BARKE DAILY
rm
MES
VOL. XX NO. 101.
HARRIS, VERMONT, MONDAY, JULY 17, 19KJ.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
TH
K
FRENCH MAKE
SMALL GAINS
Germans Made Two Attacks
in Lorraine, Both of Which
Were Repulsed by French
HEAVY LOSS TO
THE GERMANS
In Raid Made on a Trench in
the Champagne Occupied
by Russian Troops
FIVE KNOWN DEATHS
AND HUNDREDS
ARE HOMELESS
Paris, July 17. Tlie Germans made
two attack in Lorraine last night, both
of which the war office saya were re
pulsed. Attacks were delivered at a
point south of Xomeney, west of Fleury.
The French made some progress, tak
ing three machine puns.
A raid on a trench in Champagne occu
pied by Russian troops was met success
fully by a counter attack, causing heavy
loss to the Germans.
Un the Verdun front the night was com
paratively quiet, except in the vicinity of
hill 304, where rihY tiring was brisk.
BRITISH CAPTURE
GERMAN TRENCH
Strengthening New British Line in Vi
cinity of Posieres Otherwise
Situation Unchanged.
British front in France, via London,
July 17. The British to-day captured a
German trench in the neighborhood or
Posieres, strengthening the new British
line in tin's viciuitv. The British also
cleared out the nests of Herman machine
gun operators, who had been holding out
in cellars and behind barricades in the
ruins of Ovillers and Laboiselle. Other
wise the situation along the British front
was unchanged at non to-day.
London, July 17. The Herman second
line position northwest of Pazcntinle -Veit
wood have been captured by the
'British in a stormy attack, the war of
fice announced to-da The positions,
captured in what the statement charac
terizes as a further important success,
extend over a front of 1.500 yards. A
stronghold position at Waterloo farm, j
east of Longeva, was captured by the
British, while the remaining strongholds
of the Germans in Ovillers and Laboieellc
were also taken.
Unprecedented Rains in North and South
Carolina Sweep Away Lives and
Property.
Atlanta, Ga., July 17. Serious floods
in North Carolina, South Carolina and
Virginia yesterday caused five known
deaths, rendered hundreds homeless, dam
aped property and crops to the extent of
$0,0iMI,(HI0, according to first estimates.
and demoralized railway, telegraph and
telephone communication, hollowing the
hurricane that struck the south Atlantic
coast Thursday unprecedented rains have
fallen, driving rivers and snr.iller streams
from their banks and imperilling many
ives.
The French Broad river has broken
from its course near Abbeville, flooding
factories and homes in the lower part of
the citv. At Baltimore three persons,
Captain J. C. Lipe, Miss Nellie Lipe and
Mrs. I.co Miilholland were drowned when
the Line house whs flooded. The Vander-
hilt estate at Biltmore was not damaged.
Two persons were drowned at Asheville
while trying to get food to flood refugees
in the second story of the (ilen Rock ho
tel. Many nre marooned in their resi
dences along the river and rescue parties
for hours have attempted to reach them.
Swift stream ar flowing down some
of the streets of lower Asheville. The
southern railway station is flooded to a
depth of six feet, as are all other build
ings in tint vicinity. The city proper
was without lights last night but other
wise was not affected.
Throughout western Xorth Carolina
the situation ia reported serious. Two
dams at Ilendersonville collapsed, releas
ing hundreds of tons of water and fears
are felt for the big dam at Lake Tox
away.
CREDITS BILL
NOW A LAW
Measure Recently Passed by
Congress Signed by Presi
dent Wilson
QUEER FREAKS
BY LIGHTNING
Struck House of Charles Morriay in Wa-
terbury and Traveled All Over It
Without Injury to Occupants
or Setting House Afire.
Waterbury. July 17. Lightning plave
curious prHiiks in the house of Charles
Morrisr on Terry hill, about three and
half miles from Wateiimry village, last
night at about midnight. The lightning
struck the roof, entered a large upstair
room in which Mr. and Mrs. Morrisy
slept, left its marks on the wall and floor
under the bed, cut out all the glass in
A PPL A Tin AnTTflN the window near the bed, passed through
me noor 10 me riury neiow ana tore
laths and plaster troni the walls, burned
off the wire holding pictures and letting
them fall to the floor and apparently
parsed out of the house not two feet
away from a bed occupied by Mr. Mor
risy'a brother, and destroyed a large elm
tree standing on the lawn. In all its
wanderings no one of the occupants, of
the house was touched or injured and
neither did it set the house nfire. The
damage to the property ' estimated at
close to $200. Insured in the. ermont
GROUP OF VISITORS
President Makes Short Ad
dress Telling of Benefits
of Measure
TWO KILLED IN AUTO.
Fall River Man and Unknown Woman
Lose Lives.
I'lalnfield, Conn., July 17. Arthur K.
Parks, treasurer of the Bay State Shel
lac company of Fall River, Mass., and a
woman whose identity has not been de
termined were killed to-day when their
automobile struck a passenger train.
Barks' identity was established by nieam
of bank books and papers, according to a
statement from the office of the shellac
company in Fall River. Parks left Sun
day for a motor trip without giving hi
destination. The woman was not known
there.
Washington, July 17. Treudent Wil
son to-day signed the rural credits bill Mutual.
nassed reeentlv hv Congress. A croon of
senators and representatives and officer BARN AND 35 TONS
of the farmers' organizations applauded
warmly as the president affixed his sig
nature. Just bi'ore signing the measure,
winch creates a rvstem of 12 land banks
under the direction of a federal board.
the president n.aue a short address point
ing out the benefits he believes will ac
crue.
HAY DESTROYED
Fire at Waterbury Saturday Afternoon
Burned Large Barn and Contents
Belonging to George Randall.
Waterbury, Julv 17. Fire destroyed
the barn owned by t.eorge . Randall on
the old Shcple place across from the brick
. - . . n. v. w. - . '
rUKTLAJNIJ STKtitiT (JAK vrd about 1:30 Saturday afternoon
II he barn contained 30 to 3.) tons of hay
The cause of the fire is unknown. Chil
dren mid been playing in the barn pre
vious to the outbreak of the fire. Its lo
cation near the railroad makes catching
from sparks quite plausible. The fire
department quickly responded and in a
short time had a good stream of water
on the barn. Its connection with the
timiwa made oflvinrir th . Imiian mote a
I'ortland, .Me., July 17.-1 he street car prohem, but owing to the fact that tb
Company Conceded All Demands and
Agreed to Conference or Arbitra
tion to Settle Future
Troubles.
service was resumed to-day after an in-
buildings were recently slated made the
terruption since Wednesday caused by a TBtt,. ,,. . rr) ,-.... , flir:.r
c i.. f n..mis.. . . -. ........
rmi""J vu....-.- was thrown out at the house, windows
kind County Bower A Light Co., for the brokpn nd mwh of the furnitnre in-
reinstatement oi eigni mscnarge,, men jr,,, Mr. and Mr. John Lawrence and
and union recognition
The committee of
conciliation
child and two boarders resided in the
ni house. Mr. Randall' has insurance but
nounced that the company had conceded f ,'n ' h" , , rover the loss. Water
RUSSIANS TAKE
13,000 PRISONERS
Are Continuing Their Successful Advance
in the Region of the Lower
Lipa.
Petrograd, via London, July 17. The
Russians are continuing their successful
advance in the region of the lower Lipa
the war oflice announced to-chy. Nearly
13,000 prisoners were taken by the Bus
siaiiB yesterday in Volhynia.
MORE RUSSIAN TROOPS
ARRIVE IN FRANCE
Believed That 25,000 of the Czar's Men
Are Now on French Soil, Many of
Them in Trenches on Cham
pagne Front.
Paris, July 17. A contingent of Rus
sian troops disembarked to-day at Brest.
They will be sent to camp and later go
to the front.
This is the sixth contingent of Rus
sian troops the arrival of which has been
reported. Between April 20 and May 5
five bodies- of these troops reached Mar
seilles, after a land and sea journey of
17.500 miles from Moscow to Port Dalny,
Manchuria, and thence via the Suez ca
nal. About 25,000 men are believed to be
in these contingents.
Official communications indicate that
the Russians are now in the trenches on
the Champagne front.
No More Visitors on Deutschland.
Baltimore, Md., July 1". The an
nouncement was made this morning that
after to-morrow no more visitor would
be allowed aboard the German submarine
Deutschland. This was taken as an in
dication that the vessel would leave Bal
timore the middle of the week, but no
official would indicate the time of its departure.
all the demands and agreed to enter into
a contract with the unions by which all
future grievances will be settled by con
ference or arbitration.
was kept on the hay right along and it
wws still smouldering yesterday. Five or
six years ago Mr. Randall's large barn
in the village was burned and about a
year ago when the old creamery burned
it was filled with pressed hay belonging
in tr Kantlall. ThA wnrV nf h firA Ha
vuia s rower is increasing in norwern pRrtmf,nt Saturday was much compli
Mexico, runston Hears. mented.
San Antonio, Tex., July 17. Accounts
BANDIfjARMY GROWING.
GATES ENTERS
THE FIELD
Announces That He Will Be
a Candidate for the
Senate.
IN SEPTEMBER
PRIMARIES
Announcement Made To-day
in Columns of the St. Al
bans Messenger.
TALK OF THE TOWN
GERMAN TROOPS WITHDRAWN.
Those Under General Von Linsingwi Back
to River Lipa.
Berlin, via London, July 17. The with
drawal of the Geiman troops under Gen
eral Von Linsingen southwest of Lubek
to a point beside the river Lipa is offi
cially announced by the war office.
KAISER IN SOMME REGION.
Visits the Hospitals and Has Distributed
Iron Crosses.
London. July 17. An official telegram
from Berlin says Emperor William is
now in the Somme battle sector, accord
ing to Renter's correspondent at Amster
dam. The emperor has received reports
from the chief commander and has visit
ed the hospitals and distributed iron
crosses and made speeches, the telegram
said.
Mrs. William Sinclair of Springfield,
Mass., formerly of Barre, is passing a
month in the home of Mr. and Mrs. S.
Sinclair of Jefferson street.
Mr. and Mrs. Amadeo Tosi and son re
turned last evening to their home in
Worcester, Mass., after passing a week
at the home, of Mr. Tosi's father, Giovan
ni Tosi of Brook street.
Algot Knutson, who has been spending
a few days with his parents, Mr. and
Mrs. Andrew Knutson of South Main
street, returned yesterday to Proctor,
where he is employed in the office of the
Vermont Marble Co.
Mrs. E. A. Bugbee of Orange street,
who is Vking a three weeks' vacation
from the A. P. Abbott Co., store, left
this noon for Fitchburg, Mass., where
she will spend a few days visiting rela
tives.
Mrs. Katheryn Kellogg arrived in the
city Saturday night from her home in
Manchester, X. H., and will visit while
iiere with friends on South Main street
Mrs. Kellogg will leave the latter part
of the week for Lake Dunmore, where
she will spend a few days in camp.
The fountain in City square gave up
perch, bull pout, trout, minnows nd a
hermit mud turtle this forenoon when
water department employes gave the ba
sin a much needed clean up. Since early
summer fishermen returning home w ith a
plethora of hnnv game have been accus
tomed to dump their excess finh into the
little park aquarium. rule the clean
up campaign was in progress the tenants
hid a water pail all to themselves and
were restored to the fountain afterward
The regular meeting of Granite City
lodge, 1. U. (). Jj., M. V., was held Friday
evening. July 14. in K. ,of C. hall, and
the following officers were installed by
District Deputy Etta Barton, assisted by
Margaret Eraser, both of Victor lodge,
Grjniteville. The following officers were
elected: P. X. G., Jane Geals; X. G.,
Christine Walker; V. G., Alice Gilbert
son; Chap., Maria Watt; Treae., Jo
sephine Rizzi; Per. Sec, Helen Stephens;
Col. Sec.., Armidi Bianchi; warden, Han
nah Thomas; Cond., Florence Bottigi; I.
G Marv Broggini; O. G., May Dale;
pianist, Bertha Dale; R. S. to X.G., Nel
lie Bianchi; L. S. to X: O., Eleanor Faulk
ner; R. S. to V. G.. Ina Morrison; L. S.
to V. G., Linda Veale. After the meeting
refreshments were served and a dance
followed. Miss Gladys Rhind furnished
music for the dancing.
HEBERT & LADRIE EMPLOYES PICNIC.
Men and Their Families Made Merry at
Dewey Park Saturday Afternoon.
Employes and members of the firm of
of increased numbers of bandits in north
ern Msmieo, wouth of the Big Bend dis
trict, and repetitions of reports of Villa's
growing strength were the outstanding
featured in official and unofficial infor
mation that reached General Funston Hrbm Udrjo made merrr at their
yesterday. I mler nis direction the
annual nir.nl, unA n a ma a of TUunp riarL
strengthening of the border patrol, espe- Satllrlllv aft(Tnoon. Kine weather fa
cially in the Big Bend country, was con- vored tn( mo,.p athlptic mmllhers of the
tinned. Pennsylvania troops yesterday .riPi i aj ,nro :...
had taken stations along the Rio Grande Bbk, ouU ot havp
south of Marathon and a squadron of intPrest (.P,ltpmi around the .baseball
Texas cavalry reaehed Marfa from first of , SIM,rtinp fpatules, the
where it will be sent to the border line. marripd mPn limnjf llp in the ar(lna
General Bershing reported that from aj,ainH the ,1. T)iat the benedicts
Mexican sources he had been informed .,,, trillmpll was a fOTPf:nnP
that among the recaptured tarranza sifm hut thp p was hov p,,,,,,,,,,!
prisoners there were 17 whoe right ears anA t)l( g(.orp , to (iop( nnt'in(lipilte it
had been cut off by ilia s men Reports pWpiipss, XhP teams ned up as fed
from. Big Bend were that at various ,.. r.,r;j t t,;ik tt w;i.
places not far south of the border small , . n ni ' F !..; u p
groups of bandits were operating, al- j,,;,, 2, w Menard rf. C. Fernende.
though there was no evidence any of (.f A(lpb( ,f (; Rllbnl(.ah(l p. in lp m.n
them were planning an early raid into R rdgett 3b. Dick Bizzoz.ero p, A.
American territory. , R 0 K . , ,r lb K
IN BANKRUPTCY COURT. "lJ'SlZi" C
. ........ .... . .....
.. . . . . , zozzero's wildness and Williams' superior
Pearl R. Slayton of Hardwick Owes $6,- twirling may have had something to do
$564.23 and Has Asaeta of $4,923. with the tal'y.
Rutland, July lfi.-Pearl R. Slayton of npr R(,"rp"8 resulted as follows: Girls'
FLardwick, a merchant, has filed a peti- (1 3 .vr"r!0. ,M,1BS UU T
tion in bankruptcy with Herk F. S. Piatt " "n"ma - U" years, i..a
of the United State court, having li Stu"rt lst- Miss il hams 2d; women s
creditors. His attorneys are Dutton & race. Mrs .1. Ladne 1st. Mrs. F. ill.ams
Mulcahv. The total liabilities are $.- 21- Mrs- Xv- Iu'harme 3d; boys race (12
f.64.23 and he has assets of $4,923 with 'pa" Thomas Dion 1st. (.. Clark d;
boys' race (14 yenrsi t,. foien 1st, rt.
Expected entries in the race for the
L'nited States Senate increased to-day
when Governor Charles W. Gates kf
Frinklin announced himself a candidate,
making it, a three-cornered contest, with
Senator Carroll K. Page of Hyde Park
and ex-Governor Allen M. Fletcher as the
other principals in what promises to be
one of the hottest senatorial fights ever
staged in Vermont. Those politically
wUe in the state have been scanning the
horizon for signs of the governor's ap
pearance in the race for weeks, but not
until the executive made a statement
over his own signature in The Messenger
of St. Albans to-day did it become known
that he was more than a potential candi
date.
From the outset it was evident that
the junjor senator from Vermont would
be a candidate to succeed himself. The
appearance of ex-Governor Fletcher was
predicted long ago and both have been
avowed candidates for some little time
now. Governor Gates statement lists
him as an out and out candidate nnd
hoever else appears in the rills' before
the September primaries may be de
scribed as, dark horse. Most people are
inclined to the belief that no additional
Republican candidates will be declared.
St. Albans, July 17. The Messenger
in its news columns to-day, will contain
the following statement from Governor
Charles W. Gates:
Xumerous requests have come to me
during the last lew months, and especial
lv during the last two weeks, that I be
come a candidate for the office of United
States senator. Until recently I have
not been inclined to treat these requests
seriously, but having become satisfied
that they represent the honest wish of a
ewuiderable number of voters in different
parts of the state. I have, after careful
consideration, decided to allow, my name
to appear on the ballots at the coming
primary election as a Republican candi
date for the United State Senate. I
shall appreciate the support of all those
who have confidence in my integrity of
purpose and who feel that I, if nominat
ed and elected, would creditably represent
Vermont in the Pnited States Senate."
(Signed) "Charles W. Gates."
IOWANS VISIT
BAKRE QUAKRIES
Thirty-Five Visitors fram Western State
See How Barre Granite ia Quarried,
Moved and Made Into
Memorials.
ARRESTED IN
NEW YORK
Eusebio Abano
Brought P
Bar
to
Being
A party of ;)." lowsns, men and wom
en, and.over half of them schoolteachers.
were taken this morning over Jones
Brother' granite plant aud up to Mill
stono hill, where they inspected the
Wet more Morse, K. L. Smith and
Routwell, Milne and Varnum' quarries,
under the leadership of the Barre Board
of Trade.
The party arrived late lust night and
this ni'Tiiing after looking over the Cap
ital fit v, came up to Jones Brothers
plant by a special electric car. H. J. M.
lones personally conducted them throie'li
the work. A specUUv hnrtered train ! Mtisf. Ansu'Pr tft Phnrrro of
s waiting for them on the Montpelier I , . . .
and Wells River road, when they canuj
out. and they were taken at once to tlm
quarries. There the first stop wa made
at the Wetmore and Morse quarry, I
where they all enjoyed a ride mi the
grout cars out to the end of the big
waste piles from which a splendid view
can be had of the sui roundinif quarries I
I . , . . c . i. l : , i . , ' j I
aim inure oisiHiii oi me nuts or ei unini.. j (,,... a c.r.. f... ... , ;. . .:
rhe trains next stop was at the h. L. I ' . , h
Smith company quarry, and there tliej""'"01 lo "1K y which tooK
party observed the quarryworkers at ! place on Webster avenue Sunday, July 2.
lose hand in the process of getting out Even as the story of his detention has
ine ijig oiocKs.
Sc Varnum quarry,
was made, noml lines were ual
the pond close bv and 1ouqiiets w eitfi street, Barre, has been imprisoned in
presented to each of the women. Atthe'Xew York, pending arrangement for
FOR SHO' .&NG ON
WEBS7ER AVENUE
Shooting Luigi Caruti
on July 2.
On this humid day in dogberry July
the police turned loose a cold i-torage
At the Routwell, Milne bcPn ,.,.,., gi 1)y an 0,fu.ial paI1
irrv, where the last stop i , . '
d "lilies were gathered iuiof 8P,Tpr-v' tuaebio Albana of Howard
by and 1ouquets w eitfi street, Barre, has been imprisoned in
eh of the women. AtthelXew York, pending arrangements, for
switchback on the return trip the party! his extradition and return to this city
had an opportunity to see how the heavy ). , '
trainlnaxls of stone are brought down off
the hill, a train of 11 cars passing them
at that point.
Arriving at Barre at 12 o'clock, the
party was invited to be the guests of
the Board of Trade at a dinner in ifo-
to answer to charge of shooting with
intent to kill Luigi Caruti. Officer Hairy
Gamble, i returning to Barre with the
man and the pair will probably arrive ia
the city late this afternoon.
Aitvtnos arrest in .New ork wa
BOY DROWNED
IN LAKE MOREY.
tel Barre. After dinner they returned j brought about last Tuesday when Officer
m .uoniH-iier, wnere iney iiiuk uie -1 (.amble, who w ent to the metropolis ear
lier in the week, and a sergeant of de
tectives attached to the police force of
the greater city went to an Italian quar
ter and took the alhged assailant m
custody on the eve of his departure or
Italy. Albano subiiiittod tamely to hw
detention and was locked up while
State's Attorney F. E. Gleason was pre-
o'clock train over the Wells River road.
The low-ana are being conducted on
their tour of the Fast by Wilbur L.
Clapp, secretary of "the B. Y. T. U. of A.,
and minister of the First Baptist church
in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. They gather
at tliicago on Julv 11 and went from
there to Detroit, Mich., then to Buffalo,
.Niagara, loronto and down the m. iJw-iparing affidavits for the New York au
rence. They travel in their own chartered thorities. Two hearings were held before
sleeping coaches and in most places
spend their night in these. This nttet
noon they left by way of Wells River
and White River Junction for Wood-
the assistant judges of Washington coun
ty and the testiiiiyny of a number of
witnesses was forwarded to Xew York in
the form of affidavits. After the signs-
stock. From there they will go to the ture of Gov. C. W. Gates had been ap
White mountains. I'ortland, Old Orchard, prnded to the application for extradition
noston, ew iorK, rnnaneipnia ami .At
lantic City, spending several days in the
larger places, and return to Chicago Au
papers, the matter had to be referred
to Gov. Whitman ' of Xew York. Itia
said that Albano exiiressed his willin?-
gust 2. where they will disperse and j nP6S t return to Barre immediately aft-
Ladrie 2d. L. Bonleriee 3d; men's race.
$1,403 claimed exempt.
A TtAf ilinn lifla a!u Tvian ninn Kv I'll.
gene A. Chase of St. Albans, a laborer, I'- al" J?t; ' r. iiimms .ki.
who owes .247.7o Bnd 'claims that his M" ihmuhoi ar mi up ,-.m
fls.t of Sinn . ll .vemnt n'" the French and Irish, each team won
. , , .
imp ihiii.h
T it tufa 5 it TW TtV iTH? there was an aounaance or retresn-
ments Tor old and younsr and an orcnes
Epidemic of Infantile Paralysis Checked .r" consisting of Mrs. F. BKmlcrice Mr.
nirWHH 111 Jll. iiiiinn lilllliniit'u UiU
ia n vaKca. , jp for rIam.in xhe rommittee of the
Xew York, July 17. A further de- I whole was made up as follows: R. O
crease in the number ot deaths and ot Keete, t. Ijinjrcvin. r.. .i. uroum. v . wn
new cases in the epidemic of infantile pa- charme, J. ladrie. K. J. Dion and F. Wil-
ralvsis was renirted bv the health de
partment to-dflv. During the 24 hour
ending at 10 o'clock this morning 14
hildren died and tlj new cases were re
ported.
EAST MONTPELIER CAMPMEETING.
Good Attendance at Sunday Services
Former Montpelier Pastor a Speaker.
Lignite Production Increased.
$30,000,000 A DAY
Is Cost of War to the British at Present
Time.
London. July 17. The British expendi
tures have now reached a totl of more
than fi.OOO.iW daily, according to a
Mutement by Reginald McKenna. chan
cellor of the exchequer, in the House of
Commons to day.
Fast Montpelier, Julv 17. On Satur
day afternoon, Rev. O. J. Harvli of West
port Factory, Mass., was the preacher at
the campmeetinj now beinir held here.
That evening Rev. X'elson B Davis of
Boston preached from the text found in
John 3:16, "For God so love I the world."
On Sunday the morniivj praver and
praise service was held nt !:3l and was
liams. Through The Times the employes
wish to think the members of the com
mittee for their efforts in making the
pif5 a success.
SWEDISH PICNIC.
very interestinff. Rev. O. .t. Harvli I dancinp.
preached at 10:3", his subject being, "Our
Father which art in heaven. .Matt. 6:9.
The sermon was powerful, being on mis
sions. In the afternoon. Rev. D. W.
Steffeld of Stoneham, Mass., presiding
elder of the Xew England conference of
the Evangelical church, was the preacher,
his subject bein? "Jacob and the Angel."
Another Chapter in Casement Fight.
London. July 17. A new chapter
opened to-day in Sir R?er Casement's
lecal Cght against being executed for
bih treason tV.r activities in the Dnihl:n
The production of lipnite in Xorth Da
kota in 1915, according to the United
States geological survey, amounted to
52.07S tons, an increase of 21JW3 tons.
or 4 per cent, as compared with 1014.
The output of 1315 wa valued at $76ti,
072. Practically all the lignite mined in
Xorth Dakota is usd within the state,
and nearly half of it is eonumed at the
place of production, not even being load
ed on railroad cars. The increase in pop
ulation is followed by greater use of
ooal. and although lignite, except in the
remoter district, is not largely used fur
domestic fuel, the - industries, such us
brhk making, that do use lignite rejas far distant a the northern part of
(Trowing, and with their growth the pro- i the state and from Xew Hampshire.
duction of lignite has increased steadily, j Sunday evening Rev. J. E. Taylor of
There were 530 men emplovH in the I Montpelier conducted a social wrvic nd
mining of licnite in Xorth Dakota in 'afterward Rer. Xelson B. Da rs delivered
Held Most Successful Outing at Shep
ard's Grove on Saturday.
Shepard's grove made an excellent set
ting for the annual outing of the Swed
ish Order of Yasa Saturday afternoon,
when manv members of the fraternity
and their guests assembled for a basket
picnic' and games. There were diversions
for old and young and an abundance of
refreshments, consisting of ice cream,
soft drinks, sandwiches and confection
ery. After the athletic events there was
Canoe Capsized When Short Distance
from Shore and William Hall, Aged
14, of Orford, N. H., Lost
Life.
Fairlee. July 17. William Hall, the
14-year-old son of Mr. aoid Mrs. W. B.
Hall of the Indian pond district, Orford,
X. H.. was drowned at 8:45 Saturday
evening at I-ake Morey.
Young Hall, together with Harry Hos-
mer, started from the Casino for a canoe
trip; but when they were but a short
distance from the landing the canoe cap
sized. Two men: seeing the accident,
went out in a boat and rescued Hosmer,
but when the body of Half was recovered
all attempts at resuscitation were unsuccessful.
leave for their separate homes.
Mr. Clapp, their leader, is a Vermont-
er by birth, having been born in Wood
stock, where he has two brothers at
present.
The party consisted of the following:
Mrs. C. C. Peehn, Xora Springs, Theresa
Davis, Waterloo, Mrs. Flora Clark,
Waterloo, Alvs M. Knaul, Dennison, Jes
sie Limes, Dennison, Eugenia Slocum,
rme. Myrtle M. Roebson, Des Moinep,
Xell Thomas, Magnoketa, Mrs. C. E.
Ward, Humboldt. Mary Micr, Xova
prings. Lois Slocum, Ames, Alma
E. Johnston, Columbus Junction, Canie
Moore, Ced.ir Rapids, Donald W. Clarp,
Cedar Rapids, Mr. and Mrs. Wilbur L.
Clapp, Cedar Rapids, Edna McVey, Green,
Esther W. Anell. Iowa City, Maud Hel-
mick, Webster City, Mae Bnhrenfuss,
Webster Citv, Frieda E. Brown, Lamont,
Hazel M. Retz, Marrie G. Smith, Water
loo, Mary E. I.unay, Dannison, Laura G.
Juel, Barkersburg, Floy Cook, Van Me
loo, Mary E. Lunay, Dennison, Laura G.
kins, Waterloo, Myrtle R. Edson, Ced,ir
Rapids, Esther W. Anell. Iowa Citv, Mae.
H. Trevor, Cogon, Mrs. Edward Luckiesh,
Magnoketa, and Lillian Proushek, Cedar
Rapids, all of Iowa, and Mrs. L. G.
Ferguson of Indianapolis. Ind.
CAR SKIDDED AND
TURNED TURTLE
DEAF MAN KILLED BY TRAIN.
Races resulted as follows: I-adies, rsce.
Mrs. Paul Hedwall 1st. Mrs. Carl Win
ncrstrnnd 2d. Miss Mna Olson 3d: men's
race, Edward Johnson I-t. Arvid Blad 2d.
Arthur Carlson Id: ft men's race. Paul
Hedwall lt, Harry Faserstrom 2d; boys'
race. Albert .bhnon lt, Harrv Johnson
2d, Thomas Hendrkkon 3d; little girls'
Charles Cram, Aged 21, Killed Saturday
Night at Vergennes.
Vergennes, July 17. The Xew York
sleeper, which passes through this citv
about 11:20 p. m., struck and instantly
killed Charles Cram Saturday night. The
body, which was horribly nianirled, wits
not found until about '1 o'clock yester
day morning. Mr. (Yam, who was 2!
years of age, was very deaf and the ac
cident occurred on a curw.
Mr. Cram was walking on the tra.k
near Tupper's crossing towards Ferris-
bnrg, where he had employment on the
farm of illiam I.arow. A strong south
wind was blowing at the time, which
would have tended to deaden the sound
of the whistle and prevent the man's
hearing even if he had not been deaf.
The body was stumbled onto by Heman
Uni kham and William Duggan, who were
walking the track. They notified the
telegraph operator at the station, who
called Dr. t. t. Phelps of this city, physi.
cian for the railroad. Dr. Phelps found
the body in a badly mutilate. 1 condition.
Death must have been instantaneous.
Permission was obtained from the select,
men and the body was taken to W. E.
Larow's undertaking rooms in Ferris
burg. where an examination of the
Antonio Broggi of Summer Street Had
Arm Badly Cut and Elbow Dislo
cated in Sunday Auto Accident.
er his arrest, but the extradition laws in.
Xew York made it necessary to secure
an indictment in that state.
The Barre police gained their first in
formation of Albano's whereabout froiu
a tip received anonymously at headquar
ters. The chief got into communication,
with tiie Xew York police with the re
sult that the man was located beforj
Officer Gamble was dispatched on hi
mission last week. He made his second
trip to Xew York Saturday for the pur
pose of returning with Albano.
Although the victim of the shooting is
making good progress toward recovery,
the assailant's daring prompted the po
lice to go the limit in attempting to rind
Albano. From the time the man ran the
length of Xorth Main street Sunday
morning until a working clue was dis
covered a week after his disappearance,
the officers had no knowledge of his
whereabouts. Authorities in surround
ing towns were notified to be on the look
out and all trains were watched, as it
was surmised that Albano would head,
for a seaport in order to reach Italy.
The crime for which Albano is heid
accountable was committed at Mrs. Al
bano's home, 9 Webster avenue, where
the victim, Caruti. was a boarder. Al
bano, it is claimed, had been living on
Howard street since he separated from
his wife in 1915. On the Sunday morn
ing when the shooting took place, Al
bano left Howard street soon after S
o'clock and headed for Webster avenue.
From the fact that his hat was found in
a boat tied to the east shore of Steven
branch in the south end. the police sur
mised that he crossed the stream In the
boat. Enterintr Mrs. Albano's house, h
engaged in a war of words with Caruti
A Ford touring car operated bv Ra-'" the Kiu-i.en. u nen i arm! raise,! ms
phael Gay of Barre turned turtle in the! arm. t is stated, to forfend what be
highway 'near the old refervoir on the! feared was to be a pistol shot, Aluano
East Barre road Sunday nfternoon about discharged his gun, the bullet entering
2:30 o'clock. In the cur were Mr. Gay. ' '" arm. pa.-ea inrougu ui
Frank Calcagni, a mm by the name of "mb, and then ploughed a supernciai iur-
her daughter were in the garden when
Beattic and Antonio Broggi of Summer
street. All escaped any vcrv serious in
juries except Broggi. who received a bad
wound on the arm and a dislocated elbow.
The car was damaged to the extent of a
broken windshield, a broken top and
broken mudguards.
As the automobile was returning to
Barre from Woodsville. X. H., it met a
team driven bv Jerry Owrr of the east
hill, who was accompanied by Mrs. Carr.
At thi point in the highway there is a
sharp bend, making it impossible for a
driver to see anv great distance ahead.
On seeing the team, which was bound to
ward East Barre, Mr. Gav put on the re
verse, but he was going with such speed
that the rear end of the car skidded
the shooting occurred. Albano dropped
his gun and fled.
At police headquarters this morning it
was, thought that Officer Gamble pot
away with his man sometime in the
night and t hat he would arrive in Barr
over the Central Vermont railroad thU
afternoon at 4:35 o'clock. Albano will
be given a preliminary arraignment be
fore Magistrate H. . Scott in city
court.
TALK OF THE TOWN
Miss Gwendolyn Pitkin and Miss Jes
sie Mi Lean went to Xorthfield this morn-
nrntmrt and turned turtle. tlirnillC once !
and a half over and sfoppinc under the ! g for an indefinite stay,
nose of the horse driven bv Mr. Carr. I Mrs. Mary Starr has returned to Barre
who had control of the animal, so that after a two months' vacation and is stop
the occupants of the carriage were not j P'"g tor the present at 24 Jefferson
throw n. , street.
Dr. J. H. Woodruff was summoned and I Mi's Theresa Bianchi returned to hfr
Mr Bropei. who had received a bad cutjhome on Summer street Saturday even
on the tWh of tli- arm. had his wound 1 i"g after attending the summer scuoul
jhound and was rushed to the Barre Cify't ( astMon.
I .Miss t.sther ti. Hits oi rnrK street leic
1 . . 1 V 1, - V, ., 1 1. : t.. .tt.na.1
clothe revealed a paper in one Pkct ;,',,.... . to ;t i.,.- thin morning for Great -heheagne Island.
.Me., where she will sp-n-j scteiai wees
Rev. Mr. StaffeM wae. pastor of the 'race. Edna Winnerstrand lt. Lillian
Montpelier Evanpelical church a few j Winnerstrand 2d. Rita Hendrickson 3d;
years ago and was warmly welcomed at ifrtrls' race. Florence Sellherp 1st, I.illim
the ramp. Among thos present were j I apertrom 2d, Hren-e iuhert-.i .id
people from Barre and Montpelier and
many from the surrounding towns, even
mensureablv due to the dilipenc of the
1P15 for an average of 213 days, as com
pared with 5.V men for 216 day in 131.
The average output per man per day was
a strong sermon. This morning at 10:30
Rer. A. .1. Back preached.
The ervits are t continue thmugh-
with the name of John P. Preston of
Ferrisburg. Mr. Preston was communi
cated with and identified the body as that
of Cram. Ijiter hia brother. Ira Cram,
identified the body and accompanied the
remains to Lincoln. Cram was not mar
ried, and both parents are deceased.
Will Not Patrol Coast.
Washington. D. "., July 17. American
in the day.
TALK OF THE TGWN
in a ladies' ramp.
The condition of Mis Flora M Donald
of Bassett street, who was removed from
the train in Mi.ntpelier one night la?t
Mr. and Mrs. George Fb.rkee returned," p" 0" hsp.tal after
to the.r home in Tunbridge this morning coming from Sugar Hi.l. N. H., i de-aft-r
stopping for several days at te I fsxorahle. M... M. Donald
home of Mr. and Mrs. W. A Drew Pf j '"'"""'ed to an rrit.r.n Iri.Iay n.gM.
Averiil street. I R. B. Cranial! po-t. o. ."?. Grun.l
Miss Alice Lea, w ho hss been visit ing ! Army ot the l.cp il.li. . nss vo'.e l an ;;p-
mmmittu mhn saw to it that all ar
r.n,.f. re carefully carripH out. ! warships will nt patrol the VirginU
The personnel of the committer was . coast to see that allied cruisers a wait in ! friends in the city for the past month. !propr:tt;on of "') t tie soldicrV ninii.-follow-s:
(War -Ionnon. Andrew Frieberg j 'he reappearance of the Deut vhlati J ; left this morning" for Rurlington. bere;ment fu-id in B.ure Action proidm
and Carl Matton. Mr. 0fr Borph, i tay out the three-mile limit. Secretary she will visit relatives for a hort tim;tor the appro'.-ia-Tn was iicn .t in
Mr. Fagerstrom and Mrs. Carl Hendnrk- jlanie!s said today that the United before going t her home in ChiT, X. V. ' regular meeting of the pot in t'ie Grar.i
n " j State assumed that it territorial limit j Miss Frances' Ladd of Baltim-re. Md j Army mom at city la!! Sattirdiy aiter-
'would not he violated by allied veel- arrived in the city Saturday and dl,n-n. Tbf wmernl i d'-ign i tu vom-
fonr tonnd for the rear ton. ajont the eek daily at 10:30 a. m 2:301 TW Ee. ln pwnk- rooimittee will and he bad no fear that the Ileut. bland jM-it while here at the homes of her ,' memor-te the .,e-i ,-il N y o: l..rri
r.olt u l .n .,. ,...k I v , ..,r At -. A.- .n.1 a. ni f.-,e n,t -.m n . r,l .1 ,r..,...,., u f .rh! at . :Vi in t in IVordxn oiM w attacked Dcfofe rsjuur tlie brt.te.rrs. t. U. iJidd ot riankl.n strett wo server i .ij..T au-i Ui.or. Jl u;
cf criminal appeal, f-he rear in IPU, tAteaied to ail to atteni. aDte-ruom. . tigj acaa.
anl iUmer Ladi of Orange .trecU
war ui li
