. i ''lit. .', '. .";'
DAILY EDITION
VOU VI., No. KM.
GRANTS FASS, JOSEPH I XE COUOTrY, OREGON, MONDAY, JULY 17,
WHOLE NUMBER 17M.
No Other Town in the World the Size of Grants Pass Has a Paper With Full Leased Wire Telegraph Service,
- f- .
, , , , , .,.,. ''', ,. , ... , .'. :, ."
if
1RETEU1
TRENCHES
TAKEN
Britons Cosfcac Progress
Abg the Western Frost,
While in tie East the Rus
sians Maintain Advantage
,,, ir" ft fluUer boom and pretty daughter.
tortned and captured German aecond Tna boon, u to nominate William
line position on a front of 1,500 Sulzer. of New York. The daughter
lard In a continuation of the steady jl delegate from Arizona, who could
4rlve north of the 8oiume. General not ot lMt b"
Ilalg reported this afternoon. t aroimn. -
I Mlnshaw and Chaffln are duo for
The advance was made northwest cUsn tomorrow, when the project of
of Hantiue-U-Petlt woods, which Is ,f hanging the name of the party Is
now In the bands of the British, and B,Bted for , ,re-conventlon session.
Dressed the British line forward to gom t0M fI0r lD9 name
the teryedgee of MarUnpulch village. ..Amerleiin arty ,nd ..Xt.
one of the German strongholds de- tional ptrty,- wuts a platform based
fending ilapaume. (on Issues other than suffrage and
The German 'war office admitted . prohibition. Chaffln gets all heated
this afternoon that the British have up when interviewers make the pro
made further progress towsrd the Ira- po8Bl ind ftBjkg .
portent highway town of Poleres. Rising $1,000,000 and mobilizing
penetrating Ovlllers wood, southwest 5,000.000 votcra Is also due for.dls
otPoaleres, where heavy fighting con- euMton tomorrow,
tlnue. The Berlin official statement -paM t0 run Henry Ford for pre
reported lively fighting west of Per- Mm Md w, 0. Calderwood. Mlnne
onne, the objective of the French tpojlg for vice-president, were all
rmles, though ,th? Ftetc.h war office mtiesed up today when Calderwood
was silent on the French operations
aouth of the 8omme.
The British left flank, near Or- intimated his disinclination to run as
Tillers and I BolseJIe. made further vice-president with Ford.
Trogrees. capturing the remaining Presidential timber today narrow
ntrongholds and the "brave rem- dow (o ex0vernor Foss of
nants" of a German garrison. Gen-' Massachusetts, Wm. Sulser of New
eral Halg reported. York. J. Frank Hanly and 8. W.
At the aame time, the right flank, luine of Indiana,
advancing eaet of Longneval village, I
captured the Waterlot farm, further
widening the breach to the German
econd line. V
Reports of the new British success
only slightly overshadowed the news
of allied victories on the esstern
front. The Germs n war office this
afternoon officially admitted that
-General von Llnslnten'a ttaht wine In '
"Volhynla had been compelled to re- "nf appealroni his conviction of
treat behind the Ltpa river. The treason, carrying with It the desth
Russian war office reported the cap- luH-. rgued before Justice
ture of 13.000 prisoners In Tester.''!!" 'odr. associate Justices
day's fighting In Volhynla. lot tho ourt ot criminal appeal today.
Casement's counsel argued that
OREGON' COAST ARTILLERY ' th actions described In the Indlct
OOMPANOa ARE IV CAMP went did not constitute a statutory
. jOffnnse. He argued further that the
Fort Stevens. Ore., July 1 7. Near- definition of treason given to the Jury
ly 700 militiamen today began a two y Lord Chief Justice Reading was
weeks' grind of living like regular
soldiers. Under command of C. C
Hammond, eight companies of const.
artillery, Oregon national guard, are: PRICK FOR ADVANCE
encamped here today to spend the ! -
next fortnight practicing with the Berlin, via Sayvllle, July 17. 'Rus
coast defense equipment at the mouth elan losses In killed alone since the
Of the Columbia Tiver. 'beginning of the present offensive,
Although the coast artillery com-J from June 4 until July 1, total more
panles are not recruited up to war ( than 262,000, the semi-official news
strength, as the war department 're- anency estimated today,
cently ordered, there are more men In j "According to offiolal reports Is
the two battalions here today than sued at Petrograd since the begin
on any prevloua summer's encamp- jnlng ot the Russian offensive until
went. Two of the companies are July 1. the killed Include 14,900 of
from Eugene. The others are from 'fleers, among them 17 generals and
Ashland, Roseburg. Albany, Cottage 29 regimental commanders, and 248,
Orove, Medford and Portland, with ' 000 men," the news agency stated.
canitary aetaenmoni rrom kobo
brg.
'PORTLAND MAMMAS SEND
GOODIES TO SOLDI EU ROYS
.Portland, July 17. High school
boys In th Oregon militia at the
Mexican border will be distinguished , Forest Grove, Ore.' and Albany col
from their comrades by the number liege at Albsny Into one Presbyterian
of luxuries they csn afford.
Having entered a vigorous protest
against their eons betnir taken to the
border, parents of more than a score
of the school boys today planned to
-Bhower the lads with luxuries As, merged Into onft',non-sectarlan coi
a vtorter they will send S2B0 ft month lrge'but are opposed to any plan to
"regularly to the machine gun com- make the consolidated school a sec
pany of the Third Oregon Infantry, tarlan one. Rejplutloui to this effect
In which most of the high school boys were adopted throughout Oregon yes-
ra enlisted. terday. . .'(v -t ,
I FUSING WITH
QQQSERS FOR THE
St. Paul, July 17. ProhlbltionliU
won't fuse with progressive! la the
letter's post-eeaeon series at Chicago
August 6, Eugene W. Chaff) n laid to
day. Chaffln, who was prohibitionist
presidential candidate la 1908 and
1112,' arrived from Tucson today,
He launched an attack at V. 0.
Ulnahaw for carrying on several
weeks' correspondence with John M.
Parker, looking forward to pro
gressive-prohibition amalgamation.
and then announced be would tup port
Ulnahaw if nominated.
Ptej jrord', statement that he would
.not run. Calderwood had previously
ARGUE SIR ROGER
I CASEMENT'S APPEAL
London, July 17. Sir Roger Case
inaccurate
UISSIAXH PAY HKAVV
MERGER OF COLLEGES
FAILS' TO WIN APPROVAL
Portland, July 1 7. Nearly every
Congregational church In the state
was on record today In opposition to
a plan to merge Pacific university at
school. Pacific university was found
ed In 1848 by the ppngregatlonaiists
Eight years nn6 'it was made non
sectarian. The Congregatlonallsts
are willing that the, two schools be
PROHIBITIONISTS
Pres. Wilson Attaches Sig
nature to Bill Estahlbhizg
Line of Lac J Mortgage
Basks Throacst Nation
Washington, July 1. Accompany
ing the act with a speech paying
tribute to the farmers of the country,
President Wilson today signed the
rural credits bill. It provides estab
lishment ot a list of land mortgage
banks to handle long-time mortgage
loans to fsrmers. '
On Invitation of the president,
many Interested In the Initiating of
the rural credits system were present
st Its signing. These included house
and aenate members who bad handled
the bill. Speaking before he signed
the bill, the president said:
"On occsslons of this sort there
are so many thlnga to tsy that one
would despair of saying them briefly
and adequately, but I can not go
through the simple ceremony of
signing this bill without expreselng
the feeling that I have in signing It.
It Is a feeling not only of profound
satisfaction, but of real gratitude
that we have completed this piece of
legislation, which I hope will be Im
mensely beneficial to the farmers of
the country.
"The farmers, It seems to me, have
occupied hitherto a singular position
of disadvantage. .They have not had
the same freedom to get credit on
their real assets that others have had
who were In manufacturing and com
mercial enterprises. And while they
sustained our life, they did not in
the same degree with others share
In the benefits ot that life.
"Therefore, this bill, along with
the very liberal provisions ot the fed
eral reserve act. puts them on an
equality with all others who have
genuine assets and makes the great
credit of the country available to
them.
"One can not but feel this Is de
layed Justice to them and can but
feel that it Is a very gratifying thing
to play any part In doing this act ot
Justice. I look forward to the bene
fits or this hill, not with extravagant
expectations, but with confident ex
pectations that It will be of very wide
reaching benefits and, Incidentally, It
TO. STOP SLAV
Petrograd, July 17, Profoundly
Impressed by the Russian advance,
which see-saws first at this point and
then at that, the Germans are mass
ing enormous forces before Kovel.
They are bringing up every available
reserve In the hope ot stalling the
new Russian mowing machine.
The present comparative calm Is
deemed here to be a mere prelude
to a Russian offensive ot great force.
.The fall of Kovel now would be
a staggering blow to the central pow
ers,. completely disrupting their
plans, Lemberg would be menaced
more than ever, the road to the great
fortress of Brest Lltovsk opened and
the rear of the Plnsk region threat
ened, , necessitating a German with
drawal. ." '. '
The Russians apparently do not
lack ammunition. Printed on the
cartridge cases are the phrases:
'"Don't spare bullets. Don't spare
courage. There's enough a plenty for
all." - : ' . '::'
' Cossacks from the Don, Urals,
GERMAtl REIIIFQRCEMEUTS ATTELlPT
I RUM
Department of Labor Officer
Predicts That Government
Will Take Orer Railways
If Strike Is Called
8L Louis, July 17. Declaring that
the United States government was
better prepared now than ever before
to operate the railroads ot the coun
try, J. J. Keegan, of the department
of labor, predicted today the govern
ment would take over the railroads
should the four great railroad
brotherhoods call a strike of their
members.
Keegan said that once the govern
ment took charge of the roads the
men would go to work Immediately.
He based this assertion on the fact
that the government bad long since
recognized the eight-hour day, one of
the bones of contention in the pre
sent controversy between men and
employers. ' '' ,
Keegan, who la In St. Louis as me
diator between the Missouri Pacific
and. .Its trackmen, who threaten to
tjske, would not say plans had been
I formulated to take over the roads,
fcowerer.he said that, according to his
Information, this step can not be
avoided It the men leave their post.
He said he waa practically certain
that the four brotherhoods would
vote to strike.
'But I can not conceive that either
the railroads or the brotherhoods will
let a break occur." he said. "A com
promise seems more probable. How
ever, should the; break occur and
nearly half a million men leave their
work, paralysing transportation and
threatening atarvatlon of the nation,
the government would act In 24
hours.
"It could do nothing else. Every
railroad In the country would be
seized, and once these roads passed
Into the control ot the United States
they would never again be returned
to private ownership."
will be ot advantage to the com
munity, tor I can Imagine no more
satisfactory and solid Investment than
this aystem will afford those who
have money to use.
-(Continued on Psge 4.)
fresh young giants from Siberia and
elsewhere are fighting like game
cocks, striving to outdo each other In
daredevil charges. The quarrel with
the Germans Is now personal, owing
to the Germans' use ot liquid fire and
gas. Consequently fewer German
prisoners are taken In proportion to
the number ot dead on the field.
-Russian officers appear satisfied not
only with the situation on the Russian
front but with ' the spirit of the
troops, which, they declare, was never
higher.'
JUDICIARY COMMITTEE
REPORT FAVORS HAY
-Washington, July 17. The senate
Judiciary committee today reported
favorably on the president's nomin
ation ot Congressman Hay to be Judge
ot the United States cpixrt of claims.
A iub-conrtntttee was named to con-
slder the qualifications of Judge John
H. Clarke, Cleveland, Ohio, for the
supreme bench.
ICE Oil Will
Washington, July 17. Villa Is
dead, General Pershing's troops will
be out of Mexico within a month, and
the national guard back home within
three months, a high war department
official aald today.
Villa's name Is being used by
minor leaders to inspire fear emon;
Carranzlstas, the official declared. He
said Carranza was stronger today In
Mexico than be ever had been, prin
cipally because he bad averted war
with the United States "without loss
of dignity by Mexico.''
Army men In touch with border
and Mexican Interior conditions a&!d
today there "Is not a chance in a
thousand" ot further trouble with
Mexico, either by a repetition of the
Parral and Carrlzal Incidents or by
bandit raids.
Since the Carrlzal attack was clear
ed np, and the last Carranza note re
ceived, the war department has taken
the view that the Mexican trouble is
over. Pershing's moving nis Dase
north helped Immensely, it was de
clared. Now rains have come and
threaten to necessitate" further short
ening of the lines. '
"We expect. Pershing to be out of
Mexico In a month or so," said a de
partment official today. "In three
months the national guard probably
will be back .home. v ,
"The Carranza government was
never stronger than it Is now. Sen-
Ulment has crystallised behind him
sine the recent trouble. This be
cause without loss of dignity to Mex
ico he staved off war with the United
States. Villa himself could not hurt
him for that reason.
, "Anil .Villa, according to our re
ports, Is dead. ' We believe his name
is being used by leaders to embarrass
Carranza and to inspire fear in the
Mexican people. We think he Is dead
and his cause burled with' him."
THE KAISER SAW
RETREAT AT SOMME
London. July 17. Kaiser Wilhelm j
was at the Somme front when his
army retreated under battering Brit
ish blowe In Saturday's fighting, it
became known today. An official
statement Issued at Berlin confirmed
previous reports of the kaiser's pre
sence at the front of the great Anglo-
French offensive, where he has been
visiting -his troops and Inspiring them
to a more stubborn defense. The Ber
lin etatement said that the kaiser
conferred with his chief ot ttaff and
commanding generals, ' visited the
hospitals and conferred several Iron
Crosses. : - v ; ti u. -
These dispatches showed that the
British advance carried forward the
lines .to the outskirts ot both the vil
lages ot Pozleres and Martlnpuch,
two of the most Btrongly defended
German posts before Bapaume. The
assault was begun Just before day
light on a moonlight night It fol
lowed an artillery attack which for
Intensity, If not duration, exceeded
the bombardment that marked the
beginning of the Anglo-French offen
sive two weeksi before. 1
British . guns batted out enemy
works, leaving only ruined redoubts,
from behind which German niaohlne
gunners raked the attackers until
blown to pieces by bombs.
The fighting . tor Longueval on
Friday was a bitter battle from un
derground works and cellars.
."In some of the cellars the Ger
mans fought like wolves at bay."
wired one correspondent. "Down In
the darkness of these places men
fought savagely, seeing only the glint
of each other's eyes and feeling tor
each others throats unless there were
still bombs handy to make a quicker
ending. It was primitive warfare,
cavemen fought like that In such
jdarkness, though not with, bombs,
' which belong to our own age." 1
15 IE DEAD
If PATH OF
FLOOD
Kyers Are 0:tcf Heir Eds
in North ad Scdi Caro
fca, ad Dasase cf I.!:re
Than$10,CC3,CCJRc:;rtd
AshevUle, N. C, July 17J Tve
Cincinnati-bound trains, the Carolina
special, which left here Saturday
night, and another which left last
night, are "lost" aa a result ot the
Sood which swept eastern" North Caro
lina, with the loss of 15 Uvea. All
railway and commercial telegraph
lines are down. The dead In the
flood caused by overflow of the
French broad river are:
Louise Cressler, Aaheville; Lucius
Frailer, Aaheville; J. B. Lite, Bllt
more; Charlotte Walker, Biltmore;
Mabel Foster, Biltmore; Louise Walk
er, Blltmore.
Three are dead at Hendersonvtlle,
and eix at Charlotte.
Many bridges were carried away la
the Hood and railway traffic la para
lyzed. Danger of a food famine la
Aaheville caused the local officials to
day to seize the food supply ot the
city, , " -Sy; '
More than 500 persons are home
less. The flood came so suddenly
that many had to wade from their
homes. Those drowned at Biltmore
were caught in the current and swept
away. ': .'.
. Washington, July 17. The South'
em railroad today practically eus
pended traffic south of Washington.
Reports continued to pour in telling
ot disaster from floods In North and ,
South Carolina. A second bridge on
the Chsrlotte division went out at S
a. m. Trains are unable to proceed
beyond Salisbury,' and no wires are
in operation eouth of that point, At
lanta being readied by way of Chi-
cago and New Orleans. , ;
Ten million dollars' worth ot
property deetroyed, five persons '
known to be dead, hundreds Injured "
and missing, railroad traffic and tele
graph and telephone communication -demoralized.
Is the toll of the flood
sweeping the Carolines and. Virginia vJ
known to date. Meager, disjointed
details are drifting into Washington
over the crippled Unes of communi
cation. The floods are the result of
hurricanes of wind and rain which
struck the south Atlantic coast
Thursday, lifting rivers and streams
far over their banks. .
AshevUle, N. C, the famous resort
city, is hard hit The French river
has toroXen Its course near there,
flooding factories and homes in the
lower part of the city.' Two persons
were drowned attempting to put food
In the upper story ot the Glenn Rock
hotel. Many are marooned In their
residences along the river, while .
rescue parties fight against the rush
ing current to rescue them.
(Aaheville was without lights last
night and water Is flowing In swift "
streams down many of the streeta ot
the lower city. '
The Southern railway depot and
buildings in the vicinity are flooded
to a depth ot six feet.
Western North Carolina Is report
ed facing a serious situation. Lake
Toxa way's big dam and two dams at
Hendersonvtlle are reported to have
collapsed, setting free hundreds of .
tons of water.
The Southern railway bridge over
the Catawba river at Belmont, N. C,
was washed away, carrying IS men
Into the river. It has not been learn
ed whether they were saved. ". . ' -
The missing reported to Washing
ton in scattering dispatches are: H..
P. Griffin, Toad supervisor: Joseph
Klldan, resident engineers C. 3. Bar-
(Continued on Page 4.)
)
