iilPjpyWBHMJlli IHW'HWWW -WWW "
wm.yv0HtiHi 'vrm mmmi w mmmIMgil0p1s'
TFT NA H Ct 'AT " E D TT IO N
Ctmtmg
NIGHT
EXTRA
NIGHT
EXTRA
wwpi- nwmsjwsjiw jwDjumm. pnmmiw"- 'iwiw
c .
VOL. II. NO. 30G
TEUTON-BULGAR
FORCE AIMS AT
BUCHAREST KEY
Berlin Keports Capture of
Seven Defenses of
Tutrakan
SEEK ROAD TO CAPITAL
Rumanians Report CKeck
Foes' Drive Gain in
Transylvania
of
LONDON, Sept. 6, A bold German
stroke, aiming nt tho enrl capture of
Bucharest, capital of Rumania, was re
galed In dispatches from Dcrlln today.
The Germans and Bulgnrs liavo concen
trated artillery nnd men ngatnst the
strongly fortined numonja bridgehead at
Tutrakan, on tho Danube, only 40 miles
southeast of Bucharest. Tho German War
Office this afternoon nnnounccd the capture
of seven Rumania works near Tutrakan,
following the occupation of advanced posi
tions announced yesterday.
Tutrakan lien at tho end of a railway
leading along a river valley directly to
Bucharest. Tho Germans, It Is believed
here, hopo to cross tho Danubo, strlko down
this valley and Inflict a severe blow on the
moralo of tho Rumanian pcoplo by seizing
their capital while tho main Rumanian
army Is Invading Transylvania.
Bucharest dlspatchos assert, however,
that the southern frontier Is well protected
and that Bucharest la In no danger from
that direction. Tho Rumanian War Ofllco
today announced tho rcpulso of tho German
Bulgarian Invaders everywhere, on tho Do
brudja frontier and reported tho capture of
another Transylvanlan town.
GERMANS REPORT CAPTURE
OF SEVEN TUTRAKAN WORKS
IN DRIVE ON BUCHAREST
BERLIN, Sept. 6.
Seven Rumanian works at the town of
Tutrakan, 40 miles southeast of Bucharest,
have been stormed and' captured by the
German and Bulgarian forces, It wns offi
cially announced today.
BERLIN-, Sept. 6.
German military experts predict a drive
through Rumania by tho Germans and the
Bulgarians similar . tq, that n Serbia. Aq,
was, the case when Serbia was conquered,
the operations of tho German Allies aro
being directed by Field Marshal von Mack
ensan. Advancing on an 80-mlIe front, the Ger
mans and their Bulgarian allies have swept
across the southern boundary of Dobrudja
prpvlnce, occupying tho towns of Dobrltch,
Kurt Bunar and Akkadunlar.
The Rumanians have tho ndvantage of
heavy reinforcements of Russian cavalry
In Dobrujda, and at somo points they are
already In contact with the Germans and
Bulgarians.
It Is understood here that four separate
columns of Russian troops, heavily sup
ported by artillery, have entered Rumania
to fight the German allies.
The German-Bulgarian armies are ad
vancing in a northwesterly direction, but
only at one point have they reached the
Danube, where it forma the northern boun
dary of Dobrudja province. Their evident
Intention Is to strike a blow at tho rear of
the main Rumanian army and occupy Buch
arest. Fighting continues In the Transylvania
Alps between Rumanian and Austro-IIun-"taran
forces, but at most polls the Ru
manian drive has Bpent Its force.
Austro. Hungarian reinforcements are
being sent into the Orsovo district, where
the Rumanians, by means of superior num
bers, wera able to achieve a success. Ger
many is determined that tho ilver communl-'
cation on the Danube shall remain open,
but this is Impossible If the Rumanians
bold Orsovo.
TEUTON BULGAR FORCE
CHECKED, RUMANIANS SAY;
TAKE ANOTHER TOWN
BUCHAREST. Sept. 6.
The repulse of the German nnd Bulgarian
troops on the frontier of Dobrudja
province Is reported In an official statement
IMUed by the Wnr Offlr- Inrinv Th. n.,1-
urUns are bombarding Rumanian towns.
' The offlciat report follows:
We have occupied heights west of
rf,ecket' capturing four officers and
men. We are In possession of the
wneu of the Dobrudja frontier. An
l.T? i1 of B"rjlk (Dobrltch)
repulsed. Ffghtlng continues along
W remainder of the frontier. The
IsUuI ?h bombardel 9!afat nnd
borabarded" n0n.,n' wu2X,"n"
H11V ' -,- ,.,.., I1UUIIMIIIK th
number of civilians. Including children.
j Ca!fa( u opposite the Bulgarian town of
Continued on rata Four, Column Two
the Weather
FORECAST
, For Philadelphia and vicinity Gen
mily cloudy and unsettled tonight and
-""UUttU. fllifh nmhnt.l.. .!...,.. .. . .
., .... ,uvuu1 eauivcra, 710C
Men change in temperature; moderate
wv wtncfj,
I.WnTII ttJ i- a v
Jill' s.'.lMoon rliu
"7 0-25 P-m. I Moon outh.. IMmi
DfcUWMB KIVEB TIRE GUANOES
vucaT.NUT 8TRKBT
l-hwT.V ".I TL-. I.J.OW water,.,. SsZD.m
ywUr .8.17 am. I High wator ' sssS.E
iiiAXURE AT EACH HOCK
l 10 11
XOST AND FOUND
WfF e8B.
jwa r:
MQ
ItTlytCATE I-a.l Phil. .-l .
t-T ArcWbjfd. lutum lo Mis I. aJ3 ',,' "
fiwiHt'u? mB.rijn fob. UUer. L J? Kl
u o clock Tueidi mo7-J T"V ,"","H
LUHLnUl 1 lb
JTU Llm T. T
foo Tfci ij t,
-, mwi a. .. a
r-44-yUJLLI ilLi 23l 41 "fi
FREE SPEECH ON GERMANY'S PEACE
TERMS TO BE HEARD IN REICHSTAG
F BERLIN, Sept. C.
RANK discussion of Germany's pence terms nnd various policies of the
government which hnve excited me opposition will be permitted nt the
November session of the Rejchstngr, according to semiofficial information
secured here today. There wilt bo n brief session late this month, but this
will lie given up to adopting measures made necessary by the continuation
of the war.
By November, Government officials expect, certain things will be clear,
not only to tho people of Germany, but also to Germany's enemies. They
assert by that time, with winter at hand and n limitation of military
isunf W 1 ?cccssnry' ik wiU bo "coRnized that Germany's military position
J5D"lc5! nttneks on the west front, which are characterized in-official
tUl? ft ronV th? ron ?.8 n' Pr"gal waste of men," are expected to con
i n?it frAUt th. ffl without any mnrked change in tho general situa
tion, but In the eastern theater tho German commanders are confident they
UL.f roy Rumania n"d Prove to ofher nations now hesitating that another
cncnJy, mo,rc or lcss wl11 not nlTcct tho final outcome.
Ortw r ri BCMi?n f the Reichstag will begin September 28 nnd adjourn
SnJffiSu; Cha"ccllor yon Bcthmnnn-Hollwcg todny called the lenders of all
parties into conference to outline the Government program for this session.
GERMANY PLANS
WAR ON GREECE;
ULTIMATUM HINT
Berlin Preparing Formal
Declaration, Report From
London
DRAFT PROTEST FIRST
LONDON, Sept. 6. Berlin is considering
a declaration of war on Greece. Reports
from tho German capital Indicate that of
ficial circles there consider Greek submis
sion to tho Allied demands as tantamount
to the abandonment of neutrality.
Doctor vo'n Bcthmann-Hollweg, It Is re
ported, has had frequent conferences with
tho parliamentary leaders, and tho question
of opening hostilities against Qrccco was
discussed. No decision has been reached
yet, but the strong hand tho Allies aro
holding over King Constantino's kingdom
Sohns sure to force tho lssuo beforo long.
Greece apparently Is taking steps with a
view toward eventual entry Into the wnr.
Dispatches from Athens report that Ave
classes of reservists have been called to the
colors secretly. Any Buch step as this
would undoubtedly bo dictated by the
Allies.
Meanwhile, Allied troops are policing tho
streets of Athena nnd virtually nro In con
trol of tho whole situation. Berlin will
hardly allow Greece to become a tool of
tho Allies without taking drastic measureB
In" retaliation.
Reutor'a correspondent at Athens cables
that although King Constantino has recov
ered completely from his recent illness, tho
Premier gave tho King's Illness as n reason
why u Venlzelos delegation could not seo
Constantino today.
350-POUND MAN HURT BY FALL
Two Cops nnd Four Other Men Lift
Him
Six men were required to move the 3B0
pounds of Frederick Bagley, who fell down
stairs at his home, 2660 South Fifteenth
street, today. Policeman Ragan, who
reached tho house first, could not budge
Bagley. He called In another cop. nnd fin
ally four other men were pressed Into service.-
They were divided around tho fat man
and each of them was obliged to lift a
fraction more than fifty-eight pounds to get
him on his feet
It was Willi much dlfllculty that Bagley
wan conveyed to the Methodlist Hospital.
His right shoulder was fractured by tho
fall.
NEW FREIGHT SHIP LINE
BETWEEN THIS CITY AND
LATIN-AMERICA FORMED
Service to Rio Janeiro, Santos,
Montevideo and Buenos
Aires .to Begin
October 15
PLAN MONTHLY SAILINGS
A new- freight steamship Una operating
between this city and South American ports
has been organized with a cap'.tal of fl 000,
000, The first of the six vessels now In
possession of the company -will sail on Oc
tober 15 for Rio Janeiro, also touching San
tos, Montevideo and Buenos Ayres.
The company will bo known as tha Phila
delphia and South America Steamship Cor
poration and will operate-the Philadelphia
South American Line. It -will ba financed
almost entirely by Now York-capital, al
though the undertaking was planned by the
Philadelphia Chamber of Commerce as a
means of stimulating trade between this
city and the southern continent.
Monthly sailings have been arranged
under tha present schedule, but 'later, when
the number of vessels will be Increased, bi
monthly sailings will be undertaken. No
passengers will be carried on any of the
boats.
Herman U. Wright, of New York, la presi
dent of the corporation and the vice presi
dent is John & Liggett, of New York, .said
to be the most influential promoters in the
shipping Industry of the world, lie ts a di
rector of several New York banks, of the
Hudson Steamship Company, the Eastern
Steamship Corporation, the Clyde Steamship
Company, the Mallory Line and- similar
companies.
The Pennsylvania Railroad co-operated
extensively In the organization of the new
line. The ships will dock at the railroad
plera on the Delaware. Coffee, Iron and
steel will probably constitute the chief part
of the cargoes.
According to a statement issued today
by the Chamber of Commerce, additional
business amounting to at least tSQ.Q0Q.Q00
will bo brought to this city by the estab
lishment of tbla line. It U contended that
the shippers can save from 40 cents to I
a ton by shipping from this port Instead
fttgnt Wpacuy of about 1M0 tons.
PHILADELPHIA, WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 0, 1910
MARSTON 5 DOWN
TO BOB GARDNER
AT THE 18TH HOLE
Gardiner White Is One 'Up
on Kirkby at Half-Way
Mark Adair Two Up
BUXTON AND EVANS LEAD
By SANDY McNIBLICK
MERION CRICKET CLUB, Havorford,
Pa., Sept. G. Max JInrston went down with
a dull, sickening thud beforo tho shots of
Bob Gardner, champion, In tho second round
of play for tho amateur championship of
tho United Stntes today nt Merlon. Gard
ner was r up nt tho end of 18 holes, beforo
a tremendous gallery, on tho golfer who Is
touted to give htm the' most trouble In re
taining h's crown.
Mnrston was not dismayed by tho E-hole
lead of his famous opponent, however, nnd
started right off this afternoon to get those
holes back nnd pull tho match out of the
fire.
But the fans feel that giving a player like
Gardner a start of live liolaa and then at
tempting to win them back over nn 18-hole
route Is one of the little things of golf that
really comes under tho head of the Impossi
ble. Tho two giant athletes went after each
other hammer nnd tongs, and a rattle of
npplnuso greeted tho efforts tlmo nnd again
of both popular Idols.
The eye-opening event of the day was tho
sonsatlonal play of tho two southern "child
wonders," Bobby Jones, 15 years of age,
nnd Perry Adair, 17 years old. Botli nro
from Atlnnta nnd liavo shown not tho
slightest fear of tho gray-haired veterans
with whom they liavo been thrown In tho
same ring. Perry Adair finished 2 up on
Ciarko Corkran, tho Baltlmoro crack, nnd
Bobby Jones wns alj squaro on Frank Dyer,
after he had lost five out of tho first six
holes. Jones played In brilliant fashion and
wa3 not dismayed in tho slightest at tho
heavy black clouds that gathered over his
efforts at tho very start.
"If I get past Adair," said Corkran last
night, "yoti can quote me as saying thnt I'll
feel a whole lot easier." Ho pulled out of
his pinch wllh bulldog courage and ended
the first quarter only 2 down. Birds on the
last night, which he holed out from des
perato angles, pulled him nil even.
Cameron Buxton, local champion, was all
square with Georgo Small, Baltimore,
Continued on Tore Two, Column Tho
HUMAN TORCH BURNS
TO DEATH AT PLANT
Midvale Steel Workman's Cloth
ing Set Ablaze by Explosion.
Friends' Efforts Futile
Sand thrown by n dozen or more work
men failed to extinguish (lames which en
veloped the body of Martin Caste'isen,
following the explosion of nn oil tank today
at the Nlcetown plant of the Midvale Steel
Company, and Carstenson was burned to
death. Ite was E3 years old, and lhed at
1625 Staub street.
With a gasoline "blower," Carstenson was
endeavoring to melt an Iron ring about the
door of a big blasting furnace. In fcome
mannet yet unexplained, the llttlo (lame
which darted from the tube of the blower,
backfired and Ignited the oil In-the tank of
tha blower.
There was an explosion and In a second
Carstenson was covered from head to foot
with blazing oil. A human torch, with his
hald and clothing afire, Castensen ran
screaming about the plant. Workmen with
bucketsful of sand gave chase. They threw
the sand over his body, but Carstenson, In
sane with pain, eluded hlajyould-be helpers,
and the flames burned until they had con
sumed every bit of his hair and clothing.
He finally plunged to the floor, his body
literally burned to a crisp.
PARALYSIS CUTS HONEYMOON-
Physician's Services Needed, He Stays
Away Only One Day
A honeymoon cut short because of In
fantile paralysis was that of Dr, and Mrs.
Washington Merscher, of S54 East Wash
ington lane, who were married Saturday,
at Lebanon, Fa.
Doctor and Mrs. Merscher, who was Miss
Theda S. Denglcr, a former nurse, had
planned an extended honeymoon, but be
cause of tho need for Doctor Merscher's
services In the fight against the plague
they contented themselves with a day's
stay at Atlantic City. They wera married
by tha Rev- John M. Stengo, of Holy
Trinity Lutheran Church, Lebanon. Doctor
Merscher was graduated from tha Univer
sity of Pennsylvania Medical School In
1910.
WILSON DOESN'T
WANT AN ESCORT
OF SUFFRAGISTS
"Meet Him at Theater,"
Word Sent to the Delegates
NO INDORSEMENTS GIVEN
Women Decide They Will Not
Back Any Candidnte in
Fall Campaign
Hu a Staff Corretpondtnt
ATLANTIC CITY, Sept. 6. President
Wilson today oxprccscd n desire not to have
n fllo of women escort htm through the
streets of Atlantic City when ho nrrlvcs here
Friday evening to address the emergency
convention of the Nnllonal Woman Suffrage
Association.
Tho suffragists planned to hnve a "special
escort of honor" to lend tho President to tho
convention, but today tho nation's Chief
Kxccutlvo notified Mrs. Carrie Chapman
Catt, president of tho association, that he
preferred to havo the escort meet him nt
tho theater where ho Is to speak.
WORKING ON PLATFORM
-To no party or no candidato will go the
Indorsement of tho Natlonnl Woman Suf
rago Association. This much was decided
upon nftcr n struggle In tho executive com
mittee, which began early yesterday after
noon nnd lasted until welt townrd morning
today.
Six women nre working on tho platform
of the nssoclntlon, which will bo reported In
executlvo session to tho Exccutlvo Council
tonight nnd presented to tho delegates on
tho lloor of tho convention Thursday, ac
cording to tho announcement of Mrs. Carrlo
Chapman Catt. Pennsylvania women met
last night at the Marlborough-Btonhclm, be
hind closed doors nnd received Information
concerning, tho secret nftcrnoon conference
of tha executive Council. Mrs. George B.
Orlady, of Huntingdon, president of the Key
stono division, presided. Mrs. J. Claude
Bedford, of Media, tho Pennsylvania sec
retary, gavo the Instructions.
The suffragists are meeting here today
In an emergency convention. It was called
by Mrs. Catt, president, to consider tho Im
mediate program for tho suffragists to fol
low. BIG STRUGGLE COMING .
It seems to be the hopo that out of
this convention will como n way for the
National Association and tho Congres
sional Union to fight under one organiza
tion.
Mrs. Catt makes the point that regard
less of how much progress has been al
ready mado tho biggest fight Is yet to be
staged. She groups In tho enemy crowd
what she calls the reactionaries, the
knaves and the Illiterate.
It Is tho president's Idea to have the
nub of tho situation fought out at the be
ginning. After that she believes the dele
gates, somo 3000 of them, can take on their
shoulders the other questions, sue.' as
method, organization and tho like. The
gist of the thing Is In the attitude tho
organized suffragists will take toward the
Susan B. Anthony amendment.
This amendment calls for congressional
granting of woman suffrage.
Tim Congressional Union thinks to work
Continued on Tare Kite, Column Ttro
SENATE TAKES UP
OWEN BILL AGAINST
CORRUPT PRACTICES
Administration Leaders Lose
Their Fight to Sidetrack the
Measure Until Next
December
PENROSE CAUGHT NAPPING
WASHINGTON, Sept. 6. The corrupt
practices bill, designed to limit campaign
expenditures, was taken up by the Senate
today despite the plans of 'Administration
leaders to sidetrack the measure until Con
gress reassembles next December. By a
vote of 32 to 14 the Senate adopted a
motion by Senator Owen to take up the
measure. Plans for adjournment tomorrow
were further tangled.
Seven Democrats Bankhead, Hughes,
Simmons, Martin, Thomas. Bryan and
Fletcher voted against consideration of the
bill, and nine Republicans Brady, Clapp,
Cummins, Gronna, Jones, Kenyon, La Fol
lette, Norrls and Sterling voted with the
Democratto majority to consider the meas
ure. Senator Penrose, who opposed taking up
the bill, was caught napping when Senator
Owen put his motion. The rollcall was un
der way when Senator Penrose tried to get
the floor. Vice President Marshall ruled
that the motion was not then debatable
and the rollcall proceeded.
After Senator Owen had briefly outlined
the bill, a filibuster led by Senator Penrosa
blocked further progress. The Pennsylvania
Senator began a lengthy talk on various
matters and It was apparent that he was
determined to prevent a vote.
The bill drastically restricts campaign, ex
penditures. It limits the aggregate dis
bursements of any party "for the purpose
of influencing or controlling the choice of
presidential electors In behalf of any presi
dential and vice presdentlal candldate"V
1100.000. The maximum disbursement
allowed to candidates for presidential nomi
nations Is tSO.OOO, while $25,000 Is the
maximum allowed vice presidential candi
dates. The expenditure of campaign fund
by any committee "or member thereof"
without the knowledge and consent of a
candidate for President or Vice President
Is forbidden.
Candidates for Senator are allowed to
spend J5000, while candidates for Repre
sentatives aro limited to 12500- Individual
campafcp contributions are limited to ?SQ0O
Tbe biff has passed the House, but has been
radically amended by the Senate Committee
on Privileges and Elections.
QUICK
PHILLIES, 1st G..
BOSTON
NATIONAL LEAGUE
BKOOKLYN, 1st c-0 O O 1 O O O
NI3W YORK O 4 1 O O O O
Cheney nutl Miller; Benton anil McC.uly.
ST. LOUIS, 1st 5.... O O O 2 O O O
P1TTSBUKGH ....OOOOOOO
Sleclo and Gonzales; Jacubn tutd Schmidt.
TODAY'S RACING RESULTS
1'lrst Montreal rnce, purse !?500, innldcu 8-yenr-olds, G fuilongst
T-ord Fltzherbert. 115, Robinson, SD.70, ?2.00. 2.10, won; Cnp
Inln Ray, 11-1, Pnnington, 2.40, $2.30, second; Starter, 114, Scher
mcrhorn, S3.U0, third. Time, 1.17 3-D.
Second Montreal race, purse $400, 3-ycar-olds nnd up, handicap,
1 1-8 miles Copper King, 08, A. Collins, SI 1.00, $0.70, S3.C0, won;
Amphlon, 110. Williams, $0.10, $4.20, second; Hampton Dame, 114,
Robinson, $3.10, third. Time, 1.50.
First Windsor race, purse $000, 3-year-olds and up, selling, 5 1-3
furlongs Tush Tush, 111, DomlnicU, $15.70, $7.30, $5.10, won;
Barton, 111. entry, $4,30, $3.00, second; Bognrt, 111, Mnrtin, $13.00,
third. Time, 1.00.
Fit st Belmont race, 3-ycnr-olds and up, selling, purse $500, 7
furlongs, maiden course Wenonah, 07, Wnrscher, 4 to 1, 8 to 5, 4 to
0, won; Flag Day, 105, Mink, 15 to 1, C to 1, 3 to 1, cccoud; Maubhou,
110, J. McTnggart, 3 to 5, 3 to 5, 1 to 3, third. Tlme,1.25.
SUFFRAGISTS' STATE FUND $90,731, WOMEN HEAR
ATLANTIC CITY, Sept. 6. Mrs. Emily Wnde Eogers, of New
Haven, Conn., treasurer of tho Nntlonnl Woman Suffrage Association
in convention here, denounced tho "haphazard methods" of aonie
Stato organizations In securing money. She nnnounccd a balauce
on hand of $00,731.84.
COURT OF INQUIRY-PROBES BRITISH WAR OFFICIALS-
LONDON, Sept. 0. An army court of inquiry wns convened Jo
clay to Investigate charges against officials of tho War Office. The'
proceedings were secret.
BRITISH AIRMAN DESTROYS U-BOAT AT ZEEBRUGGE
LONDON, Sept. 0. A louo British airman, f lyiuj from Dunkirk,
bombarded tho German naval base at Zeebrugge, destroying- a subma
rine in tho harbor, says a Central News dispatch from Amsterdam
today.
ITALIANS CONTINUE ADVANCE INTO EPIRUS
ATHENS, Sept. 0. Italian troops uro continuing their advance into tho interior
of Kplrus, taklnrc over tha administration of tho country. Tho Minister of Wnr de
nies that partial mobilization Is imminent.
BRITISH TAKE TEUTON SAILOR OFF U. S. SCHOONER
PI3NRACOLA, Fla., Sept. 6. Tho five-masted Amerlcun schooner Marcus L.
Urann. whllo outward bound from Norfolk July 21, was halted by a Hrltish cruiser
nnd boarded by olllcers, who inspected tho ship's papers and then seized Hans
Herclesen, n German steward.
COTTON BREAKS MORE THAN $2.00 A BALE
NEW YORK, Sept. 6. Cotton broke sharply 27 points, more than $2 on the
bale, on the Cotton Exchange this afternoon. December cotton vas quoted at 15.61
cents u pound, down 27 points.
WILSON'S MEXICAN POLICY ATTACKED IN HOUSE
. WASHINGTON. Sept. 6. In a bitter attack on the Administration Mexican
policy, Representative Rodenberg, of Illinois, In the House today, reiterated his
former charges that Cleveland 11. Dodge, of New York, the largest individual con
tributor to the Wilson campaign fund in 1912, was Interested in a munitions (Irm
which shipped ammunition into Mexico just after tlin battle between American
and Mexican forces at Parrel last April. lie n&serteu it was this ammunition that
was used in the battle at Carrizal when 19 American soldiers were killed.
GERMAN LINERS AT NORFOLK TO COME HERE
The German Bhlps Prince Kite! Frledrlch and Kronprlnz Wllhelm are to be
moved front the Norfolk Navy Yard, where they sought refugo from the Allies, to
the Philadelphia Navy Yard, the Navy Department announced today. Removal
is to be made because the Norfolk yard is crowded and harbor improvements are
soon to be made. About 970 German seamen are attached to the vessels. They
will go to Philadelphia. The date for removal has not been set.
LA FOLLETTE WINS NOMINATION FOR RE-ELECTION
MILWAUKEE, Wis., Sept. C Senator La. Follette. Progressive Republican,
was nominated by the Republicans for re-election by a 25,000 majority over Malcolm
Jeffris, conservative Republican, fairly complete returns today from yesterday's
primary Indicated. Governor Phillips, conservative Republican, won the guber
natorial nomination over former Governor McGovern and William II. Hatton, Pro
gressives, tJjNya large plurality. Burt Williams, for Governor, and William W. Wolf,
for United States Senator, were nominated without opposition by the Democrats.
STATE BARS LIQUORS FROM MUNITIONS FACTORIES
The State Department of Labor and Industry has drafted a new set of regula
tions to make Pennsylvania munition factories safer, one of the principal rules of
which bars the use of intoxicating liquors. A public hearing on the new regulations
was given today in the office of Commissioner John Price Jackson, of the de
partment, in the North American Building.
BABY GIRL STRANGLED WHILE FALLING FROM CR.IB
Frances Miller, one. year old, falling out of her crib at her home, 16J7 South
Taney street, was strangled to death when the sheet became tangled about her neck.
Coroner Knight Is making Investigation because of the unusual nature of the
accident.
SUPER-ZEPPELIN 800 FEET LONG GIVEN TRIAL
ZURICH, Switzerland, Sept. 6. A auper-Zeppelln, 800 feet Itng, and with
four gondelas, made a. trial flight over Lake Constance on Sunday, accordhiy
to the Neue Zuricher Zietung.
Cortttonr, 1916, bi ini rostto Lrwr Ccuntit
NEWS
Postponed- Rain.,
0 0-1 4 1
1 x- G CO
i
0 -
1 -
PRICE ONE CENT
7D0PE' VICTIMS
AND SYNDICATE
FOIL U. S. LAW
Courts' Decisions Help,
Criminal Band to Escape '
Punishment i
SUFFERINGS OF "FIENDS"
Throng Drug Stores, Seek Out
Unscrupulous Doctors and
Chemists ,
ARTICLE II
This is the accond article of a aeries on
the atarminp aprcad of the drug evil in
Philadelphia. More than 15,000 persons are
alavca 0 "dope," which is smuggled into
the city & a criminal syndicate, in spite 0
tha Harrison act. Yesterday's article told
of tho workings of this syndicate and of
the blow struck at It for a time by the
Federal law, before the courts Invalidated
the vital Section 8, just at the moment when
tho drug traffic seemed to be crushed.
The inquiry was conducted at the request
of Dr. Horatio C. Wood, Jr., and with the
aTtivo co-operation of United States Vlstriot
Attorney Kane's office.
By HENRY JAMES BUXTON
When tho underworld was forced by ths
workings of tho Harrison act Into tha
light of day for the first tlmo In Its history
In this city last Bummer, when by tho hun
dreds tho "dope nends," famished for their
unholy bread of life, had to tako the un-hcard-of
step of publicly confessing their
vice, gathering from all corners of the'
city to Ninth and Chestnut streets, and
there seeking tho otllco of United States
District Attorney JCano to beg him for
relief, It seemed that the narcotic drug
evil hero was In Its death throes.
Tho Federal law was doing Its work,
with tho might and prestige of half a con
tinent behind It. The Harrison act pro
hibits all persons from selling or giving
nway narcotlo drugs, except on a physi
cian's proscription. Moro than that, Sec
tion 8, most vital to fighting tho nttempts
to evade tho law In big cities, makes It a
crimo punishable by f.vo years In prison
or a $2000 flno or both to havo tho drugs
In one's possession unless a ltcenso had
been taken out, and licenses arc, of course,
obtainable only by physlctans and druggists.
Thus a man or woman feould tie arrested
(and -'thejr-wcro) for havlnt cocaine, mor
phine or heroin in his or her possession, and
this possession was deemed presumptive
proof of having Illicitly obtained It for sale
or use.
UNSCRUPULOUS DOCTORS
Frantic nt their plight for It Is Impossi
ble to stop tho drug habit suddenly those
among tho 15,000 "fiends". In this city and
vicinity who dreaded to confess and receive
treatment by the reduction system at hos
pitals found what seemed the weakest link
In tho law. They thronged the office of
unscrupulous physicians. Several drug
stores reaped a harvest by filling these pre
scriptions. ' At one drug store in the north
east section nearly 100 prescriptions wer
filled dally. Tho druggist said of this ex
perience: "It was awful. Sometimes we had forty
or fifty drug (lends In our store at one time.
Groups of eight or ten would pool their
money, each putting In a dlmo or a quarter.
Somo of them would nearly collapse while
they were waiting for their prescriptions to
be, filled. Often one would say, 'Doctor,
can't you give me a capsule while I'm wait
ing? My nerves feel like plnsv'
"Several when they received their por
tion? of heroin would grab a soda straw
from the counter and sniff the white
heroin powder up' their noses before they
left the store. Most of them groaned and
sighed with relief when they began to feel
the effect of the drug. Some wept from
pure Joy, and one dope fiend, remembering
a prayer taught him by his mother, drop
ped to his knees and gave fervid utterance
to that prayer. It was a terrible sight. T
LAW IS CniPPLED
This drug store acted within its rights
in filling prescriptions evidently in proper
form. Others did not wait for the pre
scriptions, but sold the drug3 to those they
could trust. But one by one the unscrupu
lous doctors and druggists were detected or
frightened Into observance of the law, and
this resulted In pressure which was driving
the "fiends" Into the open by the Bcore and
they were sent to the hospital for treatment
or. If they had the means, to private phy
sicians who gradually reduced their doses
to the vanishing point the "reduction sys
tem." For many of the "fiends" are members
of respectable families scores of them are
skill for the conservation of health and
Intrusted with work requiring consummate
property lawyers, bankers, even surgeons,
men who do their work well, but who are
trembling on the verge of disaster.
Internal revenue officers were elated at
the success of the Harrison act. Social
workers saw an early solution of the prob
lem. The "dope syndicate" was cowed and
dug Itself Into the subterranean chambers
of the Tenderloin.
Then, like a bolt from the blue, came the
decision of the United States Supreme
x IT IS NOT TOO LATE
to start reading
"THE WINGS OF THE
MORNING"
by LOUIS TRACY
the new serial story now runnlne In
the
The fourth installment appear l&
today's Issue ant a comprehwisive
synopsis enables you to pick wr Sh
thread of the jstory witbw: t
loss of a single essential deUfc
r
1 .
V
i
,
"5,
i
J"IM !" Tf '1 iT'tf''''"
jiiiMIIiiiii mi Mill 1 i' s. TirijjjMjjMJIi.
-- iKnJje&uojixAjbjLiTJL
