f
bufib -t "> -".-> - ? ? -.'"-v ' ? ? ".r-"' ' ? ;' ?'?
Fix Your Own Car
Cucrrlich, in the Sunday T.-D.
Will Tell You How
Frank Carpenter
Look, for His Alazf^a Letter in
the Sunday Times-Dispatch
\vi:atiii:u
i*a<;k :
?RAIN.
PRICE, TWO CENTS.
SENATE PASSES i
[ REVENUE BILL BY
VOTE OF 42 T016
Last Measure on Wilson's
Legislative Program Is
Rushed to Conference.
MEANS ADJOURNMENT
OF CONGRESS TO-MORROW
President Given Weapon to Use
in Retaliation Against
Allies.
DIPLOMATS ARK A STOt'XDKl)
Tltey llttllevo Passage ??f Amcml
ment^ Will Constitute Xoii
Intemmrsc Art.
| WASHINGTON, Septembei -The
idminlatratlon revenue hill. designed
to raise I20ri.000.0ft0 annuall;. from
axe* on Inheritances and war muni
lions and from Inrreascs in the income
lux. creating a tariff commission, estab
lishing a protective tariff on dvestuffs,
providing for protection of American
Irtns from "dumping" at the end of
ihe war. and ulvlng tlie President
xuthorlty to take ?Irasti- retaliatory
steps against allied Interference with j
American trade. wa.< pa?<!.?-<] late to-i
night h.v 111?- Senate The vote was ?
12 to i>;.
Kllinlna t in-f the usual formalit i?s in
>rder to insure ailjournment of '"on- I
.rress by Thursday at th< latest, ihei
?Senate rushed the measure, the last j
>n the administration legislative pro-i
sram. Immediately to conference.
I'l VI-: HF.Pt lll.lt * NS
\ h i i; niii its pass \<.i:
I?? Ive Uepuhllcan Senators Cummins,
l\ 1'iiyori. I.a Follette. Norris and ?'lapp?;
, nteil for the hill. The Senate con
ferees appointed were Simmons. Wil
liams, lloke Smith. Hughes. Penrose,
<111001 and Mci'uinlxT The House w 11
ippolnt conferees lo-inorrow.
The Senate was In session until after
nldnlght. It practically had completed
?he bill eat Her. t>\it toward midnight
-'en.itor l.'nderwood moved i" trlke out
he section which would create .1 tariff
ommission an! began !;->t fight
igainst this provision, which already
tad heen agreed to
r.y a vote of *r- to ?" 'I"' Sen.tie re-;
ceted Senator 1'ndfrwond s motion, thus
etainlnp Use tariff com mission section
.f the bill Senators who voted to
?llmlnate it were llankhead. Hardwlck. !
-hicldf. I'nderwood attd Vaniainun
HOTItlN TO SUM) llll.I. Iltl I*
to roMMrrrr.K iii-:fi:ati:i> ;
\ motion by Senato; Penrose to send |
le bill hack to the Finance t'ornmit
II e. with liiKtructions that i' report a
10 a sure to raise revenues l>y a protec
tive tariff, and with special provisions
for Industrial defense, was rejected by
1 vote of S3 to 21. Senator I .a Follette
.van the only Hepnbllcan to vote no
To Increase government revenues tlie
? ?ill provides for doubling the normal
tax and Increasing the surtaxes on |
incomes: an Inheritance tax a new |
nrotlt tax on manufacturers of muni
tions of war. a license tax on Stock of
?orporatlons capitalized at more than
?*13,000. excise taxes on beer, wines ant
liquors and miscellaneous stamp taxes..
The hill also creates a i'nited States
tariff commission of six members whose
salaries shall be ST.r,0<? a year despite
III effort made 10 Increase them to
tin,000; provides foi increased tariff
lutles on dye-stuff* to encourage their
manufacture in this country, and makes
provision to safeguard against dump
inn of foreign-made goods aft<" the
European war into American markets
Drastic amendments to the hill strik
ing at the allied blacklisting of Amer
ican merchants, discrimination against
American commerce, interference with
American mails andtnbargoes on Amer
.can trade were Incorporated in the,
till to arm the President with retalla- j
tory weapons. These amendments have
;reated consternation among diplo-j
-natlc representatives of the allied
cowers In Washington, who assert that
if finally enacted, as now seems cer
ain. they would constitute a noninter
?otirse act.
I'ASSACi 12 OF SIMASl'H K
AT 0\F. TIMI-i 'I'llItKATF.Mill j
Passage of the bill and adjournment ,
?f Congress were threatened for a time |
lO-night by an attempt to attach to
:^e nteasuro the Webh hill, desired by
the President, permitting American
Irms to establish collective selling
igencies abroad. When Senator l.ewis.
if Illinois, submitted the bill as an
\mcnriment he was promptly. assured
?y Senator l-a Follette that It would
.revoke prolonged discussion Iftfiressed.
?Senator I<e\vis thereupon withdrew the
intendment, announcing that it would]
1(1 pressed as a separate measure, ha\
ng already passed the House, early in
lie December session.
Late to-night, vain effort was made
>y Senator Hasting, of Wisconsin, loj
tmend the bill by providing for pub-1
iclty, in the discretion of the Prcsl
lent, of the income tax returns of lu
ll viduals. The amendment was de
'eated. 32 to 21.
An amendment by Senator Phelan
o extend the time from ninety days
o six months for payment of the tax
? f 5 cents a gallon on hrirttdles used in
'ortlfylng wines, was adopted.
It KTA I.IATION >1 K A S I'll IIS
PAMSr.n WITIIOCT IIOI.I. CAI.I.S
Amendments designed to provide
neans of retaliation against CSreat
Britain for embargoes on American
{oods, the trade black list and inter
ference with the mails were agreed
o without roll calls, and were tinop
losed In debate.
These amendments, all applying to
?.ondltlons during existences of a war
n which the Uttlled States Is not en
gaged, would authorize the President
o:
Deny by proclamation the use of
(.Continued 011 Second Page.)
J
Richmond Sailor Home
From Constantinople
i >K\V September ?Three
Niillom from the fulled Mutrn kihi
IiomI .Scorpion, wlilvli Ih kept nt
C.oiiNdintiiiopIr for the unr of t|,e
Amrrli'iin noiliiiNHiidor, nrrlvrd here
on the Scuiidliiiivliin-Aiticrlciiii tin it
Inlted Sti? ten on leave of iilmrncr.
Tliey nrr It. I>. Sparks, of ChurlcM
lon, \V. Vn.j C. .11. liuiiliip, or filch
I inoml, \ n., nntj jieClinud. of
| Huston.
Tlicy eiiinc home vln l.rrmiinv,
nnd In llutKuriu were Mcnrcliert nt
j rvcrj town through uhlrli they
paused. They niiw the ItoiinuinliuiH
lirrpnrlugr for unr, nnd i n v every
body knew Ionic nK? Unit Itoiuniiiila
would Join the iillieN.
VILLA COMING NORTH
TO ITT1CK PERSHINE
Helleved Hnndit Hopes to KiiKa^c
American Jvvpedit innat-y Troops
IJelow Hordes*.
nK.VKK.Ali l l .NSTO.V OX <U .AKD
Mexican Outlaw Definitely Located
in Santa Clara Canyon?Oon/nlcs
Has Dispatched Force Io .Meet lliin.
Joint Commission .Meets To-Day.
SAN A XT' i.N"I'?, TK.V, September .
The possibility thin Fra?i<i.<co Villa jH
making Ms way to the northeast with
? ne Intention of attacking Ceneral
Pershing's expeditionary force was. emi.
sidereal at Cencral Funston's headtjuar
tcrs to-night.
general Funston said lie |t:,,| received
a lob gram from 'Jencral Mel) contain
ing the gist of a report fiotn ilenrral
' lonzales, in which the latter confirmed
the definite location of Villa's for<-r in
th" Santa ? "lai a Canyon, Ceneral
zales said j,r. had dispatched t roo;,s to
engage Villa, luit Oeneral Hell ?iid not
?a\ from what point they are ,.r,,_
ceeding.
' ieneral Kunston said he regarded !t
as not at all imp-ohaMe that \*11: . was
plai:ni tm in engage I lie A met (cans,
probably at some point where they .ire
not great In strength. The .Santa Clara
Canyon i? fa: south of the southern
most American detachment
1 he Mexican consulate here has re.
ceived from Mexico City a dispatch
"Inch says that on Colonel Mnximano
I'crnesi. a ? "legallsta" leader captured
in the I .a iru na district and executed,
was found a document, dated August
IMi., signed hy I'tancisco Villa as
">.'vtiet-al-ln-chlef." in which Villa ap
pointed Fornesl commander "of all the
chief." who operate in the Laguna dis
trict "
.HUNT I IIIMIISMIIN 11II 1.1 Is
its rittsr mi:i:ti\(; to-iiav
XK\v l.? I.VI 'O.N". c< i.N'N . September .V
Members of the Mexican Joint commis
sion arrived liere late to-da> from New
Vork aboard the president ia I yacht
M a y'! o wet.
l.uis Cabrera. Mexican Minister of
(?'nance, ami head of tl,* commission
named l?y Oeneral Cairanza. will pre
side at the first meeting to-morrow
morning. .Secretary Lati?\ headinu the
American commission, will conduct the
following session, and the two will
alternate as presiding otlicer thereafter.
lii accordance with Cenetal <.'ar
rnnr.a's preferences, the question of
border military conditions will be dis
cussed first n seems likely that the
withdrawal nf 'Seneral Pershing's troops
from Mexico, the main object which the
Mexican commissioners have he<-n in
structed to press, and the terms ..f the
protocol to cover future campaigns
again Ft I.audits will i... rotipb d to
gether.
If an agreement is reached t? > the
commissioners, it must be ratified, both
In Wash inert on and Mexico Ci:>
WILSON BACK IN CAPITAL
lie ItcjrlilK Work Incident In llnrly
A il Jonrtiincn t of
I ongrexs.
WASIIIN'CiTOX. Scptcinhei I'resl
dent Wilson returned to Washington to
day from I i odgcnvllle, Ky.. and im
mediately licgan work incident to the
adjournment of Congress. On Friday
he will go to Atlantic City to address
the National American Woman Suffrage
Associat ion.
After his Atlantic City address, the
President plans to establish himself at
his summer home. Shadow Lawn, at
Long I'.ranch, N\ .1 . and remain there
during practically all of the presidential
campaign. The executive offices will ha
moved to Anbury J'ark. X. .1 . on Friday.
While at Long Branch the President
will continue to attend to official busi
ness. but will devote much of his time
to campaign work. The address at
Atlantic City will be delivered on Fri
day night, and after that he has no
speaking engagements before Septem
ber 20. when lie will go to St. Louis.
On his return trip from fiodgenvllln
the President urged Chairman New
lands, of the joint congressional sub
committee on railroads, a member of
bis party, to begin as soon as possible
an investigation of questions growing
out of the recently threatened railroad
strike.
ROBINSON FILES CHARGES
Siiym :mn llnrrrl* of Oil on tleck
('nuned DlHitnter lo Slennirr
Adtuirtil Clark.
.\ 10W ORLKAXS. September r?.?Wil
fred KobiiiHon, who was third en
gineer of the steamer Admiral Clark,
wrecked in the Caribbean Sea during
the August hurricane, with the loss of
Captain .lames Daniels and nineteen
of the crew, filed a statement to-day
with the United States .inspector of
steam vessels, charging the loading of
.100 barrels of fuel oil on Ihe steamer's
deck caused the wreck.
The local Marine Kngineers* Asso
ciation is preparing a request to Con
gress for a Federal law prohibiting
deck loading, based on Kohinson's
charges.
Those Relating to Political Rights
Cause Anxiety Among
Officials.
INVOLVE INTEGRITY OF CHINA
Possibility of Violation of Open
Door Policy Also Being
Considered.
WASHINGTON, September 5.?Swoop.
I Ini; demands. far more drastic than any
published summaries listindicated. .iro
. revealed j? the Mcrrot terms being
I pressed on f'liina by Japan as a result
I ?>f * lie recent armed conlllct between
soldiers of the two nations at flume
j Ohiattin, Iti inner Mongolia. Private
dispatches received here to-day reveal
thai Japan seeks indemnities, an apol
' "kv and political con cessions tliroueh
ont the whole section of inner Mongolia
and South Manchuria.
The four formal demands are quoted
as foliow.s:
1 I 'tin ish men t of tli? commanding
: <.'hine.se oMicer Involved in the trouble.
2. Dismissal) with punishment, of the
other otlicers involved.
Instructions to Chinese troops in
? inner Mongolia and South Manchuria
not t o interfere in any way with Japa
nese troops or civilians and to publish
this fact broadly
?i. Recognition <if "special interests"
for Japan in inner Mongolia and South
Manchuria, comprising powers of police
and aHminist rat ion : preference in loans
and in the selection of all foreign ad
! visors, etc.
A I.SO A i:i? TO ?? I? WT
I'Ut It ??( l)M KSSIONS"
1 He*?iiies the four "demands" are four
"concessions" which China is asked to
grant Japan without forntal demand, as
. follows:
i 1. The Chinese army in South Man
I cliuria and Kastern Mongolia to employ
Japanese military advisers.
2. Chinese schools and colleges to
have Japanese military inspectors.
"This is not limited to any section in
I dispatches so far received,J
3. A formal apology in person from
the I'hiiic.-. Governor a; Daireti and the
Japanese consul at Mukden for the
Cheng '"hiatun trouble.
1. Monetary compensation to the fam
ilies of the Japanese killed, the amount
to i>e settled hy later negotiations.
Secretary Lansing refused to-night
to comment oil the dispatch or to out
line what might be the attitude of
the American government. it is
: known, however, that steps will l>e
taken immediately by the. State De
purtment to secure detailed reports
and learn the frill significance of Ja
pan's act. American interests seem at
first glance to he more deeply involved
than in any event in the Par Kast
since Japan's faineus ultimatum to
China of May, 191a.
i?i:i:pi:st \\mkt\
i VI Sl'll) I.N \\ \ Ml I M.TOX
It is the political articles which
causae tii- deepest anxiety to Wash
ington ollicials. They were omitted
entirely in the published demands.
The recognition of "special rights" is
open to the most extreme interpieta
tloti, and it is feared niiulit cut directly
j across the American policy of th>- in
tegrity of China. Also it has in it
possibilities of violation of trie open
door policy, and the making of the
whole va.-t region involved a mere de
pendency of Japan.
Article :i of the "demands" places
Japanese soldiers and troops in this
territory entirely above the control of
'"nine.se soldiers, eventually annulling
| China's sovereignty there. Japanese
! already have won the right to their
; own courts and in many places their
own police.
The employment "f the Japanese
'military advisers for Chinese forces in
' that vicinity is thought to he ;t tlrst
move to serine J a pane so control of
j China's armed forces there.
Well-informed Chinese sources see
nothing for China but submission, be
lieving any day is apt to mean the
I occupation of the territory by Japan
J ese armed forces. China is in no con
dition to offer serious Resistance.
N'o foreign country, save possibly the
? I'nitffl States, is expected to offer ob
; jection to Japan's course, because of
i conditions abroad, and some diplomats
? here believe Japan has seized this time
to put in force her "Monroe Doctrine"
; for China.
: \ r.W \ l)M IMX'I'U ATION
t"O \ SO 1,11? ATI \(? ITSKI.K
china's new administration under
President l,i Yuan living is reported
! to he consolidating itself successfully
\ after the confusion caused by Yuan
: Shi Kai's death. The Japanese threat
! is given much of the credit for this.
Finance presents the most insuperable
difliculty at present Kurope cannot
lend money, and American hankers
have not. been satisfied with the terms
1 and the lack of government support,
j The proposed S3fl,0flfl,0iifl Japanese loan,
j almost completed, was thought by the
| Japanese embassy here to-day to have
been held up indefinitely because of the
strained relations.
The seriousness of the situation was
I heightened to-day with reports of
| another conflict between Chinese and
| Japanese troops at < 'haoyangpo
Private advices from Peking claim
that the Japanese troops attacked the
Chinese garrison there, when the latter
were pursuing bandits. The Japanese
contention is that the Japanese troops
wore seeking to mediate between the
Chinese troops and Mongolian brig
ands when the Chinese attacked.
STOPS TRAIN TO GO FISHING
Man Milken Charge Attains! engineer
I" Snliiwr Hallroad for
/ 9X1100.
NIOW HRLIOANS, LA., September f>.-?
Alleging that he lost a b|g lumber
contract because of train delay. Kdgar
Wright, in a suit for $2,100, charges
that the engineer of the llatou Rouge,.
Hammond and Kastern Railway delayed!
his train two hours to go fishing.
"I conccdo the luring powers of
angling," says the plaintiff, "but busi
ness is business."
ZEPPELIN VICTIM
OF BRITISH AIRMAN
Member of Royal Flying Cotps
Brings Down Big Ger
man Raider.
BODIES TO GE BURIED TO-DAY
Lieutenant Robinson Is Awarded
Victoria Cross by King
George.
I* ON I ? O X, September ?-K i lit?
'?eorge to-day awarded the Victoria
' ross to I.i< ut'Minnt William Le? fc
Robinson, of t > > r> Itoyal Klying forpn,
for bringitie down a Kciipolln which
attempted to rnl?Y I.nniloii on Saturday
niKht. The announcement m.i'lc hy the
: official press bureau was the first hint
that the air invader was the vi?? ti>
r,r ? British flyer instead of gunfire
file press bureau slates that tin1 Vic
toria ('ross was awarded to {lieutenant
Robinson f..r "most conspicuous
bravery."
Lieutenant Robinson is t wenty-one
years old. <in Saturday night he was
st-oulinc in en ordinary way, having
i?f"n |n the air two hours alone in an
aeroplane When searchlights re
vealed th'- presr-n- ? of a Zeppelin, lie
followed it f<.r more than twenty miles.
? Lieutenant Robinson made his attack
it close ranee. The Zeppelin threw
: out gr^at clouds of smoke and tried to
elude him. but he stuck to its trail,
and, 'living beneath the giant gas bag.
began Urine with his. machine gun.
Ilis shots hit the petrol tanks, which
? exploded, tiring M,e pas hag.
had a votii Kit
or t w a ?i \<; a msiiii's
Robinson quickly descended, nar
, row ly avoiding a serious accident on
the way, atid telephoned his report to
headquarters Then he hurried in an
automobile to the scene of the wreck.
, J'rior to iiis successful attack on
i^jjte Zeppelin. Robinson had engaged
another of the invading airships.
Marly on Sunday morning, when
crowds began to gather around the
wreck of the Zeppelin, Itohinson was
one of the spectators. lie was stand
: iii" with iiis hack toward the debris,
: chatting with brother oncers, when the
searching parly which was examining
the wreckage discovered an Iron Cross.
"I'ass the word to Robinson," said the
officer in command, and that was the
first any one outside of the circles knew
ihe young lieutenant was the conqueror
of the Zeppelin. The Iron Cross found
in the debris was' turned over to him.
He also will receive about S'.'.t'fiO offered
in rewards by various societies for the
first officer to bring down a Zeppelin
on English soil.
The inquest to-day, resulted in a
finding that the Zeppelin was brought
down by an aeroplane manned by Lieu
tenant Robinson. At the Inquest an
officer of the living corps testified that
there was no way of identifying the
half-burned bodies of the Zeppelin's
crew, the air sailors not having worn
the customary metal identification
disks There were a few charred per
sonal effects, including a coat anil a
watch. Most of tiie metal buttons on
the coats ha<i been melted by the in
tense heat
<I.\TKKN IIOI1IKS I'Ot \1>
IV \\ Iti'.CK OK Zi:i'l'KI,l\
A police officer testified to having
seen three burning bodies near the
propeller or" the wrecked airship. They
still were burning when the airship
came to land One of the men had
his legs burned off and another his
arms as far as the elbows. In all, six
teen bodies were recovered. The
telegraph announces that they "will be
given a military funeral on Wednes
day.
Lieutenant Robinson took his pilot's
certificate on his twentieth birthday.
On .tun<- 7 Sublieutenant A. .1. Warn
ford. of the Canadian corps, destroyed
a Zeppelin at a height of H.nflO feet, be
tween Client and Brussels, lie was
awarded ihe Victoria Cross. A few
days later, while living near Paris with
Henry Reach Xeedham. an American
magazine writer, he fell to earth, and
both were killed.
ALL EFFORTS FUTILE
A mericaii llfil ('ran* ("tin t.ive \o
Belief to Slnrtlnjf
Serbian*.
WASH INC.TON. September .*>.?Ameri
can Minister Vopicka. accredited to
Itouinania. Serbia and Bulgaria, :?d
vised the State Department to-day that
American I tec! Cross efforts for relief
of starving Serbians would be futile at
tins time. His message gave no par
ticulars as to what makes relief meas
ures impossible, but officials hero be
lieve fhe entrance of Roumania into
the Hat is the primary cause.
The Red Cross had planned to secure
foodstuffs for the famine victims in
Serbia from Roumania, and it is now
believed that, Roumania having entered
the hostilities, it will lie impossible to
obtain there wheat, corn, or supplies,
which are being conserved for Ron-!
mania's military and civil purposes.
HELD UP BY BRITISH
Aniericnu Steamer Stopped In South '
Atlantic and Member of Crou
Taken Off.
I'KNSACOLA, Wl.A., September 5.?
The American steamer Marcus h.
i'rann, which arrived here to-day from
I'ernambuco, was held up in the south
Atlantic on July "I by a British
cruiser and a member of her crew
seized, according to Captain Richard
son. 'The schooner was bound from
Norfolk to Pernambuco.
Captain Rlchardsop reported the
stopping of his vessel to government
officials here. He said in his report
that British naval officers came
aboard his ship, examined his papers
and the cre.w list and seized H. Ifer
clesen, a crew member, who had
shipped as a German citizen.
Captain Richardson said the officers
refused to tflve the oamu of the cruiser.
Capture Three Lines of Trenches,!
Penetrating to Depth of
2,000 Yards.
POINTED WEDGE IS SQUARED j
Foch Will Hammer German De- j
fenses Until Combles, Peronne ;
and Bapaume Fall.
I Special Cabla tn The Tinies-Dispateh.] |
I'AUIS, September .V?The smashing!
blows which General Koch has deliv
ered north and south of th<- Somme in
a week have transformed the pointed
wedge in the Gorman lines into a
square block which will hammer Gen
eral \oii Gallwit/.'s defenses til! Com- j
| bles, I'eronne and Itapaume f;ili and
j the German retreat from the N'oyon !
I salient is a military necessity imposed |
j by the allies, Independently of llin-j
denburg's new strategy.
The secret of tiie whole French sue- j
(his summer is tn?- magnificent j
being made of the innumerable j
heavy suns and the mountains of shells j
which Munitions Minister Thomas had
j budgeted fcr the end of last year. I
! The production only recently reached
| the proportions which the general staff
j calculated as necessary to roll hack the
i Teuton army.
1 General Foch is holding his latest |
i gains, not witii the. bayonet, but with I
j field and machine guns, a staff ufllcer j
j told me. The predominant role of the
; infantry masses is not to storm
| trenches, but merely to occupy them]
i after guns liavo located their where
abouts, and not to lose their strength
in hand-to-hand combats, but merely
to consolidate the captured lines, while
the gunners and the Machine sections
prevent the Germans reapproachlng
their lost grounds.
Herein lies the whole difference be-]
tween the Sommc battle and the Arras
and Champagne offensive of last year.
] Generals Joffre and Ilaig decline to
1 make any verbal reply to the German
' allegation with which the United States
was flooded last month, that the Soinm* |
offensive is played out, and that the]
I allies are wantonly sacrificing human
? life: that the defense has been so per*
fected silica the drive aegati that it i
is useless to attempt to oreak through.
I bit they Intend to make such allega-j
i lions ridiculous before September is
I ended.
KtVK-HOl'K STltl tilil.i:
.\uvAvr.\(ii;oi s to ai.liks
With the extension of the battler to
I the south of the Sommc yesterday, the
armies were locked in a Jive-hour
struggle, the upshot of v. hich was a
i distinct gain for the allies. The buttle
j field is divided into two sectors. The
| first part is the front from Thlepval
I to the south of Clery. held by the
j Freneh-llritish contingents, the two]
I forces joining hands around Falfpmont
farm. The objjc ive of this ;:reat army
j is Combles. from which town tIte Brit
ish are one mile distant, while the
French are only a ijuartcr of a mile
j away.
General Koch's reports do not hide]
: the fact that the Germans are going'
I to put up a terrific, tight before they
I let go of such an important position.
They already have consented to heavy
sacrifices to save t'ombles by a counter
attack against the French east of I.e
Korest. under barrage fire.
j The other sector of the battle field
runs from the Somme River to t'haulnes,
which is now in German hands. Before
Peronne can l>e tackled the German line!
j south of the Somme must be drivt n in. I
] and yesterday's successful onslaught
; along a twelve-mile front was prepara
tory to ilie envelopment of I'eronne.
Southwest of Harleux the Krench
] captured three lines of trenches, pene
| tinting to a depth of 2,n0i) yards, while
further south a fierce attack gave Gen
] ernl Koch the villages of Soyecourt and
Chilly. bringing the number of villaires
retaken since July 1 up'to t wenty-nine.
Between Vermatnlovlllors and Mnu
j court the tirst lino was curried along
(two and a half miles, and the defenses
] were pierced north <>f Chilly after fourj
I hours of bloody fighting, which re
; stilted in the envelopment of l.'JUO tler
| mans with cannon and machine guns
and the capture of the village.
KHF.NCH I VI1H) 1(11.1. NO. NIJ
IN IIKSCKIIATI-: \SS\I I.T
I'ursiiing their advantage, the French
carried hill No. St', by assault The
J maximum depth of the push here was
fine mile, which carried them to the
| outskirts of t lie woods west of
f'haulues. which, like Combles. is in
imminent danger of falling, although
both tow ns ate bristling with the best
defense works the Germans have been
[able to ctjuist rui t.
That General von Gallwity. fully ex
pected a great blow to fall in tjie region
of ('hattlues is demonstrated by the fact
that he ordered General von Helm, who
is in charge of this sector, to disengage
the town and furnished troops for six
furious immediate counterattacks, all
of which broke down lamentably, the
Teutons being unable to penetrate the
deadly barrages.
The weather has been absolutely
against a revival of the offensive this
week. Phenomenal rains have fallen
since the preliminary cannonade began,
compelling the suspension of the artil
lery work and giving the Germans ad
ditional time to meet the infantry at
tacks. However, the troops have not
been launched until air photographs
showed that all obstacles had been
razed. In recent months photographic
observations from aeroplanes have
vastly Improved, and with their air
command the French are able to ob
tain records from great heights In dull
and rainy weather.
A gale swept over the battle field
to-day, making nerlal observations Im
possible. and again delaying the push.
TRAVKL BY BOAT TO nAl/TIMOKE.
An Ideal water trip. J3.50 one Way;
H.60 round trip. XOUK lUVlill IjINJQ.
Caught in Crap Game;
Couldn't Meet Wilson
1 I I.I'KI'IJII, VA.. Mfplrmhrr .I?
??Coonrjr,** Dr. Ciiry I". llrnrKon'*
tin If-breed boyhood limiting com
panion, ?vn? mtt in IiIm iii'i'ilitliiinril
place on tlir xtation platform lo
dny when tlir Kpeciiil (ruin carrying?
PrcMldent WIIkoii from Horizon vllle.
K y.. to WiiNhliiKton pulled Into <"ul
IM'IMT. Thr I'rmldonl and 111*
pliynlclnn came out and were look
ing nii.iiounty nliout for llir gaunt
figure when mimic one in tlir wait
ing iTinvii hnndrd up tliln note, ad
ilrrMHi-il to t)r. (?rnyNoni
our friend, fnoiiey, nun caught
In ii crap (."nine In h t n Ik lit. ii nd In
locked iiji. He rrcrrti hr cannot
*ee yon. lint ItupeN you will Rive hi*
riTiirdN to llie rrexldeitt."
Senator .Inlin Sharp \V illlaiiis. a
ineiulier of tiie I'renldeii t'n iiarty,
miKKi'ilnl that wlien Wanliliigt ott
wstn reached n telegram lie went to
t lie t?o\ ernor of \ Irginin urging a
pa rdon.
GERMANY IS PREPARING
ULTIMATUM FOB GREECE
Berlin About Kratl.v to Take Action,
Following Athens's Submis
sion to Ktitente.
CLIMAX CAN T HK LOXCi DFLAVKD
livery Indication That Another Na
tion Will He Filtered Formally in
hist of Knemies of Central Fmpires
Within Few Days.
(Special Cable to The Times- Dispatch.]
LONDON*. September 0.?That Gcr
maiiy is prcpa ring to take action
against Greece as a result of that
country's submission to the demands of
the entente, which include tlie expul
sion of all Teutonic aponis from the
country, is indicated in dispatches
from Amsterdam.
I lie fact that Greece has allowed
forces from allied battleships to hunt
| down Hermans and Austria mm in the
( streets of Athens is considered an ut
jter violation of neutrality, and it Is
reported that an ultimatum is in pro
cess of preparation at Berlin. Parlia
mentary leaders have been called into
conference l?> the Imperial Chancellor,
Dr. von nethmann-llollweg, ami early
action is expe.'leil.
Meanwhile, owing to the unfavorable
impression created in the public mind
at Athens by the sight of foreign land
ing parties making arrests of the sub
jects of neutral countries, the French
and British mlninters are reported to
have agreed to allow the. Greek police
to make what arrests remain to he
made. So great was the popular hos
tility to the action of the allies that
street battles are i>ported to have oc
curred In Athens, arid several persons
have been wounded.
a<;iii:h to ai.i.ow <;iii:i-:< r.
TO JIAKK FlItTIIFIt AltltlCSTS
| As a result. Premier Zaimls made
'strong representations to the French
and l'.ritish ministers, with the result,
according to a ne-vs agency dispatch
from the Greek capital, that the diplo
mats agreed to altow Greece herself
to make any further arrests.
Greece is making quiet preparations
to enter the war at an early date, ac
cording to/ Athens dispatches. Five
classes of reset vists already have been
remobillzed, it is stated, and to-day
.>00 Greeks who have residences in the
failed Slates were prevented from
embarking upon a liner for Vew York.
1 hey made a vigorous protest, and later
engaged in a street d? ministration bit
fore the otllcc of Premier Zaltnls. Po
lice guards dispersed them. As a re
sult. sailings from Piraeus for tho
I nited Slates hav been positioned.
A Central News dispatch assert3
th.it allied agents have found many
letters from German sides in the Greek
mails whi Mi. together with the telo
(fraphs, they are already supervising
and censoring as a result of the Greek
government's submission to their dc
m a nds.
fOXSTA.VTI.M.: Ffl/l.\
II Kt 'O VI.'JHS Ills IIKAl.TIf
King Constantine has fully recov
ered his health, according to a Ketiter
dispatch, but lo-ilay refused to grant
an audience to a deputation of Veni/.el
Ists on a plea of Illness. .Meanwhile,
revolutionary activities continued in
the Saloniki district, ami. in fact, a
great part of Macedonia. The com.
mit tee on national defense, which I*
an outgrowth of the Vcnizelist move
ment. has taken over the reins of gov-I
ei nincnt In these sec ions, const It tiling
itself a government within a govern
ment. It frankly certifies to its inten
tions to cause a general uprising r.f
Greeks against the Rn.gatlan invaders,
and has announced that it will estab
lish court-martials and a press bureau.
Tlie chiefs of ihe movement declare
no effort will i.r made to set aside (ho
national constitution.
CITY OF VENICE BOMBED
?\o Damage I* |Mit Three Are
Killed. In liurlxlii and Church
"f St. .lolin llil.
UOM13. September r. i via London I.-?
An Austrian naval aeroplane squadron
dropped bombs on Venice on Monday
night without doing any damage, says
an ofliclal statement issued here to-dav. I
On Sunday and Monday nights Aus
trian aircraft dropped bombs on
Gorizia and three other towns in that J
vicinity. Three persons were, killed in
Gorizia and the roof of the Church
of St. John was damaged.
The statement says:
"During Sunday evening hostile air
?rnfr dropped bombs on Mariano, and
yesterday evening on Llicinico. Sdraus
sina and Clorlzia. Three dead and some
wounded were reported in Gorizia. The
roof of the Church of St. John there
waH damaged seriously.
"A seaplane squadron during Mon
day night dropped twenty bombs on
yonlce without doing Rny damueo,"
ENTENTE WEDGES
DRIVEN FURTHER
INTD GERMAN LINE
French and British Draw
More Closely About Pe
ronne and Combles. '
MANY POINTS OF VANTAGE
ALONG SOMME CAPTURED
Both North and South of River
Teutons Are Driven
Back.
MANY I'HI SON KKS TAKKN
Violent Fight intr Kast "From Pri
pet Marshes to Carpalliinn
Passes.
I.OXDO.V, September ?">.?Gradually
the linos of tlu* entente allies are draw
ing more closely about Cotnbles ami
toward I'eronne. and farther and
fart Iter their vvoil^ts are being driven
into German lines both north and
south of the river Sonime. On a front
<>f about twenty-live miles the French
and I'.ritish troops, supported power
j fully by their enormous artillery arm.
| are steadily hammering the Gorman
j positions and sustaining, unflinchingly.
heavy counterattacks.
| North of the Sonime, to the east and
southeast of Forest, the French have
| driven forward their lines, capturing
I the outskirts of the Anderlu wood,
I Hospital farm and the Rainnette wood
and part of Marriere wood, and a posi
tion on the road leading from Boucha*
vesnes to Clery.
llltlTISit .11AKK lUtOt.'HlOSS
NORTH OK (Jl'Il.I.EMOM'
Near Ginehy, to the north of Guille
mont, tlie Rritish have made further
progress, winning all the territory bo
tween the Falfemont farm and Beuzti
wood, and between that, wood and tho
outskirts of the town of Ginehy, which
they captured and have held since tho
fighting of Sunday.
South of the Somnie tho French have
taken -the town of Chilly, situated one
mile west of the railroad leading from
Chaulnes to Koye. a. line of trenches
east of Soyeeourt and numerous iso
lated positions between Vermandovil
lers and Chilly. Since Sunday the
French alono have takon on tho Komme
front 0.550 prisoners and tlilrty-six
guns, twenty-eight o* them being of
heavy caliber.
On the eastern front violent fighting
continues from the Pripet Marsh re
gion, in Volhynia, through Galicia, and
up in the Carpathian passes, with tho
Russians reporting successoB near
Vladimir-Volynslci, and a continuance
of their advance toward the plains of
Hungary through tho Carpathians.
Berlin reports that in Galicia, in the
region of Brzezany, and near Fundul
Moldowl, in the Carpathian region,
heavy Russian attacks were repulsed
in the latter district with heavy casual
t ies.
KOMTIKIKD RlimUEIIICAI)
TAKKX FIIOM IlOUMAXfA\S
in Eastern Rouinania, the Germans
and Bulgarians have captured the for
tified bridgehead 01 the Tutrakan, and
the Hulgarians tho town of Dobrlo,
while Petrograd reports the cutting
down of a Bulgarian outpost by Rus
sian cavalry in Its tirst engagement
with the Invaders on Roumanian soil.
Near Ognott, in Turkish Armenia,
violent fighting between Turks and
Russians is talcing place. Roth Petro
grad and Constantinople report suc
cesses for their respective armies.
Tho Italians report success in tha
Anstro-Ttalian theater. Aside from ar
tillery activity there has been no light
ing in the Macedonian theater.
Groeoe has not yet announced her
Intentions with regard to her future
stand in the war. Unofficial advices
say that tho Greek authorities have
taken from the British and French
secret polioe the task of arresting
Austro-Gerinan agents, who will ho
apprehended by the Greeks and de
ported. Unofficial reports say that
ilvo classes of Greek reservists havs
been called to the colors.
I.KKMAVS AUK 17rriii.ren
KHOM MA.W POSITIONS
PARIS, September 5.?The French
troops have captured the village of
Omnilccouit. Hospital farm, Rainnette
I wood ami part of Marriere wood and
progressed in other regions north of
the SoiN^ne, according to the official
communication issued by the War
j Office to-night.
j South of the Sonime a furious battle*
raced throughout tho day. The French
| captured a line of German trenches
and repulsed all counterattacks. Tho
prisoners captured since September 3
number and tho cannon ttiirty
s i .\.
The text reads:
"On the Sonimo front, despite the
bad weather, our troops continued to
progress, .uul during the day obtained
important advantages. North of the
river, after a series of brilliant actions.
In which our troops gave proof of
Irresistible spirit, we pushed our lino
into the district east of Forest. Wo
reached the west outskirts of Anderlu
wood, took by storm \ .pital farm and
Raitiette wood, captured part of Mar
riere wood and occupied to the north
east of Clery the extremity of a hill
traversed by the road from Boucha
vesnes to Clery.
"We also strengthened our positions
north of the river, connecting them
with the southern bank and taking tho
village of Omniiecourt, whleh is en
tirely In our hands.
"Tho war material taken since Sep
tember 3 In the north sector Includes
thirty-two guns, of which twenty-four
are heavy guns, two bomb throwers,
two trench guns, an important stock oC
150-milllmotor shells, one captlvo baU
