HE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAB
8 PGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, WEDNESDAY .MORNING, SEPTEMBER 6, 1916
8 PAGES
VOL. XXVII., NO. 110
TT Tf
Mil
T
ES W nj.3G.ES . ), . ..V..i
FRENCH AND BRITISH TROOPS
STILL HliiERING AT GE1ANS
AND FACING COUNTER ATTACKS
(By Republican Associated Press Leased Wire)
Lines of the entente allies are drawing more closely about Combles and
toward Peronne and their wedges are being driven into the German lines
north and south of the Somme. French and British troops still are hammer
inn the German positions and sustaining heavy counter attacks.
North of the Somme the French have taken outskirts of the Anderlu
wood, Hospital farm, and the Rainnette wood and part of Marrieres wood
and a position on the road leading from Bouchavesnes to Clery.
British have won alt the territory between the Falfemont farm and Leuze
wood and between that wood and Ginchv which they captured Sunday.
South of th Somme the French have taken Chilly, a line of trenches east
of Soyecourt and numerous isolated positions between Vermandovilleres and
Chilly. Since Sunday the French have taken 6.550 prisoners and 36 guns.
On the eastern front, violent fighting continues from the Pripet marsh
reoion through Galicla and up in the Carpathian oasses, with Russians report
ing successes near Vladimir-Volynski and a continuance of their advance
toward the plains of Hungary through the Carpathians. Berlin reports that
in the region of Bntezany, and in the Carpathian region, heavy Russian at
tacks were repulsed.
Germans and Bulgers have caotured the fortified brigade head of Tutra
kan and th. Bulgars the town of Dobric, while Petrograd reports the cut
ting down of a Bulgarian outpost by Russian cavalry.
Near Ogdott in Turkish Armenia, violent fighting between Turks and Rus
sians is taking place. Both Petrograd and Constantinople report fierce fight
ing. Greece has not yet officially announced her intentions with regard to
her future stand in the war but unoffi cial reports say that five classes of
Greek reservists have been called to the colors.
French are Progressing
oati e. Tha i-'wnch troons
have captured the village of omnut-
. , ... , ....,,,
cowrt. hospital farm P.ainettc wood
and part of u wood anJ
progressed in other regions no. th of
the Somme, according to the o.ficial,
communication Issued by the war of-.
fice tonight. ., v,
South of the Somme a furious ba-
tie raged throughout the daj . The ,
French captured a line of Oe rn an
trenches and repulsed a counter at-
Ir . , ..-. "i:x i
September, number C,;id0 and the
cannon 36.
Vigorous counter attacks were made
hv the Germans north of the Somme
last night in an effort to regain
ground taken in the new drive of the
French.
The war office announced today
that the Germans were repulsed with
heavy losses.
The capture of Soyecourt and Chilly
by the French yesterday, makes a
total of twenty-nine villages taken
inee the start of the offensive on the
Somme front.
The positions wrested from the Ger
mans yesterday were powerfully or
ganized. British Increase Gains
.LONDON. Sept. 5. British troops
In- battle last night in the region oi
th river Somme In France, increased
their gains In the neighborhood of
Giilllemorit.
The British forces rushed forward
to 1 500 yards east of (Juillemont vil
lage and secured a hold on the Leuze
wood.
Further outh. n strong German
jrystem of defense on a front of 3.0O0
feet around Falfemont farm was cap
tured. The official announcement rays that
the fighting on the Somme since Sep
tember has resulted In the rapture
by the Rritish of the whole of th.1
German second line of defenses on the
battle front, from Monouet farm to
the point where the British line Joins
ihe French.
"Prisoners continue to be brought in
:m-1 the total up to last ni'lit slm-r
the morning of September 3 exceeds
l.O'iO.
"Fiehtine in Ginchv continues."
A British official statement issued
this afternoon renorting military op
erations In the Salonikl war theater,
says:
"The enemy on Sunday .night op
ened Tlfle fire on' our troops south of
Orlwar on the Struma front, but no
Attack develojed.
"On the Doirun front thre have
heen patrol encounters at Ma-ukovo
sin-l Krastall."
Riilcarian and Geriw.-s Gain
BERLIN, Sept. 6. The German and
Bulgarian army which Is Invading
eaiiVrn Rumania, his carriod by storm
the fortified advanced position at th"
hrtdgehead of TutrVan. The Bul
garians have taken Dobric.
The announcement says:
"German and Bulgarian troops
idormed the fortified advanced posi
tions at the bridcehend of Tutrnkan.
The town of Pobric has been taken
GERMANS ARE FORCED TO RETIRE
DHDER BRITISH MACHIME GUM
(Special to Th Republican) i
WITH THE BRITISH ARMIES IN
FRANCE, Sept. 5. (Via London.)
Despite their determined counter at
tacks yesterday, when they advanced
in waves, shoulder to shoulder, in de
fense of this- chosen strategic point,
the Germona had to yield Falfemont
farm thin morning.
The British had closed around it In
the darkness and dawn found the sur
vivors of th garrison raked with ma
chine gun fire. In a Hopeless situation,
plastered with mud after a night of
cold and heavy rain, and having gone
two dava without sleep, they put up
the white flag.
J4eanwhlle a British battalion, finding
little opposition, on Its own initiative,
pressed on through the mud .and the
hell cratern and gained the edge of
Ieuze wood, which carried them past
Jinchy, where the Germans are forti
fied amid the rulna with nesta of ma
chine guns.
The British gain since Sunday Is
more than a mile in depth. Irish troops
of the new army, enlisted through the
efforts of John Redmond and other na
tionalist leaders, distinguished them
xelves by -taking Ouillemont.
They rounded no numerous prison
era in dugouts and swept forward to
by the Bulgarians. Bulgarian cavalry
oi:cTse1 wever.il Rumanian Daiianons.
"German naval aeroplanes dropped
bombs on Constanza and also on Rus-
( airships
bombarded Bucharest and the mineral
estabI!shment at pioest yth good
The statemeilt says:
"Our troops between Forest and the
are engaged In hot fighting,
he- rJver Hur forcM are
dmg themselves against a storm-
. n on a lWentv-kilometer wide
f - ont from I arleux soutn to . nuiy.
The village of Chilly has been lost
"On the right bank of the Meuse
new French attacks east of Fleury
and at Sopville defile were repulsed."
West of the river, the Germans are
defending themselves on a front
eighteen miles wide which the entente
allies ar storming.
The loss of the village of Chilly by
the Germans is conceded.
There has been no cessation of the
'euvv fighting in Galicia since the
inauguration of the new Russian drive.
The official announcement today
say the Russians attacked epeatediv
yesterday near Brzebany, fifty mile
southeast of Lemberg, but were driven
tack
In Turkish Armenia
PETROGRAD. Sept. 5 Fierce bat
tles are in progress In the region west
of Ognott in Turkish Armenia.
Tli Turkhh troops are said to he
retreating hurriedly and are reported
to have burned their ammunition
stores
"In the region southwest of the
town of Sukkiz in Persia," today's
statement adds, "we are pressing the
enemy."
Russians and Bulgarians are fight
ing l.i Rumania. The first clash be
tween the Bulgarians, who have in
vaded eastern Rumania, nnd the Rim
Wans, who went in to assist Rumania,
occurred yesterday.
MUST CONTRIBUTE TO FEE
f Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN FRANCISCO, Sept. 5. All the
minority bondholder of the Western
Pacific railroad who did not Join In the
reorganization plan -must contribute
to the payment of the $10,000 fee
awarded a San Francisco law firm, ac- j
cording to a decision rendered today in
the United States district court by
.Tudge William C. Vanfleet. The court
held that Judge M. T. Dooling's order
confirming the sale of the road made
this provision. The legal firm repre
sented the Union Savings Bank of San
Francisco, owner of a comparatively
small number of bonus, which inter
vened in the foreclosure proceedings
to have a high upset price set by the
court for the sale of the road.
TO REOPEN CANAL
'Republican A. P. Leared Wlrel
PANAMA. Sept. 5. It is expected'
mat the Panama canal will be fully
opened to traffic tomorrow. Nine ves
sels are waiting on the Pacific side and
ten on the Atlantic side for passage
through the waterway, which has been
blocked by an earth movement which
ofciiired about a weeir ago.
EIRE
ward their objective with characteristic
dash.
As a result of two days' work, the
British, in case they decide to make
no further advance this year command
all the ridge of battle from Thiep
val south, except around Glnchy. This
means also that "the Germans would
have to dance to our tune through the
winter."
Vouble" Zepps
Mail Here
TRepubllcan A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO. Sept. 5. Two "double
Zeppelins, unarmed and each with a
carrying capacity of sixty tons, have
been built in Germany to carry mail
between Berlin and the United States,
according to statements here today by
Morris Epstein, agent of the German
American Alliance, who returned from
Europe today.
Epstein said the Zeppelins had been
christened "Amerika" and "Dentsch
land." They can make the aerial voy-
Senate Passes Emergency Revenue Bill at Night Session
& & J& , ' J& j& -' ;
JAPAN MAKES DRASTIC DEMANDS
n-
WOODMAN IS CHOSEN
MAYOR OF LOS ANGELES
LOS ANGELES, Cal., Sept. 5.
Frederick T. Woodman, president
of the Los Angeles board of harbor
commissioners, was elected mayor
of Los Angeles today by the city
council, to succeed Charles E. Se
bustiun, who resigned Saturday as
a result of ill health. Woodman
will serve the unexpired term of
ten months.
u 1
.1
BE FRIENDLY
Republican A. P. Leased Wlr
TOKIO, Sept. 3. E'.bert H. Gary,
chairman of the board of directors of
the United States Steel corporation,
was the guest of honor at a banquet
here tonight that was attended by men
high in political life and business. Mr.
Gary referred to statements which he
said were occasionally published in
th-? United States and perhaps in Ja
pan, with regard to the possibility of
a serious conflict between the two
countries at seine time in the future.
He declared that all the business men
in the United States did not antici
pate any trouble between the United
tales and Japun.
"They would stubbornly oppose and
suggestion of a conflict with all th"
force and influence nt their com
mand" said Mr. Gary. "This un
doubtedly is the pervading and con
trolling sentiment of citizens generally
throughout the United States il
America."
The speaker told of the drsire. uf
the United States to retain the friend,
hip and co-operation of Japan in
world development. The American
people, he said, did not look with
iealoiis eyes on the .strength and rapid
irov.th of Japan, but on the contrary
-vould applaud her successes.
Mr. Gary Insisted that every ques
tion arising between the two countries
"ou Id be fi.mlly settled if submitted
o a representative body of citizens
if Japan and the United States whose
will iheir respective government
vould be bound to respect. He urged
business men to unite to combat the
influence of demagogues and other
who are actuated by selfish designs.
"Japan end America," concluded Mr.
"isry. "have the desire and the bralr.
'o work together while honorably an?
fairly pursuing separate lines or ac
tivity." The address plainly impressed Mr
Gary's auditors, who vc iced their ap
proval of it by frequent applause and
later by personal congratulations.
Mr. nnd Mrs. Gorv are beinf mad.
the recipients of unusual honors dur
ing their tour of the empire. They
have been officially greeted in every
city by governors and inavors and have
oecn gven imposing receptions in To
klo In addition to a seres of pinche
ons and dinners.
! o
Commissioners
at New London
For Conference
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW LONDON, Conn., Sept. 5.
Members of the American-Mexican
joint commission arrived here today
aboard the presidential yacht May
flower, prepared to enter conferenc
tomorrow.
Luis Cabrera, head of the Mexican
commission, will preside at the first
meeting. Secretary Lane, head fit the
American commission, will conduct
the following session and the two will
alternate as presiding officers there
after.
Border military conditions will b
first discussed. It seems likely that
the withdrawal of General Perahing'i
troops from Mexico and the terms ol
the protocol to cover future campaigns
against bandits will be coupled to'
gether.
Leaves New York
NEW YORK. Sept. 5 The American
and Mexican joint commission which
will undertake to settle international
difficulties left on the presidents
vacht Mayflower today for New Imu
don, Conn. There the first conference:
wltl t,e held tomorrow.
to Carry
From Germany
age between Berlin and New York in 72
hours, he said.
"They are so constructed," said Ep
stein, "that they can rise higher than
any aeroplane and thus escape hostile
aviators. They also can descend to
the water and travel there under their
own power."
Epstein said the postage charges for
this service have already been arranged
and would be the regular international
postage, plus one mark, or 25 cents for
each letter. ,
1
line, .
APOLOGY AND
CONCESSIONS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Sept. 5. Sweep
ing and drastic demands are revealed
in the secret terms being pressed on
China by Japan. Private dispute-he-:
reve-il that Junan seeks indemnities,
in apology nnd political concession.
The four formal demands are quot
ed as follows:
1. Punishment of the commanding
oil leer involved in the military trouule try between man and man. I want
in inner Mongolia. (to se evei y part of class antagonism
2. Dismissal, with punishment, of vunith In the presence of the applica
ble other offic ers involved. jtion of . Just principles. I want what
instructions to ( hinese troops In
iffected chsiri:t not to inlerfere with
Japanese troops or civilians.
4. Recognition of "specia: interest"
for Japan in inner Mongolia and
south Manchuria comprising isjwers
of police and administration, prefer
ence to leans and thet selection of all
foreign advisors, etc.
Besides the four "demands" are
four "concessions." which China is
isked to grant Japan without formal
Jemand. as follows:
1. Th Chinese army in south
Manchuria and eastorn Mongolia to
mploy "Japanese military advisers.
2. Chinese schools and colleges M
have Japanese military inspectors.
This is not limited to any section.
3. A formal apology in person from
'he Chinese governor at Mukden to
the Japanese governor' at Dairen and
ine japanes" consul hi muiuien- lori,, . . 'l-n i
he Cheng Chiatum trouble. jlllilL r ruiKUSCO V UUl IS lliaKIUg Ills WilV 10 1116 HOrTIlWeSt
famn'Tc jnpUknied hMwith the intt'iitioii of attacking a portion of General J. J.
ZT.M ,,e seUlPd. U,er by ""-'IVrslriiig's expeditionary force was considered at Major'
secretary Lansing refused tonight (ieiicral Fuihstoii's heacLiuai'ters toniulit. General Fuus-
:n outline what might be the attitude , ... ti- iii;, ii, ,
.f the American government, it is ton said lie regarded it prooalile that ilia was planning
Cn th" 1 fmi to engage tlie Americans.
smJaaTnfLt ' giancem to' be ' " wp "Rv have some excitement soon," he observed.
more deerly involved than in any j He tllOUgllt til 010 is lllelltv of tillK' to Set l'Cadv for Vil-
famous ultimatum to China of Ma".
lKC'i. Japan seeiis more than everi
vbich are interpreted in Peking as
lestr.iying China's soverignty in that!
.vhole enormous section. I
Secial attention is centered on the;
ormai apology
peron from the .
hinese governor in Mukden To the j
lappnese governor at IHirien and the
hmanese consul at Mukden.
But it is the political articles which opens near Laguna station on the rail- ,S', Kfyes
anse deepest anxiety to Washington way to juarez. they believe it possible I J,lll Avino, alleged to be the leader
ifficials. Recognition of "special
iRhts" is open to the most extreme
nterpretation. and might cut directly
icrss the American policy or tne
ntecritv of China. Also, it has in it.
TossiMliitiec of violation of the open
loor policy.
Japanese already have won the
right to their own courts and in
many places their own police. The
Mnplovment of Japanese military ad
visers for Chinese forces is thought
o be a first move to secure Japanese
!ontril of China's armed forces there.
Will informed Chinese sources nee
nothing for China hut submission
'hina is in no conditicn to oner
irrious resistence. Her financial
ondltlon is desjwrate and her army
oorly equipped. Moreover, the pres
ent niiarrel is verv close to Japan's
forces along the Manchurian railroad
and considerably removed from China s
oase.
No foreign country, save possibly
he t'nlted States, is expected to
iffer objection to Japan's course be
cause, of conditions abroad and some
lepartments here believe Japan has
'hosn the time to put in force her
'Monroe doctrine" for China.
c'hina's new administration under
President LI Yuan Hung, is reported
o be consolidating itself successfully-
after the confusion caused by Yuan
Shi Ka-i's death. finance presents
the most insuperable difficulty at
present.
The seriousness oi me suuauon wat
heightened today with reports of an
other confpet between Chinese and
Japanese troops at Chaoyangpo. Pri
vate advices from Peking claim that
the Japanese troops attacked the
blneoe garrison there. The Japanese
(Continued on Page Two,
o
To Make Test
of the Adamson
Eight Hoar Law
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO, Sept. 5. A blanket test
case of the Adamson eight-hour law
is planned by all of the railroads, ac
cording to statements today by G.
Lathrop, general solicitor of the Atchi
son, Topeka & Santa Fe. Lahtrop said
the individual roads now have their
legal staffs working out the details
separately and will compare conclu
sions later and formulate a blanket
case at the same time.
Employes of the railroads, other than
the members of the four brotherhoods,
are to make a determined fight upon
the law, according to Robert Frazier,
an employe of the Nashville, Chatta
nooga & St. Louis railroad, here to
day. He claimed to have secured many
signers to a petition to congress pro-
testing against the law.
INVESTIGATION FIRST
THEN LEGISLATION
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LEXINGTON. Ky.. Sept. 5. Charles
K. Hughes in a speech here today
condemned "legislation in adancei of
investigation" and declared that the
United States "had gone very far
toward the day v.lien we Fhull have
action under pressure instead of in
consideration of the facts."
The nominee's remarks were inter
preted by mini-, in the audience as
apidving to the Adam.son law.
" e have a new spirit abroad in
America." be said. It is the spirit
that demands legislation in advance
of investigation. It is the spirit of
force, it is not American.
'I desire fair dealing in this coun-
(Republican A.
SAX AXTOXIO, Texas,
la s coming.
In Touch With Plotter
CHIHCAHVA CITY. Mex., Sept. 5.
Militapiauthorities here say they have
no dout" that Villa is in constant com- 1
munientinn with revolutionary nlotfer t
n El Paso and that his movement to -
ward the Santa Clara canyon is timed i
for nolitlcal effect. As "the canvon 1
that he may attempt to hold up trains. I
Iarge garrisons are stationed along the 1
road, however, and the likelihood of his ;
being able to dash across and strike at I
the Pershing expedition is small.
The reason why ilia slipped north-
ward across the railway near Bustillos :
is attributed by staff officers here to
the continuous persecution by the con
stitutionalists to the south. In this
pursuit they say the government
troops were at a decided disadvantage,
as they were forced to respect the
guarantee given to the ranchers, while
Villa could help himself to fresh
mounts. The bandits are reported not
only well mounted, but to have a large
number of spare horses and mules.
Santa Clara canyon has two rivers
ana pieniy or green leea, which will
give tne viuistas a chance to reenper-
ate. But the fact they avoided a fight
un me garrison ai uuerachic. for
which they first headed, is taken here
FUNSTON BELIEVES VILLA PS
PLANNING 10 ENGAGE 111
THDflPS BELOW THE BORDER
EDS OF REFUGEES REAGR
DOUGLAS FROM
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DOUGLAS, Sept. 5. Several hun
dred refugees reached Douglas last
night and today from all parts of
Sonora, some from as far south as
the Sinaloa border, but most of them
from the Cnnanea district, hrinelnf.-
reports that tiniest over the monetary
situation had grown to such an ex
tent that ar. outbreak of hostilities is
expected at any time.
Conflicting rumors as to the in
tentions of Governor Adolfo de la
Huerta with regard to emforcing the
use of Carranza's latest issue of cur
rency in all business transactions
have intensified the feeliug among
laboring m?n all over the state, it is
reported. The army is dissatisfiCt)
because of being paid in the Car
ranza money and desertions are de
cimating the ranks.
Arrivals from Cananea Ray if De la
Huerta forces the employers to cease
paying in silver and to pay in Car-
rar.7a "bilimhiques." a general strike,
which will result in rioting is feared
For that reason all the more timid
Mexicans are leaving the district.
It was learned from a reliable
source that 'he governor issued a de
cree two weeks ago. ordering the
executive use of Carranza currency
throughout the state, demonetizing
diver, gold and all other mediums of
exchange except the "infalsaficable"
Issue, and ordering the arrest of any
one attempting to use any ot'ier sort
of money than the depreciated paper.
Only the Ftrenuous efforts of his
HoTt friemi'.s has caused him to re
frain from issuing the decret order-
ON CHINA
is reasonable for labor. There is
one thing ttiat underlies all. and that
is that in all our efforts to secure
what is Just, that We keep the price
less institutions of this land which
distinguish us as a free country.
"It may he very important that
here or there. there shall be a change
in the wage scale. I should be the
first to recognize any demand that
is Just."
Judge Hughes reached Louisville at
8 o'clock today en route to Lexington
from Nashville and held a brief con
ference on his private car with A. T.
Hert, western representative of the
republican national committee. it
was announced that Judge Hughes
would visit the training camp at
Plittshurg. N. V.. on September -and
return to New York September 13.
Mr. Hughes- left here for Cincin
nati at 6:2il p m.
P. Leased Wire)
Sept. 5. The possibility
i ,
as proof of their shortage of ammuni
tion. , "enerai .apoionio
1 rnm ""T,0" that h
General Apolonio Trevino reported
is men drove sev-
enteen lllistas, the remains of the
rern,sa Danu- ?'
out of Charcos del Rio,
caHturins' a l'risone'" and some horses
a.nd r,fJes- Tne band " now led by
OI lne Bata movement in Toneon,
was. arrls.t?.d t!lere today and is being
lo n'nuanua ror trial,
''enpral Trevino today denied the re
ports current in El Paso that the gar
risons at Pearson and Anchondo had
revoIJpd- . The general expressed his
gratification at the reception given in
me i nitea states to the Mexican com
missioners and expressed optimism
concerning the result of the conference.
o
STEAMER KELVINA SUNK
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEWPORT NEWS. Va.. Sept. 5.
Caule advices received hero tody fron.
London slated that the British steam
er Kelvina, from Avonmouth to this
port nas been sunk. There were no
casualties. The cable did not state
the manner in which the steamer m
' her end. The Kelvina left here Aug-
ust 17 with a raren of mules anrl iren.
era! merchandise.
SINALOA BORDER
ng the strict enforcement, it is said
Urned To Return Home
EL PASO. Sept. r.. Owing to the
ongestion of paupers in Juarez, the
Mexican authorities are now taking
efugees from Zacatecas off at Chi
luanua City and holding them there.
offering them free transportation to
return horns, , according to travelers
irriving here today from Mexico.
While the peon class in Zacatecas
ml for? frim famine; with typhus and
smallpox, there is reported to be
lentv of food in Chihuahua City.
Some thousands of refugoes are said
'o be encamped there.
Feeling Against Wilson
Grows Among Women Voters
republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO, Sept. 5 Miss Anne
Martin, national chairman of the wo
man's party, issued a statement here
today in which she said:
"Feeling agaimtt President Wilson
for his continued opposition to the na
tional suffrage amendment is steadily
growing among 'oman voters. This
statement is based on reports -from our
thirty-six organizers now at work in
the equal suffrage states.
"In California, .where the woman's
party campaign is being managed by
IS DESIGNED 1
TO RAISE BIG
SUM ANNUALLY
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Sept. 5. The ad
ministration emergency revenue bill,
designed to raise J2O5.000.000, annual
ly from taxes on inheritance and war
munitions and from increases in the
income tax, creating a tariff commis
sion, establishing a protective tariff
on dyestuffsr providing for protection
of American firms from "dumping"
at the end of the war, and giving the
president authority to take drastic
retaliatory steps against allied inter
ference with American trade was
passed by the senate, 42 lo 16, late
tonight.
Five republican senators, Cummins,
Kenyon. La Follette, Norris and Clapp
voted for the bill. There Were -no
democratic, nays. .
Amendments for retaliation against
Great Britain for embargoes on Amer
ican goods, the trade blacklist and
interference with the mails, were
agreed to without roll calls and were
unopposed in debate. The ' amend
nents will authorize the president:
To deny use of the United States
mails End other methods of communi
cation to citizens of any belligerent
"Xtion which does not accord those
facilities to American vessels, citi
zens, companies or corporations -
Withhold clearance to any vessel
from American ports which gives "any
advantage whatsoever to any particu
lar person, or institution in the Unit
ed States or its josseFSions, or to
the cili'.ens of the United States re
siding in neutral countries abroad,"
or is subjectine anv of them to "anv
undue discrimination in regard to ac-
epting. receiving, transporting, or
delivering any cargo, freight or pas
sengers." Deny the eommercial privileges and
facilities of the United States to any
ves.sel or citizen of belligerent na
tion which does hot aecdrd full facili
ties of commerce to Amerieap. citi
zens, that are accorded to citizens ef
other nationalities, or . to withhold
clearance to vessels of such belliger
ent nations until "reciprocal liberty of
commerce have been restored."
Emplov the land and naval forces
of the United States to enforce the
'etalip.tory measures; nnd to prohibit
importation of goods into the United
Ststes from nations which prohibit
the imnortation into their own or into
any other country or dependency of
mv legni article produced in the
United States.
Another retaliatory provision would
prohibit the admission of halibut or
almon into the United States from
the Pacific coast through any foreign
nation except in bond from a United
States iwirt. This is directed against
n alleged Canadian monopoly of th
Pacific northwest fish industrv and
is designed to encourage revival of
American fish industry.
The bill creates a tariff commission
to consist of six members to be des
ignated by the president. The com
mission would investlgste the admin
istration and fit-cal effects of the cus
toms laws; relation between the rates
of dutv on raw materials and finished
or partly finished products; effects of
all duties: all questions relating to
the operation of the tariff laws; tariff
-elations between the United States
ind foreign countries, nnd would make
erorts to the ways and means com
mittee of the house and finance com
mittee of the senate.
Salaries of the commissioners were
fixed at $7,500 a year.
A section of the bill would make it
lnlawful to import goods at a price
substantially less than the actual
market value or wholesale price in
the principal markets of the country
of their production. The president in
riv.Mi authority to prohibit importa
tions of this country from nations
which prohibit importations from the
(Continued on Page Two)
1
CARRIES RELIEF FOR
GUARDSMEN'S DEPENDENTS
WASHINGTON, Sept. 5. An
amendment to the emergency rev- I
enue bill offered by Senator Lee of j
Maryland, and accepted tonight by
the senate, extends to all men in I
the service the benefits of the law I
appropriating J2.009.000 for relief I
of dependents of National Guards I
men and regulars sent to the bor- j
der in response to President Wil- j
son's call on June 18. Amend- I
ments also make the law retroact- I
ive to the date of the call. The I
comptroller of the currency recent
ly ruled that tha law did not apply
to men who enlisted after the call
and that payments would not be
made from the period prior to the
signing of the bill.
D
Miss Dorris Stevens, numbers of demo
cratic and progressive leaders have
joined the woman's party In their
fight against the president. The state
will be carried by a united republican
and progressive vote against President
Wilson. In Nevada, a state-wide or
ganization of 2000 women voters, the
Nevada Women's Civic league, has
gone over to the woman's party. In
this state, the woman vote will be the
balance of power. Similar encourag
ing reports have been received from
Arizona and Wyoming." - -
