*.
IV
'V
PPp|!P|P|iRilfFW
THIS PAPER Issued In
Two Sections Section
two—pages 1 to 6—Lo
cal news, stories, corre
spondence and Denlson
locals.
VOL. 51,
COMERCMLCLUB
HOLDS MEETING
Regular Meeting on Friday Evening
Well Attended and Considerable
Business Transacted
PARKING AUTOS IS DISCUSSED
Club Will Sell Present Sprinkler and
Donate Proceeds to City to be
Applied on New Flusher
There was a good attendance at the
'regular monthly business session of
the commcrcial club, held last Friday
evening, and many important matters
were brought to /the attention of the
club. It is pleasing to note the Inter
est that'our business men are taking
in the club and with co-operation much
good will be derived.
Treasurer J. T. Haugh made a report
showing that the club now has on
hand in the treasury $404.62.
Three now members were voted in
to the club Friday evening, they be
ing Geo. Powell, S. Jobe and Roy Geb
ert.
It was .moved by C. F. Kuehnle and
seconded by H. Mann that the names
of 11. E. Mote and J. T. Carey be added
to the bank committee, making that
committee number five. This motion
was carried.
Mr. C. F. Kuehnle made a motion
that the band committee have full
power regarding the finances of the
band, and that they be given power to
purchase any instruments and equip
ment that they deemed necessary. The
motion was seconded by Mr. N. L.
Hunt and carried unanimously.
The club ratified and approved the
contract of Robert Gibler, the new
band master, and instructed the sec
retary of the club to issue a warrant
each month for his salary. The sal
ary of Mr. Gibler has been raised
among the business men of Denison
who have donated liberally toward
supporting the new band. The band
boys are practicing two evenings each
week and it is said that by spring Den
ison will have a band that will make
the other towns sit up and take notice.
Wo are indeed fortunate in having a
leader such as Mr. Gibler. Mr. Gib
ler, the band director, was voted an
honorary member of the club with all
privileges.
The postponement of .the old set
tlers' picnic was brought up for dis
cussion and it was decided to hold the
picnic rfh September 14th. The pro
gram as advertised will be carried out
with some additions. It was decided
that the balance of $8.50 left over af
ter the license and water rent for the
circus had been paid be turned
to tho old settlers' fund.
The club tendered a vote of thanks
to its secretary, R. E. Mote, for the
interest he took in securing Ringling
Bros, circus. It was entirely through
the efforts of A^r. Mote that the circus
was brought to Denison.
Klectric fans are to be purchased
by the club for tho rooms to make it
more comfortable for the members
during the hot wdather. At times the
heat is almost unbearable at the club
and it is a hard matter to get many
members out to the meetings, but with
the use of electric fans it is hoped to
Take
it more pleasant for everyone.
Another important matter that came
up for discussion was that of parking
automobiles on the paved streets. At
present automobile owners are park
ing their cars parallel to the curb
stones while some elthel* head their
cars iiito the curb or back in, which
results in more or less confusion,
especially on Saturday evenings when
the traffic is unusually heavy. There
is a concensus of opinion that the at
tention of the mayor of the city be
called to the matter and that some uni
form method of parking cars be adopt
ed. Many of the .members were in
favor of parking the cars in the center
of the street, which would leave a wide
thoroughfare on either side of the
street and would compel traffic to move
in one direction. This method has
been used in Omaha for some time and
has been found to be most satisfac
tory.
The matter of sprinkling and flush
ing the streets was brought up for dis
cussion and the club decided to sell
the present sprinkler and turn over
the amount to the city to be ap'plied
on the purchase price of a new flusher.
The club has agreed to pay the cost of
sprinkling the business section of the
city until the first of the year, as here
tofore, but the city is to pay for flush
ing the paved streets outside of the
business section. The balance on
liprid of the sprinkling account is of
fered by B. Brodersen, the amount be
ing $220.34.
The civic committee was instructed
to meet with the city council and urge
them to clean up the city. There is
much complaint over the condition of
certain streets and alleys, and resi
dents are complaining bitterly over
the condition of vacant lots where
weeds have been allowed to grow all
summer without cutting. Of course,
everyone knows th^t the city dads
have been so busy-' with the details of
the paving, sewers and waterworks
that they have not had much time for
anything else. Inasmuch as most of
this work is nearing completion it is
hoped that they will turn their atten
tion to cleaning up the city.
Word was received in Denison the
first of the week from Rochester, Minn,
stating that Mrs. Frances Barber un
derwent an operation at the hospital
there last Saturday and that she is get
ting along as well as can be expected.
Her many friends will be glad to
learn that the operation was success
ful. Mr. and Mrs. H. A. Carpenter ac
companied her to Rochester and will
remain for a few days longer,
this showing that would retail as high as $35.00.
Dressy Blouses
were made to retail at $6.00. Specially priced for this week at
An Exclusive Showing of Ladies! Millinery
Thirty-seven high grade hats. Thes^ WsJ arrived on our floor S^tyirday of last week. Not a hat
in this lot would sell at wholesale regularly for less than $7.00 to $fO: This lot was a special
purchase made by our buyer while in the East last week and was bought from one of the best
millinery houses in the United States. These hats were patterns from which cheaper hats were
copied. The materials are hatter's plush and silk velvets. The entire showing
is priced for this sale at
GEO. MENAGH & CO.
LAST WEEK
Homes of T. J. Garrison and E. Gulick
Broken Into, but Burglars Fail
to Secure but Lititle.
PREPARE FOR FOOTBALL
Professor Lynch and Assistant Helsley
Getting Football Squad in Read
iness for Fall Games.
The local police are to be congratu
lated upon the manner in which they
handled the circus crowd last Wednes
day and upon the few arrests that
were made. Only two arrests were
made, they being for drunkeness. 1-Mck
pockets and purse snatchers, who gen
erally follow circuses, did not make
their appearance in Denisoh, at least
no one reported occurrences of this
nature to the officers.
Burglars, however, were in evidence
and the home of T. J. Garrison on East
Broadway was entered while the fam
ily was watching the circus parade
down town. Mr. Garrison and family
left the house about 10 o'clock and
when they returned an hour later
found that the house had been ran
sacked from basement to garret and a
handsome gold watch belonging to
Miss Lillian garrison had been stol
en. The thieves made entrance to
the home through the kitchen door,
using a "jimmy" to force the door
open. Every drawer in the house was
ransacked and those found locked
were pried open, marring the furniture
considerably. Fortunately Mrs. Gar
rison's jewels were in a safety deposit
box at the Crawford County State bank
or they would have been stolen, as
the jewel box in which she keejs them
in the house was broken open.
At the E. Gulick residence a robber
was caught in the act of breaking in
by Dr. R. P. Plimpton and frightened
away. Dr. Plimpton was in his barn
just across the alley from the Gulick
residence when he heard the sound of
breaking glass. He looked over at
the Gulick residence and saw a man'
on the back porch who had just brok
en the glass in the back door. He
called to the man who made a hasty
exit, running down the street to the
railroad yards.
Professor Lynch of the high school
faculty, who has charge of the ath
letics, is in high spirits over the pros
pects of a winning football team this
year, and tells us that the D. H. £.
will give a good' account of Itself this
fall on the gridiron. He has just re
turned from Lake View, where he lias
had six high school boys in training
for some time, getting them ii shape
for the team.
Thirty-four men will try out for the
One Special Lot of Women's High Grade Suits
A. IS I 1 I* 1_ 1
One lot of 35 blouses, made up in Georgette Crepe in
flesh and white. All sizes. These blouses
THE DENISON REVIEW
THIS WEEK'S NEWS THIS WEEK, NOT NEXT WEEK.
DENISON, IOWA, WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 6, 1916.
team this fall and Professor Lynch
^ays that not a single one of them oaq
feel sure of a place on the teamtit this
time. The aggregation is fust and
most of the men are of good weight,
Insuring Denison a fast team and still
strong on defensive work.
The schedule as arranged so far is
the strongest that Denison lias ever
had. The teata will play at Carroll,
Missouri Valley, Coon Rapids and Lo
gan and the games to be played on the
local gridiron will be Ida Grove, Storm
Lake and Council Bluffs.
Denison has never beaten Council
Bluffs and this year they are bent on
bringing down that proud and haugh
ty aggregation to defeat. The boys
expect to give a good account of them
selves in the game with Ida Grove,
who have the reputation of having one
of the fastest teams in the state.
Professor Lynch will be assisted by
Charles Helsley in coaching the Den
ison team and they expect to start
working out' the men the last of this
week.
FUNERAL OF MR. SCRIVER.
Remains Brought to Denison Thurs
day and Laid to Rest on Friday
Afternooh" aft 2:30 O'clock
Funeral services of Mr. Scriver were
held on Friday- afternoon at 2:30
o'clock from his home in the city. The
remains arrived from Wausau, Wis.,
on Thursday at 9 o'clock a. m. The
funeral servces were brief, consisting
of hymns rendered by the quartet
made up of Mr. and Mrs. Sibbert and
Prof, and Mrs. W. C. VunN'ess. Rev.
J. L. Boyd, of the Methodist Episcopal
church, delivered a short prayer, after
which he made a few appropriate re
marks. He gave emphasis to some of
the prominent characteristics of thei
deceased which accounted in a degree'
for his popularity and standing in the
community. The body was taken in
charge by the Masonic order and the
beautiful service at the cemetery was
conducted by this order.
Pall bearers were O. A. Patterson,
C. L. Voss, W. R. Temple. C. F. Kuehn
le, E. A. Stone and J. P. Conner.
The out of town members of the
family present were Stewart, the only
son of the deceased, r.a'l his two
daughters, Marion, now Mrs. Hubert
Romans, of Aberdeen. S. D„ and Clara,
who has spent the summer in Aber
deen and will take up her work as una
of the teachers in the Omaha schools
Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert, of Wausau,
Wis., Mrs. Gilbert being a sister of
the deceased, and Miss O'Connor, of
Chicago, a sister of Mrs. W. J. Scriver.
Mr. A. D. Wilson stopped off in Den
ison over Sunday for a visit with his
daughter, Miss Pearl, on his way home
from Des Moines, where he had been
in attendance at the state fair. Mr.
Wilson for several years has had
charge of the disinfecting of the live
stock peps at the fair grounds.
Menagh's Special Shorting of Fall Suits
An Early Fall Fashion Event of Interest to Every Woman—And
Especially to You if You are Going to Purchase a New Fall Suit
N this week's special display there are dressy suits for church, for street wear, or for afternoon calls. There are also jaunty belted models for
school and general wear. The superiority of tailoring in these new suits cannot be too strongly emphasized. Its the quality or Menagh
garments that keeps them so good looking longer than the ordinary garments made in the ordinary way.
We would advise early selections before the lines are broken.
OTHER SUITS AT $29.50, $35.00 AND UP TO $50.
$4.65
M'.
•J
STREET FLUSHER
Council Buys An Air Compresser and
Machine Will Be Delivered in
Abotlt Three Weeks.
WARD & WEIGHTON GET SEWER
Three Bidders on Storm Sewer, Con
tract Let to Ward & Weighton
Company of Sioux City.
The city fathers held a meeting at
tho city hall last evening and contract
ed with an Omaha concern for the
purchase of a flushing machine for
cleaning the new pavement. The ma
chine purchased is styled the Economy
air pressure flusher and is manufac
tured in Omaha. The machine pur
chased cost the city $ti50 and is of the
most improved type. It is the same
make of machine that is used at Har
lan, Council Bluffs, Omaha and Lin
coln and does the work better than
any other machine on the market. Part
of the cost of the new machine will
be bcrne by the Commercial club, who
will turn over the proceeds o£ the sale
of the old sprinkler.
The contract for the storm sewer to
be installed on lower Main street was
let to the Ward & Weighton company,
cf Sioux City, their bid of $2,410.00 be
ing the lowest. Two other concerns,
Katz Construction company, of Oma
ha, and C. II. Wilson, of Red Oak, en
tered bids. The Ward & Weighton
company were the successful bidders
for the laying of the new water main
up Washington avenue and their work
for the city has been so satisfactory
that the council felt tUey were making
no mistake in giving them the con
tract for the new storm sewer.
The council ordered Mayor Laub to
see that the rings placed in the side
walk in front of the Boys' store for
bitching teams be removed. Several
business houses placed rings in the
sidewalk after the hitching posts were
removed and later complied with the
order of the mayor to remove them.
Hitching posts are being provided on
the side streets so that teams will be
accommodated" without hitching them
on the main business streets.
Word reached Denison the first of
the week that Mr. Carl Turner and Mis5
Nell Wyrick were married at the home
of the bride at Traer last week. Both
of these young people are well known
in Denison and the announcement of
their marriage will come as a surprise
to their many friends. Mr. Turner Is
c6urt reporter for Judge Hutchison
and has been coming to Denison for
a number of years. Miss Wyrick spent
several seasons in Denison as trimmer
in tho millinery department of the
Balle-Urodersen store.
fc.:.
-"i-i
CHOLERA INFANTUM CAUSE
August Henry Rosburg, Infant Son of
Dr. and Mrs. A. H. Rosburg,
Dies Sunday Morning.
The death of the infant son of Dr.
and Mrs. A. H. Rosburg, which occur
red at tho Denison hospital at an e^rly
hour. Sunday morning, caused profound
sorrow in tlie community. The little
fellow was taKen ill just a week ago
with cholera infantum and at first it
was believed that he would pull
through the ordeal, but on last Wednes
day
his condition became more serious
and a child specialist from Omaha was
summoned to administer to him. The
ravages of the disease proved too much
for the little body and he gradually
grew weaker Until he was called to the
great beyond at 1 o'clock Sunday morn
ing.
August Henry Rosburg was born
July 28, 1915, at Denison. He was a
robust baby and never had a sick day
until this illness. Mrs. Rosburg and
the baby spent the summer with her
parents at SanDiego, Cali., and it is
believed the change in climate brought
on the sickness.
Funeral services w^re held Sunday
afternoon at 1:30 o'clock from the
home. Rev. Williams, pastor of the
Episcopal church officiating. Inter
ment was made in Oakland cemetery.
Dr. and .Airs. Rosburg have the sym
pathy of the entire community in their
bereavement.
Mrs. R. A. Romans and daughters,
Alice, Gertrude and Beth, arrived in
Denison last week for a visit with her
sister, Mrs. Frrjnk Woolstoiu Mrs.
Romans has sold her home in Aber
deen and will reside with lier daugh
ters in Boston. She departed Monday
for Cedar Rapids for a few days' visit
with her daughter, Mrs. Chas. Aurach
er.
Miss Pearl M. Craft, of Chicago, ar
rived in Denison Sunday to aBsume
her position as trimmer in the mil
linery establishment of Mr.s Huldali
M. Hall, ^lisa Craft has worked for
Mrs. Hall for several seasons and has
made many friends ill Denison, who
are glad that she is located here for
anotlier season.
A CORRECTION.
On page six of the first section,
of this is*ue will be found a pub
lic sale ad of Ferdinand Sindt.
The date reads Friday, Septem
ber 20th. It should read
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 22.
The error was not noticed un
til the section referred to was
run off, and we thus make the cor
rection.
4 4
Grouped together in one big special lot for this week at
CV*U
65 INew rail Skins Theyareshown qa
Women's Sweaters priced at 89c to $2.50.
Men's Sweaters priced at 50c to $4.95.
Featuring the very newest ideas in suit making. The
materials are broadcloths, wool velours, gabardines, serges
and poplins. There are garments in
in plaids and novelty materials. Priced at M# yOtUv
in plaids
An Offering of Women's, Children's and Men's
Sweaters for This Week
This is one of the largest purchases of sweaters ever shown by us and arrived on our floor Friday of
last week. The entire lot is being placed on sale this week at prices even below wholesale.
Children's School Sweaters priced at 69c to $1.50.
There is not a sweater in this lot that is not marked at a saving of from $ 1.00 to $2.00 on each pur
chase in the men's and women's sweaters, and from 25c to 75c on all misses' and children's sweaters. Lay
in your winter supply while the stock is complete.
.4^1
J*,,: sfii/•i
—&
Please mention The Re
view when answering
"Classified Ads." This
courtesy will be appro
ciated.
9$ gauniuuiwf} «v»
No. 36
VISIT HEAD OF
MISSISSIPPI
Denison Tourists Enjoy Splendid Auto
Trip to Aberdeen, S. D., and Up
into Minnesota.
MEET FRIENDS AT ABERDEEN
A. C. Balle, J. E. Balle, Hugo' Gebert,
Bennie and Hans Brodersen and
R. P. Conner Make up Party
Messrs. J. E. Balle, Hugo Gebert, R.
P. Conner and_Bennie and Hans Brod
ersen returned Sunday evening from
a ten days' motor trip through South
Dakota and Minnesota. Mr. A. C.
Balle made the trip with the party
but remained at Aberdeen for a
month' visit at the home of his daugh
ter, Mrs. Geo. Fletcher. The party left
Denison two weeks ago this afternoon
and stopped the first night at Spirit
Lake and after an early start Thurs
day morning reached Montevidio.
Minn., for the night. Friday morning
the journey was continued west over
the Yellowstone trail, but a hard rain
made the roads in such condition that
it was out of the question to make fast
time. When thirty miles east- of Aber
deen the car was stalled in a mud hole
for three hours and the party pulled
into Aberdeen at 6 o'clock Saturday
morning covered with gumbo, but in
good spirits. Saturday afternoon Mrs.
Geo. Fletcher entertained the travel
ers at dinner, Messrs. John, Robert
and Warren Romans being invited al
so. John Romans is making good at
Aberdeen, being engaged in the real
estate business and has an abstract
business in connection. He owns the
only spring near Aberdeen and sup
plies everyone with drinking water.
Robert owns a garage there and has a
nice business. Warren owns and op
erates a cleaning and dying business,.
Sunday afternoon, after- having din
ner at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Geo.
Fletcher, the party continued their
journey to Pine Cone Camp, Minn.,
where three days were spent in fish
ing for pike, pickerel and muskolunge.
The muskies were not biting, howev
er, and none of these game fish were
landed. Mr. Gebert and Mr. A. C. Balle
proved to be the best fishermen in the
party, while Julius Balle held the rec
ord for not catching a single fish. Af
ter three days of Ashing the journey
was continued and a visit was made
to Lake Itasca, the headwaters of the
Mississippi. Fftnn there the party
started on the homeward trip reach
ing Denison Sunday evening at 8
o'clock after a trip of 265 miles that
day. It was a most enjoyable trip
everyone returned with a coat of tan
which made them resemble Indians.
$25.00
HAVE JUST ARRIVED ON OUR FLOOR.
f_
io en
I!
