?F
THE HARTFORD HERALD.
Subscription $1 Per Year, in Advance.
"I fom, ttt Herald of ifoiij World, tin fovi of ill Mow Lmnbering at Mj 8acl."
IM Kinds Job Printing Neatly Executed.
PTT"7 "T"i
i
2d TEAR.
HARTFORD, KY., WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1916.
NO. 36
RAILROAD STRIKE
CALLRESCINDED
The Eight-Hour Day Bill
Passed By Congress.
THE SEMITE PASSES MEASURE
With Vote Almost Along Party
Lines Brotherhood Heads
Revoke Walkout.
EFFORTS TO AMEND NO AVAIIj
Washington, Sept. 2. The threat
of a general railroad strike, which
iias been hanging like a pall over
the country for a mouth, was lifted
to-night. '
Three hours alter the Senate had
passed without amendment the Ad-
amson Eight-Hour-Day Bill, passed
by the House yesterday, the heads
of the four great railroad employes
brotherhoods telegraphed six hundred-odd
code messages to their gen
eral chairmen in all parts of the
country cancelling the strike order
issued-a week-ago to take effect next
Monday morning at 7 o'clock.
The legislative expedlent'to avert
the strike was passed in the Senate
by a vote of 43 to 28 almost a
strict party vote amid stirring
scenes, after many Senators, Demo
crats and Republicans, bad fought
desperately to amend the measure
by provisions designed to prevent
industrial disasters in the future.
Some Senators, thoroughly aroused,
declared Congress was being coerced
Into enactment of legislation that it
did not desire and that It knew
would return to plague It- in the future.
Kentucky's two Senators were
champions of the Eight-Hour Bill.
Senator James was at Shadow Lawn
notifying the President of his re
nomlnation when the final vote was
taken, and although necessarily ab
sent, he was paired with a Repub
lican Senator, who opposed the bill.
It was announced in the Senate that
if Senator James were present he
would have voted for the. ineasuro.
Senator Beckham -supported the bill.
In both Houses the measure was
signed -within a few minutes after
irihe final vote in the Senate, and It'
was sent at once to the
to the constitutionality of the law,
but what steps If any may be taken
to test this has not been Indicated.
Quick action by the brotherhood
heads followed the action In the Sen
ate. No doubt exists In their minds
that President Wilson would slgu
the bill as soon as It was handed to
him. The measures embraces virtu
ally all of the President's original
proposals to the employes and the
railroad heads, although It Is only
a part of tho legislative programme
he took-'to Congress last Tuesday
when his negotiations had failed.
i
EXAMINATIONS FOR
COUNTY UOAI) ENGINEER
PRAGTGAL AND
MO
L
FAILURE
Says Wilson Of the Re
publican Party.
To all Division Engineers, County
Road Engineers,- County Judge3,
Newspapers: Examinations for tho
position of County Road Engineer
will be held at the following places
throughout the State of Kentucky,
on Monday, September 11, 19 10,
viz.:
1'aducah, held by Walter F.
Brooks, U.S. Senior Highway Engin
eer; llopklusville, held by John A.
Whittaker, U. S. Senior Highway
Engineer; Bowling Green, held by
T. B. Smith, Division Engineer; Ellz
abethtitwn, held by Sherley Cunlff,
Division Engineer; Louisville, held
by H. E. Read, Division Engineer;
Frankfort, held by Commissioner of
Public Roads; Somerset, held by
Wm. A. Obenchaln, Division Engin
eer; Paris, held by M. D. Ross, Di
vision Englneer;Jackson, held by W.
S. Canning, Division Engineer; Plne-
ville, held by R. E. Toms. U. S. Se
nior Highway Engineer; Plkeville,
held by W. L. McDyer, Division En
gineer; Ashland, held by T. B. Web
ber, Division Engineer.
Wednesday, September 13th, as
follows: Henderson, held by John
A. Whittaker, U. S. Senior Highway
Engineer; Frankfort, "held by Com
missioner of Public Roads.
Two days will be.requlred for each,
examination, the flrstday to be ta-,
ken up-in giving -examination and
the second day the examiner will
give, an explanation of all questions
asked In the examination on the
previous day.
These examinations will be held
at the court houses at the various'
places. R. WILEY,
Com'r, of Public Roads.
PRESIDENT OPENS CAMPAIGN
In Speech Accepting Democrat
ic Nomination Reviews
His Party's Record.
MR. HUGHES NOT MENTIONED
resent, however imperfectly, a strug
gle for freedom, he Is ready to serve
their ends, the crowds applauded.
Applause also greeted I1I3 declara-
tlon that America must do its par
In laying the foundation for worl 1
Peace.
The policy of the United States In
dealing with violations of the rlghtj
of Americans as a result of the Eu
ropean war, the President outlined
thus:
"That property rights can be vin
dicated by claims for damage when
the war Is over and no modern na
tion can decline to arbitrate such
claims, but the fundamental rights
of humanity cannot be."
LINCOLN
FARM
ADMINISTRATION IS
PRAISED l!V GROWERS
Long Branch, N. J Sept. 2.
President Wilson to-day formally
opened his campaign for re-election
with a speech accepting the Demo
cratic nomination in which he char
acterized tho Republican party as a
"practical and moral failure," de
fended his Mexican and European
policies, recited the legislative
achievements of his Administration
and declared for a "big America."
The President left Shadow Lawn
at 11 o'clock to-night for Washing
ton to sign the Eight-hour Day Bill,
which has averted the thicatenedi
nation-wide railroad strike.
In his speech President Wlhon
was unsparing In his criticism of the
Republican party as a party of "mas
terly Inactivity and cunning re
sourcefulness in standing pat to re
sist change," and said that the old
leaders still select Its candidates, but
he did not mention Charles E. '
Hughes, the Republican candidate, I washlngt
UJ UU1UC,
Hppkinsville, Ky Sept. 1.
Highly pleased with the results of
their visit to Washington to proteat
against the embargo placed by Great
Britain on tho shipment of Ameri
can tobacco to neutral countiles, the
Hopklnsvllle delegation has return
ed home. Tho movement of tho
Srowers originated In Hopklnsvllle,
and R. E. Cooper, of this city, was
made the leader and spokesman ot
the big Black Patch delegation. On
seeing press dispatches that England
would place a ban on tobacco Aug
ust 31 Mr." Cooper realized the im
mense losses that such action would
causo the farmers of Kentucky, Ten
nessee, Virginia and other States
which raise the types of tobacco
used by the Central Powers.
He talked the matter over and the
conference In Washington was the
result. Mr. Cooper, J. E. McPher
son. George E. Gary, S. A. Powell,
W. T. Fowler and James A. McKeu
zie went from Christian county. I
They found, when they reached
on. that the Black Patch
A
NATIONAL SHRINE
Memorial Is Accepted By
President As
SPOKESMAN FOR THE NATION
Makes Eloquent Address
spired By Spot Which Is
Sacred In History.
In-
GREAT CROWD ATTENDS SCENE
had been removed rrom the farm by
a traveling showman, who took It
about the country exhibiting it. Tho
dismembered timbers of the cabin
were found in a cellar, where they
had been stored by the showman,
and wero purchased from him.
Soon afterward tho Lincoln Farm
Association was organized and tltlo
to tho cabin and farm was turned
over to that organization by Mr. Col-.
Her.
Joseph W. Folk, then Governor of
Missouri, was president of the or
ganization; Robert Collier vice pres
ident and chairman of the Executive
j Committee, Clarence H. Mackiv
treasurer and Richard Lloyd Jones
secretary.
Immediately upon the formation
of the association a campaign for
funds with which to build a Lincoln
memorial hall over the original site
of the Lincoln cabin was begun.
The responses came quickly from
all sections of the country, and from
iro section more quickly or readily
men and women of tho
Hodgenvllle, Ky., Sept. 4. A lit
tle Kentucky farm became a nation's
shrine to-day when President Wil
son accepted, on behalf of the Unit- than from
ed States, the birthplace of Abraham South, who vied with the citizen of
Lincoln, traiioforiiitd Into a memo-ot'ler Parts of the United States in
rial that will be held forever In rev-1 the desire to pay tribute to the mem
erence by the American people. orv of Abraham Lincoln.
Standing on a platform under the I T1, corner stone of the memorial
folds of the Hag which files fiom tile ; ,la11 was lal(1 by Theodore Roosevelt
stulf in front of the beautiful Mc-! FJbruarv 12' 199. on the hun
morlal building, erected to shelter i dredth anniversary of the birth of
the rude pioneer cabin in which j t,le "Great Emancipator." On No
Abraham Lincoln was given to the, vember 9, 1911, it was formally detl
wprld, President Wilson delivered 'cated by President William H. Taft.
his address to an audience of tlious-1 To-day it became the property of tho
ands assembled from all parts of the wllle American people.
United States to take part in the I To lts construction mora than
ceremonies marking the transfer of 270,000 persons contributed amounts
the Lincoln farm to the Government, ranging from 25c to $25,000, which
A huge crowd of 40,000 people totaled approximately I3S3.000. The
massedunder a hot sun on the hill-, balance from this fund after paying
sides about the cabin cheered the tov tbe construction of the memorial
President as he spoke of Lincoln as ball and fr the preliminary work of
the embodiment of democracy. Be- turning the farm into a great public
fore delivering his address the Pres- Park, Is the sum which was turned
The President spoke from the ve-th, , ... y any" ident entered the granite memorial fover as an endowment fund for the
nda of his summer home to a1 '?.! .,.?,0r , l building housing the Lincoln cabin, ma'ntenance of the building and
crowd which filled 8,000 chairs and Tom ' . . , . ' for several minutes stood reverently grounds.
.' ZTl I!?"8. "I examining the crude log structure.!' The h
randa
FEW TRIPS ARK PLANNED
FOR WILSON'S CAMPAIGN
New York, Sept. 1. Plans for
President Wilson's speaking trips
during the campaign were discussed
here to-day at a meeting of the Dem-
hall Is a beautiful granite
Speaking in the open, his voice I .... ., . ... .. : J, As he walked up the granite steps building standing at the top of a
could be heard by only a small part I-, i .1 i leadlnB to the cabin a band played sraa11 kno11- " faces toward a big
of the crowd, but those who did l . , , , I f . Uicmselves ratriotlc airs, and the crowd cheered sl'rlnS a' the bottom of the slope,
bear him constantly- interrupted teL T V .. . H,"y of again and again. , -which proved the determining factor
with applause. .. Sa Tensing oj his valuable co- Pre8,dent WUsoa drew a wonUer. In the choice of Thomas Lincoln.
Once, when he said, "I neither i JVm 11 f TVt ! ,." '" Picture of the great emancipator ' Abraham Lincoln's father, when he
seek the favor nor fear the dlspleas-1'..,'0' generally tor taking hold Ja h,s short( carefujiy.prepared was casting about for a site upon
" i "i """' c ittco U1 mi. speecl He concluded: .which to build his home,
threatened 3trlke and other matters i ... . . . A .,. . . Ri0in fPm tha ,, , 1U.,
uaio tuiue iiure iu-uu , nol CO' ....0 ...... i..c nunum tu mc iu,i
.... n n..l r t . t x . nf thita olnnn !. n ln.v .111. f.l
I uncr u uuiubi on .uinuo.u ne stands "" '" .. : a iuus uigui ui wiuh
in need of none but to endeavor to granite steps, Hanked on either 3lde
PUBLIC roi'xnii iikmi interpret the meaning of this gift to u a row ol I'opiar trees together
White, ocratlc Campaign Committee, after
House, where President Wilson will Whica it was announced that, the
sign it at 7:30 o'clock to-morrow, president probably would make his
rmornlng, after his return from most important speeches ' from the ! JIr- Wilson stood more than an hour
-Wiadow Lawn. Officials of the, porch of his summer home at Lone on the veranda and shook hands
ure of that small alien element
amongst us which puts loyalty to any
foreign Power before loyalty to the
United States," the crowd stood and
cheered.
The notification ceremonies were
brought to a dramatic close when
more than a score of American flags
attached to parachutes were fired
Into the air by mortars and unfold
ed over tho President's head as a
band played "America." Afterward
of great importance Incident to the I
speedy adjournment of Congress.
brotherhoods who witnessed the Branch, N. J,
dual passage of the bill, had an
nounced early In the night that can
cellation of the strike would not be
ordered until the bill had been sign
ed by the President ana actually naa l0ng speaking trips
become law. But later they con- ments jn Koutucky
ferred, changed their minds and
flashed the code messages signaling
to the waiting trainmen the message
that a satisfactory settlement hdd
been secured.
The bill that stopped the strike
provides that after January 1, 1917,
eight hours shall be regarded as a
-basis of reckoning for a day's pay of
men ongaged In tho .operation or
railroad trains In interstate com
merce (excepting roads less than
100 miles long and electric lines),
that they shall receive pro rata pay
for work In excess of eight hours,
and that their rate of compensation J
sh"all not bo changed pending an In-
Tiie presiaent s aversion to a
stumping tour, it was stated, had
the approval of the committee, and
it was doubted if he would make any
His engage
September 4;
St. Louis, September 20, and Balti
more. September 24, it was said,
would be kept, and it is possible sev
eral more might bo added.
For the first time In the history
of tho Democratic party two women,
ono from Idaho and tho other from
Oregon, attended the committee
meeting.
POSTAL SAVINGS SHOW
. VERY RAPID INCREASE
Washington, Aug. 30. Deposits
In postal savings banks of the Unit
ed States Increased more than 01
per cent. In the year following tho
wiin several tuousatid tneu, women
'and children.
Senator James, of Kentucky,
chairman of the Notification Com
mittee, Introduced the President.
When he declared that Mr. Wilson
had kept America at peace the crowd
responded Instantly and applauded
several minutes. He concluded by
handing tho President a copy ot the
St. Louis platform.
Reading slowly but distinctly
from a printed copy of hU speech
and frequently looking up to empha
size particular points, Mr. Wilson
spoke of the Democratic platform as
a "definite pledge." Reviewing the
achievements of the Administration,
he said: "Aliko In the domestic
field and ,in, tho wide field of the
commerce of the world, American
business and llfo and industry have
been set free to move as they never
moved before."
BY CAMP FIRE GIRLS !the nation of the place of his birth , witl1 a box hedge. A box hedge also
. and origin. Is not this an altar , surrounus a small plaza at the foot
Rockport, Ky., Sept. 2. On Tues-!uPn wbich wo may forever keep of the steps, in the middle of which
day night. August 29th, the Choctaw 'alivo tlie vestal Are of democracy as la a tall flag pole from which tho
Camp of Camp Fire Girls held a ', upou a shrine at which some of the , stars and Stripes will always be kept
public Council Fire in the vacant lot deeDest a"l 'os,t sacred hopes of , waving.
back of the Presbyterian church mankind may from age to aga be re-1 In8'de the big granite building
The girls in their ceremonial cos-, kindled? For these hopes must , the Lincoln cabin stands upon tho
constantly be rekindled, and only s',ot on w'cn i nomas Lincoln ereci
those who live can rekindle them. ed ll HO years ago. It is surround
The only stuff that can retain th ed by a heavy bronze chain, for no
life-giving heat Is the stuff ot living , "e is to be permitted to enter its
hearts. And the hopes of mankind Portals. Upon the Interior walls of
kept alive by words, by ,
vestlgatlon for from six to nine outbreak oMho" Europeau War( At
months of the effect ot the eight- the close of 1915 fiscal year depos-
hour day upon the railroads by a Its aggregated $05,684,708, and de- before seriously proposed upon the
tumes came Into view in Indiau
fashion and formed a seml-clrclo
around the fire, In front of which,
stood their guardian, Wasl-I-Yo-Mlna.
After the regular candle
lighting ceremony the mothers wero
welcomed to tho lire by a short
poem and the singing of .Woholo.
The. ceremonial names were U3ed in
the roll-call after which tho assist
ant guardian, Lexse, read an account
of an all-day picnic given by tho
Camp Fire Girls at Airdrlo oa Aug.
18th. Honor bead's of se-en cratts
were awarded, being immediately
followed by the Work Song. A short
talk on Camp Fire, its history, or
ganization and aim was given by the
guardian. The meeting was closed
by the Boo-ga-man Song during
which the girls followed the advice
of the song, "Pretty little maiden,
hotter run away." The threo candles,
Work, Health nnd Love were ox-
tlugulscd and all that remained was
cannot bo
constitutions and doctrines or right
and codes of liberty.
"We are not worthy to stand here
unless we ourselves be indeed and
in truth real democrats and servants
of mankind, ready to give our very
the memorial hall Is carved Lincoln's
Gettysburg address and u record of
the Lincoln ancestry.
Over tho entrance to the building
is the following inscription:
"Here over the log cabin in which
Abraham Lincoln was born, destined
to preserve the Union and free tho
lives for the freedom and justice and ,
spiritual exaltation of the great na-, slave, a grateful people have dedl
tlon which shelters and nurtures cated this memorial to unity, peace
us.
He said: "Wo havo provided for tho dyitig embers of the camp lire.
national defense upon a ecalo never i
commission to bo appointed
President.
by the posltors numbered 525,414, making responsibility of an entire political
an averago of more than ?125 for party.'
EfforfB to amend the bill In the each depositor. Tho postal savings Concluding his lht of measures
HERE'S WHAT THEY GET
FOR GAMBLING ON FOOD
The ceremonies wero the
of ten years of activity toward this
end.
Early in 190C Robert J. Colllor
learned that the farm upon which
Abraham Lincoln was born was
about to bo sold at auction to satisfy
claims against the estate of A. W.
Dennett, a Now York rpstaiintn
1 owner, in whose possession It had
been for several years. According
and brotherhood
climax States."
amoug theso
TREASURES FOUND BY
AUSTRIAN'S IN CHURCH
Geneva, Switzerland, Aug. 30.
The Austrlans, according to a spec
ial dispatch from Innsbruck, lmvo
found the famous treasures of tho
Detchaul Monastery, noar Ccttinje,
Moutenegro, which the monks had
to tho information reaching him sev- bl"Ied upott tho aN,roaoU ot tUo In
eral persons, .among them a man vadeTS
.with big distilling utoreits, wero' ine accumulations wo-e tnw or
Now York, Sept. 4. Food dealers rnxtous to obtain possession of the sovea contultc consisting of Jewrfj
Senate wero futile, tho supremo ef- system was Inaugurated January 3, 'passed by Congress in tl'io last three v'ho eamblod on the expected Isola- niaco, ntendlng to use It In exploit- ,u om coul l 0Lr M'nriiiMim
forts to alter It having been led by 1911, under Postmaster-General years, tho President declared: "This tlon f New York frolu outside sup- jng their wares. ,,nco tho thirteenth contuij, goUltm
Senator Underwood, who sought to Frank H. Hitchcock, of Massachu- extraordinary recital must sound "Ues bs a result ot th0 threatened j He at once cent Richard Lloyd vcssols' ad ricu,v embrol.lored VMt-
provldo that tho Interstate Com-.setts, nnd at the close ot that fiscal like a platform, a list of sanguine railroad strike and held back ship- jones to Keutucky to acquire title ments- T"e value of tho wholu ac-
merce Commission should hayo pow-iyear the average ot each depositor, promises, but It is not. It is a rec- ments to unload at famine prices to tho proporty If posalblo. Mr. cumulation Is estimated at soyarnl
In flv rnUrm.l wnirpo and hour of Waff more than $5G. At the P.losn Of'nnl nf nrnmlaoa tim). fniii. v..nrr. fOUUd themselves to-day overwhelm- .Tnnon nn hla nrrlvnl fminil tlm na. "'On POUIUIS.
sfirvice In tho future. This amend- 1912 tho average had increased to'aco and now actually rpdepmnii In ed by their own plot. Prices. eud-
.. , , . i i . . ... ..,. ... .. ..
ment was defeated by a vote of 57
to 14.
Only two Democrats, Senators
Hardwlck, of Georgia, and Clark-, ot
rkansas. voted against the bill, and
tyie RepublicanLa FoAette, of Wis
consin, voted for it.
Railroad officials Jiave declared
'line
$89. In 1913 It was $102, and In
1914 the averago increased to $111.
Farm For Sale.
R. C, Taylor's farm, Just below
Knott's Ferry, on Rough river, con
taining 216 acres 150 acres In bot
tom, 33 acres tiled and all in flno
itttt the action of Congress wjll cost) state of cultivation; 15 acres In
thtini $60,000,00(1 a. year in increaa-. woous, uaiuuce goou pasture lanu
constructive legislation.'
The President made a bid for tho
Progressive voto by saying thut "wo
have in four years come very noar
to carrying out the platform ot the
Progressive party as well as our
own, for wo are also progressives."
Further along, rebuking foreign
born Americans who are not loyal
to the United States he said:
denly collapsed with tho avortlng of
the strike and tho food gamblers
were caught with vast quantities of
supplies on their hands. Ono spec
ulator is reported to havo lost hun
dreds ot thousands of dollars.
Jones on his arrival found the es
tato still involved in court uce-'
dure and left, first arranging with
local attorneys to notify him when
tho case was finally adjudicated.
Iu August of the same year came
word that the farm had been order
ed sold at the court house door of
It is sad, adds tho dispatch, thjit
a peasant betrayed to tho Austrlana
tho catacombs whero the treasure
was secreted.
Dies Of Lockjaw.
Maysvlllo, Ky., Sept. 2. Ray
mond Rlgdon, 8 years old, son of
Larue" county, and Mr. Jones again Mr and Mr8 samuol Rlgdon, of Do
J camo to Kentucky, arriving In Hodg- V0I.( thls county, died of tetanus.
' envllle somowhat in advance of Ten dava Q ho ran a SDiintor in hla
oil wages to the trainmen. Brother- ( Good house and barn, good orchard "I am the candldato of a party,
hood officials say the enactment wni.ona pieniy oi gpou water.- tiio but I am above all thrngs else an
mean not more than an an
nual Increase of '$2Q.O00,0pot
In Congress and among the rallrpa.d
efflcfals thero has existed doubt as
north line bounded by 'Rough river. American citizen."
ferniB reaiouaoie. for further par- .When Mr. Wilson
Mh ailo Seed Wluvjt.
Bearded, recleaned. I am offer-
Incr mv rrnn nf hl AXPnllnnt Whonf
nt $1.75 per bushel while "the sup-tll0S0 inost keon,y ,nterestod ,n B- foot but paid no attention to It until
ply lasts. E, G. AUSTIN, curlng H for cnnercIal explolta- Ia8t nlgUt( when tho paln grew sn
35t4 ' Prentiss, Ky. I tlon- u wna aold t0 h,m for 3'600' Intense that a physician was callod
Aiiur ni ruiuru in ho um. in
tlculars, address
Ccntertown.JKy.
declared that The peacemaker should always bo Mr. Jones, again acting aa Mr. Col
11.. A. ASHBY, thd revolution In Mexico Is' right, prepared to, defend klmself against tier's agent, Bet out to obtain pes-' Many a girl who can't 'sing la at-
36t4 and that bo long as Its leaders rep- both sides to the controversy. cession of the Lincoln oabln. wpleV meted with tho idea that sne can.
A'
v ,
