THE BARRE DAILY TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 147.
UARRK. VERMONT, WEDNESDAY, SEITEMRER 0, 1910.
PRICE. ONE CENT.
RUMANIA
EXPELS FOES
Drives Germans and Bulga
rians Away from Her
Eastern Border
TAKES POSSESSION
OF WHOLE BORDER
Meanwhile Rumanians Are
Winning Ground in the
Austrian Invasion
London, Sept. 6. Official announce
ment is made by the Rumanian war
office that the attempts of the Germans
and Bulgarians to invade eastern Rnma
liia have been defeated and that the Ru
manians are in possession of all the froit'
tier east of the Danube, along which the
attack was directed.
Rumania's invasion of Austria is being
carried on with further success. After
spirited fighting in the region of Borzcck
et, the Rumanians captured the heights
west of that point.
creded the whole day, with extreme vio.
bice, Thi- enemy multiplied hi counter
attack launched in nia at a groat
number of point a long our new front,
notably southwest of I'arleiix ami coiiin
i act ami south of Hclloy. Notw ithstand
in' the repeated effort of the enemy, we
maintained our line and inllicted san
guinary louse on him.
"Het'weeu Ycrmandovillcr and Chilly
we curried a salient and numerou io
luted -MisitioH held by the German.
"Hast of Soyiiourt an attack by our
troop gave us'a line of German trenche,
and enabled iih to reach the out skirt
norrWet and south ot leiiieeourt farm.
"The total number of prisoner taken
since vestcrdav south of the Somme ha,
n itched 4.(4T. including 33 officer. In the
same southern sector, fotir heavy gun
and a hundred machine gun fell into our
l.iuids.
"The total number of prisoner taken
s'nee Sunday on the French front of the
Sonimc north and south is tl..Vi(), and the
number of guns 3(1, including 2 heavy
guns.
There was an intermittent cannonade
-n various parts of the front, which was
rather violent east of the Mcuse ( erdun
sector) in the sectors of Kleurv and
( benois."
TALK PEACE
AT CONFERENCE
American and Mexican Com
missions Began
Sessions
MEXICAN AT HEAD
OF FIRST MEETING
GERMAN PUBLIC
SLOW TO SUBSCRIBE
For the Latest German War Loan, Ac
cording to Reports Received in
London and Time Limit May
Be Extended.
London, Sept. fi. Subscriptions to th
new German war loan during the first
two days indicate failure, according to
reports from Berlin to the Kxchange
Telegraph company via Amsterdam. A
large number of subscriptions were re
ceived from cities, savings banks ana
munitions firms, the dispatches state,
but the public has not responded and
there is talk of extending the time limit
to October 15.
CLERY HAS FALLEN
BEFORE ALLIES
German Official Statement Announces the
Loss of Town Located Only Short
Distance From Peronne.
Berlin, via Ixuidon, Sept. fi. The town
of C'lery on the Somme river three and
one-half miles northwest of I'eronne has
been captured from the German bv the
troops of the entente allies, says the of
ficial statement of the German armv
headquarter to-day.
The Six Delegates Met at
Hotel in Groton, Conn.,
To-day
SERBIAN ARTILLERY ACTIVE.
But There are No Infantry Engagements
in Macedonian Front.
Paris, Sept. fi. Violent artillery ac
tions are in progress tn the region of
Lake Doiran and the Struma river on
the Macedonian front, in the sector held
by the Serbians, the war oltice announced
to-day. Xo infantry engagements oc
curred yesterday.
TEUTONS ADMIT
RUSSIAN SUCCESS
Official Statement Tells of Austrian Cen
ter Being Pressed Back Between
Zlota Lipa and the
Dneister.
Berlin, via London, Sept. fi. The Rus
sian lorees, savs tne omcial statement
to-day by army headquarters, have
pressed back the center of Archduke
Charles' front between Zlota Lipa and
the Dneister river in Galieia.
LINES CLOSING IN.
RUSSIANS CAPTURED
FORTIFIED POSITION
Number of Prisoners So Far Taken in
Lower Gorodenka Is 4,300, of
Whom 2,000 Are Ger
mans. Petrograd, via London, Sept. 6. Rus
sian troops yesterday captured a Teuton
ic fortified position in the region of low
er Gorodenka, in the direction of Halicz,
Galieia, and drove. the Austro-Germans
toward the northwest, ays a Russian of
ficial statement to-day. The number of
prisoners taken in the fighting in lower
Gorodenka, the statement adds, so far
amounts to 4.500 men, among whom are
about 2,000 Germans.
Around Both Combles and Peronne in
the West.
London, Sept. fi. Gradually the lines
of the entente allies are drawing more
closely about Combles and toward Pe
ronne, and farther and farther their
wtdges are being driven into the German
lines both north and south of the river
Somme.
On a front of about 25 miles the French
and British troops, supported powerfully
bv their enormous artillery arm, are
hammering steadily the German positions
and unflinchingly sustaining fierce eoun
tiT-attacks.
Xorth of the Somme to the east and
southeast of Forest the French have
driven forward their lines, capturing the
outskirts of the Anderiu wood, Hospital
farm and the Rainnette wood and part of
Marrieres wood and a position on the
road leading from Bouehavesnes to Clerv.
XVw Ixmdon, Conn., Sept. fl The six
member of the American-Mexican joint
commission assembled in their first for
mal session at a hotel in Groton to-day
with Luis Cabrera, at the head of the
Mexicans, presiding. The session wa
expected to be devoted to the arranging
of details of the conference that are to
follow. Secretary Franklin K. Lane,
chairman of the American commission,
will preside to-morrow.
In accordance with General Carran
za's preference, as expressed in hi Iat
communication during the negotiations
which led to the naming of the commis
sion, the immediate question of border
military conditions will be first dis
cussed. It seems likely that the with
drawal of General Pershing' troops from
Mexico, the main object which the Mex
ican commissioners have been instructed
to press and the terms of the protocol
to cover future campaign against ban
dits will be coupled together.
If an agreement is reached by the com.
missit mers it must be ratified, both in
Washington and Mexico City before it
can become effective and it is improb
able that the terms of any such agree
ment will be disclosed, until it haa been
approved.
HUGHES CONDEMNS lCVCC' I CAn
HASTY LAW-MAKING iL I Lu LLMU
Sayt United States Hat Advanced To
ward Day of Action Under Pres
sureHe Wanta Fair
Dealing.
I.ewiton, Ky .ent. . Charle K.
Hughes, addressing an audience that
tilled the auditorium here yesterday, con
demned "legislation in advance of Inves
tigation" anil declared that the I'nited
States had "gone far toward the day
when we shall have action under pres
sure, instead of in consideration of the
fact.."
Mr. Hughes' declaration wa loudly an
plaudcd. The nominee did not refer to
the Adamnon law, but his remarks were
interpreted by many in the audience a
applying to it.
'We have a new sunt abroad in these
recent day in America,' Mr. Hughes John CI HutchinR Of North
said. "It i tne spirit mat demands leg
ilation in advance of investigation. It I
i the spirit that demands executive ac
tion and congressional action in advance
of an examination of the fact upon
which said action should be based.
"It is the spirit that say: 'Legislate
now and investigate afterward.' It is I
the spirit of force. It is not American.
"In the bottom of my soul I desire
INCREASES
Haverhill Man Nominated
for Governor by the New
Hampshire Republicans
HIS MAJORITY
OVER 3,000 VOTES
Stratford Named by
Democrats
DRASTIC DEMANDS IN CHINA.
2,506 OFFICERS LOST
ALLIES ARE NEARING
TOWN OF COMBLES
ON WESTERN FRONT
British Have Taken Possession of All of
Leuze Wood and Are Now Battling
Between There and Combles
French Break Up Attacks.
London, Sept. B. the British Again
pu6hed forward on the Somme front last
jiight. They gained possession of all of
Leuze wood, the war ofhee announced to
day. The fighting continues between
Leuze wood and Combles and in the vicin
ity of Ginchy.
Paris, Sept. fi. The positions newly
won by the french south of the Somme
were, attacked several times y the Ger
mans last night and the assaults were
broken by the French fire,' the war office
announced to-day.
In the Verdun sector, the Germans yes
terday evening directed an intense bom
bardment against Fleury, but the French
quick firers prevented the German infan
try from advancing.
French Take 6,550 Prisoners Since
Sunday.
The French official statement last night
leads as follows;
"On the Somme front, despite the bad
weather, our troops continued to pro
gress and during the day secured impor
tant advantages. orth of the river.
following a series of briliant actions in
which our troops gave proof of irresisti
ble spirit, we pushed our line into the
district east of Forest. We reached the
west outskirts of Anderiu wood, took by
storm Hospital farm and Rainnette wood,
captured part of Marrieres wood and oc
cupied to the northeast of Clerv the ex
tremity of a bill traversed by the road
from Uouchavesnes to Clerv.
"We also strengthened our positions
north of the river connecting them with
the southern bank and takinj; the village
of Ommiei-ourt, which is entirely in our
hands.
"The war material taken since Sept. 3
in the north ctor includes 32 gun, of
which 24 are heavy guns, two bomb
throwers, two trcmh pins, an important
stock of l.Vt-millimetre shells, one cap
tive balloon and a large number of ma-
By British Army Since Aug. 1, Says Lon
don Statement.
London, Sept. fi. The casualty lists
for the first two weeks in August show
that the British army lost t(O0 officers
killed, 1.702 wounded, 204 missing, a to
tal of 2,50fi. This brings the losses since
the beginning of the war to 38,922 offi
cers, of whom 11,442 have been killed or
died of their wounds. In the first two
weeks of August six lieutenant colonels
were killed.
RUMANIAN WORKS STORMED.
Berlin Reports Sucoess by the Central
Powers.
Berlin, via London, Sept. 6. Seven of
the Tutrakan works in southeastern Ru
mania, including their armored batter
ies, have been stormed by troops of the
central powers, according to to-day's
German official statement.
BURIED WITH HONORS.
Crew of the Zeppelin Which Was Brought
Down by British.
London, Sept. 6. The crew of the Zep
pelin whicih was destroyed in the recent
laid on the east coast of England, will
be interred this afternoon with the ap
pointed miliary honors at Potter's Bar
burial ground about fourteen mile from
Cuffley.
Are Made by Japan, According to Advices
in Washington.
Washington, D. C, Sept. 6. Sweeping
demands, far more drastic than any pub
lished summaries have indicated, are re
vealed in the secret terms being pressed
on China by Japan as a result of the
recent armed conflict - between soldier
of the two nations at Cheng Chiatun in
inner Mongolia. Private d.spatcRes re
ceived here yesterday revealed that Ja
pan seeks indemnities, an apology, and
political concessions throughout the
whole section of inner Mongolia, and
South Manchuria.
The four formal demands are quoted
as follows:
1 Punishment of the commanding
Chinese officer involved in the trouble.
2 Dismissal, with punishment, of the
officers involved.
3 Instruction to Chinese troops in
inner Mongolia and South Manchuria and
to publish this fact broadly.
4 Recognition of "special interests"
for Japan in inner Mongolia and South
Manchuria, comprising powers of police
and administration preference in loans
and in the selection of all foreign advis
ors, etc."
Besides the four "demands" are four
concessions which China is asked to
grant Japan without formal demand, as
tollows:
1 The Chinese army in South Man
churia and eastern Mongolia to employ
Japanese military advisers.
2 Chinese schools and colleges to have
Japanese military inspectors. This is
not limited to any section in dispatches
so far received. .
3 A formal apology in person from
the Chinese governor of Mukden to the
Japanese governor at Dairen, and the
Japanese consul at Mukden for the Cheng
Chiatun trouble.
4 Monetary compensation to the fam
ilies of the Japanese killed, the amounts
to be settled by later negotiations.
Manchester, X. If., Sept. . -Related
return from outlying district filtering
n to-dav increased the lead of Henrv
fair dealing in thi country between I W. Keye of Haverhill over Rosecrana W,
man and man. There no one more Pillsbury-of Londonderry for the Fepub
anxious than I that there should be iiean nomination for governor in the
equity in connect a with all our rela-1 state primary yesterday. Keves was
rbns. I want to see our human re-1 nominated on the face of returns from
source conserved by wise and intelli- all but a few scattering town by a mar
gent action. I want to see every part of gin upwards of 3,000 vote.
ela antagonism vanish in the presence The same returns indicated the choice
of the application of just principle. Ijof John C. Hutehin of North Stratford
want to see men knit together in a com- las the Democratic candidate for governor
mon fellowship. over Albert W. Xonne of Peterboru with
"There is something that precede mr nearly 2.000 vote to spare
demand, however, and that i the willing-1 Congressman Cyi 11 A. Sullowav, a vet
nes to abide by the result of reason, leran of the national House, obtained re
It is the demand that when we do any-1 nomination by the Republican in
thing in thi country we should under-1 three-cornered contest in the first dis
stand the way we travel, where we putltrict
our foot down, and never surrender tol Congressman Sulloway, seeking renom
any force of any kind. It is, a the fu-1 ination in hi 77th year, after nearly 20
ture will unfold, our priceless heritage year of service in Congress, polled prob
that we have a country where intent-1 ably as many vote a both his oppo
gence reign, where there are many op-nents, Rev. Thomas Chalmers of Man
pprtunitie of education, where we are Chester, who had resigned his pastorate
trying to stamp on every abuse working I to make the fight, and George I. Hazel
against our institution. ton, president of the lat state Senate,
We submit ourselve with respect to (,rdon Woodbury of Bedford will oppose
our greatest concern to the arbitrament the veteran legislation a the Democratic
of the public judgment every four year, candidate, having been without an oppo
vtn suomu our arguments, ten wrnai we nent for the nomination
think and desire to bo done. Then we
go to the polls and expres our convic
tions and then every American citizen,
whether he i victorious or defeated, goe
home satisfied, and reason rule. But
the day must never come and I regret to
say we have gone very far toward that
day, when we shall have any action un
der pressure, instead of on a considera
tion of the facts.
Thousands of persons who sought en
trance to the auditorium were turned
away. These Mr. Hughes addressed at
an overflow meeting in the park outside.
Mi. Hughe was accompanied on hu
trip from Louisville to Lexington by A
T. Hert, western manager of the Repub
lican national committee. Mr. Hert said
that 110 arrangements had been made for
holding a meeting at Louisville during
the 30 minutes' stop which Mr. Hughes'
train made there and that it had been
planned to have but one meeting in Ken
tucky, the meeting here.
BALL00NISTS FELL.
Maine
NO IMMEDIATE STRIKE.
On New York Subway and Elevated Car
Lines.
Xew York, Sept. 6. After a conference
of union leaders it was announced last
night that there would be no strike in
the subway and on the elevated railway
lines of this city for at least 4S hours.
A committee which had been authorized
bv the employes to act in the matter
decided to take a vote of all the union
ized carmen. Balloting was immediately
begun and will be continued to-day.
Mayor Mitchel, who is at the mili
tary training camp for civilian at
Plattsburg, was informed of the critical
development, and is expected to' return
to this city, probably to-day. Oscar
Straus, chairman of the public service
commission, who aided the mayor in set
tling the recent surface car strike, ex
pressed the opinion that the present dif
ficulties could be adjusted under exist
ing ugreements.
Vermont Man Had Mishap at
State Fair.
Lewiston, Me., Sept. 6. One of the
smallest crowds which has attended the
Maine state fair for years saw one of the
best racing cards tn manv year yester
day afternoon at the second day of the
big Maine fair. The weather threatened
a downpour all day and though not
drop of rain fell, it kept the people at
home.
An unfortunate accident to the bal
loonist . marred the sport of the after
noon. Jerry Hud-son of Passumpsic, Vt.,
a professional who had been engaged to
give an ascension and parachute drop
each day of the fair, attempted to go up
at 4 o clock, taking with him Philip
Young, 27 years old, of Knox street, Lew
iston, intending to make a double para
chute drop.
The balloon caught fire as it. rose and
when about 40 or 50 feet up the bottom
ot the balloon dropped and the men fell
oung sustained potts fractures of both
legs. Hudson apparently was not so se
verely injured, but complained of pain in
his back. Both men were taken to the
Central Maine General hospital.
STATE FAIR WILL TAKE PLACE.
BODY TAKEN FROM CANAL.
Believed to Be That of James Flannigan
of New York.
Rochester, X. Y., Sept. 6. The body
of a man taken from the Krie canal here
last night is believed to be that of James
I Flannigan of Xew .York. Revommenda-
Senate Put It Through, 42 to 16, at Even- It ions of a groom of that name, found on
REVENUE BILL PASSED.
TIPPED OVER AND BACK.
Auto's Movement Was Enough to Kill
Man and Injure Nine.
Xorthfield, Mass., Sept. 6. One man
was killed and nine persons were injured
yesterday when a touring car, carrying
II passengers, tipped over on one side
and then righted itself on the state
highway, a mile and one-half from their
town.
Isador Gamm, 30. of 4fi. White plare,
Xew Haven, was killed. At the Marlboro
hospital are Mrs. Philip Gamm, her son,
Louis, six years old; Mrs. Rachael Cohen
and Henry, the five year-old son of Isa
dor Gamm. Mr. Cohen is suffering from
concussion of the brain. Others who
were injured were Phillip Gamm; his
on, Kdward, eight years old; Alex and
Morri Gamm and Isador Hnrritz. a law.
yer. Mr. Isador Gamm was the onlv
memner ot tne party to escape injury
ing Session.
Washington, D. C, Sept. 6. The ad
ministration emergency revenue bill de-1
signed to raise $206,000,000 annually
from taxes on inheritances and war mu
nitions and from increases in the in
come tax; creating a tariff commission;
establishing a protective tariff on dye
stuffs; providing for protection of Amer
ican firms from "dumping" at the end
of the war; and giving the president
authority to take drastic retaliatory
steps against allied interference with
American trade was passed late last
night by the Senate. The vote was 42
to 16.
Eliminating the usual formal! ies in or
der to insure adjournment of Congress by
Thursday by the latest, the Senate
rushed the measure, the last on the ad
ministration legislative program, im
mediately to conference.
the bodv, were signed bv Charle Sabin
president of the Guarantee Trust com
pany of Xew York, and Henry B. Brit
on, of Charles P. Briton &. Sons, also of
Xew York, and addressed to Mrs. M. Fox,
care of W. F. Reed, Canaan, Conn.
Secretary Davis Denies Rumor That is
Being Circulated.
White River Junction, Sept. 6. Ru
mors have been started to the effect that
the Vermont state fair will not be held
this year on its scheduled dates, Sept.
12. 13, 14 and 15, because of the recent
ruling by the state board of health that
children under 15 years of age cannot
attend fairs.
Secretary Fred L. Davis of the state
fair commission stated to-day that there
was absolutely no truth in the report
that had been circulate.! in several sec
tions of Vermont and said positively
that the fair would be held on the regu
lar schedule dates. He also stated that
the fair would be the biggest in the way
of exhibitions ever held in its history.
Everything is practically ready for
the opening day. The few details re
maining to make the fair complete will
be finished before the opening day,
Tuesday, Sept. 12.
WANT RIGHT TO VOTE.
Prospective Citiiens Seek the Right at
Preliminary Next Week.
Whether or not a number of citizen
who received their final naturalisation
papers in I'nited State court are to eg
rcie the franchise in the primaries next
Tuesday will be determined when City
Clerk JamiM Mackay receive a reply
from Clerk F. h. Piatt. At the second
meeting of the board of civil authority
lor the revision of the checklist in the
court room at city hall last night, two
newly made citizen presented them
selves for the freeman's oath. It devel-
oped that none of those who were re
cently naturalized will receive their pa
per of certification for some weeks, so
intricate is the government' procedure
in ie of the kind; and therefore, to
the end that none of the new citizen
may be deprived of the right to vote.
Clerk Piatt ha been asked to forward
a list of those who tin k the oath ot
itizemhip last week.
At an adjourned meeting of the board
Thursday evening at 7 o'clock, it is ex
pected that the papers from the clerk
of the court will be in hand and appli
cation for the right to vote will be
honored accordingly.
Ihirty-twn change were made to the
checklist last evening, a against 19 at
the previous meeting. Forty-five names
were stricken from the ht. F. G. How-
land presided and eleven members of the
board present. Ward 3 had the largest
number of change and there were no
appearance from the fourth ward. The
list, follows:
Ward 1 L. E. Hutehin, George Mur
ray, jr., c. m. iiendricksou, w. t. j-it-tle'jolin,
F. H. Abbott, George Henry, W,
J. Jellyman, W. G. Simpson, Ernest
I hompson.
Ward 2-.I. M. Duncan, Dr. H. S. Car
ver, C. ('. Spencer, J. W. Stuart, F. A.
Skillings, W. J. Young, William A.
Clark. O. H. Cushman, George S. De
Merrell. Ward 3-E. J. Dion, .1. G. Forrest,
George C. Stewart, C. S. Cushman, Rich
ard Carpenter, Antonio Barberi, Sevcrin
Cherest, Lyman Whitcomb, Charles Co
lombo, Amelio Lotti, James F. Smith.
Ward 5 Angelo Casani, Peter Giaeh
erio, C. II. Gordon.
Word 6 Charles Gustafson, J. E. Robert.
STREEFMONEY
IPALL GONE
But City Council Digs Down
and Uncovers $2,000
More
TO CARRY WORK
THROUGH THE YEAR
Report That Greater Part of
the Plans Are Con
summated ;
GOES TO VISIT
VERMONT TROOPS
Adjt. Gen. TilloUon Says He Will Re
turn to Vermont Inside of Month
Return of Troops Not
Certain.
St. Albans, Sept. fi. Adjt. Gen. Lee S.
Tillotson expects to leave to-morrow
evening for Eagle Pass, Tex., to visit the
first Vermont infantry encamped there.
lie savs that he has no definite plans but
will probably return to Vermont inside
of a month. He savs he is unable to ex
press any opinion as to what plans are
being made tor the return of the v er-
mont troops to their home state.
Mai. S. S. Watson and Capt. Lcrov A.
Hall have returned to St. Albans from
Colchester, where they have been located
since the Vermont troops were mobilized
in June.
CATAPULTED INTO FENCE.
tin
BRAKEMAN HIT BY BRIDGE.
PASTOR'S COLLARBONE BROKEN.
Was
BLED TO DEATH.
After Striking Leg Against Showcase and
Opening an Ulcer.
Portland, Me., Sept. 6 Martin Fee
ney, agej 35, residence unknown, struck
his leg against a showcase in a drug
I store last night opening an ulcer which
The motorist s, all residents of Xew : had eaten its way into a blood vessel.
Haven, were returning to that city aft-!The shock burst the vessel and the man
er spending the holiday with friends in bled to death before medical attention ' railroad strik
ivMon. isanor i..imm was driving, could te obtained.
Accord ing to a witness, the car, on ip- He apparently ws unaware of his in-
proaching the Marlhoro-Xorthhoro line, jury until a clerk in the sf-re. obserw-
Rev. E. M. Salmon of Swanton
Thrown from His Carriage.
Swanton, Sept. 6. Rev. E. M. Salmon,
pastor of the Church of the. Xativity,
was thrown from his carnage yesterday
afternoon while visiting at Highgatc
Springs and suffered a broken collarbone.
The accident occurred whet Father Sal
mon made too sharp a turn. He wa
taken to the Fanny Allen hospital at
Winooski, where it was said that his
injuries were not serious. For some
imc he was at the head of St. Michael's
college, Winooski and has been in
Swanton for the past two year.
Frank Wallet at the Rutland City Hos
pital.
Middleburv, Sept. fi. Frank Wallet,
brakeman on the butter train, was hit by
a bridge as they passed under it north of
this village about 0 o'clock lat night
and was knocked unconscious. He was
rushed to Rutland City hospital, where
it is understood that he is in a serious
condition.
NEW VERMONT CORPORATION
SIGNED BILL SECOND TIME.
President Wilson Wanted to Make Sure
About 8-Hour Law.
W.
A. Wright Garage Co.. Inc. Has Capi
tal Stock of $io,ooo.
The W. A. Wright Garage Co., Inc., has
filed article of association with the Ver
mont secretary- of state, with capital
stock of f 10,000. The home office is in
St. Johns-bury, and the names of the in
corporators are W. A. Wright, George V.
Caldhoek, I I. Ieach and L. J. Harvey,
all of St. Johnsbury, and J. B. Manley of
Pratt leboro.
CORRUPT PRACTICES BILL UP.
wa moving at a moderate pace. It de
scended a hill safely and was taking a
curve when suddenly the rear wheels
-kidded and th machine toppled over on
its side. Swinging in a half circle, it
ti a
from
South of tbe Soaime the battle ro- whkh it bad come.
tlune gun. v e nae not yet counted I MMdenir righted it-eit and cme
the pri-ner laptured on TucmIit. Utandstiil. facing the direction
ing blood dripping from his leg railed hi
attention to it. Before a doctor could
he reached police headquarter sent an
ambulance and five minutes after it had
delivered Mr. Feeney at the Maine Gen
eral hospital, be mas dead.
The man had been in the city but a
short time.
Senate Derided to Discuss It, Having
Washington. D. C. Sept. . To make Nothing Else to Do.
certain of the legality of th-.' eight-hour Washington. II. .. Sept. 6. The Sen
bill for railroad employes signed la-t ate to-day derided by a vote of 32 to It
Sunday, in order to avoid tbe threatened j to take up Senator ttowon's corrupt prac-
Vesidcnt Wilson lat ti-e bill, w huh would greatly curtail
r.icht sirned the measure for the second i campaign expenses and impose heavy
time. He went trroueii this unusual pro- penalties tor violation ot it terms. ev
cedure becue there was fear that theien Republican voted with the Democrat
t lrods in at'aikinz tbe c-r.t if m ioral- ; to tske up the bill and seven Democrats
ity of the lew- mi-jht make the c laim that jvotd acint the motion,
it wa not effective because it was signed I The vie t take up the bill doe not
on Sundav. ' necessarily forecast a delay in adjourn-
As the rnroll.-d bill went to the state 1:12 ' oncre-s. Tbe Senate took it up.
department la -t right tolWraea pob'ic hi -t.j nothing el-e before it; bnt t'-e
record, it bore the preid"i.t' signature ' adr-.ir.irt ration leaders Mid tht in their
twice, with the dates irpt. 3 and Set- 5. pini'n it cnld not reach a rote.
Jockey Thrown at Rutland Fair But Not
Badly Injured.
Rutland, Sept. 6. An accident marred
the program of the second day at the
fairgrounds when a jockey, Fred McAr
thur of Boston, was thrown head fore
most into a fence near the judges' stand.
Mf Arthur wa-s mounted on Pomona, and
with George Clement riding Sir Giles, got
he starter s word.
The Sir Giles horse seemed to crowd
he Pomona horse towards the pole a
he horses raced for the starting wire and
ist before they reached the judges
stand, the Pomona horse headed for the
mall wooden building and smashed into
le fence. Jockey McArthur was thrown
nto the fence, tearing down three or
our pickets and landing about 20 feet
own the track. .
For several seconds he lay quiet on the
rack Hint within a tew minutes tne
emergency cot from the Jletropolitan In
surance Co.'s hospital tent was brought
to the scene by members of the Gran
ville, X. Y.. boy scouts. He was attend
ed by Pr. ('ran of Bridgewater and Dr.
C. H. Swift of this city, later being re
moved to the hospital tent. Xo bones
were broken but the jockey's shoulder
was badly bruised as was his left hip
and leg. Mr. McArthur is just recover
ing troni a Dad tall in .Montreal two
weeks ago when he was thrown before a
large field, one of the running horses
stepping on his band, inflicting a severe
cut. The remaining heat in this race
were called off again until to-day.
The athletic meet was a strong part of
the afternoon program, the features be
ing the running of O'Brien of this city
and the mile race between Faul Burke of
Rutland, a member of the St. Peter's
Athletic association, and Fred Jones of
Middlehury college, formerly of the Rut
land high school team.
In the half mile O'Brien ran the dis
tance in 2:02 2-5 while again in the quarter-mile
he covered the distance in 53 1-5
seconds, thus estaliinng two state rec
ords. Although he won handily he made
a special effort to break the state rec
ords.
The mile run, which was made in 4:46,
was won by Fred Jones, but he had to
co the limit to win against Faul Burke
a lfi-vear-old youngster who 19 smiled
upon bv admirers ot distance runner
The men finished only a few inches apart.
In the 2211-yard race Rill Eddy of Sche
nectady. N. " .. won from Richard Cape
less of the St. Peter's Athletic associa
tion bv only a few inches.
TO REJOIN BRITISH FORCES.
Capt. A. A. Skeels Has Left Vermont
and Sailed for England.
St. Albans, Sept. . Capt. A. A. Skeels,
son of Mr. and Mr. E. A. Skeels, who
has been visit ins hi parents for in days.
sailed vestcrdav afternoon from Xew
York for Salnki. He was accompanied I ervi-e. water account; H. L. Bond Co.
by Mr. Skeels. who will visit in Folk-jLfi.j3. supplies, water account; Builder
Street finances were aired at the regu
lar meeting of the city council last even-
ng when the city fathers got together
for an hour's aession before the board of
civil authority convened in the court
room. Announcement from the city
treasurer to the effect that the street de
partment bad exceeded its $13,100 appro,
priation for 1016 with four months re
maining came just after a big batch of
warrants had been approved for payment
and maybe the news had a depressing ef
fect on the little congress of legislators.
It was the old story of all going out and
nothing coming in but bills. Members of
the street department argued that the
bulk of the year's work had been done
and that expense in the ensuing four
months are to be light.
Pursuant to this theory it wa recom
mended that an appropriation be made
to carry the department along for a time,
leaving leeway for a supplementary ap
propriation if conditions warrant. Some
felt that conditions will probably war
rant. To the end that operations timv
not be completely suspended, a resolution
appropriating $2,000 to the department
wa passed to a second reading. Talked
onto the document wa an additional leg
acy of $75 for the driver of the city
hearse, as it had been stnted that the
cost of maintaining a free hearse had in
creased since 1015. The re-olution car
ried without a dissenting vote.
People living on upper Drook street,
Webster avenue and Mount Vernon placo
are to receive the benefits accruing from
improved night illumination through a
report from the lighting committee which
recommended that 40-oandlepower !iht
be in-stalled at stated locations on e?cli
thoroughfare. The report was accepted.
1 in me grievance voiced by .Mr. John
Drumgould of Xorth Main street some
time ago, the committee of the whole re
ported that alleged obnoxious conditions
arising from the sewer at the north end
nre vo worse than at any time in recent
years, barring the odor created during
two hot August days when the water
wag low, Xo one dissented from accept
ing the report.
Overseer W. J. Clapp of the poor de
partment reported that a $700 appro
priation wa received by him from the
council for the support of the poor in
July. The -sum of $706.15 was disbursed
and the earnings for 'the month were
$51.02, leaving a net expense of $(155.13.
His statement was accepted and filed.
John h. Hoban, recently designated as
the lfllfi-1017 lessee of the Barre opera
house, presented a bond for $800 with
John Trow and W.. H. Ward as security,
which was accepted. The request of H.
1). Graves for permission to fink a gaso-4
line tank at the Bennett garage on Jef
ferson street was referred to the street
and fire committee with power to act.
Objection to congesting Jefferson street
with automobiles was raised in connec
tion with the request. A petition for a
light on Xelson street was referred to
the lighting committee. Member of the
council were asked to certify that a resi
dent of this citv, confined in the state
hospital for dipsomania, is unable to pay
his way and the matter was held open
for an investigation.
Building permits were granted the fol
lowing applicants: Charles Brown, to re
pair roof at 41 Granite street; W. H.
Wcscott, to erect garage on Xelson
street; A. B. lane, to erect lumber shed
on Hatchelder street; H. C. Patterson, to
build toolhouse annex on Xelson street;
A. II. Wilkins, to build a house on Maple
avenue; F. Ottonelli, to build a shed on
Granite street; James Stephen, to build
a sleeping porch on Addison street; Wal
ter Emery, on the recommendation of the
inspector, was refused permission tc
transfer a henhouse on Elm street.
Permits to wire were granted as fol
lows: Oldsinobile company, three lighti
on Granite street; Hoyt t Milne, to win
crane off Depot square; Boyce A Robin
son, lights in small Miles block; C E
V. Reed, lights, 6 French street; M. S
B. L. & P. Co.. ninemetcr installed;
Arthur Parks, lights, 74 Floasant street;
C. L. Currier, lights. Sheridan street.
Warrants were approved in the follow
ing order: Road Machine Co., $7, Georg
Brigham. $12, painting, street account;
engineering department. $200.1:1, ervices .
engineering, street, resurfacing, surfao "
sewer, sidewalk, bridges and culvert am
water accounts; Lilly Wagon Co., 611C
supplies, street account; C. W. Avenll !
Co., $85.69, supplies, street, engineering
water, city buildings and tire account
L. McLeod. $K.S., blacksmithing. strce
account; Montpelier v Barre Light I
Power Co.. $76043. street lighting, street
city building and bre accounts; .ev
England Granite Tool Works. $7.83
sharpening, street account; Xew Englant
Road Machine Co., $4. repair, street ac
count; S. X. Tarker. ?.!., repairs, street
and fire account; A. J. Stewart. $..14
repair, street account; Cnion ( lothinj
Co., $4.75. rubber coat, street account;
Western Electric Co.. $4.V.S4, supplies
street account; D. M. .Mile. I oal to.
$42.12. coal, street account; H. ( ole, $40
assisting engineer; F. O. Lee. $125, salan
a engineer and water superintendent
Anna Robertson. assisting water u
perintendent; A. M. Rossi, $49.95, serv
ice a alderman; ls neiiviue, c..-vi
stone and Liverpool. England, while her
husband is in tnpland. I"r. Skerls. who
ha been with the British expeditionary
forces in Saloniki for a year, expect to
rejoin those fwc- for another year's
a" r ice.
Iron Co.. . supplies, water account;
.1. K. Cahmn. $74.29, service on water
mains; Jackson Vahe Co.. $301.50, fur
plic. Fairbanks Co.. $Vt.e. supplies, t
ICosliCiiaU oa fourth oa-O
