Daily and Sunday ?\/\
HERALD OV
Cents a
Month
DELIVERED TO YOUR HOME.
THE
.
HERALD
AS first announced January 1, 1916, The Herald
guarantees full money's worth to the purchasers
of artici? advertised in the ?display column! of aus
paper by ?any Washington merchant.
(Circular Fmrmitked Ufo? Regniti).
NO. 3401.
WEATHER?CLOUDY; COLDER.
WASHINGTON. D. C. MONDAY. FEBRUARY 7, ??H0.
ONE CENT.
WILSON TAKES
UP NOTE TODAY
WITH LANSING
State Department Ready to
Settle Lusitania Case With
out Formal Disavowal.
WILSON MUST DECIDE
President Gives No Hint of
Attitude on Concession to
Terminate Negotiations.
GERMANY WILL GO NO FURTHER
Those Close to Embassy Say Kaiser
Went Limit in Admitting
Obligation to Pay.
President Wilson and Secretary of
State I-ansine are scheduled to begin
final consideration of the Lusitania case
at a conference at the White House to
day. The President has had the German
reply t-?ftwe him since it waa lolivereU
to the sitate Department by Count Ton
Bernstorff, Friday. Secretary I-ansine
and Counsel k>r Polk have held seve ral
conferences on the subject and have
reached diiTerent conclusions which will
be submitted ta the President today.
From a? ?uthortattvc source it wan
Warned yesterday that the State Depait
ment has receded from the position net
forth in the formal notes to Berlin that
there must oe an express disavowal or
an admission in ao many words that the
?inking of the Lusitani was an illegal
The l'nited States does not tastet on
Ihe words "disavow al*' or "illegal" In
the terms of settlement it was said yes
terday. It <s willing to If a ve to tier
many the choice of words t?> convev this
meaning. Thia explanation Is taken as
an admlsaton that the State Deosrtment
la willing to accept an implied, instead
>f an explicit admission of the il legali I)
of the Lusitania attack
Whether the President will make th's
on-eseion in return fur those made hy
Jermany m Its latest note is the qjes
vion remaining unanswered lust night,
'or the President has given no intimation
? bat ever as to hia attitude.
Obligation to Par Admitted.
If the United States will concede
thi? point, it was thoroughly under
stood in official and diplomatic quar
ters last night, there can be no doubt
of the prompt settlement of the Lusi
tania controversy.
Germany already h a.- conceded the
other niai ? demand of the United
Statea by admitting obligation to pay
indemnity for American lives lost, in
stead of offering such indemnity as
n<-t of grace, as in the earlier nego
tiations.
Hy sources close to the German Em
bassy tt was said yesterday that Ber
lin has gone as far as it intends to
go In meeting the demands of the
United States. This is well under
stood by President Wilson and Secre
tary Lansing.
The belief persisted yesterday that
the long drawn out Lusitania negotia
tions are near a satisfactory solution.
But in all this talk of favorable set
tlement there ia the reservation that
President Wilson may take the bit in
hi.? teeth and refuse the concessions.
V* 11 ?mi Conna?t? No (?nf.
Une fact that led officials to believe
the President is favorably disposed is
that he has not called any members
of his Cabinet or members of the Sen
ate and House Foreign Relations Com
mittee into counsel. It Is confidently
believed that he would consult these
officials before rejecting the German
proposals, especially since it has been
made known that Germany ?HI go ns
further
PERISCOPE HIS GUIDE
IN WALKING BACKWARD
Patrick Harmon Reaches Chicago in
"Reversed** Walk from Coast
to Win Wager.
Special to The W?btiift?ie LU.? id.
Chicago, Feb. ?.?Patrick Harmon ba-*k- ?
(d into Oak paxk thia evening, look off
his periscope, ?nd went to bed. Tomor
row he will back through Chicago, and
later on. if there is no accident, he will
back into New York and collect VsOOrt.
Harmon claims to be the champion
backward walker of the world. His Job
now ts to walk backward from San
Francisco to New York in 280 days. He
has already done two-thirds of the dis
tance, and is thirty-five days ahead of
his schedule. He explains that it Is to
settle a bet of $7?.000.
To prevent cheating, he is accompsnied
by another man who walks forward. In
order to avoid collisions. Harmon has a
little periscope attached to his shoulder
*o that he can look "ahead," which
means "behind. **
Russian Dancer Quite.
Boston. Mass., Feb. 6. ?Because she re
lented the appearance In the company
of Miss Lydia Lopokova. who joined It
in New York. Mme Xenia Maklezowa
hss left the "Ballet Russe," and Miss
. odo*c a aew ranks u th? star dancer.
Kaiser Kept Men and Ships to
Raid England Ready for Years
Until Project Became Known
Germans Planned to .Land Four Corps at Hull and Pierce the
Heart of Britain, but Plot Was Betrayed and
a Fleet Was Placed on Guard.
By JOHN i*. BAI.DER9TON.
<Opyn?ht. 191?.)
London. Feb. 17.?Ten year? ago, the or
ganization nf the British fleet ?as radi
cally altered, new bases wen commenced
and the policy of keeping the capital
ahlpa of the navy In the North Sea wma
adopted. Prior to that time the great
base? of the fleet were Devonport. Ports
mouth. Chatham and Harwich, choeen
with a view to war with France rather
than with Germany.
The reason for this sudden change was
the discovery of a Oerman plan of inva
sion. How that plan was obtained will
make a thrilling story when It can be
told.
GERMAN GASES
KILL OWN MEN
Great Teuton Reservoir De
molished by French Shells
and Wind Does Rest.
SUFFOCATING FUMES BLOW
BACK OVER ENEMY LINES
Constant Bombardment of Hun's
Trenches Reported?Several Large
Munition Depots Blown Up.
.Spcaat CaMe to TM* vTaat?nsKaa Herald.
I.onclon, Feb. 6.?For two days an un
casing und destructive artillery lire haa
bea??? directed by the allies on the Ger
man trenches from Ihe Channel to the
Vosages. On the bombardment alon?? the
Champagne sector on Saturday a ?
markable tragedy Is reported by to
night's French official statement.
On the Plateau of Navarin, the French
shells demolished the great German res
? avoir of suffocating ajases which had
been construct???! there. The gas poured
out In vast waves and rose ln gigantic
pillars of dark, deadly vapor.
Blown Over Trearhea.
While these clouds were at their dens
est, the wind veered and drove them
back and over the German lines. The re
sult must have been appalline.
Pome notion of the results of the
bombardment may he leathered from the
report that ln Belgium, German trenches
were destroyed and batteries silenced;
in thr Champ?gne other trenches were
wrecked and munition depots blown up,
and around Soissons there was a steady
cannonading.
The German official report makes no
mention of the extended bcnibardment
but claims that attempts of French de
tachments to advance southwest of
Neuville an.! south of La Basses Canal
?vere repul?cd with heavy losses.
28 Air Battles
Fought in a Day
London Reports Five German
Machines Driven Off and
One Disabled.
Sperai < ?hi? to Th? W?ibinfloa Herald.
London. Feb. ??. (Official).?Last nicht
our troops occupied the weetern sides of
three mine cratere In the vicinity of the
Vermelles-I-a Bassce road. Y pr?s was
shelled during the night.
On Saturday th**re were twenty-eight
combats in the air and in five cases th-?
German machin? was driven down within
the C?erman lines. The sixth was forced
to descend with a disabled engine and
broken propeller.
One of our machines which went on a
reconnoissance has not returned.
The winch of a hostile captive balloon
wa? struck by one of our shells and the
balloon broke loo.-*?*?.
JEALOUS OF PRINCESS? ASHES.
Wife Declares -?pomar ??till l ber
uhe. Memory ??f ??< harmer."
Pittsburgh. Feb. . 6?.\?hes of the
"I'rlnceaa of Pilsen." who in life wss al
leged to have been the soul mate of Otto
Meineman. weattly Jeweler of the North
Side, were the cause of Mrs. Matilda E.
tlelneman ordering her husband from lier
home in Bellevue.
When the "Princess" died ilememan la
alleged lo have taken her ashes to his
room, arousing the Jealousy of Mrs.
Heineman. ?*? ho is ."all ?ears old.
Sues Heaven-made Husband.''
I ?enver. Col.. Feb. 6?1-dward U Cooper,
a ?-ousin of the late Gov. Cooper and for
merly proprietor of the Metropole and
Savoy Hotels In I<en?cr. is defendant in
a suit filed in the District Court here by
Anna B. Stahl, a stenogiapher, who al
leges that the defendant is her "heaven
made husband."
Von Buelow in Lucerne.
l-ondon. Feb. 6.-An Kxraiancc Telegram
dispatch from ?Geneva says tliat Pilncc
?<?n ButVlow has arrived at Lucero?,
The German general ?Uff Intended, at
the beginning of the war with Oreat
BrltT?n, to land a force of four army
corps at the mouth of the River Humber.
The army of Invasion, provided France
and R'i.-Ma remained neutral, waa to be
commanded by Field Marshal von der
Goltz, now in charge of the army yhleh
I? massing at Jerusalem and Beersheba
for the attack upon the Sues Canal. It
waa to have been composed of 160.0*00 in
fantry. fi.000 cavalry with Its horses, STS
guns, with ammunition and supplies
enough to last the Invaders, in the opin
ion of tlie German staff, for twenty
seven days.
CONTINt.'ED ON PA?E THffEE.
DECREE POLES
MUST STARVE
England Holds Food Famine
Due io Seizures by Dual
Alliance.
DENIES RIGHT OF AMERICA
TO RELIEVE DISTRESS
No Need to Send Supplies to Stricken
Country, Grey Says. Until Ber
lin Changes Policy.
Special Csble to The VTt??h?.gt?i Hcrtld.
London. Feb. ?.?The foreign office to
night made public the correspondence ex
changed relative to a proposed scheme of
relief for Poland.
Replying to Chairman Hoover, of the
Belgian Relief Commission, Sir Edward
Grey states that In the face of the ac
cumulating evidence of Germany and
Austrian requisition? In Poland, the for
eign secretary fears it will be impossible
to enter Into an arrangement with regard
to any ?scheine of reiWT until the German
and Austrian governments shall bave pro
hibited the export of foodstuffs from Rus
sian Poland and shall have guaranteed
that the native stocka will not be drawn
upon to maintain the armies of occupa
tion.
A cablegram was sent to Premier As
quith from Chicago on behalf of organi
sation numbering f>00,00o American citi
zens and representing 1000.000 Polish
speaking residents of the L'nited States,
requesting the government to raise the
blockade against ships carrying provisions
and clothing to the war-stricken districts
of Poland.
Premier Asquith, replying, says that
the government Is considering the ques
tion in consultation with the French gov
ernment, but they face accumulating
evidence not only of a present shortage
tn the necessaries of life In Poland, due
to the systematic confiscation and ex
port of native stocks by the occupying
armies, hut notwithstanding the deplor
able condition of the country, the process
of spoliation continues.
The prime minister, continues, saying
that It Is impossible to resist the con
clusion that the stoppage of such exports
and the restitution of the stocks seized
by Germany and Austria would remove
the danger of starvation and that little
if any importation from overseas would
be necessary.
HEIRESS WILL PROPOSE
TO MAN OF HER CHOICE
Colorado Girl. Worth $100,000. De
clares She Will Exercise Leap
Year Privilege.
Hpedal to Tlie Washington Herald.
Boulder, Col.. Feb. ?.?Before ions Mlas
Kredonia Bergson, of .Mtona, ?ivho is to
inherit her fathers ?100,000 ranch and
other property, will have exercised her
Leap Year privilege and chosen her hue
band. She made known her Intention at
a rarty which she Rave at her fathers
home.
Miss Bergson aiv'ured her guests that
she Intends to cuter upon her search for
a husband with the utmost sincerity.
Hitherto she has respected the wishes of
her father. Peter Bergson, that eh? form
no sentimental attachment until she had
completed her ISth year, and though she
Iras has many sultore. Miss Bergson has
shown none of them special favor.
She became 18 years of age recently.
and her announcement, her friends say.
is quite in keeping with her determination
of character.
The Leap Year privilege Is usually re
garded as a jest.*' Miss Bergson ?aid. "I
?itend to make it a fact. ? There is no
reason why a young woman should not
propose when she sees a man whom she
believes would make h*r happy."
English Attack Repulsed.
Berlin. Feb. ??(Official, ??Some small
English detachments which tried to ad
vance west of Me."sincs and south of La
Bassee Canal were repulsed yeeterday.
Near Bapaumt*? an Knglish biplane was
compelled to descern? snd the occupants
.war? made prisoner?.
LONDON NOW TALKING SLANG,
IS EDNA MAY'S DECLARATION
^tmmW
EDNA MAY.
Spedai tn The Wuhingt?e Denld,
Now York, Fetx *>.?"There's h big boom in American slant; in London .lust
now. Picadflly sounds like Broadway. And the fun of it all is that the English
like it immensely."
Edna May. who in private life Is Mrs. Oscar lewisohn. has a keen sense of
humor. Her smile is ae ready as her wit is nimble. Add to this smile a charm
ing personality and an undeniable beauty that was so admired and later so
missed by the New York pobllc and you have some Idea of the picture Mrs.
Lewisohn made in her apartments at Sherry's yesterday afternoon.
The Englishman will say with great gusto, "I get you, Mr. Fte\ erson.-' ani
then smile back with understanding complacency when an American, hearing.
laughs aloud.
Mrs. Mohr Sick;
Confined to Bed
Woman Acquitt?e} of Murder
Will Not Be Able to Leave
Her Room for Days.
8p?*eUl tn The WuMaetaa HfnJd.
Providence. R. I., Feb. 6.?Mrs. Elisa
beth Francis Mehr, acquitted of the
charge of instigating the murder of her
husband. Dr. C. Franklin Mohr, has been
confined to her bed ever since the verdict
was rendered Saturday night. Mrs. Mohr
collapsed after reaching her home. At
tending physicians say It will be days
before the widow Is able to leave her
room.
Her children, Charles, aged 10, and Vir
ginia, 7, are her constant companions.
Friends in great numbers called today
to offer their sympathy, but were un
able to see her. Her favorite niece. Miss
Ella Hennon. of North Adams. M ss., is
at her bedside.
"My rn.ajnm.-i will get better." was all
little Charles said today when asked if
hlt> mamma was ill.
At the Attorney General's ofllce today,
it was learned that further charges
against Mrs. Mohr in connection with
the attempt to kill Miss Emily t*?. Burger
would In all probability be dropped.
Dig Out of Jail with Spoon.
T'reka. Ca1.. Feb. 6.?Oeorge Walton and
"Doc" Riley. prisoners in the county Jail,
were put in Irons by Sheriff Howard, fol
lowing the discovery of an attempt by
Uw to escape by digging a hole through |
a brick wail of the structure with a small
spoon and a penknife. They had com
pleted the hoi?? and were crawling nut
v. hen intercepted. Walton is held on a
charge of murder, Riley is awaiting trial
for burglary.
House Bu? iu London.
London, Feb. 6.?Col. E. M. House.
President Wilson's special emoy to the
capitals of the belligerent nations, is ex
pected to arrive In London tomorrow or
Tuesday,
Nab Auto Drivers
Having No Cards
-
Twelve Motorists from Capi
tal Arrested on Boulevard
in Maryland.
Spaiai to The Washington Herald.
Hyattavllle. Md.. Feh. 6,-Pheriff Robert1
F. Gat's snd Deputy Sheriff Thomas M. ?
Garrison arrested twelve automobiliste
on the Washington-.Baltimore boulevard :
today for not having operator's carde.
Thoae from Washington and the ad
dresses they gave were:
Ueut. C. Battle, of the U. tf. S. May
flower; R. B. Martin, fil New York ave
nue northeast; John H. Fischer. 1519!
Fifth street northwest; J. F. Schriller, |
1130 Fourteenth northwest; F. rate. 4S J
? street southwest; C. It. Gibson, Wil
lard Hotel; Harry Poe. 1611 ? street!
northwest; ?. E. Fultz. 21*1 Kckington ]
apartments; H. I... Byrde, 623 F street
nOrthWeet; A. F. Totter, Wff ? street
northwest, ?nd TV. H. Ream. 1112 ?
street southeast.
J. A. Maedel. who said h*? lived at ICir?
Fourteenth street, was charged with op
erating a car though under IS years of
age.
Rice Smugglers Shot.
Rotterdam, Feb. fi?The first result of
the Dutch government's stricter meas
ures against smuggling was seen when
two men were found trying to convey
rice across the frontier al Bergend? 1. In
the region of Nymegen. The frontier
guard opened tire. One man was shot in
the neek and the other in the stomach.
both fatally.
Russ Planning Advance.
Petrograd. Feb. ti. ?IArge numbers of
guns and a ? ast quantity of ammunition
are being assembled hy the Russians
In preparation for another offensive
against the St r y pa, which will. It is ex
pected, extend along the entire line as !
far as the Bessarnblan frontier.
A ' otioD Plnnt Plrtnre
In colors has he?n issued by Southern
Rv. For copy apply ?05 15th st. nw.?
Adv.
There Will Be No Germany
When Great War Is Ended,
Declares Rudyard Kipling
Conflict Now One of Extermination, English Writer Says,
with Allies in Position to Crush Teuton Militarism Forevejf/^
Kaiser Now at Zenith of Power and Tottering to Fall.
B) ni im \ ??? KiPi.ix..
bprciil Cable tn Tli-r WaBbia^oe Henld.
J'aris, Feh. 0.?Wc ?re pamrtr.,; through
dark, damp days, w h ich arc nul good
for the soul.
1 have known t>ome black p?????? and
doubt bats shall know won*?". The Ger
man is exploiting all the psychological
factors he is < j pable of understanding
and his press just now is engaged in con
firming the world in the idea of a mo
tionless ;in<l unbeatable Mi<ha--1, Mrad
dl-ed acromi Europe and disdainful o? his
lini" enemies.
But lhe Idea Is beginning to penetrate
tbr- Tentili ai?ead that this is not a wa?
uf victories, but ;i war of extermination
FIGHT WAGED
ON BURLESON
North Dakota Representatives
Threaten Impeachment as
Result of Appointment.
SENATOR GRONNA UP IN ARMS;
MAY DEMAND INVESTIGATION
Contends Naming in Recess of Man
Senate Previously Had Refused to
Confirm Is Unconstitutional.
?Postmaster General Burleson, the Prea
ident"? jtolith ;il lieutenant, face? the pos
sibility of a Senato! ia! investigation at
the instan? e of Senator Gronna, of
North Dakota, and im;-eachm?*'nt pro
ceeding;* by members of the House from
that State.
The complaint a?amst the Poatmat-ter
General Is that he has exceded bis
power In connection with rosta I appoint
ments and hag permitted the payment
?of p?M1< funde as xantfr-ensattoi to the
poat master at TVvfla ?-sk?, ?. Dak.,
when no law exists Justifying it.
The situation -grows out of the insis
tence of the Poe t off i c*? I>epartment that
John H. Bloom shall be postmaster of
Devils I-ake. The resulting struggle be
tween the executive and the Senate Is
without parallel in the history of Con
gress. John H. Bloom was appointed
postmaster of Devils' Lake March *.
1914, and rejected by the Senate August
"4 following. Charges were filed again.1?**.
him and his confirmation not only was
fought by Republicans but by Demo
crats under the lead of Senator Thomas
of ?Olorado.
In OlfC Denpltr Opponi! Inn.
On September *3?, 1?14, Marjorie J.
Bloom, wife of the rejected appointee,
was nominated. The Senate construed
thi? as a mere subterfuge and Mrs.
Bloom, too, was rejected October 13, 1914.
Immediately upon the adjournment of
Congress Mrs. Bloom was given a recess
appointment ?nd, despite h*T previous
rejection, her name was again sent to
the Senate. December IS, 1914, and again
rejected January 4. 1915. John H. Bloom
was given a rece.es appointment w hen
? "ongrcss adjourned, but no nomination
has been sent in this session. Bloom, it
was reported, has been drawing his sal
ary as r?ptmaster under his recess ap
pointment.
It is claimed that tbe repeated ap
pointment of John H. Bloom, in view
of the refusal of the Senate to give Its
consent to his appointment as required
by tlie Constitution, is a violation of
the provisions of the Constitution and
that all compensation paid to him is
illegal. Senator Gronna either will
attach a provision to the postoffice ap
propriation bill prohibiting the pay
ment of compensation to persons
whop?* nominations have been rejected
by the Senate, and requiring officials
responsible to reimburse th*? govern
ment for money so expended: or he
will offer an amendment providing for
an investigation of the Bloom case.
In the House several Republican
members are discussing the advisa
bility of submitting articles of im
\eachnr-nt.
ALLIGATORS FLEE FROM FIRE
GI mit:?' Into Walir atad \re -airil
Ostriches Prrllala.
Tusla, Okla.. Feb. A?Charta?? race's
private -"?oo,?' which li-* maintain???! at
Paind Springs, nt-ar here, (or the Inatruc
tlon of several ???-?ire of orphans whom
ho has adopted, waa destroyed by fire,
today.
Twenty-five alligator* escaped death lay
necking refuge in water-filled pits. Th?
lacars were scorched hairles??. The entira
flock of fifteen ostri-.hes perished
Italian Liner Mounts Guns.
New York. Feb. 6?The 1? Velo<-e liner
Slampalla arrived here today with two
*.-inoh guns mounted on her stern. Capt.
Lavarello said his aruns were for defense
only.
May Free Burgomaster.
Zurich. Feb A?It is reported that the
release of Purcomaster Matt, of BruaaeU,
is imminent
I lor his species We in Kneland are U.*t
lei informa un this point than we wer?
a \ ear aso.
When a whole nation f?i into the
? Ircnche? there fain be no victories, there
? an only l*c killin?*-;. and at I? jr-t ihr. ?j
? nations deaire cr.-eedlly lhat Ihe T.utonr
be, klll<*d in ? tail since he cannot Ix* ?
? kill.*d in wholesale.
The German ? ?mint withdraw from hts |
present lin???. He dare not heacase he ?
w.?uld have to explain that a.tlon it, his!
own people. He must us?- lilms'l. up j
(ra.JusUv. ?-ither hy advancing aid w.n- ?
nine \i.-toiies, or hy Ma>ing wh.-re he is. I
And ?hen he is used up there will b?? '
cumini ?? on i*a?;e thkit..
WARRANT OUT
FOR AUTOiST
E. C. Holle, Who Drove Car
that Killed Irving Owens,
Faces Arrest.
ACCUSED MAN SAYS HE WAS
NOT DRIVING MACHINE FAST
Arrange* to Gi\e Bond ?Herbert A.
Moore in Casualty Hospital Suffer
ing from Fractured Skull.
Justice of the Peace Robert Joyce, of
Hyattavllle, last night issued a ?arrant
for the arrest of Edwin *'. Holle, of Nor
folk, driver of the automohl?? thst '
crashed Into a tree n*ar ? la d^ ? (.bur? }
early yest^rdiy morning, instantly kill
ing Irving Owens, of WaehinKior,. hnd
rrobably fatali ? Injuring Herbert A
Moore, another passenger. Th. warrant
chargea manslaughter, ?reckl? y? : vina.
speeding, and havinc no operator?? card.
Sheriff Thomas Harrison arrived In
"W***htng?On *es?t nigiTr and may ?serve
the warrant today.
Irving Owens, 34, a clerk in ?he c ?fee
tlonery atore at Polis Theater. Kdwin ,
C. Hoik. Z?, of Norfolk, an employe ofj
the American Tobacco ?Ompany. and!
Herbert A Moon. Z". of Malone. ? (\.
?? employe of the l^rillard Tobacco.
' Ompany. started for Baltimore In tl
hired car shortly after Saturday mid
night.
Holl? told th?? polle*? yesterday that h?
was driving at a moderate spe-^d and
thought he was on a straight Btrrtch of
road, but suddenly, at an unexpected j
curve, the machine ewervt-d and cashed!
: into the tree. Owen? ara* killed Instant-!
, ly . Moore Buffered a fractured skull, and
Holle was badly bruised and cut. Th*1 I
| machine was demolished.
? Thf accident occurred at a point about
on?? mile from the Di ?tritt lin*1, shortly
i before 3 o'clock yesterday morning The;
; echo of the crash attracted another ma-?
( chine and the Injured men w? re rus bed
' to ?he Casualty Hospital. The body of ',
lOweni was taken in charge hy the coun- ,
jty authorities and will t?e held for reta-1
I Uvee.
1
j Holle is expected to lca^ e the hospital
today and lt is thought he will be imme-'
diately arrested by SherMT Garr?a?**. It :
was stated last night that, ant lei ratine ?
arrest. Holle haa arranged to giv- iond. ?
Police Guard
U. S. Cruiser
Line Bridges in New York to
Prevent Dropping of
Missiles.
Spreial te "toe Ws^?Rftoo ? erti d
New York. hVb. <. epectal poll?
guards were stationed s? Brooklyn and !
Manhattan bridges at noon toaa> while;
the l'nited States armored cruiser Wm-h
ington passed under them to Brooklyn
Navy Yard. The details were mad*? by
Police Inspector I>i11on at the ?eque?* of
Rear Admiral Isher, commandant of the
navy >ard.
The reason offered for this unusual ?-? 1
tion was that it was desired to preveiit
the dropi Ing of anything on the deck of ?
the cruiser. It was denl**d that bomb?
were the missiles feared.
The Washington reached the harbor
ithia morning from . Iti. Six uniformed
policemen were assigned to guard Brook- i
lyn Bridge and eight to Manhattan
Bridge. By the addition of a number of
plain cloth's men the strength of the
guard at both structure? was brought to
about t*cnty-flve.
Secrecy surrounded the case. I'ora
mander Prank 13. I'pham. aid to Rear
Admiral Isher, declared tonight there '
was no reason for suspecting anyone of ;
contemplating dropping bomb? on th?
Washington.
14.900 Germans Interned.
l-ondon Feb. 6-A Reuter dtspate*
from Madrid says It has been officiai ly
announced that MO Omini regulars and
14,00? German colonial troops hive croas
ed the border from Kamerun. Western
Africa, into Spanish Guinea, where they
hav? boss interned.
FORD HAS NEW
PLAN TO STOP
itfflOPEAN WAR
Detroiter Refuses to Give De
tails, but Intimates It In
volves Trip Abroad.
ISNOTDISCOURAGED
Some Who Made Last Peace
Voyage to Be Included
in New Venture.
DENIES HE MET WITH RERUFFS
AIk? Declares There Wa* No Strife ?ft
0*car II Mme. .Schwimmer
Not Dictator.
bptc-tel I? Hi? Vr-L-^iiBr-OT H"T?ld.
< 'Incagli. Feb. ? ?Henry Kord. ?hoT
reticent mo-d . or.r-n.tng hs wrnl
peace e ? pedi Uon h*s put the world In a)
uuandary, kick?-d the bushel from ov?*
his tu;ht just b? for? his dep^ture for h
hi* home in I let roh ttxi ? -. ami bj th*
peareful glow of rhis mottest flame a
party of newspap-r rmr ? aat by Mr
Ford's ?t-ide in a J'ullmsn compartment
and ? ? -down his ideas an p-reparednrss.
Mr. Ford had just completed a flying
vtsit to <*til?'*go to attend the banquet
of ihe Michigan Society of CMrafa
"Aa I said last night," safd the pene*
;?romot**r. "wtiea a man takes up a knife
and fork, that rmans he intends to at
tack something. The men ?ho pra?'*'i
pranaredne-as ere the ones who mrUl get
a war for us .
"The pea?*? ship is a forerunner of tx
larger nnd mot*- efficient plan that I
h ? \ e In this prop* ? and ? for peace. I
cannot give nut any det-itl?? -ockcemlng
this plan for a week to come. "
Om Line? mt Rereit ?t??.
"it there an> relation bttwten thlt
new* plan ;ind your r? ent trip on tfct
peace ship**" he tu a ske4.
Well. It ts along Orne name linea I
??-hall tiirlwde tn the nf? v ??te*- ?me of
the persons who ?ccnmranted mc on tfcat
tin But. > ou see, 1 am ?after t>p-s of
persons rather ihan persooalUw-v Th#
reople ?eroe* the matar, ?hen they ?aw
the pert-onnel nf th< part ?, jre: e aston
ished. They t \\m rted to nee a *>uncn of
? ic? bro?'?' ard here I had a legular
community of peopl*- Tbey would htrd
ly believe mt ?h*n I told them OTC-r
there that 1 could have brought thou
san d s more such person* wishing peace
if I had the room."
'Is it tr'ie. Mr Ford, that your party
met with rebuff and ridicule st the hand*
of the peopie of Kurope?"
*I should say not." snapped the gray
eyed man. If >ou could here ?*-en the
ree* ptions accorde?! us you would hav?
realized how d<-ep|\ those people want
The expedition ?as s success.
and if I thought it ?sas necessary or ex
p-edicnt. 1 d .send over fifty more .such
shipt
Denle? Intimai Strife.
"As f??r th*- storte? o? internal strife
bel ? ?- ? members of t >-e party, there u
absolutely nothing to then?. We had no
trouble among o urne I vea."
? And tht reports that Mine *eh?immer
assumed s dictatorial attitude toward
0 th* ? members "f the party?"
"Mor? nonsense, nothing to them st
?11 Mme Seh? immer could not have
assumed dictatorial powers in that part\ .
1 h.-? m> manager there ?lth the party
sit the time, and without finances Mme.
Schwimmer could have done nothing st
all
Mr Ford ?as then asked ? hy he had
refrained from any comment on the out
' oine of the expedition A stnlle spread
over his care-worn countenance as he re
plied :
I Just ?anted to ?we ? hat the de
vot?e? of preparedness would hsve to aay
e bout It I ?anted to keep them guess
ing, snd now I'll keep them still guessing
HS to ?hn my next move is going to be."
he added, as he looked sympathetically
at the men around him busily writing
I'd like to gi\e you the details of my
new plan, but I must ??it until all of tl??
part?, have retarne?*, io this country *
MRS. MABEL CHANDLEE
VICTIM OF POISONLNG
Wife of Prominent Capital Attorney
Removed to Lmergency Hoapital
Suffering from Mercery.
Mra Mib.1 ?'handle?, a? if?? of Alex
Cha ? tl la*?, promlntnt attorney, waa
lakfn lo thf Km.rf.iicy Hoapltal from
hfr apartment in th? Hotfl Belleaue
at 1:30 o'clock In a ecriou? co-adllion
aa thr re?ult of e mal low In?; alx bi
chloride of mrrcury tablet?.
Mr?, Chandlee telephone-d thf nifht
clerk. Charle?? ? Woradbar?.. and aaktad
that a doctor be Mimmoaet] Immedi
ately Thf clfrk t?lfphont>d tor the
Kmerarenr? Hoapltal atnbulanr.
Mr. Chandl???*. who ia with thf Arai
of Chandlee * ?'handlff. patent at
torney?, I* *n New York oa burinera.
?? la expected to return to Waabias
uro today
Hurled Throofto Wiad???*?
Philadelphia. Feh C - Kdwtn Brwfn. a
private detaactive for the Penn?? I vanta
Railroad, ta il???l today aa tbe raaeult of
a iialoon brawl In wh??-*i he waa aeeii
<-ra*htng thro.iah a plate-flan window
His Juajular a ein tana ?everatd
