FINANCIAL EDITION
NIGHT
EXTRA
NIGHT
EXTRA
tmtmn
i&mntx
fifciv 22&P. VeYnc
---l-2SP -W(K -J-LJ -sit fB
VOL. II.-KO.125
MJARS
CROSS
HURL FRENCH
AUSTRIANS
M"""'
Three Divisions Open Teuton Offensive
Against Allies'
Albanian Situation Forces
Meeting of Italian Cabinet
First Clash on Violated Neutral Soil "Won by Bulgarians.
Turks Mass on Rumanian Frontier Weather
Conditions Favor Teutonic Drive
Toward Adriatic
H
The Balkans arc again the stage of the great war. Two separated
movements have a correlated significance.
The Teuton drive on the Allies' base at Salonica has begun, according
to reports which state that Bulgar forces have violated Greek neutrality
by crossing the frontier and engaging the French defenders, who were
driven back. One report says that only Bulgar outposts were concerned;
another declares that at least three divisions crossed the line. Meanwhile,
Turks are reinforcing the Bulgars on the Rumanian frontier and the Central
Empires have issued a menacing warning to Bucharest against undue in
timacy with the Allies' chancelleries, i
Austrian cavalry has reached the Arzeni River, in Albania, and nro
now within a few miles of Durazzo, the capital, and their objective. Im
provement in weather conditions has caused such renewed Teutonic activity
in Albania that the Italian Cabinet held a prolonged meeting on Sunday to
consider the dangers of the situation.
ATHENS, Feb. 7.
Bulgarian troops nro reported to have
crossed the Greek frontier nnd driven back
the French forces in tho flrBt clash of the
campaign against Salonica.
Advices received from Salonica today
slate that only advanco guards were en
caged In the action, but reports received
by the Government Indicate that at least
three divisions took part.
LONDON', Feb. 7.
Bulgarian and Turkish troops are
moving toward the Rumanian border to
meet tho concentration of Rumanian
troops against the Bulgarian frontier, ac
cording to Milan dispatches received hero
today.
From another source came tho report
that the Central Powers have demanded
the partial demobilization of tho Ruma
nian army and a pledge of benevolent
neutrality toward the Austro-Gcrmans
and Bulgars. These demands It was
stated, have been Ignored by tho
Rumanian Government.
The I.ondon papers printed long dis
patches today dealing with tho Rumanian
tttuatlon, and 'corroborating- exclusive
Rome dispatches on Saturday that Ru
manian activities lead to thn belief that
tin. Rumanians may soon enter tho war
trlth ihe Allies.
The Milan correspondent of tho Chron
icle reported that the Central Powers had
protested to Rumania against tho salo of
'10,000 carloads of grain to tho Allies.
The Rumanian Government replied that
Itvas necessary to safeguard Rumania's
Interests by all possible steps.
Austria Is reported further to have pro
tested against tho nomination to tho
Rumanian Parliament of two candidates
pledged to wage a campaign for tho ac
quisition by Rumania of the. Hungarian
Continued on rage l'oar. Column One
TWINING SEES SMITH
New Transit Director and
Discuss Plans
Mayor
Details of the transit program of the
new administration wero discussed today
at a conference between Mayor Smith and
William B. Twining, recently appointed
director of transit.
It was Director Twlnlng's tlrst visit to
Mayor Smith's offlco since his appoint
ment. .Following: tho conference. Director
Twining said:
"Mayor Smith was very busy, so wo
were ablo to go Into only a few of the
details, xi am unable to stato what these
details were, as I will not bo officially
director of transit until February 15, when
I will be sworn Into office. I expect to
mto another conferenco with Mayor
Smith this afternoon,
i "I plan to spend the time, between now
M February 15 winding up my private
, Witness. 1 shall leave the city tomorrow
w a, few days, unless the conference
"la afternoon brings forth developments
Jjpleh will ncccssltato my remaining In
'Philadelphia."
; THE WEATHER
l Human nature Is primarily ungrateful.
i your woman actually had tho nerve
M complain today of the weather-It had
mm" mean anl uncertaln 'or a week, she
fr"1' She forgot completely the two or
e ,Prfect days of autumnal clarity
' trS or Let OI1 bad day coma along
, Raa al past favnrn nf ihft nlmnmhorn
, 5f.li.prmptly forgotten. Wherefore we
weather as we do, studied It, com
2h i? w,th " sat un at lts bedside nights,
i utet . ""re charitably Inclined to-
t !. J "e can Bay wlth honesty, as the
Lit i. ,? close Mend and physician, that
" . ;L ?" nicely, that the reports that
i i'r.f'tlon is Incurable are grossly ex.
I i?rrtea' and that we can shortly expect
I ",?? recover rapidly,
in i patient preparlns a "Pns tonlo for
FORECAST
'.- For Philadelphia and vicinity
irff ?oWer knight and Tuesday,
ZSii j ,," wave, rne temperature
"W fall to 2n Aanr.oa ... V,inaJn.,
tnornmg. Strong westerly winds.
for details, see page 17,
LOST AHTJ FOUND
1 fcovuid wi.iVa'e? .T toleji. Knsllsh beagle
WSHt .JS11!?. Vicinity of 38th and Media;
IS'Wr.niornlnK. Liberal reward for return of
to l'D(rm,?r.V, ,he Dim ' J"ng. lUturn
fcSi!pBnuii. id aim fcltJU. ru-lmant 410:1.
UttiJnd,i,n,11i,t:b?,a t wh Parl and
torVrrt,T,.ln Pink. ch4mol bag. about Jan.
ry it pi..i :..rrr'B-rw:.
ad r.;..i3."" "S" "
I receive reward.
iloacmont.
vu.M'fta1 gr,l 'Mt " automobile, be
ttrklt f ,ni Powellou ave. to -15th ani
r i.1
SjSliTmor. h,. w If returned to 4SU
tUtnori
1 ave
Llb.nl ........ --r-" -7rr :
HP, "a nra& and ijlamond rln lost
MtUrdaV nuirfn. d fill t -..,.....? r!ZV
.Kt-i .....- -----T '?, V"-
m.'HI"- "'. ." 9 trouey line, roorn-
yJSr! Jiward 130 North Ktb.
marked
Ei?.KO-
E4!
Ift
EJ T
" U.t m,4 Founa Ada eui Faie
1
GREEK LINE;
FORCE BACK;
NEAR DURAZZO
Salonica Base.
KAISER LEADS
BIG OFFENSIVE
ON WEST LIE
German Veterans From
Russia Replace Reserves
Holding First Lines
AVIATORS BRING NEWS
PARIS, Feb. 7.
Emperor William's presence on tho
western front, reported in dispatches from
various points today, is believed at tho
French AVnr Ofllco to Indicate that tho
long-expected German offensive in tho
western theatre Is nbout to be launched.
Increased nctlvlty of the German nrtil
lery and aeroplanes, tho arrival of hun
dreds of now guns from the Krupp fac
tories and shifting of many German regi
ments along tho front point to Important
developments In the near future, accord
ing to ofllcers who have Just come from
Lorraine, Champagne and the Artols dis
trict. Landsturm regiments which had been
holding the German trenches for many
months havo been replaced by veterans of
tho Balkan and Russian campaigns.
French aviators report that behind tho
Geman front extending from tho North
Sea to Switzerland extensivo troop move
ments are In progress.
Zeppelins, such as took part" In the
latest raid on England and which are
of nn enormous new type, much larger
than nny over before seen, are expected
to play an important part in tho new
offensive.
The Matin In nn article today gives tho
specifications of the new super-Zeppelins.
These ncriul monsters have a volume of
32.000 cubic metres each, nnd instead of
being cigar shaped have the form of a
huge ilsh. The Zeppelins aro driven by
eight :00-horsepowcr motors and are ca
pable of a speed of 73 miles an hour, Tho
ordinary speed of the blg balloons la 63
miles nn hour.
The airships aro equipped with three
propellors each and ure covered with a
Continued on rage Fonr, Column Three
Harbor Inspector Dies Suddenly
WILMINGTON. Del., Feb. 7, William
J. Richards, 70 years old, an Inspector on
Government harbor work here, died sud
denly today, presumably of heart disease,
while at work. He was widely known, hav
ing been a Delaware veteran of the Civil
War and a member of the Grand Army.
He formerly lived In Harrington. Del.
IBULGARIATTACCANO ,
LA BASE DI SAL0NICC0
Avamposti Francesi Costretti a
Ripiegare Soldati Greci
'Chiamati alle Armi
Dlspaccl da Atene dlcono che II re Cos
tantlno ha flrmato un'decreto col quale
sono chiamati alle arml soldati ereel delle
classl dal 1832 al 1314, circa M.000 uomlnl
In tutto, che vlvono all'estero, Sono es
clusi pero' quelll che si trovano In Rus
sla, Turchia, Rumania e Bulgaria.
Questo provvedlmento, che vlene alle
calcagna della notiila che si c' avuto
II primo scontro In terrltorlo greco tra
forze bulgare a degll alelati. e" molto com
mentate I bulgar! hanno passato la
frontlera greca ed hanno attaccato gti
avamposti degll alleatl aprendo casl pare.
1'attesa offenslva contro la base dl Salon
Icco. Mentre notlxle da Salonlcco dlcono
che soltanto le avanguardle bulgare Bono
state-Impegnate la questo primo combat
timento, altre lnformaxlonl giunte al gov
erno greco affermano Invece che aU'azlone
parteclparono almeno tre dlvlstont Le
forze francesi, cha furono quelle atUccate
dal bulgarl. dovettero ripiegare. SI tratta
soltanto dl avamposti pero."
II comunlcato ufnclala Italians annuncla
che non vl e' nulla dl nuovo sulla fronte
Italians, ad ecceilone dl azlont dl artl
gllerla. i
teggere in a paglna w unimo a pm
dttagllate notlzle nulla guerra.
italiaao.)
in
Penrose Announces Fight
Over the State Ticket
"There will be a contest for the
State ticket," snid Senntor Pen
rose, in Washington, today, when
asked to comment upon the an
nouncement of Speaker Ambler for
Auditor General. He refused to
amplify on this statement, but in
dicated that the contest for Audi
tor General would probably Wj be
tween State Senator Snyder nnd
Ambler.
PENROSE WAGES
WAR TO KNIFE ON
CONTRACTOR FOES
t
Even McNichol Among
Those "to Be Extermi
nated" With Vares
DEMANDS AMBLER SCALP
Senator Penrose Is preparing to wage
n light ngalnst the domination of the
Vares In Stato politics. Within the next
fcjv days the plans for "a wnr of ex
termination" of contractor lenders, which
will Include McN'Ichol as well as the
Vares and will attack Mayor Smith and
may reach In its scope Governor Urum
baugh, will be launched. In his battle
Senator Penrose will enlist the nld of the
independents nnd the Progressives who
left the party four years ugo.
As outlined today in Washington, the
contest will turn not only on the State
ticket, but district delegates and delo-gates-at-largo
unless tho Varc-Hrum-baugh-Smlth
faction agrees to n chnngo
in tho slate nnnounccd by Mayo- Smith
for dclegatcs-at-large.
Senntor-Penrose, It was declared In
Washington, Is determined to risk his
future on this battle as ho did In tho
Mayoralty contest, when ho opposed
Representative William S. Vara It will
be one of the bitterest political battles
Pennsylvania has had for many enrs
unless tho friends of both sides force a
compromise. Tho only compromise that
will be accepted by Senator Penrose Is
the withdrawal of Speaker Ambler for
Auditor General and the slating of 13. A.
Rabcock, of Pittsburgh, for ono of tho
dclegatcs-at-large.
AMBLER OPENS HEADQUARTERS.
Speaker Ambler, In spite of tho open
wnr of tho Penrose forces, professed to
hold the belief that he would eventually
be tho harmdny candidate of all factions.
Ho also seemed to consider as unim
portant tho declaration of State Senator
Snyder that ho would bo a candidate for
tho Republican nomination for Auditor
General. Speaker Ambler opened headquarters In
the Harrison Building, 15th nnd Market
streets, today. Ho said ho had not yet
planned. tho details of his .campaign.
All of tho business elements in tho
Stnto, as well as tho Roosovelt Repub
licans, will be brought together If pos
slhlo by Senator Penrose, to make nn
assault upon the combined forces of
Smith, Hrumbaugh and the Vares. An
alllanco has been made by which tho
Penrose men expect to brine; to their
sldo more Roosevelt followers than can
bo commanded by tho Vnro faction.
The crux of tho situation Is this very
pivotal vote. Tho sldo which obtains tho
greatest bulk of the Roosevelt voters will
win. It Is understood that the Inilk of
the Roosevelt followers In Philadelphia '
nro for Penrose, while City Commissioner ,
Georgo K. Holmes Is working In tho In- j
tercst of the Vares with tho Washington I
party, and Fllnn Is aiding him In Pitts
burgh. Developments are expected within a
very short tlmo which will clearly Indi
cate the cntlro program of Penrose and
the Vnro faction. In the meantime) Ro
puhllcnn Congressmen seeking re-election
say. in Washington, that they are afraid
to take sides.
AMHI.ER MAKbS STATEMENT.
Speaker Ambler had this to say of tho
situation today:
"I hope to havo tho support of all fac
tions. I am a candidate on my record in
the Legislature and ns an active worker
for tho Republican party."
Senator Penrose spent nil of last week
In an effort to get both him and Snyder
out of the race, said tho Speaker. The
fact that Ambler announced his candidacy
after Penrose's efforts for harmony shows
that the Vares and Governor Hrumbaugh,
who aro supporting Ambler's candidacy,
although neither haH publicly declared for
him as yet. Is confident of defeating tho
Penrose forces In a State-wide fight. The
announcement of Aihbler's candidacy was
a direct blow at Penrose and placed the
Penrose forces on the defensive. .
Tho Speaker was asked today If he ex
pected Penrose's support.
"Senator Penrose has not promised his
support to any one, as yet," he answered.
"Mayor Smith, however, has declared for
Continued on I'aje Hit, Column Four
DICKENS' MEMORY
HONORED ON BIRTHDAY
Philadelphia Joins in World
wide Observance Fellow
ship Dines Tonight
This Is the anniversary of the birth
of
Charles Dickens, wherever there are
men and women who understand Kngllsh
throughout Tho world, whether In Mel
bourne, or Chicago, or Qape Town, or
Honolulu; there is the memory of Dickens
revived today, if one can speak of reviv
ing what has never lost vigor. Wherever
there are Dickens Fellowships there will
be banquets and speeches.
It's a pity It's not Christmas Eve.
Then Marley's ghost would rattle its
chains tonight again and frighten us out
of our wits, and old Scrooge get convert
ed and delight the children; for It is only
on Christmas Kve that such things can
happen Just that way. But many a Mr.
Pickwick will speechify tonight, and be
Just as funny as the original, especially
If he remembers the, quotations accu
rately. The statue of Dickens and Uttle Nell,
In Clark Park, West Philadelphia, was
Visited this morning by lovers of Dickens
and an ivy wreath was placed upon
the pedestal. Tonight the Dickens Fel
lowship of this city will dine at the Hotel
Walton. Tho president of the Fellowship,
Judgo, John M. Patterson, will preside.
The speakers will be Franklin Spencer
. monds, the Rev. A- Pohlman. Mrs. J.
Owen Phillips and Harry Phillip;, one of
London.
PHILADELPHIA, MONDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1J)1.
TUMULT IN HOUSE
OVER FIRST BILL
FOR DEFENSE
Speaker Clark Demands
War Craft Equaling Eng
land's and Germany's Best
PRODS 'SLOW-POKY' WAYS
WASHINGTON. Keb. 7.-A sreno of
wild confusion on tho Moor of the House,
precipitated by tho first of tho Adminis
tration's preparedness bills, cnlled up for
ncllon today, brought Champ (.'lark out
of tho Speaker's chair seeking military
Information. In a noisy hubbub, with
half a dozen members shrieking shrill
questions, tho Speaker demanded that
tho House Naval Affairs Committee ex
plain: "Why the United States cannot build
battleships ns fast as England."
"Why tho biggest available guns are
not put on our battleships."
Tho Speaker stood In the centre of tho
floor, with a clamorous crowd about him,
and put his questions In a voice that rose
abovo tho tumult. Representative Hut
ler, of Pennsjlvanla, a Republican mem
ber of the romniittec, sought to reply, but
failed to satisfy the Speaker.
"Why can't wr build battleships as fast
ns England t;an?" demanded tho Speaker.
"We can," replied Representative Hut
ler. "If wo put up tho money."
"Rut wo hae put up the money, nnd
they tell us England Is turning out ships
In about half the time It takes us to do
It."
"If this House will appropriate tho
money I bcllcvo uo can build "2 battle
ships In two years."
"What would they cost?" asked tho
Speaker.
Representative llutler raid that this
question would havo to bo answered by
experts,
CLARK FOR HIGC13ST RATTLES II I PS.
"What I want to know," demanded tho
Speaker vigorously, as half a dozen mem
bers demanded recognition and Minuted
questions at Hutler and Clark, "is: Can
we find any way to expedite tho slow-
Continued on I'ugc Two, Column Two
DICKENS' BIRTHDAY REMEMBERED
JPVsKiiittiiii' HlSiliiSliiif sBbPbkIS
Members of the Dickens Fellowship today placed n wreath on tho
statuo of Dickens and "Little Noll," in Clark Park, West Phila
delphia. Left to right are Miss Claire Mulhollaml, Mrs. J. K.
Thompson (with wreath), Mrs. A. D. Sayre, Charles Sesslcr and
J. K. Thompson.
BASEBALL WAR
ENDS AS LANDIS
DISMISSES SUIT
Fight Against National Com
mission by Federal League by
Mutual Consent Dropped
in Chicago
BALTIMORE ASKS AWARD
CHICAGO. Feb. 7, The baseball war
reached Its end In the Federal Court here
today, when Judge Landis dismissed with
out prejudice tho suit of tho Federal
League against organized baseball.
All parties to tho suit agreed that tho
action bo dismissed.
Seward Janney, attorney for the Fed
eral League club of Baltimore, appeared
before Judge Landis and entered that
club's consent to the dismissal of the suit
"without prejudice." Janney, however,
reserved the right to institute new pro
ceedings at any time, seating forth Its
claims, but he made it plain to tho court
that whatever action the Baltimore club
takes will not prejudice the interests of
any of the other clubs of the league.
Janney made a statement to the court,
In which he said that Garry Herrmann,
chairman of the National Commission,
had promised the Baltlmoro club ample
remuneration far any damage It mignt
suffer by reason of having been left out
of the considerations when the peace act
was Bigned. The attorney Bta(ed that
unless that remuneration was forthcom
ing a new suit would bo Instituted by the
Baltimore club, with all the other Federal
League officials and those of organized
baseball clubs as defendants. Janney
said he did not desire to block the con
clusion of the peace agreement, but he in
sisted that his client be heard later re
garding its rights.
In dismissing tho suit Judge Landis,
himself an ardent fan, declared he had
long postponed a decision because he felt
a ruling would be prejudicial to the best
interests of baseball.
"Preliminary demands of the Federals
for an Injunction against organized base
ball were presented to this court a little
over a year ago." Landis said. ''The
whole structure of basball was thrown
Into litigation. Not only the interests of
fans, but the interests of organized base
ball and of the outlaws I am not calling
Cootlsucd on rage fifteen, Column Four
MIDVALE BUYS
CAMBRIA STEEL;
$81 PER SHARE
Big Industrial Deal In
volves Expenditure of
Many Millions
TO BE A SUBSIDIARY
The Mldvale Steel nnd Ordnance Com
pany today bought the rntitrnlllng In
terest In the Cambria Steel Company, The
price paid was JSt n share In cash. The
number of shares Involved In tho original
purchases was not inmlo public.
Tim deal was consummated nn Saturday
evening. It Is understood that thoso who
put It through were Edward T. Stotes
bury, William II. Donncr and William E.
Corey, for the Mldvale Company.
Tho larger stockholders of the Cambria
Steel Company h.no nlrendy accepted the
offer made by Mldvale. It Is understood
that J. Lenoard Rcploglc. who has been
ono of the foremost movers In effecting a
new steel combination to take in the
Cambria, Lackawanna Steel Company and
the Youngstown Slice! nnd Tube Company,
will turn In his stock nt tho sale price of
R1.
Korcmost Hnunricra back of the big
deal were nnvlous to have It understood
by all of the stockholders of the Cam
bria Steel Company th.it tho offer made
by Mldvale was open to nil shareholders,
and every one had an opportunity of get
ting out at Sl If he so desired. Tile
capital stock of the Cambria Steel Com
pany Is &0,OG.000, of which ?45,O0O,O0O Is
outstanding. The par value of the stock
Is f.VI a share, and with the outstanding
stock, which iimntints to 000,000 shnres,
this would make the outlay of the Mld
vale Steel and Ordnance Company, If all
of the stock Is turned In at (SI a share,
exactly J72.M0.000.
It is not rcgnrdrd ns likely that all
of the stockholders will turn in their
stock, preferring to go in with the new
management.
While It could not be learned dollnltely
when the payment for the Cambria stock
by Mldvale would bo made, it was said
In usually ucll-luformcd circles that II
would be madi by Kcbrunry 2.".
Tho financial district did not know def-
Continued on Pace Ktvrn, Column l'le
WESTPHHADELPHIANS
WIN BATTLE AGAINST
TWO SALOON LICENSES
Transfers to Sixtieth and Lans
downo Avenue and Fifty-sec
ond and Larchwood
Refused
GRANT WINKLER'S PLEA
Karnestness with which rrsldents of
West Philadelphia remonstrated against
two petitions for tho transfer of saloon
licences had Its effect, and Judges Staake
and Patterson havo refused to place sa
loons at COlh street and Lansdowno ave
nue and 52d street and Larchwood ave
nue. Last Thursday many residents In the
neighborhood of COth street and I-ann-downe
avenue protested In the License
Court agalnbt the application of James
J. Hughes, who had petitioned tho Court
to grant him the retail license now held
by Thomas J. Lynch at 3017 Market
street. It was Hughes' intention, after
receiving the Lynch license, to have It
transferred to Lansdowno avenue. The
remonstrants told tho Court that nine
applications for tho corner of 60th street
nnd Lansdowne avenue had been "turned
down "
At the same session of the court. Pat
rick J. Malone's application to have his
license shifted from 102-01 North 3d street
to the Northwest corner EZd street and
Continued on l'aje Ml, Column Two
FIVE AIiLEflED SAFE BLOWERS
HELD FOR TRIAL FEBRUARY 16
Plead Not Guilty and Await Trial in
U, S. Court
TRENTON, N. J- Feb. T.-PIeas of not
guilty wero entered in United States Court
here today by Frank Watson, Charles
Collins, John Mayo. Frank Stebbins and
Henry B. Hamilton, who, it Is alleged,
were caught blowing open the safe in the
postoltlce at Pennsgrove about a month
ago. The men wero biought to this city
from the Camden County Jail in irons.
After entering thaJr pleas the men were
taken to the Mercer County Jail, to pa
held there until February 1$. when they
will be .hi lUncil for tilal
CormtoiiT, 1010, at tub rcatto Lamti CouriNt.
EXPLOSION AT DU PONT
PLANT AT TACOMA WASH.
TACOMA, Wash., Feb. 7. A
tho du Pont powder plant llenf
within a radius of several miles.
loss of Hfci
HOUSE VOTES TO ENLARGE NAVY YARDS
WASHINGTON, Feb.' 7.-Aftev three hours of tumultous debtxtj
iu the House on preparedness, the first .s'.clrinlsh this session, a res
olution wo pnscd appropriating GOO,000 to incrcno battleship build
ing facilltic at the New York and Maio Islnud Navy Yards.
SCRANTON THIEVING BANKER GETS G YEARS
SCRANTON'. Ph., 1'eb. 7. Adolf Hlau, formerly a private banker, who
absconded last June, later being arrested In Chuttanuog.i, Tcnn.. entered a,
plea of Riillty in three cases of embezzlement today. Ho was sentenced by
.ludgo Edwards to six years In the penitentiary. In addition ho is to pay
lines totaling $US2. Ulau's bank hail more than IL',000 depositors, with deposits
totaling $170,000. Tho creditors will realize about 10 cents on tho dollar.
BRITAIN WAITS U. S. DECISION IN Al'PAM CASE
LONDON, Feb. 7, It w.-us learned from ulllclal sources today that no
further advices, have reached the Hritlsh Foreign Olllco from Washington
relative to the Appnm cn.se. It l-i expected no further word will bo received
from the I'nltcd States (lovernmetit until the status of tho Appnm Is deter
mined by the American State Department.
GREEK KING CALLS 'JO.OOO MEN TO COLORS
ATHENS, Fob. 7. -KinK Ci.usti.ntlne today signed u dci ree calling to tho
colors the members of all clas.-cs from 1S92 to 1011, Inclusive, who nro living
abroad, with the exception of those who nro living In Russia, Turkey, Bul
garia and Rumania.
W'ASHINUTON, Feb. ".--The decree culling to the colors the classes of
1802 to 1014 will affect but few Greeks In this country, it was Mated today
at Hie Greek Legation. .Most of those subject to call, It was explained, havo
already gone back. ,
STORM APPROACHING ATLANTIC COAST
Storm warnings have been posted at all points along the Atlantic coast
from tho Delaware Breakwater to Portland, Mo., by tho Federal authorities.
The storm Is now centred over the valley of the St. Lawrence 'River and Is
approaching from the northwest. It is predicted that tho disturbance will
become more violent ns it approaches tho coast. Tho temperature will drop
to IS degrees tonight.
LEPROSY A HEREDITARY DISEASE, U. S. EXPERTS SAY
WASHINGTON, Keb, 7. Leprosy has been dollnltely proved a hereditary
disease by the United States Public Health Service. Tho discovery upsqts
theories heretoforo held In tho medical world. Tho Public Health Service has
been making special observations at tho famous leper colony on tho island
of Molokai. in the South Paeltlc. Tho discovery, Just reported to Washington
from tho .Molokai station, .la expected to work a revolution In thu handling
'of lepers.
ENGINE PLUNGES INTO RIVER; TWO DIE
VINCJ3NNI-3S, 1ml.. Feb. 7. Two trainmen were killed when the locomo
tive and tender of a Itlg Four jiiushenger train running between Vincennes
and St. Franclsville, 111., plunged Into the Wabasli River at C o'clock this
morning. Tho train was slowly opprouclilng the St. Franclsvlllo bridge over
I a COO-yard fill when tho (III, which
cavcu in. rno engineer ami nreman
in tho coaches.
BRIDAL COUPLE PERISH IN FIRE AT PORTLAND, ME.
PORTLAND, Me., Feb. 7. Mr. and Mrs. F.rncst A. Clove, a bridal couple,
were burned to death today in a lire in a three-story lodging house. Mrs.
Govo lost her life In an attempt to suvo her husband. Tho flro cut off the
only stairway from the second lloor, where 14 persons were asleep. Twelve
men and women were rescued by ladders.
SCOTTI PASSES PNEUMONIA CRISIS
N13W YORK, Feb. 7. Antonio Scott!, tho grand opera singer, who has
been seriously ill with pneumonia here, passed the crisis today and is
expected to recover. Dr. J. D. Alexander, who attended tho baritone durtns
tho night, said that Kcottl had recovered consciousness and his condition
snowod great Improvement.
BAVARIAN PRINCE TO HEAD SUEZ DRIVE
GKNI-3VA, Switzerland, Feb. 7. Prince Leopold of Bavaria, who has studied
Ugypt thoroughly, will bo appointed to command a German-Turkish army in
nn attack on tho Suez Canal, according to tho Uayerlscho Hurler, of Munich.
Tho newspaper says tho expedition is expected to g$t under way in tho spring;
and that It will bo commanded by German olllcers, who aro making prepara
tion at Constantinople.
GREY REJECTS PACT TO AID POLISH RELIEF
LONDON, Feb. 7. Despite assurances of Germany that Imported supplies
for the Polish destitute would be used for their relief exclusively, Sir Edward
Grey has refused to enter into such un agreement. This fact was brought out
when letters which passed between Chairman Hoover, of tho Belgian Belief
Commission, and Sir Kdward were made public. In his letter to Sir Edward,
under date of December 22, Chairman Hoover calls attention to the pitiable
conditions which exist In Poland. In his reply, the Foreign Minister says the
scheme is Impracticable unless Germany and Austria prohibit food exports from
Russian Poland.
SWEDISH SOCIALISTS LAUNCH PEACE MOVEMENT
STOCKHOLM, Feb. 7. A new world peace movement has Just been
launched here. Inspired by the Ford expedition. Socialists in the Swedish
Parliament are interpolating the Government as to whether it is possible to
arrange a peace conference of neutral nations for the purpose of founding a
permanent court of international arbitration.
ENGLISH QUAKERS TO CLAIM MILITARY EXEMPTION
LONDON, Feb. 7. Virtually All the members of the Society of Friends
(Quakers) have given notice that they will seek exemption from compulsory
military service under the clause covering "conscientious objectors." Slnc4
the bill was introduced in Parliament the Friends have held numerous anti
conscription meetings, some of which were broken up by soldiers. All tho
meetings were very stormy, and at some of them rioting was prevented by
tho vigorous action of the police. The military service bill becomes effective
Thursday.
SWISS WARNED OF PLOTS AGAINST ARMS PLANTS
PARIS, Feb. 7. A number of Swiss factories which havo been supplying
the Entente Allies with munitions have been threatened with destruction, says
the Journal du Jura. Notice of such Intention has been given In letters received
by officials of the plants.
40 GERMAN MINES BLOWN UP, SAY RUSSIANS
LONDON, Feb. 7. In northwest Russia there have been aerial- raids 9
both the Germans and Russians. In Gallela and Bukowlna thgre haVo been
Infantry and grenade attacks. At one point along the line where General
Ivanoff is In command tho Russians found a system of Teuton mlnws, and,
says the Fetrograd war official, connected these mlnw by wlro with their
own trenches and exploded 4a German mines. In the Caucasus tho Turkish
attempts at as offense have been repulsed, with heavy loasca.-
PRICE ONE CENT
terrific explosion occurred 'today in
hero. Houses were partly wrecked
It is believed there was some losi
'has been undermined by flood water,
wero Killed. Many traveling men wero
n
l
