THE ABTZQNA REPUBLIC.
AN INDtrNDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
Th Arizona
Republican,
Full
Leased Wire
A. P. Report
The Sun
Always Shine
Fineit
Winter CM mete
in the World
TWENTY-SIXTH YEAR
8 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, MONDAY MORNING, FEBRUARY 7, 1916
8 PAGES
TOL. XXVI, NO. 264
i
I
SIP SUNK
IN GATTEEAT
( 1openhagcn N c w s p a p e r
Tells of Destruction of
Vessel and Wireless ('alls
for Help He
Struck Mine
leve
Ship
ACTIVITY OX
MANY FRONTS
British are Pressing Ger
mails Hard in Kamerun'
Region and Force Troops
to Seek Asylum in Span
ish Guinea.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
The British are pressing the Ger
mans hard in -Kamerun region of Ger
man West Equatorial Africa. A Span
ish official communication says that
900 Germans and 14,000 of their Colo
nial troops have crossed the southwest
border and sought asylum in Spanish
Guinea, where they were isarmed and
interned.
In northwest Russia there have been
arerial raids by both the Germans and
Russians and in Galicia and Bukowina
small infantry and grenade attacks.
At one point along the line where the !
1 I
Russian general Ivanoff is in command says the Overseas News Agency, fre
the Russians found-a system of Teuton j ,Uentiy have been mistaken in conn
mines, and having wired it, detonated j trjes at war with Germany for anti
the mines. German propaganda, today delivered
The British and French in Belgium , before a large audience a speech
have shelled with destructive effect ai,out the war.
uerman trenenes at Boesinghe and the
Mrm 7 S"nS,hhaVe ,slIe;c1d a
e. man battery to the east of l!oes- I
Ji'B'ie.
1 r-i.... . . .i. i , 1
report the wrecking of German trenches I
on the plateau of Naverln and the
blowing up of munitions depots. In
addition Paris records the demolition
of aspjhyxiating gas reservoirs, the
escaping gas waves from which were
blown back on the German lines At.
tempts by the British to make advances
southwest of Nenvills .-inrl a.,th ,.f i...
Bassee Canal were repulseL,aecording
to lierlin.
Petrograd says the Russians continue
to harrass the Turks over the ehtu
Caucarsus region and that all attempts
by the Turks at an offensive have been
repulsed with heavy losses to the Ot
tomans. In Mesopotamia, near Felahie, small
artillery and infantry engagements
have been going on between the Turks :
and the British. At Kut-El-Amara. -
where the British are besieged by the
i urks, there is no change in the situa
tion.
German Warship Sunk
COPENHAGEN, (viu London) Feb.
A large German warship has been I
sunk in the Gattegat between the isl- !
mid of Anholt and the Danish coast.
according to the newspaper Helsinger
Avis.
Tne paper says it it supposed the
vessel struck a mine Wireless r-.iw
for help were heard, but they ceased
after a time. i
The Cattegat is a body of water ly-
ing between Denmark and Sweden
tbrough which vessels from the Baltic
must pass to reach the Atlantic ocean.
The island of Anholt lies in the center
of the Cattegat.
Germans Plan New Move
LONDON, Feb. 7. There appears to
be a growing belief, both in- Parisand
Imdon, that the Germans are prepar
ing to launch some important military
movement on the western front. For
nearly a fortnight increasing German
activity has been reported along this
line.
The Times says today that the pres
sure of events may force the German
staff to stake much to preserve confi
dence at home and to stiffen the troops
by giving them an illusion of victory
by a movement and the possible occu
pation of a few advanced line trenches.
"There have been several recent in
dications after the enemy's artillery
firing at various points," says the
Times, "that it was intended to use
German infantry to complete some
scheme or other, hut for reasons un
known they deferred their visit to c.ir
lines."
A dispatch to neuter's Telegram
company from Saloniki says:
"There was a skirmish Sunday be
tween French and Bulgarian mounted
(Continued on Page Five.)
y
n
is
Republican A. P. Leased Wire to an end would be on a larger scale
CHICAGO, Feb. 6.-Henry Ford, the ?an the Oscar II expedition and that
his recruits would be personalities,
Detroit manufacturer who sent a peace ratler than personages."
ship to Europe, has a new peace plan.'i "The new venture is along the same
This much he said to the reporters here lines as the first one," said Mr. Ford,
today before leaving for Detroit. "but on a larger scale. This shall in-
'l Would like to tell you about the elude some of the people I had on the
new plan, but I must wait until niy Oscar II. The people across the water
party has returned from Europe," said were astonished when they saw the
Mr. Ford. He said he was perfectly personnel of that party. They had ex
satisfied with the results of the peace pected to see a lot f 'high brows' and
crusade abroad. were surprised to find that they were
Mr. Ford came here to attenda ban- lust every day people. ' They would
ltiet given last night by the Michigan , hardly believe me when I told them I
society of Chicago, lie said that his could have brought thousands more of
new t'f'ort to bring the strife in Europe the same," - ,
SEVENTEEN ARE DEAD .
FROM FLOOD WHICH HAS
ENGULFED MANY TOWNS::.:;-
-
i
CONSUL IMPERILLED
BY TWO BOMBS
MILWAUKEE. I-'eh. 6. Armino
I Conte, Italian consular agent for I
I Milwaukee, was im'rilled ly an
exploding bomb early tod;y at his
door in a fashionable east side '
i apartment building. He escaped
1 unhurt. A second bomb, the fuse
of which Jiad evidently been ex-
tinguished after being lighted, was j
found near an entrance on the
I ground floor. Signor Conte would I
! neither affirm nor deny that he
' bad received threats. The bomb
placed at his door did but slight
! damage.
TO CONTINUE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BERLIN, Feb. B. (By wireless to
Sayville) Maximilian Harden, editor
(,f Dje
Zukunft, whose utterances,
T Herr Har. j
den as saving that the continuation!
f the wag cauged v tnrpe de.
..... ... r- :.. i
! lusions held by Germany's
1USIOIIS Iiem ! vjeiiuai! s t-iiimt-n.
The, rirwf rlliicinn thp yrifnkr sain t
The first delusion, the speaker said, I
was that Germany had for years pre
pared for war and that the entente
powers therefore, had only to wait
unm tllls inaiCil was overcome, -is
'a m:itter of fct' he saU1' tne Germans
won victories because they were able
a(ia themselves to the changed
circu mstances.
The second delusion of the entente
powers. Herr Harden said, was tnai
Germany approached exhaustion and1
in thiQ nntir,n he declared:
1 1
u .
r i i m i n b i n a r w-
WLUSIMt
CAUSING Mil
"It is the most reckless crime of I rising. As fast as possible the resi
our enemies to dare to say that Ger- j dents were conveyed to dry land in
many, who holds them by the throat, j motor boats.
is nearing her own annihilation." j Little is known of conditions in the
The third delusion. Herr Harden rural districts of the flooded area,
said, was contained in the stories al- but there seems little doubt that many
(Continued on Fage Three
Lights Out, Gotham Worried
Republican A. P. Leased Wire trances and exits and searc h all sus
NEW YORK. Feb. 6. Train service picious persons carrying suit cases or
was halted in the subway twice w ithin j
twenty
minutes tonight and New ,
York s underground railway system'
uas in darkness each time for several ;
minutes as the result of a short circuit ,
in a cable box. Thousands of passen-
gers, with rumors of bomb plots fresh j
in their minds, became alarmed, but
the lights were, off only a few minutes
'and the guards experienced little dif-
f iculty in preserving order.
The accident was not unusual, but it
closely followed a general police order j
for patrolmen to guard subway en- 1
BELIEVE VILLA IS SORROUHDED
IN THE SANTA CLARA DISTRICT
Republican A. P. Leased Wire aides from western and central Chi
EL PASO, Feu. 6. General Francis- buahiia coincided in locating Villa in
c. Villa was at the Rio Tinta Mining the Santa Clara rinch district,
company property at Tenezas, 25 miles I He stated that the inhabitants of the
,.wh ; ..hihnahna ritv Saturday. ac-! Guerrero district no longer feared the
... . . . wrath of Villa and his bands and were
cord ng to a dispatch today to mining . . .....
' '.! aiding the government troops with m-
men hre. Previous reports had stated formfltion of villa's movements,
that Villa, with a small band of fol- Carranza cavalry troops hal reached
lowers was in the vicinity of Bosque the Guerrero distiict, Gavira said, and
Bonito. he believed the pursuit of Villa would
A party of milling men arrived here , proceed more rapidly. AVhile. it was
today by automobile from the capitol possible that his commanders in west
and reported that the district from enr chihuahua, were misinformed and
Chihuahua City to Juarez is infested villa was moving toward the border at
with small bands of bandits. i Bosque Bonito. it was hardly probable.
General Gabriel Gavira, commandant General Gavira said. In any event he
at Juarez, said tonight that military added. Villa could not cross the border
without conflict with the de facto gov
HE
1
HAS NEW PUN FOR PEACE
Rapidly Widening Lake in
Southwestern Arkansas
Formed From W a tors
.Breaking Thrnlio-h T ,iV(ic: i
m , . 'T, J?
Taking Heavy Toll
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LITTLE ROCK, Feb. 6. The rapidly
widening lake in southwestern Arkan
sas, formed by the flood waters bf the 1
Arkansas river pouring through breaks j
in the levees, had engulfed a score of j
towns tonight, leaving several thou-,
sand persons homeless, taking a toll of
seventeen lives and doing damage esti
mate at thousands of dollars.
Still greater damage is feared if the
Mississippi continues to rise. Pre
dicted stages at Arkansas City threaten
a break in the Mississippi levees,
which would precipitate tile greatest
calamity.
All day TOO men who remain in Ar
kansas City toiled in an effort to
strengthen the levees, and tonight
they were hopeful that the town would
be saved. The narrow strip of levee
is the only land in sight there. On
cne side is the great river, swollen
until its surface is fifteen feet above
the levee of the town. On the other
side of the levee is the great flood
lake, nearly forty miles long and
twenty miles wide, from it only tut i
upper stories ot omioings in Aihiin-
sas City1 protrude. At the levee are
three steamboats ready to carry the
plucky fighters to safety should they
lose their battle with the flood. Tele
graph service with the town still is
maintained, and the last word from
there this afternoon was optimistic,
"Wa'll win the fight," flashed the
operator.
The great lake that extends from the
Arkansas river southward with the
Mississippi river levees as its eastern
has engulfed numerous other j
nn
towns. At Lake Village, the flood j plained, according to the police, that
water rose at the rate of a half inch the whole affair was merely a family
en hour today. At Gaines' Xanding, irow an(j that he had intended shoot
four miles north of 1-ake Village, 400jins j.seph Brittot, his brother-in-law,
persons were on the levee tonight jiult that Brown stepped suddenly into
without shelter. the street, and intercepted the charge.
In Clarendon, on the White river' 0
where the levee broke last night,
water today was six feet deep in the
highest portions of the town.
The
river had attained a stage of thirty-
seven feet four inches and was sti
(Continued on Page Two)
bundles. The order was cancelled
later.
v nue a rumor persisted tnai tne e.-
tra police guard was ordered as a pre-
caution against the carrying out ot a
suspected plot to blow up New York's
underground and elevated railways, the
police themselves treated the report
lightly.
In authoritative sources tonight it
i was said the placing of the guards at
the various subway stations and exits
was part of a plan inaugurated by the
police to round up thieves.
ernment troops.
In all 1,000 Carranza soldiers were
engaged in the chase of Villa in CM
huahua state, Gavira said.
Advises Submission
MONTEREY. Nuevo Laredo. Men,
Feb. 6 It is reported there that General
Callxto Contreras, military leader of
the Quinquima Indians of Durango
state, has advised his followers to sub
mit to the de facto government.
General Trevino left here yesterday
for Queretaro to confer with other
leaders of the Mexican government.
Moving Toward Bordert
SAN ANTONIO, Tex., Feb. 6. Gen
eral Francisco Villa continues moving
toward the United States border, ac
cording to military information reach
ing headquarters of the southern de
partment United States army, at Fort
Sam Houston tonight. General Villa
was reported to have been seen late
Saturday in the vicinity of Rio Tinta,
2! miles north of Chihuahua City,
WILSON HOLDS APPAM
BELONGS TO GERMANS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON', Feb. 6. President
Wilson is continuing to hold tte opin-
the British steamship Appam,
nto Hampton Roads by a
German crew, must be considered as a
prize of Germany under the Prussian
American treaty of 1S28. It was stated
tonight that this accords with the view
of the state department.
The president has not had an op
portunity to discuss with Secretary
I ansinB the details of the case and
therefore no final decision has been
reached as to the length of time the
Aopam will be allowed to remain in an
American port. Some officials agree
wj'.h the German contention that under
the Prussian treaty the prize crew can
keep the liner at Newport News until
the end of the war.
.
Lieut. Berg Entertains 1 .
NEWPORT NEWS Va.. Feb. An
informal entertainment for local resi
dents of German birth by Lieutenant
Berg, the German prize commander,
today broke the monotony of ship rou
tine aboard the former British steam
er Appam.
Several members of the German
prize crew of 22 who have been suffer
ing with malaria were reported today
much improved They are being cared
i for aboard ship.
HELD FOUR POLICE
OFFICERS AT BAY
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
OAKLAND, Cal., Feb. f,. Joseph
Furtado, a hnilcrmaker, after shooting
Tr.
an innocent outsider
iw.
stepped from his home late to
day into a charge of shot fired at
Furtado's brother-in-law, stood over
'flrow - s prostrate
body and with
shot gun held four Oakland policemen
at bay for half an hour.
Furtado was disarmed and cap
tured when a fifth policeman came
on the scene, took in the situation
and made a quiet but effective attach
with a club from the rear.
Brown was seriously but not fatally
wounded. At the police station Fur-
t.tl() expressed his aregret and ex-
THINK DOPE RING
FINALLY BROKEN UP
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN JOSE, Cal., Feb. . Cyjnplete
confessions with names and addresses
of persons engaged in drug traffic
from Vancouver to San Diego and
showing with the killing of John B.
Conway,- alias Gray, in San Fran
cisco and the arrest of Jerry Des
mond in Santa Cruz the strongest
ring of drug dispensers on the coast
had been broken up. were obtained
here today . from Mike Nichol and
George Joulin by Deputy Internal
Revenue Collectors A. C. Scott, Wil
liam McCarthy and P. G. Sheehy.
Deputies Scott and McCarthy left late
this afternoon for Sacramento where
they will follow up clues contained in
the confession.
There is said to he several thous
and dollars worth of drugs planted
jno located bv the offi
, ' "
between here and Santa .'farhara
'cers.
BRITISH STEAMER
GOES TO BOTTOM
Republican A. P. leased Wire .
LONDON. Feb. . The British
steamship Balgownie, 1.061 tons gross
has been sunk. The crew, with the
exception of the second officer, was
saved. ,
The Balgownie was 2115 feet long,
.'10 feet beam. 17 feet deep and was
built at Aberdeen in 1SX0.
CHICAGO BANKER
IS OUT OF DANGER
Republican A. P. Leasee Wire
LOS ANGELES, Feb. 6. George M.
Reynolds, the Chicago banker who has
been ill here since last Wednesday
front complications resulting from a
severe attack of grippe, was pro
nounced oul of danger today by at
tending physicians. He spent a com
fortable' night last night, and his
heart action, which caused alarm yes
terday and Friday, was much im
proved today.
VATICAN NOT BUYING
U. S. WAR SECURITIES
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Feb. 6. The Most
Rev. John Bozano, apostolic delegate,
issued a statement tonight denying
reports that the Vatican is investing
in American war munition securities.
The statement also referred to re
ports that the 1915 budget of the
Vatican closed with a deficit of $5,
000.000 and declared that neither the
revenues nor the expenditures reached
such a sum.
TO OPPOSE PROHIBITION i
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN FRANCISCO, Feb. ' 6. The
"Trades Union Liberty League," an
organization of men engaged in the
liquor traffic met here today to dis
cuss plans for opposing the further
spread of prohibition. A resolution
was missed denouncing the policy of
prohibition and urging legislators to
oppose any attempt to put California
!jn the "dry" column.
Among the speakers was John A,
o'Oonnell, secretary of the San
Francisco. Labor Council.
0UTLL00K PROMISING
FOiR EARLY SETTLEMENT
OF LUSITANIA CASE
President Wilson and Sec
retary Lansing Expected
to Confer Today on Latest
Tentative Draft .of Ger
man "Communication
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Feb. 6. President
Wilson and Secretary Lansing are ex
pected to confer tomorrow on the latest
tentative draft of the communication
which the German government hopes
to bring the negotiations over the Lu
silania disaster to a satisfactory ter
mination. Information that the outlook
for an early settlement of the case
again was promising, was received to
night from various diplomatic and of
ficial quarters.
The president has had the tentative
draft before him since Friday night.
In it German officials say, the foreign
office has gone as far as it possibly
can to meet the position of the United
States. From high diplomatic quar
ters tonight came the statement that
Germany believes that she has, with
the exception of making an out and out
disavowal of the Lusitania sinking,
which she considered impossible, con
ceded every desire of the United States
and that the tentative proposal ma
terially strengthens the assurances al
ready given in the negotiations over
the sinking of the steamship Arabic. It
is also claimed that the tentative pro
posal covers all the fundamental issues
involved in the conduct of submarine
warfare in the North Sea.
It is'explained that a direct disavow
ill was given for the sinking of the
Arabic because that act was in viola
tion, of the instructions given the sub
marine commanders. In the case of
the Lusitania, however, the command
er acted in accordance with instruc
tions. The general instruction not to
sink liners without warning was given,
it was disclosed tonight by high au
thority, on the day after the Lusitania
went down. It was said that Germany
withheld announcement of the fact for
strategical naval reasons.
The position of Berlin officials is
said to be that of the act of the com
mander of a submarine can be dis
avowed should be violate, disregard,
or have failed to have received instruc
tions, but that a government cannot
disavow an act which was committed in
accordance with its instructions and
for which it is responsible.
In the latest proposal, there is no at
tempt to deny responsibility for the
sinking of the Lusitania. But Germany
assumes liability for American lives
lost, offers reparation by the payment
f indemnity and assuring the United
States that the killing of Americans
was without intent. The destruction
of the liner was an act of reprisal for
the British blockade under the orders
in council, according to the Germa'n
view, and reprisals should not be ap
plied to neutrals. The tentative com
munication also states that the method
of conducting submarine warfare in
the North Sea has been modified be
cause of friendship for the United
States and because of the fact that
American lives had been lost.
In this last connection, it was said
tonight that it was within the range
of that principle some reference might
be made in the preface of the com-
municat'ion, should it be transmitted
formally to the I nited States, to the
correspondence in the Arabic cage. In
a note to Secretary Lansing on Sep
tember 2. Count von Bernstorff, the
German ambassador, wrote that his
insirueuonh concerning our answer
to your last Lusitania not contain the
passages: miners will not house committee on insular affairs, al
be sunk by our submarines without readv had pending the Jones self -gov -warning
and without regarding the ornment extension bill, which differs in
safety of the lives of non-combatants, mar v r(,spe(.ts from the bill passed by
provided that the liners do not try to ,, Tb nnmmitt. will ...r.'h.
escape or offer resistance."
These instructions have not yet been
made formal in connection with the
Lusitania caso-directly. At the time
of the recepit of the communication,
Secretary Lansing declared that it ap
peared to be "a recognization of the
fundamental principles for which we
have contended."
Official and diplomatic circles are
anxiously awaiting the publication of
a statement concerning the Lusitania
negotiations which Secretary 'Lansing
said ves.terday might be made within
the next two days. The statement, it
was considered, might be forthcoming
at any time after President Wilson and
Secretary Lansing discuss the proposal
Count von Bernstorff, the German
ambassador, expects to be called to the
state department after the conference
between the president and the secre
tary. That the ambassador believes
be may be summoned in the near fu
ture was indicate'l when it became
known that be had cancelled for the
present engTgements out of town.
I US.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, Feb. 6 Extra police
guards were stationed on the Brook
lyn and Manhattan bridges today at
the request of Rear Admiral Usher,
c mmandant of the New York navy
yard, it was announced at Brooklyn
police headquarters, to safeguard' the
passage under the structures of the
United States cruiser Washington,
which arrived at noon from Haiti.
The police said Rear Admiral Usher
6 1
explained to them that he desires the tien waters, will sail from here, tomor
extra guards as a precautionary mens- row for Portsmouth, N. H., where she
lire against the possible dropping of I will be used as a training ship.
-
WHITMAN REITERATES
SEEKS REELECTION
I NEW YORK. Feb. 6. Gover-
nor Whitman reiterated today his
candidacy for the republican nom-
ination for governor. His an-
nouncement was coupled with a j
I denial that he had a greed to i
I seek the nomination for second
place at the republican national j
convention on a ticket to be
I headed by Theodore E. Burton,
William E. Borah or Albert B. j
Cummins.
"I am for Justice Hughes for
president. He would sweep the
country," Mr. Whitman said. i
i I
n n
TO GONSIBER
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Feb 6 Conserva
tive legislation, the Colombian and Nic
arauguan treaties, the government ship
purchase bill, Philippine independence
and the inquiry into the nomination of
Louis D. Brandeis to the supreme court
are the subjects of immediate interest
before congress for the coming week
while completion of the national de
fense program is being awaited.
Water power bills are to be consid
ered in the open senate this week, al
though administration leaders contem
plate devoting much time to debate of
the'long-pending Nicarauguan and Co
lombian treaties.
Beginning A'ednesday, public hear
ings are to be held on the Brandeis
nomination before a senate 'judiciary
sub-committee. Protestants against
confirmation of Mr. Brandeis are to be
heard first, and will have been sum
moned to testify regarding statement?
filed with the committee. These ara
relative to Mr. Brandeis' connection
with the United Shoe Machinery com
pany, the five per cent rate case and
several private litigation cases in
which he was interested as counsel.
In the house tomorrow Speaker
Clarke will request Representative Pad
gett chairman of the naval committee,
to call up the navy department's bill to
increase the number of the midship
men at the U. S. naval academy. Un
der the existing law, 1,169 midshipmen
aVe maintained at the naval academy,
with an average attendance of 900. The
proposed bill, it would increase the
maximum to 1.704.
House and senate military commit-
i tees plan to conclude hearings on army
reorganization during the week. Strong
opposition has developed to the conti
nental army proposal and there are in-
i dications of p. conference soon between
! congressional leaders and executive
j officials to talk over the feasibility of
L dropping; the continental army plan
and substituting an increased standing
army and an enlargement of the na
tional guard plan.
Philippine legislation which hasoccu-
I iP.i the floor in the senate so loner.
-oon will be debated in the house. The
ably meet next Tuesday and determine
whether to report the Jones bill or the
senate measure. The senate bill passed
Frida . x
As soon as the Indian appropriation
bill is passed, sponsors of the immigra
tion bill, with its literacy test and Asi-
(Continued on Page Three)
Republican A. P. Leased Wirel
WASHINGTON. Feb. 6. Efforts to
speed up the work of congress on the
army and navy bills will be continued
this week by President "Wilson. He
will see a large number of members of
CR.UISER WASHINGTON
bombs on the cruiser as she passed
under the bridges.
The action of the rear "admiral was
clouded in mystery at the navy yard.
Commander Frank B. Upham, aide to
tfie rear admiral, declared tonight
there was no reason to suspect that
anyone contemplated hurling bombs
on the "Washington, and that no re -
quest nau oeen maae or the police
for additional guards on the bridges.
The cruiser Washington, which will
I be relieved by the Tennessee in Hai-
iNY ns
FOR CONGRESS
PRESIDENT TO URGE ACTION ON
BILLS FOR ARMY AND Hi
HflPF I1F AID Tfl ,
IIUI L. Ul IIIU IU u
STARVING ROLES
THOUGHT SILL
British Are Inclined to
Doubt Wisdom of Move-
ment of U. S. to Send Sup
plies to Stricken and Sor
rowing Xation
FEAR GERMANS
MIGHT PROFIT
English Officials Realize
. That Plight of Natives is
Pitiful, Hut Suggest That
Conquering Germans Can
Relieve Famine
Republicsn A. Leased Wire
LONDON. Feb. 6. The foreign of-
ffice has given out a' letter from Sir
Edward Grey, secretary ' for foreign
affa'jrs, to Herbert C. Hdovef, chair
man of the American commission for
relief in Belgium, and the cable
grams exchanged between the Polish
Relief Societies of Chicago and Prem
ier Asquith. which indTcate that no
agreement has yet been reached be
tween the belligerents for the relief
of the civilian population of Poland. '
Supplementing this correspondence,
the Associated Press has been given
a letter from Mr. Hoover, which re
sulted in the reply published by the
foreign office. The correspondence on
the subject leaves the proposition of
feeding Poland unsettled and con
firms the opinion in well informed
relief circles here that any agree
ment which would enable relief to be
carried on is so regarded as to make
it extremely impossible.
Discussing Sir Edward Grey's let
ter, Mr. Hoover said:
"Sir Edward Grey's letter has been
referred to me by Ambassador Gerard
at Berlin, with the hope that it will
furnish a basis for negotiations.
Americans interested in Poland re
lief work must however, bear in mind
that all allied shipping is so pre
occupied in allied transport that
without the benevolent assistance of
some neutral government in provid
ing a regular snipping service tor
this purpose, it would be impracti
cable to do anything of a systematic
order, even if all the multitude of
other differences were overcome."
Mr. .Hoover's letter to Sir Edward
Grey, dated December 22, follows:
"Sir: Knowing your keen desire to
mitigate in every possible way human
suffering arising out of the war, I
feel justified in bringing before you
a suggestion in behalf of the civil
population of Poland. I attach here
to a petition wihich the commission
has received from the large and repre- .
sentative relief commission in War
saw1, and also a report made as a re
sult of personal investigation at our
instance by Dr. Vernon Kellogg, un
til lately director - in Belgium of our
work there. ,
"No added words of mine can dark
en the picture of misery and despair
I which these statements " depict, rep
resenting as they do, what would have
been the fate of Belgium but for the
relief afforded under international
auspices, with your earnest support. I
have had some informal conversation
with the German authorities, who
have assured me that there are cer
eals and potatoes available in Poland
and elsewhere from which by mobili
zation and organized distribution some
sorts of minimum ration can be pro
vided. Other items of a dietary do
not exist in Poland, and they are
critically necessary to preserve health
to the strong and life to the weak and
to forefend fronru the whole population
already incipient famine and diseases.
The shortages of these particular com
modities in Germany leaves no hope
(Continued on Page Two)
the senate and house and will impress
I on them his belief that it is necessary
d, of t prepaTaUoM program
,
as quickly as possible so Work may be
begun on the shipping bill, the tariff
commission bill and revenue legisla
tion. On the result of his interviews with
members of congress, as well as on the
question of the Lusitania negotiations,
will depend whether the president will
make another series of speeches. He
has not learned yet whether his tour
through the middle west has had a def
inite effect upon members of congress.
Tomorrow Mr. "Wilson will confer
with Chairman Jones of the house in
sular committee on the Philippine bill
passed by the senate last week.
The president is understood, to hav
approved the general features of the
j bill as-adopted in the senate, with its
provision for giving independence to
the Philippines within from two to four
J years, unless circumstances make a
; change in policy necessary.
The president will watch closely the
expected the discussion of the' nomina
tion of Louis D. Brandeis as a member
of the supreme, court.
His closest advisers believe Mr.
j Brandeis will be confirmed.
