&7 mWy
Tidings
ASH
"Ashland Grows While Lithia Hows"
City of Sunshine and flowers
Ashland. Oregon, LHhia Springs
"The Carlsbad of America'
VOL. XL
ASHLAND. OREGON, MONDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 191 G
NUMBER 74
Tax Collections
Now Being Received
The sheriff's office has issued the
following statement explaining the
operation of the new tax law passed
by the last legislature:
Section 1 of Chapter 156, Laws of
1915, amending Section 3682, Lord's
Oregon Laws, is now in effect and
reads as follows:
"The first half of all taxes legally
levied and charged shall be paid on
or before the fifth day of April fol
lowing, and the second half- on or
before the fifth day of October fol
lowing. "Interest shall be charged and col
lected on any tax or half of a tax not
so paid, at the rate of 1 per cent per
month or fraction of a month until
paid.
"All taxes remaining unpaid on
the fifth day of October next follow
ing shall become delinquent, and on
the fifth day of November next fol
lowing a penalty of 5 per cent shall
be charged and collected thereon In
addition to the interest provided
herein.
"All penalties and interest shall
be for the benefit of the county.
"Under this section taxes become
due and payable in two separate in
stallments. If the first half is not
paid by April 5, interest is charged
thereon (but not on the second half)
at the rate of 1 per cent for each
month or fraction of a month until
paid. If the second half is not paid
by October 5, Interest then begins
thereon at the same rate. No rebate
or discount is allowed for advance
payment of either installment.
"All taxes 'not paid in full on or
before October 5 become delinquent.
After said date and until the taxes
are paid, or certificate of delinquency
is issued, interest continues to run at
the rate of 1 per cent for each month
$$$S$$$$$833$
S TO HE ELKCTKI) IN 1010. $
S 4
S 10 delegates to republican, dem- $
? ocratlc, and progressive na- S
S tional party conventions.
$ President of United States, to S
3 succeed Woodrow WIlBon. S
S Vice-president of the United s
States, to succeed Thomas R. $
$ Marshall.
5 presidential electors. .
3 representatives In congress, to
S succeed W; C. Hawley, C. N. $
? McArthur and N. J. Sinnott. $
3 Secretary of state, to succeed
Ben W. Olcott. $
$ 2 Justices of the supreme court, $
to succeed Frank A. Moore
and George H. Burnett. ?
W. I. Vawter, Oregon Pioneer
Died Friday at Bedford Home
TOXIGIIT.
Springs Dedication
Celebration Events
Dairy and food commissioner, to $
succeed J. D. Mlckle.
2 commissioners of the Public $
Service Comlmssion, one from S
western Oregon to succeed C. 5
B. Aitchison and T. K.
3 Campbell, and one from eastern 3
5 Oregon. $
Q 17 circuit judges. $
$ District attorney In each county. $
11 state senators. ?
1 60 state representatives.
County and precinct officers. S
3 Voters desiring to be fully 3
posted on all dates and require- ?
ments should write Ben W. 01- S
cott, secretary of state, Salem,
$ for copy of Digest of the Elec- 3
tlon Laws of Oregon. s
-
See Rabid Coyote
Near City Limits
Jake Snyder and Sam Cherry re
port seeing a mad coyote on the rail-
f f " y .' ' v" ; "'
S The. Commercial Club meets $
3 tonight at 8 o'clock, and a good
3 attendance Is desired. There
? will bo
mlttee reports and other matters ! y Ahli,nd's residents fr the
of importance relative to the : l""'1,0Se f KetUnK tl"ir aM
future of Ashland will be dis- ' ca,lvassinS the city for funds to de
? cussed. & fray tlle exlt,nos of the springs dedl-
j t , alum ceienrauon to lie held In July.
Last Friday evening the executive
some intorestlnir mn,. a ,n',,:u " "'emng oi soma
0 .
There were present at this meeting
JtiHt six who were ready to offer their
j services which committee refused to
j accept at this lime, as it was an im-
iiuNuion 10 as inese few ralthfuls to
Synchronization
Difficult!'10 that whlch siiou'i be dne bv
J I greater numlior of our people. It wasa
decided to again send out a call in a
Six engineers, the b.t electrical ! few days,
experts on the coast, have failed to j The general plan of the celebration
synchronize the city and company, was outlined at the meeting, and
electric systems, and, to use Council-! those present expressed themselves as
man Lambs' words, "The blame trou-! surprised at the magnitude of the af
ble is causing more gray hairs than , fair and stated that If the general
the high cost of living." The two public were given to understand what
systems Just simply won't parallel j the executive committee has so far
under the existing conditions, and the planned, there would lie no difficulty
problem was finally referred to the In raising the necessary funds. Un
Westlnghouse company experts, who
are considered the last word on elec
trical problems. The Westinghouse
people submitted as their opinion
to this time there has betn no an
nouncement made as to what the
committee has In mind. For the
general public's benefit it mav bo
that If the transmission line from the j said that the following events are.
municipal plant to the center of dls- being negotiated for and more not
tributioB was replaced by a copper : here mentioned are to be provided:
line of much lower resistance, thus
reducing the line loss about 7 per
cent, the synchronization could be ac
complished. The electric committee
recommended Immediate purchase of
financial life of the Rogue River val
ley, and one of the most prominent
citizens of Medford, died at his home
in that city Friday night about . 9
road track near Jackson's hot springs o'clock, February 4, 1916, aged 52
last week. The beast was walking up years. Death was caused by Bright's
W. I. VAWTER.
, , , 4 u, . . . the new wire, which will cost in the
Auomey . i. v .wi , v, ummeui ( B.,.p oi me uregon-California land t neighborhood of $1,400. Some of
for years in the political, legal and . Brnt commission. He was well the councilmen asked who would
Known tnroughout the state, and two guarantee that with the new line In,
years ago was prominently mentioned the sought for results would be ac
as a candidate for governor on the compllshed. It developed that no one
republican ticket. He represented ' would have anything to gain by guar.
Jackson and Douglas counties as anteelng this, but that it was the
joint representative In the state leg-' unanimous opinion of several experts
islatnrn at Iho 1nn iun nnj .u, n
SJTf?; 2 h r"""? Df1Tntiand d0WD the track" snapping .nd; disease, from which he had ben a !dc-ayed train at anotTr s s onYi
on haTd suS of sufferer, acutely, for the last two and, robbed hln, of the honor of WlnTZ
on inai aaie SUDject to a penalty Of be nB affected with the rahlps. The ' one-half mnnthn. Tho neu-B enmo sneaker nf fhe 1,ne n . ,,, '
. 1 " aa uuo.i'ne ioss causea uy tne nigh resist-
two men were not provided with a shock to the entire valley, a relapse of the best known men in Jackson ance on the p .sent wire had lost the
following noperui steps toward re- county. i city $4,800 since the plant was estab-
covery. He is survived by his wife Mr. Vawter was a heavy property lished and that the new wlr would
and two sons, Vernon, who is asso- owner in the valley and was actively , reduce the loss to I per cent, thus
elated with him In the Jackson Coun-1 identified with the
i i .j- vuu""vi uaiiiK iui i Lnr i in h rn a nr vonro
vicinity of Ashland, although Klamath ty Bank, and William, who is a stu-jgrowth of Medford. He was presi- 'whether the synchronisation was ac-
and Siskiyou counties are both over-j dent at the University of Oregon, dent of the Jackson County Bank, complished by it or not.
run with the mad pests and are insti- : The Immediate family were present and up to the time of his illness cared i Councilmen Banta ami Rnnt atateil
5 per cent in addition to the Interest
specified.
"For Illustration, we" will assume
that the taxes on a certain property,
as charged on the roll, total $100.
"The first half ($50) may be paid
on or before April 5 and the second
half ($50) on or before October 5,
without interest or penalties on eith
er amount; but,
"If said first half is paid on any
day from April 6 to May 5, both dates
inclusive, there will be added an in
terest charge of 1 per cent (0.50);
from May 6 to June 5, inclusive, 2
per cent ($1); from June 6 to July
5, inclusive, 3 per cent ($1.50);
from July 6 to August 5, inclusive,
4 per cent ($2); from August 6 to
September 5, inclusive, 5 per cent
($2.60); from September 6 to Octo
ber 5, inclusive, 6 per cent ($3).
"If the entire tax of $100 is paid
on any day from October 6 to Novem
ber 4, Inclusive, the interest charged
will be 7 per cent on the first half
($3.50) and 1 per cent on the second
half (0.60).
"If the entire amount is paid on
shooting irons and the beast escaped,
going back up into the hills.
This is the first rabid coyote which !
has been reported In the immediate elated with him in the Jackson Coun-1 identlf ld
tuting a vigorous campaign -to ex-1 at the last sad hour.
terminate them. In some places in I Mr. Vawter was a native of the
for a large legal business. During! that they would vote no because of
his busy life he received many hon-.lack of information, if the question
Art Smith, the world's most noted
aviator, may be here. It Is hoped
that he will make two flights one
In the day time and another, an
illuminated flight, at night. It i9
possible, if the cost is within our
reach, that we may have more flights
during the three-day celebration. Art
Smith is one of the most daring oC
aviators, and those who saw his
flights at the Panama exposition can
tell you of his looping the loop, fly
ing upside down, sideways, doing the
corkscrew dip and death dive. Ho
calls his flights "aerial Insanity,"
and he surely flirts with the under
taker every 'time he looks at hla
aeroplane.
VV. E. Priestly, who had charge of
the Panama exposition pyrotechnic)
display, and who is now In Honolulu
In charge of the Midwinter Festival
Illumination, will be in Ashland
about the middle of March to arrange
for a display here. C. A. Malone,
who is on the committee of electrical
illumination, is in correspondence
with the General Electric Company
to see if It Is possible for us to get
southeastern Oregon and northern state of Oregon, being born in the , ors, political, fraternal and honorary. 1 was put. The mavor declared imme-
1...11U.UW ... . uut uermeu Bai io v, mameue vaney, ana was one or tne e was one or tne leading citizens of diate action was necessary and the a half dozen of scintillators In order
ne was lniensei) inter- purchase was ordered by a four to 'to get an entirely different effect on
allow children to go to school uupro
tected
(Continued on Page Four.)
No Water Yesterday
In the Park
The mineral waters were not flow
ing in the park as usual yester
day. For the past two weeks they
have been flowing there intermittent
ly. From time to time the machinery
has been started and stopped for ad
justment. There has been more or
less trouble on the power line, caused
by the storm and adjustments that
have been made by the power com
pany in synchronizing its plant with
the city plant.
There is nothing apparently wrong
with the water plant. It has not yet
been offered for acceptance by Smith,
Emery & Co. It Is stated that no
large plant is ever put Into success
ful operation until more or less time
is consumed in minor adjustments.
Besides that, of course, the city or
the springs commission has nothing
to do with its operation until it is
finally offered for acceptance. In the
meantime the plant will no doubt be
operated by the contracting company
to suit their convenience in adjust
ment, and the public may expect that
at times the water will be off In the
park until the adjustments are com
pleted and the plant is ready for
final test and inspection for accept
ance. This explanation Is made that the
public may be advised as to the'truB
situation, as some have thought the
plant has been completed arid accept
ed by the springs commission.!'' ' '.
of Pythias and other fraternal or
ders. One of the last public acts of Mr.
Vawter was to accept the chairman-
Adjourned Meet
Of City Council
The city council met in adjourned
session Thursday evening of last
week and finished several matters
which were left over from the regu
lar meeting. All of the city officials
were present and one or two specta
tors remained part of the evening.
The monthly report of the city
electrician was received and filed I Tne Pompadour Mineral Springs
and a requisition from the electrical Company is prepared to spend $15,000
earliest graduates of the University t the state.
oi uregon. ne was a resiaeni oi ; esiea in tne development of the two vote. A night letter was ordered
Medford for 27 years. He was a j Rogue River valley. In politics he sent Immediately ordering the wire,
member of the Masons, Elks, Knights, was a republican, and was a high! .
counselor in its ranks. n .
The funeral occurred today and JrOUltrV SHOW
was attended by the Masonic lodges' i. nr j i
or A.i.ianj. aians weanesaav
Gas and Lithia Plant To Be Built
At Cost of Fifteen Thousand
Except for the return of entry
blanks from those who will have poul
try on exhibition at the poultry show
the pyrotechnic display from any
thing ever before attempted in Ore
gon. Art Smith and the fireworks
display are only two of the features
which we hope to have for the free
entertainment of our visitors and
which are not revenue producers
other than to draw people here.
The "Roundup," or whatever other
name It may be given, should be self
sustaining, and if the weather Is fa
vorable it will no doubt make its ex-
department for material needed waB
allowed.
Several matters which were report
ed elsewhere were discussed and an
hour spent in listening to the read
ing of the new liquor ordinance.
The council decided to have a new
shed erected over the oil barrels 3t
the city garbage grounds. The mayor
and some of the councilmen indulged
in some remarks, humorous and oth
erwise, concerning the attitude of res
idents in the neighborhood of the
dump, towards that institution.
in the erection of a lithia water bot
tling plant and liquid gas plant to be
erected on their property. Harry Sil
ver, one of the incorporators and
original owners of the springs owned
by the company, makes the following
statement regarding the company's
activities:
"The necessary preliminary survey
of the Pompadour Spring grounds
has been made by City Engineev
Walker. Blue prints are now on the
way to Saratoga Springs. Mr. Chas.
G. Anthony will on receipt of thein
lieves in Saratoga Springs, N. Y., be
ing the world famous spa on the At
lantic coast and Ashland, Ore., her
to be held at Medford this week.
Wednesday being entrance day, the!,0nse8- whl('h are ,n the neighbor-
arrangements for the first show of i
that kind ever held In the valley are
about complete.
Judge F. B, Kecney, one of the
most prominent and popular poultry
equal on the Pacific, and will give all judges in the west, and who served
the assistance possible In working out
the great result."
The bill for current from the Call-j work out the plans and specifications
fornia-Oregon Power Company for, for the bottling and liquid gas plant
last month, which aggregated approx-1 to be erected near the 'Pompadour
imately $1,006, was ordered paid. J Chief pavilion. These buildings will
This bill laid over from the regular be of an attractive style and will add
meeting because some of the mem- to the surroundings,
bers of the finance committee wer a "It will require from three' to four
not acquainted with the procedure by week's to get the plans from Sarato-
which the amount of current usel ga. In he meantime work will begin
was estimated, the meters not yet on such portions of the development
having been installed. The city elec-; that can be pushed, as soon as the
Debate Tonight
WithOId Rivals
The Ashland high school debate
team is to meet Medford at Medford
this evening. The Medfor'd aggrega
tion refused to use more than two
trician explained that the city paid
the company 85 per cent of the act
ual current sold, thus allowing for
all losses and a profit which goes to
ward operating the city's department.
weather conditions will permit.
"The bottling plant will incorpor
ate the only method whereby mineral
waters like our lithia waters can be
bottled and furnished the public with
The recorder reported a profit of a positive guarantee that the water
about $74 on heating current alone
on that bought from the company.
The meeting was the most harmo
nious oft any which the new council
have enjoyed, and no heated discus
sion was indulged in. The next regu
lar meeting of the council is a week
from Tuesday'. . ;
Wasco county, Oregon, once" had
130,000 square . mlles;,nearly, -fotir. oib, of
times the sUe.of England and Wales, . Springs Company. He thoroughly be-
in the bottle is a natural mineral wa
ter. Soratoga mineral waters are the
only waters bottled In this manner
in this country.
"The cost of the two plants will be
In the neighborhood of $15,000. .The
plans will contemplate enlargement
as the company's output increases.
Mr.. Anthony will be a stockholder
and a member of the board of dlrect-
the Pompadour Mineral
as commissioner from Oregon In the
poultry shows at the Panama-Pacific
exposition last year, will be the judge
of the pens in Medford, having con
sented to serve the Southern Oregon
Poultry Association this week. Prizes
will be awarded on Thursday. That
will be a big day at the show.
Claude C. Cate, the recently ap
pointed pathologist for this county,
has secured the services oi a lecturer
from the Oregon Agricultural Col
lege. One of his addresses at the
men on their team and offered to do-!8now wl" probably be delivered on
bate against the three members of Tn,ira(lav-
,r T Talks by other poulterers will be
tho Ashland team. However. Profes-1 , .... , . .... ........
: mtiue tim ing ine uiiyB ui me niiuw
sor Hodge and his men decided to cut 'period, from Wednesday to Saturday,
down to two. Raymond Badger with-1 inclusive, besides other features of
drew from the team of his own free interest.
will as he wished to play basketball. Tne Medford garage, now unused,
The other members of the Ashland at tne corner of Bartlett and Eighth
team are Cleo Kirk and Ernest Ab- streets (known also as the Emerlck
hood of some $5,000. The committee
has under consideration three pieces
of ground on which to stage this
event, the smallest of which is. six
acres. Clarence Adams, who for years
was a resident of Pendleton and con
nected with every Pendleton Round
up and who Is now a resident of Ash
land, is chairman of this committee.
! It would be unwke to publish the
(Continued on Pare Eight.)
Roseburg High
School Burns
bott. The Medford team Is made up
of two of the members of last year's
team. Both Ashland and Medford
are winners so far, Ashland having
garage, has been engaged as the
place to'hold the show.
A big list of cash and merchandise
prizes have been offered by mer-
won from Talent, and lWeHrnrrt fnm chants and individuals throughout
Crants Pass.' Ashland wlll'be at a the valley and make it worth while
disadvantage as they will have to
change from the affirmative to the
negative of the question. The ques
tion is "Resolved, that the United
States should adopt the essential fea
tures of the Swiss military system."
Professor Hoge Is the coach of the
Ashland boys.
The winner of this debate will
meet Klamath Falls for the cham
pionship of the southern Oregon dis
trict. ' ,yi;MM,:,r
for the entrants. Many of the poul
try raisers of the Ashland district
will enter exhibits, and much Interest
has been aroused throughout the val
ley in the show.
The Commercial Clue requests the
names and addresses of parties who
are considering coming to the coast
his summer. We wish to send them
lterature and give them a good con
ception Df Oregon: ' L 74-tf 1
The Roseburg high school building
burned to the ground last Thursday
evening with a Ioss estimated at $3G,
700 and the destruction of all the
school records for twenty years. The
cause of the fire Is unknown. Insur
ance to the amount of $17,900 will
aid In the erection of a new building.
The Roseburg basketball team were
playing in Ashland the evening their
school burned. All of the pupils'
books and teachers' equipment was
destroyed.
The Roseburg students will be giv
en a vacation of about a week while
new quarters In churches and tho
Roseburg armory are being fitted up.
The Roseburg school board favors
building a new high school at a cost
approximating $70,000.
At the Narrows, Celllo rapids, the)
Columbia river Is only 150 feet wide.
This Is the proposed site of the great
est power plant In the United States.
Astoria will have an $85,000 clay
manufacturing Industry. : .
