MAYSVILLE, KENTUCKY, MONDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1010.
'Rf.kl i jwrrnT.teAX-iHi.
fiA IhYrVItLJOJ. KDUKK-lWt
ONE COPY-ONE CENT.
"GOD BLESS YOU"
kl,ncle Hlir Allen Loses Sent
House (iriKcdilly, Snyf
the l'rmikffiri Slate
.loiiruni.
In
"Otut blcBH you, brother, tlioy'vo sent
itia home."
Never n tremor, not the nicker of
nii eyelash marked tho stateinonUcom
Ins from "Undo Hill" Allon, as lie re
sopnded to tho grcctlnc of tho Stat?
Journal representative nftor tho mem
bers of tho House had voted to oust
him yesterday In favor of S. C. Dobbs,
his Democratic opponent.
With tho bit! face wrenthed Ih a
smile that gave the observer tho Im
pression thnt "t'nclc Ulll" had not a
care In tho world, tho erstwhile Uep
resontatlvo from tho Cllnton-Wnync
district shook hands with his numer
ous friends and apparently wns given
but llttlo concern to tho fact that he
had been declared a usurper.
But tho strain was too great. For
many minutes he maintained tho same
nonchalant air whllo his very heart
strings must have been toru by tho an
guish that followed tho action of the
members of the House. Then enme the
break.
Suddenly his big frame shook and
"Uncle 1)111" gulping once or twice to
keep back the big tears, gavo way to
his feelings and llko a child ho threw
his arms about ono of his close friends
and a Democratic friend at that
and gave vent to his feelings In a real
old-fashioned cry.
Withal, however, It never occurred
to "Undo mil" to offer a word of cen
sure. To his closest friend ho ex
pressed the sentiment that ho had been
wronged. Hut to tho public In a state
ment given out for the newspapers
there was not the slightest sign of
bitterness; not the slightest indication
that "Uncle 11111" had a sort spot.
NOTICE! XOTICK!
We have 200 extra copies of papers
containing the big tobacco cartoon
which appeared In Thursday paper.
Persons wanting same can get them at
this office for 1 cents .a copy as long as
they last.
If you don't need fnncy linens bet
ter not tempt yotirsef by look nt pur
Half-I'rlcc draw-work or Dattenburg
scarfs, cloths, doilies and centers, for
they are Irresistible values. In the
same class Is our $1.25 all-llncn mUIii
damask lunch cloth 3G inches square.
Hunt's.
TALKS ON I'OtiLTKY CUIUS.
I'rof. Chapln of tho Stnto University
of Lexington, wns In this city Thurs
day, and that night ho gavo a talk on
poultry clubs to tho pupils and par
ents of tho Eastland school. Tho talk
was practical and no doubt will bo
productive of much good.
Kxnulslte heavy doublo tnbln dam-
afk, satin gloss, 72 Inch width, $2.98
yard. Match Napkins $6.50. Hunt's.
HI. Mil) CHUCK HOI.liS.
I( Hie Number of Pounds of Tobneco
Hold On Hie Mnysilllo Breaks
TliM .Season.
Within tho laBt few days some ono
with an eye to business, filled the
chuck holes on Kast Second street
that havo been mentioned In tho col
umns of this paper so often. Tho resi
dents of Kast Second street extend
thanks to whoever It may bo due.
Illcachod and Silver-bleached table
linen "2 inches wide. Wonderful pat
tern variety, unsurpassed quality, $1,
$1.25 yard. Napkins to match $2.98
and $3.98. Hunt's.
With tho closing of tho sales Friday
at tho various looso leaf tobacco
warehouses hero tho official flgurors
began compiling tho sales for this sea
son, nnd after footing up each day's
actual sales It wbb found that 11,335,-
995 pounds had been tho total of all
sales up to this week.
This Is a considerable shortage over
tho same period of last season, nnJ
many tobacco men nro of tho opin
ion that there will not bo over 17,000,
000 pounds sold this season on this
mnrkct.
It this bo the case, nnd the offerings
continue as heavy as they hnvo tho
last two weeks, thero will bo no to
bacco for salo after March 1, unless It
Is Imported from some foreign territory.
ODDFELLOWS
COMMITTEE
Elects Those Who Will Have Charge
of the Indigent Home At
Eminence.
Tho commltteo appointed by the
Grand Lodge I O. O. K., to havo
charge of tho homo for Indigent Odd
Fellows, wives, widows and Kcbekahs,
met at Eminence Friday and organized
by electing Judge E. n. January of
Paris, president and treasurer, and J
C. Helburn of Eminence, secretary
The board then nppolnted S. T. Dou
thttt of Nowcastlc, and J. C. Helburn
of Eminence, n board of control until
the meeting of tho Grand Lodge In
October, and they were Instructed to
mnko such repairs and Improvements
as will put the dormitory in good
shape.
E. D. January, A. W. Clements and
George I. Drelol were appointed a
commltteo to draft by-laws for the
government of the home.
Mr, and Mrs. Charles Clendcnln of
Paris, were elected superintendent and
matron and will take chargo of tho
homo at an early dato and help to get
it In shape for receiving guests. This
will probably take somo time.
Treasurer January was Instructed to
collect all outstanding pledges and to
secure as many now pleflgps and dona
tions as possible.
Tobacco .Supervisor's lteporl.
The Maysvlllo tobacco market for
tho last week was about up to the
standard. Grade for grado prices re
mained about the same, whllo tho av
erage was not quite up to last week.
The cold, dry weather had the effect to
make tho tobneco look harsh and not
show up to n good ndvnntagc.
Tho markcl sold for the week a
total of 2,265,112 pounds nt an av
erage of $10.96. Rejections continue
about tho same. Tobacco not moving
on account of the dry weather.
W. MITCHELL, Supervisor.
1'ILECTHICITY CUT OFF.
1915 OUR BANNER YEAR 1915
We wish to thank our manv friends and customers for their liberal uatronaee tar this.
pur fourth year in business, which has proven to be considerable beyond our anticipation, for
tfbcn we are very waoMm,
We ire noyv looking forward to a greatly increased business the coming year and we
naye instanea me latest ang most unproven equipment tor nanonng your uiueis, wu bw
antees high grade mill work and satisfaction to all, at the best possible, prices,
We ar? (eiders in our line.
CORNER LIMESTONE AND SECOND
THE MASON LUMBER COMPANY
A, a. Mclaughlin,
STREET. PHQNE519,
L, X, IlEHAX.
HOBBIES
A prominent physician tolls us that "hobbies" arc healthy
things for ns to have, and we feel that we must bo blessed with
unusually good health, as we have A LAV AYS had a hobby
and it's
HARNESS!
Years ago, when leather sold for nineteen cents a pound,
our boast was that we made tho best harness tht could. b,o
made of good leather, good thread and gflod, workmnnsldp.
Now, when that saie K'ilitl of pother h selling for forty-nino
and iifty cents a pound, we Kt ill maintain that wo havo tho
best harness that can be made. All you have to do to prove
that we arc telling you facts is to go to tho next "sale," and
hear Col. Ilonsloy Hawkins say in that nuisical drawl far wju'cll
ho is so famous, "This is, a sot, gcntlciuen,, o,f Miko Brown's
Harness. "Vhat do you bid, J" Then 'a vyhen yon can sco tho
fanner "set Hp autl take notice," for ho knows there will bo
some bidding on that harness..
This is the time of the year, when Harness i,s foremost in
every farmer's npnd, nnd t'u's fa v timo of the year, also,
when we nro ready sell him,. All winter Ipng our men havo
been making up harness for Spring trade, and now wo nro.
ready. Of course, it's higher than when. o,lU" grand.fn,thers
used to buy it, but, considering flip price f leather, it's a
wonder hoy lpy in price and high in quality tho Square
harness, is,
Come in, gcntlcmeili We are rewly to rig up thoso horses.
MIKE BROWN
I
I
S
"THE SQUARE DEAL MAN"
IHMMMI
EVERYONE LIKES THE FLAVOR OF WHEATiNA
THY ONE PACKAGE. IT 80LYLS THE HHKAKFA8T PltOIILEM,
Jl'ST TAl'l'EI) AXOTHKH 1IAKHEL OF THE FINEST NK.1V ORLEANS
MOLASSES EVElt IIKOUOHT TO TOWN.
11,335,995
Tho Maysvlllo Electric Light Com
pany Sunday was busy making some
needed repairs in-tho system nnd In
doing so wns compelled to cut oil the
curretn. Tho "Juice" was off all the
morning nnd the greater part of the
nftcrnoon.
r.vufliMvoons.
Miss Eva I'aufih, ngod 24, of Hasll,
O., and Mr. Clinton V. Woods, aged 27,
of Akron, O., wero married In .tho ofllcc
of County Clerk James Owens Satur
day afternoon by J ml go W. H. Rice.
MAIL OltDKltS PKOJIPTLY FILLED.
For all grades of whibkles and
liquors, Qqr prices arc right. Order
today. Poyntz Bros., Covington, Ky.
MAGISTRATE'S COl'HT.
Tom Hickman was fined $9.55 on a
brooch of tho peace charge in Squire
Fred W. Bauer's Court Saturday after
noon.
VALENTINES, VALENTINES,
Our lino la tho largest over brovight
to Maysvlllo. Seo us first, Prices
cent to $3. Op Ku;cio,
William V. Wlllett. aged 80, ser
gennt of Company I, Sixteenth Ken
tucky Infantry, during tho war, and an
Inmate of tho Soldiers' Homo at Day
ton, O., died nt St. Mary's, O., whllo
on a furlough. Ho was admitted to
tho Homo March C, 1911, from Cherry
Fork, O. Sergeant Wlllett was well
known In this section, especially by
thoso of his comrndcs-In-arms who
aro left.
Hon. A. M,. Casey p( tlopWuavlllo,
former county demonstrator of Ma
sou county, Bpont Sunday with Mr. J.
B. Durrctt in tho county. Mr, Casoy
looks well and says ho enjoys Hop
klnsvlllu, but tho old homo looks,
mighty good to hint.
25c, 35c and 50c Turkish towels, ac
tual fido, 75a and SI Qualities. Tha
biggest towel ten cents' worth ever
offered Is our 20x3G colored-border
hncks. Tho greatest 25c towel (a ha
market Is our pure hemstitched
huck. Hint's,
Our price this week for hutterfat,
32 cents Muysvlllo. llrltig it In any
day, any tlmo of tho day, and receive
your check promptly.
MAYSVILLE MODEL CllEAMERY.
Funeral services of Mrs. Agnes Y,
Shanklln wcro conducted Sunday
mornbig nt 10 o'clock at her lata resi
dence, near Maysllck,. Burial nt Mays
lick. Tho Sewing Rocly of tho Central
PreshyttM'llui church wU meet with
tho Misses l,ce on Market street Tues
day afternoon ut 2 o'clock.
Luclmla Wescott, an Inmato of the
Comity Infirmary, died Inst Saturday
of tuberculosis ami wns buried In the
Shannon cemetery.
SCOTT-SCinVAHTZ.
.Miss Hynl Schwartz, daughter of
Mr; nnd Mrs. It. S. Schwartz of Tolcs-
horp, and formerly of this city, and Mr.
Howard Scott of Portsmouth, O., woro
quietly married nt tho homo of tho
brldo's parents Saturday morning at
11 o'clock by Jtov. A. F. Stnhl of the
Christian church. Tho hapn'y coupte
will mnko their homo In Portsmouth,
Ohio.
LAST CHANCE,
To get dally Courier-Journal for 4
per year by innll. Offer expires March
Do Nuzlc, Agent.
Denying George B. Alexander, Im
prisoned Paris banker, a pardon, Gov
ernor Stanley said he could find no
extenuating circumstances In tho case
of tho man who practiced "every art
of deceit to secure tho confidence of
his fcllow-mcn nnd enticed them Into
nu unknown snare."
Tim mysteilotis flying tire that made
such a wonderful hit In New York nnd
Chicago shows, will bo on exhibition
at Mike Brown's tho Square Deal
Man, for a few dnys, beginning Sat
urday, February C. It Is a very ro
mnrknblo feature Don't miss It.
Beeslc Brooks, 45, an Inmate of the
County Infirmary, died "last Saturday
of Brlght's disease, followed by an
operation for appendicitis. Burial
Monday nt tho County Infirmary.
Hnvo yon rend Hunt's ad today7
FIRST WOMAN LAWYER
Mtsx Orn Hnzclip, Well Knonn Here,
Siicreeils Caldwell In Stnto
Legal Department.
Miss Or a llazullp of Brownsville,
enjoys the distinction of being tlio
first woman lawyer holding n position
In tho legal department of the state.
She Is law clerk, succeeding Robert
Cnhlwoll, who has resigned to enter
prlvnto practice.
Miss llazolip was In tho olllcg of At
torney Genernl M. SI. Logan at
Brownsville nnd practiced law there.
She went with him to Frankfort as hia
stenographer and remained In thnt
capacity until her recent promotion.
She linn been at the head of the
Daughters of Hebekali In Kentucky
and Is a good parliamentarian as well
oc an attorney.
WELLKNOWN
W'n John Singleton, Who Is Said To
llaie 1 1 ec n Lnt On the Sam
II ran n Lnit )Vcrk.
(Ironton Heglster,)
John Singleton, the deckhand, of
Point Pleasant, O., nniong the miss
ing reported In tho explosion of tho
towbont Snm Brown, as chronicled In
Inst, evening's Register, Is fnvorably
known hero from his baseball career.
Ho wns a pitcher for the Clittllcoth'
ten in, Inter going to Maysvlllo, and has
played on tho Beechwood diamond.
Tho Gnlllpolis paper snys ho may tinvc
shipped on the towbont Plymouth and
wns not on tho Brown.
Engineer Snm Ranklns, living In
Slnrt Clorau's building on Railroad
street, knows Singleton well, and snys
he don't doubt thnt he wns on the Sam
Brown.
15 DILL PICKLES
5 In Bulk 15 Cents Dozen
Just Tapped A Barrel of Extra Fancy t- rnii
NEW ORLEANS MOLASSES D5C VjaUOfl
DI.NUEK BROS... s,rc"-
m
a
M
K
M
Linen Sheeting 2j yards wide, care- Last day for discount on February
fully shrunk, fSc nnd $1.1!). Hunt's. 1, gas bills.
LOOK HERE!
Singleton Is well and fnvorably
known here among baseball lovers,
having como with tlm baseball team
from Chllllcotho, nnd It Is hoped tho
news of his having been lost on tho
Brown Is untrue.
Seo tho largest line of Valentines in
.Maysvlllo at Do Nuzlo.
Xcws worth noting In Hunt's ad.
Ill Why Go to the Trouble and Kxpcnse of Ordering From a City
! When Wc Have a Complete Line of
jjj Trusses, Crutches Abdominal Supports g
At a Reasonable Price. See Us.
3 M. F. WILLIAMS DRUG COMPANY S
i Saturday was a good business day
nnd tho merchants wero Jubilant.
There's a message In Hunt's ad
for YOl'.
j1 THE HDME DF QUALITY CLOTHE 5
Our Semi-Annual Shirt Sale
Begins Next Tuesday, the8th
Manhattan $1.50 shirts at $1.25.
Manhattan $2 Shirts at $1.65.
Eclipse $1 Shirt at 85c.
This sale will continue for ten days. You know they are
the best brands of shirts made in the country.
Our cut prices on the best clothes made continues until
further notice.
J 3D. KCH3CB3:iISrC3-E3I &, co. I
jflHB9KBB9BVQHEHHHIHiBMIHBHMiBMMHKHHHHBlHflHHIflHHIBBIBHHHHHIHIHHNHMH
5
DO NOT POSTPONE LINEN BUYING
This year more than ever It is advisable to replenish generously the linen sunulv War has luterferrcd with llnx production ; linen
is becoming scarcer. From an economical standpoint tho purchase of linen now Is tho part of wisdom.
Bleached Table Linen EOc to $3 yard.
SUver Bleach Damnpk 50c to $1.25.
Colored Table Lint-u 25c to $1.
Dinner Napkins $1 to ffi.50 doren.
Tea Nankins fine to $3.5ft dozen.
Damask Towels 25c to $1.25.
lluck Towels 10c to $1.50
Turkish Towels 12V4c to 7Cc.
Guest Towels 19c to 5nc.
Set of Cloth and 12 Nankins $7 to $15.
Dollies 5c to 25c.
Center Pieces 25c to $1.
Colored Costunio Linens $Sw to $1.25 yard.
J LJi. . . Bill
Compare those prices with the
qualities they represent ami sat
isfy yourself, that incredible as
it seems, we are positively of
fering linens at Ihe same price
wo did before the tocsin of war
sounded in Europe. ::::::::
Handkerchief Llnnn 40c to S1.50 yard.
Luncheon Cloths 25c to $5.
IlattenburK and Slexlcnn Table Cloths 75c to $10.
Scarfs 25c to $4.
Crash Toweling1 5c to 20c yard.
Huck Towellnc 25c to COc yard.
Linen Sheets 88x9G Inches, $5 pair.
Linen Sheets SGxlOO inches, $C pair.
Linen Sheeting 75c to $1.50 yard.
Linen 1'illow Cases $2 to $2.50.
Pillow Caso Linen 11G to 45 inches, according to
width, 40c to 75o yard.
Linen Tubing 40 to 42 Inches. 75o nnd S5c yard.
Whllo niouso and Dress Linen 25c to $1.50 yard.
Miss Mollvuln, o( Vet Front stroet,
nftor spending several days visiting
friends In tho county near Minerva,
has returned home.
Subscribe uucp (op dally Courier
Journal by mail, $4. Only fow days
left. Do Nuzlc.
Hunt's llnon tale, now la full swing.
WE INVITE COMPARISON
After looklnR at Coats, Suits and Dresnes all over town wo know you will moro fully annreciatc our sulcmlld bargains. Of course
assortments In each lino aro limited nt this season, nevertheless just tho size, stylo and color you want may bo In our stock. Let us
show you tho $10 and $12ty Suits worth $20 and $25. Tho $7.50 nnd $8.75 sllk-nnd-vclvet dresses worth $15 and $17.50. Tho $5 ami
$6.25 fancy wool coats worth $10 and $12.50. Tho very excellent all wool black suits with satin lined coats, wo nro closing out for $5.00.
1852
1016
Sdfcond-hand desk and cabinet.
Lodger Publishing Company.
Sea
Mrs. L. M, Cavendish, who has been ' Mrs. Wallace' Uecso, who is a pa
visiting relatives at Huntington, re- Itlcnt at Hayswood Hospital, continues
turned homo Sunday afternoon. to Improve.
Mrs. Carroll Adamson ot Sardls, Is
visiting Mrs, D. V. Peebles ot West
Third Street.
IThe New House Dresses
Shave arrived. The famous "ELECTRIC BRAND'
3 the dresses with the perfect fit. Come in and select
3 a few while the assortment is good.
Sizes 34 to 54.
3
$1 to $2.98
