THE BARRE DAILY TIMES
VOL. XIX NO. 277.
ItAMiE, VKKMONT, MONDAY', FKHHUAHV 7, 1910.
Pit ICE, ONE CEXT.
PREPARING
OFFENSIVE
ON SALONIKA
TO REDUCE DEBT.
German, Austrian and Bul
garian Troops Are Said to
Be on the Move, Apparent
ly to Concentrate in At
tack on Tort Held by the
Allies
HEAVY ARTILLERY IS
MOVING SOUTHWARD
There Are Indications That
the Pressure on the Turks
in the Caucasus Has Been
Somewhat Relieved No
Change in.Mesopotamia Is
Indicated
And New Haven R. R. Will Renew Re
mainder.
IlOHiiji. Fob. 7. The indebtedness of
tlie New York, New Haven ami Hart
ford railroad, maturing May 1, la to bo
lured us much aa iosible and the
resources of the company and the re
mainder renewed upon the best term
obtainable, according to a statement of
tlio action of the special finance com
niittee of the directors inado pul)lie yea
terday by President Howard Elliott.
The indebtedness Is of $27,000,000 one
year 5 per cut notes.
President Klliott said as the report
of tlie Massachusetts public service com
mini-ion, ordered by the last legislature
to investigate tlie road's financial affair,
la expected in the latter part of Feb
ruary, it seems unwise at present to
attempt to make a mortgage and issue
bonds to take up tlie notes.
"It is hoped," saiil the state nient,"that
the retort will contain recommendation
that will enable the legislature to take
any action necessary, to remove any
doubts as to the legal status in Massa
chusetts of any investments of the com
pany. 1 lie committee, continues tlie
statement also considered the advisabil
ity of recommending an increase in the
WILSON TO PUSH
LEGISLATION
Prpsident Anxious to Ad
vance the Program on
Preparedness
MANY CONFERENCES
ARRANGED THIS WEEK
On Result of Conferences
Will Depend Possibility
of Another Tour
HAS NEW PEACE PLAN.
While recent reports of tlie actual
opening of an offensive movement by the
Teutonic allies against Saloniki appear
to bave been premature, tlie cables con'
tinue to bring accounts of various traop
movements, held in military quarters to
indicate that such an offensive probably
.is not far distant. Athens dispatches
to-day tell of continued concentration
of German, Austrian and Bulgarian
forces on the Greek frontier, together
with transfer of heavy artillery south
ward from Nish. i
There is a paucity of news of active
operations in any war fields. The latest
official bulletin from Constantinople- re
ports improved conditions for the Turks
who, apparently, have recently been un
der extremely severe pressure by the
Russians. Although the Ottoman forces
around Erzerum seemingly have not
been successful in undertaking an offen
give, they have been able to repulse all
renewed Russian attacks, they declare.
No change in the situation in Mesopo
tamia is indicated.
Washington, D. C, Feb. 7. The ad
ministration's leirii-lative uroaram, par-
capital of the company by an issue of ticu,ary natioimi preparedness and the
the preferred stock, "but concluded that I . . . . . . , ,
r . . ..... I iiuifnniu ..dud nttva urnmiui tii.f (IV OI
occupying much of I'reaident Wilson's
it is not best to ask tlio stockholders
for action on any such plan prior to
May 1, although they feel that the
stockholders sin wild give to this method
of raising money their careful consider
ation, so that debts may be paid and
needed improvements made promptly.
attention during the week, The presi
dent has engagements to confer with
many senators and representatives in
furtherance of his efforts to expedite
No amount of new stock has ever been the work of Congress on the army and
But Henry Ford Won't Say Much About
It at Present.
Chicago, Feb. 7. Henry Ford of De
troit, who sent a peace ship to Eu
rope, has a new peace plan.
"I would like to tell you about the
new "plan, but I ruut wait until my
party returus from Europe," said Mr.
Ford yesterday. He said he was perfect
ly satisfied with the results of his peace
expedition.
Mr. Ford came here to attend a Iwn-
quet given Saturday night by the Mica-
igan oeictypt Chicago, lie said that
his new efforts to bring the strife In
Kiirope to an end would be on a larger
scale than the Oscar JI expedition and
that his 'recruits would be "personalities
rather than personages."
"The new venture la along the same
lines as the first one, continued Mr.
Ford, "but on ft larger scale. I shall!
include some of the people I had on the
Oscar II. The people across the water
were astonished when they saw the per
sonnel of the party. They had exacted
to set.' a lot of 'high brows' and were
surprised to flint that they were just
every-diiy people. They would hardly
believe me when I told them I could
have brought thousands more of the
same." i .
HEROIC BRIDE
DIED IN FIRE
Rushed Back into a Burning
Lodginghouse to Res
cue Her Husband ,
THEIR BODIES FOUND
ABOUT 20 FEET APART
NEW YORK BRIDGES GUARDED.
determined upon, .and the rejiort that
$75,000,000 or any other amount was
to le recommended, is without founda
tion." ) ,
. '
, WILL NOT BE STAMPEDED.
Canadian Minister of Militia Issued a
- Statement Last Night.
GERMAN WARSHIP
REPORTED SUNK
Wireless Calls for Help Were Heard and
Then the Sounds Ceased, Says Dis
patch from Copenhagen.
Copenhagen, via London. Feb. 7. A
large German- warship has been sunk in
the Cattegat between the' island of An
holt and the Swedish coast, according to
a Copenhagen dispatch quoting the news
paper Helsinger Avis.
The dispatch says it is supposed the
vessel struck a mine. Wireless calls for
help were heard, but these "ceased after a
time.
The Cattegat is a body of water lying
between Denmark and Sweden, through
which vessels from the Baltic must pass
to reach the Atlantic ocean. The island
of Anholt lies in the center of the Catte
gat. TERRIFIC ARTILLERY
ENGAGEMENT
Is in Progress Between Labassee and Ar
ras and South of Somme River,
Says German Headquarters.
Berlin, via London, Feb. 7. Artillery
engagements of terrific intensity have
been in progress in the sector between
Labassee and Arras in northern Franca
and south of the Somme river, army
headquarters announced to-day.'
the navy bills, lid is anxious that these
measures lie disposed of aa soon as pos
sible so that other legislation can be
taken up, including the shipping bill,
the tariff commission bill and revenue
legislation. '
Whether President Wilson will make
another speech-making tour in the inter-
Ottawa. Ont.. Feb. 7. General Sir Sam I ents ot preparedness lunges upon tne
JWhea. minister of militia, declared last outcome of the conference with congres-
night that he would not be "stampeded" . sional leaders as well as on the LusiU-
bv those who fear German aggression , "". nnue me pwiuunnmnKni
in Canada. Since the destruction of the advised that he made a deep impression
Parliament building and a munition fac- on his rerwit trip he has not yet learned
wneiin-r it iiuu a ueuniuj eiieci ou v,n-gress.
To Prevent Dropping Bombs on U. S.
Warships.
New York, Feb. 7. Extra police
guards were stationed on the Brooklyn
and Manhattan bridges yesterday at
the request of Rear Admiral Usher, com
mandant of the New York navy yard, it
was announced at Brooklyn police head
quarters, to safeguard, the passage un
der the structures of Use uitiA States
cruiser Washington which arrived at noon
from Haiti. v.
The police said Rear Admiral Usher
explained to them that he desired the
Dozen More People Escaped
by Jumping or by Lad
ders at Portland
tory in Ottawa and a shell factory in
Hespeler, there has been & flood of ap
plications from all parts of the country
for military guards for factories engaged
in the production of munitions, military
clothing and saddlery, as well as from
municipalties for guards for water works
and railway terminals. To all audi ap
plications General Hughes has replied
that policing is ' the duty of the local
authorities and of the manufacturers
themselves.
Sometime ago General Hughes made
the announcement that his chief intel
ligence, officer was of German birth and
this statement had occasioned protests.
Discussing the subject Inst night, Gen.
Hughes said:
"The intelligence officer to whom I re
ferred is not in. Canada, but at the front.
He is only one of hundreds of German-
Canadians who are fighting for the Brit
ish nag. He has won the distinguished
service order for gallanfry in the trench
es. It would be well if those who are
inclined to criticise loval German-Cana
dians would follow their example and
go to the front to fight instead of stay
ing at home to criticise brave men who
are risking their lives.
"As for the fires which have recently
caused so much excitement. I am Biire
we would have fewer fires in munitions
factories, Parliament buildings and pub
lic and private places generally, if peo
ple would be more careful to sea that
their cigar and cigarette stumps are
extinguished before .they threw them
away."
LANSING DENIED
NEW DEMANDS
ON GERMANY
NO ULTIMATUM
TO RUMANIA
Central Powers Have Not Directed It,
According to Information Received
in London.
London, Feb. 7. The British govern
ment has received definite information
that the rejMirt to the effect that an ul
timatum hud lieen delivered by the eon
trsl (lowers to Rumania is without foun
dation.
ALARM IN MANY TOWNS.
When Canadian Home Guards Were
Called Out By Bugle.
Niagara Falls Ont., Feb. 7. Several
towns in western Ontario were thrown
into a panic late Saturday night by a
hurried calling of arms of the home
squad. Buglers hurried through the
streets sounding the alarm and unfound
ed rumors that one of the bridges here
had been blown up added to the excite
ment. -
At Saint Catherines theatre audiences
were dismissed when the men began to
leave in response to the bugle calls.
Guards were doubled at a munition plant
there. No oflieial at Saint Catherines
would say who ordered out the guard,
but it was understood there to have
been a general order throughout the province.
No orders were received to strengthen
Secretary of State Also Expresses Doubt
That Dr. Zimmerman, German Un
dersecretary, Said What Was
Credited to Him.
Washington, D. C.,' Feb. 7. Secretary
of State Lansing to-day flatly denied
that new demands had been made in the
Lusitania case at the time" when the
German government considered the nego
tiations practically at an end. He was
speaking of the Berlin dispatches quoting
references by Dr. Zimmerman, the Ger
man under-secrctary for foreign affairs,
to new demands.
"This' government,", said Secretary
Lansing, "has not increased the demands
made in the Lusitania case as set forth
in the previous notes. I doubt if Dr.
Zimmerman ever made the statement
that new demands had been injected, be
cause lie must know that it is utterly
false."
Secretary Lansing made it known,
however, that the state department con
sidered the situation unchanged.
Senator Stone of the Senate foreign
relations committee said, after talking
with administration officials, that it was
his impression that the Lusitania case
was practically settled. Administration
officials let it be known that a mere
choice of words would not lie permitted
to stand in the way of the success of the
negotiations and that the United States
will not insist on the word "illegal" or
"disavowal-' in Germany's acknowledge
ment that the sinking of the liner with
out warning and the loss of 115 Ameri
can lives was wrong.
extra guards 'as a precautionary meas
lire against the possible dropping of inr again in search of Mr. Gove.
bombs on the cruiser a he passed un
der the bridges.
The action of the rear admiral was
clouded in mystery at the navy yard
Commander Frank B. Upham, aide to
the' rear admiral, declared last night
there was no reason to suspect that any
one contemplated hurling' bombs on the
Washington and - that no request bad
been made of the police tor additional
guards on the bridges.
NEW YORKERS GET NERVOUS.
Became Alarmed When Subway Trains
- Halted and Tube Was Dark.
New York, Feb. 7. -Train service was
halted in the subway twice within 20
minutes last night and New York's un
derground railway system was in dark
ness as the. result of a abort circuit in
a cable box at the Grand Central sta
tion. 1 bousands of passengers, with ru
mors of bomb plot fresh in their minds
liecame alarmed but the light were off
only a few minutes and the guards ex
perienced little difficulty in preserving
order. -- .
While the accident was not unusual
it followed upon the heels of a general
police order for patrolmen to guard sub
way entrances and exits and search all
suspicions persons carrying suit cases or
bundles. As a consequence it caused
fear that something serious might have
happened.
CONSULAR AGENT ATTACKED.
WILSON AND LANSING AGREE.
of
That the Appam is a German Prize
War.
Washington. D. C, Feb. 7. President
Wilson is understood to hold the opin
ion that the British steamship Appam,
brought into Hampton Itoads by a Ger
man crew, must be considered as a prizo
of Germany under the Prussian-Auieri-
the guard on the bridges along the Ni-!can treaty of 1828. It was stated last
agara frontier, i hey have been under
a heavy guard since September, 1014,
Telephone messages from points along
the Wetland canal responded that noth
ing unusual happened during the day
and that no precautionary orders had
been received.
It is believed here that the excite
ment was due to some local cause and
that calling out of the home guard was
on orders from an officer whose command
included Saint Catherines and nearby
towns. Following closely upon the Ot
tawa fires, the hurried mobilization
threw the people into a temporary panic
during which rumors foupd ready circulation.
PRESSING GERMANS HARD.
British Are Said To Be On Their Heels
in German West Africa.
London. Feb. 7. The British are press
ing the liertnans hard in the Kamerum
region of ticrman West F.qiiatorial Af
rica A Spanish official communication
rays that 10(1 German and 14.000 of
their colonial troops have crossed the
southwest border and sought asylum in
Spanish Guinea, where they were dis
armed ani interned.
Prince Leopold of Bavaria, who haa
studied F.jrvpt thoroughly will be ap
pointed to command (ierman-Turkish I
1 . -... . . . . L f i
army in an aiiacs; on in r-iimt canal, ac
cord' re to the Bayerische Kurjer of Mu
ll K-h.
The Bfpper ar the eiied.tirn i
SLIGHT SKIRMISH ON SUNDAY.
Between French and Bulgarian Troops
Near Saloniki.
London, Feb. 7. A dispatch to Ren
ter's Telegram company from Saloniki
says:
"There was a skirmish Sunday W
tween French and Bulgarian mounted
patrols on the Doiran front at -alient
227 about a kilometre south of the fron,t
line. It resulted in two French soldier
being wounded. The Bulgarian casual
ties are nt known. This was the first
clash since tlie entente allies' retire
ment to their new lines."
night that this accords with the view
of the state department.
The president has not had an oppor
tunity to discuss with Secretary Lunging
the details of the case and therefore no
final decision has been reached as' to the
length of time the Appam will be al
lowed to remain in an American port.
Some oflieials agree with the German
contention that under the Prussian
treaty the prize crew can keep the liner
at Newport News until the end of the
war.
Two Bombs Were Placed at Door of Ar
.. mino Conte in Milwaukee.
Milwaukee. Wis., Feb. 7. The life of
Armino Conte, Italian consular agent
for Milwaukee, was imperilled by a
borub which exploded yesterday at the
door of his apartment on the seventh
floor of an east side building. He es
caned unhurt.
A second bomb, the fuse of which ha
evidently been extinguished after burn
ing for some time, was found near a
entrance on the ground floor. Both mis
ciles were covered with black oil-clot
and in the opinion of the police were
composed of composite, explosives. iN
metal was used in their construction.
Mr. Conte would neither allirrn nor
deny that he had received thrratenin
letters. The bomb placed at his door
did slight damage.
Portland, Me., Feb. 7. Ernest A. Gove
and his bride of a few weeks were burned
to death in a fire in a lodging-house
near the business center this morning.
A doeen other occupants of the, upper
stories of the building escaped by jump
ing from the windows or were carried
down the ladders.
Gove and his wife were both about
1! year of age. Mrs. Gove was one of
the first persons in the house to be
awakened by the fire and Bhe reached
the street , by rushing through smoke
filled hallways and down the stairsi
but when she reached the street she dis
covered that her husband was not among
those who had escaped from the build
ing. Mrs. (Jove then entered the build
Her
body was found in a hallway on the sec
ond floor, and twenty feet away lay the
body of her husband, w-ho evidently had
been overcome while groping his way
down the stairs.
The loss on the building and contents
was $'ZO,000,
LESS PEOPLE ON RIVER STREET.
Two Residents Sent to Increase County
Jail Ccnaus.
Two River street residents, accused of
furnishing liquor in violation of the stat
utes, were remanded to jail Saturday,
each for three months. Following closely
on the arraignment of .Joseph Bennett,
who pleaded guilty in the afternoon,
came the case of (i, Bert Wiggins, who is
said to have left River street under a
cloud earlier in the week. Chief Sinclair
struck out in search of Wiggins Satur
day forenoon and after leaving the Mont-
pelier & Wells River train at I-ancsboro,
the officer had his hands full in locating
Wiggins. The respondent was found a
last in a lumber camp.
Chief Sinclair brought the man to
Barre late in the evening and he wa
arraigned immediately before Magistrate
II. W. Scott. Upon the respondent s pica
of guilty, the county jail sentence was
imposed. iggins arrest grew out or a
disclosure made by a man named J.eon
ard. One night last week Officer John
W. Dineen saw a man coming toward
him with a bag thrown carelessly over
his shoulder. Glancing furtively, first at
the policeman and then at the river, the
man dumped' the bag into tlie stream
and made off. Officer Dineen gave chase
dentitled the bag man as Leonard, and
took him to police headquarters, where
he confessed to procuring beer of Wig
Kins. A search for Wiggins proved fu
tile, but Saturday a tip came to head
quarters that be was working in the
Lanesboro Iimberlost. Grand Juror W il-
iam Wishart represented the state and
the respondent appeared in court without
counsel.
Christian Hendrixson, who was arrest
ed Saturday night bv Officer David Hen
derson, pleaded guilty to a subsequent
offense in court this forenoon, disclosed
on the conventional "stranger" and was
sentenced to pay a $15 fine with costs of
$8.25 and to serve 20 days in the county
jail. Clarence Cutler, arrested by Chief
Sinclair Sunday evening, pleaded guilty
to a first offense and arranged to pay the
minimum fine and costs of ,.3j.
MAN WAS MADE
TPV QlPtf
Vt-Il UIUI
Malcolm McAulay Said to
Have Taken Too Much
Saltpeter
BARRE MANUFACTURER DEAD.
James McKernan, Sr, Had Been Sick for
15 Month?.
James McKernan, sr., a granite manu
facturer and member of the firm of Burre
Turning Works, died at his home, 78 Ma
ple avenue, yesterday afternoon at 5:40
o'clock after 15 months' illness with a
general breaking down. The funeral is
to be held at hia late home Tuesday
Structures Were All Wooden and the afternoon at 2 o'clock, and interment will
FOUR BUILDINGS AT
NORTH ADAMS BURNED
be in Hope cemetery.
Mr. McKernan was born in Aberdeen,
Scotland, April 12, 18f8, but came to the
United States when he was a young man
He remained for a short time m Vuincy
Mass., and came to Barre 22 years ago.
Loss is $75,000 Stores, Offices and
Lodging Rooms Burned Out.
North Adams, Mass., Feb. 7. Four ;
wooden buildings in the business see-
i- . , A,.. !A.7 .- 1 .4 -J
lion oi me my, oc-ciirwu n bioic im a ,lf Ilnr, oorl f ,llo
onices, wiin waging rooms on me upper , , . r.ranit. lo(1irp v. 3s v
wiui a Ha oi . Von u.au ,fe leAves to mourn llig logs hig wif(
ny propeny was t-numngereu. tue fc M Hewitt; one son, James
.nl nml I U til tlli hll I M I II Od I - J - - 1 f
w .w ..... i McKernan. ir of Barre: a daughter. Mrs.
at or near the corner ot Mam ana fcagie xlloma. namninr of r,.n.hridim. Mass.:
streets. 1 i,,.i,, u,n nf tii, tu,o. nt
nt OHIO V" trM P O o n.l li.rn.rj lk..
their belongings but nearly all the con- d(H!n Scotland; also his mother and four
lems oi me aiorea u unices nci
GR0T0N MAN BROUGHT
TO BARRE OSPITAL
V
His Cond- A This Morning
WySaid to Be
Critical
lost.
flames Spread by explosion.
Building at Norwood, Mass., Was De
stroyed, with Loss of $30,000.
Norwood. Mass.. Feb. 7. The J. P.
Murphy block, occupied bv various mer
cantile firms, at the comer of Day and
Washington streets, was destroyed last
night in the most serious fire that the
town has experienced in 20 years. The
flames started in the basement from
sister, the latter being Mary and Mrs
I Peter Taylor, residing, as does the moth
er, in Aberdeen, Mrs. illiam Shand in
Queensland, Australia, and Mrs, Frank
Rdwan in Glasgow, Scotland.
ANONYMOUS GIFT OF $1,000.
To Teachers' Retirement Fund Associa
tion Check Came Unsolicited.
CAME OF OLD FAMILY.
Mrs,
Martha Louisa Caldwell Died in
Waterbury Sunday.
Waterburv, Feb. 7. In the death o
VATICAN NOT INVESTING.
In American War Munitions Securities,
' Says Banrano.
Washington, D- C., Feb. 7. The mot
Key. John Banzano, apostolic delegate,
issued a statement la-t night denying
reports that the atican is investing in
American war munitions securities. The
statement also referred to reports that
the 131.1 budget of the Vatican closed
with a deficit of ,",( Kl.iK si and declares
that neither the revenues nor the ex
penditures reached such a sum.
SLIGHT WRECK ON C. V. R. R.
BASEBALL SUIT DISMISSED.
Sereral Cars Derailed Near St. Johas, P.
Q. Yesterday.
e-t. Aioan. rerx 4. train 2 on 1
the Central Vermont railr was In a
ftl.gbt wrerk near St. .1.hn. P. Q, rtm-
ixj-erled to get nn.U-r way in the ipnr.g 1 tenlsr rnorninu at l:3. trial earn to-
arxi that it i!l l com man led bv rfT-ir.jf traill. The d-ly b-tl for t
man officers. b a re ntak.ng prejara-' lir. Ttere w only 'i-!.t damare
I .oof at ContatiiK,p!e. to rvjv4 and e-ju-j MtL
Federal League Had Sued tfrganized Ball
Under Anti-trust Law.
Chicago. Feb. 7. The suit of the F.-d-eral
league against organized hall, which
n riled a year g uii'ler the anti trust
art. was dismissed to-!ar by Jmlge
Laindis of tlie United States circuit emrt.
neivy and Long-continned Earthquakes.
WaiiinsUn. D. C Feb. 7. Heavy
earth sbmka. di-tant lmt 4..?t mile'
fmm Vhintn. were revetted on the
i-nv-?Ti.t. at 'i t a nite:ity
jeterdjiT. Iirfinntrt; at 3:1 J p. ra., ai,l
rr.tau.r:2 unt.l 1 p. a.
Mrs. Martha Louisa Caldwell, which oc
curred at her home on Main street Sun
day evening of bronchial pneumonia fol
lowing the grippe, one of the ohlcr mem
bers of the community was taken as well
as the only descendant in town of one of
Wlaterbury's first settlers. She was born
in Waterbury Aug. 24, 18.17. the daughter
of Amasa and Polly (Hill) Pride, her
parents at that time keeping a hotel on
the site of the prVsent Waterbury inn
Mr. Pride owned large tracts of land
that vicinity. Ho was the first merchant
in town and with Daniel Carpenter and
Roswell Wells formed the "Meeting
House society" which built the Congre
gational church.
On her mother's side, Mrs. Caldwell
came of strong Revolutionary descent, her
grandfather being one of tn? "rort li
comlercga boys." For years Mrs. Cald
well had been an authority on town his
tory ami her keenness of intellect to the
last made her very interesting.
When she was 1 1 years of age, her
father built on the hotel site the house
which had since been her home, being re
moved a few years later across the
street. In she was married to Don
Carl Caldwell, who vied several years
ago. They bad three children, Mrs. W. J
Redmond of F.noi-burg Falls, who sur
vives the mother, and two sons. Fred and
Frank. the Caldwell twins." who died as
voung men. Besides the daughter, Mrs.
Caldwell is alwi survived by one grand
child. Mrs. James Perley Bovce of I'avs-
ton.
Mrs. Caldwell was an attendant at the
Congregational church and alnavs inter-
eted in its activities.
.Arrangements for the funeral have not
been completed.
Aa Efficient Idea.
lail.T How many tHkets ,n vour1
tre,-er?
Customer- ' Wily one. pl,ie; my mife
a l"ir unman and 1 want to avr
i,er time whew she jue through tem.
r-u)o Ccuti-T.
St. Johnsbury, Feb. 7. Miss Caroline
S. Woodruff, secretary of the Teachers'
Retirement Fund association, has an
muifirad the i.mf iif a elmd- fit- ftl .
n UnKnOWn CailSe, ami an eXpiOSIOn (00 i,l,i(.l, 0n,ni-mnil!r enntriliufed
spread them quickly through the entire toward tlie fllnd. fhe clle;.k was nso.
ouuuing. i iie ios is eaunmieu ai. Hcjted and the following note accom
panied it: "I am verv- glad to send the
enclosed check for the Teachers' Retire
ment Fund association. There are so
many societies here for uplifting and
making them model citizens of a great
republic, but I know of no association
IKK1.
Among the tenants were P. Lentras,
fruit dealer; t. Urary and company,
florists; Daniel O'Keefe, grocer; Bernard
Freeman, restaurant keeper; Karl An
derson, tailor; the Norfolk Real Kstate
company ana .). u. .viurpny, Dowung ana that begins to do this as well aa-the
billiards.. , UJ., ; the nnl.lle aclmnU "
Help was summoned from Dedham n..ri,i. f TerrMl nf rti-li,,.,fn.,
when it appeared that neighboring build- j(lpnt of the association, has announced
mgs were threatened. the foUowin,, committee to study the
retirement fund plans of other states
and prepare amendments to Vermont
state laws: Judge E. C. Mower of Bur
lington, chairman. Miss Caroline S.
Woodruff of Bradford, Redfield Proctor
of Proctor, Fred Ilnwland of Montpelier
A LANDMARK DESTROYED.
House Nearly 100 Years Old at Isle La
Motte, Burned.
Isle La Mot te, Feb. 7 Fire destroyed and Superintendent Locke of Rutland
any last evening the House owned Dy
Hiram Pike of Haverhill, Mass., occupied
by George Jarvis and family. The place
vss built nearly 100 years ago and was
one of the old landmarks of the island.
The cause of the fire is thought to have
lieen a defective chimney. Some Of the
contents were saved, and both contents
and house were partly insured. The fam
ily was away at the time.
Joseph Eddy built the houxe, which
was of wood, with a lining of brick. I
Lately it Had been rehuilt inside. I . Tl, mnnev will lie horrmved bv
Malcolm McAulay, n Groton woods
nmn, was brought to Barre over the M,
W. R. railroad this forenoon at 11:50
o'clock and was removed immediately
to the City hospital in an ambiilRuce.
Ho was accompanied by his physician
and members of the family, who stated
that he was suffering from the effect
of an overdose of saltpeter. At tlio
hospital it was found necessary to use
heroic measures to counteract the ef
fects of the stuff he had taken, although,
it is expected that the man will recover.
It was. stated that Mr. McAulay went
to a cupboard at his home in Groton.
yesterday ostensibly for the purpose of
taking a medicine, He found a bottlo
containing the saltpeter and mixed
therefrom a copious dilution of the salt,
A short time afterward he complained
of illness and a physician was hurried
ly summoned.
As night came on his condition grew
steadily worse and before morning cam
he was in a critical condition. Early
to-day the Groton doctor communicated
with the City hospital here and a rescr-
ation was made for the man. He stood
the ordeal of the train journey well and
unless unlooked for complications devel
op, it ' is thought that his recovery is
assured. McAulay is a sinirle man and
as been a resident of Groton for soma
time. Formerly he was employed as a
quarry worker in Barre Town and has
relatives residing in Graniteville and
this city.
IS NOW SOLE OWNER.
Thomas J. Mercer Buys E. J. Lander's
Interest in the Baltimore.
A dissolution of partnership in tha
firm of Mercer & lender took plaee to
day when Thomas J. Mercer became the
sole proprietor of the Baltimore cafe,
purchasing the half-interest held bv Ed-
son J. Lander. The deal became effective
at once. Hereafter M. Mercer, while
continuing the same policy pursued in
the past, will have entire charge of thn
business. Mr. Lander will take a much
needed rest before embarking on a bus
iness career again.
Mercer fe Lander purchased the Balti-
more of G. L. Woodworth in September,
1!)14. At that time thev took over a
lunch business that was established by
Mr. Woodworth before the basement of
the Durkee block had been subjected to
radical alterations. The history vof the
Baltimore is the history of a popular,
little eating house where business men,
farmers, ''drummers," and. most every
body who indulges in the favorite indoor
pastime of eating have been wont to hob
nob each day at the lunch hour or in tha
evening. In the future, Mr. Mercer
states, it will be hia aim to cater to tha
same classes of epicureans who have fre
quented the Baltimore in the past.
SHOT HIMSELF IN HEART.
BORROWS MONEY CHEAPLY.
Rutland Gets $15,000 from Farmers Loan
and Trust Co. at 3 Per Cent.
Rutland, Feb. 7. City Treasurer Will
L. Davis has arranged to borrow $15.-
000 from the Farmers Loan and Trust j pgtolIi.c in Gardner, Mas.,'
company of ew iork at J per cent,
the money to be used in anticipation of
the
was the home of Ezra Fleury and from oitv bv authority of. a resolution a'dopt-
ed at a recent meeting of the board of
aldermen, which gave the mayor and
city treasurer the right to borrow $15,
000 in anticipation of taxes to be col
lected next fall, the note or notes given
to be payable Oct. 20, 1916, and a rate
of intercHt not to exceed 6 per cent.
City Treasurer Davis ankcd for bids
the house Captain A. S. Fleury, who was
well known throughout the- state for
his lectures on Liberty prison, went
away to serve in the Livu war when
only 15.
THREE DEAD IN ROW.
Man Shot Girl He Loved, Her Male Com
panion and Then Himself.
New York. Fab. 7. Herbert Shadier,
2H vesrs old. last night shot Miss Mary
McNeil, IS years old, killed Oscar John
son, sit years oki, w no naa escorteil her
to her home from a reception, and then
committed suicide. According to the po-
iee. Shadier was an admirer of Miss Mc
Neil, who spurned his attentions when
she learned he was married.
Miss McNeil died a few hours after
being taken to the bopital.
ANOTHER ARMED LINER
Has Arrived at New York Carrying Ital
ian Colors.
Earl Holt, a Suicide at Putney; Had
Previously Tried It.
Putney, Feb. 7. The body of Earl
Holt, who hot himself through the
heart with a rillo Saturday evening in
the home of his sinter. Mrs. Henry Frost
of East Putney, will be sent to Concord,
N. H., for burial.
Mr. Frost said yesterday that Holt,
wlirt was in a highly nervous condition
for some time, tried to cut his throat
a month ago, but was stopped by rela
tives. The young man feared that ho
would lie committed to an in-sane asyl
um. He formerly was employed in tha
which
(.Hear
city his parents, Mr.
Holt, live.
and Mrs.
CAMBRIA STEEL MERGED.
Largest Independent Concern Acquired
By Midvale Co.
Philadelphia, Feb. 7. The control of
the Cambria Steel company, one of the
largest independent steel corporations,
has been purchased by the Midvale Steel
U!,.!..i i w.i ......... ,.f ii.;i..i.,i..;,.
or proposals, as is his uMial custom and - , : , '
he was surprised Saturday morning to
get the offer of the money at the low
rate.
HAS VILLAGE WATER AGAIN.
Swanton Again Drawing Supply from
Fairfield Pond.
Swanton. Feb. 7. The village of
Swanton which, sirn-e January 21, has
lieen without tlie village water supply
to-day by W. II. Donner, president of
the Cambria company.
A $50,000 CORPORATION.
Has Been Organized to Manufacture Pen
holders, Etc, at Putney.
Articles of association were filed at
the secretary of state's office in Mont
mdier to-day for the C. E. Bradley eor-
Wause of a break in the main under i p,-,r, t j,,,,, organized to manufacture pen
the Missisqimi riv. r is apain supplied ! bolder, hon-ehold roods, etc.. at Itit-
from Fairfield pond, the water having I nPV jhf r,,ital slock is a.Vl.um. di-
bcen turned on ye.ter.Iay noon alter rjljr.j jnto 3,1,1 shares, half preferred an i
the break had be-n repaired. In the ! n,if Trtni.n. The incorporators are Ir.
meantime tin- people have lieen uing!wjn - Bradley and Franklin V. Bradb t,
water frxm the riter. - Ihoth of Putney, and Handd C. Whitney
When the main b.'oke it wa discov
ered that the trouble was under twelte
feet of water. A diver. harles Pabrino.
New York. Feb. 7. The Italian steam
cr Stampwlia arrived ye-tenla v from Oeii'
w..i. ..t.. .ire Kun" a ,,,.rl,t,.n located the Kre.k Tl,.
mounted on her alter derk. She is th ; " p . k. .... -
fifth Italian steamer to come int- this
port annen in setrn weens.
Collector Mslone reports the arrival
f the ether steamer., to the treaurr
lei.artment at Washington and rer-itel ; We olten !i
ti actions w rive t!ra leiD i-a- tw!
J-Cl s.
iof Brattlel-.ro.
Appointments in Probate Court.
In pri.lnte court at Motitpe!ir to-day,
C) srle U. W i-!:rt of Barre wa ap
iw.irle.l amiiiiii-trater of tie e-tate of
Krme11l.n l .iid la. latr- of lUrre. Mf.
ard t?-e wrntr en r Is. ' i ..ra K. Marin of Barre wa aj point- I
sometime it K r-n that war t- wr-'.an oi' N"t. n A.. 'onta:i-e M
li friendship. Kaoas City Journal, and Coriiiiie X Martin, ma.oi.
water was very nisii mil a ta't was
jennatructed and the pipe wa re U, L
Avoid This.
