N
FULL LEASED
WIRE DISPATCHES
.
V
fj
I s -i- mnnf rf l mTAT in
OVER 4000 DAILY
'Ay?
THIRTY-EIGHTH YEAR
SALEM, OREGON, MONDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1916
PUIPT TVVn r'Ti'MTC! 0N TRAILS AND NEW
AVlUJCi X V J Vjllill lo STANDS FTVF 0KNT9
(
RUMANIA PREPARING
TO HIKE li WAR
Turk and Bulgar Forces Are
Order to Meet Threatened
Berlin Reports State That Overcrowding and Severity of
Winter Weather Is Stamping Great White Plague Upon
Russian Prison CampsAmerican Nurses Fear Plague
Will Sweep Empire
London, Feb. 7. While Rumania continues her appar
ent preparations to plunge into the war struggle, Bulgar
and Turk forces are moving on the Rumanian border to
meet the concentration move there, said Milan messages
today.
From another source, it was reported that the central
powers had demanded a partial Rumanian demobilization,
along with a pledge of benevolent neutrality toward the
Teutons. This, it was said, was ignored.
Newspapers here dealt at length with the situation
today, and corroborated exclusive United Press dis
patches Saturday showing Rumanian activities that lead
to the belief that Rumania intends soon to link herself
with the allies. From the Milan correspondent of the
Chronicle came a report that the central powers have pro
tested against the sale by Rumania of 80,000 carloads of
grain to the allies. Rumania, it was stated, replied that
this move was necessary to safeguard her economic in
terests. From this statement, it is believed Rumania is
convinced that the. allies might be in a position to deal
harshly with her if she did not meet their desires.
Yet another report of the situation said that Austria
had protested against the nomination of two Rumanian
parliament candidates pledged to acquisition of Transyl
vania.
Sudden Rumanian concentration within fifty yards of
the Austrian lines was reported by the Chronicle's Mar
monitz correspondent.
Berlin, Feb. 7. Overcrowding, coup
led with the severity of the Russian
winter, is stamping the great white
plague upon the prison camps of Rus
sia. Miss Louise AYarneckp, of Hartford.
Conn., and Miss T.ouise Koshert, of
Wheeling, W. Va., Red Cross nurses re
turning to America after several weeks
among the ISlav camps, reported to Am
bassador (lerard that this plague will
sntVp the .Muscovite empire, unless
measures are taken to stop the spread
of tuberculosis in the camps,
Russia has refused permission for
rontiniinnce of tho Red Cross relief
. i rapidly this afternoon, rivermen pre-
, . ! dii'ted that no great damage will re-
flmrlrpcf Jnaur tin Rornrrl'suit.
i Miviivvi lliuil VII IIVWVIH
Has Made Torrents of
Many Oregon Streams
i,.,-fi,.tt.i r,- Vivi, " r.nn..nA i
, . V ",i
llli v a game of see saw no di,.!:
astrou, floods were anticipated as a
Abo Martin
GOrEfr.
Among th' other things a feller
gits t' bWievin' after he rounded
utty i? that ever' girl he remembers
rturin his young manhood witr. an
ole sweetheart o' his'n. I.afe Bud
has a gns mask t' wear in crowded in
terurban cars.
pfy
rontier In
Enemy-
work, so the entire unit of workers is
returning to the L'nited States.
Durazzo Threatened.
Rome, Feb. 7. The Albanian port of
Dnrazzo is threatened by early Austrian
occupation.
Austrian cavalry has reached the Ar
sseni river four miles away, according
to dispatches today, and this group is
awaiting the arrival of the main body
of Austrians who crossed the Ishmi Sun
day after defeating the Serbs. The lat
ter arc retiring southward to escape
envelopment by the Bulgarians at El
bnssan. result of the quick thaw which follow
ed the unusually heavy snowstorms of
the past month.
Although the upper Willamette was
! on a ramp.ige, had passed the flood
I stage at nany points, and was rising
The thaw melted snow chiefly in the
valleys. The channel of the Willam
ette river can easily carry away all this
water, because the Columbia river is
low and a swift current is running.
fly the time floods strike the Colum
bia, the Willamette torrent will have
stiumt'H, n was preiucieii.
Water will cover the lower docks in
Moving Towai
Attack From I
Mrs: m.M. after-1
if. , TVi",, a .Tt'nV,mon'n. ttt? ""I01"1 that she had pre-
....,. UL i
feet by Thursday was predicted by the
I weather bureau. Itiver bottom farms
i throughout tne entire vnlley will be
flooded, but they meet this fate every
yea r.
Three warnings were issued by the
local weather bureau today. They wre
against high water along the' river
front, avalanches in the mountains and
a storm off the Oregon coast which
may endanger small craft,
i, , , . i
Schools were opened in Portland to-!
day for the first time since last Tries
day when the snow and sleet storm
forced them to close.
The quickest thaw on record strik
ing one of the heaviest snows on record
was expected to bring unprecedented
floods.
From the headwaters to the mouth of
the Willamette x rapid thaw and rising
waters were reported. At Hoscburg the
I mpqua was said to be on a rampago.
At Canyonville the mountain streams
were running back full.
Outside of the Willamette vnllev the
fiaw was uot so ranid. Great 'tm.
nge to fruit trees was feared at Hood
Kiver. where sleet fell heavilv durine i
the night on top of 36 inches 'of snow,
Hirli Water At Eugene.
Kueene, Or., Feb. 7. The Willam
ette river spreads out for neailv a mile
opposite Kugene today. With" a total
precipitation of 2.5 inches in 30 hours
the river is seven feet jbove flood
stage u.iay nnri still rising. The high
et point of the flood is expected this
afternoon. The ram has ceased. Some)
'""'"f "Turieq io larms along
the river bottoms, but farmers were,
prepared for floods and the suffering
is comparatively slight. I
YANKEE TOILERS
v V 1 I
MRS
WALDORF
ASTOR- at.
, son wjaiAM
New York, Feb. 7 Tlie contributions
of American workers to British war
funds have bought a baronial title for
William Waldorf Astor, expatriated
American.
Astor is the son of John Jacob Astor,
the first. He has a arm, Waldorf As
tor, and a grandson, William, aged 7,
who would rather be called "Hill."
The latter 's mother was formerly Miss
.Nellie Langliorne, one of a family of i
girls whose beauty was made famousj
by the pencil of Charles Dana Gibson.
CHISEL FOUND AT
I
Dark Stains Will Be Analyzed
i by Chemist For Traces
of Blood
A heavy, dark stained chisel w'.iich
was found in one of the upstairs rooms
of the J. R. Hinklo residence is in the
tossession of the police today and is
the only new development in the mur
der mystery that has apparently baf
fled the local officers. The chisel is
one of the kind used by wood workers
and is about IS inches long with the
wooden handle and is one and one
fourth inches wide. The blade is stain
ed with rust anil some of the darker
stains ire red as coagulated blood.
These stains could easily be rust and
the chisel may be discarded-as a clue
after an examination by a chemist.
AH other chics that have been of
fered md the various theories that
have been advanced have been run to
eartn and found to lead to no defin
ite conclusion except that the deed was1 buildings and munitions factories
committed by someone who was famil-j s'ce the wlice found plans of the par
iar with the premises and who was' liament buildings and several harbors
evidently recognized by the murdered
woman. ,
narea tor ncr itinera . H ie hm ni-An I
pinned a note fo tlc Rarinent giving
full directions for tiie funeral with the have been received by oi'.fcers of the
request that the shroud bo used for herIM)l'''t.v tlie newspaprs. During the
at her death. It happens that she had ! niasriueralp, the dancers were guarded
just recently finished the making of
the garment. She had been sufh-.inir
from a slight illness for some time and
had been under tho doctor's care re
peatedly according to intimate friends
of the family.
- . it. ucniiu aim iiaiur-
ally frail discounts the theory th it she
lliat she was in ill health and natur-
fought for her life with her assailant
There were no marks on her hands or
arms to indicate titat she even threw
up her arms to ward off the plows ami
it is probable that she wis felled by
the first blow and the others rained
on her head after sho was Iving on tho
floor.
At the coroner's inquest which was
held Saturday afternoon no new fea
tures came to light and the story as
sold by the witnesses was substantial
ly the same as outlined in the news
stories. The members of the family
and close neighbors testified as to
events which tok Placo ft" the mur
der was discovered but any clues that
might lead the police to the guiltv
parties were missing.
The husband of the murdered wo
man, J. R. Hiuklc, said he left, the
house about 7 o'clock in the evening
and went over to the home of his son
in-law for a few minutes before going
down town. lie returned about fl
o'clock and found his totise dark and
the front door locked, lie then went
to the rear door which he also found
1Mked. Thinking that his wife had
(Continued on Pa Tore.)
BUY TITLE FOR EXPATRIATED LANDLORD
VW.K - .'
Will '
While son Bill is in line of succession
for a baron's coronet, he makes no se
cret of the fuct that ho would prefer
to be a ball player like Ty Cobb.
Astor is immensely wealthy through
the ownership of ancertral land in New
York city. He left his native land in
lrt'.H), vowing never to return, but the
growth of population in New York has
much more than doubled the value of
his holdings, while he was three
thousand miles away hobnobbing with
nobility.
RUMOR OF NEW PLOTS
CA USES CANADIAN OF
FICIALS TAKE ACTION
Ottawa, Out., Feb. 7 Sensational re
ports of new plots against Canada
were in circulation today as parliament
prepared to assemble to discuss fires
that de-itroyed the parliament build
ings and two plants last week.
Lending strength to the belief that
spies .ire operating in Canada came
word today that a supposed plotter
had been fired on as he rowed toward
the international bridge connecting tho
United (States and Bridgeburg, Ontario.
This, taken with other recent suspicious
incidents, added to the spirit of appre
hension here.
Tim Ninth Overseas battalion of
1150 men arrived today at the Welland
canal to reinforce two regiments al
ready guarding the canal and munition
plants there. This added precaution
was taken as a result of rumors of a
plot to destroy tho canal
At the same
time, tho military replaced civilian
guards at tlie plants, sentries were,
placed at public buildings and a con-J
tinuons guard will be maintained for,
the canal and bridges.
The existence of plots to wreck pub-
the trunk of a German named
Sciiweiber, who wrote from tho socic-!
ty 's annual masquerade ball Haturday
"JK" an.i to uynaimte tde nan .lose.
.Mcrcury-neraid unless it nnntci tne
threat. A dozen threatening letters
l,J policemen in plain clothes, who
held up all persons carrying bundles
or suitcases.
The police, however, would not con
firm the story concerning the maps,
and ti.e manager of the hotel where
the trunk was left, denied the cliim,
saying that only a few letters in Ger
man and some clothes were contained.
Despite all of these suspicious oc
currences, it was expected that Pre
mier ISorden would express the convic
tion that the parliament fire was ac
cidental. Bridge Are Guarded.
New York, Feb. 7. Ifaliee authori
ties declined today to iveal specific
reasons why they bad been asked to
place guards at the Brooklyn and the
Manhattan bridges -as the cruiser
Washington steamed in from Jliiti yes
terday. The only suggestion was that
this was to guard (gainst possible
bombs being thrown from the two
structures as sho passed beneath, but
they would not sav whether they had
actual knowledge that such an attempt
was planned.
Suspicious Action!
Bridgeport, Ont.. Feb. 7. Another
development in the alleged anti-ally
plotting against bridges, munition
plants and public buiklinga in Canada
was seen today when J. man in a row
bout was reported to have approached
a pier of the international bridge
spanning the Niagarft river between
I'.ridgcburg and ltulf.'ilo. i
BAROfJ
ASTOR
New York 's annual tribute in ground
rent to tho new made baron is estimat
ed at three million and nearly a mil
lion" of this goes to the British gov
ernment in special war tax on income.
His loyalty to the .country of his adop
tion in its present crisis won for Astor
what years of watchful waiting had
failed to bring, nud that was a se.it in
the House of Lords.
American dollars also purchased for
him the estate of Cliveden, Prom the
Duke of Westminister, for $ii,000,000.
Thus he becomes the first American
landed aristocrat to wear a title. He
had to leivo America for tho title, but
tho income that supnorts it is still
sent willingly ahroail by the thousnnds
of Americans who toil mid hustle on
tho ancestral Astor lands in New York
city.
The man in the boat pulled to the
American Bide aud escaped after the
guards had fired on li i in. As a precau
tion, the number of guards has been
increased.
Governor Johnson
Is Still Progressive
Sacramento, Cal., Feb. 7. At his of
fice today liovernor Johnson issued a
written statement that is quite signifi
cant politically.
"I do not abate one jot my progress
ivism," he wrote, "nor shall I.
"At Chicago in June when tho re
publicans and progressives assemble
for their national conventions, if they
can meet upon a common ground and
select a candidate in svmpathy with
progressive principles, 1 assume they
will unite and go forward together.
$
A case of smallpox was dis
covered at the peintentinry yes
terday morning and about" 40
prisoners who had been ex
posed to the malady were im
mediately vaccinated and tho
case was isolated in the prison
hospital. Tho disease was
brought to the prison by I.afe
Wilson, a pnrolcd prisoner who
was returned from Albany about
two weeks ago after he had
been exposed on tho outside.
Prison officials stated today
that there was uo cause for
alarm as the ease was taken
care of at once and that it did
-not originate from the inside
and that it wns believed that an
epidemic would be averted by
the prompt action. Visitors
who come to the prison are in
formed of the conditions and if
they care to take the risk are
still shown about the prison mid
The prison is not under strict
quarantine.
t THE WEATHER
Oregon: Tonight
aud Tuesday rain
ami colder to
night; and strong
winds from the
south in interior,
moderate south
westerly gales all
nlnng the coast;
dangerous avalan
ches in the moun
tains probable the
next 24 hours.
THIS IS
AMERICAN DEMANDS
E NOT BEEN CHANGED
Secretary of State Lansing Makes Denial of Report IssceJ
by Secretary Zimmerman at Berlin Position of This
Government Same As First Taken He DeclaresPresi
dent and Secretary Will Confer As To Advisability cf
Making Concessions In Order to Meet German View cf
Lusitania Incident
Washington, Feb. 7. The statement attributed to
Under Secretary Zimmerman at Berlin, that America had
increased its demands in the Lusitania case, was called
false by Secretary of State Lansing today.
"The government has not increased its demands as set
forth in the notes of May 13, June 9 and July 21," Lansing
said. "I doubt very much if Zimmerman ever made such
a statement as he must know it is utterly false."
The secretary had prepared a statement saying, "this
government has not increased or reduced its demands."
Before continuing, he explained that he wished to with
draw the "or reduced'' portion as irrelevant.
His statements were appropos of a news agency quota
tion of Zimmerman as saying Friday: "I do not under
stand America's course. We thought the submarine is
sue was settled and the Lusitania question on the way to
an arrangement we had agreed to pay an indemnity and
all that when the United States suddenly made its new
demands which it is impossible for us to accept.
"You must not push your demands too far. You must
not attempt to humiliate Germany."
The secretary's announcement gave the Lusitania con
troversy a sensational turn. Many held that the flat
declaration that this government has not reduced its de
mands bodes ill for German hopes that the administra
tion might meet compromise offers half way.
Washington, Feb. 7. Whether tho
United States government shall make
a compromise to . meet tho German
compromise in the Lusituniu situation
wis slated for decision at a White
House conference today between Presi
dent Wilson and Hccrctnry of State
Lansing. .
German representatives intimated
today that tho Hcrlin foreign office
has made several concessions and this
apparently constitutes an important
Uu-tor in tho case.
iSecrctary Lansing, however, has tie
ulared that tho "American situation
remains unchanged" from that taken
in the note demanding Germany disa
vow tiie Lusitania torpedoing ami to
characterize it as illegal. Moreover,
the Whito House has said the same
thing insistently.
In view of the seeming deadlock in
negotiations, officials are impressed
with tho gravity of tho situation, de
spite Lansing's stntement Saturday to
tho United Press "there can be no
deadlock as long as informal negotia
tions continue."
It is known that the president has
gono over the moinorandiim liernstorff
presented last week. He talked briefly
over the phono with Lansing prvious
to the scheduled conference, and it is
understood ho expected Lansing to
have tho whole matter in shape for de
cisive action following the conference.
The only White House expression ob
tainable before tho conference was:
"There will be no quibbling over
PORTLAND LAWYER
Joseph N. Teal Will Refute
Certain Charges of Mis
conduct at Hearing
Washington, Feb. 7. Joseph Teal,
Portland attorney, indicated today he
oxpects to refuto charges of miscon
duct slated to bo made against Louis D.
Itrandeis, President Wilson's choice
for the supremo court bench, when sen
ate committee hearings opeif'Wcdnes
day. i
Particularly Teal will attempt to dis
credit the reported claim of Clifford
Thorne, Iowa railroad commissioner,
th it Itrandeis "threw the western
rnilway rate rase to the railways"
at President Wilson's insistence.
According, to the story Thome's
friends tell, Thorne intends to claim
llrnndeis threw the case, believing the
president would suffer politically if the
railroads were not given tho increase,
particularly at a time when prosperity
was not at full tide.
"Iliandeis' letter of employment
from tho interstate commerce commis
sion shows that they retained him as an
expert, and not to advocate either
side," said Teal today. "There is no
more reason for criticising hi action
than there would be to criticise an at
words and there has been none."
It is known that the White Houso is
impatient at German activities in re
porting that differences between tho
two nations is only a matter of phras
ing, but it is not determined whether
there will be a rebuke at such a course.
"Certain Germans have been very
diligent," was the phrnso one official
used in discussing these German activ
ities. Tho German embassy said it had no
knowledge about tho alleged Zimmer
man interview.
"We do not know whether he said tt
or why, if ho did," an official said.
"Maybe he gave it out just as some
'crisis' rumors aro put out here."
Germans say that tentative propos
als for closing up the Lusitaniu case
embody so complete a concession on
Germany's part that a compromise by
America will not be necessary. They
said that in effect, the latest German
memorandum contains a paraphrase of
President Wilson's declaration in his
last note,- that however, justifiable the
sinking might have been as a reprisal
step, it was not justifiable when it en
dangered tho rights of neutrals. More
over, Germans said that the paraphrase
offers a complete agreement with the
American viewpoint.
During tho forenoon, Chairman
Stone after talking with President Wil
son said: "The Lusitania case seems
settled according to the newspapers."
Ho did not, however, Indicate his own
opinion.
torney whom you had engaged to ex
amine a title and who informed you of
facts that would both prove and dis
prove your contention."
Teal was engaged to watch the case
for coast shippers. In this capacity, ha
was allied with Thorne.
(juite an array of witnesses had been
mustered against Itrandeis. One of the
charges will lie that he "played both,
sides" in a Boston case. Again, ha
will be accused of drawing legal docn
meats for the United Shoe Machinery
company ami then taking x casa
ngainst the company for a St. Louis
firm.
The party lineup is Vi democrats and
40 republicans. Fight or nine of tha
republicans, at least, will be for tha
confirmation of tho "people's lawyer"
as Itrandeis is known. Starting really
with 31 or 32 votes, the republicans
must align 10 or 17 democrats to maka
a tie.
To win, Itrandeis must have a clear
majority 49, and Vice-President )t irsh
ull has no vote. . , . .. .
-Thome is expected to state to tha
hearing that Itrandeis' statement timt
the railroads needed monoy was made
it Wilson's request. According to
Thorne, Itrandeis believed the futura
of Wilson's political career was men-,
aced by lack of railroad prosperity.
.
.
BEAT MUTES SIVO
fit. Louis, Mo., Teb. 7. In the
sign language,. oue hundred def
mutes "snug" "Nearer My
God to Thee" at the funeral of
an instructor.
