u
'vv FF "iP ''VFyjr v r r? '(?i!i-5c
GERMAN RAIDER . CAPTURED BY. BRITISH
ftln or snow tenlght Thursday oloudi coldsr.
HMML
corov
1 "Circulation Hooka Open to All."
Circulation BookaOpcn to All."
PRICE ONE CENT.
lopjriitit, 11)10, br The I'm I'nbltthtig
Co. (The Kew York World).
NEW YORK, WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 1916.
16 PAGES
S PRICE ONE CENT.
CRUISER!
SUBWAY
BAFFS SLAYERS
RILL STORY
Another of New
DRIVER OF MURDER CAR ELS
Mysteries Solved Members of
"Poultry Trust" Who Paid $200
for Death of Baff Known.
The most baffling of New York's recent murder mysteries was
solved to-day when detectives arrested the man who drove the automobile
.which carried away the two assassins who shot Darnet Baff, the poultry
merchant, in West Washington Market on Nov. 24, 1914.
The prisoner is Frank Fcrrarj, a plumber, of No. 224 East One
Hundred and Seventh Street. He has given the names of the two men
whoctualiy killed Baff, the name of the man who paid fgopJpT the
" inutder, ft lid life names of others implicated In the'piot'to put Baff out
of the way. The deleclives expect
The 'automobile used by the usa-e
Bins In making their cutaway was
elred by tbo police to-day. Dutec
tlve Levitt found tho J$3E6SJMS,4fn',
ego at No. -135 Kost One HundreUjatrtJ
Fourth Street.
Tho plotters did not even take tho
troublo to repaint tho ear after tho
llaff murder. It Is a sovcn-pasHcngor
1908 Flat, painted a llsbt brown. The
condition of tho ongtno and machin
ery when It was found to:day showed
that It has not been tided for home
time. Porsons who wltncKsed tho
murder and flight of the nswixKlnsi wlil
to summoned to I'oln-o llcad(Uiirlci
to Identify tho car.
'Tliu U:irnut Half rimi has been th
nightmare uf the rlli-o Oepartment
for eighteen months. Tim original
theory wua that Huff, who hml been
fighting the "l'oultry Trimt" and tbo t
Chlokcn Vullcr' Union, wan kllleu ny
habltuea Of tho West Washington
Market region. Thla theory was die-
-- ii,i,i. 1
ron ;ok and ho e .0. ..nany "r In Virginia a k rt tho hem
acamo to tho conclusion that tho kill- f w' 13 '' than four Inches
?""wa dona by JilrwlowaMln. from' to ground No woman can
,ns., . , ". I wear .1 whirtwalst or evening gown
""toon clue 'wuL the number of ' more than three Inches of
th?automohllo into which tho assae- h" ' d " ' t pro
Ins leaped after they had shot Haft lleJ that no woman ahall wear
i .h.; ,lffht-cif scores of people I a waist or a skirt of transpar-
nd almost within reaching distance
of special guards who had been hired
to protect the poultry dealer. That
r.lue led persistently to Harlem's
Little Italy und tlnally to tho vicinity
of One Hundred and Klghth Street
and Second Avenue, tho hoart or a
district In which a doicn men have
teen assassinated In tho past four
years.
f200 TO PUT BAFF OUT OF THE
WAY.
There tho detectives dnlvod and
irept for ovldcnco and there they got
tbelr lino on Ferrara. That young
man had forgotten about the Halt
murder. A11 ,ho published statcmentu
about the case had shown that tho
police were following false cluos. Ho
felt quite securo from tho police, but
not so seciiro from tho men who hud
purchased the murder of Jlaff.
Several persons who knew tho in
side history of tho H;ifT assassination
sad been mysteriously killed. Ap
parently the theory "dead men tell u
tales" was seriously entertained by
tho clique that sent Bait out of tl.o
world at an expenditure or
ferrara was so thoroughly surprised
(Continued on Second Page.)
Clrrk !)ro Ilrnil on I'urU Iton,
William Itutscl, sixty, u mulling
clerk employed by tlm Union Trust
Company. No. SO Uroudwuy, icji cloud
aj he was crossing- 1'ark Kuw, oppo
site tho I'ost-Offlce, at noon. IttiKsel
reported to his superiors that ho writ
III .and started homo at 11 o'clock. IIu
was alngla and lived at No. 313 Last
rift-elghth Btroet.
i
AS FREEDMAIN'S
HUN DOWN
OF OLD CRIME
York's Big Murder
to make a complete roundup fcetore
Inlroduces Dill Putting Legal
Limit on Ankle and
Neck Display.
mCHMON'D, Vn.. Feb. P.-To "pro
teet tho men of Virginia" from the
I corrupting effects of modem fash
ion. Capt. W. M. Myers of Itlch-
mond to-day Introduced a bill In the
i Statu Legislature to regulate worn
I cn'H clothes. "
" lnu 1)111 "ocome.i law no woman
c ,!rla,1' . (
Introducing this
bill, J want to
drive from tho street tho sights dla-
played by sllhouotto gowns, less de
cent than uctual nudity," said Capt.
Myers, "Thoy tend to destroy and
corrupt publlo morals,"
INDICTMENT AGAINST
MRS, WHITNEY WARREN
Architect's Wife Pleads Not Guilty
of Charge of False Declaration
on Imported Gowns.
Charlotte A. Warren, wife of Whit
ney Warren, tho architect, of No. 23
Kust Forty-seventh Street, was In
dieted to-daj by the Federal Grand
Jury for violation of the Federal laws
In nn ulleged raise declaration on
wearing apparel which she brought
from Frunco on Nov. 15 last.
Fifteen minutes after tho filing of
tho Indictment Airs. Warren, accom
panted by roundel, appeared bofote
Judf, Cluyton in the Criminal Ilraneii
of the iMilcrul Dl-urlct Court and
ciileii-l u tt-ntathe pleu bf not g.illty.
' She wan lele.isi'd on bail ol 2,Siu.
The Indictment sla'.cs that when
, Mr. H'.incn ariived on thu IJspagne
s:ie miiuH ,i raisi! niaiement In plne
Im; a uliiallon (if J1.000 on certain
wn.ii-lng apparel, and that h'io tnal
nnyllioi false statement to an In
sjiectoi iciurdtiif, three gownt wit. eh
she Haiti slu' liid brought Into tho
United KtulfB at a previous date.
Mrs. Warrent asserted that sho had
already paid duty on them.
GRAFT HUNT IS BLOCKED
LUSITANIA CASE
PUT UP 10 BERLIN
Complete Settlement Only
Awaits the Formal Approval
of German Government.
PREPAREDNESS NOW UP.
Wilson Turns From Foreign
Complications to Work on
Plans for Defense.
By Samuel M. Williams.
(8piclal Staff Correspondent of Th
Evening World.)
WASHINGTON, Feb. 9. For three
or four days thero will bo a cessation
of negotiations on the sinking of the
Lusltanla. Secretary of Btate Lans
ing said to-ly that everything would
remain In status quo while Ambassa
dor von UcrnstorfT was commualcat-
Jnjt.wlth his homft.sovcrnmcntJoT,af
euro approval of tho terms agreed
upon hero In Washington.
It haa been arranged by tho State
Department that the formal proceed
ings shall consist of a note to bo nd
dressed by Count von Hernstorff to
Socretary Lansing giving nn answer,
to jho.Uvt.Lusltnnla'TtotCs'ont bV"tn":s
Government. In doing so tho Am
bassador will repeat tho substance of
his pladgcs given uftcr tho Arabic waa
sunk that warning will bo given to
passenger liners before bolng tor
pedoed and also will embody the
agreements that havo been reached
verbally as to substitutes for tho
words "disavowal" and "illegal."
When this note Is received at tho
State Department Secretary Lansing
will write a formal reply accepting
the German proposals. This exchange
i.t expected to tako place about tho
beginning of nrxt week.
One of the changes in the Lusi-
tania agreement suuueated by
Secretary Lansinn to Count von
Bermtorff, it the substitution of
the words "recognizes liability"
for the words "assumes liability"
which wore employed in the ten
tative draft.
With Lusltanla complications out of
tho woy, President Wilson to-day
turned his attention to other affairs
of state. Ho haa on hand threo
paramount subjects of domestic con
cernpreparedness, tariff commission
and Increased national revenues.
Ho worked ut top speed to-day try
ing to clear his desk of all minor
affairs.
Tho Wbito House was the busiest
placo In town this morning. Senators,
Congressmen and visiting delegations
besieged tho President In his office.
Atlanta, Dallas and even Lincoln,
Neb., sent committees urging him to
make another spcuking tour and visit
them. Mr. Wilson wus not encourag
ing In his response. The contem
plated tour Is ntlll very uncertain.
Tho strangest political visit to tho
executive otllcos was a delegation of
Illinois Republicans, led bv that gen
eral of reactionaries, Representative
William 11. McKinley.
"We Iiuvb Just one Democrat In the
lot," nM McKinley, "but theso others
uro ii. ynstltueuts who want to pay
their respects to tho President, and
Mr. Wilson received them in rare
good humor."
Tho President has not yet decided
That kind of a military preparedness
bill will bo presented In Congress. Ho
spoke of tho continental army scheme
o.. his Western tour, but addod that
tho details w re yet to be worked
out. Thl is his Hist tusk, and 1;
will euiixult wit, i rummlttee and
leading membei . uf both Houses uf
Congress to hit upon sumo scheme
that will bo both practical and as
sured of support.
Tho tarllf commission scheme Is his
next subject. Ho nunts to put that
through Congress before Juno and
hopes' that it will lie tho popular antl
rtste for thu high tarllf clamor of the
Tlpubllrans.
F FINAL MOVE
German Cruiser Roon Which Is Reported
Captured by British Cruiser Drake
i. , ,
ti
V
'V
"i '
GERMAN RAIDER ROON
BRITISH CRUISER DRAKE!
Three-Hour Battle Before the Kaiser's
Warship That Caught the
Appam Surrendered.
Following a report published Sunday that a wireless despatch had been
received by tho IlrltlBh Embassy Saturday aftornoon tolling of tho enpturo
of tho German cruiser lloon by tho Hritlsh cruiser Drako, tho Globo thla
afternoon publishes a despatch which,
from an unnamed but responsible currcbpiindcnt, Riving dotnllB of tho cap- j
lure.
According to this report two merelintit vessels, uno of them armod us
wna tho Mocwe, which captured tho Appam and sank scvou other vessels
off (ho coast of Africa, vcrn also captured by tho Uruke, and had been sent
Into HenniMla with prize crews from thu Drake, which Itself towed Into port
tho crippled lloon.
The published despntch reads:
"Drako here to-day towing Itoon.
Took her 100 knots east northeast
Hermuda, threo hours running fight.
Lost Danforth, eighteen men. Her
lobses about one-third. Htruck as we
caroo abeam. Two merchantmen with
her, ono armed. Took both. Brought
here. Scagrave on sighting lloon
said: Tle.iso God, to-day I will
avenge Craddock' Itoon badly
knocked nhout by D.'.'. Thirty-two
officers and 710 men-taken In thu
threo prlies."
Thero Is no Danforth on tho Hrit
lsh lists of subordinate officers avail
able In this country, but J. rtodcrlck
Scagrave was the'eommander of the
llacchante, which was of about tho
same size as the Draku and Is known
to havo been in West Indian waters
recently,
Tho Drake has been outfitting at
Ilcrmuda and naval men said to-day
It was entirely possible that the
commander and crew of tho Bac
chante might h.ivo been transferred
to the Drake on short notice to hunt
down the German sea raiders.
Capt. Illackwood, tho British Navai
Attache of tho Consulate Oencral here,
said to-day that tho Drake was armod
with 9.2 Inch guns and Seagrava
might be In command of ber.
It was said at the consulate that
tho wording of the despatch with tho
details contained in it were In llitm
fri.'lvc.H very nearly proof of tho gen-
I'.inoneis of tiit) news 1 he i,'mail
attributed to I'apt. Swig. jv wa not
I'd as pi'i-ull.irly i inuuctei'Istio of
man. lie was a diluted fiiend of A )
rair.il Cruildock, who went down Willi
I; Is flagship, thu rninw flood Hope,
when she was Mink h the (,!u mans
curly In tho war.
It w.is .said that tlit ik-uh niKiil :o
true even though no advices imd iicu
(Continued on St:ond Faf)
BOOKS DISAPPEAR
It said, had been received In code i
,
WILLARD-MORAN BOUT
FORFEITS ARE POSTED
Tex Rickard Puts Up $10,000 That
Big Fight Will Be Held
March 8.
The principals in the Jess'WilIard
Frank Sloran fight, to be held In .Mad
iton Square CJardnn .March 8, met In
the Hotel Clarldge this afternoon and
completed the actual signing of con
tructs. Tex Illckard, tho promoter,
posted a forfeit of 10,W0 as a guar
antee of his ability to make good tho
$70,000 purso for tho bout, tho second
largest ever offered for a fight In this
country and a lecord for a ten
round go,
Tom Jones, representing Jeaa Wil
lard, put up a guarantee of $5,000
that the champion would appear on
the agreed date, while Frank Storan'u
manager, Ike Dorgan, posted $2,500
mat nis man would be on hand. After
tiio
posting of forfeits Promoter
Hickard ullowed Wlllard $1,500 for
training expenses,
VILLA AND HIS BAND
REPORTED ON THE RUN
Driven
crn, Ci i . ... .
rrom Stand in Western
i.liiliuahua, bay Carranza M en
Now Miwine R-kIumi-H
IX PASO, Tvs
Keb. n.-Franclsco
Villa and his band have been driven
out of Canyon de Kl Nldo, Western
Chihuahua, according to official re
ports received to-day by Uen, Cavlra,
commandant at Juarez. Tho reports
stated the bandit band was moving
o.mtwurd toward Imuna, whsra Coi,
buntutl (Joniatles is in command,
1
FRENCH FIRST LINE
TRENCHES TAKEN,
Germans Capture Positions orf
' a Front of 800 Yards
- Near Vimy.
mOItHN. Feb. (via London).
Capture of the first line French po
sitions over n front of S00 yards to the
west of Vlmy was announced to-day
by tho War Office.
"South of the Somme," the report
continues, "tho French again pene
trated during tho evening a small
German tronch section. In Hols lo
Pretro an enemy ncroplano was ahot
down by our Infantry. It
foil In
flumcsr. its occupants dead,
The rjernun attack was mada near
tho western end of the Krench front,
a short distance below tho Belgian
border thu region which has been
the senno of pronounced activity re
cently. Vlmy 1m two mlk'H northeast
of Ncuvllle, near which town the CJcr-
matin last month made an Infantry
attack, capturing, an reported by Ber
lln. about 1,500 yarda of French potrt.
tlons.
PAIU8, Keb. 9 (via Imdon). The
Krench War Offlco thla afternoon
gavo out the following statement:
"In the Artols artillery on both
sides continued to show activity. On
the front, extending from Hill 140 to
the rod from Neuvllle to I-a Folic,
tho CJermans yesterday exploded two
mines heavily chargod. To the west
of La Folio they were ablo to pene
trato nome portions of our trench
which they had destroyed by tho ex.
plosion, but at certain points wo
drove them out by an effective hand
grenade attack. The fighting con
tinued during the night.
"South of the Somme River ia
bombarded the enemy's trenches.
"In the Vosgos there was cannonad
ing on both sides In the nelgbbornood
ol Hartmansweller Kopf."
GERMAN AIRSHIPS RAID
TWO TOWNS IN BRITAIN
Ramsgate and Broadstairs, Sixty-
Seven Miles Southeast of Lon
don, Bombarded.
I)N'DON, Feb. 9. Two German
aeroplanes bombarded tho Kngllsh
towns of rtamsgate and Broadstairs
at 3.30 this afternoon. Tho Admiralty
announced that no ilamago was done.
- ......
i (tuitiffet" " ws ni.; -
' seven miles southeast of London and
! Ii a shipping town or some impor
town of some
ttance. In all probability shipping in
: n,. Itamsgate harbor was the oh.
Jective of the German attack The
town of Broadstairs hs two miles
east northeast of Itamsgate.
II'IVTKR CIIITISK3
;4 TO V.HMKIt UUMES
x. U trie Hill! DO, fit.
pUu tod it;
alur at 1 b World Trntfl Uumsii
BERLIN CLAIMS
QUIQG I "OUTSIDE MAN,"
GETS PAID $20,000 A YEAR;
$1 83,477 WENT TO LAWYERS
r
Four Boxes Containing Andrew
fcreedman's Papers Vanished
From Warehouse Last Saturday
Thompson Subpoenas President
and Will Force Production.
CONSTITUTION DELEGATES
DREW INTERBOROUGH PAY
The astounding announcement
pipa the late Andrew Frt4man
w -oiiumicp issuea us suopoena lor mem was maqe hms arternoon'-af
Pero,rs?Ail.hfiprn1a
rrHffefwBO'hlsM-orked since fast Saturday oh Frwdmdri's bank accounts
at the office of the Guaranty Trust Company.
President Sabin of the Guaranty Trust Company had just left the
witness stand after declaring that he had refused to lit Morse see Freed-
man's private memoranda, letters, &c.
"I understood,'' said Mr. Mone, "that tfcere were four boxes of tfccsr
prlrnto memoranda and letters. When I was related icceta to them 1
went up to the Manhattan Slorngo Warehouse, where the boxes had been
stored. Tho Manhattan Storage manager told me (be four boxes of Freed.
man papers bad been taken away last Saturday.
"'JVhoro toT I nsked him. 'To the Guaranty Trust Compaujl'
,4,'o,' ho answered. They took them somewhere clc.,n
I-'reedmah was one of the most important and trusted members of
tht Interborotigh Hoard of Directors. He stood close to the biggest men
in high fiuanc.'. There is hardly any doubt that his papers contain a
great deal of information of the utmost value to those who want to know
where the millions went that were scattered by the Interborough di
rectors over the dual subway extension contracts. '
The mlnuU) books ot Uie Board of Directors of the InterboroBfh exam.
Ined this afternoon showed that fleorge YV. VYIckeriham, De lancer RleoU,
Henry L. SUmnon, John B. StanchHeld, Lemael E. Qalcr d Morfaa J.
O'Brien were all on the Interboroosh payroll darlaf the Coistititional
CoBTention last summer. With the exception ef Xr. Stanehfeld these
ffentlemea stent most of the summer In Albany, anally emrngeii In cempil
Ing a new constitution. The nature of the serrtcee they performed for the
Interboroagh, while drawlnf pay front the State as constitution baUderr)
Is not disclosed by the minute books.
Charles T. Babln, Prealdonl ot the Guaranty Trust Company, appeared
under subpoena and declared that he had. allowed Perley Mora, the com
mtttee'e expert accountant, to sea all the bank books, returned checks, stubs,
tc, belonging to the eetato of the late Andrew Freedman. Bui when Mr.
Moroo wanted to go Into the private papers ot Mr. Froedman Mr. Satin
objected.
THOMPSON SCORES ACTION OF TRUST COMPANY.
"This committee," declared Senator Thompson, "cannot delegate to
your company, or any one olae, tho decision as to what is proper and what
Is Improper to examine. Wo are not going to expose any one's private
affairs. We eond an accountant to your office as a matter of accommoda
tion, so that tho papers need not be brought here and thrown on tho table
and thus occasion an exposure of matters you would like to avoid,"
"We seek to avoid nothing. We aro willing to obey this committee's
subpoenal" exclaimed an excited young man who said he was Thomas
Oarrott Jr., attorney for Sabin. "I have worked with Mr. Morse and gtren
htm overy aid. But we do not think wo are Justified In showing htm Mr.
Frcedman's private papers. Wo would like to consult Samuel Untermyer,
our co-executor, who Is In Florida."
"I'm tlrod," said Senator Thompson, "of awaiting the convenience ot
somo one who is In Kuropo or Florida, or somewhere else outside of this
State.
"Mr. Sabin, you may be excused until 4 o'clock this afternoon, and is
the meantime we will issuo a subpoena for another of your co-executors,
Walter a. Oakman. Wo will hear him at 4 o'clock, too."
James L. Quackenbush told Counsel Colby that the payroll of the legal
tlcpartmont of tho Interborough Company Is $24,976 a month.
Q. Are I'rnncls L. iVellmun and Lemuel Kly Qulgg under annual re
tainer ( A. Yes. The) do lmt report to nir. They are outside counsel. Mr.
! Wrlliiian gi l n minimum uf VSfiM n year, which goes on a sliding scale
I depending on (lie amount of business up to $12,000 or 915,000 a year. Xr.
j Motet gets 10,000 or 12,000 a year. Mr. Qulgg gets 15,000 quarterly, which
tnmounts lo $20,000 a jenr.
I Secretary I'hbr brought a record i
of all the legal expetne Incurred uy
tho Intorborough In tho dual con
tracts for the railway extensions and
elevated road third-tracking.
"I Jhd," said Counsel Colby, "that
that four boxes containing: thVprivate
have disappeared since the, Thomp
nine Individuals or firms outside of
lawyers engaged In this matttr re
ceived f 183,477.98."
Hccretary Fisher protested that tba
inttrborouyh had been really forcsd
If
if
.' m, Mi &IHLMi.4JMUwl. 1 nSn ill
Limmaei ,iVisl
