RIGHT HERE
IN RICHMOND
Every Metropolitan Adcantage for
Neiccomcrs?See T.-D. Wants.
iUdjmotu> Cimes-IJisipafrfj
RIGHT HERE
IN RICHMOND
Attract ice Homes lor Sule or to Lei.
Sec T.-D Want Pages
66th YEAR
VOI.UMK 00
MJ.ii licit :tt>
RICHMOND, VA., WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 1916.?FOURTEEN PAGES.
SSSTff* -FAIR
PRICE, 2 CENTS
FAVORS REMOVAL
OF HOME FORKi
i
Governor, in Special Message,.
Urges Consolidation of State J
Enterprises.
.SUGGESTS EPILEPTIC FARM:
i
Institution in Chesterfield Is Ask- j
ing $81,000 for Maintenance j
and Buildings.
TaklH* the position that the not dl-,
Hon of thn State treasury :?t this U
absolutely prohibits the n
of tho school as a separate institut n
and that justice to the citrons o ??,
surrounding countrj demands It..,
moval. Governor Stuart. In a c -
munlcatlon to the General AsscnMl
vcntenlav recommended 'be consol d.i- ?
tlon of the Virginia Home and 1 ??>"?;
,rial School for Girl,, in Chester fWld i
County, with the Virginia State M'l-,
leptlc Colony, at Madison Heights. .n
Amherst County. ]
Somewhat in the nature of a dissent-1
inp opinion, the Governor's report is|
inderstood to voice the attitude of a
minority of the boaid ..f directors. eor.-j
sistlng of seven rri' Mibers". it??T"1 ?-?l by
himself and confirmed by the Senate:
under the provisions of an act of the.
General Assembly at it'' last regular
session. Four members of the board,!
including liob* i t Lecky. Jr.. liev. .1. J.
Seherer, nurnett Lewis, Miss Uoller and
Mrs. Samuel l\ Wadilill. have express*-'!
themselves as unalterably opposed to
co-ordinating or merging the school
with Kindred .State institutions
ST *Ti ; Ml'ST l.'U.N Slll.l l?A't I'
I I V \AltlOl S KM-Hlll'lllSUS
"Tli" economic administration of lb*
State's ri vcnuet," tho Governor says,
?particularly important at this time,
absolutely prohibit* expenditures ne> -
es?ar% for the improvements and ma.n
tenanee of all tins separate institutions
having for their purpose the cus'ody.
care or reformation of the various
classes of persons who, ? "'tie. not
strlrtlv in the penal -Lit. should be
separated from soeUtv. and demands
certainly the consolidation or merging
of i ertain of these in-titut on '
"The expenses incident to t! ? erec
tion and continuous Improvement of
separate crowit.,' plar.ts. separate
overhead charges, separate physicians
und mental expert*. tuimero is as-i-t
atvts and attendants, separate wat-r.
heating and lighting *> stems, :ailroad
fans f'?r persons committed to
Institution. but. upon < x.inunation.
found pioi" r to ho placed In anotiiT.
can a>vl should b> eliminated by such
merging: and still furtV" reduction of
;.o.r tpit.i e|ns< s < .ii> lie obtained
through purchasing in large quantities
and requiring the inmates, as far as
po-'.ible, to produce nrtiebs to meet
their iqutual necessities.
r.ui'AT ai?va\ta?;?>
i\ riu?ri?si:u consolidation
"The advantages of such consolida
tion to the is.mates themselves w iTl ho
gieat. Owing to the lieavy b.ird* n, the
State ran aft -r.l ..t these par.ite loca
tions to upend but .-mall sums in build
ings and e<p:!pi.ieiit v h'-r.-by the proper
segregation of tin va.io.is elasu* s of j
inmates and their necessary vocational
and educational training can he oh-j
tnined, and ?a>-h Generr I Assembly ioj
being importuned f??r sc. .nlngly uk
essary appropriations to thl.? end. which!
the revenues of tho Mate do not war
rant.
"l.'pon imi: olidatii? n >'f the instltu-]
tli,as the tnmnt?vj can be more nc-j
ourately classified ar.il properly segie-j
gated, and proper buildings and equip-:
inert for vocational and educational j
tralnlnp supplied, not on!- f >r present |
needs, but also for anticipate! growth,!
at a minimum aggregate cot ? which the
revenues Justify." j
Justice to the citizens of the sur-j
rounding country, whose social and ma
terial life Is visibly affected by the!
location of the school in their midst, j
requires, the Governor thinks, its re-j
inovnl to some other locality. Already.)
.ho says, it has exerted a baneful ln-|
tluence upon property values in tho i
territory adjacent to Hon Air. home-1
seekers preferring not to settle near
the school, and its removal would ho aj
consideration of equity to tho County j
of Chesterfield, which has recently lost
a large portion of its taxable values'
through the annexation of it.* most
populous territory. The same objec
tions might be raised to its location as J
a separate institution in another com-1
munlty. j
Mint units or iioa n i>
A 111:". OI'I'OSKD TO fHAXtiKI
:
ICov. .1. .1. Seherer, Jr., a member of
lhe board of directors, expressed un
alterable opposition, when asked for
his views last night, to co-ordinating
the school with the State Kpileptic
Colony at Madison Heights. The prob-j
loins of the institutions, he said, are
.entirely different, and a merger would j
tend to the detriment of the work un-|
dertaken by both institutions.
l^The Virginia Home and Industrial
School for Girls," be said, "would lose
its identity If merged with another
State institution of like character. We
have instilled into the girls at r.on
Air a certain pride, in their school?
very much the same spirit that obtains
among the students In other schools ? >
and to place them under the same man
? agemcnt with persons confined In the I
Madison Heights institution would ho
to destroy that spirit that we have
worked so hard to create and which is
so essential to the success of the school.
To do Its work properly it is absolutely
necessary that It be a separate and
distinct, institution.
A SI* Kit,000 FIIOM
STATIC THIS A'MAII
"If the girls are sent to the property
occupied by the State Epileptic Colony.
It would be necessary to havo some,
sort of guard system to enforce scg
(Continued"on Tenth Page.)
O. A O. TO NORFOLK.
PaasennrarH tmlnjr C. ? O. foot trains to
Norfolk run vtew captured steamer Appnm
anchored Newport News.
Irish Still Hope
for Independence
Convention Called to Prepare Le
gitimate Claims to Separation
from England After War.
NKW VOUK, February 8.?A call for
j ii u-uioual convention of "men and
women of the Irish race in America."
i to make "known to the world that Ire.
jliind has not been, and cannot be, al>-(
: boibod Into I>iiclnn0," wan Issued here,
i to-day over the signatures of over'
??.O-jO men of Irish lineage of prominencej
j In different parts of the country. The
convention is to he held in this city on
| March 4 and &.
I Among tho signers are Victor Herbert,'
(president of th* Friendly Sons of St.
! Patrick; JoEcph McLaughlin. national
J president of the Ancient Order of HI
? hern la ns: T. K. St. John Gaffney. for
| mer 1,'nlted States consul at Munich.
| .mil Itev. John Cavanaughi president
| of Notre Dai no University.
j The announcement declares that ire-'
i land looks forward with hope and <011
l fide nee to the "complete breakdown of
j Mritisli misrule as the certain outcome
| of the present war."
"England, with licr allies," it .{p.
? dares, "in spite of her boasted ru
. premacy in numbers, of wealth and in
I territory, has been defeated In every
contest where skill and courage and
| k. rength havo been the weapons, und
[ has kept her cause afloat with the
j neutral world only localise of t ii? - -e.n
I worship und cable control through
which her weapons r.f calumny and
falsehood have been wielded with t)ie
dexterity and success which ripe ex
; perlenee and Inherited tendency have
j given to hep."
\moncr the subjects announced 'or
t discussion <s "how b?st to a< t no tnat
!,,h? congreiw of the nations at the
of tJJe wnr Hi* Iwltlmntf claims
1 of Ireland to reparation from Fng'atid
(may receive the f-,Hest measure
( consideration. and that, after awlonp
. . ufferlnifs. she may again take her
, Place among tlie nations of the world.
| DETERMINED FIGHT BEGINS
! Heptihllenn Senator*. M.lerl i,v rinrke
Democrat. Oppose Hntiflentton 0f
^ ifnrnmia Tr?*n(r,
J WASHINGTON. February S.-Rcnub
lean Senators, aided by Senator Cla*k*
I Democrat. of Arkansas. began .1 deter'.'
mined fight in an executive session of
(the Senate late to-day against ratilim
Mop of the pending tr.atv with
I Nicaragua. For three hours Senators
1 I.orah. Smith, of Miehigan. and ria.fco
|argued against the measure and urred
? passiKe of a motion by Senator Horah
that discussion of the treaty, and also
J. , Vh0, Colombian treitv.
| which is to follow, be held in
[ Senate. No vote was reached on rhe
(motion but the Senate agreed to r?
Mime tho debate at 1 o'clock to-morr, w
j afternoon The treaty proposes pPv.
mont of *31.000.000 to Nicaragua for
.? canal-route option ami naval haises
I in l'onaeca Hay.
j Y'hHe th? Senate u?? debating the
1 ,hn ? n'vadorlan gov. rnment sent .
1 dispatch ,0 It:- ininiMtci' insm.ct
11,1,* Protest with
' ? '?te Departmerit again.st raD:|."i
f, Th" COMV?ntic. on ,h.. ground
I ifV 1 ? ??ie neutral it v of
! ""' "'?as. Minuter SaldKar .-aid" Ul.
i night he woulO place the protect before
| the .fate Department to-morrow T!.e
I?,?"?0"' ;,c:,inst ff???.lor against
LV, ' * U'"S 1,1 "'3. Honduras
lal-o n.is protestor]
SANCTUARY FOR APPAM
German, I rr|,0 Sh||) Vnr |(r
nuilii in Atnrrlcnti Water*
Inilrrtnftcly.
i WASHINGTON*. Februarv S ?rv.
[many contends that the Hrltlsh liner
i Appnin, brought to Hampton Roads
a German prDe crew. |H entitled, under
U ea^ ToSref Pru"",?n-Am-rlcn?
I, . remain m American watc-s
1 Indefinitely, and in support of her po
tion. ( oimt von Herns!orff ,he German
I rot^Tr ': t,Wlny Pr?SWntOfI to Sec
I ?> ?' \ n for?-al ' onimunlcation
Ion ochalf of the Berlin Foreign Ofliee
j rhe I nlted Slates practically has <ie
jHded that the treaty guarantees thc
-?-blp to the Germans us a pr:7.e. as
[against her return to her Rritlch
7on"?rT "aS not '??t.|clo<I how
| ! v* 7 ^ ,,f' Permitted to remain
[ in American waters.
Lel?,iaCCPPl U'? contention
(nermftf^" at Appai? ^onh, he
permitted to remain until the end of
Lntil ,hen her departure
would mean sure capture by the , lild
I? hlP? outside the Virginia cape,
| There was no indication to-dav of how
| "s on a decision might be announced.
; EIGHTY ZEPPELINS IN USE
Newest Model. I-nger Than'
I revions Types, nnd Is Fish like
In .Shape,
| TJBTiNE. SWITZ18RT.AXD, Februarv S
. Faris).?KIghty Zeppelins are now
in the German service, it appears from
information developed at Friedrlebs-I
I hagen. where the Zeppelin works are
, located. One of the latest type that is
! ,aJT a,,,rlu1 ,r,p ,his is the
th ft il' , ! ,S takcn 1,rro to '"can I
that it is tho ninety-fifth in tho aer'csr
dating frotn thc beginning of the war
fifteen having been lost, it is said.
The newest model seems corisidorablv
longer than previous typos. Tt Is of
fish like shape nnd gray tinted by tho
means of aluminum powder. It is al
leged. The gondolas are of plated steel.
I'-ach has six machine guns in Its quicK
fire battery and apparatus for throw
ing homba and air torpedoes. it is
reported that a new air torpedo moro
powerful tlinn any previously used is
about to bo given a trial.
C'nrgo of Cotton on Fire.
LONDON, February S.?AVitli her
cargo of cotton on fire, the Swed'sh
steamship Toxas is making for tho pi'rt
or Kirkwall. Scotland. The vessel Wt
New Orleans. January 22, nnd Newport
News. January 27. bound for Gothen
burg and K'ristlania.
MAYOR CANDIDATES!
OPENCAMPAIGNj
Ainslie, Hawkins and Lecky j
Speak at Barton Heights
Schoolhouse.
I AVOID PERSONAL ALLUSIONS,
j i
I Hawkins Denies Being Candidate
j of Vice,Commission?Lecky
Reads His Platform.
I '
Kxccnt fur several veiled allusions
I I
, by O. A. Hawkins, t!>?* opening of the
: mayoralty and eouncllntanlc rnmpainn |
I before the North Klchmond Citizens' j
'Association of the Seventh Procinct of
(l.oe Ward, held lust night in th'- Liar-'
, ton Heights School. was characterize! j
by a One delicacy of feeling anion? the'
iihri-c candidates for th'-. mayoralty for j
|oach other, and though it was Mr.
Hawkins's own home precinct, tho audi-:
? <?f several hundred applauded each1
; alike.
? Mayor Aln'lle, in his ilrst appeal for
| ?.r -.lection, was calm and dispassionate.;
'lie- referred often to his desire to serve1
the people through co-operation v.-it<?'
th-rn as individuals and as organiza
tions, and said that if lie ha<l made mls-j
takes it was duo, Tiot to lack ?>f rare
.and foresight on his part, hut because
of human failure to be able to judge in
the pr' sent what would lie the resi:!t
of the i" st motives and Intentions. He
stated that lie had always sought the
I best a'lvice within his roach, and that
. ;;po?i that advice and upon V.is own
! judgment he had given to the people
of Ilichmond the best service of which
lie was capable.
n.\\VKi\s i)i:\ii> m:.iNc;
VIC!-: COMMISSION CA.MJiri.VTi:
In announcing his candidacy, Mr.
Hawkins desired to inipr-ss on Ms
jhearers that he did not enter the race
! prenvdltatedly, and th;.i lit* was not.
j as he has been accused of being-, the
? candidate of tho Vfco Commission, of
'the Civic Association, of the Y. M. C.
'A., or of the Anti-Saloon 1.ensue. Ho
! had boon sought out, he said, and, be
<au;-e of the appfe.il *h li.nl beeji made
jto him, he had consented to run.
Kobett Lecky, Jr., reste<l his appeal
j on the platform which has be<-n pub
lished in the papers ami upon his s'.-r
: vice to the city during- th" fourteen
i years he h - been a ir.eml.x r of the
Hoard of l'i; e Commissioners.
Short addresses were ri-.icJ?* l>y 1". I?.
l'todlri. John 10. Rose. Jr.. J. J. Stall -
ings. Dr. W. H. Street and A. I.#. Yon
derl-hr, candidates for the City Coiin
1 cil.
The meeting was presided over by
i President W. S. Pettit. A large crowd,
(the majority of which was said to be
: voters, was present. While the audi
ence was waiting for the appearance
of the candidates it was regaled with
: elections on a graphophone. the music
!>oothisig them into pati'-nce for the
speeches t<> follow. A short busine.*:?
session was held, and the candidates
were invited t?? s.:.; ; on the rostrum.
Ttpeatis.- of a colli bret ze blowini?
through the anterooms several of them
donned th^ir overcoats, and lat?r, at
the suggestion of oo.? of tit' audience,
they took their I'eats below with their
fellows and ascended the stane r.s they
were announced. They were intro
duced in alphabetical order.
mnsi.ii: row in:\r.LoiMir.NT
or (ommi %rr\ sciurr
Mayor Ain-lie siid that lie did not
know of. and could no* rcall, any
duty or obligation whleh bis ofllce im
poved that had net bceti performed
'to the best of h.I-" ability, and dod'ired
that no obligation that should hnvc
rested upon his .??boulders bad been
; hifted to those of any other.
"Hindsight," he? said, "might have
(changed some of my actions, but with
jlho best advice I could obtain I have
inlways done the best 1 could. 1 have
always sought the. co-operation of the
I people, my employers, and since j have
, been Mayor the door of my ofllce has
J always been open to any who called..
J for 1 wanted the citizens. t<> understf.nd
j that they were my employers, I their
' servant." He referred to a remark
made by Kishop O'Connell. who said
that in recent years a fine community
spirit hail developed in Kichmond, -?nd
this spirit tho Mayor wished to-, see
! i;row.
"I was elected two years Sign." he
(continued, "without having any par
ticular platform. Kvcry candidate says
that he will do the best ho can. T
| said the same thing then, and I have
j devoted all J have of intellect, of in
I dttjdry and of integrity to the office,
il have been charired with making mis
j takes. P.ut one has to look to the fu
! ture, and In the light of present clr
! cumstance what he does may seem tho
i proper thing to do, yet later develop
' ments may show that bo was wrong,
in won is f;ivn\
(iKNP.IIOlS AI'I'I.AUSK
j "It is the misfortune of human frailty,
front which no one may escape, from
[ which none is secure. If another be
I elected to till this high ofllce, it might
be found afterwards that he, too, made
! mistakes. Is there any of us who does
not? One must act according to his
I present light, and it must be remem
bered that the correct thing of to-day
may be the error of to-morrow." Tho!
Mayor was gracious in his thanks for
the privilege accorded to him. and the
audience was generous in its applause.
In his opening, Mr. Hawkins dis
avowed that he had entered the race
[with premeditation, and said that he]
had announced himself upon petition!
of friends and supporters. Hem.irking
upon the present system of government
ho said that he did not believe in the
oft-repeated axiom of letting v/ell
enough alone, either in mWals or in
government. There had been, he said.!
but two changes In the city govern-!
ment In many years?the establishment I
of tho Administrative Board and of the
j Juvenile Court?which he considered to
be steps 'n the right direction. Ho re
cited that former Ambassador Tlryce, in
his book. "The American Common
(.Continued on Ninth Page.)
They Are Charged With Being
Leaders in Flots Against
American Neutrality.
TURKISH OFFICIAL INVOLVEDi
Action Taken to Mean That i
Hereafter Government Will I
Prosecute All Offenders.
I
WASH INGTON, February S.- Investi-'
k?'iIIons by agents of the Department of'
.lustiec resulted to-day in the votingi
of indictments In Kan Francisco against j
prominent figures in what are con-j
sidered here to be two of the boldest'
plots involving questions of American!
neutrality that have been uncovered!
since tlie Kuropean war began. j
Among those against whom indict-|
meats were voted, according to a me.?-j
received h?rc, are Fran/. Hopp.!
German lontiul-general: Uaron K. II.
von Schack, vice-consul of Germany,)
and Maurice Hall, the Turkish consul
general. !
fiOVICH N >1 r.VT AIJOI'TS
MO Ml-: lilt A STIC ATTITini:1
Consular oflicers do not enjoy the
diplomatic immunities which ministers,
ambassadors and attaches are Riven by
international law, but are subject to:
Jurisdiction of the country in which
they ate resident, ami may be treated'
by the law as are any other persons.1
The indictments voted to-day, however,
aro the llrst which the Federal gov
eminent had attempted to secure
against any foreign representatives.
Tins fact was taken to moan that horo
pter the administration intends to
prosecute. wherever prosecution will
.i*\ any offender against American neu
tral i: y.
I2o;>p and Von Schack are charged
with complicity in the plot which was
first uncovered several weeks aso with
the arrest of C. C. Crowley, alleged to
be a pro-German agent, who had under
taken to ciipple the American output of
munitions of war and In other ways
!o help the cause of the Teutonic allic.
i>opp Is accused of being the head of a
conspiracy which hoped to accomplish'
this end by interfering with trade ?nj
munitions and preventing railway ship- ]
meats by blowing up two tunnels on.
Canadian roads.
I'ltOSKC I'TIO.VS Alti: I'MIF.II
SIIF.HMAX AN'TITKVST ACT I
The German officials are being pro-!
cei (led against under the Sherman anti-^
trust act In connection with their al
leged activities again*-; American j>lati13
and under a fj.-tion ??t" liio penal code
aimed at tin netting on foot of military
expeditions against a friendly nation
in connection with plans to blow up Ca-|
nadian railway tunnels.
The indictment of the Turkish consul-!
general was voted in connection with1
the use of the steamer Sacramento to!
supply German ships of war in the]
South 1'acific. which ended in the in-;
tern men t of that vessel l>y the Chilean!
government many months ago. Ac-:
cording to officials here, the Sacramento!
case is one of the clearest that has!
come to their notice of the use of an |
American port as the base for supplies!
of a belligerent.
.MAN V A It K IN* I.I lli:i?
IN it It A N l> .rritvs ACTION
NAN" IT: A NCI SCO. February S.?News'
from Washington of the voted indict-i
ments of consular officials here of tliei
German government anticipated by ai i
least two days the prospect of a rc->
port from the Fed eraI grand jury. Of-'
ticials admitted that among thoso'
against whom indi<*tments have been!
voted are included the following:
Franz Hopp. consul-general for Ger-i
many; Uaron von Schack. vice-consul;
for Germany: Henry W. H. Kauffman,!
chancellor of the German consulate;!
Maurice H. Hall, rmiMi!-genera 1 for'
Turkey; Fred .lebsen, former owner of;
the steamer Ma2atlan; Johannes 11. von ?
Koolbergen. alleged agent of the Ger
man consulate; l?r. Simon Iteimer, said!
to be a German navy o'lleer, and;
"Frederick Williams," thought to be a!
fictitious name. j
Three of the bomb-plot indictments!
contained charges againr. Von George.
Wilhelm von tlrincken, an attache of
the German consulate: C. C. Crowley, a;
detective, anil Mrs. Margaret Cornell.!
an Investigator. who. with Crowley,!
was employed by Hopp. according to!
the charges. These persons, already'
under indictment accused of conspiring!
to destroy commerce and to use the!
mails to incite t<> murder, arson and,
assassination, are, according to District |
Attorney I'reston, charged with viola
tion of the Sherman antitrust law in
conspiring to send a military expedi
tion from the l.'nited States.
acts coin: i nih:h iikaij
OK .M 11,IT \ It \ r:\ I'KDITIOX
It is charged that German agents
ojierated in Panada in the destruction
of tunnels and bridges to such an ex
tent that their alleged acts would come!
under the head of those of a military!
expedition. \'<>n Koolbergen is said!
to have been one of these agents. I
Alleged violation of the Sherman lawj
has to do with restrictions of inter
state commerce, which the government
charges Hopp, Von Schack, Crowley,
Mrs. Cornell and Von Hrinckeu con
spired to effect.
It is In connection with the alleged
purchase of shipments and their dis
charge to German cruisers in Chilean
waters by the steamer Sacramento that
Turkish Consul Hall is said to have
been indicted. Preston said Hall!
signed the contracts for the purchasej
of the cargo of the Sacramento,
Dr. Keimer. whose whereabouts is
unknown, and "Frederick Williams" are
also thought to lie connected with the
Sncramcnto. The alleged Indictments
of Chancellor Kauff and Uaron von
Schack were said to be In connection
With the carrying of coal by the
steamer Mazatlan front San Francisco
to Guaymas for German warships in
the fall of 10M. Frederick Jcbscu
owned the vessel.
LUSITANIA CASE
NEARLY SETTLED
q
Only Minor Alterations Yet to Be Made
Before Full Agreement With Germany
Pit KM UK VI' \V 11.SON tun) the
iiii-iiihers of lilj| t'iililnot liui r
none out the Intent proposal of
tirrinnny for n settlement of the
Amcrleitii u?it eminent'* demands
concerning the sinklnu of (be I.list'
tnni:i. While some alterations In the
form of the iiKrirnicnt, ivhlrli -\a i 11
require Its reference to llcrlin nunln,
>11 iint lie. made, they nro rrKiirilcd 1114
minor oiicn, nnd the impression pre
\iill* tlint in ii Mliort time the etm
trovers* irlll lie settled amicably.
Cbarued with heln?s connected
with plots involving questions of
Amcrlcnn neutrality, the tieriiiitii
eonsul-icenoral nnd vice-consul nnd
the Turkish consul-Kciicriil In Sim
Francisco hnve heea Indleted liv n
I'edernl Krnml Jury.
\rtlllery actions between the
I'rencli nml the llrltlsh nnd the tior
innns continue lit various points on
ilie Krnnoo-llelfclnn front, lint there
huve hern 110 lni|?ortnut cliniiKcs In
|i on 111 o us anywhere. \ or huve the
t.ermnn* yet lieKiin the srreut olfen
?l?e for which they are reported
iinollleinlly to he preparing.
Heavy IlKhtlnx litis broken out
siicnln In I'.iiNt (?nllcln. All atonic
the front the nrtlllery hits lieen no
tice. The Itusslnns succeeded north
of Tnrtiopol after repented attacks
In penetrating the Austro-lliinisnrlnii
ndcinrcd Infantry posts. bur were
ejected from tliem Inter on. nccnril
iiik to Vlennn.
Austrian warships In the Adriatic
hnve Ineffectually nttempteil to tor
pedo n llrltlNii cruiser nnd n French
torpeilo-hont which were aiding the
Serhlun nrmy In Its evacuation of
the Atlrlntlc oonst. A Teutonic sub
mit rl ne nlso attempted to sink en
tente allied vessels ofV Unrar.r.o, hut
tlie torpedoes missed their mark,
EIGHT-HOUR MI CHECK
1 MOIL INDUSTRY
I
Howard Klliott. Laments Demands of
Employees for Shorter Time
mid Higher Wages.
FOIUOI?I'X XRIt OF DISASTiOlt
i Addresses Chamber of Commerce of
1 nitetl States at Fourth Annual
j Convention?Lively Discussion Is
Started Over Ship-Purchase Hill.
j .VICW" OHLKANS, February S.?Do
j nmnds of railway employees for higher
: wages ami the general tcndeucy to
ward the eight-hour work day were
j deprecated as checks upon the develop
ment of Industry by Howard F.Illott.
i chairman of the hoard of the New York,
| New Haven ami Hartford Railroad, in
a speech to-nitrht before the Chamber
of Commerce of the United Stat oh. He
i said such demands as those recently
| made by the four great organizations
i of railroad men were but steps In a
l process which. If continued, would raise
I the cost of living to new heights and
dn.illj i??su11 in conditions much trior'*
j to the disadvantage of labor than of
; capital.
I'OIHTH AWfAl. MKISTI.Xt;
OK CIIA.MHKIt
Mr. Klliott's statement was made at
the close of the tirst day of the na
tional chamber's fourth annual conven
tion. which is being attended by more
than 000 delegates from every State in
the Union. .lolin II. Fahrer. of r.oston.
the president, addressed the opening
session this morning, appealing to bus
iness men to do some const ruct ivo
thinking, and to become less partisan
in dealing with great economic ?iues
I tioi;H. |
The day's sessions were devoted
largely to committee reports. To-night
there were speeches by men prominent
in tlie business, official and professional
life of the nation. In addition to Mr.
Klliott. the speakers included Secretary
lledfleld, of the Department of Com
merce. who discussed "Vocational Itin
eration," and Hr. Krnest Fox Nichols,
president of Dartmouth College, whose
subject was "Employment Managers."
A report from the merchant marine
committee, condemning-certain features
of the ship-purchase bill pending in
Congress, started a lively discussion
during the afternoon. William II.
Douglas, chairman, assorted the com
mittee's belief that it would be incon
sistent to pi a co two Cabinet officers,
as contemplated, on the proposed ship
ping hoard, and declared the proposal
to have the government spend JAO.OOO,
?Min was inadequate.
THINKS UK MIOI'M) ICKAK
VOlCK OF THK l'KOI'I.K
"The President has heard the voice
of the people on national preparedness,"
Mr. Douglas said, "and from a program
? ?! two battleships a year, ho now calls
for tho greatest navy in the world. If
he were to go out and speak for a mer- j
chnnt marine he would come hack with
a proposal not to spend $.'0,000,000, but
?-50,00n,000."
A resolution which would put the
chamber on reconl as approving a pol
icy of universal military training in the
United States is under consideration of
the resolutions committee, and prob
ably will be Introduced on Thursday
after addresses by Secretaries Harrison
and Daniels. 1'resident Wilson, who
will speak at the dinner which will
closo the convention on Thursday I
niKht. Is expected to touch on the sub-I
ject of national defense.
I.A M10NTS TI0M>H\r V
TO W A It D Kf (? IIT-IIOi; It O A V I
In his address to-night Mr. Klliott
lamented the tendency toward the'
eight-hour day in view <>f the great;
volume ,if work facing the country's i
industries, and deflated the railroads
should be relieved of the burden of j
serving "forty-nine masters"?tho
Federal government and tho States.
"The nation is confronted with more
work than ever before, ships to build,
factories to enlarge and railroads to
complete," he said, "About 30,000.000
men are at work. If they work ten j
hours a day, that Is ti.1,600.000.000 hours
a year. If they work eight hours, it Is i
7-t.S.SO.000,000, a difference of IS.720.000,- j
000 hours a year. At eight hours a day
this would mean that about 7.100.000 I
more men must be employed to do the !
work that, the 30,000,000 could do. And j
where are they to como from?"
FOR BUTTLE IN PACIFIC
Hoar-Admiral Mine Tells House Coin- j
niittee That Fleet. Is Prepared
for Any Kneniy.
DKCLINKS TO III3VKAL SKCRKTS
Congress Is Progressing Toward Pre
paredness, and Committees Are
Shaping Legislation? Continental
Army Scheme May He Abandoned, i
j "WASHINGTON, February S.?Con-j
; grees made progress to-day on na
tional-preparedness measures.
The Senate Military Committee closed'
| its hearings on the army hills. The.
I Senate Naval Committee reported fa-i
vorahly the hill for a government i
armor-plate plant and recommended
immediate action on two navy measures
which passed the House yesterday. On
' the House side of the Capitol the Naval
(Committee virtually concluded its ex
lamination of Rear-Admiral Plue. chief
of tlie Iiureau of Navigation, while the
, Military Committee received the pro
posals of the American Red Cross for
greater government aid in Red Cross
preparedness plans.
Huring the day the Military Commit-'
, tees of both houses heard delegations of
[pacifists, who argued against any army
land navy increases.
The most striking statement brought'
lout, at any of the hearings was that of;
| Admiral l!lue, who declared that 'lioj
'American navy was now ready to m*et |
| any enemy it might he called upon to;
j encounter in the Pacific. lie declined i
jio say what steps had been taken in
the last year and a half toward pre-;
j paring the navy against emergencies, i
j holding these to !>?? military secrets.
Chairman Padgett supported Admiral i
Jilue in his determination not to re-j
veal departmental secrets, overruling;
i Representative Rritten's attempt to find |
out, as ho expressed it. "whether thej
navy is now ready to tight." Mr. Krit-j
ten asserted that thn general board had!
warned the department a year ago'
j that it should prepare, and he wanted!
to know just what steps had been j
! taken.
The Senate Military Committee prob->
! ably will begin to-morrow the prepara-l
tion of the bill it will propose to build
ii|i adequate land defenses. Present 'n- '?
ilirattons are that the administration's'
plan to create n Federal volunteer army.:
to be known as the continentals, will
he included in this bill in some form.!
There will he provision for a reorgan- '
k'.ation of the regular army, and Chair- j
man Chamberlain and several of his
committee members will urge a perma-i
nent toree with the colors of more than]
L'O>,000 meni as against Secretary Garri-|
son's i ecoinmendations for a skeleton;
organization of 110,000.
COXTINKXTAI. AltMV SCIIIMtK
MAV lir, AIIA XDOXKI)
The House Military Committee will,
complete its hearings probably next
week. The continental army scheme.!
many committee members believe, will'
be abandoned in the bill it will
submit in favor of measures designed
to federalize the National Guard under
militia pay provisions.
The Senate Naval Committee is not!
expected to take up the appropriation!
bill dealing with the preparedness!
building program until the House cum-j
mil tee is well advanced with its work. I
It will ho six weeks or two months.
Chairman Padgett, of the House com-j
niittee, has estimated, before hearings j
will close there. The building program'
has not been dealt with directly so far.
tho committee having contlned its at-1
ten tion to items dealing with the
equipment and upkeep of ships now!
in service, building or authorized.
To-day's examination of Admiral
Hlue disclosed tho source of the state-1
ments contained in Admiral Fletcher's!
last annual report that the Atlantic
Fleet was short r.,000 men of its proper
complement. Various boards of fleet|
officers determined upon the number of!
men thought necessary for vessels ofj
each typo a year ago. Admiral Plue
sahl. and these greatly increased the]
number for each ship. Admi.al
Fletcher based his statements on these]
figures, ho added, and the shortage un
der authorized complements was less'
than 1,000, which had since been
> emedied.
GERMANY YIELDS
| ALL VITAL POINTS
IN CONTROVERSY
Only Minor Changes in Form
of Agreement Remain
j to Be Decided.
'SUBMITTED TO BERLIN
FOR FINAL APPROVAL
I ^
High Principles Contended For
by Washington Arc Fully
Recognized. 1
| FiATKNT XOTK ACCKPTAHLR
i
Not the Slightest l>illirul(.r Is Ivy
peeled in l-'urtlicr Xej(o?
tiations.
W'ASHIXGTOX. February S.?Tn sub
j stance the tentative communication
' from Germany designed tn settle tho
| Lusitnnfa case is acceptable to the
| United States. Hisli administration
j officials to-night consider that this
government in prevailing upon ?:i-1
' many to make the concessions ami
| agreements, as set forth in the docu
; ment, lias achieved recognition of all
1 the high principles for which it has
i contended in connection with subma
? line warfare.
I OM.V >11VOH ClIAVfiKS
to ciiAHiKv wonntvn
I While the substance of the proposed
communication admittedly is satisfae
I lory, minor changes to clarify the
wording and in connection with tho
[form which the formal document shall
I take were suggested to-day to Count
I von Bernstor(T. the German ambassador,
! by Secret a rv Lansing. The desire of
the United States in this connection
| were made known to the ambassador
; after President Wilson had discussed
I the subject with his Cabinet. Count
j von Hernstorff immediately informed
the secretary that he saw no reason
j why ?hc changes could not be made, but
explained in effect, that. as a precaution,
| he thought he would be justified in
> submitting the entire matter to his
l government for final approval, lie did
' so in a dispatch sent to Berlin to-night,
' and within about six days the resulting'
formal communication is expected.
Secretary Lansing insists, it is stated
i by high authority, that It shall bo
I stated specifically In the communi
cation that it is an answer to tho
; last American note regarding tho
I Lusit ania. This and changes deem
' eel necessary to clarify certain por
tions of the document, administra
tion officials thought Count von Dem
ist or ff himself would be able to make,
j The ambassador, however, decided not
j to change even the punctuation of the
document without the approval of his
government. Ho had not deemed it
necessary, it Is said, to include tho
Statement that the communication was
in answer to the American note, con
sidering that tho same end would bo
accomplished by submitting it in tho
form of a memorandum. Administra
tion officials hold, however, that to
keep the record straight, if for no other
reason, mention that the communica
tion is a reply should bo made.
SI ATT I". It OK Slfi.MXr.
srimiTTi:i> to iu:iim\
Tho ambassador as yet ?loes not
know whether his government wants
him to sign the formal note or whether
it is desired to have the Secretary of
Foreign Affairs do so. This phase also
has been submitted to Berlin.
Assurances were received in high
diplomatic and official circles that the
changes of wording suggested would
not in any sense alter the meaning. No
modifications, tt was authoritatively
stated, were suggested In connection
with the phrase substituted for tho
word "illegal" which the German gov
ernment was unwilling to use.
In Teutonic diplomatic circles not the
slightest difficulty over the proposed
changes is anticipated. Apparently
some !.f the changes consist merely of
substituting one word for another,
changing the position of one phrase of
a sentence without changing even the
words, and striking out words which
in their translation from German to
Knglish. make the language unusual.
Developments came rapidly to-day.
Secretary I.arising went to the White
House an hour before the time set for
the meeting of the Cabinet to discuss
w itli the President in detail the tenta
tive communication and analyze the
meaning of the words employed. When
the Cabinet met the proposal was sub
mitted by ihe President.
??I3VKK\Till V<; AM, HIGIIT,
lll'T IT IS NOT FINISH KIT'
Late this afternoon Count von Bern -
storft. who earlier in the day had re
quested an appointment, was called to
the State Iicpartmcut by Secretary Lan
sing. The two remained closeted in the
secretary's of'Jco for more than half an
hour. The secretary outlined tho
wishes of the United States in detail.
As the ambassador left tho building lie
sjaid:
'?Kverything is substantially all right,
but It is not finished."
A high official of the administration
made this announcement:
"A settlement of tho LuHitania case
is in sight, probably within the next
few days. The United States has not
Increased its demands; it has not re
duced them. You can draw your otvn
conclusion as to tho basis of tho
agreement. The wording proposed by
