Daily and Sunday ?f\ _f\ Cents a
Month
HERALD
30
DELIVERED TO YOUR HOME.
THE
HERALD
AS first announced January I, 1916. Tbe Her.?ld
guarantee? full money's worth to tbe purchasers
of article? advertised in tbe display column* of thu
paper by any Washington merchant
(Cwcmlar Furmithed Vpom Reqmett).
NO. 3403.
WEATHER: OVERCAST, WARMER.
WASHINGTON. D. C. WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 1916.
ONE CENT.
CONSULS ARE
INDICTED ON
PLOT CHARGE
German and Turkish High
Officials Said to Have Vio
lated Neutrality Laws.
TEUTON CALLED LEADER
Conspiracy to Blow Up Tun
nels and Obstruct Muni
tions Trade Is Charged.
Announcement was made at the
Department of Justice yesterday
that the Federal grand jury at San j
Francisco liad voted indictments
against German Consul General
Bopp and two men named Von
Schack and Kaufman, attached to
the German consulate, and Turk
ish Consul General Hall on charge
of violating the neutrality laws of
the United States.
This information was conveyed
in a telegram received at the De
partment of Justice yesterday aft
ernoon and made public by As
sistant Attorney General Warren.
The grand jury voted to include
Consul General Bopp in the indict
ments returned in the so-called
Crowley-Von Brincken case, and)
charges him specifically with vio
lating section 1 of the Sherman
ami-trust law and section 13 of the
1'cnal Code.
I InL-.l With Explosion
Thin rase involv??d alleged conspira
cies to hlow ss ta?arla arad ??r?i?rs??i
*?? ?? naeree In monitions ?sf war on th?*?
rurt of Crowley. Von Brincken and a
man named Smith, who. lt is under
iLtfXMl. will become the government's
witneat in the case. The German Con
sul general is said to have been the
landing spirit in the conspiracy.
Sume weeks ago an explosion occur
r???i on a British ship in the harbor at
Vancouver, B. C. It was understood
yesterday that the Secret. Service
agents of the Department of Justice
have developed evidence point
ing to the Implication of the roen
named In this explosion. It ls said
to have been ascertained that the ex
plosion was accomplished through the
ignition of a mass of ?gunpowder on
th? British vessel.
The Indictment against the other two
members of the German consulate force
and of the Turkish Consul General Hall
lovolv?es their alleged conspiracy in the
fitting but of th? steamer Sacramento,
which it now Interned lu a ?Chilean port.
The Baora mento cleared from San
Francisco Harbor several months ago
Tlie government has ascertain^ that
soon after her clearance she was taken
in command by the officer In charge of
the wireless aboard her. The govern
ment ls said to have evMence that this
wireless operator was a German naval
reserve officer. According to the gov
ernment's Information, the wireless op
erator took the ship ?slowly down the
Ameri-^an coast and when off th? north
east coast of South America proceeded
to get Into wireless communication with
?Herman warrifiipe then operating In the
Pa-lflc Ocean.
Tmemtr Utters I is die? e 4.
The Sacramento ia said to have Joined
the ?;ennan vessels as a result of an
un?1erstan?1fng reached through wireless
communication and the Germans con
voyed her to an island in the Pacific
under a show of compulsion. Her cargo
of food. ?*oaI and munitions, which It
is alleged was taken aboard for the
direct purpose of supplying the German
warships, was transferred to these ships
at the Island mention*?d.
According to the statements ma.le at
the Department of Justice, the Sacra
mento then continued her voyage to a
""hllean port and her commanding of
ficer ?stated on his arrival there that he
had been captured and deprived of
his cargo hy the German warships.
The Chilean government regarded the
circumstances as suspicious and ordered
the Internment of the vessel.
Twenty other persons besides those
named have been indicted In the Sacra
mento case by the grand Jury at .San
Francisco, lt was reported in the tele
gram received at the Department of
Justice yesterday.
San Francisco. Feb. ? ?The grand
jury haa voted new bills agatnst Bar
on Wilhelm von Bricn?*ken. attache of
the German consulate; Charles C.
Crowley and Mr.*? Margaret Cornelk,
agents of Consul Bopp. three of which
have already been indicted.
Among those who do not attain to
official importance who have been In
dicted are Johnnesan Koolergen. agent
of the German consulate, now in Jail
in Canada, who Ama rmmteamet tha? he
ne. raialoTrd hi I onaal Bopp to di
ssalila railroad lines In ranada and
.??snatrert homSs to be aeri to cripple
?sr d-r-arror ship?? hearing sappile? to
the elllem.
Closer Union of Italy
With Allies Predicted
Special CaM. tn Tha Waah.pftnea Hmld.
London, Feb. {$.?The Daily
News has received the follow
ing dispatch from R. Mackenzie,
its correspondent in Rome:
"I am officially informed that
Premier Briand's visit to Rome
is a prelude to events of excep
tional importance, affording fur
ther proof of Italy's permanent
closer union with the allies.
"This lias been strengthened
to such an extent that, outlast
ing the war, it will form the
basis of a future economic and
financial national policy.
"I have reason to believe that
an announcement soon will be
made which will remove all
doubts about Italy's attitude."
THEY FEAR NO
FOES OF U. S.
Miles and Blue Tell House
Invaders Would Be
Repelled.
GENERAL OPPOSES GARRISON
PLAN AND CONSCRIPTION
\dmiral Declares Navy Ready Now
to Meet Any Nation in
Battle on Pacific.
Opponente of President Wilson's de
fense bills were much cheered yester
lay by testimony given before House
committees by Gen. Nelson A. Miles. T'.
3. ?., retired, and Admiral Victor Blue,
Chief of the Bureau of Navigation. Th*
witnesses declared that the l'nited States
? prepared to resist successfully, both on
land and sea, invasion by any possible
;nemj'.
Gen. Miles, speaking before the House
Committee on Military AfTalrs. condemn
ed conscription, disapproved of the con
tinental army recommended by the Secre
tary of War, and declared that the coast
fortifications of the TTnited States were
"nual to those of any country in tho
world.
Speaking of the continental army Gen.
Miles said lt was "un-American," and
that the people of the United State?!
would never consent to "Germanising"
Its military establishment. Taking up
the question of Invasion Gen. Miles said:
"If 5t.rt.000 men were landed on either of
jur coa?ts, and we were not able to
raise enough men to drive them out, I
would want to move to another country."
"Over-seas expeditions, such as we are
told would succeed against the United
States, are expensive, and ara as a rule,
Usastrous," seid <ien. Mile?. 'Tf eub
lects were ordered by a European coun
try to cross the water to America, I be
lieve they would refuse to go because of
their fear uf m*?etlng a liberty-loving na
tion of men defending their own homes."
Gen. Miles expressed the belief that
conscription would never succeed in the
L'nited .states, and cited the draft riots
jf the civil war. He recommended ex
pansion ot the regular army, to a peace
oasis of 40.000 man, and advocated ex
pansion of the National Guard.
Admiral Blue testified before the Hones
Committee on Naval Affairs yesterday
that in the event of trouble in the Pacific
the American navy would be ready to
meet any navy In the Pacific Immediately
jpon Its transfer from the Atlantic.
The admiral told the committee that
he greatest need of the American navy
:oday la a reserve for ui*e In time of war.
?ie said that the navies of Prance. Ger
nany .and Japan were much better
quipped with officers than the American
establishment.
He said he was opposed toa short term
)f enlistment as recommended by Speak
er Clark In an adress on preparedness de
ivered in the House yesterday. He fa
ro red the present enlistment term of
"our years.
Former Kieff Chief Arrested.
Petrograd. Feb. 8.?An echo of the
famous Bellis case occurred today when
former Chief Mistshouk, of the KlefT
secret police, waa arrested after having
successfully eluded the authorities for
more than two years. Mistshouk has
been sentenced to one year's imprison
ment for palming off on Betlls various
alleged documentary proofs of the lat
ter's guilt.
German Peace Offers Rejected.
London, Feb. 8.?Reports that Ger
many had made ofTers of a separate
peace to both Russia and Japan have
been confirmed by Count Okuma. pre
mier of Japan, says an Exchange Tele
graph dispatch from Petrograd today.
The offers were peremptorily re
jected.
$30.000 Fire at Salem.
Sa lem. Mass., Feb. 8.?Fire early today
destroyed the building known as the
Armstrong Leather Mart, occupied by |
several leather firms. The loss was
SS^.OOO.
Engineer Killed in Wreck.
RaMgh. N. C, Feb. S?The engineer
was killed and a number of persons in
jured when a Seaboard Air IUne train
from Florida was wrecked near San
ford today. Ail the cars were overturn
ad.
U. S. NEED FEAR
NONE IN TRADE,
: SAYS REDFIELD
Secretary Tells U. S. Cham
ber of Commerce Country
Can Cope with Rivals.
ABLE TO HOLD ITS OWN
Says Alertness of Mind and
Keenness of Perception
Have Aided Americans.
Thero is no need for th*? United State?
to be afraid of < ierman y ?nd Great
Britain In the keen commercial rivalry
that Ih to follow the present war, accord
ing to Secretary of Common?**1 Redfleld,
Who last night Rt the New Willard ad
dressed a session of the fourth annual
convention of th? Chamber of Commerce
of the rnlted States.
Discussing commerce and what will
happen after the war, the Secretary de
clared that the l'nited States has two
great commercial rivals?Germany and
England. The methods of all three, he
said, aro as different aa the r-c-f^lt.
"Germany has applied the science of
research and oriranlzatlon to the secur
ing of forelsn trade," he declared.
"England, bulldog courage, backed by
unlimited free capital."
"The United State? ha? lacked both
science and free capital, but with alert
ness of mind and keenness of percep
tion, has built up a foreign trade of
more than $26,000,000."
Mr. Redfleld said the rivalry between
the countries, after the war, would con
tinue, but there was no reason for the
United SUtes to T>o afraid. The coun
try, he ?said. Is now annexing science,
along with business, but still would have
to place le.se distinction between ?science
and the practical
The Secretary graphically described
the wonderful organization of the Ger
man factories and Industries a* com
pared to the poor organisation of Ameri
can Industries.
At the conclusion of t%?* address he was
jlven a standing vote uf thanks by the
delegates. .
I rn pin* in*-? ? ? ? anger.**
President Ernest F. Nichols, of Dart
mouth College, spoke on a new position
!n the business world, "The Employment
.Manager," and decla.rod that thia 1? the
best remedy yet devised for curing the
malady of argument between owner and
labor. He related the great changes
that have occurred between the owner
and the laborer ln the past fifty years
and scored the Inattention of owners and
directors to the human element of their
business.
In asserting that the personal relation
between owner ?and laborer had ceased.
he said that business hae come to regard
labor as a commodity, yet the human
problem Is the greatest problem con
rrontlng business today.
In a statistical and literary address on
he "Malady of the Hallways" Howard
gffllott, president of the New York, New
Flaven and Hartford Railroad Company,
-irged the members to call a halt on
further burdening the railway systems at
his Urne.
President Elliott spoke with sreat
'rankness of the strlky now threatening
ill the railroads of the country and de
scribed In detail the handicape under
which the transportation linee are ?uf
'ering.
"Whatever the reason for the present
malady of the railways," said he. "two
facts stand out prominently in the history
if the railways of the United States for
the year 1915. One le that less mileage
fvas built In that year than in any year
?dnce 1864. There have been only three
riae? 1848. when there was a smaller mlle
???????? ON PAGE TWO.
Carranza Men
Nearing Revolt
Refugees From Chihuahua
Report Conditions Worse
Than Ever Before.
Spedai to The Waahinftoo Heralrl.
El Paso, Feb. 8.?Carranza soldiers
in Chlhaatuia City who are paid two
pesos In Carranza currency a day,
equal to eight cents In American
money, are threatening revolt and re
fuse to go In pursuit of Villa and Ins
bandits. Arrivals from Chihuahua
City today say about one hundred for
eigners there are preparing to get to
the border as quickly as possible.
The Carranza troops in Chihuahua
are le?s than 000 strong and are fIow
ly starving. The ?soldiers are practi
cally ln revolt.
Villa bandits are all around Chi
huahua, todays arrivals Bay, and the
city could easily be taken. Villa with
more than SOO men was reported mov
ing vpon the city. Under his orders
are a dozen smaller bands.
Austria Seizes Leather.
Zurich, Feb. 8.?A decree has been Is
sued by the Austro-Hungarian govern
ment confiscating all the leather ln the
dual monarchy.
Commerce Chamber Favors
Referendum on Prohibition
Before Congress Passes Law
Chap?n Brown Predicts Senate and House Will Adopt Local
Suffrage Provision Within Three Months and Vote May
Come to District in Four Years.
With but two dissent Ing votes, the
Chamber of Commerce last night went
on record In favor of referring the pro
hibition question to a referendum of the
people of the District before Congress
partees on prohibition. The question was
under consideration less than five min
utes.
Albert Schaltete, author of the resolu
tion, pointed out that the prohibition
question presented an opportunity for
the peoplo of the District to get In a
wedge for self-government. 8. T. Came
ron replied with the flat charge that
the referendum is nn attempt to defeat
prohibition.
The chamber applauded when ?^hanin
Brown, acting chairman of the ip< - ih!
suffrage commit t re, .reported that the
Senate und House probably will pass on
the bill giving the people of the District
representation In both houses of Con
gress and the electoral collece before
the end of thl? session.
"I thing It Is safe (o say," paid Mr
Brown, "that the Senate will sdopt the
bill within ninety days. Favorable ac
tion by the House Is expected almost im
mediately thereafter, so that at the end
of the present session of Congress we
will be able to put the question liefere the
State legislatures, for, being n ? amend
ment to lhe Confatitutlon. it muse be
ratified by three-fourths of the States.
"We then may reasonably e.xpect that
within four or six years, the pe-tple of
the District will ba\> two S'-nator? and
two Representatives in Congress and
rr pre i*enta tlon in the electoral college."
F?dward A. FMene. of the Boston
Chamber of Commerce, said it Is up to j
the business men of America to pre- J
pare for the economic strupgle that
will follow the war. 51r. Kilene de
dared that unless the nation? of Fu
rop-*\ in .sign in ?? pea ce t roaties. a ? ? ce
to arbitr?t** future troubles, the des
perate rivalry In preparedness will]
upset the boclal and economic stability ;
of the world.
"The campaign heretofore for the I
substitution of law for war haa been ?
based so mnch on sentiment and Im- j
practical theories," said Mr Fi le ne. ;
"that we business men sr?? afiaid to '
approach it aa a practical need snd
as a practical aay out of the prob- I
lema that will confront us after tn? j
war.
"Only Four Inches of Ankle
Ought Show"?Mrs. Edison
rifeci?! to Tit? Waaliingtoe Hen'V
Orange, N. J., Feb. 8.?"Grwou women
are going about In the present styles
looking like little girls. American
women show no originality in dress.
They all follow the dictates of fashion
blindly, whether the dress in vogue is
becoming to them or not.'*
This epitome on feminine attire wa?
given today by Mrs. Thomas A. Kelson,
wife of the w isard of Menlo Park. It
c-ame Immediately upon the efforts of
Mrs. Edieon and other clubwomen of
Orange to fight the extreme in drees.
Asked her opinion of the present style
of evening gowns, she replied:
"Anything that is indecent is unneces
sary. Such gowns are not beautiful,
they detract from that which le beau
tiful.
*'I am sure that men do not like them.
Men like to see things of beauty, and
nothing is more beautiful than a woman
becomingly and ?ensibly dreseed."
Reverting to street drese she said:
"Tt ls unbusiness-llke for women to go
about dressed like little girls. No dres?
ALLIES NEED
UNITED ACTION
War Expert Says Germany
Can Continue Strife Unless
Methods Change.
KAISER HAS 3,600,000 MEN IN
FIELD; 2,000,000 IN RESERVE
Asserts They Must Kill 230,000 Ger
mans Each Month to End Fighting
Next September.
By COI* RKPINGTON*.
Special Cable t-i The WMl?Dgtoo Hermld.
Ixmdon, Feb. 8.?Germany haa today in
the field armies of 3,600.(100 strength. She
has suffered 2.700,000 casualties and has
2.000.000 reserves still available for field
service.
The strength of the.se armies will not
begin to fail until the supply is exhaust-1
ed. H the Germans loso 250,000 men a]
month, they will exhaust their power ot
re-enforcement by September next. If ?
the rate of loss is 100,000 a month, then
the field armies can go on till February,
1917.
Finally, if we dispose of no more Ger
mans per month than we did during the?
month Just elapsed, namely, ?3(5,000, there j
Is no particular reason why we should j
set any particular term upon the war. !
If we insist upon fighting Turks, Bul-|
gars and what not. Instead of Germany, |
we make a great mistake. We have only!
one enemy tliat counts and whose falli
will bring his confederates down with!
him. We should concentrate upon him
and act against him offensively with all
our might.
This should be the cardinal plan of
the war, and victory is assured if we
pursue It relentlessly.
Kroiiom ft- Situation <>ood.
Paris. Feb. 8.?In an interview publish
ed in I<a MbCftai a well-known man-ifac
turer who has just returned from intern
ment in Germany, says:
"Germany has never lacked a supply of
MM99MT. She found a two-year supply in
the invaded regions of France.
"Wheat ls very scarce, but vegetables
are abundant and cheap. Meat la ex
tremely scarce, but coal is plentiful.
"It must not be expected that Germany
will ?raccumb to economic pressure. She
will be defeated only by the loss of un
told thousands of men, a loss already
acutely felt throughout the nation."
should be more than four lachea from;
the ground, though three Inches would '
be better. I am not against low cut
dresse?, so long as they axe within
reason.
The trouble with American women l?
that they show no originality. They all
dress alike, and look alike. They take a
model and all follow it blindly, whether
It becomes them or not.
"There is plenty uf scope within the
lines I have mentioned for women to use
their Judgment and originality in design
ing or ordering their gowna"
Mrs. Edison was shown the report of
the announcement made by the American
Importers' Association. Thla dec la reo
that the advance notices of fashion de
creed that "skirts will hang about IE
Inches above the ground."
"It Is disgusting," she declared.
"It Is to restore originality ln dress
within the limits of respectability ana
beauty that we sent out the note in
connection with the "Women's Club of
Orange Ball. I am glad to say that the
young girls are co-operating with ub
splendidly."'
RABIES SEIZES
CHIEF ENEMY
Dr. Was, Leader in Paterson
Fight Against Disease,
Hydrophobia Victim.
-r~
BITTEN BY MONGREL WHILE
GUARDING SISTER FROM IT
Father Asks Him to Hurry to Chicago
and He Is Reported in
Serious Condition.
(special to The tta?bli?t-on l?er? a
Paterson, N. J., Feb. 8.?Dr. .Francois
Was, of Paterson, the foremost speclallst
In hydrophobia in New Jersey, has fallen
a victim to the disease. In leading the
flght to stamp out the epidemic In Fater
son recently, he escaped unscathed.
Then, one day, while warding off an at
tack upon his sister by a mongrel dog,
ne was bitten.
Dr. Was beat off the animal and hur
riedly bandaged the wound. When he
reached home he called in another phy
sician, who cauterized it. On Sunday,
however, he began to display unmistak
able symptoms of hydrophobia.
Then Dr. Was sent a lone tetegram to
his father. Dr. Juan Was, a noted spe
cialist on rabies, in Chicago, describing
his condition. In reply the elder Dr. Was
ordered ids son to hurry to Chicago im- ?
mediately. He left Monday at midnight,
arriving in Chicago this alternoon.
He was in a serious condition when ho
departed?
Dr. Was aon national fame several i
months ago when he saved the life of
Miss Theresa Bender, 19 years old, of
Paterson. She was believed to be d> ing
from rabies, but Dr. Was cured her.
He treated five other cases in the
vicinity of Patersnn during the recent
epidemic, with the seme result.
Germane Entrenching in Balkans.
Athens. Feb. 8.? The newspaper Patrls
professed to have learned frcm semi-of
tlclal German sources that the German
attack on Saloniki is being abandoned
and trench warfare adopted instead.
Typhus in Mexico City.
New York, Feb. ii.?An epidemic or
typhus is raging in Mexico City and ?
pestilence of smallpox Is ravaging
Tampico, according to passengers who
arrived here today on the Ward Iin**r
.Esperanza from Vera Crua.
_?
Germany's Disavowal
Given in Inference
But Not in Words
President Wilson's friends
were confident last night that
the settlement of the Lusi
tania case would 1?c regarded
as a diplomatic victory ex
cept that phase relating to
the demand for a "disa
vowal."
Germany dues not acknowl
edge that the attack on the
Lusitania was illegal, but per
mit-? the inference l?i l>e
drawn that it was wrong to
destroy neutral lives ?-ince re
prisals should l>e conducted
so as not t?> impair neutral
rights.
While this admission does
not constitute the disavowal
in actual words the Presi
dent's advisers contend that
in effect it amounts to a ?lis
avowal when taken in connec
tion with Crcrmany's promise
to pay an indemnity.
ARMY OFFICER
FACES PROBE
Garrison to Investigate
Charges Maj. Langhorne
?Served the Kaiser.
ACCUSATION FOLLOWS UPON
SEIZURE OF VON PAPEN MAIL
State Department Also Considers Al
leged Slighting References to Amer
icans by German Counselor.
Secretar* of War Garrison ?aid ye?
terday he would make an immediate
investigation of charge? that MaJ
George T. Langhorne delivered official
communications to Capt. Fran? Ton
Papon at the German Embassy when
he returned laut summer from Ger
many after serving as military attache
of the Cnited States Embassy at Ber
lin.
If these charges are shown to have
any basis Secretary Garrison ?says he
will order a trial of MaJ L*nghorne hy
court martial.
Letter? selied by the British govern
ment from Capt. von Papen while en I
route to Berlin after his recall from
the German Embassy here are said to
refer to communications carried by
MaJ. Langhorne to the German attache.
The State Department also la con
sidering letters from Prince von Hatz
feldt Trackenberg. present counselor !
of the German Embassy here, pub
lished with the Von Papen correspon
dence, and alleged to refer In a slight
ing manner to Americans.
Langhorne. (aar Serious.
War Department officials said today
that the caee of MaJ. Langhorne Is one
of serious nature, as the charge now
made Is substantially that of taking In
formation through enemy Unes. 9
Gen. Hugh Scott, Chief of Staff of the
Army; Gen. Enoch t**row.ler. Judge Advo
cate General, and Assistant Secretary of
War Breckinrldge were ln conference
yesterday afternoon. It Is understood
that MaJ. I,anghorne*s rase was consid
ered.
There has been deep mystery about the
case of MaJ. Langhorne ever since his
return from Berlin last summer. It was
generally understood at the time that he
had been recalled, but Secretary Garrison
never would admit It.
War Department officials said yester
day a gT*eat deal would depend on the
nature of the communications Maj.
I.onghorne ts charged with having deliv
ered to Capt. von Papen. If they were
merely personal letters, sent through him
as a matter of convenience, owing to the
censorship and delay to which mail from
Berlin ls sul?J?*-cted, officials said the Issue
would not he so grave.
Expel? Jews From Moscow.
. jscow. Feb. 6?Tlie police have raid
ed various public institutions, including
the stock exchange, looking for Jews
who have no right to live here. They
rounded up 800, who were expell?sd from
the city. Pensa and Symblr. suburbs of
Moscow, have been declar-ed closed
against the Jews.
London Rector Declines Call.
New York. Feb. R.?Rev. Dr. James
Holden, rector of St. Paul's. London, bas
declined the cell to the rectorship of 8t
James Episcopal church, Madison avenue
aiifl Seventy-iirst street. A cable mes
sage was received by the veatry tonight
announcing his deciMon.
Kaiser Seeks Latins as Friend?
lxuvdon. Feb. & ? Acceding to a Or*
News dispatch from Berne, a Otr .,
rropa/xund'st society has been eetabllah
ed at Stuttgart f ?r the special purp-i
of Influencing opinion in Spain and South
America.
Fitina??Superior ?ervlee via ttlcalle
?'oast Une: "?. Y. * Florida Special"
leaves 8:11? p. m dally. 3 other aJI-steei ltd.
trstns dally. Office, MM ?. Y ave. nw.
?Ad ?
LUSITANIA CASE ENDED
BY TEUTON SURRENDER'
TO AMERICAN DEMANDS
-
Bsrlin's Proposals Accepted as 'Fully Meeting'
The Requirements of United States for
Disavowal of Sinking of Liner.
UNJUSTIFIABLE; HENCE ILLEGAL
Concessions of Berlin Satisfactory to State Department
Teutons Admit Reprisals Against Neutrals Are Not
Justifiable?U. S. Draws Conclusion. /
Terms of German Concession to
Demands Made by United States
The Washington Herald has learned on the highest authority that
the terms of the settlement reached by the United State? and Ger
many are:
First. Germany admits that acts of retaliation are wrong when
they- affect neutrals. Applied to the Lusitania case, thil is an admis
sion by Germany that the Muir?an of the vessel was not justified. It
is <?cccpted by the United States as an admission of illegality, as this
government holds reprisals illegal.
Second. An offer is made to pay tuli indemnity for the Lusitania
dead, not as an act of grace, but as an obligation.
Third. Germany repeals her pledge that unarmed merchantmea
will nut be sunk with.?ut warning and without pro-a-iding for safety of
passengers and crews, providing they do not try to escape or offer
resistance, making a recurrence of a tragedy such as the Lusitania
sinking impossible.
Fourth. An expression ?if deepest regret is made for the lost of
American lives on the Lusitania.
Fifth. Attention is called to th?? fact that, out of deference for
the friendship of the United States, and to meet the wishes of this
government, Germany practically has given up submarine warfare.
Sixth. Germany accepts the invitation extended in the note of
July 21 to co-operate with the l'nited States in achieving freedom of
the seas, and is ready to act at any time in this direction.
The l'nited State*? and Germany arrived at a settlement of the
Lusitania case yesterday, nine months to the day from the sinking of
the vessel off the Irish coast with the loss of 114 Amerrcam.
AM that remains is for Germany u? decide whether her proposals
shall be submitted in a note from the Berlin fi-reign office. <?r whether
Count von Bernstorff, the Gentian Ambassador, shall sign the tnerruv
rand-um submitted to the State Department or. Friday.
Count von Bernstorff \a-i night sent a wireless to Berlin to arrange
this detail.
President Wilson gave his approval to the German proposals at
an hour"s ?conference with Secretary lansing before the Cibinet meet
ing yesterday morning. Later the Cabinet approved his .course.
"Golf Ended Taft
Career"---Foraker
Former Senators Book Ac
cuses Herrmann and C. P.
Taft of "Double-Crossing."
Sppri&j to The V\ t4uDt? HTaC '.
Cincinnati. Feb. * ? Joseph Beru^n l'or
aker. former United State* Senator, hu?
written the ?tory of his life, in which
he let? the public behind the Boema <-f
national and Stai*1 polititi.
lie accuses leaders of the Hamilton)
County Republican organization of fri vine
him the "double ?ros?" and by way of
proof flashes a telegram he ?aye August
Henrnann aent Charles P. Taft, promising
the support of the Hamilton County men
to former President Taft, though ap-?
parent'.y supporting the Foraker boom, j
Too much golfing and too much travel- |
Ing are what helped spell the finish of
former President Taft a political career, ;
he says.
Foraker accuses Taft of ingratitude and
points out that he etarted Taft on his
public career, when, ae governor, he ap
uointed Taft Judge of the Supreme Court
of Cincinnati. Taft was among those
responsible for the retirement of Foraker.
_
QUAKE HITS CANAL ZONE.
Fourteen Mlnntn Shook frit In
I'd r it ii. ?*? >? ??-? ? mi ? - none.
Panama, Feb. 8?A aharp earthquake
shock shook this city and the canal son?
at 11:08 o'clock thia morning.
It lasted fourteen minutes, .but did no!
damage.
Th?- shock waa centered on the Pacific
In the vicinity of Ixwsantot province.
Carranza EestncU Immigration.
Quen-taro, Me?L, Feb. S.?Oen. Venusti -
nno Carransa, flrst chief of the con
stitutionalists, ha? issued a decree that
no foreigner will * lx allowed to enter
Mexico unleaa he possesses $oO in gold.
Free Ridei for Strap Hanyer?.
Albany. N T.. Feb. a ?All passengers
on railroad trains must be fumish?ed with
s*-ats. or railroad companies wUl be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, ac
cording to a bill Introduced today by
Assemblyman Coffey. If unable to obtain
?eau passengers may ride free.
"Dead" Man Made Postmaster.
Holland. Mich . Feb H.? The l'nited j
States Senate yeeterday confirmed tht
nomination of Allee Toppen to be post
master here. Toppen died February 1 of ,
tbe g-rip. ?
The German Ambassador waa the*
notifVd of the administration's division.
At 4.? he went to the fatate Depe imtat
for a tarent? -Uve minute intertrlew ?artth
Secretary lineine At this ronferenc? ?
waa arrans?-?l that Germany'? pi iijni? \t
shall be submitted te a formal ooro
muniation. which will brinaf th? negotta
tlona to iati < nd.
Tbe German rnvernment ? proposals ars
acceptapd as fully malting tbe demands of
tbe l'nited states for ?iisaa-owwi of ths
Lueltanla attack, reparation for Amari,
can Harp loat. and pli-dge? of futura con?
duct.
Illeaaalll. -i.l ?4ajaltte4
On th- otlier lmn?i the Gsnsaui tvmtf
ment river, tta dlaavcwal without mak
ing the express ail mlaa ?? ? that th? act
of it. submarine a-pminanfler tn sinking
the lAiHtanla aa a reprisai was 11!acal
Th.- ?hole ijiaatrixmirl battwaaas tk?
t'nited Slat?* and Germany slaea tba
settlement of the Arabic
9 last, haa been oarer tha first of
demanda, thst of diaa roa al
Hummed up In on* sentence the demand
of the fuite?! etatea was that Germany
ahould "disavow the wanton act of tt?
naval commander In sinking? tli? ljosl
tanta." and "offer reparation for th?
American I!vea loa?, ao far a? reparation
fan be made for a needle?? deetr-iK-ti????
of human li'e by an tllaaaaal act "
German.? fi-om the ?Iran holal that ah?
could not specifically dlsseow tha act.
he-cause ahe had ortlered su terra? fine ootn
mandera to sink enemy a-isaels ta Oa?
war son? as a reprisal against what atta
coiwkiered sn llleral art of t*? aimt m
Mlabllshlnc a food blorkad? In other
words, the German gorerntnsaat could ?ot
aiaavow an art which had been au
thorised
Vlr<.aa?l Aataaalaalaa Maate.
This broiught up the question of tKs
legality or illegality of retaliation
ngalmt an illegal art ol an enemy, .ami
for five months th? ?aontroarersy had
waged over this point. -Germ-any in the
meanwhile had aettled the question of
reparation and had given pledge? of ta
ture conduct in submarine operations
The t'nited State? holds that reprisal*
arhlle sometimes Justifiable, are T>ea-er
legal Germany admits that repriaala ar?
not -ustlltavbl.- when dlrr?-tad agalnat ne?,
trai? Th? l.usttania attack. l?elng di
rected against neutrals, as weil as bel
llserents. therefore was illsasal tn the ?yea
of the t'nited State, and ?a? admitted
by Germans to he unJaellAabW Tha
l'nited Slates holds that an a?-t caau>at
be unjuatlflsble without being III???!, satt
accepts this as sn adm!aai<>n of 0 lega 111 y.
Since th- t nited Statea haa
In all ita notes thst an aat
an act Is retaliaur? la In sil artas Um at
Illegality, and the Gertrasa gov.i nintt
does not conta? thi.? point ther? la aod
rd reaaaon In this government's ariew t?
urunK that It Is esublt-alMd aa
