H
FINANCIAL EDITION
NIGHT
EXTRA
uenittn
BJrtiger
NIGHT
EXTRA
JC
vob-ii-0-127
PniLADEIiPHIA, WEDNESDAY, JjUSBIlUAltY 9, 1J)1G.
CoriitstiT, 1010, at the r colic Lkdoeh Commni
PRICE ONE GENT
"NEW TARIFF BILL
DOESN'T MENTION
ANY PROTECTION
' --Measure in Congress Filled
: -tyith Flans to .uncum
. age" Industry
CREATES A COMMISSION
v .
i'GlvcAhc Body Broad Powers.
Administration uacKs nun w
, "Organize Permanent Board
cm Duties of Proposed
Tariff Boat'd Members
Investigate and recommend to
Congress the encouragement of
Xnuircnto industrmlcondltions
it home and abroad nnd rccom
l'd rendjustment of tariff duties.
AWt tlio Federal Trade Com
mission in "prevcntinK the dump
Eg of foreign products upon the
American' market, in unfair and
destructive competition.
Investigate relations of duties
on row and "isncd Products and
'tariff classifications.
Investigate industrial and rev
enue producing "effect of duties,
conditions of competition between
American and foreign producers,'
.j'i. in,vnnrnwR nnd disadvan-
tagcs of American producers.
v WASHINGTON, Fob. 9. Tho Admlnls-
tra.Uqns views ana iimna ui ... "
commission were today laid before Con
ss A now bill, differing materially
from tho measures nlrondy introduced
ind creating a commission with broad
Mfferscxtendlng far beyond tho tarlrt-L
ms Introduced Jn tho House by Repre
sentative Dorcmus, of Michigan, who is
chairman of the Democratic Congres
sional Campaign Committee.
Dorcmus, one of tho original Tariff
Commission Demoernls, has been in closo
touch with Secretary of tho Treasury
SicAdoo nnd other Administration or
llclals since the President nnnounccrt him
self Iri favor of tho scheme.
1$ ' PIAN TO MEET ARGUMKNTS.
f A.. r AMiic Villi tu flnalrvnod 'tr nifM
B'f . . .a .Ill, t - u.- - A al4tlm linirn
11 rtr inn nnimnni iiririiiiiiiiiN ivimlii ntivu
? lcrn directed ngnlnst the Democratic
.tirllMaw. It wouiu open tno wny ior a
iMirniirh revision of tho tnrlff in almost
Kf-wV. direction, and to filled with plans
9 for the "encourngement" of Amorlcnn In-
.du'strr. Nowhero In thfe bill Is the pro
tlm nnllcv. tho dread of tho Domo-
.mh. mentioned, nut there nro broad
P- Mnts'ot "preventing unfnlr and dostruc-
RiuWhflo ho omclnl Indorsement tor tho
El. . '"A -. t.MAt llm rtniwmna
i&neajrare was accented as voicing tho Ad-
"mlfflatration'B plan. It, with nil other
Sjt'.tarjltcommlsslon bills, will be taken up by
ft--wa uciuocrais ot ino iiuusu ivjh mm
Esklteans Commltteo on Thursday.
gt The bill provides for a commission or
Pj.llVe. no more than three of o'no political
party, 10 oe numeq uy mc ru-aiutuu
VEirh wmilil renelve a snlarv of $10,000 and
l-I would devote his whole time to the com-
mission. The powers or tho commission
h would ho limited to investigation, and
tHports to Congress nnd tho JJresldont.
A AIMS OP THE MEASURE.
..Ahe bill would authorize tho com-
LJ, fission:
i tfo invesugato and .rccommena to i;on
"rrpsa the encourngement of now ln-
dustrlea.
" "To Investigate Industrial conditions at
pjkojpe and abroad and recommend rcad-
jusfuienui oi uinu uuuea. v
- Ti recommend maximum and minimum
F- UriB rates, leaving tho Federal Trade
commission to fix tho rates between the
established limits.
To assist tho Fedora! Trade. Commls-
l' tlm i'p "preventing tho dumping of for-
cifn. prouucis upon tno American mancet
la unfair and destructive competition."
To investigate .the relations of duties
W raw and finished prqducta nnd tariff
classifications.
To Investigate tariff .relations between
too. United States and' other countries,
jport bounties and preferential trans
lation rates." t
To Investigate tho industrial and rave-
Ullfl nroduclncf "nffont nf fllitli.!! i.nni!l.
v Ul!'!s n,l competition between Amorlcnn
.m roreign producers," and the "advan-
tea and disadvantages of American pro
f uj era."
j- To investigate price differences in Amer
jKJfl and foreign markets.
b ouuining these powers the bill in
cludes fiVCrv nnlnt nf tnrlff itnni,nv.iDv
P!!c,h llas tpen Injected Inta national
Si; politics since the Underwood law wns
VHCU, x
!' THT W.TT.AT'TT-mT?
7i 'lttLLIT h.in han nnntilrliiral liamtnnvn
S IC10Si OntlrAlv ft-n .. ..I1A
m&H Feali talk of Its JielnB a, good or
IW v4y' and caU UP tl Weather Bureau
m and put If next Friday's going to be
a'k WWn It's being a fine night, or
bfsu v """""sr lumorrow nigni win ne
ESt1.r. arry Yet for tne Krcat ma-
ieSiirti S n mgiivu tne ;nmg that
I-abnt worn oy aay ana pmy o-
rSfiiT Aml lt ,s mt""B Important to know
itintlJ yqu .??" walk your girl to the
tf o" win have t0 ta,a hej. ,u a
itfii . . H ,a l0 now whether you will
BnL "' " "? "inuows upon sneets or
NKL .3Jreaks of tempting sunshine.
i?Q..l .us s. flne t walk arm lit arm
Stiai ?J ic,ear' Bano Btars- '"stead of
E, tavik UV" a vemcie. All those
m Sri' have been complaining of the
fc iv.!r'!ul- Qo up on the roof and look at
Pitati .. ...blazlns wonders overhead.
V tmthMi v . catum and Venus, or
SVwo?dy' e conjunctlvltls-thaua not
k ,W , .bfcut ,tB something like it. At
r p tne get their heads together.
1 wuaerlng; but the stars guide.
EVl 13 Tr A cm
h9 .Philadelphia and
vicinity
l&&'W 'JZW Thurriai.
fuu' waTZL.' ymignt ana rnurs-
-' o I'uyo n
IlOST ANT1 T?OTTTJT
u. fa fiOOtob cqIIIb doir. lahl. an urkl,.
S?; Sta. ana WtaSEtlu.n.
s4 na A, w j-tt
GERMAN CRUISER ROON AND HER CAPTOk
h
The upper
picture shows tho raider reported to have been enptured off
ulKi which ulnars
GERMANS TAKE
FRENCH POSITION
WEST OF VIMY
Eight Hundred Yards of
Trenches Captured, Says
Berlin War Office
AEROPLANE DESTROYED
BERLIN, Feb. 0.
German troops have captured by storm
all tho first lino French tronches over n
front SOD yards long In tho region imme
diately west of Vlmy, It was officially announced-
today by tho War Office. ,
It Is admitted that tho French wcro
ablo to penetrate a position which had
been captured from tho French south of
tho Somme.
AnoUior French aeroplane has bcen.de
stroj'cd at Trlestwald (Bols lo' P'rctre). '"
Following Is the Gorman official report:
"West of Vimy .wo took by storm the
first lino of French positions over a front
of E00 yards. Ono hundred prlsonern nnd
llvo 'French guns were captured. South
of tho Sommo River tho French, during
n night attnek, wore nblo to repenetrate
a small German trench section.
"At tho Bols lo I'.retre (Prlestwnld) an
enemy aeroplane was set on tiro and shot
to earth. Tho two occupants wero killed."
(Vimy Is in Artofs, four miles south
of Lens and llvo miles northeast ot
Arras.)
PARIS ASSERTS LOST
1 POSITIONS ARE RETAKEN
Germans Driven From La Folio Lines
. Which Thoy Penetrated
" PARIS, Feb. O.n
Tho gigantic struggle between the
Allies and Germnns in Artols Is continu
ing night and day, with both infantry
jiml nrtillery employed. The struggle is
particularly severe Immediately north pf
Arras and west of Ncuvllle St. Vnast.
The French War Olllce, In nn olllclal
communique- today, ndmltted that the
Germans wero nble to penetrate somo of
tho positions of tho French, hut were
later driven back to their own lines.
Following is the text of the com
munique: "In Artols thcro la great nrtillory ac
tivity on both sfdes, especially on tho
front from Hill No, 110 to tho Neuville-
St. Vaast road and, in tho region of La
Folle. '
"Late In the afternoon on Tuesday the
Germana exploded two mines which were
very heavily charged with explosives.
"To the west of. La Folio tho enemy sue
cefded In penetrating some of our
trenches, but wo afterward regained the
lost ground by means of counter attacks
In which hand grenades wero used.
"Fighting continued all night.
"South of the Sommo nivcr wo haye
bombarded the German trenches.
"In the Yosses an artillery duel de
veloped In tho region of Hnrtmanns
wellerkopf. "On the rest of the front the night wus
calm." r
BATORIEITALIANE
A NORD DI LANDRO?
Si Crede Che Tra Non Molto
l'ltalia Dichiarera' la Guerra
alia GermanJa
II comunicato uffloialo pubbllcato lerl
sera dal Mlnistero della guerra a Roma
dice che sulla fronts Italo-austrlaca si
sono avute azloni d) artigllerla e che le
batterle itallano hanno bonibarddto cort
successo la princlpala via dl comunica
zione dolla Prava. Evldentemente si
tratta o della yallo della Illeni e di quella
del Sexten, e plu' probabllmente della
prlrha, che e' la plu Importante. Le forie
Itallane In nuel seUore oporano nelle
opere dl Landro. una delle quail, U forte
dl Schluderbach, e' stato smantellato da
narecchio tempo. Non e' Improbabllo ohe
batterle Itallane siano rluselte a oqrtarsl
iulle alture a nord-ovest dl Landro e dl
la' abblano bombardatl le retrovie-aus-trlache
verso la base dtToblach.
Telegramml da Parlgl dlcono che II
nresldente del ConalgllO francese, Arls
tlde Brland, e' partlto Insleme con 11 min
litro Thomas e con I-eone Bourgeois alia
volta dl Roma dove conferira' con Sa
landra e Sonnino ajlonde pot si rechera'
alia frpnte a conferlre con II r e con il
generaTe Cadorpa. A proposito dl qjw a
?Uita al dloe cho al'aapetta che l'ltalia
dlehlari tra noo molto la guerra alia
3rmanla s parteclpi alle operaxlonl rnlU
tart degU allatl b1 BaUaaL .
(LaggWe ui a pgln le uUtwe e Dlu'
dttaSate nottiM uUa, sami, Ja ital-tanoT
Hv
vsi! ."
x'4?f
m .. -- -v j
uciow. ino urako is about iuuu tons
.--i;.,; . Dtf
nil ,vv?'1 B
I ' B B i B 'iBLa ' '
RCTISH CRUISER CAPTURES
SAN RAM
HOUR FMT
Drake Brings Roon Into Island Port.
English Lose One Officer and l
Eighteen Men Teuton Loss
Is One-Third of Crew
NEW YORK, Feb. 9.
Tho New York Glolje declared this afternoon that it has received a
code message from Bermuda, stating that the German warship Roon, alleged
commerce raider, has been captured by tho British battleship Drake after
a three-hour fight 200 miles cast-northeast of Bermuda.-Two merchantmen,
o.nppfjth'cm .armed', were captured "with ,tlu?ir6wi, it wns stated.
Tho Globe said it was unable to make public the source of its informa
tion, but quoted the following message said to be from Bermuda:
Drake here today towing Roon. Took her 200 knots cast-northeast
Bermuda; three hours' running fight. L,ost Danforth, 18 men.
Her losses about one-third. Struck as we came abeam. Two mer
chantmen with her, ono armed. Took both. Brought here. Sea
grave on sighting Roon said, "Please God, today I will avenge
Craddock (Admiral Graddock, vho3c squadron was destroyed by the
Germans). Roon badly knocked about by 9.2. Thirty-two officers
and 719 men taken in the three .prizes."
"Scagravc," according to the Globe, is probably Captain Seagravc, who
was with Admiral Craddock, but later was in command of the Bacchante.
"Danforth," tho Globe says, probably is a torpedo lieutenant.
Naval registers show that tho Drake, a 14,000-ton cruiser built about 15
years ago, carries as her heaviest armament two 9.2-inch guns, tho caliber
mentioned in the dispatch the Globe, says it received.
Tho Roon is ono of the Germnn warships charged with tho recent capture
of tho Appam and other British merchantmen. It displac6s 9050 tons, is 403
feet long at tho water line, has a beam of C5 leef and draws Won leet.
The Roon was built in 1903 and is n sister ship ofs,th'o.;Yorck. Its armament
consists of four 8.2-inch guns, 10 C-inch guns, 14 24-poiinders, four machino
guns and four submerged i8-inch torpedo tubes. ' i
Officials of the British consulate hero say 'they haye.no information. A
;i.v.
' Continued on'l'aae l'mir, Column Three
"YOUNG JACK" HANLON,
"PUG,,; SHOOTS WAITER
Saloon Fight Early Today May
Result Fatally Han
Ion Held
"Young Jack" Hanlon, n pugilist, was
held by Slaglstrato Beaton today In cen
tral station on tho charge of havlninjiot
and seriously -wounded Frank Kfelow
klas, 23 years old. In a barroom fight In
Bovan's saloon, 33 North 11th street.
Kaglowklas la In the Hahnemann Hos
pital aliot In the abdomen. Physicians
have probed for the bullet, but cannot
find It.
Kaglowklas Is a waiter In Bevan'a and
lives at 1203 'North street. According to
witnesses, Hanlon entered tho saloon at
2 o clock mis morning aim miuwcu a.
militant disposition.
A dispute followed between the pugilist
and Kaglowklas. and the argument waxed
bitter. Then suddenly, according to pa
trons of the saloon, Hanlon, instead of
using his llsta as ho- has done so effec
tively In the ring on many occasions,
drew a revolver and flred at the waiter.
Kaglowklaa fell.
i Hanlon was dlsapned'by Policeman
Archer, of tho llth and Winter streats
station,, and placed under arrest.
MRS. RUSSELL HURT SKATING
Wife of Navy Yard Commandant Suf
fers Fracture! Cheekbone
Ir. Bobert U Russell, wfe of Captain
Russoil, commandant of the League
Island Navy Yard, fractured a oheek
bone and avrely bruisd her face by
falling while skating at the navy, yard.
Mrs. Itussell ami several friends wero
skating on Ice formed by lloodlni the
tennis courts near her home yesterday
afternoon, when one of her skates came
off unexpectedly and she fell, striking
her face. .
pr. W. H. Bell, the navy yard physl-
clan, treated the injuries.
Factory Inspector Appointed
HARB1SBURQ, FeA . - Uvinii.tone
Saybjr. of PotUtowu. was uppolnteU fac
ty inspector today by CoavBUalener
John Pries Jackson,
M
Bermuda by the British cruiser
Heavier than tho Koon.
OFF BERMUDA
VIRGINIAN HAS BILL
'TO LENGTHEN SKIRTS
Also Forbids Women to Show
Mor"e Than Three Inches
'. . of Neck
RICHMOND,
Va.;Uiob. S.-Caplaln W.
M, Mvers,'-dehig
Bate I?om Richmond, of-
foreijT,' bill InNtheVffglnla Legislature
nrlfk t .In earn! to ta wnman'a olnMlllliv
Tho bill, which; was Iri the form of an
amendment to th$ untli-lsunce measure,
makes It unlawful for, an' woman In Vlr
glnlu to wtu'r-a skirt the hem of which
is more than-four Inches from tho ground.
a bodice or shirtwaist showing mora than
three inches of neck, arid it Is further
provided that no woman shall wear
clothes of transparent texture.
Delegate Myers, said he wished to pro
tect men. He wished to -curb and abate
"Broad street silhouettes, which he said
are less dccnj than nudity and which
tend to corrupt and destroy? publlp morula.
MATCilEl,TWO HOYS; ONE DIES
Oamden jhree-year-old Succumbs to
BurnsiPhiladelphiajChild in a
Serious Condition
Onei child J$4,tpday and another may
die bqcapsaAhey; played with matches.
Tbiee-yeac-ald 'Henry Lapp, of HIT
North 21t strfg, Camden, died at vthe
Cpter Hoaeltajrln thajStclty, thla morn
lng,after .Mtjjng himself on fire yester
day. Plea'flld Allen Wodarcyk, of
3110, MllleJueet. today Ignited tils cloth
lag with matches whlla'hU two older sla
ters werjfjelng dre&ied'for school.
U-yrf-.Qld sister. Annie, helped her
mother beat out' tint llamfe and then rode
Nn the police patrol with Oie burned chllil
.v . ,fp4m w).iif. tiiwumi liar
hands were burned, the girl refused to be
treated until physicians had cared for
her small brother. He Is In a critical
condition.
Rector Alters Ritual; Vestrymen Quit
NORRISTOWN. IV. Feb. . Because
the B.v. Bdward Nettle, ractor ot All
Salnta HpyeopaJ Church, iangxd the rit
ual, flye vestrymeu. thro of them serv
ing for 39 yearn, tuve resiantd. Tby are
Jacob D. Ballad. WiUUw Wood. Van
tfaurgea Tyler, David Halliaan and Lsrauol
V
i HA- s .' x."
THORNE CHARGES
BREACH OF FAITH
BY L. DJ8RANDEIS
Iowa Commissioner Ac
cuses Nominee of Be
trayal of Trust
REVIEWS BIG RATE CASE
Says Lawyer's Admission
suited in Victory for
Railroads
Re.
Accused of Betraying Trust
in Railroad Rate Case
"I charge Louis D. Brandcis is
guilty of breach of faith that ho
betrayed a trust in one of tho grav
est nnd most important cases over
tried in this country tho 5 per
cent, railroad rate case." Clifford
Thome.
WASHINGTON, Feb. !l. -Grave chnrges
ngnlnst trills D, llrnudeii, nominated by
President Wilson iih Supremo Court Jus
tice, were made nl :i public hearing today
beforo a subcommittee of the Scnato Judi
ciary Committee. Clifford Thome, chair
man of the Iowa I'allrnad Commission,
caused n sensation when he deliberately
told the committee Hint ho believed the
President's cnndldato guilty of:
First. Infidelity, breach of fnltfi and
unprofessional conduct In connection with
one of tho greatest rases ot this genera
tion. Second. Committing himself, as counsel
for the Interstate Commerce Commission,
to tho proposed proposition that a return
of "Ms per cent, on rullroad capital wa3
not adequate, although the commission
Itself had llxcd that rate as an adequate,
profit.
'Tho charge.-", delivered In u calm, de
liberate tofie, took away the breath of tho
folcmn Senate Subcomlttee nnd made the
crowd In the commlttceroom gasp. Thome
revlowcd In detail tho conduct of himself
nnd liramlels In the railroad rato case of
1910 and 1013 beforo the Interstate Com
merce Commission. Ho sought to show
that Mr. Brandels, after acting for the
shippers In 1910, had becomo attorney
for the commission In 1913 nnd had not
acted In good faith. Tho object of his
testimony was to show that tho conduct
of Brandcis was unbecoming a lawyer ot
"Judicial temperament," and that on mil
road questions the Supremo Court candi
date was already committed and would
not ho nblo to act judicially if such ques
tions came beforo him as a judge of tho
highest court.
"I charge Louis r. Brandcis Is guilty
of breach of faith that he betrayed a
trust in ono of tho gravest nnd most im
portant cases over tried in tills 'country
Continued on Pnce Sit, Column Two
SCHOOL STRIKERS'
PARENTS WILL BE
FINED OR JAILED
Ultimatum From Bureau
of Compulsory Education
Mets Defiance
'WE'LL PAY !' CRY FATHERS
Suit to Reinstate
Sowdenta Certainty
The Parents' Committee in
charge of tho movement to have
William II, Sowden reinstated as
principal of tho Fitler School, Ger
mantown, will anneal to the courts,
according to William C. Lynch,
5016 Newhnll street, chairman of
the committee, who declared this
afternoon that a suit in equity
would bo instituted by the fathers
of the striking pupils. This was a
certainty, ho said, as the members
of the committeo had expressed
themselves almost unanimously in
favor of such action.
The Bureau of Compulsory Education
has sent an ultimatum to the parents ot
the school strikers of Qermantown. They
will be subject to tine and, in tho event
of failure to pay tho fine, Imprisonment,
if their children do not ut once return to
their classes In the Fitler School, Sey
mour nnd Knox streets, Germantown.
The ultimatum met with defiance, open
ly expressed by a number of parents,
"We'll pay the fines," they said, but
they won't be able to find a magistrate in
Philadelphia who will be willing to fine
us." '
Two hundred of the 1011 children on the
rolls of the school failed to attend this
morning's session. The names of CO strik
ers were reported by MIss..Margnret L.
Gill to the Bureau ot Compulsory Educa
tion. These 60 aro considered ringleaders,'
Henry J. uideon, cnier or tne Bureau,
said he would send preliminary notices
to the parents, warning them to send their
children back to school, and if these Were
obeyed the complaints would be dropped,
he said.
If not, the parents would be taken be
fore a Magistrate to pay the usual fine
of $7.50 and costs, W In all. If they
failed to pay the fines they would have to
go to prison, two days for eaoh dollar
of the line, -or 15 days.
When Mr. Gideon was told that the par
ents were saying no magistrate would
Continued en I'age H. Column Two
Recommended for Police Magistrates
BALTIMORE, Md., Feb. 9. Howard P.
Hartman and John H. Bitner are the
men recommended to Governor. Harring
ton for appointment as police magistrates
of Hagerstown by the Democratic party
organisation- The olttcea are now flllii
by Justice Daniel V. Doub. noted for
handing out a temperance speech with
nearly every fine, and John Ankeney, Re
publicans. Dr. 4 H. Wade la new head
of Democratic committee, succeeding
Job B- Sweeney, recently appointed
PtmUiuwUr.
QUICK
LINCOLN. SPY, REPORTED ON WAY TO EUROPE
LONDON, Feb. O.Ignntlus Trebltsch Lincoln, former meinbcV
of the British Parliament, who escaped from the Federal authorities
in Now ork while wanted here on the charge of being a German spy,
is en route to Europe, traveling incognito, nccQrdlng to nn uncon
firmed report here this nfternoon.
RUSSIANS REPULSED AT ILLUXT
BERLIN, Feb. 0. "Russian attacks at Illut and against tho
guard post captured by us on theBarauovHch-Ljacjhowltscli Railway
were repulsed," the War Office reports. '
FARRADAY SUCCEEDS GRONE IN P. R. R.
The Board of Directors of tho Pennsylvania Railroad met this morning"
and elected to tho position of nnsistant purchnslnp; agent W. H. Fnrraday. Tho
former occupant ot tho position was George H. Gronc, who resigned on the
llrst of tho year to enter business in Now York.
PERSIANS RETAKE TOWN; SLAVS PUT TO FLIGHT
BKULIN, Feb. 9. Persian troops, under command of Governor Hnldar Boy,
liavo recaptured Snndshbtilalc, defeating tho Russians in a severe battle,
according to Constantinople reports today. The Slavs retreated in disorder.
TURK SUBMARINE SHELLED BY SLAV CRUISER
PKTROGRAD, Feb. 9. A Turkish submarine which attacked a Russian
pquadron off the Anatolian coast was heavily bombarded, by tho cruiser Suya
uftcr making an unsuccessful attempt to torpedo tho cruiser. Russian torpedo
boats then shelled tho submarine, which submerged while Btlll under fire.
Whether the submarine was sunk Is unknown.
TEN-YEAR PROTECTORATE FOR HAITI FAVORED
AVASHINGTON, Feb. 9. Hy unanimous votp the Scnato Foreign Rela
tions Committee today favorably reported tho treaty with Haiti to establish
a ten-year protectorate over the republic.
AMERICAN CORRESPONDENTS TO TOUR GERMAN FRONT
BERLIN. Feb. 9. As evidenco that Gcrmnny now hopes for a satisfactory
outcome of tho Lusltnnia negotiations, all American correspondents wcro toda"y
invited on a three-day tour of tho German front, beginning; February 15. It
was pointed out that tho Invitation hnrdly would have been extended had not
officials been convinced thatvthero was no danger of a rupturo of friendly
relations between tho two countries. v
.ALLIES TO SUPPLY ITALY WITH AMMUNITION
GENEVA, Feb. 9. Lack of ammunition Is hampering tho Italian campaign
against Austria, nnd is nlso held to bo tho chief reason for Italian Inactivity
In the Balkans. A dispatch from Paris states that.' Albert Thomas'", French
Minister of Munitions, who Is' going to Romo upon a special mission, -will
malco nn agreement with Italy by which tho Allies aro to furnish nor with
an enormous quantity of munitions, as well as artillery..
ANARCHIST HURLS BOMB IN LISBON; ONE KILLED
LISBON, Feb. 9. A bomb thrown by an anarchist killed ono person nnd
Injured six others today. Three unexploded bombs wero found by tho pollco
and to each was attached a card bearing these words: "Viva anarchy."
CONSCRIPTION MACHINERY PUT IN MOTION
LONDON, Feb. 9. Governmental .mnchlnery for tho enforcement of tho
conscription act was, set in motion today. Tho King's proclamation calling;
upon all eligible bachelors between tho ages of 20 and 30 years to report for
servico beginning March 3 was placed In tho malls, nnd those who failed to
enlist voluntarily will receive copies tomorrow. In London alone 40,000 copies
of the proclamation were distributed.
Simultaneously largo posters with final recruiting appeals appeared In
Trafalgar Square arid other prominent places In tho city. Tho day was
marked by u lessening of activity among; tho recruiting sergeants. Tho big
Strand recruiting' office near Charing 'Cross was closed, at noon and a pad
lock placed on tho door.
100,000 GARMENT WORKERS STRIKE IN NEW YORK
NEW YORK, Feb. 9. A complete tlo-up of the women's garment-making;
Industry In New York Is threatened as
ing. It was estimated that more than
work this morning and that, more than
have quit within the next 24 hours.
So menacing Is the situation that Mayor Mltchcl decided to Intervene
In an effort to effect a settlement. Fears wero expressed that It would b
tho most serious labor disturbance In
HATZFELDT'S FRIENDS EXPLAIN INDISCRETION
WASHINTON, Feb. 9. Prince von Hatzfeldt-Trachenberg, counsellor
of tho German Embassy nnd the official accredited with having called tho
American public stupid in a letter last summer, hesitated, blushed nnd then
grinned ruefully when questioned today about the matter. Later friends of
tho Princo explained that In referring to the "stupid public" ho meant the
public of all countries and not only of tho United States.
BRITON URGES RUTHLESS TAXATION
LIVERPOOL, Feb. 9, Sir Alfred Booth, chairman of tho board of directory
o( the Cunard Steamship Company, In a speech lust night urged the enforcement
of individual thrift on a national scale by a scheme of taxation more ruthless
than the Government has apparently yet thought of adopting;. There should
bo, he said, a great Increase In the Income tax and supertaxes and also indirect
taxation. Every unnecessary commodity should be brought into the net. The
criterion by which each tax should be judged should be, not tho amount pf
revenue which it would produce, but the amount of thrift it would enforce.
SHIP SPEEDS TO QUEENSTOWN WITH COTTON AFIRE
LONDON, Feb. 9, A wireless received last night from the Swedish steam
ship Texas, previously reported with a Are In her cargo of cotton, says, the vessel
is steering for Queenstown, The message reports the fire forward of the bridge
and probably between decks under the bridge, and says It is feared there will ba
serious damage to both ship and cargo. The Texas la expected to make Queens
town Thursday. She left New Orleans January 23 and Newport News January
27 for Gothenburg and Christlanla.
KITCHENER RUMORS DENIED IN LONDON
LONDON, Feb. 9. Reports that Lord Kitchener Is soo"n to leave the "Wat
Office and is tp be succeeded by Lord Derby were denied In wel-lnormd
circles today. It was stated that no changes In the Ministry are contemjJlatfcd,
It was also denied that Kitchener will go to Egypt In the near future.
BRIAND WANTS ITALY TO DECLARE WAR ON KAISER
PARIS, Feb. 9. -Following the departure of Premier Arlstlde Briand for
Rome today a sensational report became current that the French Minister
will urge the Italian Government to declare war against Germany. It la
known that three objects of M. Briand's trip 'to the Italian capital are: To
bring Into closer unity the relations between Italy and the Allies; to dlsuw
the financial and economic .situation la Italy, and to confer on the part that
Italy Is going to play in the Balkan campaign when It opens.
' It was announced that Albert Thomas. Minister of Munitions; General
Dumezll, an attache of the Ministry o'f Muntlons, and Leon Bourgeois, Min
uter without a portfolio In the French Cabinet, would also go to Rom.
ENGLAND TO ESTABLISH MINISTRY OF AVIATION
LONDON, Feb. . As the result of public clamor over German 2pjiiu
raids, the. Government ha decided to. create a Ministry ot Avlattos,
Standard says. It will be the task of the new Minister to afcat4 in
land against further attacks from the air.
NEWS
tho result of grievances of lonp stand
100,000 workers-fa!led to report for
300,000 men and women workers wll!
the history of tho city.
