.Evening"
VOL. 52 NO. 34
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., WEDNESDAY, FEB. 9, 1916
PRICE TWO CENTS
FRAT
'ERNIT
EPICAL :Mm
EfJTIFSCAT
Comment Member of Grand Army, I O. O. F., and
American Mechanics Who Died In Hospital Lay
Many Hours In Morgue Without Effort to Identify
Him Many Means of Ascertaining Identity of Dead
Man At Hand Lack of Effort To Trace Them Causes"
Following tli sudden death "hereOf
Thos. F. Gilmore of WalHngford, yet-
tran of the Ciy'il wal- and prominent
member of the Odd Fellows and the
American Mechanics, lodges of the or
ders with which .he was affiliated have
. , adopted resolutions oensuriog . Medical
-, Examiner Samuel M. Garlick for his
conduct in - the case and requesting'
that the medical -examiner in the fu
ture exhaust every effort to identify
persons who die under similar circum
stances in order- to notify their rela
. ties. '
Mr, Gilmore, who is widely known
'.throughout- the state because of his
' eonneotion with fraternal orders, came
here to attend an (anniversary, meeting
of Betsey Ross council; No. 19, Daugh
ters-of Liberty, on the evening of De
cember 7. While on hi way I50 the
lodge room in State street he was
stricken - with heart disease. Feeling
that' he was seriously ill Mr. Gilmore
kept on down Main -street past State
street where the Daughters of Liberty
hail is located and went into CoL T. J,
-.urpby's cafe . where he was' liareiy
able to tell jhi3 condition and ask for
assistance. -.-
Shortly : after he entered the saloon
he collapsed. . The ambulance was sent
for and he was removed to St. "Vin
cent's hospital where ' he die'd next
day. The body was then taken to the
morgue pt CulUnan & Mullins. Fail
' ufe to identify Mr. Gilmore occurred
in the division of responsibility among
, the 'hospital, the . medical examiner
andj the triorgiie. "When Mr. Gilmore
did not retnra ' to his home in Wal
lingford after ; several days absence
his relatives there telephoned to
QERMAnSGAPTURE 800 ,
Berlin. Fteb. it Capture of the first
' line French positions 'over a front of
800 yards to the west of Vimy was an
nounced today by the war . office.
The German attack was made near
the western end of the French front, a'
short distance below the -Belgian bor
der, :in the region, which has been the
scene of pronounced activity recently.
Vimy -is two miles northeast of Neuy
ville, near whicn town the Germans
late last month made'an infantfy at
tack, capturing as reported" Jby "Berlin,
about 1,500 yards of French positions.
f' ; .. .. Germans Mass In France x
London, Feb. 1 9. Reiterating; the
report that large numbers of German
troops have ,been transferred recently
to Northern France, the Amsterdam
correspondent of the Central News
telegraphs that it is reported from the
"Belgian frontier that 600,000 men nave
been sent to that frdnt.
The message also says' the Germans
are planning to extend the Belgian
port of Zeebrugge so that it will' shel
ter more ships.
PERSIANS ROUT RUSSIANS. .
Berlin, Feb. 9 Constantinople re
ports given-out today by the Overseas
News Agency state that Russian forces
in Persia have met with a severe de
r.lAUDE KEPPY WHEELER DENIES
MOTHER WAS EJECTED FROM
HOME AFTER HOUSEHOLD FIGHT
Maude Keppy Wheeler who was cut
off with $1 by her mother's will, took
the stand before Judge ,Gager and a
.Jury in the superior court this morn
ing to tell why she wanted the wilt
.broken.' She and her brother, J esse
JU D. 'Wheeler of San Francisco, Are
iippetllng from the decision of Judie
Of . Probate Peck ef Stratford, wild
admitted Ella Keppy's will. Mrs.
Wheeler says her sister, Mrs. Florence
Walters, unduly influenced Mrs. Kep
py and caused her -to give the plaintiff
only l.
Mrs. Wheeler" referred to Mrs. Wal
lers' domestic troubles in a manner
that caused the latter, who was in
the courtroom, to. glare at her sister.
Mrs. Wheeler Claimed her mother was
not on very friendly terms with Mrs.
Walters and once remarked "That it
was a terrible disgtace to the family
that she,, had been divorced ' on the
.ground of infidelity."" Mrs. Wheeler
also quoted her mother as saying Mrs.
Walters ought to marry the -co-respondent
in the case, which she after
ward did;- -.
The witness also' declared Mrs. Wal
ters at'one time sought to , borrow
money, from her mother so she could
bring suit against her first husband
for the custody of her child. On. thU
occasion Mrs.v Keppy remarked, ac
cording to the witness, that Florence
never cam to
her - unless she
wanted something.
Mrs. Keppy also
complained : she couldn't get ny
GENSU
IMtM
DELAY
friends here and it then was discov
ered that his body had lain for two
days unidentified in the morgue.
What has" aroused the ire of his
friends and fraternal associates here
is that although he was well supplied
wth money and carried on his person
letters, lodge receipts and other pa
pers by; which he. might be identified
and that he wore in the lapel of his
coat the bronze button of the Grand
Army of the Republic, no attempt was
made to communicate with various or
ders here in other branches of which
his papers showed he held member
ship. .
. In fact the resolutions adopted by
the lodges here claim that even after
he had been identified and his body
taken to his home in Wallingford for
burial it was several days before his
family were able to - effect the return
of the money, his gold watcii and other
vaiuauies w 111111 cariieu ui" xii per
son. , ;',' . , V
The resolutions were adopted by
Elias Howe, Jr., Post, No. 3, G. A. R.
Waldemere- council. No. 6 and TJncas
council. No. 25, O. IT. A. M. They
were, also adopted by Monitor, Samuel
H. Harris; Arcanum, Lessing and Steu
ben lodges' of the Independent, Order
of Odd Fellows. . . When the resolutions
reached Pequonnnock lodge. No. 4, I.
O. O.; F.. the oldest Odd Fellows lodge
in the citythey struck a snag.
Attorney Henry C. Stevenson, past
noble grand of the. lodge, past noble
grand of the state and' member' of the
committee (on laws for the national
body, put a taboo m the resolution's.
, -v 1; (Continued n Pa;ge 2.)
feat at the hands of Persian tribesmen
and that they retreated in disorder.
The Persian forces, according - to
these advices, were under command of
Handar Bey. They attacked the Rus
sians near Samdshulak which was re
conquered by the natives.
- Belgian Peace Report A gain
Rome, Feb. 9 The Giornale D'Ka
tla states thatr Monsignor Taocl Por
3elli, - the papal : Nuncio to Belgium,
presented to Belgium, Germany's pro
posals for. a. separate peace. Whether
or not he wij? authorized to do sn 1)
the "Vatican, says the newspaper, has
not been ascertained. ., . ,
It 5s said that Germany, through
Prince Von Buelow and other prom
inent - personages, has 4ndicated that
the terms -5he -is ready "to offer to Bel
gium for the1 concluding of a separate
peace comprise the restoration of .Bei
srium to the government of King Al
bert and the payment of '. a large ' in
demnity for damages Caused by tho
Invasion and the occupation and that
she asked in return economical and
commercial privileges which would
Irtually . transform the port of Ant
werp into a German center of traffic
To these , proposals Belgium - is said
-O have replied with a prompt refusal
and a declaration of intention to ad
here to the allies and not to conclude
a. separate peace. .
money from her father's estate, on
which Florence was administratrix.
Mrs. Wheeler declared that her own
relation with her mother were most
friendly. They lived together for sev
eral years until 1913, when Mrs.
Keppy went to live" in Darien. She
was asked to explain the bequest in
the will which stated 'that Mrs. Keppy
left Mrs. Wheeler only $1, "because
she allowed her husband to turn her
out of the house."
. The witness declared that statement
was not true. Her husband had not
turned Mrs. Keppy out of the house.
In fact his relations with her were
very pleasant. She only recaHed one
dispute, which arose because Wheeler
claimed . his mother-in-law was1 inter
fering in household affairs. "
Mrs. Wheeler is the wife of Wil
liam G. Wheeler of Fairfield. Her
mother, Ella Kepjy, was the widow
of Fred Keppy, who was chief en
gineer at th Warner Bros, plant for
many years. He died in 1909, and
Mrs. Keppy died JTune 11. 1915.
Mrs. Wheeler testified that ' her
mother appeared to be of sound mind
until just shortfy before her last ill
ness. Then she was nervous and com
plained that she couldn't remember, or
think. I ,
Judge C"rles H. Peck of Stratford
was the fr-t witness. V He said . he
drew the will for Mrs. Keppy and
found her of sound mind. The trial
will probatory continue for several
days. - .
STATE LEADERS
OF DEMOCRACY
TO MEET HERE
Central Committee and Oth
er Prominent Party Work
ers Coming Monday.
WIL ARRANGE PLANS
FOR SPRING MEETING
Bridgeport Likely To Get
invention That Names
National Delegates.
, To select a date and place for the
spring convention, the Democratic
State Central committee wsll meet
next Monday afternoon at The Strat
field hotel. Call for the meeting was
issued today by Patrick B. O'SulIivarj,
of Derby, secretary of the committee.
Invited to sit with . the committee
will be National Committeeman Ho
mer S. Cummings, the five former
Democratic congressmen of rloe state,
and the nominees on the last state
ticket.
It is probable, according to' present
indications, that - Bridgeport will be
the spring convention city. The con
vention will be held early in May, and
the only business -to come before the
meeting is the- election of fourteen
delegates to the presidential conven
tion in St. Louis in June.
The national delegates are appor
tioned two to each congressional 'dis
trict, with four -being elected at large.
Thus far, the only avowed candi
date for election' to the national dele
gation is former , Mayor William E.
Thorns, of Waterbury. In a state-
ment issued recently he .announced
his candidacy, and it is probable that
fce wi) be one of the delegates from
the Fifth congressional district. Mr.
Thorns was one of the delegates from
his district four years, ago.
It is probable several others who
represented Connecticut Democracy at
Baltimore, , four years ago, ' will be
honored again. . The makeup of the
delegation in 1912 Was as follows:
Delegates at large Willie O-.- - Burr,
Hartford; Bryan F: Mahan, New Lon-
don; William Kennedy, Naugatuck;
David E. - Fitzgerald New Haven.'
First District-KToseph M:' Halloran,
New Britain; Michael J. Connor, En
field. .
Second. District Charles -WJ, Corn-
stock, Montville; Daniel P. Dunn. WU-
uniantic. - -
Third District Louis Stoddard.
New Britain; Edwin S. Thomas, West
Haven. ,
Fourth district--Archibald McNeil.
Jr., Bridgeport; Charles Kerr, Dan
bury. Fifth district James F. Meara.Tor-
rihgton; William E. Thorns, Water-
bury. !
At the mee'tng of the State Central
committee Monday, a choice, for teixv-
porary chairman of the convention
will be made. The address of the
temporary chairman is one of the fea
tures of the opening night of the con
vention. ,
If the usual program is followed
out,) as is expected, the convention
will assemble in the evening. Follow
ing V the address of the temporary
chairman, the senatorial caucuses for
the election of convention committees
will be held.- Thei senatorial caucuses
will be followed by congressional dis
trict . caucuses where the choice for
national delegates will be made.
On the following morning, the con
vention will meet again and permanent
officers chosen. Then will follow the
election of the -delegates to the Bal
timore convention, each congressional
district having- previously designated
persons to present the caucus phoices.
The four delegates at large will be
named from the floor.
The national delegation will meet
aftert the convention for organization
and will elect a. national committee
man. It is believed that Homer S.
Cummings, of Stamford, vice chair
man of the national committee, will be
re-elected to represent Connecticut:
Bridgeport members of the State
Central committee are P.' H. Brady,
Vl'liam F. Russell and - Michael - J.
Clabby.
LIFE SENTENCE
FOR MOHDERER
OF HER BABIES
Former Bridgeport Woman
Pleads Guilty to Having
Drowned Sons.
(Special to The Farmer.)
Milford, Feb. 9 Mrs. Sophia
Krause, formerly of 97 Henry street,
Bridgeport,' was sentenced yesterday to
life imprisonment on the charge of
murdering her twe sons.
Mrs. Krause threw her two boys in
to the Milford. reservoir, Jan. 18, and
then . tried to drown herself. It was
at first believed- that she was insane
but alienists testified that her mind
was normal at the time.
She was arraigned before Judge
Noel H. Reed yesterday in the New
Haven County Superior court, charged
with murder in the second degree. She
pleaded guilty.
Mrs. Krause moved from Bridge
port to Milford last July. She re
sided in Henry street five years, with
her husbaaid, who. conducted a taxi
cab business in Bridgeport.
ANTIQUE FCNITCKE 'BURNEA. .
; MIddleneld, Conn., Feb. 9 A farm
house owned by Mrs. Orlean Miller,
and furnished largely with antique
furniture, was burned here today. The
loss was about $3,000. Most of the
furniture was 'saved. The fire is be
lieved to have started from a destruct
ive flue.
STAITB
mmm EiiETWi -wmmm
OFFO
OR U.S. SUP
Washington, Feb. 9. Investigation
of President Wilson's nomination of
Louis D. Brandeis, of Boston, ' to the
supreme court bench was begun today
by a Senate sub-committee' which
first heard Clifford Thome, chairman
of the Iowa board of railroad commis
sioners who was associated with Mr.
Brandeis in the .f ight against giving
the eastern, railroads increased freight
rates. Mr. Thorne assailed the con
duct of Mr. Brandeis in that case.
"I believe the nominee before this
committee was guilty of infidelity, of
breach of faith acd ,of unprofessional
conduct in connection with one of the
greatest case's of this generation,"
said he.
Thorne charged that Brandeis, as an
attorney appearing . for the shippei-3,
conceded that the rate return to the
railroads was inadequate and that
Brandeis, in his oral argument to the
interstate commerce commission, con
ceded that the returns were "incon
sistent with the prosperity of the rail
roads and welfare of thes public."
At the beginning of the hearing, the
sub-committee voted down a prosposal
TEIPER IS HELD
AS MERER OF
ISflGEDMTHER
Grand Jury Returns True
Bill and Buffalo Man is
Remanded Without Bail.
- Buffalo, N. X., Feb. 9. The grand
jury today- reported an indictment
against John Edward Teiper, charging
him with ' the murder of his mother,
Mrs. Agnes M. Teiper, one of the vic
tims of the' Orchard 'Park Highway
tragedy. ' There were two counts in
the indictment relating to the death
of Mrs., Teiper-to both of which Tei
per pleaded not guilty. . Teiper was
committed to jail without bail.
The Indictment charges that the ac
cused killed Mrs. Agnes M. Teiper
"with a revolver, a hammer, a blunt
instrument and oth,er instruments un
known to the jury."
After Teiper had entered his plea of
not guilty his counsel, Edward R.
OMalley, made an . effort to proceed
with the examination of the prisoner
under the charge made by District At
torney Dudley before Justice Marcus,
sitting as a committing magistrate on
Monday, but Mr. Dudley objected and
the court consented to the withdrawal
of this former charge, " -
The case against Teiper probably
will not be called until some time in
April. Grace ' J. Teipers condition
showed considerable improvement to
day, the hospital physieians said. She
had a brief period of consciousness,
but said nothing that would throw any
light upon the Orchard Park tragedy.
SENATE COMMITTEE
FAVOR OF BILL
FOR HAYTI TREATY
Washington, - Feb. 9 The Senate
committee on foreign relations - today
ordered reported to - the Senate with
recommendation for ratification the
Haitien treaty providing for financial
protectorate over the republic by the
United States. There was . no dissent
ing vote. Eleven Senators were pres
ent. '
The proposed treaty provides
chiefly: -
American supervision of finance and
collection of customs.
"American supervision of payment
of public Sebt, inquiry into validity of
existing debts and regulation of con
traction, of future debts.
' Policing of the-republic by a con-
tabulary, at first headed By American
officers.
Iritervention by the United States, j
if necessary, to preserve order and for
guaranteeing the territorial integrity
and independence of Haiti.
Development of Haitien resources
under American auspices. ,
American Petroleum -
May Be Sent To Greece
Athens, Feb. 8, via Paris, Feb. 9,
12:20 P.- M. -The British minister arid
the collector of Greek customs signed
an agreement yesterday whereby ves
sels carrying American petroleum will
be permitted to reach Greece un
molested, i provided previous notice of
sailings are given, to Great Britain.
THI WEATHER
For Connecticut: Light rain or
snow this afternoon, partly cloudy to
night and Thursday. Colder Thurs
day; moderate variable winds.
NENTS OF BR
POST BEFOR
ura mm h mm mm
. ! i ,'1 L
imm
EME COURT
OOEIWTEE
to have the full committee the case.
1 ftat was regarded by some as a first
victory for .Brandeis on the ground
that the sub-committee was favorable
and the 'full committee hostile. The
full committee, however, will act on
the sub-committee's report. i
A number of witnesses, all protest
ants against Mr,' Brandeis' nomination,
were on hand ready to testify. The
committee later will consider numer
ous petitions from individuals and or
ganizations urging confirmation which
are before it.
Because . of the widespread interest
in the nomination, the committee de
cided to hold public sessions." SOfar
as known,; it is- the first instance in
which such a nomination has been in
quired into except behind closed doors.
Witnesses- summoned to testify in
cluded: Clifford Thorne; S."W. Wins
low, president of the United Shoe Ma
chinery ?o.r P. L. Lenox, James J.
Storrow, and O. W. Barrow of Bos
ton; Thomas C. Spelling, New York;
Joseph M. Teal.. Portland, 1 Ore., and
Lieut.-Gov. John 'M. Espleman, Call
fornia.
TRUST COMPANY
RE-ELECTS ALL
ITS DIRECTORS
i . ' . - . w ; ...
Annual Meeting of Bridge
port Banking Firm Held
I This Morning
Charles G.. Sanford was -re-elected
chairman of the board of directors
and C. Barnum Seeley, presMent " of
the company, this morning at the an
nual directors' meeting of the Bridge
port Trust co.
Egbert Marsh was re-elected vice
president Edmund H. Judson,- treas
urer and Horace B. Merwin, secretary.
The directors, all of whom were re
elected follow: J. Percy Bartram,
Isaac W. Birdseye, Henry' A. Bishop,
Nathaniel W. Bishop, George P. Brett,
Waldo C. Bryant, Arthur W. Burritt,
Andrew M. . Cooper, Franklin Farrel,
Jr. Hobart E. French, ..Robert- S.
Hincks, Geo.- S. Hill, Charles E. Hoyt,
Edmund Judson, - William B. - Leigh,
Egbert Marsh, William J. Nichols,
Charles A. Paul, Bradford D. Pierce,
Jr., Chas, G. Sanford, C. Barnum
Seeley, Hamilton S. Shelton, Horace
W. Smith, Dever H. Warner, D. Fair
child Wheeler, - Hobart R. Wheeler,
and Peter W.' Wren.
LANSING OFFERS
SUGGESTION FOR
LUSITANIA NOTE
Washington, .Feb. 9 One of the
changes in the Lusitania agreement
suggested . by. Secretary , Lansing to
Count von Bernstorff, the German am
bassador, is the substitution of the
words "recognizes liability" for the
words "assumes liability," which were
employed in the tentative draft.
It was understood that upon this
change and others described also as
minor, expressed the viewof high of
ficials that the two governments are
"substantially in accord," if not wholly
so. No new difficulty is expected here
from the change of words. It is felt
that Germany could not or would not
assume the liability which ' she would
not recognize.
MILL EMPLOYES GET RAISE.
Cleveland, Feb. 9 More than 1,-
000 employes of the Cleveland Wor
sted Mill Co. in this city and in Phil
adelphia, Providence, Jameston and
Ravenna will receive an increase in
waeres of ;i5 ner ppnt 1 1 -wao nn-
nounced here today. Employes will
also be' perm-itted to purchase stock
at part on a profit-sharing plan.
VILLA'S BAND ROT7TED.
El Paso, Feb. 9 Francisco Villa
and his band have been driven out of
Canyon ii'El Nldo, western Chihua
hua, according to official reports re
ceived today by General Gaviera, com
mandant at Jtoiarez. The report stated
that the bandit band was moving
eastward toward Laguna where Col.
Samuel Gonzales is in command.
RAILROAD ORDERS DIVIDEND.
New York, Feb. 9 The New York
Chicago & St. Louis Railroad, con
trolled by the New York Central Rail
road Co., today declared a dividend
o 5 per cent, on its first preferred
stock. This is the first disburse
ment since March, 1914, when a divi
dend of 2 12 per cent, was declared-
I
Solicitation of Funds From Corporations Is Instanced
Repeatedly in Summary of Evidence How Norwalk
Man Combed the Hat Manufacturers of Danbury For
Funds Set Forth In Strong Terms Former Collector
of Customs Enos Brought Into Document As To His
Connection With" Customs Rebates Given to Salt's)
Textile Company, Heads of Which Figure Promi
nently In Investigation.
Washington, Feb. 9 In a brief filed today with the
House committee on Contested. Elections, Homer S. Gum
mings, representing Jeremiah Donovan, makes a statement of
facts, to show that Congressman E. J. Hill, in procuring his
election, conspired with the Fourth District Congressional Com
mittee, to break or evade the provisions of the Corrupt Practices
Act, of this state.
The alleged Violation consists:
. In the transfer of f unds, from the committee represent-
ing Mr. Hill to other committees.
In the acceptance of contributions from corporations.
In the collection of contributions in a manner forbidden ,
by law. ' ,
: The nature of the evidence is to connect a number of men, t
who were associated with Mr. Hill in the violation of the Cor- f
rupt Practices act, which are complained of.
The main facts, showing Hill's connection with the com
mittee are enumerated. , - : 4
Fred Enos, former collector of port, is mentioned in con
nection with certain tariff rebates given to the Salt's Textile.
Company. v ' , ;
'. "The Company itself is referred to in caustic language, and i
the activities of the Kipsfheads of the concern, are described in
some detail. 1 . , .
.Reference is also made fio the source of contributions to
Hill's campaign: fund The contributions of'-tbr. Straw Brt Id
Association are described as illegal under the Cbrrupt Practices
act. , .::..--'
The manner in which the Danbury hat manufacturers were
combed for funds is gone into, and Mr. Hill's solicitation of
James A. Farrell, president "of the Steel Trust, from whom
funds were sought, is recorded.
-. Now that -the brief of .Donovan's
counsel has'been filed. Counsel for E.
J. Hill have 30 days in which to file
an answer. Following me nuns ui me
answer, counsel for Donovan have 15
days to file a reply. - ,
The committee on . contested V elec
tions, then may decide the case upon
the napers ' filed ; or may order a
further inquiry and hold a hearing in
which they themselves will hear the
evidence.
The language of the brief, in part,
is as follows:
V Can't Legally Shuffle Funds.
The third specification in theNotice
of Contest alleges a particular illegal
expenditure .made by Arthur C.
Wheeler, as political agent of the con
testee. The illegality is made clear
by a simple1 perusal of Section 5 of
Chapter 2,53 of the Public Acts of 1909
of. the State of Conncticut,-which des
ignates the purposes for which candi
dates and political agents may spend
money, and forbids their expending it
s"for any purpose not authorized :by
this , act." No authority is given by
the act. for candidates - or. political
agents to pay put money to other po
litical agents or treasurers, and by that
token it is illegal so to do. By so do
ing, the contestee's' political agent
avoided- rendering the account of his
stewardship which the act required of
him, and it is no answer that the bur
den of " accounting passed to another
along with the money, for the act
makes -.'the duty to account personal
to the office, arid a personal duty im
posed by a penal statute is not assign
able.' VV
' "The sum thus transferred was rel
ativeVy small in that Instance, but the'
principle involved is important, for it
is the Intent of the law to insure open
ness and accuracy in regard to every
detail of receipt and expenditure by
each political agent. Moreover con
tributions . come to a political agent
impressed with a trust to use them In
furthering the campaign of the par
ticular ' candidate he represents, and
for no other purpose.
"The duty of a trustee cannot be
delegated and by transferring any of
his receipts to another for expendi
ture, a political agent not only -breaks
his faith with the contributors, but
unlawfully delegates a fiduciary duty
objects which the act properly seeks
to prevent and will prevent If it be
fairly regarded.
Exceeded Lawful Limit.
"This infraction of the law is serious
enough, when observed as an isolated
case, but assumes far greater import
ance when it is viewed (as the testi
mony compels it to be viewed) as but
one of a series of acts and forbear
ances of the contestee designed to aid
his election to Congress through the
collection and disbursement, for him,
of sums vastly exceeding the lawful
limit prescribed for Congressional
candidates. (Mr. Wheeler, political
agent for Mr. Hill and treasurer of
the Republican Congressional cam
paign committee, , admits, in the
Record at p. 44, that $7 50 was the
maximum which could lawfully be
expended by a Congressional candi
date or his political agent. So also
does Mr. Fessenden, chairman of said"
committee. See Record at p. 56, and
it was so stipulated, Rec. p. 201). The
contribution in question was made by
Arthur C. Wheeler as the contestee's
political agent to Arthur C. Wheeler
(the same person)' as treasurer of the
U Lb2) u
Republican Congressional -committee.
Activity of Rhodes.
nVaign
The next" member of- the congres- ,
sional committee was a most import- '
ant one for many reasons, not least -among
which was that he was Fred
erick. Rhodes, treasurer of the Salt's.
Textile Manufacturing Company, a
Connecticut ' corporation located at
Bridgeport, vitally 'interested in tariff
questions and able to give substantial
aid to any- - cause i espoused. Mr.
Rhodes had known Mr. Hill for near
ly twenty years and his interest in ;
politics centered in, the tariff and in !
the. particular kind of tariff (the spec-
Ific as opposed to the present ad
valorem tariff- which was not then in :
force but which Mr. Hill favored and
hoped to restore. Besides being treas- ,:
urer of the Salt's Textile Manufactur- i
ing Company Mr. Rhodes was the j
holder of a substantial amount of its
preferred and common stock. Be- j
cause of his intimate connections with j
this company, and the extent to which
his personal fortunes were identified
with it, Mr. Rhodes mUst have felt j
grateful to Mr. - Hill for the aid. un- j
doubtedly extended-to the company in j
settling the claims of the Govern-
ment against it on account of its al-j
leged undervaluations on imported
goods. ' . ;
vThe subject was painful to Mr. j.
Rhodes and he" became a most diffident ;
witness at this point in his examina- '
tlon. He admits, nowever. that the j
Government's claim was compromised j
about 1909 by the payment of about;
$30,000, (Rec. p. 196) ' which the;
company considered a ; reasona- , (
ble settlement. He goes so far
as to admit that -. ' "probably"
the company - had some consultation,
with Congressman Hill prior to the
settlement, and while he avoids a
categorical answer when asked wheth
er Hill was for or against him in the
compromise of the Government fMts,
says: I cannot ten. - j. suppose net
woulddo his best for his constituents
that he could. - I do not know. . -. ,
I suppose he did,, a , very reasonable
supposition.. : . .
Mr, Enos on Committee. .
"It should be remembered that afc
the time of the Salt's Textile com
promise, Fred Enos, also a member of
the Congressional Campaign Commit-
tee and on the sub-committee on -finance
with Mr. Rhodes, was collec-'"
tor of the port of ' Bridgeport, where
the chief plant of the company was,
and must have passed upon the mat-. ;
ter and made recommendations. In - ;
view of the fact that-JHill secured his :
appointment and was 'probably favi -'
orable to-the company In his views, it
is also 'probable' that Mr. Enos recom
mended measures reasonably favor
able to the company. '
It is only fair to .state that Mr.
Rhodes rather indignantly denied all
knowledge of the details of the settle
ment, and even of ' the reasons ad
vanced by . the company's own attor
ney in favor of it. Among these rea
sons the attorney wrote the Govern
ment that the company was financially
embarrassed and probably could not
respond to any large Judgment that
might be obtained against It.,
Yet Mr. Rhodes, who was secre
tary of the company at the time, pro
fesses such total ignorance of its af
fairs that he cannot comment on the
truth of the claim made by the com
pany's counsel. It is submitted that
Mr. Rhodes was not quite candid in,
' . (Continued on page 2)
