f ladf $6.12; spelter, not quoted; cop- - v "feL- m 17 WEATHER Utah: Rain or Snow JM
M S per, firm; electrolytic, $26.25, $27.00, l 1 "" Tcnlght; Not Much Change In Tern- H
M i $27.50 and $28.00. W pcrature. '-M
oS 1 . HAS THE LARGEST PAID SUBSCRIPTION LIST IN OGDEN AND WEBER COUNTYc ' : J H
54g g Forty-sixth Year.-No. 34. Price: Five Cents. ft. OGDEN CITY, UTAH, WEDNESDAY EVENING, FEBRUARY 9, 1916 Entered as Second Class Matter at the Postoffice, Ogden, Utah. " 'H
1 British Armored Cruiser Drake Captures I
SI German Warship Roon, Captor of the 1
I Appam, and Two Merchant Ships I
I! FHREE-HOUR FIGHT TWO HUNDRED
1 MILES NORTHEAST OF BERMUDA
I ;
Ii Message to New York Evening Globe Reports Arrival of Brit
ish Warship With German Captive in Tow and Both
-tj Merchantmen as Prizes Thirty-two Officers and
719 Men Prisoners Embassy at Washington
g I Receives Advices of Latest Sea Exploit.
m
Iffl J;
l New York, Feb. 9. Advices received here today assert that
5 : the German warship Roon, alleged to be the captor of the Ap-
jj pam, has been captured by the British armored cruiser Drake
3 j after a three-hour fight, 200 miles east northeast of Bermuda,
3 according to a story printed by the New York Evening Globe.
J The capture of the Roon is said by the Globe to have fol-
; lowed by the seizure of two merchantmen, flying the German
is flag, one of -which was armed.
2j lj The story is contained, in a message
J? I -which the Globe states it received in
J : code from a reliable source in Ber-
I ' ' muda-
I: The mesage reads:
M ) ' "Drake here today towing Roon.
)1 ' Took her 200 knots east-northeast Ber-
m muda, three hours running fight. Lost
'$ -: Danforth's eighteen men. Her losses
) about one-third. Struck as we came
3 abeam. Two merchantmen with her
3 ll one armed. Took both. Brought here.
61 'j Segrave, on sighting Roon said:
J ,'j 'Please God, today I will avenge Cra-
' dock.' Roon badly knocked about by
31 ; 9.2. Thirty-two officers and 719 men
y ? taken in the three prizes."
a3il Te Seagrave mentioned in the mes-
!sage is supposed, tobe Captain Sea
grave who was with Admiral Cradock
when the latter went down with his
flagship, the Good Hope, which was
sunk in an engagement with a Ger
man squadron off Chile.
There is no Danforth among the of-
i ficers in the British navy list.
i Captain Joseph R. E. Segrave was
a in command of the auxiliary cruiser
:l Orama which formed part of Admiral
I Cradock's squadron in the battle off
f Chile. After the battle, the Orama es-
s caped and, later, in company with the
.'j cruisers Glasgow and Kent, sank the
German cruiser Dresden off Juan
j Fernandez island. A few days later,
' In March, 1915, Captain Segravo
j fought a battle with the German
r armed merchantman Navarra off the
I j river Plata and sank her. The Oramn
1 1 ' was last reported at Callao in June.
Hi 1915, and since that time neither it
It nor Captain Segrave had figured in
HI : the news.
I ' For several days reports have been
I ; current in maritime circles here that
I the German commerce raider had.
been either sunk or captured by the
I British. The British consulate, how
I ever, has received no official conflr-
' mation of this report.
I' Message to British Embassy.
: Washington, Feb. 9. The British
I embassy today received advices from
I : BritiBh agents in New York that a
I man living on Staten Island whose
I h name was not transmitted, had re
I '-, ceived a private dispatch from Ber
I i muda, saying the British cruiser
J Drake had taken the German cruiser
I ' Roon, and some German merchant
I 3 shops. The embassy had no further
H .7 advices.
I SERBIANS REPORT
I A BLOODY FIGHT
j Night Attack Delivered by
K Serb Troops Puts Enemy to
I Flight Battlefield Cov-
I ered With Bodies of
I ', Enemies.
1 ' -
', Corfu, Feb. 8,. via London, Feb, 9,
: 11 a. m. A Serbian official statement
Issued here todny says that on Feb-
; ruary 2, during the retreat southward
" from Alessio of the Serbian troops, a
r Jilght attack was delivered on the
I pursuing Austro-Hungarian forces
-: who wero aided by armed Albanian
- bands and that the latter were' put to
;. flight after many had been killed and
' a hundred prisoners were taken, most
H i ly Hungarians.
The statement follows:
; "The Austrian troops, after occu
H i pylng Alessio which we evacuated,
i are continuing their advance on Dur-
i azzo. The fourteenth mountain brl-
i gadc oa February 1 with the co-opera-
tlon of a number of armed Albanian
bands came into contact with some
troops of the rear-guard of one of our
f divisions. Violent and bloody fighting
: occurred on February 2 near the vll-
I lage of Blaama. The enemy succeed-
ed In pressing our troops but when re
H Inforcements had come up a night at
f tack was delivered and our forces re
; took all the positions they had just
l lost and put the enemy to flight, The
Hi battlefield was covered with bodies
HI ot the enemy. Wo took about 100
9H prisoners, mostly Hungarians."
.3H
JHi
WAR REFUGEES
TO STAY IN U. S.
Prompt Relief Furnished by
Hebrew Shelter and Immi
gration Aid Society.
Seattle, Wn, Feb. 9. According to
announcement today, the fifty Rus
slanwar refugees;who vere ordered
held for deportation Monday because
they were penniless when they ar
rived here on the liner Manila Maru,
will not be sent back to the country
from which they fled, but will be per
mitted to remain in the United States.
Assistance for the Immigrants was
furnished promptly by the Hebrew
Shelter and Immigration Aid Society,
which established a branch here a
few weeks ago to care for the large
number of Russian Jews arriving from
Vladivostok and the immigration au
thorities decided to permit them to
continue their Journey to the East
where they will make their homes.
:0O
BRANDEIS BEING
STOUTLY OPPOSED
Witnesses Appear Before Sen
ate Committee Investigating
Fitness of Nominee for
Supreme Bench.
THORNE MAKE CHARGES
Alleges Infidelity, Breach of
Faith and Unprofessional
Conduct in One of Great
est Cases of Generation.
Washington, Feb. 9. Clifford
Thorne of the Iowa railway commis
sion, was the first witness today at
the inquiry into the nomination of
Louis D. Brandeis to the supreme
court bench. The inquiry Is being
conducted by a sub-committee of the
senate judiciary committee. Mr.
Thorne told of his connection with
shippers and state railroad commis
sioners' organizations opposing in
creases in freight rates to the east
ern roads before the Interstate com
merce commission in 1910 and 1913.
He said he was first asked to partici
pate In the 1913 case by Mr. Brandeis.
Mr. Thorne declined, but later agreed,
when Mr. Henry Martin of Kansas
withdrew from the case to become
vice-governor of the Philippines.
The interstate commerce commis
sion, he said, indicated the fundamen
tal question to be determined wast
"Are the railroads entitled to more
revenue, and if so wliere shall the
revenue be secured?"
Then Mr. Thorne stated that his ap
pearance before the committee was
not at his own instance but at the
instance of Chairman Chilton.
Brandeis Guilty of Infidelity.
"At the outset two facts stand out,
it appears to me," Mr. Thorne de
clared. 'In the first place I believe
the nominee before this committee
was guilty ot Infidelity, ot breach of
faith and of unprofessional conduct
In connection with one of the greatest
cases of this generation.
"In the second place, in open court
hearing, while acting as special coun
sel, Mr. Brandeis committed himself
to the proposition that the net return
of 7 1-2 per cent above all expenses, all
interest on debts, on capital stock of
railroads, was inadequate, or, to use
his own word, "negliblc." This had
been held adequate by the committee
In 1910."
Mr. Thorne said ho was uncertain
how far he should go into details, but
began a review of proceedings in the
big rate cases. Mr. Brandeis, he said,
characterized his testimony as "won
derful" and suggested it be published
at once, so the public could see the
other side to the question.
Mr. Thorne said that he suggested
Mr. Brandeis in view of his Intimate
relations with Senator La Follette
might get the testimony printed as a
public document
Mr. Thorne Interrupted his narra
ticve to say that in the 1910 case Mr
Brandeis had limited his activities tr
showing "if the railroads are entitle?
to more revenue, how shall it be sf
cured?"
In returning to description of hi
testimony, he declared he was coi
gratulated upon it by attorneys an
representatives of many interest
Mr. Brandeis and he participated i
cross-examination of railroad wltnes
ses and their relations "were most
friendly."
During the progress of the case,
Mr. Thorne said, two attorneys
sought to show the adequacy of the
railroads' revenue as a whole, but
the clients of both compelled them
to abandon that course. He read
from Mr. Brandeis' brief to show Mr.
Brandeis knew two points were be
fore the committee for consideration,
first adequacy of the revenue, and
second, if inadequate how additional
revenue could be secured.
When it came time for oral argu
ment of the 1913 case. Mr. Thorne
said Mr Brandeis outlined to him
how the arguments would be made.
Brandeis Outline of Case.
"Mr. Brandeis said to me," said Mr
Thorne, "in substance this. 'You and
I have tried to master this case as a
whole. The representatives of the
shippers are chiefly interested in
their specific commodities and I have
talked it over with Chairman Harlan.
It Is the desire of the commission
that you open the argument fqr the
public and I will close. Be'tween'wiil
come the other arguments, the rail
roads opening and closing the whole
case ' I said to Mr. Brandeis that it
would be impossible for me to open
at that time because I was physically
unable, and also that I wanted to fol
low the attorneys for the shippers. I
was afraid that men interested in
special commodities might be tempted
to concede the main issue that the
railroads needed more revenue but
that it should not apply to their par
ticular commodity.
"Mr. Brandeis misunderstood the1
purport of my request and thought
I was desirous of replacing him. He
said that I could make my opening
statement and an additional argu
ment after the shippers. I said I
only wanted to make one argument
Then he said, 'very well, we'll leave
It to the commission whether you or
I shall close.' I assured him I had
no desire to replace him, that I was
not a particle afraid of him, but of
persons interested in particular com
modities. Then he said he thought
he could arrange for me to follow the
shippers, and he did so."
Surprised at Brandeis' Brief.
When he first received a copy of
Mr. Brandeis brief, Mr. Thorne said
he was surprised to find nothing in it
about adequacy of rates He asked
Mr. Brandeis what his position was
to be, and the latter responded he be
lieved some of the roads were not
earning enough money, and he
thought conditions were unsatisfac
tory in Ohio, Michigan and Indiana.
"At the opening of Mr. Brandeis
oral argument he made this state
ment," began Mr Thorne, rending
from the record:
" 'On the whole the net income and
net operating revenue in official
classification territory are smaller
than are consistent w'ith their pros
perity and the welfare of the public
and conditions nre bad in central as
sociation territory and also other
roads because of the Central Asso
ciation scales.'
Witness Thorne Dumbfounded.
"1 was simply dumbfounded by the
statement," declared Mr. Thorne. "For
four years the railroads had been
fighting to establish that before the
Interstate commerce commission.
They had carried on a nation-wide
propaganda in newppapers, maga
zines, speeches and in every conceiv
able manner, I am not saying dis
honestly. "I was dumbfounded to hear at the
conclusion of this great case Involv
ing $50,000,000 annually interest on a
billion dollars if you adopt the stan
dard of dollars and cents, the great
est case ever tried before a human
tribunal since the dawn of civiliza
tion to hear counsel concede the
very point at Issue at the time the
case was set down for argument."
Walsh Contends With Thorne.
Senator Walsh contended that Mr,
Thorne had not niado himself clear
as to Mr. Brandeis' position. The is
sue, tho senator thought, was the
sroBS revenue and not the man. Mr.
Thorne insisted that the issue before
the commission concerned net reve
nue. Mr. Thorne agreed with Sena
tor Walsh's statement that his posi
tion before the commission was that
the net revenue, notwithstanding any
unscientific management was ade
quate and that Mr. Braindeis' posi
tion was thnt the net revenue was
inadequate and should be increased'
by charging for certain special serv
ices. I
BOSTON USED AS
BASE OF GERMANS
Hostile Activities in Canada
Said to Have Been Directed
From the "Hub" City.
WATCH HUNDRED MEN
United States District Attorney
and Collector of Port Leave
for Washington.
Boston, Feb. 9 Federal authorities
were engaged today with reports that
Boston was being used by German
sympathizers as a base for the direc
tion of hostile activities in Canada.
Today for the first time it was admit
ted by a government employe that
typewritten copies wero made of dicta
graph records alleged to have been ob
tained at a meeting place of the men
under suspicion.
Acordlng to the reports which led to
the admission, the movements of
about 100 men were watched with the
result that a dictagraph was Installed
in a Milk street office to determine
of any of these men were conspiring
to commit acts of war against Can
ada George W. Anderson, United States
district attorney here, went to Wash
ington Monday and was followed yes
terday by Edmund Billings, collector
of the port.
oo
FIFTY-NINE FACE
SERIOUS CHARGES
High German Officials, Turk
ish Consul General and
27 Immigration Officials
Are Indicted.
NEUTRALITY VIOLATORS
Bomb Plots, Interference With
Shipping and Wholesale
Traffic Revealed in Nation-wide
Investigation,
San Francisco, Feb 9. The broad
ness of the government's proposed
prosecutions of alleged German bomb
and shipping plots, involving German
consular officials, ship owners, agents
and sellers of supplies was bIiowti to
day when details of indictments voted
against thirty-two men and certain
firms became known.
Even the little barkentine Retriever,
tied to her wharf in the bay, was in
volved because of an alleged contem
plated trip to coal German warships
off the Heads more than a year ago,
in the guise of a motion picture ex
pedition. Perils of the deep, it was given out,
were to be portrayed as never before
with the Retriever figuring therein in
front of a camera. Investigation by
government agents brought the report
to the district attorney's office that
the Retriever was full of coal The
necessity of this cargo, on a sailing
vessel engaged in a motion picture
business was not evident to the in
vestigators and tho Retriever never
got away at all
Tho indictments against the Ger
man consular officials, who include
Franz Bopp, the consul general, were
voted yesterday by the federal grand
jury as a result of the nation-wide
investigation by the department ot
justice into bomb plots and neutrality
violations which involved interfer
ence with shipments of munitions of
war to the allied governments and
the furnishing of coal and supplies
to German warships In the Pacific,
'lho indictments nre the first the gov
ernment has attempted to obtain
against official representatives of any
foreign power in connection with its
efforts to curtain the activities of
persons engaged In the alleged plots.
Tho complete list of those Indicted
was made public today, Is:
Baron Eckhardt II. Von Schack,
vico consul-general.
Baron George Wilhelm Von Brick
en, attache.
Johannes Henrykus Van Koolber
gen, alleged Gorman agent.
Charles C. Crowley, detectivo em
ployed by German consulate.
Mrs. Margaret W. Cornell, assistant
to Crowley.
All these are involved in allegod
plots to blow up Canadian tunnels
and American powder mills.
For conspiracy to defraud the gov
ernment in the alleged shipping plots
involving the Rotriover, Sacramento.
Mazatlan and Olson and Mahony:
Henry W. Kauffmann, chancellor
of the German consulate-general.
Robert Capelle, ngent here for the
North German Lloyd Steamship com
pany. I Maurico Hall, consul-general for
Turkey.
John and Joseph Rothschild, whole
sale grocers.
George and James Flood, ship own
ers and brokers.
Philip R. Thayer, president of the
Northwestern and Southern Steam
ship company.
R. H. Swayne of Swayne and Hoyt,
shipping brokers.
John G. Hoyt of same firm.
C. D. Bunker of C. D. Bunker &
Co., shipping brokers.
Joseph L. Bley of C. D. Bunker &
Company.
Captain Fred Jebsen of the Mazat
lan, ship owner, reported recently
killed on a German submarine.
Dr. Simon Reimer, reputed German
naval officer.
J. E. Bien, attorney.
T. A. Anderson, captain of the Sac
ramento. Bcnno Klocke, Gustav Traub,
Adolph WImmel and T. R. Johansen,
all of the Sacramento's crew.
George Phillips and Frederick Wil
liams, supposed to be fictitious
names.
And the following firms:
Northern and Southern Steamship
company.
C. D. Bunker & Co.
Swayne & Hoyt.
Three Groups of Specifications.
The specifications in the charge of
conspiracy to defraud the govern
ment, varying in different instances,
are in three groups:
First, conspiracy to defraud through
false manifests.
Second, conspiracy to violate neu
trality by making San Francisco a
supply base for belligerent ships at
sea.
Third, conspiracy to defeat neutral
ity by supplying belligerent ships
with stores to which they were not
entitled.
Some of these indictments super
sede former indictments in connec--lioa
-with alleged violations ot neu
trality by the steamship Sacramento
and it was understood that the gov
ernment would ask dismissal of the
earlier charges. They were set for
trial February 14
Speedy Trial Promised.
The speedy trial, promised by the
department of justice, in all these
cases will mark the culmination of
activities on the Pacific coast which
began with the first breath of war
and are said by federal authorities to
have continued almost to the present
moment Until the German cruisers
Scharnhorst, Gneisenau, Leipzig and
Nurenburg were sunk in battle off the
Falkland islands December 8, 1914,
tremendous efforts were put forth to
keep them supplied from this port.
The steamer Sacramento, formerly
the German-owned Alexandria, bought
by the Northern and Southern Steam
ship company, a new corporation, and
living the American flag, left port
'piled high with supplies of all sorts
Including sauerkraut and beer and
reached Valparaiso, Chile empty. All
her supplies were transferred to a
German cruiser. Captain Anderson
said he could not help himself.
Captain Fred Jebsen, a lieutenant
In tho German naval reserve, took a
cargo of coal south on his boat, the
Mazatlan under bonds for its proper
delivery at Guaymas. Sonora, Mexico.
He delivered It on lighters there and
it was snapped up by the German
cruiser Leipzig. Jebsen then made
his way to Germany in disguise and
is reported to have been drowned in
the sinking of a submarine.
. uu-
DRAFTING TDE
NEW ARMY BILL
House Military Committee Be
gins Executive Sessions
Congress Counseled by
Peace Men.
Washington, Feb. 9. Tho house
military committee began executive
session today to draft tho army bill,
after hearing a delegation from the
Society of Friends, headed by Wil
liam S. Hull of Swarthmoro College,
which told tho commltteo that war
and preparation for war were morally
wrong in their view and urged that
international disagreements be settled
by judicial means, the United States
leading in a world movement to that
end.
President Joseph Swain of Swarth
more college, said he did not appear
as a peace-at-any-prlce man and favor
ed keeping armaments as they are for
the present.
President Sharpless of Havreford
college, counselled that congress move
slowly in entering upon a military
policy which he thought at variance
with American ideals.
Miss Lillian D. Wald of Now York,
heading the anti-preparednoss com
mittee of tho women's peace party,
urged congress to make no Increase
in tho military budget this year. Wal
ter Fisher, former secretary of the
interior, declared himself not a peace-at-any-price
advocate, but said:
"There are some prices we should
not pay for peace, but we should pay
nothing for war."
GERMANS CAPTURE OVER EIGHT I
HUNDRED YARDS OF FRENCH LINES I
-:
One Hundred Prisoners and Five Machine Guns Taken When ' I
Germans Storm Positions West of Vimy Great Fight on , H
Belgian Frontier Is Predicted Turks Report Severe I H
Defeat of Russians in Persia Engagements f I
Continue in the Caucasus. El
W H
London, Feb. 9, 1 1 : 08 a. m. Reiterating the report that 1 1
large numbers of German troops have been transferred recent- Kfl
ly to northern France, the Amsterdam correspondent of the PI
Central News telegraphs that it is reported from the Belgian ' I
frontier that 600,000 men have been sent to that front. The
message also says the Germans are planning to extend the Bel- ? B
gian port of Zeebrugge so that it will shelter more ships. H
Berlin, Feb. 9, by wireless to Sayville. Constantinople H
reports given out today by the Overseas News Agency state -H
that Russian forces in Persia have met with a severe defeat 'I
at the hands of Persian tribesmen and that they retreated in ; H
disorder. The Persian forces, according to these advices, were :: H
under command of Haidar Bey. They attacked the Russians (
near Sandshulak, which was re-conquered by the natives. I
Berlin, Feb. 9, via London, 3:12 p,
m. Capture of the first line French
positions over a front of 800 yards to
the wrest of Vlmy was announced to
day by the war office.
The Germ.an attack was made near
the western end of the French front,
a shdrt distance below the Belgian
border in the region which has been
tho scene of pronounced activity re
cently. Vimy is two miles northeast of Neu
ville, near which town the Germans
late last month made an infantry at
tack, capturing, as reported by Berlin,
about 1,500 yards of French positions
The text of the statement follows.
"Western theater West of Vimy,
our troops stormed first line positions
over an extension of 800 meters, se
curing more than 100 prisoners and
five machine guns
"South of the Somme the French
again penetrated during the evening a
Bmall German trench section.
"In Bois le Pretre an enemy aero
plane was shot down by our infantry.
It fell in flames, its two occupants
dead.
"Eastern theater" Minor Russian
attacks made in the neighborhood of
Illoukst, northeast of Dvinsk and
against the field guard post that we
captured on the sixth on the Bnrano-vichi-LyakhovIchi
railway, were re
pulsed. "Balkan theater: The situation is
unchanged."
Paris. Feb 9 Via London, 5 p. m.
The French war office today gave
out the following statement:
"In Artois artillery on both sides
continued to show activity. Ou the
front extending from Hill 140 to the
road from Ncuville to La Folie, the
Germans yesterday just after midday
exploded two mines heavily charged.
"West of La Folie they were able to
penetrate some portions of our trench
es which they had destroyed by the
explosions, but at certain points we
drove them out by an effective hand
grenade attack The fighting contin
ued during the night.
"South of the Somme river wo bom
barded the enemy's trenches.
"In the Vosges there was cannon
ading on both sides in the neighbor
hood of Ilnrtmanns-Weilerkopf.
Athens, Feb. S, via Paris, Feb. 9.
12 -'J.0 p m. The British minister nnd
the director of Greek customs signed
an agreement yesterday whereby ves
sels carrying American petroleum
will be permitted to reach Greeco un
molested, provided previous notice of
sailings aro given to Great Britain.
BGrlin, Feb 9. Wireless to Say
ville. Advices wero received from
Constantinople today that another
group of British prisoners captured
by the Turks at Essen on the Tigris
below Kut-el-Amara have been taken
to Mosul, in Asyria, 220 miles north
west of Bagdad. It Is said the con
voy consists of 294 men out of a
great number captured.
Review of War Situation.
Tho predicted German offonsive on
the Franco-Belgian front has1 not yet
developed but reports of preparations
for it persist. A report from Amster
dam today says six hundred thousand
men have been sent by tho Germans
to tho Belgian frontier.
From the Balkans comes news in
dicating that there Is no longer tho
former apparent unanimity of opinion
that the Teutonic allies are shortly
to begin ad advance on Saloniki. It
is even declared in one unofficial
quarter that the entente allies are
preparing to take the offensive.
Constantinople advices report set
backs for the Russians in their Cau
casus campnign and in Persln. In
Persia tribesmen fighting against tho
Russian forces aro unofficially report
ed to have inflicted a severe defeat j
t
near Sandshulak. Petrograd de ihH
clares engagements in the Caucasus 111
have continued to result In advan- I1H
tage to the Russians. 'H
Germans Make New Gains. 'i '
New gains for the Germans in the , H
region between Lens and Arras, not t H
far south of the Belgian border, were H
announced today by Berlin, which re- t
ports that capture of first line French i 'iH
positions .along nearly a half mile front I
to the west of Vlmy. i
The gains were made on ground f. B
over which the French advanced in H
the allied offensive of last Septeni-
ber and near the area northeast of I
Neuville St. Vaast In which the Ger- '
mans late January reported the storm- LH
ing of 1,500 yards of French posl- ' H
tions. H
SEVERE FIGHTING I
ON DVINSK FRONT 1
Both Sides in Continuous (
Bombardment of Great In- H
tensity Germans Take 1 1
Initiative. M
rj.'H
Russian Military Men Believe HI
Dvinsk-Riga ' Line Impreg- 11
nable Great German lM
Offensive in March :JI
Doubted.
" I
Petrograd, Feb. 9, via London, 4:10
p. m. Severe fighting is again do- 'jH
elopiug on the Dvinsk front, prelim- jH
inary artillery duels having been sue- A
ceeiled by a. continuous bombardment I b
of great Intensity on both sides.
The Germans, who had taken the in- !
itiotive in the new conflict, attacked r
the railway station at LIksno on the l JM
east bank of the Dvina. seven miles I'M
northwest of Dvinsk, whicli would ap- lifl
pear to indicate a serious penetrat- I'V
ing of the Russian lines, but the Rus- Ihjfl
sian staff explains that the German H m
forces were unable to advance, still I,
occupying their old positions, and sue- I '
ceeded in reaching Llksno only by us- ':M
ing heavy artillery, which they now 11
have had time to mount. lilfl
Little importance is attached to the I'fl
predictions of a great German of fen- I'fl
sive against Riga and Dvinsk in if
March. Russian military men believe I
tho Dvinsk-Rlga Hue is impregnable- fM
TWO SEAPLANES I
RAID KENT COAST II
Bombs Dropped at Ramsgate II
and Near School at Broad- 1
stairs No Casualties 1 1
London, Feb 9, 2:17 p. m. Two I S
German seaplanes raided tho coast of
Kent today dropping several bombs. llH
No casualties have been reported. , jjH
The following official statement was , j
given out tonight: i M
"At 3:30 p. in. today two German j H
seaplanes were reported approaching . jH
the coast of Kent. A few minutes H
later these seaplanes dropped three 1 JH
bombs in a field on tho outskirts of , H
Ramsgate. Four bombs were dropped , H
near a school at Broadstreets. Three ,
of tho latter exploded. ; !H
"No casualties have been reported.
No damage as caused other than to , h
glass." ; H
