' - ' ! ! t ! t 1 ! r
! A A f .f.
'I II K MIllOKIt U nn ndTCrtisliiff
! Iiirillnni Hint lirlnirn rcnlf. Our 4
- Ilmiitv nnil vnrlllir I ml nr. ?
! inlcs arc consistent with drcn- !
W'U Tlinrfilnr fnlr nml colder. !
I- Intlon. Hook oncn (o Inspection,
I ! ! 'I ! f t J
, ' t-fj? J ! J- ! J ! j !
MAYSVILLE, KENTUCKY, WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 1010.
(Wtf COPY ONE CENT.
lAll. r rVltLIO LKTtUKR-UM
1
2T
re:
"In Having for a rainy day
I nml," said Henry Hlnklo,
"That nearly nil of us dolny
Till It begins to sprinkle."
.TlldRC.
SPOKANE'S LADY GOP
-Must He (.'(mmI Looking, Handsome,
nml of Winning Ways," So
To Speak.
Spokane, Wash. She must not be
less than 25 nor more than 35 years
old, not under five feet nor moro than
five feet ten Inches tall, not less than
' - 115 nor over 200 pounds In weight.
These are not tho specification for
-someone's prospcctlvo brlo, but for
.'j$lthc new "lady cop" who Is to adorn
VSpokntio's otllclal llfo for the first time
.-Sin the history of tho public safety do-i-partment.
The civil service commis
sion pondered long and earnestly bo-
fore announcing the foregoing limita
tions for candidates.
"Must she bo good looking?" Mayor
Charles Fleming asked.
"Well, we arc not going to feature
-beauty, but its possession will not be
counted ngaliiBt applicants," he rc
. plied, adding:
"I have been told that a woman of
35 docs not know enough to do police
duty. In my judgment, tho average
woman of 35 knows moro than a man
ten years older.
"Wo shall seloct ono with a good
disposition and a temperament for
such work. Wo do not want a 'grouch.'
And she must bo neat In personal ap
pearance. Sho must not gossip about
what the police aro doing."
The civil service commissioners
ngrco that married women should have
tho tamo right to enter the examina
tion as single women, btit that women
with children dependent upon them
might bo under a handicap. Married
women with husbands supporting tin'
family will not havo ns good chnnco as
widows, or women who have been
married and now depend upon their1
own resources for support. Tudor the
city charter married men nre given the
preference and the civil scrvlco com
mission bollevcs this rule should like
wise apply to women where they arc
earning their own living.
Mayor Fleming already has a scor"
of applications for tho Job.
ax ixti:hi:stix(j lktti:.
llolow we give a lcttor received by
one of our county officers. It speaks
for Itself. Tho conditions may or may
not bo true. We would respectfully
ask why parties who wrlto such let
tors do not proceed to swear out war
rants. There Is too much of putting
tho trouble on tho other fellow. If
you know theso things to exist it Is
your- duty ns a good, law-abiding clt
hen and upholder of our civilization
to bring tho offender to Justlco:
I wrlto you theso few lines, as I
was directed to address you, In re
gard to taking God's namo In vain
alone tho public highway; also In
front of our dwelling Thursday night
, so I was told, swore bitter
oaths In front of our house. I heard
the oaths but could not seo him, ns
ho had stopped his buggy nn tho op'
poslto side of our covered wngon, hut
I can furnish a good witness that know
he wns tho guilty party. What can
be dono to stop this? It Is Indeed hard
for ono that wants to live right to
have to listen to such. Whnt Is civ
ilization and religion worth to our
county if wo allow such as that to go
on. Tho drunkard, tho swearer and
the gamblers, if allowed to run at lib
erty nml not brought to justice, women
will bo unsafo to travel on tho high
way. SUFFEItUn.
WHAT Hi: OVOIIKAIM).
Washington, O. C. "I am going to
shoot Charley N'oblc at eight bells to
night."
Overhearing the above threat from
the lips of a gunner's mate, a recruit
of tho United States Marine Corps,
with ten weeks' service to his credit
and outbound for Haiti on tho IT. S. S
Tennessee, stealthily shadowed tho
bloodthirsty gunner about decks until
eight bolls of tho first watch, when,
helplessly and without power to pro
vent, he was forced to witness the dire
tragedy that befell Shipmate Charlej
Xoblo.
And now tho recruit strongly sus
poets that he, himself, is the victim -of
a "frame-up" at the hands of older
and wiser members of tho United
States Marino Corps also outbound for
Haiti on tho Tennessee.
AW.VI.VtJ IIK.MOVKD.
I'oyntz Bros, have removed the largo
tin awning from tho front of their
building ou Lower Market Btreet, mak
ing a great change In the appearance
ot the street.
Suits for $5. Dress skirts for fl,
Read Hunt's nd.
1915 OUR BANNER YEAR 1915
We wish to thank our many friends and customers for their liberal patronage for this.
our fourth year in business, which has proven to be considerable beyond our anticipation, for
wmcn we are very inaimiiii.
We are now looking forward to a greatly increased business the coming year and we
iidiB iujuio urn idlest aim man impruieu equipment lor iiaiiunng your tuners, which guar
antees high grade mill work and satisfaction to all, at the best possible prices.
We are leaders in our line.
TUC UACflM IIIMDCD PflMDAHlV CORNER LIMESTONE AHD SECOND
NIL ITIHOUI1 LUMUt.ll UUITII Hill STREET. PHONE 519.
A. A. McLAUGHLIX.
L. X, IIE1IAX.
mm
1
M
M
it
I
M
a
m
HOB BltS
A prominent physician tells us that "hobbies" arc healthy
IliiiiPK fni- ns tn lmvn nml vr fiwd tlinl i miisf lin !i1psk(u1 with
unusually good health, ns wo have ALWAYS hnd a hobby J5
illltl Jl H
HARNESS!
Years ago, when leather sold for nineteen cents a pound,
our boast wns that we made the best harness that could bo
made of good leather, good thread and good workmanship.
Now, when that same kind of leather is selling for forty-nine
and fifty cents a pound, wo still maintain that we have tho
best harness that can bo made. All you have to do to prove
that we are telling you facts is to go to the next "sale," and
hear Col. Ilensley Hawkins say in that musical drawl for which
he is so famous, "This is a set, gentlemen, of Mike Browu's
Harness. What do you bid?" Then's when you can see tho
farmer "sot up and take notice." for lie knows there will bo
some bidding ou that harness.
This is the time of the year, when Harness is foremost in
every farmer's mind, and this is the time of the year, also,
when we are ready to sell him. All winter long our men have
been making up harness for Spring trade, and now we aro
ready. Of course, it's higher than when our grawlfathor.4
used to buy it, but, considering the price of leather, it's u
wonder how low in price and high in quality tho Square Deal
harness is.
Come in, gentlemen, wo are ready to rig up those horses.
MIKE BROWN
"THE SQUARE DEAL MAN"
EVERYONE LIKES THE FLAVOR OF WHEATiNA
THY OXK I'ACKAOU. IT fiOLYKH THE HIIKAKFAST WOHLKM,
JUST TU'l'KD ANOTIIKK HAUHUL OF THE FINEST HJRYf CHILEANS
."MOLASSES EYL'H Jilt OUGHT TO TOWN, , ,
CAPTAIN GEORGE BAY
One of llio Ilcst Known lllvcrinrn
the Ohio Valley, llcd Suddenly
Sunday At Huntington.
In
Cnptnln acorgo Uay, ono of tho most
widely known rlvcrmon In tlio Ohio
Vnlloy and brother of Captain Wllllniu
Day of Ironton, died at his homo In
Huntington Sunday morning at 11:30
o'clock after an Illness ot only two
days of grip and pneumonia. Though
his last Illness was very brief, Cap
tain Hay had been In fooulo health for
some time. Ho was 80 years old last
May.
In 1864 ho and his brother Captain
Will Day, entered into the steamboat
business In which they wcro success
tul. And since that tltno tho namo ot
tho Hays has been synonymous with
tho river trnde of the Ohio valley. In
the halcyon days of the rlvcrmen Im
mediately following tho war, tho part
nershlp grew strong and tho Day Lino
boats wcro among the foremost lines
of packets.
Although It has been a number of
years since Captain Hay was able to
command Ills boats in person, his in
terest In tho river never fagged and It
was always his first thought. Ills long
llfo as a rlvcrman had associated him
with evcryrivcrman in tills section and
ho knew them all.
MHS. KLIZAHETH WOOD PASSES
AWAY AT HEIt HOME OX
FOREST AVExn;,
At an early hour Wednesday morn
ing Mrs. Ellznbcth Wood, the widow
of tho lato David Wood, died at her
homo on Forest avenue.
Mrs. Wood was one of Mason coun
ty's oldest Inhabitants, being in her
eighty-third yenr at tho time of her
death. Sho wax bom In the Shannon
neighborhood In the southern part of
the county and came to Maysvlllo In
187G. She was a llfo long member of
the M. K. church, South, In which
she lived as a consistent member. She
waB a devoted mother, a kind neighbor
and a warm, sympathetic friend.
She is survived by four sons,
Messrs. D. K., W. A. anil II. I). Wood
of tills city, and Mr. X. S. Wood ot St.
Louis, Mo, and ono daughter, Miss
Mae Wood of this city
Funeral services will be announced
later. . -
Attractive bath mats white and col
or or all white, 50c to $1.25. Hunt's.
HEATH OF JOHN' W. CORDHAY.
Mr. John W. Cordray died at his
home near Orangeburg Tuesday. He
was CI years old and had been mar
ricd twice, ills second wife surviving
him. Five sons and six daughters
also survive. Mr. Cordray was a well
known and ruspected farmer and a
member of the M. B. church, South.
The funeral will be held at 11
o'clock Thursday at Mt. Carmel, with
services by Itev. Matthews.
fi E H.MAX (JOYEHX.ME.rS PROl'OS
ALS ACCEPTED HY THE
UNITED STATES.
Washington, February 8. The
United States and Germany arrived at
a settlement of tho Lusitanla caso late
today, nine months to the day from
tho sinking of tho vessel off tho Irish
coast with the loss of 114 Americans.
HEXTAL DAY AT HIGH SCHOOL.
Tho pupils of tho High School had
their teeth examined Tuesday. Doc
tors Dodson, Lang, Cartmell and
Franklin wcro busy for over two
hours.
VALENTINES, VALENTINES.
Our lino is tho largest over brought
to Maysvlllo. Seo us first. Prices 1
cent to ?3. De Nuzio.
HUYS AUTO TRUCK.
Walter I. N'auman. tho nonular West
Second street groceryman, hns pur
chased a now auto truck to bo used In
connection with his business.
HUYS A PIANO.
Mr. W. 1). llradford bought a John
Church player piano. It was dollvcrcd
today.. Mr A. Walker was tho salesman.
By n majority of votes, "Bonnie,
Sweet HobbIp," America's sweetest
song, will bo sung by Anna Caso on
Edison's birthday, February 11; both
made-ln-Ainerlcn, the world's greatest
trade-mark. J. T. KACKLUY & CO,
Tho 1-adles Aid Society of tho For
est Avenue M. 13. church will meet
Thursday afternoon at 2 o'clock at the
homo ot Mrs, Allco Ynmll ou East
Second street. All members urged to
bo present.
J. F. Norrls of Hebron, was trans-
anotlng business In Maysvlllo Tuesday.
Mr. S. A. Bhanklln of Helena Sta
tion, was a Maysvlllo visitor Tues
day.
Women's and children's coats Half
MR. GEORGE KALES MET WITH A
SERIOUS ACCIDENT.
.Mr. (Icorgo Enles, who arrived horc
Tuesday evening from Loxlngton to
work on tho new addition to the James
livery bam on tho East Second street
extension, had put In a part of day's
work when ho met with n painful acci
dent. Ho wns putting n window in the
front gnblo where ho was working on
tho tiiBldo. Stepping back ou a piece
of lumber it broke, precipitating him
to tho ground, a distance of about
twelve feet. Dr. Qulglcy wns called
and found tho bones In the right wrist
were broken. Ho was removed to his
room at tho homo of his sister, Mrs,
II. M. Ashcraft of West Front street.
Ho Is also apparently suffering from
nn Injury in the small of tho back
and It Is thought he may bo Injured in
ternally. CRITICALLY ILL.
Mrs. Kathcrlno I.llleston Chlsholm,
mother ot Col. M. C. Chlsholm, for
merly of this city, but now of Newport.
Ky., Is very ill at her home in Lex
ington from causes Bupcrlnduccd by
old age, sho being now 01 years old.
Mrs. Chlsholm has many relatives and
friends in this city, as it was onco her
home.
VALENTINE NOVELTIES.
Reduced prices on Valentino pic
tures, Ii, 10 nnd 25c ench: former
prices 25, 50 and Jl each.
fS-2t J. T. KACKLEY & flO
POLICE COURT.
Sherman Lucas, breach of peace,
$fi.50.
T. Hridlcy, unlawfully selling
Ihiuor, $23.!)0.
MAIL ORDERS PROMPT!, V FILLED.
For all grades of whiskies and
liquors. Our prices aro right. Order
today. I'oyntz Bros., Covington, Ky.
Mrs. Roger Dcvina and children left
Tuesday for Cleveland, O., where sho
will join her husband. Mr. Devlne Is
making ritiltc n success with a fresh
ah" school.
.
Mrs. Luanna Whaley and grandson.
Woodford, of Kwlng, are visiting Mrs
Whuley's sister, Mrs. James Frost of
Cherry street.
Dresses and suits half price at
Hunt's. See ad.
THE PUBLIC LIBRARY.
Tho Maysvlllo Public Library hns
Just received thrro sets of books of
reference. Tho first is "Tho Book of
Knowledge," consisting of twenty vol
umes. Tlio cdltor-lnchlef is A. Mco,
and tho assistant editor is Hollnnd
Thompson.
"Great Events," consisting of twenty-two
volumes, beginning 2,000 years
beforo Christ. Editor In chief, Ros
slter Johnson: assistant editors, F.
Homo Ph. D., and John Rudd, L. L. D.
Tho third Is "Hind's Precedents of
tho Houso of Representatives," In
eight volumes.
Theso books nro tlio latest and In n
class to themselves.
Our price this week for buttcrfat,
32 cents Maysvlllo. Bring It In any
day, any tlmo of tho day, and reccivo
your check promptly.
MAYSVILLE MODEL CREAMERY.
Tho friends of Mrs. John E. Bould
ln, who Is nt tho hospital, will bo glad
to know that sho Is somewhat Im
proved. Messrs. Wlllctt Hltt and John Shedd
of Alhambra, wore business visitors
lit this city Tuesday.
SVOGEL'S STAR BRAND HAMS:
5 ORDER ONE TODAY J
nome-Ljrown potatoes ihc Ker Keck
Our Own Make Sauer Kraut 25c Gallon
DINGER BROS.,
107 West Second Street.
Phone 20.
Miss .Mabel Paul of Williams street.
I.i visiting her grandparents, Mr and
Mrs. Luther Tucker of Murphysvllle.
Mr. Bon Curry of January street, Is
out after being confined to his room
for a wcok with grip.
LOOK HERE!
Why Go to the Trouble and Expense of Ordering From a City
When We Have a Complete I,inc of
s Trusses, Crutches $ Abdominal Supports
At a Reasonable Price. See Us.
M. F. WILLIAMS DRUG COMPANY
M
Towels of every
to $1. Hunt's.
variety, from 10oi A. P. Suit of Maysllck, was on the
'tobacco breaks Tuesday.
?1 tablo linen you can't equal any
where for tho price. Hunt's.
r
THE HDME DT QUALITY CLOTHES
Our Semi-Annual Shirt Sale
Begins Next Tuesday, the 8th
Manhattan $1.50 shirts at $1.25.
Manhattan $2 Shirts at $1.65.
Eclipse $1 Shirt at 85c.
This sale will continue for ten days. You know they are
the best brands of shirts made in the country.
Our cut prices on the best clothes made continues until
further notice.
'pgmoHiyrc3-HiR cs, oo. I
THE ANNUAL SHOWING OF LINENS
Despite the shortage in this year's linen Importations, owing to the curtailment of manufacturing activities abroad because of large
(luautitles bought far in advance wo can now announce this, our greatest showing of Linens, with tho same stnndards of quality as hereto
fore and the snmo low "before-the-war prices."
Wo call especial attention to our unusually largo assortment of Tablo Danmsk at 50c to $3. Dig stock at In-between prices. Irish,
Scotch and French linens of unusual beauty. Other interesting features are:
Damask Ton els -"c to $1.2.',.
Hurk Tom-Is 10c to $1.5(.
Turkish Tonels 10c to ".'('.
Guest Towels 10c to 50c.
Crash Toncling 5c to 20c )iml.
lluck Toweling 2."c to 00c yard.
Towels arc only ono of the many Interesting Items here. Ask to ( our Linen Sheeting 2& yards vtldr, carefully shrunk, ","c, OSc, $1.10,
nnd $1.50.
Illenclicd nnd Silver bleached Table Linen 72 inches wide. Wonderful pattern uiriety, unsurpassed quality, $1, $1.25 yard. Xnpklns to
match $2JS $2.0$.
Exquisite heavy Table Damask, satin gloss, 72 inch width, $2.9S yard. .Watch Napkins $C50.
Coats For Little Women 6 to 14 Years Old
Largest and finest collection In Mnysvllle for girls of 6 and 14 years, mother tells us. They liko tho slmplo styles, tho warm linings
and Intcrlinings and tho materials which aro both serviceable and smart. And they like tho prices which aro $2, $3, $1 nnd $3 for coats
actually worth $4, $6, ?8 and $10.
1852
WANTED.
Second-hand desk and cabinet. Seo
Ledgor Publishing Company.
Mr. John Bouldln Is nblo to be at his! Dress uud household Uncus of ex
desk again In tho First National Dankl coptlonnl beauty now ou display at
after an attack of grip. ' Hunt's, l'rices very moderate.
3 I -
Miss Elizabeth Stono Is still on tho
sick list at her homo on East Second
street.
We Will Accept Just 10 More Delineator Subscriptions
at 75c per year, just half price, and then our Delineator Club will bo filled and tho 9
price goes back to $1.50 year.
You must call at our store each month for same. .
The March number has arrived. 2
Shoe Repairing For Men, Ladies and Children i
Send your old shoes to us by parcel post and we will return them to you tho same
day repaired. J
Wo use tho best materials, and our workmanship is first olass. Try us on an old 9
pair.
I ill
5 -'.HW
v.
V;. 3
1Mb V .'
PrlcrM8c6.IIunCa,d, .
