*?&*
Us
VOLUME XXXVII.
OIL TO BE SPREAD
ON CITY'S STREETS
PURCHASE OF OIL SPREADER
AND NECESSARY FLUID
DECIDED UPON
CITY'S FUTURE WATER SUPPLY
MAY BE INVESTIGATED
BY EXPERT
When the city council met in adjourned
session Monday evening they crowded a
lot of business into the short space of
three hours. They decided to do away
with the present sprinkling of the streets
and begin to use oil, ordered a call for
bids for a new deep well pump at the
waterworks station, looked over the
plans for a new building at the City
cemetery and decided to pay off $10,000
of the city's bonded indebtedness.
The matter of oiling the streets was
decided upon after a lengthy and ex
haustive discussion in which every mem
ber of the city council, the engineer,
clerk, superintendent and the city at
torney took part. Alderman Eibner
made a thorough report on the cost of the
present method of laying the dust on the
streets. According to his investigations
the city used 7,250,000 gallons of water
on the streets during the past year, a
rainy season, at a cost of 8 cents per
1,000 gallons for pumping alone, which
would amount to $5.67 for every 50-foot
front on Minnesota street. Besides this
the city paid $320 per month for labor
during the last sprinkling season. Two
applications of oil, figuring 4 gallons of
the fluid to the square foot would have
amounted to but $5.00 per 50-foot front
on the same street.
At the present time sprinkling districts
are created upon petition of the property
owners and the question of just how to
proceed with the apportionment of the
cost of oiling had to be left open for the
present. Inasmuch as the council does
not intend to stop" at the oiling of the
downtown streets now sprinkled, it was
the concensus of opinion that the cost
should be borne by the entire city. It is
possible that the roads to the cemetery,
hospitals and south as far as the Aufder
heide hill may be treated with oil, but
this was all left for future consideration.
A motion prevailed, however, that the
streets be oiled this year and that bids
be received for a 500-gallon oil wagon and
100,000 gallons of oil. It is estimated
that the oil can be procured at approxi
mately 4 cents a gallon and an oil wagon
for about $500. The total cost for the
first year was estimated at $5,000.
The necessity of anew deep well pump
at the pumping station opened up another
wide field of discussion, in which the
problem of the city's future water supply
entered as no mean factor. Alderman
Eibner reported that members of the
water committee had visited the cities
and viewed a pump now in operation in
St. Paul which seems to meet the require
ments of the local plant. It is proposed
to install a new pump in place of the
present Ludweiler pump and pump the
water directly into the mains instead of
at first storing it the small German park
reservoir and then handling it again to
pump it into the mains and large reser
voir on Center street hill. The city
clerk was instructed to advertise for bids
for a deep well pump according to speci
fications of the water superintendent.
The estimated cost of the new pump is
$1,700, but should the direct connection
with the mains be made at the pump
station the cost will be almost double
that amount.
In a general discussion of the subject
of the city's future water supply it was
suggested that the city secure the services
of an expert on such matters to make a
thorough investigation of the problem.
How to get rid of the present expensive
manner of handling the water with
pumps was discussed and Alderman
Krook gave some interesting data on
studies he had made of the ground for
mations along the Big and Little Cotton
wood rivers, where there are a number of
small sprigs. Alderman Eibner brought
up the matter of utilizing what is Jcnown
as Marschner's Creek, about two miles
south of the present reservoir. At recent
invesitgation developed the fact that this
spring furnishes 150 gallons per minute
and is located high enough to reduce the
cost of pumping to a minimum. The
flow in this spring has not changed and
the water is pure, according to reports
made by former investigators. This is
one of the things to be investigated by
the espert who probably will be secured
as soon as weather conditions permit.
Upon motion of Alderman Krook, tie
council decided to pay off $10,000 of the
present bonded indebtedness of the city.
The matter of a new building at the
City cemetery had already been taken
up at the meeting of the council last
Tuesday evening. It is proposed to
erect a brick building, 20x30 feet, sur
rounded on three sides by wide porches.
The plans submitted by City Engineer
Minium were presented to the council
and it was decided to construct the
building out of a gray brick, resembling
rough stucco. Several alterations as to
elevation and other minor details will be
worked out by the city engineer.
The finance committee was instructed
to purchase anew desk at the office of the
city clerk, the old one having outlived
its usefulness.
FINANCIAL HELP
TO BUILD BRIDGE
COMMISSIONERS AGREE TO AID
PRAIRIEVILLE HIGHWAY
IMPROVEMENTS
RURAL HIGHWAY CONTRACTOR
MUST WAIT FOR PART OF
HIS MONEY
A special session of the board of county
commissioners was held at the court
house Friday of last week, at which time
the disposition of several road construc
tion contracts was taken up and other
matters of minor importance discussed
and transacted. The road contract
which came before the board was an
estimate still due B. J. Schmitz in the
sum of $1,961.44, for the grading of
state rural highway No. 54. It was de
cided to pay $1,000 on the contract and
hold the balance until some later date.
The supervisors of the township of
Prairieville appeared before the board
and presented a petition asking for an
appropnation from the county to aid
the construction of a steel and concrete
bridge across Judicial Ditch No. 1,
located on the boundary line of Brown
and Redwood counties. The petitioners
stated that the cost of the new bridge
would not exceed $1,000 and asked the
county to stand one-half of the expense.
This the board agreed to do and the
chairman appointed Commissioners
Palmer and Henle to work in conjunction
with the township authorities in the
letting of the contract and the inspection
and construction of the same.
C. N. Robertson was employed as as
sistant state highway engineer for the
six summer months, beginning with May
and ending with October.
For the purpose of better results in the
repair of the road, State Rural Highway
No. 54 was divided into three sections,
the first to be under the supervision of
Commissioner Henle, the second under
Commissioner Palmer and the third
under Commissioner Polkow.
A resolution was passed asking the
state tax commission to refund to the
City of New Ulm the taxes on lot 4,
block 104 north of Center street. Other
applications for the refunding of taxes
were held over for further investigation.
MARCH FIRST LAST DAY FOR
DECLARING INCOME.
According to statements issued by
officials the income tax law will be
strictly enforced this year and persons
earning more than $4,000 if maimed and
$3,000 if single will have to declare them
selves before March 1 if they want to
escape the consequent penalties. Al
though the law went into effect a year
ago, but little attention has been paid it
so far, some cases because people were
ignorant of the law and in others because
people ignored it and were not pushed by
the government.
Single persons earning $3,000 or more
during the year 1915 must make and file
their exemptions, while married in
dividuals earning $4,000 or over must
do likewise. The only exception to this
rule is in such cases where the income is
derived from dividends of a corporation,
the reason for this being that the corpo
ration already pays a tax on such divi
dends. However, if one's income from
dividends amounts to $20,000 or more,
return must be made on the amount.
Corporations which have been doing
business during 1915 must make return
to the government, regardless of what the
income has been.
Orders have been received by the local
militia officers to prepare for the annual
inspection by the battalion commander
on Feb. 29. Company A, the Machine
Gun company and the Headquarters
company will be inspected by Major
Arthur Johnson.
YOTERS WILL HAYE
ELECTIONS GALORE
PRESIDENTIAL PRIMARIES AND
VILLAGE ELECTIONS ON SAME
DAY.
REGULAR STATE PRIMARIES TO
BE HELD SECOND TUESDAY
IN JUNE.
Tuesday, March 14, election day in
the several villages and townships of the
state, will be of double interest this year
because of the presidential preference
primary, which is held on the same day,
in accordance with the Minnesota pri
mary law passed by the 1913 legislature.
The ballots will bear the narres of the
candidates for president and vice presi
dent of all parties and the names of all
candidates for delegates and alternates
to the national convention of each party
as well as the names of all candidates for
presidential electors.
The law says that the presidential can
didate receiving the highest number of
votes, shall be declared the choice of the
party, and that the delegates elected on
going to the convention, shall to the best
of their judgment and ability, faithfully
carry out the wishes of the voters, as
expressed at the primaries.
The law is indefinite on many points,
and if attacked, it is doubtful if it would
be sustained by the courts. For in
stance, the law says that two delegates
shall be elected from each congressional
district, but it is difficult to tell from the
law whether they shall vote for the
presidential candidate who receives the
highest number of votes in their par
ticular district, or for the candidate who
receives the highest number in the state.
Another point left unexplained is whether,
if they find that the candidate their
state has voted for has no possible chance
in the national convention, they are to
vote for him throughout the convention
all. On just these points it is believed
the primary law will lose its effect, as the
matter of choice seems to have been
left to the individual delegate or the
state delegation, just as it always has
been under the old system of party
caucuses and conventions.
These primaries in March, however,
are not the only ones the voters will have
to contend with this year. There will
be a second primary in June, at which
time they will be called upon to make
their choice of candidates for the follow
ing offices: United States senator, gover
(Continued on Page 4.)
W*1ft6e« FOflTSC RITT
FOR A I
NEW ULM, BROWN COUNTY, MINNESOTA, WEDNESDAY, FEB. 9,1916.
or whether they must vote for him "at bufiding is completed," figuring $5,600
for the lot and $15,000 for the building.
There will be a full ttasement connected
with the fruit store and the upper floor
will be built suitable for office purposes.
OUR MEN OF AFFAIRS
_^ NI6MT fOLtcei
1
i, W lAtofr
WM. J. JULIUS, Sheriff of Brown County
BRICK BLOCK WILL
REPLACE LANDMARK
NEW BUSINESS BLOCK' FOR
NORTH SECOND STREET AND
MINNESOTA.
FIRST FLOOR ALREADY LEASED
BY CANDY AND FRUIT
COMPANY.
Another of the ancient landmarks of
the city will have to give way to improve
ment and progress during 1916 and a
new and substantial structure will grace
the business section of the city before the
year is far advanced. The building to
disappear from Minnesota street is the
so-called Peuser building, on the corner
of [Second North and Minnesota streets?
now and for the past thirty years occu
pied by the Peuser barber shop. It is at
present owned by Dr. Geo. B. Weiser,
who purchased it about a year ago from
the Peuser estate.
A two-story building will be erected
there during the coming spring and
building operations are expected to begin
as soon as the frost is out of the ground.
The first floor will be arranged according
to the plans of parties who have already
secured a lease on the* quarters for a
modern and up-to-date candy kitchen
and fruit store. These parties are now
operating stores in several Southern
Minnesota cities and have been desirous
of locating in New Ulm for some time
but were unable to secure adequate
quarters in any of the present buildings.
They give it out that they will make an
investment of approximately $5,000 in
fixtures and interior decorations alone,
consequently something on the metro
politan order may be expected.
Although the plans for the new build
ing have not yet been drawn nor all the
miner details as to the upper floor settled,
it is expected that Dr. Weiser will invest
cl©.' e-tp $20,Q0Qrin thencorner before the
The old Peuser building is indeed an
old landmark of the city. It originally
contained only the room now used by the
barber shop and was moved to its present
location from near the present Eagle
Roller Mills site, where it had been
erected in the late '50 as one of the
settlement's first residences It came
into the hands of the Peuser family in the
early sixties. The old building will be
moved to the rear of the lot and will
FOR FIVE ye*&
M£M0*ft
COMWwy »/T
aw
Ae&me«r
MfKNE»OTA
GUARDS,
probably continue to be used for the
purpose it now serves.
Several other improvements are on the
program for the present year, among
them the new Bastian building on the
site pj-the old Toberer building, nearly
opposite the building to be erected by Dr.
Weiser. This, toq, is to be a substantial
improvement on North Minnesota street,
as it will be two stories high and con
structed of brick and will be modern
throughout.
Plans have also been made for a new
building adjoining the Gem Theatre, on
the property owned by Geo. Arbes. It
has not been given out to what purpose
this new building will be put, but it is
rumored that a new garage will be
started there in the course of the summer.
SHERIFF ARRESTS
REAL ESTATE HAN
FRED GUSECKf CHARGED WITH
TRYING TO BEAT HIS
BOARD BILL
CASE TO BE HEARD THURSDAY
ACCUSED OUT ON BAIL
MEANTIME
Deputy Sheriff Hermann Jahnke re
turned last Wednesday evening from
Minneapolis, where he had gone with a
warrant for the arrest of Fred Guseck,
who is charged with having fraudulently
obtained food and lodging at a local
hotel with the intent of avoiding pay
ment. The deputy states that he evi
dently arrived at the Wesc hotel just in
time as he was told by the hotel clerk
that the man he wanted was about to
leave for South Dakota and had already
checked out. Guseck was located, how
ever, and brought to New Ulm, where
he resided at the county "hoosgow"
until Friday afternoon when he was
arraigned before Justice Henningsen.
Tiie ease was~continued until Thursday,,
Feb. 10th and he was released on his
own recognizance on a $250 cash bond.
Inquiry develops that the warrant
was issued upon complaint of Andreas
Amann, proprietor of the Merchants
Hotel, where Guseck had been stopping
several months last summer until some
time in October, when he left for Minne
apolis. It is alleged that Guseck wrote
out a check on the Farmers Bank of
Fessenden, So. Dak., for $100, but that
Mr. Amann has never been able to
realize anything on the check. Guseck
it is said, had left in the meantime and
Mr. Amann made the complaint as
stated.
Efforts were made Monday to obtain,
if possible, Mr. Guseck's version of the
affair, but his whereabouts could not be
established. According to his attorney,
other business matters were requiring
his attention elsewhere, but he will un
doubtedly be on hand when the case
comes up for trial next Thursday.
While in New Ulm last summer and
fall Guseck was in the land business,
both for himself and as a representative
of a Minneapolis land company.
MORE ADVERTISING FOR CITY
Advertising the city was the main
topic up for consideration of the Com
mercial Club at its regular monthly
meeting last Monday evening and a
committee was appointed to formulate
a plan of campaign and submit it to the
members at the next meeting. The
booklets descriptive of New Ulm recently
published are to be sent out systemati
cally to people and cities where they will
do some good. The several merchants of
the city will be asked to aid in this dis
tribution.
A comunication was read from Mayer
Bros, of Mankato who are contemplating
removing their machine shops to New
Ulm. The communication stated that
it would take about $25,000 of local
capital to get the plant for this city, the
free site offered them recently by the
Club not being deemed a sufficient in
ducement.
Otto Lundwall Erickson was elected a
member of the club and the resignation
of F. A. Schrupp, who expects to leave
the city in the near future was accepted.
President Ottomeyer appointed the
following committee to work out the
advertising campaign: P. Liesch, F. W.
Johnson and T. Schonlau.
Improvements to cost several hundred
dollars were decided upon at the meeting
of the Turnverein held Saturday evening.
Several necessary changes will be made
for the accommodation of patrons of the
Turner Theatre and also at the club
rooms.
XA%.*sz- JfiSlfr-em
NUMBER 6
MAPLES SCATTER
AT CLUB ALLEYS
SLEEPY EYE BUNCH SPRINGS
SURPRISE IN SINGLES AND
DOUBLES
FIVE MEN EVENT CAPTURED
BY AMERICANS WITH PINS
TO SPARE
The bowling tournament held by the
bowlers of New Ulm during the past
week came to an end Sunday evening
with Bierbaum the last man to bowl.
Much interest was manifested as to the
outcome of the tournament as the
bowlers of this city have been doing
some very good bowling during the past
few weeks and the competition for first
place in the tournee was keen.
The entries came up to the expecta
tions, 23 names being handed in for
singles, 10 for doubles and five five-men
teams entering. The entry fee was $1.50
of which 25 cents was retained for ex
penses and the rest divided up for the
purses. The first prize in the five-men
event was $14.00, which went to the
Americans, the second prize $9.00, to the
Majors, and the third prize $7.50 which
went to the Spinners.
The prizes in the doubles and the
leaders were as follows:
Emmerich-Huhn, 1086 pins $10 00
Glotzbach-Maurer, 1060 7 00
Sherman-Seidel, 1025 5 00
Backer-Dahms, 1015 3 00
In the singles the eight top men divided
the purses as follows:
Maurer, 605 pins $8 00
Glotzbach, 599 5 50
Seifert,559 4 00
Bierbaum, 554. 3 00
Wicherski, 546 2 50
Huhn,546 2 00
Baasen, 520 75
Lindemann, 512. 1 50
One of the surprises of the tournament
was the good bowling of the Sleepy Eye
pin hitters in the singles and doubles. In
the singles they took first and second
money, Maurer leading off with 605 and
Glotzbach having 599. In the doubles
they took second and third place, Glotz
bach and Maurer ranking second with
1060 and Sherman and Seidel being third
with 1025 pins. In the five-men matches
the Sleepy Eye team however was
unable to do anything, making only an
even 2300.
Seifert and Bierbaum ranked second
and third respectively, the former get
ting 559 and the latter 554 pins.
Wicherski and Huhn were tied for fifth
and sixth places with 546 pins each while
seventh place went to Baasen and Linde
mann took the last prize. R. Dahms
received the booby prize, which was a box
of ten cent cigars, being low man in the
singles with 409 pins. The cigars were pre
seneted by Gene Koehler as consolation
for the low score.
Emmerich and Huhn lead off in the
doubles with 1086. Second and third
places went to Sleepy Eye and the fourth
was taken by Backer and R. Dahms, who
took it by 3 pins making 1015, Berg and
H. Dahms being the two lower men with
1012.
In the five men event the Americans
took first money with a total of 2613
pins. Reilly Dahms and "Cy" Groeb
ner were the high men in this event,,
Groebner making a total of 578 and
Dahms a total of 572 pins. The next
team in this event was the Majors with
a total of 2438 and the next in line were
the Spinners who took third money.
The highest single score in this event was
212 pins made by Dahms in the first
game for the Americans.
The highest single score made in the
tournament was 242 pins made by
Maurer in the singles. The highest
score for three games is also credited ta
him, the score being 605 made in the
singles. Glotzbach had the highest
average for the match, making a total of
1603 pins or an average of 178 pins a
game. Maurer of Sleepy Eye and Wi
cherski of New Ulm were close seconds
with a total of 1590 each, an average of
177 pins a game.
On Sunday afternoon the bowlers had
the privilege of entering into special
events, in both singles and doubles.
Twelve men entered into each event.
The following won the first four places in
the singles respectively, Burmeister,.
Baasen, Seifert, Dahms. In the doubles
the prizes were won by Seifert-Baasen,
Emmerich-R. Dahms, Raabe-Huhn.
The tournament was so interesting
that it has been rumored that the Sleepy
Eye bowlers will try to arrange a tourna
ment to be held in that town. _„
The individual scores of the tourna
ment will be found on page 6 oi this issue.
1.
1
v-4
v*~
3 JiS.
