THE BARRE DAILY TIMES
VOL. XIX-NO. 279.
iMAKUK, VKHMOXT, AVKDXKSDA V, FEHRUAKV 9, 1910.
PWCK, OXK CENT.
i
.800 YARDS OF
FRENCH FRONT
WAS CAPTURED
Germans Report Importan
Success to West of Vimy,
French First Positions Be
ing Seized in an OfFensive
Movement To-day
600,000, GERMANS ARE
MASSED FOR ATTACK
In the Caucasus, the Turks
Claim Defeat for Russians
as Also for Czar's Troops
in Attack by the Persian
Tribesmen
Berlin, via London, Feb. 9. The cap
ture of the first line of French positions
over a front of 800 yards to the west of
Vimy was announced to-day by the war
office.
The predicted German offensive on the
Franco-Belgian front has not yet devel
oped, but reports of preparation for it
persist. The latent advices concerning
these supposed preparations came to-day
from Amsterdam in a report that tjOO,000
men have been sent by the Germans to
Belgium.
Constantinople, advices report setbacks
for the Russians in the Caucasus ea'm
aign and in Persia. Petrograd, while not
reporting on the Persian operations, de
clares that engagements in the Caucasus
have continued to result to the advan
tage of the Kussians.
A statement from Athens says a deci
sion has been reached by the central
powers to maintain their entrenched po
sitions at present, tnus apparently con
tradicting earlier reports that the Teu
tonic allies were soon to begin an ad
vance on Saloniki.
GERMAN CONSUL INDICTED.
Frans Bopp at San Francisco Charged in
Crowley Plot. ,
Washington. I). C. Feb. , 0. Genua
Consul General Fran Ihipn was indicted
in San rranciavo by a grand jury yeater
day in connection with the so-calli
Crowley plot to blow tin munition
plants , and interfere with interstate
commerce in munitions of war, acceding
to a report received at the department
of justice. .
Bopp was reported indicted under the
Mierman anti trust law ami under tin'
section of the penal code which forbid
a conspiracy to set on foot a military
expedition from the Cnited State
against a friendly nut ion.
Two of the alleged plots for which
Bopp and others were indicted involved
plans for blowing up tunnels on a tan
Hilian railway, it is charged, and were
designed to hamper shipments to the
eastern sesboard and Kugltind. Bopp is
believed bv department of justice off!
ciitls to be the head of an organization
w hich formed the plots with I row ley as
the active agent who attempted to carry
them out.
In the Sacramento case? officials be
lieve thev have stronger evidence than
they had in tho recent Ilamburg-Anier
ican ease in New York in which several
persons were convicted and given iieni
tentiary sentences.
MARINE CIRCLES
MADE ANXIOUS
By Rumor That Large British Liner Had
Fallen Victim to a German Com
merce Raider The Orissa
Is Reported.
New York, Feb. 0. Anxiety in ship
ping and marine insurance circles, in
spired by reports that a large British
lassenger ship, thought to he the Onssa,
had fallen a. victim to a German com
merce raider, was somewhat relieved to
day by receipt of information that the
Irissa touched at .St. incent, tape
erde islands, on Jan. 24.
WERE ALREADY MARRIED.
RUSSIAN REVERSE
IN PERSIAN INVASION
German Source of Information Says That
Czar's Forces Met with Severe
Defeat at Hands of
Tribesmen.
Berlin, via wireless, Feb. 0. Constan
tinople reports given out to-day by the
Overseas Xcws agency state that Rus
sian forces in Persia have met with a
severe defeat at the hands of tho Persian
tribesmen and have retreited in disor
der. The Persian forces attacked the
Russians near SandshuIaK, which was re
conquered by the natives.
GPPOSE SPIRIT
OF conscription!
Got Ahead of Engagement Announce-
ment By a Week.
Hrattleboro. Feb. 9. lien the en
gagement of John C. Skinner of this
town and Miss Mary I. Benson of Xew
fane was announced at a surprise party
rranged by Miss Bauson s parents in
ewfane Saturday night, the couple al
ready had been married a week, but
eir, parents didn't know it.
The fact came to light. yesterday when
town Clerk Carl S. Hopkins of Brat
tleboro opened Iub mail and found the
marriage license which lie issued to Mr,
Skinner late in January. It was re
turned "from White River Junction by
Rev. S. 11. Smith, pastor of the Meth
odist church, and nave the date of the
marriage as Jan. 29.
Since the evening Mr. Skinner, who is
36 years old and a contractor, has been
at the home of his mother. Mrs. Rebecca
Skinner, and the bride, who is 22, has
been in the liome of her parents, Mr.
and Mrs. M.. P. Skinner, proprietors of
the Windham County house, Xcwfane.
It was known that Mr. Skinner was
to be at the young woman's home Sat
urday night, so her parents planned a
surprise and invited 60 guests.
"We thought we were giving them a
surprise," said Mr. Benson vesterday,
"but it seems the surprise was on us."
SPURNS
PEACE
OFFER
Belgium Said to Have Been
Offered Restoration of the
Country to King; Albert's
Government and Payment
of Large Indemnity to
Cover Damages Sustained
IN RETURN TO ALLOW
A PORT OF ENTRY
Italian Newspaper Is Source
of Information That De
clares Germany's Peace
Proposal Was Taken to
Belgium by Monsignor
Taoci Porcelli
And Will Exercise Vigilant Scrutiny of
Any Proposed Extension of Mili
tary Service Act, Decides
British Miners' Con
ference. Lancaster. England, F'eb. 9. At the
Jtiiners' conference the following resolu
tion was adopted: "The conference ex
k presses opposition to the spirit of eon
ecription and is determined to exercise
vigilant scrutiny of any proposed ex
tension of the military service act."
ZEPPELINS REPORTED LOST.
One By Reason of Collision with Tree,
Another from French Attack.
Amsterdam, via London, Feb. 0. The
F.cho Beige publishes a report that two
Zeppelins have been lost near Aph, in
JIainault. The first collided with a tree
top while returning from a raid on Paris
m Jan. 30. The second was brought
down by a French airman within a few
miles of the same place.
A MYSTERIOUS POISON.
Took Baby's Life and Endangered Three
Others in Family.
Rochester, X. Y F'eb. 9. A baby is
dead and its parents, Theodore and Lena
Hansen, and a sister. era, six yejirs
old, are in a hospital, the mother fight
ing for her life as the result of the ef
fect of a poison which the police inves
tigators and physicians have as yet been
unable to identify.
The four were found lying on the floor
of their home at SO0 Joseph avenue, this
city, yesterday afternoon by two other
children of the family, Theodore, jr.,
and Robert, six and eight years old, re
spectively. The lioys summoned an am-,
bulance themselves, probably saving the
lives of their father and mother and
sister. The baby died on the way to the
hospital.
It developed at the hospital that the
older members of the, family Imd eaten
a luncheon of whiskey, sausage and beer
in a room in which a charcoal fire im
properly regulated was burning.
Physicians are in doubt whether al
cohol, ptomaine, strychnine or gas "was
the poison element, ah nave mucn tne
same symptoms, it is said.
Rome, via Paris, Feb. 9. Giornale
DTtalia states that Monsignor Taoci Por
celli, papal nunrio to Belgium, presented
to Belgium Germany's proposal for sep
rate peace. , It is said that Germany,
through Prince Von Buelow and Other
prominent personages, has indicated the
terms it is ready to offei to Belgium,
which include the restoration of Belgium
to the government of King Albert and
the payment of a large indemnity for
damages caused by invasion and occupa
tion and asks in return economic and
commercial privileges which would vir
tually transform the port of Antwerp
into a German center of traffic.
To these proposals Belgium is said to
have replied with a prompt refusal and a
declaration of her intention to adhere to
the allies and not conclude a separate
peace.
Statements regarding .efforts being
made to induce Cardinal Mercier to use
his influence for separate peace have also
been made but it is asserted that the ef
forts have been entirely in vain. Cardi
nal Mercier is living in strict retirement
here, receiving no visitors.
NAKED LAMP IGNITED GAS.
TWO CARS WERE BURNED.
After Train Collision in Which Score of
People Were Hurt.
Washington, Pcnn., Feb. 9 More than
score of persons were injured, two
probably fatally, in a collision lust night
ix-tween a passenger and a freight train
on the Waliash-l'ittsburg terminal rail
road at.Hkkory. near here. Gasoline
lamps in the smoking car exploded after
the accident and both the smoker and
"a day coach were burned.
DRANK POISON IN HOTEL. .
Man Had Tried in Every Way to Con
ceal Identity.
Springfield. Mass., Feb. fl. An uniden
tified man, thought to lie a commercial
traveler from Boston, committed suicide
In Hotel Worthy by drinking a solution
f cyanide of potassium. He was regis
tered as F. F.. ;ray of Nrw York." but
nothing on hm person or in bis luggage
verifies the name.
The hotel authorities ay I lie man reg
istered at i Monday afternoon, lie did
n"t answer a rail yesterday morning and
early last night his room was forcibly
rntercd. The ho.lv was found far down
ward on the floor and an empty glass
was near by.
Medical Kiaminer I J. Mahoney
60,000 BARRELS BURNED.
Cooperage Plant at Billerica, Mass., Has
$40,000 Fire.
Lowell, Mass., F'eb. S. The cooperage
plant of the Swift and company's Low
ell fertilizer plant over the South Low
ell line in Billerica was burned to the
ground last night at an estimated loss
of $40,000, covered by insurance. Sixty
thousand empty barrels, costing .18 cents
each to manufacture, were stored in the
building anil destroyed. The machinery
for making the barrels was valued at
between ."i.Hsl and n.lMHI.
The fire started in the kiln drying
shed and inadequate water facilities
hanlicapH'd the Billerica fire depart
ment and a portion of the Lowell de
part ment which responded. Had the
wind hern blowing in the opposite direc
tion the main plant of (he company.
employing .VXI hands and in which stock
valued at .(sKl.ial i. stored, would have
been endangered. The loss of the bar
rel will not handicap the plant, it is
said, as sufficient containers may 1 pur
chased for the spring trade.
Seven Workmen Were Killed in Wilkes
Barre Coal Mine.
Wilkes-Barre. Pa., Feb. 9. Seven
workmen were killed and two injured by
a gas explosion in the Ross vein of the
Lehigh and Wilkcs-Barre Coal company
at Plymouth late vesterdHV. All the
victims were of foreign birth and sev
eral of them left large families. The
injured, although seriously hurt, are ex
pected to recover. It is lielieved that
some of the men were killed by black
damp which followed the explosion.
The cause of the explosion has not
been definitely determined, but the gas
is believed to have been ignited by the
naked lamp of one of the miners. Ow
ing to the force of the blasr, which
badly damaged the inside workings of
the mine, the; rescue work was slow and
tedious. About 100 men were in the
mine when the explosion occurred. They
were hurled in all directions, several
of the dead and injured being found
scattered along the gangway. Those
who escaped the blast rushed to the
foot of the shaft only to find that
wreckage had made it impossible to
hoist or tower the carnages.
A large recu squad whs quickly sent
to work and after several hours sue
ceeded in forcing an opening through
the wreckage and bringing the nnpria
oned miners to the surface. At midnight
it was announced that nil had been ac
counted for. Hundreds of persons gath
ered about the mouth of the mine await
ing news of relatives and friends.
JUMPING ON TRAIN,
RUTLAND MAN KILLED
Elmer A. Smith's Mangled Body Was
, Found Last Night 20 Minutes
After He Had Left Home
to Attend a Union
Meeting.
Rutland, Feb. 9. Flmcr A. Smith, em
ployed as a painter for many years in
the Howe Scale works, was instantly
killed, while attempting to jump a ride
on a freight train on the main line of
the Boston division of the Rutland rail
road in the vicinity of the Howe Scale
work's crossing last night, hia body be
ing terribly mutilate, art of the head
being crushed to pieces. Mr. Smith, who
was secretary of the Painters' and Dec-
ocrators' union, was on bis way to at
tend a meeting of this organization at
the time of the accident. The body was
discovered lying inside the rails of tne
main line about 20 minutes after the
unfortunate man left his home.
The railroad official and Health Offi
cer F. if. (iebliardt were called and the
tody, after being identified, was removed
to the undertaking rooms of John B,
Stearns. Mrs. Smith, when told her
husband was injured, became hysterical
and is in a serious condition as result
of collapse.
It is prolblo that Mr. Smith at
tempted to catch a rid.' on train Xo. 127.
a freight in charge of Fred H. Clark,
conductor, and R. B. Lord, engineer. On
the ninth car and on several cars to
wards the hack of the train were found
marks of blood. Besides injuries to bis
head, the lower part of Mr. Smith's
bodv was terribly mangled.
Mr. Smith was about 3.) years old. He
leaves, besides his wife, who was Miss
Annie Gihoolcv, a son, Harry j his moth
er, Mrs. Belle Johnson, proprietor of the
Cottage hosriital on. Lincoln avenue; a
sister, Miss Emily Smith, a nurse, and
one brother, Joseph Smith.
BOSTON MAY BE
BASE FOR PLOTS
REVIEWED BY GRAND LECTURER,
Be Running Down Per
sistent Reports
SWAN TON LIBRARY DEDICATED.
Building Made Possible By Efforts of
King's Daughters.
Swanton, Feb. 9. The dedication of
the new public library building erected
by the King's Daughters of this town is
in progress, here to-dav. The exercises
began with an Introductory address by
Mrs. A. L. Oofs, president, after which
prayer was ottered by Rev, E. S. Stone,
rector of Holy Trinity church. I lie re
port of 'the building committee was giv
en by Mrs. C. E. Allen, chairman, and
the report of the advisory committee by
A. Webster, chairman of that conimtt-
ee. there was music ty the school chil
dren. At 3:30 oelock Miss Rebecca
Wright, seeretarv of the state library
commission, gave a talk to the children,
nd following this an informal reception
took place in the audience room. There
was music, and refreshments were
served. The dedication exercises will
take place in the town hall this evening,
when an address will lie given bv Miss
Mary Saxe of Montreal, who is identitied
ith librarv work. An address; will be
given also by Frederick Tupper, profes
sor of English literature in the Univer
sity of Vermont.
The local socictr of King's Daughters
as organized in 181XI with a member
ship of 10. The library was started in a
mall wav in 1898. in a room in the
Blake building, and has gradually grown
to over 3.000 volumes. The library
building fund was started in 1902 with
2.
In the meantime the King's Daughters
have been working to accumulate a suf
ficient sum for the erection of a librarj"
building. A year ago committees were
appointed to take charge of the work.
The plan selected was from the office
of Archibald & Saxe, architects, of Mont
real, and the work was carried on under
the supervision' of J L. C. Best of St.
Albans. The contractor for the erection j
of the building was C. K. Prouty of
Swanton. The building is at the corner
of Crand avenue and First street, on the
site of the old Central house. The lot
was presented the King's Daughters by
Mrs. S. S. Cushman of Hull, Out. The.
building is a two-story brick structure,
36 by 48 feet, of colonial design, with
slate roof.
The main entrance is from Grand ave
nue, with a w ide cement walk leading to
t lie porch, which is of cement and Swan
ton marble. On entering the building
the vestibule is seen to be finished in
Swanton marble. On either side of the
broad center aisle leading to the libra
rian's desk are two large reading rooms.
one for the use of children and the other
Royal Arch Degree at Third Capitular
Masonic District Meeting.
Masons of the third capitular district,
including representations from Whitney
chapter, Xo. 5, of Randolph, King Solo
mon chapter, Xo, 7, of Montpclier, and
Waterhiirv chanter. No. 21. of Water-
Federal Authorities Said tO bury, met with the members of Granite
chapter. No. 2tt, Tuesday afternoon and
evening for their regular meeting. 1 lie
district gathering served to assemble a
number of grand chapter officers, who re
viewed the work and participated .'ii tin
ceremonials. At 3:30 o'clock, a roya
arch chapter was owned in full form by
DICTAGRAPH RECORDS Gr.nit.ch.pter. A half-hour later a
n A -rr-i m-k tiTittnn 1 ocige Ol most excellent inasicra v. bo
bAID TO FIGURE opened by King Solomon chapter and the
conferring of the degree followed. J ne
work wa reviewed by the grand lectur
er, t.eorge I. Whitnev of Bellows J-alls
following the close of the atternoon
exercises, the ladies of the Eastern Star,
Ruth chapter, served an excellent ban
quet to the M'isoiis. At 7:45 o'clock the
chapter was called from refreshments to
labor and a reception of grand officers
took place. Among those who were
greeted were: llarrv J. Stannard of
White River Junction, grand high priest;
fJeorge X. Tilden of Bnrre, grand king;
Hostile . Operations in Can-
' ada Said to Be Hatched
in Boston
Boston, Feb. 9. The federal authori
ties were engaged to-day with reports Charles F. Partridge of Woodstock, grand
that Boston is being used by German chaplain; (Jeorgo 1. Whitnev, grand loc-
svmnathizers as a base for the direction turer, and Frank R. Pitkin of Montpclier,
,.t i.:i i r., r J district deputy,
. ... . ' Granite chapter was selected to excin
or this character have been current for r)ify thn r0VRj aron doRre(, and the work
a long time but have lacked official eon- was reviewed by Grand Lecturer Whit-
firmation. To-day for the first time it 7 Several of the grand lodge officers
..... ... ' I urwiL'.t in eomnlimenf tirir fprma nn ftlA PT
.1 n rv. ..... .1 1. . 1. n .lnw f I . - - ... - j - ' ' - - '
- i empiiiicunon ana reierreo aiso 10 ouicr
phases of a most profitable convocation
BARRE BUSINESS TRANSFER.
Miss M. L. Walker Sells Store to Ira N.
Houston and Loren J. Bell.
Announcement was made to-day of the
the national government that typewrit
ten copies are being made of dictagraph
records alleged to have been obtained at
a meeting place of men under suspicion
George W. Anderson, United States
district attorney for Massachusetts,
went to Washington on Mikndav. Yes-
. . . 7..... .r . ' . ..
teruay J'.flmund wni.ngs, collector ot the transfer of the jewelrv business of Miss
port of Boston, followed. Their local Uf T. Walker 111 North Main street
offices would not dirjlose the nature of lin ir v iiYit,1n ml lren J.
their missions. Hoi! lm will Mtahlish their mm rters in
the Hale building Saturday. With her
TKIPFR TNTlTnTKTl business partner, Miss W. E. Rowel I
I .miss ..vtaiKer plans 10 leave in me near
FflR MATinCIIlF. future for Portland, Me., where the tw
are ro own a jeweirv anil an gooos niore
Tliev Kqva twaen in llnvi-o xevernt vnnrs
t a . l . vv . n.. i .... i .r , t. . t . .. . . .
i luc and have enjoyed material success in
Murder of Mrs. Aenes M. Teioer their undertaking,
l air. Houston nas necn engagea unii
vu jou. ju. recently a a jeweler in Waterburv, al
11 , . C 1 t 1 ..
Buffalo, X. V., Feb. O.-An indictment "'""" "e wa" ,"r''r'y r . , un..,er o,
eWrin -lot.- VrtrH T.iner with connecxea WH.i a local jewelry
,.... ...... ITJ ,:. .rt ..1 Whw.
. . . , " ... liii-lau- Afr Hell, in u'i.H Itrmueti in llsrre
inrv fn.itav oinpr is eharoeri u'irh - " ' -
1... - .... ,. ....... . -..... p,. 1 ,).. . , . -ii j 1 ,..:.,
slaviiur hia mother. Mrs. Airnes M. Tei- r" "cciii win leiain .u
KILLED WIFE .
SAYS A JURY
Oscar R. Russ of Roxbury,
Mass.. Found Guilty
of rne
HE HAD AIMED
HE SUICIDED
Jury Dfeiijerated in Case for
23 Hours Verdict Re
turned To-day v
per, who with his brother, Frederick Tei-
per, was killed on the Orchard park
highway on Jan. 30.
GET READY FOR SELF-INSURANCE.
tion with H. V. Cutler & Co. at the Pal
ace garage. In making its bow- to the
buying public the firm of Houston & Hell
announces its purpose to carry an up-to
date line of jewelry sundries along with
other commodities that are usually han
dled in a jewelrv store. There will be a
Barre Granite Manufacturers Expect To watch repairing department in charge of
Get a Charter. Mr. Houston,
I Throncl! The Timps Afifcs WnlL-er and
l i 41.- .n:.. c tj.. - ri . n I ... o
wib umicc "" nip rain ibi limn- ( a Roue 1 i i in thank t in rinh e for
ufacturers' association this morniiiL' a if. -,. ntronare in the oast, and
communication was received from State tm, formpr in transferring what remains
xurnMK n"n of her stock to the new firm, bespeaks
wie insurance commission m Vermont fa. vr.... Ihntm .nJ M n,.nn.
able share of the support which the pub
lie accorded her.
will render a decision this week on the
petition of the association for the priv
ilege of organizing a co-operative insur
ing company. There seems to be little u-mvicvrvn r.c am rTTDirr
Ul'UUl. IH1 tut- IdJUWb n III tlr. Jllliilit 'l
i i . r . i . . . . : . . . i . .
uiiiciHis oi i ne association hiuhi iu- j c . t, .i.. -. n.i k ah t.
ilur Tliar 1 ha rmwinl nf a olmrrep H ill luft I J
followed immediately by the orani:a- c"1 Alcohol.
ticn of the company. In anticipation of Brattleboro, Feb. 9. Judge F. E. Bar
me commissions uccision, a. nuiiii.er oi ter took under consideration . alter a
manufacturers, it is said, have already lone hearinc vesterdav afternoon, the
cancelled their policies with privet hre case of State aeainst Kinedio Pclleirrino.
insuring companies and other. mnnutac- charged with keeping with intent to sell
Hirers, memoers ot tne arre association, and furnish intoxicating lupior. Pelh
are ready to cancel as soon as the char- grino was arrested .lan. 24, after ped
ter is granted. dling extracts labelled "whiskev" and
Since Jan. fl, when members ot the with other names of intoxieatini; bever
tate commission, Mr. Bailey and State aces, which he claimed would permit
ireasurer waiter t. wott or ifraniton. the possessor to "make ii is own wins
i . j i : .... a i. I. ..
conuucieu a iirarmg on inp pennon, kev.
plans for orgamzjition have been going Dr. r F. Whitnev of the state laliora
steadily forward until this week and the torv testified that the nercentatre of
moment the expected decision is received cmmon alcohol in them now ranged
most ot tne plans win ne ready to put in from 5,411 in one sample to 5fl.4S in an-
opcration. A preliminary movement for other. The defense sought to show that
the arganization of a mutual company
bad its inception, the manufacturers say,
in a desire for emancipation from what
are described as excessively high rates
fixed by the private companies.
300 SINGERS WANTED
By Director Coffin to Do Justice to Chor
al Numbers.
KURN HATTIN HOMES
PREVENTIVE MEDICINE.
Will Be Develeped By Vermont Medical
College, Says Beaton.
Boston, Feb. 9 The poibditie of
preventie medicine hae developed so
greatly that tne medical school of the
Proposed Change of Policy Was Dis
cussed at Annual Meeting.
Bellows Kails. Feb. it. The annual
meeting of the New England Kurn Hat-
tin homes was held here vcterday aft
ernoon. K. K Walker of Bellows Falls
was je-elocted treasurer of the corpora
tion and Rev. K. A. Maron of Bellows
Falls was elected enecutive secretary.
These trustees were re elected for three
years: Rev. Clifford H. Smith of Bur
lington. Rev. George S. Chapin of Sax
tons River. K. I Walker of Rcllowi
Fall". U C. Richardson of Springfield and
Reilfield Proctor of lYnctor. 1 he ques
tion of enlarging the m-ope of the homes
so that girls may he admitted to the
Warner homes at Saxtons River and to
have bovs exclusit.-lv at the Kurn Hat-
tin bame at Westminster was not de
termined but was discussed. Rev. C. S.
Chapin was instructed to put the plan
in writing so that the question may be
put brfore th. pultlie which supports the
homes so generously.
The regular rehearsal of the Montpc
lier Choral societv last evening was de-
for arfult readers. In the former room I voted to the general study of the three
they were flavoring extracts and con
tained no greater percentage of alcohol
than other extracts which the law per
mitted to be sold.
Boston, Feb. f. Oscar R. Russ, a paint
er, was convicted to-day of second degre
murder for killing his wife in Ro.vburjr
last August. The jury deliberated o
the case for 2;i hourr. Russ claimed
that the woman committed suicide b
cutting her throat.
It'was Russ who reported the death ol
his wife to the police." Returning from
work on, the evening of Aug. 23 lie said
that he found her dead in the parlor.
Her throat had la-en cut' with a razor,
and two cords were fastened around her
neck. Russ said that he had to enter
his home bv a window.
He was held on suspicion for the mtir-
ler and then formally elianred with it.
Ha offered an alibi, and, in addition, the
defense set up the theory of suicidu and
the possibility that the wife's death
might and could have been caused by
other persons. Testimony regarding a.
man who bad been jilted and a vendor
who had tried to make love to her and
kiss her was introduced by the defence,
who asserted that either of these men
might have killed her.
The defense further claimed that Rush
had been "framed"' by the police of the
Koxbury irossing station. All of the
evidence against Russ was circumstantial.
Hist. Atty. Pelleticr ridiculed the
"frame-up" assertions and declared that
many big murder cases had been based
solely on circumstantial evidence. Wen- '
dell P. Murray represented the dc.fend-
nt.
PLAINTIFFS WON CASE.
Persons & Berg Sued George W. Mann
on Automobile Deal.
are the stacks containing children 8
books and in the room for adults are the
stacks containing reference hooks.
The stack room is furnished with steel
stacks from the Library Bureau Co. The
main flwr is finished in cypress. The
First street entrance leads" into a hall
with winding stairs to the second story,
which is an assembly hall for the use of
the King's Daughters. It also contains a
kitchen with conveniences for suppers
and entertainments.
The building is heated throughout by
a hot water system and lighted by the
indirect lighting system. The beating
system was installed by Irwin A Hall
and the electrical work was done by
Swanton village.
The complete cost of the buildinz will
be $fl..-)0O.
By
Muck Interest ia the Clinic.
St. .1hnhury. Feh. !. The regular
monthlr meetinir of the Caledonia oiin-
ll niversitT of Vermont i planning its
eHire with this idea almost etitirelv'ty Medical citi"t wa held at the
viewed the remains and pmnmiayH j ia mmd. a.-rording to President Benton : nurws home nf FrgMIk fcopHl
'eth due to suicide. Evident lr the man of the nnirerity. who adjneed thelterday. Ir. V. H. Hvher of Hurling-
tre.l tt nrfal bis identitv. Lahils on jartnual meetirg of tl.e e Fnlan i ' ton conducted a clinic on di- f the.ed
II his fl-Hhing bad been
t Hem were letters or
loota bearirg arty name.
HATTERS ARE HAPPY.
Because Their Homes Were Saved
Union Contributions.
Hart foid. Conn., Feb. O. Accumulate,!
interest of f.Hl.lai on the attached sav
ings bank deposits of the IMl defend
ants in the famous ianmirv hatters
boycott litigation belongs to the defend
ants, according to a dcciin yesterday
by .fudge F. N. Thomas of the Cnited
Mates district court. The plaintiffs, D.
Y.. Ijoewe and company, had claimed
they were entitled to all the interest
that bad accrued since the attachments
were made 1.1 Tears ago.
This sum, it is said in union circles
here, will practically complete the
amount needed to Mir the batters
ti'inir from being amti.-n.il off t-i satis
fy tlv judgment of i"iJ..Trt awarded
le and rornpany by the Cnited
Mates supreme court.
Orrnif-d lalior throughout the I nif-
tate recentlv imd.-rCok t rai
horal numbers already selected. A
marked increase in the male section was
apparent, as well as a large number of
new members,
Mr. Coflin spoke of the desirability of
maintaining a chorus of 300 members in
order to do full justice to the choral
numbers. He referred to the fact that
his Keene chorus had been increased from
lftl) to 280 members due to Pres. Hol
brook f that society being impressed
with the results shown by the Montpc
lier chorus of 225 members upon a pre
vious visit here during the festival.
There will lie no difficulty in bringing
this chorus to 3"0 members," said Mr.
Coffin, "if every member here will inter- J
ct one new inemlier. The music is the
most singable of any that we have ever
had and we want the men and ladies
(both young and old) of Barre and Mont
pelier wlio are interested in music to be
with us. It will be invaluable training
for them. I don't want an all-star cho
rus; all I ask is that those who come
here shall He interested and willing to
try. I will be respoiiMble for results.
Montpclier can have a chorus of .Too
memhers if everyone will do their part."
TWO PUT utoDER BAIL.
Are Charged with Breaking and Enter
ing a House at New Haven.
Middlebury, Feb. 0.--Deputy Shcriir
Edward J. Higgins arrested Isabella Kl-
drado and Knripiez Eldrado on a war
rant issued by State's Attorney Allan
B. Sturtevant late Monday afternoon
charging them with breaking and enter
ing the house of Burt Counter in the
town of Xew Haven, from which it was
claimed thev took a suit of clothes, over-
At 9:30 o'clock last night the jury in
the Barre city court case of Persons &
Ilerg vs. George W. Mann, an action al
leging a breach of contract, returned a
verdict for the plaintiffs to recover dam
ages of $I19.2T and costs, the decision
having been reached after three hours of
deliberation. The final report of the
foreman marked the close of a case that
was started in the afternoon at 1 o'clock.
I. Ward Carver, representing R. A. Hoar
by proxy, and K. R. Davis appeared for
the defendant and K. L. Si-ott and (). B.
Carpenter represented the plaintiffs.
rive witnesses testified for the plaint ins
nd three witnesses were put on t tie
stand bv the defendant's counsel.
It is intimated that the defendant,
Mann, will ask bis attorneys to carry
the case to supreme court on exceptions.
The case grew out of the sale of a Stall-
lev steam automobile of the mountain
wagon tvpe made bv the defendant to
the plaintiffs in the late summer of 1014.
he plaintiffs, at the trial, produced a
guarantee made by the defendant m
ich he promised to restore anv detec-
ive parts of the machine or to furnish
new car if the steamer was not as he
claimed. The defendants alleged that
the faulty operation of a burner made it
necessary for the defendant's factory
representative to take the car to Boston,
thereby depriving the plaintiffs of its use
for 14 days in August and Septembci,
1914. Attorneys for Mann contended
that the defendant had lived up to the
intent of the guarantee.
W. L. Persons and John Berg, the
plaintiffs, were the first to testify. A.
(J. Nelson told of consulting with Mr.
Mann in behalf of the plaintiffs and K.
R. Din is, counsel for Mann, was asked to
testify as to an agreement made in his
office by the litigating parties. Mrs.
Harry Thompson, who rode from Barre
to Woodbury in the Stanley stage one
coat and a signet ring. l lie clotnes dav, corroborated the plaintiffs' stories
were found in their possession, but the? of 'trouble with the burner. Much of the
ring was missing, vesterday tlicy were testimony was concerned with the trips
taken before Judge Donoway in muni-1 w,jrn ti
cipal court.
i.. ..,.1 (I,,. ,f I .
Each pleaded guilty and;nia,lp ovpr tli Hard wick and Woodb-.i.-v
thev were bound over to the June term
of the Addison county court, bail being
fixed at S1..VK! in each case. 1 hey were
unable to secure hail.
MANY ATTENDED FUNERAL
CASE WIPED OFF DOCKET.
L. N. Kellogg vs. C. N. Baldwin Was to
Be Heard in Supreme Court.
In supreme court this forenoon the
Addion county ease, I. X. Kellogg vs.
C. X. Baldwin. apt general assumpsit,
was entered as settled and discontinued.
It had previously been set for bearing
at this term. The Windham eountv
Of James McKernan, Sr., Held Yesterday
Afternoon.
The funeral of James McKernan. sr.. a
Barre granite manufacturer, whose
death occurred at his home, Maple
avenue, Sunday afternoon, was held at
the bouse Tuesday afternoon at 2 o'clock.
Rev. Edgar Crosland, pastor of the First !aij to bo an improvement.
lVeshytenan church, orfieiating. 1 tie
bearers were: Warren dimming and
Alexander F. Ross, representing Granite
lodge. No. 3.i. F. and A. M, William
Murrav and James Mitchell, delegates
from Rarre aerie of Fugles. John Mercer
and Alexander Marshall. The Masonic
services were used at the bouse, and rep
resentations from ldh the F.agles and
the Masons escorted the remains to llo.c
eemcterv. where interment was made In
the family lot.
The floral tributes were a follows;
Pillow, wife and family; ron and ferns.
Mr. and Mr. John McKernan: cams
eae. Sumner F.llingwood vs. Armn t.
Fllinwood, et al. was continued, also ! tions and bya int h. Mrs. Christina Kn
Arthur F. Iitkin vs. John Mun-ill. W. ! m ami family : carnations. Mr. and Mrs.
W. Munsill. guardian. Windsor county. J James Mitchell; carnation, and ferns.
Argument were made to day in the Mrs. I omolli. Mr. Na.i. Mr. and Mrs.
,-ae of Andrew' F. Hill vs. R.
eiit of and j Alumni a-w iation here Ut aigM. I il eart. Iting. stomach and kt Inn . 1 Ii, re l be entire sum by utWription. but it Jet 1. 'Means county. It is
pirs in the 1 1. Jo!.ron of Beverly a,le,.-d pr.n-i a large attendsnt-e frm fie !.rth-li said that the am-nrt was atvwitlthat (aledonia county cases
jd'-nt of the 'Kiatii-B. MtiTti se.tcB ef ti state. Wj) thwU reacLed lU Uif.
Riteloe.i l'et-r Park. jr Mr, t oh Mr. ait(
expeete.1 1 Fanrrgelier. Mr. Rows. Mr. and Mr
will be'F. A. Adam and Mr. ami Mr. F- J.
stage route. Versions were furnished of
tires which were alleged to have broken
out in the car while en route.
For the defendant the first witness
wa.' S. C. Mu.zey of Botn, a mechanic
in the employ of the Stanley company
who told of making a trip in the car. of
conferring with representatives of the
plaintiffs, and of taking the ear to Bos
ton for burner repairs. Sections of the
burner apparatus were introduced us ex
hibit in the bearing. A good deal of
Mr. Miiz.ev'a testimony invohed a treh
nicil description of the 1!I4 Stanley
burner as compared with the l!'l.i burner.
Flie delend-
ant. Mann, was the last witnesa and Ins
story of the deal tended to sulmtiMit .iate
the laini of bis attorneys that lie abid
ed by tlie spirit of the agreement Mr.
Mar.n gave an intimate history the
niouutani wagon tranai tiou and coirol
oratifl the statement made earlier ii
the trial that payment on the v. en
not made by the plaintiffs in .murium-"
with the tir-t agreement.
linking arg'ipii'nt were ,n .' t " i."i
o'clisk and a half hour after. n I. niter
the charge by Judge H. W. Scott, t !
e went to the iurv. The i'r.-o. re
turned on two oii-asmns fcr ie-i nn mm
antl an inteTmiin wa grunted if
ot''i'r oeiasion for snper. .
The jury i trsd- up .. - -.el,..-:
11. C. I .add. W. F. !r.r.!. n. i . i
.rKk. i;. II Par. II. H"t. Ce..r.M-
o.nJ, D. J. M re. ..g, !..
I.. . lie. k. . K. H-.il. -ter. liar
tf..n and 1.'. I.. War i.
let
