-4U
VOLUME XXXI. LAUIRENS, SOUTH CAROLINA, WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 9,1916NMB3 2
TH[ BIG f[ATR[S
B[FOR[ A88MBLY
Prohibition, State Ware
house System and Politics
BODY WILL ADJOURN
ABOUT FEBRUARY 19
Board of Charities and Corrections
Will Pass Upon ('minms for Free Tui.
tion. ('ompromise in Free Tultion
Fight.
Columbia. February 5.-Trhe thre
distinguishing features of the pres
ent session of the General Assembly
are: First, prohibition; seond, the
warehouse system and third, politics.
These three phases overshadow every
thing else.
Whatever the prohibitionists want
they get, and as was said in this cor
respondence at the very opening of the
session, the proposition was to give
prohibition a complete and absolute
try-out, and there was absolutely
nothing that could impair, interfere
with or retard the progress of prohibi
tion legislation at this time.? Yester
(lay the House passed an aiendiment
to the prohibition bill authorizing the
Governor to Borrow $50,000 for the en
forcement of prohibition. If this, as
a straight proposition of making a di
rect appropriation had come up, the
chances are that the $50,000 fund would
not have been voted, and some of the
prohibition leaders had about come to
the conclusion that they would com
promise on a smaller amount, but the
Wagnon suggestion of a borrow and
placing the burden of making the ap
propriation on the next Legislature is
very much like the individual who has
little hesitation in borrow when the
payment is some time off.
The $50,000 fund will be sustained in
the Senate-of that there is practically
no doubt. This, therefore, will make
the sum tota of the prohibition legis
lation, first, a law by which offenders
against the prohibitionstatute, if con;
victed, must serve on the chain gang
with no alternative. Second, the Gov
ernor will have $50,000 with which to
enforce prohibition in his own way
and through such means as he decides
upon, and ifi he does not, the burden is
on him more so than any one else.
Third, the effort to sell the remain
ing stocks in the dispensary counties
in this F-tale as (om pletely "squashed"
andthe programme now seems to he
to allow the old county boards to ship
the liquor outside of the State and sell
to the best advantage.
The warehouse system seems to oc
cupy a very anomalous position. \lem
hers openly and frankly say that they
are afraid of it, and yet feel that they
have to vote for it and anything that
is asked for to further the system.
Members frankly say they (10 not be
lieve the system will ultimately work
out, but. that their people have faith
in it and~ believe that it will raise the
hprice d1rvtton, anid tha t thle re is nothI
ing else or, hem to dho but to vote
for it. There is nio dlisguisinig the fact
hat the one thing that can claim the
strongest supiport in the General As
seimbly, both from its friends anad its
opponents, Is the cottoni wvarehouse
system. This is going to be given
just about a- bIg sa swing as prohibi
tion, andl if it fails it will not he be
cause of the lack of support, because
the statement has beeni repeatedly
made on the floor that everything that
the warehouse commissioner asked for
b~y way of financial supp~ort has been
granted.
Why Is it said that polities is fig
uring so largely? Simply because
there is a primary next year, and rec
ords have to be made and considered.
Just take this, for instance: A mem
ber of the House in talking about thie
two-cent rate bill, sta'ted he did not
believe that the railroads could give
the service that was expected of them
on a two-cent rate, but if next summer
in the campaign he had an audience
of a thousand peCople, and someone
out in the crowd holloaed at him,
"Oh, yes, you are the follow fiat voted
against the two-cent rate bill," that
would be hits finish; at least that is
what lie thought, and the trouble was,
as he exp~ressed it, he wohild not have
time in a campaign speech to defend a
vote of this kind. Hie simply tkought
that ho would not be able to overcome
some hoodlum crying out at him "Oh,
yes, you are the fellow that voted
against the two cent rate bill." Unfor
TEACHERS MET SATURDAY.
Interesting Program Carried Out and
Encouraging Reports Made as to
Progress Along I)inerent Lines.
Fourteen night schools have been
opene1d in the county since January 1,
reported Superintendent of Education
James 11. Sullivan, before the county
teachers' association Saturday. (;rat
ifying results have been accomplish
ed and still further expansion of the
idea is expected. The teachers who
have undertaken the work are very en
thusiastic over it and get much satis
faction out of the good that is done.
The teachers met in the graded
school auditorium, about 7.5 members
being present. Teaching of mathemat
ics was the the topic of the day and the
discussions were lead by Messrs R. T.
Wilson, J. M. Fewell and Miss Ella
lRoland.
Discussion of the annual county
school fair was animated. The fair
is to be held on April 1-th and it ap
pears that the teachers were determ
ined to make it a great success.
No meeting will be held in March be
cause of the meeting of the State
Teachers association in Columbia
March 17-19.
tunately, there is an awful lot of this
psychology in the primary system, and
is is in , this sort of thing that keeps
the best men in the State from run
ning for the many offices.
This is not a year for commissions
and the General Assembly is not going
to create any additional commission.
Last year two commissions were
created, and many of the members
were somewhat afraid of what was
then done. It is this condition that
had a great deal to do with the re
fusal to establish a State highway
commission, and the next time it is
tried, it had better be called some
thing else, and the personnel of the
commission will have to be changed
to some extent.
There is another bill on the :cub
ject pending, and an effort is going to
be made to do something towards a
State board. Out of the discusilon
there has followed a series of bills, all
of which are being passed by the
House, authorizing and permitting va
rious counties to charge a license on
automobiles which fund is to be used
in the counties for road work. Sn'
of these dlays the county system will
be linked up to a State system. The
tax commission situation has been
practically agreed upon in a bill that
is pending before the Senate, whlit
provides for, a reviewing board, w hich
was contemplated in the orl:inal Act
and which was agreed to by boilt
branches, but which In Soitne1 mystcrl
ots way was omitted from the (dioe
ment. when it was enrolled. In addI
tion to the reviewing boards, county
board of assessors are to be provided
for, the original assessment to be
made by the county boards with the
State tax commission to act as a re
viewing board and make suggestions
as to methods.
Thle free scholarship igh t w ill er en
Su at e In legislat Ion by wich1 lhe
board of' chari ties a nd corirec tionis
w'ill paiss upon the clainis made by
parents and~ :guaredians for free litition.
The state inastitut Ions realize they ar'
uniaible to pay the $.10 tuition tee, but
hey have been unable to (10 anythi ing
simply because they have observed
the lawv tax. There is no object ion on
the part of thle State inst itutiioits to thle
tighttening tiip of the law and~ this is
betng done,
The adjournmen of both branches
until Tuesday night, and the evident
slowing down has nullifled all Itros
pect of an adjournment by the 12th,
but the outlook now is that an ad
journment sine die will ho some time
during .the week ending February 19.
The appropriation bill will be in the
hands of the Senate when it returns
hero for its work, and this is regardedt
as the most important of the remain
ing legislation, Every one realizes
that many of the measures that were
introdlucedi will soon die on the Calen
dar. August Kohn.
Barber Shop Changes Ilanuis.
The barber shop locatedl in the base
ment of the E'nterprise flank building
has been sold by Mir. Bob Wham to
Mr. J. R. Baldwin. The new owner has
already taken charge, Mr. BaldwIn,
who has been in the barbershop busi
floss In Greenville for the past sIx
years, is a nativo of this county and
is considered an Oeellent and OK
nerienced barber.
SELLS O"TI' TO NEW FIRM
('ommtisson Has Heen Applied For and
New Concern Will 'lake (harge at
Once.
The Brook.; Ilardware Company has
sold its stock of goods to another local
concern which will be headed by
Messrs Fleming .Jones and .J. Arthur
Taylor. For the present the store is
closed while an inventory of the stock
is being taken preparatory to turning
the stock over to the new owners. who
will open at. once in the same Stand.
The new firm will be known as the
Jones-Taylor Hardware Co.
Both Messrs Jones and Taylor are
men of long experienec in the hard
ware business. Mr. Jones was for
years a member of the firm of Brooks
& Jones and during the time spent in
the hardware business he proved him
self a successful business man in ev
ery respect. Mr. Taylor has been with
the Brooks Hardware Co., since its or
ganization and before that he was with
Brooks & Jones. He has had a sue
cessful career in the business and is
regarded as an e.cellent hardware
man. The busines that they are tak
ing over has always been a successful
one and under the administration of
Mr. Charles Brooks the former prin
cipal st ockholder, has steadily grown.
Mr. Brooks will not he conn-eterd withli
any other business at present but will
devote his time to winding up the af
fairs of the old concern and to look
ing after his personal interests in the
city.
To Have Play.
"Jumbo Jim" is the title of a local
talent play which is to be given at
Riddles Old Field school Friday night
under the auspices of the school im
provement association. The play will
begin at 8 o'clock and the public is cor
dially invited to attend. A small ad
mission fee will be charged.
Miss Jureta Taylor.
Judge O. G. Thompson received a
telegram yesterday from the State
Hospital for the Insane, in Columbia,
giving notice of the death of Miss
.lureta Taylor, formerly of the Mt.
Olive section of this county. She was
about 75 .ears of age and had been a
patient there for :5 years.
('LiNTON DEFE-.tTS ,.L'ill-:Ns.
(Jirls Meet ii Hasket It hull at traded
School Friday and Saiturday,
Now, thlire's no use in d:tying it or
keeping it out of the ;,a s:, or "going
on" over the 1n1t1(er in any way what
soever, for they didl it, and did it up in
Tine style, too. They did! 'Those ('Tin
ton girls jest knew too imuith about the
gai10, and had m10oe practice, and
didn't. have the sun (not son) in their
eyes, and all their best players were
1 inches too tall and they, they, they
they--beat the 14aurens pirts in twVo
ganes, and that's about lte size of the
wh'lole I ting. 1(Of l o rse', too, Ithe Clini
ton girls all had11 pret ty silk red hiand
kerehief's, or someting iir other' of the
kind, tIed tip aroundl their helad andu
that wenCit ai long way. And, and(, ani -.
Now, Th'ie Advriei sot wrt1 Oi ~ iiteriIci is
not) bruaggiing on the Clinton girls r'ight
bore !ni i~:uroni, in oipen (eiigrt. hut lie
hats gotI to haindl it to themii. Tihey pinyed
the game like0 vet eranus, especially3 thle
two forwards Nellie iRiddlto and Nellie
11obo). And they won. Buit the Lau
rens girls played good basket blall too,
though they03 couldn't comnplete with the
Clinton gi'ls in that line as well as
they might had they pr'actic(ed mor'e.
The Laurens girls were game and
stuck to the boat till the last, but
couldn't win. Wait, though!
There were two games, one Fiday
afternoon and one Saturday morning.
floth of them were won by the Clin
ton "aggregation" by large scores,
about 34 to 8 and 36 to 12 or there
'ab~ounts, a matter of a few points won't
matter muichi.
Those who played for Clinton were
Lois Adair, Iva Adair, Irene Blalock'
Mary Sue WIlson (Sub), Nellie Riddle
and Nellie Hobo.
Those wvho played foi' Laurens were
Rebecca Lake, Virgil GIray, Sara
Bishop. Martha Franks, hIreno Wallace,
Lola Mechall, lBruce Diagwell, Mar
garet Dilal, Anna Sullivan, only five at
a time, however.
Trhe game wvas free from fights, argu
'ments or any other unpleasantness in
cIdent to games of the 'tother sex.
P. 8.--Pease 'put "Miss" in front of
those names,
NEIV SIHElRiFFl ASSUMES
DUTIES OF OFFICE
John 1). W. Watts note in Charuge of
Olil'e 3iade l'Vennt by Dteath of Late
John ). Owings.
''lhe cominmission of .1ohn 1). W.
Wafts, recently appointed sheriff to
fill Out the unexpired term of .lohns 1).
Owings, arrived last \We dneslay a ndt
he immediately assumled the duties of
the o1lice. Ile had already been in the
otlice se oral days familiarizing ini
;elf with its dities, so the Iratisfer f
authority was not attended by any
great degree of formality.
In reply to an invitation fromh Iiie
Advertiser reporter to issue a state
mlient, on his induction into oflice, Mir.
Watts stated that he wished to pub
licly express his thanks and acknowl
edge the obligations which he is under
to Coroner i airston and Mr. C. B. Ow
Ings for their assistance to him in his
efforts to become familiar with the de
tails of the office. These gentlemen, he
said, were polite and obliging in every
thing,
"Naturally," Mr. Watts continued,
"the people of the county are interest
ed in some of the facts leading up to
lly appointment to the otlice, espec
ially in view of a few criticisms that
have been made in some qtuarters. I
feel also that it is a duly that I owe
to the governor and to other county of
flcials to clear, uip some rumors that
have been afloat. In rega'd to a prior
arrangement. between the governor and
myself as to this appointment, I want
to deny any such implication. As a
matter of fact, I was a little shocked
to learn that the governor did not ev
en know wli'o I was when 11my applica
tion for the office was received. I had
previously thought that most every
body in the state knew who John D. W.
Watts was, having been connected with
the state fair for so many years."
"I wish further to state that, so far
as I know, none of the county ofilcials,
county delegation or prospective can
didates had anything to do with my
appointment. At least I did not ask
the aid of any of them, as I (lid not
feel willing to embarrass them by ring
ing them in on a contest of my own.
The governor questioned mie particu
larly on this point, asking about the
views of the delegation al the county
officers, but I told himt practically
what I have just stated.
"I was at home when the news of
the death of \ir. Owings was received.
That morning I received a telephone
call from a friend telling me to cei 31
to the city and make appliall tion for
the ouhl e, tha a plition had already
bee1 started in circulation. I did so
and t1h0, outcome of it all is Well
kown. To those who signed the pe
tition and to others who gave me Iheir
tupiiport I wish to express may deepest
thanks. I expect to do iy he:t to fill
the oflice acceptably, without feal r or
favoritism."
.l1r. IBoozer L~ose., ilarn.
Mr. I). 1. Boone", the wvell known
farI'r of Knrds,1 had the misfiIllie
to lose a barn andl stabbcs 133 fire 1)n
his Gary:, 1)1ace Ftfinday3 afternoon abouit
I o'('lo('k. A lot of hay3 and fodder, the
sides three'( mlowers. (3ne( 1)ay rake~i. a
iwo-horise lime spre'11deri and13 (other
smaillerI ariticles wier' lost, thle total1
loss1 beIng around $l5, withI inisuran11ce
oft abiou t $200t to ('cver. It is not Iknowni
lhow' the fIre orIginated. M\r. lloozer'
has the sympathy of 1his frIends In his
loss.
To'4 1liid Soon.
.\r. L,. H. Clar'dy, whio lost hIs housc
by fire Christmas (lay, t' '-ompleting
pilans for r'ebuilding at ani earlhy dlate.
Ahoe architeet has already compilletedl
plans and specifications and some of
the material has been ord(eredl. Con
struction will begin somo t~Ime in
Mar'ch. Mr. Clar'dy stated Monday
that the house8 wIll be of the bungalow
style of architecture, about a1 stor'y an1(
a half high. Mr. Thos. W. Cothr)an, of
Oreenwoodl, is the architect.
D). A. 11. Meeting.
The IHenry Laurens Chapter D. A,
ft. will hold Its next meetiig at. the
r'esldence of Mi's. WV. L. (lray, Friday
afternooni, Febtruary 11ltIh at 3:3
o'Clo(c k.
Mr's. WV. . Gray, Sec.
Oyster Supper at Dials.
There will be an oyster supper at
Dilals School on Friday night, the
eleventh of February, for the benefit of
the school, P~yerybody is invited.
IMiPR1O1 EMENT'% r ASSO(I AVION
Wl4)tIK.EltS TO MEET IIEIIIlE
II'teresenitativ's from tite .12 A ssoela.
lions in the County Exiiected Satur
da11y.
The annual meeting of the School
liIIprovement association workers wilII
ble h:d at the graded sclooi buiiilding
heeSaturday, when repr1eentative's
from the -12 local association.; in the
(lounty are expe(ted to he preseu. L1ast
year the ei n eg was a very (ithiulstis
tic one and [nth hneit and env'olr
age anent was the resuIt of it. The dif
ferent. associations raised a total of
over $2,5uIu last year and besides ex
erting a wonderful inluunce in the bet
tering of school Conditions an(1 meth
ods.
Th'lce association will be addressed by
Miss Elizabet h Dickson, iresidet'it of
the State School I mprovemlent associa
tion. Miss lickson is a charming
speaker, deeply iiterested in her work
and possesses an unusual faculty for
holding the attention of her audience.
Speaking of the meeting, Miss Wil
Lou Gray, county supervisor, said that
this ought to be the (fnest body of wo
men which has ever met In the coun
ty as each school dirtriet will doubt
less send its most re 'resentatiye wo
111e1 to the [meeting. 'T o delega(s
are expeel(d from each associaition.
The following program for the day
will lie Carried out:
11:00-11 : l5--OrganizatIon I Lan r's
(traded School auditorium)i.
11:15--12:00-Denonstration of a
mtly 3 School imp lrovettnent
Meeting.
12:00-12:30-Round Table Discussion:
"How can these methods be used
in our schools?"
12:30-1:30-Lunch. Guests of the
County Board of Education.
(Teachers' Rest Room in the
Court House).
1:30-2:00-Demonstration of a home
made tireless cooker.
'Demonstration In making oil
dressing.
2:00-2:45--Address: Miss E lizabeth
Dickson, President State School
Improvement Association.
2:-15-3:30--Social Meeting.
F1 F1 IS COMING.
Mutsitenl 'i'rl schoren ii Extraia ailinzat
to be Staged IHere. liteheittsals Al.
ready llegun.
.\lueh enthusiasmt miiarks the pro
g'es for the iIresentationi of "Pi l' i of
lie Toy .iip," wlii is to be given
in the graded scIhool auditorimil
'i'lursiday, l'ebrliuary 17th. lie diree
tor of the' tiusi(al trpischorean (x
trainganza, which has proven Fuch a
it in at hulndred other' cities from
.\i:ins' to C'aliforniia, is busily rehears
ing; the gr"oup's of participants1h anld all
(fI thim are eharmleid with the llodte
lonl.
As is already known to some, the
ilay will be given for the benefit of tin
graded school, the school receiviig a
Certain piercentage of tlie receiits. As
sisting in tlie produit Ion will be the l
(ity's lest Ia lint, overI 127 heing iln
the (astI. IThe tollowing ari the' lrin
(hpal liar ts:
"ionnie" .\ iss- .\tagaret 1 1al.
"i t l'i . ~\ls. .-: a iy W ion.
I.auiniii g I )iil"--.\liss .\largaret
WVright.
"Caplt. I Iarnacle"-.\M r. W. It. ltichey,
.lr.
"Prince Lolly Pop"'-Mr. Phil 1 luff.
"1laiuut. Tin1 1 Ieart" '--Mr. WVm. Mleng.
"T'aekhiammier-.\Mr. Fordl Franks.
New~ Jail Situation.
It is uinderstood that the bill providl
ing for a commissIon to erect a new
county jail or remnodlel the old one has
phassed the liouse of RepresentatIves
andl is no0w In the Senate. Its passage
through the Senate willl dlepend upon
Senator Goodwin, who Is understood
to 1be consideing the matteir serIously
has not yet reached a final decisIon.
lie Is reported as sayinug that lie
thought lie would kill It.
SAM McGOWAN HWlIE,
Spetnt last Monday In Laurtens Look
Itug After linss Affairs.
Mr. Stamuel McGowan, Paymaster
General of the Navy, came down from
WashIngton and spent Monday of this
week In the cIty to attend an Import
Iant meeting of the board of trustees of
Laurens Cemetery, of whIch board Mr.
McGowan ia chairman.
News Letters From Many
Sections.
CORRESPOM )ENTS
GIVE LOCAL NEWS
Illlpeningps of interes t to 11any1 Peoplo
All Ozer the Couity ind to Those
Who hame -left the F~anlly llhear~th
ston1e 31nd4 (one to Other States.
Poldtr Springs, Feb. 7. --''here will
be preaching at P'oplar Spring church
next Saturday and Fuday at the reg
ular hours. The day has been changed
from the third to the second Sunday.
Mr. and Mrs. N. E. Cooper of the Mt.
Olive section spent the day with i Mrs.
South yesterday.
Ir. .1. M. Ridgeway and family wero
visitors at Air. A. C. South's yesterday.
The Mlisses Addle, Mary, ('atheiino
and I'eatrice Siipson, Grace Simnions
anl Mhsain lugh's spent Friday night
with .\l-. and Mrs. \\. A. Simpson near
Illarinuony.
h'lle young folk:; had a party at .\lr.
.1. It. 'ilt:s' (Friday night and report a
tine tiie.
Mlilss Mlittle Wood gave a birthdlay
party Satuiday night which was great
ly enjoyed by allI present. Mllsses An
nie and Mary Abrains and Grace Sii
nlons spent the night with Miss \lit
tie.
Mi. II. S. Wallace was over to see his
daughter, Mrs. J. T. Pitts last Friday
and Alisses Minnie and iHarnie return
ed home with him.
Mr. John Vaughan and family visit
ed at Rev. A. O. Oopeland's yesterday.
Mrs. Ed Burgess is right sick but
we hope for her a speedy recovery.
Mrs. S. F. Walker has been on the
sick list. the past week but is some
better,
Mrs. Alta Wailker who we reported
in our last letter as being sick, is bet
ter. We trust they will soon be well.
.\laster Oscar Walker had a narrow
escape last Monday. A mule. kicked
himt just under the nose and ut though
Ilie lip. l)r:s. Donnan and \\orkman
s;(w(ed it uaP andli he is getling on all
right.
ir. John Fi'lupon ani Ianiiiy also
_ isitdl ,.t Ihov. .. O,'peland's y es
I erday.
Alis4s Ei:tie (;. P'itt: of line W\est
I ll . ld:t amd Sunday w01h home
folks.
\r. and \l s. Fito'ld (odfrev visited
Mr. (;odtfeyl graniiid:iot le', .\lrs. S
P . Walke 1;r yest orda~y.
ltidlle's O'd I"iceld. Feb. 7.- Our
Sunday school is imnproving nihely.
'There was a :'ingt-ing at .\lr. .1. S.
Todld's Sunday night, vlich was Cn
* .ioiel by all present.
'I he boys: andi g irls of th is connmuln
it y wenti bird striking 'humdaya ni ght
Weare t-htd toi reai llhat .\lustolr
i Miiui- (:ar1 itt who has hni Ve-y ill
is ilchl u ir (1d.
\hr. and AlIls. A\. 8. tdle s; nn Sin.
day with I their son3 andi danI~gui Air.
andl .\Irs. 8. E. I'iddle
Mr'. and Mrs. .1. 1i. W\illiamus .pent
Su1 nlay withi Mr.. an \~lrMs. ILee West.
Miss C'lara Williams spuent the week
('nd withI friends and relat i ves at Enio
ree. Wile there she visI ted her
frlinds, Misses Odessa and I lcster
I lembree near Cross Anchioir.
Miss Kather'ine 1lollls who has been
goIng to school at Cross Anchor is at
home with her p)arenits.
TIhere is to be a play at Riddles Old
Field on February 1lth for' the imf
lprovfeent of the school.
llun, Feb. 7.-Mr'. .John 1llall of
Tulmbhling Shoals was hurled at Riahun
Inst Monday..
Mir. and Mr's. T. F. ltabb visited Mr.
and Mr Is. Smiith J. Mai'tin Monday.
Mi's. Rebecca Owens visited Mr's.
Nancy Owens last Monday.
Mr's. Rlebecca Owens, Misses Edna
Owens, and Margie Illder splent last
Tihu rsday night with Mr. and Mrs.
John11 I lellanms of Shiioh section.
Miss Allilone Haldwin1 vIsited Miss
Mac Roper of hIclkory Tlaver'n section.
Tuesday night.
Miss MarIgie llder of (Greenpond
section visIted Miss Edna Owens last
week.
Mr. Hlaskelh Bolt and sister Mine
(Continued on Parn Four.)
