THE BENNIN GTON EVENING BANNEB
THIRTEENTH V EARNO 3703
BENNINGTON, VT., WEDNESDAY. FEBRUARY 9. 1916.
PRICE ONE CENT
The Woman Who Is Insulted by a. Man Usually Hangs out a Sign. Most People In This World Get Precisely What The Advertise For
RUSSIANS BEGIN
NEW ATTACK
IN MVM
-
Win in Assault on Austro HunS'
ian Infantry
GERMANS SHIFTING TROOPS
Withdraw Soms of Their Forces In
Russia for Service on Wsstsrn
Front.
Berlin, . Feb. 8, (by, Wireless to
Sayville, N. Y.)-rThe Russians , are
again on tbe aggressive in Galicia, ac
cording to today's statement by Aus
tro-Hungarian . Army Headquarters,
transmitted here. In one attack on
an Austro-llungariau . advance .infan
try position, northwest of Tarnopol the
Russians temporarily succeeded in
entering the point attacked, but were
shortly afterward ejected. - '
The position in question was tho
object of repeated Russian attacks, ac
cording to the statement, which adds
that, favored by clearer weather, the
II
FOR SALS
FOR ALE - "ay horse yewrsoM farler,
toufd md rue, weight 1010; will work
nywbe-esinleur double; ro- 1 nader i
top tnnyy. cutler ami Kut b ,rne8. R chiu-d
K. Dwjtr. No hennintftOQ, Vt. Ht.t
FOB homes. We Just Arrived
ni h Hi heal 10 pl-4 biys rons. iaclr.
browns ana frrayg. WOO to S-W, aitcs'5 ti i;
fit vera I olr8 H 50 to ?): sevar.il por inarot
la lend. 1 black mare 0 100. 1 buck norsi lOul.
it few slnide homos J.S.'O to l.l.yi. w can save
rou money If you want irocil htn'-tliy nics
liorBes. a wo buy d rt-ct iron farms heo
rI(?d. NOB'oknurl-et stiifl' e liuy ia 'urge?
ijuiiDtHHw than unv (ionli-r in Hi!i Btalo; have
li.O belli reads to ouiu now iu Toto. All (jo s
wrrut"d-uext load lu wco. Guilior.i k
Wood. Pr- p.Mul..urno inil. Mtsi.. Cf8
U OH g4LK-Thrie R. i K I. H d Cockerels
" trr ru good njk fitC0e li. Aautmoiaj
Tteg Ilutr.lu Incubator ioaood condition wortb
oo. JatrtiiK. Powers, No all JleunlniitoD,
Vermont. - - 8t6
' pOHSlLK Paim of fifi -ics. ai l ralr
4 from Arlinjitf u rft. alon :( a -r.-a In tuesdow,
' JU acres Id picture with trout h'rgitn. i ammo
tlmmr with flue nd whuo i-lr. k Hint wlila
most iy for frm; 9r otn lioi;se pninteM. luto
root. Hhiq!4 HO with I a emei.t. Burn iUxH
Huiar Ore iird. rnoumir water at -tarn, well
at ri ciirn at Hfjiisd o nrrwlll noluUe larji
machinery and tooli worth about $10) Price
H'liW, part cash. N'ash ii Hutcnln'. J)'f
FOR SALE-Smftll pla:e in "outh Sbaftebury
cousiatlo? of elirh room tiniisH In good
conditio -. M here if lard, more or li . qu r
titv small fruit aod out uuiidintB aad Korxl
well. Apply to C. P, BalmLDs, South HlmftE
bur, Stf
tl"OR 8 ALE Home nod fu'nl talrurs of 1 ho
UieJoiiuH. Evans. 913 Maiu Streer. Fri
day and satu osy, JCeb. tl-li. 2it
FOR SALE Three Stewart parlor
coal 6toves and two small bed-room
stoves as hotel is now heated by
steam. Apply O. L Lawrence, So.
Shaftsbury, Tel. 184-4.. 98tf.
TOR 8 1E -Sixoiws due to froslien son-i.
1 Aypiy c bailee L. Davis, fieunlugtun K. F.
D.i J , aitiit
FSR 8AIK White Wyandotte breedlnfr
nulcs. Klsbel sirln. Itoth cockettlnanu
year I u ?rloet$l.60iip. Alsoseveryl ftiaymp
nullpts W C. H. Cushman, Ho, iiounintou,
Vt. Phono 108 J. . .. .llf ,
POB ALK-t Two blckcoltione8 vexrsold
th otuu' 8 years old. Wull watched. A o
ly to 11.3. Ilunlngtou, Fowoui Ctntw. nel
1, .'.!,.. .. , . 86fW
1iOR BAIB-One 1015 Ford Touring' or
equipped with shook absorbers, at a low
price. Bouulngtou Garajfo. . W. Williams.
. , Hit
FORPAtE-J&on't pay rent; I!5.0Upor month
for UO years, wltb lntenet, amounts to
6,721 80 nuy slot and save this. I can sell
you a buildlDK lot on Main St.. Grant St.. Elm
St., Weeks Kt., LieveyBU, Putnam Rt., Wash
ington St., McKlnley St., Dunham Bt.. Everott
8U Convent Bt., Monument Ave., and several
new streets. Geo. H. Dewey, Agt. StJtf
WANTED,
WAITED "100,000 faet of White and
YelioW Dlreh Logs, fothinar W'Si thua
InohPS ia diameter. i.aglo Square M 'ft. Co.,
South Rhafubory, Vt. Tif
NOTICE Family mnvtnir out of to-n ha
paiu ltfri.00 ona$ini.ro U right PI no
You tay baianiio ani we do lver it to your
home. The lobs Piani Company. 7I-T8 Main
Street, Sprloglleld. Mats. bl Years One r,i ca
.tion. 07ul'.t
WAN'lED-Experienced ollar ou'tersby
large ooli f aoto v ia Xroy, N. Y. Ad
drars Cutters. Bnnaeruflioo. 118
WANTD-Arens. I' to 17 daily aellin
Kew Hbrc ilrooma; every wotnnn will
buy. BaopleuyPrfre l Post, 80 cents. Wynne
liroom Co., Elmlra, N. y. Mtiit
WAKTKD Mon to learn to drive and ro
pair automobiles and nn rrapured to
All vaonnolcs at wood snlaMes. Write f r spo
oal offer. Maine Auto Company, "70 Koro-tt
Ave., Poitlanu, Maine.
TAHTBD Pupil nurses at the Taunton
Btate Hospital Training; Sohool for Nur
aes Kor part.ioulars, address Or. Arthnr V
(loss, 8upU, Taunton Stato Hospital. Taunton
iVItf
LOST
X03T A turn o' mon"y In an envelope Sa.
J urday nlglit be w pen tbo c iar bliop and
8g Wtht Main Stroet. Ho turn i.ogx Wtst Main
rJtroot and leetive ft llborul reward. IiCt
artillery along the whole northeastern
or Russian front has been active.
Petrograd, Feb. 8. The lull which
extends over the whole Husslan front
with the exception of a recrudescence
of tin important artillery, aeroplane
and mining warfare on the Dvinsk
Riga line, and information of the re
cent transfer of large bodies of Ger
man troops to tl'e westward, are tak
en by the Russian authorities as an
indication that the Germans are con
tent for the present with holding their
V own in Bukowina ana the northern
Vfeion and are again preparing to ap
t. the greater part of their strength
on the western front.
MRS. WILLIAM A. MORSE
Died of Pneumonia at Home on Brad
ford Place Tuesday Morning.
Mrs. William A. Morse, aged 79
years, died of pneumonia at her home
on Bradford Place at 7.15 Tuesday
morning after a three-day confinement
to her bed. She was taken with grip
about a week ago which developed in
to the disease that caused her death,
Mrs. Morse was a native of East
Dorset and prior to her marriage in
this place in 1873 was Miss Eliza A
Jacobs. Beside her husband she is
survived by one son, George V.
Morse of Bennington and a brother,
Joifephus Jacobs of Windsor. She
had mado her home in this village for
the past 45 years and leaves a large
circle of friends saddened by her
death.
The funeral is to be held from the
house Thursday afternoon at 2 o'clock
and Rev. W. G. Towart of the Baptist
church will be the officiating pastor.
Interment will be,in the Morso lot in
the village cemetery. ,
SANFORD J. LEVIN CHRISTENED
Mr. and Mrs. Morris Levin Entertain
in Honor of Son's Birth.
One of the largest Hebrew gather
ings in the village since the Kohn
Levin wedding occurred at the home
of Mr. and Mrs. Morris Levin at 104
River street Sunday afternoon in hon
or of the recent birth of their first
son, Sanford Jay Levin. Nearly 40
relatives and friends were present at
the christening -which is made a not
able dnte by Jewish families.
Rabbi Fine of North Adams and
Rabbi Lasky of Troy were among the
guests and officiated at the christen
ing exercises; ,From Bennington, Mr.
and Mrs. M.-Margolin and family; Mf.
and Mrs. Joseph Levin and family;
Mr. and Mrs.; Nathan Levin and fam
ily; Mr .and Mrs. Meyor Kohn; Mr.
and Mrs. Abe Noveck and family; Mr.
and Mrs. Abe Satter; Nathan Satter;
Mr. and Mrs.; Julius Weiehman and
family ; . Mr. . and : .; Mrs.? n.-B. Cantor;
Isaac Ivevin; Mrs. I. ,; Farber. From
Troy; Mr eud:Mrs. S. Alfant and
daughters;, J. Serk; Mrs. Ester Cone
and daughter, Miss Selma Cone. From
Noith Adams, Mr. .and Mrs. Samuel
Shapiro, Mr .and Mrs. Barnard Katz-
mer; Mr. and Mrs. Abe Less; Abe
Hoevitch; Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Rud-
nick, Mrs. Fine. From Hoosick Falls,
Mr. and Mrs. H. Levin. Mr. and Mrs.
Arthur Levin, B. Shimllnsky. Among
the guests from other places were
Miss Levy of New York, Mrs. Morris
Rudnick of Williamstown, Mrs. Bessie
Levin of Manchester, and others.
The baby received presents and
goldpieces which totaled over $500
in value. Music was furnished for
the. occasion by Walter Kelly 'and
Miss. -Selma Cone and a course dinner
:was served the guests at 12 o'clock.
Big Poultry show in ' Boston-
Hearst- Vitagrahp News "Plptorinl,
opera house today. Adv.''-ir ' - " :
TO RENT
T0 T:wr-Up.stalrf! tenera'rjt nexttolie
Harts Theatre. Apply at box offlc. 0JH
ITf ANT!r Two mon capsbla or hanrtlirit
iniichino t. iolfl. Aduiv ut bfai-hlne Shcu.
Kflward L. Sibley Mfu. Co , Inc. tftf
TO RKNT- Two tiuiemuu son vaia at., one
with all modern lm nivdincnu. Annlv
Perry IJ. Gardntr, TU.m-U or4k5-M. It6
TO KENT Four room tnotmeQf. down
salrs. On McKlnley Sr.. Clmenve
ChnQdljr. 372-11. 95,tf
TO KENT "Carpentrr Hill Farm," loetted
ceir Pownal Oonwr. Vt. Horn letelv
stocked; (juenipe cows: one pa'r of liortt-t; nil
neccs-ar? machinery; ulo tlv equipped cieam
prv. For particulars Inquire of V. S. Pratt,
wnamngton, Ave., uonn ugum, vt. nut
TO RENT Klirbt toim bouse. Erquir
Praaa A. TbompE9u,lG6 Uuaob St. s;t2jr
TO KKNT Ftoren, offices tencmsn's. shops
stub (8. individual garage. Individual stor
age locker. Jurniobtd apr1 merits and rooms
nil centrally locit.d. Geo. M. Hawks 135 Maiu
St. 7itt
TO RENT Two houses on Silver Bt.. with
all modern Improvrmeuta. Apply to
Melissa II. Mason, St outb tit. 4ltf
Tfo RKNT - North side of tenement on North
Branca St., $S per raonih. Inquire Matto
Rlchart Patterson 14s Scott St. tf
WANTED
VrANTKD Middle oed woman for (rnera
,Y li .mctvorlc i.n a farm. Tw.i la fuailly.
Oocd wstfo.'. luqulra Uaunor oillje nr Tel.
211-W. Oltf
WANTRn Murrlod orslnvlo man to work
..n r....m .11.11 . fni n
. i. ill- -ui uinng miii.iiiii. .'
year. w. E.Pnlmtr,Mobr(sbiiry. Vt. OU
ANTBD-ltoomcra at 107 North jtjwt
FOR BENNINGTON COUNTY
D WEAOT AND
' BETTERMENT
This Department Edited by Secretary
Willard W. Bartlett of the County
Improvement Association
Gold Mines On Vermont Farms.
From time immemorial men have
dared anything, counting no effort too
great, even braving the unblazed trail
through perpetual snows into the very
heart of the Klondike, for gold.
Only a few of the many who strive
attain wealth. Thousands of lives
have been sacrificed fin this mad rush.
These sturdy, mighty men have
gone thousands of miles away from
Vermont in their quest, yet right
hero in the new Vermont are to ho
found .many opportunities for aecum
ulattng splendid . .golden fortunes,
without auy ot the . risk , to .'life . and
health,'., with , less strenuous . effort
than lias been usid by the gold, seek
er, and, in as quick a time aH the iniii-
er .could have done It, and host of all,
every, one who has the energy and per
feyeranqe displayed Yiy the fearless
miner is certain of splendid results.
There need ,be, no failure If one
adapts, himself to the new conditions,
studies tho new way and becomes
skilled in scientific methods.
Never in the history of Vermonters
was there such opportunities open
and calling to tho ambitious. With
her great variety of possibilities, un
developed resources and her nearness
to America's greatest markets and
seaports, there is no competitor that
is not seriously handicapped coin-
pared with Vermont producers.
Jt remains only for Vermont to
fully develop the intensive culture,
ftiaking her products of the quality
necessary for export to secure a
world market for her products. ,'
This is the ago of . intensive pro
Uuction., .To ,, Vermont intensive
means 'success in the fullest, nteus
uro.li Iti means producing two.; from
the 'same Unit that formerly produced
one; more, it means, the acme in
quality as against an Inferior product
in the past.
Jt is tho gospel of enerry intensified
by scientific action." Brains Plus.
,,Tlio intensive method cliangos a
struggle for an existence to a life of
prosperity; gives plenty in place of
want; joy, success, achievements, in
the. place of defeat, bitterness, failure.
The intensive system is not for the
few, but for the many; it Is not too
difficult of attainment, but easily
within the reach of every thinking,
reasoning man.
It is being applied to every trade
and profession but possibly means
more for large success to the tiller of
the soil tJmn any ather class.
The world reserves its best for
those whose very atmosphere Is inten
sive. Intensive success comes swift
ly to those who realize that help must
ccme from without as well as from
within.
The intensive demands hours of
deep thought, dreaming, studying as
"well as energy aud action.
To the alert student owning a farm
in Vermont we unhesitatingly . say,
"there surely is a gold. mine on your
farm", most valuable, absolutely cer
tain in. its output, and right at the
door of tho world's best markets. 1
- What the world wants. is something
a little hotter than others are giving,
the best that can bo attained, wants
it quick and is ready to pay well for
quality goods. . , .-, :, ; :' "
! 'Almost, every article , or animal
(Continued on Last Page)
COUNTY FARM BUREAU
Members Solicited for New
Association.
The new association of farmers re
cently formed to promote the material
and social welfare of Bennington
county people, invites the cooperation
of every farmer in the county. Mem
bership tickets may be procured from
H. H. Purely treasurer, Manchester, by
remitting jl.OO. Lets get together
and 6ecure all of the benefits of co
operation. James A.' Leach. President.
Bennington County Farm Bureau as
sociation. j Card of Thanks .
Wo wish to thank our friends and
neighbors who so kindly assisted us
during the Illness and death of our
husband and father and for the beau
tiful floral tributes and all other acts
of. kindness.
Mrs. Nellie McCormack'
and family.
WHEN LIVER IS TORPID
or slugtriHh nil Hie other vital orgnns
of your body are affected you ha'e
Htoinach and bowel troubles, your heud
aches, your skin loses its clearness,
and you have "the blues." Take Hood's
Pills, gentle and thorough. Do not
Irritate nor gripe. Price 2Cc., of all dwg
ulsu or C I. Hood Co, Lowell, Mass.
ALEXANDER JACKSON
Funeral of Life , Long Resident of
Pownal Yesterday Afternoon.
The funeral of Alexander Jackson
a life-lopg resident of Pownal, was
held from his late home near the
Jackson crossing yesterday afternoon
Hev. P. L. Dow, pjistor of the Benning
ton vietnoaisi wijurcn, oinclatea ana
the burial was in the Towslee ccme'
tery.
The deceased, who was 56 years old,
died Sunday at the North Adams hos
pital where ha was taken when found
to be afflicted with pneumonia. Ear
ing the larger portion of his active
life lie had been employed as a farm
hand by property owners in the vici
nity of his home. The surviving
members of the family are a mother,
90 years of age, aud three sisters, two
of whom live in Pownal, Mrs. A. F,
White and Mrs. It, S. Brown and one
in Springfield. Mass.. Mrs. A. C. Niles
-4- -
MRS. ANNE ROCHE i-
Died -at Home of, Her. Son on Jeffer-
,. son Avenue Triis Morning. w-
,Mra. Anne Roche, aged 73, died at
the home of her; ob Michael Rocha
on jenersou Avenua tins morning af
ter a fhort illness '.with grip and pneu
moiUa. Her . husband, William J.
Koche died Sept. 25th or last year. .
She was a native, of Ireland aod be
fore her marriage to Mr. Itoche In
Cambridge, N. Y..hn February, 18Q3,
was Miss Ann Mtirphy. She had re
sided in Bennington for the past' 36
years and is survived by five children;
Miss Julia Itoche and Michael Roche
of Bennington, CbRrles P. Roche of
Bridgeport, Mrs. Rose Kelly of Albany
and Sister Wllhelminia of the St.
Mary's school in Little Falls.
The funeral will be held from St.
Francis de Sales church on Friday
morning at 9 o'clock and the burial
will be beside her late husband in
Park !awn Cemetery.
MRS. SARAH MATHERS '
Widow f Late Solomon Mathers Died
This Forenoon. ,
Mrs. Sarah Sherman Mathers,
widow of the late Solomon Mathers,
died at her home on Main street this
forenoon, in her 77th year. She haq
been in falling health for some time
and was in no condition to rally from
an attack of grip with which she was
seized on Saturday'.
She was a native of Pownal, the
daughter of Joseph and Mary Sher
man, but had passed the larger por
tion of her life in Bennington. Her
husband died in August, 1912. .
The surviving members of the fam
ily are a brother, Solomon Sherman,
a sister, Mrs. John Davenport of
Brooklyn and five children, Edward
M. Mathers, Isaac Mather3 and Mrs.
Sarah Evans of Bennington. Charles
Mathers' of South Dakota and Mrs.
Alice Hollister of Troy;
MEMBERSHIP GROWING
New Additions to Roll of Forest, Fish
and Game Association.
Encout aging reports wer'e rceived
at the regular monthly meeting of tho
officers of the Bennington County
Forest. Fish and Game association
held Monday evening at the office of
the secretary, William If. Wills. Tho
membership has now reached a hun
dred ahd it is the purpose of the offi
cers to double tho number.
It wus voted to send ! a delegate
from the association to the winter
Jiieetiug of tho Vermont. Fish and
Guuh; clul) to bo held at Burlington
February 8, March 1 and. 2 and the
new president of the association, Nor
man K, C-reenslet, was chosen as the
delegate - '
PUT ON GOOD SHOW
Bob Ott Played To Full House at
Hartc's Theater Last Night.
The clever young comedian F.ob
Ott and company entertained a crowd
that filled Harte's theater again last
night with the second play of his
week's repertoire, "Yours Truly."
Mr. Ott put on a snappy, clean
show, noticeably free frcm the cheap
wit and slap-stick worki usually pre
valent in traveling musical comedies.
That Bennington people appreciate
such a show was evinced by the
packed house, and enthusiastic ap
plause which followed the featuros. .
The theme of the play was enter
taining and the manner in which it
was put on kept up he Interest. Some
excellent voices were evident in the
chorus and tho male quartette com
posed of Mr. Ott, Edw. Howell, Ralph
Bold and Carl Covey was worth the
price of admission.
This afternoon and evening the
company puts on "The Commodore"
which is an entires change of program
from, the two previous performances.
Tonight an added attraction will be' a
male and female Charlie-Chaplin con
test. Iocal amatuers will ' compete
for prizes in best Chaplin make-up
and impersonations.
Largest Meteorite.
The largutit meteorite stono actually
known to have fallen ,f vartU weighed
437 pouud3.
LOCAL SPORTSMEN
OPPOSE CHANGE
System Now in Use Has Accom
plished Results
IS GENERALLY UNDERSTOOD
If Statutes Are Remodeled Benefits
of Years of Education Will Be
Lest.
Bennington county sportsmen, who
believe that they obseire . the real
spirit and purpose of fish and game
protective laws as well as, if not bet
ter, than the hunters and fishermen
in any other iart of, the state, are vit
ally interested in tho . proposal to
change the legislation from the per
missive to tho prohibitive, form.
In their present form the fish and
game laws specifically state what la
allowable and the seasons are defined
as clearly as It has been possible to
fix these limits. At the' same time,
laws as they now stand have come to
be fairly well understood by all clas
ses of men who frequent the woods
and who follow the water courses of
tho state. Unless they can be con
vinced that some radical improvement
that will further the preservation of
fish and game is going to be accom
plished by the proposed change, it is
safe to state that Bennington county
sportsmen as a whole will be found
in favor of fetaining tho present
form.
The following argument presented
by one of the bert authorities on Ver
mont fish and game conditions gives
some of, the reasons for retaining tho
present prohibitive form of 'legisla
tion and points out gome of the , dan
gers that will be created by a change:
It is interestine to note that until
only a few years ago laws relating to
the subject of flah and game were uni
formly drafted" in the prohibitive
form. - .It was mane unlawful to take
a flah or an animal in certain periods
of the year and throughout the chap
ter it was a succession of "shalt not"
provisions. No human mind appear
ed to foresee all the things that might
be done in violation of the spirit, but
not the letter, of these statutes.
There was as much mental ingenuity
manifested by the violators as by the
makers of these statutes. Therefore,
it was comparatively easy for a bright
lawyer to find the necessary techni
cal loophole by means of which his
client escapes paying a penalty. Many
times it "was proven that the spirit of
the law had been broken, but in the
absence " of a specific prohibition
against an unlookcd for contingency
the violator escaned and upon the fish
aud'game department devolved the
expenso in warden service and other
expense. To plug up these loop holes
was tho duty assumed by succeeding
bodies of legislators. Tiie time thus
spent might have been otherwise em-
loyed and was sometimes a subject
of . criticism. This constant changing
of the laws by additions of further
prohibitive features led not, only to
(Increase in bulk but, in some cases,
lunexpected and disappointing con
flict in the laws. .1 , ; - ''.'
"Men who have made fish and game
legislation a constant study concluded
that belter results- might be obtained
ny making tho statutes permissive iu
form rather than prohibitive. For in
stance, instead of endeavoring to
stato tho many and varied ways in
which a certain animal or fish shall
not be taken, tho permissive form was
adopted which simply provides that
such certain animal or fish may be
taken between such and such dates
in the manner specified and in no
other way. Thus a man quickly and
readily ascertains what he may do
and that anything outside of this per
mission is a violation not only of the
spirit, but the letter ot the law. He
does not have to wade through a
more or less complicated catalogue of
things he must not do.
"It becomes so clear and plain that
any person ol! average intelligence
may readily comprehend it, and sim
plicity in a statute, that simplicity
which makes it easy of understand
ing, is highly desirable in a body po
litic that is supposed to be self gov
erning. The so-called ingenious law
breaker, "who frequently was able to
defy the law under the provisions of
prohibitive sections, discovered that
the new form was u. sort of stone wall
thoroughly plastered and solidified
and containing none of the old, famil
iar loop holes through which ho might
by the aid of his attorney eqneeze
through. Officials charged with en
forcement of the laws havo found this
form superior to its predecessor. Law
breakers do not llko it. . :
"States other than Vermont which
have adopted the new permissive
form of fish and game laws are New
York, New Hampshire, Missouri, Min
nesota, Louisiana and Colorado. Ver
mont adopted this form in 1912. For
a period previous to . 1912 the laws
were in more or less jumbled condi
tion due to amendments of various
kinds by different sessions of the leg
islature. It was considered desirable
to get them into better shape and as
a result a codification was completed.
A?l law relating to a given subject is
placed in one section or under one
heading. The convenience of an ar
rangment of this kind Is obvious,
Since 1912 some 200,000 copies of the
fish and game laws have been dlstrl
buted. Not less than 50,000 copies
will be distributed this year under
the plan which provides that every
applicant for a license shall receive a
copy of the laws, and " the additional
copies given out upon application
The expense cf a complete codifica
tion was considerable; it was quite
largely borne by organizations of
sportsmen and nature lovers, but it
has been a good Investment for the
state in that it has materially reduced
tho number of bills brought before the
legislature for consideration. The
prohibitive form afforded an ever
present opportunity for offering an
amendment tacking on still another
prohibition. As it stands todaypro
hibitive amendments are seldom re
quired, because everything Is pro
hibited except that , which is speci
fically permitted.
'There has been some discussion
relative to a change from the present
permissive to the old style prohibi
tive form on the plea that other chap
ters of the statutes are prohibitive.
Fish and game laws are protective
measures designed to conserve and
save wild life. Crimes against per
son and property are somewhat dif
ferent in character, and have their
origin In different impulses, although
perhaps fundamentally similar when
it is considered that the wild life of a
state belongs to the people in their
sovereign capacity. The enforcement
of fish a'.d game laws rests with cer
tain officers selected for that- speci
fic work. The successful prosecution
of violations is usually more difficult
than successful prosecution of viola
tions against persons and property,
for reasons apparent to persons famil
iar with the subject. Under the per
missive form successful prosecution
of violation of fish and game laws has
become much more general. ' ' '
"Very few appeals to higher courts
have been successful and not only tho
department of fisheries and game, but
the state as a whole, has been better
off financially because of clear, un
mistakable provisions of law: : There
is littlo advantage to a state when it
makes laws which provide a way for
the easy escape of violators. Escape
on a technicality, in a broader sense,
is perhaps the strongest factor in the
problem of the growing disrespect for
justice as administered by the courts.
This is attested by some of the cases
of national prominence, widely ex
ploited by sensational newspapers.
Tho too frequent remark that there is
one law for the poor and another for
the rich ought not to have any foun
dation in fact in Vermont An at
tempt to chango the present satisfac
tory form to the old and unsatisfac
tory form, means tho probable over
looking of important features and pro
visions, each and all the result , of
careful observation extending over
yeara.thei possible UEe of no incon
siderable amount of time by the legis
lature of 1917 and the education of
the public to the change and it us
ually takes more than one year for a
change in tho statute to become rea
sonably well understood.
; "'Sportsmen and all persons inter
ested in the conservation of wild life
may very consistently oppore a
change from the present satisfactory
form to a form known to be unsatis
factory involving expense .in 1917 aud
later on, omissions leading to weak
ness In the structure of certain
statutes which omissions become ap
parent only as experience in prosecu
tions reveals them, not due to lack of
care, but to the fact that the human
mind cannot foresee future develop
ments, not to mention the upset of a
whole system of procedure. When a
statute permits the taking of a bird,
an animal or a fish at a certain time,
in a certain way, but at no other time
and in no other way, the Intent and
letter of such a provision Is clear
and It can .be regarded as nothing
other than progressive, safe and sano
legislation as viewed from the stand
point ot the layman who is not con
cerned with historic and legal
niceties, but who is concerned in se
curing an effective statute that will
accomplish that for which it is de
signed. It is Interesting to note that
no state which has adopted the per
missive form has reverted to the pro
hibitive. Should Vermont do so, it la
felt by many Interested persons that
it would be taking a step backward. I
and Vermont during the past few
years has secured a reputation of be
ing one of the most progressive states
in the Union in respect to practical,
sound, efficient and reasonable laws
designed to afford that necessary
protection to wild life which is essen
tial to save it from extermination."
CONSULS IfJDICTEO
BY FEDERAL
Charged with Plotting Against
Neutrality ,:
TWO GERMANS AND ONE TURK
Alleged Conspiracy to Blow Up Tun
nels of Railroads Over Which Mu
nitlons Are Being Shipped.
Washington, Feb. . 0. Weeks of ii
vestlgation by agents T)t tho depart
ment of justic resulted yesterday la
the voting of indictments by a federal
grand jury in San Francisco against
prominent figures in what are consid
ered here to be two of the boldest
plots involving questions of American
neutrality that have been uncovered
since the European war began. Among
those against whom indictments were
voted are Franz Bopp, German consul-
general; Baron E. H. von Schack, vice
consul of Germany, and Maurice Hall,
the Turkish consul-general. ,'
Consular officers do not enjoy the
diplomatic immunities which embas
sadors, ministers and attaches are
given by international law, but are
subject to the jurisdiction of the coun
try iu which mey are resiueui aim
may bo treated by the law as are any
other persons. - ... , ; l;-
Bopp and Von Schack are charged
witn complicity in tne plot wntcn was
the arrest of C. C. Crowley, alleged
undertaken to cripple the American -;
output of munitions of 'war and : ia
other ways to help the cause of the
Teutonic allieR. Bopp Is ' accused, of
Deing tne neau or a conspiracy wnica
lipped -: to ' accomplish ' this end by in-
terferlng with trade in munitions and,
preventing railway 'shipments -by
blowing up two tunnels on Canadiaft
roads. - -r, v '.'.V.--
' The indictment of the Turkish con
sul-general was voted . In connection
-with tho r-riartorlncr nf ' thn . fitefunni
Sacramento to ; supply German, ships ;
of war. In the South Pacific which,
ended , in tho internment ol that -tea
sel by the Chilian government marly
months ago. , ' '!.'" i.",;
FOR JEWISH SUFFERERS J V
Th fhnrlr nt Frnrn RAnnlnntAn
Was $148.05. :
Editor of the Banner: The com
mittee on Relief of the Jewish War
Sufferers desires to express their
thanks to the Bennington Evening
Banner and its editor for the aid Klv-
en their cause and for the services so
cheerfully rendered, to H. Harry,
Sharpe, the cashier of the Bennington
County national bank for his services
as treasurer, iu mo dcuhiuijiuu vimi
House management for their kindly"
co-operation and above all to the putK4
lie for the kindness which ; causeit?
their contributions and 1 their attea-
dance at the benefit for the Jewish.,
sufferers, . . ..
, The financial report is as follows n' j
pleared at Opera House Benefit ?50J55 j
Subscriptions to H. Harry Sharpe,-
Treasurer, - J71.59"
Raised at a Bris ' Mila at Morris - Le4
vin'sr .; ?jg.oo.,
1 UlOl YAtw.ww .
Drafts for this amount have , been
forwarded to Harry . Fischel, Treas
urer of the Central Committee for the
Relief of the Jewish War. Sufferers' of
the World.
Julius U Welchman, Secretary.
WEATHER FORECAST
For eastern New York and western
Vermont, partly cloudy tonight.
Thursday colder.
K3E
'THE
nderbiltHotel
THIRTY FOURTH STREET
AT PARK AVENUE
NEW6liKj
The most
conveniently situated hotel
in New York
at .......
Atlht
Thtrtit-thlrJ Street Suluiig f
. WALTON H. MARSHALL i
. . Mnair
GRAND JURY
