TV V
Citizen.
The prophet who isn't known in his
own country can safely lay the blame
at the door of poor advertising Proof
A man doesn't know what is in him
until he tries and he hasn't tried
until he has advertised Scribe
ews an
6
4
VOL.. XX, T0. 19
HYDE PARK, VERMONT, WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 11)16.
$1.25 A YEAR
ii u
This blue X means .., . your
subscription expires w.th this
number and that no more
papers will be sent you unless
your subscription is renewed.
Renew at once so as to receive
next issue of caper.
Farmers when in town call at
CRANE'S
We carry Pork, Lard, White Cloud,
Crisco, Kat o, etc.
Emerson and Gladstone Flour
None better at any price.
COFFEE Crane's Special, Ellis'
Special, White House Coffee, Golden
Dome and Old Dutch.
SATURDAY SPECIALS
3 pound Prunes 25c
2 pounds Cream Candy 25c
Celery and Lettuce
Entire Wheat Bread
Drake's Cakes
. You Know the Right Man
You have known him for years. 0. K. THE
ORIGINAL. Cash paid for Junk. Hides, Furs,
. etc. No relatives or partners. Watch for 0. K.
Telephone or send postal.
OSCAR KAHN
Tel. 25-5 Lake Street, Morrisville, Vt
BUSINESS NOTICES.
For Sale. Vehicles and Implements for a
Milk Route. Mrs. L. W. Minor, Hyde Park.
Cash Paid. Highest Cash Price paid for
Calves, Cheap Cows, Bulls and Hogs.
Tel.124-31 John -Miner, Hydb Paek
Sleighs. I have a few of my Hand Made
sleighs lett and will make a very low price to cloae
them out. Cash or credit.
W. W. Talbert, East Hardwick, Vt.
I Valentines in large assortment at
both Drug Stores.
MORRISVILLE
Paid for this paper ? Last call.
Remember "The Japanese Girls" at the
Town Hall Friday and Saturday eves.
Fred Smith, the bustling Moscow mill
man, transacted business here to-dav.
A report of the financial condition of
Lamoille County is published on page 5.
Of course you observed those last Bas
ket Ball Posters? Well, "we" made 'em.
Willis P. Terrill spent Sunday with
Mrs. Terrill at East Swanton, where the
latter is visiting relatives.
Tonight at the G. A. R.'hall the W. R.
C. will give a whist party, to which all
are invited. Those in charge promise a
pleasant evening for all. Refreshments
will be served.
Miss May Seribner, who has been
working for Mrs. R. L. Barrows for sev
eral months, has been at her home on
Hyde Park Plains since Sunday.suffering
from a severe cold.
William iMtch, wno is employed in
Greensboro, has been at home the past
two weeks on account of the illness of
his mother, Mrs. C. W. Fitch, whose con
dition is improving.
A regular meeting of James M. Warner
Post W. R. C. will be held at their hall
next Monday evening. The evening will
be devoted to the observation of Lin
coln's birthday anniversary.
Mrs. Allen Bacon, who has passed
some time with Mr. Bacon's parents, Mr.
and Mrs O. D. Bacon, on Summer street,
returned to Newport last Saturday,
where Mr. Bacon has employment.
Rev. W. T. Best and Judge Morse at
tended a ministerial meeting at Water
bury Tuesday, at which the Judge read
an interesting and instructive paper on
"What the Church Expects of the Minister."
AT SALEEBY'S
After our regular Clearance Sale comes
our final Clearance Sale of all merchandise
which we wish to dispose of at any sacrifice,
rather than to carry over to another season.
All are made up into lots at certain prices.
For Women's Suits and Coats
About 70 Coats and Suits in this lot, including all sizes
and different colors, regular values from $10 to S25.
For Women's Suits, Coats, Dresses and Skirts
pr In this lot you will find garments worth up to $15, and
In all sizes.
$.90
For Men's and Young Men's Suits and Overcoats
You can have your pick from a lot of Men's and Young
Lien's" Suits and Overcoats, all sizes up to 44. Garments
in this lot worth up to $15.
You will find several other lots of smaller articles for
Men, Women and Children, and in order to close them out
quickly, we have priced them at a fraction of their real value.
Buy your Fur Goat now at tiie price we are offering our Coats
for and you will not be sorry.
A. J. SALEEBY
'THEISTORE THAT SAVES YOU MONEY."
JOHNSON, jt & VERMONT
John Stewart of Waterbury was a vis,
itor in tdfwn Sunday.
Bennie Chamberlain is able to be ou
after an attack of grip.
Mrs. W. S. Cheney was a visitor in
Burlington last Saturday.
Charles and Frank Draper were
East Fairfield over Sunday with thei
son and brother, Jay Draper.
The remains of Henry Muckler, a long
time resident of Morristown Plains,
were buried in Stowe yesterday.
Miss Minnie Bliss of Peoples Academy
has been confined to her home in the
south part of town the hast few days by
an attack of tonsilitls.
Mrs. Fannie Bickford and daughter,
Miss Marjorie, went Saturday to Bur
lington, remaining over Sunday with her
sister-in-law, Mrs. Stevens.
Urban Parker of Middlebury College
who passed several days with his par
ents, Mr. and Mrs. J. R. Parker, returned
to his school work Saturday.
Leon Terrill left Monday night for
Boston to put in a few days at the Em
erson cbool or f notograpny. He was
accompanied by Mrs. Terrill.
E. W. Potter of Woodstock, who came
here with the remains of his wife, went
Saturday to VVolcott to pas9 some time
with his brother-in-law, W. S. Sillowav,
Frank B. Morse, who is commander of
the G. A. R. Post at Wolcott, went Sat
urday to Wolcott to hold the regular
meeting, which was the McKinley meet
ing-.
Judge and Mrs. Ged. Powers and Miss
Elizabeth were in Burlington last Friday
and "took in" "The County Chairman,"
in which Horace Powers had a promi
nent part.
Jurors from this county drawn to do
duty at the Feb'y term of U. S. Court in
Burlington are C. A. Gile of Morrisville
Harlan Sbattuck of Eden, Geo. Foss of
Hyde Park and H. W. Varnum of Jeffer-
sonville.
The fire alarm was sounded at about
nine o'clock last night for a blaze in a
chimney in Everett Aller's house oi El
more street. It was reported '"all out,"
luckily before the fire company got the
engine out.
Mr. and Mrs. George Riel and ture
children returned to their home lnPlatts
burg, N. Y Saturday. Mrs. Reil and
children came several monthsago to visit
her parents, Mr. and Mrs. P. J. Liberty,
and a little son was taken ill of pneu
monia, when Mr. Reil was called. The
little sun is recovering satisfactorily.
The large number of Lamoille County
friends here were shocked to hear of the
critical condition the first of the week
of E. M. Davis of Hardwick, the result of
a shock of paralysis, suffered last Satur
day. He had been quite ill of grip pre
vious to this time, but bad been reported
as gaining. Late reports receivd by rel
atives here state that, while his left side
was paralyzed, his condition is more en
couraging and the physicians give hopes
of his ultimate recovery.
Mrs. W. M. Johnstone gave a small
party Monday afternoon from four until
seven o'clqck, to six little girls, in honor
of the sixth birthday annivcrsaty of their
danghter. Miss Harriet Ide. The time
was delightfully spent with games and a
dainty Valentine lunch was served in the
dining room. The place cards consisted
of heart-shaped valentines, attached to
strings, by means of which each little
guest pulled a doll from a doily in the
center of the table. A feature of the
lunch, much enjoyed by the guests was a
birthday cake, upon which were six
lighted caodles.
Plumley in Morrisville
The M. E. church was crowded last
Sunday evening, when Hon. Frank
Plumley of Northfield addressed a union
Brotherhood meeting. Mr. Plumley gave
an addresa upon "Man's Religious Ten
deneies." which was both eloquent and
scholarly.
In the course of his address the speaker
eraohazized the fact that from all the
years since the dawn of human history,
yea, from the mystic realm into which
only the yaguest of tradition reaches, we
receive Indisputable evidence of man's re
ligious tendencies. In his crudest state,
as well as in his most civilized, man in
stinctively reaches out toward some
higher power than himself. The customs
of the ancient Egyptians of embalming
their dead that the bodies might be
ready for the re-incarnation was sug
gested as a proof of their belief in immor
tality, which is a part of religion, which
correctly speaking is the reason for re
ligion. Our aborigional Indians believed
in the Great Spirit and worshipped Him.
They also believed in the Happy Hunt
ing Ground tor the soul s abode after
death.
Very forcibly and eloquently the speak
er pointed out the greater reasons for the
modern man's belief in God. We know
so mucn more about His handiwork
than did early man. Mr. Plumley held
his audience spellbound as he pictured
the immensity of the infinitely big the
stars, the planets the whirling suns and
the minuteness of the infiuitely small
the molecules, the atoms, the electrons
each little or big works out the name
God" in its movemeats.
The meeting was opened by a praise
service, led by the Methodist chorus
choir. Rev. W. E. Baker read the scrip
tures and Rev. R. D. Cranmer offered
prayer, i he benediction was pronounced
by Rev. VV. T. Best.
Announcement !
To the People of Johnson and Vicinity :
We wish to announce that we are now prepared to do a
general Banking Business, both savings and commercial.
; lour Patronage Solicited, Appreciated
and Protected .
STERLING TRUST COMPANY
JOHNSON, VERMONT
J
C. N. Farrington, President II. C. Parker, Vice-President
J. D. Corley, Treasurer
TALK ABOUT BUSINESS
WELL, NO WONDER, WHEN
.... YOU CAN GET FOR
6 lbs. of the best Rolled Oats.
3 lbs. good Turkish Prunes.
2 lbs. fancy Turkish Prunes.
3 packages Washington Corn Flakes.
2 cans nice Tomatoes.
2 cans early June Peas.
3 cans early Crosby Corn.
Royal Lyon 50c Tea, 40c.
The old reliable Revere Coffee, 35
c.
Fell Through R. R. Bridge
Ernest C. Page met with a peculiar
and exceedingly painful accident last
Monday night between half past six and
seven o'clock, when coming through the
railroad bridge. ' He was carrying a
basket of clothes and as he was look
ing for a wild .engine to go west about
that time, he was walking on the string
ers at one tide of the track. He must
have slipped, as he fell through between
the stringers and down about 25 feet,
striking upon his hands and head upon
the ice, landing only a few feet from open
water. Harold Magoon and Arthur
Wheeler heard his groans about twenty
minutes after the accident, and went to
bis assistance. With the aid of others
they moved him to his home in the
Earle residence on Brooklyn street. Dr.
George L. Bates was called and dressed
bis wounds, which consisted of a com
pound fracture of the left wrist, a com
pound dislocation of the right thumb
and severe cuts and bruises on the face
and body. His condition was reported
as quite comfortable this morning and it
is thought that there will be no serious
results. Mrs. Page is caring for him1
and Mrs. O. M. Taylor is helping out in
the restaurant.
Morrisfille people and, especially hit
church here, will be pleased to learn
that Rev. W. E. Baker has refused an in
vitation to the pastorate of the Western j The sorrowing ones have the sytupathy
Congregational church of Toronto. J of all to their bereavement.
D. If. Bedell Dies Suddenly
Darius H. Bedell, one of the best known
ivestock buyers in this section of the
State, died suddenly at his home on Ma
ple street last Monday evening at a few
minutes after nine o'clock, the cause of
death being given as apoplexy. He had
been confined to the house most of the
im, nrio w)c ago last - Monday,
when he was taken with acute indmes-
ion while buying stock at the station.
He had been feeling as well as could be
expected Monday and went to the barn
at night to attend to feeding his horse
and visited with Mrs. Bedell during the
evening. He complained, however, of a
pain in his head and mck.but attributed
t to rheumatism. At about nine o'clock
he went up stairs to retire and had un
dressed and turned out the light, when
Mis. Bedell heard him full to the floor
She at once called upon neighbors for
help, but death was evidentlvinstantane
ous. air. Bedell had not been feeling
well since a fall into a silo at his farm on
Dorchester Heights, several months ago,
and it is thought that death was due to
injuries received at that time.
The funeral will be held from the house
tomorrow afternoon at two o'clock,
Rev. R. D. Cranmer of the Universalist
church officiating. The remains will be
interred in the family lot in Pleasant
View Cemetery.
Darius Henry Bedell was born in Wood
bury, June 1, 1S49, one of seven children
r rv 1 - J II! r r ... . .
oi uaniei v.. anu iviina ross ueaeu. He
took advantage of what opportunity
the district schools in those days afford
ed, but at an early age started out for
himself and has since devoted an unusu
ally active life to the pursuits of farming,
lumbering and stock buying, having
been successful to a marked degree in the
latter work. For the past sixteen years
he was W. A. Ricker's Lamoille County
representative.
He was married 44 years ago next
month to Mary Jane, daughter of Caleb
and Catherine Blakely of Hyde Park. To
their union was born nine children, six of
whom survive. They are Mrs. Lilla Ed
gerton, Hyde Park; Mrs. A. B. Gill, Mor
risville; A. C. Bedell, Elmore; Mrs. F. C.
Peck, Mrs. Roy C. Stafiord and Miss
Winnifred Bedell of Morrisville. A daugh
ter, Gladys, died four years ago next
August; a son, Win field, died in child
hood and another in infancy. Mr. Bedell
moved his family to Morrisville from
Wolcott 22 years ago, since which time
he had lived in this village.
Besides his immediate family, he is sur
vived by three sisters. Mrs. C. A. Andrews,
Scituate Center, Mass.; Mrs. John Ow
ens, South Weymouth, Mass., and Mrs.
Abbie Amsden, Morrisville, and one
brother, L. A. Bedell, of Stowe.
The deceased was a good citizen and in
his extensive business dealings made a
large circle of friends, by whom he was
held in high regard. He possessed a bluff,
frank manrJer, and was often misunder
stood, but all who knew him will
remember him as an honest, kind-heart
ed man, indulgent in his family, a loyal
friend, a good neighbor and wise coun
sellor, a man who will be sorely missed
in the lamilv and also in the community.
Same prices as you pay for ordinary prarJe. Trv nur
Sauer Kraut, Home Sausage, Honeycomb Tripe, Sugar
Cured Hams, Breakfast Bacon. Corned Beef. Beef Loaf anrl
other good things.
ARTHUR W. WASTE
MORRISVILLE, VERMONT
Judge Weeks to Speak
Judge VVeeks of Middlebury will speak
at the union meeting in the Cong'l
church on .Sunday . evetinij, nxt -on the
pubject, "Alter Prison, What ?" Judge
VVeeks is the present Speaker of the
House and has been for seyeral years
Chairman of the Board of Trustees of
the ptnal institutions of the state. It
is safe to say that there i no one in New
England more vitally interested in the
welfare of society's unfortunate ones
who become inmates of our penal insti
tutions. His message is sure to be inter-
isting. You are cordially invited.
Game of the Season
Basket ball fans arealllookingforward
to the big game at the local Gymnasium
tomorrow evening, when Peoples Acad
emy meels Burlington High, the leaders
in the league. Much depends upon this
game, as the winning team has a good
chance to win the championship.
Unity Class Entertainment
The pageant drama, "Samantha Allen
at the Court of Fame", will be given
under the direction of Miss Harriette
Harris of Weymouth, Mass., on March
9th and 10th, under the auspices of the
the Unity class of the Congregational
church.
"The Goddess"
One of the most sensational steps in
the art was brought forward when "The
Goddess" was conceived and released by
the Vitagraph Company, as this marks
the era of the continued photoplay in
chapters. It is known and conceded
that serials have been on the wane, par
ticularly the blood and thunder type,
which are nothing but a series of thrills
loosely joined together.
When "The Goddess" was conceived, it
was decided to vary from the common
place and produce arealcontinued photo"
play in chapters similar in all respects to
the continued stories appearing in maga
zines and newspapers. Gouverneur Mor
ris, the author of the story, wrote "The
Goddess" in its entirety, and Charles W.
Goddard in collaboration with Albert E.
Smith and Ralph Ince ecenarioized it.
Great difficulty was experienced, particu
larly with regard to having a great
amount of heart interest in each and
every chapter. As a rule, strials are good
with some installments and very poor in
others and the audiences never know
what to expect with the next installment.
The true art of story writing, however,
is followed with "The Goddess," as each
chapter of the sameincreases in intensitg
and dramatic action. This great serial
commence at the BIJOU next Tuesday
evening. adv.
i nvnp papp
Mrs. Willard Douglass of Greensboro
and Mrs. Chas. Miller of Morrisville vis
ited Mrs; Rlloda Hood last Saturday.
Advertised Letters Frank Jackson,
Addie Cross, Luther Brown, Mac Mona
hon, Gennie Minard, Madeline Monett.
That was surely an interesting basket
ball game last Friday evening when the
town team defeated the school team by
a score of 26 to 21.
H. W. McNally, Overseer of Poor of
Cambridge, was here yesterday in con
sultation with Overseer Barnes concern
ing some disputed poor.
"The Rose of Sharon," in which several
half dollars were invested, does not ap.
pear to be as thrifty as promised. It has
produced good, however, as several have
been searching the Scriptures for infor
mation concerning this Biblical plant.
The Home Culture Club meeting last
week with Mrs. Miner was exclusiveiy
on the work of The Red Cross. Mrs
DeNio's paper, read by Miss Doris, waa
one of much interest as were the articles
selected and read by Mrs. Hulburd and
Mrs. Scofield. Next meeting Feb. 22,
with Mrs. Lillian Noyes.
Will Moore of Plainfield is in town for
a few days transacting business in con
nection with his father's real estate and
personal property here. He has sold the
house and lot opposite the hotel, belong
ing to his father, to Mrs. Eva Boyee, who
will soon take possession of the same. .
Thos. Moore is spending the winter with
his son and is in very poor health.
The "Court of Fame"
The pagent drama, "The Court of
Fame," given by local talent under the
direction of Miss Harriet Harris of Wey
mouth, Mass., will be given at the Hydt
Park opera house on Tuesday and Wed
nesday evenings of next week. There are
about forty characters in it and the play
is instructive as well as amusing. It is
great and if you want an evening of re a'
good entertainment do not miss this, the
evtnt of the season. Tickets are now on
sale at Wood's.
Garfeld Man Presents Claim
There was a bearing last Saturday in
F. G. Fleetwood' officfl before the com
missionrs of the W. W. Peck estate, to
consider a claim brought by Bert Taylor
of Garfield for stumpaffe. R. W. Hul
burd appeared for Taylor. The decision
of the commissioners was deferred.
That "Sunshine" Bag
Dear Editor: Through your valuable
paper I wish to thank all the friends
who helped fill the "Sunshine Bag
for Mother Felcher. It seemed so sad
that her 89th birthday had to be spent
in bed, through the injury received by a
fall last June. Nearly all of her life was
spent in Hyde Park. She was one of the
pioneer teachers, boarding around from
house to bouse, as part of the taxes were
paid in that way those days. Some of
her scholars are noted men, such as Sen
ator Page, Hon. Frank Plumley and the
late Judge White. The friends who con
tributed to the "Sunshine Bag" have no
idea of the amount of pleasure she will
receive from day to day, for Hyde Park
means so much to her. She remembers
Hyde Park people for three or four gener
ations back. Libbie Kelley Felcher.
r';
