piy"1 ' ^fipi^^sp^
? . V r WEATHER.
?t C H ^ *A Thundormhoworo today. Tomorrow
LOOK FOR THE J V(1Ua ?i frWfT ^1 I ^T^IT -SZTZ^VZ
'""i"'. " Uj/|jC ^lUUlulJ JpUlV. J?-?? ii _
-?ZTZ^r WASHINGTON, D. C., SUNDAY MORNING, MAY 28, 1916*
No. 584.-No- 20,332. "
RIGGS BANK MEN
PLANJi FUTURE
If Controller Declines Charter I
June 27 Are Ready for
Suitable Action.
MACHINERY OF BANKING I
TO GO ON JUST THE SAME
State Institution Discussed. Al- j
though It Is Believed Official
.Will End Controversy.
It became known last night that a
piece of banking machinery will be
provided by June 27 to take care of the
business of the Riggs National Bank,
irrespective of whether John Skelton
Williams, controller of the currency,
grants a renewal of the bank's charter,
which expires on that date. j
'i'his information was obtained by a!
reporter fou The Star, following the decision
of a jury in Criminal Division
1, yesterday, acquitting Charles C.
Glover, president of the bank; William
J. Flather. vice president, and Henry H.
Flather, former cashier of the institution.
of a charge of perjury in swear- f
ing that the bank did not deal in
Stocks, as charged by the government.
The obtaining of this information,
which carries with it the fact that
every step has been taken to safeguard
the interests of the stockholders
and clients of the bank, irrespective of
whether the controller grants the renewal
of the charter or not. was the
result of conversation in many clubs
anq other public gathering places of
the city, based on a discussion of the
approaching expiration of the bank's r
charter and tlje possible action of the j
controller, in view of the verdict of r
the jury which vindicated Mr. Glover
and the Messrs. Flather. I *
i s
Bank Certain to Continue. j r
i t
In view of the loyalty of the stock- | 1
holders, depositors and other clients of d
the bank, who have increased the de- 11
posits of the bank by more than $1.- ?
000,000 since the controversy between
the controller and the bank began a s
year or so ago. it was said last night that v
there ia not the slightest doubt, whether
the controller grants a renewal of the
charter or not. about the continuation a
of the bank under a national charter s
or a state charter.
No information could be obtained last p
night on the subject of whether the
bank has yet applied for a renewal of r
its charter from either Mr. Williams. 0
the controller, or officials of the bank*
or their counsel. Mr. Williams had gone *
to Richmond, it was said at his house, n
Mr. Glover retired early, at his country
place. Westover, after receiving a tele- j
phone message of congratulation upon
the quick and satisfactory verdict of
the jury from former President William a
H. Taft. and hundreds of telegrams f
from national bank presidents all over
the country. Mr. Ailes. one of the vice P
presidents of the bank, was not at his \
home, nor was Mr. Flather, the other g
vice president. ( ^
Expect Charter to Be Granted. n
From persons close to the manage- r
ment qf the bank, however, it was as- ^
certained that the controller of the cur-* g
rency will undoubtedly be given an op- f
portunity under the national banking e
act to grant or refuse a continuance of j s
the charter, which expires June 27. and j a
it was said that it was expected that J
the controller will grant the charter J1
and so end the controversy, but that 1
should he refuse to do so, or Impose .
conditions on the bank incapable of 1!
adoption consistent with what the bank 3
might believe the best interests of the J*
bank, its stockholders and its clients.
there will, nevertheless, be provided ?
an institution, a piece of banking ma- p
chinery. under the same management
and at the same address that will give ,c
adequate banking facilities to the M
clients of the bank. ?
T application for a renewal of the
charter of the bank, it is expect- '
ed. will take its orderly course, as r
provided by law. If this appllca- P
tion has not yet been made it undoubtedly
will be. Under the law, |
w.tnin two years of the expiration of
a national bank charter, the bank may
apply to the controller of the currency, f'
and. under the law. when two-thirds a
of the stockholders have given their t)
assent, and the application has been
filed, it becomes the duty of the con- c
troller to send a bank examiner into tj
the bank to determine its condition.
If. upon the report of the bank #?x- ?
aminer. the bank's condition is satis- ,
factory to the controller the law re- h
quires that he shall renew the charter ^
for another period of twenty years.
The law does not say "may." It says 0
" hall," *
TWO MORE STEAMERS I
ARE REPORTED SUNK ?
v
LONDON. May 27.?The British s
ataamship Danewood has been sunlc. 1
Her crew was landed. J
Lloyd's announce that the steamer o
Hercules, nationality unknown, has o
been sunk. c
More than a score of steamers named
Hercules are listed In the shipping e
registers, several of them being Brit- n
lth and others the property of various r
neutrals. o
MISS SILLIMAN IS FREED. j
AND IS RETURNING TO U. S. I
BERLIN. May 27.?Announcement p
was made today of the release of Miss P
Mary Silliman. a teacher In the American
School for Girls at Constantinople.
who was arrested on suspicion j ?
of espionage at Warnemunde. Qer- j
many, a month ago, while on her way I*
to the United States. Miss Silliman i
has been allowed to resume her jour- i
ney home and is returning to America
by way of Holland.
At the time of her srrest it was al- s
leged that the draft of a code for the
transmission of messages had been
discovered in her trunk when it was >
examined at the frontier. Miss Silli- c
m.; n explained that the papers prob- j
ably were placed in her trunk by a re
vng^ful pupil at the school. The 1
American ambassador, James W. Ger- 8
ard, has been active in her behalf.
DEMOCRATS GETTING HEADY.
ST LOUIS. Mo. May 27.-fJ. Bruce
Kremer of Butte, Mont., secretary of
the democratic national committee, arrived
today and opened headquarters
for the national committee. The subcommittee
of the national committee
will meet here June 2 to perfect plans
for the convention.
W. R. Holltster of Missouri, assistant 1
to the secretary of the national com- 1
m it tee, will arrive from Washington
#arly next week, bringing with him the 1
credentials of the state delegations. J
i from which the temporary roll of the ]
convention will be made up.
) r
PARADE PLAN STIRS
HLPMITS
Quick Response to Suggestion
Promises Big Preparedness
Demonstration Here.
FLAG DAY EVENT TO RIVAL
DISPLAYS IN OTHER CITIES
Formation of Large Committee of
Citizens to Be Perfected Within
Day or Two to Push Plans.
Fund for Expenses of
Parade Plans Started
The following subscriptions
have been received by Rudolph
Kauffmann, treasurer of the
citizens' executive committee,
to be applied toward the necessary
expenses incident to making
arrangements for the preparedness
parade:
The Evening Star Newspaper
Company $200
R. P. Andrews Paper Company
$25
Lanman Engraving Company
$10 i
Total $235
Although less than three days old, the '
novement for a preparedness parade '
n "Washington, June 14, Flag day, al- 5
eady has assumed such proportions
hat those who were instrumental in <
tarting it feel confident that it will
neet with success and that the Naional
Capital will be the scene of a 1
lemonstration which will rival those
leld in other cities from the standpoint J
f size, and exceed them in enthusiasm. (
Seldom has any movement met with i
uch instantaneous response as that 1
trhich greeted the preparedness parade J
dea. Within a few hours after the t
nnouncement of the plan to hold
uch a parade was made in the
lublic press yesterday afternoon, the
leads of various organizations, busi- ,
less, civic, patriotic, military and (
otherwise, indicated that they proposed j
o give their unqualified support to the j
novement.
Raise Fund for Expenses. <
Within a day or so the formation of '
, large citizens' committee will be perected,
it is believed, and then definite '
lans for the parade will be considered.
Vith only seventeen days, counting J
nnilavi in which to Drennrc for the
ig demonstration, it is realised that 1
o time must be lost in making arangements.
Already an executive
ommittee has been formed, with Wiliam
F. Gude as chairman, and a sub*
cription has been started to raise a
und with which to defrajr necessary
xpenses in connection with the parade,
uch as printing, letter writing, postge
and like items in connection with
orrespondence with organizations and
ndividuals who plan to participate in
he demonstration.
A feature of the parade which, it
? believed, will enlist for it universal
upport will be the personnel of those
rho are to compose it. It is proposed
o throw the parade open to every kind
f organization, business, profession,
ccupation and individual that stands
!>r national preparedness in its bfoadst
sense. It is to be a parade for men,
fomen and children, for young and for
ld .
The parade will have fts military
eatures, but there also will be a great
epresentation of those who believe in
reparedness along other lines.
Expect Many Organizations.
Amnnsr the organizations suggested
or participation in the demonstration
re regular army troops. District Na- ^
lonal Guard, high school cadets and
adets of private educational institu- \
Ions, police and fire departments, or- t
anizations having for their members 8
eterans of the civil and Spanish-Amer- n
;an v^rs such as the G. A. R. and
panisn War Veterans. Boy Scouts and
ri rl Scouts, suffrage organizations. ^
ivic and commercial organizations and a
score of others. The plan also con- r
emplates participation by public school 0
nd high school students and students ,,
f private schools, members of the
unior patriotic organizations and ?
there. :
Participation by representatives of 1
arious occupational lines is another c
uggested feature. Fraternal organiza- a
ions will be asked to lend their sup- J1
ort by turning out large delegations !
f marchers. The financial institutions *
f Washington will be asked to coperate
from president down to junior ^
lerk. .
Already many persons have suggest- t
d to members of the executive comlittee
that there should be sections
epresenting the various governmental #
ffices and bureaus.
The fact that President Wilson, Sec- c
etary Baker and Secretary Daniels ,
ave given their indorsement to the t
ilan for the parade will mean much f
or the demonstration. At the very
utset, before public announcement wa's
nade of the plan, the administration
.laced its stamp of approval on the
iroject.
Business Men Pledge Aid. t
readers in business circles of Waah. a
ngton also have given the plan their
ndorsement and have pledged to aid
n every way In making the parade a
uccess. (
"I am heartily In favor of the ideV'
laid P- T. Moran. president of the
Vashington Chamber of Commerce,
esterday afternoon. "Every resident
,f Washington should do everything
n his power to make this demonstraion
in favor of national preparedness
is great a success as that held recentv
in New York. We cannot expect to
i'ave such a big turn-out. but we can
it least match that demonstration in
rnthuslasm. I believe that the people
>f the United States are becoming
iroused to the fact that a certain detree
of national preparedness is absoutely
necessary. Let us Washlngtolians
demonstrate to the remainder of
he country that we are for preparedless."
R. P. Andrews, president of the Retall
Merchants- Association, became a
booster for the preparedness parade
immediately upon his being acquainted
with the plans for the project.
"I want to see this movement developed
into the greatest- demonstration
hat Washington has ever witnessed. I
iclleve the plan is a good one and that
(Continued on Thirteenth Page.)
INK THE COLONEL
MAY MSE ROOT
Progressives Discuss Leader's
Probable Preference
Should Justice Hughes
Be "Stopped."
REGULARS NOT FEARING
STAMPEDE TO ROOSEVELT
Willing to Hake Concessions, But
Say Threat of Bolt Will
Not Frighten.
BY N. O. MESSENGER.
CHICAGO, May 27.?One of the developments
of today was discussion among
the progressive leaders of possible considerations
which might be weighed by
Col. Roosevelt in contemplating the exigency
of accepting ISlihu Root in case
Mr. Justice Hughes is "stopped" by the
allies and the Roosevelt interests.
The only ground of possibility of the
colonel doing this, in their opinion,
was that Mr. Root is regarded as standing
for Americanism and preparedness
almost as vigorously as the colonel,
having made a speech on that line
which, it is intimated here, was vised
by the colonel before.its delivery. The
progressives said that while humanita
nanism is the keystone of progressive
principles, an Americanized and prepared
country must come first, and
Root is for Americanism and preparedness.
But the leaders said further that if
they should accept Mr. Root the ticket
would certainly lose the support of the
20-called "conscience progressives."
rhat is to say, the men who stand for
radical progressivism, no matter
whether they win or lose in the elections.
Such a threatened loss would not dismay
the regular republicans at all. (
rbey know that a certain percentage
nf extreme bull moosers will be satisled
with nothing short of absolute dictation
of platform and candidate, and
:hey have discounted their disaffection.
It does not seem to threaten to amount
.0 a great deal, anyhow. .
Radicals Are Vociferous.
In fact, it is well known that the
radical bull moose element is vociferous
rather than potential. They will
lave more delegates than the regulars,
tmt they will not represent many voters.
Take the case of Nebraska as an
*xaiqple. The sixteen bull moose delegates
from that state were elected by
132 votes cast in the entire commonwealth,
the state which in 1912 gave *
Roosevelt 72,000 votes. In the recent
frrlmartes the delegates to the republican
convention represented 102,000
rotes and the democratic delegates
>6,000 votes.
Another development of today was an
xpression of opinion in Important progressive
quarters that if the radicals
n the bull moose convention run away
vith that body and nominate the d
:olonel as their candidate before the
egulars have acted, the colonel will t
withhold his acceptance or rejection of a
hat nomination until after the repubjeans
have expressed their choice.
The regular republicans maintain a
hat the primaries in Massachusetts, j
Cew Jersey, Colorado and California t
dearly demonstrated that Col. Rooserelt's
nomination by the regulars is out n
>t the question. The regulars do not e
>elieve the colonel can get the support
ft the regular convention, and the pnly 8
luestion that concerns them in con- a
>ection with the colonel is whether
hey may obtain his indorsement of the .
andidate they name. *
The "field." or the "allies," as the J"
avorite son candidates are termed, still *
nsist that their combined strength, to- \
;ether with the influence they expect 1
he colonel to exert, will stand as a bar r
o the selection of Mr. Hughes on an *
arly ballot. They claim, in fact, that
he Hughes strength will wane from
iow on. under the questioning of delegates
as to his position on public quesions
and his inability to answer. 1
Acknowledge the Hughes Strength. E
But the progressives do not under- n
alue the Hughes strength. It is known c
>eyond a doubt that Col. Roosevelt re- a
rards Mr. Hughes as the obstacle to his h
iwn nomination, and that at this mo- q
nent the colonel's chief efforts are j
leing bent to heading off Mr. Hughes. ,
tnd that he realizes he cannot make a '
nove for himself until Mr. Hughes is 2
ut of the way. ?
Well, he hasn't anything on the <
field" in this regard. They are in the g
iame boat. It is rather pathetic to see t
hem. Here are the managers, hugging n
o their bosoms thf delegates they n
laim to have in leash for candidates, h
tnd turning wistful eyes toward the s
nass of uninstructed delegates, where- r
n Jies that much heralded but un- i?
mown quantity, the "Hughes senti- i
nent." f
Could they but get a line on tnat t
>right flame, which, like a will o' the t
vlsp, flutters ahead of them, how happy
hey could be. they murmur.
These facts stand out prominently
tnd immutably in the pre-convention
dtuation: first, that this will be an "organization"
convention in spirit; sec>nd.
that the "handpicked" delegates
vill not be amenable to stampede tacics
and not overawed by the demon(tration
expected from the bull moos>r?.
1
Spirit of Conciliation Manifested.
However, it I" not to be understood '
hat this signifies an attitude of deft- i
ince to progressive sentiment or to con- 1
rol by the old guard agd the stand- j
jatters. On the contrary, a spirit of I
onclllatlon and sincere desire for har- |
nony will he dominant. The leaders .
>f the regular republicans will make
he broadest concessions on platform to ,
he progressives.
But they Will not tolerate a position ,
>y the bull moosers, which seems now
ioreshadowed. of "take us, our candl- '
late and platform, as we demand, or we
jolt." If It comes to that, it seems to
je the present Intention of the guiding
spirits of the regular organization to
leave a sigh and let them go their way.
Before such a crisis arises, however,
:here will be a world of conference and
oaxlng and negotiation.
The bull moosers apparently are de>ending
upon a definite line of action
n their effort to Induce the regulars ,
o take Col. Hoosevelt. The principal ]
'eature will be a tremendous demon- (
itratton to foster the suggestion of a
:ountry-wide demand for the colonel, ]
loping to Imbue the old-line republcan
leaders themselves and the
'hand-picked" delegates as well with <
he Idea that perhaps it would be best
ifter all to accept the colonel. An- ,
jther line of procedure will be to give ,
!ree rein to their radical crusaders,
with threats of a bolt, and say to the
egulars: "We are afraid we cannot j
told our people; If you don't take the J
(.Continued on Fifth Page.) (
?
It i
Ij
'
fi A
SQUASH (
REGARDS HYPHEN
AS A MISTER
"We Don't Intend to Permit It
to Remain," Says Col.
Roosevelt.
OYSTER BAY, N. Y., May 27.?HunIreds
of persons came here today in
hree special trains from New York
ind marched from the railroad station
o Sagamore Hill, in columns four
ibreast, to pay their respects to Col.
"heodore Roosevelt and assure him of
heir support in the event of his nomilation
for the presidency. The marchrs,
headed by the 7th Regiment Band,
ang "The Army and Navy Forever,"
,nd other popular airs.
Richard M. Hurd, who was spokesman
or the visitors in addressing: Col. j
ioosevelt, said: "Lincoln said this na- I
ion could not endure half slave and
talf free. It is equally true, as you
lave pointed out, that this nation canlot
now endure half hyphenated and
talf American."
Col. Roosevelt's Reply.
Col. Roosevelt, addressing: the visitors
from the porch of his home, said, in
art:
"We have a right to demand of every
nan who comes here and becomes a
itizen that he become an American
nd nothing else. We regard the
lyphen as a bar sinister drawn across
ur national coat-of-arms and we don't
ntend to permit it to remain there. To
rou, both natives of this country
md those born abroad, and, above
ill, to you old native Americans
>f old stock, you cannot expect to
?et loyalty from the immigrant or
:he immigrant's children unless you
nake this a country to which a proud
nan can be loyal. And to do that you
lave got to demand that the country
tand for courage and for strength. No
nan ever yet was loyal to a coward.
Co man ever yet was loyal to a weaking
whose weakness was due to the
act that he would not take the pains
md undergo the effort necessary to
>e strong.
Dewey Peace Provocative.
"Just today I was very glad to see
published in the papers the letter of
\.dmirar Dewey describing an incident
hat took place while I was President.
iVhen we were menaced with trouble, I
icted up to my theory that the proper
vay of handling international relations
vas by speaking softly and carrying a
jig stick And in that particular case
Dewey ana me American uc? icjmstented
the big stick. 1 asked on behalf
jf the nation for nothing to which we
were not entitled. I was as courteous
is possible; I not only acted with justice.
but with courtesy toward them. I
out every battleship and every torpedo
boat on the sea under the American
flag and Dewey, with instructions to
hold himself ready and In entire preparedness
to sail at a moment's notice.
That didn't mean that we had war.
Dewey was the greatest possible provocative
of peace.
Cite* Lowell Sentiment.
"We will do well to remember one of
txweU's great lines; 'Peace won't
keep house with fear.' It Is a line
worth remembering, and the way to
get peace is not being so unprepared
as to invite war, still less by using
words which are not translated Into
deeds, but by behaving with scrupulous
Justice and courtesy toward the
ether nations, and at the same time being
so prepared, both in soul and In
body, both psiritually and materially, as
to make it evident that insult to this
nation by any other nation will not be
tolerated by our people."
After Col. Roosevelt had finished his
speech the visitors formed in line,
shook hands with him and passed
through his house. The large porch
from which Col. Roosevelt spoke collapsed
at one end while the throng was
inarching past. No one was hurt, however.
II vS
? I
II &
1 mot$z
%A JrXi WHAT ? -?
vtk^i-KTeocW _ _ ... ,?r
:enter's pre-conventioj*
Senator Hardit
For Complet
His Speech as Presiding
tional Convention to v
ation of All Forces b
The necessity of the complete unioi
of all the forces favoring: Americanisn
and the burying of all past differencei
will be the theme of the keynote speed
of the republican national conventioi
to be delivered by Senator Harding o
Ohio, temporary chairman. In it h<
voices the desire of politicians of al
shades of opinion that no old bitter
ness be carried into the campaign?i
desire which has been seen in all th?
political maneuvers, and it is expecte<
to control to the end:
A member of Congress who has seer
the address prepared by the Ohio senator
is authority for the statemen
that it offers the most cordial invitation
for the return of those republican!
who joined the third party movemen
in 1912, and pleads for a party declara
tion which shall meet the highest ex
pectations of the country. There is n<
surrender of republican principles suggested,
neither is there reprimand 01
reproof for the progressives, but ar
extended hand of welcome.
Preparedness Cordially Indorsed.
Preparedness is given cordial in
dorsement along the lines of the re
BULGARS TAKE POSITIONS
ON GRECIAN TERRITORY
Artillery Engagements Are Pronounced
Along Whole Macedonian
Front.
L/l Fi> L/Uil, i>l M V i. I . 1I1CIC IS JJIUnounced
activity now in the Balkans,
artillery engagements along the entire
Macedonian front, where the FrancoBritish
forces and the armies of the
Teutonic allies are facing each other,
being reported.
Bulgarian troops yesterday installed
themselves for the first time on Greek
territory, according to a Havas dispatch
from Saloniki, under date of
May 26.
Fort Roupel on the Struma, north of
Demi Hissar, says the dispatch, was
occupied at noon by a Bulgarian regiment,
the Greek commander of the
fort being given two hours in which
to evacuate it.
Then, continuing its advance, the Bulgarian
regiment occupied Forts KanIvo
and Dragotin, constructed by the
Greeks immediately after the last war.
PAROLED UNTIL JUNE 2.
Smith Bracey, Accused in Connection
With Alleged Stock Swindle.
NEW YORK. May 27.?Smith Bracey,
arrested here yesterday at the request
of the federal authorities of Baltimore
in connection with an alleged stock
swindling scheme involving more than
2X00,000, was arralnged today before
United States commissioner Houghton
and paroled in his 'counsel's custody
(or a hearing on June 2.'
Bracey declined to oomment on his
situation. The warrant, which accuses
him of using the mails to defraud,
is said by the police to be based
on literature he is alleged to have sent
out in an effort to sell stock in a
North Carolina mine. His attorney
said yesterday that the action was an
attempt by stockholders to obtain control
of the mines.
i
I DEBATE.
ig Will Plead
e Party Reunion
Officer at Republican Na
roice A ppeqjjor Copperavoring
Americanism.
publicans in the Senate, who are
credited as advocating and voting for
a vigorous program. Linked with this
is the senator's own pronounced view
i in favor of national industrial self-ref
liance under a scientific tariff.
b The senator does not attempt to speak
1 the whole party faith or fix the issues
of the campaign. He insists that the
people will attend to that later. The
1 address on the whole, it is declared, is
s wholesomely and sturdily American,
. and abundantly comprehensive to call
the attention of the convention forcibly
to the great questions which will be at
i issue in the 1916 election.
t Likely to Be Permanent Chairman.
j It has been decided so far as can be,
t previous to the action of the conven
tion, that Senator Harding will be the
" permanent as^well as the temporary
chairman. Several others have been
r discussed, but none seems to have all the
* necessary qualifications. The Ohio senator.
besides his high standing in the
party and his familiarity with parliamentary
law. is of fine appearance and
a constitution which will enable him to
" endure the arduous work of presiding
- over the convention.
IMENARE SEIZED
' IN IOT GAME. RAID
Police Smash Window and Make
Bound-Up at 1612 14th
Street N.W.
The police raided a poker game in
. rooms above 1612 14th street northwest
? soon after 1 o'clock this morning and arrested
about twenty-five men, including
! rested about twenty-five men. Julian
Reed was held on the charge of setting !
up a gaming table, and the others were
^ taken into custody as witnesses.
The game was on the second floor and
Sergt. J. W. Pierson of the second pre>
cinct and Policeman Steve S. Goggins
of'the eighth precinct climbed up a ladder.
oroKe a second-story window and Jump- j
' ed down among the players almost be'
ed down among the gamblers almost before
they had time to make a move. One
man, however, did try to escape by ?
jumping from a window, but he was
caught by policemen stationed outside i
the building. The jump from the second \
story window did not injure him. ,
The party was hurried into three police
patrol wagons and sent to headauarters.
Maj. Pullman, superintendent of police,
was at headquarters when the prisoners
arrived. He has been keeping in close
touch with his subordinates who have !
been planning this raid for the last two
or three weeks.
THREE FACE COURT-MARTIAL. >
i
Army Officers Accused of Cribbing *
in Examinations. ,
Three officers under Instruction at the i
army school at Fort Leavenworth face 1
court-martial for submitting in an ?x- t
amlnatlon a traced copy of an old <
fortifications map and representing it 1
as original work.
A report from the school commandant
reached the War Department yesterday
and It la understood the courtmartial
order will be promulgated .
shortly. The odicers are Capt. W1U J
. liam H. Armstrong, Porto Rlcan Reg- <
tment; Capt. Fred H Gallup, 3d Field I
Artillery, and Capt. Harry Graham, Mth <
Infantry. t
TIDE OF COM I
SHIFTSATVERDUN
First One Side and Then the I
Other Gains the
Ascendency.
FRENCH DRIVEN OUT !
OF CUMIERES, CLAIM
Fierce Fighting Goes on Around |
Fort Douaumont, Teutons Registering
Small Gains.
i?iay i. t.?oeiore mo ricuvn
fortress of Verdun the tide of battle
i'8 flowing: now with one combatant
and then with the other. Northeast
of Verdun the territory about Fort
Douaumont is hotly disputed ground.
The Germans are holding their own in
the terrain recently won there, but
their main efforts to advance further
have been frustrated by the strength
of the French defense. In the Thi- (
aumont wood sector nearby, however, j
the crown prince's troops have scored ^
a gain southward. .
On the other bank of the Meuse, to ,
the northwest of Verdun, engagements (
of probably equal intensity are in
progress. In a vicious midnight at- ]
tack the French succeeded in forcing {
their way into the village of Cumieres, ,
which the Germans captured last week,
but Berlin declares that the village
was soon cleared of the French forces
who hacf penetrated it, a few score of
them falling into the hands of the
Germans in the process.
French Official Report.
The French official communication.
hv the war office tonight, reads: 1
"South of the Somme the concentrated
fire of our batteries destroyed 1
sev ral shelters of the enemy and
damaged his trenches.
"In Champagne both artillery forces
were very active in the sectors of
Ville-Sur-Torbe. Tahure and Navarin.
About 6 o'clock in the evening the
Germans directed an attack against
our positions to the west of the road
from Navarin and gained a footing in
several small posts of our advanced
line from which our counter attacks
drove them out completely.
"On the left bank of the Meuse there
was fighting with artillery and trench
guns in the Avocourt wood and in the
sector of Hill 304. To the southwest
of Le Mort Homme we captured sev- '
eral sections of trenches and made
about fifty prisoners.
"The number of prisoners captured
in the course of our attack on
Cumieres has reached about 100: two
machine guns remained in our hands.
Progress Is Reported.
"On the right bank the bombardment
has been maintained with intensity in
the region of Haudromont-Douaumont.
In the underground passageways to <
the northwest of the Thiaumont farm 1
we made appreciable progress in the
course of the day.
"In the Woevre there was a reciprocal
bombardment in the sectors at
the foot of the Meuse hills."
Belgian communication: "Last night
was calm and today was marked only
by artillery actions on both sides '
along the whole of our front." i
German Communication.
The text of today's statement by Ger- ''
man army headquarters follows:
"Western front?North of La Bassee
canal one of our patrols penetrated an j
enemy position near Festnuoert, where (
some prisoners were taken, the patrol ]
returning without loss.
"In the Argonne there have been live- j
ly mining operations, during which ,
enemy trenches were destroyed over a
great width. The French suffered
numerous losses in dead and wounded \
and also some prisoners were taken. ,
"On the left bank of the Meuse (Ver- ,
dun front) the French succeeded tern- ,
porarily in penetrating the southern part i
of the village of Cumieres during stubborn
midnight attacks. In clearing them .
out we took sixty-three prisoners.
"On the right bank of the Meuse we J
succeeded in advancing as far as the \
heights in the region southwest of Thiau- 1
mont wood. A French attack against our ?
advance was stopped at the very outset
by our artillery.
"Two enemy attacks against our newly
captured positions south of Fort Douaumont
completely failed. In engagements
southwest of this fort since May 22 we
have taken prisoner 48 officers and 1.943
men."
Activity on British Front.
"Last night (May 26) a hostile patrol
was surprised and dispersed southeast
of Laventie and a high explosive
charge for wire-cutting was captured.
"During the night we bombarded the
enemy trenches southeast of Neuve
CVmnnftlle- and our artill#?rv firo I
the destruction of enemy stores at 8
Guillemont. The enemy directed a x
heavy bombardment lasting eighty |
minutes against our trenches west of *Fricourt
and also shelled our trenches ,
about Serre. ?
"We sprang five mines, three about
Hulluch, and two southeast of Cuinchy. ?
The enemy sprang one mine about the "
Hohenzollern redoubt, another west of
La .Folie wood, the crater of which our a
troops occupy. t
"Today the enemy artillery has been
active against our positions about
Suzanne. Ovillers, Hebuterne, Souchez,
Loos, Bois Grenier, St. Kloi and Ypres.
"We bombarded enemy trenches west a
of Lens and southeast of Laventie.
Hostile parties working east of Mari^ourt
were dispersed by artillery fire, h
"The Germans have shown rather t<
more activity than usual in the last
rew days, and their expenditure of am- a
munition has been lavish." q
^ ii
tl
LINCOLN GOES TO ENGLAND, n
P
Starts Voyage in Custody of Scot- a
land Yard Detectives. J
NEW YORK. May 27.?Ignatius T. T. 81
L.lncoln. formerly a member of the m
British parliament and confessed ln.ernatlonal
spy, was today taken back SJ
;o England by Scotland Yard detec- p,
Ives aboard the Anchor Line steam- di
ihlp Cameronia at the request of the
British government, which wants him ~
o answer to a charge of forgery. Lin- *
:oln once escaped from Jail here, but
vas recaptured. ft
ol
Mme. Jane Dieu-Lafoy Dies. ft
PARIS, May 27.?<:5S a.m.?Mme. at
Fane Dieu-Lafoy, author, explorer, 81
ihevaller of the Legion of Honor and
>ossessor of the unique privilege, actorded
by the French government, of
rearing male apparel. Is dead. pi
....A
PRESIDENT TALKS
TO PEACE LEAGUE
Jrges Common Force to Preserve
Rights of the Weaker
Nations.
SPEECH BELIEVED FEELER
FOR A MEDIATION OFFER
Chief Executive Weighs His Words
and Leading Men of Nation Commend
His Utterances.
Prediction that the time is near when
.he nations will have a common force to
naintain international justice and safe
?uard the rights of weaker nations
igainst selfish aggression and in protec:ion
of Inviolable rights of peoples and
nankind was expressed by President Wflion
at the banquet of the League to En'orce
Peace last night.
Suggestions for future peace in the making
of the terms of which he said ho
hoped the United States will become a
partner were also stated. These, coming
at a time when the capitals of the world
are agog with suggestions of peace overtures
and the intimation that President
Wilson may be a mediator for the termination
of the titanic war in Europe, and
after the President had given most careful
preparation to his speech, are interpreted
by many as a "feeler" to discover
how the belligerents would receive
peace overtures.
Significance of the Gathering.
The significance of the gathering in
the New Willard Hotel last evening
cannot be overestimated. There were
present many of the greatest men in
the nation, representing all phases of
the national life; men of every shade
of political feeling, leading churchmen,
practically every member of the cabinet,
presidents of the largest universities,
men whose names are known
throughout the country for business
enterprise. It was the largest dinner
held in Washington for some time. And
all of these various leaders united in
indorsing the program of the League
to Enforce Peace, which was drafted
by former President Taft and President
A. Lawrence Lowell of Harvard
University.
Enthusiasm was a feature of the
banquet. Every utterance regarding
the duties of nations toward each other,
their interdependence and new spirit
of internationalism that has come
"with the shrinking of the globe,"
each prayer for an early peace and
then co-operative effort by the nations
with prolonged applause.
Each sentence of President Wilson's
speech, uttered as axiomatic, deliberately
so that it sank into the minds of
aSl those gathered in the big banquet
hall, won prompt and prolonged applause.
When he had finished many
of those seated at the guest table
pressed forward and shook hands vigorously
in congratulation and commendation.
Notable Gathering of Great Men.
Considering that it was the most
notable gathering of great men of the
United States that has been held .by
voluntary action in many years, and
considering the importance that these
men saw in the utterances of the occasion.
officers of the league do not
hesitate to say that they consider the
Assemblage epoch-making in the history
of this country if not of the entire
world.
To preserve the peace of the world
against "political ambition and selfish
hostility." in service of "a common order,
a common justice and a common
peace." the United States is ready to
join in any association of nations, said
Mr. Wilson. Hone that the terms nf
peace concluding the war will contain
some such arrangement was expressed.
Provision for absolute freedom of the
seas for all nations was emphasized in
the suggestions he made for peace, and
with the suggestion that at the proper
time the United States might offer
them. This contention has been the #
keynote of all diplomatic discussions
with Germany and Great Britain, and
his clause was given very marked approval
by the auditors. Virtual guar*
mtees for territorial integrity ana poitical
independence were also empht*
>ized in these suggested proposals.
Text of President's Address.
In full, the President spoke as follows:
"When the invitation to be here totight
came to me I was glad to accept
t, not because it offered me an opporunity
to discuss the program of the
eague?that you will, I am sure, not
jxpect of me?but because the desire of
he whole world now turns eagerly,
nore and more eagerly, toward the
lope of peace, and there is just reason
v*hy we should take our part in counsel ?
ipon this great theme. It is right that ;
, as spokesman of our government,
hould attempt to give expression to
that I believe to be the thought and
urpose of the people of the United
Itates in this vital matter.
"This erreat war that hrnkp so snd
ienly upon the world two years ago,
nd which has swept within its flame
0 great a part of the civilized world,
as affected us very profoundly, and we
re not only at liberty, it is perhaps
ur duty, to speak very frankly of it
nd of the great interests of civilizalon
which it affects.
War's Far-Reaching Results.
"With its causes and its objects we
re not concerned. The obscure foun ?
ains from which its stupendous flood
as burst forth we are not interested
3 search for or explore. But so great
flood, spread far and wide to every
uarter of the globe, has of necessity
igulfed many a fair province of right
lat lies very near to us. Our own
ights as a nation, the liberties, the
rivileges and the property of our peole
have been profoundly affected. We
re not mere disconnected lookers-on.
he longer the war lasts the more
aeply do we become concerned that it
lould be brought to an end and the
orld be permitted to resume its noral
life and course again.
"And when it does come to an end we
lall be as much concerned as the naons
at war to see peace assume an asset
of permanenoe, give promise of
iys from which the anxiety of unirtainty
shall be lifted, bring some astrance
that peace and war shall alavs
hereafter be reckoned part of the
immon interest of mankind. We are
irticipants, whether we would or not.
the life of the world. The interests
! all nations are our own also. We are
trtners with the rest. What affects ;
ankind is inevitably our affair as well
1 the affair of the nations of Europe
id of Asia.
Secret Counsels Blamed.
"One observation en the causes of the.,
resent war we are at liberty to make, '
* 1
