r,
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Thunder showers to-day: to-morrow
cloudy; south winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 68; lowest, 55,
Detailed weather, mull and marine rcpott.i on rase 1 7
IT SHINES FOK ALL
tin.
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 271.
NEW YORK, SUNDAY, MAY 28, 1916. copyright, 1M6. tj ir sun i'rmu,,g n rubitht,g Assaeuittn
60 PAGES.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
3,000 PILGRIMS
ASK ROOSEVELT
TO LEAD THEM
No Mini Was Kvcp Loyal to
a Ovarii." Me Tolls Visi
tors to Patramove Hill.
PKACr. WON'T KKKP
I
HOl'SK WITH Fl'.AK"'
,
. T ,, ....
TllU tJUOtt'S 1.0. VP 11 1IPII
He Peiuands Courage,
Strength and Loyalty.
Oti-Ttn But. N Y, May 27 Three
tdnuji .1 in..iu.aftic men and women
took pari in the pilgrimage to Saga
more H.i to-day to tell Col. Itooscvelt
that t'.iey .t"t him for their next Preside!)-
And fie C 'lor.cl. standing on the
... I
TfaPili : n:s nome, iooKen ou: over -
.- hi.
th- -mils tramp.tnc his lawn and told
t.n ' e unafriooii inai ine n.u
pieJited themselve to him only so far
M he embodied the prlnclvles of Amer
kinifni. Pee wen t keep house with fear."
it quuiid from the poet Lowell, and
wiu hterd mlchtlly. "No man was
tir loja! to a coward." he told them,
trd aci: ' they ehtered. and they cheered
tsifrn.tteat'j all the while he told them
thu n nnler to w.n the loyalty of the
im .lias tins country must stand for
eo.TJie a-.J trl'r.(:h.
I' is !.o;hiiiR ecept a succession
efchtti;. at a matter of fait, that could
U eaid .i the hn.top for a lonir time.
r.J the army of marchers and their
cum, i Ml. ners maklm; a holldaj of It
rm(d ar iund .the Colonel's liou.-e
1. u-'a arfietab- enthueiasin mat
?a l i porch cullaptid aa the open
iff K'ee. S.-nak.nn ended and the crowd
,tr' j ' . rus'i to the door to :u thruush
i4 hik lui.ds with the Culoncl.
Three Special Trains.
Psfors that llieie was the excitement
uir i'.iit iiain.-. .uiiiiiK lino ;rt rail-
rcJ stat.on In the village anil empty
!rr hundreds of strA hatted, lloosevelt
Wr.nerel men Into the nearby streets,
ted bcfoie the ttrst train got lure t
J uiljik thetc had ben a turbulent
erne a.ioard. for the lailroad official I
in .ew iork. n uttered at tne hzc or tn
troa. uua sent tne nret i-peel a I train
cut w taout .lAJ-itlx-i; lr '-
fl:tritiuti xiHt i-.utiit,t t ti.A ,s..-
duciur declaring somewhere around
M.r.ila ih.n l.n wonta tt.r. ,r n
uA not take It a tie further, but duv
tmerson. ccretarv of the Itnosev.-lt
Xor.-Partisaii Lciguii and In charge of
!t. p grimage. satltlied the coliduc-'
tor scruples by invtnting tickets out of
pocket niunorunda, which were ri
itexsd on the train's anival litre
Thn. with the Sevinth Heglineiit band
but not in the Seventh Heglnicnt uniforms-at
the hia.J of the pio. esulon.
I-' pilg .nis were marshalleil six or
lht aurea t and started for their three
.l i a ha . m.ic walk. Thero were sev
tral huidrt men and women who made
ke 'r., by automobile, and the tnxlcab
iners of the village took advantage of
se e.vlruj.d.nary situation to form a
U!t ti.e minute they saw the first
trIn pull In and to fix a special schedule
o. 'ati-s in keeping with the day.
TI.e parade passtd under the banner
"n hast Mam street, erected to-day by
.fce villagers and readltiB; "Prejiarvd
' and Straliht Americanism.'' and
lushed straight on aruunU the Cove
ffciel. stretching a mile long In places,
nd nub every marcher lighting it out
lo the last, despite the fact that many
si.dcm.tr)- oitlce iikh and many
ere lust the prime and active stage of
Long. Munnd Aflrr Cllnih.
Th miracle of the parade for so it
H-ius to Oyster Hay also furnished
more eiierelsa to many men thnn they
,u "d U )ear. Uut the climb up
t i .' ' rrove such n tax upon
'ir lui.g capacity but that they wete
e to lift loud voices and continuously
it mir.ute they e.iw Col. Itoosevelt come
o'Jt on the veranda. Some of them were
"n flngir.R, "We'll vote for Theodore
"ocsevdt because we know he'U be true
to the tune of, "tJlory, (ilory, Hallelujah."
o'hers were being U-V-'U'-'
Tdo giving a yell comiK.sc! by
"e of tnm und to the effect that; "A
0" vl, a oo vie; a veo vl, voo vi vum;
J.m. , a iit trrt1 blBKer llm a ,..
I . --' .it. , , -i,nieiii, mi,
Mh ve. Tn'-'d'0''e Iloosevelt, rah. I
uni : I'resiileril. lp.,ol,An, iu
"h. rah!
ti,tThls . 13 w""'terfui:M exclaimed Col.
I f:f,'"' fPled a civil war veteran
landing close to the porch; the Colo
nt. s ejes;ht lllW(iy dependable when
HPratis are In his audience.
s veicr.'in. .h-" t,fc i...i ii
f ihT rnt" h:in'1 "Th''s the kind ,
B 1", h)7ihenate would endure.-'
tutu, ICIVIIIUK
s tickled to death," whispered an
I
CoiiKaurrf on y(fth t;,gfi
THE SUN TO-DAY
CONSISTS OF Si:VKN SECTION'S
AS FOLLOWS: .
Page...
FIRST
General Newi
12-
SEC0SD
Sporting, Kenneli.
18
Automobile!
THIRD -Society, Dram
Fait..
lorn, Heiorlj
FOURTH -Pictorial Marine
HFTII Special 1'eaturti, Books.
Queries, Cliesi
SITH Foreign, Gardens, '
Schools, Poultry, H.
,,.. nancial. Problems 8
SEVEN --Real Estate . . 4
Tola
60
RttJtn or ntuiJcaltrs uho ia not re
cfu all of thest iidiom uill tonjtr a
fatr on " Tht Sun" ty notljyini Iht Pub.
litaUon Dtpartmtnt al once by tht pbont
(2200 Rrctman) and mlislnf Stiltons
ulll be promptly fotuarjtd Ij possllle.
WAITE FOUND GUILTY IN 1
83 MINUTES, SAYS HE'S j
READY TO GO TO CHAIR
Jury Disregards Plea of "Moral Idiocy" Prisoner Re-
fuses to See Father After Verdict Wife in Court,
Hidden From Spectators Gaze.
Arthur Wnnen Walte was convicted
of imir.lor In the tlrst degree yestcr-
day afternoon.
It required only one hour and twenty
tint e minutes for the Jury In the Criminal
iTiimii 01 me supreme Court, where he
lliidbc'nn fr poisoning his fathcr-
In-law. John 11 Peek, to record Its de-
clslon. In actual time of deliberating It
"ol "ken co Ions. Nearly half of
the clghty-lhrce minutes wan taken up
I the eating of u long delayed lunch-
j ion of sandwiches and coffee.
Watte endeavored to receive the ver
dict with the same. Indifference that
' enabled hlui to go on the witness stand
and confess two murders and the plan
, lung of at least two more. In this he
U'ti. tint u'hotlt ..... .......it.. 1 If. ...
not prevent the mottled flush whlrhi
crept
up Into his face, the glistening of
his eyes, nor his body from swavlnir !
rliKhtly as Koremati Robert Nelll sol
emnly announced the decision of the
,ua1i h h -i ll.i.in n. V. ... V. I .... . . . I 1
mini.
T" minutes later, however, he had
recovor.d Mmet. lie whistled anil!
nummeii a snatch of a sonic as he crossed I
the llrhlge of Sighs to his cell.
lleaily to tio to Chair.
"I don't see what In hell kept them
so long." he exclaimed. "I could have
decided It In fifteen minutes. The whole
thing was a farce. The trial ought not
to have lasted more than an hour alto
gether." loiter he said the verdict was
Just and that he was prepared to accept
the consequences without a murmur.
He was ready to go to the electric chair
any moment, he said
The Jurors retired at 1 21
r. , i.h
r M , With
commented on the evidence at all It was'
believed by maii In the court room that
nm pvnniiiifiini nr in li.w Mini umni. :
ished the defence of "moral idiocy." "the
T$; UrTl the
defence; T ne.mVr" that nor SdH
r'llr
a mnnTh" only test he s Id '
w"u,dabe"X ll?;. denul Um o' f'a e
nt in.n,,-. nn ,h i
f,;d Vppr'encir5,he na'turnT" ,X
hi. o, n.,.i t.i ho h. .1... i.
was wrong? If he had known that he
bought arsenic as arsenic, that It would I
likely kill Mr. Peck and that he might
be apprehended then he knew the na
ture, q,uallty nd consequences of his
deed."
Wife Hidden lnm View,
...
mc wnirri worn tnai me jury w.m f
rmny came at -m-. wnen an attenaani
r.inu iron, inn rorriiiiir ouixirif' thr i
Jury room and nodded to ( ierk llllam
N. Penney, who straightway Informed
'h Jtlce. Heorge N. Hrothers and ,
John T. Pooling, the Assistant District
Attorneys who conducted the prosecu
tion, came from the Justice's chamlers.
Walter N. Deuel appeared from the
MINE OWNER IS HELD
IN MAIL FRAUD CASE
Smith Rnicey of Raltimnre. j
Rnilrond Rnilder, Paroled
for Hcarinjr.
Smith riracey, a railroad builder nnd
m'ne owner of Haltlmore. was arraigned
before I'nited Slates Commissioner j
Houghton yesterday on a warrant can- an operation by Dr. W. J. Mayo and
lng for hl removal to Haltlmore, where. pr- c. II. Mayo of Itocheeter, Minn., Dr
aecordlns to Assistant United States At- j, s. GUllllan of St. Paul, the Hill fam
tomey Udwln .M Slanton, Iiraccy has , ny physician, assisting.
Just been Indicted with several others
for nslnc the mills to defraud Com
missioner Houghton paroled Hracey In
custody of his attorney, Frederick H.
Dolth, until June when he will have
a hearing. The fraud charge Is said
to Involve more than fion.finft
llr.i'ey Is staying at the Nevada, at
;o:r, Ilrnndway. with his wife, lie was
arrested 1-rlday- night and taken to me
West Sixty-eighth street police station.
"A .l"-,.,..L ,h:.. h,:lhillhn Z
V.3"'. "-""'T.'.r ..,?.."" ;":...
Haltlmore. a $2, 000, Dim concern formed
to operate lhe Howie Oold Mine In Union
County. N. C The mine, according to
Hracey's attorney, was In operation be
fore the civil war and furnished gold
for the confederate mint. There has
peen tiuii.utiii wiiriu in itic i.,ii,. .
of the operating company subscribed
been 1100jnO worth or the capital siock
Uracey-s son-in-iaw, i nanes iu.ick-
burn, and Charles 11 Wyatt. secretary
..r .h minim. e.nnnv. were arrested
of the mining company
In Haltlmore.
HAi.-riMoni:, May 27. Tnlted States
Attorney Dennis declared bernro Tnlted
States Commissioner lionit to-uay mat
In tho arrest or the officials or the Howie
Mlnln f i.'nmpany the Covcrnment had
uncovered a great fraud and lie there
fnrn asked that Charles Warkhurn. son-
In-law or President Mrncey of the Howie
company, arresten in .ew- iora, una
Charles 11 Wyatt. both of whom are
held here, be held In 10.000 and Jf.,000
ball respectively
According to Mr. Dennis '
, was described as belnir worth J2,0nn,fluo
. ,..i,l mail nnrehaseri for S300.000. As a
' matter of fact, he says, It was bought
ror $30,000 and Is under mortgage.
Jbulgars take greek forts.
' Cross, Fronller anil Order Hellenic
i fiarrlsous to Leave,
Paius, May ".'7. IlulBarl.in troops hnve
i advanced Into Creek territory .and oc
cupied three Greek forti), according to a
M.i vim despatch received here to-day
i from Salonlcii.
, It In Hinted that a Hulgarlan reelmtnt
I at noon yesterday enteied Fort Itoupel,
' on the Btrumn, north or Demlr IllsNar,
i after the Ureek commander had been
given two hours to leave with Ills force.
The regiment then ndvanced and oc
cupied KortH Knnlvonnd Hragotln, which
i were built by tho Creeks at the close,
I of Hie last Halkau war.
Artillery duels of great vigor took
place along tho entire Macedonian front
I yesterday The town of Klllndlr was
ilesttoyiil by the Oerman fire, The Hul
gatinii I'limp nt Petrlt'ii wiih bombarded
by brelnh aeroplane--,
I.Al'ltKI. IIOTSK. I.AKRWOO0.
Optn until lunc, Meal motor run. i(v.
name direction ami those allowed inside.
I;r,oXrrOUrUceV.en(,am !ct,,cd nuuly
During the morning Clam I,oule Peck
Walte. who hereafter will not be known
by her husband s name, came through
a side door anil took a place behind
the Jury box. This time the wife did
not sit where she could ece Into the
yi'uii nim, mu remained concealed ne-
h nil the hlrh tL,r.i l.nek ih. i.nv.
her face concealed l.v her Ida 7k hu
anil neavy veil. i
Percy Peck, the brother, sat across
the room where he has sat all during
the trial, where he could loo!
directly
into tne eyes of the defendant
Hack a little to the side eat three men
for whom All In the court had sympa
thetlo stances. They were the fattier
and brothers of the man whose fate
was scaieil, No one could sneak to
them kwhen
little later the father
M"SK"'.rt oul ?" Ihr ""'' of I''1 r0"'"- I
1 " nat. "
ne murmur"' M heart Is broken.
"(iullty as hareil."
Tf U 1 . all Va,i .nLn.H . V. . . 1 I,....
-j .r...n m JUIj
cnm ,n tl' moment. The faces of
the twelve were set and determined.
nere were no sign- of dissension, nolh
lng of the rumpled appearance that I
t?lls of Jury argument
They took their places, and a moment
later only a few of them turned tn ui.
I the defendant brought In by the depu- .
j tlr.. The others stared straight ahead. ,
i "Oentlemen of the Jury, have ou
agreed upon a verdict" asked Clerk,
I Penney. Mr, Nelll nodded and the
j twelve arose. j
"lientlemen of the Jury, what say you. '
! do you tlnd the defendant guilty" or
I not guilty of the crime for which he
WJ" charged 7
"llMlllv l, ,n.,. ..-.I ...
Vn.. ,.'. tnr.. ......
the' Vur' ' . rV; . vv"
. . - .z r. v . -- '
S, Z"t t 'X
!-rHlL,,;i-'r1"i:i
43",X "Z It' ?l
in K lii'd e- 's",;,
,h,,t ,,"rrn,H wrr- 1,0" ' "u'-
'J??. 'Y,? "
"'' write and was a dentist. He was
h-e r bXTU co Y oT
had never before been convicted of a
defuses In Ser Father.
That being recorded, Justice Shearn 1 the hank. It would not be surprising If men! foi over one e..i without a sp..
announced . "Itemanded for sentence un- trom.. pressure wi re brought to bear on . ial permit.
t til June i. wnien is inursnay. I
mat enoeii tne nay. wane was hur- ,
Mfa iron' uw r,,om- Jurors were
pernmmi i tfi uu inifita m wie t rowu .
ina me dumiiib in inn court mnm nan
.ih iim riirain "Juki unai wax ex
iiected.
Walte would not 'ee his father after
the verdict. When he reached the ToinbK :
his first act was to have himself taken
lo nis cen, wneie ne ornerio lonee anil
Confinued on Seventh Page,
J.J. HILL OPERATED ON;
CONDITION SERIOUS
Miiyos. Famed Surgeons.
Rushed to Home by Special
Train With Nurses.
St. PAi't., May 17. The condition of
James J. Hill, railroad builder, was pro -
ounced to-night as serious, following
The operation was performed at the
residence of the "Umpire) Huilder" In
n bulletin made public after the opera-
lion it was announced that Mr Hill
was suffering from an Infection of the
thigh,
"It Is serious at bin npc." the iinlieiio
lead. "He ,s helm rnrefiillv iv,.teh..,i
The Infection was opened and drained
,. .hroiiL-h in., nn.niio,, ,,i-,.i..
, rPStlnB (iut.ty," "
This was the first Intimation rrom
official sources that the condition of
Mr. Hill was serious. The operation
followed a trip by the Drs, Mayo
from Hochester to St Paul In n special
train, for which the tracks wete open
all the way. The train reached St. Paul
at 3 P M. The two famous surgeons,
nccompariled by n corps of nurses, were
aken In automobiles to the Hill resl-
j , h immiatPlv nrenued
fJ . H,' r " immediately Prepaud
. .
l.ouis v, mu, a son, Miss Clara Hill.
a daughter, and Ceorge T Slade. a eon-
In-law, were uniting for the plivwlclans.
An operating table was obtained from
a St. Paul hospital Mr. Hill was placed
on this about 3 LlO and the atuestlietlc ad
ministered. Tlie surgeons were familiar with his
condition from a thorough examination
the previous day and there was no delay.
Hvery precaution was taken to prevent
poisoning.
The patient wns nn the operating tahle
for about twenty-rlve minutes. Follow
1 lng tho operation he wns moved to his
bed, tho room was darkened and all
i fforts were made to secure quiet. i 10 nave uisim. ast u v. oinjiiruiier vv tniams, tiiouth. nolhwithslandiiig that the em-
ArchblHliop Ireland later called at the 71"" y"''M 'U'P'ars to meet almost plnyees had already accepted all wages
residence. Ho remained only a rew , ""l"'-1 "I'Proval In Washington. Theii'rom 111" first to the thirteenth
minutes, expressing his sympathy tn 1 l'"'''ls Jtmed the street in front "The Atnerlcatw think that the time
members of the family, offering his th" ,!lwlk a"" 'Wh approaching ,.,s come when they should ha advised
Kenices and expressing the hope that l" ,lMnlt 'rr" . ":,!"' "I1 "f leadtng dellultely or the ntlilude or their Cov
Mr. Hill would speedily recover. Ibuslnesa ami proresslonal men or the city, , eminent with respect to the decrees re-
Six or Mr, IIIITs children and his wife1',
were present nt the
residence during the
re: l.ouis W. Mill,
operation. They were
Walter Mill. Miss Clara Mill. Mrs.
Ceorge T, Slade, Mrs. ICmll Hneckmann
and Mrs. Mlchnel llavlli. James N.
Mill of Now York, another son. and Mr.
Ham Hill of the State of Washington, a
d lighter, had been summoned to the bed
side, and they started nn tho trip to St.
Paul yesterday.
Soon after the operation was over
Dts. Mayo returned to llochester In a
special tialn over the i rent Western.
Neither surgeon would discuss the condi
tion of Mr. Hill, referring all Inquirers
to Dr. Ollflllan, ns tho surgeon In charge.
Mr. Mill's health has not been normal
since ho returned In March from his
winter hii'iio on Jckvll Island, Ha. Me
haft been III since May If!
I'AIN'H I Htr.WOItKS.
Hsaiun'i ('ataloiiue now ra4j-.
U Park Tlace,
rerw v or. a tec.
RIGGS BANKERS ARE !
FOUND NOT GUILTY
i.lury's Verdict, Reached in
N,np Minutes, Causes Joy j
In Washington.
CROWDS CHEER AT RANK
Treasury Employees Join in ;
Demonstration Flag Raised
to Convey News.
wash mitom, Mav 27 Alter oe-
...... . . . . .. ......
'- " ,no '
,'"pi"i in n irnun m nm huh,., ..-
afternoon In the trial of President
Charles C. Clover. Vice-President Will
lam II. Plnther and is-fashler M. H.
Plainer of the Hlucs National Hank,
who wire helm? prweouted by the (!ov
ernment on the charce of perjurj'-
Comptroller Wiltlam had been de-
pendlns chleMy on thece crlmlna' pro-
eecdlnc. to vindicate his course toward
v,.,.., ,
the Itlggs National Hank and to open , lnK ' " eomuieratloti .
the way for a refusal by him to renew "That It has become practical tm
the charter of that Institution under possible for an American to do buMtiesi
the national banking act. of an' nature in this section of the ooun-
l'or almost a year the legal battle try hecaufe of lestrlctions placed by tl'e
between the Ulcus bank ofllclitls and ! authorities that we heliexe to be d'-
Comptroller Williams and Secretary Mc-
Adoo ha been going oil, the otllcer of
the bank having gone to the courts
to obtain an Injunction ngaln-t the
Treasury otllci.ils who, they charted,
were consnlrlnc to wreck the Institution.
The criminal proceedings grew out of
the civil caee and were based n charges
that oltleers of the Itlggs bank had
Kworn falsely to an atlMavit deny lng
iluit the bank had
been engaged In
st,ick transactions.
i:ffrrl f thr Vrrilli'l.
I..r many month, tlic l,v..-.ton m t ti
i t c.i h.i ltri hfA tm and ItiSkd
bank o.llc.al, have cvnpla.ne.1 b.tterly
.... ti
on this score N explanation ha been
aiven as to why the decision In the In
junction suit has been delayed m long,
I but the belief expressed l Washington
to-night Is that the amultlal of the
tiflt, ers on the criminal rharge w.ll brlrc
a quick deoton In the civil i-.ie and
foreshadows a curtailment of Ounp
lioller Williams's allesisl a-tlvnies in
pursuing the oilier of this bank.
In fact expressions of dissatisfaction
with the Comptroller's course were heard
on all side among Influential Democrats'
to-day and some Senators went so far as
to say that the President already had
fiiltoil hilt rtn Mr Willi;, mu'u itlt.'i.'lt nil
the Administration to ak for the Comp-'
troller's reslsnatlon.
jt jia jlfon tn(, onntntlon of tho
rjags Ijank offlelaN that Comptroller
Williams wan perfwutlnc thvn partly
ti.i. k-..
.Rested that he was practically forced
.., n ti, .n...v-r.i ... n,.,
.,r I.!,. p.altroad and his place was
taken by Milton 11 Alles, vice-president
of tne Klggs National Hank
It h.s been charged by the Treasury
olllclalu that ofllcers of the Klggs hank
were I 's'livislblc for newsp-iper s'.orles
n-'a k.Mg Secretary McAdoo and Comp
tri 'ler Wll'.am and as a reult 'be of f I-
'ers of the bank nnd the high Treasury
off I -ial have been
a long time.
swords- points for .
The announcement of the u-n.uttt.il
was received with a remarkable demon
stration of approval by crowds In dlf
fetent parts of the city.
When the foreman of the Jury an-noun-ed
'he verdict the bailiffs could no'
preve-it a rush of spectators to the three
defendants. The Jury also crowded
around the bankers and shook their
hands,
When Mr Clover emerged from the
, ourt room he was greeted by a roar of
j applause from the crowd that had been
w-altln? sn-e court convened nnd It was
1 " lth lffl1cu,,t" that he made his way
mo.X1.''' n'"1 ' tlw Fla,h'r n n
The most Interesting part of this
drama of politics and tlnar.ee took place
n another pint of the city, the scene
being In front of the Itlggs Natorn
Hank, directly ncroe- from the Tn'ted
States Treasury Department.
Customers, depositors ami friends of
"u bank had bien told that if the vcr.
'Net was acquittal a new American flag
''"tild be run up on the fl.igst.nr of the
bank Soon after 11 o'clock the crowd
1 began lo gatlur for news nnd by noon it
was necessary fir additional isillcemen
. l" "e calleq to Keep traffic moving. A
little later It was announced Hint a ver.
! "Mel had been reache.l autl Intense qUet
, Pi 'vailed,
Ting Gives the rm,
The base or th flagstalT Is ohsciired
,a ,hr".,".,'.,r "",'U'';i ''"''"'"'V
there shot up the pole the niw Amerl -
inn flag and It was greet, , wlih c-icers
that could be heard f.ir blocks.
The north or main rroni or Hie Tieiis.
"T "'inB tares tne Itlggs National
(nk nm, pvfry w,n(Inw ;1 ,.,. ,,,
m.i ...tali- en..n..i, iit..i,
," ,; , ,," i . ,
, ' c " '"'.,,,.,.,,,, , ,,,
proval when Mr. Clover and the Mesns
Klather reached the bank from the court
house,
As they stepped ftom the nutomoblle
to grasp the liundteds of hands that
vveie extended to them the occupants
of the Treasury windows fttinUivillv
I nairnae-miicis and cheered. The
,fmVl' '.. r' , ' t"ijll aiiKw.rMl and it
waved handkerchiefs and cheered. The
i ' , , titmitiws
I wete vacated and the crowds left
the
street In front or the bank, The dem-1 thotitles sent him an amende,! order re
onstratlnn or -avpiovnl given by the I quiring him lo pay the wages, as fixed
' '"""," '' '? ' oi iciais is said
" J'"' snown in
,,nv" reU?'1 11 ;"" nlscernlblo
"lat no "lcr vrriict hl" "cqulttal was
A.. . .
Tho bank olllclals Insisted on nn early
trial of the criminal case, aa Coinpirollei
Williams, whom they accuse of petisecu -
Hon, had practically announced that he
would not renew the charter of the bank
when It expires on June i:?, alleging that
tho character of lis olllclals was not
surh as to Justify him In lining a
charter to tho bank.
Olllclals of the bank declined tn discuss
this phase of the qiirtdlon this aHei
noon except tn say that If the Comp.
I roller declined to Issue tho charter nr-
rangementH would ha Immediately made
fr,r the bank to continue under a Mini,
charter.
Comptroller or the Currency Williams
said: "I have no comment to make on
tin outcome or tho trial.
The Jury was locked up during th
entire trial
U. S. CITIZENS IN
MEXICO WIRE PLEA
Property Confiscated: Owners
Imprisoned. Is Message
From Tatnpico.
ASK PRESIDENT FOR AID
Americans Rehel at Decrees'
and Demand Protection
hy the F. S.
T,. , ,,., ... , ,.
. Hl received from tared... Tel.,
"' IHrr.m from the American
- ...... ..,- ,-, i.mcii
to lie it ropi of it imte.t rnl lij
lre to I'rrslilmt ll.oii. It refers tu a
mrrllnc lirl.l t Twmpii on May St. It
Is not known whether the trletram h
lieen rereittil ( (lie U lilte llne or how
It rraiheri thr border, following I. the
tet of the trleiranu
The uuilei.4,.tlei
re-dlmc n Tampi .
Alllel iralt itlzen.i
M ma. :reettr.R as-
sembled. respectfully Mihrnl: the follow -
reeled primarily against American cltl- (
ens
"t-r a year a series of decrees have I
made their appearance, which haxe been
. . 1
l'"Kres.. In that they ate consistently;
N-cotnlng more anti-American.
Wo
be
lieve that th.- authorities had not the
n inoiej.! Idea, when they llrst N-g.m
to Issue suih decrees, that they would
be able to enforce them, but thm when
nothing was done by nur ilovernmetit
to secure their iejie.il these edicts ha
b en made more ft i Intent e.uh day.
until now our property l.s threatened
with confiscation, and .n some e.itvs
ha been actually contl.M,ed. a. d our
'1'sonal lllier.;.' Is tuin.im!
I'ersepiitlnns I'hnrueil.
"A military decree was issued some
monih .iK'i providing that lands might
not be le.isd in the state of Vera Cruz
for ci. I purposes without the lonsent of
the Slate Co eminent, ami this decree
has been modified until now no foreigner
s permitted to acquire leases, real es
tate or assignments of leases from a
native.
"In this stat,. an American may no!
acquire real esta e nor may he lease
land from a Mexl.-an, nor will he even
lie nerlnilte.l In lease ; halite .,r nn.irl
"The military government of thl
Stale has InstnKted the stamp office not
to tsw cr!ncHte of tr.in.for whrr
one American bHh
to another, and the '
ii eertifv to the si..
unruly lo tne si--
y in any contract or
Oovernor rt-fu-s to
.i.. i
other Instrutn-nt In which an American
i- m... .. .ui. i ..
nrevent Americans from rai.sf.rr.nc
their pro-perty to other foreigners
"A decree was issued a few days ng,
by the local military authorties provid
lng that labor should be paid and mr
rhandlse sJioul I be sold on a bas.s of
.Mexican gn.il, me eonsiueraiioii 10 oe
o...,l , Mex,.:. i,.,l,.,r n.nnev :.t m '
. .. . . ..iM..e 1 1, en lie 1111
..rl.llr.irv value llveil liv lhe I lov-erntoent. !
regardless ..f the conimereial value of
lltid 11 itvor rii.Hli'V nu rcL'llt.ltil hv tftlfitllv 1
and demand
"Night befote last an American c.m
2en was arrested because he refused
age greatly
that afternoon to pay a
in excess of that agreed upon between
hims.lt and b.s laborers He was ar
tested on a verbal order and detained In
prison for three hours
Wnitri Tlli-il hy Ueeree.
1. a eonferenre held with the military
authorities yesterday In the presence of
the American consul the authorities
made the following statements
"I I) That the American had been
arrested In cause he hail failed to pay v
wage lived bv a decree that had not
bei n published, and which
was not
Known to Is- 111 existence t
"iC) That the militatv anihontie.
are supreme In al, matt-is affecting
wages and other contractual niatlons,
and that such authorities may arbitrarily,
, fix any wage that they see fit.
"!") That the American In question'
lean in question
pay his men for
vviiLvi. provided
P,,'fr,rr ,, 'T
would be eompelln! to
the previous vve,k the
for In the d-ctee ahov
. hav it.g been foi mul.i'ecl by the authorl
ties hut no' yet publisher!
"ill Thai If Americans did not eon
sent In the finiiie to pay such wanes
they would be compelled to close their
places of business, even though they
might be able to enter into an agreement
with laboters al a bsser wage.
' niter r tin II M.-le...
i
I ' ' "" That tin' iMiltarv -tut horltles might
I arb.trarlly Imprison A-reili-an ror vlo-
1 latlon or this decree anil that the pet-
son anoMltig t'.em woiini not ne minor
the obligation or presenting an order of
arrest to tne man ininmeu.
(ID That the alternative for Amen-I
cans who did not leeognl.e the validity!
of th' decree In question would be to
leave Mexico,
"Th authorities derided that the I
American nrrusletl would have to pay tho
wage,, of his employees from the fifteenth
Instant, In accordance with the schedule
fixed In the decrees refeired lo, altluvigh
he was not advised of the .xlsteiic of
tlxed In the decrees refeired to, altluvigh
stieil net-,..- ...tti. j.-f- ,n,- i.ii-ni
ilrst. T lis moru tig tne m 11 larv mi.
t,y the decree, noin Hie llrat of this
r,.rred to nnove, ami similar legislation
The principle Involved Is too oln lous to
, ,ertt discussion. Tne question Is
' W 111 l II r Hie piitpeii .. .lllli-l 11. ins mil)
,c dlrcctH- or Indirectly counselled liv
I decree, anil whether Americans mav be
1 n,-hltarar'ly imprisoned by the military
authorities
Sliilr Case lei the T. S.
"We refute in discuss with the an
thotitles collateral matters that are ie.
signed to obscure the principle at Issue;
we will merely stale lo our Cnverniuent
that now, as In lhe past hllory or Mex
ico, the American Is the employer that
1 pays lb" highest wages; consideration
of the scale of vvaues obtaining here, as
compared with that In the Interior or
Mexico, where no Mnerleans remain, as
. well " ' Invesllgat on or tho wages
paid by the present Clov ernmrnt and tho
Co ill In tied on S(xf,i Pagr,
WILSON URGES A WORLD
PEACE ALLIANCE WITH
AMERICA AS PARTNER
President Wilson Outlines Two Ways
Of Bringing About Peace Among Nations
If it should ever lie our privilege to suggest or initiate n move
ment for pence among the tuitions now at war I am sure that the
people of the United States would wish their Government to movo
ulong these lines:
First, such u settlement with regard to their own immediate in
terests ns the belligerent may agree upon. Wc hnve nothing material
of any kind to ask for ourselves and are quite aware that we are in no
sense or degree parties to the present iquarrel. Our interest is only
in peace and its future guarantees.
Second, a universal association of the nations to maintain the
inviolate security of the highway of the seas for the common and un
hindered use of all the nations of the world and to prevent any war
begun either contrary to treaty covenants or without warning and
full submission of the causes to the opinion of the world n virtual
guarantee of territorial integrity
GARDNER ATTACKS '
BERLIN PEACE PLAN
Utilise Resolution Condemns
Efforts to Embroil V. S.
With the Allies."
I.AI'DS FRENCH AND IRISH
ashinoton, M.iv - in the midst
or tne iiiscuss'.on ot tne possinnmes or i
p. ace w men s engaging ninny memoers
of Congress a belligerent note was
sounded to-day by llepresentatlve Hard-
per of M.issnehusett He inttoduced a
resolution designed, as he s;,,i. to pre.
vent the I'nited Mate-- fr.nn iieiom ng
involved In any (brmati plan for the
premature ending of the war.
, The .locumeni is a Irani. ne.-i.ir.uon
in favor of the A.lles. and lefen to the
alleged peace overtures coming f mm .
i:.'t-ii,in as a "struggle to escape the I
. . i t. .. i,,,ii, I
' V " .
The resolution, condemning nil efforts
to embroil the t inted .-tales with tne
' Vllles. I In nan as fol'.ow.i :
i ,. . , . .i ...., .i ,i,
rj.ii"i, 1 ,
I tilted States heartily congratulates
France and her allies on the success
,rn!cli 'I so certnln In the near future
. , i -n .
t ,.rrmn th,r superb efforts .
, e t ,ui..,l
"T"" 1 .. ,
States expresses its heartfe.t iiiltmrailini
t the luo.t'iin Irishmen who are now
i,e.n.'.illv serving the i-aile of tneir
! country and of eivllljiation In the
itietiches In Prance and lle'.gium .
"Tint the Crngres of the t'ndeil
I States would view with appt eheiislon
and premature ';'
. , , ... .1. .,,1,1 l..
which would encourage the wol d to be-
lleVC that nations ni.IV
wiih Impunity
v;l;'te every
"That lb..
law of Cod or man .
Congress of the I'nited
mierlv condemns nil efforts, no
matter how plausible the disgul-e. vvhiih
..... .leslirned for the purpose ot embtnll-
lng the Tnlted States with Tiiiu.e. Creat
Illltain in anv one in im-n .......
llepresentatlve Caidnef explaining
his action to-day. said
"1 have introduced this lesolnlion be.
cause 1 believe It Is about time to i all
attention lo the reisons for the great
growth or the peare at any pi Ire party
in Cermany. Nothing imild be mote
harmful for the future securltv of Hie
world than for the Tnlted States lo be
i otiie an m complice of Cermany '
struggle to i s. ape the penalty of her
1 1 line against humanity"
FAILS IN RACE TO DIE HERE,
Kdv.aril I . smith, I'lillnnlliroplst.
strlcUen In WitshliiBl.in.
Wasiuxiito.s. Mav -. - l.tlwaril I
u mi.r0h.,nl.
"j" ",:r;pn'.1(.lt s,r0t. New York .,y.
' r' "r" , . J ..ulwe" , ;,..
T . nn Station h to-da, ,
Mr Smith contracted pneumonia m ,
Jacksonville. Kb. He was mid he. counl I ty.y Ql'J.STlOX (WHAM).
nut live. He deslied to die nt home, so.
h,s special car was attached ,,, the fast-j Stimlntmtrmtluu ,,.,,,,. ,
est express train of the Atlantic I oast i
I,!,,,.. Alillieiltlclly of llileiilen.
Mr. Smith was accompmled by lis v AsillsuroN, .Mav The Mate He
brother. .1 T Smith, and coii.n Mr- i ,,,,,, IM. llMllH lllM1,iri,.s of Tinted
.1 T Smith, and Dr Minimis l.lell "fitslalt. Ambusnador Ceiard at Itcrlln for
Jacksonville The body wis sent ' i et tllcat Ion or denial of an Interview
New Yolk to-night utiiibuted to him in a Munich news-
.... I paper on the subject or peace and cabled
IMward C .-smith was a retired whole.,., ..... ..mmtrv to-day rrom Hetlln
salt canny tieuier ne .ts ....rii itn.i .
reared III the palish or old St Peter'a I
Church. IS II irelay street Several years
ago Mr. Smith and his brothels give
jr.u.oon for the renovation of the church
He was a generous rrlentl of the Cancer
Hospital nnd many other charities,
Mr. Smith was made a Knight or the
Order of St Cregory the Croat by tho
late Pope Plus .. The title was con
ferred on May US, Kill, on the recom
mendation or Cvrdltial Parley In reco.
nltloti or Mr Smith's generosity.
Mr Smith conducted tils charities on
such quiet lines that It was Willi dllll
cully the Cardinal got the Tacts
LAMAR BEGINS PRISON TERM.
Taken to I'f nltcnllar) aa Seinn as
He Itrnrue tlanla,
Atlanta, Ca., May 'J7 -Divld Kumar
arrived here to-night riom New York In
charge or a Deputy Tn ted States Mar
shal. He vv.ih at once taken to the Fed
eral penitentiary to beg.n serving a teim
or two yenis for Impersonating a Con
giessman over the telephone
Kumar was handcuffed tn t i,. deputy
when lhe two stepped rrom Hie train
They entered an automobile and wete
driven to th" pribon. lCttorts to get
l.amar to tiilk fulled The deputy mar
shal said be was glad In be rid of
l.amar, but did not say why. Kamar
will be given a number and assigned to
work to-morrow
.IiiiIki- IHdn'l Ivnon It Was Loaded,
YoNKKtts, May 27. A bullet from an
air rifle In tin' hands or Judge Joseph
M Heall in th" City Court room to-day
grimed the bend or a woman client of the
Judge. I lie rnie i.nu oeen laiieti iroiu
... ii.-.a..... Tn.ln Ha.. It i.
S know U vva, TO . ' ilmai,
left the court room hurriedly,
and political independence.
GERARD QUOTED AS
SEEING PEACE NEAR
Wny Clenr for Wilson to Act,
Is Keynote of (Jerman
Interview.
AITHKXTICITY DO CRT ED
Via.' rt.i, nrip,,tcf, tn Tnr. Six.
ihbus. via London. May 17. In an
interview in the .If iiritcninn- Zrltuuii
James W. Cerard. American Ambassador
to ilermany. Is quoted as saying that lie
b. lieves th.it peace l.s near at hand
The settlement of the submarine lsne
between Oermany and the Cnlted Slates
, icars the way for President Wilson to
take up the question of ix-ace, m the
opm.on of the- Anibas .nlnr He Is quoted
, siylng that the I'nited States Is nou
w llllng to lake action toward securing
peace. Tile Ambassador believes that pi
'lie l.elllgeinnt countries there Is a grow
""t demand for peace. Concerning the
p,.,Vl.nt relatione, of (ieriuany and the
I nlte.l Mates he Is quoted as saying
' hudly know from what quarter
'he present good relations between the
I tilled Mates ,,nd Ceiinalis ciiilid be
,MUrh erl The e.stabllshment of good
relations with Herman) Is one of th
I nm-t Important factors of the .llplotnatic
I situation now confronting the I tilled
sit-.tes"
''.' "
In giving his opinions concerning
leai'e nnd the relation of the I'nlled
State tu bringing about negotiations he
1- quoted as saying:
"It is useless to discuss at this mo
dem Wilson s mediation In desirable
..r probable. In this iitnnce facts alone
will speak, and one of the most Im
portant facts is that the Jioutruls are
piobably an much Interested In bring
ing about an early peace as the be.
I.gerentc. America urgently needs peace
and tor this reason alone the Atmrtcnn
Coveuiinenl Is under an obligation to
its cili7etie to do and support every
ii.inil that stives the cause of peace.
A r.ni of chief important e is that my
Con ri.niciit 's real!) willin.- to take ac
tion 'for the promotion of peace,
I am very ojitltnl-tlc regarding the
progresi a'ren.ly made by the Idea that
the a.iv should lie ended, even among the
belligerent nations The wl-e and
moderate words of the Cerm.ui Chan-
,-,. regai.ll.ig '.crmany s readiness t , , ,,,, , ',,.., , "
make peace had probably their strongest ,,.,, lnlr,u llt,,l politlca Indepen 1-c-hti
In Ami ilea nnd stitiigtlicned the vnf, ' 1
..tipressiou that .jet many will Hike all i .., , ,,,
further Heps calmly nnd with confidence ,.. , llM.u jh ,,.,.,, .. a()ded
"When another slip will be taken ami i MlP .r,ent in . con Hiding icmarks
what shape Mr further development or ,. Il,,r lU ,(, .(U,W oron,, an(,
the pe.ee Idea It will Hike I not titar. give expieslon t.. the conlldetic. 1 reel
At any rate 1 am convinced Hint mv . ,,at the world Is even now upon the
Covcrnment will leave nothing undone ; f cr,.nt cotivumm.itlon. w hen some
to suniort with all lit. p.m.i peace , common force will be brought nlo ex
iiiiHemenls ftom whatever ... they istence wh.. I, sua , salci,u.u,l right "
although weel,, ... i.tanihs
may elapse be.ore th, tl,. takes,
tangible form n .thing can shake nn con-'
"den -e that , Is on the w.n
IJven althnugli weel, mjiiilis
In tlie illisenen of nnv emilli milt ion .if
the interview I mm Mr Ccmid olllclals
of the State Department sre not Inoiued
to comment, but strong doubts are ex-
ptcssi'd as to Hu authenticity n s )r
gnrtletl as partlisilirly unlikely that Mr.
Ceraitl should have expressed the
opinion that "the wise and moderate
winds of the Cermau Chancellor legard
lug Cermany h readiness to make peace
had probably their strongest echo In
America and strengthen the Impression
that Cermany will take all further steps
calmly Hnd with ronlnlence "
Tho whole Interview, It Is pointed nut,
hue, Is oiio with h would hardly be ;lven
out by a diplomat, enieciully In view of
the extiemely delicate situation now
existing with rerprct to the wnole ques.
lion of peace
GERMANS MUST EAT LESS.
Supplies of Tattle anil Plus De
cline ..Vol Ton XI n n Potatoes,
fiptrial CaMt liftrmteh to Tnr Sis
AMHTKitPAM, May 27 - In the course
of a debate In the Helclislag on the food
question Unroll von Stein, Under Secre.
lary of State, emphasized the fact that
theie Is n sufficient quantity, but not an
excess, of potatoes,
Ho leported, fiiCordlng lo Ilerllli ties
patt lies, that cattle has declined 25 per
cent, since December, 1915 j pigs 21 per
cent Tor the near futilte, h added, the
greatest possibly restriction of consump
tion Ih necessary.
A member pointed out that Cermany
possessed 3.1)110,000 less head of cattle
than ti year ago and that a scarcity
would prevail In the very near future
TIIRorr.ll KI.KPPKIl TO KnillKSTKR
"" . a I I Liv Hall Ultaii
' i ..... u Wct St lrfV. Miba I M
I tyt-l Vm! .Wfi
' Vrrlvti Itocbxttr in A. M staV
President Advocates a De
parture From Old Policy
of Aloofness.
SPFFCII KKtiAKDKI) AS
.MEDIATION "KFFXFir
He Indicates Steps People
Want if the Chance
Conies.
FKKKDOJI OF SKAS
IS INSISTED UPON
AI.mi (inarantees for the
Sovereignty of Small
Nations.
WASltl.sr.-rnN-, May :7 Ptesldetit Wll
son In a speech to-night before th
League to llnforce Peace outlined In
gmeral terms the basis on which the
Tinted States would undettake to sug
gest or Initiate a movement for peace In
lollop.-
Coming from the man to whom the en
tile vvoidl has begun to tuiii fur the Mist
dctlnlti step in the interest of peace, the
Pris,,ient' addtess made a piofound Im
pies ion on Ms nudiemc Although Mr
Wilson did not ixpiess a w.ll.ngiuss at
this time t,, tern his offers of mediation
to the Pmvris at war, his addtiss Is gen
erally believed to have been pirp.ne.l
with a view to its effect In Hurnpeati cap
ltal In many quarters here it Is rt
garded as an open "fci ler.'-
The most Important pan of the ad
dress appealed In the closing paragraph
Amid an Intense Intenst mi tin part or
his hearers the President sketched lhe.
course wh.eh. h,. declaied. he believed
the people of the Tnilcd States woull
aunt tilt ir l.oveinment to follow
Vnierlenii t f It
Ill the first pi lie. he .u,l. lhe I .-n
States would have no ,..n.,rn ai.oiii Hi
terms which the belligi tents might agree
Upon for a settlement of their tunned alt
Interests. Having no pan tts.-lf in the
wnt. he satd. the T tilt ft. 1 .St.ltt's. ll.lM lilt
" " nuns to satlsty I lie.pi into In
1 ','r,'!" "' Hie Tinted State", lie set forth,
was merely ror piac,. and its guarantee
no me iiiitire
In the second place, the President said
with vvhai was tf carded by Ii s auili.nt..
as a direct referent e to the coiilrov ers.
which have developed between this conn
tty and tin belligerents in the submarine
and blockade Issues, the 1'nttid Mates
will want to s. . treated a universal as
sociation a'lini j lhe nation.. ,,r the world
to keep inv.t l.i-e the principle of the
fleedom or lhe se.ls
Turtheriiiiire. h, declainl the Tn't. 1
States would want to see such an a
soclatlon iiealetl "to pievent any h.i
begun tithei contrary to treaty cov
enants of without warning and full sub
I tlllMoioM .If t l,i. . -...L.. ... .1... ........ ..a
the first anil hu m tuiid.iliieiit.il Inter
est or all peoples and all governments,
when coercion shall l. summoned no
lo the service ot political ambition or
selri"h hostility hui lo the service of
a commim older, a common Justice ami
a common peace Cod grant that the
dawn or that day or frank dealing ami
of settled peace, rourord and coopera
tion mav b near at hand '
c
of Policy.
- a radical change
t I hit II ne
Marking Ms
in the 1 1 .id,t uf .. . poiiev .if iiloornese
which the Tnlted "U.i'es has adapted to
ward the natn.i ,.r l'ur.e n tespc
to "entangling alii. in. i' ' 'is pioposiil
I "" tile l OUCH Mine. slit. II .1 lie a part
I 1,1 ""s PiJeeted l.-..e.,e of nations
, V Pretetl bv I,,.- h. .,i.r, -n.-. r,
""' 1 ""ind
re.nlv for tne future to P. low ai tlit
weight of Its fin e phvscil a aell as
moral, behltel a .omul if ui t t ma n
tain peace
Thai the spee n wnl ii-a'e wnieipread
discussion in tie. I Itu itpca ti war cap
tals is regarded as certain In xi f
the recent ui'.eian t Chancel
lor Von Hi'tbiiiatiii'llnllwe. if fjer
, inanv, President P dn i. or Iran.e
and Sir lldnard lin . .n . I n.ti As-
qulth or limit lint m
The spee, h in fill was nv...
"When lhe nvit.ilioo ' . Im lieie to.
night ciitne to uie I was glad to a -11-1,1
It not because It olfend me no oppor
tunity lo distills the pingr.iininA of tl-.n
league, thai yon will, 1 am sine, pot ex
peel of me- but because the deslie .
the whole woild 11 m turns eagii.
more and more eageilv. towatd the hope
of peace, and there is Just lensnn vvhv
we should takt mil part ill counsel npo
this gieat theme It is right that I
as spoltrsiu.iii t'f our Covernment, should
attempt to give express on to what I be
lleve to be tlie thought an. I purpose if
the people of tin! Tn. ted Sules In th
vital matter.
"Tins gieat war that broke so Mid
ilenly utitiii the world two years ago and
which has invept within Its Hume so
gieat a pall of the civilized world Iih
affected us very profoundly, and we. ,1 ,1
not only at liberty, it m peihaps our
duty, to speak vciy fiankly of It and of
the great Ititeiesls of ehlliiitlnn which
Jt nrfects.
"With Us i-aiises and Ita objeota w
are not concerned The obscure roun
tains from which lis stupendous flood
has burst forth we uie nor interested
to search for or explore. Hut no great
s flood, spread far and wid to every
,,..r-ir of tha globe, hi or necessity
ngulfed many a fair prnvinoa of rljlit
