UNIVERSITY MISSOURIAN
1 W()
Sir.o
EIGHTH YEAR
COLUMBIA, MISSOURI, SUNDAY, MAY 28, 1916
EIGHT PACES.
NUMBER 231
V
J
VALLEY MEET EASY
FOR M. U.; SIMPSON
SETS RECORD AGAIN
Tiger Hurdler Tops Highs. YEStkkiay-s kaseiiall KEsnxs
in 14 3-5 Seconds and Lous ....
. ,, r p ,. ,i Xational League.
in 2 j jo, Exceeding and, Xew York 4 0gt011 ,
Equaling Previous World's! xv York 2, Huston 1.
Marks I IJroo'J'yH s. Philadelphia ;:.
1 ' ' llrooklyn 6. Philadelphia 0.
Chicago 3, Cincinnati 2.
MISSOURI, 49; AMES, j Pittsburgh-St. Louis (rain).
22 1-2; KANSAS, 20
All Three Teams in Mile Re
lay Disqualified K. U.
Men Slip on Track Stars,
of Smaller Schools Show!
Well. !
American League.
Philadelphia 3, Washington ".
Philadelphia 1, Washington 3.
Posttm 2. Xew York 4.
St. Louis 1. Detroit 3.
Cleveland-Chicago (rain).
RESULTS OK COXFEREXCE MEET j
Missouri 4! '
Ames 22.L-j
Kansas 20 '
Drake IS
Xebra-ka 13
Kansas Aggies 12
Grinnell 10
Simpson 5
Fairmount 4 'i
American Association.
Toledo 1. Indianapolis 1 (called in
ninth account darkness).
Kansas City 1. Minneapolis 6.
Milwaukee 2. St. Paul 1.
Louisville 6, Columbus 3.
-YELLOW PLAY IS DIFFERENT
Journalism Students Will Offer
t'm "Mellerdrammcr This Year.
"The Yellow Peril," the play to be
Kiven by students in the School of
Journalism in the University Audi
torium Tuesday morning, will be dif
ferent from the plays of former years.
It will not be a burlesque on events or
this school year, but will be a Wes
tern melodrama showing the evil con
sequences arising from yellow jour
nalism, in which an editor makes n
deliberate practice of printing scan
dal stories and blackmailing his vic
times. The play is in two acts and w-as
written by Robert K. Miller, a junior
in the School of Journalism. It will
run about one hour. The leading
parts are taken by Charles Roster as
the "yellow" editor; Clara Dunn as
his wife; Wilson Hicks as the victim
of the scandal; Don 1). Patterson as
"Buckshot Pill," the miner whom the
editor ruins and who proves his
nemesis. Others in the cast are Rulif
Martin, Glenn Doughty. Katheriuc
" UNDERMINED TRUCKS
DELAY KATY TRAINS
IN VERDUN BY AUG, I
IS GERMAN FORECAST
Nearly Three Hours Are
Required to Travel Twenty-Seven
Miles.
CULVERT TORN AWAY
Much of Line Between North
Jefferson and McBaine
Under Water.
THE WEATHER
(Krixirt L-iieil Saturday .Mnrnlns.)
I'or Columbia ami Vicinitv: Smicl.iv
partly cloudy: not much ch:iii".. In rem'.
wratinv.
I'or Missouri: Sunday p.irtlv cloudv;
not much change temperature.
Weather Condition'-.
! MM'itlcd nr.it Iter continue In practical-
y all of tlif Plains ami .Mls.l.spi, Val-'
Icy states, l.ut tin- retinitis precipitation ' If- T T C 1 WT'1. r 1
has 1,,-,-n of a ,.,r,. local than Ventral NaiSer, It IS bald, Will Fol-
.......I... ,. ii.i Hrn inoiicrMi.. ti, n.rifi"
ill I-i-t Ksuio.!-. ami .Missouri ami t hence
northeast ti. Michigan, lint there has been
no rain In West Kansas, Oklahoma. Ar
kansas ami Trxas or in !. uuniin.i
cotton states. J
Temperatures continue htali in tlio ' C"r I it- t
-nth: from Mi-v-uri northiiaril ther arei r lUrl 1 Al
a little lower than they were, lint oil Hip!
other hand tlic weather has moilcr-ited In
all of the Kinky .Mountain Mates.
low Expected Victory
With Peace Overtures.
CUMIERES
EDIVATIOX SHOWN I.V PA(.EAXT
Both Sides Claim Advantage
in Engagements Near
the Meuse.
I I.y United I'rc-s
I.0XD0X. .May 27. That Verdun
Student Depict Methods of Olden P.ijl
ami Hie Present.
Education its develotmiont from
the M. K. & T. main line train from ! primitive times down to the present wiU be cairoil before Aucust 1 was
St. Louis to Texas more than two an J Was the subject of an elaborate pa-' '""dieted by German military experts
a half hours to travel the twenty- I P.,nt ffptivnH- ..rn.,t,i .- tt...i.Ji" dispatches transmitted through
of the School of Education in the Uni-'' Ams'erdam tonight. From the same
versify Auditorium last night. The!source !t uas reI,ortcI that the Kaiscr
pageant was in nine episodes. Lin- tA,ells lo IO"" e expectcu victory
Owing to the heavy rain Friday
night and Saturday morning, it took
seven miles from North Jefferson to
McLSaine yesterday afternoon.
In many places the track was under
Smith,' Annalee Yenion.' Kobert 11. ! 7' a,ld ,n ,Uler1 """f Ule d; i woo.1 Taft was paueant master, as-!" Verdun with an open plea to end
Miller. Renhardt Egger and Raymond ! bed st sft Uiatf ' les , f by Miss F. Louise Xardin. '" war. He may suggest resident
i completely sunk out of sight and the , The curtain rose with America, Miss "lIson )r ,,le ,le:ll of some other neu-
A four-piece orchestra will play the
overture from Thomas' "Raymond"
and all necessary "sob-stuff" incident
al music.
tral power to undertake the task of
carrying peace overtures to the Allies.
Forced out of Cumieres early in the
isouri. fourth. Time, 14 3-5 seconds.
440-yard dash Wyatt, Missouri,
won; Ilasgy. Missouri, second; .Mel
!lor. Ames, third: Eaton, Missouri.
fourth. Time, 50 3-5 seconds,
i
Discus throw Warren. Missouri.
I won. 124 feet 3 inches; lteber. Kan-
I sas, second, 120 feet 9 1-4 inches;
Warnock, Drake, third. US feet 3 1-2
I inches; Krull. Drake, fourth. 113 feet
is 1-2 inches.
Pole vault Powell, Missouri and
I?ob Simp-on hurdled another fifth
of a second off his own world's high
hurdle record of 14 4-." seconds and
equaled the world's mark of 23 3-o sec- I
onds in the low hurdles yesterday aft
ernoon in the ninth annual Missouri
Vallev Conference Track and Field
Meet. Schulte's men won the meet for Pattlneon. Kansas, tied for first. 11
the fifth time by taking 49 points. fePt inehes- KrKin- 1rakc- t,lirtl- n
The Tigers took five firsts. Simp-1 6 il,thes: Campbell. Kansas,
son winning three both hurdle events j follrtn H 't,et-
and the broad jump. Thev also tied HaIf ne-Ke.vs. Kansas Aggies,
for first in the high jumn and pole won: Hi,,er- "ri- "?coml; Mer-
, . riam. Ames, third; Scrogsie. Ames.
. , , i fourth. Time. 2 minutes 1 3-o sec
There is some doubt as to whether i ,
J onds.
ine new worm s man; win sianu. as
one of the five watches, held by Pend
er, former Kansas Aggie coach, caught
the hurdling marvel at IT. seconds. Of
the four other timers, two caught him
at 14 2-o seconds and two at 11 3-5
seconds. In the 220-yard hurdles.
Pender's watch caught him at 23 2-3
seconds: two at 23 3-." seconds; the
other watch caught no time.
Vmc I Second: Kansas Third.
Ames, with 22 1-2 points was Mis
souri's nearest competitor. Kansas
follow ed. with 20 points, and Drake
was fourth, with IS. The other schools
ranked as follows: Nebraska, 13;
Kansas Aggies, 12; Grinnell, 10; Simp
son. 5; Fairmount, 4 1-2.
Hojt of Grinnell was one of the in-
220-yard hurdles Simpson, Mis-
souri, won. tieing world's record;
Packer. Ames, second: Renick. Mis
souri, third: Lucy. Drake, fourth.
Time, 23 3-3 seconds.
220-yard dash Hoyt. Grinnell. won:
Davis. Fairmount, second; Scott, Xe
braska, third; Xiedorp, Missouri,
fourth. Time. 22 1-3 seconds.
Mile relay Missouri won. (Xiedorp,
Wyatt. Oaggy, Pittam) ; Kansas sec
ond. (Elliott. Campbell. Hodkey.
O'Leary): Kansas Aggies third,
(Granlield. Turner. Wilder, Hol-
royd). Time. 3 minutes 23 3-3 seconds.
All teams disqualified.
Shot put Krull, Drake, won, 41 feet
2 inches; Ueber, Kansas, second, 40
feet 9 1-4 inches; Warren Missouri,
CORNELL WINS IN EAST
Ted Meredith Closes His Ca
reer With New Records in
the Ouarter and Half.
irucKS ot tne ears uraggeu in me num. i Carrie L. liurnett. enthmne.l m th..
One culvert was completely washed , staKe. Attending her were Hope. Miss
out, but had been temporarily rebuilt ' vema L. Palmer, and Desnalr. Miss
before the train arrived. When the jiary A. Elliff. The strains of "The i w"ek' tIlc French made an attack from
trains were finally able to get through, star Spangled Ilanner" were heard in
Jici.aine was a uusy piace, uie siue the distance. Hone told America to!
three sides last night, penetrating
Cumieres and holding the eastern
tracks at that place being filled by ; Watch the numbers as they passed and l,ortio of t!le village near the Meuse
ATIIEXAEA.VS HAVE 'SANQIET
Ry Cniteil !.
CAMIilMIH'.E, Mass.. May 27. Cor- j
neii swept tne neni wnn a toiai oi i
43 points in the forty-first annual In- j Literary Sneioty Hears Speeches by
tercollegiate Association meet here) Past and Present Members.
four trains that had been held up. ! rejoice that hers was the heritage ofi"IU,er ,lcavv counter attacks. accord-
On the passenger train due in Co- the ages. "'" to tlIe rench war 0,!lct- Tlic
lumbia at 2 o'clock but which did not I primitive education was first shown. ' 0crma" 0ir"'i:1 statement this after
get in until after 4:30, were a num- j Here the children were taught through ' ncon a(lmitt'l t,lat tlle French reen
I,er of persons from Jefforson Cityat.tual participation in the affairs 0r'tered part of the village, but declared
and Mokane who expectt'd to attend J evervdav life Then came Greek cd-lthev wcrc subsetiucntly ejected.
the track meet in Columbia yester
day afternoon.
ucation the Greek boy on his way to
school went accompanied by a slave ' "'
Reports today indicated that the
I truggle around Fort Douaamont de-
or pedagog, whose duty it was to teach
and protect him, and discipline his
actions. Roman education was depict-
;ed by the investing of a Roman boy
generated into local engagements, first
one side and then the other on the of
fensive.
The Germans claimed an advance
to the heights southwest of the Thia-
wiin ine toca ot mannood. i
this afternoon. Meredith, the Pennsyl-1 The. Athenaean Literary Society Tnen monastic education the monks mont woods. The French war office
vania whirlwind, closed his career on i held its third annual banquet in the j ma,e mistakes it was pointed out but alinounce(1 a complete- repulse,
the cinders for his university by dining rcom of Pemberton Hail last ,h.. .i.-.i .' t 0rvr iiLi,.,
" ciiiion oy tne reuiscovery oi man,
j spoke on "The Place of Debating i" 'brought about through the newly found
!the Student's Training'; X. T. Gentry I a,,.,rt.cIatioll of the cIassics.
I I'kTI rf'I I'lMI'lMl'V tVT CW'L"
jin preserving to us the classical lit-1 ''r" ' ' " """", '' ' " '
erature. The spirit of the Renaissance k,o i)(.trs of Same Sex on Hand for
was distinguished from monastic cdti-; Fetler.it inn Ilimnial.
cation by the rediscovery of man, I v.r rnltcrt Pre.
XEW YORK. May 27. Any one of
the 20.000 clubwomen attending the
breaking the 440-yard record, defeat-1 night. A four-course dinner was serv
ing Riley of Dartmouth by nine yards. led.
and then winning the half mile. His I 11. P. Saunders was toastmaster. R.
time for the quarter was 47 2-3 sec-iw. Jones of the Columbia Tribune
onds.
F. S. Murray of Stanford cut a fifth
off of the 120-yard hurdle record of . on "The Athenaeans in the SO's"; Scven liuie children took tiart in the biennial convention of the General
13 1-3 seconds. j I'i'of. I'- ". McEuen on "Missouri's j next cpjSO(e- tne ideals of Froebel and Feeration of Women's Clubs here today
Three quarters of an hour after his Xeei,s ia Debatin""; Chester R. Long- , ie.staiczzj. The important contribu- ' may have a homeopathic headache or
record quarter Meridith turned in new I wel1 " "The sisniIi:;allce of Athena- j tiolls of this perio,i were U)e i(eas of au allopathic indigestion with im-
eanism xo a senior ; uarrj i. ""- niotor activitv nml nlnr ns mi plimpnt luinltr.
.. r
half mile figures by
field in 1:33 flat.
The score: Cornell
defeating the
43. Vale 29, i
dexter on "The Relation of the A-
lunini to the Society"; John C. Vogel
Stanford 22. California 22. Pennsyl-'
vania IS, Dartmouth 14, Michigan 1
Harvard 11, Princeton 10, Iiowdoin 3
Syracuse 3. Penn State 2. Massachu
settes Institute of Technology 1.
on "The Outlook for Xext Year.'
oivmuai stars ot tne meet. taKing nrsi thir(1 3S fcet 8 incncs. BerrVt jiis
piace in both the 100-yard and 220-1 souri fourtn! t-8 feet 4 1.0 iches.
yard dashes. He won his preliminary ' Hign jUmp Pittam. Missouri, and
in the 100-yard dash in 10 seconds, iFTizzef Kansas Aggies, tied for first,
winning the finals in one-fifth of a(- feet n ijlciles; i5rniss. Ames, and
second slower time. ISolter. Fairmount, tied for second, "
Missouri won first and second in the fect s inches,
quarter-mile when Wyatt, starting in j Two-mile run Daft. Simpson, won;
the fifth lane, took the pole at the first Jjiaakestad, Ames, second; Teeter,
turn and held his lead through-out. ,'Kansas Aggies, third; Stateler. Kan
Dacgy finishing behind him by inches. jsas follrth. Time. 9 minutes 53 1-5
Eaton finished fourth in this event. seconds.
All llisqiialificd in Relay. ( Proad jump Simpson. Missouri,
Xiedorp. Wyatt, Baggy and Pittam. , won. 22 feet 10 1-4 inches; Grutz-
running in the order named, won thejmacher, Kansas, second, 22 feet 2 1-
mile relay for Missouri in 3 minutes 231 inches; Lucy, Drake, third, 21 feet 2
3-5 seconds. The Jayhawkers finished 1-2 inches; Erwin, Drake, fourth, 21
second by about twenty yards; the feet.
Kansas Aggies, third. All three teams Half-mile relay Xebraska won.
i
I About fifty persons attended. The ! christian College facultv; Literature
."tables were placed in the form of alMiss GaHVS 1. rjunch; Painting, Miss
Maltese cross. 1 Delphine Mittelberg. and Philosophy.
The society passed a resolution, or- ( Miss Anna c Klein an)1 B F .Mecher.
fered by Robert W. Jones, that the I The Camnfire Girls and the Ilov
of nil learning. . One hundred women doctors and
Higher education was depicted by! as many more nurses are on the
Music. Miss Wilna Soverhill of the 'emergency staff, under the direction
of Dr. Rosalie S. Morton, and tliey
daily minister to all the ills a club
woman is heir to.
Two stations, each under two doc
tors and a trained nurse, are open at
WAITE FOUND GUILTY
I Cniversity should require each candi-Scouts were jn the next two epjS0(jes! all hours in the Seventh Regimmt
jdate for graduation to have training ,Thee organizations showed the new i Armory, where the federation is meet
ing, and stations are maintained con
tinually at the Hotel Astor, the of-
in public speaking and debating.
Seminar History Class on picnic.
These organizations showed the new
spirit of education.
Physical education was the last epi
sode. A wand drill by sixteen Univer-' ficial headquarters, and other hotels.
Dentist Convicted of Killing' The seminar class in ancient his-jsity women was led by Miss Alice j Hospital rooms at the armory and at
Rich Father-in-Law
With Poison.
itory held its last meeting of the year Arnold. Miss Edith Caverly and Paul
I Thursday afternoon. Prof, and Mrs. l!arnes gave a Hungarian folk dance.
I A. T. Olmstead took the six members I Playground activities and aesthetic
dancing completed the episode.
At the close of the pageant the
Campfire Girls led the audience in
singing "America."
The pageant was well received by a
I of the class on a picnic on the Ash-
Ily Cnited I'rcss. jjaml raveI wnere after the regular
XEW YORK, May 27.-Doctor Ar-. ,.ork was finislC(,, llmcn was serve(1.
thur . Waite this afternoon was i Latw Profeggor 0lmstcad entertained
found guilty of murder in the first de- ithe nt Wg home whh v,ews am,
Bret' lor jioiboniog 111s millionaire
(Owen. Irwin. Pates. Scott); Drake
second, (Grothe. Davidson, Lucy, Er
win); Kansas third. (Davidson, El
liott. Campbell, O'Leary); Kansas Ag-
'gies fourth. (Turner, Granfield. Wild-
Time, 1 minute 31 2-3
Robert ltranhnm Here.
Robert Branham of Kansas City,
! whose time of 9 4-3 seconds is still the
j Missouri record, is visiting his moth
; er, Mrs. J. S. Uranhara and his broth
ler, Warren Rranham.
were disqualified, Missouri and Kansas
for touching off out of bounds and the
Aggies for failure to touch. The event
was not allowed in scoring, but the
trophy cups were awarded in order.
After two laps of the two-mile raceler. Holroyd)
had been run it was discovered that ' seconds.
the two Ames entrants had been left j
out. The runners were stopped and
the delinquents ran two laps by them-
selves. The whole event was then run !
off later in the afternoon. I
Kansas Plays in Hard Luck.
Luck played against Kansas when
O'Leary. holding the pole in the 440-j Sedalia Party nt Track Meet,
yard dash, fell at the first turn. Rod-j Former State Senator C. E. Yeater.
key, the Jayhawkers' star half-miler, a former mem. .. -f the Un' orsity
met wttn a like accident at the start ot 1 Eo-itd of Curptors, Lee M:-itK'-:U' y
the SSO-yard run. He had been expect'
ed to win this event.
The summary follows:
lOO-j ard dash Hoyt. Grinnell. won;
Scott. Xebraska, second: Irwin. Xe
braska. third; Davidson, Drake, fourth.
Time, 10 1-3 seconds.
Mile run Hawthorne. Ames, won;
Sproull. Kansas, second; Gabelman,
Missouri, third; Overman, Xebraska.
fourth. Time, 4 minutes, 29 3-3 sec
onds. 120-yard high hurdles Simpson.
Missouri, won, breaking his own
world's record; Packer, Ames, sec
ond; Xoble, Ames, third; Teas. Mis-
father-in-law, John E. Peck, cf Grand
Rapids, Mich. The jury retired at
1:23 o'clock and reported its verdict
at 2:45. Waite will be sentenced lo
die in the electric chair at S'sig Sing
He was remanded to the Tombs for
sentence on June 1.
accounts of his tour in Palestine.
Attack Saloon.
Chicago Cliiirche'
Uy I'nlteil I'rc.
CHICAGO. May
loons will be pictured
churches tomorrow as first aids to the
devil. .Yearly every church will de
rate its morning services to an at
tack on the saloons and laudation of
the Illinois Anti-Saloon League's can
didates for legislative places.
Raccalaiireale Sen ires for ('. ('.
The baccalaureate services for
Christian College will be held at the
First Christian Church at 7:43 o'clock
I tomorrow night. The sermon will be
I preached by the Rev. Alvin Lamar
Wills of Xew York City. Director
'Cady Kenney will be at the organ and
07. Chicago's sa-'tne music program will be given by
in all the Lnr,s,,an college students.
large audience.
the hotels are part of the equipment.
KIXR AMI HIXMA.V ELECTED
, ,-,,,.. -. .! ll u.il
anil r.111011 ouiuuiii, an m oi-uuua. in
tended the Missouri Valley Confer
ence Track Meet here yesterday as
guests of O. M. Harnett. I'niversity at
torney. William Courtney or Sedalla
lis the guest of Ixmis Parnett.
Claj to A-sist Van Cent.
James A. ("Liz") Clay, captain of
the 1914 football team, has been ap
pointed assistant ccach of the Texas
I-onghorns, to aid Eugene Van Gent.
Clay, who is at present in Fort
Worth, where he is in business with
his father, will probably report for
work about the first of Steptember.
I'liien Liternrj Society Elect.
The I'nion Literary Society of the
I'niversity last night elected the fol
lowing officers for next year: Presi
dent. I). P. Curtiss; vice-president.
J. W. X'ewberry: secretary-treasurer,
Harold Ramsey; sergeant-at-arms,
James Lehew; critic, J. Appleby.
THE CALENDAR
-May 2S. Ii.iccalanreate aclilresi by the
Her. John A. Ilice, University
Auilitorlum, 11 a. in.
.May 21. open Hmi'-e liy student of
School of Kngineerlng. Kugiiiet'ring
Ittiililing. 1! to 5 p. m.
Jl.iy Lit. Stephens Oratorical Contest, Uni
versity Auiiitoriuin. a p.
.May 21. Concert by Cadet Hand,
Campus, S p. m.
Mav 9. Commencement Uore Show, Kol-
lins Field. 7:30 to 10 p. in.
-May SO. Play by students of School of
.Tournaliin, University Auditorium,
10 a. in.
May SO. Commencement Ilor-e Show, I.ol-
lins Held, 2 to 5 anil 7:00 to 10
I". 111.
-May 31. Alumni adilrci by Forrest C.
Chosen Editor and Itusjncss Manager
of .Missoiirian, Itcgimiing June 1.
Frank II. King, a junior in the
School of Journalism and the Col
lege of Arts and Science of the Uni
versity, was elected editor of the Unl-
;versity Missourian for the year be
ginning June 1 by the Board of Di
rectors cf the University Missourian
j Association Friday night. His home
Pershing Wires Congratula-i;,1,becrt,,;.ml;;inman of Oshkosllt Wis.,
tions to Captors of Cervan- ja junior in the School of Journalism.
PRAISES U,S, TROOPSi
tes and Beau come.
was elected business manager of the
paper. Miss Gladys Ilaker was elect
ed secretary of the Missourian Hoard.
pt- T,lt(n1 T'rncn
ARMY HEADQUARTERS. XAMIQUI-i IIinn,a wln 1,eRin his work as 1,"si
PA. Mexico. May 27. Congratulations
ness manager June 1 and will be in
Columbia during the summer.
J. L. Groves was elected a director.
were sent by wireless today by
General Pershing to the cemmandinj;
oilicer of an advanced American camp , (iM. jja,.,, n rniicrsity League,
at I-as Cruets for a small detachment , revision R of the University
of the Seventh Infantrymen who kill- i,eaRlle the Farm House Is in the lead
ed Candalerio Cervantes and Juan 1 wUh a percentage of .750. This team
West Peaucome, Villista leaders, in Thurs
day's engagement.
"Their brave stand in the face of
superior numbers," said Pershing, "is
an example that may well be emulat-
To He 5110 (Juests a( '(.'anion Party.
The Phi Zeta Theta, Eta Mu Oml
cron and Zeta Alpha Phi clubs or
has played all its games, but there Is
one more game to be played between
ithe Engineers and lawyers. The team
winning this game will tie the Farm
house for first place, and a game be
tween these two will decide the team
His message stated that the death fJ,.t .:ii ,,nv iintnn Hall tho winner
nonnell. University Auditorium. lojof the two Danuit leaders was almost of Division A.
ver-itv Auditorium. 11 a. m,
May CI. I'hi Ileta Kappa luncheon. Vir
ginia Tea Kooui. 12:PJI n. in.
I ?.. Ot Tk....j ...ip... la l.p i-i,I-Ig IChbI
Christian College have issued invita- ' ' Campu. 4 p.' m.
tions to a garden party from 4 to C May ",J'1'!;'e:,l,fnfmf!:,1p1o,ln0f La,v
o'clock tomorrow afternoon and even- I May 31. Singing Jy the Glee C!ut, at the
ing. About 500 guests will be enter- May 3,"Mi',"!!;1I,,1meria'M2iit's nre.im."
tained. 1 presented Py the University wom
en. ei miiiiiu", .., . in.
.May 31. Annual tnilne meeting of T'ni-ias important as the death of Villa
.. !. II nt t ....... tn.l..n I'nl. !
iri-uti .iiuiiiui .i?-i.i,iiiii, Kit'
himself.
Mr. and .Mrs. ItnuIIey Here.
Mr. and Mrs. P. E. Pradley of St.
"The Floner Masque" Tomorrow j Louis were here yesterday to visit
The pageant. "The Flower Masque," I their son, Philip Hradley, who will be
which was to have been given last j graduated this week from the College
night by the students of Stephens Col-1 of Arts and Science. Mr. Pradley is
lege' on the college campus, has been I general manager of the St. Louis
Ilaccalanreate Sermon for Stephen.
Dr. Frederick Anderson of Xewton
Center, Mass., will deliver the bac
calaureate address to the graduating
class of Stephens College at S o'clock
tonight in the Paptist Church.
June 1. Commencement evercie, Univer-njn
MIJ .llilllini lltlU J" .1. i".
June 1. Class Hay eiercises, at the
Column. 12 m.
June 1. Alumni luncheon. Kothwell Gym
nasium. 12:30 p. m.
June 1. Concert by the Glee Club. Uni
versity Auditorium. T:3o p. m.
June 1. Keception br the president anil
curators of the University, Hoth
neii Gymnasium, 0 p. m.
postponed until 7:45 o'clock tomorrow
Major Patterton I Iinproiing.
Mayor James M. Ratterton. who has
been ill for the last few days, Is im
proving rapidly. He will be able to
take up his regular work tomorrow.
Post-Dispatch.
Killed by Lightning In Home.
While adjusting a curtain before
an open window, Joseph A. Pomie, 4C
years old, was killed by lightning at
his home in Callaway County early
yesterday morning.
i
-1
jl
