LOOK FOR THE
PLAN PGR A VITRE
SECTION
Pk
WEATHER.
Fair and continued cold today and
probably totmorrow; gentle variable
winds.
Temperature for the past twenty
four hours ending midnight: Highest.
69. at 3 p.m.; lowest, 53. at 10 p.m.
Full report on page 3.
No. fi00-No. 29,444.
WASHINGTON, D. C., SUNDAY MORNING, SEPTEMBER 17, 1916*
FIVE CENTS.
Hurl Continuous Stream of Fire
on Austrians Along a
35-Mile Front.
INFANTRY ATTACKING
FROM WIPPACH TO SEA
Vienna Admits "Withdrawal of Line
Behind Mama
Position.
ITALIANS GAIN ELSEWHERE
Carry Intrenchments in the Neigh
borhood of Oppachiasella?Aus
trian Garrison Nearly Wiped
Out in Trentino.
HtKvia! Cablegram to The Star.
LONDON, September 16.?
Italians are pressing the attack on
the Carso plateau without pause.
Their guns are hurling a continu
ous stream of fire at the Austrian
line from the gulf of Trieste to
Krn, a front of thirty-five miles.
Their infantry is attacking from
the Wippach to the sea, a ten-mile
line. The assault is moving for
ward in two columns. One is
battering at the positions east of
Gorizia. the heights which defied
an Italian advance after the fort
ress city fell. The other is seek
ing to force a way through the
Teuton positions on the Carso
plateau. Both of these attacks
made some progress today.
Vienna Admits Retirement.
Vienna admits that the Austrian line
Mas withdrawn behind the .Mama posi
tion. south of Gorizia. while on the
Carso large intrenchments in the neigh
borhood of Oppachiasella. a mile beyond
the l>oberdo plateau, was carried by the
Itafians. The fighting around Gorilla
aims to win the hills buttressing the
Austrian line along the railway that
runs east to St. Daniel and then turns
south to Trieste. Monte Gabriele. north
of Gorizia. is one of the strongest of
these positions. The Italians are striv
ing to turn it on the south. ,
In the battle on the southern flank
the Italians are attempting to clear the
way for an advance along the railway I
from Monfalcone to. Trieste. This can be
accomplished only by winning the posi
tions on the Carso which dominate the
coast line. Their progress here is faster |
than that further north.
Takes 1.000 Prisoners.
In the attack today the Italians took
more than 1,000 prisoners. But of
greater importance is the new strain
on the Austrian line. At the time when
the Russian drive threatens to take
Halicz. all available reserves are need
ed for the Lemberg defenses. The re
newed Italian assault will draw heavily
on these troops.
The intense artillery fire north of
Gorizia indicates that fhe Italian com
manders contemplate a wider attack.
It is presumed that the whole Isonzo
line wi'.l soon be the scene of a heavy
infantry struggle and tfiat a new of
fensive for Tolmino will soon be under
way.
In the Trentino the Italians also are
attacking. In :he Fiume valley a height
nearly 8.000 ;eet high was wrested from
Austrian Tyrolese and Alpine troops
and the Austrian garrison nearly wiped
out I'ressure has been begun or pre
pared at many points along the wide
Italian front.
Claims Success in Offensive.
ROME, September 16. via London.?
The new offensive of the Italians, who
are attempting to advance on Trieste,
^as developed successfully yesterday.
The war office today announced the 1
? apture of a number of important posi- j
tions. More than 1.000 prisoners were I
taken
Austrian Official Report.
VIENNA, September 16.?The latest I
oflicia! report describing operations in
the Italian theater says:
"The battle on the Carso plateau
( ontinues uninterruptedly and with
e'iual violence. Infantry attacks of the
Italians, .supported by the heaviest ar
tillery and mine fire, were again di
rected aKainst the whole front between
the Wippach river and the sea. On the
northern wing of the ?'arso sector the
enemy succeeded in gaining a little
ground Here our line runs ' losely to
th?_- ea*t of San Orado di Merna. Other
wise th* battle front is unchanged,
thank* to the stubborn tenacity of our
troop.*. Five hundred Italians were
made prisoners and three machine guns
w?-re captured
"North of Wippach artillery fighting
extended along the greater part of the
front sectors as far as Krn. An attack
delivered east of Gorizia against our
positions nouth of the Rosen valley did
not suc<*?rd in gaining ground to the
enemy, thanks to our fire At Flitsch
the artillery fire was very lively.
"On the Tyrol front the enemy at
tacked on the Fasana ridge. Before the
<ima di Cece-Col Torondo sector the ef
fe> t of our artillery stopped the enemy's
advance. On Monte '"auriol our Alpini
detachments succeeded in capturing a
supporting position in a depression
west of the summit."
WILLC0X GOING TO CHICAGO.
Republican Chairman Will Take
Part in Party Conference.
SEW YORK. 8?pt?mtwr IS. ? William
R. Willcox. republican national chairman,
will go to Chicago tomorrow for a con
ference with the party's advisory com
mittee in that city, he announced today.
A T. Hart, western manager of the cam
paign. visited national headquarters here
t'iday and will accompany Mr. Willcox to
Chicago.
| Penetrates Town, But Later Is
Driven Out?Captured
Followers Executed.
I GEN. TREVINO WOUNDED
DURING ENGAGEMENT
Carranzistas Reported Severely De
feated in Fight in Vicinity of
Namiquipa.
KL PASO, Tex., September 16.
?\ ilia attacked Chihuahua City
today with 600 men, penetrated
part of the city-, but was driven
out with heavy losses by the
constitutionalist army. The cap
tured Villa followers were im
mediately put to death. Gen.
! Trevino was wounded in an arm.
It is presumed that the Chihuahua
City battle followed the reported de
feat of Carranza troops in the vicinity
of Namiquipa. Reinforcements in two
detachments were sent from Chihua- j
! hua to prevent the Villistas from ex- '
terminating the Carranzistas.
The battle, according to advices re
ceived here today, was fought near the
camp abandoned by Gen. Pershing's
forces when the Americans were with
drawn to Calonia Dublan. Gen. Jose
Cavosos, Carranza commander, en
countered the Villistas on march.
The Carranza forces were routed
after fighting for thi^ce hours and los
ing heavily in men and horses and
equipments.
Gen. Huerta Vargas and Col. Zuzua
were sent with reinforcements for Gen.
Cavosos.
Anti-American Demonstration
Marks Juarez Celebration of
Mexico's Independence Day
EL PASO, Tex., September 16.?The
climax of last night's Independence day
celebration in Juarez was reached in
an anti-American demonstration, ac
cording to military reports today.
According to these, which Mexican
authorities denied, about 1,500 men and
boys gathered in the plaza early today
and listened to anti-American and
pro-Villa harangues. *
Palavicini Against Militarism.
MEXICO CITY. Mex., September 16 ?
Militarism was opposed and universal
military training advocated in a Mex
ican Independence day celebration
speech here today by Felix Palavicini,
minister of public instruction in the
de facto government. Palavicini spoke
ae the unofficial representative of Gen.
Venustiano Carranza, first chief of the
constitutionalist government.
The speaker declared that while it
was the intention to establish a strong
government in Mexico, it was not in
tended that such a government should
be controlled by military power alone.
Universal military training, the min
ister said, wouid fulfill the plans of the
de facto government; because, when
each citizen had been made a trained
soldier there would be no chance for the
army to control and "run over those
engaged in civil pursuits."
The 106th anniversary of Mexican in
dependence was being generally cele
brated tofiay throughout the republic.
Commissioners Observe Anniversary.
NEW YORK, September 16.?Luis Ca
brera. minister of finance in the Car
ranza cabinet, and head of the Mexican
commission sent to New London, Conn.,
to adjust the differences between the
'United States arid Mexico, spent today
here with his conferees, quietly ob
serving Mexican independence day. The
commissioners denied themselves to all
? callers.
FIRST COUSINS ELOPE.
Father Balks Marriage at Boekville,
Phoning Girl Is Too Young.
Hpc<*ta1 I>i*pat?h to The Star.
ROCK VJLLE, Md., September 16.?
Miss Helen Coombs and John Adams,
both of the vicinity of White Plains.
Md., were refused a marriage license by
the clerk of the circuit court here. The
clerk had received a telephone message
from the girl's fathec not to let thern
have a ll<-er?se, as the girl was but fif
teen years old.
The father of the girl arrived in
! Rock vine a few hours later. He was
i able to learn nothing of the movements
of the couple after they left Rockville.
j Mr. Coombs explained that the young
folk3 are first cousins and that that was
the principal reason why he objected to
| their marriage. He said that they at
! tetided a dance last night and about
'midnight disappeared, presumably going
to Washington by automobile. Learning
j of t?e elopement early this morning,
he set out to prevent the marriage, if
? possible.
| BIRMINGHAM SHORT OF LABOR.
Negroei Induced to Leave by Pros
pects for Work Elsewhere.
BIRMINGHAM* Ala., September 16._
Shortage of unskilled labor In the Bir
mingham district is threatened because
of the exodus in the last two months of
between 4,000 and 5,000 negroes, drawn
from this section by alleged prospects
| on the Pennsylvania railroad, in West
j Virginia mines and the coal fields of
j Kentucky and Pennsylvania, it became
j known here today. It Is understood
agents from the north have been in this
territory looking for unskilled labor to
meet what was considered an acute sit
tt^Uon in the northern fields.
Bulgarians Lose 32 Cannon in
Rout on Western Mace
donia Front.
SUBSTANTIAL GAINS MADE
i BY FRENCH AND RUSSIANS
\ Violent Cannonading Continues
From the Struma to the Vardar.
Skirmishing in Beles Foothills.
AIEMEN BOMBARD MONASTIR
Berlin Says von Mackensen Has
Driven Muscovites and Rumanians
Sack, on Line From Silistria to
the Black Sea.
PARIS, September 16, via
London, 5 p.m.?Serbian troops
have put the Bulgarians to rout
in the fighting 011 the western
end of the Macedonian front, the
war office announced today. 'J lie
Serbians have advanced six miles
northeast of Fiorina and have
captured thirty-two cannon.
I On the allies' left wing the;
| Franco-Russian troops also have
advanced, pushing beyond the
line of the heights of Malareka,
and continued to press forward
victoriously in the region of
Fiorina. One of the allied aerial
squadrons dropped a number of
projectiles on^Monastir.
Skirmishing* in the Beles Foothills.
From the Struma to the Vardar the
cannonading continues to be violent.
There was skirmishing at the foot of
the Beles mountains arid in the vicinity
of Makukovo. In the regions of Vet
renik and Kajmackalan the French
have made substantial progress.
Berlin says ^he Bulgarian* retired to
a new defensive position after the loss
of Malkanidze. Serbian attacks on the
Moglenica front failed, according to
Berlin.
Gains Claimed by Bulgars.
The latest official statement issued in
Sofia yesterday concerning operations
on the Macedonian front reads as fol
lows:
"West and southwest of Lake Ostrovo
there was violent fighting. Considera
ble enemy forces were engaged, among
them Russians regiments in the Mog
lencia valley. Combato on both sides
of Leda were carried on with great
violence. Our troops repulsed the enemy
by counter attacks, causing heavy
enemy losses.
"There was calm on the west bank of
the Vardar. On the east bank there was
violent artillery fire. British troops at
tacking in the direction of Shimnu suc
ceeded in temporarily entering our
trendies, but were driven back to their
former positions. On the L?elasitz
Planina and the Struma fronts and 011
the Aegean coast all was calm.
Von Mackensen Repulses
Muscovites and Rumanians
From Silistria to the Sea
LONDON September 16.?Under the
leadership of Field Marshal von Mack
ensen, the forces of the central powers
have driven the Russians and the Ru
manians back to a line running from
'north of Silistria, on the Danube, to
Mangalia, on the Black sea coast.
The Rumanian advance in Transyl
vania. Berlin records, is meeting with
stiff resistance from the Austro-Germari
forces in the vicinity of Fogares, twen
jty miles north of the frontier. The
? Rumanians, who crossed the Alt river,
I were driven back, and at IJatzeg Ru
! manian positions were takekn, it is
claimed.
i The official account of the victory
1 won by German ami Bulgarian troops
I which are invading eastern Russia,
; issued in Sofia yesterday, says the bat
Itie ended Thursday with the "complete
i destruction of the Rumanians, who are
(retreating along the entire line.
| "On the Rumanian front," the state
! ment says, "the great battle on the
I line of the Alinea lake and the villages
j of Parachioi, Abtaat, Musubey and
I Karaomer ended Thursday with the
j complete destruction of the enemy.
The enemy is retreating along the
entire line, energetically pursued by
j our troops. j
Teutons Counting Their Prisoners.
| "The number of prisoners and the
1 amount of booty taken is now being
j computed. The I'd, 5th. 9th and i&th j
Rumanian divisions, the 6th Russian
Infantry division, a mixed Russian and
Serbian Infantry division and three di
visions of Russian cavalry participated
in the fighting.
"According to the declarations of
prisoners we captured at the fortress of
Turtukai </>obrudja) the 15th and 17th
Rumanian divisions, composed of the
34th the 36th, the 74th, the 75th, the
76th* the 79th and the 88th Infantry
Regiments, one mixed regiment, the 2d
Frontier Infantry Regiment, the 5th
Howitzer Regiment and the 3d Fortress
' Artillery Regiment. Up to now we
h^ve taken 452 officers of the Rumanian
army among them being Col. Rash
kanu' and Marshescu, brigade com
manders, forty physicians and five
i Hind masters.
"The chief of the 15th Rumanian Di
vision, Oen. Grigoreacu. escaped, ac
cording to the declaration of the pris
oner. The chief of the 17th Division,
Gen. Todorescu, was drowned in the
"We \lso brought in two flags. 100
cannon, als-two machine euna and
a
much other war material In the com
bats at Kurdbunar, liobric and SSIlis
tria we made prisoners fifteen officers
and 3,000 soldiers, and also captured
thirty cannon."
BULGARS THREATEN REPRISAL.
Captured Rumanian Officers in Peril
Because of Alleged Atrocities.
BERLIN. September 16, by wireless to
the Associated Press via Sayville.?Pre
mier Radoslavoff of Bulgaria, who al
ready has requested the American
charge d'affaires to visit Dobrudja to in
vestigate the atrocities which the Ru
manians are charged officially with hav
ing committed during t.heir retreat be
fore the invading Bulgarian and Ger
man armies, now announpes that unless
this alleged slaughter of women and
children is stopped Bulgaria will in
augurate reprisals, beginning with 400
captured Rumanian officers.
NEW GREEK CABINET
SAID 10 FAVOR WAR
Assumes Power With New Premier
Under Conditions Which Sur
rounded Predecessor.
ATHENS, September 16, via London,
11:06 p.m.?The new Greek cabinet,
headed by Nikolas Kalogeropoulos, as
sumes power under, the same conditions
as surrounded that of its predecessor and
as merely a service cabinet.
The .new premier, M. Kalogeropoulos, is
considered one of the cleverest lawyers in
Greece and has received the degree of
doctor of laws from the University of
Paris. He lived for a long time in France
and has close relations with Great
Britain.
Former Member of Cabinet.
M. Kalogeropoulos was minister of
finance for a brief time in 1904-5 and
was minister of the interior in the Theo
tokis cabinet of 1908-9.
The new premier is friendly to former
Premier Venizelos. although he is not an
active partisan of the Venizelist policy.
The new cabinet is considered here to
be favorable toward Greece's participa
tion in the war.
Cabinet May Have Short Life.
LONDON, September 16, 11:05 p.m.?
A Reuter dispatch from Athens says:
"The new cabinet was worn in before
M. Kalogeropoulos saw the ministers
of the entente powers. Its fate de
pends upon its policy, which, if it is a
continuance of the so-called belliger
ent neutrality, will give it a short life."
INVITED TO FIGHT DUEL.
Counselor of Greek King Challenged
by Sovereign's Former Secretary.
ATHENSj Friday. September 15, via
London, September 16, 4:45 p.m.?George
Streit, King Constantine's most intimate
counselor, who lately has been acting as
the sovereign's personal agent in en
deavoring to form a cabinet, was chal
lenged to a duel today by George Melas,
formerly the king's private secretary.
M. Melas, who lost his position on ac
count of his sympathies for former Pre
mier Venizelos, in an open letter to M.
Streit charges him with being responsi
ble for the "disastrous results of the Ger
manophlle policy of Greece."
M. Streit was foreign minister at the
outbreak of the war.
EX-GOV. SANDERS WINS.
Nominated for Representative From
Sixth Louisiana District.
BATON ROUGE. La.. September 16.?
According to official figures given out
late today by Secretary of State Bailey
former Gov. J. Y. Sanders was nomi
nated in last Tuesday's democratic prim
ary to succeed Representative Lewis L.
Morgan from the sixth Louisiana dis
trict. Mr. Sanders' majority over his
opponent, Amos L. Ponder, was 324.
t
PRESIDENT 10 GO TO
FUNERAL OF SISTER
Abandons Political Engage
ments and Will Start for Co
lumbia, S. C., This Afternoon.
I
; LONG BRANCH. N. J.. September 16.
?Canceling all political engagements
for the first part of next week.^Presi- j
dent Wilson today made plans for leav- I
ing for Columbia. S. C.. tomorrow
afternoon, to atten<l the funeral of his i
sister. Mrs. Annie K. Howe, who died
this morning at New London. Conn.
The President had plartned to speak \
in St. Louis .Wednesday, before an un
I derwriters' convention. As soon as he i
I heard of his sister's death he arranged
for Secretary of War Baker to make
an address in his place. He also had
made engagements to see Chairman
Vance McCormick of the democratic
national committee. Senator Meyers of j
Montana and other political leaders on !
Monday.
President Much Affected.
News of Mrs. Howe's death reached j
the President while he was at break
fast. He was much affected, although
he was told several days ago, during
his visit to his sister in New London,
that it was impossible for her to live.
He had planned to return to New Lon
j don before her death.
Accompanied by Mrs. Wilson and Dr.
| Cary Grayson, the White House physi
I cian. the President will motor to Tren
ton, N. J.. tomorrow afternoon, and at
4:56 p.m. will join his brother. Joseph
j R. Wilson of Baltimore; his daughter.
Miss Margaret Wilson, and several
other relatives, who will go with Mrs.
Howe's body to Columbia.
Funeral Tomorrow.
1 The funeral party will arrive at Co
I lumbia Monday morning. at 11:30
| o'clock. The funeral will be held Mori
j day afternoon. Mr. Wilson will leave
! there at 6:13 o'clock Monday afternoon,
j arriving back here at 1:11 Tuesday
! afternoon. *
The President has an engagement to
speak at Baltimore September 23. be
i fore the National Grain Dealers' Asso
! ciation convention and expects to till it. i
j Tentative arrangements for speeches in
? his "porch" campaign here will be held
/ up until after his return from Colum
bia.
BELGIANS WREST FORTRESS
FROM TEUTONS IN AFRICA
! LONDON, September 17, 3:36 a.m.?
i Belgian forces operating in German
| lOast Africa have captured Tabora. the
principal German fortress in the terri
| tory, according to a Belgian official I
communication received here. The
statement follows: "As the result of
severe fighting between September 1
I and 11 the brigades of Gens. Moliton
| and Olsen. belonging to the army of
Gen. Tombeur. entered Tabora. expel
ling the Germans. Tabora, which was
fortified powerfully, was the principal
citadel in German East Africa, com
manding the railway from l.ake Tan
ganyika to the Indian ocean.
BRITISH AEROS ATTACK
RAILWAYS IN PALESTINE
LONDON. September 16.?An official
account of an aerial attack on enemy
positions In Palestine was Issued to
day as follows:
"Between August 25 snd 29 a series
of attacks and reconnaissances upon
V,
I the enemy's railway communications
j in Palestine was carried out by a Brit
! ish seaplane squadron under somewhat
j hazardous conditions, due to the fact
j that the railway runs for the most
' part behind a range of mountains dif
I ficult for seaplanes to surmount.
"Bombs were dropped on Afulch
J Junction, where considerable damage
was dorYe to the rolling stock and
j stores in the vi^fnity. A railway en
i gine and fourteen carriatf^s were set
! afire and destroyed. The railway
J stations at Tulkerm and Ardana and
an efierr.y CSmp four miles lo the
j northwest were successfully bombard
1 ed and severely damaged.
j "On the 26th seaplanes bombarded
the railway station at Home, forty
flve miles inland."
ACTIVITIES INDICATE
E
Agents Arrive at New London and
German Ship Prepares
Screen Effect.
3
| NEW LONDON, Conn., September 16.
i?A persistent report that the German
| submarine merchantman Bremen, a sister'
ship of the Deutschland, would arrive
j here within a week, gained credence to
! night by the arrival in this city of Paul
| G. L. Hilken, manager of the German
j Ocean Transportation Company, organ
ized to operate the underseas craft,
i Mr Hilken was accompanied by G.
' Prusse, who was credited with having
I constructed the Deutschland, the first
j German submarine freighter to reach the
i United States. Mr. Prusse was a passen
j ger on the Deutschlanu when that vessel
; arrived at Baltimore.
i Although neither Mr. Hilken nor Mr.
: I'russe would state definitely tonight
j whether the Bremen is on her way here,
! elaborate preparations have been made,
I which indicate that the undersea liner
J probably is about due.
j The North German Lloyd steamer
| Willehad, brought around from Bos
j ton a few weekks ago, has been moor
| ed near the U. S. S. Dolphin, outside of
j the New London pier, forming a berth
' inside, and today a pontoon of rafts,
j with a big board fence, was floated
' around to the prow of the steamer and
there moored.
With the pontoon fence in position,
a submarine inside would be scjeeneu
from outside view. The board fence
surrounds the warehouses and the of
fice buildings leased by the Eastern
Forwarding Company, a subsidiary of
the German Ocean Transportation Com
pany.
About twenty carloads of rubber
have been received here within the
last few weeks and are stored hi the
warehouses. The material is incased
in small boxes, marked via San Fran
[ cisco.
I FAVOR UNIFIED METHODISM.
Delegates to Southwest Missouri Con
ference Vote Unanimously.
KANSAS CITY, Mo., September 16.?
Resolutions were unanimously adopted
her?? today by the southwest Missouri con
ference of the Methodist Hjpiscopal Church
(South) instructing the delegates from
that section of Missouri to vote in favor
of the unification with the northern
branch of the church at the next general
conference. Rev. J. F. Goucher of Bal
timore addressed the conference in favor
of the resolution.
Mayor Acquitted of Perjury.
GIRARD, Ala., September 16.?Earl
I. Morgan, mayor of Girard, "today was
acquitted by a Russell county jury of
perjury, which, it was charged, he
committed at the'trial of John Oakes,
former chief of police of Girard, who
last month was convicted of accepting
bribes from persons engaged in liquor
traffic. The case was submitted to
the Jury late yesterday.
Republicans to Conduct Cam
paign Partly on Comparison
of Presidential Nominees.
SAY PRESIDENT WILSON
EVADES AND VACILLATES
Democrats Rely on Popular Cry That
Administration Kept Us
Out of War.
BY N. O. MESSENGER.
j YORK, September 16.?
| Aside from strictly party and
| platform differences between the
j democrats and republicans, if
j there be any that are clearly de
'fined other than the protective
tariff, this national campaign bids
iair pretty soon to divide 011 lines
which might be termed psycho
logical. J here are indications in
1 plenty as well as actual evidence
I at hand of such a drift.
| Already one phase of the impending
1 division is seen, and the other will be
very shortly apparent, it soon will be
j so acute as to be universally noticeable,
according to information obtainable.
K very body is aware of the psycholog
ical element upon which the admin
istration is leaning so heavily?the
popular thought that President Wilson
"kept us out of war." That there is
such a feeling widespread in the coun
try is undeniable. Every unbiased in
vestigator who reports upon political
conditions knows it to be a fact
Furthermore, it is true that it appeals
to many, especially to the lay people,
the non-experts in politics and states
manship, the busy folk, who are potter
ing around about their little affairs,
small in the gross but exigent to them
selves. Politicians may apply the acid
test of logic and disintegrate the claim
to their own satisfaction, but the fact
cannot be disputed that the feeling
prevails.
Ballots to Decide.
To what degree it is to be effective In
lulling the voters to indifference to
other features of the campaign and to
jthe basic differences between the
policies^ and practices of the democratic
tnd republican parses is, of course, an
other question, and the vital one, to
b? decided only at the polls.
However, the fact remains that the
democratic manners of hiTh and low
rank are relying upon tP is state of
mind, as it might be called, prevailing
with the public as a tower of strength
in the coming campaign.
Here is the other "psychological" ele
ment, which will very soon be injected
into the campaign by the republicans
and assiduously cultivated by speakers
and in every way possible until the end
of the campaign?namely, comparison
| of the character of the two candidates
for the presidency.
The republicans will charge that Presi
dent Wilson, bv character, as evidenced
I in his course, is vacillating, evasive and
f changeable; that his policies cannot be
j vouchsafed nor forecasted. The repub!i
I cans will allege that he is an opportunist;
1 that his course in the railway tf-lke is
?evidence that he will seize upon anything
; to perpetuate himself in office and his
j party in power, and that h* will stop at
I nothing to achieve these ends.
From these allegations the republicans
I will argue that such a character renders
him unsafe as an executive and that his
dominance over a subservient Congress
increases the menace to the country.
! There is no question that this line of at
j tack is to be followed with vigor by the
republicans throughout the campaign.
\ Republican Program. >?
1 The republicans propose to go ahead
I upon the belief entertained by them that
President Wilson shook the confidence of
the people in him by his summary action
m the railway strike. They expect to ap
1 peal effectively to the business men and
I to the conservative element in all pities
with this line of allegation and argument
For Mr. Hughes will he claimed the
? possession of a judicial temperament, ag
Rressiveness, courage and directness, as
, shown by his record as governor and
1 judge. His fearlessness in taking up the
? issue ot the coercion of Congress in be
, naif of a section of wage earners will be
cited as an asset of character.
Mexican Coup Anticipated.
Politicians and side line observers in
both parties are expecting a coup by
1 the administration in the Mexican sltu
1 ation some time in October, the esti
I mates .setting it close upon the eve of
the elections. The republicans hear in
| tnnations of it and are uneasy They
<1 ? nnt quite know what it is to be but
fear that the President is getting ready
to hand them something." as they p-it
They feel that the action in the rail
way strike was?to express it politelv
and not use their expression of a
"frame up"?opportune, and while they
are confident that they will benefit in
the end by that, they do' not feel so
sure of some dramatic play over Mexico
which they apprehend the administra
tion is getting ready to make.
High Lights of the Campaign.
At this stage of the campaign, while |
primaries are still impending in some j
of the important states, only the broad j
outlines of the campaign are discussed
the general drift of politics and public I
sentiment measured. Massachusetts I
New York and New Jersey are three of
the big states yet to hold their pri
maries for the nomination of candidates
on state and congressional tickets
Only surface and broad indications
of the trend of sentiment are available
therefore, at this time. They -ire sub'
jeet to revision as candidates take'the
held and specific conditions begin to de
velop. But. speaking generally, and
seven weeks in advance of a campaign
t?lat pl,'2?!'ses 1? he ,he intense
since 1896. and which may produce
many surprises and swift and dramatic
changes, it is possible to talk of what
appears to be in the political atmos
phere.
Trend Toward Bepublicans.
Competent political observers here
whose judgment has been justified in
the past, tell The Star's correspondent j
that New York, New Jersey and Con
necticut seem to be trending toward the
republicans at this time. They do not
base their assertion upon the Maine
election. That was confirmatory of a
condition which they before thought
existent, they say. Maine, they con
tend, was but a block in a political mo
saic.
New York. New Jersey and Connecti
cut. these observers maintain, contain
more republican than democratic voters
They say they can nee no indications of
a change of form in these masses.
BRITISH CONTINUE
DRIVEIN THE WEST;
GAINING ON ANCRE
Gen. Haig's Forces Capture
1,700 More Teutons. Making
4.000 in Two Days.
HEAVY COUNTER ATTACKS
ARE MADE BY GERMANS
In Aerial Fighting English Bring
Down Fifteen Aeroplanes. Bat
Lose Six.
BOMBS DROPPED ON RHEIMS
French Report Capture of Trench
Northeast of Berny and Success
ful Air Attacks on Railroads ,
South of Metz. *
LONDON, September i<V ?
Gen. Haig. commander of th<r
British forces on the Somme
front, reports the capture of addi
tional German prisoners to the
number of 1.700, making the total
number of captures for the la>t
two days more than 4,000.
The continuation of the hattle
is reported in the British official
statement in "certain localities
south of the Ancre river. The
British proceeded methodically
with their attack begun J."rida>.
and the Germans responded with
heavy counter attacks, both
against the British and the
French.
Comparative quiet, however,
reigned along the French section
1 of the Somme front, although th
j French report some progress
north of Bouchavesnes, and tilt
capture of a trench northeast 01
Berny.
Berlin Admits Losing Three Villages.
Berlin admits the loss of Hie large
villages of Courcelette. Martinpuich ,y
and Piers, but declares that strong
British attacks against Combles were
ineffective. It is estimated by the
Germans that twenty divisions, or
about 400.COO men, took part in the
Anglo-French drive of Friday. Bei -
lin says the British made progress and
I that the French assaults south of
! the Somme were repulsed.
The British official statement of to
I night says: .
"Today (Saturday) south of the ?
! ^a.xr^d ?f urthei"*progress
miles on a front of six miles.
?The number of prisoners taken to
riav is more than 1.700. of whom flfty
- ? The total number of
SSSwfJrJRSSw:
?,.sh;r .?<
"Two more of our machine, are miss
ing. making altogether . ix.
! French Take Trench Near Berny.
j Thc teKt of the French statement
""On the Somme front the day was
comparatively quiet. We made some
progress north of Bouchavesnes and
capfured a trench northeast of Berny. A
German counter attack against our
positions between Belloy-en-banterre
and Barleux failed under the fire of our
3&s?',:^rs:
meters were thrown on the blast tur
naces at Utkingen (I'singen?), thirtj
KheUs of 120 millimeters on the blast
furnaces at Rorabae and thirty others
on factories in the Mandelingen district
The same night two of our machine,
dipped /ourteen shells 011 the railroat.
fracks south of Metz and on the sta
tions at Binsdorf. The stations at fapin
court and Longuyen also received sixt>
"r"Last'eevening a German aeroplane
dropped several bombs on Kheims. T? <?
civilians, including a child, were killed
and another was wounded.
?? \rcording to fresh information in
addition to the nine C.erman aviators
brought down yesterday on the hrench
front six other enemy machines ?er
damaged in encounters with our
and were compelled to descend within
their own lines. Two of the aviators
W-On Thursday night one of our squad
rons dropped 106 bombs "t large caliber ?
on the military establishments at Poi.t
Faverger and Bethenivilie. A large fire
was caused at Pont-Faverger. Each of
thf aeroplanes made two trips. On the
same night the railway station at ton
larnv was bombarded with 1.4
SSmbs of ISO millimeters. A large num
ber of the bombs found their mark.
Successes Claimed by Germans.
xhe German official statement, re
porting recent operations in France,
^"Duke Albrecht of Wurttemburg: As
has repeatedly happened during the last
,ew days. Westende was again bom
barded yesterday from the sea. without
the Ypres salient and on the
Vh.r.V narts of the front of Crown
Prince Kupprecht the enemy developed
r lively fire and patrol activity.
??Tht battle on the Somme was espe
cially fierce yesterday. A strong as
sault by about twenty Anglo-French di
vT?l on a <400,000 officers and men) wu
directed against our front between the
' . JL_.I
