w
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair and continued cool to-day and to
morrow; gentle, variable winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 70; lowest, 57.
Detailed weather, mall and marine reports 011 page 8.
IT SHINES FOP, ALL
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 17.
NEW YORK, SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 1916. CopirfonMMB, bg fftc Sim Printing and PuWMng Atioctalion.
60 PAGES.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
ALLIES EXTEND
GAIN AS SOMffiE
BATTLE RAGES
British and French Keep
Up Progress on Both
Knds of Line.
400,000 MEN IX THE
DRIVE, SAYS BERLIN
Counter Attacks. Fail and
Germans Rush Recnforce
mcnts to Front.
Bit! UUXS PREPARE
FOR FRESH ASSAULT
Teuton Artillery Is Suid to
Have Displayed Little
Activity.
j Lu.mki.v. Sept. 16. While fixmuIIiik
I owt of the day In consolidating their
Mr gains of yesterday on the Somme
front and repulsing Gorman counter
attack, the British pushed forward
tl!l moie In the region south of the
Mere, at the northern end of the I
uorr.mc front. j
The French., on their part of the I
tront, made progress north of Boucli-sie-snes
anil are still attacking there. I
The French also beat off German J
Cvunter attacks delivered cast of Clery
tad cant of Berny.
To-day's German ofllclnl statement
'rem Berlin admits that the towns of
Her. Martlupulcii and Courcelette
haJ been captured by the British ut
Ueks of yesterday, and iiya that 400,
0) British and French troops were
a the are.it combined assault. British
uttacks upon Comb!? Itself were re- I
pulsed, says the statement.
British Take -4,000 Men.
The British In the two day., have
'(Vtn all told more than 4.000 prisoner,
of hom IK are officers. Of these. 1,700.1
ol ho;n 51 were officers, were tuken'
o-iiy. , I
Th booty taken amounts to six Rims
fifty machine guns on the British 1
'ront. The French took three bomb
throwing guns. The British brought 1
imn to-day another German kite bul-
a In flame, and complete reports
rtJY th.v they destroyed fifteen Qer-i
.m aeroplanes. The French have!
oiwht down six more German aero-1
ires, m iking their total nlso fifteen.
All told, six allied machines are missing, j
" compared to n total of thirty Gcr
isn aeroplanes and two balloons de-
rojed.
Trie British gains, tuminfil up, went to
'.flith of from one to two miles on a
.rout of six. miles, says the War Office,
"re line now runs ."00 ynr.l north of
'".Jii Wood, ( Fourcaux Wood). All
"Willi the nfelit the British raided Ger
Mn treiiehe alow; thin new front and
V ether 'wlnM, feeling nut the enemy
i)lt!on for new attacks and brlnglnc
'vk prisoner.
KlnK's MrasnKF ta Hale,
King George has sent the following
'elesram to the British Commander In
"il'f, Sir Douglas Halg:
"1 congratulate you and my brnvo
'"Jim on the brilliant success Just
hleved. 1 have never doubted that
vrnplcte lctory will ultimately crown
Mr efforts and thn splendid results of the
1''ti!iir yesterday confirmed this view."
Despatches from correspondents at the
'"nt fay that thus far the Herman
Ninilfr nttaik" have been weak, usually
in ui'. p. hi, suggesting enat tne
troops now on the front have been weak- i
fed by the terrific fighting and can- 1
r"mde. i
It In reported that the Hermans tire (
nining iicuroieement to the fiont In
Jtomoblles from the north. The IJrltNh
runners aru bombarding them as they
Wis and aviators are dropping bombs
:pon them. It Is believed that the Got
nan forces opposite the British, which
re routed ho decisively yesterday, con
''itute the First tlerman Army.
The Gctmsn nrtlllery fire In the last
ti days has been of less volume than
'a several previous battles In the Somme
"lion, the coriespondcnt of Heuter's
ttney telegraphs. Imperially the heavy
Nns huve been less efficient. Tills is
Vjght to .e because of the loss of high
round fur observation and the complete
domination of Urn air by the Allies.
Wording to the Dei man ofllclnl re
wit, the ,ime report hat admits t lie
M of the three villages, tho British
oout Ypres were very active yester
and bombarded the German trenches
"ovlly. Their patrols also were active,
rw tome'hlng i,er a week thesssopera
'. wry much like the feeling out
prieiles great offensives, have been
"rrld out by tho Drltlsh at many
Wiritj. ,,f their line.
The French llrpiirl.
, The Hiiht slntement Issued by the
rrtnc), v.,r ,,inc iys.
"n the s muno front the day was
foinri;ii'ntli ly unlet. We made some
P"iret. imrlh of ilnuchnvesneH and
t'Wineii n trench northeast of Berny.
ficniinn coutiter attark against our
trillion., between Jlclloy.rn-Santerre
'"1 Haileux falleil under the fire of
"" macliiuo giitis.
Tbete whs the customary cannon
on the n-st of thn front.
Dir i-K Pililay night one of our air
'"iT.barillni.' sipiadrnna carried mil the
Wi'iAlng opi rations; Klxty Khells of
miblmeteri and six of 200 inllll
"'ttirs wet., thrown on the blast fur
Mes at I'tklngen n.'slngen?), thirty
Jiflln of U'o millimeters on tho blnst
wriisi-es at Ilutnbao and thirty oth
H'Mr'"! U"'t"TU' '" "'" I""lflliiKn
The hanie nluht two of our machines
"")'pe,i fdiufi.,.,, hhells on the rail
""' " "k south of Mrtz and on tho
"V"11' -'t lllnsdorf. Tho stations nt
"I'iikouii and Longuyon ulwo iccolved
Htv projectiiej,
"d eunlng a German aeroplant
Continued on ecoel Pag.
HOLLAND HOPES U. 5. WILL ACT
AGAINST NEW BRITISH ORDER
Dutch Envoy Has Conference With Secretary Lansing,
but State Department Has No Definite
Plan toMttet Trade Ban.
WAaHiNuroN, Sept. 16. Secretary
rjaiislnc and tho Dutch Minister, Mr.
Jan lupiwrd. had a conference at th
it. . ,D''l,;"t1'nt to-day regarding the
,1 ?JPrlLl,, ordcr eraliilnr commerce
to Holland m, well a to Norway, Sweden
and Denmark. Tho Dutch Minister, who
for months past has been urging the
united States to adopt methods which
wquld bring practical results toward
helping commerce between tho two coun
tries, Inquired particularly whether Sec
retary Lansing had any definite plan of
procedure to meet the present crisis. He
waa Informed that tho United States was
watching matters very closely and en
deavorlnr? to keep Itself Informed on the
various phases of tho situation.
There Is doubt at the State Depart
ment as to whether the new order affects
American goods already covered by let
tors of nesiirancc through tho operation
of the Netherlands Overseas Trust.
At the British Kmbassy It was stated
iwsltlvely that such goods are not af
fected. There Is no change in the Brit
ish policy. It was added, and the plan Is
to allow only enough Imports Into neu
tral stitm contiguous to Germany to pro
vldn thein'wltli mieh a stock of goods as
they consumed before the war. When
themaximum stock has been reached no
more "letters of assurance" are given to
Americans and no more licenses are
giver) to British exporters. This policy
hrw been In force for months.
JIMgr From 1. ft. Consul.
f'onsubCencral Skinner, at London, In a
cable ines.igi dated September 11, points
out that tho order says "It Is presumed
that American good' already covered by
letters of assurance will not be stopped."
Consul-do nerul Skinner's cable was aa
follows :
"Announcement has been made that no
further export licenses or other facilities
will be given until October 1, or until
further notice by the ltrltlh Government,
for the shipment of the following goods
to the countries named:
"Denmark Animal oils and fats, apri
cot kernels, borate of lime, borax nml
boron compounds, bristles, egg olk and
albumen, grus seeds, hair, meat, sago
starches, sulphur, powdered talc, tapioca,
tea. vegetable fibres, vegetable oils and
oil seeds (excluding soya seeds).
"Norway Ileef casings, borax and
borax compounds, cocoa, coffee, nickel,
pitch, sheepskins, powdered talc, tar
and tar oil.
"Sweden Antimony, aprlrot kernels,
binder twine, bristles, curnauba wax,
casein, casing, cocoa, cuikwim!, loffrv,
dried fruit, gums (except shellac), hair,
honey, leather, margarine (raw materials
used In manufacture of), meat, peach
kernels, plum kernels, rice, rosin, spices
starches, sisal, steel (high speed), tea,
turpentine and turpentine oil.
"Netherlands Biscuits, bristles, eggs.
DOBRUDJA ARMY OF
RUMANIA SMASHED
Berlin (lets Itcport of (.rent
Victory. Kneiny Ketreat
iiifr on Whole Line.
liriiu.s. via London, Sept. 16. Field
Marshal vuu Mackenen hs on a de
cisive lrtory over the Ru-sians ami
Rumanians In the nohrudja. according
to an official statement Usued here tu
day. "A decisive victory has crowned the
energetic and rkllfully conducted oper
ations In the Dobrudja," says the an
nouncement. "Tli great battle ended on
Thursday with complete destruction of
the enemy. He Is retreating along the
whole line, energetically pursued by our
troops."
Four Rumanian divisions, one Russian
Infantry division, a mixed Rusoian and
Serbian Infantry division and trnej Rus
sian cavalry divisions were in the fight
ing.
Following the Teuton victory the Rus
sians iuiiI Rumanians have retreated to
the line of Ceruawiila, MedJIdia and 'Con
Munza, according to the Knelnteclm
Valktultunif. The fighting here will
determine the fate of the whole latbrudja
army, sajs this newspaper. The line
the Rumanians ure ald to hold Is forty
miles long and sixty miles north of the
hjuthern boundary of the Dobrudja.
The Russo-Rumanlan centre has been
driven baok more than thirty mllos,
nay a despatch from German head
quarters to-night. Tho enemy was
caught in a deep pocket at Dobrle and
abandoned large quantities of booty In
its hasty totreat.
German, llulgarlan and Turkish
forces have occupied the Rumanian
Black Sea ports of Karapca. Sabla
Ilurun, Jcx Kartal and llanllk and
nearly a dozen Dobrudja villages.
According to a despatch from Bucha
rest, of to-day's date, tho Rumanian
olllclal statement says:
Thero Is nothing new In the. Do.
brudju.
I'nolllclal despatches fay that the Tcu
tomt are now on a linn Mxty miles from
MangallB, on tho Black Sea, to the
Danube north of Slllstrla. This Is about
tho old Rumanian boundary, so the Bui
gars now occupy practically all their
lost territory. Thero Is still fighting
uloug the line through Oltena laike,
Parkeny, Aptast, Mussubey and TJIst
keny. Rumanian guns on the north of the
Danube shelled Knldovo and Vavldoveu.
Small patiols tried to icach the vlllagei
of Kostul, Malka-Varbltza and (loo
maurablfH, but were driven off, Sofia
announce-!.
In Transylvania Rumanian Hoops
have crossed tho River Aluta near Fo
gures, about twenty miles north of tho
frontier. A regiment of Rumanian In
fantry was repulsed there und Austr'nn
reserves withstood attacks north of
Korlom. At Hatseg, twenty-five miles
north of thn boundary, Rumanian post.
Hons wero taken and counter attacks re
pulsed. According to the Teutonic state
men in the Rumanian Invasion uf south
ern Tiansylvanla Iiuh been hulled.
Winter Plan for C'Miup Whitman.
N.V V. Kent. 1. 1'liins to
maintain Camp Whitman through thn
winter hi came known to-night when bids
were linked for lumber, buy and oat.
Fourteen thouhand fiet of lumber are
requited fur barracks and quantities of
feed for tho live, stock also arc needed,
H was announced.'
egg yolk and egg albumen, llxh oil. fruit,
nuta and kernels, gums, hair, honey,
matches, pitch, preserved and canned
goods, sulphur, spirits, spices, starches,
rubbber and balatn, powdered talc, tar,
vegetable fibres and yeast.
Ileal riot Ions r milled lo I'. 9.
"Holders of unexhausted licenses for
tne shipment of goods named are directed
to communicate with tho War Trade De
partment. The foregoing restrictions
have been agreed to by the Allies and
applied to shipments from the United
States. The articles mentioned are those
which have been supplied to the countries
conccrnedln quantities alleged to exceed
the normal requirements of such coun
tries. As stocks decline articles wilt be
removed from the list of prohibition.
"The Netherlands Overseas Trust has
been advised to Issue no further permits
for goods covered by this notice. It Is
presumed that American goods already
covered by letters of assurance will not
be stopped."
i-onsul-flenernl Skinner cubled to-day
that the "blacklist" order had been moll
ified to permit British marlno Insurance
companies to underwrlto tnsuranco on
property of "blacklisted" United States
firms. It does not apply to l'hltlpplne or
I'orto nican firms on the "blacklist."
Officials consider the mollification of
benefit principally to British Insurance
companies, but It will also 'aid "black
listed" American firms In moving their
merchandise by allowing them to obtain
llrltlsh underwriting. Official here be-
lleve the real motive Is to enable llrltlsh
marine underwriters to hold American
I Insurance business and not lose It
through the operation of the "blacklist."
NAVY MAIL CENSORED.
i
i
j Official Letters of I'. M. Interrrsitssl I
by British UMrlals.
I Wasiiinoton, Sept. 18. It was
learned to-day that official mall of the
United States Navy Department has ror
months past been Intercepted on Its way
from Hongkong ami China and opened
and exnmlned by the British censors at
Vancouver. Naval officer said no se
cret Is made of thn fact and that the
confidential communications are plainly j
marked "opened by the censor." Fruit- i
less appeals have been made by these I
officers to have action taken by thl
llovernment which would put a stop to
the practice. I
Inquiry show? that the Navy Depart-'
ment has In each Instance referred tho
matter to the State Department, but It
Is not known whether the matter even
went any further. The practice, how- '
ever, continues and mall reaching here
from the Asiatic squadron In Chinese 1
waters is frequently opened.
PRESIDENT'S SISTER
DIES IN NEW LONDON
7
He Cancels St. Louis Date and
Win Accompany Body to Co-
lunihin. S. C To-day.
Nkw l.ostio.v, Conn., Sept. It!. Mrs.
Annie F.. Howe, only sister of President
Wilson, died to-day In a hotel here after
an Illness of a week with peritonitis.
Geoite and WIIon Howe, her sons; a
daughter, Mis. Cothran of Philadelphia,
and Mls Margaret Wilson, the Pre.
dent's daughter, were with her nt the
time of her death, which had been ex
pected for the last two days.
The President visited her on Monday,
but she was too weak to recognlzn him
and ho returned to Shadow Lawn after
arranging for frequent bulletins from her
bedside.
There will be no funeral service here.
The body will lie taken to Columbia,'
S. C, where It will arrive Monday. Presi
dent Wilson will Join the funeral party
en route. Service wilt be held In the
First Presbyterian Church In Columbia,
and the bulla) will be In the graveyard
adjoining, where Mrs. Hnwr's husbnnd
and sexeral membeis of the family are
burled.
Mrs. Howe's health had lieen impaired
for a long time. She came to a summer
hotel near here early In the season with
Alias Margaret Wilson. Soon she began
to fall.
I.ONU BiiANCii, N. J., Sept, IS. Presi
dent Wilson received the news of hi"
sister's death whlla he was at breakfast.
He cancelled Immediately all near en
gagements, In particular his arrange
ments to speak In St. Louis Wednesday.
Secretary Baker will make that address
In his stead.
The President will leave here to-morrow
afternoon by motor for Trenton nnd
nt 4. Sri p, m. will Join hi brother, Jo
seph R. Wilson of Baltimore, an I thn
other relatives who will accompany Mrs.
Howe's body to Columbia, The funeral
will be at 11 :30 o'clock Monday. Tho
President's schedule calls for his de
parture from Columbia at S:15 o'clock
In the evening nnd his arrival In Long
Branch early Tuesday afternoon. He had
planned another trip to New London
expecting to see his nlstcr again before
she died.
Atrangements for the speech In Balti
more September !!! probably will not bo
changed.
BREMEN SAID TO BE NEAR.
riii-onflriuril Report That Subma
rine Is (Iff Montank Point.
Nkw London. Conn.. Sept. 16. Paul
Milken, manager for tho American In
terests of tho (lerniun Ocean Transpor
tation Company, arrived hero late to
day, giving added liveliness to thn
rumors which had been circulating all
day that either the merchant wubmarlnn
Bremen or the Amerlku Is approaching.
However, he would not discuss hit) mis.
hIoii. Another innn interested In the concern
would not be quoted, but Insisted that
at last thu Bremen Is near. Ills Joy was
manifest.
Olio report mid Commodore Plant's
yacht, tho Vnnudls, had spoken the In
coming sunmnriiio on .nontauK point.
TliW could n6t bo confirmed.
Noiirm.K, Vn., Sept 18, A wireless
messiigu from tho British cruiser Lan
caster lo tho French cruiser Comic,
picked up by other ships, reports thn
capture nf a tlerman submarine lu nol.i
In thn British Channel. The steer a go
stated that the capture or tho bout was
reported by the British Admiralty
PRIMARY LAW GETS
REAL TEST TUESDAY
Enrolment Heavy and Fac
tional Fights Indicate a
Largo Vote.
MACHINE MEN FAVOHEI)
But Whitman and Calder Face
Opposition by Bennett
and Bnron.
New York's direct primary law Civil and otlmliml prorerutlkn or deal
adopted two years ago, will have Its sec- tr In shortwc lght bread will be started
ond test so far as State offices are con- thin week by Joseph llartlgai), Commls-
Cerned nt (lie nrlm.rlAi nn TlleSflnV. ..In..-.. . tii..i... ...f inai,.,H nintrlet
Two yeats ago a comparatively small
proportion of the voters took advantage'
of It. This year It may be different. I
The enrolment of two of the parties. !
the Republican and Democratic, this
year exceed anything ever seen In this
State. In the case of the Republican
party the total number enrolled, ".IS,
(31, exceeds by 30,000 thn total Itcpub
llcjtn olc fur Governor two years ago. .
Returning Progressives Is one explana-1
lion of this, but thero Is nlso evidence
that the voters are preparing lo take n I
greater Interest in exercising their rights
under the new law.
The Democratic eniolment Is ;i,73.
Thn Progressives enrolled amount to 4C,
20. Only those who enrolled at tho
last registration can vote on Tuesday.
Heavy Vote Is Kxpected.
On account of the exlraoidlnary In
terest nttachlng to the Bacon-fnlder
Senatorial fight In the Republican prl
msrles and to the
...LV. , . I
Whltman-Seabury
gubernatorial contest among thn Pio-i,,,,,
gresslves pollllclnriH woulil not lie stir
prised to see a heavy vote polled this
year.
Hie mutest between Whitman and
nomination for Governor; that between
William F. McC
cratlc national chain
Conway for the
for Senator, and
F. Hooker and
Travis for the
for Complrollee
Close Progressive foulest
o ".".'" ..'.. Z1 I the wrapper. It tlieie is an vimiiui .. .. ... rok. bottle, and old
"""" J lu.r ",r 1 niiiniiwuuni, , m,,rk.1i ...riKht nnd the real fr , Friday. At 9 A. .M. there were iuj,
?" ..,nal. oeiween uooeri u icor i nun ..,- ,.., ..roved on accurate on Friday. Two hours later there
W'l Ham 31. raider ror tie llepuu nun - ... i...ir'. iturenn of . . five more At 1 P M there were
I......... .... o .in .i.-israles. Inform the Maors iiureau oi .. pi,. ,,,., ... n iVr.ona. I ln nmre. t i i . .n. inrre wrro
mimuw, mr rrmuur nn, ..m V Weights 5ml Miiuies Immediately." nine more than on Friday and at
centre of the stage on Tuesday. Of I ' ' . two dnvs Inspectors of A recotd for strike arrests was made time the subway was keeping pace i
esser importance are ine con,eis oe- - ; Jad before the Cor- st.rd.iy by Patrolman Reinpo. who the elevated,
tw-een State Senator William M. Hennett Jhls I. rr "i T'J u lo,'atlon, f the gathered In right prisoner at swoop 1
and Oov. Whitman for the Republican porntinu (.ounsei .- " ii,!.,,.m.i Thir,i iwmu .iirf.iee i w-i..- i. i u ui..
'oinbs. foimerly Drmn- '. ' "" ..",.., .,, ,... i seventh stref noll.-e station on various l.'tlt
.alralan. and Thomas p. '" ,7'"',. n ",Vr' any pu bite chnige.. including disorderly conduct. ' Ty ,ha"
Oemocratlc nomination' chandlr- in anj mai K. t r anj ,n nr i,.t- day. At .. P. M. there were
that between James street or other. Place at or u-r a a ,, ;, , , ..,.,, ,,. .,, ....i raiuiy us on the day previous.
Comptroller Kugene Jl. weiglil or measure '.,"-:.' : 7, .... .,. ie Was over. ,,r:1111"' Throughout tho day
RepublicMii nomination tiro or weigiu ineretn. " """,' '. .,. .,.,, f .i,ii,r nrm.,i number of trains were sent
III addition to thse Statewide con-1 o(trr ror M,' tracks and would not permit traffic to
tests, all the present Republican State 'Sn ",r.' .n The Urge baking ' resumed until the police arrived In
oftWr have also entered the Progres- f J'", JrIrlV which are turcc-
lve primaries along with Gov. Whitman "J.1'1 .u !rr,'" JT, , The tactics pursued by the strikers In
and are opposed to representatives of 1 J r f rff ' .l'r,'!U" parts of the city were all dl-
the CConnell faction among the Pro-1 L Vnrit cbult H Idebrand ,r'c"11 i0KV holJ1" un Uamc
gresslvw who have refused to supis.it '" " "Vi,,1 Raking Com-I !'" ,hat mn C"B tra ns were
Hughe or Whitman. ' r , '"'"nrnf""; nr ter and tho O K n,n on th urfc' n,nd a,:ove aml
The Whltmnn-Seabury contest bids I iViV .. 'l' ' .. ' M ""'. "fli"" 1,1 """
fair to be clote and exciting, although ',k"t ' mpan. r.llt un that their chances of sucresi
the number participating In thl- will 1 ,.,m.,piI.,s. . we.e diminishing,
small In comparison with some of the'
other contests. Of the 46,000 Piogress-' "lleslnning Monday morning. In-pec-' Stone Thrower la Srntriu'eil.
Ives entitled tn vote. It l unllkrly I ors of this bureau ate Instructed to a month's term in the workhoue was
mat mor man i...uuu win go to ine
poll. -ellers of bread the we.ght of whlrh T,mM Rodlcan. a striking mntorman of time since the strike. The Police De-
Col. Roosevelt's npvolt..m to Judge upon ;tit Is found to be lei-s than the 01 .,st .-0rtyeconil street. In thn partment tabulated : :ii7.
Seabury. made Unuwn last week, ha weight marked on the wrrip er. The nar,.m police Court yeterday. Redl-1 except at 8 A. .M the Bronx trolley
helped Whitman, so that the latter would procedure w III be under "ectloti 1.411 of .a w.,s convicted of throwing a stone nms had more car's going yesterday
appear now to have a made the better the Penal Code, which .n ikes It a ml"- m,, n Axlncton nvenue surface car. ' than at any time slnc Sunday.' The fig
of It. If Whitman wln this tight, Sea-' demeanor to deliver knowingly ler than Three of the live patrolmen who wcte Wv!l for trie tluve day merelv re-
bury will be a candidate of the Demo
cratic party only.
With the number of l.ep'ibllenns en
tolled amounting to 73,000, politicians
look for the real test nf the primary law
In connection with thu llaimn-Cnhler
contest.
Illfttcultlrs for "Outsider.''
It has often been said of the pt.si-'ent
law that while It was all -.lght lu thenry
it fatlrd In. practice beonuee of the
amount of money rcqulied by a candl-1
date without machine backing to make
a .Statewide canvas for votes. In the
contest two years ago virtually no money
was spent by llns-e optHised lo the tegu
lar organization candid. ite-. Tim con
test between Wadsworth and Cnldrr that
year was virtually a contest Inside the
organltntloii and not a real test o the i
1. ... I. lu r.riri.A.1 '
Entering the race only six weeks ngo
purely as a candidate runrlng on a fier-'
' . .... ' ...
uely as a candidate runi'iug on a pop
snuri! platform, of which universal mill
tary training was the chief fentuie. Mr.
ir.'iiiuns; w n" nin-i irmuiu. .111.
i,aV; rSK.
on, possessed of an amplitude of
Bacon
the
posei!
In
Bacon, possessed of an amplitude of
means, has been able to canvass the
State effectively and procure workers in
every district.
(Slider's Two Veur Starl.
Mr. Calder, on the other hand, has the
pretty neatly solid support of the Whit
man organization lenders, has worked
Industriously for two years obtaining
pledges und at the start of the race
looked a winner by a large margin.
Lately It has looked as If ll might not
be such a walkover for him. Bacon sup
potter Insist that this contest will show
whether or not under the new law an
"Independent" cnndldate for u State of
flee has any chance ugalust the candi
date picked by tbe organization.
The contest which William M. Bennett
is making against Gov. Whitman for tho
Republican nomination for Governor lias
not been regarded very seriously. Sen
ator Bennett has made his tight on a
platform demanding financial reform In
State administration, but he lias had no
support from tho leaders and no or
ganization of his own. Consequently he
Ii expected to poll comparatively few
votes. A similar candidacy Is that of
James F. Hooker of Schenectady against
Comptroller Travis, based largely on the
criticism of Travis In connection with
the Panama Fair trip expenditures.
MeConibs Backed by Murphy.
,Tho only fight nmong tho Demoeiat
III the mutter of Slate ulllce, that be
tween McCombs and Conway, hns not
aroused much attention and nobody In
politics expects it to be close, McCombs
was selected by Murphy at tho Saratugii
conference of the Democrats a a ship
against the Wilson Administration, und
Is to have the solid organization support
through the Statu save In a few counties
In the northern tier, where Conway Is
strong.
Interest uttaches to this fight, how
ever, because of tho fact that William
Church Osborn, who w,aute-d tho nomina
tion himself und would huve bad the
suppott of tho Wilson men, Is supporting
Conway, and so are Franlillu I), llooco
velt and several other Democrats af
filiated with the national administration.
But President Wilson and his cam
paign managers have Insisted that they
were keeping their hnnds off this pri
mary contest, Just as Chairman Wlllcox
and Mr, Hughes have lieen holding aloof
Continued on Ulxth I'agt.
SHORTWEIGHT LOAF
DEALERS FACE FINE
Commissioner Hartigan Will
Begin Citywide Cam
paign This Week.
SWA XX TO TAKE ACTION'
District Attorney Will Inves
tigate Charge of Trade
Conspiracy.
Attorney Hwann will Investigate charges
u,nt bakers of the lower Unst Side have '
raised the pilces of black bread and
lolls uy ,,.reti cncei.lnl action, and ,
will look Into the bread Mutation gen-1
crally
' The D.IU- I'ood lll nice. whne pre.l-
SZLA!t ,Vpre - -
jsented a, speaking for r.n.OOo house-
. . .. . . . sknl the Federal
',,' wh,
Tiu.lc Commission to lnc.tlg.ite wheat,
flour and bread prices. Miss Mary Don-
ur and bread prices, .miss ..iry ...-
Uy. chairman of the New York Kco-,
vice to the public: '
"Insist that ew ry loaf ou buy has a I
.. .... ... . I ! l I If VOII
lanei siaimg mr ni-v ui-.....
, ,..i.. !.,., n i.ut that the I
..., ,. .... ,,. ,ca,., n your '
presence. 1 niter section u "i "
nomlc League. Is arranging for a mass i cnue.i patrolman l cnkk r.r the Bronx At 11 A. M. a drop was recor. aru . nllslljllnpv! fnl. "nju
meeting of women ,o advocate placing Pa, Jjhj. w- 0 tOI SpiiaC fOl DlS
an embargo on the exportation of wheat. uSl rl new the decrease e service nt that hour : net AttOlllOy.
i i 4d,P, ! "t attack perfected by the strlk- I was considerably better than on ! rlday. (
, , ers. a Lexington avenue surface cnr. C. " ," 7 , T ,, I r N
m.. ,i,ii. it irtlir.in elves this ad- hninni ...mi. . t,.t.i I New iork followed the half holiday
Ordlnaii' es wrapped bre.ui snoiiin nute PVernl persons In the neighborhood. Re
the net weight conspicuously marked on re n,y rou1d Rct linrl. ,,,, ,,, cnri
If tueie is sn iiiiii
fence.
. f , l.tli.i li.t.M " Mr liar-
uegin criminal prosrcuuoii m.u.i-i i
the 'lU.intlty represented.
"Rakir. grocers, dellrateseen store
keepers, wagon drivers for bread con-
cenis anil an oilier insiriouiers oi nreuu
are warned that If they deliver a '
wrapped loaf of br.Mid marked with a
weight tliat dues not conform to th"
actual welslit insjiecfors ot tne inii'au
will be served and action begun to
nalUe the otTender.
oniinnnce, which sas ; . ' . :;" . .:: , , , . ::. "
ihrouah civil action to .e nroug i o - ;fc )rM i ,llo ,ubway from ISOth street
the law ueparimeiu. is im . ;..i, .,:"........ i.-,ni., . road, although n most as
"The arrest of a single dr ver of n , Jn. .., VMUy UoiRC (r i I I'm. i ai s are employed as a rule,
bread wagon employed by a large dl-. iIHl."l ' On the routes covered by the Third
tr butln.' firm niay reveal In a criminal ' K. K. ('. VoUllU' lit Kllll'1'OII. ' Awnue mmpany. l4 car ere run
trial what person 'n the employ of that r" ninff yesterday at 11 A. M. This meant
linn Instructed him to sell shortwelght
bread."
The trade standard five rent loaf
weigh" fiom one ounce to one and three-
'Jua
1.1V
quaitei" ounces less than it did four
s ago, air. ii.iriig.in says, ana tne
I. ..Infl. I a .aI.i. I aI ,
iril Lllli lu... n.in "-' ll I.-.!....., till .,u- ;
-'" . . " ' : " i
, "n-'i
.nil t.ln. lllAt. r 111)19 11.1 lh. P al.tnl nt .
" . " ? ' . . . . .
raps-rs miui.eu wiui mr .. ws .
-- .. ----- -- ------
n o., .....
"If there Is any lunlflcatlon." Mr.
"If there Is any luMlflcatlon," Mr. j
Hnitlgan said, "for the lighter loaves
In wheat or holding of wheat, public
opinion will demuiid Federal investlg.i
opinion win nemuiid lenerai investlg.i-
tlon. Federal Investigation might lead
lo an agitation for un embargo on bread- I
stuffs and other food supplies now i
sl.h.ne.1 to belllcerent and ne utr.il rnnn. I
shipped to belligerent and neutral coun
tries." Some bakers contend that they uie not
bound by thn city ordinance quoted
above. They point to a State regulation
adopted by the Board of Tares and
Tolerances wfllch allow for a 10 per
cent, shrinkage In the weight of bread
on Its wny from th oven to the con
sumer. But .Mr. ItHtllgan says that even
If this regulation is more powerful than
a city ordinance the bakers are liable to
prosecution, for the discrepancy between
the marked weight nnd the real weight
Is often greater thun 10 per cent.
THE SUN TO-DAY
CONSISTS OF SIX SECTIONS.
AS FOLLOWS!
rage
FIRST
SECOND
THIRD
General Newt, Auto-
mobiles
Sporting. Kennels , ,
Newt of the Reuits,
Schools, Fsihiom. Gar
dcni.Rral EUtr, Drams
Pictorial Mtguine . .
Speci Feature Section ,
Lditorial. Foreign, Booki,
Queries. Financial, Prob
lemi, Chest ....
FOURTH
FIFTH
SIXTH
Tottl
. . 60
Rtaitn or miadtaltn uho Jo not re
celc all of thtst itctlent icill conftr a
Jaw tn"Tht Sun" h notljytni tf Pui
licttlon Dtpaitmtnt at one by lit pfnm
(2200 Btttuman) and mitttnt tecthni
ulll k promptly JoruaritJ If pastille.
the baking trade should take the public "'VJ, J J Lt... V l,Hn she w is V. t- At the Grand Central Terminal nnd '""', "I- Mit rac.. car that the
Into Its confidence. The public is never ; ) " '-n ,?vCk ami to ' rokln midge, which have been 'a"Hlt "-miianles will leel pinch of
unwilling to give It aid to any trade '"'''"'r" centres of congestion for the tnt i l-er.-.ie..-.I receipt" very elmrt y and will
which Is hnn.peied by conditions over " JlK'"r,' "n' days. It was reported that traffic I1" "'"'J'"' V,Wr lew
which the trade has no control. If tho . Mr fiJ'L'"!. conditions were still working toward ! ,llur '" "f c,.tnprom.e.
40,000 RIVER MEN TO QUIT;
TIEUP WIDENS TO-MORROW;
AIM IS TO INVOLVE 150,000
MAN KILLED, 2 HURT,
IN STRIKE MISHAPS
Bronx Surface Car Hits "L"
Pillar Violence and Ar
rests Increase.
The L'nloii Hallway Compam In The'
Bronx "ue to lead nil the jither
,rnc,l'' companlc- In the number of
,rl1"' .Occidents. Two men were hurt
5'eruay when a car slid off the track
oue .mosi.o.u i-arxway ,
and landed' ncalnst till ploVIltf'fl Ittllnr. I
n ma" taken to Fordhum Hos-
inland , HP to R '
Another man was killed jesterday on
"ie elevated system, this time near the
rordham Road sliitlon of the' Third ave-
siimon ui inc iniui aw
rme line. His body was discovered by
- ...,-..,.
Stephen Stanton of nmliurM. I.. t who
tress was thrown from a window of a
building near Ninety-eighth street.
.."I .. . .
in- iiioinruiiiii nun conuucior nan to
i . n. .i.- ..u .i . ....
H;s. nn.i nne.. i.evn, ., i,.n,r
their wire i-creens became targets for
,n lO'W mey lu.imrii iiirinrvi.i:'. .m 1110
.rv.d out by Maglstiate Nolan m ,
'suspended on charae following their re-
fUf. to work overtime on the strike ye-
trrd.iy were absolved of blame. The '
other two prooaiuy will ne lei on aim.
orkD nilflTD'C UfnsU
KlD DliVACn U YtlUUlt
I
i
"X urZti llnTs" except five of
,ulWMiiiiiee. nn hl..i. half . .in..,,
X. .1.. While She Dines.
I.osii Branch, N. J.,Sept i'V -Mis. (
... ,. .. i. ..,...
- I' HIIS. ll".-" llll....n.
i.... .-I... i..mi,ur .n.i ....ii
,.i,, .i. ...i,., .r
Lll.ll.'ll UltMf.Uf nf.lltlptl fhl tltlllCe III
""-" " . .....
. : ,i , r ..I. i.. i ... 1
,fvxf w; i
11 JJ"1 ,, nfn between J.r.,(Mo ami
...ok i imi. n i- k " J"" -,
11 , w
1n."0".
liable missing.
She n itltled the Long llranrli ponce,
' " who Is vvorkliiL- on the
l- ?,',,,.'', " ,, ,, i
Z,l; ,o n teh ie nd Lmrv men" are
!'"' r ""Vr ,'i. f pf"ni1 Mnr m " re
eUi-pccted of the theft.
VILLA ATTACKS CHIHUAHUA.
Driven Prom City by Constitution-
liaise Ills Losses llrnvy.
i::, Paso, Tex., Sept. ill. Villa at
tacked Chihuahua city to-dny with tlOO
men; penetrated patt of the city, but
was driven out with heavy losses by the
Constitutionalist army.
The Captured Villa followers iveie Im
mediately put to death. (.Sen. Treviiio
was wounded In nu arm.
MULF0RD MARTIN, JR.. DROWNS.
Son of Wall Street llnnker and
( hnuffenr Lost III Sound.
PnRTCtinsTEn, N. Y., Sept. lfi. Mul
ford Martin, Jr., second son of Mr, and
Mrs. Mulford Martin, banker of 7 Wall
street, New York, and Rye, 17 years old,
and A, A. Valentino, 21 year old, a
chauffeur for the Martins, were drowned
in Long Island Sound Into yesterday
afternoon whon the yacht In which they
were sailing was struck by a squall audi
cttpslzed,
All attempts to locale tho bodies or
bout have been fruitless. Thu boat cap
sized on Larchmont and was witnessed
by Bryan Alley, a clubman, from the
veranda of tho American Yacht Club
and Capt, Fisher of Ogdcn M. Reld's
yucht Lena,
A large steam yacht was noticed In the
vicinity and all attempts made by thn
Rye police to locate It also have been
futile. It steamed eastward.
Chief of- Pollce Halls hnd practically
all the jachlhtnoti in Rye nnd Larch
mont ure seeking some clue tn tho boat
and its victims. Mrs. Martin hits not
yet been told of her son's death.
ALL GAR LINES GIVE
IMPROVED SERVICE
New York Hallways Scores
(irctitcst Cain; Union and
Third Avenue Next.
A inaiked Improvement In thu ub-
way ns well ns the surface car service ,
was noted yesterday us compared with
Krlday. The elevated system operated ,
a sufficient number of trains between
11 A. M. and .1 I". M. to carry hundreds
of thousands who were free from husl-
h..u n,niiiiil IIia tiililiftii nf flm ilnv.
V V.,t 1r,.t1t.id I'Aniit-tnt'
scored the greatest gain over Krldny and i
"r 'XiiK
ZM, Avenue ."ms followed with '
rmaller gains. !
Up to 7 A. M. the elevated maintained
i
, ,,mil,fr of trains was Increased tin -1
t(. mlllllrr of ,ranM wn IlcPW1eil un-1
t ols w,r ,K.lnp. Pp,rated at ! A. M.
crowd there were 112 trains going. Tho .
l.irgf.-l llllllluiT UL irillll"- wur. eein iiiil ;
from 15.1th street mid Ulghth n venue, !
Half as 'many were despatched from
Bronx Park.
"un the subway lines the traffic was
handled with more expedition than on
Friday. At 7 A. M. there were seventy-
four trains going, or three more than on
as
were
thirty
this
with
twenty-four
on Frl
just as
or 115
tho largest
out along
and Boston
many were
started from lCith street and Ienox
oven lie and fiom 13"th street and Broad
way. The Interborough Rapid Transit once
more demonstrated Its ability to swing
the elevated und fubway along at top
Ied and key un the surface of the New
York Railways Company In the day
time. For the last three days there have
been dally impiovements. On Thursday
at S A. M, there were 2SC cars going, nt
the same hour Friday there were 32t
and yesterday 33S. At 4 P. M. on Thurs
day there were 3H cats, on Friday 3.12
and yesterday 310. It was at, 10 A. M.
yesterday, though, that the green cars
mil In mi.r nnmlKr ihm n mv
prated the progress of the green car
company on a smaller scale. The high
point was reached at 2 and 4 P. M
when lfi 7 cars were on' on service. That
meant Id more than on Filday and
more than on Thursday.
Bronx Slluntlon Improves
.1 lll.lll V .'111 ..'111 11.171 I 1 ILIUJ n u-.i
figures, but throughout the day then
vviie from eight to twenty nnuv cars
. ... ....I.. ....... C.l.l I....
I going man nu i i may,
.r)lt, second Avenue line, with totnl
equipment of llfty-flve c;
ars, could, not
ts. No nttrmpt
rniuove on ri dav s flcures
has been mad.' to get the First Avenue
...
car" stalled out of the barns.
T,lr tntel borough reported ye-terday
ine nuei ooi-ougu repnrien ye-ierony
--
,,.,,. nmi,P. f pispnBcr?i M,:i0. as
TUG IN RACE WITH DEATH.
Held Ready for Percy Inaals.
Whose Daughter I Stricken.
When the steamship St. Paul of thn
American Line leached Quarantine early
this morning a tug was lu readiness to
take off Mr. and M'S. Percy Ing.il" of
Llewellyn Park, West Orange, for a
dash In a high powered automobile to the
bedside of their oung daughter Con
stance, thought to be dying fiom In
fantile paralysis,
Mr. Ing.il Is secretary of the Publlit
Service Coorporatlon nf New Jersey. He
has been lu Kurope on business for sev
eral month, and as far as any one
known neither he nor his wife has uuy
Idea nf the Illness of their daughter, who
sis 12 years old und their only child.
She Is the first child III the fashion
able Llewellyn Park district of Orange
to catch the disease. Specialist are In
attendance and are making a despernte
fight to save her. It was said at her
home last night that she had Just a
fighting chance.
The child's relatives completed all the
arrangements last night to rush her
parents hern ns soon as the St. Paul
passed Quaiantlne, The vessel wns not
expected to reach her dock until H
o'clock.
SETH LOW'S ILLNESS WORSE,
Specialist I Summoned to Country
Home nt Bedford,
PrKKSKiu., N. Y Sept. If.. Seth Low,
formerly Mayor of New York city and
mm time president of Columbia Uni
versity. Is III at his country place In
Bedford.
For several weoks Mr. Ixiw hsrs been
falling and haa not been to the city this
summer. Within the last two days he
has developed digestive troubles In ad
dition to his other ailment. Dr. James
Whiting, a New York specialist, has
come to assist Dr. J, Francis Chapman
of Mount Klsco,
-
Longshoremen; Teamsters
and Tidewater Boatmen
to Lead Walkouts.
31 ANY OTHER TRADES .
ACT WITHIN DAYS
Xew York Facing Worst
Industrial Paralysis
in History."
pM i i . ip pPTP A7 ATTOV
' R A KAllUA
FOR DIFFICULT TASK
n,.,.:,,,. -ir... c;nn1- TVw?nni
JlllUeSS .UOIl ftCOK 1A lUeilLC
To-morrow mnrnlni lbs Hvmnathv
""lko ordered by the Central Fed
orated Union in support of tho carmen
wHI begin with a walkout of 40,000
longshoremen, teamsters and tidewater
boatmen.
An official ntntement to that effect
was Issued, by tho labor union chiefs
last night nt the Hotel Continental.
The strike of the thrco unions actively
concerned with wnterfront labor is to
ho tho preliminary stroke of n demon
stration which the sympathy atrlko
promoters hope to extend very widely.
They say now that nddltinnal strike
orders will bo received on Tuesday or
Wednesday by 15,000 machinist. 40.000
metal workers and at least 50,000
unionists c thn United Hebrc?. Trades,
und their estimate is that by Wednes
day night 150,000 men will bo idle.
Deapito rumor that the national
chiefs of union labor have assured city
officials privately that there will be no
general strike of such proportions as to
harass or cripple tho city's activities.
Strike lender Fitzgerald nnd his prin
cipal associate. Krnrst Hohm, secre
tary of the Central Federated Union,
nml Juine.s p. Holland, president of thn
Statu Federation of Labor, maintain
that New York will be facing within .i
week the most complete tlcup In its
history.
FUht fur Principle of l nlonl.nl.
There nppears to be no question of the
Hotel Continental conference's Intention
to g. ahead with the Mrugglv now that
all ntbltratlon measures have failed, and
nothing but a sympathy strike stand"
between the carmen and defeat.
Fltrgerald, ISohni. Holland and their
associates Insisted last night that union
labor generally has proved by Its action
In the past twenty-four hours that It
leallioe a tight must bo made t safe,
guard the principle nf unionism lu this
citv and i" willing to accept great sac
rifices for the genet al vvtfare of union
labor.
Tin; Si'N was Informed last night that
thn Continental war board has. In cash
on hand ami p. inc guarantees, a strike
fund of ?2uivuiii with which to begin
operation", and that the fund will b
gieatl.v Incrr-n'ed bv contributions from
carmen's unions nil over tho country
and from donation made by organised
I t'Hlhj- strike the coiifuence has specif
i.ii-or eveiyvvinre. in urging u sym-
n'ally litonn-ed in support all allies,
promising definite Minis for food and
muse rent
Apparently satisfied as tn their finan
cial strength, the allied unions will begin
at once tin It- outlined plan of vvorkinr
up a boycott nt the Interborough, the
New Yrk l:allwa. and tho Third Ave.
liu. line.
They liguie they can dissuade hi
many persons from riding on lnterbor-
Tile ooiifeirnce spent all of j esterd.iv
omanlzlng the giound of tho forthcoming
sviiipathy stilke. Fitzeierald and his
associates vMled the headquarter" of
unions vvhnie a strike vote Is being
taken, made speeches nml piomi'ed sup
port. 1
They devised iiNo a new plan which
they flguie inn) tend to Irritate the pnti.
lie nnd so shorten the period of ronllb-i
They are trlng to organize a strike of
the waiters In the hotel and icstnuruni
having formed the notion that If thci
can gel the waiters to strike, the bote's
and testaiiiauts will have to quit html
ness or mateiially tediice seivic" ana
that thousands of persons that have been
riding nil tho Interbiirougli and ntlui
lines for the purposi. mainly of vi.sltiui.
the Broaihva,v distilct and taking their
meals there will slay at home.
William H. .lover, business agent of
the bartendeis' union, I trying to get the
drink mixers and beer drawers lo wull.
out. The Geneva Association, the lead
ing association of waiter, Is being v
pealed to to Join tho sympathy strlki
'Hie International lneslilent of the bar
tenders Is coming to town to canvass
the situation, nnd the vvalteis' unions will
meet to-niorroiv,
.Vn t ins, nt l.nbor ts .Ncgleetetta
No class of labor Is being neglected
by the conference organizers. Having
accomplished their principal pin pose In
getting the strike recommendation passed
from tho Central Federated Union to
thu locals most dliectly concerned with
tho operation of the transit linns, tliev
are now Insisting that the coming week
will see n walkout of these piinclp.t
trades; Bakers, bricklayers, metal wink
ers, painters, decorators, butchers, cai
penters und Joiners, carriage and auto
palnteis, cigar makers, electrical work
ers, metal polishers, modellers and scilp
tors, planers, plasterers, plumber-, nioi
masons, stone cutters, tile l,iir, tn-unl
engineers, upholsterers, wood carvels and
the Hebrew trades,
Mas meeting have been planned tn
tlr up strike sentiment among these
I
Hi til
1 1
li
11
it fill
m
3
&,l!I-
.a air
v.n.
ii
V.I? I
I
111
ill
IS
l
i
