THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAH
24 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, SUNDAY MORNINfl, SEPTEMBER 17, 191G
24 PAGES
.VOL. XXVH., NO. 121
HDE- ATTACK AMP TAKE PMIEB
V
1
no
COM
DA
GENERAL Hi, C01B OF
. BRITISH FORCES. REPORTS FIR
THOUSAND TAKEN IN 10 DAYS
General Haig, commander of the British forces on the Somme front re
ports the capture of additional German prisoners to the number of 1,700,
making the total captured for the last two days more than 4,000.
Continuation of the battle is reported in the British official statement
south of the Arv:re river. The British proceeded methodically with their at
tack begun Friday and Germans responded with heavy counter attacks,
both against British and French.
Comparative quiet, however, reigned along the French section of the
Somme front, although the French reports some progress north of Bouchav
esnes and the capture of a trench northeast of Berny.
Berlin admits the loss of Courcelette, Martinpuich and Flers, but de
clares that strong British attacks against Combles were ineffective. It is es
timated by the Germans that 20 divisions, or about 400.000 men took part in
the anglo-French drive Friday. Berlin says the British made progress and
that the French assaults south of the Somme were repulsed.
Bulgarian troops, assisted by Germans and Turks have regained virtu
ally all that part of Dobrudja taken by Rumania during the second Balkan
war. Forces of the central powers have driven Russians and Rumanians
back to a line running north of Silistria on the Danube to Mangaha on the
Black Sea coast.
The Rumanians' advance in Transylvania is meeting with still resis
tance from the Austro-H ungarians andGcrman forces. Attempts of the Ru
manians to cross the Alt river were checked. At Hatzeg, Rumanian posi
tions were taken.
Italian troops are succeeding in their now offensive toward Triest, Rome
says. Several important positions on the line of the Vallon were taken from
the Austrians, and the Italians also captured more than 1,000 prisoners.
According to the entente capitals, the advance of the French, British
and Serbians in Macedonia against the German-Bulgarian forces continues
successfully. The most violent fighting ia taking place west of Lake Os
trove where the Serbians are said to have routed the troops of the central
powers. The Serbians have advanced northeast of Filrina and have cap
tured 32 cannon.
French forces have advanced in the regions of Vetrenlk, Kaimaokalan
and Fiorina. Sofia says the Bulgarians repulsed attacks in the region of
Lake Ostrovo. Berlin says the Bulgarians retired to a new defensive posi
tion after the loss of Malkanidze. Serbian attacks on the Moglenica front
failed, according to Berlin.
King Constantine of Greece apparently has succeeded in obtaining a new
cabinet. An unofficial dispatch received in London says that Nicolais Kal-o-ercpoulos,
who was summoned by the king, has formed a cabinet to sup
plant that of former premier latmis.
LONDON", Sept. 1". British forces
Eouth of the Ancre have made addi
tional progress, according to the offi
cial statement from general head
quarters issued la.st night. The ad
vance since Friday along a front of 6
miles ts estimated at from one to two
miles.
Seventeen hundred additional pris
oners were taken Saturday and the to
tal numlier of prisoners captured in
the last two days is more than 4,0i.
Quiet on the Somme
PARIS, Sept. 16. The Somme front
today was comparatively quiet, ac
cording to the official statement is
sued by the war office tonight. The
Fnch are making progress north of
Bouchavesnes. A German aeroplane
has dropped several bombs on Rheims.
killing two civilians.
Austrians Withstand Attacks
VIENNA, Sept l'i. (Via London)
Except on the northern wing of the
Carso plateau, Austrian troops on the
lower Isonzu ar ithstunding the as
saults of the Italians, according to the
official communication issued fmin
Austrian general headquarters today.
The Italians have gained some ground
on the northern plateau and the Aus
trians have taken Bon prisoners.
i Rumanians Retreat
BERLIN, Sept. 16. (liy wireless .to
Sayvillei "The Rumanian army has
retreated on to the line of Tzernavoda
-Med iidle-Constanza," says the Koel
nltsche Volks Zeitung. This line is of
decisive importance as forseen in Ru
mania. The fate of the whole army
fighting in Dobrudja depends on the
combats In this district.
ITinting several columns of dis
patches from the United States about
the effect of the English blacklist and
the various congressional measures
taken to offset It. the Boersen Zeitung
comes to the conclusion that the
American protest is only "platonic,"
and will never go beyond high Bound
ing words. The paper declares no one
in Germany thinks the so-called re
prisal measures by America have been
taken as a return to Germany for the
giving up of a submarine warfare.
"For really humanitarian ends, says
the paper, "America never lifts
finger."
Relnians Capture Tabora
LONDON. Sept. 17. Belgian forces
RLL
. BEFORE THEY
G IN
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire (day. there are 18,000 guardsmen who
WASHINGTON, Sept. 16. All na-1 have been held in their state camps,
tional guard organizations which have These are scattered through out Ala
been hefU Bt state mobilization points bama, Colorado, Mississippi, Florida,
since they were mustered Into the fed- 1 Georgia, Virginia, West Virginia, Wy
eral service are exacted to start forlornlng. Minnesota, Michigan, District
the Mexican border soon, oineiais in-
dicaled today that they probably
would go within two weeks.
Secretary Baker Is personally super
vising all -guard movements. He Is de
termined that every guard unit under
KO border service and training before
it is discharged, and intends to use
the troops in state camps to relieve,
those on the border so that the latter
may return home and be mustered out
of the federal service.
One thing may alter this policy, al
though officials now think it will -not.
That is the lack of funds available for
transportation. Although no account
of the expenditures incident to the
border situation has been made public,
reports indicate that the department
practically has exhausted Its funds and
will face a heavy deficit before an
other appropriation can be secured
from congress to meet the expenses of
the border campaign. If the guard
movements continue It will be neces
sary to have an urgent deficiency ap
propriation bill put through as soon
as congress meets in December.
Exclusive of the North Carolina or
ganizations ordered to the border to-
operating in German East Africa have
a inured labon the principal Uer-
man fortress in the territory accord-
ine to a Releian official communiea-'.
Hon received here.
General Gaade Is Dead
AMSTERDAM, iseut IS (Via Lon
don) General Uucde, Iht commander
in chief of tne German forces In up-
er Alsace, is dead after an operation
according to a telvgram received lrom
Freiburg.
New Cabinet Sworn In
LOXlXiN, Sept. llj. A Iteuter dis
patcn from Atuens t:ays:,
"The new cabinet was sworn In be
fore M. KulogeroHiilos and th min
isters of the entente powers. Its fate
depends upon its milicy, which, if it
is continuance of ire so-called benev
olent neutrality will give
life."
it a short
I
Cabinet Assumes Power
ATHENS, Sept. lt. (Via london)
The new GreeK cabinet, headed by
Nikolas Kal'igcropoulos. assumes pow-
er under tne same conditions as sur-
rounded that of Its predecessor and is
merely a service cabinet.
The new premier, SI. halogeropou-
los is considered one of the most 1
clever lawyers in Greece and has re-1
ceived the degree of doctor of laws
from the University of Ptris. He
lived for a long time in France and
has had close relations with Great
Britain.
M. KalogcropouWis was minister of
finance for a brief time in lM04-f. and
was minister of interior in ine i neo
tokls cabinet of 1U06-9.
The new premier is friendly to for
mer Fremier Venlzelos, although he is
not an active purtlsan of the Veni
zelor party.
The new cabinet is considered here
to be favorable toward Greece's par
ticipation in the war.
Question of Surrender
LONDON, Kept. 16 Ar. Athens dis
patch to the Kadio agency describes
an extraordinary scene in the bar
racks of the Greek troops if! Kirvala
ftr the tulparlnrs had summoned
the city to surrender. General llad
Jopoulor, commanding the Fourlh
army corps, called the officers to
gether and explained that the gar-
(Continued on Page Two
TO BOBBER
ARE DISCHARGED
of Columbia, California. Maryland, with
several small units in other states.
Reports to the war department re
ceived during the last few days show
Ihat these units have been properly
equipped and recruited and are pre-
pared for duty.
Greater Strike
But Car
fRepublican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, Sept. 16. Although
union leaders asserted tonight that
preparations were well under way for
the threatened strike on Monday of
from 70,000 to 80,000 workers in trades
affiliated with the carmen who quit
their places September G, service on
subway, elevated railway and surface
car lines continued today to show Im
provement. It was announced l,v the
police.
Villa Attacks Chihuahua; Driven Off, Losing Heavily
4?
MUST WITHDRAW BEFORE PEACE COMES
P-
n
WOMAN IS VICTIM
OF HEADSMAN'S AXE
BERLIN, Reit. 1C. (Via London)
The headsman's axe wan used
here today In the execution of Jo
hanna Ullmann, one of the par
ticipants In a shocking murder
here last March. Her female ac-
complice In the crime, in which a
Kill friend of the two wan choked,
robbed and cut up, is awaiting be
heading. Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WITH THE BRITISH ARMY IN
IT.AXCE. Sept 1C (Via London, Sept
17.) With ceaseless shell fire from
unprecedented concentration of guns
the battle raged furiously u.11 day.
v itii the British making good theb
advance of yesterday, while the Ger
mans were rushing up reserves fron.
other pails of the western front.
ine demoralization oi meir inmnirj
yesterday by the use of the new ar-
mured motor ears called iuhkh weit
freely confessed by prisoners
whom the correspondent of the As
sociated Press talked today.
" There was no standing against thai
sort of thing," said one German of.
licer.
'Of course we surrendered those ol
U3 who were alive. We fired at i
tank witii our rifles. Our inachin
guns turned loose on It. Hut the bul-let.-
were only blue sparks on tin.
armor. We thought the British slow
and stupid, despite their courage aim
ttiibboi nness and they gave us a sur
prise like this."
A column of German prisoner!
pa-ising a tank rejoicing in the nick
name of "Creme tie menthe'" whici
ha I returned from the battle and wu1
resting from Its labors, spread ou
their hands and shook their heads ai
'they looked nt it, exclniming in i
chorvs: "Meln Gott im llunnnl. it !
under control; It won't break out am
' begin firing ngaia. Wc will neve:
forget our first sight or the thing a.
it came at Us out of the niornln,
mist. It Isn't war. niece of machlnerj
lik that; It is butchery,
To this a British officer replied:
"No it is iuite peaceable and tami
num. It has Just been fed. As for i
not being war it is quite in keepint
with The Hague convention while th,
gas attack nt Vprcs was not."
In such an action as that of yes-
terday, the correspondent, though h"
has freedom of the field and Is in-
formed of the plan of attack the night
before, and although he disregardi
sleep, he find it difficult to get s
full report of the results so Ihat h
can send a dispatch t lie same night
But moving about the lines fron
head'ii'arters of the different uniu
of command up to the point whetf
the wounded and the prisoners ar
being brought in in u fresli orgy o'
striig. herring innumerable account:
r's vi id as the red spots on whlti
handfiges and piercing bits of infor
mation togfther before silting dowi
to write his cable, there seems no
question but that yesterday aa tin
most dramatic dav In the history o'
the Btltlsh army in France.
The Germans themselves were
massing nt several points. It appears
with a view of attempting attacks ti
recover some high ground they lost
The British anticipated the German
attack with their own onslaughts as
sisted by their new hell machine
whose yecret they had been keeping
up their sleeves for such an occasior
as (his.
The account of both the wounded
.British soldiers and the prisoner
taken from nil parts of the line, agre
tii-it the Geiman losses were immense
As a rule the forces In the front Iln-
trenches supported patrols in the shell
centers In the Somme battle area ir
small numbers with a plentiful supply
nf machine guns. This meinis a smal
ler force exposed to atlillery concen
tration in case of attacks.
With the machine guns silenced and
the front trench taken, th reserve?
expected nn'ler cover of the artillery
fire on their side to retake It bv
counter attacks. Thus the Germun
intended to attack. They had massed
large numbers of men in their front
trenches. These were not only car,gr.t
bv ,he .uronse of the sudden blast
(Continued on Page Two;
Threatened
ARMORED GARS
BRING VICTORY
10 TOE BRITISH
Service Improves
A report that the Interhorough Tlap
Id Transit company and the New York
Railways company contemplated legal
action against union leaders in the
event of the strike of union workers
allied with the carmen, called forth a
statement tonight by Theodore 1
Shonts, president of both companies
that "if others suffer through a sym
pathetic strike, It is the business of
some people other man tne lnteroor
IT I
0. S.TROOPS IS
rRepubllcan A. P. Leased Wlrel
NEW YORK, Sept. 16. The
withdrawal of American troops
from Mexican soil is one of the
indispensable conditions upon
which an amicable settlement can
be achieved between the two coun
tries, Luis Cabrera, Mexican min
ister of finance and a member of
the joint commission for the ad
justment of the border differences,
asserted here tonight.
Mr. Cabrera attended an infor
mal luncheon today on the anni
versary of Mexican independence
and said that he had been indis
posed for several days. He added,
however, that he hoped to be able
to return to New London, Conn.,
tomorrow and resume the confer
ence there Monday. He said the
Mexican members of the commis
sion are optimistic of the result.
May Change Constitution
NEW LONDON, Sept. 16. Official
'.nnouncement In Mexico that a con
ention would l held before the close
if the year to consider changes in the
institution has been construed by the
Vmeriacn memtwrs of the American
Vlexiean Joint committee, as corrobor
ited by the concessions made by the
Juxican representatives and that as
-apidly as possible all steps are being
aken to restore normal conditions In
he war-tried country.
Directed by the American members,
he conversations begun two weeks ago
lave had more to do with the Internal
iffalrs of Mexico than with border
onunionn. i ne iiiuiiueuaiictt ui peucc
ilong the international line and the
piestlon of withdrawing the American
roops now in Chihuahua will, it is ex
lected. in time lie made the subject for
m agreement.
, '
OUHV. I
The sessions will he resumed Mon
!ay, when it is exiected the commis
loners will consider the question of
laims of American citizens and the
harges made by Americans that their
iroperty is threatened with confisca
ion as the result of excessive taxation.
J. HAM GETTING BUSY
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO. Sept. 16. Senator James
laniilton lcvris of Illinois left for
llnncapoli today where he will open
lis Hieaklie lour through the norlh-
et In h"ha'f of Wilson and Mar-
hall Mondav. He will follow the
uite taken recentlvlby '"buries E.
lughes to the Pacific coast and re-
urn to Illinois about the middle of
X'tober to close the campaign In his
lome state.
-0IS0NS BABE. SISTER AND SELF
Republican A. P. Leased wire
WASCO. re.. Sept. 16. Temporarily
lemented as a result of anxiety and
iclt of sleep while nursing her four
ear old daughter, Dorothy, ill with
vphiod fever, .Mrs. Andy vandetta
dininistered peison today to the lit
le girl, (o her iulnrK child and also
o her sister, Mrs. W. II. Yancv. and
hen poisoned herself. Dorothy died
nimcdiately. The others will recover
o
Sister Dies and
Wilson Cancels
Engagements
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
IA1NG BRANCH, N. J., Sept. 16
"ancelllng all political engagements
'or the first part of next week, Presi-
lent ilson today made plans for
paving for Columbia, S. C, tomorrow
flernocn to attend the funeral of his
lister. Mrs. Annie K. Howe, who died
his morning at New London, Conn.
The president had planned to sneak
n St. Louis Wednesday before an
inderwi iters' convention, but as smin
is he heard of his sisters death, he
rranged for Secretary of War Baker
o make an address in his place. He
lsn had made engagements to se
'linirman Vance MeCormick, of the
temoerutic national committee, Pen
itor Myers, of Montana nnd other
lolitlcal leaders on Monday.
News of Mrs. Howe's death reached
he president while he was at break
'ast. lie was greatly shocked, al-
hough !e was told several days ago
luring his visit to his sister in New
london. that it whs impossible for
ur to live, lie had planned to re
urn' to New Ijomlon before her death.
AcV'ompa tiled hy Mrs. Wilson and
Or. t?ary T. Grayson, the white house
nhyslcian. '.he president will motor to
Trenton. N. .1. tomorrow afternoon
ind ht 1:26 p. m. will loin his brother.
loseph R. Wilson, of Baltimore, his
laughter. Miss Margaret , Wilson, -and
cveral other relatives, who will go
with Mrs. Howe's body to Columbia.
The funeral party will arrive at Co
lumbia Monday morning at" 11;. 10
Vclock and the funeral will be held
Monday afternoon. Mr. Wilson will
!eavq there nt 6:15 o'clock Monday
'flerr.oon. arriving here at 1:11 Tues
Iny afternoon.
The president has an agreement to
peak at Baltimore, September 25, be
fore the National Grain Dealem A-
sociation Convention and expects to
1111 1U
ra
B.ELIEVE BREMEN WILL
ARRIVE IN FEW' DAYS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW LONDON, Sept. 16. A persis
tent report that the German subma
rine merchantman Bremen, a sister
ship to the lx-utschland, would arrive
here within a week, gained credence
tonight by the arrival in this city of
Paul G. L. Hilken, manager of the Ger
man Ocean Transportation company,
whieh was organized to operate the
undersea craft. Air. Hilken was ac
companied by G. Frusse, who was
credited with having constructed the
Deutschland. the first German subma
rine freighter to reach the United
States. Mr. i'russe was a passenger on
the Deutschland when the vessel ar
rived at Baltimore.
Although neither Mr. Hilken nor Mr.
I'russe would state definitely tonight
whether the Bremen Is on her way
.here, elaboratn preparations have been
made which Indicate that the nnder-
HftfJLV PLEASED
N NORTHWEST
(Republican A. P. Leased Wlrel
ASHLAND. Ore.. Sept. 16 gum
ming pp his campaign for last nine
days in eight northwestern states,
four wet and four dry. J. Frank.
Hanly. prohibition presidential can
didate. In an address here tonight.
dPOlarp() Ihat
assurance of suiiDort
given had been flattering and (hat
he. had noted widespread dissatis
faction among republicans over the
recent campaign of Charles E. Hughes,
'made in virtually the same territory.
I tl'f.t Blulou 1-iuit.wl I . V. n ...Lil.:..
c-iinuancnerM aro Illinois, Wisconsin,
Minnovitt iin.l M..it.... .u-
ine orin uaKota, Idaho. Washing-
ton and Oregon
Our recep(!on everywhere has been
most cordial," Mr. Hanly said. "Men
ana women have vied with one an
other In the heartiness of their hand
(lasps. speed and assurances,
mat incugli they have not heretofore
voieu me prohibition ticket they in
tend to do it this year. '
me inosi signiiicant thing we
nave noticed is the widespread dis
satisfaction among republicans with
the campaign made by Mr. Hughes.
We have followed his trail across
me conii'ient. and have heard repub
..oim mi.v again ana again, we were
. , ..." ' ,,e?ru.. mm "Peak.
couiu not support him. He may carry
JContinued jHi Pag-e Two)
W TH TI
MAKES BONDFOUR CENTS
Cin.'AC(",Casv,f,' f L?8,d ""el
M m. i i fP l' 16--JudKO Kenesaw
of TAoouioi''J w,n,'1a8-s?!,8ed a ""P
Company of Indiana several years ago,
fixed the bonds of the Central Trust
" : "'o munuaiu on
company of Illinois, as receivers for
the private bank of Michael Michniuk
today at four cents.
"What do you want a receiver for.
LIVESTOCK B ASK CONGRESS
I
T IS AUTHORITY OF I.C.C,
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DENVER, Sept. 16. Congress Is
asked to define the authority of the
Interstate commerce commission in
intrastate rate making as applied to
the live stock industry in a resolution
adopted late today by the executive
committee of the American National
Livestock Association, which together
with the market committee of the as
sociation has been holding conferences
with shippers from the west and
southwest here for three days. This
request was made in connection with
a protest against what is known as
the Shreveport rate case which the
resolutions declares was in conflict
with the existing state regulations of
livestock , shipments in Texas.
Earlier' in the day the market com
mittee of the association adopted res
olutions urging the federal trade com
mission to investigate the packing and
livestock industries. The committee
announced that measures would be
presented at the next session of con
gross for remedying, producing and
marketing conditions throughout the
country.
The committee decided to urge the
passage of laws by various state leg
lsiatures, placing packing concerns
and terminal facilities under regula
tlon of public utilities commissions.
Walter L. Fisher, former secretary
of the interior, and counsel for the
association, explained measures the
associalion pronnses to press in i
change preseit marketing condition.
sea liner probably is about due.
The North German Lloyd steamer
Willehad, which was brought around
from Boston a few weeks ago, has been
moored near the U. S. S. Dolphin, out
side the New London pier, forming a
berth inside, and today a patroon raft
with a big board fence, was floated
around to the prow of the steamer and
there moored.
With the pontoon fence in position,
a submarine inside would be screened
from outside views. The board fence
surrounds the warehouses and the of
fice buildings leased by the Eastern
Forwarding company, a subsidiary of
the German Ocean Transportation
company.
About twenty carloads of rubber
have been received here within the
last few weeks and are stored in the
warehouses. The material is encased
in small boxes, marked via San Francisco.
HUGHES READY
EOR START ON
HIS NEW TOUR
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BKIDGEHAMPTON. N. Y Sept. 16.
Charles E. Hughes expects to leave
here for New York tomorrow after
noon, arriving there about 7 p. m. Mrs.
Hughes will accompany her husband
on his coming trip which starts at 8
o'clock Monday morning. Mr. Hughes
will not return to Bridgehamptori again
as he is closing his summer home here.
Beveridge on the Road
CHICAGO. Sept. 16. Former fnited
States Senator Albert J. Beveridge of
Indiana will make a four weeks'
speaking trip through the central and
western states in behalf of Hughes and
Fairbanks beginning October 5. He
will leave Chicago October 6 for Min
neapolis, after which he will go
through the northwest, to the Pacific
coast and return by way of Arizona,
New Mexico, Colorado, Nebraska and
Missouri.
Among the cities where he will
speak are: Chicago. Minneapolis
Sioux Falls, S. D., Billings, Mont.;'
Portland, Ore.; San Francisco, Cal.;
Los Angeles, Cal.; Tucson. Ariz.; Al
buquerque, N. M.; Denver, Colo., and
Omaha. Neb. Mr. Beveridge, it is ex
pected, will close his speaking cam
paign in Illinois and Indiana.
Harold L. Ickes, in charge of work
among progressive voters at the wes-
(Continued on Page Two)
anywayr- the judge asked the lawyer
representing the creditors. "These
I Private bankers never leave anything
uenmu wnen they go
mey go away
T think there is some real estate."
explained the attorney.
"Well, all right, but they generally
take that too," laughed the court.
Michniuk surrendered to the state's
attorney today
Other matters discussed bv the
committee include the pending range
homestead bill which is expected to be
nrougnt up at the fall session of con
gress. An effort is then to be made.
accoruing to uwignt B. Heard, nres-
ident of the association, by friends of
conservation and stockmen generally
to arrange for a complete classifies
tion of the public lands as a feature of
any range homestead bill which may
De passed.
Preliminary arrangements for next
year's convention of the association, to
be held at Chej-enne. early next year,
were discussed.
(Rusty" Talk is Jailed
As Train Bandit Suspect
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DOUGLAS, Ariz., Sept. 16. Flin
Tulk, a cowboy known as "Rusty
throughout Arizona and New Mexico,
w here he has taken part in exhibitions
as a rider and roper, was arraigned to
day before United States Commissioner
Henry C. Beumler on the charge of
theft of United States registered mail
in connection with the holding up of
tne uoiaen state Limited, on the El
Paso & Southwestern railroad, near
!
POT TO DEATH
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
EL PASO, Ter., Sept. 16. Villa at
tacked Chihuahua City today with 600
men, penetrated part of the city, but
was driven out with heavy loss by the
constitutionalist army. The captured
Villistaa were immediately put to
death. General Trevino was wounded
in an arm.
This news was received in Juarez late
tonight, immediately upon the re-establishment
of telegraphic communica
tion with Chihuahua.
During the afternoon the operator at
the station of Sauz, on the line of the
Mexican Central railway, 25 miles
north of Chihuahua, reported that he
could hear distant sounds of cannon
ading. Dispatches from Chihuahua received
here yesterday reported that a feature
of today's Hidalgo Day parade would
be twenty-four field guns. General
Trevino said last week that scouts who
had interviewed ranchers in Villa's line
of inarch learned of a boast by Villa
that he would celebrate the eve of In
dependence Day in Chihuahua.
The hour that the attack was made is
not known here, as tonight's dispatch
to the Mexican officials in Juarez
lacked details.
It told briefly of the repulse of Vil
la's 600 men, the capture of those who
penetrated the city and their death, and
the wounding of General Trevino.
Juarez showed no signs of any mili
tary excitement tonight. A large
crowd of people from the town and
neighboring country, in which women
predominated, promenaded the main
street and around the plaza, where the
garrison band played. In the custom
house, a ball was given by the elite of
the town, with General Gonzales, post
commandant. Consul Andres Garcia,
Mayor Herrera and other officials at
tending. The street crowd was in a
holiday mood, throwing confetti and
firing firecrackers. No troops were in
evidence, except for the soldiers tak
ing part in the merrymaking.
Private J. B. Smith, of Company
E. First South Carolina Infantry, wan
dered across the international bridge
in uniform tonight and was halted by a
Carrancista sentry with a bullet, which
sung over his head.
The flame from the rifle was seen by
Lieut, J. J. Gerhardt, Twenty-third
United States Infantry, commanding
the outpost on the American si.de, who
called to the Mexican in Spanish not
to fire again, and then ordered Smith
to return.
Smith, who claims ignorance of di
rections as his excuse for going to
Mexico, was placed under arresL
DOUGLAS, Ariz., Sept 16. A letter
received today from the interior of
Mexico by an influential Mexican resi
dent of Douglas, states that General
Medina Barron, formerly a federal
commander in Sonora under Diaz, is
now in command of the Legalista army
on the west coast of Mexico and has
captured the state of Colima and a
large portion of the state of Michoacan.
The letter adds that no particular
man is favored for the presidency by
the faction, but many members favor 1
Felix Diaz, nephew of the former dic
tator. The party is described as de
sirous of a policy of non-interference
on the part of the United States with
respect to its opposition to General
Carranza.
. The Independence Day anniversary
celebration passed off quietly in north
ern Sonora, according to reports here.
MEXICO CITY, Sept. 16. General
Carranza was unable to take part in
the Mexican Independence Day exer-
cises here today, being confined to his
home with a slight cold. General Can
dido Aguilar, minister of foreign af
fairs, took General Carranza's place
and reviewed the troops.
The principal meeting of the day was
at the Independence Column, where
Felix M. Palavicint, minister of public
instruction, was the chief orator.
SAN ANTONIO. Tex., Sept. 16
Mexico's Independence Day was cele
brated in northern Mexico in an un
usually mild manner today, except at
Saltillo, where an elaborate program
was carried out. The municipal build
ing and tower there was covered with
an illumination provided by 15.000 in
candescent globes of red, white and
green.
Tomorrow, according to custom, mu
nicipal candidates elected September 3
will be Inducted into office throughout
the state of Tamaulipas.
SAN ANTONIO, Sept. 16. The main
body of the provisional division which
left here this morning for Austin,
camped tonight at Wetmore, nine and
a half miles north of the ctarting point
The remainder, composed of the Wis-
(Continued on Pare Two)
Apache, Ariz., forty miles east of Doug
las, on the night of September 6. He
was held for preliminary hearing Sep
tember 20, under bonds of $25,000, and
is now in Jail here.
Tulk is said by officers to have been
fully identified as one of the robbers.
Sheriff Harry Wheeler, who has been
working on the case In the Chiricahua
mountains since the morning after the
robbery, is said to have discovered evi
dence which will probably lead to the
arrest of every member of the band.
