1m
mm.
DAILY EDITION
.' Z.. 'V..."J.
vol. vi., ? !,,;-
.. t
(HANTS PASS, JOfliCPHlXK COUNTY, OREGON, Hl'MAV 8MTBMBEK 17, 1I0
WHOLE NUMBER 1831.
, No Other Town in the World thr; Size of Or ants Pass lias a Paper With Full Leased Wi re Telegraph Service.
w
ft.
IB If!
DIES UPON
1 111
Paul II. Walters Drops Dead
Friday While Travelling
Along Altboose Creek, 11
Miles Beyond Holland
Paul H. Walters, a mlolni man
vrbo maided at (23 L street la Grants
Taaa, died very suddenly Friday after
noon while on hi way over the Alt-
lionso creek trail to the Potter placer j
mine.
ft- . I ' - I . I - . ILL. I . . . - .1 .. '
.nr. miBi mil mm
cny eany
Friday morning, tolng
Jolnxd at
Kerby by Messrs, Fred C. Furth and I
II. F. MrClellan. and the three atari-'
d over the trull for the Potter mine, !
going on foot from Browntown. The vide for strikes luvolvlng about 80,
party reached Jolmaon'a Point, lli'lOOmen. These strikes sre Intend
mile from Holland, at about four
o'clock. The afternoon wa hot. and
when a ditch carrying Ice cold water age of fuel, walkouta of engineer and
from the creek watt crowed, Mr. Wal- j hrlnglng albout atrlkea among all
ter drank heavily from It. 'After porker engaged In labor contrlbnt
1rlnklnR he nt down by the aide of.lng to operation of the ljnes.
the trail, saying that he had drunk 1 If thla doe not have the desired
too heartily from the ditch, and that ffeet a general atrlke affecting 700.
the water deemed to have Oiled hi 000 workmenboth men and women
lung. After 15 minute he said that j In Greater New York Is eontemplat
he was feeling all right attain, andjed. To meet this, threat employers
started, alongthe trall..Ha had fiueUre aald to be..laylnj.r!na,to bring
but 50 feet when he turned as though jcharges of criminal eonplraey against
to speak to hi comrade, but fell un-jWder who call or encourage sym
ronsclous, and life waa extinct In two iPathetlr atrlke. ,
or three minute. Mear. Furth and Police patrol have been establlsh
McClellnn worked for two hotira Injed along the roof of buildings on
nn effort to resuscitate the stricken Ninth avenue, but despite this, train
tiMin. but he was past all human help,
.Md was then summoned and the body
was packed out over the trail on
horseback to Holland and taken by
auto to Kerby.
No coroner'a Inquest was held over
the remains, n,lt was clearly evi
dent thnt death wa due to congestion
f the lungs following the drinking of
(Continued "on Pnge Six. I
L
Washington, Sept. 16.-Germany
will consider null and void any loans !
from United States bankers made to
Belgium with Boiglun railroads n
aecnrlty, unless previous consent has
been obtained from her, German Am1
bassador von nernstorff notified the
Htnto department today.
The text of the state department's
announcement followa:
"The Imperial German government,
through Its ambassador at Washing -
ton, n.s inrormcn uie siaio aepnri -
ment that In view of tbe statement
that tho Belgian government Is ry -
lug to contract a loan In the United
States, and has for this purpose dis
posed of the Belgian state ronda, any
such arrangement made during the
German occupation and without pre
SilAiia Mfttiantit 9 t k a HAnmnn nrtwnnn. I
ViUUsi vuuai'iH vs. tug vvimnii buu iii-
ment, will be considered null and
void by Germany,"
The ambassador's announcement
enmo an h formal note from the Ger
man government and was given out
Immediately (by tho department for
protection or American holders of
nelglnn railroad securities, Official
said they had no knowledge of any
proposed loan to Belgium, by Ameri
can bankers, with tin Belgian rail
roads aa security. ,
As to the question whether the
German government would have the
right to take such a position, the de
partment said It has treated German
rule In Belgium at a "de facto au
thority," with temporary powers.
BELGIAN
RAILROAD
DANS
PREVENTED
mm FOUR fVIILES OF BAPAURTiE
Now York, Sept. 16, A sympa
thetic strike which uulon leaders de
clare will result In 75,000 worker
leavlug tli tlr Jobs In aupport ot the
striking employes ot tbe traction com
panies, became effective in New York
before noon today.
Twenty tbouiand longshoremen
and bualmon were the first workers
to reapond to the itrlke call, labor
loader, declare that these men will
be followed by 25,000 machlnlati,
who will atrlke before night.
By tbe end of next week, unUai
there la a change In the traction
atrlke situation, union 1110 predict
thousands of othera will be out. They
will Include men employed In all In
dutrc contributing to the produc
tion of power to the transportation
lnpi nj nigy irwa(j t0 include
painter, rarpenten and elmllar work-
men. It la declared.
Preliminary plana, upon which the
union affected are voting today, pro-
to tie up the traction line by
putting off their power through short-
were bombarded with bricks, bottle
and stones early today.
One woman
was seriously Injured.
The bodies of two men were found
on the track of the elevated line
early today. A trackwalker found
the body of a lnlborer on the Third
avenue elevated, but had no Idea of
how he came to hla death. The
econd body was found badly mangl
second body was found bndly mang
led on the, Eighth avenue elevated.
He was Identified by a health certifi
cate on his body as Anthony Rltt, a
rook employed by a firm of strike
breaker. WILSON AGAIN
BOWED IN GRIEF
New London, Conn., Sept. IB.
Mrs. Annie K. Howe, only sister of
PreHldent Wilson, died here at 6:40
a. in.1 today.
Joseph Wilson, ibrother of the pres
ident, and Mrs. Howe's sons, Wilson
' m, tl,,orRPi jlor daughter Mrs. Coth
rttn an(1 M,H8 Mttrgarpt Wllaon were
. 1)lp i.pdslde when the end came,
,MpiL dl,, .l(,noor..iiv.
'
President Wilson waa Immediately
notified.
Information here soon after Mrs.
Illowo's death was that the president
will not como to New London. The
body will be sent to 8outh Carottna,
and the president and Mrs. Wilson
will accompany the funeral party.
Mrs. Howe's death was duo to per
itonitis and attendant complications.
During tho lust few days a Christian
Science woman practitioner was with
Mrs. Ilowo often, but Is understood
to have visited her as a friend and
not profosslonally,
Mr. Howe was born In Virginia
and, like her brother, was educated
there,1 She. ha two sons, Wilson
Howe of Primos, a suburb of 8warth
more,,' Pa., connected with the Penn
sylvania railroad, and Di George
Howe, a professor at the University
ot North Carolina, and a daughter,
Mrs. Perrln Cothran of Raleigh, N, C.
Three More Villages Are Wrested From the Germans on
the Western Front, and Allies Keep Up Wincing
Stride in All Sections Except b Southeastern Ron
mania, Where the Teutons Report Victories
London, Sept. 1C. Allied soldiers
have awung forward on three great
battle fronts la tbe last twenty-four
hours, but have suffered reverses In
southeastern Rouniaala.
To British advanced their center . When' the' last press despatches
to within less than four miles of , wer received from British head
Bapaume before slackening their j Quarters. Halg's men were rolling
great offensive north of the'Somme to iteadlly down the slopes leading to
permit the moving up of heavy artll-! Bapaume, but German resistance waa
lery. General Halg announced thla
afternoon that the villages of Cource-;lne
lette. Martlnpulch and Flers are now!
flrmly In British bands, and that
2,800 oaptlvea were taken in
day 'a fighting. Tbe loss of these
three Tillages was officially admitted
In Berlin.
In .Macedonia the Bulgarian right
win); Is now In full retreat toward the
Scrbo-Greek frontier, according to
official dispatches from Salonlkl to-
day. The Russians and French
oneratin with th ;WhUn. .r id.
i.in.p ,.11 ThitMit..1. ,
iwioft; p Duivvitircn Bliu
already have driven the Bulgars more
than twelve miles. An official report
snld that troops of the three allied
nations have recaptured the Import
ant Jreeo town of Fiorina. The " compieiea me
Ilrltlsh have resumed the offensive oni,a8k ot "" completely the en-
the left wing, attacking villages held i tlre flr8t three llnes of German posl
by the Bulgars after crossing the ,tIona on practically the whole Somme
Struma river under Are. j front under attack. Only at Thlep-
The Italians have resumed i their
drive toward Trieste, and are report
ed to have broken through the Aus
trian line at several places. Ten
tlifklluuli.l A iihitplunu hnl'A VtAi.n Irlll.. i
. . . . .. .enptured Caurcelette yesterday, and
captured or wounded, said a Rome!, ' , ... . , ' .
.... .... ... .Its capture In the next advance by the
dispatch today. .... .,
i'
southeastern Roumanla is In doubt.
Sofia dispatches today asserted that
the Russo-Roumantuns have aban-l
doned the whole district north "of
Dobric, and are falling back rapidly
toward the Danube to escape capture.
The kaiser telegraphed the kaiserln
irom imperial neaaquariera in me
east that Turks, Bulgars and Ger
mans have won a decisive victory over
the Russo-Roumanlana. Official dis
patches from Bucharest admitted a
retirement, but did not confirm the8ong nto actlon Tr,a,9 behlnd tne
claim made at Sofia ot a general re
treat on a 70-mtle front.
Umilon, Sept.
center has been
16. The British
thrust forward to
a twtltifc r.00 viMb nnrth tt Pnliraanv
wood In the violent battle
raging
north of the Somme, General Halg j began rolling down upon the benumb
reported to the war office today. ed Teutons.
The whole of the villages of Cour- Tne flr8t 8troke carrled the British
celette. Martluputch and Fleers arethrough Foureaux wood and into the
firmly In British hands. Five hun-'0utsklrt8. of Flper8 village. Sharp
dred more prisoners have been cap-jbayonet and grenade fighting drove
lured, maKing a total or a.sou uer -
mans officially reported captured In
the first twenty four hours of the re -
newed Somme offensive.
Four Gorman field guns were cap
tured south of the Anne lust night
and two local counter attacks by the
Germans failed. . Though the Ger
mans resisted desperately, the Teu
tonic commanders made no attompt to
organize, a great oounter-altack.
The British carried out many suc
cessful night raids, entering many
enemy trenches at several places.
Fighting desperately to save them
selves from retreat on a mllo-wlde
front, tho Germans have been throw
ing battalion after battalion Into
aetlou against tho storming British
columns north ot the Somme In an
effort to check General Halg's ad
vance. The battle began yesterday morn
ing, getting more furious toward
night. By the glare of Illuminating
bomb men fought like demons
with bayonets and grenadea In the
shell-torn country between the roads
'leading down upon Bacaume.
Browing more and more stubborn aa
British advanced out ot the area
wrecked by the artillery. At that
nour the Tillages of Courcelette, Mart-
yester-i'npuich and Fleers were firmly In
.British hands, British troops had
swept through Foureaux -wood and
were fighting in the eastern fringes
of Bouleaux wood and the fall of
Combles appeared Imminent.
The German losses are said to
have been frightful, especially In the
! I ft ... I k Mi .. a. I . . 1 a.
co-!uou,PIlu wo,,a "Knun' wnere. we
German resistance was rooBt desper-
ate
In the first advance into the
center of the wood, General Halg's
men found heaps of dead bodies.
The British gains ot yeterday link
ed up with the great French advance
val. where marvelously constructed
German works have delayed the
I British advance, do the Germans still
Ihold to their third lines. Thlepval
was outflanked by the British who
oriiisa leu wiug Bppenrs ceriaiu.
News of the British successes,
conned with the allies' treat aalns
ln thj Ba,kans and tne reBUmpUon
jof tUe Itallan drlve on Trieste, have
aroused the London public to a high
pitch of enthusiasm.
How large a part the new armored
.motor car9 arp I)lay,ng , the prC8ent
nrltlSh advance Is not yet known, but
,.... hotiv hi. n- r
terror has wrought havoc among the
Germans. Dubbed the "Willies" by
the British Tommies, the new cars
present a
terrifying appearance when
front had. convinced General Halg of fore mgktng furth(?r ghlpmpnt8 Tne
their worth. aUieg c,ajm the countr,P8 embargoed
The British advance yesterday tol- !,rpadv nave recplved a 8upply of the
lowed a terrible deluge of shells, exc,uded articles exceeding the nor
poured In upon the German, works. ',., dnmp.tin pm.nH
rV.i,i,...tnt t a ..111 a n .1.1 )
;off the map before the human flood
;the German machine gunners from
.their last positions behind the ruins
, 0f the town and Fleers was In the'
poflsesslon of the attackers shortly
oerore noon, me , hardest righting ibecome more lrapatlent for action
occurred on the wings. The Ger- tnan ever now that tney gee a chance
muns clung tenaciously to Cource-ito use slmnar meUlod9 &gnlnBt thelr
lotte, because of its position on thealleged 0pprP8sorB. ;
flank of Thlepval. Driven out of the Thf ,atc department l's also oon
vlllago by a powerful sweep, they ot.moA hv th A.in m
reformed about the cemetery at the
northern outskirts and attacked ttme
and again yesterday evening, In ef
forts to recapture the town.
Near Martlnpulch, a ruined mill
had been converted Into a strongly
fortified position, from behind which
the Teutons launched successive
counter-attacks, '
Joe Galvln returned to , Portland
Friday night after spending a week In
town visiting his father, M. . Galvln,
and friends.
TO
111 Til WIST
III
Prince Hohenlobe, connected with
the Anstro-Hungarian diplomatic
corps in this country. Is expected to
arrive in Grants Pass from San Fran
cisco on train No, 14 this morning,
the object of the coming of the royal
visitor being to hunt and uh in Jose
phine county.
Several days ago the prince wrote
to the agent of the Southern Pacific
company here asking that arrange
ments be made for the obtaining of a
banting license, tor which ; would
call within a few days. Word now
comes that he will arrive this morn
ing, and numerous telegrams and let
ters hare been addressed fccre for
delivery on the arrival of the prince.
It is not known what plans the
prince has made for his hunt, bat it
is understood that he will visit the
Josephine caves while In this district,
and will probsbly hunt bear and deer
In that vicinity. It will cost Hohen
lohe $35 to hunt in Oregon. First, it
Is necessary for an alien to take out
a license to carry a gun, which will
cost him 25. tA non-resident hunting
license will cost hlm $10, more. The
personnel of the prince's hunting
party has not been announced.
WANT ACTION ON
- WashingtonSept l.-r-The British
blockade has again become a matter
of first diplomatic importance to the
state department. New orders by
the British government, which, so far
as considered, are viewed as en-
("oacnmenis on me ngnts or neutrals.
threaten to fan into a live issue the
smouldering dissatisfaction this coun
try has felt over the whole blockade
question.
One effect of the new orders, it is
agreed, will be a more insistent de
mand that this government make use
of the retaliatory powers voted by the
recent congress.
The action ot England In placing
an importation embargo until Oct 1
on more than 100 new articles to' the
Scandinavian countries and The
Netherlands from all countries, in
cluding the United States, Is arousing
most resentment.
Even holders of unexpired licenses
to export the articles listed In the new
embareo have Ibeen directed' to mm-
:muncate with tbe war trade d rt
ment of the TlrlHsh foreign nfflmt ho-
Since congress empowered the pre
sident with retaliatory powers
through the shipping and revenue
bills, the pressure upon the state de
partment to hack up its contentions
made to the allies in its notes on the
blockade, the mails and the blacklist
has greatly increased.
Exporters and Importers , whose
business has been damaged both with
South America nnd Rurmie In the
jtrade- restrictions of the allies have
lies In protesting to Sweden against
her action In distinguishing between
commerce and naval submarines, It
was learned.
This stand Is Identical with that
taken by the United States govern
ment, both when the Deutschiand
cleared from Baltimore and to a suib
momorandum to all allied embassies.
That the note to Sweden is a strong
one has created an unfavorable .im
pression among officials here, In view
of the confident belief In the justice
of the American position.' .
BRITISH
BLOCKADE
COUWTY FAIR
18 FULL '
Exposition Will Open !!sxt
Tuesday, and Every Ifcar
of Each Day Will Be Ed
aH7f4rif
The program of sports and special
features at the fair grounds for the ,
three days, Tuesday, Wednesday and '
Thursday, will (be aa follows:
Tuesday, September 19
8:00 a. m. to 12:00 m. Entering
and placing of exhibits. '
1:00 p. m.Men's relay race, two
miles, change horses and saddles
every half mile. All snaps and buckles
barred. First prize, flS ; second, 10.
' 2:10 p. m. Chicken squabble, $5.
3:30 p. m. Boys' pillow fight Ten
cents each; total, 12. ,'
4:00 p. m. -Fat men's race. Box
of cigars.
8:00 .p. m. Lectures by C. L. "
(Farmer) Smith, the agriculturist of
the Union Pacific system, and 'Mr.
Austin, chief agriculturist of ther
Utah-Idaho Sugar company, at the
Railroad park.- - ; ; :
Wednesday, September 20 .
8:00 a. m. Awarding-premiums
and Judging stock.. . .
10:00 a. m. Ladles' nail driving
contest. First prize, 33; second prize,
2; third prise. SI.
10:15 a. m. Ring ride on horse
back. First prize, $10; second, $5.
" 11:00 a. m. Lecture by Mr. Aus
tin, chief agriculturist of Utah-Idaho
Sugar company.
1:00 p. m.- GreaBed pig. Prize. $3.
, 1:30 . p. m. Lecture by C. L.
(Farmer) Smith.
3:00 p. m. Children's group race.
First prize, $10; second. $5.
3:30 p .m. Children's three-foot
stilt race. First prize, $2; sec
ond. $1.
3:45 p. m. High school class rash.
4:00 p. m. Ple-eatlng contest.
First prise, $1; second, 60c.
4:30 p. m. Ladles' half mile pony
race. First prize, $10; second, $5.
Thursday, September 21
10:00 a. m. Civil war Teterans
race. Prize, gold-headed cane.
10:30 a. m. Men's potato race, on
horseback. First prize, $10; second.
$5. :
11:00 a. m. Reverse auto race,
quarter mile by time. Prise, $10.
1:00 p. m. Foot race, 100-yard'
dash. First prize, $10; second, $S.
1:15 p. m. Ladies' foot race. First
prize, $5; second, $2.50.
(Continued on Page Six.)
GERMAN ATTACKS
ARE REPULSED
Paris, Sept. 16. German attacks,
both north and south of the Somme,
were repulsed by the French last
night, It was officially announced to-'
day.
North of the Somme the French
consolidated new positions and re
pulsed a German attack east of Clery,
taking several prisoners. South ot
the river the Germans attempted to
attack east of Berny, but were check
ed by French screen fire.
Four hundred prisoners were taken
in yesterday's fighting. To illustrate
the heavy German losses, the war
office repdrted that in a single trench
elght-alx German corpses were found.
In addition to the nine German
aeroplanes previously reported shot,
down yesterday, six others were .de
tested and tell behind their own.
lines. ' v 1
