CTT I k MmV.. I T THE WEiBin
RECAST. "
IT SHINES FOR, ALL
nd to-morrow;
d west winds.
y. 78: lowest. 6i.
'ild m.irlnt reports on page 13.
VOL. LXXXIIL NO. 293.
NEW YORK, MONDAY, JUNE 19, 1916. Copyright, 1916. by the Sun Printing and I'ublithing Association.
PRICE TWO CENTS.
WILSON CALLS OUT MILITIA OF EVERY STATE FOR BORDER DUTY;
FIRST STEP OF INTERVENTION IN MEXICO, WASHINGTON THINKS;
BORDER HEARS CARRANZA GIVES U S WEEK TO WITHDRAW
W BSBBSSSStmmBB w W n m thai, Ktf
1 Y. MILITIA
CALLED OUT BY
GOV. WHITMAN
Troops. 10.000 Strong. "Will
Mobilize at Uocknian
Ili'uily for Hie Howler.
OKX. O'HYAX CONFERS
WITH 31 KX OF STAFF
t. Whitman Issued an order last
n'l f ir the mobilization of on division
( ', State National (luard. comprising
."iit 1 fl.OOo men lit Ilcekmnn, Dutchess
e.'jMii I'ion receipt of the communl
t.it ip from Secretary of War Raker lie
r mmmlcated with 1ouls W. Stotcsbury.
A 'Jiitai t-Ocner.il of the State. directing
i m (sue tliH mobilization call, Mr
- . ommunlo.iteil with M.ijor-Oen.
n V o'lSynn, commanding the State
(im Stotcsluiry announced at 1 o'clock
f 'nornlng th.it the entire guard wilt
tv died out. Including thirteen regl-tr.ti'-
of Inf.intty, though only nine may
tent to the iKirder. He said that ,
t. men and the ntllcers woulJ horses were captured. The dead Mexl-
1.. expected at Camp Whitman as soon tt"rJ A ''.w"1. J'lL'T '.TV?"
,,,,.' said to he a lieutenant In the de facto ,
n::e noon to-day as possible. The four i (joieintucnt n arm. '
brigades of Infantry nre under the com- lien. Hell at Kl 1'aso reported this
n and of rtrlg.-Gon. George It. Dyer, ""'ruing to (Jen Kunston that the Mex-1
,. , . , , -H, .lean I'onsul. Garcia, at Kl Paso, had
New ork, HHg.-t.eiK John O. l-.dd. i ,,, M tock un hN raMch , Texais
New Vork , lirlg.-CIen. James W. Lester, leased the ranch, given up his residence1
Albany, and Hrlg.-Gcn. William Wilson, '' " preparing to return to Mexico. 1
jj n j I having already tent his family across. i
(ieurrnl MtilillUntlnn (Inter.
The following order was Issued early
thli morning from the Adjutant-Gen-
eralx office, putting In motion the ma-
chlnery for mobilizing thu National
Guard. A i-op has been sent to thu
headquarter f the companies through-
out the State
In an ordamc with the pro-lama-
tlon of the President of the lnltcd
i-iaies, uaieti ine iMn or .nine,
the calling out under the Constitution
Slid laws of the t'nlted State" a part
of the organized mllltli known a the
.National Guard, to bo impl.jl In the
sen ice of the I'lilted States, the Na
tional Guard of the Plate, le-s coast
defence) command, 's ordeied out for
rii h serxlce, and will nsseinble iur
niant to nrdeis to be Issued therefore
the commanding general division
the military camp now owned and
ahlished by the State at Green
f ."1'ti. In the town of ileekman,
i it. Iiess county, for muster Into the.
'.i e of the I'lilted .States.
I ic commanding general division
i! cause all organizations of thu
? nnnal Guard cullcil into active si-i-
. tn be recruited as soon sis possible
Mie si length prescribed In Section
"l.i'M.i of Organization, U. S. A., and
I- Mi'h'Plel to enroll, subsist, clothe,
intilv. arm, ciilp, maintain and
'iiiiort such organization, and xvlll
in.'l'.e icidsltlnn of thu Adjutant-Gen-"a'
of the State for property and
tr importation necessary for such pur
I en1
lletnlla of the Order.
I- otdtr to carry out the provision
ef M I., liu tlio commanding general
'lix's'm will organize n depot bat-
1) for each regiment called Into
tne service of the United States, and
l .uiihorizi-d to organize h depot c-om-p.nj
for each separate company called
I t i 'no verxlcc "f the United States.
A ilcp.it battalion may consist of any
ti i niier of companies not exceeding
twle The enlisted pc,i"!,o"ne' U"3
d'lt liaitallons and companies will ha
(1 vub .1 Into two classes, to be deslg
I'liinl Ksp.itlvely as Class A and
''i es H Class A will consist of men
t lable to fill Miciincles In the or-
zaiioni nf the National Guard In
ti,.. s. rWi'e of the I'nltcd States. Class
II :i ionsi-. of all other enlisted men,
1 i is a general order and signed
1 "nituand of the Governor.
Lol'ia W. STOTBsliunT,
Adjutant-Geuoral.
T'l.- . hol. e of camp Whitman was
fin in i;ti. siotexliury early this
ti -t .tig after a t ilk with Major-Gen.
f Pi in owr the lelephnni'. Though the.
f War hud ileslsnated New
Ii
i'"ii Island, that was not bind
il l i lie -i.ite guard olllcci'H decided
flip Whitman, as it has been
hands of iiigliieern for several
n preparation for the Slate camp
w.i- lo viart theie nil July 7 with
iilv the entile State guard,
i'.w i-'iurs Hand. Hie headquarters'
n l.e.iiiaiil Wood, cfiiiimaudllig the
'in. nt of the llast, it was said late
lull t I'm- iioollliiil word had been
i
I"
I".
llM
i"i liciiti Wasbliigtiin. and thut
K iii iiiiiie would be gUeti out until
l n is Hcinled as ceitaln. how
"! .M.ijor-iieii o'ltjan and Geji.
il i ll have a roiifeience to-day.
t,i
i,
It I
t '
.ife'wud a gi'iieial inoblllza
i hi i w ip l.i' Issued
il. Vx mill in I imirol Xlnnj.
U ii h di pai intent will have su
"ii "f i.;. pi n ut of the mltltla
t j pr.or t., the State troops
i.i to i In Mexlian border. Of
"i. i tin e i Jim h Island said that
l. oiial Guard of New Ynrlf Is 111
' I'oiiilni'in and that it will b
I in I'lay an Important pait In i
till
ik on 1 1. lionlir
-I'e mill) , nevei in better shape. "
ilmi .las tin, Juliiliinl expression of
''' -''Hi Kiliiail dliusliil, divisional
VJ .t.i it JeiiiTi I. u hi ii tlir, ivoiillnif of
''iv IIiUii , tiliiiiam to (lov.
1 1 u is mmiI o lilm at Major
l u n I' ii its, ins he.uliuartci8 In
' il last nliiht.
"luest for ine lrisii has been
' i for more than tun )eain; In
i f the Vtr.i ("nix Inclilent, In
1 '' mi for any enierseliey, Hen.
iris been ivorldhK utrcniiously
Ctuiui( on AiioMd I'age,
i
til.
I'M
T
f
t.,
in.
BATTLE FOUGHT
WITH MEXICANS
AS AGGRESSORS
Third Punitive Force in
Withdrawing Shoots
Three Carran.istas.
Ft'XSTOX PRAISES
PARKKlt'S COUJtSK
Sin Avtosio, Tex., .lun If. With'
the return this morning of the third pun- '
tlx o expedition Into Mexico, which
c.rossed below Hrownsvllle yesterday
morn In;, u state of war with Mexico was
averted Kir Ine time lining.
It Is un open secret In army circles
that the withdrawal of Major Anderson
and his tie troops of the Third Cavalry
with reenforcements which were sent to
him was displeasing to the otttcers Hnd
men of the American forces. It was ciir
lently reported that Washington had In
terfered and uidcrrd the withdrawal of
the troops.
Ah the rear guard of the returning
American troops was crossing the Illo
jiiriui.le It was tired upon by Mexicans,
aim in the return nre one .Mexican was
killed and two were wounded. Three
nrrnnza Troops Moving.
(Jen. Hell also rcwrted that the S.000
Carranza trootis. with Kmne :trtiiiev.
)aa reached Villa Ahumada, sixty miles
south of Juarez, and that 50U troops had
inoicxl up to Vsletas, twenty miles south I
, of Juarez, last night, and this morning I
moved south along the Itlo Grande,
I Hen. James ParKer ri ported that Gen. J
' Itleiiut, who had declared the American
'Hoops would be attacked If not wlth-
"i.i"n, n.iii uiiHiuieti nis niuiune wnen
nc leceiven (Jen, Parkers reply. Gen
, Parker told the .Mexican commander that
the American troops had a right to pur
sue the bandits on Mexican soil and
that any Inutile moement m the part
of the Mexican troops would menu that
tile' American troops would not only re
, main and tight but sultlOnt reenforcu
i mi nts would be hurried across the river
' to make their stay In Mexico permanent.
Gen. Parker declared that the moxo-
mcni of Gen. ltlcaut's tr'sip appeared
I lorecast trouble and suggested that
Uiey I... withdrawn from the American
lines if he lltlcaut) did not want battle.
Hlcailt Immediately mn... the Hues of
his troop" In an opposite direction from
the American Hoops and a few hours
later .Major Kdward Anderson withdrew
his troops back to Texas.
"en. I'iiiimimi's Miitrnirnt.
Gen. Kunston lisued the following
statement this evening:
"Gen. Parker carried out the orders
which he had received In a manner en
tirely satisfactory to me and In ac
cordance with Instructions which have
been received from the War Pepartment.
"He had puisued the banditH that
raided American territory, drlien them
from our soil, followed them to the other
side of the river, dispersed the band,
broke up their rendezvous and remained
In the vicinity while search was being
made for any further signs of them.
Thia mornlr.g he withdrew his troops to
the American side
"liming the pursuit of the bandits ono
was killed and two were wounded on the
American side eterday and to-day on
thu Mexican side two others were killed
and some wounded.
"Of com so there are those who will
criticise, but they are not fully Informed
and do not realize tin; eoiiM'iiueuces that
would have followed had Gun. Patker
taken any other line of action "
More Itiilil 1'eiired,
A i mi "Ulcers agreed to-night that the
hasty withdrawal of the American troops
fiom below Matanuiratj would not help
the cause of the American forces In tr
Ins to put an end to bonier raids.
It Is believed that more raids will be
attempted and npuits liaie already
leiu-hed lieailiiiaiteis that It Is being
widely circulated In Mexico that Gen.
Hlcailt chafed the American troops out
of Mexico, it Is learned to-night that
Gen. Itiraut assuied Gen. Parker that
he would nuiture. and punish the bandits,
and In the face of that, It Is reported,
the alleged bandit" mid Cairanza troops
are tocether to-day and that no attempt
has been made to nrrert an bandits
Mexicans me eelebiatlng tile retire
liient of the third iuilltlve expedition and
the movements of Carranza troops In
dicate preparations for offensive rather
than defensive oielitlnns
All telephone ami telwiaph lines be
tween the American slibt anil quints n
Soiioia, Mexico, were cut to-day and
Aiiifllcan.'c aie mining nut of Mexico,
I ' II II I it Is I'lrnaed,
Gen. Kunston was pleased to leain to.
day that the War Ih'partment had con
sentcd In give him the National Guards
men, which he akeil fur weeks ago Ho.
Is arranging plans for the disposition of
the militiamen when they inter the Ked
oral service and expects to have such
btlgades iih the New Vork, I'l-nnsylvanla,
Illinois ami oilier State Kiiarils on their
way to Texas within a few iIii.vh,
National (liianlsmen nf oilier Slates
will mobilize In tlielr respective Slates,
when' they will rciTiilt to at least the
minimum HlreiiKth of 1.1.' men to a com
pany anil be eiiilppeil for l-Yileral ser
vice before belni; nsslcncil In bonier
iluiy
It In ('itlmateil that the call for militia
men will kIvo th Southern Hcp.ii linent
1 20,000 men. The Krncrnl plan Is in use
the Kuarilsinen for bonier protection,
with sufficient ri'Kiilars for a nucleus,
t litis releasing the main body of regulars
for campaign work, should developments
warrant a campaign.
NATIONAL GUARD ORGANIZATIONS CALLED OUT
AND THE PLACES WHERE THEY WILL ASSEMBLE
"yASHINGTON. June 18. Organizations of the organized militia (
and the National Guard called out by the telegram of June 18, 1
i imp, viin place of assembly at state mobilization point:
ALABAMA One brigade of three regiments of infantry,
two batteries of field artillery, one company signal corps; Mont
gomery. ARKANSAS Two regiments of infantry; Fort I.ogan H.
Root.
CALIFORNIA One brigade of three regiments of infantry,
one squadron of cavalry, one battalion of field artillery, one com
pany of signal corps, one ambulance company, one field hospital;
State camp grounds.
COLORADO Two battalions of infantry, one squadron of
cavalry, two batteries of field artillery, two companies of engi
neers, one company signal corps, one field hospital; rifle range
near Golden.
CONNECTICUT Two regiments of infantry, two troops of
cavalry, one battalion and three batteries of field artillery, one
company signal corps, one ambulance company, one field hospital;
Niantic.
DELAWARE Two battalions of infantry; New Castle.
FLORIDA One regiment of infantry;. State camp, Duvall
county.
GEORGIA One brigade of three regiments of infantry, one
squadron and one troop of cavalry, one battalion of field artillery,
one field hospital; Macon.
IDAHO One regiment of infantry; General State Fair
grounds.
ILLINOIS Two brigades of three regiments each of in
fantry, one regiment of cavalry; two battalions of field artillery,
one company of engineers, one company of signal corps, two field
hospitals; Springfield.
INDIANA Two regiments and two separate battalions and
three separate companies of infantry, one battalion of field
artillery, one company of signal corps, one field hospital, one am
bulance company; Fort Benjamin Harrison.
IOWA One brigade of three regiments of infantry, one
snuadron of cavalry, one battalion of field artillery, one company
of engineers, one field hospital, one ambulance company; Dcs
Moines.
KANSAS Two regiments of infantry, one battery of field
artillery, one company of signal corps; Fort Riley.
KENTUCKY One brigade of three regiments of infantry,
one company of signal corps, one field hospital, one ambulance
company; Fort Thomas.
LOUISIANA One regiment of infantry, one troop of cav
alry, one battalion field artillery; Camp Stafford. Alexandria.
MAINE One regiment of infantry; Augusta.
MARYLAND One brigade of three regiments of infantrv.
one troop of cavalry, one battery of field artillery, one field hos
pital, one ambulance company; Halethorpe.
MASSACHUSETTS One brigade of three regiments and
one separate regiment of infantry, one squadron of cavalry, one
regiment field artillery, one company of signal corps, one field
hospital, one ambulance company; South Framingham.
MICHIGAN One brigade of three 'regiments of infantry,
two troops of cavalry, two batteries of field artillery, one com
pany of engineers, one company signal corps, one field hospital,
two ambulance companies; Grayling.
MINNESOTA One brigade of three regiments of infantrv,
one regiment field artillery; Fort Snelling.
MISSISSIPPI Three battalions infantry; Jackson.
FLEET ORDERED TO
MEXICAN WATERS'
I
Rod. Atlnnti,. nd,Must Defend the Sovereignty of Their Nation Against.
Ports on
Pncifie ('ousts to He Thor
oughly Patrolled.
A (il ARI) FOR KKFl'dKES
Wasiiinhton1. .lune t Order" nre
issued to-night for the Pacific fleet to
leave at once for Mexican waters, (n
addition fjiir naishlps and three de
stroyers will be rushed to Mexican
port on the Atlantic. The battleship
fleet of ivhlch Vice-Admlral Mayo will
take command to-morrow lll If held In
readiness
secretary Daniels returned to-ulnht
from St. I.ouis and pr.needed at once to
arrange for the nay to lend Its aid
toward the precautlonar.i campaign
which the President opened by calirng
out the State mlUHas. Secretary Dan
iels conferred with Hear Admiral Hen
son, Chief of I iperallons, and arrange
ments were forthwith made for the des
patch of a sutllclent naval force to both
the Atlantic and Pacific coasts to as
sure the safety of Americans on the
Mexican coast lines,
Hear Admiral Wluslniv, cointiiiiinler of
the Parllli; Ilc-et, tnlie live ships and
three destroyers lo strategical points on
the west coast without dela). The selec
tion of these vessels will be left to him,
hut It Is said that the bulk of his effec
tive force will go. At tlio present Ad
miral Wlnslnu's flagship Is the San
Diego, which Is at San Diego, Cal. The Den
ver, In commatiil of Commander Trench,
is also at San Diego. Theso essels of
the Pacific risen e fleet are available for
duty: The Pittsburg. Colorado. Mary
land, Soutb Dakota, St. I.ouis and West
Virginia. The Navy Department expects
lo learn to-morrow from Admiral Wlim
low which essets he lias selected.
On the Atlantic coast the swift scout
cruiser Salem, In command of Com
mander Olmsted; the Dixie, commanded
by Commander Tmld, with Hie Dolphin,
commanded by Commander Leahy, will
leave Dominican waters without delay
and proceed to Mexican ports. Threo
destroyers will accompany these vessels.
Tim transport Hancock will also pro
ceed to Mexican waters to be of service
In case American refugees wish to leavo.
The additional warshlim will doubly iif-
i sure protection to Americans on both
I . ... .1... K, r ... ,
COIISIH, in ionium !' Hie ,1111 I'-'imr.-
inent, especially as the Navy Depart
ment already lifts a number of vesseln
on the spot,
The Nebraska, In command of ''apt,
llurrage, Is now at Vera Cruz. The
Machlas, In command of I'miiniiii iter
Marshall, and t lie Marietta, commanded
by Commander Scull, ale at Tamiilcu.
The gunboat Wheeling, commanded by
Commander Watson, Ih at Carmen, Mex
ico. On Hie west coast of Mexico the An
napolis, commanded by Commander Knv
aniigli ; III" Albany, commanded by
l.lctitennut-Commuiider Murfln; tlio
Cleveland, In command of Commander
Allhouse, and the Yorktown, In command
of Commander Htandley, are ulready on
duty.
obregon urges Mexicans
TO join the
United States To Stop
to Go to
i 'Hill l All l i .Mimii, June 1 V Mexl-1.
con reply to the American call for the
militia to assemble Is Instructions to all
l in citizens to arm ami prepare nir ser-
vice, in case of an International war,
The following inwsaKe from (!en.
(lliregnn, Minister of Win, was lecehwl
by den. Treiino in Chihuahua this eve
ning: "The Mexican liovernmeiit Is convince il
that the greater part of Its citlzciiK lire
desirous of enlisting In the army, so that
In msh ,,f Hn International war they can
defend with arms in hand Hie Integrity
of our sovereignty
Tunnel, since In the northern States,
and esK'clally In the border territory,
there nre being organized bodies of men
to be ready to fight the American army
In case of a rupture of relations, mid
with the object of preventing the fur
ther raiding of American terrltor) by
armed bandits, who seek to Increase the
present grnve difficulties of the general
situation, all patriots should rally to the
national standard.
"Oen. Trevino is aullioilred to make
known to all citizens In the districts
under the control of the division of the
Northeast that they should present
themselves to the nearest chief of arms
in their lespectlve districts to receive
orders and lie Incorporated In said arms
Division.
'This also proclaims that all those
...tin .Ii. ,,tf emutilc tt'MI I... I nil, in. III. tele !
disarmed, and that all frontier com
manders ure to to ordered to prevent
tho crossing to American soil of Mexi
can citizens, whether they be armed or
not."
Cen. Trevino ieKirieii iniu reciiiiuiiK
throughout ine uistrici in pioKrcssniK
rapidly, and that It Is known that, in
addition, he Is n-dUposuig bin troops
that they may be prepared to meet any
emergency.
Although this city and the surioumiiiiK i
seitlon Ih nulet tn-dav. everywhere an
air of tense, anticipation was manifest,
some of the more radical element ile
daring that hostilities with the 1,'nlted
O, ....... ..nl.l.l ..... tw. ,1 . ..Cf ,1,1 1'ltl.Hni.
rii.iirr, iiiuin inn ..
could be heard cxptessing determination I
to "nxjicl Invaders from Mexican toiti-,
tor).
The official repoi t of a ciossIhk of the
Mexican frontier by American troops
about twelve miles west of Hrownsville,
leceivcd to-day from tlen. Naff rate, said
that the Americans reheated Immedi
ately after they discovered the jirepfirn
tlonn to attack them which had been
made by the Constitutionalist command.
(Jen, ICIIzondo telegraphed from San
Francisco HorJiiH, In the soiilhein patt
of the State, that he had executed the
former Vllllsta leaflets, Ciuz, Dotnlnguez,
Aratula and Vusquez for attempting
flight.
EL PASO FEARS ATTACK.
Mexican Troop In Jnnrr Knr Out
number American!.,
Kl. Paso, June Is. Thin city is In
momentary danger of being attacked by
MISSOURI One brigade of three regiments and two sepa
rate battalions and one Fcparntc company of infantry, one troop
of cavalry, one battalion of field artillery, one company of signal
corps, one field hospital, one ambulance company; Nevada.
MONTANA One regiment of infantry; Fort William H.
Harrison.
NEBRASKA Two regiments infantry, one company signal
corps, one field hospital; Lincoln.
NEW HAMPSHIRE One regiment infantry, one troop cav
nlry, one battery of field nrtillery, one company signal corps;
Concord.
NEW JERSEY One brigade of three regiments infantry,
one squadron cnvnlry, two batteries field artillery, one company
signal corps, one field hospital, one nmbulnnce company; Sea Girt.
NEW YORK One division, including three brigades of three
regiments each of infnntry, one regiment, one squadron and one
machine gun troop cavalry, two regiments field artillery, two bat
talions engineers, one battalion signal corps, three 'field hospital
companies, four ambulance companies; New Dorp. (Changed to
State camp at Beekman.)
NORTH CAROLINA One brigade of three regiments in
fantry, two troops of cavalry, one field hospital, one ambulance
company; Camp Glenn, Moorehend City.
NORTH DAKOTA One regiment infantry; Fort Lincoln.
OHIO Two brigades, three regiments each, infantry, one
squadron cavalry, one battalion field artillery, one battalion engi
neers, one battalion signal corps, three field hospitals, two ambu
lance companies; Columbus.
OKLAHOMA One regiment infantry, two troops cavalry,
one company engineers, one field hospital; Chandler.
OREGON One regiment infantry, one troop cavalry, one
battery field artillery; Clackamas.
PENNSYLVANIA One division, including three brigades of
three regiments each of infantry, one regiment of cavalry, one
regiment field artillery, two companies engineers, one battalion
signal corps, two field hospitals, two ambulance companies;
Mount Gretna.
RHODE ISLAND Three troops cavalry, one battery field
artillery, one ambulance company; Quonset Point.
SOUTH CAROLINA Two regiments infantry, one troop
cavalry; Lexington county, near Columbia.
SOUTH DAKOTA One regiment infantry; Redfield.
TENNESSEE One regiment and two separate battalions
and three separate compnnies of infantry, one troop of cavalry,
one field hospital, one ambulance company; Nashville.
UTAH One snuadron and two separate troops of cavalry,
one battery field artillery; Fort Douglas.
VERMONT One regiment infantry, one squadron cavalry;
Colchester.
VIRGINIA Two regiments infantry, one battalion Hnd one
separate battery field artillery, one company signal corps, one field
hospital; Richmond.
WASHINGTON One regimen infantry, one troop cavalry,
one company signal corps; Amcricnn Lake.
WEST VIRGINIA One regiment infantry; Terre Aha.
WISCONSIN One brigade of three regiments of infantry,
one troop of cavalry, one battery field artillery, one field hospital;
Camp Douglas.
WYOMING Two battalions of infantry; Cheyenne.
The National Guardsmen of Texas, Arizonu and New Mexico were
previously called out and are already on the border.
army at ONCE
I
All Natives Who Try
the Hoit'."!',
1 Meuc.ui fm
hers.
of
ll a. .
iiilin-
-phis f,.nl is h,., j i-iiiinm-iii
itleiif
and oltlclats of the iiitmlilp.il govern
ment, who have the colltl.lelll e of the
military authorltl.-s ami have had access
to the arm)' seiiet service rcjiortN of
the last three da) s.
'The situation Ii the most ciltieal in
the lilstoi) of HI Paso. ' .Ma) oi Tom I, en
said this afternoon Citizens are vre.
paling to send women ami children to
n.ifer points cast and north.
I lie mobilization of tile elilhe N.i- I
mm. ii nn.iru oi un i mien stales was
I ir.teipreted as lucrci-lng the niohahllltv
ot an attack on i:i I'.iso by Sti per cent
Mexican civilians ami military after
weeks of antl-Amerlc.iii ilenionstr.itlun,
(illlii.il liiagg.nloi'io ami deiiimcliitlou of
the I'nited States (iovernmeiit ale
stilled up to a fever heat
Mexican commanders, veterans of live
.veins of revolution, and man) of them
! graduates
of the .Mexican Military
Academy, are credited with realizing
th" time honored advantage of tin- (list j
Plow.
The continued reisiits nf the presence
of a Mexican foue approximating
15,000 men within easy striking distance
of l;l Paso Is sultic4eiit excuse for any
precautions widen liiirens of this town
ma) deem necessary to take
The Mexican force Is lepoiteil hi the
lulls twenty miles south of Juarez along
the two railroad lines over which It could
Is- biouglit to the support of the aug
mented garrison of the Mexican town
in weverai hours.
It is estimated that the hlililtn force,
the Juarez garrison ami the clviUns
who have been equipped with arms and
ammunition In the last few days would
vastly outnumber (he armed strength
of Kl Paso, mllilar) and civilian.
Kl Paso's alarm to-night Is so gieat
.i ml so genuine that lien. Hell, com-
I mantling the meiic.ni mllltar) forces
. here, sought to give public
issurance
of safety with this announcement:
"I am prepaicd to meet any emergency
that might arise."
The repoit was leceivcd to-ila) that a
v :,eYi ',T ' l,"" lVi" V,11,i certain prescribed ih iVory ,nut come
"""l ' ) V"v" lnK, U ' "". ,mv'.' of!frm Cen. Kuni-ton's headquarters or
; ..M,",,"rlf. l",l'0,'1"", from the War Department at Washing-
IKiint at tlic centie of the line of com-t , . ,. . . ,. . .rsiilng "I can onlv
!nUMexh.o" U fs 'l, d ,,"r.i;,n "l'"""OM ! say that I have I'leVn glum no reaso " o
t , V.J r " ,,y ii" I ehung.1 ail) plans which may have been
r n " J "1"! " "f I W t"r the governmeiif of Uim
would seriously embarrass the advanced
base of tlio
NamliUlpa.
American expedition at
GERMANS OF 17 CALLED.
"l.nlinlnnieliier" Aiinoiinces ev
Levy of Molillera,
Special fable Ueipntch to Tlir. Si s
I.onpon, June IS. Despatches from
Herlln quote the hoknlanxcificr a.c nn
noiinclng that (lei limns 17 years old hava
Ikcii culled to the colors.
SITUATION IS TENSE,
m m PERSHING
rivn.)ins
in Town Around
Casns (iriindt's Armed by
Carranza Officers.
TO MOVK TROOPS AT WILL
ii i;t:nii(.n n. ci.hmkvm.
Spit ml Cnrmiiondrnt of Tnr St s
CKNKKAl. PmslllNll'S llEAIiqt'AKTERS,
Coi.onia Dt'lil.AN, Mexico, .lune is, via
radio to Coluinbu, N M , .lune IV -"Moi
tense." was the laconic reply of
lien Pershing to-day, when asked about
the situation tu reference in Hie prev
alence nf Cnrranzlptn troops.
It was learned to-day that civilians
In San Diego and other tonus In the
Casus (irandes section have been armed
by the Cairanza gurrlsoji commander
in anticipation of hostilities with the
Amet leans.
A heavy guard is being maintained
mound the. camp here Although the
Americans are confining their move
ments, at picsrjit to reconnoitring along
the line of communication, lien Pi r
shlng will not hesitate to send columns
east and west In case he considers hit;
dunks Imperilled. Such n movement
I which would be made solely for safet)
of his men. might piecljiltate a clash
with tin; Carranzlstas. No alarm Ik
felt over the report that 1.S00 troops
are marching In this direction from
eastern Sonora.
The suggestion b) (leji Trevino, com
mander of the Cairanza forces of the
State of Chihuahua, that no morn Ameri
can troops be brought across the border
or that those heic be not moved to
east, south or west from the linn of
communication, caused but a iljiple of e.
cltement when tecclved hi a pres bul
letin from the border last night. No
changes were made In the ptoaramnie
of ouer.1t Ion iminned out hv (ieu. Per-
hng for guidance of the ottlcers mid
men of his command.
"All) news, If llieic Is an), of (it'll
Trevino's alleged order lestrlctlng the
I ,,..., .h- A.....ri..,',..
Th.. e.,....n.-..ler ,,f n,.. f,.,,,.,,..
rlson at Nueva Casas Qrandcs, together
with his chief or staff and aid, called
on me and we had a very quiet talk
over matters of Intercut lo both of iih,
but I am nut nt liberty to discuss the
nature of the conversation,"
KlnK lieorm- tall I'leel.
Special Cable Df patch to Tins bis
I ..isirinv .InriA IH l.'ini. C!..nr.. t
lust concluded a visit to the Hrltlth licet
which lasted four d)n, He Inspected
the whole fleet during that time and
vhdted wounded sallois at Kdlnburgli
and In In iurroundlng country.
Action Follows Despatch From Funston Pre-,
dieting Trouble All Along the Rio Grande
Baker Says President Means to As
sure Complete Protection for All
Americans.
NEW YORK TROOPS TO BE AMONG
THE FIRST TO GO TO THE BORDER
War Secretary Orders Governors to Proceed Forthwith
on the Mobilization Capital Taken by
Surprise by Action After Confer
ence in White House.
CARRANZA SENDS AN ULTIMATUM;
SEVEN DAYS TO GET OUT OR WAR
JiJL PASO, June 18. Confidential advices were received here this
afternoon that First Chief Carranza hns sent an ultimatum to
President Wilson advising him that if American troops are not re
moved from Mexico within seven days a state of war will be con
sidered as existing between the United States and Mexico and that at
the end of the time stipulated all armed Americans remaining in Mex
ico will be treated as invaders.
WASHINGTON, June 18. President Wilson issued a call this after
noon to National Guard organizations of every State in the Union for
service on the Mexican border.
According to the last reports of the Division of Militia Affair of the
ar Department, the "paper" strength of the entire National Guard ox
cluspye of coast artillery was something over 117,000 enlisted men.
The total number of enlisted men called for in to-dav's summon.,
exclusive of signal corps and medical corps, is )3,ol8, divide'.! as follows:
Infant , fi I 1 C ... i . ...
""' --vniry,
1,040.
A though the purpose of the action as set forth in the fo.jnnl call
is for the protection of the American frontier from invasion, the opinion
prevails throughout Washington to-night that it ,,,,;, t!le p.r.1 sU-,, f
intervention m Mexico. For more than three years I'resident Wilson
has exhausted every other expedient practically i an effort to avoid luch
Washington is the scene of intense excitement. The War Depart
ment was lighted up to-night from the basement to the roof,
from Gen8CFUnJr nnAr?0oA to h"vc ''" Precipitated by a ilia.cl,
effort on ,,rud'Ct,n,r truble 1,11 n,onK R'" rnndH m an
the LThlrTl rlCPOr,S Wer rtCOiml 1,1 thp IP''tme, during
da, but Secretary Haker refused t make their contents pul.lic.
f . 1 1 I ... . n . .
! v;',,"' s.of'""' conitMi
: XU"r
i H W declared to be a debatabl.
ronel im !.,,...: -l ... . ' "nc-incr. in an eiinrt. to
o meet h thm,,,t'" coul11 bp the Mexican ftontier
nre "ed th. T'm C,rc,M l-n,ht thp
Z M of h V h?.Mcans nttcmP " ression Hon. Kunston will
doul !t of I V? "al aU"ri t0 ,l0fPmi the l,0r,l0r owiR U '' "'"'
nous stretch of the international boundary line.
nf .b" .r a"!idplnt,?,i t.hHt the MmUciiiw 'would first aim in tho d.reelion
of the II l g I end d.stnct of Texas, where most of the tecent un.ls luvo
ZIT fT ,7 r. U hM bee" mly ''i''lt f".' th.' uvular army
forces of the United States to patrol.
(Jen Pershing with headquarters at Nnmiquipn, is l..e,l to have
sufficiently estabhshed himself to overcome any force that mnv attack
him. His weakest point has been at Pulpit Pass, an opening m til,. ,,,.
tains, divul.ng the States of Sonora and Chihuahua, through winch a
Mexican force might attack his line ,,f communication. Hecm.tlv. how
ever he ha, pIlCed a large force at the eastern end of the pass am (icn
r uns on has rnnontrntod 0ther large force, including the Stvth Field
Artillery, at Douglas, Ariz., where it could l,c n.shcl t ,h,. vvc-i-n
entrance to the pass.
Note to Carranza Is Delayed.
Secretary Lansing declared to-night that he could nut s.n
the American reply to the Carranza note, demanding an immciliatc with
drawal of the Pershing expedition, would lie sent. many nllicial quar
ters, however, and particularly in army circle... the opinion ,s rm.v 0....
pressed to-night that long before the American reply is set to Mexico
city all Mexico will have risen in amis against the I'nited States.
In this connection grave fears arc expressed fur tile safety nl thu
Americans still living in Mexico. In the last few days, however, the army
and navy have jointly arranged for transpoits to lie ttisheil down the eas't
and west coasts of Mexico in the event of anti-Amei ienn out, aire... to take
off refugees who are able to make coast ports.
Although every State in the Union and the Distiu t ..f ;,l.m is
affected by. the call, not all of the organizations, nf each State aie calli d
out. None of the coast artillery units of the National Cuard is alltcted
The New York State contingent called out, the latgest of any siimi
moned, includes one division of three brigades of tet. regiment's each
of infantry, ono regiment, one squadron and one machine gun troop of
cavalry, two regiments of field urtiljeiy, two battalions of engineers, ono
battalion of signal corps, three field hospital companies ami four a'mhu
lance companies. The New Vork forces are to mobilize at the State camp
at Hcekman, about sixty miles north of New York city on thu Central
New Kngland Kailroad,
That tho action wan decided on sml- -ilcnly
is indicated by tlie fact declared
to-lllghtbytlleolllccrstlletUselve.sth.it lb" lull detail of the .ui,,,,, ,,f u,,,
up to 10 o'clock tills inurnliiB member licsnli.m , inille.it. n i n ,, .
of the Uuuer.il Staff bail not been ap- fested n detei miiiiitiuii on Hi, ,,,,1 ,,
prised nf the President's Intentions. the Ailmimstintlnii t,, ; ,,, ,ii m ,
The gravest concern Is manifested at step, i,, suppress ,. ,, ', ,,,
the Mexican Kinb.i.ssy, where the fcjr . American tcrritur)
was expressed that the action taken la announcing the ,. , ., , .
means "tlio beginning nf the end," ( tinu.il (iunnl Seci et.u v i:.,u,i lf
l.ato to-night the embassy leceivcd a the lolinii nig Matt uiim
personal telegram from lien, ('arr.inzu In view of the dist ,.. ...i,,,, ,,
asKlllg tne siiiuls in enniiliiona in
Washington and indicating that lie
was totally in the dark as to the sli ps
I taken by the President to-day.
. The telegram added, however, th.u
' there appeared to be a state of mine or
less excitement throughout the ninth
ern States of Mexico in the vicinit) nf
1 ,nu bo,',u'r ni"' t-'tirrntiAi stated thut ut
' Mexico city the cause nf the ll-tui li-
linen was not known.
F.llsen Artriliindn, Mexican AiiiImis
ador Designate, wired in reply ghing
e,, artillery. 9,)'2, and
engineer.:.
f Z"!Z, ,,. ,,,
-
m.l..i s.. i 1....1 .
un die McMr.iu ImiiM ,in,i
n in .lie
In .issllle tiililpiete pi . n , , 1 1, ei fm
Alllcrli.llls. ihr I'li s.il. in ui- all, d
"ill siiiislaiiti.illv all th.. St i'e
tllillti.is in. I will s, n, : ',, .,, :,, I,,,
l'nll'l Wlli'l'l'Vl'l and as It.' I i l.
l''unliiii ih tel in in s i r.-tn t .
Iiceile.i
If a'l ite mil ncediil Mi . fl r 1 villi
iir 'ii.nle tn leleve tl "si on duty
innn i.uie I" tune . a i.i iiin imp
.lie dull
This c u.l tin im Itia us wholly
I
