"-WWWfp!
r'
NIGHT
EXTRA
ituetimg
FINANCIAL EDITION
ijitbatt
NIGHT
EXTRA
roh. n. no.
239
PHILADELPHIA, MONDAY, J.UN 15), IDIG.
Corimoni, 1010, at tni rnuo Lxnou Courifit.
PltlOE ONE CENT
il
if
f '
II
UlKi.
CARRANZA MUST BACK DOWN
ON WAR THREATS; U. S. CALLS
OUT GUARD TO FORCE STAND
f 100,000 Guardsmen Will Be Added to
Forces to Meet Possible 'Further
Aggression' ' Mexicans
Prepare for Attack
Machine Guns Placed at Neuvo Laredo, Near Line, While
Mexicans Flock- to uarranza standard, Aroused
by Wilson's Move Aid Dispatched to
Pershing's Forces
WASHINGTON, June 19. The reply of the United States to
fr the demand of General Carranza that the United States withdraw
its forces from Mexico has been sent forward to the head of the de
. facto Government in Mexico City. The text of the communication,
"Vhich specifically declines to meet the request of the "First Chief,"
will be made public here so soon as the department receives word
that it is in the hands of Carranza.
LAREDO, Tex., June 19. Manuel Garza Vigil, former editor
of a Mexican newspaper in this city, arrived today in Nucvo Laredo
with 16 three-inch field pieces and 200 artillerymen to reinforce the
Carranza garrison there.
it- SAN ANTONIO, June 19. General Funston said this afternoon
' that the National Guard would be mobilized in its respective States
m .ml thai its mcmbershiti would be sent to the border onlv when he
calls for the various State detachments. He added that it would
probably be some time before any of these troops reach the border.
LAREDO, Tex., June 19. Nearly one hundred Mexicans have
been deported within the last 48 hours. Tense feeling exists here
over the Mexican situation.
President Wilson, oidering the bulk ot the National Guard of tho United
.States mobilized for Mexican service, gives notice to First Chief Carranza
that he must recede from his present belligerent attitude or this country will
proceed to "clean up" Mexico.
Eespon&es aro pouring into the "War Department showing that the Presi
dent's order, issued late yesterday, is meeting with prompt response. Many of
the guardsmen are on the move to camp.
That attack from tho Mexicans is expected is indicated in this clause from
$e Pjqslenr'$ mdbilization order: "In view of the possible further aggression
Open the territory of the Unitqd States.."
s General Francisco Serrano, Mexican Chlef-of-Stnff, has reached Juarei,
irid if is believed he is preparing to lead the attack on the American forces.
Carranza troops in jargo numbers aro reported massing near El Vallo
ready to cut General Pershing's lines between Colonia Dublan and Nnmiquipa.
General Funston is rushing aid to Pershing.
Virtually 100,000 Guardsmon .will be added to the" forces along the border.
Action of Congress will be necessary before these troops can enter Mexico. Their
presence, however, will release 30,000 regulars now in border patrol. There aro
80,000 men now in service on the frontier.
Thero aro approximately G0.000 Carranza troops in Northern Mexico.
Additional units of the American fleet have been ordered to tho West and
East coasts of Mexico. Seven vessels of tho Atlantic contingent and the entire
Pacific squadron have orders to sail. Tho Mexican "fleet" is tied up in New
Orleans harbor.
Carranza forces are massing about Colonia Dublan ready to strike General
Pershing's forces there. All citizens arc being armed. Juarez, it is said, will be
evacuated.
General Pershing defied Carranza 's order that he not movo to the south,
east, or west, by sending out two sorties Sunday.
Ofllcidls Believe War Inevitable
WASHINGTON, June 10. Official cricles, with the possible exception
of President Wilson and Secretaries Lansing and Baker, this afternoon con-
lider war wth Mexico inlvitable. General Carranza is expected to force the
pksue' within tho next fqw days, possibly within the next few hours. This
& Government has sent its reply to tho Carranza note of May 22, in which .the
w?i cmer insqlently demanded tho withdrawal of the American punitive
.expedition into Mexico. It is n flnt refusal to eomnlv and in nririitinn wnrns
' ffie de facto Government against any overt acts of war.
lhe Administration has asked Congress specifically to authorize the use
f "the organized militia in Mexico. This action, cdngressional leaders declare,
ton be construed in Mexico'as tantamount to a declaration of war. They declare
that It simply emphasizes the extreme seriousness of the situation.
s- President Wilson and the men closest to him' deny any change in their
I'lAltS A IlfiV in HI of" t Vint 4-li a wa nn wintTi nnnnoo1 tiimnlata InfAmrnnUAn
j Way aever. But they alsb admit that every preparation is being 'made for
fly contingency, no matter how serjous.
, With the TJoliticn rnnvunMnne mif nf Vip wnv. Arlmlnlqtrnt Inn nf flnlnta rli.
' CJarfd that there VnilM ha tin fn,-V,a. nnrlnvini with tha Mnvlrnnn fTnrrnnTa
e knswg the position of this Government, He knows, officials say, just what are
w ntentionj of the Unjted States. But they point out that his treasury is
Nnkmpt, that there is great opposition to him in the ranks of his own followers,
snd they believe that he has deliberately precipitated the present crisis in order
Miner to prove to the Mexican people that he cannot force the withdrawal of
. "6 Americans fir fn unlfa tViam oil armtnat n rnmmnn nnamv in iha hnnn flint.
- "f so doing, if peace eventually is restored, either through some form of medi-
won. oy other Latin-American nations or through a surrender to the Americans,
e will benefit
f
TO PROTECT COLONIES.
ff Tha n4in .. . ... ..
" """' i ufmea torcea to Mexico
wy and Tamplco to protect the largo
American mlnnl.o !.... .... .i.
. K tha long-hostile Murlratl nnniilaxa was
fewsa d the chief problems under discussion
;-....,, vutiea loaay.
i.k many Amer':ana concentrated In
tqeJe two rcntroa o. ,li , i !
Mlfio, would be wholly at the mercy of
qicana gnould General Carranxa
mr oaf hia th.i i i. .... i
fjtogether These uarrt u,i k ,.
p.?eo in part at least pf the. ever-ready
I ,hw,. Twenty.na hundred of these
wopa already . ,n ,(U ftnd th9 Do,
Wsfcan: republic within easy striking dls
w ef the east coast of Mexico should
"w ryices be detnanded.
WORK MB wminmid
While the War nn.iptm.i .. .1
' t!. MUvU'' to N-y Pepartment bus
mu uiacuve Sixteen additional war
Mt todajt are either on their way to
MMkaa wter or are about $0 set sail.
the 1 east coast are bound the transport
2zLrom yll9JeJBh!a, the scout cruiser
JJa from auantanamo. th unboat Dot
Vh9.aA the Umupon Banwifc from Saato
ta4 Ju, fw, 'Cetaw'
fltauor Smith Asks Display
of Flags by PMladelphiana
The President of the United
States having, under his constitu
tional power, called to the colors the
Organized militia and National Guard
of tho several states, and the Gov
ernor of Pennsylvania, responding to
such call, haying Issued orders for
such mobilization throughout the
State, as Mayor of the city of Phila
delphia, birthplace of the nation,
fpllowing long-established precedent,
I call upon all citizens to display the
national colors on .business buildings
tind dwellings during this period of
military activity, n defense of the
nation's honor, that once more the
city of the declaration, the consti
tution and tha flag may testify to
the nation at large the virility of its
Jong-establishpd reputation for loy
alty and its hearty sympathy with
the President in all measures neus
sary to the preservation of national
honor and the protection of Ameri
can life and property
THOMAS B. SMITH
PURPOSE OF CALL TO GUARDSMEN
ANNOUNCED BY WAR SECRETARY
Ifi view of the disturbed conditions on tho Mexican border and in order
to assure comploto protection for nil Americans, tho President has called
out substantially nil tho State militia and yjll send them to tho border,
wherever and as fully ns General Funston determines them to bo needed
for the purpose stated.
If nil aro not needed, nn effort will be made to relievo those on duty
thero from tlmo to time, so as to distribute the duty.
This call for militia is wholly unrelntcd to General Pershing's expe
dition and contemplates no additional entry into Mexico, except ns may bo
necessary to pursue bandits who attempt outrages on Aniericnn soil.
Tho militia nre being called out so as to teavo somo troops In the several
States. They will be mobilized at their home stntlons, where necessary re
cruiting can bo done. Statement 61 Secretary of War Baker.
LEADER OF PHILADELPHIA GUARDSMEN
Brig. Gen. William G. Price, commander of the -1st Brigade, N. G. P,
who has "his men rendy for instant service in response to President
Wilson's call mobilizing all the citizen soldiery of tho United States
for duty along the Mexican border.
CARRANZA ORDERS
U. S. MARINES dFF
MEXICAN SHORES
Note to Lansing Forbids
Landing of Any for Fear
of Attack
REPORTS MAZATLAN ROW
WASHINGTON?, June 19 The Mexican
Goernment, through Ambassador Designate
Arredondo admitted shortly before noon
Department that orders be Issued to tho
commanders of all United States warships
8n Mexican wafers not to land any men at
any point on Mexican soil. Ambassador
Arrendondo admitted shortly before noon
that he had made such a "request" by. order
of General Carranza. He said that the re
quest was mqde. to preent certain attack
against any American marines or seamen,
should tlrey land.
The Mexican, embassy also confirms re
ports of a clash betvn American soldiers
and Mexicans In Mazatlan. In which two
Mexicans were wounded and two American
officers taken, prisoners. According to the
embassy officials, the American officers were
released. x
FEAR OF ATTACK.
"It Is to prevent any such occurrence In
iha future that we have asked that AmerU
can sailors be kept on board of their ves
sels." said Arfedondo.
"My Government. In the note delivered by
us tq the State Department this morning-,
requests 'thai the American Government
issue orders prohibiting: any naval officer
or man frem landlpg" on Mexican soil of
either 'coast at the present time," he said.
- "This 1 desired" to? prevent possible con
flicts between the military of the two na
tions.
wur advices concerntnr tha Maxatlan
right, received, from General Mexla. com
mandant Of Maxatlan. stated that a launch
bearing American naval officers and men
approached the shore and ver warned
off, being told .they should not land until
the Mexican oJHcijUa had communicated
wlti &Ur GUy oe launch went away
RUSSIANS WITHIN
FORTY-FOUR MILES
OF LEMBERG GOAL
Slav Troops Pour Into
Czernowitz While Aus-
trians Flee in Disorder
BRUSILOFF PR IVES FOE
1 t
BERLIN, June 19. Admission that
the Russians in their offensive opposite
the railroad centre of Kovel are making
progress is made in the official state
ment ,of. the War Office tcday. The
statement declares General Linsingen's
forces defending this portion of the line
have bnly "partly repulsed the Russian
attacks,'"
PETnOGRAD. June 19.
With Czernowitz In their hands the Itus
slans are now driving on Lemberg with
renewed Vigor. They are now but 14 miles
from the Gallclan fortress, accprdlng to
Information received here today, from the
front "
Tlusslan forces are pouring across the
Pruth River at Czernowitz and Snlatyn
while the Austrq-Ilungarlans are fleeing In
disorder across the Intervening 50 miles of
territory lying between the Bukowlntan
capital and Jablonltza pass in the lower
ranges of the Carpathian mountains
The armle under General Brusilorf, lying
In Volhynla and Gallcla, are driving toward
a common centre, the forces In Bukowlna
pressing toward the northwest and those In
Volhynla driving toward the southwest
The YpJiJynlan forces have advanced se
mil. In, Jib8 Pa.1t three days, driving tie
AuyrojHungarUns and Germans v before
themy .
General -Uschnltzy's army, which cap.
tilled Czernowitz by storm, has driven the
Auatro-tiungarlan forces back five miles In
two days.
At many ptav-es on the Gallclan front tho
Austro-Hungarlans have lost their first, tec-,
oijd andjth)r lines of defense and must
fall clean bqck to the foothills of tne Oar
patbUvpsUBles the Russians slacken their
own PMEicaa. pn account of the dsngeroii
QUICK NEWS.
PHILLIES itO., 10 0 0 0 0
BROOKLYN... 0 0 0 0 0
Alexander and Killlfei; l'fcffti nutl J. Moycls.
BOSTON, lstg.
NEW YORK...
NATIONAL LEAGUE
Postponed Rain
JAMAICA RACING RESULTS
t
Tiist race mnttlcn fillies, C-yeai'-old. srlHns, puise, D fuiJoniF
Vb:on, 115, Davlcs, 11 to fi, eve-j nil 2 to 0, won: Alone nt I.nst, 110.
Siillltnjr. 0 to 1, 2 in 1 nii-l even, rccnid; Jilnoy, llti, HnnovTcr, 8 to 1,
3 to 1 and 0 to 0, thittl. Time, 1.03 -1-0 v
OTTAWA RACING RESULTS
Flist ince. puis.0 ?D00, 2-yeavoltls, sellings fmlongs Old Miss,
100, McAtce, $11.70, $1.70 nnd $2.00, won; Wall Sticct, 107, Jones,
?3 nnd $2.-10, second; Blight Bands, Tits, $1.20, thiid. Time, 1:00.
BRITISH STEAMSHIP ON FIRE AT HULL
GRIMSBY, England, June 10. Uhe Biltiih steamship Inglcoidc,
from New Yoik to Hull with a caigo Jf sugar, put' Into poit today
with her cni;;o on flic.
PRESIDENT VILSON BURNED IN EFFIGY IN MEXICO
NEW YORK, June 10. Andicas S. Cnmnin, a llch Mexican
banker, who arrived today fiom Vein Cuiz on the liner Calamines,
said that President Wilson was burned in effigy in the streets of Vera
Ciuz just before the stenmship sailed. He cleclaicd Mexico had sev
cial hundred, thousand easoned tioops nnd said America would find jt
much haider to defeat them tlinn in tho war of 1843. Cnmnia is on
his way to Spain for tho Mexican Govcinmont.
ADMIRAL MAYO NOW-COMMANDS ATLANTIC FLEET '
NEW YORK, June 10. The command of the Atlantic fleet
passed from Renr Admiral rtnnk r. rietchcr to Admiinl Henry T.
Mayo today at the Brooklyn Navy Yaid when Mnyo hoisted the tour
star ;ed pehnnnt of a full ndmlial fiom the masthead of the battle
ship Wyoming. Rear Admiinl Fletcher left immediately for Wash
ington, wheic he has been a&siguccl to othei .duties.
CVuUaiK J oa fate Tae, Cftas Oam
Ceatlaued e& s St, tehuoA Six
ROOSEVELT WILL INDORSE HUGHES JUNE 26
OYSTER DAY, N. Y Juno 19 Colonel Roosevelt will publicly Indorse Charles
Evans Hughes, tho Republican presidential candidate, Immediately after the meet
ing of the Progressive National Committee at Chicago June 26, It was learned on
high authority today.
HOUSE PASSES BILL TO INCREASE WIDOWS PENSIONS
WASHINGTON, June 19. More liberal pensions for widows of men who fought
for tho Union in 186Q-65 aro provided In a bill passed by the House today, which was
Introduced by Representative Holbrook, of Ohio
AGAIN ASKS REPARATION FOR ATTACK ON PETROLITE
WASHINGTON, June 19 The State Department today dispatched a note to
the Austrian Government renewing Its demands for disavowal and reparation for
the attack made by an Austrian submarine last winter on the tank steamship
retrollte.
NEW INVASION OF GREECE BY BULGARIAN TROOPS
SAI.ONICA, June 19. Two more columns of Bulgarian troops have entered
Greece, one near Fiorina and the other, near Nestos. French aeroplanes have again
bombarded nulgarian works on the frontier.
GUARDSMEN EMPLOYES OF CITY WON'T LOSE JOBS
Mnjor Smith announced today that all city employes who aro members of the
National Guard ot Pennsylvania could respond to the call for mobilization without
fear of losing their positions. The place of every man will be held for him until he
returns, the Mayor olllclally stated.
SON OF LORD ASTOR TO WED LADY NAIRNE
LONDON, June 19. rCaptaln the Honorable John Jacob Astor, younger son of
William Waldorf Astor, now Lord Astor, Is soon to wed Lady Charles Mercer Nalrnev
louns Astor, who Is an offlcei In the FlrsULIfe Guards and champion racquet player
of the Drltlsh army, was appointed by the King a lieutenant In the Life Guards In
1006. Early In the war ho was wounded In battle In France. (Lady Charles Mercer
Nalrne la the widow of the cecond son of the Marquis of Lansdowne, leader of the
Unionist party. Lord Charles was killed In battle In 19H. His widow Is a daughter
cf the fourth Earl of Mlnto )
THREE STEAMSHIPS SENT TO THE BOTTOM
LONDON. June 19,---The Spanish steamship Mendibll-Mendi, of 4500 tons, has
been sunk, according to a Lloyd's dispatch The crew was saved The British steam
ship Galea, of 39?2 tons, has been Bunk, according to another report to Lloyd's,
whli'h also announces the sinking of the ,steamshlp Sardonla, & 615 ton vessel of
British registry.
HUGHES SCHEDULES IMPORTANT CONFERENCES
NEW YORK, June 19 Charles E. Hughes, Republican candidate for President,
returned to his polltlco,l headquarters at the Hotel Astor today with an Important
series of conferences with Republican party leaders scheduled. Campaign plans were
to be discussed, and It was believed the manager of Hughes' fight for the presidency
might be selected today. William R. Wilcox, of New York, was reported to be favored
as national chairman. .
AERO CLUB TO AID IN MEXICAN OPERATIONS
NEW YORK. June 19. Alan R Hawley, president of the Aero Club of America,
has issued a. statement. In part as follows, when he learned of the President's order
to the mllltla 'The Aerd Club of America will give, all possible aid in furnishing
aviators "ul machines. Thirty officers of the National Guard nave been sent to
aviation schools t the expeaw of our club and some are ready to pass the testa, for
certificates, Thers ore about 100. civilian aviators These cpuld be sent to an army
aviation school- These aviators will have to bo equipped with aeroplanes. Jt may
require a, few week, to get Uww,
STATE GUARD
ORDERED OUT;
'9500 WILL GO
Troops Flofck to the Ar
mories and Will Be on
Duty by Thursday
PHILADELPHIANS READY
Citizen Soldiers Anticipate Call
to Arms and Rush it
Their Armories
ADJT. GEN, T, J, STE.WART
On duty atlfnrrisbdtjr jn charge 6t
tne details., attending tne oiaro
mobilization of tho, Nutional GunrjL
, , A
Orders for the mobilization of the
National .Guard of Pennsylvania were
issued by Adjutant'General Stewart In
Harrisburg today. The entire guard,
with the exception of the 0th and 13th
regiments and an unattached battalion,
with headquarcrs at Willlamsport, were
ordered out. Pennsylvania's quota will
be about 9500 men and the men were
instructed to be in camp at .Mount
Gretna by June 24.
Philadelphia's citizen-soldiery today Justl,
Hed Its traditions for alacrity In devotion to
Its principles of patriotism and defense.
The 3000 membfcrs of the command Irt the.
National Guard, here did not wait for th
Issuance of official orders to moblllre for
duty. The notification that tho President
had decided to call upon the volunteer
soldiery of the several States for. border
duty had been so well anticipated that
many guardsmen here did not watt for tho
Adjutant General's formal order. ' v
They assembled at their respective armor
ies early In the morning, ready 'and eager
for active se-vce, They had arranged their
private nflft, that for the mpst part
officers and men alike were prepared for
Instant duty wherever orders might call
them. Machine like efficiency was demon,
strated In the notification and response, and
foresight on the part of those in charge of
the troop movements was demonstrated on
every hand.
RAPID NOTIFICATION.
Regimental commanders had been In
touch with headquarters at Harrisburg and
the possibility of a call to arms had been
Continued on Tan YIto. Column Que
THE WEATHER
FORECAST FOR PENNSYLVANIA
Bated on a new discovery in eolar phytic
01
t,v;lub D, UOOliB AND W, F, CBQTnBSi,
Sunday, June IS, to Wednftday, June tft
The wetk will open with scattered ou-
eri. Temperatures will & moderate and.jc.
main about stationary- .
Thurtday, June . Friday, June SO, a4
Saturday, July f The latter half of the
week will be IQ degrees warmer, with
ehowere Friday and Saturday
THE QWBRAIi WEATHER IfOVB
UBNTB DUB ABB;
A cool movoient, to develop in nartbywt
United State June J, will be a moderate
movement, toltnaut material Intuefice upo
local weather condition
Another cool movement is due June IS.
ft will lie an' average Movement, preceded,
by ecattered thunder showers over the eutt
eni (wo-lhirds. of the United State and
bringing light frottt in. northern Kofiy
fountain region, with it degree fooler
elsewhere in the northern half of the count
try-
GOVERNMENT FORECAST
For Philadelphia and iHcittity Pb.
ably thowert this afternoon or evetmgf
partly cloudy toniqkt and Tuttdayi
cooler tonight; gentle variable ttfjnda.
I.OST AND F.OUND
KHtl
3 "
cuil tor mw ctrliaLAW C&a; w .
aiKJRTANT JHWrHAj.t. MUfilr-jfeet ni
(Haw I. " "4 0 sM V
f U'ATEtAt ' W5. ,CrUflH SWT
it, raiuuwipcM. s,iciria uubgvut, m
a of Jacob LuAy Applkatloo bi Wo
'
n
M
J
11
a
