The Famous Briggs
S e His Inimitable Cartoojis on
The T.-D. Sporting Page
@Time
Sketches From Life
See Temple's Human Interest
T.-D. Pi ctures Daily
1
r>6th YEAR
volume
m.m1jkk ho
RICHMOND, VA., MONDAY, JUNE 19, 1916. -TEN PAGES.
av rath Kit
pa<;r 7
FAIR
PRICE. TWO CENTS.
RUSSIANS AGAIN I
TAKE POSSESSION
OF CZERNOWITZ
, Vienna Admits Officially
That Town Has Been
Evacuated.
RIVER PRUTH FORCED
AT VARIOUS POINTS
Austrian** Are Unable to Hold
Ground Before Terrible Fire
of Czar's Men.
fiF.RMAV REPULSE AT VERDUN
French C'lulm to Have Thrown Hark
Attncks on Mort
Homme.
se.-r.owltz capital of the AuiitrJan
^ n!ar.d of Bukowina. is in the
r.andf of the Russians. and the Aus
"i*rs who had been holding It s?re in
toward the Carpathian Moun
Mlns Hard flighting n>0k place In
| ??? capture of th?? Czernowitz hridge
? and in the passage of the JUver
1 * th. hut when finally the- Russians
earned the r'srht bank of th.- river. th*
AuKtrlann evacuated the capital, leav
ing l.ooo prisoners and some gun* in
* '' hands of the Russians.
To the north In OitlicU and Volhynia.
?he Russians are meeting with desper
ate resistance on the part r,f the a-j?
?ro-Hungarians and Hermans. sc,nte of
'fie latter of whom are declared b>
e.rograd to have been brought frorr.
0 French front in an endeavor to aid
in stemming the Russian advance.
^ Ml* Pfttrngrad asserts that the
Russians are repulsing the counter.
Attacks, pressing the Teutonic allies
f'trther back and taking from them
^rKc numbers of prisoners and nuan.
Mtlos of war materials both Vienna ?nd
Berlin report victories In Gallcla and
\olhynia
RtKSIA.N ATTACK ITT MOWS
-NORTH OK I. II* A It IV Kit
\lenna says that north of the Lipa
?n Galiciu. the Austrians put
down a Russian attack, maintop ground
ft id took ??00 men prisoner, while
Berlin assorts that along the Stvr.ftl[fl
nth sides of Kolkl. and t.M** y
V",Mt ronfl ??<? the Turyy, Au<fust ?
nuuJ7 r.r r'"neral V" Whitman.'
!Z I? * atl!l0kf, ^k?n. driver.
V ril'sslanc some ^ corpora
1 resh attempts by the j. K Fd_
?srainst the French positions n
md northwest of Verdun met wmnanv
success, says the French War R p
and the Germans suffered heavy
Laities in their attacks, delivery
against L-e Mort Homm- and Thlaumo^t ,
sectors.
Again there has been considerable 1
activity in the Argonnc forest and in
' ie Vosges Mountains. where the
I rench. in the former sector. use*
their Jong-rar.ge artillery effectively
it gain 61 German positions and in the)
i i-.irj sector put down a surprise In
fantry attack southwest of Carspaeh.
On the French front much fighting
in the air has taken place, a British
flyer drove down a German machine
a..d French aviators accounted for!
seven others. The French lost one ma
chine
As yet the Austrian?, have not with
drawn troops from the Italian front
because of the Russian offensive In the
East, siys the Rome communication
and they are continuing their violent I
efforts to break through the Italian
2:ne Their attacks, however, are be"
:r,g put down with heavy casualties
Austrian air squadrons have bom-1
yarded numerous towns ,n Northern j
FALL OF C7.EK\OWITZ
OFFICIAI.I.V AWOt VCKM
PETROGRAD, June 1 S.-Czelnowu"
has fallen, says an ofllcial announce
ment by the War Office.
rhe official .statement say*?;
On the front of General Brussiloir.s
irmy the enemy maintains his resis
tance, making repeated counter
attacks. which our troops repulsed sue
cess fully, pressing the enemy more
closely in various directions and tak
ing prisoners and booty.
"I esterda.v at 4 o'clock in the after
noon General Lechnlztky'.s troops cat.
tured by assault the bridgehead at
Czernowitz on the left bank of the
1 ruth After desperate fighting for
the passage of the river, where the
onemy had destroyed the bridges, we
r "cupied Czernowitz. OurMroops are
pursuing the enemy, who is retreating
in the direction of the Carpathian
Pr,r K u course of the capture 1
'he bridgehead we took more than j
1.000 prisoners, and also seized eUnB
in Czernowitz.
?The followlnR details have been re
ceived of the fighting on the remainder
o' the front:
-The troops of General Kalendes have
repulsed several enemy counter-'
attacks, :nt which Gernian troops from
the French front were engaged In
the region of the village of Gadomltche
on the Styr, at hot engagement oc
curred. Thus far the German and Aus
trian prisoners amount to seventy of
ficers and 2.000 me.i. and we also have
tnken eight machine guns. The Ger
mans furiously attacked the village of
Svldnlks, on the north bank of the
Stokhod. We repulsed the attack not
withstanding the ?r? of the enemy's'
(Continued on Third Page.)
ADJUTANT-GENERAL W. W. SALE
Two Outlaws Are Killed and Two
Wounded, but There Are No
American Casualties.
NOW CAMPED NEAR BORDER
Will Await Developments at San
Pedro?Carranza Commander at
.Matamoros Promises to Hun Down
and Punish Raiders.
BROWNSVILLE. TEX.. June IS.?
Having accomplished its object, the
dispersing of Mexican bandits, who on
Friday night raided Texas ranches and
' attacked a detachment of the Twenty
fourth Infantry east of San Bonito,
Tex., the fourth American punitive ex
pedition to enter Mexico was with
drawn to-day. There were no Ainer
:lun casualties. %
Promises were given by the Car
r&iir.a commander at Matamoros that
he would run down and punish the
? outlaws.
Two bandits were killed and two
: wounded in an action with a detach
i m?-rit o^fj^Ttftfi^'jcteen Mexicans when
i th-One othg?wJ^^ni" to withdraw.
: Justice Crti ,*jyiXl*EDlTION
j slon, and t? TAMI' AT SAN I'EDIIO
j Ing of macf.^wn *xp'-dition to-night
i turlne plan"Cc:;tn Pedro, Tex., about
| necessity. Gfc w*st ?f Brownsville,
i dent of the Amiltn,.,ut| havlngt
pany, Inc., was ... , ... . .
of employing men'" Jl ,* , J j!
terday. Policeman *' bandits
rested him. Sa? Pedro
L. W. Taylor, a m?"'ts* ranches In
Richmond, is said *ch. about ten
; only Gentile violat* .oros, which is
; law. He was arrestit heaven.
| keeping his placets to-night regard
j ed tVr ^ fraught with the
j gravest"pusalKfBtK-s. This was occa
i sinned by the possibility that It was
I a detachment of de facto government
i troops, commanded by a young lieu
j tenant, who led the attack on the
| Americans as they were leaving Mex
i ico. This officer was killed, and hia
costume was found to be composed par
tially of the uniform of a Carranza sol
dior.
Although the report of the fight to
army headquarters said one was killed
and two wounded. " was confirmed in
Matamoros to-night 1 r two Mexicans
were killed.
The attack on the. rearguard was
made after two troops and a machine
gun troop of the Third Cavalry had
i recrossed to the United States. Troop
| E and F. commanded by Lieutenants
John Read, Jr., and Peabody, were back
I from the river, covering the retreat to
; the Rio Grande.
| .MOUNTED MEN OPEN FIRE
ON SEEING AMERICANS
The outpost reported the appearance
j of a small band of mounted men, who,
! 011 seeing the Americans, opened fire,
i Troop E Quickly replied, and was
| Joined by Troop F. The firing con
tinued for ten minutes at a range of
I approximately 500 yards. Two men
were seen to falj from their horses.
The supposed lieutenant went to the
aid of one of those wounded, but was
struck by two bullets, one In the back
of the neck.
The cavalry then charged the 'Mex
icans, who fled in the direction of
Matamoros. The chase continued three
miles, when Major Edward Anderson,
In command, ordered it halted, on
orders from headquarters here to re
cross the river.
The first section of the fourth puni
tive expedition, commanded by Lieu
tenant Newman, crossed the Rio Grande
yesterday morning In pursuit of a "hot
trail." His command comprised Troop
H. of the Third Cavalry. A second
section crossed at 3 o'clock yesterday
afternoon headed by Major Anderson.
The entire expedition which swam the
Rio Grande took position on the Mex
ican sido two miles from the ford, and
sent out scouting parties.
The bandits fled before the Ameri
can forces. Last night Major Ander
son's outpost was fired upon from a
Mexican house. The house was
charged by the Americans, but the oc
cupants fled Into the bushes. The en
tire section opposite Ran Pedro was
thoroughly searched, and while there
was occasional sniping, none of the
Americans or their horses was Injured.
RETIREMENT OF EXPEDITION
ORDERED \l\ PARKER
The retirement of the expedition
began largely to-day upon Instructions
from General Parker, commanding this
(Continued onSeoond Psgo.).
NINETY ARRESTED I
UNDER 1UE' LAW
Police Take Proprietor and One]
Employee of Number of
Business Places. \ I
NO EXCITEMENT OR DISORDER
Those Who Failed to Lay In
Supplies of Gasoline, Cigars or
Cigarettes Worst Sufferers.
i Those person* who forgot that >h,.
ban of the "blue" laws would be spread
over Richmond yesterday and failed to
I Purchase their Sunday supply of gaso
i line, tobacco and confections probably
. were the only people in the citv. b*'
. fi?lfs twhoRe arrested by the police, who
? k of a "blue" Sunday
! brought forcibly to them.
I There an ahBence of tho noise
made by the newBhoys in crying their
papers, practically all of the clear
stores and confectionaries were closed
the hiring of vehicles was prohibited!
,.tnd only one ji.ney driver attempted
Boothia u* StrettS- "* Was arrested
i their trade. "tOPPed ,rom
j With these exceptions, however, ves
I I* *y Wa" not unllk"- other Richmond
j Sundays. The boats at Reservoir Park
? "ere hired out to pleasure-seekers, and
j the proprietor was not molested. All
i or the free shows at Forest Hill Park
? us well as the confectionarv stands'
j were In operation. The police noted
k* * ?Yeh* that although they
made about ninety arrests for te?t? of
the "ouster" law. they had not ex
pected to round up all of the individual
?violators in one Sunday.
j During the day the captains of the
j several districts, each accompanied bv
I a magistrate, made the rounds of the
j various establishments at which it had
, been decided to make arrests for tests
| of the law. The proprietor, or the
j person in charge, of the business, with
; at least one employee, was arrested
j and bailed Immediately for his appear
. ance In Police Court to-day. when the
I cases come to trial.
There wp_s no excitement or disorder
attending the arrests, and the average
citizen would not have known that his
, neighbor had been apprehended. In
, no case was the establishment closed
following the arrest, the men being
- balled merely for their appearance in
j the Police Court, and not being bonded
to keep the peace in the meantime
? which might have given grounds for
: demands for the forfeiture of the bond
should the violation be continued after
the arrest.
I IVIMi GIVK ntX'rsioN
I.N' COL'ItT THIS MORM.Vfi
Justice C rutchOeld this morning will
be called on to give a decision in each
of the cases, decisions that will express
the lower court's stand as to the mean
ing of the word "necessity," the heart
word of the statute, as It applies to the
various forms nf business. Justice
Crutch field has carefully refrained
from giving an expression on any of
the cases before they are brought" be
fore, him. but he is credited with hold
ing tho view that newspapers, tele
j phones, telegraph companies, railroads
and their subsidiaries, street cars and
their shop forces, ice plants, bakeries,
dairies and the like are necessities.
In tho case of all large corporations,
the cases will be taken immediately
to the higher courts, should the deci
sion of the lower tribunals be adverse
to the enterprise, it Is salcj. Pending
the handing down of a decision in these
cases hv the Supreme Court. Injunc
tions will he sought restraining the
police from further interference.
Cases in which Justice Crutchfield
will have to give decisions to-day in
clude the following, an employer and
at least one employee of each having
been arrested yesterday:
Rennie Dairy Co.. H. H. Vaden. sec- I
rotary: W. L. Berkley, driver of milk
wagon.
Tyler & Ryan Ice Co., Floyd Tyler,
manager: John Bowman, salesman.
The Corby Baking Co.. William Jorg. I
manager; J. B. Luttes. haker.
Richmond Dairy Co., J. O. Scott, vice- j
president and treasurer; A. C. Fields,
driver of milk wagon.
Merchants' Cold Storage and Ice j
Manufacturing Company, Inc., T. S. [
Herbert, manager; Horace Chappell, I
engineer.
The. Rose nock Brewing Company.
"\Y illiam Ogden, chief engineer; Daniel
Carroll, assistant.
Richmond, Fredericksburg and Po
tomac Railroad car shops, A. H. Mon
cure. general foreman; James Scott,
cleaning railway cars.
^'KRetl S- Myers Tobacco Company,
Allen & Ointer branch, W. L. Taylor,
superintendent; J. C. Williams, car
penter.
Tredegar Iron Works. Inc.. Archer
Anderson. Jr., vico-prcBident; James
Young, fireman.
Mrs. Charles H. Jennings's Manu
facturing ice Plant. R. B. Bowers, fore
man; Jerry Braxton, ice puller.
American Locomotive Co., inc. I^ee
Lowry, fireman.
Home Brewing Co.. Inc., Charles L
Ross, superintendent; lrn Leber ice
puller.
American Bread and Baking Co
Everett Perklnson, secretary-treasurer
and general manager; H. L. Walthall
manufacturing bread.
Richmond Forgings Corp., O. P Red
fird, superintendent; W. O. Wilkerson
repairing machinery. '
Virginia Railway and Power Co., c
B. Buchanan, general manager; J' H
Wright, assistant in charge of operat
ing machinery; C. L. Taylor, motorman,
and R. W. Tiller, conductor.
L. Bromm Baking Co., Inc., T3. A.
(Continual on Third Page.)??
SECRETARY OF WAR BAKER.
Virgini^Mlith Gets
Orders to Mobilize
from General Sale
Commands Will Gather at
Armories, Recruit and, in J
Few Days, Concentrate
at Fair Grounds.
Following a "war council" that lasted
until an early hour this morning. Ad- [
jutant-General W. W. Sale, in the ah- J
sence from the Stat* of Governor
Stuart, Issued immediate mobilization
orders to the commanders of the First
and Second Virginia Volunteer Regi
ments, the four batteries of Field Ar
tillery, the Signal Corps and the. Field
Hospital Corps.
Under the orders from the War De
partment, the. companies composing
these military units will report at once
to their armories and proceed to i?
crult to their full strength. Within a
few days, upon the order of the .Cd
jutant-General, the troops all will
mow to Richmond, where they will be
mobilized in a concentration camp that
will be established at the State Fair
Grounds.
General orders to this effect were
dispatched last night by General Sale
to all officers who could be reached by
telephone or telegraph. The War De
partment's order to muster the Stale
militia "into the service, of the United
States" for guard dufc- on the Mexican
frontier reached State military head
quarters practically without warning,
and the Adjutant-General's staff
worked under high pressure to put Into
effect the order from Washington with
the promptness that It demanded.
TELEGRAMS SENT TO
COM SI AXDKHS OF HE(<IME.\T*
Difficulty .of obtaining long-distance
connection because of the early clos
ing hours observed by the telephone
offices In many sections of the State,
prevented the Adjutant-General's or
ders from reaching every company
commander last night. Telegrams wer?
despatched to Colonel R. F. Leedy. of
the Second Regiment, at Lai ray, and to
Colonel William J. Perry, 'of Staun
ton, commanding the First Regiment.
From the headquarters of these two
ofllcers will go forward this morning
the orders which will rally tin- officers
and men of these two regiments to
their armories for the first general call
since the Spanish-American War.
In Richmond the call means the im
mediate mobilization of the Richmond
Grays Battalion, Major J Fulmer
Bright, commanding: the Howitzers,
commanded by Captain William M.
Myers, and the Signal Corps, Lieutenant
F. Karle Lutz, acting officer In com
mand. Orders were issued last night to
Major lirlght and Lieutenant Lutz and
to a subordinate officer of the Howit
zers, Captain Myers being en route to
Detroit, where he has gone to attend
the annual convention of the Veiled
Prophets. He will be notified in De
troit this morning and will return
at once to assume command.
The mobilization order does not af
fect the Richmond Light Infantry
Blues. This battalion Is an indepen
dent military unit, unaffiliated with
any of the three regiments. Both the
First and Second Regiments, whlcn
Ijave been called out, are- recruited to
the required minimum, and. unless some
of the constituent companies fall to
icomo up to the requirements, it will not
^b? neoousary, for the present, to call
Grays to Report at
Armory at 8 o'Clock
At 1 >:t() o'clock thin mornluK Mujor
.1. Fill in vr lirlglif, commanding the
Itlclimond lirnj-i' llattnlion, Flrnt
Infantry, Inniird the ciill for miNtin
itly ut the (iruyn' Armory thin morn
Infi' nt S o'clock. All enllMted men
in the Flrkt Hamilton, Flrnt Infan
try, lire directed to report at the
armory between H and II. All able
bodied men of Rood plivnieal con
dition anil irood moral character de
NirhiK Kfnlop with the Grnyn on the
.Mexican border are requested to re
port nt the tirnj-K' Armory enrly thin
monitnR. Major ilrl^hf announced
that ti vieorouN rccrultlng campaign
would he made to bring the varionx
companies of (he battalion np to full
ivnr ntrencth.
out either the Blues or any companies
from the Fourth Regiment.
In common with all the olllcers and
men of the two regiments* designated
and the artillery. Signal Corps and
Field Hospital Corps, the. Richmond
men this morning will report to their
armories and begin the routine drilling
that is tn precede the encampment ut
the Fair Grounds.
There will be no flitch in the mobi
lization. For months the order has
been anticipated. As early aa two
years ago, when Mexican affairs were
approaching a crisis, the general staff
had worked out complete mobilization
plans, and these now are in the hands
of all commanding officers in the State
Complete blue, prints and drawing of
thi Fair Grounds site and country im
mediately adjoining, showing their de
velopment as a concentration camp
capable of taking care of the entire
militia of the State, are. on file in the
Adjutant -General's ofllce.
Commissioner Graham B. Hobson, of
the Administrative Board, immediately
upon the opening of the board' session
this morning will offer a motion pro
viding for additional sewerage facili
ties nt the Fair Grounds, work to be
gin as soon as possible. The grounds
already are provided with good draln
tge and plefity of water.-hut additional
sanitary conveniences will be made
necessary by the concentration at this
point of a large number of men for an
indefinite period.
The Fair Grounds, while the prop
erty of the city, are leased to the Vir
ginia State Fair Association. Mr. Hob
son was unable to say last night how
far the terms of the lease may Inter
fere with a free utilization of the
grounds as a military concentration
camp, but was of the belief that no
difficulty would be encountered.
CONCKNTIIATIOY CAMP
WILL CONTAIN a,100 MEN
When the mobilization Is complete
the concentration camp in Richmond
will contain about 2,100 officers and
men According to tho last annual re
port of tho Adjutant-General, tho mili
tary units which have been called out
are composed as follows:
First Regiment, consisting of three J
battalions of three companies on'-h,
with regimental headquarters at Staun
ton, commanded by Colonel Perry. The
regiment has forty-seven officers and
753 enlisted men. a total of 400.
.Second Ktgiment, consisting of thicol
battalions of three companies each,
with regimental headquarters at Luray,
(Continued on Second Page.) :
.S
NATIONAL GUARD
TO BE MUSTERED IN i;
FOR BORDER DUTY
Immediate Mobilization of Troops Deter
mined Upon Because of Alarming
Conditions in Mexico.
VIRTUALLY ITS ENTIRE STRENGTH
SUMMONED INTO FEDERAL SERVICE
About 100,000 Men Expected to Respond' to Call,
Which Will Pave Way for Releasing About
30,000 Regulars for Immediate Service Across
Frontier in Event of Open Hostilities WTith Car
ranza?Guardsmen Cannot Be Used Beyond
Line Without Authority of Congress?Secre-.
tary Daniels Sends Additional War Vessels to
Both Coasts to Safeguard American Lives.
WASHINGTON, June IS.?Virtually the entire strength of
the National Guard of all States and the District of Columbia
was ordered mustered into the Federal service to-night by Presi
dent Wilson. About 100,000 men are expected to respond to
the call. They will be mobilized immediately for such service
on the Mexican border as may later be assigned to them.
General Funston, commanding the border forces, will desig
nate the time and place for movements of guardsmen to the
international line as the occasion shall require. ?
In announcing the orders, Secretary Baker said the State
forces would be employed only to guard the border, and that no
additional troop movements into Mexico were contemplated, ex
cept in pursuit of raiders.
Simultaneously, with the National Guard call. Secretary
Daniels, of the Navy Department, ordered additional war vessels
to Mexican waters on both coasts to safeguard American lives.
At the War, Navy and State Departments it was stated that
no new advices as to the situation in Mexico had come to. pre
cipitate the new orders.
Tension Increases Rapidly Within Last Two Weeks.
Within the last two weeks, however, tension has been iucreasing
steadily. The crisis presented by General Cnrranza's note demanding the
recall ot" General Pershing's expeditionary force has been followed by ,%
virtual ultimatum served on the American officer by General Trevino,
Mexican commander In Chihuahua. To this was added yesterday the pos
sibility that American and Mexican troops had clashed across the border
from San Benito, Texas.
Administration officials made no attempt to conceal to-night their
relief over the safe return of Major Anderson's cavalry squadron to Browns
ville. after their successful bandit chase. The troopers crossed in pursuit
of bandits in the face of intimations that they would be attacked if they
did so. General Funston himself reported that, he anticipated fighting,
presumably with Carranza troops.
Mobilization of the national guardsmen to support General Funston's
line will pave the way for releasing some 30,000 regulars for immediate
service in Mexico in the event of open hostilities with the Carranza govern
ment. The guardsmen themselves could not be used beyond the line
without authority of Congre.ss, and until they had volunteered for that
duty, as ?they are called oc.t under the old militia law. The new law.
which would make them available for any duty under the Federal govern
ment, goes into effect on July 1.
Kntiro Mobile Itrgular A liny in Mexican Service.
The entire mobile regular army in the United States, several provisional
regiments of regular Coast Artillery, serving as infantry, and the National
Guard of Texas, New Mexico and Arizona now are on the border or in
Mexico. Definite figures have never been made public, but it is under
stood General Funston has about 40,000 regulars and probably 5,000 or
more guardsmen, of whom 10,000 regulars are with General Pershing or
scattered along his line of communications from Namlqulpa, Mexico, to
Columbus, N. M. '
Telegrams calling for the militia were sent to-night to the Governors
of all States, except tho three whose guardsmen already have been mustered
in, after all-day conferences at the War Department, attended by Secretary
Baker, Major-Geueral Scott, chief-of-staff; Major-General Bliss, chief of
tho mobile army, and Brigadier-General Mills, chief of the militia division
general staff. Brigadier-General McCombs. president of the Army War
College, also was consulted. .Since Mr. Baker did not find it necessary
to confer again with President Wilson after his late visit to the White
House last night, It was apparent the decision to briug out the militia was
reached then.
By the new orders there will be placed at General Funston's disposal
two major-generals and twenty-one brigadier-generals of militia, with their
complete Infantry commands. The entire infantry division? from New
York and Pennsylvania are called out, as are fifteen full brigades from
other States. Iu all, eighty-eight regiments of infantry, with thirteen sepa
rate battalions and many separate companies are affected, giving a total of
1,148 companies, each of which must have a mininwni strength of sixty
five men when mustered into tho Federal service. The total enlisted force
of Infantry, therefore, would be not less than 8 5,0m) men.
Less Than 500 Companies Xot Mustered In.
Less than 500 companies, scattered throughout the country, will not
be mustered, and tho National Guard Coast Artillery companies have uot
teen summoned. All of the field artillery, cavalry, engineer and signal
troops will be employed, as will many of the militia field hospitals and
ambulance companies. The War Department has on hand ample equip
ment ana clothing to outfit and maintain this force.
The call applies to seventy-nine "batteries of field artillery, ninety-nine
troops of cavalry, and one New York cavalry machine-gun troop, twenty
five engineer companies, and twenty-nine signal companies, all with full
equipment already issued to them. Twenty-six ambulance companies and
twenty-seven field hospitals also have been ordered made ready for en
trapment.
No indication was given at the State Department to-night of the course
to be pursued In regard to the reply to General Carranza's note demanding
the withdrawal of tho American troops now in Mexico, which is in President
Wilson's hands. It had been intended to dispatch it to Mexico City to
morrow by special messenger, but recent developments may change thla
plan.
Official reports that recent raids along the border had created alarm
among American residents in Mexico City and elsewhere beyond t^je border
were reflected to-day in a message received at the Mexican embassy from
General Carranza. It stated that excitement prevailed at. the Mexlcau
capital over the ominous signs along the border, and asked Ellseo Arre
dondo, ambassador-designate, what he had learned of the intentions of the
Washington government toward Mexico. In reply. Mr. Arredondo included
a copy of Secretary Baker's announcement of the call for the militia.
Struggling With Elements Within Mexico.
Officials here construed to-night's message to the embassy as a further
indication that the de facto government was struggling with elements within
Mexico over which It had little control. For three months the economic
situation has been growing steadily worse, and agitators whose purposes
and affiliations are not clcarly known here, have fostered anti-American
foelinga throughout Northern Mexico.
