"'"71 7- F
Vacation Money The Herald
For You SO-will be delivered to your
Prizes of from $3 to $40 each awit- door, daily and Sunday. for
.olvers of The Herak' new pua30c a Month
contest. Fascinating. interesting aNd -.0 . Mon
remunerative.
NO. 3531. WUr-FA. WASHINGTON, D. C., MONDAY, JUNE 19. 1916. ONE CENT.
THRE
PRI
U. S. TROOPERS
RECROSS LINE
IN LEADEN HAIL
Maj. Anderson and Squadron
of Third Cavalry Fired
Upon at Border.
RECALLED AFTER THREAT
Withdrawal Follows Warning
from Gen. Ricaut that He
Will Resist Advance.
(By the Ifteratiml News serviee.)
El Pa., Tea.. June 10 (MeNda)
There is every Indicatien that the Mex
less trops are plannlag a immediate
attack en Gen. Pershings forees with
et waiting for further ergere frem
the defacte gwvernment leaders. Gem.
Trevine's toees are on the move.
A large eommand has been reported
moving westward from ChihUahua C1ty
toward the extreme meuthern base of
the penitive expedittie at Namiquipa.
The divislee which had been asaembled
at Villa Ahumada. e the nextem
Cental Railroad has bee dividedL and
is in Mdel.
Appreasmately ,A" mem of this esm
mamd are marchisg in the direction ot
El Val., which Is the meet pregaa
hie peit on Gem. Pershiaga line of
eemmunitem. The remaiMadi ot the
sree, estimated at TAM is geeemeag
ftward JUar-.
(Tateratieiasi iw serv.ee.)
Brownsville, Tex., June zZ.-The
Aammrican troops who pursued ban
dits across, the Rio Grande near
here have returned under fire.
While they were recrossing to
this side early this morning they
were fired on by a body of sixteen
Mexican horseulen. The Americans
returned the fire and chased the
Mexicans off towards Matanoras,
killing one and wounding two.
The withdrawal of the American
troops followed the receipt by Gen.
Parker of a notification from Gen.
Ricaut, in command of the Mexican
forces at Matamoras, that the in
vading Americans would be met by
resistance.
armsa Delivers Ultimatum.
Mexican Consul Garsa delivered the
lutimatum. Gen. Parker repIied
that the American troops were i
Mexico under an agreement betweer
the two governments. in pursuit of
marauding bandits which Ricaut ha
been -unable to capture. Gen. Parkei
further Informed Garsa that in the
event the Mexican troops attacked thf
Americans. all the available men undei
Parker's command would be seni
against Ricaut.
Several conferences were held be
tween Garsa and Parker. It was fi,
nally agreed that if Parker woult
withdraw his troops from Mexican ter.
ritory Ricaut would capture and pun
ish the bandits. many of whose namej
are known.
Gen. Parker then issued this state.
Ment:
Gen. Parker's Statement.
"Maj. Anderson and his squadron o
the Third Cavalry. supporting Liegi
Newman's attachment which had fol
lowed bandits across the river. cleaneo
out the rest of the bandits In th<
reaches opposite the San rPedro an
Ranchita district. On the approach a
the summand to their ranches the ban
dits sCattered and sniped during th,
afternoon and occailonally until mid
Umiht since which time no Mexican
have been seen nor has there bees an;
further firing at treeps
"Camp wee made some two mile
beck from the crossing to which th<
emnmand returned this morning. Nf
Carranma troop. were encountered.
"The object at the ernesing having bee
m.onplnshed in oo~meuees of premens
moeby the Maximan aemmamu. Ga
Ricaut, to empture and panish the be.
dia I have ordered Cal. Dullard, om
mandig, to withdsaw Maj. Anderson
anmmd.. to this side at the Rio Grand
ad go into camp at ha Per with hi
mtire emen.d.a onailng of the -eo
uande ot the Third Cavalry plu s
smac--s gun troop and oe battneg pha
a amb=- gun mimnamw of-the TwentI
M~t Infantry and a detachensnt et th
Duirth hnntry.
htay to ight a hd.
Reie June 16-Dec*mttiom of Itau
m tinmt fight mutl the sflha shaj
hesattained a decisive vietery we
toa rte mwWd
'&fAT OF W)
SIDENT C
Marines Reported Killed
In Battle with Mexicans
(By the Internatienal News Serviee)
Nogales, Ariz.. June 18.-Four Mexican soldiers and two citizens
were killed at Mazatlan. Sinaloa, today by United States marines, ac
cording to messages received in Nogales. relayed up the west coast of
Mexico.
The message was signed by Gen. Mesta. commanding Mazatlan.
It stated that a launch loaded with marines, who were attempting to
land at Mazatlan, had opened fire on the Mexicans who lined the wharf.
The Mexicans returned the fire, killing and wounding a number
of the Americans.
It also reported two United States officers were captured and are
held prisoners.
Mexico Calls Men to Arms
To Repel U. S. Invaders;
Taken as Reply to Wilson,
(By the San News Service.) of men to be ready to fight the Amer
Chihuahua City, Mex.. June 1.- I lean army in case of a rupture of re
Mexico's reply to the American call lations. and with the object of pre
for the National Guards to mobilize for venting the further raiding of Amer
duty on the Mexican border is in- ican territory by armed bandits, who
structions to all its citizens to arm seek to increase the present grave dif
and prepare for service In case of an ficulties of the general situation, all
international war. patriots should rally to the national
The following message from Gen. standards."
Obregon. Mexican minister of war. was Gen. Trevino is authorized to make
received by Gen. Jacinto Trevino, in known to all citizens in the districts
Chihuahua this evening: under the control of the division of the
"The Mexican government is con- northeast that they should present them
vinced, that the greater part of its selves to the nearest cilet of arms in
citizens are desirous of enlisting in their respective districts to receive orders
the army so that in case of interna- and be incorpormted in said arms division.
tional war they may defend, with arms This also proclaims that all those who
in hand, the integrity of our sover- do not comply will be immediately dis.
eignty. Further, since in the northern armed, and thkt all frontier conmmanders
are to '.e ordered to prevent the crossing
state. and especially in the border ter- to American soll of Mexican citizens
ritory; there are being organized bodies whether they be armed or not.
Pacific Fleet Is Ordered
To Go to Mexican Waters;
Four Warships for Atlantic
Orders were issued last night for the coasts to assure the safety of Amen
Pacific Fleet to leave at once for Mexi- cans on the Mexican coast lines.
can waters. In addition, four warships Rear Admiral Cameron McRae Wins
and three destroyers will be rushed to low. Commander-in-Chief of the Pacifi
Mexican ports on the Atlantic. The bat- Fleet, will take Ave ships and three de.
tieships fleet of which Vice Addfral Mayo I stroyers to strategical positions on the
will take command today will be held west coast without delay. The selection
in readiness. Of these vessels will be left to him, but
Secretary of the Navy Daniels returned It to stated that the bulk of his effective
last night from St. Louis and proceeded forces will go.
at once to arrange for the navy to lend At Present Rear Admiral Winslow's
its support toward the precautionary flagship Is the San Diego. which Is at
campaign which the President inaugu- San Diego. Cal.
rated by calling out the State militias. The Denver. In command of Commander
Secretary Daniels conferred with Rear Martin E. Trench, Is also at Ban Diego.
Admiral Benson. Chief of Operations, while these vessels of the Pacific Reserve
and rranemets wre frthith adeFleet are available for duty: The Pitts
and arrangements were forthwith made the Clorado the Marylad, the
for -the dispatch of a sufficient naval South Dakota, the St. Louis and the
force to both the Atlantic and Pacific onest Mrexinia n
German Election Intrigue
In U. Sw Revealed by Writer
Uy JOHN L. DALDMSTON. tedures I stmericapo I asked. He
0pynight, 19mwes a sthd. "Those are In another set
London, June 4.-German IntrIge lof cabinets. In another office," he
on a hitherto unapproached scale May said. "and I should say roughly we
expected in the United States dur.4!% the have half as many of them as there
Presidential campaign, an official of the are here. The cabinets In here contain
foreign office, whos Job It in to keep In oly Greek Roumanian, Swedish and
touch with the activities of Teutonic allied reports."
propagaiida. Informed meo today. "Mine is Not Seeking Interviews.
some Job, as you Yankees say.' he re- It wa understood that I was not
marked. poining to a row of cabinets Iseeking an Interview, which lro eg
setching around three sides w of his cllent reasons I cannot be granted
officeb each cabinet six feet hyan the
Suthl akta, the wt. Loui ando the
have filed here," he said. "more than "pussyfoot" departments, a American
*laGeroGman acivtyecovteio nceIntiuofte waof
the glo, legtmt AcDTivit an fce.dur ltn andereig offie. But
leitmte Cosrtl the8. lte . luhd Toeaei nte e
o maa hihr of tprhe relae may pro said."an d hould o sarhl w
exetdyi the Umnew Sesve. dury the haehl smny ofw them s here
Prestdentiay. campaign Jun offia ose arendor. Jue ainSt isthe re nti
forign fiye, groejt is toaye in o n ay Greek unin., paadisand
tchin oitho the aitiisonalTeuton.ic
prepeivdah inred ove tday telphne an arigsrphia"flgcah
s fomew ob, as ooaes iay, wsno.ed itthe poiere-etorl
markt epintin to mae any com n cabntstet Th dmosros sctre
oee th ch caidn't ixe et afeigh.h.Seen ress"eIrn~
havbe Cldere, hes aid mre thill
' td0,0 doument atond thepRv.ort e Blatdsaces r e ta h
3lag et ecrman hciistyuch caloedr ofrnewih a edtdy
thelb, legtitathe ivitylang thtct1b1-aeeuaieeo
Segtitera. expeted tohecovter."o i ainaitogsstesa~sa d
s hltmdidnotprven hi frm pun ing asole undesto that Im ws not
** leeseekineman1ieterviewdewhich oorLex
I pbgsg lter ith is :snda untril afMutern the w by anyofth
!bejes ~meud~il, md fste e, ~airaly afoegnofc. u
"Hw an f he eltet pr-. CN'1NEDONPA- ETN
-R BY CAR
00ALLS OU',
SEVEN DAYS GIVE
TO RECROSS B(
MILITIA OF DISTRICT,
NUMBERING 2,300, GET
ORDERS TO MOBILIZE
Local Guardsmen Will Go Into Camp at
Radio, Va.-Officers Will
T
Lay Plans.Today.
TENTS WILL BE UP TONIGHT
Recruiting Officers This Morning Will Begin
Work of Filling Up "Peace" Gaps in Organi
zations-Hundreds of Men Needed.
A war city will spring up in Virginia just across the Potomac today.
The 2,300 officers and men of the District National Guard called out by
Piesident Wilson will make camp at Radio. Va.
Within a week they expect to be on their way to Mexico.
The call of the President on the militia of the nation for service on the
Mexican border has swept the city with the war spirit of '98, when President
McKinley issued his call for volunteers.
The uniform of the National Guard has assumed new import.
WILL MOBILIZE AT FORT MYEL
The men will begin mobilizing today at Fort Myer. Those in the gev
emnment service will.be given indeterminate leave of absence. it is expected
that private concerns will grant the same sort of leave to their Guardsmen
employes.
By nightfall hundreds of tents will be pitched on the fields lying just out
side the fort at the foot of Radio, the government wireless station, and the
men will have begun the service which some of them believe will eventually
lead to the capital of Mexico.
Immediately following the issuance of the "extra" by The Washington
Herald making the Initial announcement to the city of President Wilson's call,
the armory of the Third Infantry. at Fifth and L streets, was the mecca of
hundreds of men seeking to "go to the front."
MANY SEEK INFORMATION OVER PHONE.
The crowds became so dense that it was necessary to close the big iron
gates guarding the entrance to keep them out. Still others besieged the
armory by telephone demanding to know where and when they might enlist.
Under the law, infantry companies may be recruited up to 150 enlisted
strength, the cavalry troop to 100 and the field artillery to 200 men each.
Practically all of the infantry companies are incomplete. They require
an average of about 50 more men per company. There is a chance for only
fifteen men in the cavalry troop, which already numbers eighty-five.
The field artillery batteries offer the'best opportunities of the service. Of
comparatively recent organization, they are far below required strength.
CAVALRY LACKS OFFICERS AND MOUNTS.
Despite the fact that the cavalry troop is nearest its maximum strength,
it probably will be the most difficult to whip into shape for entrainment to
the border. It is equipped with uniforms and guns, but it lacks both officers
and horses.
An examination for the commissIoning of officers will be held either
tpmorrow or the next day. Meanwhile efforts will be made to have the Wai
Department supply the men with mounts. Should this fail, it is not improbabli
that the men will supply their own mounts. Its membership ranks high socialb
and is drafted largely from the University Club and newspaper correspondents
Recruiting will be done at 1225 Pennsylvania avenue northwest until
every company and battery has reached its maximum strength.
SPANISH WAR VETERANS OFFER SERVICES.
Three hundred veterans of the Spanish-American war-members of th
District regiment in '98-have already offered their services. They probably
will be mustered in today.
The District troops will be commanded by the same officers they hav
previously served under. They will be regarded In the same light as regulai
United States soldiers. Every man will receive the same pay, according t<
his rank, as the Federal troopers. The government will hold the places of al
clerks belonging to the National Guard open for than, that they may ster
back into their old positions as soon as they'are mustered out.
The meeting of the officers of the District Militia, scheduled to hav,
been held in the Third Infantry Armory last night, was postponed. A nun
ber of the officers had left the city over Sunday. They will meet at th,
armory at I o'clock this afternoon.
WILL LAY PLANS AT MEETING TODAY.
Complete plans for the establishment of the camp at Radio wIll b
made at that time, Arrangements will also be made for securing additiona
light.weight khaki uniforms, of which, at present, there Is a shortage.
The mobilizatIon probably will be under the general supenvision
Maj, Joseph A, Castner, chief of stat of the Eighth Militia division, cono
prising the tseps of Maryland, Virginia, West Virginia and Delawase,.
veil s th s l estrict of Columbia,
~All the local organizations have been ordered out except the Coa
APiery, The captains of the vadious -ompaie will receive their forma
essers this afterauma, They in turs wil eat their men together and deivy
RANZ A;
MI ITIA
N U. S. TROOPS
)RDER, IS REPORT
BAKER ISSUES ORDERS
TO ALL STATE GUARDS.
AFTER SEEING WILSON
Upwards of 117,000 Officers and Men Af
fected By Action-Forces to Be Mobil
ized With Least Possible Delay.
WILL BE USED ALONG BORDER
Action Comes Suddenly After Admittedly "Alarnw
ing" Reports Are Received From Gen. Fun
ston-Warships Ordered to SaiL
(By a. New. seee.)
El Paso, Tex., June 18.-Confidential advices wore received her.;
early this afternoon that First Chief Carranza had seat an -hemata,
to President Wilson early this morning advising him that if American~
troops were not removed from Mexico within seven days a stat. al
war would be considered as existing between the United States and
Mexico, and that the troops of the de facto governst at the end *6
seven days would treat all armed Americans in Mexico as bivadera.
President Wilson yesterday afternoon issued a caib Nationar
Guard organizations of every State in the Union for service an the.
Mexican border.
The President's action followed closely the receipt here of um
official reports that Gen. Carranza had dispatched an ultiman tou
the United States demanding that the American forces be withchawni
from Mexican soil within seven days. and stating that in the crab
of their not being recalled Mexico would consider a statoVo43ab
tween the two countries to exist.
U. S. TROOPS FIRED UPON.
Another alarming report from the border was that MaJ. Xn~
son's force of the Third Cavalry had recrossed the border under fire,
Shortly after the President's order was issued Secretary of th
Navy Daniels ordered the Pacific fleet to Mexican waters, and desig
nated four warships and three destroyers to proceed to Mexican parts.
on the Atlantic.
Although the purpose of the President's action, as set forth in
the formal call, is for the protection of the American frontier from
invasion, the opinion throughout Washington last night was that it
marked the beginning of armed intervention in Mexico.
INTENSE EXCITEMENT HERE.
For more than three years President Wilson has exhausted every
other expedient, practically, in an effort to avoid such a step.
Washington is the scene of intense excitement. The War Depart
ment was lighted up last night from the basement to the roof.
The action is understood to have been precipitated by a dispatch
from Gen. Funston predicting trouble all along the Rio Grande, in an
effort on the part of the Mexicans to force the United States to with
draw its forces from Mexican soil.
A number of lengthy reports were received at the department
during the day, but Secretary of War Baker refused to make their
contents public.
COAST ARTILLERY NOT AFFECTED.
Although every State in the Union and the District of Columbia is at
fected by the call, not all of the organizations of each State o.wa.ed Out.
None of the coast artillery units of the National Guard is affected.
According to the last official reports of the division of militia afairs of
the War Department, the "paper" strength of the entire National Guard, ex
clusive of coast artillery, was something over 117.000 enlisted men. The
total number of enlisted men called for in yesterday's summons, exclusive
e of signal corps and medical corps, is 93,518, divided as follows: Tnfantry.
-76,115; cavalry, 6,433; field artillery. 9.928. and engineers. .4.040.
e The New York State contingent called out Is the largest of any sum
mioned and Includes: One division of three brigades of three regiments eacht
of infantry; one regiment, one squadron and one machine gun troop of car..
alry: two regiments of field artillery; two battalions of engineers; one bat
talion of signal corps, three field hospital companies and four ambulance
companies. The New York forces are to mobilize at New Dorp, N. Y.
That the action was decided on suddenly is indicated by the fact, declared
last night by the officers themselves. that up to 10 o'clock in the morning the
members of the General Staff had not been apprised of the President's inr
tentions,
c~wwuuaa As.s Detais. sonaj telegram from Gen. carransa aSk.
tThe grav-est concern I. *manife.ted at Ing the status of coniditions in washing
tI the Mexica~n Zmuas.., wthere the fear ton, and indicating that he wa. totaliy
was xpre.ea hat he ats~otat n ' the dark a. to. the .teps takm.
mems- esgp a the Preseent toayr
,antas t. eginn a .t . nd."e lA e- csNE xPa
