'Mil
R Y. GUARD WILL SEND MEN TO CAMP TO-NIGHT
Thundr tlormi to-ntghl. TuMday partly cloudy.
51
"Circulation Books Open to All."
"Circulation Jloolcs Open to All
PRICE ONE CENT.
Coi'Trifhl, 11110, by Trm Trtm rahllihtaf
Co. (The Nut York World).
NEW YORK, MONDAY, JUNE 19, 1916.
16 PAGES
PRIOE ONE CENT.
VWML
JJl K EDITION
MMAL
HI COITION
1
NEW YORK TROOPS FIRST
ON THE BORDER WITHIN
ALL NEW YORK S GUARDSMEN
TO BE UNDER ARMS TO-NIGHT;
GREAT RUSH TO ARMORIES
Company of the 2 2d Engineers Goes
to Camp To-NightFull Regi
ment With the 69th to Follow on
Wednesday Nine Regiments for
Camp Whitman.
Responding to the call of President Wilson for the mobilization of
the National Guard of the nation, New Yortes militiamen began pouring
into their respective armories early this morning without waiting for the
official general orders, which will be issued late "this afternoon. By mid
night the entire command will be under arms.
Augmented by one hundred recruits secured this morning, the
"Fighting Sixty-nintn" Regiment, 1,000 strong, will assemble in its ar
mory for inspection to-night, sleep there under arms to-morrow night
and on Wednesday morning will tnirain for Camp Whitman, at Beekman,
New York, which has been designated by Major-Gen. John P. O'Ryan
as the official concentration point.
With them on Wednesday morning will move the Twenty-second
Regiment of Engineers. These two units were the first to receive their
official marching orders. They will assume part of the duty of preparing
the camp for the mass of men which will occupy it within the next few
days.
Company D of the Twenty-second, under dpt. iiruest F. Robert
con, seventy men and sixty-lour horses, will go U camp to-night.
Orders covering 10,000 Guardsmen all over the State will be issued
this afternoon, instructing several regiments to mobilize in their armories,
where they will be brought to full
.. jmpment.
It was announced to-day at Peekskill, in Major Gen. O'Kun's head
quarters, that four regiments of the
Tenth, Sixty-fifth, Seventy-fourth and
in their armories and held there, the
Beekman by Wednesday and ready to
The mustering- of tho National 5'
Guardsmen Is procecillnB with won- '
lerful speed. Tlio confusion that fol
lowed tho call for troops nt tho out
break of tho Spanish-American Wnr
was altogether missing to-day. Kvcry
officer and man Knew what was ox
pected of him and proceeded to act
accordingly. Tho, mobollzatlon Is
greatly assisted from thu fact that
the Now York dlvlMlon has been un
der orders for several da h for a
Otate encampment nt lloeUmun and
fn prflpnratlon the various commands
had their equipment In perfect order.
All through tho night tho ofllcers
of the various units were busy get
ting In touch with their non-com-missioned
officers, who in turn trans,
mltted tho orders for assembly to
the enlisted personnel. Immediately
upon receiving orders from tho Wnr
Department Gov. Whitman got In
tpuch with Adjt. Gen. Louis W.
Stoteabury In Nuw York and Major
Oen. John F. O'ltyan, division com
mander, nt Camp Whitman. Tele
phones and tho telegraph wore- then
put Into use arousing the brigade
and regimental commanders, who
were told forthwith to send out tho
nssombly call fur their uuuiuuimls,
THE SIXTY-NINTH GETS TO ITS
ARMORY FIRST.
Tho members of tho "Fighting
Sixty-ninth" woro the llrst of Hit. iter
New York's 10,000 soldiers to respond
to tho call. Col. Louis P. Conlcy,
commanding tho Sixty-ninth, re
ceived his mobilization orders nt 11.25
o'clock last night and ho immedi
ately Instructed Armorer John Mill-
tins to notify tho statf and linu
(Continued on Second Face.)
strength and thoroughly equipped for
National Guard of New York, the
Twenty-third, would be mobilized
remaining nine to be encamped at
start for the Mexican border.
SPANIARDS IN MEXICO
ASK KINJS TO ARBITRATE
Alfonso Is Urped to Keep Peace
Between the Two American
Nations.
MADRID, Spain, June 19. The
Spanish I'icss Association to-day re
ceived a cablegram sent on behalf of
thn Spanish colony In Mexico City,
urging that King Alfonso tako action
to prevent war between thu United
States and Mexico.
Tho selection of trie King to -irhl-trate
differences hftwren the coun
tries Is suggested and the Press Ann
elation is requested to give its uup
port to this project.
GERMAN LOSS AT VERDUN
PLACED AT 415,000
London Authority Gives the Fig
ures for Struggle Now
On 119 Days.
LONDON. June 13. Herman iica
In thu battle of Verdun woro placed
to-day at 415,000 by n source that
has been In touch with tho stniTgln
since its start 119 dayH ago. The cstl
matn Is based on statements o prls
onois taken and on cuptuitd docu
ments, llli: Olil.lt I HAM. I. Ill UK. vu.
Amui rm.tyvr iwomi nun hut
&.I M I'm llu S V tin.
Ttckttn. ri'mii' iu .ailwi. At? ,l4 4j) nr.
im.U Ctni.lul IVl.tml aiul Heu't, Arnertrin
ltrni.hl;. I'hf. U(V thil .irrp rbnk rorm
0a iij tad ul;!.i. Iimlbn' ihtcki inj mou.i
wdm toe ul. TtUphaM BNkmu 4000, JlM,
PERSHING READY
El
FOR ANY ATTACK
Troops on 400-Mile Line Said
to Have Slept Under
Arms.
TRIES TO AVOID CLASH.
Orders Men to Be Careful and
Not Give Excuse for
Hostile Move.
COLUMDUS, N. M., Juno 19. Gen.
J. J. Pcrshln?, American expedition
ary commander. Is taking every pre
caution to prevent a clash with Car-
ranza troops --on account o- soma
ttlvlal Incident, according to reports
from thn field to-day. Ills men slept
under arms Inst night. Detachments
which for the last few weeks have
been operating within a few miles of
the camps of tho troops of the de
facto Government have been with
drawn, whllo scouting patrols have
been ordered to rldo their territories
with rxt renin caution.
All of tho soldiers of tho American
command havo been warned to oxer
clso great euro In dlstlngulohlng ban
dlts from Mexican soldiers. Close
watch Is being maintained on ltncs of
communication and upon passes
through which troops might mako
their way over the Sierra Madras
from Sonora.
I.cics of nhnenco which hud been
granted a number of officers nnd
men of the baso camp hero hao been
revoked by tho commanding officer,
the explanation being offered that the.
situation does not justify their leav
ing their commands.
Oen. I'ershlng is said to bo quietly
laying plans for quick dashes north
and south at the first sign of hos
tility. Ills plans, it is believed, are
to gain possession of tho Mexican
Northwestern Itallroad, which prac
tically commands tho territory ndjii
jcent to his line of communication.
The American commander is In re
ceipt dally of Information regarding
do facto Mexican Government troop
movements. Natives, treated kindly
by tho Americans, have voluntarily
supplied valuable Information.
More than 100 Mexicans employed
by tho l'nlted .States Army in re
building the motor ro.id from Colum
bus to the American Held bases In
Mexico quit work to-day and left
cunip at I'alomas, eight miles south
of tho border, for Interior points In
Mexico. The explanation was they
feared the vengeance of t'arranza fol
lowers. AMERICAN IS FINED
IN ENGLISH COURT
V. A. Nelson and Companion Ac
cused of Seeking War
ship Facts.
LONDON, Juno 19. John Pngnl of
Sweden, and William Anderson Nel
son, an American, said to bo roprc
bcntatives of a manufacturing com
pany "f t'amden, N. J., were fined t.'.O
each at Newcastle to-dav on the
chune of attempting to obtain In
formation about war vessels while
visiting shipjurds.
Tnl.c mill UniU Her l.lfi-,
Sophlrt Itlbo.Oi, twenty. six, committed
Milt'Ulu thl.i morning by IiiIihUiik nnn
till ninth a tub., attached to a Jot In
the klt'lun of her borne at No. U"j Unsl
Due llmilred md Thirtieth Street
lle Inndi'ind John, a hnkii. iiiieia-
i .u iiiseiit, told ui I'licer of
IP ilein i It i'it .t . . iiliu i. oiKMHe i d lh"
uuiiian cli.nl. Mint be emilii think of no
ittw.iii un) the .tiini'in Ahould liue
Kill.. I ber.elf. .Ml UUm.h u lift with
a flve-ymr-old u, Andrew.
BY THE MEXICANS
IN FRONT OF 69TH REGIMENT ARMORY TO-DAY
mmm Kt
T
OF U. S. WARSHIP
i
Sailors Fire B;u'k and Thre,
Mexicans, Incliulins Two
Soldiers, Are Killed.
WASHINGTON. .Mine 1! Mexican
Atnlmwwlor PeNlgnate Arrednndn to.
day presented to Secretary Lnilsllig n
reriuet that all American naval com
manders In .Mexican waters bo In
structed not to disembark "during
this time of excitement," even If they
aro unnrrned, In order to prevent pos-
slble complications.
Thn Embassy commiinlcatloiiH
brought the Washington ll.iverntnent
Its llrst noun of trouble at Mazatlan.
latest radio advices from Admltal
Wln.ilow on the I'ncllle coast maklmr
no iiientlon of it.
According to tho Mexican tvrslun,
contusion followed an at tempt to land
marines from n warship, tliero was
an exchange, of shots and two Ameri
can otllcer.i wero arrested and held
until explanations had been made.
Tho Kmbassy presented a report from
the military commander at .M.uutl.in.
lien. Me.ttn, toiling of the Incident,
accompanied by nstr.ictlnns fioi. ta
Me.xlci.ti Kon Ign Olhce, urging i.ni
tho American le kipt aboard tln.r
ships.
Jen. Me.to's reiiort Id tho nn 'i
landm! at .Ma.atlau wero marines, but
as tho gunboat AnnapolH, thn onU
ship known to bo there, had no ma
rines on board, It is presumed that
bluejackets were involved. Thu Me.tu
report told this story:
"A boat from tho watship np
pronched a Ma7.1t Inn wh.uf and s.is
warned to keep off until permission to
land could be obtained fiom tho mili
tary autiiorl'les, It went batik to tno
ship and M'Vcrul limns Inter n turned
with Ita crew armod. Thn olllcer In
command was told permission for
lauding had not been given and an
argument unaued. A ctowd of soldK rs
and civilians had gatheied uii tlie
wii.irf and In thn midst of tim discus,
si nn a diiinken .l.tpauesn the. I .s'.ul
ut thn Americans, who prumptly ie.
plied with i Milli ) Into tin. run 1.
t'arv.nz.i snl.l.eis returned tn.- lite
iiad thu boat "lthdrtw, Ivuvitik' bfi-
ON A BOA
see
FUNST0N LOOKS TO NEW YORK
FOR FIRST STATE TROOPS
RAN ANTONIO, Tex., June 19. It was Indicated at henriiiuarlers of
the Southern Department to day Hint (!eu. Kunston would reitiest the
War Department U nend him llrst th" militia of New York, Pennsylvania
and Illinois, as he believes he ran umke practical use Immediately of
these organizations.
hind two ollh'i'is, who weni arrested.
nxplillmtloiiH then were excliailgid
by lb" commander of the w.irsblp ami
Urn ran.. i ginei.il and tho Ameii
c.iu ollli't r iniiu tili'.ised,
Tli lepurl mi.Ki'H no mviiliou "f
Amerlc.in c.ihiimIIIi's, but says tun
Mexican M..III. im and nnu ciUII.ni
wi ni wuiimli il.
CORNELL'S FRESHMEN
WIN HUDSON REGATTA
1 SyraClhi!
I 'Thirl
t:illiillCs Si-nnd, I'iMlll
aiul Ciiluml'i.'i l..i-t
1 , II , n
Crews Kuw in U.iinMnim.
I'Ol'lillKlilll'Sli:, .Mine ! I'nnieli
won th- twn-inde fiesliiniin Inter
colleglato boat race to-day. Sra
ciif.e was m-ciiihI by a iiiatter of Inches
over reiins) Iviiula. t'oliimlda was a
poor fourth. Cornell, after landing
all tho way, spurted at thn llnisti,
when S incuse made a desperate tal
ly, a Mulshing drive that captund
second plain from tho unruHliltiK
Quaker i tew. Columbia was neer u
i. f. id' : lir th bad
Ti.. r.e i was .iwd duiiiiK a haul
.'..I.I st nil Til wind .111 'Lie win
.piwnstri aiii Tin- wuie'iig 'inn wu.
II "."i T'i-d ly's r i !iud In- n
postponed Ir'.m sm iphn
ROOSEVELT TO INDORSE
HUGHES, IS NEW REPORT
! Will ("une Out I'ul Iicly fir
C: t cliil.'itc After Muube Con
ference. 0ster ljii lleiirs.
( f t t'niiisl I'ri. i
OYSTKIt 1IAV. 1.. 1., dune IS. Col,
Ituusi velt Will public!) Indorse Cht'les
i:. Hughes as the It' pulduiin i'f'il.
' 1 v ' i 1 1 1 ii.indidatn num. d.at' I) uftut
(he mi ting ol tne I'lugienive Nil-
lloiiiil Commltte at c hicj. i. Juno I'ti.
It wis leu I. id li ie tn 'It,, uii In-'ll
l.iU'le'll'S
(For Racinu Itojults See P.iue Two.)
(Entries en Pauo 5.)
0 ST M :::
N. J. GUARDSMEN
10 REACH CAMP
BY WEDNESDAY
.ono Men re Nearly Ready
(o Pilch Their Tents at
Sea Girt.
New Jersey" contingent of the Na
tlonal tiiiiird ontereil mobllUed for
Mexican bonier duty will go Into
camp at .Sea (ilrt Wednesday, AdJI.
cien. Wilbur P. Sadler announced to
day, Three, regiments of Infantry
from Jersey L'lly, Newark und I'.iter
son, two troops of cavalry from New
ark, one from llci Hank and one from
I'lalnlleld, two h.rtcruM of Ibdil .itlil
lery from (ir.ume and Camden, it f,i.
nal corps from Jersey City, Held hos
pltal from I'lainflold and ambulance
corps from lted Hank, will bo in
cluded. Ollleern nnd men of the brigade
have been ordered to report at theli
.irmorbs to-ulght and to-morrow.
The .Second Itcgjmeut of Trenton
and the Third Iteglmcnt of Cumtlen
wer not Ineluileil In thn order, but
they !ntu nddressed n petition to the
fluverlior asking that they be enrolled
nt once for servlcu with tho Klrst
llrigude.
The officers' training school for Now
Jersty BUiirdsmcn was to have opened
to-du) ut Sea llrt and officers had
asxemliled then . bi.t sie.rth after mid
night Ooviniur PYddi-i sent mini to
lit lad.t : 1 Icin .'al lllne In ,,o ik up the
t.llllp Ut wl.'e .111.1 Ik 1 nil t with his
.tff tu-.l.i) at tile Kiiai ItubllUUUl
Aruiury Iu .Nuk,
TO GO;
10 DAYS
TROOPS TO STAY IN MEXICO
CARRANZA IS
J
N NOTE TELEGRAPHED TO-DAY
Every State Quickly Responds to
Call, and the Mobilization of the
National Guard Is Proceeding
With Unprecedented Speed.
CARRANZA ASKS U. S. NOT TO
LAND MEN FROM WARSHIPS.
WASHINGTON, June 19. While Hie whole country n-.is astir
to-day with the mobilization of the National Guard for border duly, Presi
dent Wilson directed that his reply rejecting Gen. Carranza's denuiiJfor
the recall of American troops from Mexico go forward immediately.
In refusing to withdraw the troops, the United States reaffirms' the
friendly intention.- of the United States toward the de facto government
in Mexico and sharply rebukes Gen. Cirratua for unwarranted charges
and insinuations of bail faith contained in his communication.
rre-ldent Hilton's lirm reunite to keep tho armed fnrrri nf the
rutted Males In .Mexico until such time as the Mexican tinTerntnent
pullers the border region so thoroughly that bandit raids Into
American territory arc Improbable Is understood tn tt clearly
stated In the nnle. Whether the suggestion of thn Perunrratlc plat
form plank, that Intenentlnn might be undertaken as a last resort,
also mis rniiiiiiiinlcali'il is not known.
LANSING SAYS NOTE CUES TO-DAY.
Secretary Landing announced that the note would be despatched dur
ing the day, but would not discuss its terms or say how it would be
transmitted. It hid been planned to send it by special messenger to the
Mexican capital, following the precedent set by Gen. Cirratua in trans
mitting his own demands.
Kecent developments along the hirdcr and Gen. Treviuo's warning
to Gen. Pershing, caused the wisdom of the plan to be doubted, and
there were indications to-day that the reply would go by telegraph to
special agent Wodgers in Mexico City for delivery to Gen. Qvranza. Mr.
l.aibing indicated that its text might be made public here to-night.
While these diplomatic steps were in process, a force of National
Guardsmen, which will not be less than ioo.cxjo strong and may exceed
that number by many thousands, was being mustered into the service of
the United Stales. Governors ol all States had replied before noon to-day
to in-tnictii'ib ent last night that their allotment ol troops be immediately
called nut. In each instance Secretary Haker was informed that the or
ders had been given aiul the men were arming and proceeding to their
State mobiiliatiiiii points. The lirst State troops are expected to be at
the Ivirder within ten das.
WAIISIIU'S IWMIWI) TO MEXICAN COAST.
Prom With coasts also additional naval vessels were under orders to
proceed tn Mexican waters for the relief or Americans who may gather
trom the interior. Jght cratt and transports are only engaged in this
-ervice. It necessary they will be able to go up shallow waters after
refut'ee-. Gm-iderahle anxiet) is tell t r the safety ot American citizens,
ot whom there still are about live thousand in Mexico, including one
thousand in the capit il.
During the day Pliseo Arredondo, .Mexican Ambassador Designate,
transmitted to Secretary Lansing an official report from his Government
that a clash occurred yesterday at .Mazatlan between a boatload of men
from the American gunboat in th; harbor and .Mexican soldiers who
ordered the Americans n it to land.
The report said a drunken Japanese had piecipitated the firing, in
which three .Mexicans were wounded. Two American officers who had
landed were arresle.I bin released alter the misunderstanding had been
cleared up.
Later a formal request from Gen. Carranza was transmitted urging
that no men from American warships be permitted to land, even unarmed;
during the present disttube.l stat; m public opinion.
In-iructkin.- to uav.il commander in Mexican waters have been to
allow im h rc liberis t. iliei: men and to end ml) such men ashore
as are necessary to get upplie- and mail.
Diplomatic ottutab were much stirred to-day by the possibility of
FIRMLY TOLD
'(
V
-tW-1-''
