fj VVft
V.',
"
IftelSatottjjfcm
WEATHER FORECAST:
Probably Fair Today.
tFull Report on Pago Two.)
HOME
EDITION
. .? 1liP$fl$
fme
NUMBER HOBO.
RUSH
FLAT
'SEAT FOR ALL
OPPOSED BY
Head of Traotion Companies
Here Protest Proposed
Standard of Service.
DEFEND CONDITIONS HERE
Declaring the standard of strest
railway service proposed for Wash
ington, "a seat for every passenger
during the non-rush hours and dur
ing the rush periods seven square
feet of space per standing passen
ger," to be too high, officials of
the street railways at a hearing be
fore the Public Utilities Commis
sion today said the solution of the
problem of overcrowding depends
upon the education and co-operation
of the public.
' Thetie"aring "Was attended bW
about thirty persons, many of.'
wiiwiu nwiw vitiwmia v iiiw iwv
traction companies.
Representatives of a number of
citziens associations and other
civic organizations were in attend
ance. NO COMPLAINTS.
W. P. Ham. vice president of tho
Washington Railway and Klectrle Com
pany, the first raker said the com
pany had never received a complaint of
mah hcxira.
Thla fact alone, he said, demonstrates
that sufficient care nro operated during
the non-rush hours and that occasional
orowdlng la cnused b passengers who
refused to distribute themselves. Mr,
Ham Hired that a varying standard bo
adopted.
The Htnndnrd proposed for Washing
ton, he said, la higher than that of any
other city. Before adopting a final or
der, tentative schedules, he declared,
should bo placed In effect In order to
determine exactly whrt Is needed on
various lines. In adopting: a standard
he urged that the commission take Into
consideration the wnfklng conditions
Imposed on tho trainmen by longer
hours of service.
A flexible standard to meet varying
conditions was urged alio by j. H. Man
na, vice president of the Capital Trac
tion Company.
Every Ohio Unit
Ordered to Service
Sixty-two Towns and Cities Will
Send Organizations to
Columbus Camp.
COWMBtrfl, Ohio, June 18.-8cores of
workmen today were malting ready the
1,000-acre mobllUatlon camp here to re
ceive over 4.S0O Ohio national guards
men ordered out for Mexican service.
Tho Ohio guard have taken the oath
of allegiance to the Federal Oovemment
since 13. and can t used in Mexico
at any time.
In sixty-two Ohio towns and cities of
ficers and privates were saying their
Siood-bys and closing ip their civil af
fairs today.
Adjutant General Demon Hough today
ordered practically every unit in tho
Ohio organisation to recruit to war
strength. When this Is finished the
Ohio regiments ordered out will total
over l!,ton men. Rnllr.ted men nti of
ficers will sleep In their respective ar
mories, starting tonight, within fivo
days most of the guard is expected to
be encamped here.
T. R. Will Indorse
Hughes Next Week
Action to Follow Progressive Na
tional Committee Meeting
Monday.
OTBTBR BAY. June 19. Colonel
noosevelt will publicly Indorse Charles
Evans Hughes, the Republican Presi
dential candidate. Immediately after
the meeting of the Progressive nation
al committee at Chicago June 11. It
vu learned on high authority today.
A
TO ENLIST IN
REFUSAL SENT
1 IfPlKil
BBsBBBBBLbBRt BBr iN aEWsH I BvVaDEBBBiBlMBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBr''- v. ulBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBi
BBsBsBBBBBHMFaBBttPRN!i vBJK ' tV,B ftrSSMBIBjBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB y-rMBjBBBBBBlBBBaBBBBBl
liBMMmSaBBBBWB "M4-"'-fc '4UBBBBBBBBIsrBK2BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBPP?P1
HBliiBiBHBt I iwn
II II -IIJII ft I H HI II III I I Bfflimi.,rtifei'V. aft2iAaBliiBBBBMdtirfAIHJ --arr-i it a m niinn vm
ii iiiikiu mil iwii-h - ii II ! i aMSB laiisa i' 'A4ni tmi ifiiiasiiii iiiiiiii- 111
u. u. mm iiiuuiull aHH .fflUUTO WW IU
INPAnIPTniTODIM mm-mKmM inAnniMT.ronninnc
niunmi lumuimun ssssiKg';.. f- 'js?.'BiRi i.unnumu.M.iinmA
Will Go Into Service of the Unit
ed States at Fort Myer When
Camp Is Established.
Tomorrow eevnlng the national
guard of the District of Columbia will
be In the service of the United States
and In occupation of the mobilization
camp at Arlington, Va, I
Orders were Issued this afternoon by
Drlg. Oen, William E, Harvey to vari
ous staff departments and the com
manders of the separato units of tho
organization to be prepared to go Into
camp tomorrow.
This afternoon members f the staff
of the commanding general made final
arrangements at Fort Myer for recep
tion of the District of Columbia troops
at the mobilization camp.
Major Alfred P. Robblns, quarter
master; Major Francis n, Whcaton, In
spector; Major John E. Whltaker. quar
termaster; Copt. Ollvor C. Terry, sig
nal corps, and Capts. Will Chano, Louis
C Wilson and Douglaa Dllis, of the
quartermarfU'r'i department, an busy
at Fort Myer with the officers of the,
regular army pieparlng the camp site
for the reception of the men.
At 1 o'clock this aftempon ofllccru of
the Third Infantry assembled at ua
tlonal guard armory and received from
Col, Olendle B. Young and tho bat
talion comtmnders final orders regard
In ahe assembling of the men tomor
row mornlns. The Third Roglmont's
officers declare they will be under can
vas by 2 o'clock tomorrow afternoon.
Guard Will Await
Call From Funston
National Guard Will Be Mobilized
In Respective States At
Present.
SAN ANTONIO, Tex., June 19,-Oen-eral
Funston stated this afternoon that
the national guard will be moMMcd In
its respective States and thut Its mem
bership will be sent to the border only
when ho culls for the various 3tat du
tachments. He added that It will probably be
somo lime unrnro any of theso troops
reach the bordor.
Only
President Can
Relieve Officer Now
CHICAGO, June 19. No militia
officer can be relieved of serv
ice during the life of his pres
ent commission except by or
der of tho President, according
to a War Department order
transmitted to Gen. Thomas H.
Barrick, commander of the
Central Department, today.
WASHINGTON,
mmL'JMfflm&amm - -.-
BBBsffiP.valBvPMBsS?v?i'lHB sssasMswswfl
BBBBBB2BK. i "?!?W'PBBBBBLB JSSs8MssBM?.il
lfBBHHSo,tN -f VBBJIJB MBK? m K;7a
BBBBBBBBP1BBh . ' JJMPstBBBMBBBBiBBBMiBl
Mv.' -!v 4JMftMlBBBBHBSBBBBBBBHH
BBBHB; 'lLLBrLLBSMniBBHBBl
TaTaTsaTaTaTaT 'VaTaTaaTaTaTaTaTaTaTaTaTaTaTaTaTaTaBTaTaTaTaTaTaTaTaTaTaTaTa
BBBuBBBBHnBBHBBBJBBBBKmj.BBH
bbbbbbbbMHBBBHBBBBHBBBBBHBBBBHI i
Photo by Ilurk.
Above: Scene in front of District Mlitla Recruiting Station today, while
men were rushing to enlist.
Brig. Gen. WILLIA ME. HARVEY.
Washingtonians Rush
To Enlist
75
Join in
Seventy-five men enlisted In the Dis
trict mllltla at the recruiting station,
IKS Pennsylvania avenue, between
o'clock this morning and 2 o'clock this
afternoon.
The applicants, pll of them neatly
dressed, businesslike-looking young
men, formed In line and Boomed Im
patient to reach tho recruiting officer'
desks and "sign up," ,
Among the applicants were a number
of youths lens than eighteen years old
who tried hnrd to persuade the recruit
ing offlcors that they were of the rei
3ulrod ago to don a uniform and shorn
or a musket, hut they did not succeed.
One very tall Wentern Union mes
senger enllMod, and marched proudly
from the building with his enlistment
papers stuck In the outside pock'it of
hto coat so all observers could soe It.
Henry Wood, of 911 I street northwest,
has the distinction of being the first re
cruit accepted for national guard serv
ice today.
Wood Is one of more than a hundred
men, young and old, short and tall, of
all classes of social distinction who ap
plied at the National Guard Armory
and at the recruiting station on Penn
sylvania avenue near Thirteenth street
for enlistment.
Recruiting Officers Busy.
The recruiting officers of the Third In
fantry, Lieuts, George A. Monagon and
Charles E. Smlthsov, were kept busy
from 11 o'clock attending to the wants
nf nnnllcanta for military service.
At national guard armory, where
MONDAY EVENING,
in Guard;
Morning
Lieutenant Smlthson was on duty
swearing In new man. rnnatnnt nra.
cession filed into headquarters of the
Third Inf.ntrv rrfi. .V. v ......... i.
after having been accepted by the
surgeons.
Hecrult Henry Wood Is a native of
Virginia, having come to Washington
about nve years ago from Bcott coun
ty, where he waa born. He served an
enlistment In the national guard and
was honorably discharged about four
inonins bko. as soon as he read that
the guard had benn nnraA Intn nrv.
ice he hurried to tho recruiting sta
tion on Pennsylvania avenue, where he
waa received by Lieutenant Mona
gon and sent to the L street armory.
He arrived there before the surgeons
were ready for him and had a long
wait for his examination.
Major Luce In Charge.
Major Charle.i E. Luce, surgeon of
tho Third Infantry, asslstod by Lieut.
W. Tastet, assistant surgeon, ws In
charge of tho physical examination of
men. The room assigned to the surg
eons and the corridors leading to It
wer crowded with men waiting to be
examined an hour beforo tho surgeons
arrived.
Major luco lost no time In getting
busy with candidates hji soon as he
arrived. A medical history of each man
was taken and then he was made to
strip and undcrap the most thorough
sort of an examination. Assistant Burg-
(Continued on Twelfth Pace.)
JUNE 19, 1910.
D. C. MILITIA;
TO CARRANZA
Many Cross From El Paso on
Learning of Order to Militia
of United States.
JUAREZ, Mexico. June 19.
Gen. Francisco Serrano, War
Minister Obregon's chief of
staff, arrived here today on a
secret mission. It is reported
Serrano will take command of
all Carranza troops in northern
Mexico In the event of war with
the United States. Serrano re
fused to discuss his visit.
EL. PASO. Tox.. Juno ID. Mexican
volunteers were reported today to have
rushed to Carranza colors as an an
swer. President Wilson's ordering of
American militia to the border.
Oeneral Trevlno, of Chihuahua. Is ru
mored to have Issued the vail for volun
teers. A number of J21 Pmo Mexicans went
to Juarex and enlisted In tho Carranu
arm. Mexican Consul Garcia sont nis
family from Kl Paso today, out Insisted
he would not clnseihls consulate here
Carrnnza's stand adKinst the continued
presence of American troops on Mexi
can soil Is reported to have resulted
lrt a wave of patriotism sweeping Mex
ico. The defacto government's armies
. hlnrr n-rllllri to thlr lltmSt tHlRtl).
i fienarat Bell today announced that
Oeneral Funaton's wishes
regarding
nrotectlon tor law-uyiums
Mexicans
along the border.
in the event of, war
would be
carried out In the Kl-Pao
iw xf.Tirann who mis-behave and
cause trouble for the United Htates au
thorities will be severely dealt with,"
sajd Bell. . ......., ..,.
A closer waicn.wiia imuwwu '"V""
for cmugglers. Much, ammunition has
been capTCreiT from itexlcan. trying to
carry arms across .the Rio Offnae.
wkiiv "':! "-- .-i---r rrr ..i-
Mexicans gainerca iur ji i"-"'V?'i
tnurei in jurnei aunuii hi-
53 SI1,
,"PJ"t:
'rhe'border was In a state of feverish
excJtement today.
Preparations were made to repeal an
attack on El Pasp In the event war is
declared between Mexico and the United
A Carrania move to cut off the re
treat of the part of tho American expe
ditionary forces wer reported.
Unconfirmed rumors were current
that Carrania had sent a messenger to
Washington notifying President Wil
son a state of war would bo declared to
exist between the two oountrlea Unless
the United States troops were ordered
withdrawn from Mexico within a week.
Every avallabln motor truck la In
uorvlco along the ttO-mlle American line
south of Columbus, N. M., rushing
ilflcs, "ammunition, and supplies to Gen
oial Pershing's armies of 18,000 well
teasoned men.
Btretchod In a horsesnoe curve around
them are 60.000 Carranxlsta troops, re
ported 111. fed, poorly trained, and bad
ly equipped. American arrivals from
Mexico stated . famine had spread
throughout tho country, and declared
that the de facto government has not
sufficient food supplies to maintain Its
army over thlrlv davs.
General Pershing's men are entrench
cd at stvateglc points. No frontal at
tack by Carranin's armies waa anticl
fated, but It mas feared American pa
rol! might clah with disorderly, un
controlled de facto troops. .. ,
rfln ou.
noon and Indulged n P"ehea, Tnere
were no "i Krlngoes ' in Jaurti .however.
Wmcn uio liiuua niw .w. .....
PRESIDENT SHARPLY
REJECTS DEMAND TO
WITHDRAW TROOPS
Note Forwarded Today Takes First Chief to
Task for His Intimation That Adminis
tration Is Making Political Capital Out
of Border Situation Local Guardsmen
Ready for Duty.
Backed up by the 100,000 National Guardsmen sum
moned to the colors by President Wilson and by the 5o,ooJ
regular army forces now in the field, the United States Gov
ernment today sennits reply to General Carranza's demand
for an immediate withdrawal of the Pershing expedition
from Mexico.
The reply contains a flat refusal. Although extremely
lengthy, and discussing in detail the circumstances under
which the expedition wa$ sent into Mexico, and the inten
tions of the United States as to rts remaining there, the note
is vigorous in tone.
Officials who have examined it declare that it rebukes
in sharpest possible language the attitude assumed in the
Carranza communication and the insinuations of the Mexi
can foreign office that President Wilson was keeping the
troops in Mexico for political reasons.
WITHDRAWAL X)NLY WHEN OUTRAGES CEASE.
Carranza is informed that the American troops will
not withdraw from Mexico until the Carranza government
demonstrates its ability and willingness to suppress the bor
der outrages and guarantee the American Government
against further violations of American territory.
The reply calls Carranza's attention in detail to the
outrages that have occurred since the Mexican demand was
received last month, and charges that, in many instances,
these outrages have been committed with the connivance of
Carranza authorities. The note is being sent by special
messenger.
In the meantime the work of mobilizing the national
guard is proceeding rapidly. By 9 o'clock this morning Sec
retary Baker had received from the governors of sixteen
States acknowledgement of the recipt of the President's call.
Brig. Gen. William E. Harvey, commanding the Dis
trict of Columbia National Guard, called at the War De
partment in person and was closeted with Brig. Gen. Albert
L. Mills, chief of the division of militia affairs, at 9 o'clock
this morning.
GUARDSMEN ARE ENTHUSIASTIC.
General Harvey informed General Mills that his organ
ization would be ready to go to the front within a week.
Wildest enthusiasm exists among members of the local
militia, and the National Guard recruiting office on Penn
sylvania avenue was crowded this morning with applicants
for enlistment.
Plans for mobilization of the District National Guard
are in full swing. Orders to the militiamen will be issued
this afternoon.
Actual mobilization will not begin until late today.
The men may be in camp at Radio, Va., by tomorrow.
A series of important conferences was held by officers
of the guard all today, arrangements being completed for
the detail of the mobilization.
Other States that have acknowledged receipt of the call
are Oregon, Georgia, Maine, Indiana, Montana, Colorado,
Idaho, Illinois, North Dakota, Ohio, Virginia, Washington
State, Mississippi, Vermont, Tennessee, Missouri, Michigan,
and New York.
Although it is the present intention of the War Depart
ment to use the State troops only on the border, releasing
the whole of Funston's regular army force of 38,000, if
necessary, for duty in Mexico, Secretary Baker nevertheless
has taken steps to make the national guard available for
service in Mexico also. He sent this morning to Chairman
Hay of the House Military Affairs Committee, the draft of
a joint resolution directing the President to apply section 1 1 1
of the new army reorganization act, under which the na
tional guard can be at once drafted .into the regular service
for foreign duty and compelled to serve. Secretary Baket
PBIOE ONEOHNT.
