Hue . ..$ H
I I Today's Meta! Prices TlL- -A tf a44 fik."f WvXwfcX- 1 4 P. M. CTTY EDITION I I
m New York, June 19.-S!lver, 64 34c; JS J V X yl' rW W VJ TV W "T WEATHER-Utah: Pair 'Tonight H
3 lead, $6.85; 3pelter, $13.00; copper, f k " and Tuesday; Cooler Tonight In H
HI $27:9529.25. fe"' North and East Portions. IH
H ' FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. j M
HjL . - lf
Ml Forty-sixth Year No. 146. Price Five Cent.. OGDEN CITY, UTAH, MONDAY EVENING, JUNE 19, 1916. ' Entered as Second Clan. Ma Iter at the fttofflce, Ojden, Utah, H
HWAR WITH MEXICO INEVITABLE!
il - l
National Guard of Every State Called Out and Preparations Made for a Long I
; Campaign Irritation in Mexico Increases American Sailors Fired Upon I
Carranza Troops Moving Toward the Border.
. .
Troop B of Ogden Ready '
i fo Respond to Orders
I
I ? Men in Khaki Gather at Armory in Answer to the Call From
I i Superior Officers Employers Notified Farewells Are
I Being Said Recruits Applying Married Men
i Feel the Responsibility.
1 - TROOP B, FIRST CAVALRY.
($ Captain "W. B. Kneass.
First Lieutenant Walter (Lindquist, Second Lieutenant Albert
v : r E. Wilfong.
! First Sergeant F. A. Smith, Quartermaster Sergeant N. D.
1 : McMillan, Duty Sergeants John M. Bihler, D. A. Scott, II. B.
; ILogan, J. "W. Farley.
t ; Corporals Owen Sherwood, Harry Richards.
' Trumpeters Lowell Baiter, Ben Garr.
; ' Privates,
j Lee Aclclev Herman Mover
f Fred T. Aycrs Guy C. McMillan
' James M. Baggs W. L. Naisbett
J Sam Bullough, Jr. Byron "W. Naisbett i
I I' a Harold, Bramwcll John Nyland ,,-v,. . ,
B l Joseph Brencs i George R. Newman
I I Albert J. Biddle r' " f Henry Olsen, Jr.
t IT. P. Bolandcrv ---,--. Frank Owens T
I i Mclvin Call Robert R. Powell '
! Orvis Call 4 Robert B. Shepherd '
; i "W. C. Chase Alfred M. Stegan
m ; Forrest Carhart "William Spidcll
1 ' : Leo. S. Doxey ' Clyde Scott
M Newton Dilh James Vellinga
3 : Irwin Fowler "1 George Udink
: ) AV. Goodmanson : M. J. Wiert
E. G. Ilousted .' Charles A. Whitney
B, Iverson , . Frank W. Wilson
J. Le Roy Jackson "" " Robert Wall
If Clyde Leavitt H, B. Tarringlon
F John A. McFoy Guy E. Yurrington
'. Truman Marler Amos II. Young
'i;
; American mobilization has begun!
i' At 2 o'clock this morning Captain
! y w. E. Kueass of Troop B, First Cav-
Sl airy, received a telegram ordering a
ffi:: mobilization of this division oC the
gm State National Guard. By 8 a. m.
S ''' thoeo who had received tho order
M i tvore pouring Into tho Armory and re-
Q t porting for duty.
M ; '. The guard was gradually augment-
H r ed all day long. The oflicers were
': kept busy throughout the day dis
P ,; tributing equipment and registering
f new recruits. During the morning the
I wall of the bugle giving orders to
I i the men, brought many curious spec
S .f lators to tho armor'
&i 1 After the men had reported Captain
H l Kneass permitted them to return to
H ) their places of employment and relin-
K quiBh their positions. Tho boys wero
'St in happy Bplrlts and seemed anxious
Itfgj to go. The younger boys, being Just
5 1 at the age when a desire for adven-
5 lure runs rampant, were the ones
J f' most anxious to go. One youth about
A ; IS years of nge, when asked how he
folt about going replied, that he was
i "Tickled to death;" another when
jf aBked the same question smiled and,
i drawing himself arrogantly up to his
j full hclghth, replied, "You dang right,
1 I'm anxious to go; 1 can't hardly wait.
' I hope we get a call this afternoon
to leave for tho border at midnight
tonight "
fji I The older men, mainly the married
g5' i ones, were not so vociferous as the
jjtf t ioun'ger boys.. They wero more
1 methodical and calm, taking the call
Im I mro as a duty than an opportunity
) I for adventure. Sergeant Logan, when
S i asked how he felt regarding tho call,
im ? replied, "No I can't exactly say that I
2JU am anxious but I consider It my duty;
5wtt so 1 am willing to go."
R "Are you married?" he was asked.
R "Yes, and have two little children;
l that Is my only regret, leaving my
I wife and children."
I Captain Kneass reports that there
I'f Is still a need for more recruits.
ft; Troop B now consists of 46 men and
m it is Captain Kneass' desire to in-
K crease it to 70 before leaving for the
m border.
It "When quebtloned as to the time of
the Ogden boys' departure for the
K front .Captain Kneass said:
m "The only orders I have up to the
m) present time are to mobllizo and
equip my men for active service. The
concentration polut is Salt Lake City;
when the adjutant general so orders
we will concentrate there and be sub
ject to his orders from then on as to
our further movements." Captain
Kneass explained the process of mob
ilization In this country, and contin
ued: "All members of the company have
been notified but there are three who
have not reported due to the fact that
they are out of town. More recruits
are needed we prefer men who have
had aome service."
Caring for Families.
In speaking of the families of the
troopers, Captain KneaBs said.
uNo, there is no provision made by
the government nor any one else for
the families of men; but there should
be an expression from the business
men of this town as to whether or
not these boys will receive their posi
tions back when they return. It Is
hard on some of them, especially the
married ones Think how you'd feel,"
said the captain turning to the re
porter," to leave a wife and some
little children unprovided for; simply
out on the world. Something should
bo done. These young men have an
swered the call of their country and
havo not flinched and It should be
up to the men of the town who do not
havft to co. tn see that tho families
of these men are cared for."
Captain Kneass stated that, begin
ning with today, the soldiers wiil
work eight hours every day drilling
and going through all the regular
army maneuvers.
About 10:20 a well built young man,
about 24 years old, swung open the
door to Sergeant Smith's room and,
with perspiration rolling oft his face,
and out of breath, asked, catching his
breath at Intervals, "Are you filled
up?"
"Not yet," replied the Sergeant.
"Good!" mumbled the stranger
making for Captain Kneass room to
enlist.
Texas Ranger.
The next applicant Avas a powerful
ly built Texas Ranger giving the name
of "Bob" Hall. He stood 6 feet In his
stocking feet. The array regulation
Is that no man should bo taller than
5 feet 10 inches or lower than 5 feet
4 Inches; however those points are
stretched in many instances as there
are many other qualifications to be
taken into consideration.
Sergeant Bihler stated reluctantly
that he had been married but two
months A previous - question as to
the cause of his reluctance in wanting
to go to the border, was not pushed"
further.
The men evpect to give several pa
rades through town today. Though
it Is utterly unknown to tho officers
hero just when this company will
leave, it is thought to be within the
next two days.
PRESIDENT REJECTS CARRANZA'S
DEMAND FORJUTROOPS' RECALL
Refuses to Withdraw Until de Facto Government Can Kestore
Order Sharply Rebukes Mexican President for Un
warranted Charges and Base Insinuations Force of
National Guardsmen of 100,000 Being Mus
tered In Many More Thousands
May Be Called.
NAVAL VESSELS ARE UNDER ORDERS
c
Naval Commanders in Mexican Waters Instructed to Allow
No Shore Leave Foreign Diplomats Deeply Stirred
and Seek Safety for People.
Yk u g on, June 19. While the'
VihoJicouuty -was. as.tir today with
the mobilization of National guards
for border duty, President Wilson di
rected that his reply rejecting General
Carranza's demand for the recall of
American troops from Mexico go for
ward immediately.
In refusing to withdraw the troops
the United States re-affirms tho
friendly intentions of the United
States toward the de facto govern
ment in Mexico and sharply rebukes
General Carranza for unwarranted
charges and insinuations of bad faith
contained in his communication.
President Wilson's firm resolve to
keep the armed forces of the United
Slates in Mexico until such a time as
the Mexican government polices the
border region so thoroughly that ban
dit raids into American torritory are
Improbable is understood to be clearly
stated in the note
Secretary Lansing aunounced that
the nolo would be dispatched during
the day but would not discuss its
terms or say how it would be trans
mitted. It had been planned to send
It by special messongor to the Mexi
can capital Recent developments
along the border and General Trc
vino's warning to General Pershing,
however, caused the wisdom of this
plan to be doubted, and there were
indications today that the reply would
go by telegraph to Special Agent Rod
gers in Mexico City for delivery to
General Carranza.
Mustering In Guards.
While these diplomatic steps were
in process a force of national guards
men which will not be less than 100,-
000 strong and may exceed that num
ber by many thousands was being
mustered Into the service of tho Unit
ed States. Governors of all states had
replied before noon today to instruc
tions sent last night that their allot
ment of troops be Immediately called
out. In each instance Secretary Bail
er was informed that the men were
arming and proceeding to their mobill
zatlon points.
Naval Vssels Under Orders.
From both coasts also, additional
naval vessels were under orders to
proceed to Mexican waters for the
relief of Americans who may gather
from the interior. Only light craft
and transports are engaged in this
service. If necessary they will be able
to go up shallow water after refugees.
Considerable anxiety is felt for the
safety of American citizens of whom
there are still about five thousand In
Mexico.
Eliseo Arredondo, Mexican ambassa
dor designate, submitted to Secretary
LanBing a report of a clash at Mazat
lan yesterday between Mexican sol
diers and a boat load of men from
the American gunboat Annapolis.
Later a formal request from Gen
eral Carranza was transmitted urging
that no men from American warships
be permitted to land, even unarmed,
during tho present disturbed state of
public opinion. Admiral Winslow Is
trying to reach the Aimapolls by radio
for a report on the incident
Instructions to Naval Commanders.
1 Instructions to naval commanders
j in Mexican waters have been to allow
saa b Mgs
no shore leave to treir men and to
send such men-ashoretas is necessary
to get supplies and mail.
Diplomatic officers were much stirr
ed today by the possibility of actual
hostilities between the United States
and Mexico which they saw in the
mobilization of the National guards.
Many have nationals in Mexico for
whose safety they wish to provide.
Members of congress who discussed
the Mexican situation today, were
virtually a unit without regard to
party affiliations, in approving the
president's call for the National guard.
Republicans contended, however, that
a decided course adopted long ago
might hae made the call unneces
sary. The senate adjourned after a flve
imnutes' session today, out of respect
to the memory of the late Senator
Burleigh of Maine, and the house de
voted itself to general legislation.
Proceedings in both houses were
opened with prayers by the chaplains
that war might bo averted.
In regard to the general situation
in Mexico, Secretary Lansing allowed
It to become known that dispatches
to the state department showed ex
citement and Irritation in many sec
tions below the border. The texts of
the dispatches were withheld
Columbus, N M . June 19. Notwith
standing the threat of General Tre
vlno, the Mexican commander, to at
tack him If he moves in any direction
except toward the border, General
Pershing, field commander of the
American expeditionary column in
Mexico. i6 said to be quietly laying
plans for a campaign north and south
at the first sign of hostilities. His
plans, It Is believed by close observ
ers here, are to gain possession of
portions adjacent to his line of com
munication General Pershing's men slept with
their ears to the ground last night
The night passed peacefully except
for a light rain which pattered against
their "dog tents " Even the dogs and
cats of which they are great numbers
in camp, were on the alert, according
to messages received here, Tho can
ines and felines howled and yowled
during the night but despite the hide
ous noises, the boys in khaki slept
General Pershing Is in receipt dally
of information regarding dc facto Mex
ican government troops. Natives,
treated kindly by the Americans have
voluntarily supplied valuable Informa
tion. Mexican Troops at Laredo.
Laredo, Texas, June 19. Five hun
dred infantrymen and two hundred
and fifty artillerymen of the Mexican
army arrived in Nuevo Laredo, Mexi
co, opposite here, yesterday, and pa
raded through tho streets. The parade
was witnessed by a large but orderly
crowd.
An anti-American demonstration is
reported to have been been prevented
In Nuevo Laredo Saturday, by General
Renaldo do La Garza, who dispersed a
crowd being addressed by Eusibo Gon
zalos, mayor of tbat city.
Eight Americans, mostly employes
of mining companies, arrived here
tonigbt. They complained of mistreat
ment recently at the hands of Mexi
cans. It was reported Consul Silllman
probablywould arrive here soon.
Silliman Fails to Arrive.
Laredo, Texas, June 19. Although
a half dozen American refugees ar
rived from the interior of Mexico here
this morning, John R. Silliman, Ajner
ican consul who has been stationed
at Saltillo and ordered out last week,
was not among the number His ar
rival has been anticipated for the last
four days.
Chicago, June 19. War excitement
showed itself today on 'change. The
effect of the call of the United States
militia to the Mexican border was
chiefly noticeable in higher prices on
wheat A rise of lc a bushel was
shown in some cases, the September
option selling at $1.01 1-4 as against
$1.02 3-4 in Saturday's latest transac
tions. Columbus, N. M June 19. More
than one hundred Mexicans employed
by the United States army in re-building
the motor road from Columbus to
the American field bases in Mexico,
quit work today and left camp at Palo
mas, eight miles south of the border,
for interior points In Mexico. They
explained that they feared the ven
geance of Carranza followers.
Handbills and pamphlets recently
were distributed among the laborers
urging it as their patriotic duty to re
frain from being employed by the
Americans and to leave the zones held
by the American expeditionary com
mand. Reports from the field today,
however, indicated no other large exodus-
of the male. Tesidents along ihe
line of communication.
RUSSIAN ARM!
IN CZERN0W1TZ
Austrians Fought Desperately
for Time to Evacuate Capi
tal City Fall Came at
Dramatic Moment.
London. June IS. 5 32 p. m After
hard fighting in the suburbs end on
the river Pruth, where the Austrians
fought desperately with a view to
gaining lime for the evacuation of
Czernowitz by their army and the
lemoval of military stores from the
city, .General Lechditzkv has finally
entered the capitil of Bukowina Tho
capture is an important one, as it en
tails the command of several Import
ant railway lines. The city has been
untenable for aoveral days becauao
of tho tremendous Russian bombard
ments which compelled the flight of
the civil Inhabitants and evacuation
of the place by the Austrian forces.
Fall Comes at Dramatic Moment.
The recapture of Czernowitz by the
Russians comes at a dramatic mo
ment, it happening only a few days
after the Austrians. with Imposing
ceremony, had unveiled on the city
hall a double-headed Austrian eagle
such as the Russians had removed
during their occupation or tho city last
year.
Russian headquarters announces the
capture of Czernowitz in the usual
laconic terms. It gives no descrip
tion of the desperate fighting known
to have occurred for the crossings of
the Pruth river after the Austrians
blew up the bridges, but adds the In
teresting fact that the Austrians are
being pursued into tho Carpathians
which is the only alternative to being
driven into Rumania, where they
would be interned.
Russian Cavalry.
This pursuit appears to show that
the Russian cavalry is still active,
but the military critics bere are be
ginning to wonder how long tho Rus
sians can maintain the rapid advance
which must bo tending to attenuate
their lines of communication.
Austrian headquarters has admitted
the loss of Czernowitz with alarcity,
but at the same time claims that the
Austrians are holding the Russians In
Volhynla, with the aid of tho Germans
north of tho Turya river which is an
affluent of the Prlpet, Joining the lat
ter river north of Kovel.
Troops Drawn From French Front.
The Russian official account makes
the Interesting revelation that Ger
man reinforcements have already been
brought from the French front to the
assistance of tho hard pressed Austrians.
HEAVY FIGHTING IS IN PROGRESS I
BETWEEN RUSSIANS AND GERMANS I
Czar's Troops Are Pushing Forward Toward Kovel Germans H
Claim Partial Repulse of Enemy in Counter-attacks fM
Crown Prince's Attacks on Verdun Make no Head-
way Situation Along the Styr River Crucial H
Russians Take More Prisoners Air H
Squadrons Kept Busy. H
Petrograd, June 1 9, via London, 6 p. m. The Russians H
took 3,000 prisoners in the city and vicinity of Czernowitz, the H
war office announced today IH
Paris, June 19, 10:30 a. m. The Havas correspondent H
at Saloniki telegraphs that news "has just been received there IH
that Bulgarian troops in the region of Fiorina and Monastir H
have begun an advance. H
German attacks on French positions
north of Verdun have been resumed
but tho crown prince's forces have
been prevented from making any fur
ther advance, the Paris war office
announced today.
Correspondents on tho eastern front
point to the fighting along ,ie Styr
near Kolkl, as crucial. The Germans
are assisting the Austrians In an at
tempt to check the Russian drive for
the railway Junction of Kovel,
Paris. June 19, 12 noon. A Ger
man infantry attack on the French
position north of the Hill No. 321 was
icpulsed by the French batteries yes
terday, according to an official state
ment issued by the war office today.
The Germans are continuing their
bombardment at Dead Man Hill and in
the Chattancourt region.
The text of the statement says;
"South of the Somme an enemy at
tack near Lipons failed.
"On the left bank of the Meuse the
enemy has bombarded the southern
slopes of Dead Man Hill and the coun
tiy around ChaJLtancourt Our artil
lery everywhere responded.
"On the right bank of the river a
pronounced German attack against
our positions north of Hill No. 321
was repulsed.
"During the night of June 1S-19 two
of our air squadions bombarded the
barrack? and the railroad station at
Vouzicies. One squadron threw
down thirty-six shells of large calibre
and the other one 26."
Berlin, June 19. via London. Heavy
fighting is in progress between the
Russians pushing toward Kovel and
the Teutonic forces opposing them in
the Stokhod-Styr sector, tho war of
fice announced today. The Russian
attacks, the statement says, have been
partly repulsed by means of success
ful counter attacks.
The army headquarters' statement
says:
"Western front: South of the Belgo
French frontier as far as the Somme,
flghtin continues.
"A French hand grenade near Cha
vonne, south of Vailly, was repulsed
"Explosion of a German mine on
La Fille Morte height in the Argonne
gave good results.
"In the Meuse region the firing in
creased appreciably toward evening
and during the night it attained
great intensity on Dead Man Hill,
west of the hiliund from Thiaumont
wood to Fort Vau. Yesterday attempt
ed attacks at Thiaumont wood were
frustrated. In the fighting of the last
two days 100 French were made pris
oner. "Several, attempts at night attacks
by the enemy in Fumin wood were
repulsed by hand grenade engage
ments. "One British biplane fell near Lens
and another north of Arras after se
rial battles. Two of tho occupants
were killed.
"One French machine was shot
down west of the Argonne. A German
air squadron attacked tho railway and
military factory establishments at
Baccarat and Raon L'Etape.
"Eastern front: On tho northern
portion of tho front nothing of im
portance has occurred. On the rail
way lines of Gachoaischi-Lunlnioc,
which was being used for military
transports, numerous bombs have
been dropped.
Russian Attacks Partly Repulsed.
"As regards the army groupB under
General von Llnsingen on the Styr
west of Kolkl and on the Stokhod In
tse!BBaass
the region of Kovel-Rovno railway, rB
Russian attacks have been partly re- IH
pulsed by means of successful counter IH
attacks. IH
"Northeast of Lutsk our troops are IH
engaged in a battle which is going H
in our favor. The number oX prison- IH
ers and the amount of booty have in- IH
creased. Southwest of , Lutsk the M
Russians are attacking in the direc- vB
lion of Gohochov. IH
"As regards the army of General IH
Count von Bothmer, the position is H
unchanged." H
Russians Fighting Germans. M
London, June 19, 10:15 a. m. Heavy H
fighting between the 'Russians ad- IH
vancing toward Kovel and the Ger- IH
mans under General von Linslngen Is IH
reported by the Berlin Tageblatt's cor- IH
respondent at Austrian headquarters, IH
nccording to an Amsterdam's dispatch H
to the Exchange Telegraph company. H
The Russians are in superior num- iH
bers and the dispatch asserts that the H
Tageblatt's account of the fighting is H
worded so as to prepare Berlin for IH
the news of another Teutonic retreat. IH
The Tageblatt says that the Austri- H
ans have taken Afresh positions be- IH
tween Czernowitz and the Dueister IH
where they are awaiting further Rus- H
sian attacks. In the middle Stripa IH
I sector, on the direct line to Lent- H
berg, the German general. Count von IH
Bothmer, is reported to bo maintain- H
ing his resistance against heavy pres- H
sure by the Russians. H
oo H
GEN. GALLIENI I
DIES Mi) I
French Army Officer of High M
Rank, Under Treason
Charge, Shoots Former
Minister of War. M
New York, June 39. The death of H
General Joseph S. Gallienl, former H
minister of war of France, was due H
to a murderous attack by a French H
army officer of high rank under H
charges of treason, and not to natural H
causes, according to stories told here H
today by passengers arriving on tho H
French liner Lafayette. Gustave lies- H
louln, an attache of the French war IH
office here for the second lime on a H
government mission, would neither af- H
firm nor deny the tale. H
General Gallienj was shot and fatal- H
ly wounded while closeted with tho H
officer In his Paris office, the arri- H
vals from France said. T;ho general, H
after an illness of three weeks, died H
on May 27. H
General Gallicni's assailant waB ar- H
restod, the Lafayette's passengers H
said, and his fate is unknown; He H
had been summoned before his chief, H
it is reported, to answer the chargo H
of having negotiated with the Ger- jH
maus for the surrender of a fortress IH
at Verdun. H
SAVED. M
(From the Boston Transcript) H
"If It hadn't been for his wife, Bar- H
ton would havo squandered his en- H
tire fortune." H
"What did she do?" H
"She just anticipated him." JH
IWi , . . - ' " " " M
I June Festival For the Benefit of The Children's Aid at the Home of Mrs. David ILccles H
I at 8 O'clock Tonight H
S 4 ' I
