DAILY EAST OREGONIAN, PENDLETON, OREGON, MONDAY, JUNE 19, 1916.
PAGE THREE
DAILY EVENING EDITION
DAILY EVENING EDITION
WKATHKR
Falrt tonight, Tiiflnv fair inn
TO ADVERTISERS.
The Kant OrcKnlftn bag ttie lartffit bunt
fide ami nuarRnte.'l paid ('Imitation of any
paper In Oregon, east of l'ortlitod and Ij
far i lit- largest circulation Id 1'eudletoo of
any newipaper.
VKSTKKDW S WKATIIEfl DATA.
Mum, i tti temperature. 92. mini
mum, 3; ralnf.ill. trace, wind brisk;
weather cloudy
CITY OFFICIAL PAPER
COUNTY OFFICIAL PAPER
EIGHT PAGES
!-
VOL. 28
DAILY EAST OREGONIAN, PENDLETON, OREGON, MONDAY, JUNE 19, 1916.
msjis BP"9" 1051
,MllI UliSfcWO
NO. 8839
Border Towns Preparing For War
Plan Underway For Normal School Here
EL PASO IS FORTIFIED AGIST
POSSIBLE ATTACK By MEXICANS
ACTION ISITAKEN
AT INSTANCE OF
STATE TEACHERS
Constitutional Amendment Will Also
Validate Locations of U of 0, 0.
A. C, Monmouth and Ashland
Normals.
UP TO PEOPLE THIS FALL
Fresh Troops Ready for Rush Into Mexico
Hill nidc One Th1iI- With MW
Maintenance Tax. -,) fr,'
BaSdtn(i Pendleton will provide
Prw Bile for pWrtf Itnuj IIohiI to
Have School itm by mil of mi;
In response t" earnest and repeated
advice from teai hers and educational
folk throughout till mate local people,
axe takliiK active attPi under the Ini
tiative to provide ror the estublish
nient of a mat, normal school at Pen
dleton PuClttOM for submitting the
measure are n being circulated and
the proposition will tie on the ballot
at the election in November. Th
conditions surrounding the move are
such as to make It very probable that
th measure will carry.
The measure will be In the form of
a Constitutional amendment and pro
vides an immediate appropriation of
IllS.fOt t" be used In the . instruc
tion of an administration Iw. and
a girls' dormitory' The Is to be
provided free of corf to 4ne state bj
the people of l'endleton. the statu
board to Judg as to the adenu o y ot
the site. An annual tax of one twenty-fifth
of a 'Mill for maintenance Is
also provided.
VaUrtatai rjaUefW,
In addition to providing for a nor
mal school tOr astern OftfOD the am
endment also validates the locations
of the I'nlvcr-dty of uregon, the Ore
gon Agrlcultut.il College, the normal
school at Monmouth and the Ashland
Donna) However, no money is pro
Tided for the Ashland normal, which
is now out ol operation.
The reason for Including the state
schools In the measure is the fact
there Is a leg. 1 cloud upon the loca
tions of thoBe schools. The original
constitution of Oregon provided that
all state Institutions should be located
at the ''lit'e capital Apparently the
university the igrleultural college and
the normal schools were located In
violation of that provision, though tho
point was never contested K-lght
roan ago a constitutional amendment
passed to pave the way for the Baftt
ern Oregon folate Hospital validated
the locations By Inference, though not
in ft pacific terms. Therefore It la
(Continued on Page Four )
bAS COVIN E ' CAVALRY. '
Carranza Said to Have Ordered
Retreat of Americans Cut Off
American contingent, about to lie
impairing po
ure shows so
foW-fr'm. Serve?
.ent Into Mexico In the latest crisis, is equipped with a motor-cycle and side-car machine gun attach
of thlB gasoline ' cavalry mobilized at Kl Paso Texas, ready for the dash across the border.
RUSSIAN DRIVE IS
PRESSING FORWARD
Czernowitz is Now in Hands of Slavs
day. It declares that General Lin
slngen's forces defending that portion
of the line only partly repulsed the
Russian attack
July Options Fall
Off a Few T'oinls
range
LONDON, tune 1. With Czerno
Wlta captured, the Itusslans renewed
lihelr furious attacks near Hrody. op
I poftttft Weinberg. I'etrograd reports. If
the drive Is successful, the Hussian
'line from Lutftk to Ftoumanla will be
! straightened. Heavier resistance
than thai it CaarnoWlta is expected.
Heavy righting continued in the Ko-
VCl region, the Itusslans slowly but
: steadily advancing deftplte a stubborn
, resistance.
PARIS
1!
Violent Herman
I attacks north of Hill 321 were repuls
led, a Communique declares. West ofj
the Meuse the Hermans shelled the!
southern slopes of Peadman s Hill
heavily. A Herman attack at Chattan !
Court was repulsed. Two squadrons of
French airmen bombarded the Vou-1
sierres barracks, dropping 10 heavy i
caliber shells effectively.
UK KLIN. June lit. (Via London.)!
An admission that the Russians are
making prognss opposite Kovel was
contained in -in official statement to-1
rnirlnn tone 19. Ti
of prices was as follows:
open High Close
July ItuMV !.? l-n2V
Sept 11.04V Jl.oi7 S 1-04 Aj
PORTLAND, Ore.. June 19. Port
land prices today were as follows:
Club S2; bluestem. 95.
Cavalry Troop to
Organize Here if
More Men Needed
KEN rOllJ) BE ORGANIZED
Hl.IlK W ITHIN 48 HOCB8
AFTER CALL.
The production of automobiles in
the United s;;:es increased 350 per
cent between 1909 and 1914. accord
ing to the Tinted States census bureau.
Marches in Washington's Preparedness Parade
OREGON MILITIA
MOBILIZING
IS
IN GREAT HASTE
PORTLAND. Ore.. June 1
Throughout Oregon, Washington and
Idaho today uiate troops bustlod and
hurried Has'y enlistments swelled
the companies. Preparations for the
Oregon militia to move to Clackamas,
Washington militia to American Ijiko
and Idaho mll'lla to Boise were made
speedily All troops will probably not
be actually moblllaed until tho last ol
Hie week, thotlfh they will be held In
readiness, in the meantime recruit
ing continues rupldly. Tho coast ar
tillery haft received orders to hold It
self In readiness to mobilize, but was
not Included In the president's mobll
uutlon c.rder. The briskness of tho
recruiting Indicates that tho youths
ire anxious to go to Mexico. Patriot.
IC feeling Is hlfh. Flags were display
ed nnd state recruiting fttatlom
-prang up everywhere.
! y . -- - 1
In the event that President Wilson
' issues a second call ror state troops,
1 a company of cavalry will in all prob
I ability be formed in Pendleton. Al
I ready preliminary steps have been ta
ken In anticipation of such an event
uality. Early this morning Captain Max S
Kern, until a year ago a staff officer
111 the department of ordnance, held
a telephone c nversation with Adju
tant General White and promised a
company of cavalry from Pendleton
upon 4(i hours' notice and a company
ot Infantry upon 24 hours' notice
Captain Kern 'li now taking the names
of men who are ready to go should a
company be organised and has already
secured a considerable nucleus.
At present there is but one troop of
cavalry in Oregon and that is not of
maximum strength, should open hos
tilities between this country' and Mex
ico ensue, it is believed that a large
number of cavalrymen would be ne
cessary and Captain Kern thinks that
l'endleton woud be asked to raise a
company it would take about 100
men to form a company and he be
lieves this Dumber could be easily se
cured. Several Pendleton men, members ot
companies in other cities, have already
left to join their companies and pre
pare for a Journey to the border
.Many former ;;uardsmen of the city
are longing for a chance to get into
action and would lend their best ef
forts toward providing a company
from this city.
Unconfirmed Rumor Declares That De Facto
Head Has Sent Note to Wilson Saying That
Unless U. S. Forces are Withdrawn Within
Week, War Will be Declared; Supplies Being
Rushed to Pershing's Men in Mexico; Wilson
Sends Reply to Carranza Refusing to With
draw Expeditionary Force.
EL PASO, June 19. The border scented war today. Pre
parations have been made to repel an attack on El Paso in the
event that war is declared.
Carranza was reported to have ordered a movement of his
troops to cut off the retreat of a part of the Amerjcan expedi
tionary force.
It was rumored, but not confirmed, that Carranza has sent
a message to Wilson saying that war will be declared unless
the American troops are ordered withdrawn within' a week.
Every available motortruck along the 280 mile American line
south of Columbus is rushing rifles, ammunition and food to
Pershing's army of 15,000 seasoned men. Stretched in a horse
shoe curve around them arei 50,000 Carranzistas, reported to
be illfed, poorly trained and badly equipped.
Persons arriving here today stated that the famine in Mex
ico has sprtead throughout the tountTyV Vi irta declared that
the de facto government has not sufficient food to maintain its
army more than 30 days.
Pershing has entrenched at strategic points. No frontal at
tacks are anticipated but it is feared that American parols
might clash with some of the disorderly and uncontrolled Carranzistas.
WASHINGTON. June 19. Secretary of War Baker took
steps today to make the militia ready for service duty inside of
Mexico. He sent a copy of the special resolution to the house
military committee making immediately effective the section of
the army law giving the war department authority to order the
militia into foreign territory.
Baker insisted that the plan was merely precautionary. He
said that the situation teemed with the wildest possibilities and
that every effort is being made to prepare for eventualities.
The American reply to Carranza's note demanding the with
drawal of American troops will be sent forward this afternoon.
The Mexican government has requested that the command
ers of the American navy make no attempt to disembark dur
ing the present excitement even though unarmed.
Wilson's note to Carranza is 10.000 1 excitement and irritation in Mexico
words long There is clearly no mis- than heretofore
take that he ably declines to withdraw
the expeditionary force and answers
Carranza's misstatements of fact, and
points to many incidents which make
it imperative that the Pershing expe
dition remain
rele.
afternoon.
Admitting the gravrty of the situa
tion. Lansing
This statement was significant he
cause of Lan'ings persistent refusal
for weeks past to make comment ex
cept to mentnin the cooperation ot
Carranza. The niii mi..- nr.lr.i, r-
Lansing would not . trnh, h,.h ,..;. '
UN the note for publication this amial clash between the HatioM
American forces. The announcement
said
"There
(Continued on Page Four )
Minneapolis has a new directory In
which the longest name Is Bohlmmelp
fonlng and the shortest Elk In all
360,367 persons are listed. There are
nearly 5000 families of Johnsons.
SCHOOL ELECTION IS TODAY
The annual school election of Pen-'
j dleton district is being held this aft-1
ernoon for the selection of a succes-1
sor to J. V. Tallman as director fori
six years. The only two candidates
:J'e Dr I. L". Tomple and Mrs S. A.
Lowell
Tho voting hours are between ; and
K this afternoon but tho election board
w is not ready until after 2:15. Quito
a number of ladies and men were
present waiting to cast their ballots
and it is expected that quite a large
vote will turn out
Mobilization of Guard Goes
on Throughout the Country
PjeSSIDENT WIISON MARCHING lNPreJ?AREQNXS5 PARADE..
Gaqz tun sea.
This photograph shows President Wilson, attired In a blue serge coat, white duck trousers, and a jaunty
straw hat. marching In the prepared ness parade In Washington on Wednesday, June 14. Rudolph Kaufman
and William F. Oude, marchlnc on either side of the president were attired In frock coats of black.
WASHINGTON, June is Mobiliza
tion of the tnlPtia prooeeded through
out the CQUntty today. No orders dis
patching the ir.'.litia to the border had
been announced up to noon. Many
may never go as the object in making
them available is a precaution against
trouble by calling Carranza's bluff
ami perhape averting war
The militia call was believed to bo
a real test of the preparedness de-
very tate ln
BMH gen. rail
le border,
inced that he
nisent oils J-
mands Kepo-ts fro
dicate that the mil
are anxious to t
Chairman Pay it
would ask uaaulmoi
ternoon for (he passage or a resolu
tion permitting the us.. ..r the Militia
on foreign soil. If unanimous consent
la not granted he wilt obtain a sp.-rl.il
rule and put the mutter ihiougb
speedily.
I
KniM-h l"Ktrii KevubwL
HKIiLIN June 19 A repulse of a
French patrol attack near lteaulne
was officially announced. Artillery
duels are progressing on the Verdun
front.
The Oroton river, which furnishes
to New York the greater part of the
water consumed In Its limits, was
named for an Indian chief.
Colonel Will Endorse Hughes
T. R. Will Make Public Announcement Immediately After the National
Committee ot the Progressives Hold Meeting
OYSTER HAY. June 19 Koose- what the committee will do but it n
velt will publicly endorse Hughes 1m- expected to accept kooetrlr ..-. li
mediately after the progressive natl- nation of the progressive MMtftMtfcM
Qnal Committee hearing at Chicago on I Roosevelt however, ould not tm
June It was learned on high au. I bound by the committee. (PM iho igh
thority today. It Is not known just lit refused to accept the refusal.
