n
MES
VOL. XX NO. 81.
BARRE, VERMONT, MONDAY, JUNE 19, 1016.
PRICE, OXE CENT.
THE BARRE DAILY
NATION'S MILITIA BEINC
ASSEMBLED FOR BORDER
President's Call For Troops Was Fol
lowed by Prompt Activity in Every
State in Which The Militia Had Not
Already Been Called Out to Meet
The Mexican Crisis
CARRANZA TELLS MEXICANS
TO RESTRAIN THEMSELVES
of Mexican bandit who Friday night
raided lexas ram-lit I and attacked a de
tachment of tin fiflth Infantry eaBt of
San Benito the lourth American puni
tive expedition to enter Mexico was with
drawn yesterday. There were no Amer
ican casualties.
Promises were given bv the Carranza
commander at Ma ta moras that he would
run down and punish the outlaws.
Two bandits were- killed and two
wounded in an action wth a detachment
of about 18 Mexicans when the Amer
icans began to withdraw.
The withdrawn expedition camped last
VERMONT
SOLDIERS
GATHER
from Namiquipa, Texas, to Columbus,
X. M.
Telegrams calling for the militia were
sent last night to the governors of all
states except the three whose guardsmen night at San Pedro, Tex., about 12 miles
already have been mustered in. after an -st of. Brownsville, waiting develop-
all day conference at the war department nients, after having, according to Gen.
attended by Secretary Baker, Major Gen- James Parker's official report, "cleaned
eral Scott, chief of staff. Maior General "t a net of bandits on ranches opposite
Bliss, chief of the mobile army, and Brig- the San Pedro-Ranehito district." These Orrfpr Tmnsmitrprl hr Ppcri
Hi (Jnn.r.1 Mill. cM.f nfth. ,i1il. ranches included the Tahnachal ranch. WXUCX 1 dUMIULUJU Uy XVCgl
division general staff. Brigadier General "bout 10 miles west of Ma ta mora s, which
McCombs, president of the Army War 18 notorious as a bandit haven
college, also was consulted
Declares He Is Trying to Bring About
Amicable Settlement of Difficulties
With United States But He Will Lead
the Troops in Person if His Peace
ful Efforts Fail .
By the new orders there will be placed SAY STATE OF WAR
as uenerai funstons disposal two ma
jor generals and 21 brigadier generals of
militia, with their complete infantry
commands. The entire infantry divis
ions from New York and Pennsylvania
are called out, as are fifteen full, brigades
from other states. In all 88 regiments of
infantry, with thirteen separate bat
talions and many separate companies are
affected, gjving a total of 1,1 -IS com pa
nies, each of which must have a mini
mum strength of e. men when mus
tered into the federal service. The to
ALREADY EXISTS
Mexican Government in Yucatan Has Or
dered All Americans Out, Accord
ing to Returning People.
Galveston, Tex., June 10. The Mex
ican government in Yucatan has issued a
proclamation ordering all Americans or1 AH V PYIT? QPPVTPT1
from Mexico and declaring a state of K,AU1 UK VIUU
ment Officers to Company
Commanders, and the Call
to Duty Was at Once Giv
en to the Enlisted Men in
the Several Cities and
Towns
TO THE SENIORS
OF GODDARD
Rev. Dr. Vincent Eaton Tom-
son of Worcester, Mas
Brought a Message
war pxistinir between the twn ennniriea I
. - 1 3 r . ... t I " ' I
uii eniisieo. rorce oi inraiiiry inereiore according to passengers arriving here to-
IN A SHORT TIME
would be not less than 8.',000 men
Leas than 500 companies scattered
throughout the country, will not be tnus
tercd and the National Guard coast
artillery companies have not been sum
moned.
Official reports that recent raids along
the border had created alarm among
American residents in Mexico City and
elsewhere beyond the border were reflect
day on the Norwegian Steamer Nils from
Progresso.
FtJNSTON PICKS MILITIA.
Washington, D. C, June 19. Not since the Spanish war has
the nation seen such military activity as to-day. More than 100,
1)00 national guardsmen in 45 states were under orders to mobilize
for Mexican service, constituting virtually the entire militia
strength of the United States. Only drilling and recruiting will be
5n order for the present, but later the militia organizations will be
Fent to the border for patrol duty, releasing about 30,000 regulars
for service in Mexico if war actually develops. President Wilson
last night issued the order calling out the militia.
Additional warships are also getting ready to-day to hurry south
end stand by Mexican ports to protect Americans.
No offensive attack on Mexico is contemplated. The president ,
only wants stronger forces to defend the border and to be prepared
if Carranza troops carry out their threats to strike at the Ameri
can forces chasing bandits south of the border.
Communications from the Mexican embassy, announcing that
there had been a clash between the crew of the gunboat Annapolis
and Carranza soldiers at Mazatlan yesterday and asking that dur
ing the present tense situation no men be landed in Mexico from
American warships under any circumstances, was delivered to the
state department to-day. .
Secretary of State Lansing announced that the reply to Carranza
would go forward to Mexico City during the day, and he declared
that the American policy in Mexico remains unchanged regarding
the general Mexican situation. Lansing allowed it to become
known that despatches to the state department showed increasing
excitement and irritation in many sections below the border.
Chairmen Chamberlin and Hay of the Senate and HOuse com
mittees on military affairs were summoned to the White House
early to-day. "I have felt all along we would be forced to inter
vene," said Senator Chamberlin ; "the Mexican people are so largely
ignorant they have the notion they can whip us, and it will be nec
essary for us to go in and clean up the situation."
A resolution making immediately effective the militia draft pro
Vision in the new army organization bill, under which the guards
men consenting to take the federal oath would be available xor
Services anywhere immediately, has been prepared by war depart
ment officials and Chairman Hay of the House military committee
and may be presented to Congress to-day.
Wants New York, Pennsylvania and Illi
nois Organisations First.
San Antonio, Tex., June 19. It was in
dicated to-day that Gen. Funston would
ed to-dav m a message received at the request the war department to send him
Mexican embassy from Gen. Carranza. first the militia from New York, Penn-
It stated that excitement prevailed at the sylvania and Illinois, as he believed he
Mexican camp over the ominous signs can make practical use immediately of
along the border and asked Lliseo Arte- tnese organizations.
dondo, ambassador designate, to tell the
first chief what he had learned of the in
tentions of the Washington government
toward Mexico. In his reply Mr. Arre
dondo included a copy of .Secretary Bak
er's statement, announcing the call for
tlie militia.
The Washington government has
watched with growing alarm the spread
of disorders throughout. Mevicn and the
evidence that. Cnrrnn7a'a mntrnl ov iis Peters.
army and his neonle w uinino from Mr. Daniels described the movement of
day 'to day. Up to the time Gen. Trevino llifs 88 'precautionary."
served notice on G
that any movement
toward the border
hostile act. there was no clear indication Pa.t.,'h hem t0 ln,n other ved t ports
as to Carranza' own aHM.ina Hi. !. "" " now watenmg.
tentions still Sre somewhat in doubt, al- Rpr Admiral Benson, chief aid for op
though the fact that he in said to have r,tmn lnP navy a'partnient, was
aueo mio conference witn .secretary
Adjutant-General Tillotson
Says the Men Are. in a
Fair State of Proficiency
Fire Alarms Were Rung
in Many Places to Call
Out the Men
WARSHIPS UNDER ORDERS.
Secretary Daniels Sends Them to Both
Coasts.
Washington, D. C, .Tune 19. Secretary
Daniels last night ordered several addi
tional gunboats and other small craft on
both the east and west coasts to Mexican
He directed
Gen. Pershing last week Rar Atlm'r8' Winslnw, commander of
ent of his troops except th west COB!,t division, to make a selec
r would be treated as a llon of pvpra, available vessels and dis-
mi'nation to keep the expedition when P,8;n,,d- however,
it is. It is also evident, however, iat lf f"t'lre dpveloP11
GEN. CARRANZA INCLINED
TO BE LESS BELLIGERENT
Mexico City, June 19. Carranza, addressing a mass meeting in
front of his residence last night, urged the citizens to refrain from
hostile acts against Americans and declared he had hopes of peace
fully arranging the difficulties between Mexico and the United
States.
"This is not the time for hasty action," he said. "I am trying to
arrange the difficulties with the United States pacifically, and I
want you to help me. Go to your homes and be good Mexicans,
remembering also that I will do my utmost to preserve the dignity
of the Mexican nation. If forced to resort to arms, I will lead you
in person."
The crowd, which was composed of several thousand, cheered
1he remarks of the first chief. Early in the evening, a big demon-
Ftration had been made in front of the national palace, and after
wards the demonstrators had paraded through the principal streets
of the. city.
nersonallv directed Trevlno'a action
leaves little ground for speculation on Panipls ,H,t niht ta tWt thf hiP8 to
that score. The m.e.tlon rm.;r,i be sent trom the east coast. They prob
be settled is whether Gen. Carranza will ally wi" l dispatched to Vera Cruz and
go to the limit of ordering an attack ..i.
unon Gen. Persh ikt'h tronn. Thr. i. I anumonai snip movements
no indication that President Wilson has re "Wtemplated at the present time,
any intention of wakening In hla deter- , . ? V lmnw,H uw-la'n- w" -
win i more mv oe sent.
nients indicate they are
the administration has no present pur
pose of ordering renewed activities after
bandits by the column, except in the lim
ited zone in which it has been operating
with signal success for some weeks. Gen
Pershing's recent reports have indicated
that he has succeeded in clearing out all
organized bands of outlaws in the vicin
itv of his camps.
Some officials here have been inclined
to look upon the Carranza note and many
of his other more or less hostile actions
a attempts to placate the radical unfi.
American elements in Mexico without
actually bringing on hostilities with the
Lnited States. They declare the Mexican
government has gone to the limit each
time, but always fallen just short of the
word or act that would have made a
clash certain. These officials believe Car
ranza is playing a game of bluff, and that
much as he might hate Villa, the direct
cause of the present situation, he dared
not. attempt to capture the bandit and
turn him over to the. United States for
punishment because he feared to make k.
national hero and martyr of his former
ally against Huerta.
To defray the expenses of mobilizing
the XatiotiaT Guard and maintaining it
n the federal service, emergency appro
priations will be needed immediately.
ongress granted the war department
iberal emergency funds because of the
border situation some time ago. These
are virtually gone now and Sec. Baker
probably will submit a largely increased
stunate within a few days.
Villa Again Reported.
It was learned in diplomatic circles
last night that foreign agents in Mexico
believe ilia to have been stricken with
paralysis as a result of wounds received
uring or after the Columbus raid. He is
said to be in hidine in the hills and the
intimation is that Carranza officials eould
ut. their hands on him in a few davs if
hey so desired.
GENERAL BELL AT EL PASO, TEXAS.
EXPRESSES CONFIDENCE
El Faso, Texas, June 19. Developments in the Mexican situa
tion caused excitement to-day paralleling that following the cross
ing of the frontier by the first American expeditionary command
at Columbus over three months ago. The authorities admit that
preparations were made for any eventualities, but anticipate no
trouble in the immediate vicinity.
General Bell, commanding 3,500 troops here, seemed to be confi
dent that he could cope with any emergency. It was rumored, how
ever, that big bodies of Carranza men are in the vicinity and that
General Trevino, the Carranza commander in the north, is arming
all male citizens over 18 years old.
Washington,
Vessels stationed on the east coast of
Mexico now are: The battleship Xebras-
ka. at Vera Cruz; the gunboat Machias
and Marietta, at Tampico, and the gun
boat W heeling, at F.l Carmen.
On the wet coast are the protected
cruiser Cleveland, at Guaymasj the sup
ply ship Glacier, cruising between ports;
the gimboat Yorktown, at Topolobampo;
the protected cruiser Albany, at Man
zanillo; the gunboat Annapolis and the
transport BulTal. at Mazatlan. The
cruiser Raleigh is stationed at Corinto.
Nicaragua.
In former Mexican crises I'nited States
gunbnats, Wause of their shallow draft,
have been able to enter small rivers along
trie coast and rescue American refugees
GERMAN INFANTRY
WAS DRIVEN BACK
NEAR HILL 321
German Artillery is Continuing a Bom
bardment of French Positions
On Dead Man's Hill.
Paris, June 10. A German infantry
attack on French positions north of Hill
321 was repulsed by French batteries
yesterday, according to the official state
ment to day. The Germans are contin
uing a bombardment of Dead Man's Hill
n the Chattancourt region.
Immediately on receiving the presi
dent's order to mobilize for Mexican bor
der duty, the Vermont National Guard
began the preparations, the officers of
the First regiment being busy through
the early morning hours in passing the
word along to the cities and towns whiyre
companies are stationed. Adjutant Gen
eral Lee S. Tillotson of St. Albans an
nounced that the mobilization would take
place at the ttate camp ground near
Fort Ethan Allen and that the men
would assemble at their armories and
await the word to proceed to the state
headquarters.
I he peace strength of the ermont Na
tional Guard is 800 infantry and 175 cav
alry, the latter being the Norwich uni
versity cadets. Adjutant General Tillot
son says that the regiment is in a fair
state of proficiency and can leave for the
border in a short time. T
Adjutant General Tillotson transmit
ted the order front the president to the
commanding officer. Col. Ira L. Reeves
of Northfield, and the latter notified each
company commander to hold his com
pany in readiness at the home station.
Tire order found Col. Reeves in the
midH of commencement exercises at
Norwich university, of which lie is pres
ident. His inauguration as president is
scheduled to occur Wednesday afternoon.
1 he infantry regiment is composed of
twelve companies located, at Rutland,
Newport, St. Albans, Burlington, St.
Johnsburv, Bellows Falls, Wimioski, Uni
versity of Vermont, Burlington, North
field. Montpelier, Brattleboro and Spring
field.
5:45 and a few moments afterward the
.Montpelier call sounded.
Among the H company guardsmen who
are liable to service are: Ralph Lawless,
Archie McDonald, Leslie, oung, A. Saw
yer, Alfred F.dwards, .lohn Mi-Donald
and Guv George. A. McDonald, who is
employed in a New Haven, Conn., muni
tions plant, was advised by telegram this
morning to report.
William R. Dewey, a brakeman, and
4 1 ' c 1 i ' n i 4 1.
r. rjwi inning, a iirfiiinii, uowi -iu-i ....
ployed in the Central Vermont freight JinSOIl 01 Worcester, MaSS.,
vara, were notinca to report ai me
armory in St. Albans, as thev are enlist
ed in U company. Joseph Williams of
this city is a private in K company at
!pnnglield and planned to report at once.
Louis Roux, a private in the 87th coast TM OPFNTNn 47TTT
artillerv at. Fnrt Tnt-ii V V who is til 11
spending a furlough at his home near COMMENCEMENT
nernn pona, expected to be called in at
once. .
Lieut. H. B. P. Boodv of Norwich was
in town at an early hour notifying Barre -pi . -.v' tt ij ,i
men connected with the Norwich reserves -rjAerClSeS V , Held 111 the
to be ready. He met. Adit. C. N. Barber
here in the eitv and the two returned to
Northfield by autpmobile. Both officers
declared that recruits might be received
at Northfield, aa several companies about
the state are not up to the maximum in
numbers.
Recruiting signs were distributed about
town to-day, giving directions as to
where applicants may be received by re
cruiting officers.
Univf j?-ASt Church
'.sterday
CO. H UNDER ARMS.
. Goddard's 1916 graduating class went
to church yesterday. Exercises that
marked the opening of the seminary's
47th annual commencement were held at
the Universalist church in the forenoon
at 10:30 o'clock. "Rev. Dr. Vincent Eaton
Tomlinson of Worcester, Mass., delivered
the commencement sermon and appropri
ate music interludes were filled bv the
Montpelier Militia Company Is at Pres
ent Composed of 56 Men.
Responding to the call issued at 6
ociock tins morning, the can consisting gins giee ciud, jiiss Mildred Kent as
of the fire alarm being sounded eight soloist and tho church orcmnist Pmf.
times notifying them that their presence ,v A Wncaton xhere t a
was required at the armory, officers and r
members of Co. H, V. N. G., are waiting !arSe congregation, - including a number
at their headquarters for additional or- of people, relatives and friends of the
derg to be issued by Col. Ira L. Reeves graduates, who are in Barre for the va
relative to the president's call for the rious events that are to make un the
militia to mobilize. commencement week nrnnn l. th
The strength of Co. H a.t present is Ml school on the hill.
men, including the officers, and instruc- For the first time in days there were
tions were received by Capt. Coughlan sunny skies Sunday morning and even
this forenoon from Cftl. Reeves to recruit thouch a forenoon shower, which set in
enough to make the minimum strength I whil the services were under way,
of fi5. It is Capt. Coughlan's intention threatened for the moment to have its
eventually to recruit to the full strength, dampening effect on spirits, the weather
l."0. At 10 o'clock this forenoon seven continued measureablv pleasant and the
had applied to the captain for enlistment first event of the June closing may be
papers. Perley Wells enjoys the distine- described as a worthy precursor of the
tion of being the first to respond to the exercises that are to follow through the
call this morning, beating Henry Galaise w-eek. The church was attractively dec
oy fast sprinting. orated with ferns and over the rostrum
the senior class motto. "Facta Vnn
READY TO GO TO CAMP. Verba," was framed. Members of the
senior and junior classes acted as ushers '
THE CALL TO ARMS
HEARD L BARRE
AT EARLY HOUR
Companies M, C and G Are Getting Many and toward the front of the nave, several
Enlistments. . tiers of seats were reserved for the grad
uates and the faculty board.
Dr. Tomlinson's address was of th
kind that lingers long in the memory.
It was in conformance to a long estab
lished custom on commencement Sunday
that he addressed, in closing his sermon,
a few words of parting advice to the 1H1S
class, whose members stood while the
clergyman spoke. The sermon was a
storehouse of epigrams and significant
quotations from the prose and poesy of
these and other days. The Worcester
clergyman, like Dean Lee S. MeCollester
of the Crane Theological school, who ad
dressed the graduating class at -Goddard
in 101.5, is a graduate of Tufts, where
Prof. O. K. Hollister of the seminary and
Rev. J. B. Reardon of the L'niversalist
church also matriculated. Something of
the pleasure which Dr. Tomlinson experi
enced in speaking tothe seminary students
was reflected in his opening remarks and
in the brief . introduction by Rev. Mr.
Reardon as each referred reminiscently
to old days at the Medford institution.
While the seniors and members of the
faculty were marching into the church,
Vermont National 1 " neattfn played the, organ volun
bv Gov. Gates at I a r the march from the Huguenots
10:45 last night at the St. Johnsburv. (Meyerbeer) and the service opened with
house. The message was a 500-word note ,ne ''". "pjoiee 1 e with Jerusalem-'
calling out the state militia for service '' Pmne.v'- -xnt ln niRn.v Goddard grad
on the Mexican border and thp numW nation weeks lias tne music been such a
Burlington. June J a Companies M of
hurlington. C ot the t niversity of Ver
mont and (I of Winooski.of the Vermont
National Guard, were recruited nearlv to
the titrength of 6.) men at noon to-day.
The enrollments were coming in well.
The companies are ready to proceed to
tlie state camp at the military post.
Burlington, June 19. Company C,
ermont National Guard, composed of
t.. students of the Lniversity of Ver
mont, has erected tents and gone into
camp on the liack campus awaiting or
ders to proceed t Fort Ethan Allen.
The officers of the company are: Cap
tain Lootey of Rutland; first lieutenant,
C. D. Hayden of I'nderhill; second lieu
tenant, R. P. Burrage of Leominster,
Mass.
GOV. GATES GOT MESSAGE.
Was at St. Johnsbury When He Got the
President's Order.
St. Johnsbury, June IB. An order!
from Secretary of War Baker for the
mobilization of the
Guard was received bv Gov. Gates at
available for immediate service. An an-
fine feature as yesterday. The chorus
Six Blasts, Twice Repeated, on the Fire
Alarm Notified National Guardsmen,
Goddard Battalion and Others That
They Were Wanted for Service.
NEW ENGLAND MEN
RUSH TO STANDARDS
P. C, June. 1S. Mobili
sation of the Natkns1 Guardsmen to
Hipport General Funtn's line will pave
the way fr re!-asing some 30.0n reg
ulars for immediate service in Mexico
in the event of open hostilities with the
(arrmnza government. The guardsmen
tiimlve cr.uld tt' t he used beyond the
line without authority of Congress and
tiritil tfcy hid volunteered f-T that duty.
t!r are iieI out under the old
jniiitia U. The B" law, which ould
fc.sk e Cieja avsJal.-ie for any duty us- j
government, goes into
Great Activity Was Shown in Ererv
State and Recruiting Was Promptly
Started in All of Them.
Boston, June 19. New England Na-
ional Guardsmen were flocking to their
rmories to-day in response to the presi
dent's call for troops. Great activity
w shown in everv state.
All the Massachusetts companies as-
mlded at their srmorien, where their
equipment was inspected, the men ex
amined and recruiting to full strength
a begun preparatory to concentrating
st Framingham to-morrow.
The New Hampshire. National Guard
as being recruited to minimum strength
at some of the stations to-day with the
expectation that the entire fori would
be in camp at Concord to-morrow after
noon. !
A Urge number of Vermont Guardsmen
were at their armories at 6 a. m. and it in
expvted that they will proceed to Fort
n Allen to-morrow. Actmtv was
ihon in recruitina amone the Maine
CZERNOWITZ FALLS
BEFORE RUSSIANS
Invaders Captured the Remnants of Aus
trian Defenders, Numbering 1000
Men The Others Having
Fled Westward.
lxmdon, June 19. Czernowitz, capital
of the Austrian Crown la ml of Buko
wina, is in the hands of the Russians.
and the Austrians who had held it are
in retreat toward the Carpathian moun
tain'. Hard fighting took place in the
capture of the Czernowitz bridgehead and
in the passage of the river I'rnth. but j
when finally the Russians gained the
right bank of the river the Austrians
evacuated the capital, leaving l.ooi) iris
oners and some guns in the hands of the
rlussinns.
BULGARIAN TROOPS MOVE.
Have Began March from Fiorina and
Monastir.
Pri. June 19 The Ham correspond
ent at Sslnniki teleprsphs that news has
just been received there that Rulgsrian
troop in the region of Fiorina and Mon
astir have !egiin an advance.
der the federal
effect Julv 1.
The entire mobile regular rn- in ik. '
I'nited Slate, several provisional regi-i:''
mentji of regular eoaal artillerv .-. .
as infantry and the National Guard of con,PmV th' regiment will
Texas. New Mexico and Ariuona, now are
on the border, or in Mexico. Definite
DEMANDS APOLOGY
FROM AUSTRIA
figure have never been made puhlic, but
it is understood General Funston has
shout 40,om regulars and probably 5.ii
or more guardsmen, of whom 1".' reg
lilam are itJi lneral Tershing or at
teed along b.s Lne of commum. ath-ni
mobilize at once at Augusta.
ONE EXPEDITION RETURNS
Having Accomplished Object ef Dispers
ing Rebels.
Brownst-ill. Tes June P. Having
Second Note fram United States Govern
ment Also Demands Reparation
for Lives Lost ia Tank "
Steamer Petrolite.
National Guardsmen in Barre affiliated
with H company at the capital, the God
dard seminary wing of the Norwich bat
talion, and others in Barre and vicinitv
who are subject to an immediate call to
the colors heard the tocsin this morning
at fi:45 ociock when a succession of six
long blasts from the fire alarm was giv
en three times. The militiamen knew
what the alarm meant, even though a
good many other people, including call
firemen who were startled from their
peep-o'-dawn sleep, mistook the' call for a
tire alarm.
Perhaps the most significant indica
tion that there is serious' business to be
done along the Mexican border came
when 25 young men at Goddard sem
insrv, several of them slated for diplo
mas this week, were ordered to report at
luttalion headquarters in Northfield.
Some 12 or 15 voung men connected with
the Montpelier company made haste to
report at the capital and ("apt. C. Newell
Barber, who is an adjutant on the gen
eral staff, hastened back to Northfield.
after parsing the week-end in the city.
There are also scattering members of
other military organizations in and about
Barre who are to report at once.
Goddard's column left the seminary
hill at 8 o'clock this morning, each man
in uniform, and marched to the Central
Vermont station, there to entrain for
Northfield. Sergt. Shepsrd and Corp.
K. Tillotson were in command and the
following students made up the remain
der of the contingent: RoV, Swingyer,
Mcintosh. Welch. Guernsey. Tillotson.
Newton. Chapman. Wallace. ' Wark. Me
Nabb. Phelps. Rillodeau. Knuton. Kecfe.
Barber. Bancroft. Haskett nnd Wilson.
Prin. Hollister stated that a number of
battalion members were ordered to re
main at the school because they do not
come within Hie age limit impoei bv
the service regulations. The seminary
students, having formed their battalion
last winter. he been under the tutelage
of Norih off.i-ers for several months.
swer was sent bv State Secretary of Civil worK ' tue ",rl "mgers was a revelation
and Mili'tary Affairs Benjamin Gates at to the 1"PTPKa, ion ani1 jt is to be hoped
11:45 to the effect that the order had
oeen received and that the governor
would proceed accordingly, the answer
w-as received and recognized by Lnited
States Secretary of War Baker.
In an interview early in the evening
Gov. Gates acknowledged tlie receipt of
a wire from Secretary of State Bailey as
to the seriousness of the situation with
Mexico and said: "Taking the report as
given bv General runston to the war
department, makes me think the matter
has reached a crisis and probably some
very severe, righting may be expected.
1 have been expecting it to come tor
several weeks and the dillv-dallving of
mar ine giee ciud nuiv De Heard again
before the doings of the week are con
cluded. The invocation followed the first
musical number and then the responsive
reading, with Rev. Mr. Reardon leading.
The glee club was beard again in
"Hark. Hark, Mv Soul" (Shelley) and
afterward Dr. Tomlinson read the scrip
ture lesson. To his prayer the glee club
sang the response by Beethoven and just
before the sermon Miss Mildred Kent
sang "Like as the Hart" (Allitsen). Prof.
Whcaton playing the organ accompani
ment.
The Address.
Dr. Tomlinson .-was introduced to tlje
the adminixtrntion has been productive congregation by Rev. Mr. Reardon. who
of just the Fund of breaks that we have
had.
"The feeling of hatred experienced in
Mexico during the last few months has
lieen productive, especially since the raid
bv Villa's bandits on Columbus and the
fact that the army officers in Mexico
find Carranza men among the bandits is
very significant."
When asked concerning the condition
of the Vermont state militia the gov
ernor said that after a conference the
other dav with State Adjutant General
-ee S. Tillotson of St. Albans he found
he militia to lie in the best of condition
nd highly effective.
When asked how quickly Vermont's
roopa could be mobilied. the governor
said as quickly as any state in the union
nd mucker than mot, which is due part-
to the size of the ntste, and also to
the fact that the companies are not
scattered any great distances and the
transportation facilities are excellent.
CLASS OF 45 CANDIDATES.
Received Knights of Columbus Third De
gree in Montpelier.
Several hundred Knights of Columbus
from St. Albans. Burlington. Rutland
and the smaller cities and towns gath
ered in Montpelier yesterday afternoon
to participate in the working of the third
degree on a class of 45 candidate. The
degree work conducted by Hon.
ieorge II. Boivin of Quebec. P. y.. and j
there were a number of state onVei
prc-ent. The local council and viit r.gi
None of them showed the least hesitancv
j in responding to the call this morning.
The d.spat.-h received by The Times
;lst night stating that the president hd
Washington. P. C. June .Xh .ly.i out the state mil-tia units rut the
end note to Austro-Hnngary stating the'men at the fire station in an expei tant ! Pa i'ton hotel.
Austrian submarine attask n the Amey- mood and no one was snrnrise i when ;'it of town who spke were linn. eorce
soke of his own intimate acquaintance
with the preacher in former times. Dr.
Tomlinson prefaced his sermon with re
marks concerning his visit to Vermont,
of hi-s sojourn at Middlchury college and
then in Burlington while en route to
Barre. His text whs taken from the first
chapter of St. John's gospel, the 2Sth
verse, which reads. "Rabbi, where dwell
est thou ?"
The preacher drew an analogy between
the dwelling that is material and the
dwelling that is in one's thoughts. Life's
great highway is not a question of com
munities, street and street numbers, he
aid. but rather a question of where one
is not nt home in his thoughts. After
all we are not so much concerned with
the tangible aspects of our environment,
he went on. as we are with the realm of
thought wherein character is moulded.
Destiny is shaped by the place we make
for ourselves in that realm. We are rich
or poor, according to our spirit. The
man w ith a million dollars is a pauper if
there i penury in his thoughts. Tlie dar
may W cloudy or sunny, according to
our deposition. In these present days,
the preacher said, this last axiom i espe
cially applicable. 'hitsidc conditions
have no learing on out actions if we
, hooe the right locale in the re3lm of
thought.
There is a world of broad thought and
one where thoughts are narrow. Which
d. you choose? So.tie men are as much
at home in the solar s'tem as others
are in their own hack vsrds. It is true,
the speaker continued, that w-e are gifted
in tasving degree with the faeultr for
at 4 appreciating thoe thirgs t'-at are en-
knights gathered in the club roon
oVl.i k and mtciieJ to St. August ine's i n, V nin:. H- re he minted from a well
church for the lienedutK n an i in the 'Vnow n poem to ii i;rnte that much mar
evening a banquet was enjoved at the, be hd for the i-k:rg in Cod's great uni-
Among t!ne fro;niere een thorgh sorrow and doc.bt be
set on on eterv .de.
i.an tank steamer Petrohte which was ''apt. Fdward Coughlan of Co. H caHeljH- I'-oi'in
sccomphrlied it t-bjeit the disperurg ttas.k and rfpanticn for damaga.
M. 1ticoH. tste Vpii'y.
-r.dM at the state department to.,Uv for A-ting Chief Carpenter by tclei.hope thisfof St Alhens; Past State Ivputy Charles
immediately trarm ion to Vienna. iinvnnir.g st o'rl.k and asked him tojF. Mann -f Prattubr.ro; state Ai .ate
undfr.fvvl ti oVman I ai ard.gv f r the snunl the mobilization call. Chief Car-'H. W. Mubwhey of Hardwi.'; P. J. Jic-
Man s J.app'ne ot esrth is d-ferr;n'-d
Urrly hv tl. hsp:tal.tv sr.tH whi-h hm
e.eri, t e t'TvugVts that eni!h lsf.
j-ertT rarg the call from the station at AuLr?e of Burlington,
t
'i-t r.-J'l cn s-eevTid pe )
