VOL. LVIII. NO. 306
POPULATION 28,219
NORWICH, CONN., THURSDAY, DECEMBER 21, 1916
12 PAGES 96 COLUMNS
PRICE TWO CENTS
The Bulletin's Circulation in Norwich is Double That of Any Other Paper, and Its Total Circulation is the Largest in Connecticut in Proportion to the City's Population.
PRESffiENT WILSON APPEALS
TO BELLIGERENT NATIONS
TO DISCUSS PEACE TERMS
Has Sent Formal Notes to the Governments of All
the Warring Nations
NO OFFER OF MEDIATION,
Requests Respective Governments to Give Their Views as to
Terms Upon Which the War Might be Concluded
President Himself Declares His Object is to Secure
Soundings in Order to Hasten Peace Opinion Prevails
in Washington That the Note is the Result of Some Se
cret Information in Possession of the President Von
Bernstorff Confident That the Note Will Lead to a Peace
Conference.
Washington, Deo. 20. President
Wilson has appealed to all the bel
ligerents to discuss terms of peace.
8snds Formal Note.
Without actually proposing peace or
offering mediation, the president has
sent formal notes to the governments
of all tli warring nations suggesting
that an early occasion be sought to
call out from the nations now at war
such an avowal of their respective
views as to the terms upon which the
war might be concluded and the ar
rangements which would be deemed
satisfactory as a guaranty against its
renewal or the kindling of any similar
conflict In ths future as would make
It pooslible frankly to compare them."
Wholly without notice and entirely
contrary to what administration offi
cials have described as his course, the
president last nigbt dispatched the
notes to all the belligerents and to all
the neutrals for their information.
Summarized In the- president's own
w ords as -contained in the notes,- his
attitude is as follows:
All Mankind Longs for Peace.
"The president is not proposing
peace; he Is not even offering media
tion. He Is merely proposing that
soundings be taken in order that we
may learn, the neutral nations with
ths belligerents, how near the haven
pf peace may be for which all man
kind longs with an intense and in
creasing, longing. He believes that the
spirit in which he speaks and the ob
ecta which be seeks will be under
stood by all concerned and he confi
dently hopes for a response which will
bring new light into the affairs of
be world."
This latest development in the rap
idly . moving world events toward a
tlscussion of peace was not permitted
to become known until tonight when
the notes were well on their way to
ths American ambassadors in the bel
ligerent capitals and probably already
in the bands of some of them.
Offioial Washington Surprised.
It was a most distinct surprise to
all official Washington which had been
led to believe that with the formal
transmittal of the (proposals of the
central powers the officers of the Unit
ed States would await further moves
between the belligerents themselves,
and that certainly in view of the
speech of Premier Lloyd George and
the announcements In Russia, France
and Italy, further action by neutrals
would depend on the next careful and
Aelloate moves of the belligerents.
The whole tenor of official opinion
throughout Washington when the
president's action became known was
that it immeasurably improved the
prospects for some sort of exchanges
looking toward an approach to peace
Discussions between the belligerents,
Without impairing the position of the
United States should they finally be
Unable to find a ground on which to
ipproach one another.
No White House Statement.
At the White House no statement
Whatever could be obtained as to
whether any of the powers even had
Intimated how they would receive the
Dots and there was every indication
that the same careful secrecy which
prevented anything whatever becom
ing known about the president's ac
tion until it had been taken would
urround any of the succeeding moves.
Nowhere on the surface fippeirs any
Indication of the history-making
vents which diplomatists generally
Ihe convinced must have transpored.
ince the German allies brought forth
fheir proposals, to dispel the general
iy prevalent belief that such an action
n the part of President Wilson would
Se unacceptable to the entente pow-
rs.
British embassy officials declared
hey were utterly taken by surprise,
torero wholly unable to explain it and
ivere emphatic in their statement that
no exchanges whatever had ' passed
through the embassy here as a pre
liminary. Ths wish and hope of the German
powers that President Wilson would
nterccds In some way has long been
well known and has been conveyed in
different ways to the White House.
The attitude of the entente allies as
expressed by their statesmen and cer
tainly until recently in official advices
to the American government, has been
that a peace offer by the United States
Mrould be considered almost the next
thing to unfriendly.
All that, however, was before the
Serman allies of their own accord
brought forward their proposals for
discussion of peace. President Wilson
specifically says in the notes he is
somewhat embarrassed In making the
suggestion at this particular time,
"because tt may now seem to have
been prompted by a desire to p'ay a
part In connection witn tne recent
overtures of ths central powers.'
8ome Hidden Knowledge.
XtfplomatUt --consider it incredible
Ht president would bring forward
MERELY A SUGGESTION
such a propocal at such a time unless
he had reason to believe it would re
ceive respectful consideration at the
hands of all the belligerents, and,
above all, would not prejudice the po
sition of the United States as a pos
sible mediator.
Bernstorff Sure of Conference.
Tim Gei-mnn ci m In uaj xt vlow wnc!i!-
ently hopeful that proposals of the
central allies would lead to a discus
sion of peace, was expressed in this
authorized statement by Count Bern
storff, the German ambassador:
jnow," he said, "I am perfectly con
vinced that there will be a confer
ence."
Nearest Parallel in 1905.
The nearest narnllel in
tory for President Wilson's action was
President R(wsvpJt' move, iw 1 qii. ,n
end the war between . Russia . ani
Japan. But in that case tho 'nnuiri'n'ni
had been assured -his proposal woul-t
not oe aisagreeable to eUber of the
belligerents, and, euriouf?V enougn, it
wan through Emmmr W''iio r.p , -, . -
many that the preliminary soundings
uijniiimzeu into tne suggestion that
President Roosevelt take the steps.
Before that time President Roosevelt
had conferred with Count Cassini, tho
xiussuin amoassaaor here, and w'.th
Mr. Takahira, the Japanese amoissa
dor. In the Russian capital the Amer
ican ambassador, George Von L. Mayc
had conversations with Count Lama
dorflf, the Russian minister for foreign
affairs.
In Tokio Amprira n Tiniatov ni r,
had conversations with Count Koniura,
tne Japanese minister for foreign afj
fairs.. The putconr- of all these pre
liminaries was that President Roose
velt was assured that he would not b?
humiliated by a rejection of his ac
tion. Those in nfflolnl fi-nlc, -n-u i
discuss the notes thought it worthy
of attention that President Wilson,
after saying his action had long been
"The president can only beg that
his suggestion be considered entirely
on its own merits and as if t had
been made in other circumstances "
The Dresident looks ffynravA
notes to the part the neutrals shall
iaKe in assuring the ruture peace of
the world. He expresses justiflcxticn
in "sugerestinff- an fmmAriiat.
tunity for a comparison of views a.; to
me lenns wnicn must precede thoso
ultimate arrangements for the peace
of the world, which all ries
which the neutral nations as' well as
i nose at war are ready to play their
full responsible part."
Germany Believed to Be Willing.
So far as Germany is concerned the
view held here is that she would 1-e
perfectly willing that a committee of
three, formed of tAnA,n4-ni.. -
the central powers, a representati ro of
;L tt .I1 na a representati of
the United States, should hold pre
liminary discussions. The main idea
of Germany and her allies is to get
each - set of belligerents into direct
personal communication with tho
other. The method is considered, of
secondary importance.
The view prevails in German quar
ters that all the belligerents will make
some definite statement in reply to the
United States. The very phrase .logy
of the American communication, it is
felt, calls for replies far more definite
than mere acknowledgments of re
ceipt.
Count Von Bernstorff may dWcuss
the situation with Secretary Lansing
tomorrow.
Notes to the Belligerents.
The notes to the belligerents are pre
faced with this instruction by Secre
tary Lansing to the American ambas
sadors presenting them:
"The president directs me to send
you the following communication to
be presented immediately to the min
ister of foreign affairs of the govern
ment to which you are accredited."
The texts of the notes themselves
then begin identically as follows-
"The President of the United States
has instructed me to suggest to the
(here Is inserted a designation of the
government address) a course of ac
tion with regard to the present war
which he hopes that the government
will take under consideration as sug
gested in the most friendly spirit and
as coming not only from a friend but
also as coming from the representa
tive -of a neutral nation whose inter
ests have been most serious affected
by the war and whose concern for its
early conclusion arises out of a mani
fest necessity to determine how best
to safeguard those interests If the war
Is to continue."
At this point the texts vary. In the
notes to the central (powers this para
graph follows next:
To the Central Powers.
"The suggestion which I am in
structed to make the president has
(Continued on Page Ten)
Cabled Paragraphs
Japanese Steamer Sunk.
Paris, Dec. 20, 12.30 p. m. The Ja
panese steamer Taki Mam has been
sunk by a submarine. Twenty-three
out of her crew of 45 have been nick
ed up.
DETAILS OF SINKING OF
BRITISH TRANSPORT RUSSIAN
Was Struck Astern No Submarine
Seen 28 Lives Were Lost.
Washington. Dec. 20. A detailed ac
count of the sinking of the British
horse ship Russian, In which 17
American muleteers lost their lives.
reached the state department today by
caDie irom consul K.eplmger at Malta.
It says the steamer, . fighting through
a strong gale and drenching rain in
tne .Mediterranean, was struck astern
by what was believed to have been a
torpedo, though no submarine was
seen, and that twenty-eight men in
cluding the Americans, were drowned
through the capsizing of a lifeboa't
when the crew left the ship. Later a
trawler came to the rescue and took
the Russia nin tow, but the steamer
went to the bottom the next day
The consul said he was informed
that the Russian was not under ad
miralty charter, although she had de
livered a cargo of mules at Saloniki, the
allied military base in Greece.
The American government will make
inquiries a,t once to determine definite
ly tne status ot the ship. If it develops
that she actually was a private vessel,
the German and Austrian governments
will be asked whether one of their sub
marines made the attack. Uness one of
the belligerents admits responsibility,
it- is regarded as probable that the na
ture of the explosion that wrecked the
Russian may remain a mystery, since
no one saw a submarine or torpedo
and the ship is at the bottom of the sea
with her evidence.
ENGINE OF EXPRESS LEFT
TRACKS NEAR BRID3EPORT
Traffic on Main Line Was Tied Up for
Some Time.
Bridgeport, Conn., Dee. 2-0. Auto
matic derailing apparatus at the ap
proach of the open drawbridge over
the Pequonnoc river caused the engine
of an extra westbound passenger ex
press train on the New York, New
Haven and Hartford railroad to jump
the rails near here late today. The
train was going slowly, preparatory
to making a station stop and none of
tne six coaches left the track. No one
was injured.
Closely following the train, on the
same track, was the fast Knicker
bocker Express, which was brought
to a stop in time to prevent a crash.
High officials of the New Haven
road, in discussing the accident, said
the engineer of the extra express had
his engine under complete control and
that there was no danger of a plunge
nto the river.
Traffic on the four main line tracks
was tied up for some time.
RAILWAY TROUBLE IN
IRELAND SETTLED
Men Have Been Granted an Increase
of Seven Shillings a Week.
London, Dec. 20. S.45 p. m. The
complaint of the railway men in Ire
land was amicably, settled at ' the
board of trade today. The men have
been granted an increase of seven
shillings weekly in their wages; they
had asked for ten shillings on the
ground of the increased cost of living.
A recent despatch credited James
H. Thomas, labor member of parlia
ment and assistant general secretary
of the Amalgamated Society of Rail
way Servants with the announcement
that the government had decided to
take over the Iri.'fi railroads and thus
avert a threatened strike.
MIDNIGHT MASS IN
CAMP AT SAN ANTONIO.
Christmas Eve F-t Time in This
Country Since Civil War.
San Antonio, Tex., Dec 20. Mid
night mass in a military camp will he
celebrated at Camp Wilson here
Christmas eve for the first time .n
this country since the Civil war, -.t is
said. Bishop Shaw granted the d: -pensation
for the service which, it is
expected, will be attended by seeral
thousand soldiers and citizens. T'tere
are more than 5,000 Roman Cathodes
at Fort Sam Houston and Camp Wil
son. 500 CASES OF WHISKEY
HAVE BEEN STOLEN
From Warehouse at Girard, Aia
Placed There After Seizure.
Girard, Ala., Dec. 20. Approximate
ly 500 cases of whiskey, seized by state
authorities in the prohibition raids
here last May and June, have been
stolen from a Girard warehouse since
Nov. 1, according to a statement cf
the county sheriff today. He declared
that the building had been with-it a
guard since that date.
Spitzmueller Failed to Form Cab-net.
Vienna, via Berlin, Dec. 20, 6.30 p.
m., to London, Dec. 21, 12.55 a. m
Alexander Spitzmueller has failed in
his efforts to construct a new cabinet
and the task has been turned ovsr to
Count Clam-Martiniz, former min'stcr
of agriculture, in whose cabinet Hcrr
Spitzmueller will have the linaii-ie
portfolio.
Boy Killed by a "Jitney."
New Haven, Conn., Dec. 20. An
thony Festa, 15 years old, died to.nght
In a hospital as the result of injuries
received when he was struck by a
"jitney" automobile driven by So -Ten
Bogigian. The latter was ordered held
by the coroner.
Comparative Quiet
on all War Fronts
RUSSIANS AND RUMANIANS HAVE
TAKEN A STAND
OPPOSING THE TEUTONS
On the Front in France' ths British
Near Commecourt and Arras Have
Carried Out Successful Raids Against
the German Trenches.
Aside from the Rumanian theatre of
war, little fighting of moment is tak
ing place on any of the numerous
fronts.
In the northern Dobrudja the Rus
sians and Rumanians have faced about
and are giving battle to the Teutonic
allied forces which have been pursuing
them. Just how strong the stand
they are making is has not yet been
made known, the German official com
munication announcing it merely say
ing that they have "again offered
fighting resistance." Petrograd reports
that attacks by the invaders near Par
lita, on the left bank of the Danube,
were repulsed and says also that op
erations successful for the Russians
and Rumanians are being carried out
by scouting parties in the direction of
Rimnika-Buzdu.
On the front in France, the British
near Gommecourt and Arras have car
ried out successful raids against Ger
man trenches and bombarded other
hostile positions at Gommecourt and
near Loos and Hulluch. The Germans,
for their part, shelled the British line
north of the Somme near Festubert
and Ypres and south of the Somme
bombarded the French at numerous
points, the French replying energeti
cally. Berlin reports the repulse of attacks
against the positions of the Teutonic
allies in the Cerna river bend region
of Macedonia.
In Galicia southwest of Brody the
Teutonic allies after a heavy, bom
bardment of Russian trenches essayed
an infantry attack, but were forced
by the fire of the Russian guns to
seek their own trenches again. Pe
trograd reports that the Russians
broke through barbed wire entangle
ments on the Bystritsa river sector
and compelled the Teutonic allies there
to flee.
The Austrians are again actively
bombarding the Italian advanced po
sitions on the Carso front of the Aus-tro-Italian
front.
WHY SHIPPING OF GREAT
BRITAIN IS TO BE NATIONALIZED
To Mobilize Under Orte Head -the" En
tire Ocean Carrying Facilities.
New York, Dec. 20. A desire of the
British government to mobilize under
one general head the entire ocean cargo-carrying
facilities of the United
Kingdom for the exclusive benefit of
the allied armies and the great civil
ian populations of the allied countries
! is the reason behind the statement of
Premier Lloyd George that the ship
ping of Great Britain will be "na
tionalized," according to leading Brit
ish shipping men here.
For some time, one of the represen
tative steamship men said today, all
British vessels have had about one
third of their cargo space comman
deered for grain. This space has re
cently been increased to such an ex
tent that now the New York agent has
only one-third of his ship available
to private shippers.
r The same authority expressed the
belief that under the proposed new
regulations even more space would be
controlled by the government by reg
ulations requiring that all cargo be
officially designated.
Designation of cargo will mean that
the shipping in British bottoms of any
commodity other than that necessary
for maintenance of army and civil life
will be forbidden.
OPPOSITION TO CONFIRMATION
OF W. M. DANIELS
By Progressive and Republican Sena
tors Has Been Revived.
Washington, Dec. 20. Confirmation
of Winthrop M. Daniels of New Jersey
to suceed himself as a member of the
Interstate Commerce Commission was
prevented in the senate today by a re
vival of opposition among progressive
republican senators who blocked con
firmation for two months when Mr.
Daniels first was named for the com
mission in 1914. His present term ex
pires January 1 and congress adjourns
tomorrow until January 2 for the holi
days. The re-nomination was favorably
reported today by the commerce com
mittee. Opponents to confirmation
base their rulings made by Mr. Daniels
when he was public utilities commis
sioner of New Jersey but his friends
expressed confidence that he ultimately
would be confirmed.
The senate today confirmed Edwin
F. Sweet as assistant secretary of
commerce.
THEFT OF UNSET GEMS
TO THE VALUE OF $1,650
By an Ostensible Customer From a
Jewelry Store in Derby.
Derby, Conn., Dec. 20. An unidenti
fied man walked into Taylor and
Gregory's jewelry store here tonight,
said he wanted a diamond- for a scarf
pin and, when the clerk displayed a
tray of unset gems valued at $1,650,
the stranger helped himself and made
a successful escape. Although several
clerks started a quick chase the man
disappeared and at a late hour he had
not been located. It is believed he
caught a train south.
DUTCH STEAMER HELD UP
BY A GERMAN SUBMARINE
Solid Shot Fire Across Bow Was
Later. Allowed to Proceed.
Boston, Dec. 20. The Dutch steam
ship Maartensdyk was held up 100
miles from Falmouth, Eng., on Dec. 4
by a German submarine, which fired
a solid shot across her bow but later
allowed the vessel to proceed, Captain
Ryknik reported when his vessel arriv
ed here with a general cargo from
Rotterdam today. The submersible
was of a new and larger 'type, he said.
She bore no number visible to Chief
Officer Veldheer who went obaord
with tho Maartensdyk's papers.
Controversy Over
National Guard
FORESHADOWED AT COMMITTEE
HEARINGS
OPPOSITION TO SCOTT
Conclusions Drawn From Figures to
Support the Contention That the
Guard System is Inefficient Are
Questioned.
Washington, Dec. 20. Sharp con
troversy in congress over the future
of the national guard in the federal
military system was foreshadowed to
day at hearings before committees of
both the house and senate.
Gen. Scott Cross-examined.
Major General Hugh L. Scott, chief
of staff of the army, encountered vig
orous cross examination by several
members of the house military com-
(Continued on Page Two)
FOLKETHING RATIFIES SALE
OF DANISH WEST INDIES
The Vote Was 90 In Favor of and 16
Against Ratification.
Copenhagen, via London, Dec. 20,
9:30 p. m. After a single reading the
Folkething today adopted the bill rati
fying the treaty for the sale of the
Danish West Indies to the United
States. The vote was 90 in favor of
and 16 against ratification. Five mem
bers were absent.
When the bill came up for discus
sion, fourteen members, of whom six
were conservatives and eight of the
Left party, joined in moving an
amendment asking the government to
negotiate with the United States to
purchase only St. Thomas or St. John,
while Denmark would retain the other
two islands. This was rejected by 90
to 14. The proposal for the sale of
three islands was then adopted.
The Landsthing, it is expected, will
ratify the proposal tomorrow and
thus the sale of the islands will be
definitely settled.
HILLES SAYS REPUBLICAN
PARTY LACKS A LEADER
Urges Conference to Plan for Next
Presidential Election.
New York, Dec. 2. Declaring that
the republican party lacks a leader,
Charles D. Hilles, former chairman ot
Rational ccimiHittee.-urged at a, .meet
ing or the -itepubllcan club here to
night that a conference of men prom
inent in the party councils be held in
Washington within a few months to
plan for the next presidential cam
pa gin.
Other speakers urged the need of
organization. Senator John W. Weeks
of Massachusetts asserted a man of
experience, trained in the party coun
eils, should be made national commit
teeman. He suggested that the vari
ous state chairmen meet and elect one
of their number -to the chairmanship.
Senator Weeks contended the present
methods of conducting campaigns were
both wasteful and inefficient. He pro
posed a return to "party machines."
William M. Calder, senator-elect
from New York, expressea tne opinion
that if James R. Sheffield, president
of the Republican club, could have ac
companied Charles E. Hughes on his
western tour in the last campaign he
would have kept the republican candi
date out of complications which were
in a measure responsible for his de
feat. 100 PER CENT DIVIDEND
BY YOUNGSTOWN TUBE CO.
Recommended by Directors To In
crease Capital Stock From $20,000,
000 to $40,000,000.
Youngstown, Ohio, Dec. 20. Stock
holders of the Youngstown Sheet and
Tube company will participate in an
extra dividend, it was decided today
by the directors.
A 100 per cent, stock dividend was
recommended today by the Doard,
which declared the usual quarterly
dividends of 2 per cent, on the com
mon and 1 3-4 per cent, on the pre
ferred stock.
That the recommendation will be
ratified by the stockholders at the an
nual meeting February 13 is unques
tioned. Tho recommendation provides
for the increasing of the capital stock
from $20,000,000 to $40,000,000 and the
100 per cent, declaration in the form
of an extra stock dividend.
ADDITIONAL LAND FORCES
FOR GREAT BRITAIN
House of Commons Passed a Resolu
tion Calling for a Million Men
London, Dec. 20, 10:20 p. m. The
house of commons today passed a res
olution presented by the government
"that an additional number of land
forces not exceeding one million shall
be maintained at home and abroad."
It was explained that no question of
policy was involved but that the co
lonial troops and forces of the crown
exceed the four million already au
thorized and a vote was necessary in
order to regularize the position.
EXPLOSION OF STEAM PIPES
ON OLD DOMINION LINER.
Three Negro Firemen and One Whits
Man Killed Near Norfolk.
Norfolk, Va-j Dec; 20. Three m-cto
firemen were killed and one white
man seriously injured tonight by an
explosion of steam pipes on the OJ.1
Dominion liner Princess Anns, en
route from this port to New Yo. k.
The explosion occurred in the outer
harbor aud the ship was forced to
return for repairs.
Movements. of Steamships
Kirkwall, Dee. 18. Arrived: steam
ers Bergensfjord, New York for Ber
gen; United States, New York for
Christian sand. Sailed: Kristianiania
fjord, (from Bremen) New York.
Bordeaux, Dec. 18 Sailed: steamer
Rochembeau, New York.
New York, Dec. 20. Signalled:
steamer Philadelphia, Liverpool for
New York, 1,116 miles east of Sandy
Hook at 7 a. m..- Dock 8:30 a. m. Sat-
i urday.
Condensed Telegrams
Abram Baudeuine, of New York, well
known yachtsman, is dead.
The British government announced
that it had fixed the price of home
wheat for next season.
President Wilson appointed Kim
brough Stone of Missouri, Federal Dis
tract Judge at St. Louis.
.The Gardner Storage Battery of
Chicago, increased its capital stock
from $450,000 to $1,000,000.
Fire damaged the five-story ware
house of the Long Island Storage Co.
at Brooklyn, at a loss of $25,000.
Fire damaged the Universal Mill of
the Central Iron & Steel Works at
Harrisburg, Pa., at a loss of $ 15,000.
Dr. Walter J. Dodd, for many years
in charge or x-ray work at the Mass
achusetts General Hospital,, is dead.
The Russian Government has placed
orders for 50 additional large engines
with the Canadian Locomotive Co.
A Congressional investigation into
the high cost of paper will be urged
immediately after the holiday recess."
Gold to the amount of $6,500-000
was deposited at the Philadelphia mint
for the account of J. P. Morgan & Co.
Fifty patients were rescued with
difficulty from a fire which destroyed
Cook's Hospital at Fairmont, W. Va
American manufacturers of rope ani
twine have been notified of an increase
of three cents a pound in the .ri;;s ot
sisal.
Eugene Meyer, Jr., resigned as a di
rector and member of the executive
board of the Maxwell Motor Co. of New
York.
The Susana and Borinquen Steam
ship companies were incorporated at
Albany, each with a capital stock of
$i,ouo,oou.
Mrs. Ellen M. McClellan, mother of
former Mayor George B. McClellan,
New York City, left an estate valued
at $83,717.
Articles of incorporation were filed
at Shreveport, La., for the Caddo Oil .fe
Refining Co., with a capital stock of
$10,000,000.
Hawaii is to receive the first squad
ron of airplanes under the new defence
act. Twenty-four machines will be the
first allotment.
The Senate confirmed the nomina
tion of Wm. - F. Rolfe, to be United
States Attorney for the Western Dis
trict of Wisconsin.
Major Maxmillian von Grebe, form
erly of the Prussian army and later an
officer in the Union army during the
civil w ar., is dead. . a . .
Two persons were injured when a
soutnDouna iviaaison Avenue car could
ed with an eastbound crosstown car at
59th Street, New York.
Thomas Gill of New York who was
dismissed from the police force under
Commissioner Waldo, was arrested on
a charge of grand larceny.
Fire destroyed the plant of the H.
flcKiora Co., tur manufacturers, o:
Newark, N. J., at a loss estimated be
tween 150,000 and 175,000.
Thaddeus A. Thompson, retiring min
ister to Colmobia, closed up his busi
ness with the State Department and
left for his home in Texas.
The Association of Paris Theatre
Managers notified the Government that
if the proposed new tax on theatres is
Imposed all the theatres will be closed.
Fire ' destroyed the Stout Furniture
Co.'s fatcory No. 1 and damaged the
plant of the Interstate Public Service
Electrical Co., at Salem, Ind., at a loss
of $200,000.
The Postal Telegraph Co. announced
that messages to Europe by wireless
via Sayville may again be accepted
subject to indefinite delay and at
sender's risk.
The Interstate Commerce Commis
sion held that Joint rates over the Tex
as & New Orleans Railroad on yellow
pine from points in Texas and Louisi
ana were unreasonable.
The Boston fishing schooner John J.
Fallon was condemned and ordered
sold by the Admiralty Court at Hali
fax, N. S., for violations of the Ca
nadian fishery regulations.
Elisha Swan Cornell, an aged cobbler,
one of the heirs to the Hetty Green es
tate, was found dead at his repair
bench in Minneapolis, Minn. He al
ready had received $1,000 from the es
tate. The Berlin Lokal Anzeiger announc
es the death of Major General Ernst
von Zieten, commander of the seven
teenth reserve division. General von
Zieten died at Dantzig as the result of
an operation.
The 24-hour general strike called by
labor organizations as a protest against
the increased price of food has re
sulted in a complete tie-up of factories,
stores and other lines of business
throughout Spain.
. Miss Julia Duncan, a Stamford
school teacher, died several hours
after she had eaten of refreshments
at a church social. The attending
physician attributed death due to
ptomaine poisoning.
Col. George W. H. Mosely, chief of
staff to Major General Chas. H. Clem
ent, of the Seventh Provisional Divi
sion, was ordered to report before the
Senate Committee on Military Affairs
in Washington on Friday.
Flagman Wm. Herchendroder and
Conductor L. E. Johnston, of New
York, were arrested, charged with neg
ligence in connection with the wreck of
the New York-Winsted Express at
Beacon Falls, Dec. 1. in which two men
were killed.
Secrtary of the Navy Daniels ap
pointed a board consisting of Admiral
F. S. Fletcher, Commander F. H.
Clark and Lieut. Commander Reuben
Barkenruse to investigate the Various
Government armor plate plant sites
suggested by the Naval General Board.
American battleships will reach their
limit, of size when tHey displace 70,
000 tons, the House naval committee
was told by the engineering chiefs of
the navy, and only then because a
greater tJiip could not pass throtfgh the
lock of the Panama canal.
BETHLEHEM STEELDR0PPEQ72 POINTS
Losses of Other Stocks Ranged From 5,10 to 15
Points in Continued Liquidation
SHIPPING STOCKS MOST
Peace Developments Were Given as Reason of Price Reces
sions Which Wiped Out Most Gains of Recent Months
r Pressure Exerted by Professional Traders Was the Most
Powerful Factor in Declining in Prices Beneath Surface
Conditions, the General News of the Day Indicated a
Continuance of Prosperity Money Was Easy and in
Light Demand.
New York, Dec. 20. Losses of 5,
10 and 15 points accompanied today's
further sweeping liquidation of stocks,
with 72 points for Bethlehem Steel,
which fell to 500, that quotation rep
resenting a decline of exactly 200
points from its maximum of the pre
vious month.
Reverse in Shipping Stocks.
Rails again proved the only notable
exception to the general reversal,
which took in virtually all war and
semi-war shares. Shipping stocks
were most seriously affected by the
notice served by England's prime min
ister yesterday that it is intended to
exercise supreme control over all ves
sels flying the British flag.
Gains of Months Wiped Out.
Peace developments- were again
made the ostensible weapon to bring
about further price recessions, which
not only effaced most gains of recent
months, but sent some stocks down to
levels of a year ago.
Pressure by Professional Traders
A more powerful factor was found,
however, in the tremendous pressure
exerted t by professional traders, now
largely committed to the bear or short
side of the market. This clique has
operated extensively ever since Ger
many's peace overtures became known
Another powerful influence in the
direction of lower prices was that
wielded by leading financial interests,
which continued to call loans and
mark down all but seasoned stocks of
fered as -collateral, to the Increased
embarrassments of brokers- and their
GREAT BRITAIN MAY . ..
REPLY BEFORE CHRISTMAS
That Opinion Prevails in Government
Circles About President Wilson's
. Peace Note.
London, Dec. 20, 9:21 p. m. There is
a strong probability that Great Brit
ain's note in reply to the German peace
proposal will be made before Christ
mos. This was the opinion in well in
formed government crcles today,
where it is also believed the reply will
be brief and will likely follow the lines
of Lloyd-George's speech as prime
minister in so far as it will leave the
door open for Germany to make con
crete proposals. .
Great Britain's official reply to Ger
many, as prominent officials preferred
to term it, will be despatched simul
taneously with that of her allies. Ever
since the German note was handed to
the foreign office by the American am
bassador it has been the subject of dis
cussions between Premier Lloyd George
and his cabinet council, which meets
daily. The note and the nature of the
reply also have been discussed with
Great Britain's allies and it s stated
that these conversations have pro
gressed so rapidly that preliminary
drafts have already been made.
It would therefore not be surprising
if the allies replies were ready by the
end of the' week Especially, it is said,
would this be true in the case of Great
Britain's note, which the prime min
ister is declared to be anxious to des
patch without delay.
DUTCH STEAMER BRINGS
750,000 QUARTS OF GIN
Is in Port at Boston, but. the Gin is
Destined for Canada.
Boston, Dec. 20. Gin, three-quarters
of a million quarts of it, was one of
the principal items of cargo aboard
the Dutch steamer Maartensdljk,
which reached port today from Rot
terdam. The gin was packed In 50,
000 cases, which presented a rainbow
effect, some being painted red, others
blue, green, violet or some other color
to facilitate handling. The gin is go
ing to Canada.
The Maartensdijk is the first steam
er to bring cargo to Boston from Hol
land in six months. In addition to the
gin she brought shipments of bulbs,
plants, and trees; 35,000 packages of
herring and consignments of other
merchandise.
NIAGARA MEASURE
PASSED IN THE SENATE
Approves Resolution to Authorize In
crease in Amount of Water Diverted
Washington, Dec. 20. Senator
Wadsworth's resolution to authorize
an increase in the amount of water
diverted from the Niagara Falls to
increase the electric power output of
plants oil the merican side of the river
was passed today by the senate. The
measure aims to increase the Ameri
can power output to make up for the
curtailment of power from the Cana
dian side which is being kept at home
for munitions plants and other mili
tary activities. The resolution has the
approval of the war department and
would pesmit until July 17 next the
diversion of 20,000 cubic feet of water
per second. The limit permitted now
is 15,600.
OBITUARY.
Clarke C. Fitts.
Brattleboro, Vt.. Dec. 20. Clarke C.
Fitts, former state attorney general,
died . tonight after an illness of sev
eral weeks at the home of relatives
In Watertown, Mass., according, to
word received -at his home here. Mr.
Fitts was prominent in the organiza
tion of the Connecticut River Power
company of which he was a director.
SERIOUSLY AFFECTED
clients, the latter being in turn forced
to strengthen impaired margins or sell
out.
Board Room Gossip.
According to board room gossip, '
heaviest losses of the past week have
been sustained by a group of western
and southwestern operators, who took
the market out of the hands of local
professionals a few months ago. To
day's more extensive extreme reces
sions, in addition to the setback In
Bethlehem Steel, were Mercantile Ma
rine 16 points, with 7 for tho common;
Atlantic, Gulf and .West Indies 15;
South Porto Rica Sugar 10, and Amer
ican Beet Sugar 6 lr2; .Utah Copper
& 3-4; American Zinc 7: Central Lea
ther 6 3-8, Sloss-Sheffleld Steel 7, Cru
cible Steel 5 3-4. Lackawanna Steel 5
1-2, American Locomotive 4 3-4 and as
muchfor Pressed Steel Car.
Prosperity to Continue.
Despite these adverse surface con
ditions, general news of the day in
dicated a continuance of the long sus
tained, prosperity, aside from reported
price concessions in copper. t , i
The Maig ist of larger or extra divi
dends or the past few months was .
added to by Westinghouse Electric,
which increased the distribution on,
the common stock from 6 to 7 per cent.
Money Was Easy.
Money was again easy and In light
demand, with no alteration in foreign
exchanges, such as may reasonably
be expected to foreshadow important
developments in the European- situa
tion. , ..
SPEEDY TRAVELING IN . . ,
THE FROZEN NORTH
From Nome to Valdez in Ten Days by
Means of an "Aero'' Sled.
San Francisco, Dec. 20. Scotty All
an, three times winner of the Alaskaa
sweepstakes with""S team of dogs, has
established a new record for speeding
traveling in the - frozen North by
making the round trip from Nome to
Valdez in little more than ten days by
means of an "aero sled." By dog
teams the trip usually is made in about
80 days. The news of Allan's
achievement became known here today
with the arrival of Frank O'Connor,
Nome agent of a steamship company.
Allan took the dogs to France for
use in the battlefront in the. Vosges
mountains, and on his way back to
Nome he purchased an engine and pro
pellor, which he installed on a sled.
After several trials he undertook tho
Nome-Valdez journey, about 1,109
miles. In the face of much skepticism.
He started from Nome and 72 hours
later he arrived in Valdez, and return
ing reached Nome on November 11.
His machine is described as a com- '
bination hydroplane, airplane and sled
with gasoline as the motive power.
BANK ROBBERS GET $20,000
IN CURRENCY AND SILVER
From the Oklahoma Bank Near Tulsa
Posses in Pursuit.
Tulsa, Okla., Dec. 20. Robbers en
tered the Oklahoma National bank at
Skiatook, near here today, blew open
the safe and escaped with $20,000 in
currency and silver.
The robbers had several hours' start
on posses for Tulsa and Skiatook, as
telephone and telegraph wires leading
into the town had been cut.
Skiatook is only five miles from tho
Osage hills, for 40 years the rendez
vous of outlaws, and. officials believe
the robbers are hiding there. .
PRICE OF MATCHES IS
TO BE INCREASED
Diamond Company Advances Prices 10
Per Cent.
New York, Dec. 20. A problem that
Is worrying the tobacco trade is the
scarcity of matches. One of the large
chain store companies has posted signs
In Its various establishments stating
that owing to the shortage of labor it
is impossible to get matches. Like,
almost everything else, the price ot
matches has increased recently. Con
sequently, when a customer who pur
chases a 5 -cent cigar asks for free
matches it is with sigh that the re
tailer cuts his profit. The Diamond
Match company last week announced
an advance in prices of about 10 per1
cent. With raw materials scarce and:
labor high, the match trade faces s'
gloomy situation that may not be re-'
lieved until after the war. '
EXPORTS OF PAPER AND
PAPER MANUFACTURES
Will Reach $40,000,000, Doubling Th.it
of Any Previous Year.
Washington, v Dec. 20. Exports r-f
paper and paper manufactures this -year
will reach $40,000,000, doubling
those of any previous year, according;
to 'figures assembled today by ire!
bureau of foreign and domestic com-1'
merce. Increasing exports, some ppr- .
Ushers charge, has been one factor In
increasing prices for news print pape-.
News print paper experts this year ;
have reached a total value of $3,430
000, against $2,260,000 last year, about1
half of it going to Latin America.
The largest purchaser was A-gei-tina,
which took $906,000 worth; Cuba
was second with $365,000; Aus.ralia
third with $302,000, and the Unrted
Kingdom fourth with $233,000. -
