HY uct?-iss !ut Ia&tPb--y
hnk of-why ot send a erad 1ub
3year; by aiL, $.o a year. v___a___&___________
TNO. 3712. WATUIADI. WASHINGTON. D. C.. THURSDAY. -DECEMBER 21. M96. -ONE
PRES
SEl
SOON TO BATTLE
FOR BESSARABIA
Decisive Struggle for Southern
Gates Imminent-Rus
siMns Bar Way.
By the ltermatleal Nem servise.)
Berlin (via Sayville wireless). Dec. IL
The city of Bucharest, according to dis
patches from the Rumanian capital, is
gradually taking on normal appearances.
The new military administration is DOW
in ampoth running order. Business is
going on and the coin of the central
powers circulates freely. The residences
of Premier Bratlanu and other Rumanian
leaders who fled have been locked up by
the miIitary authorities. All available
buildings In Bucharest have been turned
into hospitals.
Decisive Battle Near.
What promises to develop into the de
cisive hattle for the southern gates of
Hessarabia is under way. There is every
indinction that these gAtes have been
barred by the Russians during the last
two months with the most powerful array
,f defense and artillery, and that their
approaches are guarded by a strong Mus
'-ovite army determined to spell the final
halt to the Teuton advance in Northeast
ern Rumania.
In the region of the village of Cerna:
and around Umatchea (Altmagea). the
Petrograd war office announces. "fighting
is proceeding between advanced detach
ments and has attained a more than av
erage intensity."
"In the northermost part of the Do
brudja," says the German war office bul
letin issued last night, "the enemy, who
retreated to that part, again offered fitght
ing resistance."
25 Miles Presa Danube.
The left fank of Field Marshal von
Mackensen's attacking army in this
area, resting on Cernavillage, stands
twenty-ffle miles south of the Danube.
which borders Bessarabia. The advance
to this point represents a progress of six
miles in two days from Pecineaga. Mack
ensen's right in that period advanced
fourteen miles. from Babadagh to Uma
chea.
Thus it is seen that the Teuton speed
already has considerably slackened In the
face of the increasing Russian resist
ance, for last week the invaders covered
tfty miles in three days.
Army Marking Time.
tleanwhile the Teuton army holding the
Inter of the line between Buzeu and the
Black Sea is marking time awaiting the
develo)pments in the Dobrudja. Petro
.rad reports success in checking attempts
to push northward to Braila.
The rent Ion of Birlita. however, where
one attack was repulsed, shows that the
Teutons on this front are only twenty
elcht miles southwest of the important
Rumanian-Danube port. The Teuton Do
brudla forces at Cerna are only twenty
Te mIes and a half from Braila.
I.cal successes by Russian scouting
,etaiments in Galicia. southwest of
StanIslau. and in the wooded Carpath
mns. art reported by Petrograd. Berlin
aserts the reconnaissance thrusts in Ga
i.1a were a failure.
*.FATHER BREAKS NEIK
CHOPPINi YULE TREE
XD t. Rainier Residept Killed While
Helping Children Select Sappling.
'In Tuesday night a Maryland family
sat around their big open fire place,
where a giant log was wrapped In fames.
Outide the snow fell and a wintry wind
lowled like the lone cry of a wolf in the
still Northern night. The family was
happy and comfortable. Five children
listened to their father weave Christmas
tales, and the younger ones clapped their
hands when he told them that they were
going to have a real Christmas tree. The
mother looked on and her heart was glad.
Last night all was changed. The room
that was so warm the night before
seemed cold and tomblike. The mother.
tense and pale, knelt beside a stiff form.
stretched on a sofa. The agony of a
knifed soul was written on her set face.
Five children, their eyes red from hours
of sobbing sat and gazed in silence at
their father's corpse.
Yesterday afternoon, William Hayhoe.
a child of this family, went out in the
woods, hatchet In hand, determined to
cut asree that could be used to hold the
Christmas gifts of father, mother, broth
ers and sister. And William felled a
sapling and proudly dragged it home.
George Hayhoe, his father, climbed a
tree to aid the children. A half an hour
later he fell from the top of a high limb
anid broke his neck.
Hayhoe was a bricklayer and lived at
56 Rainier avenue, near Cedar street.
Mount Rainite Md.
11E8. SKEYTINGTON Rh.
' Widow *t Irish Patriot to Tell of
"MHmband's Murder."
New York. Dec. 2.--Eluding British au
thoritles, Mrs. F. 8. Skeflngton, widow
of the Irish editor who was executed
during the Dublin rebellion gained pas
sage on a stamabipsand arrived here.
She is stopping at a local hoteL. She re
fused to reveal the name of the ves
el, but said she had engaged passag
under an assumed name and dsgsd
herelf before going aboard.
"I wasn deterinedns to come to the
United States ad tell the American
people about my husband's murder, for
that in what it was," abe said today.
Mr. eagtsm a-mae that she will
go upe. a leetere tow.
meejuss Pace. hr casime..
Holidays to polnts Death. December 29
to 21. 3outhern . Cosit Agents,
705 18th 8 e. - .1 ~.~
IDEN
4DS l
Herald's Salary Fight
Moves on to a Victory
Developments yesterday In move
ment for Increased salaries for
government and District employes.
1, Senator Penrose offered an
amendment Incr4Lng the salary
scheduled adopted by the House.
2. Legislative bill will be con
sidered by a sub-committee of the
Senate Committee on appropria
tions.
3. Representatives Taggart, Van
Dyke and Austin predict the Senate
will grant larger increases at Fed
eral Employes' Union mass meet
Ing.
4. House prepares to write the
5 and 10 per cent increases Into
the District bill.
5. Senate leaders agree to amend
the Indian bill, which has already
passed the House so that It will
contain the 5 and 10 per cent in
creases, affecting more than 10.000
employe".
"FRATS"TABOOED
Board of Education Abolishes
High School Societies.
Washington High School fraternities
and sororities were tabooed by the
Board of Education at a meeting yester
day afternoon in Franklin School and
"sociaY" organizations were suggested to
replace them.
With one dissenting vet%, that of
Ernest H. Daniel. vice-president of the
board, the board approved the report of
the special committee, headed by Willitm
T. Galliber. to whom was referred the
question of secret societies. The sub
stance of this report was:
That on and after this date no student
In the High Schools at Washington. shiall
be permitted to join a high school fra
ternity or sorority.
That the penalty for any violation of
this regulation be made expulsion from
the school.
That high school students, now mem
bers of fraternities and sororities, may
retain membership until their graduation
from school under regulations now in
force.
That a committee or commission be ap
pointed to make suggestions at once to
the faculties of the different high schools
for the formation of "social" organlza
tions to which all students shall be eligi
ble; that this commission be made up
of the members of the committee which
investigated the "frat" question. together
with the superintendent of schools, three
citizens who are parents of pupils of high
school age, and three representatives of
each high school faculty, to be chosen
by the principal of the school. who is
also to be included.
That this commission be a continuing
CONTINUED ON PAGE FOUR.
IT IS ALL RONi, EVE;
LilYAS TO BLME
Expert Says Adam's First Wife Was
Pretty But Faithless Blond.
(By the Interantlema News Seyise.)
New York. Dec. 20.-The supreme in
Justice of the ages was cleared up to
day. Henceforth be it known that it is
emphatically not Eve who is responsi
ble for the Ackleness and foibles of
feminine fancies, even though history,
tradition and the serpent have borne
witness to her guilt.
Here's the true story-for the first
time-and you have the word of Robert
P. Dow. editor of the Brooklyn Ento
mological Society Bulletin, for it:
"Eve was Adam's second wife! Hi
first was Llith, a beautiful blond and
a perfect 36. She had all the eccentrici
ties of such a type and one day she took
her fig leaf and her toothbrush and left
Adam fat She was next heard of when
she married a phoenician merchant
whereupon Adam took a rib and made
a woman of his own liking-Eve.
"If you don't believe it." queries Mr.
Dow. "where did Cain and Abel get their
wives?'
FIRE ACROSS 30EDEE.
Mextea.s and U. S. Peree. Exehange
Shots at sata Maria.
San Benito, Texas, Dec. 20.-Company E,
First Oklahoma .nlantry, on guard at
the Santa Maria pumping station, was
fired upon by Mexicans from aocs the
Rio Grande last night.
Two of the fifty shots dred passed
through one of the shelter tents butt no
one was injured. The American soldiers
returned the fire hut owing to the dark
nem could not tell whether any of the
shots took effect.
IKUJUOnwan unrna KAY IVE.
Vincennes. Ind., Dec. 5.-Rescuer, wers
still working heroically today to bring
out of the Olphant-Johnson mine at
Bruceville, ix -e who ar. believed to
be alive foaowing the expleolen and' fire
Whicl kilmea two men ad Injured fire
yeseday. The fire was cntrolled dar
ing the night and It is believed that the
half desen me. who are maig Will
be founed unhurt, as they were far in
the lnterior workings of the mirn when
the en w......
T AC
-OTE
WILL WORK FOR
LARGER RAISES
2,000 D. C. and Federal Em
ployes, at Mass Meeting,
Pledge Support to Plan.
An audience of 2,00 Federal and Dis
trict employes packed National Rifles
Armory last night and gave Represent
tives Taggart, of Kansas; Van Dyke. of
Minnesota. and Austin. of Tennessee.
round after round of applause and cheers
as they pledged their support to securing
a higher graded Increase for government
employes than the 5 and 10 per cent
granted by the House of Representatives.
The meeting was under auspices of the
Federal Employes' Union. and for en
thusiasm and spirit exceeded all previous
gatherings held to promote the cause of
higher wages. Recorder of Deeds John
F. Costello presided.
"It wouldn't- cost as much to give a
fair Increase as it would to build a bat
tleship. and it would do Infmitely more
good." said Representative Taggart. "It
costs 22,500,000 to build a battleship, and
It would take some low-browed, unfeeling
operator of a submarine which travels
under the sea less than twenty-two and
one-half minutes to shoot a torpedo
against it. and nobody would benefit from
the expenditure except the steel trust."
he added.
"The condition of the Treasury, what
ever it is, should not deter Congress from
doing plain justice to the government
employe. We have spent millions to pre
pare adequately for defense and have
voted these millions in response to an
almost universal belief that in some way
we might become Involved in the horrfble
struggde that Is going on across the
water. it is my belief that all our
enemies are in the hospital or the grave
yard. And they are talking peace. I
want to say this and I would write it
cheerfully as my last will and testament.
'please don't worry about Invasion.'
Coedities of Treasury.
"Theme extraordinary expenditures have
made the condition of the Treasury a
subject for serious consideration. We
found the moneys for thsse things. and It
is my beetf that we can fnd the money
for a justified increase and an expendi
ture that is going to do infinitely morelF
good. We can't pay $5 a day to every
body. but we can at least do justice."
Taking up the argument ad, anced by
opponents of higher wages that the gov
ernment employes were free to quit and
could not make as much money in out
side pursuits. Congressman Taggart
declared that if the lawyers in Con
gress argued on that basis, they could
not make their own salaries in their pro
fession. He characterised it as fallacious {
and as no argument at all.
"The most skillful surgeon on a hoe
OONTN4UED ON PAGf SIX.
| Telegraph Tips
New York. Dec. 20.-The steamship
Wascana which arrived today from San
tos. Brazil, reported sighting a myster
ious war craft in the West Indies. that
may have been a German raider.
Detroit. Dec. 2.-Four inches of snow
has fallen here during the last 12 hours
and it Is still failing. Reports from the
State show that snowstorm to be gn
eral.
Hickman, Ky.. Dec .-A severe earth
quake which caused chimneys to tumble
down and houses to rock, was felt here
today. Many residents fled in panic to
the street in their night clothes. The
damage was small.
Atlanta, Ga., Dec. 20.-Fire this morn
ing destroyed the J. P. Allen department
store in the heart of the shopping dis
trict causing a loss of $200,000.
Philadelphia. Dec. 2-Two United
States battlesipS, the Michigan and
Connecticut. from Hampton Roads. ar
rived at the Philadelphia Navy Yard.
League Island, today. They will have a
general overhauling and will proceed ;
West Indian waters for target practice.
Brooklyn. N. Y., Dec. 3D.-W. B. Gunni
son, principal of Eramus High School, of
Brooklyn. one of the foremost educators
of the country, died here early today. Dr.
Gunnison was born In 11 at Abingdon,
Mama., and came to Brooklyn In 18.
Birmingham., Al. Dec. -One negro
was killed and two slightly burned In an
explosion at the Edgewater coal mine
near Birmingham. today. It was a
"pocket explosion" and the image was
slight.
Birmingham, Ala., Dec. 20-One man
was killed and twelve Injured today when
a broken rail threw the Seminole limited
of the Dllinois Central Railroad Into a
ditch at Gold Ridge. Ala.
Jersey City. N. J., Dec. 2.-Explosion
ouf a gasoline tank In an automobile truck
*oday started a fire that causedi .5,060
isnage to several buildings.
Berlin (via Sayville wireless), Dec. 20.
Reports that medals commemorating the
ainletng of the Lusitanla were promis
'uously distributed in Germany were ot
emilally denied today.
Nulsa, Okla., Dec. 20.-Banits late last
night robbed the bank of Skiatook, sbout
ten miles from here and escapled with
Euore than 0%.6
London, Dec. 2.-The Greek govern
ment addressed a note to the allied gov
ernments Complaining of editlons that
have arisen since Greeoe aospted theI
ultimatuma of the entejte, according to 0 i
Beater dir-tol from Athens today.
Harsburg, Pa.. Dec. 5.-Wire today
destroyed Ut. Peter's Lutheran Church.
a dweflnog ad threatened a row of
t Mane husesat Nigh gggba .The
S TO E
TO BELL
SUGGESTS EXCHA
UPON WHICH B
MAY BE FIRN
High Lights in Wilson's
Appeaf to End World War
The President poitb out that he is met proposing poea er *mm
ofering mediation but merely saggesting that seandings be taken and
say he comddently hopes for a response which wil bring a new light
inte the afairs of the world.
He bpes that they (the beligerents) wiE take under conider
atien his suggestions as coming not only fromt a friend hut from the
representi of a nestral nation whose interests have been mot
serieusy afected by the war and whose concern for its early con
cission arises out of a manifest necessity to determine how bt to
safeguard these interests if the war is to contine.
AN the belligerents are asked ta' avew thek views as to the brems
upon which the war might be cencladed and the arrangements which
would be deemed satisfactory as a guaranty against its renewal or
the kindling of any similar conflict in the futere.
The President points out that if only war to esepila -x.on.
and further sacrifce of miliens of Eves is the object of the hbger
ents then hopes of peace and of the wiling concert of free peoples
wig be rendered vain and ide.
The President declares that no nation in the vWmd wrild can
be said to stand outside the infienace of the war er to be safe against
its disturbing efects.
Peace may be nsaer than we knew, he says, the terms which
the beligerents would deem it necessary to insist up an are t se ir.
reconcil- as some have feared; that an interchange of views weld
clear the way at least for conference and make the permansent com
card of the natios a hope of the immediate future, a cmunert of lm
tieng immedimatly practicable.
iON BERNSTORFFSURE MEMBERS OF CONiRESS
PARLEY WILL RESULT, PRAISE WILSON MOVE
;erman Envoy Certain Wilson Note Senator Stone Calls Note "Beginninu
Will Aid Peace Move. of the Enl."
When Count vqn Bernstorff, the Ger . The following opinions on the Pres
nan Ambassador, was Informed of Presi- ident's move for peace were expressed
tent Wilson's note to the belligerents, last night by leaders of the Senate and
Ie said: House:
"Now I am perfectly convinced we will- Cegressman Rainey, of Ilhllsi"This
iave a conference." marks the first step In the direction of
The German Ambassador did not under- peace and may result in opening up
ake to say how the conference would negotiations and in a general armis
se organized or where or when it would tice. It is to be hoped that peace ulti
be held, but he was certain that Presi- mately will be agreed upon with a
lent Wilson's note would have the effect provision for limitation of armaments.
)f bringing about a discussion between In that event we may be able to cut
he belligerents of terms upon which the our allowances for preparedness and
war could be ended, thereby avoid a large deficit in our
From authorities In close touch with revenues."
he German Embassy, it was learned that %enater Stone, ehairmam of the Sea
lermany would be willing to accept ate committee en foreign relations: "It
American mediation if the allies should is a very timely proffer, and I hope it
prefer that to the holding of a formal will constitute the beginning of the
:onference. end. It is up to the belligerents now.
The suggestion was made that a simple I certainly hope it will lead to nego
way of arriving at a preliminary under-' tiations."
itanding would be to have a conference, peaker Chump Clarks: "I am de
somsed of three members, one repre- lighted."
,en the entente allies, one the Congressman Ciamd Kitehi., Deme
reutonic allies, and one the United erasie leader in Houses "The l'resident
3tatea. The German authorities favorthas never done a finer act. All Chris
My sort of a conference rather than an teidom and humanity will be indebted
ittempt to settle the mftter by public to him."
xchange of notes. It was pointed out Congressman Boriand. of Mi.seuril
that an exchange of notes would be "I think the American public wili back
klmost interminable and that it would, tp fully the President In anything he
me impossible to safeguard the rights of can do to bring about peace. The whole
rourteen nations In that way. public sentiment ot the country Is for
peace and the country will endorse
Iwhastever the President can do in that
Rlays Sweetheart and Self d ::e ),o .
Because She Feared to Mar this in very gratifying indeed.
I am heartily in sympathy with any
effort the President may put forth
ctoward bringing peace."
Salem, Ore., Dec. 2.-Beca she, Cougres imn ]oor ot c unayiriva
eeared marriage would mar a aperfect ai "I think the President has ren
ove." 16-year-old Myrtle White shot anddered a very serviceable task to the
tilled Thomas Cummings, 19, to whom 'country. I am sure we will all hope
the was to bave been married soon, andnthis may lead to peace."
Ihen ended her own life. ySeptor Sallsbary: "I have such Con
A note she left disclosed the motive Ilidence in the President's good taste
today, and good judgment that I am con
"We have hd our time." she wrote. vnced the note is fortunate and
Tere marra ould e aoter ike et time l"
rhere, us 1 n-eer-l bye nohe so n peret. a-verservceabl taskto th
oledTomas CFmmines O19, touwhom cuntry ., Deam 2-rewe wall hopxe
sh a ohv enmridso, are tipsa ed tpo pce" aks n
A nte he lef icoe the atti e rsenc in th Pri ntoducd i thse
legislature. gach rudge thacut gat aon
The oldPotm ha s u bie e wro.ving lcens thefoe hlin fortunt and
'Thee thev could T ea anigt.erlkper iento." oeyttInpr-mte
ithemes hve bee another aes erfe c hiet, te ont s h
The wldtheroman has deed t wearn a ~ dtxfrm1t et
in coat spriceding pastdy fte r s itoe ntetr cesada
hein vrh wl npo the cold aod Tonalsaayofnigsht.onNsrfolko
irnd sthesritha il bepence a-s ere navn,
ither frigid time. Tomorrow will con
NURAN PAN T WE, Bltoeb, Que., Dec. s ou-wwr waen
injred tmod when acsne tracks, and
Sant Ros. Cl.,Dec.ia-uthe Emthatrsin aria coail h itroduce il'th
sik h okSe wyfes les beoyee holldng a musto a
~e ictu. culd't scap th ~rs mie cnoth of theanoeyntin tor,utas
$1,250.dite tdy ht aIst Ah grdsy iae tailfrod 1us to ee
iar i ertay i s Dtimoe onThe ar twcere anda
addrten wi tiona tarc Hoft heot on sieatm e.e
-h ln ~dIs5 er 5 a n ju, here toda Che Da n ge W.Iengeand
anta Ro, Ca.met . Vi -Luts, he Br ansugin cringlioah ,l of rail-ren nn
bak h oktesieaa rg o mloye oanm a uter of a
0h sts olntecp h rso ienrho atnjnto oeo
-ui.H ditdtdythth st h enyvai alodjs . e
ID WAR;
IGERENTS
NGE OF TERMS
ASIS FOR PEACE
[LY ESTABLISHED
MENACE TO AMERICA
IN FURTHER WARFARE
REASON FOR ACTION
United States Interests in Jeopardy, Declares
Mr. Wilson-Willing to Give Semces
to Bring End to Strife.
President Wilson, as Chief Executive of the reate mad= wal& Se
been able to keep free from the European war, has taken the 6niteie to e
store and maintain world peace. He has directly addressed al of the hel
ligerents in the great struggle now convulsing Europe, and every sentral
nation on the subject.
Independent of the peace suggestions made by the Teutonic allies the
President has called on the belligerents to "learn how neer the have. of
peace may be for which all mankind longs with an intense and inceeasing
oging."
He does not propose peace, neither does he o0er masedianoa H. deem,
however, call upon the belligerents to "compare views as to the term" es
which the war can be ended,
LANSDIG MAKES ANNOUNCENT.
Announcement of the action of the President was made persoadl
Secretary of State Lansing. The greatest secrecy had enshrouded the actin
,of the Chief Eaecutive. The note was prepared by him personaly aftar
conferring with his Cabinet and was sent in code on Monday to the United
States' Ambassadors and Ministers throughout the workL
Officials here declare they believe the belligerents must heed the ap.
peal of the United States. And it already is certain that the majority, if not al
neutrals and the Vatican. will join in the efort to not only end the war bat
to make further conflicts of this stupendous character impossile.
Two notes, practically the same, were sent forward to the entente and
Teutonic allies. The note to the entente, with the variation found in that
to Germany, was as follows:
TEXT OF PRESIDENT'S NOTE.
Department of State, Washington, December rt rpr6.
"The Secretary of State to Ambassador W. H. Page: (J. W. Gerard:)
"The President directs me to send you the following communication, to
be presented immediately to the minister of foreign affairs of the govern
ment to which you are accredited:
"The President of the United States has instructed me to suggest to
his majesty's government (the imperial German government) a course of
action with regard to the present war which he hopes that the British gov
ernment (the imperial German go% ernment) will take under consideration as
suggested in the most friendly spirit and as coming not only from a friend
but also as coming from the representative of a neutral nation whose in
terests have been most seriously affected by the war and whose concera
for its early conclusion arises out of a manifest necessity to determine how
best to safeguard those interests if the war is to continue.
. SUGGESTION LONG IN MIND.
"The suggestion which I am instructed to make, the President has
long had it in mind to offer. He is somewhat embarrassed to offer it at this
particular time because it may now seem to have been prompted by the re
cent 'overtures of the central powers. (In the Gerryan note: 'prompted by
a desire to play a part in connection with the recent overtures of the cen
tral powers.') It is in fact in no way associated with them in its origin and
the President would have delayed offering it until those overtures had been
answered (In the German note: 'It has in fact been in no way suggested by
them in its orgin and the President would have delayed offering it until
those overtures had been independently answered') but for the fact that it
also concerns the question of peace and may best be considered in connec
tion with other proposals which have the same end in view. The President
can only beg that his suggestion be considered entirely on its own merits
and as if it had been made in other circumstances.
ASKS FOR GOVERNMENTS' VIEWS.
"Th,: President suggests that an early occasion be sought to call oft
fiom all the nations now at war such an avowal of their respective views
as to the terms upon which the war might be concluded and the arrange
ments which would be deemed satisfactory as a guaranty against its re
ne-val or the kindling of any similar conflict in the future as would make it
possible frankly to compare them. He is indifferent as to the means taken
to accomplish this. He would be happy himself to serve or even to take
the Initiative in its accomplishment in any way that might prove acetable,
hat he has no desire to determine th.e imethod or the fusitnientahaty. One
way will be as acceptable to him as another if only the great object he has
in esid be attained.
'atakes the liberty of calling attention to the fact that the objects
whs' statesmen of the belligerents on both sides have in mind in this
waer are virtually the same, as stated in general terms to their own people
and to tie world.
OUTI.iNES BELLIGRERNT VIEWS.
"Each side desires to make the rights and privileges of weak peoples
and imat states as secure against .grsion or denial i. the fatum. asth
rights and privileges of the great and powerful states now at war, Each '
wishes itef to be made secure in the future, along with all ether ntien
and p.pa~ against the recurrence of wars like this and against aggressia.
of uae~ ~ erence of any kind. Each would be jealous of the formation
of anaival leagues to preserve an uncertain balance of power amidss
mnl~jmscions; but each is ready to consider the formation of a
lea asn to insure peace and jostice throughout the world. Beame
that mas step can be taken, however, each deams it necessary Girst to settle
the is~ s1o the present war upon tersas which will certainly saS~d
