FINANCIAL "ED ITT OTST
NIGHT
sVos'
fefrger
Aliening
NIGHT
1?XTRA
&
c
VOL. III. NO. 85
PHILADELPHIA, THURSDAY, DECEMBER 21, 1916
Centum. IBto, it tni rcuo t.tmu Ccunnt.
PRICE ONE CENT
Sanger of war to America
& -
FORCED WILSON TO DEMAND
A SHOWDOWN, LANSING SAYS
X
Continued Invasion of U. S. Rights
t prompted uau to belligerents to De
clare Intentions, Secretary
of State Explains.
FIRST DEVELOPMENTS IN WILSON
MESSAGE TO WARRING NATIONS
OFFICIAL and diplomatic circles In Washington express hopeful views
that President Wilson's communication will open tho way for a penco
conference.
Secretary of State i Lanslnjc explains that tho note was made necessary in
self-dcfcnoc, as the doflnnco of our rights by all belligerents was forcing the
United States closer und closer toward war.
Tho Secretary said that if the note illrl not mnV. ,. ,. u ... i
'that should the United States be driven Into war on cither side that fact
;W0UKl novo i;rcai. iiiwucucu lowaru Bnoncning tho conflict.
, Nearly every Ambassador and Minister in Washington called on Secretary
Tjinstntr and learned his views on the Intent mnvn 1, pr.i.i.n vn.
Senator Hitchcock introduced a resolution Indorsing tho President's peaco
'note, but on objection of Senator Bornh it went over.
Franco nnd Groat Britain already have tho note nnd it was expected
to be delivered in Berlin and Pctrograd beforo nightfall.
. President Wilson will "mark time" pending receipt of n reply from tho j
UClllgCttliVO.
NEW YOniC. Dec. 21.
Private messages received here today stated that the men high In British
Government councils had openly expressed the most intense indignation at tho
action of President Wilson In addressing hid peace messago to the belligerents.
Th,ls attitude may be responsible for the reported action of tho British Gov
ernment in refusing to permit the publication of the Wilson message In London
today.
WASHINGTON, Dec. 21.
German Ambassador von Bernstorff, when told of Secretary Lansing's state
ment on tho President's note, was obviously and plainly disturbed. For the first
"time In months he would not offer a comment either for publication or privately
(en war developments, nc gave the strong Impression that he attached eon
iIderablc significance to Lansing's remarks on the purpose back of the President's
note.
WASHINGTON, Dec. 21. A number of Ambassadors from belligerent
('countries called on Lansing today, presumably to receive and discuss the note
I forwarded to their nntlons. Included In thn lint wprn the Drills, llnllnn Tan.
. ' "-" -"-
S snese, German, Bulgarian, Persian and Turkish.
WASHINGTON. Dec 21.
When informed by your correspondent of Secretary Lansing's declaration
ir, that tho United States is in an "intolerable Dosition." Kenrescntatlvo Kahn. of
PCailfornla, sitting with tho House Military Committee, rose and said dramat
ically: "Gentlemen of the committee, mnko haste! Our country is on the)
.crest of a volcano." - -
WASHINGTON, Dec. 21.
Plainly hinting that thcro is danger of tho United States boing drawn into
lie war, Secretary of State Lansing today said this was the real reason behind
Resident Wilson's messago to tho belligerents.
The situation of tho United States, as a neutral, is rapidly becoming in
ferable, ho said. Therefore, tho President has demanded a showdown. The
pL'ecretary added:
Our rights have been Invaded and the situation is becoming so
intolerable that it cannot go on long. More and more our rights are
invaded by the belligerents on both aides, so that the situation is
, becoming Increasingly critical. I mean by that that we arc growing
nearer to tho vcrgo of war and, therefore, are entitled to know1 what
each belligerent seeks in order that wo can regulate our Conduct in the
future.
It was not ourmaterlal interest-, that were considered when we
said that the situnfpn might become intolerable. We have prospered by
the war. but ou'JRhU have been invaded. JM
Lansing emphasized positively that the German peace proposal and tho
Lloyd George speech had nothing to do with the dispatch of the Wilson note
except possibly to delay sending it
On this point ho authorized quotation as follows:
No nation has been sounded on this matter, and we did not know In
advance 'what Lloyd George would say. And there was no considera
tion of German overtures or the speech of Lloyd George in connection
with the formation of this note.
Tho only thlng tlie German overtures did was possibly to delay
the note a f,ew days.
It was not Anally decided to send this until Mondsy. (The note
was sent Monday night and Tuesday morning.)
The difficulty that face'd the President was that the note might be
construed as a movement for peace nnd in aid of the German overtures,
no specifically denies that that was a factor In the communication
itself.
Previous in nuthnrlilnir thin statement.
ftantlng had talked more freely than usual
;,nnn the same tenor.
E It had been suggested to him that the
Bp!te4 States really was In no position
to atop tho war unless the belligerents
"tstmtelves desired to end It. To this he
elated that If the United States were to
eater the war it would turn tho scale
Mtflnltely, and ha emphailxed that there
M a, feeling- of danger that the country
oiitd be drawn In.
? He had also said that there wa In the
i Administration's mind no purpose to sug
Stat peace in any way,
'! On. tha contrary, he explained that what
generally Interpreted as a dealre to
LMara the peace terms ot both aides was a
jfeatlty an effort to ascertain "what would
itWy the belligerents aa to ending tha
przrr but with tho viewpoint of rendering"
us position of neutrals leas Intolerable.
5 Lansing's; whole talk bore down on tha
withal "w will have to do something" If
tAmsrlean rirhtm fir further Invaded, and If
peta aides continue Infractions of (nterna-
Bnai jaw which Involve American ivw,
ipreperty and rights.
; a number of Ambassadors from, winger
8t countries called on Becretary Lansing
rtsasy. presumably to receive and, dlscujs
The Rapid Transit Proposal
An Authoritative Analysis
The Kvknino l.nx:cH has mado n enrcful analysis of tho proposed agreement
between tho city and the Philadelphia Rapid Trnnslt Company which has resulted
from numerous nnd prolonged conferences between tho officials of the Phila
delphia Rapid Transit Company nnd former Director A. Mcrrltt Taylor, who
has thus continued his lndcfntlgnblo efforts In behalf of Phlladclphlans ns a
private citlten.
This analysis develop most interesting facts with which every cltUcn should
be familiar. In brief, they are a follows:
The Philadelphia Rapid Transit Company accepts the Taylor plan nnd ngrccs
to equip and operate nil of tho high-speed lines Included therein, together with
extensions thereto nnd additional high-speed lines which may hereafter bo built
by the city.
The high-speed lines Included In the Taylor plan nre the Frnnkford elevated,
the Broad street subway with branches nnd delivery loop, tho Woodland nvenue
elevated and the Parkway-North Twenty-ninth street-Henry nvenuo subway
elevated. The Philadelphia Itaplil Transit Company nurses to operate the city-owned, high,
speed lines In conjunction with the Philadelphia Rapid Trnnslt system; also to
substitute free train fern for the present exchange tickets nt all points outside nf the
business district, bounded by Arch nnd Walnut street nnd the two rivers, nt once,
nnd to substitute free transfer for tlio present exchange tickets nt nil point In the
nforesnld business district upon completion of the subway delivery loop under Arch,
Eighth nnd Locust street
RKMODKLINO OK N1NKTKKNTH HTIU'.KT STATION
The Phllidclphla Rapid Transit Company further Agree Immediately to proceed
with such nltcmtlonn In Nineteenth street subwny ntntlon n are necessary to enable
the high-speed train operated In Mf.rket atreel subway to recelvo nnd discharge
passenger nt thnt station. Immediately upon completion of these nltarntton the
high-speed train In tha Market street subway will receive and discharge, pnsscngers
at tho Nineteenth nnd Market Btrco'ji station In the subwny, nnd atlch pissongors
will ha enabled to transfer free between tho highspeed train In tho subwny nnd
tho Nlnotcnth nnd Twentieth street surface lines. Such pnssongers will be entitled
to nn additional transfer on any lino Intersecting the Nineteenth and Twentieth
streets surface lines In cither North 1'hllndelphla or South Philadelphia (outMdo of
the business district), and will thus bo ennbled to travel between West Philadelphia
nd nny point In South Philadelphia 01 any point In North Philadelphia for one live
cent fnrc, pending the completion of tho Hrond street subway nnd delivery loop.
HKNKKITS TO CROSS-TOWN PASSBNOnitB
The nforesnld arrangement will ennblo pussengers In North or South Phila
delphia to take nn en at nnd west surface lino lending to their destination In tho
delivery district or heom1, and nt such olnt of Intersection tn transfer freo to
destination. It will also ennbln p.ssengtrci bound from North or South Philadelphia
to West Philadelphia to take nn ent nnd west surface line tit iv point where 11
Intersects the Nineteenth nnd Twentieth streets surface lines nntl to transfer free
nt that point on tho Nineteenth und Twentieth street surface lines to Nineteenth
street station of tho Market strcot subwny, there transfer freo again on tho Market
Btrcot subwny trains to destination In West Phllndelphln. Passengers bound from West
Philadelphia to either North or Soutn Philadelphia will bo ennbled to make rovrrso
movement by tho tome route nbovo described nt tho snmo cost; nnmely, five cent.
Tho Philadelphia Hnpld Trnrall Company further agrees to tho establishment
of free transfer ns recommended by the Director of tho Dcpnrtincnt of City Transit
In tho 1915 report.
Tho result of tha foregoing arrnngoments Is that thn people n( Philadelphia
havo gained tho right to trnvol In a forward direction by way of tho surfaco hystein,
by way of tha high-speed system or by Joint use of tha surface nnd high speed
facilities from any point to nny other point In Phllndnlpula for ono flvo-cent fnro.
nnd tho district tributary to Nineteenth and Mnrkat streets has, gained tho advan
tages which will reault from the opening of o high-speed station nt that point.
Third. The P. It. T. Comparjy, which Is now earning nearly eight per centoir
Its IO,000-,000 of oflvJltnl-etoclitgre to" accept 'n"rThss(ired flt'o "per owhf thfcreon
and to turn over to the city all of the remaining net incomo resultant from tho
operation of the surfaco system arid of tho city's high speed line, excepting ten per
cent thereof.
An nn example, when the net Income resultant from the operation of tho surfaco
tystem combined with' tho city's high-speed lines In the future amounts to J3.000.000
over the Axed return pf five per cent on the P. It T. stoclt, of that amount tho city
will bo entitled to roccUe JS.700,000 nnd tho P. It. T. Compnny will be entitled to
receive 1300,000, or nn amount equal to an nddltlonal ono per cent on Its capitnl
stock oter nnd above the llvo per cent assured.
PltBMIUM ON HPTICIENT MANAOUofKNT
An the' net Incomo Increases In tho future, during tho term of the contract, tha
P. It T Compnny receives ten per fent thereof nnd tho city ninety per cent thereof
This provision places n premium upon efficient management, which will redound
) the financial benctlt of tho city.
The V. ft T. Company Is today earning' nearly isou.ooo in excess ot tuo nvo
per cent which I assured to Its stockholders under the arrangement with tho city,
and If tho V. It. T. Company continues to make this favorable showing or Increases
tho amount thereof, the aforesaid $000,000 nnd any Increnso In that amount will
be Immediately nvallnblo to the city on tho opening of tho firrt highspeed line,
as an offsot to, or a contribution toward, the chnrges whlci tho city Is required
to meet.
This great contribution In relief ot the city's charges Is an Item of great Import
ance. The plan provides that any suiplus In the treasury of the Philadelphia Itapld
Trnnslt Company on July 1. 19K. In excess of the two per oent dividend recently
declared, and any surplus earned finm July 1, 1918, over und above five per cent
on Philadelphia Itapld Transit stock up to the time of tho opening of the llrst high
speed lines, will be retained In the treaaury of tha compnny as working capltul, and
Its position will thus be strengthened.
pnovisioN Kon ruadjuhtmrnt
It also stipulates that provision shall bo made for such readjustments of furo
at any time during the term of the contract as may be necessary to protect and
secure tho return to the company, or as may be necessary and advisable In the
Interest of tho city tor nny uniurcsceu icuaun ur cuiuwssik;). in uujsti u nun
provision Is to Insure the taxpayers of Philadelphia against, a remote contingency
which 'might arise and become burdi nsome to them. For Instance, If tho city
t'ontlnatd an I'M fear. Column On
ContLoud a Fate Two. Colama Twe
THETWEATHER
For Philadelphia and vtctnKv Vtt-
a, tcith potiWv tome Ught rain or
sow toHtghtf Friday generally fair.
r ww tonight and Frtdav,wth. aooji
dearest Friday morning; gentle
.VJrialite tctod'.
TTVnril nff ntv
1 121 IniooarlM S.jjam.
UKLAVlMUE HIVE TIDE CUaSOKJ
CIIE8TNUT STBE3T
H5Ui Cliiu.iUs wr
WO w&lsr IS IS m 1 mib Wltar . .114 .
xtiSUfltXATlWK AV KJR wW
MURDERS YOUNG BRIDE;
ATTEMPTS TO END LIFE
Day's Quarrel Ends When Du
Pont Worker Here Kills
Woman
Ona of the moat grueaome murders In
police annals was that today of Maria
Elaevlnl by bar husband. Francisco. .
Tha police are not quite sure of the name.
They sot It from bill heads n tha couple'e
room at 1!0T South Thirteenth street, and
could not verify it because the landlady
nnd tha neighbors were too esclled to talk
Intelligently..
The Imaband cut W wife to death and
then wounded hlmaelf ao badly that his
death at St Agnea'a Hospital la believed
near.
All dy FranUeo and Maria quarreled,
and shortly after npon tha roan began to
beat hU wlf. Soma one finally sent a call
to 'tha Fifteenth sod Snyder aVenue police
station, and policemen Oaterholt. Smith
and O'lUgan responded. Thoy climbed to
tha third floor back, where they heard the
mn-a ourae The door was locked and
when they atarted to break it h they heard I
tba man Inside about gleefully!
ypu can't have her; I'e killed her and
I'll kill myself before you can get In."
By the time they broke the door down
the man yas uocotov- bleeding to death
from kf wounds Id tha Ibnat and chart.
He vm plFa$i W "' bod
m ww. ds4 ittga " W8
TRADERS CHUCK STOCKS
ON DECLINING MARKET
Wild Selling Forced by Menac
ing International Crisis War
Securities Slaughtered
Peace Proposals Show
Sharp Effect (n IKnr Stocka
THE following table gives tho cjos
Ing prices of a few war stocks on
December 11, the day beforo tho Her
man peace proposals were issued, tho
final prjco of yesterday and today's
ri.
M II
JW
Asxr Cr ViT
Asur.Un
1UIJ-U Va.
tUlkUkdn MlMl
Trajlble ttl ,
Hmi I'n ' atl
HkadrtMikrl
(I H Sll HO
VlUlbl
sea
Hi,
SI
Yii.
SI
Its
3i
Tilsr
sM
NEW YOniC Dec Jt Wall street wo
virtually "up In the air" today. No one
In the Street knew exactly what to do In
vicar of international developments. When
trading; started there were losses ranging
from i to U ppints, brought about by
the peace suggestions advanced to tha bel
ligerents by Freaident Wilson. Traders
threw their stocks over without, much ra
gs rd as to what they would bring In tha
oven nurktt thair only desire being to Mil.
Setae support was met at tha low level
of tie morales aad there was av small
rT&a'jte tu &uK bWt ptUg H
s5
BIG SHOPPING RUSH
AS MERCURY DROPS
Stores Crowded on Shortest Day
in the Year May ftain
Tonight
This. Is the shortest day In the year, and
Christmas shoppers atfmed to have this fact
In mind ln(beglnnlng their activities early
today. They took advantage of the mild
temperature and the pleasant overhead
weather and crowded the centra) section of
the city as early as 9 o'clock.
Although eight snowfalls have been re
corded In Philadelphia, winter, as the solen
tlats think of It, will not begin until one
minute before U o'elock tonight, Tha aun
will have reached Its lowest altitude of
the year by tomorrow, In crosalng tha
Philadelphia meridian.
A temperature of thirty-nine degrees was
recorded at noon, aad a similar Rendition
for the rest of the day is predicted by tha
local office ot the United States Weather
Bureau, The temperature at o'clock
was thirty-eight degree, whleh was warm
er than at any hour for scleral days.
Tonight, according to the Weather Bu
reau, there Is a strong possibility of snow
or rain.
This is St Thomas's Day In former
year it was an occasion upon which tha
poverty-stricken called upon their wealthy
friends and relatives for Christmas pro
visions. But that eushMU did not prevail
today, pw toe contrary, wmftsrs of aU
in th stwt mms tfc
QUICK NEWS
AUSTRIAN ENVOY SEEKS FRENCH CONSENT
LONDON Dee. SI. Count Tnrnowsklj tho new Austrian Am
bassador to the United Stntcs, has decided not to lenve for Wash
ington until Trnnco ns. well ns Orent nritnln has granted lilm n sre
conduct, says n dlspntch from Vienna today.
LANSING GOES TO CONFER WITH T-ucSluENT
WASHINGTON, Dec. 21. Shottly nfter 13 o'clock this afternoon
Secretary Lansing went to the White House to confer with the
President, presumably on the matter of the "pence uott&'-vut to
nil the beUlgcrut.
HOARD OF VIEWERS HEARS CfcAIMS
The Board of Viewers today heard claims of ten owners of plots of ground
comprised In the plot of twenty ncres nlong tho bunk of tho Wlssnlilckon In tho
vicinity of Abraham llltlcnhotisc nmd and New road near the Walnut lane bridge,
extending about 400 feet back nn Henry street, which Is desired by the city for
Inclusion In l-'alrmount I'nrk, Tho claims nvernged In nluo from ISOOO to 17000
nn ncre, making a total valuation for tho plot nf $120,000 Assistant City Solicitor
C J. Itotnn gave his opinion that rlo tnoro than 14000 nn ncro would ba paid by
the city.
EARLE TO HEAD NAVAL ORDNANCE BUREAU
WAHHINCITO.V. Deo. II.-r-Tho nomination of Commander Unlph ICnrlo to bo
chief of tho Bureau of Ordnance, with the rank of renr admiral, was Bent to the
Henato today.
BERNSTORFF AND SPRING-RICE MEET AND PASS BY
WAHHINOTON. Doc. 21 Count von Bernstorff, the (Icrmnn Ambassador, nnd
rllr Cecil Hprlng-Hlcc. British Ambassador, today mot fare to fnen In a corridor of
tho Htnto Department. It was their llrst meutlng slnco tho outbreak of tho war.
Neither spoke. Before tho war they were, the closest of friends. Von Bernstorff
said It was too dark for him to seo whom he was pnsslng.
$250,000 FIRE IN NfiW CASTLE, PA.
NEW CASTr.n. I'n. Dec. 21 Damage exceeding I2K0.0OO resulted whon n flro
today destroy rd tho J N. Kuer Sons' department ntore, tho Brown A Hamilton
department stote, thu Knox block, tho Woolworth five anti-ten cent store nnd tho
J.rW. Knox grocer". Four firemen worn Injured. ,
WALL STREET KNEW OF WILSON PEACE MOVE, IS CHARGE
NIJW YOtlK, Dec 21. Heportsj wcro current In Willi nlrcot today that tho con
tents of President Wilson's pescc note were known to n. few "Insiders" three days
ago. This was held to bo the renson for tho Inst three days' oxtremaly "bearish"
market, which hus wiped out scores ot iimiill fortunin und inndo larger ones for the
fewwlin Jn9W abouLlU Hundreds ot-tliousnnits of shnres of war stocka-havo beon
dumped into tho whirlpool on the floor thliweek, nnd nlmst every slock has surforaS
severe roverncs. It was reported In the Street today thnt an Investigation would 'be
started to dotermluu how the news leaked nut.
QUICK VOTE EXPECTED IN LANDSTHING ON SALE OF ISLES
COPRNIIAOKX. Dec. 21. An Immediate voto Is expected In tho Lnndsthlng
upon tho proposal to sell thu Danish West I ml I en to tho United States for 23,000,000.
On the preliminary canvass It wnn Indicated that thn vote would bo In favor ot the
unlo, thus giving It nnnl rnttflc.itlon. The rallfylnir of tho hill was passed yesterday
by tho Kolltcthlng by 90 to l.
TABERNACLE WITH BATH FOR BILLY SUNDAY
NKW YOIIK, Dec. 21. A tuberiincln which will scat 20,000 persons nnd pro
vided with a private bath will be built here for "Hilly" Hominy's revival meetings,
which begin April I Tho structure will cost IS0.O0O nnd will bo tho largest over
built In New Yorlc fir n public meeting.
FORGER BEGINS WORK AT $G0 A MONTH TO REPAY VICTIMS
CHICAGO. Doc. 21 At sixty-two, James C. O'Connor, muster forger, whoso
worthies paper nggregnted K&0.000, today began wnrU In nn alike nt S0 n month
In nn effort to repay those who suffered through him. Ho was released from dollct
prison on parole yesterday nfter serving thrctt years of nn Indetcrmlnutu sentence.
23,000 CHICAGO WORKERS GET 53,500,000 IN BONUSES
CIIICAKO, Dor. 21 Approximately 32.000 persons, employed by three com
panies, will prollt by extra compensations totaling 3,SOO,000 ns Christmas gifts,
according lo announcements today. Tho Crane Company will give Its employes
ton per tent on their earnings during tho yeur, nbout 1,1)00,000. The Western
Ulectrto Compnny will pay two weeks' wages to those who have been employed by
It for six months and four weeks' pay to those who havo been In Its service u year.
The nmounts will ho given In ten monthly payments. Ten months of their yearly
salary will be given to all employes at Andres & Co., stock brokers, novernl hundred
In number.
FRANCE HAS CUBA HUNT U-BOAT BASE
HAVANA. Dec. 2t. At tho behest of the French Oovernment, Cuban easels
today began a careful search of tho keys at tho eastern end of the Island for n
suspected Gorman submarine base. France, it was stated, has leasott to suspect
that tha Germans have a base In thu vlalnlty, nnd the Cuban Minister to France
was requested to usl: his Government to maka search.
30,000 STRIKING GARMENT WORKERS WILL RESUME JOBS
NUW YOHK, Dec, 21 Nearly 30,000 ntrlklng parment workers here wjll resume
work Immediately as the result of settlements with fifty manufacturing firms,
announced today by the strikers' committee,
CHRISTMAS TURKEYS FOR WHITE HOUSE EMPLOYES
WASHINOTON, Dec. 21. There'll be a pice fat Christmas turkey in the home
of every While House attache. Following a custom ho adopted whan he came to
the While House, I'rosldent Wilson has ordered a bird for each of his employes 1J5
In a)U
BUYS NAVY SHIP TO BE USED AS FREIGHTER
The United States ship Severn, a three-masted schooner formerly used for
training midshipmen, has been bought from the Navy Department by Francis J.
McDonald, president of the Philadelphia Ship Hapalr Company,' Mifflin street nnd
the Dlaware River, The Severn, built In 1898, was then called the Chesapeake,
The ship, In tow of two tugs, Is expected to arrive hare tomorrow from Norfolk.
She will be rebuilt and used as & freight vessel. The price paid for the shp Is
said to have been 1 1 0.000.
f
U. S. MAY TEST BATTLE CRUISER BUILDING HERE
WASHINGTON, Deo. SI The oonstruetlon of one of the four authorized battle
cruisers, the first built for the United Suite navy at the l'hlle)phkt Navy Yard.
la under consideration by Secretary Daniels today, tfollowli.g a conference with
ship-builders who submitted bids agreeing to construct the ship at cost, plus ten
and fifteen par cent profit, no award was made, the Secretary believing It might be
well for the Oovernment to build one battle erulser to learn just what suoh ships
ought to cost
BRITISH SHIP, AMERICANS ABOARD, SUNK; NO WARNING
WASHINOTON. Vo. SJ. Tba AWf1VW (! t Malts, rJSfkH t Ui tttaie.
wtBijt $ J ijpi,s yi .mlmm w um
WEIGH TRANSIT
OFFER, MAYOR
URGESPE0PLE
Will Not Act Until P. R,
T. Proposal Is Studied
Closely , J
i)
A. MERRITT TAYLOR
GIVES HIS APPROVAL'
flatter Referred to Director
Twining and Will Go
to Councils 1
DETAILS OF PROPOSITION,
Merger With City nnd Granting
of Freo Transfers Features
of Program
The proposnl of the Philadelphia HapM
Transit 'Company to ejulp and operate tha
clty.bullt high-speed ayatem on a basis out
lined by It yesterday wilt not be acted upon
by Councils until every phaae of the com
pany's plan hns'been thrown open to the
fullest public discussion and Director Twin
ing has completed n detailed analysis of the
program for the Mayor.
This was announced by Mayor KmUh
today following a special conference With
City Solicitor Connelly nnd Transit Director
Twining, The Mnyor made It plain that
the administration heads felt the project
was too big nnd too Important to be rushed
through without mature consideration and
careful deliberation. Just how long It
would be beforo any further development
enn be expected tin would not Indicate.
Although no objections to tlie details ot
tho company's proposal have been offered
or protests registered, so far ns the Mayor
knows, somo delay Is Justified, he feels.
In order that no misstep may be mads)
which would be coatly to the city and tha
taxpayers In the future
to wuian MHAsuni:
The Mayor expressed bis views and the
results of the conterenco as follows; T ,
Tile Mayor will have no statement
to make regarding tho attttud of tha
administration on tha proposed, tran
sit lease In advanco ot tils message to
Councils on this subject Tha matter
Is of Midi salt Importance to the' peo
ple) of 1'hllndelphla that the admlnls
tintlon will Investigate avery phaso of ,
It beforo making any recommendations..
Tlie proposal submitted by tha Phila
delphia .Itapld Transit Company has
been referred to tho Transit Depart
ment. The Transit Director has been
Instructed to mnke a report to the
Mayor, who. In the meanwhile, will
givo careful consideration to every
point Involved In order that the people
and their representatives In Councils
may be fully Informed ns to the respon
sibility involved In tha undertaking
both by the city and the company.
Neither Director Twining nor City Solici
tor Connelly would mnko nny comment fol
lowing the conference. Doth referred all
questions to the Mayor.
AIWnoVUD I1V TAYLOR
That the approval of tho people will ba
given without qualification seems to ba the
view of tho Mayor. The hearty Indorse
ment given the plan by former Transit
Director A. Merrltt Taylor, ha believes,
will facllltnte Its ratification, because tha
people have tha fullest confidence In the
Judgment of Mr. Taylor Immediately after
the plan was made public yesterday the
former Transit Director made tha following
statement:
The proposition submitted to the city
by tho 1'hllndelphla Itapld Transit
Company Is Just nnd fair to all
Parties In Interest It meets with
my unqualified approval The pro.
vision contalneds therein nre the result
of many conferences attended by
Messrs. Mtotesbury, Mitten, Lloyd, Bal
lard mid myself. It gives me great
pleasure to state that all participants
In these conferences considered and
Cenllnitfd en Iss Pitt, Cslama Osa
AUTOTRUCKS COLLIDE;
HELPER ON ONE KILLED
Iloth Drivers Held for Death und Two
Riders Detained as Material
Witnesses
Henry Wllvert. sixteen years old $11
Ktella street, a helper on an automohtla
delivery truck, was killed almost Instantly
today when tha vehicle collided with an
other heavy avjtotruck at Blghteenth street
and OJrard avenue Marcus Uoggenburs- .
2(97 North Klghls.ntli street, the driver
with Wllvert, was slightly Injured. v7
nog genburger and John Smith, driver of '
the second truck, were arretted by thi
police of the Nineteenth and Oiford streets
station on charges of Involuntary rns.iv.
slaughter, and they will have herlnga la
Central Pollee Court Daniel Slmms, 411
South Van Pelt street, and Charles "Witt
Hams, H Lombard street, who ware In ti
delivery truck, were held aa material wit :
nessea,
.
AGHD MAN FOUND DEAD IN BEDf
$ , . W'
Revolver Discovered in Room, bai- f
There la No Wound
Conrad Shlaaler, eighty-one year? eld, t
)) North Fifth street, was found 4Wt ''
tn bed by a msraber of tha family , .
Deputy Coroner Oreenhalgh found a r
volver under bed' a Hhtsatara nnu. '
Wyf reJstU- f tba 44 as it!
Jpft hHP W ''H' 4s -"pt -WPP JWPbiw RbbPssJ
f
1
m
it 11
Sff(WWSHHjJL IS y f f W
