,F,iiry i-^vr? -- "?> > ' ^ ;
/
Asfa the T~D for It
lis Information Bureau Is at
Your Disposal
SMOPPINK3 PAV3
pur numbgfj
3
AND our At?s
>Wp 0ETTET4.
See*!
66th YEAR
V()Ll)IK 08
m >>tii.it :?nr?
RICHMOND, VA., THURSDAY, DECEMBER 21, 1916.?TWELVE PACES.
?RAIN
PRICE. TWO CENTS
Kenowned Surgeon Expires Sud-'
denly While Shaving in
His Bathroom.
ENJOYED WIDE REPUTATION
)Was Leading Spirit in Founding
Memorial Hospital and Merg
ing Medical Colleges.
Willi* in the act of shaving and Mur
ine the temporary absence from the
. room of his nurse. Miss Kwlng, Dr.
'?eorge Ben Johnston dropped dead In
his home, 405 |2n81 Grace Street, yes
terday afternoon at 12:30 o'clock.
Mr. Johnston had been suffering from
an affection of the heart for six yearn.
U was known that death might come
? nt any liftant. and ihe family was not
, entirely unprepared. Miss ICwing
heard the sound of his fall, and rushed
to the room. He had expired when rh
reached him. I ?r. Dougi.H Vander
Hoof, of G03 Fast Grace Street, an
swered the call for medical aid. He
? tilled that death had l?een immediate.
Mr Johnston was in his sixty-fourth
>"tir. rhouifh his father, t'nited States
Senator John Warn. Id Johnston, had
desired him to apprentice himself to
the .study of law. I >r. Johnston fol
ow?d his own inclinations, and. after
his early schooling, studied medicine
i at the University of Virginia and at
the | nlversity of the <-|ty of New Vork
following two years' practice at Ab
ingdon. where he had gone to s< hool
tt hoy. he came to Richmond. and by
his energy, his aptitude and his skill
soon bullt up a practice that demanded
??ill his time and attention. Me wa* af
filiated in various capacities with the
Medical College of Virginia. and in the
last few years he was one of its direc
tors He was the pioneer in hospital
building in illi-limtitnl, and the Me
morial Hospital is a monument to hi*
devotion an Idea as w. n ? lnA|lu.
tnent to the ? harity of John I
Williams
WON <. It K AT It i:\ltu \
AS SK I l.l.l't I, si ft r; |,i t
Unrly in life Dr. Johnston became
renowned as a .skillful surgeon. ||,.
was the first in Virginia l.? perform
an operation under the aseptic method
<>f the KiiKlish surgeon Lister. His
repuiation became national, and honor
* ai,d distinction were showered on him
J>y medical, surgical and literary so
cieties. His work came under the no
tice of the I'nited Stales government,
and twice ho was appointed as a dele
gale to meetings of the International
Surgical Association in Kurope
his reputation grew his practice in
creased. but never at the fxpense of
his deeds of charity. He gave us much
of his patience and his skill to charity
cases as he did to those who were able
to pay him for his services. In this
work he was undemonstrative, and
none knew its extent save the members
. of his family and a few Intimate
friends He Kave as largely from his
purse as he did of his skill; no,.e. it
is said of hint, went to him in vain.
Mr. Johnston was as skilled a
teacher as he was a surgeon, and an
, appointment as an interne in his hos
pital. the Johnston-Willis Sanatorium,
was a prize greatly sought after by
the students of the Medical College of
. "Virginia. His pupils are scattered
throughout the United States. In his
honor the flag on the Capitol Building
was lowered to half-mast yesterday
I afternoon.
Mr. Johnston is survived by his wife
four daughters. Misses Anne Hoy'
Xickettl Floyd, Helen Kutherfoor 1 and
Susan Hoy Johnston: by three sisters
Mrs. Henry Lee and Miss Coralie
Johnston, of Richmond, and Mrs. I,. J.
MacMullen, of Baltimore, and by one
brother. Colonel Joseph B. Johnston, of
this city. The funeral will take place
to-morrow morning at io:.io o'clock
? from St. Peters Cathedral. Bishop
Hennls J. O'Connell and He v. Father
J. J. Bowler wyi officiate.
In accordance with Dr. Johnston's
oft-expressed wish, there will he no
honorary pallbearers. The active pall
bearers will he the members of the
Johnston-Willis Hospital staff.
WAS Glt.t\n\R!'||K\V
OF (;K\K?AI, JOHNSTON
Mr. Johnston was born In Tazewell
r'ounty on July 25. 1853. the son of
Senator John Warfleld Johnston and
Mcketti Buchanan Johnston. He was
a grandnephew of General Joseph 10.
Johnston, of Confederate fame in the i
War Between the States. He received
his early education at the Abingdon
Male Academy, and later at St. Vin
cent s College, Wheeling, W. Vn. Af
terwards he attended the University !
of Virginia, two years In the academic ;
department and one year In the medi- I
cal department. He graduated in !
medicine at the University of the City '
of New 'i ork In 1876. For two years
? nfter his graduation he practiced in
Abingdon, where he was associated
with Dr. K. m. Campbell, a man of
wide reputation in that section of the i
State.
In 1879 Dr. Johnston performed the I
first operation in Virginia tinder Lis
terlsni, which was the beginning of
antiseptic surgery. He served several
years as adjunct professor of materia
medica In the Medical College of Vir
ginia. and in 1884 he was elected pro- !
fessor of anatomy. This position he I
held until 1888, when he resigned be
cause of the press of a large and In
creasing general practice. For some '
years he devoted himself to general
practice, his surgical work, due to
natural aptitude and to desire, de
veloping out of this.
In 1893 he was elected professor of
didactic and clinical surgery in the
Medical College of Virginia, succeeding
Professor J. S. Dorsey Cullen. Three
years later, at his suggestion nnd to
meet the requirements of an advanced
(Continued on Third Page.)
CHRISTMAS BOMBAY RATES
isv&umk n??? >??<????>"
Prominent Local Surgeon
Answers Final Summons
mt. ?;i:oit<;>: ni;x joh.nstox.
II SECRETARY FAVORS
MORE CENTRALIZATION
Tells Civic Association Municipal
(?overninent in America Needs
Tightening L'p.
CITIKS MI ST I ACM ( IIA IXKNGK
Can Accomplish Nothing, Says Hak
er, hy Grumbling at Inctlicient Of
ficers and Neglecting Elections.
Kntertainetl hy University Club.
no -pecili'.' our- for any civil
f-vil, but suggestinvr as ihe immediate
i ? ed of i,n Atncilc;!n iliie.- a centrali
zation of municipal uovornmont, 11
watchful supervision of |>u)>lic expendi
tures find a livelier ?-fi"< rt fur .social
welfare. Newton 1?. Maker, Secretary of
War, addressed the Civic Association
<>f Mlchmond in tin? John .Marshall
tligh hool l-fst night. an<i said at the
?.?nil ->f his talk thai if he had inspired
one \oUng man with a desire to live
and work for his city, he would tcel
repaid for the journey to Richmond.
The address was not- in the form'of
u lecture on municipal governments,
hut a quiet, tonlldentiul chat in which
th<* speaker disarmed possible adverse
criticism by suggesting general reme
dies for the more common evils. There
was prolonged applause when the
young-looking Cabinet member walked
to the front of the rostrum, and for
several moments .Mr. Maker was al
lowed only to smile. There was
vociferous applause again when
took hi- seat. and he was forced to
respond with a bow. Afterwards many
member^ of Mi* association and women
went up to shake his hand and to ex
press their appreciation of his talk.
i?i:ci.i vi;s to disci ss
MII-ITAItl covsi ItlPTION
Mr. Maker was entertained in the
evening at the Jefferson Hotel, and
last night a smoker was given in his
! honor .?t the I'niversity Oiub. Asked
| after the meeting to express his view
its to military conscription or other
form of nutioii.-il defense, Mr. Maker
courteously dc-Hued to be interviewed,
savins that suggestions from army ofli
cers were to he made only before the
proper congressional committees.
Mr. Maker was introduced by John
<\ Kaslev, president of tlie association,
after John Stewart Mr.van had ex
plained the objects of the organiza
tion.
Mr. Maker sai<| that city dwellers
miss the corrective discipline of neigh
borhood opinion based on knowledge,
and stated that some substitute must
be found for those things which were
withdrawn when people moved from
the crfuntrv to the city. \ Occupational
diseases, the strain which sends men
and women to asylums. Jails and re
formatories. and the exactions of city
life, he said, show that there is need
for relief.
The secretary would not yield to the
temptation to discuss the struggle in
Kurope. but he hnd found, he said, that
all Kurope was obsessed with the idea
of working for the common welfare.
America, he said, has had a hard time
with its cities, lie quoted f >r'i;? r Am
bassador Mryce as having said that It
is too soon to say whether the Ameri
! can experiment with democratic gov
! eminent will succeed, because Amerl
i cans have not yet learned how to gov
I ern their cities.
; Ml I* ATM XT I'ltOCKSS
KOH CITY (i O V10 ItX.11KXT
Mr. Maker said that there Is no
| patent process l?y which certain forms
I ?f government may be molded for
I varying needs, hut there are underly
ing principles which are necessary in
all forms. Any city, he said, must he
so governed that the people can put
their linger on an individual and hold
him responsible. Americans get more
, for their, city taxes than any other peo
ple. hut, he argued, they should set
even more. Creator effort, he sug
gested. should he devoted to the social
welfare, for the function of the city
I is becoming vastly more extended and
! more complex. The government should
be more centralized; there should he
j a closer Expenditure of the public
funds; the answer to inefficiency in
office-holders should not be in the en
actment of paralyzing laws, but to re
place them with more competent men.
Xo city, he said, can accomplish any
thing by neglecting elections and then
grumbling a* Inefficient officers.
"There is a challenge at this hour
to those who live In America," he said
"We must devire effective and efficient
city government; we must attend to
the business of protecting the lives
! (Continued on Secontf l'age.)
START FOR HOME
ON DECEMBER 27
i General Funston Fixes Date for
Entrainment of Virginia
Infantry.
DUE HERE NEW YEAR'S DAY
S Mayor Appoints Committee of
100 to Arrange Welcome
for Guardsmen.
Positive information that the First
i Virginia Infantry would entrain for
I home on Decernber -? was received
i last ntglit by tin: Administrative Hoard.
The information came directly from
General Frederick Fnnston, supreme
commander of the I'nited States forces
on the Mexican border. Kntralnlng on
that date, the regiment, which in
cludes the Richmond Grays' Battalion,
should arrive In Richmond on New
Year's Day.
The information was requested by
the board iti order that th? use of the
First Regiment Armory for tiie auto
mobile show, which will be. held be
I ginning January 2". could he assured.
Upon receiving the telegram, Mr. Mob
son, of tii" hoard, notified mmlt
tee in charge of arrangements that the
question will not he finally determined
until tit" troops arrive, when Major
J. Fulmer Bright. commander of the
I Richmond Grays* Bi'ttaliun. will he
consulted in regard to the use of the
' buil'lin-'.
For th?> purpose of arranging tiie
details of the reception to he tendered
the First Virginia Infantry. Mayor
George Ainsii* yesterday afternoon se
lected a committee of }??) members. A
meeting of this committee will he
called within tiie next two days to
discuss plans for the welcome to be
extended the returning guardsmen.
COMMITTKK IS I) It A \V N
I* It (Ml MAN Y ORGANIZATIONS
The committee as announced by the
Mayor is composed of members of the
, First Virginia Regiment Association,
th? Richmond Light Infantry Blums'
; Association, the Richmond Howitzers'
I Association, presidents and vice-presi
dent? of the two branches of the City
1 Council, chairmen and vice-chairmen of
all Council committees and municipal
hoards, and representatives, of tiie
Chamber of Commerce. Business Men'.?
Club, Rotary <'lub, allied trade organi
zations. Richmond members of the Gen
eral Assembly and representatives of
the press. Active, as well as former,
members of the militia are included on
the committee.
The plans for the welcome will neces
sarily he hasty, as tiie troops will
probably reach Richmond within tiie
n?-xt ten days. fending the formal
mustering-out of the regiment, the men
will he quartered in the three locsl
armories, remaining here probably for
:t week or ten days. During the visit
| of the militiamen, it is planned to show
them that this city is awake to the
sacrifices tliat they made for the de
fense of their country. The welcome
will he for the entire regiment, and
not for tiie Richmond Grays' Battalion
alone.
Information regarding tiie proposed
disposition of the troops to lie re
turned to Richmond to be mustered out
of the Federal service was reoueste<l
yesterday by the War Department.
Adjutant-General \V. \V. Sale immedi
ately telegraphed the plan arranged
by his department, together with the
request that he he given permission
to detail an officer to make the ar
rangements before tiie arrival of the
t roops.
PltlU'.t RATIONS \ XDKll WAV
to iioi'sk nucimnxT
General Sale has arranged to divide
1 the regiment into three detachments
which will he allotted to the various
| armories. The Richmond Grays' Rat
talion. of course, will occupy its own
armory. The other battalions will
j assigned to tiie Blues' and Howitzers'
Armories.
The department also requested in
formation regarding the home stations
: of the various companies. Owing to
tiie formation of the supply, headquar
ters and machine-gun companies since
the regiment went into the Federal
service, the Adjutant-General was at
a loss to pive their locations in time
of peace. It is probable that one of
the companies will have its headquar
ters here. Tiie First Infantry com
panies are as follows: Companies A.
B. C and F. Richmond: Companies F
; and I.. Lynchburg: Company D. Char
lottesville; Company II, Covington
Companies I and K. Staunton, and
Company M. Danville.
Adjutant-General Sale, in his request
for an officer to.carry out the prelimi
naries. states that one will be needed
to look after the transportation when
the regiment arrives and to make ar
i rangements for the -subsistence of the
animals and the mess for the men and
officers. lie lias also requested in
formation regarding, the numerical
strength of the regiment, In order
j that he will not have to guess in get
ting ready for its reception.
SKVKIIA I. ?;i AHDSMKN WII.l.
SI'I0N1> CHRISTMAS IIBRK
i
Captain A. B. Cousins, of Company
' F. Richmond Grays' Battalion, who Is
in Richmond on furlough, received a
telegram yesterday from Colonel Perry
; advising him that he need not report
I at Brownsville, but to hold himself
| subject to further orders. Captain
| Cousins was due back with his com
mand on December 23. and, unless
ordered away, will bo able to spend
Christmas with his family.
Two other Richmond boys will spend
Christmas at home. They are Clar
ence Wyatt, Jr., and Mills N'eill, who
are home on furlough. James Patton.
Jr.. is expected to reach Richmond to
morrow. All are members of the Rich
mond Blues.
Lieute'nant Chester McGeo, of Com
pany L. First Infantry, passed through
'tichmond yesterday on his way to
Lynchburg, lieutenant McGee was Ir
command of Company I, when an un
(Continued on Third Page.)
ALLIES MAY REPLY
BEFORE CHRISTMAS
Believed Answer Will Leave
Door Open for Germany to
Make Concrete Proposals.
PRELIMINARY DRAFTS MADE
Terms of Note Expected to Fol
low Lloyd George's Speech
in Commons.
I Hy A?xnr ti.le.l frrs* ]
MtXrxjX. I ?ccemb"r 20.?Thorp is a
strong probahilit v tImt Great Britain's'
note in reply ,o ?l,o .;,rinall |)n;|(... J|ro.
posal will be mad- before Christmas.
1 lh,H was opinion in well-informed
government circ-l-s to-,lay. ??!?., ,t
a,so ??cll?v?l lh.. rof.lv W|i| t,o i?.ief
and will likely rollow the linos of
Lloyd George's maid-,, sp^,, a. Prime
Minister in so fa, as it will ,t..lve ,he
?Joor ope,, for G*rm.,ny to muk, con
crete peace proposals.
<>reat Britain's official reptv to ?;er
many. as prominent onicinls "preferred
t" tf-rr., u. will t?. dispatched simul
taneously with t|,al ?r her aMi(.s Kv<>r
since the German note was han.led to
the Foreign Office i,y ,|,h American
ambassador it has been the subject of
discussions between Premier Moyd
George and his Cabinet council, which
meets daily. The note an,I the nature
of the reply also have been disclosed
! with Great 'Pitain's allies, and it is
staled that these conversations have
progressed so rapidly that preliminary
drafts have already been made
It would, therefore, not he surpris
ing if the allies' replies were readv
by the end oj the week. Especially,
it is said, would this be true in the
, case of Ureal Britain's note, which (he
Prime Minister is declared to b?
anxious to dispatch without delay.
KKl'I.Y TO III-; KOItW'AltOICII
Til HO I'till U ASIIIMiTOV
When the terms of the note are
definitely agreed upon and the docu
ment is signed by Lord P.obert Cecil.
who is acting Foreign Secretary in the
I absence of Mr. Balfour. it may be!
handed to Ambassador Page with the
re.|uest that he forward it to the State
Department at Washington for trans
mission to Germany. This is said to
be the most likely method, inasmuch
as the L nlte<i States represents the
allies' interests in Germany. It is just
possible, however," that Great Britain
may decide to dispatch the reply direct
to the British ambassador at Wash
ington, with instructions to turn it
ovrp to the State Oopartmont.
The bulk of the morning papers
i agree that Premier Lloyd George ex- |
j pressed the views of the British-nation
in his speech in the House of Commons |
dealing with Germany's peace pro
posal.
"Premier Lloyd George," says the I
Times, "expressed the thoughts and
| wishes of th- nation and laid down a i
program which will command its hearty i
support." This is the time of the com
ment in most of th?* other papers, who j
hold that th? Premier's answer and
also Lord f'urzon's speech in the House
of Lords are "moderate in phrase, firm I
and unanswerable in substance." The 1
papers declare that the nation is pre
pared and will willingly undertake all .
the sacrifices foreshadowed, and will
face greater privations if necessary to
insure those ends of reparation and
security which the allies demand from
the central powers.
There is nowhere any hostile criti- :
cism of the government's declaration,
but the Daily News contends that the j
forecast of the measures for organizing
the nation do little more than indicate
that the policy of the late government
will be continued and extended. It
says that if the new government suc
ceeds as well as its predecessor, the
nation will be grateful, and that if it
succeeds the nation will be more than
grateful.
IIOOIl NOT \KCKSS.A Itll.Y
ha.\?;ki? a\? noi/rioi)
At the same time tbe newspaper com
ment points out the possibility of nego
tiations being undertaken, notwith
standing the strong statements of the
Premier and Lord Curzon and their in
dorsement by members of the inte gov
ernment. Thus the Dally News says
that the door Is not necessarily banged j
and bolted, and that the allies' flat '
refusal of Chancellor von llethmnnn
IIollweg's offer is not meant to indi
cate I ha i the allies do not wish peace,
but that Germany must ask it in the
role of the vanquished and not the
victor. The News expresses the hope j
that the allies will speedily agree on
precise terms on which they will be I
willing to negotiate. lOven the Mail. !
which has always demanded extreme
measures against Germany, says:
"There is no obstacle whatever to i
pence If Germany really wants it. She '
has merely to withdraw from the occu- '
pied countries, and we are willing
enough to discuss reparation and guar- 1
antees for the future.'*
Premier Lloyd George's reply to Ger
many's peace proposal meets with a i
chorus of approval in the British press. |
and the general comment is that if '
Germany really wants peace she will. !
when the joint reply of the allies is !
received, stale terms which ran form u
basis of discussion. The Manchester '
Guardian says:
"Premier, Lloyd George has not shut
the door on peace with that resounding '
clang for which some of his less
balanced supporters In the press have j
been listening It is true he insisted
on the impossibility of accepting tbe
German invitation as it stands. In j
this he was ably seconded by Mr. As- !
<iulth. and will be approved by the :
j country. . . . The German Chancellor
must lie both more modest and more
explicit before he can expect any fav
orable answer lo his visitation. But
the real danger In tbe situation which
his offer created was that the allies. I
this country In particular, might be
led into an abrupt and sweeping re- I
fusal, not merely of the actual invita
tion, but of any proposal to discuss
peace terms. This snare Lloyd George
has avoided."
The Guardian says that as the speech
(Continued on Second Page.)
PRESIDENT MOVES
TO END GREAT WAR
High Lights in President's Appeal
to Belligerent European Nations
llr hoprn flint thry (tlir hrlUc- |
rrrnlm will ItiKr unilrr ninsldrru
lion Ills NUKRrKlioiK n? coming not
only from u l?rirn<l, lint from tin*
rr|)rmriitnllvr of a neutral tuition
wlionr Interrntn luivr lirm iikwI ?r
riounl) nfl'crtrd liy tlir nnr, mill
u Iiokc riini'rrn fi?r Itn rnrly ron
fliihlon nrtKPH out of n munifrnt nr
crnnlty to dctrrmlnr linu hrnt to
unfrKimril thonr Intrrrntn If tlir n:ir
In to lir continued.
Tlir Prrnldrnt bi'K* tlmt IiIh niiK
crKtlnn lif run ililcrrd rntlrcly on Itn
own merlin. nnd an if It lind lirrii
?uuilr lu othrr I'lrriiniHtunrrn.
All tlir lirliiKrrrntn nrr imkrd to
man their vlrwn an to tlir termn
upon which thr ?nr might lir con
cluded. iiii<1 tlir nrriiiiRrnirntH nlilrh
would l>r deemed nutInfnctory iim ii
guiiriioty ukiiIiihI Iim rrnrwR) or tlir
kltttllltifv of nny nltnllnr conflict in
tlir futurr.
llr culin nttrntlon to thr fnrf tliut
tlir ohjrrtn which tlir ntiitrnmrn of
thr lirlllfrrrrntn linvr in mini! vlr
finally" nrr tlir rnimr nn ntutrri liy
tlirin in fcrnrrtil termn.
Tlir I'rr.ildrnt point* out flint rnrh
Midr I'lultiiN flint It nnntii nrnk pro
|ilrN null nntlonn protrctrd, nnil rivni
Irnuurn to prmrnr nn unrrrtnln
hnliinrr of powrr mnilr litiponnililr.
In nuch mriiniiren to prrsrrvr thr
pence of tlir world. tlir l iiltrd Sfutrn
in Mold by thr Prrnldrnt to hr nn
vllnlly it nil illrrrtly lutrrrntrd nn
uny of thr nnliniiN nirn nt nnr.
In prrnrrvlnj? tlir rlifhtn of ivrnkrr
nntlonn. thr I lilted Statrn In miiIiI
to lutvr nn quirk nnd nrdruf un In
trrrnl im tin> proplrn or novern
?iirnt.
llr pointn out thnt. if only wur
to romplrtr rxhnuntlon nnd further
nnrrillcc of mlllionn of llvrn in tlir
nlijrrt of thr lirillnrrrntn, fhrn liopm
of prurr nnd of ivilllnK ronrrrt or
I rrr proplrn will lir rrndrrrd vtlln
mid Idir.
'I'hr I'rrNidriit drilnrrx that no
nntloii in tlir rlvllii'.rd world rnn hr
siiiii to nlnnd oiilnldr thr intiiiriirr
of thr 11 nr. or to lie nnfr ngiiiimt Itn
dlntorhiiitc rfVrrtn.
'I'hr icrnrrul trrmn of both nldr*.
thr I'rrnldriit nnyn. nrrm thr nmnr,
nnd thru point* out thut thr world
linn lirrn Irft to conjreturr wlilll
drlinltr rrnultn; rrliut nrtunl ri
cliniiur of cunrnntrmi whnt political
or trrrltorinl chungm or rriidjunt
mrntHj whnt ntliKr of military nue
I'r.i* rwn would lirlnc thr nnr to
nn rnd.
Tlir Prrnldrnt drrlnrrn hr In not
proponing prnrr or rvrn offering
mediation, hut nirrrly thnt nound
liijrn lir tnlirn, ninl nnyn hr rnnH
drnfly hoprM for n rrnponnr which
will bring n nnr light Into thr nf
fulr of thr world.
SECOND PIPES COLLECTS
WILL TAKE PEJICE T0-DIT
Times-Dispatch Truck* Ho^in tit
Noon to Make Hounds
of Schools.
KXIM-X'T HEAVY ACCUMULATION*
Children Have Keen l'!n(?aK?l All
Week in Stacking Up Piles of Old
Newspapers and Magazines in Iii?
Conservation Campaign.
Tic second collection ?? f waste paper,
I including old newspapers and niagu
zincs, will be made from the public
? .schools to-day. Ten automobiles h?v<
been enBagod to visit each school in
the city and suburbs, starting <>nt at
noon and working until dark. It l?r
fxpeeled thai tons of paper will be]
sold in bulk, the proceeds going to
the schools in proportion to the amount
collected 1>\ tiie children in each in- I
st it itt ion.
The Times- IMsnatch waste-paper- '
collecting campaign resulted last week
In 12.952 pounds of this valuable com
mercial product lining salvaged from
the homes of the school children. On i
account of the extremely bad weather,
a small-sized blizzard being in prog
ress. the amount collected fell short
of what had been expected, but was
more than encouraging. Several times
the total of last week is expected to- !
day. as the children are better ac- ,
rpiainted with the plan, and have been
saving their old papers and magazines
tor several days, some of the schools
having <iultc an accumulation In addi- .
tion to the big amount expected to be j
brought in this morning.
SC HOOLS ASKKD TO 1IK1.I*
FOIt PROMPT t'OI,M:tTIO\
The commercial department of the
Maxwell Motor Sales Corporation will
supply ten automobiles to make the '
collections. As several hundred pounds
of loosely bundled paper occupies con
siderable space, it is probable that the
machines will have to make several 1
loads from* even the smaller schools
It is hoped, however, that all of the
paper will be collected before dark, as
it Is the aim of The Times-dispatch
to mail the check for the total to
Superintendent Chandler to-night.
It will be no mean task that faces
the collectors of the paper. The jani
tors of the schools and the larger
boys are urged to help in loading the !
machines. Snow and slush will great- |
ly interfere with the automobiles, and!
the drivers must work at top speed to
complete the work before nightfall
I'nless they are aided, they will prob
ably fail.
"ne of the biggest helps will be
neatly tied bundles. If the newspapers
and magazines are loose, it makes more
work in loading, unloading and in
weighing. The children therefore are
urged to tie lip their bundles securely
and to mark the name of the school on !
them. In order that they will not get
mixed with the collections from others.
Magazines, newspapers and miscel
laneous paper should be separated, as '
the price varies for the three classlfl- 1
cations Magazines, including old
books, are worth the most, while news- i
papers come next. The six tons sold
last week netted the schools a total
of no.vf.2.
A! TOMOIIM.I'.S Wl I.I. MA KM
IIIII'MIS A \ HOI It KAHI.ir.U
The automobiles will visit the
schools one hour earlier to-day than
they did last week as the ticcumtila- i
| tion of paper will be considerably
| larger. The Janitors of the schools i
? can expect the machines to pull up to
1 their doors before 4 o'clock at the
' latest, while they will reach many of,
; them u few minutes after 12 o'clock. i
The city has been divided Into ten '
I districts, with from three to six schools
I in each, according to their size and
, location. There ore forty-four build-j
Ings to be visited, housing about 25,000
boys and girls of all ages. It is ex
pected that an average of frr?ni live to
ten pounds will be collected bv each
! child in the schools.
1 Parents are co-operating in the
(Continued on Third Pago.)
TURN ON THEIR PURSUERS
III NORTHERN DOBRUDJl
Russians mid Bouniuuians Face
About and (ilve Battle to Teu
tonic Allied Forres.
lHOTAI I.S NOT YKT KliCKl V1CI)
On Finnt in France, British, Near
(ioiniuecoiirt and Arras, Carry Out
Successful Baids Against German
Positions.
I By Press.]
Aside from the Roumanian theater,
little fighting of moment is taking
place on any of the numerous fronts.
In the Northern Dobrudja, the Rus
sians and Roumanians have fared
about, ami are giving battle to the
Teutonic allied forces which have been
pursuing them. Just how strong the
stand the.v are making Is has not yet
been made known, the tiermau official
communication announcing it merely
saying that they have "again offered
fighting resistance."
i'etrograd reports that attacks by
the invaders near Parlita. on the left
bank of the Danube, were repulsed,
and says also that operations success
ful for the Russians and Roumanians
are being tarried out by scouting
parlies in the direction of Rlmnika
Buzdu.
On the front in France, the British,
near tJnmmecourt and Arras, have car
ried out successful raids against Oer
man trenches and bombarded other
hostile positions at tiommccourt and
near I.aos and Hulluch. The Germans,
for their part, shelled the British line
north of the Somme near Festubert
and Ypres. and south of the Somme
bombarded the French at numerous
points, the French replying energetic
ally.
Merlin reports the repulse of attacks
airainst the positions of the Teutonic
allies in the t.'erna River bend region
of Mflt'OiInnia,
In Ualicia southwest of U roily, the
Teutonic allies, after a heavy bom
bardment of Russian trenches, essayed
an infantry attack, but were forced
by the tire of the Russian guns to seek
their own trenches again. Petrograd
reports the breaking through of
barbed-wire entanglements on the
Rvstrltsa River sector by the Rus
sians. and compelling the Teutonic al
lies tliero to nee.
The Austrian* are atrnin actively
bombarding the Italian advanced posi
tion* on the Carso front of the Austro
Itallan theater.
.VITAC'l\S ||V III SSIANs |\
\ ll'VI'l I Kit \ Itnt'MA \!A
I Px AssoHntJ
HERIdN. December ''ft (via Sayville).
?Several attacks were made yesterday
bv the Russians along the Northern
Roumanian front. I he War (?fllce an
nounces. These attacks were without
success.
SOMK I'ATHOI, FlfitlTIVG
OV MAIT.IIOVIAV FRONT
I Hy Associated /'res*. 1
I'ARIS, December 20.-?The French
oflicial report on the progress of hos
tilities in Macedonia to-day r?ads:
"There Is nothing to report other
than some patrol fighting on the Mace
donian front, where the rains and the
fog continue."
A HTI I.I.Kit \ HOUIIAHDMKVr.S
ON WKSTKIIV FIIONT
RKRi.IN, Heccmber 20 t via Sayville).
--The German oflicial announcement to
day respecting the campaign on the
western front reads:
"On the Somme and the Aisne, in the
Champagne and on the east hank of
the Mouse. In Isolated sectors, there
were at times strong artillery bom
bardments and patrol activity.
"There w ere no important develop
ments on the eastern front.
"In Macedonia the artillery was niori
active at some places.1'
SENDS PERSONAL
: NOTE ON SUBJECT
I TO BELLIGERENTS
Wants Avowal of Rcspec
tive Views bv Nations
in Conflict.
MAKES NO SUGGESTION
OF TERMS OR METHODS
Declares Communication Not
Prompted by Recent Overtures
of Central Powers.
wori.n provide for fitirh
Latest Developments in Interest of
Pence Most Distinct Surprise to
AH Official Washington.
\ Rv Assoclntetl I'tpss. |
| ASIIIX(JTON, December 20.?Pros*
ident Wilson has appealed to all the
belligerents to discuss terms of peace.
Without actually proposing peace or
offer ins; mediation, the President has
sent, formal noto* to the governments
or all the warring nations suggesting
that "an early occasion be sought to
call out from the nations now at xvar
such an avowal of their respective
views as to the terms upon which the
war inik)it be concluded and the ar
rangements which would be deemed
satisfactory as u guaranty against its
renewal or the kindling of a?> similar
conflict in the future as would make It
possible frankly to compare them."
Wholly without notice and entirely
contrary to what administration of
llcials have described in his course .the
President last night dispatched notes
to all the belligerents and to all the
neutrals for their Information, sum
mai ized in the President's own words
as contained in the notes, his attitude
is as follows:
I lie President is not proposing
peace; he is not even offering media-,
lion. He Is merely proposing that
sounding** be taken, in order that tee
may learn, the neutral nations with the
( belligerents, how near the haven of
I peace may be for which all mankind
| longs with an intense and increasing
longing. He believes that the spirit
in which he speaks and the objects
which he seeks will be understood bv
all concerned, and he confidently hopes
for a response which will bring a new
light into the affairs of the world."
I.ATUMT IJK\ ICI.OP.1110NT
KKPT SliCllET FOR IIUL'ltS
This latest development in the
rapidly moving world events toward
.a discussion of peace was not per
; ml t ted to become known until to
nlght, when the notes were well on
their way to the American ambassadors
In the belligerent capitals, and prob
ably already in the hands of some of
them.
It was a most distinct surprise to
all oflicial Washington, which had been
led to believe that with the formal
transmittal of the proposals ofv the
central powers the offices of the United
States would await further moves be
tween the belligerent themselves, and
that certainly, in view of the speech
of Premier Ldoyd George and the an
nouncments in Russia. Franco ani
, Italy. further action by neutrals
would depend upon the next careful
and delicate moves in the great diplo
?' ma tic spectacle between the belliger
ents themselves.
I The whole tenor of official opinion
throughout Washington when the
President's action became known was
that it immeasurably improved the
prosji^cts for some sort of exchanges
looking toward an approach to peace
discussions between the belligerents,
without impairing the position of the
United States, should they finally be
j unable to tind a ground on which to
approach one another.
At the White House no statement
whatever uould be obtained as to
whether any of the powers had inti
mated how they would receive the note,
and there was every indication that
the same careful secrecy which pre
vented even anything whatever becom
ing known about the President's ac
tion until it had been taken would
surround any of the succeeding moves.
NOTHING To INOICATK
?11stohv-naki.vc< i:vknts
Nowhere on the surface appears any
j indication of the history-making events
which diplomatists generally are con
vinced must have transpired since the
Germanic allies brought forth their
proposals. to dispel the generally
i prevalent belief that such an action
i ?>n the part of President Wilson would
be unacceptable to the entente powers.
. British embassy officials declared
they were utterly taken by surprise,
j were wholly unable to explain It. and
i emphatic in their statement that no
I exchanges whatever had passed through
the embassy her<* as a preliminary.
I he hope of the Herman powers that
President Wilson would intercede In
some way has long been well known,
and has been conveyed in various ways
to the White House. The attitude of
the entente allies as expressed by their
statesmen, and certainly until recently,
in oftlcial advices to the American gov
ernment. has been that a peace offer
by the United States would he consid
ered almost the next thlnr to un
friendly.
All that, however, was before the
lOerman allies brought forward their
