Jsitu.
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Snow or rain to.day; to-morrow colder
and probably fair; moderate winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 38; lowest, 18.
Detailed weather, mill and marina reports on pan 13.
IT SHINES FOP ALL
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 112.
NEW YORK, THURSDAY, DECEMBER 21, 1916. vonngM, im. ty the sun rrtntmo n.id pumMng Aortan.
rlT? rPXTT 1 ''fester New York, I Elsewhere
UINEi VErtN X JsrMy Cltr aad Newark. I TWO CENTS.
WILSON TAKES FIRST STEP TO END WAR IN EUROPE;
SENDS NOTES TO ENTENTE AND TEUTONIC BELLIGERENTS;
HE INVITES BOTH SIDES TO A "COMPARISON OF VIEWS
PEACE STATED
Dr. McMnhon Says Pon
tiffs Ideas Arc Like Those
of Lloyd (jieorge.
PEACH BASED OX JUSTICE'
"Above All a Pence That In
cludes the flights of Na
tions and of Peoples.''
If tli Itovnap Catholic Church !n this
country had nn official "mouthpiece,"
which It hain't, It Is 'not too much to
ay that as likely n selection by ttome
at any for the position would be one
of the country's leading; Intellectuals,
the Itcv. Joseph II. McMahon, ph. D..
rector of the Church of Our Lady of
(.ourdes. Wherefore when the Itcv. Dr.
McMahon In the course of a lecture
he delivered to the Catholic Library As
sociation at Delmonlco's yesterday af
ternoon said without qualification that
the kind of peace rope Benedict, as !
"the head of Christendom." naked for j
was Identical with the kind of peace I
Premier David Lloyd George had de
manded in the British Parliament the
dsy before the rector's words were
listened to with rapt attention by a
distinguished audlenc.
Dr. McMahon did not fay that thr
Holy Sec was with the Entente Allies
In the matter of terms of peace or that
the Entente Allies were with Pope Bene
dict. But he did say flatly that the
Pope's Ideas .on the terinH of peace
and the terms of peaca set forth by
Lloyd George were the same.
Wins Applause of All.
There were men and women of tier-'
nun tilrlli or descent alio of wealth and
social position III the audience listening
to Dr. McMahon. But when hp had con
cluded his uddrees-un-The Church, the
fop and the War" the app'ause was
hearty from every ono present because
of thr fairness of thought on tho part of
the speaker.
"The French n. epspcrs." said Dr.
McMahon after he had talked fur some
time, about the Irreligious attitude of po
litical France before the war und the
rsvlxal of relation in military and civil
life In Franco since the war began, "at
tacked the rope because of his encycli
cal! for peace early In the war. Then
when the holy father set apart n day of
pr.ijer for peace In all the churches the
attacks were renewed. The Tope waa
'pio-Gcrman,' his antagonists said in
Frame, lie 'wanted peace on term fa
vcrablo to Gennany.'
"But the peace Benedict XV, wanted
then and wants now Is u peace founded
on Justice anj rlsjlit, above all a pence
that Includes the rights of nations and
of people. It must be and this Is
mewt significant at this particular time
n peace which, regarding the rights of
the people and the rights of nations Is
exactly the kind of peace which Premier
David Lloyd Oeorie demanded yester
day in the British Parliament. In that
pe.tce the rights of humanity are doml
rant peace terms that Include repara
tions to the outraged and a restoration
of rights to the small countries.
Sees Hope la Pair Discission.
"The Pone's pleas for arbitration must
npptal to every one. If the representa
tives of the nations could only come to
sether In a spirit of fairness, if they
rould teate hate aside when they sssem
bled and surely there Is rnough of
rlesllty left In the world to make us be
!?v that there is a sufficient number of
human beings still left on earth In all
he countries to meet In such a desired
ftPtrlt then there would result an Inter
national convocation of men of the war
r'nc countries that would bring to an
'nil this most hideous of physical evils."
Dr. McMahon In quiet tones lectured
for more then an hour, dividing his talk,
the title of the lecture Indicated, Into
'hre main topics. He spoke first gen
'rally on the worldwide attacks upon
Christianity, then specifically upon the
iml-CathollcIsm of a certain portion of
Franco and the attacks upon the Frsneh
priests now on the firing line by France's
most rabid antt-clerlcals. Finally ha
dwelt upon the opposition to Pope Bene
dict's attitude in the world war, which
has come not only from those outside the
''atliollc Church but In some cases, he
aid, from those within.
Dennes Church's AIIKade.
He began by defining the Catholic
Church's attitude toward war. So long
as a war fulfils the conditions which
Catholic morality demands, said Dr. Mc
Mahon, the church has no attitude to
ward war except to declare It a physical
evil "From war, famine, pestilence, O
Lord, deliver us," said Dr. McMahon,
'luottng a prayer of the Catholic Church.
The church, he added, even accepts that
there can be just wars.
"But there was a msn In the Scrip
ture who oversowed the wheat with
tockles and therein we have tha ex
lIs nation of wars," said tha speaker.
"God has endowed man with the awful
faculty of free will; and aa long as
man's will Is free to obey or disobey Ills
laws the wheat will be oversowed with
iock)es. That Is the answer to the
Socialist, too, or to tnose who say that
the present great conflict proves that
Christianity Is a failure.
"Do not be disturbed by such Ideas,
To the Socialist, to those who scoff at
the 'failure of Christianity,' one must
answer: 'Olve Christianity a chance; let
Christianity rule tha world, Let free
willed men elect to obey the teachings
f Christianity and ao hideous a thing
aa the great world war could not hap
pen.' "
rrlests la tha Treaehes.
The polity of Europe for a century
r mora haa not been tha polity of
Christianity, continued Dr. MoMahon.
Kuropean eeuntrlaa have steadily elimi
nated God, ha aald, and there baa baen
Ce Haste jrte-PMliv Pats,
ALLIED ENVOYS
RESENT ACTION
Reception of President's
Notes Distinctly Unfavor
able at Embassies.
MOKE HAKM THAN GOOD
Entente Diplomats Think Wll
8onScckN to Be Factor
"at An Price."
Washington, Dec. 20. President Wll-
son's "notes will do moie harm than good '
to any prospect (or peace parlejs, ac
cording to Entente diplomats. The re
ception the notes received to-night was i
distinctly unfavorable. ;
It la believed that the people In all the
Entente countries will bitterly resent thai
action despite the suggestion that the
belligerents outline what they aro fight
ing for fits In with recent statements ,
made by Entente statesmen. ,
Great Britain, France and their allies ,
are ready to' tell tne world what they
are fighting for ami when they will make
peace but they wilt neces-orlly irgard
the American noted ns en Indorsement of
Germany's proposal and destined no
matter what the President's object was
to support and reenforce the German
effort.
It Is pointed out that befnie any peace
proposal can be considered by the En- '
tente. Ureal Britain. France, ItU'ela, .
Italy and Japan, together wit!) their1
allies, must unanimously agree. They 1
aro bound by an Ironclad agreement not
to make peace separately. I'nswervlng
hostility to tho pence dej. If engendered
In any country, might tiTectlvely check
any movement for peace. And the Pre- I
Idenl's notes. It Is believed, accentuate I
th!t feeling of hostility.
I
Wilson's Prime Mutltr. ""
The prime motive whlrh Kntenie diplo
mats see In the President's mow t a
desire to flsure in peace negotiation
"t any price." They said to-night that
It looked as If the President thought
his hoped for chance of acting a medi
ator had dwindled and that h- wanted
to seize the opportunity of making him
self a factor In any peace movement, ,
President Wilson's tatements are
Judged in Entente) circles In the same j
spirit as the motive they assign to the1
note. One diplomat of the Allies sold
to:tilgh; that tho President's argument
In'rffvt was that netitrol nations could
nol Jolernt" the continuance nf the war
iid that It amounted to stating that
high, principle, Justice ami hum in rights,
for wTilch the Entente hn been flght
tng, must give way to considerations
of dollars nnd trade.
I If pointed nut that during the Aineil
can civil war a neutral league (England
and France) protested against the con
tinuance of the war on the ground that
tha resultant embargo on cotton from
the Southern States brought ruin and
starvation to thousands In British and ,
French mills who depended on this raw ;
material for their living., ,
Llacsla's Attllade. 1
"And your Lincoln replied that prln-'
clple and Justice could not be saerl-l
fleet! for cotton," this diplomat raid.
"Our reply will be that principle and
Justice cannot be sacrificed for trade." (
At tha embissles of the Entente allien
It was apparent that they felt keenly
tho President's statement that their
statesmen do not know what tliey are
fighting for and that the alma of Ger
many and the Entente in the war lire
the same. They believe that a wave of i
hostility to the American notes wilt
sweep over tClreat Britain and France
when theso lines are read. Nothing,
they add, could make a more unfortu
nate Impression on the people of these
countries.
At tha State Department, however, It
waa pointed out that careful reading of
thia portion of the note would make It
clear that the President did not mean to
pass Judgment on the alms of the re.
apective belligerents In the war. but idm-i
piy io outline inese onjecta as enunciated
by their own statesmen to their peoples.
Pre-Oermaa Interpretation.
Practically every part of the notes Is
given a pro-German Interpretation by the
Entente. They say that the President-has
allowed the German peace move to blind
his eyes to the principles of liberty ami
right which caused the Entente to rise in
arms against the menace of Prussian
militarism.
Even tho President's statement that
the United States Interests have been
"most seriously affected by the war," l
challenged In Entente circles.
"Your Interests have been affected to
the extent of enriching the nation by
billions and billions as a result of the
war and tha very thought of peace sends
the stock market tumbling down In ab
ject depression," was the purling com
ment of a diplomat In reference to this
portion of the notes.
aCASDDTAVIAy MOVE,
Peace Step la Being; Considered
HallaaaVa Aid Soagbt.
Berlin (by wireless), Deo 20. A
peace movement Is being considered by
Norway, Sweden, Denmark and Swltser
land. In which they wish the cooperation
of Holland, according to Deputy rlchaper
!- n..t.V. U.,h.m.nt ii ntinteri 111 11
despatch to the Overseas News Agency
irom iioiicruam.
Tha newa agency states:
"According to telegrams from Rotter
dam, Depu'y Sohaper of the Dutch Par
liament In a speech made at Dalfsyl an
nounced that Hwltserland und the Scan
dinavian countries ware Inclined to act
aa peaca mediators and that they wish
the cooperation of Holland, Deputy
Hchaper advocated greater activity by
Matiaasi aksss) tkla Una."
Full Text of
TT 7 ASH I iVC TON, Dec. 20. Following is the text of the
Yf notes sent by Secretary of State Laming to Great
Britain and her allies and to the Central Powers
and their allies.
The notes to the belligerents arc prefaced with this
instruction by Secretary Lansing to the American Ambas
sadors presenting them:
"The President directs me to send you the following communi
cation to be presented immediately to the Minister of Foreign Af
fairs of tho Government to which you are accredited."
The texts of the notes themselves then run identictlly thus:
"The President of the United States has instructed mo to sug
gest to the (here is inserted a designation of the Government ad
dressed) a course of action with regard to the present war which he
hopes that the Government will take under consideration as sug
gested in the most friendly spirit and as coming not only from a
friend but also as coming from the representative of a neutral nation
whose concern for its early conclusion arises out of a manifest ncccs-
sity to determine how best to safeguard those interests if the war is ,
to continue." ,
At this point the texts vary. In the note to the Central Powers
this paragraph follows next: '
"Tho suggestion which 1 am instructed to make the President
has long had it in mind to offer, tie is somewhat embarrassed to
offer it at this particular time, because it may now seem to have been
prompted by a desire to play a part in connection with the recent
overtures of the Central Powers. It has in fact been in no way sug
gested by them in its origin nnd the President would have delayed
offering it until those overtures had been independently answered
but for the fact that it also concerns the question of peace and may
best be considered in connection with other proposals which have the
same end in view. The President can only beg that his suggestion
be considered entirely on its own merits and as if it had been made
in other circumstances."
In the note to the Entente Allies the following paragraph takes the
place of the one just quoted.
"The suggestion which I am instructed to make the President
lias long had it in mind to offer. He is somewhat embarrassed to
offer it at this particular time, because it may now seem to have been
prompted by the recent overtures of the Central Power. It is in
fact in no way associated with them in its origin and the President
would have delayed offering it until those overtures had been an
swered but for the fact that it also concerns the, question of peace
""'and may best be considered in connection with other proposals which
have the same end in view. The President can only beg that his
suggestion be considered entirely on its own merits and as if it had
been made in other circumstances."
Then all the notes proceed identically as follows:
"The President suggests that an early occasion be sought to cull
out from all the nations now at war such nn avowal of their respec
tive views as to the terms upon which the war might be concluded
and the arrangements which would be deemed satisfactory as a
guaranty against its renewal or the kindling of any similar conflict
in the future ns would make it possible f rnnkly to compare them.
"He is indifferent as to the means taken to accomplish this. He
would be happy himself to serve or even to take the initiative in its
accomplishment in any way that might prove acceptablo, but he has
no desire to determine the method or the instrumentality. One way
will be as acceptable to him as another, if only the great object he
has in mind be attained.
"He takes the liberty of calling attention to the fact that the
objects which the statesmen of the belligerents on both sides have
in mind in this war are virtually the same, as stated in general terms
to their own people and to the world. Each side desires to make the
rights and privileges of weak peoples and small States as secure
against aggression or denial in the future as the rights and privileges
of the great and powerful States now nt war.
"Each wishes itself to be made secure in the future, along with
all other nations and peoples, against the recurrence of wars like tlii.i
and against aggression of selfish interference of any kind. Each
DEATH DECREED FOR
20 BELGIANS; 11 SHOT
Another Court-martial Is Be
Kim to Try 192 on Charge
of Espionage.
Amsterdam, via Iondon, Dec. 20, Of
twenty Uelglans who had been sentenced
in death bv a German court-martial
at Ilasselt eleven were shot last Sat-I
urdiy, says the f.ea .Vouvrlfej of Maas
tricht. Korty-four other persons wer.e
ninlrnccd to terms of penal servitude
and sixty-four were ordered deported
to Germany.
The newspaper adds that another
court-martial wus legun to hear the
cases of l'J2 Uelglans charged with
splonage.
TI.a f - 1 1 .n.rMnnn.l.nl ,1 , A . .1
atrntam fVlrVrae asserts that many 1
cltlBvns of Ghent who were deported to
the Homine front wero killed or very
seriously wounded recently by Krench
machine guns, Tho correspondent adds
that 1,000 ntou from Ghent aro com
pelled to wor'i on that front and that
4,000 more aro about to be tent there.
l.r.n .Voiueloi rays a large number of
young penplo from villages In the Ilcl
glan province of Luxemburg have been
deported from tho commune of Virion,
among them children between tho ages
of 13 and IS, The correspondent adds
that large numbers of workmen werei.ii, .... , , . , ,
deported Friday and Saturday from the
Grand Duchy of Luxemburg, and that 1
at Alx-la-Chapelle son Uelglans aro re- i
ported to ue imprisoned.
l'ls 1.17 Miles la H." Mlnwtes.
Pnii.AiiKi.rniA, Dec. 20. Sergt. Will
iam Ocker, an army aviator, who piloted
Congressman-elect E, D. Illakesly of
Franklin, Pa., to the capital from this
city on November 2f, flew from Wash
ington to the Philadelphia Navy Yard
to-day. Ocker said he mada the trip of
137 miles, railroad distance, In one hour
and twen-ltve minutes,
ItKWKV'n KTKatlMZKU tlMATR Jl'ICK.
sf sua nourishing for children a Invalids,
its ruttoo m., N, i. I'm im curt.
vlV.
President Wilson's Notes to
WILSON'S NOTES LIKE T. R.'S
IN RUSSO-JAPANESE WAR
V.siu.NiiTox, Dec. 30. The notes of
President Wllron to the belligerent
Powers and the notes of President
Roosevelt to J'ussla and Japan which led
to the Portsmouth peace conference are
strikingly similar in their general terms.
President Hoorevelt's were much
shorter, but tho appeal they olced bears
lr,l!"" anaIo- ot President
Wilson.
The latter Is represented as be.
Ilevlng
that the spirit In which lie
speaks and the objects which he Keeks ( 1
will be unde-rlond by all 'concerned, nnd1 of their reneetlo views."
he confidently hopej for a response which 11 ' suggfsted to-day that the clr
wlll bring now light Into the affairs of i inuslances under which the two peace
II. e world,
President lloosevelt In the note of
Juno K. 1905, Is represented as having th-
sole puiposc "to bring about it meeting
whteh '"""'hole elvlllged world will pray
''I""". 11 Peace." President ltooo-
vel' did not lay stress on tho direct Inter,
est of neutral natlo:i. as they wore fnr
less affected by the Ittisso-Japanese war
than by the present conflict.
CHANCELLOR HAB FULL POWEH.
Threatftarrt to Resign I'nless
llelchstsur Lenders Consented.
London, Dec. 10, A despatch from
, . , . " "
c'lvel ll"re from Brln l Or. von
Bethmsnn-llollweg. the German Imperial
Chancellor, In a secret conference with
the party leaders preceding Ills an -
noiincement of Gcrmani's peace offer
peace
was given full powers to conduct peace
negotiations without further consulta
tion even with the party leaders.
"The Chancellor," says the despatch,
"refused point blank to give the leaders
his peaca terms. When the leaders oh.
Jected to granting the Chancellor's de
mands for full powers to negotiate Dr,
von Je(hmann-Hoteg countered with
the statement that lie would rcalaa
forthwith ualses bis demands ware net.
would be jealous of the formation of any more rival leagues to pre
serve an uncertain balance of power amidst multiplying suspicions,
but each in ready to consider the formation of a league of nations to
insure peace and justice throughout the world.
"Before that final step can be taken, however, each deems it
necessary first to settle the issues of the present war upon terms
which will certainly safeguard the independence, the territorial in
tegrity and the political and commercial freedom of the nations in
volved. "In the measures to be taken to secure the future peace of the
world the people and Government of the United States ar as vitally
and ns directly interested as the Governments now at war. Their
interest, moreover, in the means to be adopted to relieve the smaller
and weaker peoples of the world of the peril of wrong and violence
is as quick and ardent as that of any other people or Government.
"They stand ready, and even eager, to cooperate in the accom
plishment of these ends when the war is over with every influence
and resource at their command. But the war must Jlrst be concluded.
"Tho terms upon which it is to be concluded they are not at
liberty to suggest, but the Presidont does feel that it is his right and
his duty to point ou. thoir intimate interest in its conclusion lest it
should presently be too late to accomplish the greater things which
lie beyond its conclusion, lest the situation of neutral nations, now
exceedingly hard to endure, be rendered altogether intolerable, and
lest, more than all, an injury be done civilization itself which can
never be atoned for or repaired.
"The Preside!, therefore, feals altogether justified in suggest
ing an immediate opportunity for a comparison of views as to the
terms which must precede those ultimate arrangements for the peace
of the 'world, which all desire and in which the neutral nations as
well as those at war are ready to play their full responsible part.
"If the contest must continue to proceed toward undefined ends
by slow attrition until the one group of belligerents or the other is
exhausted, if million after million of human lives must continue to
be offered up until on the one side or the other there are no more to
offer, if resentments must be kindled that can never cool and despairs
engendered from which there can be no recovery, hopes of peace and
of the willing concert of free peoples will be rendered vain and idle.
"The life of the entire world has been profoundly affected.
Every part of the great family of mankind haa felt the burden and
terror of this unprecedented contest of arms. No nation in the civil
ized world can be said in truth to stand outside its influence or to be
safe against its disturbing effects, and yet the concrete objects for
which it is being waged have never been definitely stated.
"The leaders of the several belligerents have, as has been said,
stated those objects in general terms. But, stated in general terms,
they seem the same on both sides. Never yet have the authoritative
spokesmen of either side avowed the precise objects which would if
attained satisfy them and their people that the war had been fought
out. The world has been left to conjecture what definitive results,
what actual exchange of guarantees, what political or territorial
changes or readjustments, what stage of military success, even,
would bring the war to an end.
"It may be that peace is nearer than we know, that the terms
which the belligerents on the one side and on the other would deem
it necessary to insist upon are not so irreconcilable as some have
feared, that an interchange of views would clear the way nt least for
conference and make the permanent concord of the nations a hope of
the immediate future, a concert of nations immediately practicable.
"The President is not proposing peace; he is not even offering
mediation. He is merely proposing that soundings be taken in order
that we may learn, the neutral nations with tho belligerent, how
near the haven of peace may be for which all mankind longs with uu
intense nnd increasing longing. He believes that the spirit in which
he speaks and the objects which he seeks will be understood by all
concerned, and he confidently hopes for a response which will
bring a new light into the affairs of the world.
"LANSING."
The note to the Kntente croup will be delivered to (irent Britain.
France, Italy, Japan, Ilussla, Belgium, Montenegro, Portugal, Itumanlu
and Set bin. That to the Central allies will be delivered to Germany,
Aubtrla-liuncHry, Turkey and IlulKnrla.
The notes are bclnc delivered to all neutral Governments for their
Information.
Ills note, Imwexti', began with the
Matcmtnt "The President feels that
the time has come when In the Interest i
of all mankind he must eudtavor to sen
It It is unt possible to bring to an end 1
the terilble and lamentable conflict now
being waged."
President Wilson emphasises the di
rect Interest of the United States In the
present situation and In negotiations for
f,r from Mr. ,;0PeVelfs
permanent peace. In this his notes dlf-
In the meth-
ods proposed there Is also a difference.
I President lloosevelt suggested a run-
lereme ueiwcen ino neiiigcmn ; rresi-
i'n'i'sais wero mann are somewnat sum
lar Japan had achieved striking mill-1
tary successes, as Germany has done In
the present conflict. The Itusso-Jap-1
iiim'sc altuulinii did not appear to he any
mule favorable for peace than the Euro.
pcuil situation. Nevertheless by force of
public opinion In large in asuro Presi
dent I'ousevelt succeeded, nnd It Is as
sumed In diplomatic circles that Presi
dent Wilson hopes to succeed,
U. S. MAY SIFT NEWS LEAK.
Wants to Knurr llmv Tickers Got
Tip nn Peace Move.
Washington, Dec, 20. An iuvestlga
tlon may be made Into how the ne'as
that the President contemplated some
Important move with respect to the lie!
1 llaerent nations leaked out in Wall
1 Utreet and was published by the tickers
1 ""cl,no;
Kirmrp, villi! I was niauo ItV Olll-
clals tieie tu guard the teoret. It was
represented by an olllclal of the Admin
istration' that the reason for thlH.was
fear that premature publication might
affect the stock market. Hut the chief
reason, It is understood, waa the desire
to imprers all belligerent Governments
with the fart that diplomatic, secrets
could le safely kept in Washington and
that should coiitldeutial overtures be
made by any or the Powers there was
no danger of a leak.
Belligerents
BRITAIN TO BE DIVIDED
; INTO FARMING PLOTS
All Idle Land Will lie I xmI to
Solve the Food
Problem.
London, Dee. 20. The step which
tho Government intends to take to In-
crease production of foodstuff, wlthln
tho kingdom was explained to ; meet -
lug nf iigrlculturUls to-day by Ilowlaud
E. Prothero, President of the Hoard nf
,,., . .,
Agrlctiltuic. He said that In the llrst
place It was Intended to fix the con
tract price for homrgmwn wheat ut !0
shillings, and that similar action would
10 aKfn ,'" ram to potatoes, oats nn,l
"arley. the prices fur which are now
'i(cr consideration,
i ruivevs are now being earned out
to ascertain the land at present Idlo or
liiHutllclcntly cultivated and to have It
cultivated to the fulleM extent.
It was unnonncol that In ery county
an agricultural committee would be
mpplled with lists of the products most
essential and would be told what they
were expected to grow. These com
mittees would havs the power to acquire
land by compulsion If necessary nnd u
system of credit would bo established,
"We are a beleagueied city," said .Mr.
Prothero, "and must uct In the fullest
consciousness of that fact
Aecordlnr to some nf ilia n
two davs ?xnerle ce
..?....?' r..A." "fA,",. rl f"?1'
control measure, which
iil.no.nn, -mill 11-KHIUies Hie
number and nature of course served in
i an'1 restaurants, has been suf-
n"01"1. tu prove It futile. They say Unit
not only has It failed to check consumn
tlon but that In many Instances It has
Inn eased it, The pa pel s urge food
tickets or a tax on hotels ami rcstau
taut bills as In Paris.
a.ailll of .Nobility War Victims.
London. Dec. 20. The new Atmnnnch
dp Oofno's list of nobility fallen In the
war Includes 258 counts, 667 barons and
l,4i lesser nobility.
.'i"EAT NUWfl WATftM.
JOe. the tass of six glass stoppsnd boltlss.
Bt't
Ambassador Bernstorff Declares Ho
Is Now Perfectly Convinced. That
There Will Be a Conference as
Germany
APPEAL SENT MONDAY NIGHT
CONGRESS NOT IN SECRET
President Disclaims Proposing Peace or Even
Offering Mediation, but Gives a Warning
in Behalf of Neutrals
WASHINGTON, Dec. 20. President Wilson has made,
definite move toward ending the world war. He has despatched
notes to all the belligerents suggesting that they exchange
views on possible peace terms and guarantees for the future.
The notes, signed by Secretary Lansing, were sent Monday
night, before Lloyd George, the British Prime Minister, had
made his speech in the House of Commons. The President
says they are in no way associated with the peace overtures
of the Central Powers. But in substance they are a complete
indorsement of the German proposal to discuss peace, and the
President virtually asks for an exchange of views which would
"clear the way for at least a conference."
Count von Bernstorff, the German Ambassador, stated to-night offi
cially: "Now I am perfectly convinced that we will have a conference."
Sir Cecil Spring-Rice, the British Ambassador, is silent, us are tho
other Entente diplomats. The President's action has come as a shock and
disappointment to Entente diplomacy. It has realized the most sanguine
hopes of the diplomats of Germany and her allies.
Great Secrecy Increases Senaation.
The sensation it caused In official
Washington was accentuated by the
great secrecy which haa shrouded It
for three Uuyn, together with deliberate
efforts nt the White House and at the
State Department to lull tha public
and the prctiH Into the belief that no
such move was contemplated.
In Congressional circles opinion Is
sharply divided, with the Presidents
political supporters Klvlnp unqualified
indorsement to the uctlon and hinting
that tho President must have definite
Information that tho notes will ac
complish practical results.
President Wilson, It was learned to-
I night, has had in mind for live weeks
the action which ho has Just taken. It
Is said that he even went so far ns
to make n ioiikIi outline nf the
thought that was in his mind, nnd part
of thin appears in the noten Juki des
patched, Tim fact that the election
was out of the way and the submarine
menace was looming up again are
thiHiRht to hnvo been tho reasons for
the President taking up the pence ven
ture. lie had not definitely made up his
mind Jiut when to make the move at the
I time the German peace proposal came.
Tins Drought mm to tile decision that
the tlmo was rlpo for the action he had
been contemplating.
Attitude nf the I'nrrers t'nknonn.
At the White House no statement
whatever could be obtained as to whether
any of the Powers oven had Intimated
luiw they would receive the note. No-
where on the surface appear any Imll-
canon or tne nistury muKins; events
which diplomatists generally are con
vlnced must have transpired since the
Cciman nlllea hrouxht forth their pro
posal to dispel the generally prevalent
belief that mich an action on the prut of
President Wilson would be unacceptable
to tho Entente Powers.
The attitude of the Entente Allies as
expressed by their statesmen and cer
tainly until recently In official advices
to tho American Government has been
that a peace offer by the United States
would bo considered almost the next
thinff to unfrlpndlv.
Diplomatists consider It incredible
1 ,1,nt tho President would bring forward
, r1ha;;ro;aoacueVlt,,wS,,rdn,rr.
1 ,-eivn respectful consideration at tha
' hands of ull the belligerents and above
' )"M. 'Y" Prejudice the position of
the United States as a possible mediator.
,
Discussed at f'ablnet Meeting.
It is understood that discussion of
whether or not the notes should be sent
were responsible for the agitated Cabinet
meeting last Friday, which lasted longer
than any other t'jblnet session of the
year. The President had not qultn mads
up his mind even then. All the members
nf tho Cabinet were sworn to secrecy.
No membrr nf the Senate Foreign llela
tlons Committee was taken Into the
President's confidence.
At one si .r In the notes the President
virtually sTer his set vices as mediator,
stating tlr.l "he would be happy himself
to serve or even to take the Initiative In
Its accomplishment (pence negotiations)
In any way that might prove acceptable."
Later the notes say: "The President is
I not proposing peace; he Is not even of-
I ferlug mediation, Iln Is merely propos
"IK 'uu"""l " laaen ill orot;-
wp "my WnTn- iUr neu,r' n"0"
1 wlU the belligerent, how near the haen
iiik in.ii suiiniuugs ne iBKcn III
, ,.,.. Via fnr a.hlM. .11....... 1,1... I
I longs with nn Intense and Increasing
' longing."
, Apparently the only explanation whlrh
i Is given of the enundlngs proposed to b
taken Is contained In that naKsaae i '
the note which states that "nn excham.-.
nf views would clear the way at least
for conferf nco and make the petmauent
concord of the nations u hops of the im
mediate future, a concert of nations im
mediately practicable."
' The President bases his plea for an
end of the war on the tiroad ground of
humanity and the fear that continuance
of war will do damage to civilisation
whleh cannot be repaired,
Tha presldi nt'a referrnce to tha situa
tion ot the neutrals aa Wag now "fx-
Suggested
cecdlngly hard to endure" and lilch
by a continuance of the war may be
"rendered altogether Intolerable." Is re
garded here as having deep. significance.
It would seem to Imply that he Is of the
opinion that It the war kcoiu up all
the neutrals may be drawn In through
force of circumstances.
Interest centres on the probable ef
fect which the President's action will
have toward encouraging pca-co negotia
tions. In both Entente and German
circles the eloqurnco of the lteaident's
appeal has made u profound Impression.
Every lino of the note bristles with deep
diplomatic! slgiilflcancc. Each para
graph is regarded us outlining not only
how the United States Hands with ro
spect to present conditions caueed by
the war, but ns indicating how this
Government may stund If the war con
tinues. Want Peai-r Guaranteed,
The President takes It fur granted
that peire will he established along
lines which make the rights nnd privi
leges of weak peoples secure against
aggrewlnn. which guarantee ngnlm-i the
iccurrencii of ware; llko this, which do
away with tho formation of rival leagues
to piesmo an uncertain balance of
power uii.l which Imply the formation
of u league of nations "to insure peace
and Justlco throughout tho world."
The United Slates Government stands
ready to cooperate In this league to
enforco peace, tho President states, lit
this respect he reiterates his lews mads
known In a speech last May when he in
dorsed that Idea.
An Important paragraph In the note
Which attracted Immediate: attention In
diplomatic circles wns the Mat.-ment
that the Interests of the I'nltcd States
ncuirai nation liav been tiio!t serl-
uly affected by tho war and that Its
concern for Its early conclusion arises
?ul , u manifest necessity to determine
;," enirwirn ineao Interests
if the war Is to continue,'
Tlilu lu 1,.. - .
hcnciaiiy rt-Kanieu a a warn
ing that this Government may han to
nko measures for Its own protection If
i ILC?".,lrt. rafM mucl1 l0,"f,'r- 1 l be.
nf.n1 i""!i w,,al ,no ''"'"Ident has In
mind Is ho conservation of American
food supplies for home use. now urgently
demanded by many In Congress, and re
striction of the aid which this country
hai heretofore extended to the bclllger-
Jtepresentatlnn of uirals.
Count von llernstnrff recants tha
Prldenfa request as virtual' Identical
with the suggestions mado In tl . ro.
posal of the Central Powers. iVlV.
lleves the Governments of u,n Central
Powers will welcome the notes and in
"ft-"' 'Way. retting torn, their
entire willingness to meet the President
suggestion. 'Hie Idea of n conferenc
will be encouraged and Intimation will
be advanced that the United States and
other neutral nations whoso interests
are Involved should be represented at thu
conference.
The Governments of the Central Pow
er. wl l outline In a general way th
principles for which they have been light
Ing and will Indicate a basis by which
peace exchanges might be initiated. It
will be urged, however, that a confei
ence Is necessary before definite peace
term referring to territorial and other
Involved questions are outlined. There
are fourteen nations involved In the war,
It Is pointed out, and the Intricate ques
tions Involving each could hardly bn
settled offhand.
Count von Bernstorff mads It clear
to-night that what he has said concern.
Ing tho advantages of a conference, the
wllllngnesa of Germany to consider dis
armament, and th propnal for a league
to enforce peace, has been said by him
with the full authorization of the Im
nerlal German Foreign Office. His state
ments have represented the authorised
tlews of Germany on all the Important
subjects he has discussed and hava not
ncen merely in personal ideas concern
ing the matter.
DEMOCRATS APPROVE.
tlepwbllraa Senator Iloahttwl
Aaoal an K.eTrctltr Itrsall.
Washington, Dec. 20 comment nn
the President's peace move was enthlis -astli:
on the part of the Democratic! Sen-
atnts, most of whom appeared to fee
aat tha Praildent hai Information '
