lead, $7.627.75; 6p0ter, $10.00; cop- - M- V Z. V T T WW WEATHER -Utah: Increasing , j
I n Kn-so rn X - ' Cloudiness Tonight and Friday With 3, j
- per, S30.5032.50. v; fj ' ifnL Snow, Colder Tonight; Warmer Fr. 1 H
. , FEARLESS. INDEPENDENT. PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER , '
1 Forty-Slxth Year-No. 315. Price Five Cents. ' ' OGDEN CITY, UTAH, THURSDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 21, 1916. Entered as Second-Class Matter at the Postofflce, Ogden, Utah I, j
United States in Danger of War .
I Forces President to Take Action
President Wilson Asks I
i All Belligerents to
I State Their Attitude
I! Situation of Neutrals Becoming Increasingly Critical United States Near
j i ing Verge of War and Feels Entitled to Know What Each Hostile Nation
Seeks in Order tojlegulate Future Conduct of This Country.
Washington, Dec. 21. Secretary Lansing, in a state
ment today explaining the sending of President Wilson's notes
to the belligerents declared it was because the situation for neu
' trals was becoming increasingly critical and the United States
, itself was being drawn nearer the verge of war.
Secretary Lansing today authorized the following state
ment: "The reasons for the sending of the note were as "fol
lows :
"It isn't our material interest we had in mind when the
note was sent, but more and more our own rights are becom
i ing involved by the belligerents on both sides, so that the situa
j tion is becoming increasingly critical.
I "I mean by that we are drawing nearer the verge of war
j ourselves and therefore we are entitled to know exactly what
j each belligerent seeks in order that we may regulate our con
i duct in the future.
: "No nation has been sounded. No consideration of the
i German overtures, or of the speech of Lloyd-George, was
taken into account in the formulation of the document. The
only thing the overtures did was to delay it a few days. It was
not decided to send it until Monday. Of course, the difficul-
ties that face the president were, that it might be construed
! as a movement toward peace and in aid of the German over-
hires." He specifically denies that that was the fact in the
i document itself."
Secretary Lansing further said:
j "The sending of this note will indicate the" possibility of
j our being forced into the war. That possibility ought to serve
as a restraining and sobering force safeguarding American
rights. It may serve also to force an earlier conclusion of the
war. Neither the president nor myself regard this note as a
peace note; it is merely an effort to get the belligerents to de
j fine "the end for which they are fighting."
London, Dec. 21:51 a. m. The suggestion of the United
States for an exchange of views among the belligerents has
been received at the foreign office and is now under con-
sideration, pending which no statement will be made.
I i .
1 1 Washington, Dec. 2-1. Secretary
I -; Lansing late- today issued a state-
I J ment amplifying and qualifying the
I , one he made this morning regarding
I i the president's notes to the belliger-
I ents, because, he said, ho feared some
I incorrect inferences were being
I ) drawn from his first uttrance.
I ; Washington, Dec. 21. The danger
I j of the United States itself being
I 'i drawn into the war, by reason of its
I increasingly critical position ns a neu
I tral, wan one of the interesting con.
I siderations in President Wilson's dis-
I patch of notes to all the belligerents
I i urging them to dismuss peace terms.
I ' Secretary Lansing today author-
I j ized the statement that the
I i material rights of the United States
I ; had not been the paramount consid-
I ; eration. America's rights, he said,
I ! were being more nnd more involved
I '; by the belligerents and as the United
I ! States was "drawing nearer the verge
I of war," it was entitled to know ex-
I, ' actly what each belligerent seeks "In
I order that we may regulate our con
I ' duct in the future."
I j President Makes No Comment.
I At the Whlto House no effort was
I made to lessen the importance of
I Secretary Lansing's statement, Presi
I 5 dent Wilson -would make no comment.
I "i President Wilson himself on soveral
I occasions has pointed out ,the danger
I j of the United States becoming In.
I i volved in tho war. Bdcause of viola
I 1 tlons of American rights, he has felt
I that the United States had a very dif
I j flcult role to fill.
I Frequent Warnings to U. S.
I '' Last February, whllo touring tho
I t middle west in favor of preparedness
I J and again during the last campaign,
I i tho president touched on that fea.
I I tUJn a speech at Pittsburg last Jan-
I ? uary he said:
I "When vou knojw that there are
I I combustlbfo materials in the life of
I the world and in your own national
I life and that the sky is full of float.
I ine sparks from a great conflagration.
I are you going to sit down and say it
I j will be time when tho fire begins.
I to do something about it? I do not
II believe that the fire is going to be
W gin, but I would be sure of it, if we
Wfc wore ready for the fire.
If f "I can't como as your responsible
II. servant and tell you this, that we do
1)1 not control the fire. We are under
r , the influences of it but we are not
li at the sources of it. Wo are whero
Ml it at any time may affect us and
If &S& 9 caao1 &jx its iprewia
1
progress."
Whole World Afire.
In a statement at Cleveland, Ohio,
the president declared:
"Two-thirds' of the world are at
war. It is not merely an European
struggle; nations in tho Orient have
become involved as well as nations
in the west and everywhere there
seems to be creeping upon the na
tions disengaged the spirit and the
threat of war. All the world outside
of America is on fire."
Speech In Milwaukee.
In a speech at Milwaukee, after
pointing out the development of the
war and saying his object was to
maintain peace, the president added:
"So far I have done so and I pledge
you my word that, God helping me.
I will if it is possible." He added
that the people of the nation had
bidden him' see that nothing Btained
the honor of the United States.
"Therefore there may at any moment
come a time when I cannot preserve
both the honor and peace of tho
United States," ho went on.
In one of his campaign speeches,
the president declarod that the pres
ent was the last great war in which
tho United States could remain neu
tral. He said on that occasion that
the Interests of the world were so
drawn together that It was difficult
for any one of tho nations to remain
neutral when the others were at war.
Shortly after 2 o'clock this after
noon President Wilson sent for Secre
tary Lansing and the head of tho
stato department went to the White
House for a conference.
President Relies on Public Opinion.
President Wilson Is rolylng upon
public opinion In other neutral na
tions to add force to his efforts to
clarify the situation. While the
American government acted entirely
on its own responsibility, tho presi
dent feels other neutral natlonB for
economic reasons, are vitally Interest
ed In the outcome.
It was stated authoritatively today
that the president acted without any
assurances that his move would bo
favorably received by the entente al
lies. H.e took the position, it was
said, however, that his note calls for
replies and though even unfavorable
the responses would tend to make
clearer the objects of the belligerents
' and establish some common ground.
Wilson Is Hopeful.
There is every indication that Pres-
ident Wilson is hopeful of the outlook
iland. h believes the yrt htm- ha
opened for negotiations. What steps
he takes in the future depend entire
ly upon the nature of the responses
from the belligerents.
The president already has made
clear that while the American govern
ment has no interest on. which
grounds peace is made between the
belligerents themselves, it has every
profound interest in bringing about
an agreement for maintaining peace
in the future.
Washington, Dec. 21. In Informal
notes to all the belligerents, President
Wilson, without proposing peace or of
fering mediation, has appealed to them
to discuss terms which may end the
war.
The president's notes had been prac
tically forty-eight hours on their way
today and officials believed they had
reached all the foreign capitals. All of
ficial Washington Is listening with the
keenes.t expectations to any indications
of how the notes will be received.
Diplomats think it Is incredible that
President Wilson should have taken
his action withput some belief that it
woulcj not be flatly rejected without
consideration by the entente allies.
The wish and hope of the German al
lies that he take some such step had
long been well known and there is no
doubt of the manner of its reception
among thorn.
Deeper Meaning of Note. ,
Officials and diplomats here analyz
ed the president's note to find" some
thing deeper than an appeal for con
sideration of peace terms. They see
that thepresident in acting was also
considering what would have to be the
course of tho United States to con
serve' its interests as a neutral If the
war Is to continue.
Coupled with the president's recent
declaration that the position of neu
trals was becoming intolerable, they
attach jmuch significance to his state
ment. in the note that his suggestion
comes from a neutral whose Interests
have been most seriously affected by
the war, "and whose concern for its
early conclusion arises out of a mani
fest necessity to determine how best
.to safeguard those Interests If the war
Is to continue."
Germans Are Hopeful.
In German interests the conviction
that the president's action would sure
ly lead to Borne sort of a consideration
of peace terms was expressed In the
following authorized statement by
Count von Bernstorff, the German am
bassador: "Now I am perfectly convinced that
there will bo a conference."
Despite the fact that President Wil
son's notes slate specifically and un
reservedly that he "is not proposing
peace; he Is not even offering media
tion," they are regarded here as' of
such a nature as will compel all bel
ligerents to make more of a reply than
a more acknowledgment of receipt.
British Embassy Surprised.
British embassy officials made no at
tempt to conceal their surprise at the
president's action. They were not
alone, however, for all official Wash
ington had been led by officials to be
lieve that tho president in transmit
ting the German peace proposals with
out comment had taken all the action
that was to bo expected from the Unit
ed States for some time to come, un
less there was some unforseon devel
opment in world affairs. The secrecy
with which the preparation of the
notes and their dispatch were Bur
rounded was complete and nothing
was known about them until they were
well on their way to the belligerent
capitals.
Proposal of United States.
The definite proposal of the United
States for "a league of nations to In
sure peace and justice throughout tho
world" is interpreted as a step which,
If carried through, would mean the
abandonment of theory of "splendid
Isolation," which Washington be
queathed to tho country. Significance
is attached to the fact that the presi
dent uses the word "Insure," rather
than "onforcc," as Indicating that he
has not committed himself to any one
program to accomplish that end, but
that ho Is open to whatever sugges-.
tlonB may seem bost to the other world
nations.
President's Official Proposal.
Repeated effortB have been niado to
enlist the American government in
some sort of international agreement
Involving responsibility but always the
answer has been that tho United
Spates would stand alone. Soveral
months ago President Wilson spoke
earnestly before the League to Enforce
Peace of his hope that tho United
States would Join in some new inter
national arrangements, but not until
proposal officially to the nations of the
world.
It is thought here that along these
lines PresidentWilson's note will find
Its "most ready reception abroad, for
all parties have indicated their belief
that the war will have been in vain
unless from it come guarantees against
fts repetition. Former Foreign Minis
ter Sir Edward Grey for England, Pre
mier Briand for France and Chancel
lor Bethmann-Hollweg for Germany
have all committed their nations to
some sort of ' international reorganiza
tion to secure the ends laid down in
the president's note and the official of
fers of the central powers, together
with Lloyd-George's speech in reply,
have accentuated that purpose. As
yet, however, the actual procedure,
which may be adopted appears uncer
tain. Germany apparently has given
up her stubborn opposition to disarma
ment which formerly split the second
Hague conference. No official state
ment haa come from either England
or France on thTs subject in the pres
ent circumstances. It was England,
however, at The Hague conference,
seconded by France and the United
States, that insisted on stating Its view
In favor of disarmament.
Deep Interest In Belligerent Reply.
Deepest interest centered today in
the probably time and form of the
belligerents' reply. It Is assumed that
the members of each group of allies
will consult one another and agree
on a uniform statement of views, but
whether that statement will be joint,
identical or different In each case la
not known. The solidarity, which has
been so strikingly shown both by the
Central Powers' identic proposals and
teh allies practically simultaneous
response,' is expected to be continued
here. It is thought also that some
time may elapse before the different
group can settle down to an actual
agreement on terms to be presented,
in case it is decided to heed the
president's request by going into them
fully.
Meanwhile, the allied entente's re.
sponse to the Central Powers' propos
als are expected almost any time for
transmission Uirougb this country to
their various destination
Wilson Flea Surprise.
Washington, Dec. 21. Surprise was
apparent among diplomatic officials
in Washington today over President
Wilson's plea to European belllger
ents to discuss peace terms.
Publication today of the note fin
ished on Monday and dispatched on
Tuesday to diplomatic representatives
abroad gave most officials the first
notice that such a step was even con
templated at tris time. Opinion here
Inclined toward the view that the
action would give strong encourage
ment to some sort of exchanges which
might result in discussion of definite
peace terms between the belllger
ents. It was believed, further, that,
since the president seeks only a clari
fication of peace views and does not
offer mediation, the United States
will not be placed in an embarrassing
position if the European nations
should be unable finally to develop
a basis on which to approach each
other.
Officials of tho British embassy de
clared they were wholly unable to ex
plain the action.
Count von Bernstorff, the German
ambassador, said:
"Now, I am perfectly convinced that
there will be a conference."
He may confer with Secretary Lan
sing today.
Counvon Bernstorff, the German,
ambassador, conferred with Secretary
Lansing today and It was understood
the secretary explained President
Wilson's action in addressing the bel
ligerents. Dutch Peace Resolution.
The Hague, via London, Dec 21,
6:15 a. m. The peaco resolution
adopted by The Netherlands anti-war
council, and which has been sent to
all the belligerent 'governments, de
clares that the chief war aim of all
the fighting naUons being apparently
a wish to protect themselves and the
rest of the world against future wars,
an understanding is not wholly impos
sible. It calls attention to the fact
that tho leading statesmen of Brit
ain, France and Germany have re
peatedly avowed a willingness to join
an international peaco league and
that thus a safeguard is obtainable
that right, instead of might, may gov
ern international relations In tho fu
ture and Europe be delivered from
militarism.
"We besoech the belligerent gov
ernments and pooplos," the resolution
says, "to make at least an endeavor
to" discover whether an agreement Is
possible now with a view to tho es
tablishment of a just and durable
peaco and a free Europe."
The meeting of the council at which
the resolution was adopted was at
tended by many members of parlia
ment, university professors and rep
resentatives of peaco organizations.
00
CARRANZA GARRISON
IS ANNIHILATED
Laredo, Texas. Dec. 21. Fifty con
stitutionalist so.ldlerfl, constituting a
garrison at Bocas near San Luis Po
tosi, were attacked by Villa follow
ers Sunday and completely annihilat
ed, according to reliable information
reaching the border today. Inhabit
ants of San Luis Potosl are panic
stricken as a result of numerous Villa
attacks, arrivals a ay,
STOCK MARKET
TRADWllOUS
Ticker Almost Uselessly Be
hind in Recording Closing
Transactions Steel
Drops to 100 7-8.
New York, Dec. 21. President Wil
son's communication to the warring
powers and the subsequent comment
upon it by Secretary Lansing were
made the occasion of another tre
mendous liquidating movement in the
stock market today, which far exceed
ed in scope and activity any session
of the past ten days.
Special stocks, notably those re
garded as war issues, broke 4 to 13
points during a wild opening, with de
clines of 1 to 3 points between sales.
There was a quick rally but this gave
way to alternate declines and ad
vances during the forenoon culminat
ing after the noon hour in another
sweeping downward movement which
followed soon upon the publication of
Secretary Lansing's statement.
Tho latter break was marked for
the first time since the recent period
of liquidation began by heavy weak
ness in rails. Despite the declaration
of an extra two per cent dividend by
Union Pacific, that stock showed an
extreme loss of 5 1-2 points and
Reading and other leaders in the rail
way division also fell abruptly.
United States Steel was the center
during the trading of tho forenoon of
convulsive movements. In one lot at
the opening 50,000 shares were quot
ed at 104 1-4 to 105 1-4, an extreme
loss of 3 1-2 points. This was the
i largest single transaction in the his
tory of the exchange. During the
I noon break Steel dropped to 102 1-2.
Total sales of all stocks during tho
1 first two hours reached the almost
unprecedented total of 1,300,000
shares.
The trading, with its quick nervous
rallies and declines caused many
brokers to discourage the buying of
the more volatile specialties except
for cash and others refused to accept
less than fifty per cent margins, even
for standard shares.
Another wave of selling swept the
market during the last hour, prices
tumbling to the lowest level of the
day. Active stocks sold five, ten and
fifteen points under yesterday's final
quotations. Total transactions just
before tho close were estimated at
about 2,700,000 shares, tho largest
with one er two exceptions. In the
history of the New York stock ex
change. Trading in tho closing moments i
was fast and furious. The ticker was
almost uselessly behind in recording
tho transactions. Steel dropped to
100 7-S, five and five-eights points
down from the high point today. An
aconda sold down to 77 7Sc; Reading
to 99c; Union Pacific to 142 1-2; Ma
rine preferred to 84 1-4.
No one knew in the brokers' offices,
however, what the quotations actual
ly were at any given moment on the
floor of the exchange.
Later estimates placed the total
sales at 3,000,000 shares, not exceeded
since the Northern Pacific corner of
1901, when there were two 3,000,000
share days.
The market continued to break dur
ing the noon hour, Steel declining to
102 1-2 with 2 to 5 point losses in
other stocks which were exempt from
tho early onslaught, Including some
of tho rails. The weakest industrial
was Gulf States Steel, which made an
extreme loss of 20 points.
uu
LEGATIONS WANT
AMERICAN AID
Desire Co-operation in Re
organization Loan of Fifty
Million Dollars to China.
Peking, China, Dec. 21. Tho Rus.
sian, Japanese British and French
legations have indicated to tho foreign
office and the American legation their
desire for American co-operation In
the reorganization loan of 10,000,000
pounds.
Tho Chinese government Is becom
Ing impatient at tho delay on the
part of the representatives of Great
Britain, France, Russia and Japan in
concluding the arrangements for the
that tho loan is being considered by
the London agents.
.nn -
Superdreadnaught Mississippi.
Newport News, Va Dec. 21 Tho su
perdreadnaught Mississippi, now build
ing here, will be launched on January
25. Miss Camillo McBeath of Meri
dian, Miss., daughter of J. M. McBeath,
national committeeman froni Missis
sippi, has been named by Secretary
Daniels to christen tho warship. The
silver service of tho old battleship
Mississippi, retained when the vessel
was sold to the Greek government,
will be presented to the now ship.,
VILLA FORCES TO
ATTACKTORREON
Large Body Approaching City
From South While Chief
Advances From North.
ALL EXPECTING . FlGHT
Many Refugees Leave for
Border Acting German
Vice Consul Robbed.
El Paso, Texas, Dec. 21. Five
Americans and one other foreigner
who arrived here early today from
Parral by way of Torreon and re
ported that Torreon was about to be
attacked by Villa forces.
The refugees said Villa was at Jinu
enez when they left Torreon threo
days ago. A large force of Villa fol
lowers was expected to approach Tor.
reon from the south at the same t!mo
Villa moved on Torreon from the
north. Tho Americans also confirmed
the death of Howard Gray, or Weeks,
at Parral. He was the only American
killed, they said.
Refugees Leave for Border.
The Americans in the party in
cluded Dr. Thomas Flannigan, Jacob
Myer, Adam Schaefer, W. C. Palmer,
Julio Sinner, a Swiss citizen, also
came to the border with the party.
They left Parral ten days ago. They
said everyone in Torreon was expect
ing an attack by Villa forces yester
day or today and many refugees were
leaving for the border. All of the
Americans who were In Parral at the
time Villa occupied the town on No
vember 5 havo now been accounted
for, four .having como to the border
by way of Culiacan, Sinaloa.
Edger Koch, acting German vice
vonsul at Parral, also accompanied the
Americans to the border. He was
robbed of fifty thousand dollars worth
of silver bullion at Santa Rosalia by
Villa's followers on October 27, he
said.
Carranza Troops to Evacuate Parral.
Carranza troops were preparing to
evacuate Parral when tho refugees left
there for the border on December
14th, one of the Americans In the
party said. The Villa forces under
Jactino Hernandez had left the town
about December 3rd, he said, but was
expected to re-enter the. town soon
after tho refugees left for the border.
At Jimenez the Carranza troops
were at tho railroad station preparing
to leave for the south and evacuate
the town to the Villa forces which
were near, tho refugees said.
Villa at Jlmlnez.
Government agents received a re
port today that Villa was at Jimenez
yesterday In person and was prepar
ing to move on Torreon at once with
his northern command, co-operating
with rebels operating In the Laguna
district near Torreon.
The Carranza garrison In Torreon
was said by these government agents
to number less than 1,000 while Villa
had several times that number of
men, it was said. This information
was forwarded to Washington.
CHINESE REFUSE TO
CONFIRM PLENARY
Peking, China, Dec. 21. Parliament
has refusod to confirm the appoint
ment by Premier Tuan Chl-Jul of
Tsao Yuln, formerly minister of for
elgn affairs, as plenary to confer the
Grand Order of Merit on tho Japa
nese emperor who has expressed wil
lingness to receive him.
Parliament designated Hsiung HsI
Ling, former premier, for this mis
sion but Japan informally disapproved
the appolntmont, suggesting postpone
ment of the matter until tho tJhineso
premier and parliament were harmonized.
00
DOOR TO PEACE
IS NOT CLOSED
Way Remains Open, If Ger
many Is Willing to Make
plete Restitution.
London, Dec. 21, 12:21 j). m. The
Dally Mail, which Is close to Premier
Lloyd-Goorge, this morning gave
prominence to the following:
"The Gormanlc and neutral press
views of Lloyd-George's refusal of
tho German peace offer largely take
tho standpoint that ho did not close
the door to peace. The actual fact,
however, Is that ho entirely declined
peaco on anything except the allies'
terms and tho door obviously remains
open only If Germany is willing to ac
cept thoso terms which are complete
restitution, full reparation and effect
ual guarantees."
BRITISH TROOPS
MAKE ADVANCE
Penetrate German Positions IJ!
North of Arras Enemy B j '
Makes Counter Attack. , j 1 1
Berlin, Dec. 21, via wireless to Say- 1 1
ville. British troops penetrated ad- Ei
vanced German positions north of i
Arras yesterday, the war office an- ' j !
nounces. Subsequently they were J j
ejected by a German counter attack. T j I
Russians Make Determined Attacks. Eji
Berlin, Dec. 21, by wireless to Say- f Ji
ville. On the Golden Bystrltza river !
yesterday .the Russians made a de- hi)
termined effort to advance, attacking t
four times, it Is announced officially. , j!
Their efforts broke down under the j
fire of Austro-Hungarian troops. In
Rumania tho Teutonic forces gained I
further ground. y jj
Paris, Dec. 21, 2:20 p. m. The of- , j
ficlal announcement on the progress 111
of hostilities in Macedonia given out II j
this afternoon reads: jj
"There has been intermittent artll- jj
lery fighting on tho Struma front and j;
in the sector of Majadagh. The ex- If
changes were more violent in the re- j'
gion of Hill 1050. Snow and rains I'
continue on the front In Macedonia," ' :
II,
GENERAL SCOTT
AGAINWITNESS j
Friends of National Guard In- ' I
terrogate Chief Regard- II
ing Recent Border jl
Mobilization. 'I
WILL GO TO SENATE jl
Major General Wood, Also, I
Asked to Appear Again for 1 1
Cross-Examination. s
Washington, Dec. 21. Major-Gencr- H
al Hugh L. Scott, chief of staff of
the army, was again a witness before
the house military committee today.
Friends of the national guard were
ready to interrogate him further re- H
garding his references yesterday to 1
the recent mobilization as proof of I
tho national guard system's ineffi-
ciency, H
After hearings before the house : jjH
committee, General Scott will be re-
called before the senate sub,commlt- ,
tee considering the Chamberlain uni- WmW
versal military training bill for cross- I
examination by Senator Lee of Mary- jjJ
land, a champion of the national j 91
guard. Major-General Leonard Wood, H
commander of the eastern department
who criticiszed the national guard sys- j H
tem before the committee, also has oH
been asked to appear again.
General staff officers are preparing M
to present specific reports on the
mobilization. H
JSal call I
Sends Summons to General lMwm
Niyelle to Command Armies 1
of North and Northeast.
RAPID PROMOTIONS H
General Castelnau Retained on
Active List Brilliant Mili-
tary Talents Rewarded. jH
Paris, Dec. 21, 4:0 a. m. The offl- hH
clal letter summoning General Nivelle
to the command of tho armies of the 'll
north and northeast was signed by bH
General Joffre as commander-in-chief
of all the French armies. General jH
Castelnau, General Joffre's chief of
state; having reached the age limit
has been retained on the active list
by a special decreo signed by PresL- jH
dent Poincare, which is preliminary
to his appointment to tho command
of an army group.
Brigadier-General Ferdinand An.
guste Pont, whom General Nxvdlle iH
has chosen as Ills chief of staff, has
been promoted to general of division IjH
for the duration of tie war. General IH
Pont, like his chief, Is an artillery of- IH
fler and was a junior lieutenant- IH
colonel on the staff of one of the
armies at the beginning of the war.
His brilliant military talents soon H
brought him to the notice of General
Joffre. who singled him out for rapid
promotion. fH
1 IH
