" THE ENEMY"— George Randolph Chester's Chapters
HARRISBURG silKlS TELEGRAPH
LXXXV — Xo. 296 16 PAGES
HIST! TURKEYS
SELL FROM 10 TO
19 CENTS POUND!
High Price of Christmas Dinner
Takes Sudden Drop After |
Wreck of Car
12 KILLED; 125 LIBERATED
Train Hands and Express Com
pany Employes Kept Busy
Chasing 'Em
An Adams Express car, on a siding
at Third and Mulberry streets, loaded '
with turkeys and Christmas merchan-J
disc, figured in an early morning i
wreck. A dozen turkeys were killed j
and about 25 more fluttered about!
until they found a roost and were latere
gathered in by train hands and ex
press company employes. Some of the)
dead turkeys were subsequently sold,
prices ranging from 10 to 19 cents a
pound. Several with broken legs ;
brought the latter price. Most of tho,
merchandise was crated and damage
was slight.
The accident happened about 5:10 j
this morning. The express car was i
standing too far out on the siding, J
and was sideswiped by a Baltimore!
train. Xo one was injured. Traffic j
was blocked for two hours until the
wreck crew righted the car and gath-j
ered up the merchandise. Most of
the express goods were consigned to
Harrisburg.
Four Fires in 14 Hours;
Loss From sls to SI,OOO
Four fires in fourteen hours with
losses varying from sls to #I,OOO has !
been the city's tire record since yester
day afternoon.
Paper dropping on a lighted oil
stove started a tire at the home of
A. H. Mohler, 244 Hummel street,
at 6.20 o'clock this morning. The
tire was not reported until thirty
minutes later and it was then gaining
rapid headway. The weather board
ing of the adjacent house, the home of
J. Frank Sourbeer. started blazing and.
spreading over the entire upstairs, did
damage estimated at SI,OOO before it
was extinguished. Mohler's home was
slightly damaged.
An alarm from Box 221 was rung in
:his morning at *5.30. A passing news-
I boy noticed the flue of the Plaza Hotel
I blazing and rang the call. The tire
was extinguished before doing any
damage.
Two fires yesterday afternoon, both
caused by oil stoves, ddi small dam
age. The home of Mrs. John Daly,
167 Summit street, was damaged to
the extent of $25. The home of George
I). Rheem. 1903 Wood street, was also
slightly damaged.
THE WEATHER
For llarrinhurs and vicinity: Vn
ettlr<l, proiiahly light ruin or
miiow anil alightly voider to-night
tilth lo*%rt temperature about
-H degrees; Frlda> ( fair ami
colder.
For Ka*tern IVnnylvnnia: l ocal
rain* or Known to-night; lightl>
colder; Friday eolder and prob
ably fair; gentle to moderate
uindm
River
The SuMquehanna river and it*
tributaries will remain generally
icebound and nearly Mtationary.
\ *tage of about 3J* feet, to lee
surface, is indicated for Harris
burg Friday mboriiing.
General Condition*
Tlie center of the storm from the
West ha* iuo\ed from Vrkanna*
to the mouth of the Mississippi
river in the last twenty-four
hours. It Is caiming unsettled
weather o*er nearly all the ca*t
eru half of the country and rain
ha* fallen generally in the *outh
ern, rain and *no\v in central and
north di*trict* ea*t of the >ll*-
si**ippl river in the last twenty
four hour*. Another storm, mov
ing Inland from the North Pacific
ocean, hits caused rain and *now
genera II > we*t of the Itoeky
Mountain*. except In southern
di*triets. Temperature* hae
risen • degree* to :*<( degrees in
the l.ake Region and thence east
ward to the Atlantic coast anil
Mouth and east of the Ohio river;
they have fallen 2 degree* to .*{<>
degrees in central and southern
di*trictM between the iiocky
Mountain* and the Ml**laipp|
rlter and in the Southwest.
Temperature: s a. m., 32.
Sun: Hise*. 7:24 a. m.; sets, 40:13
p. in.
Moons Ken moon, December 24,
3:30 a. m.
River Stage: 3.0 feet above low
water mark.
Yesterday's Weather
Highest temperature, 2V
lowest temperature. l.*.
Mean temperature, 2'2.
Normal temperature, 32.
Burn a
Christmas
Candle
A single taper burning
from the window on Christ
mas Eve with charming sim
plicity radiates Good Will
and Welcome and honor to
the Christ Child.
FOUR PROMINENT
MEN DIE
SIX-HOUR
City Solicitor Daniel S. Seitz, Robert H. Thomas, of
Mechanicsbarg; Dr. J. W. Warren, Assistant to State
Health Commissioner, and James H. Latz, City's Old
est Plumber, Succumb
ALL WIDELY KNOWN THROUGHOUT
HARRISBURG AND CENTRAL PENNA.
Within a few hours of each other, four men, prominent in the
city and throughout Central Pennsylvania, died last night.
They were Daniel S. Seitz, city solicitor; Robert 11. Thomas,
Jr., Mechanicsburg, one of the best-known men in Pennsylvania and
long prominent in the work of the Grangers' Association; Dr. J. \V.
Warren, assistant to State Health Commissioner Dixon, and James
11. Lutz. Sr.,'the oldest plumber in the city and one of the oldest in
the State.
I v . ;
| - ' : ' • . '
ltl .
DANIEL S. SEITZ,
Funeral of Solicitor
Seitz, Dead at Overview
Home, Saturday Afternoon
Attorney Daniel S. Seitz. city solici
tor of Harrisourg for more than 20
years, died at 4.30 o'clock yesterday
afternoon at his country home at.
I Overview, just north of Enola.
| Since late In October Mr. Seitz had j
been seriously ill from the effects i
of a cerebral blood clot which sudden- j
ly developed while he was watching
the Yale University bicentenary cere
monies in the great Bowl at New Ha
ven. Mr. Seitz's son, Robert Wilcox
Seitz is a junior at that institution and
I the solicitor and his wife had visited
i the Connecticut city while the form
[Continued on Page 1:1]
James H. Lutz, City's
Oldest Plumber, Dies
After Long Illness
James H. Lutz. oldest plumber In!
: the city, and one of the oldest plumb
ers in the State, died yesterday at his
| home, 32S South Fourteenth street.
: He was the son of Henry Lutz, pioneer
| plumber of the State,-who conducted
j a business at 422 Market street,
j Death was due to a complication of
I diseases. Mr. Lutz had been in ill
health for several years, retiring from
active business about two years ago.
He was one of the oldest members of
the Perseverance Lodge, F. and A. M.,
having joined the lodge fifty years
ago.
t He is survived by three sons. Harry
i S. Lutz, Fred F. Lutz and Jas. H. Lutz,
; also a plumber; six daughters,
Mrs. Thomas Stevens, Mrs. Gert
rude Davis, Bessie, Minnie, Mae
, and Marjorie Lutz. Also eight grand
i children and one great-grandchild.
! Funeral services will be held Satur
; day afternoon at 2 o'clock from the
| home. The Rev. J. Bradley Mark
ward, pastor of the Bethlehem Luth
eran Church, will have charge of the
| services. Masonic burial services will
I be observed at the Harrisburg cerne
!tery.
Bonus of Month's Salary
to All W. P. Railroaders
New York, Dec. 21. A bonus of
| one month's salary to all employes
, whose salaries do not exceed SI,BOO a
: year, without discrimination as to
j membership in the railroad brother
hoods of trainmen was voted to-day
! by the directors of the Union Pacific
Railroad.
The directors also adopted a plan
for insurance for its employes with
salaries under $4,000.
The Union Pacific declared an extra
dividend of 2 per cent on its common
stock.
MRS. MARY HAMMELBAUGH
.Mother of School Board Secretary
Dies, Aged 82
Mrs. Mary Hammelbaugh. aged 82
years, died this morning at her home,
j 14."!7 North Second street.
1 Mrs. Hammelbaugh was the widow
jof Philip J. Hammelbaugh and the
, mother of D. D. Hammelbaugh. secre
tary of the School Board, and of Miss
Kathcrine Hammelbaugh, office secre
tary at the Technical high school.
Other survivors are two more daugh
ters, Mrs. James H. Collins and Mrs.
Margaret White, both of this city; a
sister, Mrs. Samuel Kline, and a
j brother, William Hinkle, of Concordia,
Kansas.
Funeral services will be held from
■ the home Saturday afternoon at 2
o'clock. The Rev. E. E. Curtis, pastor
I of Westminster Presbyterian Church,
i will officiate. Burial will be made In
j the Harrisburg Cemetery.
HARRISBURG, PA., THURSDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 21, 1916.
jJSF
ROBERT H. THOMAS. JR.
Robert H. Thomas, Long
Prominent in Affairs of
Cumberland County, Dead
Mechanicsburg, Pa.. Dec. 21.—Rob
ert H. Thomas, Jr.. editor and pro
prietor of the Daily Journal, the Farm
ers' Friend and the Saturday Jour
nal, one of the most prominently
known editor in the state, died at his
home in West Main street last evening
after several days' illness of pneu
monia. in his fifty-fifth year.
Although it was known that Mr. |
Thomas was in a serious condition, his i
death came as a shock to the com- i
in unity, where he had spent his entire ,
life. He had a wide circle of friends !
and a genial disposition and was an 1
ideal home maker.
Born and reared in Mechanicsburg,
Mr. Thomas was the grandson of the
[Continued on Page 3]
State Health Assistant
Fatally Stricken While
at Office in Capitol
Two bom's after he was stricken in
1 his offices at the Capitol Dr. Joseph
W. Warren, assistant to Dr. Samuel
G. Dixon, State Health Commissioner,
; died at 10 o'clock last evening at the
Keystone Hospital.
Both Drs. Warren and Dixon were
at their desks when the former sus
tained his fatal attack, although the
former was seated In his own office
adjoining Dr. Dixon's.
Dr. Warren was 67 years old. He
• came here four years ago to succeed
i Dr. Benjamin Lee, having served prior
to that time in the chair of physiology
i at Bryn Mawr College.
During his summer vacations while
at Bryn Mawr, Dr. Warren always
went to the Isle of Shoals off the Mas
sachusetts coast. In that little sum
mer village he was the "town doctor."
Dr. Warren was a fellow of the Col
lege of Physicians, of the Harrisburg
j Club, the Arts Club or Philadelphia,
Players' Club of New York, St. liot
l holt's, Boston, and a number of other
1 organizations.
The assistant State health chief was
j unmarried and arrangements will be
! completed to-day for taking his body
; to relatives for burial.
Americans and All Other
Foreigners Are Reported
to Be Fleeing Torreon
San Antonio. Texas, Dec. 21. An
unofficial report from Eagle Pass,
Texas, last night was to the effect that
' British Consul O'Hea had departed
from Torreon with two trains carrying
all the Americans and other foreign
ers. The report says they left Tor
reon for the south, hoping to reach
Zacatecas thence to make their way
to San Euis Potosl and to the border
through Monterey.
Before communication was cut
south of Piedras Negras. messages
I from Consul O'Hea stated that he had
j been successful at the behest of in
! structions from Washington, In per
suading ail the foreigners, Americans,
; Germans and English to leave.
It is believed at the border that
i Villa has by this time entered Torreon.
Christmas Hours For
Barber Shops Announced
! The following letter was given to
j day to the Telegraph by E. L. Wagner,
secretary of the Harrisburg local of the
Barbers' Union, regarding Christmas
hours in the barber ships:
"I wish to call your attention to the
fact that the rules of the barbers arc
the same all over the city and that the
shops of the city will open at 7.30
Monday morning and close at 10
a. m. as the barber wants to be off on
Christmas the same as every other
crit ft."
DANGER OF U. S. BEING DRAWN
INTO WAR PRIME REASON FOR
DEMAND TO DISCUSS TERMS
REQUEST MADE BECAUSE
WE ARE DRAWING NEARER
VERGE OF WAR—LANSING
Washington. Dec. 21. —Secretary Lansing to-day authorized the
following statement:
"The reasons for the sending of the note were as follows:
"It isn't our material interest we had in mind when the note was
sent, but more and more our own rights are becoming involved by
the belligerents on both sides, so that the situation is becoming in
creasingly critical.
"I mean by that, that we are drawing nearer the verge of war
ourselves and therefore we are entitled to know exactly what each
belligerent nation seeks in order that we may regulate our conduct
in the future.
"No nation has been sounded. Xo consideration of the German
overtures or of the speech of Lloyd George was taken into account
in the formation of the document. The only thing the overtures did
was to delay it a few days. It was not decided to send it unil Mon
day. Of course, the difficulties that face the President were that it
might be construed as a movement toward peace and in aid of the
German overtures. lie specifically denies that that was the fact in
the document itself."
Secretafy Lansing further said: "The sending of this note will
indicate the possibility of our being forced into the war. That pos
sibility ought to serve as a restraining and sobering force safe
guarding American rights. It may also serve to force an earlier
conclusion of the war. Neither the President nor myself regard this
note as a peace note; it is merely an effort to get the belligerents
to define the end for which they are fighting."
"FABRICATIONS,"
SAYS GOVERNOR OF
PENROSE CHARGES
Callers at Executive Offices As
sured That Cox ls Certain
of Speakership
".More fabrications?" was the only '
comment Governor Brumbaugh would '
make to-day on the charges made by '
Senator Penrose in Washington that i
promises of appointments for con- .
stltuents were being made to members'
of the next House of Representatives!
for vots for Edwin R. Cox for Sueaker.
Further than that he would not talk !
, and his comment upon reports that ;
| Cox might withdraw was enually terse.
| He said about the rumors. "Why?"
I The Governor and his friends have
j been informing callers that they are
| absolutely certain of the election of
| .Mr. Cox and that they only regret that
j the caucus is not going to be held
i to-day.
I The Baldwin headquarters an
j nounced to-day that more men would
: l>e added to the list for the man from
j Delaware and that several pledges had
been received in the last twenty-four
[Continued on Pane 4J
Small Newspaper
i Publishers to Be Cared For
by Federal Trade Body
| Washington, D. C.. Dec. 21.—Mem- |
I bers of the Federal Trade Commis
| sion said yesterday that at least a
, week would elapse before complete
j answers were received to inquiries sent
out to ascertain if an actual news-print
I paper shortage exists. When the in
| formation is returned paper manu-
I facturers. jobbers and newspaper pub- ;
\ lishers will be called for a final confer- I
j enee to discuss a distribution plan pro- 1
I posed by manufacturers to insure j
I small publishers a proper paper supply. '
! Some trade commission officials who
j have spent months on the investigation
!of the paper situation believe that
I panic among publishers who feared
! their wants would not be supplied con
| tributed to the high prices charged
j small publishers buying their paper in
| the open market.
Manufacturers now have agreed to
; sell to small publishers at the average
' contract price charged large publtsh
■ ers. and both publishers and members
i of the commission believe this price
' would not lie increased if it developed
that no shortage existed and distri
! button by the trade commission was
i necessary.
i
.
WHO WILL HELP JOHN
PLAY SANTA CL
To the Editor of the Telegraph:
The approach of Christmas finds us in great need of funds to use to
bring cheer into the homes of the folks who are in distress. There are
homes where the husband is dead, homes where he has deserted, and
homes where sickness or other misfortune lias deprived the breadwin
ner of means of support. In all these homes there are children—
children for whom the Associated Aid Societies has taken the responsi
bility of care and for whom the society must care for some time to come.
Mrs. S. is a widow with four small children; she has tuberculosis and
must go to a sanatorium after Christmas and her children must be taken
care of while she is gone. She has been assured of that but her Christ
mas can be made happier in knowing that some of the money for that
care has begun to come in.
Mrs. M„ a widow, has six children and has to watch very carefully
every expenditure; her Christmas would be carried far beyond the day
itself in knowing that besides the dinner Christmas friends had provided
the means—and it is a small amount—to keep the children well clothed
during the winter months. There are many stories we might tell you
besides but these will sufrice to suggest opportunities to make Christmas
a real expression of joy and gladness for Christmas day and for many
days aftar. Small amounts mean bread and warmth for little children.
I • Sincerely,
JOHN YATES,
Executive Secretary.
EXTENSION OF
UNDERSEA WAR
IS THREATENED
"Unavoidable and Indispensa
ble," German Paper Says in
Reply to Premier's Speech
London, Dec. 21. The Exchange
Telegraph Company's Amsterdam cor
respondent quotes the following from
the Berlin Tegelische Rundschau re
| garding the referenco made in the
House of Commons by Andrew Bonar '
Law, chancellor of the exchequer, to
I the case of Captain Btaikie of the
| steamer Caledonia, taken prisoner by
the Germans:
The German government has
not formally taken the position
that England's armed commercial
and passenger steamers are men
of-war, being armed auxiliary
cruisers. The promise given to
America —which has always hin
dered our submarine war—that
these vessels, before being torpe
doed must be stopped and be ex
amined, falls to the ground. They
are warships and must be treated
as such, even when Americans
are on board.
We now have facilities for ex
tending the undersea boat war,
which all sensible people have
long recognized as unavoidable
and indispensable. This is the
best reply to Premier Lloyd
George's refusal of our peace of
i fer.
; Bonar Law, in his statement in the
House of Commons on Tuesday, said
Germany had given assurance that
Captain Blaikie would not share the
fare of Captain Fryatt of the British
steamer Brussels, who was executed
after conviction on that charge that
his vessel had attempted to ram a
| German submarine. Germany, the
I chancellor stated, considered the Cale
-1 donia an armed cruiser and that Cap
| tain Blaikie in attempting to ram the
! undersea boat was merely performing
' his duty.
French Armored Cruiser
Cuts Steamship in Two
Paris. Dec. 21. The sinking of
i an Italian steamship in a collision with
| the French armored cruiser Ernest
j Renan is reported in a dispatch from
> Marseilles. The steamship, which was
I taking Italian soldiers home on leave,
J was cut in two. Several persons, most
jof them passengers, were drowned.
I The number of survivors is given as
120.
Single Copy, 2 Cents POSTSCRIPT
Nation s Increasingly Critical Position as a Neutral, One of
Moving Considerations in Wilson's Dispatch of Notes
to All Belligerents Urging Them to Consider Way of
Ending Conflict
AMERICA'S RIGHTS BEING MORE AND MORE
INVOLVED; ENTITLED TO KNOW PURPOSES
Lansing Says Country Has Right to Know What Each Hos
tile Nation Wants "in 0 rder That We May Regulate
Our Conduct in the Future" as "U. S. Ls Drawing
Nearer the Verge of War"
Washington, Dec. 21. Ihe danger of the United States itself
j being drawn into the war, by reason of its increasingly critical posi
tion as a neutral, was one of the moving considerations in President
\\ ilson's dispatch of notes to all the belligerents urging them to dis
j cuss terms of peace.
Secretary Lansing, to-day authorized the statement that ihe
material rights of the I nited States had not been the paramount
consideration. Americas rights, he said, were being more and more
involved l>V the belligerents and as the United States was "drawing
nearer the verge of war." it was entitled to know exactly what each
belligerent seeks in order that we may regulate our conduct in the
: future."
I'rosklcut Quiet
At the White House no effort was
I made to lessen the importance of]
■ Secretary Lansing's statement. Presi-]
! dent Wilson would make no coiu
j ments. It was evident that he knew
I its contents.
! President Wilson himself on several
occasions has pointed out the danger
of tho United States becoming involved
AMERICAN STEAMER ?
Nante:'. France, Dec. 21. via London.—The American I
i steamship Kansan has been laged by striking a mine, f
J take I
1 iber *
I 6, for St. Nazaire. SHe is owned by the American- j
| A
T OATTACKTORREON f
| | )
1 of |
I
1 •!
? pre
-2 • Boland's resolution t j have the House direct the jl
9 IE
| 1 cost of living, the Judiciary Commit- !>[ =
i ** tee to-< ressed the opinion that only a thorough in- 1
'I ting and storage would t
J & solve the problem. JL
: T |
4 1 in the
1 The closing i I
I
) 1 ice the war ;
r | day of 5®
t I
11 S K
* W re- I |
* 9 ' u
s 1 ANNIHILATED
1 Tex., Dec. 21.— Fifty C j I
I ns titutii , a garrison at Bocas, near San Luis- Potosi, were <,
J attacked by Villa followers, Sunday, and annihilated.
4 SIOO GIFT ECHO OF LOCHIEL WRECK f
j to-day when IJ
he Harrisburg Hospital received the following letter from >[
II : in * ►
{• the Lochiel wreck, and both later died in the hospital: j [
"Kindly accept the enclosed check for SIOO, ,
I of my husband, John Wesley Anderson, and my son. Frank 1 ►
Anderson, who were so tenderly cared for in your hospital j £
twelv* years ago; •'MRS. AM DELL A M. ANDERSON." ' '
MARRIAGE LICENSES "* f '
Kiln Kril K. Kemltrrifrr and Katbrr F. W aunrr, Mlllerx'turn.
.lullll Kerpt-r l.oilKu-ckcr, lilutmplrr, uml lvnthr>u Kllinbrtk Mickey,
ItuforU McClellan AmbrnF and Klla Fallor, rlty. <
<k Ueurm W. Shun ami Mary K. Itouiberiter, Halifax.
w i vw" l Vir* —*ty "y(r"wiW ■ m i
In the war. Because of violations of
I American rights, he lias felt that tho
I'nited States had a very difficult rolo
to till.
Last February, while touring tho
I < on tinned on I'll go -11
(Full Text of Wilson's Note to Belli
gerents oil Page 11)
