5r
Tl5
PROSPERITY TALK
TtiH riirioimiu biMliif n hnnllil !'
tin i'pri'i rtitiijiHiiii' of (lif rily 1n
ilniilili'l ovrr lu.l !, they r'i"lt.
There in TiiUn prohjuM ily for yu.
THE WEATHER
TrT.B.V. Iit. JO Miklinuiii IT,
minimum II, North win.l; cloudy,
OKLAHOMA Ki'UKlWsT TIium
duy mil Kmliiy fair nil not o ioM
1 rJLlSSr Ulf TTD.
VOL. XII. NO. 91.
WILSON APPEALS
TO BELLIGERENTS
President Sends Historic Plea
.for Peace to the Warring
Nations.
CONFERENCE AT LEAST
"Act Before It Is Too Late,"
His Warning to Powers
Fighting.
GERMANS THINK END IS NEAR
Von Bernstorff Asserts He;
Believes Negotiations Will
Follow.
WASHINGTON. !. Pvsldenl
Wilson hi"' appealed to all tilt Ix-llig-crcnt
to discus Icrm of M'mv.
Wltlioiit actually iroM.sliig euv or
offering nic.lhilloii, Ihi president lm
sent formal nolo, to Hi"- government
of ull the warring nation HUKgf-lln
Hut "an f-nrly invasion lie t.oiiglil lo
rail out from the nation now lit war
such an avowal of their rvMHlve
! J' to tho Icrm iiMn which Hi"
war might he concluded and tin- ar
rangements wlilrh wimiI.I Ik deemed
satisfactory as u guaranty again! It
renewal or tin- klndlinR of any flml-
lar coiiflii l tn mi- mm . n
make It ihihhIIiIi frankly to rommr
tlii-iii."
Wholly without notice and entirely
contrary to what administration offi
cials Imr tlcscrilM-d iih hi course, tin"
president last night dispatched the
notes to all tin- belligerent ami to
all tin- iK'iitrals for their Inroniiallon.
SuniiiinrUcd In tin' president" own
words an contained in tin1 notes. Id
altitude I bm follow:'
'Take honndiiirV
"Tlie president Is not propositi
til-ate: lie Is not even offering media
tlon. He I merely proposing that
soundings Im taken in order that we
m learn, the neutral nation with
the hclllnerent, how near the haven of
peace may In- for which all mankind
louir Willi an Intense and Increasing
hum inc. He liclicvc that the spirit
In which he sx-ak and the object-.
which he seeks will Ik- understood by
all concerned and he confidently Iiom-
for n response wliich will bring a new
IlKht Into the affairs of the world."
This latest development in the rap
idly nun Inn world event toward a dis.
......i.... ..r iuiiiv uii. hoi itcrniillcd
to Im-coiiic known until tonight when
the notes were well on their way to
the American ambassadors in the Im-I-
llgercnt capitals anil proimoiy airciioj
III the hands of some of them.
A Hl-tiiicl Surprise.
Tl u.w n must distinct surprise to
oil ..ffi.hil Wii.shinirtnn. which had
!.,, i.. liniinvi. that with the for
...ni (rfitiuititttiil nf the iiruncsals ol
the central power the officer! of the
I'lilted State would await further
move between the helligcre'its ih"m-
.,.lnu nml Hull cprtllilllV ill V'h W of
jIip speech of I'retnier Lloyd Ocorgo
nnu uie itiiuoiiiit-pioeuin no.
i.--,.r,..a ami Hiilv further action by
neutral would depend upon tho ni-U
urefni nml delicate moves of the
The whole tenor of official opinion
turnout VahliiKlon when the pres
ident action became Known wiim mm
It immeasurably Improved the pros
pert for some sort of exchange loi-k-u,i
lAiinrii nn ntuiroiich lo iieaee rtis-
eiiHHion between the belligerent with
out Impairing the position of Ihe
I'nited State Hhould they finally be
unable to find a Rtpup on which to
ni.l,r,mh nttO Milliliter.
At ihe White IIoune no xtatement
u li nur i.r mnli! lip obtained a to
uhniimi, unv at (lift iiowem ever hail
Intimated bow they would receive the
-.... ..ti.i tti.tfn ufiu ftiiirv Itiilicatioll
that the ame enreful aeereey which
prevented anythinK whatever hecom
Iiib known about the preslilenf action
until It had been taken, would sur
round any of thu micpeeillntr moves.
All llefow Surface.
Nowhere on the mirface appears any
ImiKMtlon or ine iusioit'iohmmk
event which dlpolmatlsts cenerally
ni'A eon-lnpnH must hnvr ransoired. I
since the (lerinan allies brought forth
their proposals, to dispel the generally
( 0NTIM K1I ON 1'Allt: TWO
PIONEER OKLAHOMAN DEAD
Man Who Mlnuli il Willi Trllio of In
dians llcs jj( .Soldiers' Home.
Rt,nil In ThA Will-M.
Ix.p 20. Alonr.a II.
Cctchell, nKPd 0, died nt tho national
Ho'iller' home here lie hud lived In
.r..l.... n.. iilhn.
i iiina nnu - -
lnim time alio; He lived many years
with tne inuian trioes invre. jib mm
a novel diet of bread, molasses ami
ml'k, which he kepi up for year, nl-
........ nlulniflla ,1)11, thnl'0 W1IH Hllffl'
inl.i ......iuii.....nt in tlins thrfte ar
ticles of food. He had nlwats been
active and was never sick until a few;
i.. il.. no inn of n tthort-livod
fdiullv. althouKh ho hud one brother
...... ii...l lis 9 nml be hpCHIIlP II I
eonvert to the bread, molnwea and
uilTlt diet. ,
PAY FOR SHAVE IN EGGS
Cash IteKlster DtM-sn't Klntf In a to
lumhiis, tllilo. Ilarlnr shop.
rOLt'MM'S. Ohio, Dec. 20. A llxn
In a IllKh strfet barber shop reads:
"Shave, five cw. or twenty-five po-tatoe."
The President's Plea for Peace
WAHHINUTOX, Iiee. :0. I'reslileut Wilson's note to the hoslile
powers, plendlua: for at least u conMei atlon of pea e terms ami bcK
Klii Ihe wari'lUK nations to heed before It Is to latu". was Kiven out
tonight.
The texts of the note themsetvcH IickIii Identically as follows:
'The president of the I'nited Slate ha Instructed me to UKKCt
to tho there Is Inserted u designation' of the (toverninent addriss.dl a
course of action with regard to tlm present war which hu hope that
the government will take under consideration as suggested In the
most irieiully spirit and a coming, not only from a friend, but ulso
as coming from thu repi cHcntatlve of a neutral nation whose Intercuts
havu been most bcrlously averted by the war and whose concern for
Its early conclusion arises out of a manifest necessity to determine
how best to safeguard those Interest If the war Is lo continue."
NOTKS VAKY.
At this point the texts vary. In the notes to the central powers
this paragraph follows next:
The suggestion which I am instructed to make, Ihe piesideut
has long had in mind to offer. He Is somewhat embarrassed to ofler
It at this particular time because il may now seem to have been
prompted by a deslrt- to play a part In connection with the recent,
overture of th-ri ntial power. H hus In fact be. n in no way sug
gested by them In lis origin and the president would have delayed
offering It until those overtures had been Independently aiihwcre.l
but for the fact that It also concerns the question of peace and i..a
best be considered In connection wilh other proposals which have
the same end In view. The president can only beg that his suggestion
be considered entirely on its own merits and as .f it had be n niado
In other circumstances."
tovsiDi iti i movi: in :iom :.
In the note to the entente allies the following paragraph lakes
the place of the one Just quoted:
The suggestion which 1 am Instructed to make, the president
ha long had In mind to offer. Ho Is somewhat embarrassed to ofler
, It at this particular llmo because It may now seem to have been
' prompted by the recent overtures of the central powers. It i In
fact in no way associated Willi them in Its origin and the president
would have delayed offering It until those overture had been An
swered but for the fact thai It also concerns the question of peace
and may he best considered in connection with other proposals which
have the name f.nd in view. The president can only beg that hi
Bugnestlon be considered entirely on Its own merit und as if il had
been inado In oilier circumstance!."
Then all (he note proceed Identically as follows:
WANTS VIIAVS OP Al l..
'The president huggcsl that an rly occasion be sought to call
out fu.n all the nation now at war such an avowal of their respect
ive views a to tno terms upon which the war migni i.e conco..-.,
and the arrangement which would be deemed satisfactory as a guar
antee against Its renewal .r the kindling of any similar conflict In
the future a would make It possible frank y to compare them, lie
is Indifferent a to the mean taken to accomplish this, lie would
be happy hlmiielf to serve or even to take the initiative in 11 accom
plishment in any way that might prove acceptable, but he ha no
desire to determine the method or the instrumentality. One way
will be a acceptable to him a another If only the great object he
has In mind be attained.
ALL I'ltiHT l'OH sa.mi:.
He take ll.e liberty of calling- atu ntl.m lo the fact ll.ai the ol.J.-ci
which the atatcsmen of Iho IhIIIkciviiI on boih side have n u.l.id
in his war an- Irlitally the same, a stated In Rcncr.il term to their)
own people ami to the world. IjicIi side .loir.- to make life right
and privileges of weak people and unall stale as secure against,
aggression or denial in the future a the rights and privilege of tin
crcat and powerful state now nl war. IU. li wish.- Itself to Ik- made
secure in the future, nlona with all other mil Ions ami pcoph-s against
the recurrence of wars like this and against aggression of wlfisli In-tci-fi-rciicc
of uny kind.
'Knelt would be Jealon or the formation of any more rival leagues
to preserve an uncertain balance of power amidst multiplying auspicious-
but each Is ready to consider the formation of the league of na
tiotis'to Insure peace and Jiuitlee thruoul the world. J-efore that final
step can be taken, however, each deem It necessary to settle the Issue
of thp present war on terms which will certainly safeguard the Inde
pendence, the territorial Integrity and the political and commercial
freedom of the nations Involved.
I'.'s. VITALLY lNII.ltr.STI 1.
"In the measure to he taken to secure the future peace of the
world the peoples and government of the I'nited States are u vitally
and as directly Interested as the governments now at war. Their
interest, moreover. In the means to be adopted to relieve the smaller
and weaker peoples of the world of the pull of wrong and violence
Is as quick and ardent a that of any other people or government.
They stand ready and even erer to cp-opcrate in the accomplish
ment of these ends, when the was l. over, with every Influence and
resource at their command, but the war must first be concluded.
The terms uion which It I to be concluded they are not nt liberty
to suggest: but the president does feel that It i Ills right and his
duty to point out their Intimate interest In its conclusions left It
" otild presently be too late to accomplish the greater tilings by Its
conclusion, lest the situation of neutral nations now exceedingly
)m..j t lurc. he rendered altogether Intolerable, and lest, more
than all. an Injury he done to civilization iuelf which cuu never be
atoned for or repaired.
-iirroiti: it is too lati-'.."
'The president therefore feels altogether Justified In anggcsllng
mi linniiiliale opportunity for comparison of 'lews as to tin term
which must pn-ccilc iIicm- ultimate arrangement for the pcinv of Ihe
world which all desire mid In which the neiilriil iinllon as well n
those at war are ready to play their full responsible irt. If the
contest must continue to pnH-ced to iiuih-riucil ends by slow attri
tion until the one group of l-lllgcrcnl or the other Is exhausted.
If million after million of human lives must continue to lie offered!
up until on the one side or the oilier there am- no more lo offer, ir
resentment must l kindled thai can never cool ami dcsalrs en
gendered from which Ihcr t ail lie no reisivery, li"N or caeo ami,
of the wllllnii isuicerl of free oilc will I- rendered vain ami Idle.
Lin: or would Arri.tn:n.
"The life of the entire world ha been profoundly affected. Kv
erv part of the great family of mankind has felt tho burden and
terror of this unprecedented contest of arms. No nation In the civ
ilized world can be said In truth to stand outside It Influence or to
be 'safe against II disturbing effects. And etthe concrete object
for which It In being wuged have never buen definitely stated.
"Tlm leader or tho several belligerents have, a hus been said,
stated thoso object in general Urm. Uut, stated in general terms,
thev seem the same on both sides Never yet have the uuthoi Itatlvo
spokesmen of either side avowed the precise objects which would,
it attained, satlsl them and their people Unit thu war had been
fought out Tho war has been left to conjecture what definite re
sults, what actual exchange of guaranties, what political or terri
torial change or reaujiistmenl. what slage or military success ever
would bring the war to an end,
i'i-:A(T. may iik ni:au.
- "It may he that ponce I nearer thun we know: that the term
which tho belligerent on the one side and on the other would deem
it necessary lo Insist upon are not so Irreeoncillnhln a some have
feared- that an Interchange of Mew would clear the way at least
for conference end tnnko the permanent concord of nation a hope
'for the Immediate future, a concert of nation Immediately praetl-
l ' "'The president Ifnot proposing ppaco; he Is not even offering
mediation. - Ho I merely proposing that soundings be taken In order
that we tuny lern, the neutral nations with the belligerent, how ner
the haven of peace miv he for which all mankind long wlth'un In
tense and increasing longing. He Believes that the spirit In which
ho siieuk and tho object which he seek will be understood by all
concerned and he confidently hope , for a response which will bring
! a new light into the alfalr of the world."
The note to the entente group will be delivered to Client ilrltnln,
Trance, Italy, .laiwn, ltussla, Helglum, Montenegro, Portugal, Itu-
"'""Tlmtt.Mho central allies will ho delivered to Geimuny. Austria
Hungary. Turkey nd Hulgaibi
"it la being delivered to all neutral governments for their Infor
TULSA, OKLAHOMA, THURSDAY, DKCEMHKU 21, 191(5
EXACTLY $1,500 IN
CHRISTMAS FUND
APV
Whole City Interested in Cli
gall tic Campaign to Relievo
the Distressed.
LIST OF NEEDY GROWING
Additional Funds
Can
Rf
Used; $10 Worth of C.ro
cerios to Each Family.
v i:m i:hi ws ovntnu tions.
Previously reported . .
It. I'. (. I-:. No. Kt.i (
come I
Hotary clul
. $ ;,j. io
o
r.n'.oft
luu.no
I uu. MO
211. uu
in. im
7.111
i A. I-:. Lew is
i V. W. '. A.
i II. llcash-y
No name
, Cash
Cach
Mis. W. II. Springer
William I'l.-etw ool . .
; Palace theater
: I". Julius Fobs
, A. I'. A ult
1 Albert lli ow u
1 .lames llobsou
' Tulsa Street Hallway '
, J. K. I'otltiigham . . .
t'ash
1 Margaret Haglcr ....
j World editorial force
I M iss Pow el s
I TuLd to iLUO
,i. i"i
.l.nn
2.00
1-Ul'!i
2. no
u (Ml
fi OH
fi.UO
Hi oo
r.no
25.110
io.iio
CO
l.on
. J i, mid. ou
l.-irt.w.n lmiiili-i.il iliilhirH worth, of
! groceries, meats, vegetables, clothing
j toys, candy, fruit and nuts will be dis
tributed to the deserving needy people
of Tulsa, and surrounding territory
next Saturday utternooii.
Perhaps the fund will amount tn
more than this; at least It is hoped
so, for inline are being added to the
list of worthy families so rapidly thai
the Central Christmas diving coininit-
has been obliged lo change its
original estimate several times.
Ijist night was the time otflcia.i
set for closing the fund but contrlii,.-
tii.iis will be leceired by The World
or N. It. tiraham, chairman of the
coinmiltee. lit Ihe Planter ISntioiia.
bank any lime up lo l-'riday night.
The Klks assisted materially in
bringing the fund up to J 1.600. They
turned In IIH0 In cash yesterday and
announced that I here would be more
omlng later. The l-'.lks abandoned
their Chicken Hread club work this
year, feeling that il would be better
to do their charily thru the central
organization.
Kotartann Kid Nobly.
Tho Holary club gave $100 In one
minute and Individual members con
tributed $30 more. C. K. Lnhman, a
Itotarlnn and proprietor of tho Middle
W'pst bukery, offered to donate five
hundred loaves.of bread and these
will be placed in the basket of gru-
COMIS'I Kl) ON I'AfiK TURKU
MANY WILL ATTEND
CITY CLUB AFFAIR
Members of Legislature
and
Governor as Guests;
Smoker in Evening.
That a large number of the mem
bers of the Oklahoma legislature will
attend the luncheon to be given by the
City club In Hotel Tulsa next Satur
day in honor of the governor and law
makers, was Indicated yesterday w hen
numerous responses were received
from the invitation that were sent out
early In Ihe week.
The fact that the luncheon Is to be
held so close to Christmas will prevent
many from attending, but the sena
tors and representatives living in the
oil producing counties surrounding
Tulsa will be well represented.
Ill addition to the menmers of the
club Invitations have been sent to
about two hundred men i c present lug
various associations and Industries in
the state. It will be the first luncheon
of the kind ever held in Oklahoma.
Automobile Hide.
John A. Hodgers, chairman of tlm
committee in arrange menu, an
nounced yesterday Hint the visiting
legislators would be given an aiilouio
CONTINI'Kli (IX I'.M.K TIIKKK
MINERS SETILE TROUBLES
I'lrst nieniiial Conlract Hetvvccn Okla
homa Workers ami Owners.
M'AI.L'STKIl, I 2(1. -The first
biennial contract to the negotiated be
tween tho I lilted Mine Workers of
America aid the recently organized
Oklahoma Coal Opcraters association
was completed Jiern today when the
scale committee of both i ganizations
formally adopted the working agree
ment which had I n framed by a
wubeoininlttce. The contract provides
for Increase In pay from n to IS per
cent for the Plght thousand miners
ufl'ected and amended working con
ditions. PNEUMONIA HITS BORDER
Half a I'.'eii Heaths I'ollovv In Wake
of a Hike In Hie Cold.
JiKMINC. N. M., I'ec 20. Six
deaths have occurred hp:e during the
past ten days from pneumonia. TIipsp
deal lis followed the "hlku" mud by
the national guard -brigade encimped
here, during which tho temperature
dropped suddenly ttnl caused much
alckiK-ss amo'ig the aoldiers, accord
ing to the hospital stuff officers.
5ov aoo onv
CA" CVMIHOHS
CREEKMORK A RRESTEI)
AT J 01' US V ESTER DAY
lbgcd "IKllg of IbM.llcggcrs'
I, il.. . i n - -j llolld of
Ite
.t!U.ios! lUJioll .
villi l.i Tlm World.
.Ml'SKitiiKK. Okla.. I'ec. 'JO. -Wil
liam .1. I'leekniore, alleged "klUK of
bootleggers", indicted by the federal
Ktaml July at I'bickasha recently on
three c. Mints charging conspiracy to
evade the federal liquor law by
bulling a federal officer, has been ar
rested nl Joplin, Mo., nml released on
J I (i.iioo bond pending a hearing be
lore a I'nit -d States commissioner on
I'.ceiuber 27.ni which tune he will
n-sist removal lo Oklahoma for trial,
l-'or several weeks deputy Lulled
Slnl.s marshals of three stales. Kan
sas. .Missouri and Oklahoma, have
been on the lookout for I'leekniore,
but It was not until Tuesday thai he
was lncateil in .lopllu.
It was not aiitlcipaled that t'reek
inore would return to eastern Okla
homa for trial without a legal fiKhl
and no surprise was maiillestcil to
il.iv nt the Pulled Slates attorney's ot -fice
o it the etlorts that will be made
to prevent ifckniorc's removal here.
W. P. .Moiiniiis, assistant lulled
Slates nlliiiney, will represent the
government at the hearing belore the
l ulled Stales coiiimlssioper al Joplin
I next Wednesday
II has not us yet been ileteriiiineu
whether I'rcckinorc ami others under
. oliiicv Indictment will he tiled
at the Jauntily term ol the red
tin- .lanuaiv term ol the feiloial
com t .
but it
which begins here January N.
now seems likely, as I'leekniore
is regarded as the real Mains ol ine
alleged conspiracy.
EXECUTE ANOTHER AMERICAN
Howard LIP'ii IHc for Alleged
Aiding
or ICclH'ls in I'prisliig.
WASIII.MiToN. I'ec. 20- -Notice
of the execution of Howard W. Klton,
an American, at oaxaca, Mexico. I'e
coinhcr III, reached the slate depart
ment Monday and was forwarded yes
terday to Ills lainily al wiui'iimhj,
Conn.
Itepcated effort to save l-.llnn s
life have been made by the depart
ment since his arrest In August,
charged with conspiracy. lie was
given a trial and convicted of treason
aide activity in aiding rebels operat
ing In that stale and condemned to
.'.alb. on representations from the
I'nited Slates governmeiii a stay of
execution was granted, but reopening
of the case enabled Kllon lo produce
no evidence that altered Hie findings
or the i it. Kit"" was a mining man
who bad lived In Mexico for many
year.
LIGHT UP GALLAIS BUILDING
Side.
of Skyscraper I'lO'idcd Willi
Light Wednesday Nlglil.
people who were passing hy the tn
tory fialluis building last nlglil
noticed that the struclur" was covered
with a flood of light. The rront 'inl
ine side were one white blaze, and Ihe
building resembled one of Hip sky-
K.-ri is illuminated in (iolhams
p.roadvvi y.
The light was mace by livi high
powered iiielio-bydrog"ii lumps, lo
cated on Hie two story building nxt
to the Pioneer building. The building
was enveloped bv th- flood of IikM at
(i o'clock, and was Illuminated all din
ing the early hours of "he night.
As an advertising scheme such II
IiiiiiIik tii-n of a building is soiiu thing
new In this section of ihe country.
70,000-TON WARSHIPS NEXT
America lo
Monsters,
Itiilbl Sea's
According lo
Greatest
Plans.
WASHINGTON. Hoc.
battleships will reach
20
-American
their limit of
size when tllcy llispiae
sri-ii:y thou
sand tons. Hie house
naval ciiinniitteP
was loin louay oy ' - '
chiefs of the navy, and only then be
en use a greater ship eoiitu not pass
thru the lock of the Panama canal.
Chief Coii.stru' tor Tavlor told the
committee the battleships authorized
at this session of congress will have
disph men! of -P.'.fiiiO tons in onb-l
to carry the mam battery or twelve
Id-inch guns and make R speed of 2
knots. The total cost of each will
Ik- $24,3."i4.4.0 oil present prices.
GUARD'S EXPENSES ARE PAID
llolb llranilics of Congress I'ass
I rgent Deficiency Hill.
WASIUNCTON. I'ec. 20. - - An
urgent deficiency appropriation bill
carrying approximately $ l.riOO.lioo
Wjis passed by both house nml senate
and sent to the president for approval.
It provides $ l.2TiO,noo for dependent
of national guardsmen engaged in
Mexican border service, and $250.0(10
for several mints.
U. S. MAY BUY THE INDIES
Danish I'otkelhliik olcs In l avor
(if
Selling Island to Anicrlca.
copi:niiac,i-:n, n.-c 20. i via
London. iitfiU p. 111. 1 After a single
reading the ftokcthink today adoiled
the bill ratifying the treaty Mr (lift
sale of I'anish West Indies to the
1'nltei States. The v. do was 90 In
favor of and 10 against ratification.!
l-'ive members were absent.
llli: lY IN COM.HLSS. I
- j
Senate. I I
Met at rioon. I i
Senator Nevvlands urged coin- S '
inehensive flood control lull -
fore commerce minimi tec.
itesiime.l consideration of I 'is- j
Irb-t of Columbia prolillnllon lu'l. I
Pass id M 500,1100 urgent si-- I
flcieney bill, liicludliig proV isioris I
lor relief of national guards- I
men's families, and for contluu-
Ing operation of mints.
Adopted resolution to penult I
Increased water diversion for I
power purposes at Niagara I-'iids. I
Sol January for vote on I 'is- t
trlrt of Columbia prohibition lull. I
Adjourned 1:05 p. m. to noon
Thursday, J
House. ,
Passed $1,500,000 urgent defi-
clency lull. I
Voted to bold memorial crv- I
Ices for the late lleprc sentativ p I
Moss of West Virginia on Jami- I
nry 2S.
AdloilliKd ii.'iJ r. Hi. tn nnrtl
Tliursdav. 1
14 PAGES
STRUCK BY TAXI; j
WOMAN MAY DIE:
Mrs. V. I. Shannon in Hos
pital With Skull Fractured;
In tenia 1 Injuries.
HUSBAND IS SLIGHTLY HURT
Flyintr Auto Hit Couple a
One Pulled Forward. Other
Pack ; Driver's Story.
lit I I I TIN.
I met l-oii, driver of tin- ai Ihal
ran down Mrs. sliaiuioii, vtits airisnd
bv the police al "1 o'clo. k Mil- morning
a in I held for Investigation.
Atlciiilihu idivslciaiis announced m
l ::ii o clock lliis inmulnu that Mis W.
I. Sh. inn, hi of ;o SiiiiI.'i I lis,,, had
nut rcLjiited cois-iiiusne-s and that
her Iccivcrx was douht liil, i.s the re
sult i if a fr.ii tilled skull and internal
Injuries In the chest, hiistained lien
a White I Ine tnvuah driven bv Kiln' I
l.eou hi link Mis. Sham oil and be'
husband at SlMli and Huston at 1 1) -T
n i lock last IlKliI
An in .ling to the story related by
Mr. Shannon, who cmul net s a f urn i -lull-
stole at I I Wisl Second, he and
Ids wile were I'.'lurulng home, and In
crossing Sixth becan xcited when
Ih.-v saw a taxi approaching raiddly.
.Mrs. Shannon. It seems, allempted lo
pull her husband back acrcss the
ill-eel, while be. believing there wis
plenty of limp, endeavored to i 1 1 hi-
wife across the slrci t ahead of the car.
Iloih Arc Hi'.
As a lesiill hoib we'e struck bv the
bumper attached to the front of the
vehicle, Mr. shannon being merely
I In own to Ihe av eiieiil, while his
wife was iiiilled back against the
in hing.
When i oiiiiiiunii all d w ith sborllv
after the accident Krncst l.onu. the
i liaiiffcur. slated that lc was Iravel
liu; well within Hie i vc.l limit and
thai Hie excitement of ll-e pedestrian
was wholly resion;dbli: for tho .net
dent. Leon's Story.
Ills version of the affair was to the
elfict that when be saw tho couple
I'li'llng al one corner and not having
lime lo bi'iim the en to a stoti h"
turned 'he cai Into the curb. At lhn
momeul. he savs. the collide stonped
in the hi I 11 of the automobile. The
taxleab was trav.-ling north on Huston,
according to Information received
from ll.e taxi offue, and th driver
claimed lh.it he was not traveling
faster than Ihe speed limit for that
section. In this he is corroborated by
an occupant of the taxi.
Mrs. shannon was taken lo the 'k-l.-ihoina
hospital In the taxleab which
hit her.
RAILROAD BRIDGE IS
DESTROYED BY FIRE
s iToni rassing r.ngiiio
Ignites Railway Trestle
Near Depew.
Tiafric was blocked between Sham
rock and In-pew yesterday and pas
sengers were detained, as Ihe result
of tin- toial destruction by fir" of a
Mi-root bridge belonging to the Sa
pulpa - "il l-'ields railroad, early
Wednesday morning.
The bridge was made up or four
spans and was valued at about $."i.inul.
It was a lolal loss, but no accldeiits
lesulte.l. The file is I hot to have
started by a spark liom a passing
Irani.
The ollicials of Ihe railroad com
pany were notified In Tulsa yesterday
morniiiK. and Vice-President Chand
ler made a hurried trip to the scene
In make some ill rang. -incut for the
immediate renewal ol traflic. A crib
is being constructed to lake the place
ii the bridge until a new one can be
built, and t in tll- will be resuineil as
soon s the crib Is completed. The
ollicials hope to have the crib ready
some lime today.
Work on a new btldge will be stall
ed at once.
EDITOR GOES TO MISSOURI
VAuui il.ll School SilM-l liilen.b lit l.c
signs His Po-ilion.
S.-
inl In
In- Win !1
IMVCI.INC. Okla.. Pec. 20 C. S.
Slnllns. Sllliel Item lent of tho public
I school at Waurika. and one of thu
owners or the Waurika News liemo-
I cint, has resigned the school position,
sold his slock In Ihe New s-l i.-moci at
and will leave shortly alter the rust of
Ihe year for Liberty. Mo., to enter the
I new-paper business exclusively. II"
w ill be succeeded as superintendent by
S. II. Culwell. w ho has I n a teacher
in the Waurika high school for two
years. I. is uuderslooit trial . W.
Morrison, editor of the New s-l emo
eiat, put chased Mr. Sloi ins" Mock III
that paper.
Mr. Storm became superintendent
of the W.uirik.i school in mid. To him
residents of Waurika give the credit
of Its having become one of the best
schools in southern Oklahoma. He is
a live and us. lul citizen, prominent In
religious and social work as well as
eiliealiitial ali-l with a record ot hav
ing always stood for clean government
and order.
ENGLAND TO ANSWER NOW
li, dilations In London Are That Noli
Will He Heady i Ills Week.
l.oNl o. I tec. i O CJ 21 p. m. ) -There
Is a strong probability thai
1 treat llritain's reply to the Herman
pea.--1 proposal will be made ln-forc
Christmas. This was the opinion ir
well-informed government t-lr. Ins to
day, wlu-re It is also believed Ihe re
ply will be brief and will likely follow
the lines of Mr. Lovd-Coorgc's maiden
speech us prime minisier insofar as i
will eavp the door open for dennany
to make concrete peace proposal.
"4
PRICE FIVE CENTS
HOOKER DEFEATED;
STILL HANGS ON
Republican Candidate for As
sessor Fleeted but Demo
crat Will Fijrht.
AGAINST WILL OF PEOPLE
Action of Ronton Man Will Be
Resented by Voters of
Tulsa County.
Seeing that Ihe recount of Vole
asked for hv bun was going to result
111 a vl.lniv fur his i..iouiiit, W.
Honker. I leuiiici al c candidate for as
sessor in the November elecliun, yes
terday withdrew from the case. It. I..
I 'av l.lsou, .itlori cy for Honker, s lid
lasl night that Ins client would no be
fore liulne Culm I.iiiii In the district
court this morning and ask for a writ
of mandamus compelling the county
election hoard to issue him a ceilili-
i ale of election.
That Hooker was defeated In thrt
ch i-iion and knows it, but, true to tho
aliunde displayed , y other ineiuhpr
of the I 'einocrat n- ring in this cinintv,
1: going to try and work a rablut font
on the successful candidate, I-:. N.
North, was the statement last nmht of
A. A. Small, Pei-ubiican county chair
man. Mr. Small lias alteuib-d every
si .-hi. n held bv A. A. Hatch, ii(iolntci
as refer.-.- to recount the votes, unit 1
thoiolv familiar with the case.
No, III (. i .
"When it was found on the face of
Ihe official returns that the assessor
race iunl r suited In u tie between th.
Mcpuidlculi and Democratic candi
dates," said Small, "Hooker Imme
diately went into court ami asked for
a recoiinl, claiming that he had iieeil
defrauded out of Iho election. TI'O
court granted his petition and named
A. A. Hatch as referee. Mr. Hatch
then proceeded to recount the vol..
When they came to thu ballot box
fi-'iii precinct No. 10 .Mr. Hooker oh
lictt'il to II being opened, claiming
that all the Votes cast in that precinct
were Invalid. .Mr. N'oilh received a
majority of about two hundred votes
In this precinct The referee passed
No. 10 for the lime being, and the re
count was to be resumed today. Know,
lug, however, that he was beaten at
Ids own name. Hooker asked that tho
le.'ounl be abandoned. Now he pro
poses to bully his way thru If possible
and g.-t Into office by book or crook.
relying nn bis past allegiance to tho
Ix-inncrtitie par'y lo get him by. it
Is one nf Ihe llllb-st trick that Iih
ever ben played in local politics. Ho
Is dclilJ.itcly trjing to thwart the will
of the voters ot Tubiii county. ' Hy
tbclr ballots thev have express".! &
preference for Mr. North. Mr. North
Is (-ntit'id to the office. Il is about
time that the people of Ibl county
CONTIM ' K 1 1 ON HICK PAOK
ELEVEN BELGIANS EXECUTED
(.ciinaiis Shoot 1'rlsiiiicrs: Make Them
Work on Hie front.
AMSTI-:i:HAM. I'ec. 20. "Of twenty
lielgiai: who had been sentenced t
ib-aih hy a Herman coiirt-martl il of
Hasselt, eleven were shot las'. Satur
day," sivs the .Maastricht l.es N'oil
elles. t-'orty-four other pe'sons wP'
setileneed to various terms of penal
M-rvlli-.le and sixty-four others ir-ib-red
lo (i.-rmany.
The newspaper adds that another
court-martial was begun to bear I11
eases of 1''2 lielgiaiis charged with
espionage.
The frontier correspondent of tlm
Amsterdam Telegiaaf ;isscrls that
niaiiv citizens of ill.ent who were de
ported to Ihe Soinme tront were killed
or very seriously Wounded recently
during a fight by l'rench mm-blnn
guns. The correspondent add-i that :i
thou.-aii.! men from Hhelit are com
pelled to work n that front and that
four thousand more are about l" b'J
sent tberp.
SLAIN THIEVES OKLAHOMANS
g Men Kilbsl by Arkansas rosso
jis( Week WcrcJ'roin Hug".
Sjicdnl In Tin' VA "rl.l.
HOT SPItlNCS. Ark., I'ec.
Ccorge llai'ej ami Damp Sparks, who
wire shot to death last l-'rulav 'iltei
noou in Saline county ill a battle with
a posse ot officers who wire seeking !
arrest tln-in for cattle stcalli, were
Identified lodav as Ceorge and I letup
Inivldsoii, brothers, of Hugo. okla.
Horses and saddles found in p, .-session
of the bandits were also Identified
us hav ing been stolen nt 1 1 into. Tlia
parents of Ihe lion live at Hugo.
BR-R-R.7.DR0PS7026 BELOW
Terrific Cold. However. Is In Nebraska,
Nol In Tulsa.
OMAHA. Neb.. I'ec. 20 - lb-curd-bieaklng
lempei atiir.-s for this si i.ioii
were it net iellccd thruoilt thil sctioil
lodav. Valentine. Neb., r-port
I Iho
coble.-1 as Mi dei: below
ero; sioiijc
I ,"i below ;
l-'alls. 22 degrees; Sioux (
':iv
j x,,i folk.
1 . i below. Line.
I imiiliii vv eathci
in. below,
bureau nave
w bile tin
the therii n-ter H ading at :i o emeu
as 10 below and going down. For
tunately there was very little wind.
Premium I'lmed on the
Heads of Hank Robbers
by Creek County Men
,i !il Cri-i-l. Count! Mur. i l.
SAPl'I.PA. Okla.. Pec 20.- -Wh.it
is sun! lo b" Hi- llrsi ac'ion
of Its kind taken by any similar
oruanU'-tlion In the st ite was the
resolution passed tod IV bv the
Cr.-.-k Cnuidy l.ink-i - a-oci.i-tion
i.ffcriug $l.-'0ii I-' anyone
killing a robber cinu-.l-.t r. ddiiug a
lank or .ift.r he ho-.ihl sec cod.
Vn olfcr of $l.0U Is inane for
the :u list and conviction ol ny
one w ho rol s o- holes up a I auk
In this county Tjlu-re aie twentv
I inks 111 the association and civil
institution pays iM I rcr.it ' sh ire
cf $."!' each. Unbelt C. Hughes
o: Ihe bank of Commerce of
Sapulp.i was elected secretin y of
the asMit iaCon. for the ensuing
year.
