t A
9 -X-
Okolona
SSENGER.
Democratic in Principle, But Independent in Thought and Action. Devoted to'mHonestyt Truth and Good Government.
OKOLONA. MISSISSIPPI. THURSDAY. DECEMBER -11916 1
VOL 44.
No. 52.
WARNING and FINA
NOTIC
Me
On and after the 1st of January 1917 all accounts made with us will be payable on the 1st of each month. After Janriary 15th 1917:
we will positively decline to extend further credit or make any charges to any one not having paid up their 1916 or previous accounts
v . with us. All accounts not paid by February 1st, we will turn over to our Legal department for collection.
So avoid any unpleasantness and pay up promptly. J
Established
1873
J. RUBEL
MP AMY
Okolona,
Mississippi
iProf.
Pate Advises Farmers to
Improve the Soil
Prof. Pate, of the A. & M.
ollege, was in this vicinity Fri-
y and Saturday, holding farm-
rs institutes for the special
enefitof the colored farmers.
'our meetings were held
Walkers Chapel, Redbud, In
dustrial School and the Court
iouse. The meetings were well
attended and good - interest
shown.
Prof. Pate came here at the
request of the Business Men's
Club, but he came with his own
message, responsible to no one,
except the government and the
farmers, for what . he said, and
he delivered that message in his
own way. He wa3 expected to
tell the people how to meet the
weevil situation. This he did to
a nicety, but those who were ex
pecting to her him tell the farm
ers how to grow cotton in any
thing like the old way or on any
thing like the acreage heretofore
planted were sadly disappointed.
His advice was the same as that
of all who have studied the sit
uation. Build up the soil and
make your living at home di
versify and have something to
sell besides cotton. He recom
mends hogs, beef cattle, sheep,
goats, poultry and dairying with
what cotton could then be
grown. But the burden of his
talk was on soil building as the
first and greatest need of this
section. He told the farmers of
the well balanced soil here
naturally and of its one great
need humus, or decaying or
ganic matter. He advised that
humus does seven things as
follows:
1st. Humus is a plant food.
2nd. Humus makes plant food
available.
3th. Humus adds nitrogen to
the soil.
4th. Humus regulate and con
serves the moisture supply.
5th. Humus ventilates the
soil and regulates its tempera
ture. , j
6th. Humus is food and home
for organisms (Bacteria.)
7th. ,. Humus improves the
texture of the soil and gets it in
proper chemical and physical
condititon.
He told his hearers that there
is a million dollars worth of
nitrogen over every acre of land
and that they could draw on
this vast sum almost at will by
planting such crops as peas,
beans and clover and turning
these back to soil and at the
same time supply the much
needed humus.
While he did not mention the
fact, yet it is a known fact ac
cording to a statement we have
in our office, there is mineral
plant food enough in the first
four inches of this soil to make
60,000 bushels of corn, or a yield
of 60 bushels per acre for 100
years, and all that is needed to
do this is to add the nitrogen
and humus which is so so easily
done by growing peas, beans and
clovers. Then, too, every four
inches on down to the rock con
tains an equal amount of mineral
plant food. With this vast
amount of wealth so sasily avail
able, with nothing to do but join
hands with nature and "tickle
the earth with a hoe and see it
smile with a harvest," is it not
strange that men will mine th,e
earth with the plow and burn
the wealth she offers then cry.
"hard times."
Prof. Pate plainly stated,,
"There is no permanent agricul
ture without livestock." These
with legumes plus , mind and
muscle spell success on the farm.
Will you succeed?
CASTOR IA
For Infants and Children
In Use For Over 30 Years
Always bears
the
Signature of
Si
"The Most Attractive Plan for Saving Money Ever Devised"
EUiEK3-MOrJ.EN.BOVS-CIRLS-LITTLE CHILDREN-BABY
SHOULD JOIN OUR
AS .
- , .....
Xmas
next
Christmas.
The Reasons for The K
Christmas Banking Club
To provide a way for those of moderate and even small
means to save money.
To teach thrift to old and young by a systematic method of
saving a specified sum each week. The Christmas Banking
Club makes it easy for all to save.
Saving money is the one sure way to have money.
Most large fortunes began with small savings.
Many small deposits make a large sum; as the amount in
creases, your interest in your balance increases, and it is
that interest, called "the saving habit" that leads to wealth."
To give all "a bank connection" so that they will learn the
many ways in which our bank can be of service to them.
mZlKsM will start
you in our
Christmas
!km Club
, Rcal below .howj'ou
'1 ,."- .'r .'A-.t j r & :
lilt .'TT Vl-iT
Come in ; ask about ii.
WHAT THE DIFFERENT CLUBS WILL PAY YOU
lcClub 2c Club 1 5c Club I 10c Club 50c Club $1.00 Club $5.00 Club Y Pliih
PATMESTS PAYMENTS PAVMFNTS 1 PAYMEMTS PAYMENTS PAYMENTS PAYMENTS VlUU
1st Week lc 1st Week..i. ..2c 1st Week ........5c 1st Week 10c 1st Week 50c 1st Week ..$1.00 1st Week..... $5.00
2nd wS '"" 2c 2nd Week 4c 2nd Week 10c 2nd Week 20c 2nd Week... 50c 2nd Week $1.00 2nd Week $5.00 F0R
3rd Week.::'.::::::::::.3c 3rd Week: 6C 3rd Week ... .15c 3rd Week 20c 3rd Week 50c 3rd Week $1.00 3rd Week $5.00 $2, $3, $l0
Increase every week by lc Increase every week by 2c Increase every week by 5c Increase every week by lUc Ueposit bUe every week Deposit $1.00 every week Deposit ?O.00 every week
Total in 50 Weeks Total in 50 Weeks Total in 50 Weeks Total in 50 Weeks Total in 50 Weeks Total in 50 Weeks Total in 50 Weeks or
$12.75 $25.50 $63.75 $127.50 $25.00 $50.00 $250.00 any amount
YOU CAN BEGIN WITH THE LARGEST PAYMENT FIRST AND DECREASE YOUR PAYMENTS EACH WEEK
THE PLAN OF THE CLUB IS SIMPLE
You begin with a certain amount, lc, 2c, 5c, or 10c and increase your deposit the same
amount each week. Or, you can begin with a certain amount, , 50c, $1.00, $5.00, or any
amount, and deposit the same amount each week.
There is a Club for everybody. Pick out the club you want to join and bring in your
first payment Do it today. . '
How to Join-It Costs Nothing to Join
It is Very Easy to Join Our Christmas Banking Club
All you need to do is to come into our bank with 10c, 5c 2c, or lc, or 50c, $1.00, $5.00
or any amount and tell us which Club you wish to join. We will make yor a member of the
Club and give you a BANK BOOK showing the Club you have joined.
. .GOME IN-ARID ASK ABOUT IT
WE PAY 4 PER CENT INTEREST IN OUR CHRISTMAS BANKING CLUB
OKOLONA,
MISSISSIPPI
