1
Farmer Meets
Instant Death
Jamestown, Dec. 18.—Emil F. Wiese,
a prominent farmer living seven and
one-half miles southwest of Eldridge,
Stutsman county, was instantly killed
at 3 o'clock yesterday afternoon in an
attempt to thaw out a cap on a metal
gasoline tank with a blow torch.
The intense heat from the torch ex
ploded the cap, blowing his head from
the lower jaw up. The body saturated Iowa.
with gasoline and horribly burned, waa
found a distance of 16 or 18 feet from
the tank over which Wiese was work
ing.
A widow and a flve-months-old baby
survive, she being about prostrate over
the tragedy.
Mrs. Wiese, hearing the explosion,
rushed to the scene to discover the
gruesome remains of her husband.
She walked a distance of a mile and a
half and notified neighboring farmers.
Seven on $9 a Month
Pension Is Withheld
Bismarck, Dec. 18.—The supreme
court today was asked to decide whe
ther Bessie R. Nixon, of Fargo, mo
ther and sole support of seven kiddies,
the oldest 11 and the youngest two,
and with an income of only $9 a month,
is entitled to a mother's pension. More
particularly, the court is asked to de
termine whether North Dakota's moth
er's pension act is constitutional.
At the meeting of the Jamestown
Bowling association, the following of
ficers were elected: President, J.
FIRE DEPARTMENT ORGANIZED
AT PARSHALL—BARTH IS CHIEF
SDend
Zl
CT
I
Mi
Dean of Women for
Normal School Named
The position of dean of women at
the State Normal school is to be filled
at the opening of the winter term by
Mrs. Mary Patton, of Chicago, who
was appointed by the state board of
regents at their meeting at Bismarck
Dec. 15.
Mrs. Patton is a woman of broad
education and experience and with ex
cellent training. She is a graduate
from the college department of the
State Normal school at Cedar Falls,
County Judge A. G. Hanson, of Cass,
on the mother's petition allowed her
a pension of $8 per month for each
child, or $56 per month, making the
family's total income $65. State's At
torney Arthur W. Fowler demurred,
but he was overruled. He then ap
pealed to district court, where Judge
Charles A. Pollock, in order to bring
the matter before the supreme court
for a ruling, entered a pro forma de
cision overruling every specification of
error of the appellant and affirming
the decision of the lower court. On
this decision, State's Attorney Fowler laborer named Smith, who works
appeals to the supreme court, on the -,t the
rmi,ltv
grounds that the county judge was
without jurisdiction to give Mrs. Nix
on a mother's pension, inasmuch as
chapter 185 of the session laws of 1915
is unconstitutional.
BOWLERS TO COMPETE AT
JAMESTOWN THIS YEAR
its annual tournament in Jamestown
Jan. 15 to 20, being the dates fixed for
the event. Bowlers of North Dakota,
South Dakota and Minnesota are ex
pected.
She is a woman of broad experience
with life, a widow with one son in
college. It is thought she will be an
admirable adviser to the young ladies
of the Normal school. Her own suc
cess as a teacher particularly fits her
for leadership in a normal school.
The president of the great Iowa Nor
mal school from which she graduated
has written Pres. McFarland as fol
lows "I have seriously thought of in
viting her to take a position here two
or three times, but not having quite
the kind of work she prefers it has
not been done."
Mrs. Patton will arrive in Valley
City in a few days to assume her new
duties. Householders and students
and others having business with the
school will find in her a wise friend
and cultured leader."
Cran vice president, L. W. Hubbard avenue. The affair was given in hon
secretary, O. M. Boettcher treasurer,1
Parshall, Dec. 18.—The Parshall Fire' ing. The house was decorated in red
Department company was organized and green and poinsettias, the Xmas
here last week, C. J. Barth being elect
ed chief Dr. Frogner, assistant chief
H. L. Lokensgard, secretary, and A. O.
VOL. XXXVIII—NO. 38. (Official County Paper) VALLEY CITY, NORTH DAKOTA, THURSDAY, DECEMBER 21, 1916
Subsequently she took her
bachelor's degree from the University
of Chicago and later her Master's de
gree from the University of Chicago
and later her Master's degree from
the same institution. As a teacher she
won success in the public schools of
Iowa, mainly in the eighth grade.
Later she was head of the Latin de
partment of the Central Normal Col
lege at Danville, 111., for more than ten
years and in this position was the con
fidant and guide of the young ladies
of the institution. Later she was for
several years principal of the Francis
Shimer school, Mount Carroll, 111., and
head of the Latin department.
Falling Hoist Injures a
Workman at Postoffice
new
n'dc* was' ^k
post office building, met
an accj(jent
Jamestown, Dec. 18.—The North-! ported he suffered a broken ankle, and
western Bowling association will hold that his hip was crushed, and it is
Monday morninr
about 11 o'clock. He was operating
the hoist inside the building which is
used for raising material from the
basement to the second story, when
in some way the cable broke and the
car dropped about 12 feet. The work
man was caught underneath the car
and was quite badly hurt. It is re-
probable he will be laid up for some
time
HONORED MR. AND MRS. HALL
Miss Jean Smith entertained a num
ber of friends at a dancing party Fri
day evening at her home on Fourth
or
A. B. DeNault. soon to make their home in Chicago.
Mrs. Marguerite Van Praag played for
the dancing, after which a dainty
lunch was served, Miss Florence
Fuglie treasurer. About 30 signed up dance were Mr. and Mrs. Sam Hall, Dr.
a 1 A if I A I
as company members.
O Hustad, of the House of Merit son, Mr and Mrs. Chas. K. Otto, Mr.
jewelry store, left Sunday evening to and Mrs. Marc Harkins, Mr and Mrs. F.
the week at Tower City and E. Ployhar, Mr. and Mrs. E» S. Cole,
Buffalo on business. Mr. and Mrs. L. S. Ward, Mr. and Mrs.
I. J. Wold, Dr. and Mrs. J. E. Jones,
Kennedy was in the city Sun-1 Mr. and Mrs. A. S. Sigurdson, Mr. and
day from Jamestown, registering at Mrs Herman Stern, C. A. Robinson and
the Kindred. K. Mason.
of Mr. and Mrs. Sam Hall, who leave
Eeachem assisting the hostess in serv-
flowers, were used
35 present.
Those who were
WE APPRECIATE
FRANK WHITE
LUDVIG LEE
E. A. MICLELSON
H. J. BEaGAN
There were about
present at the
and Mrs. W. N. Palmer, Mr. and Mrs.
P. J. Hyland, Mr. and Mrs. N. A. John-
We find it hard to account for some of the new business
that comes to us from day to day. We sometimes inquire
and learn that some patron has spoken to a friend about the
facilities which this bank affords. We certainly appreciate
these kind courtesies and take occasion to thank those who
have expressed their approval and commendation of our
service. We accept deposits subject to check in any amount
and pay 5 per cent interest on time and savings deposits.
We have a fully paid-up capital of $100,000.00. We
have $50,000.00 in first mortgage secureties deposited with
the State Treasurer. We are under the supervision of the
State Banking Department. All of our officers and em
ployees are under bonds. We not only offer you good
service, but absolute security.
OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS
Removed to Nome and
Took Charge of Hotel
THE WEEKLY TIMES-RECORD
Mr. and Mrs. S. Thoresen have mov
ed to Nome, where they have leased
the Martin hotel. It is a modern hotel
of 20 rooms, is the only hotel in the
town and they ought to do a good bus
iness there. They were accompanied
by their children, except Hart and Ed.
Hart is night linotype operator at the
Times-Record, while Ed is attending
high school and working at the Chaffee
store. The people of Nome will find
the Thoresens fine people and Mrr.
Thoresen a splendid cook.
ATTENDED THE WEDDING
Mrs. Oscar Aldahl and Mrs. A. C.
Smith were visitors at Litchville Mon
day to attend the wedding of Miss Lil
lian Anderson to Oscar Solberg, of
Fargo.
Walter Emery, the well known
Barnes county fanner, was in the city
Thursday, and left that evening on a
business trip to Forsyth, Mont.
The subject was "Resolved that the
United States should own and regulate
the conduct of the national resources
of the country," with Grand Prairie in
the affirmative and Noltimier the neg
ative. Grand Prairie was the winner.
The Oriska and Getchell Prairie
high schools also debated on the same
subject Friday, and the judges were
Attorney L. S. B. Ritchie, Rev. Willard
Crosby Lyon and J. W. Rodewald,
Oriska had the affirmative side and
Getchell Prairie the negative, Oriska
winning.
Thos. Moffatt and C. Fritsch were
callers in the city Sunday from Uonny
brook, registering at the Kindred.
Mrs. Maria Hinschberger, of San
born, was a visitor in the city Monday.
T. MELVIN LEE
A. MICKELSON
S. MASON
J. E. JONES
Middlewest Loan S Trust Co.
VALLEY CITY, N. D.
mill
Boys Win Prizes
With Erector Sets
The Heidel hardware advertised
some time ago to give prizes for the
best original models made with the
Erector construction toys. The com
pany's representative awarded the fol
lowing prizes Friday:
First prize, $5 in cash—Floyd Lang,
Dazey, age ten years, for a five-horse
binder made from a No. 5 set.
Second prize, No. 4 Erector—Ted
Anderson, age 14, Valley City, a mow
ing machine made from a No. 4 Erec
tor.
Third prize, a No 4 Accessory Set—
Chas. Smith, age ten years, Valley
City, a draw bridge, made from a No.
4 Erector.
Fourth prize, $2 worth of extra parts
—Varnon Krogh, age 13, Valley City,
scales, made from a No. 6 Erector.
Fifth prize, $1 worth of extra parts
—Gordon Keiser, Valley City, age ten
years, an aeroplane, made from a No.
1 Erector.
These models will be on exhibition
until after the holidays at the Heidel
hardware.
SUPERIOR SERVICE
Interscholastic Debates for
County Began Last Friday
We attribute our success largely to the
fact that our officers are neither engaged nor
interested in any other business.
Our Business Is Banking
and it has always received and is now receiv
ing our constant and undivided attention.
What it lacks of perfect service is not be
cause we do not try. We aim to make it—
"4 Good Bank to Do Business With"
BANK OF VALLEY CITY
The Grand Prairie and Noltimier
consolidated schools debated Friday
evening at the Noltimier school. The
judges were Prof. Ross Finney, of the
Normal faculty, Miss Olmstad, of the
high school faculty, and Miss Mar
garet Burns, of the Normal faculty.
Early Normal Graduate
Is Here From Minnesota
Harry Randolf, one of the first grad
uates from the Normal school and a
former resident, who lived on a farm
near the city, was a caller here Friday
from Winnebago City, Minn., where he
is a teacher in Parker college. While
here he visited at the home of Dr. and
Mrs. S. A. Zimmerman.
NORTH DAKOTA GIRL DARES
BOY TO MARRY—HE WAS GAME
Eismarck, Dec. 18.—Girls in Chicago
and other cities in the middle west
who are anxious to be mated, with
North Dakota farmers this winter
might put into effect the scheme which
was adopted by a Drake girl today.
Fearing that the Chicago stenograph
ers might make a dash for North Da
kota, and scoop up all the pretty and
wealthy farmers of the Flickertail
state, this young girl made a bet with
a gentleman friend living at Drake
that he was afraid to marry her. An
automobile was hired, the couple drove
to Towner, and tfte knot was tied.
Yes, North Dakota farmers want
wives.
FURTHER INVESTIGATION AS
TO MOORHEAD DUAL TRAGEDY
Moorhead, Dec. 18.—Killing of
Charles Johnson, and his daughter,
Eva, of Borup, Minn., over a week
ago, was further investigated by a cor
oner's jury today. Johnson's car went
over and icy approach to a river
bridge, crushing out Johnson's life and
drowning the girl.
MIDLAND TRAIN CRASHES
INTO ENGINE NEAR EDGELEY
Edgeley, Dec. 18—During a blinding
snowstorm which raged last week, a
Midland passenger train, running late,
crashed into a Northern Pacific engine
at the crossing a mile north of the
city, tossing the Northern Pacific en
gine into the ditch. By a miracle, it
seems, none were injured.
DUNN! CENTER'S CONSOLIDATED
SCHOOLHOUSE IS DEDICATED
Dunn Center, Dec. 18.—Dunn Cen
ter's $20,000 consolidated school %vas
dedicated last week, the speakers be
ing J. M. Devine, superintendent of tte
state reform school at Mandan, and P.
8. Berg, of Dickinson.
WORK STARTS ON DICKINSON
ROUNDHOUSE—COST $12,000
Dickinson, Dec. 18.—Work started
today on the re-building of the Dickin
son roundhouse which was totally de
stroyed by fire last month. Northern
Pacific carpanters reached here last
week with plans calling for a $12,000
structure to be made as near fire-proof
as possible. Brick walls will be erect
ed between each stall. It is also re
ported that the company will ask the
city to install larger and better fire
facilities, claiming that the Dickinson
fire company is inadequately equipped
to fight a large Are.
IS HERE FROM CANADA.
Mrs. Neil Christianson, of Leth
bridge, Alberta, Can., arrived in the
city Friday evening to spend a month
at the home of her sisters, Mrs. How
ard Clark, Mrs. C. M. Musser and Mrs.
Henry Bond. Mr. Christianson will ar
rive here from Lethbridge the latter
part of January, and from here he and
Mrs. Christianson will go to the Twin
Cities to visit other relatives.
Jurors Selected for
January Court Term
The following is the list of jurors
chosen for service at the January
term of the district, court, as given out
by Auditor Nelson:
John Henderson, Sanborn.
P. F. Soule, Tower City.
C. T. Knudtson, Dazey.
Anton Anderson, Wimbledon.
Simon Syverson, Marion.
Frank Smith, Rogers.
Herb Jones, Marion.
Robert Wittenberg, Valley City.
K. O. Abrahamson, lvathryn.
Henry Borg, Valley City.
Wm. Rohde, Valley City.
W. Van Steenberg, Oriska.
J. S. Stoll, Sanborn.
Ole Stevens, Fingal.
John A. Anderson, Valley City.
John Osborne, Dazey.
E. M. Lavery, Valley City.
M. N. McMichael, Luverne.
Frank L. Widdifleld, Leal.
Hans Oppegard, Dazey.
John Schutt. Page.
P. C. Toste, Wimbledon.
Carl Swanscn, Litchville.
Fred A. Nelson, Valley City.
Geo. E. McLain, Eckelson.
Anton J. Sebby, Fingal.
Wm. Larson, Valley City.
J. J. Engen, Valley City.
Henry Hansen, Valley City.
Robt. Vogel, Valley City.
O. C. Hanson, Dazey.
J. E. Smith, Litchville.
S. J. Russell, Wimbledon.
Gust Knutlson, Dazey.
Ira Mickels, Ypsilanti.
Harmon Hess, Valley City.
0. T. Ols'on, Hastings.
Chas. Grmnan, Oriska.
H. J. Peterson, Litchville.
Henry Brohman, Sanborn.
Local Institution Is Given High
Rating by New York Concern
KEEPING UP WITH CUPID
Litchville Bulletin: Miss Agnes
Peterson and Hans K. Jorgensen were
married at Glendive, Mont., last Fri
day, Dec.
8.
The bride is the second
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. P. N. Peter
son and has grown to charming young
womanhood in this community. She is
well qualified to preside over a happy
home. The groom has lived here the
past six years and is a young farmer
whom to know is to like. Mr. and
Mrs. Jorgenson are at present visiting
relatives at Mandan, and are expected
back here the latter part of the week.
They will be at home on the Peterson
farm in the northeastern part of this
village. The Bulletin extends congrat
ulations for a long and happy married
life.
Invitations have been issued by
Mmes. A. P. Hanson and R. M. Davis
to a parcel shower at the former's
home next Saturday afternoon, from 3 I per cent.
to 5, in honor of Miss Isabel McGillis,
who is to be married on Dec. 27 to
Dr. H. T. Perry, of this city.
Invitations are out for the wedding
of Miss Caroline Olive Olson to Robert
next Wednesday, Dec. 20, at 4 p. m.
Dangerous Mexican Drug Is
Used by Border Guardsmen
Gudmestad. The ceremony is to oc- Company, of Valley City, shows an in
cur at the bride's home at Hastings crease in resources of $128,938.39 or
fVA .. J.
A
... Qtl
ESTABLISHED 1879
THE MIDDLEWEST LOAN & TRUST
COMPANY STANDS HIGHEST IN
INCREASE OF PERCENTAGE IN
COMPARISON WITH OTHER
TRUST COMPANIES IN UNITED
STATES.
The fourteenth annual edition of
"Trust Companies of the United
States," issued by the United States
Mortgage & Trust Company, New
York, is now being distributed.
In the preface, President John W.
Platten says: "The trust companies
of the United States during the year
just closed have had exceptional op
portunities for service to the finan
cial and commercial interests of this
country and to foreign nations as well.
The problems incident to the new po
sition of the trust companies in world
affairs have been met and solved with
courage, while the business openings
resulting therefrom have been availed
of which enterprise and good jugdment.
A noteworthy increase in the business
of acceptances, both foreign and do
mestic, the establishment of well
equipped departments for the handling
of foreign transactions, especially
with Central and South America, and
liberal participations in foreign loans,
are all deserving of special mention.
The work of unifying and improving
existing laws for the safeguarding of
the interests of these companies and
their clients is progressing satisfac
torily, while the administration of cor
porate and private trusts in ever-in
creasing volume is continually evi
denced.
When it is considered that the ag
gregate of trust company resources re
ported during the year increased one
billion, three hundred million dollars
and now totals over seven billion six
hundred* million dollars, the vital and
growing importance of the part play
ed by trust companies in national and
international affairs will be fully real
ized and these institutions continue to
receive a deservedly increasing meas
sure of recognition and support."
The statements of 1,927 trust com
panies are contained in the book, in
addition to lists of officers and direc
tors, stock quotations, dividend rates,
etc., while the names of 95 companies
are shown that did not render a report
for publication, thus making a total of
2,032 trust companies listed.
Just five years ago the aggregate re
sources of these companies reported
in this compilation were $5,168,000,000,
showing an increase of 47 per cent for
all trust companies in the United
States. The showing of trust company
growth in the following states is in
teresting:
New York State increased $531,000,
000 or 25 per cent.
Pennsylvania increased $139,000,
000 or 15 per cent.
Illinois increased $117,00,000 or 18
per cent.
Massachusetts increased 110,000,000
or 26 per cent.
Ohio increased $94,000,000 or 26 per
cent.
New Jersey increased $41,000,000 or
1 3per cent.
Connecticut increased $39,000,000 or
61 per cent.
California increased $35,000,000 or
14 per cent.
Indiana increased $20,000,000 or 18
The total resources of the trust
companies of North Dakota amount to
$1,538,000, again of $346,000, or 29 per
cent, during the past year.
The Middlewest Loan and Trust
r-t
By United Press. o'clock Saturday night in case of the
El Paso, Tex., Dec. 19.—Following state against F. H. Durant, wealthy
discovery today that Mexican labor- Burleigh county farmer, accused of
ers have introduced marihuana into shooting with attempt to kill J. P.
militia camps along the border, cus- Spies, a Bismarck traveling man, on
toms officials are on the alert to check the opening day of the hunting season
smuggling in of the dangerous drug, this year. The verdict came after six
Only a few cases of its use have been hours deliberating
found among the soldiers, mostly. Sentence will in all probability be
among soldiers addicted to other passed by the court this coming Sat
drugs. Secret service men have mem-j
urday.
bers of a band believed to be engaged for an offense of this nature is either
in smuggling and traffic in marihuana, 30 days in the county jail or a fine not
and opium under surveillance and ar- iess than five dollars and not more
rests are expected. The drug is pe- than $100.
culiar to Mexico and is taken in the
form of a cigarette. It is composed
of the crushed leaves of a weed. Hal
lucinations of great physical strength
and valor are induced. At the same
time the user imagines he is a giant
while other persons and objects are
dwarfed.
1
an increase of 51 per cent during the
past year, which is a big credit to
them and their city.
DURANT ISl FOUND GUILTY
OF ASSAULT AND BATTERY
Bismarck, Dec. 18.—A verdict of as
sault and battery was returned by the
jury in tho district court at 9:30
The punishment for an offense
NEW GYMNASIUM IS OPENED
AT WILTON—BIG BOOM ON
Wilton, Dec. 18.—Wilton's new gym
nasium was thrown open to the public
Saturday. Wrestling matches, basket
ball games, indoor baseball, volley ball
and other contests will be staged dur-
INDIAN, LIKE WHITE MAN I ing the winter months. Building oper
IS GOING BACK TO THE LAND, ations here during the past 11 months
have been more extensive than for
Eismarck, Dec. 18.—The Indian, like any other period in the history of the
his white brother, is going back to the city. Besides this new $10,000 addi
land. In 1913, 29,216 Indians were en- tion to the high school, about $50,000
gaged in farming in 1916, 35,822 turn- has been expended in residences.
ed to the tillage of the soil for a livli
hood and are real farmers, according
to figures reported here. The Indian
as a class are apparently making sub
stantial financial progress. Where in I Cavalier, Dec. 18.—Last week Editor
1912 their income from employment Fairchild of the Chronicle, received
and other sources, including their word of the" death *of his sister, Mrs.
farming and stock-raising activities, R. E. Moe, of Portland, Mich. This
was $22,000,000. In 1916 it was more week he received word of the passing
than •$26,000,000. In 1812 approximate- of his eldest and last remaining sis
ly 160,000 Indians had given up their ter, Mi's. Wm. Brad, who had been car
tribal costumes and adopted the habili- ing for her sister.
ments of the white man. During the
past four years ending June, 1916, this Miss Annie Miller was in the city
number has been increased to 30,000. Sunday evening from Sanborn.
EDITOR LOSES TWO SISTERS
WITHIN SPACE OF ONE WEEK
