St
-ST
UNE
THE TRIBUNE'S CIRCULA
TION IS THE LARGEST IN
CAPE GIRARDEAU.
THE TRIBUNE COVRRS j
SOUTHEAST MISSOURI j
NEWSPAPER THAT PRINTS ALL THE NEWS THAT'S FIT TO PRINT AND PRINTS IT FIRST
LIKE THE DEW. i
VOL. XV
THE CAPE COUNTY HERALD, CAPE GIRARDEAU MISSOURI, DECEMBER 21. 1916.
NUMBER 50
8
" rr.
WEEKLY
kH 12 KM - 1
ilYiJLD
k A IT?
WAR
ARMOR PLANT
MEETING TO BE
HELD TONIGHT
FIRE APPARATUS
ACCEPTED AFTER
OFFICIAL TEST
BUFFALO BILL IS
SERIOUSLY ILL;
END MAY BE NEAR
Commercial Club to Outline j Engine Throws Stream of! Indian Fighter Stricken at
Vigorous Campaign to Land ! Water 30 Feet Above the j Sister's Denver
$11,000,000 Project.
Trust Building.
Home.
HE ACTS TO SETTLE GREAT WAR
LEMING SAYS IT'LL MAKES WATER TICKLE HIS FATHER DIED AT
MAKE S. E. MISSOURI THE NORMAL CUPOLA I THE HANDS OF INDIANS
Declares Business Men Must 'Four Firemen Are Scattered
Leave Nothing Undone to j Over Street When High Pres
Briog Plant Here. J sure Is Tested.
HERE ARE THE MEN
WHO WILL PICK SITE
Washington, Doc. 20. Admiral
Fletcher, Commander Frank H.
Clark and Rubin IJ. Backenhaus,
civil engineer of the Boston Navy
Yard, have been appointed by Sec
retary of the Navy Daniels as a
board to select a site for the pro
posed Government armor plate
plant.
This commission will inspect the
locations that have been suggested
and will make their recommenda
tions to the Government. They
will actively begin their investiga
tions earlv in January.
The new fire apparatus was accept
ed yesterday evening at a special
meeting hold at the lire engine house,
after the apparatus had been given its
1
( official te.-t in the presence of the
Mayor and seven ccuncilmen. Jack
Fowler was the or,
man.
Councilman Bowman witnessed the
Cody Slew Famous Chief in Hand
to Hand Duel on
Plains..
Denver, Dec. 20. Col. William F.
Cody, "Huff a! -j Hi!!," is seriously iii
here at the homo of his sister, Mr.-.
May Cody Dtckei.
Member.- of the. Cody family have
bee a summoned here .'ijroni Buffalo
ibsent council-! Bill s rancn at Cody, W;.o. Col. Codv,
who is 70 years old, suffered a general
physical and nervous breakdown upon
tryout of the engine at several places, jnis return from a tour of the country
but could not attend the meeting, be- i with the "101 Ranch" Wild West Show,
cause of important business matters.'11 which ho interested,
ho said. j William I". Cody was born in Scott:
Walter 1) VAnrl the note mom- ' """ly, . CO. JO, IS-iO. His lather
A special meeting wil lbe held to
night at the Commercial Club to dis
cuss further plans for this city's cam
paign totue the huge Government ar
mor plate plant located in the Cape.
The meeting will be open to every
one, and everyone jvho.has sugges
tions to make will be expected to be
at the meeting.
The commission that will select the
site for the plant was appointed Tues
day. The members are residents of
Boston, but were named because of
their knowledge of munition plants.
The aDDlication of all the cities that
ber of those present who voted against
accepting the machines. The other !.m .ut;u.k jnt;Llns
was a frontiersman, who was killed
while defending a wagon train from ,
live, Rruivkc, Kaess, Aringardt, Sea-1
graves and Medley voted to accept
cd. Mr. Medley got out of a sick-bed
Cody, when still young, became a '
in order to be at the meeting. He wit- j
V 1 t TV. 4. V JTL'
j.
'S .J- I
4.S.
5
1
4 t
TO?'
5
I
at least "0
ncrire to nave mis puini, which is iu, . ,
, , ... way and Fountain street, tlie engine
be a ?ll,OW),UUO cstaDiisnmem. !(lfve; , such
be placed in the nanus oi tins '"m-. Qf water was hur
mission early in January.
Cape's application for the project is
contained in a brief which will be sent
to Congressman Russell of this dis
trict, who has already promised to n
sitt the Commercial Club in securing
the nlant for the Cape. In this brief
crack shot and while sti! in hisj
I teens took his place amoasr the men !
of the fioi.tiev in iho laiigdi-ous work '
of ki'onlr r? the v"'-!:i tvi;' t,ym ha. i
nessed only one test and waited for j ,t " i
I i .u r L L K ill C i I L-.
il . a1 . ii ...... -i . . '
me return oi tne otner cmmciimen at; j imio he became a Government
the engine house. "pony cypress" rider, but soon after
The demonstration attracted a great j -i0'1'0'' the Seventh Kansas Cavalry, in
crowd at all places where the tests j wh;ch hc served through the Civil
were made. Earl Robinson, president j VV:,r untii hf was mustered out in
of the concern which manufactures the j
machines, came from St. Louis to be; H" '-Kiel his title of "Buffalo Bill"
present when the apparatus was tried i in lf6- when the Kansas Pacific Rail- i
out. iroiul was under con.-truction by killing iDAV Pfl A CTC flMHrD
buffaloes to supply the workmen with , DU I jJt J i l3 U11DLll
; ft0d.
In 1872 he was elected to the Xe-
" i .,... i ..: i.,4 tti ii. , i
feet t Broad-' v J-1 1 ih h luo inuian
.a: oi iKo oat in i ."- tj no ottered Jus
f
' i
1
PRESIDENT
ION BELLIGER
i
i
TO
CALLS
ENTS
ING PEACE
iAlso Asks All Neutrals and the
Pope to Join United States in
Movement to Settle Great Strug-
gle.
BERNSTORFF SAYS ACTION IS
!
THE WORLD'S MASTER STROKI
4.;
Diplomats in Washington Electri
fied by Executive's Message
Stone SureltWillEndHostilities.
WOODROW WILSON.
Th pumping machine was given a
thorough test at six diffeernt placts.
The stream was sent to the heighth
AUTO BUT IS UNHURT
power that the stream j Pm"ifl,s lo the nment as a scout, j Eilisson Morris Sled is Dragged
nled over the llimmel-: Tn the batt,p of Im1i:l:i ! bv Wheels of Car For
!out in front of the battle lines and met
the Chi-ycnne ChieJ", Vellow j Hand. I
berger-Hanison Building
to 1(J reet. i
The first test was made at the who' :,t tho ,ieafj of hi bvos, had j
! taunted tody to a duel with huntme-
20 Feef.
Ellison Morris, 15 years old. had
1 " j-y 1 I'll 1 M y. . i 1 1 1 CVAtf r-i- n n a wnu ,J,x..lt. 1.
I Knives. v.ouy Killed tne ..niet alter:' " xji hum u.uh yesisr
corner of Good Hope and Frederick (
efforts Vrnm iViern t li fnoino v:is
taken to the corner of VriU-V.ms andia han,l-tu-han combat which was not day afternoon when he coasted into
I !..' ; t, - i... .1,,. t.i: .
Lorimier streets, in front of the bun-, "-' v "s,an autoinobue dnven by Will Vedder,
galow of R F. Braun, which was de-!
or Codvs followers.
McCLINTOCK CRACKS
BOWLING RECORD
Totals 649 Pins in Three Games,
Yet His Team Loses to
Capahas.
the advantages of Cape Girardeau proved by fire a week ago. because - -
., the proper fire combatting apparatus ; UU1 h -('(, w'l n1,
over other cities are given wide space with the rank of C
! For his sen-ices during the Indian
It is shown that Cape Girardeau is a
centrally located city with all river
and railroad facilities that are neces
sary for such a plcnt.
The brief will be accompanied by a
plat on which the location of Capo
Girardeau is advantageously shown.
Cape Girardeau on this plat is pictur
ed as the center of a large territory,
in which rich ore and coal fields are to
be found, and in fact all raw materials
that would be used in the armor plate
plant. A copy of this plat will be sent
to all the Congressmen from Missouri,
and to United States Senators Reed
and Stone. Besides a number of Con
gressmen whose districts could not be
considered in this proposition will be
asked to boost Cape Girardeau in this
matter.
M. E. Leming, the incoming presi
dent of the Commercial Club, said last
night that nothing would be left un
done to secure this project for Cape
Girardeau. "This is not only a Cape
Girardeau proposition, but a Missouri
proposition," he said, "and for that
reason the entire State should come
to the aid of the Commercial Club of
Cape Girardeau. The advantages this
plant will bring with it are numerous,
so great that they cannot be realized
at the present time."
"In five years the population of the
Cape will be ten times greater than it
is now. It would not be necessary to
erect the plant on the outskirts of the
city, just so we get it between here
and Thebes."
(Continued on page five.)
was not to be had
The third test was made at the in
tersection of Main and Themis streets.
A 1arf crowd gathered and witnessed
the exhibition. The water shot through ' lowing his discharge f torn the
the hose and reached a height of more! arm' he came East and was ,'ntl'ce'1
than 100 feet ' on sa"e y on"ers from various
From there' the engine was driven i enterprising theatrical managers. His
to the Himmelberger-Harrison Build- j carI' ventures for the most part were
. x .-j a-.j ii... failures, and be returned to Wvominfr.
mg. I his was ine most rigin tesi mai . . .
the engine was put through
i at the intersection of Spanish and In-
I .Inimilnnnn . .-i , . . I Tl. 1. - . . A. 1 ."
ade Chief of Scouts, 1 1 w vM,t
Colonel, and remained ; rrrTI' 111 between the front and rear
in the service of the Government until wheels, but was not touched owing to I
the Indian troubles were finally set- j the fact that the automobile dragged
tied. ' .. tj ..;! i . rr-1
mi" mcu wunuui overturning it. i ne
It pumped at this corner for at least
half an hour, during which time the
pressure was kept from between 22."
to 2."5 pounds to the square inch. The
crowd that gatheied i-ere was so great
that traffic was held up for a long
time. The street carr, wers not allow
ed to pars the crossing because the
hose had bee nstretcbed across the
tracVs.
The vater va pl .yod tn sever -i
trees it this cornet In few minutes
the trees were covered with icicles,
some a few feet long. Shortly after
the engine had left the place the chil-lo-ren
began coasting down the icy
street.
"he crowd that witnessed the "fifth
tPFt at the corner or Lvltevue' and
Sprigg streets, was drenched, and the
four firemen were slightly hurt, when
the nozzlfe broke away from the fire
men. The crowd, numbering several
hundred, fled in all directions, seeking
shelter from the icy water, while the
firemen lay on the ground after be
ing knocked down by the force of the
wate. The engine had to be stopped
in order to again get ccntrol of the
hose.
The pressure of the water was so
(Continued on page 5)
T OOA t. . A l 1 a 1 t
in irv"M ne came r.asi wnn tne nrsi
Wild West show ever seen in this
country. His success was almost in
stantaneous, and his show grew in
size yearly.
He made a tour of the world with
every monarch in Europe. While in
Russia lie conceived the idea of bring-
Two local bowling records were shat
tered la:?t night in the match of th"
Ideals against the Capahas at the
Broadway Bowling Alleys. Earl lc
Cliniock, of the Ideals, made a high
ir irk of 649 pins, while the Capahaa
totaled 2597 pir.s in the three games.
The Ideals were beaten by more
than 100 pins, despite the high score of
McClintock. Xot another man of his
i team passed the 500 mark. Of the
' f 'onulinc Vim .vot- nnli Ann ivir M ,i
i vufunuui iiv l if Vllttl VIII 111,111 1 d . I U
to pass this mark.
McClintock's nearest rival was fully
UK) pins behind him. This was Henry
boy was frightened but unscratched
loung orris ana a number o
friends were coasting down Independ
ence street, during the noon hour. Ved
der was driving his automobile south j Holder of the Capahas with a total
on Spanish street at a moderate ratejof 549 points in the three game3.
of speed. He did not see the boy tin-, The Ciprhas lost only one of the
til it was too late to avoid the acci-j three games and won the other two
dent. by a wide margin. Friday night the
Mr. Vedder threw on the emergency j Wizards will meet the Wonders. They
brake with such force that the wheels j are considered the weakest teams of
his aggregation of rough riders andjWere .-topped and the momentum of the league.
Indians, an dwas decorated by almost the machine carried it for about 20! The core for the three irames nlav-
ftet. The sled on which the boy lay.
slid directly in between the wheels
ing back to America a band of Ural.ami jt appeared that the youth would
Cossacks, and the success of this ven
ture induced him to add Arabs, Sin
galese," Japs, South American Gauchos
and representatives of almost every
nation in the world to his show.
be crushed under the wheels. The
sled, however, retained its balance and
was dragged along until the auto came
to a full stop.
A large crowd gathered after the
In 1905 he formed a partnership j arcident, believing the boy had been '
with Major Gordon B. Lille ("Paw
nee Bill), which proved the beginning
of his financial downfall. In 1911 the
show went into the hands of a re
ceiver and Codj announced himself
"dead broke."
badly hurt. He was taken to a physi
cian's office, where an examination
showed that he was unhurt. Ellison
then went back to school.
West Show, and he finished out the
Numerous friends came to his res-'circus season with them.
cue, and late in the spring of 1914, H.
H. Tammen, of Denver, who owned
the controlling interest in the Sells
Floto Circus, put G$Iy at the head of
that enterprise, and at the age of 6S
the venerable frontiersman again
mad-? his bow to crowded grandstands.
In 191G the Miller brothers, owners
of the 101 Ranch, at Bliss, OkIa- of
fered Ccdy an interest in their Wild
In November, 1916, he showed signs
of fast failing health and returned to
his home in Cody, Wyo., where, on
Daeember 18, he was reported seri
ously ill.
He , was married in 1868 to Louisa
Frederici and has not children living.
Although Cody was an expert shot
with all firearms, h was not erne of
the "bad mn" type prevalent during
ed last night were:
Ideals.
Vogel 155 167 125 447
Gockel ISO 171 126 477
Sandman 160 140 1C7 467
McClintock 229 206 214 649
Oberheide 154 146 149 449
878 830 781 2489
Capahas.
Morgan 152 157 164 473
Hohler 176 177 196 549
Wittmor 170 180 185 535
Meystedt 1. 159 167 193 519
Blind 157 212 148 517
814 897 886 2597
the settlement of the West. He was
never known to lull a white m3n in
a sort of a "gun fight." His physial
qualities ctado him feared among the
riff-raff of the frontier. He was often
known to take a gun away from a
so-ealled "bad mia and administer to
the ofiT!?r a terrific beating.
j Special Dispatch to The Tribune.
j Washington, Dec. 20. President WUm.-ii io:?:..jh: took the initiative ti r,
i .tove peac in Europe and t ertabii:-!: w ha; h hones jl b.i -.-. ..rid-v. id
j tranquility.
lie has cabi.M a me.-sage to all of the b, iligrrents in Europe ::v.d even
neutral nation ha- beer, a kr-d to aid t! ' " i i ! StMr-s in settling the Eur
r.e.n; coniiict.
Independent of tin peace sutgf.tin mrtde by tin Teutonic Al'ir.-. presi
dent Wilson has called upon all of the beiiicient-i to "learn hew r;.:a ti.t
h iv n of pece mn lie for which a'l oKr.-.V-!: 1 loiij's v i:h :nten.;e ai.-i
in.'te. si-.g longing."
The Ai;ierican . xeei.tive do-1-; not ;iropo.-r- peace, neither .!ot lit oiTei
mediation. H d-vs. however, call upon the belligerents to "co.nu.ire thei;
view-; as to terms upon winch peace may be established.
Th announcement of the President's notion, was made pei.w.allv tinoog".
Secretary of State Lan.-dng. The givato.-t secrecy had shrouded ;h.. aeti -.
of ti'f Frrvider.t. The message was oivparod by him personally after :i !oriLr
conference with th niemers of his Calin-t, and was dispatched e..,
to the I'nited SU-Uv Ambassador.- and ministers throughout the world.
Officials here uo-.dar" t'i'y believe all of the belligerents must heed the .io.
neal of the United States. Ambassador Bernstorfl. the German Ambassa
dor, announced that it was the great stroke that was r.eede to restore v. a:
ridden Europe to it.-, senses. He t it l.e known that the President's ai i
mn with his lieait approval, and while lie d'c!ind to discuss the me. -sageU
length, he said the belligerents could not ignore the wishes of the
United States-, which, in his opinion, was the one power on earth that ouV
Ftip between the warring nations.
The British Embassy announced that no .-tatemer.t would be n ade up i
President Wilson's action, except to say that the note would do no barm.
Th" French Embassy made public a similar statement, but the ranking diplo
mats of these two nation.- rushed to the White House as .-oon as they v eje
handed a copy of Woodrow Wilson's appeal to the world.
Il was announced bv the State Department tonight that a majority, if noi
all of tho neutrals. nd th Vaticun.w ii! join the United States in ua elf r
to not only end the war. but to make further ror.rtict.- of thi - stupendo-;
character impossible.
Two notes, practically the same, were forwarded to the Er.tont- and Tea
tonic allies. They were appeal.-- in behalf of civilization to consider pea .
President Wilson asked that the belligerents make suggestions to this coun
try as to what terms they would consider peace.
These suggestions will be kept contidential and will be made the ha-i.-of
another public statement by President W:I.:on and nay take the form
of a conference of neutral.-?.
Diplomatic representatives of the belligerent nations as weil as the re pre
sentatives of all neutral Powers in Washington were furnished with copi:
of President Wilson's message, and almost immediately there was a rush
diplomatic callers to the White House.
When the news became generally known its effect was electrical. The opio
ion was expressed even-where that such a proposal could not be reiecte.1
without giving offense to the great masses in the bel'rgerent countries. wh
are the greatest sufferers as a resultof the war.
Tonight no other topic was discussed in Washington, Corgi essmcn
United States Senators congregated to exchange views and foreign diplo
mats were just as interested. JsgV'
Senator Stone of Missouri, chairman of the Foreign Relations Com
irittee, was pleased at the President's action. "I believe it will result ; :
pease," said the Missourian. "I am pleased beyond expression at our Presi
dent's action, and I sincerely believe :'t will mark the closing chapter of tiv
great conflict which has impoverished all Europe. I am convinced th..'
the nations engaged in the unprecedented struggle have long ago realize
their mistake, and they are, in niy opinion, ready to accept the first oppor
hraity to end it. It is especially pleasing tf m tr knor- that a really etfec
tive step in the directicn of peare has been takr. and ! am rrond t tao..
that America toelt the levl" .
(Contluned on page six.) , -
i
