te Historical Society
Taney
OUNTY
EPUBLICAN
Vol. .. No. (i.
KOKSVTII, MISSOURI, Til U USD AY, DKCKMUKU L'l, 1910.
Four Pages.
Missouri's State Taxes.
It is difficult to make comparison
of states as to expenditures, from
statistical compilations, owing to the
diversity of practices and benefit.
S.,rae states, for example, have r evenue
producing school funds while others
aid their common schools chiefly
through direct taxation. Smie have
built roads at state expense, while in
others the roads have been built by
counties or special road districts.
New York has spent millions on the
Erie Canal. Some states are without
bonded indebtedness sod thus bear no
interest and sinking fund burden.
Eut statistics are available to prove
that Missouri is not so burdened with
state taxes that it cannot afford to in
crease its revenues to care for actual
needs. The Eureau cf Census in its
report on per capita levies of ad valor
em taxes for 1912 shows that the Mis
souri levy was only 810 58. The j
average for the United States was 813.
91. The average for the New England
States was $18.53, for the Middle At
lantic States 817.71, for the East
North Central States 815.38, for the
West North Central States 815.06, for
the Mountain States 818.45, and for
the Pacific States 823.28. Only the
Southern States had a lower average
per capita levy. That of Missouri was
lower than that of any other state in or
north o! its latitude.
The State rate per 81000 valuation
is likewise very low in Missouri, being
81.80 on what the state officials re
ported to the New York World's Al
manac was a 40 per cent valuation.
This includes the levy for interest and
sinking fund. Cu 100 per cent basis
it would be 72 cents per 81000 valua
tion. Using the same basis the rate
in other states would be as follows:
Iowa, 81 22; Illinois, 81 60; Kansas,
81.20; New York, 81 46; Oklahoma,
83.50; Kentucky, 83. Nebraska, Si.-1
36; Washington, 83.43; Utah, 84 26.
California, New Jersey, Delaware and
Pennsylvania levy no property taxes
state purposes, nising their revenue
in other ways, but, aside from them,
Indiana is tne o:ilv state with a lower
rate than that of Missouri. Whatever
is wrong with Missouri, it is not the
exorbitance of i:s ad valorem state tax
rate. Globe Democrat.
Farmsrs' Wee!', 1917.
"Farmers' Week. 1917, is Mis
souri's agricultural congress convening
in Columbia on the first day cf the
New Year the people's own meet
ing, a round-table council of country
life for five days and Lights.
Everybody is welcome. Although
it is not cecessary to be ap pointed as
a delegate to be received fa full fel
lowship, county courts, commercial
clubs, granges, unions and farm clubs
are r.q tested to send delegates.
Each reader is askid to bring this
question up bel re his trganizalion
and ask that one delegate be appoint
ed for each ten members County
Courts name one ptrsou for each
township. Special delegations of to.rn
and country folks are being made up,
and some will come in special pull'
mans which will be used for sleeping
quarters during the week.
The forenoon at d afternoon farmers'
short course program has been an
nounced by the College of Agriculture,
and is better than ever before. From
3:00 to 5:)0 p. rn. each day the more
than twenty state-wide associations will
hold annual sessions, each state sec
rotary calling his sessions and plan
ning inderendtr.t program. A state
convmtion of larm clubs has also been
Called lor Farmers' Week.
O i Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday
and Thursday nights the State Board
ol Agriculture has prepueda program
of gt-ner 1 rare ol interest, some por
tion cl wMich i l prove a tractive to
each niMt' .ct il the f;n i.y aho may
B'ter.d
Toe F.rnr:' h- q " ii kttven
Oi Friday iiig.lt : K .;h ! G) ':
I :mby the College ! Atr,c j! w.
R .istT and receive b'..!'4J at H2
AICU-IMC ilUlldllig.
Horns-made Bread Best.
Home-made bread, if well made, is
to be preferred over bakers' bread,
according to Miss Addie D. Root, of
the Missouri College of Agriculture.
The condition of the yeast used in
bread making is more important than
the kind of yeast. If yeast is allowed
to stand in a dusty place or is put into
an unstcril'zed vessel, it will colect
bacteria anl.the tread will hae a sour,
unpleasant taste. All utensils and
liquids should be scalded before useing.
Yeasts are small plants which need
air. Flour, therefore, should be add
ed slowly and beaten into the liquid
thoroughly to incorporate air. Sugar
is food for the yeast plant and if given
to it will hasten its growth.
If dough is too stiff, a harsh, crumb
ly bread results. Thi least amount of
flour possible to avoid a sticky dough,
gives the best bread.
The quick even stroke in kneading
counts for more than the strength put
into it. A thorough kneading distri
butes the yeast plants evenly through
out the dough and results in bread of
the best texture as the gas bubbles
rise evenly. Dough shouid be knead
ed until it has a smooth velvety sur
face. If kneaded longer than thirty
minutes, the elastic quality is com
pletely destroyed.
Yeast plants thrive at a temperature
of from 79 to 95 degrees Fahrenheit.
When dough is set to rise, it should be
placed in a clean bowl. If the bowl
is covered tightly and an even tem
perature maintained, it is not necessary
either to oil or moisten the surface to
prevent a crust from forming. If the
temperature is too high, the bread
will be dark, coarse, and sour. If the
dough is chilled while rising, the
volumn will be smaller, the texture
rubbery, and an undesirable crust will
form. Best results are obtained when
dough is kept at a gei.tle, warm, even
temperature until it is twice its bulk,
and then worked.
Baking requires as much care as
mixing, kneading and rising. The
temperature of ihe oven should be 360
degrees Fahrenheit when the bread ii
placed in it. It should be allowed to
rise alter filteen minuets and lowered
after thirty minutes. The bread should
begin to b'.osn in patches during the
first fifteen minutes and should hive
an even brown surface after thirty
minutes If the dough is not twice
its origi ial bulk or as light as desired,
it may be allowed to finish rising in
the oven.
Quantity Of Feed Important for Winter
ing Dairy Cows.
Quantity of feed ranks next to the
kind of feed in dairy rations. Eco
nomical feeding demands that caws be
fed as individual:, and not as a herd.
Too frequently each cow in a hirJ is
fed the same am aunt of grain, regard
less of how much milk she is produc
ing. By this practice some cow. will
be uid:rfed, while others will be
overfed.
It should be undetsood that an
animal always uses a certain amount
f the food it receives to maintain the
uody. This is the first use to which
.he food is put, and is called the ra
tion of maintanance. This amount is
required by the animal whether or not
she is producing milk. All feed
above this amount is used for milk
production, or is stored on the body of
the animal as fat. In the case of the
young animal part of this excess is
used for growth.
0 the two mistakes made in feed
ing perhaps underfeeding is the most
common, according to H. C. E.-kles
of the Miicun C 'liege of Agriculture
It is a serious mistake to feed a cow
only enough to keep up her body.
She must receive feed to keep her
milk production up to capacity. If a
cow looses weight white in milk, the is
not receiving sufficient food. A good
cow, if not fed enough, will produce
milk I. r a time at th- expense of her
..ody; that is, she will take the surplus
ft: n from her body and convert it
' into milk and thereby will lose live
weight. Ou th orh'r f.vA, when a
Cuw is oveiftd she will beiu to fatten
in a short time. This condition may
be corrected by giving her only the
amount she nends for maintenance and
for milk production. Such feeding
will maintain practically a uniform
weight.
Roughness is the first important con
sideration in feeding cows. A cow is
not contented unless her stomach is
full. She should always have all the
fitghness that she will clean up ard
, then the amount of grain she receives
shoul 1 be regulated by the amount of
i milk pn 1 ic-d. A dry corv in good
condition should be fed roughness
! only, and does not need any grain.
In feeding grain to miik producing
Icows, the following rule may be used,
land is found to work fairly well Feed
1 1 pound of grain for t ach 3 pounds or
pints of milk produce 1. A Jersey cow
I producing very rich miik may netd a
A iflm'if (ElirUilnuui fa fmt
i
send you
ere Soine
CHRlSTMAo
QaEEDINqoP ' '
yi&K fjypu
HdppmeSS
We extend to all our readers and friends the
season's greetings, A Merry Christmas and a
Happy and Prosperous New Year.
The Republican Office Force,
Frank F. Baily
Lula E. Baily
G. Herbert Phillips
Guy M. Everett
Oscar Parrish
little more grain than the .unount
given.
Farmers' Week Programs.
"M'ssouri Farmers' Week" opens
at Columbia on New Year's Day, and
Secretary Jewell Mayes of the State
Board of Agriculture authorij'es the
announcement of the following ac
ceptances'! distinguished talent.
Monday night Dr. A. Ross Hill,
President of the University; President
P. P. Lewis of the Eoard of Agricul
ture; Dean F. B. Munlord cf the
College cf Agriculture; S'ate Superin
tendent Uel W. Lamkir.j Dr. H. J.
Waters, President of Kansas Agricul
tural College.
Tuesday night Honorable Carl
Vrooman, Assistant Secretary of Agri
culture, Washington, D. C ; Dr. Ptrry
G. Ho'.den, Chicago, Uliuinis.
Wednesday night J.iarlei S. Bar
rett of Georgia, National President of
the Farmers' Union; John A. Mc
Sparran of Pennsylvania, National
Grange; Dr. Clarence J. Owens, Sec
retary (J the National Association of
State Commissioners and Secretaries
cf Agriculture, Washington, I). C.
Thu sday Dijht List night pro-C.r.-m
r.ot ccrrpletcd, but the invita
tions included Mis Margaret Wilson,
Ilerbeit Quick cf the Federal Farm
Lin iaVard, R. A. Long of Kansas
Ci'y, Governor elect Frederick D.
G miner, and Sir Hornce Piunkett of
Dublin, Ireland.
Pans are made to secure Professor
W. R. Gralnui of On'ario Agricultural
Co'.-.t g, C juin.issi user E. J. Watson
of South C'lm. and certain women
speaki t ., Ti.e l7.,',.'eT-.ty Band is ex
ptrud to l a.- sh. music for two nights.
Fr:.J..y i.:.;l.t The Krmers' Ban
quet, ty tin- College if Agriculture of
re Uit vt im'.v.
if- -,
Standardizing Food.
When you ask for a can of condens-
! ed milk at a grocery store, what do
Jyou think you ought to get?
j That question has probably never
; worried you, but it has worried the
, Bareau rf Chemistry for a longtime
That organization is entrusted with the
( enforcement of the pure food and drug
I law which is designed to prevent the
misbranding and adulterating of all
I sorts of food products.
Now strictly defined, condensed
milk would mean any milk from which
apart of the water hid been remjved
if that part were only one tenth per
cent. But if your grocer sells for ten
cents a tiny can of milk which is only
a little mor condensed than fresh milk
h : is cheating you. Y;t if the govern
i nuent wants to prosecute him it must
pnve that the milk lie sill was wrong
ly called condensed milk. And to do
f
1
'Jt,"V
VfiU
m
this it must summon into court many
witness to give expert testimony as to
what may fairly be called condensed
milk.
That at least, was the situation a few
years ago. It soon became clear to
the officials entrusted with the enforce
ment of the pure food and drug law
that behre they could have much suc
cess iu preventing the misbranding and
adulterating cf foods, they must decide
what those foods are. For when you
come to think of it, a sardine is merely
anythiug that anybody wants to call a
sardine, and American cheese is what
ever somebody makes and labels that
way. This does not apply to drugs
because there is pharmacopeia of the
United States on which each of these
drugs is defined, and its exact chemic
al composition set down. So that when
you buy quinine sulphate, you may be
reasonably sure that you are getting
that drug as provided in the pharma
copeia. Otherwise the manufacturer
of it would be liable to prosecution
These officials saw that what they
neeaed was a pharmacopeia ol foods,
so to speak, so that when you say
noodles or macaroni or vinegar cr maple
syrup, jou mean something just as de-
finite in composition and quality as j soda waters have also been standard
when you order quinine sulphate or 1 ized and defined. Now cheeses are
peroxide of hydrogen or scdium phos
phate. To this end the secretary cf agricul
ture appointed about three years ago
a committee cf nine state and federal
chemists to draw up such a pharma
copeia of foods. The committee h,u
been working eversir.ee, and it has ac
complished soai.-thing, but only a lit
tle for the taik is an immense one and
there is no appropria.ion to pay f r the
vast number of special analyses nec
ce ssary.
Now and this is what we h ive been
car. fully loading up to ail this t:me ai.
ipprofriaMou ol 85.000 has
i-ked by the U.-partnieit of Aj-i: ul
aire, so that it may carry this nn; it
ant work to completion. Toe item h
beeu placed in the appr ip.im n bil
which is now in the hau ls of the Ap
propriation Cotiiniiiu e, and will come '
before this short session of Congress. '
If you want to see a fine (xampie of
how progressive legislation fares in Con
grcss watch the fate of this little ap
propriation. Likewise if you believe
that a cracker should be defined once
and lor all, so that nobody can tell you
one made ol sawdust, write to your con
gressman and tell him to vote for this
appropriation.
As vou can see, this standardization
of food is a logical necessity to the en
forcement cf the food and drug law. It
ought to have been done in the first
place. When practically all kinds of
food have been defined and standard
ized and these standard definitions have
been published, a great work will have
been accomplished tor both th: pro
ducer and the consumer. There is no
doubt but what these standards when
published by the government, wili have
almost the force of law, and that a pro
ducer for sxample, who labels a
product maple syrup when it is not
made of maple sugar will be r ad;ly
convicted of misbranding as soon as it
is shown that his product does not con
form to the government standard.
Furthermore the officials of a large
number of the states are empowered
to fix or promulgate standards for foods
and these will almost certain'y adopt
thi government standards thus giving
them the force of law, and making
them uniform for the whole country.
N.w it is evident that the measure
will in reality be a boon to the honest
producer. If he is manufacturing a
genuine macaroni, fot example out of
durum wheat ground in the proper way
and a competitor puts out a macaroni
made of ordinary flour, the letter will
not be allowed to call his product mac
aroni, and the maker of the genuine
product will be in great measure pro
tected from his competition.
In spite of this fact, however; atom
eys for many manufacturing interests I
make it their business to oppose any
legislation which would in any way re
strict the freedom cl the manufacturer
and there are also a great man; con
gressman who find that their interests
are identical with those of the manu-
l. ....... .L. -
I Mtiuics. iicijlc uic appropriation oi
I funds for the completion of this work of
standardization will meet with a good
deal of opposition. Such minor bits
of legislation as this, occupying only a
paragraph in a big approppriation bill,
are never even heard of by the major
ity of voters. They never become
campaign issues. They are not sub
subjects for oratory. That is why so
many of them are peacefully and quiet
ly killed or buried alive in the pigeon
holes of comittee rooms. And yet
many of them like this one are cf the
greatest importance.
Many food standards have already
been published by the committee
which has been at work for several
years, but the task will never be com
pleted without a special appropriation.
Nevertheless great progiess has been
made along some lines. Condensed,
dried and malted milks noodles, maca
roni, spagetti, vermicelli, about twenty
food oils and nearly thirty spices have
been standardized. These were some
of the varieties of food for the protec
tion of which definitions were especi
ally needed. Soda water flavors and
coming in for consideration. The im
mense labor involved in establishing a
standard may be judged from the fact
that cheeses will have different mois
ture contents in different climat.s and
that allowance for this vaiation must be
made in fixing the standard. This
means that many specimens of a given
kiu i of chiesa muit be amlyzjd be
fae the standard can be definately
fixed.
Even after nhundant analyses have
b.m mid', these stand ir la are
not arl ritiry fixed by the committee
but ,:re dettrriiiiifd only after consul-
u !'i "i with the producers, sometimes by
correp.ii:d.T.cc. The resuhaat stand
ard gi li rally it rc.Mi.ts an agrcane. t
et vn n ihe seift.-iit a:i-l the ,t 'dire r
s to win; a f.vtn ; r au;.t ought to be
To .ii'- pnxi jc. r lu.il sUni't.iiii z,;u n
n' "
1111
i'Mu cti.'u li' in ir.Usr COIIiJI f
li. i'j it ruf.ius tint you j,et
wh it you atk ! r at tae grocery
liy troric J H.itkirs.
stor '
Sj.tij lid Cabinet.
European ciniti nny corn and
go, but Mr. Wilson veems bent on
holding his to,je her, rnvsttuiwus as it
seems to even soim of his s'.uicii. st
admirers. It is n m ..nnuunct J ttiat
the only possible change is iu tu. De
partment of Justice, and the Washing
ton dispatches make t M comtry hope
ful that Attorney General Gregory will
stay if his going is to make peace for
McCurmick, the rah rah chuimnn ol
the Democratic National Ci rnmittee,
or Francis J. Ileuey, the impossible
California poseur. Secretary llu.ti.n aud
Secretary Lane have very favoraj.r im
pressed the country, so (ar as their
regular duties are concerned. Secre
tary Garrison resigned the war portfolio
because he could not subordinate his
official obligations to what his chief
conceived to be the exigencies of
politics. His successor. Secretary Ba
ker, made several bad breaks duriug
the campaign, especially in his com
parison of the Revolutionary veterans
with th? Mexican bandits but the
coun'ry has not decided on his official
competency. He seems to be follow
ing the example of his colleague of
the Navy Department by trimming his
sails to popular sentiment within a
week after the publication of his an
nual report, wrrich was denuded of
many things it should have contained.
No one has questioned Mr. Mc
Adoo's ability, but the early suspicion
that he lives, moves and has his see
ing in politics has been strengthened
by events. Mr Burleson has reduced
the efficiency of the Postal Depait
ment and seems bent on continuing
his work. He seems to have no sense
of justice, and his unwillingness to
hav controversies passed upon by
disinterested tribunals has shaken pop
ular confidence in his sincerity. Mr.
Redfield and Mr. Daniels cannot be
taken seriously, although Mr. Daniels
is intrusted with the greatest task that
ever devolved on a secretary of the
navy. His retention is rarely a public
menace. Secretary Wilson began with
a wrong conception of his functions,
but appears to be learning. Globe
Democrat. .
