THE BARRE DAILY TIMES
riUCE, ONE CEXT.
BAUKK, VERMONT, THURSDAY, DECEMBER 21, 191G.
VOL. XX NO. 237.
WILSON'S PEACE
PLEA RECEIVED
IN SILENCE
British Foreign Office Will
Make No Statement Pend
ins; Consideration of the
Matter, Which Is Said to
Have Conic Up Most Un
expectedly WASHINGTON HAD
DISTINCT SURPRISE
Only a Few of the Officials
of the Administration
Knew That Such a Move
Was Contemplated by the
President Until Note Was
Despatched
London, Dec. 21. The suggestion of
the United States for an exchange of
views among the belligerents has been
received at the foreign office and is now
under consideration, pending which no
statement will be made.
Washington, D. C, Dec. 21. Distinct
surprise was apparent among diplomat
ic oflicials to-day' over President Wil
son's plea to the European belligerents
to discuss peace term.. The publication
to-day of the note, furnished Monday
and dispatched Tuesday to the American
diplomatic representatives abroad, gave
most of the oflicials the first notice that
such a step was even contemplated at
this time.
Opinion here inclined toward the view
that the action would give strong en
eoursement for some sort of exchange,
which might result in discussion of defi
nite terms between belligerents. Offi
cials of the British embassy declared
they were wholly unable to explain the
action. Count Von Bernstorff, the Ger
man embassador, said: "Now I am per
fectly convinced there will be a confer
ence." The president's notes to the belliger
ents have been virtually 48 hours on the
way to-day and the oflicials believed that
they had reached all the foreign capitals.
Although all the official Washington was
listening with keenest expectation to any
indications how the note would be re
ceived, diplomatists think it incredible
that President Wilson should have taken
his action without some belief that it
would not be flatly rejected without con
sideration by the entente. The wish and
hope of the German allies that he take
some such step has long been well known
and there is no doubt of the manner of
its reception among them.
The British embassy official made no
attempt to conceal their surprise at the
president's action. All official Washing
ton had been led to belifve that the pres
ident, in transmitting the German peace
proposals without comment, had taken
all the action to be expected from the
I'nited States for some time to come.
THE TEXT OF WILSON NOTE.
Slightly Varied as Sent to Central Pow
ers and the Entente.
Washington, D. C, Dec. 21 The notes
to the belligerents are prefaced with this
instruction by Secretary Lansing to the
American ambassadors presenting them:
"The president directs me to send you
the following communication to be pre
sented immediately to the minister of
foreign affairs of the government to
which you are accredited."
The texts of the noten themselves then
begin identically as follows:
"The president of the United States
has instructed me to suggest to the (her
is inserted a designation of the govern
ment addressed) a course of action with
regard to the present war which he hopes
that the government will take under con
sideration as suggested in the most
friendly spirit and as coming not only
from a friend but also as coming from
the representative of a neutral nation
whose interests have been most seriously
affected by the war and whose concern
for its early conclusion arises out of a
manifest necessity to determine how
beat to safeguard those interests if the
war is to continue."
Special Statement to Central Power.
At this point the texts vary. In the
note to the central powers this para
graph follows next:
"The suggestion which I am instructed
to make the president has long had it in
mind to offer. He is somewhat embar
rassed to offer it at this particular time,
because it may now cem to have been
prompted by a desire to play a part in
connection with the recent overtures of
the central powers. It has in t act been
in no way suggested by them in its ori
gin and the president would have delayed
offering it until those overtures had been
independently answered, but for the fact
that it also concern the que-tion of
peace and may best be considered in con
nection with other proposal-, which have
the same end in view. The president can
only beg that his suggestion be consid
ered entirely on its own merits and as if
had been "made in other circumstances."
To Entente Powers.
In the note to the entente allies the
fuliowiiig paragraph takes the place of
the one iust quoted:
"Thr smrirestion whith I am instructed
to make th president has long had it in
rr.ind to offer. He is somewhat embar-!
rassed to offer it at this particular time
lvaus it may now m to have been
prompted by the recent overtures of the
central powers. It is in fart in no war
aasociated with them in its origin and
the president would have delayed offer
ing it until tiur overtures had bra an
swered, but for the iit Utet it alx con-
! cerns the question of pence and may best
' lwi considered in connection with ffther
proposals which have the same end in
view. The president can only beg that
his suggestion be considered entirely on
its merits and as if it had been made in
other circumstances."
The Identical Statement.
Then, all the notes proceed identically
as follows:
"The president suggests that an early
occasion be sought to call out from oil
the nations now at war such an avowal
of their respective views as to the terms
upon which the war might be concluded
and the arrangements which would be
deemed satisfactory as a guaranty
against its renewal or the kindling of
any similar conflict in the future as
would make it possible frankly to com
pare them. He is indifferent as to the
mean taken to accomplish this. He
would be happy himself to serve, or even
to take the initiative in its accomplish
ment, in any way that might prove ac
ceptable, but he has no desire to deter
mine the method or the instrumentality.
One way will be as acceptable to him as
another, if only the great object he has
in mind be attained.
Each Fights for Same Object.
"He takes the liberty of calling atten
tion to the fact that the objects which
the statesmen of the belligerents on both
sides have in mind in this war are vir
tually the same, as stated in general
terms to their own people and to the
world. Each side desires to make the
rights and privileges of weak peoples and
small states as secure against aggression
or denial in the future bs the rights and
privileges of the great and powerful
states now at war. Each wishes itself
to be made secure in the future, along
with oil other nations and peoples,
against the recurrence of wars like this
and against aggression of selfish inter
ference of any kind. Each would be
jealous of the formation of any more
rival leagues to preserve an uncertain
balance of power amidst multiplying
suspicions; but each is ready to consider
the formation of a league of nations to
insure peace and justice throughout the
world. Before that final step can be tak
en, however, each deems it necessary
first to settle' the issue of the. present
war upon terms which will certainly
safeguard the independence, the terri
torial integrity and the political and
commercial freedom of the nations in
volved. "In the measures to be taken to secure
the future peace of the world, the people
and government of the United States are
as vitally and as directly interested as
the governments now at war. Their in
tercuts, moreover, in the means to be
adopted to relieve the smaller and weak
er people of the world of the peril of
wrong and violence is as quick and ar
dent as that of any other people or gov
ernment. They stand ready, and even
eager, to co-operate in the accomplish
ment of these ends, when the war is over,
with every influence and resource at their
command. But the war must first bo
concluded. The terms upon which it is
to be concluded they are not at liberty
to suggest; but the president docs feel
that it is his right and his duty to point
out their intimate interest in its con
clusion, lest it should presently be too
late to accomplish the, greater things
which lie beyond its conclusion, lest the
situation of neutral nations, now exceed
ingly hard to endure, be rendered alto
gether intolerable, and lest, more than
all an injury be done civilization itself
which, can never be atoned for or re
paired. "The president, therefore, feels alto
gether justified in suggesting an imme
diate opportunity for a comparison of
views as to the "terms which must pre
cede those ultimate arrangements for the
peace of the world, which all desire and
in which the neutral nations as well a
those at war are ready to play their full
responsible part. If the contest must
continue to proceed towards undefined
ends by slow attrition, until the one
group of belligerents or the other is ex
hausted, if million after million of hu
man lives must continue to be offered up
until on the one side or the other there
are no more to offer, if resentments must
be kindled that can never cool and de
spairs engendered from which there can
be no recovery, hopes of peace and of the
willing concert of free peoples will be
rendered vain and idle.
"The life of the entire world has been
profoundly affected. Every part of the
great family of mankind has felt the
burden and terror of this unprecedented
contest of arm. No nation in the civil
ized world can be said in truth to stand
outside its influence or to be safe against
its disturbing effects. And yet the con
crete objects for which it is being waged
have never been definitely stated.
"The leaders of the several belligerents
have, as has boon said, stated those ob
jects in general terms. But, stated in
general terms, they seem the same on
both eides. Never yet have the authori
tative spokesmen of etiher side avowed
the precise objects which would, if at
tained, satisfy them and their people
that the war had been fought out. The
world has been left to conjecture what
definitive results, what actual exchange
of guarantees, what political or territor
ial changes or readjustments, what stage
of military success even, would bring the
war to an end.
"It mav be that peace is nearer than
we know; that the terms which the bel
ligerents on the one side and on the
other would deem it necessary to insist
upon are not so irreconcilable as some
have feared; that an interchange of
views would clear the way at Jea't for
conference and make the permanent con
cord of the nations a hope of te imme-
i diate future, a concert of nations imme
diately practicable.
"The president is not proposing peace;
he is not even offering mediation. He h
merely proposing that soundings be. tak-
Sen in order that he mar learn, the neu
tral nation with the belligerent, how reai
near
the haven of peace may be for which all
mankind longs with an intense and in
creasing longing. He believes that the
spirit in which he speaks and the object
which he necks will be understood by all
concerned, and he confidently hopes for
a refKne which will brine new lij:ht
ibto th a2ira oi the worid."
FOUR GERMAN
PLANES DOWN
Considerable Aerial Activity
Carried Out on the
Western Front
LIEUT. HUNGESSOR
GETS 21ST MACHINE
Paris Official Report Says
There Was Very Little
Other Activity
Taris, Dec. 21. The French official
statement to-day says that relative quiet
prevails on the front in France with the
exception of aerial activity. On the
Siinmic front four enemy airplanes were
brought down, one by Sub. Lieut. Hun
gessor, making a total of 21 machines
brought down by him.
German Artillery Bombarded.
The bulletin issued bv tho war office
last night on the campaign in France
reads:
".outh of the Sommc the enemy vio
lently bombarded our lines during the
day. espectilly in the sectors of Bcllcy-en-Santerre,
Berry, Pressoire, and Ab
laincourt. Our artillerv replied energeti
cally. There were intermittent artillery
actions on the rest of the front."
Belgium communication:
"After a relatively quiet morning, the
enemy opened in the course of the after
niKin a violent artillerv fire in the re
gion of Uetas. The Belgian artillery si
lenced the enemy guns.
SALE IS RATIFIED
And United States Will Soon Own Dan
ish West Indies.
Copenhagen, via London, Dec. 21. Aft
er a single reading ma romeming yes
terday adopted the bill ratifying the
treatv for the sale of the Danish West
Indies to the I'nited States. The vote
was f0 in favor of and 16 against ratifi
cation, rive members were nosent.
When the bill entm- up for discussion,
14 members, of whirl' six were (oiwerva-
tives and eight of the left party, joined
in moving an amendment asking the gov
ernment to negotiate with the I'nited
States to purchase only St. John or St.
Thomas, while Denmark would retain
the other two islands. This was rejected
by DO to 14. The proposal for the sale
of all three islands was then adopted.
The Landsthing, it is expected, will
ratify the proposal to-day, and thus the
sale "of the islands will be definitely set
tled. PETITION AGAINST DEPORTATION
Will Be Submitted to Wilson By Amer
ican People.
New York, Dec. 21. A petition signed
by persons prominent in all walks of life
throughout the country and calling on
t.he president of the United States "to
throw the whole influence of his office
against the deportation of the Belgian
by the German government" will be for
warded to Washington, it was announced
here last night by Elihu Root. The pe
tition says:
"Inasmuch as the chief magistrate ot
a country is entitled to know the defi
nite sentiments of the people we hereby
petition the president of the United
States to throw the whole influence of
his ollice against the. deportation of the
Belgians by the German government.
"And we especially desire that in
whatever manner seems best to him
steps may be taken to join this country
with the" other neutral states of the
American continent in a determined pro
test against this reversion to barbarism
in war fnrt not to be witnessed by a
civilized world without indignation."
POSTPONED VOTE
On Question of Prohibition in District of
Columbia. '
Washington, D. C, Dee. 21. A parlia
mentary misplay by one of its friends
late yesterday upset plans for an imme
diate vote on Senator Slicppard's Dis
trict nf Columbia nrohibition bill and ad
vocates of the measure were obliged to
agree that it go over until after the
Christmas holidays for final action.
The Senate agreed to a hnal vote on
the measure on Jan.. 9 after its oppo
nun fa had len flus'tA.ned bv the chair in
liner that its place on the Senate
calendar had been lost by the action of
Senator Ashurst in obtaining unanimous
consent to consider a land bill.
NEARLY DISASTER.
Train Derailed By Automatic Device
Near Bridgeport.
Bridgeport, Conn., Dec. 21. An auto
matic derailing apparatus at the ap
proach of the open drawbridge over the
Pequonnock river caused the engine of
an .,tM u-Acfhrmnit evnress train on the
New York, New Haven and Hartford
railroad to jump the rails near nere lasi
night. The train was going slowly, pre
noratiirv to -iinki-tir a station stop and
none of the six coaches left the track.
Closely following the train was tne
fast Knickerbocker express which wa
stopped in time 1 1 prevent a crash.
BROKE THROUGH ICE.
Man and Woman Drown in Pond at Ar
lington, Mass.
Ariini tmi Mass.. Dee. 21. John V. X.
Hatfield of this town and a girl believed
to lie Anna Doten of Somerville were
drowned in Spy pond List niyht. They
broke through the ice while skating. The
bodies were recovered.
Another Vennonter Killed.
Ottawa, Oct.. Dec. 21. R. J. Cooney
f Vermont is mentlouM among the dead
in yesterday "a overseas casunUy list.
CLARKE C. FITTS DIED
AT WATERTOWN, MASS
Brattleboro Man Had Been One of the
Foremost Figures of Vermont
For Some Years.
Brattleboro. Deo. 21. Clarke C. Fitts
died lust evening at 8 o'clock at the home
of his sister-in-law, Mrs. Otis, in Water
town, Mass., aged 46 years. He was op
erated upon November 8 In the Corey
Hill hospital at Brookline, Mass., for an
intestinal trouble. Thanksgiving day ho
was moved to Wutertown. He showed
improvement for a time, but complieu
tions set in and for the past two days
there had been no hope.
The funeral will be held nt the Center
Congregational church Saturday after
noon. Kov. Richard Clapp, the pastor, of
ficiating. The body will be brought here
to-night.
By the death of Clarke Cushing Fitts
Brattleboro loses a man who had been
most prominent in the affairs of the
town and of the state in the last 15
year. During that period Mr. Fitts had
a prominent part in the bringing to a
successful head more large enterprises
than any one other resident of the town
This he did in addition to handling a
very large and lucrative law practice
which he had built up by leaps and
bounds almost from the time of his au
mission to the Vermont bar at the age
of 21 years. He was counsel for many
large interests.
He was born, in Wardsboro, October
17, 1870, a son of Osmer C and Abbie M.
(Twitchell) Fitts. His father died when
he was 14 years of age. After a few
terms in the Leland and Cray seminary
and one year in the Brattleboro high
school, from which he graduated, he en
tered the law office of Waterman, Mar
tin A Hill as a law student and was ad
mitted to the bar October 21, 1801, four
days after he became of age.
Meanwhilo he had become interested
in a quarrying scheme which proved a
failure. Not being legally of age at the
time he could not be held liable for his
share of the loss, hut he asumed his on
ligations ami in eieht years, although in
straitened circumstances, he paid dollar
for dollar every cent of his indebtedness.
Three years after being admitted to
the bar he was elected state's attorney
of Windham county and vigorously pros
ecu ted such offenses as came under his
Jurisdiction and was especially active in
his work against those who sold liquor
illegally.
In l!M)l he was offered the office of
federal iudoe at Cape Nome, Alaska, at a
salary of S",000 a' year, but declined the
anointment. In WZ he represented a
citizens' committee before the legislature
the first active effort to obtain a
charter for the Connecticut River Power
company. Before that time he had been
interested in the conservation of the wat
er power resources of the state and ever
since then he nad preaeneu nunir.n
possible conservation, and had actively
worked for it. In 1!W3 he obtained a
charter for the company in New Hamp
shire. It was principally his work that
resulted in the building of the big dam
and power house at ernon, representing
capital of over a million dollars, the first
of a series of auch plants in th'iB sec
tion.
Mr. Fitts had much to do with the set
tlement of the Thomas Thompson will in
which the heirs were settled with for
bout S-.i00.00n and two-third of the in
come of about one million dollars was
left for the relief of certain classes of
poor in Brattleboro a part of which mon
ey built the Memorial hospital.
The new railroad station completed
this year and the changing of the grade
of Vernon street, involving the expendi
ture of several scores of thousands, was
due to is persistence and ability as
counsel for the local committee. It in
volved years of effort.
In 1904 he was elected town represen
tative and after three months' service
was elected the first attorney-general of
the state, an office created by the legis
lature of which he was a member. He
was re-elected for a second term of two
years. Dur'ng his career in that office
occurred the trial of Mary Rogers of
Bennington and her subsequent convic
tion and hanging. In this case an array
of brilliant counsel opposed the young
attorney-general. That was his last po
litical appointment.
He was a staunch Republican in poli
tics and of late years had been much
sought as a campaign speaker. It was
while engaged in the national campaign
of this year in New iork state ttiat ne
was taken ill and forced to abandon his
assignments.
lt ri a member of the Center Con
gregational church, a vice-president of
the Greater Vermont association, .
president of the Vermont Bar associa
tion, a trustee of the Brattleboro Sav-
ts bank, a director of the l'eoplc s Ra
tional bank, a director of the S. A. Mmtn
f aniifnitririnr company., and of the
Hooker, Corscr & Mitchell company, a
member of the Masonic fraternity and
of the Red Men, of the Brattleboro Coun
try club and the Vermont Wheel club.
Mr. Fitts first married in 180.3 Mis
Harriet Lyon of Londonderry, who died
in 18!)7. He leaves two sons by that
marriage, Robert I., a student in the
Harvard Law school, and Stanley C, a
student at Dartmouth college. In 1003
Mr. FitU married tor nis second wne,
Miss Maud L. F.merson of Brattleboro,
who survives with a son, Osmer C, and
a daughter, Miriam. He leaves also his
mother and two sisters. Miss Mary and
Miss Florence, all of Brattleboro. Iler
mon E. Eddy, just elected state senator,
and Harold E. Whtitney were his as
sociates in his law practice.
Veteran, Hale and Hearty.
Lucius J. Goodwin, one of the best
known residents of Montpelier and a
veteran of the Civil war, observed hi
70th birthday to-day and received the
congratulations of many friends. He is a
native of Montpelier and when only lti
vears of age he enlisted in the Civil war,
first serving in Co. O, 4th ermont, and
then with Co. K, 7th Vermont, laVr with
11th U. S. infantry. At the battle of
Spanish Fort, Alabama, he was taken
prisoner. At the close of the war he
went to California and later to the Black
Hills of North Dakota. While in Cali
fornia he and another man walked 40
miles in order to vote for (irant for pres
ident and then walked back home again.
Mr. Goodwin is well-preserved and dors
not took to be 70 years of age. He is
at present the extnn of Christ church
and resides near the church on State
ttrcet.
GREAT RUSH '
TO UNLOAD
New York Stock Exchange
Was Near Demoraliza
tion To-day
U. S. STEEL FELL
OFF VERY SHARPLY
Largest Block of Steel Ever
Sold in History of
the Exchange
Newt York, Dec. 21. Extreme weak
ness, bordering upon demoralization,
marked the opening dealings on the stock
exchange to-day. Tho so-called war
shares broke from two to eleven points
in the course of the first ten minutes.
The most sensational feature was tiie
offering of 50,000 shares of United States
steel at a decline of two to three and
one-half below yesterdayVdosing. Nev
er before in the history of the exchange
has the sale of a single block ot such
volume been recorded. Two hundred and
twenty thousand shares of steel were
traded in the first half-hour.
The market continued to break during
the noon hour, steel declining to 102li.
The weakest industrial was (iulf Steel,
which made an extreme loss of 20 points.
COTTON GOES UPWARD.
Great Upturn Due to the Prospects of
Early Peace.
New York. Dec. 21. Cotton opened
at an advance of from 2rt to 38 points
to-day, the upturn being largely attrib
uted to the over-night development re
garding peace. Reports were in circula
tion that one German steamship line
was planning to resume, service as early
as February 1.
WHEAT GOES DOWN.
Loss of Seven Cents Registered After
Wilson's Note.
Chicago, Dee. 21. A maximum decline
of " seven cents was registered in the
wheat market at the opening today,
caused by the president's peace note.
loiter tne market Degan to cmuo apaiii
and around noon it was more than four
points above the bottom level touched at
the outset.
PROHIBITION BILL
SOMEWHAT CHANGED
As It Was Favorably Reported to the
Senate By the Judiciary Committee
By the Vote of 13 to 3.
Washington, D. C, Dee. 21 The na
tional prohibition amendment, materially
altered from the way in which it wne
reported to the House, was ordered fa
vorably reported by the Senate judiciary
committee to day, 13 to 3. Senators Cul-
bertson, Reed snd Brandegee voted
against it.
WILL BUILD A SLIP.
Construction in the Philadelphia Navy
Yard Approved.
Washington, D. C, Dee. 21. Construc
tion in the Philadelphia navy yard of a
slip for building one of the four battle
cruisers authorized by Congress has been
determined upon by Secretary Daniels.
TALK OF THE TOWN
Miss Winifred Jeffords of Williams-
town was brought to the (. lty hospital
to-day and underwent an operotion for
appendicitis.
At a meeting ot tne ermoni lounry
ssociation in the court room at city hall
last evening final plans were made for
the opening of the annual state show in
the Church street gymnasium Tuesday
morning. Cups to be distributed to the
winning exhibitors have arrived and will
be exhibited in the display window at
B. W. Hooker & Co.'s furniture store for
a few days. Registrations are coming in
rapidly and while the poultry men were
busy in their deliberations last evening
man from Tollbridge telephoned in Jus
enrollment of a string of 36 birds. Some
inconveniences will be encountered by
reason ot tne iaci mat inr nnimi n"-
lows Christmas so closely, but a commit
tee will be on hand Monday to receive
all shipments ami the birds coming in
will lie cooped and assigned to their prop
er avenues in the gymnasium. Edwin
Kpss. has been appointed superintendent
of the hall and his assistants are William
Olliver and Peter Park.
Prompt action on the part of .lames
nihsnn. a former National i.uarasman
and employed until recently as a bellhop
at Hotel Barre, probably modified the re
sults of a spectacular runaway on North
Main street this forenoon. W. II. Mar
tin, a Plainfield butcher, bad left his
horses near'ity park for a moment and
it wa. during bis absence that the pair
made their getaway. Down the street
toward North Barre they dashed with
all the vigor they could summon and by
the time they reached Depot square there
seemed to be few pedestrians who would
consider any move to arrest their flight.
It was up to Gibon, but unlike other
passersbv, he was unaware of the horses
approach until they had nearly ov.rtak
cn him near Granite street. Without a
thought of the consequences. Gibson dug
bis heels into the highway, made a flying
leap through the doorway of the enclosed
meat cab and was soon tugging at the
rein. Near the Seminnry street inter
section, the horses feeling Mr. Gibson's
determination to have his own way in
the matter, quietly resigned. An oil
,.r which the butcher ites to main
tain the temperature of the cab on theiGram
overland trip from Plainfield was
rheerfullv when Gihon. after reining
the horses southward to the Jones Jt Nye
livery, turned the rig over to the meat
imin." The ex -guardsman was not per
mitted to 0 unrewarded.
MANY APPLICANTS
For First and Second Naturalization Pa
pers at Montpelier.
First papers were granted to 14 appli
cants and 13 made application for the
filial papers at a session of naturalization
court conducted in the federal building at
Montpelier yesterday afternoon and even
ing. Court'was in charge of Clerk Fred
S. Hatt of Rutland, assisted by United
States Marshal Carpenter of Brattleboro,
Deputy Marshal (ieorge Lackey of Mont
pelier, Bailiff ,1. S. Haley of Montpelier,
Intermediary C. DcF. Bancroft and Miss
Mary lionet ti of Jiarre, stenographer.
Those who were granted first papers
follow: .lose Arta-sciia, Spain, Montpe
lier; Kdwardo Citrini, Italy, Montpelier;
Stanley (). Davis, England, Montpelier;
Ksiilro'tioincz, Spain, Montpelier; Arthur
(iould, Russia, Montpelier; (icnaro Lavin,
Spain, Montpelier; Adam Litalien, Prov
ince of Quebec, Montpelier; Aurele Or-Le-gare;
Province of Quebec, (iroton; (ieorge
Lucich, Austria, Montpelier; Felix I'u
gliiica. Italy, Montpelier; Joseph Peter
son, Sweden, Montpelier; Peter Sander
son. Scotland, Montpelier; Federiea So
hind, Spain,. Montpelier; Bolus Union,
Syria, Montpelier.
Applicants for the second papers were
(ieorge E. Bassingthwaighte, England,
Strafford; Chester H. lioomhower. Prov
ince of Quebec, (iroton; Carl fi. Carlson,
Finland, Montpelier; Vasilios I. Doukas,
(ireece, Montpelier; Antonion DeYitori,
Italy, Montpelier; Moises (iuticrrcz,
Spain, Montpelier; Joseph W. Jackson,
Scotland, Barnard; (ieorge K. Johnson,
Province of Quelle, Maishfield; Albert
K. Kingsbury, Province of Quebec, Waits
field; Louis Lavin, Spain, Montpelier;
Carlo Melada, Italy, Montpelier.
A FEW YULETIDE DON'TS.
As Suggested By Chief Gladding to Pre
vent Fires.
That Yuletidc happiness may not be
marred any one of the numerous mis
haps and accidents that sometimes grow
into tragedies with surprising swiftness,
a number of precautionary "don ts are
suggested by Chief Gladding of the fire
department. Throughout the country lo
cal chiefs are asked to co-operate with
with National Fire Protection associa
tion in urging the value of caution in
ChriBtmas celebrations. . Anyone who
contemplates an observance of Christ
mas along conventional lines will do well
to scan the chief's suggestions before
lighting the Christmas tree and donning
the usually inflammable make-up of San
ta Claus.
Here are some of the suggestions that
, ... -...i.i : l...
may save a good dh oi irouoie iu me
next few days. Light, inflammable dec
orations make fires easy to start and
. . . t .!......
easy to spread. A maien, a kbb "hi;
or an electrical defect may do it. Watch
gas jets. Decorations may be carried
against them by air currents. Do not
decorate your Christmas tree with paper,
cotton or any other inflammable materi
al. Use tinsel and other non-inflamma
ble decorations only, and set the tree
securely so that children in reaching for
things cannot, tip n over.
Do not use cotton to represent, snow,
If you must have snow, use powered
mica or asbestoa fibre. Do not permit
children to light or relight the candles
while parents are not present, t requeiu
lv thev set tire to their clothing in-
Vood Flpitrical illumination is safer
and in this connection, merchants who
decorated their display windows with ex
tra electrical fixtures are urged to see to
it that the insulation is perfect. Defec
tive insulation is the meansmany times,
of starting a bad blaze in inflammable
material.
WAS SCHOOL PRINCIPAL.
Ellen B. Corley of Burlington Died Aft
er Operation.
Burlington, Dec. 21. Ellen B. Corley,
superior of St. Joseph's convent and
principal of St. Joseph's schools for the
last eight years, died yesterday after
noon at the Fanny Allen hospital after
a week's illness. Miss Corley, though
a native of Albany, Vt., received her
education here, entered the order of the
Ladies of Nazareth, taught in the con
vent school for the past 13 years, and
had many relatives and scores of friends
and associates, who esteemed her warm
ly. Miss Corley was operated upon at
the hospital successfully, but a relapse
came two daysi ago and she failed to
rally.
Miss Corley was about 51 years old.
Iter entire education, practically speak
ing, she received at the school, of which
she rose to be the head. She entered it
while still a mere girl, graduating in
1884. After teaching for several years
in New York City, Buffalo and finally
Swanton. where she remained aboirt. ten
years, she came back to Burlington.
. . t a: ; -
The surviving relatives lnewuc fil
ter, Mrs. D. A. Kobhins; a nroiner, .nar
tm H. Corley. and an uncle, P. H. Cor
ley. all of this city. An aunt, Mrs.
Martin Clarke of New York City, and
several cousins also survive.
SERIOUS COAL SHORTAGE
Middlebury Dealer Is Down to the Last
Spoonful.
Middlehurv. Dee. 21. The coal situa
tion has become serious. Emery issell.
the well known dealer, has got cleaned
out down to a spoonful, owing to tne
fact that a great many carloads ordered
bv him In good season are sidetracked
somewhere and tracers here had to be
sent out to locate them.
In the meanwhile many people in the
village are getting down to their last
bodfuls and are consequently becoming
., ...I. I. l.a
anxious over tne ouikmik. i" k i-
past few davs several sleigliloads ot coal
have wen liroiignt m inm uu-
vailable coal depots, but this little Help
irocs onlv a .!iort way lowarus reiietnu;
the situation and there is scarcely any
wood in sight.
FUNERAL OF DAVID B0LLES.
Was Held froir His Late Home On Upper
Hill Street.
The funeral of David Bollcs. veteran
of the Civil war, whose di-atb occurred
at his home on upicr Hill street Tus
.hy morning, was held at the house
Wednesday afternoon at !:3 o'chn k.
Kev. B. (J. IJpsky, pastor of the Hea
ding Methodist chun h. officiating. .ni'iig
those who attended were a number of
Armv members. The Ix-srer
burn-iere:
IW.Iles,
Clarence K
sons of the
Holies Wallace
deeoiised. (lories
. , t .... -i,,.r .l,.hn-
IIHIIltx'll, "II- ill - . All., ......
son. a grandson of Mr. lfc.ll. There
ere several fine fforal tr.hutc. Intc-
went was made in Elaiwood cemetery.
SAYS l.S.
is rm
TUWAR
Secretary of State Lansing,
Issuing a Statement Ex
plaining President's Ac
tion in Sending Note on
Peace, Declares That This
Country Is on the Very
Verge of Conflict
ALL NEUTRALS
DEEPLY INVOLVED
Declares Position Is Becom
ing Increasingly Critical
Ambassador Von Bern
storff Made a Call on Sec
retary Lansing To-day
Washington, D. C, Dec. 21. Secretary
of State Lansing to-day, in explaining
the sending of the president's note to
the! belligerents, declared it was because
the situation for neutrals was becoming
increasingly critical and because the
United States itself was being drawn
near the verge of war.'
Secretary Lansing's statement said in
part: "It is not our material interest we
had in mind when the note was sent but
more and more our rights were becoming
involved bv the belligerents of both sides.
so that the situation was becoming in
creasingly critical. I mean by that that
we are drawing nearer the verge of war
ourselves and therefore we are entitled
to know exactly what each belligerent
seeks in order that we may regulate our
conduct in the future. No nation has
been sounded. No consideration of the
German overtures or of the speech of
Lloyd-George was taken Into account in
the formulation of the document. The
only thing the overtures did was to de
lay it for a few days."
Lansing's statement obviously bad the
approval of the president, although the
president would make no comment.
Count Von Bernstorff, the German am
bassador, conferred with Secretary Lan
sing to-day and it is understood the sec
retary explained the president's action ia
addressing the belligerents.
SADNESS MULTD?LIED.
His Two Brothers Died in War and His
Daughter While Visiting in Scotland.
Yesterday was a day of evil tidings for
James Contts of North Main street, a
member of the Bonaccord Football club
and prominent in Barre eoccer circles.
The morning's mail brought him a let
ter from relatives in Scotland advising
him that his two brothers, aged 20 and
21, had been killed while fighting with a
Highland regiment somewhere in France.
Mr. Coutts himself is confined to the
house by illness, and the sad news from
overseas did not tend to improve his
mental well being. As if to accentuate
his grief, came a cablegram in the after
noon informing him of the death of his
daughter, a child of two years, who was
passing the winter in Aberdeen. The
little girl's death occurred at 0 o'clock
Wednesday morning.
Mrs. Coutts and the daughter left for
Scotland last spring and during the
mother's absence from America a second
daughter was born in the family. The
brothers of Mr. Contta enlisted in Aber
deen a year ago and had seen hard fight
ing along the western front.
MORE POSSIBLE RECRUITS
Received for the Headquarters Company,
V. N. G, in Barre.
More applications for membership in
the headquarters company of the Ver
mont Natiuial Guard were received at
held in the city court room
last evening, bringing the total up to 44
out of 158 needed for the complete com
pany. Three of the new men were for
the band and one for the mounted order
ly section. Another meeting' will be held
on Dec. 29. when physical examinations
will be conducted by Dr. J. H. Woodruff.
F. C. Dunham of Northfield. who had
eliarge of the regimental band last sum
mer, addressed the meeting last evening,
telling of the step for organization and
expressing the belief that it ought to be
possible to develop a fine organization in
Barre.
BURLINGTON LEADS.
In the Sale
of Red
Cross Christmas
Seals.
ii..ri;n.Tnn. lVc. 21. The school
ohil-
dren of this city lead in the sale of Red
Cross Christinas seal, returns having
been rereived from five of the larger
pla.s in the state where the schools en
tered the competition.
The returns already received show the
sal.-s a follows: Burlington 1S3; Rut
land. lf7: Bennington. $150; St. Al
K.n Barre Returns had not
been rc-eived up to last night from Brat
tleNim. M. John -bury and Springfield
and from 1"0 rural schools to which seals
were sent.
if. w. Moeum of this city, a member
. . ... l . t
of the Ann-I iiircuisi iejjf, - "u ""-
', barge of the sale of seals, expects that
.vsnl will t- son. lie niMrimiim i.-
J
.-..-.. In Kutland. Bennington and
IMrl n-to the scls ,r s-dd m ipostolliea
buvtl" as well as bj lie chjufen.
