f ol)e (T^eskrfield Advertiser 3
I VOLUME 85?NO. 40 ... ^ ('HF.RTKRFIKLD. 8 O. DECEMBER .21. 1016 $1 00 A YEAR IN ADVANOK
'
A. Last
i J?T^\ Jfk Onh
v_ Make Your
?f every design
^ We have a. com
fmoRing Sets Cut glass of evei
Shaving Sets Stationery in be;
To delight the heart of A complete line of D
"Him 99 'lu'e *?'k8*
^ F
'^Safety First''
First National Bank
"" r.HRRAW
V A A M *%4 ? ? ?
rfie Oii/7 National Bank In The County
No depositor in National Banks in
South Carolina has ever lost a cent
Strict Supervision by \J. S. Government
Pays Interest on Savings Deposits
WRITE US AND START AN ACCOUNT BY MAIL
Wm. Godfrey, Idward Mclver, S. G. Godfrey
President Vice President Cashier
ta = ? c
i
I ~A* SALE
JEWELRY
Beginning TO-DAY and continuing
through SATURDAY
Dec. 23d The Wingate Jewelry
laft^ Company will
' at ^OSt
^ fintire Stock
Jewelry, Watches
Clocks, Phonographs
... THE
. JEWELRY STORE ??????
OF THE
TheWingate CH^S | Jewelry C(
FOR QUICK SALE IMPORTANT NOTICE
A tract of land containing two hun- yje have sold our entire stock i
dred and sixty acres more or less, har<lware an<1 ^ j? to notify ca.
bounded now or formerly by lands anj every one ,s indebted to tl
of Cordelia A. Poison, W. J. Johnson, i\rrnfiei<| Hardware Co. that this de
Annie P. P loyd and T. S. Sweat. must be satisfied at once.
Situated in Cole Hill Township. yjc mean business. Call at on
Will take reasonable offer. So an(j se^]e aY,,j save trouble.
Write or phone ARMFHCLD HARDWARE C<
L. L. DRAKE, .
Wadesboro, N. C. SCHOOL ELECTION
' i. M A lii Uf SUUTIi CAKOLINA,
election managers? notice County of Chesterfield.
Money for the managers of the An election will be held in Wexfo
Federal election is now in the hands School District, No. 30, on Tuesda
Of Mr. W. J. Hunna, secretary. Those the 2d day of January, 1917, for tl
entitled to pay should see him. purpose of electing three trustees f
said district, as provided by scho
Full-blooded Poland china law of 1912, j. t. davidson, j.
Service of Boar, $1,110. Griggs and G. L. Moore to act as dlt
L. J. KAYFIELD. tion manager*.
Chesterfield, Route 4. 2tp B* order of the County Board
-i Education.
notice ______ R' R0USE? Supt.
Books of the town of Chesterfield wood for sale
ere now open for the purpose of col- Stovewood, Firewood?Oak, Pir
Ecting taxes for the year 1916. lightwood. Good measure.
JL M. MYERS, Clesk. 42p J. M. REPFEAI
Gall for
r Two Mor
n't buy a thing befo
Gifts Worth
tbem to please every i
re you will find lovely s
in both solid and he
i ~
piete assortment ot leal
ry description. Fancy 1
autiful holiday boxes.
tooks for tke children. Picture Bo
3 LOCAL ITEMS
The Baptist church will in the near
future build Sunday school accommodations
to the church. The addition
will be in the form of a long building
crossing the rear of the present house,
making a "T" shaped structure. The
Sunday school annex will likely contain
six rooms. Under the leadership
of the Rev. B. S. Funderburg this
church has always been a power for
good in the community, and is doing
more and better work each year.
Quite a good deal of excitement
was caused yesterday morning among
the Order of the Sons of Rest when
Clarence Catoe was caught digging a
1 hole in front of the Wingate Jewelry
, <^o. ior tlie purpose of putting a post
J up for the big reduction sale display.
The order went into executive session
! at once and Clarence is now under suspended
sentence with the definite
promise that he will not engage in
any work for the remainder of 19Id.
Get Walk-Overs and all other kind]
I of shoes at Odom Bros. Co. at the old
| prices.
First Lieut. W. A. Mulloy, Company
I, 1st S. C. Regt., Nat. Guards,
IJ. S. A., of Cheraw, recently from
the Mexican border, was in town yes[
terday visiting relatives and friends.
J i That Mr. Mulloy gave a good account
? ' of himself in the army is evident from
the stories that are heard of his popu.
larity with the men and with your
Uncle Samuel, for that matter, as it
i is said that Mr. Mulloy was'offered a
First Lieutenancy in the Regular
army.
Will pay highest market price for
your hides. The City Market.
Senator G. K. Laney attended a
' meeting of the Fire Insurance Commissioners
in Columbia on Tuesday.
There was also a meeting on that day
' of the board having charge of the oi l
Confederate Home, of which board
Mr. Laney is a member. He reports
satisfactory progress being made in
the undertakings of the Insurance
' Board. It is expected that many of
the fire insurance companies that
withdrew will be induced to return tc
the State, with the State retaining supervisory
powers as to the rates.
The finest mixed pickle you eve?
; tatted?at the/\. F. Davit Market.
Mr. A. W. MeCnll, who has been
engaged in the jewelry business and
as manager of the Amus-lJ Theatre in
Chesterfield for about three years, w-j
I understand will soon leave our town
to engage in the jewelry business in
a larger town. During his stay here
m Mr. McCall has made many friend*
who will deeply regret his leave-taking,
Mr. McCall is a good jeweler
x nnd gave Chesterfield the best Hervicc
" as a show manager that she has evet
_ had. In his going, Chesterfield loses
a good citizen.
Seeded Reitint, Currents, Citron
,], end Nutt, et The City Merket.
tic Buy Maxwell Houte Coffee, good tc
bt the lest drop. Get it et Odom Bros.
Compeny.
ce Mr. Thomas H. Jenkins, one of the
Chesterfield county boys to volunteei
r? :? ? XL - -
- ocifiue un mc mexican norder
who got in trouble while in Columbia
is now at Fort Moultrie, near Charles*
ton, awaiting the action of the Wai
^ Department on his trial. It will bt
remembered that Mr. Jenkins struck
^ an officer with his gun while on drill
1 He was brought to trial while the
boys were on the border. The tria
' was held by the officers of an Ulinoii
Regiment, but the 1st S. C. furnisher
,c~ the best legal talent it possessed foi
the defense of Mr. Jenkins. So fai
as can be learned no definite disposi
tion of the caue has been made. Mr
Jenkins will be remembered by Ches
terfieldians as one of the most en
ie; thu*iasti?\boys to join the expeditior
and much sorrow is expressed at th<
IN, plight in which'^e now finds jtrtmsel^
Mk
Christ
e Shopping
re seeing our handso
/hile Toy lair
nember of We
iilver ware ed in a s
:avy plate. will glad
ther rroods ?r. i?
n wiiojj ciiny am
high-grade =====
PF
oks for the very I ?
WW.Tf
Noticing that the roof of the bank
building was giving way under the
strain of the explosions of melody,
. Director Smythe Henderson, of the
, Chesterfield Band, has now removed
r his musicians to the auditorium of the
( Court House. When this roof shows
. signs of bulging the twenty horns,
. etc. will be brought into the open and
i the sky will be the limit.
( All of the town Sunday schools
. have made arrangements to see that
each pupil gets a present of some kind
on the Christmas trees which will be
Kiven in the following order: That of
[ the Baptist Sunday school, first, coming
on Saturday night; the Methodist
being on Monday night and the
Presbyterian's on Tuesday night.
Chesterfield has three of the best Sunday
school superintendents in the
county, and that is saying a good
deal, as there are some good ones in
our neighboring towns and in the surrounding
country.
If you want a real firtt-claii article
in green coffee, try Odom Bros. Co. i
A few more Christmas presents are
yet to be found at L. A. Campbell's '
Hardware store checkerboards, toys, '
etc.
The pastor, the Rev. J. L. Tyler,
will preach at St. Paul next Sunday at
11 a.m. and at 7 p.m. The morning
service will be devoted to the children.
Every child in the community
is invited to this service. Older persons
are also urged to attend. At
night the subject will be, "Forces for
and Forces Against Temperance."
MRS. C. L. HUNLEY ENTERTAINS !
On Wednesday afternoon Mrs. C.
L. Ilunley entertained a large nuniber
of friends at a Rook party. The
| pretty cottage of the hostess lent itself
beautifully to the decorations of
holly and pot plants, giving a festive
( appearance to the scene.
Delicious hot chocolate and cake,
, fruit and nuts were served at the
. conclusion of the games. The hostess
. was assisted in entertaining by Mrs.
t R. E. Ilanna and Miss Sallie Lucas.
HONOR ROLL FOR
SANDY RUN SCHOOL
?
Second Grade: Harriet Morton,
1 Martha McPherson, Susie Sullivan,
1 Odell Seegars, Thelbert Seegers.
' Third Grade: Leola Laird, Mary
Jordan.
i Fourth Grade: Thomas Morton,
> Henry Seegers, Mary Poston, Doris
Shaw.
' Fifth: Clennie Horton, Leonard
Horton, Mack Brown, Baxter Shaw,
' Barnwell Laird, Louedy McPherson,
' Henry McPherson.
Sixth Grade: Susie Seeders, Lillian
i Seeders, Lugena Brown.
Neither absent nor tardy: Barnwell
i Laird, Loda Laird, Louedy McPherson.
I
New tupply of shot-gun ahells at
L. A. Campbell's.
. MEETING OF COUNTY
COMMISSIONERS
The County Commissioners will
hoiu their annual meeting on Decemj
ber 29th, 1916. All persons having
. claims against the county will present
them on that day.
, At this meeting bids will be receivI
cd for the office of county physician.
, T. E. MULLOY, Clerk.
I
FOUND
r Some articles were placed in the
wrong buggy near Odom Broa. store
. about three weeks ago. The owner
. of these articles may recover the same
by calling at this office and giving a
i satisfactory description of the pocl
s I .'gva a .U paying for this advsrtise
mas SI
Dayfe Till
me gifts. :
id?Santa's lie.
have the finest line c
tore in Chesterheld.
den every childish he
1 . 1 - r r ?
a avoid v^nriftmas week rush. Co
3Sterf ield I
CORRESPONDENCE
BETHEL
Measles are raging throughout our
community now.
Mr. John Davis, the*Mist s Ola and
May Davis, spent Sunday evening at
the home of Mr. J. A. Davis.
Mrs. Coit Baker is very sick at this
writing, hut we hope for her a speedy
recovery.
School is progressing nicely at Bay
Springs now under the supervision o!'
Miss Verdie Davis, principal, Miss
Bertie Douglass assistant.
There is to be a Christmas tree at
Bethel Wednesday after Christmas.
December 27th. Also the Sunday
school will render a short Christina,
program, beginning at d o'clock ii.
the afternoon. An invitation is extended
to all.
The baby of Mr. L. R. Wilks was
badly burned last Saturday morning
when the little fellow stumbled and
fell into the tire.
We notice here a while back the
Vaughn School correspondent was
hoping that the high boots and short
skirts and the boll weevil would never
strike them, but surely the high boot:
and short skirts must have struck that
section by now.
Sunday school at Bethel every Sunday
afternoon at .'1 o'clock, also
preaching the fourth Sunday evening
at 4 o'clock.
A merry Christmas and a happy
New Year to the editor and all.
Don't buy your goods until you vis
it our store. We will save you money.
The City Market.
CHESTERFIELD, ROUTE 4
Health in this community is not so
very good at the present.
Oh such a grand time as is being
expected at the Christinas tree at
White Oak School House.
Messrs. SpofTerd and Duncan Oliver
have moved into our community
and we wish them much success.
Messrs. Ouss Clanton and Ervi i
Odom were callers at the home of
Mr. Wesley Hancock last Sunday afternoon.
On noting the frequent Sunday visits
of certain young men at certain
homes in the community we are constrained
to remark oh, what a blessing
to he going some.
Mr. and Mrs. John Jordan visited
on this route Sunday.
G. N. Clanton was in th" Palmetto
section Sunday.
Mr. J. H. Dalnymple and Mr. James
Thomas made a business trip to Charlotte,
N. C., Friday.
Miss Jaimie Smith is spending a
few days at G. N. Olanton's.
Mr. and Mrs. Luther I?. Clanton
of Andulusia, Ala., are expected hoino
to spend the holidays with honiefolks.
Ask fop a "Cake like mother u*ed
to bake" at A. F. Davis' Market and
get one of those delicious cakes for
10 cents, made by the Stone Co., cf
Atlanta, Go.
SNOW HILL
Miss Cathleen Sellers spent a part
of the week with 1*1 is. W. ,1. Hinson,
of the Teal's Mill section.
Master Maxie Rivers, of Ruby,
spent a part of last week here visiting
relatives.
Mr. and Mrs. I'. M. Jordan, of Wexford,
was visiting: here a part of last
week.
Mr. W. B. Duncan spent Suildni r ir
McFarlan with his son-in-law, , Mr
Thomas Sinf?s. Mr. and Mr J S ing
left Sundny afternoon for m-ff injji
where they will make theimfsj .^ur
homo. I
Musicr Jack Gardner, of|Y>a ;cn(
ship, is quite sick at this wriE ?a. ^
wc hope for him a apcedy l*?a*er
Wo wish the Editor a haca
M?Ml?^in o i I 1 I
lopping Km
Xmas y
adcfuarters
mpctent and Courteous service
Drug Co.
"| " 1 ' 1 "" ? '
0iiiii!i:!;i:iiiiii!iiiiiiiiiiiiii!iiiiiiiiiiiiii!i!i!iiiii!:i!i!n!;iiiniu:iniitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiig
1 dsl JQO) I
I ^ Iji ^
I The Rush Is On. People Are Buying |
1 Cars every day. Will you be next? |
Gloom and an Auto ride can't live together. Did you =5?
ever see a disgruntled countenance iriVff-nRftor Party? EE
|| Come in for your turn and join the throng of =?
E= happy and contented ones. EE
^IIIIIIIIIIIIDiSiliillllitllSHIillllllillllllllillllUinillilllillllllllllllllllllllllllllltlllB
LUCKIS VILLE CI!ARMING CHERAW PLANS
W sire having mge.lar dire-'mas FOR NEW ENTERPRISES.
weather these i >?.
.Mr .1. W. Wini iivn was very badly Cheraw, I)ec. 14?A largely attendhv.rt
la^t vt'Ch i\ !e cutting io M 0(j .,m| inspiring meeting of the CheO.
C. Bowman's ih \v ground. A tree . . . ,, .
? ,, , . , . i ,\v Board of Trade was held in the
rut by his son fell on him making a
v. y ugly j; tab on lus head, but be "??ncil chamber Tuesday night. This
is recovering nicely. was the annual meeting, and standing
School children are very busy these committees made reports and officers
days getting ready for the Christmas were elected for the ensuing year,
free. They are going to have reci- l |lt. ice factory was reported as practatinns
and a line time is anticipated, iicii 1 y an assured thing, as the cornMr.
and Mrs. Klibic and sister Miss pany that is to put it up waited on
Annie Braddoek, visited at the home ,lU analysis of the town's water. This
of Mr. and Mrs. .J. W. Winburn last has now been furnished, and is satisSunday
evening. factory; and a representative of the
Glad to report Mr. I'. E. Chapman's company will be here in a few days,
little baby is improving. The street committee, L. A. MeikleMr.
and Mrs. T. J. Sumner visited John, chairman, has been in cerrethe
latter's father, Mr. C. L. King, spondence with Mr. Gilbert C. White,
last Saturday and Sunday. an expert engineer of North Carolina,
Mr. Will Wunhurn killed a hog last in regard to paving Main street with
week weighing 340 pounds. bithulithic paving. Interesting fiig
uros as to cost were produced, which
Call on us for your fruits and can- put everybody in the notion of having
die* for Xmai. The City Market. the work done.
. The idea of making the river bridge
SHILOH a toll bridge has been abandoned, as
Well, Christmas is almost hem. it was found that the contract which
Wonder if old Santa Clous will forget j 'he county made with the town stipu- / \
1/v i 11-- 1 , A? *1 1 *
iu vimi, us gu.ui oiiiiuu loinji. ones niiu no ion sliall In1 collected for '
Mr. 1 're.ion Ilurst was the guest thirty years. 3I
of Miss M'linie Smith Sunday even- An estimate of nine hundred and
ing. sixty nine dollars was made on reMr.
Pry.n Odom visited Miss (Jus- pairing ?nd painting the old town
sie Rurch Sunday evening. hall. The hoard endorsed the propoMr.
and Mrs. W. F. Pr te pent Pur.- sition, and requested the town counday
with Mr and Mrs. G. ('. Sell rs. cil to have the wor.. don .
We ri ret that Miss Odle Web-tor The subject of a cotton mill was
had tin misfortune 01 cutt g h<- the feature of the evening. Mr. T. 3.
hand Monday afternoon. Evans, of the Seahoard Railroad's inMr.
J. it. Goodalo and Miss Ollio dustrial agent, and Mr. H. P. Meeks,
Gardner \ isited in the Hear Creek sec- 1 the Coast Line's travelling freight
tion Sunday. j agent, were here and gave much valu- ^
Mrs. L. F Hurst spent the weke- able information. The promoters are
end in Ih Shiloh section. j negotiating with a capable man as
Mr. Clinton Davis was the guest of superintendent. Enough money has
Miss Odie Webster Sunday evening. I been secured, but the details are not
Mr. Robert Webster visited in the yet in shape.
Teal's Mill section Sunday. | The election of officers resulted in
; Mr. Gary Odom and Miss Loyd Kel- the re-election of J. M. Long as prcsloy
were happily married last Mon-i ident; L. A. Meiklejohn, vice-presi- 4
r day afternoon, the ceremony being dent; J. H. Wannamakcr, secretary
performed by Mr. Walter Roseo. We and treasurer. y ^
s wish for Mr. and Mrs. Odoin many! Mr. Long made n splendid address
i, | vc irs of happiness. j on resuming his seat for another year.
c I Kelroxhincnts. coffee and grape juice
I COWS BOUGHT AND SOLD were served.
I- I I will buy end sell cows of any de- This is the oldest hoard of trade in
it scription -rr.il't cows or beef. See continuous service in t'nc CtUe, and
y. i me before selling any cattle. has done for Cheraw o. vkit
.?*-p J- M. RKDFEARN. cf pood. '
I A - ^ ^ < A
