mMtt
mm
VOL. XXVIII
IIOOD RIVER, OREGON, THURSDAY, DECEMBER 21, 191 G
No. 30
MAS
SUGGES
:oms
Victor Victrolas and Records,
Johnston's Chocolates, of Milwaukee, in
Xmas Boxes,
Symphony Lawn Xmas Stationery at
very reasonable prices,
Eastman Autographic Kodaks and Sup
plies, L. E. Westerman's Ideal Fountain Pens.
Hudnut's Perfumes in Dainty Xmas Pack
ages, Large Variety of French Ivory Toilet and
Manicuring Sets,
Oigars in Xmas Boxes of 12s, 25s and 50s,
Kodak Art Calendars at 10c, 3 for 25c,
Xmas Post Cards and Xmas Folders.
Victrola Christmas Concert at the New High' School Auditorium
Friday, Dec. 22,1:30 to 3:30 p. m. Everybody Invited
KRESSE DRUG CO., n store
Eastman Kodaks and Supplies, Victor Victrolas, Records.
Come in and hear the latest December Records.
Victrolas $15 to $400. Very Easy Monthly Payments
Buy hisXmasPresent
at A Man's Store
Kuppenheimer Suits - Overcoats
Walkover Shoes
Gordon and Stetson Hats
Arrow Shirts and Collars
Cooper's Underwear and Hosiery
Traveling Bags, Suit Cases
Finest Neckwear, Handkerchiefs
Suspenders, Belts, Garters
Mackinaws, Sweaters
Umbrellas Raincoats
Bath Robes, Slippers
In fact everything in Men's Wear
is to be found here.
J. G. Vogft
Baskets
They will oe given away almost.
A lot Imported Arrived Late.
Work and Handled Baskets, 5c
to 35c each; Waste "Baskets, all
colors, 15c to 40c. Double this price would be cheap
for m6st of them.
Hi I and Uselful Presents in Pot
I irnflrnPmrH tery, China, Glass and Alumi-
vri uuiiivi uui num Ware at old prices We
are selling below to-day's cost.
Tit win on In Useful Tools make j choice
1 nOUSdllQS Presents' Salesman's samples
m Carvers, Razors, Scissors and
Cutlery at Cut Prices.
There is
a Present for Evervone'in 'our Im
mense Furniture department--such
presents as will be daily reminders.
LET US SAVE YOU BIG MONEY
We are fortified against present high costs with an im
mense stock and long contracts.
Stewart Hardware 4 Furniture Co.
The First Frost Has Fallen ME: 11eor
With the season's change will corne a desire to
change your menu. You will find everything desired
in the line of good things to eat at our'store. Just
give us a call for the best Hot-Cake Flour, Syrups of
all kinds, Breakfast Foods, Oatmeals, Cereals of the
Season, Breakfast Bacon, Etc.
The atmosphere of autumn will sharpen your ap
petitewe will furnish the foods.
Telephone 2121.
ARNOLD GROCERY CO.
Make this
Xmas Worth While
Give him a Suit or Overcoat and be sure
of getting Quality, Fit and Workmanship
combined.
Formerly Dale & Meyer
Phone 3342. 108 Third St.
CORN MEAL
in Hood River Valley, milled and
No better, fresher meal than this.
Made from corn grown
sacked by Kelly Bros.
Get it from your grocer
Kelly Bros. Corn Meal
The Fashion Stables Cars
To and from Parkdale are running on changed schedule.
Automobile now leaves Hood River daily at four o'clock
instead of four-thirty. Cars leave Parkdale daily at seven
thirty a. m. except on Sunday. Parkdale-Hood River trips
are made every Saturday night, machine leaving at six-thirty.
Travel right, when seeing the Mid-Columbia district and
tell your visiting friends about the excellent service of
The Fashion Stables
Telephone 1201
Hood River, Ore.
Shopper Has Choice of a Great Assort
ment of Offerings No Need to
Leave City for Gifts
XMAS SPIRIT
PERVADES CITY
MERCHANTS' DISPLAYS ATTRACTIVE
When the 'holiday ahopper desires a
rest, he may enjoy a rare moment
seated in the Keir atore eoiy eorner
listening to the latest records of the
Edison phonograph.
Down the street at the bis store of
the Bragg Mercantile Co. huge red
streamers and placards announce a
Christmas sale. The atore has numer
ous extra clerks busily engaged in at
tending the wants of the throngs of
customers. It is a kind of a red letter
event, and the color scheme of red is
carried out throughout the atore, ex
cept for the green trading stamps, the
S. & H. kind that Hood River people
Frederick & Arnold
Contractors and Builders
Estimate furnished on all kinds of work
Phones:
Frederick,
Arnold;
310
M. E. WELCH,
LICENSED TETERFSIEI SCRGE0N
Ii prepared to do any work In the veterin
ary Una. He can be fonnd by oalllnf at or
phoning to the Faihlon Stable.
Hood River Christmas sift shoppers
will not find it necessary to leave the
city to make their purchasea, whatever
they may wish to accompany their
Yuletide greetings to friend or rela
tive. Never have the offerings of Hood
River merchants been more varied or
handsomer than thia year. During the
past few days the windows of the Hood
Kiver stores, as up to date or more
so perhaps as any or a town or the
same size in the United States, have
taken on a wonderful change. Oregon
grape wreaths form borders, edgings
and backgrounds for wonderful arrays
of gifts. Wreaths of holly, fresh from
the greenhouses or forests, add a touch
ot vivid dark green. The poinsetttia,
flower of the Christmas season, flames
its greetings. The Christmas spirit is
already in the air.
Within the small bounds or Hood
River business district, Oak street and
State and the side streets from second
to Fourth, much business will be trans
acted this week and next, and up on
the Heights along Twelfth street mer
chants are greeting their patrons with
displays, significant of the season of
good cheer.
The Glacier will take the prospective
shopper on a round of the business
streets of the city, and thus furnish a
Christmas directory.
beginning on Uak street at the cor
ner of Fourth the first impression is
made when one looks at the great as
sortment of shoes, suits, hats and caps
n the first big show window. In the
ventral show window are articles, too
numerous to mention, that will delight
the hearts of the Hood River young
Bters. Dolls, teddy bears, mechanical
toys, wagons, make this store Santa
Claus headquarters. What one sees in
the windows is but a trine ot the
samples of the main stock of the big
Paris fair store. On the main floor
are furnishings of every description for
men and women, dry goods, perfumery,
soaps, gloves, toilet articles and sun
dry notions. The toy department.where
a child can spend the day in pleasure,
and the miMlinery department are on
the second floor.
Proceeding down Oak street to the
east one reaches the 5, 10 and 15 cent
store, another home for Santa Claus.
ThiB emporium for holiday goods at a
reasonable price and yet substantial,
will draw the kiddies by the scores the
next few days. The 5, 10 and 15 cent
store makes a specialty of candies, pur
chasing sweets by the ton.
what would be more acceptable lor
Christmas gift now than a good pair
of shoeB or a comfortable pair of bed
room slippers or moccasins, these
gifts for daddy and the boya and in
moccasins for the whole family are
found in the shoe store of J. C. John
sen. Mr. Jofinsen advises bis custom
ers to make their purchases now and
avoid the rise that is taking place in
all lines of leather goods.
Milady will look with wishing eyes
at the great assortment of perfumery
that is to be round at the corner uia-
cier pharmacy of C. N. Clarke. Mr.
Clarke is making a specialty of Christ
mas perfumes. He also handles an ex
cellent line of candies in box and bulk.
Here one may purchase for the eastern
or middle western inena a dox oi
Hood River apple bona. The shopper
may rest at Mr. Clarke's soda fountain
and refresh himself with the hot drinks
provided there.
Christmastime lor tne KiaiaeB ana oiu
folks would not be complete without
nuts, candies, raisins, oranges and
goodies. And a full line of all of these
appetiz;ng fruits and dainties are found
in the new store oi a. c naesser in
the Smith building. Mr. Kaesser's
show windows are always attractive.
The busv apple grower, who has
heen so absorbed durina recent weeks
in the harvest of his bumper crop of
apples and who has had no time to
think or the approacn oi ine iuieiiue
season, knows lull wen mai me com
ing of Kris Kringle draws near, wnen
he sees the windows of Slocom & can
field. The store affords the prospec
tive BhoDDer the opportunity ef buying
those things that will carry back to his
eastern friends and relatives articles
that will tell some of the story of the
Hood River valley. Here one may buy
the new book of rhymes, "Rhymes of
Our Vallev." bv Anthony H. Euwer.
Here is found photographs of the Hood
River valley, Mount Hood and the L-o
lumbia River Highway. Slocom & Can
field have recently added a line of in
expensive but handsome art calendars
each bearins an artistic photograph ol
gome Hood River valley scene. For
local friends, the giver may purchase
from the extensive stock of late pic
tures and nrints of the old masters,
In the same building with Slocom &
Canfield is found the old reliable gift
store of the Hood River valley. When
one wants an article that will last
throughout a generation and then be
handed down to daughter and son and
thence to grandchildren, he or she pur
chases some of the exquisite sterling
silverware that is displayed by Mr,
I.tftaway. Here is a wonderful array
of nainted china, the best in cut glass,
watches or the most lasting mane, ine
showcases are filled with those pretty
thmes made of the precious metals
The shelves are loaded with handsome
clocks, cut class vases, siler bowls, ail
ver tea services. Mr. Laraway buys
with care. His tastes are artistic and
ha knows the value of jewelry. Mr.
Laraway is one of the deans of the
iewelrv business of the state of Ore
eon. Before coming to Hood River he
nner a ted a laree store at Glenwood. Ia
He knowa especially well the value of
diamonds, and purchasers of these
"chios from the stars" will find Mr
Larawav'a suseestions of great worth
A. S. Keir, who rceently became sole
owner of the Keir & Cass drug store,
located in the old stand that peopl
have become accustomed to. has made
mecial preparations for the 1916 Yule
tide season. The tables and ahelves of
the store during the past week have
been loaded with Christmas candies,
Christmas cards, toys and and dollies
Attractive articles for young and old
may be found. "Ducky baddies" and
"Happifat" allure the kiddies. One
table ia loaded with boxea of assorted
sizes of Lowney'a and Whitman's fa
raous candies.
NEW SCHOOLS
ARE DEDICATED
LOCAL CONTRACTORS ARE BUILDERS
Audience at New High School Auditorium
Last Night Enthuses and Pride in
Model Structure Evidenced
ave become accustomed to call for
Dainty articles of wear for milady and
substantial gifts for men and boys are
too numerous to mention in this short
space, the Bragg a big show windows
bear a mute eloquent appeal and with
their handeome array of merchandise
may be taken as a criterion of the as
sortments to be found within.
Up at the corner of Second and State
streets, also with an entrance on Third
street for the furniture department.
may be found the great display of
goods of the Stewart Hardware &
urmture Co. The big apace ia crowd
ed with articles that are usful and sub
stantial and that are yet beautiful.
The housewife can here find articles of
adornment for her home, for bedroom,
dining room or living room. Stewart
has eleda and cutters for the young
sters, or a little axe, suitable for camp-
ng time, for the boy. In the furniture
department may be found rugs or arti
cles of house decoration that the hus
band may find for his wife. She may
find for him an attractive and pleasing
moking set. Sportsmen may well be
ttracted to the Stewart store bv the
line of guns, and while fishing season is
somewhat in the distance, the disciDle
of Izaak Walton likes to have nice
creels, fly hooks, etc.
1 raveling down Oak street one
reaches the store of the Blowers Hard
ware Co. at the corner of First street.
rticles of display here are strictly
tilitarian, yet the Christmas shopper
can well expend his money in the pur
chase of snowshoes, skiis or sleds. Men
ike pocketknives for Christmas gifts.
new knife is always acceptable.
The Blowers store carries an excellent
line of such articles, and everythig that
one may desire Horn a well equipped
hardware store will be found. Here
too, are wagons for the kiddies.
Crossing Oak street and turning
west one reaches the harness store and
hop of W. G. Weber, one of the best
harness shops for a town of the size of
Hood River in the country. Old Dob
bin will be mighty proud to have some
of Mr. Weber's new harness. Other
ems of merchandise that will make
pleasing Christmas gifts may be men
tioned as follows: Saddles, handbags,
atchfobB, auto robes and leather nov-
Ity goods.
Next comes the big department store
of E. A. Franz, where one may find
nything from a "shoofly" for the kid
ies to a full set of furniture. The
show windows of the Franz Co. have
attracted a wide attention during the
past several weeks. One window is
made to appear as a bedroom, fully
furnishd with a set that causes every
oman who passes it to look with cov-
tous eyes. The other windows show
silverware and toys. Franz' toy de
partment has never been more com
plete, and the counters of the big store
are loaded with hundreds of cut glass
and silverware articles. In the furni
ture department is something of nov-
lty a billiard and pool table. juBt as
complete aB any you will find in the
most elaborate pool parlor, lhe usual
ne of Hoosier cabinets and other arti-
lea of furniture, rugs, etc., are all to
be had at the Franz store.
Across Second street one comes to
Kresse's drug store, the home of the
popular Rexall articles and the Vicior
Victrolas. Cigars, in prettily decoraed
boxes, toilet articles, handsome boxes
of satior.ery, appealing packages of
Johnston's noted chocolates and can
dies, perfumes of character and 101 ar
ticles that will give pleasure to the re
cipient and afford the purchaser an op
portunity of getting his full money s
worth, whether he wants to spend nve
cents or five dollars. Kresse has re
ceived a full line of the famous Vic
tors, and his line of records is as com
plcte as one might find in the most
metropolitan store.
Located in the Brosius building is the
store of the Arnold Grocery Co. Here
will be found the articles that are the
delight of children of all ages on
Christmas morning, candies of all sorts
and nuts, raisins, cakes and condiments
for the making of Christmas foods
The Arnold store is in a hum of activ
ty and will continue so until late Sat
urday night, but the employes of the
store declare that they are never too
busy to receive phone orders from their
numerous city customers, and that the
most careful and courteous attention
will be given to all.
Next to Arnold a is Joe u. vogt s
exclusive men's toggery store. Here
will be found gifts second to none in
appropriatenessfor father, the boy you
want to please, or son. Mr. Vogt's
show windows are filled with specimen
ties, handbags and other gifts, hut
they are not all shown. Just step in
side and Mr. Vogt or Mr. Gessling will
bring out just what you want. The fol
lowing may be round at Mr. vogt a
Traveling bags, suit cases, finest neck
wear, neckwear, suspenders, belts,
garters, mackinaws, sweaters, umbrel
las, bathrobes, raincoats and slippers
The shopper next arrives at the atore
of Frank A. Cram, who bas devoted
most of his life to the mercantile busi
ness and a great part of that time has
been spent here in Hood River, learn
ing the wants and desires of Hood Kiv
er patrons. Mr. Cram's store and
his big windows were among the first
10 take on the appearance significant
of the Christmas spirit. The windows
were early filled with gifts appropriate
for men. women, little boys and little
ffirls. A mere man shopper can tell
the women of Hood River but little of
the woman a side of the Cram atore.
They already know, and you will find
them there calling for the newest high
class materials used by the fair ones in
making op their garments. But the
man shopper should not overlook the
things that uiy be found over on the
cent's furnishing side. Ties, shoes,
slippers, robes, smoking jackets, etc,
They are all there, but apeciai mention
should be given that line or new mack'
inaw overcoats. They II please the
men.
On Third street in the Heilbronner
building it the store of Mr. Ha Smith
Dean. Thia place has been thought of
as an exclusive millinery store, but
such is far fcom the ease. Mrs. Dean
thia year is calling her store "The
Christmas Gift Shop," and this, really,
ia an appropriate name: for the win
(Continued on Seven Page)
Hood River's new brick high school
annex and the new model brick pri
mary achool, the latter named for Na
thaniel Coe and wife, the founders of
Hood River, have been completed.
thrown open and inspected by the
school patrons of District No. 3. The
new buildings were formally dedicated
at a meeting held last night at the new
high school auditorium, where one of
the city's most enthusiastic audiencea
as assembled to bear the addresses of
congratulation. A new sense of pride
as manifest in the faces of the stu
dents of the different schools, and the
enthusiasm of their children was reflect
in the expressions of mothers and
fathers. The meeting was character'
ized by a general feeling of gratification.
Those participating in the formal
program were: Hiss Lillian crock, M.
Warren. Geo. A. Wueat. Mrs. W. F.
Rand, president of the Parent-Teacher
ssociation; Dr. C. H. Jenkins, chair
man or the school board; Prof. Mc
Laughlin, city school superintendent:
Prof. Crites. principal of the High
school ; Floyd Wright, president of the
gh school student body; J. A.
Churchill, state superintendent of edu
cation ; Prof. Gibson, county school su
perintendent; Mrs. Pauline Miller
Chapman and Mrs. C. E. Coffin. Rev.
A. MacDonald pronounced the invo
cation.
Experts in primary scheol construc
tion, who have visited the Coe primary
school, declare that it is a model in
every particular. The new high school
annex, it is declared, will enable the
school to become doubly efficient in the
departments of industrial education
hich it will house.
Hood River's pride may be displayed
n her local builders ; for both new edi
fices were erected by local contracting
firms. Stranahan & Slavens built the
high school annex, while Frederick &
mold were the builders of the Coe
primary school. Both firms of builders
are to be congratulated on the excel
lence of their work, and the structures
ill endure as monuments to their
craftsmanship.
We have something of which all or
in Hood River will be proud for
years to come," says Dr. Jenkins, "but
best of all, at least the most gratifying
to us who urged the construction of the
new builidngs, is the general backing
we have had from the people of Hood
River. .As soon as the bond fight was
over, even those who opposed us oa
this issue, got behind us, and gave ua
their support and encouragement, and
today one hears the new school struc
tures spoken of practically unanimous
ly as our schools.'
"Too much credit for the good work
done in the construction of the new
schools cannot be given Prof.McLaugb-
n and C. J. Crandall, of The Dalles,
the latter our architect. Mt. Crandall
worked faithfully to the end that we
might get just what we wanted and
needed. We gained much through the
generalship of Mr. Crandall and Prof.
McLaughlin.
One of the men of Hood Kiver who
worked the hardest and most conscien
tiously for the new school buildings
was Frank A. Cram, chairman of the
school board at the time of the election
bonds. Accordingly Mr. Cram can
take a just pride in the new school
tructures.
"I am glad," says Mr. Cram, "that
we have accomplished our aims. It is
gratifying to us who were on the school
board to know that our work today has
the approval of the patrons of the dis
trict. We have got our money s
worth."
"We are wonderfully pleased with
the new buildings," says Mrs. Alma
Howe, who is serving her second term
on the school board, "and now that we
have better facilities we are going to
have better schools. 1 take an equal
pride in the two new school buildings,
for they both fill a need. Before I have
finished let me express an appreciation
of the work of Mr. Cram as a member
of our board at the time of the cam
paign to secure the new structures.
Mr. Cram studied the needs or the city
schools and he pot in bis best efforts
for the new schools because he sincere-
believed there was a need for
them."
E. O. Blanchar. the new member of
the school board, elected after the bond
election, says:
I have watched with interest the
construction of the school buildings.
Our contractors and architect, Mr.
Crandall, all have done good work.
Mr. Crandall has shown this skill as a
designer of school buildings and he
gave the constrcution work his closest
attention. The people of the school
district may well feel that they have
received full value for their money.
Hood River county, proportionate to
population, is now equipped with
school buildings that will compare fa
vorably with any section of Oregon.
Prof. McLaughlin wishes to announce
a change in the program as published
last week. It was stated that at the
public literary program to be rendered
tonight at the high school auditorium,
only students and alumni of the school
would be invited. The invitation is now
extended to the general public. Stu
dents under the eighth grade nay at
tend the meeting provided they.are ac
companied by their paronts.
KELLY BROS. NOW
MAKING CORN MEAL
Hood River's newest industry Is a
corn meal mill installed by R. iW. and
Fielding Kelly at their grain and apple
warehouse on Railroad avenue. Kelly
Bros, will make a specialty lof meal
ground from corn grown in the Hood
River valley. The product will be put
up in attractive packages and will be
sold by local grocers. A fresh supply
of the product will be ground weekly.
thus enabling housewives to secure the
batter bread material fresh at all
timea. Epicures declare that corn
meal that baa been subjected to the
dry-kiln ia lacking in the elements that
make the corn-pone of the South a fa
vorite food.
