FULL LEASED
Y.'IIIE UISPATCHES
CIRCULATION IS 1
OVER 4000 DAILY
THIRTY-NINTH YEAR o.275
SALEM, OREGON, THURSDAY, DECEMBER 21, 1916
PI? in TWO rPWTO ON THAWS AJTO OTTST
mm Hah
rfir M fitrtrwtrtr
! L - . f 1111.11-. 1 I II I I 1 II II - 1 1 II
Washington, Dec. 21. Plainly hinting that there is
danger of the United States beinc drawn into the war.
Secretary of State Lansing
... t.u:j m
iea&uii uemiiu. x resilient vvusons message to uie
(belligerents. '
The situation of the United States, as a neutral, is
:J1 1 : a1 1.1.
mpjuiy ueuumiiig inunerauie, ne saia. inereiore tne: any change in itsh policy of neutral
president has demanded a show-down. hty," toward an the belligerent nations,
Lansing authorized the following statement as being i ?"citita,y ii!mk declared this nfter
the real purpose behind the Wilson message : - j "c',n "l ,a fo"1 Bt"t,;n,c,,t' hiBh h,e
-lii i ii i 5? ., ! explained supplemented one he made
Our rights have been invaded and the situation is: earlier today. This. second statement
becoming so intolerable that it cannot gO On long. j was made, Lansing said, because his
"More and more our rights are invaded by the belliger-ifirst uai1 heKa subjected to "various
ents on both sides so that the situation is becoming in- j :uet,01,s lui bad "ot mmat ,0
rt'pasinHv ri'itipnl. T inpnn hv thzt. that, ivp ni-p rrrnwincr! The secretary said that if it were
T i.i c-
nearer to the verge of war
know what each belligerent seeks in order that we can
'regulate our conduct in the future.
"It was not our material interests that were concerned
when we said the situation might become intolerable. We
have prospered by the war, but our rights have been
invaded."
Causing emphasized posilivoly that
the German peace proposal and the
l.tyyd-C'rcorge speech had nothing to do
":JnTl'y?u0tex'
1 p"" iu .., "" I
On this point he authorized a quota
tion as follows:
"No nation hns been sounded on this
matter and we did not knuw in advance
v, hat Lloyd-George would, fay. And
l ere was no .consideration of German
overtures or the speech of Lloyd-George :
in. connection with the formation of thig fej,d previously given to the press.
nMe. , t
"The only thing the German over-1 Hitchcock Has Resolution,
twres did was possibly to delay the note Washington, Dec. 2.1 Senator Hitch-
r'ew days. 'cock, Nebraska, presented a resolution
"It was not finally decided to SPmlltodav endorsing i'resident Wilson's
this until Monday, (the note was sent,
Monday night and Tuesday morning),
a ue uiiiu uii; umi luicu luc piUBHH-lll.
w is Tnat me note mignt De consrruea as
n Mioyemeut for peace, aud m aid of the
German overtrures. He speciticnlly oe
iiii'S that that mis a factor in the com -
imiuication itseir."
Previous to" authorizing the above
quoted statement Lansing had talked
...ore freely thamisual and in the same
te-ior.
it nact peen suggestea to nira mat,
hn United States really vas in no posi-
tion to stop the war ualess the bolliger-
fnts tnemseivcs desirea to end it; to
fhis he hinted that if the United States
wiitrn tn oritur flm Ural if fiiiri fliii
Bc-do decidedly and he emphasized tliafc "That the senate strongly endorses
there was a feeling of danger that tho and approves the action taken by the!
country would be drawn in. president in sending diplomatic notes
He had also said that there wa9 in the under date of December lti to the ua
administration's mind no purpose toi... . now engaged iu war suggesting I
fiu'igesr peace in any way.
On the contrary, he explained that :
w ;iat had been generally mterjireted as :
a desire to learu the peace terms of bol hi
.sids was in reality an effort to ns'-er-
tain "what would satisfy the bellige:-
ents as to ending the war," but with
tiie viewpoint of rendering the position
,4 . 1... :..i...i i.i.
ni-uiiiii.s n-ns iiuuieruuiv. 1
Lansing's -whole talk emphasized the
ilea tlint "WC Will have to do some-
thing" if American rights are further
invaded and if both sides continue in-
f tactions of international law which in-
American lives, property and
tl&U, - .
Amhi,An. P,n .
Washington. Dec. 21. A number of ,
"Hookii an' eves have gone up five
dents on account o' th' war an I didn'
fcr.ow soldiers nsed "em," said Miss
leswn Lippineut,' t "day. 1 don't know become the agents and purveyors of a
whether it's because ther hard up er,Corman pcaee. '
not,, but it does seem like folks fcrrj I '
BUa ier unJcr Wilson. . ' (Continued on page two.)
today said this was the real'
TTrii :.. j. n
l . 1 rnl r ji .
-. i ."
and therefore are entitled to
ambassadors from belligerent countries!
called on Secretary Lansing today, pre- j
sumablv to receoive and discuss the note,
forwarded toW nations. Included in i
. .1.. T.:."..v. t
the list were the British, Italian, Japan
ese, German, Bulgarian, T'ersian and
Turkish nmbnsasdors.
Lansing delivered a printed copy o'f
the note to. each of the diplomats, but
2 1 1 .1 1 .. i .: a.
the explanation of its intent thnt he
M litl US NHS H'UlIIUU, U1U I1U1 gi u mem
note to the warring powers and asked
immediate consideration of it. Senator!
ISOiaH, lliailO, OppOSCU 11111110
tion of tho resolution
The resolution was introduced
news of Secretary Laiisinir
tory statement"' had reached
itol.
Borah said that while the president's!
offer evidently -was made with the best !
intentions, he felt a resolution by the
senate should be -withheld ft this time
and suggested that a more effective
piaa for bringing about peace may lat-
er present itself. I
The resolution was referred to the
committee on foreign relations. It fol-
1 I
possible negotiations to arrange the; been rele-ised for publication h-ie at 'i
terms of peace. " jo 'clock this afternoon,
"Kesolved, That it is the sense ofj The note has been received at the
the senate that the action of the presi-'foreign office, but its contents leimiiii
dent represents the overwhelming pub-! undisclosed.
lie sentiment and earnest desires of the1 -
opople of the United States-" i ' Indignation Expressed
mm ti:. iMii.'iiviniin mi- .mm i,-"s in
1
iew n oi'K, ui-c. 1. rri ate 111 cs-!
Kahn Pleads for Haste.
Wi nutnn IW 'A1Vhi Infrn'mn,
of Secretary Lansing's declaration that
the United'States is in an "intolerable
postition," Representative Kahn, Call-
ioniia. sitting with tho house military '
committee, rose and -said dramaticallv":
"Gentlemen of the committee mnke'of the British government in refusing ,
: . ' .
volcano. " ;
Bryan Endorses Move.
Mtrinil I'll. TW 91 IT nn.
dorsemeiit." o'f President Wilson 's note '
to the belligerent nations was madej01;'1.1-3 i.-gaio ug uie message
elligerent nations was ntade j .e "garding the message
,y by William Jennings Bryan,!.'" J'"5. f'",tl!'' J ,"', n,Ht"
cretary of state. " 'laa J1." ia cll;,lts ' "th j".'"1""
president has rendered a dis- f"'1 1 tp to an early hour th.s at-
ice in throwing the great iu. ternoon, however, no word of acknowl-;
here today
former secretary
"The
tinct service in throwing the great iu
1 f...Bn 1.;. ,. :..i i..r 1... u .. . .
L... i..'..:i, .. )) i. 1
SOUTH AMERICA IN LINE
By Charlej P. Stewart.
(Lnitea rress start corresponneiit-)
Buenos Aires, Dec. 21. Argentina ib .
certain to support fragment ttiison'Sip
plea for peace. The warmest approval, i f
expresseu uy memocrs 01 tne govern
ment here, was coupled with the predic
tion that the whole continent would be
a unit in its support of such a step.
Officials were swept off their teet
with surprise at the ote and formal
comment was not immediately obtain- j
able. Informally, however, they ex-1
pressed the belief that the president's!
plea for a definition of the terms of I
peace ou.both sides was most time'y auri !
seemed to have fair prospect of success.j
'
AMERICAN PRESS COMMENT
New York, Dec. 21. New York news-!
papers today coiiimeuted on President
Wilson's note as follows:
Tribune: American influence for real
peace is now abolished. Today we have
I No Change of Policy
Contemplated by United
States, Secretary Lansing
Washington, Dec. 21 The Vnitcd
States government is "not considering
found that portion o'i the president's
: communication to belligerent, where u
was saiu tne situation is becoming "n
tolerable" to this country, was found to
have experienced the sumo "miscon
structions," it might be necessary to
send a supplementary or explanatory
note to the belligerents.
The official copy of Secretary Lans
ing's second statement, said:
"I have learned from several quar
ters that a wrong impression was made
1 ' " 3 I wU., nLLf 1 L V!'"
lirt3Si0, My intention was to suggest
the verv direct and necessary interest
which this country, a, one of the iieu-
;tral nations lias in the poss b e terms
which the belligerents may have in
mind, and I did not intend to intimate
that tho government was considering
any change in its policy of neutrality,
'which it has consistently pursued in the
1 J n . . . ' . .....
face of constantly increasing differ
ences. I regret that w words were op
en to any other construction as 1 now
realize that they were. I think that the
whole tone and language of the note to
the belligerents shows the purpose with
out further comment on my part. It is
needless to say that 1 am unresei vei lv
in support of that purpose and hoi
see it accomplished."
etol
unilitellioible
wit hoiit t in first "
'"l)iilv,,r klt t u, ;,ui .1.!..
nfternnnn hnvo nnvtl.l..,, t, ii ,'..ui. ;..
ilmfp ni on-1 llnw niwmt- in fii-ui- o(nt.i,nt :.,
r (imn-iiicin, J- ; ViUIIIiUIl V TO UUOllSU IlH.r TlPiicfl 'nw1itino . . - . r- j . m,x, i iwui nuu
I sueu earlier today?'1 Lnnsinir was nV- ns Ilia rintv ctnn 1a tuIII i. .1: :..t. i . II('Rlre to piny a part in connection i despairs engendered from which there
before 'ed. "Does that still sland?" Sflinnlimmnn ,m..u.i i' .:L...i,' with tho recent overtures of the can be no recovery, hopes of peace1
's "exiiaua-i "Whv. cnrtaiiilv " in,.l;...i t .:.,.. ii.t i... : : .i , y i central powers. It has. in fact. Wn ami ot the willimr nonwri ,vf tm ..nn
the cap-1 " 1 he second would be
. 1 . --"jj 1 ..,,..,.,1 i.u. 1.11,1.. .mm. lm- mi leiiui cnaucenor. v nn Knth. ... 7 . ' . ... . :
suance of this second statement?" bejrciocU overture, of pence f b v ns'k.W
was asked.
"You will have to ask the president
about that?" Lansing replied
r ! I j- ,
L.IiEIJSnIT!n InUlfnant
. . O
Over President's Message
and Publication Delayed
London. Dec. 21. President VVilsnn'u
jiu:s.ajc 11) tne in: 11 1 erci ts had no
-I-,-, .. ... ...
jsuges received here to.lav stated that
llietl ll: 1 lil lilltis I '.hvhim rni. ill- nm.
'i!s had -oienl yoxpivsse.l the most in
tense indignation at th.- action of Pres-1
i'l;ut Wilson in addressing-his peace !
message to the belligerents. This atti- !
t n'.v be responsible for the action i
i.i. ni iidii 1
to permit 1 ho ,,i,ii.-,t i,, nf n, y;i
message 111 London today. ;
, . '
u is apparent Irom the above dis-j""
Ijintch that tho British censor has held
"p a" I're-'s "jisi-aties from the United
IV. ! V. 1 .... .1 . .. . .. . a" ' -
clili,,n "iu uuru recei vl-u j roin 1 aris.
it.ables from Prance and
E.vA'nH
silent so far as comment
t on the note;
.Tin i v aw j ui aa uumit-ui un nit; uui r j
was concerned; Obviously no comment,
offieiailv or otherwise, will b nvl!.
at,l in l.r.n,inn until ,,...., .... I
1kmoU b the cf.BSOr
, m
, . , ""2- " ii
IJ J 1 (
0086' "rCSldCnt 1 2.11
Makes War Prediction
Fall River, Mass., Dec. 21. William
NnixraMl Tuft- ciic l iiiir f,.. tl.a I
it,, Knfnrcn iw l,i,r v-t..r,in.. L
dieted that if the machinery of war
continues to grow, the next conflict will
finj the United States a participant,
"All nations, when the curtain falls
upon the terrible panorama of strife
and bloodshed on the Kuropean battle
fields, will be looking to us," he said.
"They will look to us to prevent a
repetition of the terrible catastrophe
that has shocked the world and all but
prostrated nations. This places a trust
upon us. It is a trust to help if we
can, She loss fortunate brother.
"If the machinery of war continues
to enlarge and grow more terrible, tho
next war, as. President Woodrow Wil
son has said, will be a war with no
neutrals.
,
EXTRA B. B. DIVIDEND
AND BONUS FOB MEN
New York, Dee. !!. TLe I'n
imi Pacific rnilroad today de
clared on extra dividentof 2
jier cent on its common stock
and a bonus of one mouth's snl-
arv 1 for em loves who leieive
less than $1S00.
This bonus was granted to all
r employes without discrimination
as to membership in the broth-
erhoods. The directors also
adopted a plan for insurance
for all the luad's employes with
salaries under $1,000 a year.
.
GERMANS RESENT
GEOHCE'S AHSWER
-TO PEACE NOTE
People of Emipre Determined
to Carry On War to
. Bitter End
ADDRESS OF BRITISH
PREMIER READ BY ALL
Even Socialist Leaders Op
pose Publicity of Peace
Conations
j By Carl W. Ackerman.
I (Tutted Press staff correspondent.)
Berlin, Dec. 21. The German nublie
is determined to corrv on the war in 1 y conc,s,ou anae8 out of a mam-, must precede those ultimate nrurnge
view of Premier I lov.l.;a,,ri fest .neces8lty to determine how best nieuts for the peace of the world
speech. Utterances of tho H.itih ni-imo
minister have examined -'ike by
the humblest citften and th'e ' hiJS iest of
ficial from the grand hendquiirtrs to
- - r. i , . ...r"',la to continue.'7
I I I n III
la the unw. T i nff.i,, ,,i,.,,.:..t ,.,:n
u..iv. iii; UAliVIllll VlfWUilllll, Will
J made known in all probability1
She receipt of the official text ot
lies' reply.
not ue
I until th
; ! I,n ollloul
Kven the socialist leader. Dr. Scheidn.
mann, declares if Llovd-Geoiffe exnects
Vi...". ....ti! , , ' s
... '
nmnn-Hnlluoir fnlln, ,1::..
i ; . f
mi.....,.?. . ..
,. ' 'wn.nl'S ,n
Germany's terms, knowing no belligcr-
eiu can puunsu its terms."
Continuing; he points out that, al
though Lloyd-George's statement nisvl
Potsdam. The general public's verdict!""' T ,'"6 M'nlral 1 owers tll,s rara-
seem to make impossible, the public i r"',' 1 ' ""Kgesuon do con-
Germany has made itself heard 1 Ge"! ihJ11? Z- "'ffi' 81,3 "8
,, ' 1,... ti 1. 1" " ha(t been made in Wher circum-
' ' " Bum u si.'i.
The
A ill; M luvt: hl.lM V UHH Tl'rillllll hi
course, before publication of President i lu s i''s i.ie piace
Wilson's peace 'suggestions. "ythe one just quoted: ,
English Answer.
c 21 Fmrhi'ml ni,l inr
ibablv answer (let ,,,v's
ith i, the .i.t 4N r,f;,
London. De
allies will probal.
peace nore witnin the next 4 hours. I
The identical replies of the entente na-i
irs.
tioils will bn disTititfbn,! nf tlwi
meT
tihn thnt ;,. n,,i,...,.; " i,. . ll'I'owers
the dinlomatie renrei.,t.,f .......
nimuiuineousiv nam ci toi
tine (.11 .unmaiie reil resentfil ivpm fit unit.'..
.... 1 ., , """ -
L ,. ,,-f 7 , ,' 1 i
' . "- "i'iii.r.
Expectation that the allies' answer
,, '", , , , , l,Kl0''e Nitiirdny was
,a 0,1 Kl 0 ,8e , t r "V' ,y iy
lTr'''!'L "J.t "',.tUi' ,l!!Xt
t r l " PVerl8"rce 'rT 1''',
would be ready before Saturday
,. . . ....
01 -"'"!'lay a "e". a. ""' k'.ownthe
general terms ot the Uermnii proffer
a
and that nigland has a so been exchang-
' ,
:; . "'""- on me iorm
"-t'v '
t,. ,.. 01 rift- , . 1 !
Bon e, Dec. 21,-Oft r ials, the press
, " ' ,,;1KS' , p 'TH
,1, ?, P,6f ?. rfly I tha
' "1 Tn ,J 'l M lTU" "? Tt
Wtto race vo ced by Prem.er.loyd-;
Wge an 1 forn er Premier Asqu.th, It
i. .'.r.i ii ..! ,.: ' ' '
tire agreement l,Ptw tl, n; .
. an-i uu nn oiues mat mere is en-
the form which the rejection of Ger-
"'o iwuii mu tue 1 1 juc lull ui Ur-
man's proffer took and that this proffer
has brought, abnut .,.!, 1,, , , , .1
,.,... ...i ......".,... " ,
r- .e u nimu un,
Panama Canal will
Soon Be On Paying Basis
V.n, rnlr Tl Ol fll.. Tl. ll. I
.-cnr mm, I'ct. il. i nv IjllllCIl
in i.. .i.i. ..
faiv wBriVhsh shZ
the Panama canal, General George W.
Goethals,former governor of the canal
zone declared today in an address to
the New York Merchants association at
the Astor hotel here. He said Ameri
can ships soon would be placed on the
same basis of canal tolls as British
vessels through a bill now in congress.
The United States, Goethala saidJ
soon will begin payment of the debt on
the canal through revenue from its use.
He predicted traveling soon will be
come faster because slides liuve been
stopped by widening of tho channel.
He favored turning over resources of
the canal zone to American merchants,
contending that, as American money
bad paid for development, Americans
should gain the profit.
PRESIDENT WILSON IS
SENDING PEACE APPEAL
TO WARRING NATIONS
Washington, Dec. 21. president Wil -
son has appealed to all the belligerents
to discuss terms of peace.
Without actually proposing" peace or
offering mediation, the president has
Bent formal notes to the governments
of all the warring nations suggesting
that "an early occasion be sought to
call out from the nations now at war
such an avowal of their respective
views as to the terms upon which the
war might be concluded and the ar
rangements which nXvould be deemed
satisfactory as a guarantee against
its renewal or j'& kindling of any
similar conflict iiWlie future, as would
make it, possible frankly to compare "In the measures to bo taken to se
them. " I ; cure the future pence nt tho wnrlil n,
Wholly wi -out Aotice nud entirely
contrary to what administration of
ficials have described as his course,
the president last night dispatched
the notes to all the belligerents and
to all tho neutrals for their informa
tion. Toxts Begin Identically.
The notes to the belligerents are
prefaced with this instruction by .See
'retary Lansing to the .American am
bassadors presenting them:
"The president directs me to send
you the following communication to
be presented lmemdiately to the min-
ister of foreign affairs of the gov-
eruments to which you are accredited."
The texts of the notes themselves
then begin identically, as follows:
"The president of the United States
lias instructed mo to suggest to the
(nero is inserted a designation of the
government addressed) a course of
action with regard to the present war
which he hopes that the eovernincnr.
will take under consideration as sug-
gested in the most friendly spirit Rnd
..a ,.vri viuj iium u menu, out
also as coming from tho rcpresenta-
tive of a neutral nation whose intor-
ests have been most seriously affected
by the war and whose concern for its
.lo ul-Buru inose interests it tlio war.wmcli alt desire and in which the neu
Embarrassment, Experienced. .
At this point tae'textu vary, In flio
t j. j .i . . , . . .
"!'.
tfLa u , .,,.. , . , .
, , agRef,tlon winch I am in -
ftructd1 .make the president has
long had it in mind to offer. Ho is
7"mtwnr. enmarrassea to otfer it at
' 1 il miij
nOW Seem to have been Tirniimtml liv n
uira nn rri,11 ini tin, a KnnA..n
lu no way suggested by them in lis
"lOrigin ana the president, woo d hnvn
delayed offerina it until those nvnr.
laf?e-!tures had been indennnd..ntlv n.
SWClcd bu,t or 11,0 fact that it also
" " i"t i - Ml VZ" 1 7.. .1 .. ?.
may best be considered in connection precedented contest of arms. No 11a- casualties wore very slight ' All advant
with otlier proposals which have tho tion in the civilized world can be said age remained 011 the Kuulish side ami
1 . , I, 7 ' "e I'resulnt an
i. m. . ki
ion bo con-
stances." '
In the note to the entente allies the!
n ,. . .
lUe SllJI-frnalinn U'llWll I nm in.
!r!? )la(1 a in min1 to "fie1'- He is
somewhat embarrassed to offer it at
itl11" rai'ticular time, because it may
i 1 . ,
" " i 10 llavo neeu prompted by
. " . . . i-iiiiiii
It
in fact,
.1 ...ut. .x . ' .... "
in no way as-1
?MU"UU ",,r "'".' ngin nn.l
too iresiueiit would have
. .. 4
lelnyed of
tering it unlil those
l'---""f, ....i.- ...w.v "Mlllllin ll.l'l
1 I 1 . o n ...
.unrl 1....I
i.i'cii iinswereii, put, lor me tact that
it also coiiceins the question of pence
fllll
'"
hav.
de.r
may best be considered in con-
tion with other proposals which I
ive the same end in view. Tho presi-
iii:iib i-uii iiiiiv iii'i. iniir. iiih Niiirui.ui 1 1111
,,e considere,f entrrolv on its i , r.
1 r. r'ntl lllliv linir Mini 111a uii,ru,.u4 1.111
..... j ...j, ...... ..... ..hei.,.
... vMi.iv.j u,, hi, iinn ini;i - j
i!' . J
us unu as 11 u nan pecn marie 111 other.,
cirCumstances. "
Avowal of Views Suggested.
Then all notes proceed identically as'
follows- I
the president suggests that nn '
.., ' im. b. aolllt tn ,. '
early occasion bo sought
from all the nations now
an avowal of their respect
t0 th, tm9 fl0n hic
nii ,,t 1)6 confiUl k,d . ,,,,
at war such
tive viows as
which tho war
might be concluded . and the arrange-
lnems wn,cn wtM,ll tje 'lecmc.l satis-
..,,. ,..i,:,,i, ,..,..,1,1 i... 1 ,.,,. 1
l'!"!35?. J -I
, l 4 v, i, : ,. ,11 : i
"1, r .1 " s ' i
conrhct n the future ns would make
t possible frankly to compare them, i
H. iB in-iifforant na tn the mnnna
taken to accomplish this- He would
pe hnnnv nimse r to nerve, nr even tn
toKe tne initiative in its accomplish
ment in any way that might prove
acceptable, but he has no desire to
determine the method or the instru-
..i:-,
mentality,
One way will be as ac-
? a another if only the
great-object ho has in mind be at
tained.
"He tawes tho liberty of calling
attention to the fact that the objects I
n.l.:.l. U. ...... 1L. 1.. Ill 1
which the statesmen of tho belliger
ents on both sides have in mind in this
war are virtually the same, as stated
in general terms to their own people
and to the world. Each Bide desires
to make the rights and privileges of
weak peoples and small states as Be
. . . . , ., i.....n, 1..1J I.1...1U nn-. n,i ui'spnc mi.' Dun wininer it was per
structed to make, the president has samo on both sides. Never yet have fcctlv plain that the British Tire -h
euro against aggression or denial inland well known in the United States,
tne future as the rights and pnvi-
leges or tne great ana powerful states
now at war. Each wishes to be made
secure in the future, along with all
oioer . imuous anu peoples, against ,
the recurrence of wars like this and
against aggression of selfish inter-,
; ferenee o'f any kind. Each, would be
jealous of the formation of' any more
j rival leagues to preserve an uncer-
tain balance of power amidst multi-
i plying suspicions, but each is ready
to consider tho formation of a league
of nations to insure peace and justice
throughout the world. Before that
I final step can be taken, however, each
deems it necessary first to settle the
issues of the present war upon terms
which will certainly safeguard the in
dependence, the territorial integrity
and the political and commercial free
dom of the nations involved.
United States Vltallv Conrernart
people and government of the United
8tates are as vitally and as directly
interested ns tho governments now at
war. Their interest, moreover, in the
means to be adopted to relieve the
smaller and weaker peoples of the
worjd of the peril of wrong mid
Violence is as quick and ardent as that
ot any otlier peoples or government
Thev stand rea.lv. and even ..n,...r '
co-operale iu the accomplishment of !toilny climbing up steadily to the rec
these ends, when the war is over, with :ord held by Franco's otlier star air man
every influence and resource at their bub-Lieutenant Cuyneuicr. The uu
command. But the war must first be'nouncemet was made i connecfiou with,
concluded. The terms unnn whirl, it'lhn ilav'a nffiiul ,,....,. j.
is to be concluded they are not at lib -
j erty to suggest, but the president
Hoes teel that it is his right and hi9
duty to point out their intimate inter
ests in its conclusions, lest it should'
Tjieseimv ue too late to ncpmrntliuh
the greater thines which lie bevntul
its conclusion; lest the situation of railway station at Anizy,rieulle9 Bur
neutral nations, now exceedingly hardjMeuso, Charleville, Mezures and Nesles.
to endure, be rendered nltntwMini- In- On tho Htrnmo r.t ; l h,j.,
'tolerable, and lest, moro than all, an
injury be done civilization itself which
m-vei ue aioneu ior or repairea.
"The president, therefore, feels al-
together justified in suggesting an
immediate opportunity for a compnri-
son of victfs as to the terms which
tral nations, as well as those tit war.
nre ready to play their full responsible
pari, it uie con'esT must continue to
proceed towards undefined ends by
slow attrition until the one grouiv of
, ... . ,, " . , '
1 belligerents or the other is exhausted,
' if million after million of human lives
must continue to be offered up until
on the one side or-the otlier there is
nn mr... A ni-'.. i j , .. l
.huic lu m.vr, 1L reseninieurs muHt
h kind o.l Hint Hail nniMH nr.i.1 .....1
pies will be rendered vain and idle.
Life of World Affmtii .
"The lif nf lh.. i.nti,.n w,m i.atl, !,.!,;' '... .. , y . lo
i been tirnfmnulK- nffn,.tn,l ..'f
of the great family of 'mankind has
. " T1"' "l
of this on-
. - .. . .
m to "tniul outside its influence
or 10 oe sate agai
, Jf , Al" th
for which it is bcintr
or to be safe against its disturbing
tne concrete objects
waged Have never
1 W iA.,it..iv
"The leaders of the several f.elliger-
...
ems nave, as nas peon said, stated
those objects in general terms. But,
GtutAll ill nimnnl In.m. 4l.., L.nr..., 1.1...
the authoritative spokesmen of either
side avowed tho precise objects which
'would, if attained, satisfy them and
. . ' . "...
Hicir people that the war had been
fiifiii .nil, in,- muni nas ui-eii n-n.uiier nuacK against tne Hntish in a
to conjure what, (let unlive results,!
what actual exchange ot gnuriiutees,
what political or territorial changes or
readjustments, what stage of nii'itary
success even, would bring the war to nn
end.
" It, mav be that pence is nearer limn
we known: that the terms which the
bullieerents on the one side mid on
f ... ..... .1 .I....... Ii. ...
,,,,, 1, ii.-.-iii 11 i,v..-n-ni 1,1
tin iniw.,. 11,111 , .inn... if i.fi.w.ui.i ,. 1.,
' .t J , , 1 . ' . .I i.i.
nir,Il UjlUU Hll- II 1 1 (. Ml) II JI'I'llllCI I I1U
1 ; ' ' .'. """" 1
ns .some have feared: that nn nier-lK
change o'f views would clear the way rine, a Berlin statement received here
at least for conference and make the ' today asserted- The undersea boat sank
permanent concord of the nation,! ajtho warship on November 2fi off tha
hofie of the immediate future a con-; Portuguese coast nnd the entire crew
cert of
Hni.i
nations immediately prac- i
"The president is not proposing
peace: he is not even offerinir media-
tion. He is merely proposing that . !
.ounrlings be taken in order that w!m
may learn, the neutral nations with!.
1 . 1 . 1 , . . , , j
Vl bt'Uicrc,,t ,
iH'fli the lmven
i i i n
- o-u o mai in, ior which an man-
kind longs with an intense and in-
creasing longing. He believes that
i, Mi.;,; t i.. .i, ;-i. 1, ,i ti... i
objects which he seeks will be tinder-j
ctnn.l l.ir oil i,r,iw..,ri,,,l .inl l.
fidently hopes for a response which
... . l 1 . ....
will bring a jiew light into the affairs
of tho world." .
The note to the entente group will
be delivered to Great Britain, Prance,
Italy, Japan, Kussia, Belgium, Monte
negro, Portugal, Rumania, and Ser
bia. That to the central allies will be
delivered to Germany, Austiia-Hun-
gary, Turkey and Bulgaria.
T. , . a i- . ..
lt is being delivered to all neutral
i governments for their information.
GRAHAM WHITE MARRIES
London, Dee. 21. Claude Grnhame
White, one of England's first aviators
.was today married to Ethel Levy, di-
vprced wife of George M. Cohan,
Grahame-White is now in the
flying corps.
royal
, Railroad men and their families rep
resent 7 per cent of our population.
FRENCR AVIATOR
II
Lieutenant Nugessar of Fly
ing Corps Is Working
for Record
BRITISH SAY GERMANS
LOSE AT BLOODY YPRES
French Battleship Lost D
cember 8 Torpedoed by
Germans
Taris, Dec. 21 Lieutenant Nungcsser
brol,sht down his twenty-first aeronlaar
tailed aerinl activity over most of the
j western front. ,
In one air brush ono of the Frem-k
aeroplanes collided with
chine it Was pursuing and both fell. Oa
v edncMiljir. ttia Dtuta...,nt :.i
tne statement said, tlu
French Rvintiiin iariiia,1i.n h,L,..l.n.i. i
sector, there was intermittent artillery
' firing, growing vjolent in the reirion of
Jim auoo.
BLOODY REPULSE AT YPRES
By William Philip Stmms,
(United Press staff correspondent.)
With the British Army iu the Field,
Dec. IS. (Delayed.) Once again the
notorious Ypre8 salient has earned a,
place on the war's scoreboard.
The German official wireless on De-
! important local victory scored there by
! German troops and said thev .tnrm...i
i.iuiDi-1 n Kuvu nn- impression ot an
. " " i'" " ' 1 """1 li:j niUlVlVII
, and occupied "British second liu
; tjenches eust of Cillebeke, tho carriso
I of which fled."
Hero's exactly what happened at 9:05
' .. a , . . .
i nigni on uecemuer J4:
I A ul . . 1. I , .
jt nnuiiK wi'i in " 11 aiiiicK was lanncned
against the British southern linuucb. of
tho salient. Expcctinir the attack, tho
-I British got the stormers under a deadlv-
fire, so that w htm th l!m.M i.if.
0,1 k. R..;.ii, ... ,
MAKES RECORD Of
TWENTY-ONE TODAY
1 ,n.,t.,i,r .?.! i.?i. m, , ', ..
lasted just 10 minutes. The enemy los'sea
were hidinifirl tn Kn umm... 41... n.::..i.
, n "... "h"Dii oiuu itua
valuable information waa obtained from
the bodies of the dead Germans.
K On the following day the Germans :
again attacked, this time at Hill B0,.:
ly wiped out this attack, not ono
nearby. A heavy barrage lire complete-
reaching the British lines. Again tho
' German los.es were regarded as severe,
H 1 : . .. .11.1 ..
effective,
Months
sc-no of s
ago the Ypres salient was the
some of the hottest fighting of
'- " - .111,111,11- ui
the warthe Germans hurling attack
attempt to crumblo their lino. Of lat
, dead man 's corner" has almost bee,
forgotten. "Peace valley" would b
moro appropriate, consideriii" the
fierceness of tho fighting at other part
of the lino.
Battloship Torpedoed.
Amsterdam, Dec. 21 The French bat-
.1.1.-. . .
lioHinp nuitren, reporteil us lost in a
1I....1.:.. (....i1... 1 , , .
1 " V: '.. 7 a" !M m. 9
'-"- iumi imuni'iit 01 iccemnr
-u inrm. ii n 1
of 71S men was lost.
German Planes Broneht Down.
T'nris nPf PI nm. (.sermon
planes were bromrht dm.n h .
tr.mt t,iu.-v nn..ut .V
u. . .v .u. omnriicn.
(Continued on page two.)
TO TIGHT OVER DANIELS
vi ashington, Dec. 21. The senate in-
Washington, Dec. 21. The senate in-
tcr8ta' commerce committee today r-
lttee today re
nominntinn of
r" """'"'V i""
" ,U'"I' JHOOre ,an,e'N r"r '? l'PO'm-
lllfint flu o niiimliiir nr tlid inl.i.uliilA
commerce commission.
J IHE WEATHER I
Oregon: Tr- :
night and Friday '.
rain west, raia or ,
snow east por-
tion; atroilt i
southerly wisrfu
interior, stronx
s o u t h rly gal ;
. along tha coast. '
SI
