Si 14
FINANCIAL EDITION
NIGHT
EXTRA
Cumins
teeantr
NIGHT
EXTRA
PKIOE ONJE OU5NTC
VOL. II. NO. 298
PIIIIiADELPHIA, MONDAY, AUGMTST 28, 101 G.
Cormronr, 1010, r the Pcbuo Ledoek Courm.
RUMANIA JOINS ENTENTE
GREECE LIKELY TO FOLLOW-
SLAVS T0SME BULGARS
Fifteenth Nation to Enter European
Conflict Yields to Pressure of Allies.
Country's Forces Already on
Hungarian Soil
600,000 New Troops to Be Thrown Against Teutons in
Balkans and Transjlvania Bulgars Between Two
Fires as Slavs Are Ready to Move.
Greece Wavers
BERLIN, Aug. 28. The Rumanians have invaded Hungary, it
was officially announced today.
BUCHAREST, Aug. 28. The Rumanian Government issued a
note today setting forth the reasons why war was declared on
Austria-Hungary on Sunday night. The causes arc enumerated as
follows:
First The Rumanian population is exposed to the risks of war
and invasion by the Austro-Hungarians;
Second Intervention of Rumania will shorten the war;
Third Rumania decided to cast her lot with the Allies because
they alone can guarantee her national unity.
VIENNA, Aug. 28. The Rumanian Minister to Austria-Hungary
left today. The minister called upon Baron Burian, the For
eign Minister, at a late hour last night, and presented a note from
his Government which stated that a state of war existed between
Rumania and Austria dating from 9 p. m. on August 27.
PARIS, Aug. 28.
It was officially announced in Bucharest today that Rumania has declared
war on Austria-Hungary.
The decision to enter tho war on the side of the Allies was reached after
a Crown Council held on Sunday.
A dispatch from Geneva states that Rumania has already begun the move
ment of troops preparatory to opening hostilities against tho Central Powers.
Military censorship has been established in Rumania.
Rumania is the fifteenth nation to enter the war. Previously there were ten
on the side of the Entente and four on the side of the Central Powers.
It is estimated that Rumania will be able to put 600,000 men in the field,
Y out in addition to this reinforcement of troops, the country's entrance into the
f jwar opens me way lor wie nuasuuis iu sbriitu ui uiu auavru-ucrraun ana jjui-
J garian troops in tho Balkans.
if . d n . - j" i. ...
nussia massea an enormous army upon me .Rumanian ironuer, waning
for the Rumanian declaration of war, which she was suro would bo forth
coming." Thesa troops can now drive into Serbia by way of Rumania, thus J
cutting off communication between Germany and Turkey.
Bulgaria, long fearing a hostile move by Rumania, massed three divisions,
the First of Sofia, the Sixth of Widin and the Fourth of Preslawa, upon the
Rumanian frontier. Following the Rumanian peace assurance several months
ago- and the withdrawal of a corresponding Rumanian force, many of the Bul
garian troops were withdrawn and sent into Greek Macedonia.
K Rumania borders Hungary and the invasion of Transylvanian plains across
me rangC3 Ol mountains 01 xne ironuer ia duiiuvcu to oucr no serious oosiacies
at this time as a result of the pressure being exerted against the Austro
Hungarians in Galicia and the Galician theater of war.
Except for the overwhelming forces arrayed against the Teutonic Allies
Bulgaria would probably welcome Rumania in the war, for Bulgaria ha3 borno
bitter enmity against this country ever since the second Balkan War, when
Rumania joined Serbia and Greece against Bulgaria. As a result of this
conflict Bulgaria had to give up territory to all three of her enemies.
General Averescu, former Minister of War, is to command the Rumanian
army, it is reported.
The final effort by Germany to prevent Rumania from joining the Allies
was made last Wednesday when the Gorman Minister at Bucharest presented
King Ferdinand with an autograph letter from tho Kaiser.
ITALY'S ACTION FACTOR.
What Rumania's Entrance
Into Great War Means
ADDITION of 600,000 troops to
nrmies of Entente Powers.
Combined attack of Russians and
Rumanians from north, and French,
British nnd Serbs from Salonica
against Teutons and Bulgarfe in
Balkans.
Probable withdrawal of Bulgarian
forces from Greece to halt invasion
of Serbia.
Invasion of Transylvania by Ru
manian forces.
Possible attempt of Bulgaria,
Hungary and Turkey to seek a sepa
rate peace.
Probable loss of German prestige
in Balkans,
Probable entrance of Greece into
war on side of Allies.
EUROPEAN DECLARATIONS
OF WAR
1014 AuMrln dcclnred wnr on
wnr
3 -Germany declared war
4 Germany declared wnr
4 1'ntlninl declared wnr
6 Austria declared war
7 Montenegro declared war
10 Franco declared war
12 Montenegro declared war
12 Ennland declared wor
on
on
on
on
on
on
on
on
on
July 28,
hernia.
Atisuit 1 Germany declared
Aumi.t
Irahrc
Anciiat
Ilelxlnm.
AllBllnt
German).
AllKIIKt
ItttnMn.
August
Ali.trln.
AtKimt
AtiMrla.
Aujciittt
Germany.
AllKlllt
ntiMria.
AtiKiiKt 23 Japan declared wnr on Ger
many, . Atrzust 23 Austria declared war on
Intmn.
memler li England deelnrrd war on
Tiirkej.
. Mar 23, 101B Italy declared wnr on
Auitrla.
Juno 3 San Marino declared war on
Austria.
Aucii.t 21 Ilnlr declared wnr on Tnrker,
October IB Merliln declared wnr on llul
earln, October lfi-lD Knxland, France, Italy nnd
lEttinln declared war on lJtilgnrlti
March 0, 1016 t, mutiny declared war on
l'ortucnl.
AiiKunt 27 Italy declared war on Ger
mans. Auriiftt 27 Itumnnln declared war on
Auittrlt.
WILSON URGES
COMMISSION IN
RAILWAYCRISIS
Latest Plan Would Put Dis
pute Up to Newlands
Board
SEES PRESIDENTS TODAY
HAILSTORMS PLAY HAVOC
WITH CROPS IN LANCASTER
Tobacco and Corn F.ields Laid Waste.
Thousands Lost
LANCASTER, Pa., Aug. 28. Many thou
sands of dollars' damago was dono to to
bacco crops In tho northern section ot this
county by hailstorms over Sunday, Jinny
crops will bo plowed under. Corn was
riddled, n
Tho hall area extended from Bachmans
vlllo to Union Squaro nnd from Mastcrson
vllle to Lawn, Lebanon County. The stones
were shoelcd up by bucketfuls. Among
tho heavy losers wero II. C. Shock, M. R
Hoffman, 11. P. Hoffman, Ellas Shelly nnd
A. II. Miller.
What Wilson Mau Ask
Congress in Rail Crisis
WASHINGTON, Aug. 28.
PRESIDENT WILSON is said to
be ready to appeal to Congress
for railroad legislation along tho fol
lowing lines:
First. Such ns might aid in tho
prevention of a strike should all his
own efforts fail.
Second. Providing an adequato
legal method for immediate settle
ment should the striko actually oc
cur. Third. Provisions for handling
tho situation, keeping the trains
moving and so forth, while the strike
is actually in force.
WASHINGTON, Aug. 28, President
Wilson this afternoon made arrange
ments to go to the Capitol at 4 p. m. to
confer with members of the steering
committee in the Senate. It was said
the purpose of the visit was to discuss
the developments in the strike situa
tion. WASHINGTON', Aug. 2S. Whllo Pres
ident "Wilson wlthholdi dotalts, It was
learned otllclally that what ho now wants
In tho railroad striko crisis Is that both
sides ngreo to submit nil questions In dls
puto to tho Nowlands commission, tho rail
roads, however, first accepting the basic
QUICK NEWS
WILSbK RECEIVES RAIL CHIEFS' "FINAL .PROPOSAL"
WASHINGTON, Aug. 28. Tho committee of eight railway
presidents, repiescnting the more than 00 executives with whom
I'resident Wilson has been negotiating, reached the While House at
53:30 v- with their "final pioposal" regarding Bcttlement of tho
dispute with tho brotherhood employes. The President already had
ireclved their proposal pilvately and they had been npprised of tho
plnn wlilrh he had worked out, modifying his orlrcinul niopotil
to llicm.
AUSTRIAN SEAPLANES SINK ITALIAN STEAMSHIPS
VIENNA, Aug. 28. Three Auotro-Hungarlim seaplanes liavo
bombarded Italian shteamshlps in the Ionian Sea, sinking ono of
tliemi the Admiralty announced today.
1 SAVED MY
GIRL," CRY OF
PARK SLAYER
Ellis D. Frigar Surrend
ers, Saying Boland
Threatened Fiancee
DRAMATIC SOLUTION
OP TRAGIC MYSTERY
WALTER DAMROSCH'S DAUGHTERS FOUND ON MOUNTAIN .
BAR HARBOR, Me., Aug. 25. -The thico daughters of Walter
Dnmrosch, director of tho Now York Philharmonic Orchestra, whose
failure to return alrmed their relatives and friends after they hnd left
on a mountain climbing trip, were found early today on tho top of
Green Mountain by a searching party. They said they had lost their
.way.
CONNAUGHT FARK RACING RESULTS '
First voce, purse $500, 2-year-olds, claiming foaled in Canada,
fJ 1-2 furlongs Silk Hustle, 107, Plckenc, S-l.OO, $3.10, ?2.50, won;
Bavarde, 105, It. McDerniott, $3.30, second; Princess Pay, 106, B.
Shilling, ?3.00, thhd. Time, 1.00 3-5.
Continued on race Trco, Column Three
WOULD-BE 'BROWNIES' IN INFANTILE PARALYSIS QUARANTINE
SHORE MOTORISTS HELD UP
Hundreds Refused Admission to At-
lantic City by Inspectors
ATLANTIC CITY, Aug 28. Hundreds
ot motoring parties with children were
held up on tho Meadow Boulevard lato
yesterday by health Inspectors, who de
manded production of nealth certificates
for tho juveniles. Whore they wero not
forthcoming tho parties wero refused ad
mission to tho city. Many returned to
Pleasantvllle, whero some of tho parties
saw doctors and procured certificates
Others waited there with the expectation
of attempting to run tho gauntlet of In
spectators on the boulevard bridges late
last night.
Asks $2500 for Alleged raise Arrest
Daniel Lelpcnlttl, of C .an, today be
gan suit for J2500 for a jd false arrest
against Herman Dloom. Lai week Lelpenittl
was arrested with Mr. and Mrs. Pletro l'as
auale on tho accusation of having aided In
tho dismantling of a hoUBo owned by Bloom
at 17 South Ninth street, Camden. Leipen
lttl showed the court that ho was only a
boarder In the house and had nothing to do
with damaging the property. Ho was dis
charged by Recorder Stackhouse.
Young Civil Engineer Con
fesses Firing Shots,
Fearing Attack
GLAD TO REVEAL SECRET
Engineer Fired to Defend
Himself and Fiancee
TLLIS D. FRIGAR, G616 Walnut
- street, civil engineer, shot and
killed Edward Boland in Fairmount
Park last Tuesday night to defend
himself and fiancee, Amanda Sykcs,
2711 North Park avenue, a nurse in
Jefferson Hospital, from gang.
Frigar read appeal of police to
murderer in Evening Lemhi, went
to Franklin Spencer Edmonds, his
attorney, for conference, and decided
to pivc himself up to police today.
Was returning with fiancee from
West Chester when automobile
stalled. Boland and companions
came from roadside and told him to
light his lamps.
"You're pinched," said Boland,
brandishing a beer bottle.-
There was a scuffle and Frigar
shot, saying ho thought safety of
his fiancee was endangered.
Hundreds of aspirants crowded City Hall corridors about the office of the Superintendent of Police, Room 225,
toaay, wnen iuu "Drownio- policemen, to serve
as guards on homes quarantined for infantile rmralvsis. were
sworn into service.
Italy's declaration of war on Germany
yesterday may have been a factor In tho
Rumanian declaration. It was generally
understood that Rumania planned to enter
the war with Italy In May. 19 IB, but the
severe defeat of the Russians at about that
time made it seem virtually certain that
declaration of war would be followed by
an Invasion of Rumania by Austro-German
armies.
It Is possible Rumania's decision may
exert a tremendous influence on Greece,
where the Venizelos pro-war party held
treat demonstrations yesterday.
Dispatches from Athens state that Bul
garia's continued advance Into Greek terri
tory and tha occupation of Greek forts at
Continued on raw 1'our. Column One
Weather Forecast
Based on a JTtw Blicoverv Bolar Phv'lcs
U TTtbUB L. ItOOItE and W. f, CAHOTHERS
FORECAST FOR PENNSYLVANIA
Sunday, September 3, to Wednesday, Sep.
tember 6 The week will open fair, or soon
raring up, and wlthmoderate temperatures
crowing warmer until midweek.
Thursday. September 7, to Saturday, the
Ith Showers Thursday and Friday will
Introduce cool movement This will clear
the weather and bring 15 degrees cooler
temperatures, with lowest ranging at 50
degrees.
General weather movements due;
A cool movement Is due to develop In
northwest United States September i and
will be an average movement, preceded by
showers in tha northern half of the coun
try and bringing fair and cooler weather
generally, with frosts in the Northwest.
. Another cool movement is dua Septem
ber 7, It will be a moderate movement,
without material Jocal effects fair or light
howery weather with moderately warm
temperatures prevailing during its passage.
GOVERNMENT FORECAST
For Philadilvhia and vicinity---Clearing
this afternoon: fair tonight
and Tuesday; cooler tonight; moderate
temperature Tuesday; light, northerly
ttrinds,
I.K.NOT1I OF DAY.
un rU.., 5S .m.,lMoon rUei... ..-..
Bun eu .... 6 39 p.ro.l41oon outbs. U J "
DELAWARE BIVER TIDE CHANGES.
CHESTNUT STREET.
&h water.. 1 a.ro.HIa wUr - IJS'g
Lew water 8.SQ tn-ILow water . SAtp-m.
TEMPEBATVBE AH EACH HOPS.
8 1 ol ftlTiT"tl VI'sI'lFi 41 5
HTTil TaTtof int 62 1 Si
WEST VIRGINIA WOMAN
SLAIN BY STRONG GRIP,
ELECTRIC LIGHT SHOWS
Thumb and Fingerprints
Neck of Victim of the
First Suffrage
Murder
on
TEMPERATURE'S DROP
CHANGES AUGUST DAY
INTO CHILLY OCTOBER
HUSBAND SUSPECTED
MAIIMNTONV W. Va., Aug. 28. Many
unusual features will figure In the trial
of Dr, Oliver A. Howard, held in connec
tion with the death of his wife, Frances
Robertson Howard. Suspicion directed
against Doctor Howard Is on the theory
that he hilled his wife following a quarrel
over woman suffrage. The first suffrage
murder, If this proves correct, will have
been brought to light by tha volunteer work"
of seera) Marllnton physicians.
ProsecutlntT Attorney Sharp, it developed
today, has evidence gathered voluntarily
by a committee of physicians who believed
there was ground for investigation follow.
Ing tha death of Mrs. Howard. The phy
sicians examined the body after It had been
turned over to an undertaker, They found
no marks to indicate a narcotic had been
used by the woman, as her husband had
buggested. Nor at first examination were
there any marks on her throat, though, as
the undertaker expressed it, "the head
seems to be Icose."
One of the physicians hit upon a novel
method of determining the cause of this.
The tiklu on tha 'neck was drawn back,
the adipose tissue distended and electrio
light reflected upon It. The result was tha
revealing of the print of a thumb and three
fingers as clearly as a picture on a screen.
Mrs, Howard's last suffrage activity and
her first speech for the cause was on the
day she died. Her husband and she had
disputed on the subject, with some bitter
netw, It la asserted, that morning. But Mrs.
Howard went to the meeting and read to tha
other women present President's Wilson let
ter to the Jane Jefferson Club, of Denver,
commenting briefly upon it.
Twenty minutes after her return home
her husband returned. Within another 10
or 15 minutes ha ran from tha building,
calling for another doctor. His wife was
unconscious from soma drug, he said, and
he asked for strychnine with which to re
vive her He has stuclc to tha story con
cerning a drug- In. his cell ha angrily de
UleJ ever having quarreled with his, wife
oa Uw iuJt ot euSrasw or anything1 tlsa.
Wraps and Overcoats Called
Into Requisition as Shivering
Succeeds Sweltering of
Last Week
FALL OF 34 DEGREES
Wraps and overcoats made their appear
ance on the streets today to meet the sud
den drop in temperature, which reached 61
degrees at 1 o'clock. Tha general appear
ance of tha persons crowding the 'main
thoroughfares, shrugging their shoulders on
account of the chilled atmosphere and but
toning their coats, resembled wljijjt, one
would expect during the month of October
Instead of August. Comparison of today's
temperature with that of last Monday shows
a difference of 34 degrees.
DusH fell over the city before noon today,
making temporary twilight out of a "blue
Monday morning.
Tha greatest obscurity came about 10
o'clock, when tha myriad of lights of office
buildings twinkled through the gray shadow
of the low hanging clouds, and the streets
In the business section lay deep and dark
under tho veil. For halt an hour semi-
darkness followed the densa clouds as they
swung lazily over the city at an altitude
of 1000 to 1500 feet.
In the north and northeast tha darkness
was Intense. For mora than an hour
Kensington had the appearance of a city by
night. Trolley cars and automobiles, with
lamps ablaze, felt their way slowly through
the unusual darkness and factories and
stores turned on their lights. Vision was
blurred beyond the distance of half a
square.
Chickens in the northern boundaries of
tha city were astonished at the spectacle
and followed their usual custom by wander
ing coopward.
The massing of clouds is a forerunner
o cooler weather, according to the weather
bureau) All such phenomena are caused by
a shift in wind currents. It was said.
VISITED HIS BROTHER,
REMAINED FIVE DAYS,
DAVIS SAYS OF WIFE
Called When Mrs. Malcolm
Davis Was Away, is Charge;
"I Should Worry," Her
Answer to Question
FILES $100,000 SUIT
Howard U Davis, the wealthy New
Egypt, N. J., poultryman, who Is suing his
brother Malcolm, of this city, for 1100,000,
charging him with having alienated his
wife's affections, today told tha details of
tho family squabble. He said his wife had
spent five days at Malcolm's house, 118
Mount Airy avenue, while the latter's wife
was away.
"What opinion would you form from
that?" ha Bald.
Howard Davis, who alleged he was
wronged, said he first learned of his wife's
meetings with his younger brother about
two years ago, when he Intercepted a tele
gram from Malcolm's attorney arranging
for a meeting between Malcolm and Mrs.
Davis in New York. Ho asked his wife
about it, and says she replied:
"I should worry."
The pair met, he says. In .Spring Iake,
N. J., In Philadelphia, and New York.
Asked if he was going to suefor divorce
on statuory grounds he said he hadn't
quite made up his mind. They were after
him, he said, to make an untrue 1'con
fess'lon." so that she could get tha divorce.
Ha says bis mothri who is the widow
of tha late Edward T. Davis, wealthy
property owner, has never learned the
real truth of his trouble with his brother.
"They are keeping it from her," said
Howard I Davis.
"They have persuaded her to change her
will, which she made in accordance with our
father's last request He left everything
to my mother with tha understanding that
she was immediately to make a will dlvtd-
Csatlaued oa Psf e Two. Celiuua Twt
SENSATIONAL DROP IN WHEAT IN CHICAGO PIT
CHICAGO, Aug, 28. A sensational drop of 7 to 8 cents In wheat prices on
the local jrrain market today threw pit traders into n frenzy. News that Rumania
had declared wnr on Austria nnd less favorable news In regard to the striko situa
tion were said by traders to bo responsible. At noon Soptember was down 8 cents
over the close Saturday. December was down 8 cents, while May was down 7,
CEMENT REPLACES TILE IN RITTENHOUSE SQUARE BASIN
Tho Blazed tile background of the fountain basin In Rlttenhouse Square has
been removed nnd replaced by one of plain cement. Who did it no one seems to
know, and the residents of Rlttenhouso Square are worried about .it, for tho tile
work was done by Paul Cret, the French nrtlst, and was regarded as quite a
work of art. '
BILL TO "SPEED UP" U. S. SUPREME COURT
WASHINGTON, Aug. L'S. Tha Senate today passed a bill to convene tho Supreme
Court of the United States on the first Monday in October Instead of the second
Monday. The measure also makes changes in Supreme Court procedure to enable
it to speed up.
EX-GOVERNOR PENNYPACKER BETTER, SAYS PHYSICIAN
Former Governor Samuel W. Pennypacker, who has been very ill at Schwenki
vllle, Pa., on the Perklomen, is reported much improved today by his physician.
Dr. II. Croskey Allen. He spent a very good night.
WATERPROOF GARMENT WORKERS STRIKE
NEW YORK, Auff. 28. Between 5000 and C00O members of the waterproof gar
ment workers went on strike today for an eight-hour day and higher wages. A
peaceful settlement of the troubles is expected.
REDUCTION IN PRICE OF TEXAS CRUDE OIL
OIL CITY, Pa., Aug. 28. Corslcana, Wght, Henrietta, Strawn and Moron grades
of Texas crude oil have been reduced 5 cents a barrel, following the reduction in
Oklahoma.
TEN-YEAR-OLD COUNT MAY BE KING OF POLAND
LONDON, Aug. 28. A Berne dispatch to the Dally News says the delay in the
proclamation of autonomy in Poland by the German and Austro-Hungarlan sov
ereigns is due to tho difficulty of selecting a suitable king-. The correspondent adds
that German and Austrian diplomats visited Count Stephen Tarnowski recently, with
a view to offering him the Polish throne. The young C?unt to only JO, years old,
but his family has resided In Klelce, near Warsaw.for more than 1000 years.
1
TROLLEYS CRASH AT 19TH ST. AND COLUMBIA AVE.
One hundred or more passengers were shaken up this morning when a south
bound Nineteenth street car and, a westbound Columbia avenue car crashed to
gether. "Windows in both cars were, broken, but no one was injured. According to
tho police, the accident was caused by misunderstanding of signals oa the part; of
tho motorrosa ot both cars.
Ellis D. Frigar, civil engineer, of 6616
Walnut street, Bhot and killed Edward
Boland In Hairpin Turn on Nel'll drive,
Fairmount Park, last Tuesday night, to de
fend his flairsce. Miss Amanda Sykes, a
nurse in Jefferson Hospital, from Boland
and his flvo companions. '
Frigar thought about his "crime" for a
week, ho told the police today, and. finally
deciding that ho was In the right, resolved
to glvo himself up and make the best of It.
Ho went wlthi his attorney, Franklin
Spencer Edmonds, to the detective bureat)
and asked to spealt with Captain Tata. His
attorney had told him that It was the thing
to do ; that the community wanted to know
tho truth after having guessed for n week
at the probable provocation tha man had
who shot Boland.
Frigar said ho had read the appeal ot
the police published in the Evening
LEDpcn. He said ho knew that if he did
not give himself up tha true story of the
murder never would bo learned; that ha
knew ha could go the remainder of hts Ufa
feeling that ho had committed murder yrith
the right as his defense; that no one but
his fianceo would ever know he had done
the shooting.
UROED HIM TO TELL ALL.
Yet his fiancee wanted him to reveal the
whole thing, he said. She did not warit htm
to have It on his conscience. And It wor
ried her. She-begged him to give himself
up. Ha told her that the publicity might
ruin her reputation. She said she did not
care that the public would Believe that he
was In tha right
So- last night a telephone call was re
ceived by Captain of Detectives Tate. It
was Attorney Edmonds. Tha lawyer said;
"I have n client who killed that man in
Fairmount Park."
The attorney was reassured and today
Edmonds, with his client, Frigar, went to
the Detective Bureau.
There Frigar told his story. He was
pale and worn from his week's worry. Ha
was glad to tell the secret that only ha
and his sweetheart knew, Not even his
brothers nor his father had an Inkling- as
they read tha stories of tha murder nnd
guessed who had committed It
RETUnNED FROM MEXICO.
Frigar returned two weeks ago from
Mexico to visit his fiancee. He had been
for many months inspecting oil wells la
Mexico. He was an engineer employed by
an oil company and after hla trip through
the mountainous regions of Mexico, torn by
revolution1,, he reached Galveston. Tex., and
wrote to Miss Sykes that he was coming
home to see her.
After his arrival they had been together
on many motor trips on country roads.
Last Tuesday they went to West Chester,
Frigar told the police. Tbey were returning
after a long ride through the country.
They were passing through Nelli' drive and
had reached Hairpin Turn, the famous spot
that most lovers seek when motoring .
through the park. '
NOTED HOLD-UP PLACE.
Hairpin Turn is also a favorite place for
bands of young men who prey upon couples
who seek its seclusion. They hold them
Continued ea Pace Two. Column Out
"The Wings of the
Morning"
Bu LOUIS TRACY
the greatest serial story to
appear in the
BEGINS SATURDAY
In order not to miss, any install
meet of this masterpiece of fiction,
do not fatt to plica your order with
your newsdealer uw. Because, of th
no-return rule that goes Into ftt
Friday ha will not order any Jwowt
copies, than have, actually been s?ufcss
(or by fais customers.
