HE paper that is read in th HE readers of The Washington
morning. while the mind is T HERAL far outnumber the
fresh and clea, cames the daily patronage ever before
messages that are remembered long- accorded a newspaper in the Na
est, whether they are news or adver- tional Capital - circulation increases
tising messages. - -- - for 1916 have broken al local records.
NO. 3602. WEATHER-FAI. WASHINGTON, D. C., MONDAY, AUGUST 28, 1916. ONE CENT.
WILSON'S PLAN
TO AVERT STRIKE
FACESFAILURI
Most Railroad Men Go Hom,
With Sealed Instructions
in Case of Walk-Out.
President Wilson's efforts to brin
about peace between the railroads ar
their employes seemed to be confronte
with failure at a late hour last night.
Early in the day the 610 representativ
of the four brotherhoods decided to lea'
further negotiations in Washington to
special committee of twenty-four. Tt
remainder of the men were ordered I
returne to their home districts. Each cat
ried with him final instructions in evei
of a strike.
This in Itself was convincing that
crisis was imminent and the gravity <
the situation was further emphasize
when late last night President Samu<
Rea. of the Pennsylvania. issued
statement that was construed as meaj
ing the railroad managers deemed
strike Inevitable.
President Wilson, alarmed over ti
failure of his efforts, summoned Chat
man Howlands. of the Senate Interstal
commerce Committee, and Secretary <
the Interior Iane to the Whit. Hous
and renewed his request for legislatic
he desires Passed at this session of Col
gress.
It 'can be stated authoritatively that th
following measures were ransidered:
1-The passage of a bill establishing tl
eight-hour day as a basis for hours
labor on railroads.
'-An amendment to the Instertal
Commerce Act authorizing the Interstal
Commerce Commission to take the que
tion of wages into consideration i
adjusting rates.
Senator Newlands holds that the con
mission already has that authority. Th
existing commission has ruled to the cor
trary.
3-An amendment to the Mediation Ar
making combinations to bring abot
strikes or lock-outs affecting interstat
commerce unlawful until a general corr
raission, to be provided for in the bill, ha
been investigated and reported on th
merits of the dispute. This act to b
CONTTED fN PAGE Two.
FRENCH TAKE TRENGH
WITH BURNING LIQUII
Immense Numbers Engaged on Somm
and Verdun Fronts.
- (By the Internatienal News ierviei
London. August 27--Following hea
fighting during the greater part of ti
night there was little but artillery a,
tivity on the Somme frent today. Ti
British in a strong attack yesterday ever
ing, gained a further 200 yards of tren<
north of Bozentin- Le-Petit, capturing
machine gun The French attack w
preceded by a furitous bombardment ar
was carried out under cover of burnir
liquid
A French oficial ,'atem-rt says:
"After violent preparation by the
bomb throwers the fbrmans last even:r
attempted t cross tne 'anal n-ar He
des. and penetrate our lines uur h
rier and machine gun fire repulsed thei
with heavy losses."
The immense number of troops er
gaged on the western fr'ni is indicat,
by an estimate from 3erlin whi h set
the allied effectives of the Verdun fror
between February 21. the opening date
the German -fensive and Ju v
"0.000 and on the Somme frort sinc
July last, 1 Of the latter 23 div
sons or about 460A00 men were Frene
and 37 divisions or 740.000 men Britkeh.
MONKEYS TUN HIGHBROWS.
Refuse Peanuts from Colored Mla
and Start Trouble.
Baltimore. Aug. 27 -But fbr the ' hig
browish' incinations of several rru
Hill Park monkeys this morning. Har
Bestic and Joseph Washington (ce
oredi might have esca;ed a week's co
finement in jail.
Harry and Joseph bought two bags
peanuts this morning in the park a:
offered them to two monkeys. After
couple of "sniff-sniffs" the animals cor
pletely Ignored the proffered eatabl
and climbed to a higher point in th
cage.
The colored men grew angry and ne
tried to coax the monkeys to them I
opening a flask of whisky. The co
tents of the bottle vanished. however, b
fore the animals could descend. The m4
cursed the monkeys; Patrolman We
arrived and placed them under ar-re
Both were fined V 45, each by Justi
Schroeder in the Northern Police Coul
VERY KEAN, HOWARD; VERY!
Borrows Dollar from Wife, cell
brates and Abuses Her.
Baltimore. Aug. 7.-In the opinion
0001 Justice Packard. at the Central Pollc
Court. Howard Sheehan. 39 years old.
one of the meanest men in the worl
Sheehan was arraigned on the chat-ge
disturbing the peace. The charge was pri
ferred by his wife, Mrs. Rose Sheeha
According to the testImony, Sheehan ho
rowed 11.00 from his wife last nigj
and proceeded to celebrate.
"Don't you feel rather mean this mnori
ingT' the magistrate asked. addressir
Sheehan. "I have no respect for a mi
who borrows money from his wife, pri
ceeds to get drunk and then fusses wil
his wife, I as going to send you awa:
Twenty-five dollars and costs."
ITRT.E PRICES TO ADVANCE.
Paper Cost and Lack of Gterms
Imports Blamed.
Boston. Aug. 27.-.The Americi
Bible SocIety announced today that tl
price of Bibles was likely to be ad
vanced at once. The European wa
which has increased the cost of pape
and other raw material, was given
the cause.
The stock of Bibles and books prin
.d in foreign languages, previous:
purchased from Germany. Is bel
rapIdly exhausted, it was stated, at
the society Is unable to fill all ordel
reeiede
Telegraph Tips [
Atlantic City, Aug. 27.-A movement to
abolish cabarets in cafes has been insti
tuted by the Atlantic City Retail Liquor
Dealer.' Association, which claims that
the shows injure busines by forcing pro
prietors to boost prices for refreshments
1 to excessive rate. A resolution adopted
by the association urging the abolition
will be presented to the city commission
at its next meeting.
Spring Lake, N. J., Aug. 27.-Cardinal
Gihbons, of Baltimore. and Bishop O'Con
nell, of Richmond. who are here as guests
of Papal Marquis and Mrs. Martin Ma
loney. have attended several social func
tions. This noon they were the guests at
Iluncheon of Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Hell
g mer, of Philadelphia. at "Seawood."
d Winsted. Conn., Aug. 27.-Paul Lorrain
d and his sister. Mrs. Edward McCarty, of
Canaan, went to Sandisfield. Mass., this
week and recalled scenes of their child
hood after an absence of fifty-eight years.
e They found the old homestead standing
a but given over to the storage of tools
e'and grain. They explored the attic and
the cellar and unearthed the remains of
an old hand cheese press which was used
by their father and grandfather.
Buenos Aires. Aug. 27.-Lieut. Sir
a Ernest H. Shackleton. the Antarctic ex
plorer, left Punta Arenas, Chile, today,
d on the ship Yelcho on a third attempt to
rescue members of his expedition ma
a rooned on Elephant Island.
a New York. Aug. 27-Charles H.
Lichtenstein, an optician, rode to the
Police Court in an expensive auto
mobile, went into the court, was found
guilty of disorderly conduct for
"mashing" the night before, gave $500
n bond to keep the peace for six months
and rode away agati.
e (rest Falls. Mon.. Aug 27.-In a
heavy hail and windstorm which swept
e Cascade County Harry Lynn. of Mis
,f soula. was badly injured when a sud
den gust lifted his farm wagon twenty
e feet in the air and hurled it over a
e fence.
n Havana, Aug. 27.-As a consequence
Iof the receipt of information that
, cholera exists in Vera Cruz, a quaran
e tine has been declared in Cuban ports.
- This carries with it the detention for
five days of persons from the Mexican
t port.
t -
e Durham. N. C , Aug. 27 -The pub
. lishers of the Durham Sun. an after
a noon newspaper. have announced to
e day that becauce of the scarcity of
e news print paper their Saturday edi
tion would be discontinued Septem
ber 2.
Plattsburg. N. T., Aug. 2.-Mrs. S.
Judelson. wife of the Rev. S Judelson.
Jewish chaplain of Clinton prison.
Dannemora, Is dead at Physicians'
Hospital this city. Besides her hus
band. she leaves eight children.
Toledo. Ohjo, Aug. ;7.--Constable
Chauncey Bell went to sleep on his
e job. When he awoke he was minus
$13.85 in cash and his revolver. Bell
was employed to watch a carnival be
ing held on Central avenue.
Rock Island. Ill.. Aug 27.-The small
ke arms plant of the Rock Island Arsenal
with a capacity of 25n rifles a day, is
e *o be reopened immediately, after be
- ing closed two years. Orders to this
b effect were received today from Wash
inton. Six hundred mechanics will
b- employed.
d -
Nyack, N. Y., Aug 27. - Aaron
W. Vankueren. for fifty years con
nected in an editorial capacity with
, the Nyack Evening Journal, is dead
' today following a stroke of paralysis.
Mr. Vankueren was 70 years old, and
- for years was the Rockland corre
n spondent of the Associated Press.
d Topeka. Kan.. Aug. "--it cost A. W
fFarmer) Smith. a Republican, just 28
a; cert to be nominated 'or Presidential
It e'ector. That is probably the record in
Kansas poltics "With twelve men run
tning for ten places.' said Farmer Smith.
e ''I felt that I should do something to
stir up interest in my own candidacy.
h So i wrote fourteen letters to personal
friends over the State. The only money
was for the postage stamps.
Pottaville, Pa.. Aug 7.-The Supreme
Court in an opinion approved the award
of $3..;r1i to Joseph Kinrkosky for injuries
received by the kick of a mule. The
i- Kaska William Supply Company was the
id 'defendant and while Klorkosky, a boy.
-y was not employed by them. Judge Koch
I- ruled that it was the duty of the com
I- pany to keep boys away from their mules.
The boy was permanently Injured, his
rf tceth being knocked out and his jaw
i fractured.
5- Elwood. Ind., Aug. 27--Mrs. W. L. Ab
!a bott and Mrs. L. M. Cross were riding in
ir the country in a closed automobile when
a bumblebee got inside. In their efforts
Xt to drive the bee out Mrs. Abbott lost con
iy trol of the machine and the car went
n-i into a ditch and was upset. The women
e- escaped with a few bruises.
,n
I.,
i New York, Aug. 27-A 3-weel -old
t girl baby, with no marks of identification,
e was abandoned in St. Anthony's Roman
Catholic Church, No. 155 Sullivan street.
yesterday. Angelina Gumaci, of No. 174
Thompson street. found the infant in a
pew clad in white. She carried it to the
Macdougal street station and it was re
moved to Bellevue.
if Copenhagen, Aug. 27 -Two Zeppelins.
accompanied by two cruisers and four
torpedo boats passed Bergen today. It
was the first time during the war the
Zeppelins have been seen patrolling so
ffar north.
SLondon, Aug. 2---More than 6,000 trades
tunionists in an open meeting in Hyde
Park today protested against the high
cost of living. Speeches were made de
'manding a general increase in wages.
g
Berlin. Aug. 27-Dr. IKarl Liebktnecht,
h the Socialist leader, today entered an ap
peal from the term of imprisonment im
'posed on him laet Wednesday. when he
was sentenced to four years and one
month and expulsion from the army, for
his appeal against a previous sentence of
thirty months'for war treason.
u The Socialist -leader also was deprived
in the latest sentence of his civil rights
for cix years.
Le New York, Aug. 27.-Henry Ford has
-applied to the Supreme Court for the
r. County of New York for an order to re
r move the suit brought against him by
a5 the Vitagraph Company of America to
the District Court of the United States
Ifor the Southern District of New Pork.
y Mr. Ford is being sued by the film com
gpany for $1,000,000 on a charge of having
.d libeled a motion picture called "The Bat
tieCry of Peace' in an advertseapt
TWO DIE WHEN
CANOE CAPSIZES
Crowds See Boys Perish Near
Aqueduct Bridge.
A thunderstorm, accompanied by a
wind which at times nearly reached the
velocity of a cyclone, overturned a ca
noe in the Potomac, almost under the
Aqueduct Bridge, yesterday afternoon.
c.using the death of Ralph W. Dowden.
"A years old, 1010 Park road northwest.
and Arthur R. Cowaill. 19 years of age.
144 Harvard street northwest. The young
men were in the middle of the river be
low Aqueduct Bridge when the force of
the wind overturned their canoe, and in
view of hundreds of persons occupying
positions on the shore and in other crafts
the two went to their deaths.
Another canoe, containing two young
men who refused to give their names to
the police. was turned over at about the
same place. The occupants were good
swimmers and swam ashore.
According to the police, Dowden and
Cowsill left Dempsey's boat house yes
terday morning and joined the hundreds
who had availed themselves of clear
skies, for a paddle up the river. They
had spent the better part of the day on
the Virginia shore and were returning
to their wharf when the storm broke.
The heavy black cloud which gathered
in the west in the afternoon gave little
sign of the impending wind. Canoes and
ther craft however, went scurrying to
the shore. The young men were paddling
at full strength with the evident intention
of reaching their boat house before the
storm overtook them. When in front
of the Reynolds' boathouse the wind
broke in great fury.
Policeman F. S. Straser. of the Seventh
precinct station. who has been stationed
at Reynolds' boathouse by Maj. Pullman,
to watch over the river enthusiasts, said
that he had been keeping watch on the
men, and that when the first violent blast
of wind struck the frail carge, the little
craft was lifted completely from the
water. It fell. he said. overturned.
Dowden and Cowsill came up and fought
bravely, finally reaching the overturned
boat. They both grasped the keel and
held on
Straser at once realized the situation.
and jumped into a boat which he kept
on the s-hore-a row boat with a small
nower motor. When about one hundred
feet from shore the motor went dead,
and he was left helpless. The wind car.
CON'INUED ON PAGE TWO.
AUSTRIAN HEAVY GUNS
SHELLTRENTINO FRONi
Field Artillery and Mortars Bombard
Italian Positions.
(By the Internatioasl News Service.)
Rome. Aug. "I-The Austrians are dis
playing renewed activity on the Trentinc
front, the scene of their late drive, ac
rording to the offIcial statement issued
today by the war oftile. Further Italian
gains in the upper Plays region are re
corded. The Austrian artillery has beer
active on the Isonzo front. The statement
says:
"On the Trentino front, the enemy
showed considerable activity with hi
artillery and trench mortars. There was
much musketry fire also, but no Infantry
attacks developed. Our artillery replied
effectively, and damaged the enemy's de
lenses on the northern slopes of Monte
Cimone.
"At the head of the Digon River, iT
the upper Plava Valley (Carnic Alps), we
extended our occupation of positions or
Clina Vallone.
"Tn the Gorizia area and on Corso,
hostile artillery was directed actively
against the Isonzo bridges and the
Vallone positions. A few shells fell or
Gorizia and Homanz."
BOY WORKS TILL HE FAIMNTS.
Pushes 500-Pound Load for 10 Cents
a Day.
New York. Aug. 27.-Harry Bindler, o0
the electrical supply house of Lipsky A
Bindler, Brooklyn. was arrested yester
day on the charge of endangering the
health of 13-year-old Herman Levy, wh<
worked for him. Bindler, the boy says
ordered him Friday afternoon to pust
a cart containing metals weighing 50
pounds two' miles.
The boy. whose family arrived tw<
weeks ago from England and is needv
says he got 10 cents a day for his labor
He did not complain when ordered t<
push the heavy load, but started. H1
got to Ralph avenue and Halsey street
whither he had wandered off his course
when he fainted. Policeman Schulti
called medical help.
"I feel like lying here forever," the
boy said when revived.
Bindler. in Gates Avenue Court, wai
paroled for a hearinng next Tuesday
He pleaded not guilty.
CAN'T GO TO SUNDAY SCHOOL
Children All Dreineed Up When Fa
ralysis Order Comea.
Baltimore. Aug. 27.-All dressed up and
nowhere to go-that was the plight of
the children of Baltimore today. Little
Tom, Dick and Harry, as well as Mary,
Jane and Sue could not go to Sunda'
school because, as a precaution agsainst
the spread of infantile paralysis. the
health department has ordered all schools
closed. Boo. hoo! Sad tidings.
It may be that many little boys jusi
shouted with glee or more discreetly
laughed up their sleeves when they found
this out, but the fact is that the Sun
day schools now with few exceptions arn
conducted in such a way as to bea
source of enjoyrnent to the children, and
being kept away is something of a hard
ship.
HIS AFFECTION SO00N C00LS.
Harper Pledges Ptriendship, The.
Wallops Brother-in-Law.
Baltimore. Aug. 27.-Less than an hour
after professing undying friendship foi
his brother-in-law, Harry Harper floored
him with a chair when the brother-in
law, Richard C. Wright. quizzed hIm
about an alleged derogatory remark Har
per made about Wright's wife.
Two friends came to Wright's assist'
ance and fearing bodily harm Harper
barricaded himself in his home, and yell'
ed for the poliee. Patrolmen Johnson
and Bolt responded and arrested the
"Vera Cruz" Money
Cenverted to Pulp
heelal to The Wekingtos Berald
Mexico City. Aug. 27.-The de
struction of the so-called Vers
Crus Issue of Mexican currency
and the issuance of the new paper
money known as "Infalsificables"
have made the Government print
ing office one of the busiest spots
in Mexico. The Vera Cruz bills.
over $50,000,000 worth of which have
been destroyed, are cut into strips
In a hydraulic press, transformed
into pulp and made into card
board and pasteboard. of which
there is great scarcity.
ELEVEN RACING CARS
IN SMASH ON TRACI
Two Die and Seven Injured in Auto
mobile Wreck.
(By the International News service.
Kalamazoo. Mich. Aug. 27.-Jack Pea
cock, of Brooklyn, and Marion Arnold, o
Chicago. were killed. and seven othe
drivers and mechanics were injured
when eleven racing care piled into i
heap at the quarter mile turn of th<
Recreation park mile track here thi
afternoon on the getaway of the thir
annual auto derby in this citv
The dead are: Marion Arnold. Chicago
mechanician for Andy Burt in Stutz car
decapitated.
Jack Peacock. Brooklyn. driver of Sui
Beam '12"; skull, hips and thigh frac
tured; died Immediately after reac-hin
hospital.
Probably fatally injured: F. E. Mar
cuette. Kalamazoo, Peacock's mechani
ictan, head badly crushed, left leg brok
en below knee in three places.
Al W. Downs. Kalamazoo. driver
Buick. head cut.
Injured but will recover Andy Burt
Chicago, driver of Stutz. badly Injure'
Otto Henning. Chicago, driver o
Ogren. injured by blow above groin.
Jimmie Alexander, Sious City. mechani
cian for Bi t, ('handler, cut and bruised
Thomas Ball. Coldwater. driver of Chal
mers, back hurt.
Guy L. Bailey. Coldwater, Mich , me
chanlcian for Ball. face cut and bac
hurt.
The overturning of the Sun Beam 'Il
driven by Peacock, as it rounded th
first turn of the second mile caused th,
accident.
Peacock's car struck the fenc.
swerving lengthwise across the trac
and tipped over on its side.
Andy Burt's Stutz was the first t
strike the wrecked Sun Beam, the
nine other cars piled one after an
other in the smoking death heap. Fou
of the cars were far enough in th
rear to avoid smashing into the wreck
age.
DISTRICT PARALYSIS
QUARANTINE BEGIN!
Scourge Well Under Control. But N,
Chances Taken.
Enforcement of the new regulations ro
quiring a quarantine for all sufferers fror
infantile paralysis will begin today. unde
the direction of Chief Health Office
Woodward.
Although no new cases were roporte
yesterday. and the four deaths and te
cases under observation constitute th
extent of the epidemic in the District. th
regulations will be just as strictly en
forced as though the prevalence of th
disease was more serious.
In the opinion of the health experts. th
number of casci will continue to decreas
as coo;er weather comes, but Dr. Ala
J. MrLaughlin and other physicians. wh
have made an exhaustive study of th
disease. declarc that unless every know
preventIve is taken within the next si
months, the summer of 1917 will witnes
a spread of the epidemic that will b
much graver than the present situation
School department officials said la!
night that there was nothing in th
piesent outbreak to warrant a dela
in the opening of the public schooli
Unless the number of new cases take
a decided advance, which is unexpect
ed, the schools will open as schedule(
PASTOR'S MISSIVES
BASIS OF LOVE SUI
Miss Lucille Cavanaugh Claims t
Have Hundreds.
(By the Internationsl News Service,
Chicago, Aug. 27-Life doesn't look a
dreary to Miss Lucile Covington. She I
certain in her own mind that ehe is goin
to collect 1100.000 from Rev. John Wesle
Hill, whom she is suing for breachc
*promise and she says she has been -of
fered 82,000 a week to tell the Hill stor
in v'audeville.
"Has he that much money. S100,00?
~she was asked.
"Well, if he hasn't he knows whereh
can get it. His friends are all big met
Col. Roosevelt gave hIm 81.i00 for a wirg
dow in his church at the Metropolita
Tabernacle."
"After the suit was first started Re'
Hill offered me $50,000 to settle it. But h
and his attorneys wanted moe to sig
papers.
"Whcn I first met him live years ag'
he said he had three young children wht
needed my care and love-a boy and tw
girls. He cried when he told me, H
told me he loved me and wanted me I
'marry him, and be his children's mothei
"Later he saId 'you can't stay in thi
hotel, because my w~ife cornea here
Ioften.'
'I left him then. He knows he iha
not heern faIr or square with me.''
"The reason I withdrew the New Yor:
5uit. is t . Mr. H 1i is on Eadte, n mm
I and I expect a fairer deal in Illinois.
"He didn't give me dresses and hat
as the paper said. He gave me America
Be'auty roses by the dozens, and cand
adrnktand I have a nne collectio:
et lve ettre-undedsof them.'
HUGHES RESTING
HIGH IN ROCKIES
Candidate Recuperates Before
Resuming Campaign Trip.
(By the International News 8ervies.9
Estes Park. Colo., Aug. 27.-More than
8,000 feet in the air, in the heart of the
Rockies. and buried away 50 miles from
civilization with only a single telephone
wire uniting him with the outer world,
Charles E. Hughes today threw aside the
cares of his presidential campaign and
embarked upon four days of rest.
Mr. Hughes brought with him here the
pleasant memory of yesterday's demon
stration in his honor in Denver. which in
numbers and enthusiasm set the high
water mark for the three weeks of his
tour ending with last nights big meeting
In the Auditorium. At no time since he
left New York has the candidate been
better mceived and on no occasion has
he delivered a more mark-hitting peech.
It was substantially the same speech he
has been delivering all through the far
west. But last night he put the ' punch
in it.
Summing up the situation as it is pre
seit- in the light of the tour to the
coast, one may say that with the excep
Siwn of California the Progressives to the
extent of about dighty per cent are going
to vote for Hughes.
Ordinarily all that the Republican can
didate would have to do would be to poll
the normal strength of his party. But
thIs year the conditions are peculiar. In
the thirteen States so far visited a con
dition of unparalleled prosperity ex.
Its. Coupled with this is a strong
pacilist sentiment and as women
. voters are closely allied to the peace
propaganda, and most rf the States so
11far visited have extended the suffrage
- to women, the latter element will play a
prominent part in deelding the issue.
The union of the two elements therefore
seems to divide tie contenaing parties so
- evenly that the nation ic likely to wit.
nees such a close contest as that which
elected Cleveland over Blaine in 1'. or
f which elected Harrison over Cleveland in
Mr. Hughes. of course. is contending
that the prosperity of the nation is due
r to the war and is using this argument
as the driving power bark of his demar d
for a restoration of the lIrotective tariff.
This and his indictment of the Mexican
policy of the Wileon administration. with
which he couples an argument for pre
-arednees. and his campair. fr econony
and efficiency, are the chief issues upcn
w hich he has made his appeal to the
- St.
BULGARSTAKEKAVALLA,
DRAWING ALLIES' FIRE,
r
P British Forces Advance Toward Cap
tured Town.
I By the Internationsl News Serslee.V
London. Aug. z.-Bulgarian forces
have seized the Greek port of Kavalla on
the Aegean Sea and all but one of its de
fending forte. An official communica
tion from Saloniki announces that they
already have been brought under fire of
allied warships, two monitors and a
British cruiser taking part in the hom-1
i'ardment.
Extending their seizures along the
roast the Bulgars. acco-dlinc to a report
from Sotia, are closing in on Orfano. ex
treme tip of the allied right wing. Brit
-ih advanced forcrs have been pressed
in toward the town and the tnraders
have resA hed the Iakovitza-Pedehali
r Arksali-Nlontechlii line
r The Eulgarian advance in the val
ley of the Struma al'o continues. ac
cording to an official statement from
Berlin. and the invaders are nearing
I the mouth of the river at the gulf of
Orfano
A dispatch from Athens announe-s
the appointment of Gei Constantine
- Moschopoulos. commander of the
p Greek garrion of Saloniki. as tempo
rary chief of staff He takes the place
of Gen. Gcousmnis. it is generally
believed that Morchopoilos will be
e given the post permanently. The new
i leader of the Greek army is an avow
ed pro-entente. and is currently be
e lieved to be most favorably inclined
toward former Premier Venizelos and
c his d,.rtrines.
GERMAN PRISONERS IN U. S.
t
.iEscape from Canadian ~amp and
y Crosa Border.
Watertown. N. Y.. Aug. '.-Two Ger-1
S man prisners who escaped from the:
Canadian internment prison. Fort Henr.
Kingston, Ont., have reached Clayton.
N. Y. Th men are Wiley Prubachei, for
merly a paper mill engineer at Rimouski.
., and Erwin John. a nietchant from
iraryfl. The men made their escape last
U ednesday.
They were allowed to work in a gar
den at Fort Henry. and for months hai
duc a hole under a flower bed in the
igarden. They secreted themselves in
this hole Wednesday afternoon That
niznt they came out. and, after hiding
along the shore of the St. Lawrence for
a day, they obtained a boat ard escaped
across the river to Clayton.
F IN COURT IN BATH TOGS.
i Lsa yer Appears to Auk for Post.
piouement of Bankruptcy case.
-Ashury Park. Aug. 27.-The unusual
y pct1l of a lawyer appearing in a
bathing suit in court on legal business
was witnessed at Beliar this after
noon when Tobias A. Keppler, who
e has offices in the Woolworth Building.
New York. strode Into the offices of
-: Referee in Bankruptcy Charles H.
Butcher.
Keppler entered a plea that the
.baiikruptcy hearing of John Appte
a gate, a fish dealer in the Fulton Mar
ket. New York. be postponed. His re
quest was granted. and he sped away
.to resume his interrupted ocean bath.
TIMES SUICIDE TO VISIT.
* Clerk Ends Life Six Hoar. Before
s Damghter Arrive.
* Hasleton, Pa.. Aug. 27.-Shooting him
self through the temple and heart at the
5 cigar store of Councilman Arthur Stauf
fenberg, West Hiazleton, where he was
employed, James Brown, aged 46. ended
-his life six hours before the arrival of
his . daug~hter. Jane. who camne from
1.Philadelphia tonight to visit him.
F Yesterday Brown, who had been ill
gave his bank hook to George Krapf. an
undertaker, saying that he shcgild .lulej
the ennney fao. his borial in case ha diaL'
ITALY DECLA
WITH GERM
ROME CI
Text of Italian
War Declaration
The Italian governmet e
dares in the same of the King I
that Italy considers herself to be
in a state of war with Germany
as from August 28 and begs the
Swiss government to convey this I
information to the imperial Ger- (
man government.
SEVENTEEN CAUGHT IN
QUAKER CITY DRUG RAID
e! Thre V.a.ineston Hersld
Philadelphia. Aug 27.-Seventeen per
tons. including Charles Baumgardner.
he alleged proprietor, were arrested early
today in a Joint raid by United States
ovenue offipe- and police from the Elev
trth and Winter streets station, upon the
-estaurant at Tenth and Winter streets.
known as "The Arsenal.'
The raid was conducted by Colonel Rob
rt 1;,ach. of the revenue ser-ics, Police
aptain Kenny and Lieutenant Van Horn.
Three whmen we-- among those arrested.
and in the pe"soren of nearly every per
on taken a-ordng to the poli-e. was
oiund a packae of *onie white substance
raid to resemble drugs.
The raid. a-cor ding to Lieutenant Van
[torn. as, rade as a consequene of the
recommendatio.s of the grand jury.
Baumgardnier being taken into custody
pon a technica! charge of conducting a
li-reputable hou-e. Lieutenant Van Horn
"aid that legal +fort would he made to
;ev, nt the pace reopening.
RECORD AS GOVERNOR
USED BY HUGHES' MEN
Sreml to The "adurner Heriae 0
New York. Aug. -A ninety-page rec- r
ord of Charles F Hughes' adoninstra- f
tion as governor of N.w Trk Is being a
circulated by the Hughes alliance. Tens r
of thousands of copies have been scat- f
tered through the country with the note. I;
"Upon his record as governor the Re- t
;ubllcan party asks the people to elect
him President.
These sre described as amnong the j
Hughes achievements
Protect4on of children in Indu v : t
workmen's compensation for accidents:
protection of abers from shysters. P
cent gas, puttmg public service corpora-i
Minn under enmrtission control, *Ianking
and insurance reforms: establishment of
an immigration bure-au, and anti-race
tracA gabtling l 'islation
"MILE-MINUTE" MURPHY 1
STOPS RUNAWAY HORSE t
Spe-al t, r .a-bhmron H-IT
New York. A u a -Policeman cha_ -P r
T. Murrhv. better known as 'Mile-a- f
Minute' Mlurphy. raced his motoreyelp
down the coping roadway at the Man- I
hattan end of the Manhattan Rridge
today and etopped a runasay horse just a
as it was swrrving toard the ernaded
sidewalk -n 'anI Street. Murph' was
thrown ar d sffered lacerations and r
brtI S's . f,
William Ptown a drier employed bye
.Tacksn Prothers. triu'kmen. of M.anhat
tan. had 1-t control of the animal when i
the hit brok short ,I
v~ertak:ng the nimal before it had -
gone a inck. Murphy Intoled one hand f
in Its mane and fin1i himself from his
motor'-c've N With his other hand he t,
graspad the horse throat. shutting offr
i's wind and bringinc 1 to a halt a few t
feet from the sidewalk
PARALYSIS CLAIMS TWO
MORE IN BALTIMORE i.
ps-vl to Thre Waetr-gtc Heeam
Baltimore. Ai. '-Tao deaths from
infantile paralys s were reported at the
health diepart-nIt toda. and two sus
perted cases of the disease were also
aIlled to the attention of the Depart
ment.
There are two other cases suspctedl.
but they will not he reported publIcly
untl after I- C -renk Jones. diagnosti
elan of the deportment. makes a report
on them These are Baltimore city cases
nnd. as far a -s known. a ere not
brought here from elsewhe-re.
SHAKY BRIDGE BREAKS
$2,000 WORTH OF SLEEP!
rcia t Te St awen te-aM
Havre de Grace. Md . Aug 2--Charg- I,
Ing that the rattling of a shaky bridge 1,
distur, s slumbers. and allegitng that t
the P1t, elphia. Baltimore and Wash- ,
inglon T. lIoad is under contract to keep 3
it in rep. % Walter I Weher has filed a
$92t11k sit in the Hartford County Cir
cuit C'ourt against the company.
By the failure of the company to keep
this bridge in repair the claimant charges
passing automobiles and other vehicles
cause the plankinu to rattle and shake
sod mass so mu-h nore that Weber says
he cannot sleep at night.
HUMILIATED PRISONER
HANGS SELF IN CELL
Specil tn The 1 a- ington Heraldl
South Betliehem. Pa . Auig. 7--To be
placed in cell No. 13. and on top of all
this in the women's department of the
local police station, humiliated Joeeph
Kteegan, aged 40. of Pittsburgh.
When Sergeant Ryan's hark was turned
he knotted a bandana handkerchief
atround his neck,. tied one end to a.
rafter and committed suicide.
BREMEN ON HIGH SEAS;
SAYS AMSTERDAM CABLE
(Bly the Intermattomai News Service.)
Londonu. Aug. 27 -A dispatch from
Arnsterdam quoites Alfred Lohmann, head
of the Ocean Rhederel. W hich promotes1
the stubrea frcightets. as saying in an
interview in the KCoelni'-he Zeitung:
"The Brernen. the Deutschland's sister
ship, is now on the high seas bound for
Blate.s with a wa.~ oe ammU
RES WAR
kN EMPIRE;
lEERS NEWS
innouncement Sent Kaiser
Through Switzerland; Rou
mania Expected Next to
Join Conflict.
By the latermatlonal News Servies.)
Rome, Aug. 28.-Italy today is at
rar with Germany.
The declaration of hostilities was
tade by Italy. Following informa
ion that it had reached the imperial
erman government through Swit
erland, announcement of the gov
rnment's action was made here late
esterday.
The intolerable situation create4
y the fact that Italy was at waf
rith Germany's ally, and the fact'
hat Germany loaned all possible
1pport to that ally Austria-Hungary.
gainst Italians and their interesta. Ie
le government i- its dciin
That deoision was made public in the
ullowing announcement:
"The Italian govIrnment declares ta
1e name of the King that Italy con
ders herself to be in a state of wav
ith Gernany aq from August " and
eo the Swiss government to convey
its information to the imperial Ge.
an government "
The enmplete cessation of all com-e
unication betw--en Italy ind G.r
any. brought about by tI- Aitr-ian
talian war, made it neesar-y for
!ly to convev through Sw:terland
er declaration of war to Germa%.
It Is belived here that Remmamia.
:1k which satios Italy long has had
a estente, will fellsw the Italtan
.vernme is a declaratien of war
falast the central empiew and thei'
Ille..
In some quartrs it is erpert- That
its announcement by the Bueharest
overnment will come no later than
idy or tomorrow
Voilo :ing a m tire - in
mya the offictal arne-n--ent o' a siate
f war hetneen ita ard '-l-mn, Ias
lad. A rtatement g-l-c ti r-ann
ir the action of the Its gove---rert
ian was given o I I '-a'-on Snrnn.
inister of foreign Afa rs It is in the
rm of a en mm-naton to S. itzer
.nd. a ncutral and was ta' sr:.,ted
,oigh the l'ahar mrster a Re7- -e
The announ-enent of mar vn a rir
tany had the noer cheerlng effr-et pos
ible on the pole. Grat rcrwds rotris
a to the streeta immediately the neern
ecame pubie and processirs -_
tarted In nany -Tions of Fr- Re.
orts from the prov;ri41 etre ' of
qual rejoicIng throjrhout tha an
Crisis at Owcharest.
The situation at Poare twa -ede
orisi . it is dec e : - a' r''. - t"
',.t the popIuls a rn--eri ' om
-ini-ctim was -e :ad th c --r'
Ttaly's actio ins e' .
rise It ha, hee- -I 'e e sed,
areatened and e - '' - -i,' ,e
ninced as oft.' a t y- -1n 'r-evn
on on, the a' ct. - ha - e
oI expected to baenmr " a e : 'i
act before marv m-tore dIca vxe c-ct.
he coeanc of thc T'c'-l e r'. a ctlotia
are taken sin- A:v t'
4,v'p intritable r m re
nd foreehdawd 1 l , f, 1 -v oit
andI-g events
At the h-rr-' n' ,I w ' ra
nured the trip'a ' . . em red
, a polo-' of -- '.ix -
Ithe da Iear Ill r,'e-t nr on
'etri -Hungar- p. i 1r tn n , I- " It
ig pressure of pub e-t-men' n/ re
e- 'ormer ,l'x i- A us' ' ''- ahe
'lio-ed this rp r't a d' .ano. of
Ar arainst Turkei . 'Gr-k xet pn
'e On Fer ii-,a t' '1 T talian
overrment reoui'ed t'-', 'our of
'xe thl'tv-seven Ge're etrecp- '-en
trred in Italia por1 e1d her
Imc ll 1- third dmI of the prent
'onth when Itl, gave no-l-- It er
tany of the tetmiratln no '1-c T'al.
er-nan noimcrciai treaty oa rqL -ehija
'(u-I ha.' -T--1 at 'he .,-I of '191.
Balkan Trenble Responsible.
'rulousixv eninch the irMmeditle cause
f Itals dcla.-en of open hostilities
ga-nst Gerrmai is the dIevenprtt of
ffaIrs in the care ''there o* t'rect"
hat wa chiefiv reepontic cir the r-r
le of the tr' e ll1tn1e and It,-' -e
ucal to fIght on th a o'i-e Trni
owers. namel-v. the Balkatns
In August. 1914 se eave a, ore n- her
easons the fast that A:-r-l I tan
gait SerhIa tended to ttpet tI- status
he wjshel In le r-',T-'in- "he
tikan. for the aIlkan roplee - T.
ax she draw the I I - ""'man"
rincipal!v to be Ahle It I, e an aot-ce
art in the Msoedontan arr by
bi h the entente I-owers r-r - I, --e
onuIr Serbia.
'nce before the silhca htd .-.eeled i
talv to take a hand r, T ", aR al' r , A'
hat time, hnwever. Ti ref-:-d It
3as in Octoher of la' ar. ier re -
Ind and France s^':h to roIe rood
heir promise to sc.- Se:a om heing
-errin by the -Oni Teiton And
tutigarian
Itaty' epaer cas that he- for-eu
r.r. tied up In the Trntino and 'n Al
aon and thet she t 'Ited t, lli-a
roIld "rectifav their own otakcs -
Ine then the etenit- I - I- e
hrowin the Teutonie etr-e on the d.
ensv on eli front,- a'--- mt a italv'
rok an activ'. par' h. her veeoosi "'9
.nsive on the Isonin. The mia-y sit
atinn ha. changed raical-eand the
set that It is not nec-iv e. fcs-rr'e r
',et-many. as8 It was inst fall it he'le' ci
a he. the ciplanation for I'at's latast
nov.
Vea neo Delayed Mcgak.
T'he fart that open w-tarea not rotn.
coner between the two former spice I.
ttributed chiefly tn the dliniomatlir
etivities of Prince Bernuhad v-on R',c
aw. former Imtperiat Gierman chanceltor.
rho, through hia mnarriage with an ITal
an noblewoman and his many de,'nted
riends at K~ing Victor Emmanuel's
ourt, had prohably' mnore Itluen-e at
tome than any other Furopean states
nan'. Though unable to av'ert an Itato
Ltustrian war. he succeeded in p'rev'al..
tng upon Italvc to a-old a break with
ermany. Direct dlomlcnatie intercour'e
ra. broken when he left Rnme. is ef
nrts were feverishly enmbatted by the
ntente powers Frequent vsits were
miade by' French and Enr'ish statesmen.
lyen Premier Asquith went to Rocm.
sat April.
Qulekeet itervlee te Baitimmee.
Every hotir on the boor. Baltimore
nd Ohio. hj7 round triD. Satmrdays
ad lundaja. til&Oa-AAwr
