fHEWEATHER FORECAST.
Generally fair to-day and to-morrow,
with moderate temperature.
Highest temperature yesterday, 84 ; loweit,6t).
Detailed weather, mall and marine reports on page 6
IT SHINES FOPv ALL
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 363.
NEW YORK, MONDAY, AUGUST' 28, 1916. Copyright, 1918, 6y the Sun Printing and PubUthing At$oclaHon.
ONE CENT
In Greater New York.
Jersey City nd Newark,
Kluewhers
TWO CENTS,
t
WILSON TO PUT
RAILWAY CRISIS
UP TO CONGRESS
President Prepares to Hold
Both Houses in Session
to Avert Strike.
HEX DEFER ACTION
UNTIL SEPTEMBER 1
White House Considers
Legislation to Termit Gov
ernment to Run Lines.
COMPENSATION IDEA
FOR EIGHT HOUR DAY
Samuel Rea of Pennsyl
vania Company Prefers
Tieup to Surrender.
Washi.scto.v, Aug. 27. President
Wilson, In the hope of finding a way
(f averting tho impending strike of
400,000 railway trainmen or of obtain
ing authority to deal summarily with
conditions that will arise if one is de
clared, Is prepnred to hold Congress in
icjslon until the present critical situa
tion passes.
This was tho word pnsscd to Con
gress leaders to-day. So long as the
present deadlock remains unbroken or
until he feels himself master of the
lltuatlon the I'rcsldcnt purposes to Kalamazoo. Mich., Aug. IT. Two men
haie ConsrcM ready for any demand , XZX. wfen'Sfn
that may be made upon It. J nutnmobltes piled up at the first turn
It was moro than evident to-day that H,u 100 '"" "" l Recreation
th. White House is looking to the Capl- I "he dead are;5''
tol as the last resort for uld In break- ' MAltlON ARNOLD, mechanician, Chi
Ing the deadlock that has arisen be- cago, decapitated.
teen the railroad executives and em-, JACK PEACOCK, driver, Brooklyn, both
I'loycc". Tho President, realizing tho, Wps broken and head crushed : died In
utter failure of his plan of settlement,
U struggling desjicratcly to find u Icg
isUtlvo remedy.
Jolut Session la' Probable.
Tu.iil.ht President Wilson made an un-
flixcted call on Senator Kern, who was
Pending a meeting of tho .Senate
Finance Committee.
If the negotiations to Kettle the strike
fall." mid .Mr. Kern, nfter his Interview
ltb th President, "Congress must en-i
dvor to solve the dlfllculty."
It N believed arrangements will be
made for the President to address n Jaint
wsion on Tuesday, wtten a iiuorum of,
the House has been summoned to reach
Washington.
The President conferred to-dav with
Secretary l.ane. formerly a member of
the Interstate Commerce Commission,
itul Senator Newlands, chairman of the
r'enate Committee on Interstate 1 Com-
merce. Secretary Lane to-night con
ferred with Senator Newlands. There
are also Indications that Secretary Lane
i keeping In touch Indirectly with the
rillnud ixcrutlves.
Secretary Lane and Senator Newlands
irked until late to-night framing bills
f'r presentation to Congress.
The measure given most serious con.
serration was one drawn along the lines
of the Canadian act which provides for
hmtlRitlon of Industrial dispute by a
commission for one year and prevents
strives or lockouts during the period of
Investigation. If It Anally Is decided to
'te such a measure an effort will bo
nude to put It in effect at once.
Mrlke Would He Civil War.
Senator New lands after leaving the
lilte llouso to-day wild :
"In event of a strike the most serious
.railed late, problem will be that of keep
ing the railroads In operation und de
termining how far the Federal Govern
ment should go to prevent demoraliza
tion of business und complete stagnation
if commerce.
"A strike of the dimensions of that
threatened would be civil war, Jt
la Ills tn Ignore the fact that such a
strike roulil not be won without force. It
uuld be necessary for the Government
" ue force and to resort to the military
ami every other agency nt Its disposal to
"fffet v blence and keep the roads open.
Jlnw f;ir ,10 uovernment should go In
ti' matter of forcing operation of tho
'"S'l.i Is a serious problem for Congress
to cintier."
At the conference which the President
J"s held with Congress leaders tho possl
M'y had been considered of enacting
J'k.l.iiton which would permit the.Gov
fmnieiit p, htep in and contlnuo train
"M, e hi the event of a strike
iT'i ''rrsldent and his advisers havo i
k'J, in.,, of the possibility of estab- i
I .lie ('Vila. mi , i j ui ennui'
ut me rignt pour day ny legislation
"I'll lertaln compensatory features for
t.i ImhIs. The brotherhoods are
'M'Onii to a,1. KUcn legislative cnact
n.ent iieciiise they want tho present
we inn system to continue.
President Studying All Plan.
The e nines of increasing the Inter
state Commerce Commission by two
rr.mhfri who avowedly favor Increased
nillrnid rates was'another feature dls
cuts,. ,y 0 .rPS,,.nti Un nonn (,i
these imasures, however, has Mr. Wilson
ei ii up, ,,,, mnj, ji Bnipiy
''"ii.g about for some legislative sug
getiiiii t'-irit may open the way for fur
tl ' i.i initiations.
"' tliij pan of the executives and
t,p ,,,'rl"")d delegates to-day there was
" sl.-n of yielding. Tho brotherhood
'j'- 'Siti - held a meeting nt which It was
! ile i that authority should be con
j'rr l i,,i,n n committee of twenty-four,
lr' 'i'l i. t,e four chiefs, to continue the
!!! 't ll'lons,
The lemalnder were given their re
'"" vvitn the strike order, In blank, in
tli'.r ("icketH and full Instructions us to
ha' Mould be dono in the event thnt
T'l nines firun the leaders that the
l" H' 'i.hi inn nre at nil end. Kach dile
(' wan directed to communicate the
s'r e o,ii.r to a certain number of local
ri.ui. u Is understood tho strike
c '!" Is complete except for the dale of
tall, which is left blank. Assurances
I
Cpntlautd o rowrt JPaaM
W. i4. BRADY HURT AS
MOtOR AXLE SNAPS
John Turk aUd Jules Eckcrt
Goodman Also Suffer
Cuts and Bruises.
William A. Brady. New York the
nftlcal producers John Turk, his but),
ness manager, and Jules Eckert Good
man, author of 'The Man Who Came
Hack," were taken to Muhlenberg Hos
pital In Plalnneld, N. J., yesterday
morning, all suffering from cuts and
bruises suffered In an automobile ac
cident near Dunellen.
Ooodtnan's play was presented at
Plslnflcld Saturday night The three
men, after tho performance, started In
ilraily s car for Wilmington, whero the
Play Is to have Its second presentation
to-night. Just out of Dunellen the rear
axle of the car snapped, almost over
turning the machine and hurling the the
atrical men Into a ditch. It was con
sidered remarkable that no one was
killed. An examination at the hospital
showed that nono of the men even suf
fered any broken bones.
An unidentified woman was killed last
nlsht by the automobile of Alexander J.
Habo, proprietor of the Central Hotel at
Orange, N. J. Sabo was driving alone In
est Central avenue. Orange, when his
car struck tho woman. He did not see
her In tho darkness and the car had pro
cecded some distance before he noticed
her body dragging from the fender.
The woman was neatly dressed, ap
parently about SO years old. and about
five feet six inches In height. Bhe wore
a white waist, a white, skirt with black
stripes and black shoes and stockings.
On her fingers were two rings, one a
wedding ring. The other was set with
a pearl.
11 CARS PILED UP IN
RACE; 2 DEAD, 8 HURT
Lending Motor Upsets at Kala
mazoo Track and Others
Plough Into Wreckage.
hospital,
F. K. Marquette of Kalamaxoo. mech
anician for Peacock, was Injured In the
head ajid his left leg was broken In thres
places. He probably will die.
Tho others Injured are Harold W.
Downs, Kalamazoo, driver, cut about
fuco and head ; Hoy Newton. Kulamaxoo.
mechanician for Downs, cuts on face and
head ; Thomas Hall. Coldwater, Mich.,
driver, back Injured : (luy I.. Ha I ley,
Coldwater, mechanician for Hall, face
nnd back Injured: Jimmy Alexander,
, Sioux City, la., mechanician, badly
bruised: Andy Hurt, driver. Chicago.
badly bruised : Otto Henning, driver,
cnicago, minor injuries.
The accident occurred when Tcacock's
car. leading In the race, skidded and
struck the fence at the first turn. It
was overturned and thrown squarely
ucross tho track. Heforc track uttend-
unti could signal the other drivers ten
of tho machines going at n terrific clip
ploughed Into the overturned car.
Five
of them were demolished.
CAR IN RIVER; 4 KILLED.
Konr Other Hurt In Pennsylvania
Motor Accident.
Wm.lsiioro, Pa., Aug. 27. Two men
and two children lost their lives and
four other persons wcro Injured last
night when un automobile occupied by
Karl Sherman and family of Kndlcott,
N. V., went over un embankment Into
the Tloga HIver near Covington, Pa.
The dead are:
11AHL SH15RMAN. 23. captain of
firemen nnd police at Kndlcott; neck
broken.
FltANK PUnnY, chauffeur. 32;
drowned.
TWO DAUGHTERS OF SHERMAN.
2Vi years and 5 months old; both
drowned.
The Injured nre Mrs. Caroline Becker,
Mm. Sherman and two men, names not
known.
Heavy rains and a dense fog pre
vented Perry from making a curve on
the down grade of tho slippery roarl.
The automobile went over a twelvo foot
embankment and turned bottom side
up. It took twelvo men to raise tho
car from the bodies beneath It.
MEXICAN CONFEREES ON WAY.
Cabrera Coming via Vera Cms
' Other Overland.
Mexico Citt, Aug. 27. The Mexican
peace commissioners left to-day for
New York, Luis Cabrera, president of
ItiA lmuril npi'nmnAnleil 111 .Tiamu f.lnn
Rodgers, American representative, pro-
reeded to Vera Cms and will sail to
morrow for Key West on the transport
Dixie. Alberto J. Panl and Ignaclo
Bonlllas, the other members, started for
Saltlllo, where they will arrive to-morrow
and then decide whether to take
the F.agle Pass or Uiredo route.
Before departing Senor Cabrera and
Mr. Rodger had talks with Gen. Car
innsa, Gen. Obregon and Minister
Agullar. who were nt tho station to sec
them off.
RAGTIME MAKES A HOT FIRE.
10,000 Worth of Irving Berlin'
New Sang Destroyed.
There Is JlO.ono worth less of ragtlmo
In tho world to-day than there was yes
terday before tiro In the Aped a Studio
building, 2T2 West Forty-clshth streot,
destroyed several of Irving Berlin's un
published songs. At least Berlin puts
the value of the burned manuscript at
that figure.
The, Apeda Photographic Studios oc
cupied most of the building, a five story
affair, but th song writer had an office
cm the third floor.
llaac Himself on Park Fenoe.
John Denlnske, 33 years old, a sta
tionary engineer who lived at 18 Pa
cific street, Brooklyn, climbed a fence
In Bronx Park at Webster avenue near
201st street yesterday, tied a piece of
rope around lil neck and to the top
wire and then Jumped. Hla bod wag
found avm kours UXUk
PRIVATE FIRMS WILL
BUILD 28 WARSHIPS
Navy Yards, Clogged With
Old Work, Cannot Handle
the 4 Now Battleships.
BIDS TO BE OPENED OCT. 25
Daniels in Hurry to Get Flans
Started Before Election,
Officers Say.
" Washington, Aug. 27. With the new
navy bill certain to become law this
week and the congestion at shipyards
Indicating almost prohibitive prices,
many Important decisions have been
reached by tho Navy Department within
tho last forty-eight hours.
The four battleships, four scout cruis
ers and twenty destroyers are to be
built by private contract. October 23
has been set as the date for the grand
opening of bids for these craft.
Neither the New York nor the Mare
Island navy yard can undertake addi
tional construction work owing to the
congestion of unfinished work there.
The fuel ship Is to be built at the
Boston Navy Yard.
The hospital ship Is to be built at
the Philadelphia Navy Yard.
The gunboat is to be built at the navy
yard at Charleston, 8. C,
With Secretary Daniels determined to
make a spectacular beginning with tho
building programme for campaign pur
poses and with the navy yards over
crowded already, the problem of pro
hibitive prices at the shipyards looms
seriously.
There will be such a heavy demand
on all of the shipyards that these yards
will naturally be able to dictate their
own prices. Competition will have en
tirely disappeared. It Is explained, to make
way for Mr. Daniels's spectacular play
and tho Navy Department will have to
pay whatever is asked.
No Need of Waste.
Ofllccrs of the navy point out that this
waste of public money could all have
been avoided If the recommendations of
tho General Hoard, year by year, had
been adopted. Hut at first trip board's
programme of building increase was
scoffed at in favor of pacifist policies,
and now In response to public opinion the
Navy Department Is rushing In to spend
money fast Hko tho proverbial sailor
on shore leave.
"liut what ra i23.uui),uM more or less
to the present Administration?" wns the
comment of one officer who pointed out
that the scientific, well organised plans
of the General Board would havo pro
vided at an enormous saving a much
more powerful navy than Is now being
rushed through. Naval ofneers generally,
however, are so pleated at the prospect
of at last getting out of the pacifist rut
that they ar not concerned about the
expense which tho present method will
necessitate.
Hy tho "present method'' naval ofllrers
mean the determination of Mr. Daniels
to get the contracts for the building pro
gramme let before election. Tho In
creased expenditure will not figure In the
proceedings. It Is reasoned, until later on.
The contrast between the former policy
of pacifism backed by lack of business
organization In tho Navy Department
and the present plan to get real results
Is strikingly shown at practically all the
navy yards.
Navy Yard Clogged.
Mr. Daniels wanted them to take the
lion's share of the new building pro
gramme and advised them to that effect,
but he, was reminded that the Depart
merit hml ler wnrtt lap nn nmeli .loHiit? .
the post two years that "the Government
yards were clogged with unfinished bust
ness.
For example, Secretary Daniels thought
It would be an excellent Idea for the
New York Navy Yard to have the honor
of building one of the new miperdread
noughts and asked how soon work could
be begun on that ship. He was Informed
that the supeidreadnought New Mexico
had not yet been completed at the New
York yard and that work had not even
commenced on the superdreadnought
Tennessee, already authorized.
The Navy Department remembered
then that dickering over slight tncrcises
In cost of materials had completely
blocked work on these shliw. The De
partment Is now ready to throw all mat
ters of expense overboard, but there Is
neither room nur labor to be had ut tho
yai d.
Innulry at the Mare Island Navy Yard
brought forth similar Information. That
yard was to have the hunur of building
a battleship, but it has not yet completed
tho battleship California. It has been
found that It will tako more than will
ingness to spend money to build a uhip
here.
Thus with the Government navy yards
backward In their work and crowded
with unfinished business. Secretary
Daniels has been forced to depend en
tirely on prlvata contvuets.
MEDAL FOR FORMER N. Y. GIRL.
Dneliesse de C'hulaenl Honored for
Work Nursing; French Troops.
Pahis, Aug. 27, The Minister of War
will award a gold medal to the Duchessa
de Cholseul, daughter of tho lato Fred
eric R. Coudert of 'New Yoik, for de
votion to tho work of nursing French
troops.
Soon after tho war commenced the
Ducliesse gave up social life In Paris and
became a nurse In the small Breton vil
lage of Fougerrs. There she has nursed
French soldiers 111 with Infectious dis
eases, The Duchrsso has lived abroad
slneo tier marriage about twenty-three
years aso.
HALF FOUND OF MEAT WEEKLY.
Done I Also Included In Weight
Decreed by Germany.
Special Cable Dttpateh to Tiis Bc.
London, Aug. 28. Beginning October
1 no German In the boundaries of the
empire may eat more than a half pound
of meat a week. The half pound Includes
bone.
Children under seven will be allowed
only a quarter of a pound of meat, in
cluding bone, a week.
BRITISH CASUALTIES 31,272.
Week' Itecord Include 1,047
Ollcrr and 30,325 Men.
Special Cable lleepatch tn Tils Siv,
London, Aug. 28. The War Office has
announced the British casualties for the
week Just finished, totalling 31,272. Of
these 1,047 were officers, of whom 278
were killed. Tho casualtlea among en
listed men wero 10,215, ot whom 4,891
war killed.
SUMMER RESIDENTS
FIGHT NASSAU FIRE
Newly Purchased Homo of W.
B. Grace at Wcstbury Cor
ners Burned.
DWELLING UNTENANTED
Raymond T. Nellson, Who Re
cently Vacated It, Loses
His Furnishings.
Mineola, L. I., Aug. 27. Summer
residents of Westbury, Mineola and
North Hempstead, reenforced by the'flre
departments of all three villages. Joined
lo-nlght In vainly trying to extinguish a
fire which destroyed the famous Samuel
Vclsor placo at Old Westbury Corners,
now owned by W. Russell Grace, who
purchased the estate a few days ago
from Raymond T. Nellson, a New York
portrait painter. Tho loss, It was esti
mated, will exceed (40,000. Many valua
ble paintings and personal belongings of
the Nellson family were In the house at
the time.
The flames from the burning building
lighted up the neighborhood for miles
around and brought persons to the spot
In automobiles from all sections In the
vicinity. The Veisor estate adjoins the
residences of Harry Payne Whitney and
W. II. Park. The estates of Samuel
Phlpps and Howard Phlpps are also
near by. Many of these persons assisted
In fighting the fire until the arrival of
the apparatus, and nfter that not a few
offered their services as volunteer fire
men. The origin of the fire Is a mystery.
There was no one In the house at the
time, as the Nellsnns had vacated pre
paratory to the occupancy of Mr. Grace
and his family. Mr. Grace, who Is a
member of W. R. Grace & Co.. was onei
of the tlrst to arrive on the scene and , expected.
took charge of the work of the volunteer Tno Kntcnte Allies have been chaf-
firemen. Fanned by a stiff breeze, how- ..
ever, the blaze rapidly got lieyond con-'lng under the limitations imposed on
trol and swept throuith the three story them in tho Near Knstcrn thentro of
fforofbrn?em:'nhlndCred U' "'j war by the fact that King Victor Em
There were apparently no grounds for i manuel'sj Government would not con
the belief that the fire might havo been t , action In which Italian
of an Incendiary origin, hut the fact, . .
that the house was known to havo been; troops would bo directly opposed to
unoccupied may lead to an Investigation those of the Katcr.
V--'.' " -iwavs! This unsatisfactory feature of the re
been known, consists of about thirty-live' latlons between Italy anil tho l-.iilenta
acres and has been n landmark In the,jowcrs was strikingly apparent nt the
nelKhborhood for years. The dwelling ,I1U. 0f u,B Austro-Genuan Invasion of
was erected more than 150 years ago.
PLOT TO KIDNAP HAREMAN.
Three Said tn Have l'onfrnl Plaa
. f 100.000 n...
St. Antiiont. Ia., Aug. 27. An al-'
i.M,i ini iii.imm K itiibind H:irrl-1
irim. bin n t Mrs. K. 11. Ilurrlman. hold
him for u ransom of IlOO.ono und in'nc
fhlu rnnunm WAN tint lllllll to blind
the boy and otherwise dlsilgure him for
life became known following the arrest
of Marlon A. l.ufkln. David Mcliy und
Ralph Zufelt. alias Ralph Majors.
The three are now In Jail charged with
conspiracy to go to Island Park, where
young Harrlmaii Is spending his vaca
tion, kidnap him and bold him for ran
som. Two of them have confessed, ac
cording to the police.
l.ufkln was nrtrsted nt Island Park,
whero he had M-rured a position as
ranch hand, by Deputy SherlfT Hudson
on suspicion of being Implicated In a
lmrirlurv
here. When given me iniru
ilegreo l.o denied tho burglary, but con-
reused that ho went to tho ranch for the
purpose of kidnapping young Harrlmaii waiting only for the propitious moment
and Implicated the two other men. giving 1 10 throw In Its lot with the enemies of
all details ot tho plot. Uiter the. other the Teutons.
two wcro arrested. Mcliy also con- t 1 recalled that nt the lime of Bus
fessed, but Zufelt denied being Implicated 1 s,Vs first drive through Gallcla Into
III the affair. I Hungary, Rumania was ready for war
when the Czar's army was In the Buko-
NV TaGV rnD WVVIV TcTPITT wlna. on tho Rumanian border. Ncgotla
. Y. LAOX JfcUli LNhBi.1 tlJUtiL. . tllt)1 .wcre j,,,,.,,!!' between ItussU nnd
War C.amr snoivi Troops tooia
Land SO Mile From Cllr.
.. , ., Th
r.L. '...iV...i i...
. Z 'Zl'1'1'1 hcen "m1 .
.ii.-
, nl.l. . h ... ...nl. I.,.,., ....
tairiy
att
bcl
miles
Autdl
POS!
llect
which was lacking
problem."
Rcnr Admiral Knight, who wns the
umpire lu tho war game, said that
throughout the week's nianceuvres the
weather was misty, with a visibility
rarely exceeding three or four miles.
Conditions of this sort nre characteristic
of tho Atlantic roast and should bo reck
oned with In future plans of naval strat
egy, he said.
NAVY NEEDS 175,000 MEN.
Admiral Fnllnni Kay It' Time for
People of Writ to Wnke t'p.
Sam Dir.nn, Cal., Aug. 27. "In the
event of war the I'nlted States navy
would need at once 175,000 trained
men." was the statement made to-day
by Roar Admiral William Fullam, com
mander In chief of the Pacific reserve
fleet, In an address delivered hero on
board the cruiser South Dakota to the
for adequate preparedness.
CULBERSON LEADS IN TEXAS.
With 1(3,000 Vote irnheard From
Colquitt 00.075 Behind.
Dallas, Tex., Aug. 27. With nn esti
mated vote of 25,000 yet to bo heard
from in Saturday's United Stntes Sena
torial run off primary. Senator Charles
A, Culberson was leading former Gov
ernor Oscar B. Colquitt by 66,975 votes
late to-night.
The missing returns, which It Is be
lieved cannot materially change the pres.
ent ratio, wcre coming In slowly nnd tho
count probably will not be complete be
fore Tuesday. Senator Culberson car
ried every county on the Mexican border
except one.
In tho July primary, In which there
were five candidates, Colquitt received
about 30,00 more votes than Culber
son, but lacked a two-third majority of
tho total vota cast.
ii.uri..oU .--u..-. sUi-4....,..n. rronl uussia nun oy """""" i the lake. Bvery tlmo the Serbs saw the lotteries Into a great concentration of
nckliw licet lias an excellent cnance ot Trasyvanla from lcate. .m ""a. nack , t , . ,,,.,, fl,rnnn, fl0ll f , defence of Thlepval. It will
ng able to land troops within twenty At this time Italy was not yet at war. . . ,renchc8 ...,. .,. )avonet to meet i. ..... r,... :,r.ltl... v .1, el ever seen
I.N.C-W. . 'J'- "car Admiral rrlnco von Buelow. the 'X'Zll .7 l iu far tt;0- l,;,vo "P"''' "! the British fnmt. " Meanwhile, we
n M. Knight declared to-night. envoy, was working tooth and Had nt J ..,.. rut!, i,..,.hi se.-.or. Worn! ,.11 shadow of
Nothing of tills sort would have been Romo to avert host i t w neiween t ie ,() l))ey )my( Wn nM(M p,,, 1MlM and w Ithout .Aagger.itlon. the mas-
jlble," lie saiu, "ir tne .leienmng 'Jiiue peninsular kuikih.... ... " p.. their nrtlllery. the War oillco sajs. iei-v of the nlr. and that Is the sutireme
had bad nn efficient scouting force, archy. hlle lie uni not evniiuin su- f . s rb. , runners havo clearly ...... t,. cons and the tnf.mtrv sun.
civilian volunteers who arc un.icrgoing ,1Inml,a'H Intentions Is expected to be
"'V:?1 ,rn,"""r; , , ., . ! made without delay. Bucharest des-
The Admiral expressed surprise that ; '.,)rsW 'received hero via Amsterdam
he people on the west coast took ho " , ,nal ,,, ,.rmvM rowwn
little Interest n the unprotec led Is t.ite ' "I . fr (lVlock , the morning,
of their coastline and declared that It w ( xtuli postponed at a late hour last
was tlmo they awoke to tho necessity!'"" . 1 1
ITALY DECLARES WAR ON GERMANY;
MAY BRING RUMANIA, WITH 750,000
MEN, INTO CONFLICT ON ALLIES' SIDE
Immediate Intervention by
Balkan Kingdom Now
Expected.
AHMY IS HEADY FOR
DRIVE AT HUNGARY
Seasoned Troops Well Sup
plied With Guns and
Ammunition.
CROWX COUNCIL IS
TO BE HELD TO-DAY
King Ferdinand Also Calls
Conference of Nation's
Chief Men.
Paws, Aug. 27. The nctlon of Italy
In ending tho anomalous situation
which has existed since her declara
tion of war against Anstrli In May,
1913, by making a formal declaration
of war against Germany was not un-
Montenegro. The Montenegrins opemy
charged that Italy had loft them In the
lurch, falling t send troops and supplies
mfllclent to defend Mount lovrhen. "the
Gibraltar of tho Adriatic." which foil
into the hands of the Teutons after only
VrffKlsd however, that
itnly has made the formal declaration of
i,n.iiitH mrnltut Germany with the In-
iti,m of oxnandlng her own xonc of
ntlon of expanding her own woo
tlon In the military operations against j
o Central Powers. It Is Known tnai .
1ia
0Ver since Italy entered the war and In
fltot lncc the actual beginning of the
great conflict. Italy and Rumania have
acted alwajs In close concert, and It Is
to Bucharest that those who are In touch
with the diplomatic aspects of the, war
now look for nn explanation of the ac
tion taken at Rome.
To Impress Rumania.
Rumania's Immedla'e entry Into the
,.ne nn llie I'lllo (if tllO HlltCntC AlllOS
is Relieved to bo the object of Italy s
declaration. Of Rumania's sympathy
wit, lp Entente mere never nan oeen
anJ. doubt, and It Is realized that the
r-nvernment of King Ferdinand has been
Itumania regarinoK if iti.i.u..o.
IVUIII'.II.M " ' - .
cessions the Czar was prcparen to mane
to the Hawaii ninsuum r. iuio .. ..v-
live pariicip.iiii.ii i...... p. ......
generally m-ucyi ....... " """"
manmiis oum .... i -i
1 . .... ll.nii n. .ml1
eee.l In maintaining pe
of l!nrone It was openly declared by
hern of tho Rumanian Government
.1,. hn delayed Italy's declaration
- ' . " , ,,,,., n An.ihl.
against Austria Ion " to fnah e
the Austrlans nnd Germans to stem the
Russian Invading tide and force Ru
mania, for her own safely, to remain
neutral.
Hold the Scales Again.
rractlcally similar conditions now
! on Hio eastern front. The Russians
arc again hammering nt tho gates of
Hungary. The Czar's armies ate. on the
frontier of Rumania, ino iiiueii iroops
at Salonlca have begun the long threat
ened drive northward through the Bal
kans. Rumania thus once again holds
the scales, and It Is regarded by mill
tn.v and dlnlnmntlc experts hero that
Italy has openly aligned herself agalnstij
Germany so as to muuciico ncr .aun
sister In the Balkans."
A Crown Council will bo held In
Bucharest at C o'clock Monday after
noon unit a uenniu" niiiniuiiceioeiii in
night
King Ferdinand, the same despatches
assert, has convened n conference of nil
tho political parties of his country, for
mer Premiers, former presidents of tho
legislative chambers, Ministers and Gov
ernment represenlatlvcs, with n view to
ascertaining tho wishes of all sections
of public opinion regarding the present
situation.
Sympathise With llntente.
While the present Government of Ru
mania Is officially neutral, Premier Bra.
tlano has made no secret of his sym
pathies for tho Kntento Allies. Men like
Flllpescu and Take Jonescu, who rep.
resent the opposition, havo long been
working openly for active- participation
In the war. In fact, the pro-German
party, headed hy M. Marghlloman and
M. Carp, I only a small minority of tho
population.
Rumanian participation In the war
would throw against tho Teuton force
CoHtlHiMd on ficoa4 Pag.
In tit 4 nii-l nil no eiAAi 111 11111 lllllll II IIIK I"-..t 111 IIHU 'M V
BULGARS CAPTURE
FORTS AT KAYALA
All Except One Occupied and
Port Closed to Allies
Greece Angry.
Taws, Aug. 27. The Bulgars have
occupied all but one of the Greek forts
about Kavala, the Important Greek port
on the sEgean tioa, the War Ofllco an
nounced officially to-night, Tho town of
Kavala has not been entered.
On Friday two British monitors and
a cruiser steamed Into tho Gulf of Krf
vala and bombarded the forts, on which
tho red, white and green flag of Bul
garia had replaced tho blue and white
of Greece,
The occupation of the Kavala forts
secures for the 11 ul gars a valuable port
on the Kgean, but most of all presents
an obstacle to any possible landing of
allied troops there nna virtually puts
Into the hands of Bulgaria the princi
pal city of northeastern Orceoe, whloh
Bulgaria covets.
News of the taking of the Kavala
forts by the Hulgars has caused more
Indignation among the Greeks than any
act of aggression their enemies of the
north have committed, unless It be the
wldng out of the Greek garrison nt
Seres. The .Greeks can hardly bo per
suaded by King Constantlne or anybody
else that Bulgaria, once securely In pos
session of Kavala, will ever return it to
Greece.
Another Itulgnr Invasion.
The Invasion of Albania from the
east by another Hulgar column Is an
nounced also lu the ollk'Utl statement
Issued from Sofia yesterday and tele
graphed here. This column marched
south from Oohrlda Lake, on the border
between Serbia and Albania, nnd cap
tured the town of Malik, which Is on the
River Dcvol, ton miles within the border
Iwttteen Greece and Albania.
Malik Is hoenty tulles northeast of
tno .vlbaiiiau pun "f Av'.r.r.a, which
occupied by the Italians. Fighting there
has been reported recently, and a few
days ago tho Italians occupied com
manding positions on the Adriatic shore.
Evidently warfare between Italians and
Hulgars Is In sight. Mot of the troops
occupying northern Albania aro believed i
to be. .ustrlans,
Plcntv of hot fighting between Bul
gars and Serbs and fPUio. patrol .fighting
and' nrtlllery tiomhanlment lietwe'en tho
British and the Franch anil their Hulgar
fOes are reported In tho various omclai
statements, which conflict somewhat,
JIoi(. Qf 1C nhtlng Is occurring upon
a nalkl w,ero tho Hulgars are. push-
Ing forward into Greek territory
rupled bv small detachments of the
Allies. Tho main attack at tho centre
has not developed.
At the eastern end of the line, about
the River Struma, the French olllclal re
port mentions only artillery bombard
ments of enemy positions. In which a
Bulgarian battalion was caught and
wiped out. The Bulgars claim, however,
that their left wing has occupied most
of the Kgcaii coast about Kavala.
British Itetreat Itrportrd.
British troops, they say, retreated In
the direction of Orfano and Tschavazl.
and tho Bulgars occupied a line of four
villages before the British position. Tills
would place the British with their backs
to tho lower Struma, for Orfano Is on the
.llgan coast, near tho mouth of tho
Struma, but cast of It. Consequently,
the Allies apparently have not yet been
driven over tho river and have It as a
natural defence to a Hulgar advance
from Kavala.
, l, mc
On the western flank the French
,talemcnt of to-day and last night claim
niCcesses for the Serbians In very severe
mating. Near Ia)n Ostrovn the ngntingf
u particularly desperate. The Hulgars
lla" advanced several times to attack
proved their superiority. West of Lake
Ostrovo the Serlis have made slight ad
vances, and the Hulgars are suffering
, ,lril lusscn. in nun. to one .rrncil .nu
,.. ilfa(, af(fr fln a(tuc(i J,outh (f hn
heavy losses. In front of one trench 200
lake small skirmishes ended In the Serbs'
f.iv or.
West of the centre and of tho Vardar.
whero the main nlllnl attack will be
made, tho Hulgars attacked tho Serbian
positions with great violence, and were
repulsed. Northwest of Kukurug they
mado flvo ttrong attacks Usm Serb
J trenches In quick succession
i );ln artillery broke them
The Serb-
ry broke them up here, ns
elsewhere.
The Bulgars claim that Serb nttneks
toward the village of Bahavn, lu the
MoRlenltsa Valley, wero again beaten
back, and nl... claim other smaller sue
cesses nt various points.
Russian seaplanes raided Varna, the
Hulsarlan port on the Black Sea, jester
day, according to the olllclal statement
from IVtrograd. Bombs were dropped
on buildings, harbor nnd anti-aircraft
htttcrlrs, and the Russian aviators ie
ported tliat n ship In the harbor and
senile port works were struck nnd caught
tire,
Tho Bulcars say the seaplanes were
up too far to do any real damage.
PRESSURE ON ZAIMIS.
Allies Envoy Prod Hint
on the
Hulgar Invasion.
ATlirs'S, Aug. 21, via I.ondon Aug,
28 (delayed). The French nnd British
Ministers asked Premier Zalns this
evening how far tho Greek Government
purposed to countenance 'the Bulgarian
advanco in Macedonia without resistance,
pointing out that It would be of no mil
itary Interest to tho Kutente Powers to
defend central Thessaly from Invasion,
as Salonlca. was supplied from the sea
and could not be cut off by land.
The embarrassment of tho Greek Gov
ernment grows hourly In tho face of
popular resentment aganlst the Bulga
rian Invasion. Tho Venlzcllst otgans
criticise tho Inaction of the Government,
tne Ciefiin declaring that the hour has
como for action similar to Uiat taken
In 1909.
M. Pachltch, former Ssrblan Pramler,
his arrived btrt on Uli way to Salonlca.
t-erhian positions west and soiunwest or flKht against guns, and lie Is drafting
BRITISH WEDGE PUT
DEEPER ON SOMME
Two Hundred Yards Moro of
Trenches Taken and Kink
in Lino Filled.
London-, Aug. 27. Still nearer to Flers
the British pushed their wedgo north of
the Sommo last evening, when, shifting
the point of attack from Thlepval, a few
miles southeast, they took 200 yards of
a aerman trench north of Bazcntlti-lc-Petit.
There was n machine gun In the trench,
and the British sent that back n it
trophy. The new advance fills In n kink
between two salients of the British line
nt the Foureaux Wood on tho north and
the Delvlllo Wood on the south, but It
also marks an advanco toward tho vil
lage of Flers, on the road from Longue
val to Hapaiime, the British objective.
Tho Germans shelled tho British
trenches near Uethune, north of the
Sommc front, again to-day, ns they did
yesterday, but made no attack. The
British heavy artillery returned the lire,
reaching railway stations nnd barracks
far behind the German trenches.
On the French part of tne Somme
front rain fell so steadily that little
could be done. In other sectors the Ger
mans delivered moro of the scattered ut
tacks with nhlch they have tried to
divert attention from the Somme, but
ut Verdun, In Ixrralne and In the Aprc
mont forest they wero beaten back.
The German olllclal statement, tele
graphed here from Berlin, denies nil the
gains about Thlepval announced by tho
British War Otllce and described In de
tall by corresnondents nt the front. They
say the fighting was desperate, but the
British were rvpuved.
The German statement says tho
French attacked between Mauiepas und
Clery with flame throwers, an Inven
tion of German frlshtfulnes'", but were
repulsed.
FIGHT FOR THIEPVAL.
T-
Cireatrst Gnu Hurl of Western
Front Kxpeetrd Soon.
BfiriaX Cable vtr(ri M Tan Sl
I.ONIMIN', Aug. 27. Thri correspondent
of tho hitilu VtoonMe with the British
armies in France telegraphs ns follows:
It rems t me prnbablo that the
enemy will make a big cIToit to check
out continued advances along tho ridge
from Thlepval to High Wood (Fouicaux
Wood), and especially to icsctie Thlep
val Itself from Its Impending fate.
I "The position our troop. have gained
oy aiuue.1. iwo muiutiM iiKmin:
of t lie
most hemic kind has put the enemy at ii toward I'r.ince liecaii"e of I'lench Inter
tremendous dlsailvtange from tho point ventlon In northern Africa, wheio Italy
of view of artlllerv observation, which Is nmuuioiis. it was; said that Italy
nil Important In such warfar of .irtillry ""' cither to light Austria or unite with
as Is this . i l'l "" the safer course.
"(in the ground In front of us now, be-1 Ralj's icasnns for lefuslng to it id
yond the windmill and the swlfh line. Autrl.i and Germany wen. that Austria,
the German battalions are lu an unten- m "rr ultimatum to S. tbl.i. acted with
able position. If our attack Is piessed ' 'ut consulting Italy, as she was bound
on. until thev fall back m.on what is ' '"' by tho treaty, and menaced Italy's
known as the Fleis line, more than :'.."0
ds ! hind MartlnpulWi mid High
Wood, Meanwhile their present line of
defence Is open to our bombardments, so
the t'uemy's casualties must be very
heavy. As we know, the moral" of the
Germans crouching miserably In these
shell craters and ruins Is badly shaken.
"It is obvious that tho Herman head
nnarters st.itf 1eull7.es tlie irr.ivitv of this
position and st ite of affairs and Is en-'
deavorlng to organiz" a method of de
fence by attack which will stop or check
the Hiltlsh advance.
"The Germans are probably too
shrewd to believe. thlK can be done by
bringing up freh loops to leplaco thn-e
worn out and nerve vvtacked who now
stand before tho British lines. Fresh
troops or old troops, they are food fsr
ur guns, the guns that always arc
greedy for them
-It .s only by guns that the enemy can
ported by them.'
HUNGARY WORRIES AUSTRIA.
Emperor Itcfi.sis to Yield to Ue
innnd for Coalition nlilnrl.
Lonpov, Aug. 27. The ilceopmentH
In tho Hilkans appear to be causing
perturbation In Austria-Hungary, ac
cmillug to advices tece'ved hele from
Hern, Switzci land. These advices say
there Is a serlniw political cilsls In
Hungary, the opposition leaders having
demanded a coalition Cabinet, which
demand the Kmpcior has icfused tn
comply with.
In addition tn all night sittings ef
the Hungarian Chamber, the despatches
ndd, nil Austrian Cabinet council sat
for eight hours Tluus-iay and sK hours
Friday, and the Hungarian Cabinet for
nine houiri Thuisday and ten hours
Friday.
KAISER POSTPONES PENALTIES.
Report Thnt Germany and France
lime Reciprocal Aurrcmciit.
lH.lit.IN. AlW. 27 (By wireless In S.ty.
villi-). The following ntlkl.it statement
vvjs Issued here to-day:
"The German llnyeror has ordered
postponement until after tho war of the
execution of nil sentences Imposed for
the punishment of French pilMitiets. both
civilian and military, nn account of nets
committed up to September 1 of thin
yenr."
The Overseas News Agency adds;
"Tlio newrjiapers stale that this action
was taken ns a icsult of n icc'pioeal
agreement with the French Government."
Girl Hurt Savins Child.
TMna Klavvlng. 3 years old, was play
ing In the street lu front of her pa.
rents' lintue, &'! West llMb street, yes.
terday and ran lu front of an nppioaeh.
Ing rrosstowu i's.r. Miss Katherlne
Freudenfeld of .M0 West Lllst street
tried to drag the child off tho tracks.
Both of them were struck.
At St. Lawrence Hospllnl It wns said
both of them will be entirely well with-
la a ww daya.
Berlin Gets Formal Dccla
ration Through Swiss
Government.
TO-DAY SET AS DATE
OF NEW HOSTILITIES
Action Was Looked For
Since Entente Conference
Held in Tails.
INTERNED SHIPS ARK
VALUED AT :JO,0()0,000
Rome Government Recent
ly Denounced Commer
cial Agreement.
ItoMB, Aug. 27, 6 P. M. Italy to-day
declared war on Germany.
Bi:iti.t.v, by wireless to Sayvllle, Aug.
2". The following olllclal announce
ment was made hero to-day:
"Tho Italian Government has Ok-
clared through the Swiss Government
that It considers Itself fnun August 28
at war with Germany."
WAS LONG EXPECTED.
Italy Grnilunlly lirnnn Into Closer
Relation Willi Alllrs.
Almost since tho beginning of the war.
In August uf I'll l. It has seemed likely
thru Italy would nun day be lit war with
buth her foimer ulllcx. Ausiiia nnd Ger
many. Since her declaration of war
upon Au-lrla-Iliinga.y lu .May of 1!G3
It has seemed Inevitable.
When the war began, with Austria
Hungary's menace of Serbia, Italy ile
rlaiod her neutrality, giving ns her
reasons that the t rms of the Triple Al
liance did nut necessitate her entering
the war.
This alliance, consummated In l'S'J,
was one of strange bedfellows. It bound
together Italy nnd Austria, as deadly
iiieinlcs u I'raiuo nnd Germany over
wci.r itniy wiik di.ivvn to Germany not
lummy, inn ,y i. ini r.irv aii'.-tgiiii'hm
' "'"''"sts n tin, Balkans. Thn Triple
Alllanie, Italy maintained, was defen
sive, and none of lis tbri components
could involve the others in war without
pievioiis agreement.
; t'ntil May 22, 1!1.1. Italy remained
reiitial. but then popular agitation and
I Austria's lefusal t cede the Trentlnn
land part of Trieste, "Italia liiedenta,"
i as well as Austrian delays in ti gotlatlons
which Italy misttusted, led per to de
clare war iihiii the dual inon.iicby. Italy
had pieviously ihnouncul the Tiiple Al
l.anco and dc.laful it no longer binding.
At
Pence
Willi Germany.
This gave rl:o to ;i pet ull.ir t'tate of
nflalrs, Italy waged war upon Aus
tin, li.vail.'.l Ails.tli.in tcrritorv and be.
I cam., gradually closer and closer to Great
! Hrltnlti, Fiance and Itussl i, win. were
nglting i iciniany. Yet July was at
pi ace w Itli e ierinany.
Another anomaly was that Gcimauy
nnd Italy, iilthough nt peace, had sev
cied diplomatic irl.itlons, tin tho day
following Italy's eli:lmatlon of war upon
AU'tila Prince von Huelow and his staff
ilcp.ii ted from Home. Prince von Hue
low had hi en sent by i.eiiuany us n,
sivial envoy to Italy to prevent her
entering the war against ii t many or
Austt'a. Two days after he left Roma
for Hi rlln IPcanlo liollatl, the Italian
Ambassador thcie, went back to Rome.
It was because f t,:s tint It ily, hav
ing 1 10 diplomatic repiocMatlvn in Her
tin, nsl.cd Svvltreilanel, u neutral, to
transm.t In r declaration of war.
As tho war went on nnd Paly beenmn
Indebted to her allies for assistance, of
many kinds in her war against but ono
of their enemies their claim upon her
came stronger. At llie same time tho
Allies, vvcio becoming continually closer
knit, wire becoming morn nnd morn a
uiiIkii of Powers to crush Germany, less
nnd less n rather in.-., a'liance.
Italy had n place In their ciilinel. jet
she was nut truly one of them, lor shn
bad lint divlairil war upon thn grcntest
of their enemies, Hi runny. Last Feb
i u.it y when the Allies met m council In
Pails It was said lint Italy wan asked
why she was not al war with Germany.
She had nltcady siibs.vrlbe.1 in the samn
ngr.iinent as the lest, not to i oucllide a
sepillilte pe.uv, but lie! position IllllOllg
them wa seemingly ha.f hearted.
Itnly Sclfcs Gerionii ships.
Very soon after Hie confi icin e Italy
In' Ran that si'iles of more or Ii s overt
nets that he who ran could lead as signs
that she would go to war with Germany
whenever he,- allies deemeil bust on
!'. binary 2li Italy i eiiilMtlonei ihlrtv
M'jT eif the thllt.v.seven Geiman steam
ships Interned In Italian ports. Thn
object was avowedly to help meet the
Allies' need for ships, The total value,
of the Interned ship.! was estimated at
830,000,0110,
GeiMiany evpressed Indignation and
called attention to a special tiealy that
Prince venf Huelow hail succeeded In
negotiating with Italy befom sim de.
clared war "u Austria. This treaty as
1 mutual pledge to tespect tlie subjects
and property of either lu thn boundaries
of the other.
This agreement was abrogated by
Italy on July in. The olllclal rei..ns
gl'vn wcie that while. Italy was giving
Geiman subjects every conlieiatlon
Germany was Heating Italians, hi her
borders as If the nations wee nt war,
hindering reservists te'uin.ng ..mo nnd
holding up funds sent o lullan
K.uly this mouth Italy also ilcuminceil
thn German-Italian .ommcrcui treitv
of 111. This ticaty would not buy
Jcaplred until 1917, and according to Ita
