WEATHER.
Partly cloudy tonight and tomorrow;
moderate temperature; light northwest
winds.
Temperature for twenty-four hours
ending 2 p.m.: Highest. 92. at 4 p.m.
yesterday; lowest. 66. at 5:30 a.m. today.
Full report on page eleven.
CLOSING NEW YORK STOCKS PAGE 11.
1
"From Prett to Home
Within the Horn"
Sworn Wet Circulation, Month ot July.
1?1?. Dally Awrtfe, 7?32?i Snnday, MUS70.
No. 29,424.
WASHINGTON, D. C., MONDAY, AUGUST 28, 1916-FOITKTEEN PAGES.
?*
ONE CENT.
RUMANIA NOW AT WAR
WITH AUSTRIA-HUNGARY;
BIG ARMY IS MOBILIZED
v
Fighting Already Has Begun on the Trans
sylvania Frontier, According to a
Berlin Announcement.,.
,
OPENS ROAD FOR RUSSIAN TROOPS
TO MOVE SOUTH ALONG THE DANUBE
Germany Has Declared War Against Romania, and Bulgaria and Turkey
Are Expected to Follow?Makes Campaign in Balkans
of Overshadowing Importance.
BERLIN, August 28, via London, 7105 p.m.?Germany has
declared war on Rumania.
BERLIN, August 28, via London, 5:30 p.m.?Fighting has
begun between Rumanian and Teutonic troops on the Transsyl
vanian frontier, the official announcement of today indicates.
The statement says Rumanians have been taken prisoner.
BERLIN, Atigust 28, via London, 1145 p.m.?Rumania declared
war on Austria-Hungary Sunday evening, it is announced officially
here. The announcement follows:
"The Rumanian government yesterday evening declared war on
1 ustria-Hungary.
"The federal council has been convoked for an immediate sit
ting."
LONDON, August 28, 2 147 p.m.?Germany probably will declare
?ir on Rumania within twenty-fqur hours, after which Turkey and
ulgaria are expected to do likewise, according to a dispatch from
he Hague to the Exchange Telegraph Company.
The dispatch from The Hague says the German federal council
x-t this morning on receipt of the news of Rumania's declaration of
ar against Austria.
The Rumanian legation in Berlin is being guarded by the police,
ese advices say, as stones were thrown through the windows of
ie Italian embassy in Berlin yesterday.
A later message from the sjime source says word has been re
ived from Berlin that the German government will hand his pass
?rts to the Rumanian minister today.
Berlin Profoundly Impressed,
'taly's declaration of war against Ger
any and the declaration of war by Ru
mania agaiiist Austria-Hungary have j
.' used a most profound impression iif the i
i
lerman capital, says a dispatch from
"Berlin, by way of The Hague, to the Ex
lange Telegraph Company.
The Berlin newspapers, the dispatch
(Ids, express themselves bitterly against
Gottlieb von Jagow, the German foreign
mister, and Dr. Alfred Zimmerman, the
.der secretary for foreign affairs, those
? itesmen being considered by the jour
,.ls to be partly responsible, for what is
lared to be Germany's diplomatic de
al. ?
Political Crisis in Hungary.
T.w developments in the Balkans ap
?;*.r to be causing perturbation in Aus
- Hungary*, according to advices receiv
? lure from Bern, Switzerland. These
? ..ices say there is a serious political
-is in Hungary, the opposition leaders
demanded a coalition cabinet,
Inch the emperor has denied.
!n addition to all-night sittings of the
. igarian chamber, the dispatches add,
? Austrian cabinet council sat for eight
Lours Thursday and six hours Friday
i:d the Hungarian cabinet for nine hours
Thursday and ten hours Friday.
Enthusiasm in London.
Rumania's declaration of war, while
not unexpected, aroused the greatest
enthusiasm ;n London. Special editions
of the newspapers announcing the event
were bought eagerly by crowds on the
streets.
The meeting of the Rumanian crown
council, at which the decision was
reached, was held at the Controceni
palate. King Ferdinand presided and
the session v. as prolonged over se\cral
day;-. The council consists of nineteen
members, of whom it is believed four
to six opposed intervention.
Besides con: erring with the crown
council with whom the final decision
re>t'-d. King Ferdinand had prolonged
conferences with the leaders of all
Rumanian political parties, including
those favorable to intervention and
those who had be<-n the strongest sup
porters of Rumania continuing her neu
trality
The Rumanian military officers had
diseuss'-d for home days what probably
would be the first step taken when war
was declared and had dismissed all
alien employes, many of whom were
Germans. An especially large number
of Germans were employed in the tech
nical services.
Gen. Averescu to Command.
Gen. Averescu, former minister of war,
it is said, will have chief command o*'
the Rumanian army. The Bucharest
newspaper Adeverul, commenting on the
crown council meeting, said:
"At last the decisive hour has struck.
Events have dictated to the government j
intervention and the realisation of Ru
mania's national claims. The king, in
view of recent events, like the late
King Carlos, convoked the crown coun
cil. The politicians when they leave
it will have to bow to its decision.
The union of all parties must be ef
fected before the greatness of the
cause."
The Rumanian minister at Vienna
called at Ball Platz yesterday and
[?received his passports, says a tele
gram received by the Exchange Tele
graph Company today from the Aus
trian capital by way of The Hague.
The minister is leaving Vienna today
for Bucharest by special train.
i The newspapers of Vienna appear
with large blank spaces, the message
adds, showing that all articles dealing
with Rumania have been censored.
Campaign Probably Planned.
No indications have been received
thus far of the immediate effect on the
! military situation in the Balkans, which
\ now becomes of preponderant impor
S tance. or of the moves doubtless already
j inaugurated by Rumania and by her
? opponent, which has been making
i preparations for this eventuality. It is
to be expected Rumania will follow a
plan of campaign mapped out by the
high council of the entente powers,
whether against Austria-Hungary or
Bulgaria or both. An indication that
Rumania moved in accordance with a
predetermined plan of the entente al
lies is found in the fact that her dec
laration of war was made the same
I day as Italy's declaration against Ger
! many.
An official announcement from Berlin
? says thiit on receipt of the news of Ru
j mania's action the federal council was
I called for an immediate session. This
I may forecast^ declaration of war by
' Germany against Rumania. The con
stitution of the German empire stipu
; lates that the emperor may declare war
if defensive, but when war is not mere
ly defensive he must have the consent
1 of the bundesrath or federal council.
Rumanian Note Presented.
AMSTERDAM, August 28, via J^ondon,
3:15 p.m.?The note declaring that
Rumania from 9 o'clock Sunday even
ing considered herself In a state of
war with Austria-Hungary was pre
sented to the Austro-Hungarian foreign
minister last night by the Rumanian
] minister at Vienna, who personally
I visited the ministry of foreign affairs,
j according to a dispatch received here
| today from the Austrian capital,
i Rumania's decision to.enter the war
1 was reached at a meeting of the crown
I council held at Bucharest yesterday
morning, says a dispatch from Geneva.
RUMANIA FOURTEENTH NATION
TO ENTER GREAT WORLD WAR
Rumania is the fourteenth nation to
Join in the war. Her intervention
either on the side of the entente allies
or the central powers has been awaited
with symptoms of concern by both
Since the beginning of the great con
flict This is due not entirely to Ru- "
mania's military strength, but also to !
the strategic advantages of her ge<^- j
graphical position and the fact that ?
her entry into the struggle-opens to j
the Russian army a gateway through (
Rumania to attack the Bulgarians j
from the north, while the allied army
having its base at Saloniki attacks
them and their German allies from
the south.
Nevertheless, Rumania's military
strength is by no means inconsiderable.
The country has a population of 6,800,
?00, and her army has been estimated
at D 80.000. It often has been described
as one of the most thoroughly equipped
and disciplined armies in Europe, but
recent information from Bucharest
thrown some doubt upon its quality.
Irately it has been stated that Ru
manian officers are ill-trained and un
disciplined, that Rumania has no heavy
artillery and that its flying service is
inferior.
Some advocates of Rumania's par
ticipation in the war have asserted
that she could mobilize as many as
1,000,000 men. The mobilization of her
army h-is been in progress for months
and a few days ago was reported to be
complete.
Motives Inspiring Bumanla.
The motive Which prompt* Rumania
to enter the war Is the satisfaction of
her "national aspiration*," described by
Take Jonescu, the Rumanian liberal
leader, as the "policy of national in
stinct." Concisely, thl* mean* national
expansion. In the ?outhern half of
(Continued on Second Pas*.)
Colorado Promises to Be Good
Battleground Between Re
publicans and Democrats.
INFLUX OF IMMIGRATION
ENTERS INTO ESTIMATES
Careful Observers Talk About Plu
ralities as Low as 5,000 One
Way or the Other.
BY N. 0. MESSENGER.
DENVER, Col., August 28.?
Colorado promises to be good
fighting ground between the re
publicans and the democrats on
both the national and state tickets.
Careful observers talk about plurali
ties as low as 5,000 one way or the
other. The drift of major public opin
ion at this time is believed to be to
ward the republican national ticket.
Sentiment is not crystallizing between
the parties on the state ticket, as a
contest over the republican guberna
torial nomination is on, to be deter
mined by primaries September 12. The
local claim that Colorado will go re
publican on the presidency, which is
supported in several independent and
qualified quarters, discards the figures
of the 1912 election for comparison and
considers present conditions. In 1912
the combined Taft and Roosevelt vote
was 16,000 in excess of the Wilson vote.
Since 1912 there has been a great in
flux of emigration into Colorado, esti
I mated as high as 200,000, and a great
ideal of it from, republican states. No
i estimate is at hand as to the return of
the progressives, but there are no out
ward signs of progressive revolt, and
the republicans expect to have the
support of the great bulk of the Roose
velt vote of fourNyears ago.
Colorado Wants Protection.
j Protective tariff sand dissatisfaction
I with the democratic administration's
foreign policy are depended upon by
the republicans to put them across the
goal line. Colora-ip wants protection
for her beet sugar, lead, wool and cat
tle. The tariff will be an important is
sue once the campaign gets under way.
The German vote is negligible in vol
j ume and conceded to the republicans.
More important to them is the fact
that the Irish vote, which 4s consider
able in the mining regions, is disaffect
ed to the democratic national ticket on
account of Mexican church troubles,
laid to the administration, and the ad
ministration's alleged favoritism to
Great Britain in the liuropean wafT"'
Democrats admit that this disaffection*
exists, and are concerned over It.
There is no lack of confidence, how
ever, among the democratic managers
that they will carry the state for Presi
dent Wilson, notwithstanding visible
handicaps. They declare the tariff is
sue will be submerged in the general
prosperity and the record prices for
wool, cattle and lead. They count upon
the independent vote and the progres
sives finding the record of democratic
achievement and 'President Wilson's
course more attractive to progressive
sentiment than the promise of republi
can coalition.
Democrats Claim Labor Vote.
| The democrats claim that labor, with
the exception of disaffected Irish, will
! be for President Wilson in J;he main,
| and the republicans do not refute the
assertion with much heart. The demo
crats think the new population will
break even between the two parties and
j point to the fact that on the basis pf
the 1912 votf, if that is used, *0 per
; cent of the Roosevelt vote must return
to the republicans to insure republican
victory.
Democrats admit great unrest among
the people over the- Mexican situation
and concede that it is a sore spot, but
1 they depend upon the broader view of
i national questions to overcome the dis
1 satisfaction over Mexico. They believe,
in short, that the progressive sentiment
| of both parties tends to support of the
j administration on its record.
On the .state ticket the democrats, are
I united and without factional division for
j the first time in many years. They
have nominated as their candidate for
j governor Julitfe C. Gunter of the state
! supreme rourt. The republicans have
two candidates for the nomination,
| present Gov. Carlson, who seeks re
nomination, and Samuel D. Nicholson,
i a popular mining man.
j Carlson will he strong with the woman
i voters on account of his rigid enforce
: merit of the prohibition law, which the
women are determined to maintain,
j Carlson has made some enemies during
his incumbency with the rank and file,
and the contest will be close.
Denver Beception Gratifying.
Mr. Hughes was given a most gratify
ing reception in Denver, and the repub
licans -are mightily encouraged by it.
The grea* auditorium in which Bryan
was nominated for the presidency in
1908, was packed to standing-room ca
pacity, the audience estimated to num
ber 14,000. It was an intelligent audi
ence sympathetic and responsive, with
out being demonstrative or enthusiastic.
The speech did not invoke enthusiasm.
The candidate still is adhering to his
Dolicy of making an address along broad
lines and ignoring strtctly party issues.
When Mr- Hughes touched upon pro
tection he got the biggest hand of the
evening. Some of the local republicans
thought he would take the cue and
amplify, but he did not. He gave them
more talk on international arbitration
and civil service reform, to which they
listened with polite indifference, but
warmed up on the discussion of Mexico.
They have been fed upon Roosevelt and
other strong political pabulum out here
until general statesmanship rather palls
on them. It is an anomalous situation
that while reports come from the east
that Mr. Hughes Is being attacked for
descending to a low party level in his
speeches the main criticism of him by
republicans in the west has been that
he would not come close enough to the
ground to suit local demands.
Mr. Hughes is hoeing his own row,
without aid or suggestion from the na
tional management or the party leaders
in Congress. Up to this time there is
notable absence of "team work" be
tween the candidate and the party man
agement. Jn coming to Denver from
California the candidate came through
two states regarded as surely republi
can Utah and Wyoming, and one
classed as doubtful, with chances favor
ing the democrats, Nevada. Utah, of
course, goes with Vermont. Wyoming: is
conceded to be republican on the presi
dential ticket, but there is a fight over
the United States senatorship. Senator
Clarke is up for re-election, and for the
first time in many years finds that he
has a real content on his hands.
Gov. Kendrrck, the democratic ex
ecuti^e, made such a popular adminis
tratior.that: hU?
2faa?/?o^gea 8tatefinSgenatOmr. aand
he is rocking ^ _ f^iorVce
11 "xe v ad a| ^ lTe ah o t c,^ Cbu t
strong e^'^re^claimtngr,Vhe~rtate
sentiment, and are cla fl States
by a close v?\e * lose too. accord
senatorshlp willi outlook. Senator
intr to the presen f re-electlon, was
Pittman. who is up introduced Into
losing ?r?u"lResolution in behalf of
the Senate his resoi h partlally
Sir R0B?r hlm^ith the Irish vote. At
ffg,
-puBTtcttt candidal . campaigning
3**land. aft^}?^]aUn?'the election. In
ssars.*??~s?1as?* aa
S"?S?f??? ""
suffrage.
FAILTOAGREOND.C.
Senate and House Conferees Give No
Sign of Yielding?Bill May
Fail Entirely.
The conferees of the Senate and House
today disagreed over the items still in
controversy between the> two houses^ n
,he District appropriation bill. The
failure to agree will be reported to the
House tomorrow by Representat ve
Page of North Carolina, who has the
bill in charge in the House.
The conferees were In session only
about half an hour today. It soon be
came evident that the deadlock could
not be broken, neither side giving evi
dences of yielding. So an adjournment
was taken after the decision had been
reached lo repor^e'ort^e ^controverted
ft'envs" The Senate amendment str>k
trie out the House rider Abolishing the
l .Var d half plan was the mam stum
hnni block it is understood. The other
rn^n Items'In controversy are the pro
posed on intangible property and
the proposed reduction of the price of
gas.
Possibility of failure Greater.
Following the conference today, the
possibility of the District bill's falling
entirely seemed greater than at any
time heretofore. It was said Much will
depend upon the action of the House
on the report of the conferees tomor
row The Senate seems determined to
stand out for Its amendments, even to
the extent that the bill may fall unless
the amendments are agreed to.
The whip hand Is with the Senate, so
far as the half-and-half plan of appro
* ?. District is concerned,
priatlng bill fails and It becomes
since if the resolution con
necessary to P^,8 Jati0n law of last
tln for the Present fiscal year the
year for ine f sU1, wlll be operative,
half-and-half P actlon can this law
A failure of the bill, how
be changed lt ln postponing many
needed improvements in various depart
ments of the District government.
To Bring Up Conference Beport.
ntntlve '?age, chairman of the i
'?epre'; " charge of the District |
,U oo!rt?tlo? bill on the House side.
aIm endeavor to bring up the confer
end House tomorrow
ence report that the Houge
and report a continuance
conferees mu?ent wlth the Senate op
of tl^,?,rict appropriation bill.
the Diatrlct PP rrow he expects
If twSe House to instruct him a. to
to. ask the H u be a8 to the re
wftat. its ^ the half-a^d-half and the
tentlon of: tne lmp0slng a tax upon
Senate amen j property and upon
the'other matters which have caused a
disagreement t before the House
If th.? ?mtfosslble to consider the Dls
make 11 tomorrow. Representative
trlct ^"eraBk that the House meet
Pag? W.linesday for the sole purpose
afai?ttung the District appropriation
2m Representative Page today intl
blll; j. VS?. he did not expect an agree
mated that he hed wlth the Senate
ment coula be h uld go on record
SSnxp^lU oplMon ol the Impor
tant matter at issua.
WOULD PURCHASE
1LKWS' MEREST
McLean Estate Asks Court to
Provide Means foe Buying j
Washington Post Stock.
Application for permission of the court j
to purchase for $469,800 the 270 shares of
the stock of the Washington Post Com
pany belonging to John F. Wilkin? was ,
made to the District Supreme Court to- j
day by the American Security and Trust j
Company as executor of the estate of the j
late John R. McLean.
Mr. McLean owned 320 shares of the
stock. The purchase of the Wilkins in- |
{ terest would make the estate practically !
the owner of the paper, only ten shares
j being outstanding.
Court Asked to Provide Means.
The court is asked to authorize the
sale by the executor of United States
! bonds amounting to $500,000, belonging to
: the estate, to provide funds for the pur
j chase of the Wilkins interest. The trust j
company has only $144,000 in cash belong- j
! ing to the estate, the court is told, and <
must dispose of some investments to j
complete the purchase.
After reciting to the court the his
tory of the purchase by John R. Mc;
Lean, in 1905, of one-half of the stock
then owned by John F. Wilkins, the
trust company explains that the con
tract of purchase included an agree
ment by which, at the death of Mr.
McLean or Mr. Wilkins, the survivor
might have an option of purchase of
the other interest.
Wilkins Ready to Buy or Sell.
Mr. Wilkins has offer%d either to buy
Mr. McLean's interest or to sell his
own at $1,740 per share. The par value
of the stock is $100. Edward B. Mc
Lean, the son, and Francis T. Homer,
the adviser, declined to consent to a
sale of the McLean Interest.
Mr. McLean, according to the peti
tion, paid more than $2,500 per share
for the 320 shares owned by him. The
executor is disinclined to sell for $1,740
per share. The trust company, there
fore, decided to purchase for the es
tate'the other interest.
The figures disclosed in the petition
indicate a valuation of the Post at
$1,500,000 at the time of the acquisi
tion by Mr. McLean of an interest in
the publication. The price paid- by
him for his shares totaled $S33,816.
Attorneys Joseph J. Darlington and
Frank J. Hogan filed the petition.
MRS. McADOO HOLDS HER OWN.
President'* Daughter, HI With Ty
phoid, No Better, No Worse.
SPRING LAKE, N. J.. August 28.?The j
conditio^ of Mrs. William O. McAdoo, j
daughter of President Wilson, was un- I
changed today. It was stated by CoL Wll- j
11am Gray Schauffler, attending physician. ;
"Mrs. McAdoo Is neither better nor i
worse," Dr. Schauffler said. "She had :
a comfortable night, and Is doing as J
well as can be expected." ;
Mrs. McAdoo Is ill with typhoid fever, j
RESULTS OF WAR GAME. J j
Shows Enemy Fleet Conld Land
Troops, Says Admiral Knight.
NEWPORT, B. I.. August 28.?The
war game Just completed by the United
states Navy, proved that under fairly
favorable weather conditions an at
tacking fleet has an excellent chance
to land troops within wenty miles of
New York, Rear Admiral Austin M.
Knight declared last night. "Nothing
of this sort would have been possible,"
he said, "If the defending Blue fleet
had had an efficient scooting foree."
Admiral Knight was umpire la the
i .;J
game, which ended Saturday in the
virtual annihilation of the Blue or de
fending fleet. Throughout the week,
he said, the weather was misty, and
with a visibility rarely exceeding three
or four miles. This condition is char
acteristic of the Atlantic coast at this
time of year, and should be reckoned
with in future plans of naval strategy,
he said.
National Conference on Taxation.
INDIANAPOLIS, Ind.. August 28.?
The tenth national conference on taxa
tion opened here today with a large at
tendance.- The first formal session was
to be held this afternoon when Gov.
Ralston was to deliver the address of
welcome. The object of the associa
tion is to cause the enactment of uni
form taxation laws for the state and
nation. The conference will adjourn
Thursday evening.
FLEURY ATTACK HALTED
BY FRENCH OPPOSITION
| London Claims Further Progress for
the British on the Somme
Front.
PARIS, August 28, noon.?The Ger
mans made several attacks on the
French positions at Fleury last night,
but were repulsed, says today's an
nouncement of the war office.
There was a further development
Saturday night of the German tactics
observed recently of making scattered
thrust?Jilong various parts of the front.
Three times the Germans attacked the
Vaux-Chapitre wood, northeast of Ver
dun. They also delivered an assault in
Apremont forest, in Lorraine. In each
case, the war office announced, they
were repulsed.
Further .British Progress.
LONDON, August 28. 4:25 p.m. No
large actions on the Somme front are
reported in the official announcement of
today, although the British made further
progress east of Delville wood.
' The British struck a blow Saturday
night in the vicinity of Bazentin-Le
Petit, some four miles southwest of
Thiepva' where the heaviest fighting
has been in progress' recently. A war
office report says the British took 200
yards of a German trench and captured
one machine gun.
Berlin Says Attacks Failed.
BERLIN, August 28, via London, 5:32
p.m.?British and French troops made
repeated attacks on the German posi
tions last night in the region of the
River Somme on the western front, says j
the official statement issued today by
the German army headquarters staff. '
The attacks failed, the statement says !
partly after hand-to-hand fighting and
partly on account of the German
counter attacks.
A semi-official announcement says
that between February 21 and iuly 20
there were engaged in the Verdun sec
tor sixty-six French divisions, nearly
800,00u men. In the battle of the
Somme, the announcement says, the
French have twenty-three divisions and
"the British thirty-seven.
Croker.Coming Here for Treatment.
LONDON, August 28, 11:50 a.m.?Dub
lin correspondents report that Richard
Croker, formerly leader of Tammany
Hall, is retiring from the turf tem
porarily and is going to the United
States on account of the condition of
his eyes, which require expert atten
tion. Mr. Croker won his latest race
Saturday when Banshee, starting at
20 to 1, captured the Phoenix plate
worth ?1.500.
* Hope to Settle Irish Question.
LONDON. August 28. 11:66 a.m.
Strong efforts are to be made during
the parliamentary recess for resumption
of negotiations for settlement of the
Irish question, according to reports In
Irish political circles. It 4s understood
both the unionist and nationalist lead
ers are Inclined to regard these efforts
sympatiptlcally.
Commissioners Receive Pro
posed New Regulations Which
Health Officer Opposes.
WORK OF THE NATION'S
EXPERTS ON HEALTH
Dr. Woodward Says to Avoid Infan
tile Paralysis Cleanliness of
Highest Type Is Necessary.
The District Commissioners are In a
quandary concerning: the adoption of
preventive measures against spread of
| infantile paralysis as the result of re
' celving from Health Officer Woodward
I today proposed new regulations, which
were drafted and recommended by that
official because they meet the views of
a majority of the nation's health ex
perts, but which do not receive his per
sonal indorsement.
The suggested regulations are In sub
stantial compliance with the standard
minimum requirements formulated and
adopted by the conference of state and
federal health officers held under the
auspices of the public health service
August 18.
! Seventeen typewritten pages are em
j ployed for setting forth the proposed
rules, while Dr. Woodward utilizes
seven additional pages in presenting
reasons why he does not believe they
will be effective in preventing spread of
I infantile paralysis in *the District ma
S terially, if at all.
Commissioners Must Decide.
The Commissioners, therefore, must
decide whether to adopt the regula
tions, which are recommended by Dr.
i Woodward, but not personally ap
proved' by that official, or allqw the
present regulations to stand. Modifica
tion of the regulations is another al
ternative suggested.
Corporation Counsel Syme has been
asked for an opinion, and it is possi
ble that the public will be given an
opportunity to express itself on the
subject at a hearing before the Com
missioners before final action is taken.
Besides incorporating the principal
requirements of the existing regula
tions, the proposed body of laws con
tains some new and drastic require
ments.
For example, they will require the
quarantining on the premises for a pe
riod of six weeks of all persons in an
infected household. Under the present
regulations, only the patient is isolated,
though persons coming in contact with
a patient are required to observe well
defined precautions. * . _? -
Another departure from exlstlDf i*w
requires the placarding of infected
premises. Still another provides that
report shall be made to the health of
ficer, under certain conditions, of all
persons under sixteen years of age
coming Into the District from places
which the public health service may
report as potential sources of infection
to the District.
Explains His Position.
In explaining his position in the mat
I ter. Dr. Woodward points out that th?
recommendations not only are based
on the views of a considerable major
ity of those who attended the state
and federal conference, but as well on
the views of representative local phy
sicians who conferred with the health
officer last week in regard to their
formulation.
The fact that the regulations are
recommended though not appro\e(T by
him is cleared up by Dr. Woodward in
the statement that, from an adminis
trative standpoint, the community is
entitled to have the benefit of the ex
perience and judgment of the major
ity of those qualified to speak in the
matter rather than to be "bound by
the experience and judgment of one
man, even though he be the health ot
' Continuing. Dr. Woodward says that
the proposed regulations may, in his
judgment, by reason of their very vigor
materially contribute to tl.e spread of
the disease. . ? ..
"The grave hardship and the expense
that will be imposed by these regula
tions upon any family in which a case
of ooliomvelitis occurs will cause any
conscientious physician to pause long
before diagnosing any illness as pol
iomyelitis. The same causes will oper
ate in the minds of parents, perhaps
consciously and perhaps unconsciously,
to deter them from calling in phy
sicians in cases in which the ailment
seems slight, at least in cases in which
there is no paralysis."
Against Definite Quarantine Period.
Dr. Woodward also discusses what
he considers the futility of a definite
quarantine period. While the regula
tions propose a six-week quarantine,
the health officer points out that in an
investigation to determine the infectlv
ity of nine persons who had suffered
from the disease one was found to
have mouth secretions Infective in the
seventh month, another in the sixth
month and four in the fourth month
In other words, four of the nine patients
were infective for periods varying from
three to seven months after the onset of
the disease. "Even the most ardent ad
vocate of drastic regulations to prevent
the spread of poliomyelitis," he continues,
"would hardly advocate that all patients
be isolated for a period of seven months,
and yet there is no practical way for
measuring infectivity in every case before
the patient is released from quarantine."
Dr. Woodward's Opinions.
In summarizing his opinions Dr. Wood
ward says:
??It is best, it seems to me, that the
public should not be taught to rely upon
any regulations that may be promulgated
by official authority. The public should
understand that It is Impossible to locate
the sources from which poliomyelitis is
spread, and that It Is impossible to dis
cover the channels through which Infec
tion is carried ffom any such sources,
aven Iron* such as are known.
"Tli*? puouc anould understand that the
fight is a fight In the dark. 8he public
should be made to understand, and each
individual to feel, that the greatest safe
guard against Infection lies in personal
cleanliness of the highest type, of per
son of home, of store, of workshop and
of office. The habit of regarding every
Hick person as a possible source of In
fection is not sufficient, ljut the habit
must be cultivated of regarding every
nerson whatsoever as a source of in
action. and of doing everything possible
to avoid contact direct or Indirect,
through Insects or otherwise; when such
"ontact is of such a nature aa possibly
to carry matter of any kind whatsoever,
.?neclally the mucous secretions, from
person. well or sick, on to the
mucous membranes, or into the respira
tor* or digestive tracts of the person
(Continued on Fifth Page.)
IS IN LAST STAGES
AT WHITE HOUSE
President May Yet Have Coun
ter Plan to Exchange
With Executives.
ALL OTHER MEANS FAILING,
TO APPEAL TO CONGRESS
Will Confer Thii Afternoon With
Senate Steering Committee He
garding Strike Legislation. ^
STRIKE SITUATION IS SERIOUS
| Chief Magistrate Expected to Tell.
Senate and House Details of Ef
forts and to Ask Legis
lative Interference. I
At the conference between
President Wilson and the com
mittee of railroad chiefs at the
White House this afternoon,
starting at 2:30 o'clock, the ques
tion of whether there will be a
nation-wide strike hangs by a
thread.
The President is to confer with
the steering committee of the
Senate this afternoon regarding
strike legislation.
Congress has reconciled itself'
to the decision that there will not
be ar? early adjournment. The
entire railroad controversy is
likely to be thrown into Congress
for settlement.
Tentative plans are being made,
for a joint session, probably very;
soon,'' to be addressed by the
President. He will appeal, if.
necessary, for emergency-legisla
tion to meet the present strike
"condition."
Compulsory Arbitration.
That compulsory arbitration la a
probable result of the entire matter Is
the opinion today among those who
have been In closest touch with the
situation and the President's efforts
during the last two weeks to effect aft
adjustment through his personal media
tion. .
While the railroad presidents are con
ferring at the White House today, with
the understanding that they are to pre
sent a counter proposition as a reply to
the President's proposal for settlement,
there is an undercurrent of feeling that
the President knows the essentials of
?heir plan and has prepared anothep-ln
lubstitution for his earlier proposal.
If the President presents such a sug
gestion to the railroad executives they
vill retire to consider It. That is their
attitude?that they are open to earnest
consideration of any way of settlement
vhich will recognize arbitration.
May Be Up to Congress.
With the railway executives standing
Irm against conceding the eight-hour
Jay and the brotherhood leaders still
standing ou' against arbitrating It, the
'hope of preventing a tie-up of the
country's transportation systems seem,
ed to lie with Congress.
Unless a settlement of the contro
versy betweeen the- rallwwxi operators
and the railroad employes, or like
llhood of such a settlement develo
<iav the President will carry the whole
matter to Congress. The opinion was
confidently expressed by administra
tion leaders at the Capitol today.
Conferences among them and wltlj
President Wilson, which began last
nln-ht were continued today. The
President postponed his engagement .
with the railway executives from 10
o'clock this morning unt 1 2:30 o clock
this afternoon to give him more time
for conference with leaders of ,Con
gress.
Attitude of President.
The President. It is said today, has
repeatedly shown a willingness to con
sent to any plan which would include
the principle of the eight-hour day and
has stood ready to submit to the rail
road employes any plan suggested by
the executives which has a possibility
of acceptance.
L'p to the present the railroad execu
tes have based their objections to the
President's plan on the ground that the
entire controversy should be submitted
to arbitration. , ,
It was understood today that many
proposals of different forms have been
presented to the railway executive.
through the White House, but that they
have all been met with the statement
that the railroads stood" for arbitrating
the whole controversy.
President to Give Details.
If all negotiations fail, and the Presi
dent goes before Congress probably to
morrow or Wednesday, it is said he
will reveal the details of all negotia
tions in his address and his plan for
legislation.
The four brotherhood heads, wntM
they waited today for.the next mo*?
by the executives, sent President Wll
son a letter explaining how the ?<?
representatives had gone home and left
twenty-four men in charge with authority
to act.
Congress Not to Adjourn.
Senator Kern, the majority leader,
whom President Wilson journeyed
through the rain to the Capitol lait
night to consult, said that all hope of
adjournment of Congress Friday had
been abandoned, and that Congress was
waiting the outcome of the President's
conferences today with officials of tl|?
railroads and brotherhoods before un
dertaking anything relating to the in
<1"'Noth1ingi will be done," said Senator
