v
WEATHER FORECAST;
hCtotidy Today and Tomorrow.
(Full Report on Pago Two.)
WkiW
vmimi
HO ME
EDITION
1
NUMBER 9006.
WASHINGTON, MONDAY EVENING. AUGUST 28, 1916,
PRICE ONE CENT.
ROUMANIA DECLARES WAR
ON AUSTRIA; GREECE MAY
BE NEXT TO JOIN ALLIES
Balkan State, With Well-Trained Army of
600,000, Casts Her Lot With Entente;
Paris Says Declaration Was Against
All Central Powers.
PRO-ALLY MEETINGS IN ATHENS
Roumanian Third Army, Already Mobil
ized Within Striking Distance of Hun
garian Ffont, Expected to Strike at
Transylvania Before Week Ends.
BERLIN, Aug. 28. Austro-German troop
clashed with the Roumanians on the Siebemburgen
frontiers within a few hours after Roumania's en
trance into the war. It was officially announced
this afternoon that Roumanian prisoners were
taken.
LONDON, Aug. 28. Roumania has joined the allies
with her well-trained army of 600,000 men.
An official statement from Berlin this afternoon an
nounced that Roumania declared war on Austria last night.
TheFrench foreign office announced that Roumania.
had issued a declaration of war against the central powers.
Germany will dismiss the Roumanian minister to
Berlin today, according to an Exchange Telegraph dispatch
from The Hague.
Roumania's decision was reached at a meeting of the
crown council, summoned by King Ferdinand last night.
It came at the end of two years of anxious waiting,
in which the Roumanian diplomats watched with the
tensest interest the military fortunes of the allies.
The Roumanian declaration is expected to signal
Greece's early entrance into the war on the side of the
allies
PRO-ALLY DEMONSTRATION.
Pro-ally enthusiasm, fanned to fever heat by the
Bulgarian invasion of northern Greece, broke out in a
series of great meetings in Athens Sunday.
King Constantine was denounced for failing to lend
support to the allies, and was urged to prepare the army
nor war.
The Roumanian Third Army, already mobilized
dthin striking distance of the Hungarian frontier, is ex
acted to invade Transylvania before the end of the week.
striking westward against Bezzterze.
The Roumanian general staff probably will send
every available man into the invasion of Hungary in an
effort to conquer the rich province of Transylvania, long
coveted by the Roumanians.
At the same time. a. strong force will be maintained
along the southern Roumanian frontier to guard against
attack by the Bulgarians.
GREAT DIPLOMATIC ACHIEVEMENT.
WILSON TO ASK LAWS FOR
COMPULSORY ARBITRATION
AND POWER TO RUN TRAINS
BBsBiiifitB$lX s0$fcs
BBBBBBBBBBm: vfUW I MCIbBBB
!BBBBBBVftlK4K:VBBBf7'Bm7T , .HP.BSHbW
I PflBBBVIPawBi' T vbbb xlt J"bb' & 4 mbbWHsbbbW .
RIbHI'V ' 11 Y bHbbV
Av fSbd sH ii bHRbbH
1 V1bbHbH'SibbW A bLK'-'-'PbbbbH
V 'HtBBBBBBBBBDBVkHSBBBF Jr 'gtfe, V.JBBBBBBB -
WibbbbbIbBFbw XbW'KIjIbIbbBBb
XvSBBBBBBBBFBr BBTAvNbBBBBBBHBiV
W aeeeeHeeeeeHUiir . Vv'i arSBs
V. BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB f .iii IM MgaByBBBBSBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBr S
KING FERDINAND of Roumania,
Whose Country Entered the War Toady.
Photo by Undtrwood A Un4rwool.
KING CONSTANTINE, of Greece.
Whose Country May Enter the War at Any Minute.
Also Ready to Urge Congress to Pass Eight
Hour Law, Should New Proposal
Framed Today Be Rejected by
Railroad Heads
NOW IS WORKING TO DELAY STRIKE
WOODWARD
ORDERS
MLEAN EXECUTOR CONFEREES HALTED
ASKS POWER TO BUY BY HALF-AND-HALF PLAGUEQUARANTINE
REST OF POST STOCK -r "-- BUT WITHHOLDS O.K.
Health Officer of District Says
Drastic Regulations Would
Not Check Disease.
ExebWr of Will Petitions Courtf
for Authority to Raise
Cash.
Become Deadlocked on District
Bill After Half an Hour Con-
ference Today. -n
Mclean and homer agree
The American Security anil Trust
Company, executor under the will of tho
late John R. McLean, today petitioned , tla District bill will fall and a rontlnu
Conferees on the District bill have
again disagreed.
They met for half an hour today, and
found themselves in deadlock over the
half-and-half question.
The disagreement will be reported to
lli House nt Its nicotinic tomorrow. It
miI than be up to the House to stand
bv the confereen on tha half-and-half or
recede.
I'nleHM tho House recedes from It po
sition on the half-and-half, it n UKiiy
The noumnnlan entrance Into the war
was the greatest diplomatic achievement
for the allies alnce the European strug
gle began. ' " '
Dispatches from The Hague today de
clared that Berlin received the news
calmly, though tho German press blames
Foreign Secretary von Jagow and I'nder
Foreign Bocretary Zimmerman for Ger
many's diplomatic dofeat.
The Berlin military authorities sta
tioned a guard about the Roumanian le
gation, but there were no hostile dem
onstrations. A Berlin crowd vented Its wrath
against Italy fbr declaring war against
Germany yesterday by stoning the Ital
ian embassy until police reserves ar
rived. Thus far tio serious trouble has
occurred.
Roumania entered the war at almost
the same hour that Italy declared war
on Germany.
The two events had close connection,
It Is believed here, since Roumania and
Italy had acted In concert In other Bal
kan matters and were understood to
have agreed mbro than a year ago to
join tho allies at the same time.
News of the allied diplomatic victory
at Bucharest was hailed with tho great
est enthusiasm In London.
Everywhere the view wan taken that
Roumania's entrance Into the war
means the speedy elimination of both
Austria and Bulgaria from the conflict.
Squeezed between the victorious Rus
sian nnd Italian armies, tho Austrlans
now find themselves forced to defend
their eastern border from attack at a
moment when they lack men for the
Russian and Italian fronts.
Allied military experts are confident
that Germany will be unable to tend
any re-enforcements to the aid of the
bara-pmitd Auitrlanj, without disaster
On hnth tha TlllaafoM and A m 1 C -.. . t.
fronts. . -:..
Borne critics see as a result of Rou-
... ..viiu,, illc uuiung ore oi liui-
wlth f h i Turkey from communication
.... ...., ou.hu-ucmuuii nines ana
!J?h l,urrenar under economic and
military pressure before the end of the
present year.
ROUMANIA PLANNED
TO WAR YEAR AGO
Severe Defeat of Russia 'Changed
Situation in May, 1015.
The latest advices from Bucharest,
oil heavily censored, reported that the
Roumanian crown council would meet
today, and, furthermore, reported the
continuation of preparations for war.
Budapest advices to the London
Morning Post today quoted a pro
German paper In Bucharest as author
ity for the statement that the Rou
manian prime minister had Anally
decided to abandon- neutrality a-nd cast
Roumania's lot with the allies.
Italy's declaration of war on Ger
many yesterday may have been a
fflOtnr In thA nnilm.nt.H i4.n1n..tl.M
It was generally understood that
Roumania planned to enter the war
with Italy In May, 1915, but the severe
dofeat of the Russians at about that
time made It seem practically oertaln
that a declaration of war would be
followed by an Invasion of Rou
mania by Auatro-German armies,
Roumania's formal entrance Into the
war makes a total of fifteen nations
engaged In the greatest conflict In
the world's history.
It Is possible Roumania's decision may
1 (Continued ob Pm Nlne-J
the Probate Court for authority to sell
securities of the estate to realize auf
nclent actual capital to pay UTO.ton to
John F. Wllklns for 370 shares of stock
In the Washington Post Company.
The petition of the executor recites
that by an agreement slfcned by McLean
and Wllklns. October 7. 1!X'. McLean
acquired 300 shares of the Washington
Post Company stock. The ngi cement
provided that neither shall dispose of
the stock without giving the other
preference as the buyer.
The executor declares that there Is In
Its possession only 1144,291.41. The court
Is petitioned to grant authority to dis
pose of 500,000 worth of United 9tnte.s
bonds to realize the capital necessary
for the contemplated stock purclmse.
Letters Accompany Petition.
Accompanying the petition nre copies
of letters bearing the sWnatur of
Francis T. Homer and Edward U. 'Mc
Lean, consenting to the purchase by tho
executor of the Vllklnn stock nt 11.740
per share, or a total of H69.S0O. The Mc
Lean will stipulated that hoforii any
sale or purchase of th Washington
(Continued on Fifth Page.)
PLOTTED TO KIDNAP
YOONG
HARRM
Ing resolution will be passed extending
the old appropriation law.
To what extent other Itemn In con
troversy were discussed this morning
wuh not disclosed. It was authoritative
ly stated, however, that the half-and-half
was the main point In controversy.
POINTS TO NEW YORK RULES
ADJOURNMENT Pt AN
UPSET BYSEN. KERN
Tells Senators There Is No
Hope of Winding Up Pro
gram by Friday.
lowans Admit Plan to Hold Son
of Late Railway Magnate
for Ransom.
ST. ANTHONY. Iown. Aug. 28.-De-talls
of tho' plot to' kidnap Kdward H.
IJarrlman. twenty, son of the late rail
road magnate, and to hold him for
1100,000 ransom. were revealed to the
authorities today by Marlon A. Lufkln,
who admits virtual leadership In the
conspiracy..
Ralph Zufcldt and David McLoy. Luf
ktn's alleged associates, were "sweated"
today, but neither was communicative.
The police sav MoLoy has confessed,
but that Zufcldt denies complicity.
According to Lu(kn, Jhoy planned to
abduct young Harriman and take him
to the hills, where they would hold him
prisoner. Thoy planned, he declared,
to send a letter, which had already been
prepared.' demanding J100.000 ransom,
threatening to blind or otherwise dis
figure the young man should the money
i not be paid.
iiarrlman. who la enjoying himself at
Island Park, knew nothing of the plot.
Capt. Hobbs Relieved
From D. C. Guard Duty
Capt. Horace P. Hobbs, Infantry, to.
day was relieved from duty as In-spsctor-tnstructor
of the national
report to the office of the chief of the
militia oureau lor duty in nla office.
Hope for adjournment of Congress
this week was knocked higher than
u klto today when Senator Kern,
Democratic floor leader, announced
the Henate could -not possibly set
through with Its program by Friday,
as had been planned.
"We couldn't have adjourned Fri
day even If the strike situation had
not arisen," said Kern.
"All now hangs on the result of
this afternoon's conference between
the President and the railroad men.
Only after that conference will the
matter of legislative action or a Joint
session to hear the President In con
nection with the railroad situation be
discussed.
Other Senators, believing the strike
situation, unless speedily oleered up,
may keep Congress hero possibly two
weeks, mild today several measures,
which were to have gone over until
next sesfclon might Just as well be
considered at once.
The corrupt practices and Immigra
tion measures are two that may be
taken up.
REJECTS PLEAS FOR
LICENSE TRANSFERS
Excise Board Acts in Two Cases
and Sets Hearing on Third.
Drastic regulations for the preven-i
Hon of Infantile paralysis recom4
mended by Health Ofacer W. C.
Woodward are not Indorsed by him
personally.
This became known when the regu
lations were referred by the Commis
sioners today to the Corporation
Counsel for an opinion as to their
legal form and the authority of the
board to adopt them.
In n statement accompanying the reg
ulations Dr. Woodward soya they arc
In substantial comnliynco with tin
standard minimum requirements adopt
ed at the recent conference of State
and Territorial Health Officers with of
ficials of the Public Health Service, and
modified somewhat un the result nf the
conference between the Health Officer
and representatives of the Waahlncton
Homeopathic Medical Society, the Med
ical Society of the District, and the
Public Health Service.
Dr. Woodward's Statement.
In recommending their promulga
tion Dr. Woodward says he Is guided
by the fact that they nre based on tho
views of a body of representative health
officers throughout the United States
and of the Public Health Service, and
(Continued on Fifth Page.)
GRAIN PRICES DROP;
TRADERS IN FRENZY
News of Roumania's Entrance
in War and Strike Talk
Hurt Issues.
Following a hearing In each case the
Kxclso Doard today rejected the appli
cations of Henry Hut for a transfer of
retail liquor license from John Lynoh,
at 417 Ninth street northwest, and the
Iiyrd and Barry Distributing Company
for a transfer of wholesale license from
Harvey S. Byrd and Martin J. Barry
from .621 O street northwest to 1218
Pennsylvania avenue northwest
A hearing on the application of Joseph
VI T.lh..l anri .Tnhn T. riarl 9nm a
transfer of wholesale license from A. EJ.l
Hohmann at 1037 Fifth street northwest,
will be held Wednesday at 10 o'clock.
Thb number of applications for licenses
for the next license year beginning No
vember 1 on Ale today was 166 retail and
fifty-one wholesale. The law requires
that all application be recorded on or
before September U
CHICAGO, Aug. J8.-Sensatlonal drops
of 7 to 8 cents In prices on the local
grain market today threw pit traders
Into a frenzy.
Newa that Roumania had declared war
on Austria and less favorable news In
regard to the strike situation were said
by traders to be responsible.
Tho bear raid on wheat continued, and
the wheat pit was In a turmoil. By
10:30 n. m. September wheat had fallen
to 11.47, 1H cents lower than the open
ing, and 4- cents lower than Saturday's
close. December stood at, I1.49M, 2V4
cents lower than tho opening, and 4H
cents below Saturday night's close,
May wheat registered 1.S2V4. 2K below
the opening, and tX below Saturday's
close.
At noon September was down 8 cents
over the close Saturday. December waa
down 8 cents, while May was down 7.
Bathing Girls Wear
Automobiles on Feet
LONG REACH, L. I.-Qirla on the
beach here are wearing automobiles on
their feet. They whist along the long
board singly and In palm. The device
U controlled by a long handle,
President Postpones Conference With Exp
ecutives to Give Them an Opportunity
to Hear His Latest Proposal Before
Submitting Their Reply
President Wilson this afternoon made ar
rangements to go to the Capitol at.,4 p. m. to
confer with members of the steering committee
in the Senate. It was stated the purpose of the
visit is to thoroughly discuss developments in the
strike situation.
President Wilson today presented a new proposal to
the railroads of the country, by which he hopes to avert
the threatened final break between the roads and the rail
road brotherhoods, and the inevitable industrial crisis that
would follow.
If theTJrtSeVif effort should fall, the President will ap
peal to Congress, and if possible secure the passage of laws
that will delay and possibly avert the threatened strike, and
will prevent a recurrence of such a situation.
A meeting between the President and the road heads
at 2:30 o'clock this afternoon will determnie whether Con
gressional action will be necessary. Should it be, the Presi
dent will go before a joint session of the Senate and House
tomorrow and outline his plans.
WHAT HE WILL RECOMMEND.
He will recommend passage of the following measures:
1A law, similar to the Canadian disputes act, which
averts all strikes and lock-outs for one year, pending
the investigation by a commission of all details incident
to the dispute.
2 An eight-hour law for railroad employes probably
an amendment to the present sixteen-hour law with
features covering matters of overtime and other collateral
details.
3 Legislation that would empower him to keep the
trains going and protect the mails, should a stnke be
called before these laws have beenv enacted. This latter
proposal is tentative.
STILL STANDS FOR EIGHT-HOUR DAY.
The President still stands pat on his demand for con
cession by the railroads of the principle of the eight-hour
day. He is willing, however, that sufficient time should
elapse before it is put into, effect to enable a commission
of five men to investigate and work out all details re
garding the application of the shorter hour day to railroad
operation a year if necessary.
From the first the President has been insistent on the
eight-hour day, but the proposition communicated to the
railroad executives today promises them" all the time neces
sary to allow a thorough investigation of the short day's
operation.
In order that he might complete his plans before the
actual break can come, the President this morning post
poned the conference, which he was to have had with the
committee of eight of the railroad presidents at 10:30
o'clocjc, until 2:30 o'clock this afternoon.
MAY DECLINE RAILROADS' REPLY.
At the conference the committee, if permitted, will lay
before the President its reply rejecting his proposals for a
settlement of the controversy through an adoption by the
roads of the eight-hour basic day with the present ten
hours' pay, and leaving all collateral matters to investiga
tion and report by a special commission.
It is possible that the President will decline to receive
this reply. His purpose is to prevent precipitate action
such as might follow an Immediate publication of the
answer of the railroads, and for that reason it is thought
that he might ask the railroad heads to postpone a final re
ply until they could consider the legislative steps which he
has under consideration.
Until he actually receives their reply and turns it oyer.
