THE ARIZONA BEPOTBLICA
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
N
TWENTY SEVENTH YEAB
8 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, MONDAY MORNING, AUGUST 28, 1916
8 PAGES
VOL. XXVII., NO. 102
Abwv. "
Y OFFICIALLY DEC
ETA
WAR
0
IS ANOMALOUS SITUATION
' , EXISTING FOR MONTHS WITH
,- DECLARATION IS NOW AT WAR
, (By Republican Associated Press Leased Wire)
Germany and Italy are at war. Ita.'y has ended the anomalous situa
tion that has existed for month by declaring that from Monday she eon
aiders herself the enemy of her former ally. Heavy fighting continues be
tween entente and Teutonic allies in the Macedonian theater from the re
gion of Lake Ochrida e-Mtward to Kavala.
Berlin reports that Bulgarian forces operating to the west of Lake
Ochrida have captured Malik, in Albania, and that along the Struma,
King Ferdinand's men are approaching the mouth of the river. Paris ad
mits the Bulgars have taken all except one of the forts at Kavala, on
the Aegean, fcut says they have come under the fire of British warships.
Paris says also that along the Struma. French artillery is bombarding the
enemy, while west of tne Vardar and near Lake Ostrovo the Serbs have
put down viqorous attacks by the Bulgars.
Despite bad weather, there has been considerable fighting and a re
rewal of mine warfare along the British front in France.
London reports the capture of 200 yards of a German trench Saturday
niqht north of Barsentin-Le-Petit, and a further qain northwest of Gin
chv. Berlin says that British attacks Saturday south of Thiepval,
northwest of Pozieres and north of Bazentin-Le-Petit. were without sue
cess Paris records repulse of German attacks along the line held by the
French. .
Russian efforts to cross the Dvina river southeast of Rica, arta a'so
near Friedrichstadt failed, according to Berlin. On the remainder of the
Russian front no important chanqe wa reported. Petrograd chronicles a
fresh advance at Koverlant, near the Hungarian border.
Petrograd reports a Russian success over the Turks-' at Maslad-irasi
river. Hard fighting is in progress near Diarbekr between Russians and
Ottomans. i ',,., ., ,
Infantry fiqhtinq on the Isonzo front is at a standstill, but the Au
trians are heavily bombarding Italian positions alonq the river and at Val
lone. In the Carnic Alps the Italians have taken several Austrian Positions.
Italy Declares War
ROME. Aug. 27. Italy today
clared war on Germany.
de-
Italy and Germany have been drift
ing steadily toward war. The declara
tion became inevitable when Italy re
cently sent troops to Saloniki to co
operate in the campaign of the entente
allies on the Macedonian front, as Ger
many is directing the opposing forces
and has troops on this battle line.
Italy's position in regard to rtermany
has been an anamolous one since Italy
withdrew from the triple alliance May
23 of last year and declared war on
Austria. Although by this act she ar
Yayed herself afralnst her former allies,
Germany and Austria, she remained
officially at peace with Germany until
yesterday.
Before Italy took this step Germany
exerted every effort to induce her to
remain neutral, sending to Rome as an
ambassador Prince von Buelow. The
prince for some time averted war be
tween Austria and Italy, and when he
saw a rupture was inevitable took
steps toward preservation of an offi
cial peace between Germany and Italy.
He negotiated a special agreement un
der which, in case of war between Aus
tria and Italy, Germany and Italy
pledged themselves to respect the prop
erties and lives of their respective sub
jects in each other's domain.
According to unofficial reports from
Kurope, Italy's allies were dissatisfied
and at the Paris council of entente
powers in February last, asked the
Italian representatives why their na
tion was not at war with Germany.
Italy already had agreed not to con
clude a separate peace, and at the Paris
conference sanctioned the plan for a
permanent high council of the entente
powers for future conduct of the war.
The increasing co-operation among the
entente allies a"nd the necessity for
bringing into service Italy's surplus of
troops, gradually brought Italy into
such a position that it became evident
a declaration of hostilities against
Germany was certain.
The first overt act in this direction
occurred shortly after the Paris confer
ence, February 29. Italy requisitioned
34 of the 37 German steamships in
terned in Italian ports, to help meet
the pressing needs of the allies for
shipping facilities. Other indications
of approaching war have leen ob
served in recent weeks. A German
court ruled that Italy and Germany
were actually, though not formally, at
war. It was reported unofficially that
Germany had taken charge of the de
fense of Triest More definite indica
tion was the severance last month of
the commercial agreement providing
for mutual respect of the regiment of
each other. Italy and Germany sev
ered diplomatic relations last year.
Italy s action probably will have lit
tle effect In the military situation in
the inynediate future, although as the
war goes on It may have a more im
portant bearing. On the Austro-Ital-ian
front Italy finds active use, for
hardly more than half her army, and
In futurp. can send, available troops to
any front. Having committed herself
already to the Macedonian campaign.
Italy's step is of no significance as re
spects that theater of war. Germany
hereafter will be free to take such part
In the Anstro-Italian campaign as may
he decided on by the Teutonic allies,
either In the way of leadership or. by
utilizing her soldiers when needed.
Through Swiss Government
BERLIN, Aug. 27. (By Wireless to
Sayvlllc.) The following announce
ment was made here today:
"The Italian government has de
clared through the Swiss government
Kansas City at
. With Veterans Gathering
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
KANASAS CITY. Aug. 27. Kansas
City stood at attention today in salute
to the hundreds of veterans of the
Civil War. who were arriving on every
train to attend the fiftieth annual en
campment of the Grand Army of the
Republic, all departments of which
will be opened officially tomorrow.
Churqhes held services in honor of the
wearers of the blue, flags and bunting
were hung on buildings and houses
throughout the business and residence,
districts, and many spent the day driv
ing the visiting heroes tars to points
that it considers itself from August 28
at war with Germany."
Asks Switzerland to Act
PARIS. Aug. 27. A Havas dispatch
from Rome gives a communication
published by the Stefani agency and
addressed by the Italian government
to the Swiss government. It requests;
the Swiss government to inform the
German government that Italy consid
ers herself at war with Germany from
and after August 28.
Mil III 11
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DALLAS, Aug. -27. Additional re
turns from yesterday's United States
senators run off primary In Texas
shows Senator Charles A. Culberson,
incumbent, - still maintaining a con
sistent lead of about 60,000 votes over
his opponent, former Govermor O. B.
Colpuitt. Returns were coming in
slowly tonight, but indications are that
Culberson's majority will be in the
neighborhood of 75,000.
Senator Culberson carried every
county on the Mexican border except
Presidio county, in which only 53 votes
were cast, 43. fqr Colquitt and ten for
Culberson. Only about two-thirds of
Texas' voting strength was exersiced
In the primary.
In the July primary, in which there
were five candidates, Colquitt received
about 30,000 more votes than Culber
son, but lacked two-thirds majority of
the total vote cast.
EIGHT KILLED IN WRECK
republican A. P. Leased Wire
LAREDO, Tex., Aug. 27. Eight per
sons wee killed and a score injured
Friday when a passenger train was
wrecked on the Mexican National near
Paredon, state of Coahuila, according
to reports tonight The accident was
due to bad condition of the track.
FIRST IN EIGHT YEARS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
POl'GHKEEPSIA, N. Y., Aug. 27.
Poughkeeepsie's first Grand Circuit
meeting in eight years will open to
morrow. The opening day's program
will include an attempt by Directum
I., 1:56. to beat the track pacing
record. The Vassar stake for two-year-old
trotters has 27 entries.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGXON, Aug., 27. A -view,
of what the Wilson administra
tion has done for the navy is given
in a long letter from Secretary
Ianiels to ' Representative William
Elza. of Illinois, made public tonight
by the navy department.
As to how and when the navy must
rank among the greater fleets of the
world, the secretary quotes the gen
eral hoard as saying. that, based on
displacements of ships built, the
United States advanced to second
Place in 1907 and lost it to Germany
In l!ill. The way had been paved in
1905. he said, when President Roose-
Attention
of Interest in and about the city.
Estimates at dcpac-mental .head
quarters tonight that from 25,000 to
30,000 ex-soldiers would be in Kansas
City within the next two or three days
to answer the regimental roll calls.
Commanders and executives said
that .fear of . the threatened railroad
strike was serving to prevent some of
the veterans from coming to Kansas
City.
Hundreds of boy scouts were at the
railroad stations- and encampment
headquarters to guide the visitors to
the rooms assigned them.
DANIELS TELLS WHAT WILSON
ADMINISTRATION ACCOMPLISHED
Break May
GIRL IS KILLED WHEN AUTO TURNS OVER
?
P
TO SAFEGUARD GOTHAM
AGAINST CHILD PLAGUE
NEW YORK, Auk. 27. Plana to
safeguard Greater New York's 700,-
000 school children from Infantile
paralysis when they return to
school were made public tonight
by Dr. C. Ward Cramnton, director
of physical training in the depart- I
ment of education. Every pupil
will receive daily hygiene tnspec- I
tion and a two-minute period, of
exercise will be given them hourly. I
"Teachers will Bee that all health- I
depressing infant influences are I
eliminated," Dr. Crampton said. I
"Children will he placed in seats I
fitted for the temperature, and j
ventilation will be watched and the I
children organized into squads for
caring for cleanliness." I
ITALIANS FAIL
Republican A. P. Leased Wire .
TI N
Bt.Kl.lN, Aug. ii (By wireless to accident occurred about 5 o'clock yes
Sayville) "Italian artillery directed terday afternoon about a mile from
active fire against our positions south Glendale on the road between Glendak
of Vippach," says yesterday's Austrian
statement. "Italian attempts to ad
vance in the Ploecken sector were re
pulsed. On the front south of Fleibs
valley several battalions made repeat
ed attacks against Cauriol. These ef
forts, as well as all attacks of smaller ,
enemy detachments in the district of
Cima Dence, failed.
"Lieutenant von Siedeler shot down
an aeroplane of the Caproni type In
the vicinity of Wusern.
"Telegrans from Rotterdam say the
British government has announced to
(LUIIMUUUtrU IU I
i? m,TnIt). L".?
tjuuute ul mjftLtBi mi iiiiiinii nit-1 uiia.nl I
ships are being armed," says the Ov
erseas News Agency. "Ship captains
have received from the British ad
miralty strict orders to use their ar
mament against all ships of enemy
countries."
An - official statement issued here
today says:
"The German emperor has ordered
postponement until after the war of the
execution of all sentences imposed for
the punishment of French prisoners,
both civilian and military, on account
of acts committed up to September 1
of this year."
The Overseas News Agency adds:
"The newspapers state this action
was taken as a result of a reciprocal
agreement with the French govern-
ment.
Nicholas Sends Reply
PETROGRAD, Aug. 27 (Via London)
Emperor Nicholas replied today to
the message sent last month by Presi
dent Wilson to the heads of European
governments urging their co-operation
in measures to make possible the for
warding of -food supplies to Poland.
The emperor expressed appreciation
of the efforts of the American people
and said he regretted that nations at
war with Russia would not agree to a
plan for provisioning the Poles. He
assured the president of his willingness
to cooperate as far as possible in any
future efforts.
The Japanese delegation to investi
gate conditions in Russia arrived to
day. It comprises members of cham
bers of commerce, university profes-
, eore and merchants. Its appointment
I (Continued on Page Three)
velt and Secretary Bonaparte recom
mended the constructiim of only one
capital ship.
In personnel, the secretary says,
the navy advanced to second place in
1908. dropped to third in 1911, .fourth
In 1913 and to sixth in 1916.
Captain Sims is quoted as saying
taget practice fell off between 1911
and 1913 and that during the last
practice it came up about forty per
cent. Rear Admiral Fletcher If
credited with the statement that re
cent practices were at 18,000 and 18,-
000 yards, and "it is believed that
scores recorded arc higher than ever
in the open sea."
Similar comments are attributed to
Caotain Plur.kett, director of target
practice, and other officers.
In the matter of construction the
letter carries a table showing 55
vessels ($8.1,191,938) was appropriated
for during the last Roosevelt admin
Is'ratlon, 65. ($127,747,113) under Taft
and 121, ($655,289,806) during three
vears of AVilson's administrating At
tention also is directed to the con
tinuing program adopted.
The secretary outlines what has
been accomplished toward increasing
the personnel, remedying the short
age of officers, opening the way for
nromotion of enlisted men, depart
mental re-organization and the re
organization of industries through the
naval consulting board.
Particular attention is called to the
authorizations for government armor
olate and projectile factories, the
equipment of navy varda to hullo
capital ships, and the increase of
wages at navy yards,
Come Today Unless Congress Finds Solution
AUTO ACCIDENTS
HARVEST LIGHT
LOCAL VICTIMS
n-
p
The dead:
Beatrice Ferra, aged 7,
,The injured:
Mrs. J. A. Ferra, bruised, left
forefinger dislocated.
Joaquin A. Ferra, bruised.
Angelita De Garcia, right collar
bone broken.
Joaquin Ferra, Jr., left leg
broken.
Ernesta Ferra, aged 2, right ribs
broken.
I Leopoldo Ferra, internal injuries.
I Luis Martinez, fractured skull.
U U
As a result of two automobile acci
dents yesterday afternoon, one Mexican
child was killed and three others arc
lying at the point of death.
Beatrice Ferra, aged 7, the daughter
of Joaquin A. Ferra, of East Monroe
street, was instantly killed when an
nutomnhiti In whieh h was ridinir
blw nnt ,irp anrt ,.,rnplt t,,rtl The
and Phoenix. Her brother, Leopoldo,
aged l?Tnonths, and her brother, Joa
quin, Jr., aged 12, were seriously in
jured. Luis Martinez, aged 9, the lad in
jured in the second accident, was hit
,,y an auto ea'rly , the eveninK on the
Tempe road
The young girl who was killed wa
with her parents at the time of th
accident. Besides her parents the ma
chine carried her three brothers, Joa
quin, Jr., Ernesto, aged 11, Leopoldo
, ,0 . . , !.,.. l,..
Angelita De Garcia. Mr and Mrs
n . . ,
Enario Garcia' and children, lose, An
gelita, Ernesto and Manuel, were alsc
occupants of the machine, but were
not injured.
According t) an eye-witness, the ma
chine carrying the two families wat
proceeding from Glendale to Phoeni:
at a terrific rate of speed. About a
mile east of Glendale, Ferra, who li
the owner of the ill-fated auto, and
who was driving at the time, attempteo
to pass another machine carrying
Ralph Hall the son of a randier living
near Glendale, Willby Nevill, of tht
same place, and Fay Hawks, the son
of Postmaster Hawks, of Glendale
I'oth machines were going in the same
direction.
As Ferra drew up opposite the ma
chine carrying the three Glendale lads
he put on more power in an effort tc
pass. The machine stood the test ir.
good shape, hut a tire, unable to stand
the terrific strain, blew out, causing
the machine to turn over, striking tjpe
smaller auto carrying the Glendale
lads. The ill-fated car turned over
and over strewing its occupants or
both sides of the road for a considera
ble distance. When the mad career o
the car finally stopped there was little
left of it.
Witnesses rushed to the scene ane"
gave all aid possible. It was immedi
ately seen that little Beatrice was be"
yond human am and attention was
given to the injured. Outside of minoi
injuries and a severe shaking up, none
of the grown occupants of the machine
were seriously harmed. -
Little Leopoldo and his brother Joa
quin were hastily loaded into a passing
auto, and a mad dash started for the
Sisters' Hospital in Phoenix. The chil
dren, as soon as that institution was
neached, were placed on the operating
table and at a late hour last night hop
was held out for their recovery. Dr. L
Boido is. the attending physician.
Those who witnessed the acciden'
attached no particular blame to any
one. Poth cars were on the right sid'
of the road, and Ferra was making the
turn to the left. The unforseen blow
ing out of the tfre could not be blame'"
on the drivers of either of the ma
chines. Ferra is one of the best known of the
Mexican colony of Phoenix. He is the
proprietor of a grocery store on Kas'
(Continued on Page Three)
o
Hughes Plans to
Take Rest Before
-Resuming Tour
Repuhlican A. P. Leased Wire
ESTES PARK. Colo.. Aug. 27. Chas.
E. Hughes arrived fiere today, where
he plans to remain until Thursday
resting before resuming his speaking
tour. Mr. Hughes was admittedly
tired and advised his secretary not tc
bring him any papers unless they per
tained to matters demanding imme
diate attention.
The nominee and Mrs. Hughes mo
tored here from Lyons, Colo., where a
fompany of boy scouts and most of the
population of the place greeted them
on their arrival. The boy scouts gave
three cheer for Mr. Hughes and after
ward shook hands with him at an
impromptu reception.
This afternoon Mr. and Mrs. Hughes
went for a brief w'alk and later took
a short automobile ride. The nominee's
favorite recreation is meiuntain climb
ing and he plans to take several hikes
in the mountains about here during his
brief visit.
VILLA BANDITS ROUT
GARRISON OF SATEVO
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHIHUAHUA CITY. Mexico. Aug.,
27. Three hundred Villa bandits cap
tured the town of Satevo. Chia., fifty
miles south of here on Friday, ac-
ordiitg to reports to General Jacinto
Trevino today. The outlaws, under
Uribe Arango and Martin Lopez, sur
rounded the town and after six hours
battle, the garrison, numbering 200
under Captain De . la Fuente, being
without ammunition, was forced to
evacuate. Villa homself, was not with
the outlaws it was said.
The dispatches which came from
General Elizondo' made an estimate
sf the casualties on either side but
said that both the bandits and gov
ernment troops lost heavily. In the
early hours of the engagement a
number of outlaws were captured and
executed.
The garrison withdrew in order.
according to the reports, to the hills
whore they were reinforced by de
tachments of General Elizondo's com
mand and plans have been made to
I
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
MEXICO CITY, August 27. The
Mexican commissioners who are to en
deavor to settle with an American
commission points in dispute between
the United States and Mexico, departed
for New York today. Luis Cabrera,
president of the Mexican commission,
accompanied by James Linn Rodgers,
the American representative to the
Carranza government, proceeded to
Vera Cruz whence they will sail to
morrow for Key West on board the
L'nited States transport Dixie. Alberto,
I. Pani and ignacio Bonillis, the other
members, proceeded toward Saltillo,
where they are expected to arrive to
meirrow morning.
Before departing Senor Cabrera and
Mr. Rodgers conferred with General
Carranza, Minister of War Obregon
and Foreign Minister Aguilar.
Colonel Ahumada Dead
EL PASO, August 27. Colonel Mi
guel Ahumada, governor of the Mexi
can states of Jalisco and Chihuahua
under the Diaz regime, died at his
home here today. Colonel Ahumada,
who was 71 years old, was a veteran
of the campaign against Maximilian
and of several campaigns against the
Yaquis in Sonora. He was appointed
governor of Chihuahua from the army
in 1892, serving until 19U3. In 1910 he
was made governor Jalisco, serving
until the outbreak of the Madero revo
lution in the following year. Subse
quently he removed to El Paso where
he has lived since, taking no part in
Mexican politics. During his gover
norship of Chihauhua, Colonel Ahu
mada did much to improve the social
conditions of the people. Physicians
(Continued on Page Two)
CRISIS IN
MAY DELAY
Republican A. P. Leased Wire !
WASHINGTON. Aug. 27. Plans for
adjournment of congress next Friday
are not maturing rapidly or certainly.
The crisis in the railroad situation is
the principal obstacle and no one to
night would predict when the long and
arduous session would end.
Well laid plans for adjournment at
the end of the week were in progress
yesterday when President Wilson s
visit to the capitol in connection witn
the threatened strike disturbed all cal
culations. Leaders are going ahead,
however, on the assumption that con
gress may adjourn when it completes
the legislative program now before it.
The senate has begun the final drive
on the emergency revenue bill and will
continue consideration of the bill to
metrrow. Senator Underwood will make an
other protest against the proposed in
creased tariffs on dyestufts. Senator
Phelan of California wants amend
ments to the wine tax and Senator
Overman of North Carolina will lead
a revolt against the proposal to tax
manufacturers of all materials enter
ing into munitions of war five per cent
on their net profits. He will propose
to exempt all agricultural products
from this tax.
When amendments have been dis
posed of the senate will lay aside the
revenue bill long enough to pass the
general deficiency appropriation bill as
it comes from the house Tuesday or
Wednesday.
Senator Owen will struggle to the
end for action on corrupt practices and
Senator Smith of South Carolina
threatens to call up the immigration
bill again.
So far as known tonight the only-
legislation that may be pressed affect
ing the railroad situation is the bill to
COMMISSIONERS
FROM MOD ON
TO G0TH1
RALROAD
attempt to recapture Satevo. Gen
eral Trevino said that no apprehen
son need be felt here as to a further
northward progress of the band.
A second engagement with Villistas
was reported by General Apolonio
Trevino from Torreon. He said that
twenty bandits under -the leader
Ferniza, attacked a small detachment
of 'arranza troops at Hacienda
Coyote in the Laguna district but
were driven oft their leader and six
others being killed after three hours
fighting. Letters from Villa, under
a recent date, were found in Ferniza's
pockets, it was reported.
General Cavazos, reporting from
Guerrero, said that he had captureu"
two of the bandits who recently at
tacked the town of Parderneles, Chia..
and asked orders for their disposition.
Some excitement was caused here
today by a widespread report that
the American expeditionary command
was moving south, but in his report
General Cavazos said their southern
most base is still Bl Valle.
HUMAN BLOOD IS
BE
FOR PARALYSIS
f S'ipubllcan A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK. August 27. Serum
manufactured from human blood is
pre-eminent in treatment of persons
afflicted with infantile paralysis in the
opinion of Dr. Simon Flexner director
of the Rockefeller Institute for Medi
cal Research, it became known tonight.
Dr. Flexner has recommended the
treatment -to the members of the
American Medical Association. The
facts he has adduced are embodied in
an article contributed to the Journal
of the American Medical Association. '
Evidence in favor of this treatment
shows that if a serum prepared from
the blood of monkeys which have had
the disease is injected into healthy
monkeys they either cannot acquire in
fantile paralysis or else if they do con
tract it, the severity of the ailment is
modified. Some times the treatment
arrests the paralysis in the midst of
its progress. "
Dr. Flexner comments upon ''c re
port of Dr. A. Netter, who put the
treatment to the test in the course
of his practice.
Dr. Netter in making the serum used
the blood of patients who had entirely
recovered from infantile paralysis. An
interesting feature of his work, it is
said, is the fact that one of the per
sons who donated blood for this pur
pose had had the disease thirty years
ago. This demonstrates, according to
modern medical teaching, that the im
munity conferred upon this person by
the disease thirty years before had
lasted throughout this long period, be
cause the agents, or "anti-bodies,"
which originated in the blood when the
invading germs attacked him had re
mained on duty to repel a possible sec
ond invasion.
ST FOR SLIM
SITUATION
EARLY ADJOURNMENT
enlarge the interstate commerce com
mission from 7 to 9 men. The presi
dent is known to have expressed a de
sire that it be passed. - This bill, by
itself, democratic senators said could
be disposed of without difficulty.
House leaders are going ahead with
the completion tf their program. The
house will meet Tuesday and act on
the deficiency . appropriation bill. It
will follow this with action on the
amended shipping bill,. Then it will
await the senate revenue bill amend
ments and whatever the railroad crisis
may have in store. All thought of
passing a joint resolution for adjourn
ment on a definite day has been abandoned.
United States to be Chief
Reliance After the War
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, Aug. 27. In a signed
article on "America's ' Opportunity"
published in the current number of the
general federation magazine, which
represents the general federation of
women's clubs. President Wilson de
clares that "a newi problem of disun
ion, more subtle, more difficult to meet
with direct checkmate, and correction,
than the old problem which culminated
in the civil war, has engaged and dis
turbed our thought. We have realized
that we must devote new energy and
ordor to bringing together the forces
which will produce a new union, a un
ion of spirits triumphant over every
alien force and sympathy."
JOINT SESSION
MAY HEAR PLEA
FROM WILSON
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, August 27 Tenta
tive plans for a joint session of the
senate and house to hear President
Wilson ask for legislation to prevent
the threatened nation-wide railroad
strike were discussed by the president
with Senator Kern, the democratic
leader, tonight, when it seemed vir
tually certain that a break between
the railroads and their men must fol
low final conferences at the White
House tomorrow.
Possibilities of legislation were
talked over by the president with Sen
ator Newlands, chairman of the inter
state commerce committee, and Secre
tarjr Lane, and tonight the president
made a quiet trip to the senate office
building to find Senator Kern attend
ing a meeting of the finance commit
tee. The belief that negotiations be
tween the railroad presidents and the
men would end without agreement was
strong tonight.
Whether the plans considered by
President Wilson and his advisers at
the capitol will Be carried out depends
upon tomorrow's developments, but it
is understood that if all efforts fail to
bring the employers and their men to
gether the president will go before con
gress and ask that it deal with the sit
uation even if that necessitates indef
initely prolonging the present session.
Representatives of both the rail
roads and the brotherhoods will confer
with the president tomorrow. The ex
ecutives of the lines will present the
plan, the outstanding feature of which
is a demand for arbitration of wages
under the eight-hour day or any day.
There was a reporr tonight that the
president might ask the men to post
pone action for a period in order that
he might seek legislation which would
force and provide for a settlement
without tying up the country's trans
portation systems.
Secretary Lane and Senator New
lands worked until late tonight fram
ing bills for presentation to congress.
Other legislation under considera
tion includes the following:
An eight-hour day law for railroad
employes.
bill increasing the membership of
the interstate commerce commission
from 7 to 9 with authority to divide
into groups.
A resolution stating it to be the
sense of congress that if the railroads
grant a basic eight-hour day they
should be entitled to Increased revenues
commensurate with the increased op
erating expenses.
A bill, already pending, directs the
interstate commerce commission to as
certain minimum, maximum and aver
age wages paid with hours of service
to every class of railroad employe, to
compare them with wages of other in
dustries in which such skill and risk
are involved to ascertain the relation
of railroad-wages to railroad revenues
and urges both sides to the present
dispute to defer action pending the in
vestigation. At today's conference, consideration
was given to the problem of keeping
the railroads in operation in the event
of a strike and how far congress should
go in extending federal authority over
the railroads.
There were no conferences nor meet-
j ings of the committee of eight. Among
the presidents and managers here the
opinion prevails that the proposal of
the men would not be acceptable to
them and there was. no concealment of
the feeling that if President W'ilson
has no other suggestion to make, a
strike is coming. The railroad execu
tives declare that a strike cSThnot last
long and that their precautions will
insure the running of all necessary
trains.
Democratic senators who chanced to
be in conference at the capitol on the
revenue bill tonight when the president
unexpectedly appeared there in
search of Senator Kern were gravely
concerned over the prospects and ail
conceded that the crisis probably
would prolong the session of congress.
When the president reached the
capitol he asked a policeman at the
door to direct him to the finance com
mittee room. The officer announced
the president's arrival and Senator
Kern hastily left the room. For sev
eral minutes he talked, with the presi
dent in the hall, but later they walked
upstairs to the president's room. The'
president did not consult other demo
cratic leaders.
"I cannot discuss the subject of the
president's visit," said Senator Kern,
"further than to say that it concerned
the railmad situation. The affair is
(Continued on Page Two)
The president predicts in his article
that the United States wilt oe the ch:ei
financial reliance of ne world after
the war. Discussing the future of the
country he says:
"The war has enhanced her skill and
added to her resource, recause of the
very circumstances of her situation,
cut off from her usual trade with many
parts of the world and called upon to
supply what she never supplied be
fore. "Her finances will nave It within
their choice to play a part they never
played before in the economic devel
opment of other nations and of distant
regions of the earth.
