HARRISBURG iffiiSfill TELEGRAPH
LXXXV— No. 198
.NEGOTIATIONS
A VERTINGSTRIKEARE
NOW IN LAST STAGES
Either Break or Settlement Is Not Far Oft; Situation Is
Viewed as Most Perilous Since Dealings Began; Ad
ministration Pins Hope to Possibility of Getting
Brotherhoods to Give More Time For Conferences
STRIKE ORDERS BEING CIRCULATED
TO AWAIT TELEGRAPHIC RELEASE
Men Charge Pennsylvania With Inconsistency in Reply to
Rea's Announcement That Rather Than Give Up Arbi
tration Roads Preferred to Face a Strike; In case of
Conflict Federal Receivership Would Operate Lines
Washington, Aug. 28. President Wilson's negotiations for
averting the threatened nation-wide railway strike arc in the last
stage with a break or a settlement apparently not far off.
With the railway executives standing firm against conceding
the eight-hour dav and the brotherhood leaders still standing out
against arbitrating' it, the hope of preventing a tie-up of the country's
transportation systems seemed to lie with Congress.
Plan For Breaking Deadlock
President Wilson's plan for breaking
the deadlock between the railroads
and their employes, as discussed in
conferences to-day was as folows:
An eight-hour law for railroads
to become effective at a date far
enough in the future to give the
railroads opportunity to prepare
for it.
A law patterned after the Cana
dian net which creates a commis
sion of investigation and prevents
lockouts or strikes while an in
dustrial dispute is being investi
gated.
This plan was discussed by the
President with his party leaders in
Congress as the basis for the next
step after the railroad managers have
formally announced their refusal to
accept the plan of settlement the Pres
ident previously proposed. They were
expected to do this at 2.30 o'clock this
afternoon at a White House confer
ence.
Meanwhile Congress leaders gave
up hope of adjournment this week and
settled down to stay here as long as
necessary to provide legislation to
meet the strike situation.
Senator Newlands and Commission
er Chambers of the Federal Mediation
Board conferred to-day with Acting
Attorney General Todd about the leg
islation program but all denied that
any legal measures for preventing a
strike had been discussed.
May Go Before Congress
While the President has not finally
given up hope of bringing about an
agreement through direct negotiations
he is going forward with his prepar
ations for going before Congress with
his plan for legislation.
The President, it was said, to-day,
has repeatedly shown a willingness
to consent to any plan which would
include the principle of the eight-hour
day and has stood ready to submit to
the railroad employes any plan sug
gested by the executives which had a
possibility of acceptance. Up to the
present the railroad executives have
based their objections to the Presi
dent's plan on the ground that the en
tire controversy should be submitted
to arbitration.
It was understood to-day that many
proposals of different form have been
presented to the railway executives
through the White House but that they
have all been met with the statement
that the railroads stood for arbitrat
ing the whole controversy.
21 Men in Charge
If all the negotiations fail, and the
President goes before Congress prob
ably to-morrow or Wednesday, it is
said he will reveal the details of all
the negotiations In his address and his
plan for legislation.
The brotherhood heads while they
waited to-day for the next move by
the executives, sent President Wilson
a letter explaining how the 640 repre
sentatives had gone home and left
24 men In charge with authority to act.
THE WEATHER
For Harrinhurß "nil vicinity t Fair
to-night and Tuesday; moderate
temperature.
For SOnstcrn Penn*vlvanla: Fnlr to
nlebt and Tuesday! cooler to
night In southeast portion; mod
erate temperature Tuesday) light
nortNuent to north winda.
Hlver
The Susquehanna river and lta
bran eh CM will remain nearly sta
tionary. A tlagr of about 3.4 feet
l» Indicated for Harrinhurß Tues
day morninß.
General Conditions
An citeiulve area of high pressure
from the .Varthneat cover* most
of the country east of the Rocky
Mountain* with Its center over
Kan»»». Shower* have occurred
la the last twenty-four hours
generally In the Middle and \orth
Atlantic State*. the I pper St.
I.awrence Valley, In the Ohio Val
ley, Tenneaiee and the Interior
of Georgia, and In the Middle
Mlaalaalppl Valley. Oklahoma,
Went Teiaa, New Mexico and In
Northern California.
Temperature are 2 to 18 degree*
lower than on Saturday morning
In the Middle Atlantic nnd New
Knaland State*. the Lpper St.
Lawrence Valley, the Lake Re
gion, the Ohio, Middle Ml*sl*alppl
and Lower Missouri valleyat tvn
nearly all the reat of the country
It ia allßhtiy warmer.
Temperature: 8 a. m., HO.
Sum Rlaea, 5:2S a. m.t sat*, 11:44
p. m.
Moon 1 Xew moon, to-day, 12:25
p. m.
River Stage: 3.3 feet above low
water mark.
Yeaterday'a Weathor
Highest temperature, S4.
I.owest temperature. 64.
Mean temperature, 74.
Normal temperature, 70.
Rumania Declares War on Austria-Hungary,
BY CARRIEHS « CENTS A WEEK.
SINGLE COIMES 2 CENTS.
At 4 o'clock this afternoon and af
ter his conference with the railway
executives President Wilson plans to
go to the Capitol again to confer with
the Democratic Steering Committee of
senators to discuss the proposed legis
lation.
At 2.30 o'clock the sub-committee of
eight executives composed of Messrs.
Holden. Ripley. Willard. Smith. Atter- j
bury, Harrison. Trumbull and Lovett,
went to the White House to confer |
with President Wilson. It was not
then certain they would present the i
formal reply to his plan they had pre-:
pared.
J Makes Statement
W. G. Lee, head of the trainmen, to
day issued a statement declaring that
the brotherhoods had no intention of
arbitrating the eight-hour day.
"It seems evident." the statement
said, "from press reports this morn
ing that the railway companies repre
sented here are determined to force
a strike rather than accept the com
promise settlement offered by Presi-1
dent Wilson.
"The organizations refuse positively
to arbitrate the questioh of an eight
hour day because we now have an i
eight-hour day in effect on many of
the southern and southwestern roads
and do not propose to arbitrate
whether we shal retain something that
we have had for years and that we se
cured peacefully.
"The railways' former claim that
our request would cost a hundred mil
lion dollars has been split fifty fiftv
and we are reminded of the statement
[Continued on Page 2.]
Rumania's Declaration of
War Caused Chicago Wheat
to Drop Eight and Half Cents
By .Associated Press
Chicago. 111.. Aug. 28.—Rumania's
declaration of war smashed the wheat
market. Opening prices to-day showed
a fall in some cases amounting to s s i
cents a bushel. September delivery,
which closed Saturday at 151%, started
to-day at 146 to 14S>4. Other options
also broke wildly.
General rushes to sell took place,
which were increased by the increased
chances of a general railway strike in
; the United States.
Before the descent of prices could he
I checked losses that reached to BVfc
1 cents a bushel were shown for the
principal trading months. December
sold as low as 145 as compared with
154 at Saturdav's finish.
Notwithstanding that the tremen
dous pressure to unload holdings car
! ricd away for a while all other consid
erations, the extraordinary break in
j values pro\ed too tempting for buyers
to resist, and the market showed the
consequence in rallies of 3 cents to 3 '4
cents from the lowest level.
Pear traders generally took the view
that the action of Rumania was likely
! to prove a big factor in forcing a more
speedy end of hostilities, or would at
least tend to hurry the opening of the
. Dardanelles, and so release huge Rus
; sian shipments of wheat.
KANSAS CITY WHEAT DROPS
By Associated Press
Kansas City. Mo., Aug. 28. - Ru
mania's declaration of war depressed
j the local wheat market to-day, all op
i tions opening lower. December open
ed at $1.41*4. 6*4 cents below Satur
day's close.
Choose Crowded Movie
For Dueling Ground, Then
Fatally Shoot Each Other
Pittsburg. Kansas. Aug. 28. \V.
M. Reed, a white man and Virgil Cobb,
a negro, are dead to-day as the result
l of a revolver fight last night at
! Croweburg, a mining camp near here.
The men had been enemies for a long
time and they chose a crowded mov
ing picture show for a battle ground.
! During the fusillade of shots which
goon cleared the house of spectators,
: both men were mortally wounded and
' died in a few hours. Many patrons of
j the show were trampled upon In the
| rush for exits, but none was seriously
; injured.
It WARSHIPS AT SAX DIEGO
* San Diego, Cal., Aug. 28.—Fourteen
| United States war vessels are in San
Diego harbor to-day, five cruisers,
1 seven destroyers, one gunboat and a
transport, comprising the largest fleet
; assembled here In months. Most of
Ithe vessels have recently been with
drawn from Mexican waters, eight ar
riving from the South yesterday.
HARRISBURG, PA., MONDAY EVENING, AUGUST 28, 1916.
FORMER GOVERNOR PENNYPACKER DYING
,-. ■ ■/ ; .*
Schwenkville, Pa.. Aug. 2S.—Ex-Governor Samuel W. Pennypacker, who has
been in poor health since his arm was broken last September, is critically ill
at his home here from an uraemic attack and little hope is entertained for his
recovery. The ex-Governor is a member of the Pennsylvania public Service
Commission.
WILLIAMS GROVE
GRANGER PICNIC
Children Barred From Exhibi
tion by Ruling of State
Health Department
Special to the Telegraph
William* Grove. Pa.. Aug. 28. —This |
morning the Grangers' Picnic opened <
here with a good attendance. Chil* !
dren under 16 years are prohibited trom |
attending under the ruling of the State
H/ilth Department. This exhibition
/.nually attracts more than 150,U0U
ople from all parts of the State dur
ing the week.
This will be "auto year" at the exhi
bition, according to R. H. Thomas, Jr.,
general manager, firms selling cars hav
ing contracted for a considerable part
of the exhibition space to show their
products. A full freight train was
necessary to transport the displays of
farm machinery to the ground, and all
sorts of modern agricultural devices
will be demonstrated,
j In an effort to secure recruits for
: the regiments of the Pennsylvania Na
tional Guard now on the border, a sta
tion for enlistments will be placed at
' the grove, and preparedness addresses
1 are expected to turn many young men
to the army tent.
This year there will also be an un
-1 usually large display of animals and
farm products.
Political parties will have representa
! tivt-a on the ground. To-morrow will
i be Democratic day, with the remainder
1 of the week divided among the Repub
-1 licans. Prohibitionists. Suffragists and
i Antisuffragists and the exponents of
! preparedness. Thursday will probably
!be the Republican day. The State
; Highway Department and Public
I Charities Association have displays on
! the ground.
Movement Started to Buy
} Auto For Troops on Border
i A movement has been started in
cities in Eastern and Central Penn
sylvania from which companies of the
Eighth and Fourth Beglments were
sent to the border, to raise funds to
I purchase a freight and baggage auto
! mobile transfer for those regiments.
The auto fully equipped with sev
! eral extra tires can be purchased for
S6OO. and a number of other regiments
already have them in use. The Potts
ville Bepublican has started the fund
'with a guarantee of SIOO, and has
sent an appeal to Harrisburg, and all
| other cities in this section including
j Allentown, Bethlehem, Bedford,
j Columbia. Carlisle, Chambersburg,
I Easton. Huntingdon, Hamburg, Leb
anon, Lancaster, Lewistown, Mahanoy
| City, Pottsville, Pinegrove, Reading,
Tamaqua and York,
i The autos for the regiments are to
! be used to transport goods from the
| store or railroad station, or from the
! distributing station in the camp. It
lean also be used in emergency cases.
! Fort Bliss is located eight miles from
j El Paso and most of the necessities
I used in camp are brought from the
i latter place.
This city has been asked to con
tribute SIOO to the fund for each
company In the regiment. Companies
D and I of the Eighth are from Har
risburg. The appeal has been made
to the Mayor in each city and to the
newspapers.
Ice Cream Is Causing
Typhoid Says Raunick
Three new cases of typhoid fever to
day were reported to city health
authorities, and Dr. J. M. J. Raunick,
city health officer, said that he be
lieves that infected ice cream is re
sponsible for tha spread of the dis
ease.
Systematic investigations have been
started to determine whether the
germs are in the ice cream before It
is sent to this city. Fourteen cases
of typhoid have heen reported in the
upper end of the county. Twelve of
these are at TVilliamstown.
POSTPONE TENNIS MATCHES
By Associated Press
Forest Hills. I>. 1., Aug. 28.—AH
matches in the national lawn tennis
championship tournament scheduled
at the courts of the West Side Club
here to-day were postponed until to
morrow on account of rain.
MEXICAN RAIDERS
ESCAPE PURSUERS
Cross River With 100 Head
After Chase by Regulars
and N. G. P.
Special to the Telegraph
El Paso, Tex., Aug. 28. —After an
all night chase the Mexican bandits
that invaded the United States in the
Big Bend country Saturday and raided
a number of American ranches, suc
ceeded in making their escape. They
were trailed to the river by the Sixth
Cavalry, who then abandoned the
hunt. The battalions of the Tenth and
Second Regiments, Pennsylvania Na
tional Guard, camped in the Bend,
co-operated with the cavalry troops in
the bandit chase. More than 100
I horses and cattle were driven into
[Continued on Page 7]
Army Completes Design
For New Howitzer More
Powerful Than Those Abroad
Washington, Aug. 28. Designs
for a 9.5 inch howitzer have been
virtually completed and army officers
believe the gun more powerful in
every way than the 11-inch and the
12-inch guns of similar type now in
use abroad. It will have a range of
nearly ten miles. The weapon is taken
from its carriage for transportation
and can be taken down and drawn
over virtually any road or even hard
open ground, and set up again in a
very short time.
It is planned to create two new
j heavy artillery regiments next year
each to be equipped with twelve of the
suns and eventually to have every
army corps of two divisions supported
I by a regiment of 9.5 inch howitzers.
In the Fifth and Ninth regiments
of artillery the army already has two
heavy artillery commands, equipped
with 4.7 inch rifles and six inch
howitzers. The Ninth is a new regi
e»" no"' in process of organization
in Hawaii. Later, it is planned to
•o «<liliMnnal regiments to take
over the big field guns, leaving the
i i i vfi and .\intn to deal exclusively
. with the light howitzers.
An idea of the power of the six
inch howitzers can be gained from
the fact that in actual test it has hurl
ed a projectile through eight feet of
earth, concrete and several feet of
wood backing. The shell carries 20
per cent, of its weight in high ex
! plosives, making c ertain the destruc
| tion of everything within many yards
' when it bursts.
Steam Submarines Being
Built in Europe; Discarded
by U. S. Navy Year Ago
By Special Correspondence
Washington. Aug. 28. lnform
ation has reached the Navy Department
that steam submarines are under con
struction in Europe closely resembling
i the 25-knot boats designed by the
Department a year ago.
The general board disapproved the
design on the ground that the physical
difficulties presented by the necessity
of taking down a smoxestack would
! make the boats slow to submerge and
an easy prey for enemy destroyers.
Full details of the steam submarines
now being built abroad have not been
received. It is generally understood
however, that they embody many of
the ideas first evolved by American
navy constructors in their effort to
produce a 25-knot design.
MOB V. S. FOOTBAM; TEAM
By Special Correspondence
Stockholm, Aug. 27, via London,
Aug. 28. After the AU-American
Association football team playing to
day at Gothenburg, had defeated the
Oergrvte Sports Club, one of the best
teams in Sweden, two goals to one.
a furious mob attacked several of the
American players and threw stones at
their automobiles as they drove to
their hotel. None of the Americans is
reported to have been injured.
TAKES SLAYER TO
SQUIRE INSTEAD
OF TO RAILROAD
Auto Owner Who Knew of
Murder Frustrates Negro's
Plan For Getaway
BROUGHT TO JAIL HERE
Tragedy at Waltonville; Puts
Bullet Through Victim's
Jugular Vein
After murdering William Walker,
aged 25, colored, of Waltonvllle, early
this morning, according to county
authorities who have charged him
with the crime. Cornelius Shephard.
also colored, called up Joseph Ulrich.
garage proprietor in Hummelstown,
for an auto to make a getaway. Mr.
Ulrich. however, had learned of the
murder, and he brought the negro to
the office of Justice of the Peace Rich
ard Ernest at Hummelstown. Later
Constable David Reigle brought the
man to the Dauphin county jail.
The shooting occurred about 1
o'clock this morning at Woltonville.
following an argument. Shephard
used a revolver, it is said, and the
bullet entered Walker's jaw. turned
and cut the jugular vein, so that he
bled to death. Coroner Eckinger is
investigating. The body of the mur
dered man was brought to the morgue
of Karmany and Son, undertakers, of
Hummelst own.
According to Mr. Ulrich. he received
a telephone call from Shephard about
| 1:30 o'clock this morning, asking the
i garage manager to come to Walton
' \ille.
When Ulrich arrived there Shep
hard asked the auto owner to take
him to the Hummelstown station of
| the P. & R.. upon arriving in Hum
j melstown. Ulrich took the negro to
the Squire's office where he was held.
Later Ulrich returned to Walton
ville with Constable Reigle and found
the body of Walker, lying in front of
one of the shacks.
A post-mortem examination was
held at the morgue of Karmany and
Son. undertakers. According to infor
mation received by county authorities,
evidence may be brought out that
Shephard shot Walker while the lat
ter was sitting down, and then with
the aid of a companion carried the
i body to the edge of a quarry hole
1 tilled with water, with the intention
i of concealing it.
Eleven Racing Autos
Pile Up on Speedway;
two Drivers Killed
Special to the Telegraph
Kalamazoo. Mich., Aug. 28. Two
I men were killed and eight others in
jured, one of them fatally, when 11
of 14 automobiles piled up at the first
(turn during the 100-mile race at
| Recreation Park here yesterday aft
! ernoon.
The dead:
Marion Arnold, mechanician, Chi
cago, decapitated.
Jack Peacock, driver, Brooklyn,
both hips broken and head crushed;
died in hospital,
i Probably fatally injured:
' F. E. Marquette, Kalamazoo, me
j chanlcian for Peacock, head injured
i and left leg broken in three places.
Unconscious.
j The accident occurred when Pea
| cock's ear, leading in the race, skld
i ded and struck the fence at the first
(turn. It was overturned and thrown
I squarely across the track. Before
track attendants could signal the
| other drivers. 10 of the machines go
: ing at a terrific rate plowed Into the
i overturned car. Five of them were
completely demolished,
j The car driven by Andy Burt, whose
. mechanician, Marion Arnold, was kill
] cd, was the first to strike that of Pea
; cock. Nine others came into the
wreckage a moment later.
The accident took place on the track
where, in 1911, Lee Oldfield's racing
car plowed through the fence and
killed eight persons.
Four Killed When Auto
Goes Over Embankment
Into Tioga River
Special to the Telegraph
Wellsboro Pa. Aug. 28.—Two men
J and two childen lost their lives and
I four other persons were Injured last
night when an automobile occupied
! by Earl Sherman and family of Endi
! cott N. Y. went over an embankment
| Into the Tioga river near Covington,
| Pa. The dead are:
Earl Sherman, 35 years, captain of
fire police, Endicott; neck broken.
Frank Perry, chauffeur, 32; drown
ed.
Two daughters of Sherman, 2%
years and 5 months; both drowned.
The family was on its way to Lor
enton. Pa., to attend the funeral of
i Mrs. Sherman's mother. Heavy rains
: had fallen during the early part of the
night and a dense fog had risen over
the river. Perry, said to he a careful
and experienced driver, but unfamiliar
with the road, was unable to make a
curve on the down grade on the slip
pery road. The automobile went over
a 12-foot embankment and turned bot
tom up. Tt took 12 men to raise the
car from the bodies beneath It.
Mrs. Becker Is in a hospital at
Blossburg. Pa., in a critical condition.
She sustained a dislocated shoulder
and fractured ribs. Mrs. Sherman es
caped with slight injuries and was able
to attend her mother's funeral.
Bremen Reported Well Out
to Sea by Line Director
Berlin Aug. 28. The Berlin Tage
blatt prints an interview with Direc
tor Lohmann of the company owning
the submarine Bremen In which he
says the Bremen is on her way to
Baltimore and that trade by means of
a submarine fleet soon will be in
creased materially.
The Cologne Gazette says the Bre
men carries a cargo of dyes.
There have been manv reports con
cerning the Bremen. Passengers ar
riving last week from England had a
report tb;it she had been captured by
the British.
RUMANIASIDING
ALLIESDECLARESWAR
ON A US TRIA-HUNGARY
Moved in Accordance With Predetermined Plan, Indicated
by Fact That Her Announcement Is Made on Same
Day as Italy's Declarati on Against Germany; Kaiser
Will Probably Wage War on Rumania Soon, Followed
by Bulgaria and Turkey
WILL FOLLOW PLAN OF CAMPAIGN MAPPED
OUT BY HIGH COUNCIL OF ENTENTE
Action Gives Allies Tremendous Strategic Advantages as
Russians Can Now Swing in on Teutons From North
While Other Armies Push Against Them at Saloniki;
Enters War to Satisfy "National Aspirations"
Berlin, Aug. 28, via London. Germany has declared
war on Rumania.
Berlin, Aug. 28, via London.—Rumania declared war
on Austria-Hungary on Sunday evening, it is announced
officially here.
The announcement follows:
"The Rumanian government yesterday evening
declared war on Austria-Hungary.
"The Federal Council has been convoked for an imme
diate sitting."
London, Aug. 28.—Germany probably will declare war
on Rumania within twenty-four hours, after which Turkey
and Bulgaria are expected to do likewise, according to a
dispatch from the Hague to the Exchange Telegraph Com
pany.
The dispatch from the Hague says the German Federal Coun
i cil met this morning on receipt of the news of Rumania's declaration
i of war against Austria.
The Rumanian legation in Berlin is being guarded by the police,
, the advices stated, as stones were thrown through the windows of
j the Italian embassy in Berlin yesterday.
[Continued on Page 3]
T FROLLEY RUMOR; REVIVED £
1 - Purchase of No. 151 Walnut street, the I
1 s
i
I J I
e£»
1 > acquire the necessary property in the
<L block by Walnut, Second, Rive wberry 1 f
I
1 officials of the trust and railw i i *
| id att who figured in the transactions dc- |
I 1 !
T no »s been made to interest the Valley Railways '
I l - * ropertU s. It is understood, however, that I [
\ •' . into the titles of the F. B. Aldinger, - 1
I ' await and the Adelaide Fox properties. ,»
& AUTO BANDITS GET $4,000
| Detroit Mich., Aug. 28.—Two auto bandits attacked a L
j
9 and < Micd ith Z', COO. I >
I CONFESSES TO I NG MURDER ,
| : hiladelphia, Aug. 28. A murder mystery which has ' ,
I baffle : the police for nearly a week was solved to-day by the
| Elli D. Frigar, 23 years old, a mechani IS
J <
* night while motoring through an unfrequented section of* »
Fairmc . accompanied by his fiancee, Miss 1 l
Syke:;, 20 yearr. old, he was held up by a gang of youn^
i! toughs. He used his revolver in self defense- and killed' '
Edward 80l nd, 23 years old, a railroad brakeman. Frigar
surrendered by advice of counsel. ' »
Harrisburg. Howard Baech, aged 8, was struck by an
automobile and slightly hurt on the Mulberry street bridge,® ►
this afternoon. .
I I
in hi hutche: ;hop at Second and Sayford streets at noon it
caught fire. The loss was $lO. , ►
V llarri.-burg.—Chief of Police J. Thomas Zeil was taken I
I to the Harrisburg Hospital this morning suffering from f >
e 1 —apprn.i'-.'rin —Hr
j MARRIAGI LICENSES
3 Charles Erneiit Key* and Hilda Suzannt Koch, city. I |
p Jerome Henjnmln llchreiiN, llcuvt-r Mntlon, and Jennie May Selbert,
1 HutniiirUlou n.
• Joseph liukintus Jackson, Mitppi-unburu, und Ethel May Druke, Steel
f lon.
Wllliuui (.lark I rn« lord, Suutii Fork, und Ida Belle Gotiihalt, Center, | )
l-'rnnk \\ Intlirop Itcjuuldn, \cn Vork, and Mary Kathryn Jackaoa, city, j
»»>i yyn m w»»n IWQ
12 PAGES CITY EDITION
