131 7s&nSkite ta 1
M VJ Except Showers In Southwest Por-
u ' " . ' t'on; Not Much Change In Tempera-
1 .sixtH year-No. 20i FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. M
I Cnt5- OGDEN CITY, UTAH, MONDAY EVENING, AUGUST 28, 1916. En.cred s.cond-cu.. M,tt.r ,t P,.to,c on,l
I Declaration of War by Rumania I
I Is Followed by a Border Battle I
I Rumania Enters the
j European War On
I I Side of the Allies
I Paris, Aug. 28. 1 1:10 a. m. Rumania declared war
j against Austria-Hungary last night, says a Havas dispatch
S from Berne, Switzerland, which declares that the Wolff Ag-
j. ency at Berlin made the official announcement. Rumania's
j decision to enter the war was reached at a meeting of the
j j crown council held at Bucharest yesterday morning, says a
j ! Havas dispatch from Geneva.
I The Wolff Agency announces that the German federal
! council was convoked immediately after the decision became
jj j known. 1
j i Berlin, Via London, Aug. 28, 1 I :45 a. m. Rumania
j I declared war on Austria-Hungary on Sunday evening, it is
: ? announced officially here.
; Berlin, Aug. 28, via London, 7 : 05 p. m. Germany has
j t declared war on Rumania.
5 i Bucharest despatches received yes-
terday stated that King Ferdinand of
I j Rumania bad convened a conference
of representatives of all the political
: parties, former premiers, former pres-
Jdents of the legislative chambers,
, ministers and government representa
tives with the idea of ascertaining the
views of all sections of public opin
! ion.
! The Wolff bureau, which first made
the announcement that Rumania bas
cast her fortunes with the entente al
ii lies, is a semi-official German news
agency which frequently is used as an
I, avenue for making public official an
:i nouncoments.
H Gateway Is Opened.
' Rumania thus becomes the four-
' teenth nation to join in the war. Her
) intervention either on the side of the
i entente allies or the central powers
i has been awaited with symptoms of
concern by both sides since the begin-
I3 ning of the great conflict. This is
due not entirely to Rumania's military
strength, but also to the strategic ad
vantages of her geographical position
i and the fact that her entiy into the
j struggle opens to the Russian army a
; gateway through to Rumania to at-
5 tack the Bulgarians from the north,
while the allied army, having its base
at Saloniki. attacks them and their
German allies from the south.
Rumanlsa' Army.
Nevertheless, Rumania's military
strength is by no means Inconslder-
' able. The country has a population
of 6,800,000 and her army has been
estimated at 580,000. It often has
been described as one of the most
thoroughly equipped and disciplined
armies in Europe, but recent informa
tion from Bucharest has thrown some
doubt upon its quality. Lately it has
been stated the Rumanian officers
' have been Ill-trained and disciplined,
that Rumania is lacking in artillery,
and that its flying service is inferior.
Some advocates of Rumania's par
ticipation in the war have asserted
6 that she could mobilize as many as
H 1,000,000 men. The mobilization or
'i her armv has been in progress for
jj months and a few days ago was re
ft ported to be complete.
National Aspirations.
;t The motive which prompts Rumania
( to enter the war is the satisfaction
1 of "her national aspirations," de
scribed bv Tako Jonescu, the Ruman
j Ian liberal leader, "as the policy of
; national expansion." In the southern
fl half of Bukowina, the Austrian crown
) land, the Rumanians are the dominant
race. The mass of the people o east
:V ern Transylvania, a part of Hungary,
f. is Rumanian by race and language.
It Is said 4,000,000 Rumanians live in
I .Transylvania.
I Rumania has been credited with a
1 long cherished ambition to annex
l" these provinces "and at the same time
i "liberate" the Rumanians now under
Austrian domination. Recently It
was reported Russia had offered Czer
f nowitz to Rumania as a reward if she
-, would unite with the entente.
Rumania also covets Bessarabia, the
t extreme southwestern province or
;:i Russia on the Black sea, which was
f taken from her by the Berlin treaty
'j of 1878. Reports have stated that
; Russia also has consented to resore
i Bessarabia as a war prize with Its
!' population of 2,000,000 mostly Ru-
manlanB, and an area of 20,000 square
' miles. This, with Transylvania, would
; give Rumania a total population ap
jt proachlng 13.000,000 and, should all
i' her aspirations be satisfied, a terrl
. tory would be gained for her nearly
as great as England, Scotland and
; Wales.
On Border Line.
Rumania has a border lino as long
as the whole Russian western war
- front on which to choose her point o
military attack, in what direction
her first blow might be aimed Is only
indicated by her desiro to pour her
' troops through the passes of the
Transylvanlan Alpa and tho Carpa
thians Into Transylvania, On the otn-
er hand Austria has been concentrat
ing military forces at Orsova prepar
ed to attempt to force the "Iron gates"
where the Danube river touches the
western Rumania border.
Bulgaria is said to have stationed
100,000 or more troops along the south
rn bank of the Danube to protect her
lorthern frontier from a Rumanian
Invasion.
Apprehension in Germany that Ru
mania intends to permit a Russian
army to march through her territory
o attack the Bulgarians has been ap
parent for some time. Military au
thorities In Budapest assert that the
chief factor for the consideration of I
j the central powers is not the half
million or more men of the Rumanian
army, but the opportunity offered for
i a new Russian invasion of Hungary.
Rumanian sympathizers In Transyl
vania have been sent to other sections
and the Russian priests and churches
there have been kept under military
supervision. The Transylvania-Rumania
frontier defenses have , been
strengthened by Austria as a precau
tion against Rumanian invasion.
Powerful influences on the part of
the central powers nnd the entente
allies have been exerted at Bucharest
to influence her decision in the war
for the last two years. Recently re
ports from tho Rumanian capital have
stated that Rumania awaited only the
beginning of the Anglo-French offen
slvo in Macedonia before joining her
fortunes with those of the entente
allies.
Another reason for delay in her de
cision, it is said, has ben lack of am
munition, which now has been relieved
by large supplies coming from Japan
by the way of Vladivostok, according
to recent reports.
Amsterdam, Aug. 28. Via London,
1:48 p. m. The note declaring that
Rumania from 9 o'clock Sunday even
ing considered herself in a state of
war with Austria-Hungary, was pre
sented to the Austria-Hungarian for-J
eign minister last night by the Ru-(
manian minister at Vienna, wTho per
sonally visited the ministry of foreign
affairs, according to a dispatch rc-i
ceived here today from the Austrian
capital.
A later message from the same
source says word has been received
from Berlin that the German govern,
ment will hand his passports to tho
Rumanian minister today.
The dispatch from The Hague says
the German Federal council met this
morning on receipt of the news of
Rumanln's declaration of war against
Austria.
The Rumanian legation In Berlin In
being guarded by the police, these ad
vices say, as stones were thrown
through the windows of the Italian
embassy in Berlin yesterday.
Declaration Causes Satisfaction.
Londbn, Aug. 2S. The Rumanian
declaration of war, though expected
in some quarters, caused much satis
faction in financial circles generally.
The recent decline of five per cent
in Russian exchange was attributed
to the possibility of such action, but
American buying of rubles through
here in the last few days, was the
chief factor in weakening the rate
and the market expects further de
clines in the near future.
Rumania to Bear Brunt.
Washington, Aug. 8. Many gener
al staff officers believe Bulgaria will
be called upon to bear tho brunt ot
the attack of Rumania upon Austria
Hungary. According to war department infor
mation, Rumania has war supplies to
last four months. The entire equip
ment of the Rumanian army, unless
changed recently, is of German man
ufacture which may make tho sup
ply problem difficult for the allies.
The only known route for furnishing
munitions is by way of Russia.
It has been reported that Austria-
Hungary has been busy for months
preparing her defenses along the Ru
manian lines, aided by Field Marshal
von Mackensen and German engl
neers. For that reason some officers
believe the Austrian general staff has
determined to hold itself entirely on
the defensive in the new war, endav
ing to prevent the pouring of Rus
sian troops down into the plains of
Hungary by way of Rumania.
For that reason, many offipers here
look for a fierce Bulgarian drive into
Rumania as soon as "war Is declared
between these two nations.
Bucharest, -the Rumanian capital,
lies in an open plain within 70 miles
of the Bulgarian frontier. It can be
defended, army officers believe, only
by a great field army and offers an
object for a drive.
Officials here expressed no surprise
at Rumania's action which was known
to be dependent upon Italy's declara
tion of war. The existence of a secret
alliance between Italy and Rumania
as affecting the Balkans has been
known here for same time.
A declaration of war by Greece
would not be surprising. It is said
the great element of caution which is
thought to have restrained Greece in
recent months, has been removed and
j Greece will want her share in the Bal
kan spoils.
Rumanian Given Passports.
Petrograd, Aug. 28 (via London,
5:45 p. m,) The Rumanian minis
ter at Vienna called at the Dalplatz
yesterday and received his passports,
says a telegram received by the Ex
change Telegraph company despatch
from the Austrian capital by way of
The Hague. The minister is leaving
Vienna today for Bucharest by spe
cial train.
The newspapers of Vienna appear
with large blank spaces, the message
adds, showing that all articles deal
ing with Rumania have been cen
sored. Berlin, Aug. 28. Via London, 5:50
p. m. "Fighting has begun between
Rumania and Teutonic troops on the
Transylvanlan frontier, the official an
nouncement of today indicates. Tho
statement says Rumanians have been
taken prisoner. The announcement
says the Rumanians were captured
on the Transylvanian frontier.
Tho only reference to the military
situation on this front in the war re
ports of the general staff today Is as
follows-
"On the frontier of Transylvania
Rumania prisoners were taken."
Crown Council Meeting.
London, Aug. 2S. 3:40 p. m. The
meeting of the Rumanian crown coun
cil at which the decision to declaro
war on Austria was reached, was held
at the Controceni Palace. King Fer
dinand presided and the session was
prolonged several days. The council
consists of nineteen members, of
whom it is believed four to six op
posed intervention.
Besides conferring with the crown
council with whom the final decision
rested, King Ferdinand had prolong
ed conferences with the leaders of
all Rumanian political parties, in
cluding those favorable to interven
tion and those who had been strong
supporters of Rumania continuing
her neutrality.
The Rumanian military officials had
discussed for several days what prob
ably would bo the first step taken
i when war was declared and had dis
missed all alien employes, many of
whom were Germans. An especially
large number of Germans were em
ployed in the technical services.
Bulgaria and Turkey to Act.
London, Aug. 28 (2:47 p. m.) Ger
many probably will declare war on
Rumania within 24 hours, after which
Turkey and Bulgaria are expected to
do likewise, according to a despatch
from The Hague to the Exchange
Telegraph company.
s
Rumania has entered the war with
tho entente allies. Official announce
ment is made at Berlin that tho ex
istence ot a state of war with Austria
Hungary was proclaimed in Buchar
est yesterday evening. An indication
that Rumania moved in connection
with a pre'determined plan of the en
tente allies is found in the fact that
her declaration of war was made on
the same day as Italy's declaration
against Germany.
The official announcement from
Berlin adds, that on receipt of the
news of Rumania's action, tho federal
council was called for an immediate
session
Despatches from Athens indicate
that popular feeling Is stirred deeply
by occupation of Greek territory by
Bulgarian forces, although this move
was sanctioned by the Greek govern
ment. Little information Is released by
the censorsin regard to tho campaign
on tho Macedonian front. The Bul
garians, claiming consistent gains on
the western end of the line, are
lengthening the front and pushing in
to Albania,
Russian Attack Repulsed.
Berlin, Aug. 28 (via London, 3:30
p. m.) A Russian attack yesterday
in Volhynia before Lutsk, was re
pulsed, according to the war office
announcement today, which says:
"Near Lenncwaden, on the Dvlna
front, an advance by a patrol result-
ed In the capture of two officers and
1.37 men.
I "Northeast of Svlniusky in the
' Lutsk salient, Austro-Huugarlan rtoops
repulsed attacks of Russian detach
t.ments. "North of the Dniester river strong
' ( Russian detachments advanced to the
- attack during the evening. Tempor
ary success on the part of the enemy
I near Delejow was completely effaced
by a counter-attack In the night,
t "Further north between Tustobady
and Zawalow, enemy troops were pre-
vented by our curtain of fire from
1 developing their attack beyond the
positions from which they attempted
to advance
"In the Carpathians Russian troops
which advanced against tho ridge
1 northwest of Kokul and on the Star
awlpczna height were repulsed."
Rumanians declaration of war
against Austria-Hungary was followed
swiftly by military action. Tho offi
cial German announcement of today
indicates that a new campaign along
I the Hungarian-Rumanian frontier is
under way. The statement says Ru
manians have been taken prisoners on
the frontier.
German Troops Repelled.
Petrograd, Aug. 28 (via London,
3:20 p. m.) Attacks made by Ger
man troops at two points on the north
ern part of the Russian front were
repelled, according to today's war of
fice announcement, which says:
"On Saturday north of Koldycheva
lake enemy columns attempted to
launch an attack, but owing to our
artillery fire, were compelled to re
turn to their trenches.
"On the river Shara, south of the
Earanovichi-Luuimnlets railway, the
Germans with a force of about two
battalions, launched an attack. The
enemy forces were repelled.
"On the Stokhod south of Stoby
khov, our scouting patrols surround
ed an Austrian field post, part of
which was ruptured.
"North of Mariampol our troops
captured the wood of Deleiuv, where
they consolidated themselves. In this
operation we took prisoner one officer
and 37 men. We captured two ma
chine guns."
Turks Driven Out.
"Caucasion front:
"On the line from Kyghia to Lake
Van our detachments drove out the
Turks from trenches on the bank of
the river Masla Darasi and crossed
to the western bank.
"North of Bitlis the enemy was re
pelled to the southwards. We took
In this operation eleven officers and
200 Askaris and captured three ma
chine guns.
"In the direction of Mosul we are
pressing the Turks in the regions of
Neri and Sakklz."
Greek Steamer Sunk.
London, Aug. 28 (4.20 p. ra.) The
Greek steamship Leandros, 1,569 tons,
has been sunk, according to a de
spatch from Valencia, Spain, to
Lloyd's Shipping Agency. The crew
was saved.
Germans Meet Repulse.
Paris, Aug. 2S. 12 noon. The Ger
mans made several attacks on the
French positions at Fleury last night,
but were repulsed, says today's an
nouncement of the war office.
Heavy Action on Somme Front.
London, Aug. 2S, 4:25 p. m. No
large actions on the Somme front arc
reported In today's official announce
ment which says:
"In spite of indifferent weather,
some progress has been made east of
Delvllle wood and in minor successful
enterprises near Mouquet farm.
"Last night there was much shell
ing against parts of our line, especial
ly in Dolville wood, and on our
trenches north of Pozleres. Our artil
lery also was active."
Berlin, Aug. 28. Via London, 5:50
p. m. British nnd French troops made
determined attacks on the German
positions in the region of tho river
Somme on the westerin front, says the
official statement issued today by the
German general staff. The attack
failed, tho statement says, partly duo
to hand-to-hand fighting and partly
on account of German attacks.
oo
CHINESE ENTER
MUNITION PLANT
Paris, Aug. 28 (2:14 p. m.) One
thousand Chinese, laborers arrived at
Lyons today. They constitute the
first contingent of Chinese who are
to be brought to France for work in
munition factories.
uu
SAD AUTO ACCIDENT.
Chicago, Aug. 2S. In trying to avoid
running down two farmer boys, Wil
Mam Wilder yesterday turned his au
omobile into a ditch killing his own
hild and seriously injuring his wife.
Mrs. Wilder was carrying the baby
In her arms when the" accident occurred.
Railroad Men Ordered I
to Go Out on Strike on I
Labor Day, September 4 I
Washington, Aug. 28. Labor Day, September 4, is the!
date fixed for the strike in the tentative orders prepared by the
railroad brotherhoods and carried home by the members of the
committee of 640 when they left Washington yesterday.
It was learned today that the brotherhood leaders de
clared negotiations must end "one way or another before
Labor Day" and selected the holiday with a-view to having
two million or more workers in all lines of labor march in great
demonstrations in favor of the strikers' cause.
Washington, Aug. 2S. President
Wilson's plan for breaking the dead
lock between the railroads and their
employes as discussed in conference
today, was as follows:
An eight-hour law for railroads to
become effective at a date far enough
in tho future to give the railroads
opportunity to prepare for It.
A law patterned after the Canadian
act which creates a commission of
investigation and prevents lockouts
or strikes while an industrial dispute
Is being investigated.
This plan was discussed by the
president with his party leaders in
congress as the basis for the next step,
after the railroad managers have for
mally announced their refusal to ac
cept the plan of settlement the presi
dent previously proposed. They
were expected to do this at 2:30
o'clock this afternoon, at a White
House conference.
. Meanwhile congressional leaders
gave up hope of adjournment this
week and settled down to stay here
as long as necessary to provide legis
lation to meet the strike situation,
Senator Newlands and Commissioner
Chambers of the federal mediation
board, conferred today with Acting
Attorney General Todd about the leg
islative program, but all denied that
any legal measures for preventing a
strike had been, discussed.
While the president has not finally
given up hope of bringing about an
agreement through direct negotiations
ho is going forward with his prepara
tions for taking his plan for legisla
tion before congress.
Up to the present, the railroad of
ficials have based their objections to
the president's plan on the ground
that the entire controversy should be
submitted to arbitration.
It was understood today that many
proposals of different form have been
presented to the railway executives
through the White House, but that
they have all been met with the state
ment that the railroads stood for ar
bitrating the whole controversy.
If all the negotiations fail and the
president goes before congress, prob
ably tomorrow or Wednesday, It is
said he will reveal the details of all
the negotiations in his address and
his plan for legislation.
At four o'clock this afternoon, after
his conference with the railway ex
ecutives, President Wilson planned to
go to the capitol again to confer with
the Democratic steering committee of
senators regarding the proposed legislation.
After his conference with Mr. Todd,
Senator Newlands went to the capitol
with tentative drafts of the proposed
legislation and conferred with Sen
ator Cummins, one of the Progressive
Republican leaders, and a member of
the Interstate Commerce Committee.
Senators advised of the legislative
proposals brought to the capitol by
Senator Newlands said they also in
cluded provisions that there should be
no increases without first submitting
them to the Interstate Commerce
Commission and authorization should
be given to the commission to grant
an Increase in rates corresponding to
any increase in pay that might be de
termined upon. It also provides en
largement of the Interstate Commerce
Commission to nine members. All
the proposals have been embodied In
one bill.
At 2:30 o'clock the sub-committee
of eight executives composed of the
Messrs. Holden, Ripley, Willard,
Smith, Attorbury, Harrison, Trumbull
and Lovett, went to the White House
to confer with President Wilson. It
was not then certain that they would
present the formal reply to his plan
they had prepared.
Committee of Eight Meets.
The committee of eight conferred
with President Wilson an hour nnd
afterward Hale Holden as spokesman
said that a statement would be given
out by the executives inside an hour,
but that it would mot bo a final state
ment. Mr. Holden Indicated that tho plan
of the executives to present the pres
ident a written statement, practically
turning down his plan, had been
changed. Mr. Holden refused to state
whether the executives planned to see
the president again or to indicate
their plans in any way.
Administration officials said the
president's negotiations with' the exec
utives had not been broken off and
that consideration of the question
would be continued.
At 4 o'clock President Wilson ar
rived at the capitol and went into con
ference with the Democratic leaders
of the senate.
Brotherhoods Charge Inconsistency.
The four brotherhood heads issued
a statement replying to President
Rea of the Pennsylvania, who last
night made an announcement that,
rather than give up arbitration, the
roads preferred to face a strike. The
statement charged the Pennsylvania
with inconsistency in that two years
ago it fought the efforts of its shop
men to organize "and arbitrage. It
also declared that, as -the controlling
interest in five smaller roads, it has
refused representation on the man
agers' conference committee and that
if arbitration were agreed upon it
would not apply to these roads.
Congress to Remain In Session.
Resigned to remaining in Washing
ton .to undertake any legislation neces
sary in the railway crisis, members
of congress today were studying the
problem and waiting word from Pres.
ident Wilson.
Some Progressive Republicans de
clared that, in their opinion, in the
event of a strike the president would
ask congress to direct federal receiv
erships to operate the railroads during
the conflict. Probability of legisla
tion for government ownership was
too remote to be considered in this
crisis, they declared. Compulsory ar
bitration, they think, might be pro
vided, but never would be enforced.
Senator Kern, the majority leader,
said all hope of an adjournment next
Friday had been abandoned.
Congress Forces Mobilized,
i All government forces were mobll
. ized early today in an effort to pro
vent a strike on the nation's railroad
systems. President Wilson's person
al efforts to mediate differences be
tween the union brotherhoods and
the managements apparently had
failed, but administration leaders in
congress were intently consftierlng
legislation which would make a strike
improbable at this time.
A joint session of congress to hear
the president's statement of the sit
uation was In prospect, following Mr.
Wilson's visit to the capitol last night
to confer with Senator Kern, the ma
jority leader.
Strike Orders Circulated.
The course of the brotherhoods was
in the hands of twenty-four, whom
the entire committee of G40, before
leaving for their homes yesterdaj',
Instructed to listen to no proposal
Involving arbitration of tho eight
hour basis today. Strike qrders were
being circulated today to await tele
graphic release.
The proposal for arbitration was to
be made to tho president today by
the railway executives as their defni
nite answer to his suggestion of a
week ago for concession of tho eight
hour day with ten hours' pay and
arbitration of other issues. As soon
as the employes' committee has re
jected tho executives' counter pro
posal, the president Is expected to
set in motion the congressional wheels
through the leaders in both houses.
Framing Strike Bill.
To this end, Senator Newlands,
chairman of the interstate commerce
committee, and Secretary Lane, after
extended conferences with the presi
dent, worked through a great part of
last night framing bills affecting the
railroad situation.
It was reported President Wilson
was considering asking both sides
postponing legislation for a certain
period. Meanwhile it might bo pos
sible to enact legislation similar to
the Canadian law providing for in
vestigation of labor disputes by a
commission and forbidding strikes or
lockouts pending inquiry. This, course
was being discussed seriously with
the possibility that It would be put
into Immediate effect, thus prevent- jH
ing a strike without adequate public
Investigation.
3RD AD' STRIKE JM
Railroads Forcing Strike.
W. G. Lee, head of the trainmen
today Issued a statement declaring
that the brotherhoods had no inten
tion of arbitrating the eight-hour work
day.
"It seems evident," the statement
said, "from pres3 reports this morn-
ing that the railway companies repre
sented here are detremlned to forca I jH
a strike rather than accept the com- jH
promise settlement offered by Presl
dent Wilson. IH
"The organizations refuse positive
Iy to arbitrate the question of an
eight-hour day because we now have
an eight-hour day in effect on many j
of the southern and southwestern tt
roads and do not propose to arbitrate J
whether we shall retain something
that we had had for yearB and that
we secured peacefully.
"The railways' Tormer claim that
our request would cost a hundred mil- ,
lion dollars 'has been split fifty-fifty jH
and we are reminded of the statement 'H
'that figures won't lie but liars will
figure.'
The railways know full well that
the eight-hour day, as offered by Presi- I
dent Wilson, would not cost twenty- jH
million per annum if properly applied
on the property.
"We are still the guests of President
Wilson and will remain here." 'H
f" - :?r r I
Strike Situation Perilous. '
Washington, Aug. 28. President '
Wilson's negotiations for averting I
the threatened nation-wide rallwav i
strike were this morning in the laBt
stage with a break, or a settlement,
apparently not far off. With the I
railway executives standing firm j.
against conceding the eight-hour day
and the brotherhood leaders still stand- I
Ing out against arbitration, the hope I
of preventing a tie-up of thecoun- 1
try's transportation systems seemed I
to lie with congress. '
Just what can be done, none of the !'
congressional leaders themselves '
seem to "know. Conferences among ,
them and with President Wilson, S
which began last night, were contin- f
ued today and the president postpon- ''H
ed his engagement with the railway
executives from 10 o'clock this morn- j
ing until 2:30 o'clock this afternoon j
to give him more time for conferences '
with leaders In congress. '
The situation was viewed on all
sides as the most perilous since the '
negotiations began two weeks ago.
The hope of the president and admin- if
istratlon leaders was in the possibil- jj
ity of getting the brotherhood men lo ;
give more time to continue the nego- '
tiations. !
GLOOM REIGNS
AMONG GREEKS
Athens, Aug. 27 (31 a. m., via Lon- j
don, Aug. 28, 7:45 a. m.) The land-
Ing of the first contingent of Italian ;
troops at Chlmara, a small seaport jH
of Albania on the Strait of Otranto, V
causes gloom throughout all Greece. !
The Greeks now not only see all of
! Macedonia in the hands of the Bui- , -H
gars, whom they expelled from there
three years ago, but northern Eplnis
In the bands of the Italians.
Following the landing of the Italian 'H
troops, the Greek civil officers were ;
temporarily relieved of their func-
tlons, and the telegraph wires wero ;
cut, but this damage was soon re-
paired. M. Pachitah, the former Ser- j
hi an premier, has gone to Chalkis
to pay his respects to King Peter. il
FLAWLESS FIELDING RECORD. lH
Boston, Aug. 28. A record for flaw- I'l
less fielding was claimed by sporting ifll
writers here today for Sherwood iH
Magee, left fielder of the Braves. HH
Without an error in 78 games, Magee IH
has accepted 170 chances perfectly. IH
The best previous fielding record DH
available here shows that in 1908 I
Schulte of the Chicago Cubs, made I
only one error in 125 chances j
NO BRITISH DESTROYER LOST.
London, Aug. 29, 5:40 p. m. The
British admiralty today mado denial
of a German wireless report of last
week that Dutch sailors had sighted, H
east of the Doggerbank, a British . jH
destroyer which had been abandoned ,
by her crew and was sinking.
"There has been no engagement of '
any sort," the admiralty statement
says. "No 'British destroyer is , ifl
I QNACCOUNT OF THE LACK OF SPACE "GLORIA'S ROMANCE" WILL BE RUN TOMORROW I
IjM
