I
W
EVENING
EDITION
VOL. 11, NO. 304.
(via
Berlin.
Rumania.
London. Aug. 28.—Rumonla's declaration of war on Austria-Hun
gary, news of which follows on the heels of Italy's declaration of war
on Germany, makes Rumania the fourteenth nation to join the war.
Her intervention either on the aide of the entente allies or the central
powers has been awaited with symptoms of oonoero on both sides since
the beginning of the great conflict. This was due not entirely to Ru
mania's military strength, but also to the strategic advantages of her
geographical position, and the fact that her entry Into the struggle
opens to the Russian army a gateway through Romania to attack the
Bulgarians from the north, while the allied army, having their base at
Salonlki. attacks tliem and their German allies from the south.
Nevertheless, Rumania's military strength is by no means Inoon
siderablo. The country has a population of 6,800,000, and her army
has been estimated at 580.000. It often Is described one of the most
thoroughly equipped and disciplined armies in Europe, but recent In
formation from Bucharest has thrown some doubt upon Its quality,
however, as some of the advocates of Rumania's participation in the
war asserted that she could mobilize 1,000,000 men.
The mobilizing or Rumania's army has been In progress for
months. A few days ago it was reported complete.
The motive prompting? Rumania's entrance into the war Is the sat
isfaction of her 'national aspirations," described by Take Jonescu, Ru
manian liberal leader? as a "policy of national instinct."
Colncidentfy, this means national expansion. In the southern half
of Bukowina, Austrian crown land, the Rumanians are the dominant
race, llie mass of the people In eastern Transylvania, part of Hun
gary, Is Rumanian by race and language^ It is mid that 4,000,000 Ru
manians live In Transylvania.
.mpm^la h*^ been ciedifced nilk.ft l^xteUM mbtttiQ to an
nets theft provinces, and
-at
They also delivered an assault in Ap
remont forest In Lorraine. In each
PLAXS TO CEASE WORK BY FRI
DAY NOT MATURING—SEN ATOR
OVERMAN OF NORTH CARO­
Washington, Aug. 28.—Plans for ad
journment of congress next Friday
are not maturing as rapidly nor as
certainly as majority leaders oo-oper
ating with minority, chieftains had
contemplated. The crisis in the rail
road situation Is the principal obstacle
encountered at the eleventh hour, and
no one last night would predict what
might happen or when the long and
arduous session would end.
Well-laid plans for adjournment at
ths end of the week were In prngrass
Saturday when President Wilson's
visit to the oapitol to talk over plans
for legislation which the threaten ad
railroad strike might demand, dis
turbed all calculations. Leaders are
proceeding, however, on the assump
tion that oongress may adjourn when
it completes the legislative program
now before It unless railroad legisla
tion develops In the meantime to
alter the situation.
The senate has begun the final
drive on the emergency revenue Mil
and will continue consMermtloh ef
amendments today. Senator Under
wood, whose revolt against the Ineome
I tax provisions was defeated Saturday
will make another protest against the
proposed Increased tariffs on dye
stuffs.
Senator Overman of North Carolina
wfll lead a revolt against the proposal
to tax manufacturers of a)l materials
fate munition* of trwr five
mm
their net
mm
GREAT STRATEGICAL OPPORTUNITY
OITEREDiRMIES OF THE ENTENTE
MILITARY STRENGTH NOT TO
UNDER-ESTIMATED REPORTED THAT
RUSSIA OEEERED IFFR CZERNOWITZ
Berlin. Ajig. 28.—-(Via London.)—Rumania deebnd war on Aus
tria-Hun jjary Sunday evening, it wan offldalbr announced here today.
The official announcement is: "The Rumanian government yes
terday ereing declared war on Austria-Hungary. The federal council
has been convened for an immediate sitting."
the samb time "nbecate" the Rumanians
now under Austrian domination. ... ..
It was recently reported that Russia offered Oxernowita to RunMtnia
a reward If she would unite with the entente.
later, a message from the same son roe says that Berlin reports
declare that Germany will hand passports to the Rumanian minister
today.
tote Rumanian legation In Berlin la guarded, as stones were
thrown through the windows of the Italian embassy in Berlin yester
day.
GERMANY TO DBOLARE WAR.
London, Aug- 28.—A dispatch from The Hague says Germany
probably will declare war on Rumania within 24 hours, after which
Turkey and Bulgaria are expected to do likewise.
NO EXCITEMENT IN BERLIN.
Berlin. Aug. 28, (via Ijondon) —Although Italy's declaration of
war against Germany was absolutely unhearalded and its coming was
a complete surprise, it failed to cause the slightest ripple of excite
ment In Berlin.
GREAT ENTHUSIASM IN LONDON.
Condon, Aug. 28.—Rumania's declaration of war, while not unex
pected, aroused the greatest enthusiasm here. Special editions of
newspapers, announcing the event were seized eagerly by street crowds.
GERMANS' DECLARES WAR.
London, 7:05 p. m.)—Germany has declared war on
FIGHTING HAS COMMENCED.
Berlin, Aug. 28.—(Via London.)—Fighting has begun between the
Romanian and Teutonic troops on the Transylvania frontier, the offi
cial announcement Indicates. Hie statement says that Romanians
have been taken prisoner.
It declared that a number of Rumanians were captured on the
Transylvania® frontier.
More Scattered Thrusts.
Paris, Aug. 28.—There was a fur
!tiler development last night of the
Oerman tactics observed recently of
pnalring scattered thrusts along vari
ous parts of the front. Three times
the Germans attacked the Vaux
Ohapltre wood, northeast of Verdun.
Railroad Strike Situation May
Delay Adjournment of Congress
Final Drive on Revenue Measure
LINA TO LEAD REPORT ON
MANUFACTURERS' TAX FEA
TURE.
case, the war office announced today,
they were repulsed. The statement
follows:
"On the Somme front the night
was comparatively oaten. Persistent
bad weather Interfered with opera
tions.
"On the right bank of the Meuse
(Continued on Page 9.)
propose to exempt all agricultural
products from this tax, his amend
ment being designed to prevent tax-r
atlon of cotton which enters Into ex
plosives.
When amendments have been dis
posed of, the senate will lay aside the
revenue bill long enough to pass the
general deficiency appropriation bill
as soon as it comes from the house
Tuesday or Wednesday. With the
last of the appropriations out of the
way and conference reports com
pleted administration leaders hbpe to
pass the revenue bill to defeat mo
tions that will be made to take up the
corrupt practice and immigration
bills and then to adjourn.
So far as known last night the only
legislation that may be pressed af
fMiting the railroad situation Is the
bill to enlarge the interstate com
merce commission from seven to nine
members. Senator Newlands, chair
man of the interstate commerce com
mission, has said he would press that
and the president desires that it be
pMMOd*
There was much informal dtsoussion
of suggertlons to attach to the Inter
state commeroe Mil provMoas for
compulsory arbitration of railroad
disputes and an expression of opinion
on the part of congress that the rail
roads should be entitled to more rev
the eight-hour
in Increase In
operating expenses. Efforts to press
such measures It was deolared, would
provoke long discussion and undoubt
edly hold oongress In. session Indefin
itely. These proposals, it was report
ed, might be given consideration by
the interstate commerce commission
of the senate tomorrow morntag after
which some Idea might be glwtned of
what tbe feture betas for the legial*-
enfcee |f ther aocept
work day involving an In®
tive branch.
M111
1
ranb
NORTH DAKOTA'S
... BUILDER
DIES IN CALIFORNIA
San Francisco, Aug. 28.—An
thony Walsh, who with his sons
built the Rock Island mid Southern
railway, and a snail system in
Iowa, died here yesterday, while
members of the family were- rush
ing west, to be with Mm in bis Ill
ness. He was 88 years old. Inter
ment will be made at Clinton, Iowa.
He was reputed to be worth several
millions.<p></p>HANLY
TO TOUR
FOR TWO MONTHS
Prohibition Presidential
Candidate to Visit Many
Towns.
Chicago, Aug. 28.—The prohibition
special, carrying J. Frank Hanly,
presidential candidate, and Dr. Ira
Landrith, vice presidential candidate,
on a two month's tour, will stop in
600 towns, it was announced at na
tional headquarters today.
It leaves here September 8 and a
dozen towns will be visited in lllinoia
Nine Wisconsin towns will bg visited
on September 9. Leaving Minneapolis
on September 10, the train will pass
through North Dakota, Montana and
Idaho.
NO GOLD IN CARGO
OF DEUTSCHLAtiD
Baltimore, Md., Aug. 28.—Contrary
to reports there was no gold in the
cargo of the submarine Deutschland,
which sailed for Germany August 1,
according to the submarine's manifest
made public today at the custom
house.
AUTO RACE IS
FATALTO TWO
Eleven of Fourteen Cars Pile
Up in Contest at
Kalamazoo.
Kalamaaoo, Mich., Aug. 28.—Two
meg, were killed and eight others in
jured, one of them fatally, when
eleven of the fourteen automobiles
piled up at the first turn during the
100-mile vaoe at Recreation Park
here yesterday afternoon. The dead:
Marlon Arnold, mechanician, Chi
cago, decapitated.
Jack Peacock, driver, Brooklyn,
both hips broken and head crushed
died In hospital.
Probably fatally injured: F. E.
Marquette, Kalamazoo, mechanician
for Peacock, head Injured and left
leg broken In three places. Unconsci
ous.
The others injured are: Harold W.
Downs, Kalamasoo. driver, cut about
face anl head. Roy Newton. Kalama
zoo, mechanician for Downs, cuts on
face and head. Thomas Ball, Cold
water. Mich., driver, back Injured.
Guy L. Bailey. Coldwater, Mich.,
mechanician for Ball, face and back
Injured.. Jimmy Alexander, Sioux
City, la., mechanician, badly bruised.
Andy Burt, driver, Chicago, badly
bruised. Otto Hennlng, driver, Chi
cago, minor injuries.
The accident occurred when Pea
cock's car, leading in the race,
•kidded and struck the fence at the
first turn. It was overturned and
thrown squarely across the track.
Ten of the machines going at terrific
clip (Houghed into the wreckage.
BULGARIAN FORCES
INVADING ALBANIA
Berlin, Aug. 28. (by wireless to
Sayvllle)—Bulgarian forces are in
vading Albania and have oecupled
Malik, ten miles west of the Greek
border, a statement Issued yesterday
at Sofia reports. Occupation of ter
ritory In northeastern Greece con
tinues, and further Bulgarian detach
ments hawe reached the Aegean sea.
Repulse ef a SerMan attack In the
Meglsalsa •slier, on the western part
the mitt, Is.announced.
-i "5
"r t•:
CONGRESS ONLY HOPE IN RAILWAY CRISIS
RUMANIA DECLARES WAR ON AUSTRIA-HUNGARY-ARMY MOBILIZED
SUATABt^LAN BEAUTY
IS CUSTER SLEUTH
Senora bus Mendes.
Senora Lux Mendez, daughters of
the Guatemalan minister to the Uni
ted States, aided New York detectives
in recovering her stolen Jewels and
declared afterward that she liked
the thrills of the chase. She is said
to have accompanied detectives into"
criminal haunts In order to identify
the thief.
TWO FIREMEN LOSE
LltfES
IN
Milwaukee,
firemen were'
early yesterday
did damage estlmi
000 to $160,000
ANOMALOUS SITUATION, WHICH
HAS EXISTED FOR MONTHS, IS
ENDED—SIMPLY RECOGNITION
OF STATE OF AFFAIRS WHICH
ALREADY EXISTED.
ROME—ITALY LATE YEOTERAY
DEOLARED WAR ON GERMANY.
Berlin, Aug. 28.—(By Wireless to
Sayvllle)—The following official an
nouncemett was made last night:
"The Italian government has de
clared through the Swiss government
that it considers itself from August
28 at war with Germany."
Italy and Germany have been drift
ing steadily toward war. In fact,
Italy's formal declaration amounts to
little more than official recognition of
a state of affairs which already exist
ed. The declaration became inevita
ble when Italy recently sent troops to
Salonlki to co-operate in the cam
paign of the Entente allies on the
Macedonian front, as Germany is di
recting the opposing forces and has
troops on the battle line.
Italy's position in regard to Ger
many has been an anomalous one
since Italy withdrew from the triple
alliance May 28, of last year, and de
clared war on Austria. Although by
this act she arrayed herself against
her former allies, Germany and Aus
tria, .she remained officially at peace
with Germany until yesterday. Before
Italy took this step Germany exerted
every effort to Induce her to remain
neutral, sending to Rome as ambas
sador Prince von Buelow, one of the
ablest statesmen of Germany. The
prince for some time averted war be
tween Austria and Italy, and when he
saw a rupture was Inevitable took
steps toward preservation of an official
g[e
eace between Germany and Italy,
negotiated a special agreement un
der which, in case of war between
Austria and Italy. Germany and Italy
pledged themselves to respect the
properties and lives of their respective
subjects in each other's domains. This
meant for Germany a guarantee of
many millions of dollars. worth of
properties In Italy and for Italy the
safety of 80,000 Italian subjects in
Germany.
According to unofficial reports from
Europe, Italy's allies were dissatis
fied and at the Paris council of En
tente powers In Fefreuarjr last asked
tkinWQiB representatives why their
nation was not at war with Germany.
Italy already had agreed not to con*
elude a separate peace, and at the
Paris conference sanctioned the plan
for a permanent high council of the
Entente powers for future conduct of
the war. The Increasing eo-ope ration
IHDMF the entente allies and the
$
(Continued op Page
&
BLAZE
ig. 28.—Two
arurt^rur injured
batting fire which
ed at from $12$,
[t the plant of the
MUwaukee Piano Manufacturing
company, Second street and Keefe
avenue. One of them. Lieutenant
Dennis Moroney, was suffocated while
trying to locate the blaze In a smoks
charged room. The other. Captain
Arnt NeBsheim, gave his life in an at
tempt to save his comrade. The in
Jury of Anton Roseneck, Frank Trze
biatkowski, John Hogan and Joe
Cwikllnskl, occurred while the men
were on their way to the Are when
the rear of their ladder truck was
crashed into a street car.
Italy Officially Declares That She
Is at War With Germany Inevitable
Since Sending of Troops to Balkans
GREATEST NEWSPAPER
GRAND FORKS, N. Du MONDAY EVENING, AUGUST 28, 1916. TWELVE PAGES—PRICE FIVE CENTS.
NORFOLK AND WESTERN
ROAD LOSES ITS CASE
Washington, Aug. 28.—The Inter
state Commeroe Commission held
today that the Norfolk and West
ern railway must be excluded from
an interest In the operation of the
Old Dominion Steamship company
and the Virginia Navigation com
pany under the Panama canal act,
prohibiting railway ownership of
waterway
lines.<p></p>WARTHCR
TOWERS MARKET
Wheat Prices in Chicago fall
Off Following Rumania's
Stand.
Chicago, Aug. 28.—Rumania's dec
laration of war smashed the wheat
market, the opening prices falling in
some cases, 6 3-4 cents bushel. Later
some of the loss was recovered.
The feeling that Dumania's en
trance might hasten the conclusions
of war and might also favor the
opening of the Dardanelles, releasing
Russian frheat, created a bearish
market.
BATTLE OF MARNE MARKED.
Guide Posts to Point Way Where
Fighting Was Fiercest.
Paris, Aug. 28.—At Meaux, near the
point where in the battle of the
Marne. von Kluck's army turned away
abruptly when approaching Paris, a
committee hats been formed to organ
ize the reception of battlefield visitors.
Guide posts are to be set up showing
the way and the distance to those lo
calities wherfe the fighting was fierc
est and most decisive.
MEXICAN BOARD
LEAVES EOR N. V.
Commission to Meet With
American Mediators
Leaves Mexico City.
Mexico City, Aug. 28.—The Mexi
can commissioners who are to en
deavor to settle with an American
commission points in dispute between
the United States and Mexioo depart
ed for New York yesterday. Lewis
Cabrera, president of the Mexican
commission, accompanied by James
Linn Rodgers, the American repre
sentative to the Carransa govern
ment, proceeded to Vera Cruz,
"whence they will sail tomorrow for
Key West on board the United States
transport Dixie. Alberto J. Panl and
Ignaclo Bontllas, the other members
of the commission proceeded for Sal
tlllo, where they are expected to ar
rive today. On reaching Saltlllo they
will decide whether to take the Eagle
Pass or Laredo route.
Before departing Senor Cabrera
and Mr. Rodgers conferred with Gen
eral Carransa, Minister of War Obre
gon and Foreign Minister Aguilar,
who were at the station to see them
off.
MUCH GRAIN IS
PESTROYED IN FIRE
iUs
Green Bay, Wis.,
proximately 820,000 bushels of oats
and 80,000 bushels of rye, valued at
$186,000, were destroyed by fire when
the Cargill Grain company's elevator
burned here today. The building was
valued at 8160,000, making the total
loss 9*45,000, all covered by Insur
ance. The cause of the lire has net
been determined.
66 FRENCH DIVISIONS
IN VERDUN SECTOR
Berlin, Aug. 28.—A semi-official
announcement yesterday says that be
tween February 21 and July 20 there
were engaged In the Verdun sector
French divisions, nearly 800,000 men.
In the battle of the Somme, the an
nouncement says, the French have 28
dlvisteM and the BrttUh ST.
I
HE-UP HANGS IN BALANCE, AS HE
PKSDENT AND SENATE IfADERS
CONSW POSSHEJMATBN
smmniiMmraiis
"A
9H MljOIUINK KHIt CM
MWKMIMSMIff*
Washington. Aug1. 28.—Wilson's plan for breaking
the deadlock, as discussed in conferences today, is:
"An eight-hour law for the railroads, becoming effec
tive at a date far enough in the future to give the railroads
an opportunity to prepare for it.
law patterned after the Canadian act, which cre
ates a commission of investigation and prevents lock-outs
and strikes, while an industrial dispute is being investigat
ed."
This plan was discussed by Wilson and his party lead
ers in congress as a basis for the next step afte- the rail
road managers formally announced their refusal to accept
the plan of settlement the president previously proposed.
They expected to do this late this afternoon, at the
White House conference.
Meanwhile congressional leaders settled down this
afternoon to stay here as long as necessary to provide
legislation to meet the strike situation.
Senator Newlands ancl Commissioner Chambers of the
tederal mediation board conferred with Acting Attorney
General Todd about £he legislative program, bui-alt denied
that any legal measures for preventing a strike had been
discussed.
Washington, Aug. 28.—A nation-wide railroad strike In the
balance today. Wilson's efforts to mediate the differences apparently
had fallel, and administration leaders In oongress Intently are con
sidering legislation, which would make the strike ImprobaMe now. A
joint session of congress to hear Wilson's statement on the situation is
In progress.
Before departing yesterday, tiie entire brotherhood committee of
640 left the matter in the hands of a committee of J24, with Instruc
tions to listen to no proposal Involving arbitration of a basic eight
hour day.
Wilson t^day notified the committee of eight railroad executives
who will formally present the railroad's counter proposals, that he
would receive them at 2:30 o'clock this afternoon. Instead of this
morning. The change permits Wilson to hold further conferences on
legislation for presentation to congress.
As the day grew, with both sides standing firm, it became more
evident that the only hope seemed to ue with congress, although cow*
gresslonal leaders themselves hardly knew exactly what could be
The situation Is viewed as the most perilous since the negotiatiat
gan. It was hoped that the brotherhoods would permit more
for negotiations.
The four brotherhood' heads issued a statement replying to
dent Ilea of the Pennsylvania, who last night announced that
than abandon arbitration, the roads preferred to face a strike.
WANT MORE FOR
AMBULANCE UNIT
French Army Officers Re
quest Increase in Ameri
can Units.
New York, Aug. 28.—The French
army authorities have requested that
the American Volunteer Ambulance
Corps, which has done such valuable
service, be increased by mors volun
teers, according to a cablegram re
ceived from Richard Norton, com
mander of the oorpe, by his brother,
Eliot Norton of New York. It has
been asked that Eliot Norton pass up
on the qualification of any men who
desire to voluntser for the corps, and
he has arranged to do this.
The corps began work in France at
the start of the war and for the last
eighteen months It has been doing
regular ambulance servioe tor one of
the French army division*. Lately
the corps received the distinction of
being mentioned in ths general army
orders for "ths constant devotion to
duty of its members and baoause It
has rendered the very gtiatl service
to the army dlvtklo* to whleh It Is at
tached in succoring the wopnfled in
the best possible meaner"
The essential requirements for vol
unteers are that they should be gcted
Americans. In sound health, capabls
of withstanding hardships and doing
hard and trying work In oaring tor
the woundM wtth
out coaaplaint.
'ha
gettlng'UiWalf
The statement charged tJie Pennsylvania with inconsistency In that
two years ago It fought the efforts of Its shop men to organize or ar
bitrate. It also was charged that as the controlling interest in five
smaller roads. It refused them representation on the managers' con
ference committee, and that If arbitration tras agreed upon it would
not apply to these roads.
Resigned to remaining In Washington to undertake any legislation
necessary In the railroad crisis, members of congress today are study
ing the problem and awaiting word from Wilson.
Except the senators who have been in conference with Wilson, no
one has any definite idea as to what he may ask congress to do.
Members of both houses, however, have ideas of their own.
Some progressive republicans declared that, in their opinion, in
the event of a strike. Wilson would ask congress to direct federal re
ceiverships to operate the railroads during the conflict. The possi
bility of legislation for government ownership, is too remote to be
considered in this crisis, they declared.
Compulsory arbitration, they think, might he provided, bat never
has been forced.
House leaders have no program. Senator Kern, majority leader,
said all hope for a Friday adjournment has been abandoned.
-V•
7
EVENING
EDITION
FARGO WOMAN
ACCIDENT
Car Turns Turtle into Ditch
of Water Near Hawley—
Expected to Recover.
(Herald Special Servioe.)
Fargo, N. D., Aug. 28.—Mrs. Frank
DeZellor of this city was severely In
jured yesterday afternoon wben the
Overland automobile which she was
driving skidded and turned turtle la.
the deep ditch three miles west of
Hawley, Minn. Mrs. DeZellor, fo
e-ether
with a oompanlon, was return
ing to this city from Detroit when the
accident occurred. The companion
escaped with slight brulsse, but Mrs.
DeZellor was pinned beneath ths ma
chine In two feet of muddy water.
She was taken to the farm home
Jens Utwn and did not naafai oon
sotonsasss until after 10 cncloek Sun
day night, nearly sevsn hours after
the accident happened. M4ld!snl au
thorities claim that she will rssoMB.
The machine was partially sub
merged In water, one front wheel
wnDn littNlf off iM offcttp
ages resulted. Ths driver
Mrtenoed, It Is claimed, and
driving too fast over the tough
4k
