•'V-"V
i-Reatl
rc
fe,
,, J,'-
4.
&-V
ffiSw
fi:
t-
•:^.i
\i Av ,.:',v.•-• -^VW'.. ..r-.
today's News
Ja Today, for Tomorrow
.:• It Will Be History
VOLUME FORTY-TWO
il
fourteenth Nation to Be
come Involved in
Hostilities.
HAS TRAINED ARMY
EXCEEDING 500,000
Hopes For Territorial Expansion and
to Obtain Portions of Hungary Now
Peopled by Roumanians Russia
Makes Promises of Reward For Par­
ticipation—Italy Finally Makes Dec­
laration of War Against Germany.
Berlin," via London, Aug. 28.—
Germany has declared ..war on Roii
mania.
B*r''nt Aug. 28.—Roumania *de
^"elared war on Austria-Hungary
tjl)
Sunday evening. The announce
rs ment follows:
"The Roumanian government
yesterday evening declared war on
Austria-Hungary.
"The federal council has been
convoked for an immediate sit
*1 ting."
4 The dispatch from The Hague
says the German federal council
7 1
met this morning. The Roumanian
.Legation in Berlin is being guarded
by the police, these advices say, as
atones were thrown thru the win
dows of the Italian embassy Bfin
day.
p-3
Pari?, Aoff. 28.—Roumania declared
war against' Austria-Hungary last
night, says a Havas dispatch from
Berne, which declares that the Wolff
agency at Berlin made the official an
nouricement. .v,*"
The decision11^' enter the war *a»
V~,-r»»clMd ata1meeting of t^^ciwjrn
council yesterday morn
in*
The agency announes that the Ger
man federal council was convoked Im1
mediately after the declaration became
known.
The Wolff bureau which first made
the announcement of Roumanian war
-^.declaration, is a semi-official Germaa
3" news agency which frequently Is used
... as an avenue for making public offl
cial statements.
Fourteenth Nation Involved.
Roumania thus becomes the four
teenth nation to Join In the war. Her
intervention has been awaited with
v- symptoms of concern by both sides
since the beginning of the great con
v. flict. This is due not entirely to Rou
mania's military strength but to geo
graphical locations, opening as she
p. does a gateway for the Russians to
attack the Bulgarians from the north,
while the allied army, having a base
at Salonlki, may attack from the
^South.
Army to Be Factor.
Her military strength, however, is
/'by no means Inconsiderable. Th,e army
has" been estimated at 580,0J2fl men. It
often has been described as one of the
most thoroughly equipped and disci
-pllned armies In Europe but recent in
formation from^ Bucharest has thrown
some doubt upon its quality. Lately
It has been stated that it has no
.heavy artillery and that its flying ser
vice is inferior.
Some-advocates of Roumanla's par-'
tlcipation in the war have asserted
that she could mobilize as many as
1,"000,000 men. The mobilization of the
army has been in progress for months.
Hopes For Expansion.
The motive which prompts Roumania.
leader, as the "policy of national in
stinct." ^Concisely this means na
tional' expansion.
In the'-'southern half of Bukowina,
a ,part of Hungary, is Roumanian by
race and language. It is-said 4,000,000
-Roumanians live Jn Transylvania.
Roumania has been credited with a
^"^Jong-cherished ambition to annex these
"provinces and at the same time "lib
erate" the Roumanians how under
Austrian dominion. Recently it was
reported Russia had offered Czemowitz
to Roum*nia ks a reward if she would
enter the|«r*r. =.
Covata Bessarabia.
::-v
ROUMANIA
t1
the Danube river touches the western
Roumanian'"border
Bulgaria is said to have stationed
100,000 or more troops along the south
ern bank of the Danube to protect her
'frontier. Apprehension in Germany
that Roumania intends to permit the
Russians to march thru her territory
,to attack the Bulgarians has been ap
parent for some time.
New Invasion by Russia.
In Budapest miHtary authorities as
sert that the chief factor for consider
ation of the central powers is not the
half million of men in the Roumanian
army but the opportunity afforded for
a new invasion by the Russians of
Hungary. Roumanian sympathizers in
Transylvania have been sent to other
sections and the Roumanian priests
and churches there have been kept
under military supervision. The fron
tier has been strengthened by Austria.
Powerful Influences on the part of
the central powers and the entente al
lies have been asserted at Bucharest
to influence her decision in the war for
the last two years. Recently reports
from the Roumanian capital have stat
ed that Roumania awaited only the be
ginning of the Anglo-French offensive
in Macedonia in Joining the allies.
Another reason for the delay in her
Joining in the war, it was said, was
lack of ammunition. This deficiency has
ibeen overcorfie by shipments from
Japan, according to-recent reports.
Germany to Make Declaration.
London, Aug. 28.—Germany probably I
will declare war on Roumania within!
twenty-fuur hours, according-to a dis-!
patch from The Hague.
Turkish Drive Checked.
Washington, Aug. 28.—The Turkish!
drive toward Persia, aimed apparent
ly to outflank the Russian armies op
.eratipg in Armenia, is reported in dis
patches received here today to have
been held up at Woe by heavy Russian I
I reinforcements.
The foreign legations in Teheran,!
tho still disturbed, have not yet fled
from the city. This report, taken with
recent Russian successes at Bitiis and
Mush, is taken as to prevent danger
of an invasion of Persia.
France-British Attacks Fail,
Berlin, via London, Aug. 28.—Brit
ish and French troops made repeated
attacks on the German troops last
night on the Somme, According to the
offiolal statement today. The attacks
failed, the statement .says, partly affex.
hand to hand fighting and on account!
of German counter.attacks.
Demonstration Per Venizelos,
Athens, Aug. 28.—Fifty thousand
Greeks Joined in a demonstration be
fore lift residence of Venizelos, the
former preinler^ t^ay.ajq^ cheeraiLhlm
,-^,^S®®wn®^«mIlM61a*m, when he
nff^a them to send a committee to
Kin# Cons tan tine to-urge him to sup
port the present government and pre
pare the army for a "possible rupture
of existing conditions."
ITALY EXTENDS WAR ZONE.
Makea Declaration of Hostilities
Against Germany.
London, Aug. 28.—Italy Sunday de
clared war on Germany. Tho declara
tion has been delivered through the
Swiss government to Berlin, and has
been acknowledged formally by the
German government.
The communication from Rome de
clares that Italy considers herself at
war with the imperial German na
tion from and after Aug. 28.
Balkans Hasten Move.
Roumania also covets Bessarabia,
the' extreme ^southwestern province
of Russia on tlie Black Sea, which was
taken from her 1»y the Berlin treaty of powers in February-last asked the Ital
•vl 878.-Reports )iAVe stated that Austria, ian representatives Why. their nation
t'.Blso his consented to restore Bessarabia, was not at'
Point of. Attack Unrevealed.
Roumania has a border line as long
as "the Whole w%tern front on which
Ato
choose her pofrit of military attack,
er
isln what direction ,her first blow might
Ifil&e- aimed, is only indicated by her de
t-e to pour her troops, thru the passes
on the Transylvania. Alps and the Car-'
.Uhlans into Transylvania. On the
Sbther hand ho
we
ver, A ustHa has been
-%cciHnulatlng farcies at Orsova, prepar-
President Wilson Appears
Helpless in Effort to
Avert Strike.
LAST APPEAL TO
GO TO CONGRESS
Final Step Is to Be Put Up to Legis
lators—Congressional Leaders Do
Italy and Germany" have'been drift-! settlement not far off. With the rail
ing steadily toward war. In fact,
Italy's formal declaration amounts to
little more than official recognition of
a state of affairs which already ex
isted.
The declaration became inevitable
when Italy recently sent troops 4o Sa
lonlki to co-operate in the campaign
of the entente allTes on the Mace
donian front, as Germany is directing
the opposing forces and has troops on
this battle line.
Italy's position in regard to Ger-,
many has been an anomalous one since1 sagement with the railroad
Italy withdrew from the triple alii-1
ance May 25 of last year and declared 'ne'
war on Austria. Although by this act! The situation was viewed on
she arrayed herself against her for.i sides as the most perilous since
mer allies, Germany and Austria, she
remained officially at peace with Ger
many until yesterday.
Rupture Long. Averted.
Before Italy took this step Germany
to enter the war Is the satisfaction of exerted every effort to induce her toj tiations.
"Jier national aspirations." described remain neutral, sending to Rome as Brotherhood Reply to Plea.
by Jonescu. the Roumanian liberal an ambassador Prince von 'Buelow, one! The
Not Know What Can Be Done—Sit
uation at Most Perilous Stage Since
Negotiations Began—Roads rirm
Against Eight-Hour Day.
Washington, Aug. 28.—President
Wilson's plan for breaking the
deadlock between the railways and
their employes, as discussed today,
was as follows:
"An eight hour law for railroads
to become effective at a date far
enough in the future to give the
railroads time to prepare for it.
"A law creating a commission to
prevent a strike while the dispute
is being investigated, patterned aft
er the Canadian act."
This plan was discussed by the
president with his party leaders in
congress as the basis for the next
step after the railway managers
have announced their refusal to ac
cept the president's plun. They,
were expected to do this at a White
House conference.
Meanwhile congressional leaders
gave up hope of adjourning this
week. Senator Newlands and Com
missioner Chambers of the federal
mediation board, conferred today
with Acting Attorney General Todd
about the legislative program, but
all denied that any legal measure
for preventing a strike had been
discussed.
While the president has not given
up hope of success thru direct ne
gotiations, he is going forward with
his plan for legislation js, congress,
At 4 ^o'clock 'this afternoon- and
..flftec Ms juonterenc/* with the rat!
way executives President Wilson
plans to go to the capitol again to
.confer with the democratic steering
committee of senators to discuss
legislation.
At 2:30 the committee of railroad
executives went to the White House
to confer with the president*
After his conference with Mr.
Todd, Senator Newlands went to
the capitol with tentative drafts of
the proposed legislation and con
ferred with Senator Cummins, a
member of the interstate commerce
committee.
Washington, Aug. 28. President
Wilson's negotiations for averting the
threatened nation-wide railroad strike
is in the last stage, with the break or
roads standing firm against conced
ing the eight-hour day, and the
brotherhoods standing out against
arbitration, hope of averting a tie-up
seems to lie with congress.
Just what can be done none of the
congressional leaders themselves seem
to know. Conferences among them
and with President Wilson,- which be
gan last night, were continued today,
aYid the president postponed his en
repre-
mom-
1A,_
sentatives from 10
I
the Austrian ?rownland,'the Rouman- took steps toward-preservation of an• preferred to face a strike. -The state-1
ians are the dominant race.. The mass official pcace between Germany and! ment charged the Pennsylvania with!
of the people of eastern Transylvania, Italy. inconsistency iA that two years ago it
of properties'inMtaly and for Italy the
safety of 80,000 Italian-subjects in Ger
many.
Allies Dissatisfied?
According to unofficial reports from
Europe, Italy's, allies were dissatisfied
and at the Paris council- 6t entente
War
as a war prize with Its population of had agreed-not to conclude a separate
2.000,00') and ait'area of 20,000 square peace, and at the Paris conference
.miles. This with Transylvania would sanctioned the plan-for a- permanent
give Rotjmanta a total populations of high council of .the.
entente powers for
13,000,000 and a territory as great Vn I future conduct of the war.
trea as that of England, Scotland and The increasing co-ofceration among
^:'V^al6s.
with, Germany. Italy
I
clock this
unt" 2:3®
this afternoon,
?nore
time to
all
the
negotiations began two weeks ago
The hope of the president and admin
istration leaders was in possibility
bfj
getting the brotherhood men to give)
tbem
continue the nego-
four
of the ablest statesmen of Germany. I statement replying to President Rea,.
The prince for-some time avertedj°* the Pennsylvania, who .last night
war between Austria and Italy, and
brotherhood heads issued a'
made an announcement that rather
when he saw a rupture was Inevitable than give up arbitration, the roads
He negotiated a special agreement
under which, in case, of war between
Austria and Italy, Germany and Italy
pledged themselves to respect the in Ave smaller roads it has refused
properties and lives of .their respective them representation on the managers'
subjects in each other's domains. 1 conference committee and that if arbi-
fought the efforts of its shopmen to
organize and arbitrate. It also de
clared that as the controlling interest
This meant for Germany-a guaran- tration was applied it would not apply
tee of many millions of dollars worth' to these roads.
Members of congress today were
studying the problem and awaiting
word from the president. Some pro
gressive republicans /declared that in
their opinion, In the event of a strike
the president would ask congress, to
order federal receiverships to direct
the railroads" during the conflict.
Compulsory arbitration, they think,
might be provided but never would be
enforced.
Senator Kern, the majority leader,
said all hope of an adjournment next
-Friday had been abandoned.
Congress Rate Raise Foe.
the entente allies and the necessity for that the proposal to put thru legislation
bringing into service Italy's surplus of guaranteeing the railroads an advance
troops, which could not be employed In freight rates sufficient to offset the
on the otber fronts without bringing
on "«&r .with Germany, gradually
brought Italy into such a position that
it became evident a declaration of hos
tilities against. Germany wais. only a
matter of tinie^/!
The Mexican _sea coast on the Pa
cific and tbe'^Oulf^ot^M^lfoytia is^
Democratic leaders asser&d last night
demanded wage increase has virtually
been abandoned. The plan already has
raistg a stqrm of disapproval among
democrats as .well as. republicans.
The democrats advised the White
House that such a move would'be polit
ical suicide. .'A member of the presi
dent's party is yet to be heard from
who would be willing to fac^ his con
stituents and ask for re-election after.
MARSHALLTOWN, IOWA, MONDAY, AUGUST 28, 19X6.
kfe-J:
voting to pass,the proposed $50,000,000
a year wag^e boost on to the people in
the shape, of higher freight rates.
In his conference with Secretary
Lane and Senator Newlands the presi
dent dlscusstd three propositions.
I The first related to the passage of
I a law compelling an eight hour day for
all railroad employes.
The second had to do with an in
crease in the membership of the inter
state commerce commission from seven
to nine, as provided in a bill which has
passed the house.
The third related to the appointment
of a permanent tribunal of arbitration
which shall settle all questions arising
between capital and labor in interstate
commerce and especially with a view
to averting the calamity which now
threatens the nation.
Permanent Arbitration Board.
Despite the opposition of certain re
publican senators to any increase in
the membership of the interstate com
merce commission Senator Newlands
expressed the view tonight that such
a law would be enacted and coupled
with It would be an amendment pro
viding for a permanent board of arbi
tration.
"We might as well make up our
minds to the fact that the present sit
uation is a serious cne," the senator
said,- "anrffthat we must be prepared to)
meet ft. ''iiist what will be done by
congress $r what form the legislation
will take. I cannot tell at this time."
One matter brought up at the White
House conference was the suggestion
that the: president call a conference
with the Chicago Association of Com
merce, the Illinois Manufacturers' As
sociation, and other representative
business men of the country for the
purpose of discussing practicable
means of averting the strike. This
suggestion was made by the Chicago
commercial! body. The president did
not indicate whether he would act
upon the proposal.
Union Basis of Pcace.
Before leaving Washington tlie
union chairmen voted to authorize ^hs
committee-of twent.v-four to settle tlte
controversy on a basis of the estab
lishment outright of the eij
ht-hour
day with ten hours pay for eight hours
work and pro rata pay for overtime
and to agree to the arbitration of all
other issued.
Inasmuch as the unions hitherto
have condemned arbitration, this au
thorisation. was hailed first as a con
cession. The brotherhood leaders .lo
nied this. They said that by arbitra
tion they mean the president's pro
posal to submit the overtime pay and
other issues to acommission of investi
gation. They refuse, however, to sub
mit the establishment of the elght
hour dily? to either arbitration or in-
a long--conference -with William L.
Chambers, chairman of the United
States board of mediation, who in
formed them of the general terms oi
the rejection of the presidents' de
mands by the railway" heads. Mr.
Chambers was informed that the rai'
road counter proposal would not he
accepted. Immediately afterward the
vice presidents of the brotherhoods
and the sreneral committeemen were
called into conference and arrange
ments were made for their departure.
Brotherhoods Will Not Arbitrate.
W. G. Lee, head of the trainmen,
that the railroads are determined to
force a strike rather than accept the
compromise settlement offered by
President Wilson. We are still the
guests of President Wilson and will
remain here."
EUROPE ADOPTS
U.-S. "SUB" LAWS
Now Building Undersea Craft to Be
Propelled by Steam—Idea Once Re
jected by General Navy Board Gets
Approval Overseas—Greater Speed.
Washington. Aug. 28.—Information
has reached the navy department that
DIPLOMATS WIN
Berlin Press Blames Von
Jagow and Zimmerman
For Roumanians Action.
ITALY'S ACTION
NOT DISTURBING
News of Declaration of War From
That Quarter Long Expected—Lon­
don Financial Circles Pleased Over
Political Developments in Balkans
—Bulgars Must Bear Brunt of At
tacks Against Austro-Hungary.
London, Aug. 28.-—Italy's declaration
of war against Germany and the decla
ration of war by' Roumania have caused
a most profound impression in the Ger
man capital, says a dispatch from Ber
lin by way of The Hague.
The Berlin newspapers express them
selves bitterly against Gottlieb von Ja
gow, the foreign minister, and Dr. Al
fred Zimmerman, the under secretary
for foreign affairs, those statesmen be
ing considered by the journals to be
partly responsible for what is declared
to be Germany's diplomatic defeat.
The Roumanian declaration of war,
tho expected in some quarters in Lon
don, caused much satisfaction in tinan-
c'u'
circles generally. The recent de-
cline of 5 per cent in Russian exchange
was attributed to the possibility of such
action, but American buying of rubles
thru here in the last few days was the
chief factor in weakening the rate and
the market expects further declines in
the near future.
A later message says word has been
received that the German government
will hand his passports to the Rou
manian minister today.
All Parties Have Voice.
The meeting of the Roumanian
crown council, at which the decision to
declare war on Austria-Hungary was
reached, was held at the ControcenI
mentin
'FerfflniTntf'p*raTT£a:
S on the
work da v. said:
"It seems evident," the statement! 'ast ^,e decisive hour has
said, "from press reports this morning1 struck. Events have dictated to the
government intervention and the
realization of Roumania's national
claims."
Roumanian News Censored.
The Roumanian minister at Vienna
called at the Ballplatz yesterday and
received his passports, says a telegram
received by the Exchange Telegraph
Company. The minister is leaving
Vienna today by special train. The
newspapers of Vienna appear with
large blank spaces, the message adds,
showing that all articles dealing with
Roumania have been censored.
No Excitement Over Italy.
Berlin, via London, Aug. 28.—Altho
Italy's declaration of war ugainst Ger
many was unheralded, it failed to cause
the slightest ripple of excitement in
Berlin. The announcement was made
steam submarines are under construc- yesterday in the customary extra edi-
tlon in Europe closely resembling thej"ons Sunday editions. Idle |n Dpiville wood, and on our trenches
twenty-fl^e-knot boats designed by the!
croyd®.re?d
submarines to meet the requirement of I f.wLedUoHa^were writ!
the 1916 naval appropriation bill. jjreVl0Us to Houxnanla-'s
which specified that the submersibles of war on Austria.
3 5 I
being built abroad have not been re- 1 longer act but as they ordered."
ceived.
CIVIL WAR VETERANS GATHER.
Flock to Kansas City For Fiftieth An
nual Grand Army Encampment.
Kansas City, Aug. 28.—Veterans of
the civil war flocked Into Kansas City
today to attend the fiftieth encampment
of the Grand Army of the Republic. All
departments of the annual reunion were
opened this morning. Before night 15,
000 tld soldiers are expected to be here.
A number of special trains, bearing
delegates from eastern and middle
western states arrived today, and the
the announcement
onstratively.
conditions. All the editorials were writ-
20 knots an hour and If possible 25 "We have awaited this declaration of
knots. No private buildersi were will-j war without impatience or unrest. In
Ing to bid, since they were unable to! Italy the declaration may be regarded
find sufficient horsepower in oil en- as a great deed and may be accompa
glnes to give the boats the required nled with the usual demonstration. In
speed. Eighteen knots is the maximum
for submarines in the British and-Ger
man navies.
The general board disapproved the
designs, because the physical diffi
culties presented by the difficulty of
taking down a smokestack would make
the boat slow to submerge. Full de
tails of the stteam submarines now
Ago.
llalkan spoils.
crown councU meeting,
lecla.ration
Germany it leaves the public ice cold.
"This, the twenty-seventh declaration
of war, was plainly to be expected when
the cabinet of Premier Boselli was
formed, and Walter Runclman, presi
dent of the British board of trade, visit
ed Italy for then one knew with cer
tainty that Italy was irretrievably de
pendant on her allies and could not
Fighting has been begun between
Roumanian and Teutonic troops on the
I Transylvania frontier, the official an
1 nouncement of today indicates. The
statement says Roumanians have been
taken prisoner.
The announcement says the Rou
manians were captured on the Tran-
sylvanian frontier.
BULGARS TO BEAR BRUNT.
A
NEWS OF THE DAY
T.-R. BULLETIN.
The Weather.
Sun rise? Aug. 29 at 5:24 sets at 6:38.
Iowa—iB'air and warmer tonight and
Tuesday.
PAGE ONE.
Telegraphic News:
Roumania Declures War on Austria.
Germany Retaliates in Kind.
Allies Win Diplomatic Contest
Strike Situation at Critical Stage.
.Marked Slump in Wheat Prices.
PAGES TWO, THREE AND FIVE.
Iowa News:
Freight Cars Being Held In Kast
Third Victim of Kxplosion Dies.
Davenport Seeks Road Aid Money.
Rain Still Needed For Crops.
Fall Shooting Season Extended,
Five Big Day.'! of Fair.
Fiction Outclassed.
PAGE FOUR.
Editorial:
Lincoln Highway as a Monument.
Pierce Ought to Be Called.
The State of Business.
Topics and Iowa Opinion.
PAGES SIX, SEVEN, EIGHT, NINE.
City News:
Three Hurt in Motor Car Accident.
New City Tax Levy 43 Mills.
Minneapolis New General Hea^puar
tors M. & St. L.
Ansons Win and Lose Close Game
to Pilots.
Loses Hand Blasting Stumps'.
Marshalltown Twenty-five Years
General and Brief City News.
PAGE TEN.
Markets and General:
snfl
the session was.prolonged over several
days. The council bonsists of nine
teen members of whom it is believed
four to six opposed.
Conferring with' the crown council,
with whom the final decision rested.
King Ferdinand had long conferences
with leaders of all Roumanian par
ties, including those favorable to in
tervention and those who had been
strongly supporting Roumanian neu
trality.
Averescu to Command Army.
General Averescu. former minister
of war. it is said, will have chief com
mand of the Roumanian army. The
today issued a statement decl.iringj
that the brotherhoods had no inten-1 Bucharest newspaper. Adervul, com
tion of arbitrating the eight-hour
War News Breaks Wheat
Declines 8/a Cents.
Corn Holds Comparatively Steady.
Cattle Prices Maintained.
Hogs Hold at Steady Values.
Strikebreakers Fow as Railroads
Bid.
changed recently, is of German manu
facture, which makes the supply diffi
cult for the allies.
It has been reported that Austria has
been busy for months preparing her de
fenses along the Roumanian lines, aided
by Field Marshal von Mackcnsen, and
German engineers. For that reason
some officers believe the Austrian gen
eral staff has determined to hold itself
entirely on the defensive in the new
war, endeavoring to prevent the pour
ing of Russian troops onto the plains of
Hungary by way of Roumania. For that
reason army officers here look for a
fierce Bulgarian drive Into Roumania
as soon as war Is declared between
these two nations.
TtuctiaresfcHle»W an open plain, wlth-'
in seventy miles of the Bulgarian fron
tier. It can be defended, officers be
lieve, only by a great field army, and
offers an object for a new drfve.
Officials here expressed no surprise
at Roumanla's action, which was
known to be dependent on Italy's
declaration of war on Germany, as the
existence of a sort of secret alliance
between Italy and Roumania as af
fecting the Balkans has been known
for some
Greece
time. It is said that the
great element of caution which i-s
thought to have restrained Greece j-j
recent months has been removed a
will want her share of tht
Artillery Fighting Under Way.
London. Aug. 28.—Artillery fighting
Is in progress along the Macedonian
front, but no infantry actions of im
portance are under way. so far as In
dicated in today's accounts of the op
erations. The announcement says:
"On our Doiran front our artillery
silenced the enemy's guns, which were
bombarding our positions.
"On the Struma front the Bulgar
ians shelled Mekis, and we dispersed
an enemy party northeast Komarjan."
Quiet on Somme Front.
London, Aug. 28.—No large actions
on the Somme front are reported »n
today's official announcement, which
says:
"In spite of Indifferent weather some
progress has been made east of Del
ville wood, and in minor successful
enterprises near Moquet farm.
"Last night there was much shelling
against
undem-
department a year ago. The navy. official Nord Deutsche Allgemeine
general boanj disapproved the charac- Zeltung sounds the keynote of press- Germans Attacking Fleury.
teristicf of the steam boats. Navy de- comment, taking the position that par|S Aug. 28. The Germans made
signers turned to steam propulsion of!^a,y9 'ormal declaration of war will I
parts of our line? especially
north of
was
poz|eres. Our artillery also
active."
Beverai
attacks on the French posi-
U.°n8._a' F1^5y. ,®St."'^1.
repulsed, says today's announcement
of the war office.
DRY SPECIAL TO
VISIT 600 TOWNS
Prohibition Presidential and Vice
Presidential Candidates to Make Two
Months' Tour of Country Will
Leave Chicago Sept. 8.
Chicago, Aug. 28.—The "prohibition
special," carrying John Hanly, presi
dential candidate, and Dr. Ira Land
rlth. candidate for vice president, on
their two months tour of the nation,
will stop at approximately 600 towns,
it was announced here today by the
national prohibition headquarters.
The slogan of the campaign is "a
million votes for prohibition."
The special train, which is to leave
Chicago, Sept. 8, will make at least
ten towns a day, according to plans.
Must Defend Austro-Hungarian Front
Against Roumanians.
Washington, Aug. 28.—Many general women voters' department of the re
staff officers believe Bulgaria will be publican national campaign, returned They're Scarce.
registration at Convention Hall dis- called,upon to bear the brunt of the at- from New York today and began Im-i "What a beautiful girl Miss Stone
Closed that the far western states of tack of Roumania on Austria-Hungary, mediately planning the work under his! is! Strange she has never married."
Oregon, Washington and. California Roumania is said ohave war supplies direction. A workman's national re Well, you know there are very few
who»can afford to provide a pro
aettiift: for such a beautiful Stone."
Weather For
•:#. Continued Falfj
Wanner IMktf
y$W$ NUMBER 205
PRICE OF WHT
Rush to Unload on An
nouncement of Ronmania'fl
Declaration of War.
EXTREME DECLINE
Si/2 CENTS A BUSHEL
1
Prospect of General Rsilnoad St^ks
Serves to Intensify Bearish Senti
ment—Possibility of Opening of
Dardanelles la Chief Incentive to
Sell—Decline Proves Temptation to
Buyers and Market Recovers a Little.
Chicago, Aug. 28.—Roumania's
declaration of war on Austro-Hungary
smashed the wheat market here today.
At the opening there was a fall In
some cases of 5% cents a bushel.
September delivery, which closed Sat
urday at 1.51%, started today at 1.46
to 1.48 H.
General rushes to sell took place,
which were Increased by the increased
chances of a general railroad strike In
the United States.
Before the decline was cheeked
losses that reached 8 54 cents per
bushel were shown for December,
which .sold as low as 1.45 Vft, as com
pared with 1.54 at Saturday's finish.
Buyers Are Tempted.
Notwithstanding that the pressure
carried away for awhile all other con
siderations, the extraordinary break ijt
values proved too tempting for buyers
to resist, and the market rallied from
3 to 314 cents from the lowest level.
The upturns,, however, left prices still
3M to 5 cents down, as compared to
last week's final quotations.
Bear traders generally took the view
that tho action of Roumania was likely
to prove a big factor in fobbing a -more
speedy end of hostilities or would at
least tend to hurry the opening of the
Dardanelles and so release huge Rus
sian shipments of wheat.1*,-
Late Quotations Still Lower.
In the late dealings weakness again
became acute. Prices tumbled- lowmt
than before and closed demoralised,
with December at $1.43ft to (L449it
the extreme breaK of the session.
News that actual fighting in Rou
mania had begun accompanied the
final downturn In prices and made
trading frantic.
Minneapolis Prices Decline.
Mihneapolls, Aug. 28.—Wheat prices
tumhled here today, following Rou
manla's declaration of war. The Sep
tember option fell 4% cents below Sat
urday's close. December Buffered a
loss of W cents.
Kansas City Market Depressed.
Kansas City. Aug. 2fl.—Roumania's
declaration of war today depressed tho
wheat mnrket. December opened at
1.41%, 6% cents below Saturday's
close.
DECREASE IN NEW CASES.
Only Forty-th^ee Children Affected
With Paralysis in Past 24 Hours.
New York. Aug. 28.—Encouraging re
sults In the fight against Infantile pa
ralyrls were Indicated by the report for
the twenty-four hours sending at 10 a.
m. today. Only forty-three new cases
were discovered. Th£ greatest decrease
was in Brooklyn.
Blonde Children More Susceptible. %1|
Chicago. Aug. 28.—Fair-haired, light
comj-lexioned babies are more suscep^l^,^,.?
iihle to infantile paralysis than those
with dark skin and hair, according to
Dr. Archibald L. Hoyne, a member of ^f|!
the commission appointed to lnvestl
gate the plague in Chicago. Dr. Hoyne 1
also is attending physician at the con- 5
tagious dlseaso wards at the Cook couni-^,
ty hospital.
NO GOLD ON DEUTSGHLAND.
Cargo Consisted of Crude Rubbar, B.'?
Nickel and Crude Tin.
Baltimore, Aug. 28.—Contrary to re
port. there was no gold in the cargo
of the German submarine merchant
man Deutschland. when she sailed
fro mhere on Aug. 1, according to the
undcrliner's manifest, made public to
day. Her cargo consisted only of
crude rubber, bar nickel and crude
tin, and weighed 1,735,760 pounds.
DEPOSE OF IRISH QUEStION.
Negotiations For Settlement to Be Re
sumed During Recess of ParPament.
London, Aug. 28.—Strong efforts are
to be made during the parliamentary
recess for resumption of the negotia
tions for the settlement of the Irish
question. It is understood both union
ist and nationalist leaders are inclined
to regard these efforts sympathetically.
ENDS LIFE WITH GAS.
Plans Campaign For Women. I ing on a pillow in the oven of a gas
Chicago, Aug. 28.—James R. Gar-, stove at his home here last night. His
field, of Ohio, who is in charge of the wife found his dead body today.
.yi
•Sfljfl
*v
Des koines Man Pillows Head in Oven
of Gas Stove.
Des Moines, Aug. 28.—Charles C.
Rhodes, after turning on the bum
I prs, went to sleep with his head rest-
