Oregon Historical Society
Comp 5:1,7 Second St
Tidings
"Ashland Grows While Llthla flows'
City of Sunshine and flowers
Ashland, Oregon, Llthla Springs
"Oregon's Famous Spa"
ASHLAND. OREGON MONDAY, AUGUST 28, 1916
NUMBER 28
VOL. XLI
Ashland
San Franciscans Proclaim Park
Most Beautiful on Coast
"By George, Bill, this Is the pretti
est place we have struck on the
coast." Just a chance remark of one
of the San Francisco business men
who were visitors in Ashland for sev
eral hours last Saturday. And Just
an Indication of the many, many nice
things which the visitors said about
bll ,v
Ashland "Grandest pam on me ;
coast," "Simply wonderful," "And t0 ,
think it is only two years old and all
onA nwnert hv the City." Y lSll
hoi fhi flown in the city," "Noth
- .ho hni trin like this." The ',
. r....is..nii oimniv revelled in '
the beauties of the city and the park.
The manager of the excursion almost
wept on Secretary of the Commercial
rinh Frank Shinn's shoulder because
. . 1 1 -nnn,l tnrxai ft
he naa not urrunseu iu nuu muov
a day instead of only four hours in
Ashland.
Whether the cool shade of Lithia
park, its myriad of beauties, the
lithia water, the Glenvlew drive and
Lithia drive, the sulphur plunges or
the roses and peaches made the great
est hit, is only a matter of conjecture,
but the grand ensemble swept the
Californians off their feet and sent
them away from Ashland proclaiming
it the jewel city of Oregon.
The fifteen or twenty public-spirited
automobile owners who offered
their machines to bring the visitors
Land Grant Tax
Problem Worries
Whether or not the Oregon-California
erant lands should be placed
upon the county tax rolls this year
upon tne county i '
is causing no a ""le dtacuMlon .
i.y county "-,B,B "u "i,"" s at 7:15 Instead of 7:45 as cus
papers of the grant lands In Ore- tomary Tne concert wlll be
gon. i over hy shortly after 8 o'clock.
Ex-Governor West is making a
tour of the 6tate at present explain-', , j,
ing the land loan and other acts '
and acting as a government agent in .
the grant lands matter. He aJvfcu.ij OoiCOrC
that the lands be left off the rolls, rCdl IXdljCiJ
stating that the government will pay i
the back taxes, and expressing his
belief that the right to tax the lands t
in case they do not become govern- j
ment lands, will remain wita tne
counties
A formal request from the depart
iart '
lepart-
ment of the interior to the grant,
uicui w. -- "
land counties of Oregon was fmbodi-,
ed in a letter which was sent to ths ;
i. '
assessors of the various counties, asK-
ing that the lands be left off the tax
rolls. Tiie letter iohowb. :
-Dear Sir: I am directed by the
honorable commissioner of the gen-1
eral land office to call your atten-;
to Portland, In Oregon,' as amended !
bv the acts' of 1868 and 1869, for j
Ti-hieh natenta have been Issued by
the United States, or for which the
grantee is entitled to receive patents
under said grant, and to so much
of the lands granted by the act of
May 4, 1870, entitled, 'An act grant
ing lands to aid In the construction
of a railroad and telegraph line In
the state of Oregon," for which
patents have been Issued by the
United States, or for which the
grantee Is entitled to receive pat
ents under said grant, as had not
been sold by the Oregon and Cali
fornia Railroad company prior to
July 1, 1913, be, and the same Is
hereby, revested In the United States.
Provided, that the provisions of this
act shall not apply to the right-of-way,
to the extent of 100 feet in
width on each side of the railroad
and all lands In actual use by said
railroad company on December 9.
1915, for depots, side tracks, wood
yards and. standing grounds.
'The title to these lands having
been by the said act revested In the
United States, they are no longer
subject to taxation and should not
be placed upon the assessment rolls
which are now being prepared by
y"I would therefore request that
you kindly see that the lands cov
ered by the said act of June 9, 1916,
are now and hereafter omitted from
the assessment rolls of your county.
By bo doing you will avoid present
ing complications which will surely
prevent the early payment of the
taxes, now due your county, In ac
cordance with the provisions of the
statue. '
"Yours respectfully,
"LOUIS L. SHARP,
"Chief of Field Division."
Roseburg Asks
Bids for Railroad
After many long months of hard
fighting, re-adjusting, re-voting, and
the usual amount of legal proced
ure the city of Roseburg on last
Friday asked for bids for the con
struction of the Roseburg & Eastern
ralTheadblds will be opened by the
city council on September 6, and
the contract awarded If a sat sfac
tory bid is found, later that week.
Phone newe items to the Tidings.
lion to the act of congress approveu elllne their croos are getting from tnemseives ano outiit, ana mr. rer- j- - - - " - riie As i and commercial vm" , : , " : . , V
KnVT 1.1 6. which provides: ; S JSo PePr box A yh jars at -ette works at his trade jj. upon a masterful retreat add.d ; J of f - o " tMStt cSTM
" 'That the tit e to so much of the shinping point. The valley crop for lzer. They started out without a characteristic bulldoged- Marshfleld Chamber of Commerce. .,
SfntSInTct N,rM!l
UMTS'JSiSTB ! amount of 'fruit that is turned over Mt. Ashland was greatly enjoyed, and S K ! 'extend our best wishes for a most Ann . ch Jch. Miss
road and telegraph line from the to the canneries. The apple crop Is; Mrs. Personett said "We will sure ' lJvVthe h celebration and congratu- IleMt;8ia'Pn17Ar;K7na dftugh
rntr.i PaHftfi railroad in California estimated at about 600 cars. Cars of .be good boosters for the Ashland park , the artillery over tn e neaa or tne ope u))n tie comp ello Mrs. ''aB.e' Ttr. l,n.'t.B
over the Pacific Highway from Med
ford to Ashland found them almost
melted by the heat, which was intense
In the lower valley. The half-hour
ride over the paved highway to Ash
land cooled off the visitors, but not
until they had felt the cool breezes
of Ashland canyon and which sweep
across Clenvlew drive did they begin
11 U ' r. 1, 1 ,1 .l.n.,l am
10 raiu mi '
frJi
fomlans were asked to walk down
from the auto camp to the lithia
fountains and the waterfalls, shade,
flowers, sulphur cave and dozens of
other attractions encountered capti
vated them. After gallons of lithia
water had been consumed, the visit
ors dispersed to visit the business
houses of the city, after which nearly
all enjoyed a plunge In the cool wa
ters of the Natatorium and Helman's
baths.
The ladies of the Civic Improve
ment Club loaded down the special j
train In which the Eay City men trav
eled with baskets of Ashland roses
and boxes of great juicy peaches.
The San Franciscans stated that
they had not encountered a more
hearty welcome anywhere on the trip
although everywhere they had been
royally welcomed. Many of the visit-
ors will be back again to make a!ment raijroad which will have its
longer stay in Ashiana.
i, s ' 'ij 4 4 $ 4 4- '
! v IJAXI) COXCKKT KAMA'
WKDXKSDAY
S '
3
? 4 I
On account of the Choral So- I
ciety- concert at the Vinlng :
thuoim Woinenilav evening. !
? the Wednesday night band con- ?
cert at the bandstand in Lithia
w)n commence promptiy t
Well Pleased
Ah and .ana Aieaiora ice ana wunro .Bm,.
a.. ,,,at Bnent twn . vesterdav. The travelers are on the
- wheaTeMral
day
days Wltn M. V.. wniieneHU, general
fc pac,flc Fruk Expresg
cmDanV- ,n going over the valley to
I)ne on the frut situation Up
o date the A8nlan(, ,ce & storage
Company has iced 263 cars of pears
and expccts about 200 more before
the seagon lg over. The pear raisers
throughout the valley who are now
pears and apples will average about
500 boxes each, so if the apples sell
as satisfactorily as the pears these
two crops will bring Into the valley
a good sum of money to help boost
things along for the coming year.
All pears shipped from points south
of Roseburg are going south through
the Ogden gateway. It is reported
that Yakima is sending out eighty
cars of Bartlett pears per day.
About once a week Manager Hurt
goes over the valley to keep in touch
with the fruit output, and he is a
very busy man. The car shortage last
ed but four hours. Plenty of cars are
now available to handle the fruit as
fast as It cornea in and no further
shortage is anticipated this season.
Dunsmuir Will Come
On Special Train
Because of the fact that the Ash
land band will be over at the Chetco
Cove Carnival next Sunday, It was
necessary to get an out-of-town band
to fill it3 place at the Sunday con
cert In Lithia park.
The Dunsmuir band which made
a big hit upon the occasion of
visit to this city early this summer,
lias consented to come and will bring
a special train load of Dunsmuir folks
to spend the day In the park.
It wlll he Dunsmuir day In Llthla
park and the visiting band should be
welcomed by an Immense crowd. The
Dunsmuir News tells of the excur
sion plans as follows:
The Dunsmuir band has accepted
an offer to play at Ashland on Sun
day, September 3, and on Invitation
of the Ashland band are planning
a big Dunsmuir picnic day at Ash
land's beautiful new Lithia park.
Tentative arrangements have been
made for a special train to leave
Dunsmuir at 5:30 a.m. and leave
Ashland returning at 11:30 p. m.-,
allowing visitors about 13 hours in
the Oregon city.
In order to secure a special train
it will be necessary to sell 125 tic
kets. A fare of $3.25 for the round
trip has been granted for the ex
cursion, and the band hopes to have
the tickets sold in time to arrange
fully for entertainment at Ashland.
As a guarantee is required it will
be necessary for those who wish to
go to sign for tickets as 'early as
possible. It will not only be a most
enjoyable, event, but a good boost
for Dunsmuir.
Sane Fourth
Movement Pays
Results of the campaign that has
been waged for years for a sane
Fourth of July are shown In figures
made public at Chicago Thursday by
the American Medical assertion, 1 the Auto Blue Hook organization an 1 . yesterday and provided action for The road was turned Into a river in a
which for 14 years has taken a poll is the official Blue Book hotel. ' 8ome motion pictures taken at the few minutes, but the rain .was ot
of every state and city in the coun-1 Besides this sign the Austin also summit and along the trail. One of short duration and merely added en
try of Importance as to Fourth of j has the official black-and-white sign the unique features of the trip was other exciting incident to a trip
July casualties. of the American Trail Blazing asso-1 the successful attempt of Sam Jordan , which was full of Interest.
vm nno i.au nf fptamid una re- clat inn which mnrkn a "rood" hntm. ! and Elmer Slorrison to take an In-; About half of the party were worn-
ported in the entire country in 1 916 '
and not one person was blinded by .
eunnowder. accordlne to the assocla-!
tion's statement. Only 30 deaths,
took place, as compared with 466
In 1903, the first year complete fig
ures were obtained.
Holmes and Ewer
Purchase Grocery
The East Side grocery located at I
the corner of Iowa street and the
Boulevard and which has been con
:on-
ducted for the past two years by
V. A. Stewart, was sold recently to
Wilbur E. Holmes and Howard E
Ewer who took charge Tuesday.
Mi. tawort ovnapta in trn tn Al-.
aska and may locate at Seward. He
was employed with a man now prom-:
inently identifed with the govern-i
terminal at Seward, in the early
days of the Panama canal construe-
tion work.
The new owners are both well
known in Ashland. Mr. Holmes was
fnr rnnnv vearn a nartner with H.
P. Holmes in Holmes Bros, grocery,
and sold out a few months ago. Mr.
Ewer Is one of the most popular
young men of the city and has had
nnmi.oi- von' c-;npripnei In the
grocery business.
Coast to Coast
With Pushcart
Mr. and Mrs. J. A. Personett left
Ashland this morning after a stay of
IIIflllllllE 11 l LIT EL DIUJ V
.
I rt lap of a trip which will eventu -
juoi mjj vi a uif ui
any take them to the capital of every
1 state in the Union. They push a
,ightIy lmlIt cart wh)ch carrle8 their
hed is screened in and so evenly bal -
i anced as to be very easy to pusn.
; They started out from Salem in July
and expect to be gone about five years
Ion the trip. They sell postcards of
Weatherford In
Ashland Sunday
Mark Weatherford. democratic and
inl Diiinvimn" i ueruinu nruii. 1110 uci uia.i o. ij , - Mniiootia-Pnctf . rni road teia, vuibbihi ciiu, ui iuiciiu
prohibition candidate for congress curred outside the city limits, no ar
from this district, was in the city, rests were in order by the Ashland
Saturday, accompanied by Judge W. police. The English force having got
H. Canon, land office official from : the best of the encounter did not
Roseburg. and Sid I. Brown, chair-1 wish to invoke International law and
man of the democratic central com-' the German force, having started the
mittee. Mr. Weatherford Is making war with his artillery, could not.
! Hence the war is over as far as Asn-
munlty In the valley and will speak In
the larger cities, including Ashland,
later In the campaign. While here
he conferred with prominent demo-
crats and laid plans for the campaign
in this district. He is in town again
today.
Burning Dishtowel
Calls Fire Truck
Fire, fire, fire, the dishtowel
burning! An alarm was turned in!
voaforHov ofternnnn frnm a roni 1 on oo
yesterday afternoon from a residence
on North Main street. The fire truck
made a fast run out to the end of the
pavement and back several times, but
no one showed up to flag it. No
smoke rolled forth, no roar of flames,
no shrieking damsels waiting to be
rescued. Finally Fireman Harley
Holmes did a little detective work
and from a young lady calmly em
broidering on her front porch (em
broidering a handkerchief, not the
front porch she was sitting on that)
received the following reply: "On,
yes, we turned ln an alarm. A dish
towel ca'ight fire, but It is all out
now." The fire department and the
crowd which had gathered left ln a
daze. '
Elks Picnic Date
Is Postponed
The Elks have postponed their pic
nic, which it was announced would
be held on September 1, to a later
date, which will be made public later.
So many of the antlered herd are out
in the mountains at present that it
was thought advisable to wait a few
days before holding the picnic.
Signs Proclaim
Austin Good Hotel
The Hotel Austin now flaunts a
blue sign which' proclaims to the
world that the hotel is up to the
standard of excellence demanded by
Both of the signs are hung from .
posts in front of the building and !
no tourist can dbbs over the Pacific !
highway without Being the signs. Al-
rettu.v me uiuerence lu uje imnu'ci
of automobllists who stop for meals
is becoming quite noticeable.
Make Progress on
Fish Lake Ditch
-A ditch to carry water from Four
Mile lake to Fish lake Is being Con -
strutted by the Rogue Rlvar Valley
Canal company and good progress
Is reported by campers returning
from that section.
The ditch is to be seven miles long
and la liptnir rills' in ppt mnrfl Wfltor t
, into Fish lake. A dam is being erect-1
ed in l our Mile creek to bacK up ?
the water in Four Mile lake, from
where it will be run in the new ditch
to. Fish lake, 1000 feet lower.
Fish lake is the source of Sled-1
1 ford s water supply. The water runs
from the lake down Butte creek for
i about 14 miles, and then Is diverted
i in nines to Medford
Water from Butte creek also is
I used by the Rogue River Valley can-
al company for irrigation purposes.
Forty men are employed by this com-1
i nanv in the work now belne done.
All supplies for the work go in by
i way of Klamath Falls
Briton Busts Gun
Over German Head
The English aiid the Germans
. .
' a nohari In a liOOUV onPHPPITlPnr 1I1RL
- . . unUCkiiy
I P'ac? .easl or town nen uiiiulkii
the8uWect or tne pre
, -omo nn f'l.rlu olnnH
, ness In Europe i came up. ( liria i stood
. 'P G"a"8a.n.. , f
, ""ueu Vn rr V 2oA,. t
1 ' "y f '!gBe' .2ec"eSnf"
'"fTTr" :,tVd bvhe fus 1-
, finding h mwl : routed ny tne ius u
'ae .n'8. , ",pJl,, ! I.h fnr
' ' 7'" ,,'ri
army. Tne Herman army
became hors de combat. The Bng-
llsh marched to the chief of police:
office in Ashalnd and offered to give
himself up. Acting Chief Wlmer.
who is neutral, went out In the ca
pacity of arbitration board and red
I cross nurse and found the German
I army sadly battered but alive and
1 kicking. Inasmuch as the battle oc
land Is concerned. Both the combat-
ants are recuperating u
; minor wounds.
' , ,
flflfl FPllftWv Plf TttC
Will Be Monster
Ashland Lodge No. 45, I. O. O. F.,
are sending special invitations to
every lodge in southern Oregon and
inserting advertisements in the pa
isVrs of the valley inviting all Odd.,, ,, , 4rut hntoia .i..
Fellows to attend the Odd Fellows'
i j.- .i.
picnic in Ashland's Lithia park on
Tuesday, September 5. All lodge
members, their families and visitors
are invuea, ana a great nig uuy iuii
of enjoyment Is promised. An en-
tertainlng program Is being prepared,
a short business session will be held,
and a big picnic dinner. Everybody
is to bring their own basket lunch.
The Ashland lodge will furnish free
coffee, sugar and cream. (An effort
Is being made to secure low railroad
rates and the greatest picnic of them
all Is the aim of the Odd Fellows.
Get High Line
Ready for Winter
The C.-O. P. Co. are making gen
eral repairs on their line between
Fall Creek and Ashland. Everything
Is being done to avoid winter Inter
ruptions. There are a number of
long spans on this line. The longest
stretch is over Jenny Creek canyon,
1,500 feet between towers, and the
center of the line Is about 750 feet
from the ground.
Phone Job orders to the Tidings.
Big Crowd Climbs Mount Ashland
Motorcycle Makes Summit
About two hundred men, women thunderstorm came up and caught
and children climbed Sit. Ashland most of the party at Long's cabin.
Han motorcycle to the very tiptop.
A number of small parties left Ash-
land Saturday evening and spent the
night camped on the mountain, the Ashland Is an easy one-day trip fon
main contingent going up Sunday anyone when the trip to the end of
morning and arriving at the top . the road is made by automobile. The
about noon. Slovie Slan Hull sue- road was In fairly good shape and
ceeded in obtaining some excellent , none of the cars experienced any serl
plctures, as did also the official pho-' ous difficulty.
tographer of the Southern Pacific The pictures secured will be ln
railroad, who accompanied the party. I valuable in advertising one of thd
Because of the fact of their early ar- j most enjoyable of the scores of inter
rival, many left the snowbanks at the 1 esting side trips which may be made
Bummit before the main crowd ar- from Ashland. The movies will be
rived. Everybody Joined in a jolly shown at a local theatre at a not far,
soon u. v.m.eB 1
J XI 1 F . ... - A ., , U
'i "" l',c ' ' I
me OI, B" lu, n,,u 1UUI """',
cvcles were left.
The day was perfect for picture-1
taking, but along toward evening a
'
HELP WAXTKU
-O News print, the paper upon p
which newspapers are printed,
has more than doubled in price
during the past six months. ?
We assume that German sold-
$ iers are being fed on paper wads
. at least somehow the paper S
mills say the demand nasH neen
s- greatly increased and paper is
.$ scarce and thereby hangs a
tnlo
$ Unless subscribers pay up tne
country newspaper is a goner.
$ The Tidings is mighty sick right
now. Something has to be done
and that quickly. A new batch
of paper Is on the way and It
takes $600.00 to get it. Who ?
will be the first to pay up his
subscription? Please respond. I
! This Is a real S. u. t. can. s .
;
. & .,? 4 -'
Sends Coos Bay
Congratulations
,
Cooa ).yy pntertalned 10,000 people
royally during their jubilee last week,
: which celebrated the completion or
the Willamette-Pacific railroad.
Everyone who attended tne ce.ema-
Uo i)rjngg ,mck glowing reports o f
' fine entertainment and a wonderful
- , ,, Pifii. railroad
u ' w, the outside;
- ,i,e
.i i nt nniip olranrlv nrnsner-
section, and we trust your nignesi
expectations may be fully realized
ASHLAND COMMERCIAL CLUB.
Trail Markers
Paint the Way
The big white and black "H" and
"L" at each turn of the Pacific hign-
j way through Ashland which dlreot
the auto tourlBt In the way which
Is the right way, are the work of
Mr. and Mrs. W. E. Tomlln of the
American Trail Blazing association,
u'hn irpm here earlv last week en
route to the Mexican border, blazing
the trail of the Pacific highway
with black and white paint as they
went,
ThV trail markers staved over
. Hr and w erpatlv
most of a day here and were greatly
charmed with the park and the beau-
ties of the city. They proclaimed
the Hotel Austin to be the equm 6f
ihe ftmi mit the- B.an of their
lne nne and put tne Sign OI tneir
I nnnrnvill ,n tha ahane of tlm official
j g, nf tne trall marker8 ln fron.
I ot the fonteX
Mr. Tomlln Is marking what la
known as the black trall, cxitndlng
from Seattle to the Mexican bordr;
the red trail', from Seattle to Bos
ton, through the Glazier national
park, and the Yellowstone trail, ex
tending from Seattle to New York
via the Yellowstone national park.
The trails are being plainly marked
and tourists unacquainted with the
country cannot help but travel the
right road ln the event they follow
.Ig!.
IIUIIIUCI VL n UIUI1 Wlll uu 1UU11I1 111
Ashland, means turn to the right,
while the letter "L" means turn to
the left.
Three straight lines, one blnck and
two white, Invite the traveler to pro
ceed straight ahead. The black cir
cle denotes the official garage of the
association.
The black square, with a white
center has been adopted by the. asso-
elation ln distinguishing the official
hotel of this organization.
KUilnuj. . . ... . T r. tJ. I.... I. .,!, 11.. 1 tl Ah f
Mr. and Mrs. Tomlln are traveling1 were from down the valley and
In a big touring car and are carry- I brought picnic parties, but the ma
lng a complete outfit. They expect jorlty were from out of the state,
to reach San Francisco some time j California-licenses were greatly 14
next week. the majority.
en and many out-of-town people
were included. The excursion to thef
summit proves very fully that Mt.
.1 1 ....... , 1. , , .n.,nn n.
Z,",' wX
. "11 .TZ i J
-... 1,,u,CDln,,.uuU
photographer will be URed In maga-
zine articles and advertising mutter;
put out by the road.
Woodmen Picnic
Jolly Affair
There was a big crowd. Just how
many it would be difficult to say,
but practically every lodge in the
valley was represented. Woodmen
and Women of Woodcraft front
Grants Pass, Talent. Phoenix, Med
ford and the majority of the mem
bership of the local lodge were pres
ent. The Tidings reporter arrived
on the scene of hilarity just as a
wagon load of watermelons furnished,
by the Woodmen were being demol
ished. Between bites of juicy red
melon the names of those present
were gained.
If anv were missed, and no doubt
some were, blame it on the water-
melon. For Jollity, none of the pic
nipa llp11 tl.iB Vl111. have exceeded
the Woodmen's. It was one big.
good time with everybody pitching
in to help the merry fun along.
After the luncheon had been dis
posed of and the last watermelon
done away with, a program of short
talks followed. Rev. P. K. Hammond
delivered the address of welcome In
.a happy manner. N. V. Borden of
Aieuioru reniiuiiueu in. .wuiuigirn
of pi.oenix, Mrs. J. D. Crocker, J. F.
Rocho and a number of others, both
ABhllul(iers and from other valley
t0wns, spoke briefly.
The names gleaned were as foV
s:
Mrs. Kobert A. N. Beymers, Mrs.
Mrs. I. C Zent of Stockton, whc
Is visiting the J. F. Cole family.
mi. niiu 1,1 , D. r, fr uui inn, i.i 4
-
till.
N. W. Borden and party of Med
ford.
Mr. and Mrs. J. R. Wick, Mr. anil
Mrs. G. S. Butler. Mr. and Mrs. A. E.
Kinney, Mr. and Mrs. Emil Peil, Mr.
and Mrs. F. O. Swedenburg and1
children, Mr. and Mrs. C. P. Good,.
Mr. and Mrs. Ernest Hicks, Dorothy
and Theima Wolford, Mr. and Mrs.
C. Van Ilusklrk. Lucile and Leon Van
Busklrk, Mrs. Ida Perry, Mrs. Frank:
Yarhrough, Mr. and Mrs. Clarence?
Lane, Mr. and Mrs. J. E. Roberts,
Mrs. C. A. Swanson and family, Mr.
and Mrs. J. F. Cole, Rev. P. K. Ham
mond, Mr. and Mrs. N. L. High and
family, Mr. and Mrs. Z. L. Reynolds
and family. Mrs. F. N. Snyder, Mr.
! and Mrs. H. G. Shearer, John M.
j Dodge, L. A. Roberts and family, Mr.
and Mrs. J. F. Rocho, Mrs. Q. H.
Ketchum, E. E. Phlpps and family,
Mrs- J- D. Crocker, Mr. and Mrs. J.
1 M. Casebeer, Mr. and Mrs. L. Dart,
M- e,,ert and Mr'
an -r8- arlow-
-
Valley People
Tax Jitney Cars
All of the regular jitneys and sev
eral added specially for Sunday were
taxed to capacity yesterday with the
crowds of. valley people who werei
driven out of the level valley by the
heat and spent the day in Ashland
park. Probably a thousand people
from Medford and other valley towns
were up Sunday. Picnic parties were
numerous. The natatoriums did a
splashing bathers from mornlns
until late ln the evening.
Auto Camp Full
Again Yesterday
TJie auto camp was filled to capac
ity again yesterday, there being fifty
! cars parked In and around the camp
at the noon hour. Many of the cars
