7n
THE DAILY MISSOURIAN
EIGHTH YEAR
COLUMBIA, MISSOURI, MONDAY, AUGUST 28, 1916
NUMBER 309
IV
RUMANIA DECLARES
AFTER MEAR WAIT
Country on Verge of Joining
Allies for Some Time Fi
nally Takes Step Minister
at Berlin Is Dismissed.
IB IiiTLVItVIIONS OK Will
I.N EUROPEAN CONFLICT
GREECE EXPECTED
TO ENTER CONFLICT
Rumanians and Austrians in
Battle Few Hours After
Declaration Bu 1 ga r i a n s
Continue a Steady Advance.
Ily I'nltrd Press.
LONDON. Auk. 28. Roumania has
declared war on Austria and joined
the Allies with her arm) of six hun
dred thousand. German has dis
missed the Roumanian minister at
lierlin. according to dispatches re
teived this afternoon. There is ev
er indication that Germany will de
clare war on Koumania in a few
hours Roumania's declaration came after
two ears of anxious waiting on the
part of the Allies, during which time
Itouinania has several times almost
entered the war. onl) to be held back
b the Russian losses Her entrance
at this time is expected to herald
Greece's entrance into hostilities
I'ro-war meetings were held over
entire Greece, )estcrday which fanned
the war spirit because of the Rulga
rian advance
It is thought that a new- Balkan
battle is already opening in an at
tempt to squeeze the Bulgarians be
tween two forces.
Koumania's third army is expected
to enter Transylvania in a few das.
July 2s, 1014 Auhtrii declar
ed war on Serbia.
August 1, 1914 German de
clared ar on Russia.
August J, 1914 Germany de
clared war on Trance.
August :.. 191 1 Kngland an
nounced .state of war with Ger
man August '.. nil I Austna-Hun-gar
declared war on Russia
August 9. 1914 Moment gro
declared war on Austria
August 10, 1914 France de
t lared war on Austria
An gun 12. 1914 Great Britain
declared war on Austria
ugust 2!. 1914 Japan de
clared war on Germany.
October 30. 1914 Turke de
clared war on the Czar.
November .", 1914 England
declared war on Turkey.
May 2"! 191.1 Ital declared
war on Austria
August 2 5, lll.'i Italy declar
ed war on Turkey.
October 14. 191." Bulgaria de
dared war on Serbia.
iigast 2S. 19H, Italy declar
ed wir on Germany.
August 28. 1916 Rumania de
d.res war on Austria.
EVERYTHING IS READY ONE KILLED, ANOTHER
FOR HALL OPENING
THE WEATHER
For Cnluinlili ami lcliilt
li i -rn t inn 'Ik
-I WILL ASK CONGRESS
ENGLAND'S NEW ARMY
TO FIGHT
James Buchan, Military Au
thority, Denies Reports
Being Circulated.
By JOHN BUCHAN
England's Foremost Militar Critic
t'nitiMl Press Special Corn spondent.
IXJNDON. Aug. 26 In reports of the
fireat Battle of Picardy, being circu
lated in neutral countries toda the
commonest misstatement is that the
new British armies don't know how
to fight.
It is admitted that the old Expedi
tionary Force was line material, but
the New Armies raised in the last two
years are described as undisciplined
and feeble in attack and irresolute in
defence! formidable only because of
their numbers which are vanishing
under German fire.
No item of the statement is true
The casualties have not been out of
nrnnnrtiftn in till Imiini1 rrnlnnil Tti
Bulgarian advance, according to Sofia I .. ... , . . , ... ... . .
. , , the attack of July 14th which carried
ujliui-iit'N me numanau ltirces
Konmanlan Troops in Rattle.
B.r United Press
BERLIN. Aug. 28 Austro-German
troops clashed with the Roumanians
on the Transylvania frontier within a
few hours of Roumania's entrance in
to the war It was officially announc
d this afternoon that Roumanian
pnsontrs had been taken.
Bulgarians An Advancing.
BERLIN, Aug. 28. The Anglo
French armies are evacuating all
Northeastern Macedonia before the
E. W. Stephens to Make
Speech Tonight Thea
ter Manager to Reply.
TICKET SALE IS GOOD
Same Vaudeville and Differ
ent Pictures Will Be
Shown Tomorrow.
Promptly at S o'clotk tonight the
new Hall Theater will be opened At
this time, E V Stephens will begin a
ten-minute speech, and the rcpl will
be made by one of the managers of
the theater. The curtain will rise at
S-l.'i olclock for the opening show.
The committees on seat sale met this
morning for the last time, and reports
were made by four of the seven com
mittees. The grand total will fall
short only a few tickets of the num
ber set at the first. New committees
were appointed today to make the
cleanup of the town North of Broad
way, J. W Schwabe. S. C. Hunt, C. B.
Rollins, Jr. and Dr. L. M Defoe will
work. South of Broadway will be cov
ered by S. r. Conley. Harry Jacks and
X. D. Evans.
The same show will be given tomor
row night, with the exception of new
pictures. It is not the intention of the
management to continue this, but on
account of many tickets sold to peo
ple who will be unable to attend to
night, or secure the best scats, the
show will be repeated with a change
of pictures.
"Tho committees have accomplished
as much as we could expect,"' said S.
F Conley. chairman, this morning.
"We are going to work all day. and try
to cover that part of the town not al
ready called upon "
Tickets may he purchased at tho box
office of the new theater any time to
day, and have the scats reserved.
Some of the persons who bought
tickets this morning are:
Ike Cathey 2. Dr. F G. Nifong 2. Mar
shall Gordon 2. Prof. F. L Martin 2.
E. R. Hedrick 2, Ra.v Watson 2, W. I.
Jarvis 3. M. A Bright 2, Pete Seeley
1. Bowser Taxicab Company 4, Clde
jShafer 1. C. B Rollins. Jr 3. J. M Wood
4, J R. Campbell 1. Goetz & Lindsey
2, John R. Scott 1. William Hirth 2.
Airs Metty 1
INJURED IN ACCIDENT JlfP jo PASS NEW LAWS
PREVENTING STRIKE
Weather Conditions.
Mirrin Htinnc D-il Rivi.r ," ' ',rlv -"tumii tjpe of w.itli.r prt
uruii nagans ueati, timer- ,n im in.imiiu .,r ni.t .if tin- ning
son Allen Hurt in an
Auto Smash-Up.
tr. crt pt tin- Culf int from
I liiriil i .mil mirtliu inl ilmi.r the
! tn Ilittir-i-. Hliir.- it Mill N hut
'e is tu
AtlmtliM
WERE HIT BY A TAXI
Party Were Fixing Puncture
Near Jefferson City at
Time of Wreck.
, Mmutrs. iriiiig in imuiints from Ilirtit IJ. 1 iwi i ...
to ni.iiii nt.- mi Murine vi-sKnitv if i. r i re&icient Wilson, railing to
ii.-iii urn ipi nielli III Il.irilKTII ll's
iinl OMnliiimt Arkinsis mil south, rn '
Missouri, mil tin in f uortlii 1st up the
Ohio tilli .mil nnu ml to i Knj
liml In Missouri fiir tveitli.r will IH.il! i
!nill for tin- next thirn six hours or,
more. iKsoniin soin.uhit w lnm r mi
1 III sil , ,
Get Railway Chiefs to
Agree, to Request That
New Statute Be Passed.
Martin Hagans, 60 tars old, a
farmer living three or four miles out
Loral Oat.i.
The liUhi-st ti mpi mure in Ciluinlil i
Jist.nl iv wis s. ini! tin- loi-st list
night is 4t!, jireiipit itlon. no. nlitlve
luinililltv 'J p in tistiriliv. oi per nt
A ir io vistinliv tin- hl.-hi st tun
,..,,.,. ... i piT.itnre mis ,3. anil the hm.st ft. pre
of Ashland, is dead, and Emerson i ip't ition. jm.
Allen, a brother of Wane B. Allen of The Aimjn.u.
Columbia is badly injured, as a result ,. !", "' ,0,,,- r,M ' '" s,m Ms-
of an automobile accident shortly aft- M""n K,ts r,'n P "'
cr midnight
EMPLOYES OPEN
CHICAGO QUARTERS
New Acts Would Be Pattern
ed After Canadian Laws
and Might Avert Walk
Out for More Than a Year.
! '
A. J. '
Saturda in Jefferson j
I.atc Saturday afternoon Dr
Bass, who lives nine miles south of
Columbia on the Ashland gravel, ac
companied by Frank Murry, son of
Judge J. H Murry of Columbia, Emer
son Allen and Martin Hagans, mo
tored to a point near Jefferson City
in Doctor Bass' Ford runabout for a
few das fishing. The party fished
until wtll after dark and tlrovc into
town to bu ite and a tub in which
to pack their catches
As the men were driving down west
High street on their return to camp
The Temperature Toil It
- 4' 11 .i ni .
.V. 12 m
, - - Ti 1 ji III
f.s J p m ..
"BOB" J0.NF.S I.KVVKS TOO IY
Tribune Kditor Mill Teach Journalism
In South Dakota Unhersit.
Robert William ("Bob") Jones, city
editor or tne Columbia Daily Tribune,
left this morning with his wife and
two children for their new home in
Vermillion, S. D , where Mr lones will
be a professor of journalism in the
College of Arts and Science of the Un
reached Aegean Sea, driving the Brit
ish from the base of Gulf Orfani The
Bulgarian advance begins despite the
Serbian stubborn resistance
Germans Arc Repulsed.
Itv I'nite'1 Pres.
PARIS. Aug 28 Several Gei man ) recaptured by the British with two
iversity of South Dakota. He will
one of the tires of the car was punc-' teach a cIass m nows- aml "e in bu'-
tured just at the approach of the ness management.
viaduct lrr.rt.nir nut nf town. Thn Mr. Jones holds the degrees of A. B.
four were mending the tire when al'0C and LI. B. 'C from the I'niversity.
public service car driven by a outh AVh,Ie a student he won man" I"-1"8'
raced down the hill at a terrific rate "nd was a member of various honorary
of speed crashed into the rear of the fraternitie- He n a fellowship in
runabout, instantly killing Mr. Ha- onomi Chicago University but
gans and hurling the Ford for a dis-d,d not go' Jones was actUe ,n
- r ...... r . n.u v. ! student affairs. He was editor of the
tancc of seventy-two feet. The pub- . ...
,, , , . . Savitarin 1905. and its business man-
lic service car and driver were un-
,,..,..,. , . . ager in. 1913.
injured. Mr Allen received a crushed ,. , . . . ,, ..
... , , . , ,. , Mr. Jones started working on the
shoulder and four broken ribs. Frank . . . . , ...
,. . ., . , . . Tribune in 1907 and has worked there
.uuirj was uauiy Druist'U dui lwciori
Bass escaped without injury.
A Ihnimh tun Wnrtl Pim.hniil u ne
. . ..... ' ' Besides his work on the Tribune, Mr.
siiiuig in me miuuie oi me street I
under an arc lamp, the approaching
T(l IHLLKTIN
-1 II v l'nlteil Pres.
It WASHING ION, Aug. 2S.-1 sUiti-
mcfit issued Lite this afternoon lir
thi committcv of eight railroad presi
dents places stress on the report that
a strike will be called for September
What authorit) the presidents
have for tho report is not ftUm, but
brotherhood representatives earlier
today charged them wiUi having spies
in the recent brotherhood meetings.
The railwaj presidents exhibited what
purported to be a strike order to be
come effective at 7 o'clock on the
moraine: of Labor Daj, September i.
The order was issued August 14 and
is addressed to all local chairmen, and
all members of the four brotherhoods.
j since, except for the period September
i 1911 -September 1913.
a large part of the German second
line the British losses were extraor
dinarily small. Tho individual fight
ing value of the British troops has l
been equal to any in the campaign
For example, a wood was taken by the
Germans with nine battalions; it was
The British New Army which showed
its merit at Loos last September, has
attacks against the village of Floury
were repulsed in last night's fighting,
it was officially announced this aft
ernoon There were no important op-j I'nardy battle
er.it ions elsewhere along the western! Lnlire Force Is en.
front ' The whole British force in one sense
is new The famous old regiments of
the line have been renewed completely
since Mons, and their drafts are drawn
from the same source as the men of
the new battalions The 9th and 1'th
Divisions (wholly new) brought from
Loos a reputation second to none in
tho Armv
Take the great fight of July 11th
KKTUUNS FItOW EXTKSIO W)UK
H. I". Professors Aid in Gallatin, Ho..
('hautnii(ii.i.
W H. Hargrove. U F Childers,
George W Reavis and Miss Bab Belle
cf home economics department return
ed vesterda from Gallatin. Mo. where
they participated in the program of
tho chautauqua all last week.
Mr Childers talked on soils and
car, it is said, had ample room to
pass The driver of the car gives no
reason for the accident other than
the fact that it was raining at the
time and the water on his windshield
prevented him from seeing ahead.
Two other cars of the same company
narrowly missed the Ford before the
accident occurred.
Mr. Hagans was taken to an un
dertaking establishment
T-nn .. .. ....... .1n r U O
I ovuvrs vxzi i i.Tjri tTSiiujiueui. lur me oi.
Ivouis Globe-Democrat, Kansas City
Journal, and later for the Associated
Press and the St. Louis Post-Dispatch.
WILL ATTEND CHINESE FNION
II. L. Chillis Left for Oberlin, Ohio,
M here Confenence W ill be Held.
H. U Chung, a student in the Uni
versity, who attended the Summer Ses
sion at Ames University, returning
wun Kruai fciury u. cuij ia ui , . ... ., . ,.
I vlfj uuii aiuti V-IIUlf, in niu ltllll
IlriU'sh Gain Near Ilelville.
I!v t'niti'il rrcsi.
LONDON'. Aug 2S The Hague re
ports British progress in the fighting
around Pelville Woods, and several
engagements on the Moquet Farm on
tin- TIiitpv.il Sectors
where the, here Saturday night to visit friends.
body was prepared to be sent to his left for Oberlin, Ohio, this afternoon
home Mr. Allen was sent to a hos-'to attend the seventh annual meeting
pital It is thought that his injuries of the Mid-West Chinese students Al
will not prove fatal Doctor Bass'l'ance of the United States,
and Mr Murry will return to Colum-I Mr Chung will have charge of the
bia this evening. I social end of the conference, in con-
Louis Spaunhorst said last night: ! nection with which he will have a side
"I was answering a call in the ! show similar to the ones at Farmers'
West End and was going down High Fair
street toward the viaduct The light; The conference is to start Sep-
from the corner and the he.iv rain i tnle benalnlldw
kept me from seeing the Ford Carl,cniDCr ' ani ,v111 tontlnlle "ntiI SeP-
which was right in the middle of the, tembcr 9
street I saw no lights upon it and!
did not know it was there until I T" l''tur, at 'd 0ak' Io,,a-
struck it with mv Mr" I S M. Jordan left today for Red
judging contest for bos Mr Hargrove
talked on live sto;k products and con
ducted the contest in stock judging.
Miss Belle conducted a demonstra
tion in home economics and supervised
the sewing contest for .girls.
.s esumateu mat about WW per- homp Icar AsnIan( ;cstor(, Tne I Chautauqua platl
sons attended these chautuaqua meet- fnneral was hc( tJje fJbcrt I Crimson Trail of
1111.3
ItT United I're.
WISHINT0, Aug. iS-Failiiiff to
get the presidents to see his new
proposition as he would like them tn.
President Wilson nill call upon Con
gress to pass laws which would pre
ent the strike. One of whfch lawn
will be patterned after the Canadian
Labor Dispute Act which arerts strike
walk-outs until complete Investigation
is made of the eonditions of labor.
This averts the strike for a year.
It is thought that it will be an
eight-hour day law also appljimr to
the railroads only, whieh will prob
ably be an amendment to the present
slxteen-hour law for railroad work
ers. It was learned this afternoon that
the brotherhoods have a war ehest
which contains fifteen million dollars
to be used in case of a strike, whieh
wonld dbide anion the fonr hnndml
thousand member at forty dollars a
month.
Officials this afternoon naid they
would not le touched bv the strike
if if were railed now, while the em
ploves could take care of themselves
for nnlj a short duration.
Flv l'nlteil Press.
CHICAGO. Amr. :N. Strike head
qnarfers were opened here today by
If. J. Carr. chairman of the Itock-Is.
land emplojes, in preparation for the
threatened strike. Chairmen of the
system committees of other lines noti
fied local heads that they were on
their waj here for like action.
Mr. Hasan's hod was sent to his 0-lk' Iowa, to deliver a lecture on the fir fnite.1 r-re..
platform there on "The
a New Idea " Mr,
GIEs boom; si7;t::n.i;i
j Church at 11 o'clock this morning. Joruan ,s lnstltt(' Ice,urer Ior nlB
vussouri state iioaru m iVgriuuinm-
Former SI. V. Students Med.
Two former Cniversitv students
Kn mett T Miller and Clara Cl.vmcns ami the third lino pierced. A distin
of Marvvilie. Mo. were married in guished French soldier doubted the
th it cil last Wcdncsd.iv evening i possibility of success. An Knglish
Mr Miller who received his A. B and 'General offered to eat his hat if it did
B S degrees here will be instructor not come off When the French Gen
of phvsics at the Hannibal High eral lieard of the result he said "Cost
Schol during the coming ear Mrs bien. Lo General X-ne mange pas son
Miller the daughter of Mr and Mrs
1 K Civ mens, is a .graduate of the
The Rev G W Hatcher of Columbia
officiated at the services Burial was
when from Pozieres to Delvillo Wood I Mate Vppropri.itos $1,U.iI,()I2 to Public ! in ,hc Liberty church cemetery
the German second line was earned
Sthools Jasper Count Gets Most. 'r Hagan leaves a wife, three
According to reports from Jefferson 'Ja"Rhtcrs and one son He was one
City, State Superintendent of Schools, of tne hest known farmers in Boone
Howard A Gass, has completed the rmity
ipportlonment to the various tounties i
WASHINGTON. Auk 2 Presid. nt
Wilson presented a new proposal to
the railroads this afternoon b whith
he hojxs to avoid a final break with
the railroad nun An inevitable crisis
will follow
The confi rence of the railroad
(ominitttp might be deft rred again
, Wilson does not want to hear the fi-
M.irvvtlle Normal School and attend
id the University last car
chapeau." (Roughly translated You
win Don't eat our hat "
Partly New and Partly Old.
I In that attack a certin historic Brit-
ish Division advanced on the line be-
for their public school funds Of the Bii ItitMcre Farm,
$I.9"1 012 readv for distribution Boone j lcr Hombs. a real estate dealer of
will get ?17.".:!0fil This
isiting S. W. Jordan. j
I M Jordan of Los Angeles, Cal ,
and his daughter, Marjone, arc heer
for a few da.vs visiting Mr Ionian s
brotner, JS vi Jonian. insiiiuie ire- n, tfrm r ,h ,, . , .
' . , . i"-" itrms or the railroad pnsidents
turer for the Missouri State Board ( ,,, ho ,, ronsi(I(riK ,,. VTobaiht
of Agriculture. ,of a ..ttmf nt He is still landing
pat on the eight-hour dav demand.
tnterfains for Miss Lawrence. twecn Barentin-lc-Grand and I.ongue
Mrs w J Shephard entertained , val In each of its three brigades wore
friends Saturday night in honor of two battalions of the New Army and
Miss Minerva Lawrence who is visit- i two of the old The attack was made
ing her brother, W II I.aw rence The b two brigades and tho General com
guests were Mrs Max Meer, Mrs A j mnndihg put the four new battalions
J Mever Mrs. Schlundt. Mrs Bran-j iM the first line.
son, Mis Sinclair, Mrs Gibson. Mrs The experiment proved the worth of
McCaustland. Mrs. F P Johnson. Mrs the New Armv To begin with they
Kmberson. Mrs. Laurence. Mr-. Hase- managed to cross the intervening
man. Mrs Dunlap, Mrs A W Miller , ground and got up to within 200 vards
Mrs W II Pyke I of the enem's wire practicallv with-
! out casualties a remrakable proof of
I Daughter for M. V. Prefossor. discipline ATien tho intense British
A daughter. Helen Celeste, was bombardment ceased just at daw n they
Countv
county was one of the seventy-eight in
the state that received more than $10,
ooo for school purposes Only nine
foiinties of the tate drew more than
$20,000.
Prof. Fghert Jennings to Wed.
Prof Egbert Jennings, formerly a j
student at the University and super- j Professor Hedrick on Visit in Boston,
intendent of the King City schools for prof K R Hedrick of the Mathemat
the coming ear was married last i ""s department of the University left
week to Mi's Anna Faris of Tarkio this afternoon for Boston Mass., to at
Mr Jennings is a son of the late i ten,l a meeting of the Mathematical
William Jennings and has been super- Association of America, and later a
intendent of the schools at Milan and ' meeting of the American Mathematical
Campbell and of Gentry fount-
Here Msitimr W. C Gibbs.
Columbia. fiOfi Fifth street, lias bought I Mr. and Mrs I Dem irque of Dan- "", is willing to let a sufficiently long
a 320-acre farm in Randolph County, ville, Ky. who have been visiting Prof llmo f lapse before it gos into effect,
five miles from Clark. Mo He will ' W. C Gibbs of the Bible College. left wn"-' will enable the commission of
raise stock and grain, beginning March this afternoon. Mrs. Demarque going jfnp ' KO over the rntire situation
1. 1917. when he will take possession to Cincinnati and Mr Demarque go- I " is understood that he is willing to
Air Homos' daughter Meddie is a stu-, ing home to Danville i wait f'pn a year
dent in the University A son, Leo. TTi ' U " ',ol,,',r'l w-hether the railroads
attended the Summer Session i Miss Henle to isit Sister. j will accept the new terms Wilson
' M,51 Florce Henley is expecting ( wi soo ,ho s,ornne rommhtff. of thr.
her sister, iwrotny Lena, to arrive inSpnat at 4 0.cIorK hl, affrrnofflI ,
Columbia today from her home in Car-j tlIk owr,hf. poiMo ,trk , a
thage. Mo Miss Henley will remain fin
here for about a week I
Leaves for Los Angeles, Ca. I Congress 1) nt Adii.urn.
Misses Pauline and Lillian Scott; ' ""'
u),n hnvn been visiting their mother. WASHINGTON Aug 2 -Tl.e ad-
lorn to Mr and Mrs.
In Chicago August 2.1
R C. Journev attacked with superb vigour and de
Mr. Journey .votion In one place the German wire
is instructor in Political Science in
the University. He has been attend
ing Chicago University this summer
had been imperfectly cut. and they
had to make their way through it un
der a deadly fire
Mexican Commission to Meet.
Itv I'nltPil Tress
WASHINGTON. ug 2S A joint
Mexican-American commission will
meet in Portsmouth. N. H . it was an
nounced today after a conference be
tween the Mexican ambassador Arre
dondo and Secretary of State Lansing.
WASHINGTON
Society He will return September D Mrs KIiza Scott here at ir.ll Anthony ! f'"rnm"nt of Ingres th's week was
street, left for I.os Angeles, Cal , this ; H'"P" wn"n Senator hern announc.fl
W heat Drops ; Cents. morning at th" n3'0 ! "" Ret through
lir fnlteil press I it1 program by Friday, as it was
CHICAGO. Aug. 2S The Wheat Motors fo Nel-on. Mo.
traders were thrown into a frenzy as Mr and Mrs. R. Sercy Pollard mot
grain dropped seven cents Tho Ru- ored to Nelson. .Mo, yesterday where
manian declaration of war. and the they will spend a few days visiting
less favorable outlook in the strike friends and relatives. They will re
situation caused the drop. turn Wednesday.
J its program
planned
Dr. R. M"- Unrgess Herurn.
Dr R. M Burgess and family today
returned from a trip through Michl
can and the north.
