PHE BARRE DAILY TIMES
n
VOL. XX NO. 140.
ISAKHK. VKHMOXT. MONDAY, AUGUST 28, 1910.
PKICE. OXE CKXT.
RUMANIA DECLARES WAR
ON AUSTRIA; ITALY SENDS
NOTICE TO GERMANY
Fourteen
In the
Nations Are Now Engaged
Stupendous Struggle, Which
Has Been Continuing For 25 Months
Italy Has Been Virtually at War
With Germany for Many Months
RUMANIA AND GERMANY MAY
SOON BREAK OFF RELATIONS
Russia Now Has An Open Course by
Land by Which to Send Vast Armies
to Attack Bulgaria From the North,
While Allied Forces Attack From
- South
RUMANIA'S WAR
STRENGTH 580,000
The poire t length of the Ru
manian army in 11.'),2.j7, with 4lfl,
743 reserve, making a total war
strength of ."iSO.OOO men. The. to
tal available unorganized forces
are 1)21.002. The population of
Rumania is 7,600,000.
nid if the Bulgars advanced the forts
were to he handed over to them.
"Friday the Hulgar entered the town
and took possession of the fort. British
warships in tho harbor then opened fire
on tne torts, but details of the results of
the fighting are not permitted to be
sent."
Berlin, via London, Aug. 28. Rumania declared war on Austria-
Huncrary Sunday eveniner, it is announced officially here. Italy
yesterday declared war on Germany. Fourteen nations are now
engaged in the struggle.
Rumania's intervention on the side of the entente or central
powers had been awaited with concern by both sides since the be
ginning of the great conflict. This was due not entirely to Ruma
nia's military strength, but also to the fact that her entry into the
struggle opens to the Russian army a gateway through Rumania to
attack the Bulgarians from the north while the allied army, having
a base at Saloniki, attacks them and their German allies from the
south.
Rumania, with a population of nearly 7,000,000, has an army
estimated at 580,000, which has often been described as one of the
most thoroughly equipped and disciplined in Europe.
The motive which prompts Rumania to enter the war is satisfac
tion for her national aspirations for expansion. Rumania has a
border line along the whole Russian western front, on which to
choose her point of military attack.
GERMANS AGAIN
FAIL AT FLEURY
several aiucks on trench positions on
Verdun Front Last Night Were Re
pulsed, Says French Official
Statement.
Paris, Aug. 2. The Germans made
several attacks on French positions at
Fleury last night but were repulsed,
says to-day announcement by the war
office.
ACTIVITY IS STARTED
ON .MACEDONIA FRONT
British Official Statement Declares That
Artillery Fighting Is in Progress in
Far Eastern Region.
London, Aug. 28. Artillery fighting is
in progress along the Macedonian front
but no infantry actions of importance
are under way so far as is indicated by
to-day's official account of the opera
tions on this front.
HEAVY FIRE LOSS
AT EAST THETFORI)
Farm Buildings and All Their Contents
Except Household Furniture Was
Destroyed Saturday-Night.
Kant Thetford, Aug. 28. The farm
building owned and occupied by Edgar
Lufkin, together with stock, crops ana
tools, were completely destroyed by fire
last evening. Tim loss will amount to
about (S.fXKi, and insurance on the build
ings and personal property to the amount
of 2,f0 was carried in the Vermont
Mutual Insurance. Co,
The cause of the tire is not known and
the opinion of many people i that it was
spontaneous combustion In nonie rowen
stored in the barn about 10 days ago,
The Lufkin family were alr-ent, la-ing in
Ruuinev. Me., and William Bacon,
neighbor, was attending the chores in
their absence, lie left the place at about
rt:30 in the evening after finishing the
chores and was at his home at about
7:30 when he was notified of the fire.
He was one of the first to arrive on the
seeen of the tire and the blare had gained
such a headway that it was impossible
to save anv of the stock, which included
17 head of cattle, three horse and four
hogs.
Hundreds of people were witnesses of
the fire, arriving in automobiles irom
miles around, and all joined in saving all
the household furniture.
FIRED HOUSE, SHOT SELF.
BRITISH REPORT PROGRESS
GERMANY WILL PROBABLY
COUNTER ON RUMANIA
London, Aug. 28. Germany will probably declare war on Ru
mania within 24 hours, after which Turkey and Bulgaria are ex
pected to do likewise, according to despatches from The Hague to
the Exchange Telegraph company. The Rumanian legation in
Berlin is being guarded by the police, the advices say, as stones
were thrown through the windows of the Italian embassy yesterday.
Although There Were No Large Actions
on the Somme Front.
London, Aug. 28. No large actions on
the Somme front were reported in the
official announcement yesterday, al
though the British made further prog
ress. Had weather is interfering .with
the operations on the western front.
Oscar A. Harris of Littleton, N. H., Was
Taken Out of Blaring Building.
Littleton, X. H., Aug. 28. Oscar A.
Harris is at the Littleton hospital, prob
ably tatallv Hurt irom me result, or a
calibre bullet fired by himself into his
head just above the right eye. Mr. Harris,
who is about 60 years old, lived with his
wife in a fine country home one-half
mile from Littleton on the Bethlehem
read.
Early Sunday morning lie and his wife
had a misunderstanding, and she left the
house and started to walk to town, al-
hongh it was not daylight. According
o the statement he made to the police
at the hospital, after she left he spnnk-
d oil about the house, sec it on fire and
I'.m shot himself.
Immediately afterward an automobile
wned bv F. K. Green of Littleton and
going to Bethlehem went by the house as
the flumes began to be visible. The men
in the ear broke open the door, ana a
they did so, Mr. Harris fell out uncon
scious. He was rushed to the hospital,
where later he told his story. It is not
expected he will live.
The house was burned to the ground
with all its contents. The house had
recently been remodeled and was one of
the fine country homes on the famous
Glessner road.
WHEAT MARKET
WAS SMASHED
Prices Tumbled at Chicago
To-day on News of Ru
mania's Entry in War
GENERAL RUSH
FOLLOWED OPENING
In Some Cases Wheat Went
Down 5 Cents a
Bushel
Chicago, Aug. 28. Rumania's declara
tion of war smashed the wheat market.
The opening prices to day showed a fall
in some rases amounting to five and
three-fourtha cents a bushel. , A gpneral
rush took place, which was added to by
the increased chances of a general rail
way strike in the United States.
Before the drop in prices could be
checked losses that reached eight and
one-half rents a bushel were shown for
the principal trading month, December,
which sold as low as fM.Vi, as againat
f 1 .54 at the close Saturday.
WILSON PUT OFF
MEETING WITH
RAILROAD MEN
TWO WET TLACES FOUND.
REAR WHEEL BROKE;
AUTO TURNED OVER
BURNING AT SAME TIME
REPEL GERMAN ATTACKS
ITALY FORMALLY
AT WAR AUG. 28
WITH GERMANY
Swiss Goverment Requested by Govern
ment at Rome to Tell Berlin Gov
ernment that State of
War Exists.
Paris, Aug. 28 A Havre dispatch from
Koine gives a. communication published
by the Stefani agency and addressed by
the Italian government to the Swiss
government. It requests the Swiss gov
ernment to inform the German govern
ment that Italy considers herself at war
with Germany from and after August
Italy and German have been drifting
steadily toward war. In fact, Italy's
formal declaration amounts to little
snore than official recognition of a state
of affairs which already existed. The
declaration became inevitable when Italy
recently sent troops to Saloniki to co
operate in the campaign of the entente
allies on the Macedonian front, inasmuch
as Germany is directing the opposing
forces and has troops on this battle
lice.
Italy's position in regard to Germany
had been an anomalous one after Italy
withdrew from the triple alliance on May
.1 of last year, and declared war on
Austria. Although by this act she ar
riyed herself on the side of the entente
powers and against her former allies,
Germany and Austria, she remained offi
cially at peace with Germany until yes
terday. Before Italy took the step
Germany exerted every effort to induce
Lcr to remain neutral, sending to Borne
as ambassador. Prince Von Buelow. for
mer chancellor and one of the ablest
statesmen of Germany. The prince suc
ceeded fo some time in averting war
between Austria and Italy, and when
be saw a rupture was inevitable took
rteps toward preservation of an official
peace between Germany and Italy. He
negotiated with Italy a special agree
ment under which, in case of war be
tween Austria and Italy, (iermany and
Italy pledged themselves to repect the
properties and lives of their respective
subjects in each other's domains. This
means for Germany a guarantee of many
millions of dollars' worth of properties
In Italy and for Italy the safety of 20,
000 Italian subjects still living in Ger
many. According to unofficial reports. Italy's
allies were d.stiSe-l with this state
of aZatrt, and at the Paris council of
tn.ate powers is February but aaked,
the Italian representatives why their na
tion was at war with Germany. Italy
naa already agreed not to conclude a
separate peace, and as a result of the
Paris conference sanctioned the plan for
formation of a permanent high council
of the entente powers for future conduct
of the war. The increasing co-operation
among the entente allies and the neces
sity for bringing into service Italy's sur
plus of troops, which could not be em
ployed on the other front without bring
ing on war ' with Germany, gradually
brought Italy into such a position that
it became evident a declaration of hos
tilities against Germany was only a mat
ter of time.
The first overt act in this direction
occurred shortly after the Paris confer
ence, probably as a result of it. On
February 29 Italy requisitioned 34 of
the 37 German steamships interned in
Italian ports, to help meet the pressing
needs of the allies for shipping facilities.
Other indications of a approaching war
nave neen observed in recent weeks. Ger
man court ruled that Italy and Germany
were actually though not formally, at
war. It was reported unofficially that
Germany had taken charge of the defense
of Trlest. A more definite indication
was the severance last month of the last
tie between the nations. The commer
cial agreement providing for mutual re
spect of the rights of each other's sub
jects was denounced. The final step
was the sending of Italian troops to
Saloniki.
Although officially at peace until yes.
terjUy, Italy and Germany severed dip
lomatic relations last year. On the day
following Italy's declaration of war
against Austria, Frince Von Beulow and
his staff departed from Rome, and two
days later the Italian ambassador at
Berlin. Ricardo Bollati. was withdrawn.
It was on account of this fact that
Italy adopted the unusual procedure of
asking Switzerland to inform Germany
of her declaration of war.
Italy's action probably will have little
effect on the military situation in the
immediate future, although as the war
goes on it may have a more important
bearing. On the Anstro-Italian front to
day half her army, and in the future
will be able to send available troops to
any front to which they may be needed.
Russians Also Captured Wooded Position
in Galicia.
Petrograd. via London, Aug. 2. At
tacks by German troops at two points
on the northern part of the Russian
front were repelled, the war office an
nounces to-day. In Galicia the Russians
captured a wooded position.
AMERICAN SHIPS RELEASED
After Giving Bonds Double Their Value
for Shipment to Norway.
London, Aug. 28. The American fish
ing vessels, Maxime Elliot and Lizzie
Griggin were seized off tho coast of Ire
land while fishing by a British patrol
boat. They were to-day ordered released
on condition that the owner of the car
goes in Norway give bonds double tho
value of the fish to insure their arrival
at some Norwegian port.
RUSSIAN PRISONERS SUFFER.
Stories of Distress at Hands of Germans
are Told.
Two Barns Destroyed with Their Con
tents of Hay.
Milton, Aug. 2. Two bams on the
Hall place on North strept owned by
Rugg brothers, were burned early Sun
day morning with their contents of hay,
which was owned by Rugg brothers and
John Jackson. The fire is thought to
have been incendiary, as both barns were
on fire at the same time and both roofs
fell in at about the same time.
Three St. Albans People WeTe Injured on
Sheldon Road Saturday Night, One
Receiving a Broken Shoul
der Blade.
St. Albans, Aug. 2P. In an automobile
accident on the Sheldon road Saturday
night, Harrison Pa rah of Orchard street
suffered a fracture of the shoulder blade.
!.in father, 'Arthur Parsh, received a blow
on the head and was rendered uncon
scious, and his mother was slightly
bruised about the back and hips and was
badly shaken up. Two others in the car
were not injured.
The party were on their way to Can
ada when one of the rear wheels broke,
causing the machine to turn turtle. Lat
er the injured were brought back to their
home in this city. The automobile is
owned by Harrison Parah, and he was
operating it.
MRS. G. F. EDMUNDS DEAD.
Wife of U. S. Senator Died in Califor
nia.
iiuriincton, Aug. zx. .ews was re
reived Saturday by Elias Lyman of the
death of his cousin, Mrs. George I. j.d
munds, wife of ex-Senator Edmunds at
Pasadena, Cal.. last Thursday. The body
will be brought to this city, but arrange
ments for the service are incomplete
pending further word from Tasadena.
Mrs. Edmunds was born in this city
over 80 years ago, the only daughter of
Wylli and Susan (Marsh) Ljlman. She
wag a woman ot nne characteristics, of
an artist nature, and highly educated
For some years her health had been fee
ble. Her husband was senator from
Vermont from I860 to 1891, and at the
Republican convention in 1S80 he was
largely supported for president. Mrs.
Edmund's death came peacefully and
'1L 1 1 t- .. .. 1 1 , . 1 "
t, a- oa tu . . I Willi ner were iivr iiusunnu mm iiteir
, . I' . 8 UI. 8UU! daughter, Mary. Neither Senator Ed-
u W1IC3B nniuiiK jtussian prisoners oi i ,
BRITISH WARSHIPS FIRED
When Bulgarian Troops Entered Greek
Forts.
London, Aug. 28. Topit German
assurances to Greece that Seres, Drama
and Karala would not be occupied by the
Bulgars," says Reuters Saloniki corre
spondent, "another sent last Tuesday to
the commander of tbe forts at Kavala
ana illness among Kussian prisoners
war in German detention camps, said to
be due to lack of sufficient food were
told .by C. Oberoutcheff, secretary of the
central committee organized in Switzer
land for the relief of Russian prisoners,
in a statement given out here yesterday
through Alice Stone Blackwell, editor
of the Woman's Magazine.
Information as to the condition of the
prisoners came first through delegates
to the International Red Cross commis
sion, who had visited the prison camps
and later was verified by personal talks
with former prisoners, according to Mr.
Oberoutcheff.
"The daily ration of the prisoners is
scanty," he said. "In the morning they
are given coffee without milk or sugar
and 200 grams of potato bread to last
them the entire day. At noon they re
ceive a small quantity of soup, some
vegetables and sometimes, but not al
ways, a piece of meat. Supper is much
the same.
"The English, French and Belgian pris
oners often receive supplies of focd
from their governments, relief societies
or relatives and friends, but it is not
so with the Russians. Russian prison
ers often beg help, not only of their
own richer coutrymen, but of prisoners
of other nationalities. Many of these
would be glad to give it, but it is for
bidden. "The hungry Russians, however, take
their soup plates to the French and beg
for their leavings, and get them. Driv
en to desperation, they sometimes even
search the garbage and devour every
thing they find that can possibly be eat
en. We have heard of this from Eng
lish and French prisoners who saw it and
I have keen told it by the Russians who
have actually been obliged to do it.
munds or his daughter will be able to
accompany the body to Burlington, but
Dr. McBride, the family physician, will
come. Senator Edmunds has been very
ill lately and was unable to see Charles
E. Hughes, the Republican candidate for
president, who called at his residence a
short time ago.
The funeral services will be held at
St. Paul's church and the iut;rmcnt will
be in Green Mount cemetery.
KILLED BY TRAIN AT NASHUA
Unidentified Man's Body Picked Up in
Railway Yards.
Nashua, N. H. Aug. 28. An unidenti
fied man about 5o years old, five feet,
eight inches tall, smooth shaven and well
dressed, was found yesterday afternoon
dead in the north yard of the Boston Jt
Maine railroad.
The top of his head had been cut com
pletely off by the wheels of a train and
little doubt" exists that he fell while
boarding a freight. Medical Referee
Benjamin (. Moran says deth was prob
ably accidental. Nothing in bis pockets
indicated where the man came from.
AUTOMOBILE. IN RIVER.
Four People Lost Their Lives in Dark
ness and Fog.
wellsooro, ra., Aug. Z8. iwo men
and two children lost their lives and
four other persons were injured late Sat
urday night when an automobile occu
pied by Earl Sherman and family of
Endicott, N. Y., went over an embank
ment into the Tifga river near Coving
ton, Pa.
The dead are Earl Sherman, 3o, cap
tain of fire police, Endicott; Frank Per
ry, chauffeur, 32, two daughters of Sher
man, two and one-half years and five
months old.
Injurred, Mrs. Carolina Becker, Mrs.
Sherman, two men, names not known.
The family was on its way to Loren
ton, Pa., to attend the funeral of Mrs.
Sherman's mother. Heavy rains had
fallen during the early part of the night
and a dense fog had raised over the riv
er. Perry was unable to make a curve
on the down grade on the slippery road.
Tho automobile went over a 12-foot
embankment and turned bottom side up.
It took 12 men to raise the car from
the bodies beneath it.
Mrs. Becker is in a hospital at Bloss-
burg, P. A., in a critical condition. Mrs.
Sherman escaped with slight injuries
and was able to attend her mother's fu
neral. The two men were said to be se
riously hurt.
Besides Those in Barre Which Are Keep
ing Liquor Legally.
Alleged contraband liquor was found
in two places raided by the police Satur
day night, and hearings in the cases
growing out of the seizures will be held
hi fore Magistrate II. W. Scott in citv
court Wednesday morning at 9 o'clock.
On a complaint made to Grand Juror
William Wishart, the officers first visited
the house at 31 Berlin street occupied by
Mrs. Paulina Cerasoli, where they broke
in upon a party drinking beer. One of
the members is listed is an habitual
drunkard on the city court records, and
the police regard his presence in the
house as prima faeip evidence of the
woman's guilt. Four barrels of beer
were seized, and Mrs. Cera soli was ar
rested on selling and keeping charges.
Bail of ?."00 for her appearance at the
hearing anil f.0 on the beer was fur
nished. On Cambria street, the officers raided
the premises occupied by Adolfo Malnati
and seized a barrel of Highland Springs
ale and served notice on the head of the
house and his wife, Teresa, to appear be
fore the magistrate Wednesday. Surety
of $."0 on the beer was furnished.
Deputy Chief Harry Gamble and Offi
cers Dineen, Murley and Henderson par
ticipated in the proceedings.
This morning Ixuiis Canales, rated as
a baseball twirler, appeared before the
magistrate and acknowledged a breach of
the peace offense committed on a baseball
player named Garcia one Sunday early
in the summer. It was alleged by the
authorities that Garcia's jaw was frac-1
tured as the result of being hit by a
baseball bat, and for several days be was
under treatment in a hospital. Magis
trate Scott imposed a fine of .$15 and
rotts of $tf.05, which the respondent paid.
Canales was represented by E. R. Davis
anil Grand Juror William Wishart ap
peared tor the state.
Spent F " toon in Confer
eneef er the Proposed
Str Legislation to Pre
se j Congress He Will
.c the Executives of the
ilroads This Afternoon
BROTHERHOOD MEN
STILL STAND FIRM
Their Committee of 640 De
parted for Home but Left
Explicit Instructions to
Sub-Committee to Oppose
Arbitration of Eight-Hour
Day Proposition
SAFE TAMPERED WITH
But Burglar Failed to Get in and Went
Away with 90 Cents in Stamps.
An uncommonly wicked burglar en
tered the office of Parry t Jones, gran
ite manufacturers, who shar a Depot
square stoneshed with Brown A Carroll,
Saturday night and stole stamps to the
value of 90 rents. Revenue stamps pur
chased by W. W. Parry of the firm a few
days previous were untouched, but evi
dently an effort was made to unlock the
office safe, although the attempt was
unsuccessful. Whoever burglarized his
way to 90 cents worth of affluence, first
removed a file from the drawer and used
tuat instrument to force the desk, where
in lay the stamp. Mr. Parry stopped
in the office Saturday night at 9 o'clock
to get, an umbrella, but as the electric
current is shut off from the shed at
night, he did not use t tie lights, and
therefore is unable to say whether he
arrived before or, after the burglar's vis
it. The mystery centers around the means
employed by the thief to enter the office.
All of the high posted windows were
secured on the inside when the break
was discovered Sunday morning. Tbe
door leading from the office to the shed
was locked inside anil a lock of peculiar
design and not of a type that would
yield to a skeleton key is used on the
front door. So far as examination re
vealed, neither of the doors had been
opened. Mr. Parry reported the burglary
Washington, D. C, Aug. 28. President
Wilson early to-day sent word to the
committee of eight railroad executives
who will formally present the railroads'
counter proposals, which it is hoped will
avert a nation-wide railroad strike, that
he would receive them at 2:30 this after
noon instead of 10 o'clock this morning.
This was determined upon in order that
the president might hold further confer
ences on legislation on the strike situa
tion for presentation to Congress.
A joint session of Congress to hear
President Wilson's statement of the sit
uation was in prospect following Wil
son's visit to the capitol last night to
confer with Majority Leader Kern of the
Senate.
The course of the. four brotherhoods
was to-day in the hands of a committee
of 24, whom the entire committee of
640, before leaving for their homes, in
structed to listen to no proposal in
volving arbitration of the eight-hour
day basis. Strike orders are being cir
culated to await telegraphic release.
W ith the railway executives standing
firm against conceding an eight-hour day
and the brotherhood leaders still stand
ing out against arbitration, hope of pre
venting a tie-up seemed to-day to lie
with Congress. Just exactly what can
be done none of the congressional leaders
themselves seemed to know. The situa
tion on all sides is the most perilous
since the negotiations began two weeks
ago. The hope of the president and the
administration leaders was in the possi
bility of getting the brotherhood men to
give more time to continue the negotia
tions. Senator Kern, the majority leader, said
all hope of the adjournment of Congress
Friday was abandoned. The members of
Congress, resigned to remaining in Wash
ington to undertake any legislation nec
essary in the railway crisis, to-rtay were
studying the problem and waiting word
from President Wilson. Some progres-
to, Grand Juror ' William Wishart and j sive Republican senators declared that in
Tt'tneir opinion, in toe event oi a sirixe,
MORAL: DON'T DO IT! WHAT?
Light a Match to See How Much Gaso
line is in Your Tank.
Worcester, Mass., Aug. 28. One man
was seriously burned and several others
had narrow escapes yesterday when a
AO-gallon gasoline tank in a garage at
I ommercial street caught tire as
result of the owner of a car stored there
the auto with a lighted
the police were asked to investigate.
is believed that someone familiar
the office has got the stamps.
with
DEATH OF PUPIL NURSE.
KILLED DURING STORM
Feed
RAIN POSTPONES TENNIS
National Lawn Tennis Championship at
Forest Hills Delayed.
Forest Hills. N. Y.. Aug. 28. The start
of the national lawn tennis tournament
scheduled for to-day has been delayed
until to-morrow because of rain.
Motorman Came in Contact with a
Wire.
Bristol, Conn., Aug. 28.A severe elec
trical storm swept over central Connecti
cut last night, causing considerable prop
erty loss in this ciiy and neighboring
towns.
In Terryville Thomas O'Keefe. a mo
torman on a trolley car, was killed when
he came in contact with a feed ire.
inspecting
match.
The injured man is Fred G. Mason,
aged 44, 19 Thomas street. He is at the
City hospital suffering from first and
second degree burns about the face, neck,
arms and chest. It in feared that ne
swallowed some of the flames and is
suffering internal burns.
Despite the excruciating pains which
he suffered. Mason, assisted by George
Nelson and Wesley Taft. who were in
l:e garage at the time, fought the flames
and prevented the fire from spreading
in the garage property, where hundreds
of rars were stored. i
The burned car was owned by George,
Absey of 33 Fleasant street. He bought
week ago, and while .Mason was h
Miss B. Hazel Bohonon Died at Her
Home in Washington.
Miss B. Hazel Bohonon, daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. George A. Bohonon of
Washington, died Sunday afternoon at
2:10 at her home, following a lingering
illness of over five months. Saturday
afternoon, her trouble became serious.
and the end came yesterday after an un
successful fight to save her life.
Miss Bohonon was 19 years, 2 months
and 11 days old. She had attended God
dard seminary and for four months last
winter was a nurse at the Barre Citv
a Tinunial u-Kpra alia u-aa fallen uicL- nn
I March 1. She made mends wherever
the president would ask Congress to di
rect federal receiverships to operate tho
lines during the conflict. The probabil
ity of legislation for government owner
ship is too remote to be considered at
this time, they declared.
200 AT CLAMBAKE
St.
John's Court and Friends Were
Dewey Park Saturday.
at
she was and leaves many in this citv,
as well as in Washington.
Funeral services will be held from the
home in Washington to-morrow after
noon at 4 o'clock, and Rev. A. M.
of Williamstown will officiate,
will be in the village cemetery
Washington grange will attend.
Smith
Burial
The
POWDER MILL BLOWN UP.
When Struck By Lightning and Whole)
Village Was Shaken.
Troy, X. Y.. Ant:. 28 One of the worst
storms this section has experienced in
years swept over Troy and portions of
I Kenssalaer county yesterday afternoon.
Kvhai'hticoke a powder mill was
Two hundred people gathered at Dew
ey park Saturday afternoon for the an
nual clambake and outing of St. John
court, No. 522, Catholic Order of Fores
ters. Among the guests were many
members of Queen of the Forest circle,
the women's auxiliary order of the For
esters, who joined heartily in the after
noon's program of merrymaking. There
was an abundance of clama and what
with all the flxin's that were added t
make up the al fresco banquet, it is safe
to say that 200 people were roundly fed
before the caterers laid aside their ladles.
Baseball players representing in onq
team the married men and in the other
the unmarried members of St. John's
court had the center of the etage to
themselves in a seven-inning game that
resulted in a tie. David Wyllie did the
twirling for the benedicts and also cap
tained the team, while he was opposed
on the firing line by Eugene Loranger.
Darkness found bachelors and benedicts
deadlocked in a six-all tie and the um
pire. A. H. Burke, who had been un
mercifully scored for alleged rank de
cisions, seemed only too glad to call it a
came. Dancing was one of the enjoyable
features of the outing, two violinists
IL H. (TH IIL'II. a 11,1 Wild- .M41.-lll nHS fill- i
. i . i a , - . . T. . 1 : ! It
meter to see bow much had been poured ! Mruck by lightning and blon up. No, playing for a large company of dancer.
into the tank. It was dark
lighted a match. The explosion followed.
igniting the oO-gallon tank, from which
Mason was pouring the fluid.
TWO MEN KILLED
And Eight Injured When 11 Automobiles
Were Piled Up.
TALK OF THE TOWN
A Vermont Telephone 4 Telegraph Co.
track driven by Leslie M. Newton collid
ed with some car rails which were loaded
on a junk team near IVwey park Satur
day evening, bending the mudguard and
radius rod. The automobile ws pro-
eedinir toward Barre and the junk team
towarl Montpe'icr.
Kalamazoo, Mich.. Aug. 2S. Two men
were killed and eight otners injured, one
of them probably fatally, when 11 of 14
automobiles piled up at the first turn
during the 100-mile race at Recreation
park here Saturday. The dead are Mar
ion Arnold, mechanician. Chicago, who
was decapitated, and Jack Peacock, driv
er, Brooklyn.
. I . 1 iKa nMiwrl r ilamflPH
and he ' one whs injui- i- i-. ..-
will amount to tliousanus oi cionars.
Nearly every window in the illage was
broken and' plate glass in a score of
stores shattered. Several buiMlg
in the outskirts of Troy were struck and
burned. In t!i;s city some of the streets
were impassible, being tilled with water
which overflowed curb and entered buildings.
Fred B. Nib-s of Boston will speak and
give ballot readings at Cnity temple.
Vmth Barre, dne4ay evening. Aug.
3' at J; o'clock. Silver eolle-tion at
tte door.
SAVED GIRL'S LIFE
But Otto Cochrane Lost His Own Life in
Charles River.
Watert.wn. M.. Aug. 2S. After
saving the life of Miss Aithea Giggcy.
who tell from a eanr while learning to
pad'i'e. Otto CWbrane wa drowned in
the Charles ner vetrdv. Neither
eouli swim, but Cochrane managed to
keep his companion afloat until she
reachel the overturned cane. Then Le
rack.
in the pavilion.
The committee consisted of A. B.
Goneo, E. J. McNuIty and E. J. Dion.
KICKED BY COLT
Fairfax Boy Taken to Hospital and Is In
Serious Condition.
Fairfax. Aug. 2. Roy Warren, eldest
son of Mr. and Mrs. Wesley Warren, waj
kicked by a colt in a pasture as the hor
was Cying to cateh the animal. Tbe
hov was taken to the Fanny Allen hos
pital, where be was operated upon. His
t-ondition is reported to be serious.
Postmasters to Meet in St, Alba as.
St. Albans. Aug. 2v The annual con
vert ion of the Vermont State Ieagne of
Postmaster of the third and fourth
il.-e will be b-ld here tomorrow and
a4acia.
I
