DAILY EDITION
VOL. VI., Mo, Lit l.
0 RANTS PAJW, JOSEPHINE COUNTY, OREGON, MONDAY, AUGUST 28, 116.
WHOLE NTTMBEB IMS,
No fotherTown in the WorloVthe Si?e of Grants Pass Has a Paper With Full Leased Wire Telegraph Service.
mi
1
GEHRal POWERS
BALKAN Kill JOINS
ALLIES AGAINST TEUTONS
King Ferdinand Throws National Resources and 600,000
Trained Soldiers Against the Kaiser, and Greece Is Ex
pected to Follow by Joining the Allied Forces Within
the Next Few Day - aly Declares. War on Germany
Iondon, Aug. 28.Roumanla ha
Joined the allies with her well trained
army of 600,000 men.
Olio official statement from Berlin
thU afternoon announced that Rou
manla declared war on Auitrla last
nlaflfl. The French foreign office an
nuunoed that the Roumanian war
ofllre has Issued a declaration of war
against the central power.
Within a few hours after Roiimanla
entered the war her frontier force
clashed with enemy patrol along iho
Transylvania frontier. The German
war office thli afternoon announced
that some Roumanian prisoner. were;confldont that Germany will be unable
taken.
Germany will dismiss the Rou
manian minister to Berlin today, ac
cording to a dlnpatrh from The
Hague. There Is every Indication
that Orinany will follow Roumanla's
action with a declaration of war be
fore many hour.
Roiimanla' decision wa reached
at a meeting of the crown council
summoned by King Ferdinand lat
night. It came at the end of two
year of anxlou waiting In which the
Roumanian diplomat watched with
tense Interest the military fortune of
the allien.
The lloumanla declaration la ex
pected to signal Greoco's early en
trance Into the war on the side of the
Wile. Pro-ally onthulam, fanned
to fever heut by the Bulgarian Inva
sion of northern Greece, broke out In
a aerie of great meeting In Athens
Sunday. King Constnuttne was de
nounced for falling to lend support to
the allies and waa urged to prepare
the army for war.
The Roumanian Third army, al
ready mobilised within striking dis
tance or the Hungarian frontier, Is
expected to Invade Transylvania
within a week, striking westward to
ward Boistercte.
Tho Roumanian general staff prob
ably will send every available man In
the Invasion of Huugary In an effort
to conquer the rich province of Tran
sylvania, long coveted by the Rou
manlans
At the same time a strong.
force will be maintained along tho
anuthern Roumanian frontier to
guard against attack by th Rul
garluns. Roumanla's decision Is expected to
bo followed shortly by the opening of
a great allied offensive In the Balkans ( have been mobilised, have been or
that will aim to squeeze the Bulgars dorcd to the border, the war depart
between two opposing, forces, closing 'mnnt announced today,
the pathway the Germans cut through J Following Is the text of the an
Serbia to Constantinople. jnouncement Issued by the war press
The Roumanian entrance Into the bureau:
war was the greatest diplomatic "Orders previously Issued tempor
mchlcvement for the allies since the arlly suspending the movoment of the
European struggle began. Dlapatohps) mllltla of Vermont, Kentucky and
from The Hague today declared that Ohio to the southern department
Berlin received the news calmly, have been revoked. These troops will
though the German pross blames join the division to which they were
Foreign Secretary von Jagow and ( assigned, In the recent divisional or
Ilnrter Foreign Secretary Zimmerman gonlsatlon of the mllltla called Into
for (lermnny's diplomats defeat. 'the federal service."
Tho Berlin military authorities The war department woultt give no
stationed n guard, around the Rou- Information why tho mllltla was or
manlitn legatlou, but there wn no dered lo the border at this time when
'demonstration. the strike situation Is more serious
Rounmnla entered the war at nl- than at the time of tho lant order
most the same hour that Italy de- holding them home. Tho only ex
dared wnr on Germany, The two plnnatlon was thkt the above troops
events had close connection. It I be- hre n part of the tactical units alreody
llevod hero, since Roumnnla and Italy at the border and organised, and the
"had acted In concert In other Balltnn department wishes to complete the
matters and were understood to have movement. .J
agreod more than a year ago to Join
the allies at the tame time.
New of the allied diplomatic vle
tory at Bucharest waa hailed with
the greatest enthualaim In London.
Everywhere the rlew was taken that
lloumanla'i entrance Into the war
mean the speedy elimination of both
Autrla and Bulgaria from the con
flict. Squeesed between the victorious
Russian and Italian armlei, the Aus
trian now find themselves forced to
defend their eastern border from at
tack at a moment when they lack
men for the Russian and Italian
front. Allied mllltarv nxnorta r
to send any reinforcements to the aid
of the hard-prend Aostrlans with
out Inviting dlRBBter on both the Rus
sian and Anglo-French front.
Some critic see a reetilt of Ron
mania's action the cutting off of Bul
garia and Turkey from communica
tion with their Austro-Germnn allies
and their surrender under economic
and military pressure before the end
of the present year.
AT CHICAGO STRIKE
Chicago. Aug, 28. A tie-up of
freiKht shipments out or Chicago was
threatened today by a strike or
freight handlers at the Chicago,
Burlington & Qulncy railroad freight
depot. More than 500 men have
struck, according to union officials.
Railroad officials say only 100 have
gone out.
"The railroad refused to let our
business agents go through the
freight houses to collect dues," said
J. R. Roche, secretary or the Chicago
Freight Handlers' union, who de
clared that was the cause or the
strike. "The same proposition will
be put up to other railroads, and If
they refuse wo will call a strike."
More than 6,000 men, he said,
would be affected.
SEND MILITIA OF THREE
RTAThri TO llOKDEIt
Washington, Aug. 28. The Ohio,
Kentucky and Vermont mllltla, which
FREIGHT
HANDLES
ITALY TELLS WHY
1 WAS HE
r
wm
Rome, Aug. 28. Italy declared
war on Germany because Germany
seut .both land and sea forces to the
aid of Austria, enabling (Austria to
concentrate her maximum effort
against Italy, said an official state
ment Issued here tdday.
A similar itatement waa forward
ed to the German foreign office
through the Swiss government, set
ting forth the reason for the declara
tton of war yesterday.
Excepting the capture of Gorlu,
no event of several months has so
stirred the Italian public aa the news
of Italy's challenge to the kaiser.
Newspapers flaahed the word to the
Sunday holiday crowds and an enorm
ous crowd quickly gathered In
Plum Colonna.
A great procession formed and par
aded through the principal streets,
shouting "Down with Germany" and
"Lone live the allies," until mid
night.
I The declaration of war against
.Germany waa followed In a few hours
by the royal decree confiscating the
historic Valazxo dl Venetla. which tor
centuries had constituted virtually an
Austrian province In the heart of
Rome.
The Palasto, a square of land with
two ancient palaces, was the prop
erty of the pope, but In 1850 was pre
sented to the republic of Venice bjr
Pope Pius IX. It later came Into the
possession of Austria and was the
home of the Austrian embassy. The
embassy documents were sent to the
Vatican for safe keeping.
ML AKED CAUSE OF
I ' DIVISION IV CHURCH
. San Francisco. Aug. 28. Rev. C.
F. Aked. one of the leaders of the
Ford peace party, was the central
figure In a threatened church split
.here today. Because more than one-
third of the member of the First
Congregational church voted against
the calling of Rev. H. S. Brady, of
Worcester, Mass., as successor to
Aked, the matter will bo threshed out
at a special session September 5.
Aked's supporters say he will be
re-appolnted.
One of the trustees declared there
Is no chance to have Aked back as
pastor, as only "long-haired men and
short-haired women" are behind the
movement.
A two-thirds vote of the congrega
tion Is necessary to authorise a call.
LWAY TRIM
FOR RELIEF OF STRIKING EMPLOYES
Washington, Aug. 28. Fifteen
million dollars bulged In the war
chest of the railroad brotherhoods.
This amount, about equally divided
among the four unions, Is ready to
day for distribution among the men
should they need strike relief. It Is
to he doled out In portions of f 40 a
month among the 400,000 men who
would be Involved in a national rail
road tie-up. How long It would last
Is problematical, for relief might start
with the opening of the strike or
might be delayed until later.
As the brotherhood men view It,
their mighty war chest probably
would not be touched In tho forth
coming strike, for they believe It
would be so brief that the men would
not feol the pinch or unemployment.
This great war fund has been gath
ered through weekly contributions
covering a long spare of time, The
assessment varies according to the
GOLDEN IILEE
E
T OF
III III
MllTIES
Kansas City, Aug. 28. Mobiliza
tion of the G. A. R. (or the golden
jubilee encampment continued today,
the forces of faded blue oourinc
through Union station in Increasing
numbers as the veterans from Kansas
and Missouri and nearby states be
gan to arrive. The first real con
vention meeting will not be held un
til tomorrow night, and many plan
ned to get here before then.
With the aid of the boy scouts, the
visiting delegates were handled with
out a hitch. The scouts showed par
ties to hotels and rooms, lugged
heavy grips, ran all sorts of errands,
winning the heart of the old soldiers
and their companions.
Threats of a railway strike have
kept many of "Lincoln's toys" from
attending the encampment, Lieut
General John R. Adams said, adding
that the failure of the railroads to
grant rates and the hot summer In
nearly every section of the country
had also cut attendance.
Here, however, the choicest weath
er prevailed, the maximum yesterday
being 68 degrees.
Indications point that this will he
the last national encampment. Sam
D. Brown, commander of the depart
ment of Kentucky, proposes hereafter
that encampments be not held en
masse, but by delegates chosen from
each state, proportioned one dele
gate to each 500 members, their ex
penses to be paid by the encampment.
Commander Brown said it waa on
ly a year or two until the majority
will cease attending, because of In
firmities, and that his plan "will put
us on a business basis, as well as pa
triotic."
He feels sure 500 comrades could
do the convention work as well as It
Is done now, and that the others
would be content to stay at home.
ENORMOUS LOSSES IN
THE SOMME OFFENSIVE
New York, Aug. 28. French and
British losses totaled 40,000 In killed
and wounded during one week of the
Somme offensive, according to James
M. Beck, former assistant attorney
general of the United States, who re
turned today from London.
Beck visited the allied armies In
France.
Mr. and Mrs. George Tycer are In
the city today from Holland.
HAVE
members' earnings, but the total sum
per year Is written In fixed thousands.
One little code word, wired from
Washington to every railroad center
in the country, Is sufficient to pre
cipitate he strike. The more than
600 brotherhood delegates who !eft
for thel? pests vesterday, carried In
structions foi running tho strike.
Trains on (he line will be run to
the nearest Junction; fires will bo
banked and engines oiled. The en
gines and the cars will be delivered
to the companies In perfect condition,
and every union man will quit the
property with orders to avoid violence
or trespass.
Only 24 of the biggest brotherhood
men remain here today. According
to their version, they must stand pat
on the eight-hour day with 10-hour
pay.
The feeling In the men's quarter
Is that the strike Is only a fec dn
off. ,
STRIKE SEPT. 4TH UNLESS
DEHDSAIE G RANTED
Order Has Been Issued Effective on Labor Day if Eight
Hoar Day Is Not Established. Thoasfh Nesethticia Are
SHU Penrlinu at WacfniunW in HnnA itf Avrriv CoUm.
ity That Wonld Tie Up Railway Traffic of the ffeib
Washington, Ang. 28. September
4 Is the date fixed by leaders of the
railroad brotherhoods for the threat
ened nation-wide railroad strike. Un
less negotiations now being conduct
ed by President Wilson succeed in
averting the strike, that Is the date
when the trainmen expect to stop the
wheels.
This fact, first brought to light in
a statement by a committee of rail
way presidents, following a meeting
with President Wilson, was later con
firmed by the brotherhood headquar
ters.
Washington, Aug. 28. A state
ment issued this afternoon by the
committee of eight railway presidents
placed stress on a report that a strike
was to be called for September. 4.
Their authority for the report was not
given, twit the brotherhood represen
tatives earlier today charged the rail
road heads with having had spies at
brotherhood meetings.
The committee's statement follows:
"At a conference at the White
House between President Wilson and
the committee of eight a proposition
toward further negotiations was laid
before the president for his consider
ation. "This committee expects to see the
president again in the near future,
but before leaving the committee
pointed ont to him that if, as report
ed, the date for declaring the strike
had been fixed for September 4, it
would force an early conclusion of
the negotiations and compel the pre
sidents to return to their properties
to prepare for the issue."
Railway executives this afternoon
exhibited what purported to be a
strike order to become effective at 7
a. m., September 4 (Labor day). The
order was Issued August 14, was ad
dressed to all local chairmen, mem
bers and others In the four brother
hoods. The body of the order the execu
tives showed follows:
"This Is to advise that the vote of
the employes in train and engine ser
vice on the eight-hour day and time
and one-half for overtime proposition
was overwhelmingly in favor of a
strike.
"Notwithstanding this, your repre
sentatives have been unable to effect
a satisfactory settlement and a strike
under the laws ot the respective or
ganisations becomes effective (here
the date of September 4 Is stamped
with a rubber stamp) at (here 7 a. m.
is written in Ink).
"Impart this Information so that
those Interested will understand that
they are to promptly obey.
'Fraternally yours,
"General Chairmen."
There Is no other signature. A
statement of the "duties of members
and officers In conduct of strike" ac
companies the order. It requires
that no trainmen shall perform any
service after the strike hour unless
he already has begun a trip and left
the terminal. No difference Is made
between a mall train and a freight
train.
Of this feature the statement says:
"You have Identically the same
right to refuse to perform service on
a mail train as you have to refuse to
perform service on a freight train."
The statement orders all brother
hood members to stay away from
railroad property and warns, mem
bers to avoid violence.
. The statement Is on paper with the
union label of a . New York typo
graphical anion. . " ' . -
It was officially stated that nego
tiations between President Wilsoa
and the railroads have not bee
broken off. .v-.'m
WIFE SEES HUSBAND
DROWN Df WILLAMETTE
Portland, Aug. 28. Mrs. Arthur
Clark was suffering from severe shock
today, the result of watching her hus-'
band drown in the Willamette river
off Swan island. Clark waded into
the stream to bring back a rowboat
which had drifted away. He stepped
off a ledge Into 18 feet of water and
waa carried away by the current The
CANOEIST DROWNS 1
AT CELILO RAPIDS
The Dalles, Aug. 28. Searchers
for the body of George Roos, 18 years
old, Portland boy drowned In the Col-'
nmhla rlvAr riinMa f Pol 11 n twlfA
today It had been carried far down
stream by the swift current Roos.
perished when a canoe in which he
waa paddling with his brother. Wal
ter, capsized In a whirlpool. The
hoys were Journeying from Lewiston,
Idaho, to Portland. v
AUTO BAITS ROB
OIL CO. COLLECTOR
Detroit, Aug. 28. Automobile ban
dits this afternoon held up and rob
bed the driver of a Standard Oil com
pany collection car on a lonely road
itiear Dearborn, a Detroit suburb. They
are reported to have obtained mora
than $4,000. John Isbell, driver of
the Standard Oil car, was taken from
his machine, bound, gagged and left.
by the roadside. Hla muffled cries
attracted help a tew minutes later;
Meanwhile the bandits escaped.
OLD GLORY PLIES
OVER PACIFIC SHIP
San Francisco, Aug. 28 With the-
steamer Ecuador a day out for the
orient on her maiden voyage as a Pa-
clfle Mall line vessel, the Stars and'
Stripes are once more flying from an
American-owned vessel in the trans-
Paolflo trade. The sailing marks th
resumption of service on the Pacific
by the Pacific Mall company after Its
abandonment after the LaFollette
seamen's act.
The return ot the American flag to
the oriental trade was the occasion
for a patriotic demonstration as the. ,
vessel cleared. A vast crowd gather
ed at the pier to cheer the Ecuador's
departure, and the ship sailed out of
the harbor led 'by the battleship Ore
gon and escorted by tugs and harbor
vessels, shrilly whistling. ' , ,
xv. t.'.
II
