ftft
GERMANS WIN IN TERRIFIC BATTLE AT SEA
Weather Showers Probable To-Night and Saturday.
EDITION
EDITION
I " Circulation Books Open to AIL"
"Circulation Hook Open io All."
PRICE ONE CENT.
Copjrlfht, ltllll, hy The rrr 1'nlilMilni
Vo. (The New York World),
NEW YORK, FRIDAY, JUNE 2, 1916.
20 PAGES
PRICE ONE CENT.
MMMJL
wfot
BRITISH LOSE
3 GERMAN CRUISERS SUNK
PLANS TO NAME ROOSEVELT ..
ARE OUTLINED BY PERIS; !
OLD GUARD IS DICKERING !
Bull Moose Party Will Adopt Platform
and Ask Republicans to Nominate
Colonel Thinks Uninstructed
Delegates Will Be Won Over.
(Special Despatch to The Kvcning Wotld.)
CI11CAUO, Juno 2. About tho only tangible development of the pre
contention nilx-up is to tho credit of the Hull Moosers, who announced their
programmes to-day. George W. Perkins, commander in chief of the Hull
Moose cohorts nnri custoillau of tho bankroll, said.
"We shall present the candidacy of Col. Itoojovolt to the Republican
Convention. We shall present our arguments for the Colonel, nnd my
belief la that these arguments will convince the moro than 500 unlnstrui'ted
delegates that the Interests of the country demand the Colonel' nomination.
"These uninstructed delegate, to- !
Cether with tho delegates Instructed
for tho Colonel, will bo sutllclent to
nomlnntn lilm. That Is as far as our
plans havo gone In connection with
the. Republican convention. Whlln
many delegates to our convention aro
In favor of nominating tho Colonel
on tho Progressive ticket on tho
opening day, I think they will hn
governed by tho Judgment of thu
committee, which feels that wo should
adopt our platform and then wait
tor the Republicans to mako a nom
ination." When asked what tho Hull Moosers
would do'ln tho event that tlm He
publican convention falls to nominatn
Col. Roosevelt ho refused to commit
himself. Hut from other Hull .Moose
ources It was learned that tho
Colonel's managers will not bo dis
mayed If a preliminary count shows
that they will bo unablo to control
enough Republican votes to nom
lnate him. Should they become con
vinced of this they will Immediately
line up their Republican forces and
proceed to dicker with tho idea of
picking a candidate acceptable to tin-,
Colonel.
BULL MOOSE LEADERS TALK OF
A THIRD TICKET.
Tho ovenvhelmlngsentiment among -j,.,.t f,.i through,
the Hull Moose leaders and delegates Mr Hi nobis wid bo heard lata to
already on the ground favors the! day, Senator Thompson said,
nomination of tho Colonel on a thud ,..n " u "
ticket should the Hej.ublicans noun- I yjf U ULIllnAll rLAIlto
nalo a. reacviouiii y .1011 tiuiqn ii
platform that Is not up to their ideals '
of progresslveness. Uitt the foloiu l'.,
followers do not anticipate that they
(Continued on Second l'age )
(For Rclno Results Sec Page 2.)
(Entries on Pane 6.)
CONVENTION
ANNOUNCEMENT
The following Famous Writers and
Public Men will report the Repub
lican National Convention at Chi
cago for The New York World.
WILLIAM ALLEN WHITE
IDA M. TARBELL
WILLIAM JENNINGS BRYAN
GEORGE W. PERKINS
Bcqjnning Next Monday, June 5.
DIRECTOR VANDERBILT
TELLS OF SEEING READ
.Met Him in London Hotel and
Hirst I. earned nf Hie Stevens
Contract.
Cornelius Vamlerbllt, Interboniugh
director, was questioned this after
noon by tho Thompson I'ommltfn.
They wanted to tlnd out what he
knows aliotit th "commitments anil
obligations." Mr. Vandprbllt told of
a talk he had in .London with William
A, Head, another director, who re
ported to him that Shouts had called
a meeting and presented a contract
for .Stevens to supervise thu third
tracking.
Ueforo examining .Mr. Vanderbllt,
Chairman Thompson put on record
the fact that thu committee "Is
through with the charities invcstlga
Hon and Its first cousin, wire-tapping,
ic." lie said ho did this to re
lievo any uncertainty at tho City Hall.
"Does that apply to tint Dock De
partment?" asked -Htuto Senator
William II. Reynolds, whos name was
tlim .,,
mentioned tnc otner ilay in connec-
tlii' .New York Dock Com
pany's failure to buy land from tho
in i( Ne w ork. Hom one wanted
i fr.n.OOO to "smooth out" the snarl In
tin. Witiktm li'nn.l I '.it ,i im I L.tiin rm...
LOST IN AIR BATTLE
PARIS. Juno 2. A pitched battlo
-inrvii vii-iuiaii una riencu aero
I plane squadrons, in which two enemy
; macliines were brought down, was
I teported to the War Office to-day.
I One Oerman machine was so badly
damaged by firu from tho French
aeroplanes that it full near Ktaln.
Two other Preach machines attacked
a Fokker, and by circling constantly
eloher to the enemy aircraft forced
it down, nnd flnnlly riddled It with
bulli ts. It fell near Houconvllle,
The French air squadron attacked
the fi-rmans as the Fokkcrs wem re.
turning from i.u (. iui Several
bombs bad been dropped on thu town
uy the em niy uvlatois beforo they
iturlcd to r. turn to their own lines anil
wire Intcriepteil by the French flying
squadron.
riiiiui (in -si.r.Ki'Kit to Kociir.sTr.u,
i.r.imiii vvi.i.kv it vn.iio vn.
Um e S.'ia st. IVrrj, M 1', II.; .lt.frt
M , IP I' M ; J4.k,ll Aiu., Ji-iMjr tit. U.S1 I'.
M.t Si-.tli, Ii SI l', M. JUrltM lluCtiwui
1.6S A, U, AltU
'( ,ii
.
30-DAY TERM FOR
'Stviul Revolutionist' leceives
Limit Sentence Together
With Fine of Si 00.
Houck White, self-styled "pastor" of
the Church of the Social Revolution,
was swiftly convicted In Special Ses
sions to-day of desperating the (lag
of the 1'nlted States March 19 last by
distributing circulars which carried
a cuitoon portra.vlng the Hag as the
dirty resting place of an uncouth
beast In human form grabbing for a
pot of money, lie was sentenced to
thirty days In tho City Prison and to
pay, In ndilltlon, a fine of $100. It
was tho limit sentence under the law.
Tho courtroom was filled with
White's "parishioners." Among them
were many who attended tho meeting
last night at which an American Mag
was burned in a "melting pot" by a
person who desired to advertise his
renunciation of his L'nifd States citi
zenship. White, bald, youthful looking none
the less, goggled with big. framed
round spectacles, wore a limp suit of
gray and no collar. He unnounced
he did not need a lawyer assigned by
the court, but would act for himself.
Wlilto went to the witness stand
and made a succession of speeches
while Justices Moss, Hilssell and .Me
lnerney sought from time to time to
BOUCK WHITE GETS
DESECRATING FLAG BREACH 0
got him back to the charge boforo the
court. Ho said ho was born In
Mldilleburg and was a graduate of
Harvard and then explained tho car
toon. Ho said It portrucd dud strik
ing with a thunderbolt militarism,
typified by a "Callbun-llke llguro"
resting on a blotted Amerlc.yi Hag.
He s.i itl the cartoon represented tho
highest Ideals.
"Why don't you go live in some
country you can like?" Interjected
Justice Mclneruey at olio point. "Why
don't you find a country which likes
lo have Its tlag desecrated?"
Wlilto soiiHht to Justify thu e.u-.
(Cuntltiuod on Srn oild Page )
510 Men's & Ycung Men's Suits, $5.95
Thu "HUD" Clothing iVirner, llroud
wuy at Huicluy St (Opp, Woolworth
DulldlnQ). im nib to-day A- Saturday
J .oOii Men's A; Young Men' Sultp, Pinch
Harks, bliip-.i. blni-k, plaldi, browns,
gr h fancy mixed. Slne. 32 tiHI (uir
pel ml priee lor to-day nnd Saturday.
ji.95. Oiii'ii Salurdsy night till 10 The
Hue Clothien, llioadusy. cornur Liar,
cley Utrett Advt.
.
TWO BRITISH
i ; , -. ir i
QUEEN MARY.
HEART BALM FOR
FPRI
ManslielJ Dotv Sues
Wealthy William Edgar
Smith for That Sum.
A breach of promise suit for T 1,000.
000 the largest ever recorded in this
State was filed to-day In the Su
preme Court by Cassle Mansflnld
Doty against William IMgar Smith,
a mbldle-aged multi-millionaire, llv
lug at the Waldoif-Astoria. He Is
the s- ii of the late William Van
Itensselaer Smith, who i partner
of tin Arbucklr brothi'rs.
Little could be learned abuiit Miss
Doty except as her lawyer. David H.
Simpson of No. MS Hroadway. put It,
"She was a woman accustomed to
refinement nnd social position and
very handsome." Mr. Simpson would
not disclose her address.
In her complaint however. Miss
Doty makes a partial explanation of
her demand for the heaviest assess
ment of heart balm by saying thu't
after receiving an engagement ring
from Mr. Smith she purchased an
elegant trousseau, expecting to bo
married on Feb. I'll, I9IJ.
"When on that day ho rl.it ly re
fused to marry mo without giving a
good tenson," Miss Doty sajs, "I
lost an advantageous marriage, mm
that would bavti given mu sociul po
sition and a husband with great
wealth."
Tho romanco which Mis.s Doty al
leges was blighted by Mr. Smith's re
fusal to wed began. It develops from
tho papers, two days after Mr Smith
vvnn divorced J it Heno b. his wife,
who was Miss M. Impulse t'lirtls,
well-known society woman The
dlvorco decree In tho West wa.s
awarded tu Mrs, Smith on July II,
It'll. Two days later, the complaint
states, Mr. Smith asked Miss Doty
to wed htm Thuy were spending
tint week-end at tlm Fort (irlswold
Hotel in New London, Conn.
At tlm Wiild'irf-Asiuriu to-daj ii
was subl Mr. .Smith was out tor tin
da For w vera I yeais he h in taken
chargii of his mother'n tNt.ite, 4(,u.
sisting of Jj.i'iiij.iioo left outright to
her by her husband, who began busi
ness with tho At buckles in their llrst
grocers -ipiro in Pittsburgh .Mi.
Smith lives at th" Vanderbiit Motel,
but could not bo reached .i-da
TIIK WOltl.K Ill.iVr.l. IIUICKVU.
And. lMlitin (UcrlJ) ilu.Miu.
U3-IU I'lfi How. X. T. L'ltj
TtckU irfUl-n. Mlliu-. r. ill t H.r
mnd. Covi .; ratil iM South Amin'u
tumtbtp Un H(i ftilisr:,! ch..k rem
mimt w 1. Tloilo BtOau MHO, Jufri
J
ASKS 110,000
IE
5 BIG SHIPS
BATTLE CRUISERS SUNK IN BATTLE
,, h !
BRITISH ADMIRALTY ADITS
LOSS OF FIVE BIG WARSHIPS'
Queen Mary, Indefatigable, Invincible
and Cruisers Defense and Black
Prince Sunk, Says Official An
nouncement Made in London
5 Destroyers Sunk and 6 Missing.
LONDON, June 2, Tlic UritWi Admiralt tills afternoon admitted"
the losh of three battle cruiser, wn liht crui.er and five Jestnners in
an engagement with the dernun fleet otf the coast of Denmark on
Wednesday and Ycdnetda. niglit.
The following losses are admitted:
Invincible, battle cruiser. . ,
Queen Mary, battle cruiser.
Indefatigable, battle cruiser.
Defense, auxiliary cruiser.
Black Prince, auxiliary cruiser.
Tipperary, Turbulent, Fortune, Sparrowbeck and Ardent, destroyers.
Warrior, light cruiser, disabled.
The announcement says two (ieiman battle cruisers were sunk and
two (ierman light cruis.'r were disabled and probably sunk.
The Admiralty admits that six other destroyers, in addition tu the list
announced a- lost, are unaccounted tor.
"The Cierman fleet was greatly aided," the Admiralty statement said,
"by its low visibility. It avoided a piolonged action and accomplished its
results by a quick thrust and withdrawal.
"The main British torces have relumed to port."
It was by low visibility tactics that Admiral von Spee's. squadron
annihilated the British He tinder command ul Admiral Craddock oil the
Chilean coast in Novetr.ivr, pji ,
The Admiralty statement adds that the Warrior, a l i,55o-ton cruiser,
carrying "o-l men, was disabled and later abandoned. An attempt was
made to low her back to British waieis. but the vessel was loo badly
damaged. No mention is made ot the late of the crew.
Referring to the Herman losses, the statement s,i):
"The number ot the enemy destroyed or Mink was utlascertaiiiable,
but was undoubtedly large."
The text of the Admiralty ttiiuimncf incut follows:
"On the afternoon of Wednesday. Hie lllst of May a naval engage
ment took place nlf the coat uf Jutland. The llrltlsh ships on which th"
brum of the lighting fell wcie the battle cruiser Meet mid snme cruisers
ami light cruisers, supported by fom I'aM battleships.
"Among these tin- lo-ses were he.iv v The Herman battle tleet, aided
In low 1st .lilt, avoided a prolonged action with our main forces. As foun
as these appuired on the scene the enemy returned to port, though not be
lore receiving severe dumago from our IwttleshliM.
"The battle . ruli-er Queen Mary, Indefatigable anil Invincible ami the
tContlnutd on
t ' - ' i i
becond Pat.)
i t
INDEFATIQADLE.
i f
GERMANS SAY MY SANK
MORE THAN TEN WARSHIPS
4
Berlin Concedes the Loss of One Bat-
tleship and One Cruiser Another
Cruiser and Several Torpedo Boat
Destroyers Are Missing and May
Be Lost Zeppelins Aided.
The greatest naval battle of the war was fought off the
nouthwest coast ot Denmark on May 31 and the night following.
The Germans claim to have sunk the battleship Warspite, the
battle cruisers Queen Mary and Indefatigable, two armored
cruisers and a large number of torpedo destroyers and many
submarines.
The English admit the loss of the battle cruisers Invincible,
Queen Mary and Indefatigable, two smaller cruisers and five
destroyers, six more destroyers being missing.
The British deny that the Warspite was destroyed. The
Germans probably confounded her with the Warrior, which was
disabled.
The Germans admit the loss of the battleship Pommern and
the cruiser Weisbadcn. One cruiser and several torpedo boat
destroyers are missing. The English say they sank four German
ships, but make no specifications.
A Zeppelin fleet co-operated with the German naval forces
and worked heavy execution among the British vessels.
I BliHLIN, June 2. (ermaii's high sea tleet met the main part of
the British fleet in battle in the northeastern section ot the North Sea on
, May hi the heavy engagement which lollo'wed the (iernun fleet,
according to a repoit issued' by the German Admiralty, sank the British
' battleship Warspite, the British battle cruisers Queen Mary and Indefati
gable, two armored cruisers, believed to be of the Achilles type, and a
large number of warships of smaller tonnage.
Several other British battleships are reported to have been damaged,
including 'he battleship N.irlhorotigh. which was struck by a torpedo.
The dmirali.s statement, under date of June 1, as:
"During an enierpii-e directed northward our high seas tleet on May
M eii.'uinteied the main part ot the linglish lighting lieet, which was
considerabl;, superior to our torces. During the atternoon, between
ikagerrak and Horn Kill', a heavs engagement developed, which w.i suc
cess! ul for us, and continued also during the night.
In this engagement, as lar as
large battleship Warspite, the battle
'V
'V
'V
v
V
known until iu.v. m denrn.j the
cruisers Qifn Mary and InJefaujjji-
lisers Qij n .Wary
