A
I
i
FINANCIAL EDITION
NIGHT
EXTRA
ituenmg
jfvL "tP,. S9vv
Sie&ge
ir
NIGHf
EXTRA
VOL. H. NO. 22 G
PHILADELPHIA, JfHEDAY, JUNJ3 3, 1916.
Cortmoni, 1810, st in r bbmo Limii Courixr.
PRIOJBJ OKJE OXBSPI
GERMANS SINK 10 BRITISH
WARSHIPS; KAISER LOSES 2
PERSHING WARNS
MEXICANS' AWAY
FROM U. S. LINES
Don't Come Within Gun
Eange, Carranz'a's Com
mander Is Told
TROOPS WILL NOT QUIT
Plain Language Used by Amer
ican in Conference With
Gavira, Says Report
EL PASO, June 2. The conference
between General Pershing and General
Gavira has ended and Gavira has
started back northward, according to
official dispatches received by Juarez
officials today. The dispatches con
tained no mention of the results of the
conference, which originally was
scheduled in hopes or getting greater
rn-nnorntion between American and
Mexican troops patroling the northern
part of Chihuahua.
" By PERCY THOMAS
EL PASO, Tox., Juno 2. Brigadier Gen
eral John J. Pershing, commander of the
United States troops in Mexico, Ib reported
to have served notice upon General Gavira,
commander ot Carranza troops, that Mexi
can soldiers must not approach within gun
range of tho American lines of communi
cation. That precautionary measure. It was
stated, was, decided upon even before Gen
eral Carranza. tho First Chief of the Con
stitutionalists, sent his threatening note to
tho United States for Immedlato -withdrawal
of tho United States soldiers from Mexican
soil.
Later reports from Casas Grandea said
that tho conference between Peneral Ga
vira and 'Genera) Pershing waB In progress.
Tho belief along- tho border was that the1
United States troops will certainty' remain
In Mexico. It was understood, that- th'o
withdrawal 'of the1 punitive expedltlphtwas'
not discussed at-the Pershing-bavlraimoo.ts
Ing, although the disposition oC Mexican
and American patrol forces was considered.
General Pershing is supposed to have used
plain language in dealing with the question
0 fattacks upon army troops by Mexicans.
On more than one occasion hostile Mexicans
have attacked and stoned motorcars carry.
Ing supplies to the American troops at the
front.
A dispatch from, Douglas and another
from Nogales said that considerable feeling
had been aroused In that section ot the
border by tho tone and contents of the Car
ranza note. Numerous Mexican families
, wero leaving the border for the interior of
Mexico in tho fear that a clash woult occur.
CARRANZA SOLDIERS LOOT
AND RIOT AT VILLA A1IUMDA
COHJMBUS, N. M June 2, niotlng and
looting among soldiers of the Carranza gar.
rlson at Villa Ahumada, east of Casas
Grandes. on the Mexican Central Railroad,
was officially reported to army officials
here today. With tho report came a state
ment that General Gavira assured General
Pershing at their conference that he could
control his troops-.
Following yesterday's conference new
supplies of foodstuffs were ordered sent
from here to the troops below the Ityie.
indicating that the American forces would
not be withdrawn. Big automobile tractors
with caterpillar wheels are being tried here
preparatory to making the long trips south
ward after tho rainy season seta In. '
20,000 MEXICAN SOLDIERS
GUARD BORDER, SAYS FUNSTON
WASHINGTON, Juno 2. On a BOCmlle
line 19,000 Carruiiista troops have been
rauiterd for border patrol work, accord
ing to Genernl Funs ton's report to the
War Department today, following careful
InYMtlfjatlon of tho Mexican troop move
ment!. This number Is double, that which
denial Obregon promised to dispose In
northern Mexico,
Tne bulk (f tho 20,000 troops, mostly
Infantrymen. ' masked In Chihuahua! City
una vicinity. Four thousand are In Chi
huahua City, 200Q Just south of there
end 6000 ha,vo moved toward Madero,
JaUorthwst of Chihuahua City. Two
thousand' hbfe moved toward OJlnaga, 300
miles tost -of Chihuahua city at tho tip
of the. Fig Bend.
OlhefB are mattered at yarlous points
on he COO-rolle lino between Madero and
OJInxo,
Gcneiat Fuiftton Bald "that, while the
newspapers reported, entrenchments of tho
Mexicans, nig investigators found no evi
dence of such a movement. In announcing
this disposition. Secretary Baker declared
GnerM Funstoji manifested bo appra
henilon, over the moves.
The' nearest Mexican forces are at
Conllnutd on ! Bit. Column-Two
THE WEAEER
FORECAST
For Philadelphia and
Partlj cloudy tonight and Saturday,
wth probably thunder khowera;
warmer tonight; fresh to strong south
Minna. I
vtcinity-i
IOST AND SOTJN
In 2
33 r tot
UOTQUm
.
ih.lit. jo No 112 5). tb OL 3
(S21 fltfl alMQ v&luabla tmihira nnd kills hi
I..-j tu dtMut.H. Liberal rward. I. j, a
OS J N. nrond t-
,0JtKTfB"fl5t;OEu;Lust. "3ujw IT awbrs
p. ik oatli Blsareit bUi with foil tmoo.
Kaiser's Squadron on Sally Encounters
Main Part of Enemy's Naval Forces.
Plunges Into Fray Despite
Hostile Superiority
Teutons Lose Two Warcraft in Course of Day and Night
Fight in Skagerrak, Between North and Baltic Seas.
Another Ship and Some Destroyers Missing
BERLIN, June 2.
LONDON, June 2.
The British Admiralty this afternoon admitted the loss of three battle
cruisers, two light cruisers and five destroyers in an engagement with the Ger
man fleet in tho Skagerrak on Wednesday and Wednesday night.
The list of admitted British losses i-ludcd:
Battle cruisers Queen Mary, Indefatigable and Invincible.
Cruisers Defence and Black Prince.
Dctroycrs Tippcxary, Turbulent, Fortune, Sparrowhawk and Ardent.
The destruction of more than nine British warships by a German fleet,
in one of the biggest naval battles fought since the, war began, was announced
today by the German Admiralty.
The fight took place between the Skagerrak and Horn Riff.
Two German men-of-war arc, known to have been sunk and a third is
missing.
The British ships, which were sent to the bottom, were the battleship
Warspitc, the battlccruiscrs Queen Mary and Indefatigable, two nrmored
cruisers apparently of the Achilles type, a small cruiser, the Turbanant, Nestor
and Alcastcr (unclassed), a number of torpedoboat destroyers and a submarine.
The battle bggan on the morning of May 31 and raged for 21 hours.
During the day the German cruiser Wcisbaden was sunk by gunfire and
during the night fighting the battleship Pommern wns torpedoed.
The German warship Frauehlob is missing and is believed to have been
sunk.
This is the first time the German high seas fleet has been engaged. It went
forth to give battle as soon as scouts reported the presence of the British fleet.
Skaggernk, near which tho engagement was fought, lies at the southern
extremity of Norway and Sweden.
The Admiralty 4tatement, under date of June 1, sayB:
During an enterprise directed northward, our high seas fleet on
'May 31 encountered the main part of the English fighting fleet, which
was considerably superior to our forces.
During the afternoon, between Skagerrak and -Horn Riff a heavy
engagement developed which wa3 successful forusand continued, also ,
during, the night.- j
In this engagement, as far is known until now, wo destroyed the
battleship Warspitc, the battle cruisers Queen Mary and Indefatigable,
two,nrmofep'cr,uiscrs, apparently of the Achilles type; one small cruiser,
tho destroyers' Tufbunant and Nestor and the Alcnster (unclassified)
a large number of torpedo destroyers and one submarine. '
By observations, which were free and clear, it was stated that a largo
number of British battleships suffered heavy damage from the fire of
our ships and the attacks of our torpedoboat flotillas during an engage
ment whfch lasted during the entire day and all night.
Among others of tho large British ships, tho battleship Marl
borough was hit by a torpedo. This is confirmed by prisoners.
Several of our ships rescued parts of the crews of the sunken ships,
among whom were only two survivors from tho Indefatigable.
(Note. Tho Indefatigable carried a crew of 790 men. The fact
' that the Germans rescued only two men does not necessarily mean all
the others were lost, as the British may have also rescued some.)
Among our losses was tho small cruiser Wiesbaden, which was
" sunk by British gunfire during the day engagement, nnd His Majesty's
ship Pommern, which was sunk during the night engagement by a -British
torpedoboat.
The fato of His Majesty's ship Frauenlob is as yet undetermined
and there is a possibility that this boat has been lost, together with a
number of torpedoboats, which hnve not yet reported and whoso fate
is unknown.
The high seas fleet returned to its bnse today.
Skagerrak is a broad arm of the North Sea between Norway and Jutland.
It is 150 miles long nnd 80 wide. With Cattegatt, the Sound and the Great
and Little Belts, it constitutes the channel connecting the North and the Baltic
Seas.
WARSHIPS LOST BY BRITISH AMONG
MIGHTIEST IN THE ENGLISH NAVY
Warspite Was Dreadnought of 27,500 Tons; Queen Mary,
27,000; Indefatigible, 18,750, and Achillies, 13,500
rpons Two Battle Cruisers, One Cruiser
The Warspite was a dreadnought of
'7 BOO tons: was 650 feet Jong. 91 feet
beam and had a draught pf 27 H feet She
carried eight 16-lnch guns, sixteen 6-lnch,
! anti-aircraft guns and four torpedo
tubes She was built In 1912 at cost of
S12?50O,OOO and carried 1600 officers and
The. Queen Mary was a battle cruiser ot
Zlfiol Pqns? 726 feet, long, beam ,.
armarneV eight 13-Inch guns "
Inch guns and three torpedo tubes. She
had a "peed of 27 knots. The Queen Mary
carried 1000 officers and men.
The battle cruiser Indefatigable was of
of 18,750 tons and was 580 feet long. Her
armament was eight 12-Inch guns. 16 4
talh guns and three, torpedo tubes. The
ndefaKt"gable carried 80 0 offte. '
She was built at a cost, of S7.500.00Q.
Tho Achillea was, a cruiser of 13.6611 tons,
480 feet long. Her armament was six 9.
Inch guns' four 7-inch guns, 34 3-pounderu,
iSur inlms7 one 12-pounder and three
oroedo tubes She carried 704 officers anJ
mln. She was built in W5 at a cost '
J5.900.000.
The Lowestoft type of cruiser, possibly
AW crSlser unk. is 6400 ton
Jmd 450 fe t long. T"e armament is. nine-6-mc"guni.
four 3-pdundera and two tor
pedo 'tuUsa.
The Marlborough, reported hit by a, tor
pedo. Is ft dreadnought of 26.09 tons. Her
Ornament Is terr 13-Inch guns, 12 6-lnch,
guns, four impounders and four torpedo
tubes. She carried 1000 officers and men
ud was built at a cost ot 110.000.000.
The Frauenlob (German) was a cruiser,
715 tons and 3S8 feet long Her armament
was ten 4-inoh gw, ten l-pounders. four
BiachiM guns a" two torpedo tube Sh
SSrUd 361 pmcers and nwn. The Frauen
KtaU in 190? at a cost of 13.000.
000. Th Britwb battle cruteer iBctoelbln urft
ot 17.210 toft 4 wa 56S test loug
H iWJWtweBt was lfbt 12-Uveft. guas, II
fowrtell mi thw tB4o tub!. 2ft In
vincible carried 750 officers and men and
cost to built J8,75O,00O.
The Fortune aaa British destroyer of
the K class o( 950 tons. She was 366 feet
long. Her armament was three four-Inch
guns and four torpedo tubes. She car
ried 100 o fleer h and men.
The Sparrowhawk and the Ardent were
of the same specifications as the Fortune
The destroyers Tipperary and Turbulent are.
not registered,
The Pommern (German) was a pre
dreadnought of the Deutechland class. She
was ot 13,200 tons and 430 feet long, Her
armament was four 1 1-Inch guns, fourteen
6-lnch guns, twenty 4-pounders. four 1
pounders, four machine guns and six tor
pedo tubes. She. carried a crew of 729,
The Welsbaden (German) la not regis
tered In available naval lists. She Is prob
ably ot recent construction.
TEDDY'S BOOMERS
WILL FIGHT FOR
HIS NOMINATION
Third Ticket Threat if Rock
ribbed "Old Guard" Is
Named
PERKINS ON LOOKOUT
"Wo Arc Not Propnring Ticket
Just Yet," Says Bull
Moose Chief?
Boy Killed by Train
Frederick DuPrfus, 11 years old, of Nor
wood, was killed by a westbound Balti
more ana uuiq exprecs train at 5' 33 o'clock,!
yesieruaj' o.ir,iuj i itoimes Station. He
was a son of Edward PuPrius. an employe
o-: the Jlemlngton Arms Company at Eddy
stone. , The boy was returning from a
Catholic church, where he had prepared
to receive his first communltlon next
Sunday.
SAMUEL G. BLYTHE
' Will Report Both
National .Conventions
Dally fos-the
i i . . .. .
Hi? first aructf mu zppmr 5londay
Betting on Roosevelt
Shows Increased Favor
CHICAGO, June 2. Odds in the
betting on Theodore Roosevelt have
changed from 5 to 1 against Roose
velt several weeks ago to oven money
that he will be the Republican
nominee.
ST. LOUIS, Juno 2. Even money
is offered today that Roosevelt will
be the Republican nominee, a chance
from 2 to 1 against Roosevelt in the
last few days.
DENVER, June 2. Odds of 10 to
1 that Roosevelt will be the next
President arc posted here.
NEW YORK,June 2. A bet of
$10,000 at even money was reported
to have been made yesterday nt the
Vandcrbilt Hotel that Colonel Roose
velt would be nominated at the Re
publican Convention.
CHICAGO. Juno 2. Confidence that the
Republican and Progressive conventions
would speedily agree on a presidential can
didate grew by liaps nd bounds at Roose
velt headquarters today.
George VTj Perkins, Bull Moose chief
tain, declared jankly that the Progressive
Committee's 0!a& nil along. Jju'j- been 'to
wait, for the- Jlcpublleanf to nominate a
President "beforo taking any action on nom
inees themselves,
"Wo are . preparing" said Perkins, "to
present to the Republican convention the
candidacy of Colonel Rqosevelt. We will
present our arguments fpr the Colonel.
"1 believe that these arguments will con
vince the more thaiy 600 unlnstructed dele
gates and that these, ,wlth the avowed
Kon.se ve It delegates., will name the Colonel."
First of nil, the Colonel's boomers In the
Republican convention will light for his
nomination, If their rfforts fall they nnd
the Progressives will give the Hcpubllcans
an opportunity to name another candidate
acceptable to them. It a rock-ribbed "Old
Guard" la nominated tho Auditorium con
vention will name n third ticket.
Though carefully refraining from a, dis
continued on l'air Three, Column Tho
DOCTOR AND NURSE
ELOPE AND WED
Hahnemann College Graduate
Admits Diploma Is a Wed
ding Present
j.4mJ
WEDS PUPIL-NURSE
Dr. Alvin Roy McGahan took Miss
Alice Lichtz as his bride just be- .
fore getting his diploma from
Hahnemann Medical College.
Pr Alvin Ray McGahan admitted today
that th diploma ho received yesterday as
a member of the graduating qass of
- i,..iil nMl.na tun, I, ur.Hdlni,
present He further admitted that Ills'
brda was ansa aiics uiemy m w u
pupil nurse at Hahnemann Hospital.
Kesa than 31 hours before he received
hut diploma, Doctor aicdahan and the young
(student-nurse, who- is now his wife, slipped
quietly oft to Elkton, Md where they were
married The bride, whose home Is In
Terra Hill Borough, Lancaster County, at
tended the commencement exercises. They
Wept their secret until this rooming, when
Doctor McGahan broke the- news to some,
ot bla intimate friends
Dr. McGahan will take hi brlda to hi
home in Jeannette. Pa Me wlR UVt, up
work ws an interne at th PiUsb,urgta Home
pathlo Hospital -on JbH 1 Mrs. jfcOahan
WQwq n bwh "J";-". T -i z
Qw ago, but 4urtag tb luur worths. r
1oW sh iS &? bubad wet -yoUe. eu
ggwi 1b tesfltal .
QUICK NEWS
JOHN COX DRADY'S GROOM THROWN AT DEVON SHOW
John Sullivan, n groom for John Cox Brady, narrowly escaped
serious Injury this afternoon at the Devon Horse Show when the
horse ho was riding hit the top of a banter. The groom was thrown
ovcr his mount's head nnd landed on his back. He got up, however,
' before the stnrtlcd judges i cached hint.
$1,050,000 TO REBUILD NORFOLK NAVY YARD SHOP
WASHINGTON, .Tunc 2. Tho House today nuthorlzcd expendi
ture of $1,050,000 to lcbulld nnd equip structural shop nt the Nor
folk Navy Yard. The sum of $150,000 Is made available Immediately.
BELMONT RACING RESULTS
First racp, 2-year-oldo, selling, with $500 added, 5 furlongs
Almee T,, 107, Lyke, 7 to 10 and out, won; Old Entry, 107, Kolioe,
15 to 1, 4 to 1 and even, second; Inntana, 107, Graves, 10 to 5, 7' to
10 and out third. Time, 1:07.
Second race, fillies, 3 yenis, with $700 added, 5 1-2 furlongs
Lornc, 100, Keogh, 3 to 1, 4 to 5 and out, won; Mis3 Puzzle. 100, Mc
Eermott, 7 to 10 and out second; Dorcas, 101, McCahey, 5 to 1, even
and out third. Time 1:05.
MONTREAL RACING RESULTS
Flrtt race, purse $000, 3-year-olds and up, selling, 5 1-2 fur
longs Thescrjes, ICO, Wolstcnholm, $5.10, $3.10 and $3.20, won;
Montreal, 107,vWnrtl, $16.20 nnd $3 20, second; Old Cross, 100, Mott,
$7.50 third. T me, 1:00.
Second race, purse $600, 2-year-olds, selling, 4 1-2 furlongs
Ben Otis, 106, Disunion, $22.CO, $10 and $3.70, won; Golden Bantam,
100, MoAtce, $3.00 and $2.60, second; Lucille P., 109,Mott, $2.60,
third Time, :56 3-D.
BIG INCREASE IN PRODUCTION OF CIGARS AND CHEROOTS
. The production of cigars nnd cheroots in tho 1st Pennsylvania District for the
last 10 months nmounted to 658,348,410, an Increase, of 41,69,300 ' over, tho total
production ht cigars and cheroots of last year. Thia section leads the' country in
production. The statement of production was made public todnyby Internal Rev
unue Collector Lederer. s.
UNIDENTIFIED MAN'S BODY FOUND IN SCHUYLKILL
TJio body of an unidentified man, clothed only In a pair of darlc blue trousers,
was found floating In tho Schuylkill Itlvcr below the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad
bridge this morning by Park Guaid Pinkerton. PInUerton obtained a rowboat,
lowed the body ushure nnd sent It to the Morgue. Sergeant O'Nell, of the Wood
ford Guard House, believes the man to ho a .suicide. The condition of the body
showed that It hurt been In the water about one day. Tho man wns smoothly'
Miaven, dark in complexion, dark. Hah-, about 25 years of age and C foot 9 Inches
tail. The buckle o,n his lea-.her belt had tho initial "JI" cut Into It, while a hand
kerchief bore the initial "B,"
79 CITIES WILL MARCH FOR PREPAREDNESS
NEW YORK, June 2. Charles II Sherrtll. grand marshal of the recent citizens
piepniedness parade, reports that 79 other cities are preparing to follow New York's
example. The painde, snjs ,ila report, gained over 10,000 new members for the Red
Cross in a single day.
SUGAR SCARCITY FELT IN ARGENTINA
HUKNOS AIRES, .luno 2. In view of the scarcity of sugar the Argentine Gov
ernment has Issued a decreo allowing he Importation of 30,000 tons of sugar free of
duty until October 1. It also prohibits the export of sugar. The quarterly official
repot t ot foreign commeice, Just published, gives Imports $52,491,000, an increase
compared with the first three months of 1915 of $3,192,000, and expoits of $127,142,000,
a deciease of $39,060,000.
BRITISH SPORTSMAN, KNOWN HERE, KILLED IN FRANCE
On the eve of promotion Lieutenant Colonel W. R- Marshall, ot the Toionto
Highlanders, known among sportsmen of Philadelphia, has been klled In Fiance. He
was 44 years old. He was captain of the International Cricket Club that competed
here a few years ngo with a Philadelphia organization. He had nlsu participated In
several rowing tournaments here.
PRESIDENT WILSON MAY TAKE THE STUMP
WASHINGTON. June 2. Although Piesldent Wilson so far has made no plans
for any long campaign trips this iiummer, ho and Beverat members Of his cabinet,
as well ns Democratic leuar of the Senate and House, nre expected to mako a
number of speeches dealing villi the campaign Issues. Secretary Lane already has
Panncd to mako several speeches, ur.d Secretaries Baker, McAdoo, Wilson. Daniels,
Uedfleld, and Houston probably v,lll also take the stump. The President Has re
ceived an Invitation to visit the San Diego Exposition In California If he makes a
flp across the continent, and also hus been strongly urged to go to Detroit In July.
He took both invitations u ,der advisement, saying he could make no definite
plans jet.
BRYAN PREDICTS NOMINATION OF HUGHES
NKW ORLEANS, June 2.--William J. Rryn said today that Colonel Roosevelt
would 'tot be nominated by the Republican Convention, Ho predicted that Justice
Hughes would get the nomination. "It H fair to assume from Justice Hughes
silence," he said, "that he will accept the nomination If It comes to him In such a
way as to make its acceptance seem a duty to his party."
YOUNG WIFE, AFTER QUARREL, DIES FROM POISON
Mrs, Reta Minor, 22 years old, who took several polsolr tablets May 24 at the
I ome of her mother, 1655 North Wilton street, following a quarrel with her husband,
U'ed this morning at the West Philadelphia Homeopathic Hospital. Her husband
was with her when she died, but nhe exnressed no sorrow for her act. The couple
lived at 18th and Race streets. After the quarrel, Mrs. Minor went to her mother's
home and took the tablets while her mother waj the kitchen preparing the
evening meal,
DANIELS 100 PER CENT, EFFICIENCY, SAYS BENSON
ANNAPOLIS. Md., June 2. What the Bureau of Operations, created 14 months
ago, has done to co-ordinate the navy's activities and to put It on a mora efficient
basis was related by near Admiral William S. Benson, chief of operations, at u
banquet given last night by the graduating class of the Naval Academy. ' Responding
to the toast "The Nayy," Admiral Benson declared that Secretary Daniels crepd was
100 per cent, efllclenoy for men and ships, and that the operations bureau had made
possible a long step tonard realization of suph a policy, under which "every unit of
the fleet will at all times be ready to perform Its functions, whatever the occasion
tfiat may require Its service." All the ships but two are ready for Instant duty, he
added.
WIDENER PAYS 200,000 FOR MORGAN TAPESTRY
Joseph E. Wulener has bought the tapestry known as the Dolfus, Crucifixion,
vhlcp. was part of the J. Plwpont Morgan collection, at the Metropolitan Museum,
Tp.a sum paid was $200t000. Another of th Morgan gems, the Mirlu tapestry,
wns recently purchased by 3'r Widene for $109,000. Both tapestriea wm"l adda
to the. WWener art colUsllon. nw the, greatest In America, lu fptembM, VnUl
that tnna tbsy wilt remain at the. New Ywrfc ussum, Ih Dulf ua CruAft3dn, wsgvta
ltU foM m Uk,. bslonga to thf Bultwi 1 Attn awf, Berwick, and ws
d!gad y U yiemhrt PfKtter BrH ymi Qrie .bout ISM.
HURLS DOWN TWO
GERMAN 'PLANES
Circling Machines Riddlfc
Fokker Other Aeroplane
Plunges to Earth
PITCHED BATTLE ALOFT
Enemy Aircraft Intercepted Re
turning to Own Lines After
Bomb Raid on Towns .
PARIS, June 2. A pitched battle be
tween German and French aeroplane squad
rons, In which two enemy machines wr
brought down, was reported to the War
r
Office today.
One German machine was so badly darev
aged by fire from tho French aeroplanes
that It fell near Etaln. m
Two other .French machines attacked' A
Fokker, and by clrcllng.constantly closer to
the enemy aircraft, forced it down and
finally, riddled with bullets, it fell near
Bouconvllle.
The French air squadron attacked th
Germans as the Fokkers were returning
from Barle Due. Sccrnl bombs had'' been
dropped on the town by the enemy aviators
before they started to .return to their own
lines, nnd wero Intercepted by tho FrencS
flying squadron.
COPS CAN'T FIND GIRL 1
FOR WHOM, THEY SAY,
BOY SHOT F0URLADS
Two Victims of Fight at 20th
and Vine Streets in Critical
Conditio?! Assailant
He)d
TRAGEDY
j r i v
OF JEAL.OUSY
4. Jh
Ji iiBi. j t-Ti HS 7 4vl-4t 3 a
& vi r ..ivx K E u
i 'Sk Pi Z ,
JEREMIAH O'MULLIN
Eightccn-ycnr-old youth, who shot
four others at 20th nnd Vina
streets ns n result of a quarrel
over a girl.
The Identity of the girl, because of whorav
the police say. two men are today In
critical condition at the Medlco-Chlrurglcal
Hospital, while twq others, slightly ln
Jured. are being held nt the 15th and Vln
strectB police station, due to a revolve
fight last night at 20th pd Vine streets,
has not been learned by the police,
Arraigned tiefora Magistrate Tracy thU
morning on charges of aggravated assault
and battery and carrying concealed wa
pons. Jeremiah O'Muliln, 18 years old, of
121 Van'Telt street, who did the shooting,
aa held for a further hearing next Rrl
day in ball pf 11500.
The only witnesses examined by tn
.Magistrate were Lieutenant Myers and.
Sergeant Gregory, of the 18th and Vlruj
streets statlqn. wh? made the arrest, Greg
ory said he heard the revolver firing, and,
i,,...,irt in ,, Rr?iriA. found the fisht in
progress, although O'MulHo began to run.
with one sni eiw ien in mo i..., -
soon as hs w tho policeman,
TWO SLlOHTLf WOUNDED.
Charles Lenmim, Id years. d. pt JUS
North 224 Mreet, and Francis Ryan, IS
years old, qf 1108 Wood street, are only
slightly .wounded, but eacji has s, bullet In
his body, the former In his thigh. TOStttss
latter In his right arm- Physicians ais
have probed fpr the bulletB In the Jreaj
of WUlIara McGlnley. 20 years o!d, of jl
Callowhill street, and In the neck Of Wil
Hani Casey. 2.0 years old, of t Wber
street, but have not been able, iq locaU
them. ... , '
O'Muliln used a 22 ca)(bra revoher. It
told Magistrate Tracy that he carrfed 1
for protection," .
"Jt that t the caset" demandf ih
Magistrate, "wby didn't you get a real
one?"
Otherwise O'Muliln would say iwthuiy
although he was given every opportunity !
tell everything
According to statements to the polt
Casey was the, ardent suitor rewttd for
O'Muliln. ' Casey's s&ttg ned tt
O'Muliln that he "hid better quit ourt
Ing the girl." But, llk ittrut tawr, ib
threat only Inspired hint t mor -! t'
forts and more, frequent visits,
WAIT FOR VICTIM,
Returning froo a. visit a h trirt
found the gang wtn inr miu. -
Mtootuw? pegan. -v
t?mir vrtut, mti are be!?
terjal witness. Tftr mf'
ty. 1 ytrw. If-'
-,.,.. &V&Mto Ifpflnass
CuliwMii -troet J -
fL-MA-, ffhA stFAe)1
Ttw- afcqfttwf, si -timm fpvton&
fqrtlmi- frtt y J.fci. luitniin il T1
;::M.
.ilfi
$ffl
aSS
