THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAE
10 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, FRIDAY MORNING, JUNE 2, 1916
10 PAGES
VOL. XXVTL, NO. 15
THIRTY THOUSAND MEXICAN TROOPS ARE NEARING BORDER
0
Colonel Roosevelt SdysmtSd't Believe In "Letting George Do It" FUHSTDN TEUJ5
EMPLOYER ID
EMPLOYE IN THE !
niur nnn TniTi'c
MtUUb Itn
GERMANS SWITCH THEIR
OFFENSIVE AND MAKE
WA Y INTO FRENCH LINE
Former President Tells
Newark Audience Against
Preparedness Where Pa
triotic Employer Tells His
Employes to "Do It"
ONLY EIGHT JURORS
IN FIFTEEN DAYS
IS APPLAUDED
BY THOUSANDS
Stops Off Iii New Jersey
City to Deliver Address
At 'Celebration of 250th
Anniversary of Founding
of Newark
I WAUKEGAN, III., June 1.
I Efforts to complete the jury for
i the trial of W illiam Orpet, the
I university student, charged with
the murder of his former sweet-
i heart, Marion 1-ambert, failed j
! again today. At the end of the
day, the fifteenth since the start i
; of the trial, there were still only
eight jurors in the box. The ex-
umination of talesmen will be
' continued tomorrow.
Attack Made Over Front of
Two Miles and Is Pre-,
ceded By Violent Artillery
French Machine (Inns
Effective
BRANDEIS IS
CONFIRMED EDO
THE 0. S. BENCH
NO CHANGE DETERMINATION
MOVEMENTS
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEWARK, June 1. Returning
from hit middle western trip Col
onel Theodore Roosevelt stopped
here tonight on his way to his
home at Oyster Bay to deliver an
address at the industrial exposition
held in connection with the celebra
tion of the 250th anniversary of
the founding of Newark. He was
greeted by thousands of persons
who heartily applauded him.
Before he entered the exposition
building Colonel Roosevelt stopped
to address briefly a company of
New Jersey National Guardsmen.
"I do not believe," he said, "in
weasel words or weasel deeds. I
don't believe in 'letting George do
it.' But I do believe in prepared
ness. I am glad to greet you men
who represent preparedness.
"I do not believe in that kind of
preparedness where the patriotic
employer tells his employes to 'do
it.' I believe the employer and the
employe should sleep in the same
dog tent if we are to have effective
preparedness."
In his formal address in the armory
Colonel Roosevelt touched at consid-
N
IN STATE OF
PREPAREDNESS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
The Germans switched their offen
sive from the region of Le Mod Honiine
northwest of Verdun, to the sector be
tween the Thiaumont Farm and Vaux,
northeast of the fortress and have sue- j ator
Repiblican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON', June 1. Louis D.
Brandeis, nominated to the supreme
court and bitterly fought by repub
licans for five months, was confirmed
late today by the senate. The vote
was 47 to rl. Three republicans who
oted for Brandeis were Senators La
Kollette. Xorris and Poindexter. Sen-
Newlands was the only demo-
TO CONTINUE U. S. TROOPS IN
IN OA
MEXICO UNTIE DIET ASSURED
seeded in entering French first line crit who voted against him. Senators
trenches between Fort Douaumont and t Clapp and (Ironmt. republicans, were
aux. j paired in favor of confirmation.
The attack was made over a front of The negative vote of Senator New
about two miles and was preceded liy lands was a complete surprise to the
violent artillery preparation. The senate, and the Nevada senator, real
French met the German onslaughts izing that his action had aroused
with their machine guns and succeedea comment, later made public a formal
in holding back the attacking forces explanation.
everywhere except at the point between "I have a high admiration for Mr.
Fort Douaumont and the Vaux Pond. Brandeis as a publicist and pnopa-
Meavy losses were inflicted on the Ten- gandist of distinction." said Senator
tons according to Baris. Newlands. "I do not regard him as a
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, June I. General
C'.'i rranza's note demanding withdrawal
of American troops from Mexico, has
brought no change in the determination
of President Wilson to maintain the
present troop disposition until the abil
ity of tin' de facto government to police
Its side of the border has been demon
strated. It was stated authoritatively
today that General Pershing's force
would remain where it is until thai
time has arrived.
A reply w ill be made to General Ca
rranza, but the form it will take had
not been determined tonight. Pres
ident Wilson read the hasty translation
of the King communication last night
A corrected text is being prepared by
the state department for his information.
While official comment is withheld. I
sent to General Funston beyond a re
quest, by officials of the general staff
for detailed information as to dispo
sition of Carranza troops. In view of
the note's open threat of an attack on
Informs "War Department
That Qbregon Has Sent
More Troops Northward
Than He Told Scott He.
Would Send
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAN ANTONIO, Texas, June 1.
Major General Funston today sent the
Pershing's columns. it was thought war department all the information i he
wise to give Attention to the military
problem although no doubt is felt as
to the complete security of the Amer
ican force under any circumstances.
had been able to obtain regarding
movements in northern Mexico of
Mexican troops. The report was made
at the request of the department and
The Mexican embassy distributed the details were not made public here,
copies of the new note to all embassies ! Except for the fact that the num
and legaitons in Washington today, ex. ber of troops the Mexican minister ol
plaining that it did so in an effort to i war has sent into Northern Mexico is
enlist the sympathy of other govern
ments for the cause it sets forth. Pre-
so much greater than the number he
had told Generals Scott and Funston
sumuUy this was done under direction he would send, army officers have seen
of General Carranza himself. Neither little to cause them to believe an attack
it is understood the tone of the docu
ment is regarded as decidedly offen-
state department officials nor members
of the diplomatic corps would comment
on this phase of the matter.
Some diplomatic officials express
j the opinion, however, that European
Influence might be behind the move;
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
ANNAPOLIS, Md., June 1. What
the bureau of operations, created 14
months ago, has done to co-ordinate
the navy's activities and to put it on
a more efficient basis was detailed by
Rear Admiral William S. Benson,
chief of operations, at a banquet given
tonight by the graduation class of the
naval academy.
Responding to the toast "The navy"
Admiral Benson declared that Secre
tary Daniel's creed was 100 percent
efficient for men and ships and that
the operations bureau had made pos
sible a long step toward realisation
of such a policy, under which "every
unit of the fleet will at all times be
ready to perform its functions, what
ever the occasion that may require
its service.
Only "the fragments of organiza
tion," existed in the navy department
The heavy fighting around Le -Ylort man ot judicial temperament, ami ioi ' sive, anu mai certain portions oi u, hile others thought it merely an at
Homme and the Avocourt wood has that reason 1 have voted against his such as the thinly veiled accusation j tempt to gain publicity and noted that
dwindled to intermittent bombard confirmation." that the president is playing domestic tne matter was urged just on the eve
ments since the repulse of German at- Throughout the fight Preside politics in regird to the troops and mav of lh(, political conventions in the Unit
tacks and the launching of a counter Wilson stood firmly behind his nomi- draw a sharp rebuke. It is doubtful, j ed States.
attack bv the French. ne. never wavering when it seemea
The Italians, according to Rome con- certain that an unfavorable report
tintte to hold back attacks by the Aus- would be returned by the senate
trians at various points along the Ty- judiciary committee. Before the cont
rol front. Especially hitter fighting mittee voted, he wrote a letter to
has taken place in the region of the j Chairman rulhertsnn strongly urging
losina torrent and southeast of Arsie- prompt and favorable action,
ron where the Austrians either were ' Senators who voted for confirma-
stopped ot driven hack in disorder, tion today were:
Lively artillery duels are in progress Democrats Ashmst. Bankhead,
according to authorities on the inter
national correspondence of the United
States" if the government ever has re
ceived a communication couched in as
offensive terms and containing as
many apparent violations of the or
dinary uses of diplomacy courtesy as
this 12.000 word arraignment of its
good faith and henesty of purpose.
President Wilson himself will decide
( ifficials are prepared to refute many
of the statements of the Carranza note
is to be made on the American troops.
Information that has been received
at General Funston's headquarters is
of a contradictory character but it ap
pears certain that the number of Mexi
can trcops now in the state of Chi
huahua is between 20.000 and 30,000.
Information as to the number in the
state of Sonora is more exact and
places the Mexican army there at
17,000.
Generals Gavira and Herrera are the
more important general field officers
should the president desire to enter into i under the direction of General Jacinto
a diseussion of facts in his reply.
Among these are the repeated declar
ations that General Scott, chief of staff,
specificallv agreed with General Obre
gon that no new expeditions should
cross the border and admitted that the
oblect of General Pershing's drive into
Mexico had beer accomplished. It is
know n that General Scott had no such
understanding when the El Paso con-
Trevino, commanding the Chihuahua
army, but today it was reported that
General Francisco Murguia, one of
Obregon's trusted generaloff icers has
been sent northward from the state of
Durango.
The Mexican troops were reported
well provided with ammunition. It
was announced today that the third
field artillery that has been here will be
in the La Garina valley and between Beckham, Broussard, Chamberlain, 1 on the course that shall be pursued.,
the Posina and the Upper Astico riv- Chilton, Culberson, Fletcher. Gore. So far is could be learned tonight no
erB. Haidwkk. Hitchcock, Hollis, Hughes. conference.-; or preliminary inqnlrys
Artillery engagements and ihfantry Ousting. James, Kern, l.ane. -Lea of I have yet been initiated to determine the
. i i . .U.i.. ert T ..4 Miri-1'intl T.PU'k I n itnro nf I hn rtiiilf A nii'i ront lv rrrw
ining is in piogicss a,og me ..o.e , enoree, .-r - " ' ' " ""' , common wit h oi her arm V off icers. he is ; ,tt, f u I .-Zthi- m
of the Russian front, but no change Myers, 0 Gorman, overman. Owen, are necessary so far as the withdrawal - , relieve two batteries of the sixth field
In the nosi-ions (if the Russians or the I'helan Pittman. Bansdell. Reed, Sal- of the troops is concerned. There is ! " . , . , ' : artillery that will be concentrated at
) ' , - . , . , . I . . ...... ,i..,t. i-.w-'iiiin- o: nines as wen as uuuei me
Teutons have been reported. sbtirv f- hal.-vn. rneparu. nuieiun, no o.iemion mai mai pussiiuiuy is
ference ended.. On the contrary, in , sent to Eagle Pass and to Laredo tQ
before the bureau was created, Ad-
erable length upon the tariff question. ! miral Benson said, and his work ne
He declared a protective tariff is the ' cessarily began at the bottom. There
barrier behind which American indus- ! was no assembled data with which to
try can be developed in safety and as- work, he declared not even adequate
serted that unless such a tariff is ere- information as to the naval strength
uted the I'nited States will face MO- of other countries. To find what ship
nomic disaster after the close of the was available for special dutv was a
European war.
"After this war," the former presi
dent said, "We shall face a Europe
task of several hours inquiry.
Outlining what has been accomplish
ed by the bureau. Admiral Benson
which has cast off the shackles of the cited the mobilization of communica
past and which industrially will be as tions systems, recently demonstrated
aggressive as any military power has : by the department: the reorganization
ever been in a military sense. f tne entire naval service with flag
It is time for this great country of officers in command of all distinct di- i
even being considered.
The president left Washington to
night for Annapolis to attend gradua
tion exercises tomorrow at the naval
ours to be unified in its Americanism.
One phase of that Americanism might
be the Americanism of our industry.
With this end In view, it is an absolute
necessity that there shall be protection,
that we shall have a protective tariff,
as I have on other occasions described."
The whole structure of the national
welfare, Colonel Roosevelt said, "rests
on the men who do the work of In
dustry and the men who do the work
of agriculture."
visions: the measures taken to devel
op the submarine and avaiation ser
vices; reorganization of the reserve
.ships with adequate crews of highly
training men callable of breaking in
quickly volunteers in time of war;
For Full Committee
CHICAGO, June l.Political sup
porters of Colonel Roosevelt and Jus
tice Hughes were jubilant today over
the defeat of the attempt made by cer
tain members of the republican nation
al committee to have the contests over
delegates heard by sub-committees in
stead of by the full committee, which
always has decided these disputes.
(Continued on Page Three)
rrn end of Lake Doiran was repulsed,
and that northeast of the lake Serbians
wearing British uniforms were taken
prisoners.
Austrians at Douaumont
PARIS, June 1. Several thousand
Be Tiger requiring a week in transit and
was further delayed after its arrival
here. Official felt therei can be no
questions of Urgency in a communica
tion so handled, and will not treat it as
a pressing matter.
As a matter of fact the new note
caused hardly a ripple in adminis
tration circle?. No new orders were
PREP DEMOCRAT u
tliat sub-committees be named 'to go
over the documents in the contests so
that the full committee need not waste
time considering trivial disputes, the
Roosevelt and Hughes supporters
scented a possible plot to have the
The Turks have taken the offensive in Simmons. Smith of Anzonn. Smith ot
Aia Minor against the Russians and Georgia. Smith ot Maryland, Smith of
have temporarily at least, brought the South Carolina. Stone. Taggart,
Rilsslan advance toward Mesopotmaia Thomas, Thompson. Underwood, Var-
to a standstill. All the Turkish attacks daman and Walsh. Total. 44. academy. Consequently there will be
were reoulsed. excei.t n Mamakhatun Republicans- IFollette, N'orris and no cabinet meeting tomorrow. This
SO mile west of Er:;erum. wnich was Poindexter. Total, 3.
evacuated by the Russians. Attempts Voting against confirmation were:
by the Turks, who are said to he heav- Republicans Brandy, Brandegee,
ily reinforced by Austrians and Oer- Clarke of Wyoming. Cummings, Cur
mans, to press back the Russians near tis. Dillingham, Dupont, Fall, Gallin
Baiimrt and Diarbekr filled. ger. Harding, l.ippiniti. Lodge, Nel-
That the Serbs recently reported as son. Oliver, Page, Smith of Michigan,
having landed at S iloniki now are on ! Sterling, Sutherland, Townsen.l, War
the entente allied front on the Greek- ; ren and Works. Total, 21.
Serbia border is indicated by the lat- j Democrats Newlands. Total, 1.
est Germar ot0cil ommunication. The The following pairs were an
communication savs a weak attack nounced:
made by the entente allies at the south- Senators numed first being for
confirmation and those named sec
ond, against Johnson of Maine with
Wads worth, Swansea with Jones,
Martine with Smoot, Clapp with Ken
yon. Gronna with Borah. Rryan with
Catron. I'omerene with Weeks, John
son of South Dakota with Celt, Mar
tin with McCumber. Williams with
Penrose, Tillman with ''.off Robin
son with Burleigh. Total. 24.
Senators who wore not paired and
who did not' vote were:
Clarke, democrat: Sherman and
McLean, republicans. Total. 3. Republican A. P. Lessee Wire
The nomination oi i.ianueis .u-, DOUGLAS, Ariz., June 1. Eight of
sent to the senate January 2S. It C()mpanieR comlosins the Ariz0la
was reierreu io me juuighuj omnun-
tee and immediately a flood of pro- 1 National Guard have now been must
tests against confirmation and memo- eied into the federal service, the four
rials in favor thereof legan to remaining to be mustered in within
()r in ttle next d:lv or Civo. While the ma
V sub-i ommiltee. consisting of I jority of the men entered the na-
BenatOTS Chilton, Fletcher, Walsh,
Cummins and Works, was appointed
to report on the nomination. It
Scott-obregon understanding, the Unit
! ed Stated has complete liberty to fol
j low any hot trail across the line. There
was nothing to indicate today that a
third expedition would not be sent im-
Douglas, Ariz., and the remaining
Texas national guardsmen, a squadron
of cavalry and a battery of artillery
now here soon will be sent to border
stations. All the infantry of the state
now is doing its part of the patrol.
(Continued on Page Two)
CONVENTION IN ST. LOUIS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire i but it is expected he will be here in
ST. LOUIS, June 1. The establish- I time for the subcommittee meeting
mi.nl of "Rotrer Sullivan for vice oresi- i tomorrow morning. Homer S. Cum-
When Chairman Hilles suggested dent" headquarters and the arrival of mings. of Stamford, Conn., vice chair-
a working quorum oi me memoers oi , ...an . , m- , d uaua, oollrse ot holding
the sub-cornmittee on arrangements of j open the meeting if Mr. Met ombs does i .. . ..,. T ,, tnrt.. u, .,.
in itself will delay anv, early replv to As t0 Illp ""Jt ot the expedition
Carrama and it is generally- believed raving been accomplished armyoffi
that no answer will be framed for a I cl;,ls h'lieve that "rAV tne Presence of
wool- or in flnvt ! General Pershing's force where it is,
The Mexican note was sent by Mes
Conference "Satisfactory"
COLONIA DCBLAX, Mex., June 1.
(By wireless to Columbus, N. M.
The conference between General Ga
briel Gavira, commanding northern
assures p large part of the border free ,
frpm "ltt'iek- The not rfllalmaail tr, '
depend on repelling invasion at the "mrl"anua' anl General J. J. Pershing
oi cnarge oi me punitive expedition.
line when it is feasible to prevent the
attempts at raids before they start.
The war department had no advices
todav as to the local conference at
Colonta Dublan between General Persh
ing and General Gavira, the Mexican
(Continued on Page Three)
nniiT innniu ninnn
bill Wmm bUflflU
CHIMES MUSTERED !N
ended tonight "very satisfactorily" in
the words of General Pershing to the
press correspondents. Beyond this
brief announcement. General Pershing
maintained silence, and nothing was
revealed by either side as to the na
ture of the subjects discussed and the
agreements made in regard to the co-
operation of the two forces against the
bandit bands in this territory.
General Gavira was entertained at
dinner tonight in the American camp
headquarters as the guest of General
Pershing. American regimental flags
belonging to the tenth cavalry were
draped above the heads of the two
commanding officers. Iced drinks were
served, which was an event of some
importance to the Americans as it was
the first time ice had been available
in the American camps during the
long hot and dusty weeks of the cam
paign. Major E. W. Evans of New
York state discovered the ice.
not arrive in time.
public hearings. In all, forty-seven
iirltiif were heard and 1500 pages
Among the important matters to be : ()f tCHtimonv taken. William H. Taft.
Francis Rawle. Joseph H. Choate,
Elihu Root, Moorefield Storey nqd
Peter W. Meldrim, all former presi
dents of the American Bar associa-
In Contest From Georgia
(Continued on Page Thre)
the democratic national committee
were the principal developments in the
pre-convention activities here today, considered at tomorrow's meeting are
Chairman William F. .Mi Combs of ; The anoortionment of tickets: the
contests considered in secret sessions ,he nationai Vommittee failed to ar- assignment of delegations in the con
( Continued on Page Three) rive, having stopped over at Detroit, j vention hall, and the selection of tem
porary officers for the convention. In
Y j J f " T 7 I i the. absence or Mr. Mcoomos tne com-
r-l1J(Th0Q I 'iYlDO'V) VflTP. Imitteemen who are here decline to dis-
lllgrl'tJ LlOv0 KJIJIVKK 1 1 V VJVKssJ close the names of the men under con-
Hicieruuoil 1UI lempoia.v niauiiwu-
jship, although Senator William Joe
rttone oi .viissouii nan oeen iih-ouohcu
as a possibility.
No attempt will be made to frame
Republican A. P. Leased Wire .Georgia case, the committee disposed ' tht' Party platform until the conven
llne , -sixteen pros- of seven protests in Alabama, six1"'" meets, according to J. Bruce
( !1I( AGO, June 1. ftixte n pros- Kremer, of Montana, secretary of the
, , . . 'regular delegates-at-large being seat- ; - ...
pectivc voles for Justice Charles E. ; " " ... , , . . national committee,
n vwico I ed, while a protesting delegate from, ..... ,.,, lt ,,,, ,,
Hurl,,.. ln the reoublicau convent on t.. , , I We all know it will be a winsome
- r- ... .... - - U,. mom coiime-ssioii.il uisnici was
Went by the board today when the ! returned a winner. The session of
national committee voted to seat the
Henry S. Jackson delegation of Geor
gia. The action was taken after a
liVely contest which lasted more than
six hours and ln which it was neces
sary to determine the personnel or tne
Georgia state committee. twelve delegates, will be the first Secretary Kremer that "all who come Peck, of which he was convicted
A delegation representing the Wal- j taken up lomorrow, and this will be (0 st. Louis to see the convention will Dr. Waite was denied a new trial,
ter H. Johnson "wing" of the party followed by the contests from Missis- see It whether or not they have tick- ; Write delivered a short speech, in
tional service willingly, six members j been stationed continuously at each
ot the regiment have refused to sign of the two local smelters, the pro-
me musier rons, il was reported to- vost euard on dlltv jn ,he city is on
United States. The expressions "some
thing is bound to happen soon" was
most frequently heard The Ameri
can troops stationed here are pre
pared to meet any emergency. There
has been little lessening of precau
tionary measures since the steps first
taken immediately after the Coium-1 Conditions Improving
bus raid. A companv of infantrv has f KhSIDIO, June 1. Two Mexicans
who arrived here today from near Chi-
day on competent authority.
;the alert, while infantry detachments
buahua City reported that conditions
In that section of Mexico have im
proved materially irl the last few weeks.
These men have been arrested and patrol the border between Douglas! Tnev said tnat banditry had abated
are uoing sanitary wore ano otner and Agua I'rieta. Cavalrv patrols
tasks about the camp under guard, ride the border to the east' and west
pending the receipt of an order from . of the city.
the war department for their trial
It was indicated at the camp today
that they might save themselves the
General P. Elias Callea commander
in chief of the Sonora forces and
Ives G. Lelevier defacto Mexican con
Dr. Waite Is To
Die During The
Week Of July 10
somewhat and that those bands they
encountered on their way here were
friendly and permitted them to bring
their farm products through unmo
lested. They brought with them ru
mors that Villa is hiding in Northern
Chihuahua on the Santa Del Cruz
ranch, a property which he confis
cated from the Terrazas estate.
Cordial relations are being main
tained between military authorities
here and Colonel Jose Rionsa, constitu-
and 83!) men. Recruits are arriving w ho feel that their nation is being in- : tionalist commander at Ojinaga, across
tion. wrote protests to the committee 1 'um!FHmm '" mt " reiusai oy s.gn-isul here, express the belief that the
against confirmation, and Charles W.
Eliot, president emeritus of Harvard.
nig me mtisier rous ana rejoining situation will be amicably adjusted
their companies at any time previous but admit the delicacy of existing re
to the issuance of the order for their lotions .between the two nations. Both
trial.
are doing all in their nower to molifv
The regiment now has fifty officers j the turbulent element of Mexicans
A nni uinrnmnnt whk ttijmIp Inniirht
the committee lasted from 10:80 a.m.'tmu m additional seats will be in
until K:3i) p.m. without a recess, the ataned in the ,)ress section, bringing
last six hours being occupied with the , t , , iVL Even this number is
Georgia case which involved the en- i omy a fraction of the number of seats die in the electric chair during the
tire delegation from that state. ' applied for by newspaper men. week of July 10 the penalty for the
The Louisiana contest. involving ; Announcement also was made by murder of bis father-in-law. John BL
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, June 1. Dr. Arthur
Warren Waite today was sentenced to
tlmost daily, fifteen reaching here to
day.
Brigadier General S. T. F. Davis,
commanding the Sixth infantry bri
i glide, today assumed command
Arizona military district incl
of the troops between the New Hex)
co border on the east and Bochiel,
Ariz., a few miles east of Nogales, on
the west. There are approximately
(,000 troops in this district.
General Davis established his head
quarters in Douglas today in order to
be able there better to communicate
suited by the continuance of mintive' noiiuer. tne American otticers hav-
expeditions on Mexican so
(Continued on Page Two)
itry bri- . .
Librancisco Dominguez Is
Killed By Texas Rangers
in Georgia fought a stubborn baftle
Each delegation came to Chicago nn
Instructed, but It has been generally
llpni, Missouri and North Carolina ets of admittance." Mr. Kremer would which he expressed appreciation of
in the order named. , not go into details, but it is known the manner in which his trial was
Porto Rico, Hawaii and the Philip-( that members of the committee are conducted.
understood that the Johnson delega-I pines protested against their dele- considering the advisability of naming Tjr. Waite said he was very sorry
tion was prepared to support Justice gates being denied votes, while Aiaska one afternoon or morning during which f0;- his crimes and for the suffering
Hughes, while the Jackson delegates and the District of Columbia were all the marching clubs brought to this le had caused others, and declared be
were friendly to the candidacy of given votes, and the committee voted city convention week and all other hoped by giving his body for punish -
Senator Root, with John H. Weeks of to place their delegates on the tern- persons who are anxious to see the merit he would compensate in smne
Massachusetts as second choice. porary roll, with the recommendation convention in session will be permitted j sm,,u decree lor the deaths of his
Previous to the consideration of the j that they be given votes. . to pass through the convention hall. victims.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire der of Americans in the United
PRESIDIO, Texas, June 1. Fran- States, The report added that the
w ith outlying points where troops aieicisl' Dominguez, notorious Mexican I Mexicans opened fire upon the rang-
stationed. oanoit. was Killed in an encounter era.
Colonel B. H. Wilson, fourteenth in-I v uh tvvo Texas rangers near Pulvo. The two bandits were said to have
fantry is in command at Camp Harry Texas, twenty-five miles from here, been members of the Villa, command
J. Joneif a mile east of Douglas. according to a report made to the! which raided Columbus, N. M.. and
Wild rumors relative to plots and;mi'itary authorities today by the j later, it is said, they deserted the
counter plots were current in DoturlSS J faturerS, An older brother, also known ('arranza army. Afterward, it is re
today, giving the best possible evi-as Francisco Dominguiz. is said to ported, they killed a Carranza officer
dence of tension of feeling not equall-j have escaped into Mexico. and then escaped into Texas, where
ed since the American troops crossed I The encounter took place about I rangers say they had been commit
the border into Mexico. This was seven miles from Pulvo, according to I ting depredations for several weeks,
chiefly due to apprehension by Amerl-the report, when the rangers at- I A detachment from Troop L Sixth
cans and Mexicans on the probable i tempted to serve warrants on the I cavalry, under Captain Heintzelman,
effect of the Carranza note to the I brothers charging them with the mur-jwas ordered to Pulvo to investigate.
