WEATHER
MARKE TS
NEW YORK CITY
Average price of cop
per for week ending
May 31, 27.70.
ARIZONA Ceneraly
fair. .
Associated Press Special Leased Wire Service.
VOL 19, NO. 5.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, FRIDAY MORNING, JUNE 2,.1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
1 R F0RI1FS
I III I VllWkWj
W FIRST !
lien
niinimnii :
mm
BRANDEIS WINS.
Combine With Hughes Crowd
In Downing Effort To Have
Sub-committees Weed Out
Delegates
G. O. P. WORKERS
SEEM ALL FOR T. R.
WASHINGTON. June 1.
Louis D. Brandeis' nomination to
the supreme court, bitterly fought
by Republicans, for live months,
was confirmed late today by the
Senate. The vote was 47 to 22.
Three Republicans who voted for
Brandeis were Senators Lefol
lette,. Norris. and. IOindexter.
Senator Newlands was the only
Democrat who voted against him.
Senators C'lapp and Cronno, Re
publicans, were partly in favor
of confirming.
AND DAINTY MARCHING FEET WILL TWINKLE IN CHICAGO'S
KIG SUFFRAGE PARADE; 40,000 WOMEN TO MARCH FOR THE BALLOT
COURT OF PEACE
Preparedness Parade ' Also
Will Boom Colonel; Suffra
gette Wishes To Know
Where Hughes Stands
(By Review Leased Wire.)
CHICAGO, June 1. Sixteen
prospective delegates for Justice
Charles E. Hushes, in the Republi
can convention went by the board
today when the national com
mittee seated th Henry S. Jack
son delegation Of Georgia. The ac
tion was taken after a lively con
test which lasted more than six
hours and in which it was rieees
sary to determine the personnel
of the Georgia state com mitt
Each delegation came to Chi
cago uninstructed but it has been
generally understood that the
Johnson delegation from Georgia
was prepared to support Hughes
while the Jackson delegates were
friendly to the candidacy of Sen
ator Root with John W. Weeks
as second choice.
CHICAGO, June 1. Political sup
porters of Roosevelt and Hughes were
jubilant today over the defeat of the
fflOPlTIOI
CARRIES iN
HOUSE
$300,000 Voted Into Naval
Bill For Use By Delegates
After War,. In Effecting
Lasting Peace
MONROE DOCTRINE
DEFENDED BY CLARK
Will Live As Long As Earth!
Spins, And Any Nation!
Who Wants Fight WiUi
Gt Wtironel. H Sav i
(By Review Leased Wire)
WASHINGTON. June 1. An unsuc
cessful fight was led by Representa
tive Gradner of Massachusetts, against;
the section of naval bill embracing
the Hensley resolution authorizing an
amendment to the bill in the estab
lishment of an international court for
the enforcement of peace. The sec
tion, was retained without a roll call
aiuiiii made Dy cer.ain memucrs i;in the KOuse. sitting as a committee
tin? Republican national committee to of tne wn0e
have the contests over delegates Speaker ci'ark took the floor an(j
heard ty sub-committees instead oflaroused enthusiastic by declaring the
by the full committee, which j section was the best feature of the
has .kUded these dispi-tes. I bill.
When Chairman Hilles suggested j Advlcates of greater preparedness
that sub-i-omti.iiteos be named to go" , succeeded in obtaining appropriation
over the -documents it the contests jnot to exceed $6,000,000 for enlarging
so that the full committee need not f the fcaVy yards at Boston. Portsmouth,
waste time considering, trivial dis- j Charleston. .Philadelphia, Norfolk,
putes, the Roosevelt and Hughes sup-. New Orleans and Puget SOunt Capital
poi tors scented a possible plot to have ships would be constructed at the
the contests considered in secret ses-, puget Sound, Norfolk, Philadelphia
sions and vigorously protested. Sena- j and Charleston yards,
tor Smoot, national committeeman j Representative Gardner wanted to
from Utah, and a Hughes supporter, , know whether the United States would
led the fight against the plan and arbitrate the Monroe EOctrine, if it
succeeded in having the motion voted were assailed. That brought Speaker
down. Roosevelt and Hughes' lriends . Clark to his feet,
in tha .ninn,iiiiu ininuri hand!) to dp- 1 "I wouldn't take the time of this
feat the ,plan and claimed an Impor- committee if I did not believe that
tant victory in the first scrimmage that is the most important section Of
with the organization. Chairman this bill," said the Speaker. "The
Hilles and managers of the "favorite gentleman from Massachusetts wants
sons" candidates professed to see no to know if we ever would arbitrate i
sn .- r,A ineiniul tlio Vtnnriw Doctrine. No. we never
tlUlllMrtn t ill nit- ay w. aim ; '
that the onlv purpose of the appoint-1 will arbitrate it while the earth spins
nient of pub-committees was to expe-,On its axis. It Is the only political
dite the hearings. 1 proposition that all the American peo-
Bull Moose a Worry. Pl ever did agree upon. He wants
Republican leaders tndav inquired I to know If we will ever arbitrate
concerning plans of the progressive i Questions of war and peace. No. I
i n.-antinn wt.i.i. huvino i.ino . dope we never win De engagea in
J ... i TV'- -&
Y!TM IY : XSQyC IX
ijp -:u 1 kf i
' f
' ' r
i
PRICE OF COPPER.
The average price of copper for
thr inonth ending .May 31. accord-
ing to the Mining and Kngineer
inir Journal of New York, was
2H.l'5. The average price fur
the W " uj .M:iy 31 was
27.70,
CAR RANZA'S
r
; i
I
POOR POLICY IS
"LET GEORGE
DO IT" SAYS
OLTING
NOTE IB BE
IGNORED
Colonel
TEDDY
Tells N
I Is Most Offensive Washington
i Ever r.ntr Wilton Will
Keep Troops In And Take
Precautions.
ew Jersey
U. S. SEES NO NEED
TO HURRY REPLY
Guards Employers As Well i
As Emnloves Should Bear Scotl Say Note Misstates The
Military Burden
ROOSEVELT PRAISES
BOYS IN UNIFORM
Facts; U. S. Border Forces
Ordered To Locate All De
Facto Armies
! Talks Patriotism, Prepared-
(By Review Leased Wirei
! WASHINGTON. June 1. General
r .... i r . .- arranza s n-Jie uemanuing wiitui raw
ness, rohtics and rrotective ,..,. , ,
rr n r TL J A American troops from Mexico.
I anff Before thousands At has brought no chinge in the dner
Newark jUiination of President Wilson to main-
I tain the present trjop dispoMtiou .in-
(By Review Leased Wire.)
til the ability of the de facto ;overn-
m (c) Moffett
Top and bottom: Girls of Chicago Political Equality League as they will be seen in suffrage parade. Center,
led to right: Mrs. Harriett S. Thompson, Jlrs. Fred Uphant and Susan P. Kyerspn.
Suffiapist workers declare that 40,000 women will march in the huge parade in Chicago on the opening
day of the Republican national convention. They hope in this way to impress the leaders of the G. O. P.
Prominent among those who are making preparations rr the parade and who wilt marchin rt are Mrs. Har
riett S. Thompson, president of the Chicago Political Equality League; Mrs. Fred Upham, and Miss Susan P.
Rierson.
V LH' I L T . T -. . , : r
his middle western trip. Colonel .Theo-1
!dore Roosevelt stopped here today on;has bvvn demonstrated. It wa stated
his way home at Oyster Ray to de-l authoritatively today that Cener.il
liver an address at the industrial ex. ; Persuing s loice uvuiu rtaiain wuere
position held in connection with the 1 11 is uutl1 that time arrives,
celebration of the 2r,0tn anniversary ! A r'1' wiU n,aJe " eral
of the founding of Newark". He was ! Carranza but the form it wf.l lake Las
greeted bv thousands of persons whc,!not determined tonht. Pr.-k.-
heartllv annlanded him I d""t Wilson read the ha.-ty tIanla-
i Ilefoi-e he enterc-d the exposition ! tion of the long communi. atior last
'building. Colonel Roosevelt stopped to; niht" A rrected txl i. being re-
! address brielly a company of New;lareu D'. lne SUile Panmenv i,r uis
(Jersey national guardsmen.
I "I do not believe," he ?aiil. " in :
deeds.
weasel words or weasel
i don't believe in letting "George do it'
i
(
! information.
White official comment is withheld.
it is understood that the document is
! regarded as decidedly offensive, aui
but I do believe in preparedness. I ! "'at certain poittons jf it. such
a
lani glad to greet you
i sent preparedness.
) 'l do not belieA-e
men who repre- i
the thinly veiled accusation that the
I 'resident is playing domestic politic.
in the kind of
' . , rut ai-cnriline to authorities on the
K. . ..... .- n ... . . ...v
may draw a sharp rebuke. It is doubt
to authorities on the
international lOrrespondence of the
PFRHIWR fifjn RilflM Qlll 1 11fifJ RfRMflfJWITPH
l u iu iu uuu u u in II uiiiiimiiu Mil I I Ml I
t'uited States, if the government ha
received a communication
E
TO m WITH
mi
ATTACK AT
WILSON
; employer tells his men to 'do it'! I
! believe the employer and the em
! nlnvptt ttllnlllil en 1n thA smut. ttw ever
j tent .if We are to have effective pre-' couched in as offensive terms as this
nnrerfnosa " ' One.
In his formal at the Kxposition. . Wilson Refuse, fo Worry.
Colonel Roosevelt said in part: I t'resitient nson nimsen win ne
"After this war we shall face a , the course which shall be pur
Europe which has cast off the shackles " far a 'ulJ be to
I of the past and which industrially "sht. no conference or preliminary
Iwill be as asressive as any militarv , induiri. s have yet been iritiated to
Innwer ha. ever hMi In n.ilitarv determine the nature of the reply.
J Apparently i.'.me are necessary so far
l as the withdrawal ot tne troops is
Conference At Colonia Dub- Friends Of
lan Is Declared Successful,
' But Flans Of Cooperation
Are Kept Secret.
Former Chicago Pay Costly For Two More
Mayor Arrive Por St. Louis
Convention. McCombs
Fails To Appear.
Miles Of French Trenches
Near Vaiuc fond. Italians
Lines Holding
(By Review Leased Wire.) 1
COLONIA Dl'BLAN, June l.'(ny
(By Review Leased Wire.)
LONDON, June 1. The Germans
7. They are trying to pet some defi
nite information as to whether Colo
nel Roosevelt really intends to run for
president as the candidate of the Pro
gressive party, in the event another
man is chosen bv the Republicans
Harold L. Ickes. committeeman
from Illinois In the Trocressive party.
declared that he favored nominating j
Roosevelt, regardless of any action
taken by the Republicans. He said
Roopevelt was the first and only
choice of the Bull Moosers for presi
dent, and that he believed he should
be nominated
T. R. Men Everywhere.
There were more active workers for
Roosevelt than all the other candi
ites combined in evidence around
convention headouxrters today.
The effect of the campaign being
made bv the Roosevelt business men's
orrpnization in the different state, in
sending teleerams and writing letters
to deleeptes urging them to vote for
Roopevflf either on the first or sec-
(By Review Leased Wire.)
ST. LOl'IS. June 1. The establisli-
wireiess to t-oiumDUs, a. .m.j me ment of "Roger Sullivan for vie have switched their offensive ri'jin the
conference between General Gabriel president" headquarters and the ar- region of Le Mort Homme, northwest
fin vim mm mn ruling nnrthpm f'hi- .;..i ..r -...i. ; u, . . . . . . ,
nli biisinpss I don think veever! nuanua' an( te"eral J. J. Pershing, members of the committee on ar- northeast of the fortress and have
n? -! ' T. fii.H ,!k I!,n charge of the punitive expedition, rangements of the Democratic nation- succeeded in entering French first
"V , ' " """" " : ,V enaea ton'Knt "very satisiactoruy," in al committee,
aiiacK us. aim n uc -... the Wjrds of General Pershing to the ve?juments
power has ever been
sense.
"Americaniam."
"It is time for this country of 'Jiits
to be unified in its Americanism. One
(phase of that Americanism might be
. the Americanism of our industries.
With this end in view, it is an absolute
I necessity that there shall be a pro
; tective tariff as I have on other oc
casions deslared."
; The whole structure of the national
concerned. There is no indication
that possibility is even being con
sidered. The President left Washing
ton tonight for Annap'.)lis to hold
graduating exercises at the naval
academy. Consequently there will be
no cabinet meeting tomorrow. This
in itself will delay any early reply to
Carranza and it is generally believed
welfare. Col. Roosevelt said, ' rests on " answer : ue ..a... .w. -
thi ...on .hn An the ..rV nf inrliistrv I WCek Vr ten daVS.
and the men who do the work of I RePlv Sometime, Maybe.
agriculture."
whipped."
were the principal de- line trenches between Fort Douamont
pre-convention activities and Vaux pond. The attack was made
GEN. DAVIS GETS
ARIZONAGOMMAND
Assumes Supreme Charge Of
5000 Troops, From N.
M. Line To Nogales
DOUGLAS. June 1. Brigadier Gen
eral T. F. Davis commanding th
Fixth Infantry Brigade, today assum
ed command of the Arizona miliita
district, including all of the troops be
tween the New Mexico border on the
east and Lochiel, Arizona, a few
miles east of Nogales. on the west.
press correspondents. Beyond this hru today.
brier announcement. General Pershing , chairman Win. F. McCombs. of the
maintained silence and nothing was national committee, failed to arrive,
revealed by either side as to the having stopped over at Detroit, but
nature of the subjects discussed and it is expected he will be here in time
the agreement made in regard to the for the committee meeting tomorrow,
cooperation of the tw'j forces against : Homer S. Cummings of Stamford,
the bandit bands in this territory. . Conn., vice chairman of the national
General Gavira was entertained at committee, will open the meeting if
dinner tonight in the American camp . Mr. McCombs does not arrive in time.
I headquarters as the guest of General . Among the important matters to be tack by the French which gav them
1 1'ersuing. American regimental nags considered at tomorrow's meeting are: German trenches 400 meters in length
, belonging to the Tenth Cavalry were The apportionment of tickets. th south of Le Mort Homme.
draped about the heads of the t) assignment of delegations in the con- The Italians, according to Rome,
commanding oflicers. Iced drinks vention hall and the selection of tern- ('jntinue to hold back attacks bv the
on a front of about twj miles and
was preceeded by violent artillery
bombardments. Heavy losses were
. indicted on the Teutons, according t'J
Paris.
The heavy fighting around Le Mort
Homme and the Avocourt wood lias
dwindled lJ intermittent bombard
ments since the repulse of German at
tacks and launching of a counter at-
30,000 DEFAGTOS
IN CHIHUAHUA ARE
READY FOR BATTLE s
were served, which was an event of , porary Viflicers for the convention,
some importance to the Americans as
it was the first ice available in the
American camps during the long, hot
and dusty weeks of the campaign.
Austrians at various points along
Italian front
the
STEAMER GROUNDS.
Prussian." Some delegates expressed ! ThprP T approximately 5.000 troops gT JOHNS N
$100,000 SHIP BURNS.
OAKLAND. June 1. Fire which
threatened tonight to destroy Moore
and Scott's big ship yard here and
five vessels under going repairs at
PARLIAMENT ADJOURNS.
The Mexican note was sent by
messvnger. requiring a week in tran
sit, and was further delayed after its
; arrival here. Officials felt there con
. be no question of urgency in4a com
; munication so handed, and ill not
'treat it as a pressing. matter.
U. S. Troops on Watch.
As a matter of fsct the new note
aused hardly a ripple In rvln.iuiMr.i-
tiou circles. No new orders xrrl r
iviiuml Funston bevond a rei'i.-t hy
! officials of the general staff for de-
1 (By Review Leased W-re) : tailed information as to disposition o:
; SAN ANTONIO. Tex. June 1 "-Major Carranza troops. In view of the
I General Funston sent today to the note s Open threat of an attack oti
war department all information he , Pershing's column, it was though
had been able to obtain regarding , wise to give attention to the military
'movements in northern Mexico of problem, although no doubt is felt as
; Mexican troops The report was made i the complete security of the Aniert
! at the request of the department and can force under any circumstances,
ithe details were not made public here, i Political Trick?
j Except for the fact that the number' Some diplomatic officials express
of trcOps the Mexican minister of war j the opinion, however, that European
: has sent Into northern Mexico is so , influence might be behind the move.
! much greater than the number he had while Others thouuht It merely an st-
told Generals Scott and Funston he tempt to gain publicity and noted that
the oninion that the campaign might
j-ove i boomerang, while others de
clared that the appeal of the business
p'en would influence votes in the con
tention. Querries Huqhes.
Mrs. Antoinette Funk, representing
the American Woman's Suffrage As
sociation asked for Hitchkock to dis
cuss plins of wiring M. H'U'hes to
oh'sn'n his views on notional woman
snffrore. Mr HitchkocV declined and
exo'aincd thn he would not under
take to obtain the views of Mr.
Hughes on r political question at this
time. Mrs Fund said she might tele
grjinh Mr. Hughes on her own respon
sibility. State Chairmen Charles A. Rawson
o' Idti. in ripre of rHtnnin plans
of Serotor Cummins rve out a stafr;
ont rlsiminw votes for Cummins on
U' f'rft ballot.
Those in charge of the prepared
continued on Pase Five.)
in this district.
General Davis established his head
quarters in Douglas today in order to
be able the better to communicate
with outlying points where troops are
stationed. Colonel R. H. Wilson,
Fourteenth Infantry, fs in command
at Campv Harry Jones, a mile east of
Douglas, succeeding General Davis.
BLOWN TO ATOMS.
TULSA. Okla., June 1. A rough
place in the road detonated three hun
dred quarts of nitroglycerine late to
day, causing the death of two men,
the destruction of a school building
and damage to windows in Tulso, lOur
miles away. The explosive was be
ing hauled on a truck to. a storage ! ors had been destroyed. Honk el
LONDON. June 1. The House of
the plant was confined to the schooner Commons this evening agreed to a
F., June 1. The Calluo. on which it originated, the motion made by Premier Asquith ;Or
steamer Lingford went schooner burning to the water line an adjournment of the House to
with a loss estimated at $100,000. June 20.
Norwegian
agi'Jund in St. Mary's Bay today.
the matter was urged Just on me
eve of the political conventions In tne
Fnited States.
Facts M istated.
Officials are prepared to refute
many ot tne statements i
. i.Ote should the President desire to
American Flag and Those of Other Nations Burned
By N. Y. Fanatics, Proclaiming "Internationalism"
(Bv Review Leased Wire.) ternational commonwealth." Heinrich the proceedings hissed as Henkel
NEW YOHK. June 1. An American Weber, who spoke in German, re- biOke the staff to which the Stars and
flag and the colors of many other na- nounced the flag of his fatherland and Stripes were attached and plunged the
tions were burned tonight in a cast it into the flames while those Hag into the lire.
"melting pot" suspended on a tripod who surrounded him chanted "If die White will be tried in a magistrate's
in the yard in the rear of the Kev. we much, we'll die lOr our God. Rise court tomorrow on a charge of dese-
Bouck White's church of the Social Revolutionists;:" Weber was follow- crating the American flag by drawing
Revolution. "The ceremony" was ed by persons who claimed to be a cartoon In colors which showed the
fOnducted by Albert Henkel. intro- natives of Great Britain. Russia. Ja- "Banner of Internationalism" breaking
duced as "an artist". After the col- pan. Sweden, Rumania. Italy and over the colors of the 1'nited States
magazine. No traces of the bodies of
Wayne Roach, 26 years old. and
Paul Clawson, 23, who were in hrge
of the shipment, could be found after
the explosion.
un-
Greece, who cast the colors of their and other (Ountries. "This cartoon , rivi" ''- t'-i. wim
furled the banner of "International countries into the "melting pot . adorned the wall of his church. The
Industrialism". . Then came Henkel carrying an Ameri- prayers whlrh wer offered at the
After a speaker had declared no can flag. services tonifcht called for th "de
moment "could be more auspicious for Residents of nearby buildings who liverance" of White and tOmpared him
the merging Of all nations into the in-.crowded the (lie escapes to witness to the Christian martyrs of old.
. would send, amir Officers have seen
; little to cause them to .believe an at
tack is to be made on the American
; troops.
Information that has been received ',
at General Fonston's headouarters fs
of a contradictory character, but It
isnpears certain that the number of enter Into a discussion of facts in his
! Mexican troops now in the state of reply. Among these are the repeated
I Chihuahua Is between 20.000 and SO.-. declarations thnt General Scott, chief
000. I of staff, especially agreed with Gen-
I Generals Gavira and Herrera are eral Obregon that no new expeditions
! the mo'e ininnrta"t rneral fold ot should rros the border and admitted
fcers nnrter the direction of tlene"! ; that the ohiect of General Pershing's
.lictnfi Trevlno. pomnuniUpi: te : drfve Into Mexico hail been accom
!Chl')"n",s armv. ht oHv it wa re-! nlishod It is known that Genera!
jtvnrted that Genera! Fra"-loo Mnr-, Scutt had no such understanding
,cii1. one of Ohreeon's trusted rcn- hen the Fl Paso conference ended.
lend nppr h: bwn nent northward .On the r'mtrnrv. in common wttn
frn"t lh ftr rr llllrn"l ; oilier nr'Jiy n'nrrrs. nt- mi'i k mmi
A'tAvtcon tro-ns eo rurtiv( !; that under the original evchsnee of
provN'one -ih "mtmtMnn rsA wih j notes as weM as under he Scott -.(.vorl
lvMr!e- .rHi!--i- t - hrT nder'r)d'T th l"ntd
States b romrl"te l'ertv ti f.H..W
Willr ho"" K,snv h rsii Jcr ?n ". inl
pt t p.eie Pass sod tn tj,re.io tjwas nothin' to indiiat- today that a
r.iiere ) hH nf th wlthinl exneditinn would not be sent
V(M ri'W.. thnt -M he
trated at Doujlas. Arizona.
concen-. Immediately, should the need arie
(Continued on page three)
