I I Today's Metal Prices ffi"l a. f jj .& S.llH'4vw)V I 4 P. M. OTY EDITION 1
i , VLUf UJflJLPUlaUUariJ mfm I
m New York, June 2.-Sllver, 64 7-8c; A' 4f' ' JX y rW VJ T WEATHERUtah: Fair Tonight
mu lead, $7.35; spelter, $13.00; copper f - and 8aturday; Local Frost Tonight; , M
H firm, $28.0029.50. bJ Warmer Saturday. i 'H
K FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. : H
K . - 1 1
K Forty-sixth Year No. 132. Price Five Cents. OGDEN CITY, UTAH, FRIDAY EVENING, JUNE 2, 1916. Entered as Second Class Matter at the Poitofflce, Ogden, Utah. jH
GREAT NAVAL BATTLE
I British Defeated and a Number of the Largest Ships of the British Fleet Sent I
1 to the Bottom Queen Mary and Warspite Destroyed Many Men Are Lost I
111 - I ;H
1 GERMAN HIGH SEA FLEET WINS
I GREATEST SEA FIGHT OF WAR
I Superior Force of English Battle Fleet Meets Disaster in Heavy
I Engagement Which Continues Many Hours Two Ger-
man Cruisers Sunk, Two Missing, Together With
I Many Torpedo Boats Big British Battle-
I ships Severely Damaged.
(London, June 2, 2:02 p. m. The British admiralty an
nounced today that a battle had occurred in the North sea be
tween the British and German fleets, in the course of which a
a number of German warships were sunk.
i The British battle cruisers Queen Mary and Indefatigable
and the battleship Invincible were sunk.
i The cruisers Defence and Black Prince also were sunk and
I ; the cruiser Warrior was disabled. The German losses are de-
scribed as serious.
i 'The announcement says two German battle cruisers were
J, sunk and two German light cruisers were disabled and prob-
l abty sunk.
The British destroyers Tipperary, Turbulent, Fortune,
Sparrowhawk and Ardent were lost and six others have not
; 3'et been accounted for. The admiralty says no British battle-
4 ships or light cruisers were sunk.
I The battle occurred off the coast of Jutland. The ad-
I miralty announcement says the German fleet avoided the main
I British forces and returned to port severely damaged.
The text of the admiralty announce
b ment follows: -
a "On the afternoon of Wednesday,
ft the 31st of May, a naval engagement
took place off the coast of Jutland.
The British ships on which the brunt
I of the fighting fell were the battle
cruiser fleet and some cruisers and
i ! light cruisers, supported by four fast
I battleships.
"Among these the losses were
' , heavy. The German battle fleet, aid
pd by low visibility, avoided a pro
; ; longed action with our main forces,
i As soon as they appeared on the
scene the enemy returned to port,
though not before receiving damage
k from our battleships.
I "The battle cruisers Queen Mary.
wt Indefatigable and Invincible and the
I cruisers Defense and Black Prince
C were sunk. The "Warrior was dis
1 abled and, after being towed for some
time, had to be abandoned .y her
1 crew. It is also known that the des
f troyers Tipperary, Turbulent, Fortune,
I Sparrowhawk. and Ardent were lost
1 and six others are not yet accounted
1 for No British battleships or light
t cruisers wcro sunk.
I "The enemy's losses were serious.
I At least one battle cruiser was des-
troyed and one was severely dam
I aged One battleship is reported to
have been sunk by our destroyers.
:l During the night attack, two light
I cruisers were disabled and probably
sunk. The exact number of enemy
destroyers disposed of during the ac
I tion cannot be ascertained with any
f certainty, but must have been large."
i
Berlin, June 2. Germany's high
sea fleet met the main part of the
ms British fleet in battle in the north
eastern section of the North sea on
I May 31. In the heavy engagement
which followed, the German fleet, ac
cording to a report issued by the Ger
man admiralty, sank the British bal-
tleship Warspite, the British battle
cruisers Queen Mary and Indefatiga
I bio, two armored cruisers and a
largo number of warships of smaller
I1 h. tonuage. Several other British bat-
itleships are reported damaged, In-.
eluding the battleship Marlborough.
The Gorman, losses are announced
i as the battleship Poramern, the cruls
f er Wiesbaden, the protected cruiser
H Frauenlob and several torpedo boats.
f Berlin, Juno 2. By Wireless to Say-
vllle. The German admiralty an-
3 nounced today that the German high
sea fleet on May 31 had encountered
I a British fighting fleet. The engage-
i ment which developed, tho admiralty
says, was favorable to tho Germans,
' The battle continued all night.
H The German admiralty announces
I that the large British battleship War-
R spite, tho battle cruisers Queen Mary
find Indefatigable and two armored
l cmiBers were destroyed.
It is also reported that a small
W- British cruiser, a number of torpedo
r boat destroyers and torpedo boats
were sunk.
Many Battleships Damaged.
I The German admiralty statement
adds that by observation it was es-
j tablished that a large number of Brlt-
l ish battleships suffered damage from
tho fire of the big Gorman ships and
1' lt the attacks of tho torpedo boat fleet.
IS? The admiralty statement also de-
IK clares that the British battleship Marl-
K borough was hit by a torpedo, this
IK being confirmed by the prisoners res-
Mt cued. Several of the German ships
IK rescued parts of the crews of the
IB British shipB which were sunk, they
including, it is said, two men irora
the Indefatigable, the only survivors
from that ship,
Germans Lose Some Ships.
On the German side the small cruiB
er Wiesbaden was sunk by gunfire
and the Pommern was sent to the bot
tom by a torpedo. The fate of the
Frauenlob is not known and some tor
pedo boats did not return. The Ger
man high sea fleet, the statement
adds, returned to port June 1.
German Admiralty Report.
The text of the German admiralty
report, which is dated Juno 1, says:
"During an enterprise directed to
the northward our high sea fleet on
May 31 encountered the main part of
the English fighting fleet, which was
considerably superior to our forces.
"During tho afternoon between
Skagerak and Horn Riff a heavy en
gagement developed which was suc
cessful for us and was continued dur
ing the whole night.
"In this engagement, so far as
known up to the present, there were
destroyed by us the large battleship
Warspite, tho bnttle cruisers, Queen
Man' and Indefatigable, two armor
ed cruisers apparently of the Achilles
type, one small cruiser, a new flagship
of destroyers, the Turbanant. Nestore
and Alcaster, a large number of tor
pedo boat destroyers, and one sub
marine. Manv Battleships Damaged.
"By observation which was free and
clear of objects, it was stated that a
large number of English battleships
suffered damage from our ships and
the attacks of our torpedo boat flo
tilla during the day engagement and
throughout tho night.
"Among others the large battleship
Marlborough was hit by a torpedo.
This was confirmed by prisoners.
Parts of Crews Rescued.
"Several of our ships rescued parts
of the crews of the sunken English
ships, among them being tho only
two survivors of the Indefatigable.
"On our side the small cruiser Wies
baden was sunk by hostile gunfire
during tho day engagement, and hiB
majesty's Bhip Pommern: during the
night, as the result of a torpedo, was
sunk.
"The fate of his maJesty'B ship
Frauenlob which Is mlsBlng, and
some torpedo boats which have not
returned yet, is unknown.
"The high sea (fleet returned today
(Thursday) Into our port."
DESCRIPTION
OF 1M SHIPS
From the advices thus far received
it would appear that the greatest nav
al battle of history has taken place.
Never before have two naval forces
of such magnitude as the British and
German high sea fleets engaged in
combat. But apparently the battle
was not fought out to a point to de
termine mastery of the seas, for the
losses, serious as they are reported
to have been, will not impair the
strength of either fleet to a vital ex
tent. The Bcene of tho battle was In tho
eastern waters of the North Sea. It
Is probable that tho fleet was on one
of the excursions Into the North sea
which It has taken from time to time
during the war and met, whether or
not by design, with the British -fleet.
Skagerak is an arm of the North
sea between Norway and Denmark
The point referred to In the official
Gorman statement as Horn Riff prob
ably is the reef off the Horn, on the
southwestern extremity of Denmark.
This would Indicate that the battle
was fought off the coast of Denmark.
From the reef to Helgoland the main
German naval base in the North sea,
is about 100 miles.
News of the engagements was held
back by the British authorities, pos
sibly pending the return home of the
fleet, and the first word received of
the battle came by wireless from Ber
lin by which means the Gerrmans are
able to escape the censorship over
cable lines.
The losses in the engagement must
have been extremely heavy. The bat
tle cruiser Indefatigable for Instance,
from which the German admiralty re
ports only two men were saved, prob
ably had more than 900 men on board
and" others of the vessels sunk carried
compliments of men equally or near
ly as large.
The dreadnought Warspite was n
sister ship of the Queen Elizabeth
both of which played a prominent part
in the attemnt of the British Medi
terranean fleet to force the Darda
nelles. The Warspite was 650 feet
long and displaced 27,500 tons She
was built In 1914 at a cost of $12,500,
000. The Warspite is reported to hae
eight 1G inch guns in place of the 15
inch guns carried by tho Queen Eliza
beth. She also was equipped with
twelve or sixteen six-Inch guns, twelvo
fourMnch guns, four three-pounders
and was fitted with four 2Mnch tor
pedo tubes. Her compliment was 750.
The Queen Mary and tho Indefatig
able were both British battle cruisers
of 27,000 and 18.750 tons displace
ment respectively.
The Queen Mary was 720 feet long,
87 feet beam and drew SOTfect tf
water. The Queen Mary was complet
ed In 1913. She carried eight 13 fl
inch guns, sixteen 4-inch guns and
was equipped with three 21-inch tor
pedo tubes.
The Indefatigable was 57S feet long,
79 1-2 -feet beam and 27 3-4 feet deep.
This battle cruiser was equipped with
eight 12 inch guns, sixteen 4-lnch guns
and had three 21-inch torpedo tubes.
The Queen Mary and the Indefatig
able carried complements of between
900 and 950. The Queen Mary cost
about $10,000,000 while the Indefatig
able cost nearly $S,000,000
The British dreadnought Marlbor
ough, said to have been struck by a
torpedo, was of the Iron Duke class.
She was built at Davenport In 1909.
displaced 25,000 tons, was 620 feet
long, 95 1-2 feet beam and 27 feet
deep. She carried ten 13.5-inch guns,
twelve 6-lnch guns, and a number of
smaller arms. She also was equip
ped with four submerged torpedo
tubes.
The German battleship Pommern.
which was sunk by a British torpedo,
displaced 12,997 tons. She was 39S
feet long, 72 feet beam and 2o feet
deep. The Pommern was built in
1907 at a cost of about .$6,000,000 She
carried 779 officers and men. Her
armament consisted of four 11-inch
guns, fourteen 6.7-lnch guns, a num
ber of pieces of smaller caliber and
six 17.7-lnch torpedo tubes.
The Frauenlob, which did not re
turn to the German base after tho
naval engagement was a small Ger
man cruiser displacing 2.715 tons.
The Invincible was laid down In
1907 She displaced 17.250 tons, was
562 feet long over all, 7S feet beam
and 26 feet deep. Her normal com
plement was 731 She was armed with
eight 12-lnch guns, sixteen four-Inch
guuB and three torpedo tubes. The
Invincible took part in the naval en
gagement off the Falkland islands in
December, 1914, in which the German
Pacific squadron, after defeating a
British squadron off the Chilean
coast, was destroyed.
Tho Defense was built in 1907, dis
placement 14,600 tons, and ordinarily
carried 755 men. Her length was 522
feet her beam 74 feet and her maxi
mum draught 28 feet. She was arm
ed with four 9.2-lnch and ten 7.5-inch
guns, sixteen 12 pounders and five tor-
peuo uiDes.
The Black Prince was built in 1904,
displaced 13,500 tons and carried 704
men. She was 480 feet long and 7o
feet beam. Her armament was six 9 2
inch and ton 6-inch guns, twenty 3
pounders and three torpedo tubes.
Tho Warrior, which was disabled,
displaces 13,660 tons and Is 490 feet
long. Her complement is 704. She
carries six 9.2-inch, four 7.5-lnch guns,
twenty-four 3 pounders and. three tor
pedo tubes.
Previous to this battle Great Brit
ain had lost during the course of the
war ten battleships, eleven cruiser
and various smaller craft. Germany
had lost 18 cruisers, 19 auxiliary cruis
ers, chiefly converted passenger lines,
and numerous smaller cruisers.
Since the beginning of the war, Brit
ish cruisers and destroyers have pa
troled during day and night the ap
proaches to the German fleet's base,
in the bay. formed by the mouths of
the Elbe and the Wcser, protected by
the mighty fortifications of Wilhclm
shaven on the south, on the north by
the supposedly impregnable defenses
of the Kiel canal and guarded by the
outlying island of Helgoland.
Until the engagemont that has just
occurred, however, no German fleet
has put forth in force to necessitate
the giving of the alarm to the British
main fleet.
STOCKS DROP ON
NEWSfBffiLE
Wall Street Hears of Great
Loss of British on
Warships.
New York, June 2. Heavy selling
of stocks followed the news of the
British naval disaster, important is
sues declining 1 to 3 points, while
specialities made greater concessions.
On the stock exchange it was rumor
ed that the sinking of the British
ships involved the loss of thousands
of lives, Including many officers
on
HEAVY FIGHTING
ON VERDI LINE
Franco-German Struggle Be
tween Thiaumont Farm and
Vaux Extremely Violent.
FRENCH GAIN4 GROOND
Counter Attacks Inflict Heavy
Losses Upon Masses of
Crown Prince's Forces.
Paris, June 2, 12;10 p. m.- In tho
course of heavy fighting on the Yer-
dun front which continued through
the night the French progressed
slightly south of Caurcttes wood, the
war office statement of today an
nounces. The struggle between
Thiaumont farm and Vaux, east of
the Meuse Is described as extremely
violent
The text of the statement says:
'In the Argonne there has been
fighting with hand grenades in the
Vauquois sector at Courtes Chaussees
and Fille Morte. We caused the ex-
plosion of seeral small mines which
inflicted damage upon the subterran
ean works of the enemy.
"On tho left bank of the Meuse a
counter attack delivered by ' our
troops made it possible for us to pro
gress for 100 yards into the commu
nicating trenches of the enemy south
of the wood of Caurettes. Between
this wood and the village of Cumleres
an enemy attack was checked by our
curtain of fire, and the Germans could
not move out.
Battle of Extreme Violence.
"On the right bank of the river the
battle continued yesterday and last
night with extreme violence along the
entire front between the Thiaumont
farm and Vaux. It even spread to
the east of the Vaux fort as far as
Damloup. In the region of Thiaumont
and Douaumont the assaults of the
enemy were repulsed by our fire and
our counter attacks.
"South of the Douaumont fort the
Germans wero successful in penetrat
ing the southern portion of the Call
lette wood as well - as tho southern
shores of tho Vaux pond. On our
right, all the attacks directed upon
tho sector between Vaux and Dam
loup were broken by the counter re
sistance of our troops, who inflicted
heavy losses upon the enemy.
"In the course of thlB fighting the
artillery fire reached an exceptional
degree of violence and continued
along al tho front attacked,
"Yesterday French air squadrons
engaged in combat the group of avia
tors who came to bombard Bar le
Due and compelled a second group of
enemy machines to disperse.
"A German machine was brought
down near Etain and In the course of
this pursuit a Fokkor machine, at
tacked by two French machines, came
down near Bouconvllle."
Berlin, June 2, via London, 5:38 p.
m. The capture of Qailletto wood,
south of Port Douaumont- on the Ver
dun front and of adjoining trenches,
was announced today by the war of
fice. A counter attack by the French
bouthwest of Vaux wood was a failure,
although made In strong force, the
statement adds.
The catpture of 7G officers, 2,000
men, three guns and more than a
score of machine guns is reported.
"Western, front: After an increase
of artillery fire and preliminary uiino
explosions, strong British forces at
tacked lest night -west and southwest
of Givenchy. Such as had not been
forced to withdraw with heavy losses
by our curtain of fire, were driven
back after hand-to-hand fighting.
"On the west bank of the Meuse
the French repeatedly attacked with
out success.
"On the cast 'bank we stormed
Caillette wood and trenches adjoin
ing. An enemy counter attack this
morning with strong forces southwest
of Vaux wood failed. Up to the pres
ent 76 officers, 2,000 men, three can
non and at least 23 machine guns have
been captured.
"Southwest of Lille a British aero
plane with occupants fell into our
hands undamaged. A French single-'
seat battle'machine was brought
down in an aerial engagement over
Marre ridge. Furthermore, one bi
plane was brought down within our
reach over Vaux and another west of
Moerchinge.
"Eastern front: A successful Ger
man reconnoitering advance on the
front south of Smorgen resulted in
the capture of a few dozen 'prisoners.
Southeast of Lake Drisviaty a Rus
sian aeroplane was destroye'd."
German Raiders Brought Down.
Paris. June 2, 12:15 p. m. A squad
ron of French aeroplanes, pursuing a
group of German machines which had
just bombarded Bar le Due, brought
down two machines, one of which
was a Fokker.
Tho raid referred to probably Is tho
one mentioned in last night's French
official statement, which said that IS
civilians in Bar le Due were killed by
German bombs The French state
ment recorded the bringing down of
only one German aeroplane.
Kaiser Touring Front.
Berlin, June 2, via London, 3:45 p.
m. Emperor William is on a tour of
the eastern front, it was officially an
nounced today. The statement says:
"The emperor has left the army
group, of Field Marshal von 'HInden-""
burg in order to visit other army
groups on tho eastern front. He ar
rived on May 31 at the army group of
Prince Leopold of Bavaria."
NAVAL GRADUATES
ARE WELCOMED
Secretary Daniels Addresses
Class and Advises Them to
Continue Training and
Studies.
i
Annapolis, Md , June 2. Secretary
Daniels today welcomed the graduat
ing class at the naval academy into
actual naval service with an address
counselling a steady continuance on
their part of the training and studies
begun at Annapolis in order that the
navy, dependent upon their knowledge
for efficient expansion and keeping,
might remain equipped and prepared
always for any emergency. The sec
retary told the graduates they wero
coming into the navy at the period
of its largest expansion, its highest
efficiency and when lessons from Eu
rope point directly to the need of
trained men in war if human life is to
be spared from the killing of men un
prepared and unskilled in the science
of militarism.
"We have learned as never before
during the present world war," the
secretary said, "that courage on tho
field of battle is the commonest, as
well as the most glorious, attribute
of our humanity, but, the man who,
in patriotic outbursts, hurries to vol
unteer on land or sea often fails to
appreciate the fact that his service
lacks the highest value unless ho is
trained in arms. The pathos of hu
man lives sacrificed in war because
of unreadiness is the saddest lesson
taught by the European war. It Ib a
lesson which has served to a-waken
America to the need of training
men."
Skilled Men Needed.
The training that produces skillful
and efficient seamen, the secretary'
said, should be encouraged among
naval officers after they are graduat
ed if the navy, is to profit by their
service.
"Another lesson of the war and one
needed in America," he continued, "is
that industrial preparedness must go
hand in hand with building battle
cruisers and other naval craft and se
curing moro trained officers and
men."
Secretary Daniels paid high tribute
to tho naval consulting board which,
he said, already had undertaken the
pioneer work of Industrial prepared
ness In the United States and soon
would provide the army and navy
with this essential feature.
Advises Adherence to Special
Branch.
"I counsel you," he continued,
"early to marry yourself to a special
branch of the service, for nn ounce of
expert knowledge in the days that are I
before you will be worth a pofhnd of
general information."
TWENTY THOUSAND MEXICAN TROOPS I
PREPARING FOR ACTIVE CAMPAIGN I
I
Funston Feels No Uneasiness Over Movements in Chihuahua ; H
Bandits in Territory Extending Over 500 Miles to Be - :H
Vigorously Pursued General Trevino Issues Strict j H
Orders State Department in No Hurry to H
Answer Last Threatening Note From H
Mexico City War Department's ;
Plans Unchanged.
Washington, June 2. Major-General
Funston reported today that about 20,-
000 Carranza troops, mobilized In the,
vicinity of Chihuahua City, were be
ing disposed apparently for an active
campaign against bandits over a ter
ritory extending 500 miles from Made
ira to Ojinaga. He feels no uneasiness
over their movements, Secretary Bak
er said.
General Trevino, commanding the
Chihuahua City forces, has given or
ders that all 'foreigners be treated
with consideration and that any sol
diers guilty of molesting an American,
or other foreigner, shall be summarily
dealt with
Distribution of Carranza Troops.
The distibution of Carranza forces
is given by General Funston as fol
lows: Four thousand infantry at Chihua
hua City: 2.0C0 at Ojinaga. 2,000
south of Chihuahua City. 5,000 in the
vicinity of Madeira, and the remainder
divided into smaller commands being
disposed over the territory described
and'Into the Big Bend country.
Secretary Baker said General Fun
ston had secured reliable information
concerning the Carranza troops and
found no entrenchments or barb wire
entanglements constructed.
War Threat Not Alarming.
1 Washington, Juno 2, A week or
more will be taken by administration
officials to frame a reply to General
Carranza's last note threatening war
If American 'troops are retained in
Mexico, It was said today The usual
cabinet meeting was cancelled, since
President Wilson was not to return
until late today from Annapolis, where
he went to attend commencement ex
ercises at the naval academy.
Army officers today looked for a re
port from General .Pershing on his
conference yesterday at Colonia Dub
Ian with General Gavira, Carranza
military commander in northern Chi
huahua. The war department's plans for
maintaining General Pershing's col
umn in Mexico were unchanged.
Special Trucks for Army.
Columbus, N. M, June 2. The quar
termaster's department here unloaded
today two four-wheel driven motor
trucks of special design for field
work. Each truck is a complete ma
chine shop on wheels, possessing all
the necessary appliances of a modern
machine ship and garage. Some of
the noteworthy features of these ve
hicles are lathes, drills, forges, anvils
and an oxo-acetlyleno welding outfit.
These especially constructed trucks
will play between Palomas and Gen
eral Pershing's advance base, thus
obviating the necessity for broken
down motor trucks to be dragged to
Columbus for repairs.
Efforts are being made to dispatch
a great quantity of reserve suste-.
nance, supplies and forage to the ex
peditionary column before the rainy
season sets in. Big motor supply
tractors with caterpillar wheels are
now being tested out here at the base
to decldo their availability for use
during tho rainy season.
Reports are current here that a
mutiny of Carranza troops at Villa
Aharman, ono hundred miles south of
Juarez took place last evening, during
which looting figures.
Soldiers to Be Retained.
El Paso, Texas, June 2. The report
that soldiers whose three year terms
have expired will be held In the army
indefinitely under the reserve pro
visions of their enlistments was con
firmed today by General George Bell,
at Fort Bliss. Also the practice of
buying out has been limited to ex
ceptional cases.
on-
ANCIENT MASONIC
ORDER TO MEET
Indianapolis, June 2. The forty
fourth annual assembly of the Grand
Imperial council for the United States
of the Order of the Red Cross of Con
stantiue, one of the oldest of the Ma
sonic Orders, is to be held here today.
Prominent Masons from many states
arrived yesterday for the sessions.
A reception was tendered tho vislt-
I ing mombers last night. The assemb
ly closes with tho annual banquet to-
night. 1
FAST MAIL TRAIN I
BLOWNOFF TRACK 1
Combination Baggage and H
Smoking Car and Four Coach- H
es Lifted From Rails. ' H
Bloomlngton, 111., June 2. Twenty- M
six persons were injured when Wa- H
bash night mail train No. 17 bound JM
from Chicago to St. Louis, travelling M
40. miles an hour, waB blown from the M
tracks by a tornado early today near H
Saunemln, III. i
The fact that most of the coaches ' JH
were of steel, is believed to have pre- fl
vented heavy loss of life. Most of the .M
injured are believed to be not in a ! 11
serious condition. j j
The mail car and the combination j 'H
smoker and baggage coach were turn- M
ed over on their sides and practically ! M
demolished. j M
Three of the pullman cars remained H
on the track and some of the pas- H
sengers In them did not know there M
had been a wreck until an hour later. jJ
Bloomlngton, 111., June 2. A tornado H
blew the Wabash-Chicago-St. Louis M
fast mall train, number seventeen, off t H
the track near Sauneman, 111., early j ,H
today, injuring IS persons, ono prob- jH
ably fatally. The accident occurred M
in a deep cut which kept the cars H
from overturning and probably pre- H
vented heavy loss of life. j
The combination baggage and smok- fl
Ing car and four coaches were lifted M
from tho rails. A pullman sleeper H
crashed through the smoking car tear- M
ing It to pieces. It was in the smok- M
Ing car that the most injuries to pas- ; tM
sengers occurred. The other pullman j 'M
remained on the track. One woman i '1
was thrown through a car window, a j .H
distance of twenty feet and received M
no further injuries than a few scratch- j iM
es. A heavy deluge of rain followed jl
the accident. ,H
A special train made up at Decatur M
and carrying doctors and nurses was 'H
rushed to the scene. The injured were M
taken to Forest later.. M
Hundreds of Cattle Drown. H
McGregor, Iowa, June 2. More than -jH
$10,000 worth of stock was lost in a H
storm that reached the proportions of ;H
a cloudburst here last evening. The jH
water flooded pens In the railroad M
yards, drowning hundreds of cattle. 'M
Great damage was done In the busl- H
ness section of the city. Ground floors H
and basements of buildings were jH
flooded. Few business houses escap- H
ed damage. Altogether the storm did
about 50,000 dnmage here. Water H
was up to the tops of the tables in jH
the dining room of the McGregor ho- Cl
tel. B
Bridges Washed Away. 'M
Decorah, Iowa, June 2. About $25,- H
000 damage was done by a severe rain jH
and wind storm here last night. Two 7M
bridges over the upper Iowa river in !M
this city, two bridges near here on the M
Milwaukee line and another on the M
Rock Island, about two miles from jH
here, were washed away. Traffic :H
over these lines probably will not be M
resumed for over a week. M
'1
Many Lose Lives. 'M
Marshalltown, Iowa, June 2. A M
special dispatch to a local newspaper iH
from the scone of the Chicago, Rock . :H
Island and Pacific wreck at Packard, jH
Iowa, states that possibly a score of (
passengers lost their lives when the ;H
passenger train plunged through the H
bridge. It was stated that the toll H
will total at least 15. jl
Million Dollar Damage. jjJ
Dubuque, Iowa, June 2. The Chi- lM
cago. Milwaukee and St. Paul railroad JH
company suffered a million dollars tlM
damage by floods north of here last ilH
night around McGregor, Iowa, Sever- H
al bridge and depots were washed M
away and it will be more than a week M
before trains can be operated. The jH
Burlington also suffered heavily. iM
There was no loss of life at Mc- vM
Gregor. M jH
