Eincolii
& fl J IPH
M B tt U M
V.
VOLUME 24
TOLEDO, LINCOLN Co.
OREGON, hKiUA4 JUNE 2d, 1916
NUMBER 15
COUNTY NEWS
News of each Community Gathered each
week by Our Tiustlinp: Associate Editors
NEWPORT
The eighth annual commence-
from the valley without any
trouble..
Memorial services - were ap
propriately observed at Newport
under the direction of the G.A.R,
ment exercises of the Newport !and Phil Sheridan Women's Re-
High School closed Friday even
Ing, May 26th. The stage was
appropriately and beautifully
decorated for the occasion. Five
graduated four young men and
one young lady. The following
program was rendered:
Processional, Miss Harkle-
Days You'll Never Forget
i lief Corps. The memorial ser
mon was preached Sunday
morning at the .Presbyterian
church by Dr. Pratt pastor, to a
crowded house. The sermon
was elequent and impressive.
Tuesday, Memorial day, the
church was again occupied to
road; Invocation, Rev. E. T. ;hear the Memorial exercises.-
Simpson; Waltz and chorous ! Song and flag drill by thirteen
from Faust; Chorous from flf- little girls. Solo by Miss Hark
teen singers. leroad assisted by the choir.
Salutatory, Frank Sheffield; , Tenting on the Old Camp
Barcarolle Offenbach.girl chor- Ground. Song Red White and
ous; "arranged reading", Miriam Blue by the children. Oration,
Seley; speech, Lloyd Hackett; Hon. R. A. Bensell. This address
May dance, Lacombe chorous; j'as historical and patriotic, Mr.
valedictory, Edwaid E. Bentley; Bensell being familar with the
One Fine Day Madame Butter-' causes that led up to the great
fly. Mi33 Harkleroad. ' Address, Civil War. It was listened to
11. D. Sheldon Dean of Education with marked attention. The
at the University of Oregon. Pre- speaker believed in preparedness
sentat lea of dinlomas. Elmer and said. "I do not think much of
Patrick, a member of the School the mother who Isnot willing for
Board. Benediction, Rev. E. T. her son to enlist in the defense
Simpson. Class color3, green -of his country's flag." After the
and white; -class flower, white dose of the services at the
carnation. church a procession was formed
In personality and clear enun- and marched to the cemetery
elation, each performer showed where the beautiful ceremony of
rarfifnl tmlnine- nnd .nonnltr.l decorating the soldier's graves
hpmapivpo with frpfi!t Tho -.ri-.took place. This is also a time
dress of Dr. Sheldon ' RnarkloH when the graves of departed
nun nmrtirai truth and if ro- friends who sleep in the silent
membered by the class will exert city are decorated. This service
a lasting influx linnn thir completed the people repaired to
future actions He emphasized the basement of the Presbyter- i
work hard work as the great- ,an church where a bountiful
est means to success. v He said luui;" eiveu. m me uner
the taxpayers in the couimun- noon at three o'clock a flower
Hy had done much to make it service was held on the bay
possible for you to get an edu- beach In memory of the departed
cation and the community ex- heroes of the navy who sleep in
pects rou to return thl3 by be- nameless graves at the bottem of
coming good and useful citizens. the Bea- . The afternoon was
Il nlsn nrewl thorn to hn natri- clear and beautiful and the
otic and always ready to defend beach was covered with people.
the Country's flag and the Na- U1,e UCIIUUIU1 ueviee, a miw
tion's honor if in danger. It took 8klfr decorated with the stare
a long and bloody war to gain and Stripes and filled with
cur liberties and establish this flowers, was launched Just as
nation and it took also a great the Relief Corps was casting
civil war to preserve it. He ad- flowers into the waters of the
mnninhpH h rinsa tn ho nhio tn bay in memory of the dead
: vouIl hwp- n
I WERE. THE- fOU.PW. yooiUMLi-e
Wl&u-mngs, Joshua lUbiuu)
'mzza -i vsmmm,, m
Q iflr8t of the week on business, depart for Portland Saturday
I he was accompanied on his re- where they will take in the Rose
I turn by John Hanlon who is do- Carnival.
ing team work on the Yaqulna- Doo. Burgess attended the
Toledo road. : dance Saturday nieht.
Fred Commons and W. C. Mrs. T. Huntsucker i ifnenrl.
Webber of Ona went to New- lng a two week visit with her
port Monday. motner.
John coovert made nis reg- Clifford Phelns of Ona wan in
ular weekly trip in from Beaver this Vicinity Saturday.
ureeK Tuesday. i Mr. ueo. Lewis and son, Lloyd
-o made a trip to Toledo Tuesday.
Dick Huntsucker went to
i oieoo Tuesday.
-o-
ONA
"TVtE DAV
S NEVT To THE tki
IOSE PRESEKiT AT THE!
PINKER..
j MULTNOMAH COUNTY
Fred Commons made a trip ! FALLS IN LINE
fitetahelS' who has18 fal1 the cou"ty court of
beellltSlnSgh Tchoolt nnJ!?nJS
Woodland. Washington the past coUntv Into Vwn ,iu,fw0Ta
nSeTaCdr11"6' t0 hW-Woitffit SuS
John Coovert made a trip to 'co"1(lbe obtal by this means
YaJquhlLCS?a;:iade xdpabyfre3r value 'or the
A. II. Phelps and son, Clifford, . Aa th(? ronntv rnri t,, u
jmmeyed to Poole Slough Tues- qu XcS fo? S
The dance given at the Grange JJta?1 .nhatd0SLbe,wlai
Hall Saturday night was a sue- fhra;lfS!n1omihhan
n g l" . .adopted by our court.
' The following is an extract
taken rrom an article in yester
PEAK day's Oregonlan :
"Originally there were 14 dis-
TJ0fr.,n .mi t n r? tricts in Multnomah Countv. but
II uomiaoLci uwu iuidi , "
Paine and family of Harlan. Mr. were cut down to two,
and Mrs. J. C. O'Neil and fam- district No 1, comprising all ex
.'ily of Big Elk, Mrs. F. B. Shaw cent a 8ma Portion in the south
and family of Big Elk and Mr. west part of the county, because
'Albert Saxon of Big Elk. all of lhe law providing that road
; spent the last Sunday visiting taxes must be spent in the dls
.with Mr. and Mrs. G. 0. Adams ,tr ft from which eo ected.
land famllv of Ble Elk. . The original 14 districts were
. ohnnrvnJ 4 n A I -.1., I . J
Mr. Adams in addition to hav- -s--u w uiymiuiiB, eacu in
tn ,h h niim. tho mnat "ttrRe oi a supeniuenaent.
! powerful, as well as' economical Roadmaster Yeon'g plan Is to
gasoline stump puller In tiie consolidate these divisions."
.county, nas a iou.uu oiuiuuia
Phonograph and about $200.00
,of records, ranging from sacred
songs and music to high opera.
vallis this week.
POOLE SLOUCH
solve the great social and econ-, heroes who perished on the j A. Peterson and G. E. Lewis
omic aueatiosns that are cominz The httle boat drifted ; attended the election at Ona Fri-
up every day such as taxation, gracerully over the bar and then day.
road building, the' primary law, fiank under a big wave. The Mrs. H. G. Rhodes and daugh
etc. Dr. Sheldon's address made exercises closed by singing the ters and Do:ina and Junnle Mar
a lastine imnression not onlv Star Spangled Banner, the big tin spent Sunday at the Peterson
iinnn tho rlann hut tinon thn audience all Joining in. It was ranch. Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Barke:
large audience that was present the most successful Memorial j Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Barker and daughters Hazel and Lola,'
as well. The Auditorium will service held at Newport for a and daughters Hazel and Lolo visited Mr. and Mrs. G. E. Lewis ,
eeat about 250 persons and every lonK time. of Poole Slough were guests at and mother of Upper Bea'
ELK CITY 10; TOLEDO 8
Owing to the wet grounds the
intersperced with a variety of ball game here Sunday was not
talks and monologues. up iu mu usuui sianuaru, suinne
" j Mr. Adams' ranch is getting score was close and the game
to be headquarters for impromp- proved interesting. The Toledo
tu parties and gatherings, boys pulled of one triple play,
everyone, friend or foe, is sure which is an unusual happening,
!to have a welcome and enjoy even amoung the professionals.
themselves. i The final score stood Elk City 10,
m -1 .1 o t i ii . r-.li- in
o iiiufuu o. uauenes: UiiK uuy,
Gillesile and Gillespie. Toledo,
BAY VIEW
1
Lutey,
up, it was a beautiful, happy
scene, long to be remembered.
,eat was taken. Mr. Patrick In
presenting tne diplomas made
some very felicitous and approp-1
riate remarks to the class. Two ' .
little girls deUvered the boquetsj . ... . . . . . .
of flowers to the membere or the ? " " " -
class which almost covered them ar an f1 jery one
uii uik cjio. auu lis uiuuiaiies
should attend and bring some
thing from thp. ranrh.
The Annual Rhododendron; There is no better soil on
excursion train came over. Sat- earth than here; then why not
urday, arriving at Newport a lit- jet it be known to others by
tie after ten o'clock a.m. with showing up at the fair this fall.
200 O. A. C. students aboard. It ; Mr. and Mrs. Mathews of Llt
was a little misty in the morn- 'tle Elk were visiting friends here
lng but It soon cleared away, the the week end.
sun came out and shone brightly i, Mrs. M. W. Randell and
the wind ceased to blow and the 'daughter" Hariett are visiting
day was IdeaL Everyone hiked friends and relatives here,
to the beach, picking up agates ; u0D Murphy of Murphy's seed
or sporting in the surf the Nat- Bt0re at Albany was visiting J. L.
atorium was opened up for the- Fisher and angling for trout the
first time Saturday. A number fore part of tne weeki
of the students took a plunge in Roy Kullander took the train
this delicious fountain. It is a f0r Washington Monday we
fine as well as a healthy sport, didn't learn which Washington,
Nearly every student gathered a probably D. C.
boquet of Rhododendrons and . pat Hodges toks rather wor
took them home. This is very now days, little troubles we
' destructive to these beautiful are t0ld.
flowers as it breaks up and des-, , The road crew has the right
troys the bushe3. And we don't 0f-way cleared to the top of the
know how it is to be prevented, hm on mih Creek road.'
These beautiful flowers are a Deu n0dKes sold his martin
great attraction at Newport at trap t0 a iad by the name of
this season of the year and some nriggs at Harlan we are In
thlng ought to be done to pre- fonned. Here's a tip Mr. Brings,
serve them from being destroyed tne 8eaS0n don't open till Nov."
by the public. It is up to the 7 0f COUrse according to the
City Council to devise some way kjnd of anniai8 you . wish ' to
to prevent this destroying of the catchi
bushes. o
, The excursion on Sunday was
also small. This is due, no doubt UPPER BEAVER
to the late, cold spring weather. , , , ... , , ,
Newport will always keep her ' MIh. Ccles to Mar tin visited
, lace as the most beautiful sea-.Mrs 1 Vancll Thiirsday
ilde resort on tho Oregon, coast. ' Teter Peterson and K. I) Mar
The day was calm and bright n made a trip to Poole Slough
and those that came over had a Friday.
rood time. The season proper Miss CelcBte Martin who has
doesn't open until after the 4th viBlted here for the past nine
of July. The roads are being months departed Friday for Cor
put in good condition and autos ( vallis where she will visit her
and wagons can come over them brother Henry and family.
I.
0 I the G. E. Lewis home Sunday. . . Sunday,
........ Llo d and jonnnie Em. Willard Huntsucker made a home of Mr. and Mrs. Geo
SALADO er8n of Oysterville spent Sun- trip to Yaquina Wednesday. Stevens Saturday evening to
' dftV linrt Mnnrinv at tho Polovonn ! Edeaj" Hall workpd FVIdav and nololiroti Mro Ctavon'a fnrfloth
home. 'Saturday at the Brown ranch, birthday. About forty people
Peter Peterson spent Monday 1 Miss Inez Weaver visited Miss were present and spent a most
at Oysterville. , Blanch Colver of Mill Four Sun- enjoyable evening. Everyone
Misces Aletha and Alpha day. ' wishes her many happy returns
Rhodes visited Mrs. J. M. Bow-' Mr. Cralne and pardner were of the day.
ere Monday. through here buying cattle Mr. Oakland had the mlsfor
McMillan, Davis and
1 m 1 T1 nil
ii'ianK. i ne h.ik uiiy uuncn nas
blossomed out in splc and span,
Quite a crowd gathered at the ;new uniforms. ;
.0 2
MASTER OF BANDON HAS
RIBS BROKEN IN WHARF
COLLAPSE.
Marshfleld, Or., May 28.
Captain Chailes gchillinsky, of
the steamer Bnndon, suffered
turn hrnkon rlha whan (ha whorl
Mrs. A. Peterson and daugh- They had quite a time when they tune to loose one of his finest nt nnrt nrfnrii rniianooii vi.
ters Hester and Josephine vis- put 19 head of cattle on a scoy milk cows Tuesday, she fell into day afternoon aB the steamer
ited Mrs. Dora Huntsucker of to ferry them to Toledo. All of a ditch and broke her neck. Icame alongside. He was the
Oysterville Tuesday. them Jumped off Into the water . Geo. Colvin and family spent most seriously injured man of
Perry Vancil nnd Peter Peter- except one which was tied on. a few days at the Geo. Stevens the five victims, none having
son were Yaquina and Oyster-1 Mr. and Mrs. Edgar and sons, home this week. bcen fatally hurt as at first re
sile callers Tuesday, and Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Bark- Mrs. H. J. Simmonson, An- 1 ported. '
Evalina and Hester Peterson er were Toledo visitors Wednes- drew, Emma and Llllie, Mr. Herb I After receiving niodical treat
visited Alettta and Alpha Rhodes day. Twombly and Percy, Horace, 'ment, the'Captain was pble to
Wednesday. - Chas. Brown went to Eddy-; Ruth and Ruby Prescott, and proceede with his craft en route
II. O. Weaver made a trip to ville Monday returning the same "Mr. and Mrs. Frank Huntsueker to San Francisco and Southern
Yaquina Wednesday. ' day. jnado a trip up the river Sunday. ! California ports.
-o ! Now what do you know about' Mr. Barnes took the party up In ! The accident is reported to be
ed hymn books for. his launch. A very enjoyable due to the unttllnir of the wharf.
RIVERSIDE V the sunday school six weeks ago day was spent. ! a portion about ao to 1C0 feet
and they have laid in the express Mr. and Mrs. Luethold arc re- having gone down. The men
office a month before the com-. Jolcing over the arrival of a were injured by being swept into
oarciens are at a standstill pany Bent us notice they were, brand new baby daughter, the sea by a large pile of ties
and apparently will stay that there but eucbs we will get Mother and child are doing well.
whlr.h wirn Intonrtnd na n rnrvn
sa WC er g mu,s" them Bometime and as the say- Mrs. Fanny McKenny and for the Bandon.
ually cold for this time of the jng goe8, "better late than children passed through Hay I The steam Bchoonere Phoenix
year,
Mr. Lapman returned the
first of the week and is very busy
building a new house on his
place here.'
Mrs. M. W. Randall arrived on
the Monday night train. She ex-
never."
WEST YAQUINA
.View Tuesday on tneir way to and Brooklyn were oalU'd In
V.isit relatives at Beaver Creek. jafter the accident, and loaded
j 0 I ))ortlons of the tie consignment,
j taking all they could carry and
OYSTERVILLE .cleaning off tho congested
Miss Neta Phelps who for the
pects to make an lndefinate day' ;.c Cen a Btudent at , I guess we will have some sun-
niehBeroftater Mr9, imMt Uatt t ever
Hodges of baludo. Washlnirion imssed thru here !11'19 raining.
Mr. Sydney Smith, a nephew SfSeSSn her way to- The dance In the Cannery
of W. I. Daniels, made a short L . a s, wac- Saturday night was well attend-
"cleaning off tho
. i wharf. Oregonlan.
Q
Mrs. O. R. Schenck Is enter
taining the ladles' whist club
this afternoon.
For Saturday only, fancy large
Music was furnished by the Navel Oranges, 25 cents a dozen
visit with relatives here recently. l " h r nr.
Ills home is in Texas but for the 'tXrd7honZ hcr at Van ulna. Newport orchestra. A large at Fredericks Quality Store.
jinni live yum s HO JIOH W(;e-I , MOOM nm tour1miioa fkrar CI
FOR SALE
A good second hand
' , t i . -n. r.rnu.'il nnnio frnm Nflwnort and .
holding down a government po- Yanuhm: EveronV re .oris a I
Dil Inll In hA lh n.n lalnn.a " . , , -
" .alul,u. ,,! trU in Vnwnnpt 101 V EOOU 111110. . .
There was much dlnlne and "",-c "i-" " , i a guou secunu nanu auio-
mem making during his vfs It ,Sunday- , Kreat, nJa"y ir?nM fiobllo for sale cheap if taken at
A large crowd attendlne the ! Mrs Frank Oaten and crildrcn ,ity attended the picnic at Poole nce tem9 ca8hi complot0 aet of
farewell dinner given In his hon- of Newport who have been siourq ounuajr. , tools, two extra casings.
or at his uncles home on the guests at the W. C. Webber home Mrs. Geo. King made a trip to pjVe passenger car, 35 horse-
27th. at Beaver Creek, returned to.' Newport Tuesday, returning power, and in perfect condition,
Mr J T Calklnn and nnn Grr- meir nome mommy. weuiieouojr. mr uriuer luiuriuuuuii ttpyiy
iiii.u. 1 1 vaiiuns auu buii uci i ,
aid made a business trip to Cor-J ' D. C. Miller went to Ona the
Mrs. John Sugg and son will this office.
