S "Give Sorrow words; the grief that does not speak whispers the o'er fraught heart and bids it break." -Macbeth.
SILVER-New York, 63 7-8ths; San Francisco-64 7-8ths Cents
THE WEATHER
Fair Tonight ana Saturday.
Tonopah Dai
Y
Bonanza,
METAL QUOTATIONS
Silver
Copper ..... iV
Lead ..... .....:. $7.30
Quicksilver
170490
VOL, XV -NO. 342
TONOPAH, NEVADA, FRIDAY EVENING, JUNE 2, 1926
PRICE 10 CENTS
7)n AT
AN Ml -NIGHT
All i7MF
S E r: : B B B B B B B
BATTLE ENDS IN PAVOK Of -THE OERRlANS
0
0
El
El
ENGLISH ADMI RALTY ADMITS MAIN FEATURES OF REPORT
MAY BE DECISIVE
STROKE OETHE WAR
Men and Metal Directed Against
the Main Defences Protect-
WALL SIET
II
GROWS PANICKY
ing Verdun
(By Associated Pren.)
J'ARIS, June 2. With a tremendous power of meif and nn tiil tin?
(liTiiiiiiis have been delivering what limy prove to lie their decisive
stroke naiiDst the main defenses of Verdun. In violent fighting Inst
night the French progressed slightly south of Caurette's wood. The
struggle between Thialiinont Turin un'd Vulix, where the (lerinaus are
attacking is described as extremely violent.
IRISH QUESTIONS
HEAR SOLUTION
PROPOSE TO SET UP AN IRISH
PARLIAMENT AND EXCLUDE
ULSTER
4 By AaHoelatr l"rrii.
LONDON, June 2. The Evening
Standard says the basis ot an agree
ment has been reamed for a settle
ment of the Irish question. It Is pro
poned that an Jrish parliament be set
up Immediately,. Ulster being exclud
ed. The parliament will be made up
or (he present Irish representatives
lu the Ilrltish parliament.
FOR
BURNING FLAG
ANARCHIST PASTOR OF REVOLU
TIONARY CHURCH GIVEN LES
SON IN PATRIOTISM
(By -ftolHtrlt I'rroii.)
NEW YORK, June 2. Bouck White,
pastor of the church of social revolu
tion, who participated last night In
burning the- American Hag and other
national emblems in the rear of his
church, was found guilty today of
desecrating the flag and sentenced to
thirty days and fined $1,000. The
offense of which he was convicted was
desecration of the American flag In
circulars Issued weeks ago.
CRICAGO COLISEUM READY FOR
THE REPUBLICAN CONVENTION
By AHoHate4t lrenn.)
CHICAGO, June 2 The Chicago
Coliseum, wh.ere the Kepublicaii na
tional convention of 1916 will be held
beginning June 7, has a history rich
In : political Interest. More national
political conventions have been held
in It than in any other building in the
United States.
Three Republican national conven
y tlons have been held within its walls
nd It was there also that the progres
"ve party. In 1H12, held its firBt na
tional convention and nominated Col.
Theodore Roosevelt for president. The
Republican nominated their presiden
tial tlMtet In the mirage Coliseum in
1V190 and 1912. '
The building was designed as a mo
del convention hall hut later adapted
to broader uses, u wa built by Chas
liumner and several business as
"'elates on I he site of the old Llbhv
Prison War Museum, at Wahash ave
nie and Fifteenth street, less than a
mile from ,e n0Pl an, retai op-
Ping district.
The castellated walls of the old war
prison were used for the Wabash ave-!
nue aide of the structure. It was built
' "tone, brick, steel and glass and was
finished In 1910. The building Is 403
'eet long, 170 feet wide and 110 feet
"iKh and c t nearly $1,000,000. , It
has a wide balcony extending around
"ire of tlie walls and Is well lighted
nd ventilated.
For thla year's convention two addi
tional balconies ,wlth seats for 732
persons have been built between the
main Jloor and the regular balcony
SHARP DECLINE IN LEADING IS
SUES FOLLOWS FIRST NEWS
OF BATTLE
iHy Amorlalrd Preu.t
NKW YORK, June 2. Heavy selling
of stocks followed news of the British
naval disaster. Important issues . da
dining one to three points. It was
rumored on the slock exchange that
the sinking of the rirllish shipB in
volved the loss of thousands of lives.
PRESIDENT DROPS
IN AT mm
INFORMS THE GRADUATES TO
TAKE CARE OF THEIR GRAVE
RESPONSIBILITIES
ANNAPOLIS, June 2. The presi
dent unexpectedly addressed the naval
academy graduates today, asserting
the great responsibilities resting on
naval officers. Personally he gave 178
graduates diplomas and fhook hands
with the class.
PUMPS IRK WELL
ON GREAT V ESTER
WATER CLEARED OUT TO THE
LEVEL OF THE LOWEST PUMP
THAT WAS DROWNED OUT
The crowds will enter through four
main doors' on ,the Wabash avenue
side. There are 22 exits. There will
be 100 doorkeepers and 100 ushers In
addition to a large special detail of
police to handle the great crowds.
The seating arrangements will follow
the general plan of former conven
tions although several changes have
been made which it lsbelleved will
add to the comfort and convenience of
the delegates and visitors. - " .
The speakers' platform, twenty feet
long and forty feet wide, Is at the
south end of the building. It will pro
vide seals for the officers of the con
vention and members of the Republi
can national committee. Suspended
over the stand In a specially designed
sounding board. It consists of an in
verted concaved pyramid built of wood
with the apex over the head of tbe
presiding officer. It - Is designed to
throw the voice through the hall. Di
rectly In the rear of the speakers stand
is a raised platform with 2,000 seats
for the use of presidential candidates
and other distinguished guests. On
either aide of the speakers platform.
extending tbe entire width of the build
ing la a press section, containing B.r8
seats for working newspaper men.
The officers of the convention are:
Temporary chairman, Senator Warren
(!. Harding, Ohio; temporary secre
tary, l-afayette B. Qleason, New York;
rergeait-at-arnia, William F. Stone,
Maryland; chlu clerk. Edmund J
Wachter. Maryland; official stenogra
pher, George L. Hart. Virginia; chief
rlanaon, Mary
The Great .Western pumps have
been working only three days but in
that time they have accomplished far
more than the management had any,
reason to expect. Last night the water
level had been lowered tothe top of
the submerged pump which was put
out of commission at a time when the
electric current was shut off and sim
ultaneous with the advent of a rush
of water from a series of stringers
exposed in the crosscut. That the four
pumps are equal to the task of de
watering the mine has teen demon
strated since the auxiliaries Installed
a week ago have proven their effective
ness In a in 08 1 satisfactory way. It
will take a few days to dry out the
old pump and then there will be no
trouble In holding the flow in check
so as to resume lateral work.
T
QKEATEST 0CEKN ENGMEIW
IN HISTORY Of THE 'WOKLiD
Thousands of Men go down to Death Whett the North
Sea Swallows the Shot-ridden Ships-Five British
Destroyers Wiped Out and Six More Missing
(By Associated Press.) 1
BERLIN', June 2. The admiralty 'announced today that the
German high aca fleet oi Wednesday encountered the British fighting
fleet in an engagement that was favorable to the Germans. The
ships battled all night.
The admiralty says the British battleship AVnrspite, the battle
cruiser 0,ueen Alary, the Indefatigable and two armored cruisers were
destroyed. . - v . .
The message also says, a small British cruiser, a number of torpedo
boat destroyers, torpedo boats and submarines were sunk. It is as
serted that a large number of British battleships suffered damage and
that the battleship Marlborough was hit by a torpedo. This was eon
firmed by prisoners rescued. v
Several German ships rescued parts of crews of the British ships
which sunk including two from the Indefatigable, the only survivors
from tfiat ship. - '.
On the German side the small cruiser Wiesbaden was sunk and
the Pommcrn sent to 'the bottom by a torpedo. The fate of the
Kraueidob is unknown. Some torpedo boats did not return. The Ger
man high sea fleet returned to port yesterday.
(By Associated Press.)
LONDON, June 2. The admiralty announced today that a battle
had oeeured in the North Sea between the German and British fleets
in the course of which a number of German warships were stink. Tht
British battle cruisers Queen Mary, Indefatigable and the battle crui
ser Invincible were sunk. The cruisers Defense and Black Prince
were sunk and the cruiser Warrior disabled. The admiralty also an
nounced that two German battle cruisers were sunk and two German
light cruisers disabled and probably sunk.
The British destroyers Tipperary, Turbulent.. Fortune, Sparrow
hawk an'd Ardent were lost and six others are missing.
The battle occurred off Jutland. The admiralty says the Ger
mans avoided the main British forces and returned to port severely
damaged. The admiralty says that no British battleships e or light
cruisers were sunk.
From these advices it appears the greatest naval battle of history
has taken place. Never have two naval forces of such magnitude as
the British and German high sea fleets fought. Apparently the battle
was not fought out to a point that would determine the mastery of the
seas and the losses will not impair the strength of either fleet to a
vital extent.
"The leases must have been extremely heavy. The Indefatigable
probably had more than 900 aboard and the others equally as many.
TKMNS LIFTED OUT TRACK'
DUUPED IN TIE DITCH
AND
IB) Auwlilrd Pr.),
PACKARD, Iowa, June 2. Two women were killed and six
persons injured when a bridge collapsed today under a Rock Island
passenger train. The wreck was due to high water which undermined
the bridge supports. The locomotive, baggage car, smoker and day
coach plunged into the creek. Several are reported missing.
TRAIN BLOWN OFF THE TRACK
iBj- AnNOPlatrd Press.) . ' . :
BLOOM INGTON,, 111., June 2. A tornado blew the Wabash.
Chicago-St. liouis fast mail train from the track near Sangamon.
when eighteen were injured. The baggage, smoker and four coaches
were lifted from the rails. The accident occurred in a deep cut which
prevented the cars from overturning.
CLOUDBURST DROWNS IOWA TOWN -
(Br Associated Preaa.)
' McGregor, iowa, j une 2. Stock worth more than $10,000 was
lost in a storm which reached the proportions of a cloudburst. The
damage was about $50,000 in McGregor. The water waa tip to the
tops of tables in the dining room of the McGregor hotel. Several
other towns reported damage, including $25,000 at Deeorah.
WRIT 0 IIOftf U5
This give, a total seating capacity of doorkeeper. John J.
12 4IHI nf wkl..L a jaa I . .
" " "r" un ,ne Uina; chief uher. Wtu. Nelson l'el
"1" n l.We la the balcoale. oalt ujinoto.
ORDERED 10 ISSUE
COUNTY COMMISSIONERS ORDER
ER TO COMPLY WITH THE
SCHOOL LAW LEVY
This afternoon Attorney William
Konimn was advised that the district
court had ordered a writ of mandate
to issue in the case or the Tonopah
school trustees versus the commis
sioners and officers of Nye county
commanding the latter to comply with
a resolution of the trustees calling for
a levy necnHsary to raise $12,000.
V. A. INUAU-S. sheriff of Kmer
alda county, was a passenger (rum
Iteno en route to Goldfield on train
N. 14 today.
SODAVILLE
BRIGHT
"Sodavllle the beautiful." is the mot
to of Alkins Kroll company, the own
ers of the big tungsten mines near
that point, as well as the old town of
Sodavllle, they having recently pur
chased the same from Boh" Stewart
tnd W. J. Douglas.
Two hundred, twoyearold trees
have been planted along the thorough
fares of the town where the principal
streets are to. be. Electric lights will
shortly be the Illuminating power for
the streets, houses and all plants as
soon as the power plant la installed.
A 200-horsepower engine has arrived
which will generate electricity for the
operation of the loo tuna milling plant
and lighting system. i
Construction work upon the tung
sten reduction plant Is being rushed
through to completion as fast as pos
slble. Three shifts ara working, the
night force operating under a system
of electric lights supplied from a
small plant at the mill alta.
Quite a trmnafurmation haa taken
THE BEAUTIFUL" TO BE
WITH ELECTRIC LIGHTS
place at Sodavllle. The once sleepy,
quiet toywi is now a scene of throngs
of workmen rushing to and fro, ten
horse ore teams continually arriving
and discharging their valuable cargoes
for shipment and local treatment and
catterplllar tractors cnugging around
the town hauling heavy material for
mill operation.
At tne present time the tungsten
ore is treated at two plants. Twenty
five tons per day ta being handled
through the mill at Horris. five miles
east of Liming, as weit as a similar
amount at the I'rless mill at Soda
vllle, the company hnving taken ove
that mill upon a lease until such time
as their new mill will be ready for
operation. When that time arrives
the two present operating plants will
be abandoned.
Following the construction of tbe
mill, the neit new construction will
be the building of a spacious cemenl
: hotel. Moat of tbe old buildings will
be turn down aa4 new an3 anodara
plant will be started very ahortly.
This plant will treat the ore. from tbe
(Continued on Page Four.)
cottages will displace the present liv
ing quarters. Flans for the hotel show
that no bar will be in connection with
the hostelry but instead will be a
spacious room for reading and pool
and such amusements as will be of
recreation for the workmen and guests
of the hotel. A building for the saloon
will he separately maintained.
At the present lime about 100 men
have dally employment under the com
pany Jurisdiction at Sodavllle while
at the mines a force of 1.10 are en
gaged. While all these important develop
ments are going ii, L. H. Spencer audi
t'lms. E. Noble, the latter being the
discoverer of the tungsten of thla sec
tion, have formulated plans for tbe
construction of a tungsten mill near
the limits of the town of Sodavllle. A
mill site haa been located. Mr. Spen
cer returned to Mina yesterday from
an outside trip and haa purchased a
complete milling outfit. Initiatory
work lor Ik staking reedy of lhia
BUTLLEK
THEATRE
Tcr;ic::r
TONOPAH HIQH SCHOOL
SHOW
Given By
"THE SCHOOU MlaTREta"
THE SENIOR CLASS
A Farce-Comedy in Three Act
Lota of Fun. Not a Moving Picture.
Curtain, S p. m.
ADMISSION:
Main Floor, 90c,
Reserved Box Seats, 75,
Galley, 25c. j Children, 25.
TOMORROW
DOUBLE BILL
"THt GIRL AND THE GAME"
Two-Ratl Railroad Drama
And .
"MAN MAKING"
A Lubln BUe-rew Feature
