n ' ini
HJjH GUARANTEES ITS ADVEBTISERSJETWEEN TWELVE AND THIRTEEN HUNDRED CIRGUUT10N EACH AND EVERY WEEK OF THE YEAR I
fiJfiiTG AND BINDING f ss?ltefe' ,FrA, M,m(.
mi" l( 1 ASSkiWmSS' -v js, LEGAL BLANKS T'H
..., lr.nl n Osltlng card to n IK I I Ml WTfWKlf. l ft fe l-'sslH
J$& wcrk at III JJI I HI I LJSSBKSF !2jfe iH 1! Illil The Hun .arr.c ... .lock Ml legal ' (B
S,, that t-rc IW too. "tho- cL 11 II I Iy3?fi33fcl (riOxl) I II I II blank, common!. In i-c, deed, mart- sH
SH 'Vi.Vd.nnd Z like" tSItfSS-. TJTAflJ JlLlll JII III, gage. imMlon notice. leases, con- , jH
Clbf - f. Khcep tags ami every- ,-,... . w r- r-r- i r-. iT. plctc stoik In Kastrni flail Order 3H
g , mcia wd '' l-'IcM. POLITICALLY, REPUBL CAN. Hlle.1 nml mailed tli. day received. H
ntn Ult.r I rlntlng I done The Sun Kntered , .Vi nml-ci,. t ,.... t Kct The Hun fill Jour legal blank or- ,H
1 do It VnitTML'o v.,T.. - ' Uf,e 4 ,918' nt ,h0 I'tofflMl'rKc. t'tnh. I'ndcr the Act of March J, 1S7. dcrn. When netter printing and bind- ilH
-- "'''Mbl:NU.MHhlM EVERY FRIDAY " Jl'NE 2, 1916 "" " t'"'" T"c Hu" """lo " H
IP AND LIBS
TAKEJG SLIDE
riuti ww ,m wi:i:k ox
kv.s nrv .Mniurrs.
01 "" ''-" " '" tVlll
luthrr Tumi I'n'VlniK. Vk, While
Btrlicr (.rno Took (In full
srmtlli nml Hclnlil It llimiiKliout.
-, Fun Hit nl Hirvhc
KANSAS tiTV Mn., Mil) !. rn
r the IniprcM of 14,000 enttle here
,j II COJ in Chlingo, buyer today
ivrnptf'1 ti force it reduction hero
-,m the firing clone- of the market
A rk thirt)-flvn to fifty icnt
tititt for the work. Hut they hnd
j(l) nic-an". closing mile stronger.
Mtt ito pi x era I feature!!, uniting
tvm the mlc heavy leef Mecr nt
III It. frd at Tulla, Tex., In the Pan
tulle country Odd licit d of native
tfiilht lie SO mien from 110.00 to
i is r numerous, nnd native
rwrt HM'ltl Kit below 19.00. IliiUKe
)lbf f rl liirx of iuli pteem here
U 1170 t 110 10, except four earn
i Ihr.j- iti'.l iMiunit dteem nt Vi.it.
,tchr RM''' 4 tiHtk on the full
"tilth f tht ultuatlon Inut week,
, I rtUitud tenia J. atrlctly irlme
ii up t i "5. and mixed wir-
1 110 GO A run of lwentflve
in irrinl in the quarantine dlvl
. inJ i Id iiulikly, nl Kuod prUef,
frli. Inlni difficult, nccouut
imlll fiipph' In that cent Ion re-
ill) HrnlKlit KniM teem from
,.ih Trx.i.i lir.'tiiiht IS. IS, Huuth
'tuilterii (.iked II little, IS. SO. it lid
rtbTu.n fed uteem 8.8t. Okla-
1 m umnt'iu Krnnieni mild up to
I'fl Hi !tirK mid feedem held
tit villi Hie done of hint Week,
,t i(iln tin ro U u feclltiK that u
A u imminent. I'nnture nrc full
llS.t nil. I the demand nhon rlKiix
dnttaMiiK Mont of the ntock
'ri tungc fruin 17. CO to f S.R0, nnd
lkr thin Nttim of all klndH up to
llll, illhmiRli paekerH pick up pme
' illr til the feeder.
Ibtrp ami liiinlin have heen ll
ktf fvra v.itU unil took a ItlK fllde
4r ITi f off tw'euty-flvu to fifty
1U, ind iiIhiiiI peveuty-flve centH
rfirthc week HerelptN Ineliid
1 Ariiona HprliiK lamlw at fll.St,
HI turitt Ine eentM under lop III
lK(o f-,i rprliiK lamlm today, clip
fHlWtirii hern nt J10.D0. Texan
4rrl Mitlnni on Hip revUed nelllnc
mciirliik-nt 17 78 to 17.90, linmher
tU 3,(0 to IS.CS, thenv KhowhiK
rtdfiUni thiiu uithlnK elne In the
"tp hoii'r fat Ktiatu ipiotahle at
Ml M tC 00 IterelpU were ten
Vwuinl lu id, Includlnic nlxteen htm
M Arliniiii hprliiK Iniitlm, two thou
4 Tcxmh inutloiiH, fifteen hundred
l'U tin tlm Imtunee clipped Went
'"V, mii t uprliiKit ami mixed ntuff.
oi.i, mii;i:i fi.ii' r.Niisi
Is UTIM.Ti:i AT SIJtt.oiMl
VKIIXAU May :7. Hheurlmt at the
'vMiiM tint p khearliiK plant which
"win Rdnir on ulnce April 11th.
v" hu -liiil yenterda), Twenty
'nr ; irkliiB day mid nluht
iril k jia .el wilch the
J'lli H intimated at J1&S.OO0.
y WKht t price ever received for
"Jlir n thed thin year hy I'ln
y fuunt - hcepmeu and the total
I ttiv nt to over two hundred
1 JiM d. i!,,r
'"I Hlrliwhitm received the lilith
,'Iu,h,ll Price, recelvlim 5! cent.,
M the I wnt mild for H cent.
ri u iiutwenn 26 unil 87
' Tlie lamliM, thouNiinilH of them
''Wrn nt liuxe heen old for Hewn
;U t ,u .,( delivered till fall, lllno
i .. Jh l l'rl'i 'ver received for
" Ha-in laml.N.
THe reirulnUer or the Itlntuli Himlli
"P. iuinl.1 rlnir 33,000, were nhorn
Aiitmlrion the (Ireen river
I CENERAMIOLIDAY
"r''irli, (l) nU,IK,. oIimtu-iI l
Ciixtlo (Into.
JJrm,ru, ,a. WI1M f,,l)Kj (,i,.
in i , ti (,, A Keneral hull
i lilUn ,,,e workew nnd cr
,. ffc held under tho nuiiplce of
id.. . r ,lll' Hulnt church, the
KmX,Ct "'l'1 1'i'llow and ali the
trvi? ' ''ylhlu". Tho rullKlmi
Miri, ,s r' -uIucteil by HUhop
rd i ,,-,us- Ule' Huff unil How
:""lnHorfi:mtd nt the Odd 1V.
ui.i "rn,1("ile nnd Dr. K. M. Nelier
i I ,- v, j nown8 wero
KuA. ' ,'1" ceremnnle of the
A?, ' f 'l.
,J,r "e exercise, which Included
iri Ly ,l10 ,,nn'l nJ choir, u
nrv , Wft" f,,rneil In which nearly
rid. on '" ,,,w" l"ok l,nrt- Th"
"rthia, l,r,"'l, nt h0 KnlBhtii of
JWeh . h" nl 9 o'clock und lino of
?r. ,,own lno canyon to Wll
njl" 0,m then up to tho ceme
yrch ' ' ;o 8 mlnp- The return
lai .i fl"lcd nt the Martin
l about 12 ts o'clock.
irr, , 'a,uro of the parade wu tho
h'm n"ul of cilr. " eac uf
Med mu APrlcan flK wa pro-
Urn,?"? Kuarantecs It ndvertUers
-tei , ! " ot btwen twelve and
Utlnn ""ndrea cople weekly Clr
on lloK open to nil.
OPEN YOon EYES, UNCLE.
CUT! I'f smty. ' s '&&&& i
GHEnRY AND WOODS THE NOMINEES
FOR DISTRICT JUDGE AND ATTORNEY
Til rrpllldhHll i-OHlrtllloU fur the
Ketehlh iuilhhil dlttikt, mtuprWnK
Han Juan. (Irtnl. Kinery, HwmihMc hih!
I'arlHiu Miuntl. wax held In l'rke
laH HutiinUy at the eiHtnty nturt
Iioiim'. Janie V. Cherry if Ml. rienn
nut Ih-Iiik iH'inliwleil for JinlKf and
I'rederlck I!. VMlii of I'rlee for ill
trlel Httormy. The were nomlnaled
without opHHllln.
The convention w chameterlerd
l.y the illMwlih with which It Iran
ucteil It lainlim. It ttM.k only almut
twenty niluiile In hII to eWet chair
man and wnretar) awl to make the
nomination. Another feature wa the
ipilet hut undoubted cNthulMii dl
pla)id and the confidence tlwt w
felt tllttt Ihr two nominee would be
the choloe of the witer Ml the coiiiIiik
full eld 11.01.
The iwrlblpatloii Hi tti loiuin.
lion delll rwllon of U-l 1-iriMii,
of Mitntl. one of the leaib r of tip
,lMs (III IIHV
riT.n.r,',.i,cV.,f!!r
the proitni.U. om'Hii"" ' ":"""
courw It -lKnlflnl. '''l'V.',n
II.,.,.. ,seutle iHimiiiltle '"r
SrSJSmhTSiiri-i -WW- ta
Kir- inex Juhnwn h ''n op-
no'gonil '''n;,rr",,r;j .n'n "III no
r,'" .""n'i the poa'ltlo. with credit
doubt fill I"' ,''"!. of co'ton the
and Blvo the .wple or imU
louilillltee fonprle the count)
ehalrnien In all tho cotintle of the
lltrlcl. They are Prcderlck JorKvn
en of SNiiixte, II. II. KlrkiMtrlek of
CMrbon. H. 1. Know. Kr.. of Hmery, J.
I'. Miller of (Irand and J. II. Wood
of Hhii Juan.
I'ormur t'oiiKrewiiiMU Jacob John
Mill wh unaulinoiil elM'ted tliulr
man of the contention and Dilworth
Wmillel of ilHIItl. reirelnry. An there
were no c,intiTlH In the matter of
mttlliK the deleKHte the imuitl ere
dvnllal eommlttct wa dlnpeli(Hl
with and 1-ewl lrncn made the
uomliiMtliiK upewh iilaehiK Jamwi W.
Cherry In nomination. Curl II. Mar
chm' n, U A. Mrdee and Henry
Tlioinwin Hpoke In puppoil of the
noiuliwtlon and the taut named
motet! that the Humiliation be made
hi nt'ilainullon, Thin wa done a
wan tiNo that of I'rederlik H. WootU
'of 1'ntc for dlMrlit nttornc), who
I III III ItKlv I. WOO I IS
jn t'4ftil III nomllialloii by I, A
M(lu (llllxrt Woolby anil H, I
Hiiow pokc In favor of Attorney
U'oiitl and Althur J lee made thu
motion that the nomination be made
by acclamation i
Whin tho matter of an executlte(
committee for the dlmrlot wu nettled
peeehe v. ere made by the nominee
tliHUklnK the convention for the hon
or conferred on them.
All the eountle of the dUtrlut were
represented In the convention Han
Juan and Ornml by proxle and the
other by direct deleKate.
one tin nil red and fifty deleKate to
the llocky Mountain Coal illnlnu In
.tltute. which open In Suit Iike City
June Ulh, will leaVH Denver Juno
14th over the Denver urtd Itlo Qrande.
The truln. aevtirdlnK tp Information,
will vllt the coal canip of Curbou
county und Convoy delegate of this
region to th Institute A feature of'
the run from Denver to Halt 1-ako
CltV will be ld-trlp to Hiawatha
nod Htundardvllle A dunce U planned
for the delegate at Castle Qate I
MAiATESJEEK MINES
ljitciii ('mil .Men IiihtI Ciirlin unil
Cincry I'roiM'itlt'.
Hantrrn fuel men nre InnpettliiK the
mine of a number of compunle In
Kimry and Carbon eountlo with n
view of purchupliiK properlle which
In the control of firm now opcrntliiK
In Halt IJtke City, wiy Moiul' Her-nttl-lleiiubtlciin.
I' C. (late, prol
(lent of the I'lienliontn Coal coinpuny
and the While oak I'ticl company of
llotchklim, W. Vn.. nrrlted at Halt
Uikc lant nlKlit after a three da)'
Innpeitloii of the mine of tint Culled
Htnte I'ut'l company and the Htaud
itnl Coat comiMiuy. He would neither
affirm nor dvii) rt port that the Ka
tern lonl comiKinle which are fluur
Ini; on HhlppliiK coal through the
I'aiinma eiin.il depend upon the up
ply from the Wenlem field to care
for the coiikt eontrnct while the
KaMfrii coal I lined In the flllliik' of
the contract for the lilnli-gruile I .'.in
tern coal.
Gate I accompanied by Mr, (late
and II. II. Moore, chief engineer of
tho Whltu Ouk I'nel compuuy. I'or a
number of week It ha been reported
thnt the l.'unlern cailtullnt have been
figuring on taking over thu control
ling Interent In a number of the
mine In the I'tull coul nectlonn,
MIDLAND M DODGED
iiloiiiobllll it llltertiil II) the
Unil Condition of Itouil,
I V n I leu, ncirctur) of the couimer
till ilib, (Irand Junction, npeukliig
Mondity bifou tho boiird of gover
nor of the Halt Uike Couimerclal
dub at tin lr noonday luncheon, de
il.irtd huntlredn of automobile tour
l:t:i were Ignoring Halt Iuko City und
ullii r I'tull title beentiiio of the ill
iii'ist Impannable condition of tho
.Midland trail. The tourlnt, he tie-
lurid were nearly al howlng it
piefireiut for the Huiita IV trail, und
t .king with Hum thouMnul of dol
lira that otherwlne would be npent by
III: in along the route of the Midland
trull If the) lould negotiate the high
v.. 'iv In tin lr machine.
Anllt In netretur) and Ireanurer of
I tin Midland Trail aoilatloii. He
v.i lit to Halt Uil(o City ixpeeliug to
i inftr with (lov. William Hpry and
.11 H Morgan, Mate road engineer,
lut found both out of the city, lie
iiddreiuied the hoard of governor of
,tho louimenlul club on Invitation of
Betretnry J. David I.nrnon. loiter ho
met nnd conferred with W II. Kill
mm, I'tull vice president of the Mid
land Trail uMoclatlou,
IIAIH.V IICItNCD nv thi:
IIXI'I.OMO.V OP (!.S()I,INH
A the renult of the explonlon of
two gallons of ganollno taut Tuonduy
about mldduy, Mr. A. (1. (luthelt li
nurnlng it badly burned arm. What
uuutiud tho expltmlon cannot be deter
mined. Mr. Outhcll vra cleaning
Homo cloth In n bucket containing
tho guwillno and had her right arm In
It when tho explosion happened. The
flame nliot up und besides burning her
arm he alno Hiutalned a nanty burn
on the right cheek, Had It not hap
pened that li wa wearing a very
lieuvy bath robe nt tho time, made of
matorlal Unit was not Inflammable,
the accident might have had fatal re
sult. Mr. CluUioll wa eating dinner
at the time of tho oxploslon nnd ran
out und extinguished the flames, while
.Mr. Outhell, ("ho was suffering great
agony, was cared for by Mrs. Wllllum
Ilroeker. Tho burned member was
dressed by Dr Howard, who was
j quickly on the scene. It la feared
I that the burn will leave a bad scar
BEET FACTORY NOW I
IS ALMOST ASSURED I
Crowd of Enthusiastic Men Aeet At City Hall , H
and Talk Over the Proposition Only ' '11
a Few More Acres Are Needed. H
About n hundred btiHiiiu.ss nnd profc.i.ilonnl men, with a Might i H
mixture of fiirinurt, met last Monday night at City Hall for the B
ptiriwHO of considoriiiK Hie miar beet nituation and also for the j IH
juirposc of KottiiiK as many as ossible to sIkii the Utah-Idaho I H
StiRar company's contracts to plant to sugar boots a sufficient H
acrcaKe to make up the required number seven thousand thnt H
must be signed up for before the sttKar company will take any H
steps towartls building a sugar factory somewhere either in Car- H
bon or Emery county or the building of it railroad from some point H
on the right of way of the Denver and Ilio Grande railroad to Em- ' H
cry in Emery county. H
It was a great disappointment to many who are moving heaven H
and earth to help bring about the two enterprises that there were jf
not more fanners present. Carl H. Marcuscn went over the sltua- H
lion clearly and in detail and urged immediate action. He told fl
the meeting that Emery county had already signed up for its por- H
lion five thousand acres and hu asked for expressions of opin- r.ifl
ion from those proscnl al Hie meeting. Hu put il squarely up to 'H
the business men to decide whether the building of a railroad nnd ) H
a factory would or would not benefit thu city of Price and Carbon ' ,fJH
county and everyone who talked on the subject seemed perfectly H
alive to thu situation. H
Upon Mnrcuscn's invitation A. J. Lee soku on "Sugar Raising ;, H
nnd Its Effect On Laud Values." As thu speaker had hnd a large ' H
experience in Grand Valley, Colorado, hu was able to give some H
very interesting facts concerning thu sugar industry of that place ; i H
and thu consequent benefits thnt accrued to the farmers there, iH
us well as to the business community. Hu was followed by J. V. ! 4H
Hammond, J. G. Gublcr, George A. Woottou nnd J. II. Mcknight. '1
These men all told of their experiences in localities that had under i i? H
taken the raising of beets and thu consequent farming nnd busi- ' ' H
ness prosperity. McKnight offered a resolution thnt the meeting ,j1 H
go on record its wanting both a railroad and factory. This brought jji H
out more remarks and II. V. Cooper, Uenton Randolph, F. R. Mc- j ' 1; H
Ilhancy and H. S. Roblnctt sjwke in favor of it. The resolution j t H
was unanimously adopted. On the subject of "Sugar Factories Ji H
and New IuduHtrics," J. A. Austin, who is looking after thu Inrge ' H
farm of thu Austin brothers to the southeast of Pricu and who hns j H
been brought up from Iwyhood in tho business, gave some inter- f'l
esting data. Ilishop Albert Rryncr and Robert II. Stewart also ' H
spoke. ijI
The meeting wus aroused to enthusiasm before tho closu nnd n j il
total of two hundred nnd twenty-five acres were contracted. This ' H
with four hundred acres in Wellington and Farnham districts , 1
brings the total up to something over six hundred and twenty-five & iH
acres, leaving thirteen hundred nnd seventy-five acres to bo con- d i-nH
traded before the Utah-Idaho Sugar company will go ahead with u H
negotiations with thu railroad company for the building of n rond. ; r H
Thu first day of June was thu time limit given the people of i v; l H
both counties to contract for the necessary seven thousand acres. , H
Thu sugar company has assurnnces thnt the Denver nnd Rio . ; H
Grande will nt once start tho railroad into Emery county if the . jJH
building of thu factory is an assured fact. Grading would com- V lH
mence in about a month or so and a large force of mcnwould bo '-'il
put to v.orlc, resulting limn enormous increase of business to this li
--"' i i-fi-H
The Hun give below the number of
acre contracted for In the two iiimi
tie, l'lrty-nlx hundred und seventy
eight I the total, which leave thir
teen hundred and twenty-two yet to
bo secured. I'lve more da) of grace
have been allow etl und Mix hundred
acre mtint be lgned up for by Car
Ihui county and Hmery county prom
Uom to mime In with the remaining
amount. M'vcn humlretl and twenty
two aire
Aero.
Winery I0
llotdiMter 100
l'erron V4
Moleu HO
Cluwmui 207 W
(.'untie Dale COIH
Orungevllle IBH4
; Iiwreneit 106 H
Huntington 88
Cleveland 317
Victor 188
i Illnio
Austin :..S05
, Prlio 358 V4
Wellington 865
Spring Qlen 8
Tho Denver and lllo ..lUiide has
nent out circular Mohedule to be filled
In asking for dutu a to the resources,
population, area and other facts con
cerning tho different tuwnu It Is pro
posed to reach by the hew line. Ho
that It looks it h ir tho building of the
road and tho factory are assured, and
It nIiouU not bo n very difficult task
for the two countlea to co that the
remaining 1332 acres uro contracted
ror within tho next five day. The
business men of Trlco are now, or
should be, fully altte to what U going
on and should get out between now
and next Tuesday nnd put their shoul
der to the wheel, It mean u lot to
l'rlcc
h- B
(iltAIUATINO UXIIIUINUS AUK ! -BH
1 1 : i . i at wi.vnm qcahthiih ,,,- nH
WINTKIt QCAHTIJItH. May 87. '- Tfl
Tho eighth grade graduating uxerelse f ' I H
for Winter Quarter. Hcoflold and y , 'iH
Clear Creek were held In the Winter P ! 'Hl
Quarter iiminemeiit hall I'rlduy, ft t aH
May 36th, befure u large audience of ?' , 1SBH
relative and frlemls. The following 1
lirogrum wu rendered. t H
Kong, "Utah Wo !.ovt Thee;" Into- i;..llHiB
eiitlou, HUhop T J. I'u no ley; uddrest TV'vBH
of welcome, I'u u I Horennen; chorus, V ' !t?H
''Ilelgho Happy Uiud," gruduate; .Kl'' ijl
reoltutiou, "Host to Know Nothing At tj!u J Ifll
'All," Mllllccnt Hurvey; recltullon, Pil'BH
"Hchool Da)," Irene Wernx; chorus, it' ? IHI
"Dor I.lndenbuum," Clear Creek ' 'IH
gruduutes, addreMse to graduates by ! BH
l'rof. J, K. Hickman, llrlghum Young I4j, 4
cullege, I.ogan; selection, Winter . ijfi'f' rLifl
Quarter orchestra; vuledlctory, Alice 'v,' j WM
Mudnetii chorus, "A Night In May," li'Hl fl
gruduutes, nwardlng of diplomas, U. j jJ , 9
V. Qoldlns: song. "Htar Hiiansled tail kliH
llanuer," A danco was given after m I fiBH
the program. Tho graduates ares U HH
Wlntcl Quarters Hlchard 8. Dlx- nB jH
on, John Jordlsnn, Valentino AuUcuk, $m fimM
Ilobert W. Ilalue, Geneva Davis, Vlv- ti$ iiJBK
Ian Davis, Mabel M. Klmber, Muriel IV iJ91
M. I teen, Mary Hezyuk, Mllllccnt Hur- tM 'fvHM
vey und J!dnn Htaley. p iSnlB
Clear Creek Paul Horennen, Henry 79 U
Iarsen, Tolvo Ilitkalu, John Koskl, S IukIih
KUIe l.cwU, Dorcas Marx, Ora Oour- sv8ilf9il
din, Annie Marrlanl, Bophlu Jensen IuIumH
and i:ila Ward lnKj)9Bfl
Bcofleld Teddy h Curtis, Ruby wfBsHI
II Hurknes. Allcu i. Madseii and BBlMiW
Ml) I. Wernx. !mHKsB
BcUsors nnd knives sharpened at UhhHhH
Cloodman's repair shop. Advt. WH
