4
nr t
VOL. XLVI
LEXINGTON, LAFAYETTE COUNTY, MISSOURI, FRIDAY, JUNE 2, 1916.
NUMBER 22.
mencer
k
THIRTY-SIXTH ANNUAL COMMENCE
MENT OF WENTWORTH
HIGH SCHOOL
COMENCEMENT
Wenworth Closes Another Successful Session
With Brilliant Exercises. Unusual In
terest Has Marked The Year's Work.
The gala commencement at! petitive drill medal was won by
Wentworth was celebrated from ' Norman Matheson
F. A.
hoefer to i FORTY-SEVENTH COMMENCEMENT OF
LEAVE LEXINGTON i fPYTR A T . f HT IFCT FOR WHTVIFN
Held at Christian Church Tues-lilas Disposed of Interest in
day Night With ApproprK : Commercial Bank. Will Go
Friday, May 26th to Tuesday,
May 30th inclusive, with
usual order of exercises,
eluded were various drills,
the
In-
At eight o'clock Monday even
ing occurred the grand social
affair of the week the recep-
ate Exercises.
The 1915-16 session of the
Lexington Public Schools
brought to a close Tuesday night
with the graduating exercises in
the Christian church. The church
To California.
Frank A. Hoefer, who for the
was i past eight years has held a con
trolling interest in the Commer
cial Bank and directed its busi
ness, has sold his interest to the
was crowded to capacity and other directors and will leave in
re-'tion and final ball. An effort is
I
views and parades, company and i made to make this the most
many were turned away. Wal
ter Williams, Dean of the School
of Journalism,; University of
about a month with his family
The Exercises Commenced On Friday, May 26th,
And Were Concluded On Tuesday, May 30th.
Many Visitors in Attendance.
individual contests, all vastly pleasant event of its kind of the I Missouri, was the speaker of the
interesting to the spectators, lyear. That those responsible j occasion, and, no doubt, to his
The closing of the present ard of excellent preparation. The
school year marks the Forty-'Art display was well attended
seventh Commencement of Cen-jon Saturday. The Expression
tral College. It has been an his- j recital that evening was the
toric one in the history of the feature of the week for those in-
for Santa Barbara, Calif ornia, j school. Educational ideas anditerested in Miss Kull's ability,
where he will engage in banking, 'conditions change with time; 'The Baccalaureate sermon was
Mr. Hoefer leaves Lexington an tne Hoard of Trustees with j addressed to Central College and
onlv because of the splendid op-! President Z. M. Williams, to se-j Wentworth Military Academy.
Two innovations of the week for the evening's success were, presence may be attributed the jportunity presented in Santa ,cure the best interests of the It was given by Rev. Robert
Barbara in his chosen field ofiouee nave aciapteu tnemsei- uooancn or rrancis bi. cnurcn,
were introduced. The first was! well qualified, was attested by 'attendance of so large a crowd.
the Senior play, staged at the the large attendance and brilliant
Grand Opera House on Friday i spectacle in the new gymnasium,
evening by the Seniors with his- j The music was furnished by
trionic aspirations, assisted by apt. Day's orchestra. In the
young ladies of Lexington; the receiving line were Mrs. Sand
second was a swimming meet! ford Sellers, Sr., Mrs. W. M.
and contest Saturday morning. -Hoge, Mrs. W. II. MacKellar,
The latter was held in the town Mrs. R. P. Palmer, Mrs Sand
swimming pool in Goose Pondiford Sellers, Jr., Mrs. R. K.
Park. It consisted of the usual 'Latham, Mrs. F. A Day, Mrs. C.
tests of strength and endurance B. Waddell, Mrs. G. W. Freden
of a swimmer and fancy diving, !dall, Mrs. G. H. Bates, Mrs.
and added another point in the ; Richard Field, Mrs. J. 0 Lesueur,
physical excellence of W. M. A. Mrs. J. G. Crenshaw and Mrs. W.
cadets. The honors of the oc- B. Waddell.
Dean Williams always says some
thing that "sticks," and when
ever he comes to Lexington he
may be sure of a hearty welcome.
B. M. Little, Superintedent of
Schools, presetned the diplomas
to the graduates, and A. W.
endeavor and the further induce
ment of a climate that has no
superior on earth. The Commer
cial bank under Mr. Hoefer's
management has enjoyed a
steady and substantial growth.
His training in banking corn-
Clemens, Principal of the High Ibined with fine business acumen,
School, awarded the honors. j conservative judgment and a
The program was concluded by strong personality, have gain
the singing of America. 'ed for him state-wide reeog-
Class of 1916. nition in banking circles,
Mildred Barron, Olivia Bartels, jmade his success with the Corn-
Catherine Clark, Carrie Glass- jmercial bank very pronounced.
Mr. and Mrs. Hoefer will be
ves to the present conditions by j St. Joseph, Mo., and was a most
placing Central in the Junior dignified and educational effort.
College class. By this they The music for this service was
simply adjust the status of the i given by a College choir under
College in such a manner as to Mr. D. F. Conrad's direction,
come under the present ruling Monday's events were a meet
that all important institutions jng 0f the Girls' Club of Central
should nave an accredited stand- rvlWp and was nttondnH hv
ing as
other.
correlated one with the
town members and out of town
visitors. In the evening the an
nual concert by Senior music
missed from the
A comprehensive examination
and i of the College in every phase of pupils was given with its usual
its work was recently made by; success, before a large and ap-
a committee from the State Uni- preciative audience
versity. These gentlemen made
community, a most favorable report of their
The Commencement gradua
ting exercises were Tuesday
morning. Diplomas were award
ed eighteen young ladies, and
cock, James Gwiner, Roland Hall,
casion went to E. Mclntosch. The graduating exercises were nora norn. p Elizabeth King.
In the evening the band con-held in the new gymnasium also, i Florentine Leweke, Leona Long, Jhey have made many friends investigations, and, with sugges
cert and declamation contest and were most impressive. There ; William Loomis. Louise MacDon-' here who will regret their leav- tions as to minor additions to
-were the features. There were,Were twenty on the class roll,' m Marv Elizabeth McNeel. Eva! ing. but whose well wishes for the library and to the physical certificates of proficiency in the
four participants in the contest ; and the address was delivered by jMesersmith, Mabel Oehlschlae-1 health and continued success will labatories, approved the entrance j Teacher's courses were trfven to
all were good, but Guy Burns Judge Charles Mayer of St. Jos- lger'( Gertrude Owen, Louise Rey- j follow them to their new home, to Central to the present educa- seven. Rev. Isaac D. Borders
was awarded the medal. eph, Mo., a graduate in the class i nolds, Florence Schenck, Carrie! With Mr. Hoefer's retirement tional scheme of the State of addressed the class. Rev. F. M.
Rev. Robert E. Goodrich prov-'of 1894- The address was pro-j Smith, Esther-Stalling, Annie E. M. Taubman re-assumes ac-j Missouri. The work of securing! Burton awarded the medals,
ed an excellent speaker for the gressive and aggressive in j jiary Starke, Thomas Walker, ;tiye management of the bank. ;a $200,000 endowment is still an I Miss Amelia Baskett of this city
Baccalaureate sermon on Sun-!st'le; intelligence and consise-jker, jr Virgie Welch, Ruby The Commercial has long been j important factor in the school's won the scholarship medal; the
day morning. He made a di- ness 01 expression were leatures jW'right. ine oi Lexingtons most f"h vvj " " ouseKeepers medal wont jointly
to Misses Georgia Krowning and
Mary Jones Nixon.
Dr. Williams' announcement
dignity and impressive manner! The awarding of medals was scholarships offered by a score ful consideration of its patron's the usual customs and traditions of next year's faculty included
T im til 1 I i i t a ' i . . liMimrl ivf i I ki n - vw rvn r r r
rect appeal for right living ac-:01 dua&e payers cieiivery, anai in the graduating class, Flor- tnorougniy. suostantiai lnstuu-" -cording
to the truth incarnated he had the very close attention ;entine Leweke was the honor -tjons, and with Mr. Taubman ! cured.
in the God-man Jesus, and with and interest of a large audience. ' craduate. She ha3 the choice of "again at the helm the same care- j During Commencement Week
nreached a sermon to vounsrneo- by Major W. II. MacKellar, and of institutions in the state. Ro
i v -
pie. This service was held joint- he made the occasion one of land Hall was second, and James
ly with Central College for peculiar and gracious propriety. Gwinner third. These three
Women. The musical part of , The diplomas were presented by were closely grouped in stand
the service, under the direction Col. W. M. Hoge, whose dignity ing.
of Mr. D. F. Conrad, organist, on such occasions gave to thej Dora Horn was awarded the
and was sung by seniors and ceremony much impressiveness. j Warrensburg Normal scholar
teachers from Central's vocal The battalion was then marched ' ship.
department. to the parade in front of bar-. In the Central school, eighth
Mnnrinv wn rnmnlptelv filled racks and together with the grade, Margaret Heathman,
... .... & , oti lorrro pnnnnitrca rf nonnlfl f Via TTli-mV
with military events, ine com-,""v
petitive drills took place in the!ceremony of lowering the flag
in the company drills, py e nior ciass was witness-
ed. ine Dana piayea tne btar
; Spangled Banner and the 1915
16 session was history.
The honors of the year were
won by the following: Honor
graduate, Kenneth G. Hoge ; Un-
is assured. jwere observed with some new j very few changes. Ho briefly
features. The Commencement stated the change in plans for
Death of Mrs. James C. Kelly, exercises proper were begun ' the College as given at the be
Mrs. James C. Kelly died Fri- 'with a music recital by Junior ginning of this article and the
day at 2 o'clock at her home pupils on Friday evening, May exercises were closed. The an
1616 South street. She had been 2Cth. Following were events as nual dinner given in honor of the
in a critical condition since Sun-had been announced for some graduating class followed ; at the
day, and her death was due to week's previous in The Intelli- close of which the retirement
old age and general debility. gencer. Every exhibition of from the dining hall of this years
Mr3. Kelly's maiden name was ! work in special departments was !
the Elizabeth Hammer and Thelma Marie Louise Duncan, and was in accord with Central's stand- (Continued on Page 8.)
morning;
the fortunate company was Cap
tained by Wallace Ashurst, son
of R. E. Ashurst, of this city.
Captain Ashurst was awarded
the sword for the best drilled
company. The individual com-
Kissel were given special men- born in Bourbon County, Ken
tion in scholarship. In the Am- tucky, December 16, 1834. She
old school this distinction went was married to Mr. Kelly in
to Fred Estabrook, John Robert Cooper County, April 3, 1851,
Allen, and Paul Larkin. and shortly after their marriage
I they moved to Lexington where
i c..-i, W t o-j they have since resided. Mrs.
j it
4
Burned.
Kelly was a faithful and life
o j u u 11 .oa iv, , Jong member of the Christian
Sunday night about 11:30 the 6
barn of H. Keller, 2101 South
street, was struck by lightning
and burned with all of its con
tents,, including Mr. Keller's five
passenger automobile. A chick
en house was also burned. The
loss is covered by insurance.
- 8
What's The Answer?
To build, or not to build, that's the question.
,And heve's the answer.
If you are in doubt about it, get our estimate on the Lum
ber needed know just what it is going to cost you then you'll
be in better position to say "yes" or "no."
, We have one of the very choicest assortments of high
class buildig material and we are quoting very tempting figures
on bills of all kinds.
Not some other time do it NOW.
Jim West Waived Perliminary.
Wednesday in Justice Wright's
Court, James West who shot
Hillman Rutherford two weeks
ago at McGrew's camp, waived
preliminary examination, and
was bound over to the August
term of Criminal Court. Ruther
ford has almost recovered, and
West is out on $200 bond.
Besides her husband, Mrs.
Kelly is survived by five sons and
three daughters who are as fol
lows : Lon. Len and M. T. of Lex
ington, Hiram, of Bates City;
Aubrey, of Oak Grove; Mrs.
Joseph B. Shelby, Bates City;
Mrs. L. B. Shelby and Mrs. W.
V. Curtis, of Lexington. She is
also survived by thirty-eight
grand-children and thirty-two
great grand-children.
The funeral was held from
the home Sunday afternoon at
3 o'clock, conducted by Rev. R.
W. Wallace of the Christian
Church.
"The Yard that Saves and SatisQe.'
LAMBERT LUMBER COMPANY &
JOHN J. PRICE, Manager. It
to
Joe Wiley went to Kansas City
dergraduate scholarship medal, : Tuesday morning on business.
E. B. Robinson; Individual drill Miss Lessie Dillingham went
medal. Norman Matheson: Bur-, to Kansas City Wednesday to
nap trophy (gold watch) for 'spend the day.
best rifle shot, Frank Knight, S. N. Vilson went o Kansas
Jr.; Sword for Captain of best. City Wednesday to spend the
drilled company, Wallace Ash- day on business,
urst; All-around athletic medal, Rev. and Mrs. C. A. Burkhart,
Jack Fulbright; Debate medals, j Franklin, Ind., anounce the birth
J. H. Allen and J. P. Stella ; Dec-! of a daughter, May 25, 1916.
lamatory medal presented by Mrs. J. R. Potts, and son, Ray
Judge Richard Field, Guy ; mond Payne, went to Malta Bend
Burns; Swimming cup, E. Mcln- j Wednesday to attend the fun
tosch; Tennis cup, Jack Ful- eral of Mrs. Pott's sister, Mrs.
Summer Specials
AN IMMENSE BARGAIN IN CHINAWARE IN THE BIG
BARGAIN BASEMENT.
50 Piece Dinner Set, Beautiful Decorated Ware, for
S6.95
62 Piece Dinner Set, Beautiful Gold Decorated Ware, for
$9.85
AND WE GIVE (ABSOLUTELY
FREE) WITH EACH
SET BOUGHT, A BEAUTIFUL GLASS
WATER SET, riTCHER AND SIX
TUMBLERS ON METAL TRAY.
SEE
Our West Show Window for Display.
0t0
IN THE READY-TO-WEAR ROOM
"Wooltex" Pre-Shrunk Wash Skirts,
"Wirthmor" and "Welworth" waists,
And some excellent BARGAINS in
Coats and Suits.
A VISIT TO THIS DEPARTMENT
NOW WILL PAY YOU
A FULL AND COMPLETE LINE
of
Summer Farasols, Fans, Fancy Silk
Hose, Notions and Toilet Goods.
0 ..
'fcftttfarcariul&
, , ... .-t .. .wf M"f'f ItM'I''? f
bright. )J. L. Houston.
