REMEMBER THIS
Some paper is going to give you your
newt from the Chicago convention* this
week. Let it be The Star, whose reports
will be the best, the fastest, and clearest,
of those in any Northwest newspaper.
11 BRITISH WARSHIPS SUNK IN
THOUSANDS OF MEN DIE IN GREATEST NAVAL CLASH IN ALL HISTORY
24-HOUR FIGHT WITH GERMANS
GREATEST SEA BATTLE IN HISTORY! HOW CLASH OF GERM AN FLEET AN D THE BRITISH ARMADA LOOKED!
SWEZEA IS
SUED FOR
A DIVORCE
Mrs. Hannah ftwoxca. wife
ef Bart Lea Swezoa, wall
known wealthy clubman and
laadar In aoclal and commer
clil affalra in thla city, h«o
atartad ault Friday for a di
vorce, alleging oho ourpriaad
Mm on Eaater Bunday when
•ha found him Mated In hlo
private office In the Pioneer
•how A Commercial Printing
OOmpany entertaining two
•trango women who were
•making clgareta.
A demijohn of whisky and
glasses food on the table, ah* al
lots*
ftwezea la prevented from visit
ing his wife at their home on Mag
nolla HI tiff thru an order Issued by
Hnperlor Judge Ronald, who has
advised him to refrain frorfi m<>
looting Mrs In any way
during the pending case
She Wants Her Auto
Ho la ordered to ahow cause on
next Friday morning why he
ahould not pay her $ 1.10 a month
temporary alimony and $250 tem
porary ault money anil return her
l'e»rl"ss automobile, which he Is
aald to have taken stealthily from
ber, against her wishes, or. May 22
t.'p to three years ago, Mr*. Hwe
tea aaya, they lived happily to
gether
About that time, however, h" he
came Interested In fraternal and
••rial organizations, wajt elected to
various office* on account of his
popularity, and remains- most of
the time away from home
Al»out IS months ago Sw</.ea
moved to an apartment downtown
and rarely came home except to
visit her once a month, Mrs.
gwezea aayi
Hhe asks for a division of prop
erty. and alimony, estimating his
wealth as $50.000 In the printing
concern of which lie Is vice presl
dent and manager, and his Income
at $1,000 monthly
Hwezea said Friday he would
contest the i.ctlon. denying every
allegation made In his wife's com
plaint.
"I have tried." he said, "to make
a settlement, quietly out of cburt
I didn't want the adverae publicity
this will glvo mo I can disprove
•vary •uuaunt made '
Here it a graphic drawing of the great battle between the Britiah and German fleet* drawn by our staff artist from descriptions by cables
Root and Burton Booked for
Cabinet Jobs Under Rumored
Deal Made by Roosevelt Men
to stand sponsor for the slate, it was (airly
definitely established alonp (. andidates* How today tliat they
had let the allie* and (>ld < iuard know of the compromise
which will he most acceptable as the h.i-is of the marching
back into the fold of the progressive host.
That slate was Roosevelt for president and l-airbanks
for vice president; with the tacit understanding that Root
was to be secretary of state and Burton secretary of the
treasury.
trade the platform for the nominee that is, accept Roosevelt's
Americanism in their enunciation of principles, but name some
other leader as the standard bearer was known to be en
tirely unsatisfactory to the Roosevelt leaders.
United I'rcss dispatches from New \ ork 10 days ago
told of the inception of the compromise "late suggested above.
It was said at that time on authority close to Roosevelt
that he would refuse any olive branch which merely proposed
adopting his Americanism a* a platform without granting a
voice as to the nominee.
The R oosevelt-Kairbanks slate is the first
concrete compromise suggestion heard.
The allies today maintain Roosevelt would
be able to 'ommand not more than IHJ votes
on the first ballot.
The Roosevelt forces are not making
claims.
The f ummins boosters issued formal claim of IJI delr
gates. The Hughes tamp stood pat on it* previous declara
tion that the justice would hp nominated.
Confidence that the republican and progressive conven
tions would speedily agree on a presidential candidate grew
by leaps and bounds at Roosevelt headquarters today.
f'iri). YV. Perkins declared frankly the progressive com
mitter's plan all along ha been to wait for the republican*
to nominate a president before taking a< tion on nominees
themselves
The iiruinbaugh boom formally blossomed out in the
(Continued on pag* Ij
The Seattle S tar
: THE ONLY PAPER IN SEATTLE THAT DARES TO PRINT THE NEWS :
VOLUME 19.
By Perry Arnold
HICAOO. June 2.—The mightiest preconven
tion log jam of presidential possibility timber
that has clogged up the smooth-running of
republican waters in a score of quadrennial
conclaves was on today.
Mtho thr Roosevelt lieutenants refused
Judging from the hotel lobby gossip, such
a slate is far from pleading just now to the
allies or Old Guard hosts.
Hut they had no counter proposal to make
which would take care of the various favorite
Icons.
Intimations that they will be willing to
HUMPHREY
KNIFES'
OUR YARD
WASHINGTON, June 2.—
The acceptance by Congress
man Humphrey of an amblgu- •
ously worded amendment of
fered by Chairman Padgett of
the naval committee In the
house yesterday will prob
ably result In depriving th*
Bremerton navy yard of the
appropriation necessary to
make It a battleship building
yard.
instead of pressing aa an amend
meilt to the naval hill the hill
which Senator Polndexter am reed
ed In putting thru the senate. Mum
phrwy accepted the Padgett atnend
| ment.
Senator Polndexter'a hill pro
vides |2 0f15,000 for building ship
[equipment and toola to equip tne
I'nget sound navy yard for battle ,
jshlp construction
The amendment accepted by
Humphrey and which he helped
force thru the house provides that
only In caae the secretary of navy
is unable to secure battleship con
struction In private plants shall
any additional government nnvy
(yards be equipped for battleship
construction, and appropriates only
1 16,000,000 for seven navy yards, In
i hiding Philadelphia. Norfolk. Hon
ton, Portsmouth. Charlestown,
New Orleans and Puget sound.
All Up to Secretary
Thus th" secretary could nelei I
imy or all of the other vards be
' fore Puget sound would be equlp
, ped.
Gives Way to Padgett
Notwithstanding this, Humphrey
said: "Mr. Chairman, I have ready
to offer an amendment to equip the
Brejnerton yard for battleship eon
Htructlon; but till!" morning the
chairman of Ihn committee (Mr
Padgett > informed me that he
would offer an amendment that he
believed would care for the yard
"The amendment that he has of
fered, I believe, will Insure the
equipment of the yard at Hrenier
ton for battleship construction."
t'nder the I'adgelt amondment It
is likely that the yards on the At
lantlc would be favored before the
Pacific coast Is considered, since
the battleship fleet ia kept In the
Atlantic.
SEATTLE, WASH., FRIDAY, JUNK 2, 1916
• V GILSON GARDNER
Strikers Capture Non-Union
Men at Tacoma and Lock Them
Up; All Peaceful in Seattle
Striking longshoremen at Ta
coma tor* down high board
fencsa, captured non-union
workers who were loading the
S. 9. Nome City at the Eureka
dock, and took them across the
channel Friday noon at pris
oner*.
One strike breaker was In
jured In tie riots.
The strikers say they will es
tablish a detention camp on the
tldeflats and keep all non-union
men prisoners.
As a result of the Pacific
coast longshoremen's strike, a
general and sympathetic strike
of all organised workers In the
marine Industry was threatened
Friday.
Union leaders say this step
Is probable, unless there Is an
early compliance with their de
mands.
Such a strike would Involve the
marine flre.men. ollera and «ater
tender*' organization, the Sailors'
union of the Pacific, the Murine
me mm iot
WIEiSBIO
But has man ever under
stood woman?
("arron regarded tlie jjir lin
amazement. He was respon
sible for the death of the
thing she loved.
But her shoulder was soft
as it touched liiin. and her
eyes, reil with weeping, and
sad, were valiantly for him. lie
left it to her.
It was for women to gather
up the broken pieces, patiently
to fit them together and find
how to make the figure of
Love.
You will want to know more
about Blanche and Canon.
Read next week's novel in The
Star, "Son of the Wind."
«N imivi AMI ONF CFNT
M'M« "HM» »« Ullt I
Engineer*' Ileneflciary union, the
rasollne engineers an.l thi> marine
cook* and nit-wards
Will Wait for a While
Capt J R Gibson, of the Water
Front Employers' union. wild Frl
day that no great effort would tie
mad* to sign up nonunion workers
for several day*.
"We don't want to aggravate the
situation,'' hi> said "But If the
strike develops Into a
out uffalr, we will be prepared to
*o the limit."
Shipping men will lose $20,000
dally In Seattle us long as the long
shoremen « strike continue*.
This was the minimum estimate
made Friday, after checking up
charter coats.
Lose Thousands
All overseas carriers on the
Coast, it was pointed out, that re
main Idle because of the strike will
lose on an average of $4,000 each a
day.
Alaskan ports are In need of sup
plies which will tied up here If the
ftrlke continues
With the liat of Idle vessel*
tied up In Seattle because of
the longshoremen'* strike
swelled to 18 Friday, U. S
Commissioner of Immigration
Henry M. White planned to
make another effort to br'ng
employers and worker* togew
er for an early settlement
The proipect* for peace were
gloomy, however, became union
officer* handling the *trike de
clared repeatedly Friday that
all efforta to mediate on any
term* except full acceptance of
the union'* demand* would be
flatly refused.
No reports of violence had been
made til police headquarters by any
members of the special detail pa
trolling the waterfront up to 9 n. ni.
Friday.
I'nloti offlrers have notified May
or (till that there will lie no trouble
Crowds of strikers were standing
around on Railroad nve. Friday
watching every vessel
Non-Union Men at Work
Representatives of \V. It. Grace
* Co announced thut the 8. S. Colu
sa would be -ient to Tacoma Friday,
: where an effort would be made to
load her
If the plan work* out. they will
I send Hie Cuzco there Saturday.
LAST EDITION
Monday's the day. "Son of the Wind,"
The Star's next novel-a-week, begins on
that day. Don't forget it. Weather fore
cast: Fair and warmer tonight and Satur
day.
Great Armadas Pour
Broadsides Into Each
Other in All Day and
All Night Sea Battle.
NEW YORK, June 2 (2:45 p. m.). —The
English and German fleets met in the great
est sea battle of the war on Wednesday.
The British suffered tremendous losses
in ships and men.
The German fleet also suffered heavily
in the long, fierce battle, which extended
into the night.
At this hour, all official statement* indi
cate the British were much heavier losers
than the Germans.
The British admiralty statement, which reached New
York more than an hour after the fir-t news came today by
< lerman wireless, admitted the loss of three battle cruisers,
two cruisers and --ix destroyers, with six other destroyers
missing
Latest unofficial advices tonight from the naval engage*
ment stated that at least one German warship is known to
have been sunk. The same advices state that a Zeppelin
fleet co-operated with the German naval forces and worked
heavy execution among the British vessels.
The <>ernian admiralty admitted the loss of one battle
ship. one cruiser and several torpedo boats with one cruiser
and srveral torpedo boats missing.
The (ierman and British lists agree on the sinking of
the Queen Mary and the Indefatigable. Briti-h battle cruisers.
Ihe British also admitted the loss of the battle cruiser
Invincible.
6,258 Men Aboard British Ships
Which Are Said to Have Been Sunk
The (icrman list claims the destruction of the British
superdreadnaught Warspite, but tlie British list did not in
clude the Warspite.
1 he total number of men 011 the British ships sunk, if
they were carrying normal complement, was 6,258, excluding
the crews of two destroyers with unrecorded complements.
On the Marlborough, reported by the Germans to have
been torpedoed, were 1,000 men, not included in the above
figures The total loss in British tonnage claimed by the
Germans is 125,850.
The loss in German tonnage admitted bv the German
admiralty is 15,915. The \\ iesbaden is not included in the
estimate of lost German tonnage.
The scene of the engagement—the greatest sea fight of
the Rrc.it war was between Skagerak and Horn Riffal, in the
channel connecting the North and Baltic seas.
German estimates of British losses are apparently based
on reports of British sailors picked up by (icrman ships.
Engagement Last* All Day and All Night;
Large Battleship Among British Victims
An intimation of the probable extent of the British losses
is contained in the statement that only two survivors of the
treat battle cruiser Indefatigable were rescued by the Ger
mans.
The admiralty statement, tinder date of June 1, said!
"During an enterprise directed northward, our high seas fleet
on May encountered the main part of the English fighting
fleet, which was considerably superior to our forces.
"During the afternoon, between Skagerak and Horn
Riffal, news of a heavy engagement developed which was
j successful for us and continued also during the night.
"In this engagement, as tar as known, until now, we
destroyed the large battleship Warspite, the battle cruisera
I Queen Mary and Indefatigable, two armored cruisers, ap-
I parentis - of the Achilles type, one small cruiser, new flagships
| of the destroyers Turbant and Xcstore and Alcaster, a nutih
; l»cr of torpedo destroyers and one submarine.
"By observation, it was stated that a large number of
British battleships suffered heavy damage from the fire of
our ships and the attacks of our torpedo boat flotillas dur
ing the engagement, which lasted during the entire day and
all night.
"Among others, the large battleship Marlborough was hit
by a torpedo. This is confirmed by prisoners.
"Several of our ships rescued parts of the crews of tlm
sunken British ships, among whom were two survivors of the
1 ndefatigable.
Berlin Statement Admits Loss of
Several Vessels; Fate of Some in Doubt
"Among our losses were the small cruiser Wiesbaden,
which was sunk by British gunfire during the day engage
ment, and his Majesty's ship Pomincrn, which was sunk dur
ing the night engagement by a British torpedo boat.
"The fate of I lis Majesty's ship hraucnlob is as yet un
determined. There is a possibility that this bo;# has been
| lost, together with a number of torpedo boats, which hav<|
j not reported and whose fate is unknown.
"The high seas fleet returned to its base today."
It was more than an hour after the German wireless
announcing the battle had reached New York, that the first
statement of the British admiralty arrived by cable.
A cable message, the first part of which was delayed
jin transmission, stated that the know n British destroyers
I lost included the Tipperary, the Turbulent, the Fortune,
the Sparrowhawk and the Ardent.
This list was the first enumeration by name of small
j British craft lost in the engagement.
The Queen Mary, the Indefatigable and the Invincible,
(Continued on page 2)
