tvtut <i <i in iibi—
J ' @ kT W ((
I [SWi&mM 1 *1 'il ‘ li i 7 i iF r? I I i tw lv/ j7
ELEVENTH YEAR, No. 50.
PROGRAM
OF THE
Dedicatory Exercises
AT THE
CELEBRATION
OF THE
COMPLETION OF THE WEST OKANOGAN IRRIGA
TION PROJECT.
OROVILLE, WN.
Wednesday, June 7th
MORNING
Band Concert
Welcoming a’l visitors and delegates upon arrival by the
reception committee and citizens of Oroville.
Special train and auto party arrive 11:30 a. m.
Lunch, 11 ;30 to 12:00
ATTENTION
Special Excursion Train, accompanied by Oroville Con
cert Band to intake at 12:30 p. m., returning at 2:00
p. m., viewing construction of main canal, flumes and
hcadgate along scenic Similkameen Rivfer, in charge
J. C. Stevens, Engineer of District and F. W. Graham
Great Northern Railway. (Bound trip, 50c.)
Moving Pictures featuring entire day.
AFTERNOON
1 iv-V • - * ■
Program, 2:00 P, M. at Civic League Park.
Speakers of the Day—
Governor Ernest Lister.
Mayor Hi C. Gill, of Seattle.
O. L. Waller, Vice-President W. S. C.
Judge F. V. Brown, Seattle,
J), C. Heney, Portland.
Oroville Concert Band assisted by some of the best talent
of the state, will give morning, afteronon and even
ing concerts. This assures the best music ever furn
ished in north-central Washington.
Formal Auto Procession at 4:30 P. M., viewing Osoyoos
Lake, enroute to point overlooking the valley and
project for Official Dedicatory Ceremonies:
. I—lntroductory Remarks, S. B. Starred, Jr.,
chairman.
II —Historical Reminiscences and Organization,
Geo. I. Cole, Director.
111“ What the Project Means to the Community ”
Mayor J. F. Samson.
To the Commercial Interests, Otto I. Case.
Representing Seattle Commercial Club.
To the Industrial Immigration Interests, F.
W. Graham, Great Northern Railway.
To the State, Governor Ernest Lister.
Building the Project, —
Designing, D. C. Heney, chief engineer.
Supervision, J. C. Stevens, Engr. in charge.
Construction and Delivery of completed pro
ject to the district, R. F. Hoffmark, engineer
for contractors.
Dedication, Miss Ada Truax.
Acceptance on behalf of the District, M. K.
Bowen, president of the irrigation district.
Music by the Band —
Competative Hose Race between the teams of the volun
teer fire department on Main street at 6 p. m.
Evening Smoker and Program at Civic League building.
At this time the Oroville Commercial Club, assisted
by the Tonasket Commercial Club will entertain in
formally visiting delegates and all other guests.
Dance—
Moving Picture Shows —
Join with Oroville in celebrating and dedicating the
largest co-operative irrigation project in the United
States. You cannot afford to miss the message the speak
ers of the day will bring to us.
ATTEND AND
GET THE SPIRIT
OROVILLE. WASHIN VTON, JUNE 2. 191 G.
SUDDEN DEATH.
Henry Hofmeaer Dies In an Automobile
While on a Trip to Fairvlew.
Tills community was startled and shock-
Vi Durst lay morning: by the news that
henry Hofmeaer. a well known, highly
respected, industrious resident of Orovllle
,uul suddenly in an automobile while
on a pleasure trip to Falrview, if. 0.,
some UU miles nortii of town.
It is learned that Wednesday afternoon
*\V'- Holineaer in company with A. J.
Wh-keisham, Aligns McLean and Lester
Armstrong lelt for Fairvlew on merely a
pleasure trip in Mr. Wickersham’s ear.
\t it) o dock that evening the auto drove
np to Dr. Lewis’ residence, and lie was
informed tliat something was wrong wit
Mr. Hofmeaer, as he had not spoken
since Hie party left Fairvlew and could
nut lie aroused. The doctor hastily exam
ined 11 ie presumably unconscious man,
and at once declared him dead. The body
was taken to the Barnes undertakiu
parlors. Mr. Barnes did not examine the
remains until Thursday morning, when
he discovered a discolored spot on the
right side of the forehead that appeared
as it caused by a blow, and fearing that
there might have been a tragedy connect
ed witli tile sudden death Mr. Barnes had
Marshal Wilson notify the county offi
cials Sheriff Stark. Deputy Sheriffs Ward
and Burden and Marshal Wilson commen
ced working on the case before noon
Thursday, and the coroner and prosecut
ing attorney were sent for. Up to the time
of suing to press tlie officials iiad not
completed their investigations.
in an interview Mr. Wlckersham s
We were in the bur room of the hotel
and Mr. Hofmeaer, who had taken «.
a few drinks, walked out and got Intr
the car. We, (meaning the balance of tin
party) had supper and then Joined Mr.
Hofmeaer at the car and started home.
Mr. Hofmeaer was sitting up in tlie «
like a major. When wo reached a point
near town I spoke to the others, telling
*m to wake np if any of them were
asleep. It was then discovered that some
thing was wrong with Mr. Hofmeaer. ah
he would not, or could not speak. I drove
Immediately to Dr. Lewis’ office and not
Hinting him, continued on to ids rest
deuce. After an examination the doctor
stated that Mr. Hofmeaer was dead.”
The deceased was 59 years of age. a
native of Germany, but a resident of the
I’idled States for the past forty years,
and thoroughly imbued with the spirit of
Americanism. He was gentle, kindly. In
offensive. and it seems impossible that he
could have been a victim of foul play. He
leaves a wife and family, his eldest daugh
ter being the wife of Morris Walmer.
Mother and daughter are prostrated by
the sudden calamity, for lie was a devoted
husband and a kind and affectionate
ither. The date of the funeral has not
been fixed. It will probably be In charge
of tlie fire department, as the deceased
was an active member of the chemical
engine company.
The publication of the Oasette was held
back twenty hours In the hopes of being
able to publish the coroner's- verdict, but
at the (‘lose of taking testimony at near
ly midnight Thursday, more evidence de
veloped and the hearing was continued
until tfVbUfcv V
Prosecuting Attorney Jonnson and (Tor
oner Dr. Carmichael came up from Oka
nogan about .1 p. m., Thursday. The two
doctors, Lewis and Carmichael examined
the remains and decided that a post mor
tem was necessary. A bruise was found
upon the right side of tHe forehead, with
; clot of blood between the scalp and the
skull The internal organs were found In
a healthy condition. The skull w'as not
fractured, but the blow could have caus
ed death. The bruise could have been
made by a blow' or fall.
The three companions of Hofmeaer,
Wlckersham, Armstrong and McLean,
could throw little light on the case. They
claimed that deceased was in the bar
room not over 30 minutes, went out as
they supposed to get into the car. Upward
of two hours afterward, at dusk, when
they got in the car to come home Hof
meaer was sitting in the back seat, with
the laprobe around him, evidently asleep.
He did nut speak or move out of that po
sition on the trip down, and his condition
was only discovered this side of the boun
dary line. From the testimony It was evi
der.t that the party was somewhat under
the influence of liquor, Armstrong espec
ially. 'Hie case is a most mysterious one
and further evidence may throw more
light on it at this morning’s hearing.
STRONG COMMENDATION.
A. M. Phelan, of Marysville, Wash
ington, was visiting with his old friend
and co-worker, T. E. Collier of this
place, for a few days this week. It has
been many years since Mr. Phelan has
had the pleasure of visiting Orovllle,
and he noticed many changes tor the
better. He spoke in glowing terms of
the country, and predicted a great
future for the beautiful Okanogan val
ley and its splendid resources. While
here he visited the famous Epsom
salts works, which he mentioned as
only an industry in its Infancy, but
speaks volumes for the hidden wealth
of the hills and vales that are as yet
only scratched over. He was warm in
his praise of the industry, energy and
enterprise of the people of the valley
in securing the irrigation of their
lands. Mr. Phelan is a man of much
experience, is an old and well known
railroad man, having been master
mechanic of the Marcus division when
the road was constructed into Orovllle.
Such words of praise from a man of
Mr. Phelan's experience carries weight
and is of value, as he has traveled ex
tensively in this state, and is familiar
with conditions in other localities and
a close observer of conditions in any
community that he visits.
SUNDAY SCHOOL CONVENTION
The Okanogan County Sunday School
association will hold Its annual meeting
in the Presbyterian church at this place
next Monday and Tuesday. The first
day's proceedings will he confined to an
evening session, but an exceedingly long
program Is to he crowded into Tuesday,
commencing with a sun rise prayer meet
ing and continuing long into the evening.
Three or four prominent speakers will he
present from outside places. The conven
tion promises to he largely attended and
both Instructive and entertaining. Any
citizen tahl can accommodate visitors
Should cheerfully extend the hospitality
of the home, for there will he many here
In lie entertained.
The ladies of the Altar society will
hold a food sale in Sexson’s drug store
on Tuesday, June 6, and the public
can expect to have a pick from a large
quantity of the very best eadibles that
cooks can manufacture.
HORRIBLE ACCIDENT.
Tuesday about noon Henry Jolly met
with a frightful accident at Carl Itofslng's
saw mill, near Havillah, which Dually re
sulted in ids death. The mill started oper
ations only a short time ago. It seems
that the logs for the mill are dumped on
an Incline at the mill so that they can br
ibe more readily handled in getting them
to the saw’ carriage. At the time of the
accident Mr. Jolly was attending to load
ing tiie logs for the saw. In some manner
the mass of logs suddenly started rolling
down, catching the unfortunate man and
pressing his lower extremities against tin*
revolving saw. Before the mill could be
stopped the saw had ground the ankle of
the Ipft leg to a pulp, and cut out the
entire right knee, shockingly lacerating
the flesh and shattering the bones. Dr. \V.
A. Howard, a retired physician living near
was palled In and rendered first aid, thus
preventing bleeding to death. The wound
ed man was placed upon an auto and
rushed to Oroville. As there is no hospital
here at present Dr. Lewis had no place
to treat the case. He dressed the injuries
so far as possible under the circum
stances and Wednesday morning Mr. Jol
ley Was taken to a hospital at Spokane
where lie died at 11 o’clock Wednesday
night
DEATH OF L. D. OLIVER.
Louis Dow Oliver, deputy customs col
lector stationed at Oroville. died Sunday,
evening about 11 o’clock, after a linger
ing Illness. 'Hie funeral was private, and
100k 4 place from Hie chapel in the Barnes
undertaking parlors at noon Tuesday, llev.
A, W. Bond officiating.
The deceased was born July 11. lss-1, at
Stafford. Kansas, and hence was aged Hi
years, 10 months and 11 days. He came to
Washington some twelve years ago, and
was married to Miss Myrtle Uanney. at
Tacofna, February 8. 1900. He entered the
custpfns service between six and seven
years- ago. and was assigned to the office
at Oroville in July, 1914. He was a grad
uate of the University of Washington and
a member of the Kappa Sigma fraternity.
He leaves a wife and a number of rela
tives to mourn his untimely death. Owing
to tire insidious disease that Dually prov
ed fetal. Mr. Oliver, during his residence
here, was confined very much to Ids home.
com£ag in contact with few beyond those
will. whom he transacted official business.
Those has never been a more beautiful
exemplification of womanly devotion and
self sacrifice than in this instance where
the%iyal and sorrowing wife bore her
croiM uncomplainingly remaining witli
and attending to the wants of the suffefer
alone and unsupported, every day and
horn*, for months and months, realizing
that the ruthless ailment was Incurable,
helpless to render succor, and bending all
her>eiiergiea to make life easier for the
vlct-SVii by constant attention and gentle
anajeareful nursing. She has the sym
pathy and has won the admiration of tin*
entlrV community.
| \ PLEASED VISITORS.
Saturday Mrs. H. M. Crocker, ot
Kildare, Oklahoma, came up from
JVttLlchee with daughter-in-law.
if. Cffia&rr&tttl -were gTiWsrnf*
Mr. and Mrs. W. P. Mahood, recent ar
rivals from Oklahoma, who have look
ed upon the Okanogan valley and are
content. Through the klndnes of L. P.
Pourtales the two Mrs. Crocker were
able to see much of the valley in this
neighborhood, the gentleman driving
tlie visitors around the country in his
car. Both ot the ladies express them
selves as delighted with the country
and its future prospects. Mrs. H. M.
Crocker was so well pleased that when
she left Monday she expressed her In
tention to return and locate perman
ently. Her husband is a man ot large
business experience, and should the
report of his better half induce him to
change his residence from Oklahoma
to Oroville the family would prove to
be a valuable addition to the popula
tion.
SERVICES OF M. E. CHURCH.
Sunday school at 10 a. in. Praio-hlng
service at 11 a. m. Subject of sermon:
“Pure religion.” Epworth League it 7 p.
m Preaching service at 8 p. in. Subject, oi
sermon: “How to escape hell.” Everybody
welcome; everybody invited; everybody
come. The homelike church and the stran
ger’s friend.
WASHINGTON STATE COLLEGE CLUB
All graduates and former students of
the Washington State College, residing in
Okanogan county are invited to be in
Orovllle and attend a W. S. C., banquet
and organization meeting in the Hotel de
Grubb dining room, at nine o’clock Tues
day evening June Gth. In order that ar
rangements for the banquet may be com
pleted, all those who expect to be present
should notify W. Leonard Davis, Orovllle,
Washington, not later than Monday, June
sth. Wives and husbands of State College
graduates and former students are invited
to the banquet.
PRESBYT E RIA HURCH
Preaching morning and evening. Morn
ing service 11 o’clock; evening service 8
o’clock. Sunday school at 10. We welcome
you to all our services.
A. W. BONO, Pastor.
MUSICAL ENTERTAINMENT.
A musical entertainment will be given
In the Orpheum this Friday evening un
der the auspices of Trinity Guild of the
Episcopal church. A number of the lady
musicians will take part, and there will
be other features on the program of an
interesting nature. The entertainment
will be one of the most pleasing and en
joyable that has been given in Orovllle
for some time, .and should draw a crowd
ed house. The price of admittance will be
P. 5 cents for adults ayd 15 cents for chil
dren under 12.
Mrs. R. M. Morrison and children de
parted Thursday morning for Seattle, and
after closing up some business affairs
Mr. Morrison will follow. The family will
make their home in Seattle, and Mr. Mor
ris will go into busines in Alaska. The
departure of the Morrisons takes out of
the community a most excellent family,
and although they resided here only a few
months they leave many warm friends.
Their residence in the east part of town
was sold to a Mr. Johnson.
This office acknowledges a pleasant
call from an old time friend in the person
of C. H. Baldwin, of Loomis, who was in
town Wednesday, Mr. Baldwin has lived
in the north part of the county for twen
tv-four years, and although well up in
the 70s is as vigorous and active as most
men at 50. Mr. Baldwin now lives on a
beautiful ranch in the Slnlahekin valley,
but in his day he had been one of the best
machinists in this country. He also has
the distinction of being the oldest Odd
Fellow in the county, if not in eastern
Washington.
WILL UK SIMKHKLY WISHED.
It Is with feelings of more regret
than can he expressed in words that
wo note the gradual disintegration of
(lie office and field force attached to
the several departments connected
with the building of the local irriga
tion system. As the work reaches com
pletion these gentlemen—and it is a
pleasure to record that all of them
with whom we have come In contact,
possesses every attribute of the gen
tleman —having finished the tasks as
signed them are called to other fields.
They were here only temporarily, yet
that temporary stay has stretched out
almost a year, and in that time ac
quaintance has so ripened that sepa
ration is the more keenly felt. In a
few weeks, at best, all of those in any
way connected with the installment
of the system, both in the engineering
and construction department, will
have gone lienee, leaving a vacancy
In Hie community that cannot well be
tilled. Some of the attaches were ac
companied by their wives. These la
dies have entered into (he soeial life
of this small community, their charm
ing personalities winning warm
friendships among those whom they
have met, friendships that will exist
long after their departure. These peo
ple will take with them the best
wishes of tlie friends they have made
during their residence here, and those
friends trust that some, if not all of
them, may have occasion to drift back
to Oroville at some future period, at
least to visit for a time if not to be
come permanent citizens.
UNDESIRABLES.
A flock of gypsies filtered into town
Monday, purporting to have come
Hi rough from California, and a pair of
Hie female contingent, one youthful
and the other ancient, did a thriving
business in the fortune telling line.
They were persistent and insistent,
and if halt the good luck they prom
ised comes to those who crossed the
grimy palms with silver Oroville la
going to have a large crop of million-
Mths. it WT.S trfr kftiTir old Irtetirrestnie
exhibition of nomadic Bohetnianism,
common to gypsy life, running largely
to colors and shockingly short of any
evidence of soap. The safest place for
chickens during the inundation was the
high roost, and householders did not
forget to lock up all movables. These
rovers may have been strictly honest,
but a questionable reputation preceded
their arrival and their presence was
looked upon with suspicion.
A movement is on foot to build a
wagon road up the north bank of tho
Similkameen river from Oroville to
Nighthawk. This road has been needed
for years, and now is a greater neces
sity than ever. Such a road has been
agitated every summer for the past
twenty years, and it is hoped that
something tangible may grow out of
the present movement in that direc
tion.
As will be noted by reference to the
advertising columns of this issue the
Oroville Construction company, a firm
of builders with a reputation for doing
work in the way of construction that
cannot he excelled, have taken up a
side line and entered upon the manu
facture of concrete pipe, which is com
ing into demand with the Introduction
of irrigation on a larrge scale. They
will make concrete articles like they
do buildings, and that means first class
in every particular.
Ij. M. Norelius ami W. A, Kerr, who
have been connected with the office of
J. C. Stevens, engineer in charge rep
resenting the irrigation district dur
ing the construction of the project, left
lor Portland this week, having con
cluded their labors. Mr. Kerr had
tits family with him during his resi-
dunce here. Both are capable in the
positions they held, and personally
pleasant and likeable young gentle
men. They will be missed in this com
munity where they had almost become
fixtures. Enginer Stevens and his as
sistant, Victor Rinaking, will remain
here a few days longer closing up the
work they have been in charge of.
Among the visitors arriving in Oroville
Tuesday were Otto A. Case ami Geo. M.
Jacobs. Mr. Case Is well known through
out the state, having served four years as
county clerk and four years as county
auditor of King county. For the past three
years he has served as secretary of the
Seattle Commercial club, the largest civic
organization of Seattle. Mr. Case will
represent the Club at the celebration on
June 7th. Mr. Jacobs is also well known
in business and insurance circles, serving
at present as inspecter of agencies for the
Northern Life Insurance company, of Se
attle. These gentlemen are looking over
tlie ground here in the Interests of the
Northern Life, which company contem
plates opening up their insurance business
in this section. The company will also
make loans and investments here. J. S.
Rice, financial agent for the company, ar
rived hero Tuesday evening and will look
over the field. Mr. Case and Mr. Jacobs
were the guests of Dell Hart Wednesday
on an auto tour. Said Mr. Case: “I have
visited all sections of the state recently
i id rowhere do I find a moie promising
outlook. The spirit of your peopb in heart
i*\ <•( -operating for the commM good of
all v 111 bring you many blessings.” Mr.
Jacobs was also more than pleased and
; .vu'cted a great future for
A SUBJECT TO TOUCH GENTLY.
An undertaking establishment is an
indispensable adjunct to a town of any
size. It is as legitimate as it is neces
sary, yet in its very nature, it is the
last business line that any one cares
to patronize. In fact It is never patro
nized by the individual requiring such
service. That unpleasant dickering is
left for the sorrowing survivors. It is
the one occupation where the man en
gaged in it is never wished success, or
any increase in business. One can
meet up with the grocer, the butcher,
the baker and sincerely express a hope
for a prosperous season. No one can
thus cheerfully encourage the hopes
of the undertaker, and the only time
he is in for congratulations is when he
is idle.
Yet, as stated at the beginning of
this item, an undertaking establish
ment is an absolute necessity in a com
munity, and fortunate it is for that
community where the mournful and
unpopular business is la the hands of
an individual who is prepared and
competent to perform the sad duties
that fall to his lot, and is his source of
livelihood, in a solemn, decorus, gen
tle and courteous manner. Orovllle is
very much favored in this respect. As
a funeral director and mortuary the
local undertaker, L. \V. Barnes, has a
faculty of handling funerals with un
exceptional thoughtfulness for the
feelings of those most directly con
cerned. This is made possible by his
natural sympathetic attitude toward
those in affliction, bis thorough
knowledge of what is required upon
such occasion, and because be posses
ses all the modern accessories for in
terments.
Since entering the business here
Mr. Barnes’ aim has been to secure
for himself an undertaking establish
ment second to none in the largest
cities, surrounding it with such feat
ures as might soften as far as possi
ble the unpleasant sensations that the
very name awakens in the average
human being. The lot upon which the
building stands has been beautified by
the planting of .trees, the growing of
h velvetsnawn, a summer
house and general embellishing of the
premises. He has fitted up a neat room
that can be used as a chapel from
which private funerals can be held,
while other departments of the build
ing are so neatly arranged, and the
wares so carefully excluded from
sight that the gruesomeness that is
considered inseparable from the busi
ness is nowhere apparent. Mr. Barnes
has just added to his establishment
an elegant hearse, a vehicle the town
has heretofore been deficient in. In
finish and appointments it excells any
thing of like kind to be found outside
of the large cities, and originally cost
$2,000. It is a solidly built funeral car
riage, from its rubber tires to its plate
glass pannels, massive lamps, its
ebony body and silver plated fixtures
is an exquisite specimen of craftman
ship. Mr. Barnes will make still more
extensive improvements in his build
ing and accessories until he reaches
his Ideal, and bis ideal is an establish
ment and surroundings that cannot be
surpassed anywhere.
Commercial Club luncheon Thursday
hud the largest attendance of any meeting
since the club was formed.
Mrs. H. L,. Prentice and son were pas
sengers for Okanogan Wednesday to visit
with Mr. and Mrs. Jas. Prentice.
Mrs. Chas. T. Peterson and children
went to Okanogan Wednesday to visit
with Mrs, Peterson's sister, Mrs. C. H.
Brickblll.
W. H. Finsen lift for Spokane Thurs
day morning apd expects to return Satur
day with a 75 model and an 83 model
Overland.
Miss Grace McDaniel of Loomis grad
uated from the Pullman high school this
month with high honors, and is now at
home with her parents.
R. B. Pierpont, forest ranger, who has
been located at Fish Lake, betwen Loomis
and Conconully for a number of years,
purchased a Studebaker car from Geo.
Bartel).
The Lyric theatre presents Marie Doro
in "The White Pearl” Saturday and Sun
day evenings, a fanciful romance of the
Orient, In which mystery and drama are
absorbingly interwoven. It is a beautiful
and delightful feature that will prove a
charm to the patrons of the movies.
"My Madonna," taken from "The Spell
of the Yukon” and other verses by Robert
W. Service, with Madame Petrova, the
charming actress in the leading role is the
attraction at the Orpheum for Saturday
and Sunday evenings and it Is the strong
est feature attraction presented for some
time. See It.
Wm. McDaniel of Loomis recently pur
chased an Overland car from W. H. Fin
sen of this place, and was over in It Wed
nesday, accompanied by Mrs. McDaniel,
Mr. and Mrs. Percy Eastman and C. H.
Baldwin. Those in the car displayed no
trepidation, which would Indicate that the
old cow man drives a car as skillfully as
he rides a cayuse.
Tuesday afternoon Phil Swensen caught
his right hand in a saw at O. C. Rice’s
saw mill, on Mount Hull, and the llrst.
second and little fingers of the right hand
were severely lacerated, hut fortunately
no bones were permanently Injured. Dr.
Lewis dressed the wounds and Mr. Sch
wensen, who can be thankful for a lucky
escape from a more serious injury, will
be all right In a short time.
Mr. and Mrs. Geo. H. Ellis, of Spo
kane, and Mrs. Lair H. Gregory, of
Portland, motored in from Spokane
Tuesday, arriving late at night and
will visit for a month with the parents
of Mrs. Ellis and Mrs. Gregory, Mr,
and Mrs. Frank M. Dallam.
$1.60 PER TEAR
