,tw
I
VOLUME X!V.
SELMtR. McNAIRY COUNTY. TENN.. FRIDAY, JUNE 2, 1016.
NUMBER 47
James J. Hill, the Great North
Western pioneer and railroad
builder, died at his home in St.
raul, Minn., Monday, tie was
near hia 90th near. His services
in the great Northwest and his
broad conception of big things,
coupled with the ability to accom
plish results, has been the won
der of men for many years.
Mr. E. L. Robinson, market
agent of the M. & 0., and Mr.
. Carlton Ball, dairy and poultry
agent of the M. & 0., both with
headquarters at St. Louis, called
. ; 4sn uc a few days ago, and gave
us an outline of what the M. & 0.
is putting up to the farmers.
They propose to put an agent
here and buy all the cream
brought in and pay cash down
for same, which they say would
bring to the housewife the equal
of 30c per pound for the butter
made .from same. Due notice
will be given when they will visit
all points with a dairying car,
and show the details of the plan.
room. Unly a very few articles oi
furniture were removed.
The house was newly and elegantly
furnished. The furnishings were val
ued at between $2,500 and $3,000,
with only $800 insurance. The build
ing was worth at least $3,000, with
$1,500 insurance.
The cause of the fire is a mystery,
but is supposed to have been from a
defective flue or fire from the range,
which had smouldered for hours.
It is not probable that it will ever
be rebuilt, as it is not the best loca
tion now for a hotel.
It was as airless a night as could
be, yet the sparks on the roofs of Mr.
Peery, Mr. Estes, Joe Gray, and the
Gooch hotel fired the roofs, but were
extinguished. The three trunks of
beautiful shade trees stand as mute
martyrs saving the depot. It causes
sadness to every one as they -look
down the street to see only the tall
chimneys standing as reminders of
many hallowed associations which
during a generation clustered around
the first good hotel ever built in Sel-
mer.
I T FTTPR I
A 'S
The Independent has just re
ceived a fresh batch of New
York letter, which, if anything
surpass in interest those hereto
fore enjoyed by our readers.
One of the letters is a vivid de
scription of the writer's visit to
the New York Cotton Exchange, The year 1903 was one of the most
where the price of the staple is interesting I have ever experienced,
mainly fixed, and this shows how for it was then that ai Special Fen
it is done. Such information as sion Examiner I travelled over West
this, which no other correspond- Virginia and eastern Kentucky, meet
ent but ours could have succeded ing the mountaineers and seeing some
in getting, perhaps, as be has of the roughest country in this na-
peculiar facilities for getting on tion.
the inside nearly everywhere, is The Tag River, a branch of the Big
of real value to the people, and Sandy, is the dividing line between
none can afford to miss it. Or- the two states for many miles, and its
ders should be given in advance banks were the scene of bloody rights
for copies, or, better still, every among the feud factions who did their
one interested (and who is not?) murderous work there twenty or
should subscribe. We also ad- thirty years ago. Starting almost
vise our readers to preserve these from nothing, these feuds raged be
papers, as the articles therein tween several factions, the most noted
of which was the Hatfield-McCoy con
tingent. "Devil Anse" Hatfield head'
ed the West Virginia clan, while
"Ran" McCoy led the faction on the
Kentucky side. There were per
fifty of each gang, and all
went armed day ana mgnt: mat
is, they Blept with their guns and
knives, and were always ready for a
fight to the death. At least half of
them were killed before the feud
died out. A McCoy gang met some
Hatfields one day near the river bank,
and laid them low; then other Hat
fields 'crossed the river, into- Pike
county, Kentucky, and "treed" their
enemies in a log cabin near Black-
The sleeping town was aroused berry nrancn or rona creeic. x saw
Sunday morning about 3 o'clock, by the Bpot where it had stood. The be
the shooting of guns and the whis- seiged MoCoys ehot out at their pur-
tlina of the electric-Hs;ht plant. Cit- auers through the logs of the cabin,
are of permanent, historic inter
est, and will read as well next
year as now. If possible, these
letters will be kept up, - even if
the have to be shortened some,
as the writer says he is pretty
busy with his own work, but
likes to talk to his old neigbors
and kinf oiks. - ;
DISASTROUS FIRE
The Warren Hotel Reduced
Ashes. Narrow Escape
of Inmates
to I
liens rushed to their doors and win-
daws, to see the curling: smoke and
dartiofl' flames near the depot, and
oon on to the building affected.
The Warren hotel stood just east
of the railroad, nearly opposite the
depot, and was the terminus of the
stately Court avenue with its broad
expanse of shade trees. The building
was erected by P. H. Thrasher in the
and got more than ono victim, but
the Hatfields crept up "to the cabin
and set it afire. Then one of the Mc
Coy women went out with a pitcher
of buttermilk and tried to put out
the fire, She was shot dead by
Hatfield bullet, but just who fired it
was never found out. ..That was the
beginning of the end. The people on
both sides so strongly condemned the
early days of the town. It was an shooting of a woman that the feud
attractive two story frame, with
porches' and other features which
made it' an attractive building. In
front of the south wing stood a
stately willow oak and two large gum
trees, affording a moat delightful
shade for the porches surrounding
the building.
. A few years ago the building be-
. came the property of J. T. Warren,
president of the First National Bank
For a year bis son-in-law, Mr. Bryant,
end wife had conducted the hotel with
marked success. Mr. Warren made
bis home there, and a number of reg
died out through public ' contempt,
The cabin burned down; "Ran" Mc
Cov and two of his sons tried to es
cape; the old man alone got away,
but always carried deep scars from
that conflict. ,
It was related that one day the
Hatfields caught a bunch of the Mc
Coys on the banks of the Tug and
lined them up to be shot. One after
the other of the victims was shot
down in cold blood, till they came to
a McCoy lad of fourteen, whom the
Hatfields did not like to kill. They
consulted their chief. "Devil Anse'
n!.i hnm-dara. Including the editor of about it. He looked at the boy, who
the Independent and wife, though stood there unflinchingly, thought
the did not room there, moment, and said: 'Little snakes
. . I t a i m mi v
Before anyone could arrive, the manes nig snases. men, pointing
whole aoiAh wing, with the kitchen to a big, Bmooth sycamore tree, that
and large dining room, was filled with rose straight in the air forty feet to
m, .ml .lmnok inRtantlv burst the first limb, and was at least two
Into flames. Mr. V. H. Morris, of the feet thick, he said to tha boy: "Bud
Indenendent office, occupied a room If you can climb that tree, I'll Bpare
the dinine room. The smoke your me. ine Doy saw it was m
awoke him and he barely escaped with possible, and said so. In another
hia life down the stairway, losing all of minute he was gasping out his last
bis wearing apparel. Others, on the Dream on me grass Dy me river awe,
rat floor.' made their way out through Cap Hatfield, the oldest son "of Devil
moke, which seemed to fill every Anse, had, it was said, killed sixteen
men, and he (Cap) had a son of four
teen years who had four notches on
his rifle to his credit, each notch
meaning a dead McCoy,
Riding along the Kentucky side of
the Tug river one day, in a sort of
open bottom, where there was a
meadow of perhaps fifty acres sur
rounded by hills on all sides but the
east, where the river was, I saw a big
platform standing in the lonesome
spot, and there was a cross-piece of
heavy oak timbor at the top a gal-
ows big enough to hang twenty men
at one time. I heard afterward that
that had been erected by the McCoys,
for use in case the Hatfields could be
caught. Devil Anse, who used to own
valuable lands at that spot, could Bee
it from the West Virginia side, but it
was like the promised land just out of
reach for him, "while Jordan rolled
between."
Once I had a pension claim for one
of the McCoy widows to look up, and
Devil Anse had to be seen 'and bis
testimony taken, as he had been a
witness to the wedding. I started on
the trail at Logan courthouse, up
Fountain creek, which I followed for
fourteen miles before finding the
noted feudist. As I rode up the
creek, where numerous splash-dams
had been constructed to aid in rafting
the timber down out of the hills, I
inquired at frequent intervals as to
how far it was to the house of Devil
Anse Hatfield. Everybody would then
ask me who I was, and what was my
business. Finally, a big white house,
the finest in all that region, nearly at
the head of the creek, was reached,
and I went in. A kind-faced old lady,
who said she was Mrs. Hatfield, invit
ed me in to the fire, as it was in the
late fall, and said Anse was out hunt
ing the in mountains but would be in
soon. Isatdownby the fire, and a
young couple, just married (the
youngest daughter of Devil Anse and
her young mountaineer husband) were
spooning, and kept on with their love-
making, just as though nobody were
present. Around the wall were
numerous photographs of Devil Anse,
showing him with a rifle in each hand,
pistols peeping from each pocket, and
big bowie knife in his teeth and a
butcher knife at his belt. "I'm sorter
ashamed of Anse, the way they've got
him pictured there," the old lady said;
"the picture man said the pictures
would sell that-a-wav, and he has sold
several of them at a quarter apiece."
promptly bought one at the price,
Soon I saw a Btoop-shouldered old
man coming down the mountain side
with light step, and Devil Anse was
introduced to me. Another raoun
taineer suddenly aDpeared in the hall
and motioned him to one side. He
was armed, and looked at me suspl
ciously, but a whispered word from
the old feudist sent him away satis
fied, He was there to protect Hat
field, I suppose.
Hooked at the noted West Vir
ginia ieuaist with much interest.
Sixty-five years old, eyes keen and
bright, beard and bair, both long and
flowing, without a silver thread! And
handsome! I was much struck by the
strong resemblance between him and
the pictures of the poet Tennyson,
and told him so. He had never heard
of Tennyson, but I told him the man
was one of the greatest of writers,
We soon sat down to a regular moun
tain dinner, in which bojled pig back
bones and ribs played a large part.
Anse bent over his plate, with a big
piece of meat in his hands, and re
moved the flesh with a great deal of
speed and no little noise, utterly dis
daining the knife and fork laid at his
plate, meanwhile, he talked, without
any prompting from me, of the great
feud in which he had taken such
leading part, ilit started, as you
mieht sav. from jist nothin'; a little
ule shoat, not worth over two dollars
was stole by sombodv; then somebody
had Bombody arrested about it; then
that fellow that had him arrested was
thot, and so hit went; first one side
and then the other lost a man. Hit
weren't intended that a woman should
be killed, and bit weren't done by my
orders. I reckin that broke hit np,
and hit was about time, too, I reckin."
He spoke with his eyes shut tightly
and it looked as though remorse was
gnawing him and that he was all the
harder gnawing at the pig bone.
There will not be room to repeat
much of what he said, although it
was all interesting, but what attract
( Written for the Independent)
The McNairy Pioneers
Yea, I've seen the lieaty pictures of MeNairy'a pioneers,
A'nd they bring back memories to me; tender thoughts too deep (or tears;
Memories of the good old neighbors gone to their eternal home, -While
upon this troubled planet still a stranger I must roam.
Memories of the town of l'urdy, which unto tny childish eyes
Seemed a city full of castles towering upward to the skits;
Thoughts of summer time and mother, in the woods of Tennessee,
And the days of happy childhood that shall not return to me.
See Tab Shull In shirt sleeves sitting In the court-house evening shade,
Hear him, round red face all smiling, telling of Bob Damron's raid;
Everybody knew and liked him, but his friends, like him, are gone,
Where we too erelong shall follow disappearing one by one.
See our good friend, Dr. Kindle, with his drug case black and grim,
JJurrying where some patient sufferer waitied anxiously for him. -Long
since, with the Good Physician our kind doctor went to stay,
But we whom he knew as children, name him lovingly to-day.
See the sheriff, tall Bill Jopling, biting at his fragrant plug;
Ah, when Bill was there, old l'urdy was no place for thief or thug!
Hear the lawyers and the judges try some long-forgotten case
Of that cosy little court-house not one stone is now in place. ' '
See the busy, cheerful women gather lor a quilting-bee,
While the men are out log-rolling how it all conies back to me
llow they cooked that glorious dinner, and how everyone did eat,
Ties and dumpling, biscuit, cornbread, custard, seven kinds of meat!
When you talk of old McNairy and its folks of other years,
Dou't forget the wives and mothers noble women pioneers!
All are men in Beaty's pictures, but the women did their share:
Bore th6 children, cooked the victuals, kept the house with tender care.
Carded wool and cotton; fcpun them; wove them on a hand-made loom;
Sewed the garments, sheets and bed-quilts, carpeted the living room,
And with bark of wild white walnut dyed that wool and cotton yarn;
Made their soap, with lye in kettles from the hoppers by the barn.
Visited a sorrowing neighbor, helped her with her work, and then
Tended their own crying babies, fed their tired and hungry men;
Walked the path of peaca and virtue that their good ancestors trod;
Prayed, and strovj to ksep their children in the path that leads to God.
Fortune bag not smiled upon me; of no riches I can boast,
' But that people's blood is in me; and I drink a temperance toast
To the memory of Old Purdy may it shine across the years-"-And
I'm proud that I descended from McNuiry's Pioneers.
SIGMA,
Nirgends, May 8, 1916.
ed me most was his remarks about
hunting bears. Devil Anse was known
to have tracked bears for more than
thirty miles over the rocky hills with
out a dog. I asked bim bow he could
do it. Then he made a remark show
ing his deep insight into nature.
"Well, you see, bears is like men;
they won't generally climb over a hill
when they can find a low gap. I
knowed the ground the bear would
walk over the easiest he could find,
and that is the way I run him down."
He said that one day some boys tried
to fool him by taking a dead coon's
feet and making tracks in the mud by
a creek. He did not like the looks
of the tracks, some way, and tried
his dog on them. When he saw that
the dog paid no attention- to the
tracks, he knew it was a trick. One
of bis nephews murdered a Syrian
peddler, and was foolish enough to
parade around in clothes taken from
the dead ' man's pack. Devil Anse
trailed the boy from Logan court
house to Dolorme station on the Tug
river, 35 miles, but the boy escaped
into Kentucky, and Devil Anse knew
it was as much as his own life was
worth to go over there, so he trailed
the fellow no further, but the boy
was afterwards caught. In parting,
Devil Anse, told me that he was very
sorry for the feud, and if he could
see the head of the McCoy faction, he
would be glad to shake hands and call
it square. I saw old Kan McCoy a
week or two later, and delivered the
message of Devil Anse to him. The
old man fixed his one fiery eye on me,
and slowly said: "If Devil Anse wants
to settle up, let him come over here
and show himself to the courts.
When they get through "with him, if
there is anything left of him, we can
talk about a compromise." It was
ke Artemus Ward, the famous
humorist, said about an Indian he
met once. The Indian said in part
ing: "Me heap glad to meet you. Me
see you agin on the happy hunting
grounds. Artemus said: "If we do,
there'll be a fight."
At Williamson, Mingo county. West
Virginia, a little town on the Tug
river, there were a number of saloons,
and slot machines for gambling,
Since then whisky has been abolished
from the state, and the town has
grown wonderfully. I stayed one
night with a family across the river
in Kentucky, where there was a pret
ty girl named Ida. That was in Pike
county. I wrote a piece of impromptu
verse for her,, which I afterwards
heard peoplo repeating in the county
very poor stuff it was, as you will
see:
A Pike county maiden named Ida ' '
Had a bean who was fond of hard cider ;
Of the cider he smelt
Till quite tipsy she felt
Whenever he sat down beside her, j '
This maid of Pike county, Kentucky,
Considered that life would be lucky '
In a cabin so snug '
Just over the Tug, ' ' ; l
For he called her his darling, his ducky.
Said he: Come list to my lingo,'
Let us fly to the mountains of Mingo;
You shall sing and shall play,
And shall dance all the day.
And never wash dishes) by Jingo 1
They were married according to wishes,
And are living on talers and fishes;
They have nothing to carve
. And are likely to starve,
And that's why she doesn't wash dishes
In conclusion, it is proper to say
that never, in all my travels, was I
ever better treated than I was by
these mountaineers. One night I got
off at Vivian station, on the Norfolk
& Western; it was midnight; I' knew
of no place to sleep, A portly gen
tleman came up to me, learned who I
was, and told me to follow him. For
half a mile we walked over the rocks,
lighted by a lantern, till we reached
a tniner's cabin, where I got a bed for
the rest of the night. The gentleman
who went out of his way to help me,
was Dr. Hatfield, a nephew of the re
doubtable Devil Anse, and now gov
ernor of West Virginia. He was the
most noted surgeon in that country,
and a man of high intelligence, al
though neither his father ncr his un
cle could read or write.
Lindsay S. Perkins.
Fire and Tornaiii Insurance
None but reliable comp mies i presented. All clauses of
insurable property writtea, at ti; lowest rates obtainable.
Special low rates on residences, and also have very deslra
- ble contract on farm property. AH Inquiries will recejva
PROMPT ATTENTION .
ALBERT GLLESPIE, Agent v ' Selmer. Tin.
This Is the Sort of
fit You Get .
At GISH'S
The Trousers fit you smoothly around the waist, and hang
true to form from hip to heel,
The Vest, unruffled and serene, lies flat like an outer
layer of your original self.
And then comes the Coat most important because
the most difficult problem of the entire Suit. You slip
into it then the Coat slips to you.
Men's Suits . , . $10.00 to $25.00
Men's $8.50 Palm Beach Suits at 6.45
A new Spring line of Men's Odd Trousers ready today
at $3.00 to $5.00 the Pair
FOR WOMEN
We offer 200 pair of $4.00 Tan Slippers, many
styles, at the pair.
25c Colored Batiste, Lawns and Tissues, at the
yard ;; : .
$1.95
15c
Chas. H. Oish
(gj gag gag gag gag gag gag gag gag gag gag gagGP
W JACK KERBY.
EARL INGRAM.
KERBY & INGRAM
TUBULAR WELL DRILLERS
-AND DEALERS IN-
Farm Water Svslems
ELECTRIC LIGHT PUNTS FOR PRIVATE HOMES
Fairbanks-Morse and Southern .
Gasoline and Coal Oil Engines -
WE GIVE YOU A SQUARE DEAL
PHONE 26, BETHEL SPRINGS, TENNESSEE
Q LrsrsJ C (3 LrstJ LjniI LiaJ LEaJ QaJ cyaJ risjaJ DsjJ
j gag gag gag pg res r&m &m rg&n rel fBffil (
RE
and Summer Heat will not affect you if you wear
one of our nobby new suits of
"Summacool", Mohair Palm Beach or
Silk Poplin
You cannot afford to swelter from the summer sun,
or go half clad when you can look neat and dressy
and feel cool and comfortable.
Price of Suits $6.00 to $12.50
Come in and let us show them to you.
SelmerMercantileCompany
v ;
I
t i
1 A
X"
S
t. 4
if ; j
I
r
I
