DAILY TIMES
THE
ARM
VOL. XX NO. 67.
UAHRE, VERMONT, FJUDAYV JUNES 2, 1916.
l'ltlCE, ONE CENT.
B
E
MANY WARSHIPS
ON BOTH SIDES
.LOST IN
BATTLE
IN NO'HURRY
TO MAKE REPLY
Administration Will Take a
Week or More to An
swer Carranza
German Admiralty Names Five British
Vessels of the First Class as Being
Sunk in Great Naval Battle, Added
to Which is One Small Cruiser and
Several Torpedo Boats.
CLASH WAS KEPT UP
ALL THROUGH NIGHT
Germans Admit Loss of Three Ships
Names of Which Are Given, and
Also Some Torpedo Boats But Assert
the Engagement Was Favorable to
Themselves
Berlin, by wireless, June 2. The German admiralty announced
to-day that the German high sea fleet on May 31 encountered a
British fighting fleet, in which the engagement was favorable to
the Germans. The battle continued all night
It is announced that the large British battleship Warsprite and
the battle cruisers Queen Mary and Indefatigable and two armored
cruisers were destroyed. It is also reported that a small British
cruiser and a number of torpedo boat destroyers were sunk.
The admiralty statement also declared that the British battle
ship Marlborough was hit by a torpedo, this being confirmed by
prisoners rescued. Several German ships rescued parts of the
crews, including two men of the Indefatigable, who were the only
survivors from that ship.
The small German cruiser"Weisbaden was sunk by gunfire, and
the Pommern was sent to the bottom by a torpedo. The fate of
the Fruenlob is not known, and some torpedo boats did not return.
The German high sea fleet, the statement adds, returned to port
J une 1. '
FRENCH REGAINED
SOME GROUND
NEAR CAURETTE
Heavy Fighting During Night Resulted
in Some Progress Against the Invad
ers Heavy Artillery Engage
ment Between Thiaumont
Farm and Vaux.
Paris, June 2. In the course of heavy
fighting on the Verdun front, which con
tinued through the night, the French
progressed slightly south of Caurette
wood, the war office announced to-day.
The struggle between Thiaumont farm
and Vaux, east of the Meuse, was de
scribed as extremely violent. The ar
tillery action on both sides was excep
tionally heavy throughout yesterjay and
last night. Aside from the Verdita fight
ing the night passed quietly along the
front. j
Germans Penetrated First Line Trench.
The official statement issued lant night
told of a slight Gorman success between
Fort Douauniont and Vaux pond. The
communication was as follows:
"On the left bank of the Meuse there
was an intermittent bombardment, in the
region of the Avocourt wood and Le
M rt Homme.
"On the right bank after a very vio
lent artillery preparation the enemy at
tracked our positions from the Thiau
mont farm as far as Vaux. After sev
era! fruitless assaults the enemy suc
ceeded in penetrating our trenchea of the
first line between Fort Douauniont and
Vaux pond. Everywhere else tie Ger
man attacks were broken by tha fire of
our machine guns which caused heavy
Josses to the enemy.
"There was less artillery activity on
the re-t of the front."
Air Raid on Bax-Ie-Duc.
Another official war communication is
sued last night said:
"This afternoon a group of German
aeroplanes diopwd several bojibe on
the open town of Rar-le-Duo. Eighteen
if the civilian population were killed of
whom two were women and four chil
dren. Twenty-five ierson were wound
ed, among whom were six women and 11
c hil l:vn.
"An axiatik. attacked by one of our
Hetrj i.i;jc?, wss compelled to land in
our line south of Rcrncourt in the re
gion of Tmil. The two enemy aviators
were made prisoner."
mittee room of the House prepared to
make a statement on the conduct of the
war and to reply to his questioners, lie
faced some 200 members, including what
are known as "ginger" groups, composed
of men who demand a more vigoron
prosecution of the war. The public- was
excluded and the whole Westminster
place was shut off, to avoid the leakage
of any secret information which might
be elicited.
THREATENING NOTE
IS RESENTED
Pershing Said to Have Had
Very Satisfactory Talk
with Gen. Gavira
Washington, D. C, June 2. A week
or more' will be taken by administration
officials in replying to Carranza's note
threatening war if the AnWiean troops
are not withdrawn from Mexico, it was
said to-day. President WiUon is away
ani .no active preparations are being
made to draw up an answer.
Army ofliecrs are looking for a report
from General Pershing on his conference
yesterday at Oolonia Dublin with Gen
eral Gavira when eo-operation of troop
movements was thought to have been
described. General Pershing has described
the meeting as very satisfactory.
General Funston reported to day that
20,000 Carranza troops are mobilized near
Chihuahua City, being disposed appar
ently for an active campaign against
the bandits over territory extending for
j00 miles from Madero to Oiinaia." He
feels no uneasiness over the number,
Secretary of War Baker reported. Gen-
oral Trevino, commanding the Chiliua
hua City forces, has ordered all foreign-
rs to be treated with consideration.
BRANDEIS WINS
FINAL VICTORY
BY 47-22 VOTE
ACTIVITY AT VIMY RIDGE.
Artillery Firing at Times Became In
tense, Says British Report.
London, June 2. The British official
statement issued at midnight reads:
"Our aeroplanes yesterday had a long
running right with three hostile ma
chines. One of the latter was driven
down. One of ours is missing.
'During the night hostile aircraft
dropped eight bombs on Popcringhe with
out damage.
Throughout the dav there was con
tinuous and heavy shelling by the Brit
ish and German guns of all calibres in
the neighborhood of Vimy ridge, the Are
often becoming intense. The artillery
activity extended to a minor degree in
the direction of Loos, Ypres and the river
Somme.
"The waa some mining in the vicinity
of Loos at the rentrant of our trench
line just north of the Somme.
"Except for ordinary trench activity
there was no infantry engagement in
the past 24 hours."
AUSTRIANS AT VERDUN.
Several Thousands Said to Be Aiding the
Germans.
Paris, June 2. Several thousand Aus
trian troops have been observed among
reinforcements brought to the vicinity of
Houaumont.
Among militarr observers here this is
believed to indicate that German v has
insisted that Austria divide her effec
tives in aid of the Germans, in spite of
the fact that an Austrian offensive is
being piessed against Italy.
Boston Lawyer is the First Jew to Oc
cupy Seat with United States Su
preme Court Vote of Senate
Followed Nearly Party
Lines.
Washington, D. C, June 2. The nomi-
ation ot Louis I). lirandem of Boston
to the supreme court to succeed the late
foseph Rucker lamar, was continued bv
the Senate yesterday by a vote of 47 to
the vote, taken without debate.
ended une of the bitterest contests ever
aged against a presidential nominee.
Mr. Brandeis will be the first Jew to oc-
upy a seat on the supreme benrfi.
Only on Democrat, Senator New-
lands, voted against confirmation. Three
Republicans, Senators LaFollette, Xor-
s and Poindexter, voted with the Demo
cratic majority, and Senators Gronna
and Clapp would have done so. but were
paired with Senators Borah and Ken von.
The negative vote of Senator Newlands
as a complete surprise to the Senate
nd the Nevada senator, recognizing that
is action had aroused comment, later
ade public a formal explanation.
I have a high admiration for Mr.
Brandeis as a publicist and propagandist
of distinction, saul Senator New-lands.
"I do not regard him as a man of judi
cial temperament, and for that reason I
have voted against his confirmation."
Throughout the fight President Wilson
stood firmly behind his nominee, never
wavering even when it seemed certain
that an unfavorable report w;ould be re
turned by the Senate judiciary commit
tee. Before the committee voted he
wrote a letter to Chairman Culberson,
strongly urging prompt and favorable ac
tion. The nomination of Mr. Brandeis was
sefifto the Senate January 28. It was
referred to the judiciary committee and
immediately a flood of protests against
confirmation and memorials in favor
thereof began to pour in. i
A sub-committee consisting of Senators
Chilton, Fleteiher. Walsh, Cummins and
Works were appointed to report on the
nomination. It adopted the unusual
course of holding public hearings. Clif
ford 1 home, railroad commissioner of
Iowa, was the first witness, protesting
against confirmation on the ground that
Mr. Brandeis had been guilty of unpro
fessional conduct in handling the five
per cent rate advance before the inter
state commerce commission. Sidney W.
Winslow, president of the United Shoe
Machinery company, testified that Mr.
Brandeis hud been guilty of unprofes
sional conduct in relation to his com
pany, and shortly thereafter Austen G.
BANQUET WAS PLEASING.
Presbyterian Bible Class Observed An
nual Custom Last Evening.
The annual banquet of the Presbyte
rian "Bible class wan held in the vestry
of the church last evening when some 30
mcmliers sat down to one of the most
dclicioiife spread yet "served. The. class
banquet haa come to be one of the most
enjoyahlo social functions of ihe year
and last nights laffair was, as successful
as in past year. 1 he banquet was pre
pared and served by the ladies' auxiliary
and those who partook of the tasty
dishes were loud in their praise for the
work which the ladies so well accom
plished,
At one end of the hall an officers table
had been assigned to tha officers of the
class and the guests of the evening, Rev.
and Mrs. S. F. lilomfiold of Bethany
church, Montpclier. The following was
the menu as served: Grape fruit, pickles,
olives, chicken pie, vegetable salad, riced
potatoes, brown gravy,; hot rolls, ice
cream, assorted cake, and coffee.
When the Iwnqucting was over Miss
Ruth Milne, president of the class, re
viewed interestingly the history of the
class, bringing out the pleasant occasions.
She then introduced the speaker of the
evening, Rev. .Mr. Blomricld. His re
marks were very interesting and con
tained points well worth heeding. The
speaker divided his talk into three lines
of thought. He impressed on his hearers
the, need ot being able to live with people
and people able to live with us, explain
ing how disagreableness oftentimes eep
arated u man from civilization. Then he
advised young people to-rave the quality
known as sticktoitiveness, to he able to
stick to a thing until it is done and done
well. This he pointed out to be the rea
son for great men's success. His last
thought had to do with idealism. There
comes a time in everyone's life when he
looks forward to some, attainment, when
he makes some resolve to be or do some
thing. It is at this (tine we ee our fu
ture wnd lay plans for a successful or for
a useless life.
During his discourse the speaker was
given the closest of attention and the
applause which followed the remarks
foretold the appreciation of the class,
Rev. Mr. Crossland was called on for
few remarks and a social hour then fol
lowed, this closing the evening' event.
CLOUDBURSTS
CAUSE WRECKS
ANOTHER TALE
OF LOW FINANCES
BY B.&M. T.&P.CO
C. R. & P. R. R. Passenger
Train Was Ditched at
Packard, Iowa v
WABASH R. R. FLYER
General Manager Sands Told Barre City
Council That His Company Is Not Able
. to Fay Proportionate Share of Pro
posed Street Paving Job and
Would Protest Assessment
for Bridge Construction.
The city council, in the favorite indoor
pastime of bringing the intercity trac
tion people to book, indulged in it per
ennial specialty at city hall Thursday
afternoon whfn Gennral Aliinflrrn. If S
AT SAUNEMIN, ILL. Sands of Boston and the B. & M. T. & P,
Go's local superintendent, H. D. Larra
oee, were callca in for a conference
Bringing the traction company to book
in Latter Wreck a Number v: . a cry y0 on
" l"ii vi mv uuiiey umciHis ami yes
terday's get-together was no exception
to the time-honored rule. Messrs. Sands
and Iarrabce (the former did most of the
talking), merely showed the city fathers
the lining of Uieir pockets and then, for
all it muttered to them, the conference
might have ended. It didn't, because the
council hasn't acquired such a careless
of Persons Were In
jured, One Fatally
WOMAN'S BURNS FATaL.
Mrs.
V. V. Blackmer of New Haven Was
Caught is Explosion.
Xew Haven, June 2.-Mrs. V. Vn Black
mer, who on I ueaday morning was se
verely burned bv the explosion of an al
cohol stove, died at her home here early
yesterday morning from burns received,
her legs being burned to the waist and
one arm to the elbow. She was 71 years
of age and is survived by a husband, who
is in feeble health, and one sister, Mrs.
Martha V. IVmglas, of Minneapolis,
Minn. Mrs. Blatkmer was a former .Mid
lleburv woman. The funeral will be
leld at her home Saturday afternoon
and burial will be beside her first hus
band, 1). W. ??ash,,m the New Haven
Mills cemetery.
MONTPELIER
Shriners Are Gathering for Their Cere
monial.
The regular meeting of Mount Sinai
temple is to be held at Montpclier this
afternoon and evening and Shriners from
throughout the state arc expected to
gather to greet Illustrious Imperial Po
tentate J. Putnam Stevens. The shrine
band will escort the distinguished guest
from the hotel to the city hall and the
band will also render a concert. A ban
quet will be held at 6 o'clock, followed
by a ceremonial session.
Waterloo, Iowa, June 2. A north
bound passencer train. No. 10. on the
Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific railroad, -habit of adjourning without an inning or
was wrecked at Packard. Iowa, five miles tw of discussion.
north of here early this morning. The Briefly, Mr. Sands explained that an
train ran into a washout resulting from empty exchequer could not be expected
a miniature cloudburst last night. Ac- w count as a lactor in a paving project
cording to officials of the railroad, no such as is planned for South Main street
one was killed but several were in- tnis summer. Much less could the coun
jured. , I cil expect any pecuniary aid from a com
Chicago, June 2. A tornado near pany that has outstanding obligations
Saunemin, Illinois, early this morning ' something lilce $u6,000 that it can
caused the derailment of the Chicago- not meet. Tho general manager stated
St. Louis I Iyer on the Wabash railroad, straight out that the company realized
injuring a number of persons, one of that its failure to participate in the pa v.
whom was said to be fatally hurt. "g project will abrogate the franchise
agreement made wjien the road was
53 TO GRADUATE K!!i.;p"rij,:l6t?ai',:!
K:!0!, but ,offered ,te"?'.iv";
jib uiu aa jar ua lu nuggcni, limb
10-cent fare between cities, a twenty
minute service from 11 o'clock a. m. un
til 8 p. m., with a forty-minute service
at other times might have a tendency to
restore the road to popular favor and
put the company in a position to liqui
date a part, at least, of its indebtness.
When asked by Alderman Healy if he
Commencement Exercises To Be Held
Next Week Will Open. With. Prize
Speaking Contest Tuesday Evening
Other Events of the Week.
The commencement exercises at Spauld
ing high school will be held next week, could guarantee a payment on the pav
ing contract it the company was per
and the various events will be held as
follows:
1 rize speaking contest, liarre opera
house, Tuesday evening, June 6.
Alumni concert and ball, Spaulding as
eniblv hall, Wednesday evening, June
Class day, opera house, Thursday aft
ernoon, .(une o
Alumni banquet. Hotel Barre, Thurs
day evening, June 8
Graduation exercises, opera house, Fri
day evening, June P.
mittcd to adopt the suggested schedule,
Mr. Sands replied in the negative. Al
derman Healy, then proposed that the
city, so far as the franchise will author
ize, permit the company to operate cars
on any schedule (deemed feasible for a
year. At this juncture it was intimated
that the company had followed its own
preference in that matter for more than
a year.
In closing, Mr, Sands quoted figures
ENTHUSIASM
DOMINATED
At Annual Meeting of Wash
ington County Farm
Bureau in Barre
LARGE GATHERING
OF MEMBERS
Mark Moody of W ,cvlury
Was Elected dent
for Ens Year "
The program for the prize speaking showinz that cars over the interurban
contest was announced to-day as follows: line last vear averaged eight pasaengers
The Parson Conremion" Murray Ppr riP- He concluded that, so long as
Charle Ralph OUivcr I the comnanv is w ithout funds and haa
ine iiuie i-nuctnan iarainawm fi1B itv .,iitf. fnllnnr the Ah.
liiaif nciir uiut i i . ... ... ..
"A Call to Individual Rw,n.ibiHt". . .Wade of its best judgment in acting.
Alexander Allen Mortimer I Alderman t.lvason stated the uronosi
T"l t , 11 I ... ' 1
inm ivwiimiTOiK linn an it n nm.i l-orl in i ho nnn, 1 in a
Marion Winifred Anker Z ' " T ' . .
"The Man in the Shadow" Child. words by declaring mat one ot two
Eldon Wesley Ball I courses must be mirsued. that the fran
tapuiln January hti- Ktt-narda -his miif. ha re voire,! nr ihe navino nrn.
Marvuerlte Currier I . 1
Bv Courier" Porter Ject must be abandoned. Mr. Iands had
Richard Crutekshank
WINTER IN RUSSIA.
Stops
KITCHENER CALLED
TO FACE CRITICS
OF WAR OFFICE
Phenomenal Cold Prevails Snow
Street Cars.
Petrograd, via London. June 2. Phe
nomenal cold for this time of the year
prevails throughout Russia. Street cars
at Kazan were stopped bv snow.
Fox, a Xew York attorney, appeared
before the committee as the repreenta
tive of .15 citizens of Boston, headed by
A. Lawrence Lowell, president of Har
vard, and took charge of the opposition.
Then Cnited Mates District Attorney (J.
W. Anderson of Boston, at the request
of the committee. unlert'xk direction of
Kdward A. Harris of Melrose, Mas.,
has arrived in the city to assume his
duties as ofliee maiuiger of the Tenney
company, succeeding the late Walter If.
Phillips, Mr. Harris has been office man
ager at Maiden for the past rive rears.
.lohn I nderhill, manager of the John
H. Nelson Contruction t o. of this city
which has the contract for the erection
of the home for feeble-minded at Bran
don, left this nHirning for that town to
superintend the preliminary work.
the funeral ot Mrs.JInrv Kllen Mee,
who died suddenly Tuesday night, was
held at 0 o'clock this morning from St.
Augustine s church. Rev. P. ,1. Ixmg offi
ciating. Burial was in the Catholic ceme
tery.
Mr. and Mrs. Fred Cear and child of
t-.at stite street have returned from a
visit with relatives in Boston.
Miss Doris Farrar. who has been visit
ing Mr. and Mrs. Waldo H. Farrar of
College street, having been called to the
city by the death of Mrs. Arabella Hol-
den. returned this morning to her home
in Ixiston.
Robert Fisher of Burlington, who has
been visiting his wife, who is recovering
from an operation performed last winter.
jleft this morning for Randolph on bus-
mess.
Rollo C. Reynolds of the educational
department left to-day for New York
City, where he will meet Mrs. Rcynohls.
who haa been making a two months'
visit with relatives in Philadelphia.
Mrs. Gertrude M. I.eland left lat even-
TALK OF THE TOWN
Those Who Demand More Vigorous Pros
ecution of the War Heckled the Sec
retary for War Behind
Cosed Doers.
Ijondon. June 2. Karl Kitchener hd
t'vday what was fir him a unwpie ex-T-erien.-e
of heisitf h" kled by parliament
ary criti.s f tre war ofVxe, eoirplyirg
w th a f n ie n-.s.ie in b behalf in the
)iu of ti.mm"in by Parliamentary
I rtdrr Srtarr f-r War Harold J. Ten
nan, in rer'ee t e-mplaints fr
rnerr.V" that thr lad had to rpprr
tt ir t.i ie-!, a t-'e wi-rtary fur war.
Te famcus frml wert to tie com-
O. Genairn went to Northfield this
morning to visit friend for a few days.
Among the peopi (eating town to
day was Loretti Va!e-io, who has e.
cured work at Manchester, N. If.
Mr. H. P. llinman of Oranee (rect
the case for those favoring confirmation, j ing for Banff. A!lerta. Canada, where she
In all 47 witnesses were fieard and; will make tin indefinite viit with rela-l-Vlfl
pages of testimony t;iken. William jtivea.
H. Taft, Simeon E. Baldwin. Francis Paul fMtes, son of Coy. C. W. Gates,
Rawle. .1.n.eph H. Choate, Klihu Root, ; was a visitor in the city to-day on -his
Moorficld Storey and Peter W. Meldrim, :ay home from Xorthtield. where he took
all former presidents of the American jexaminationa yesterday for a lieutenancy
Bar association, wrote protests to theiin the Vermont National liuard.
committee airaint confirmation, and j in probate court tnis torenoon the will
Charles W. K.liot. president emeritus of 'of Philena Mavvilte. sometime known as
The Heart of Old Hickory" Dromgoole
l.rorKina Maeaulay
Russia and the Jews" Stafford
Deane Chandler Davm
The Bear Story" Riley
Madeline Isicholaon Macdonald
Music will be furnitdied by the high
school glee club.
Principal Jckson of the high school
nnouneed to-day that the improvement
prize had been awarded to Leonard Pal
las of Barrp Town. This award is made
for growth in scholarship, taking into
consideration the school preparation be
fore high school entrance,- nd also for
manliness. During Monday, Tuesday and
Wednesday of next week examinations
are to be held in the high- school. The
graduating clas numbers 53 young men
and young women.
TALK OF THE TOWN
Harvard, and manv others
favor of confirmation.
wrote in
TRANSFER AT SOUTH RYEGATE.
Property of Ryegate Light & Power Co.
Bought By Vermont P. U. Corporation.
I ' Montpelier &
in the Cranite
Wednesday eening. young people a
ssion , :.i". prayer ami praie. net. n.
leu mis norm io make a lew rtajs visitlLiKbt 4 Power Co. changed hands Thur- The accident
with relatives in Canaan. X. H. ,jun i havine been boucht bv the . ;,. j. .
it- .-.... ...... ii. i i:iP ermont mime i innies
city ye;erday from VtaitshrM.
i ' ," i
ne i;a men on a r-r a nur-e nr I He i Thomas S"ith
past tnree weeks. meeting of the Barre K. F. C. will fo.ee
. f r t . ... i . i.. . ...... .. . .. . i r
.mis. j. .m. wni hm rriurne.1 j,i nnr h 1 in t tif NKiimn on Mliirnr. . i:n
tree! yard aroiiW from its lethargy a j Jv jOM.pj, I'jani
dray hore tethered on North Main street j ' Th,lr.tlav niornm
K. Swallow; i:4.V business and reports;
music: 8:15. address. "Youth." Rer.
t.eorpe 1 1. l'Uld. I '. 11.; ;4o. aUdres,
Mainiille. lste of Barre, w proven and
Karle R. Iais of Barre was appointed
ejecutor.
lohn Mi Donald, former member of the
pidice force, who was arrerely injured
several weeks ai?o a Fitrhbtiru. Ma..
!hile employed as a brakeman on the
(Boston A Msiiie rai!reid. arriieit in Ihe
South Kvegate. June 2. ine Kyecte r,tv thin .forenoon to ii: li
. rsn-ed by rinders pet- K'U
ff. i that I e failed t
!-mik.m. . hrit-e and was mii.mi n! Iv i re H In siee.i. i nr animai w as on on a .- ,,.
i i . : T f f .. . . t I' . . . i . . ... ' , . .. i . , I - -
-'"r ,n(r pruurni ib i. .n. f m i.iiiuinu. l.no k-.1 from t lie I m el fe tram. Itangeni lip nnsi mri, i nree mm, ii
lir the Tin,.,. ..-r.r 'n,..; ;rt.n,l. csave.t the cii!omarv
r.ev. ( Varies A. Bold: b
John P. Corcoran of Short street has
resumed his duties in the postoffiee, after
inassing several days in Swanton, Enos
btirg Falls and St. Alhans, having at
tended the annual meeting of the state
postal clerks in the latter place Memorial
lay.
Negotiations for the transfer of the
wood yards owned by the estate of A. S.
Martin in North Barre, Burnhama metid-
ow and South Barre are in progress. It
is understood that two Barre dealers con
nected with the coal and wood trade are
interested in the transaction. H. O.
Woodruff is administrator of the estate.
A final agreement with the Barre Citi
zens bend haa been held up bv the spe
cial aldermanic committee appointed by
Mavor l.ordon pending the petition of
Christopher Columbus hand members for
share of the $1,000 that is yearly di
verted to the older band men for the mu
sic they furnish in City park.
Kfforts.on the part of the aldermanic
lighting committee to alleviate the be-1
nurhted conditions in Depot square are
held in abeyance, pending the discovery
hat the city does not own that section
of the square where a new high-power
iirht had been projected. It is said that
co-operation on the part of the two rail
roads will be necessary before the square
can be adequately lighted.
Barre Shriners in number went to the
capital this afternoon to participate in
he special meeting of Mount Sinai tem
ple, which was to begin with a business
meeting in armory hall at 4 o'clock. The
eremonial following the banquet will be
held in the eitv hall. The imperial po
tentate,' .1. Putnam Stevens, is to be pres
ent to review the work. l iana will be
completed for the Fourth of duly cele
bration of Arab patrol, which is to be
held at Intercity park.
A t-hrill toot from i
Wells River locomotive
stated previously that the company does
not question "tin council's right to re
voke the franchise should the company
fail to pay its share of the paving bill,
but intimated that any attempt to
charge for bridge building would be tak
en up with the public service commis
sion. Alderman Bruce questioned the
officials at length and then they depart
ed. Several opinions were expressed as
to whether the B. & "M. T. & P. Co. is
anxious to have the road go into the
hands of a receiver.
Alderman Reynolds, near the close of
the meeting, suggested that adverse ac
tion on the bonding proposition at the
special city meeting next week might
act as an estoppel on further strictures
on the traction company. Before ad
journment the street committee and city
attorney were instructed to inquire into
the legal procedure that must be fol
lowed in dealing with the traction com
pany.
109TH ANNUAL MEETING
Of Central Baptist Association Meets
with Barre Church June 6-8.
The 109th annual meeting of the Yer-
mont Central Baptist association will he
held with the Barre church dune 6 to 8.
The first session will open at 7:30
Tuesday evening, with the following pro
gram: Prayer and upraise. Rev. .1. C.
Mitchell; 7:45, organization of associa
tion, appointment of committees; words
of welcome, pastor of, entertaining
church ; response. Rev. I. H. Bern-diet;
music; 8. address. Rev. P. H. J. Lerrigo.
M. D.. 8:30, address, "Slaying the Lion,"
Rev. F. A. Agar; discussion.
Wednesday morning :30. prayer and
praise. Rev. F. I. Sargent; 8:45. church
efficiency conference. "Making Good in
the Local Church." Rev. F. A. Agar; 10,
church letters and business; 11, annual
sermon. The t hureh Symbolized by a
Ship," Rev D. D. dohnson: 11:45. wel
come to new- pastor. Rev. W. A. Davison,
D. D.; publication society, Frederick K.
Pinkham: 12, dinner.
Wednesday afternoon 1 :30, prayer
and praise. Rcw-. W. H. Bishop; 1:45, ad
drew. "Echoes of the Northern Itaptist
Convention," Rev. W. A. Davison. D. D.
Women's missionary session, Mrs. -I. A.
Greenwood presiding; 2:30. addre.
periences in India. Mrs. ( .en rue it.
Brock: 3:30. addrevs. "The Kdncation
of the Negro Girl." Rer. G. W . RifiW;
4:15. address, ".lunior and Sunday School
Work in Relation tn Missions. Mrs.
Frank Carter.
Seventy-five farmers, representative of
the agricultural interests of all Wash-
ngton county, came together in Howland
hall Thursday afternoon for the first an
nual meeting of the farm bureau, the
thriving county organization which had
its inception in Barre last February. If
the attendance and the interest manifest
ed in the proceedings may be taken as an
earnest of what is in store for the bu
reau, it future as an adjunct of unlimit
ed possibilities for the farming interest
of the county is well assured. The meet-
ng was called to order shortly before 2
o'clock by F. C. Bancroft of Barre Town,
nd a number of important matters were
discussed before the eloction of officers
took place.
Ihe report of Fortis If. Abbott, the
county adviser, covered the bureau op
erations since April 1 and coutituted an
lluminating resume of what has been ac-'
complished in two months. Mr. Abbott
Iso took occasion to outline some of the
lans projected for the future and sought
to impress upon the members of the bu
reau the importance of working toeether
for a common end. The membership ros
ter is growing daily and it is predicted
that before the summer is over, the in-
uence of the bureau will be felt in the
remotest corner of the county.
On a motion from the tloor the rules
of the meeting were suspended for a few-
moments to permit James B. Estee, a
Montpelier man, to speak. Mr. Estee
said he was the president of the Mont
pelier Board of Trade and bespoke for the
oureau tne. Hearty co-operation of that
organization. His talk contained sugges
tions as to how' the bureau might benefit
by relying upon the Board of Trade at
the capital for support and assistance in
various ways. A second motion from
the floor empowered the executive com
mittee to add the committee on market
ing and buying to the li-st of standing
committees compiled when the bureau
ws organized. Informal talks featured
an interesting open forum preceding "the
election of officers and many apt sugges
tions w-ere noted for future reference.
Uppermost in the minds of those who
spoke, it seemed, was the belief that the
county bureau is here to stay and that
it has an important part to play in work
ing out the agricultural destinies of the N
towns comprising the county.
tomplete harmon' prevailed when the
time came for selecting officers to serve
in 1016-1917 and the followina slate was
ratified: President, Mark Moody of Wa
ferbury; vice-president, C. A. Badzer of
East Montpelier; secretary and treasur
er, Frank G. Howland of Barre; execu
tive committee, president, vice-president
and secretary-treasurer ex -officio. F. C.
Bancroft of Barre Town. W. I. Abbott of
CUbot. D. R. Bisbee of Waitsfield, B. A.
Denny of Xorthtield and H. .1. Dodge of
nerlin.
Advisory council: Philip Shonio of
Duxbury, Carroll Lamb of East Calais,
B. E. Sanders of West Calais. G. M. .lones
of Waitsfield, George Rumney of Middle
sex, Wesley Childs of Middlesex, Fred
Strong of East Montpelier. Lewis Coburn
of East Montpelier, M. ,1. Corliss of Ber
lin, Ira Buck of West Berlin, Dean Town
of Pluinfield, C. M. Edson of Plainfleld,
H. M. Farnham of Montpelier, C. W. Pet
sons of Barre Town, F. R. Northrop of
Bjrre Town,. Dr. W. I Wasson of YVa
terbury, tarroll C. Robinson of Water
bury Center.' M. R. Childs of Moretown,
George Sleeper of Moretown. Dan Mc
Laughlin of Fayston, Sam Strong of
North Favston. C. M. Ladd of Worcester,
E. C. Hoa'th of Warren. E. M. Turner of
Warren. W. F. Shepard of Bnrre. Xorth
field. Woodbury and Marshtield council
members are to be named later. Adjourn
ment was taken around 5 o'clock, subject
to the call of the president.
ONCE LIVED IN BARRE.
James Bardelli Died in Hardwick at Ag
of 50.
dames Bardelli, a formed resident of
Barre, died early this week in Hardwick
after a short illness with pneumonia.
The funeral is to be held at Hardwick
Saturday afternoon at 2 o'clock.
Mr. Bardelli was born in Bernatc,
Italy, in ISM and was, therefore, 50
years of age. He served three years in
the Italian army and then came to th
Cnited States, first hvating in Hallo
well, Me. Then he came to Barre and
Ex- later went to. Hardwick. where he was
engaged as a granite carver. He leave
his wife. Rosa, and three children, name
ly. Mrs. L. Zeoi-hinelli. Eva and Dorothy
Bardelli; also the following brother and,
sisters: Mrs. O. Granai, Mrs. G. Miani,
Edward Bardelli of Barre, Mrs. F. Com
olli of Milford. N. H.. Mrs. M. Yiscontini
of hicaco and Mrs. M. Ambrvwini of
Hardwick. Ambroeio Bardelli who died
in lUrre on May 2.1 was a brother.
p un1ar i hirl es.
parcn" "lis iwrnmin an.i in- uinn, " ; jnn :30. prajer and praise. Ker. N. C.
oi-eiissinj: me j-mr ei seal muns ... f!; 45. three 2 minute talks .
ith a household nearby, had time to.Th j tV p.d.le School." Rev. S.
re H in siee.i. inr anima. was on on a , k . -The ork of the R hie
' s.-Jinol.' Rev. .T. 11. Thompson: (ri "Ihe
1 1 er
j A roeet.mr of the Barre R. F. C. will ( foe..?.-r. it i a rinsed, mcage-l in f ouri'e that are upr-d to put '(fB,c,: . l.!re.. "Triinng Ulfr."
ne wiii in i ! ni"ii "ii niim . n.iie f... ... ni,.r ,n t re rr. I ral rrmnnl l;re cn ne low fnrrn. mil m ii mnas. i
Vmi'i'id liar, pleaded t'c were t.'t , in this msian-e. Two
r-.nrt l.-t ernni t ' te'epnne rV were barked by the rif-
pace. fi' on
jwor'Vp. Rei. O ar'es
A. Rod.
nnme in mm cut. aner spanning a lew 3. at 7: SO p. m. h.iem- member he pre- nulriw l i.rd on
weeks with h-T in, who lives in Tren-!ent. Business, picnic. Per order presj-ET1,jt v j r fV
ton, .. J. dent. . u . . .. I,...., I- of fl 1.,).!.. the iVirrff swated fn-m one Ar
i. A. A met. wht It the past two years j Mr. and Mrs. W. If. Spracne of t'WIe S We a mark of t' e f;H tn the sfape of jr-f the sireet to tHe ot!r. and the ra.e j Clerks' Nat ice.
has been employed at tHe Palace garage. Jwere visitors at his brother's. Dr. E. G. a b!a-k ee and t'-e t-M tte -A-irt t'.e ! ajrin-t tme did not end nntd the r ty There w.l be a rT';lr net:i
romileted hi dntiea List e.iiit.'. 1. j Sprafrne of Merchant street, to-day. Jnbnj..n'v .r-. s ('ini-l (v t ' , rr e .h.mp w a m he I A M:tpe'!'r bit-Si j R. 1 . 1. P. A.. Vl -Ml. friy
" no'r w-o?k this morning fur Rri.-i-U J .-prrue of N'oew-ch unnersitv will ae-i . !,'". ll.ripv t r. t ! .ni!rr U .a'ir.lat t "e diiTn re'rht-r! -"-l r- Ivi't forj-.t t reri-fer.
li- A'irn, as demosttritr.
inn Mrijr bia fat! hve Iklt aftermxB. am.mrit.rg o ."-- tb'7 ju.i. and lain4 tit tCb
In the fighting around Verdun recently
Char!'- Fasani. formerly of Barre. was
enou-ly wounded and is now convales
cing in a military ho.pital ha-"k of th
Frein h bm s. avrding t.i a letter r
eeied vestenla y by hi mother, Mrs.
Mary bini of l'lkwel street Mr.
Ka-ani left Barre for France !st fall
after d.-cid-na Cut the rcuntry of his
r.e t h's "(.. Soon after
in Frar.'-e he erlisted and a't-
f fwn.vi in t!-e tra-nn-c onrp ne enterei
ia tue KiiKf. Ali'MtrS tfie letter r
; the,.,ir1 Iv Mr, f ,..Tu i'.k-s not conta
at 71 a d-ts ;ied tit-et-t -f t'e ?-"ipc fan's
Per W-lrwid:twn. it I" n't t'lOi.gM that it t
T!tjU
' nativity
