ilffT mf
fnr OS.
11
AX
Vol. 20
EAST JORDAN. MICHIGAN, FRIDAY, JUNE 2, 1916.
No. 23
Schools Close
Next Week
Events of Commencement Week
Are Announced.
The coming week marks the close of
the annual term of the public schools.
The last day of school will be observed
by picnics and parties by most of the
grades and the commencement ex
ercises of the high school will take
place on Thursday and Friday evenings.
In spite of the fact that quite a num
ber of families have lei t the city
the total enrollment of the schools
for the present year has been over 700
and only about f0 less than the largest
enrollment recorded, that of 11)11-12,
when the total was 701. The high
school has had a total enrollment during
the year of 20.J, including the 7th and
Sth grades, with 30 ol the students
coming from the rural districts.
Several innovations have been made
in the high school this year. Courses
have been given in sewing and manual
training, also mechanical drawing and
the course in agriculture has been
extended to include one year more of
work along that line. The instructor
fix agriculture has also been retained
for summer garden work and for corn
club work in the country districts.
A larger number of the teachers than
usual will not return for next year, most
of them going to positions in other cities.
Those leaving are Miss CecileCoulthard
who goes to the Detroit schools, Miss
Mildred Urescher to the Holland school.,
Miss Grace Campbell to Marshall, Miss
Mayme Kelley to a position in Black
River Falls, Wis., Miss Marjorie Chase,
Miss Hazel Cummins, V. E. Wyble to
the principalship of the high school at
L'Anse, Mich., and F. T. Smith.
The following is a list of the students
who will receive their diplomas at the
Commencement exercises next week:
CLASS ROLL
01iet Hartlett Bessie Johuson
Eunice Carr Leanore Kenny
Victor Cross Grace Malpass
Ruth Gregory Vera McMillan
Helen Milliard Sadie Metz
Lelia Hott Xelle Miles
Lemt Johnson Flwyn Sundstedt
Helen Ward
CLASS COLORS-Ulack and Red.
CLASS FLOWFR American Beauty
Rose.
CLASS MOTTO-'To be rather than
to seem."
The events of the week will begin
with the Baccalaureate sermon by Rev.
R. S. Sidebotham at the Presbyterian
church next Sunday evening at 7:30.
The graduating class and the teachers
of the high school w ill attend in a body.
Instead of the usual form of Class
Day Fxercises the class will present a
jihree act comedy entitled "The
Colonel's Maid" at the Temple Theatre
Thursday evening, June Sth. The
public is invited to attend. The fol
lowing is the
CAST OF CHARACTERS
Colonel Robert Rudd Victor Cross
Colonel Richard I5yrd--Elwyn Sundstedt
Marjorie Byrd, daughter of Col. Byrd
Helen Hillhrd
Bob Rudd, son of Col. Rudd Dick
Dicken
Mrs. J. John Carroll, a widow Bessie
Johnson
Julia Carroll, her daughter Helen
Ward
Ned Graydon Xelle Miles
Miss Bedelia Bascom, a lady lawyer
Vera McMillan
Ching Ah Ling, a Chinese cook Bernt
Johnson
On Friday evening several numbers
of the program will be given by mem
bers of the class and the address wilt
be given by Pres. Chas. McKenny of
the State Normal College at Ypsilanti.
The following is arranged for com
mencement night:
PROGRAM
Piano Duet Ruth Gregory, Eunice Carr
Salutatory Olivet B.irtlett
Vocal Solo, "Shubert's Serenade"
v , Leanore Kenny
" ,'aledictory Grace Malpass
Address-DR. CHARLES McKENNY
Presentation of Diplomas Supt. L. I.
Holliday
Class Song written by Lelia Hott and
Sadie Metz.
In Jewish marriages the bride alwayj,
stands at the right hand of the groom.
With every other nation in the world,
it A is reversed.
The difference between a compliment
and flattery depends on whether it if
handed to you or some other person.
You can judge no woman's sense ot
humor by the way she giggles at her
husband's jokes.
REPORT OF
CHARLEVOIX COUNTY
W. C. T. U. CONVENTION
The 25th annual Convention of the
Charlevoix County W. C. T. U. was
held in the M. E. Church at Boyne City
on Wednesday and Thursday, May 24
and 25. Mrs. Allcox of Charlevoix
County President, led all sessions with
her usual calmness and sweetness of
manner. Mrs. P. J. Howard of
Petoskey District President was pres
ent and rendered most efficient help at
all times. The first part of Wednesday
afternoon was occupied with prelimin
ary arrangements, business, etc.
Mrs. Sara Wilkinson led the Memorial
Service for three members who have
passed on: Mrs. H. McCartney of
Charlevoix and Mrs. Demerest and
Mrs. Boice of Boyne City. MissColtrin
gave a fine talk on suffrage which was
appreciated as she has recently return
ed from California. Greetings came
to us from Mrs. A. M. Burdick of Char
levoix and Mrs. Heston of East Jordan,
who were unable to be present. Mrs.
Howard on the topic of 'Reminescences'
showed that all things work for good to
them that love God.
The Resolutions Committee of Mes
dames J. Clemens of East Jordan, and
Sudman of Boyne City being unable to
act, Mesdames Wilkinson of Charlevoix
and Burdick of East Jordan -were ap
pointed in their places. It was sug
gested that each member of the Con
vention who were acquainted with
Mrs. Grigsby of Morrice, Michigan,
send her a post card as a token of our
remembrance.
The evening program after singing
"Onward Christian Soldiers" and De
votionals led by Rev. Duffy of Boyne
City consisted of three minute greet
ings from Dr. Marshall in behalf of the
city, Rev. Gleason for the churches,
Sup't Mcintosh for the schools, Mrs.
Houghton for the Civic League, Mrs.
Furman for the Federation of Woman's
Clubs, Mrs. F. White for the M. E.
Woman's Club and Mrs. Cory for the
local Union, all of whom spoke many
helpful and inspiring words of encour
agement and welcomed the Conven
vention to their hearts and homes.
Mrs. Burdick of East Jordan in a few
well chosen words responded to the
greetings given. Miss May Stewart,
county school commissioner, gave a
very fine address on 'The Reason Why'
which contained some very remarkable
views on why, we should have prohibi
tion. The only regret we have is there
were so few, of the male sex to hear
her convincing arguments. Miss Scott
of Boyne City gave a recitation, 'Patsy's
Three Lost Years.' She impersonated
the teacher and poor little Patsy who
had lost three years on account of
the abuse of a drunken father. Miss
Scott is a born impersonater and held
her audience spell bound during her
recitation. Little Miss Sudman gave a
short recitation entitled "The Kitten
and the Butterfly."
Thursday morning was given over to
business and the reading of two papers
"preparedness" by Mrs. O. F. Root of
Bijyne City convinced us that we should
prepare for prohibition and some of the
lest methods of preparation. Mrs.
Hall of East Jordan gave a well written
paper on "Purity" which contained
many interesting thoughts on the
subject. Good reports were read from
the different reunions of the county.
As this was the Silver Anniversary of
our County Organization, Mrs. Howard
suggested that we make Mrs. Allcox a
Life Member of the W. C. T. U. by the
payment of ten dollars into the state
treasury and it was so voted unamious"
ly by the Convention. Corresponding
Secretary was requested to send letters
of greeting and sympathy to Mesdames
Richardson and Cameron of Norwood,
also a letter of greeting to Mrs. Heston
of East Jordan in appreciation of past
services, who were prevented by sick
ness of attending this Convention.
After noontide prayer by Mrs. Hall of
East Jordan, Charlevoix extended an
invitation to entertain this convention
in 1917. We adjourned to meet at this
place in one year. Boyne City has the
thanks of the delegates for the abun
dant entertainment given them.
Officers elected for next year as fol
lows: President Mrs. Jennie Allcox
Vice President Mrs. Mable Hall
Cor. Secretary Mrs. Sara Wilkinson
Recording Secretary Mrs. Ann Bur
dick Treasurer Mrs. Anna Cory.
Don't borrow trouble; almost any one
will gladly give it to you.
When a man quarrels with his wife
he seldom gets a chance to say any
thing back.
L4N
mm&mSSs
Business and Patriotism
A Nonpartisan Appeal to the Nation
The White House
Washington, April 21, 1916
To the 'Business Men of America:
II
BESPEAK your cordial co-operation in the patri
otic service undertaken by the engineers and chem
ists of this country under the direction of the Indus
trial Preparedness Committee of the Naval Consulting
Board of the United States.
The confidential industrial inventory you are asked to
supply is intended for the exclusive benefit of the War and
Navy Departments and will be used in organizing the indus
trial resources for the public service in national defense.
At my request the American Society of Civil Engineers,
the American Institute of Mining Engineers, the American
Society of Mechanical Engineers, the American Institute of
Electrical Engineers and the American Chemical Society are
gratuitously assisting the Naval Consulting Board in the work of
collecting this data, and I confidently ask your earnest support
in the interest of the people and government of the United
State. Faithfully yours,
COMMITTEE ON INDUSTRIAL PREPAREDNESS OF THE
NAVAL CONSULTING BOARD OF THE UNITED STATES
in co-oirrtion with
The American Sorirty ol Civil En (finrro The American Society of Mechanical Engineer
The American Iniiitute oi Mining Engineer 1 he American Institute ol Electrical Engineer!
1 lie American Chemical Society
Engineering Societies BuOJing
- -v
Advertisement designed by the ASSOCIATED ADVERTISING CLUBS OF Tim
WOULD and published by this newHpaper free.
It's easier for trouble to find your ad
dress than it is for good luck.
Speaking of batters, the buckwheat
brand is as popular as the baseball
kind.
down to the pitiless depths of the river to
seemingly sure
miraculous but it
thrills in store for
motion picture serial
V
r
Tfie
W
A
(Girl and tie (Game
By FRANK 11. SPEARMAN
Mr. Spearman has injected into the story all of the romance
of railroad making from the secret intrigue in the private
offices of the magnate to the nerve-racked but cool-headed
men whose skill drive9 the big iron horses over the steel
rails. Throughout the story there is the spirit of fight, a
struggle for a purpose, with all of the ramifications of the
human tangle in the present-day battle of man to man.
You tvill thoroughly enjoy every installment of the story
on J also the moving pictures' which will be shown soon.
Read the Story in These Columns
29 We 39th Street. New York
A woman seldom talks to herself.
She just has to rest occasionally.
Occasionally a man may blacken his
accusers in an attempt to whitewash
himself.
Through
an Open Draw
death. Her escape is
is just one of the many
those who will read the big
we have secured, entitled
POLITICAL GOSSIP
FROM WASHINGTON
The readiness with which the Demo
cratic members of the Senate judiciary
committee acceded to Senator Suther
land's suggestion for a reopening of
the hearings on the Brandeis nomina
tion, is regarded here as indicative of
their reluctance to confirm Brandeis
for judge. It is considered equally an
evidence of their unwillingness to bring
the question to a direct issue. They
would like to fiddle along with the
matter until Wilson changes his mind
and withdraws Brandeis name, or un
til conditions in the Senate are such
that the buck can be passed to some
body, anybody, so long as Brandeis is
not put on the bench and the Demo
cratic Senators can make a show of
innocence.
The West Virginia Congressional
district which has just chosen a Re
publican to succeed a Democrat has the
distinction of having had the President
of the United States taking a personal
part in the campaign. On one of his
numerous motor trips from the capital
"the lonely man in the White House"
rode out to Harper's Ferry where he
held conclave with the leaders of the
Democratic party in the district and
told them that the approaching by-elec
tion must be carried at all hazards. The
returns on election nitrht. however.
showed that the Republican had won
by a majority of several hundred.
The Democratic steering Committee
in the Senate has at last come to the
conclusion which nearly eveyone else
has long held, namely, that Congress
will be lucky if it can adjourn by
September. In addition to the ap
propriation bills and the other necessary
legislation which the country must have
and which it wants there is a consider
able program of impracticable measures
which the President insists must be
passed. There will be stiff resistance
to all of these bills, and if Congress can
get home in time to vote, it will be
fortunate.
When the rural credits bill was be
fore the Senate, Senator Smoot en
deavored to have an amendment
adopted reducing the number of Com
missioners from five to three and the
salaries from 110,000 each to $7,500
each, the same as the salary of a
Senator. This amendment was de
feated, every vote against it, except
one, being cast by a Democrat, and
every vote for it, except one, cast by a
Republican. By rejecting this amend
ment, the Democrats make the rural
credits system unnecessarily top-heavy
In providing for two unnecessary Com
missioners, the administration incurs an
expense not limited to the $20,000 in
salaries. Each Commissioner must
have an office, with an assistant, a
private secretary, stenographers.travel
ing expenses, etc. The rural credit
system is expected to be self-supporting,
so each added item of expense is a
handicap to the system and a burden to
the borrower. Yet the administration
that denounced the Republicans as
extravagant, insisted on the additional
Commissioners as unnecessary as a
fifth wheel to a wagon.
"It is a pretty safe guess that New
England will return to the old time Re
publican majorities in November," said
Congressman Edward H. Wason of
New Hampshire. "Our people are
tired aud weary of Democracy. The
present administration has been deaf
to the demand for. protection of dye
stuffs sufficient to induce men to go in
to the manufacture of the same, but
notwithstanding all of the earnest ap
peals of industry, the Ways and Means
Committee has turned a deaf ear to
their entreaties. The workingmen of
New England know this and they
realize how essential dyestuffs are to
their employment. They will take no
chances with a party that temporizes
and does nothing in their behalf."
More Watchless Waiting
It seems to be the habit of members
of the Wilson administration to read
important papers hastily and then for
get their contents. Many months ago
Admiral Fiske wrote an extended re
port upon Naval needs, and presented
it in person to Secretary Daniels who
read it, had it filed and then later
denied that he had ever seen it. Now
comes the information that a national
organization of chemists made a care
ful compilation of facts showing that a
dye industry ia this country could, up
on a week's notice, be transformed in
to an explosive factory with a capacity
of 20,000 shells per day. These facts
were submitted to President Wilson,
handed by him to a cabinet officer, by
whom they were handed to a bureau
chief who, in turn sent them to a sub
ordinate who wrote a formal note of
acknowledgment. And the adminis
tration has done nothing further about
it except defeat Senator Lodge's
amendment for a tariff that would
build up a dye industry. If we want
cheap preparedness we shall never get
it more easily or more quickly or estab
lish it more permanently than through
an extensive dye industry. But we
an't hope for that under a Democratic
administration.
VALUE of PASTEURIZATION
From a sanitary standpoint the value
of pasteurization is of the greatest im
portance when market milk is under
consideration. The pasteurization of
milk, when the process is properly per
formed, affords protection from patho
genic organisms. Such disease-producing
bacteria as Bacillus tuberculosis
B. typhi, B. diphtheriae, and the dysen
tery bacillus, when heated at 140 de
grees F. for 20 minutes or more, are
destroyed, or at least lose their ability
to produce disease.
According to Mohler, pasteurization
offers protection against foot and
mouth disease. He makes the follow
ing statement: "Milk which has been
pasteurized for the elimination of tuber
cle and typhoid bacilli will not prove
capable of transmitting the disease
(foot-and-mouth) to persons or animals
fed with it." In view of the recent
outbreak of foot-and-mouth (disease in
this country, this is of importance.
Within recent years several epidem
ics of septic sore throat have been
traced to milk. In some of these epi
demics it was found possible by pasteu
rization to destroy streptococci which
were isolated from throats of infeeted
people and which were believed to be
the infective agents. Pasteurization,
properly performed, seems to protect
against epidemics of this kind, but un
til the organism which causes the di
sease is definitely known, it is impossi
ble to say that it affords absolute pro
tection. Epidemics of scarlet fever have been
traced to milk supplies, and in such
cases pasteurization has been resorted
to, with apparently satisfactory results,
as a means of safeguarding the public
health.
Pasteurization is of value from a
commercial' standpoint so far as it in
creases the keeping quality of the milk
and prevents financial losses by sour
ing. As practiced at the present time,
commercial pasteurization, with reason
able care, destroys about 90 per cent of
the bacteria, and while it does not pre
vent the ultimate souring of milk, it
does delay the process. At the pre
sent time pasteurization is the best
process for the destruction of bacteria
in milk on a commercial scale. From
Bulletin No. 342,U. S. Dept. of Agricul
ture. The County Agricultural Agents
and hairy or Winter Vetch.
The growing of legumes in Michigan
needs all the encouragement that can
be given. They gather from the air
the most expensive of all our plant
foods and store it in the soil for other
plants to use. Of all the legumes none
is more promising for thousands of
Michigan farms than hairy or winter
vetch. It will thrive on lighter soils.
It does not prevent the farmer from
growing his regular crop for it can be
sown in the corn or potatoes or after
the crop is harvested and grows late in
the season and very rapidly in the
spring. It thus furnishes a good cover
for fields that often lose more in their
bare condition than cropping takes
from them. Vetch as a food for ani
mals is richer thai alfalfa and as a
green manure it lias no superior.
Realizing the value of this wonderful
plant, the County Agricultural Agents
have done all in their power to en
courage farmers to grow it. They have
not encouraged its growth where
wheat is grown extensively but there
are large areas of the State where
there is no legume that can take the
place of hairy vetch. Through the ef
forts of the Agricultural Agent in one
County for two years there are now
over seven thousand acres of hairy
vetch protecting the soil in the winter
and ready to enrich it with green
manure in the spring or to be used as
hay or to produce seed. One man in
that County has realized a handsome
income this season from the sale of
etch seed. This seed is quite high in
price and as most of it comes from
Europe it looks now as though growing
vetch seed in Michigan would be a
good business.
