i
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair to-day ; continued warm j to-morrow
partly cloudy; southerly winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 67; lowest, 43.
Detailed weather, mall and marine reports on page lit
IT SHINES FOK ALL
VOL. LXXXIH. NO. 243.
NEW YORK, SUNDAY, APRIL 30, 1916. Copyright, 1918, by the Sun Printing and Publishing Association.
64 PAGES.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
, , I . j
OBREGON TELLS
SCOTT TROOPS
, MUST GET OUT
Mexican People Host loss.
IViirs (.'htli if Ameri
cans Stay In.
tilVK TS A CHAXCE TO
MAKE (JUOIV HIS PLEA
Anierii'im (teueral Tells
Him Carranza Lut
Villa E-scaiK.1.
U. S. GOT NO HELP
FROM. FIRST CHIEF
Hand it Hunt Impeded by
Refusal to Allow Use
of Railroads.
i'.i l'no, April 29. Gen. Scott and
Gtn. Kunston, representing the United
-I utn. runsion. representing tne UnKed
V - - - i
.. and Gen. Obrcgo.. and Gen. Tre-
rtno. representing Carr.wxa. met In their
first farnul conference on the Mexican
ilttutlon this afternoon shortly after r.
o dock in the green salon of the Juarez
fj.toni llouje.
Arrangements for the confetence were
w.npletcd thli afternoon following the
eturn bv tie:,. Obreion and lien. Tre.
pi
Ijvao and Muffs, of the formal calls of
len. .S-ott and Gen. Kunston and their
itafff last night.
Tne conference basted from fhe
'clock this evening to se en to-night and
: ItH rouclU'lon Gens. Houtt and Kunston
iarriedlv ieturnr.1 in ihn Amrrlrsn sl.le i
"t the line, declaring they had no state
ment to make, but asserting that th'
meni to maKe, nut asserting mat i ne
atethig had been satisfactory and that
sere would l other meeting, with Uen.
Pbrrgon.
The parting of the Ameilcans tioin
.i .McNlcan olilcers was apparently most
ordlal. The next meeting. It was
tilted, would be held on the American
nf the line and will be called by
Crn.' Scott when he la advised from
Wathlngton.
It ran be definitely stated that no
irrermcnt was reached by the confer
r.e for the withdrawal of the A merl
in army and it can he suited almost as
D0ltlvelv that lhr :irmv Is not cmnir
ffftA be uithdiHWii at thts llmf.. llintiffli
'.l?re Is i possibility that the Amerl-
'4n will concede a point nnd agree to
iMtre ihrlr forces to permanent bases
i-J iUlst from active operations until
'.e Ca-.rniiilstas can thow that they are
fully able to handle the situation.
kHtUfuclnr to Mexicans,
I indicated by the Corrania orfi
r s 'i a 1 their oiriversatlnn that litis
II h; satisfactory, but none of the
Mf. an wntild dibcuss this question
liii to-night.
Andres Garcia. Mexican Consul In El
i"t-v, acted as Interpreter for the meet
n, hut occasionally Uen. Kunston. who
iptab, .-'(rjiiish fluently, would address
en Ourt gnu personally,
Ai me close of the conference Gen.
fiutt .-to.nl talking for some time with i
in .uiiii mi tiie arm of Gen. Obregon and
':e unnoft good feeling seemed to pre
vail Tne Amcr-an ofllcers Immediately
wpatcheri u long code message to Wash".
axmn arier the close of the nieetlna and
ar.nouin eil that as so-jir us they received
i reply thej would notifv Gen Shrieon1
SIM a ..md nieetlnir woulri tak nlJ... .
fli" Xiuerlran Gencrula were, met ut
'm- Mf Mean end of International lirldge
v i':irriiiia's troops us they crossed to
he 'onfeicnre. They were In full uni-
'ora and were accompanied by their
in nineenn mwni.il ,,?..-.,
B ak iiE if the United States was pre-l'le
ramr in witnuraw its troops and assert-
'. that the Mexican Goiernnipiit nnu-
" W th- iltuatlnn m well In hand that It
"n taKe care of anything that
.ones up. He asserted that
at there Is no "
inrer a problem even for an army, but
'"it I I a bandit situation, which the
rurai pj,v f .Mexico can care for.
., ... .
?ovfr..n e..; i .' ," wranza mHtfd , he worln abou, 4100.000 and
, "nine, !"' rK,V'n "", A,r,"Cr."las said to have Increased greatly In
dr i, ?, rx-', "" ln, 'vrVu.,.,",ct.1.". ,8 value while Lillian Russell spent several
il" had arrived when the mission of
. ... .. ..,,.,.-,.. r: inuiwiii me
he Vt,.ri..-..i- i..i VJ.-.. ;ii"i..:.i
Jhl th 1 1 oops should be withdrawn.
.ml ii,. V,.V. : Jul. .. .
Hew.,-,,,.: i.,.:,,";,!;' . :.;ViV..!. ,
: :: "
tJt toi, fje,, sc.lt very frankly that
fear.. the situation could not rn-
x." '"VXt 1,,,y Brpat lenBt" oti
" the Mexican people were grow-
si"('s'' . lurtl,:ularls' """ the
' ! Matea has rem addm
'' ' last few days and
I hsiu-e to "Make fiiioil."
H. nle.iilirl tii'.i Mn.i,,. t.A .t...,; 1
'hanee t "make good" before the world I
W'l sani that It was working out Its 1
WoMerns rapidly and would soon he sble 1
"llVlllce Us frlenln
I'V'ril lst.f
'i Si nit milled that the rrrni i
'' i mrnt h.'.l been given many
l'"itl' ,n which to siinnress hnn llirv"
had not succeeded until the. United!
'li" ,vh,v un 1 'i,.t.. M..vi,J. it ,..,i !
Prin."i,i th vill i 1,, mm. m 'i.rn the when It was seen thut ho would bo, the Kuropean belligerents and the al
n. n. hi, hnider houirh offlHallV defeated and efforts to make him most certainty that wo would have to
si.tj ,rf,..i,,iw , ',,i,,i ,,,''V i..,i temporary and wrtnnnent chairman of take action sooner or later as regards
")' of Ins whereabouts as he made his
)' to ihe bnriler.
After lilt, raid, though In porisesslon of
rmbnaii hading nut of Juarez, with
iriiltteiiiy hug,, eominands In Juarez
Mi'iih of there, Scott asserted, the
jarranza nffhlnls had permitted Villa
rk''iie lie was overtaken and fin
l"'l battle only after tho American
p.' hid entered Mexico and over
bun Ills hands hud been scat
11 ,nl by the 'American forces, Gen.
K-ott 11, tended.
He hl.ititlv tnhl ni,ri.i,i thut tlin tn.
Priitlo,, f ihe Crfrranxa Government
. I HOI 1,1'en Hti,-li um tli. tlnlleil sltnles
tiid
x,i,ii.i from friendly Power and
""l Win refusal of Ihn Carruma Gov.
jninent lo permit tho uso or the Mexl
ci railways to convey rood to American
runifHiKd on filth Page.
THE SUN TO-DAY
CONSISTS OF EIGHT SECTIONS
AS FOLLOWS!
Pit"-
FIRST
SECOND
General News
Sporting. Kenneli,
Automobile! . .
:':
20
THIRD
Society. Drama,
Fash-
loni, Munc . . ,
FOURTH Pictorial Mapiinc
FIFTH Uthotravure Supplement,
Art
SIXTH Special Features. Books,
Queries, Chess . , .
S'ATtf-Forein.Schoob.Gar.
dens. Poultry, Finan- I
cial. Problems . . 8 f
EIGHTH -Real Estate ... 4 J
12
12
Total
64
Readers or neusJtaleri uho it not rt
ttht'tll of time mtlont ulll confer a
ftctt on " Tht Sun" by nottfylnt tht Put
Utttlon Department at once by tht phone
2200 Bttkman) uni mlnlnf stttttnt
ulll bt promptly ftruatiei if possible.
VILLA BAND WHIPPED,
U. S. OFFICERS ASSERT
Americans Have Taken the
Fipht Out of the Banditti
in Thirty Days.
Hy "UORGt: H. CI.K.MKNTS,
-.,;, n
Special CorresDondent of Tne Siv
Xa,1QI.ipa McxIco A y. ,,,
to Columbus. N. !.. April 29. Officers
'of the Seventh Cavalry arriving In camp
.!i'r' thl" afternoon from Mltinct. SaMo
"arc'n.oV U,a?
forces In the Sierra Madrea have been
1 broken up Into small bands and have
hfn ko ll:ir1 !,ml otlv" """ th
i ,mI' C"mc. 'nl. tlle .COli".,.r' ha
;m iiMjni nas pern laxcn out or mem. I
( These officers say that Americans have
bn given valuable awslstance by Car
iranztstas during the thirty days cam-1
vi--vu mi mc urir.ii m ,
1 " '"i, hani ,,,f ll,a ?f considerable
?' roinach! on Saturday. April 22.
' "ow "encven inai me i.arraniirtas
iiiii mrgn iv-muii-riiiciiin iruni I orrrun,
Zacatecas. Snn Luis Potoil and other
" , ....
' 'nL, M"Cu 'outl,"n Portion of the re.
f.1 u? ,' ""I?," ,1 aJ"rl.ve t0":I,B.?' ".I"'
(who have nothing In common with thn ,
in then of thl section, afe in position to .
keep Vllllitas ftom reassembling In num-
ben mifTii?lntlv larcri fn tlnmair nr tvv 1
...... ....... n ... ......
ocrs sufficiently large to damage or levy j
tribute.
Opinion prevails anions: the men ar
riving from the west that Villa Is dead,
and this opinion Is said to be enter
tained by natives of all political opinions.
PORTER TERRIFIES VILLAGE.
Letter From Ireland raose. Mini to
Wrrrk Hospital.
Tarrttown. N. V.. April 29. This vll-
lure hail an trish iinrlsinc nf lis nwn
to-day. 1
John Dalton. born In the old country J
in tnt v.aMtrht tnr nan ri ttnrlrt in Mr.
'
Charles J. Gould's country place, which 1
1 .- .....
Alien i,enilinii nas iraseo xor iiir summrr,
became excited after reading a letter
from a frlen.l In Ireland. lie ran
through the house nnd grounds brandish
ing a club, and all the other servants
fled In terror. A punitive expedition,
composed of Chief of Police Bowles,
Police Surgeon Kairchlld and William
V. Urown, overseer of the poor, was sent
out to capture Dalton.
When they arrived at the Gould place
he seemed to have quieted down and
asked to speak to Chief Bowles aside.
They went Into another roim. Dalton
suddenly became tolent again and over
threw the chief, striking nnd kicking
htm In the face until Kairchlld and
ETA, . tZC
'. . ' .:;'. ..
n"".,l " . ,r., . ""9,,"", .
hllo hospital at endants were getting
a straltjacket ready Dalton i.roKe out
again, chased the nurse and all the
patients who were able to walk out of
the building, and then set about smash
ing every window he could reach. It
tlin chief and four nollceinen to
I bind him. and even then the frightened
Inmates had to be coaxed to return to
hospital.
DnnrMSnV VCTATT. TR aflT.TI
... i.. , n
Made a Restaarant.
The historic Robinson estate on the
si'ore roan. rirooKiyn. which wn csii-
,,,. . ,re. has lieen sod. t was an
nounccil yesteruay, ro uarry ,i, .uarguiicn
'of ISS Fiftieth street. Brooklyn.
Margulles Intends 'to use 'ihe estate.
Margulles intenas to use tne estate ,
which covers the 200 by 800 foot block
' Ninet
J"'''"
xiWtated wlHta In MnFtta
a, vh, P, ts 100 years old I will lie
P K Kres- mrmerly of te lotd 1
IV :,,,' M,n!,e int .rn.
strong opposition from the other resl-1
dents of this section of Bay Hldgc, as It j
I. . . . - . ... . . I
I ... . ... - . .... l
urn ne'ine r rsi commercial eniernrise ,
1 on the Shore road.
BARTH0LDT QUITS RACE,
" ZTZ. - .
Withdraws From Klubt to Re Dele
Kmtr to Chlrasto Convention.
St. Ixirjis. April
29.-
Three attempts
' ex-Congressman Richard Bartholin
" aln honors to-day In the Tenth ills-
trlct Republican convention In Clayton
were blccked. lie withdrew ns a candldiito
for delegnte to the Chicago convention
the convention were defeated .1, tl. com.
1 mlllees.
Resolutions favoring the establish-
ment of an American merchant marine
and adequate preparedness wcro adopted.
GETS DRESS SUIT BY FLIER.
Uen. Totrnsarnd Short of Food hot
.Not of Clothes.
IoNPos. April 29, Gen. Townshend
was In coinmiinlcntloii with tho relief
forces until a few hours before his sur
render, sending and receiving mesmgea
hy wireless and aeroplane.
The last mall despatches from Meso
potamlan headquarters reported that
Den, Townshend had asked that dretu
suit be sent to him. The next day an
army filer dropped In on Kut with ths
dress suit.
NO PIGTAIL ON
OUR UNCLE SAM,
INSISTS T. R.
Poisons in Country Who
Would f liinafy U. S..
He Says.
CHICAGO GIVES HIM
A WARM RECEPTION
i
ClItCA.io. April 29 Theodore Boose-
Ivelt presented to-night In his speech be-
fore the Illinois Bar Association what I
many accepted as his platform. Although ,
j ni.my In hi audience were not In syin-
painy wmi ms v cw. the Colonel inr.
idejs to express, and ho expressed them
In caracterlstle Roosevelt way
Kven the piescnce of the Demnoratlc
Governor of Illinois did not deter the
Colonel from criticising the Admlnlstra-
Hon for It, dallying policy on prepared- j
More than 1,200 perwons heard the
Colonel, and the applause was generous.
Koine of the joints of the Colonel's
speech were :
I'rcporednoKS of the nation to with
stand by arms an attack from a for
eign foe.
Preparedness In Industry by Govern
mental encouragement that It may lie
In shape to aid the Government In time
of need.
Preparedness of big business by
tiane legislation which w 111 regulate
without destroying.
Preparedness of labor by pm-Idlng
pioper living conditions and sickness
and old ag pensions.
The Colonel said In port .
There nrc perMinn In this louutry '
who openly advocate our taking tlv po-1
fcltlon that China holds, the position from j
which the b.'st and wisest Chinamen are
now painfully trying to raise their land.
the men and women who take this view.
coining mat r can say win inlluence i
ine noming or sucn a Mew is entirely
Incompatible with the right to exercise
the privileges of srlf.goicrnnv-nt m a
deiiUMTary. for self-goiernment cannot
permanently elst among people Inca- ,
liable of self-defence.
Won't Chlnnfy Cuniiirj.
. , , m,.v ,i,-t ih m..i.,,i,
r.,n... .. ". ...... ... .i.
mially lalil. tlle ,rouble to ' k lU,
Lt' . .. - . .
ntiauy iaKe tne rrouDie to tlilUK on tlle I
problem at all, will refuse to consent
In ni urniil.ki'.. In 11... Phln-iflullin nf
this country. I believe that they will!
refuse to follow those who would make
right helpless beforo might, who would
put a pigtail on L'ncle Sam. and turn
i the Goddess of Liberty Into a naclflst fe-
. male huckster, clutching a bag of dollars '
I which she has not the courage to guard 1
against aggression. It Is to these men
and women that I sp.ak.
t npm-al to the men of the West to
take llie lead in tne movement for the
senullie iiallonallzatloii of our pcoiile.
lf tbe republic- fouudeil by Washington
and saved by Lincoln Is to be turned
into a nine polyglot boarding house.
who'e 'I0'1'"" hunters of twenty different
ll.irlomllmeH N.-ruillhle. frtr ir:ili. ?ar.1i
nationalities scramble for gain, each
nationality bearing no real allegiance
except to the land from which It origi
nally came, then we may as well make
up our minds that the gieat experiment
of democratic government on this con
tinent will have failed.
"No less will It hae failed If each
section thinks only of the welfuie of
that section and with crass blindness
belleies that disaster to some other sec
tion will not afTect It. And the failure
will be greatest of all If foolish men are
persuaded by wicked men that one caste
or class Is the prime enemy of some
other class or caste,
"I appeal to the men of the I'ast to
prepare so that the nun of the Pacific
slope shall be free from all menace of
danger. I appeal to the men of the West
to prepare so that the men of the At
lantic coast shall be free from all dan
ger, I appeal to the North, South, West
and Last alike to hold the life of every
man. and the honor of every woman on
the most remote ranch on the Mexican
border as a sacred tinut to be guaran
teed by the might of our entire nation
and the life of every man. woman and
child who should be protected by the
l-nlted States on the high seas likewise,
Vital to ll Amrrlrnn.
-r ,eni ,,. ,.verv ffn.v. im.en..
rv -ood n,e,ir,
merch it husin. ,
merchant, business
I 'V,a.?,a h:,,!'.rH.
whether farmer or
man or professional
works with brain or hand. Am thine
of disgrace or dishonor that befalls our
people anywhere Is of vital moment to
all of us, wherever wo live; and any
.... ... . ,
oeeu tnat leuecis crco.t on rne American
name Ih u subject of congratulation for
every American of every section of this
country.
I speak of the Knlted States as a
whole. Surely It ought to be unneces-
.rB '. ...
sary 10 nay uiiii n spiun its itusuiuii-
Uln H Joes to permit division by
geographical section. We must not stand
merely for America first. We must
stand for America first and last, and
Kor no other nation second except as
we stand for fair piay for all nations,
There can be no divided loyally In this
.,-innl rv The nuin whn Irles tn lie lnvnl
e.-innlrv The mnn whn Irles
"' . ".
to t lis rour. ry an. a so 10 some otner
ronntrv
i,... u ,,u. ...n
loyalty to the other country ahead of
1 his loyalty to
this, Tho pollllco-r.iclal
hvnhen Is the breeder of moral treason
I "On Augurit 1, 19H, the great war be
gan ; and It had already become clear
1 that the already dreadful situation in
Mexico was swing steadily from bad to
worse. It should have been perceptible
t0 nny nation and It Is noi to our credit
as a nation that It was not evident to us
that there was the gravest danger of;,
our being Involved at some point with
MolfO. Kvcn the flrst few j week- of
,ll Kicm vim iiiuui; 11 vviiivii mm
the prluio factor In succesi In war was
prepnredness in advance and that It
was Impossible adequately to prepare
after war had begun,
I Followed Bad Advice,
"Vet our well meaning, foolish, peace,
nt nny in Ice people clamored so loudly
that we must not prepare because pre
paredness would Incrense the chances of
war that wo followed their advice. Six
months went hy without one particle
of preparation by us. Our army and
navy remained as weak ns ever. Noth
ing of nny sort was done to help put
our Industries In shape to help us In
the event of war. Th professional paci
fists hailed this refusal to exorcise prs-
cAfWfnwrit on flni Pag.
HEAD OF NEW IRISH REPUBLIC SURRENDERS;.
CHIEF OF REBEL FORCES IN DUBLIN KILLED;
REVOLT REPORTED ON VERGE OF COLLAPSE
Insurgent Headquarters in
Post Office Destroyed
by Fire.
REBELS TRAPPED IX
CENTRE OF THE CITY
Situation in the Rest of Ire-
11 OfflnV Dei'ljU'lMl
'"" VIIH.mil, JLl HIIUI
Snttutfilptni'V
0llllllltl01, .
.
SINN FEINERS FOUND
USING GERMAN ARMS
ymy W0II1CI1 !!(! Cllildlell I
Killed Death List Is
Largely Increased.
tptcial Coble Despafck to Tm i
London, April 29. The snriender to
the British Government troops of Peter
Pearso. appointed by the Sinn Fein reb
els "President of the Irish Republic,"
and the death of Jim Connelly, "Vice-1
j President," were reported from Kublfn
, lata to-ulght
Dublin's genet aj post olllco, which ha
.been scrlng the tebe'li as heaclitiattei s,
i,,,. i,.,,, i.nrnni in ih cmni.il. th. re.
, . .
porl "u '
T1e following official Matement was
gten out hc-.e late to-ulght with re-
1P1, , , .i.,,,!.,,,,,.,,,, , mitMn
The situation Impioved considerably
till morning, but the rebels are still
offering serious resistance In tlle neigh
borhood of Sackvllle street. A cordon
of tioop - encircling this quarter,
steadily chlng In. but houe llglnlng
necessarily rendered prognns slow
The post office and a block of build
ings to the iast of Sackvllle street hnvo
been detroyed by tire. A party of
'" " .uiu r
Ml" awl King's Knd by guns mounted
rebels was driven out or llolaud s
on motor lorries.
One of the rebel leaders, a man
named Pearse, i said to be In this
area with a wounded leg. A later
report recelied thl evening states that
Pears' surrendered unconditionally
and that he nsierts he has authority
t accept the same terms of surrender
for nls followers In Dublin
Another leader, .lame I'onnollj.
reported to have been killed.
The Knur Courts district, which
Is
still held by the rebels, Is also siir-
iSlil:";' .nf"
....
tion points to a conclusion of the re
bellion As far ai Pilblln Is itm
cerned the revolt is on the verge of
collapse.
A considerable number of the rebels
and other persons are In military cus
tody Tlepuits lecelved this evening
from the ret nf Ireland announce
1 generally satisfactory conditions. Bel
fast and the t'Ister province are nor
mal The situation In Londonderry
is unite satisfactory.
Conditions h, the rlt lthln
Illieen llllien m i.,iiv,.m, ,.-
ported to be normal, but a band of
rebi-l prisoners have neen enpiuteir o,i
the way to Ciueeristown
Another band of rebels Is reported
to have Intrenched at Knnlscorthy.
but the police are still holding out and
the wads and railways are clear.
Within four miles of the town dam
age has been done to Harrow Hridge,
on the Southeastern Hallway, hut Is
icpoited to be not serious.
Itrhrllioii Collapsliiti.
Despatches from the seat of the re
bellion throughout tne iiny mnicatcn trint
tl.e revolt was rapid y approaching Its-
rnd. accounts jlrn rebels wen,
trapped In the centre of the city by a
pnwerfill cordon of Government troops,
Mlllturv training and organization, the
Oovermnent troops' machine guns and
Govermnent troops' machine guns and
naval shell fired from patrol vessels In
( d , making
Ihelr Impress upon the rebels' resl
""r imjiress upon
tance.
IT'or " "", report of the destruction
' V" nf, ,,,c ,'urr,,n'pr
a tli a lAirlnp t Vim mlinlK il'prf ri
, , , ' ""' l vM, oltwll., .iia and docks, all were de-
1 Ported trr He still in rirm posscnsioii ,v,r iin,M ..i, , ,
' """..P"" ntttf- ,r . 'n.r'?'' .
nacitvnie sucei nun in vnu ruur i.uun,
about half a mll west nf the point
I where Hackville street ets the Uffex.
The fires In the various parts of the
city, were reported to be dying out and
all reports agreed Ihnt the Government
troops were steadily gaining the upper
hand.
An exact list of casualties could not
yet he obtained, but It Is considered
certain that to-day's toll exceeds by far
those of the previous days. This Is due
chiefly to the fact that the Government
. i ,i,ir "irr. rinr-- nmnmi
.. . ... 1....1 1
: : . . ';.-, .. . ..... i . i ,
, ne re, e,s ."".; -.
, ... .- -::.
1 tlllcry against tne nuiniings.
Women and Children Killed.
The victims. It Is known. Include many 1 were flying overhead 11 mi there was the
civilians, nnd even a number of women 1 thunder of military held guns and the
and children who were caught by tho fire rj11K of sholls through the narrow
and rrosstlro while trying to escape from streets on the strongholds of the icvo
the reign of terror. lutlonlats.
The district to which the last stages ,
... th. tlrltlttr lire rnnnn.d l lwi,imlll
. nor,h l)y ,he orti,ern part of
Sackvllle street, by Butt Bridge In Ihe
east, St, Stephen's Green In the south-
wes nnd the Knur Courts In the west.
As dusk settled unon the Irish caliltal
As dusk sett e,t upon tin irisn . apit 1
"r..,y.rr:.'"'.","'j:, ";urj:s-nn; "0??r.
few days well familiarized with the
rebels' tactics, prepared to draw closer
and closer around tho Sinn Keln strong
holds. The firing, which had txen only
intermittent during the day, increased In
violence as the night wore on and the
last messages from the American and
K.nglluh correspondents, who arrived
early yesterday in Dublin with Chief
Secretary of Ireland Birred, Indicated
that the. Government's rorces were set
ting out for their last decisive blow.
The belief which has been widely
prevalent from the outset, that the rebel,
lion was plotted with the active aid and
possibly at the Instigation or German
Government agents, became more nearly
a certainty to-day. In th Immediate
ContiMricd on Second Pope.
rpHR accompanyirifr map shows the parts of Dublin
in which the principal clashes between the
troops and rebels occurred. The Sinn Feincrs begun
operations by seizing the post office (A) und the
Hotel Imperial, just opposite. They then too!;
possession of St. Stephen's Green (D), from which,
at last reports, they had been driven out. An at
tack on Dublin Castle (H) failed, but the rebels
DEATH STALKS IN DUBLIN STREETS
AS FLAMES SWEEP OVER WIDE AREA
Civilians Shot Down From
Rooftops by Holx'l
Snipers.
AITOS AS BARKlt'ADKS
r MDXF.V B. CAVK.
reriitl Cable DetfiOtch to Tn sin
Dcbi.ik, April 2S, noon, via London,
Aprl' 2?. "Good luck, gentlemen. I,
don't know what will become of all of.
you, I
Augu'tlne ltlrrell, Secretary of State
for Iieland, thus bade good-hy to us In.
i the farly hours this morning as he
P ' ladder lead-!
:ni frnrti fhm .muvu nit.!... r ,i.a ti -1 , . 1
Ish deetrover ns she crept slowly along
side the Dublin Custom House dock. The
ilestro.ver's tin ee Inch gun was trained
mi a msterlous port of the city from
which the clatter of machine gun tiring
came continually. Un the boat the offi
cers called for firearms and ammunition
belts They were taking no chance of a I
sudden dash from the Sinn Kelners, whoj
,la w
centre for three cay. j
""l nignts one of the most amazing
u- wuevrii Happenings oi
I iii.'iit i ii i iiurs,
"We, as a Final; party of American
ainl Lngllsh Journalists, had been In-
' II...I l.c V. IIIUU iwi. . i.
.....a nf ,,,,irii ,.ni uiie in WIl-
lleBS at tlist hand the Incredible battle
in Dublin city. We were swished across
the Irish Sea in a British destroyer
vvhleh carried the Secretary of State for
1 1
Ireland on his hasty visit to the Vlce
Itegal lodge to gain personally the de
tails of the event for the House of Com
mons. ,nlm, ,m . ..
A" the P ,'hc(
, of the dock . I coU: d e rl from
i wocks in the centre of the city splial
Mnokc ilouds which marked the partial
ltruct on by the ml llu.ty of some
destruction by the mllltaty of some
strongholds of he rebels I had seen
,llt!,!t' clouds miles awaj. from the sea,
, .' rlslr.g sun lighting up tl.e scene with
picturesiiue iinpicsslveness,
Hubllh appeared to be a deiid city
except for these weird evidences of hid
den life. It all seemed unrc.il. 'I'ho
sign
' of life aboard lay moored at the ,:
iitlavti.
,u ,. ,i, r .v.. i.i..
And then, as the noise of the ship's en
gine ceased, from over the bridge and
the Unit of the famous Liberty Mail
now hardly recognizable with Its
smashed roof and battered frontage
came the bang plug clatter of machine
guns and answering rifle llie,
Tho sentries strictly scrutinize our
passportH and we pass on to other guards,
who movu us ipilckly out of the danger
zone and so to the buttle of Dublin city.
The story of the strange days aeems
' indescribable. Klfteen hundred amieii
I fullv limvlsloned and iirsiinlzeil Sinn
, ,,, e 8Ullllellly attuclc(1 -, ,Uy .
lire on Mondav asl. Thev o.unr, line..
pected and since that .Monday Dublin
has seen stirring times. Indeed there
hnH lint lieen :l mntiw.nt Hlnie lint l.nllelu
Snipers I 'I re on Hotel,
"H " cruniuiing run niisi and
. ''" "." "' suceis unu
"luarcs as I vv-rl this. Lven now In
' "'" h,,,cl 1,1 wllloh " "ectlon f officers
, 1UHrt,red snipers are firing at the
i-upih-.- window, tron. r.r tos. un
bullet went clean through my bedroom
mi hour ago.
One cannot walk In the empty streets
In safety without keeping close to cover
or unaccompanied by military guards,
7 E ko Zhlv mV
.ow 11 giiiiiKiiii rroiii iiie iiivir i.irre
Is bombarding tho high tower of a ills
llllery opposite North Wall station)
from which the green Mag of the rebels
waves and from which snipers am busy
at their dirty work. IJvery street Is
guarded by men In khaki with fixed
bayonets and with bandoliers loaded
with ammunition slung over their shoul
ders. Squads of soldiers patrol every
thoroughfare and at every corner, outlet
and gateway are armed sentries. One
cannot walk more than twelve yards
alone without being challenged.
.Now; anil. atxaln, the quiet is broken by
a civilian passing alotif escorted by
I ' ' ' I
1 JsLaaaaaaHaaaaaaaaaask-
.aaaaaaaaaaaaaHLfc
?aK
''aaaaaaPaaaf'.. 'v-?,
aaay '
"JTsbbbbVIbbW -'
JaflHiHkf
'-Vs 's
On Tuesday, according to re
ports from Dublin, a proclama
tion was sent out by wireless
from the rebels' headquarters in
the post office, announcitief the
appointment of Peter Penrse as
the first president of the Irish
republic. Peter Penrse is the
headmaster of the St. Knda's
Secondary School. I-ast night's
report from London said that
Pearse hail been captured by the
Government forces.
couple of armed guard to a place of
safety, or a woman out foraging for
milk or food under escort
Kor every street Is a danger area,
Bullets swish along overhead and from
the city come bigger crashes of machine.
n:td field guns at work.
It I I ii u Carefully I'lanueil,
About midday on Uaster Monday,
when the revolution begun, huge ciowils
or gajly ilres-od holldayiuakers tin tinge, I
the streets and t rumors and packed
Jauntln-- cars and other vehicles earn
ing the masses on their way tn the
Kaster race meeting not far from Kings
town. But observant pedestrians on
the outskirts of the city could have
noticed an unusually large number of
ccll.its nnd others entering from all
the apiiroachcM and apparently making
for one particular spot. The majority
of these were dresse,! In dark blue uni
forms, with black shoulder straps, slouch
hats and the familiar uniforms, of the
Slim Kelners, Many carried packs and
nil the usual equipment of soldiers, They
were making for tho Sackvllle street ills
trlct, the Fifth avenue nf Dublin city.
Soon the adjoining nrea around the
O'Connell Bridge, which practically di
vides the buslnesii portion from the
ladies' shopping centre, was packed with
Sinn Feuiers, obviously by preat ranged
planning,
Then, veij suddenlv, the storm burst
There came shots and tiie crash of
breaking windows, stones hurled through
the air, rebel war cries, ugly rushes
from all the buildings on Sackvllle street
and adjacent thoroughfares,
Slioiw ami buildings were stormed,
lilies igipenied fiom windows and roofs
as If by magic, shots rails out and
ilvillans screamed as they scurried for
shelrer.
In the roads themselves ktlll moio
amazing things were happening. Tear
ing through Hie tlioroughfaies were
rebels, holding up all vehicular trafllc.
Tramcais were dragged off their lines
and pulled to the shies of the streets
fop use an barricades. Char-a-bancs 1
were conimanileereil, automobiles were
stopped and their occupants sternly or
dered out, the tires were punctured and
the cars otherwise disabled, then 11,1, le.l
to tin, rebel barricades lining the centre
c"5'' Westmoreland Hirer,
, , m ,,.i,ih.. ,, ..
olhpr and tho O'Connell Bridge between,
llnrrlcndrs of Urtldliiu.
In North Karl street, leading from
Sackvllle street, a huge bedding and
furniture emporium was broken Into by
the Hlnn Kelners and chairs, tables, beds
and bedding wcro thrown through the
broken windows Into tho street, and Im
mediately utilized for forming barri
cades. It obviously was tho intention of the
rebels to take possesslpn of ns, many
big buildings and hotels as possible In
were successful in seizing and holding the Four
Courts (B). The Sinn Feincrs headquarters,
Liberty Hall (V) was shelled and destroyed by a
liiitish gunboat in the' River Liffcy. The fires set
by the rebels in Sackville street (named on map)
spread across the Liffey between the O'Connell and
Butt bridges and destroyed many buildings in Graf
ton street and adjoining thoroughfares.
.Shops nnd Hotels Looted mid
liulli'ts Fired Into Hooins
of Guests.
FAILURE
BDMll ATTACK
the centre of the city before ths military
could arrive. Following out this plan,,
a party of 100 or 300 made a sudden
rush for the post office hulldlngs on '
Sacktlllc street. The irbels swarmed
through the doors and windows, smash-
tug and destroying everything In their 1
mad ruh. In an Incredibly short space
of time the post office was captured and
I the Sinn Kelners had commenced to
I establish themselves against expected I
attacks,
I Boxes of ammunition, provisions and I
supplies of all kinds appeared, apparently
from nowhere, and soon the building was
converted Inlo a inuaratlve fortress.
Adjoining this Government department!
stood the Hotel Metropole. an Imposing British l." Glieti Turks l linnee to
building, fair game and good hunting for' Fortify Kut.
the Slim Kelners. Simultaneously with !
the attack on the post office nianv scores The capture of the British army at
stormed tl.e Hotel Metropole. which also, Wut-el-Aniara :s a blnw of twofo.il
was soon In rebel hands. strength to the British i.iinpalgn In
Another good provisioning centre was ' Mesopotamia, which had Bagdad us its
represented In the Hotel Imperial, ex-1 objective.
actly opposite the post office. Similar The loss of the British arms, which
measures were adopted here. The consisted originally, according to stati
frlKhtened occupants and staff quickly ments made In the House of Commont
bundled out and then for some time f "something more than a iliilun" -came
the conveying of foodstuffs and ' 2.,00O men Is a serious setback, but
drinkables fiom the hotels to the post the Iofs of the position if Kut-el-Amara
office Ms far more important from a military
standpoint. The town may now be so
r.ser I iilforni a Tartlet. fortified and strengthened by the Turks
that It will become a well nigh lm-
From what 1 have been able to gather paFsablo obstacle mi tho Tigris to the
from tellable sources, no .direct attack advance of the British oil Bagdad,
was made by the rebels upon civilians. 1 The capture of Iligdad, thought so
But of roure In the mad rush and shoot- Important bv the British that they at
lug the civilian casually t Is not In- 1 tempted to advance ton miles up thx
considerable , h ampv banks nf the Tigris in one of
Kvery soldier apparently was shot at ' the hottest countries on earth, would
even tlmiKh walking through the streets be Important not onlj trnm a mllltaty
utiHinied, and men In any sort of uni- but from a political standpoint
form- the It I C. ambulance corps. Ac
--were immediately the object of similar Of lliiiinrlniiee to lieriiinii j .
i!"i'Ti;,wn?h7H..H.innlf?rm "P' The city had been for suo years the
!he":!,.,t,H,l ers;tri, t ,""K-,,lMR w,,' c.tr. of" Moslem religion and cultuto
M.ii,i. woi.11., .. ...... . , . . and was consldi red tho most Important
tn-in th? TerV .!nTC",1"', "a''i Mohammedan leutre. Tlle effect of Its
inm.; ,? ' 7loUH,-v,'J''r'l ""'I capture on the Turkish 1 lc could
Ke ers T ! '""T. L ,h', ,Sin" I I'arrlly be overestimated Germany Inn
f n . , ",ih i'.0,- ' "lL: l,RP'f' ""''''''I would be hard lilt, for the capture would
thinvvn Into the street
I'" - I lllllllirUlS nnil
A"Tieilce ni me omcer wn nee.
...... 1,. . . , . -.
snnallv ri'Iated to me. Apnumunini
a civilian frlen.l In ordinary attire and
. ' nonor rn uniform ho was and faster route to India than the Brit
uriving his- automobile through the cen- isli possessed in the Suit. Canal and
mi0 IP .' y' nlrcctl '" came I would mean also the development of
witiilu sighting distance of the nffeeted the great' mineral wealth ot Asia Minor
area bullets swished around from high 1 by Germany.
windows and rooftops, A dozen or I It was to capture Bagdad, therefore,
more bullets hit the par. Obviously the and to protect Anglo-Perslau oil fields
objective was the uniform, hut the bill- south of Basra that the British under
lets missed the intended marl: and found took the campaign shortlv after
Instead tho civilian, who was shot dead ' Turkey's entrance Into the w.ni
as he sat In the car. Tho British army, which was composed
niicklng quickly, the officer threw of Indian troops. Arabs and English
himself on the finer of the car, below forces, started from Basra, the British
the steering gecr, and as lie crouched, re- base near the Persian Gulf, up tho val
versed the engine and harked hastily ley of the Tigris toward Bagdad, 40(1
aw-ay fiom the danger zone Seeking, miles away rtie dlltlcultlcs of the ism-
sarrty in a lintel in a side stieet. he cx -
changed his military uniform for civilian
clothes and then eenlly sauntered down
Sackville street unnoticed and unhurt
Hunting liniia I'sed.
I am told that neatly all the soldieis'
I wounda were very bad, for from tiie
1 booty subsequent!; captured by the mill-
I'm' IT W , U ,,,Ui,.,,'a, .... -
the rllles used y the Sinn Kelners were r"'1''""''' forward up the Tigris toward
old twelve bore spiting guns ...IHagdad It rent bed Dlalah. ten miles
ofllcer assured me nf ih ,i, below Bagdad, In November, and tlu
evidence that the ordinary fillings had
been
s,rii nuin i.trmnhcs ancj re
1 ny jagged pieces of metal ,'vnrv.
placed
lug from half an Inch to three.nu.ineV
of an Inch long One officer had his
hand completely blown away by a piece
of an Iron nut
Meanwhile the rebels started looting
the b ir shoos in Ihe SueWviiie , .
neighborhood, Jewellers were the chief
I sufferers, clothiers. 100. and In ti,is 1
inioi-iiieu ,ne puuiie. joined to
I extent.
a great
An eyewitness told me that he saw n
woman run back to a Jeweller's shop from
which she had secured a ring to get
another because tho first didn't fit her
linger. Another looter, a man, waR
seen on the .'iirlmtone changln;. his
1 1 miners for looted new ones.
In fact there was one mad hour of
Continued on Second Epgt.
iQftfiA DDITICU
0VUV Ulll 11011
SURRENDER TO
TURKS AT KUT
Exhaustion of Supplies
Finally Forces Garri
son to Yield.
HUNGER ENDS SIEGE
LASTING m DAYS
3Iajor-General Townshend
First Orders AH Guns
Destroyed.
CHECK TO MARCH
AGAINST BAGDAD
Repeated Efforts to Send
Food to Besieged Army
i Failed.
London, April 29. After holding out
for nearly five months the British armr
under Major-Gen. Charles V, Townshend,
which had been besieged by Turkish
armies at Kut-el-Amara. has been com
pelled to surrender because of the ex
haustion of supplies.
In the ofllclal announcement of ths
suriender, which was Issued this after
noon. It Is stated that Major-Gen. Town-
I shend's army consisted of only 2.97H
British troops and fi.iiOH Indian troops.
It wai generally believed that the
British force win much larger than
thl.
To prevent the Turkish forces from
capturing them all the British guns and
ammunition weie destroyed before Gen.
Townhend surrendered.
The surrender ot a lltltlsli army Is an
event ot very rare occurrence and much
i "orrovv was causril in London by the an.
j nouncimient.
Tha iftlclal statement was as follows:
After a irsUtance prortacted for 1 13
days and conducted with a gallantly
and fortitude that will be forever
memorable. Gen. Townshend has been
compelled by the final exhaustion or
his supplies to surrender Hi fore
doing so he destroyed his suns and
munitions.
The force under huu consists uf 2 -!'T0
British troops of all ranks and
service anil some fi.uini Indian troops
and their followers.
CHECKS BAGDAD DRIVE.
,, ,, , he,. rlv,, ..f . cil,-....!
stretching from Berlin through Cuii-
I I- ..,! 1l..l,.l i tl... 11.,..,,..,
, en, iiu r ,,, ,..,f.M..., ,vj 1 iipmii
...i ... ., 1...1,.
such a road would give 'her a bitter
.palgn wcro enormous. Sickness, swamps.
heat and the preservation of a long line
of communications 111 hostile, territory
confronted tho first expedition, whleii
was under the command of Sir Arthur
1 Barrett and Sir John Nixon.
Withdrawal From lltalnh.
I Sir John Nixon's army occupied Kut-
el-Aniar.i September .'!', 191j, and then
I cantur "f rlt' waK K''ll(,r.illy re
garded In London as merely a matter ot
tllVtC, BUt the 1 Mrsn nnenwiv,. w,i ,v
furious that the British were coniielted
to withdraw to Cteslplion, which was lhu
winter palace of tho Parthian kings o:
2,0011 years ago,
lleie on November 2." the force was
crushlngly defeated by the Turklmi army
tinder tho direction or pi, id Marshal von
der Gollz, who died recently. The Brit
ish army retreated rapidly toward Kut-el-Amara.
A further blow was struck
by the disaffection of Arab vnlunter"
cavalry, who, leitig Mohammedans, wvm
somewhat In sympathy with tho Turks
Gen. Nixon then left Gen Townshend
at Kut-1-Aniara, which was repeated!)
unsuccessfully attacked by tho Turkish
forces, and returned to the base He
was later removed. Gen, Sir Percy Lake
assuming the position of commander in
chief in Mesopotamia.
It Is possible Uiat If Gen. TownluiiaJ'
'BbbV, 1
MrA-.-f.fe'rV"' uft. ' ' t' ' 1 1 1 1 11, il , 1
SBSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSS
