Jl
Itigtutt $
i
Mather forecast:
Fair Tonight
(FuU Report on Page Two.)
m
y
V
Si nday Evening
Edition
'
NUMBEB 8880.
REM END, LABOR UNREST
CHIEFS GIVE UP, AFFECTS ARMY
BRITISH HEAR OF U. S. TOILERS
Unofficial Report In London
Says Sinn Fein Rebellion Has
Been Quelled.
TROOPS HAVE "PRESIDENT"
Rumor Also Says Commander of
"Irish Army" Has Been Shot
and Killed. -
LONDON, Aprils 36. All the
Sinn Fein leaders have surrender
ed unconditionally to the BritisB
authorities dnd the 'Irish rebellion
is at an end, according to an un
official report current here today.
Press dispatches from Dublin
today say the same, report is heard
there, but cannot be confirmed.
None of the names of the lead
ers supposed to have surrendered
today could be learned.
It is known, however, that Peter
Pcarce, "provisional president'' of
the "Irish republic," sunendered
unconditionally after having been
wounded.
COMMANDER KILLED.
Gen. Sir John French, commander of
the home forces,- also announces it Is
reported that James Connolly, self
styled "commander of the army of tho
republic of Ireland," has been shot and
killed. This report, General French
said, he had been unable to confirm.
it' Is .further statist! tnat the Jpur
courts districts have been captured by
the troops.
General French aMiounsed last night
that tho Ef.nenU-iatv)fnco'ii IJiibUn.
headquarters ot the rebels, with 'a bloc
'of buUdliius eastward In Sackvllle
street, hart been burned to the ground.
"The situation in Dublin Is Improved,
but the rebels are still ofterlnc serious
teslstance in tho nolgjiborhosd of Hack
Mile slteet," said General French. "Our
cordon Is ntendll advancing from house
to house, fighting, but necessarily .rak
ing slow iro'grcss.
Block Destroyed.
"The general postofflce and the block
or buildings have been destroyed by
Are. A party of rebels was driven out
ot Boland's mill, by & motor car, mount
ing guns. Our cordon surrounding Four
Courts Is gradually closing 'in. All in.
formation indicates that the rebellion,
so far as Dublin Is concerned. Is on tho
verge of collapse. A considerable num
ber Of prisoners have been taken.
"The reports from tho rest of Ireland
are generally satisfactory. Conditions
In Ulster are normal. A band of rebels
has been located between Athenry and
Craughwell, nineteen prisoners being
taken. Another band Is entrenched at
Knnlscorthy."
Crisis Apparently Is '
Passed in Dublin Now
DUnUN. April 30. The crisis of tho
Irish rebellion apparently has passed.
Only intermittent firing was heard
throughout the city yesterday, as
government troops, under covor of
darkness, drew their lines closer
around tho Sinn Felners, trapped in
the heart of Dublin.
Smoke-blackened ruins and the
debris of shell-wrecked buildings In
Sackvllle street mark the trail )t the
rebellion across the Irish capital. Do
neath these ruins lie tho bodies of
many of the rebels who led In the
first days of desperate fighting.
Fires started by thu rebels Thurs
day night, in an effort to burn tho
heart of the city, have been complete
ly extinguished.
The Sinn-Felners now hold only a
small area, completely surrounded by
government troops.
Tho military authorities are takjn?
steps to provide food for a large part
of tho populace within the lines drawn
by the troops. Thousands of nonco-.n-batants,
catiRht In tho swirl of tho re
bellion, have been almost entirely
without provisions since the rlotlnir
began Monday noon. ,
Secretary tor Ireland Aurrustlne Blr
(Contlnued on Page Eighteen.)
Father Kills Man
To A vtnge Daughter
Prominent Mississippi Feed Mer
chant Shoots Victim in
Crowded Cafe.
HATTlESBUnG, Miss.. April 80. "He
ruined my daughter; evon hell Is too
good for htm," said I I). Holland, ot
Holland & Flint, thl biggest wholesale
flour and feed compflny In Mississippi,
this morning as he stepped from the
crowded Acme' cafe after emptying a
revolver Jnto Solma It. McCroroy, day
manager.
McCrorey wns standing behind the
cash register. The first shot fired went
through his heart. Ho fell face to the
ttoor.
Holland walked around the counter
and fired the four remaining shots Into
McCrorey's bnck. Then he walked
toward police headquarters. He was
met by a policeman, who disarmed him.
"Defend yourself." Holland said on
entering the cafe. Before McCrorey
tould move be began firing.
More Than Two Million Workers
Expeoted to Join in MayDay
Demands.
MANY NOW IN DISPUTES
Federation Officials Say In
creases Allowed 700,000
Men Makes Others Restive.
.Notwithstanding the fact that
wage increases aggregating $64,-
426,404 annuclly and benefiting
706,500 working men throughout
the country, will go into effect to
morrow, May Day labor unrest is
expected to involve an army of
American toilers more than twice
that size.
Officials of the American Fed
eration of Labor, who have records
showing that 336,550 working
men are already involved in pend
ing labor disputes, expressed the
belief today that this number
probably would be increased by
1,500,000 tomorrow.
This does not mean 2,000,000
will grion strike, hut reports from
110,000 international unions and
27,000 locals are said to show there
is dissatisfaction with working
agreements, wages, hours or con
ditions and that "this discontent
will find expression in one way or
another on May Day.,
UNREST IS WIDESPREAD.
, . ,.' -". .w-
From Maine to 'California, and from
Florida to Oregon the Federation has
received reports Indicative of unrest In
vsrloua forms.
.One, of the strongest factors In the
unrest, the Federation officials say. will
be the Increases granted to the 706,100
men. There are 3,000,000 unionized work
ing men In the United States. Tho
2.293.DO0 not affected by the Increases
are expected to voice their disappoint
ment over not being included, through
the medium of strikes, walk-outs, pres
entation of demands or In other ways.
'Os Labor Day the American working
man parades, but on May l he takes
(Continued on Fourth Page.)
Coal Mine Strike
, Not to Be Called
175,000 Anthracite Workers and
Operators Reach an
Agreement.
NEW YORK. April 30. There will
be no strike of the 176 000 anthracite
coal w.orl:ers. A tentative agreement
between the "miners and operators
was reached shortly bjfore 2 o'clock
this morning. ,
This agreement provides for formal
rncoirnltloh of tho miners' union, a.n
eight-hour day, a 7 per cent Increaso
for contract miners, and a 3 per cent
Increase for day workers.
This Increase, combined with the.
eight-hour day, really means a 12 per
cejit Increase for the day workers,
or In all a 15 per cent raise.
The agreement will not be officially
executed until It is ratified by the dis
trict board tomorrow' noon, and later
by tho trl-district convention In
1'ottsvllle. Pa., on Tuesday.
President John P. White of tho
union, said that every concession pos
sible had been made by both employes
and employers.
The miners waived their demand for
a check-off for the collection of union
dues by the employers and It Is said
mat mis concession paved the
for the understanding. .
way
Peons Mistaken
For Villa Bandits
Alarm Over Presence of 600 Hun
gry Mexicans in Lajitas
Subsides.
BAN ANTONIO, April SO.-Alam; over
the reported presenco at lajitas. In the
Mnrfa L'ordur patrol district, of 600
Vllllsta bandits has subsided, according
to Information rettcMtix here, by laok
of military conflnr.iition of the story;
Troopers ot the Fourteenth cavalry at
the direction of Major O. n. Jtyeivi, at
Marin. Htouied tno brush about I.aJltaa
and Terllnsuas.
It appears the rumor orlKlnatd from
the fact that a number of peons be
came iiwrerato for r.i.-cl and ctossed
the Rio Grande nt I.aJltns with k view
to wjii-Hnc aiul obfalnlne supplies to
sustain life. LonflnK In the town, their
numbor cave rl9 tc the tale f muny
bandits overrunning the stick and mud
village.
The Amnrluan Wo Orande towns aro
prone to ulnrm. A hlch civil ofnclal
hero from Pel Rio states the cltUims
there feel they are fHr from adequately
protected slr.ee tho four companies of
tho Twenty fourth Infantry were te
moved. Tl'ie toivn of Snri now hs but
125 soldiers and the people ar contem
plating acklriB for ir.llltlj unless Gen
eral Funstou glvos them more recular
troops at one.
WASHINGTON,
10,000 Washington Men and Women
Xjetting First Preparedness Lesson
nsj. ppppB .mm woMm . ii .Ai 9m.pmm
gBgSMpjpjlM ,.,, ,,rwTSr: WuEi0K&y im ;lll?tw$mi
wmM sum &$&&.. "'rvvi. l.v: r.mmmm
m4$&mj -':-' . a -v ,-- . .. . m ','',vhii
LjHyi. .5 Mi Win HB j . jKmJEL - - ,
mmminrm &-i:r shh-ih jmnnB.KN
sHLiiiiiiiiHiiiiliiiiiiiiHHRaiiiiiiSaiHin'?si
TftrF'9 " H MMi ' ' " iWWIl IT 1 '
I rw'" -xJkf' ,&KmRKKEm'Kk2i$:: 1 vo par 'iLn'r machino gun operators. .
1 VfY' ZJr SXm:m$tfvt elow Mrs. 0. j McCONNELL, wlioao husband Is a member; of tho
0 - 4 JfM jJMU&K' J'-MlmmwBLhlll 0aico of Marlota Club, and who is herself an enthusiastic worker.
, " -i MiSSSSSSVV9y V! ' 'tSH'1' BSSSISI' - --
ISlHl GLOOM CAUSED BY.GERARD TRANSMITS
fff"CsVX KUT-EL-AMUtA LOSS KAISER'S OPINIONS
t &f rlmiilBHdHtailVillllllS'.?vwv7VHF TlllMV! -
Above MRS. B. M. BOTTO, whoso husband Is in tho Office ofMarkets
Club. . ,
Center Members of the PostofTico Department and Department of
Justice Rifle Clubs on the firing lnc.
BeloTA,SJlfR BURKE McCONNELL and MASTER BILL WHITT
GRIFFITH, Betting a veteran to explain a real gun to them while
daddy is on the firing line.
People of All Classes and All Ages Flocking Daily to
Winthrop,Md., Where Only Free Rifle Range in
Country Is Maintained Wives Join Hus
bands in Learning How to Shoot.
There's a great big lesson in national preparedness being taught
to 10,000 Washingtonians men and women and boys alike at Win
throp, Md., thirty-two miles from the city.
While Congress is bickering over the kind of legislation needed
to place the United States upon a defensive plane with other first class
powers, these men and women are providing a very excellent example
of what the citizens of this country can do for themselves.
Upon, the only free rifle range in the country, where any one can
go, request a weapon, ammunition and instruction, and obtain it with
out question, they are learning how to handle the army service rifle.
A frail little wisp of a woman manfully blazing away at the targets
on the range last Friday, voiced the general sentiment of all her sex
who have visited Wintbiop.
The nine-pound Kfag which she was using had recoiled heavily,
but because she had held it perfectly, she was unhurt, save for a bit of
jolting.
"Hurt, honey?" her husband inquired anxiously.
"Not a bit," she replied, laughing. "This is the best spbrt I've
had in a long time.''
Another little woman who was not shooting, confided to the friend
with whom she sat back of the firing line: "I'm mighty glad John has
taken up this rifle business. Usually I can't get him to take enough
(Continued oB rase Twenty.)
SUNDAY EVENING,
wEr .'i, A MHHiB-wVm" tWrmWL
APRIL 80, 1010:
British Lines in France, as Well
as London, Sorrow Over
Townshend's Surrender.
The surrender of General Townshend
has cast a ploom over tho wldo-ilung
British lines on the French war ftont
as well as causing the deepest sorrow
in London.
Although the foroe hemmed In at
Kut-el-Amaru held out for 5 days and
save up only in the f.ico of starvation,
after spiking all guns and destroying"
a'. inuuunltlon, the surrender of a Hrlt
Ish font In so imusuul that tho effect
of the cullant resistance U almost nul
lified. Tho result of (tin canture will ha a.
further
blow to British nreittlirn
!!.r0.!ih.?yt th f8.' a,na11roy hov
ri... V.V. Z 4 . .' , ' " I Cablnot meeting,
f Ji.. r . M"'nf Inudf.iuate , Officials today were wholly in tho
ftoutht ho.ncTn'.h'l. vtla?.y ' wl".b0 durh nt to4he (fcrmu sovernnmnfa In
,.?!,.. V i,M?,i."10.,lin'j),sh..war "fee, tenilons. For this rcuson thev awaited
5j?rtie,r.l:is ,0 tho P'oMonia It nl- with untlciicu the report of tho Gerard
n it? .??...-... . . . .. ' Interview with the Umperor for the
to Tn.lrMr ',0"nt .MIcatlons point llht It Is expected to throw on tho Bit
to a iiaitlal, If not a total, abandonment uallon.
din , .,ti.f,uaJi,im'uV ?,rrtns'vo ,n Ver-, Officials closo to the President bald
iir JuiV tin 'hluJ' of ih ntUcU on the ' the lanpuuKe of the German note will
lirltUh lino it Arras. . have no efftct on this inuntrv'n r.r.1.
....!;? ,.'"iuL,..ru'i.Ur.''. Germun
attack.
I ni? liquids
M V" ".'J" UV?, no,n ot "lam.
Ids near thi Thliumont fnrm.
nl.,lU'.f,eus.0,'u"i thp iehccklns of , President demands la tielx" 'done and
,?n w?lVnVe.mi'tti0,?Ma,JItth,Fr'-'nc'it"at Otnimny will continue to llvo up
lines cst ot tho Mouso near Hill to theso demand. v
JJerlln announces tlmt i. rmmi. nitoi,.
at Dead Man's Hill wore repulsed.
Heavy German batteries In considerable
number have ben withdrawn from be
fore Vordunnnd sent against tho Eng
lish stretch of lino.
The Increasing losses of British offi
cers and men In tho last month show
the Germans have been attacking mora
Be,r.,.A,8iy,!!Iftn tho wnr reports indicate.
Tho British army of a million and a
half holds now forty additional miles of
tranche taken over from tho French
after tho latter withdrew 1D0.000 men for
reserves to meot the Verdun attacks.
..A,,T!?int V.olnt t0 n.i.l),B drlvo ngulnst
the British lino, possibly to forestall an
attack ui force by Blr Douglas Halg.
whoe nrmy, Is by this time ready for
action. y .
On the Rpsslan front tho Germans,
resorting tDl a mass attack, cRptured
Russian positions south of Lake Nurocz.
between Stahurocx and Btachowce, and
took 6,000 prltpners.
Lengthy Report From Envoy on
Conference Due Here To
night AWaited by Officials.
A Iencthy cablegram Is on the way
from Brrliii reporting In detail tho con
ference between Ambasnador fJernrd
and Emperor llllnm at Oerman army
headquarters.
This report Is expected to reach Wash
ington (luring the night. State Depart
ment officials believe It will glvo a
forecast of the German government's
reply to the American demands for
abandonment of present methods of
submarlno warfare.
It Is fully expected that the Hcrnmn
reply to the American note will reach
-nr-,iJA .... .hi. ...i. w.i.i..
,'in time for consideration at 'Tuesday's
tlon. Tliom Is no need for oxchaimo ot
i views, it la said. The German reply.
hov IihIpi n.n.t .hiw !, ...u.. Vif-
Thcro are few offlolHls nntlniluiln
enough l believe that Berlin's reply
will t-o n full compliance with this Gov
ernment's italics. tVhat 'h expected,
If favorable reports from Berlin Indi
cating n. rplrlt of conciliation are to bo
believed. Is ihat Germany will meet the
basic demand of the American note.
This Is thut it must '"declare and ef
fect mx abandonment of nresent meth
ods of kubin.trlno warfare,"
If such notion sliculd hn taken as a
condition precedent to tio sut-mlsslon
of any proposali, the way would be
paved for further discussion, providing
In tho meantime no new submarine at
tacks were mtds
President At Church.
Pirsldent nnd Mrs. Wilson nt'pn'lort
services nt Central Prebterlai. Church .
tcday. This afternoon they will motor
through the park.. I
PBIOE ONE CENT.
DEADLOCK ON
MEXICO; WILL
CONFER AGAIN
Obregon and Scott Fail ,to
Agree on Demand for With
drawal of U. S. Troops.
SCOn AWAITS INSTRUCTIONS
All American Forces Are. Con
centrated at Northern Chi
huahua Base.
EL PASO, Tex., April 30.-AfJ.
vices from the War Department at
Washington are awaited before s
second conference is entered into
between the military represent
tives of the United States and
Mexico.
Following their first conference
last evening with Gen. Alvero
Obregon and Gen. Jacinto Trevino,
of the Carranza army, Major Gen
erals Scott and Funstqn sent mes
sages to the War Department at
Washington covering the points,
gone over and asking for instruc
tions. General Scott stated this
morning that he was not yet pre
pared to ask for the second con
ference, the meeting having been
adjourned last night subject to his
call.
While reprcsRntat.ives of both
ff.
goverritoerifs assert Ihat the con
ference had been amicable and
satisfactory, and good feeling be
tween the conferees appears on
the surface, it is known that there
was a hitch- from the very begin
ning that continued throughout the
meeting.
SOUGHT COMPROMISE.
General Obrcjton, the Mexican minis
ter c.f war. Insisted that tho American
troops U withdrawn, and General'
Ecott. the American Chief of Staff, In
sisted cndci the clrccinMances this
could not be done at present.
It Is understood thut General Scott
offered nit tin alternative to keep the
American troops in cainp In Mexico, but
restrict their operations pending the out
come of tho Carranza campaign against
bandits, tut even this was unsatisfac
tory to Central OLrctron, who insists
that the mission of the American army
has been accomplished by thu scatter
ing of the bandit binds and that with
drawal should tako place ut once.
Obregon objected strongly to the dis
patching of furthet troops Into Mexico
at present or In the future and said,
with the mission of thu bandit cha30
ended, sucli action did not rctlict the
friendly feeling protested bv thu United
States toward Mexico.
While tho A:ner.:an officers or
Bwalting instructions from Washington,
before calling foe another conference,
the American army in Mexico is lnM
live. The final command of fenuting
men wim recalled yesterday to tho
Pershing birc. r.enr Pan Antonio. All
American forces are now concentrated
In campN In northern Chihuahua, in a
defensive position, awaltltij' tho out
coin of thu conference.
General Kunston will probably make
a tour along the line of communication
to the front to inspect tho American
forces and confer with General Pcrahlng
before ho returns to San Antonio.
Guard for Americans.
One of tho features of tho meeting In
Juarez between tho generals of the two
nations last night was the uncovering
of a machino gun In tho hall of tho cus
tom, house Just before Generals Scott
and Funston reached tho meeting place.
Tho machine gun Is kept In the hall of
the building all tho time, but Just as
Generals Scott and Funston arrived,
soldiers uncovered It, and as the gene
rals walked Into tho hall a belt of cart
ridges was fed In.
While the conference was In progress
soldiers remained near the gun, which
was kept ready for action. An officer,
when questioned about tho prepara
tions, said It was not desired to take
any ehances of Injury coming to tho
American guests, hence tho precautions.
U. S. Will Resist to Last
Demand for Withdrawal
Tho Vnlted Stales Government, will
reslu t, the last, demands of the Car
ranza government for withdrawal of
American troop. finin Moxlco.
MaJ, Ccn. Hugh L. Scott, Iruhl con
ferences with GcnerM Alvanj'fttfbrpzon
on the border will conslderpropOsals
for restricting American tr(opf inpve
mnnts, but will Hally reject all 'demands
for evacuation,
This heenmo known todiy, atler Gen
eral Scott had forwarded to Washington
a lengthy report on his Mrst conference
with General Obregon.
Secretary of War Baker refused to
discuss General Scott's report in the
slightest detail. Tho only statement he
woun auiiinruo wn in.it he was "in
c0!!'?:,"V,w',A.Cepf !?' , "f"-!'.
..!&! A!ir'inlV'e .A&?i?iVMm
ocneraf Scott has 'been gj'en" Instrac-
J
&)
&
T9
$1
5.1
r.
K.A
.'
H.I
l
.fe
