E ARIZONA REPUBLI
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SIXTH YEAR
21 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, SUNDAY MORNING, APRIL 30, 1916
24 PAGES
.VOL. XXVI, XO. 3J6
TEL
CAN
ANOTHER COLLOSSAL BLUNDER
THE HSOPOTANIAN
BREAKS DOWN ON TIGRIS RIVER
CAMPAIGN
CENSOR'S CRIP
If IRISH HS
Sumiuk-r of General Town- (yflfl GaitlS OH EdSt FrOUt;
SUI'IIU IU 11115 1UIKS Willi
13,000 Men After With
standing Siege of Nearly
Five Months
FACED WITH DEATH
BY STARVATION
The Ottoman Troops Had
Beaten Back Successive
Relief Expeditious Until
Supplies Were Entirely
Exhausted
No Changes in the West
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
Another phase of the ill-fatted Brit
ish campaign in Alesopmmiu has closed
with the surrender of General Town
shend and the garrison at Kut-El-Amara
on the Tigris river, about 130
miles below Bagdad. Some 13.000 men
in all laid down their arms to the Turks
after, having destroyed all their guns
and munitions.
The British Mesupotamiun campaign
waged along the Tigris from the Per- j defeated.
attempt to assault the French lines
west of the Aleuse neur z S ill 304. lierlin
announces that French attacks at
Deadman's hill and nearby were re
pulsed. On the Russian front the Germans
have captured Russian positions south
of Narocz lake and have taken O.BUO
prisoners including four staff officers,
together with one cannon. 28 machine
guns and 10 mine throwers. Russian
efforts to reclaim the lost ground were
Republican A. P. Leased Wire i
LONDON. April 29. Major General j
Cli'irics Townshend, commander of i
the British forces beseiged at Kut Kl
Amara. Mesopotamia by Turkish
forces since last December, has sur
rendered. This information was con
tained in a British official statement
ibBueC this afternoon.
The olficial statement added that
Gen. Townshend destroyed all his
guns and munition before surrendering-
It is estimated that the force sur
rendered consists of about 13,000 men.
The following official announce
ment waa made: '
"Atter a resistance protracted for
4:' days, and conducted with a gal
li.rtiy and fortitude that will be for
ever memorable. Gen. Townshend has
'een compelled by the final exhaus
tion of his supplies, to surrender.
"Defore doin.; so, he destroyed his
guns and munitions.
"The force under him consists of
2870 I-tritish troops of all ranks and
service and some 6,000 Indian troops
u nd their followers."
The stubborn defense of Kut Kl Am
ara and the ultimate disaster will live,
in the history of British operations
in the Far East, besides the desperate
defense of Khartoum against over
whelming odds by the hero Chinese
Goi don.
Like Gordon, Townshend has fought
a battle for existence against vastly
superior forces and has evidently held
on until further endurance became
impossible. The help that is ou the
'vay. like that which went to the snc
icr of Gordon, will arrive too lale and
Englands proud banner has been
dragged in the dust of a defeat that j
msht have been avoided.
Gen. Townshend probably wui
driven to surrender to avoid starva
tion of' his forces.
A recent official Turkish communi
cation said '.hat the tosi!.oii of th
sian gulf northward almost to the gates
of Bagdad, had as its chief aim the cap
ture of that ancient city. To divert
Turkish forces from Gallipot was an
other object. When almost at (he point
of achieving its main object last year,
the effort broke down at Ctesiphon. 18
miles from Bagdad when the Turks,
alarmed for the safety of the town of
fabled memory, rushed up reinforce
ments, inflicted a defeat upon the Brit
ish and compelled their retreat 110
miles down the Tigris to Kut-LI-Amara. Month's Casualties
u. tif.cn tha TnrL-o mum li'iil Ihnm wo- I .k- .
-..v.,, . c... ..-v. ......... uj.uu., .ipru .: lu.i.i a. in.
curely bottled up. British casualties this month as corn-
General Tuwnshen held out for 113 ,,jied from published lists are slightly
days, his supplies steadily growing low- jn excess of those In March. The total
er as he awaited the relief army which, j from a fwhs 0f operations is l,;r,s ot-
msi unuer i.ruerai rtjmici aim men ticers and 19.2jt null contoured with
Official statements were lacking dur
ing the day, Saturday, regarding the
situation in Dublin. Xews dispatches
report the military gaining the ascend
ancy but with the rehers still in posses
sion of important points, all of which
however, were declared to lie command
ed by the regulars. Fires of a serious
nature have broken out. according to
the current telegrams, and street fight
ing is continuing.
Only Olficial Reports of the
Sinn rein Outbreak Are
Permitted to Be Published
and House to House Tele
phone Conversation Cut
IT 18 ONLY CERTAIN
FRO UBL K WIDES PR K A D
Fighting Still Proceeding in
Dublin and Troops Are
Rushed to Other Centers
in the South Where Out
breaks Are Feared
Conferees Hopelessly Apart
On Army Increase Measure
The 250,000 Men Provision
STRUM ROCK
Minor Points of Difference
Senate Amendments, the
Federal Volunteer Re
serve and Government
Nitrate Plant
under General Gorringe. battled its way
up the Tigris toward him. This army
encountered strong positions of the
Turks below Kut-El-Amara on both
sides of the river and. although several
of these were carried it has not been
able to work much closer to the be
leaguered garrison than a score of miles
because of the stubborn Turkish resist
ance and flood conditions on the Tigris.
The situation about Verdun has not
undergone any change of note. Paris
reports the failure of a German attack,
pressed with the help of flaming liquids,
near the Thiaumont farm east of the
Sleuse and the checking of a German
COST OF STRIKE
$650,000 IN WAGES
1,107 officers and 19.317 men in March.
British Steamer Sunk
LONDON, April 30, 12:21 a. in. The
unarmed British steamer Teal of Lon
don has been sunk by a submarine. The
crew was rescued after having taken to
the boats.
Commerce Raider Abroad
NEW YORK, April 2!'. War risk in
surance both in this city and in Lon
don stiffened today as the result of a
report in financial circles that another
German commerce raider had slipped
through the British sea patrol.
THE CITIZENSHIP
1 OF THE FILIPINO
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
PITTSBURG. Pa.. April 29. Adver
tisements in the afternoon newspapers
announcing that the striking employed
.if the Westinghouse companies had
(Jready lost tillO.OOO in wages in theli
j effort to enforce the eight hour day.
made up the most important develop
ment of the most uneventful day since
(he strike was declared a weekago.
An older was issued bv the county
authorities closing the saloons in Brad
dock and McKeesport, to which places.
:,Vtsh at Kft-EI. Amara was critical was reported an effort would be made
and that they eie expecting to re
ceive small -U pi ts of food by aero
plane. An off it la! statement r.-ceived
ye:e'ciday fro;.i 1 ondon showed that a
last effort to -cnl supplies t the gar
rison had fnUd It was announced
that a ship liticn with luppli had
Vr.-n sent up '.he. Tigris th?t it had
been groundei 1 1 out four miles east
of ihe city.
Less than a score of miles away, on
tlifj oanks of Ihe Tigris river below
to extend the strike, and in AIcKee's
P.ocks, where the Pittsburg and Lake
Ei ie railroad shops were closed by a
strike of machinists yesterday, Jiro
located.
o
Republican A. P. Leated Wire
HONOLULU. April 29-The first
f'llipitio lo be naturalized in Honolulu
received his jtapers in uccordahc- with
a recent decision bv Federal Judge
demons allowing Filipinos to secure;
American citizenship but denying nat
uralization to Japanese.
A;ting under instructions received
1rom Washington the district a'tornty
here protested against the Issuance of
the naturalization ;Jaiers. but was
overruled em the basis of a previous
decision. Notice of appeal was en
tered l. the district attorney.
o
AUDIENCE NOT IN ACCORD
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WATERFORD. Ireland. April 28.
p. m. (Via London. April 29, 9 p. m.i-
Southern Ireland today was in the
grip of a stern military censorship
which virtually cut it off from all
news of th- stirring events now n.--cimin'j
in Dublin. The newspapers
here have been permitted to publish
only the briefest official reports.
Even telephonic communication from
house to house has been forbidden.
The sii nation here is said to be a
ood example of the conditions pre
vailing under military rule In other
sections of Ireland.
Wulerford hears that Dublin is sur
rounded by a great cordon of troops
and that railway traffic from south
ern Ireland to Dublin has been sus
pended, us far as tile public is con
i eri.eil lieyong iioinls approximately
2i miles from the city. Various dis
quieting bur unconfirmed rumors re
garding evnts in various parts of the
country outside of Dublin have been
received by wold of mouth. With a
these report, however, is coupled the
tateinent that the military have the
situation Well iti hand and that spo-
ra nc outbreaks have b-en quickly
crushed.
The Sinn Fein, which is credited
with fathering the uprising has an
organization of considerable exten:.
but it is said to be strongest in Cork,
Kerry. Wexford and Dublin, of these
organisations that of Wexford ap
pears quite active, but oi'k is said to
le iniet. No report has been re
ceived here from Kerry. Waterford
lias only a small body of Sinn Fein-
ers but every precaution is hein
taken. Th ? postoffice. which controls
tile wires to London, wa.s guarded all
hist night by a large body -if police.
an I the big bridge over the river was
lifted, presiimablv to prevent a pos
sible invasion of the main section of
the town from the direction of Wex
fcr.l. On every hand one hears of queries
for news and strong condemnation for
the revolutionists.
SUICIDE OF AN INVENTOR
P. Leased Wire
Mass., April 29.
Republican A
WORCESTER,
Flunk O. Woodland, years old, in-
he city, is a telief army which for i ventor of automatic machines for
labelling bottling ant! for banding
cigars, in general use all over the
country, committed suicide today in
his home by taking poison.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LNION. April 29. 5 p. m Noel
I'emberton-Billing. the former army
aviator who was elected to the house
of commons on an aviation service
reform program recently, met with
Rebels Stronghold Gone
LONDON. April 30. 1:20 a. m
Field Marshal Viscount French, com
mander of the home forces, reports
thit the geiienU postofflce at Dublin
which has been the principal strow
hold of the Sinn Feir.ers has Lr?:i
burned down. Conelly one of the
leaders of the rebels is reported to
have been killed.
Many of tile rebeis have been taken
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, April 2J. Conferees
of the house and senate after three ' i
i:iv'r rlf liberation on the ftrnrw reor- I Li
ginization bill the first of the big pre
paredness measures, have come to a
complete deadlock over several im- j
porta nt features. It wa.s strongly in- j
muted tonight that they would re
port a disagreement and ask their
lespective branches of congress for
further instructions. '
"Hopelessly apart" on the size of the(
legular army and the proposals for a
vilurletr it-serve army and a govern
ment nitrate plant, was the report of
one member of the conference tonight
and lie declared congress would be
asked in the near future to pass again
on these fe-itures of the measure.
The senate conferees are Insisting
determinedly upon the provision In the
senate bill for a regular army of 250,
omii men and Uepresentative Kahn, the
republican house conferee is standing
with them. Representatives Hay and
Dent, however, are insistent upon the
house pro'-ision f'r 140,000 men.
Representative Kahn pointed out to
the conferees today that his amend
ment for an army of 200,000 had been
defeated by only a small majority
whe.-i the house had the bill under
consMen.tii.n. Since that time "big
army" men contend, international de
velopments have caused a change of
feeling on the part of many represent
atives. Some administration leaders
think that the house might now be
brought to accept the 250,000 senate
proposal should the conferees fail to
nsree.
it was sunt tonight that should ai
Disagreement ic reported the senate
night agre-e to give up its veilunteer
army plan and accept instead the na
tional goar.l reserve provision of the
house bill and might also abandon the
government nitrate p'ant provision
which, it is conceded, generally, never
will be accepted bv the house.
Flood Control Program
WAWI.INGTON. April 29 A five
year improvement and flood contred
program for the Mississippi and Sacra
mento rivers :s provided for in a bill
favorably reported to the house today
by the flood contreil committee. It ap
propriates :s;.0C0.O00O for the Mississ
ippi and - .600,000 for the Sacramento
to cover work during the five vears.
The measure makes no provision for
a federal waterways ccuncil, which a
special committee recommended to dis
tribute appropriations and supervise
the improvement work.
"In its report the eommittee esti
mnted that the requirements of the
Sacr imento were a total of J9.000.000
annually. It was suggested that a
great part of the appropriation would
go to the removal of debris deposited
by hydralulic mining. The committee
was toll that the deposits were greatly
humlicipping navigation, and that
federal aid would not only make the
Sacramento and San Joaquin valleys
accessible tej water commerce but
would make possible the protection of
A million and a quarters of acres of
fertile '.p.nd from flood.
o
I I
TO VOTE ON WAR !
I
j WASHINGTON, April 29. Sen- j
I ator La Follette texlay introduced j
I a bill providing for an advisory
I vote by the people as to whether
the United States should declare
! wur against any nation with whom j
I the president has severed diploma- !
I lie relations.
PROPOSED COMBINE
SOCIALIST FORCES
Republican A. P. Leased Wirej
NKW YORK, April 29 The Social
i. t-Labor party at the opening session
of the lotirteenth national convention
today appointed a committee headed by
Frank Zermann eif Illinois which will
beciele whether to accept or reject
a proffer from the socialist party to
join forces in the coming presidential
campaign. The socialists in a recent
lefereneium vote favored this plan of
unity after turning iown a similar eif
fer from the socialist -lalior party six
years tpo.
If the socialist-labor party decides
to join with the socialists the hitter's
presiii-.-ntial ticket is expected to be
endorsed during the present conven
tion, vvhnh will continue, tomorrow.
Arthur Reimer of Poston was elected
temieiaiy chirman today.
A platform committee, elected today
includes Donald Monro and V. H.
Mills of Virginia, Arthur Reimer of
Boston and Riehter of Michigan. In
teriuitioi.iil sm. preparedness, and na
tional di ferse are subjects ex(iecteel to
be dealt with in the platform.
ftT THE OUTSET
IFCIHRE1E
General Obregon Required
by His Instructions to
Limit Discussion to tho
Question of Withdrawal
or American Troops
SESSION" BRIEF
AND FRUITLESS
Americans Furnished Witli
Program Involving- Occu
pation of Mexican Zone
Until Villistas and Other
Pandits Are Disposed of
MEASURES TAKEN
FOR N. Y. DEFENSE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK. April 29 Active
me-asuies for the defense of the city
in cpse of disaster or attac k will he
undertaken by Mayor Mitchel's com
mittee on national preparedness in
cooperation with municipal and stat!
authorities, it was announced today by
Chairman Cornelius Vanelerbilt A!
sub-committee has been apoinled to
cooerate with the police department
in recruiting the Home Defense league
which already has a, membership of
f.,000 and which it is proposed to in
crease to 22.000. It Is planned to pro
vide military and police instructions
for members of this league.
o
GOVERNMENT STRIKE OFF
rnovhs has l'.n attempting t reach
the IcseigeJ foices of Gen. T.iwn
sl end. Of late the Turks' resistance
l.iis increase! and, aided by foods,
they h-ave bo';n 1 1 le to hold the bri-
ish in check. " r.ra. Beseiged bv a large army of
No official figmes have be-n gi en Turks, the British defended them-
out as to tt.'.- number of troops which I selve so successfully that the Turks
left Iho PerVM.i gulf in Nov;miw of jat length decided to starve them out.
1'14 rtn the evptlition which hat now After it became evident that th
nded in surter.der. Unofficial'..- the army at Kut-El-Amara would be un
numlwr ha:i len t-ftimated as htf.n us 1 aWe to fignt Us way out, a relief ex
D0,(00, but U v aj probably cop.sidcr- l edition was dispatched. As it drew
ably smaller than thid. This force has near Kut-Kl-Amara it was opposed by
Buffered heavy losses in severe hat- formidable bodies of Turks and its
ties with the Turks advance was stopped. The Turks, tak-
The surrender of Gen. Towshend ! ing the offensive, pushed back tht
some opposition in addressing u mav prisoner and the revolt in Dublin is
meeting in Albert hall today on the.on the vers- ,,f collapse. In the rent
question or iierial sui.remacy. Mr.' of Ireland the- situation generally Is
T-emberton-Billings- criticisms cf the satNfactorv.
government met with emphatic oppo-j . .
sition from a small portion of th Overlooked a Wire
dudienee. who made- it evident thafj DUBLIN April 29. lo p. m. Baron
they were not in agreement with hi AVimborne. lord lieutenant of Ireland,
remarks vvilh regard to the govern
ment's eor.duct of the war. and epie-
I tioning his flnceiity in his critical at
titude.
is on? of the few instances of the war
In which an entire fighting unit of im
portant numbers has h id down its
snns.
It is one of the largest bodies of
troops of tho entente allies that, have
si'i renci -red and 1'iiger than any other
captured French or British force.
Ear'.y in December of mst year Gen.
Townshends army wbb beaten in bat
tle at Ctesiphon, eighteen miles below
Bagdad, and retreated to Kut-El-Am-
British and inflicted large losses on
them.
Throughout the Mesopotamia!) cam
paign the fighting has been heavy and
the losses severe. On April 14 it was
admitted the Tigris army up to that
time hud lost 8100 men. In one cb
pagement alone, at Beitsea. on the
right bank of the Tigris, a few miles
below Kut-Kl-Amara, the Britsh lost
4O00, according to an announcement
from the Turkish war office last week
KENTUCKY PROGRESSIVES j
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
r
expressed to The Associated Press at
the vice regal lodge today the assur
rance that the sec'itious movement
would be suppressed in the ronrse of
a few days
The viceroy cas full of praise for
the loyalty displayed by the great ma
jomy or rue lnsn people and eon-
LOULSVILLK, Ky., April ir. Tin siaereit the momentary success gained
progressive state convention in ses-iHrid 1ne damage done by the rebels
Bion here tonight elected eight dele-!3,4 "n" wllf'11 viewed in coneetlon
gates-at-larse to the national eonven- wi,h the s"rrrise of the outbreak and
tion at Chiengo and adooted a resu- ,h" evident preparations mide for it.
lution reaffirming adherence to the' The country outside of Dublin, ex
progressive national platform of 112! 'f'1 for a fnw isolated places has, he
and instructing the Kentucky doleca-! declared, remained peaceful.
tion to vot. for Theodore Rooweit Baron Wimhorne when requested lj
for
l Republican A. P. Leased Wire
UiU'LDER, Colo.. April 29. A jury
bbs secured late today in the trial of
Rienzi Dickens, charged with the mur
der of his father, Y. H. Dickens, a
Longmont hanker, on November SO
1st. Six days had been consumed in
the impanelling ef a jury, during
which time 20 veniremen were called
and 90 examined.
The trial will lie resumed Monday
with the opening statement bv the
prosecution.
the presidential nomination.
(Continued on Page Two)
AWA T NG WORD F ROM GERMAN
I
AS 10111
I
International Morality
Is Not a Law of Nations
JURY AT LAST
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SKWARD. Alaska. April 29. Tiie
strike of workmen on the Anchorage
division of the United States railroad
for higher wages was declared off to
day. The men will return to work
Monday.
The arrival at Anchorage of union
men from points along the Matanuska
branch who favored acceptance of the
scale fixed by the wage arbitration
board placed the Anchorage men who
had been opposing acceptance in the
minority, making settlement of the
strike an easy matter. Twelve hun
dred men were Involved in the strike.
Only minor points remain to be ar
bitrated. These include alleged dis
criminations against certain men and
the question of back pay since March
4, when the men returned to work
after the first strike.
A WORLD COURT
PREPAREDNESS IN SWEDEN
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
STOCKHOLM. April 29. (Via Lon
don. 10:3.', p. m.) The Swedish gov
ernment has asked the riksdag for a
vote of 40,000,000 kroner for the army:
12,2"i0.00. kroner for Ihe navy, and
4,000.000 kroner for hastening the
construction of destroyers and sub
marines. The army expe:itiiture is
oropoeed principally for the heavy ar
tillery, engineering and suply ser
vices and for the equipment ef the
landsturm.
1
ROOSEVELT TALKS TO
ILLINOIS LAWYERS
Reoublican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK. April 29. More than
1,000 delegates representing every sec
tion of t he country are expected to at
tend the second world court congress
to he held in this city May 2. i and
4. Former 1'resident William H. Taft,
honorary president of the World
Court League, under whose auspices j
the congress has been called, will de
liver an address on "The Supreme
Court of the United States as a pro- j
totype of the world court,'" in which
he will sound the keynote of the
movement to establish a tribunal for
all the nations of the earth to insure
universal and permanent peace.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
EL lJASO, Texas, April 29. Two
conflicting propositions developed im
mediately after the beginning, in the
Mexican customs house in Juarez kite
this afternoon, of the first conferncu
to decide the future disposition of tho
American expeditionary fences in
Mexico. They are understood tempo
rarily to have increased the gravity of
the negotiations.
The initial meeting was held behind
closed cioors in the big given-tinted
room which Erancisco Villa used as
his council chamber when he domi
nated northern Mexico and Juarez
was his headquarters. General lluh
L. Scott and Ereelerick Eunston rep
resented the United States. The Alex
icuti conferees were General Alvaro
i Obregon, Mexican minister of war. and
General Jacinto Trevino, military
commander of the northeast distric t
of Mexico.
The progress of the negotiations
wa.s not divulged, but from an author
itative source two things were learm-d:
First, that the Mexican representa
tives reiterated the wish expressed in
General Carranza's recent note to tho
Washington government that !ii
American troops should be withdrawn
from Mexican soil at an early date;
second, that they were informed by tho
American officials that the latter wern
not empowered to discuss the- with
drawal of General Pershing s column:;.
It is understood the American rep
resentatives told the Alexican con
ferees that if the de facto government
insisted on an American evacuation,
the conference would ge into a eieacl
lock and the whole matter would re
vert to a diplomatic discussion be-
I tween Washington and Mexico City.
The Mexicans further were informed
that the purpose of the present Confer
ence, so far as the United State-s is
concerned, is the development of a
specific plan for the co-operal ion iif
the American and de facto armies in
wiping out the bandit groups that
have spilled so much blood along tho
border and have repeatedly taken
American life in the interior of
Mexico.
It is understood that General Obre
gon. the Alexican minister of war, prior
to the exmference openly expressed a
disinclination to discuss any other
subject than withdrawal, and that he.
carried this attitude into the initial
meeting.
After the primary issues had been
broached, however, he is reported to
have carried out the intention he an
nounced shortly after his arrival on
Friday, of meeting Generals Scott and
Funston "half way" in the negotia
tions. The attitude of secretiveness main
tained by the officials taking part in,
the conference gave rise to all sorts
of speculations in El Taso tonight.
Alexican officials declared their inten
tion of allowing the Americans to do
all the talking. The latter refused all
out the most inconsequential informa
! tion regarding developments,
j In well informed quarters, however,
the opinion was freely expressed fhat
the present negotiations are unlikely
to lead to any definite disagreement,
it was pointed out that the Carninfci
government could not afford to tako
any step that would endanger its
(Continued on Page Three)
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, April 29. No defi
nite word forecasting Germany's decis
ion in the submarine controversy has
reached Washington tonight and offi
cials apparently were almost as much
in the dark regarding the outcome as
they were when the American demands
were dispatched to Berlin eleven days
ago.
It was said, however, that a report
from Ambassador Gerard regarding his
conference with the emperor was mo
mentarily expected. The secretary said
that when the report arrived it was
doubtful whether its contents would
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. April 129. Oppor
tunity for the United States to cham
pion and uphold now and after the
European war ends the fundamental
principles of international' law was the
through international law. But when
world wide opinion is formed there will
be a force that will be found ample
against a recalcitrant nation for vio
lation of international law.
"Broad humanitie.s underlie the notes
theme of addresses at a bunuet tonight that have come from our state depart-
be made public until after he had pre
sented It to President Wilson for his
confirmation. Should it come in to
morrow the dispatch probably will not
be given out until Monday, if then.
The German embassy also was with
out information on the subject. Press
dispatches quoting a Berlin newspaper
as saying that the German reply, which
will decide whether diplomatic relations
between the two governments shall be
severed, had been drafted and would
be delivered early next week were read
with Interest. Alany officials were in
clined to doubt whethe rthere had been
time since the conference at army head
quarters to prepare the note.
closing the tenth annual meeting of the
American Society tf International law
Robert Lansing, the secretary of state,
made the prlm:ipal address at the ban
quet which followed a business session
when Elihu Root was re-elected its
president.
Judge George Gray of Deleware ex
pressed the belief that moral rather
than armed force wilf evolve a concert
of International authority after the war
for preservation of peace.
Regarding the formation of a wbrld
court, with international police power.
Judge Gray said: "I do not think there
will ever be such a concert of nations
that by armed force they can force a
nation to obey mandates of morality
PRELUM PDLITEHESS
AS
11
0 1
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. April 29. The oni.V
ment m the past year. The necessity
for the restraint of power, that inter
national law may impose on the family
of nations, is of the same kind that'
rests on individuals In a democratic
government.
"We hear it said that international
law has perished and is a myth of tho
past. I do not think so. Let us hope
that this country will proclaim inter
national morality, that no nation can
violate it with impunity without isola
tion in the family of nations."
"Preposterous dogmu," was how
David Jayne Hill, former ambassador
to Germany, described the European
theory that, by might of right a nation
may do as it pleases.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO. April 29. The declaration
by Theodore Roosevelt in his address
tonight at the banquet of the Illinois
Bar Association that the ultimate an
swer to the question of preparedness in
this country must be universal training,
was greeted by a storm'of cheers.
Colonel Roosevelt was visibly affect
ed by the demonstration and declared
that it put heart into him and that he
would go out und preach that doctrine
with his head up and with increased
confidence. It is said, it was the most
largely attended banquet given by law
yers since the dinner of the. New York
Bar Association three years ago.
Colonel Roosevelt discussed the pres
ent world war crisis, and though the
dinner was non-political, he gave his
views as to what he considered the duty
of every citizen 4n these trying times
and the course this country should pursue.
the military aspect of the situution
at the border and beyond can be for-
! nmllv .-r.Twi.ter.r lv the conferees.
dispatch to the war department macl-ai An indic.uion of' the spirit in which
public tod'iv was one from Majorl General Obregon came to th Confer -tteneril
Hugh L. Scott, chief of staff. I em.e jH found in advices that when
reporting his call on General Alvaro : he passed through chihuahua he orel-
Obregon. the Carranza war minister
last night, at Juarez, and adding that
the visit had been a pleasant one.
Officials construed it to indicate that
General Scott himself was impressed
with the idea that a satisfactory un
derstaneling could be reached with
General Obregon us to future move
ments of troops in pursuit of villa. j
Secretary Baker again declined to dis
cuss the scope of the mission as
signed to General Scott at the furth
coming conferences with General Ob
regon. Since the whole question of Car
rar.za's formal suggestion that the
American forces be withdrawn is a
state department matter and never
ras been officially transmitted to the
war department, it is clear that only
ered released all supplies shipped
from the border for the American
troops and detained by Carranza com
manders, e.leneral Scott umiuestlon
ably would have asked that this bo
done had not the war minister al
ready taken ihe necessary step. It is
understood the shipments now are
goiijs forward.
State denaJlment advices reported
quiet in Mexico City and elsewhere ia
Alexico although about seventy Amer
icans are gathered at Afazatlan and
Manzanillo on tho west coats, await
ing transportation to the United
States. The department bad 1101111113
to confirm rumors that the presenru
cf American troops in Mexico was
creating a crisis for the vie facto gov
ernment at tho capital.
