J$tm.
r
TH
.FORECAST. "1
IT SHINES FOP, ALL
Trutud
trW; partly cloudy
I ' 1
to-morn
uincny winas.
Highest
day, 77; lowest, 64.
lictiiilrd W,
lit murine epulis on pugi 1.
V.
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 273.
NEW YORK, TUESDAY, MAY 'SO, 1911). Cowtuht, HUfi. ly the Hun i'riuflrii; unit I'ublUhtna Afsocintlon,
PIUCE TWO CENTS.
GERMANS WIN
328 YARD LINE
JAMES J. HILL DIES AFTER ACTORS WILL JOIN CALLS TENNESSEE PEACE SPEECH RESENTED G. 0. P. LEADERS
iviuny tKth hRUM PAIN LABOR FEDERATION OFFICERS RIOTOUS BY ENTENTE DIPLOMATS, vmm Nnw Tn
OFFICERS RIOTOUS
BY ENTENTE DIPLOMATS ,
w - inn
7T
WEST OFJEUSE1
Hcii.v Kiilitinr Marked by
tlio Jlcpubi' of Many
Teuton Attacks.
KKK.NTir IXELICT
SKMOUS LOSSK
Harrier Fire Halts Teuton;
Assaults iu tlii' Bois
des Corbeaux.
frerln1 1 Mr tittitnteh In Tnr Si v
Pah s May 2?. Two henxy attacks
wttf made by the German last night
uJ three nioie to-day on the French
frW. from Hill 301 to Cumlerra. on
Y west bank of the Mouse. In the final .
ff.it Herman forces debouching from
t.10 Hols des Corbeaut occupied French '
dv.i iced trenches on a front of 300 j
mei es iSIS yards) northwest of the vil
lage of Cutuleres. With this exception,
the several attacks were repulsed with
hnvy losses to the assaulting troops.
The whole French front on the west
bark of the river, from the llois d'Avo-
iirt to CumiercF, w.ih kept under an
Intense bomb.iidment from the Herman
hfAxy art.lUry throughout the day. The
Infant 1)' dlil not take part In the nc-
n. in until .1 11 clock thlu ufterfinnn t li.,ji
a l.eay attack was launched aualnst ""weal skill that Mr. Hill's wealth
the French positions at Hill 304. This l'ouM command was callid upon to serve
ttaik w.? rtpulsed and was repeated 1 ,llm- "r w J- -Mao and Dr. C. II.
lo houis later, with no mote success I .'jayo Joiirne)td fiom Hochesler by siw
Mil with heavy hwse to the enemv! ,-la ,ral" 10 operate on .-lin last Frld.iy.
The eastern part of the line, which had I)r Hermann M H!gs. New- Yoik State
bm subjected to the Intense artillery 1 "mlsloner of Health, was rushed
rrtp.irati.41, between l.e Mort Homme '; '"""I.
nj CJinuies. was the n..t objective Ur Stanley Seener of Rochester as
tf the Crrm.m Infantry, which here had '"l"d Mnyos. Ir .1 S. Clltlll.in. for
bren lon'entratid In the Hols des Cor
l(.iux. The French barrier tire broke
ic.v.'i the Herman assaultnu waves on
this . 'or, as it had done further west,
txiepi at the point to the northeuet of
Cumtrres, wheic the .ermaiis were able
to enter and hold the 300 meters of
trenches.
The iilllrl.il communique issued by the
War I'lll.'e to-nlcht follows.
On the left bank of the Meuse the
ti.my dlrectel throughout the day an
Intense lioinhardnicnt with shells .of
larite calibre ni::iint our tlrst and sec
ond lines from the Hois d'Avocourt
to C'umleres. Almut 3 o'clock this
fternoon the Herman attacked vlo
Itntly our positions at Hill 301. lie
iu1mI the first time with considera
ble iosM-s the enemy renewed hit ef
fort at J o'clock this afternoon and
suffered another cottly check.
Knemy concentrations reported west
of 111!) 30t xv eie taken under the fire
of uur batteries and dlsersed.
lietween I.e Mort Jlomme nnd Cu
m.eres a stronv enemy attack debuueh
Ir.c from the llols des Corbeaux was
broken d.iwn by our barrier (ire, ex
cept ai one olnt, where the enemy
sa ned a footins on a front of 300
tretc:' i3:x anls) In one of our ad
. ,ii ed Hi m iles northeast of C'u
m cres
the rluht bank of Ihe Meuse
'hi e wis violent artillery tire In the
"i. '. i.im ;.nd xvest of Fort Douau
tn n'
Tin- e i no important event to re
fe o l ie rest of the front except
' us 1.1I , annonade. which was par-
ui ! Iiv 1 In the forest of Apre
n 1
II '"1 f the attacks of last nluht were
n ne om the Hols des 'orbe,iu, one
V 7 o 1 lock and the other Gt midnlRht.
Hi'h '.lied when ihey came under the
V ' barrier .wid mitrailleuse lire.
I bere was 1 oiislderahle nerlal activity
)i 'erd.iy Five tiennan machines were
r ejri.it down at various points of lha
fr' in
Tl' afternoon coiumuniiiuf was as fol
low -
S' u n of l.iive. In the retrlon of Heu
v 1 r it French artillery overwhelmed
the nrit line Herman oiuanlzatlon.
i the left bank of the Meuse both
Hie It nch and Ihe Herman artillery
en- active last night Yesterday
ever hi; at T o'clock a Herman attack
11 Iv.i
w a 1
a t
r -v
,iik from the Hols des Cm beaux
"mpletcly lepulsed by our cur
f lire and the lire of our nit'l
A second vlBorous attack dellv
.) about uildnlKht In Ihe same
s also wai driven hack
'he rmht bank of the river the
passed in relative calm except
e region of the Fort of Vauv
'mi' was xery spirited artillery
lo.
1!
f Bl.'inir
I', Luraiim xve dispersed a stronif
fnni.an reconnoltrliiK party In thu
j-Vei - cif Parroy.
Fre-nh plinth yesterday ilelixcred
ff"i 1 attacks upon Herman aero
Two of the enemy machines
ei.' brought down. One fell tlamlnc
re ihe ulire of thu Anronne Forest,
'e.i; Mnnthtrs. and the others camo
".'. a the rc irlon of Aml-Fontalne, lo
Ihe north of 1 lerry-au-Hac
U'h.le one of our pilots was making
i,.t HlKht he was atlnckeil In the
it on north of Ihe Itivcr Alsne. by a
'" ..111 Fokker Tile enemy machine
li ...1 over a thousand shots at the
F'ueh aviator Fuder tho hall of
bii, n, .mi m splto of tho fact that
' h 'na 'hine was virtually cut to pieces
bv th's lire, the French aviator sue-
-uleii in KettliiR back to our lines, fol-'-v.e.i
hy his adversary Another
Ft em b iiiachlni' came forward and at-
k, d tin- (ii'i iiian Me was not inoro
" 1 thirty ards distant, and was
. Khi to the earth at a point near
I l uoirne. west of Ithelms
'li Ihe left hank of the Sleuse can
' it oiiiiteil on automobiles brought
" . iwo Oerman iieinplanes the first
'ii of Avoiouit ami the second In
' e (i, reet on of Forges
CI'UHWKS ATTACKS FAIL
lieriiiitiiK deport French Xlleiupla
Were Inrffeet l e.
Pi
r i
vri lnidnn. Slay
2!i The
i iii'nln two Weill attempts lust
t recapture the village of Cu
..n tlie west bank of the Mciim.
itt,ic(H wete input 'ed easily
..tilile.v lighting ot both banks
lelise III 111! Velilllli legion eoli
th the same lolcnci
. in in slati itiftil i.tl
v lUllllitlll s W hit l lip he
I'iitlm.u oil Jlilul 1'il'JC,
Kail load Ituildoi- Tiiron
snoiis at Kml Hjs
Family at Itodsiile.
i.kavks $ioo.ono.ooi)
KOHTUNK AT LEAST
Sr. P.u t, May 23. Jamr .1 11111 ,ii..i
t 0:30 o'clock this morning at Ills hnniu
n .Summit avenue. Ill, funeral will take'
i.....e at i r. m. Wednesday, when for
II vi minutes every activity of the (Jnat
.Northern llallroa.l will l,e Mopped In
tribute to ItH creator.
J"-. "in i,n.i been unconscious sine s
1 " llo" la't evening, and even btfuic that
time tin- attending ploslcnnu had des
paired of his ncovery. At his bedside
"hiu lie died were right of his nine. rhU.
ilren. U,uls W. mil of St Paul, James
V Hill of New York. Walter Hill of Hal.
lock. Minn.. .Mrs, Ueorge T Slade. Mis
Hgll Hoeckin.uin and Mrs. Michael Covin
of New York. Mrs Samuel Hill of Wash-
liiKton and Mis Clara Hill, The widow
was also with her husband when he died
Mis. Alison M Heard of Ntw York was
the only absentee She nrrlved about an 1
nwui aiiiT ncr lamer had tiled.
I
Hull Mnrta Fntnl I Urn...
It was but a minor a II Hunt wh.ch
eventually ended the lift of the man who
built railroad systems where other men
said they could not endure. Mr. Hill
comp.ulned on May 17 last that he was
anno.ved b .1 ,mall boll which had up.
peared 011 his upper right thigh. Incoii
sequential in Its Inslp' 1 staKC. the Infec
tion took on scilous pioportlons ar.d
poisoning developed,
ror me last week the best medical
many ears Mr Hill's family physician.
was in inarKe of the case. Dr. Vx .1
Mao was In attdidance yesterdax-, but
when he left at ? :30 last night he 'shook
his head upon belnir asked about Sir.
Jllll's condition and said. "CSraxe, xery
r.xe." Dr. Sl.iyo conveyed the liii-
1 presslun at that time that there was no
hope of prolonBlnc .Mr. Hill's life. The
srave rondltlon of Sir. Hill's Illness was
I furtlier Indicated yesterday by the pres-
lefce In the Hill home of the Hev. Thomas
J Hibhons. Vlcar-Hetieral of the dlocesa
1 of Si. Paul.
I "The end came quietly." said the offl
j clal statement. ".Mr. Hill became un
conscious a fen hours before. There
were no death asonies."
I'.lyslcian.s later reiterated their opln-
GERMANS TO BE FED '
BY CENTRAL KITCHENS ,
Food Dietntor's Plan to
Acted on lty Keielistnu:
Immediately.
Hi.ri.in. via London. May If" Pentral
kttthens operated hi the municipal
1 authorities as 11 means of rllmlnatliw
waste will be adopted thimighnut 'er
iiiany. Adolj h von lt.iockl, the new "fisid
dictator." aiuounced to-day to the niem
beiiH of the M'ii) nnd Means Committee
of the Itelclistai; that In order to put the
plan Into ijieedy vvorkltiR order a bill for
the expi iK.es of orKatilzlmt anil operatlnK
the kitchens will be Introduced lminedl-
aieij ill ine iieici,n.iK.
The Prussian (loverrimeiit has issued a
TUSSl.in 1 lOvernioeill lias irwiueu
decree forbidding local authorities ln
rural iiisiricis irom proiiiiniiiiK ioe '
portation of foodstuffs from these dlu-
truts. nils practice nas oeen on 01
reasons for Ihe scarcity of meat and
other supplies In the large cities
The decree points out that the pro-
duclng dlsti lets cannot be favored oyer
other sections of the country, and adds
that no one may expert to live as before
the war
Herr von Ilatorkl said to. day that he
believed that the crcti prospects were
very gocd. and ill this he Is supported
by n ports nu crop conditions through-
out the ounlry, which so far are very
good
'
GERMAN CROPS DAMAGED.
llenvy liOeti t'unl by Flnml and
llallstorins.
Sprrliil fnhlr Htipatch to The Six
Amstkiuiam, Slay 29. Ore.it damage
i has been done to the crops in Hcrmany
b) hallstoims and floods In various sec
tions of Germany.
I The principal damage was done In the
districts of Dresden, Chemnitz, Zlttau
and the Kibe Valley.
'
HUGHES EVEN MONEY CHOICE.
nuun ci
lloosevell S to S ami Hoot st In I
In Curb llettlntt.
Chester Thompson on the cuib market
reports that the betting odds on the
coming convention are as follows.
On Hughes even money that he will
be nominated. The odds against House
veil are to 3, against Hoot 8 tn 1,
while mi others the odds run from 1.1 to
i in r.n to I
Thompson says that ?22,00n has been
hint to N'e' Vork from Chicago, llostou
'nnd Philadelphia, which will ho placed
Ion Hughes, with about $2.1, nun to be bet
on ItOOSeveil,
T. R. LEADS WILSON IN POLL.
, lln an More Votr In the Detroit
! ConteH.
IH.tiioit. Slay 21'. In Hie slraw voto
contest for Presidential prefeienco
conduiiid bv local newHpnper, Itoote-
veil Jumped Into the lean lo.tiay. lln now
. T ...... . ...r,.. .1..... 1lIUnn
Wilson,
tl It Si llliri) -IIV" Vines ill"!.' I
Ills gain ror tne any neing imy
Factory votes again show WlNon to
hi a fining favorite, while tho downtown
.line tniiliili g'i ale still dlspla)ilig nu
npiil siieiiglli for lloosevell
T.,o .ii it I vote lolled Is 1.1, STI Of
Ihesc I loose vel I has i.n.'S, Wilson fi,'juu
and lluglits J.iiU.
James J. Hill.
ion tin' Mr,
tliiiniKli tin
Ills .me. tx
II II
u r.it
Uld I. IV
1 c:r It
,xed
for
.Mr. Hill's Wealth. j
Mr llill wealth I" est.nute,! all the ,
way fiom JlOO.ooo.nnn to :inn,noo.o0o.
It is riobablv nearer the former r,.r,. 1
Ihan Hie latter The lust estimate of
Sir. 11,11 s wealth was obtained when
the Uuropean war biK.in. In .lulv, l'.M4.
At that time .Mr Hill called together
ottlclals fiom the First National Hank
and Northwestern Trust Pottipany He
had assctnbli'd 11 mass o? his w. urltiif.
Slore tluui i inn.oiio.uon was said to be
In the boxes that .Mr. Hill laid brtorc.
the bankers
"There should be no trouble," said
Sir. H'il, "but If tlicrt l this amount
is it xour dlt-po-ul 1
The First Nat.nnal Itti.k then bor
rowed from .Mi Hill flti.niiO.nH) worth
of Ureal Noithem Itallioad bomls.
These wele placed with the Tr.iisurv
neiiartmetit In Washlnaton and IG.000,
OOn worth of emeiKtuey currency, al
lowed uiuler Hie Aldrl. h art, wis shipped
Cim.inj on I'uvrth I'agr.
HEALTH BILLS FOR
CITY EATING PLACES
.?i.Tnsieclor Will Rut,.
Tliem a
l!ad."
FiiM.
"d'ood," Fair." or
liiir Hntelsi Are
l.v ry hotel ami restaurant In the lty
, will soon Imve an opportunity to show
1 Ihelr patron a clean bill in respect to
the sanitary condition of their establlsh
I ment mid utensils and the food health
jof those employed, either In the kitchen
' or dlnlm; rooms.
This oppoituully Is to be clven by Hi.
I Lucius I1 Hiown, head of the bureau
of food and druu-s. Me has inmpluteil
plans for a wholesale examination of
'hotels and restaurants b Health !
1 partment Inspeciors, tienlniitriK next week.
'These men oil their toura will carry
, . .... ... ,hr(, ,., .
, .h,, ., 7.. ..,,' ,'
whlel. u-i
' 1 spected. The cards will be labelbM
h.cted.
; "Uoorl," "Fair and "Had An rest.ui.
I rateitr labelled "Had" will have a bl.icK
w,nini ... ,nM1i ..
-h() c.ar(s tMft ilPAtilll), ..Sll.
, a , ,1(i,n), an,i .i,.thod- Fm-I In
st()r( A. , ,)V , t, .
,,,,.,,, , lurtlll,,, llH ' ,,,n(.,lth
tlu,r ,s 1)f ft rcquiiements
wll., 1P M...1IU1 I ep.n tinetn will expect
to be fulfilled Some of the rcqulli'incms
n,
I ,.oan .l)paraH mi ,iMB,is. , .,.
,,,,.,11,1 ,..,S fr employees, clean and
w.ishalile garments worn by employees,
H)aPi running water ami clean towel,
provided for employees, clean garbage
jeans, sleeping iiu.irleis separate fiom
, TZirl
windows and doom propcil) screened
I walls, celling, Hour, .van Is. hails and
i stairways kept clean ami in good repair.
I The big lintels anil rastaurauts will bo
the tlrst to Im inspecleil. Then will come
the "popular" eating pl.nes, ami last the
"qulck-and-dlrtli s."
It is hopitl by Or Hiown that the
I public will demand exhibition of the rat
ing cards. The ultimate destie of thus
who have been working on this reform Is
that all restaurant keepers' will tnakii an
..tr.r t,. show a clean bill of henllli
I that tliey may frame a "Hood" card and 1
'hang It in their flout window or on thel
wall.
CARUSO EXEMPT FROM WAR.
Wnn'l I'Tubl for
ITulit for Unl) I'm Pure
llediiees II Im
Poll lids
j ,sircml e'ii''r eji.'ici In Tur Si .v
ItoMi:, Slay 21' -llntlco Caruso, who
. Is spending Hie summer at his villa,
HclUi.sgu.irdo, near I'loienco, denies the
I teport that he has been called to tho
colors, lie nluls out that lie li 43, and
hence N exempted fiom military service.
The singer also deiiiej. thai Austrian
or liei lll'ill silinii.il ne s iies.-i, ine t'leticii
Line Sleanishlp Hspigne. on which be
travelled riom New yoik in iionieuux
Slgnor Caruso nays that he has tils,
coveted a cure for tat, consisting nf a
dally walk of sl houis As a result
of this treatment he already hat. IomI
thirty-four pounds.
PRINCE MAKES AIR RECORD.
j Cousin nf Alfonso Takes Flight of
Jl.-t Mile-.
Mxuiiin, Slay .!.- The Infante Al
fiiliso, coiimii of King lfonso, partlcl
paling in milllni'y aeroplane lesls In
ilav, llnvv Irom Sladrhl to Caiiugena,
J tr. miles. Ill L'01 liilitlites. estiiblishlni-
n new Spanish uiumncu rccoru.
xV
Throe Tlimisnml IMii.vop ImI1(
Move tti Kml Alleged I n- j
fnii' ('(inilitioiis.
SliniKUTS HOSTM.i: TO IT
KIlMV
Piiy
iv Krla nircr Consent
Full Snliipie for Pre
Holiday Weeks.
lo
Willi ill h Iivo dl'sntit.e v.'c.f the
Aetnr tiUllv Ancl:itlon. reprefentlnit
",nufl iirofess;.iii.il at tors and actresses
of the "leijllim lie" slace.
oi.-l to 1
altlllate with the American Federation of
Labor at 1 iiieotinsr yeterd.iy afternoon
In the Hotel Astor.
Five hundred and oichti-en oer-ons at- !
. .. 1
ended 1 lie luce' nc and two ballot were
t ikcn the n 1 rt ko (11; on remrd a favor
K the altilrituMi With orKatiized labor
an I the econd plnelnc the details of the
action, the time and the means In the
H 11") - of tie executive council of the
n.oel.it ion A i onference has been called
of h .-u'or' council and Samuel
l.nti.,.r.,M un.l lln... t.r...t, r.rt-i 1. 1 ..-
for New York, at which atiaiiKements
will be made for taking out a charter
formln-i the Actors FiUltv Asolatlon
Hranch of the American Federation of
Labor
This action, not unexpected, Is the
ret.uU of more than two vears of effort
on the part of the pla.vir fraternity to
combat what they have lenaided as
unfair conditions Imposed upon them by
the managers and to obtain an equitable
form of contract, which has been the
real Issue
DfiiiitiHls of the telnr.,
Havlnc voted to Joli the uti.on t!:e
""-v ''"l th.in-elxes In a p.ksit'on
,,ol ' treatment .ir.d to back
up tl.ese demands with the power of call-
lug a strike- an exigency which they
feel, however, will not le necessary The
, most of the ilemamie. whlfh were dls
cjssed Iu full .vesterday, are:
1 Full p.xmr. fi.r every wnrklt.g Hoik
snd no de, ria.e ilVirti.K p-rt ,.n in. llelv
Rf.k, Chrtntmns v...i ,'!, n nr.li, .V .
"hli-h the timmtRPM icener.illy Iih.m iru
p.....,l : Tr.i,.iiortitl.in from N'v Vork iu.il
b,iii av tin en all nut nf tn.. n fiitrntri tnettt.
3 A K.rirllilfe of lit leas' a l n ,k
as,,n tut inch enniuri'innt i.i In- prei o,ii.ii
bv n,,t i-ior (I1111 lutir weelu i leh'.imul
with,, it iiv
N" h,e.la mntlnef. to l. pt,rt thst
sre 1 i. i;,i' in e.i. h Mite, utiles, a ore rata
pit. mem ! tiu,le for .is h work
,X te.iMOt.ll.le uilj llHltlient I.i lie mail
over the -i ie.i.m nf the ,i.'Tr- butn
h"T - ; 'j, h ,.t MfMle.. tt til
lcncth of ihe crKagnnient.
1 X'hen a .mm and na vole was t.iken
on the question of atllM.tinni only one
woman called n.iv Pod'on .Mitche'l
I spoke act in si I', hut did not vote, .unl
'a letter aga'tisi the plan was read from
Otis Skinner .lotm I'tew. win. Is
umlerstood 10 look unf.ivorahlv .111 athlla
tlon. did not atliiid outside of the.
the association pr seined a -olid front
for Joining federated labor.
I'miirl U'll.itn riins..i President.
The council wlm h has been ,'tnpiAcrei
tn carr out the wWlus .if the asi-ocla-
tlon is riimi I of IMw.ird A boles,
F.dwin Ardeii. Ueorge Arll. Holbronk
Hllnn, Albert Hrunulitg. Cliarlis 11 Cu.
burn. lMward 'utinellv, Jnhn Pope,
Frank Praxen. Will'.im fourtlelgh. shep
herd of the Limits. Jtif.rs.in I'e An
cells. Itnbeit lMiS'Hi. IMw.ird Fills,
I Frank (lllmore. Urant .Mitchell. Ueorge
I Nash, Milton SUN. I'harles A. Stevenson.
David Warlleld. Jotin Wesf.ev. Tho'n.is
I A. Wise, Arthur Hyion and Ne W tt
.lennlngs. The otih ers who were re
elected eserda and will ,ibn take
part are l't ain H Vx .1-on. pr sulci. t ;
Urine Slcltae. vice-presiden: Howard
Kyle, eortespondlnir secretin y . Urant
Stewart, recording ecretarv . ISielutd
A Piirdy, treisurer, and 'Paul N. Turner,
genet.il counsel.
Simultaneously with Ihe decision of
Ihe acton to join the Fed, ration of
Lalstr the theati leal tlrm of Klaw
llrlanger yesterday Issued the fnllnvving
statement fiom their olllces 111 the New
Amsterdam Theatre:
".Xles.ru Kl'iw anil l'r' itim r Int. ,.
rlil,i, beKtnilillg with tie i.itlllli SH'iii.iii,
to ply all th mftnlter nf (tie.r ,,inipinl
III I s.ll.irirs inr lite .n. e.'i.ire i tl ri"' 111,-1.
.in.l Holy wish, whenever tliei mat riin-e
wet-ks Their i mitrai'le heret.ifnre hut
Klvn i ho in itiaKsim nt tit,- rlglit tn p.iv
half salaries Inr this we. I;. t!ili nrs
iiiitnriiitis'y t'Mil oiii. Hat In spit, nf tli
pot th.it htiri.lri'.U nf mtitr.i , luiie it',
rsmly l,in .tens I fer iiett ",.i.,itt gtilng
Klui. .1- lirliittner this prunes:, thsv are
vnliinttirll. going i i wulie It
' 1 hel ll.lM' 1,111 llle,l 'ii till, enurs
hy Hi f.o 1 lh.it 111- in. li ml i! farce,
niilsliiiis iitiil 'It liu.liie.s slafl 'irinin.l
til tlleiltris tltl'1 ''I'tllp lllll'l llHVO HllMt).
hud flltl sllbillis rn' lllese wet Iti
"Vnttlinf tin, V, tOm Itniltt. U.rt l.illnn
enr tun nf t Tie .tars in,in,tt:,i in- ki-iw .x -
KrlangT. tmr uiiv i'niit.'iiiitntel innvejiista
lint th pi'I nf the Alters rMnlty .V.sncl.i.
Inn to Jnlll the Vlll.rl.iit, r,l.,r,ttlnt, nf
lilinr lis. li.'i.l th slltrbtiet inihietii'e lii
lblr coming tn Hit. rnn,iti.!in 'I hv n'
gnlim to iln It In th spirit ir tnlrif...
leM-llttie lltV feet there Is lln re.i.eTi wh.'
Ih iiiinr nnii ehnrtis nlrl slintil.i imt ri -celve
full ciittipens itlnn when th mechnnl.
I cu) fri, the otiisl, I'iiih .unl tli liti.tni',
htllffs .In"
The Kl.tw & llrlimger statement grants
I one of the conditions which the actors
have been striving for. When their
' statement was shown to one of the of.
(leers It elicited no comment Francis
Wilson, president of the association,
I however, salt! '
"We ate actuiled bv no spirit of unl
I niosltv lownrd the managers. We are
willing to let bygone lonilitlnns he bv
gones and are not out for revenge We
have Joined union labor lo put ourselves
i In a position mil onlv to enforce our
I demands on Ihe inanauers but to force
i our membets to obev the roiulliloiw of
' the manager when they are found fair
We only wish ami have wished to tin
met half way.
l
Sliulierts lleiiuiln HoMtlle,
A. H Woods, Oliver Mornsco and
Corey, Williams .X Idler have already
! agreed to use tlie Actors Iviultv Asso
ciation form of cimtiiiet William A.
' llrady t.i.vs the coittiact Is fair, hut lin
' won't use 't unless he Is made to. Klnw
K Hrlanger have held out on some con
, tlltlons.
I The Shuberts have fouRhl the asstHia.
, tlon ctuidlstently since Ms Inception. In
their official organ they have attacked
i lint scheme lo unionize. Lee Sliiiheit
I apparently wan lillle tllsliirhe.l ovei es.
i teidiiy's action, lloeently Sir . Shul.ei t
I niade Ihe statement that f tho actots
I Joliietl organized labor he would liar
, them from his Ihealies and turn
thein
all Into movie" uoiisfH i here was no
' inclination in recede from this step on
the pari of Ihe Shuberl last ulglit.
I other manauers weie more or less let
I bent about discussing Hit. question.
' Hut there was n gte.it deal of tejolc-
lng among Ihe actors.. .Much nf this was
' ninnlfoMcd at the meeting, for besides
1
(,""( In uci 91 Vowth Vagc,
Cliilcim Pupcp DpcIiipcs 1'. S,
(ffippps Dis-rnirotl Tlii'ir
Con 11 try til ltiiniiip(.
,IA Tn ,.AMj on, ANr.
IiiiiiL- i
Seeonil Coillllllindei
, 1
llem!" of Keiir-Adinir,il
Denied by DnnieN. .
Tur Srs rf-eied lnt cxenltiK from
the I tutcd ll.xport Itureau a translation
r "" '""'bl.. in .11 f iidm of SantlaKo.
v line, inmieil nil Apiil -I. r. tr.i r.lli, Hie
action of the Olivers of th Fnlted
Stai-s armored cruder Tennessee .Itirinvr
her MMt .it ValparaNM The newspaper
''Ii.uk, that ihe American i.tllcers I.e.
e:ini. Itilnv , fi
mi
Kiven in thin- honor In- Chilean mil
lis
and wne KUllt. 01 Kins'. Improprieties
The ti.inslallnn follows:
The news of the arrival of the Amerl
an hatllitdilp Tennessee In Valparaiso
was iecelvil bv the entire American
o'oi.j with itre.i' entl'tisbiMii anil as
soon as the ship anclioKd In Valparaiso
feilvnii"i In lionnr of the olllcets w.re
M ' l''1 ' ' "
To these our iiillltnry and
them more lucidl'.v ..t the same time
as a testimony of suipalhv, showing
'how Annul) Ihe Idt-i of Pan.Anierli'aii
j ism had been aceepled III Chile.
"The tlrst festivity that was offered
1 hy Ihe colony in honor of the olllcers
1 of Hie Ti line -sec was a great banquet
and .lance at the Uran llolel of Vina del
Mar.
"Aini.g tint guests wcie the Uovernor
of the State. A11lt1.1l Pinto Cruz. lh
Dlie. to.-.tlcneral of the Navy, Iteai-Atl-ru
ral Pridian Uoii7ale, the ltear-Ad-rin
r I Praiulsio Nef. dlrettor of our
Naval Academy, ami many other chlifs
of uur nav) and prominent personalities
of our society from Valparaiso and Vina
hi Mai.
"W as this banquet a manifi itathin dur
ing which tile lli.st ;iid Klli'Sh. g.lX e
ptiKii of ti ilium and education which
were in aei'or 1 ince with a clvll'red na
t.on as the I'nlted States, which has th
preti t'Slon of reaching the tlrst place
among the nations In the wot Id, and
whn'h iu the name of this same culture
and civilization arrange treaties for the
saki
this
01 niiiiiiitoiv . i.inoriunaiei, miiire llrillsh otllclals trinslate the Presl
lurquet the hosts. Chileans as well i opoi'm Mat,.,,,,,, t,, ,.... ,u, i...
a Noiih An.. r:i aii.s. ohservetl splendid (
behavior hut the guest, the North Atnu,'- i
lean uiiler-s who a-i-!et. behavid iill of.
them t.,dl. very badly.
scenes III the lilt till lie t.
"We will tn 1 few details of some
of the scenes with h incurred during the
banquet which were of Mich magnitude 1
mat the .North Auieilcaii colony was
1'ir' e I to su-p .-I the dunce wh
'1,11
lo fill W till huriqtli ,
"It hurts n to sa. although we will
j x. .1 fe.v fa. t- of culture, and this is
t ot the Hi st t me shown during thel.
still in ("lli.e b) the nav.v of the Ftllled
Mat.-, which is called upon to carry
wh. ri vef It goo. .1 manifestation, a proof
of tne Irgli 1 rvih.atlori of this great
republic
"As soon as t.ie sat down the olllcets
began to sni"ke pipes and cigarettes.
I We ...lc to llHlltloii llele that Iu Chile
iiolmd) xx . itil.l date to Mnol.c thtoiigh an
illic..i limner, this stems a futm cus
ti.ni. hut it ought to be respecti d. I
'I here was a inomint during the banquet
n ahull the "i;li Ameilcan ollliets
began to throw br. ad at the glasses,
1.1 mall) spiling their contents A
I'n.ted States l.u uti n.int went to the
garden and u'ettmg bold of a lawn
r -Hi 1 tiiotigrt it into the dining room
and In gan to 1 tin up .trnl down., run
nu tr down ever) iiodv lie met mi his wa).
The --ecoiid commander of the Ten
1 ssee during ills spi.cii looji ii.iti) of
the he.'' of the ctilif uf the Cllile.-ri
tavy, lb. if Ail'iiiial Hour. lies and shook
't '" inn, Ah':e ,!s comi', mums worn
tavintt it giHid laugh. I! limy have 1 n
a i'T) funny h ke. but ceilaiuly out of
place. It meant lack of nspect Inward a
Chilean naval ulltci" v. no slioweil many
more str'pi" ami ai's than the second
c mm.iniler of the Teruicfe
I "At.'ithci "lilt i r iTo'isIi' In i leg tlower
pot, one of those wlili h is u-ed for
01 iiaiiii ntlr t; a room, and pl.u i-l it upon
the centre of the t iltli , breaking every-
,1.,.. .. .. ..
1 '"'" ,"'u "' '"
it
llanee as (lx en I p,
' Win II the I. id. is begin to l"Sciilile
fur tin d'ince t' e lilst l.iln.l) (o atl'lve
had to stand the inipi rtlrence of one
of the otllciis who t nibr H t-d one of ihe
(,.rls Thin lltst ep'stslc was sutllcle'it
for all of the iaiiiilles to give up the idea
of the dance bei.iuse no one could have
dined w.th otliceis who were absolutely
tlrijnk. cor ei qtientlv tin dance was stis.
,i '"o
"(in the oilier han I
. ,, ... ,,,.i , v ,.
w'llch wis ill are.r
the Chilian ..til -cot
red attilude.
oiitrnst a- Hi the
Not th Americans..
I tiotmis behav of of th
"All Ihe assistants to the banquet c.u-, 'ions, and c.tinii.i.iies am pretty sure
ned nvvav with tin to a painful Impres-! frotu this on to use the war atnl ino
sitol of s'altl bihailnr. and In f.n t the j thing cNc that comes h.u.dv to piomot..
whole all.itr w.i- veiv much coiiiinented personal ptopert) Interests
npi.ii We have he, nil rrom snvei tl high ! "our liesl cotlise," the paper stys, "l
pi't-i.ti.tlrties tli.it i hev would never have I to turn a blind eye on American doings
attended tlie saltl dinner had they 1 during the lieu few months and to ion
thought iitDlhinu like that would have' centrate our eneigles on the war"
happened ' The Liverpool Poxf savs
"i if 1 1 tber festivities givi fi in bono' "One can Imagine manv being espt .
of Mr M.'.Xiloii ami In which ntllceis of e'allv ills.iPiMimtcd when he says mat
the Teiinos'i.. assist. d nothing tan be with the causes and objects of tin. wa- 'No iii.i't r how ardenilv neutral ,!
said ol tin m. ne iier.vtlung went off 1 the Fuileil St ties has no concern To lions or Individuals may sei k to bung
pe.icefull) and cm recti)-'. 'us, who believe we am opposing an nl-i about pe.ite. the lluropeau war is to
The i ua t lib r of the Tonnes tempi at wurld dominion. It is hard to goon until a deels-vc vti tory Is won bv
i.,u ...in n letter lo the Xiiieilcaii I 'on- i I elleve that Ihe i .ins.- for which w I the Allies or the Central Poweis It
siil-Uiiieial with h in pint may niak
iip.iir tor the bail impl
the visit o' tlie Teiiiiesst
f Hills of It otliceis "
sslon lei i by
Hid lessen the
1 s,(.,.ri.iii'lrH
lllllllels mill
lll'll) siiti-.v.
N. SI I) -"'
XI ! xilno
W vsiitviirnN. SI i) -"' Miielary
Oaiilils lo-nlght tli umini i il a-- a lie the
sl.itemeiit that olllcets of the armored
i miser li'iineshee weie
disiiiihiiv in a hinquct
lie lelcpliotl. .1 to iillliet-s
lntoxlc.it. d or
al Vulpaialso.
w ho w ere at- I
:t 1 1 1 1 all ileiileil
I. n heil to the I .-tint ssi
llint rm.x MP b scene occiirri d I
Si cict.il y McAilon. who with thel
nicml.ets of Ihe Interiiatioiial Cotimils-1
Mini was on tin i'etini ss, c to-inglil i
denied Hie charges 111 nl" by tile Chilean
newspaper thai o Ulcers o Ihe Teniics-
sec or any one connected wilh Hie len
n.ehce or the i.i lal pain .tiled in the
uimnicr dci-uibed lln said the sptry
wus t'nlse and his ill ui.il could In put
In ihe sirongesi tonus
xuiv -roitovro si,i:iiiMi t m
l.l.llllill M I DI II Vll.lttl VII
,,M, iVrSl .I'll s I'.trv X Ml VI
I I, tot T. el 0 i"' I' l .itieksnn We,
,,,.l I'l.l '.I 21 I' M Seillllk 11 IIV P M
Xi live- Hull I'n JI.Mi A M I nrnlll.t I I 3v
V XI This I. In uil.liilini In legulttr Tnrniilo
slieplllR i ir on trnitl telling West i'Jrd
n Kctrv tn t, .'.o P. M, Llbirty Street
I'crjy i V. SI. .lifi'i
Allied Representatives in Washington Contend That
Wilson Made "Airy" Talk for Political
Purposes at Home.
W win M, 1.. ,. Mai J3. Thele ate I
char liidlc.itions now that the l'resl-
oent s fo-c.illiMi "peare speech on Salur-
'lay nlRht last tins made .1 xery unfaxor-
fl'Ie' impression iiinoni; the Ktilente dlp -
lotnat.
(ne diplomat, after 1 ii.i'jcterlxihi; It lined himself to cautious aiiil itcntral
as premature, vNloiiarv. ncidemln ntidlleras, but It Is linposslhle to nilis the
inspired bv no It (Ml motives, went
politlLMl motives, went so
far as to say that the isj-slblllt) of the
I President s being of real seivlce in fu
ture peace negotiations may be vitiated
as .1 coseiUellce.
I There Is a general teiideio v ,1:11011c
'diplomats to believe tlt.it the President
succumbed to the temptation to 'alk
generalities of peace at an Inappropriate
; lime, even though his better Judgment
1 was against it. So far as can be ascer
j tallied there Is no Htitente diplomat
' here who legnrds the Pi esalent's address
in any oilier light than ,i general unmei
, atloii of a p..,,,. ,renl which has lie
beirillg wlli'ever on Ihe pr.veht Colllll 't.
Dissatisfaction wltli the Presidents
j utterances Is lused on several grounds I
111 in- orsi pi, no nu. l.lili tl,i inin not
1. 11-11 even orseoiirsir on peace irom the
1 Pieslilent of the leading neutral Power
iiit a time when it Is explained that Uer
I ma ny Is making exery iffoit to spreatl
peace propaganda 111 th neutral countries.
I Hexed 'iirillng Pill Oil I.
Ureat Hrltain feels tliat Sir IMwnnl
Ure)' olllclal announcemeiit that tho
HtUente would not consider peace parleva
w-.i in itself a Hear Indication that thel
, nrilMi Uoverninent wlshctl to put a
1 damper 011 peace t.iik for the present.
1 France. .1 Is explained, t. in much the
same position, as the French Prem.er
and the French .Minister of .Justice pub-!
llcely declared that peace talk was out of
ine question l!usl.i. It it, added, IK In
me same position.
Practically all of the entente embas
sies ate reporting dally to their Uovirn
ments on Hie spread of the Herman pence
propaganda In the Frilled Stnt.s. Tin so.
tep.iit all rolled the fear that l ie pies
nt Administration may fur political iea
sons lake this propaganda seriously
The Pn-ld oit's s-atenieiit that he is
l.ot cotice-ned with the , ause.- of the war
has apparently given oiTence to the Ln
t teriti. sympathizers liicat lliltain as.
utts tll.lt the lillect ililise of
le-wteri Fngl.irid and lieriuany
ViOlatlOtl Of HillM.'lO i,etltt!il.t.
the war
w is li.n
Thete-
concerned with the views of li!"lan
i.iiitriillty
This. Fntente olll l.iN l,e.v.. i0..ks
like a vindication of Uirman.v's cimteti-
1.011 tnat nie impert.il U iv ei nmetit wax
not to blame for ovirrunnlng lielglum
It Is on Instance where persons close to
the F.ntente Uovemmen's believe 111"
PieniiUiit p!.i)i.il foi Herman .-m,,..::.y
at the expense of the fat ami at the
j ' i".i Jiliisiiieoi.
I ... .....U.a I. 1........
I. .1 II ll II II I 'II pet' I pliolila XV lUnn,
1 Con. errntig the itt'rude of the HritNli 1
, presi 'in.ii I t' e 1'rcsi l. tit's address it I
i- i'...n...i om in. i me iiiiiW xi us lowing comment .
, s-.inds aiori,. in M,,port of the p.-cs i,.t j,.,st week he (President Wilson i lr.
I This N regarded as signltlcani on a -I i,.,i 't the wair.ng nations without
. emit of the pecuil.it ptis.tlon which thtr ,,i Mtmetiitft to nek his counsel, and
riewsriiioer nas o, npieo towaru me war'
lltii.'il to., nr. I th., v, .r
Since Its lielntllllL-
I Xfter Urn in ftnntK :irrt.,.,t In 111.
glum and whl.e all Kt.gl.itnl practically
I was clamoring for w,u. It l explalntd,
(the hiiij .Veil-, advocated that Knglanl
! remain at peace .millet the rest of the
, F.uropenn Powers tight 11 out A strik
ing editorial on the eye of the war's
i outbreak siinriiarired in the finiu .xic.
tlie cornitn r. I ii ,uh autages which ling-
' land would gain b rerna'.'ting at peace
Tile sii-called N'irthcllITe p.ipets. the i
7'litie.s, the im; Mail arid otheis, liter
i took the Dniln .Veir severel) to task
for this Itegarille s uf the fuls in
'the contrnvers) . popular oplntnr. It is
explained, w.is overwhelmingly with th"
papers dltccteil . Iird N'"-thcH(Te
Since then the Dnilu .Vrtc his oc
cupied a position of its own and has on
piactlcall) all Important .tl "tlotir. N-en
the onti opposing vol e to t!ic gctier.il
and popular de'iiand as set fulth by the
Itrltlsh pres
Lord NorthcllfTe's own (pinion of the
I'n sldent's address ma) be Judged, it Is
pointed out. by the i ditorl.il In the 7'mie.
whele the Pn sldent's pe ice si li N
eliiraflerwed as dm tl y for pnliticil
ellist 111 the I'nlted States
SKKS POLITICS IX NOTE.
Loudon Pnper I nil mil I cm llsnn
Pill) for oles.
.-reel Clof, r.ilfe', fn Till si
Li.sno.s. Ma) 2'i The imM Mini in
( iiinmentlng on Pr-csiilent WINon's nuts
s:i)s Ilia' there is milch that every
ltr'oti wotiM tike t'i mi, liut must
lightly lefiain from -,n ttu concerning I'
The pew -paper tells its re, olers mat
ever) thing, or ne.iiiv ever) thing, done
b) political leaders ill the I'nlted States
during the qii.iiliemual campaign is
gov et lied bv t lei tloiieet ng consldera-
' statnl Is not of sntiie loru-ern lo the
gteat republic of the west
Concerning President Wilson's state-
ment of unconcern with telatton to the
causes of tho war the ircsf ini'i'lef itii-
' n Ur says 1
I "We do not understand b" a neutral
' can expect to Inlllience these events if
h,. begins bv declaring himself not lo h
toncertied with their causes mill obje ts
, We tin not see how
he. Is to conttol Ibis
stupendous tlonil
if lie Is not in-
lemsteil lo search
ohscum fountains'
liuist forth.
We must guard ourselves in advance
against being thought utimasonable or
,i.gressl e If we nm unable I.i .1' cept
ptaco oveituies b ise I on the assumption
1 of
I the
iii.tl guilt nitii iicmt: smi tto'iui
lllimoili.il.' p inspect, we should bn
xireii.elv foolish to write off as mi-
ln.poii.int oi InipracUcilile wiiat the
Pieslilent says about reconstruction after
Ihe war "
The U'cl in In -ile r Hmrllr heartily ap
proves of Mr. Wilson's plan for a league
of nations to prevent war The paper
uNo sa)n that If the President's sin-cch
is a statement of the policy of the
I'nlted stales In retard to the league of
nations it Is n most momentous slop for
America, since it brings tlie I'n'tcd
Slates Into world politics
The Manchester Uutirdhm chaiactcr-
Ucs the President's solution as old, hill
sa that It has never since Its formation !
. recxixed so Kre.it Miiport us It has to-1
1 day Iu the I'nlted States. The paper
'lidds! !
"The Ptesldeiit Inevitably has con-'
slKiiillcani e or his declaration that the
flilled states nouiu ne reauy to necomo
a party to any fwislble leamie of na-
tlons. Twenty-one mouths of war have I
done much to lnidennlhe tven the,
rooted American avtrsloti to alliances
a'"1 1CilK"M" 1
GERMAN MUSS CRITICAL
Wilson a Mediator I Xleued Pn
ent linsliisl If nil) .
,e trtf I able ltiiilch to Tur. Six
Loniios, Slay 2? Herman press com-
1 ment oil Pieslilent Wilson's peace speech
has not yet been receive! j in l.onuoti, nut
the we end Herman papeis teemed
I W t,
peace talk and with discussion of
Sir Wilson's
mediation.
previous leleiences to
In general the tendency I to ciltlcise mttcil to-day that all i.ilculatlona In
iros:!,;.::,,",".!!- ,,,'1,":,,;' j '"" " -
The FiiiiU'iitrrr rlluti; nrcuses him of f"r Pushleiit have bien uiisi t by dcvel
"falling. In Hngland's Interest, to em- j opments of the last few- dajs. Thesa
ploy certain nm eiiective means which
lOlllll Hllll! It'll llie war.
"lln cannot, therefore, complain," the
taper adds, "at the cold reception of U.h
utterances In Herman)'. Nevertheless,
should America proffer mediation Het
iniuiy, while feeling neither gratitude nor I
! im. wool, I not haughtily refuse.
Tl"' M-rffrnpitut says:
i "Should President WlNon prove
that
Hng-
he Is resolved to proceed against
land's shamelees outrage against Inter
national lav.' in the same way he pro
rceili'l against us for employing the
weapon wn were compelled to employ
oaltist Hngland's brutality, then per
haps we would listen to talk of media
t on b) Sir Wilson We will not close
the door 10 anybody who can help in
tli" restoration of peace. In the mean
time, however, the soft voice of humanity
j from America l drowned In the roir of
1 .tin' 1 , .10 iMiciir, ..10.11 out .'11. line- mill
iima t st ua- e are unable to accept
president W. Nun's words as sincere as
long as h ood ilowing through Ameri
can shells to put gold in the pockets nf
Amenc.it k "
PARIS I'RICSS SKEPTICAL
Wilson s,, , stiiti i,, . Itiaplreil
ll) Pnlltli'iil (OOllllllMIS
Pxnts. Slay 2!. The French press N
sieptlcal of the motives behind Prcsl
dtiil '.Vl'.on.: .Tech before the l-casii"
to llnfoice Peai e The belief Is held
that the speech wis prompted bv the
t -'iie of party politics in the
t'i'heil S'at. s and there Is a strong ten
,Un, to re-, lit 'he President's remarks
Pie Juiii'muI tin Dfbntu makes the fol-
mill)
before
the Peace League he laid
.).... .. . .. I. It .... .1 'I'!,.
p. an
foi mill cn.nl pew
g..a, .ll.p.ulty with his proposal,, is
in. it i li t in, in., ami .tusiriil Oilve siinwn
b) Ibis wat that they will not be bound
bv treaties, and yet Wilson Is silent '
tn face of the'r acts. Now lie Htuls
'i' tongue again, but It lsiiiprjin to'
be lt 11 lime When iltl elecolal cam-'
p.ugn aboii to begin Ope may be
, .1' lolled if Ski Ptl'Ml."
The .Iniinml sais "Pres. dent Wilson'
put himself in Im,. wilh his audience
and llileil his spec, h with illusions of
a new world where wolves are oh uued
tn sheep In truth tile position of the
President I- embarrassing and ibnnl-'
ti.tted by consideration of the ,
campaign in which, wMIe he is
of the Iiemoctatic nomination,
not neccss.irll) hive Hryan's
lectoi al
asstiri d
he will
radical
l'tcl!it group with hl'ti. while, also, he
tiinls in front of him the pro-Hermans
ami at the sum' time the Intervention
part) pushing ti 1 ti i fr.un behind Wil
son must try to put hi'ti-elf in ti e eeritie
mil draw members of nil parties to
't-ii Thirefnre he trns the IndTensne
l nt of inventing chimeras for the
fll'llie '
A I 1 7( Vv FROM' " 'IKXXA .
I lues llolb I . . I'lilllleill Piirlles
to lleellll-e for Xledllitlon,
Viknsv. v a Lund. ui. Slav "i - Tile
Si l, me 'ti e proposes th it the Ito
piii'lnans as will as the liemo. r.its shall
di darn lu.it the Polled States Uovern
meiil Is "culled' to act as mediatot The
p.ipet tltllltles
"Prcsuin.ibl) tb's poll.', would dis
solve 'be existing antagonisms in
xmcri'.i In a Infix un.n It is hardly
possible to conceive of anv thing which
wniild make more impies' nm upon the
peopie than the pl.lltdlll.s of tile two
ilistoi. i' pait.es rle, larlriK Hint America
Is tl',. peace In Inge!' nnd that the inn
delates must declare themselves in favor
of this pull, ) "
PRFniCTS WAR'S SPRKAD.
Polish Xliiiiitfiiiitiil'f r looks
still tlinu llev I'loiioieiita.
for
Is hkil) to become even iniif. de-perat..
in the future, for startling develop,
incuts are looked for In the grouping of
the smaller nations very soon "
ii .1. Sosnowski. fotiuerly a manu
facturer of Warsaw, prominent in Pol
ish alfairs, otltci.il and public, now In
this country, made tlie fniegoliig dee.
I.iratiotis yestenlav He would not ex
phi. n Ins lefeietice to a i ('grouping of
1 Hi., smaller nations lie was In a po.
sihon to know was all lie would
for in explore the ( "The high Ideal or humanll) mil hli
fiom which the) ; city guided Pieslilent Wilson's speech
'on Saturday evening lo the Lcigne to
llnfoico Peace," lie said "It mut have
beiu a great surprise to tlie belligerent
Pow 't s even to the Central Powers I
suppose the s.inii piinclples are Inllueiic
tug the American pres In advocate
pe.ic ' ardently
"i'.in Anicilcau people as a whole .ip
relate I to all nations so d ligentl)
slaughtering themselves In Huiopi. No
wonder the) would like to see a stop to
the universal annihilation of Ihe I fn
and property of their kinsmen Put
Ihe American people have lint had a full
appreciation of the teal iini of Hits
gigantic struggle It is nothlt g less
f in the wot'tl" -upumic). It . In
I'eilin w.n bei vx ecu the Hiitlsh Uinpim
and l'ie ti, t in. in Umpire The oilier
Poweis .tie only willing ol unwilling
helpers,'
STOP HUGHES
"Old (iuanr' Alaniiod t,
St i'iirf li of Move to Nomi
nate .liislicc.
C'l' D'l'l.'M I!f'fM 'I'd
--. .
...... 1 , , ,rx. 1 . 1 1-I rn
IIKAI) 01' 1' l( )0N I0 hL L
(Jen. Leonard Wood Looms
as Candidate, to Avert
mr Split.
vv.vsiii.sinox, Slay ;ri.- With Itepubll
cans Mocking out of Warhlngtoii to
takn part In the conferences prettml
nar lo the assembling of Hie national
I convention next week the bailers nil-
I developments
ale .
The drive by the f.ivoi.ie sons, said
to he allied and abetlid by the House
velt managers against the movement,
to noiiilnaio Supreme. Court Justlco
Hughes.
Tile lecrudesci nee of th,. lloosevelt
I boom, which has suit llooseult stock
upward.
Although the contest that 1st shapltw:
j Is devoid of tlie extreme blitcrncn
which ushered In tho convention of 1912,
Itepubllfnn leatlets are known lo fear
I that miles the utmost care is exticlsetl
la situation will develop In Ihu balloting
ui xt week whlili will again spin the,
party or at least have .1.- solidarity
i battl) impaired.
' Mill No' Till... T. It.
All the bailers ale ho.ef,. for
I peaceful termination of the Clu ,igo con
vention Tin y want to win, ami each
faction app, ninth ts willing to make
1 sulisi.mtl.il concessions t" .rt.iin this
' end The ri gulais Insist that the) will
' nuke any concession to the Progres
sives short of the nomination of Itimsit
' xelt They say that under i, . c ivuru
stances will the consent 'o tli.. noiniua
i tlon of tlie ex-Pesiilent
on the other hand, the PiotcssIvs
I leader who ale active in politic will
1 be content If they are pt rmltted to
' write a major par' if th platform, sit
Istleil that no a:iemp' w, ' be made by
what are known as the "uld Hoard ' to
namei a "reactionary '
I old line loaders have iiit irreatlv
surprised b I lie results of the recent
i fi rtiotiul rn.iriii'iii rue; for wh.ch In part
I the) were responsible A I.i r i in . I by tho
I progress .(f ttie Itoiweyelt movement n
few weeks ago thev encouraged tho
i Hughes movement for the purpose of
I'
putting the (Vilonel nut of the race Tim
1V,,. ,br,;.vn
successful, for
i far into tin"
shade tli.it liepublli an lenders every
where regarded the iioiuiriatn.n 'if Hughes
as pr.iet icillv a lerlainlv
The i mi Uuard felt lli.it the lioosevelt
movement was permanently d.sihieti nn.i
w as (..it-stb'd w.th that partiiular tcsult
It was nut -.iti.-ll, (1. however, wi'h tho
m.itiieuium d.sclcs, d in tne Hughes
movement I unl i.oi inteii.l to allow
Hughe" to nm ,n,n w.th the iiotuit i
tloii Sn I In ltd i : h i r 1 1 tuiri". I in to
put the Hughes linoiii In the leas to
prevent the itwicmcnt in beha f of tr.o
lllsthe from lecotlllng too folmnlahlc,
vel keeping It ll.ltnly lo
the , (invention if Itoo-eli
t ill b.t, i, on u
lit .tea II Ml .Ul I
bet time ilaugeioils
The f.ivoilte sons John tl in the an'!
Hughes drive anil ariangemet ts were
made with the powers won control tn
delegates to hold down tin' I In. nes vote
on the 111 -I I .. ... .t
Aliiitjt that time Ilis.-eVelt got bus)' on
his own account, and bteulrs betting the
tomtoms t -ok ,t shot at the Just ,e t'o
Ills silence oil the issues of tile lloll
t'.i'ttrji' von I. Slever and bis t e.i i:. e..
Xelt Hi pultl.c.iti i.illim.ttie g.it ,l-t w '
a glg.mtli pliipag.llliia uf l.etl'.o's ,i
letters to lie'egates ftonl the "pl.l.'i pi o-
ple pleading lor the ui.min.iti.'n t n
Coiotiel, with the organization of Uikhs
velt pai.iibs and wil t pilgrlmagi s o'
atlmliiis to tin liKinc of Ihe c, i, i.
Klge .It Sli'l' Ha)
Tllel . Wet I ' ' I " its
-I t .
'1
Sir Jitiulies .inti.i .i ii issui
nit lit .litlii.illl trig that lie w
nc, . pi fie lie;. iii.l.! an unmmat
any tin utiist lin es. Then wa
'l.O r
ni limit p
,i t. , a i
iie ci'ipt it
tlioiiii lot stii It a lepi'll. It
llipeatiil ill nl. ju. nie t,i pi r.-i i
totie hull to s.iie a .slatetlll l.' "
views have fade! In fact all i
that art v p it . .u-ul.it ..
.Mr Hughes s attitude am t
ani.it.i: iinllln i ins ,i nspiriil I v V
ilitetests oip'.sig i is ti. m.n.itl ,
le
ll 1
ports
is to
pre I
nous
llooin for ti
Wood.
Tin t
nmntig
on the
has b. en a l.'l of specti ation
(inliti, Inns hue as In the i ffect
liepllbhcali ulll.llioll in else Sir
ant "Uticc.l I.. Pun tne C'livcn-
Hugh
tll.ll lll.lt lie w.nilil
political hfn if p.
1 1 fus-e io return to
lulu. il.. 1 Nothlri.;
would till f e majority ..f Hie old guntdx.
men wnli mo in ipsmai than tho with
tlinwal or Hughes, leavlii.- thein to fucn
a .'hoi' e between 11..,. .-ei.it and the llenl
of li -sei cindldatie
Sentiment H ir stall. zing among the
llepilhllc.in delegates for I n.trd Wood
,t - a si ci a d c'ti at e i.indidati. for tho
President' il iomlniitli.il. at ending to a
Ma'ellietll Issqed ti-illty bv .loll'l A,
StiWIt't. Iil.'sililil of the leaguo of III
pillilic.t.i Clulis of Niw Voik Stale who
ih in Washington -Ml Stewart, wit
has Just mturned fr "to a tt.p Ihtougii
tl.e Western . ml nilibiln Western Sta'e-,
s.t.s that besides i in ..iititei lug i.n
itc.tMiig st ntinient for Wood lin has i,
eivid tli.lliv b'tleis fl-iun Hepuhlicn,
delegates stat. ug "ill it they am p.
Wood for the roninins of his wel. k,, u
high t li.i ra i tni , Ills cletu leconl ' "
; ,. a. cl.iriji that. If imitiiii.it. I, . w I
be ilccU'il
'The way tin' sitii.tt'on .ippi.rs i
ine." s.ud Sir. Stewntt. "Itis.-I mi t '
is nan. I iitat.vsis, is Hughes. 11 ...
v 'I or Wood ill the order named !' '!
I'li'iiui s ii. inic is dropped t'.e ii o ,i
at Cll.i.lgo will ne either Ito.i.-.v
Wood
i'lteie aie t gteat many th gs
t v.. r of Woods iinmii'allnii. He t
.uiiv a-'ceptable to nil fact'erti "f
part). . mm of kn.MU ah In it ,
sterl ng iiuahtii s tti.c-ci.t ti ii.Vs alw tv
lie Ann i'ii'
sn it th's tun
,t et III C'llllt-c g
i.' w !! li t
- io pa) olf a
I
loot-
b
I S I I.
i test I'e Ji i
I p ' il o
r ii'-' ui.
.ittil i tie
