4
REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAR
10 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, TUESDAY MORNING, MAY 30, 1916
10 PAGES
VOL. XXVII., NO. 12
THE ARizor:
Cheering Throng Meets
Colonel Roosevelt on
His Arrival in Chicago
DEATH CLAIMS
On His Way to Kansas City
Former President Pauses
for Brief Conference
With Progressive Nation
al ( lommittee Leaders
G. 0. P. OF 40 STATES
ARE FOR ROOSEVELT
1 1 Is HEADQUARTERS
I During the past week an organiza- publicans for the nomination of
tion has been effected in nearly forty Roosevelt at the t nicago convention
i afrmftaa nmnn regular renublicans to
ARE NOW OPENED ! -secure the nomination of Theodore
Roosevelt on the republican ticket. In
I Arizona a thoroughly representative
Active Wol'k Of SeCUring I republican committee bus agreed to
l4,.l,.,.nA Ti r , r, serve on this national organization
.mjk,- i utrr, is utlttl . reI,u,,nc.1Ils 1Vorking fr Roosevelt,
and headquarters of this Republican
Roosevelt committee have been estab
lished in Chicago.
Hon. .1. j .orenzo Ilubbell has been
selected to act as executive member
of this republican-Roosevelt commit
'tee from Arizona, and a telegram
CHICAGO, May 2. Colonel Theo- from Mr. Hubbell announces that he
(lore Roosevelt stopped in Chicago for would leave yesterday for Chicago for
four hours today on his way from a conference with republicans from
the other states and to work with
Oyster Bay to Kansas City where he , thew ot,er r Micans fl)r K(1()se.
-George Von L Mevei-
Will Have Charge of ('(in
vention Campaign
l Republican A. P. Leased Wire
is to deliver a memorial day address.
He was met at the La Salle street
station by a cheering throng, who
crowded about his train so closely
that the committee which met him
had trouble in escorting him to the
automobile which was to carry him
to his hotel.
At the hotel Colonel Roosevelt made
an address to several hundred people
wM crowded about htm in the lobby
in which he referred to the cordiality
of his reception and reiterated views
he has previously expressed on na
tional preparedness.
'I'm thankful I still have the phy
sique to stand a jam such as that at
the station." he Raid.
Among those with whom Colonel
Roosevelt conferred were Chief Jus
tice Olson, of the Chicago municipal
court, recently a candidate for tnp
republican nomination for mayor and
Raymond Robins, who probably will ,
he temporary chairman of the pro
gressive national convention. The i
former president dined with O. t.
Davis, secretary of the progressive
rational committee and left at 8
o'clock.
Roosevelt headquarters were Rip
ened in Chicago today by Herbert U
Satterlee and Lawrence Graham of
New York and active work getting
votes for the candidate begun. The
headquarters were opened several
hours before Colonel Roosevelt ar
rived here enroute to Kansas City
where he Is to deliver an address to
morrow. George von L. Meyer, former secre
tary of the navy is expected in Chi-
fago tomorrow to assume (harge of
the convention campaign for Roose
velt. Indication!) are that the plan of
Frank H. Hitchcock to have the name
of Charles E. Hughes presented to the
republican national convention as the
first candidate may result in an in
teresting fight between the Root,
Roosevelt and Hughes forces. Hitch
cock's arrangement is that when the
roP of states is called in alphabetical
order to make nominations for presi
dent, to have Alabama the first on
the list yield in favor of New York
so that Hughes may have the ad
vantage of having his name presented
first. When friends of Root and
Roosevelt learned of this plan they
declared they would attempt to get
recognition from the chairman to pre
sent the name of their candidate be
fore Hughes. They said that the
halrman of the convention would be'
obliged to settle the dispute at the
time it arises.
Alice Hill Chittenden, of the New
York state anti-woman suffrage as
sociation notified Chairman Hillis by
elragh that she wotdd appear be
'ore the convention committee on res.
olutions to oppose the insertion in the
republican platform of a national
vvrman suffrage plank. The national
rnti-woman suffrage association will
send a delegation to Chicago to work
against the plank while members of
the national congressional union will
appear before the resolutions com
mittee to plead In favor of an
dorsement of nation wide suffrage for
women.
Chairman Hilles has been advis
that the six delegates representing
Hawaii, Porto Rico and the Philip
pines, who under the reapportionment
of delegates adopted by the republi
can national committee in 1913 are
given seats In the convention without
vote, will make a determined fight
velt's nomination in the Republican
convention.
The head of this national organiza
tion of republicans is Geo. V. L.
Aleyer, formerly secretary of the navy,
and the latest dispatches from New
York indicate that regular old-line
republicans from all portions of the
country are rallying to this Roosevelt
movement.
Of Arizona's six delegates from this
state to the republican convention two
are now definitely announced for
Roosevelt, and there is every proba
bility that on the first ballot there
will be at least three votes for Roose
velt from Arizona, the balance for
Hughes.
Reports from all parts of the state
indicate that there is a steadily
growing sentiment among old-line re-1
I
At Tucson, Prescott, Douglas and
.Bisbee this Roosevelt sentiment among
republicans is unusually strong and
is growing rapidly.
One of the vitally interesting things
to- Republican leaders locally is tin
fact that many lifelong democrats do
not Instate to state frankly that they
hope to have the opportunity of voting
for Roosevelt as the next president.
D
I V I
COLONEL RANDOLPH
DECLARES FOR ROOSEVELT
(Special to The Republican.)
i Tl'CWON, Aris., May 29 The
most important acquisition of the
! local Roosevelt club, which
was organized several days ago
j to further a non-partisan move- I
ment to secure the nomination of j
! Colonel Theodore Roosevell lor j
I president, la Colonel Epefl Ran-
dolph. democrat, who sent the fol- -,
lowing letter to Walter Wake-
field, president of the club:
"Replying to yours of even date,
j it is my opinion that the best In-
i terests of the United States will j
be conserved by the nomination of
! Theodore Roosevelt for the office j
of president but I think lie should
j be nominated by the republican I
party. Anything that 1 can do to
bring about this end I shall gladly j
I I
"Yours truly.
"F.PF.S RANDOLPH."
-
JAMES J, HILL
Railroad Builder, Capitalist
and Most Widely Known
Figure of Northwest Suc
cumbs to An Affection of
Bowels
Republican A. P. Leased Wire!
NEW CARRANZA NOTE FAILS
TO ARRIVE AND OFFICIALS
ARE SOMEWHAT MYSTIFIED
SOUTHERN ARIZONA
MEXICANS REGISTER
ST. PAUL, May 29. James J. Hill,
railroad builder, capitalist and most
widely known figure of the northwest,
died at his Summit avenue residence
at 9:30 o'clock this morning as the
result of an infection due to bowel
trouble
Mr. Hill was unconscious for nearly 1 ,v,'s li- Ltever. representing the de
i,,.,,, i, ai,i tw f..r I facto Mexican government here, to
man M. Uiggs and Dr. Stanley Zager. register their names and residences
together with members of the imme- ; wit" him. If inted forms lor this pur-
diale Hill family, were at the bedside i'" i i 10 . ' v. 1 1 '
vi'hi'l. the em1 f mill
imes being sent to tie insinuated among
; Mexican citizens whose names and ad
dresses are unknown to the consul.
Dele Tier also stated today that 1S00
I cavalrymen had been ordered to entrain
in Sinalou and come to Sonora to aid
General Rafael Kstrada in his cam-
They
will operate in the central and northern
part of the state. At the same time,
the consul said, there will be a general
movement of troops toward the north
ern part of Sonora. Several cavalry
columns, at least four or five, will
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DOUGLAS, May 29. Mexicans in
three counties of the southern tier of
Arizona were notified today by Consul
sens as were known by Lelevier, extra
The funeral will be held at bis resi
dence at 2 n. m. Wednesday. An
nouncement of funeral arrangements
r as contained in a statement issued
by the famil..- at 4 p. ni. today.
Contrary to expectations interment
i.r.t I... in IViU-nrv e.m.t .rv lint
, ., m. , . i ,,m i . .r.-t.il P"Kn against the Vaqui Indians
al NotUl oaks farm, five miles north
east o St. Paul, long the summer
home cf the "Kmpire liuilder."
The genets! pttbllc will have no
opportunity formally to pay tribute
Department Advices Indi
cated That Latest Com
munication from Mexican
de Facto President Should
Have Arrived Sundav
brought to Agua Prieta yesterday to
sluiiil trial on thii eliano. of liermit-
ting liquor to l,e imported into Sonora. I Republican A. P. Leased Wire
Carranza is said to admit that a con- WASHINGTON, May 29 State de
SDiracy existed but says that the liquor, partment officials were somew'iat
was to be imported into Sonora in in- I mystified today over the failure of
noeent gasoline cases, held for a. few ; the new note from General Carranza.
days and then shipped back into Ari- j to reach the department or the Mexi
zona to points away from the border, i can embassy. The department's ad
This elaborate plan was necessary in j vices indicated that' it was to be ex
order to get the liquor out of the pected yesterday.
bonded warehouse where it was stored Manuel Mendez, the foreign office
in Naco, Arizona, without arousing .ttrh. from Mexico who was man.
Suspicion as to its ultimate destination.
posed to be acting as special mes
senger, arrived here today but de
i clared he had no knowledge of the
I note whatever and merely had come
! to Washington on a vacation. Eliseo
I
E
I
T
FERENCESIN PLATFORM IF
1
patrol the state.
The consul said
that there was no
After investigation at Naco. Julio
Carranza. a customs clerk, said to be a
relative of Venustiano Carranza. de
facto president of Mexico, and Rami
Fnriquez, a customs guard, were
leading citizen of the nOTth-
est. but Mr. Hill's associates and his
1.1 . m . I...- ll I Imilloil 1 1 . tli..
Il I I I I I I ' CD .,111 IKIUIII Ittl IV ...V . , . , ., , ,
1 CoTi lii'i't n ill !..-;v.. . ' tin, oPili.i for ri.i-
licus" ii view the bodv before the ......
... . . istratioii and the tioon movement.
service 'be general otrices ot tne . . .. .
Great Nodhetn railway and the First
National Bank and Northwestern
Trust company will be closed all day
Wednesday.
The fan dy statements include a
request that no flowers he sent. Rev.
Thomas .1. Gibbons, v icar general of
the Catholic diocese of St. Paul. Who
attended Mr. HIM during his last few
1 ours, will offii iate at his funeral.
Al! afternoon telegrams continued
to pour in from all parts of the
eon, My with expressions of condol
ence for i he family. A constant
stream of familv friends called at the
1 ome and at the residence of Louis
W. Hill, next door. Pew entered, most
r( teem merely leaving words of
sympathy for the elder Mrs. HlfT and -!ier
children.
The family statement was as fol-
low:
"ST. PAUL Minn.. -Mac 29, 1916.
"Mr. Hill passed away very peace
fully after several hour
VERDUN AND SOUTHERH TYROL
GONTINOE TO BESGENESWHERE
SANGUINARY 3ATTLES CONTINUE
Republican A. . Leased Wire
CHICAGO, May 29. -An official
(statement of the meeting of Oeftnan-
j American leaders held iiere yesterday
i and today was given out this after
noon. Delegates were present from twenty-
fRcpublican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO, May 29 Rival confer- i
ences to be held here June 6 and
in' the Vati.inal ll'UMa Uiiffr-.mi, ami 1
Congressional I'mon for Woman Suf
frage have created a stir in the suf
frage situation.
That the conferences will cause
some confusion is felt certain by the five Htat,'s and Alaska or wire r'rv
congressional union iople and thev s-nted '' V These delegates ,t
,h. i,, - -111 k. stated, were "authoriMrd representa-
tho best thing for the movem-nt.
Some believe the calling of the sec
ond convention is a deliberate blow at
the woman party convention and that
it will take the form of an expression
Republican A. P. Leased Wire regiment and their guns brought safely
The Verdun region and Southern away.
of uncon- Tyrol continue to be scenes where the d..i tnr'n nut from Petroerud
Ml me memoeis m m- most sanguinary names are laning . , . Hermans have repeatedly
of disapproval of the policies of the
tives of churches of many different de
nominations, of social, business and
quasi-political organizations and of
the German -American Press Associa
tion." "All large organizations of Ameri
cans of German ancestry throughout
I the country were either directlv repre
A Utter from Mrs. Carrie Chapman senU.d or u.saured the committee of
Catt, president of the National asso- sympathetic support," continues the
ciatinn, disclosed the new program statement.
somewhat prematurely, it is hinted. it quotes a formal "jJIaJTorm of
Mrs Catt's call was for meetings here principles," the substance of which was
on J.ine 6 and 7. in addition to the made public yesterday and announces
Pig suffrage parade on June i. The the adaption of the following resolu
presioeni 01 mm association is ex
pected to reach Chicago tomorrow to
take personal charge of the delegates.
tions
"We, the authorized representatives
of millions of voters in the I'nited
sciolism ss
family were present except one ,,iac,. While the Italians are holding bllIni,;irded the railway line to the east
daughter, Mrs. Anson Board, wbo WlU.bael the Austriana from further ad- (f RiKa no 0pt,rati()n uf moment has
arrive tonight, and one grandson, Vance and inflicting heavy losses on taken place on the Russian front.'
James N. II. Hill, son of Mr. ami Mrs. them, in counter attacks in Tyrol, their Mmur successes have been obtained
Samuel Hill, who will arrive from German allies have been able to make by Ih(. Russian! over the Turks in. the
Cambridge tomorrow. another fain in the character of about Rivandouza region of the Caucasus
"Vicar General Gibbons attended 3,111 peoers of Preach trenches north- frnt
Mr Hill during his last Hours ano weat vl the village ot ( umieres 011 tnu
will officiate at the funeral services ieft bank of the Meuse n;ur Verdun,
at the house and also at the grave. . Fighting of great intensity has been
The public services will be held at a progress around Hill 304 and be
tbe residence. 74u Summit avenue, 2 tween Le Mort Homme and Cumieres,
'1. m.. Wednesday. Interment will be )Ut except near Cumieres all the Ger
in private at North Oaks, where a mans' onslaughts were set at naught
family mausoleum or memorial chapel by the vigorous counter offensiveness
will probably be built. lot the French.
"Following the simplicity which the i Sectors east and west; of Fort
family know would be the desire of Douaumont, mlrtheast of Verdun have
Mr Hill, 'be icquest is made that no 1 witnessed still another violent artillery
fb wa rs or floral offerings be sent duel, but no infantry attacks were
to the house. T.iesday at 2 p. m. at launched. The artillery of both sides
the residence : a 1 ppnrtunity will be has been busy along the remainder of
given the velerai employes of the the front in France and Helgium.
Great Not them Railway company to' in Tyrol the. Austrians in the La
pay their IfSptCt and take a last carina valley and south of the Posina
farewell of M:eir OKI cmpio,-i. loiieiu llliew iieav.v HUB .ip;. ,111st.
"The a'live pall 1 carers will be the Italian positions, but the Italians
M R Brawn Rftipii lludd, Charles repulsed the attackers with cotisider-
I able losses
Enrique Moreno, secretary of state
of Sonora, whose resignation was re
ported following the accession of Adol
fo lie Ia Huerta to the governorship,
lul Ium in fcM Urialo dill
ami conferred at length with General Arredondo, the Mexican ambassador
P. Klias .'alios, his political father. ,,eslKnate w,th whom Mendez con
More,,., has refused to be interviewed ferred snld that none of his messae3
up to this time and it cannot be def-, from the foIvlBn office contained any
nitely established whether or not he j mention of any note,
has resigned. "Word that a note was coming and
Venustiano Carranza won a point on that it probably would renew the sug
Calles in their first bout when 2400 gestion that American troops be vvith
head of cattle belonging to the Cana- ! drawn from Mexico, reached the de
nea Cattle company were imported irfto partment last week. Later dispatches
the I'nited States at San Pedro, Ariz., from Mexico City said the Carranza
Sunday. Carranza had given the com- : government was taking precautions to
pany a special permit which Calles re- guard any premature publication of
fused to honor until state taxes were j the note and nothing concerning its
paid. No such payment was .made. I contents would be revealed until it
had been presented in Washington. De
facto government officials were quot
ed as saying they expected it to be
handeu to Secretary Iansing today.
Mr. Arredondo made no appoint
ment at the state department today
and as tomorrow is a legal hody,
it is certain that the note will not be
presented until Wednesday should it
arrive tonignt or tomorrow.
The protest of the oil operators in
the Tampico region against decrees
of the defacto government affecting
their work is still awaiting onsidera
Mon a. the state department It w.t-)
foi-pived at the White House and sent
to Secretary Lansing. The seizure of
several American owned tank cars has
ben the only disquieting incident in
Jhat section officially reported. A
protest will be made.
Rumors transmitted by border mil
itary officials as matters of informa
tion for the war department, said 22,
9M Carranza troops were mobilized
near Chihuahua City. Officers hare
Mowed little interest in this report.
General Scott's comment being that
General Trevino appeared to be act
ing in accordance with the Scott-Ob-regon
understanding.
Another rumor transmitted said
Mexico City papers quoted General
Puis Herrera as saying he was ready
to attack the Americans if they did
not withdraw from Mexico before
June 1. Special Agent Rodgers has
not mentioned this report. Herrera
is the officer whose alleged revolt
precipitated many alarming reports at
the time of the Columbus raid.
Nothing new has come mrough with
regard to the maneuvers of the Hul
gars in Creek Macedonia, where im
portant events are expected because of
the Bulgarian advance into Greek ter
ritory. Since the commencement of the war
SM persons have been killed and 1,616
injured in the British isles by German
attacks by sea and air, according to a
statement made to parliament by the
home secretary.
At the national association meeting States,
in
conference assembled at
(Continued on Page Two)
(Continued on Page Two)
KITCHIN THINKS TO ICR
N PREPAREDNESS PLANNED
(Continued on Page Two)
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. May 29. Majority
Leader Kitchin, in a speech in behalf
01 the naval appropriation bill in the
house today, explained that while he
believed the measure provides for
greater preparedness on sea than the
country really needed, he would sup
port it because it eliminated the navy
department's five-year building pro
gram. He devoted h mself most vigorously
Hughes Has the Majority of
the New York Delegation
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NPW YORK, May 29. A majority
f the New York delegates to the re
publican national convention favor the
nomination of Justice Hughes for pres
ident according to a statement given
out tonight by Prederick C. Tanner,
chairman of the republican 3tate com
mittee and a delegate at large.
' A canvass of the New York delega
tion, shows a clear majority for Jus
tice Hughes," Chairman Tanner de
clared. He continued:
"This is notwithstanding the high re
gard for Senator Root s ability and ex
perience and is in , spite of Justice
Hughes' refusal to take any part in the
contest."
A letter signed by William Rarnes.
as republican national committeeman
and made public here today, announced
there would be a meeting in Chicago
of the New York state delegation to
the republican national convention,
to attacking the so-called big" navy
men, asserting that the present clamor
for preparedness was due in the main
to hysteria and jingoism.
In opposing the five-year program,
Mr. Kitchin said it would be foolish
ti contract for ships at present high
prices, when it was probable thai the
cost of materials would be much lower
after the war.
General debate closed with Mr.
Kitchin's speech and the hotis'e then
began consideration of the bill under
the rule permitting five-minute
speeches on amendments. This prob-
jably will be continued untiV 4 o'clock
I Friday afternoon, the hour set for the
final vote. The house remained in
session until late this evening and the
leaders agreed to meet tomorrow at
the usual hojir. instead of recessing
over Memorial Day.
Representatives Parr ol' Pennsyl
vania. ,'irltten of Illinois, and Robberts
of Massachusetts spoke during the
day for the minority report, with its
larger building program, including two
dreadnaughts and six battle cruisers,
instea dof the five battle cruisers
(Continued on Page Two)
Eight Jurors in
the Box to Iry
Will H. Orpet
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WAUKBGAN, III., May 29. All the
efforts of both the prosecution and de
fense to complete the jury for the trial
of Will H. Orpet, university student,
for the murder of Marion Lambert,
failed today. When court adjourned
after the examination of sixty-one
veniremen there were still but eigni
jurors in the box
On the Asiago plateau the
men of two batteries which were sur
rounded on Mount Mosciag by the
Austrians vve relieved by atr Italian
Haig Tells of Actions
LONDON. May 29. General Sir
Douglas Haig, commander of the Brit
ish forces in France anfl Belgium, in a
dispatch covering the operations of
the British army in that territory from
December 19 last, when he took over
the command, until May 19, pays high
praise to the French defense at Verdun
and reviews in detail the action in
(Continued on Page Two)
FEAR OF BEING CALLED SPI
CAUSED OR. LYMAN TO FLEE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NSW YORK. May 29. The belief
that he was suspected of being a Ger
man spy and of munitions ship de-
It is expected that ! stroying, caused Dr. John Grant Ly-
UM t)ry will he completed before the lllan hurriedly to close up the broker
end of the week. 1 age business lie was operating under
Kfforts of James H. Wilkerson, at-tnP name , f j. , Putnam and com
torney for Orpet, to clear up recent 1 pany this city and flee to Florida.
i.r nyeve,.iim. June.,. tor tne pur- , providcu fr in the. bill. Mr. Farr
pose of organizing and transaction of (irew appiaKP frm the galleries hv
such business as may . ome before the , ,iocIaring in favor of the building of
meeting." The letter was sent to every 1 2r, capital fighting ships. 2r. sub
state delegation. marines and many air craft.
Some politicians interpreted the let- Representative Pritten denounced
ter as a call for "a count of noses" of j the bill as "unscientific, unbalanced
the Tcoosevelt. Hughes and Root fac- i and a patch-work of log-rolling be
tions, in view of the reported threats' tween pacificists and conservatives,
by delegates from all three camps to A score of amendments offered at
introduce resolutions at their firs; j the close of general debate were
meeting looking to that end. promptly voted down.
facts with respect to a mysienuur,
Joseph Hartman were unavailing when
court opened today. ' "V
Wilkerson vvanled.to know if States
Attorney Dady has caused the arrest
or sequestration of Hartman, but the
court ruled that the prosecution can
not In- compelled to divulge its plans
to the defense.
Hkvrtmufi is said to have visited
Wilkerson last Monday and to have
told the lawyer a story concerning
Marion Lambert. He said that Clara
Cramer, his cousin, a domestic em
ployed at I-ake Forest, told Miss Lam
bert that Hartman had a drug which
would relieve her condition. Hart
man said he gave Miss Lambert the
drug.
.Miss Cramer was said by Hartman
to lie in Toledo and Wilkerson sent
one of his partners to the Ohio city
he asserted today at the opening of his
trial in the I'nited States district court
on the charge of using the mails to de
fraud. The indictments charge thai
Di. Lyman operating under the name
of .1. II. Putnam and oompanv used the
mail:- to defruad investors who pur
chased oil and munition stocks on the
installment plan.
Lyman who also is wanted by the
federal authorities of Ios Angeles for
fleeing I run, that city while under $2,,,
000 bail, after being convincted for
operating a Panama land swindling
scheme dismissed his lawyers and act
ed as his own attorney.
Dr. Lyman indicated his defense dur
ing fie examination of talesmen vvhe'i
ho asked who their sympathies were
with in the present war.
such an astute detective as Mr. Flynn
of the I'nited States secret service and
Captain Gaunt were deceived by the
information they received concerning
me, how much easier would It be for
an ordinary man to be deceived. There
lore, when I learned that I was sus
pected of being a German spy anC
bomb man, to escaie arrest I fled and
J. 11. Putnam and company had to
close up."
After nine jurors had been chosen
I I.yman told tne court he was so fa-
tigued that he was unable to continue
and adjournment was taken
Wednesday.
until
To Recruit Militia
SAN ANTONIO, Texas. May 29
Authority was obtained from the war
department today to recruit those
units of the Texas militia now in the
federal service to war strength. Re
cruiting agents will be sent to the
towns where the various companies
were organized and there the people
will he given theirst opportunity to
enroll those lacking to bring each
Company to 1M men. It is expected
the plan will add to the forces along
the border approximately 1,500 men.
Only one squadron of cavalry and
battery' of artillery remained at the
militia camp here today. The third
regiment, the last of the militia in
fantry left here today for stations
along the border in the Brownsville
district. The. cavalry will be sent
forward this week.
Reports from General Pershing in
dicated no developments other than a
continued movement into the north of
Mexican troops. Most of the infor
mation that has reached department
headquarters relative to the massing
of defacto government troops in the
north has been of a contradictory na
ture, but from the mass General F1111
ston and his staff have separated
enough that appears reliable to indi
cate that at least 20.000 Mexicans
bave been concentrated in and about
the city of Chihuahua.
No further correspondence concern-
(Continued on Page Two)
Eight Days From Now Pablo
Lopez Faces Firing Squad
P. Leased Wire
will have recovered sufficiently from
Lopez. Villa's chief subordinate bandit,
will face the firing squad eight days
I propose to show," he said, "that , f.(,m t((, General Jacinto Trevino,
to investigate. Hartman reported that , the reason for my sudden running j milita,.y commander of northern Mex-
Miss Cramer had come to Chicago and
promised to produce her for confir
mation of the story last Saturday.
The engagement was not kept and
awflj was to escape being arrested as
ico. announced today. The announce-
rRcpoblican A.
CHIHUAHUA. Mex May 2.-PaMo! the wounds n his leg suffered at
Santa Rosa, Chihuahua's place of ex
ecution. Announcement was made here to
day that the conference which General
Gabriel Gavira, zone commander at
Juarez, has effected with General J.
J. Pershing, American expeditionary
commander, if held, will relate to the
disposition of Mexican forces in north-
the state was detaining Hartman I introduce in evidence showing that I jjevino said .hat the prison physician ern Chihuahua and the occupaion of
Dady admitted today that he knew bave been suspected of making bombs I informed him that the bandit captured positions as the' Americans retirl
where Hartman was. 'o be put on munitions ships, and if several weeks ago was improving and I gradually.
German spy and charged with ptac- I men, was m.(ll,. following the receipt
log ot nomns on snips. 1 nave a - j Df u message from Alvaro OttSgon,
tcr from Captain Guy Gaunt, the Brit-, mjjster of war, asking if Lopez al-
today Wilkerson demanded to know if : :sli naval attache, which I propose to ,.eady had been put to death. General
