TRUST MAGNATE'S FORTUNE AT DISPOSAL OF ORPET DEFENSE
. * i
l I wish to thank all those who helped me *
l during my misfortune of loosing a cow. Kspe- 9
F dally do I wish to thank Mr. Nick Koivisto, •
I who collected »:(."..in. and Mrs. Hill, who col- %
t !<■! i-il 911.75. I li<i|i,> l. Ml will giw mi(ti».s V
p to iill these people all tlirough life. Mr. Nick *
L .Vanhtt.—Adv. in the Two Harbors (Minn.) M
i Journal News. 9
;mnnnwann»inamamnnnniai>iaiDwl
T- R. SOUNDS HIS "KEYNOTE"
GREETED BY KANSAS CITY CHILDREN; GETS GREAT OVATION
Schoolmates Strew Flowers
On Marion Lambert's Grave
F.leanore Double placing' floueis on the grave of her dead
schoolmate, .Marlon Lambert.
CHICAGO, May 30. — Marion
Lambert's grave today was trans
formed into a sylvan shrine by
her devoted schoolmates of Deei
fleld high school.
The grassy mound In Lake
Forefy cemetery is mantled with
violeti, hepaticas and other spring
flowei*.
Not only tlie school girls, but
many others who knew the girl
MILLIONAIRE BACKS
THE ORPET DEFENSE
WAUKEQAN, 111.. May 30. —
If it takes thousands of dollars
to save Will Or|iet from the gal
lows, the thousands will bo forth
coming, according to reports
here.
Orpet, former Wisconsin uni
versity student, is on trial on a
charge that he poisoned to death
Marion Lambert, who was his
neighbor, childhood chum and
sweetheart at Lake Forest, ill.,
their home.
Cyrus Hall McCormick, head of
tbe International Harvester Co.,
son of the inventor of the reaper,
and a multi-millionaire, will pay
the bill for Orpet's defense, it is
There's Comfort
and Satisfaction
in Having Your
Money With An
Institution of
Unquestioned
Reliability
PUGET
SOUND
STATE
BANK
H. N. Tinker,
Pres.
whose love for Will Orpet led to
her death, and to his trial on a
murder charge, pay tribute to her
hy piling her grave with flowers.
"A year ago Marion was with
us on all our flower-picking
tramps in the woods," said
Kleanore Double, one of Marlon's
classmates, who has been keeping
tho mound beautiful. "She can't
gather the flowers any more, so
we are doing it for her."
Bald.
The millionaire has been sub-
Will Testify Also,
poenaed as a character witness
for Orpet.
McCormlck's Interest in Orpet
was evident from the day last
February when the college boy
was arrested.
James H. Wilkerson, attorney
for the International Harvester
works, whose fee ln private prac
tice is never leßs than $100 a day,
was retained by Orpet's father.
Wilkerson's fees are running into
the thousands.
\\ b> should the head of
the International Harvester
Co., leader of Chicago's most
exclusive social set, take this
paternal interest in his sup
erintendent's son?
Sentimenl. is the way his
friends explain lt.
Almost 20 years ago Orpet's
parents took positions on the
McCormick estate, Elm Farm? at
Lake Forest. They brought with
them to the gardener's lodge a
beautiful baby boy, with curls
like burnished copper and eyes
like violets. The baby was
"Willie" Orpet.
Heady to Foot Bill.
From the first the millionaire
Inventor took a fatherly interest
in his gardener's son.
During his school days at Lake
Forest, young Orpet was treated
as one of the McCormick house
hold. On McCormlck's advice the
Orpets sent the boy to college.
When tlie student advanced in
his studies no one was prouder
of his cleverness than McCor
mick.
When Orpet was arrested no
oue was more grieved than the
millionaire.
It costs fortunes to free men
of murder charges, but it Is said
the head of the International
Utfi'/ester Co. la willing to pay
'aft/fbill, however large it may be.
The Tacoma Times
125 c A MONTH. THE ONLY INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER IN TACOMA. 2fc A MONTH.
VOL. XIII. NO. m. TACOMA. WASH» TUESDAY, MAY HO. 1916. lc A COPY
APPEALS EARNESTLY
FOR PREPAREDNESS
KANSAS CITY, Mo., May 30.—1n a speech, punctuated by typical Roose
velt aphorisms, Col. Roosevelt this afternoon laid before a Memorial Day
gathering here his platform of principles.
The address was concededly the colonel's "keynote" for the
1916 campaign.
In it he had everything from preparedness to the tariff.
Primarily it was an appeal for preparedness—of the military,
of the business world, of the spirit, of the heart, of the soul.
It was a hitter Indictment C*f American tlel'enselessiiess, of
Henry Ford (although not by name) of the administration's "lofty words"
and "mean actions, of social oppression.
lie begged his auditors to work for a navy "second in the list of world
armaments, and for an army of 250,(100 nun—regulars—witl
universal service and training among the citizenry.
He urged leaders "absolutely national in spiritual Wash
ington; demanded a nation which stood "for the principles of so
cial aud industrial justice," 1 approved a protective tariff; asked
abolition of child labor; insisted upon regulation of both busi
ness and of labor, and urged social and economic justice.
The colonel minced no words in attacking pacifjaa. One definition was:
"Merely the tool of the sensual materialist who hift no ideals, whose shriv
eled soul is wholly absorbed in automobiles, and the movies, and
money-making, and in tlie policies of tht: cash register and Ihe
stock ticker and the life uf fatted ease."
"False prophets," he dubbed the opponents of preparedness,
and "foolish apostles" and their doctrines "slothful, lazy opti
mism."
He assailed the Wilson administration for not taking action, which he
said was demanded by treaties to mitigate the horrors of war, when Belgium
was over-run.
"If in our foreign policy we are weak, if we nse lofty worth at the same lime that we commit
mean or unworthy actions, and above all, if we fail to protect our own lights, we shall not secure
the good will of anyone, and we shall incur the contempt of other nations; and contempt of that
kind Is easily turned into active international violence," he warned In another passage.
"This is one of the great years of decision in our national history. The way in which we now de
cide will largely determine whether we are to go forward in righteousness and power or backward In
degradation and weakness. We are face to face with elemental facts of right and wrong, of force or
feebleness. According to the spirit in which we face these facts and govern our actions, we shall de
termine whether in the future we shall enjoy a growing national life, or rafter a lingering national
decay.
"First and foremost, friends, ] ask you to beware of the false prophets, both the prophets of
sordid materialism and of that silly sentimentalism which refuses to look through this in the face of
truths which are unpleasant."
The colonel scornfully referred to persons who two years ago maintained that a great war was
impossible, and said it was to be expected after the present war, "their shrill pipings" would again
rise. •
Roosevelt said he believed in "international duty,", and explained International
duty as malting a nation a member of a commonwealth, jrllli the dut> not only
to refrain from wronging the weak, but according to our capacity and as oppor
tunity offers stand up for the weak when the weak are wronged by the strong.
"We cannot meet tho future either by mere gross materjitfism or hy mere
silly sentimentalism; above all, we cannot meet It if we»t*erapt to balance gross
materialism in action by silly sentimentalism in words," the colonel Raid.
"When this is over, it is possible that some one of tbe combatants, being
fully armed, will assail us because we offer ourselves as a ricli and helpless prize.
"On tho other hand, it is also possible that there will be temporary exhaustion among tno com
batants and a willingness, even with the present most brutal ijsd ruthless, to go through the form
of saying that they arc peaceful and harmlese.
"ln such event there will be real danger lest our peoj^lf be influenced by the foolish apostles
of unpreparcdness to accept this condition as permanent and oice more to shirk our duty of getting
reudy."
The former president pointed to the Mexican "war" as an example of unprcparedness, and bit
terly assailed the stripping of coast artillery men from fortifications to press them into service as
infantrymen in .Mexico.
lie turned next to the administration's attitude in the world war.
"The failure to prepare," he said, "the failure to stand up for the rights of ourselves and of
others, yielding to wrong-doing, resulted both in deferring the d«y when it was possible for this nation
to act aa peacemaker, and In bringing us Immeasurably nearer to the danger of ourselves being in
volved in the conflict.
Weakness invites contempt. Weakness combined with bluster invites both contempt and aggres
sion. Sell-respecting strength that respecta the rights of others is the only quality that secures re
spect from others. -
The former president said the transportation of troops franj Russia to France; from Australia to
Gallipoli, Illustrated the fallacy of the claim that the ocean vt-as preparedness insurance for tlie
He urged universal training as a means, not only of national preparedness, but of democratizing.
Referring to business regulation, the colonel said:
The aim of government should not be lo destroy the great industrial units, but.
while encouraging them, to regulate them in the interests of the people as a whole."
Abolition of child labor, he said, was necessary Jiccaime "in addition to treating
our brother man and sister woman as we would Wish them to treat us, we must
also endeavor, so fur as we ai« able, to secure then*. Just treatment by others."
"The end we have in view," the colonel concluded, "is a high and fine national
life, based on an industrial efficiency which shall be accompanied by social and eco
nomic Justice. Military preparedness against War i|r merely a means to this end.
out ii is an maispensable means. We are not fit to be free men tftiless we show the forethought
and willpower necessary to Insure that we ourselves shall have we right to decide our own destinies,
and not be forced helplessly to submit to have them decided by'alien conquerors.
"What I thus say does not represent anything new in.principle. On the contrary, the principles
thus set forth have received the lip loyalty of many men betyfe election, who after election forget
their pre-election promises.
"What we need In our public men is performance, not promises "to treat a platform merely as a
means of getting office, not as a covenant to be kept in office, is demoralizing both to the public and
to the servants of tlie public." ,
KANBAS CITY. Mo., May 30.—
Full of energy and fight. Colonel
Theodore Roosevelt brought his
keynote message to Kansas City
today.
Thirty thousand spectators
lined the streets from the rail
way station to the hotel. The
colonel stood in hia automobile
for the entire distance, waving
his famous black slouch hat in
response to the cheering,*
In the Hotel Muehlenbach lob
by the colonel stopped as he saw
to little girls massed in front of
the clerk's desk, each dressed in
the stars and stripes and each
wearing a Columbia cap.
The moment they sighted
Roosevelt they burst out singing
a,. i ■ ■■■■■■ i ... i — i ■ ■ .1 ni i
"The Star Spangled Banner,"
their shrill voices sounding high
above the roar of the crowds out
side. They repeatedly sang the
anthem, then changed to "Amer
ica I Love Thee." while the col
onel stood spellbound, his face
suffused with emotion.
"I simply must say a few words
to these children," be cried.
H COL. MOSBY, CIVIL B
J* WAR RAIDER, DIES W
PI ON MEMORIAL DAY R
W«S£5. U \slllM.lu\, n r. M.,\ Burnside. facing that of Lee along j^
\^^S. ::n.—The iliiwuiii; nl Mi'inor- the Knppahannock river. Hi raid r^*^&
J( i.il dii) hiiiiight mill ii ''tii there was the tii tof in.tin that lf^Si
._ this morning the death of took tlie heart out of the I'liiou J
m}!Ki». I 01. .1.,1ni Mushy, one ol the men, who felt the sting of Ills lit- |?H5»
IpS^— - hi*l "I 'be (lashing nu snt tie bam] nf waspllke cavalrymen TOs3&
|£^^ tlie i nil „.,i li wa' Mosliy's plan to liii i|iilck |C?.^&
li He bad been critically ill since aud hard always from behind, II
W^ Sunday. Heath came in tlie liar- when be was nil oil' from all help feib.
TOJE-X fiolil hosriital «:i!i hostile troops between hiui ff jgiiS
l&t^S. ('nl. Mosliy, the sponsor nf and his people, Ho wa, captured 1&3S;
llf'^g "Mosbv s .Men. ' was admired both nine and wounded several times. ll
Im _. "* by North and South although be When be was captured he was
■HR-, had man., enemies in liotli sec- taken to Washington II flK>2»
lHss*?J£. tions. matter n& regret lor the north that \t3?3&
Ip^i'i lie was ,'lie originator of the lie was soon exchanged and scut lf^^S
ll Mosby method of warfare; to use beck to bis army. |~
\an>». only picked men and to make Kft*T
ifig-U, each man seem a hundred. StaitleS the Soutll PslS:
I^X5. So dangerous was lie to the A'tcr the war and alter lien. Ite^R
|p">*si north Hint he was declared an out- Grant, by his magnanimous ardor, " mS
. law and denied Ike riglit ol sur- j,;,,) the order of outlaw ry against
■fe^ render al the end nl the win. | ura lifted Mosl.j started (■> piac F^Si
iHSft , _ tl'-e law in Warrenton. Va. I^Ss^
lp« Declared an Outlaw «• Martini the south when in li^a
I favaiiyiiien searched for Meoby I til M voted for Qrral a hated
iii Hie Virginia mountains until republican mv president. iHE^fr
HKSK, i. en i,i.mi. appealed to li Mos Virginians could mil understand P^^S.
ISS ,IV s wil°' ordered tin out iiwri oi Ihe motives nf Colonel Mosby. lf*''<isL
II mar eaaealrt. OattaitmaA, bo left Warrenton II
t When the Confederacy tailed and went to Washington. W^».
SSjKJ. for troops, Moslij enlisted wilii In I SMli be entered Ihe depart- Mft«y
l^^S. <!<'" ■' |,;' " Sin.iris First Vit nient ol justice as special attor- VT^aA
IP^^S cima e:i vali > In Siuaii ami do ncy. He wai removed as "senile" jlp^^^X
" by, the regimem furnished the b> Attorney general Wickersliam .
. * soutll two of Its famous olficers. in 19 10. Coincident with his re-
T6js2^. Stuart, Iben colonel, became moval, he published a book on the (HSR
lfc&tq. cavalrj leader for the s It, and cavalry maneuvers of Ihe battle IttrSfc
|p «ft*^ it was to him that Mosby out- ol Cettysburg ihat seemeii sn far II
lined the plan he bad conceived from 'senile" that it was adopted -i^
|flE^> for Mosby's Men. text hook by tbe win college. K9B&.
i&^& In tbe winter of lll{*C] the Sim c his removal liom office, lfe^S
IBSfc plan was completed and launched. *'01. Mosby had made his home lp"*l3S
IJ Mosliy, given a roving commission, with his daughter. Mrs. Stuart
am** ' circled to the rein ol (leneral t'oleman, in Wusbington. H^e
"You delightful persons," he ad
dressed tliem. "I Would gladly
have traveled all the way simply
to see this. Nothing could be
finer or prettier."
He launched strongly into his
theme of preparedness to avert
war.
"The Spanish-American war
was small." lie said, "but if we
bad not had a navy well prepared
there would have been 10 times
tho bloodshed.
"On this day of all others I
want to appeal to the patriotism
of the great West and Middle
West —which I know will stand
right.
"I am not afraid In the least
that the American people when
an appeal comes won't have brave
sons ready, but I am anxious that
there be no useless bloodshed be
cause we aro not prepared." said
Roosevelt.
Then be shook the children's
hands and fought his way
through the throng to his room.
The Man Bit
His Lip
'My dew young friend'
lio said, 'do yon think that
is qtiite sensible V
'No,' said the girl, '1
don't, biit—'
And, of course, she held
to her own view. Then,
one night as the maid and
the man bathed in the sil
very rays of a midnight
moon, they plighted tlicit
love, though they never
could agree about 'Son ot
the Wind' as long as he
lived.
'Son of the Wind' is tin
next novel-a-week in The
Times, beginning next
Mon da}'.
«^h*«LISHT EDITION*****
I WEATHER 1
E Tacoma: Showers tonight and 2
# Wednesday. I
C Washington: Same. *
*iiiiiiliiiiii>iimiiniiiHiiiiiiiiMHiiH*
I Talk o' the Times |
Greetings, 1 met a man from Singapore, and one from llindoo
stan, a boatman from the Upper Nile, a clerk fioiu yucntan. Kaclj
one was telling of tlie joys that made his native laud the swellest
place on earth to live. They bragged to beat the band. Just v, hat
they had to boast about was not quite clear to me, but to these
simple Gentlemen "t«us plain as one, two, three.
"The snakes are bigger every year where flows the mighty
Nile!" So spake the Kthiopiau, and smiled a lofty smile. Another
bragged that chewing gum in his land grew on trees, a third that
folks in his home town wore nothing but the breeze And en h was
sure that Paradise was back where be was born, and each one tooted
lustily his native country's horn.
"The poor old boons!" I simply said, "their beads are made of
ham! They boast ahout their bailiwicks, which are not worth a yam.
And yet 1 know Americans who sit up nights and knock.
They bruise the land tlint gave them birth all day by any cloct.
If we must have a whipping-post, let's use it on the guy who tries
to give bis native land ■ lilack-und-bliie eye!
The Ford hoom's all critnk
< <l up mid now here to go.
If Doc Waite's germs really had
worknl well for him there'd have
been some casualty list, we opine.
Miss (ic-rtritde Lovell sat deep
ly interested in a most exciting
love story she was reading on an
American lake car.
She held her car-slip In one
band, and in the other hand sb<>
held a bunch of violets.
When the conductor came
along she held out the violets In
stead of the car-slip.
"And the mean thing kept
them," reports the vexed Miss
Lovell.
QRKAT CRISES IN THK
I,ll'K OF A MMUtIKD
MAX
Xumber I.
When your wife asks you
(o drop in at v downtown de
part ment store and buy her
six pail's of Milk •.nuking"..
We always supposed that
onions were vegetables, and rath
er a strenuous form of vegetable
at that.
But yesterday Mrs. A. Frailer
brought uh in a candy box filled
with onions tnat have entirely
rertsed our Idea. We know now
that some onionn are a fruit, a
confection, an ambrosia. There
are ontMM und onions.
William Young'N idea of «
SOFT HNAP. (Bill is trca—
ttrcr of the 8. 8. at the Ist
I'resby.)
