tTTT
'.IX,
"-11:
v,i
-. ,-"
V"X
lj lEmmtraj Herald
MHMBMII
7,
KLAMATH COUNTY'S
OFFICIAL NEWlPAPER
KLAMATH VALLfe
r
Vr y
OFFICIAL MXWtPAMte
' Wi
'fcfrgH-,
...
Ttnth Ysr Ne. J.0BI
KLAMATH FALLS, OKKQON, TUESDAY, MAX 30, 1916
PrtmPty
sl
;
.
VIOLENT TEU10N
OFFENSIVE 6ET8
FRENCH TRENCHES
FRINCH CLAIM TO HAVE REQAIN.
10 GROUND
President Wilson's Secretary
and Publicity Agent
fighting Around Cumleree and Along
the Mslse U Still Intense Frtnch
Hurled luk From Read Connietlng
Cumleree and Nearby Villages ltl.
lans Art Icing Forced Back by the
Austrian Advance.
United Preea Service
PARIS, May 30. It la officially an
nounced that the Germans, by n power
ful aasault, drove the French from
South Bethlncourt to. Cumlerex. Tim
calm, however, did not exceed 120
yard.
The Oerranna also attacked between
Dead Man's Hill and Cumlcrca. KUe
where In the fighting northwest of
Verdun the Teuton attacks were huc
cesufully repulsed.
The Oermans are now atrlklng noutli.
ward against the vlllago of Cumlero
and the highway connecting II with
Ene. In this way they are attempt
,tay to xqueexe the French out of the
whole region between Dead Man's Mill
and the Mount, and thus force u con
oral French retirement to Clmnmy
lirldge.
Following a day of bombardment
wrst of C,umicrri, the, Germans thin
morning launched a now division, Jum
arrived, against the village. Assaults
of Intense fury were launched on tho
eautern slog of Dead Man's Hill. They
collapsed under French Ore, and the
Ovrmans also lost heavily In. Cauretto
woods. VIF.NNA, May 30. Tho Italians nn
preparing to evacuate Anlago, the
largest Italian town threatened by the
Aiutrlaaa sine they started their of
fensive against Italy. Aslngo is twenty-two
mile fros Vicenaa, tho goal of
tbe Austrian offensive.
It Is officially announced that, Austria
has also crossed the Asso valloy. near
Roana. Tola force threatens to sur
round the Italians
The Italian troops are vainly trying
to stop the advance.
. . i . " ''imtmmmmmmmmmmW IfiWii
:f , if9sSSSSS4
1 ' 't;V' ' v.MV'gggHsXpJ
.4sSSSSk . Wi'lVtn. ? ifi 'JtJtWymffifiExvA
tSSSSP? '''f'vvv-SHfiiSMS
"ifi -1 , iiiWfi)''4BSSSSSSSsV
Jak aW4;' aggggggggggggggB
MSmMaHLfega ' -dBSSSSSSSSSSSl
, SSSSSSSSSSSSS'gaSSSSSSSSSSSSSJ
1 "SSSSSSSSSSSSFaaaaaVBSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSs
jKVSSSSSSSSSjMMgfi'jfSSSSS) SSSSSSSSSSSSSSJ
.iaxeaaaaaaaaaaax
slggggaMEilMAsW . tH
ssVaBKMsm' VmMW
sWsHfigggL J IsSSSSSSSSSsH
'ff BSMsBwlliSM'' fgggggggggggggggH
SSfef$igSSSM '' Vv; 4ssssssssssssl
-'gggMiaSSSSsl' V:gggggggggggggggggfl
' SSSSSKiLxiaSaiaSSSSSB, &iV'4ggggggggggggggggggggl
oaaaaanSBs? 'BjaaTaenaaaaaaa Plyct aeaaaaaaaaaaaaaaxa
. lalalalaVKftsSinBSSB SSSSSSSSSSSSl
. SSSSSSBJiusSSBSHaSSSSSSSSSSSSJ
BSSSSSBaBSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSJ
i BSSSSSBBgaSSSSSSSSSSlSSgBiiBiiBiiBiiBiiBI
aiSSSSHVSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSBI
r gggggtfiBHsBsggggggggggggga
"T sssv -sssssssssssssssssssssssll
t- iallllllllSlith?'aallllllllllllllllllllllHI
R f ' '"' gnSSr ' W''llgalalalalalaH I
BBSgV (' ;--'-"'KL'aggggaWE8algaaBI"
IKXP9Pni "'-' IggailailawSPSffiTBalawB
Wm&& -;iM v.Psssssssjlicasj
SSSflS .xfcVL ?r' Piy5iSSH3K39BSlB
)&Xal,Zn. 3sat;caUaJMV)ua:ltifc
gggggfMHHSaaSSSSVHgl
ROOSEVELT OPENS
CAMPAIGN TODAY;
SCORES PACIFISM
BIO OVATION tlVEN BY THI BT.
COUIS PUBLIC '
RESTA LEADS AT
END OF 75 LAPS
IN MOTOR EVENT
INDIANAPOLIS CLASSIC IS BIO
EVINT
In Addition to Hit Keynote Speech, the
Celenel Makes a Sliert Talk fer Pre
aarepaiaa When Scheel CMWsm
I Storm Hla Hotel, Deneunclng These
. Who Weld hlBafy" the United
State.
i
The rush of work by the reclaasaUe
service last spring; to ealarg la
hurry the GriStth lateral, la to he dupll-.
cated this, year to a eertala exteat A
end In the run, With Chevrolet, an .rush order for the completion of a tat-
Puegeot Makes an Average of Eighty-
Seven Miles an Hour Altken
Old
"Come-Back," In Third Place.
Twenty-One Cars Started In the Big
Sweepstakes Race.
United Pree Service
; BT. LOUIS. May 30. Before tbous
anda of people, Roosevelt this after-
United Press Service) '
INDIANAPOLIS, May 30 At the
end ef the 75th lap of the 300 mile
noon opened Us whirlwind speaklag International sweepstakes race today,
tour in an address la' which In scored " ". . ' P"
. .averaging S7 miles an hour,
those opposing proper prepared. L MtkM, 4rMnn . p,ugtotf
and outlined hto. views ot today prokvjo,, an- Chevrolet. In a Prentenae,
leaas. ;was third.
Thousands Used th atreett hatweam
the sUtion and Roosevelt's hotel, audi INDIANAPOLIS SPEEDWAY. May
they cheered wildly. The Cotoael stood '30. The interest of the bit; crowd all-
tag grandstand, bleachers and Infield
in hla auto th entire dlntanee. wavlnc
. . . ,. at tttA .lUMtwIir tAt-n trtAmir m9tmm-A In
dreuAd i (am Md attempted come-back of Louis
oreaseo in scars aao p. -t ti snn anfrivftto. numki
stripe, massed to front of th, hotel of thfl fam0Uf tefJa
and saas the aatioaal aathaas.. The- ,,. ,, Z 1 ion.- r-
his. soft hat
Forty girta
tat, with twenty-eight other world-
J famous' speed devils, faced th starter
Colonel addressed that brieftr; urgiag:
preparedaesa to avert warr saying:
"I nav ao rear USX wasav U ap- i tha aixth annual International
peal come Asaeriea. will not hav sweepstakes 300-mile dash over th
brave son ready and anxious to serye Ipedway of vitrified brick,
her. but lass anxious tail there should, Chevrolet's two team' suites have
be no UMloaa Mcaaiiaa-waCTOIedtteg
ore noi praraa. -. an spoa. whUe Mrtag a toartajcear
oneay oa "MMeuttH.r wsesscisi at'a.gaail'a pace-ra.-the Wtecoasia re-tho-
Who ly pat" a? atat Olg:;iAalMtyr run flvw men am. and .Uk
. i -h.' " : : m tl -- -.-.i- tt
Mosby.Romantic Raider,
Answers Final Summons
uncn aanavp.,.- s - rBmsdled'atConmarwiei a
t Five thousand peop la claawrad forar of hto IBeBot lms Chevroletraloae
.'..Hpcech at the- hotL- sad.Roosavalt- reasiliis-to uphohU th honor of the
4 made, tha addraaa lroas.4wiadew: osv Threes Muakter of. other daya;
'the aeooad Soar. - ' t- I Cherrolet nominated-three cara for
i His addTemwwjcoaeedcdlr-thaCol-'the Memorial Day classte, all of hi
Joseph Tumulty Frederick W. 8ttekman .jo"el,,,keJr,,ote for-thet 11 caaipaign. own design and construction and bear-
, S- , ,.. t. r Ih'ltiia covered vrythlng from pra- lng th name of Frontenac. The mc-
. i . n.,h, urn,... 'i,Jsrdness:to,th tarUf.-' Primarily. It tors are of aluminum, and will develop
This photograph of Joseph Tumulty. ..ccretary to President Wilson. J of 125 hor-epower. The
fulcen Juki outoido tlio executive omcea on the Whlto House grounds mlutaty..ottn, huaiaaaa. world, of the cars are exceptionally light, tipping
other day it shows him talking to Frederick Steckman. who has Just Men .pirtt.-of.the heart, of th soaL. It was the scales at 1,750 pounds. -appointed
publicity "Bent for tho national democratic, committee. an indictment of American defenseless-! Following tbe 1910 Vanderbillt cup
tieSS.,or Henry ora 'ailSOUga not Dymw me -eu vauuerum. to wuco
name), by unmistakable lafaraae, of bis car ran wild and kUled his me-
the administration's "lofty, words" and Ichanlc, the veteran retired from th
"mean -actions" of social-oppression, jgame, but Its lure brought him back.
He -begged hla auditors to-work for a, Chevrolet returned in 1914. driving In
navy -.."second in th Hat ' of world the tortuous Cactus Derby in which
menta," and for an army of 150,-, Barney Oldfleld won the title of the
ANOTHER HORRY
JOD TO START
aaaassBsaat S
RECLAMATION SERVICE TO PUT
ON AS MANY TEAMS AS POSSI
BLE ON TULE LAKE LATERAL
CONSTRUCTION WORK
, i. k. . . ' '3' , ,
nrninTrn idmii
ucniiiicu mmD.
in itnunnm Siting
ia nimiiRni mr-
KLAMATH f All
?
rnmmmtrmM Main wnM m
mwwMWIwiv rn-mwm wVMnw"VH :a.'
-" t .
PBATURI
"i
Scheel Children and Priti tselelaa
'if,-
March
In
'-SiP
flvCwMNvn pP
;sry, Where Oravaa Ar
Jitdf Mlett Pay lMm
to the Beys f Slxty-On bt
In Park Taaf.
A fitting observance
Day Is belag held In
of the Republic, Sprague Chapter Wo
man's Relief Corps, veteraaa of atkar
n mv
m;9.
BaslSMBaCW
EryJC
hi&B3&F;t&
of Masflal
' - . xi
msaiBtB' rails
r- i .1.-JC
f" tH'.
X
eral ayatem at Tule Lake baa been re
ceived, and all (the teams possible ar
wanted by the service at once.
Part of th work is to be don by
force account Other parts will be tot
in smalUcontracta. Bids oa the con
tract work will be opened at 10 o'clock
Monday'mornlag at th service build-ias-
y
During this Job $30,000 la money will" Members of Sprague Post, Oraad
be distributed in Klamath county. ,Tae
won u to be completed July l. ; t
Th lateral avateaa U to a haltt
alon tha reclaimed Tale Lake land. war8 ana PUDUC spiniea
on the north shore, between Merrill combined to pay honor to tea aaMeafa
end Italia. The ownera of land there "roee, wno nave aaswerea revesiss aa
recently sent a petition to Washington, reaIm beJr01'
urging the construction of these lat- J two hundred school chlldteav
erals. but before this reached Washing- UIC v ocoui. memeer oi tae xw
Ion, a special agent of the reclamation "" napier ana veteran .trear
eearice visited the Tule Lake country. CP1B w premiaestipaws aa
conferred with Project Manager Camp, e Procession, which waa ale Joined
and ordered the laterals contracted aa W on ot "to-obi
noon aa Boaaikte. h citizens. Captain O..C. AlPlsaats,.
I
Bring Hla Wife.
Oeorge N. Hammond, who has made.
w nawe UHaww apoear i. or-
aw. t.1 -eiM f m ! m Ammm S.m
."- "' Y mmty - W"-!.!! WVwutt. Is h tnAm VSri
Ma-4. Mwkla ! Mil.- taJt V la m. T f . m "
ukmv ui mm ivnm savsw nv mm m
. was grand marshal, with W. A. DshsW.
;W: Frank Araat and R. H. Deabar aa
'JM.Iak mamtiatn Writltaam afclr ?'
wno as a ooy waa a meaaser ox uapuca
Applegate's troop ot rough rider aa4 4
companled by Mrs.
trip.
niMBJaVWIll OB ,
f
again under his old commander, that
time aa; stwtarJ., bearer. ' ,
Those who ilea at aea fox taetraa-
Btr high acheef. letrtaai i
rnrtlamt- TUara. "aeat
JaUhaV.
by ta Cett
and: Post, and sowars wre aeattarad
aa-the
The
lag memory.
moved to tte cesBStsry. 'waeai-taf.xai-''
V
:n
il
court. aott to trie e t taat saa-'wm-iu.i i..i ...mi.;.- -fc..."-
0,.ww-..w - - . -" ' - -T "T-. -"-
norteacbi
and noma were oaaerved. Tha nerad.
broke-rank there to allow the anearav
IVI M UK) limt
Upon the return of. the veteraaa they
MISSION TALKS
ARE: I
NSPIRING
MAN WHO SHARED WITH "JEB"
8TUART THE CREDIT FOR CONFEDERACY'S-
BRILLIANT AND
DARING CAVALRV ACHIEVE.
MENTS, 01 ES TODAY AT THE
NOME OP HIS DAUOHTER IN
WASHINGTON
Uulted Tress Service j
WA8HINOTON, May 30.-Coloncl
Jorp Mesby, eraaaUer and leader of
"Mosby's Raider," the South' great- j
est cavalry command In tho Civil War, j
died here today. He haa been sinking '
rapidly of late, and hla death was ex
pected.
Colonel Moeby, the sponsor of "Mos
by'H Men," and on of tbe last of the'
j.t. . . . .. ... i
uasning Bgurea or th civil war, was
l-red both by North and South al
Uoh he had sissy enemlos In both
Hetloss.
He waa the originator of the Mosby
m viy "MaaBaA t
a nBJwMsiajEBKasHSBHi
aaaiii 'NtaHria'PJBjBvaBeaHl
BaaaPJt'' Ev i . tv aaal
FATHER OJtEILLY'8 8ERMONS AT
SACRED HEART CHURCH TOUCH
UPON MATTERS OF VITAL
TEREST TO ALL ..,
IN.
armaments,'
000 men regulars, with universal ser
vice and training among the citizenry:
he urged leaders "absolutely national
master driver of the world.
The shortening of the Indianapolis
race from 600 to 300 miles Increased
In spirit" at Washington; demanded a; rather than decreased its popularity.
nation which stood for the principles
of .social and industrial justice." ap
proved a protective tariff; asked abo-
'-
l(tlon of child labor; Insisted upon rag-
Colonel John Mosby
. ulatlon of, both business and: of labor
.and urged;soelal and ecoaeaalcjustlee.
7 '.The Colonel minced no words In at-
A'.Hcilert of moeilngs or unusual in-tacking pacificists. Ona definition was,
terem are bolng held at Sacred Heart "Merely the tool ot the sensual mater-1
church this week by Rev. P. J. O'RalUy. iallstwho has no Uatfwtos- shrtv-j
S. J. of Portland, who Is conducting .... d ... mortaB. ,-4 mont
. .' . e Il" " " - '
wcek'H mission. This mission is large '.nuking, and In th poUetea of th cash
ly for tho spiritual uplift of th Cath-j register and the stock ticker." and th
life of fatted ease.
"False' prophets." he. dubbed the op
ponents of preparednees, and "foolish
apostles, and their doctrine "sloth
ful, lasy optimism." He vitrotically as
sailed the Wilson administration for
not taking a stand which as said waa
demanded by treaties to mitigate the
horrors -of. war, aad take-action whoa
Belgium was orcrraa.
1 "Thls;ls on of th great yeari ef
decision. in our national history," a
declared. 'The way ia whieh We sow
decldewlUlargely dtrmla whether
w ar togo forward la rtghteottsaes
and power or backward ia degradatioa
and-weakness. W are face to face
with elemeatal faeto of right and
wrong, ot force or feebleness. Accord
ing to tha spirit la whieh we faee thea
From FertrCeuatry;
Wiluaw'8kcai who. baa-a ranch on!.
the Upper Marsh. Is a county seat vtoj 'ik the local clergymen; were, g
.of the Relief Corps at a dinner. TUa
waa'lfideedon of the moCeJoyabto
Mr. and Mr. F. O. Bunting and MIs'featurC8 ot aie g& ai.tab talk
Ruby Bunting, all of Lakevtow. are reg-drlted to memories of the WlMras.
Istered at the HalL j vicksburg, Gfettysburgr'BuU' Run. aad
Ray Freuer la in today from Bonanxa
on a business trip. j
other sanguinary fields, the eye of the.
1 u :
.Continued oa Paae:t
ollc congregation, but the meetings are
open to nil, and ns the talks are large
ly on general lines, the. non-Catholics
attending And much inspiration from
tho splendid treatment Father O'Reilly
gives his arguments.
No attempt Is made to Induce those
attending to accept the faith, but, any
question regarding tho faith or teach;
Ings ot tbe Catholic church will be ex
plained in full, with no obUgatlon being
placed upon the Inquirer. s
As his name suggest Father O'Reil
ly does not come from any of th.
races fighting around Vicenza, and his
discourses are further proof ot this oa
account of tho Coltlo humor interpo
lated at times to make an explanation
universally comprehensible. And like
tho rest ot bis race, tbe speaxer is pee-
The prizes the twenty-nine drivers
compete for amount to 130.000 In cash
with three Intermediate trophies and
$13,000 to the winner.
Today's race win be unique In that
no former winner on the Indianapolis
Speedway will be represented among
the drivers.
Barney Oldfleld, the father ot Amer
ican auto racing, will pilot a Delage.
"It I win today this will be my last
race," said oidneid, just Decora tae
race started.
Favored next to Oldfleld is Dario
Resta, th greatest European driver.
Speedway tans remember the great
race Resta drove last year, when he
pushed De Palma to a record-breaking
speed to win. Third favorite ia Josef
Christlaens, who while not so well
known as Resta or Oldfleld, did 10
miles an hour on the Brooklaada track.
Oil "Anderson, winner of the 1115
Sheepahead Bay race, is another driver
who will be watched. Eddie ODonnell
baa shown by bis two 300-mlte victories
on the Pacific Coast this season that
he is a contender. Altken aad Ruckea
backer are also expected to place la
the monty.
That the 300-mile record would b
broken waa a practically unanimous
prediction Just before th big race
started.
Then and Now-a Verbal
Painting of This Basin
'-:
sessed of a most wonderful conuaaad facte and-govern ear settee, we shall
miouch ut tho Mosby plantation nt
tn.ll..., .a . ... -I-I..J . '..-. ..... Vlnrlnln
r:..? :"!?: "rBjir..rr: rr.rr sr r: -rzw' w..t..r .,. w
-"-- B.u - aaaauaa uiau avaiws iiHrii iiu niia wweaa -
hundred. Bo dangerous D t0. the grnduateij from tho University of Vlr
te;ms to bring out the elevating trend-ahall aajoy a grawiac Battoaal Ufa. or
of lilo thought. Furthermore, be is ajt a Magrlag aatleaal deeay.
poHscssed of unusual deuvery. ..pjrat and forelnest, friads, I ask
Services are hold every evening, at you to beware of the fate profaeta,
7; 30 at tho ehurch. In addition, there both th prophet ef aordtd ajaUrlal
la n mass and abort Instruction St law aad. prophet of that allly att'
1 1 i ummi MMMMMum v aw . - a jh Hiuiiaiiaetj anatiaai Ml w
,V:M4kd't. by Ilosby'. wit., daughterot Judge Beverly Clarke, wnoja m zZwttZLSZZJZZLZ
.the euttowry order cancelled. " " Z ti. ffaslangl "as fssi I
aaarrted life pWyl concluded on Page 8 ( , .1 ,vmmmmmwwm9
North that h waa declared an outlaw, fcmw a full-flodgod lawyer at 19-in
so daaJefl the right of surrender at 1552. Thrco ycaw spent at hln parents
f d of the wr. , home pallod on him, nd be started tho
CavalnunM ...,h,4 i MAahv tn iti-ui'ilco of law In 1855. Soon there-
'he Virginia mouaUlas until General aftor ho married Miss Paulino Clarke,
The following la the Monthly News ( Instead of a sagebrush Plata 1 .looked, ,
r-etter issued for its clients by the out over what seemed to.be eae big '".
Klamath Development eoainanv for the tara d0tted here and there with faf:
coming month. It was written by E. a iS! Tl"?. 1
SIU wuo) saaAvWSaaaat UD SSaaaaaaeeabaaaBa aaaaaal
Hall, manager of the White Pelican vflr,i.i diM nt th. -- f
. .. . .. "- w. BaTaeaHBBaBBre ,
Ml
hotel and the Hotel Hail: reclamaUon service. To the
.. . . . . triotr.oth Walla Ika aa.U. is,
Nearly evanrone naa neara aome- - r . ,- w 1 1 -, ,
-w, a . ..- ... -w tinlldlnoa ahowlaa. ham. muUk. t taaV
iuuik o uur rauuren in imm - .-- - "-. . s.
country, either it Umber. Its farming rew: J yd. the amok .of aaaj.
lands, its hunting and ashing resorts. "'"'" "" " TwsrW'w
or IU Crater Lake. But after Wl,taal'WP'W$
wonder if those who have not been ; "" """ aw".,am, e wmtm
.i...iu .nta v. .. Ui. onment of the nmnira Tnlhaaailai
lifUSVX NUSU WU IW HUVUI IVllJJI - '
- 1
know what we have done la the last
few year.
L.lvi,.'.L
." sa:,BaiBVi m
nmnlng in lone tanxenU.-tbaVblsM. aw
the Southern Pacllc a U .eataereagfj; v
s- f r. .. mu ..,..!.. '" Biarabea of the Lower
along th. bale of siuM Wml?.:-
f:inw . Mv f n.ti aw. .M-iwe " w woaingac a
of th mountain, and after som good
progresa.
O
shooting turned to come dowa, 'aad'
a. law vum aa. nain.a. Mm mam . a.'.-
.v.. . mmv at lain, w aaajaj. ayi,i
VWMM .. W ATC1 WIIBl MW ' -. i,: '.. " . ' -. n.- f
i.j .u j.j..i .icKoanng. popuiauoa, were..,wnsaa .em .i
. ..,. . ui f ,.WJ-i1J Alt a-ai-iiUti. .rmLML
rama before me.
u nwinuH rw rellmedaiid dltflh -"-.--'-" .-...-. m-i
To the north the . ,k . IZ-ZLa'TST.V
town of Klamath Fall, ttmltrr
BERLIN, May . It ia oaetally an
nounced that the Oermans have won
fresh victories aloag both banks of the
Meiise, Oa the west baak of'tae river
thy captured Freneh poalUoaa ia Ca
ailerea aad CorbMux wood, lavriaea
iagi.l4tee, Oa th aat baak they
advaaoed la' Talaaseat forest
Allen VMta.
A. O. Ajias ia ever treat
.1 Ant. Vl..k . WUU. .-'
against th hills; just toyoad. th Ua- 7i7iMtrigs
Mgebrush plala. dotted here and therel' , &!
with a settler's eaMa; farther to the XaEE J!H ZTlTT
.. tv. vi..tv .. hi.. . .nU'ii'"ev"-', iW siaaBPRt apa saaaas).
TSZflJSZ! Jtttrvs st. iw3i
faVWSJB WJSHmS WSjBajT tvej Vwwjbbsbc gA AfaA Mdaaj ejaMgaab sBBakBSBteaaBaexgBBBW aueaaaaBBW'
asaaa vn vauavaa AviaiB aaawavuavavi m ..ammrmM r - .,
." .. "." -r . - . TT:aeaL walla iath laaaa kdaatea asa 1
wita ite "' mi aerea or - -- - --, i. , 7 fw ..tt-
It waa a beautiful picture of aa uaeo-' 5Jff iS22?2li2SS5
vleped eaaaira.
Last fall 1 waa hunting again at' the
bae of 8tukl Mountaln, aad agala
followed a covy of aaail to the esse
of the aaate eaayoa. At tM toe ef tae.
rids 1 taraei te oek aaaia at tse'm.
tare gassrs SM. 4US what a oaaiewi
who are ralaiag aasreda af
of riila and ilvsstsak Ssr the
of the Pa4S'OeaaL- v.
nv e as tTsaatWi Mg
iKSMBt, v-teeay.., tt
i V,4l
-l 'HeA.slvif-j. ii
lyf tmtfr
,.-v -j.. - .
