First
Maui County Fair!
Nov. 30, Dec.l and . 2
Boost The
Maui County Fair
VOLUME XXIII.
WAILUKU, MAUI, T. II., APRIL 28, 1916.
NUMBER 10
No Fraud At Hana
Declares Raymond
Men Voted By Proxy Were Honestly
Voted Will Go To Convention With
Case if Necessary Paia a Raw Deal
That the liana election wag Irregul
ar, but no fraud, ia the admission and
contention of Dr. J. II. Raymond, the
Buccessful candidate as deleRato from
Maui to the democratic national con
vention. Dr. Raymond states that it
is a fact that 35 votes were cast by
proxy at liana, which is against the
party rules, and he has a certified list
of the names of the persons whose
names were thus voted. There is no
question, he declares, that the proxies
were voted In accordance to the
wishes of the persons giving them.
The same democrats had previously
signed the petition for his nomination,
in almost every case, is also declar
ed. On the other hand Dr. Raymond
asserts that the 41 ballots cast at
Paia were irregular in that there is no
record of any precinct club existing
there, nor of any election being held
there. The returns from I'aia how
ever, showed 41 to 0 in favor of al
most all of the McCandless faction
candidates.
The democratic territorial central
committee, according to reports from
Honolulu, will Investigate the alleged
irregularities in the Maui voting. Dr.
Raymond says that such investigation
cannot unseat him, and that the local
county committee must grant him a
certificate of election. In any event
Dr. Raymond will be present at the
St. Louis convention prepared to
make his fight before the
national committee on credentials,
should it be necessary. He expects to
leave for the coast next week, where
he will join his family and make a
several months tour of the eastern
states before returning home.
Live Stock Will Be
Big Feature Of Fair
Much Interest In High Bred Animals
On Maui Presages Fine Exhibits
Other Islands May Compete
The live stock exhibit at the Maui
County Fair, next Fall is going to
be one of the surprises of the big
event except to those who have been
closely in touch with what has been
going on in this line on Maul for the
past several years. In the beef cattle
class it is quite certain that all of the
principal ranches of Maui will have
some fine specimens to show, because
there has been some big improve
ments in this class of cattle in the
past few years. Paul Isenberg, of
Honolulu has also indicated his in
tention of bringing some nf his high
grade bulls over for competition, and
it is possible that other island breed
ers will also be represented. In the
dairy cattle line it is also probable
that a good showing will be made.
James Lindsay, of Haiku, Dr. J. C.
Fitzgerald, and Harold Rice, all have
some superior animals of this type to
show.
Hogs will also be a feature. D. T.
Fleming, of the Houolua ranch has a
fine berkshire boar or two, while Dr.
W. D. Baldwin and Harold Rice, are
enthusiasts over their Hampshires.
Sam Baldwin also has some fine Duroc
Jerseys which may be shown.
Horses will doubtless f0rm an in
teresting class. L. von Tempsky has
has some fine colts, and half a dozen
other ranches, which have been speci
alizing in horse breeding will probably
have entries worth looking at.
The recently organzied poultry as
sociation is also planning to Bh()w
what Maul can do in the way of fine
fowls.
Fight In Court Begun
For Japanese Child
Application for writ of habeas corp
us was filed in the second circuit
court last week by Yataro Hashimoto
with view of recovering possession of
Matsuyo Hashimoto, a minor female
child of the petitioner, now in the
custody of Geuosuke Okamotu, of Ho
nolulu. The petition alleges that the
girl is being illegally held by the Ho
nolulu man, and is being trained as a
geisha dancer with a view to his profit.
It is understood that the defendant
claims that the child was legally
adopted, and that the father therefore
has no just claim to her.
In the court yesterday morning, a
motion of the defendant, through his
attorney Eugene Murphy, for $35 as
traveling and transportation costs to
enable him to attend the hearing, was
allowed by Judge Edings. The plaint
iff in the case is represented by At
torney E. R. Bevins.
Maui Horses To Be
Feature Of Meet
Denervo To Brush With Welcome Boy
Once More Frank Bajdwin To
Enter Pony Dandy
That Maul is to play an important
part in the race meet to be held in
Honolulu on Kamehameha Day is in
dicated from reports coming up from
the metropolis. The meet is to cover
two days, Saturday, June 10, and Mon
day, June 12. The Advertiser has the
following to say as to what is expect
ed of Maui horsemen in the event:
The races for Hawaiian-bred, Japanese-owned
horses are attracting
much attention among Japanese, both
here and on Maui, and the gray mare
which won the Japanese race at.
Spreckels Park on New Year's Day,
will be sent to Honolulu for the com
ing meeting, and will number among
her opponents a couple of smart
Warning colts from Waialua.
That Frank Baldwin is interesting
himself in the coming meet is evi
denced by the fact that he intends en
tering his fast pony Dandy in the polo
pony race. Dandy will, in all pro
bability be ridden by Sam Baldwin.
Dandy is by Royal F.
It is doubtful if the 2:15 class har
ness race will be placed on the pro
gram, as the only entry in sight at
present is John T. Silva's Harold D.
Word comes from Maui that Maui
Boy will not be entered and Luke
Rogers is said to have changed his
mind about entering his bay pacer.
A wireless has been received from
Maul that Denervo will be entered in
the free-for-all harness race. Angus
McPhee, owner of the Maui crack, has
been appealing for half-mile heats, or
if mile heats, only two in three, in
stead of three in five. The association
refused to acquiesce and now McPhee
declares that he will race his horse
here next June, whether or no.
Denervo vs. Welcome Boy
Denervo and Weloome Boy have
met six times In local tracks, twice
at Kapiolani park and four times at
Spreckels park, Kahului. Denervo
has won four races and the Hollinger
pacer two. In July, 1914, Welr-ome
Boy defeated Denervo In the Maui
free-for-all, after the McPhee horse
had stepped a sensational first heat
in 2:12. Last July Denervo turned
the tables on his conquerer at Kahu
lui but on New Year's Day, on the
same track, Welcome Boy easily de
feated the son of Demonio.
McPhee, by the way, would appear
to be branching out In the racing
game, for report has it that he has
purchased three runners on the Coast,
which will arrive by the next boat
and which will be entered at the
coming meeting.
Opening Of Series
Set Forjay 14th
Three Teams Will Make Up league
Athletic Association Makes Final
Arrangements
The opening game of the Maui
baseball season will be played on the
Wailuku grounds on Sunday, May 14,
The game will be between the new
1st Battalion, N. G. H. team and the
Paia team, present holder of the fa
mous Raymond Cup.
At the meeting of the Maui Athletic
Association last Tuesday night, the
Puunene team, under management of
M. G. Paschoal, made its formal entry,
and the entries were declared closed.
This makes it again a three-team
league, since Lahaina was apparently
not able to get up steam enough to
get in this year, as had been hoped.
The association fixed the dates of the
first three games of the series, and
the others will follow in the same
sequence. Following the game be
tween the National Guard and Paia, on
May 14, the 1st Battalion will meet
Puunene on the 21st, and Paia and
Puunene will play on the 28th.
At Tuesday evening's meeting, G.
R, Cummlngs was made grounds man
ager for the season, and Manuel Ol
mos was elected official umpire. The
handling of the gates is to be under
a new plan, this season, each team
manager to be put In charge for one
month. It is believed that the rivalry
between the managers to keep ex
penses down and boost receipts will
be watched with intef'st., George
Cummings takes the first try under
the new plan.
STABLE MANURE VALUABLE
Estimates of the value of stable ma
nure on the farm indicate that in
eastern Pennsylvania the manure pro
duced by one adult horse or cow nets
the farmer on an averace tiR.RO nor
year, while in southern Michigan the
manure or one such animal nets the
farmer $8.22.
Deputy Suspended
On Serious Charge
Sheriff Crowcll Trying to Locate Jap
anese Witness Who Has Disappear
ed Fcrreira Says Its a Frame-up
As a result of informal charges
preferred against Deputy Sheriff
John Fcrreira, of Wailuku, County
Sheriff Clem Crowell has suspended
the officer, pending what he says is
to be a full investigation of the mat
ter. The complaint which has been
lodged with the Sheriff is that Fcr
reira retained some ?10 or $15 taken
from a Japanese prisoner named Enzo,
who was recently released from cust
ody after serving several months for
larceny. After complaining about the
loss of his money, the Japanese has
disappeared, and is believed he is
now on Hawaii. An effort is to be
made to locate him and bring him
back.
William Keanu, a plantation officer
from Camp 1, it is said has confessed
full knowledge of the facts in Hie
case, and to have accepted a part of
the money withheld from Enzo. Fcr
reira denies any wrong-doing in the
matter, declaring the case a frame up
against hjm. He has produced a
receipt which he claims fully covers
the money claimed to have been il
legally taken.
Harold W. Rice Buys
The Ferreira Ranch
Pays $41,000 at Public Sale For Valu
able Makawao Property Place
Will Probably Be Highly Dev eloped
The sale of the ranch lands In Ma
kawao, of John Ferreira estate, was
yesterday approved by Judge Edings
in the second circuit court. The
property was sold v at auction last
Saturday morning, on order of the
court, to Harold W. Rice at his bid of
$41,000. There were no other bidders,
although it had been expected that a
small hui of Portuguese residents of
Makawao would try to secure the
property.
The ranch consists of some 1000
acres of land, and the upset price was
fixed at $40,000. The price paid does
not include live stock now upon' the
property. The trustee, W. T. Robin
son was authorized to sell the prop
erty for the reasons that for some
time it has not been paying a fair
return on its valuation. .. The sum re
alized, which is generally considered
a very fair one, is to be reinvested
for the benefit of the estate by ap
proval of the court.
It is understood that Mr. Rice, who
already owns a considerable acreage
of land in Makawao, expects to devel
ope the properly by the introduction of
high grade live stock, for which it is
well adapted.
Heavy Rains Help
Farming Interests
The heavy rains which have fallen
almost all over Maui for the past two
days, have eome nt a mnst ,wmnri unr
time, and have been of immense value
10 me plantations in particular. The
central Maul plantations, which have
been Bhort of water for the past few
weeks, have received a throrotigh
drenching, and relievoil iw mimi.e
During the past week it had been
necessary to turn irrigation water
UDOn the mature enno In bnnn If fmn
drying up before it could be harvested.
ine ram, oy releasing a large number
of men from irrigation work, has made
possible the pushing of new plantings,
wnicn nave been somewhat behind.
Reports from the Ma KflU'nn nun
Haiku districts and Kula indicate that
me rain Has been or much benefit to
the farmers in those sections.
The rainfall at Wailuku on Thnra-
day totaled 4.19 inches, according to
ineomciai record kept by Brother
Frank.
TRUSTEE APPOINTED TO HANDLT
ACCIDENT BOARD AWARD
Judge Edings yesterday granted an
application of the industrial accident
board for the county of Maui for the
appointment of trustee to administer
the sum of $1500 to be paid by he
Wailuku Sugar Company for the be
nefit of the widow and children of
Manuel Nuneg Vierira. John Vascon
cellos was appointed such trustee,
with boud fixed at $1500. The money
is to be paid as compensation for the
death of Vierira, a water tender of
the sugar company, who was killed
some months ago when a rock rolled
down from the mountain while he was
at work, crushing his Bkull.
Kalama Has War
Shock Off Molokai
Almost Bumps Submarine, But Is Re
lieved When Crew Laughs Dis
concerting Experience He Says
Almost ramming a submarine,
which appeared suddenly from le
neath the waves and directly in hfcs
course but a few lengths ahead, was
the exciting experience of Chairman
Sam Kalama, of the Hoard of Super
visors, while on his way to Molokai
yesterday morning. Mr. Kalama, was
making the trip in Dave Fleming's
sampan from the Honohia ranch, ac
cf)mpanied by a Japanese boatman
A heavy rain was falling, and a chop
py sea was running. Suddenly the
gray body of the submarine appeared
dead ahead to the intense astonish
ment of Kalama and his crew, who at
first took it to lie a whale.
Sam says that for a little bit he
thought he was in the war zone, and
that his sampan was a neutral merch
antman. Then the hull of the sub
marine opened, and the crew of real
American bluejackets came out and
gave him the laugh, which dispelled
his illusi0n.
Another submarine also made its
appearance. They proved to be two of
the K class under-sea fighters from
Pearl Harbor, which were out on a
practice cruise. Kalama returned to
Wailuku this morning.
High Freight Rates
Boost Lumber Prices
Freight Charters Year Ago $5.50 Are
Now $15 or $16 Price of Lum
ber Lowest on Maui
A 200 per cent advance in the
freight rates for lumber from the
Puget Sound ports together with a
general advance in the price of this
article at the mills, accounts for the
recent sharp advances noted in the
Islands in the past few months. And
the end is not yet. Merchantable
Nor'west lumber which six months
ago sold in Kahului at about $25 per
thousand, is now listed at $28.50; and
the same lumber in Honolulu is sell
ing at $32.50. The Star-Iiulletin, after
investigating the situation has the fol
lowing to say on the subject:
"At present charter rates for lumber
schooners, Honolulu lumber firms not
owning vessels are losing money
when they sell Douglas fir at $32.00 a
thousand feet.
"This condition, it was learned to
day, has resulted from the scarcity of
bottoms for lumber from the North
west to this port. At this time last
year charter rates were $5.50 a thous
and feet. They are now between $15
ana Jfiti.
last month the retail price of
Douglas lir was raised from $30 to
$32.50 by the City Mill Company, one
of the largest of the local lumber firms
not owning lumber bottoms. This
variety of lumber had been selling at
$30 for the last year or two.
Island Electric Bill
Now Up To President
The Island Electric Company's
franchise extension bill passed the
United States senate on Tuesday, ac
cording to the cable piessage received
by Delegate Kalanianaole from Jack
K. Desha, his private secretary in
Washington.
The bill was introduced in the house
of representatives by Delegate Kubio.
It will now go to the President for his
approval and signature.
I'nder the terms of the measure the
Wailuku electric company is given au
thority to extend its lighting and
power system into the adjoining dist
rict of Makawao.
Jr i
ELKS' SMOKER WAS
PLEASANT AFFAIR
The smoker given last Saturday
evening, at the C .D. I.ufkin beach
place by the Maui Elks, as a farewell
to F. W. Jennings, who leaves in a
few weeks f,,r Klamath Falls, Oregon,
was a most pleasant affair. The even
ing was spent wilh games and music,
a number of cabaret numbers being
rendered by two vaudeville singers
who had been appearing at the local
playhouses.
liesides the guest of honor there
were present I). F. l!aleh, E. Ii. Iiev
ins, Jack Pergstrom, Thomas Dunn,
C. D. I.ufkin, F. C. I.ocey, Will. J.
Cooper, E. J. Walker, F. T. Kanlom,
F. P. Rosecrans, C. Hansen, 1. T.
Carey, Dan Quill, Leon T,,bringer. W.
Seailiy, Harry Gesner, and Hugh
Howell.
REVOLT IN IRELAND
BRINGS MARTIAL LAW
Censorship Blocks News German-American Crisis
StillActue Mexicans Assert Ability To Handle
Villa Laborers To Get More Money
HONOLULU, April 28 Police officer, Fred Wright injured
Wednesday night when liis motorcycle collided with mail carrier's
automobile. Little hope of his recovery. Skull is badly fractured, and
operation does little to releave Lis vondition.
Japanese editors pleased with action taken hy planters' association.
Announcement that wages will be raised pleases laborers.
Kapaa homesteads will get railroad after long delay. Hans Isen
berg, on behalf of the Lihue plantation, agrees to the Governor's condi
tions. Unless history repeats itself, Kauai pilikia is over.
LONDON, April 28 Irish revolt breeding, and martial law pre
vails. Rebellion hatched in Dublin sweeps westward and southward
but premier Asquith announces government is in control. Censorship
closes all avenues of information. Unionist and Nationalist leaders in
commons denounce the dissatisfaction, vhile troops are being rushed to
meet situation.
WASHINGTON, April 28 Secretary Lansing announced yester
day that information supplied to British government by the LTnitcd
Stales was instrumental in capture of Roger Casement and the block
ing of his plans to land arms in Ireland.
LONDON, April 28 Germans pave way for another drive in
Verdun sector. Terrific attacks by Teutons against other western
fronts all repulsed by French. Curtain of lire is deadly to enemy.
On eastern front Russians repulsed Germans and Grand Duke
Nicholaus continues to advance.
WASHINGTON, April 2S General Obregon declares that Car
ranzislas can master Villa bandits. Is confident that he can convince
General Scott of his government's power. Denies friction exists with
General Carranza. General Scott and Obregon will probably confer in
the Juarez customhouse tomorrow.
Ray of hope again shows in submarine controversy. Ambassador
Gerard goes to front to confer with Emperor Wilhelm, presumably in
resiMinse to kaiser's invitation. Influential German papers discuss
crisis. One says unscrupulous use of submarines is not desirable, and
another says alll Americans are hypocrites and not neutrals.
SAN FRANCISCO, April 28- Coast guard cutter McCulloch,
with 2 sick men on board arrived yesterday. Left Thetis 2 miles from
shore. Was towing Thetis from Honolulu. The Thetis went most of
the way to the coast on her own steam.
WASHINGTON, April 28 Congress may alter immigration bill.
Protest of Japan is heeded by state department.
NEW YORK, April 28 Conrad Aufifmasser, German reservist
arrived today from Cristobal, in Canal Zone, and was placed under
arrest. Is suspected of spying on American fortifications.
LONDON, April 28 President of the local government board
would send all unmarried men from 18 to 40 to front.
LONDON, April 27 Irish rebellion breeding fast, though British
government is taking drastic measures to put it down. Martial law
proclaimed throughout Ireland. Known that fighting has taken place
since yesterday in streets of Dublin, though heavy cordon of troops
are thrown across city and more troops have been sent to patrol all
districts where there is evidence of an outbreak. Premier Asquith
announced today the rebels are holding important buildings of Dublin.
General Sir John Maxwell commander of Jiritish forces in Egypt, is
leaving today to take general charge of the situation, with plenary
powers for all Ireland, and is given sufficient authority to take any
drastic steps he may see fit.
HEREIN, April 27 United Stacs Ambassador Gerard will leave
Merlin tonight for German military headquarters where the kaiser is.
The German chancellor is expected in llerlin tomorrow from head
quarters where he held conference with kaiser, together with Admiral
von Holt.endorff and others. The Chancellor is expected to begin to
morrow work on note in reply to late demands by United .States.
WASHINGTON, April 27 Secretary Lansing today sent to the
Lritish government another demand that British realease the 37
Germans and Austrians and one Turk seized by a British cruiser from
the American steamer China, off Shanghai, two months ago. He de
clared reply to first demands not satisfactory.
President Wilson signed Kitc'ii l free sugar repeal bill this morn
ing. Measure becomes immediate! v .fi"ective.
HONOLULU, April 27 Sugar $129.20.
Judge Stuart, in the Steven case hits at "slave" labor. Jurist lakes
a series of wallops at planters' agents, the Governor, and the territorial
law. Will send a copy of his opinions to the President. Hawaiian
statute passed to protect Islands labor from raids of Alaskan packers
conies in for criticism.
BERLIN, April 27 British submarine E22 sunk by German naval
vessels. Two of crew captured.
LONDON, April 27 Loss of E22 coneeeded by British govern
ment. Norwegian bark Carmanian destroyed by gun fire of German
submarine. Chased bark and sank her with shells.
HONOLULU, April 27 Planters will increase wages of all
workers in near future. They believe profits now being made through
high prices received for sugar should be shared by laborers fairly.
Plan being worked out along equitable lines.
Military spirit in Hawaii makes good impression. Major Michael
Lenihan of 2nd Infantry tells Ad Club of National Guard needs. Con
firms report of increase of regular army here, to strength of a complete
division.
CHICAGO, April 27 Duke Kahanamoku defeated Perry Encigc
ry, last night at 50yard dash, time 20:05.
HONOLULU, April 27 Duke writes to island friends, too much
traveling makes it impossible to get into training thus accounting for
loss of so many races.
W ASHINGTON, April 27 Relation between United States and
Germany near breaking point. Reports from Vienna say Teutonic
papers make gloomy comments. Washington insists that merchant
men shall have right to be armed for their own defense and that no
ship shall be attacked until fully
has not given up hope that some honorable way mav be found to avert
breaking diplomatic relations.
(Continued on
warned of intention. President
Page Five.)
9
