THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Overcast to-tMfe -fair to-morrow, with
rising temperature; light winds.
IT SHINES FOK ALL
Highest temperaMKM jresteilay, 46; lowest, 41.
Detailed
1roJTIne
Ine reports on pa go 1 3,
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 241.
NEW YORK, FRIDAY, APRIL 28, 1916. Copyright, IDlfi, by tlio Pun Printing and Publishing Association
RICE TWO CENTS.
08RE60N WILL
INSIST TROOPS
LEAVEMEXICO
CaiTiUizu Forces Able to
I'npc With Villistas Now,
He AVill Say.
St'UTT AND FUXSTOX
OX WAY TO BORDER
AVill Not Ajrree to With
draw To Demand
Cooperation.
WiilllNOTOV. April
re.cive.l here to-nlnht
toll I'.lfJC'l Hll'OUgll
ifternoon on his. way
27. Word ws
that Gen. Obre
Chihuahua this
to the border to
confer with Gen. Scott and Gen. Fun
ton. Pbrcgon, who was accompanied
by Gen. Trcvlno, la reported as saying:
' t am going to Juarez to convince
the American representatives that our
rmy In more than amply sutllclent to
control the email groups of Villa ban
dits, which are still nt large and out
i!de the law.
"I hope to arrange the prompt re
tirement of the American troops Into
their own country."
(Jen. Obregon left Chihuahua for
Ju.irez on his special train at 10 o'clock
to-night, the despatch said.
lien. Ohrcgon lsued an
denl.il of border re,K.rts of a breach be-,
t.een himself nnd Gen. Carranza. ,
"Ti!" s merely a revival of previous
Imaginations Invented by persons Inter-'
e.ted ,n fomenting discord In Contltu-j
tionallst ranks." he said. "Thcic Is no,
occasion for discord, and we are now 1
tc y busy working for the upbuilding of 1
Mexico."
...nfcrri.ee on MMnrtl.; .
Fiom present Indications the confer-,
tve between Gen. Scott and (Jen. Obre- .
-t11 tpA t.1.inA mtnrA itnr.li v I
"III III I'lnvc ' x, . t u
The meeting will take ilacc cither at Kl
I
Paso or Juarez.
Consul Sllllman. at Snltlllo. reported
ti Ihe State Department to-d.iy that I
I'hregon passed through there on Tues
day and left Torrcon for Jueircz last
right, going by way of Chlhuahun, bav
ins changed his Intention ot going to
P.edras Negras.
Secretary Maker, being Informed of the
c .items of the Sllllman despatch, wired ,
Gen. Scott and Funston to leave for
Kl P.iso at once. They are due to reuch '
there to-morrow ofternooti or evening. 1
1- was positively stated nt the State I
Department this afternoon that noncpre-.
etit.itne of that Department will be pres
i t at the Interview, it being the Inten-
i i as far as possible to contlne the con-j
Scnncc strictly to military matters. Any
j luim.ttle questions tlmt may arise will
hac i .ie referred back to Washing-1
Ion b Gen. Scott.
1 alls .New term L'nfll.
!....... I.n . .n 1 ...1.1. ,1.. I
vjv.. . m. ........ ....j )
tV .. 1........ ... . .. .,nmnlnln, I I
.. u 1 'V'.ll llllvllW .1 C.II..I.H luilll'lut...
n-.un.-t the first of the new aeroplanes
P'J: hased by the Department for use In
Mv n. I The hllfll point of danger Is sjid to
The first Instalment of machines, con- have been passed two days ago when the
-ting of four Curtlss biplanes of JO I'nrelgn Olllce received Information e.
r.urse-power each, are, according to Oen. spectlng the nttltude. of President WIN
Funston, of the exact type of the eight f son.
or'iiUnes which accompanied the expe- Ojilnlon differs as to whether chief credit
iht'.oii into Mexico. All these eight have rests with Ambassador flei aril or Ambas
broken down owing to the fact that their ador von Hernstorff. The latter unques.
horse-power Is Insufficient for the altl- tiouably ha.s played an Important pint,
tutle at which tho machines have tj since It Is gen tally understood he had n
'I'erate. rather free hand In handling the nego-
l!ep!lng to the complaint. Secretary j tlatlons.
Ea'Ker before leaving Washington this Although matters have not reached a
ftemoon for New York Informed Clen. complete settlement there Is a felin
Kunston that while tho Department was . nf confidence here that Count von Hern
snare at the time that these four new ntnrff will lie equal to the present situ
machines were of the same horse. powcrl nllon. plnce he has handled successfully
the old, they were the only ones avail- earlier negotiations.
n.e for Immediate delivery.
lie added, however, that four addl-l .Insmr Srr mini. sudor,
t.on.il Curtlss biplanes of 160 horse-. ... . , j
P"ter each arc now on the way to the' ICxteinal evidences of the changed
b rder, that the four new 160 horse- situation are manifest on all sides. The
rower Sturtevants are ready for testing "'"'"5 ntmosphcie- of a few days ago has
d that the Department has authorized! ivr" l'11"'' " " f'fllng of eager ex
t i purchase of still another lot of four! rectnncy as to what form the settle-
i-.i noj-se. power curtlss machines, so
' at .n the near future tho expedition
wil be quipped with twelve high
powered aeroplanes.
Ihpc'ts of anti-American demonstia
t.01 s 11, Durai.Eo city were discounted
't (Jcpat. lu-s tecelved to-day from Con
ul Mann i nt that place. Although tho
CoriMj' stated that conditions there had
...id nnd thnt theie was still a
.1 tv of food he made no mention of
1 cm t hty toward Ameilcans. At
-e 1. he repotted, the situation Is im
j' 'Ac 1, tie,,. Travlno having taken efftct-
It'l 1 ilirge
I 1 report to the War Department to
"'' 'ien. I'unsion gave a coriected list
'' 1 -hrc-e woundeii American soldiers
i the Uitlle between Dodd's delude
I"!'" l and Viliistas at Tomachlc as fol
low I' "nis Henry. William 1". Malhlas
1 Ie 1 s 0.1,11k. quartermaster ser-
"i f ,,,, 1It seventh Cavalry.
'I ) Onler Itealored.
'r Mevican Ihnbatsy gave out this
t.'elllc-llt '
'''- " Arredondo, Ambassador Desig
"He of tli. Ilepubllo f Mexico, Is In re
"f a cablegram from Ihe Federal
''1'1','i announcing that on .May 1 the
, money oruer system will be ra-
"rnl n innirterH of Mexico Also
It
iinnoiiiiced that all postal monuy
r ttMnsactloiiN will he 1
fird
lerfeltihle Conslltutlonullst paper cur
rency, whiei, ipBue Is already entering
h 10 eirculallon,
iv i.overnmeiit decree nrm-lillnir fne
the
flee Irnnortntioii of vaynle,. una
I'ther productH of petroleum baa been
iwueil, l.tnder ItH teriiis tho gasoleno
inn other productH will pay no duties up
1 Ju,y Tlio occasion for this decree
I to leiievi- consumers of the present
'"Ji burden when ohlnlnlng tfasolene A
nllv priKluct la Impossible) In certain
Mel Ion,! (,f t,e country.
'Tile ?lllCinri..it,.n. U.... n
..... ....... inn ninic 111 ecu.
'"it" bus notified nil CohhuIm lo Klvo
''";' I" thn commercial and Industrial
""fiu unit
11... wii.i. iu
I'htciy paeltled and ample protection h
"w a.-surnl 10 all who dealrc to engugc
mining or other Indiitiliiul enterprise
"It In also ofilclally announced hut
""re Is at prceout on hand In storm
warehouses of tho FederMl Llslrlct
tons of coin. Thin uitnouiiccniuiil
Continued un Fourth ,1'vic.
GERARD GOES TO SEE KAISER ON
SUBMARINE ISSUE; IT IS NOW HOPED
REPLY TO U. S. WILL AVERT BREAK
Emperor Seeks Light
Wilson Demand. Is
Ilerlin Report.
on
AFTER 10 HOUR TRIP
AXSWER IS EXPECTED
Submarine Commanders
Meanwhile 31 ay Re Or
dered to Cejise Attacks.
Mti'.i.iN, via Amsterdam, ApiH
Ambassador, Gerard left to-night for
General Army Headquarters to confer
with the Kalstr on the submarine ques
tion. Germany's reply to President Wilson's
V boat 'ultimatum" It expected to be
framed Immediately upon the rturn to
Herlln to-morrow of the Imperial Chan
cellor. Dr. von Ilcthmatin-Hollwcg. win
together with the chief of the German
naval staff. Admiral von ltoltzendorf.
has had extended conferences with the
Emperor at army headquarters.
Just when the reply will be despatched
to Washington Is not yet decided. A
good dtal still depends upon the outcome
of the conference between the American
Ambassador nnd the Emperor. The Jour
ncy to army headquarters takes twenty
Hours each way. The- sending of the.
' note thcrefiii huv it.. iiatm-A.) i..n .i..
beKmnnB of nM
,
, ... ,. . ' , , , 1
J ? Hie feeling Is that the danger of a
brfnk l,h ,1,c 1 niXt ""
"
i w commei.i nas become mote and
mure optimistic In the last few days, and
even the extreme radical organs con
ceded to-day that a settlement of the
submarine controversy satlsfactoiy to
Lot ti Governments Is possible without
luhi ot 1onol. or dlsnlly to 0erlliany.
I GERARD WINS CREDIT.
submarine
I'rUU Mali!
lo
He
rrd, lerv In lirrniaiiv .
lly C AIll. W. Al KERM t.N,
lltHi.iN, via Amsterdam, April 27.
The crisis In the German-American situ
ation growing out of thv submarine con-
lllilr... t Ir-tii.lll' m.ss.l r!.rrt I
'
Will be no break of diplomatic relations .
predicated m liny devedopments to
date. This statement Is made to-day
on most excellent authority
IVnding nesotlatlotis for a more com
plete underst mdlng Herman submailnei
ccnntnatnlets. wid be under certain ex-
Illicit Instructions fiom the Admlialty.
What these Instructions will be. I not
known. They will be of such nature,
however, as to furnish assurance that '
theie will be no repetition of the acts
UIIU'I.IMI1I1 l"i III 1IIV 1 1. 11. .1 .'IttH -IIV
o nl. 11.. .. r 1... .1.. I'n I.. U.'llnd ,.1.11...
r.egotlatloius aie In progress.
fiernrd lilvrn Cre.lll.
ment win time.
Delay due in awaiting a teplv from
Ambassador von fternstorff will post
pone the sending of a formal reply to
Washington for several duys.
Foreign Secretary von Jngow called
at the American Kmb.i.sy this morning,
but Ambassador Herard was engaged at
the moment and could not receive him.
A conference was to be arranged later In
tin day.
Copyright, lis. by the Called Press
LANSING HAS NO NEWS.
Coanler Proposal on I' Mont Cani
palRii la Aiitlclpated.
Wasminuton April J7. Secretary
Lansing had no direct news to-day from
Ambassador Herard at Uerlln concerning
Herniany's reply to the American note
nnd no Intimation as. to when the leply
will be made.
However, the fact that the American
Ambassador had left for the German
army headquarters to confer with the
Kaiser was taken as an Indication that a
solution of tho International problem Is.
If not Immediately In sight, at least to be
lioiwd for.
President Wilson's note demanding
tlmt (lei many "Immediately declare and
effect an abandonment of present meth
ods of submarine wnrfnrc." Is now Inter
preted In Uerlln to mean "an earnest
desire on the part of the United States
to hnvfl Uerlln propose an acceptable
basis for futurei nubmnrlne operations."
This Uerlln Is endeavoring to do, nnd It
In understood the delay in Ihe leply lii
due to this.
The fact that negotiations are now
proceeding on this basis hn led to
optimistic feeling In certain circled here,
which la further accentuated by I ho
continued lull In U boat activities In the
war zone.
llanKPr Over, Ilernstorn VIpit.
Count von ncriiHioni, ine licinian
I Ambassador, regards the danger mark
practically pas.'ed as far as a threatened
' broach I" diplomatic, relations Inline
1 cerneil. Their- 11 no Inilicathm Hint
either I'lculdenl Wilson or Secretary
1 Lansing idiiii" this view, but It In freely
.Piedlcltd Hint no definite action muy be
CcnHniird en Third J'agt.
CALLS PLEAS TO CONGRESS
PRO-GERMAN PROPAGANDA
Senator Husting Denounces Peace Messages and Saysi
National Legislators Who Would Be Influenced !,t,"lli,,'
by Them Are "White Livered." 1
Wash I- s. Apill 17. Senator
Husting of Wisconsin, a Democrat, In a
speech In the Senate unfolded to-day
what he conceived to bo a pto-llerman
piopaganda behind the sending to the
Senate of thousands of telegram urging
that the country be kept out of war with
lierniany and generally expressing sym
pathy ulth the Herman side of the U
beat coiitroveiss
Senator Husting lived the responsi
bility for the propaganda upon the
"American embargo conferenci" In Chi
cago. He exhibited a letter sent out by
the conference urging that the tele
grams be sent and directing tl.at bills
for the expense be forwarded to tlio or
ganization in Chicago and that they
would be paid. The letterhead of the
conference. Introduced by Senator Hus
ting, gaio the following as the olllcers;
Col. Jasper Tucker Darling, president
nnd chairman of the executive commit
tee: W. It. McDonald, general manager:
J. 11. Forrest, secietary; C. 11. Jalmer
Lundqulst. assistant secretary, and Will
iam D. Talk, trenmnr.
McDonald and Korret ale newspaper
men who formerly worked In Washing
ton. Senator Husting was severe on
the organization, which he said was
working In a way calculated to emhar
lass the 1'resbhnt in the International
negotiations.
lnolve Vnn liirl.
The Senator charge,! that Wolf von
igel was back of the propaganda and'
that Von Igel's private papers now In I
the custody of toe Oovornmuit would!
prove thit he was Inspiring or aiding
the propaganda
Senator Husting tin eatened , estcrday
that be would In'lo.luce a resolut.oti to
investigate
the activities of the nrona-
gandlsts, but after a confenuce to-dav
with the rostmaster-Heiural and the j
otttcers of the Depaitment o' Justice he
was coiivluc.il thai the Investigation
now under way by the Hov eminent de
pal tments would bring letter results.
Thousands of telegram have pouu-d
Into the Senate In the last few davs. all
coming irom Mines III easy access
01 1
Chicago and following In
iexi one or)
jour lorms. ins expense t.r -the tete.
" ine leie -
grams Mas neen estunaleil at probably I
nnl tew ttiiti to ftnrt i
I
Vll'e or tie letters s(,t out In- tlie
Auiei icaii embargo coufcren. e fouuil Its
way Into the hands of Senator Husting
and he read it to.ib.e into the iceuid as
follows
Apr.l Jl. l?fi
DkI! Sir Keeling cotitldeiit that iis
cme of the patriotic citizens of the
Culled States ou are anxious to see
this country held out of the present
terrible war in Hurope, we me making
this extraordinai.v nppeal to ou be.
cause we know- from the most post
the Information that is possible to be
nhtnlinsd at this tune that tin- situa
tion warrants It
We cannot find words strong enough
to tell oii of the gravity of the situa
tion and we assure 5011 In the most
cainest manner possible that the only
way in which this eomitrv can keep
from becoming involved Is an tniincdl
ale and great expression of the tea I
sentiment of the people of the country
who want peace.
I'eleLcraplile vmicnls Trued.
We also must solemnly assure you
that It Is too late to mail an expression
of this sentiment to Washington. It
must be telegraphed We have pre.
pared night letter telegrams that am
ready to be s.gneil by tho voteis. At
the top of tin ye shuts we nsked that
sou hold these sheets until we glvfl
you notice to telegraph them Now
we ask that you have the night letters
signed us rapidly as possible and that
ou send tli.-m from the telegraph
otliies without 1 moment s delay.
Don't wait for any further word
from us Conditions ,lu now even
more serious and the messages should
be sent at once Tliej should all be
In Washington by Wednesday
We beg tlmt joii wid realize how
grave we consider the situation 10 bo
when we assure oti that we nie In
pay for all of the messages. All that
we Ulge you to do Is to get the tele,
grams signed and send th. 111 at once.
Then send the bills to us and a check
will be mulled to you Immediately.
We know what ou have done in the
past to help keip this country In a
neutral position and wo know that nt
this, the most ciltical time In the
diplomatic in gotliitlons, you will not '
fall to act for us,
Only believe that our llifiiliiialinii Is
of the best and send tlio telegrams
now. Please let us depend upon, you
In this crisis,
Thanking you for what we know
you will do and repenting the assur
ance that we will pay for all expenses
Incurred, we beg to remain.
Most earnestly jours,
Tub Amkiiica.v Hmii.wicjo CoN t.iiK.vcr.
Senators Sherman nnd Pomerene also.
Hpoke In condemnation of the propn-.
ganda. Senator .Sherman paid the "right '
of petition" was n sacred ono and Con- j
gross recognized It, but that in thin case
it had been abused
VI r. IIiisHiik's Drlilliicliitlon.
Mr. I lusting.-who hns n laige Ge1m1.11'""0 nllVu" .n"""1"1 the m,iit!lry ,
coiiHiitucncy, was tho most severn on
the propagandists. Senators or mem
bers of the House, who would he in
fluenceil by such a propaganda, he said,
were "white livered."
"Our people, do not want war; that's:
true," said Senator Husting, "hut they
are courageous, :tnd they won't be hacked
down from 11 righteous position because
they are afraid or because of an active
minority, They are not cowurda nnd
they do not want cowardly icpreselilu
lives In Congress.
"It in high time that tho honest peo
ple who are being duped should know of 1
I... ... ..... . .. 1
uiue.i i.u.ii-n it 11.1 111 111.1 inline, or ine
Prince of Pence nre trying to stir
up dissensions it i.i discord in tltlH conn,
trv, Theso plotter have lllle.l soino of
tho people with the fear that their
rresiuent nnu congress nio trying to
had them Into war. Theiefore. I say, wo 1
faro a worse danger from thn activities
of such people than we do from n for
eign foe."
The Senator from Wisconsin denied
some amusement by rending one form
telegram In which a typographical error
had occuried In the foi'n .-t . ; out.
The senders of the telegram had faith
fully icpcuted the mistake, which urged
Congres not to "participate" a war
with (icrm.inv, the word evidently In
tended being "precipitate."
"Who pilil for these telegrams?" de
manded Senator Husting "If there Is
liny depaitmeut of the I'nltcd States
that can lnvetieate what this embargo
conference Is and who p.is It bills, not
n moment should be lost. And who
furnished them with the lnlde Infor
mation as to the dancer of liiipeiKliug
tiouble with a foreign power? In thU
note they pretend to know what tier
inauy'M leply will be How do they
l.now ""
Senator Works of California was dls
posid to treat the matter ils less seri
ous than Senator I lusting had annre-
bended, saying that it made little dllfcr-
elice who suggested the tegram sol
long as the man who sent It and assumed
the nponslhIilt for It signed hl name.
Senator Works Intimated that Mr. Hust
lug's speech was Improper 111 that it
proposed a curtailment of the right of
petition.
Senator l'omerene of Ohio went to
the defence of Senator Husting, say
ing: 'The method etnploed In this cam
paign casta a suspicion "i the man who
started it. The campaign si ems to
breathe hostility to the t'nited States.
Such 11 caue and sti h a i-ampalgn can
liecr serve the cause of tiuth ot of
peace."
Senator Sherman also defended Sena
tor Husting "The embargo cuiifervrvo
has misplaced its efforts, and the tele,
gnuus amount to an abuse of the right
of petition The telegrams sek to
menace Congrefs. not to argue with It.
I lesent them as an unworthy threat
at the Independence of the Senate."
MORE PETITIONS SENT.
' ,
' ,M,ttrr 1 - .. Ie
imlehes unlnsl n IIiiiiU.
! U .esillNGTON. ApliI I'! Tlie leni li.ud
! nient of the Senate and Hou.-e with tele
grams inspired by the American Cm.
j bargo i 'oiifereiiie continued to-dav. Tele.
giams havi' come from as far West as
j Kansas C.'y and from mie town In Kan
. sas. but tlie majority ot them have conic
. .n.in ins- e-iii;.- ii e.rriiian HipUl.lllu!l,
, sii. ii mi vvi.-....,-i 1...11... . in.. .... .
Iowa. M l n and Jlissimr In the.
middle
West, and New York. New Kngland and
ssf.n - .isrMi.
'. - vrn jersey in the i.ast.
M.,st
f tlie telegrams ate piticiied
of f nir frnw -en ,.ut be :'.e
1 11 I n
American lluihargo Confcietice in Chi
cago Sen.itois have proved this by
oinpar.ng the messages, and Senator
Husting in to-davs debate submitted
inples of each if the four forms. These
a:e the foims
Telegmin No. 1 "Vim constituents
urge and evpe, t jou to stand like a toek
against the passing freiiz.v of Insane
and criminal follv on the part or the
small portion of Inteiested persons who
aie clamoring for war Wo want peace.
Nothing warrants for anv other action."
Telegram No. 2: "UHI vmi let me
leassuro you that the great majority of
.vour constituents stand for peace, be
lieve Wiir now unnecessary and uncalled
for and will resent being p irta Ipated
meaning probably "pi rclpitated" j Into
tile Ihinqic in . .nlln t '
Telegram No " "As to., lav's re.
ports indicate that thl cmintiy is likely
to lie nehed Into the i:tiro.eaii war. lot
me assure you that I and your eon
slituents. who will be the leal sufferers,
will bitterly lesent anything but c.iliri
action, and calm at Hon means peace
continuing "
Telegram No 4 ' Oilier constituents
of yours Join with me In informing you
that we believe tlie gieat masses of 'the
people lesent being dragged into war
that we must consider untieressais We
appeal to vmi to lift your voice In
posing steps leading to war"
op.
INSULT. SAYS PAIiST.
len, senator lliiMiiiu Thai Hi
It- He
fills I. niter's. Veil
Mn.w.vt la',:, Apr'l -Another tele,
gram has be." .nl.l, ,1 to tin s(. previously
exchanged helwieti I'n. lei Slates Sena
tor Paul i Husting and Fred Pabst of
Oconomowoc. son of the wealthv brewer.
On April :i Mr Pabst and six o'ther per
sons sent a message to S.nutnr Husting
iirgp g him to do evcr thing in his power
lo k.ep t his eountrv out of the llurop. an
Senator dusting telegianbrrl
Mr. Pabst suggesting that he and the
other signers also com11111n1c.it. their .1.,.
slics to the Herman Ambassador. Mr.
Pabst telegraphed to the Senator vester-
day tho following . '
"Your telegiani of April ;i w hlch vou
caused to bo published In the press" Is
an Insult to m. 1 resent It. csneclallv
because you tefer me. a elrlen ..t . ,..
l nileil States, to n diplomatic leprescntn
live ot a rorcign Power Your answer Is
unwoithy of the high olllce ou bold No
tepiy to this tel. gram Is expected or de
lred. Fltt.p I'Aiisr."
ARNOLD WHITRIDOE HONORED
Ven Vorker llreelvcs
t'rilks lllllllioll. Stnilenl KMIe.l
i.onuon, April .7 - Second I.leut ,r
......1 tt'l.lt ..l..n.. f..l.. , , 1
ii. "mums.-, line, 11, so,, 01 1 , vv,!o. n m... ....i.i ,ii.i iin,, lear-
Whltiidge of New York, is among those I fill, unnecessary loss We have witnessed
cross. Lieut, Whltrl.lge was decorated '
for having directed the Hie of his battery
during recent hot fighting with Ihe Ger-'
man trenches only inn surds away
William Montague Nlcholls, a student
ill tho Annapolis Naval Araiiemv. win.
rc.signeii to go tn the rront with the
lliillsh aimy, was I; 1 11c .1 in action neHr
Lous in ihe 11 11 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 of l:i..
MRS. McLEAN REPORTED DYING.
II, ,. II. riinptcr President la s, Illic
it, if In Hull liniirr,
Hai.timhiii:, April 27 --Mrs. Donald
Mclean, pieshleiit of the New York city
Chapter of the Daughters of the Ameri
can Ilevolutloii, nud former presl.lent
gcnenil of the ii.itlounl body, Is reported
Hear Admiral McUnn, coiniuaniliiiit' of
uying 111 mo no, ue 01 nor nrotner-lielaw
the naval station.
oil a v islf I
Mrs. McLean came here
....... nu ..... 1 . ..:
, ,, , , , ..on nas neen in .
since that time, .III, Igo McLean, her hus. 1
- f.-. h., ui7. ' 01 nlu
... " ,
PUBLISHERS ROUSED
BY DEFENCE PLEAS
ScciTfiir.v of War's .Maiden
Speech Sfiis Patriotic Oiit
hiirst at Dinner.
KAHN OX ''111011 FINANCE"'
Fells of Ihisiness
Handicaps Williinl on j
Itailronds' Future. '
The mini "preparedness" to tin !.0"
meinbeis nnd guests of the American
Newspaper I'llblisheis Association, who
held their thirtieth annual banquet In
the gian.l balltoom of the Waldorf-A-M
toil. i Ins .......it ir. ..re, ft like
a spark of gunpowder. Anil not only
the word "preparedness," hut Its
cousins, ttittrlnt.-io nml Americanism,
caused nones that were not m the ol.i i Apr" :'"' f,t"" Hrlxlon Jail,
of small firearms but big ones , Tl" "'"' sas It is mideistood
So when Newton D Maker, rewly ap-!,l,at Slr m,,l'r " '"'litaiy uai.l,
pointed Secretary of War. rose to speak wcul'l 'he Mm- apartment In
on the urgent nee, for prepar. dne.s nd "hlch I''lv' """.an spy who
uttered that o,d at the very outSetlWJ" eXfc" '" tiw ,:irl' '",rt of Mle
there was an a.,lamat.on of enthusiastic
j lerles above the ballroom floor of the
Waldotf have seldom heard and which
niut have proved to Sectetary Haker
more plainly than anv words that any
programme of defmce he undertakes will
lecehe the Indorsement of the newspaper
publishers of the country.
Hut It was not only Secretary linker
- -who ihllveied by the way hi" maiden
speech as War Secret. irv who spoke
of preparedness and whose win ds
brought forth ringing applause Mayor
.Mlt. hel was .mother. C.ov Whitman was
another, and the drsi cousins, patriot
ism and American!"!!!, spoken by such
men as Daniel Willard. president of
the Italtlmore and Ohio Itailroad. Dr.
V K. Wellington K the Chinese Min
ister to Washington, otto II Kahn,
Charles M. Schwab. I'atil 1 Krainls
Murphy and Herbert 1. Ilrldgmaii. pres
ident of the assot .atloii, were the sig
nals for immediate outbuists of in-
doisement.
1
Tinder Hot of V iiierleiiiilmn.
Altogether the th.iMeth annual dininr
of the A. N. I'. A. was a sort of tinder
b x of Amcr. iiiis'ii It sparkled with
attirmative allusions to preparedness.
The sKMke. H lire.'l t.teil 11 Wide field of
endeavor, tun all of them at one tune or
aiiotlui gut a :ou nil to the subjeet w I I. h
manifestly was the , '.oscst t the heirts
o.' the liubllshets.
!! sides the ietkers theie were seated
at the tiMMinaster'- taide the llev W .M.
, ,.,..
' vt nor.
l'redrrick It. Martin. Kred-
erlcW tl I -n.t..,.iL-r..l n.ln..i ee-iiti.. .....
, Horace While 'P ie,.,in,-.. lir.,.u.' '
ltob. it Morris, Me'.vilb. i; Sto-ie. William
ll.rn. victor K Lavvsoii. Hopewell 1.
llogers. K m', i .Noves mil SellafT
men H llard.lig
"Pnoi to the breaking ,,iit of the war,"
said .Mr Haker, we hid concerned our
stlves foi a great many vcars with
pure!) e, onor.ih Mid industrial questions.
A nattoinv ie . eferendiim would probably
' have sle.wi. 1 ine out of ten of all out
people living in a convinced ..ptiniem as
lo the Inipnss'bllily of a world war.
' "We had uniasy questionings aUmt
1 the lee-all of Judges tlere was much
! agitation about the Inltlntiv and lefei.
endum . we w.:e quite sure that our
financial svtem incited readjustment:
we were awakening to a realization that
the sources of our nntlor.il sticiuth we-i,
being sapped by our inattention to the
depressing .rre t of modem lndust:. m
testran., d bv wise l.iwe .md regulat .ons.
Hut to these things we gave thought imiv
a. matters to which we should attend,
our prevailing state of mind was that
in America theie was a siHinlaneous. up.
ward tenilencv . that the wheel creaked
bin we got forward that we weie teach
ing our aens how to v e, larger crops,
ur f 0 lories how 10 make a larger out
put. and gradually elevating and edu-catllu-
the whole plane of out life
1 Nl elltsli vliont lllc he..
"We knew that we weie growing
and we weie not selfish about It.
, saw that our friends acrms the
rii h
We
!ea
I weie rivals in lomnierce and In Indus
try who summoned the lust In us to
competition Hut then the war came.
i.mniK away me loiimiaiinns of nil our
thinking, substituting hoiror ami dread
where cnniplaccncv had nine been.
"Wo began asking ourselves s theie
anv formication against thin disaster?
When nations have leached the very
pinnarh of human achievement, phi
losophy. Invention. Industrial organiza
tion, and In the arts mid graces of life,
are they still on the verge of this preci
pice ' When we asked It of others, we
came to ask It of ouisclv.s, and there
grew up In America when the first shock
was over and our ability lo think was
lestnrod, the question, 'Are we prepared
1 "bould our turn
fearful vortex?'
come to whirl In this
I "' ''" ""' ln,';i" ' engage In the pres.
h'1" 'llr"n,i,n Wi"'. ' mean that
qui stloiis aioe In the minds of thought-
i f"' "lf" oveiwhfie as whether
I America was prepared At first this
I 'I1"'s'1o "evolved around military pup-
' "ration in tlie narrowest sense the
number, weight and armament of our
ships, the length nf the guns of our
coast defences, the amount of ammuni
tion of various kinds In store, the num
ber of train, d men to olllcer Impromptu
armies
"Hut iis the war developed In K.urope,
we learned thAt these things are but a
pint of preparation ami a relatively use.
....e ... "P"ii
more illllleult to
'other things very much
secure; things which must be secured
long in adv.ilii f a crisis or else Is-
I.,... !... I., ,1,1.. .. I, 1. ......I I . ...
ne 1 :n.os r.un preparing as they
of Kurope preparing as they !
fought, and have come to realize that
perhaps Ihe most Important kind of pre. 1
paredness Is n kind which Is equally
'available and useful In times of peace,
and which If secured will not only
I render our military preparation more
effective but will sle-ady and strengthen
and Inspire the nation when engaged In
peat t-ful pursuits.
Threefold MoblHeallon .Needed,
"Tlitccfold mobilization s nec.sary in
any country hi war, and of these Itueo
elements, two are as valuable and as
vital In times of pence ns in times of
conflict,
"111 the llrst phue, there must be, of
course, arms nnd soldlere, s-hlpx ntl(
siillois, and these must lie modern and
(A 'CI... .... lit ...... 1 ......
K..-.,...i . .... .... ..I ...ii iiiiM itotn
'developed nnd changed A fouith and
I1HI1 nt in, a I reran ami juihtiuii lues, have
neen nnueii, '.vn 11.it mil ran with Justice 1
siioinion emb.'ittleil fiirinei't u ith ii,a
.. . . . .
nreiirms wni.n were ndequale a few ,
deciules .urn. Ileglnientnilon. rilteinii...
ItcprescntuHve Tlionius of Ken -
L,-onnnuea on liOMi fnnm. 1
IRISH REVOLT SPREADS;
MARTIAL LAW IN ISLE;
RUSH TROOPS FROM WALES
CASEMENT SET ADRIFT
BY U BOAT NEAR COAST
Was
Ordered From Germany, London Hears
Laden Vessel Stopped Twice by Patrols
-Sir Roger in the Tower.
'( (.!((, in Tur. Stv.
London, April '.'7. Sir Uoger Case-
weM
uh'tl
who was arrested last week
he wan atleinntlng to land arms
nnd ammunition from a Herman auxlllai
first!"" ""' toast of Ireland, will remain In
line lower, whither he was lemoved on
""'m """ """" x,r,"Te 'f"""-
! Loily was ariested In Klllainej on
Aptil II. when It was stated that Sir
Itoger had been arrc"teil in 'Jermany, ho
was actually n hoard a (ierm.iu submarine
In Kiel hat bor, which. In company with
a harmless looking tramp steamer of
eomparativelv small tonnage. Hying the J
Dutch colors, set out unon the vovace
which ended In West Iieland ten days
laier
"it, ( Itlfles vliiinril.
Tlie ti .itiiii was actually a Herman ves-
sel maimed by twenty picked men of trio
i ; mi. in nav) m il commanded by a
Lieutenant, with a Junior olllcer as
eiotnl in lomm.md. Its cargo was not
of the Innocent character described be '
Its fotced manifest, li.it ciiistsTe.! nt I
about I'o.ooo rules, iiiachlue guns mid
iinimun.ilon Jiiddcn beneath a layer of
gosl.s which ine manifest declined us
tlie essel'.s v,le migil.
The tiainp -teiiiiiilili. with the sub
marine geiierallv cliwe by, pt through
the Caitegat, up alont; the coast of Nor
wi.y, alwas k.ep ng within tenltonal
watei The Jouili'y was nude at 11
Ieiurel pace,
not th and uc.-t
until vessels struck
on a course whn h left
the Orkne Islands. the Shetland
Iflaluls and even the l aio.; Islands fa
te the notilh.
" "iius.i ji.urui ouai iusU,., up
.simnriii linn iieii.ainieii me reason lor
the present e of ii peaceful Dutch trader
so far nntth. The Germans pleaded the
perils from mines anil submarines In
the liiglNh Channel an explanation,
and produced the ship' papers, all of
which were in perfect older.
Time wai nothing warlike about the
Miip. 111:11 ot course ineio v.as 110 sign
01 uie .oir.oving surci ant e, wii',!, suu-
tneigeo vihen the Hr.tish ,atiol was
35 DEMOCRATS IN REVOLT
SMASH PHILIPPINE SLATE
Tammany Leaders and Others Decide in Caucus to Vote
Against Administration's Measure for
Independence of Filipinos.
W vsiiim.ton, Apnl 27 -Thirty-five
revolting Demooiats, led by members of
the Tammany delegation. In the majority
caucus of the House to-night, put a qui",
tus tip 111 the Admiuisiiatlou's plan for
turning 01 er the Philippine Islands
within four eais
Tli. recal, itrants, with the almost
solid luiuoill.v arra.ved against the pend
ing bill, will constitute an ample ma
jority to defeat the Independence meas
ure It was ptedleted to-night that at
least ten more Democrats, who were not
pres. nt iit the caucus to.ii.icht. would
Join the levult Twent) -eight served
notice upon their party colleagues that
they would not observe the taurus de
ci ee.
The Jones lesolution, leav 11. g the I'ento
cratti ttee to vote nt. they cboo-e on the
piobib.tiou provision for the liiillppluii,
was iirl.itMl b, a vote of 111! to 3.V
The iiitijor.ty leadeis. frankly confess
ipg tatlr defeat tn the face of the sup.
port in corded them by the Piestdevt In
Ills letter urging undivided Democratic
KUppmt of the Senate bill with the
Clarke iniieudiiient. said that tlie ine.is.
lire would not b- abandoned. Chairman
Joiier of tlie Insular Affulis Comnilttie
Intimated that an effort would be made
to secure siullclent support to p iss the
bill e xtending the time within which lie
I dependence may lie granted to ten yais
I or more, If net ess.n
Irish liiesloii I p.
The twenty-eight inouiliets who ah-j
I solved themselves from the caucus pi. dgo I
were Allen, Ohio ISeakcs, Michigan; I
Hruckner, New York Caiew, New Yoik;1
C.iwdv. Maryland; Coney, New York;,
'Dale, New York . Doollug, New York;'
. ICgau, New Jeisey , Kstnplu.il, liulsana .
Farley, New York . Fitzgerald and l'lynn.
New Voik. Gallagher, Illinois. Gallivan,
Massachusetts i.rllhn, New 1 ork , Hint,
New Jersej . llulhert, New York
Igo.i,
1 jiidsiiurli McAndrews, Illinois. AIcDer
I .,, olh. Mulier. New Vorlc
,,Kierby. New York, olney. M.issachu
1 .... n v..... vi, i.i . ... s.. ....
". " t.t .1. it ........ ..ill,
j yorh Shetlcv
s;,,,v y0rk.
Kentucky, and Smith,
1 T,. nJ,., ,,f ,he nisi, question
Into the debate a mused the resentment
.,. seit-.i.i 101,110.1 s it 110 ocuoiiiiceii me
suggestion that a piuallel could be
diuwn between the attitude of the I'nlted
States toward Hie Philippines and the
attitude of llnghind toward the Irish.
Impassioned speeches followed.
Itepieseutatlvn Taggart of Kansas
was licllounclhK the ilnlc pendelK e 10.1 -
lure of the bill when Iteprescutntlve,
Italney ot Illinois, of the Administration
supporters, asked if he would vote fori" " ' '''"" "' l"Mi.v -'
Irish freedom ",r raped a serious accident to-night when
The question Plough! Ilepi esentntive I .'!"' V!l,u r01 "f "'" l'f"",',llv"
Gnlllvnn of Massachusetts to his ieet! 1 ' ,tt Wstetford sta-
"Then, nre no Hlshmen heie," he ,e. H'"- three miles wesf of this cit.v, and
torled. "We are all Americans and the. V1""1", '''trt -live nn es 1.11 houi T'-c
Impllcntlnn of the gentleman fiom j. ! locomotive "stripped Itself , that is. t..
llnols bus no place In this discussion," . t"i"ectlng rods ,,u one sld. bu.ke
Iteprfeqlullve Coiuy. ,1 conspicuous Tlief.' wie 11 rcp.ut that (he tr.,1, had
figure among the revolting Tnmni.iiiv I ,'r''n 'lerailcl, but tins was tloi ,,! by
inembers, took up the cudgels for Mr
Taggnrt. He said a comparison of the
.. .f il,. n..iiA.i u. ...... 1.. .1.-
....... ........ 11. 111. , ,.,,,i.
pines with what Kngland has done in
treiuna oi,,,. ....,.i..t.
tucuv Aaaeci to tnn luemnii hv niis.i..t,ir,u.
Arms
sighted, lJien the ir.tmpb .lew wal
not suspicious looking Many niokc
.''igllsh, expressing sympathy for the
allied cause, and tlin hope that they
would not meet a ruthless U boat.
The ef-el was allowed to proceed.
Oiv e the Hrltlsh patrol boat had dis
appeared the tramp steamer's course
was shaved pout tin. ml, and before long
north Ireland was sighted. Again the
pace was leisurely. The "Dutchman"
kept close to ihn coaM
Suddenly another lli.tlsh patiol boat
appeared, A shot was fired across the
tramp steamet's bows, ami the peremp
tory signal, "1 ntn boarding you," was
hoisted Then the tramp was ordeied
to acei.nipnny the patrol. After some
d.etaii. e had bern covi red the patrol
sent armed boats for the ciew, The.
"Hutch" crew then confessed that they
weie Herman navy men. Their ship,
which they had Just scuttled, was n
small auxiliary of the KalseiV fleet, In
tent irpon tunning guns to Ireland.
A boat which did not belong to the
sunken vessel nlso was found. It was
a collapsible of the pattern curried bv
Herman submarines in it were two
men. one of whom admitted that he
was Sir Itoger Casement ll ....! l,u
! companion, two i.rrii ers m.i m..,n. .......
of the crew of the auxiliary weiu'made
prisoneis
Inl.e I iiseiiient li London.
Sir Itoger was promptly lamled and
sent to London The others were treated
as oidinary prisoners of war.
"It is on tees.n.,.1 u,i,i. .1,..
.lnil, "that the siihniailne cominamler 1
received orders before leaving Kiel that'
whatever befell the expedition the pres. 1
once of Sir linger Casement was no'
lonner uesireo 111 lierniany. Hence,
when the Herman commuidcr realized
that his plans had miscarried, lie or.
deied Sir linger Into the lollapsiblo boat
i nnd left him to his fni,.
The Itoger Casement of to-day Is of
a vastly different appearance from that
of the man who ifalneil f.,m.. nt i...
i ,, , t the I'uttilniiyo scamial,
He will
then of a smart
appearance.
with thick,
dink hair, frailest eyes, and long black
heard.
The Casement of to-day Is of aged
appearance. His hair is decked with gray
and Ills eves are shifty and nervous,
while the full beard has given way to
old fashioned mutton chop whiskers and
1 a mustache, leaving a square, bar.
hlu
which he nervntily sti okes as If he
the ploy of constant anxiety
were
.
that the caucu pro, ecu. ng. m.gh! ug-ge-r
what would happen in an Irish p.'.
Lament The debate vv.us still on when
th" caucus adjourned
Kor two hours the caucus dis, ued
the Philippine bill before the vote was
t Ik. 11 will, h disclosed the falluie of the
Democratic leaders to control their
for.es. Appeals were made to the mem
bers 11. uphold party loyalc. and tin
President's indorsement of the measure
was Invoked as a reason for putting the
measure through Intact.
When It came to a vote on the Clarke
nmei.dment providing that the eiandi
be efi to their ow ti resources at the end
of font vears it was obvious, that the re.
vnlting members were Mini in their pu -fiose
and no further effort was made hv
ihe majority leadeis to effei t a 1 one
plonilse.
HI II) ri 1111 I'n ni 111 11 11 .1 .
Tlie itisurrectlon of tlie T.iinm.ry
inemhcrs was the subject of much spec.i
lat'on to-day Predictions wcte made
that it merely foreshadowed the open
aieak that would take place lift vv ecu the
delegation and tlie White House and tlmt
it wae im I fly the tiist act of what would
be a pelMslei.t revolt
The tiuiiiler.ee of the Tiiminativ niem
beis has long been a souiee of misgiv
ing to the majority leaders. The PresJ.
dent's appointment of Senator Wagner
as po-tmaser at New York, which was.
regarded as an ollw branch, was not
accepted in the spirit in whi.h it was
tendered
The attitude of Senator Oiiornian
toward many nf the Pi es'.dent's appoint
ments of postmasters has also Indi
cated a marked degree of Independence
In manv Instances postmasters who
have not received the appiovnl of tlie
local 1 leinociatic organization have
met with the olije. Hon of the Senator
from New York. In which cases they
weie 1 ejected by the Senate
1 11 a so i.i.s neen runioreu llial .serial. ir
O'nnrmun Is show ng the same inde-
'pendence In connection with the Hiandelt
' nomination and that theie is a povdhlltiv
that he will vote to reject the President's
'selection for the Supreme Court
1 The caucus It. regarded as a straw. In
I dlc'itlng what may be expected in the
ranks ot tnn majoritv pernio vongiess
( lias ended the w 01 k of the session
GILT EDGE EXPRESS ESCAPES. '
lecl.let.l Avoided h Hod MrcHhsi
In Wreck Iteceiill.t .
Nnw I.oniion, Conn, A pi tl 27 Tin
t.1.1 1.UK1- lOl'i,--.-" i"l ine .sctv lOllt. C.CW
1
Ml1'' laicnuei'i v w lechini; crew of ma
1 chineis oni was . nt to the seen,. !u , ,
. Li,i,.i 1. 11. ,i l cm... 1. ., i. ,.u ... ... .1 ...i. .
- .. ....... .. 1 in
I trim, lost haK 11,1 ln.111 Th
h'.,,r .... r,.ii., ....
Hdt Iciuc
"lie whi.h
1 telescoped lb
lo. express nt I It .iili'tn .1.
11
u week ato laut Mcmla,
(Jen. Sir .John 3Ia.Well to
Take Charge of Govern
ment Forces.
DE.MAXD IX COMMONS
FOR RIRRELL TO QUIT
Irish Authorities Indirectly
Accused of Conniving:
With Rebels.
RED.M0XD A XI) CARSOX
DEXOFXCE I XSCROEXTS
Sit nut inn Well in Hand."
Says Report of British
Officials.
s.ee., i nble DrtpitcS tn Tin suv
Lonpon. April 27. "The s tuatlnn In
Ireland N still serious. The i evolutionary
movement Is spreading to the west and
south."
The House of Common-, assured "f-tj
days ago that the Dublin revolt wm
"tell in hand," received the above an
nouncement by Pieniicr Asuulth to-dav
I with unconcealeii consternation
vll tr..i-.ii.i i, ... i .. .1
A" Ir,'1-"1'l "- l'e.. placed under
martial law. Laige contingents of llrlt
Nil fo.ip.s f 1 0111 Wales nro on the way
to Ireland to reenforce thn ijovernment
loi.-es already there. .Majn-Hen. Sir
John Maxwell, formerly commander In
chief of the Hrltlsh forces In Kgypt,
left for Inland this afternoon to tak
lull eotiti.il of the country und' i milltarr
law
Those iiild.llon.il far ts were announced
by the in in. .Minister in to.a.ii
1 of the P.11 lliinient. Mr. Amoi.fh ,...,.,i
that tlie troops now en mute for the seat
of the icvolt are adequate"
Mrocl I'lghtlim Ciiiiilinira,
The Prem.er declared that the leheta
ate ptlll In possession of Important build
ings nn.i that street lighting is continuing
He added that a th.in.ugh .'.vrstigatlou
will be made ti.1.1 the , i,i... .1...
I In en o and the ir.pote.b.hu tor it Tn
. Hovei ninonCs n. st duly, howe . , e ,.e
I'ha.ze,. was to put tli- ie. ) down.
.in- i.ues! oinciai siateinent
fssqed
ot i,oru i.ans,iow ue m the
1 'ominous, was CJ tl ff,. t
Houst of
that there'
Louth and
aim Lusk,
v ere uprisings in .vrdeo ami
"serious trouble' in mvoi.Is
all close to- Dublin
laird Lansilow lie ad'n.tted
1.1' P evN
ous irironn mi,., that th
weie no dl.-
iiitii.uiios In the piovlnccs I
a. curate
been Hi
Tlie Hist boa; fi, Dublin smr-e trl
t-uihre.,1. of the l ..hellion ait, veil at Holy.
. ... Mil 11 l"ir Iv lusiown
nt
o" ,. .v nam ror r, ,,d ,.fi
Lo n-
'i. ioi- iinij iieini 11, is
passengeis aie . j,eci. ,
town without undue del 1
ever. ! The)
to re 1. ltl .
lolin Htdmond received t.e. ,,,,
night fiom Irish aluoad. Iii.l.gnai t,v iiw
PUdlatlllg the r.belbo,, MlssaKe.t 'f, ,
...en 111.11 1,1 .VI.MIil 1.1 ,11.. .....,..
mphatlc
Sir Kd ward c.n-on. leader of ihe I'N
sterlles, a, John Jieduiond, head of th
.N ..il.in.i Nt part,, both made a clear
it declaiatlon In he Commons I Ms.
...... ......ii . ..inn- 1 1 inir rne 111,1,1
Volt,
te
1101 neiimi.j I Heir union.,
lice
ll nd
mowings to the Hovernmenis support
III que I," the r.ols V
tlo'.e ae. I f..r.t.rt
more," 1
The ,
ship has
- .-.1 i.nnar.i iMr-uii put it
losest poss.hle mil'.iry .ensor-
en pu; into rfTe t on all nmvsj
tile d. v elootni... . m ... 1.
warding
VVI.I... .1 . i...v... , . .,,m.
...... v.oviuiimiit was einphatii. til
lis ' vPlcs-lou of conjldeiice tint tt,e re
volt will I,,, put down qulckh in,. gCn.
lal reeling hd,. that lippor-an, fcti
con.eriiiiig Hie pres. nt st. tie .,s well us
wn.i, li.ipp.ncd in Dublin dur o tan List
for .v. eight hours ate withheld
"".' -eci.i.n.v .saimi.c at nonnced
hi
.0- iiou-e int.. l.iMlay t),.,,
K'emd information that ovr
Had Just
"iisiih r-
anio districts'' of lr. i.m.i
, aim 1 evnll.t.
H
s,ot' lissnianccs ill:.. ,.. 1.1.. t .
ti, ,ues consistent with the ..1 '
gen. ies will five 11 til. Ii, Wsp.
..1 v
exit
I ilea
" I'HUI.ll 111101 in. ill. ,11.
S t IMw.11, 1 Caisiin oifere.l i pae4
ll.s l's., ,. vdunleers at the dl-ios;ll of
1 Suv eminent lo help m ihe suppres-
s on of the 11 hellion
Theie have been no d:.i 11 1,.. ores In
nor lb Ireland, a, cording ,. all des
patches A message late r.i ivr t ,,
liondoiiderrv leooited ...inplc-o order In
t..ai patt of the island.
The niirhoi Ities at l.nndoi ,i,.rrv took;
nti.isiiies to prevent inlet ference with lh
toads and railwavs. teh graphs and tele,
phones, bin th.se sieps proved nunc vs..
salt itusln.ss 's , .rill, I Hare. .let.
patches mi, adding thai -he troop
have not had 10 leave the l.arru. ,s Til
lo'.loweis 01 John Itedrnon.l coidiallj l.t
piove ",,f the loiai action" 0r the Nn
llonahst Voliiiitecr.s at Diib'ie
tei'retey lllrrell ittncUril. .
Hitter attacks against the Oovenu
nicnt. and pari, ul.niy against the ,tu,
llioiitles in Ireland, were made u, thrt
lloii.-e of Commons e'!cr,la and to.
dav, the criticism being con, eni.aicd on
the alleged lack of preparation and
t meh despatch ,,f sullici. nl forces to
the scene of th,. 11, us 1 i,,c member to.
d.i deinauded Ihe tesign.it o .,f Vugut.
tine lllrrell, Chief Hooretat fir Ireland.
Fiom an account by l.ord 1 .ausiinw no
in behalf of the Gov crnniet t it appe.irsi
thai the rebels nr.. still in possession
' of
Hie City Hall, the Four CoiiiTh. una
Hie
Wesieru Hind and Ami. IIH ItO.lff
inilw.iy stations, h,,. main centres nf
communication with Hnglanil Tele
graph mid i.il.lc commuiilcat.i.n is stilt
laigely Interrupted
Tlie only pine., f ,,m vv In, I. the ichclsj
weie dihen out sin, e the rebellion was
Initiated last Monday s Stephen':
Giffii. it' last iilght'N stat. ment .j l.or.1
Lnnsiliiwni. held 1111 bv tho censor for
iiciliv iwetitv -four hours still holds
good nml it lias not been supplemented.
He declined the ichcls on Monday mails
a "o.ilf hc.nie.l attack on Dublin Castle,
but did not press it," and then occupied
Stephen t. Green and the other pultun
ciiuiiiciiiie.l I'loin Stephen's. Green they
wcte ejected, "with u certain number
t
&hl4a'H& t"Vi-l.'i.,i -
