' 5 V'S
> I
' Partly cloudy and continued cool to- k . . . A f . A jQli ^ I Today's Star Contains l] J
?'I _ 14 A glf *V atff Two Parr.
Temperature for H I W * I H I I H I I I I J\ I * X RTtS.
\?j/l]JC p^XiKlUUJU L-- J
CLOSING NEW YORK STOCKS PAGE 31. ^ Ml*, ?Wlf A?n|S Will > IMM
No. 20,:W2. WASHINGTON, D. C., FRIDAY, APRIL 28, 1916.-TWENTY-SIX PAGES. ONE CENT.
- _ .? _____? . i *
OREGON ARRIVES
TO PARTICIPATE IN
THE CONFERENCI
Reaches Juarez Today?U. S
Generals Are Expected
in El Paso Tonight.
40.000 CARRANZISTAS
IN NORTHERN MEXICi
Their Presence to Be Argument c
Southern Republic for Withdrawal
of TJ. S. Troops.
GEN. FUNSTON MAY GO SOUT]
Commander of Department Desires t
Inspect Forces of Punitive Expedi
tion if Affairs of Army
Will Permit.
IM. r.\>u. lex.. ,\pni _'fv
r.en. Alvaro Obregou. minister c
war of tlie Mexican de facto go\
eminent, is in Juarez today awail
i"g to confer with Mai. Gen
Scott and Funston on the mil
tary questions that are involve
in the American punitive cxped
tion into Mexico.
Gen. ' tbregon. awonipanied by Go
Ja-into Trevino. military governor <
< 'ItiliuaiitKt; Gen. Samuel S. Santos, (/o
Knriquez of Chihuahua, and Presideni
.lose de Luz Herrera of F'arral. reachc
Juarez on a special train this morninf
V
The third section of Gen. Obregon
ttain bearing Gen. Luis Guiterrez. mil
tary governor of Chihuahua state, wj
derailed south of Juarez, and seven
passengers were reported injured,
is not known whether Gen. Guiterr*
was hurt. Gen. Obregon reached Juarf
on the second section of the speci;
tain.
Gens. Scott and Funston are due t
r? . i here tonight, when it is expecte
ti-av arrangements w ill be made for tl"
first conference to be held in Juarez.
The Mexican minister of war hel
several conferences today with th
military and civil authorities of the d
- - - KSKooKua 1
l?cior guvcriimom v>u?ua>.u?,
which every phase of the situation wa
discussed, ho that the presentation <
the Mexican proposals could be mad
t?? Gens. Scott $nd Funston.
Obregon's Most Potent Argument.
The protective presence in norther
Mexico of Carranza troops wi
be the most potent argument brougl
f? the border today by Gen. Alvar
obiegon. Mexican secretary of vfar, i
his effort to convince Gens. Hugh 1
Scott and Frederick Funston that tb
American expeditionary forces shou!
be withdrawn from Mexican soil.
Mexican officials here believe Gei
Obregon will assure the Americans tha
when the last United States troopei
cross to the north of the internatiom
boundary the de facto army will fori
behind them a line of patrols that wi
render future bandit raids on the boi
der impossible.
Added to this, they say, he will r<
peat the declaration he made at Ch
l.Uahua city, that the cheifs of the cor
stitutionalist cause are in perfect hat
niony and amply able to control tb
small bands of bandits still at large.
No Hint of Mexican Answer.
There is no indication here as t
n -at answer the Mexican minister <
v.a? will make to the apparent intei
tion of the Washington government J
maintain Gen. Pershing's columns i
Chihuahua until such time as Get
Carranza's forces have proved thei
ability to w ipe out the bandit men
ace It is pointed out. however, ths
it is unlikely he will take any actio
that would precipitate a break wit
the I nited States, since interventio
is said to be the last eventuality d
pi ed by the Carranza adherents.
??ri the other hand, it is expecte
Gen. Obregon will assert that tb
l'riited States should hesitate aboi
taking any step, such as leaving tb
t roups in Mexico, that would endang<
the stability of the de facto goveri
went, which, Mexican officials contem
is slowly bringing order out of chat
in 'he devastated country.
observers here of Mexican affaii
c\pe?-t concessions from both side
wlm-li will result in a temporary pi
tr??I by Gen. Pershing's troops of ;
least a portion of the territory the
now occupy pending an adequate can
paign of ? arranza troops agamci u
scattered bandit croups of souther
and western Chihuahua and Iturang
Reception for War Minister.
* military reception was arrant
fo> ?ien. Obregon by Gen. Gavira, cor
mender of the .Juarez garrison on h
s**rr. a! in .Juarez today. The Mexics
w;s decorated with (lags ai
h i. c ?n honor <?f t h? visitors.
" *idinc arn\al ??f Gen;-;. Scott ai
I 'ton. ".\ no did not reach HI J'a
i nine. Gen Obregon is <o
f' 'ii? n Gavira and tin- Mex
? t-ul in Kl I'a so. Andres Garci
<; j>- Scott and Kunston will be m
l- Vu. George Hell. jr.. commander
tlr in I'atso base, and his staff. It
* ed that oti then first night he
ti.< \:sititig officers will remain in tl
? d' sioii of the private car in vv hi<
th? > are traveling from San Antonl
Funaton May Go South.
SAN ANTONIO. Tex . April 2R
A t. officers here believe Maj. Ge
l-'unsioii will visit the field headpua
t? -?f the \uierican forces in Mexi
fol'ovving the conference in Juarez wi
n < ihregon. 'arranza minister
w.?
l-?e?o?e leaving for Ml I'aso Ccu. Ku
ston '-xpressed a desire to inspect tl
f?e>p*. and he ina> make the trip
ffw irs of the southern department
the army will permit.
Pushing Villistas to the Wall.
COM MBLS. N. M . April 28. ? Villa
scattered adherents are gradually b
(Continued on Sixteenth Page.)
BRITISH BATTLESHIP
! ISSUNKWITH 124
[ i Disaster Occurs in Mediterranean,
When the Russell
>. Strikes Mine.
702 MEN ARE RESCUED.
INCLUDING OFFICERS
q German Submarine Reported Destroyed
Off the East Coast
,! of England.
?f
LONDON. April 28. 1:52 p.m.?The
British battleship Russell has been sunk
by a mine. Admiral Fremantle. the captain
of the Russell, twenty-four officers
and 878 men were saved. About 124 men
from the Russell are missing:. The warship
was sunk in the Mediterranean.
0 The sinking: of the Russell and of a
German submarine was announced in the
following: official statement:
"H. M. S. Russell. Capt. William W.
Bowden Smith. R. N., flying: the flag of
Rear Admiral Fremantle. struck a mine
in the Mediterranean yesterday and was
sunk The admiral, captain, twenty-four
officers and 676 men were saved. There
jf are about 124 officers and men missing.
"A German submarine was sunk off
| the east coast yesterday. One officer and
j seventeen men of the crew surrendered
5 and were made prisoners."
i- I Description of Vessel.
d 1'nder ordinary conditions the Russell
carried between 750 and 80O men.
The Russell was laid down in 1890. and
completed in 190.1. She was 405 feet long,
i, 7". feet beam. 26 feet deep, and displaced
14,000 tons. She was armed with four
12-inch, twelve 0-inch, twelve 2-inch
v- and six 2-pound guns and four torpedo
?e tubes. She cost about $5,000,000.
, The Russell is the eleventh British bat d
tieship which has been lost during the
war. The others were the Audacious.
Bulwark. Formidable. Irresistible, Ocean.
s Goliath. Triumph. Majestic, Natal and
King Edward VII. In addition about
i- thirty-five other British warships of
IS various classes have been destroyed.
British Ship Torpedoed
and Crew Left in Boats
120 Miles From Land
al
EON DON. April 28.?The British
steamship Industry has been sunk by a
| submarine, which left the crew of the
vessel in open boats 120 miles from
le
land. The crew was picked up by the
j American liner Finland.
e The captain of the Danish steamer
[e Johanne was "killed when the vessel
n struck a mine in the North sea, acLS
cording to a dispatch to the Exchange
Telegraph from Copenhagen. The re,r
mainder of_ the crew was landed at
le Hamburg. The jonanne was a vessel or
791 tons and was built in 1908. Her
home port was Esbjerg.
Blown Up and Sunk.
n
j j The Norwegian steamship Stromsnaes.
bound for Lubeck with a cargo of
herring from Norway, has been blown
up and sunk off Gjedser. Denmark. The
I : crew was landed at Warnemunde, Gerie
many.
id The Dutch steamship Maashaven struck
a mine Wednesday while bound from
n. I^ondon to Rotterdam. A tug carrying
it the survivors arrived at Waterweg yes's
terday.
il On April 1 the Maashaven hit a mine
rn on the English coast, hut managed to
II teach the Thames. Necessary repairs
r- were made, and last Tuesday the vessel
left for Rotterdam in tow of two tugs.
?- It is learned that the Maashaven had
i- been beached near Harwich. She probi
ably will be salvaged.
r- The Dutch tug Noordzee has been sunk,
ie Lloyds announces.
Dutch Tell of Losses.
The Dutch ministry of marine, in a
o communication issued yesterday concern?f
ing the explosion by which the Dutch
i- steamers Maashaven and Dubhe were
o damaged and the tug Noordzee was sunk.
says the accident, occurred Wednesday
rA morning at the same place where the
1- Dutch steamers Colombia, on April 12,
r and the Lodewijk Van Nassau struck
mines, namely, about three miles
" north northwest of the Galloper buoy,
it Two of the Noordzee's crew were
u drowned. The statement adds that
h neither periscopes nor torpedo tracks
n | were seen.
The Swedish steamer J. J. Dickson.
! bound to Amsterdam, was captured and
j | taken to Hamburg by the fleet of German
I warships, while the fleet was returning;
' ( from the bombardment of the English
| coast on Tuesday last.
i- German Naval Forces
i. :
Destroy British Guard
Ship and Take Prize
it BERLIN, April 28, via London, 2:0s
y p.m.?The admiralty announced todaj
|C that on the night of April 26-27 <7erman
naval forces destroyed a larg?
fJ British guard vessel on Dogger ban*
and brought in a fishing steamer as s
prize.
;n11 "Is Baker the Man:
1: for the Job?" :
""!* ^UKSIDKNT WILSON J
* 1 M recently appointed X
:j. ^ the Mayor of Cleve- +
? I land to he Secretary 4
et of War.
"f What will he do in this re- j
'* t sponsible position at a time ^
r** 11J when the destiny of the na- I
^ tion depends more than ever 4
11 ) upon his activities? Will he 4
'?- l 4 make a failure of the business 4
j intrusted to him. or will he 4
! 4 show an exceptional apti- 4
rude for conducting army af- T
! fairs through the present I
n- J crisis? 4
r- ^ How did President Wilson 4
co * come to decide upon him? I
. 4 What sort of a man is he, 4
4 anyway? 4
of Burton J. Hendrick has an- 4
swered all these questions in 4
n an interesting article on the J
I " new member of 1 he cabinet 7
jf ^ ?' next ^
of 5 ?
Sunday Magazine J
/ of The J
' ? Sunday Star |
GERARD WILL MEET
KAISER TH1SEVENING
American Ambassador Now or
Way to Army Headquarters
for Personal Interview.
INVITATION DELIVERED
BY FOREIGN MINISTER
i
: German Emperor's Decision to Hav?
Discussion With Envoy Regarded
in Berlin as Encouraging.
I
BERLIN. April 28.?James W. Gerard
the American ambassador, and Joseph C
Grew, secretary of the American embassy.
left. Berlin last night for Germar
army headquarters for an audience with
Emperor William.
Although no information has been giver
out regarding the purpose of Ambassador
Gerard's journey, it is evident thai
Emperor William wishes a thorough personal
talk with him in order to obtair
j a clearer view of the American positior
on the submarine issue.
The ambassador and Secretary Gre^?
traveled in a special saloon car attachec
to a regular train placed at their disposal.
Mr. Gerard was attended by_th?
embassy's chasseur. The train will read
its destination at 7 p.m. today, and Ambassador
Gerard expects to return or
Saturday.
The invitation to vfsit the Germar
headquarters was brought to the ambassador
personally by Foreign Ministei
von Jagow.
Regarded as Good Omen.
The invitation is regarded in flnancia
1 circ-les as a good omen. Neverthelesj
i experienced observers consider th<
I situation still very serious, and believe
that the mere fact of the ambassador'.*
meeting with the emperor and his ad
visers is of less importance than wha'
was done at the conference at Germai
headquarters. The ultimate decision a
Washington is held to be quite in
calculable until it is known how fai
Germany meets American wishes.
The news that Ambassador Gerarc
was going to the headquarters was al
ready known at noon yesterday, bui
the censors, for some mysterious reason.
refused to allow cablegrams to b?
sent announcing that fact until last
night, just as they had refused to pass
dispatches with news that the American
note had been handed to the foreigr
office until the next day.
A feeling of confidence that a solutior
will be found to the pending GermanAmerican
difficulties and that the present
tension will he ended exerted ar
evident influence on the Berlin Slocl
Exchange on Wednesday. The markei
was quiet, but firm, and dealers who or
'ruesa&y uniwaucu ?iuuo n??o vi
stocks were repurchasing. This feeling
was strengthened by reports of a re
covery on the >?ew York stock markei
for the same reason.
Chancellor at Headquarters.
The chancellor. Dr. von BethmannHollweg,
and Admiral von Holtzendorff
chief of the naval general staff, hav<
been at the general headquarters.
Not the least of the difficulties in th<
way of reaching an understanding ii
the restricted channel of communica
lion between Washington and Berlin
Ambassador BernstorfT is unable t<
communicate with his government ex
cept in open cipher, and no supple
mentary information on the situatior
in Washington is available here. Ar
experienced neutral diplomat has
summed up the situation in an epigram
saying there is no case on record ir
which complicated diplomatic question:
have been settled by a mutual bombardment
of formal notes, not supple
rnented by simultaneous diplomatic ne
gotiatious.
German statesmen realize fully thi:
erreat handican to a settlement. One O!
the highest of them said to the correspondent
of the Associated Press:
"So. we have no news, and Ambassa
dor Gerard. I understand, has noni
either. This fact makes negotiation!
extremely difficult. We have as ye
taken no decisions and do not wish t<
take them in the absence of further in
formation."
The statesman did not wish to discuss
the possibilities of a settlement
but so far as could be judged from hi!
manner he was not discouraged excep
by the fact that he and his colleague:
were forced to work more or less in th<
dark.
Germany Hopes to Meet
Demand for Abandonment
of U-Boat Acts at Once
bfspatches received at the Gertnar
embassy today frotn the Berlin forelgr
office indicate that Germany will at
teinpt to meet the American demand!
for the immediate abandonment of iti
| present practices in submarine war
fare. The nature of the proposals ar<
not disclosed.
Count von Bernstorff lias not beer
advised whether the suggestions he re
cently made to his government wt tin
invitation of the foreign W-"<
' been adopted. He expects additiona
' dispatches.
A visit of Ambassador Gerard to bZm
? peror William was a topic of broad in
c terest in official and diplomatic quar
i ters today. German embassy official!
believed the emperor invited Mr. Gerarc
: to confer with him for the purpose o:
, elaborating, for the benefit of Presi
dent Wilson, his position and the posl
tion of the German government, in fur
ther explanation of certain phases o
the forthcoming German reply to th<
American note. It Vould be unusua
for the emperor to conduct negotiation:
directly with the diplomatic represent
ative of a foreign government.
President Wilson expects to receiv
the German reply within the next fev
days. although the basis for his ex
pectalion was not revealed.
The President, officials declare, wil
not be Influenced in the slightest by tin
thousands of telegrams sent in th<
past few days to senators and repre
eentatives urging them not to approv
any action which might lead to war
Ilis course in the German situation, i
is declared, will be guided entirely b;
the character of the German reply.
Secretary I^ansing has received fron
the British government a copy of th<
confidential Instructions to captains o
British merchant ships, now said to b
in operation. The Secretary has no
yet compared the British version of tH<
instructions with the German version
which was submitted with the Germai
declartion of intention to regard a
warships enemy merchant ships carrying
armament.
The British version appeared to b
nearly, if not wholly, identical wit]
that which was given out in Ixuidoi
last February and cabled to the Unitei
States in press dispatches. It was in
dicated that some statement might b
issued later by the State Dspartmen
for the guidance of Americans travel
ing ^ sea.
* - #
^f!ToV ^
WHO MADE PRESIDENT W1LS<
GREECE HOVERS ON BRINK
OF POLITICAL CATACLYSM
1
; Resort to Arms to Overthrow Present
Government Likely?Even Army
Shows Keen Dissatisfaction.
t
ATHENS, Sunday, April 23, via Rome an official application to Austria, whereand
Paris, April 28, delayed.?An 1m- at^ac^e 8 case was returned
partial observer who has just returned
from a tour of all the mainland of Bulgars Not Seeking Peace.
; Greece report, an amazing spread of AMSTERDAM, via London. April M.
sentiment in favor of Ellptherios ten.- _Gpn Jostofr chlef 0{ the Bulgarian
. zeloa. the former premier, even in con- Reneral ataff. who haa just vislted Em.
, servative I'eloponnesus. The recent ef- peror w|Illam ?? (hc western front.
. forts of the government to suppress ,Q|d a representatlve of thc Tageblatt
the demonstrations and meetings of tlm ,hera waa nothing to the report
, the Venizelos adherents has awakened |ha( Bl?Bariil jg geekinK a aeparate
- deep resentment among the people and peace
; there is a growing determination to Gen' Jogto(r accordin(t to th? news.
, oust the present government even if paper, said he found Emperor William
i it be necessary to resort to arms. confident and in excellent spirits. Ask.
The Associated Press learns from in- nil .VT'iZl
contestable authority that several jajj depended on the outcome of the
leaders of the revolution of 1909 are 8trugg:le at Verdun,
actively engaged in planning a similar |
attempt, although Venizelos depre- Negotiations Carried On.
cates this and advises instead the practice
of patience and use of legal meth- BERLIN. April 27.?"Reports from
ods On the other hand the recent plot Bucharest state." says the Overseas
breadth "owin^'to "hV extraordinary News Agency, "that negotiations are
devotion and watchfulness of his fol- being carried on between the Rumalowers.
nian and Bulgarian . 'vernments, with
King for Policy of Inaction. * viPW to regulating 'he economic reB
lations between the two nations in
Frequent talks with King Constan- jthc same way as between Germany and ;
tine have convinced the Associated Rumania.
. .1 * ??? rrh T,le efforts of Rumania to obtain
Press correspondent that the o medicines in Germany have been suchonestly
is persuaded that a policy of oessful. twenty carloads of such supinaction
is approved by a majority of plies from German sources having ar.
, srsu i ~ nar.;,tB ;n rived in Rumanian territory."
the Greek people. The king persists in
regarding the recent demonstrations of jjt Envoy Protests to Bulgars.
the growing popularity of Venisclos as LONDON, April 28?Baron Newton,
mere political maneuvers. under secretary for foreign affairs, has
foTm^rW pyemic" "lies'nThe^lscontent addressed a communication to Stephen
among the rank and file of the army, Walsh, labor member of parliament,
who largely atend the meetings of the 8aying that a letter received by the
Venizelos followers an<* * ho,ofrea0mir American ambassador in London from
i ly dissatisfied and declare that a pur- . _. . . 4 . , . .
poseless mobilization is depriving their Lewis Einstein, American minister to
. Ifumilips f\t their mintiorl I Ruloro ? ?? "hnflrmo t I 111
, It is stated in well informed quarters - D ,, , _ t
that so many soldiers have returned to treatment of British prisoners in Bul"
their homes without permission that garia.
3 the general staff is unable to treat "Mr. Einstein." says Baron Newton's
3 them as deserters, and is obliged to j letter, "is keenly alive to the urgent
* grant them leave which they already i necessity of bringing about an immei
have taken. ! diate improvement, and he has already
addressed tb Bulgaria a vigorous re1
Officers Also Discontented. monstrance."
s vlvcn ihe officers of the army, with Italians Arrest Greeks.
the exrepWr-- in higher com- ? .
1^ ..r . , Officers + Greek patrol in the Tepniand,
are di?-:ontenteC eWfwitiisjland- r9 .. v
. elin sector on the northern frontier of
- ing that an increase of pay has been
* , , , Epireus have been arrested by the
" granted to them by royal decree. .. .. ... ?
- * . , ,. , . . Italians, according to reports from
Neutral diplomatic observers who are ? _
* . . , , . . Athens. says the Overseas News
1 iri a position to judge declare that the . . ,
i Agency today. "These officers had heen
* present situation cannot last sixty days . .... ...
. 1 , A ... . invited in a cordial manner by the Itallonger.
and that unless an allied of- ians meet them for the discussion
. fensive against Bulgaria relieves the; of military questions.
f tension by sweeping the Greeks into! ' The attitude adopted by the Ital&
war with their ancient enemies, a po- 'ans has caused excitement in Greece,
1 I litical cataclysm in Greece is inevl-ithe advices state, and the rGeek govs
: tal>le. * ( ernrn?nt has made a protest to Rome."
- ! The time for a compromise between ' ?
the liberals and the adherents of the ijiAnr DllOOIAltio I ?Rinrn
e ministry has passed. A most rigid | MORE RUSSIANS LANDED
v triple censorship of all press telegrams
- keeps the world generally ignorant of 1 AT PORT AC MAR^FII I F
I actual conditions in Greece. | rv/ni Ur iVIMiiOul L.L.U
e Rumanians Disturbed. '>A?'S- ,Ap'" JS- 2 p-m-~A tHa s
dispatch from Marseille reports the
LONDON, April 28. The Rumanians arrival there of a further contingent
e are disturbed over the treatment by Qf Russian troops, the number of
Austro-Hungarlan authorities of a Ru- which is not given.
* manian military attache from the Ber- The Russians reached Marseille this
lin legation, whom they arrested at mornjng( the dispatch says, and disem1
Brasso, Transylvania, while he was on barked immediately. They were re?
his way to Bucharest w'th a diplomatic cc|ve<j with the same military and
1 case savs a Reuters dispatch from . ....
e Bucharest civil honors as were accorded the pre1
After protestations, the attache was vious Russian detachments, and were
e permitted to proceed, but the case was cheered by the people as thev marched
' retained. Upon his arrival at Bucha- to Camp Mirabeau. They will be sent
n rest the Rumanian government made in a few days to Camp Mailly.
8
* A Round of May Day Celebrations For the Capital.
Festal spirit of spring pervades the city, and
? public schools, charitable institution^ and dramatic
and religious societies will celebrate. You will find
! this article in The Sunday Star.
Z
Col geoiree. Harvey if /
vaiuto as the man kt^tj /
1>nho sent woodrow /
^SWILSON TO TUB- iwOT J
\^h,te- hoose kf&spg '
tfs^/ohas 0ecl??6.o ifflriptct /
TO
gto /
fl
ON?
licim riggT
case are consolidated
C. C. Glover, William J. and H. H.
Flather All Are to Be
Tried Kay 8.
we oo not oppose tne mouon aira
only desire the earliest possible disposition
of all the indictments."
This statement by Attorney William
G. Johnson of council for the defendants
in the Riggs Bank case, this morning,
before Justice Siddons in the Criminal
Division of the District Supreme
Court, was the only answer made by
the accused financiers to the motion
filed by United States Attorney Laskey
to consolidate the four indictments,
charging with perjury jointly and severally
Charles C. Glover, William J.
Flather and Henry H. Flather, respectively
president, vice president and former
cashier, of the Rlggs National
Bank.
At the request of Assistant Attorney
Archer, who appeared with United
States Attorney Laskey and Assistant
Attorney General Fitts for the government,
Justice Sidons ordered the consolidation
of the indictments for trial
May 8. The court also directed that
the record show the motion granted
with consent of the defendants.
Contention of Government.
One indictment is against the three
defendants. Bach of three other indictments
charges one of the defendants
with the alleged perjury. The government
in asking for the consolidation
pointed out that as the four indictments
treat of the same alleged offense
and the testimony would be the same
the cases should be heard together.
Counsel for the government called the
motion to the attention of Justice Siddons
at the convening of court, but as a
jury trial was in progress Justice Siddons
was about to defer the hearing of
the matter until later In the day when
Mr. Johnson arose and made his statement
acquiescing in the granting of the
motion.
Attorney George P. Hoover was present
in court with Mr. Johnson, but the
other counsel for the defense. Attorneys
J. J. Darlington. Ffank J. Hogan and
Daniel W. O'Donoghue, were not present.
i ne gra.nx.ing 01 tne oraer 01 consolidation.
it is said, cleans up the preliminary
steps for the trial as far as the prosecution
is concerned. The arraignment of
the bankers has been deferred until the
date scheduled for the trial.
Payt $9,500,000 for Oil Land.
TULSA, Okla.. April 28.?The largest
single sale of oil property ever made
in Oklahoma, according to available
records, was closed yesterday, when the
Sinclair Oil and Refining Company
placed $9,500,000 in a New York bank
to the credit of John T. Milliken and
associates. This sum represented the
balance due on the stipulated price of
$10,000,000 for the purchase of the
Milliken holdings in Oklahoma.
DAY IN C0NGBESS.
Senates
Met at noon.
Conferees on army reorganization
bill continued at work.
Resumed discussion of rural
credits bill.
Houses
Met at 11 a.m.
Discussed agricultural appropriation
bill, including a "rider"
embodying the/ bills for grain
grading, federal warehouses for
agricultural products and new
cotten future law.
Adopted conference report on
bill passed by both houses to (
double the number of cadets at
West Point. 1
Passed Senate bill limiting I 1 1
railway employes* hours of labor, r I
ANNUITIES URGED
FORJUCLERKS
Government Employes Advocate
a Pension System Before
the House Committee.
ARGUE FOR THE PASSAGE
OF THE TAVENNER BILL
Speakers Declare Superannuation of
Aged Civil Servants Would In
crease Efficiency of All.
Annuities for aged government clerks
and a complete system of pensions and
retirement ages wert strongly advocated
before the House committee on reform in
the civil service today by employes of
several government departments who appeared
to back the Tavenner bill. This
measure was introduced to set up a complete
machinery for the retirement and
pension of clerks who have reached the
age of sixty-five years, the annuities being
based on the length of service.
As has been expressed in several
hearings on civil service pension bills
recently, the main reason advanced to
the committee today was of a practical
nature. It was claimed that the government
would effect for itself an
economy by retiring the older clerks on
pensions.
Fully fifty government employes
crowded into the small hearing room.
One of the first to sneak was M. F.
O'Donoghue, representing the National i
Association of Civil Service Employes. |
He said that the word "annuity" is a ;
better term than "pension" in connec- :
tion with the present agitation.
Would Increase Efficiency.
"Service annuity would be the proper
name for it." he suggested, "and pension
is a misnomer. I do not believe this bill
would cost the government anything in
the end, as the government would substitute
young clerks in the places of the
older ones who are retired on annuities.
Germany has increased the life of its
citizens by 12 per cent through its system
of social insurance. No one can do
good work if he is worried constantly
about what will happen when he is old."
Our government has evidently forgotten
the human element in its conservation
plans."
He pointed out that many private concerns
have adopted a system of annuities
and retirements.
The principle of the bill was approved
by Lieut. Commander Tomb of the
Washington navy yard.
"A retirement system for old employes
is one of the best things in business."
he said. "Making superannuated
clerks work- is like using 'scrap machinery.
There are some details in this
bill which I believe could be eliminated
and left to the future, but the principle
is there? This bill provides for
the care of children, adopted children
and stepchildren and widows of pensioned
employes. I think we should
first get the old-age pension system
for employes and later take up the
question of pensions for the dependent
children, etc.
"Eliminate the side issues from this
brll, because the public may misjudge
the measure because of them. However.
no one could object to retiring
the faithful old employe."
Favors Retirement System.
Herbert D. Browne, chief of the bureau
of efficiency, told the committee
he favored a retirement and pension
system for civil service employes.
James L. Beattv, auditor for the War
Department, said it would be one of the
best things for the government to get
new blood into the service, but that it
would be unfair in the extreme to turn
out the older employes without adequate
provision for them.
He mentioned a case of fifteen clerks
between sixty-five and eighty, whose
work could be done by four younger
men, according to his estimates.
Thomas F. Flaherty, secretary-treasurer
of the National Federation of Post
Office Clerks, said that many clerks are
leaving the service now because it
makes no provision for old age. Representative
Farr of Pennsylvania spoke
in favor of the bill. He said the country
at large is in favor oVthe principle
involved, and that it would be not only
humane, but wise, from a business
standpoint.
John J. Devinev. nresident of the
Plate Printers* Union: H. M. McUarin.
president of the Federal Employes
Union, No. 150,007; Jacob W. Starr,,
former president of the Civil Serviat
Retirement Association; Representative
Charles of New York and Thomas
Nolan of Norfolk, Va? were among
those who advocated passage of the
Tavenner bill.
"1ST FOR FAIRBANKS"
James ?. Watson, Visiting Capital,
Says Indiana's Candidate Has
Bright Prospect.
James E. Watson of Indiana, who was
recently nominated as republican candidate
for the United States senator- ,
ship to succeed Senator Shively. is in
the city to argue a case before the Supreme
Court.
"Indiana is solidly behind Mr. Fairbanks
for the presidential nomination,"
said Mr. Watson to a Star reporter today.
"Moreover, I am convinced that a
large part of the western vote will be
for him in the convention.
"Of course, every one realizes that
at this time it is any man's fight. The
nii?<>nmo will he determined bv con
sultation of the unpledged delegates
when they reach Chicago and look the
field over.
"Mr. Fairbanks has the advantage of
being the first choice of a large number
of delegates, and the second choice in
some of the states which have favorite
Bons in the race.
"There is no question as to his fitness,
his character and ability. Those points
do not have to be argued, they are
known to all. I believe he has the
brightest prospect of any candidate in
the field."
MRS. DONALD McLEAN ILL.
Former D. A. S. Head at Baltimore
Hospital; Condition Critical.
BALTIMORE, Md., April. 21?The
condition of Mrs. Donald McLean,
rormer president general of the Daughters
of the American Revolution, who
Is critically ill at a hospital here, was
reported as being unchanged today. 4
> v
REfiELS OF DUBLIN
ARE BEING QUELLED
BY BRITISH FORCES
Disorders Occur Only in Isolated
Places, According
to Drogheda Advices.
QUIET NOW PREVAILS
IN MANY SECTIONS
Government Confident That Present
Uprising Will Be Successfully
Scotched. '
TWF. nTTTBRFATT TS TlFTRTTtTt
John Bedmond and Sir Edward Carson
Get Many Messages From
Irish Citizens in
Colonies.
LONDON, April 28?The disturbances
in Dublin are being
quelled effectually. Only in isolated
places is there any disorder,
according to dispatches from
Drogheda.
Individually, the members of
the cabinet express confidence
that the military forces on the
spot can deal successfully with
the Irish movement. On the po
litical side the position is much
more satisfactory, Mr. Redmond
and Sir Edward Carson being in
agreement that no political capital
is to be made out of the
troubles.
Bising Paasions Allayed.
Premier Asquith's promise, in behalf
of the government, of a searching investigation
into the origin of the movement
and his acceptance of full responsibility,
together with the speeches
of the Irish nationalist and unionist
leaders, expressing their desire to do
everything in their power to assist the
government, went far to allay the riling
passions of the house, which had
been shown in demands for the resignation
of Augustine Birrell, chief secretary
for Ireland; Baron Wimborne,
the lord lieutenant, and other official!,
alleged to be responsible in disregarding
warnings as to what was likely to
happen from the Sinn Fein agitation.
Sir Edward Carson offered to place hi!
Ulster volunteers at the disposition of
the government to help in suppressing
the rebellion.
Dublin is further from London than
Peking is from New York, so far as
communication for the general public
is concerned. No Irish newspapers have
reached here since the rising, and passenger
traffic has been for the raoit
pari suspended. The only information
comes through official channels.
England Not Fearful.
England naturally is extremely angious
about the Irish situation, but no
fears are expressed that the government
will not be able to suppress the
rising. The casualties thus far do not
exceed what might have occurred in
civil riots, but more severe fighting is
likely to follow before quiet is restored
in Dublin.
The extent of the seditious movement
is for the present a governmental secret,
except that it has spread to the
west and south. It was on the west
coast of Ireland that Sir Roger Casement's
expedition, consisting of a submarine
and a steamer, was intending to
land munitions when the steamer was
captured by a patrol boat.
In the north of Ireland, so far as is
known, there has been no disturbance,
a direct dispatch from Londonderry reporting
complete order.
Rebellion Is Scorned.
from Sydney, Melbourne. Adelaide
and other parts of the empire came a
flood of cablegrams to Mr. Redmond,
repudiating the action of the rebellious
elements in Dublin and expressing
scorn at what they have done "while
brave Irish soldiers are dying at the
front that their country may prosper."
Incidentally, the messages express
'the fullest confidence in Mr. Redmond
and the Irish parliamentary party.
Some of them were given out for publication
by the nationalist leader. One '
from Sydney. signed "MacCarthy/*
reads:
"The sectional pro-German rioting
disgusts home rulers here. Take heart.
Our race is with you and our gallant
countrymen at the front."
Viewed With Abhorrence.
From Melbourne came a message
signed "O'Connell." reading: "The
Irish in Victoria view with abhorrence
the futile and meaningless rebellion at
Dublin, and sympathize with the national
party in the cruel struggle
against the criminal efforts of an insignificant
minority to thwart the
noble object of peace and reconciliation
I which was almost accomplished.
"Such fanatics betray gross ingratitude
for the benefits Ireland has received
through long agitation and the
generosity of the Irish abroad, as well
as the valuable help rendered by the
nnrl nlhAr dpmnrrflciAS. RraVA
Irish soldiers are dying: at the front
that their country may prosper. Their
nobility of sacrifice should shame all
the wreckers of Iceland's future. The
guilt of the horrible bloodshed at Dublin
will be on the misguided leaders
of the outbreak."
Germans Expect Irish ? ?
to Gain No Success
in Present Uprising
LONDON. April 28?"The Cologne }
Gazette appears to expect no success
from the Sinn Fein revolt in Ireland."
Reuter's Amsterdam correspondent
telegraphs. "It cautions its readers not
to overestimate the effect which the
disturbances will have on the political
and military situation in England, and
points out the strength of the British
forces in Ireland."
The Gazette continues:
"One must ask, however, at a me?
I -2
