That Country Home
*o to It via The T-D Want Ad
Page, For Sale or to Let
To Buy or Sell
Remember the Easiest Way,T-D
Want Ads?Randolph One
5th YEAR
VOLCMIC CO
?\ L'.MI) 10 It UN
RICHMOND, VA., FRIDAY, APRIL 28, 1916. ?TWELVE PAGES
w
??(:vn,i:u ?UNSETTLED
, PRICE, TWO CENTS.
? H II IV ? W II 1 I II 1m 1/
10 VISIT KAISER
AT HEADQUARTERS
.mbassador leaves Berlin
to Be Received by Ger
man Emperor.
IS INTEREST IN CASE
HOPEFUL INDICATION!
lay Supplement Reply With1
Personal Communication to
President Wilson.
NBWER EXPECTED SHORTLY
'elrRi-Rms of Protest to Congress
Will llavn No KfTirct oil
Executive.
BERUN. April 27 <by wireless).? :
nines W Gerard, the American atnbas- i
<dor to Cicrmany, ivlll leave Berlin to
Ight for i>rman army hf.adduarters.
?here he will bo received by the Ger
mn Emperor.
Dr. von Rethmann-Hollwcg, the Oer->
tan Imperial Chancellor, who up to
he present ban l?e?*n a4 the army head
uarters, Is expected to rotne to Her-'
In to-morrow to proparo Germany's
ttr.wer to the latent American note.
Foreign Minister von Jagow called
?n Amba8Rador Gerard at the Atnerl
an embassy at 10 o'clock this morning
or a talk on the general situation, and
leelared his Intention of returning
ater In the <lay.
?0 Fl HTIIKIt AflVICES
OX SVIIMARI.VE I*SI 13
? WASH INGTt ?N. April 27.?Secretary
..anting said late to-day that he had
jo further advices from Berlin regard
UK the submarine Issii", and that the
tituallon remained uncharged. The
Jerrnan embassy also was salU to he
without Information
Announcement In prev.? dispatches
.'rom ncrlln that Ambassador Gerard
would ionf"r with Kmperor William
was regarded by officials as significant
jfTlclal tnforination on the subject was
lacking, but the opinion was expressed
that the Kmperor might have In mini
fuppl ementlng Germany's reply to the
American note demanding the Immedi
ate abandonment of present methods of
euhmarlne warfare with a personal
communication to 1 'resident Wilson.
Ambassador Gerard In visiting the
Kmperor Is not acting under instruc. |
Hons from Washington. Consequently/
officials assumed that the visit is at
the Emperor's invitation.
In both oflicial and diplomatic quar |
tern tho injection of the Emperor's per
sonallty Into the situation was re-i
jgnrded as a hopeful indication.
President Wilson expects to receive
the German reply within the next few
days. It became known to-day, although
th? bants for hl:? expectation was not
revealed. Up to the present ho is on I
tlrely without definite information o
the German government's intentions
wrr.ii not he iMM.trK\fi;n
IIV TKI.MCRAMS OV PROfES!
The President, officials' declare, will
not be influenced in ih? slightest by
the thousands of telegr-irns sent to
Senators nnd Representatives urcini? \
them not to approve any nation which
might lead to war. Should any serious
effort be made to embarrass him. It
was declared authoritatively, he again
will go before Congress and demand
that members go on record for or
against his policy.
It was disclosed at the State Depart I
went that the memorandum In regard
to the armament of merchant ship's
made public yesterday, had been sen j
to all American embassies and lega? ]
tions In Europe for their guidance
.Copies were cabled ' to Ambassadors
Gerard. ?t Berlin, and Page, at L.ondonk j
None of the American diplomatic rep
resentatives" has heen instructed to
present the memorandum to tho gov- ;
ornment to which he is accredited, the!
document having been handed to for
eign diplomatic representatives hero.
Secretary l.unsing announced that ha
had received the British government's
copy of the confidential instructions to;
captains of British merchant shlrfs
now enld to be in operation. Tho ?ec
retary has not yet compared tho Brit
ish version of tho instructions with the
German version, which wns submitted
with the German declaration of Inten ,
tlon to regard as warships enemy mer
chant ships carrying armament.
Tt wan understood that some state-;
men! might bo issued later hy the State
Department for tho guidance of Ameri
cans traveling at sea.
TO TIGHTEN "DRY" LAWS
Kill ?n Prohibit Issuiug of Federal
I.lqnor Mcenwrn fn Communities Af
fected by State Prohibition Limth.
f Special to The TImns-Dlspatch.]
WASHINGTON*. April 27.?A bill to
prohibit tho United States Commis
sioner of Internal Kevonue from issuing
government liquor licenses In communi
ties made dry by the operation of State
prohibition laws was introduced In tho
House to-day by Representative
"Cyclone" Davis, of Texas. The legis
lation. If enacted Into law, will affect
tho dry States of Virginia, West Vir
ginia and tho dry counticB of Maryland,
us undor the Davis plan a "bootlegger"
when deprived of his Federal licence
would ha violating tho Federal as well
no State laws against the sale of liquor.
There has for years been a good deal
of complaint of the Federal govern
ment Issuing liquor licenses to persons
In "dry" communities. The Stato of
flolals claim this practice hinders them
In enforcing the Stat* or county pro
hibition law*
J
L
For Early Retirement
of American Troops
CtllflVAIIliA, April iT.?General
Obrrgon, SllnlNlrr of War or the do
fo?-?o KOv*rninml, -rrlll Mibn.U hla
Akturnnce* to Major (.cnrralit Scott
und 1'un.fon nt thflr a.tnlng con
frrcnri' in Junrw. or 101 1'uho tlmt
f.'ic C arran/.u fori:** are noiv fullr
m.le to e?Pe vrlth tile Villa handlt'a
o|ifr?tlnit In Southrrn Chlhunlittn.
II?- naltl l?o hoped to arriincK for nn
cn.iy ri'tlrcmrnl of the American
troops.
LEAVE TO MEET 0BB!
Scott, and Funs (on on Way to El
Paso for Conference With Mex
irun War Minister.
MAY TARE PLACE IX JUAREZ
?Not Believed That Either Partv Has
Plenary Powers?Will Communi
cate W ith Respertlve Governments
Concerning Suggestions Made.
SAN ANTONIO. TEX..?April 27.-J
Mnjor-General Scott was on his way1
to K1 Paso to-night to dlKcuns with
General Obregon, Carranxa's Minister
of War, questions Incident to the pres-'
enee of American troops In Mexico.'
Accompanied b y Major-General Fun-!
ston. General Scott loft her* to-ni(?ht, ?
ami |3 expected to arrive at 151 Pasof
late to-morrow. With thorn went their
respective aids.
.lust what Generals Scott ami Fun.'
ston are going to discuss with Gen-!
oral Obregon and what preparations!
they will make remained unknown'
here. It was assumed that General Ob
regon has received special instructions
from his government to guide him In
the conference. and little credence was
given the unofficial report that General
Obregon was prepared to demand that
a definite time be 6et for tho with 1
drawal of the American troops.
Generals Scott and Funston antlcl
patei! that a series of conferencea would*
l>e necessary to adjust matters, and
that the intervals between them migh
be long enough for both General Ob |
regon ?nd General Scott to communl |
oate with their governments regard 1
Ing suggest ions made. General Scot '
has not plenary powers, and It Is no j
believed that General Obregon has au '
thority to enter into any agreement.
It was believed here that the confer-'
enoe probably would take place in
J uarez.
Reports from General Pershing to-,
day were of a routine character. - ? <
AXOTHEIl I.tri.t. ItKSl'LTS
l.N MUXICA.V SITUATION
WASHINGTON, April 27,-Outside the!
possible activities of General Pershingt
cavalry patrols, there was another lul
to-day In the Mexican situation. g?mi
feral Obregon and .other Carranza of I
Wf-r? nearing the border, while
Generals Scott and Funston were pre
paring to meet the Mexican officers in'
Juarez or El Paso in tho conference
upon which much may depend
Neither In Washington nor on the
border was there any definite informa
tion as to when the conference would
begin. General Obregon should rea^h1
JuareK to-morrow nlcht. and the Ameri-'
can officers also will be at the meeting!
place by that time.
Pending tho result of this attempt
c. .ecure the co-operation of the Car- ;
hrl"^ I?rCeS| ln th? caj??*'en against,
\v?hi Northern Mexico, the j
\ ashIngton government will take no
further important steps, either military
or diplomatic. No steps are being
a <<-n at tho State Department toward 1
Preparing a ,*Ply t-1 General Cai.. :
ranzas note suggesting a withdrawal j
, ,th,e American troops, and none will ;
taken until the conference concludes
Navy and State Department advices I
1 various parts of Mexico reported 1
continued quiet to-day.
A complaint that the four new aero-1
Planes .sent to the border were Inade
quate came from General Funstcn. He !
said the ninety horsepower engines I
were too light for tho work required. 1
Secretary Baker replied that the Tour'
had been sent only because they were 1
the only type available for Immediate I
delivery. four additional 160-horso
power machines are on their way to the
border and eight others arc to follow
These are the most powerful aeroplane
engines yet developed in tho United
States.
Reports to the department showod
the troops in Mexico to be fully pro
visioned and equipped for & month at
least. Lines of communication are so
"?ell established that officers hero feel
no uneasiness, on tho supply question.
KKHKI.S DEI'TjATKI) WITH
I.OSS OF .">00 MEN
-MEXICO CITY, April 27.-In a battle
between G,000 rebels and the Constitu?
tionalist army just north of tho city
o Oaxaca, the rebels wore dofeated
with a loss of 600 men killed and many
wounded or taken prisoner, according
to a message received to-night at the
War Department from Oaxaca.
MILLIONS FOR EDUCATION
flourd of Education of Southern Metho
dist Church Wants to Iltilnc 50.00(1,.
.000 by Popular Subscription.
NASHVILLE, TENN., April 27.?
Seeking to place all colleges and
schools of tho denomination on a solid
basis financially, the board of educa
tion of the Southern Methodist Church,
beforo adjourning here late yosterday!
accepted a plan to raise $9,000,000 by
popular subscription among tho chur-h
membership for education. A million
eat h will go to the Southern Univer
sity, at Dallas, Tex., and limory Uni
versity, at Atlanta. OtheV Institutions
of the church inftlufle thirteon A-grade
colleges, nine D-grade colleges, eight
Junior colleges, twenty-three unclassi
fied colleges and fifteen academies.
SOUTHERN WRECK I
COSTS TWO LIVES.
|
Mr. and Mrs. W. D. Piper In- j
stantly Killed by Car Top- j
pling Oyer on Them.
!
WERE WALKING BESIDE TRACK
Two Engines Turn Turtle When
Fast Train Splits Switch
at Fabers.
! Special to The Tlmes-Dlepateh.1
CHARI.OTTESVIL.L.B, VA.. April 27.
?The Southr.ru Hallway's fast pas
senger train. No. 38. northbound, from
New Orleans to New York, due here
at 7:55 o'clock to-night, was derail
ed at "Fabers, Nelson County, twenty
two miles south of Charlottesville at
7:05 o'clock. Both engines and a bag- |
gacre oar were overturned.
Mr. and Mrs. IV. D. Piper, of Fabers,
who wero walking alcx^r a sidetrack,
were caught under an overturned ex
press oar and Instantly killed. Mr.
J'lper. who was a native of Westvlew,
Augusta County, was a farmer and
acting postmaster at Fabers. He was
formerly engaged in the mercantile
business and for over fifteen years was
the Southern's agent at Fabers, hav
ing recently resigned his position. His
wife was a Miss Hamner, of Nelson
County. She was twice married, her
first husband being James Bo wen.
A relief train, carrying two physi
cians. left here at 8 o'clock for the
scene of the wreck and returned at 11
o'clock. Three, mtmhers of the train
crew were Injured, but only on? was
brought to a local hospital for treat
ment.
,1. W. Keith, of Monroe, engineer on
the front engine, sustained a severe
concussion of the right side of the
chest and two abrasions, one on the
riEht forearm and the other on the
right leg.
Fireman Kdward Trumble, of Alex
andria. had his neck and hands burned
and the muscles strained on the right
side of his chest.
F.nglneer C. R. Craddock, of Alexan
dria, and his fireman. P. P.. Bradshaw,
also of Alexandria were slightly hurt. |
All three of these employees reached j
here on the relief train and left at
once for their homes.
The accident Is believed to have been
due to a split switch. The front en
gine passed over the switch on the
it l?i.?\ while the ?s?*.-ond entered the
?-i<*i?iir. Both engines toppled over, as
did the baggage car. Two express cars
and the day coach left the rails, but did
not overturn.
Tli'* bodies of Mr. and Mrs. Piper
wero brought h?r?? on- tho^cJlef train
and turned over to a local undertaker.
Wrecking crews from Charlottesville |
and Monroe reached Fabors promptly, i
hut the main line probably will be
blocked most of the night. South
bound trains are being detoured over
the Chesapeake and Ohio.
CALL TO DR. CALDWELL
Will Be Tendered Position of President
or Auntin Presbyterian Theo
logical Seminary.
{Special to The Times-Dispatch.]
AUSTIN. TEX., April 27.?Dr. Eugene
Caldwell, of Richmond, will be ten
dered the position of president of the
Austin Presbyterian Theological Semi
nary, it Is announced here, succeeding
Dr. R E. Vinson, recently elected
president of the University of Texns.
Dr. Caldwell was formerly a teacher
in the seminary here, and Is well and
favorably knotvn ns a minister and
educator. It Is not known here if
Dr. Caldwell will accept the presidency
of the Institution.
Dr. Caldwell is a member of the
faculty of the Union Theological Semi
nary, this city, and is one of the most
prominent men in the Southern Presby
terian Church. He took a very active
part in the recent simultaneous evan
gelistic campaign in Richmond, and
during the two weeks of its progress
preached in a great many of the local
churches. It is considered certain that
strong efforts will be made to hold him
in Ills present position.
FUNERAL OF HARRY S. STOKES
Clilef Counsel for XiiKlivllle TnxpnyerM,
Victim of C. C. 'Praline, to Be
nuried In Memphis.
NASHVILUE. TEN'N'., April 27.?Fu
neral services were held late to-day
for Harry S. Stokes, chief counsel for
the taxpayers in the City Hall inves
tigation, who was shot yesterday by
Charles Clay Trabue, special counsel
for the city of Nashville. A large num
ber attended the funeral. The body
was take late to-night to Memphis
where it will be placed in a vault.
No new evidence had been gathered
to-night by the city or county authori- :
ties, but Attorney-General Anderson. |
Assistant Attorney-General Moore and j
Chief of Police Barthell hold frerjuont
conferences relative to plans for the j
prosecution of Mr. Trabue.
ANOTHER NOTE TO BRITAIN
United States Demand* Release of Ana
trlnn*. (?ermniiH nnd Turk* Taken
From American Steamer.
WASHINGTON. April 27.?Secretary
Lansing announced to-day that the
United States had sont another note
to Groat Britain demanding the releaso
of the thirty-eight Austrlatis, Germans
and Turks taken from tho American
steamship China by a British cruiser
off Shanghai. Tho note was dispatched
yesterday, and will be given out for
publication later.
Great Britain contends that the men
wore engaged In intrigues and plots
against tho British government, and,,
having boon discovered, were fleeing to
Manila, whero thoy Intended to con
tinue their efforts, whtoh would have
embarrassed the neutrality of the
United States,
. . . ? V
MARTIAL LAW DECLARED
THROUGHOUT IRELAND
Lord Wlmborne lord nontenant of Ireland, Inspecting the Royal Inniskilllng Fusiliers at Dublin Castle.
Telegrams of Protest
Promoted by American
Embargo Conference
Senator Husting Denounces
Propaganda as Plot to
Deceive Congress as to
Public Opinion.
WASHINGTON*. April 27.?American !
Embargo Conference, an organization]
with headquarters in Chicago, was
charged by Senator Husting to-day
with promoting a plot to deceive Coil
press as to public opinion by originat
ing and paying for the propaganda;
which for several day? has deluged
Senators and Representatives with
many thousands of telegrams protest
ing against any break between the
l/nited States and Germany.
The Wisconsin Senator read in the'
Senate copies of letters sent to his j
constituents containing four form tele-!
grams of protest* like those received
' by Congressmen and saying the ICm
bargo Conference would pay telegraph
; tolls on all such messages forwarded.
He charged that the forms had been
prepared in advance, and that the con
i ference had studiously awaited an op
portunity to launch Its propaganda
! when it might do most to convince the
J country that the President and C011-!
' gress were bent upon war.
; WISCONSIN SENATOR
HEADS COPV OF I.GITKRj
| The text of the letter follows:
| "Dear Sir: Feeling confident that, as'
lone of the patriotic citizens of the!
i United States, you are anxious to see'
I this country held out of the present!
terrible war in Europe, we are making!
this extraordinary appeal to you be-?
cause wo know from the most posl-i
tive Information that Is possible to bo|
obtained at this time that the sltua-?
tlon warrants it. I
"We cannot find words strong
enough to tell you of the gravity of
tho situation, and we assure you in
the most earnest manner possible that'
j practically the only thing that will!
[keep this country from becoming in-,
| volved is an. Immediate and great ex
| pression of tho real sentiment of the.
' people, who want peace.
| "We also most solemnly assure to;
I you that it is too late to mail an ex-i
j pression of this sentiment to Wash*
| ington. It must bo telegraphed. Wo
| have prepared night-letter telegrams
[ that are ready to bo signed by tho
| voters. At the top of these sheots
we askerl that you hold these sheets;
until we gavo you notice to telegraph.;
Now -we ask that you have tho nighlj
letters signed as rapidly as possible,
and that you send them from the tele
graph ofllco without a moment's delay.
"Don't wait for any further word
from UB. Conditions are now even
moro serioun, and the messages should
to sent at once. They shall all he In
Washington by Wednesday.
"Wo beg that you will realize how
grave we consider the situation to be
when we assure you that we are to
pay for all of tho messages. All that
we urge you to do Is to got the tele
grams signed and send them at once
Then send I he bills to us. and a check
will be mailod to you Immediately.
We know what you have done in the
pant to help keep thts country In a
neutral position,, and we know that at
thIf. the most critical time In the dip-]
lomatlc negotiations, you will not fall!
to act for us. Only believe that our i
Information Ib of tho best anil send ?
tho telegrams now. Please let us de- i
pend upon you In this crisis.
"Thanking you for what we know,
you will do. and repenting the assur-:
that we will pay for all expense,
I incurred, we beg to remain,
"Most earnestly yours.
"THE AMERICAN j
EMBARGO CONFERENCE." i
SHERMAN A\n POMEREN'E
DKNOLNCE PROPAGANDA, i
Senators Sherman, of Illinois, and,
i Pomoren?\ of Ohio, also denounced the'
propaganda, but Senator Works, of]
'California, criticized Senator Hustingi
for stirring up discussion of the sub-i
jert. Although Senator Iltistlng advo
cated a congressional Investigation of
the conference, he introduced no reso
lution. and the debate ended without,
action. I
Senator Hustlng asserted that the
same organization had instituted a;
propaganda to support a resolution j
placing an embargo on munitions ofi
war to Europe. Me put Into the record'
a letter hearing the names of Colonel]
Jasper Tucker Darling, president; W. i
R. MacDonald, general manager, and
J. H. Forrest, as ofllcers of the Embargo
Conference.
Senator Sherman said the telegrams
of protest did not represent either the
Initiative or the volition of the persons
signing them, but. In his opinion, tho
"activities of the American Embargo <
Conference, which seeks to close tho
neutral markets of our country against |
the belligerents in the European war.":
During the day Senator Rusting ]
called at the State Department and:
discussed the question with Secretary j
T.anslng. who expressed his gratlflca-j
lion at. having the source of tho tele-!
grains made public. I
FI.OOI) ROES XOT ESCAPE
DELUGE OF TEI.Ef.lt A MS
(Special to The Times-Dispatch. 1 !
WASHINGTON, April 27.-,? Represen
tative If. D. Flood, of Virginia, chair-!
man of the Mouse Committee on For
eign Affairs, has not escaped the deluge j
of antiwar telegrams now Hooding tho!
Capitol. The Virginian has rocelved no
less than 1,000 telegrams protesting
against a diplomatic rupture with Gor-i
many. Not one of them Is from Mr. i
Flood's district in Virginia. All arei
from tho Western citfes, where tlio1
German population Is large.
Representative Carter Glass, of Vlr-i
glnia, has received some telegrams frwnj
his district protesting against Presl-j
dent Wilson's attitude on the German;
submarine question. Mi\ Glass replied'
to these with the statement that hoi
and hin sons are ready to give their
lives for the maintenance of American
honor.
Reaignaiton Accepted.
WASHINGTON, April 27.~-Formal
announcement was made at the White
House to-day that Henry Morgenthau,
American ambassador to Turkey, h-id
resigned, and that his resignation had ;
been accepted. Ah rani I. Elk us, a New j
York lawyer, probably will succeed
him.
Mr. Morgenthau will do organisation
work for the Demooratlo party In the
presidential campaign.
ABRAM WARWICK TRIES j
TO TAKE HIS 01 LIFE!
Prominent Clnbmnn Is Overpowered J
by Policemen and Taken
to" <'Ity vfail. ' j
IS SUSPECTED OF INSAXITF!
Becomes Violent at His Apartment j
at the Hanover?Condition Is Re- j
ported Early This Morniug as Be
ing; Much Improved.
Abram Warwick, assistant secretary
and. general manager of the Virginia
State Fair Association, secretary-treas-1
virer of the Country Club of Virginia
and treasurer of the Commonwealth;
Club, is being held in the City Jail
following an attempt at suicido early
yesterday morning in his home at the
Hanover "Apartments, 100 West Frank-]
tin .Street. Mr. Warwick, who Is fifty,
years old, Is widely known, and the
news of his reported temporary do - J
raugement was received with surprise
throughout the city yesterday.
Evidences of Mr. Warwick's eondl-j
lion were noticed early Wednesday
night by members of his family, find
everything possible was done for him.
However, he became violent toward!
the early morning hours, and Dr.
Frank llobson was summoned hurriedly
to the apartment. The physician was
Informed that Mr. Warwick had become
unmanageable, ami was endeavoring to
visit bodily harm upon himself.
{.'liable to overpower Mr. Warwick, j
the family called upon the physician,i
and he, realizing that it would he
some time before ho could reach the
apartment, asked assistance of the
police. The physician requested that
officers he sent to the apartment, so
that thoy might control Mr. Warwick'
until his arrival.
Sergeant Tyler, of the .Second Pre
cinct Station, at once dispatched Po
licemen Tiller. timing and Clarke to
the apartment, and they arrived Inj
time to provent. the 111 man from in-1
Jurlng himself. Heforfi they had
arrived, though. Mr. Warwick had sev-j
eral times attempted to secure weapons
with which he might have done serious(
harm, and even after tho officers
reached the house he was restrained
only after they had exerted fori o to
quiet him. |
There being no Indication of an lm-1
mediate change In Mr. Warwick's con-1
ditlon after the arrival of physicians, j
It was deemed advisable to send him
to some place where ii would he possl-!
ble to watch him constantly, and where]
ho would he unable to harm himself.
A warrant, charging him with being
suspected of insanity, accordingly was
sworn out, and tho officers conveyed
him to the City Jail at once.
Karl.v this morning he was reported
as having spent a quiet day and as
being much Improved. So marked was
the improvement shown in his condi-l
Hon yesterday, it in said, that a com-i
mission of lunacy hardly will sit in;
his case. Jt was predicted at the. Jail!
early this morning that Mr. Warwiqk'
probably would bo released this after-i
noon, or certainly within tho next fowi
days, if his condition showed further
improvement.
Mr. Warwick Is one of the best
known business men of the city. Ho
lias a wide circle of friends and
acquaintances in social, business and
fraternal circles, lie succeeded Mark;
It. l.loyd as general manager of the'
\ ii'Kltiia State Fair Association several
years ago, and for a long time hau
been treasurer of the Commonwealth
Club.. During the lant several years
he has nerved as aecretAry-tre&surer of
the Country Club ot Vlrrfnia ?a VeU.
REVOLT SPREADS
FROM DUBLIN TO
OTHER SECTIONS
Sir John Maxwell Placcd in
Full Charge of Sit
uation.
REBELS STILL HOLD SOME
PORTIONS OF CAPITAL
Other Troops Being Dispatched
to Help Those on Scene
Cope With Situation.
REASSURING NEWS TO HOUSE
Searching Investigation Into Cause
of Disturbance Promised
by Asqulth.
LONDON, April 27.?Martial law has
been declared throughout Ireland. and
Major-General Sir John Maxwell, who
until recently commanded the troops
In Egypt, has gone over to take charge,
the Irish executive officials having
placed themselves under his Instruc
tions. He has been given full dis
ciplinary powers for the extension ?>?
the operations and the suppression of
the rebellion.
The revolt, which broke out in Dub
lin on Monday, has spread to other
parts of Ireland, chiefly to the west
and south. This Information, together
with the fact that the rebels are still
In possession of parts of the city of
Dublin, was given to the nation by the
ministers in Parliament to-day.
Piemicr Asquith, who yesterday had
given reassuring news respecting the
j situation in Ireland, caused something
of a flutter of anxiety by his statement
I to-day In the House of Commons when
he announced the spread of the move
ment to other parts of Ireland, the re
tention by the revolutionary forces of
certain parts of Dublin and the fact
that fighting was still going on in the
streets.
The government, the Prime Minister
! further announced, was convinced that
! the forces now |n Ireland and those
| proceeding there were adequate to deal
I with the situation.
I HKDJIO.M) AM) CAItSOiV
KXriJESS detestation
[ John lledniond, leader of the Irish
I Nationalist party, and Sir Ed-ward
| (.arson, the Unionist leader, strong op.
: ponents on the home-rule question, ex
| pressed their detestation of tho rising
and. as a consequence. Premier Asquith
| said ho did not think it necessary to
hold a session of tho house on Mon
j day, as had been 8UKgeatC(1 by on<(
| tho members "to make clear to the
world what true amount of support
jwas behind the movement."
I At tho rising of the house, the Home
j.eciotary, Herbert Samuel, was able to
announce the receipt of information
that over "considerable dlstriots" of
Ireland calm prevailed, and to repeat
ho Prime Minister's promise that, con
sistent with the military exigencies,
all the news available would be pub.,
1 rranfftrt a??d th* noceB9arJr facilities
, trantod tho newspaper men.
Individually, tho ministers express
confidence that the military forces oj
| the spot can deal with tho movement.
On the political side tho position is
? satisfactory, Mr. Redmond
j ?"''Sir id ward Carson being in agreo
lent that no political capital is to be
ado out of the troubles.
Premier Asqulth s promise, In behall
vLhJ ,TV?rnmd,,t- of Sl searching ln.
estimation into the origin of tho move
and his acceptanoe of fuM ro
!sl,u,,slb|l.ty togothor with the speeches
I lead or?? N^lonalist and Unionist
, leaders, expressing their desiro to do
I ^yerything in their power to assist the
government, went far to allay the ris!
! Passions of tho house, which had
i ? > shown in demands for the reslir>
11he lor/i M I!'c,nnd: Raron Wimborne.
ilh'ired ? 1" ? and other officials,
alltged to ho responsible in disrogard
, warnings as to what was likely
Mon str r?m l!,e 9,nn agita
| . Su l-.dwnrd Carson offered to
P ace his Ulster volunteers at the dispo
sition of tho government to help jn
suppressing the rebellion.
, OPPOSITION' IIAISED
? O APJOl lt\MI0\'i' TO TI'ESDAT
; That a hopeful feeling prevailed In
| arllament was seen in tho fact that no
, opposition was raised to the adjourn
ment of the house to Tuesday, after
j the ministers had promised that this
not interfere with tho issue of
any available news.
' tl.Vn bliif,J.S 'urthcr fr(,,n London to-day
I than I eking is from Now Tork. so
[far an communication with the general
Pi'hlb. is concerned. Xo Irish news
papers have roached hore since the
uprising and passenger traffic has been
! for the most part, suspended. Th.
only information comes through offl.
cial channels.
England naturally In extremely anx
ious about the Irish situation, but no
fears are expressed that the govern
ment will not suppress the uprls
"ig. The casualties so far (If> not
< eeil what might have occurred in civil
nuts h?t more severe lighting Is llkMy
to tallow beforo quiet in restored in
Dublin.
The extent of the seditions more*
ment is for the present % ?wernrosntnl
I mot* thmmus
