ALB1U QUERQUE MORNING JOURNAL.
CITY
CITY
EDITION
EDITION
VKNTII YEAH.
MARTIAL LI IS
IECLUEI FOR
III OF IIEUIli
eOLTSPREllE
ALBUQUERQUE, NEW MEXICO, FRIDAY, APRIL 28, 19167
Fighting Continues in Streets
of Dublin and Situation Is
Admitted by Asquith to Be
Exceedingly Grave,
REDMOND DENOUNCES
THE REVOLUTIONISTS
Government Expects to Sup
press Rebellion With Ruth-
less Severity; Officials Con
demned for Carelessness,
THE WEATHER
WEATIIEK JT)UECAST.
Denver. April 27. New Mexico:
Friday and Saturday generally fair,
warmer Friday and in east portion
Saturday,
E
HP IN SENDS
CONFERENCE OF
LOCAL WEATIIEJt IlEPOHT.
ror twenty-four hour, ending at
B p. m. yesterday,
-Maximum temperature, 71 'degree;
minimum, 38 degrees; range, 33 de
gress; temperature at 6 . m., 7 de
grees; northwest wind; clear.
CITY UAVK CI ,KA RINGS.
Yesterday
JUti.135.4T.
the present n government secret, ex
cept that It has spread to the west
and south. It is on tho west coast
of Ireland that Sir llORer Casement's
expedition consisting of a submarine
and a steamer was intending; to land
munitions when the steuuier was cap
tured by a patrol boat.
In the north of Ireland, so fur as Is
known, there has been no disturbance,
a direct dispatch from Londonderry
report Uik complete order.
Most Irishmen Loyal,
From Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide
and other parts of the empire cume
a flood of cablegrams to Mr. Red
mond today repudiating the action of
the rebellious elements in Dublin and
expressing scorn at what they had
done, "while brave Irish soldiers are
dying at the front that their country
may prosper."
incidentally the messages express
the fullest confidence In Mr. Hedmond
and the Irish parliamentary party.
Some of them were given out for
publication by the nationalist leader.
one from Sydney slKned "MacCarthy,"
reaus:
"The sectional pro-German rioting
disgusts homo rulers here. Take
heart. Our race Is with you and our
gallant countrymen at the front."
From -Melbourne came a message
signed "OConnell," reading:
Repudiate Rt-IMillon,
FOR AMERICAN
AMBASSADOR TO
DISCUSS PROBLEM
It Is Believed Kaiser May Sup
plement Official Commimi
cation With Personal Letter
to President,
WILSON NOT INFLUENCED
BY FLOOD OF TELEGRAMS
Whether Diplomatic Relations
Continue or Not Depends
Entirely Upon Reply to
Washington Ultimatum,
IBV MOtNIha JOURNAL SPteiAt. LIAttO WIN!)
Washington, April 2". Secretary
I.nnRing said late today that he had
no further advice from Berlin re
garding the submarine Issue and the
situation remained unchanged. The
German embassy also was said to be
without information.
Announcement in press dispatches
from Uerlin that Ambassador Gerard
would confer . with Emperor William
IIY MO.NIM JOUKNAt (PtCIAk LIAWa Wilt)
London, April 27 (10:17 p. m.)
Martial law has been declared
ihrouuhuut Ireland and MaJ. Gen. Sir
John Maxwell, who until recently
commanded the troop in Ksrypt, has
cone over to take charge, the Irish
executive officials having placed
themselves under his Instructions. He
has been Riven full disciplinary pow
rri for the extension of the operations
und the suppression of the rebellion.
The revolt which broke out In Dub
lln .Monday has spread to other parts
of Ireland, chiefly to the west und
south. This information together
with the fact that the rebels mill are
In possession of parts of the city of
Dublin, was given to the fcin.tlon 1y
the ministers in parliament today.
Premier Asquith, who yesterday ingratitude for the benefits Ireland ment of present methods of suhma.
mo inivu uiiuuKii 10111; ay i l.i 1 101 1 t line wmirtie Willi u i'vinuuui t vni-
and the generosity of the Irish j niunkatfon of some kind to President
abroad, lis well as the valuable help j Wilson.
rendered ty the firltish and other Take, JIO(K'fiil View.
democracies. Hruvu Irish soldiers are J Ambassador Gerard. In visiting the
dying at the front that their country ! emperor, is not acting under instrue-
noun li'MH (naiiHrf,u'ii, vi'"0H'1 111
"The Jrlih in Victoria view with I
abhorrence the futile and meaningless ed bv official as being significant,
rebellion at Dublin, and sympathize ( official information u the subject
with the national party in the cruel was lacking, but the opinion was
struggle against the criminal efforts freelv expressed that it was not at
of an Insignificant minority to thwart jail unlikely that the emperor might
the noble object of peace and rerun- ; have In mind supplementing Ger
ciliatlon which whs almost aecom-j many's reply to the American notw
pbshed. Such fanatits betray gross ! demanding the immediate abandon
had given reassuring news respecting
the situation in Ireland, caused some
thing of a flutter of excitement today
in the house of commons when he an
nounced the spread of the movement
to other parts of Ireland, the reten
tion hy the revolutionary forces of
certain parts of Dublin, and the fact
that fighting was still going on in the
streets.
The government, the prime minis
ter announced, was convinced that the
forces now in Ireland and those iro
ceeding there were adequate to deal
with the situation.
itedmond Is loyal.
John Itedmond, leader of the Irish
nationalist party, and Sir Edward
I'aiwm, the unionist leader, strong op
ponents on the home rule question,
'pressed their detestation of the ris
ir.g, mill, att. a, ounsenquqonec. Pre
mier Awiuith said he did not think it
necessary to hold a session of the
house Monday, as had been suggested
by one of the members, "to make
clir to ()le world what true amount
of support was behind the move
ment" ,
At the rising of the house, the
hone secretary, Herbert Samuel, was
able to announce the receipt of infor
mntiou that over "considerable dis
tricts of Ireland calm prevailed," and
to repeat the prime minister's prom
ise that, consistent with the military
exigencies, all the new available
would ho published and the necessary!
pennies granted to newspaper men.
innivmnaiiy the ministers express
'umiuenre that the military forces on
the spot can deal successfully with
'he movement. On the political side
the position Is much more satisfac
tory, i r. itedmond and Sir Edward
f'arson being in agreement that no
Political capital Is to be made out of
the troubles.
Parliament Ik-assured.
Premier Asuuith's promise In be
half of the government for a search
ing Investigation into the movement
ml hi,, acceptance of full responsi
bly together with the speeches of
J Irish nationalist and unionist
leaders expressing their desire to do
everything in their power to assist
tn sovernment, went far to allay the
"'ng passions of the house, which
naa been shown in demands for the
nwgnation of Augustine Uirrell, chief
secretary for Ireland; Baron Wim
,?!,', thp l,,rd """tenant, and other
rii.I leKed tn ' responsible In
hi) i " warnings as to what was
?l o hal'I,,,n from the Sinn Fein
tuition sir Kdward Carson offer
ee to place his ristcr volunteers at
th' disposal of the government to
ei!' ln ""pressing the rebellion.
1 " hn',,,f"l feeling prevailed in
wnament was seen In the fact that
no opposition was raised to the ad
ornment 0f the house to Tuesdny
le ministers had promised that
may prosper, Their nobtlltv or sac
rifice should shame all the wreckers
of Ireland's future. The guilt of the
horritie bloodshed at Dublin will he
on the misguided leaders of the outbreak."
AMERICANS ARID
ninniini Rim
ui k mini u km
uniiiinivLn iwii.ii
liriDIVIIIPIICU!
YLHIIU m ULHdll
GENERALS GIVES
RISE TD HOPE OF
PEACE IN MEXICO
Officials in Juarez and El Paso
Think. Intervention May Be
Averted as Result of Meet
ing Soon to Take Place,
WILL NOT UNDERTAKE
TO PREDICT RESULT
Leaders Not Expected to Get
Together Before Saturday;
Obregon May Insist Thai
Junta Take Place in Mexico,
Dally by Carrier or Mall,
Month, Mingle) triples, 6q
Arrivals
t'lClll Mm lemoei i. .......
brought the news that Ciiiini Cruel..
Kd soiiMf Cel. Hosaiin Garcia
a humtit operating In th Suhauiipa
district of Solium, had been captured
by the forces of Ma). Jesus llurtado.
de facto commander of the &ihuurlpa
gHtrlson, and executed on Tuesday at
Moett'Situna. lie as olliclallv elt.irged
with stetiling catll', the arrivals say.
Kehlnd the execution lies the .-lory
of a deadly feud between the llurtado
un,l tlaicla families. Heveral months
"Ho the elder Gar, la captur d the
young son of Major llurtado and exe
cuted him. It Is alleged. The cxeeu.
tlon of CniYln's son was a retaliatory
measure.
SUES FOR LOSS OF
HUSBAND ON LUSITANIA
lr monin jounu aeiriAu liaii o wii i
New Yolk, April II 7 . A huII for
$75M.oot) for the loss of lo r husband
on the I.usltanln, which was torpedoed
by a German submarine, was Jilecl In
the federal court, today agsltut the
Cunurd Steamship company by Mrs.
May Davles Hopkins, of Louisville,
Ky., widow of A. ,. Hopkins. He was
president of the Newport News Ship
building and Drydock company.
Mrs. Hopkins alleges tiie company
was guilty of negligence by operating
the Iiitsltania at low speed thnumh a
territory known to be Infested by en
emy submarines.
GRAPHIC STORY OF DARING
W TD FARTHEST POINT
lr MOIH JOUKHAL tflCIll LUIID wian
El Paso, April 27. Hope thut the
coming conference between General
Oliregtm. j-ei.rowntlng I.Mexico, tind
Generals Scott and Funstou, repre
SMntlng thu I'nited States, will end all
talk of Intervention tn Mexico, was
VETOES BILLY SUNDAY
TABERNACLE Bill
lT H0ANIN3 jnuKNAL PCIAL LCAIIO Wl
lloston, April 27. A bill providing
for the erection wi'hont compliance
with the city's building laws, of a
tabernacle for Rev. William A. Sun
day's revival meeting wns vetoed by
Governor Mct'all today. The gov
ernor explained In n mesHaue to the
the feeling prevalent among Mexican I 'WMi'mre mat substitution or wood
officials in Jtiarea and El Paso to-if'"" fireproof material, as provided In
nly,)- (the bill, for the construction of the
None would venture the belief that i '"'"''"U'Ih would materially incruise
this would be the outcome of the Ith'' ''""Bt'r fl t" llr, r l"inU-'
meemiK. jiowevrr, one (.uieuii wno i , . , rn . , r n ur,.. i.iirvT
has been ln constant touch with theWtnlNtn HUnN MUol
ooi uer siiauiiou una nits oeio iimov
REACHED BT AIRIGAIS
CHASINGBANDIT CHIEF
MAJOR HOWZE'S SQUADRON
PENETRATES OVER 500 MILES
INTO MOUNTAINOUS MEXICO
Find Overturned Covered Wagon in Which It Is Believed
Villa Had Been Carried, After Receiving Wound, Until
Wheeled Vehicle Could Proceed No Further; Several
Skirmishes Occur With Villista Forces; One United States
Cavalryman Is Killed and Others Are Slightly Wounded;
Men Chase Enemy Relentlessly and Are Close on Mur
derer When One of Pershing's Aeroplanes Overtakes
Them in Sight of Durango State Line and Orders Them
Back to Join Tompkins After Fight at Parral; Indications
Are That "Pancho" Made His Way Into Rugged West
ern Country to Hide in Caves to Recuperate.1
of-
FACE FEDERAL JURY
ly officials assumed that the emperor
invited Mr. Garard to confer with,
him. In both official and diplomatic
quarters the injection of the emper
or's personality Into the situation was
regarded as being a hopeful Indica
tion. President Wilson expects to receive
the German reply within the next few
davs. it became known today, al-
I though the basis for this expectation
(was not revealed. Up to the presertt,
' 1.. ....I... A..Du,i.mu P rt m l!,ulln . Vi
is entirely without definite Informal rhs
j tlon of the Intentions of the German
1 government, t ; '
Not Influenced ly. Telegram.
The president, officials declare, 'the
(will not be influenced in the slightest
i by the thousands of telegrams sent In
( the laBt few days to senators and rep-j-resentativcH
urging them not to ap
I prove any action which might lead to
900 'war. His course In the German slt-
: imil'MI 111 ue ftuoiu 1 ... v.....
character of the German reply.
Should any serious effort be made to
embarrass him. It was declared au
thoritatively, he will ugaln go before
congress and Insist that members go
on record for or against his policy.
Advlt'o to Ambassadors.
It was declared at the state depart
ment during the day thut the memor-
jandum In regard to the armament of
merchant ahlps, made public yester
day, had been sent to all American
embassies and legations in Europe
for their Information und guidance.
ti..i t luu-.a'. c.ourirriM or'v.ooies iur Anuiamiauuin . w
the Eleventh cavalry was two miles Berlin, and Page at London, were sent
outh of Guadalupe April 8, It was by cable. None of the Amor lean d P-
General GROOMS, i lomauc irji-inainrs ,
inu iiiiiiu
ac
credited, the document having al
ready been handed to diplomatic rep
resentatives of foreign governments
here.
Hill Ish Nolo ItcH'ived. j
Secretary Lansing announced that.
conferences with American army
ficlals, went so far as to say: I j
"It Is obvious that the de facto I ,.om,iomiivicii.uHDwini i
government docs not wish intervene linslon. April 27. -AVomer Horn
tin. and it Is well known it hopes who attempted to destroy the Intema-
thut the American troops will be wlth-tinal bridge at Vanceboro, Ale., on
drawn from Mexican soil. The mere j February 1, lain, must utand trial on '
fact that It Is taking part in a con- a charge of Illegal transportation of!
ferenee. with repveeeniatives of the I dynamite, the federal com r ,f appeals
American government surely Indicates ! ordered today, ln denying his petition
that it believes its, hope can be real-! for a writ of habeas corpus.
teed." I Horn, who introduced his coinmls- j
IntcrvcntloiilMs Not (notions. Jslon as a iteiitcnunt of a German land-
in(..,...ntio,,iuiu n.hn nn in i-rniin I we hr regiment, claimed the courts i
(r, v tJnu.i nr.. not o rimlliiiia in rllu. Iad 110 jurisdiction.
General Cavazos and
Mexican Cavalry Charge
Down on Major Howze's
Force, but Stop in Time,"
lV MOKNINS JOURNAL PIClAl. LIAHD WIS!)
Field Headiiuarters, April 24 (H.v
Motor Courier to Columbus, N. ,M..
April 27.) American cavalry and
Carranzlsta cavalry, each force num
bering about 2U0, missed clashing by
n maririn of a few second when
learned hero today
who recently was reported searching ' been instructed to present the mi
for Villa's body, commanded the Car- j the r;;nt w hich h is
tanzlstas.
As the Americans were about to
climb a long sloping hillside a force
of mounted Mexicans dashed over the
brow of the hill, carbines lowered for
action, and yelling preparatory to en
tering action. The Mexican national i he nad received irom me nriumi xv
colors bobbed over the foremost rank, lernment a copy of the confidential in
Major Howze rode to the front of structlons to captains of British met
his own troops, opposite the point of , chant ships, now said to be in opera-
cussing the results that will come i
from the. conference. They openly
exptess the opinion that the outcome
wilt, be a settlement which will obvl
atrf, for the time being at least, any
chance for a ln-eak between tho two
governments.
These point to the statement or
Secretary Maker at Washington lhaC
instructions lsjued to Gelieiul
Scott and General Kunstou ure "to
discuss) a basis for the most cordial
and complete co-operation between
American and .Mexican forces I"
(he attainment of their common ob
ject."
Discussion of the conference was
the chief occupation in Kl Paso to
night pending arrival of officials who
will participate In It.
General obregon. according to a
message received Into today, by Gen
eral Gavlra, commander of the Juaren
garrison, left Chihuahua City tonight
and is due to arrlvo In Juarez at 9:30 j
a. ni. tomorrow. Generals Scott and
Funston will riot complete their:
twenty-three hour ride, from San An- :
tonio until (i:;i0 o'clock tomorrow ev-j
enlng. I
On account of the late arrival of
Generals Scott und Funston. It is
thought likely that the conference
will not he begun until Saturday, and
that, possibly only the preliminaries
will lie settled then. The real
of the conference may not. be reached
fH'fore Sunday. j
May Claim ITivllcgo of Iliuik. j
The meeting place cannot be settled
until the arrival of the participants.
Mexican officials thought today, how-1
over, that It probably would be held
in tho customs house In JuureR. They
pointed out that General Obregon'H
superior rank as minister of war
DEMOCRATS VOTE
III CAUCUS FOR
FILIPINO OILLP
Thirty-five Oppose and 28
Refuse to Be Bound by Can
cus; Jones Expects
pendencc Measure to Pass,
(By Morning Journa
Field Headquarters. April H ( Hy
Motor Courier to Columbus, N, M..
April 27.) A cavalry lieutenant, with
a face sunbiirne.j the color of a ripe
cherry, arrived here today bringing
the story of adventures and fighting
by the column thut penetrated farth
est south ln the Villa chase, fifteen
I miles further than oven TotnpUins at
Parral, and Which rode nearly Mia
I miles until it was lit sight of the ln
I rungo slate lino on Chihuahua's
I son i hern border.
j This was the picked squadron of
MaJ. ilobeit L. How, of the Klev
lenth cavalry. They rode trails where
no Currnndstu soldier ever had been,
where the natives asserted no horso
could go, and where Ytlllstas laid am
buscades of sinister cunning, bill al
ways Ineffective.
Und Villa's Wagon?
. It. was April 7 when, three mlb's
north of Cineguite, the Picked squad
ron came mf an abundoned wagon of
the prairie si hooner typo, ; from
which the, fitBVUH cover hud been
ripped. The wagon was In perfectly
good condition.
The A met leans were uUe to account
for this only In the liaht of reports
they hai received (hat Villa himself
wounded, had ridden In this wagon a
week before them over 'his trail.
They had been assured thai the wag-
Ion overliirned, that Villa, fainted, and
i Spcci
ial Leaned Wire.)
der. The Mexican run and the Amer
icana fired three shots. Kach hhot
look effect, killing the soldier, who
proved to be Captain Sllvn, a noted
VIMiMa. Itaiii in town, meanwhile,
Hllva's personal effect had been dis
covered In his house. While officer
were ln the act. of reading an order
Issued to him by Villa from Chihua
hua City lust June, Kllva' 'big silver
braided sombrero and now of hi,
death were brought In. '
If Om Mn Only llcmitlncd.
The Americans found .lust on,i man
left lit a Joya, when they arrived.
Me whs in charge of tho church and
was carefully remaining within tho
edifice. ' V .
Half nn hour out of I.a Joya. Ibe
American pack train was fired Into
by lbe,jiien who had fled the place.
Two mules were killed. The assail
ants wet'u heard running ihiouxh the
bushes to get away when (be Ameri
cans oix'iieit flwi '' '
At 8:20 p. in, enlrrlog a canyon
flanked by two hill, each the height
of a twenty-story building, (he column
isii Into its first serious fight, Klovc.it
men, the advance guard, rode Into
the canyon a few seconds In advfanre,
of the nial nforce. Trees along .
rocky siren m at the canyon's moulli
hud I .wo ii marked for range finder in
advance by the Vllllstas. White rag
.'tied to tho brunohei Indicated the ex
act height of nien on horseback a
they trotted In.
Vilnius Hn, i inmiocd. -
The VHIIstas had practiced In ad
vance shooting nt ' imaginary Ameri
cans, us bullet marks showed.' Of tin)
jinn who rode Into the caiijon first,
five were bit. lull onlc one- Metionub'.
ocruU in caucus tonudit unproved l.-y ; , vMil.ien Mo; H. Pi iv Ki;l, "I Hi- !'' t
a vote or HO to ;i. the senate's Phil-! (h(,v htrut i almost Miah;bt south, j enth, who rudder mar Chailunoog.t,
tpplne Independence bill but itgi eed tin (V(.',. ,),., preeipitoii San linr.la, trull, Teim. His wound was peculiar, tho
permit an amendment In the house j wnf.r,, ,heir native guides abandoned ' bullet entering' one ear aiid emerging
to the prohibition section of the ineas- (.r n,)rHOH t proceed afoot, assur- i front the other, leav ing ho little trace
lire. T wenty-elgnt iiicmneis an-,nB. .1,,, 'foollHii Aineiicanos'' that the that the surireon at fUM wns puzld
trail could never io i, utile by the big to know why he was dead.
cavalry hoiseM from the slates. Thei (if the other men hit one
that the canvas was thereupon lipped
T MORNINS JOURNAL RICIAL LiAIID WIRR,
Washington, April 27. House dem
lllfln- 0(1 niale the fiinioiis white litter
IIIKU I..,, .,1,1,1, 1 in,. ,, ,,u unl.l 1 1. Imv.. Iniv.
lied, carried by his men.
Itiil( Over SMs'p Trails,
They saw for themselves confirma
tion of the report that It was barillv
worth while 10 1-inht the ovciiunied
wairoil, because the trails ahead were
members an
nounced that they would not be bound
work- bv the action or tne caucus.
W0"1 HI,.. ....I f I, u 1ll,.l
JL H llUC I llll'V IIII' I I ' I . .. 1. IJ. nn ....
been In session until nearly mldnlHht.
Opponents of the bill fought vigor
ously to prevent action, us they did
successfully last nlKbt- in spllo of the
reading of a letter from President
Wilson, Hiving the measure unquali
fied endorsement.
Aclhin l'.pile( soon.
As soon as the agrbiilt ural appro-
,,. I filiation hill, whic h Is lo be passea
the Mexican lints.
nnnaoiciious uniform led the Mexicans.
The men charging down the hillside
were within fifty yards or Major
Howze and his men had their rifles
ready, in case the band proved to be
Villistas, when Howze waved his hat
in a signal at which the Mexicans
reined in their mounts. General Ca
vaaos advanced and the two officers
recognized each other.
1 .a 1 .HA w-il
n,: ."hib nnu promiseu iwu tienenu cavazos eani i "
WOUld not Intcrfm.. ,..;u .1,., i. ! , ui- t..,.o that the
UlAnr-a t ....... i.tj Willi nn 10 HIIUIV Wlicil Jila imo oiai ibu ......
1 hV .any "Vailablo news. . force behind the hill was an Anieri-
div '? f;irth'r from London f:,ean column.
,, .. rting is irom New ioi-k.i
. ' "S communication fop the iren
where no officer n , t on. The secretary nils not yet com
pared tile i.ritisn version 01 ine in
structions with the German version
which was submitted with (he Ger
man declaration of Intention to re
gard the warships enemy merchant
ships carrying armament. It was
said, however, that the British ver
sion apeared to be nearly If not whol
ly Identical with that which was given
out in London last February and
cabled to the United States In press
dispatches. It was indicated that
some statement might lie issued luter
by the state department for the guid
ance of Americans traveling at sea.
f.roi ....1...
new., ,s --'oneerned.
n, nui uussentrer
i"l (OS moat
"en
The
Part
No Irish
here since
traffic has
suspended
OIllV lllf-n " . ...
offi-i.j i '"""oiiiucu comes tnrougn
""vtai channels.
, Kusiand Is Anxious.
In,,- .., n ""OJiiiMy iS exiremelv
y anx-
situation but no
are expresseu that the irovorn
rinliir t,"01 b ftbl' t0 suppress Hie
lot 4 .li,si'a'ties thus far do
in eivti .? !rt might have occurred
Inn a itM' 1,111 mor" R"vere fiM-
u ''r,'0, .follow bef0'-' W 18
h ei,t f the movement is for
Jfajfey in Congress
TENNESSEE SOLONS
. HAD PASSES TO
BURN!
l-tck l'p Witvked Hlplane.
Scheveningen, Holland. April 27
(via London, 7:15 p. m.) A IugBer
' it rough t into this port today a biplane
it assNiN joumiAL ric,AL imio wish (bearing the French color", but carry
N'asiiville, Tenn., April .'7. Mem- ! n(f a Hritish officer named lieare.
hers of the Tennessee legislature in (The aeroplane and its occupants W'ere
1 1 9 1 3 testified today at the Interstate ! pi,.ked up fourteen miles from the
Commerce Commission inquiry into roast after It had floated helplessly
affair of the Louisville and Nashville,
and .Va-shville, Chattanooga and St.
Louis railroadsy that they had re
ceived hundreds of railroad passes
which they haj turned over to con
stituent". They denied their action as
legislators had been influenced.
Witnesses said they were friendly to
the railroads but the friendship was
founded on Keneral principles. The
; investigation is l)eing conducted under
ia I'nited States senate resolution of
1 Senator Lea of Tennesstte.
"t noon.
SKX.VTE.
h .Tr.. Hasting
wnfer-n,.. American embargo
th,.'"'? f Ohlcaeo wa. behind
b .m". " ' induce
!,Ulry h"arinf n-1wl-Alo
l,, "liKe'Hneous legislation,
ftldny. ned Ai 53 p. m. to noon
of Wisconsin
wa behind
him to support
munitions of war to
Vet,
Hi-
at 11
I'KlllH. J
III... . 1
Mil.
MOISK.
a. m.
deliate 011
the agrtcul-
m. to 11 a. m.
there for thirty hours. The aviator
had been obliged to descend because
of lack of fuel.
Kmbt'iezlrinriit Tiarg'P IisnUswcd.
Chicago, April 27. The embezzle-
I ment charge against Franklin K. Jack
son, formerly cashier or the rsortn
western university, was dismissed to
day following a conference of univer
flity officials with the state' attorney.
Jackson was accused of embezzling
J 19,000 of the university funds.
NO
NEGOTIATIONS
WITH BULGARIANS
far HPiHim journal imcial lkascd wmil
London, April 27 (8:10 p. m.)
Lord Cecil Robert, minister of war
trade, denied in the houe of commons
this afternoon that Great Hrttain wa
carrying on Bemi-officUl negotiations
with Bulgaria. He reminded hi ques
tioners that Great Britain was pre
cluded by the spirit of the agreement
with her allie frwrn entertaining any
peace negotiation with any of their
common enemies without the knowl
edge and consent of the oth :r parties
to the agreement,
War-risk lt(es Advance.
London, April 27 (3:23 p. m.)
War-risk Insurance advanced one and
one-half per cent on all vessels to and
from the west coast of the I'nited
Kingdom. The rate between Liver
pool and New York Is now three per
cent. 1
the Carrnnza government entitled linn
to -the privllene of remaining on Mex
ican sotl- 1
The customs house Is a large red
brick building standing ln a block of
it own on the main street of Juarez,
only a short distance from the Inter
national bridge, where General Scott
held his famous conference with Vil
la' who then had not relapsed Into
his bundlt ways. Its rooms are spa
cious and cool and comfortably fur
nished in the Spanbh style.
Soldiers now keep guard at the en
trance, in the center of which stands
a machine gun, backed up by a chest
of cartridges.
All the moetinns will be secret. Tt
is, believed here thut the number or
persona present will be very limited.
General ohregon is aoeompunieil by
General Trevino, Carranza, comman
der at Torreon, and it is probable
General Gavira also will attend.
There will lie no special need for
swelling- the American representation
with interpreters, as General Fun
ston speaks Spanish fluently. There
are plenty of additional interpreter
among army men here if Ihoy are
needed,
Outside the conferences, both sides
will maintain privacy. Generals
Scott and Funston ate coming from
Pan Antonio In a private car and will
live in it while here. General Ohre-1
gon la expected to remain In his pri
vate car in Juarez a there are no
proper hotel accommodation for him!
there. ;
1 tomorrow or Saturday, is out or ine
j way, the Philippines bill will be taken
up in tile bouse lor passage. i":
democrats opposing it will have the
support of most of the republican,
but Kepresentallve Jones, of Vir
ginia, chairman of the insular af
fairs committee, said tonight he was
confident of its passage. .Neither
Speaker Clark nor Majority leader
Kltchin took any part in I be caucus
discussion. Those who voted against
the resolution, declaring thut Mil
should be passed by the house, were;
Those Who Voted So.
Representatives Allen. lieakes.
Uriickner, Caiew, Cney. Cnady, C011
rv Hale, Dewalt, Dooling, Kaaau, V,t
topinal, Ksrlev. Fit.gera Id. Flvnn, Gal
lagher, Gallivan. Griffin, Mart. Hul
bert lge l.iebel, Mr Andrew. Mc
Dermott, Maiier, ulney, Overiuver,
Patten. ItelllV. itiordan,' Sherloy.
Sinllli, of New York: l-ieti or nun
.vivanla: Tonga rr and au iijse
! guides walked, the cavalrymen walk
ed and so did the precious horses,
climbing every boulder that the men
surmounted.
Hear of Hand)!' Wound.
They reached San I lor. In, where
they received the only report on tlnir
entire trip thai Villa's wound was not
serious. Hearsay news at San llorja
had him wounded In I lie leg, but
astride a mule. At o'clock thai aft
ernoon, however. I hey strurk ut Casa
Colorado, ten miles south of Sail
llorja, the most direct circumstantial
evident!,! of the fugitive bandit's
whereabouts. In a. field where about
100 men had latnp'd a few days be
fore were surgical bandages, absorb
ent cotton eml on these articles evidences-that
they had come from a
wounds or wounds lu a very Infected
condition. TI10 only trail from this
field Indicated alio that, contrary lo
reports received by all oilier pursu
ing American columns and bv the
Carriinzislas, Villa probably had not
gone to Santa Ana. but was trying to
turn westward toward the mountain
caves for a. lilt lo rest,
Itrwh Vllhi Country.
Thereupon Major Howze's column
bore wesiward, a movement which led
Into a completely hostile Villa coun
try. Th Americana, keeping men lu
excellent condition, anil horses in fair
. . ..
on ,h.. il.lrttr.f 'H t ie 11 O OWing OHJ noaiie. 11,111 mill, agon l,ao 10 uoooe-
not absolve themselves from (he i.nu-jtbe length of each day's march of tho
r,,M ..len,-,. 10 vote for the bill' iflet.jiig Vtlilsiiis, until soon they were
i..K,..uentnl ves Casey. ifewnn.
Liebel, (iverin.ver, Kelllv, Steel, Tag-
, van livke. Ruirescntatlvo
r,oi.i,v of New York, who did not 1 r)iUiiui.ks, wilii freshly killed beef.
I ne
two days behind
I the hunUiesp under which they start
ed. Corn und wheal, Rround to make
vote.
AMKltK'AX ( I TI7.i:V IS
SAVKU HV HIS IUIOTHI.lt
Lansing iw-nle lleport
Washington, April 27. Secretary I In
Douglas. Ariz., April 27. Through
the Interceaslon of his brother. Krnest
Fleischer, a. Oouglas merchant, Louis
B. Fleischer, a Tucson commercial
traveler, who was arrested on the
charge of having been implicated lit
Importing arm and ammunition Into
Sonora for the use of enemie of the
I government, was rep ased and Is now
Cananea. Krnest Flelaofier, wno
LansinK today msde an unqualified de
nial of published reports that the
I'nited Slate had given any informa
tion whatever to the British govern
ment which aided In the apprehension
of Sir Roger Casement on hi unsuc
cessful expedition to Ireland,
went to ht brothers rescue, brought
the matter to the attention of Gen.
P. Flla Calle, military governor of
Sonora, who made a ertoiial investi
gation and ordered the release of th
prisoner, stating that the rase ,wa
apparently the result of spite wirk.
also absolved himseu.
rr und Aunin-t.
Representative Jones, o Vrliil-i .
Garrett, of Tennessee: lialney, ot Illi
nois: Heflln, of Alabama: Kagle, or
Texas, and Thomas, of ,K'',UI:'',V
made speeches in favor of the. bill,
while Representative. ConrV, of .New
York; SherUv, of Kentucky; 'iy
of .Vew York, and Taggart, of Indl
.... ..noed it. The bitter dwelt on
! the unr (iness of the Philippine f-r
Independence and on the strateaio
Importance of the Islands und tho
posslbllltv of their becoming the pos
session of another world power, if In
dependence were granted.
l:xilslves .Vol Wanted.
New York. April 27. Comns, ciyna
mite, trinitrotoluol, and other ex
plosive were ordered removed from
the federal courtroom by I'ttlted
State Judge Howe today after they
had been identified by Carl WlUlg,
chemical enxineer, as having been In
the possoBsion of Robert Fuy, former
lieutenant of the German army, nad
Walter Scholz, his hrolher-in-la w.
who with Paul thieehe, are on trial
charged with conspiracy to destroy
munition teamshlp.
soldiers' diet, and they do-
ihe (bli ndest ever, but satis
was
clarod It
fying."
San Jose Hot Sitio was the next
stop after Casa Colorado, lly guard
ing his house with AmciieHii sentries,
so that his townspeople might not pry
Into the f.n t thut he wan talking to
Ameiicans. a wealthy old man of the
Ilia, regime told Major Howze that
i I lit. bad probably Hot come to San
Joso Del Sit hi. but had turned went.
In all likelihood toward Xonoavo, In
Hie mountains. Villa had sent most
of bis person! escort through Han
Jose Del Sit in.
Kill Biinilil ( apialii.
Hoping to cut off Villa's trail out
of the mountains, the cavalrymen
rodn south, through territory never
traversed by Carrunclstus, tu linlleiizu.
llefore leaching thut place they
passed through l.a Joa, where u
I. and of VHIIslas scurried out of town
ahead of th"m, scattering in a dozen
different trails.
Troop A of tho eleventh, leading
ot,n of the pursuing American squads,
surprised (he laht man of a fugitive
group, s he whs about tu enter the
brush on top of a ridge. An officer
shouted to him ia Spanish to hunen-
wa
scialchcil In the rorchouil, one shot in
the leg, one with a slight flesh wound
and Ihe fifth, whose nose Was skinned
neatly at the tip by the rough edge
of a lioctu t bullet. Another man re
ceived a bullet in the cuiitcn at hi
belt, (he bullet remaining In the
iiliiumliium water bottle.
Hamlin Beaten,
In less than a minute reinforce
ment dashed through the marked
range, their fire, agisted I y lilies
from the American guard which wa
stil! back on the hill before the can
yon's mouth, pulling tho Villista to
flight. A detachment pursued (ho
liaiidds until darkness elided the
chase.
The American , camped in the can
yon, a feint, for soon after dark
thev look up a night ride, hoping
to sitipiiHo the Villista in the next
town, Santa Crux (a different place
from tho town of that name occu
pied by Major Tompkins ufter tho
Parral fight H. During the bivouac
thev buried Klrby's body under a
tree.
One Mexican Killed.
Sant.i Cruz wa reached soon after
midnight, where a running flKht In
the darkties occurred. Them tho
score of Iho afternoon' fight wa
oven",!. One Villista was killed. A
nephew of General lleltran. the VII
hsla's leader, was captured. Tho
white horses, belonging to his fa
ther, also ,1 "General" Belt ran and
lljefe de armas of tho village, wa
killed. "General tseuran s sumo
along with soniu valuable aim were
taken.
The trail In this region was so
preeipltions, that the first Cavalry
man Into S.inta Crua went op tha
side of tiie ravine afoot, clinging
vvlih one hand to the tail of. hi
horse.
Another soldier,
came so absorbed
that ho riudied up
.vrlnltnlnsr: ' it.
loj horse so I van shoot. '1 110
lieutenant, ur Unit moment kept sta
tin, nirv bv other duties, held th
hois, until the orderly could take a
few shots.
Ordered Hack by AvIuUU',
The column proceeded after thtu
HhJiI to bevoiid Cuslta, until thev
wer rt- bill from which they could
look into the state orf Durango.
From this hill the men saw tin avia
tor circle southward and hind In Du
rungo. (To was Lieutenant I. A. Ha
del. the man who went farthest
south In the pursuit- I
The aviator rose, returning to
CasK.i, where he delivered General
Pershing' order to Major Howie,
after the ParrKl fight. Th column
turned northwest to Join Tomkins.
Ruder' aeroplane wa left at Ca
lta, near tho railroad, embankment,
v.
an orderly, be
in iho fighting
to n lieutenant
lieutenant hold
