THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SIXTH YEAR
12 PAGES
AMvaarrTaviONA, FRIDAY MORNfXO, APRIL 28, 191G
12 PAGES
.VOL. XXVI, XO. 311
Fill PEACE
OF Stilt
IS DFNOUHCED
Colonel Roosevelt at a Un li
quet of the Methodist So
cial Union Talks On the
S u 1) j e e t s Preparedness
and National Courage
HAD OAKTWPJUHT
BEEN A PACIFIST
Methodism Would Not Have
Heen Carried Across the
Alleghenies. This Coun
try's Futility In Dealing
With Mexico
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK. April 27. Theodore
itoosevelt urged the doctrine of pre
paredness upon a large number of
Methodists gathered here tonight at
I lie annual banquet of the Methodist
Social t'nion of Now York and he re
ferred to the latest pnases of the rela
tions with Germany and Mexico as
showing that "timidity and weakness
invite war instead of averting it."
"I have a right to speak to you for
peace," said the colonel in declaring
that he was tired of a wanton and un
justifiable war. "I was president seven
nnd a half years. This nation during
all that time never for one moment
permitted any power to wrong this
country or to wrong Americans either
in person or property, or to make us
recreant to our duty to others; and yet
during those seven and a half years
not one shot was fired by any man in
American uniform against any foreign
foe and not one American man. woman
or child, was slain by representatives
of any foreign nation
"If those old Methodist circuit riders
who spread Methodism had considered
peace the chief of all earthly goods,
they would never have gone west of the
Alleghenies. If I'eter Cartwright and
his fellows had feared to face trouble:
if their zeal for the faith had been less
than their dread of disturbance, there
would not have been a single Methodist
church west of the Alleghenies. They
knew that there is a peace which is the
peace of cowardice: and that the peace
of cowardice becomes In the end, the
peace of death
"Trained strength in either a man or
a nation may be instrumental for
wrongdoing, but this merely to say
what is true of every' attribute; what
is just as true of oratorical power, of
legal ability, of business ability, of a
trained and educated brain in any pro-
Washington Still Hoping
That Clash With Germany
May Some How Be Averted
The Fact That Ambassador
Gerard Has Heen Invited
to Confer With Kaiser
Regarded As a Favorable
Sign
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire
'.V AS HI XGTON, April 27 Secretary
Lansing said today that he had uo
further advices from Berlin regarding
the submarine issue and the situation
remained unchanged. The German
embassy also was said to be without
information.
Announcement in press dispatches
from Berlin that Ambassador Gerard
would confer with Emperor William
at the army headquarters was re
garded hy officials as being signifi
cant. Official information of the
subject was lacking, but the opinion
was freely expressed that It was not
THI FORM
of w NEWS
L A N CI ID SEl
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
The whole of Ireland is under mar
tial law as a result of the attempted
resolution in Dublin. The disaffection
has spread to points in the west and
south of the island, but here, as in
Dublin, strong military activities are
under way to put down the move
ment. The submuiine Nsue between the
I'nilorl Sfntps it ml l',irtuu in' in tit!
t all unlik l that the tmperor might bejns consj,um, ,,y the ,;erman Bov.
orr.ment. A:nbassador Gerard is to
have in mind supplementing .er-
many's reply to the American note
demanding the immediate abandon
ment of present methods or subma
rine wartare. with a personal commit
ment ion of such fact to President
Wilson i
Ambassador Gerard in visiting the
emperor is not acting under instruc
tions from Washington. Consequently
officials assumed that the emperor
invited Mr. Gerard to confer with him.
In both official and diplomatic qu.ir
leis the injection of the emperor's
personality intc the situation ns re
garded as being a hopeful indication.
President Wilson expects to re
ceive the German reply within the
next few days, it became known to
day although the basis for this expec
tation was ,iot revealed.
The president, officials declare, will
not be influenced in the slightest by
the thousands of the telegrams sent
UnSU REVOLT'S
SERIOUSNESS
It
Has Spread Through
West and South of Coun
try and Energetic Meas
ures Have Been Taken to
Put It Down
Incident Of The American
Dash to Borders Of Durango
In Pursuit Of Bandit Villa
15 P iEsTolD
"I:
n I SOCIETY
IT IS DEPRECATED
liY IRISH LEADERS
It is the Object of Detesta
tion and Abhorence By
Irishmen In Other Part's
of the World As Well As
England
visit Km pel or William at army head
quarters and discuss the situation with
him.
The sectors of Avocourt. ICsnes and
Oumieres, northwest of Verdun, are
still under the same heavy bombard
ment that has been in progress for
several days. No infantry attacks by
the Germans have been attempted
here, according to the Paris official
communication, but an attempt at an
advance probably is imminent, as these
artillery preparations usually presage
an attack.
Tie Germans to the northeast of
Verdun to the front of Haudremont
and between Duaumont and Vaux, es
sayed attacks following violent bom
bardments, but tiie French curtain of
fire held them to their trenches.
Artillery engagements have consti
tuted the fighting on the other parts of
the line in France and Belgium.
pons should be either fools or weaklings
in order that they may be saved from
the temptations incident to the pos
session of courage and integrity and
strength. On the contrary, we pray,
that they shall be strong and brave and
wise: and we strive to implant in
them that spirit of service to God
above through the service of man on
this earth which shall make them use
their strength of body and of mind
aright. And all this should be just as
true of a nation as of a man.
"If during the few years prior to the
war of 1812, the American people had
been willing to build a fleet of twenty
battle ships and to have those battle
Hhips manned by crews thoroughly
trained to handle them, and if they had
been willing to provide a thoroughly
efficient army of even ten thousand
men there would have been no war of
112 at all. We would have obtained
peace; and would have peace with self
respect. We finally had to fight that
war because for the nozen years pre
viously we had surrendered ourselves
to the guidance of the professional
peace prattlers and had sought to ob
tain peace without self respect; and as
a result we forfeited our self respect
and also endured three years of the
sufferings of war without the reward of
a successful war. Refusal to make
ready, and trust in -ace prattle pro
duced the war, and also produced our
failure in the war.
"We can play the greatest part on
behalf of peace that any nation has
ever yet played. We can play it not by
treading in the footsteps of China, not
by showing that we have lost the iron
in the last few days to senators and , although the French air craft have car
representatives urging them not to lied out bombing operations against
approve, any action which might lead numerous German positions,
tj war. Uis course in the German! The German guns are keeping up
situation will be guided entirely by , their heavy bombardment of the Rus
the character of the German retily. j position jit the lkskull bridge
Should any serious effort or made to j bead. Farther south the Teutons
embarrass him it was declared iu- I laun.iied an infantry attack near Ba
thoritntivelv he w ill srrain co before ' rai.oviehi. but were repulsed. Still
congress and Insist that members go! farther south th Russians have cap
on record for or against him. j fired the village of ( hromiakoua.
It was disclosed at the stale abing the Kovno-K'ivel railway,
partment during the dav that the' in A"' Mlnor to the south of liitlis
memorandum in regard to the ;,r-i the Russians have dislodged the Turks
mament of merchant ships, made pub-I from aM ,neir I'ositions in the moun
lic yesterday had been sent to al' ! tainHl ,hp Ptrograd commmii-
American embassies and legations in ' cation.
Europe fcr their information and i
guidance. Conies for Ambassadors 0n Eter" Front
Gerard at Berlin and Page at Umdon j PCTRoORAD, April 27.-(Yiu I.n-
were sent Jv cable. None of the iJ,m' 7 : " m.)-Except for a enntin-
representatives U,J"S -r"1'" onensive on tne ovmsi;
i irom w men na resoneti useir into a
upon the lkskull
American diplomatic
fauui.. u.a a ,i,.t ..-, tv,.-.t nhrnail lias heen instructed to nresent .
tlin tnpnuir.iiinnm It, tl envoi nmunt 1 ....
, ,, u- . ., , . n.j ,l , ,.. bridgehead, the Easier liolidavs passed
to v.hich ne is accredited, the dicu- - '
ment already having been handed to i
I without even minor activities, to say
diplomatic representatives of foreig'i
nothing of Cie swifi changes which
governments here.
Secretary Lansing announced that
he had received from the British gov
ernment a copy of the confidential in
structions to captains of British mer
chant ships, now said to be in opera
tion. The secietary has not yet com
pared the British version of the in
structions with the German version
which was submitted with the Ger
man declaration of internum to re- j
gard as warships enemy men-hunt!
ships carrying armament. It was i
i h:;vc marked almost every month of the
! warfare on the Russian fronts.
i German Submarine Sunk
i I.oXDoN. April 2S. 3:10 a. m. The
I de.-t ruction of a German submarine by
n Kr-tim trawler off the north coast
of Scotland is described by a, Dutch
I nwspai er received here. According
j to ti e accounts, the submarine had
1 halted two Dutch steamers, when a
trailer appeared and killed with its
first shot four men who were stand
ing on tee deck of the submarine. The
'"" "'- trawler then sank the submarine with
slon appeared to . nearly X not', s(,(.onll Thp entir ttCtion
(Continued on Page Two
lasted less than ten minutes.
EVIDENCE Of IMPROVED CONDITION
INCREASE OF IGESCAlESIIfl
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON. April 27. 10:17 p. m.
Martial law lias been declared
throughout Ireland and Major General
Sir John Maxwell, who until recently
commanded the troops in Egypt, has
gone over to take charge, the Irish
executives having placed themselves
untW bis instructions, lie has been
givn full disciplinary powers fc-r the
extension of operations and the sup
pression of the rebellion.
The revol: which broke out in Dub
lin Moml.iy, li.is spread to other part-
of Ireland chiefly to the west and
south. This information together
with the fact that the rebels still
are in Possession of palls of the city
of Dublin, was given to the nation by
the ministers in parliament today.
Cremier Asuuitb, who yesterday had
given reassuring pews respecting th
situation in Ireland, caused some
thina of a. flutter of excitement today
in the house of commons when he an
nounced the spread of the movement
to other parts of Ireland, the reten
tion by the revolutionary forces of
certain parts of Dublin and the fact
that fighting -a.s still going on in
the streets.
Tie government, the prime minister
further announced. was convinced
that the forces now in Ireland ami
those proceeding there were adequate
to deal with the situation.
John UeJmond. leader of the Irish
nationalist party, and Sir Kdward
arson, the unionist leader, strong op
ponents of the home rule question.
x pressed their detestation of the ris
ing, and. as a i onse'iuence. Premier
As iuith said he did not think it n-c-'
essarv to hold a session of the house
Monday, is had been suggested by
oni of the members, 'to make clear
to the world what wan 'be true
imount o:' support behind th move
ments.
At the rising of the house the hum?
seiret iry. Herbert Samuel, was about
to announce the receipt of informa
tion that over "considerable districts"
of Ireland calm prevailed and to re
peat the prime minister's promise tha'
consistent with the military exigen
cies, all the news availible would be
publishe,i and the necessary facilities
grart"d to newspaper men.
Individually the minisreis express
confidence :hat the military forces on
the s-;iot ran deal successfully Vith
the movement. On the political side
the oositioii is much more saiisfae
toiy. .Mr. Kedmo.id and Sir Kdward
Carson being in agreement that no
political capital is to l made out of
tr,e troubles
w itn frontier Asqiuth- promise in
i.enair or me government lor a
searching investigation into Ike ori
gin of the movement, and his accept -
ih'e of full responsibility, the -'round
was made clear for further action.
-ir Ktbv.ird Carson offered to place
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. April 27. - The
American embargo conference an or
ganization with headquarters in Chi
cago, was charged by Senator Husting
today with promoting a plot to de
ceive congressmen and public opin
ion by originating and paying for
the propoganda which for several
days has deluded senators and re
presentatives with many thousands!
of telegrams protesting against any
break between the I'nited States and
Germany.
The Wisconsin senator read in the
senate copies of letters sent to his
constituents containing four form
telegrams of protest like those re-
Story. of the First Engage
ment With the Villistas
On (iround Which They
Mad Marked With Jian-e
Finders
I
W WORDS
IT
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
.F1KIJJ 1 1 KA 1 HJ U ART ER S (Via mo
tor to Columbus) April 27. Troopers
returning with Colonel Howze expe
dition in pursuit of Villa, described
a brush with the bandits and the suh
sequent pursuit to the. border of the
state of Durango:
At entering a canyon flanked by
two hills, each the height of a twenty
story building, the column ran into
iis first serious fight. Eleven men
the advanc3 guard, rode into the can
yon a few seconds in advance of the
mam force. Trees along a rocky
stream at the canyon's mouth had
been marked for range finders in
advance by the Villistas. White rag-i
tied to the branches indicated the
exact height of the men on horse
I a' k as they trotted in. The Villistas
had practiced in advance shooting at
imaginaiy enemies as hullet marks
showed. ( if the men who rode into
the canyon tirst five were hit hut only
one seriously." He was Private Kirby
of the Klcventh, who resides near
Mexican Minister of War
Makes It Clear What He.
Expects to Accomplish
At the Conference With
General Scott
WITHDRAWAL OF
AMERICAN TROOPS
In An Interview He says
Ho Is Prepared to Show
That Mexico Is Com
petent to Handle the
JJandit Problem
eehed bv congressmen
the embargo conference would pay
telegraph tolls on all such messages.
He charged that the forms had been
prepared in advance and that the
conference had studiously awaited an
opportunity to launch its propaganda
when it might do most to convince
the country that the president and
congress were hent upon war.
Senators Sherman of Illinois and
t'omerene of Ohio also denounced the
I propaganda but Senator Works of
I California rebuked Senator Husting
and saying j Chattanooga. Tenn. His wound was
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
ClIIHl'AHrA. Ilex., April 27. Gen
eral Alvaro Obregon, minister of war
of the de factor government, will sub
mit his assurances to Major Generals
Scott and Funston at their coming con
ference in Juarez or Kl Paso that the
Carranza forces are now fully able to
cope with the Villista bandits that are
operating in southern Chihuahua. The.
minister of war said be hoped to ar
range for an early retirement of the?
peculiar the bullet entering one ear j Americans from Mexican soil.
(Continued on I'age Two)
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
Rl'TTK, Mont., April 27. An
nouncement was made today by of
ficials of the Anaconda Copper Min
ing company and other mining com
panies operating in the Butte dis
trict that, effective May 1, the wages
of miners and smelter men at" Butte,
Anaconda and Great Falls would be
raised 25 cents a day. This makes
the minimum wage $4.50 per day.
Better Outlook In Coal Fields
Anthracite And Bituminous
The Anaconda company also
gave mtiiee that wages of its salaried
employes which are $300 a month or
less would be raised at the rate of
ten percent. This rate of pay is to
be effective so long as copper is
quoted at more than 25 cents
pound.
About 25,000 men are affected by
the increased wage. The advance
amounts to about $,00ii a day for
the miners and smeltermen in the
three cities.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK. April 27. A final ef
fort to avert a strike In the anthra-
ite coal fields will be made hy the
joint subcommittee of miners and
operators as the result of a decision
reached today at a conference here
between representatives of both sides
to the con'roversy.
The subcommittee, which broke off
Soft Coal Situation
XKAV YORK, April 27. The differ
ence between the bituminous miners
I. H. C. STRIKE SOON OVER
and emerging lrom the other, leaving
so little trace that the surgeon at
first v. as pu.zied to know why tie was
x.v.-.A.
The other men bit were one
scratched in the forehead, one shot in
th leg, one with a slight flesh wound
and the fifth whose nose was skinned
neatly at the tip by the rough edges
of a ricochet bullet. Another man re
ceived a bullet in the canteen at his
belt, the missile remaining in th-?
for bringing up the subject in the aluminum waiter bottle,
senate. f In less than a minute reinforce-
Although Senator Husting ad vo- j men's dashed through the iange. their
cated a congressional investigation of 1 tire, assisted by rifles from the Amer
the conference, he introduced no re- j ican guard which was still back on
senium) and the debate ended. the bids before the canyon's mouth.
iiefore his departure tonight for
Juarez General Obregon, who was ac
companied by General Trevino, Carran
za commander at Torreou, outlined to
the Associated Press the official pro
posals that he intends to submit to
Generals Soon and Funston. Inci
dentally the Mexican minister of war
refuted reports that there was any fric
tion between himself and General
Venustiano Carranza.
General Obregon, who is a man of
few words and direct speech, said re
garding the coming conference, which
is expected to determrne the future mil
itary courses of both the American and
Mexican troops: "I am going to Juarez
to convince the American respresenta-
Senator Husting asserted that the ' putting the Villistas to night. A de- I tives that our armv is more than amply
a u.chment pursued the bandits until B"lI'c e tomro1 ln." sma-"
(Continued on Page Two)
Revolt Defended
By Secretary Of
Irish Society
same organization had instituted
propaganda in his state last Kebru
ary in an effort to induce him ro
support a resolution placing an em
bargo on munitions of war to Eur
ope, lie put Into the record letters
bearing the names of Colonel Jasper
Tucker Darling, president: W. R.
MacDonald, general manager, and
. H. Forrest, secretary as officers
f the embargo conference.
Senator Sherman said the tele
grams of protest did not represent
either the initiative or the volition of
the persons signing them, but indi
cated, In his opinion "the activities
if the American Km'oargo conference, ;
which seeks o rliwc the neutral mar
kets of our country against the
European war."
During the day Senator Husting
ailed at the state department and
discussed the subject with Secretary
Lansing, who expressed his grati
fication at having the source of the
telegrams made public.
darkness ended the chase. I , -,. -
The Americans camped in the can-lla'Ke aud out,H"le tlle law' 1 bo "
von. a feint, for soon after dark they rranBe lor ,he P'0"1".1 retirement of
, . ., . . the American troops into their own
prise the Villistas in the next tov r.
Santa Cru.i (a dilferent place from
the town if that name occupied by
Major ToTipkins after the Parral
fight, i Iniring the bivouac they
huiied Kirby's body under the tree.
Santa Cruz was reached soon after
midnight, where a running fight in
the darkness occurred. There the
score of tlie afternoon fight was
evened, one Villista was killed. A
nephew of General Beltran. the Vil
Iisi's leader was captured. He and
a white horse belonging to his father
also a "general-1 Beltran and jefe de
armas of the village was killed. "Gen
eral" Keltran's sabre along with some
valuable arms were taken.
The trail in this region was so
(Continued on Page Two)
CI
E
PURSUERS. MOT IF CHASE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire astride a mule. At 1 o'clock t'lat after
KIELD HEADOCAKTERS. April 24. "ooii. however, they struck at Casa
- By Motor Courier to Columbus, X. M.,
A cavalrvman, with a face
Colorado, ten miles south of San Borja.
the most direct circumstantial evi-
Al-ru -..-.-i cavau Milan, w.iu 'ace deIM.e (lf ,,, fllgiUve bandit's where-
sunouriuu lo me co.or o, a .,pe coei..v. ailt,.,.s ,n a fk.,d wner(, ,ll)0,n
airneu ncre louax, oimging me , m).n l(, em.ainped a few UHVS before,
of -id ventures and fighting by the vllril at,(rhAnt rot-
column which penetrated farthest south n aml on tt)ps(1 articles wore pvi-jcan be realized."
,u me vi. ,a case, ...veeu .ones Alices that they had come from Interventionists, who are numerous in
country.
General Obregon was most emphatic
in denouncing the reports which he said
had been circulated in the United
States that he had broken with the first
chief.
"I wish to emphatically deny the in
ventions of the American yellow press
which has insinuated that there is fric
tion between myself and General
Carranza." he said. "1 wish further to
state that there is perfect harmony
among all the chiefs of the constitu
tionalist cause. "
General Obregon left Chihuahua on
his special train at ten o'clock tonight.
The Hope of Mexicans
EI, PASO, April 27. Hope that the
coming conference between General
Obregon, representing Mexico, and
Generals Scott and Funston. repre
senting the I nited States, will end all
talk of intervention in Mexico was the
feeling prevalent among Mexican offi
cails in Juarez and El Paso tonight.
None would venture the belief that
this would be the outcome of the meet
ing. However, one of those who has
been in constant touch with the border
situation and has held many confer
ences with American army officials
here, went so far as to say: "It is ob
vious that the de facto government
does not wish intervention and it is
well known it hopes that the American
troops will be withdrawn from Mexi
can soil. The mere fact that it is tak
ing part in a conference with represen
tatives of the American government
surely indicates that it believes its hope.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO, April 27. Employes o
the International Harvester company
who went on strike today will re
turn to work tomorrow, according
to George A. Uunney, secretary of tho
company who said that an agreement
had been reached with the workers.
of District Xo. 5 in Pennsylvania and Kmptoyes in the twine plants were
the first to leave and later in the day
their employers, over the Interpreta
tion of the contract drawn up at the
soft coal conference here last Feb-1
ruary were settled in a satisfactory
negotiations Tuesday after whurmi,nn'r to bolh sides here today and
ecmed a hopeless deadlock had de
veloped over the miners' demands,
was Instructed to reach an agreement
before May 2 if possible. On that
date the t'nion Mine Workers of
America, of the hard coal, region, will
meet In convention at Pottsvillc. Pa.,
and probably will vote on the ques
tion of a strike.
Representatives of both the miners
nnl operators declared after a con
ference that they were hopeful gome
agreement would be reached by the
subcommittee which will resume its
sessions tomorrow.
the miners will go back to work to
morrow. This was announced after
conference between John P. White,
president of the t'nited Mine Workers
those of two of the foundries went
on strike. A leader of the men, who
are unorganized, said they wanted
shorter hours and an increase In
wages. The terms of the agreement
were not announced.
COTTON OPERATORS GAIN
fRepublican A. P. Leased Wire)
XEVV BEDFORD, Mass., April 27
of America and W. K. Fields, rep-1 Fifty lnusanrt C()t't()I1 mi operators
'esenting the Pittsburg Coal company
and other operators.
About 24.000 miners in the district
will benefit by the wage advances
announced today bv the manufactur
ers association in this city and Fall
nave been on sirm to eniorce the River. The increase in each case
terms of '.he contract which includes, wll, become effective May 1 and will
a five per cent Increase in wages, amount to ten percent, bringing the
This increase they now will receive! mIb of waites to the highest point
It was said but no information was
given out as to the manner in which
the differences had been adjusted.
in the history of the industry in
this section, according to the authorities.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, April 27. Xo one
familiar with the course of Irish af
fairs since the outbreak of the war
was surprised at the news of the in
surrection now in progress, according
to a statement issued today by) John I).
Moore, national secretary of tho
Friends of IrMi Freedom.
"The Irish rebellion was the act of
brave and patriotic men who are
neither firebrands nor hotheads." said
Mr. Moore. "Now that Mr. Asquith
has acknowledged that it has spread all
over Ireland, :t is clear that the upris
ing has on!v one meaning, and that is
that Ireland is, as always, resolved to
be free and independent.
"Convinced that England's necessi
ties, ever more pressing, would soon
drag them into the war, thousands of
gallant Irishmen have revolted hecause
thev prefer to die fighting against
England for Ireland than fighting for
England in the trenches in Flanders.
"If the reoellion succeeds, its leaders
will rank with the world's great men.
if it fails, the Irish will love them as
they love Robert Kmmett. The revolt
dees not look like a failure now.
"Sudden and dramatic as the upris
ing has been, it could surprise nobody
who has followed the course of Irish
affairs since the outbreak of the war.
Moreover, it completely shatters the.
carefully constructed myth that the
mere passage of a mock home rule bill
1 ad transformed Ireland Into an inte
gral part of the F.ritish empire."
than even Tompkins at Parral, and
which rode nearly 500 miles until in
sight of the Durango state line on Chi
huahua's southern border.
This wac the picked seiuadron of
Major- Robert E. Howze of the Eleventh
cavalry. They rode trails where no
Cnrranzisti. soldier ever had been,
where the natives asserted no horse
could go, and wher" Villistas laid am
buscades eif sinister cunning, but al
ways ineffective.
It v.-as April 7 when, three miles
north of Cineguita, the picked squad-!
ron came ein an abandoneel wagon of
the prairie schooner type, from which
the canvifs cover had been removed.
The Americans weie able to account
l"r this only in the light ef reports they
had received that Villa himself, wound-
wounds of a very infectious nature.
Major Howze' 4 column bore west
ward, a movement which led into a
completely hostile Viila country. The
(Continued on Page Three)
El Paso, are not so cautious in dis
cussing the results that will come from
the conference. They openly express
the opinion that t lie outcome will be a
(Continued on Page Three)
Philippines Independence Bill
Favored By Divided Caucus
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, April 27. The
house democrats in caucus tonight ap
proved by a vole of 140 to 35 the
ed, bad ridden in this wagon a week senate's Philippines independence bill
before them over this trail. They had
bi'en assured that the wagon over
turned. Villa fainted, and that the can
vas was thereupon ripped off to make
the famous white litter in which Villa
was said to hava traveled, e:arried by
his men
They saw for themselves confirma
tion of the report that it was hardly
worth while to right the overturned
v i:gon because the trails ahead were
impassable to wheeled vehicles. So
they struck almost straight south over
the precipitous San Borja trail, where
their native guides abandoned their
horses to proceed afoot, assuring the
"feiolish Americanos" that the trail
co. ild never be made by the big cav
alry horsen from the states. The
guides walked, the e;avalrymen walked
and so did the precious horses, climb
ing every boulder that the men sur
mour.teu. They reached San Borja, where they
received the onlv report on their en
tire. trip that Villa's wound was not
seriovs. Hearsay news at San Borja
had him wounded in the leg but
but agreed to permit an amendment
in the house to the prohibition sec
resolution, declaring that the bill
should be passed by the house were:
Representative Allen. Beakes, .Bruck
ner, Carew. Casey, fVady. Conry, Dale,
Dewalt, Dooling, Eagan. Estopinal,
Farley. Fitzgerald, Flynn. Gallagher,
Gallivan, Griffin. Hart. Hulbert, Igoe,
Liebel. Mc Andrews, McDermott. Ra
tion of the me-asure. Twenty-eight ! her, Olney. Overmyer. Pattern, Keilly.
members announced that they would Sherley. Smith of New York. Stol of
not be bound by the action of the ! Pennsylvania, Tagart. and Van Dyke,
caucus. ! Of the 35. the following did not
The vote came after the caucus had
been In session until nearly midnight.
Opponents of the bill fought vigor
ously to prevent action, as they did
successfully last night in spite of the
reading of a letter from President
Wilson giving the measure unquali
fied endorsement.
As soon as the agricultural appro
priation bill which Is to be passed
absolve themselves from the caucus
pleelge to vote for the bill:
Representatives Casey, De Walt,
Liebel. Overmyer. Keilly, Steel. Tag
gart and Van Dyke. Representative
Oglesby of New York, who did not
vote also absolved himself.
Representative Jones of Virgina.
Garrett of Tennessee, Rainy of Illi
nois, Heflin of Alabama, . Eagle of
tomorrow or Saturday is out of the Texas, and Thomas of Kentucky,
way the Philippines bill will be taken made speeches in favor of the bill
up in the house for passage. The while Representative Conrey of New-
democrats opposing it will have the
support of most of the republicans,
but Representatives Jones of Vir
ginia, chairman of the insular affairs
committee said tonight he was con
fident of its passage. Neither Speak
er Clark nor Majority Leader Kitchen
took any part in the caucus discus
sion. Those who voted against the
York. Sherley of Kentucky. Oglesby.
of New York and Taggart of Kansas
opposed it. The latter dwelt on the
unreadiness of the Philippines for
Independence and on the sttrategic
importance and the possibility of their
becoming the possession of another
world power, if independence were
granted.
