D
Site
Sludktnct
2 t
mm
VOLUME 62
Number 13
PAW PAW, MICHIGAN, FRIDAY, APRIL 28, 1916
WHOLE NUMBER 4217
V
ODD FELLOWS
97TH ANNIVERSARY
Celebrated by Local Lodge
with Appropriate Ser
vices Tuesday Evening.
Address Given by Rev.
F. A. Shape.
Paw Paw lodge No. 18, I. O. O. P.,
celebrated the 97th anniversary of the
order with appropriate services at their
hall on Tuesday evening.
Shortly after six o'clock about 200
sat down to a supper of the "old time'
variety, served by the committee in the
main room, and all did justice to the
bounteous spread. After which the
following program was rendered:
Overture High School Orchestra
Heading Mrs. Flossy Young
Vio'ii Solo Rev. f. A. Shapi
Heading Mts. Ola Summy
Vocai Solo Hobert Dillon
Whistling Solo,.. Mrs. Gertrude Weston
Address Rev. F. A. Shape
Selection High Schoel Orchestra
Heading Mrs. Ethel Barr
Piano Solo. .Mrs. Bernice Quick-Linton
Reading Mrs. Eliza Chapman
Selection High School Orchestra
The address given by Rev. F. A Shape
was one of the tinest discourses on a fra
ternal subject ever given in Paw Paw.
He spoke of the growth of the order
throughout the 07 years, how it started
with five men in the city of Haltiaiore
and how the order has grown to num
ber into the millions. He gave a very
interesting biography of Thomas Wilder
the founder of O.ldfello wship hi Amer
ica. The statistics givec by the speak
er were astonishing even to those are
posted on he subject.
The Odd Fellows in Michigan intiiated
5,569, and the membership numbers
86,06& Number of brothers relieved
MOO. Number weeks benefit paid, 90,
109 Number of widowed f milie I relieved
I68i Amount relief of brothers, 983,'
730 86. Amount relief to widowed fam
ilies, 82,317.40. Amount paid nurse hire
$;,7il 54 Amount paid for special re
relief $6,137.78. Amount paid for buri
als, $21,233 13
The Odd Fellows have invested in a
home at Jackson, Mich , 898,427.26.
There are now ai the home, 50 men; 14
women; 8 children . The gross cost per
week per resident $4 02.
The musical numbers and readings
were all of the best, and were well re
ceived by the large and appreciative au
dience. The order in Paw Paw is a strong one,
there being about 175 members. Ihe
lodge has enjoyed a steady growth this
winter and several' new members have
been added to the Subordinate, En
campmenLad Rebekah lodges.
APPOINTMENT IS MADE
Dispatch from Washington state that
our genial rrierin ti a. i we nas neen
nnointed nosttiMSter at lav Paw His
ii in pruunuie mm wir. vuie win u
nrnmrt v r.nnfi r nieii and reneive hunnm
mission in time to take over the office
the latter part of May.
BEGIN TO TALK
Probate Judge and Prose
cuting Attorney the only
Offices to be Contested.
Other Officers will be
Re-nominated Without
Opposition.
v
AM the conventions will soon fte over,
when the attention of the people politi
cally will be taken up with the various
campaigns, state and county. There
will probably be but two contests ic
the Van Buren county primaries, for
prosecuting attorney and probate judge.
Prosecutor Earl L. Burhans is just com
pleting his second term and will not be
a candidate for renomination. The can
didates for this office in the republican
primaries will be Attorney U. M. Van
Riper of Hartford, deputy prosecutor,
Attorney H. H. Adams of Lawton and
Attorney Brett H. Cockett of Decatur.
For probate judge, Wm. Killefer is
completing his tlrst term and has already
announced his candiaacy for re-nomination
on the republican ticket. No other
public announcements have as yet been
made through tbe press, but it is gener
ally understood that Prosecutor Earl L.
Hurhans will contest with Judge Kille
fer for tbe nomination. It is also ru
mored that Attorney J. J. Sturr .if De
catur will be in the race. Everyone
concedes that -Judge Killefer has made
one of the best probate judges the coun
ty ever had. His close application to
the affairs of the olli je, his courtesy and
ability, and every other requisite for a
competent official have combined to
uiake his administration of tbe office
satisfactory to the countv. The only
reason that J udge Kiiu fer will not be
accorded trie customary second term
without opposition in the fact that he
was elected four years ago on tbe Pro
gressive ticket.
The balance of tne o unty official ros
ter are all completing their first terms
and will be renominated without opposi
tion. Gladstone R. Beattio has made
one of the best sheriffs the county ever
had. The same can be said of tbe couuty
Clerk Riyal Iv D cker, Treasuer A. O.
Duncombe, Register of Deeds H. W.
Shoerman, Drain Commissioner Chas.
Ashley, and Surveyor.W. H. Gobs. All
have been courteous and efficient offi
cials. They need havo no worry over a
re-nomination.
Senator Burrell Tripp and Representa
tive Lynn J. Lewis are also serving their
first terms and will have no opposition in
the pri-naries. Both have represented
their constituents in the state legislature
to the satisfaction of everybody and
will be accorded the customary second
term withou opposition.
C. C. Young has sold bis beautiful
home here to parties in Decatur, who
will take possession of the same some
time this fall. Mr. Young and family
will remain here until then, when they
will move on a large farm near Decatur
purchased by them. Tne True North
erner and their many friends here re
gret very much to lose this estimable
famil and all wish them well in their
new heme.
Rocclia Ccc Reynolds
Mft-HfN
One of Paw Paw's loved and niot highly re
spected ladies, Mrs. Kocelia Lee Reynolds has
passed beyond. She has been an intense, but
patient sufferer fpr many weeks, but is now at rest.
Kocelia Lee was the oldest daughter of Uriel
and Margaret Lee, and was born on the Loe farm,
3 miles south-west of Paw Paw. on Decatur road,
September 25, 1850. She passed away at her home
on east Main street, Sunday morning, April 23,
1916.
On Apnl 22, 1881, she was married to C. W.
Reynolds, and Paw Paw has always been
her home.
She was a member of the Christian Church,
the Eastern Star, and L. O. T. M. M. and the
Progressive Farmers' Club.
Mrs. Reynolds was loved and admired by
everybody. Her sunny disposition at all times,
her hospitality in the home, her loyal friendship
and helpfulness in the time of need, have all con
bined to make her a general favorite. She had a
kind word and cheerful smile for everybody, and
made her home a Heaven for her husband, her
children and her friends. She was also of a
charitable disposition, and no one in need ever
appealed 'to her in vain. She will be missed not
only in the home circle, but among those with
whom she mingled in asocial way, in the Eastern
Star, in the L O. T. M. M , in the Farmers' club
in the church, and in fact everywhere.
She had been In ill health for some months,
but her real condition was jiot known until re
cently .ttn examination some weeks ago revealed
the fact that she had a cancer, and that there was
no hope for her. Her daughter lone, who has a
position in the schools at Connersville, Indiana,
came home and tenderly nursed her until the end.
Ail that loving hands and skillful medical atten
tion could do was of no avail, and she went to sleep
to awaken no more on this earth.
The funeral was held from the Christian church
on Tuesday, Rev. F. A. Shape, officiating assisted
by the Rev. Olivia J. C. Woodman. Interment
was in Prospect cemetery.
She is survived by the husband, four children:
lone, Lee, Lynn and Max, one brother G. W. Lee
and one sister Mrs. Eva Orr.
L DELE- HEAVY INCREASE
GATES ELECTED ! IN PARCEL
PO
T
Hon. G. W. Merriman of Tabulation shows that over
Hartford and Senator' six tons of parcels were
Planck of Three Rivers,! dispatched from local
receive unanimous en- omceauringnrst id aays
dorsement
convention
of district
Id tbe Republican District convention
at tba city of Niles on Tuesday last,
Hon. G. W. Merriman of Hartford and
Senator Planck of Three Kivers were by
a unanimous vote of tbe convention,
elected as delegates to the National Re
publican convention, to be beld in tbe
city of Chicago on June 7th. Archie
Anderson of Barry Countj and C. W.
Kirsch of St. Joseph county were elect
ed as alternate delegates.
The convention was called to order by
Carmi Smith of Niles. W. W. Potter
of Hastings was made chairman and
Carmi Smith secretary. Mr. Potter
made a brief but ringing speech, in
thanking the convention for the honor.
On motion the following committees
were appointed:
Credentials: W. H. Stickles, Allegan;
Kllis C. Faulkner, Bnrry; C. B. Groat,
Berrien: J. H. Kinnane, Cass; Guy Bor
den, St. Joseph; Glenn K. Warner, Van
Buren.
in April.
Continued on Page 4, column t
A summary of tbe tabulation of tbe
parcel post business at tbe local post
office will be of interest to the patrons
of the office and give some idea of th
amount of work connected with this
branch of the service.
The post office department requires a
tabulated report of all parcel post busi
ness from April 1st to 15th inclusive of
each year. Following is a summary of
this business at the Paw Paw office for
the first fifteen days in April.
Total number of parcelsjreceived from
other offices for deliveryat Paw Paw
office 1797. Number of parcels received
for local delivery 102. Total 1899. Of
this number 937 were delivered at the
post office windows, 9"j2by rural carriers
and 10 by special messenger.
Number of parcels mailed'at the local
office and dispatched .to other offices,
B564. Weight of parcels dispatched over
6 tons. Postage on parcels dispatched
1482. 66.
Total number of parcels handled dur
ing the time covered by this report 11),
4.":i or an average of 804 'parcels per day.
Mrs. Olivia J. C. WToodman of Paw
Paw has been engaged to preach every
other Sunday afternoon in the Universal
ist church in Decatur. Mrs. Woodman
addressed Wayne grange one evening a
few month? ago und it was one of the
best talks the member ever listened to.
BERRIEN GETS
PAW
PAW
MA
Talk to Waters for Discs!
Harry Lurkins gets lucra
tive position as county
farm agent in Berrien
county.
Eaton & Mosier
Successors to G. W. TYLER & CO.
Headquarters for Di us, Groceries, Hardware, Paints, O'ls
We Pay Cash For Eggs
Our Gash Merchandise Coupons
Our cash merchandise coupons are attracting considerable
attention. By having them you my obtain several very
useful and practical household articles at greaty reduced
prices.
We Give You for $20,00 in coupons and 18.98 cash a New
Perfection improved oil stove No. 32 Value 111. 00.
For 15 in coupons and 14.25 cash a vacuum cleaner and
sweeper, Value $6.00
For 7. 50 In coupons and 2.12 cash a first class No. 9
wash boiler. Value $3 25.
For $4.00 in coupons and $1,72 cash a large nickeld cop
per tea kettle, value 2.50.
For $2 50 in coupons and 87 cents in cast your choice of
nickel led copper tea pot orcoffee pot, value 1.25.
WE WANT YOUR PATRONAGE.
WE DELIVER GOODS OUR PHONE No. IS 160
m
The above is Clark's Cut-a-way Disc, suitable for vineyard use. Many of our
most successful grape growers are now using this tool with very satisfactory ( OT
results. The price is J),
We have the Clark's double 24 discs at $46. This is a very good tool for heavy land.
John Deere. 12 Solid Discs, 16 inch in diameter $25.00
8 Solid Discs, 20 inch in diameter $22.50
Talk to Waters jor the Oliver Chilled, Steel and Walking Plows
i H. C. Waters & Company
Following h a dispatch from Benton
Harbor nnrl published in the Kalamazoo
j (jMzette Irtt SundaV.
"Last winter one of the Farmer'? In
Htitute speakers who brought doctrines
of progress to this section, Harry .1
Lurkins, "The Potato King of Paw Paw"
will on May 1st settle in this city as the
first farm agent in Berrien county's
history.
"3uch is the biggest industrial an
nouncement made in this section in
years. Lurkiucj comes at a salary said
to be 18.600, one of the best paid agents
in the state. While the funds are not
as yet provided by the county tax sys
tem, Benton Harbor and surrounding
fruit growing country defraying the ex
pense by subsc-iption, tba plan is so
well received that another year is ex
pected to see another agent added with
both under county supervision and pay,
thus providing for both the agricultural
and horticultural interests."
This makes three Van Buren Co. men
all from Paw Paw to get a lucrative ap
pointments as county farm agents. Jason
Woodman, Kalamazoo county; his son,
David Woodman, Alpena county and
now Harry Lurkins, Berrien county.
Van Buren regrets to lose the estimable
citizeoe and scientific agriculturalists,
but congratulatesour ne ghboring count
ies on their excellent judgment in mak
ing the selections.
The Royal Neighbors invite their hus
bands to meet witbthem Tuesday eve
ning, May 2, at Memorial hall. For par
ticulars see Mrs. Lake or Mrs. Hirle-man.
4
4
4
ii
We Know Not What's Before Us,
But you'll kaow that you have
A Load of Good Sound Lumber
behind you, when perched on your wagon home"
ward bound, after having been loaded in our yards
We Sell the Best
Free, Hall & Mutchler,
PawPaw, Michigan
ii
i Phone 37
IS
u;u;u;v:;;uu;vv;u;vi,;',v,',r,K',tiiittiiaiai
