Many Lives Lost When British Warship Strikes Mine and Sinks
HARRISBURG lfSf§i!i TELEGRAPH
LXXXV— No. %
BATTLESHIP WITH ''
124 MEN SENT TO
. BOTTOM BY MINE;
SUBMARINE SUNK!
British Warship Russell
Strikes Floating Engine of
Destruction in Mediterran
ean; 701 of Crew Are
Saved; German U-Boat
Sunk Along East Coast of
England.
ENGLISH STEAMER AND
GUARD VESSEL SUNK
Crew of Industry Put Adrift
120 Miles at Sea; Picked
Up by American Liner;
War's Toll of Merchant
Ships Placed at 736; U. S.
Loss Seven; Britain Is
Heaviest Sufferer
By .Issncici.'d Pre."
London, April 2*. The British
battleship Russell lias been sunk by
a mine. Admiral Fremantle, the
captain of the Russell, 24 officer* *;< ad
(!7fi men were saved.
About 124 men I'rvjui rtie Russell
are missing. Vn« rship was sunk
'w lb* WLxiTrerraucan. 1
fhe sinking of the Russell and a
German submarine was announced in
the following official statement:
"Tl. M. S. Russell, Captain William
Rowden Smith. R. .V., flying the tia«
of Rear Admiral Fremantle, struck
a mine in the Mediterranean yester
day and was sunk. The admiral,
captain, 2t officers and H7fi men were
srved. There are about 124 officers
and men missing. .
"A German submarine was sunk off I
the east coast yesterday. One officer I
and 1" men of the crew surrendered
antl were made prisoners."
Under ordinary conditions the Rus
sell carried between 750 and 800
men.
The Russell was laid down in 1599
and completed in 1903. She was 405
feel lone, 75 foot beam, 26 feet deep!
and displaced 14,000 tons. She was
armed with four 12-incli. twelve 6-
incl', twelve 3-incli and six 3-pound J
guns and four torpedo tubes. She
cost about $5,000,000.
The Russell is the eleventh British
* battleship which has been Inst during
the war. The others were the Auda
cious, Bulkwark. Formidable. Irresist
ible, Ocean, Goliath. Triumph. 51a
icftic. Natal and King Kdward Vlr. ]
In addition about 35 other British.
[Continued on Page 15 ]
Westinghouse Leaders
Claim Many More Trades
Will Join Them Monday
Pittsburgh. Pa., April 28. Vine
policemen making up the borough
force at Wilmerding, where the West
inghouse Airbrake Company's plant isi
closed because of the strike of elec
trical and munition workers in the ;
Turtl? (.'reek valley, notified the chief
of police. W. 11. Gilland, to-day that '
they would resign unless the deputy
sheriffs were removed. They said they
had no objection to the deputies re
maining at the works, but they did |
not want them patrolling the town.
There was quiet in all the strike
boroughs in the valley this morning,
strikers generally remaining off the
streets with the exception of those
detailed for picket duty. Their lead
ers claim they have now more than
30.000 workers out. and that many
other trades will join them on Mon
day, all seeking the eight-hour day.
Reports that barbers and elevator
operators had demanded shorter hours
and higher wages further complicated
the labor situation, but hope was still
held out that the Pittsburgh Railways
Company, operating all the traction
lines, would reach some agreeement
with their men before Sunday at mid- j
night.
300 rHI(KE\<i 111 ItM-'.l)
Fire Inst night complete!*- destroyed
tlip chickenhouse at the country home :
nf .1 nhii P. Melick. along the Jonestown
Road. ancFaboui .;">t-nf the t;+m
that were kept there, causing a loss 1
of Jl.fOO, partly covered by insurance.
[THE WEATHER. I
For IlnrrlMlMirK nn«l \idnllys l-'nir,
con tluucd cool to-night, with
lonpNt temperature about 11 «le
urccs; Saturday fair IIIHI warmer,
l-'or Kastern l'ruus> I vanla: (Ivvrcaat
to-nliihtt Saturday lair anil
wiirmeri moderate northerly
wIOIIM.
Itlver
The lower portion of the Xorth
llraneh ami the main river will
rlNc to-night an«i begin to tall
Saturday. \ll other streams of
the nyNtrm will fall slowly or re
main nearly stationary. A state
of akoHt v." feet u indicated for
Harrlshurg Saturday morning.
fieneral Condition*
Pressure has Increased over nearly
all the Kastera lialf of the eouiu
try and the skies have cleared
from the l'lalns Mate* eastward,
except along the %tlantlc coast
** and in the I pper Ohio Valley,
where cloud> weather m 1111 per
sisted, with rain falling al Sew
\ ork t Ity and snow at lloaton.
Temperatures have risen - to -4 de
gree* over nearly all the country
between the Koeky Mountain*
and the Ml*al*nlppl river.
Temperature: S a. in., 14.
Sun: Itlse*. f>:OS a. n».; sets, IS:.*"
p. m.
Moon: >ew moon, May 12 :'JO
a. m.
River Stage: 7..% feet above low
water mark.
Yeaterilay's Weather
Highest temperature, !»I,
l.owent temperntiire. -IJI.
Mean temperature. 47.
formal temperature, 55.
BY R \RRIR.N « rp.vrs \ WERK.
SI\I;I R. COPIKS A CESTS,
NEW PARKWAY DRIVE WINDS THROUGH WOODED '
COMPLETION, IS EVEN MORE BEAUTIFUL THAN CAMERON EXTENSION SECTION
Despite bad weather conditions which hindered work on the new stretches of the hip- parkway drive surrounding
he oity, much progress is being made and in a short time several more miles of roadway in excellent condition will bp
ipenerl in picturesque spots In the outskirts.
Above on the left is shown a part of the winding road in "The Ravine" which winds around below the Paxtang
>mpttrv through a little vallev. This stretch has just been filled in and will be rolled and put in shape for use in a
ew wee!;s. To the li ft is a big out through eight feet of limestone, with the stone crusher 111 the foreground. All of
lie limestone from this rut was crushed anil used to top other parts of the road, thus saving tile < ity the expense of
■ living the stone ami paving for its hauling. Below is another cut almost one hundred feet in length, part of which
et'iuired h-avv blasting to remove the limestone. The workmen are now busy preparing for the finishing touches. .
C. V. Cross and V. Grant Toner, officials of the City Park Department have large gangs of men employed in order to'
ush the work through for the early summer.
DIRECT MINERS
TO SETTLE WITH
OPERATORS SOON
Subcommittee Has Instructions
to Reach Satisfactory Agree
ment Before May 2
LOCKOUT.CLOAK MAKERS
New York Union Will Retaliate
With a Strike; (>5,000
Affected
By Associated Press
Xcw York, April 28.—Under instruc- ■
tions. if possible, to reach a satisfac- j
tory agreement before May 2, miners j
and mine operators composing a sub- 1
committee of the joint conference com
mittee met here again to-day to en
deavor to adjust the differences over
the miners' demands for recognition of
the union, an eight-hour day and a 1
1 per cent, increase in wages. Pre
vious sessions of the subcommittee
failed io evolve an agreement chiefly |
because the operators refused to in
fContinued on Page 20]
Arranges For Flood of
Antiwar Wires From East;
Congress to Get Letters
By Associated Press
Chicago, 111.. April 28. —J. H. For- '
rests, secretary of the American Km- ;
j burgo Conference, the organization i
! which promoted the campaign to flood j
(Congress with thousands of telegrams
urging thai body to opnose any moves!
which would involve this country in i
jwar and which has opposed the ship- i
• ment of arms to European belligerents, i
- i- in ''hl-ann io-dnv, having come from :
New York.
lie has been in the East, he said,
completing plans for Hie simultaneous
1 sending of anti war telegrams .to
Washington such as were sent from
the Middle West this week. Forrest
j announced that instructions had been
issued to cease sending telegrams from
ithis section of Ihe country, but to fol
low up the campaign by writing letters
to senators and representatives.
Government Narcotic
Officer in City to
Confer on Drug Case
George W. Dress, special govern
ment narcotic officer for the middle
district of Pennsylvania, to-day con
ferred with other Federal authorities
on the Information obtained about the
"dope" dive unearthed yesterday by
City Detectives Shuler and Speese
when four inmates of a disorderly
house in Calder street, were arrested,
and the most complete drug outfit ever
found by the police, included in the
haul.
It is believed by city police that Al
! Bert Wise, one of the men arrested,
had the powdered opium found in a
suitcase outside of his window,
brought hf>rc from Brooklyn, and that
William Byrd acted with Wise. All
of the persons arrested in the case
, are held under heavy bail, to await
, the action of the Federal authorities.
s\o\v IX NI AY ENGLAND
Boston. Mass., April 28.—Snow fell
over eastern Massachusetts and Rhode
Island to-day, the latest date for any
appreciable fall in more than twenty
•< -ven years. The fall here was esti
mated at approximately two inches.
it melted rapidly.
HARRISBURG, PA., FRIDAY EVENING, APRIL 28, 1016.
FIVE BIG B
HOUSES UNITE IN
FLOWER
Enterprising Leaders of Comni ercial Enterprises in Heart of
Harrisburg Join Telegraph's Porch and Window Box Cam
paign; More Announcements Coining in Next Few Days;
Enthusiasm Spreading
The business people of Harrisburg, as they always have done.;
in matters of civic betterment, are responding most generously to j
the Telegraph's requests for volunteers for porch and window box
decorations during the coming summer. The prospects are that
the warm months will sec many downtown buildings perfect bow
ers of plant life and bloom and that next year practically all business
[Continued on Page I]
AUDIENCE WITH
KAISER REGARDED
AS GOOD OMEN
Berlin Financial Circles See
Settlement; (lernrd to Reach
Front Tonight
Washington, I). C., April 28. —
Dispatches received at tlie Ger
man Embassy to-day from the
Berlin Foreign Office indicate that
Germany all attempt to meet
the American demands for the
immediate abandonment of its
present practice in submarine
warfare. The nature of tlie pro
posal- was not disclosed.
Berlin, April 27, 9 p. ni., via 1
don.- Jaine.'' W. Hernrd._the American
ambassador, and Joseph C. Grew, sec- *
retary of the American embassy, left ]
Berlin to-night for German army;
headquarters for an audience with
Emperor William.
[Continued on Page 15.)
ARBOR DAY IS
OBSERVED IN
NEARBY TOWNS
2,000 School Children in Steel
ton Exercises; Big Celebra
tion at Paxlang
Arbor Day exercises of an elaborate :
nature were held in many towns near !
Harrisburg to-day. Pupils in many i
schools presented programs in which j
tree care and love of nature were
featured.
At Steelton 2,000 students presented
Arbor Day programs in their various i
1 rooms this morning and went to Du- 1
titer R. Kelker park, where 130 trees i
were planted this afternono. These
cn Page 15.J J
MEXICAN CHAOS
NOT TAFT LEGACY,!
KNOX DECLARES
Ex-Secretary Says President;
Wilson Repudiated Prede
cessor's Policy
Pittsburgh, Pa.. April 28. The'
foreign policy of the Wilson adminis-1
tration was attacked here last night j
by former Secretary of State Philan- |
der c. Knox and four United States j
I Senators, Penrose and Oliver, of Penn-1
sylvanla; Smith of Michigan, and i
Wadsworth of New York, at the an
nual Grant Day banquet of the Ameri
cus Club, the oldest Republican or- j
ganization in the country.
The banquet, drawing 1,000 cheer-j
| ing partisans to the great banquet i
Thall of Hie new William 1-Vrm Hotel,-
j was a representative Republican gath
; erlng.
Jir. Knox, who was in President 1
| Taft's Cabinet, explained why Mr. I
[Continued on Page o.]
EXPECT 250,000
RUSSIANS TO BE
SENT TO FRANCE
Third Contingent Reaches Mar
seilles; All Is Quiet Around
Verdun v
Another contingent of Russian
j troops has reached Marseilles for ser
i vice on the western front,
i This makes the third contingent j
whose arrival the French military au-1
thorities have permitted to be re-j
ported. As in previous Instances, the!
.strength of the contingent Is withheld, |
i but news dispatches front Marseilles)
' have indicated a belief that as many
i as Russian troops would prob- j
i IContluued ou Page 20J 4
MAY ONLY OPEN
PART OF GREAT
PARKWAY JUNE 1
Completion of Splendid Drive
way Delayed by P. & R, Sub
way Controversy
EX-OFFICIALS TO ADVISE
Former City Park Commission
ers to Help Gross Willi
Problems
Because of the controversy thai has
developed between the City Park De
partment and the Philadelphia and
Reading Railway Company over the
proposed subway construction west of i
Paxtang, it is more than likely that
only that section of the new parkway ,
drive from Derry street to Reservoir
Park can be opened by June 1.
Work on the parkway drive is being
pushed as rapidly as the weather per
mits and the road builders under the
supervision of Allan Paget are now
somewhere within striking distance of
[Continued on Page 3]
House Democrats Believe
Philippine Independence
Measure Will Go Through
By Associated Press
j Washington, April 28.—Democratic
'leaders of the Mouse apparently were
;confident to-day of the passage of the
i Philippine independence bill as a re
j still of the action of the party caucus
last night.
The caucus by a vote of 140 to 33.
approved the Senate bill, although it
i was agreed lo permit an amendment
jin the House to the prohibition sec
tion of ihe measure. Twenty-five
j members declined to be bound by the
I caucus action.
The bill is to be taken up in the
! House immediately after the passage
of the agricultural appropriation bill
[which is expected by to-morrow night
| at the latest.
Pennsylvania R, R. Is
Building Athletic Field;
Deny Rumor of Changes
The Pennsylvania Railroad Com
• pany is building baseball grounds and
| tennis courts in the rear of the Duck
j now shops for the use of employes the
coming summer.
Officials In this city this afternoon
emphatically denied the report that the
company lias in contemplation exten
sive yard and building changes in Ibis
! city involving the removal of more
| shops and possibly one roundhouse lo
: Bucknow and the enlargement of the
classification tracks. They declared
i there is absolutely no truth whatever
I in the rumor.
Penna. Steel Receiving
Orders Totaling 25,000 Tons
j The Pennsylvania Steel Company
has obtained orders for about 25,000
! tons of steel rails during the past
i week. These orders include: Virginia
I Railway, 8,000 tons: Western Mary
l land. 2,000; Jacksonville Terminal,
| :!,000; Chesapeake and Ohio, 10,000;
; Springfield Street Railway and Worces
ter Consolidated Railway (jointly),
! 1,400 tons, and Berkshire Street Rail
| way, 485 tons. The company was also
; low bidder on 2,500 tons for two pier
sheds at West Fifty-sixth street and
| West Fifty-seventh street, New York,
I for the Department of Docks of New
I York.
invnv IN<o\\ \rn nv MII,K-
I,l'lV(is l-'lt.1.101) l-'ROM MOTTLE
Special to the Telegraph
i Altoonu, Pa.. April 2S. Biterallv
j drowned by milk was the fate of Paul,
! the three-week-old son of Mrs. Mazifi
I Krb. of Juniata, at tlie Blair county
I home.
! The c -lid was deposited in its crib
and "Ivcn a bottle of milk, which was
placed upright. The fluid ran into the
! baby's lungs and tilled the air cells.
JAPS CONI'IDF.XT OF V. S.
By Associated Press
\ Tokio, April 28. —Dispatches from
I America concerning Japan's protests
I against the Burnett Immigration bill
i are given prominence by Ihe Japanese
j newspapers, but no anti-American sen
timent has been voiced. The domi
patlng note in the slight press comment
j is a calm confidence that the American
(legislators will nol adopt a law unjust
•to Japanese or offensive to Japanese
Aignily and honor,
21 PAGES CITY EDITION
OBREGON REACHES l
JUAREZ; TO ASK
WITHDRAWAL OF
U. S. EXPEDITION
De Facto Minister of War Is I
Awaiting Conference With
Major Generals Scott and
Funston, Wuo Will Arrive
Tonight
CARRANZA PATROLS TO
PREVENT FURTHER RAIDS
Understood Chief Will Re
peat Declaration That His
Troops Are Amply Able to
Control All Bandit Bands;
Concessions Are Expected
From Both Sides
El Paso. April 28. —General Alvaro
| rtbregon. minister of war of the Mex-!
Mean de facto government Is In Juarez.
! to-day awaiting to confer with Major-
Cinerals Scolt and Funston on the
military questions that are involved
in the American punitive expedition
into .Mexico.
General Obregon. accompanied by
General Jacinto Trevlno, military gov
ernor of Chihuahua. General Samuel
; S. Santos, Governor Knriquez of Chi- .
[Continued on Page 20]
Due to War, Coal Industry
Makes Great Expansion
By Associated Press
New Voi k, April 28.— I The, remarkable
expansion of the coal Industry, due
largely to the (European war is indi
cated by the enormous increase of ton
nage reported by such bituminous roads
siß Norfolk and Western and (Miesa
, peake and Ohio. Norfolk and Western
for March to-day reported an increase
of $1,628,000 i n operating revenue, with
a net gain of $1,132,000. For the nine
months of the fiscal year the net gain
was well in excess of no per cent.
Chesapeake and Ohio for March
showed a gross increase of $1,027,000,
a gain of 111 per cent., while the net
increase of $.'.">0,511 represented an ln
, crease over last year of not less than
• 183 per cent.
e TURKS ANNIHILATE FOUR SQUADRONS T
J Berlin, April 28.—8y Wireless.—Turkish troops annihi- L
£ sn, in a Y
I battle April 23, near Quatia, about twenty-h re miles cast of I
JL the Sue;: Canal. This information was contained in an
T oSi - vt issued by the Turkish War Department under I
J i date of April 27. *
1 T COLUMBUS TROOPS GET MARCHING ORDERS f
% Columbus, N. M.. April 28.—Marching orders were re- c
t V ceived to-day by approximately one-half of the number of #
-1 I soldiers on station here. These troops, largely cavalry will Jb
e | * probal.lv cross the border to reinforce General John J. i
P 1 I Peshing late this aftenoon. L
t| i PILGRIM COMMANDERY INSTALLS OFFICERS J
I Harrisburg.—The following officers were installed last I
£ night by Pilgrim Commandery, No. 11, Knights Templar: >
I Con in ler Sir John Calvin Shumberger; generalissimo, I
i Sir Clyde Paxton Love; captain general, Sir Francis Con-
J ' i ' eel) : treasurer, Sir Howard A. Rutherford; recorder, f
Sir N. Frank Matter; trustees, Sir Michael W. Jacobs, Sir I
s 1 John H. Shoop and Sir Samuel W. Fleming. •
» ' J JITNEY MEN FINED X
'j 1 Harrisburg.—Before Alderman George A. Iloverter this |
| | afternoon, twelve automobile owners were heard, each on a L
1 charge o\ violating the jitney ordinance. — A <?f s*> and f
5 costs war. imposed on conviction. Arthur R. Rupley, coun- I
u | I sel for the auto owners appealed the cases to court. Two f
a t pie id guilty, C. D. Hauck and F. Satz. Those heard and fined £
? were E. E. Ferring, H. W. Sallada, Clayton Webb, Martin 1
!" I J. O'Toolc, R. E. Adair. City Solicitor Daniel S. SeiU, A
o appeared for the city. »;
j GENERAL MANAGER LONG IN TOWN I
N j m Harrisburg.—Superintendent W. B. McCaleb, accom- T
I panied General Manager Long, of the Pennsylvania Rail- I
i road, on a trip over the Philadelphia Division this after- £
i, J noon. Mr. Long came here after an inspection trip west.
i BAii SILVER GOES HIGHER 4
s New York April 28.—Bar silver was quoted at 71% f
j i cents an ounce to-day, the highest price in almost a decade.
* A month ago the quotation was 1
i MARRIAGE LICENSES
I Claude Raymond llnMmiiißcr and Maude Williamson Allirlftlit, city. 1
| J Vance J. !*«»»(, Alumna, and Bridget Clare Kecfe, Hhhl ICHIUHK.
GENERAL WAGE
READJUSTMENT
AT STEELTON
IS ANNOUNCED
Common Labor Increased
From 17 1 2 to 20 Cents an
Hour and Other Employes
Will Be Given Proportion
ate Raise Effective May 1
SECOND JUMP COMES
AS GREAT SURPRISE
Believed Schwab Bonus Sys
tem Was to Be Introduced
and Flat Boost in Earnings
Is Unexpected; 7,000 Men
Affected Says Manager
Bent
Announcement of a pen oral wage
' increase to employes of the Pennsyl
vania Steel Company's Steelton plant
was made by General Manager Quincy
Bent this afternoon.
The rate for common laborers is In
creased from IT'j to 20 cents an hour
and employes of all other departments
are given a proportionate increase,
i About 7,000 men are affected by the
nurease, which becomes effective
; .May 1.
| This is the second wage increase at.
I Steelton in recent months, a new wage
scale which it was announced would
[Continued on l'age 111
GOF.K VP nvi: MILKS
By Associated I'rcss
London. April 2S. Harry G.
llawWcr made a world's altitude rec
ord in an aeroplane at ilrooklands on
i Veduesday, according to an an
nouncement made by the Aero Clnb
here. Hawker ascended to a height
i; of 24,408 feet.
The greatest height attained by any
' aviator was 25.756 feet by Heinrich
: Oelrich. a German, in 1914. This feat,
however, according to available data,
i has not been recognized by the Royal
i Aero Club.
