J I V
I H
I Iron County Record. I
I WITH WHICH IS CONSOLIDATED "THE OBSERVER." I
& R, - - - . : . H
1 . III ...I. MM ill.. " '' " ' ' ' ' ' ' - " ' - - - -.,--- """"' M
i W, VOLUME XXIII $1.50 PER YEAR . CEDAR CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY, APRIL 23, 1016. 5 CTS. PER COPY. NUMBER 20.
St tH
it - wa mm
I COUPLES FREED
K Divorce Proceedings Occupy Much
tr m Attention at Recent Session of
i j District Court.
a ' '
-i jli Pnrowan, Utah, April 26, 1910.
Up District Court convened in this city
; Jy last Wednesday morning at 10 o'clock,
,3 m, adjourning the following Tuesday
1 g morning. The following cases received
iK attention:
gV- Edna EvnnB vs. John O. Evans. In-
ki terlocutory decree granted, awarding
, plaintifT custody of minor child, $25
Tl if. per month alimony, $50 attorney's fee
"' V and cost of action.
' n Louie Paddock vs. Myrtle Paddock.
j " Interlocutory decree of divorce grnnt-
, ed and custody of children given to
)i the father.
i Bertha Irene Hutchison Hazard vs.
: Ira Hap Hazard. Interlocutory decree
J of divorce and custody of minor child-
I l ren granted to plaintiff.
I r Merlin Rasmusscn vs. J. Clayton
fa ' Rasmussen. Interlocutory decree of
( ' divorce granted, awarding the plain-
t, tiff custody of minor child, $50 attor-
j I ney's fee, $25 per month permanent
', Z, alimony and $12 for cost of nction.
Urana Jones McDonald vs. Whitney
McDonald. Interlocutory decree of
divorce granted and custody of minor
- child given to plaintiff.
1 ' John Parry, et nl., vs. Carlos Stev-
tens, et al. In keeping with the stipula
tion filed with the parties in which it
wm is agrcd that the matter in litigation
v between the parties was to be sub
? mitted to three arbitrators or parties.
' C The Court appointed Heber C. Jenson
and William V. Walker of Cedar City
and Wilford Day of Parowan. In the
event that either of the parties named
fe. will not be able to accept the appoint
or ment the following named persons are
It appointed as alternates: ' Elias M.
J Corry of Cedar City and William
: Mitchell and Wm. H. Lyman of Par
K.;. owan. It was further ordered that if
Hp the appointee, Wilford Day of Paro
LL wan will not act, then the name of
3BE William Mitchell may be substituted.
;yK And in case of one of the parties from
WW Cedar City not being willing to act,
lr W' ne name of Elias M. Corry of Cedar
lfc 'f ' borne and George Hunter. Search and
If ' Belziire of intoxicating liquors. The
" case was continued for the term by re-
1, quest of the defendant's counsel and
Ik consent of District Attorney E. H.
1 Ryan. . n ,
fc Coal Creek Coke and Coal company
VaC jl V8 Ernest Green. Case continued for
IVT term.
afr Bernando Rowland vs. Ernest Green,
in This case was submitted to the Court
w without argument for ruling on plam-
r 3 tiff's demurrer to defendant's answer.
Pf Demurrer overruled.
Br,: William D. Leigh vs. George Wood.
SV Motion for judgment entered by plain-
' f-te tiff's counsel, was denied by the Court.
'flfe These constituted all the important
' mf cases. Some minor matters were
js m passed for the term.
f W REPUBLICAN DELEGATES
l TO PROVO CONVENTION.
I' In pursuance of instructions from
I the county chairman, Chas. D. Adams.
I i and notice given by the local precinct
I V organization, the Republicans of Ce-
I K dar City met in primary at the Ly-
I I brary auditorium last Wednesday ev-
1 I ening and elected three delegates and
1 three alternates to the Republican
I state and congressional district con-
1 ventions to be held in Provo next Mon-
I day, May 1. The attendance was not
1; large at the primary, but the follow-
1 ing delegates and alternates were
m. olected:
i Delegates John H. Corry, Henry
I Leigh and Mrs. Ada Wood Webster.
I. Alternates S. J. Foster, Richard
A. Thorley and C. S. Wilkinson.
Henry Leigh and J. H. Corry have
reported their inability to attend the
conventions, and Alternates S. J.
r ; Foster and C. S. Wilkinson have been
i " asked to fill their places on the dele
ft gation.
' ' The election of tho dolegates and
i alternates was tho only business to
be brought before the primary.
i i
i There seems to be quite a little
I , ,, -sickness abroad in the land Just at
1 f'M. present, which takes the form of se-
B Vero colds, particularly in the head,
i , lu grippe, hoarsness and other com-
1 ; . La, nltcutions. which form a combination
1 T T-V-j which makes ono feel like they wanted
1 " W to crawl off to some secluded spot and
& Vs givo np tlie ghost. The editor and
1 ! the foreman of Tho Record havo both
1 P been enjoying this luxury this week,
I and with about two or three times the
ig ,.' regular run of work In tho office-, it
I . has been anything but pleasunt. The
I Record, as a result, ib a few hours
n late and somewhat below par, but we
j HL will try to gain our equalebrium and
'JP do better next week.
1 A A number of Cedar City sheep
l f shearers ure leaving for Iron Springs
1 , where work will begin tomorrow
1 , I morning on tho spring clip. Tho sheep
I S of the local companies as well as many
1- V arivato individuals will btj telactt Ui
I r foy tot &:
ILLICIT LIQUOR
DEALERS IN TOILS
Oniccrs Make Two AneslH With Oth
ers to Follow One Offender Gets
150 Days in County Jail.
The ominous muttcrings in relation
to the securing of evidence for the
prosecution of a number of illicit liq
uor cases, found its first open utter
ance yesterday morning in the arrest
of J. M. Bladen of the Palace Drug
Store on a charge of selling liquor
illegally. Mr. Bladen was arraigned
before Justice Palmer and entered a
plea of "Not guilty," and was admitted
to bail in the sum of $500 to appear
for his trial.
Last evening Sheriff Corry and City
Marshal Nelson went out to Lund and
placed under arrest George Rivers,'
who was charged with u similar of
fense. They brought tho defendant
to Cedar City with them, and in Jus
tice Palmer's court ho entered a plea
of guilty this morning and was sen
tenced to 150 days in the county jail.
It is whispered that evidence has
also been collected for other prosecu
tions throughout the (iounty, and the
wrongdoers are wondering where the
strong arm of the law will fall next.
Contrary to custom in the past, the
evidence has been obtained by local
persons, without the importation of a
professional detective. It it under
stood that the net of evidence has
been made flawless, and that the ac
cused will have small chance, indeed,
of slipping through.
With all other law-abiding citizens,
The Record regrets that a condition
exists in the county which makes such
prosecutions necessury, but we feel to
commend the good work of the officers
in bringing tho offenders to justice.
STATEMENT
Of Ownership, Management, Etc., of
Tfce Iron County Record, for
April 1, 1916.
Name of publisher, editor, manag
ing editor and business manager,
Charles S. Wilkinson.
Owned by the Iron County Publish
ing Company, a corporation.
Stockholders in said company own
ing one per cent or more of the capi
tal stock: Chas. S. Wilkinson, Joseph
T. Wilkinson, Anna M. Cox, Geo. W.
Middlcton, Geo. W. Decker, L. W.
Jones, P. N. Wilkinson, and A. H.
Rollo.
Bond holders, mortgagees, etc.,
holding one per cent, or more of the
securities: Bank of Southern Utah,
Cedar City, Utah, and Mcrgenthaler
Linotypo Company, of New York City.
Signed by CHAS. S. WILKINSON,
Publisher.
Subscribed and sworn to before J.
H. ARTHUR, Notary-Public.
- Relatives in Cedar City received this
week very elaborate and exquisite
cards, formally announcing the mar
riage of Miss Gladys Lyon, formerly
of Salt Lake City, but now of Los An
geles, to Mr. David Proctor Stafford,
also of that place. Miss Lyon is a
daughter of Dr. and Mrs. F. J. Lyon,
widely known in southern Utah, nnd
having a number of relatives in this
locality. Mr. Stafford is a young man
of excellent family and character, and
moves in the upper class of society.
Everything seems propitious for a
happy union, and The Record extends
congratulations and best wishes to the
young people.
Wonder if nothing is going to be
done again this spring in regard to
the moving of the light and telephone
poles from tho center to the side of
Main Btreet? We thought last fall
that it was all settled that this change
waB to be made this spring, but there
does not appear to be anything doing
in regard to the matter.
SUMMIT.
Summit, Utah, April 26, 191G.
William Smith of this place is hav
ing two new rooms added to his house,
which will greatly add to tho appear
ance and convenience.
Quite a number of our men are em
ployed on the road down by Walkers
farm and on the Big Hollow, where
tho high water does quite a lot of damage.
Herbert Whito is now the proud
owner of a Studebakor car, which he
purchaaod from L. N. Clarsdon, and
will soon be sailing over the road with
tho rest
-
Last week two deaths occurred in
our little town, which some think is
very unusual. Littlo Ramona, the sev
en weeks old baby of Mr. and Mrs
Isaac Chamberlain, died on tho 20th
The little one had not boon well since
birth. Olive, the seven years old
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. B. R. Law
rence, passed away at 1:30 p. m. on
the 22nd, after a severe illness of n
.bout two weeks. Our sympathy (jooe
DECISION RENDERED
ON LONDTOWNSITE
Townsitc Interests Obtain Decision
from Secretary of Interior, Can
celling Private Entries.
A decision has recently been rend
ered by the Secretary of the Interior
in the matter of the Lund Townsitc
contest, which has been on for the
past two or thrpe years. The decision
of the Secretary sustains in main the
decision of tho land office previously
given, and is in favor of the inhabi
tants asking for the townsitc, and by
which the whole of the Carter entry
nnd a considerable portion of the Root
entry is cancelled.
District Attorney E. II. Ryan has
represented the townsite interests in
the matter.
A number of complications, affect
ing and 'changing the ownership of
certain town improvements, have aris
en nnd nodoubt have had a great deal
to, do with the matter dragging on for
so long a time.
Miss Carrie Leigh has returned
from teaching school; also Byron Ahl
strom has returned from Beryl, where
he has been teaching.
The weather has turned quito cold
again. It is quite ovidont that tho
weather man has gotten our March
and April weather supply just a littlo
mixed up.
There have been a number of de
lays m the work over at :he swimming
pool, which has delayed its completion,
somewhat, but from last reports it
is to be ready for use by the end of
next week.
On the afternoon of April 20th, Mrs
E. Crane Watson was much pleased
to receive a telegram announcing the
arrival that day of a nine pound grand
son in California, Nevada W. and
Burton W. Driggs being the happy
parents.
Samuel Bell returned from Sain.
TGe'rgohlSn!rtl?rwhwlweaU.a
day or two In the interests of the
Overland car, for which ho has thp
agency in this section of the country..
He reports the sale of four cars while
there, which are to bo delivered in the
very near future.
Mrs. J. S. Christensen and son spent
the first of the week in Cedar City,
visiting with Coach Christensen and
renewing acquaintances. They were
nccompanied oy Mrs. Whitaker of
Circleville, mother of Mrs. Christen
sen. The party returned home last
Thursday.
Easter Sunday was observed in the
usual way, a number making trips up
the canyon and to local picnicing
grounds. The Primary associations
also rendered an interesting and in
structive program at tho tabernacle
during tho afternoon session, while
Easter stories and suggestions were
tho subject of the mornings work in
tho Sunday schools.
Randle W. Lunt has leased the Jones
& Bulloch coal mine and intends work
ing it on a more extensive scale than
heretofore, and It is tho expectation
to keep the mino In almost constant
operation. Permanent work will be
done so that the mountain can be pene
trated to a greater distance, and a
better grade of coal is promised.
Guy Martin, an expert draftsman
from Salt Lake has been assisting
Architect Jones with a rush of work
the past few weeks. Mr. Jones re
ports that his business Is Increasing
so fast of late that he is unable with
out assistance, to keep paco with it.
He mentioned a long list of new res
idences and business buildings for
which ho is preparing the plans and
specifications, the list including the
new business block for the Cedar
Sheep Association, the residences to
be erected by the Smiths, Swapps and
others.
NEW HARMONY.
New Harmony, Utah, April 24, 1910.
A short timo ago Elder George
Spllsbury of Toquervllle expressed a
desire to visit the Harmony Sunday
School once more, and it being his
birthday on the 21st Inst, the super
intendent qf our Sunday School sent
an invitation for him to visit us on
Easter Sunday. He and his son David
came, and the members of tho Sunday
School and others met at the meeting
house at nine-thirty and were taken
in autos to a beautiful groen spot,
which the superintendent and his aids
had prepared, when all were assem
bled, Sunday School was held, Brother
Spilsbury and his son taking up most
of tho time in talking to the children.
They then had a delicious lunch and
returned to town for tho sacramental
meeting. Bro. Snilsbury Is 93 years
old nnd is In perfect health.
Grant Hale and Josephine Kelsey
will bo married in tho St. Georgo tem
ple Wednosday, April 20. They havo
tho congratulations of their many
friends.
Those from this place who attended
tho opera presented by tho Dixlo
Academy at Cedar City eov It
B. A. C. TRACK '
TEAIJCTORIOUS
Takes First Place in Division Track
nnd Field Meet Just Held al
Saint George.
The news is received here this even
ing from St. George by telephone that
tho B.. A..C. took first nnd the Dixie
Academy second in the district track
meet that hus been held there today.
Particulars in regard to tho score
ore lacking, but this will give the B.
A. C. the privilege of participating in
the state tournament at Salt Lake
City this spring, in which the school
entertains strong hopes of capturing
first place.
We nlroady havo the basket ball
championship for this yeur, and if wu
secure tliu track championship, it will
certainly be u feather in our caps.
The regular meeting of the board
of County Commissioners will be held
at tho county sent next Monday.
Royal Roid nnd J. H. Arthur havo
taken a year's lease on tho north front
room in The Record building, and arc
getting tho quarters in shape for occu
pancy today. Tho front part of tho
room will be used by Mr. Reid as an
electrical shop, and Mr. Arthur will
have office accommodations in tho
rear. They will be arranged very
cosily.
Mr. Amasa Clark, president of the
national Sheep Shearers' Association
of America, with headquarters at
Butte, Mont., passed throug Cedar
City the first of the week en route to
tho shearing pens at Gould's and Ft.
Pearcc, in tho Dixio country. He is
looking and feeling well, and stated
that until his term of office expires in
July next, he will mnkc his headquar
ters in Salt Lake City. Ho is to be
back here within a day or two, when
ho will tako time to shako hands with
moro of his friends in this locality.
Ernest Winn, ono of Scrowcroft's
efficient traveling salesmen, and who
iOBJdej.atAtoicanEork,iB Jntb.fi,.
citytodav exhibiting TiTsTInbXc-an-r'
City business houses, and incidentally
dropped in to rcnow his subscription
to Cedar City's very best newspaper.
"No, I haven't any property Interests
hero," snid Mr. Winn, "but I have a
great many friends hero whom I like
to keep track of. But don't put my
name In the paper, because my wife
will boo it. She reads The Record
moro than I do."
Mr. Rass Gardner, who owns a Bu
ick car and is attending the B. A. C.
this winter, accompanied by his broth
er Clair, went out to Newcastle and
Enterprise Inst week Friday and
brought in a party of five passengers
to attend the Dixie Academy opera,
returning with them Sunday. Tho
following made up the party: Miss
Altca Gregerson, Miss Rachel Moody,
Wlllard Canfield, Miss Jennlo Nelson
and Miss Mary Knell. Mr. Gardner
met with an accident coming back, a
high center putting his oil pump out
of commission, and he required the
assistance of Dr. Kopp to get his car
into town.
Doctor Leonard has his tennis
courts all completed now, enclosed
with a high wire net fence, ground.3
properly marked off and everything
completed. Playing commenced lnt
Wednesday evening, and has formsd
quite an attraction for tho young peo
ple. A tennis club is being formed,
the members of which will pay a foo
of $2.50 per annum, and in addition
tho privilege of tho courts will be
rented to non-members at tho rac of
10c. per hour.
Mr. C. F. Emery of the State Board
of Health was hero tho first of this
week stirring up the local city officers
In relation to the clean town move
ment. Mr. Emery stated that during
the nast six years four-fifths of the
typhoid fever had been eliminated
from the state as a result of the clean
town movement, and that there was
no reason why it cannot be wipod out
entirely. Mr. Emery also paid a visit
to Parowan while here.
This is a busy time of tho year for
tho farmer. The ground is in good
condition for plowing and working,
it is seeding time, and all the harvest,
ing machinery must bo gotten ready
for use a little later on. In addition
to this there is manure to haul, onto
the land, animals to attend to, ditches
to clean out and the multitude of oth
er odd jobs that arc always waiting
for the farmer. Not much danger of
tho farmers getting into mischief at
this seaoon of tho year.
County Road Commissioner H. C.
Jenson left for the Wostern portion of
the county tho first of this week to
look into tho road needs out there,
and to report to the commissioners at
their next meeting. At Newcastle Mr
Jenson would be joined by Commis
sioner Knell, who would go over the
situation with the road man.
The B. A. C. Lyceum attraction,
tho Salt Laka Opera Quintet Is on at
the B. A. C. auditorium, and judging
from the advance salo of seats then
will bo n big crowd out. From hero
the quintet will go to St. George, Sam
Bell having been oueaeod to Uws tkoto
WW OMNPfitrr,
. - . ?. .I --- Hiiiiiiimirn i
MR. T. G. HOYT. I
IHHHEBHIIfllflHE k !wIHMIHBB9BIh IH
Herewith is presented u cut of Mr. I
T. C. Hoyt, a former resident of the
southern counties of the State, who
will bo ono of the candidates before
the Republican District convention of
tho First Congressional District of
tho State of Utah, to convene in Pro
vo next Monday, for congrcsionnl hon
ors. Mr. Hoyt is another native of
the south who hus made good, und
attained to an enviable placo with a
department of tho government, nnd
now seks to broaden his sphere of ac
tivity and usefulness by a seat in the
national congress.
With this ambition in mind, Mr.
;Hi?yh,t6wJ;&iiiii
the forestry department of tho gov
ernment. A Successful Career.
Mr. Hoyt entered the Forest Scrv
ico in November, 1905, at St. George,
going from Konab to tako up work or
the Dixie Forest. The following sum
mer he was placed in chnrgo of thr
Sovier Forest, with headquarters al
Parowan and later at Panguitch. For
a while in 1906-7 ho hnd charge of
both the Sevier and Dixio Forests.
In April, 1908, ho was detailed tr
Washington where his general know
ledge of western conditions and know
ledge of law wero recognized. When
the district offices wero established ho
was assigned to the office nt Ogdcn
as Assistant Law Officer and Chief of
the section of Occupancy, nnd directed
and assisted in the land studies and
investigations which have formed the
basis of the Department's regulations
nnd instructions dealing with that
phase of its work. Promoted to the
.office of Assistant District Forester
March, 1910. His efforts brought a
bout the amendment to tho law to
mako it possible for Forest officers to
survey homesteads in tho forests.
I thereby relieving tho settlers of thnt
responsibility and expense. During
tho period of connection with tho
work and while in charge of It, moro
than two thousand tracts havo been
listed for homesteads in the national
forests in tho Fourth district. Sig
nificant of tho thoroughness with
which this work has been done is the
fact that every decision has been sus
tained by the Chief Forester and Sec
retary of Agriculture. This record is
attributed to .close attention to de
tails and unsparing efforts to get nt
facts firBt hand, necessitating a great
amount of travel and much of it under
difficulties and in the remotest por-
An Interesting Visitor.
Last Saturday The Record hnd a
very pleasant visit from Mr. C. II.
Hobbs, who has a homestead entry
near Latimer, this county, and has
been teaching school thcro tho past
winter, moro ns n matter of amuse
ment and occupation than a necessity.
Mr. Hobbs Is a genllcmnn past CO
years of oge; nnd is a very intelligent
and interesting character. Ho be
lieves that tho salvation of the Esca
lanto desert is tho reservoirs of water
beneath, tho curface of tho ground,
in tho oxistenco of which he has faith
amauntirig to posltlvo knowledgo, nnd
uftcr a short visit In California with
his family it iB his intention to return
and put down n 10 inch well on his
property, which Is only half a mile
east of the railroad tracks. Mr.
Hobbs was agreeably surprised to find
tho people of this region quito com
parable with those of other sections
of the country; particularly the Mor
mon people, who wero supposed, from
the wild Btorles in circulation in the
world, to be principally all polytni
mists, and a very lawless, murderous
set.
After associating with the peoplo
of this county, ho hnd formed a very
tttVMMt otfeuba of tbu "Moraonu."
tions of the district, cmbrucing por- , M
tions of six states. In 1912 Congress M
passed tho law directing tho elasHifi-
cation of all tho lands in tho national
forests, to dctcrmino tho location and H
extent of thoso suited to agricultural M
use. Early in 11)11$ ut Land Classifl-
cation conference of tho ofllcnls of the
department Mr. Hoyt took a prominent IB
part in outlining tho plans for tho ac- H
complishmcnt of this task, and later, H
during detail to tho Washington of- 11
ficc, he assisted in revising thn in- gh
structions that had been prepared. In 11
the conduct of this , work ho has 11
passed upon tho classification of more 11
than twenty-two million acres and H
has been personally upon the ground H
to check tho stntoments and conclu- 3H
sions in every roport. 11
ICeopingAtrjiekoLJeKislation-affecfer, , -W-!4JH
ThfTtho ork'Dfnho-fordst,,3ervice,'haB . .r r"" !?H
been part of his duties, in which ca- H
pneity suggesting amendments and
reporting on pending bills 1ms afforded , H
opportunity to accomplish much in tho lH
wny of adapting legislation nnd simp- JM
ing the department's policies to nc- aB
tunl western conditions and the wel- 11
fnro of tho people affected. IB
Forester Expresses Appreciation. ' M
In his letter answoring the notico M
of resignation, Chief Forester Graves, M
says: M
"Your leaving tho service is a , M
matter of keen regret to mo and to pj
tho men in tho Washington office,
who have had opportunity to come
into personal association with you
and who know of the valuable con- IS
structive help you havo given in H
advancing tho Lands Laws work of
the service. You havo 'ieo'1 lecog- iffl
nlzcd as contributing in a large do- jIH
grco to tho establishment of this iM
. work on strong nnd lasting founda- !
tions nnd this fact is known and ap- !
predated to the utmost throughout :M
tho service."
Previous to entering tho govern- jfH
ment service, Mr. Hoyt had been ad- M
mitted to the bar and practiced law in M
the southern part of tho state, and 'B
served a term as prosecuting attorney M
of Kane county, in which office his M
former career as a cow-boy and his M
knowledge of tho country and of IH
methods of stock handling contribute . m "V.
cd much toward ridding the border M
counties of cattle rustlers, M
Mr. Hoyt will open a law office in H
Ogdcn, specializing in land law, in M
which profession legal knowledge, M
coupled with familiarity with depart-
mental practico and wide range of M
knowledge of conditions throughout vl
the west, should assure a career of v M
marked success. Adv.
LIBRARY NOTES. H
Recent gifts to tho public library SS
are as follows: "The Young Miner," Wi
"Five Thousand an Hour," and "Ivan- Sfi
hoe," presented by Richard Richards fzl
Stephens; Elliot's "Moddlomarch," M
given by Rachel Bryant. Other books !
added aro "Parliamentary Usanro for " Wfh
Women" and "Club Women's Handy 'gV3
Book of Programs," etc. $
To tho rental shelves havo been jJkJ
added, "Little Lady of the Big House" Ml
by London, and "K" by Roberts. v"Vd&
A new magazine to bo found on our "
tablo is tho Illustrated World. .$
Tho making if a cai'd catalogue, . " jH&
dictionary plan, is well in hand and ' 2KSj
the B. A. C. students will find it ready , g
for use, as well as a great advantage . WSk
to them at tho beginning of tho next J
school year, JU
, fl
With all Carnegie libraries John D. fl
Rockerfollor, Jr., has sunt us with ,M
his compliments a copy of the Colora- 1J
do Industrial Tlan, including a copy
of the plan of representation and a- , :S
greoment adopted at tho coaland Iron " '
juIikxj of Uw OotowMJo Fuer&'Iron Oo.
-LUaUKLAJr. , M
