9
Dtalaf Wats
9.t9 Pun
Uovsrnm't Test
nrrm
1
BEMIM Q GRAPHIC
Darning Air .
100 per et. Pur
Breathing Test
A LIVE PAPER IN A LIVE TOWN
VOLUME XIV, KUMBEB XXXV
DEMING, LUNA COUNTY, NXW tCXICO, FRIDAY, APRIL 28, 1016.
FIVE CENTS T11L COPY
m v.ill K m
i;i top :m
Mexican Bandits ConvletMl of Mur
dor' in Connection With Colum
. but RaW Will Die Kay 19.
WERE TAKEN TO SANTA FE
Largest Criminal Docket in History
f County Adds Largely to State
Penitentiary's Population.
The spring term of (he district
court for the Bixth Judicial Dislric
adjourned Tuesday morning after
the filing of several imMirtnnt nrd
era by Judge E. L. Medler. Monday
evening Sheriff V. C. Simpson aim
Ave deputies, having charge of nine
teen prisoners, departed for the Mate
penitentiary at Santa Fe. Seven of
the prisoners, Juan Range), Eusnvlo
Rentenn, Taunno Garcia, Jos Rndn
guez, Francisco Alsares, Juan Castil
In, and Juan Sanchez, were foun
guilty last week of murder in tliu
first degree, having participated in
the Villa raid on Columbus on March
0. The prisoner were scntcn I
Into Monday afternoon and will be
hung May 10, sometime between the
hours of 6 o'clock in the morning
and 0 o'clock in the evening at the
county jail. None of the unfortn
nate men showed weakness when
, justice was meted nut to thetii, mivc
Juan Rangel, who could not rent ruin
hia tears as he wns being carried nut
on the cot on which he has lain mure
being brought into court because of
the wound he sustained during the
memorable raid from tho rifle of nn
American soldier. The deputies i.
charge of the Villistas are Sim Hid
stein, Fred Sherman, Jim Ken lev
Jim Diciidonne, D. . Snodgress und
R. R. Faulkner.
Francisco Acosla, one of the nine
teen to be taken to Santa Fc, was
Inst Friday found guilty of murder in
the second degree and was hoi.
fenced to serve from twenty to thirty
vein in the state penitentiary for
the killing of a Mexican lnborer lint
winter at Spalding following
drunken brawl. He wns one of t It-.
juil breaker participating in the gun
fight near Rineon in which Sheriff
I). B. Stephens was killed. He win
acquitted of a charge of murder
that connection at Las Cruces fol
lowing his capture by a posse in I
Ana county.
Others sentenced and taken to Sau
ta Fe by the officers are: Roland
Robinson, larceny, one year in tin-
state penitentiary; Richard Dim
larceny, one year in the sato M-ni-
( Continued on page 2)
The Rev. E. C. Morgan has been
suffering for the past week with a
severe attack of tonsilitis. He was
unable to attend the quarterly con
fenenoe, but hopes to be able to
preach next Sunday.
Dr. S. D. Swope left the city the
early part of the week for Phoenix,
Aril., when he will attend a medical
association convention.
Walter Clark motored up from the
Tres Hermanns mining district Wed
nesday. E. W. Latham was in the city thu
week from big ranch. Ilis brother,
Oeorge Latham was a visitor in the
town home.
Frank Richardson was in from the
Phillip ranch near Lanark this
week. Mrs Richardson, who has
been a guest in the Phillips home,
returned to the ranch with her husband.
INVITES TO VISIT PUSLIC .
LISSARY NEXT WEEK HERE
The publio library will be open
every day during Chautauqua week
between the hours of 1 JO and 2 JO
o'clock in the afternoons. Thia is to
enable everyone that visits the as
sembly to inspect the library and
see wbnt the woman's club has iu
compelled.
Tho library bus been in existence!
a little more thnu n year, and in that
time bus made a gain of more than
1,200 books, beginning with 000.
The selection covers a wido range of
reading to suit almost every taste.
To library is a Luna county instt-
tution and the books are free to
all. It is the wish of the library
committee that everyone avail liim
self of the opportunity offered foi
free rending matter. Both books und
magazines are issued.
The library committee reports the
addition of ten new books as follows:
"Seventeen," by Booth Tnrkington;
"The Rudder," by Mary S. Watts.
"BVltoire the Smith," by Jpffry Far-
ner "Nan, by Frank Kpenrninn:1
BO OH
ST.STS A CLoy
Prim to bo Offoied for Host At
tractive Yards In "City Beauti
ful and Clean-no Campari.
MANY PRIZES FOR fiAKS
Appeal by Secretary Lane to Pro
mote the Planting of Trees and
Shrubs in City of Doming.
"Return of Dr. Fu Mnnehu," by Snx
Runnier; "The Abyss," by Nathan
KiiNHcy; "Stover ut Yale," bv Owei,
Johnson; "Bambi," by Marjorie B.
(noke; "Cnensy Money, by P. O.
Wnilc house; "From Pillar to Post,"
by J. K. B. Bangs; "Dnddv Long-
cgs." by Jean Webster; "Mother,"
by Kathleen Noris.
(By If. A. Lnne)
Americans of the present genera
tion have eoiiic to the realiiation
that there is more to life 'than mere
money inii king. What is great wealth
if one does not know how to enjoy
mid get pleasure out of itf
We are supplying ourselves with
DO WATER MAY BE USED TO
CHRISTEN IATEST BATTLESHIP
the niiKwer to this question bv
wave of interest in landscape gar
dening and street cleaning, alleys an
vacant lots.
Within the past few years we han
learned to enjoy our homes and to
learn what a home should be. When
we speak of a home, we think of a
dwelling, whether large or small,
nestling in a planting of arching
shade trees and surrounded by bean
liful flowering shrubs, with an ex
panse of green lawn, nil of which
gives pleasing setting for the hous
We think of the flowering rose
V. McKeyes Succeeded in Getting ! nr,u'n' w,'i,h ,",h". th
'lentirn fnnnlc a Ihiiilr nf ilia iwi-
Tk.....k B...I..II.. I. Bl.l. B. " f"-
iiiiumv" nesumiio oiaie ne- vnte portion or the grounds which is
publican Convention at Albuquer- essentially an out-of-doors living
room. I turn surrounded by naturt
and beautiful growing plants, we
lenrn what true enjoyment of the
home can he.
Another important reason why the
Iioiiik should he attractive is to in
terest the children. With a pleasant
1 1 1 a lllirl nil lllf AMCtlilll rm rl n .hj!
.t.i. ..i.i:-.... .,.: i a -i " ).
emir wifii . ; v via i iuii iw viiifubu r .... . . i ;i j . a .
,. . ... u. n, the children are apt to stay
ni-l.iiriil.ia In t hn imlintinl wnmitilimi i, . .... . '
closer under the influence of home
e.
Grown-ups, as well as children,
like to spend their spnre moments
with nature. If this were not true,
we would have no parks or garden,.
In the spring time one gets a
touch nf spring in the human system
and there is a strong desire to plant
something just to see it grow. Ev
eryone experiences this feeling at
least once a year in the spring
and with the most of us the desire
to always spend our leisure near to
nature is ever present, because ther
in the garden and "out-of-doors liv-
ing room" wo know we will find re
crenl ion, privacy and rest from the
st n-nuoUR) business life.
que That Aroused Great interest.
B. Y. McKeyes, Frank DcLauney,
jr., and Dr. ( . I.. Kelts returned
Tuesday morning from Alhuqiiorque
where they went as delegates to the
delegates to the national republican
convention that moots in June in Chi-
cage, tney nre on enmusinstio
Roosevelt supporters and nre exprcs
ing themselves ns hnppy to have
H-en instrumental in tho choosing of
New Mexico delegation Hint will
be for Roosevelt's nomination for the
presidency on tho rcpublionn ticket.
The state convention has iinbndicd in
resolutions, together with more
important mutters from u political
Hiint of view, a clause urgently ask
ing that the new battleship New Mex
ico he christened with Doming 90.00
nter. The suggestion aroused great
uthusinsm in the convention. j
Composing their differences after
ho fashion of their party, the dele
gates in the afternoon nnd evening
eld one of the most hnrmonious and
enthusiastic meetings in the recnl
eetiou of the oldest inhnhitant.
Do not fail to enter the City Beau
tiful contest by Ailing a & eouputt
and bringing it to the eahmebr of
commerce.
The rules governing the contest are
as follows :
1 There is no entry fee. The eon-
test is absolutely free to everybody.
- Anyone ean enter, man, woman
or child, but only one entry will be
aeaspted from each family, except
that one boy and one girl in a family
may enter vegetables and flower
contest.
3 The age limit of the boys and
girls that enter the vegetable and
flower contest is eighteen.
4 If an alley adjoins a property
it is required to be kept neat and
clean, and the city ordinances with
relation to garbage and refuse strict
ly complied with.
A The entries are divided into the
following classes:
Class 1 Those that do their own
work.
2 Those that hire part of their
work done.
ciass j inose tnnt maintain a
hired man.
4 Vegetable and flower contest
in which the boys and girls do nil
of their own work.
6 The contests will close Sept.
30, 1910. The prir.es in classes 1, 2,
and 3 will be awarded Friday, Oct.
6, 1016. The prizes in class 4 will In
awarded June 15, July 1ft, Aug. 15,
and Sept. 15.
7 Entries in the contests will be
received between April 15 nnd Mnv
Entries will close nt 0 p. m., Mny
ft.
8 Cash prizes in class 1 will be
awarded as follows: First prize
$25, second prize $15, third prize$10,
fourth prize $7, fifth prize $5, sixth
prize $4, seventh prize $.1, eighth
prise 2, and ninth prize $1.
9 Handsome certificates will 1e
awarded to the winners of the Hrst
five places in each of classes 2 and.1.
10 ( ash prizes will be awarded
each month to both the hoys and
girls entered in the vegetable and
flower contest ns follows: first
prize, $2, second prize $1, and third
prize 50c.
CITY EOOSTERS f.TADE
AlaTUSTUV
Motored to Santa Rita, Hurley, Sil
ver City, and Other Points to
Boost Chautauqua Assembly.
LATCH STRING WAS FOUND OUT
Citizens of Prosperous Mining Com
munities Desire Closer Commer
cial Relations with Doming.
HIGH SCHOOL 8EK0S TRACK
TEAM TO ALBUQUERSUE
Carlton Clark, Frank Steed and
Roy Ruebusb are the members of the
local high school track team selected
to compete at Albuquerque with the
j high school teums from other cities
of the state ut the University of New
Mexico for truck -and field honors.
The boys left the city yesterday
and the meet will be held today. The
contestants have hopes of winning
places in the distunce runs, the hurd
les and the sprints.
Judge Colin Neblett was in Deming
yesterday enroute to his home in
Silver City.
Mouday a number of good Deming
boosters made a trip to Hurley, Sau -ta
Rita, Fort Bayard, Silver City,
Fierro, and Hanover in the interest
of the Luna county cbautauquu
which opens here May 2 and is in
session until May 8. The boosters
took a large quantity of literature
with them and spread it broad cast
with an urgent invitation for all with
in easy reach of Deming to attend tho
excellent numbers of the program
which has been prepared. At the!
present time nhoulli half ot the re- fit Luke's Guild
Carl Ilinton was in Deming Wed
nesday from Silver City where be U
the live-wire secretary of the Hill
City commercial club.
Col. Bryan has not volunteered to
go donw and teach Villa the practic
al benefits of a policy of unresist-
unce.
Bridge
Mrs. Frank Thurmond, Mrs. Alle
Stccker, nnd Miss Peddichck will en
tertain with an evening bridge party
Monday evening.
Si. Luke's Guild will meet Monday,
May Day, with Mrs. K. P. York fit
her home on I'ine street.
quired 000 tickets have been sold unit
the committee in charge of the sel
ling intends to see to it that every
one is sufficiently urged to buy be
fore the opening day when the re-j
,-ipts go to tl, ehau.anqua company, K5H KtVUL I ADDS 10 BIHIISH
SI'S regions am,; TROUBLES IN GREAT WORLD WAR
its interesting communities was botul
pleasant and profitable, a Inrgej
number of those visited promising to Uncertain Yet Whether or not Ger-
aitcnd part or all of the program.! many Will Comulv With American
All hut one ear succeeded in geetiug
through. Those that mado the trip
are. rrank .Nordlinus, Mrs. f rank
Xnrdhnus, Mrs. R. C. Hoffman, Miss
Ornh Harkness, H. A. Lane, Mrs.
H. A. Lane, Ralph Lynd, Miss Bchee,
Christening
Last Sunday the infant son of Mr.
nd Mrs. Haskell Dial wns baptize
by the Rev E. C. Morgan at the resi
dence of the parents on I'ine street.
The name given the infant wns Her
man Ponsford Dial and the Dial heir,
although he wns unconscious of the
fact, enjoyed the distinction of wear
ing the baptismal robe of the Tons
fords, which has been hnnded down
from generation to generation. Aft
er the ceremony, at which Mr. nnd
Mrs. John C. Watson were the gna
parents, the heir of the Dials held nn
informal reception nt which he wns
the center of admiration. Resides
tti o-ajI niMnla nnA t It a ftnt fr T-.ru ti
Entirely aside from the question . pf ,j j t tw' n
f the enjoyment of home grounds, i M P M fUA t n.l U r
,! there is another and more practical xr iwnu, tr ,i r i r
lelegntion which will stnnd five to "'""nn .v nc nome grounds snoum Clemmons. and the Misses Mnv tice-
mm for the nomination of Theodore i I""""'" neaillirul shrubs and . M. j janBt n-,i1Ilma v- nn,i mons, Dr
Roosevelt for president, hut which , Im'"- ,D """"If n-v PfPrty, ! Mrs. Dial served very delightful nnd
wos not instructed wns chosen to," ' " ,ml ,' Vm If0: dainty refreshments which were d
long way toward closing a sale
i sn docs n shrub or a tree.
Just consider how much more in-
. . limit i. ',ur.7.-.. 1- untT in HIV
I house shaded by beautiful trees
invention. ScnnUr Fall and Sen
ator Catron hendaTho delegation, the
her members of which are Con
ressiunn B. C. TJjrnnndez of Rin Ar
rihn county, Yf J. M. Cunningham blended into its surroundings y the
f San Migueiyounty, hnfrneio Gnl-1 means or graceful shrubbery, as .OVer illnos. wiih which h -n.
logos of I'nioil county, nnd Ednnrdo : enmpnrcd with a house standing all (netted the latter part of Inst week.
t r . m a ill ... -i .. I .... . . . .1 .. j '
i. wicro oi Hfieneia county, t. nne. j nimir, uniriim-ieti tram ine sun man
. Spiess of Fls Vegas wns reelected presenting a hare, folorn and for
nntinnnl conLittecmnn without op- snken apcnrnnee. I know, for my
position,
of the assembly. Its cost is only
$2:50 if purchased before Tuesday
non. After that time the price will
he $:1. Season tickets for children
under fourteen arc $1.50. Tickets
may be had nt almost any bitsiaes-hon-e
in the city.
Those that guaranteed the chnu
tnmiuii nre: H. H. Kelly, F. L. Xord
hints, K. B. Qarcin, E. R. Vnllnndig.
ham, Clark Clothing Co., J. ('. ('Icin-
P. M. Steed. Wels.p,-,m:i
Realty Co., Dr. J. O. Mnir. W. K.
Foulkes, Deming National Bank, J.
pensed by the Misses Mny Reeger Ur. h. S. .Millopi, K. r .
and Janet Williams. Hamilton, Borderland Oarage, The
Toggery, linker Hotel, Clyde Earl
The large circle of friends of Mr.
L. 0. Tucker will be glad to konw
Demands in Submarine Controversy
Struggle for Possession of Verdun.
The whole of Ireland is under mar-
W. Ramsey, Clyde Enrl Ely, Missi tial law as a result of the attempted
Walter, Fritz Richter, Jack Tidmorc.i revolution in Dublin. The disnffec-
Hcnry Rnjlhel, Mrs. J. Hardy, the ' lion has spread to points in the west
Rev. Hugh T. Mitcholmore, the ftev. ' ana south of the islund, but here, as
Theodore Piatt, Miss Graco Qoebcl, in Dublin, (strong military activitie
W. V. Stewowrt, E. L. Foulkes, W. E. nre under way to put down tho
Foulkes, 0. W. MhCan, W. II. Mr- movement.
Crenry, Charles Sehneff, nnd E A. The submarine issue between the
Malcom. ' t'nited States and Germany is still
The campaign for the sale of th Is'ing considered bv the German gov
sensnn tickets began Thursday morn- eminent. James W. Gerard, the
ing nnd will continue until noon of Ann-rii-mi niulmssador to (li-rmny, in
the opening day, May 2. ' t" vi-it Emieror Wilhelm ut the armv
The adult season ticket is inter- hcndquiirters discuss the situ
chnngeahlo within the immediate """" with
family, and is good for every number Tl" sectors of Avocourt, Esncs and
Cuiniedes northwest of Verdun are
still under heavy bombardment that
has been in progress for several
days.
The Germans to the northeast of
Verdun to the front nfHaudremont
und the Thniumoiit farm, and be
tween Doiinumout and Vhiix, essayed
attacks, following violent bombard
ments, but the French curtain of fiw
held them to their trenches.
In artillery engagements along t Inline-
in Prance and Belgium, the al
lies have carried on bombarding nt
tneks against the Oerman position!
with vigor.
The German guns have been keep
that she is quit recovered from the
Elv. San V.'; '.'ns. Dr. O. H. Young. "l "eir heavy bombnrdroet of
Palncc Dvig Co., T. Seth Hull. Rich- tho """""n positions nt the Ikskull
t.-r Cnf -. City Dye Works. Dr. .Tnnet Further south the Teutons launched
Rcid. Mis- Kiltie Perkins, mid Miss '"' infantry attack near Rnrnnoviclui,
Grace Goehel.
Declaration that Ocrnny hn no
1 aggressive intentions toward the
Washington, D.C. A statement
defining the attitude nf the United
Charles F. Wilson of Denver visited
Deming last week on business.
Woman's Club
The Deming Woman's
self, I will select the home every , rnjtp(l RufM n no donht ,omptnin S toward armed merchantmen
1 1 " "u",of s disappointment to a few Berlin P",, mesoay oy me ti
1 ffMAnafW t a AfAsif that t(a 1 11 a it . i i .
but were repulsed. Still further
south the Russians have captured the
village of Clirmoiakoun.
In Aia Minor to the south nf Hit -lis
the Russians have dislodged tho
Turks for their iosition.
greenery to greet the eye. reetinn of the state department bv di
After this comparison just reflect! n-i-timi of President Wilson. It ori-
thnt the difference in the original cost rr..Kin,rt n r l l. . innllv wn-prepared ns a circular nolo
between these two homes is only ,., ,proprillti;nB wn i lber powers, but latter it was de-
n k -u ' f" l"1"" ynn(r shrubs and of Nd(ninif,trfttion. great pre- t-Mssn. . atatemwt.
Club will .trees. It takes only a week or two ; .j. . . . The statement holds that the right !
meet Tuesday at the city hall. to accomplish these results and th.-:h t .committees todnv in the!"' " mr-rehnnt ship to arm for pro-1
house. Thnrsdav the naval commit-! ' ,s ,n"
cost is not a factor.
'merchantmen" which have used
lhi-ir anuiincnts for offensive pnr
poc arc not entitled to the same
Washington, D. C The latest
British note in answer to the Ameri
can protest against allied interfer
ence with neutral trade, made pub
lic Tuesday niirht at the state de
partment, contends that the practt
ice complained nf are "Judicinllv
snuml nnd valid" nd that the relief
which neutrals seek is rather to he
obtained by the mitigation of neces
sary hardships than bv abrtit
Washington, D. C. It became ! A well-known banker in the city of r(y ,rill begin consideration of the
known today that Japan has made a 1 Los Angeles told me that abont four mnstrnctinn section,
virtunl threat of severance of dinlo-- years ago in his capacity of SB- Prumi
Wins High Honors mafic relations if her objections toiPrsiser ror one or the largest trus. . proposed flve-vsar building program '.r1' " . ' " P changes either in the theory of ap
Clavton Foulks. who will be gradu-. a certnin provision of the Burnet! ' ompanies of the city, the question will be approved, but that the first!""1" nnm,n ""ren""""'"- plication ..f a policy based on law
sted from the Deming High School ' immigration bill are not heeded. : of tree and shrubbery planting near- year's allotment of new ships will carefully adjusted to the altered con
this spring, has won first honors in) This evidence of the sentiment ofly every time made large differences he increased from two dreadnoughts ! Kamiqnipa, Mexico Two Ameri- ditbms of modern warfare.
her studies. .Carlton Clark was but: the Japanese nation, coming as it' "ppmiscu vaiues, necauss u and two battle cruisers to two dread-! cans were killed and three woundel
little behind her, however, and has does when the United Stntcs is in s reauiiy conceaea mai a property naughts and four battle cruisers,
been awarded second honors.
Wednesday Bridge Club
The Wednesday Bridge Club met
with Mrs. J. A. Mahoney, Mrs. J.
Harrington McLaughlin making the
highest score. Mrs. Mahoney'
guests war Mesdamea II. IT. Kelly
and II. O. Bash. The elab will not
meet next week owing Ut the Chau
tauqua aassmbly.
'diplomatic difficulties with Germany i correctly planted witn trees was
'and Mexico, is causing otncinl to "men easier io sen man one laczing
jvicw the situation with deep concern. ; respect.
Furthermore, it is said it accounts ; We all realiz
New York, The Oerman govern -
for the haste on the part of Presi
dent Wilson and Secretary Lans
ing and the administration leaders
in congress to make it known that
the provisions of the bill ta which
Japan has taken exception will be
eliminated.
in an engagement between cavalry-! Alnmogordo The jury in the case
men under Col. George A. Dodd and of the state against T. R. IL Smith,
2f0 Villistas at Temochic in the een- i n trial on a rharge of embezzlement,
ment was nremired tn nav 500.000 tcr of the Sierra Madres in western in connection with the failure of the
lize in Deming that the rnch for the destruction of nhins ! Chihuahua on April 22. according to Firt State Bank nf Las Crnces in
city could he made much more at
tractive by the greater improvement
of our yards, our alleys, and on.
streets. Ro, let's all pull together,
use a few minntes a day of onr time
in realizing our slogan "Deming, the
City Beautiful."
loaded with war supplies for the en
tente allies, Lient. Robt. Fay, nf the
German army, on trial in the United
States court for conspiracy, was
quoted today as having informed
Carl I Wittig, a witness for the
prosecution.
an official report reaching here to-, 1H, returned a verdict of not gnilty
day. Wednesday afternoon.
After the battle the American! !
found six Mexiean dead and nin-( It- B.Orton has moved from the
teen wounded, while a quantity ofi'Iondale district into Deming.
horses, arms and equipment was cap-
tared.
Almost every note we get from Ber
lin seems to be a promissory note,
