yggARAHTEE$ ITS ADVERTISjRSBETWEENJWELVE AND THIRTEEN HUNDRED CIRCULATION EACH AND EVERY WEEK OF THE YEAR M
prOTD BINDING llgM LEGAL BLANKS fl
...., ir m n lulling cnrd to n IK I I ? nSs 7LvC Ua .SK 4 W BI . l.aH
I ABSn"a1ua..toforkt IIV Jl1 I HI I L SBPS 4S& II 111 llffl The Bun carries In stock nil legal H
" tht wfaclory V"h0 fcCL-U' Ik II IlAy5?WiF2VC.l) II II I II litanlcii commonly In use. deed., mort- ),M
wedding good n'"1 tho llkp- N'xx-j. g' J ?-my S&'&' T trnets and the like Tito most com- tiH
B'fnumr' n'en tB W 13 rM itimii ,, ,... .. plrte to.k In Kitstcrn ftnh Order "sH
l&JVffi Kood. at right price.. POLITICALLY, REPUBL CAN. (HUM! mm inlle,l ll,c ,l rlv,d, jM
2?' il!tr printing l done Tho Hun lintered .t ,ImM, , , , . .. ' w u-i w-i.-w. j.et The Hun fill tour legal blank or- IH
S-ii Vni l?tr i v....... . 'lie I 191 nt tho Tostof e nl l'n e I tali t nder the A t of Mnnh 3 1S7 .Icrn. Win n Uttir printing nnd Mnd- VM
glL NOIMhJjniltEHis EVERY HUD Y AIMMI. 28. 1910 '.,,, Th, Ha, i.i d , M
pUS HELD '
1 81 REPUBLICANS
,,. (,TIH HIM' M
TlllMflH Mi:i7IIM..
Halt (lio-rn I" fount) Cornell
IMitllilth Meet III Trice 'linuor
r Cmliinlnj) Uleriioon . .1.
I4T Milt' tin Teriiiiiiieut Clinlniimi '
j ml H Miihumii Mfrelni).
d nr ( g n ' the Trie republi-
i m th I ' wuipHlgn wn find
I Jn i tuning nt Clt Hull .
rfn purc mt t the mil f TrcUntt
itmn J !-' nltoiit sevciit)
!ntn! I th. prlmnr) culled fir
, Pufi" ' th -ling eleven dele-
i.i i Ih. r iml.lli mi count) nut
utton to "e lietil In thin ill) tumor
w ifUlurdnv l afternoon Ait tin
fWl ml! states, thU convention It
tkl elghbtii delegate to intend
rrpuMl .in Mate convention which
i meet nt Imvo on Mn' I niul It
tli tlr t nltie delegate to iitlrliil
retail II an Judicial coiivenlloii
, h meets nt I'ri'f on Mny 27lh
-Jure a Kol nttfinliiiu of thi
i Him Wttlnisdo) evening' meet
ml ii in -I i ni oiimglng feature
. Ihsl n n iiiiIm r of people wen
re ho In III' punt few iw had
iil fr m tin old purt). Their
fhir ill WnlnemlH) 1MIK 11 luiwt
vine MKlit niul It Indlnitfii Unit
,jbUi an -m in CnrlNin itiunt In
mint ml oimi iikhIii nnd Unit
'n Ihr i'i of nil dnit eleclliill
i .m Hi pwrl Mill prevent
h i ul if lit Unit It 111 fiitlnl
m i.n l il m iralixt' Ihr eneni)
hf jifitu it Wiih iiiIIimI to ordrr
i tunriii ' Iai Mho wuh then
mm it ' it ImI pvriinilient t'luilr-
ii ar 1 r Ii., M'lf '!" II. PeriilHlltllt
rtur J'ft n-'ll'Hiii '" pernmii-
halrn ' hip Jinlgc !tf thmiked
l-rmiir ' r the honor conferred
n him jt I in it ery few nppro-
jIp i i Hi : it wlilih be t'XprtHWOd
'Ml" t I It lllg HI IIIHIIl Hf
- m t'.i' itimir itud exti'iideil it
"vmr I) nU progrpiiHltii to ihjiiii-
k inii tin repuiillutii xirl niul
Kt Ihrlr Inn in with the rent. Me
tarnl Hut tin party wim big
uih t It 'l tin in nil, but lit mid.
if a iiu to it ipitHilloii of pur-
uinr l'n- rilurii of tlu iirogrvimltpH
lirumiM- f noinlimtlim to office
U hr f r i 'in mm not In foxiir of
) tuili r.iui'illiig TIh-hii people
4 lft ihf rrpuhllriiti party of their
n' ?nl niul he bvllevt-d Ibut the)
ulj rriuru lu tin' Kiiiiie milliner
1 (unlit rinnri' Unit, when tbuy did
turn, tliuuld m treated with nil due
pKt and tlm Kind hniul of wtditillie
uniM to Hit in
Wbtn the npplntiNii brought forth
lh tlmlriiuin'ii reiiiiirkit bnd iil
ld, ihr prlninr), In the imuul html
like iiuiiikt which cburnclrrUcH
i rriml i ;m gntherlng, got down
liuilnon, it wiim moved, ncconded
'! oriiril iimi after tlm nonilim
M fir ihleioili!, were vlimed it Mile
uM be takin and tho rluxen t'ltii
JIm ri rltlng the hlgheiit number
Tulo tlimild be I'lumeii ait deb;guteN
f the I'urpimv itlready Minted. Thlr
nnim, nrri, ,n)r, in nuniliuilloii
' In nil in ent)-one luillnln with
l Thi lillirn, t), T llroukM nnd
nil Tnllir uhi'ii they flnlnlieil their
'r fi.iimi i to ,v. MiOt-e. Curl
nUirsi i f It Murt'iiHeii, A. J. Uc.
"fxMilir A W lloriile). tleorge
Jnan j .m( )t j. Turner,
I! MM Ulan nnd l o. Hllviimil were
" men i lumen to look itfltT the In
rl tf Price pretlnct In the coin-
i '. union Allernnteit ulionen
" r U A Lnulnr. I". K. WoodH.
" II rsiij t h, I'rbe mid 8lllmi
v
vmwxm
'l'n-. Mini Hmvil t'mlcr lbiml Cor
lltiilliiu llli Wife,
' 1 of Imtteo. Htto I'rUluxh
' ' i wii pluieii in ihirmue Mlo
" "' Inning been brought from
" ' ,',' ' -""I' ' eput Hhcrtf f A.
'' rrom tthut nmi Iki learned
,n "I MierlffH of flu. u H.'i'iim that
'"", '""l Hunilny went duuu to
"WarihiHe mid betmiui Intoxliuted
; " m return proceeded to belu
"H biUtrlialf. who U nuld o be
' 'lingli mnuii in Ninture. It U
' " Kcil that he threittfeiied to
'ri u Imin linif,, ti, ti,0 ujy ami
fill) pnsunted from no doing b)
ir irr wn" tttUBit ll rm In
lliti lounty attorne) anil n
'"' "Hrlff went to ltulnvN Mon
: 'Ju,ellKile With the remill that
of bHtti ry ban been filed ngalnut
i Wih n Judne A. J Ie'n court.
n-,', 5 ' V,au brought before hl
r Tiugiiay morning und the bond
mi appearuiico wuh fixed at four
dim Uollur"- A 'eae. de
'uatita couiuel. nnd the county at-
Iiiinc nrrnnged to meet toJ)
agree upon u time for the bear
i ' i llu rune,
iiM.ru t oatcii voit ni:ir..
?.i M".ler' f'iner backntop of the
SSlM" '"" nnd lant )ear will.
II ene, ?'" lenKUB Tfgntlon. llON
U, ?tU n -her for tho Del
j ". '". nd leaver IVUe tonight
I ' " ' r
SPRIKG FASHIOUS.
Proclamation
Prldtt) Mm) J. I1H. U herel.) de
Ignnted hn (IihhI Itiwit" ln) III nil Die
title, Iowiin mid iirrtlni'lN In CnrUin
t omit), flail Ker) male fltUell
nblii to line ii pick, nhovcl, ii xi' or older
nud building tool In hereby renuenlw!
tu donate lilt rrlct ttuil lu iihiii
the iilnte und county rouiU liHtillng to
and from wild town, und II l hereb)
further reiiileetwl that the clllteilN of
I'rlee, Helper and Cutle flate diiintte
Ibelr NenlceN upon that portion of
the Mute highway known no Hie Mid
land trail, between Cairtle Hale mid
the I'lah count) line, or neur Ihe
bind of norm Crick fan) on
An) iihlfhodlrd man who through
iiiuMilduble ilri'uniilHiuiii inniuil !
prewtit In do lilx iIii)'n work In re-
llleeleil to a) In till lilH)or of III re
mietlle ill) or town the mini of three
dollar. In lieu theretif Where not
liiiiirM.rtted the Nild three dullarN
nut) be altl to the periHiii having
ihaige of the work.
I'rbla) inoriilng. Mu tlh. it opetlul
tnilu will letne I'rlee, cone)liig men
fioin I'rbe, Helper and CnMle (lute
to the evene of nttloii It U hereb)
Miggivtitl that the offleluU and offl
cvrN of giMid rimtlH orgunlMllonii "f
ieh tit) niul town itrronge for the
tmrrlng Into effect of thin proclHinii
lion. Ilenpeelfull),
J. It. HIIAItl'.
VM. T HAMILTON.
AI.IIKItT llltYNKII,
CarlHin County Ciiinnillunerii
UTAH POWER AND LIGHT COMPANY
OUTLINES PDLIGY ON PRICE PLANT
That no meter iIhihmIIn ""I1"'
Uiilrtd b Ihe I'lah Tower and Light
rninpaii) from urN of eUtirlc r
ie who own popert) In Ihe Inler
entllig new tolivWd lo " l"l;',,.,l'J
thU nation l l" of fit tab. of lli
isimiiuny In reuiie to a renuetji
from The Kiin.tlmt H'e tmiin) out
line what It propoea to tl.i mIV,'.T;
linen mid In the mutter of ntlen In Ihe
local Nltuutlou. pniNlded the ""
of I'rlee aiithorlie the wle of the tit)
lighting N)nti'in . .
The offleluU of the eonipttn) !
that In addition to demanding no tie
poiltN from utrN of eleelrlc erUie
who own propyrty. only ; on''
Inul meter depon t of S 60 will lie
aikld from . re.ldA.ce ;lom.w win.
do not own'proert), and on 11 !
poult of 8tU.e eomiuli) IM I l
nterent. In the matter of rolen the
tut, I'owir and Light , ! It JjlH
furn tali electric erlce for rwldeme
on ,, NHdVng Ncn.e .tartlng at ten centN
..r kllowat hour, with 10 Pr 'n
! .count A NaMn'g ...
umiumrn I the compan .'"
cooking rate of three "' J'"k" I
wat hour, with 10 per cent off f r
cm.li. Klcclr." range., coffee per o
latum electric Iron, elmtrb netting
ma .tine nolior. und pr.utlcuU) rry
other lectrlu nppllanre of the hoiw
except b-cb-h, llrhlf
on thl exth-inely low rale of three
tent per kllownt hour
nlcc for tlectrlc ,." purpow.
will be fiirnlnhed on the eonimii'H
.tundHrd iwale of rati, running front
,x tenl to ihnti tuarter of tent
per kllowut hour.
Hireet lighting will be furnlnhed at
the regular rote for ntreet lighting In
effett In other town throughout the
tumMiit lerrlb.r). Thl. amount
to tl per tamp per month for all
night nervlce. The tami are u hun
dred mndle power I'or lamp of
larger l lower price per candle
.x.wer will If a.ked The rate that
will nppl to the ill)1 pumping oper
ation aro $1.60 per homepowtr per
month plu the following rllJIng oule
of rutwi rirt thousand kllowat
hour, two nnd one-half cent, next
two thousand kllowat hour, one mid
three-Quarter cent! next lx thou
and kllowat hour, one nnd one-quar-ter
tent, and ull In exten of nine
thounand kllowat hour will be charg
ed for nt the rate of one und one
eighth cent. I'le per tent dUeount
from theti rule will be allowed for
cash
The Utah 1'ower and Light com
pany will bo able to handle demand
for any amount of electrlo wnlte and
If they purchase the local plant will
make Trite an Important cunter for
handling their bu.lnes.
Heed for a hundred acre of beet
ha jut tten reached In, Trite and It
wo, with maolilner) ileeewmr) for
Oie planting, bullied outlo the Austin
biothtr' fnrm south f here ThU
seed wn Importtd dlrctl) from tier
man) A large force: n emplued on
the Austin farm nt the irient time
t
I" KUIMBJIUnUIE
sl.crlllV orrbv (nl 1 1 1. it) t'p Cull
to Sato) Hotel.
Uist Hundity morning it burr) up
cull to the sheriff off be sent Deputy
Hherlff Itleh pout haste to the office
of the 8ao) JtoteU The cull for
lulp bad hecnfenl In V) Adolph I It'll
man, the miuugrr, (ml It uppear
from Informal Ion fiitilshed The Hun
b) the shtrlfCttiOlco that (leorgo
Hheuker had ritlned u ruction which
the manager mid proprlt tor of the
hotel, l-uuln Uiwensteln, wen iiiiuble
to queVO All the trouble heem to
hutiioTmirred over the mime) or Ihu
itbsencu of money In the iah register.
Hhenker. the night cli rk, bud deposit
tit hi I O I' In Jleu of 1 20.V0 mid
when the manager usked him to uc
tount for It. knowing that Hhenker
had nnl) about sixteen or elghtteu
dollur due for wage, Hhenker' ub
sequent behavior was mi) thing but
lad) like The fuit of the inuttir I
that he became abusive und used
langliuge tllitt the postal law of these
I nlted Htute positive!) prohibit be
ing printed und made threat that
were not conducive to the inmiuger'N
ptacc of mind. A pnutlcul demon
stration of what these threat were
uiin hImiiiI tu he made, when the l.ro-
prletor of the hostelry came up gal
lantly to the recuw or hi faithful
hinvhmnii. He beat it hasty retreat,
however, when Hhenker grubbul him
b) bl retently fmitured arm mid
gave It it severe twist. Thl little in
vention gave the nstiile maiiugr time
to use Ihe telephone Dvpul) llltli
arrived onl) to find the desperuibi
flown and the exevullvv Inmaten of
the hotel In u stute of excitement bor
dering on nervous prostration. The
deput) Immediate)) started lu pur
suit of the fugitive, who wu beuded
i tovvurtl Helper.
Ho vvaa ordered to stop b) HUh und
.when he wu sufel) In the bitnd t.f
I the officer the liiunuger felt wife lu
giving him it piece of hi mind Hhen
ker then reminded the mummer that
j It wai only the presence of the of ti
ter that made him bold enough to so
do mid made u movement a If he
were about to demolish Hellmuii.
Itlvh, however, prevented further vio
lence und Hhenker wa marched off
to Jail. It wa tho Intention or the
management of the hotel to lodge a
complaint charging Hhonker with
grand tureen), but cooler Judgment
prevailed and n churgu of assault and
battery was pluced In Judge A. J
1-e'M court. That dlgnltury uesed
him tvvent) dollar, which wa paid.
Dr. N. C Hpuldlng, veterinarian for
Utah I'uel and United Htate I'uel
immi'unles, wa In Winter Quarter
Clear Creek und Hcofleld lust Thur
da), Triday und Saturday looking af
ter the tompan)' live stock. There
are tblrt)-one head of horse ut Win
ter Quarter nnd thirty-four bend ut
Clear Creek
WELKARE CLUB FORMS , I
AT WINTER QUARTERS 1
Uncertainty of Work at Upper Camp Curtails 'H
Social AffairsEvery Nationality to H
Have Representative In Club. -
i H
Tin Hun Hpetlitl Hervln
WLNTKIt IICAIITHUH April tt
t nforliimitel). work lm heen ver
t.lliertillll r it Ibe iHtnt two mouth In
Winter Quurlem and n it reult social
nnd other iiillclllen are rttrhtltcd to
Rio h it dlgree Hint a far n biiiiim
llielltN lire ciMieerned the titlil lin
not bifii "I'll! to brunch out lu it man
ner thai thorn, who take charge of
nil. h affair could desire Yet the)
lire going abend mid doing the ver)
bent w lib Ii I extremely good the)
tan In nliout it week's lime there
will be n mas Hireling when it wel
fan nnmitlBtloll will be formed. The
Intuition I to orgitnliti' on the line
of the ('antic (lute orguttlxiitltni und
tin ti.uiliictlng of the varlou amuse
inentn both noclnl and iilhlrtlc. will
be placed In the timid of callable
loiiimlttri- Krr natloiiallt) In the
tump Will have H represeiibttlve III till
K.illlillri of Ihe mmh billon
It I to be depliirtMl that there I no
iHtseliiill organisation lu the tump for
no other gHlile eerve to aniline Mild
brlghleii up mi) coinmiiiill) thmi dot
bunt ball There lite, however. It mint
her or good iiwmm Intliin footballum lu
Ihe mini' mid the) hope to arrange
for Mime gitme this muling season
with Home of the "soever" team of
Kureku or Soil ltke Clt In fact It
wa NliggcMed to The Hon rcproneiilrt
tlvi Unit It would Ih h kimmI thing If
itrrHiigeineiil eolild be made Willi
eltlur Ihe Kureka or Halt Irftke I'll)
foott.it er Unit it iiiutih game might
lie arranged to Ih- ibt)ed at the next
t'.iriion-limer) fair at I'rbe Wilder
Quartern Im.)m tblijk It would form nil
itttruitlon that vetmld tlrnw niimber
of the Kiigllahiueii und the bid Unit
hull from the ''bind o' tiikisi" to the
fair Unit otherwise would la) iiwu)
Winter Quartem ha u splendid
amusement hull with it willing eapu-
ill) of about four hundred, so that
there I nothing to be desired In the
mailer or having suitable quarters
for holding meeting. It has been
Htitiotiiieed III the lolumii nf The Hllll
thai ii vaudeville perforiuaiue under
the uunpbe of the Winter Quarter
Dramatic tltlb will be on the hoard
on April :5lh. Till ha been post
poned to May 1st The club I prae
tlelug assiduously mid the affair
promise tu be n huge suece. The
fait or the mailer I. when snob men
a T. C. Harvey. Ir. C K. McDermld
and (1. 1'. Dorgan tuko hold of mi en
tertainment It I bound to be u mie
cen. The two lust named men are
noted lu Winter Quarter u comedi
an par excellence.
The club lit going to some expense
fur the eiilrrluliiuienl mid new scen
ery bus been ordered from the limine
studio ut 1 1U kv llle. ()., Including
thrin full set und u stmt scene A
new asbestos curtain has also been
ordered. The affair ha In en billed
throughout Clcur Creek and Hcofleld
as well u here a "The (Ireutesl Ag
gregation III the History of the Hinge"
and a u iheirup medium mid n
meuii whtreby those who suffer rrom
grout h can idmke themselves and lose
said grouch T C Harve) I tho
biislues manager mid rrom hint
dropied here nnd there It I apparent
the to', lug performance I going to
be it riot or run A good gun club I
to be formed In the camp und von
.Iderubln work I being done lu thin
line of sport milling Individual. When
the i lull l organised (1 I" Oiirgan ' H
bun promised In semi full reHirl )f '
the score to The Hllll H
The welfare iismh latbui I hum Ink- H
lug up the matter of forming n vhnr- H
II) irgmiltalloii It I slncerel) Imped ,H
that there will be but the NfllHtlest 'H
field for in lit It) lu Ibln dlrettbili, ret M
It show Unit the heart or those whe) H
have stead) i'tiiplo)meiit are n big iJ
a Hit moiiiiliiliin Unit surround thetn. H
A good basketball team I another 'H
feiitun III the elilerlalliment sebumo '.'iH
of llle welfare itssoilatloii and several jH
Rood gintum IlitVe lilread) been pin) ltd il
with Ihe two sister town of Keoflebt i H
and Clcni- Creek. "uH
Atllve work wilt soon begin wllti Ol
the first aid und rest lie team. John H
Dm kworth Is president or thl organ- 'IH
iMilb.ii mid the work I under the SH
supervision or Thomas C llarvn)' IH
who at one lime had charge of it gov jl
eminent car III l'citnsliuiiht I Mir wH
lug Hit ihisI winter meeting were
llalil MITI I'll. till I'Vl'llllllf III tll hllll IIH
mid liM'tnre were given nnd Intern!- IjH
lug dlneiissbin held along thki(lliie or H
work. Dr. .McDer.nld I also mi nt- .1
live spirit In the work. A yttt the tH
teHehlng or first aid work ban not iH
been taken up In the school, hut this f -Ll
may haiqieii talir Winter Quartern lH
boast h flue tadlen' first ittd tram f M
mid lu July. IUM. they were til will 'H
ner of a silver I'lip In the rtimiwll- H
Hon. H
list Krlda) mi Kxhlbllloii or the , M
school work for the post yistr wit ( M
given at the puldle wIiihiI hi, the oe- 'IJI
easloii of imreiiU' Milling day. The ' t H
miitbers and rmhem or the young- I'JI
stern vw the regular e as work In . IJH
the forenoon nnd lu the iirternoon TH
the) Inspected the Various exhibit. Sl
I'roni the qiiulll) i.r the work shown. XH
the leacbi ra should bo well satisfied H
with their effort nud the parents n. 'H
mi nllillllil Ih. Uell IHMOrcd that the IIIH
lime tin not been w asled. Notable ' H
features of th exhibit were the wood v. flH
carving done by the bos nnd the art - H
iieidlevvoik nnd iroi beting I.) the , H
girl. Thl I it new feature lu the H
seliiiol work, the wood curving .being . I JH
under the siipirvlsb.n of Trlneltl !. ' 'H
Carlos Woodward nnd the girls' nrt fH
work Is taught b Mis llonllii. VI- fliH
Horn lo the exhibit were treated to . H
Ice t ream nnd enko. the oxpenno of h H
which wn lH.rn by the teacher und ifi'H
the nerving wa done by the eighth i IH
grade girl. C'lLH
Kver) Crldu) Ihe Tnrenln' nnd LI
Teacher' iinnoi'lallon meet nnd the 0 Jl
meeting nre enJo)ed by nil. Hubjret ,foH
bearing on iDglene. henllli mid had- ffH
II aro discussed and the pupil' vot.i- 9 H
tlon nud giibliince nre made u speelnl h M
study. Trom lime to time Interesting iiH
,.fin..rM ne. p..ml mill irf.ui.mlll' llle us- it S.1
sodatlon enjo) u nice lulu lieon. IwliiH
The relief society or the Iitler-dit)' SEilllllllH
Hulnl church retently gavo a vrry NV,H
successful bnutiir nt Winter Quarter, tiH
It wu ii splendid siicces. quite a tidy iJtaH
sum being real lied for the soelet)'',, . uliil
ihurlluble work it. IfleiiH
About two hundred nnd fifty bo Fl
mid clrl of Ihe fifth, sixth, seventh IHIH
mid eighth grade of the Carbon coun- I IH
ly school arrived In Trice Jenterdu)'. MH
It wu vvhat I tailed a demonslrnlli.il . vH
day nt the high school und the visit- If ,H
Ing scholar were given n demoiitlra- frlH
tlon i.r tho various department at rNlH
work Todu) will be devoted to a blH
traik mid field ItlH
JUDGE CHDISTENSON DOLDS SPECIAL
SESSION TO REAR COAL LAND CASE
The Heventli Judblal Dlstrbt tourt
wu udjoiirned until Jum 47th, but
thl order wa set aside und Judge A '
II ChrisleiiNon held It special session
on Tuesila) On April 10th Judge
ChrlBtenoii signed an order for the
defendant In the 1. A. Ketchum Coal
company v. Tleusant Vulloy Coul
uompun) ami other cuso to show
causa wli) the defendant should nut
lie punched for contempt for dUobe)-l
Ing the commands nf a Judgment mid
order uocompun)lng bnd un Injunc-,
tlon rendered In court on July 2.
1913. In thl order the Ketchum
Coul company wn given permission
to occupy premise sought lo be con
demned a right of wa) for tunneling
nnd ihe- construction of a tramwa)
und also the right to construct a
tramway beneath the Willow Creek
tramway nt Custle (late.
On April 3Sth Ihe Ketchum people
filed mi ufflduvlt netting out that the
wdrk of moving lumber had been
forcibly Interfered with by the de
fendant' agent and that the string
ing of electrlo wire ucrue plaintiff
proper!) hud Interfered with further
work und tonstriii lion on the Keith- BH
ii m proper!) The hearing on Ihl j H
order wu set for Tuesdu). April 2Mb, i WM
nt w hbb tlmn the defenduiit demur- ( Hl
red to the affidavit and uppllcutlon I BEI
filed b) the Kelt hum people. The j HUH
Ketihuiii Coal compuny wu repro- y
senled b) Walton 6. Walton of Halt H9
Uike Clt) while Altorne) M. T. Ilraf- faM
fit. A. C Kill mid W. D. lllter u- 5 flfliH
peared for the ilervndant. Attorney itiHBsLl
Kill urgiied on the demurrer and laililuH
Walton replied. The tuurt sustained IHilH
the defendant mid gave plaintiff per- H
mission to file it supplemental uffl- i JH
davit, but tt.e court sustained an oral BH
demurrer to that one Plaintiff BH
counsel stated that they desired to lftiH
stand on the affidavits und did not siflflHiH
cure to amend further Hold partli Jfl
lu the action consenting, the plaintiff iflsH
wax granted thirl) da) additional ifliillH
limn lu which to prepare nnd serve IJiH
n bill of exception. IsMH
In the case or Albert Dlmmlok v SiH
the Utuh 1'uul company mid Edward HLlLiH
Kdwnrd the court ordered that the BiiiiH
defendunt may have until June tlh Hl
In which to prepare und file a bill of Bll
