The EcKo K»» a
reading circulation
of over 4.000 per
ioni who trade in
Leavenworth. Ad-
Tertise ana increase
your business.
Vol. 13. No. 17
TUESDAY, MAY 16TN,
IS GOOD ROADS DAY
County Commissioners Will Visit Every
Road District During First
Week in May
By proclamation Governor Lister has
set aside May 16th as a day to be ob
served in promoting the good roads
movement. It is not expected that the
day will be observed in working the
roads, but rather that people will meet
together and *alk over road matters and
mutually pledge themselves to do all in
their power to the end that road appro
priations will be honestly spent, and
that roads will be improved where they
will benefit the greatest number. It is
expected oi course that the automobile
Associations will observe the day, be
cause the auto owner more than any
one else is interested in good roads.
From Commissioner Gillette, who
Tas in this office Monday, it was
learned that the county commissioners
plan to visit every road district in the
county the first week in May and will
endeavor to so distribute the available
road funds that the best results may be
had. They hope to have the help and
co-operation of the automobile organi
zations in improving the main high
ways, as it is understood that automo
bile owners will contribute to the up
keep of these roads.
Easter Monday Ball
The ladies of the G. I. A. tendered
a ball to their husbands last Monday
evening, and thereby hangs a tale.
That the reader may the better under
stand the situation we might say that
the G. I. A. is an organization com
posed of the wives of the engineers,
who belong to the Brotherhood of Lo
comotive Engineers. The member
ship of the G. I. A. numbers some
thirty or forty women. The ball came
oS in the firemen's hall last Monday
evening, on schedule time. That is,
it came off so far as the women were
concerned, but the engineers were
non est combatabus et swampo.
Which translated means that they
were not there in their proper
persons. They had been called
and had to go elsewhere to fill
an engagement with the Great North
ern railroad. This fact developed just
about the time the festivities were
scheduled to begin. It also developed
that there was one lone engineer in
Leavenworth. He did not belong
here, was an interloper, so to speak,
without the right to the track, but he
was a locomotive engineer and he was
rounded up and brought to the ball to
save the day. It devolved on Harry
Geerds to do the handsome for thirty
or forty women who wanted to dance.
It was "our men are out of town and
you are the only engineer in Leaven
worth." Oh, if you dont think he was
in demand you have another think
corning. But he did his best. That's
all a Johnny Bull could do. When the
ball was over they carried Harry home
on a shutter and the next morning he
took the first train to Everett.
Back from the European War
Major Percy Wells of Cashmere, sent
word that he would return from England
in a short time. He left the valley a
year ago to join his regiment in which
he had served half a century. On ac
count of his age it is presumed that he
was relieved of further duty. He got
married while there and will bring his
wife and settle on the Seal & Coburn
ranch in Blender canyon.
President Ripley of the Santa Fe rail
way in a communication to employes
of the road, commenting on thederaand
for increased pay, said: "All may
by their efforts contribute to the amount
to be divided, but no amount of quar
reling as to the terms of the division
will make that amount larger. If every
body will work for greater earnings he
may be sure he will get his share. But
he cannot increase that share by grab
bing for it."
Uhc Xeavenwortb iScbo
Wenatchee Couple Married 61 Years
Mr. and Mrs. Reuben Brown, resid
ing at Wenatchee, with their sons,
Noah and Geo. Brown and Mr. and
Mrs. Wm. Robertson, celebrated the
85th birthday of Mrs. Brown last Tues
day. Mrs. Brown is strong and supple
for a woman of her age. She neither
wears glasses nor walks with a cane,
and with the exception of a small
growth on her face that has been there
for forty-two years, is in excellent
health. She is five months and five
days older than her husband. They
have been married 61 years. They
were born at New Albany, Indiana,
and lived there until 1878, when they
came to Vancouver, Wash., living
there until they moved to Wenatchee
in 1901.
Dude Brown, of Leavenworth, is a
grandson of the aged couple.
TOURIST TRADE AND TRAVEL
CAN BE MADE PROfITABLE
Northwest Has Valuable Asset in This
Line While War Lasts—What Are
We Doing to Get Our Share
The globe-trotting army will soon be
on the move. The great war has
diverted the stream that flows across
the Atlantic every year, leaving a half
billion dollars with the thrifty denizens
of that effete land. As the weather
gets warmer and the days longer the
globe-trotter gets ready for a trip some
where. If he cannot go to Europe he
does the next best thing —consults a
tourist guide for some place on the
North American continent that he has
not seen that seems to offer induce
ment and attraction for his fagged
spirit. While the attractions that the
northwest has to offer are different in
that they are the works of nature, while
the wonders of Europe are largely the
works of man, they should not be one
whit less interesting.
Right here it is pertinent to inquire,
what are we doing to catch the eye and
enlist the interest of this large class of
pleasure-seekers? Right here in Wash
ington we have lakes that equal, if
they do not surpass, any of the Euro
pean lakes. We have glaciers beside
which the Alpine ice beds are small
affairs. We have mineral springs whose
curative waters equal anything Austria
can offer the run-down man from the
city. We can beat Europe on natural
wonders hands down. They have noth
ing to equal the wonders of the Yellow
stone. For the temples and monu
ments of Egypt we have to offer the
wonderful cave dwellings of Arizona
and New Mexico, the ruins of Aztecs,
Toltecs, and the still more ancient
ruins of the Maya race. But what we
are more particularly interested in is
the attractions of Washington for the
man who wants diversion. Chelan
county itself is no slouch when it
comes to scenery, fishing, hunting and
mountain climbing.
What are we doing to arrest the at
tention and get the money of the pleas
ure seeker? Nothing. And why?
Simply because no one has taken up
the question. Here is a golden oppor
tunity for the Wenatchee commercial
club.
170 Boxes of Apples Shipt to Everett
F. A. Blacker, owner of an apple
orchard two miles east of the town,
loaded the last of his 1400 box crop of
apples on the cars and sent them to
Everett. He has a large retail grocery
store and expects to dispose of most ol
them to his own trade and sell the bal
ance to other retailers. His apples
had gone thru the winter in first class
condition and were as sound when he
loaded them yesterday as when he put
them in winter storage last November.
The Pacific Northwest contains prac
tically half of all the standing timber in
the country, but furnishes only one
sixth of the annual cut. The Southern
pine region is the present center of the
lumber industry, furnishing about 45%
of the annual production.
Baseball goods at Wheeler's drug
store. 17*
The Higher Up the Valley You Go the Bigger and Better the Apples Grow
Leavenworth, Wash., Friday, April 28, 1916
LEAVENWORTH TO HAVE
GOOD BASEBALL TEAM
A Left-Handed Pitcher from Knoxville,
Term., looks Like a Winner—
Sam Daly, Captain
Almost but not quite was Leaven
worth to be without a ball team this
summer. Sam Daly savtd the day.
With Bill Wunder to start with as a
leftover from last year fie was so fortun
ate as to pick up a leflpaw from the
south who m iy develop into a veritable
Ty Cobb. Who knows. You never
can tell until you try. and Sam says
his Byrd promises tc turn into a peach.
At least that is the way it looked in the
first game played l.i^t Sunday with the
Cashmere team on thj Leavenworth
grounds. Cashmere always did have a
good team and always put up a good
game in the years gone by, and yet
Byrd and Wunder kept the bacon at
home. Or, what amounts to the same
thing, they won by 3 to 1.
The following report of the game is
furnished by Luke, who promises to
give us a report of every game during
the season:
Byrd, the sensational southpaw from
Tennessee, sent Cashmere and Ames
home wondering how it happened. A
few —you notice, I said few —of the
fans turned out to the opening game at
the ball park Sunday and enjoyed a
game that was good to watch. Byrd
took care of Cashmere in their half, re
tiring the side in order. Daly was first
up for the home club and made things
look rosy by getting a hit, then got
stuck in the mud at first and was thrown
out by Nelson. Mahoney, next up,
reached first safely —then the mud.
Vedovell got him by a nice throw to
first. After this the mud dried up and
the boys played a close game until
George loct a high one from Wuuder's
bat, and we scored two. Smith next
poled one midway between center and
right and Mahoney scored our last run.
Byrd hogged the whole show until the
last, when Cashmere hit safe twice and
Wunder butted into the limelight by
dropping a third strike, then went to
sleep while Cashmere scored their lone
run. The Leavenworth boys will jour
ney to Waterville Sunday and will try
out several new men.
Prohibition in Yakima
During the first three months of
1915 there were registered in the
county jail in Yakima 133 prisoners.
During the first three months of this
year 19 were registered, and on the
first day of April the county jail did
not contain one single prisoner for the
first time since the county was organ
ized. Prohibition is credited with the
change in conditions.
Will Open Dressmaking Parlor
Mrs. D. C. Town will open a dress
making parlor on Front street, directly
opposite the viaduct. A fact which
will no doubt be pleasing news to her
many friends in Leavenworth. Mrs.
Town followod this occupation here
and was the leading dressmaker for a
number of years. She will be asso
ciated with Mrs. Mehlhorn, who has
had years of experience in this line.
17*
Advertised Letters
Frank E. Krutz, Beulah Abbott,
Mary Lewis Simpson, Agnes Ward,
Harry Jones, J. E. Gule, Olof Lund,
John Sussex, James Shuber, L. L. Ter
perning, C. M. Statley, Angelo Salvo,
F. Nelson, Chas. Bruger, R; H. Doe,
Mrs. E. L. Miller 3.
When calling for the above please
say "advertised."
G. A. Hamilton, Postmaster.
Some white ash from Tennessee, re
cently tested at the Madison, Wis.,
Forest Products Laboratory, was sold by
the lumber company producing it to
an aeroplane company for $300 per
thousand feet. This is said to be the
highest price to which ash has as yet
soared.
Activity at the Thomas-Culross Mine
An article in the April number of
the Northwest Mining Journal, Seattle,
contains an interesting article on the
Alaska project being promoted by G.
M. Thomas and his son Don, resi
dents of Leavenworth. According to
the statement made in the Journal a
government agent has inspected the
property and pronounced the ore body
as indicating great depth. The erec
tion of what is known as a Lane mill
is now under way by an experienced
mining mill man by the name of Em
erson, who has previously erected sev
eral mills in Alaska.
CAPITAL BUILDING BONDS
HELD UNCONSTITUTIONAL
l Man County Marble would Have Been
Used in the Buildings Had Their
Sale Not Been Prohibited
The 1915 legislature provided for
the sale of 81,500,000 worth of bonds,
as the first part of a four million dollar
issue intended to be used in erecting
needed capital buildings. The su
preme court, sitting en bane, three
judges dissenting, held the law author
izing their sale unconstitutional, on the
ground that the public debt could not
exceed the $400,000 limit without
submitting the matter to a vote of the
people. A syndicate of Washington
bankers had already agreed to take the
bonds provided the supreme court de
cided the law authorizing their issue
was constitutional. The interest was
to be 4'A per cent. The matter will
again come before the state legislature
in January next. The law authorizing
the buildings and the provision stating
they shall be constructed of Washing
ton material is not affected by the de
cision. The matter is now held up
until the bond issue is voted on by the
people. That Chelan county marble
will be used in the construction of the
capitol buildings is beyond question.
G. N. Settles With Victims of
Corea Slide
It will be recalled that Ed Batter
man, wife and three children were on
the ill-fated train that was hit by a
slide near Corea, January 22, in which
eight persons lost their lives. A settle
ment was reached with the heirs this
week by which suit will be avoided.
The amount is not stated, but is be
lieved to be well above $5000. Mr.
Batterman aud two children were in
stantly killed and Mrs. Batterman was
slightly injured. One surviving child
of the family escaped unhurt. Batter
man was a fruit grower of East We
natchee.
Local Fruit Growers Meet
The Leavenworth unit of the Wenat
chee North Central Washington Grow
ers League held their annual election
in the city hall last Saturday. Nearly
all the members were present. The
following were elected as trustees for
the coming year, J. B. Adams, John
Emig, H. S. McNett, Jno. Schneider
and John Byron.
The meeting was absolutely harmon
ious and the members decided by
unanimous vote to ship their fruit to
gether this fall. A meeting of the
newly elected trustees was called for
Saturday afternoon at Mr. Adams' of
fice but on account of Mr. Adams be
ing a delegate to the republican county
convention at Wenatchee, which is on
Saturday, he is asking the board to
meet Monday afternoon instead.
Rutherford Mercantile Co. Moves May 1
The Rutherford Mercantile Co. will
move about May first to a location on
Front street adjoining the Leavenworth
State Bank, known as the Roach build
ing.
Violette Wins in Superior Court
In his suit against the Queen Insur
ance Co., on trial in the superior court
at Wenatchee last week, the jury gave
Mr. Violet a verdict for $1568. The
amount sued for was $1864.
Wheeler wants your drug business. 17
CONSTRUCTION OF SNOW
SHEDS NOW UNDER WAY
W. J. Hoy & Co. Establish Three Camps
in First Eight Miles—Hundreds
of Men Employed
W. J. Hoy & Co., a St. Paul con
tracting firm, who will construct the
snowsheds between Leavenworth and
the summit of the Cascades, a distance
of 38 miles, this week established three
camps between Leavenworth and Dru
ry, a distance of eight miles. The first
camp is located near the powerhouse of
the Tumwater Light & Water Co., one
and a half miles west of the town limits.
The other two are respectively five and
eight miles west from Leavenworth.
Three or four other camps will later be
established between Drury and the
summit. Approximately eight thous
and feet of sheds are to be constructed.
A reinforced concrete retaining wall
will be pat up on the hillside of the
track. The roof and supports are to be
of heavy timbers. From two to three
hundred men will be employed in the
work from now until next fall, when
the work is to be complete.
The experience of the past winter
made it quite plain that to protect the
road from interruption by snow slides
during the winter it was ud to the com
pany to protect every point exposed to
slides by substantial snow sheds. This
course was determined on and plans
made before the snow disappeared
early this spring. The cost of this
work is estimated to run over two mil
lion dollars. Hoy & Co. will have
their general office in Leavenwotth,
having rented a building on Eighth
street, opposite the postoffice.
Employes oi the contracting com
pany were busy all week assembling
material for the camps, supplies, etc.
While many of the camp supplies will
be shipt in, such things as meats, veg
etables, fruits and hundreds of other
things will be purchased light here,
and the trade growing out of the em
ployment of a large number of men
will add much to the business of Leav
enworth the coming summer.
Cricket Pest in Crant County
For the past three weeks we have
heard more or less about the cricket
pest in the neighboring county of Grant
but never with the thot that they were
a serious menace to the crops. Later
reports from that vicinity are to the
effect that the seriousness of their pres
ence has not been exaggerated. The
help of the towns people and the
school children has been called on and
they responded. The crickets travel
in tremendous number, often covering
an area of a mile or more in width and
a quarter or half mile in depth. The
ground is literally black with them.
Trenches are dug in the line of their
march, fifteen or sixteen inches deep
and eighteen inches wide, into which
the crickets fall, unable to get out
others fall on top of them and then
they begin to devour each other.
They are destroyed by pouring kero
sene on them and then setting fire to
the oil. The crickets are making in
the direction of the wheat fields. In
the path of a cricket army nothing is
left but solid wood, iron and other
metals and hard substances.
Club Elects Officers
The Kumtux Club met Thursday af
ternoon at the home of Mrs. J. B.
Adams and the following named offi
cers were elected for the ensuing
year: Miss Clela Bullis, pres.; Mrs.
E. K. Barnum, vice pres.; Mrs. Frank
Carlquist, secy.; Mrs. W. A. Hearst,
treas.; Mrs. D. H. Mayar, parliamen
tarian. Mrs. C. A. Hayden and Mrs.
Barnum were elected delegates to the
State Federation, which meets next
month in Everett.
Will Brender made a trip to Seattle
this week returning Wednesday night.
He says his brother Lou, who is under
the care of a physician, is getting on
all right and will be back in a week or
ten days.
Our Job Printing
department is com
plete. Ir you want
High Class printing
at reasonable prices,
come to this office.
$1.50 Per Year
Moves to Brewster
E. A. Wood has moved to a new lo
cation. The Pateros Reporter of last
week says:
E. A. Woods, who has been operat
ing a pool room and confectionery
store in this city for some time, com
menced to move his tables and stock
to Brewster today. Mr. Wood always
conducted a good clean place, a place
that would be a credit to any city and
we are sorry to see him leave Pateros,
but wish him success in his new loca
tion. We believe an effort should have
been made to keep Mr. Wood in this
city. It takes business houses to make
a city and every business house we
lose means a backset to the commu
nity."
Mr. Wood left here about a year ago
for the upper country and evidently
concluded Brewster was the coming
town.
WASHINGTON LETTER
By Special Oorrospondoiit J. E. Jones
Reopening of Canal
Goethals is on top of the job again,
and he has the Panama canal open to
traffic. The waterway has virtually
been closed for seven months, during
which time the dredging fleet has re
moved a mountain or two. But in
such a task as the building of the Pan
ama canal minor things hardly count.
There have been some attempts at
Washington to stir up trouble for Col
onel Goethals, but the inspiration of
the efforts in this direction appeared
to eminate from rival interests engaged
in dredge contracts. Advices received
at the national capital are to ihe effect
that Colonel Goethals feels that his
task is about finished, and he expects
to return to the United States within a
few months.
"Seeing Washington"
The school boys and girls, bless
them, are arriving in Washingtod by
the trainload, availing themselves of
the annual custom to visit the National
Capital. Perhaps there is no city in
the country, not excepting New York,
that entertains as many strangers daily
as Washington. The railroads this year
are offering exceptionally low excur
sion rates, enabling school children to
come (or distances of several hundred
miles for a few dollars. Inasmuch as
congress is in session the young peo
ple are enjoying every opportunity to
witness the manner in which the coun
try is managed. Every person should
visit Washington at least once; and the
inspiration that they receive from the
visit is sure to make them feel that
they are better and more patriotic
Americans as a result of their pilgrim
age.
"Ruining Washington"
There is a good deal of hysteria in
Washington because it is proposed to
establish a government power plant,
with smokestacks, near the center of
its magnificent park system. The "artis
tic temperament" has revolted and the
claim is set forth that the buildings of
American type and chimneys that really
bum American coal will despoil that
section of the city, where there are
statues like those of Lincoln and Wash
ington, that are absolutely free of
resemblance to "atrocious American
style." It is quite true that there is an
incongruity in the proposition of erect
ing structures out of keeping with the
general style of their surroundings,
therefore the objections are really well
founded. However, most of the talk
about "ruining Washington" comes
from people who have very exaggerated
notions of the differences in the rights
of people, and draw their conclusions
somewhat along class lines.
Prof. J. H. Osborn, who has been in
charge of our schools for the past two
years, was recently employed for tKe
the two coming: years. The board
made no mistake. Under the guidance
of Prof. Osborn our school has made
commendable progress the past two
years. So far only three teachers have
been engaged for next year. When
the list is completed, which will be
soon, we will print the full list.
