The Telegraph service of The
Daily Gate City apd Constitu
tion-Democrat is received over
our own leased wire.
VOL. 122. NO. 102.
Positive Assurances Have Reached the Ameri
can Embassy at Berlin That Present
Crisis Has Passed.
GERMANY AND AMERICA STILL FRIENDLY
Strong Corroboration of Exclusive Announce
ment of Thursday That There Was No
V, .Danger of Rupture.
I TBy William G. Shepherd, United bet-ween the United States and Ger
Press Staff Correspondent.] many on the boat issue has passed
THE HAG-TIB, April 28.—Positive —at least for the present. The eager
issurance« have reached the American ness with which officials grasped the
embassy In Berlin that there will be news, indicated plainly the uncer
lio diplomatic rupture between Ger- tainty prevailing here.
I many and the United States growing I There is a growing tendency be
oat of the present crisis, was learned cause of this uncertainty, to remain
today from reliable sources. (absolutely non-committal on the Ger-
The embassy attaches last Saturday situation. It has been plainly
quietly began packing their personal indicated for some days now that all
effects. On Wednesday assurances of b°Pe was based on a belief that
a nature as yet unrepealed caused '!_le[e would he a way out- What
them to abandon their preparations
far leaving Berlin.
The American colony in Berlin re
ceived word late yesterday that there
is no prospect at least of an early
break. This Information was received
in messages to a leading Dutch busi
ness house last night. One message
iatd that the crisis appanntly had
passed, but that 1f for some unfore
seen reason a break should come. It
would certainly not be before May
fifth. No reason wa» given in the
messages from Germany to' the con-
Notwithstanding censored press
messages from Germany to the con
trary, the populace of Berlin has shown
hostility to Americans since the arriv
al of President Wilson's latest not-5.
There have been no noisy demonstra
tions, but Americans appearing in pub
lic places, have been made to feel un
comforta ole. Most of the Americans
•re remaining indoors as much as pos
sible on the advice of the Berlin po
lice. ,v
[The above dispatch from a United
Press staff correspondent at The Hague
furnished strong corroboration of -ja
exclusive dispatch from Carl
Optimism Increased..
tBy Robert J. Bender, United Press
Staff Correspondent.]
WASHINGTON, April 28.—Optim
ism increased today on receipt of the
dispatches frorfi Berlin and The
Eague telling that danger of a bTeak
Twenty Thousand Volunteers
on This Side, Would Fight
For Liberty.
NBW YORK. April 2S.—Mrs. Agnes
Newman, sister of Sir Roger Case
ment, Irish leader, now awaiting trial
In the Tower of London for his part in
the Irish revolt, will appeal to Presi
dent Wilson to save her brother's lif?.
The announcement was made here
her attorney, Michael Francis
•Doyle of Philadelphia. The appeal
JrtU be on humanitarian grounds.
®oy'e believes the precendent set in
case of Edith Cavell, nurse exe
cntefl by the Germans in Belgium, Is
adequate to warrant a plea by Ameri
ca for Sir Roger's life. Fn the Cavell
ewe, Brand Whitlock. United States
Sinister to Belgium urged that the
«rder to shoot Miss Cavell be suspend
ed.
If possible Mrs. Newman will per
sonally present her case to the presl
calling attention to Sir Roger's
abolition of the Putumayo rubber at
Jpclties and to his good work in the
Congo.
It she Is denied a personal interview
Doyle will present the facta. Mrs.
that
wa'
w.
Ack-
erman, United Press staff correspond
ent at Berlin yesterday that the Ger
man-American crisis has virtually
passed and that there will be no break
"predicated on developments to date.''
Ackerman's information was obtained
froih authoritative sources in Berlin.
Shepherd obtained his information
rrom diplomats at The Hague and
from a certain Dutch business housi
'Which is unusually well informed on
affaire at Berlin.]
would be, none would fore-
cast.
When the German reply will reach
this country is fixed at any time from
Saturday night to a week hence, the
latter day being considered llkliest.
The cabinet met today, but it is un
derstood had little news from Ambas
sador Gerard upon which to base a
decision on the international situa
tion. ..'••• ...*"1?.
Gerard to Meet Kaiser.
[By Carl W. Ackerman, United Press
Staff Correspondent.]
BERLIN, April 28.—Ambassador Ge
rard was due to arrive at grand army
headquarters this afternoon for the fin
al conference with the kaiser that is
to precede the forwarding of the Ger
man reply to Washington.
First Secretary Grew accompanied
the ambassador when he left Berlin
in a special car placed at Ills disposal
late last night. The ambassador said
he expected to return to Berlin on Sun
day.
When Gerard started for the confer
ence with the kaiser he had not yet re
ceived from Washington an answer to
the messages he sent, following his
two conferences with Chancellor Von
Bethmann-Hollweg. He left instruc
tions that tHMe replies be forwarded
to him at army headquarters by spe
cial courier if they are received before
tonight.
Some queer ideas were received in
Berlin early this week while the sit
uation was still tense. Tne old stoi-y
that President Wilson has entered in
to secret agreement with England and
to throw the United States to the side
of the allies was repeated and several
members of the reichstag actually
went bo far as to repeat it to Ambas
sador Gerard who made a vigorous de
nial.
Other Germans buttonholed Ameri-
^Continued on Page 8.)
AMERICAN IRISH HOPE
TO TAKE PART IN STRUGGLE
Newman came here from Ireland threa
months ago.
The first brigade of Irish volunteers
at a meeting here have declared them
selves "in sympathy with men who are
lighting for freedom in Ireland."
At the meeting it was stated that
there are 20.000 Irish volunteers in the
United States, many of them veterans
of the Spanish-American war. A
statement Issued said:
"The board of officers of the first
brigade, speaking for themselves and
for every man in the command, ex
pf^gg the hope that circumstances
may enable them, before the struggle
for Irish liberty ends, to give practi
cal demonstrations of their love for
the mother land."
Every man of the volunteers, the
statement said, is ready to give his
life's blood in defense of the stars and
stripes. ..
The rrish here are interested in the
statement of Colonel Patrick J. Wal
lace, commander of a Connemara bri
gade of Irish volunteers that there are
200,000 men in Ireland ready to fight
the English. He said the Irish are
still holding their ground in Dublin
and that it Is his belief that a muni
tions ship has landed
supplies
southwest coast
on the
since
the destruction
of the Casement vessel. Wallace said
the Irish volunteers will declare for
an Irish republic If they get complete
control.
LONDON, April 28,—The British
battleship Russell tias been sunk in
the Mediterranean, the admiralty an
nounced this afternoon.
The 'Russell was one of the older
British battleships, having been con
structed in 1900-01. 8he displaced
14,000 tons and was 405 feet long
with a beam of 73 feet. She was
built at a cost of about $5,000,000.
The Russell normally oarrled
crew of 826 man. Her armament in
eluded four twelve Inch guns, twelve
six inch and twenty guns of lesser
calibre. She carried also tour tor
pedo tubes. The battleship Montagu,
a sister ship of the Russell, was
wrecked on Lundy in 1906.
RUSSELL STRUCK A MINE.
LONDON, .April 2&—The British
battleship Russell struck a mine and
sank In the Mediterranean yesterday,
the admiralty announced this after
noon, Of the crew of about 824,124
officers and men are missing and be
lieved to have perished.
Admiral Freemantle, Captain W. B.
Smith, 22 officers and 676 men of the
Russell's crew were saved.
'ENEMY SUBMARINE SUNK.
LONDON, April 28.—A German
submarine was sunk off the east
coast of England yesterday, the ad
miralty announced this afternoon.
The crew of eighteen surrendered.
Amsterdam dispatches today re
ported the sinking of another Ger
man submarine by a British patrol
boat between the Shetland islands
and the Irish coast on April 17, quot
ing Dutch newspapers as authority.
The Dutch steamers Kawl and
(Continued on Page 8.)
CONSTANTINOPLE, April 28.—
Turkiah troops completely annihilated
four British cavalry squadrons (about
700 men) in an attack on the village
of Quatia, twenty-five milea east of
the Suez canal, it was officially an
nounced today.
"Turkish troops attacked the
strongly fortified enemy positions
near Quatia, destroying the larger
part of the positions and the whole
camp," aald the official statement.
"The enemy suffered heavy losses.
The survivors fled hastily toward the
canal.
"On Tuesday, an enemy'a air squad
ron composed of nine aeroplanes, to
avenge the defeat, raided Quatia and
dropped about seventy bombs upon a
hospital which flew a Geneva Red
Cross flag. Turkish aeroplanes suc
cessfully attacked a British warship
near El Kantara, on the Suez, the
docks at Port Said and enemy camps
between Port Said and El Kantara,
returning unharmed.
[By E. T. Conkle, United Press Staff
Correspondent.]'
EL PASO, Texas, April 28.—Gen
erals Obregon and Trevino and a big
escort pf Carranza troops arrived
in Juarez today by special train
for the conferences with Generals
Scott and Funston that are expected
to settle the future American military
policy in Mexico.
While Obregon has announced he
would attempt to obtain the prompt
withdrawal of the United States expe
dition, Carranza officials here private
ly favored its continued presence on
Mexican soil for a time, owing to the
critical international situation facing
the defacto government.
Renewed reports of the increasing
uneasiness of Carranza's hold on
Mexico, were received today, simul
taneously with evidence of currency
depreciation and threatened famine.
An appeal to the American Red Cross
or Rockefeller foundation for food
supplies Is considered a possibility.
The net result of the conferences
is expected to be an agreement that
the United States troops remain
where they are until the Carranza
government has a chance to make
good on Villa's capture and I the paci
fication of the northern Mexican bor
der territory.
Scott and Funston will arrive to
night. A ceremonial session of the
conferees probably will be held In the
Juarez customs house tomorrow, but
the military calefa are not expected
to get down to their real business be
fore Monday. Estimates of the dura
tion of the conferences vary from a
few days to two weeks.
While the first session probably
will be held at Juarez as a sop to
Mexican pride, the remainder of the
conferences are expected to take
ylace in El Paso. Batteries of mov­
anb (Const itutton-jBemotrat. "f*
KEOKUK, IOWA, FRIDAY, APRIL 28, 1916
PEACE TELEGRAMS
BY II
f:
Crest of the Flood ff
Beached and the 1
pouring is Di
minishing.
3611
WHO PAID PO^ I 1EM?
Operators Were Not Sorry Over the
Rush of Business Which
Brought Them Extra
Pay.
WASHINGTON, April 28.—'When
telegraph companies began casting up
totals on the peace messages that
have flooded congress this week they
found figures staggering. Today's es
timate was that between 140,000 and
150,000 will be the number when all
are counted. They are still coming in,
though in lessening numbers.
The cost of this gigantic enterprise
Is now estimated at $250,000. This
fact impelled Senator Rusting to say
he would demand senatorial investiga
tion of the source of funds. In the fin
al rush of the last two days the send
ers abandoned day and night letters
and sent many at straight commercial
rates, some messages costing $4 and
$5 each. Telegraph operators mourned
today the subsidence of the flood o!
telegrams. Many of the operators who
worked over time on the "bonus sys
tem" are reported to have made $12
to $15 a day. Working on the "piece
system" they rigged up mimeograph
copies of the telegrams so that the
whole work of "taking a message" was
to write its number, and then select
the proper "form" for the text, signer
and the person to whom.lt was ad
dressed. The crest of the flood was
reached a't midnight Wednesday.
Coordinate with the desire of con
gressmen today to know where the
money came from, was the desire to
know who put the stop order on the
telegrkms. It was rumored the origi
nal plan had been to bombard congress
with 500,000 telegrams. Shortly be
fore Senator Hustings suggested a
public Inquiry k-an Francisco reported
10,000 telegrams on hand for Washing
ton and Milwaukee reported 5.000. A
few hours later the San Francisco and
Milwaukee offices reported the tele
grams had 'been ordered cancelled by
senders.
Von Capelle at Conference.
BERLIN, April 28.—Admiral Von
Capelle, successor of Von Tirpitz as
secretary of the imperial German ad
miralty, left Wednesday for grand
army headquarters to confer with the
kaiser, presumably with regard to
the American note, it was announced
today.
Carranza Wants Troops to Remain
While the Situation is so Critical
ing picture operators and scores of
interpretators and secretaries have
assembled for the meetings. Obregon,
as war minister and ranking higher
than the American conferees, will be
allowed to decide the details of the
conferences.
Juarez, where Villa sentiment is
strong, will be under heavy Carranza
guard during Obregon's presence at
the bolder.
A decree issued by Luis Cabrera,
Mexican secretary of the treasury,
brohibits the export of gold or silver
bars and coin. In El Paso this is
believed to be a final attempt to put
the Carranza government on a strong
er financial basis for handling its in
ternal problems. Refugees reported
the most frightful conditions of pov
erty in interior Chihuahua and Dur
ango. Typhus was reported to be
spreading.
Want Use of Railways.
SAN ANTONIO, Texas. April 28.—|
Headquarters of the American ex-(
pedition turned its attention to Juarez
today as Ohief of Staff Scott andi
General Funston Journeyed toward!
the Mexican border" town for their
conference with General Obregon, the
CarranziS'ta war minister. Specula
tion became rife, with their departure,
as to the concessions each side would
demand in the coming meeting,
Scott's first undertaking, it was un
derstood, being to convince Obregon
of the justice of the American atti
tude. Unrestricted use of the Mexi
can railways was one of the most im
portant concessions he will seek, ac
cording to the belief here, as a means
of-hastening the expedition's depart
ure through speedy attainment of its
object.
The entire attitude of the adminis
tration bvwasd tte defacto gonru
A
.'A
mm
IS STILL IN MAD TURMOIL
FRANCE
PARIS, April 28 Numerous air
raids along the western front in which
German planes, including a Fokker
were brought down, were reported by
the war office today.
There were no Important activities
on the whole front excepting Inter
mittent bombardment northwest of
Verdun.
A French squadron dropped eigh
teen bombs on La Marche station In
the Woevre. One German plane at
tacked by the French dropped near
Douaumont badly damaged, and an
other fell near Montfaucon. A French
aviator, piloting a Nieuport mono
plane defeated a Fokker which fell
behind the German lines.
The Germans dropped shells at in
frequent intervals (luring the night
in the region of Avocourt, Efenes and
Fromezy.
MORE RUS3IAN8 ARRIVE.
MARSEILLES, April 28.—A third
convoy of 'Russian troops was landed
here today.
The third Russian contingent
marched through the sitneets to the
accompaniment of bands and was
escorted by French troops to a camp
Just outside the city, Joining the sec
ond contingent landed a few days
ago, which has not yet moved for
ward to the western front.
[The Marseilles dispatch omits any
mention of the number of Russians
landed, though Berlin newspapers
assert that only 6,000 Russians were
aboard the fiTst transports that reach
ed Marseilles. Shipping men in New
York have received reports that from
100,000 to 260,000 Russians would be
moved to France.]
BERLIN, April 28.—There was no
change in the situation on the Verdun
front last night, the war office stated
this afternoon.
East of Vermelles, forty-six English
soldiers, two machine guns and a
mine thrower were captured. A Ger
man air squadron bombarded an ene
my barracks at St. Menehould.
BOMB ON BATTLESHIP.
BERLIN, April 28.—Three German
aeroplanes yesterday dropped bombs1
upon the Russian battleship Slava. I
The admiralty announced this after-:
noon that several hits were distinctly
observed and that fires broke out.
All the aeroplanes returned safely,
despite heavy shell fire.
The Slava, a 13,516 ton battleship,
was a sister ship of the Imperator
Alexander III, Borodino and Knyaz
Suvorow, which were sunk in the
battle of the Sea of Japan on May
27, 1905. Another ship of the same
class was captured the next day by
the Japanese.
ment, hinges on the conference, It
was broadly hinted at headquarters
just before the army heads departed.
Scott and Funston however, flatly re
fused to say what ends they hope to
gain through the meeting.
Twelve New Aeroplanes.
SAN ANTONIO. Texas, April 28.—
Twelve new aeroplanes, each of 160
horse power will be available for ser-
sent to Columbus have proved un-
campaign and will be taken out of
ENGLAND IS IN PERIL
His point of landing Is a secret, as
are ail other details concerning the
progress of the rebellion in the past
twenty-four hours. The press bureau,
however, hopes to bo able to give out
a statement in the course of the day
dealing with the Irish disorders.
Both the press and public admit to
day that the Irish rebellion confronts
England with the gravest crisis since
the war began. (The fact that the
British censor passed this expression
is indicative of the seriousness of
the Irish situation.) The pnblic has
no knowledge as to the extent to
•which the revolt has spread, beyond
Promler Asquith's statement mention
ing certain counties in particular. It
has been reported from time to time,
however, that the counties of Meath
and Louth, north of Dublin as well as
the western counties of Clare, Tippe
rary and Limerick were centers of
Sinn Fein activities.
A limited passenger service to Ire
land was restored today, but the
rigid censorship on all despatches
from Irish cities continues. Wild
rumors are in circulation regarding
the progress of the street fighting in
Dublin where the rebels at last re
ports held the postofflce and other
buildings, but nothing definite is
known here.
The public is demanding the early
execution of Sir Roger Casement who
is described in the newspapers as
strutting about in his cell in the
Tower of London, boasting of his suc
cess in starting the Dublin revolts.
Statements that Sir Roger's life
would be spared because he is men
tally unbalanced, have aroused in
tense indignation.
According to one story in circula
tion in London, Sir Roger's identity
Coal Miners Return to W
While Others Prepare to
Leave Their Jobs.
6, to replace thei remaining planes^of Pittsburgh Railways company before I da v.
the original air fleet and those added vrnT
later, it was announced today. Four! „,nn V»
ninety horsepower machines recently
H°Pe
that the
no*
S°
out was
equal to the rigors of the Mexican 'n Westinghouse strike zone 1 ug of ocean freight.
there have
service Tuesday when four of the "within the last twelve hours and some
new machines, the first batch, arrive. arrests, but no formidable disturbances
The new machines are of the Cur-
have
|J| THE WEATHEB
Fair and warmer. Local temp
—7 p. m. 60 7 a. m.
Admission is Made That Gravest Crisis Now
Exists Since the Beginning of the
Great War. -:.f,
REBELS STILL IN DUBLIN POSTOFRCE
Sir John Maxwell, Hero of Egyptian War of
1882, Put in Charge of Troops Sent"
Over to Ireland.
LONDON, April 28.—General Sir
John Maxwell, hero of the Egyptian
war of 1882, arrived in Ireland today
and assumed Immediate command of
the troops which will suppress the
rebellion.
STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS ij
INVOLVE MANY WORKERS
^en seme minor disorders
developed.
tiss type. The manufacturers are understood
Arousing the Natives. agreement to treat only with their own «r
[By H. iD. Jacobs, United Press Staff men.
Correspondent.] I
GENERAL PERSHING'S HEAD- Biggest Ever Known Promised.
QUARTERS, NEAR ^NAMIQUTPA,' NEW YORK. April 28.—A strike of,
Mexioo, .April 28.—Villa sympathizers shipping employes of greater propor-! the Cloak. Suit and Skirt Manufacf.u
in towns along the Mexico North- tions than New York has ever known ers Protective association will be lock
western railroad have been actively is impending and may start Monday, ed out tonight following the failure ol
engaged in trying to arouse the na- according to indications today. Tf com-1 conciliation efforts employers annonnc
tives against the American troops, plete, the strike would involve long- ed today. About 30,000 are cn the tho
according to wireless reports receiv- shoremen, barge crews, marine engin- pay-rolls. The lockout is expected t.
ed at 'headquarters today from the eers and dock men. The longshoremen be followed at once by a strike of th
employed by the American Dock com-: cloak and suit workers in 1.800
iPontlnued on jany, Stat
en. Island are now striking •hops,
S
TEN PAGES
was not knorwn nntll his oaptors
reached Dublin with him.
Sir Roger has made a partial oon
fession of his part In the conspiracy,
but has steadfastly refused to name
any of his fellow conspirators in Ire
land. He told officers who questioned
him, that the Germans counted first
on harrassing England by a series of
air and sea raids against the east
coast, during holy week. While these
raids were being made, he was to be
landed in Ireland with a picked force
that would gather recruits and march
eastward toward Dublin.
Weather conditions spoiled the Ger
man plans, he surmised, on learning
that the Zeppelins had failed to strika
at England last week.
News Is Held Back.
NEW YORK. April 28.—Since the
arrival of a cable dispatch from Lon
don at 7:08 a. m. today, the United
Press has received no advices regard
ing the situation in Ireland, indicat
ing a very strict censorship on news
of the rebellion. The dispatch re
ceived at that hour was filed tn Lon
don at 9:04 a. m„ and was delayed in
transmission about three hours.
Elect Rebekah Officers.
BOWEN, April 28.—Officers were
elected Thursday morning at the clos
ing session of the eighteenth annual
Rebekahs assembly of the twelfth
district here. A number of promi
nent Odd Fellows and Rebekahs at
tended the sessions. Following are
the officers elected:
President—Mrs. Lyon of Macomb.
Vice-president—Lizzie Maxwell ol
La Harpe.
Warden—Eva Walton of Denver.
Secretary—Susie Cecil of Bowen.
Treasurer—Mattie Hlbbard of Nau
voo.
J?
The meat-eating tendency of the
American shows an inclination to de
cline.
The state labor department is work-
__ Ing hard to bring about an agreement
OrK
and
thus prevent the calling out of tha
men of the Master Stevedores associa-
tion.
A general strike by the stevedores.
It is feared, wo.ild be the torch that
will start the entire industrial confla
gration and result in May Day strikes
PITTSBURGH, Pa., April 28.—While Involving more that 100,000 men.
25,000 coal miners on strike since last I Two impulses 3re behind the present
Saturday trooped back to work today feeling of restlessness among the
with their demands granted, carmen wvrkers: First, to have the employer
r- -vr were voting 100 to 1 to strike unless generally recognize the unions and
tn 'theIr
demands
were
granted by the .grant their demands for an eight hour
carmen would share in the enormously high pay the
abandoned here. shippers are receiving for their hand-
1,500 Claim Lockout
YOUNGSTOWN, Ohio, April 28.—
'Fifteen hundred employes of the Re-m
1
Six officers of the Sixth cavalry to- 'to have banded together and voted a today following the closing of the
day were ordered to Columbus to I large sum of money to fight any or-: plant. The men say they were locked
bring their regiment up to war jganlzed movement to unionize the out because some of the machinists
strength. Pittsburgh district. Estimates of the -were asking for axi eight hour day with
No word was received from General :amount subscribed ranged from $2,000,. fifty cents an hour minimum prices.
Pershing today. His reports, how- 000 to $5,000,000. A conference com- Factory officials state t.he shop was
ever, are expected to be forwarded to mlttee of the machinists was trying closed to take an Inventory,
headquarters here as usual, despite today to arrange a meeting with a Youngs town factories employing 40,
the absence of General Funston at similar committee for the manufactur- 000 men have banded together to op
the Obregon conference. ers, but their efforts did not promise pose any further concessions to men
success. The manufacturers have an
public Rubber Co., were out of work
in
shorter hours, a closed shop or higta-
pay
Lockout Tonight.
New YORK, April 28.—Garment
workers In the 409 shops controlled byl
