OFFICIAL PAPER OF CITY AND COUNTY
VOL. LVII. NO. 36
Cresco Milk Co.
Net Price.
Notice!
llie Farmers' Creamery at Cresco will Commence
Business Next Monday, May 1st, as Successors to the
This is a Creamery by the Farmers and All Profits
go to Benefit the Farmers.
Bring in your Milk or Cream and be a Booster,
which will mean Corrett Tests and Better Prices. All
Patrons, whether shareholders or not, will be paid
tfce Same Price, as only the cost of production and a
small per cent, for a sinking fund will be dedudled.
Remember, they want your Cream whether you wish
to become a shareholder or not. The more produce,
the lower the cost of production, and the better the
Hew Adventist Church for Cresco.
'Th« local congregation of Adven
'tists are arranging to build a new
•church this season, expecting to com
•mence early in June, on a lot on 4th
.Ave. East, north of the high school
ibuilding. They contemplate the erec
ition of a frame building to cost $4000
to $5000. The lot was donated to the
•congregation which though small is
•constantly growing, 25 new members
•having been recently added through
ithe effort* of Elder Wolfe.
For Sale.
Imported Dwarf Victoria Rape Seed.
The best noee loo good. Being the
^rtt4aHto^oetfair^«a»fy^rage
•plant into this part of Iowa, we are
sure of its great feeding qualities.
Enquire of 38w6 C. D. NICHOLS.
''The Cozy" to Reopen,
"The Cozy" picture show will reopen
soon under the management of Clyde
Mitchell, who with his wife returned
last week from Fergus Falls, Minn.,
where they have been at work for M.
W. Appleby. The building is being re
modeled somewhat to permit the in
stallation of a new picture machine,
the very best obtainable.
Lecture Postponed.
The fourth and last lecture of the
course which was to have been given
in the First Lutheran Church, Friday
April 28, has been postponed indefinite-
s.
For Sale oa Rent
Home formerly owned by L. J. Glass
Enquire of Clark Bros.
iifjiyMBIjppaw
Cresco Plain Dealer.
Do you know that the women of this
state are asking for full suffrage?
June 5th.
Do you know that Judge Lindsey of
Colorado said: "It is little short of a
crima to deny women the same rights
as men to partcipate in the govern
ment in which they live."
Do you know that the late Moot Uev,
Patrick Riordan of San Francisc said:
"Our Catholic people should be not only
law abiding citizens, but should take a
part in the making of the laws under
which they live, and in the election of
officers worthy to administer the laws
when made. This is true for women
as well as men."
Do you know that Theodore Roose
velt said: "It is the right of women to
have the ballot it is the duty of men
to give it."
Do you know there are 770,055 wom
en engaged in agricultural pursuits in
the United States.
Do you know all the women of Iowa
are classed at election time with the
"idiots, insane and criminals?" Vote
them out June 5th.
Rev. Gammons preached a splendid
sermon in favor of franchise of Woman
using the bible as his authority.
"'Peg0' My Heart."
A goodly sized audience witnessed a
fine production of this high class comedy
at "The Cresco" on Tuesday evening.
Had the weather and roads been more
favorable, the opera house would have
been filled to its capacity. The play
which is replete with quaint humor, was
presented by a most capable and well
balanced company, each member evi
dently selected especially for peculiar
ability to fill the role assigned. Thisj
attraction doubtless closes the best of
attractions for the season to be furn
ished by the opera house management,
who deserve the thanks of the commun
ity for the high class attractions secur
ed for their pleasure and entertain
ment.
Slaughter Sale
During the month of May, on Flour,
Feed and Groceries we will give a re
duced .price for cash only. Do not miss
the' chanee. It will pay you to come and
buy from us. We will save you money.
F. C. WOELLSTEIN,
3612 the Square Dealer.
PLU 5K, F»RTOGRESS, PERSEVERANCE AND PATRIOTISM IN POLITICS
Equal Suffrage Notes.*
Our Big Stock of Printzess Suits and Coats
Is stilljcomplete in every way. We have had new suits and coats shipped us nearly every day right up to East
er, so do not think that because you have put off buying your Spring Coat or Suit until now that you won't find
just what you want. We have replenished our stock until we are sure that we have got the Coat or Suit that you
are looking for. We have all sizes, all colors, and the newest of styles. But no matter what style of a Printzess
Garment you pick out you can feel perfectly satisfied that you have selected one that all the dictators of fashion
have decreed to be right up to the minute, as to fit, style and material. And as to linings, we can truthfully say
that you have never seen more beautiful linings than is to be found in a Printzess Suit or Coat, and are absolutely
guaranteed to give perfect satisfaction, or a new lining without cost. Do not fail to see our Printzess Suits at
$20.00.
You will find more style, abetter fit, better linings and better workmanship for that money than can be I
found elsewhere. Let us prove this to you in the near future.
CRISSCO, HOWARD COUNTY, IOWA, FRIDAY. APRIL 28, 1916 $1.00 PER YEAR
Methodist Notes.
The Pastor will preach both morning
and evening next Sunday at 10:30, the
topic will be, "After Easter, What?"
At 7:30, "A Neglected Friend." The
Sunday school will convene at 11:45 as
usual. The Easter program pre
pared under the leadership of Mr.
Claude Weatherford was excellent, and
the decoations provided by Miss Mary
Roce's class did credit to those young
ladies and their teacher. If you are|not
in the school we will be glad to'welcome
you among our boys and girls—ther's a
fine crowd, all right. The Epworth
League will meet at 6:45 and the Junior
League at 3 p. m..
The Pastor will be absent a couple of
days this week at District Conference
at Independence.
Read the letter you receive this week
through twice before you lay it down,
it will grow on you.
Baptist Church.
The usual services will be held at the
Baptist Chtfrch next Sunday. Morn
ing theme, "A Soul Not Valued."
Evening topic, "Out of Egyptian Bond
age."
If you have no church home, come
around and worship with us. Strang
ers are always welcome.
J. A. PETTIT, Pastor.
Adventist Church Notes.
Fel-
The usual services at the Odd
lows hall Saturday this week.
S. S. 1:30 p. m., preaching services
2:30 prayer meeting and S. S. Teach
ers meeting Friday at 7:30 p. m., at
Mrs. Fred Graham's. No services Sun
day night. Everyone welcome to our
services E. W. WOLFE, Pastor:
Congregational Church.
All regular services next Sunday
morning, theme: "A Glorious Church."
Evening, "Babblers."
Special music at both services under
direction of Mrs. Swenaon.
Morning and evening services at 10:30
and 7:30. Sunday school at a quarter
before twelve.
W. A. BOCKOVEN, Pastor.
Far Sale.
TUtform spring wagon, truclc wagon
with box and bay rack. SomefcOod
work horses.
36-2t AHERN BROS.
C. D. NICHOLS & SON, Cresco, Iowa
—, ——J
Beloved Minister Leaves Marshall.
Rev. W. A. Bockoven closed his pas
torate in the Congregational Church
last Sunday. On Wednesday he left
with his family for Cresco, Iowa, where
he has accepted a call to the Congre
gational Church.
Five years ago, Mr. Bockoven came
to Marshall. His pastorate has been
one of the most successful in the his
tory of the church. He won the re
spect not only of the members of his
church but of the citizens of the town
by his fairness, his firmness and his
allegiance to principles.
Mr. Bockoven is one of the best
ministers Marshall has had. It is with
genuine regret that the church and the
community parts with him and his
family.—The News Messenger.
Married.
On Saturday evening, April 22nd, at
the home of the bride's mother, Mrs.
Martha Camerson, Rev. Gammons per
formed the marriage ceremony for
Joseph H. Burgess, youngest son of
Mr. and Mrs. H. C. Burgess and Miss
Laura Cameron. Both of the princi-1
pals are graduates of the Cresco High
School and later students at the State
University. The groom is associated
with his father and brothers in Bur
gess & Sons Lumber Co., and after a
brief honeymoon trip to Chicago the
young couple will reside in the Camer
on cottage on Third Ave. East. Both
bride and groom have a wide circle of
friends in Cresco and vicinity who wish
them a full measure of success and
happiness during their life's journey.
The Palace Pop Corn Stand.
A. P. Mosher, "the old Reliable"
popcorn man, has opened up for the
season at his old stand on the north
west corner of the Court House Square
and will make a specialty of hot, BUT
TERED popcorn, and fresh roasted
peanuts. He will also carry a side line
of crackerjack, chewing gum and
cigars. Give him a call if you want
the best in hid line.
Evangelical Church
Preaching j^yices next
morning.following the S«
Flora nravy» FirsngslifsW
Services in Ridgoway Evangelical
church Sunday evening at 8 o'clock.
Everybody invited to attend these
services.
i|?-y ^ftv,o.Y-M
BY MEAD PUBLISHING COMPANY
Roral
Baking
Powder
AbsotafefcrPwe
Made from
Graam of Tartar
Dtrlftd frm firaps
Democratic County Convention*
In accordance with the provision ot
the Presidential Preference Primary
law, the delegates who have rec^iv^d
notification from the County Auditor 01
their eleotion at the primary held Aprit
10th, will meet at the Court Housq Mk
Cresco on May 6th at 11 a. m., to se*
leot seven delegates to represent How
ard County at the State Convention to
be held at Clinton, Iowa. May 19th,
and to transact any other business
which may properly come before th*
convention.
C, FOLEY,
Sec. Democratic County Com*
Card of Thanks.
We wish to thank each and all of
those who, in so many ways, kindly
and sympathetically assisted us in our
recent sorrow. Our sadness at the ab
sence of a beloved wife and mother baa
been greatly lightened by the generoua
aid given us at this time. ,-r
JOHN E. GBAF AND FAMILY.
For Sheriff.
I hereby announce myself as a caod*-.
te for the of Howwtf.-
of the Republican voters at. the
mary Election to be held. June Sth^
1916.
34-tf L. J. CAMERON,
