ofifi Tmjr a a ______
! A U WwL L, J&/AAZraS LUS
ELEVENTH YEAR. No. 39
One of the largest and most Impor
tant real estate and personal property
deals that has ever taken place In the
comity was closed Tuesday, very lar
gely through the. instrumentality of
Del Hart, of the Orovllle Investment
company, when \V. V. Champneys, the
pioneer stockman of the Simllkameen
valley, sold to T. L. Irwin, of Seattle,
his big ranch, cattle and everything
pertaining to the farm. The land rep
resented in the transactions embraces
tiSO acres, all of it. excepting a very
few acres, being the best hay land In
the northwest. There are 300 head of
cattle in prime condition. Owing to the
fact that Mr. Champneys had an abun
dance of feed, and is merciful to his
stock, the cattle passed through the
long, hard winter without a loss, and
are in better shape than most of the
large bands in the country. There were
also 37 head of horses and an endless
quantity of machinery and implements
required upon such an extensive farm.
The consideration is said to have been
$75,000.
Thh succssful issue of the negotia
-1 ion leading up to the final transfer
of this large tract of land, and attach
ments, is largely due to the diplomacy
of Mr. Hart, who acted as intermedi
ator between the seller and buyer.
Mr. Champneys has great confidence
in Mr. Hart’s judgment, and consulted
with him upon the wisdom and advisa
bility of making the trade before en
tering thereon.
The sale of so large a tract of land
at sucli flattering figures shows that
this country is coming to the atten
tion of shrewd and careful investors,
as it is only that kind of investors that
puts so large a sum in ranch proper
ties. It is an auspicious transaction
for the country, as it goes to show that
men of discernment and means are
investigating opportunities up this
way, and upon investigation have no
hesitancy in at once risking their
money. The buyer, Mr. Irwin, Is not
in the deal on speculation. He will
continue the slock business, as his
purchase is ideal tor that Industry. He
has every appearance of being a live,
wide awake, progressive gentleman,
who will take an interest in the up
building of the locality where he is
to make his home, and this neighbor
hood is fortunate that tills fine prop
erly lias fallen into the hands of such
a desirable citizen.
W. V. Champneys, more familiarly
known as “Vic,” is one of the pioneers
of Okanogan county. He secured a
foothold on the Similkaineen river
some 2~> years ago. His ambition was to
accumulate a large holding of bottom
land that would insure the success of
the stock business by providing ample
forage. Ueing a man of indomitable
energy and industry Mr. Champneys
bent his every effort and resource to
the one object lie had in view, and
gradually secured title to his large
acreage by buying up adjacent hold
ings. In its raw stage much of this
land was covered with a dense mass
oi undergrowth, but Mr. Champneys,
by unflaging labor, entered upon the
Herculean task of clearing the land,
which once clear of brush is the best
hay land in the state. Acre by acre he
removed this brush, until today the
once almost impenetrable tangle of
undergrowth is a broad verdant carpet
of grass.
no,
ng
3 Cl
den
it is not known what may be Mr.
Champneys plans for the future. He
has earned a long rest after the years
spent at gruelling hard work and self
denial. It is hoped by those who know
him that he will continue to be a resi
dent of the county; He has always been
known to lie scrupulously upright, fair
and just in his dealings with his fellow
men, and under his quiet exterior
beats a warm and generous heart.
Take him all around and there are few
better men than Vic Champpeys, and
we trust that he may live long to en
joy in peace and comfort the fruits
of his long years of labor.
Monday, W. K. Gamble, accompanied
by three witnesses, went to the salts
lake west of town and jumped the
same, tiling a mineral location notice
thereon, alleging in said notice as his
reason “that the same is abandoned
and forfeited.” This is a strange pro
ceeding and inexplicable allegation in
the face of the notorious fact that for
months a company has been extracting
salts from the lake, shipping the same
in car load lots to the east, and to
economize and expedite the work has
spent hundreds of dollars in buildings,
machinery and pipe lines. Mr. Gamble
may have something up his sleeve that
no one knows anything about, yet so
far as forfeiture •and abandonment is
concerned, no claim was ever located
upon which stronger evidence of occu
pancy and work could be produced.
We do not wish any body hard luck,
but if properties so well developed as
this salts lake are to be jumped) it
would be advisable for owners to
guard their claims with a shotgun.
A Itlt. TRANSFER,
WH IDEA I
DEATH OF LESLIE HILL.
Friday morning, April 21, Mr. Leslie
Hill died at his home on Osoyoos lake
after a very brief illness from acute
Bright's disease. The funeral and in
terment took place at Penticton Sat
urday afternoon.
Mr. Hill was aged 68 years. He was
born in England, but lived In Britsh
Columbia for many years. He leaves
three daughters, Miss Margery and
Miss Leslie Hill, and Mrs. C. Fernau,
who were present at his bedside dur
ing his last illness. The decasod has
for a number of years owned a largo
farm and orchard on Osoyoos lake,
just across the international boundary
line. This property is highly Improved,
and is one of the most attractive coun
try homes in southern British Colum
bia. Mr. Hill was a charming, intel
lectual gentleman, a fine specimen of
an English country squire. Physi
cally. he was a robust specimen of
manhood, to all appearances good for
many years of life. He was well known
in this community, and the news of
his sudden death came as a shock to
his numerous acquaintances.
COUNCIL MEETING.
Minutes of a special meeting of the
town council of the town of Oroville,
April 20, 1916.
Meeting called to order for the pur
pose of discussing and considering an
amendment to the town ordinance reg
ulating the use of water supplied by
the town.
Present, Mayor Samson, Councilmen
Beale, Friis and Smith.
The matter of amending ordinances
Xos. 50 and 58 were discussed, and
cn motion made and carried that or
dinances Nos. 50 and 58 be repealed
and a complete new ordinance be
drawn. The old ordinances were read
by sections and changes ordered in
several sections.
On motion council adjourned.
Minutes of the regular meeting of
the town council of the town of Oro
ville, April 24, 1916.
Minutes of the previous meeting
read and approved as read.
Present, Mayor Samson, Council
men Beale, Smith, Frlls and Bartell.
The resignation of Councilman Pet
erson was taken up and motion was
made and carried that the resignation
be accepted. After some discussion the
matter of electing a councilman to fill
(he (unexpired term of Councilman
Peterson was laid on the table.
Mr. Williams appeared before the
council asking what would be neces
sary to place the town water service
on his property in front of which there
Is no town mains laid. The matter was
explained to Mr. Williams and per
mission was given to lay the proposed
extension.
An ordinance relating to the use of
water supplied by the town was read
by sections and discussed. Motion was
made and carried that the ordinance
pass Its first and second reading.
On motion council adjourned.
E. R. HOOSE, Clerk.
A WORTHY OFFICIAL.
County Commissioner Hugh Miller
was in town Friday last on official
business in company with County En
gineer Horace Smith. They wore here
particularly to look after road matters
and to inspect the ramshackle bridge
across the Okanogan river at the
creamery. As a result of that visit, in
conjunction with some persuasive
work among land owners who were
balking on granting right-of-way, two
or three roads to the westward of
town will receive some long needed at
tention, and the old bridge will prob
ably be replaced with a safe and more
modern structure. In this connection
it is only just to an active, conscien
tious and efficient official to state
that Mr. Miller has treated all por
tions of his di irict fairly during his
term of office, showing no sectional
favoritism, as is too often tlie case.
Mr. Miller's term expires this year,
and that vacancy is to be tilled at the
fall election. It would only be a just
reward to a worthy gentleman if Mr.
Miller should be reelected without op
position. Anyhow, if he is a candidate
and any opposition develops, his op
ponent will be elected to remain in
private life.
There are some swell soda fountains
in Oroville, unusually nifty ones for a
town of this size, but one of the finest
and most expensive that has been in
stalled, is that put in during the past
week at The Palm by R. A. Jackson.
The large handsome mirror with its
neat decorations, the beautiful marble
upholstering and the elegant foun
tains with the best sanitary accessor
ies make the plant an ornamental
piece of furniture very attractive to
the eye. This costly and handsome
fountain will be a great puller for
trade when hot weather creates a de
mand for cool drinks,
OROVILLE, WASHIN ITON, APRIL 28, 1916
DIRT MOVING.
Say; what do you think of real es
tate activity in Oroville? Something
new, eh? It looks as though the old
town was waking up. What? See the
list of recent sales. All town lots and
of the buyers local people. Don’t that
the buyers local people. Most of the
buyers are in the game to improve.
The example will be a stimulus to
others. Things are starting off in the
way to give the impression that this
will be one of the livllest years that
Oroville has experienced since the
first coming of the railroad and Oro
ville secured a place on the map.
During the month of April the Oro
ville Investment company has dis
posed of 31 lots, representing a cash
value of $5,202.00. Among the purchas
ers were the following: Dan Pachlno,
lots 5 and G. block 40; Tony Marino,
lots S and 9, block 40; Comlno Parma,
lot 9, block 42; Oscar Smith, lot 12,
block 42; .1. A. Greely, lot 12, block 10;
J. 1,. Case, lot 13, block 10; M. McMill
an, lot 5, block 35; Mrs. M. Williams,
lots 5 and G, block 27; L. U. Anderson,'
lots 1 and 2, block 10; L. R. Thall
helmer, lot S. block 10; E. R. Hoose,
lot G, block 47; Mrs. N. E. Burkett,
lots 1 and 2, block 40; I). Drlscol, lot
G, block 35.
THE FIRST CAME.
The first match game of ball of the
season supplied joy for quite a collec
tion of fans on the local grounds Sun
day afternoon. The performers were
made up of Junior exponents of the
game, and a nine mostly of midgets
from Tonasket crossed bats with a
nine about in the same class, although
carrying more beef, from the local
school. When the two teams went up
on the field it looked like it was going
to be a slaughter of the innocents, but
the visiting innocents proved to be a
tough lot to handle, and the locals
pulled through by the narrow margin
so frequently mentioned as the skin
of the teeth. The game opened auspic
iously for the home club, giving the
Impression that Oroville had a cincfi,-
as three runs were pulled over by
some hard clouting, and a disposition
on the part of the visitors to be some
where else than where the ball was
knocked. After that encouraging ses
sion the home boys found It hard to
locate the home plate, and by applying
strong arm tactics at third and taking
advantage of errors the visitors slowly
crawled up. Tonasket never managed
to get a lead, but tied the score two
or three times during the game. While
there were a number of remarkable
errors, and some sidesplitting bone
head plays, yet it was not such a bad
game for the first of the season as the
final score was 7 to 6. with Oroville
holding the one run margin.
II!<• II SCHOOL DANCE.
The members of the High School
Athletic association will give a dance
this Friday evening in the Orpheum
theatre. The fact that this social event
is to take place on this date has been
previously announced but in case any
one may have forgotten it is just as
well to prod memory. We urge every
lover of the pastime to lend a helping
hand to a most worthy organization
while at the same time taking in some
of the good time that will be in circu
lation. The proceeds of the dance will
be applied to meeting outstanding ob
ligations of the association. The teach
ers and high school girls will supply
the supper, which is equivolent to
stating that that feature will be up to
the highest standard. If you do not
dance, invest in a ticket any how, and
contribute toward a cause that is de
serving of support.
PRESBYTERIAN ( TII'RCH.
Preaching morning and evening. In
the morning at 11 o’clock the Odd Fel
lows will he the guests of the church.
This will ho their anniversary service.
Evening service at 8 o'clock.
Sunday school at 10 o'clock. Be sure
to come to Sunday school early and
take part in the opening exercises. We
extend to you a hearty invitation to
come and enjoy all our services.
A. W. BON’D, Pastor.
T. 1,. Irwin, the gentleman who lias
purchased the Vic Champneys place,
is evidently of the kind of metal that
is needed to build up Okanogan coun
ty. He is not afraid of losing a dollar
and is willing to aid in improving the
country even before he has breathed
enough of the atmosphere to become a
resident. Me voluntarily staled that he
was ready and willing to contribute
SIOOO toward the construction of a
wagon road up the Similkameen river
from Oroville to Nighthawk. This is
the kind of a man that gives the writer
courage to feel that he will live long
enough to see some long needed im
plements made in tills part of the
country. And now is the time to pull
fer : rou<i that should have been built
20 years ago.
MAIL CENSORED.
Recently much comment has been
created here by letters arriving from
Canadian post offices with a strip
pasted around one end and the word
"censored” printed thereon. All let
ters and packages that cross the bor
der are opened by Canadian officials,
their contents inspected, and then re
sealed with this evidence of their
having been tampered with. This cen
sorship is an outgrowth of the war,
and has been found necessary by the
discovery of plots hatched on this side
for the purpose of destroying property
in Canada. It is an order in council,
and when an order is promulgated in
Canada that order is not treated as a
dead letter. Recent exposures go to
show that enemies of England in the
United States have formed plans to
make the wars across the seas felt in
our neighboring British possessions,
and in time of war eternal vigilcnce is
necessary for the safety of life and
property. Our neighbors do not pro
pose that the mails shall be used to
foster and make possible nefar
ious practices if it can be prevented
by rigorous investigation of every
thing crossing the line through the
postal service.
DOING GOOD WORK.
E. C. Leedy, general immigration
agent of the Great Northern railroad
with headquarters at St. Paul, and
Fred W. Graham, of Seattle, western
immigration agent of the same road,
were in Orovllle Tuesday on a lour of
the valley in the interest of the de
partment of which they are such effi
cient units and shining lights. Mr.
Graham is a frequent visitor in Oro
ville called here in the line of duty.
Mr. Leedy, owing to his living at a
distance from the coast, does not
reach this section of the country often
but he has been here on several occas
ions and is no stranger to the people
of Oroville and along the branch. Both
officials are delightful gentlemen to
meet, and in their line of work have
ro superiors. They have taken a great
deal of interest in the country under
the local irrigation system, and are
concentrating their efforts toward at
tracting home seekers this way, efforts
that are bound to bear fruit. They are
keen, alert, wide awake business men,
and make a strong pair to draw to in
any kind of a game.
PUBLICITY PROPOSITION.
A special meeting of the Commercial
club was held in the library building
Monday afternoon, that was attended
by a number of business men, for the
purpose of hearing a statement from
W. P. Romans, of the Spokane Cham
ber of Commerce, who is on a tour of
the country for the purpose of inter
esting various communities in an ex
tended and comprehensive advertising
scheme that is backed by a large num
ber of Commercial clubs and organized
bodies in Eastern Washington and
northern Idaho. It is the cheapest and
best proposition to reach the class of
people desired as immigrants that has
ever been presented to the local com
mercial club and there is no doubt but
that Orovllle will be represented. In
fact it is an opportunity that our peo
ple cannot afford to pass up, consider
ing the need of new people to fill up
and develop the lands under the new
irrigation project.
SOME FISH.
The fish exhibit in the show window
of -"The Palm” Sunday was enough to
arouse the piscatorial ambition of ev
ery lover of the gentle art of angling
in the town. The display consisted of
three monster black bass, one weigh
ing six and three-quarters pounds and
the other two four and three quarter
pounds each. They were caught in
Osoyoos lake, and W. J. Galvalamore,
a mail clerk on the Spokane run, was
the lucky fisherman. Furthermore, they
were caught by casts from the shore.
It was the finest catch of black bass
ever taken from the lake and has cre
ated a run on fishing tackle. During
the balance of the season it will be a
wise fish that is able to discriminate
between natural and artificial bait, for
fisherman galore will be out after the
big fellows.
The contract for the new school
house at Tonasket has been let to T.
K. Young & Co., of Seattle for the sum
of $19,840. It Is very much on the plan
of 'he Oroville high 'school, and will
be a very handsome building when
completed.
Representatives of the Oroville
Commercial Club held a conference
with Tonasket citizens last week on
the proposition of holding a joint two
days’ celebration upon the occasion
i 1 the opening of the irrigation sys
tem, which the contractors figure will
be about the first of June. From every
indication the two towns will join in
carrying out the proposed program.
DELEGATES SELECTED.
The attendance at the republican
caucus, held in the town hall Satur
day evening for the purpose of select
ing 16 delegates to attend the repub
lican county convention, to be held at
Brewster, Saturday April 29, was not
large, but those present were enthu
siastic, feeling that the outlook for
party success this year was very
b’lght S. C. Mitchell was chosen as
chairman and J. F. Samson as secre
tary of the meeting. The following
delegates and alternates were selected
to attend the county convention, and
most of the delegates have expressed
their intention to be present:
Delegates—Frank M. Dallam, S. C.
Mitchell, J. F. Samson, Chas. P. Sigrist
Tbos. Colier, Chas. Powell, A. P. Mur
ray, Dr. C. P. House, A. J. Wickersham
Dr. D. H. Lewis, Geo. Bartell, T. S.
Stanton, L. L. Work, J. Frlls, J. A.
Biackler and M. H. Mahoney.
Alternates—Dr. A. S. Beale, Chas. T.
Peterson, E. A. McMahan, Ed. Kling
man, Herbert Gregg, Mrs, Chas. F.
Sigrist, Mrs. J .A. Biackler, W. Leon
ard Davis, S. B. Starrett, Jr.. P. M.
Snider, L. F. Pourtales, Frank Bartell,
Jr., John Collins, 8. R, Case, Geo. J.
Parker, 1. L. Blair.
FAREWELL i’ARTY,
Last Thursday Mrs. Chas. Powell,
Jr., gave a farewell 5 o’clock tea to her
sister, Mrs. H. W. Evans, who depart
ed for her home at Seattle Tuesday,
after having visited with relatives in
Oroville for several weeks. The follow
ing is a list of the invited guests:
Mesdames Lewis, Ketchum, Efner,
Major, Hare, Maske, Sanderson, Kling
man, A. J. Blackler, R. G. Evans, Hed
ger, Herkmer, Voiigny, W. J. Hoskyn,
C. W. Smith, Schultz, S. C. Mitchell,
Beale, Armstrong. Grathwohl, C. A.
Powell, Mills, Peterson, Getsey, Jack
son, Oliver, Willis, H. B. Stanton, Sex
son, B. A. McMahan, Fannie McMahan,
Misses Gardiner, Studley, Tilley,
Grathwohl, Hamisch and Desmond.
M. E. CHURCH SERVICES.
Sunday school at 10 a. m. Preaching
service at 11 a. m. Subject of sermon,
"Shifting Point of Views." Epworth
League at 7 p. m. Preaching service at
S p. m. Subject of sermon, "Paradoxal
Service Impossible.”
Everybody welcome: everybody in
vited; everybody come. The homelike
church and the stranger’s friend.
W. W. STRITE, Pastor.
EPISCOPAL SERVICES.
Services for next Sunday morning
prayer and sermon at 11 o’clock; Sun
day school at 12. Bishop Page will vis
it Oroville for confirmation on May
7th at 11 a. m.
REV. G. H. SEVERANCE, Vicar,
Phil Schllef, who by his work has
demonstrated that he is one of the
most competent road builders among
the many in the county who have su
pervision of making roads, has his
hands full of road work Just now.
Some three roads in his district are
to be improved at once and he is now
out on the job and will remain there
for some time.
Milo Hicks is having the building
just north of the old Bank of Oroville
brick, on the south side of the track,
revamped, resoled and generally re
newed. When the carpenters and
painters get through with the Job and
Mr. Hicks gets in the biulding will
look as though it had been entirely
reconstructed, and that is just about
what has been done to it.
In a news letter from Pullman State
College reaching this office we see
that Wm. F. Cole of Oroville, is out for
track and is playing baseball. He is
also a member of the glee club and is
a freshman in agriculture. He belongs
to the Lambda Chi Alpha fraternity.
Perley A. Washburn, of Chesaw, is
one of the candidates for track. Karl
Henry Kepp, of Loomis, is out for
track and also took part In the Gym
show, Harriett E. Tones and Ella L.
Lenton, of Nighthawk, have taken part
in Gym shows.
Since the death of the Mother Super
ior who had charge of the local hos
pital, that institution has been prac
tically closed. An effort is being made
to secure some capable and experienc
ed person to take charge of and con
duct the institution, and those inter
ested are hopeful of success. There is
not a better point In the state for a
hospital, and while it was in operation
it was almost constantly filled, patients
coming here from long distances. In
charge of the right person it would
pay handsomely.
The Deborah society will meet at
the home of Mrs. Samuel Blackler,
Wednesday, May 3, at 2 o’clock p. ra.
All women interested in the work of
the Presbyterian church are invited to
attend. The attendance of the members
is especially requested as the annual
election of officers takes place at that
time.
FATAL AUTO ACCIDENT.
The auto has claimed another victim
in this county, yet from all the evi
dence obtainable in this instance the
the accident was not due to fast driv
ing, nor carlessness on the part of
the unfortunate driver. The fatality
occurred on the hill east of town,
some time during Monday evening.
Early Tuesday morning S. O. Rice,
the Mount Hull saw mill man, discov
ered an overturned Ford car at the
road side on a stretch of steep grade
known as the Sneve hill, some four
and a half miles this side of Molson,
and was shocked to And the driver
dead under the vehicle. He at once
spread the alarm among neighbors,
and Deputy Sheriff Ed. Burden was
notified at Molson, who took charge
of the remains. Upon examination the
dead man proved to be David J.
Thamas, the 19 year old son of Mr.
and Mrs. John Thomas, living on a
farm between Molson and Chesaw.
Of course no one knows exactly
how the accident happened, but from
all signs It appears that young Thomas
was driving up the steep pitch when
his engine gave out, the brakes failed
to hold and the cur started back down
the hill. The rear wheels ran into the
bank, capsizing the car, pinning the
driver underneath.
The county authorities were notified
at Okanogan and Sheriff Stark, Dep
uty Sheriff Ward, Prosecuting Attor
ney Johnson and Acting Coroner Dr.
Carmichael hastened to the scene.
Upon viewing the body it was decided
that an inquest was not necessary,
and the remains were turned over to
the stricken family.
The deceased has worked in a gar
age at Okanogan for some time. Mon
day afternoon about 4 o’clock he start
ed for his home near Molson in his
Ford car for the purpose of assisting
his father in the spring crop work,
expecting to return to Okanogan when
that work was finished. The accident
happened at a place that is considered
to be dangerous for auto travel on the
long grade from the valley to the sum
mit, in all probability early in the
evening, for he should have reached
that point not later than 9 o’clock, un
less he was delayed in Oroville. He is
said to have been an exceptionally
steady, Industrious young man, well
liked by all who knew him. The fun
eral took place Thursday of this week.
The band will give an open air con
cert In the band stand In the library
building yard Sunday afternoon. May
7, at 4 o’clock.
Janies Wilson dropped dead at
Riverside a weik ago last Saturday,
but the news of his death did not reach
this place until late last week. The
deceased was a painter by trade and
was one of the old timers in the north
part of the county, having plied his
trade at Loomis, Oroville, Tonasket,
Riverside and other places in the
county. He was of a genial disposition
and made friends everywhere he went,
who sincerely regret his sudden and
untimely death.
At a special meeting of the Are de
partment Wednesday night four com
panies were organized with a strong
membership. C. C. Hedger was elected
assistant chief of the department.
Fred Hart was chosen captain of Hose
Company No. 1; Frank Bartell, jr.,
captain of Hose Company No. 2; L. P.
Pourtales captain of the hook and
ladder; J. P. Samson captain of the
chemical company. Arrangements were
made for a hose race between the two
companies on June 7. Orders were is
sued for regular practice of all the
companies.
A report reaches this office that
Guy Harpham, formerly a resident of
this part of the county, has gone in
sane, and is now an inmate of the
asylum at Medical Lake. Mr. Har
pham left here last fall for Wallace,
Idaho, where he was working in a
mine. The story goes that he was tak
en ill, removed to Spokane and in
sanity developed. The young man was
always sound in mind and body while
living here, and his friends trust that
his present condition is the result of
sickness, and that he will soon recover
under treatment.
A committee from Tonasket com
posed of Frank Putnam, Geo. Bailey,
J. W. Graham and a fourth gentleman
whose name could not be learned, was
in town Tuesday afternoon conferring
with the committee from the Commer
cial Club appointed for the purpose of
arranging for a celebration at the
opening of the irrigation system. The
plans were not wholly completed but
an understanding was reached so that
events in one place would not be du
plicated in the other. One of the fea
tures of the Tonasket celebration will
probably be a barbacue, while at Oro
ville, a trip on the lake may be the
chief event so as to show visitors from
a distance just what delightful sur
roundings make Oroville one of the
most attractive spots In Eastern
Washington.
fI.M PER TSAR
