V '
' ' v 1 - ' ' ' ' i i ' ' i t
VOLUME XIV.
SELMER. MfNAIRY COUNTY. TENN., FRIDAY, APR) i 28, 1916.
NUMBER. 42
i
i
, The United States troops will
remain in Mexico regardless of
what the Mexicans want. : The
latest reports indicate there will
be no serious objection by Car
ranzaists. "'-Vv, .V-
The latest reports from Berlin
indicate a probable acceptance of
Wilson's demand that submarines
will observe neutral rights to the
extent of not attacking ships oth
er than those of the enemy, and
then give non-combatants a fair
chance to escape before sinking
vessel.
' The Independent is not fond of
' poetry, and does not believe its
readers are. Songsmiths of the
spring variety are welcomed here
only in our absence. But one of
our native McNairians who thinks
he has the divine spark in him,
insists on sending us some stuff
he calls poetry, and asks that we
give it a trial- If unsatisfactory,
your money back, no questions
asked, etc. He writes under the
classic cognomen of v Buck Snort,
because he says that the people
he is working for faiight fire him
if they knew he was writing po
etry, and that the young ladies
might laugh at his verses. We
respect our young friend's bash
ful modesty, and will give him a
trial. It remainsfor our readers
to say say what the sentence shall
be. He wants it known that all
the persons mentioned in his so
called poetry are imaginary, and
that if any name happens to be
that of a fellowjTennesseean, the
said fellow need not feel offended
unless the cap fita him; in .which
oase he will tlo well to sit tight,
keep still and forget it. ,
Buq snort ;
makes peace with his neighbor
My cow got into my neighbor's corn
- One day,
And some of the stalks was badly torn;
But, say!
Ilia bars was down and his fence the
, same, " ,
And the pore ole critter was not to
blame. .,-
My neighbor cum and wanted a quarrel;
Says I:
"Your'e a heap too good and I'm
too moral;
Let's try
Jo settle this trouble without any fuss;
The lawyers is huntiu' for both of us.
"I spect you're more'n about half right,
.. . I do;
. I want no suit and I want no fight
. ; With you.
Do you think my cow has the hollow
. horn?
Come over and look at my newground
: " corn." ' v "'
He cum, and the anger in his eyes,
' -'.'. :- 1 " It died;
And I fgure most of our lawsuits rise
, v .: , From pride
If you foller the lead of old Buck
Snort, - ' .... ;
You'll setth your differences out of
court.
Hickory Holler Tenn.
Easter Services in Selmer
Outside the large attendance at the
Suuday schools where appropriate ex
ercises were had, the leading event of
the day was the sermon of Rev. E. R.
Overby, of Jackson, as the opening of
commencement exercises of the High
School. The class of . "sweet girl
graduates" was composed of the fol
lowing young ladies of Selmer:
Misses Grace Wood, Effie King, An
nie Rea Bell, Lnla Alexander, Mary
Ruth Amnions and Mary Anderson,
who sat in the front pew, the faculty
seated behind. The church was filled
wiih lovely flowers, and the special
music was of. a high order, with Miss
Dowling at the piano and Mrs. Ear!
Stiles accompanied with violin.
. The sermon was pronounced one of
the strongest ever heard 'in Selmer.
His subject was "Life, and life more
abundant." His sub-heads being the
physical, intellectual and spiritual life,
Uis reasoning and imagery witn nu
merous recital of quotations held the
large audience for over an hour with
marked attention. The learned di
vine complimented the audience In
leaving his own pulpit for the first
time ih three years, at the request of
Rev. Carnell to deliver the commence
ment sermon of tha Selmer High
School. x
i NEWxYORK
.i
LETTER
I wish
your , leaders could have
been with me and my wife when we
walked along Rjverside Drive the
other Sunday morning, to see Grant's
tomb. The ice broken in huge cakes,
lay in the Hudson river far below;
the tall cliffs on the other side glist
ened in the morning sun, -and there
were throngs of people along the
Drive, walking in the bracing air;
nearly all well dressed and looking
very prosperous. At 12lst street, on
a noble eminence two hundred and fif
ty above the river, near upper Broad
way, stands the round dome of the
tomb.. A subdued light fell from pur
ple windows on various angles of the
structure, and we walked in and ap
proached the circular wall, waist high,
inside, which forms an immense well,
some fifty, feet wide and perhaps fif
teen feet deep, on the floor which :
rerts the sarcophagi in which repose
the mortal remains of Ulysses S Grant i
and his wife, Julia Dent Grant. She
rests at his right side, and each sar
cophagus, hewn out of Wisconsin por
phyry of a dull reddish color and
highly polished, is about five feet
high, four feet wide and fourteen
feet long. IheBe tombs of solid stone
weigh 14.000 pounds each, and are
highly polished. Their top edges are
about six inches apart, and they are
perhaps two feet apart at the bottom,
where they rest on a thick platform
of black granite from Maine. Wreaths
of sago palm tied with ribbon lie
upon each tomb, hiding the inscribed
names. There are steps going down
to the floor of the well at the rear,
but no one is ever allowed to go down
there to the ' sarcophagi except the
attendants of the building, and rela
tives of the Grant family. The state
of New York maintains watchmen
there day and night, and small indeed
is the chance of some miscreant to
desecrate this tomb. The bodies lie
in leaden coffins sealed under the ex
tremely heavy stone lids, and the light
of day will not, for many generations,
perhaps, look again upon the mortal
dust of America's greatest general. .
Here, then, sleeps the man upon
whose shoulders rested the tragedy of
Shiloh; who beseiged Vicksburg, and
who attained the pinnacle of military
glory in the closing days of the civil
war as lieutenant general of the union
army; who was twice president of the
United States, and whose later trip
around the world, whether in Europe,
Asia or elsewhere, was one long tour
of triumph; whose habit of keeping a
cigar, generally unlighted, in bis
mouth during all his wakinghours,
brought on the cancer of the throat
rora which he died in July, 1885,
after tasting the bitterness of defeat
or a third nomination for the presi
dency, and the humiliation of being
mixed up in a commercial speculation
which swept away all his fortune,
which, however, he won back, while
still a sick man, by selling the memoirs
dictated to his secretary from his bed
of pain. Thousands of organizations,
corporations, city councils and other
bodies passed resolutions of respect,
and some of these, together with tat
tered battle flags of his old commands.
are exhibited in side rooms near the
great tomb chamber; beautifully ex-
and handsomely engrossed.
In one of them were copied a verse of
that splendid poem of Theodore O'Ha
ra, which, I have heard my father re
peat so often, with eloquent express
ion, and it seemed so much in place,
in that shadowy house of the honored
dead:
"On fame's eternal camping ground
Ibeir silent tents are spread
And Glory guards, with solemn round
The bivouac of the dead."
i
Yes, America encircles with glory
her great military heroes. To them
have been reared the finest Btatues at
the nation's capital, as if to say to
the world: "We know how to defend
ourselves, and we never forget our
defenders!" Ulysses Grant was an
obscure tanner (like my grandfather
Perkins) at Galena, Illinois, before
the civil war, and but for that war,
his ashes would not now repose in
tomb costing three-quarter of a mil
lion dollars overlooking the Hudson
in the world's greatest city. But God
orbid that there should now t be in
our midst any obscure trademan wait
ing to be lifted into the limelight by
any war of ours! I write this while
distant rumblings of the awful saturn
alia of death in Europe are echoed
here, and the president of the United
States himself is telling the people
that we cannot tell what hour . may
thrust upon us the dire task of de-
ending our firesides against an inva
der. Then we may indeed pray that
a Grant or Lee may be raised up in
our defense. "
Leaving Grant's tomb, we walked
down a few blocks farther, to see the
Cathedral of St. John the Divine, per
haps the largest and costliest church
in America. Located at Cathedral
arkway and Morningside Heights,
this great pile of masonry has been
building since 1890, and is not one
third finished, although three millions
of dollars have been expended on it.
he main building, or auditorium, is
three hundred feet long, and standing
under the main dome we look upward
to a ceiling 160 feet above tho floor.
he groined arches over the main au
ditorium and altar meet in the air 120
feet up; and support the roof. The
building, when all complete, will be
600 feet long, and .cover nearly ten
acres of ground. I counted nine pil
lars supporting the altar dome, sixty
feet high and five feet thick. Sever
al attempts were made to turn these
columns out of single pieces of stone,
but they aWays broke; so the columns
are in two pieces. Everything is on
a grand and imposing scale, well befit
ting America's greatest cathedral.
They are building it for ages; but so
did the builders of the cathedral of
Louvain and Rheims think: but where
are they now? ;
My wife and I went in and heard
the services there, that beautiful Sun- J
day morning. ' The Bishop of Rhode- j
sland was preaching from a . pulpit
raised high at one side, and his text
was largely upon the lesson of the
present war. He thought mankind
would arise ennobled and more enlight
ened from it. His voice rang through
the vast edifice, whose accoustic prop
erties are practically perfect. Plain
wooden chairs were placed in rows on
the mosaic floor, and they were not all
filled. But that was an aristocratic
audience, and a rfch one! In the
contribution plates were high piles of
greenbacks, but the envelopes with
checks in them, perhaps for thousands,
were even more impressive. , ;
The service was very "high church,"
very much like that of the Roman
Catholic churches, although this is
Episcopalian. The congregation were
continually rising and reseating them
selves; and there was a white-robed
choir of boys, with voices much like
those of women, and the immense
echo-organ, built on both sides of the
church but playing simultaneously in
perfect accord. ; The golden pipes rose
in tiers away np there under the lower
arches, perhaps sixty feet above the
floor, and the tones floated all over
like ; clouds of harmonic ' perfume,
There was something far away and
majestic about it all; and during a
praer, the chiming of sweet bells
away up somewhere skyward in the
immense upper regions of the cathed
ral was inspiring the most impress
ive thing my wife had ever heard, she
said. The assistant curates in their
long, purple robes chanted things that
sounded like Latin, and there was more
singing, both by the white-robed boys
and by men in purple robes, and then
the boys in 'their snowy vestment,
looking very much like my boyish con
ception of angels, wended their way
out, behind a priest who carried
golden crucifix, and the service was
over. This was the recessional, for
which service Rudyard Kipling wrote
his wonderful poem with its refrain;
"Lest we forget; lest we forget." It
wa3 all very impressive and grand.
and touched every sense but the heart;
but, as I said to my wife on going out,
in the words of Reginald Heber
"Dearer to God are the prayers of the
poor.
Lindsay S. Perkin8.
, Announcement.
A special low rate of $1.15 to Jack
son, Tenn., and return will be made
by the Mobile & Ohio Railroad on May
5, 1916. Take advantage of this
special occasion and visit your friends.
See local agent for particulars.
Uses and Abuses of Fertilizers
By Prof. R. 4. H, De Loach, Director of Georgia Experiment Station.
, 5. FERTILIZERS AND HORTICULTURE.
The Fifth. of a Series of 8ix Articles. - i
The fruit and veetablgrowers are always leaders In the use of plant
foods for their crops. This Is especially true of the vegetable growers. ' What
they wish la rapid growth In their produce, so that they will get the vege
tables on the market In the shortest possible time from the time of planting.
This Is the secret of success with vegetables, and the only way to meet such
conditions is to apply fertilizers in large quantities.' In the next paper we
shall tell about the "home" garden" and how to fertilize it In the present
paper we are to tell more particularly about fruit trees and other horticultural
plants. ''
The relation of apple growing to fertilisers has never been very carefully
worked out. We know that the use of fertilizes with fruit-trees, and
especially appTes, pays, but we have not yet worked out the best formulae
for the various kinds of trees, nor the amounts which pay best Brlsbin Bays,
in his book on "Trees and Tree Planting," that in planting young trees large
quantities of manure should be used in preparing the place for planting.
These manures should be rich in plant food elements if the trees are ex
pected to make rapid growth. The best way to increase the plant food In
manures is to add to the-manures the mineral elements in various forms,
and mix with leaf mold and manures. Brlsbin also recommends that weeds
should not be allowed to grow around the apple trees, as they will take up
the plant food which is put down for young trees.
The best method of producing fruit is to keep the field or orchard clean by
growing other crops which require constant attention and cultivation. Most
farmers and horticulturists fertilize the crops that grow in the orchard, end
In this way save the expense of fertilizing the fruit trees again. In many
Instances legumes are grown as a cover crop, and, incidentally, to furnish
nitrogen. The orchard cannot be cultivated too deeply, or injury will result
It needs to be cultivated shallow, and manures or fertilizers applied in
reasonable quantities. While it is necessary- to put fertilizers near the trunk
of the tree, yet the roots scatter pretty well over an orchard, and the plant
food that happens to fall further away from the trunk is not lost
A large crop of apples or peaches takes from the soil much plant food,
such as nitrogen, potash and phosphoric acid, and unless this is supplied from
time to time, the trees will prove less fruitful and finally bear very little
fruit, and what they do bear will be of poor quality. - The argument that old
trees in pastures bear good Iruit is not sound, because conditions prevail in
many isolated places this way that cannot be duplicated in the orchard.
Many times it is the natural leaf mold, woods earth, droppings from animals,
and other materials carrying available plant food that make the1 fruit on
such trees. Besides, such fruit is rarely ever as excellent and delicious as
that grown in a well-kept orchard. Fruit, like all other kinds of field and
garden crops, must be forced more or less to measure up to a high standard.
To force the fruit, and at the same time keep the land ferUle, we must apply
to the soil as much fertilizer as the crop takes from it. '
Fruit trees demand in their growth a fertilizer rather rich in potash and
phosphoric acid, but not very rich in nitrogen. vIt was found that the citrus
trees In California at the Riverside Experiment Station grew better fruit and
did better every way with a complete fertilizer than with any single plant
food element, or any incomplete combination. It was also found that the
acid requirements of these trees were more completely supplied with sul
phate of ammonia than from any other nitrogen source.
Many of the experiment Btations have secured good results from fertilizing
orchards, but none quite so good as the Ohio station. P. H. Ballou, in charge
of work with apples, says: .$ ,s
"To sum up the results in Increased fruit production from the use of
chemical fertilizers on the very thin orchard land in southeastern Ohio, tak
ing Into consideration all our different plots at the various places covering
CO miles of country, we have the following; - - - -
Average per acre, per year fertilized, 100 barrels. 1 '
Average per acre, per year unfertilized, 44 barrels.
Gain per acre, per year, from fertilization, 66 barrels. n
Cost of gain per barrel, per year, 17.8 cents.
This is the strongest endorsement for the ues of commercial fertilizers in
orchards that we have yet seen, and shows how it is possible to increase tha
incomes from an orchard by the wise use of the proper kinds of fertilizers.
Prof. Maurice A. Blake of the New Jersey Experiment Station recommends
an application of 450 pounds of fertilizer per acre with peaches. Prof. Starnes
of the Georgia Experiment Station tried many formulas at the Georgia Station
several years ago on peaches, and found that in every case the fertilizers
paid. v
4 000 yds Loom-End Calico at 4 c a yd
COME AND GET YOUR SHARE
Wc have a nice line of men's, ladies' and
children's dress slippers and tennis slippers
Overalls at the same old price. as long
as they last . V ;- : ' ' ' ' '' x'
T. L. ANDERSON
U. C. V. REUNION
BIRMINGHAM, ALA.,
MAY 16th, 17th and 18th
MOBILE & OHIO RAILROAD
VERY LOW RATE FROM ALL POINTS. THROUGH TOURIST
SLEEPER AND COACHES WITHOUT CHANGE OF CARS
via Tupelo and tru Frisco
Train No. I, May 15 arriving Birmingham at
5:20 a. m. I6th. For fall particulars, ask
your local agent G. c. ALLEN, D. P. A.
Wc have a com
plete line of men's
and boy sp low
shoes from $1.50 up
& CO., Selmer
Women's Sprins Goat Suits
at Clearance Prices
$15.00 and ?lo00 SUITS REDUCED TO
$9.85
Dozens of New Wash
ready today at .
Men's and Women's New
READINESS
Women's Low Shoes at.
Men'a Nettleton at
Men'g King Quality at
Hundreds of yards bfftew Wash Goods Ready
TODAY AT ''. . 10c to 25c the yd
MENS' CLOTHING;
Please let us say once, that it is better for the men of
Corinth to buy their CLOTHING AT GISH'S, for
they can safely buy all-wool, hand-tailored Suits here
today as low as ever in our history. We have kept up
the standard with no increase in cost.
Chas
Corinth, jX1ss.
) fEFs tasl fSs?5 fisrci ffSfl
m egg gag egg rag
JACK KERBY.
KERBY & INGRAM
TUBULAR WELL DRILLERS
-AND
: Farm Water Svstems
ELECTRIC LIGHT PUNTS FOR PRIVATE HOMES
m
- Fairbanks-Morse and Southern
Gasoline and Goal Oil Engines
WE GIVE YOU
PHONE 26, BETHEL
Barred Plymouth Rock Cockerels
and Pullets for Sale
Setting of 15 Eggs for only 50c
Purest Breed .
! EMMET GRAHAM. Selmer
Read The Independent for the
news of the county.
Skirts, white and colored,
. , $1.00 to $1.50
Low Shoes of Easter. Fashion
,.$3.50 and $4.00
$6.00
$4.00
feil ffEnl f foal ffswl f rsittl f rsrol
Kg Bgsniaai feasi eag rea q
EARL INGRAM.
DEALERS IN-
A SQUARE DEAi
SPRINGS, TENNESSEE
Robbing Eases Pain
Rubbing sends the liniment
tingling through th flesh fcnd
quickly slop pain. Demand
liniment that you can rub with.
The heft rubbing liniment is
T AMfP
mmEU
Good for the Ailments of
Horses, Mules, Cattle, Etc.
Qood for your own
Pains, Rheumatism, Sprains,
Cuts, Burns, Etc
25o.50c.i. ' AttHDeaW?
We b87e all kinds of legal blsaki
Gish
niBC
Ei
