II
aflnttiofon
VOL. 4J
FARMINGTON, ST. FRANCOIS COUNTY, MISSOURI, FRIDAY, APRIL 28, 1916.
' ' ' ' H
NO IS
V
Our Reorganizatian Sale
comes at just the right time
Now, when all the family needs shoes, we
are offering special inducements in reliable
foot wear of all kinds.
Hundreds of pairs to choose from at unusu
al attractive prices.
Among them you will find shoes for every
member of the family and for every occasion.
All the new shoe styles will be seen at
our store.
I WE DO SHOE REPAIRING WE SELL HOSIERY
Karsch's,
THE PLACE TO BUY
GOOD SHOES
IMPROVED STREET OILER
City Buys Machine That Will Save 25
to 50 Per Cent in Oiling Streets
The city has purchased an Austin
Air-Compresser Oiling Machine for
oiling the streets, which arrived last
Friday. It has a tank capacity of
450 gallons and cost in the neighbor
hood of $550 including freight. This
is one of the most approved and sat
isfactory street and road oilers manu
portionality to cover the expense of
oiling, as heretofore. Thirty thou
sand gallons of oil were used on the
streets last year, but with the Austin
machine it is estimated that tho 20,000
will cover the same surface with bet
ter results that the 80,000 gallons
did. Owing to the advanced .nice of
100.
factured, and is said to save from 25 oil, however, the 20,000 cost approx
to 50 per cent wastage of oil over the imately the same that the 30,000 did
old sprinkler heretofore used on our last year, in the neighborhood of $1,-
streets. However much or little oil
there may be in the tank of the Aus
tin, the air compresser insures a reg
ular and even flow of oil, without
vaste from jolting or passing over
uneven surfaces.
Two carloads, or 20,000 gallons of
Assistant Secretary
Visits Farmington
Hon. Carl S. Vrooman, Assistant
Secretary of Agriculture of Washing
ton, D. D., spent Sunday afternoon
and Monday in Farmington. He came
here from Kansas City, where he had
spoken before the bankers of that
city. He was not scheduled for Mon
day so he took that opportunity to
visit his cousin, Mrs. W. A. Gardner,
of this city. Since taking his present
position with the Department, Mr.
Vrooman has rendered a disttoct ser
vice to agricultural interests of this
country by encouraging the employ
ment of practical men in the Depart
ment. Many of these men have been
secured directly from the farm.
Mr. Vrooman spoke before the
State leaders in St. Louis last Novem
ber, also before the Business Men's
League of that city, and both speeches
were widely published. Mr. Vrooman
is regarded in the Department at
Washington as an enthusiast for the
County Agent work, and while here
spent considerable time with our lo
cal conuty agent. Mr. Vrooman left
Monday evening for Little Rock, Ark.,
where he was to speak Tuesday be
fore the Bankers Association at that
place.
Mr. Vrooman, we understand, was
well pleased with what he saw here,
and took occasion to pay our Farm
Agent, Mr. France, a very neat com
pliment, saying that he clearly un
derstood his business.
WEDDING BELLS
Farmington Girl Weds Pros
perous Chicago Busi
ness Man
But that is cheaper and much
more .satisfactory than spi inkling
with water would be, for it saves wear
and tear and presenves the streets.
The streets are getting unpleasant
ly dusty and should be oiled as soon
as poshible, however it is necessary
il, have been ordered and will soon that the weather should be warm and
:c here. The oil has been purchased seasonable to get the best results,
through an agreement of our enter- This condition it is to be hoped will
prising business men, and the proper- prevail by -the tini" the oil arrives,
tjr owners or residents along the and that the work of oiling the street
streets to be oiled will be assessed pro- will be begun at once.
Philharmonic
Concert Success
The universal comment upon the
concert given by the Philharmonic
Society is that it was quite the mu
sical event of the season, and the de
partment presented Monday evening
Droves the character and depth of
their work.
This success was due in no small
degree to the indefatigable efforts of
its talented conductor, Mr. Laurence
Smith, whose unusual ability and
Thorough knowledge of orchestration
and interpretation of the higher
classics easily places him commander
of all the better musical activities of
Farmington. His work on. the Xylo
phone, as in past seasons, easily plac
es him among the foremost of Con
cert Chautauqua performers, and in
the "Mocking Bird Fantasia", his
wonderful speed, skill and accuracy
was shown by the perfect whirlwind
of rapid runs and thrills proving so
pleasing to the audience that he was
obliged to respond to a rousing en
core. A very popular and unusual number
was the tuba solo, Mr. Delos Johns
showing perfect command of his dif
ficult instrument, and maintaining the
same pure-sweet, round tones in the
rapid passages characteristic of all
his work, and winning for him an en
core. Whenever Harry Smith appears he
is always a delight to the audience,
In his reading of "Bill Smith" he
played upon the most vivid imagina
tides of the audience which won for
;iim an encore.
The Male Quartette, composed of
Messrs. Sutherland, Johns, Gentges
and Bailey ' was not only a genuine
surprise, but a most welcome one,
first number abounding in ever vary
ing harmonies was so well received
that they responded with an amus
ing encore number fully as enjoyable.
In fhe "Melting of Molly" Miss Co
ver was in her best form, and in the
delineation of her characters she
revealed such depths of feeling, light
ened by such flashes of exquisite hu
mor, that she held the interest of her
audience as is possible only to so fin
shed a reader. Miss Cover studied
several years in the Morse School of
Expression in St. Louis, and is per
haps the most widely known reader
-of this section of the country, receiv
ing recognition wherever she has an-
peared. That she has no superior was
fully demonstrated upon this occasion, i
Owing to injuries to her hand, Mrs. 1
Beard, the regular pianisre, was un-J
able to appear. However, her part
was ably and delightfully taken by I
Mrs. Shaw, one of the first violins,
whose brilliant piano work is most
Highly appreciated and welcome.
It was predicted that the overture
'.William Tell' was quite beyond the
ability of any musical orga"izatHn
t the town or county to produce; but
bene critics must now "take off their
hats" to ihc Philharmonic for th -
they rendered this exquisite selection.
In this number, which did not yet tax
my member to the utmost of his abil
ity, much deserved praise is due Mr.
Smith for his skillful interpretation
and the manner in which he drew from
his players every necessary effort and
effect.
The plans of the Philharmonic are
to present to Farmington music heard
only in the great cities and by aug
mented orchestras. Their endeavor
is to give, not in any sense what is
known as a "show", but real concerts
given to please those who are capa
ble or appreciating the best there is
in music. That they have not failed
in their expectations, and that there
is a very real and growing demand
for music of the better order, was ev
idenced in this concert by the undivid
ed attention and the enthusiastic ap
plause accorded them.
Miss Pearl O'Sullivati, daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. William O'Sullivati of
Karmington, and Mr. Edward True
man Freeman, a prominent young bus
iness man of Chicago, were married
at -8 o'clock Saturday evening, April
22, 1910, at the home of the bride's
sister, Mrs. Lillian B. Gillespie, in
St. Louis. Rev. R. A. Montgomery,
pastor of Tyler Place Presbyterian
Church, officiated at the interesting
ceremony.
On account of the recent illness of
k : 1 1 ; . i. i j.-..
simple home affair, only the imme
diate members of the family being
present. The bride and groom left
on the train at midnight for Chicago,
Illuminating
Ore Prospects
A I. C. Watson and B. H. Marbury
have been in St. Louis and Kansas
City all this week, and a telephone
communication trom them, just re
ceived, states that they have closed
a deal for the erection on their prop
erty of a mill, in the Miami, Okla.,
mineral field, with three shafts, such
work to cost $150,000 dollars.
The comparative ease with which
they have been able to launch this min
ing proposition, which is the largest
that has ever been consummated in
that field, is the strongest possible
recommendation of the soundness of
the venture. Later reports from
some of the foremost mining engi
neers of the entire country, who have
recently given the field a thorough
examination, indicate that this is the
richest mining field that has been un
covered for some time. The general
activity manifested everywhere indi
cates that a cargo of wealth is goon
to land for several of our Farming
ton boys.
Clean-Up Crusade
To Begin Monday
SHALL WE BOND
FOR BETTER ROADS?
Why Should the People Now Living be
Compelled to Continue to Bear the
Handicap of Poor Roads?
We find that there is considerable : indebtedness of 200,000 or $250,000
sentiment in favor of bonding St. ' and provide for a sinking fund to pay
b rancois county for road purposes, and off the bonds would hardly be more
,c 'V' " preseniea xo our peo- than the 3d cents we are now paying.
pie in the proper way, such a propo
sition would carry by a decisive ma
jority. The people are coming to ap
preciate more and more the advantag
es and economy of good roads, and
The argument used by some people
in opposing the bonding plan, that we
would be mortgaging posterity with
a debt in which it could have no voice,
is extremely weak. A sinking fund
The Mayor and Board of Aldermen
have designated next Monday, Tues
day and Wednesday, May 1 to 3, as
Clean-Up days for the city of Farm
ington. Everybody is requested to
appoint himself or herself a committee
of one to see that Farmington is put
in a cleaner condition than it has ev
er been found before. ,
The city wagons will start hauling
early Tuesday morning and for this
reason it is urged that not later than
next Monday our citizens have their
refuse which is to be hauled away,
packed in receptacles and put near
the street or alley in places conven
ient In hn ' . 1 1 ! i 'I l.tr t !,,. .it.. i,gwnr,B
Tt u v, .,.m.v.l,l iU..l 11 1 U l,'nCi
vacant lots and in
placed in piles and b
houses be cleaned and"
aie wiiiingiy oeing taxeu lor road would be created by the road tax,
piuirciuciii nu cunsu-uciion. mis and in two or three years we would
county will this year pay a road tax j be paying off the bonds, lessening the
of 35 cents on the hundred dollar as- debt each year. What little of the
sensed valuation, and the money de-1 debt might be left in ten or twelve
rived from this source is being wisely : years would be negligible, while we
and judiciously expended in improv-1 would be handing along with it a gys
lng the roads of the county and put- tern of good roads worth every dollar
ting in macadam road as far as the : put into them; and posterity would
money will go. Not only are the peo- j thank us for our good sense and the
pie willingly paying this road tax, gift we pass on to it. And then, too,
but m numbers of the road districts we, as well as posterity, would have
they are raising money by private the benefit of the roads instead of
subscriptions to improve certain wasting our substance in trying to
stretches of roads, turning the get good roads, as we are doing now.
amounts into the treasury and re- j Whoever heard one generation com
ceiving an appropriation from the plaining of the good things it inherit
County Court of an equal amount; ed from its ancestors? Rather, it
to be added to the subscription ' praises them and erects monuments
to be applied to the particular to them for their public spiritedness,
work for which the subscriptions i enterprise and patriotism,
were raised. This has greatly help-1 One very essential thing should be
ed road improvement in the coun- provided for, however, in the event
ty, but while we have managed to con- that a proposition to bond the county
struct many miles of creditable road j carried, and that is that the roads
m the past ten or twelve years by , should be constructed under the di
this system, the process has been slow rection of a competent non-partisan
and expensive. board of commissioners, whose duty
Why not do this work on a larce and it would be tn rnntrnrt Ihn mrl tr
cheaper scale, saving both money and expert highway engineers and road
oy raising a sutncient iund builders, and to see that the ulatis and
ons tor the construction of
were faithfully and con-
ly complied with. This du
that all brush on 'u"0, y raisi"K sufficient fund builders, an.
other phecs be ' , 10UBh bonain-' tllp county to have all specification
urned- that out I , PiilK'iPal highways graded, mac- the roads 1
,nd- iiilnfM-! m,an"ze'l and put In Rood condition ' scientiously
,u P C:e.! ! at once? The payment 61 the bonds tv should n,
l.w T. I 1 t-i. i; t
iyyr tr uiainuu, unu UliU nine ami i ,
other disinfectant be used freely in I 1 "" T"T a pcriou oi ty Lourt, WHISK lias enough business
places which require disinfecting P3-8' 'T",Uil1 road tox woul(1 not of otnei' kimla to lool: uftcr- hut hy
The city has been repairing the f'n.$rol?seii, to J appreciable ex- a board of the very best and most
streets in many places and next week ! at ""' we "ou,d- avf, lm eomPetent men that can be selected-
will begin the repairing of other high- "Ifitw Li. j W'lr r6n ??id i' tegrity and pub-
waya. Thereafter the oil will be or- bene,ltaT,Ihu! Wlth irood public high- he spirit, who are willing to give their
dered shipped and placed, on our I wayS- V"deL.0Ur present system wa best efforts to the work for a nominal
str.ts. It is th hnnn nA:h nt , r?. W' W cents o,i the hundred , cooipensatior? St-e provision for
Council that the town will be thor-! . "ara a3Se? valuation and build- such a board of commissioners should.
Does This Road
Need Repairing ?
We certainly believe in rock roads
and will vote for a bond issue for
same. But we think the honorable
County Court could use some of the
money they are going to expend for
a mile of rock road for the benefit of
a few men, (as we understand it) ev
en if they do and have put the rock
on the road after the conuty gets it
out and crushes it.
It seems that if they would go out
on the Turley Mill road to the county
line, they would find some places,
hills with bench rock in them and
ditches washed on each side 5 or 6
feet deep and just room for a wagon
to get by, and a mud hole that has
been there four years, without a lick
of work being done on it, and promis
ed every year to put in a concrete cul
vert. It seems that if they would spend
some of the money to remedy these
places, they would serve the belt in
terests of more people and especially
the business men of Farmington, who
are losing trade every day on account
of such conditions in the road
TAXPAYER.
'f- a
oughly cleaned before the oil arrives.
Cinders
The city can use cinders on its
streets in numerous places, provided
the cinders are kept thoroughly deM
oi glass, nans, tin, and other sharp i r
substances. Therefore, cinders will be j lUDllC LlDrarV tO
hauled free of eharc-e. nrovidnd thov ! w
are in such places where they can be
reached and in such condition that
they can be used on the streets.
ing our roads by piece-meal a very be incorporated in and made a part of
expensive plan and not getting as. any proposition to be submitted' to
good results as we might. The tax the voters for the bonding of the coun-
rate to pay the interest on a bonded ty.
Frightful Death
Open Next Week
Because of tho inability of the Pub
lic Library Board to finance the Li
brary under the original plan, the As
sociation met last week and re-organ-
Joseph Perry, a good and prominent is provided that six trustees shall be
MRS. EDWARD T. FREEMAN.
WE HAVE JUST RE
CEIVED A NICE
LINE OF
Summer
Lap Robes
LUEOERS'
SADDLERY STORE
where they were entertained for a
few days by friends of Mr. Freeman,
leaving there on Wednesday for New
York. They will take steamer to
morrow (the 29th) for London, Eng
land, where they will make their
home, and where Mr. Freeman goes
as a representative of one of the
large manufacturing concerns of this
country. Mr. Freeman's former
home was Portland, Oregon, where
his mother, Mrs. J. Freeman, now
lives.
The bride is one of Farmington's
most beautiful as well as talented
and finely cultivated soprano voice,
and it is her intention to pursue her
vocal training and studies abroad. ,.
Her many friends in Farmington
and St. Louis wish them bon voyage
and much happiness, in which The
Times joins.
Couldn't Be Suited
"No, I can't marry you," she said
to the shipping clerk after he had pro
posed. "You see, you are too extra
vagant.
"Me extravagant?" shouted the
shipping clerk. "Me? Why, on the
contrary, dearest one, I'm very eco
nomical. I have to be.''
"Then, more than ever I feel." she
said, "that I cannot be your wife."
"You can't be my wife because I'm
economical," he gasped, bewildered by
her shifts and changes.
"No, oh dear, no," she answered
"But because you have to be." Bos
ton Globe.
citizen living near Hazel Run, about
twelve miles north of Farmington,
met with a terrible death Tuesday
morning by being blown to atoms by
the explosion oi a fifty pounde keg
filled with dynamite. Deceased was
road overseer of his district, and he
had gone out that morning for the
announced purpose of blowing some
stumps from a county road, for
which work he had secured the dyna
mite. Further details of his death are
not known, as no one else was near
the scene at the time of the explo
sion. However, it is supposed that
in attempting to open the keg of dy
namite it exploded, blowing the body
with such force that only parts of the
lower limbs and one finger had been
recovered at last accounts.
Deceased was about 45 years old,
anu leaves a wite and several chil
dren. He was well thought of by all
who knew him. and his familv have
the heartfelt sympathy of the entire
community in their deep offliction,
Mr. Perry had but recently sold his
farm, intending to buy another in the
same locality, but had failed to do
so, and it is said that ho had also at
tempted to buy back his old home
place, in which he had also failed.
These facts were given as a possible
reason for suicide, but there seems to
be nothing more on which to base
such theory, and those who knew him
best say that he was one of the last
men they would have chosen to com
mit suicide. Indications are that de
ceased had no more desire for death
than had any, or all, of his large cir
cle oi inends.
elected and shall constitute a Board of
Managers for the Library. The trus
tees elected last week will hold office
until the annual meeting in January.
The by-laws provide that the offic
ers of the Library Association shall
be chosen by the trustees from among
their number.
The Board of Trustees met on
Thursday, April 20, and organized by
electing the following officers: Pres
ident, Mrs. E. G. Scrutchfield; 1st
Vice President, Prof. W. L. Johns;
2nd Vice President, Mrs. C. O. Nel
son; Secretary, Clyde Morsey; Treas.,
Barney Pelty; Supervisor of Library,
Mrs. M. P. Cayce.
Immediately after the organization
of this Board, the following commit
tees were appointed:
Committee in charee of receiving
books: Mrs. M. P. Cayce, Miss Beeson,
High Track Team
to Ste. Genevieve
The track team of Farmington High
School will go to Ste. Genevieve on
Saturday, April 29, to compete in a
tri-city meet with Ste. Genevieve and
Perryville High Schools.
On account of failure to reach an
agreement with Bonne Terre, Desloge
and Flat River High Schools on either
of two important matters, Farming
ton High will not enter the St. Fran
cois County Meet at Bonne Terre on
Saturday next.
The rules governing the St. Fran
cois County Meet do not now, nor nev
er have prohibited a man from enter
ing the meet for the fifth time. Haile
of Farmington has competed the four
previous years, and in the absence of
any rule to the contrary seems entit
led to enter this year. The schools
named above protested, and Farm
ington offered to keep out Haile pro
vided that Farmington's last year's
team be awarded six silver medals
won by them in the 1915 meet, but
not yet allowed because of a ruling
made by the referee of the meet. The
substance of the ruling was that be
cause of the measuring instruments
A Small Number
The past week has not been nearly
up to the average in bringing forth
new or renewal subscriptions, for
which lack we are inclined to, in some
measure at least, blame the weather
conditions, which have been generally
dark and depressing. We know that
the constant imnrniimuinfc V.,f I-....-,.
been made in the appearance of The
limes snouid add to the general de
mard for the paper.
Th new. subscribers the past wee
ire: Walter McFarland of Elvins,
T. MeOaniel of Esther, Edward Grif
fard of Flat River, Tom Wells of
armington Route 6, Monroe Kerla
'on ' f Bonne Terre Route 1, Thos--enewing
are; R. .Lee Mitchell, Pan
ima, C. Z., J: Tf. Martin, Windso
Colo., J. N. Ward of Desloge, R. J
Clay of LeadHMed.
Mrs. O. W. Bleeck. Prof. Johns. In tin- I'tlfi moot tint, mpptitirr tkn
Committee en finance: Mr. Pelty, Mr. requirements of the A. A. U. Rules
McKumey, Mr. A. S. Davis. Com- the records were not official; henoo no
mittee on buildings and grounds: medals for breaking records could be
Prof. Johns, MrB. J. B. Smith, Mr. J. ! awarded. Flat River has agreed that
W. McCarthy. Publicity committee: the medals should be awarded but
Mrs. C. 0. Nelson, Mrs. Harry Den- Desloge and Bonne Terre refuse to
man, Mr. A. W. Bradshaw. oonsent. Farmington feels that jus-
The Board voted unanimously to tice to her boys would require that
move the Library from the High one of the above propositions should
School and open the same to the pub- have been accepted by the protesting
lie the first of the week. The Libra- schools.
ry room in the new Tetley building
has been redecorated and arrange
ments have been made to have the li
brary moved at once.
It has not yet been determined
Recital
how many days during the week the By the Faculty of the Sdhubert School
nitely decided that the reading room ti.ii,- i j A i.
will be open on several evenings ' The ttomens Lyrfc Club-
throughout each week.
The ladies and the business men of Mr- Barroll, Violin; Miss Mary Jane
town have been quite liberal in sub- Henderson, Accompaniste.
scribing funds for the purpose of sup- Marehe Pontificate Lemmens Mrs.
porting the Library in its new quar- Forsyth.
ters. The expense of maintaining the My Lady Chloe Clough-Leighter--
..-a ucguu aim muse women s Lvric Ulub.
vho have made Subscrintions will as
gist the management to a great ex
tent if they will forward their sub
scriptions by mail to Mr. Pelty, who
is treasurer of the Association.
Not Unusual
The cold weather of the past few
ays which made overcoats "uite de-i'-able.
is not unusual at this seison
f the year. In 1 "19 It snowed on
lay 1st, and in 1911. while it did not
ow it vs cold e ri'gh to niV
Wei) Of Mnv rile c m win, 1
Largo .Handel Mr. Porter.
"The Lord is My Light" Allitsen
Mrs. Nelson.
Barcarolle from "Tales of Hoffman"
Offenbach Lyric Club.
Easter Offertoire founded on the an
cient Easter Carol, "O Filii. O Fil
de" Clement Loreb Mrs. Forsyth.
Snow Elgar Lyric Club. Violins,
Mr. Porter and Mr. Barroll.
The Joy of Spring -Wioilman Mrs.
Nelson.
Mazurl-a Wioniawski Mr. Porter,
t S owfl cs Carve'.
' Catechist Hdley Lyric
