THE BARRE DAILY TIME
VOL. XX NO. 38.
BAHltK, VERMONT, Fill DAY, AVUlh 28, 1910.
FK ICE, ONE CENT.
BIG SHIP
SUNK BY
AMINE
British Battleship Russell
Has Been Lost, According
to Admission by British
Admiralty To-day Ad
miral . Freemantle Was
Among the Rescued
676 SEAMEN SAVED
AND 25 OFFICERS
which drove the Germans out of a lec
tion of trenches whom they had (rained
a footing with the help of gas and an
artillery curtain of fire.
The communication close with an ac
count of the aeroplane activity, includ
ing a description of a fight between a
German "two eater" and a British "one
neater" resulting In the death of both
Cicrman aviators and the destruction of
the machine which fell from a height of
14,000 feet.
Official Announcement Also
Made That a German Sub
marine Has Been Sunk off
the East Coast of England
There Is a Decided Lull
in Fighting on the Verdun
Front
London, April 28. The British battle
ship Russell has been sunk by a mine.
Admiral Freemantle, the captain of the
Russell, and 24 officers and 676 men were
saved. About 124 men of the ship are
missing. The Kusseu was sunn w iu
Mediterranean sea.
The Russell was 400 feet long and of
14.000 tons displacement. She is the llth
British battleship to be lost during the
war. In addition, about 35 other British
warships of various classes have been de
stroyed.
German Submarine Sunk.
London, April 28. A German subma
rine was sunk off the east coast yester
day, it was announced officially to-day,
One officer and 17 men of the submarine
surrendered and were made prisoners.
FOUR BRITISH CAV
ALRY SQUADRONS
ANNIHILATED
Turkish Official Report Declares That
British Were Severely Beaten in"
Battle Near Suez Canal on
April 23.
Berlin, via wireless, April 28. Turkish
troops annihilated four British cavalry
squadrons of about 800 men in a battle
on April 23 near Quatia, about 25 mile
east of the Suez canal, according to offi
cial report of the Turkish war depart
nient dated April 27.
UNWONTED "QUIET"
ON WHOLE FRONT
REPORTS PARIS
Intermittent Artillery Fire About Avo-
court, Some Trench Fighting in Reg-
neville Section and Several
Aerial Combats.
Paris, April 28. No important events
were reported during the night along the
whole front. There has been intermit
tent artillery fire about Avocourt ami
Home trench fighting in the section of
llegneville west of Pont-A-Mousson. Sev
eral aerial combats were reported, in the
course of which a Fokkerplane was driv
en to the earth in the enemy's lines in
the region of Xesles-Chaulnes.
BRITISH GUARD
VESSEL SUNG
BY GERMANS
Berlin Admiralty Announces Result of
of Work by Naval Patrol Forces
They Brought in a Fishing
Steamer.
Berlin, via London. April 28. The. ad
miralty announced to-day that on Wed
liesday night German naval patrol forces
dcstioycd a large British guard vessel on
the Doggerbank and brought in a hsli
ing steamer as a prize.
MORE RUSSIANS ARRIVE.
FIRST DEGREE
MURDER THEORY
IN BETHEL CASE
Attorney General Barber Is Collecting
, Evidence on That Hypothesis Elmer
Washburn' Skull Was Fractured
Over Considerable Extent Wash
burn Married Peter La
Rock's Sister.
Bethel, April 28. Attorney General H.
u. uariKT ot Urattleboro and Sheriff J
H. Kiniry of Windsor conducted an in
vestigation to-day of the death of El
mer Washburn, w ho was found uncon
scioua near the railroad track here Wed
nesday and who died of his injuries at
the Randolph sanatorium that night
large number of persona were called be,'
iore me two omciais at tne iicthel inn
and their testimony wag taken. A Ian;
mass of evidence is being collected, and
Attorney General Barber stated that
the prosecution was working on the
theory that first degree murder was com
nut tea.
Peter LaRock, aged 21, who was ar
rested W'ednesday afternoon, is still in
the indsor county jail pending the pre
liminary investigation. Washburn mar
ried La Rock's sister but they have not
been living together for some time and
her suit for divorce is still pending in
county court. Mrs. Washburn is said
to be residing in Bellows Falls at the
present time, It is said that part of
the investigation has to do with these
family relations. W ashburn was 50 years
ol age.
An autopsy was performed on Wash
burn's body at Randolph yesterday by
Drs. B. II. Stone and C. F. Whitney of
tne state laboratory, and the examina
tion by the physicians served to indi
cate that Washburn had been the victim
of a most brutal attack. In addition to
injuries previously reported the skull
was fractured lor a considerable dis
tance.
FUNERAL OF SLAIN MAN HELD.
of
And Was Soon Followed by Arrest
Otis Williams of Waits River.
Waits River, April 28. The funeral of
Joseph 1'elch, whose body with a bullet
wound in the head was found in his
sugar house .Sunday morning, was held
from the home of his parents Wednes
day afternoon at 1 o'clock. Many friends
of the young man attended.
There lias been great excitement all
through the vicinity ever since the find
ing of the body. An inquest was held
by Assistant Judge Henry K. Hayward
of Tunbridge, and an investigation was
onducted . by J. H. Kiniry, sheriff of
Windsor county, and by Howard Mor
gan, a Boston detective, who was sent
here by Attorney General Barber. A
the result of tiie investigation the au
thorities decided to'arrest Otis Williams,
the hired man on the Felch farm, and the
arrest was made Wednesday night by
Sheriff L. l , Welch on a warrant sworn
out by State's Attorney F. S. Williams
of Bradford. Otis W illiams was taken
to the Orange county jail at Chelsea.
RUNAWAY CAR KILLS WOMAN.
GERARD
VISITS
KAISER
American Ambassador at
Berlin Is at the German
Army Headquarters, Hav
ing Left the German Cap
ital Last Night, Accompa
nied by the Embassy Secretary
SUBMARINE ISSUE
UNDER DISCUSSION
Negotiations Between the
United States and Ger
many Are Rapidly Coming
to a Head, and Germany's
Reply to American Note
Is Expected Soon
Berlin, April 27, via London, April 28.
American Ambassador Gerard and Jo
seph 0. Grew, the embassy secretary, left
Berlin to-night for army headquarters
for a conference with the emperor.
Vice-Admiral Von Capelle, who suc
ceeded Admiral Von Tirpitx last month
AUTO RIDE STORY
IN $10,000 SUIT IS
DENIED BY UTLEY
Defendant in Alienation Action Testified
That Mrs. Phelps Asked Him to Take
Her on Ridj and They Were
Gone Ten Minutes.
The story of the automobile ride on a
summer evening back in 1912, as related
by Mrs. Phelps, when she testified that
L'tley and she stayed in the machine in
a field with light extinguished, for two
hours and that he attempted to use force
to make her alight frc.-n the car, was
bra tided as an absolute falsehood by the
defendant, who took the RWnd this fore
noon in the trial of the $10,000 alienation
suit of Frank Phelps against Charles L't
ley, which is being tried in Washington
county court, l'tley followed a largo j
number of witnesses for tho defense,
most of whom were called to Identify oc
casions when they were in the company
of the defendant.time which the plain
tiff alleges the defendant was keeping
appointments with Mrs. Phelps in the
woods.
Utley said he now resides in Hard-
wick, having removed to that village
from Cabot. He said that he had known
the plaintiff for 20 or more years but
that his acquaintance with Mrs. Phelps
dated only from the time he purchased
the Cabot mill. When he first moved to
Cabot the Phelps family resided half
mile from the mill house. J.ater they
moved nearer and at present are residing
on a lann. rue relations between tne
l'tley and Phelps families were very cor
dial, according to the witness, until
about three years aiio. Several times
the witness had invited the Phelps fara
lly to go on automobile rules, invitations
which had been accepted
Referring to the evening fn the fall of
1012 the witness said he had taken Mrs,
l'tley to Cabot village about 7 o'clock in
tho machine. She went into a millinery
store and it was while he was itting
the machine waiting for her to make
purchases that Mrs. Phelps, came along
ana suggested that he take her lor
Bpin in the machin. The suggestion was
favorably received and they were arisen
from the village about 10 minutes, going
long the South Walden road and back-
Mrs. Phelps last Tuesday testified that
the aMon depot road was the course
taken and that they had been absent for
nearly three hours.
Mr. Utley said that, upon their return
i waited for his wife and that they ar
rived home before 9 o'clock. He char
acterized the story as told by Mrs. Phelps
READY FOR
CONFERENCE
THREE BANKS GIVEN
THE SINKING FUND
AT 4.20 INTEREST
General Obregon Is in Jua
rez, Waiting for Scott
andFunston
REACHED CITY
THIS MORNING
He and the American Offi
cers Will Discuss Mili
tary Situation
as minister of the navy, left Berlin on
Wednesday to confer with Emperor Wil- Us an absolute falsehood and denied cm
liam at the German army headquarters, phatically all of the accompanying de
tans, as related,
Washington, D. C, April 28. Dis- i eriey Nibin, an employe of Mr. Itley
' I ...... .. 1 l . . : i' l .1 ... t. x i
.. . - V .. iL. r .mL1Blw 1 CClilt VWIB. tKMIilt'U UIV UW 11HU
r worked in the null sawing on Nov. 2:
to-day irom tee wernn toreign omce in- and (hat tlle defendant, whom he con
dicate that Germany will attempt to tinually referred to as "Charlie," was in
meet the American demands for imme- about the mill all that day until well
n t L l- it.. f i . n
diate abandonment of its present prac- f Y'T " T ,
' is one of the dates which the plaintiff
w i" uouuit wowai. avers was the occasion of a meeting be-
of the proposals was not disclosed, tween the defendant and Mrs. Phelps.
Count Von Bernstorff has not been ad- I-. S. Robie of HardwUk followed Sabin
I 1 e : .
..,. wWK... , -jn. v ,v.f. ""'i i" K""'K wuh me ueieiuiani, un
Twenty More People Seriously Hurt in
Cincinnati.
Cincinnati, April 28. A double truck
Vine-Burnct Btreet car, Crowded with
men, women ana children, became un
manageable as it was approaching Mo
Millan street here yesterday, ran wild on
a down grade for six blocks, jumped the
track anil crashed into a telegraph pole,
causing the death ot one woman and in
jury of 38 other persons.
Miss Came Stilger, an attendant at
the Cincinnati general hospital, was be
headed. ' She was to have been a brides
maid last night at the wedding of Miss
Carrie Geisler, who was with her on the
car. Miss Geisler was seriously in
jured.
Physicians at the various hospitals to
which the injured were taken announced
hat probably twenty of the injured were
a serious condition.
AT 89 DROPPED DEAD.
Third Contingent Has Been Landed at
Marseilles.
Paris. April 28. A Havas dispatch
from Marseilles reports the arrival of a
furthiT contingent of Kussmn troops.
1 he number waa not given.
IRISH GIVEJI PRAISE.
For Driving Germans Out of Trenches On
Western War Front.
London. April 28. The British com
munication issued last night is the long
est ever -nt out from British bnaJquar
tem. To the extent of nearly five hun
dred words it describe th general in
crea of activity on the British front.
ber many observers hare be-n predict
ing that th .ermns were about to
Hart an attack as determined as that
agninst Verdun.
The new Irfrmia activity fc sbowa
it-eif at nnre thaa amre of point.
wiVh th principal f.jrhting apparently
around lUHu'i anfLor.
Th lnh rf itier.t jrt i-il www-1
tK for bravery la
Frank P. Flanagan Died on Piazza at St.
Albans.
St. Albans, April 28. Frank B. Flana
gan, aged e years, dropped dead last
ight at 7 o clock while on the piazza at
the home of his daughter, Mrs. Charles
E. Preston. He had been ill for the
past few months, hut his health of late
had been better. Heart disease was the
cause of death. Mr. Flanagan was a res
ident of Burlington 20 years, coming
to live here after the death o his son.
Fred J. Flanagan, with whom he resided
in Burlingtn. He is survived by two
daughters, Mrs. Preston and Mrs. H. K.
Randall of Sedalia, Mo., and one son,
Charles F. Flanagan of St, Regis Falls,
X. Y. Burial will le in Burlington.
ly made to his government have been ac
cepted.
The visit of Ambassador Gerard to
Emperor William's headquarters was the
topic of broad interest in official and
diplomatic circles to-day. The German
embassy officials believed that the em
peror invited Ambassador Gerard to con
fer with him for the purpose of elabor
ating, for the benefit of President Wil
son, on the emperor's position and the
disposition of the German government
some hav which he contemplated pur
chasing. M. !. Morse of Hardwick, one
of the defendant's attorneys, said that
he carried Mr. It lev in a machine from
Hardwick to CSabot the morning of Sept
28 or 20, according to hiOtest recollec
tion. He was not positive which date
was riht hut was of the opinion that it
was the 2!)th.
Glenn Hatch pf Cabot was called to
the stand and told of being a frequent
caller at the Phelps home. He never
heard anv quarrel ensue between Mr. and
Mrs. Phelps w hen he was present.
Mr. Oirrier of Hardwick Yesterday
ana icr a runner explanation or certain testified to having gone one Sundav to
phases of the forthcoming German reply the Cabot mill and was engaged from 10
to the American note. It would be un
usual for the emperor to conduct negO'
tiations with a diplomatic representative
of a foreign government.
SWEDISH STEAMER
TAKEN CAPTIVE
BY GERMANS
Warships Returning from the Bombard
ment of British Coast Picked Up
Vessel and Took It to
Hamburg.
London, April in. l lie nwedish steam
er J. J. Dickson, bound for Amsterdam,
was captured and taken to Hamburg by
derman warships returning from tli
DoniDarciment ot tne isritish coast on
Tuesday.
o clock in the torenoon until 3 o'clock
working on an engine, being assisted by
the defendant. The plaintiff "had pre
viously introduced evvdenee to show that
on that particular Sunday Mr. l'tley and
.Mrs. .1 help met m the woods between
10 o'clock and 2 o'clock.
Another witness told of keeping a
diary and a page. was introduced as evi
dence, an entry Iwing made to show that
he saw the witness on a day when it is
claimed by the plaintiff he was in an
other place. The fact that the page was
written in two colored mkg r(1 to ft se.
vere cross examination but the witness
explained that was caused by the inkwell
running dry and water was added to fill
it up. He insisted all of the matter was
written at the same time.
El Paao, Texas, April 28. General AI-
varo Obregon, minister of war in the
Mexican de facto government, is in Juar-
rez to-day awaiting a conference with
Major-General Scott and General Fun
ston on the military question involved " consider it good policy to discrlmi-
in the American punitive expedition into
Citv Council Bv Vote of 4 to 3 Last
'
Night Made Disposal of Sura Now
Amounting to $62,000.
Tho sinking fund, like all Gaul, was
divided in three parts at a special meet-
ng of the city council last night, tho
shears being applied by a four-sevenths
vote which authorizes the treasurer to
distribute the monev May 1 as follows:
People's National bank, $20,000; Granite
havings bank, IfJU.iiiHi; yuarry oavwga
hank. S22.00O. Each bank is to pay un
annual interest rate of 4.20 for a period
of three years, as against tho 4.70 per
cent offered by the liarre Savings- Bank
& Trust Co. for the entire fund. Not
w ithout reiM-tition of much of the agita
tion that has marked proceedings center
ing around the sinking fund in the past
mouth wa the deal consummated and
then in the face of rather determined
opposition from at least three members
of the council.
Following Alderman Glysson s motion
of the night previous to require a secur
ity bond for any city money in excess oi
$.'10,000 on deposit, a conference was held
yesterday with the ollicials of the Barre
Savines bank. Representatives of the
council w?re informed that the bank did
AUTO ROLLED
ON BOTH MEN
Fire Chief Gladding and
Game Warden C'arles
Keith Inju ,
FORMER RT .IVED
A J "v FRACTURE
:. ,o
c- -
He Was Taken to Hospital
and Keith Was Removed
to His Home
nate among its depositors by giving add
ed security for one deposit and with
holding the same added security from
another. The bank, however, was ready
to stand by its offer of April 11, it is
stated. But the motion adopted at the
special session Wednesday night acted
as an estoppel on further negotiations
with the Barre Savings bank, and tend-
AT CITY MEETING I ers were then receive' irom t,iree other
uaiiita jij nil; uiij.
A meeting of the finance committee
after the city meeting last night grew
into a councillor session, in the course ot
which the 4.20 bids from the three banks
were considered. It was on the motion
of Alderman Glysson, seconded by Al
derman Shurtleff, that the vote to pvide
the fund was carried. On a show of
Mexico. General Obregon reached Jua
rcz on a special train this morning.
FORMER SALARIES
WERE DECIDED ON
Evening Drawing School to Be Continued
and Blanket Bonding Policy Was
Favored by the Voters
of Barre.
Four and twenty lejral voters were in
the opera house last night at 7:30 o'clock I hands, Mayor Gordon, Alderman Glysson,
when the city clerk called the annual Alderman Shurtleff and Alderman Bruce
city meeting to order. Twenty minutes supported tne motion, Aiderra.cn tieaiy,
later, when a motion to adjourn had been Reynolds and Rossi voting in the nega-
made and quickly carried, there were llye- .
fewer than fortv frprmien ma kin. ahift "ith Alderman Rossi as the spokes
to leave the house. Reckon for yourself man Mt"S8r8- Ro8t,i Reynolds and Healy
the percentage present of those who were
privileged to exercise the franchise when
the board of civil authority closed iti
books just before the March elections.
There were some over 2,001). Except when
J. IVCallaghan chose to descant on the
folly of providing a blanket bond for
city office holders who are getting no the fKeu would, onlv'red
wore man a part ox wieir saiarv, none
ot the eight articles called by the clerk
in the warning was made the subject
of debate
F. G. Howland was elected chairman
and in less time than it took to draft tie
. : a: i... i i
took the stand that the city could de
posit its fund with the bank offering 4.70
and in the face of that bank's refusal to
furnish security for the balance in ex
cess of $30,000, the city could take care
of the balance by furnishing a bond ot
its own. It was reasoned that the cost
of the bond for the $32,000 representing
uce the rate
from 4.76 to 4.56. But the majority did
not see tit to favor the proposal and the
action, as recorded above, was finally
taken.
The history of the sinking fund de
posit in 1016 lias been in the making
warning, action nau been taken on every since the hitter tfava of Afnrrh. Sun
article. Jt Waan I the Smallest audience 1 nnaodlv it, un liatvuul nf "irhon the
in years by any means, but it was a council, on the niuht of Anvil 11. voted to
. .1 . ' t . - a: .,,. I .
l,u" i.vpiuai ui var. cny meetings uia open oners and to accept a 4.76 tender it
have been held in "off" years, "off" years examination of the bids should discJose
designating those few occasions in the such an offer. Two banks evaded the
past decade w hen there were no school- question asked when bids were solicited
houses to build. one bank refused to take the fund at 4.76
Article one having been disposed of bv and the fourth letter contained an offer
tho election of Mr. Howland, as moder- of 4.76 for the entire fund. Dissatisfae-
ator, Edwin Keast's motion to pay ths I tion with the action taken at the meet
lty clerk and treasurer the salary re- mg precipitated prolonged debates at
RUTLAND STRIKERS ARRESTED.
No J. J. Dickson appears in the avail
able shipping records.
LEFT IN OPEN BOAT.
CONFERENCES AT CONCORD, N. H.
Quarry Section Met Last Night and Cut
ters' Section Will Meet To-night.
Concord, N. 1L, April 2S. Committees
from the manufacturers and the quarry
men's union m't at the Pho-nix hotel lat
niirht to dieus the proposed new scale
of waires which is to m into eff.-ct Mav
I. A meeting of the cutters committee
and a delegation from the manufactur
ers will be held to night for the same
purpose. The old scale of which
has bren effettive for mine years will ex
pire Aionuav, ana it is nriweq mat some
atisfactory arrangement will be reached
by that day.
Crew of British Steamship Were Picked
Up by American Liner,
lyondon, April 2S. The British steam
ship Industry has been sunk bv a sub
marine which left the crew in open hoaU
10" miles from land. 1 lie crew were
picked up by the American liner Fin
land.
The Industry, according to an officii.1
statement, was proceeding to a I'nitcd
State port and was unarmed.
Mrs. .Tames B. Murray and Mrs. Frank
Mitchell of Manchester, X. H., are guests
for a few davs at the home of their
brother, .lames Brown of Cliff street.
Mrs. Winnie I utts has returned .to
the city from West Corinth, where site
was called by the sudden death of her
father, Chester Kerer.
McCALL'S VETO SUSTAINED.
Massachusetts House Voted 159 to 6t, to
Back Up Executive.
Piton, April 2". The H.i.e of R-p-
resontatite to-day l'.'l to t,
sustain tkern'- MKail rn .f ii,c
bill whkh wotiVl hue r"Tittte-l wi
nKn f tb BoU buitdin; ! f'r
hr w i t -n of a Ub-fTt !e f.-r ti e !..
counter attack Sunday a.eeUrj.
HEAVY FALL OF SNOW IN
S0UIHERN NEW ENGLAND
IVston. April 2H. Snow fell over
eatern Massachusetts and It!nle
Island to-day. the latest date of
any appreciable fall in more than
a quarter of a century that the
official records hue lccn kept.
From early morning through t'w
forenoon large tfakos iricd on
an easterly wind, and it wa esti
mated at th weather bureau that
nearly t'iree inches fell, conti.hr
able of it remaining on t! ground
in the iil;rl"n d.-tris. ti
interfered jth ha-lvill gs rnrs
t hriigM'iit the wctmn and -,rl
gnr, hedul-d f'r th c-lring
day in th nw Fai-tern league
wej p"t.
For Alleged Intimidation of Howe Scale
Co.'s Works.
Rutland, April 28. Three of the Ital
mn laborers who struck Wednesday at
the plant of the Howe Scale works when
140 men walked out after demanding
more pay and union recognition, were ar
rested yesterday afternoon by the sher
iff's department for intimidating work
men by threatening their lives if thev
did not stop work. Xo strikes occurred ill
any other .departments but because of
the loss of their helpers who were in
eluded in the striking contingent, the
moulders to the number of over 100 were
obliged to suspend w-ork and the foundry
was closed, l ne company has a number
of large orders underway and unless the
matter is adjusted soon will be seriously
inconvenienced as the machine shops can
not run more than two or three davs
without the moulders' co-operation.
lesterday was pav dav at the plant
and the arrests occurred in the afternoon
when the strikers assetiibl,! for their
envelope, fcvery available deput sher
iff, a corps of special policemen. State's
Attorney C. V. 1'oiilin. Commissioner of
IVlice Safety tieorge K. Chalmers and
Mayor H. U Stafford were at the plant
at this time, and it "as then that the
arrests occurred. All approaches to the
works were picketed earlv in the morn
ing and the Italians succeeded in getting
several men who hat started for woik
to turn ba, k.
There is no prospect of an immediate
settlement.
ceived in the past took care of the sec
ond article. On the motion of W. T.
'ulder, under article 3, the aldcrmanic,
uuitors and assessors are to receive the
same compensation given them in the
ast.
The motion of William McDonald of
Addison street, under article four, to
ontinuc the free evening drawing school
was followed in the tilth article by a
motion, made by Mr. McDonald to as
sess a special tax of four cents for the
maintenance of the school, Commissioner
R. Hutchinson of the school board
aving explained that a four-cent tax
ill be necessary to continue along the
ines followed in the past.
Under article six, Daniel J, Sullivan
moved that the citv
or advertising in the Barre Times dur
ing the municipal year of 1!1.. lhe mo
ion was seconded by Kdwm Keast and
carried unanimously.
When the seventh article was. read, "to
see if the city will vote to take out a
blanket bond to cover all the citv offi
cials required to give a bond," J. T. Cal-
laghan arose to impure whether a blank
et bond would lie of any benefit to the
city. The moderator asked if the mayor
was present in the audience and after
waiting a few moments for a response.
President E. C. Glvsson of the olderman
subsequent meetings and it was not until
last night that the council groped its
way out of the tnistv atmosphere of
I rhetoric that had hedged about the sink
ing fund for a month and more.
BIG CROWD AT OPENING.
Maccabees Bazaar at Howland Hall Has
Much of Interest.
The opening of the annual fair given
by Harmon hive, Xo. 1, Woman's Bene
fit Association of the Maccabees occurred
in Howland hall last night. The hall
was decorat'ed for the occasion and a
pleasing array of booths at one end of
. ... ' " I thfl hsli ndded to the festivs sniienruncf.
pay a bill of 137.53 . r,lm
An ice cream booth in charge of Mrs.
Elizabeth Carroll, Mrs. Delia Fulsoni,
Mrs. May Cave, stands in front of the
loor. Xext comes a domestic booth in
charge of Mrs. Nancy Avery, Mrs. Ida
Gregware, Mrs. Edith Lamb, Mrs. Jessie
Bradbury and Mrs. Lima Curtis. An
elalHjratelv decorated apron booth con
ducted bv Mrs. Lillian Kearney, Mrs.
Eva Perkins and Mrs. Mae Campbell
comes next. A fancy work booth prc-
ided over by Mrs. Ethel Tobin, Mrs,
Edith Richardson, Mrs. Florence Martin
I I M.wA. i..,i. :.,
ic board was asked to answer the ques-1 , , ,, , . '
, . . , . ji l i charge of Mrs. Annie Gerard, Mrs. lannic
tion. Mr. G vsson stated that the bomu . ,, , , , ,, ....
l.evin, .Hiss .aiiee ijcckicv anu .urs. .Mil
dred Duncan follow in the order given.
The fish pond is conducted by Mrs. Jessie
Lund and Mrs. Isabella Walker, and the
punch table is looked alter by Mrs.
Susan Carroll and Mrs. Bella White.
The program lant evening was started
at 8 o'clock and consisted of selections
bv the orchestra and an exhibition drill
given by the ladies. The drill which
known as the "guard drill, waa given by
sixteen ladies under the direction of their
captain, Mrs. Gladys Perkins, and it
lasted for something like twenty min
utes, during which the performers were
put through all sorts of mano-uvres with
out a slip Ix'ing apparent to the audi
ence during the whole time,
At the close of the evening's program
the floor was cleared for dancing anl
Carroll's orchestra, who were in attend
ance to furnish music during the pro- I
gram, continued to play for the riancera
who thronged the floor until midnight.
The attendance last evening was ex
ceptionally large for an opening nigiu.
and the sale of articles from the Ias.it l,s
was large. Nearly four hundred tiikct
were taken at the di r.
This evening a different program, con-
The first serious automobile accident!
of the season occurred just south of the
South Alain street bridge this afternoon
around 1 o'clock when a car owned and
driven by Game Warden Charles Keith '
of North Seminary street turned over,
pinning Fire Chief C. B. Gladding under
the machine and injuring both men, se
riously. Chief Gladding was hurried to
the'City hospital in an ambulance, a cur
sory examination having disclosed a frac
ture of the !rc r left limb at the thigh,
and serious abtaaions on the scalp. Gams
Warden Keith was taken to bis home,
where physicians treated him for injur
ies in the back.
Just what caused the accident is
matter for speculation. The game war
den and Chief Gladding, in the former's
ford touring car, started soon after din-
ner for the Williamstown road, where
they planned to scatter fish fry in tho
brook. I'assersby noticed the driver
stopping to adjust his car near the South
Main street bridge. A moment after
ward, the machine, gathering speed for ,
the sharp ascent of jockey Hollow hill.
struck the Bjrre & Chelsea railroad sud
denly wher it swings into the highway
from Uoynton street and veered suddenly
to the left of the road. Apparently Mr.
Keith was attempting to guide the cap
away from the high bank which skirts)
the road on the easterly side. At any
rate the car veered again toward the
sidewalk on the right and finally turned
over in the gutter. People who hurried
to the assistance t)f the men found Chief
Gladding lying helpless under the car.
Mr. Keith managed to extricate himself
and others lifted the car while the chief
was lifted from his precarious position.
Dr. W. E. Lazell was summoned and
a rush call was sent in for an ambu
lance. Chief Gladding retained conscious
ness, although somewhat dazed. Mr.
Keith seemingly did not realize the so--
rious nature of his injuries Until several
moments after the accident occurred. Ho
suffered considerably and was finally per.
suaded to enter W.'G. Reynolds' ear and
be driven to his home. Wounds on Chief
Cladding's head were caused, it is)
thought, when the car settled info the
gutter, thereby pinning him under the
body of the machine. He was bleeding1
profusely and the trip to the hospital
was not undertaken until the wounds
had been bound. At the hospital the
doctors bent themselves to the task of
reducing the leg fracture. Physicians
who attended the men said it was too
early to determine whether they had sus
tained internal injuries.
Comparatively little damage was dona
to the car. The windshield was shat
tered and parts of the metal hotly were
badly jammed. Garage men who arrived
on the scene later in the afternoon were
inclined to ascribe the accident to defec
tive radius rods. Others who had driven
to Jockey Hollow in autos looked at the
machine and said that other parts of the
steering gear might have been respon
sible for the turn-over. There was
very general impression, however, that
the rough condition of the railroad cross
ing and the highway at the point where
the rails shoot across the road may have
deflected the movement of the car in such
a manaer as to make it impossible for
the driver to control the steering gear.
ANTONETTI T0SI.
were, primarily, for the protection of the
city, that a blanket bond may be ob
tained at a lower rate than individual
bonds, and that the city, in a sense, is
the sole beneficiary of the lond. R. S.
Currier supplemented Mr. Glysson's re
marks with a statement to the effect
that he had always favored a plan where
by municipalities should be required to
furnish the bonds and he moved that
the blanket bond le secured at the ex
pense of t lie city.
Mr. (allaghans amendment to lini't
the blmket bond, as he said, to those
ollicials who are getting more than a
part of a salary was not seconded. D.
Sullivan, being one of the men who
seconded the motion made by Mr. Cur
rier, went on record as .favoring the
blanket bond ami the motion whs carried
without a dissenting vote. Adjnirnment
followed.
Marriage at City Hall Followed by Wed
ding Dinner at Bride's Home.
In the council chamber at city hail
Thursday afternoon at 2:4r o'clock.
Miss Mabel Tosi, daughter of Mr. anl
Mrs. (J. Tosi of 90 Brook street, was mar
ried to Carlo Antonetti of 23 Howes
place. Justice of the Peace 'H. W. Scott
performing the ceremony. The couple
were attended by Mr. and Mrs. Andrea
(Yugnola and immediately after the cer
emony a wedding dinner was served at
the bride's home. Bride and groom aro
well known in the Italian colony of
Barre. Mrs. Antonetti was engaged fr
a number of years as a clerk in the
Carleton jewelry store on North Maim
street- Mr. Antonetti is a granitccutter
by trade.
NEW CORPORATIONS.
24
HALTED AT THE LINE.
Team Bound for the Quarries Had
Pints of Whiskey.
Ju-t as he was on the point of crow
ing the city line at (Juarry street Thurs-
Woodbury Co-operative Creamery Co,
and Essex Junction Cemetery Assn.
The Woodbury Co-operative Creamery
Co., Inc., of Woodbury, with 30 names
attached as subscribers, has filed artMe
of association w ith the secretary of state.
The capital stock is fl.OOO, divided into
loo shares. The majority of the snl
scribers are from Woodbury and South
Woodbury, with a few from Marshfield,
Kat Calais and South tfelais.
Articles have aUo been filed by tha
K'ex Junction Cemetery association Snl
the uls'criber are O. S. Nichols, 1. K.
Huntley, K. O. Mudgett G. J. Holmrt
and din' W. Bailey.
RETURNS TO OLD POSITION.
. . t , . .,1 a tiua I ttJtl.l hV l!Ha I dim i I
V. T ?? v T i 7 111 1 n.b. piano solo by M,. Gladys Ridn.l. B. E. Merriam Superintendent of SchoolJ
, vocal solo bv Henrv Carroll, a in Rockingham.
f l.,.-.ior iilec-dh. !... !". "V Bellow. Falls. April " . K. Mer-
L i.7.l l..r tiw. n.rVie. was sol" by M is Lutfi Xelson wiil be offered. rjam, psychologist at the Xew Jersey
r.w.t .,', l..it his Wc while the off,'-1 The arrangements for the fiir were ir. L,,,.. reformatory, has been elected su-
cers remvetl troni uniir irif iront seat ' " ........ ,-. r, ,,.,,.,, . ... .... .........,,.,,
of the wagon, a bn containing 24 pint''1"- Nell" Koben was tre chairman and i to sim ced tl. K. C.iiSinf, who has been
hott of w hiskey. The fan ;. as made tip or t ie to, low ,rg , r!- ted superintendent at limgl.am.
swathed in a horse blanket, (rus re- !rocm! .ers : Mrs. .v4e Alien, .Mrs. KrtM JU-s,
turned tn r-dice headquarters an l Ut.-r " McNeil, .Mr. !! lai-scn. irs. ancv Mr. vierrism s.-Mvl rr perinten'lcnl
appeared before Mag.-traf H. W. S-. tt Aery. Mrs. Mi.a i.icr.aruson an,t .;r,.
C!t r court. Tail, fixed at .Vt. w ( r K -rene rme.
furnisVd bv to respondent for hi p-t It a announce! to ijay Jht t'e ha-
K'-Hinev .Murray oi ,ranite die was a
iMtr in the c;tj this tnnrning while n
his way to t lareiiiont. X. H ti-re ti I
make a visit of several day with rcU- -imesret lx fore laritrafe H W Silt r. Mr- l-nla Picl.artison anl .!rs.of sjhooi f-r K.k-rsr'tsm for three
tivrs. , tr reair. I'ail. fixed at fi ! I h Tcnce rale. 'v,.r prei i ns to I .. Kmin here be
A m,fims of t! e i;re.t..r of the liarre ' f,,,,,;.:,, ', r.-.iinr!etit for hi. n-1 It announced to dav ltt t'e K- d to 11 1 kcn' k. X. .1., a superm-
l'K.rd ot 1 rsde wid he id in the !; pes ranee at a hearing to in court ' Mar ill V open to the pirtdic Saturday It' ndept. and b"it three esr a-o beg a
f -ec. II A. I"!.. t'-tis eer,nc t T f!,i a'ternn. Tl cn'pla nit aja 'n-t j a?tmtn. when tea nil 1 rif-.j t ' r hi duties in the reformatory. M was
'.ak- Anv eiti d lWrr wiei fcasjtrur was enlered with t.rsnd .1 irT Wd-iladiO. free of rhatpe and thc wh ,!e ' l.rn in l:!wi, tb-s state, anl is a grai.
a uii-. ! l puip ul tw waimiy jtm Vit.rt. wtvo w ill prow-ntc. Jht sire an export unit y to in-j-eit tbc ixnti ii- " "isri a nj;i-e, ;Ia i:t isa m
e!"BK'd at t-e bj -ticj. lcsotidcnt has retained E. K. t is. tx.) d w. 1-' .
