f
We
EADEI
I'
VOL. XXXV.
WESTON, OUJSGOX, FRIDAY, XVlllh 28, 4910.
NO. 45.
STON
V
WORLD'S DOINGS
: OF CURRtffr WEQi
BIG CUNS AGAIN LI ACTION
IN KANY SCroilS Of fROKI
London Th Turkish gsrrlson Wed-j
needay, revolted and slew all It Gr-
man officer before th Russians cap
tured Treblsond, says tha Dally Mail's
Udeata correejwndent.
London Artillery bombardments
slotf ara taking place on tha French
I and Belgian fronts, tha on of tha
greatest activity being tha region of
114 Hart Homme, and In tha Arognn
forest, with tha Germane tha aggres-
ora In tha former and tha French In
tha I attar sector.
Tha fighting between tha Russian
and tha German and Austrian along
I fun Niw Item ftl Alt Niiflnn. nrf eastern front eontlnuea at variou
position ara reported. Tha aama la
trua of tha Auatro-ltalian on.
Vienna raporta an attack Easter
Sunday by seven Italian aervplanee on
tha city of Trlest, In which nine civil
ian, flva children, wara killed and flva
woundad. Tha report aaya that ba
esus or thia attack tha "anemy for
feited avery right to hava bia towna
pared."
Tha British and Iwer In Carman
Tha French Una alt amahnl Rochsm- East Africa ara continuing their for-
beau arrive In New York from Hor- ward movement against tha German.
deaui with gun mounted on her having now occupied tha town of Kon-
atero. She I the first Paaaenver ahip doa. In tha Irangi region. Consider
able casualties were wmciea on ue
German.
FRESH REVOLUTION,
BREWING IN MEXICO
Ericf Itae of Gated News
' Frc3 All ArcunJ tte Earth.
...
BATPIKIHaS IS A KUTSK01
Pacific Northwest Condensed
for Our Busy Readers.
Tha Ilrltlih tleamshtp Parisian, of
4703 ton gross, haa been aunk. Tha
crow of tha vessel waa landed. Tha
Parisians left Newport, England, April
20, bound for Norfolk.
New Movement, Presumably by ' Felix Diaz Gives Deep
Concern to Washington Cabinet Discusses Situa
tion, but Awaits Report of General Scott
Tha British also hava been ucraae-
ful In an operation near Deodiar,
i-Vyi't. repulsing with heavy caulile
a Turkish attack. An engagement
near Quatia village, however, remitted
In tha Uritiah being forced to retreat
after an engagement with a Turkiih I
column auperior in number.
IRISH Ifl REBELLION
Widespread Hot Believed Kipped.
to reach thl port thua armed.
President Wilaon haa received tha
third eagle sent him In two month.
It cam from John School, of Port
Jarvla, N. Y., who ald It wa caught
In Sttasei county, New Jersey. Tlie
agl waa aent to the too. .
Sharp rlaea In food price in Den
mark hava alarmed tha people, who
fear further increase if Die war con
tinue. Food Bd every-day iteceasl
, tie are aaid to be up 30 per cent, with
tha rata of increase growing.
Fred Costena, an Importer of New
York, amirtad an Ma arrival turn
aboard tha French Urn .Uamahlp Mgjfljf Q t'pfisiGJ
tha entraining at Marseille two week
ago of a force of Jpan soldiers,
too strong.
' To test the new atat law of Florid
making It illegal for white persona to
teach negroes, three nuns from St.
Joseph' convent at lit. Augusiln
war placed under technical arrest
Tbey were released on their own
cognisance.
While 4699 man have enlisted in the
arr.iy since March IS, when congress
authorised an Increase of 20,000, army
official astl mated that the actual net
gain haa been something over 2000,
Army official say the present recruit
ing ia satisfactory and above normal,
Tha government" case against
Frans von Bintelen and those associ
ated with him In tha labor trouble
among tha munition plants of this
country la declared to have been
strengthened by tha discovery of cer
tain documents relating to payments
mad to von Klntelon,
The senate consider tha long-pend
ing rural credit bill to itabliah farm
loan bank. The bill create farm
loan board to control a system of 12 or
mora land
Washington, D. C While immedi
ate Interest centers naturally In tha
aitualion aa to tha Iroope In Mexico;
there wera renewed indications about
tha Mate department Saturday that
wholly different aspect of the Mexican
problem wa causing concern. That la
the movement supposedly beaded by
Felix Dlax, nephew of the former
Mexican dictator, for nsw revoluUon
sgslnst tha da facto government.
None of tha Information upon which
the uneasiness rests hss been disclosed.
It Is known, however, that several
Mexicans In tha United State are be
ing closely watched and it seems possi
ble that some of tha anti-American
feeling in Chihuahua state, which hss
met ths troops pursuing Villa, may be
attributed to thia movement.
The Dias government. It la said, haa
tha backing of various element of
Mexicans, both In Mexico and thia
country. As viewed by the State de
partment, it is understood the activi
ties of the persons are tha more
dangerous because they ara wealthy,
white tha da facto government la in
volved in a snarl of financial compli
cation which would be hard to over
come even In tlmea of complete peace.
Funtton Sand Mors Troop.
San Antonio, Tex. General Fun-
ton Issued order Tuesday that will
place at tha disposal of General Per
shing 1300 more troop.
lie bss ordered to proceed to Colum
bus, N. M., ths Cth Csvslry from th
Brownsvlll district, tha 17tb Infantry
from Eagle Pass, th first battalion of
tha 24th Infantry from Esgla Pass and
Troop L from th 10th cavalry. Fort
Apache. .
It may be that th War department
may have to author! x th sending of
tha few remaining troop In tha Unit
ed SUte Into this department, or it
may be that filling of tha vacant poet
along the border may be left to tna
government of Texas, which may send
th militia.
Pursuit at Standstill.
Washington, D. G Th administra
tion Is waiting on further reports from
American officers In Mexico before de
elding whether the expedition seeking
Villa shall be withdrawn or reinforced
for farther operations. Indications at
tha War department bore out pre re
ports from th front that th pursut of
Vila waa temporarily at a standstill.
although there haa been no chsnge in
policy. .,:
President Wilson and bis cabinet
discussed th Mexican situation Tues
day in tha light of review of it mil
itary aspect submitted by Gen. r un-
ston. It waa announced later that th
situation was unchanged and tha ad
ministration's policy unaltered. One
member of tha cabinet admitted, bow-
ever, that no decision bad been reach
ed as to the withdrawal of th troops.
tit
mifMT rinrttT tm.r
MH ftttUUI lAUUill rWMU
fOE TO IAD WAS KUmiCHS
ia DubtuL American Line of Communications Being Menaced
London With 12 persona killed
and 19 wounded as the result of an up-1
rising In Dublin Tuesday, all Ireland
I smouldering volcano.
Although tha capital was almost!
completely Isolated by th cutting of I
telegraph line when th rebel teixed
th postoflica, th government pro-1
fessra to bo in control of tha situation.
Th most aanguiiM, however, will not I
predict what even th next hour will I
bring forth.
AugustliMi Birrell, .chief secretary
for Ireland, who mad th first an-1
neunewment of th troubl in th bous I
of common Wednesday, could give I
few details. Tb government knew,
he said, that about a dosea sol
dier had been killed, that arrests
had been made, and that troop war
on Lh way from Th Curragh to Dub
lin. It did not know th number of
rioter killed, or the parts of tha city
that war atlll in their poaeeeeion.
So far aa known, the troubl started
at noon on Monday in tha center off
Dublin. A mob. composed mainly or
members of the Sinn Fein ociety,
banks, which would mak suixed Stephens Green, a larga park
loan to farmer on mortgage, and I near th Royal university; th post-
also a series of fsrm loan associations, office on Ssckvill street and several
vhlch would represent th farmer in houses Immediately adjoining.
dealing with th banks. Troops, hsstity summoned, and loyal
It la learned that the number of I volunteers sought to xtcl the rebels.
Japan settler on Panama territory no meanwnii im iw bu w com
bs been mad th subject of report munlcatlon line. In th fighting that
by United State Consul General Atban wsued two policemen and two cit ten
G. Snvder to th Stat dmrmtent t wiiea. wgeiner wiui severw eo.-
Waahlngton. It la aald that within
th past ysar mora than 100 Japanese
have com to Panama and entered vari
ous occupations, especially that of fish
ermen.. A large Ruaaian fore has been land
ed In France.
A tornado in Eastern Kanisa and
Western Missouri is believed to have
killed at least 20.
Tha editor of a German paper In
Chicago declare thl country ia In for
"cleaning up."
Th capture of Treblxond by Rus
sians make possible direct attack
on Constantinople. ;
Preeldent and Mr. Wilson received
several thousand member of the
Daughters of th American Revolu
tion, assembled for their annual con
gre, and also of tb Children of th
American Revolution
If a friend semi for liquor under a
permit and haa it shipped to you in
trust for him, and you are caught with
thia liquor and some of your own, you
ara guilty of having an oversuppiy in
your possession, according to th de
cision rendered by , police judge of
Aberdeen, wash.
Ssven Villlstsa were found guily of
murder in the first degree at Doming,
N. M., a th result of th raid upon
Columbus, Ail were wounded and only
two could stand up when the indict
ment wss read. One was brought into
the courtroom lying on a cot. The
penalty for the crim for which th
Mexicans were convicted is dentil by
hanging.
There ia fear in Washington that
submarine attacks may occur whlls
this country awaits Germany's answer
to tha ultimatum, thua forcing crisis.
' An earthquake . lasting 12 seconds
rocked house on tha Canary Islands
Frldsy. Tha shock wss accompanied
by loud rumblings, and terrified the
population. The damage was email.
To curtail ths number of drunks in
Pendleton, Oregon, and to enforce the
prohibition laws, th purchasers and
amount of liquor sold each month by
each of the drug stores will be pub-;
tlshed. .
diera,
It I the connection between th
volt and the attempted landing of Sir
Roger Casement with German arms on
th Irish coast that makes the situa
tion ominous. It It believed now that
there ii a vast conspiracy afoot
through all Ireland and that the arri
val of Sir Roger had been aet as the
signal for a general uprising.
The official statement, however, as
sert thst th disturbance were local
ised in Dublin. Report received from
Cork, Limerick, Ennle, Tralee and
both riding of Tipperary, where the
Sinn Feiner have been especially
strong, show that if any revolt were
planned they failed to materialize,
through Cases Grandes, Chihuahua, and
The prompt aeixure of Casement and Satevo, Whether or not supply auto
the sinking of the German auxiliary are on their way to Parrel to help
with her cargo of arm are believed to Major Tompkins is not known.
General Pershing' force of 12,000
men In Mexico since Carranca has
not premitted use of the railroads for
supplies is now menaced on line
some 400 mile long, reaching from
Columbus. N. M.. to Parrel, where
Major Tompkins haa clashed with a
mob. Thia line, over which automo
bile truck have carried provisions for
hta soldiers, reached from Columbus
have disorganised th plana of the
leader.
None of the Irish leaders here are
believed implicated in the plots. Both
Sir Edward Carton, who i one of the
itrongost members of coalition govern-
ment. and John Redmond, the Nation
alist chief, unite In condemning the
acta of rebellion.
Carranta has many thousand soldiers
scattered through this territory. They
would be UBod at once against Ameri
can troop if the clash came. They
are distributed, as follows: At Chi
huahua, General Gutierret with 5,000;
atParralSOO; atJiminet 600; north
ern Sonora, General Callea vita 12,
000; at Satevo, General Herrera with
Alaska Work la Stopped. Bacon Held Real Author,
Washington, D. C All work on the Chicago Francis Bacon was de-
government railroad has been brought clared to be the author of the works of
to a standstill by renewal of the William Shakespeare in a decision retv
strike among workmen on the line and I dered in an injunction auit Saturday
there will be no attempt to continue by Judge Richard S. Tuthili In the Ur
construction until a definite settlement euit court. The decision dissolved an
of the labor trouble has been effected, injunction Issued on the petition or
A dispatch reaching Secretary Lane, William N. Selig, motion picture man-
Of the Interior department, revealed ufacturer, to restrain Oeorge f abyart,
that tha walkout last Saturday, do- publisher, and. others from completing
scribed in news disDatches as affecting miblication of books supporting the
work north of Anchorage, had in real- Baconian theory. The court held that
Ity resulted In abandonment of opera
tion all along the line.
Miners' Strike Predicted.
New York Efforta to harmonise the
demands of the anthracite miners and
th concession offered by the opera
tors were broken off Wednesday, after
more then eight weeks of almost con
tinuous discussion here by a joint sub
committee representing both employers
and employe. Predictions were msd
by members of the miners' general
board that the trl-district convention,
to be held at Pottsviile, Pa., on May
2, would vote in favor of a strike.
I the name Shakespeare had been used
simply as a disguise. '
Air Fleet Raids Germans.
Paris Three more raids by squad
ron ox rencn aeroplane on uerman
positions near the Greek border are re
ported in Hava dispatch from Sa
lonikl. French areoplanea bombarded
the German camps at Negotin, Serbia
and Podroritx, Montenegro; the bar
racks at Gievell, the German hangar
at Negotin, th supply station at Stru
mitsa and the camp at Padagasi.
The dispatch says many bomb wera
effective. -
1200; at Juarez, General Gavira with
1800: at Madera General Bartani with
800: at Namsquipa, General Cano
with 800; at Guerrero, General Cavaa-
son with ouu, and at uasas urarraes,
General Davilla with 1200. At Tor-
reon, southeast of Parral, General
Trevino haa 4000. The Arrieta broth
er are operating in uurango wiin
about 3000 men and then there are the
Villa bandiU
Steven Killed by Tornado.
Kansas City, Eleven persons were
reported dead and score injured, sev
eral seriously, in a succession of tor
nadoes which swept through the cen
tral portions of Eastern Kansas and
Western Missouri Thursday. Proper
ty damage was believed to be great;
although accurate information wa un
available because of disabled telegraph
and telephone service. The storm
areaa centered north of Topeka, in a
line running from the southwestern
corner of Wilson county, in Kansas,
across the Missouri line.
Iowa Swept by Tornado.
Mason City, Ma A tornado swept
through North Central Iowa and
Southern Minnesota lata Thursday, de
stroyed a number of farm house, in
jured probably a score of persona and
killed several bead of livestock. At
Bricelyn, Minn., aeven persona were
injured, some seriously.
Two farm houses at Belmont, alina.
were blown down ana aweuings in
Kleister, Minn., wore damaged, sc-
cording to report received here.
London Sir Roger Casement baa
been captured from Cerman ablp
which attempted to land arm in Ire
land and wa rank. Thl official an
nouncement waa made Tuesday a fol
lows :
"During the period between the af
ternoon of April 20 and th afternoon
of April 21 an attempt to land arm
and ammunition In Ireland waa made
by a vessel under the guise of a neu
tral merchant ship, but which In real
ity wa German auxiliary, In con
junction with a Carman aubmarine.
The auxiliary wa rank and a num
ber of prisoner were made, amongst
whom wa Sir Roger Casement."
Th new of th capture of Sir
Roger wa received with satisfaction.
mingled with regret, at the termina
tion of what previous to hi alleged
ctivitie with th German had been
a brilliant career, useful both to hu
manity and bla own country. That be
should have engaged in such s madcap
enterprise aa the British official eonv
muincation give aa th reason lor his
seizure is considered ss lending color
to the view held by hi old friend here
that he is mentally unbalanced.
Little had been beard of Sir Roger
in thia country for many month. Last
October returned Irish prisoner re
ported that Sir Roger had visited the
prison camp at Limborg and vainly
tried to induce Irish prisoner to join
an Irish brigade be waa said to be
raising In Germany to fight against
England. It wa reported a abort
time ago that Sir Roger had applied
for citizenship in Bavaria. Later
came a report from a neutral country
that be bad been arrested in Germany
on an unspecified charge.
V2a Reputed live, Wounded, ,
ii Agsia Located ifl Essoins
San Antonio, Tex. Report from
General Pershing Tuesday indicated
that Francisco Villa had been located
again, this time west of Parral, in the
mountain of Western Chihuahua. He
was last reported at Nonoava, 85 mile
from Satevo. The report also indi
cated that Villa waa wounded, but only
slightly, and that he was far from be
ing incapacitated.
General Funston regarded the infor
mation that General Pershing had se
cured as authentic. No troop have
been sent out. It waa realised that
pursuit of Villa in the locality he had
chosen could be successfully conducted
only after many more troop had been
sent into Mexico.
Unofficial reports Indicated that Car
ranta bad sent gradually into the north
an army much larger than that of the
American force, and a great part of
the Mexican force is in a position to
conduct a pursuit of Villa and his
scattered organizations that would be
more effective than would be a contin
uation of the American campaign if
conducted along the present lines.
NEWS ITEMS
Of General Interest
About Oregon
Six Batlkslsips Propose!
Washington, D. C A draft of the
naval appropriation bill, the second of
the administration's great prepared
ness measures, was reported by a sub
committee Tuesday to the bouse' naval
committee, which Thursday begins
consideration of the construction sec
tion. : . '
Present indication are that the pro
posed five-year building program will
be approved, but that the first year's
allotment of new ships will be increas
ed from two dreadnaughts and two
battle cruisers, a proposed by Secre
tary Daniels, to two dreadnaughts and
four battle cruisers.
The measure as submitted by the ap
propriations subcommittee carries a
total of 217,652,174 for the coming
year, on a basis of the secretary's rec
ommendations of four capital ships.
Iliret Zeppelins Raid io fnglasl
London Three Zoppeilns visiter the
eastern counties Monday night.
They dropped incendiary bombs, ac
cording to an official announcement.
The conditions were ideal for the Zep
pelin raider. The night was dark and
the atmosphere clear.
The raider appeared at about the
customary hour and seemed a little un
certain as to their location, as the
early reports showed that only incen
diary bombs were being dropped.
War Craft Surveyed.
Vallejo, Cal Order have been re
ceived at the Mare Island navy yard
dicrectimr an inspection and survey of
all privately-owned vessels in this dis
trict that might be available aa auxil
iaries in time of war. The order di
rect that a report be made to the
Navy department on all details of the
work that would be rqeuired for the
conversion of such vessel and a list
furnished of the government or private
yards at which the necessary work
could be done within 14 day after a
declaration of hostilities.
Lisbon Expels Germans. :
Paris As a result of the entrance
of Portugal into the war, Germans in
thst country have been notified to de
part within five days, a Lisbon dis
patch to the Temps says. -
This order applies to all Germans
except men of military age and fitness,
who are to be interned on Terciera
Island, on of the Azores, where a
state of siege has been declared. All
commercial transactions with Germans,
the Temps says, are declared void.
Three Governors to Visit.
Salem Governor Alexander, of Ida-
bo, has notified Governor Withyeombe
that he will be present at the Oregon
Stat Fair September 29, Governors'
Dsr.
Governor Lister, of Wsshington,
slso has accepted Governor Withy,
eombe' invitation to be guest at
the State Fair. In return Governor
Withyeombe will visit the Wsshington
Stat Fsir at North Yakima.
Commenting on Governor Withy
combe's plan for an interchange of
visit between executive of the three
Northwestern states with a view of
stimulsting interest in th state fair,
Governor Alexander wrote;
"Thl interchange of visit of th
executives of th neighboring state Is
a happy thought, aa so msny of our
interest ara mutual."
: State Money is Involved.
Salem The right to possession of
125.000 paid by tb state of Oregon
for th building and ground of th Sa
lem hocpital will be decided between
the hospital and the Oregon Children's
Aid society by Circuit Judge Kelly
here next week. -
Through condemnation proceedings
the state acquired the hospital proper
ty atiich adjoins the state asylum.
turning over $25,000 appropriated by
the legislature in payment. The mon
ey, now in possession of the county
clerk, is claimed by the hospital au
thorities and also the Children' Aid
society. The Utter claim th money
by reason of the term of tb deed io
which it conveyed the property to the
hospital association. The deed speci
fies that the hospital shall maintain a
children' ward and not dispose of the
property. Now by condemnation the
Aid society claim it is entitled to the
money.
Early Irrigation Started.
Klamath Falls Water was turned
into the Griffith canal Saturday by the
Reclamation service. This is a week
earlier than the water will be used
generally over the project, but it was
necessary to supply the sandy lands in
th Sand Hollow and Malin districts,
aa they are blown badly by the strong
April winds.
The water waa turned in from Lost
river, and would otherwise nave wast
ed away through the diversion canal to
Klamath river. Heretofore the Malin
ranchers have suffered considerably be
cause water could not reach them ex
cept through the main canal, but the
enlarging and extension of the Griffith
canal last summer haa brought great
relief. ' -
GERM'S FLEET i
ATTACKS BI61AQ
Ccasl Qy b Beaded If
Kalss W2fsL;s.
Two Men, On? '-Woman and Chi'd,
Are Kined-terusl Damage
Light Attackers Retreat
London German battle cruiser ap-.
peered off Lowestoft Tuesday. Loral ,
naval force engaged the raitkrs,
did also British light cruiser. Th ,
German warship retreated in 20 min- -
ute.
Tb German warship opened fir on
the coast before departing. Two men,.!
one woman and a child were killed.
Th material damage apparently wa
smalL ' ' f
la th engagement two British light
cruiser snd a destroyer wera hit, but
none of them waa sunk.
Th following official announcement .
was made:
"At about 4:30 o'clock this morn-'
inir. the German battle cruiser aquad-.
ron, accompanied by light cruiser and
destroyers, appeared off Lowestoft.'
The local naval forces engaged it and
in about 20 minute it returned to Ger
many, chased by our light cruiser arxr-
destroyers.
'On shore two men, one woman and
a child were killed. The material
damage seems to have been insignifi
cant, so far aa is known at present.
Two British light cruiser and a de
stroyer wera hit, but none was una." ,
FESIDEXI SDIDS GGwIAXY Ml-
mm e,i mm trm
Flax to Go at $25 a Ton.
Salem The State Board of Control
has authorized the sale of five tons of
flax straw to the Minnesota State Ex
periment Station for $25 a ton. The
Minnesota authorities desire to conduct
certain experiments and testa with the
straw. An offer of $50 a ton was
made for ten tons, but the State Board
of Control felt it could not spare so
much. In view of the fact that the
straw haa cost the state only $15 a
ton, the offer of $50 a ton was deemed
too great and the price was cut in
hslf.
Total May Be 225,000.
Salem Oregon's registration for the
primaries this year will total approxi
mately 225.000, or 6000 less than two
years ago, according to the estimates
of the secretary of state's office.
Reports so far give a total registra
tion of 217,779, of whom 146,000 are
Republicans and 54,251 Democrats.
Progressives number 1169: Prohibi
tionists, 5134; Socialists, 4900, and
miscellaneous registrations, 6325. The
registration shows 67.04 per cent Re
publicans and 24.91 Democrats.
Lockwood Quits Race,
Salem Charles E. Lockwood, of
Portland, haa withdrawn as a candi
date for the Republican nomination
for President of the United States,
and requested Secretary of State Oi-
cott not to certify his name for print
ing on the ballot at the primary elec
tion May 19." - Reason for his with
drawal is given in the fact that the
Oregon Supreme court has decided that
the name of Charles E. Hughes be
placed on the Republican ballot for
President.
Bar View to Get Road.
Bar View The much talked of road
through this place is about to be real
ized. The county commissioners have
decided to go ahead with the construc
tion as qiuckly aa preliminary work
can be done, and it is expected that
the latter part of this week will see
the thing in full swing. Since the
high tides last fall Bar View has been
cut off from the outside world as far
as road connection is concerned.
Pulp Mill Machinery Bought.
Marahfield One of the paper mills
at Oregon City has purchased the ma
chinery in the C. A. Smith pulp mill,
near this city, and will remove it soon
to Oregon City. The Smith pulp mill
had been closed for 15 months. This
indicates that there will be renewal of
activities for the present
Merrill Has Rables'Scare.
Klamtah Falls The town of Merrill
is much excited over a raoies scare.
A coyote that bit a dog waa killed and
its hesd aent to the Oregon Agricul
tural College for analysis, the report
being that unmistakable signs of ra
bies were apparent.
Washington, D. C President Wil
son Wednesday, on the anniversary of
the battle of Lexington, told congress,
assembled in joint session shortly
after 1 o'clock, he had given Germany
irrevocable notification that the Unit
ed States will break off diplomatic re
lations if her illegal submarine cam
paign is continued.
- A note, America' but word, prac
tically an ultimatum, and demanding
an immediate reply, without setting
an arbitrary time , limit, presumably
waa in the Berlin foreign office a the
President was speaking. It was dis
patched Tuesday night, in accordance
with the President's plan to have it
before the German government at the
same moment he waa addressing the
American conrgesa.
The President asked no action what
ever of congress. ; He simply in
formed it of the accumulation of facta
proving that Germany' assurance to
the United States are being violated
and that the submarine campaign, de
spite the earnest protests of the Unit
ed States, is being conducted with re
newed vigor in contravention of all the
law of nations and humanity, and that
he means to sever relation unless it i
brought within the law. Diplomatic
history of the world shows that such s
course is almost certain to be followed
by war. ;
The President said:
"I have deemed it my duty, there
fore, to say to the Imperial German
government that if it is still its pur
pose to prosecute relentless and indis
criminate warfare against vessels of
commerce by the use of submarines
notwithstanding the now demonstrated
impossibility of . conducting that war
fare in accordance with what the gov-,
emmentof the United -State must
consider the sacred and indisputable
rules of international law and the uni
versally recognized dictates of .human
ity, the government of the United
States is at last forced to the conclu
sion that there is but one course it can
pursue, and that unless the Imperial
German government should now im
mediately declare and effect an aban
donment of ' its present methods of
warfare against passenger and freight
carriny vessels, this government can
have no choice but to sever diplomatic
relations with the government of the
German empire altogether." '
U. S. to Hold von Igel.
New York Wolfe von Igel will not
be released from custody and only a
part of the documents seized at the
time of his arrest on a charge of being
implicated in a plot to destroy the
Welland Canal will be returned to tns
German embassy, U. S. Attorney R.
S. Marshall announced Thursday. His
statement wss made in explanation of
the latest phase of the tangle which
followed the arrest of the former sec
retary to Captain Franx von Fspen.
Von Igel now is declared to be an at
tache of the German embassy.
Chinese Revolt Gains.
San Francisco Independent of,
Yuan Shi Kai has been declared by .
Fort Kiang Yin. of Tu Tun?, both
near Nankin, in the province of ii.isr.g-
su, on the Yang-tse-Kiang, according
to Shanghai advices to the Chinese Re
public association-here. It i;.;.-.-"
that the revolution' s -air.ia Y'jn i ' i
Kai has spread into K , I . ' ,
which, if it declares i-.s i. J. , - : .
would make lie id .th prott.u- i.
China dominated by toe revohniumit.
