Vol. 26 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 15, 1916 No 5 M
H An Independent Paper Published Under
H ;: the Management of J. T. Goodwin ::
H EDITORIALS B Y JUDGE C. C. GOOD WIN
B The Last Mexican Outrage
M TT HE killing of a trainload of Americans in
B Mexico by the beaten faction of Villa's
H bandits was on land very much like the sinking
H of the Lusitania at sea. The men should never
B have been sent there -without a sufficient guard
B to protect them. The United States government
H in concert with Brazil, Argentine and Chile rec-
H ognized Carranza and withdrew all help and rec-
H ognition from Villa, who had won all Carranza's
H victories. That left Villa in the same situation,
H that the Southern Confederacy was in after Ap-
H pomattox. The Southern soldiers went to their
H homes and began again to build up their broken
jH fortunes. Villa's soldiers broke up into guerilla
H bands and commenced to loot friend and. foe
H alike. Their atrocities culminated in this last
H murder of nineteen Americans. It was a natural
H conclusion and is not a surprise to anyone who
H knows anything about Mexican character. There
H, is just now a sudden great outcry against Presi-
H dent Wilson, and it is just, this far. President
H Wilson from the first has not only known nothing
H of Mexican character but he has refused to learn
H anything. He took up a theory that the way to
H subdue a Bengal tiger was to feed him soothing
M syrup. When Huerta caused the assassination of
H the president of Mexico, except for the president's
H stubborness and his refusalto believe the truth
about the Mexican nature he would have set
H the army and navy in motion proclaiming to the
H world and to Mexico that it did not want one foot
B of Mexican soil, but that it was determined that
H there should be order in Mexico and the safety of
H Americans and all other foreigners there should
H be assured. It would have been fixed there two
H years ago and before this time the natural indus-
K tries of Mexico would have been resumed, our
B army and navy removed; there would have been
B no longer any fear of murder and the heart-burn-
Hi ings would long ago have ceased. The blame of
M the president is that he was determined to work
1 the business out his own way and his refusal to
m accept the statements of men who knew what
they were talking about. He has put his trust in
! Carranza who is the least worthy of belief of
all the long list of bandits and murderers, and
liars, who have one after another come to the
surface there and who has not so far fulfilled one
, expectation of those who enabled him to obtain
j control. The hardest thing that can be said about
H President Wilson is that he has no natural aptl-
HK! tude, no training, no experience to fit him to cope
Hi successfully with assassins and thieves who have
j for the time being obtained places where they
Ican prey upon their fellow men. We are not at
all certain that the most just and expeditious way
m to settle the troubles of Mexico would be even at
B this late day to take that country, establish order,
H1' then call an election and establish a government.
Hi
K
Hi
ML
The mining companies who sent the officers and
men yiere to resume work in their mines, with
out first taking means to protect them, merely
made clear that they knew as little about Mex
ican character as did President Wilson himself.
Joyous, But Not Logical
CHAMP CLARK has a great sense o humor,
but he is not always logical. He says the
Republicans are grieved to death over the pros
perity of the country, meaning the prosperity
that has come (because of a Democratic adminis
tration. Inasmuch as all the present prosperity
comes through supplying the belligerents of Eu
rope with war material arms, ammunition, food,
clothing, mules, horses, etc., then to be logical
if the prosperity is due to the Democratic admin
istration, that same administration to make the
prosperity, must be responsible for the war. Cer
tainly the great party would not ascribe all the
prosperity that has come through its ministra
tions to a foreign cause. We suspect that Mr.
Clark would have trouble in giving us a bill of
particulars. He, like his President, must see
that one great need of this country is a mer
chant marine. Suppose he were called upon to
outline a plan for handling our sea-going com
merce in a business way, what would he give
us? From the time that he stood at his mother's
knee, and with his mother's milk imbibed Demo
cratic principles, his idea of ships and their use
has been precisely like old man Carlton's, who
was United States commissioner here from Terre
Haute, Ind. He was discussing the tariff one
day and the wickedness of paying subsidies to
already rich ship owners and said: "A ship is
precisely like a camel; if a merchant in Joppa
wants to send a caravan load of merchandise to
Damascus, he hires the cheapest train of camels
that he can find for that purpose," and no argu
ment could shake his conclusion. The fact that
a merchant should have his own camel train,
have his own camel drivers, see that his goods
were delivered and if his Damascus friends
wanted anything else, or what the merchant In
Damascus had to exchange for the goods, or
what was being produced in the neighborhood
cf Damascus, that might foe of use in Joppa
none of these things had any impression on old
man Carlton, for they were contrary to Demo
cratic principles as he imbibed them from away
back; and when asked how an American ship
could carry goods in competition with an Eng
lish ship that had a subsidy which was sufficient
to pay for all the coal burned between ports, he
replied, "That the thing to do is to send them
by the English ship." And when asked if It
would not be better to patronize American ship
" owners rather than the very rich English ship
owners, he declared that "anything would be bet
ter than to build up bloated monopolies in this
country," and that, in his judgment, closed the
debate. Champ Clark is vastly more intelligent
that old man Carlton was, but he has the same
views on American shipping that old man Carl
ton had, and while he must have been a good
deal shaken up over the situation as it has been
presented during the past eighteen months, we M
have no idea that his mind has been in the least M
changed inv regard to American shipping, or that M
he has reached any fixed conclusion as to how - M
our flag can be restored to the sea. While they M
will not admit it, the constitution that has gov- H
erned the party now in power since the fourth M
of March, 1913, has been that constitution that 'M
was tenderly composed and laid away in the ,M
grave of the dead Confederacy.
Preparedness For War :H
SOME years ago a distinguished English writer 'H
said, that England had not had a war for '1
three hundred years for which she was prepared H
when it burst upon them. Never enough soldiers, H
never enough material, with the natural result 'H
that most victories were won by forlorn hopes; 'H
the men fighting at tremendous odds, held up in lH
battle until exhausted, and sacrificing thousands LH
of lives unnecessarily, simply because the force l!
in the beginning was too small. H
General Hamilton's account of the fighting on . H
the Gallipoli peninsula is a reminder that the H
same rule is still continued. Great Britain has ! H
depended on her fleet, and when any land forces I H
have been needed they have always been insuf- H
ficient and thousands of lives have been uselessly H
sacrificed. Even at Waterloo, after Napoleon had ! H
been threatening the invasion of England for f H
years, the utmost that the allies could do was i H
to array an inferior force against France. Na- j H
poleon's old army of half a million men had per- T
ished on the retreat from Moscow. But despite H
that disaster, and despite all the losses that
France had suffered in those twenty years in sup- iil
plying Napoleon with army after army to carry ijfl
on his conquests, when the final reckoning came,
Napoleon set that last battle in array with every I H
indication of victory because he had more guns l
and more men than all his enemies combined, I H
and only the decree of fate above and the failure I
of Grouchy below, gave the allies the victory. In !, M
considering a way to have this country prepared H
for war that history should be kept in mind and M
the one striking thought above all others should M
be, that whatever else is done, our armies should M
never be so contracted in numbers as to make a M
useless sacrifice of thousands of brave lives M
necessary. Of course there should be care to M
keep abreast of every improvement made in the M
means of destruction. Indeed premiums should H
be perpetually offered for every improvement an- M
nounced, for every discovery in chemistry, for f M
every improved application in mechanics, and M
facilities should always be kept ample for swiftly M
supplying soldiers with the most modern in3tru- l
ments of death; but the great essential need is to rrH
have men trained and to have facilities arranged IH
to concentrate them at any desired point. We fl
believe that the opinion of many military men B
is that this can be best done by making pre- ll
Hminary military training a part of the curricu- l
lum of all the high schools or advanced schools, H
and then have a month's manuevers every auaj II
tumn directed by officers of the regular army, a'ndj l
! M
CM
