It is not so difficult task to plant
new truths as to root out old errors,
tor there Is this paradox In men: they
run after that which Is new, but are
prejudiced In favor of that which Is
old.
I0T BUME
Detective Agencies' Gunmen And
Company Police Hired to
Stir Workers.
DISTRIf ""FORNEY
3W«o|
Ca"-
Grand Jury Conducting
gation and Company Officials
Are Summoned to Appear.
YOUNGSTOWN, O., Jan. 13.—
"After 48 hours of constant and care­
ful investigating I can say that or­
ganized labor has a clean bill of
health in the East Youngstown riot,
and, not only that, but leaders of or­
ganized labor did everything they
could to prevent trouble, though the
men were not their men and were
not organized."
So said District Attorney A. M.
Henderson, and, after quietly re­
marking to that effect, he fired a
bomb—one that may be the first of
a series to follow before the final
chapter of this bloody business is
1 written.
"President James A. Campbell, of
1 the Youngstown Sheet and Tube com
pany, will be summoned to go before
I the grand jury," he said. "Campbell
will be ordered to bring with him all
I books and records showing what de­
tective agencies have been hired by
the company to send men here. The
District Attorney wants to know how
many gunmen the company brought,
where it got them, and why it got
them."
Revelations Are Expected.
Those are but two points in a story
that reeks with the film of the rot«
tenest of rotten business, and which,
If its veracity can be established in
court and the county officials stick
to the job, ought to make one of the
most astounding in American finan­
cial and industrial history
Bringing it all to a focus, General
Organizer T. H. Flynn, of the Amer­
ican Federation cf Labor, issued a
lengthy statement this morning. This
statement was carefully looked over
by Flynn after it had been "trans­
cribed, and was then signed by him.
Th$ statement has created a storm
of consternation in this city. Flynn
said:
"I do-not think there- was-arry-for
eign influence involved. I think it
-"was a financial scheme, rigged up
as a last desperate resort to depress
the value of the work's stock, so
that interests that are trying to form
a great half-billion dollar merger
could -=ret the control that they
wanted. Strangely enough, control
of the tube work's stock is held by
local men. They did not want to
sell. T'ley figured that stock worth
$300 to others was worth that to
them, And they wanted to keep the
control in Youngstown.
Rockefeller in Deal.
"The proposed merger was to in­
clude Colorado Fuel and Iron, Cam­
bria Steel, Youngstown Sheet and
Tube and the Lackawanna Steel com­
pany, Colorado Fuel and Iron means
John D. Rockefeller, and John D.
Rockefeller's name brings up strange­
ly familiar remembrances of Trini­
dad.
"Here is another nail that drives
home the proof of devilishness
While East Youngstown was in
flames some of the American Federa­
tion of Labor organizers, with some
local business men got automobiles
and hurried to the scene. They
found that the men who were firing
the building with torches were not
molested by the police, but where
residents, excited by events, found
saloons already broken into and went
(Continued on Page 2.)
A few months ago the plight of the
shingle weavers of the State of Wash­
ington could not have been worse.
They were out of jobs by the hun­
dred. They were in debt to grocer and
landlord. Their families faced winter
in actual distress. And their union
had been smashed.
Today these men own their jobs.
The fear of unemployment is gone.
They are living in comfortable secur­
ity. They actually own many of the
inills*froni -which they were forced by
shutdowns due to business depression.
And for this industrial miracle a
logger preacher, the Rev. Oscar H.
McGill, of Seattle, is largely respon
sible.
Success Is Surprising
With him as leader, the former em­
ployes of a dozen big mills have
turned their gloomiest hour into their
"brightest opportunity.
Co-operation wrought the change,
The inspiration of the venture, to
day being watched by mill owners and
workers everywhere, and by govern
ment experts who are amazed at its
results, was furnished by McGill.
He was relegated to "the forest
parish" by his church conference here
because his determination "to help
square Christain practices with mod­
ern industrial arid social needs" met
with orthodox disfavor. It was de­
signed as a subtle rebuke and punish­
ment.
But the Rev. McGill, who looks like
THE
FOREIGN LABOR NOT
OBSTACLE TO BE MET
nerican Manufacturers Unfamil
iar With Financial Methods
of Other Countries.
WASHINGTON, Jan. 13.—The
United States department of com­
merce,. in a report on "Our Share in
International Trade," explodes the
favorite bugaboo of antiunionists that
"American labor is too high priced
to compete with European cheap la­
bor."
The report is issued by the bureau
of foreign and domestic commerce,
connected with the department of
commerce. It discusses reasons why
American manufacturers are fiot.. a
factor in foreign trade. Among the
more prominent is "the unfamiliarity
of many of our bankers with the
methods of international finance," and
also because "of more profitable in­
vestments at home we have chosen
to invest here rather than abroad."
Schools Are Backward.
Another reason, which the report
declares to be "most discouraging,"
is that our schools and colleges seem
unable or unwilling to see the need
for training the youth to meet new
conditions. The report says that in
most schools "the language work is
inadequate and no opportunity is pro­
vided to acquire the requisite practi­
cal experience."
Big Prizes In Trade.
"The big prizes in foreign trade,"
continues the report, "is the public
and private developments of large
proportions, as, for example, the build­
ing of railroads, the construction of
public service plants, the improve­
ment of harbors and docks, the dig­
ging of canals and many others which
demand capitals in large amounts.
New countries are generally poor.
They look to older and richer coun­
tries to supply them with the capital
to make their improvements and to
develoip their resources. The country
which furnishes the capital usually
sella the materials and do^lji^ jyork^.
In the last ^analysis ft comes-to this'
The country that wants the business
must finance the purchases, since the
improvemets will be made and the
materials paid for out of the money
loaned."
Sunday will be "Industrial Rela­
tions Day." At the meeting of the
Federated Trades and Labor Assem­
bly to be held tonight at Owls' hall
a communication will be read from
Frank P. Walsh, chairman of the
committee cn industrial relations,
urging all Duluth labor unions to
observe the next meeting following
the receipt of his letter as a day to
study and review the Walsh report
to congress on industrial relations.
Mr. Walsh has written to each of
the 674 central labor bodies in the
country asking them to keep alive
the work of the federal commission
a prize fighter has the Energy of a
steam roller, and is more at home in
a bunkhouse than at a parish recep­
tion, regarded the move ajp.a promo­
tion, even though the church cut. off
his salary.
VOL. 23. NO. 22. DULUTH AND SUPERIOR, JANUARY 15,1916.
E
Federal Bureau of Foreign and
Domestic Commerce Refutes
Anti-Union Bugaboo.
WALSH URGES ALL DULUTH
UNIONS TO ENDORSE REPORT
Chairman of Federal Commission On Industrial Relations
Pleads With Zenith City Workingmen to Keep Alive
the Work He and Colleagues Started.
The establishment of th6 co-opera­
tive shingle plants of the Northwest
was the result. Wherever saws hum
and axes ring—in hundreds of timber
camps and mill towns—Preacher Mc­
Gill is a respected pal of the men in
mackinaw and jumper.
It began in Olympia, State capital,
this logger pastor's industrial adven­
ture, where he converted the debts
and despair of twenty idle shingle
weavers into assets and productivity.
Ijabor Made It Pay.
A $40,000 shingle plant had been
closed because the owner could not
run it at a prbfit. Shingle production,
because of market conditions, was at
low ebb. Everywhere the owners were
giving up.
Then McGill appeared. Learning
that the mill could be rented at a low
figure, he called the unemployed
workers together to discuss co-opera­
tion.
About 3,000 was necessary to buy
logs to start up. But not a man in
the crowd had a dollar. Worse still,
practically every shingle weaver there
owed bills for food and merchandise
Th^y had no further credit^ Raise
$3,000 cash? That was indeed funny!
But they did get the $3,.000 in just
four days.
The shingle mill started, and Is to­
day putting out record production.
The men are making a comfortable
and make the most of this endorse­
ment by a government body of the
principles of organized labor.
Resolutions, should be adopted call­
ing on congress to order the print­
ing of the report local committees
on industrial relations should be ap­
pointed in each city to work with
the central committee in Washing­
ton and funds should be asked to
finance the work of agitation and
education which Walsh's committee
has begun.
Pamphlets containing the most im­
portant parts of the report will be
(Continued on Page 6.)
living. By the end of their fiscal
year they Tyill have paid back their
debt, with interest, and wlil have a
surplus.
And there wasn't a cent of charity
in the whole transaction. Nor did a
dollar equally change hands.
"How can we hope to make a suc­
cess of a shingle plant which its
owner, a practical mill operator, had
to shut down as a lojsing proposi­
tion?"
It was with such doubt that the
former employes of the McCann mill
at Olympia, Wash., faced the raising
Of $3,000 cash-to operate the estab­
lishment on a co-operative basis.
This is today one of a dozen such
mills being run in the State of Wash­
ington by former employes, with
marked success.
SfcGflTs Logic Won.
"I'll tell you how," encouraged Mc
Cill.
"As employes you received a stated
scale of wages. Your employer could
not cut them, no matter what the
condition of business. Wh,en he
couldn't or wouldn't meet a payroll
he had to shut down.
"But now, as co-operative mana­
ger-workers of the mill, you will buy
your materials first, for cash set
aside a fund 'to meet your debt, and
afterward divide whatever is left
among all. This may be 91 each,
or $10, according to conditions. When
times are good you make a betterr
profit. When they are slow you may
make a bare living.
"But you will make a living. It is
better than idleness, even if you can
.. •. ..,' *£$%& vorP w-
Those Duluth citizens who Are desirous of keeping:
the old armory for the people's use have been given an.
early taste of the kind of opposition they are to meet
with when the proposed ordinance goes to the people.
Their position will be ridiculed and misrepresented, and^
the Herald, the chief defender of the sale of the armory,
with its well known tactics, will be found in its old
time place throwing dust in the eyes of the people.
Its first effort is to attempt to discredit The Labors
World and to question its motive in opposing the sale'
of the armory property. That's an old game of the
Herald when it is short of argument to meet an issue. I
Like Mayor Prince it seems to fear the judgment of the
people on this question. It pretends that the "expense
and annoyance" of a referendum election will be useless,
and then it artfully distorts ah editorial appearing in
the last issue of The Labor World to suit its own
deceptive and delusive purpose.
It is no pleasant duty to oppose the plans of such
a splendid organization as the Shriners or to appeal from
the judgment of the majority members of the city com­
mission who have voted to dispose of the armory for
less money than it originally cost the city to acquire
the property and construct the building.
Unfortunately The Labor World is the only news­
paper in Duluth to come out boldly against the sale of
the armory to private parties. We only wish the Herald
were with us, and we think it would be if our armory
was in Cleveland or some other distant city, and it was
advocated that the building be converted into a public
forum and great social center for the use of working
men. The Herald is usually mighty forward-looking on
things far away, where it is safe, but most times it
jumps the reservation when it meets them face to face
at home.
Now let us see about the expense of a referendum
election. We stated last week that a charter election
was soon to be held and the referendum election could
be held at the same time without any additional expense
to the people, save the cost of the additional time it
would take the judges of electioh to count the ballots.
The Labor World made this fact perfectly plain, but the
Herald, true to its time-worn cunning, ignores it. Why
does it not print the truth in this instance as it claims
to do in other instances?
Then there is the matter of annoyance. Oh mercy!
As if this seriously disturbed the editorial solicitude
of the Herald. If the armory ordinance goes to the
people it will be the first use of the referendum in Du­
luth on the petition of citizens who will not profit
financially by the outcome of the election. The Labor
World could not 'stop this referendum it it would,
on this issue today,
would be taken up tomorrow by a group of good citizens,
and the campaign would still be carried on even if every
newspaper in the city opposed it.
The Herald, usually alert, hasn't awakened to the
kAf,
",frii ^LT^i 1 Hi _____
FOB SOCIAL JUSTICE. ECONOMIC REFORM AND POLITICAL PROGRESS.
MEN WHO OPPOSE SALE GIVEN EARLY
TASTE OF OPPOSITIONUHEY ARE TO CONFRONT
DETROIT, Jan. 13.—Business
Agent Jones of thft Cigarmakers'
union told federation of labor dele­
gates that non-union cigar plants in
this city give certificates of "compe­
tency" after one year's work, instead
of six months, as formerly.
"A child works in a plaice of this
kind "for $1 a week," he said. "That
is, she gets that dollar a week if she
first works a year. At the end of
her year she is given back pay at the
rate of a dollar. During her appren­
ticeship she receives a certificate
each week which entitles her to a
dollar for each certificate at the end
of the year. Tet some men smoke
the product of these places, though
they could get excellent cigars made
under union and humane condi­
tions."
'LOGGER PREACHER' TEACHES SHINGLE WEAVERS VALUE OF CO-OPERATION
pay yourselves but half of what you
earned as employed workers."
And so, after much persuasion by
McGill, they pooled their faiths and
doubts and went out to* get the
necessary cash to buy a first supply
of logs for shingles.
McGill had learned that a banker
would advance the men the $3,000 on
their personal note of $150 each, pro­
vided they were indorsed by mer­
chants.
Audaciously, "McGill went to the
very merchant? to .whom the shingle
workers owed money.
"No one in the world," he told the
prospective co-operatbrs, "is so deeply
interested in seeing you get and keep
good jobs in this city and remain here
as producers' of wealth as these very
creditors."
They Extended Credit..
It meant the extension of-further
credit, and a risk of $150 each to
boot. But this mill, when ^running,
had always put about $6,000 a month
into circulation among Olympia busi­
ness men. The' merchants were los­
ing just that much by having the
mill idle.
In just four days the grocerymen,
butchers, bakers and landlords to
whom the idle shltyglemen owed
money had indorsed the notes for the
$3,000 loan.. The mill "got under way
co-operatively with twenty men.
"It was," said McGill, "a splendid
demonstration of faith linked,up with
business shrewdness: on the part of
the penniless men «.nd their sponsors
—of the faith that Is the fifth wheel
df all industry
^act that there is a tremendous public sentiment against
ithe sale of the armory. The Labor World Is flooded with
^letters from men In all walks of life urging us to hasten
|the petitions, and our telephones are in constant use
'Answering inquiries from every part of the city as to
^hen and where petitions may be signed. At least fifty
dmen have volunteered to get signatures, they to give
their services without cost, unselfishly and with no
possible profit in it to theta that will not accrue to every
jeltizen of Duluth.
And again, the Herald, eager to prejudice honest
Citizens against signing the referendum petition, and
•Without regard for the truth, attempts to couple The
j&abor World's position in advocating a separative
legislative body in our city government with our opposi­
tion to the sale of the armory. It practically states that
this paper is in favor of returning to the old ward
system. Its editor knows better. The Labor World
has never taken such a position since commission gov­
ernment came into being in Duluth.
We are, however, advocating that commission govern*
ment be strengthened by the addition of some legislative
members who will serve as a check against admin­
istrative extravagance. And we are in mighty good com­
pany when we champion such a change. This question
Was discussed quite seriously at the last meeting of the
Charter commission committee, and four of the five mem­
bers present declared themselves in favor of the
principle, and all, including the publisher of The Labor
World, expressed themselves in opposition to a return
tp the ward system.
The Herald wilfully or otherwise perverted a refer­
ence The Labor World made last week to the fact that
.tinder the old system it requires the votes of 11 out of
16 aldermen to deed away the people's property, while
under commission government as now constituted, city
property may be disposed of by but three out of five
(commissioners, a majority of but one. In the armory
ordinance three commissioners voted for the sale and
two opposed it. This fact alone would justify ten per
cent of the voters to appeal to the people.
As a climax to its artful and misleading editorial the
Herald advises "those who may be misled into joining
the hue and cry against the armory' sale to watch care­
fully to see what company they are keeping and where
it Is leading them." What child's play! Under com­
mission government or any other form The Labor World
would oppose the sale of the armory with all the strength
in its being.
This is not a new proposition with this paper. The
irmory is suited, as is no other building U| Pujttth, for
a, public forum, a great social center and a workingmen's
jfub. It -Is adapted for the things we standi for jright
Duluth. It is going, to take fe good, flght' to
save the armory for the people, but we are sure to win."
Arid when we shall have won we will appreciate the
old building and the institutions it will house ail the
more because, it took a good fight to get them.
1
According to A. Boose, 907 West
Michigan street, Duluth, and J. A.
McDonald, Bemidji, delegates of the
I. W. W., a movement is on foot to
call a big strike ef the lumberjacks
in northern Minnesota.
In a red hot letter that sizzles
with I. W.'W., lingo these proselytes
of "Mulligan stew," who glorify their
depravity in singing, "Hallelujah,
I'm a Bum," declare they already
have the "lumber barons on the
run." Here are a few of their char­
acteristic jibes:
"On the job there is no nationality.
Get all the nationalites fighting with
'"The greatest difficulty was to in­
spire the shingle weavers with confi­
dence in themselves, and to get them
to sign their own notes for $150 each.
"It was the first
Logs and all supplies are bought
for cash. For every 1,000 shingles
cut 5 cents is laid aside for a fund
to meet the notes, What is left is
divided equalley among the men.
Easy to Borrow Money.
The most amazing' feature of the,
co-operative shingle mill venture has
been their ability to borrow xiioney
without security.
This is one of the many things the
"wise men" said couldn't be done.
The mill at Anacortes, Wash., after
the plant had clpSed down was bought
on installements from the owner for
$25,000, without a penny having been
paid down.
The worker-managers merely pay
the relinquishing owner at the rate of
10 cents per thousand for all shingles
cut.
Over in Marysville, Wash., where
another shingle plant had closed be
cause of the owner's inability to op­
erate at a profit the weavers have
paid $10*000 rent for the present year,
•w»-«£ .v&T* ^7\- __
1
•Wist.
In a Letter Sizzling With Characteristic Lingo to the Tune of
Circulate Petitions Against Chief
Executive For Daring to Pro­
tect Striking Miners.
MINE OWNERS WOULD
PUNISH HONEST MAN
'Hallelujah, I'm a Bum,'' With''Mulligan Stew•' On
the Side, They Appeal to Lumberjack.
tftime
I or any of
them had ever realized that debt may
prove to be a positive asset."
This mill has now been operating
three months, has already made new
enthusiasm .of the weavers* and will,
at the present market price for shin­
gles,. continue to provide a comfort­
able living for its co-operative mana­
gers, as well as discharge the $3,000
debt by the end of the fiscal year.
Gov. George W. P. Hunt Is Target
of Men Who Could Not Use
Him To Crush Labor.
Will the mine owners of Arizona,
backed by the millions of Cleveland
H. Dodge, William Church OsbQrn,
ana other New Tork multi-million­
aires, accomplish the political ruin of
Governor George W. P. Hunt and de­
feat the strike of 5,000 copper miners?
Because Governor Hunt has dared
to treat the miners fairly and protect
them against an invasion of lawless
thugs and strikebreakers, the mine
owners are circulating petitions for
his recall and bitterly attacking him
through their subsidized press.
All Very Powerful.
The leading corporation involved in
the Clifton-Morenci strike is Phelps
Dodge and Company, of which James
Douglas is president, Cleveland H.
Dodge vice president, and William
Church Osborn a director. The com­
pany in 1912 earned 23 per cent on
its capital of $45,000,000, and paid a
15 per cent dividend. Today copper
is higher than at any time in nine
years, yet the company refuses to
grant its men a wage increase or to
make any' concession. The principal
property of the company at Clifton
paid in 1912 a dividend of 146-% per
cent on »a capital of $1,000,000.
Governor Hunt's refusal to permit
the importation of gun men and strike
breakers has attracted wide attention.
It has furnished a striking contrast
with the policy of Governor Amnions
in Colorado, where the Rockefeller
interests coerced the Governor and
obtained the use of the state militia
for escorting strike breakers.
Not Like Colorado.
Whereas Colorado became the scene
of the worst strike 'Violence seen -in
this country in many, years. Governor
Hunt's policy has prevented" ail vio­
lence in Arizona. Strikers* themselves
are maintaining order in the mining
towns, and several of' their number
.have been sworn in as deputy sheriffs.
Instead of prostituting1"himself to the
mine owners," the shferfft has ,"been:.ac­
tive in distributing' supplies -to. the
families of the strikers, and the state
militia are engaged in protecting the
(Continued on Page 2.)
/. W.
W. ORGANIZERS THREATEN
TO CALL BIG LUMBER STRIKE
us. We are all workingman the
only foreigner is the boss lets fight
him.
"The price of lumber is going up
and these cut-throat lumber com­
pany hogs won't pay any more
money. This damned robbery will
have to stop.
"Not all the lumberjacks are
needed. We must have one out of
every five to form the neuclus of
strikers and to successfully carry on
a strike. Thl I. W. w., and One
Big Union, that's it.
"The immense advantage is that
(Continued on Page 6.)
and in addition are purchasing it at
a percentage of the "cut basis."
These men had no security except
their proved Integrity.
They were* however, able to bor­
row sufficient money from the bank
to purchase logs when the owner was
unable to borrow the money.
This has proved a common occur­
rence in the spread' of the co-opera
tive shingle mill wave here.
Perhaps the reason is that labor'
troubles are eliminated in 4he mills
where the workers are the virtual or
actual owners.
Perhaps it lies in the fact that the
co-operative workers put out finer
shingles and more per day, than they
ever did as mere- employes.
They Own Their. Jobs.
Perhaps it's because the mills are
operated at a lower'rate'Of deprecia­
tion on machinery, a more careful
utilization of' timber.
And no doubt it is' prirtiy because
the energies of a worker, elevated to
a responsible share iii a company's
production and. profits have proved a
sure foundation to a substantial busi­
ness.
"It is," commented McGill, a sig­
nificant comentary on the industrial
situation when workers have been
able to. do what employers couldn't"
In EVerett, Wash., fifty shingle
weaverta who run a mill are earning
more than the
former
'scale of wages,
ranging from $3.5Q to
.$8,
according to
the Job.
A 20-cent rise in the shingle mar­
ket recently -added an extra $1.50 per
d&y to, practically- every partner, in
___
ia long as nianklno shall eootttue
to bestow more liberal applause on
their destroyers than on their bene­
factors, the thirst ,of military glorj
will .ever be the vice of exalted
characters.
TWO CENTS.
1
Big Business Would Use Military
Discipline To Improve
Wage Earners.
HOLDS IT NECESSABY
TO GET FOBEIGN TRADE
Rockefeller-Morgan Interests
To Cheapen Labor Cost of
American Goods.
Military training as a means of dis­
ciplining the workers and making
them more useful to the corporations
is the latest idea put forward by the
National City (Rockefeller) Bank of
New York, in the publications with
which it is flooding the country.
This is the bank whose president,
F. A. Vanderlip, has organized a fifty
million dollar corporation to exploit
foreign markets and the natural re­
sources of foreign lands.
Attention already has been called
to the campaign of the Rockefeller
bank for unrestricted immigration and
low wages, in order that American
employers may undersell foreign com­
petitors in foreign markets and so
establish a commercial world empire.
Looks Good To Them.
In the Issue of "The American,"
just published by the Bank, appears
a leading article urging a "super-or
.ganization of industry," under private
control, as'the best means of coping
with European competition. The Bank
says: •.
"It is hardly necessary for any­
body to advise that something of the
idea of the German super-organization
of industry ought to be attempted
here since it seems to be coming
along naturally. There appears to' be
a more liberal disposition, both of­
ficial and popular, toward co-opera­
tion in business activities today than
during the time when discipline and
tribulation for corporations was the
indiscriminate order of the day. The
federal Trade Commission has just
entered upon a gigantic questionaire'
of business men all over the country
regarding permissable' combination in
foreign trade. The commission's at­
titude is friendly. Manufacturers in
several' lines are so' confident of full
liberty to co-ordinate their efforts in
going after export business that they
are establishing fqrmal selling com­
binations. for the purpose."
Wiuits Low i^tfjor Oost.
Biit part of the Wall Street scheme
for-a ''super-organization of industry"
is its insistence on low labor costs
The worker and producer are not to
share in the benefits.- They must be
"reasonable," and get their reward in
the knowledge that American business
is supreme. Incidently they must
support a huge army and navy to
protect foreign investments.
That the Rockefeller interests and
the Morgan interests are working
hand in hand in their campaign for
foreign exploitation, is shown by the
Gary dinner to Theodore Roosevelt,
at which, according to "Holland," the
well-known financial writer, foreign
trade wa» principally discussed. It
is shown also by the assertion of
George W. Perkins that the industry ...
of this country must be Germanized,
in order to confpete in the markers
of the world.
Producer. Not Considered.
The flaw in the Rockefeller-Morgan
plan is its ignoring of the producer.
He is not to share in the benefits.
Instead, labor costs are to be kept'
low, and therefore immigration is, to
be encouraged.
Here is the Bank's new argument
for a big army and navy:
"A basic element in the industrial
organization of any country is,- of,
course, the individual •efficiency Of
workmen. Dr. Karl Heliferich,. who
(Continued on Page 2.)
these co-operative plants, and if -the
market continues to hold, many mills
on which "the workers have now op­
tions will be converted into mutual
concerns.
1
The men who are most active In
these plants are the workers whose
unions the lumbermen smashed when
cuts in wages were resisted with
strikes.
When they .were once regarded as
next to bums, they are now. the re
spected men of the community.
"All this merely shows that the
social application of Christianity can
do for men," says the logger preacher,
who is now at the head of the selling
agenty of these co-operative shingle.
mills though still-retaining his forest
pastorate as an. accredited member ,of
his church.
Merit'Counts On Jobs.
"Every stockholderrworker must
hold his job on merit alone. And this
is' but one detail by which the shingle
men's mills have fortified themselves
against the pitfalls of other co-opera­
tive ventures.
"The selling agency, supported by'
a tithe of 1 cent per 1,000 shingles::
cut in every mill, has thus far readily,
disposed, of all the output. It Is also?
buying supplies for the mill workers'
families in wholesale lots, and has cut -f.
the cost of Hying as well
'•2
I
•T
4
CUB.the,
cost
of working, materially." vk
McGill and the shingle wbrkerrffg|l
make no claim. of .'Utopia for their
experiment) But it will be something,.^
for other tollers'to watch carefullyr-ffl^
this idustrial adventftre of a logfer»?^||p
preacher with, a vision.
-Jk
