Jstm.
GREATEST CITY STILL RURAL.
Free common for cowa on Manhattan
Island and the financial district at night
show a city of marvellous contrasts.
IN THE SUN TO-MORROW.
THE WEATHER
Fair, continndd coldi
tomorrow
Highest tempenrture ye
Detaiksl rather, mfl and id.
PRICE TWdHlENTS.
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 137.
NEW YORK, SATURDAY, JANUARY 15, 1916. Copiriphf, bV the Sim PrlnHnr, osd Mtrw.; it.MclnMo.
5?ae Insists on War;
Wilson Won ft Intervene;
Carranza to End Outrages
Cabinet Decides to Give First Chief Chance to Capture
Handits Bitterest Assault Yet Made in Senate
on Mexican Policy.
NEED AN ARMY $150,000,000 !6. 0. P. CHIEFS
VON PAPERS PAPERS SHOW
HE PAID DYNAMITERS WITH
GERMAN EMBASSY FUNDS
OF 200,000 TO
PACIFYMEXIG0
MERGER OF BIG
OIL COMPANIES
IN CONVENTION
HERE FEB. 15
State Committee Acts in
Secret -Hoot and Wnds
worth to lie Chairmen.
CARRANZA WILL OPPOSE ANY INTERVENTION
tS one of the biUcrcs.1 debutes yet in Congress on the Mexican situation
1 President Wilson's policy was severely assailed.
Senator Works of California offered a resolution for armed Interven
tion. .
Senator Fall of New Mexico took up the cudgels and flayed the
Tretiiient's not since the "war on Vera Cruz."
Senator I.odire was a sarcastic interrupter in the debates, on the
fide of the war advocates.
Senator Stone pleaded to let the President decide what to do in
Mexico.
Military Experts Figure In-1 Mexican Petroleum Co.,
tervention Would Cost j With Large Production.
Enormous Sum. ' Heads New Concern.
THREE PLANS ARE NOWi WELLS IX CALIFORNIA WILL NAME DELEGATES
IJEIXU CONSIDERED' AND MEXICO OWNED1 TO CHICAGO POWWOW
WabIIINOTOK. .Tnn. 14. In spite of the
many disastrous chutigfH Mexico has
undercone sine the overthrow of the
Dlnz regime, military experts of the
Details rur the formation of u 1150,
000,000 ull morgcr, headed by the Mexi
can Petroleum Company, hnve been vir
tually completed except for the forninl
i'nii.,1 slime, wi... nre studv Ing the I signing of the contract. The unialga-
nmblem Insist that the pacification of Illation Is one of the largest In oil deals i 0f Having been prepared In detail Ion
.!, mi,.,ti-,. cni.ld not be accomplished ! that has been put through since the . before the committeemen gathered. The
eatlsfactoilly with lew. than 2"0.000 men. original Standard Oil Company with Its
Inipoverltdied underlying subsidiary concerns was
The Itepubllcan rftnlo committee met
at the Krpublican Club yesterday and
pul through a programme for an un
otllclal State convention on February 13
In this cltv that had all the earmarks
Dcmncnts forced nn adjournment of the Senate till Monday to check! (hf ,,,,.,. ropUi,iic, it has brought to. foimed, The success of the negotiations,
the debate over the Mexican situation
Army experts figure that it would take an army of 200,000 men at
sn enormous cost to pacify Mexico.
President Wilson and Cabinet decided to continue the policy of
mtehful waiting.
After riot.s at El Paso, between Mexicans and United States soldiers
nnd civilians, troops stopped the trouble.
The fnrrnnzistns insist that Gen. Jose Rodriguez was captured and
executed. They are shipping his body to the border to prove it.
A masncrc of Americans in the Tampico district of Mexico is de
clare! probable by one of the largest oil producers of that region, who
ji on a business visit in this city.
(icn. Iiuerta was interred in a vault at El Paso without funeral
fcrwe-! other than a simple prayer. The body will be taken to Mexico
latei.
hands of nun Brown old nt the task
showed in th- transaction of routine
buslnes.i, mill when matters not pre
vlouly discussed unexpectedly came up
for consideration a like etllclency was
the people ctitnln military advantages o.n ,,
.... ee.i nlv thrnuirh ex-1 weeks. " uttrlbute.1 In the flrunclnl dls-
pcrlence The men who have been en-. f'ct to 12. I.. Dohcny, president of the jlf),.iu.d ,n r.ifKa,n8 tum to the icar.
KaKed In revolutionary activity are vet- Mexican Peti oleum Company. ,,rom ro.ivcisatloi.H here and there
eians In .heir peculiar Kind of warfare.' Two big companies which wll. join In wll mrn uclcveJ , Unow what Is
..... fli MiftiTctr nt mil' nr. tlu- AmmiciUICU ...... i ...n...... n tV.la. .itiarno.
kimw Hi rnmitrv U which me " ' , wwiik pimr in inrnm
,a ,. ,..t,UI, d 1 n.D.,U rMitilrnllixl
Thry
llatitliic would . tlono.
a,., k U... Il,.ln. II llr.i .rl riiiil
aoapteo I emwi ... " "nrob I the fnlon Oil Company. Several smaller
field. Their losses In resource are prob- ....
tei- mis ulealud the Informatlwi that on
January .". c iluln men much intercnted
In the fortunes of the Itepubllcan My
met at the Hotel Manhattan and decided
not only that the convention should be
I I... ...... tu.l.j ..ict.1.lr...1 tiv tli
ably mote than off-t by what they:"-""
2tt In military experience. I orsanliers of the consolidation. The
For this reanoii American army olllcers I California Petroleum Company win noi . M n ,.arn(,B,. na on t1(. nsi,t cf
who hae come In contact u mi inem on j,c Ilciuded at present, but may votnc j.ViiruHrv 1S ml. ay ,,.lt i:ihu Hoot I
t .1.. .A iki.. ritiliilfili fnftf frill ... 1
ine uunirr ir .'i , (n lat,.ri lt !, r,ir,.,i on the MKlifMl au-
Mexican soioier 01 iu-u.ij i mu. m mw.rj
t formidable as a ilnhllntc unit than he was
VON PAPEN GOT EMBASSY MONEY TO
USE IN "WAR INTELLIGENCE" WORK
Von I'apcn documents show:
That the Oermnn Mllltnry Attache
paid $700 to Werner Horn, who blew
up the Canadian J'ucinc bridge ut St.
Croix, Me., a few days previous to
that outrane;
That he paid $100 to Anton Kuep
ferle, a Uerman py who committed
sulrldo 111 nn KokIIhIi Jail. I11 lot
Kuepferle left tho United States;
That moneyx were paid from Von
l'npen's bank accounts Just previous
to dynamite outranes In the I'nlted
States to persons In the localities
where these outrages wer com
mltted;
Tnat lilfl bank accounts were re
plenlshed by the (iernun Ktnlas.,
at WashliiBtoti, the money belni; fur
nished for "war Intelligence woik 1
Capt. von I'apen protested to the
American Kmbussy In Imdon that
the selur. of his papers was a vio
lation of the safe conduct irlven to UJ
mm. ine uritlsn otnclals took the i
stand that this safe conduct applied ixivnciit C. n-llnt.
only to his person, not his papers. Capt. von Papen.
ippp WW
; 'iciiKs Witt '
Doi'iniicnls Ikitisli Seized
Arc Turned Over to U. S.
Authorities.
HORN. WHO ItLEW I V
BRIDGE. GOT $70l
j $100 Given to Kuepferle.
Who Killed Himself in
London Prison.
LETTERS CONTAIN
INSULTS TO U. S.
SENATE AGAIN DEMANDS
ARMY GO INTO MEXICO
live years ntco, or btforo the revolution
besan.
I. net. I iik In Aniiiiunllloii..
In only one respect nre they likely
to be at a disadvantage. That ! the
aek of ammunition. The ralslm; of the
should be temnorarv chairman and that !
thorlty. .It Is U-lierd that ol.ee the i rnl1 Sl,lt0 Senator James W. Wads. !
meiKer I- put throUh the 132 or inula j .,., :)luU, bc permanent chair-1
iialependtnl oil muipanies uperatim: In
California ami along the l-aoltlc coast. 'Th(i(v ,,.,.,, hiu be(.n al I
will Join the orir.iiUation. "
The n.'W company will ! known as 1 '! .onferenc- ei William Harnes.
the J'an-.Mnerlcan IVtroleum and Trail- I Jr., William I.. Ward, Francis lleii'
FRENCH SUBM A RINE SINKS
AN AUSTRIAN CRUISER
embargo for a time ha enabled them 'sit Company and will hae outstanding 1 arlcks. tieorge W. Aldrlch. Senator
ti flllMiTO.S, .Inn. M Word was I degree retpoiislble and have complained
. . tlAi......... .... .11.1 .in, I,
rnehril lifre tn-nlihl thai ,norrr .", ' . . .. .
I.snli. the Carraiwa Consul timerHl at
1 1 Pa.i.. had lued u stuleinmt signed
H 1. 111. I urranii. deelarliiB that lite
lrt idrf would iml cmient to Ameri
cans iiv.lstlr.K hl truops lit captiirliitf
tbr hanillls and would uiipiise an) In.
alini li) Amrrlcans of .Mexican terrl-Ut).
WsiMiToN. .Ian. H. Another de
mand wu voiced In the Senate to-day
for Intervention In Mexico. Senator
Works of California, ' who usually is
to sure a falrlv adequate supply ot
tlrearius, It was olwrvert In the
llBhtlns alontr the border that the run
teiidlnic fon-es had much :irtlller.x. Mime
of It helm: Krenoh aims of a very
iVn.niU viiln un.) V.uti.ii3 woris hit. modern type. The MexloaiiH also dls
(lu0,0UU,U(ni 111 rlcic'K and bonds. It Is
uenei-ais Mia ami .ap.ua were 011- "-. h . , . .i,.,,,. ,.,i11.,i,
terly opposed to the recognition of Car- ' played so:n l.iKcnulty In manufacturing I I supplied b a Htr.111. sjiidn..le
I t A V. I y-v..
i... .1 -.1 11 .11 niuv VGirii iV ni.n I ih i'tifr.tn u ri-. a rm a
eftltnalc.1 that Jli'J.liev.UMO will be ".s"i. , .-..tw - uu vaiuiiu, VIILMC i C'UlUIl f 1UUI
iinsled to put throiiKli the mcrner, and Uthei nam-s cie suggented, hut the
this amount has already been .ui..iiki.I . ,,! not include that of I'rederlck
for. Unly .;o.u0.ou.l will 1 be needl at . Tanner, toe Slate chairman, alls
. nss. n twi fiiftlft lit 1 11 1 St. .1.11 Of I. (HI ll Will 1
I iJiiv.1 n U . inlllKT o
Concentrates, Successful Dual Monarchy's Troops
Capture Cettinje Aim at Albania.
r.'inia and resentful of It. The Villa
forces were dissipated In lame measure
and he disappeared Into the mountains
of Chihuahua, with a comparatlely
una 1 1 band operating with him.
"Can we doubt for n moment that
these people who ale now open and law
less bandits roaming oer the mountains
ajid pushing down on the plains when
opportunity offers will commit depre
dations? Can we doubt that Villa and
Zapata will resort to any kind of law
lessness, making It as bad s possible
with the hope of embroiling the United
States In a quarrel with the new Car
ranza CJov.'rnment. which they w.iuld do
anything to overthrow'
Now heie are resolutions that look
tin advocate of ik.-ucu. presented a
solution directing lb l'lesldiut to
. ' ...... uM- tn ... .., ..... n I..' .. .la... ..t f....
" . gnss bc.au.e of thee one or tw.i un-
. ... ... nii,.u ...1 wi. en. I fortunate Incidents that we had every
Tho debate- which followed w.w sen- I Tvuiim I( linUOi,Mlei u u M(.n) U) .
utional. .Senator fclonc, cliuliman 01 ,hli) ((t Um w,u,n wj M t( r))
,h i.-. ..luii Hidatlons Coium.llee. llll-
...... a. I.. (I... i.!lhtl1tll.l hIw.iui nt lh
Southern I'aclflo llallioad. j ""' ' hr -'erKer.
Thete are nbo aisenals faltly well. Tile iimpeitles to b taken oer will
equipped, which might be ued to fur-'h.ic the option of going into the com
nleh a small supply of ammunition. , bine either lor rash or for slock In the
It Is pmbable. however, that at the iw cumpaii) ltoth majority share
present time then- Is not enough ammu-' holders and mlnorlt Intiiests In the
nltlon In the country and not enough various companies will -ecee the saint
could be obtained to carry on defenttlve price for the present holdings and w.ll
oiieratlous of any magnitude In the , be allowed to lurtu ipali- In the merger
f.ice of a well equipped invading army, on the same terms.
Hut olllcers of the lleneral Stan of
standing with the Itepuhllcan leaders
jti.l Itlu t.'.tnu U.l . .. ,.f ,lt..le r.iUr..l....a
I were drawn from the f..cl that until .-!
terd.iy .Mi. Tanner helleed that the
late convention would be held on Keb-1
luaiy ;j or I. bruary
Mate city.
The Colonel n n I'litliler.
Another , hit of gosip that tt.ckled
tliiough the lorrldoix o( the Itepubllcan
The Mexican I'etiol. uni Compiny was Club was that at the now famous Clary
SKd,l CabU Dttc (? lex .Jects u.uler th-ir prote. tlo. of the
lai.MMjN, Jan. 14. The fall of Cot- search of the consular archiv.s which
tlnje. Hie capital of Montenegro. Into "Jo the ni.Iegus of imlnlabllitv.
lniMni.ir.iiNl In li.liiware in I'JMT to own. dinner 011 1 iccembir 17, when Col. House
acquire and operate petroleum and other! tlt was the guest of honor, the Colonel
lands In any part ot the L'nlted States was asked wh.,t he thought he could d')
time when we ought to em
our (lovei-nmenl in war with
11 iiieut with Senators who talked lor Mexico. Wu ought now to aid so far
.n.,.,vnti,m. sncucsttd thtie were 'u s we can the Carr;
broil
anza (lovernment to
IlimiClim ....--- ----- !,.!, ,,, . ..-.I.,..
U people "'W, to malniain Its authoVlty ami to Jo aii
heated and whose bialna Dctume , tha ri,Hpoll!()1)lc KOVt.rmn,.Ilt
diteascd by the fever of war. a expected to do.
Sena' y. Kull of New Mexico, Ke- "Ara we rolng to cooperate froTi the
pjbuan, Intimated broadly thut Uen. , door of the Senate with Villa or Zanata
iiuerta. who dleu 1.11 nigi".
or any one else to embairns: or ovei
turn this Clovernment before It has had
a chance to demonstrate what It can do?
This of all 1 1 lien is the time whfn wo
ought not to move In that direction.
"1 do not know what may develop In
the future, hut I ay It Is most Inoppor
tune to pre a question of this kind. It
In
1.1.I, w lineal several senators
i'.anil shocked.
Sena or Kull made the charge that
.he Anuncali lorccs at Vera Cruz
. re foi ced to withdraw ut the de
1., ... 1 ,.r Cien. Carranza au.l at the
,, , ,, u wun. lie prcnicte.i inai us uphold the hands or the J'resldent,
wain 11. v I'reslilent tent to the Senate who I trlng to do everything he can
1, . .rn i.oii.leiice und daU called for through Mexican Instrumentalities ana
in .. res '.utlon they would how that our, an order
tl.. tn. 11111 & went to Vera Cruz curry- , ,.Jf ,hU h (o ,)e part-(l!lrl we
.1.. nth ll.m their death w.irtanu. nre K,B into ami if the l'reildent de
lii 1 i-e of the orders that were Issued j hitvlX ,,,ly ,,oltlcs with a great In
lu I' .in by the navy authorities. ternatlonal policy. Iniolvln? so iimich of
1 life and hope and possibility of develop-
Tull.s fur Wilson. incnta. If he weie capable of It, prob-
' olilv Ine lisl tlllncr flint rniil.l lvinii.ii In
of which Is owned In fee and the bal
ance under leases extending 111 inosi
ears. I he
ptopcilles are geogr.iphlcall illM.lid into I're'.d. nt Wlls .11.
the army believe that the huk of am
munition In Mexico Is not likely to play
an a1efulta , leirr In : rnnrnnli'ii In
that country .. It would, for example. ! ur -Mexico. 11 a.-o nas ...e r.gn. .0 ...
In such warfare as Is now helns car-' ';'""r" nn'' ,'"1 "" 1,
rle,l on In Kurope. for the reason that ' 0 h,'r V,,"''(:r"t"'"s "i i "-V ' , .
,., '1,.' .,.,.,,1,1 , ;'mI. nbotit I'.ilO.oi'O acres of :.iihl. ... p. rcent.
of the clash of opposing arinlis. but
m , , in .... "'.iiiuiii ,,tT , tem-lne
"111 i' 11 rwmiviri 41 iiniii tin- iiii'uiiCfitui!
iiiiu uifi'ii riMimry nouni aiioru iu .,.- rv, i .,f ih.. m i., t,..., uir, , ....
till I III" hMMII". M liw p..- .'... - .... 9tt III.V " MM till II J'lll J"'-r U UllXlf,
nimieraiiie lini.ng places. I'etroleum Company of California ex- tr convention a platfoi m that will give
Tafl llstlimile llluli tenJ fr'"" llf"en miles west of a ringing sound to the keynote of the
' Tampico, Mex.io. to about llfty miles oiiiiim camp ugu the committeeman sat
it was I'stimaieo ny oincers or ine wes-t or that cit. eoinpriMiu ao .ui ii.u,
(ieiieral Staff during the Administration, ouO actes. The e.ond groiip N owned
of President T.ift that the paclllcatlou j or controlled ay the Hu.isI.tm ivtioleum
of Mexico would lequlre .'iOU.oOO men 1 Company, the Tuxpm Petroleum Coin
und tt.0mi.tHUi a day for two years. This J pany and the Tam'.aliui Petroleum Com.
was probably an extreme estimate pany. making about 150,000 acres.
Hut army officers to-day who have The principal deielopmeniH consist of
given close study to the situation are , tw. nt, -six completed oil wells, with a
not disposed to think the task could be I production of 'I'.OO'I bariels of oil a day'
accomplished with less than snn.nnu men I railroad lines pipe lines, tanks with a
storage capai.t) of 10,000,0011 parrels
and considerable land around T.unpL.i
1 quireo 10 (vmiroi ine enure country. 1 naroor.
The company has authorized Hs.ooo.
coo toinmon M.K-k and M'.'.ooo.OoO S
per cert non.cuniuhit ve pieferred (if
tins there Is outstanding 13 ,.t.3'.',o(iii
common -tin! J 1 1.ooii.ooi) piefeired
In some up- AajMrlan hands, and the sinking of an
Austrian cruiser by a Trench submarine,
off Cattaro, were to-day's outstanding
dcvlopments In tho Halkans.
With the doom of Montenegm sealed
military experts believe that the Teu
tons, with the aid of Bulgaria, will now
concentrate their efforts on the complete
submission of Albania and the control
of the Adriatic, thus to safeguanl the
drive on Snloulca against all Hunk at
tack". The olllii.il piess buieau's statement
in li'H'i and his nvt was tli.it he "could
give 'em a good fight," ills friends at
tabic ale sold to lia.c told him that A
that was a!' he, had to oil. 1 he had let
ter quit, because this year was no year
f ir ilghtiiu' Mid eveijlocl. oa.hi to et
In and help along the scheme to oust on the sinking of In. Aiistr.m cruiser,
down hard veMerday 011 a resolution
Upon the subject of prep II i-dlless. No
one wanted to deaden the resounding
qualities of the pieparediicss plank that
will be featured In the platfonn of lVb
ruiiry IS by sending out a tinkle at pres.
int. more especially as the resolution
offered might in some qua iters have
which wss of lis- Novara !pe, follows
Tile Italian Naval Minister ropm Is
that the French submarine Fou.ault
has sunk an Austr.an cruiser near
Cattaro.
Austria hus four stout cruisers of
the Nova! a type, the others being the
Helgoland, Salda and Admiral Spauu
They have a .llplaci nient of 3.3M t ms
und carr.v in their armament two in
lull tois'do tubes and nine 3 ' inch
lie-,, acts not lllllv I'Otl.t.tlM.,
s. rlous encioachmeiit on the eoverclgn
r.ghts of a mutial Slate. ,t, ronlllct
with tile rudimentary, gener.illv well
maintain) d principles of International
law. hut are also directly opposed to
Austria's rights anil Interests.
"They can only be ilescrlbul as .11 hi-
ir.uj nets, vieatly traiiiessng the
limits prescribed for belllgeicuts bv Jus
tice and tia.Ulli.ii. This piooedlng once
ne-ie iiliu-t ,nes onlj too consp.cuouslv
the fait thai Frame ami (ileal Itilt
aln do 1101 shrink from acts obviously
iHMrinir t.'e stigni.i r in, xi'us.ible vio
lation of nght. ,
"The Au-iro-lliiiig-ai Ian ilnv.ii-iineii:
r.seivix for :tseir 1,1.. right of lakhu
iisMsui-s 11. i thud: In aciordaiice
with fiittli. r nnasuies tii'e I..wer may
take wilh lev;.,., 1 f tl,,. p, (.oners ron'
l erilei "
GERMANY ANNOUNCES
POLICY OF REPRISAL
him and the Democratic party would be
to Ueclaro war with Mexico, and with
Ihirope too.
Wnr Iu Wilson's Favor,
"If such wars were raging In Novem
tier the chancen of his reelection would
be augmented a hundredfold. It would
bo a certainty. Hut the President hap
pily Is not built that way. He will not
I ding great questions of this kind Into
Moiic
s. .,'0 Stone made u long una
rhi appeal for support for the
lii-.K 111 ami urged that polltlcn be
kit ' it of the discils-sioti of the Mexi
co s u,i", m. lie chilled Senutors for
1. war ami intervention ut lires
e lie lagged that the Ournuizu
(J. rtrmiiit be given n chunce to
irne . s willlngniss und rnimclty to
ni.it. . Vnierlenu life ami Iiropetty.
. . Lodge called attention to a I the mire of party polities and I am here t0" considered doubtful.
.-.-. 1... Ini.,. rifd nn i tn .iir.,H Ih. ln imd Hen, p.tn.. ni nn 1
'11 Wnill 11" III.."-""... .... v.iui,
' '.'ill which if passed would 1 that the American people are behind him
i-nllcl'thi. use of the armed In hl effort to preserve pe ice ami peace-
., . . l nll..,l Kl.lt.sl III Mexico, "'" " ."I. ooe.., SUV
and possibly many more. It Is esti
mated 'hat :n0,000 at least would he re
quired to ivmtrol the entire country. I
How many more than that would he
necessary would ibpeiid on the attitude
of the. Mexicans, whether they would ,
accept the situation and confess defeat
or prolong the fighting Indellultely
Iti arriving at these tl.tures the mill- I
tary experts of course consider any con- I
tlngeucy and assume that lt would be ,
necessary to sweep the country from the
Hlo lirande to the southern border In
preparing for Intervention, however,
there are various elements to he consid
ered and various plans of action to be
decided upon.
The most Important question that
would confront the 1'iiltcd States If It
decided to act would be whether It could
do so with the acquiescence of (ien. Car
ranza, or whether he as well as Panrho
Villa and the other scattered revolu
tionary lead, is are to be counted as op
been Interpreted as uu Indorsement of , " , ., .....
ihe i,i.. i f i.i,isH.n. .. i li, 1 Karller Iu the afternoon the Austrian
Wilson has set befoie Congress,
I '! tin it ! lo He In Comlilnr.
The. Associated nil Company wan In.
corHiiatsl In California in 1001 and Is I
controlled by the Southern Pacific Com
pan thi'Uigh the ownership of Kn,l'.'.-1
000 of Its JIP.oiMi.OiiO capital stuck. The'
conipan.v holds In fee and tluough leasci I
'.'O.ris:, acres of land These fields have 1
an estimated minimum piodnrtion of
Cftr,.S.",o.Oii0 barrels. The company con
trols twelve other companies, amoim
w hich ate petroleum eo n;i inles, water I
companies, Iron works and development
con.ei its
The I'nlon nil Company was Incorisi
Tin lesoliition as offeied bv Frederick
1 t. Klrburn of Malono without, as he ex-
i plained, consultation with any one, was
as follows:
A'CioIird, That the Itipubllc.in State
committee of the Slate of New Voik
appioies of the proposition to prepare
adiquately the country for dt fence
I against the possible attack of anv for
eign nation or nations, and to that end
vvc respectfull request the Itepubllcan
Senator and the Itepubllcan memliers
In the House of Representatives from
the Slate of New ork to give hearty
suplHirt to any me.iauie or measures
tli.il will accomplish that result,
Theio was a ndrlted discussion of the
evolution, which was finally decided
to refei it to the convention' resolu-1
tlnns committee.
statement
The capital of Montenegio s In nur
hands. Our troop, put suing the beaten
enemy yestcrda. afternoon e-iDred
I'ettlnje. The residence of the Monte
negrin King and the town are un
damaged. The population Is calm
The fall of i'ettlnje was made Inevl
Will Tiilvc Iniiiipiliiiti Stcpx
Aiiiiin-t Itritish IIcciium'
ol' lliiniliiiiir l'iir.
K.vprcss Hope of Vonjfi'anci'
h.v (Jcriiiany anil 3luk
Attacks on Wilson.
(.rout l ili If tittpatch to Tuz So.
LuNlsix, Jan. H. Documents, car
ried by C'.ipl Franz von I'apcn. the
recalled f'.irman Military Attache at
Wiu-hlngton, which were taken from
him by the Hritlsh aiitliorllleM while
the former attache was at Falmouth
on his way to fJermany. wete turned
over to-day to the American Kmbassy
for transmission to tho State Depart
ment at Washington.
The papers furnish evidence of Capt.
von Papeti's activities In the l'nlted
States which led to Ills recall and on
their face connect liltn with dynamite
und other outrages committed In (lis
'.'lilted States. They Indicate that the
(miner Military Attache paid $700 to
Werner llotii. who was arrested
charge 1 with damaging "he Canadian
Pacific bridge ut St. Croix. Me., and
thut he ;nade payments to other men
connected with Ceiman activities in
America. The documents show, more
over, that Capt. von I'upcn'a bank ac
counts were replenished with fund
from the Merman ICmbissy at Wash
ington, charged to "wur Intelligence
work."
Hank iHioks ami lnoks of check
titubs nre Included in the material
t., Ize.l.
Capt von Papon ake.l tho Amer
ican Cnilussy to protest to Washing
i ton against the seizure of his paper.-,
I but the Hiitlsh authorities took the
stand that the .safe conduct gtanted
to the attach" applied only in his per
son and not tu any documents he
might le. carr lug
Wliill lliMMiineiitM Miotv.
The dosvier furnished lo the Anni
lean Kml'iissy di-i lo.es unions other
things the following facts.
That I'npt von Papep .In. nigh Urn
flint oft; Am.-lnck Co of New Voik
by checks drawn on Hip Ulgg Na
tional Itiiix of Washington paid Wer
ner Hoi n. alias Vim llorm. tho sum of
$To ., f, v.. dnj previous: to the Inl
ter'h att. mpt to blow up the Canadian
Pacific bi.dge.
That throiigli th,. ...iine agency h
paid Anton Km pfeiif. tho tierman spy
who cnmmltte, Miicld" in Miixton
Maul lllrelloii l,n Aiiieuded,
rr '
A'.r
t'
H
n-
I
0'
:
nr.
Irr,
. ,,.
f I
tr
a
v .
Of 1
S natc will toi-nll," said Mr,
-ir.-as'Ii'iilly. "that that wna
n.. when we declared war
r vvi ni to war with Iiuerta.
.in we nil knw. has bee:.
eminent In Mexico."
"Inasmuch as the Senator fron Mis
souri (Mr. Stone), is doubtless In the
run vonnnence or me riesiiient," sug-1
Indicates that such a dash l under way
and big developments are looked for
The French submarine which sank an
and r.ilne petroleum and asphnltum. It . Voik Assembly district move.) that the Auetrlan cruiser Is of the l.aub.iif tjpe.
'owns lands In twelve counties and pro- 'committee request the Legislature, to with a radius of 3.(100 miles, dimensions
' dining wells In six counties of California ; amend the elections law so that State of ltis hy n;iv by 10 feet TOO horse-
und Iris pipe lines, storage vessels, oil committeemen would be elected in Hep- power and a dlspl icemeiit or tons
rehneties and ni.irketlng stations. The timlm- iu aceoidance wdh the new an-I irross. Shr was built In lioil and Was
Army offlceis who have been on tho compan.v distributes Its imnlucts in the poi lionnicnt to be made this jear hy the a surface speed of 12 knots the sub
border arc of the opinion that the recent principal cities of the Pacllle coast and Leglslatuic ills contention was that merged speed being 7ni knots
outrage" 111 Mexico have been perpe- In Hawaii, Hritlsh Columbia, Chile, Pan- unless this was done the Stale commit- i The Home correspondent of Tun Sti.v
ama and . iiiatemala. It controls the tee would flirJ Itself with a nuinbei of I telegraphs that tw. dreadnoughts and
Cl.ii.'ii'ont nil Cotiip.in.v, the Mission members who either npreseiued no dls-1 four Herman submarines from the naval
IIki'I.in. via Inidon. .laii. II The
table by the Austrian capture of M. tint j German Covernnient notified Croat Hilt-
Lovcen three da.vs ago .,, lr . A , ,.:ml,(sj ,.
lmmedl.ilely after Hie caiture of
Mount Lovcen. which controls tho ''ay "I adopt imm.dlalely
Hocche .11 Cattaro, the entire Austrian measures.!; repiiMi fm the alleged miir- prison here, the sum of $ t On Just prior
met was conceiitiate.l off Cattaro The ,,.r f ij,.r.,,,, siilors after the sinking1 Kii"pfer le's enib.irknig for his mil
mountain's capture automatically re- , , ,.,. slon
leased an Austrian squadion of three ' l.eiman submar b toe Hritlsh
dreadnoughts, four cruisers and tinnier-1 pal'ol boat Haralong That i .-pi on Papen kept the tier-
ous torpedo craft Slnitiltaneouslv the t"e not- (..rin.iiy says that re- man ( onsulnt.. in Seattle togiilarly
alllwl Mediterranean fleet took the i,,.,.. I tallation will he adopted a a nult of supplied with largo .urns from Ihe be
essary sleps to prevent an Austrian ' Ureal Hritnin's falluie to repl to the ginning of !- I r n.i ry . H'l I. until a fort-
imval dash. The French submit rlne f.at i.erman .lemanu ror an evpiination or lg!it prior to ti e .uitrace occurring
the
.iiuinstanies of the sinking
pone,.-. me possiimuy inai carranza , , ,s,,rt , ,..lUfornIa , p,(lu.e Joseph Leveion of Hie Second New
could prevent even lis own suiiiiorters : ' . ., , ..)....,. '. . . ' .
from taklnt: up ariiw to repel the "grill-
(Inlrnaes lo Stnrl Trouble,
trated hy Villa to force Intervention and ,
rehabilitate himself as the military
lender of the country Iu the outburst of
gested Senator Calllnger. "1 think Itlpatilotlc fervor that such action would
K... f.l ).. ..uLr ll, ,,ru..lBU1.. -r,ltA
Trai spnrtntion and Itvllnlng Company 1 1 1ft at all or a district In which they 1 base at Pnlu are destined to cooperate
Th" stibmai Ine wa sunk by the Itaia
long off l,ii nl on August K', while she
was slielll-K the steamship Nlcosian
The Herman Covernment submitted nf
lulavils b American muleteers on the
Niroslnu, stating that the captain and
seveial s.i.lors of (he submarine crew
pie shot bv Itrltlsli nuirlnes as they
were struggling In Ihe watei The as.
sertlon also vvn made Dial the Haralong
was living tlie Ameihiiu dag
siicesflll conrltislon, as the Intentions of t lie I'resldont and thel Carranza lias never been the tp of
ninl the Pnsllicers Transportation I'om-
i authorized capital clock
of which th.'ie is. out-
of jO,fnj0.1IOII.
dl.l no.t live, while some districts msght
have no state committeeman at all. The
suggestion that a committee chosen Iu
on May 30, when the la.st payment of
J.Mio was mad.
The dot unieiitaiy evidence revealing
these fa-ts constitute an nn.ty total
ling half a bushel Uiskctful niid out
r. willing in impori.iico even the fa
tnniis Aiiiilbalil ioii)'-ioinleiice. The
l.lti'is. bank books and check stubs
show ci miiisiv id.v that whenever an
rip.f.ige v.. is i ..minuted in the l'nlted
Stnl.s pilot- ... that tune extensive
pigments weie iu ulo h.v Von i'apen
thtough Am-lnck . Co and others in
, c.n Itnern bus died In Administration In reference to existing i lighting man that appeals to the Latin standing 4 il.21 S.soit. Indented from , Septembei mlglit tlirow out' the piesent
uu. ii... I conditions In Mexico." American temperament. Other Cenerals , $31, 3!:',s0ii in 1DH. The compaii Is State chairman, at least ili.it there would
... "I am not the spokesman of the Pies. have fought his battles against Villa, continued bj Hock ownership by the be much discussion of that poiblllty
In reolvtiu: to the 'ierman demand
In "extensive i.aval operations on the 1 rr explanation Sir IMward Ciey
Albanian coat, posslhly at inuazzo. ipIOpoed to submit the evidence in the that partii nlar locilltv.
llunizzo Is one of the thne Albanlin .,i., i ., itl1 .-ii.. i inn-.
ports where Italian troops aie conceii. .(M1C , ,n vr,ltls f
trated to ward off the Austrian and ,,..,.. .i,.....,.,. r,ali,st il.e Ceimans.
ni ii. .Tunis,. e,.. ,lnt" ieolle.1 Mr. Slnnn. "He
.leieni.ine whether there w as ,h. tl,., i."
i..,,,ltlon in the senate to siir "" P ' S "
,, ,w.m )h:ii woii d nrovoke I .""" .. .. . . -'""i..
however, to use u nis iuiiucnc and
power to prevent any unseemly and un
wise action on our part at this time.
"I hope It Is not the Intention of the
President to ask Congress to authorize
him to send troops Into Mexico nor com
mit any m't that would precipitate a
conflict between Mexico and the l'nlted
States. I hope It Is his intention to do
whatever he can to aid In strengthening'
Carranza'a hand and give him fair and
full opportunity to prove whether he can
maintain an orderly and effective (lov
ernment In Mexico.
i ii nenl that would provone
,mll..t with the people of Me.x-
' in ste'lt not," said Senator
. one thing above all otheis
t.v Ins Administration which bos
I ie apiroval or tho Amcilcan
- the brave and continued ef
i'ie president to keep this coun-
f w ii. If It can jmsslbly be done
i.'no" lo the l'nlted States and
a. undue Mierltlce to the Interests
American people,
World Ohm ibiml War.
"T world bus gone crazy aboul war.
1. om e.erj quarter of this country has
'"ri- n lament nt tho world's conditions,
' n ' tie there ate a few people whoe
'nod Iijm Income heated and whose
I'anis in become diseased by the
b-io' f w.r It Is entirely possible, If
ml iir-'i . t.lo, that If some man wh know
of hid I id ihe oovvers of tho President
" v"u 1 in it he difficult for us to think of
("Hl ii mm the United Stutes In all
prut ih luj would have been embroiled
In liar oosslliH In morn than one war,
"Wc might have been In the European
r und we would have had nn army
I" Mexico, but It rannot bo Hint the
simi In do of the American people who
' no sinister motives, irolltlRal or
'tli s dcslie to have this country
,ni i . i ip war.
"N"w what Is the sllttntlon?" asked
K' naior Hione, "Carranza has been
t( 'Jtsiu.cd and there Is a de facto fay
inimnt Wo have ull desired a gov
ri.mcni thut wc could hold In some
(live Cnrramn a Chance.
"I hope that Is his policy and yours,
t think we ought to give Carranza a
chance to test out what he can do. I
am amazed that Senators should have
raised the question of Intervention at
this lime, when this experiment Is In Its
beginning, when Carranza Ir Just gath
ering his energies to Improve his npjior
monies for doing things right In Its In
fancy, because of an unfortunate occur
rence committed by robliers and bandits
roving wildly in violation or law, and
whom Carranza Is seeking with nil the
forces he Iras to run down and brlns to
punishment. For God's sake, let's give
them a chance."
Senator Works said he took full re
sponsibility for his resolution: the lie-
Co a ! I nurd on Thlnr! PiW.
and It Is not unreasonable to hunnose I Union Provident Company, the latter In light in the midst of an Important cam
that old scores would be forgotten and turn being controlled by the United palgn, seemed not to Influence Mr. la-ven-
that Villa the bandit would be sue- petroleum Company
leeucn ) out ine nt'iierai us ine limine. -- -
around whom the patriotism of Mexico yi.v nnTTirCT ntf WTHTTD
would rally to tight a foreign aggressor. I 1U-1JAX OULUivSi Ut WIIi.tt.
I. veil assuming that Carranza would ,
consent to Intervention hy the United Jlernir nt Hal Xlldiilgbl nod Still
Slates for the purpose of running down I ,.,l..,l llord.
Villa and clearing the country of Ir-
reepoiiFlble bands of outlaws. It Is prob- Tins win m uie coinrsi nay of Ice
winter n several oegrecs just ijow
Mn Tlie mallei was finally disposed
able that this conntrv would flml II i
lircessaiy not only lo jsilicc Hie terrl-'many tin' local prophets were not In- voters petition for a primary then such h(' vIImiiIuii town elixely menace
In the ninth in which they now , cllned to say with pontiveness last night a primary snail lie called hy the county , immediate objective of the
llulgaiian land Invasions, the two other
points being Sail Clovannl .11 Medu.i in .,,... ipiTrnUT II' 4 . V C V"'
the north and Avion, the chief port, in M7. A II 1IUU I II .'lVA I Air
lh.. ninth Al the latter lsilnt Italian -
of by leaving It to a comnilltio to be I forces estimated variously at between I t
named h Chairman Tanner j r,o,(00 nnd 120,000 men are held In read- I
III the call for (he coiiveution It Is tless
stipulated that the delegates shall be i Tllp unitarian invading armv who i
chosen iu Mich manner an tlie county ; .,, j,,,, uoinunts had left Flbassan Is be-
lomiimiees oi me executive commuters 11(.V1.(, to have made sutllcleut progress ,,.spai, 1, from Malt describing th
oi ine com i . oiiimiiiees hiiaii o rect. ex-' t(, ..llrt all Austrian naval attack ( , hMil.nig of the steamship Clan Mac
cept that If In any Aw-m lily dlntr let 3 ,.pernti. with the drive for the Adriatic .f.,,.,,,,. I,, a submarine i s
im-i ..-in, ... .,,.....e.. ii'i limn srutar In the north is anotiie- ..t,
it it
tint Mine-j From 1 1 in lui s. . ,
ll).iit 'lirpi'il).)!! I'lnii Mni'fiir
liio,. .in (in) of 7 1 Vll-slnu.
Sperial Cable linpatch to Tar. Scv
Ihivi.'i, .1 in II .lews .igincy
vessel was
tnry
operale but eventually to puisne them
southward beyond Mexico to hu haunts
of the .a pa 1 1st as.
Three plans for Intervention have been
under consideration by the military ex
perts of the Ceueral Staff. The first
provides only for the rapture of the
Mexico towiiH along the border of the
United States, to nbvlale ihe dllllcultles
that haw arisen from time to time In
the last year or two.
llehlud the border towns Is a stretch
of desert country for pracUcillj hun
dred miles which would serve as a nut
in), barrlri- between tlnitvvo countries.
This plan was devised Mainly with the
Idea of undertaking aggressive mens
ores without llicieaslng the size of tho
nrmy as now constituted. It would not
go far, It Is admitted, toward disposing
rxt )!,- nrnlilem that now confronts Hie
Government or the milieu Mates. ( siignuy wnn.ie,, .on .. .,,n mm i. nor.
The second plan calls r Un suhjiign-1 H the prophets say true, and It looks
i as If they knew.
I
f7niilfniieil on 7'Mrd I'apr.
Pellrloai IleerfMl Farm SauMte.
They cost more try thorn and wby.
Man. at the rum. Boutnborouch, Mast.
Aiv.
Tor nourlshlnr dirt In zriprie nr sore ttiroat
nee florllck's Mkltrd UUk Avoid eulMtitutra.
-ia.
torpedoed without
w:iri. hilt Afler t in ciew tool, to tlie
....!,... nnlln.nl .. .... , . ,.. l..l, , , e I , ,t e I ,.u 1. t.a l.l .... '" llt.l.l' ........ ...... .... ,,lh J HP lIIO."l III. I I ' H. . I ' ,.,
' v .1 . i I "",'7 ' I.,,.", '., trinn army which t.sig i-oltinje ami is , , ,,S;,B th,. name, character, n.i-
I1,, v.. . '. : ..."..": r-.:;.. ' ... . r ..' ' - austiua wahns allies. r m- sienmer u..t sinking ru.i.nv. th,.
... .1... , ,. II, ,. ,., Ininre of Alirll i The l..,.,r..u.l,m 1 MllUllil litl-
At inldtiiglil Ihe mercury bad fallen prevailed yesterday that no resolution Urnoniu'ra, Throimli I. i:n".
to 9, one degree above tlie maximum pre. Indoislng any one for the Itepuhllcan .lllia rrr-l lleprlsnl Hinted.
dieted by Washington, and It looked to Presidential iiomlnatlon would he passed.
the amateur meteorologist uu the street hy the convention. Cov Whitman ami Special Cable Peepttch to Tns 8cs.
as If (he silver pencil was going to Senator Wadswortli will be two of the Amstkhdaxi, Jan. It. lep.iieties
....ii.... .ei. , i.r u,nr,i of u.nne.. i,..,., ilelecales at Inrgc Mr Hoot will be from Vienna sav thai the ustrl.in For-
repi it ue care. 1.1 ko, i ne inner pos- eign .vlliusier nas antiies-.-i. nir ...
elhllltles are Nicholas Murrn; Hutler, , American Ambassador Peiillchl with re
William Heirl, David Jayne Hill, Job Kard to the arrest of the Austrian Con
Hedges nut State Chairman Tanner. hul at Salonlc.i b Hie Miles, requesting
Theodore Douglas ItohiiiHou, u nephew the Anieilcaii illplom.it to telegraph 10
of the Colonel and former State chair-, the Itrltlsli and Flench I'oiemn unices,
man of the Progressive party, who re- The note sajs In part:
cently announced his return lo the He-' "The AuMro-Hilugarlau fioi eminent
To-morrow may he publican' party, attended the meeting iuiW learned lo Us palntul iisinnisiiiiieni
)rocid.i; .0- i'".'., ...i ,1 ...u.,., im n- I or Ilie lirill.ll ni l 01 i Kiit ini- i-i ,.-iiii..-.i
eiiliusli of Herkimer. against tlie Aiistto-lliingarlun Consul-
Thi. committee tidjoiirned lo meet ii..nerul .11 Salnntca mid against the ner-
again ill 1 o'clock In the afternoon of nonnel and the archives of tlie cn-ulate Pilncess .I11II.111.1 arrived at Uravesend
I'ebuiary H and n number of Aiisti'o-Hiing.inan to-iliv lulnglng Ihe holy of Cipi de
- - ..nl.leeis. oh well as of Ihe arrest of ltucr and seven of the .tea 01 Ihe Out, '1
I'liifjiiitsl N ' , .Oiitrr of out dom sporis , .,,ii..,.im accredited lo tlie (luek Cov- steamer Matishavcn. which wns struck
f or (.
The coldest place on tlie weather map
was Wllllston. N. !.. with IS below.
Huston showed 10 last night ami will tie
colder before daylight lt Is had weather
for germs and will keep on knocking
them ' oil to.ilio. as the foieciiHters say
the skies will be clear and the frwdlueHs
: keep up all nay
then submerged, it is de.
scribed as .1 veiy huge ve of tile lat
est iv 1 10. mounting two guns.
"The six boats italnhig the Clan
M.icfail uie's suivivors were tied to.
gether Tbe eucolllile ed IllolllltallloU'
seas i-'or three d.l.Vs tlie.v lein.'lltled In
iicmiMiiy, then two lnoKe awav. Later
the captain's boat also broke nwa.v Tin
three 1 em iin'i'g boats, half wateiloi;ged
drifted for e.glll days befoie the ocetl-JI..II!,-
weie lISCU.'il
"i mi: of a ciew of seveut.v -lour llft.v.
including the captain, are unaccounted
for "
llnleli s.iiiiiir Mini. b Mine,
LiNlio.v. Jin II Th" Dutch -learner vengea upon .1
ft. Oltl 11 IMOUMATKIV lll'llKAl
Also rhiirlsstioi, Miniiiiii-n llle Aiikiisi.i.
RivHiinuh, Tlioin.isi III" .v.- i'iiIi.i He. oris Al.
l'liitle roast Line, HI'S ll'ws Trains Dull.
er.
lintel Carolina. Holly Inn, llerkthiie now open
I ernment and Auatro-llungarlan sub- h a mine In the North Sea and iank.
1 I
The. also -no v sKnifieantli a (n tii
lloin ..i-e. ih.r on tne ai prior to the
pa , mem of ?7"0 Vom I'apen's special
li.ink a nut was ulu'lnciitcl hv J2.000
(inn the iternian I'mbissv
Thev show. loo. a niimhct of paymeuls
'Pro, i from Vinli is-.ulor von liernstorff
lo Von Papen for what was euigmiit
teallv termed "war Intelligence work
Th.'M. pa.vments varied finni Jl',000 up.
ward
There aie more than 7,fln entries, coi
venlenlly giving Ihe jnosi liani.iglng de
talis, as. fot liis'auif, a .ii.iii stuli f.o
flOU was marked "Paid Amsln.K A- Co'
and lieneaih anothei was written "Foi
Kuepferle." while th" $700 payment .w.c
marked "For 1 01 11 '
The evidence tal.en tmni i'npt von
Papon ha- furnished 10 the .ni 1 1 1 ,r 1 1 1.--the
mo-t coinple'.e il. in lentary cat 11
logne of the .olivlie- of Ceiman agen'
In the Fulled Sl.lt." No details o'
names. lt. t - or amount- an- missing
All these have been furnished to tile
American Fanbassj Phologr.iplnc Topic-"
and the oilglnals also will lie funilshfl
to Wii-IiIiiki is soon as thev are fin
hhed
Threats Millie Vunlosl , s,
III IlllllltlOll to llle lltl.lhcl.il document,
tlie letteis vviuc nte impoiinded furnls'i
a volume in theiioelves leemiug with Ii
-'III of the Aiiieilian lie idem and con
Hulling even Uncus of the lion ileleimi
nation on the pan if Herman to wrcii.
I mteil stales
liven Ihe dlplomam Dr Albert sila
ges lb.it lierni.lMV "lioiild l ike a stlffer
itininle tovvaiil tlie t'm.eil Stales, while
In Meier te.ms I'ris lei, I'son's pen
tralil "llctiiiou.s and speaks of the
