Euening
NIGHT
EXTRA
Iie&ger
NIGHT
EXTRA
!
vol. n NO. 10G
PIILLADJELl'IIIA, SATURDAY, JANUARY 15, 1010.
ConsioiiT. 1018, ar in Pnstid Lieon Coumni,
PRICE ONJ35 OEN-T
i rr-
BERLIN ORDERS
REPRISAL WAR
BY SUBMARINES
'Germany Notifies Britain
in Note on Baralong
Case of Intentions
FORWARDED BY U. S.
J.
BRcfuao t Allow American Na
p vpl Board to Pass on Attack
', Upon u-JBoat
r-
.. iin.nttnn liv fJnrmnnv Hint n
pj, -ine noimt."""" ------
Tar of reprisal by suumnnncs win uo
resumed becatisc of the attack by the
rMih steamship Baralonjr upon n
Tenton U-boat carries a strong inti-
f MiUnn that tne pledges given uy uw
Un io tho United States in the Lusi
tanta case will be annulled. Berlin
-t,.r,i.i thnt Great Britain has wan-
ii' ! violated International law in the
I' Earalong case and may take the stand
that such action absolves it lrom
nttrpR civen the United States that
I-" Uvea upon tne ihr" sea win oc saic-
guarded.
BCnUN, Jnn. 13.
Censures of reprisal will bo adopted
. .... hi im TmrwrlM German Govern
ment for tlio killing of German submnrlno
'llors by tho crow of tho British patrol-
boat Baraionffi WHO uuiumnjr unnuuui.
today- . . 1 j
in.. nniiAiiiiiiiimiint wns contained In n.
;German note on tho Baralong case, sub
mitted to mo lnBUBii uuvuniuium.
through tho United Stntcs Embassy. Its
f i-. mv lint, 4naf linnn mmtn nnhtln.
cornpicio ivfc iin jMfc - - ........ -.
't ..MMn..'a ninftunf nf hor minmnrlnn
Skwr la vogorously defended, and charges
ire tnado that Engllih sailors have vio
lated tho laws or war nnu 1110 ias 01
humanity.
Tho noto contends that tho Gorman
army and navy throughout tho war have
observed tho principles of humanity and
international law. and that In every case
Contlnued on Thro life, Column One
I SEASON'S COLDEST DAY
IS GETTING WARMER
Il9 ... . -in t (- r: A tvt
was j.,5 ueBiuuo n " "
Moat' Frigid January 15 in
Four Years .,
Today's Temperatures
Midnight 15
1 a. m IB
2 n. m 14
8 a. m 14
4 a. m 13
5 a. m 12
6a. m 12
7 a. m 13
8 a. m 13
9 a. m 10
10 a. m 17
11 a. m 17
Noon 18
This is tho coldest day winter lias of-
Iftred tho city this season, and tho coldest
f January 15 since 1912.
Tho cold wave from tho West secured
fa. tight hold over the city last night and
when morning dawned tho mercury stood
at 13 degrees. General Grip, whoso army
lot fag and dampness has Invaded tho
city for a long period, withdrew his rar
eruard, frozen out.
Hunting Park Lake was opened for
.ikatlng this morning and othor bodies of
.vater in secluded places, sheltered from
ue high wind, offered the winter pastime.
Th Falrmount Park lakes were unfit for'
Ikatlng, Tho west -wind, which made tho
Icold very penetrating during the night,
gdled down In the early morning hours and
th mercury is slowly climbing. It will
feontinuo to do so the Weather Bureau
(Predict. The forecast for tonight nnd
1 tomorrow is "warmer."
In tho suburbs much lower marks were
let by tho morcurv. At Green Tren tho
ttemperatupe early this morning was 5,
, ji.vii 0, i. Airy s, itosemont iv ana
sMerion K).
pILADELPIIIA HEATS
NEW YORK AT RACQUETS
Gorge H. Brooke and Wear Compose
Local ieam
?0Org H. Brooke and .Tosvnh W. Wenr
iwgeseutlng Philadelphia,' defeated tho
tfY;ork racquets team, composed of C.
fw ?ll and Stanley Q Mortimer national
" 'BIIons. at thn nnWmnt rinh tM
F ornlng, i games to
I, A (food gallery saw the matches, which
. - wu piayeu ana extremely last.
; e champions took tho third and
Saw, garaea by big margins, but we're
I2!r . Bet 8'artea as they aha-.ld hve
l," nB 'ast game the I'iilladelphla
HSttaDtured the contest. 15 to . Tho
gfM:
Ktbw W " 8 f w
York 1 a u tic lit 11 o
THE WEATHER
FORECAST
Fn ni.i.j.i..i 1 . 1 ....
iFai V "uuue,P'lta . "a VtCMKflT
ueti ! 7urTer lomgni, ounaay m
PmhL 1 y, """uines tttm warmer, proo
ft r-F-. VJf W(Utf,
I-QSJ AND rOTJlfD
lnmt Rlln.u T........ i .M.1I .I4
rTS loch and hjlf loriir. Wndir cleiua
eJMrS01 CoVrt' Qermantown, and ro-
juifh Jrom motor at opera, on Tvfea
flVia4CoId riit watch: black
S. J1,?; "bral reward. Addrew P.
& "bral reu
M. lUvertord. Pa.
-&aan. aiunomi barpin Thursday at
J, Wa 13th and Vv'alnut and Bt,
mniii u returned Bt j.uaea uowu
Wita4 4U. oa Paga ii. ? a il
Montague Glass1
NO MERCY TO BE SHOWN BANDITS,
CARRANZA GENERAL PROMISES ,
NEW YORK. Jnn. 16. Every member of the gang of Mexican bandits
responsible for the massacre of Americans at Santa Ysabel will bo exe
cuted immediately upon capture, General Jacinto Trevino, Cnrrnnza com
mander, has wired tho United Press.
"Tho punishment to bo administered to the culprits tn tho Santn
Ysabel massacre of Americans, I inform you, will bo identical with that
meted out to Rodriguez nnd Carlos Almeida," wired General Trevino. '
"They were made prisoners and shot to death."
Trevino wired the result of his visit to tho scene of the massacre, '
corroboratinjr previous details of tho mid, and adding that n "so-called ,
General Reina" participated. His dispatch continues:
"On the day of the massacro these headquarters ordered n regiment
under'CoI. Jose Villanuevn Gnrza to be sent to Santa Ysabel with instruc- I
tions to pursue the bandits. Colonel Garza was instructed to communicate
by tho nuickest wav with General .Tnsn Gnvnzna. plilnf nf llm dntnVimnnta
at Bustillo3 and Snn Antonio, that Cavazos might bo watchful of the
movements of tho band which had assaulted the train.
t "The bandits realizing tho movements of tho Constitutionalists by all
sides retired to a point called Carrctas, according to news received lierc.
Later they divided into small groups, some going to tho West, some to
the south, seemingly for the mountains. If wo learn of the appearance
of new bands in the mountains our forces will find them nnd pursue them
without rest to avoid their concentration at any point. Tho chief of arms
at Juarez informs theso headquarters that ho has reinforced tho detach
ments nt Pearson, Casas Grnndcs and Madera.
"With tho combined movement of tho forces over tho two branches of
the northwest, wo will succeed in keeping away all the bands that may
appear, putting them in flight or pushing them into tho Sierra Madro
Mountains, where they will And no food."
TAYLOR'S LAST
REPORT URGES
5-CENT FARES
Abolition of Exchanges and
P. E. T. Control of
Lines Advised
LEGISLATION IS NEEDED
Tho annual report of tho Department of
City Transit for tho year 1913 lias been
completed by A. Morrltt Tnylor, tho
retiring Transit Director, and will bo
mado public tomorrow. Tho report will
contain a dotation summary of tho ac
tivities of tho department during the
year Just ended; tho present status of
tho two high-speed projects now In courso
of construction; tho estimated coat, routes
nnd plans of tho nddltional subway and
clovnted lines recommended by tho Tran
sit Department; tho financial aspects of
tho entire transit project; tho enabling
legislation, both Councllmnnlc nnd State,
passed during tho year, and llnally a ro
low of tho tcntntivo agreement between
tho city and 'tho Philadelphia r.npid
Transit Company, looking to tho opera
tion of tho cltv-bullt hlKh-snccd system
nnd to tho establishment of universal J
nvo-cent. tares in nince 01 i iiicavui.
clght-ccnt oxchango tickets.
Tho roport wilt lay particular stress
upon tho neqesslty for tho Stato Legis
lature to pass a bll), prepared last Bprlng
by. Director Taylor, providing- that-caTB
should bo through routed between lines
built and owned by cities of tho first
class and lines built and owned by cor
porations within cities of tho first class.
Tho bill was Introduced in tho last
Legislature, but ns ltr was not reported
from committee It will havo to ho re
Introduced In tho 1917 Legislature.
Tho passage of the bill would mean
Continued on Paao riTC, Column Pour.
PENNYPACKER SAYS
CANADA MAY JOIN U.S.
Ex-Governor Asserts Dominion
Would Be Annexed if Ger
many Should Win War
An opinion thnt Canada would be an
nexed to tho United States in tho event
that Germany should win tho war has
been expressed by former Governor
Samuel AV. Pennypacker. and now a
1 i, Tniain Sprvlea Commls-
slon. In an open letter Issued In support
of his frank pro-German sympathies.
Tho annexation of Canada, tho Governor
believes, would bo desirable.
Tho letter lu part follows:
"It is conceded, even by her (Ger
many's) foes, that her people are among
the most efficient, energetic and culti
vated of nil those upon tho earth. She
has shown her capacity In tho events of
this war as she did beforo In literature,
science and commerce. Is It not better,
then, for mankind, that she should be
preserved, that her methods which have
proven to bo useful be extended, and
that her ihlluence bo expanded?
"In no crisis in tha past havo Ameri
can affairs been conducted with so little
good Judgment. We havo indicated a
lack of nblltty to measure the trend of
events and to appreciate our own Interest
which may be said to approach fatuity.
"In thi3 war, by maintaining a real neu
trality and indicating a proper sympathy
with a sturdy and capable people, strut
gllns for existence against seemingly
overwhelming numbera-of British. French,
Serbians, Belgians, Italians. Russians,
Algerians. Japanese and Hindoos, we
might haife made H. friend among the
nations, It would seem that the very
meanness of giving support to such a
combination would hae been resented
by American manhood.
"Instead, it may as well be recognized
that we have so managed as to retain the
old rivalries of Great Britain, and to
make another enemy of Germany. Pro
fessing to fear tho German spirit, we
have done all that it has been possible
to do to bring her wrath upon our heads.
We have been boisterous Hi our Condem
nation of Germany. Wo have hidden out
of sight and condoned the Jar more
Brievous offenses of Great Britain. In all
Sur history. Germany never has crossed
our path. Wo Beyer have made a step
forward that the British have not en
deavored to thwart."
JIIG NEW CHEMICAL COMPANY
$3,750,000 Organization Incorporated
in Delaware
DOVER, Dot. Jan. I5.-The American
ChcmlcaU and Byproducts Company, to
eugsSTm tho manufacture and sale of
chemical preparations of all kinds, was
fnorporated at the State Department
SENSES with a capital Block of (M.
mo The incorporator were B. O. Wil
uLb,, Frankford, Ky.. George- McLeod,
VerTatlles. Ky. J W. Saunders, Waco.
TeZ W Y. J- Howard. CwUwton, , Ky
Tha capital itock of Commercial Credit
company. Baltimore. Md.. was Increased
fm 3.000,080 to J1.000.000,
Characters., Zapp
BRITISH SHELLS
COVER RETREAT
UPON SALONICA
Troops Hold Advanced
Lines Until Stores Are
Taken to Base
VERY COLD IN BALKANS
rotfoulnp fj the fourth l3t(itrn! of
William a. Shepherd's unernaornl atori; of
(lie Allied retreat from Serbia.
By WILLIAM G. SHEPHERD
SALONICA, Dec. 11.
A French soldier In a steel hat stopped
nnd looked nt us curiously ns wo walked
nlong tho road.
"Excuso me," ho said In broken Eng
lish, "but It's so long Hlnco Pvo seen n
man In clothe3 llko yours that 1 couldn t
help staring."
Tho big British gun was booming nt
two-mlnuto intcrvdls. Fiencli guns, set
on nearby hillsides, ero Bonding occa
sional shots and once, whllo uo talked, a
Bulgarian shell broke on tho road a quar
ter of a mllo below us nnd we saw aol
dlcrs running from tho cloud of earth. It
was a battlollcld. In every sense of tho
word, n battlellolcTwhich, within II hours
was 1o bo tho sccno of nti allied retreat
Incidentally, I wonder what hecntno of
tho little Frenchman.
"Civilian clpthes seem extraordinary,"
'he snldr "Have some chocolato?"
Ho pulled nn cnvclopo from his pocket
with a postage stamp nnd address on It.
"This is something I got in tho mall
from Paris today."
I took a small piece of his precious
chocolate.
"Havo you heard that wo'ro going to
move from hcrc7" ho said. "Tho rumor
Is going around our camp. They say wo
Continued on l'ucc 1'Iic". Column Tni
I MONTENEGRINI VERSO
IL CONFINE ALBANESE
Un Primo Incrociatore Aus-
triaco E' Affondato Davanti
alle Bocche di Cattaro
Un comunlcato ufflclalo pubbllcato oggi
a Vienna nnnuncla die la forzo monto
ncgrlno cho occupavano la cdpltale del
piccolo regno si sono rltlrnto verso II con
fine dell'Albanla, evl cntomento con l'in
tenziono dl ragglungero Scutari. Non una
parola o' dctta circa II preteao annlstlzlo
cho snrebbo stato flrmato tra. II comnn
dante austrlaco ed II re Nicola, ed 0'
probablle che la notlzla non sla stata cor
rlspondente alia verlta'. Oggl si hnnno
numeroso notlzio strnne e stravagnnti,
da quella che l'Austrla lm 11 controllo del
I'Adriatlco o che la sua tlotta si prepar.i
ad nttaccaro Io forze navnll Itnllane assal
superlorl, che da mesl l'nttendono nl
varco, a quella dl offensive contro la
costa albancse da terra e da mare.
Un sottomarino francese addetto alia
flotta ltallana ha Intanto sllurato ed
affondato davanti a Cattaro un Incrocia
tore austrlaco moderno e veloclsslmo, II
cho mostra cho forse Cattaro o' bloccata
dalle forze navall itallane.
tLeggero in a pagltta le ultimo e plu"
dettagliato notizle sulla guerra, tn
ltaliano,)
Slander Suit Begun by Politician
Thomas Doyle. 2S30 North 12th street.
former vice president of tho 37th Ward
Democratic League, who was expelled
from the club last year on charges grow
ing out of the alleged disappearance of
two billiard balls from the league's quar
ters at 2330 North Sth street, today started
suit against James Scanlan, 2113 North
10th street, to recover $1500 damages for
alleged defamation of character and slan
der. Tho suit was filed in the Municipal
Court.
Evening Ledger Circulation
(For Six Months)
Daily Average for July . 92,324
z ' Daily Average for August 95,618
Daily Average for Sept., . . 100,608
Daily Av. for Oct., . 102,185
Daily Av. for Nov., 94,801
Daily Av. for Dec, 96,785
The foregoing figures represent ihe actual net paid circu-,
lation of this newspaper, eliminating all returned and free
copies,
and Birsky Discuss The High Cost of Living in Page l
MRS. EMMELINE PANKHURST
Noted English suffragist, who
has again been held up nt Ellis
Island.
STATUS OF JOH CHANGED
Position in Public Works Department
Taken From Exempt List
Vnder n. ruling adoplrd by tho Civil
Rorvlco Commissioners today, the position
of general Inspector In tho office nf the
Director of Public Works Is taken from
tho exempt list nnd no longer will be
Included In tho confidential clnns
Tho position, which carries a salary of
$2300, was exempted by lequcst of former
Director Cooko on March 50, 19il, under
tho cl It service act allowing each depart
mental head a confidential clerk, and
slnco that time soornl men havo held tho
place Tho last Incumbent wns Hnrry C.
Hodges, 515 West Clnplcr street, who ic
slgned January !i.
Under tho new ruling, which 1ms the
approval of Director Dalesman, a
competitive examination villi bo held soon,
and tho next grnernl Inspector will bo
chosen from nn eligible list resulting from
tho competitive test.
U. S. S. Tennessee Ordered to Haiti
WASHINGTON". Jan. 15. Tho United
States cruiser Tcnncsioo today was or
dered from tho Portsmouth Navy Yard
to Haitian witori to relievo the United
States cruiser Washington as llagshlp of
tho cruiser squadron.
TWO INSANE ASYLUM
MATES FLEE TO HEAR
'BILLY' SUNDAY PREACH
Fired' by Desire to'"Lfstcn -fo
Evangelist, Men Make Es
cape, but Are Captured
at Door of Tabernacle
WANTED TO "HIT TRAIL"
TRHNTON, N. J.. Jan. 15. Tho entire
city Is talking today nbout tho wonderful
Influence exerted by "Hilly" Sunday upon
tho 110O or mora patients at tho State
Hospital for tho Insane here. Two pa
tients escaped from tho Institution last
nigh't and while at ono of tho Greenwood
avenuo doars of tho tabernacle and ready
to "lilt, tho trnll" wero arrested because
Tho patients wero Calvin R. Maplo and
Joseph S. French, committed from this
city. They arrived at tho tabernaclo nnd
demanded of tho police who surrounded
them to be allowed to hear tho evangelist.
They said they had been devouring col
umns of newspaper accounts telling of
Sunday's -wonderful powers and had
formed n plan to hear him
AVhlio thoy wero strolling on tho grounds
of the Institution yesterday, they decided
that it would to of no avail to ask tho
asylum authorities to permit them to go
to tho tabernacle. So they armed that
the best thing to do was to tlce tempor
arily from the Institution. While attend
nnta were at su.per, th men mado their
escape.
The men were atandlng nt tho Green
wood avenue door of tho tabernacle when
they were noticed by Patrolman John
Kelly, He thought that thoy appeared
nervous and anxious. Approaching them
ho asked who they were. They told hl-
In no uncertain tones and ho Invited them
to accompany him tot he pollco statin,
'the three leaped Intt tho ;ir,trol wagon
and were driven away. latter, n attend
ant took them back to the Instltuttc .
Thoy said they wero very sorry that
iy missed "Billy,"
It Is believed tho evangelist will talk
to the asylum Inmates beforo he leaves
here.
BAN JPHNSON IS ROBBED
Thieves Enter Home and Take Wife's
Coat
CHICAGO, Jan. 15. The home of Ran
R, Johnson, president of the American
League, was entered by burglars last
night, and a Russian sable cape and an
evening gown belonging to Mrs. Johnson
valued at (SOD, were stolen. The burglary
occurred while the Johnsons wero out for
dinner.
AMERICANS FLEE
FOR LIVES FROM
NORTH MEXICO
Exodus of Foreigners From
Bandit-Ridden Zone
Begins
150 ON WAY TO BORDER
Cnrranzista Authorities Aid in
Getting U. S. Citizens
to Safety
I3L PASO. Tex., Jan. IS. Americans
nre Hoeing from northern Mexico today.
Thrrnts of bandltH to exterminate for
eigners, tho murder of n. total of M
Americans nnd ono Englishman in Chi
huahua within the Inst wcok nnd tho
State Department's appeal to leavo tho
troubled districts aro having their ef
fect. A special train sent from Dl Pnso 13 re
turning from Tarral. a mining town In
couthcrii Chihuahua, with about 350
Amei leans, including many women and
children. Fifty-two other refugees ar
rived hero last night. It Is estimated that
thcro nro about 2200 Americans In tho
danger zone.
Cnrrnnra authorities wero lending aid
In sending Americans out of Mexico.
With tho border quiet slnco Thursday
night's rioting In Dl Paso, Interest today
centred In the capture and punishment
of Colonel Joso Lopez's band, which mas
sacred IS Americans nt Santa Ysabel last
Monday.
Nothing has been heard of the Cnr
ninzu detachment thnt loft Chihuahua
City two days Inter to tound up tho mur
derers. To prova thnt General Joso Rodriguez
was captured and executed by Colonel
Maximo Marqucz, tho dead bandit lend
er's body was being brought to Juarez
for Identification by tho American au
thorities. Rodriguez Is held responsible
for tho murder of George F. Parsons,
nn American, nnd Peter Kccne, an Hng
llshmnn Ho was ulso accused In tho
early repot ts with tho Santa i'sabel
mnssacro
rrnnclsco Villa will meet the rnmo
fato ns thnt suffered by Rodriguez If ho
Is captured In their first feeling of
triumph duo tn tho fact that their causa
had bien recognized by tho United States,
tho Cairnni lenders would have been
willing to let Villa escape to American
Continued on Page Two, Column Twn
OSTEOPATHS BLAME
BONESETTER REESE FOR
RUININGBALL PLAYERS
Dr. Charles H. Spencer, of Los
Angeles, Tells of Goocl Done
for Diamond Stars by
- Drugless Doctors
OPPOSE 'TWILIGHT SLEEP'
Stirring Statements Made,
at Osteopathists' Convention
"Billy" Killefer, famous bnseball
player, may bo ruined as a player
as a result of the work done on his
shoulder by "Bonesctter" Reese, of
Younjjstown, O. Dr. Charles H.
Spencer, Los Angeles, Cal.
Mental defectives of Philadelphia
are being helped by osteopathy and
boys, who havo been in the courts,
aro becoming better ns a result of
treatments. Dr. Ira W. Drew,
Philadelphia.
Osteopaths should use serums
just as they should use an antidote
for a poison. Toxine should bo
used. Dr. Arthur M. Flack, Phila
delphia. Osteopaths are too self-satisfied
in their own diagnosis and in lim
iting such to ailments of tho spine.
Dr. L. II. English, Washington,
D. C.
"Bonesetter" Reese, of Youngstown, O,,
today was blamed for ruining the career
of some of America's best-known base
ball players at tho convention of the
Pennsylvania State Osteopathic Conven
tion In the Hotel Adelphla.
It was Dr. Charles H. Spencer, of a Los
Angeles (Cal.) Collcgo, who denounced the
treatment which "Bonesetter" Ree;ia ad
ministers to baseball players who become
afflicted with stiff shoulders.
The -wonders which can be accom
plished with professional baseball players
with sore and stiff shoulders by oste
opathic treatment were told and demon
strated at the meeting by Doctor Spencer.
In this connection he described an opera
tion by "Bonesetter" Reese on a famous
ball plaer, who had gone to Doctor
Spencer for treatment after "Bonesetter"
was through with him.
"Many baseball men are being ruined
by this man," he said, with emphasis.
When asked by a reporter for the name
of the famous player to whom he referred
Doctor Spencer said ho was "Billy" Kil
lefer, and Dr. Edward Q. Drew, this
city, who heard the statement, agreed
with him, saying that he, too, had been
treating Killefer, and that "Bonesetter"
had put him In pretty bad shape.
Doctor Spencer declared that more
baseball stars were 'not' shining on ac
count of shoulder and knee trouble than
anything else, and declared osteopathy is
doing wonders for many,
HELPS MENTALLY DEFICIENT.
"Osteopathy, as applied to bad boys la
doing muoh, said Dr. Ira W. Drew.
Philadelphia when talking on the sub
ject of "Mental Deficiency." "We are
taking boys whq .have been brought up
before the courts, to-called bad boys, but
who are really mentally deficient.
"Thoy are not sent to us by the court,
but by a social organization, the name of
which I do not want to mention at this
time. With osteopathy we are correcting
their abnormalities, and thus bettering
their mental conditions and helping them
overcome their handicaps. We want to
show to the world that soma of tho evils
which were iot amendable t surgery are,
amendable to osteopathy"
EXTRA!
TWO KILLED WHEN SUBMARINE
EXPLODES IN BROOKLYN YARD
NEW YORK, Jan. 1C Two men werejkilled and nine Injured
by an explosion on board the submarine E-2 In diydock at the Brook
lyn Navy Yard this afternoon. A defective battery is believed to
have caused the explosion. The interior of the submarine was found
in flames by the party which rushed to rescue the ciew on hearing
the boom. While a dozen ineu played water into the blaze, others
utshed in nnd began dragging out the injuied. The officer of the
day said that he believed many of the Injured would die in a short
time. Sevetal of the men were dragged from the submarine's In
terior with their clothing in flames. It was first reported that 20
men had been killed. The E-2 had n crew of 15 men, including ono
commissioned officer. , . Lr im t nj
EMMELINE PANKHURST DETAINED IN NEW YORK
NKW YOItK, Jan. 15, Mrs. JSmmellno Pnnkliurst, tho militant suffragist
leader of Hngland, was held up by tho immigration authorities when she
arrived here today on tho liner St. Paul, on tho ground that sho had onco
served a prison term.
Mrs. Pankhtirst took her detention calmly, nntl when ordered to Ellis Island
said hIio believed bIio would finally bo admitted Into tho United Stntcs.
"I do not Intend to do any talking for suffrage," sho said. "My mission
deals with Serbian relief exclusively. Suffrage Is a dead Irsuo In England,
now nnd will rcmnln bo until after tho war."
On her last visit to Now York Mrs. Pankhurst was detained nt Ellis Island,
but was released on her own recognizance aftpr sho had appealed to
Washington. She dcclnrcrl that shc expected tho same outcome In tho present
caBC. Mrs. Pankhurst is here to raise funds for the relief of Serbians.
SIX CHILDREN BADLY SCALDED
Six children of Mrs. Mary Sltvak, of 507 North Philip street, were badly
scalded by tho upsetting of a boiler of hot water at their homo today, and
Helen, ono of tho victims, 5 years old, was so seriously Injured that tho
physicians nt tho IJoosovclt Hospital say sho cannot recover. Tho other
children, their nges ranging from 2 to 8 years, aro being treated at their
homo by Dr. W. S. Hoffman, of C04 North 7th street.
PRJCE OF GASOLINE ADVANCES TWO CENTS
The prlco of pemoline today advanced from 19 cents n gallon to 21 cents.
This Is tho fourth Incrcaso within tho last three months. In announcing tho
increase, the Atlantic Refining Company gavo tho excuse thnt there was a
scarcity of crude oil. Tho latest incrcaso will affect thousands of nutomo-
Nbllists who use gasoline. Gasoline by
a year ago. Announcement was made
York today that tho price of gasollno
countries would be ndvnnced a quarter
NEUTRAL SHIPPING COMPANY CHARTERED
rhllndolphlnns today wero much Interested In a report that o, shipping
company Including somo of the most prominent interests Jn the country (had
made final arrangements to launch a neutral steamship Hue whlcir'Sv6ulfl
ply botweeii Boston, Philadelphia, Now York nnd Calcutta. India. It Is said
to be chartered for ono year. Tho vessels will be SOOO tons each, and. will
mako tho passage by way of tho Capo of Good IIopo under a Scandinavian
neutral flag. Tho names of tho hackers nro being kept secret.
FORD PACIFISTS LEAVE FOR UNITED STATES TODAY
THE HAGUE, Jan. 15. The l'ord peace expedition camo to an end today.
American delegates leavo for Rotterdam late this afternoon. Soverul of tho
Ford lieutenants nre remaining in Holland to help start tho permanent pence
tribunal on Its way. No sessions will be held for several weeks. Besides tho
25 members of tho permanent penco tribunal flvo each from Holland, Nor-'
way, Sweden, Denmark and tho United States 18 other Ford employes,
Including stenographers and advisers, will remain In Holland at Ford's cxpenso.
It 13 estimated that tho tribunal will cost Ford 110,000 a week. Dr. Charles
F. Aked, of San Francisco, nnd Mrs. Joseph Fels, of Philadelphia, have been
added to tho list of Amorican delegates on tho permanent tribunal. Tha
others are William J. Bryan, JIlss Jnne Addams and Mr. Ford. It Is not
Known whether the thrco latter will servo.
BOOKKEEPER STEALS $20,000 PAYROLL
EVANSVILLE. Ind., Jan. 15. George H. Fink, 40, assistant bookkeeper
of tho Hercules Buggy Company, walked into tho offlco today, picked up tho
payroll of $20,000 and escaped with It.
WHITMAN FAVORS HUGHES FOR PRESIDENCY
NEW YORK, Jan. 15. Governor Charles S. Whitman announced today
that ho would support Charles Evans Hughes, Assoclato Justice of the United
States Supreme Court, for the Republican presidential nomination.
"Justice Hughes Is undoubtedly tho choice of the majority of tho Repub
licans of the State and nation," said the Governor. "He will be the best
candidate and tho best President of any of those whose names have been
suggested.
"If he will accept the nomination I am unreservedly for hlra."
TEXTILE WORKERS GET 5 PER CENT. ADVANCE
NEW BEDFORD, Mass., Jan. 15. Notices wero posted In all the .local
textile mills today announcing that tho manufacturers had granted tho
employes a 5 per cent. Increase In wages, beginning next Monday morning.
These notices affect 32,000 operatives and mean an annual Increase In the pay
rolls of the mills of $750,000.
POLICE ASKED TO FIGHT THE GRIP
Every policeman In Philadelphia was requested today by Director of
Public Safety Wilson to co-operate with the Department of Health nnd
Charities to prevent the Bpread of grip. A "flyer" was sent to each station
house calling upon policemen to arrest persons who expectorate on the sUe-
walks and In public places. This was done following a report from several
physicians that many cases of grip have developed as a result of expectoration.
CARDINAL MERCIER IN ROME; PLEADER FOR BELGIUM
ROME, Jan. 15. Cardinal Herder arrived here today, It Is believed he
v. ill seek the aid of the Vatican In behalf of the Belgian people. The German
military authorities havo promised to allow the prelate to return to, Bel
gium at the conclusion of his mission, -
AUSTRIAN CRUISER SUNK; MANY LIVES LOST
ROME, Jan. 16. Heavy loss of life is believed to have resulted from, the
sinking of an Austrian scout cruiser of the Noyara type by the French, sub
marine Foucnult In the Adriatic Sea on Thursday. Official announcement
of the destruction of the Austrian ship is made by the Italian War Offlco. A
message from Durrazo, Albania, stated that numerous bodies of Austrian sol
diers are being washed ashore. This has given rise to the belief that th
Austrtans lost u third ship besides the destroyers Lika and Trlglay,
VIENNA' ASKS U. S. TO TRANSMIT PROTEST TO BRITAlK
VIENNA, Jan. 15, Baron Burlan, Austro-Hungarlon Minister of FpriR
Affairs, today requested United States Ambassador Penfteld to transmit to
the British Government a protest against the arrest of the Austrian, Gurnwn,
Turkish and Bulgarian Consuls at Salonlca.
KAISER ORDERS QUIET CELEBRATION OF BIRTHDAY
BERLIN, Jan. 15. Emperor William In a, manifesto Issued today tmiaire
that the German nation celebrate h la approaching- birthday (January 3f)
wllb. quiet thoughts and prayer. Whoever desires to give special exhibition
to his feelings is urged by the Emperor to do to by gifts tn order to iil
wounda tnfJtcted by tb-e war and In order to care for ol41rrf fawniMes.
tho gallon was Belling at 1C cents Just
by tho Standard Oil Company in Now
which is being exported to European
of a cent on tho gallon.
of This Isaac
