? BOLT everybody who is rea?y interested in Wash
ington, the city's and people's welfare, reads
The Herald. The HERALD avenges more than
30,000 paid circulation daily, which covers most of the
best homes in Washington.
AS first aoootinced January 1. 1916. The Herald
guarantee? ful, money's worth to the pur
chasers of articles advertised m the display columns
of this paper by arty Washington merchant.
? mrcmlmr IWmsked ? ten Keotujtt
-i -_
NO. 3378.
WEATHER: FAIR, CONTINUED COLD.
WASHINGTON. D. C. SATURDAY. ?JANUARY 15. 1916.
ONE CENT.
?, M ?.a?.a??? ax r?!?,?? ?aHaaafaar?
Hrrrl. 1?,???1|?| TWO <????.
FIVE INDICTED
AS A RESULT OF
SPY PLOT PROBE
Charged with Attempting to
Ship Contraband Rubber to
German Government.
THREE PLOTS RELATED
West Side Politician Managed
Rubber Conspiracy, Bomb
Plot, and Thefts, Charge.
ALLEGED FIRE BUG CAUGHT
Spy Responsible for Steel Plant Blaze
Reported Captured?Neutrality
??quad Frustrates Plans.
e-r???! la TI? Vtaabtnsto--? Hani?!.
New Tork. Jan. 14.?These wer? the big
devrtopments today in the international
? py plot Investigation:
First?A woman and four men. Includ
ing m relative ot on? of tbe most Im
portant offici?!? of the Deutsche Bank
of Berlin, were Indicted by the Federal
(rand Jury. They are charged with con
spiracy to violate the customs laws In an
attempt to ship ce%traband rubber to the
German govt-rnment.
Seconda-Department of Justlt? officials
re<*-eived Information apparently es
tablishing the Identity of the ?py re
sponaible for the t4.0DO.00O fir? In the
Bethlehem Steel Plant on November 10.
The steamship Vaubban, which arrive?
tomorrow or Monday. 1? expected to bring
the full ?tory of th? spy's arrest on the
hich seas by the British.
Third?An Inter-relation between the
rubber .--onsplrac-f, the Fay bomb plut
and New Jersey theft? of good.-, intended
for the allie? waa established. Thl?
through the discovery that a West Side
politician was an agent of all three
groupa
Pace ? "? ?? \rmra A piece.
The five Indicted In the rubber plot
(ace Jail sentences of two years each
and linea of HO. 000 apiece. They are:
??ward Welter, cou?w, of Albert Welt
er, chief of the rtfbber d-*r?er;rr??.tit"T)f the
Deutsche Bank, official rep-Mltory of the
German government: Paul Schmidt, pau*t
Oer with W?-*?8T In the Rubber and Guay
ule Agency, Inc., 10* Water street: Max
Jaeger, a German automobile manufac
turer; Richard Wohlberg, a cement and
rubber manufacturer of the Bronx, and
Mrs. Annie Dekkers. a native of Holland
"The scheme complained of was put
Into operation last fall," said Assistant
Vnlted ?States Attorney Harold A. Con
tent.
"Jaeger came to this country then. Be
fore he left the Fatherland he had been
told by Ferdinand Frank, head of the
German Automobile Company, that he
could make a great deal of money by
?ecretly ?hipping rubber to Germany.
"The prop4>?itlon was submitted to Al
bert Weber at the Deutsche Bank.
Jaeger was given a letter of Introduction
to Edward Weber. Edward Weber and
his partner, Schmidt, refused for busi
ness reasons to sell rubber direct to
Jaeger. They referred Jaeger to W'ohl
berg, who has a business In the Bronx.
Official? 1 I ? ?ed Off."
"Wohlberg was persuaded to take part
in the conspiracy," Mr. Content said.
"It ?raa thought best to employ women
runners to get the stuft through. Four
and one-half tons of rubber was pur
chased.
"Mrs. Dekker. a Holland woman, and
an e-tp?srieni-e?J ocean voyager, wa? en
ticed Into the coiisplra<-ry. Part of the
rubb?tr was ?tored In four trunks and
eight packing case? and Mrs. Dekker at
tempted to sail from Hoboken on No
vember tt last on the Holland-American
liner Ryndam.
"She wa? to meet a man with a white
carnation In hia lapel at Rotterdam.
Thia roan waa to see that the rubber got
through to Germany. But th? plans of
the conspirator? were frustrated by Cole
lector Malones neutrality squall, who
had ?been "tipped off" by British agents.
Mr?. Dekker and the others were arrest
ad. Other arrest? In the case are ex
pected."
German? Would Infrease Tax.
Berlin, (via Sayvllle wireleas. Jan. 14 -
The bill Introduced In the Prussian Diet
providing for a super-lncom? tax In
cruaaua th? tax on incomes over I2S.00O
approximately 100 per rent. The Increases
are graded down to eight per rent. No
tax I? imposed upon those whose ln
????? are classed a? "low." Count
Arnim Boitzenburg has be? elected pres
ident of the upper house; Prince Salm
has ticen chosen, vice president, and
Count Eulenburg Passen i-ecretary.
Sight Riders Sentenced.
Lexington. Ky? Jan. H.-A. o. Knight.
h!s son, Edgar, and Georse Stirsman to
day were sentenced to five years' im
prisonment for taking part tn night rider
raid? According to a confession, the
members of the band pledged their
loyalty on an altar of pistols.
Mine Victims ?ecovered.
Gravesend. Kr.?? Jan. 14-The Dutch
seamer Prlnse? Juliana arrived ttxlay
bri g:ng the !x5d1ea of the captain and
?e-.en member.! of the crew of the Dutch
?teamship Maaahaven. whirh vm? aban
don?d on Are after striking a mine ?
th? NVUj ?ca.
?
Would Aid Carranza by
Loan and U. S. Officers
Representative Fred A. Brit
ten, o? Illinois, last night pro
posed an American loan lo Car
ranza and the negotiating of a
treaty for the cession lo the
United States of Lower Cali
fornia as a means of settling
the Mexican question.
"I would favor advancing
Carranza any reasonable sum
up to $20,000,000," Representa
tive Britten said, "with which
to pay his troops and police, as
well as to purchase munitions.
I would even go so far as to
assign ? our military officers to
assist Mexican soldiers in bring
ing about a state of peace.
"In exchange for our gold
and munitions, I would negoti
ate a treaty with Carranza for
the ceding to the United States
of Lower California with its
wonderful opportunity for a
naval base at Magdalena Bay "
FOUR CAUGHT
IN SPY PROBE
Germans Said to Have Escaped
from Interned Warships Ar
rV/ted on Suspicion.
TWO EMPLOYED ON U. S. BOAT
NEAR ARMY COAST DEFENSE
Other Two Lived Within Stone's Throw
of Du Pont Powder Works
at Wilmington.
Special to The Waabins-ton Herald
Wilmington, Del. Jan. 14.?Four
Germans, all members of the German
navy who ar? said to bave escaped
from German warship? interned ln
United State? waters, were ?nested
her? today by Federal agents Two
of th? German? were employed on a
United States dredge boat which was
engaged in work upon coast fortifi
cations. _ -
? The wyem ?rraUted gave' the ?T?lowing
names: Karl Artmann, Karl Klatstein.
F*red Kruger and Karl Erhmann. AhV
mann and Klarstem were at work upon >
the dredge when Federal warrants wer?
served upon them. Khrman aed Kruger
I were employed at the Bancroft textile
mills and lived at a boarding house
known as Uarnrroft Hall, which ia within
a ?ton*? throw of the Hagtey yards
plant of the de Pont Powder Work?.
The arrest? were made by William O.
Crimmins and Harvey Davis, following
an investigation which Is thought to have
t^en inspired by the numerous explosions
at the du Pont powder factory. ..
Originally the Fe<reral authorities had
only one warrant, but further investiga
tion revealed the fact that there were at
least four Germans ln this neighborhood
as ho were wanted for breaking their
parole and fleeing from interned German
warships. Three more warrants were re
ceived, and after the arrests the men
were taken to Gloucester City, N. J.
Tbo dredge upon which Altmann and
Klatstein were employed was doing work
upon Fort du Pont. ? United States
coast defense.
MEXICANS KILL FATHER TOO.
Bod l?-a of Son and Parrot Horribly
Matllatrd. Mother M ??al nu
El Paso, Jan. 14.?R. D. Kramer, an
American and father of Bart Kramer,
who was killed by Vllllsta bandits this
week ln the Guerrera district, was mur
dered at the same time as hi? son, ac
cording to refugee? arriving here tonight
Two sons, Joseph and Roy, escaped with
an American. Locke, going into th?
Minacho district.
The bodies of both the Kramers are re
ported to have been terrible mutilated.
Nothing has been heard of Mrs. Kramer,
wife and mother of the murdered men,
since ?ra? left for Guererro a week ago.
ZUIDER ZEE DIKE BREAKS.
of .Northern Hallaail in Danger
of Bring Klouda-d.
Amsterdam, Jan. 14.?The Zuider Zee
Dike at Katwoude has broken and Zuid
poider is under water, according to the
Telegran*. The Inhabitants of Zuldpolder
have fled to Edam, which is partly un
der water.
The dike protecting Poldereseevang Is
reported to be in danger of breaking. If
it does the greater portion of Northern
Holland would become Inundated
AUSTRIAN CRUISER SUNK.
??'"*??* ?ohmnrlnp I ?ornait Credit
ed With r'.xplolt lay italiana.
Special Cable tn The Wuahlrgtea Herald.
Paris, Jan. 14.?The French subma
rine Foucault attacked and sank an
Austrian cruiser, near Cattare, says
the official statement Issued by th?
war office tonight. ( t*
The Information was rer-eived from
the Italian navy ministry, aay? the
statement.
Bombard German Trenches.
London. Jan. 14.?British headquar
ters report: "In the region of Given-I
chy today? we bombarded ?the German
trench??, damaging the parapet*.
There was reciprocal artillery fighting
, in the nelghboruiaoU of ??????1 ajad i
of Hill No. *0." j
WATERBURY
NOW IN CELL
Alleged Seller of Gridiron
Club Memberships
Caught. ?
HUNTED BY POLICE OF
EVERY LARGE CITY IN ?. S.
Has Been Arrested a Number of Time?
Before on Charges of Securing
Money Fraudulently,
Joles Waterbury, the man who has at
tained country-wide fame aa the alleged
?seller of "fake" membership cards to
the famous Gridiron Club, who lias been
?sentenced to prison for fraud, and who
ha? been hunted by the police of every
larve city In the United States, and every
detective agency G? the country, wa?
arrested In Montreal, Canada, last night.
Tbe Gridiron Club, which Is composed
of noted newspaper correspondents, is
one of the most celebrated and exclusive
clubs In the world. Jules Waterbury.
under that nume, or under various
atlases, has traveled throughout the
l'nited States disposing of life, or an
nual membership cards to this club.
Hla ?activity in thia direction haa caused
his ?arrest twice before last night. Some
Urne ago he was arrested and, after a
sensational trial, was sentenced to sene
eight montha In the Federal prUon at
Atlanta. Several montha ago he was
arrested at Dayton. Ohio, under the alias ?
of Stevens, but despite the unceasing
work of the former president of the club, i
E. C. Snyder. of the Omaha Bee, was
eventually released.
A never ending list of "dupes" showed
that Waterbury worked his way to the
Pacific Coast gradually. Exhausting the
field tn Hi* West, Waterbury worked back
to the East and next came into promi
nenoe when, it is said, he? was Indicted
in New Tork for forgery. It ts said that
he cashed a check lo New York purport
ing to be signed by the president of the
club. The check, in reality, was signed
"Simeon G. Blyche," while the name of
the president is Samuel G. Blythe.
It ls estimated that during his activity
Waterbury has obtained sums ranging
from ??.00O to $15,0U>. The cai* were
sold for $100 and tXO each.
Merchant Robbed
At Point of Gun
Two Negroes Get $10, but
Don't Notice Safe Con
taining More.
A? John A. Clark, a ?torekeeper, $18 Fifth
?treet northeast turned to comply with a
request for candy made by two negroes
last night he looked Into the muzzle of
a big revolver and was ordered to "put
hia hand? up." Half paralysed with the
auddennese of the command and the
threatening attitude of the men, the
proprietor quickly obeyeti.
"While one of the negroes kept the
storekeeper covered, the other ransacked
the cash resister, securing; about $10 In
cash. Evidently fearing they would be
Interrupted if an extended search for
money was made, the burglars did not
even look for a small safe, in which
Clark had Just plactM the proceeds of
the sales during the day. y
VANDEKLIP HEAVILY INSURED.
Banker Joins Flnaurirra I'arrylnu
Policies of More Thaa Bullion.
New York, Jan. 14.?Frank A. Vander
lip, president of the National City Bank
has joined the circle of prominent busi
ness men who carry life Insurance poli
cies exceeding $1,000,000.
The late Thomas L. Shevlln, of Minne
apolis, was tbe most heavily Insured
young man in this country, the total of
hla pollutes amounting to $1,525,000. The
total Insurance paid as a result of the
sinking of the Titanic was lea? than the
Shevlln loss.
WRECK BULGARIAN TRENCHES.
Fk-t-nch Aviators Acquit Tbcmaclvea
?Datatile Saloniki ? :??? reach roen la.
London, Jan. 14.?A French ?ir squad
ron has sailed out of the allies* entrench
ments at Saloniki and wrecked the llrsv
line of Bulgarian trench??, says an
Athene dispatch. Many Bulgarian sol
diers were killed and wound?3d. As a fur
ther bar to tlie advance of the Bulgar
German armies, French engineers have
blown up two more railway bi idges over
the Struma River.
The allies continue to land forces at
Swonika and at Orfano Bay. fifty mile?
to the northeast, snys a Sofia dispatch.
Th-y ha\e completed their second line of
defense.
Gen. Rodriquez on Trial.
Guzman, i.'hihuahua (via El Paso), Jan.
14?A ?-?urt-martlal of Gen. Jose Rodrt
gu-ez, the Villa officer captured on
Wednesday near ?ladera, Chihuahua, by
Carranza trooi's. Is In progress today at
MTKiern, according to official advicea,
which passed through here this after
noon. There Is little doubt that Rodri
guez will be sentenced to de-ith.
Cold Weather limit? Fighting.
London. Jan. II?The terrible weather
which prevails over Northwestern Eu
rope has limited the military activity
on the western front to minor artlllefy
?angagenieat?.
Herald's Guarantee of Full
Money's Worth Indorsed
Advertising Vigilance Committee Commends Newspapers
of the National Capital for Aid in Fight on "Fake" Ad
vertisements?Complaint Committee Appointed.
Tejtt of the Resolution Adopted by
Advertising Vigilance Committee
"Resolved, That we extend to tlie newspapers of Washington
our thanks for the publicity they have given to this movement
against 'fake' advertising and that the secretary be instructed to
so advise these four newspapers ; that the letter to THE WASH
INGTON HERALD include our commendation of the spirit
shown by that newspaper in taking it upon itself to guarantee to
its readers full money's worth on all selling prices quoted by lo
cal merchants in their display advertising column?, as first an
nounced on January i, 1916, and advertised at the top of their
front page every* day for the readers' protection."
Representatives of ten citixens' associa
tions in the District and Ave member? of
the Retail Merchant?* Association were
namcl List night as an Investigating
committee to consider complaints against
persons who use improper advertising.
The committee was selected by a nomi
nating commtttee. consisting: of Dr. I* D.
Walt-r. J. Clinton Hiatt, Horace ?
?.eorse, I*. W. Thompson and M.
I*eese. at a meeting of the advertising
vigilance committee of tbe Retail Mer
chants* AaUtociation, at which Joseph
Berberich presided.
The tnveti.ijrating committee will con
sist of Martin J. McNamara, of the Cen
tral Citizens' Association; A. J. Driscoll,
of the Mid-City Citiaen.?.' Association; J.
Clinton Hiatt, of the Columbia Heights
Citizens* Association; Arthur Copeland.
of the Chevy Chase Citisene' Association;
Dr. Lynian F Kehier, of the Department
of Agriculture; J. Bond 8mith, of th?
Takoma Park Citizens' Association; Dr.
I* D. Walters, of the Northeaat Wash
ington Citizens' A*?o<-iaUon; J. lladiey
Doyle, of the Georgetown Cttlzena' Asso
ciation; Horace. R. Georg?, of,the Park
View Citizen*' Association; ?. ?. Colla
day, president of the Federation of Citi
zen?' Associations, and Joseph Berberich.
Jullua Lansburgh, M. A. Deene, Washing
ton Topham and Sidney Werft, of the
rtetall Merchants' AaMociatioft.
All complaints received ?gainst mer
chant* aa ho misrepresent facts in adver
tising will be referred to thla body and j
the committee ?ill investigate and report '
Its finding to the advertising vigilance ;
committee, after which, if It is found that I
CON-TINTED ON PAG? FOCB.
I
Country Policeman Scores
For State In Mohr Trial!
Lut I
-
"Barrington Police Force" Tells of Frank Confession by
Two Negro Boys-?Damaging Testimony Unshaken
fcj?' Lengthy Cross-examination.
By SOPHIE TREADWELU
Providence, Jan. 14.?A country police
man today proved the most Impressive
witness the Suiti* lias ret produced in
the trial of Elisabeth F. Mohr. accused
of hiring the two negro boys who are on
trial with her to murder her husband.
Dr. Franklin Mohr, on the night of Au
gust 1.
Dr. Mohr was ambushed and murdered
about a mile from the little town ef Har
rington, which, Is about ten miles from
Providence on the road to Newport. One
of the first persons to reach the scene
of the crime was tb? village chief o?
police, Thomas K. Robbins.
iiobbii.j b, known as '"?, he Barrington
Police Force," ?as the town's entire serv
ire Is made up of the chief, hie bicycle,
4%nd his pet blodhound, "Rhoda."
Chief Robbins said he learaeu of the
crime Juat a few minutes after 9 o'clock.
Question?Did you give anyj.siructions
to the police here?
Answer?Yea. th? next morning be
tween 8 and 9 o'clock, I called up the
chief and told him Healls (the chauffeur?
had confessed and I directed him to ar
rest Brown for the actual murder of Dr.
Mohr. The next morning 1 went to
Providence, where Brown and Spellman
were confronted by Healis. Chief O'Neill
asked Brown: "Is it true. Brown, that
Mrs. Mohr promised to give you $2,000 tc
kill Dr. Mohr; that ?he would ?et you
up In the garage business; that the would
give you S-jOO extra If there was any
money left; that she ?ent you to Boston
to buy a revolver on Beach street?" And
Brown said that it wa* true.
It was established that Mrs. Mohr was
not present, and the court instructed the
Jury that this testimony could not be
used agaJnst her.
Q? Did the negroes ?ay anything on
the way to Warron for arraignment?
K? Tee. I ?aid to them, ''what did
you do with the gun?" And they said
if they were near the place they could
tell where they threw it away: so ? ?
told the chaufTeur to drive to Wathlnj- !
ton Road to the scene of the shooting:. I
I opened the door of the car and said. !
"You fellows get out and show me how
you made your e-scape." They got out !
and jumped over a barbed wire fence
and went through the moods to Echo !
l^ake until Spetlm?an said, "rl-sht here !
it was I threw my gun.'* Then I ?asked !
Brown where he had thrown hia gun ,
lie pointed to a spot across the pond
on Lake Drive and said it was there
Cross examination that lasted almost
all day was not able to shake the
testimony of the village chief nor to
destroy anything of the Impression it
created of simple common eense and
honesty.
Jury Gives "Dearie" $2,500 Damages for
Lingering Ki6s From Wealth Engin-eer
Special tn The TC a ab ingioi. Herald.
New York, Jan. 14.?For a short kiss
and a lingering kiss which were given
to her against her will, and to pay for
the distress of two nights ln Harlem
prison. Miss Lillian Conklin. a governess,
was today ?.warded ?,,t?? damages by a
jury in Supreme Court, where she brought
?uit for $5C,O00 damages against George
R. Kaufman, a wealthy mlniiiK engineer
associated with the Gu??senhelma.
Kaufman, who formerly lived at 440
Riverside Drive, where the girl declared
he forced the kisses upon her. will re
ceive the news of the verdict on a sick
TURK PLOT HALTED.
Carman* Prevent Revolutionary l>
rlaln? Is, lonataatlaoplr.
l'ari?, Jan. 11.?A dispatch from Sa
loniki, to tlie Temp? this afternoon, ?ay?
that a (rreat revolutionary plot In Con
ftantin-iple waa foiled by German de
tective*. The object of the plot. It 1*
said, was to kill Enver Pasha, overthrow
the government and expel all the Ger
mane.
A number of high TjrkUh officers are
said to have been Involved in tbe plot
The police guard haa been doubled. In
some quarters It la believed that tbe
story of the plot wa? invented by the
German* to Increase police efficiency.
Ten Steel Milla Planned.
Youngetown, Ohio. Jan. 14.?The United
State? Steel Corporation today announced
tha/ it would ?pend I7.<??.?? on th?? con
struction or ten bar milla at McDonald,
near ??-ar-d. Work will be ?tarted April 1.
bed In Oakland. Cal., wfcere he is SAid
to be dangerously 111.
Describing her first meetins with Kauf- ?
man, the girl said:
"He called ms 'dearie' and it dsaed m?.
I had never been talked to like that
He sit me on his lap and called me !
'dearie' again, and aald a pretty girl!
tike me should not be looking for hou.se- !
wQrk. He said I could have anything?
t iWftSj so pretty?*nd money and auto
rnobilcs would be at my disposa!.
"He gave me one short kiss and then
a lingering kiss," she explained. "It was
the first time I had ever been kissed by
a man.''
MORE ARMENIAN MASSACRES.
MeB Bxeceted| Wemen ?nd Chil
dren Drona.41 by Tarki.
London, Jan. 14.?The massacre of
1,000 more Armenian? In December
wa? reported In a telegram received
today by Viscount Bryce from Ere-1
rotim.
The telegram stated that the l.SAO
Armenian men. women and children,
forced by famine and cold to surren
der, cave themselves up to the Turk
ish governor of Mint.
The men were executed and the
women and children drowned In the
Euphrates. *
The Menace Wins.
Joplin, Mo., Jan. 14.?The publisher? of
the Menace, an anti-Roman Catholic
newspaper, charged with ?endlnc tan
proper matter through th? United Stale?
malls, today were found "not guilt)?," by
a jury In th? radermi Co-art her??.
Gen. Eulaiio Gutierrez,
Mexican Chief, Executed
^jecMl to Tbe VS??liii>tt<.*? ?-va..?
El Paso, Jan. ?.?Cien Eulallo
Outlerrex, formerly Provisional
President of Mexico under Villa. 1*
dead.
Dispatches received today state
that he was executed at Pnchuca,
12C miles north of Mexico City, on
January ?. after having been found
guilty if trea-son to the anti-Car*
ranza party.
The dispatch ?ay* that Gen. Joa?
Rodrigue. Villa's chief aid, was
?hot soon after his capture with
Almeida. The latter'? execution
wa* confirmed.
Reporta received by officers of
the Northwestern Railroad ?say
Rodrigues Is ?till alive. Tbe Car.
ranxa counsel, Garcia, official!} re
ported the execution but railway?
report that a court martial I? tn
pro^peeti ar.d that Rodrigues will
probably be executed tomorrow.
STUBS MAY HIT
GERMAN ENVOY
Von Papen Papers Said to
Show Payments to
Plotters.
MADE LARGE AND FREQUENT
PAYMENTS, IT IS ALLEGED
One Check on Rigg? Bank for $700 to
Werner Horn?Ambewador
Will Not (Comment.
London J?n. It ?The American Ein
basay today Is in possession of paper?
and check stub? which were reiz, d by
Brit.ah officials from Capt. Frans too
Papen. German military attache, ?hen
he reached Falmouth.
It Is under?tcK>d that the doc amenti
will be sent to the State Departm4snt In
Washington.
The papers and check etuos are ?aid
to show that the former Gfrniar. military
attache In the Cnitrd Statea made lare?
and fre?jcient payments to persona who
are charred with blowing up bridge aad
ammunition plant?.
Payment of BM wa? mad? br ? ant
von papen to Werner Horn, according to
the ?tubs. Horn a a? ?"-onvletani of blow
ing? up tb* (JaatatiiiRi Paeutc bridge at
St*, Croix, Me. **'
Rad Rina Baal. Aeraaal.
The check ?tub? show about CM t? ???
The checking account wa? wtth the
Riggs N.tionr.; Bank at Washing
ton, D. C.
Washington ofTlclala ?re Intenoely In
terested In the disclosure? about the
bank books, check stubs and letter?
taken from Capt. Von Papen.
Count Yon Bemstorff. the German Aro
D????dor. returned to Washington last
evening, but he >jad no comment to
make.
If It can be ?hots-n from Iheee rec-ord?*
that the German Ambassador had knowl
<*dge of Illegal and improper use of mon
ey by Capt Von Papen it would present
a serious situation.
It was pointed out. howerer. that Count
?'?? BernstorfT has kept his rt-jcord ab
solutely clear thus far and many in
Washington were Inclined to doubt
whether the evidence would connect him
dirtr-ctly with any improper activities by
Von Papen
KAISER MAY UNDERGO
OPERATION TOMORROW
American Surgeon Will Conduct It.
?Says Hawas Agency Dispatch
Received in Parie.
Suk?** Caule lo '.he 44 a?h:iir *?*: Bft-jld
Paris. Jan. It?Kaiser Wilhelm, of
Germany, mill undergo another operation
?unday al the hands of ?n American
?urgeon. according to a Hava? Hew?
Agency dtepatch.
Conflicting statements as to the afThc
tion of the Kaiser were made here to
day. Dr Metchnlkoff. declared that
when an operation w?s performed upon
the Kaiser's throat three years ago he
was told by the German surgeon that
there was no trace of cancer.
Dr. L^eon Delalr, Inventor of the ar- '
tlftctal larynx, says he was approached
by the German Ambassador to France
three years ?go and aaked If he could
furnish the Kaiser with one of his In
vention?. I'pon being asked the nature .
of the Kaiaer's malady the Ambassador
replied. "can?**?r."
Geneva, Jan. It-It la said that the
Kaiser has a high fever u, ?ci Is very ,
wetak. but continues to make puolic ap-1
pearancses in order to g!ve the Impres
sion that h? t> not an extremely sick
man.
Want $75,000.000 Capitalization. ;
Trenton, N, J., Jan. lt?Application was
mad? here thia afternoon by officiali of
th? United Fruit Company to increase
the <*ap!talt*atlon from Mt. 000.000 to G*.*?.
000.000, divided into 7?0.?? ?hares of tit?
par value each. The company haa 386,943
sharie? outstanding at the present time.
Ford Trip Cotte ???.000
The Hague, Jan H-Th? trip of th*
Ford peace party. Including paaaage
home, will 4??l Henry Ford at least
aes.O?, it was ?aid today by Gaston
Plaintiff, business manager of the expe
dition.
aaltl-t-eor? ud Okie to Italtlaworr.
11.50 round trip every Saturday ?nd
Sunday; good r?. turning until ? a. at-,
Monday.?Adv. ',
BREACH BETWEEN WHITE
HOUSE AND SENATE OVER
MEXICO BECOMES WIDER
Upper Chamber Clamors for Intervention
While Cabinet Decides to Continue Present
"Watchful Waiting Policy
ASKS SUF^ITTFOR WILSON
Senator Stone Cries, "For God s Sake Give Carranza a
Chance?'?Army Unprepared to Enter Mexico. Declare
Experts?Lansing Warns Against Raid*
The breach between the acimtnistration and the United States Sen
ate over Mexico widened yesterday.
The President and his Cabinet met and decided to continue the ad
ministration policy of inactivity and depend on Gen. Carranza to pun
ish the murderers of American citizens.
In the Se?ale, however, there ?as another break of indignation
and demand for intervention. This became so threatening thai Sena
tore Stone, chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee and ad
ministration spokesman, pleaded with his colleagues to support the
President.
"For God's sake, give Carranza a chance,*' he cried in a srjeech on
the floor.
TEXANS PLAN
AN INVASION
Call to Arms Issued for Mexi
can Expedition to Avenge
Massacred Americans.
By JOHN W. ROBERT*
r-rs-ra. tar Tb? Waahlaa-U* Hr-s
El Paa?o. Tex . Jan. It-Despite tb?
nonintervention aullo*?? of the Waata
lnirton adrair.istri.tior, a aecrat mtora
rne'rt ha? beer, launched here for th* or
ranixatioa of ao ? apedttlor te lnsaoe^
Mexioc.
Therouarh'y arouaasi ever ; he conwoxied
?rlrm*T of ???.-i?"*r?? ba- Mexlca*?? ber
lit* a number or American? liartng em
the border hav* drclarrd ther wit. task*
affair? Into their owa hand? ?
? petition rallini for volmsteer? la be
ne circulated. It wa* said that more
ibas ;.SO0 s?cnetures hav? already bin
secured
Practically al: ?abo bar* enrolled hare
t-olumeered lo famish their own outfit*
The ?ss*-ult? Include many prominent
-eside? of El Paso a* well a* ranch
men and fermer members of the Texas
penare ra.
Feartnar arrest by the Federal authori
Je* on the charsr* of plotttn*- a military
?nterpris* against a country at pasace
?rlth the United State* th* men involved
? thl* moi'ement refuse to five out th.
?lame? of the volunteers.
' Senator Stone made his spsach la the
Senat* after he had beea called to the
White House for a half bars-ax's aonfiasBui
with the Pnesident.
Later th* President and hi? ~sM?I
consider??] the Mexican ????????? from
ererr ande at a two hoar's anear?a
Caatlaaa Watrhfal War..
After the meeting It was officially aa
aonaeed at the White Bou?* that the
preseat policy of "watchful waltlat '
?ill not be changeai
Seo?etary of State lassine rettrrate*
wtth th* greateet exnphaaia thai ae pr?s
ent chaare lc policy Is oosHeaapiata*?.
Re dealed an obitjratson o* tbe part SJ
Use Cntted fatales to send troops mlaa
Mexico ta pruni! A meri na??.
W?l?rHlng hit word? tLpumrrmmmr trtttt m9M
p-ratest car*, fan ? its ry Ta?In? aBafsS
"The iirnminsaii hua* a la^sasasslMllKJ,
ta tasa,? aara of Ms ?an?a as ?ar a? t
m able, bat It I? not ?haaiuii to ?a*V
forrs? to alo so."
Whll? the Whit* Ho?*, aad State De
partment were holding wtth tenacity to
their detrrnunatlon to -?tard pat." tb?
ncht In the Senate for intervention ?rea
ooatmaing to ?et?
Hi*,?tor Works, of Callfornlsv, rtmrwaS
the battle by Introducing a rraolutio?
directing tbe President to Ita, a east,
lalrrssallaa M aaa? W*s.
"Iniarrseation meara? war,"
tor Works, "but Cong-res* Bust
responsibility a*aurac*K>aai7 aad ?tthout
?Salar." He declared ta?
for solaing the Mexican
too great fan- the President to bear aloae.
The army was drswn lato the Mexican
ooxTiitcen ?s"paei roca.
WHAT CAN
YOU .GET
FOR THE
OTHER 4 CENTS
That You Will Not Find in the. Not)
ONE-CENT
SUNDAY HERALD
which offers
a Counter-attraction
of superior merit
for ever y fea ture of ?
the o ther sund a y papers
for which you pa y
5 CENTS
If you haven't time to look up your doler, just phone Main
330(i and ask for "Circulation," or ?drop in at our 1322 New York
avenue office
and ycu will find it on your
doorstep? beginning tomorrow morning
You can get this home Su a?*, .?ehverv service ererv week
? gei
:en"
O?
a^a
for ONE CENT?or the Da.h and S un da ? ev-ery dav ijt 3C
CENTS A MONTH.
