AjLBID QUERQUE MORNING JOURNAL.
CITY
EDITION
CITY
EDITION
rrKTV.hKVKXTll vi:n.
' Ol.. (.M IX.
Willi TH1T I
UK LI I Mill i nil i
CIH HAVE
OPPORTUNITYTO
RESTORE ORDER
ALBUQUERQUE, NEW MEXicOiSATURDAY, JANUARY 15, 1916.
Dally bj Carrier or Mall, 60
h Month. Hlnl Ooplea, Ba
THE WEATHER
WKATIIKlt FORECAST.
Denver, Jan. 14. New Mexico: Sat
urday cloudy with locul snow in north
and ruin in south portion. Sunday
e'oudy.
I.OCAI, YVKATIIKH KKIOBT.
For twenty-four hours, cndlnfc at
fi p. ni. yc.itjrday:
Maximum tempera. ure, 46 degrees;
minimum, 22 degrees; range, 24 de
grees; temperature at 6 p. m., 45 dc
(trees; Houth wind; cloudy.
First Chief Promises Through
Ambassador That All Ban
dits Engaged in Massacre
Will Be Punished for Crime, i
CITY HANK CI.KAIUXGS.
Yesterday
S7,12u.4."i.
MORE
RESOLUTIONS
FOR INTERVENTION
tho republicans with Insincerity of
purpose and necking to make a politi
cal Issue. .Senator Stone after his
conference with President Wilson, wild
intervention in .Mexico at this time
would he monstrous In the face of
the fact that the United States has
'Just recognized Carranza. He de
clared that to intervene would be
! playing Into the hands of Villa and
j Zapata, who sought for purposes of
revenge to make trouble between Car
ranza and the I'nited Slates.
.. , lcUll to tho Bat Attain.
f j J i i I I ,-"cniuor i.ewis insisted mat tno re
Uraerea tO InVade-publicans,' despairing of any other
political issue, sought to make. Mexico
a paramount issue, but would fall. To
intervene in Mexico, he asserted,
would turn South and Central Amer
ica against the I'nited States and do-
ulr..,. v. .11, . I. ...... 1 1,. ..nu .r
V MORNINU JOURNAL IMCIAl L1U0 WIRf "'e "' I' iuinm n
Washington, Jan. 14. General ! ,no aaminlsiratlon with European hel
VILLA HIS ONLY
F
ORTY MEN WITH
III ACCORDING
TO lit TREV1NQ
Works Wants Presi
of
Senator
dent
Mexico for Punishment
Outrages on Americans,
Mr, Watson, in Charge of
Americans on Train, Refus
ed Escort of Soldiers, Com
mander Asserts,
IMPOSSIBLE TO FORESEE
RAID OF THE BANDITS
All Will Be Hunted Down and
Slain; Declares Escalon Has
Not Been Taken; Shows
Confirmatory Telegram,
SOME ANXIETY
FOR AMERICANS
EN ROUTE FROM
CHIHUAHUA CITY
.No Further Demonstrations inj
tl raso Against Mexicans,
Who Reappear Upon the
Streets Without Molestation
RODRIGUEZ EXECUTED
BY CARRANZA COLONEL
out of Mexico arrived safely oil the
American side of the herder.
(en Itoilrlituct Fvt utctl.
Confirmation of report of tho exe
cution of Cell. Jose Rodriguez by Col.
McXlmo Martinez was received
coup!."! with the statement that his
body would be brought to Ju.iri. for
verification by Americans of the ac
tion of the Ciiiran.a government.
Mall advices from Torrcon brought
details of the occupation of !oliii7.
Palaclo by the united commands of
Calexto Controras, Canuto KcytM and
redro Moreno and other advices were
that Ari umetlo had reacheil a point
roar p.crmijollo. This was not con
firmed. The same source reporti d I In
liKnia district in the hands of aiiti
Carranza forces.
An official report from (leu. ,1m in-
Ito Trevlno said hands of Villa bandit
would be exterminated w hel ever
found.
While the Cniranza consul slaletl im
armed force would be permitted to
enter Mexico to aid in the termina
tion of Villa bandits, it was laid here
that such a movement i being organ
ized along l he bonier
V MORNINU JOURNAL RRICIAL LKUO
Chihuahua City, Chihuahua, Mexico
Jan. 14
Body of Villa. General to Be
Brouoht tn ft order for Veri
fication by Amciicans WhoU.!.'
Demanded His Death,
WILL SEND CAVALRY
TO HUNT DOWN VILLA
.it'll. Francisco Villa hits
men with him in the (iuer-i
ligerents. Senator Fall, republican,
meat of Mexico are to be Civen ful assaneu tno administration and bitter-
opportunity, without intervention;1!' littackPd Carranza, declaring
tr.in, ih. T-oltf.,1 t-,,., t.jeveii Senator liall would be amazeu,
.,,r,i, t!., Tmir,ier..i- ,.f ,,,..!. !at his recognition l,y this government! ''"''Vino, comniamler of the northcast-
izens at Santa Ysabcl, and to demon-!coultl m' Hl'u wU'H r,'om th'' Hni?.ilian j ci n corps of the Carran.a army
strut" ability to restore order and !"linitit,'r' formerly in Mexico City, re- ions Interview Riven here toduy
protect foreign rights in the southern ,.""". - "' """ tiuu.ii,t. owlm... ; untenant Colonel
FIltST
i
hot fnrlv
l,ullJ... - .1,...-, . . I'
mi.. uiNiiH-i, uecoruing 10 lien. Jacinto!
Trt
ioTi(.i:r of
iti:iT.i:i;s AKici vi:s
republic. j
This was the outstanding fact herei
toniKht after a meeting of the cab-1
inet, a conference between President;
Wilson and Chairman Stone of the;
senate foreign relations committee,
and another day of stirring debate in
the senate.
Position Is fwtliiieil.
Administration leaders firmly out-!
lined in the senate today the posl-j
tion of the government jn the fact:'
of denunciation from tht republican
side and another resolution directing
intervention proposed by Senator j
Works, of California. At the state i
department officials were
official word from General Carranza
in reply to the demand lnadt
him to seek out and punish the bandit
j villa officer, who was
.Santa Ysabcl today and
'being concerned In the
Nevarres, a
captured at'
charged with !
massjicre at
; ct i dinK to General Trovlun.
j No Murders in Matlcia.
in a
Carrana outrages. Senator!
the war of April 21, I'.H4, against Ilu
elia, had been successfully terminated
."inasmuch as Mr. Hu,rta had Just
I difd in jail." jtliat point on Monday last, was bein
j Senator Stone toniKht said the for- j hrotiRht to the capital toniKht, ac
eiKn relations committee would not
i meet until next w eek, when President
i Wilson is expect eil to send informa.
j tion rogardinK the recognition of the' There was no truth in report in Kl .
arranza government, requested in , t a.so, of turther killing of foreigners i
Senator Fall's resolution. Chairman ; in Madera, western Chihuahua nr.!
I Flood, of the house foreign affairs 'cording to General Trevlno His!
Icommittee, said his committee would ; Carranza commander also
inot consider Mexican intervention res-j that the Americans slain M
wiuihiim to, nume ii .a leiini. ; nama isaoel naci reluseil a
i Intiislfiit IVitni l-l Past). i'i:f,ii-t t
nvaiting ,.,.,.,,, .,,,., , ,.,, .., , , ,
, . .. p. ... uiiiii an nihiunniii anti i. oiurcras i
! AmeriruiiH at Kl Paso to enter Mexico j are not oocratinir between T.. ,-,.. ,n. i
UpOll j.i.i. f, miui-.r.. .,rij;,ni7.:iti(1n tA their:. ..i 1 1, 1,.., i.t . , ..... IV
...... .. ...0. v i'nu uir i.Ljuuti, nuiti vicoent ire-;
own, apparently is not. taken serious-1 vino. "They have taken to the hills1
week to
Kl Paso, Tex., Jan. I t. Fifty
two Americans, inchnliiig a num
ber of women anil children, ar
rived here tonight at 7:15 o'clock
from Chlliuuhuii City. Their sufn
arrival from the reyjou where
Villa bandits signalized a renewal
of warfare with the .slaughter of
eighteen Americans last Monday
gave a measure of relief from
the strain that, border residents
hav,. undergone; but it was tem
pered by tht fact that mote than
ISO Americans still remain in
what is deemed the danger 7,0110.
The latter, it was hoped, would
reach American territory, aboard
a special train Monday This train
I'oUKlas. Ariz,, Jan. 14. I'erinis-
(0 send liOll cavalry troops
through American territory from
Catianea, Sonora, to Juarez, opposite
F.f Paso, has been requested by Car
ranza authorities, according to an
announcement tonight at Agua Prie
tu, the Mevican town opposite hele.
i The cavalrymen are to ho usetl in
! t ln campaign against Villa bandits
j In western Chihuahua, It was slated.
y I It was not known when t lit? proposed
fcJ troop movement would be begun or
:nt what point the Carranza soldiers
J would he brought across the border
'1 into the fnitetl States,
j. 1 (Hflcers ni' the Catianea Cotisoli
,! dated Copper company here denied
that any Americans had been killed
recently in the Canaiioa district of
i'onura. Tiny said that conditions
there were quiet. KulUorx of the
murder of three Americans in that
district were received in 101 Paso.
SEIZURE OF VON PAPEN'S
E
CORRESPQNDENC
FURTHER ACTIVITIES OF
GERMANS IN THIS COUNTRY
SENSATIONAL DISCLOSURES ARE
MADE OF MONEY USED FOR
CAUSE OF THE FATHERLAND
Consul at New Orleans Expects Time to Come When United
States Will Be Called to Account; General von Bcrnhardi
Writes From Poscn Headquarters of Propaganda Car
ried on in Newspapers of America, and Admits That
in West, Where Big Attempt to Break Through Is to Be
Made, "We Have Serious and Difficult Times to Look
Forward to"; In Other Letters Plans and Proposals Are
Referred to Mysteriously; Money Is Shown to Have Been
Sent to Werner Horn, Who Tried to Blow Up Railway
Bridge; Funds Forwarded to Consul at Seattle Just Be
fore Explosion in That City.
declared) V':1M s('nt f,'ei'i Kl Paso lasl night,
nday atj'
niililm v
and according tit advices received
by Cnited Slate officials, arriv
ed at Parral tonight. The refu
gees who arrived tonight said the
special train pa-aetl through Chi
huahua City this morning.
..uiu..i.,n. ,y bv tj(J sUl) department. Secretary 1 of Durango
While, no direct communication LanslMK salu tlm in BUoh a cu.se the! "I shall leave next,
troni General Carrmua had reached responsibility was that of the depart-sue them," he added.
me suite uopanmeni lonigui, a mcs- i ont tlf jllBUce ttlui military, but he
sage from him to Eliseo Arredondo, I intiniated that such a movement, since
the Mexican ambassador designate, jt W0H)rt be a violation of the neutral
announced tho despatch of troops tOjitv ,,.. would be checked,
capture the outlaws and his purpose; "charges made by citizens of Kl Paso
pur-
l MOR Nl NO JOIIKNtL 0PECIA1. If ! WIKI)
REMOVAL OF CLARK TO
1 CAUSE NO PROTEST
t' fr MOMNINI1 JOURNAL SPECIAL LtAC0 WlftV
,s. Washington, Jan. 14. Removal of
4. J Albert Clark, a prlvato In the Cnited
.States army from the American
,i I steamer Kunt.v Maria at Jamaica, is
not expected to result In a protest
from the stale department, officials
said today that as the removal occur
red In Itrltish territorial waters ami
Clark was release, later, tho Prltlsh
11,500 Villains Yield.
M Paso, Tex., Jan. 1 4. Three of j authorities apparently lind acted wlth-
int. viciiins 01 ine naina isaoel, &iex-
11.1
to visit "punishment upon every par
ticipant In the massacre."
This message was regarded at tin
slate department an aft indication 01
the character of the formal reply to
.Secretary lmslng'u representation?
which is expected not later than to
morrow. Pandit Hunt Is On.
The Mexican embassy was without
oilier advices regarding the bandit
hunt.
(ieiieral Obregon was said to be at
Queietaro, where he had been sum
moned for a general conference, and
it was regarded as likely that ho
would remain there, the work of run
ning down the, Villa, fortes about
Chihuahua being left in t lie hands of
Onerals Oavlra and Trevlno.
Measures to facilitate the removal
of Americans from districts where
their lives might be endangered were
discussed by department officials with
Mr. Arredondo, who later advised
General Carranza by W'ire that every
assistance be given such Americans
and escorts provided to accompany j
them int cities where strong garrl-1
against American Consul ICdwaids of
Juarez were received during the day.
Jlr. Lansing said he saw "ho necessity
of replying."
WOULD BUILD TWO
BATTLESHIPS
OF
More than 11, .'(in Villa soldiers and;1"'0, massacre
forty-two generals and their subordi- Pomero and
i nates have surrendered and re- terretl today
! reived amnesty at Chihuahua City)0" the part of American whoso
i within the last twenty days anil given threats against Mexicans led to the
j up their arms, horses and saddles. j establishment virtually of martial law
j "1 regret that a number of Ameri-jln the city last night. Only one
j calls have decided to go out and l;solirco of anxiety remained tonight
jhope they will soon regain their con-l'he. safety of a party of Americans
fidence and return. 1 shall provide wno ,,ft Chihuahua City early today
I escorts for such movements. 'on a special train. This train, accord-
j "It was impossible to foresee the 1 i ' advices received late today, was
sudden appearance of those bandits. !un to arrive at Juarez tonight.
hi their rights.
The principle that any nntlon may
Thomas Kvans, M.
.1. 1 v.0011, were in- d'-tam for examination jiny tiUHjientntl
without demonstration Urn.,, i 11. n, -i,,.,.nn,.ii
1 . j v. , . , , , . ...
waters has long been established In
lnlernatlonal law. It is pointed out
that such removals havo an entirely
different status from those occurring
on the high seas. ,f ;
CREATES
T
POWER
!bnt Mr. Watson, heading the mining
'men on the train, probably thought he
would be better oft without the mill
tary escort which he refused.
.. .Campaign Over in Chihuahua....
1EII f FO
OUTRAG
UPO
I
IntM'iidlar.v 1'osters In Juarez. 1
Heports were current that incen-i
diary posters were being circulated In
Juarez, declaring that several Mexl-
inns hml been killed in the brawls!
I havo done everything possible to that attended last night's demonstra
hheld friends get the bodies over to tlons here, but Mexican consular offl
, the border. From a military point oficlals declared they could find none.
View J consider the campalg In Chi- Mexicans who for the sake of safe-!
iiahua. state finished and there are ty were remilrcd to stay within doors;
lata night during Hid deiiionstralloiiH . . ,
about 300 in all left. Iresnltinir f nun lh murrlei iif ilu. I Pi pylr nut run nmpi tA in I 'in
I I rti- IK mnh "Tt.,iut.ir..t.t,,.. n.t..t..u urt, !...( V nl I............ 1.. t 1 II.. I in., t.... it. J
V ," , X , . has but forty men left with him. As ' day, reappea red on the si reels today! SII1C Pl'CSCIlt RCQUCSt tO
UlinS, hlgneSt oPeeCl alia the law of Henlto Juarez permits any In numbers. Many of the nenibers!
1 fnn mlU Prn!c!nrr RoHinC "ffillal execute offenders caughtlof the "cientifico" element, showed)
lUUU-llie L-IUIblll naUIUdjrC(j.hani.d without -court-martial, the themselves at the bier r Cen. Vleto-j
, ibandits will soon be exterminated. 'riano Muella, the former president of
j "This law was applied already to'tlmir country, who died last night, the!
Iir wmimii wwL mcii imu m.'ii J,. K0.caiimi (leneriils Hodrii-UeZ ami ! oriMoii...- ,,t Hi.. Ameiicn r,.v..rm..,.i !
1 1 ..... 1. 1 .. T . m It ftt.ii.i l.tt.l u ' .. o , ...
VWtMUIIS.U.I, . c.., i A tll.eill:,. . U.l.iel. Iw. . , I,, lie.l
Mirny Hnnornl Rnnrrl PmnnRns'0"1 various small bands aggregating
iiuvjr uiimiui ulhiu 1 ivuvvv about
ES
GREEKS IS ASKED
sing Present Kcqucst
Congress for Appropriation
of $-41,000.
forces
w tiere
thoy
points
tllsplace
highest
3fi,-
tpeed
BY AMERICAN FLEET'
Huns are miiint.ilneil. He went fur
Hut than the state department sug- teries of ten 16-inch guns, each and j "Xh(. report that the Villi
Bested, recommending that in cnscsa eruising radius of nt least !V Ooo j have taken ICscalon is untrue."
foreigners objected to leaving, j mncs ar(. the general characteristics! Ceneral Trevlno showed telcit:iamti
be forcibly removed to ' board forf" ,1,e commander there dated lo-
of salety. .. .. ... , ,u might stating that all was quiet there.
Americans Stick Safety I m'w ",n ,u, j He said he would provide an escori
That large numbers of Amer.,.,. M ' M,r' the refugee special now en route
are leaving northern Mexico-was re- V- , ! fro" 1 "n"''
horted to the department, but it Is U W learned tonight that the , nrnnnn
estimated thr.t not counting the mem-i boaru proposes inni me sou s w- ; r VV M 11 U U I nLUUnU
hers of a Morr.-.on colony at Casus :om 1 ,otiu,u uu eacn,
(;r:iinle tlw.r mt 1.1 Pm-ral. 1 000 tons, and have the
1'uraiigo, Madera and other points, ! attainable without sacrificing arma
he control of which bv Carranza Is ! m-nt, armor or tuel capacity,
doubtful, more than 300. That the j It would have them represent a
majority of these mav remain in," per cent In gur. power and en
Miite of warnings, is feared. j durance over any American battle-
m..... l . . , : -shin afloat I or authorized and carr.
'o'fii i-ecrt.-iurv L.ansiog was ' "
whether tho United Slates would pro-! the biggest guns ever placed
tt' t its citizens muter such circum-I a ship
bailees, he replied that it would do ;
"to the best of Its ability," but
'hitt in such cases the government!
would not be obliged "to use force ;
where people are. indiscreet." Hej
fumpareil the situation in Mexico:
'V MIlftNINQ IUUHNAI. HPfcCIAt. IKACfiD Wlftfl
Washington, Jan. U. t'lvxiilciil
luiceia s iiotiv i-iiki'ii 111 ault. , Wilson t,nb,v aNliei congress to
Hueria's boil",
uiiiform of a. Alt
garbed in the showy f pinpi j, lie $11,0.10 for liidemiiition
xicaii general,
ep-
to
that
Not
in
ird
however, wi
'one replied:
1
(tV MOHNINd JOUHNAL SPSCtAL LtASKO Wlft( ' .Vt.'iirS.
Washington, Jan. H. (iunners of) At tile same
the Atlantic fleet made during 1 ill 5 , no re'tpiest for
the highest averages of tin fleet's his- i general's body
tory for target practice In the upon (been made to
sea. This became known today in i on-; first chief of
neetion with transmission to the .sen-'ment of Mexico, through
ate of the annual report of Admiral j agents here or nt Juarez.
Fletcher, commanding the fleet, I Draped in Mexican
was 1 ( 1 reet
placed temporarily in a vault here thisjon ai
afternoon. There was no ceremony, j jecls
religious or otherwise. That, said February L'l, liion
members of his family, would a wait j Lansing joined in
tne tune wnen uiey couiti take the printhm "as ,.n net rf grao and wllh
casket of the. f.-rmer presltleill of, referei to the liability f lie
Mexico to the capital of his country. ! Ciiitetl .Stales."
oeo tan;iii.!i oiutaaiH iei. ai-Heu. ' ,,. aniollnl.s rec,,oi,.i..,i,l,..l
n that lime might he, initio t,, I lie niiverimient of ( ii
i', Austria-Hungary and Turliev
count of injuries to their sub
in the South Omaha ,,
He i,n, Kecrelai;
askliiK the appio-
(Uy Monti n
l.ontloii. Jan. 11 ( r. p. m.y-Cop-iea
of correspondence seized from
Capt, l'liiii, von rapen, recalled tler
1111,11 military attache at Washington,
ttln'ti he rciichrtl I''aliiii.ulli ,m his
way to C.eim my, have been tinned
over to the American embassy for
transmission to the slate department.
They show that Captain von Tapon
mailt, freipient payments to persons
charged with the responsibility to
blow up munition works and bridge
in tho fulled States.
one entry shows that Captain von
I'apcn gave $700 to Werner Horn,
who was convicted of blowing up a
Canadian Pacific railway bridge at
St. Croix, Ale. The day before this
check was Issued, the Herman em
bossy paid $2,000 in to Captain von
Fapeii's uccotiul.
Another stub check shows that
about tWu weeks before, tun stbson
In Seattle on May ,10, 1015, Captain
von Fallen sent ,i()0 tn the Cerninn
consul at Meal tie. In February of
I 91 B he sent Jl.fiOO to the Cirmnn
consulate In that elly.
Captain von l'apeii's check stubs,
bank books and letters from his bank,
the Itiggs National bank of Wash
ington, showed about r.eii items, many
of which had to do with routine ex
penditures. Others, however, reveal
ed pnymilit.s to 'various persons who;
have figured prominently In the ac
tivities of Cieiniaii agents in America
anil In .1' least one spy who com
mitted suicide In a cell In an Fng-
lish prison.
In January. I HI,",, f'apialii von l'a
pen gave a check payable In Abslck
and company. New Vork. bin with
the name K. Kuepfcrle in brackets oil
the ol uli. This in believed to have
lefcrcnco to the man named Kuep
fcrle, who, after being arrested In
Kngland on a charge of espionage,
1 1 tin 111 it 1 suicide, leaving a written
confession in his cell.
"As an example of the size of the
nplajn's financial operation, )n:(,
bank book shows thai in J.inuarv of
IHlTi, he received
1(1, tno and paid out If"
lour lull-resting
The following four
among Captain von I
a
llioiisan d
a re
time i! was staled thai
permission to take the
lo Mexico City bail
V nustiano ( 'arranna,
t he recognized govern-
any of his
i$S00 to Austria-Hungary and S.M0
Turkey.
! Secretin' Lansing sav.s
I port that approximately I,
were 01-
ith that in Kuropc at the
''1 Hit; war when Americans
dend out.
Xo Intervention Now.
I'ehate in the senate brought out
positive declarations from Senator
Hon,, and Senator Lewis of Illinois
that there would be no countenancing
'f the demands of republican leaders
lor intervention, and both
! In transmitting fie report. Secrc
jtary Daniels wrote a letter explaining
ithat ci rtain matters touched by Ad
mirnl Fb'lcher of a purely military
nature have been omitted, as it Was
by any power.
inilleiitiinifi however, are that art
,,,... .he 000-ton shin of I he Fletcher, commanding the fleet, i Draped in Mexican ITim
California class finally will be decid
ed upon by Secretary Daniels.
Opinions differ aim ny .Mr. Daniels'
advisers as to the advisability "f in-j-
...... i...a. i. ...
1 ; n, i.ri:K iil- ine size I.I ou Li n-.-u. 1
'"'" I -V " , . .'. l...li..ve,l
I.-..I.U.. i f nunv nil unions 01 uni 1.
icilitlcs and channel depth. j unwise,
i t .,..r .l l.oarrl reached its eon- ' It 'as
' . ... ..,.n,. ,,t l.icuer ! nii'iit. that the admiral's report dwelt i upon it lay his j' wi led sword, tin
' battleship after a study of events
'abroad. The reasons lor raising the
' cruising radius from H.OOO miles, as
Ihe California class, 10 i",V"i
their publication would be
learned at the navy depart-
Tin., body of lluertu waH laid in
state ill the hou.-a, on a side street,
which had boon occupied by his fam
ily and retinue while he was a prison
er of the I'nited Stutis at Foil Whs,
on suspicion that he was planning a
new revolt in Mvn'". vllis casket wits
draped in the .'bxiean fl.igg, and
' up..,) the shorty;
jon vessels of
in
The Day in Congress
bill'
na-
SEX.VTK.
Senator Cummins introduceil
to reorganise and increase the
tienal guard.
Senator Works, republican, intro
Uecil a resolution for armed inter
voition in Mexico.
HtU sT-
Alilitary an.l naval affairs eoniniit
toniinutd hearings.
way and means committee held
hr-n hearing on Hill bill to protect
American manufacturers of dyestuffs.
charged' have not b. en disclosed, out pr
.. . , -1 Mc had to do with the great
iHin-e ot l ie rat ine oi cj...
The board did not moninvn.l an
specific speed to be reached, advising
nnerelv that the H-knot gait of thej
tl'.resent first-line ships should be in-j
creased as much as possime wimoin
reducing the armament, armor or fuel
capacity. j
in his re
:U0 Creeks
were driven 1 10m the city during the
: riots, and (hat prior to the riots there
had been a feeling of hostility against
I the creek subjects resident in South
j Omaha because of their lawlessness
jainl manner of living 111 unsanitary
I nil poindings.
I The riots grew out of the sliooljmi
I of Foliecnmn Fdward t.owry,' Fehru
j.iry 19. I nmi. by John Masuurl'les. a
i;ree, whom the officer had alliid
led. The subjects of other Ci.lllltl'e:i,
! Secretary Lanon;,' said, ''suflereil
Mioni the luiy ol the niob. because
illirv prohably were mistaken for
J Greeks." Some of the rioter;.' were
arrestetl but nobody was convicted.
' Ol i-ece iirkt rl 1 ,13, .'.33 indemnit.
j Acsiria-lliiiigai v t j , ! s - and Turin
! l.M
are
pan
over
I Irs 1
bur;;
to 1
follows:
"New
'Dear
Ml lea
III IT
Journal Special Leased Wire.)
UaBlc,,lly. The luCMident this limn
lias talked u bit too big even for
those who Mipport him. F.ut we are
all of the opinion that the depiirturo
of you and your collenRue Is n seri
ous Ions for tin, Though a majority
of those present hod carrcy had an
opportunity for knowing y0u person
ally, a privilege which hn been a
great pleasure, lo me, yet vour ef-
j forts have always been especially
1 npoken of and nioro perhaps than
j you think, i think, then fore, I am
speaking In tho nanio of all when
1 express to you the thanks of all of
us for your faithful vlHllanoe ; and
unremitting labors under tho roost
difficult circumstances and to this I
add my own special thanks for your
attention to my little vropoHiils.
Ki'fors to Mysterious 1toPmiK
"It's not surprising lji,vtw of the
ftictitlotis neutrality uj he i.renidciit
that tho end should hiivfc been put
to your work and yon must carry
back with you the know-ledge that
you have done your duty according
to the best of your ability as long as
It was possible. Our people never
forgot this of you.
'I w ill Kindly comply with your pro
posal to .i-'eiid a line from time to
1 line and It would, ho very pleasant
for ine lo receive one from you oc
casionally, (.specially Jf by proposals
you mean such as could be dls-
iii.'heil with soiiit, gentlemen of the
I Herman house of Columbia Cnlvt r
sitv. I am keeping an eye on tho
I mutter specially ment ioned. With
best wishes, Yoiil's.
"Dlt. .Ml'FLLKII."
Vou llcrnliardl Writvs.
The third letter was written by
ileneial Frederick A. J. von lUrn
hardi. 11 follows:
' I'osen (Iciieial I loaditu.irtcrs,
"11-1-15.
"Dear Captain:
"I beg lo thank you most sincerely
for your kindness in sending ine a
copy of the New York Sun containing'
my two articles. I am glad to hear
tht'iie ariiclcH will. In your opinion,
I have a good effect as far as that at
jail poKilble in AlUTka. ""V aivertls
lound j nv manner in which they publish
tilings Is, of course, thoroughly Ameri
can. A private communication of
mine has been printed without any
authority from me. 1 have now writ
ten two further series of articles fur
America. The foreign office wanted
r 1 to have the first of these, entitled
I 'i iei iuany and FugiaiHl,' distributed in
ii.-, iei ember I. inli'i. j II,,' American press anil Ihe other en
voi! Papon: j titled 'l'an-( lei iiia nlsm' ('.') was to ap-
al 1 egret, that, the pear In the Chicago Tribune. I slloiilil
indeed overcomo be very grateful If you could forward
appt'oxlmat
..OOO,
l.eller-.
letter
'.ipell'
iy
fleets
t.iisi.ltii oil the uiosl 1 nt , 1 ' f t i n i;
of the corrt'spomlciief tinned
to the Ainelieaii embassy. The
is a letter irom II. Von Aleveii-
lliliiian consul at New inh aus.
iptain von Papeii. The bit
I
llerlick Stsks Senatorship.
Cleveland. O.. Jan. H Myron
w..rriik former ambassador
France. toniBbt annoum-ed
.lsec for failed States
T.l
to
his camii- ,
senator, sub- 1 manner.
;e of ol fleers and men gold laced thapcau he had worn oil
the fleet. Secretary 1 slate occasions as president of Mexico,
! Daniels' letter is understood to have and the gem-stars and ordei-s that be
istated that this condition already had, decked his breast as the heal for a
I been overcome so far ns II could he (brief time of the Mexican nation,
within the present authorized limits ofl Candles burned at the head of the
'strength of personnel. ; casket, behind two ot his lormor mill
i ,. itarv staff w ho acted as guard of lion
1 NAVAL RESERVE BILL !'; '', -
1 'women garbed 111 bla. k. ,
PRtStNltlJ IN SLNAIU ", rak.s i.a'i,
, 1 Mayor Tom L-a. who was Hueria's:
.v mo. nino journal nciM.Lf amo w,ii Jattoriiey, was one of the half dozen .
I Washington, Jan. H. Kenatol j Americans who passed neiore tin.
i Tillman, chairman of the naval af- ket for a last look at the man
1 r.lru .....-, mil, I0.I1.1.. IntroHoceH i.ihM.le defiance to tile L'nit,
Cnited States naval land forced the battle at vera i rut !,, ...... , ... .... u.... .....
of which would not which cost Ihe lives of twenty Amer- government amnesij, were Kllieu ny
1,500 ARMENIANS ARE
MASSACRED BY TURKS
, V MORNtNO JOURNAL fcRRCIAL LIAGKO WIRE
Loud Jan. II, (10: 1" p. in.)
cas-1 .tii'i' loin. MINRI.B u..i.,i ai ,.1.
whoitliat l.i.00 Sasum Armenians who
States w-ei'e lorced by cold and famine lo
"I read with
laic of lei-all h
vou. 1 don't suppose 1 1 01 1 ymi are 11
verv imhappv to be able to shake the 1 They
iin.,1 of tins iiiilrleiidly country from
0 If vour feet. What cbiiflv otliiuls
nie is that in alwavs giving way to
tile government In-le we have ll'ver
loiind thai ihev at' k 1 11. 1 1 (llsposerl
toward us. Th n the ilim.ind lor the
recall has been so sudden and be
lated throws an interesting Icjlit up
on the government here. May theic
also the tl.'i v o reckoning come anil
our government find again that iimi
determination -villi whi'h alone ohm
1 an make an Imprei-ston here. j
"Hoping that our connection torin
ctl in this great time will not come
to an end with vour departure, I am.
"Yours sincerely,
"l(. Y. M."
od letter is from Di
one copy of each of these articles.
will certainly have some sort of
effect. This is evident from the in
.Apr. '"table reyto with which the llrit
ish and French pi ess have attacked
these two Sun article. They have in
sulted me in the most lm redihle way.
llivvever, I a;rei with .Vou that mili
tary success will be a decisive factor
for opinion In America. I think, how
ever, that especially In the we:.t where
1 expect there will be a big attempt
f'i break through, we hav htrlousand
difficult times to look forward to, but
1 1 onfidently believe thai we shall
S'li'C
b, si
.sfiillv
wishes.
0 1 1
I'll'.
Ilnm. With
11
The se. '
. .'.If'Ser
as folio
to Captain von Papeii
w s :
ITrxIdciil Scored.
'New York, If', I let-Ill bi
"Dear Captain:
"I lest w ishes again oil lb.
f your departure. I had
'it
The
oil .
bill to create a
reserve, officers
Ject to the republican primaiies. if
of 01110 irom 13""
formerly .1 member of
national committee.
was governor
lifOfi ani also
the republican
be above the grade of lieutenant com-
Enlistment would be open
to any eligible American and for a
term of four years and in time of war
officers and men would receive the
same pay as in the regular army.
lean sailors and marines.
Plans for 11 mass meeting lit re were
cancelled today on the orders of
Mayor Tom Lea. It being decided
that no meeting would bo held until
trains sent south to hrimr Americans
order of the governor of .Mush. The
men were massacred, and the wo
men cid children drowned in the
Fipbrates river. This news Was I el -iKraphe.l
to Viscount Hryce by all
Armenian refuge worker.
v est 1 rtla v to t l,i
t ut events with
roughly discuss
some ( ici l 1 i;t Us,
come
From
"HUKNHAItDl.
rase r member me kindly to
on Ft-in.storff."
Dr. AllartV View,
fourth is a letter from Dr. Al
It follows In part:
"Sun Francisco, (No date).
Dear llerr von I'upcn:
"Well then how T w ihh I wi re in
j.N.'W Vork and could l:ci:us th" sit
isioii nation vou and be (?) Many Clanks
ti.ionilor the ttlcgrani. nut my hope Is
re-: !;:, all. tor tins nnie I suppose mat
As iters will move m. re quickly than in
was natural, although there was a
general agif ui"iit on main poinds,
there was a. slight difference of ..pin
ion, indeed it could not hive been
ola, rwlc, espei-lallv as w (. are rath
er cut off from the other side. The
Ausntaii note, is of course, a matter
lor geiieial quiet enjoyment and the
wholo business cuii scarcely be taken
Hie Duiuba case. 1 wonder whether
our government will respond in suit
able manner. The 'patron' also tel
egraphed thiil 1 was to continue my
join ne.v. So we shall not see each
ollur for tin- present. In
my opinion we 11" longer be need to
take ublie opinion into considera
tion in spite, of IU being artificially.
