1 2 w Jl II 11 !1 f 1
b '(JLiL'jL'JLLvil
:. A -
VOL. 52 tfd. 13
BRIDGEPORT, CONN.? SATURDAY, JAN. 15, 1916
PRICE TWO CEira
! , GENERAL MWUFACTJIW BUSINESS
i rpjumm a KvTW .raTr a kvts us:, sub bl
Mmiij 11 ii iiimiMOJ ' : i
JJjii Mil
FAME
CASE
,y
Vigorous Note, Delivered
- Through American -Embassy,
Breaks Off Inter
k tional Negotiations' on U
- Boat Warfare. f
r
Berlin Rejects Proposal For
Neutral Board To Investi-
1 Gate Case Three Inci
dents ; Cited By British
1 -Are Disregarded.-
' : -.V Berlinj -jail. 15 In its re-
n ' . ply- to the -British- government
; iri; the -Baralong-case, the text
j of which was made'public here
.today, 'Germany tikes - the
ground that. Great , Britain ho
. .',',? . longer- desires -tcv observe the
f : reqirements -fiateriiational
slaw in regard to German "sub-'
'.: - marines and breaks off negd-'
v ti,ations on this subject. '
s j . In addition to announcing its
decision to take measures of
- '; reprisal, jis made known yes-
terday. 'the German " govern-
) . , ' , , ment rejects X3reat Bfi tains
.' proposal for Examination by a
' neutral -board of the Baralong
j . .. . ... . incident' and also of the Ihree
I . cases in which, it'is, charged,
it -. " Germahy violated international
i . law in submarine operations.
s lie. nota was delivered tq . tireat
. . ? ". Brjtaih by, tlie American embassy. Its
I ,: : -tex fuow.-v ; ; . :
, .).,. 'The Brltlsfi-g-overnmeiit has an
J . i swered the. German memorandum in
ir ' the : Baralong: ,case by expressing
doubt3,-on the one hand,, of' the cor
'j rectness of the facts, communicated
J , ... by the German government and by
t . ' , ,' making an accusation, . n--the other
i . hand,- against Germain military and
f naval forces of having; : deliberately
i x committed .countless crimes agrainst
if. - S international law and humanity which
i had been unpunished and compared
i ( with which thexalleged offense of , the
captain and ..crew of the Baralong
s , fsvdes into insignificance. The British
, government has contented itself with
mentioning without any evidence three
,. incidents in naval warfare in 'which
Germans are alleged to have commit
, ted atrocities in violation of interna
, lion law. .
. ."The German government protests
- v " : most sharply against the unprecede'nt-
ed and. unprovoked accusations of the
Britishgovernment in regard tQ the
German army and navy, and the irrv
iputation that the "German authorities
have not dealt with any such crimes
. as have come to their attention. "
"The German army and navy in this
, war observe the principles of interna-
1 tional law and humanity and the high-
. er ftuthorfties insist that in the event
. offenses are committed ihey shall be
,investtgated most closely and punish
, ,d sternly, -t . "
'' "The three cases mentioned by the
: ' , British : government were- investigated
. thoroughly, at the time by competent
German authorities. J ' a
"First,, in the case of the sinking
of the Arabic by a" Germao-submarine, ,
. the investigation showed that the sub
... marine commander was forced by cir
cumstances to . draw the conclusion
that the steamer was attempting "to
' . , ram his craft. 'He., therefore, believ.
himself to be acting in Justifiable
self-defense and he attacked the
ship. " : " -
"The second case1 ' mentioned the
r.ttacksof a German destroyer upon a
'- British , submarine occurred in . this
; manner: a fight developed in those
. waters hetween two wai-ships.tn which
the submarine defended itself by gun
- flrei The ' ' British government can
have little ground for advancing the
charge that Danish neutrality was vio
lated by the German atttack. in view
" ofthe fact that British naval forces
' in a series of cases attacked German
ships in-nutral waters.
"Kinallly.-in the case of the restruc
Continuedon Page 2.) ,' '
' THS WEATHER
Generally fair aiwix6ligfitly warmer
tonijrht and Sunday,, moderate cwlnds
. toecomjns sonth.
HDEflTAKEO RE'NOLDS
LIED BY TRAIRiHS-
S FUNERALS
BRDD
01V
SCORE RE
PAT
YARD;
CELL
All AST
ARTY
east bound' station to ther west Jhound'
station. The second i gate stuck so
that he could not readily move! it.
uiKjnsffl 01 rnwiey, wumot ney-isWTiaIr with the fence 'Mp. Revnolda
While "a large crowd of. persons
waiting for trains to New York, looked
on, John B. Reynolds of the under-
nolds, was struck and ground to death
beneath the wheels of "The Flyer,"" at
the" railroad station this afternoon.
Caught by the fender' of the engine,
Mr, . Reynolds . was rolled a under the
wheels of -the train and for 80 feet,
his body i was pushed along-" knd
mangled. Then it wasl tossed aside,
falling on the west bound platform.
.When attaches of .the railroad feta
tion picked np, the body of 'HJe roan,'
Well-known,; to them' alii it was found
that hit skull was fractured, 'Sis breast
was. shattered open and rhis legs' were
. :- Til . . i if
iriu.ri r irTu. : tnurg w a3 mnimjap ' li 11
recognizable. ' J - ' "'-'i
The body was carried to (the. bagr
gage room .of the station "and. Medical
Examiner S.1 M. Gar lick -Was called.
It was removed to the morgue of Henry-E
Bishop.' '. - 1
; According to the stories of those
who saw 'the accident and Policeman
iP. J. Corrigan," who was 'on duty at
(the station, Mr. . Reynolds was at 7
tempting to cross the- tracks from the
was unaware of the fact that : the fast
"Flyer," bound -for , New , Xork and
40 minutes late was thundering to
ward him, i He scarcely had time to
look when the engine hit him. He was
caught under the wheels, mangled and
then tossed over the - west . fence.
Mr, Reynolds was at the station to
i, i -L- . l
r- ;iixia,irw .. tt. . .uouys inai was
shipped 'fromi New-Jerae-y."' -He".' had
been waiting for the; body at the east
side of the station. "Mr. Bishop, who
took charge ef Mr; -Reynolds' body,
also topi charge - of the body for
which, the other undertaker had been
Waiting. ,
: John B. Reynolds was of the firm
of Hawley,: Wilmot &i Reynolds. He
was about 60. years old. He had lived
in Bridgeport virtually 7 all his life
When a young man' he studied" the
business of embalming and after being
employed for a time by other under
takers he joined the firm of Hawley
& Wilmot. . , -.'",, -y 3
;i - , (Continued on Page 2.)
way. -i . .
Newspapermen were barred from
the yards and it was with much diffi
culty that the report of the explosion
could be confirmed. l, , ,
It was reported that the engineers
in the navy yard were testing one of
the new Edison .bateries installed In
the craft at the, tirhe of the explos-
Hion. These batteries . were - intended
to- obviate, the danger of the crews of
the submarine from, "(gas fumes. -
Recently submarines of the "E"
class were reported "to have , made suc
cessful trips , with the hatt&ries la.
NIXON'S SLAYER
BOUND OVER TO
SUPERIOR COURT
Waives Examination in City
Court When Charged
' "With Murder. ;
. Waiving - examination swhen ar
raignedi before Judge Frank TU., Wilder
in city court today on a "charge of
murder, , John, HenryNcoleman,' the
assailant of James Nixon, ' colored.
Was bound over tp the February term
of" the criminal ' superior court with
out bofcds. ' . -
In his finding Coroner John J.jPhe-
lan Iiolds Coleman criminally respon
sible for the death of Nixon, who died
from the effects of a beating admin
istered by Coeman. The prisoner has
procured Attorney Israel J. Cohn to
defend him In theNsuperior court.
' Death canrfe to Nixon as the result
of a , fight with horseshoes in the
blacksmith shop of Christopher Ripk
ard on Howard avenue a week ago to
day. '.'..;,. '' .. '.
AEROPLANES III
SHARP BATTLE
OVER SALONIKI
y ; 1 1 . -' , -
, , Paris, Jan. 15- A squadron of en
emy, aeroplanes on Wednesday, - ac
cording--to a Havaa Agency despatch,
flew oyer the camp" of the allies at Sa
Ioniki. Bombs ' were- dropped on the
French positions but did rto damage,
according to the despatch whch adds
that the French aeroplanes arose and
drove the raiders off. ' 1
A despatch to - the Ha vaa Agency
front' Athens, states that ' the Greek1
government has decided to protest
against the landing of troops. at Corfu,
alleging that the disembarkment took
place before the arrival of the Greek
answer to the, notification of the en
tente allies t occupy Corfu. '
PASSENGERS GET
HEAVY JOLT AS
TROLLEYS CRASH
Rear Vestibule of New Car
Torn Qff in Collision in
-Main Street. ',
Two, persons were injuredanc sev
eral suffered severe shocks at 5:30
o'clock last night i when a Beardsley
park trolley car bound, south on Main
street ; crashed into the . rear of one
of the new, pay-as-you-enter ' type of
vehicles travelling- east on Congress
street. V'-'- "-
. The rear : end of ; the car on ' Con
gress street' almost was sheared from
the rest of the trolley as the Beards
ley park car, failing to stop to allow
the other's passage, smashed into it.
Amid the rioise. of falling . glass,
passengers were jumped to the floor,
against the sides of the cars or -on
their neighbors. - 1 A woman -whose
name wasn't - obtained received a lac
eration on her head. Clifford : T.
Crudgington of 1179 'Noble avenue
suffered a severe strain. . .. JHe was in
the' Beardsley park car and the other
victim was , in the newer vehicle.
Nobody tried to Jump, as- the cars
were quickly stopped. -- The pay-as-
you-enter car was taken to the barns
and another vas substituted. '
Turks' Raid Persia
: Berlin, Jan. 16 Turkish cavalry
forces are making effective raids in
Persian territory and defeated Russian-cavalry
forces opposing them at
two points, according to reports from
Constantinople given out today by the
Overseas Ivttva Agency. '
KAISER CHEERED
BY CROWDS IN
BERL1NJTREETS
Berlin, Jan. 15. Emperor William
made several public appearances in
Berlin yesterday, according to' ' the
Overseas " News . Agency, which also
states that he took luncheon at the
residence of.Dr. Von Bethmann-Holl-weg,
the German chancellor, and that
he was Joyously eheered by the crowds
as he drove to the chancellor's resi
dence. . .. . v
ew York, Jan. 15.; The -United States submarine
was today blown up and partly sunk in the New York
Navy; Yard.' The bodies of 12 men killed in the internal
explosion were recovered and a report to Brooklyn police
Headquarters said several others vfere filled
was said to have opened up several
plates of fhe craft, could not be learn
ed some time after the , accident oc
curred. Several rescue parties which
undertook to -enter the submarine
were. driyien back by heavy ( gas
fumes.
Several officers: who were lowered
into the draft were ' pulled "out after
becoming unconscious. Tire one body
recovered was found near . a hatch-
IISRl
Later reports that came from the
navy yard .were to the effect- tihat
12 men had 'been taken out from the
hold seriously j injured, and f 20 with
slighter injuries. ,
4rtomobiles and Bicycles To Be Made-at the Vast
Plants Here, When Rush of Manufacture of
War . Munitions Subsides -Cdmpahy; : With
60,000,000 Capital, Pays $8,000 Franchise Tax
To State General Machinery Manufacture
Also To Be One of Purposes of Huge Enter
prise Merger Firm is Largest Ever Formed
, in This State.
v
ETTfPPED WITH. NEW BATTERIES
Washington, Jan. i15 The subma
rine E-2 was at theNew York navy
yard, . having installed the- new bat
teries which Thomas A. Ediso'n'has
developed for the United States navy.
She, was the first submarine being
equipped - with theb attery ' ' .
The E-2 was built by th Electric
Boat "Co.; about four -years ago. Sev
eral of the type are in use. Ordinarilj
the E boats carry a crew of between
15 and . 20 men. , 7 , ' ' J
i It was at first reported) that "the
B-6 had been sunk- toot inq-Wiry
showed that there is: no submarine
of that designation. The, one, two
and three, are the only crafts of the
B type in use. - , ' c ' .-''--
M PllTnni ir iFH AT I aPIP ATlR ill ! ter ftQm. .Marpellus Hartley Dodge, president" of .-Je Union
:.siii0'o;fagewg'.gcauest
TEJIAS DEOEF
PEC2IL
IS
El Paso, Jan.; 15 The efforts; of
Carranza military commanders to. "de
stroy the handits who massacred
eighteen American in' Chihuahua state
last Monday divided attention on this
side of the international boundary to
daywith efforts to. bring out of the
Mexican danger zone foreigners who
failed to board the, relief train which
.brought 52 refugees to this-city last
night. - - .y -. '-
, According to mining company offi
cials and some , of the men who came
from .Chihuahua City last night, about
1;000 Americans ae still in northern
Mexico. . Apprehension over the safe
ty jef these was lessened somewhat' by
reports that ' the .. Carranza military
: v " - '
I chiefs are taking measures to protect
foreigners in the territory under; con
trol of the def acto government. - . ;
"Await Carranza'? Reply.- -.
Washington, Jan. 14 General Car
ranta's formal reply to representation
from the United States demanding
that' he run down and punish the mur
derers of Americans citizens of? Ysahel,
Mexico, still was awaited today,' al
though indirect assurances had come
from him that this would be donf : :',
Through-, Eliseo Arredondo, the' Mex
can ambassador, Carranza announced
that he had sent troops to capture the
outlaws and promised ""condign pun
ishment om -every participant.' .' i '
; : riEHpTJSK JAIXiED. ,
In city court today a sentence of 10
days' in Jail was given George Pie
house, aged' 29, a resident of Water
street, charged with the theft of a
coat belonging to, Joseph Melila of
450 Lafayette street. Railroad Po
liceman J. FV Gogli fcaid he saw the
theft committed " in the South End
railroad yards. , i
YELL017 ULL TO
BE GREAT HARBOR
OF FUTURE tJITY
Former Mayor Clark BuUd-
ing Docks With Eye To
City's Growth
j " ' ' - - -
'The harbor, formed by Yellow Mill
pond, will be one of the-best and most
used1 along1 Long Island Sound, with
in' a few years if the "prediction of
Prank Ey Clark, former "mayor' of
Bridgeport is -borne out. ' ". v
"Bridgeport is going' to be a great
city and that place is going to make
a great, harbor," said Mr. Clark: to
day. Black Rock and the ' harbor
at the mouth of the Pequonnock river
don't - compare with it for potential
advantages, according 'to Mr.) Clark.
""There is no series of drawbridges
there and a load my be brought in
from the stakeboat cheaply," Mr.
Clark said. "I'm a great believer in
the future of Bridgeport and in the
prospects for Yellow Mill." , ' -
He thinks so much of it -that he
has 266 feet of docking there and is i
building 106 more. Harry Walker j
is constructing 9 0.0 reet. The Union
Metallic Cartridge Co., the American
& British Co. and other factories have
docks there. ,
Eton Neck sand will be one of the
principal cargoes to come in Yellow
Mill. Mr. Clark, who is in the con-;
crete 'block business, has -an exclusive
contract with Goodwin & Gallagher,
the largest dealers in gravel in the
country, for this peculiar material
and he will use it in his business. It
imparts a handsome finish to concrete
work. . - v '
THAWS FROZEN
LEGS IN BUCKET
OF ICED WATER
Lower Extremities Stiff
from Coldf Farmhand Gets
' - Relief, From Pain.-V
' - - ':'
UNWILLING FIRST,
THANKFUL AT END
, Merging the Reminerton Anns' & Ammunition com
rpany and the Union Metallic Cartridge company into the s
uiggest corporation ever formed unqer tne general laws
of the state, articles ' of organization of the Remington
Arms-Union Metallic Cartridge company were filed todar
at the office of the secretary-of state in Hartford.
The new concern, capitalized at $60,000,000, is an-'
thorized, in addition to the manufacture of military muni
tions of, all kinds,, to engage in the manufacture of auto-
mobiles arid bicycles. - 4 . I
A registration fee df $8,000 was paid the state whe a 1
the articles were filed today by Shearman Sterling, at-!
torneys of New York; The incprpdratots of the merp;rr'
are James L. Banks, Jr., Reginald Roome and Chauncev
Garver, all of New York. . - . '
" According to the 'organization papers, the new company U
authorized to conduct the' business of the Remington Arm- r
Ammunition company and the Union Metallic Cartridge -
pany. Accompanying the certificate of organization was a 1 -
Miartriage Cagranting the right to tba it? w jcozibern tou & 3
the .merger name of the corporation. - 7
, - With the filing of thej papers today came the first intirnalir 1
of the uses to which the mammoth factories here may be put
when the war-timf rush for' munitions subsides! The papers
specifically state that the manufacture of automobiles and bi-' ;
cycles, and'machinery for their manufacture, 4s among the pur- I
posesof the new company. I
The company also Is to engage in the manufacture of, "fire- j
arms, ordnance, projectiles, military weapons of all kinds and
machinery for their manufacture."
..The capital stock of the, company. is divided into 1,200,00(3'
shares of par. value of $50.. Of this, $20,000,000 is preferred
stock with "cumulative dividends. at 7 per cent; and $40,000,0(?(T
in common stock.;. v. ,N
;V The -preferred stock ,may be retired in whole or iri part, c : .
any date on whicht a di.Vidfend is payable, -op 'payment of 110. !
per cent of the par value with accumulated -dividends., "I
There will be a board of seven directors, though this mini-j
ber may-be increased or diminished at any time.,
EMERGENCY TAX RETURNS
ARE COMIJVG IN" SLOWLT
Emergency tax returns are coming
in ' too slowly for the short time that
there is left in which hey may be
filed without penalty. All returns
must "be -in on or before January 29,
to avoid a penalty of 60 per cent. The
office is open from 9 until 3. daily ex
cept Saturdays when "it closes at '12
i o'clock.
Policemen and Hospital At
, taches Have Hands Full-
' Treating Him.
, . . - ... . -
i . . . . -
Both legs frozen from his toes to
his knees .Amos Taylor, aared 55. col
ored, employed on the farm of Geortre
Grerory in Stratfield strenuouslyiob
jected to. treatment-given by Dr. Jos
eph II. Beaudry at the emergency
hospital this morning. Taylor's froz
en feet were bared placed in a - pail
of cold -fcater, and surrounded with
pieces St ice chopped from a leader
pipe on the police and charities build
ing. " - ,
Taylor began his work on the farm
at 4 o'clock this morninsr and he was
found in a helpless condition oh the
floor of the barn by Harold Crocker
at 8 o'clock. He was taken to the
emergency-JjospitaJ in the farm wagon.--
. .. ,
Dr. Beaudry favored cold water for
thawing. When this treatment was
resorted to, the patient put up series
of yells that echoed through the entire
Ibufllding and three policemen were
called to aid ,ln holding Taylor's feet
in the pall of ice. water. . He was fin
ally subdued and after ten mnutes
treatment, the blood begai to circulate
through the veins in his legs.
Taylor, was then removed from the
pail .and his lower extremities were
swathed in warm bandages. He was
removed to Bridgeport hospital for
further treatment. It Is not believed
that gangrene will set in and his re
covery is virtually - assured.
Somewhat exhausted after bis fight
against the treatment and his vocal
efforts. Taylor remarked, after' it was
all over: "Well, that feels' much- bet
ter. "
Under the organization of the new
Remington Arms-Union Metallic Car
tridge company will own and operate
th two huge plants located on both
sides of Boston avenue, as.weU as, the
Union Metallic ' Cartridge ; company
properties in Barnum avenue. New
factory building erected withln-A, 'year
by , both old concerns are valued at
close to $10,000,000 '
Thee machinery equipment for the
new factories will be worth' twice that
sum,: it was estimated' recently. When
all factories are operating, there will
be more than 30,000 employed.
The Union Metallic Cartridge com-,
pany was organized under the law.
of this state with a capital of $300,000.
The Remington Arms & Ammunition
Company was formed under the law
of : Nsw York with . a capital of sev
eral millions.
Officials at the .state capitol today ,
said that the 'new merger company i?
the biggest ever formed under the
general corporation laws in this state.
BRIDGEPORT HYDRAULIC GO.
BUYS WESPORT WATER FIRL1
' AFTER THEIR PLANS COnFLIC'
" The BridgeporEHydraulic Co. has
purchased - the' .water . rights," electric
plant, leases and business of the'West
port Water Co., arid hereafter will
conduct the business that 'company
has carried on for many years :. in
Westport and the adjoining commun
ity. , The consumation or the trans
fer took place yesterday at a joint
meeting here of the officers . of the
Bridgeport and the Westport . com
panies. . "
Men of affairs have been cognizant
for some time that such a deal was
ontemplatea and recently., the mat
ter was brought to the attention of
the public utilities commission- be
cause it seemed imminent that the
rights of the Bridgeport Hydraulic
Co. in ; developing the reservoir in
what is' known as the Hemlock dis
trict, might conflict with those Of the
Westport Co. in the .Aspetuek river
section. That the Bridgeport con
cern must pay damages or compensation-
seemed likely, hence the sale.
An amicable agreement has been
made between v the companies, by
which the Bridgeport company takes
over the rights and property of the
Westport company. The latter com
pany began business in 187 8 although
under a different name. The - last
charter granted the concern, gives it
the right to supply electricity for light
and heating in Westport and vicinity
and. 'this , business : wiil still - be car
ried", on, : v '-
The officers of -the Westport Co.
were: President, - E. G. Buckland;
vice president, Howard Elliott; secre
tary, Arthur E. Clark; assistant sec
retary, C. H. 'Hemstead; treasurer. A:
S. May; assistant . treasurer, T F.
Paradise; auditor,' I. A. May. Mr.
Buckland, Harris Whittimore, Eii
Whitney and Benjamin I; Spock were
the directors. . .
After the deal yesterday the fol
lowing officers were chosen and the
business , of the Westport Water Co.
will be carried on as an independent
public service corporation: President,
DeVer H. Warner; vice president,"
Charles H. Sanford; treasurer, Sam
uel P. Senior; assistant treasurer,
Walter S.. Wilmot; secretary, Albert
E. Lavery. - These officers will also
be the directors of -the company.
Now that the deal has been com
pleted engineers of ' the Bridgeport
Hydraulic Co.: are -at work on plana
to- tunnel from Valley.- Forge on the
Saugatuck river. Shrough Flirt hill
to the compahys dam on the Aspe
iuck and divert water enough so that
an additional supply of 40.000,000 gal
lons per day may be added to th
available for the service - of Bridge
port residents. That such additional
water supply will be needed is evi
denced by the rapid increase in pop
ulation here. ' -
: The executive committee of the Na
tional Railway Men's union of Great
Britain, adopted a resolution declaring
that the organization will resist con
scription to the utmost.
Four Germans, members of the Ger
man navy, who are said to have es
caped from German ships interned in
United States waters', were arrested at
Wilmington, Del., by Federal agents.
