"ft
MARKETS
NEW YORK CITY
Average copper price
week ending Jan. 12
23.49.
WEATHER
J-
A Generally
mperature urv
MEWBtR ASSOCIATED PRESS
VOL. 18, NO. 193.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, SATURDAY MORNING, JANUARY 15, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
m
AMERICANS IK
EXODUS OUT
OF NORTH
MEXICO
Fifty-two Americans, Includ
' ing Women and Children,
Arrive in EI Paso. 150
More Expected.
NO DEMONSTRATIONS
HAD IN COMMUNITY.
General Huerta Buried. Body
Will Be Taken to Mexico
City When Peace Is Restor
ed. Americans Interred.
EL PASO, Jan. 14. Fifty-two Amer
icans, including a number of women
and children arrived from Chihuahua
City, the region where alleged .Villa
bandits slaughtered eighteen foreign
ers. More than 150 Americans remain
in what is considered the danger zone.
Leter it was hoped they would reach
American territory on board a special
irain Monday.
A train sent from El Paso last night
is reported to have reached Parral to
night. The refugees who arrived gala
the special passed Chihuahua this
morning., Three of the victims of the
massacre, Thomas Evans, M. B. Rom
ero and J. H. Woon were interred with
o"t demonstration on the part of Am
ericans, whose threats led to the es
tablishment of a provost patrol of the
city last night.
The Mexicans who were required to
stay inside last night on account 0f the
demonstrations, reappeared. Many
were seen at the bier of Huerta who
died last night. Huerta's body, garbed
in the phowy uniform of a Mexican
general, was placed' temporarily in a
vault. Members of the family and for
n-.er officers of the Mexican army fol
lowed the casket to the cemetery
where there were brief gervices. It is
planned to remove the body to Mexico
City when peace is restored, in compli
ant with the general's dying request.
Confirmation of the reports of the
execution of General Rodriguez by Col
onel Maximo Marquez, were received,
together with the statement that the
body will be brought to Juarez for ver
ification by the Americans and to the
Carranza government. t ; .
Reports are current that incendiary
posters are being circulated in Juarez
declaring several Mexicans were killed
' in El Paso as a result of the brawls
last night, but the Mexican consular
offHials declared they could find none.
It is stated no request for permission
to send Huerta's body to Mexico City
has been made to Carranza through
his agents here or in Juarez.
Plans for a mass meeting of Ameri
cans to discuss the situation were can
celled on orders of Mayor Lee. It was
decided no meeting; should be held un
til the trains sent to bring the Ameri
cans out of Mexico tad arrived safely.
Mail advices from Torreon brought the
de'ailM of the occupation of Gomez Pal
acio by the commands of Calexito Con
treras, Canute Reyes and" Pedro More
no. Unconfirmed reports are that Gener
al Argumendo is near Bermijillo and
that the La sun a district is in the hand
of anti-Carranza forces. The official
report from General Trevino said the
bands of Villa bandits would be exter
minated wherever found. While the
Carranaza consul stated that no armed
force would be permitted to enter Mex
ioo to aid in the extermination of the
bandits, it was rumored here that such
a movement was being' organized.
The body of Huerta was in state in
the house on a side street where he
ive kept a prisoner by the United
States. The casket was draped in a
Mexican flag, and on it was a jeweled
sword and a gold laced cbapeau worn
on state occasions, the gem set in
stars nd orders he once wore. Can
dles burned at the head of the casket
and behind were two of his military
staff, acting as a guard of honor. May
Sor Lee, who was Huerta,, attorney,
was one of the few Americans who
passed before the casket for a farewell
look.
TO MOVE TROOPS. (
DOUGLAS. Jan. 14. Carranza au
thorities requested permission of the
United States to move 600 cavalry
through American territory frtfaj
Cananea to Juarez, according to Agua
Prieta officials. Thoy will be used in
MISSION WORKER !
LOST ON PERSIA
'
!.
Rev. Homer R. Salisbury. ;
' Among the American reported to
have lost their lives in the sinking- of
the steamer Persia in the mediter
ranean was Homer L. Salisbury, the
head uf the Seventh Day Adventist
m'sf ions service in Pers:a.
COY BURIED
Local Elks will Bury Body of
Jack P. Coy Sunday After
noon. Metcalf Thought to
be Safe in Chihuahua City.
Though it was stated yesterday that
Jack P. Coy would be buried in El
Paso by that city's lodge of Elks, ar
rangements were completed yesterday
for the interments of the deceased hi
Bisbee, Sunday afternoon. The body
of Coy arrived id the belated west
bound Golden State Limited, at an
early hour this morning, accompanied
by W. A. Schwartz and James L.
Gannon, representing the Bisbee
lodge.
The funeral will be held from the
Home at 3:30 o'clock and will be held
under the complete auspices of the
Elks. Interment will be made in the
lodge's plot in Evergreen cemetery.
Coy was very well known in Bis
bee, His connection with Elkdotn
dated from his residence in the Dis
trict and whea the' local Elks heard
of his murder they j immediately took
steps to have the body brought here
for burial.
Metcalf Unharmed.
Though no verified report has been
received in regard to the rumor, the
local friends and acquaintances of
Jack Metcalf, who left Bisbee last
week for Santa Barbara, believe that
he is well and safe.
Ia the ' first instance Metcalf was
not with the Cusi Mining company.
He was employed by the American
Smelting and Refining company, and
bouiid for Santa Barbara. According
to Metcalf, the train on which he left
Juarez was a special and was due out
of the Mexican border town Monday
morning. This would not permit of
its being in the same neighborhood
as Santa Ysabel.
Further. Santa Barbara Is located
on a branch line about sixty kilo
meters from Jimenez, in the southern
part of the state of Chihuahua. Santa
Ysabel is farther north.
NO MILK TO BE SHIPPED.
WASHINGTON, Jan. 14. France
declined for military reasons to per
mit shipments of condensed milk by
a charitable organization in the Unit
ed States to Germany and Austria for
the babies. Ambassadors Page, of
London, and Sharpe, in France, were
recently authorized to inquire if the
governments of the allies would per
mit such shipment if the American
Red Cross agrees to make the distri
bution and make sure the milk was
used for the right purpose. . '
The State ' Department received
Sharp's report stating: "The French
government on Jaauary 13 stated that
on account of military regulations It
is unwilling to authorize the ship
ment of milk either to Germany or
Austria even if the American Red
Cross supervises the distribution.
the campaign against the Villa bandits
in western Chihuahua.
It Is not stated when the movement
will begin or at what point they will
enter the United States. Officers of
the Cananea Consolidated denied re
ports, emanating from El Paso, that
three Americans were killed ia the
Cananea district. They said the dis
trict was quiet and orderly.
DISTRICT Oil
SUNDAY
IH 10
HAVE AMPLE
CHHGE
Apprehension and Punish
ment of Murderers of Amer
icans will be Left to De Fac
to Government
ADMINISTRATION MEN
MAINTAIN POSITION.
Republicans Urging Interven
tion Are Accused of Insin
cerity; Carrancistas Show
Disposition to Aid.
WASHINGTON. Jan. 14. The Car
ranza de facto government will be giv
en full opportunity, without interven
tion of the United States, to capture
the murderers of Americans at Santa
Ysatel and demonstrate their ability
to, restore order and protect foreign
rights in Mexico. This was the 0ut-
t standing fact after the meeting of thej
..u V Willi IV 111 I, VV . lUIT A
dent and Chairman Stone of the Sen-j
ate foreign relations committee, nd
another day of stirring debate in the i
Senate. Administration leaders In the j
Senate firmly outlined the position ofi
the government to face denunciation I
from the Republicans' side. Senator;
Works, Republican, proposed a reso-.'
lution directing intervention. No di-1
rect communication from Carranza
reached the State Department.'
Eliseo Arredondo, Mexican ambas
sador designate, announced the dis
patch of troops to capture the out
laws and Carranza s purpose to visit,
-condign punishment on every partici-
pant in the massacre." jThis message
is regarded as indicating the character
of the reply to Secretary Lansing's'
representations, which are expected by
tomorrow. 'The Mexican embassy is
without other advices regarding the
bandit hunt. General Obregon said to;
be at Queretaro. where he had been j
summoned for a conference. He is!
likely to remain there. The work of 1
bunting the Villa forces in Chihuahua J
will be left to Generals Gavira and j
Trevino.
Measures to facilitate the removal
of Americans from the district where :
their lives micht be in danger were
discussed with Arredondo who later
telegraphed Carranza that every assis
tance would be given Americans and
escorts provided to accompany them I
into cities where strong garrisons are j lne Turkish positions ero the Gallipoli
maintained. Arredondo went further peninsula. Nothing developed of the
than Lansing suggested, recommend- Promised attack on Saloniki, but ad
ins forcible removal cf foreigners to!vk'es from there sa' tne BritisD und
points of safety in case they objected. J" continue to land large nam
The Department is advised that a j bers of trooPs-
large number of Americans are leav-j
ing northern Mexico. j
It is estimated that, not including j
the Mormons at Casas Grpndes. there j PHILADELPHIA. Jan. 14. Four
are still at Parral, Durango, Madera . German sailors, two from the German
and other points more than 300. It is j steamer Rhein, tied up at Baltimore
feared a majority of these will remain ; since the war began, and two fro:n
despite warnings. I-ansins gtated the! the German steamer Kiel, at Sout
United States would protect the Amer-! port. North Carolina, were detai led at
leans remaining "to the best of its : the immigration station at Gloucester
ability," but in such cases the govern-! for examination to determine whether
ment would not feel obliged to use ! thpy r 'n United States in
force where the "people are indiscreet" (Violation of the immigration laws.
Lansing compared the situation in! The four men were taken in custody
Mexico to that in Eurone a the becin- i ,n Wilmington last night. The incli
ning of the war when Americans were !
ordered out bv the State Denartment. !
...i.i.ij ,!.'ers at New Port News.
This
elicited positive, declarations
from Stone and Lewis that there;
would be no countenancing of de-j
mands from Republicans for Interven-1
tion. Both charged the Republicans
with Insincerity.
NO PROTEST.
WASHINGTON. Jan. 14. The re
moval of Albert Clark, a United
States army private, from the Ameri-!Tne
can steamer Santa Marta at Jamaica.
s noi expeciea 10 resuu 111 a protest :
from the United States. Officials said '
the removal occurred, in British waters
Clark was released later. The Brit
ish apparently
rights.
acted within their
' '
LONDON, Jan. 14. A Malta corres
MANAGERS OFFER SETTLEMENT, pondent to Reuter's reports that fifty
j of the crew of ihe British steamer
CLIFTON, Jan. 14. Managers of the 1 pan McFarlane, torpedoed in the Med
Arizona, Shannon and Detroit copper !
coinpanles whose striking employes ,
recently decided to eliminate the West
ern Federation of Miners as a factor
offered a scale of wages based on the
present price of copper running from
eighteen to twenty-four cents. The
offer was mado in a letter given he
Citizens' Mediation Committee at Clif
ton. The letter said tbe managers are
willing to meet a committee of the
men to discuss their grievances if the
men returned to work.
, LATEST BRITISH
Battleship Ki.is Ward VII. t " j
Another panir to the Britiuh public was caused by the announcement of the loss of the battleship Kinfc'
Edward VII, which was llown up by a mine. The entire crew wts saved. Th displacement of the King" Ed
.A'ard VII was lfi.:!.")0 tons. She carried four 12-inch Runs, four 'J.2-inch, tea ti-inth, twelve 12-pounders and
'iwelve 3-poutideis. ; ' . ..'
)M If II I I 111 III I ll
UllltlitUiiU ID
ENCOMPASSED
BY TEUTONS
Austrians Continue their Way
Southward After Taking
the Capital, Cettinje. Aus
trian Cruiser is Sunk.
LOXDON. Jan. H.-The flag of
Austro-H angary fies over Cattinje and
tle victor." continue their march south
towards the fortinod pcrt of Antivari.
driviiie bv force of number th roI-
diers of King Nicnoias. Montenegro
Is encompassed on all sides, except
in the south by the invaders.
If the Montenegrins are driven
across the border i.uo Albania they(
will face foes in the Albanian tribes-'
men. The newly acquired positions j
of the Austrians, dominating the
Adriatic have not sufficed to keep her I
warships unharmed. An Austrian
cruiser of the Novara type wa sent j
to the bottom of the Adriatic by a 1
French submarine, operating with the
Italian fleet. There is little fighting
on any or the fronts except by big
guns and sapping.
The Entente fleet again bombarded
INTERNED SAILORS ARRESTED.
Kratlon officials denied the sailors es
caPed fr0,n tne ntped German raid-j
TURK REPORT DIFFERENT.
BERLIN, Jan. 14. The official re
port from Constantinople on the Brit
ish evacuation of Seddul-Bahr con
tradicts the British report. The.
Turks say they discovered the enemy's
retreat, launched an attack aud
I bombarded the landing stages. It de
clares, the British losses were heavy.
report ,g compatible Witn tne
, British account only on the supposi-
Uon tnat Monro.g report of tne )osH
f -,,,, oniv
,0S8 of the artua, embarkation, not '
i in the retreat to the beaches.
FIFTY THOUGHT LOST
jterranean December 30, are still mlss-
jn? ana- nave been given up as lost.
The survivors, who arrived here, stat
ed the ship was torpedoed
warning In a rough sea.
without
NATIONAL COLD WAVE.
WASHINGTON. Jan. 14. Practical-
ly the entire United States Is in th
grip of the winter's most severt cold
wave. With the exception of Florida,
every ttate ia experiencing unscas'm-
ably low temperature.
BATTLESHIP TO BE SUNK
1 -. ,.:' :'. : ' ;. ." - . '
&
I
. , JL
COYOTES WILL GO.
- SAN FRANCISCO, Jan. 14.
Rabies infected coyotes la the
mountain district .of Northern
California, are traveling in
packs. They are attacking towns
driving the residents to the
trees and moving trains; chewed
iron gates; attacked sheep
herders, farmers, hunters, and
school children, and have given
scientists the first chance to'
study the actio nof crazed co
yotes, according to the reportof
Dr. George Ebright, president
of the state board of health, re
ceived. In many small mountain towns
in Modoc and Lassen counties,
Ebright says, the entire commu
nity has been drivento shelter
when packs of coyotes ran out
from the wilderness to attack
any living thing that crossed
their path. The schools in many
of the remote sections or the
counties bordering on Nevada
and Oregon have been closed.
, ,
,
ATTFM NT M Jl n PVoj"werc6-' ' :
I I h 111 Ml LI II II Hli The auto nartv was e-orted dowa -
niii in 1 1 111 n 11 1
u . mm
11 1 I ImIII 1 Hill w b
TO SMUGGLE
i
Four Men and One Woman In
dicted in New York on the
Charge Of Conspiring to
Violate Customs Laws.
NEW YORK. Jan. 14. Four men
and a woma.t were .indicted by the
federal jury on the ' charge ' of Con
spiring to violate the customs laws by
shipping contraband rubber to Ger
many. Those indicted are Edward
Webber, the cousin of a Berlin back
er; Paul Schmidt, Webber's partner
in the rubber business: Max Jaeger,
a German maker of automobile accea-
;sories; Mr8. Anns Dekkers. a native
of Holland; and Richmond Wohlberg.
a naturalized citizen who operates a
rubber factory.
Assistant. United States Attorney
Content says Dekkers was to have
been the go-between, her sex and the
fact that she made many ocean trips
was relied on to protect her from
suspicion. '
The rubber was to be carried by
her as personal baggage, it is alleged.
Four and a half tons of rubber were
obtained before an attempt at ship
ment was made, according to Content.
Mrs. Dekkers took passage on the
liner Ryndam, bound for Rotterdam
with foiir trunks and eight packing
cases filled with rubber, marked per
sonal baggage, it is alleged. On In
formation given the customs authori
ties by British agents Mrs. Dekkers'
baggage wai held and she was not
permitted to sail.
FATAL MUNITION EXPLOSION
PHILADELPHIA. Jan. 14. The acid
house of the Du Pont Powder Compa-
, ny at Gibb.stown. N. J., was blown up.
injuring five, two .'probably fatally.
This Is th eeighth explosion in tbe
plant, of this section in the last three
months with a total of thirty-nine
deaths and twenty injured. Company
otficials state there ia no reason to
suspect that the explosion was from
other than natural causes. '
BY GERMAN MINE
MOTOR CARAVAII
: AOW.AI
: EL PASO
s-. re e s-t
rresiaeni vsrnaorrr or tnanv , arrested in connection with the biow-
ber of Commerce Presents I ing up of the Canadian Pacific bridge
Key to Gate City; Guests 81 St- roiI- Naine- Th' bef,,re
V:; I,....,. R,,,,-fJ !tnis fheck was issued, the German
Vuit Juarez; Banqueted at paid i000tOTOn p,,,., ,c.
raSO del Norte. icount. Another check stub show that
about two weeks before the explor ion
EL PASO. Jan. 14. Covered witn;ilt Seatlle MT 30 1913, von Papen
dust after a long ride across "Dry"!senl ym t0 ,ne German consul at Se
Arizona into -Wet" New Mexico andjatlU. Februal.T 19. 1915 h sent
"Wetter" El Paso, the automobile, , ,0)) fc Gernutn ,,, at Xew
. caravan of southern Arizona business
men arrived here at 12:30 aud was;
. t j . t, r, . . rrieaencn A. j. von - rwrunarai. oait-u
met by President R. B. Orndorff of : , , , a
the Chamber of Con.merce at the cit'rn Genr1 "nr- rm'1
limits and welcomed to the city. Be-ito ,he P"' P"'"" P-'W
cause of the danger of. trouble in the
A Meixican quarter Mayor Tom Lea was;
j unable to meet them b
tokhe city .to the Aruo,.ans by Pro-
!leif nrn,lnrr of .he Chamber of
1 7 -
town and to the Chamber of Cola -
linerce where a meeting was held this'
I afternoon to discuss tbe change in the,
t Borderland Highway. No denuite de-j
cision was reached. After this many
Hot -the crowd attended the races ini
'Juarez as the guests of the Jockey
Clnb of. Juarez while others went to.
clubs and to the fort to see the mili-
tary parade, stilt others, including
number of the Bisbee men. railed at ;
the undertaking" parlors aud inspected
the bodies of the remaining Ameri-
;cn8 wno were victims of the mass-
acre at sauta 1 Jaoei. 1 ne Arizona
men ere horrified to see the rondi- j x , ,pwMinn was conveyed by German
tion the bodies were in after f tht! dip1oniatj0 officials that von Papen
Mexican bandits had finished with ! wft wonuwtf4 wifh ,e documents by
them, many being stamped in tre,prltish ents. their argument being
face with hobnailed boots and others . ,f incrpdibIo th,t Ton Papen
badly torn by explosive bullets
mass meeting in which was scheduled
to be held at four o'clock was called
off because of the feeling here.
Tonight the automobile dinner was;
held at the El Paso del Norte at'
:k litUnnii Knalnucd mun m f1 1
f VhL 7,v Tn7 rh-n.h.r f
guests of the city and Chamber or
" . . j
Commerce. A program of talks and
cabaret stunts was arranged for this
and given during the dinner.
Speakers from Arizona at the din-; homes and to friendsjn the east,
ner as Introduced by President R. i
B. Orndorf of the Chamber of Com- ANOTHER SOURCE TALKS
merce and welcomed by Judge Dan M.! ATLANTA. Ga.. Jan. 14 - Dr. .1
Jackson, acting for Mayor Lea. weie: Ihelm Mueller, former German consul
Douglas, Albert Stacy, Harry Shrop-jat Seattle, now consul here, said o
shire; Bisbee. Joseph II. Gray, who ' night he received money from von Pa
arranged the motorcade. E. C. Camp-! pen bur used it to send German from
bell; John J. Bowden. and A. H. Card- Seattle to New York. He denied any
ner for Tombstosie. The party will connection with explosions.
leave at noon Saturday.
HUERTA'S DEATH PLEASES.
LAREDO. Jan. 14. Satisfaction at'tno American emoass. a nmp wnuu
the death of Huerta was expressed by declares that as a result of England
the Carranza official organ. "El Pro-! not fulfilling Germany's demands for
greso." hpre. Editorially the paper 'an explanation of the circumstances
says Huerta's soul contained "not Surrounding the sinking of the German
only an atom of human sentiment." 'submarine by the patrol boat Para long
calling him "the assassin of Madero..rmiany will adopt suitable methods
saying "if there was a hereafter i0f reprisal.
Huerta would receive the punishment!
he merited.'
TO MAKE REPARATION
WASHINGTON. Jan. 14 The Presi
dnt asked Congress to' appropriate j
$41,030 as indemnities to Greece. Aus-
tria-Huncary and Turkey on account
of injuries to their subjects in Soul 11
Omaha riots, Feb. 1. 10!.
LETTERS tR
ncfiiio
mm
PLOTS
Correspondence Found on
Captain von Papen Evi
dence of Deep Laid Plot to
Wreck Munitions Plants.
PAPERS SEIZED AT
FAI3I0UTH, ENGLAND
Check Stubs and Bank Books
Show Disposal of Large
Funds for Different German
Consulates.
j LONDON, Jan. 14. Copies of cor
respondence seized from Captain von
; Papen, the recalled German military
.attache, when he reached Falmouth on
his way to Germany, have bwn turned
ovt to the American embassy for
! transmission to the State Department.
1 They show that von Papen made fre-
iiuent payment,, to persons charged
ith responsibility to blow up muni
tion works and bridges in the United
States.
One entry shows that von Papen
.. ".irt . 11-.. . IT I. A
Sv fiwi' iu t ri mrr nuiu, wuv was
. 0 ,
: j ....
--p-ir..
Von Papen's check stubs, bank book-t
lit sent the key!""u "' -
: .J 1 , .. . . . f... ihn Ultra lif,n
"k- as,,",?,OB' show bout
Hems of many routine expenditures.
'Some rvea,wi pyWM,nt to peron5
lwho have fieured in activities of Ger-
! man agents in America ana to at teasi
one spy who suicided in an Engti.-h
prison. The bank books show that h
received $6400 and pai dout $ W00 in
, January, 191a.
When von Hernstorff was shown di.-
paiche-i telling of correspondence tak-
en from von Papen. he said:
i don't believe It."
He declined to be quoted but made
jt plain that he doubted any inrrirni-
Dating documents taken from von Pa-
Dpn althouch he advanced no theory
ag t0 now ,ne correspondence des rib-
p(! had v connected with him. The.
AlwonM havp carrWd
correspon
would be
dence. knowing the ship
searched in British port.
PART ACCOUNTED FOR
SATTLE, Jan. 14. Consul General
n Tepfal said he investigated the c
. , , , . . ,
counts of the consulate and found nvt
""
hundred dollars were sent by von Pa
pen in May, 1915. It was expended in
vending Impecunious Germans to their
THREATEN REPRISAL
EERIJN. Jan. 14 The Cerman gov
ernment transmitted to England, via
I . . . LI.. U
DENY REPORT
NE WYORK, Jan. 14 The far-eastern
bureau announced the receipt of a
telegram from Peking denying that-
missionaries and other foreigners wer
warned not to enter tn revolution pro-
vinces in China. The Yunnaa eut-
treak is declared to be praetically
quelled.
