mte 'Historic! SoeiUy
i
11
i-i ill ii-J-o
VOL. XXXVI. NO 8
HAYS, ELUS COUNTY. KANSAS. JANUARY 15. 191G
SUBSCRIPTION $1.50 PER YEAR
Many People
who do not feel or understand the personal urge of getting ahead
of accumulating for future investment, do understand and ap
preciate results. When their neighbor by careful and systematic
effort has accumulated a sum sufficient for an investment, they
may wonder how he accomplished it on his limited income but
they do appreciate that he has a start.
You can get a start by using our bank account plan. Come
in and let us show you how easy it is and how it works for your
future betterment.
CITIZENS STATE BANK
HAYS, KANSAS
THE PROSPERITY
of
OUR COMMUNITY
Depends upon the prosperity of the majority of
its individuals and individuals are not really
prosperous unless they use a definite plan to care '
for and protect the odd ends of their income and
accumulate an investment fund. Our bank ac
count plan is definite in detail, broad in scope,
yet suited to the particular needs of each individ
ual user. May we be of service to you?
FARMERS STATE BANK
WALKER, KANSAS
GREETINGS
We thank you for your patronage; and extend to
you the Seasons Greetings.
May 1916 be a Prosperoas and Happy Year for
all.
The Farmers Co-Operative Association
HAYS, KANSAS
The Ford Tractor
IN HAYS AFTER
Saturday, November 27th
Dreiling Lumber Co.
VICTORIA. KANSAS
WHAT INTEREST DO YOU PAY?
WE HAVE
TO LOAN THIS MONTH
On Farm Land
Low Rate of Interest
No Extra Commission
Money Paid Without Delay.
.11. Schaefer Loan Insurance Co.
P. S. We write Insurance in the BEST Companies.
Judge Ruppenthal came up from
Russell and held court for one day.
The Lutheran Ladies' Aid will meet
with Miss Jennie Nicklea, January 20th.
The Essex Club rooms were replaster
ed and otherwise improved this week.
Mrs. Frank Heili, of Gorham.is in
the Hays hospital suffering from a
severe attack of pneumonia.
W. P. Montgomery took hi3 wife to
Arkansas City, Kansas, the first of the
week where she will receive medical
treatment.
Henry Rupp was a pleasant caller,
Monday. He advanced his subscription
to the Free Press during his visit.
Many will be glad to know that Miss
Pearl Sidenius will sing at the Meth
odist church next Sunday morning.
The Hays Music Club gave a literary
program at Mrs. A. F. Cochran on
Tuesday. The life, works and compo
sitions of Handel 1685 and Gluck 1714
were given.
If your shoes look sick, you look sick.
We are experienced Shoe Doctors.
No cure, no pay.
Gassman's Shoe Hospital.
A bunch of Hays Normal school stu
dents, mostly Graham county boys,
played a mixed team a game of basket
ball at the auditorium Saturday night.
Hays won by a score of 27 to 22. Hill
City Republican.
We must have a few extra farm
loans this month. Any amount
from $1,000, tor $10,000. Low
rate. J. M. Schaefer.
Mrs. Ed C. Flood went to Ellis, Tues
day night, to act as installation officer
for the Woman's Relief Corps. Mrs.
Flood is a past department press corre
spondent of the W. R. C.
The Citizens State Bank, Hays
City, Kansas, always has plenty of
money to loan on good farms. They
will make you a special rate during
January.
James Swires, one of the hustling
farmers living south of town, was in
Hays, Saturday. He made the Free
Press office a pleasant call and incident
ally helped to swell our bank account by
paying hi3 subscription $1.50 for 1916.
. The local debate contest for the Mad
den prizes and the W. A. Lewis eold
medal, will be held in the Normal Audi
torium, Monday, January 17th. This
contest is entirely under the direction
and management of the Forensic League
of the Fort Hays Normal School. The
question to be debated is "Resolved
that the United States should abandon
the Monroe Doctrine." Come out and
hear a real live debate under strictly
student management.
All mortgages are written in our
office at Hays, Kansas. We pny
out as soon as papers are signed.
Plenty money on hand for this pur
pose. No delay. J. M. Schaefer.
Tuesday night, this part of the Sun
flower State was treated to an old time
blizzard. A forty mile wind accom
panied by snow and a falling thermom
eter which registered twelve below zero
at daylight, made the citizens of Hays
nug ineir stoves ana radiators; and ac
cording to medical science, it was not
conducive to the longevity of the la
grippe "microbe which had been causing
considerable sickness in Hays for sev
eral weeks past. It also put a crimp
in the ears of the school girls and boys.
Alex E. Biasing says there will be
more accommodation and gooa sarvice
to his many customers and friends at
his store than ever before. Besides his
son Felix and Miss Weltz, he will have
Mr. Alex Koerner of Ellis, Kansas, to
join him. Mr. Bissing's store always
has had the reputation of up-to-date
merchandise, but he says they are go
ing to be stronger than ever, on ready
made and tailor made garments. Mr.
Bissing will have personal charge of the
made-to-measure garments. He has
had many years of experience of taking
measures, and deals with the most re
liable tailoring houses. Ed V. Price &
Co. and Universal Tailoring are house
hold words in many families in Ellis
county.
The Ida Weston Rae show which ap
peared at the Opera House three nights
last week has been pronounced the best
the city has seen. We had the pleasure
of attending one night and were more
than pleased. We hope Ida Weston
Rae can return in which event we wjll
take pleasure in giving them a big
boost. New Years eve they invited the
audience to remain as their guests until
midnight and see the old year go out.
They entertained with excellent vaude
ville and sang a farewell song to 1915
dropping the curtain just at midnight.
The performance was an enjoyable
treat. Hill City Republican. At the
New Opera House, J anuary 20, 21 and
22.
A young man by the name of Frank
Whipple was brought down from Ellis
Sunday evening apparently insane. He
was not dangerous but was very ner
vous and noisy. An injection of mor
phine was administered and he went to
sleep and was quiet until about 12:30
Monday morning, when he was taken
by hi3 brother, John, to Manhattan,
who in the meantime had been tele
graphed to by Sheriff RqbinsQn. A let
ter to the sheriff dated January 11,
states that Frank has been taken to a
Sanatarium at Lawrence, where it is
hoped that proper treatment will cure
him. Frank has been acting as fore
man for a gang of men who are build
ing the Madden elevator now neariiig
returned
Dr. Jordan and wife have
from their trip to Chicago.
Mrs. H. J. Penney is taking medical
treatment at a hospital in Chicago.
Car of apples different varieties.
$1.25 per box. Isaac Zeigler & Son.
The High SchocL
The first semester closed Friday ,J an- j
uary 15. Twenty-nine boys and thirty I
girls passed in all their work, or sixty
eight per cent of the boys and seventy
four per cent of the girl3 received a
passing erred e. Nine boys, or twenty
The Miller Bros, adjusted a fire loss rr 0r.r? oio-'n- o-?rl -t- wvpntopn
for Alex Pfannenstiel at Munjor, Wed
nesday. Mrs. H. A. Cowan entertained the
Domestic Science Club, Wednesday
afternoon. .
Quite a number of the school children
are "enjoying" a swell-up-ness of the
neck in other words the mumps.
It is reported that the U. P. railroad
company contemplate paving the
streets in the vicinity of the depot.
Harriet, the little daughter of N. P.
Gassman, is suffering from a boil on the
back of her neck. She is quite sick.
H. D. Shaffer and wife, who have
been suffering from a severe attack of
grippe for some time, are reported to
be convalescing.
Miss Johnson, who has been visiting
home friends the past month, returned
Monday night and is new at her pest of
duty in the Citizens State Bank.
Walter Runyon, who has been work
ing in the neighborhood of Palco, ar
rived home the first of the week and is
stopping with his mother on East Juni-
ata street.
The noted Kanopolis Gospel Team is
to spend Sunday at the Methodist
church conducting all the services.
According to Secretary Mohler's re
cent report, in 1914 the City of Hays
in the matter of population was the
69th, and in 1915 the 58th. Well, that
is going some for Hays.
Al Nickles ha3 been chosen as a dele
gate to the meeting of the Utilities
board at Russell, January 25. It is
hoped that Al will report a good hard
kick for better train service.
Remember at 11 o'clock, at 2:30 and
at 7:30 the Kanopolis Gospel Team will
conduct meetings at the Methodist
church.
Will Early left Sunday night for
Guthrie, Oklahoma, in answer io a
telegram that his father, D. H. Early,
who has been visiting his daughter
there, was quite ill. They returned to
Hays Thursday night.
There are several reasons besides
a low rate why it pays to get a
farm loan at .the Citizens State
Bank, Hays City, Kansas.
The popular Barney Wolfe Stock Co.
played "The Gay Mr. Thompkin ,"
Saturday night at the New Opera
House in this city. It was an excellent
comedy and was enjoyed by ail present
Monday of this week the Free Press
was made the official county paper by
the Board of County Commissioners.
It goes without saying that the pro
prietors of the paper were pleased
Thanks, gentlemen, may your shadows
never grow less.
Our special correspondent from Buck
eye has been quoted several times in
the Kansas City Daily Star recently.
The Salina Daily Journal in its "Out
There in Kansas" column also has an
occasional item -from "Buckeye Con
glomerations." Miss Jessie seems to
be getting into the lime-light.
Treasurer F. N. Dreiling, returned
Thursday morning from Phoenix, Ar
rizona, where he was called last week on
account of the illness of his brother,
Anton. He reports his brother some
what improved. Anton was suffering
from an attack of pneumonia.
The stockholders of the German Na
tional Bank held a meeting Tuesday of
this week and found the business of the
bank in a prosperous condition. Fred
Miller and J. C. Kippes, two stockhold
ers from Hays, were present. County
Treasurer Dreiling, also a stockholder
and one of the directors, was not pres
ent being with hi3 brother, Anton, who
is very ill in Arizona.
Do you want to save money on
your farm loan? See U3 this
month. We need your business
and will make a rate to get it.
J. M. Schaefer
Recently Mrs. Geo. Douglas of this
city received word that her grandfath
er, Robert White, (lately deceased) of
Augustine, Florida, had remembered
her in hi3 will and had left her a neat
little nest of about ?S,00 in money and
property. She and her husband have
been living in Hays about eighteen
months and he has been engaged, since
he came here from Plainville. in run
ning an auto livery.
Dr. Messelroades came up from Kan
sas City, Friday night, to assist Dr,
per cent failed in one subject. Three
boys and five giris failed in two sub-
i joets or nali their wotk, two boys ar.a
no g?ris failed in three subjects and
one boy Tailed in four subjects or ai:
his work.
This showing perhaps averages with
other High schools of this size. Teach
ers could be more lenient and reduce
the number of failures, making a bet
ter showing. But a high standard of
work is worth more than a mere favor
able showing. The High school facul
ty expect to maintain the standard cf
the best schools.
The great majority of our boys and
girls are earnest, hard-working students
whose conduct, spirit and attitude are
all that could be desired. An unfort
unate feature of all school work is that
the real, substantial work goes on day
by day, unnoticed and unappreciated by
the general public. Few patrons, even
know what is really going on at the
school.
The cnl' source of information most
people have is the gossip of children
usually about trivial matters of discip
line. It is the earnest desire of the
High school faculty to reduce the num
ber of failures next semester. The co
operatioh of parents is desired.
It must be bore in mind that amorg
the students failing are those comirg
to us with a big record of failures to
their credit and the habit of failing well
for.ned. It will take time and patience
to work these students into the proper
habits, ideals and spirit of a high school.
The chief cause of failure is a wrong
attitude upon the part of the student,
toward the school and school work.
Students do not take up their work
seriously enough. This results in a
lack of application, irregularity of at
tendance, tardiness, inattention in class,
loss of interest, and failure.
A high school student who has the
proper attitude of mind is almost sure
to succeed in school and in after life.
The students' attitude depends large
ly upon his home influence and training.
Young people should be taught at home
that school is a serious business; that
to fail is a disgrace; that teachers are
employed to teach and not to do police
duty and that habits of regularity and
promptness of attendance," applati,.j,
attention and right conduct, so essen
tial to the development of true man
hood and womanhood, are best learned
when applied in school.
The catch word3 "Watchful Wait
ing" have become most disgusting to
us who believe the American flag stands
for human liberty. When seventeen
good Americans can be taken from a
train of a neutral nation and shot down
and that without a protest from the
powers of Washington, is getting be
yond honorable endurance. Our Secre
tary Lansing passes the matter up by
saying "they had been told to keep
out." But when our moneyed citizens
got on a ship of a beligerant nation
deliberately went into the war zone
our president made an international
howl that made the private producer of
munitions of war shout that is it we
are with you! By entering into the
world conflict we will get rich but to
protect Americans in Mexico is hardly
worth while, seems to be the sentiment
of those munition "boosters." This
"watchful waiting" business that is
now being played for the sec
ond term is losing all its powei
to call men to Wilson's support. He U
not enaowea wun tne msignt ot a
statesman. He ha3 reversed himself
in every great question that has forced
mm to settle, me people will never
forget his attitude on the Panama tolls;
on the illiteracy bill; on his neutrality
position; the revision of tariff, and now
we wish he would reverse himself on
the Mexican situation.
The Campus Tea Room will be opened
as a luncheon Cafetria on Sunday even
ings, from 5 to G;30, and will be run as
a lunch room during tha week.
urancrainer u icugnnn, tne vener
able father of John O'Loughlin, who
has nearly reached the century mark
being 97 years of cge is at the hospital
suffering from an attack of la grippe.
Don't forget that at H. D. Earlv and
Sons you can get first class shoe repair
ing. They are thoronghJy equipped
-.villi moac-m machinery and their watch
word is "dispatch." Give them a call.
Sheriff Robinson has bten very busy
sines he was appointed to the office,
January 1. His first official was the
ving of a summons irom Justice of
has been "whoopin-'er-up" ever since
THE GENEALOGY 0F THE DOLLAR BEGINS
WITH THE PENNY.
If you would produce the dollar, foster
the penny. Xhe bank is the only busi
ness that asks you to save your money.
All other lines want you to spend it.
Start to-day with a few dollars and get a
new pass book and watch it grow.
FIRST NATIONAL BANK
HAYS, KANSAS
Haas in operating on Wm. Palmer.
xne operation too irum ten o cloct un- tae Pcace C. W. Liter's office, and he
tii iour tne next morning. Although
Will was seriouslv ininrpd Ha rs croHinrr
along nicely. It will probably be sixtv j J ohn F' Ca&e' contest manager of the
days and perhaps longer before he ia f 'CapPer PiS Cluh" 13 de"u3 of se
able to be up. And if he is able to re- j ?anr-- a b y f rom Eihs county, who
same his duties on the-farm inside of a 1 wants to beconie a member. Address,
year he will be doing well. ' ; John F. Case. Contest Manager, Cap-
. : per Building, Topeka, Kansas, for par-
Did you ever stop to thins, that ticalars. "
when you secure your farm loan. ! 7J. r. : , . - - ; . T.
ina Mii t-.idi. muci: ti LltXS in. ar.sy
All are invited to attend the services
at the Methodist church next Sunday.
The Kanopolis Gospel Team will be
present.
' Taken up at my place Monday even
ing a spotted Jersey cow. Owner
can have same by proving property and
paying for this notice and her keep.
Frank King.
You will save money by placing
your farm loan with us. We pay
cash as soon as papers are signed
J. M. Schaefer.
Get your farm loan at our bank.
We will appreciate the business, and
besides, we are in position to give
you special service on all real estate
loans. Citizens State Bank, Hays
City, Kansas.
We have a splendid bargain in a fine
high grade Kimball piano in Hays.
Piano is in practically perfect condition
and has just been taken in exchange on
a player piano. Instrument can be seen
in Hays and in order to save reshipping
will sacrifice same to responsible party
for cash or can be bought on easy month
ly or quarterly payments. Address,
W. W. Kimball Co.
Topeka, Kansas.
The Citizens State Bank, . Hays
C:ty,Kan&as, has a regular farm
loan department All interest pay
ments are made there. If you should
happen to have a bad year, they
will naturally feel under obligations
to help you as you had favored
them with the original business.
There's a big change come over the
country weekly papers of Tfanaas "the
last few years. The editors used to tear
their shirts pff and whoop it up to elect
every man on the ticket of their politi
cal choice. Now they look at the mat
ter as a business proposition. If someone
wants to be elected state treasurer, or
governor, or sheriff the editor regards
him the same as the man that wants
to sell groceries or drygoods and makes
him pay for his ad accordingly. We
have already had boiler plate and read
ers sent to us by men who want state
political jobs but our space is to valu
able to run this stuff for nothing. Wil-'
son World.
The Citizens State Bank, Hays
City, Kansas, always has plenty of
money to loan on good farms. They
will make you a special rate during
January.
Found,
A small sum of money. Inquire at
the Hays city Drug Store.
The best 160 in Ellis county adjoining
Hays, for sale. Come in and let me
show it to you. It has a fine modern
house and is an ideal home. I am going
to sell it, so get a close to town farm.
The price is right. John H. Wood.
We have two high grade pianos that
we will sell for less than half of the
original cost. H. C. Schultz
r.
SPARR
SPECIALIST
WILL BE IN HAYS CITY
Wednesday, Jan. 26th.
At the WINDSOR HOTEL
For One Day Only
On His Regular Monthly Visits
Hours: 9 a.m to 6 pjn.
For the past five years statesmen,
college professors, and other scientific
men have been preaching untiringly tha
theories of conversation, as applied to
natural resources, soil fertility elc
homing to heck -ii-piigibi wte ef
the natural elements with which a bounteous-nature
has supplied her children.
Much more important to you is your
health, without which you are unable to
enjoy any of the resources or pleasures
of life. If you feel that you are not up
to the usual standard . of health; not
able to do your usual quota of daily
work, suffer from aches, pams and dis
abilities, stop and consider would it
be best for you to consult a specialist
for this trouble now or wait until the
ravages of disease have made it impos
sible for you to ever be well again.
Strayed r Stol&n.
Two head of calves. First missed
December 31, notify, Ed Blender,
Kays.
For Sal
Second hand Ford, electric light and
starter. Second hand 30 H. P. Buiek.
J. H. Ward,
Hays, Kansas,
To Trade for Land.
A c;I store building with a rood.
clean stock of merchandise; aUo'a good
eleven room residence. Will trade, for
good farming land or ranch. Who can
match it:
HE DOES NOT USE THE KNIFE.
Furniture Reliniahinj.
I am now nreoared
months to do furniture refinishing, if nd the Tobacco Habit.
Dr. Sparr treats diseases of the
Stomach, Intestines, Liver, Blood,
Skin, Nerves, Heart, Spleen, Kidneys,
Bladder, Sexual Diseases, Diseases of
Women, Rheumatism, Diabetes, Catar
rah, Bed-Wetting, Leg Ulcers, certain
fcrcs rf Paralysis, Weak Lungs, Asth
ma :!ronchitU, Appendicitis, GaU
StocpfT, GoiUr, Tumors, Cancers, Eil
iossnfiss. Dyspepsia, Dropsy, Emacia
tion, Epilepsy, Headache, Sleepless
cess, Neurasthenia, Obesity, Pleurasy
rofulou3 Diseases. Diseases of Hen
you have anything in this line that
needs attention, call up phone 342.
L. G. Bell.
Resident Painter
Notice t Hunters.
Owing to the fact that irresponsible
parties have been hunting on our land.
Killing squirrels and other game that
there is a closed season on, we are com
pelled to forbid any - hunting or tres
passing cn any of our farms without
written permission from the owners.
C. G. -Cochran & Soc3,
Hays City and Plainville, Xaas&s.
Caaaty Warrants.
,have paved their streets with lasting j Notice is hereby given, that there
, material than any other state m the -.ia ; v n
I - - w. uic wuuij xreabuiy
' ' e ai-' tv mv all Txa i
jccLL j-uuuan wiui rriiucvcr yuu material man any
take the loan from? It is a pretty : Union. - Hays is getting in hne
good plan to know . whom you are ' red bave wte w7 on oae stree ! up to Register Number 5222, and Bride
dealing witn. ine Citizens btate K T -"; warrants to fceguter No. icla-
Bank.Hays City. Kans, will look &tw ' 3? V.J. ff
Sfter voiir interiors if vnn 5r th f-v w.. we cate.e xzj j.r-iiirS
ls2zi tissu tics.
try Az.3
Fred
Dreiling,
The doctor
medicines.
furnishes all his m
Itching, Bleeding Blind or Protrud
ing Piles quickly and permanently cured
WITHOUT THE KNIFE. No cutting,
no chloroform or other dangerous anes
thetic used. He gives a contract and
guarantee to cure every case he treats-
no matter how long standing, or your
refund every cent of your monev.
If you- are afflicted with thi3 painful
and troublesome malady it will pay you
to call and have a talk with him.
The doctor is authorized by the State
cf Kar.saa to treat all chronic d
of men and women. - -
Examination and consultation frea
and cgsf4mtial
OHce Address: E. E. SPARR. M tS'
223 Glendale Bli.,
th si Grazd Ave., Hzrl Citj, lis.
Qzt City 2,V:! r -- -
