WTrfa Oia Nexft W<edk?
You often wonder, if you're *
photo-play fan? Well, the best
way we know of to find out it to
watch The Star. For instance,
look at page 3 of today's issue.
MMIMBIKMB
THREE CHILDREN AMONG DEAD
BUSINESS MEN
OPEN CAMPAIGN
IN R. R. RATE FIGHT
MR. BUSINESS MAN, this is a BIG matter to
YOU—this question of eliminating the dif
ferential rate.
WHAT ARE YOU DOING ABOUT IT?
WHAT ARE YOU GOING TO DO ABOUT
IT?
For years you have been asked to contribute
to this and that fund to attract tourists here, and
all the time the biggest attraction of all, the same
round-trip railroad rate that Southern Califor
nia gets, has been denied to Seattle by the rail
roads allied with the Oregon-Washington line.
You, Mr. Business Man, who have been ship-
Sgg. traffic over the 0-W., can do mora in a
y than the interstate commerce commission
can do in • year!
Why don't YOU, Mr. Business Man, make
the O-W. explain why it doesn't give YOU the
same chance for your white alley as it five* Los
Angeles and San Diego?
Seattle has gone to bat Saturday with the allied South
ern railway lines, determined to see erpiali/ed Chicago-
Pacific coast round-trip passenger rates in effect before the
next tourist season.
"Knock out the differential!"
That is the cry taken up by Seattle business men and at
least one commercial organization since The Star sounded
the tall to arms Friday, and explained how this city and the
Northwest are being discriminated against by a schedule of
lower rates over the Southern lines than obtain over Northeri.
routes.
Every influence will be brought to bear on the interstate
commerce commission to pet a speedy hearing of the prefer
ential rate case in order that the Northwest, if possible, may
reap its just riiare of profit from next summer's tourist travel.
First to act was the Seattle Commercial club.
• Its transportation bureau was hastily called together Fri
day afternoon. The loose ends of the matter, which, after
discussion recently, nad been shelved temporarily, were gath
ered up
\\ ithin two hours' time the club ha>: taken a stand unan
imously in favor of abolishing the differential rates, and had
dispatched a message to the interstate commercc commission
at Washington, I). C.
I he first gun fired, the Commercial club is Saturday pre
paring to send a broadside into the allied Southern lines
( ommunications arc to be sent to every other commercial
organization in the Northwest Taroma, Spokane, Portland
and other cities and towns urging them to join in the fight
for an early hearing of the plea for equal roundtrip rates and
prosjierity.
Realization 'if just what the preferential rate« over the
Southern lines, from Chicago to San Francisco and return,
IT'S GOING TO BE COLDER, HE SAYS
I It's *oln* to get colder, ,
, That'a the newa from the weather
bureau.
"The wind switched around t
the southeaHt, and now It'a switch
ing back to the north." said Hirer,-
tor Salisbury Saturds "That i
COMMERCIAL CLUB GETS BUSY
THE SEATTLE COMMERCIAL CLUB, composed of l,soo\business and professional men, already has taken
off its coat and started to work in the campaign begun by The Star for the elimination of the preferential
railroad round-trip rates which keep the bulk of the Pacific coast tourists away from Seattle and the Northwest. The club, late Friday afternoon, sent the following sizzling
telegram to the interstate commerce commission at Washington, D. C.:
"The Seattle Commercial Club unanimously requests favorable action by your honorable body in eliminating preferential rates made by Southern railroads from Eastern
points to California. The Commercial Club heartily approves the petition filed with your honorable commission in this matter by the public service commission of the
state of Washington. The Commercial Club also stands ready to assist in supplying your commission with evidence of the gross injustice done the entire Northwest in this
matter. We urge a speedy hearing of the case. Otherwise the Northwest will have no opportunity of obtaining its rightful share of the immense tourist trade during the
coming summer."
(Continued on page 5.)
, means that Instead of 'he weather
getting warmer It will probably get
colder."
Hut It Is to be "fair" Saturday
night and Sunday.
The coldest It got Saturday was
'12. That was at. o'clock in the
morning
The Seattle Star
: THE ONLY PAPEH IN SEATTLE THAT DARES TO PRINT THE NEWS :
VOLUME 18k
Pity Poor Carman! Call Up Kempster
The conductors and motormen. who, theoretically, ought to be pnyeieally fit to combat all klnda of
weather, becauae they are working m the open air day after day. are giving way before the ravagea of grip
and pneumonia.
Wort waa received by The Star Saturday from Seattle Electric employee that 50 motormen and con.
ductore were aick from exposure
On lh« 40th at. car line, the men have to huddle over a fire which they have built In the atreet to thaw
out. The picture ihowi the crew of one car getting warm over the fire.
MAYOR LINES
UP WITH STAR
"The bl**eat thin* that could be
don« for the Northwest right now i
would be to knork out the unjust
differential rate*. I'm with The
'star In ihla fight. and the whole
Northwest ought to be," declared
Mayor 111 GUI.
That'a the way Seattle'a mayor
Jumped Into the fight against rail
road rale discrimination Saturday.
It moans more to the community
rlartit now than any other thing I
ran think of.' said the mayor "If
the railroad rnmptn; waan't nicely
tied up everywhere, It probably
would have been done lon# ago.
"I can't see how any one would
defend the situation It'a *o unjust
thin It'* a crime to hlt back and let
conditions continue as they are
"My brother-in-law Uvea in New
York, lie came out here not ion*
a*o on a trip. Me I* still aore be
cauae th" railroad ratea were le»n
to *o to San Kranclaco by way of j
New Orleans, from Chicago. than
they were to com» out to Seattle
and return, yet the distance he
would travel on the Northern lines
was inurh shorter "
II" said the only way to wipe
SRATTLE, WASH, SATURDAY, JANUARY 15. 1916
The paaaengera aren't the only people who auffer from r ding on cold atreet care during thie weather
out the differential would be to
arouse general Intereet.
"It's a hard task to put It over," j
said the mayor, "hut It Is too big a |
thin* for the community to alt quiet
about It'a *0 unjust that I think It !
can be eventually knocked out "
BOY COASTER HORT
Sanford Freeman Ilea In a crlli a!
condition at the city hospital as tlie
reeult of Injurle* received whin tin
sled he waa riding crashed Into a
telephone pole on the Columbia ft.
hill Thursday night lie nas taken
to hla home. 1114 Clerry at., and
later to the city hospital
LEFT WITH PAYROLL
KVANSVIIXK. Ind . Jan 15 —
Assistant bookkeeper George Kink,
of the Hercules llu**y Co. entered
his office today, picked up $20.0'iu
Intended for the payroll, and made
hla eacaro.
Weather Forecast
Generally fair tonight and
Sunday; continued cold.
liiikm at ar.ATTi k
Hleh u*
.1,11 a. m„ 12.1 It. 7 >4*l a. ni . 10.3 It
12i17 n 111 . 12 2 It HllO p. m . 2.1) O
EXPLOSION ON
SOBMARINE
_____
NKW YORK. Jan. 15 -An ex
plosion which ripped off the top of
the submarine E-2. at the llrooklyn
navy yard. I* known to have claim
ed one life, and perhaps other*.
•Slorle* outside the yard *ald five
men had |>erl*hed outright In the
blast. and that upward of I.', were
probably fatally Injured
Officers refused Information of
the disaster until the lint of victims
hail been prepared, but It was un
officially admitted that "over three
or four" were killed
Trouble with batlerle* was «.«-
signed hm the cause.
A wave of flame* swept the In
terior of the undersea vessel Just
after the explosion, trapping the
men In th« bull, and leaving man
holes In the rear of Ihe ship a*
their only means of escape.
II was believed that many of the
crew of Ml, most of whom were
aboard when the blast came, were
seriously burned.
FYanU Fernandfli, a burglar. w»b
J spntßnrml Saturday by Superior
I Judge Konald to s«»rv»> four to flf
t«pn warn In tin |>onl tentUry
one cent
TACOMA CRAFT
SPILLS HUMAN
.CARGOINSOUND
TACOMA, Jan. 15.—Several persons are believed to have lost their lives when
the Victor Second, a large gasoline passenger launch, capsized off Point Defiance
in a heavy wind, just before noon today.
The bodies of three have been recovered, and it is feared several others were
drowned. Walter Bower, 7, and Florence Bower, 14, children of O. S. Bower, of
Fox bland, were two of the victims. The third, a girl about 12 years of age, has
not yet been identified.
The steamer Atalanta stood by the Victor and launches were immediately sent
out from boat houses on the water front to render aid.
Reports telephoned in from the pavilion at Point Defiance park stated that
•everal persons were seen struggling in the water following the accident, but it is
not known how many were drowned.
Tba Yicfee Second pbad between Jacom* and AUyix and N Bay
points. The scene of the capsizing is about Five miles from the dry ami u~twto
in-shore. J
A report, which had not been confirmed at 1:30 p. m., stated that 20 persons
perished.
Among the survivor* are Jack Ashbrook, salesman for A. Schilling & Co. of
San Francisco, and James Harris, also a traveling salesman.
Three bodies have been recovered and taken on board the Atlanta, and eight
survivors were brought to Tacoma on launches and rushed to the police station,
where they are being cared for.
EXPLANATION UP
TO AMBASSADOR
Von Bernstorff Must Tell U
S. About Von Papert
Letters
SHOW HE HIRED SPIES
WASHINGTON. Jan. 15.—
German Ambastador Von Bern
etorff today faced the neceeelty
for embarrassing explanation*
aa a reault of diacloauree of
money expendituree *hown In
document* telzed In England
from Capt Von Papan, the re
called German attache.
Tlieae document* ehowed
that, under the head of "War
Intelligence" account, he had
turned over to Von Papen large
■umi, and that theee. In turn,
had been dletrlbuted varlouely
thruout the country juet before
certain anti ally bomb "job*"
were executtd.
tt I* regarded a* possible thai
the ambassador will have difficulty
In defending lit* connection with
Von I'apen's work work that made
the attache non giata with this
government.
Hint at Recall Pocelblllty
Official* pointed out thai con
elusive, legal proof of wrongdoing
I* not required to Impair the am
bassador s diplomatic usefulness;
merely belief or moral certainty of
such misconduct Is sufficient for
recall.
London publication of Von I'a
(Continued on page 5.)
\TI6H / T
iHewhon JL
A number of survivor* were land
ed by rescue steamers st the mu
nicipal dock here shortly after
noon and were given first aid be
fore being sent to their homes or
to hospitals
All were suffering from severe
bruises and cuts, the latter proli
ably due to their struggles In
breaking their way thru the glass
enclosed cabin of the wrecked boat.
It Is believed about 40 passengers
were on board the Victor 11.
when she capsized.
A terrific gale waa blowing off
Point Defiance and the gasoltne
l>oat 1* thought to have been cap
sized by the big waves that were
rolling about the treacherous point.
Many small pleasure craft and
several barge* were smashed at
the park host house and rescue
launches had trouble In making
their way to the scene of the wreck
by reason of the heavy seas.
American Legion
Formed in Canada
to Fight in Europe
Ole Hanson received a latter
Saturday from Arthur Dent
mora, a former Beattle man,
now in Sundbreck, Alberta, in
which Denamore declared an
American Legion I* being re
cruited at Calgary for service
In Europe.
When the recruiting opened,
he said. the office wa* crowded
with Amsrlcana anxlou* for a
chance to fight, and a line of
them extended clear around
the block.
One American, Denimore
■aid, had purchaaed hla dis
charge from the U. S. marine*
*o he could enlist with the
Legion. He was a member of
the landing party at Vera Cruz
and had a medal given him by
the government for heroism on
that occasion.
CAN'T AGREE ON
CONSOLIDATION
Commercial Club Committee
Not Satisfied With Pro
posed Terms
CALL IT THE CHAMBER'
Representative* of the Cham
ber of Commerce, the Mer
chanta' Exchange and other
commercial organization* had
failed utterly, Saturday, to
reach any agreement with the
Commercial Club'* committee,
appointed to consider plan* for
consolidating the club with the
chamber.
A plan submitted by the Mer
rhant*' Kxchange. as mediator, at a
Joint meeting. Friday, of committees
from the various organizations in
terested. was not approved by the
Commercial Club's committee.
It provides that the consolidate I
commerclsl body shail bear the
name of the Chamber of Commerce,
which shall be capitalized for $200.-
000, represented by 2.000 shares oC
stock at $100 per share
It also provide* for rpftular. asso
ciate and trading members. Regu
lar member* shHll have the sole
riKht to vote and ohall l>e owners of
stork.
J. \V. Maxwell, of the Commercial
Club committee, said Saturday that,
while the plan did not meet wl'h
the atiproval of the committee, it
would be passed on to the club (or
consideration next Tuesday
"Wo paused it on without roconi
nipndutlon." hp wild, "and will Ic
tht> tenure rluh ron*i >r it Out
comnjtttfp. frankly, could not ;icie>
on lh»' proposition."
