THE COLFAX CHRONICLE
* Absorbed the GRANT PARISH DEMOCRAT May 1, 1909
A Democratic journal, devoted to Local and General News, Literature, Science, Agriculture, 6tc.
VOL. XL COLFAX, GRANT PARISH, LA., SATURDAY, JANUARY 15, 1916 NUMBER
To the Voters of Grant Parish. vestigations, surveys, reports. etc., to- 1916. at the sum of four hundred antd I
To the Voters of Grant Parish.
When I announced my candidacy for
tax assessor of this parish I was of the
opinion that the people would elect me,
and I wish to say that my opinion i6
still the same.
I mtri what is usually termed a tar
heel and a pea-picker, having been
reared in the pine hills of ward seven.
I have lived on a farm all my lite and
looked to no other source than my ef
forts on the farm for sulpport.
My attendance at the Verda school
was very irregular, owing to the fact
that I had to make and gather a crop a
each year. Under these conditions I t
completed the tenth grade. My mother o
sold timber from her homestead, thus Ii
enabling me to attend Louisiana College
for a period of nine'months. I then t,
attended three terms at the Louisiana o
Industrial Institute. going at a season ti
of the year when I was least needed on
the farm. While in school at Ruston tl
I paid every cent of my board by work- b,
ing mornings, evenings and Saturdays. ti
I took a business course as an indus- vi
trial while attending the L. 1. I., and al
in the summer of 1909 obtained a first
grade teachers' certificate. Since that fil
time I have taught in the public schools pi
of Grant parish during the fall and
winter months, and farmed during the st
spring and summer months. J.
As I was the only support of a wid- ry
owed mother and a widowed sister with
three children, it was impossible for an
me to complete a college education. to
My sister's children were at an age ac
that school days meant much to them
and I gave them a chance to go. They
will remain in school regardless of how fri
you vote on the 25th of this month- mi
thtt is, if I stay able to work. But I rot
have always believed that the people of G.
Grant parish would assist the man who Mc
tried to help himself, especially when Co
they could do so without incurring loss
to themselves. an(
ntlemen, I am on trial. My record per
is m ness. January 25 is the er
time. You are t e, and I await dar
with confidence your ve t six
Cordially yours,, . - loci
C. J. CALHOUN. '
Ofcail Proceedings Grant Parish Po
lice Jury. fres
(Continued from last week.) mit
roar
Colfax, La., Jan. 5, 1916. roar
The police jury met pursuant to ad- roar
journment. All the members were pres- tow
ent. The minutes of the proceedings W.
of January 4th were read and approved. Ant
Dr. Buffington offered the following Hor
resolution: 0
Whereas the police jury has been no- sala
tified by the State Highway Depart- at
ment-Board of State Engineers-un- ($g
der act of March 12, 1915, that on the 1916
first day of January 1916, the State urer
Highway Fund collected during the acco
year 1915, will be apportioned among sam
the parishes qualified for state aid on the
or before that date, and cour
Whereas, to participate in this fund prise
it is required by the Highway Depart- It
ment that the police jury of this parish the
must make this application and peti- at pi
tion to the Highway Department be- Or
for the 15th day of May, 1915, so that J. H
the Highway Department may have dolla
ample time to make the necessary in- on n
vestigations, surveys, reports, etc., It
and so that the police jury of this par- and
labsh may also have ample time, when On
said investigations, surveys, reports, to hi
etc., have been made by the said high- repa
way Department in which to authorize Mr
the issuance and sale of bonds or to have
vote special taxes or otherwise before pairs
January 1st, 1916, that may be neces- On
sary towards raising sufficient funds to lowir
meet the parish's portion of cost of the point
proposed projects, and locat
Whereas the State Highway Depart- place
ment, Board of State Engineers re- the
quires this parish to advance the ap- at Zi,
proximate cost of said investigations, Brazi
surveys, reports, etc., therefore M. C
Be it resolved, That the police jury of On
Grant parish, in regular session con- freeh
vaned, hereby make formal application and 1I
and petition the State Highway depart- Bank
ment, Board of State Engineers for Creec
monetary aid, investigations, sur- at tt
veys, reports, etc., under the provis- Bradi
ions of Act,49 of 1910 for the construe- mond
tion of the following named highway: IColev
PFom Gegrgetown to Packton a distance Mr.
of about twelve miles. of irol
Be it further resolved, That the pres- Dixie
ident of the police jury of Grant par- one, t
,i be, and is hereby authorized and iFebru
Instructed to draw on the parish treas- of 191
;ar and issue to the Highway Depart- motiol
*."unt, Board of State Engineers, a Croix,
ehek for two hudred and forty dollars voted
($S40.00), this amount being the ap- Watsc
proximate total cost of making said was ar
uurveya, at $20.00 per mile, the State On
SHIlghway Department, Board of State ized to
,giners, agreeing to reimburse the openet
- perish of Grant any of the above nam- A r
ed fund over and above the amount amoun
lasesary to cover the cost of said in- toe, F
'..~
a. vestigations, surveys, reports. etc., to
y for gether with an itemizrd statement
)f the showing the exact amount expended in
t me, making said investigation, surveys,
on i. reports, etc.
The resolution was adopted.
tar The police jury considered a petition
been (which was read) asking the State
Rven. Rail Road Commission to order a re
and duction of rail road rates on sand, grayv
ef- el and other materials used in the con
struction of public roads.
-hool The petition was approved.
fact A resolution was adopted approving
crop and endorsing the proposed action of
ns I Congress in appropriating funds in aid
ther of the building and maintenence of pub
thus lic roads. I
lege A petition was presented asking that t
then the name of Ittie Allbright be placed b
iana on the pauper list. On motion the pe- a
ason tition was refused. 1i
d on A petition was presented asking that p
ston the name of Mrs. Samantha Netherlin p
ork- be placed on the pauper list. The pe- p
sya. tition was granted and the firm of Pur- %
dus- vis & Gilcrease, at New Verda, was w
and appointed as agent. a
irst On motion the name of Lizzie Sinque- t1
hat field was ordered stricken from the ir
ools pauper lsst.
and On motion it was ordered that the ri
the sum of four dollars ($4.00) be paid to ei
J. R. Miller on account of pauper Hen- ct
vid- ry Sharbino now deceased. ti
rith The committee appointed to review p(
for and locate the public road from Colfax th
on. to Kateland station made a report of or
age action taken in locating the road. di
em The report was ordered filed. pr
fey On motion the following named six de
ow freeholders were appointed as a com
i- mittee to review and locate the public mi
it I road from Colfax to Kateland station: th
of G. H McKnight, Earl Roberts, J.'H. do
rho McNeely, John Randolph, F. C. La- an
fen Cour and P.-A. Dean. tic
)ss The committee appointed to review ap
and locate the public road from the up
ird per Colfax-Alexandria road to the low- Go
be er Colfax-Alexandri road on the boun- chi
sit dary line between townships five and Th
six made a report of action taken in set
locating the road. Ad
The report was ordered filed.
_ On motion the following named six
free holders were appointed as a com
mittee to review and locate the public
road from the upper Colfax-Alexandria mu
road to the lower Colfax-Alexandria anc
d- road on the boundary lines between late
s- townships five and six: Isaac Butts, lov
3s W. E. Teddlie, F. M. Morris, J. M. fell
d. Anthony, D. W. Honeycutt and S. L. fan
ig Honeycutt. and
On motion it was ordered that the Car
- salary of the parish treasurer be fixed spe
at tthe sum of six hnndred dollars ser
- ($600.00) per annum from January Ist, blei
1e 1916, it being provided that the treas- one
:e urer shall systematize the business and
Le accounts of the parish and keep the
g same in a set of books, practically in irre
n the same way as the books and ac- feel
counts of private and corporate enter- u
d prises are handled. the
It was also ordered that the salary of the
h the clerk of the police jury remain as tion
at present. nau
On motion it was ordered that Mr. Oua
t J. H. Wardlows be paid the sum of ten
e dollars ($10.00) on account of interest N
on note for mules. der
It was ordered that the motor truck
and crew be laid off for sixty days.
On motion Mr. Dunn was authorized lice
to have the bridge on Fushmo creek re-E
repaired. citi
Mr. Richardson was authorized to lice
have the bridge on the Dartigo re-and
paired.
On motion of Dr. Buffington the fol- tion
Slowing named six freeholders were ap- 191'
Spointed on a committee to review and was
locate a public road from C. Ambugs T
- place on Georgetown-Colfax road to
the Natchitoches-Harrisonburg road thi
at Zion church: J. D. McConothy, J. B. fron
Brazeale. G. L. Coburn, Silas Morris, The
M. C. Starks and Jeff Bankston. ly ai
On motion the following named six
freeholders were appointed to review
and locate a public road from T. A. plan
Bankston's residence, across Bear to t
Creed to the Colfax-Georgetown road dale
at the old Bradford place: James polic
Bradford, T. A. BanKston, J. W. Ham
mond, Isam Kees, George Cupp and ing
Colev Norris. sen
Mr. LaCroix movedlthat twocarloads like
of iron culverts be purchased from the body
Dixie Culvert Co., for the use of wards and
one, two, five and seven, to be paid for
February first, 1917, out of revenues r
of 1916. Dr. Bufrington seconded the reqt
motion. The vote was taken and La- defe
Croix, Nugent, Buffingtom and Dunn
voted in favor of the motion. Mr. .
Watson voted against it. The motion
was adopted. , aa
On motion Mr. LaCroix was author- write
ized to have certain cuiverts and drains I
opened and cleaned. w
A resolution was passed fixing the
amount to be paid to Mr. R. H. Ben- throa
tom, Farm mDemonrau for tihe yr saw.
c., to- 1916. at the sum of four hundred and
ement fifty dollars ($450.000).
led in A resolution was adopted authorizing
veys, the presideef of the police jury -to exe
cute a note in favor of the Bank of
Colfax for the amount of ten thousand
tition dollars, or as much thereof as may be
State necessary.
a re- The police jury adjourned until the
Zrav- first Monday i:n February.
con- R. W. RICHARDSON,
Miss H. E. CAMERON, Prest.
Clerk.
ving
)n of (Continused next week.)
n aid A Business Administration.
pub- If it be true, as stated by Governor
Hall, and there can be no doubt of it,
that that the State's financial system is
aced broken down, the first thing needed is
e pe- a change of doctors, then ought to fol
low a change of treatment. What is
that primarily wanted in all the fiscal de
erlin partments of the State is trained, ex
pe- perienced and reliable financiers, men
Pur- who know all about the system and
was will stick to the patient day and night
and see that he gets the right medicine,
que- the proper treatment and scientic nurs
the ing.
In this crucial emergency we natu
the rally turn to Dr. O. B. Steele as a sei
I to entific expert, who has proven a suc
len- cess in both his public and private prac
tice. Capt. Steele is probably the best
'iew posted man in Louisiana's finances in
fax the entire State. When he was Audit
of or, when he was Treasurer, the system
did not BREAK DOWN. It thrived and
prospered and properly cared for every
six demand of all its institutions.
mn- The beauty about Capt. Steele's ad
blic ministration of the Auditor's office is
on: that he sits on the job. His deputies
'H. do the work of deputies, but his head
La- and hands run the office. He is a prac
tical financier, and State finance is his
ew specialty.
up- The Auditor and Treasurer with the
,w- Governor are to bring order out of
un- chaos in the State's money matters.
nd The State cannot fail to secure such
in services as Capt. Steele possesses.
Advertisement.
six Card of TIanks.
m- Pollock, La., Jan. 10, 1916.
lie The many kind citizens of the com
ria munity who showed so much solicitude
ria and extended so much help during the
en late fatal illness and death of our be
loved wife and mother, have the heart
felt thanks and gratitude of our entire
L. family. To Drs. Willett, Donaldson
and Wilson, and members of Timber
he Camp No. 150 W. O. W., we feel under
ed special obligations for their valuable
rs service and kindness shown. May the
blessings of Kind Providence rest on
one and all. W. G. KNox & SONS.
id January's "Slowlag Up."
7e Winter indoor life, heavy food and
in irregular exercise cause a dull, tired
c- feeling. Foley Cathartic Tablets tone
r- up the stomach and bowels, liven up
the liver, cleanse the system and give
)f the light, free feeling of proper diges- dec
ºs tion and good health. Do not gripe or can
nauseate. J. W. Duncan Co.--Adv.
r. Ouachita Election on Prohibition De. the
n nied. A
't Monroe, La., Jan. 12.-In or
der to put on record the mem- Ge
k bers of the Ouachita parish po
d lice jury who are candidates for F
k re-election, a delegation of local Tar
citizens appeared before the po- and
o lice jury at its meeting to-day mas
and askod for a prohibition elec- ey'i
.tion to be effective January 1, to
1917, if carried. Their request e
I was denied.
The delegation numbered about
Sthirty but presented no petition
from the voters of the parish.
The question was handled secret
ly and no one outside of the dele- And
gation knew anything of the Tl
planguntil they were presented mon
to the police jury. J. H. Trous- ly ai
dale, as spokesman, entered the "kI
police jury room after the meet- M
ing was called and said he repre- "M3
sented a committee that would I co
like to present a question to the hout
body. Permission was granted tr
and the committee entered the twin
room, presenting the committee's The
request. The proposition was seree
defeated by a vote of 8 to 3. and
- kidno
Six-Year-Old Had Croup. of I)D
"I have a littlegirl six years old who Dixii
has a good deal of trouble with eroup," good
writes W. E. Curry, Evansville, Ind. faith
"1 have used Foley's Honey and Tar, when
obtaining instant relief for her. My POm
wife and I also use it and will say it is
the best cure for a bad cold, cough,
throat trouble lad trmop that I ever ton I
saw. J. W. Dncan Co.-Adv. Det
tA ----
Great Con
solidation
One of the Biggest Sales ever attempt
ed in Colfax will begin
Thursday, January20
We don't mean by this that wq wilt
have bigger bills and larger :signs,,but
we do mean that we have the largest
stock and best assortment of high grade
merchandise that has ever been throwhi
on the mercy of the public. See oýe of
our circulars and note the enormous se.
ductions on our entire stock.
Peoples' Cash Store
W. B. STROTHER~ Manager
In Union Mercantile b6mpany. Building N
No----. - --- -•
Notice.
To the Voters of Ward Two:
After considering the matter I have
decided to withdraw from the rate as a
candidate for first justice of the'peace.
I also desire to thank my friends fdr
the interest manifested in my behalf.
Respectfully yours,
S. D. GATES.
Get Rid of a Racking La Grippe Cough
---It Weakens.
For the severe racking cough that
comes with lagrippe, Foley's Honey and
Tar Compound is wonderfully healing
and soothing. R. G. Collins, ex-post
master, Barnegat, N. J., says: "Fol
ey's Honey and Tar Compound soon
stopped the severe la grippe cough that
completely exhausted me. It can't be
beat. J. W. Duncan Co.-Adv.
People's Cash Store, Limited, the
Big Deparment Store.
It Happened in Colfax
And is Happening to Colfax People
Every Week.
The case told below is not an uncom
mon thing. The same occurs frequent
ly and will continue to happen ap long
as folks have kidneys and overtax the
kidneys.
Mrs. J. D. Boston, Colfax. says:
"My back caused me a lot of misery.
I could hardly get taround to do my
housework and should have been in bed.
When I stooped over I could harily
straighten up. owing to the sharp
twingesthat darted through my loins.
The pain was so had that I felt like
screaming. My kidneys were weak
and I was caused annoyance by the
kidney secretions. I took three boles I
of Doan's Kidney Pills procured at the I
Dixie Pharmacy and was restored to
good health. I have got just as much
faith in Doan's Kidney Pills now as
when I publicl recommended them
some time ago.'
Price 50c, at alt dealers. Don't sim.
y ask for a kidney remedy-get Dosesn
y Pills- the same that Mrs. Be-.
ton had. Foster-Milburn Co., rs.,
D _alo-N- . ..
Down On His Back.
"About two years ago l got down on
my ,back," writes Solomon Bequette,
Flat Riven Mo. "I got a 50e box of
Foley Kidney Pills and they straighten
ed me right up. I recommend them t
all who have kidney trouble." Rheu.
matic aches and pains, soreness and
stiffness, yield quickly to Foley Kidney
Pills. J. W. Duncan Co. -Adv.
Bridging the distance 'twixt
you and "anywhere."
The Bell Telephone, wfth its 16,000,N miles of
wire, brings millions of people within earshot of
your voice.
Many thousand of them, living within fifty or a
hundred miles, can be reached for a small toll charge.
Are you making use of this vast bridge on your
farm, in your home or in your business. There's a
3rofit of time, money or convenience for you in the
sell Telephone If you will use it.
Gratp the Oppbrtunity!
Call or write the manager to-day.
CUMBERLAND TELEPHONE
STERAP OPAN
1 5
Orr Jt·*r Offer-Tis sad Sk.
Don't miss this. Cat out this slip,
ealose with 4ve cents to Foley & Co.,
tChicago, Ill., writing your name and
address clearly. y'ou will receive in
etura trial package contdAin Fo
Iey' Hoae n rad Tar Coned for
cI land ci , Foley Kidney
Pills, and Foley Cathartic Tablets. J.
W. incan Co.--Adv.
