The True Democrat.
VOL. XXIV IS. FRANCISVILL,. WEST FELICIANA PARISH, LOUISIANA, SATURDAY., JANUARY 15, 11 NO. 1U
you want toenjoy living dur
ing 1916, buy your groceries
from George Rettig...........
WOODLAWN FARM
J. B. McGElEE (1836-1918)
We stand upon the threshold of a new year, to bring,
we trust, harder work than ever with its attendant mauling.
But thus compelling our faithful tilhids to unlock their stores
to us and to those dependent, to furnish cheer for the guest
within our gates and help for our less fortunate brother, we
shall find as always the complete satisfaction that CaEATION
is perfect and EAaTH an admirable home.
Our best wishes to every sentient being!
$UCCUIs LIES IN MUTUAL SERVICE.
J. . McGEHEE - - - - Laurel Hill, La.
TEST YOUR OWN EYES
With this MACHINE EYE
TESTER (patent applied for),
which has a complete assortment
of all the different strength
lenses mounted in a revolving
wheel, you can, by actual trial
yourself, select a pair of reading
glasses that will give you perfect
comfort and satisfaction.
We can furnish any style frame
you may select, at low prices.
You need a pair of glasses now.
Come in at once and let us de
monstrate this new practical
Machine Eye Tester.
i Mumford's Royal Pharmaey
aR0iUonM rT I ST FRANCIIVILLEL LA
THE FORD TRACTOR
I have the agency for the Ford Tractor and will have a
demonstrator here soon. The Ford will deliver 16 h. p. at
the belt and 8 h. p. at the drawbar. It will do the work on
your farm that six or eight horses could ordinarily do. It
pulls plows, drills, discs, seeders, mowers, spreaders, har
rows, or any farm implement of similar nature. It can be
used for puUlling graders for road work, hauling logs, pulling
stumpsr, or hauling heavily-loaaded wagons. It will pull two
l44ach plows in ordinary soil and three under favorable
PoI-)CS. FULLYUV QUIPPED. . 0 e. FACTORY.
CHEAPER THAN TWO MULESa.
Ctyd 9. Francisvllle,
Chas. We ydert, ................
(OOD CORN W ANTED
I am In the market for good
slip shucked Corn In the
ear, at any station on the
L.R.& N., or Y.& M.V.,
within this Parish.
F. S. PERCY, Plettenberg, La.
LOUISIANA DAIRYMEN
MEET AT NORWOOD
The Louisitana Dlrymen's Associa
tion convened Tuesday at Norwood
with seventy-lve present The pro.
gram was participated In by state
officalsa from the Laousiana State Uni
versity, the Wnited States Department
of Agriculture, of Brookhaven and
Starkville, Miss. Turner Wright spoke
on "Why the Pure-bred Sire"; George
Villeres president of Cloverlands Dalry
- Association, on "Why Louisiana arm
era Should Keep Dairy Cows"; I. 8.
West, president of the Dairy Associa
tion, on "How to (lGet Started In the
Dairy Business." Dr. A. Gayden made
the welcome on behalf of the town.
A general discussion was followed
by a short business session. Lumcheon
was served by the women of Norwood,
which Included a specially prepared
quail on toast menu, In the een ilng
an illustrated lecture was givetl by
J. P. LaMaster, U. S. Department of
Agriculture, Brookehaven, Miss., show
inl slides on sanitary barns, milk
houses, dairy rooms, also the dlfferent
strains best itted to dairy purposes.
ihv Hoolstein and Jersey stock.
The closing address was delivered
by Turner Wright, live stock extension
Ser i ce. Iouitstana State University, on
"('uo;ieration in Dairying."
Preaident West named two maper
taut comnitttIes, as follows: On Pure
bred  tres and Their Regletrttlon-
tWtllIam I"orbes, Ethel. chairman; C.
I, 1)ew'ey ('etntreville, MissI.; M. C.
iBridges. Norwood. On tegislation-
e (;G'orgee (:a-den. Gurley. chairman; W.
A Villere. New Orkns; William Trot.
ter, Jackson; '. ('. cKowen. Lindsay.
The following new members were
enroiled C( M Harrow, W. A. West,
I Bridge's a& ant, Walter Dawson. D. R.
hall. K"nneth McKay. Henry Ver
itneersch, J. L. Singletary. EiscoWelech.
J A McCartney. A. B. Young.
Prof. Staples tendered his help in
getting pure-bred dairy sires for any
fi armers, even if they did not have the
money to pay cash down.
President West suggested that Lou
isiana become the pioneer in the formsa
t!iot of dairy clubs among school chil
Sdrern, and urged that the Dairymen's
Association adopt the slogan, "A Dairy
SCow on Each Louisiana Pare."
The East P'eliciattn tick fight was
discussed. Mr. Bridges said it was
rumored that the fight was to be abaa
doned, which would be a calamity to
the entire state. President West deem.
e.d that the subject was eminently one
for the association to handle, and said
there would be no hesitation In follow
- ing the suggestion. Prof. Staples said
there were now 45 shippers of milk tI
fEast Feliciana and it was vital to the
milk Industry and farm prosperity
that the tick be banished this year.
W, I,. ~Carruth explained that the
police jury's term would eplire in
June., and It would carry on the work
until that limit but did not like to bind
its successors. The parish Is in debt,
but that is not the trouble. The Idea
seems to prevail that the work has
gone on now for over a year wlthout
absolute tick freedom, and that there
Is no use keeping on indefinitely. There
is also complaint that too much has
bcen paid for materials for the dipptaing
solution, There are 40 vats in tbhe
parlhn, which is sumfcenet number, and
In hise own ward the service had been
conscientious. There is not ive per
cent as many ticks as before dipptag
started
Mr W' A West. on behalf of his
firm. oftired to supply the dlpplnag ma
serial at actual cost. If the frms at
tther poitnts would enter upon the
Sante agrsIenient.
It was brought out In turther ques
tninin that the main trouble is that
the people do not dip all the cattle,
antd until they do complete erndlation
cannot be achieved. The people have
cotperated but have been eareless In
the cape of animals it was difcult to
corral at dippinlg time Tbhey recog
nised the vaslue of dlppinl, but not of
dipplng all the cattle regularly.
('. B Brown. another police juror,
sAid that the parish was only paylng
$10o s month towards the dlpping, and
that was not a drain. The report was
that therPe was too muh betlng paid for
the material. but that would be cor
rected if one man was plaIed in charge
of the purcehasing for the *tlre parish.
Fly optrpratlon of the peoplet the tick
could be gotten rid of in a season,
neglect to dip some of the animals also
betng the resl cans of the deblayt. He
knew that tick freedom would be one
of the best investments the parish
Scould make.
Kenneth McKay dId that he bed
KEEPING SWEET POTATOES.
tV y R Ir (t'HUMP.)
At the meeting of the town council
Tuesday night Mr (tuilbeau of the
Universtty fCxtents! ,a Department, stat
ed that the problem of keepitng sweet
potatoes had been solved by the dry°
kiln plan. He did not have time' to go
lnto details and explain this plan In
t full. Since this meeting I have heard
a iseveral enquiries regarding the plaln
ae and many have said that the idea
e would be of great service to this par.
ry Iah If It proved that it it s practicable
to cure sweet potatoes and keep them
until the price is right instead of hav
' Ing to dump them on the market re
'C gardlees of the price. I remenmhre'd
reading some article on the subject in
the rarm and Ranch which gave de
'tails of the ktilndrylng plan. Heret is
San; extract from an article by Mr. A I).
d, tPow ers
"About 20 years ago a farmer named
i'Marshall found himself the possessor
of a red sandy hit near Russellville,
Kentucky, and very little else. The
tobacco situation in Kentucky was
!k about like the cotton situation in Texas
nt now It was hard enough to raise, and
"' harder still to sell It for a profit
"vewry tobacco grower in that eoun
try is comlpelled to have a tobacco barn
s for the purpose of curlnl his tobacco
in before he can market it. The tobacco
is hung on sticks about four feet long
and the sticks are placed on frames
'so the air can circulate through the
tobacco and dry it out, or cure it. It
has to go through a sweat before it
can be piled or prised, or it will not
keep; It will heat and rot and be a loss.
"The price of tobacco got so low
'that a farmer could not raise It and
y' live, especially on poor sandy land like
e iMr. Marshall had. Some of the farm
era "fired" their tobacco to make it
Ssure faster, and get it to market soon
er, The firing consists of building a log i
fire on the dirt Roor of the barn and
keepgal It going day and night. The
I warm, dry air rises among the over-,
' hanging tobacco, takes up the mols
ture and passes on out through venti
lators in the roof.
"Mr. Marshall raised tobacco year
after year until it got so he couldn't
make another crop; then he' looked for
something else. Then he tried sweetI
7 potatoes, but they rotted on his hands
if he didn't sell them as fast as he dug
them. One season he had to pile a lot !
iof sweet potatoes in his tobaccon arn
on account of wet weather It looked
like they would rot even under shelter,
s the air was so damp. Then the thought
('aime to him, why not "ire" them?
That thought made him rich.
"He built a log Are on the floor of
the barn and dried out his potatoes.
a He found that the potatoes would not
i« only keep the usual tlme, but they
' would keep almost indefinitely, after
they had been fired. All that was
necessary was to keep then barn closed
aup to keep out the damp air. Mr. Mar
shall fired his potatoes every year
d fter that. He bilt a new barn arid
put a hot-ar turnace In the basement,
a and be kept the Ir goingI In the fur
nace day and night. He had sweet
potatoes for sale every month In the
year. tie shipped them In car loads
and got as high asm two dollars a bushel
He always had seed potatoes to plant
and to sell and he twbame known as
Sthe 'sweet potato king.'
"There are now IS or 20 of those big
Soutring plants in Mr. Marshall's neilh
r borbood and they have saved that
poor, sandy, bhillty country
Is been conductingl a dIpping vat on his
i- stocrk ftarm for four years, and it does
It not cost him $ for material a year.
te The parisah could buy even cheaper.
Mr. Wright the governmetntt special
a slt, said that the butchere of Baton
t KoIuge furnish very valuable evldence.
e. iince the cattle have been dipped, they
n dress eight per cent more meat, which
re ftact alone more than pays for the dip
in ilg. Beusides, the cattle owners have
to found out that dipped cattle are in
h better condition to go throuth the
tf inter. kat Felelcana farmers testi
fied likewiae,
ir, A, O. Perkins, another poliee juror to
ig respond. said that he did not requtre
id ny persuiasion. Dipping was the great.
ma "ot work the jury had done. All the
ar I attle had not been dipped, and a little
e, heartier co6peration would soon yield
e the complete result whiceh had been
h. interfered with. While the parish is
sk not tree It is almost so The only
ae elolent plan he saw was to make
o dlipplg comapulsory.
e Messrs. West and Bridges and Dr.,
ra ayden were named a eomltte to
k appear before the police jury, but the
latter will not seed much urging to
dkepup sad nytegtkea the Alght.
'A potato house with the hot-alr
furnace" would do Just as well as the
I one heated by stor(ves, and the elxpeltln
of fans would be untnec*essary. It Ian't
patented. either "
Mr J W Itheeon. President of
Meridlan 'ollege, in an article in the
samtne papter, rays
"The greatest problom has alwayu s
I btn to keep swet Ipotat.,oes throgll h
the winter This Is why they are niot
i more largely raised for market. Meri
dlian College of Meridlan. Miss, has
been making experiments for many
y ears in order to discover a plan by
which mweet potatoes can be kept with
reasonable certainty to be tmarketabhle
Swhen prices are hlgher. We believe
we have solved this problem. After
Sseveral yers testing the plant we have
' been able to keep about 90 to 9S per
cent of our sweet potatoes, including
cut and bruised ones, till used up or
1 until our new ones come to the next
year. Our plan briefly stated Is this:
"Itulld a tight house.', storm sheet It,
cover with builders' paper and weather
I board it, cell walls and overhead. leave
do or n south end, window in north
lend. We use two door shutters and
double windows in sanie opening, one
opening outside and one on the inside
This leaves a dead air space to keep
air warm. Make air shaft throush
cetlng and center of roof. extend it
above roof and open It south with
transom above the roof. Make slatted
shelving on each side of roomtn. begin
nisg about 24 inches from dirt floor,
shelves two feet apart made of one-bv
three or four) hunber placed ontt inch
apart so the air can circulate freely
through the shelves. We have an allle
in the center three feet wide, shelving
extending to the aslle Hlave slats back
of shelves so an air space will be be
i tween potatoes and wall, Build house
I2 feet wide and as long as wanted. It
takes one 1t) feet high and 3o feet long
to hold 2,000 bushels.
"Dig potatoes in as dry a time as
possible. Handle them carefully so as
not to bruise them. Put out ones to
themselves and small potatoes on bot
Som shelves as it takes them longer
toe dry on bottom. Place a large stove
in the center of the room. If the build
ing is long put In twi aloees or as
many as needed to heat "woil. Coall
stoves keep heat longer.
"Heat up the room to a hundred
degree temperature by shutting doors
and windows Open transom In ventl
lating shaft. A small vent hole four
niches by nine or twelve Inches under
the- bdoor for Intake air la n ecessary
while drying if the, building Is tight.
The stoves should be heated as soon
as the arust potatoes are put in so as to
begin drying at once before they rot.
The idea Is to kiln-dry the potatoes.
The moisture cultivates the rot germ.
It can't live in dry potatoes (let ex
cess of molature out of potatoes as
quickly as possible.
"It takes about 10 days of heat with
the thermometer registering about 10it
degrees to dry the potatoes. Fire until
bedtime and then begin early In morn.
ill; then open the windows and doors
•Aid keep potatoes as cool as possible
wlthout fretsinlg. Fortly degrlees will
be rilht or as nearly as posnlble., No
more heat will be needed all winter In
Htouthern climate. In treslng weather
shut all doors and windows to keep
iosttoe from freeing, but don't fall
no ventilate again when the weather
mlnoderates. We have never failed to
keep potatoes in a housle like this,
dried out in this way, and kept dry
anld cool without freealng
" * * * We have bougth potatoos
'hat were rottinl alid dried them out
nd lthey stopped rottllng, althoulgh we
dti not advise lone to take that rask.
1 few will ha lost of dry rot. b(t very
few It stops the wet mushy rot that
nlually detlroys the whole crop when
Sstlarts.
"Ttls hoise cartl be mlade cheaply of
ilmber. No lfoor is needed. but select
a: hlah. dry. wel.drained place A dry
!tiouse Is what I wantedl. It caitn be
'tmade of bricks or stone i Meridian
C'ollege has one of cemenlt blocksl
''They were nmade anid laid by the
stutdeltl. The Womai's ('ollege ha..
i+one of wood. whicth Is quite Intlepen
,dve, but it serves the pLIurpose The
('ollegell nriake and klePs frlom 1.500
Ito 2.000l buahels each year * * * "
At Wlinsboro. Texas a etiring plant
,of 18,000 blusahela capacity has been in
i)eration two years
It may be said that the farmers
; ould bhe forced to sell their potatoes
as sortn as gathered because of their
pressing need of money Thin could
tbe avoided if a lcuring plant of autlilcIent
> eapacity could be built near town that
would take care of the eatire crop of
ASYLUM AT JACKSON
UNDER INVESTIGATION
t The board of administrators of the
F.ast Io.nti.lana Hospital met In the
]ovrernvnor' otfee. Iaton Rouge, Monl
idiy aftrlrnoolI, to consider charges
nanainstl and rlticisms of the managel
moent of the institution made as the
h result of an Investigation made by a
rtrepr.entative of the TimelsPicaynna.
No full account of the meeting has
M boen given out, but it appears that no
Y hangi's will be made further than the
' carrying out of a number of reoom*
hi nltid:atlons, which have been made
' with a view of improving the condition
 of patients and the general improve
wr oent of the institution. Dr. Arthur
' lietdditug, representing the Rockefeller
r t'omntrlehion. came up to the Hospital,
" this week, for the purpose of looking
r it over, and giving expert opinion on
-t ontdltionsi
The only charge against the superº
I, Intetnlent, I)r Clearence Pierson.whllh
l'he been divulged as having come
Sbefore the board is the using of skin
SrI fotn a patient in grafting it on a child
i of I)r Pierson's sister't*lIaw. an lad.
P dent occurring several years ago. The
use of the Tilton bequest ln building
p a $i0,ooo residence for the superIntendH
h ,nt was also mentioned. Nothing fulr
It ,hr has transpired. Dr. Pierson says
that he can give the fullest explans.
I tionl of hir contduct. if the charges be
made public.
It has been an open secret In Jack
iotn for weeks that Mr. W. J. Leppert,
rt'prear ting the Times.Plecayune, has
Y been conducting an investlgation of
both the Insane hospitals belontging to
t 'he asae, by permission of the GOe.
kt trnor The Record has refrained from
any comment whatsoever upon the Is
e quiry not only out of courtesy to the
t TimsePicayuna, but also because we
I had no means of frstrhasnd informatlon
on the subject, and preferred to await
s the outcome of the lanvestigation.
a We have always had the highetb
D ýttinlon of Dr. Pierson's eSeUtivI
Sblift)y sad in fact have felt meeh
r admirtilon for results that have been
made public. On these we have'redled,
and art' therefore not prepared to may
a more without more Information. It
I has not been announced as yet whetl"
er the public will be Informed of the
I changes recommended by the Doard.
The letter are evidently not sweeping
in character and in so far are a vindl.
r .stton of Dr. Pierson and the general
r msaOUme.nt of the institution.
Y Dr. Pierson however will hardly rest
easy under the charges that have conme
a ll.t, and will make some eaplanatltba
of them. In justlee to himself.
Re ll1e a ball player. The thing
he Is always working for is home.
CHRISTMAS OPPERING
APPRECIATED.
1422 Josephine 0t,
New Orleans. La., Jan. 5, 151t.
My dear Mrs. Robinson:
The West Pllclaaa boxe rseahed
the city in time for my report. I weat
oult on Monday and unpacked them.
Iverythinl was eimply line; eurety It
'! the West PI~lellLM "beanert bo"
Sthin yeatr-30 nlilhtshrts alone, to my
r nothing of the dosena of jarL of pro
Sserves and other good things.
i The Superintendent was as delllght
Sbd as your Custodaln. and jlaols the
Sold soldliers and her in most sincero
thanks and apprseclation. The boxes
were beautiftlly packed and all was
in such perfect condition.
The dinner and Cbhristmas tre t
t th omeH1ens a suessle , Ias far Uas theb;
happinessal of the veterans weant, anad
pronounced by them. Still I cotuld not
qulte any the same. The weather on
'he 25th 'was awful, and the progrms
had to be shorrtened. The asconta lI
the tMiapers ere so Ineorrectl, I did not
wenliny Iapersr. to the Chrpters as I
tl .iuIy do. Rut I want to say thisl
tuchr, that the daughters throulghout
the state reponded most eneroauldy
'o the 'hristmas appeal, and the store
runtn was left well Alled with good
things for some time to come. The
" onmlaissary also, with doepns of suitts,
handkerrc'hief and nightlhlrt., beildes
other lhiecee of underwear,.
With thnnks again. and beat wishes
for a prosil'rous and happy year to
one and all. (Cordially yours,
I: b(MISSi IgE ALLAIN.
a , r;o'ish, if n'cu",saary it could serve
t) A a kind of warehouse, and It would
r bhe safe basinesa for banks or private
d Iparties to advance money to the farm
it e on the strnnth of warehouse re
It eipta for the potatoes -jusat as done
if tn the ease of eotton,
