INDEPENDENT
NON-PARTISAN
yw
JAN I 9 Itfivr
L I B$AfY Official Organ of the Building Trades Council of Cincinnati and Vicinity
Vol. III. i No. 39
CINCINNATI, OHIO, JANUARY 15, 1916
One Dollar a Year
The Pittsburgh Glass Company Is a
Combination in Restraint of Trade
A Little Book Called tlThe Schedule", Carried by All Drummers of
the Glass Trust That is Prima Facie Evidence of the Fact. The
Matter to Be Presented to Commissioner of Labor Wilson.
The Pittsburgh Glass Company is the Cause of the Painters Strike Now
On in This City. The Company Is Said to Be Powerless in the
Hands of Mr. Parker, Their Local Manager.
Prosecutor Campbell
In His Barroom Speech Against the Painters, Said "He
Would Not Allow Politics to Enter This Case". If
That Is True, How About the Member of the Re
publican Campaign Committee Who Demands That
They Be Tried At Once, and Thereby Railroaded
to the Penitentiary ?
-
t
MR. CAMPBELL, PLEASE ANSWER
Whenever a murder is committed by
a man when intoxicated, Collier's Week
ly claims that the distiller who manu
factured the booze is the one who
should be responsible for the murder.
Following this deduction, the Pitts
burgh Plate Glass Co., who created the
condition that lead to the murder of
Mr. Schall, at Christ Hospital, is more
responsible in the eyes of God for his
murder than the poor, drunken, half
witted Sullivan, who committed the
deed.
A great wrong had been thrust on
Sullivan; having been compelled to lose
his work just at the holidays, which he
felt keenly, but he did not know the
man who was the cause of his real trou
ble, and in his ignorance he beat up the
fellow who took his job; not knowing
that his suffering was caused by the
Pittsburgh Plate Glass Go., whose busi
ness is a trust, and is conducted in vio
lation of the laws of the country in
which Sullivan lived.
That a settlement of the lifferences
which existtbetyecn the paintcrjSjjiChv
"z1efsva1icrniii?bvosses cmfldbespccdily
arranged and peace restored inline-
dci 4-rtttr fj1n-nil-1 lin ttii ic tint 11 iiittlnti
..It-jT B..UU.U .,., ....U ., ...... """ ,. , . . -. . -. . .
the bound!; of possibility; and, tiiuloubt- i,ru"1 " """ "' "" """'.'" lv-"'
odly. would be arranged were the men ' tory, but the trust either put them out
hope of peace, since he absolutely re
fuses to'consult the interests of any one
but himself.
This ".schedule hook" of the l'lnte
Glass Trust is an interesting little
volume anil discloses facts which
the general public know little of.
lteference to this book show it to
lie a work of art ami its author is
deserving of a medal for ingenuity.
The contractor in Bath, Maine, can
ligure on a contract for glass work
in San Diego, Cal., just as readily
as the one who is located in the
latter city and this little hook shows
just why and how this can he done.
So it is of the Chicago contractor
who may figure on work in Jack
sonville, Kin., or vice versa; the
rule works both ways and there are
no exceptions.
The price of plate and window glass
is the same to all, and those stnali in
terests which have attempted m the
past to compete, have either been put
out of business, absorbed or taught a
Arf... ..1IMf lnnir 4-tAti r C rll ritit
tue teachings 01, mis .nine scucuiue
book. One by one they attempted to
do business in the open, taking a fair
and the bosses alone to be consulted.
This fact has been plainly emphasized
since the beginning of the trouble; both
sides being most anxious to have peace.
Why such a settlement has not been
arranged is the one great question, and
the answer is plain. One man and one
interest prevents a settlement, these be
ing the Pittsburgh Plate Glass Co., the
greatest trust in the building trades in
dustry, and its local manager, Mr. W.
E. Parker.
This great monopoly and the man
who conducts its business in the Cincin
nati district have steadily refused to
listen to reason or argument, and have
steadfastly insisted upon doing business
in absolute disregard of the rights of
others, thus bringing loss and suffer
ing to innocent property owners and
workmen.
The bosses are absolutely helpless in
this matter; as much so are the work
men. Plate glass can not be had with
out the consent of the trust, and they
are forced to follow the dictates of
Manager Parker or get out of business.
Mr. Parker knows neither man nor
law; in fact, he is a law unto himself,
thanks to the great concern which he
represents; and neither boss painter or
workman has any rights in his eyes.
Working absolutely without competi
tion, and being entirely devoid of con
science, this man feels that his position
is one of absolute mastery, and that he
need consult the interests of no one ex
cept himself and the combine which
backs him up. Bull-headed to the ex
treme, and knowing no law other than
that laid down in the "schedule book"
of the Pittsburgh Plate Glass Co., this
man Parker sits, as a king on his throne,
and makes terms and conditions under
which the boss and the workman must
do business or get off the job.
The power of this man appears to be
absolute, and it is generally understood
that when lie came to the Pittsburgh j
Plate Glass Co. from the American J
Window Glass Co., at the time of the
hitter's absorption by the former, it was ;
boasted by his intimate friends that he .
!,.,,! ilw. iriw.ds on the officials of the
,.r,.i.iit nioiiotiolv and that Ihcy dared
not fire him or interfere with his
of business or compelled them to fol
low the teachings of the schedule book
that it is not fair, even with those few
who attempt to compete under terms
of the schedule book. Bids on jobs for
glass work are made by the trust, and
plate glass is held strictly to the law of
the schedule; but such things as orna
mental glass or art glass and other inci
dentals are cut by the trust to an extent
which places them below the cost of pro
duction. This ornamental or art glass
constitute but a small part of the total,
and a slight loss on these scarcely affects
the profit on the plate glass, although
it serves to effectually shut out the in
dependent manufacturer of prisms or
art glass. Other small items are treated
in the same manner, and it has thus
been nossible for the Pittsburgh trust
to effectually stifle competition in al
most any line of the glass business.
This serious condition now confronts
the building interest of Cincinnati. Set
tlement, except through absolute sur
render by the men of the painters' and
glaziers' strike, appears almost impos
sible. Parker has shown that nothing
neqd..bc expected from him, and the I
'liistyry'ctlfc'TrirsTwIiiSh'lirepriteTnsT
is not such as to hold out any nope 01
relief from officials higher up. Parker
has refused every opportunity which
lias been afforded him to say the word
which will end the most bitter and dis
astrous industrial war ever waged in
by cutting prices in the territory where this city, although he has nan numerous
:s were located until opportunities wneie iws wwi wmu
such indenendent
loss, heavy and certain, was sure to fol
low, and the independent lellow, the one
who wanted to run his own business,
was brought to his knees,
Such arc the tactics adopted by Mr.
Parker for the conduct of the business
of the trust in Cincinnati territory, am
have been uttered without the slightest
loss of dignity or proht.
Local conditions are more serious
than the general public realizes, and in
justice to the business interests of the
eitv and of the nconle at large, as well
as those of organized labor, these mat-
he has no other rule or law other than ! tcrs will be placed before the Attorney
that of mitrht. Such a thing as a con
ference with this high and mighty .man
ager of the greatest trust of its kind
in the world is practically unheard of.
He may consult with higher officials of
the trust, but he regards all others as
being his legitimate prey, and does not
even know the men who are forced to
do business witii nun.
General of the United States and Com
missioner Wilson, in the hope that these
officials may be able to remedy matters
through the courts. Mr. Wilson has
shown himself entirely fair in his deal
ings with organized labor, and it is be
lieved he will be able to .find relief for
the present trouble. The little book
mentioned will be tendered to him. anil
Why did you not tell the grand
jury while they were in session
that subtle influences were being
used upon you instead of waiting
until their term had expired and
informing them of the fact at a
bar-room dinner?
If politics will not be allowed
to enter into the painters' trial,
please state why a prominent mem
ber of the Republican Campaign
Committee has demanded that
these men be tried immediately
and railroaded to the penitentiary? T
In your capacity as prosecutor X
have you ever advised the present
grand jury to pay no attention to ..
Mr. Charles Waltz, well-known X
strike-breaker who is hanging f
around the court house in an ef- X
fort to have others indicted in re- X
lation to this case? I
Do vou know that Waltz wants X
T these indictments, whether right or t
I wrong, to serve his own purpose? X
Mr. Campbell going to have the present
grand jury bring indictments against
these influences.
Attention has already been called to
the fact that the accused men, unfortu
nate and half starved outcasts, can have
little influence, and, therefore, it would
be decidedly interesting to know exactly
what Mr. Campbell had in mind when
he made his, now famous, reference to
the evil beings which were trying to
corrupt, through sinister influences, the
officers of the court, but which Mr.
Campbell so valiantly promised to resist.
While Mr. Campbell is so determined
to convict the accused men, it might be
well for him to devote a little of his
time to an investigation of the causes
leading up to this trouble. He might,
for instance, inquire into the methods of
the Pittsburgh Plate Glass Co. and its
local representatives. He would find
many things which might, in some de
gree explain the conditions which
brought about this killing, and which
stand as a constant menace to the peace
and welfare of the city.
' Among his other duties, Mr. Camp
1 bell is supposed to dig up crime if there
, is any in the city, and when he succeeds
1 in Getting evidence against a criminal
w ic his Hutv to have that criminal in-
Tn view of what has happened and , amp, nnd minished. Were Mr. Camp-
.whaUis .occurring, rom.ilay aoday.- the I nento -dig-into-thc-methods .of thcplatw
above questions arc pertinent, anu it ay- j,ass trust He might nnu someunm;
pears to the average citizen that the wi,jch would not only enable him to
prosecutor should define his position in p imict the officials of that concern lo
a more definite manner by letting the , cauJ. but lend valuable aid to the United
public know what he is doing towards j states district attorney in a possible
protecting the present grand jury from prosecution of the most oppressive of all
the evil influences wnicn ne cuiieu iu trusts.
the attention of the last jury after it
had ceased to exist.
The people would also like to know
if strike-breakers are to be included in
the influences which Mr. Campbell men
tioned, and if Republican Campaign
Committeemen, who make demands, are
also to be included in the list; also, is
Mr. Cnmnholl is reported to have said
he will devote his entire time during
his term of office to an effort to convict
the wretched men who now face the
charge of murder at Christ Hospital last
November, and he will doubtless be too
busy to investigate the cause ; he will see
onlv the effect.
iiii.-iii-r.-i tutu tuiii. ,...... .. ..--- m
There are evidences which show that, will, no doubt, make interesting read-
even with this high and mighty power,
the trust, through its local representa
tive, does not do business on the level;
AMERICAN BRIDGE CO.
nig; and there is a mass oi ouiei evi
dence which has been collected during
the past few months.
Will
liuilil the Intension of the Sus
pension Bridge.
The Covington and Cincinnati Bridge
Company, has secured all the property
necessary for the extension of the ap
proach of the Suspension H ridge to
Third street. The American Bridge
Company has been given the contract
for the steel necessary for the extension.
This will provide an approach to the
bridge above high-water mark.
IIHKK'K OXK OK ItKASONK!
Lack of Voters In Ohio's Boom Town
Might He Illumed Kor Kiots.
Edward L. Stephany
Writes the Building Trades Council As a Protest to
Their Action Taken a Few Weeks Ago. President
J. A. Cullen Ably Answers the Same Saying "Steph
any's Remorse Is Caused By Fear of Losing a Few
Dollars." Regular Meeting of the Council.
KKIiKltAL IWIOSTKiATlOX
Of
Strike Ordered (o Determine
Plotters Were to Illume,
ad-
Washington. The Department of Jus
tice has instructed a local agent in Ohio
to investigate the Voungstown strike to
determine whether or not foreign
agencies were at work which would
iring the case wiinm me province in
Columbus, O. What is the matter
with East Youngstown, is the question
being asked.
There are S.cim residents in the town,
which has grown from nothing to city
proportions in a few years. In 8,000
persons there should bo 2,l voters,
but those informed say there are only
.()() votes in the town when all are cast.
Last fall there were !:u.
Hast Voungstown, more than any
community in Ohio, is suffering from
an "undigested population," which has
no home, pays no taxes, and knows
nothing of the responsibility of citizen
ship. It has, however, a wholesome re
spect for the machine guns which law
sweep its streets at a wave of the hand
from a military official.
OI'l'OSH STATU COSSACKS.
.:.... .f .1... i..;l,i;,r , Trade Department, in convention
i int rimiii'ir uit'i'iinu in mi. niuniiih - - .
1 '"- vv .. . ...I . 1.1.W
nv-iilnc ( .Mint was Cil 0(1 lo orucr
sembled, do hereby agree that members
vening with President Cullen o f the .u, ding t r ues u t
M1UUIU nun - iiv v; "r" --
Thursday ev
in the chair.
Minutes of the previous meeting were
read and adopted.
A communication from Steam hitters ,,,.
Local :iS. named George Foegle as dele- "Whereas, the W. A. hes Manutac
gate to the Council, while ii. like com- turing Coinpan y n,aiiufa lure r ot Ua
.;,-.,( ,n trmn Lathers union .m. t .mi-mumo mmm ... -.-
tools bearing the metal trades label.
RESOLUTION' N'o. 11).
named Karnie Clift as delegate.
Moth
lirothers were duly elected and obligated.
A communication from W. J. Spencer,
littghly unionized its plant and is using
the label endorsed ny the .ictni i r.iu
Department of the American Federation
f Labor, as
ministration of the business in this ter-1 (jle ,-C(erai Government.
ritory, the reference being made to the
alleged trust agreement wn
two concerns when the American Win
dow Glass Company was an independ
ent. Be this true or otherwise, it is
certain the trust permits Parker to con
tinue his arbitrary rule, and the com
pany must bear the responsibility for
the existing conditions in the building
trades of Cincinnati, so long as ku
is left with a free hand, there is little the country.
The name of the agent is not made
known here, and the department is ex
tremely reticent about precisely what is
being done.
The investigation, however, is only a
part of a general policy which is being
pursued since it has become known that
fnn.iirn iniliiencc has had something to
do with labor troubles in other parts of
secretary of the Huildmg Trades Depart- , " - .
mem of the American Federation of La- i " hereas. 1 he said . A. Ues -Man
o dree ing that copies of the follow-I ufacturing Company is being subjected
m're solu ns. adopted at the San 1-ran- , to the wrath of the Manufacturers W
c&o convention, be set to each affili- , sociation. to. the esteiu ha it o u put
i i,..,i I has been seriously affected and rtdtani .
aled local.
RFSOLU
TON N'o.
1 therefore be it
"Ucsohed, by the Building Trades De-
..,..-..,..,.., -- -;. :;., f
To the Officers and Delegates of the partiiK-nt .. the uu ra t e ...-;
Newark, N. J. The executive board
of the state federation of labor has called
on all affiliated unions to renew their
fight against a state constabulary, fav
ored by New Jersey manufacturers. At
the last session of the legislature efforts
were made to import the "Pennsylvania
idea," but organized workers succeeded
in defeating the project. Big employers
are hopeful for better success at the
next legislature.
Building Trades Department of the
American Federation of Labor in
convention assembled :
"Whereas, The Metal Trades Depart
ment of the American Federation of La
bor has declared and decided that a uni
versal label would be adopted by the
Metal Trades Department, and
"Whereas, That in our opinion such
label should be encouraged and endors
ed by the Building Trades Department ;
therefore be it
"Resolved, That we, as the Building
notifv all local unions through their re
spective international organizations of
the above stated facts and request their
members to encourage manufacturers,
who operate under union conditions such
as the aforesaid W. A. Ives Manufactur
ing Company, by demanding the union
label."
The following communication was re
ceived from Edward L. Stephany, and
was referred to President Cullen for
rcplv, with instruction that both the let-
