i
Tho menace Has tho Largest Pald-ln-Advancc Circulation of Any Weekly Paper on the Globe Therey3 a Reason
iraKIF TTP'T No.w for lIlc Promiscd tcst by. which, when ap
u u uu u LmJ U . plied to a man, it may be seen whether the eov-
This Is Number 247
cising the powers of government, a man shall have no more fear from speaking and writing against
them, than from ipcaking tad writing for them? If his tnnver be yes, the covcrnmenthc declare in favor of, is
in undwporic one; if his answer be no, the jjovernment he declares in favor of, is a despotic one. Jerrmy Boithjm.
Jemary II,
S L ii . JJ "r
IfiEJ WAGE
iutuji iu j;ciiuiuiJiwii iu isui uic one tenor 01 incomer, rutnimto tnis question:
Will you, sir, or will you not, concur in putting matters on such a footing, in respect to the
liberty of the press, and the liberty of public discussion, that, at the hinds of the nrnn rrrr.
I
Kitchen tod N. Y. Schools
New York Citj U in a fair way
to see iU public schools made the
f tippet of a politician a Roman
atholic politician. Tb inaugura
tion of the Gary plan in th New
York City public schools ia J par to
the heart of Mayor MiUhrll and he
la determined to effect ita adoption.
Being a Catholic and knowing the
deeire of hie ehurrh to intUll the
superstitious belief of the Catholic
faith into the young mind in order
to better bring thetn into a conditiun
of (abjection to the will of the
church to train them in obedience
lo ehurrh and priest in all thine
Msror Mitchell tee in the ban
'I plan an opening through which hi
I church will spring with cunning
agility to grasp and ahape the chil
dren into the form most acceptable
to the despotic purpose of the pa-
A glance at the things moit de
sired oy Mitchell will reveal a dan
gerous program which, if adopted,
will jeopardize the welfare of the
public schools of his city and tend
to bring them into the shadow of
' destruction at the hands of Rome.
Note the changes Mitchell would
force on the city:
1. Election of William 0. WHI
rox to the presidency of tho Board
M x - . 1 II-
01 r,uucauou u euccveu Air,
Churchill.
Willcox Is reported to hare been
one of the heaviest contributors to
Mitchell's campaign fund and is a
personal friend of men close to
Mitchell in a political way.
2. Appointment of William A.
Wirt to supplant Wm. II. Maxwell
as city superintendent
3. Immediate adoption of the
Gary system in all the schools.
This alone will bring more
trouble and embarrassment to the
cause and means of education than
, any other one thing, as it will
bring greater expense, having al
, ready forced the closing of night
! schools for lack of funds in some
instances. It will also give the
Roman Catholic church the open
ing it has long desired to bring
its influence into close contact with
the public school.
4. Revision of the curriculum so
that it will include military in
struction. 6. Provision for a smaller Board
of Education.
Any , of the five numbers on
Mitchell's program for gaining con
trol if the New York City schools,
taken separately, is sufficient to
arouse a suspicion that the mayor
is hot actuated by a desire to con
serve the welfare of the people and
the schools.
IIE IS PROTECTING IIIS
OWN SELFlSn INTERESTS
AND PROMOTING THE SELF
ISH INTERESTS OF HIS
CHURCH.
He would pay a political debt
and guarantee his future success by
the removal of Churchill and the
election of Willcox in all probabil
ity. To enhance the probability of
success in that direction he has re-
ccntlv aPDointed eleven new mm.
pers to uie uoara ol Education who
will no doubt remember him in the
I way he would be remembered.
Sw Another fr'-nd is to be given the
' T CifTire nf iniwrinfenilant an.l
ther his purpose to control.
The immediate adoption of 'the
'Gary system his church desires and
as an obedient Catholic it is his
duty to gain that point, whether the
patrons of the school, other thsn
Catholics, wish it or not and in
dications and reports are that they
do not want it ,r .
The introduction of military in
struction into the schools is not
American and not necessary in any
sense. Our schools were not insti
y tuted for the purpose of training
;boys to fight and kill and destroy,
but to becomo thinking, honest,
capable and industrious citizens of
They are slaves who fear to speak
For the fallen ato' the weak
They arc slaves who wtll not choose
Hatred scoffing and abuse
Rather than in silence shirk
From the truth they needs must think
They are slaves who dare not be
In the right with two or three
James
a peaceful and prosperous nation.
The provision for a smaller school
board may bo an innocent desire on
tie part of Mitchell, but it smack
of a emitter purpose in that it will
give him a fewer number of mem
bers of the Hoard of Education and
a consequent lessening, or restrict
ing, of his field of effort in the mat
ter of control and so add to the
efficacy of his power to control.
MITCH EM A ROMAN
CATHOLIC. IS APPARENTLY
SEEKING TO GAIN ABSOLUTE
CONTROL OF THE PUBLIC
SCHOOLS OF NEW YORK
CITY. Such a situation can only
be regarded a extremely dangerou
to the welfare of the echuol.
Are the patriotic citiena of that
city willing that a Romish hand
houkl sway the Board of Educa
tion? Shin Bone or Rib?
Rev. Ignatius Sayegh, pastor of St.
Anthony Maxoait ehurrh, baa received
from Bom a relie of 8u Ann This
little parish ru formed with the eon
wot and aotistanc of Bt. Kev. Biahop
I'echaa about three year ago. Tho put or
ha sine endeavored to pay tho bill,
meet tho interest oa tho mortgage and
keep thing going. Tho parirh hat
flourished under hi direction. To en
courage him in hi tcalou work, th
Maromt vicar general in Koine procured
and ent to him this rrlie of St. Anne,
mother of the Hlcssed Virgin Mary, with
a certificate attesliog it authenticitv.
Kail River (Maw.) Kvtniny .V i.
8.
Of coiirso the "faithful will wor
ship frequentlyat the relic of St.
Anne when it is exposed for vener
ation and will no doubt leave odd
bits of loose change to assist Father
Svegh in "meeting bills" and "the
interest on the mortgage."
Shin bones are so handy, you
know, and the children of the Ro
man Catholic church are so well
schooled in superstitious practices
that they will "come across" with
the coin when a new "relic" is to
be venerated. And, no doubt, it is
genuine, too, for didn't tho vicar
general send along a certificate of
its authenticity? The parochial
schools keep the children trsined
down to this sort of bunc and the
"picking" are easy for the priests.
PAGANISM AND ROMANISM
ARE LARGELY SYNONYMOUS.
Good for Sunday
The A'ftrs Lradtr of Richmond,
Vs., date Jan. 1, 1913, says that
Card. 0. didn't endorse Sunday.
As either the old cardinal or the
correspondents of the Eastern pa
pers are doing a lot of wholesale
King, we give place to this last ad'
of the cardinal, only asking if Mr.
Sunday will still continue to make
a fool of himself by slobbering over
the Catholics, who, in turn, kick
and insult him for his silly praise
of their church.
Baltimore, Jan. 1. Cardinal Gibbon
last sight eiprewed aorrow that "the
Snrport of hi conversation with tho Rev.
t. George C Perk, paator of tho First
Methodist Episcopal church, regarding
tho Billy Sunday campaign was miun
dcrftood," and declared that ho had not
'authorized tho sending of letter to
Catholio pator asking prayer for tho
ueeees of tho coming campaign in Balti
more." Atked by Dr. 'Feck if ho objected to
the prayers of tho Catholic clergy being
ought for tho ancce of the Sunday
campaign, the cardinal replied tnat M
had no objection. It was too inference
drawn irom Dr. Pork 'a public statement
that permission had been given to send
letter to Catholic clergy to which tho
cardinal said ho objected.
The Catholie church, be said, could not
in any way recognise Mr. Sunday aa a
divinely commanded teacher of revela
tion. Some preacher who desire to be noted
aa tender-hearted thow that they aro soft
headed by priingRome.
Rome will rarble history, misconstrue
(tatementa and invent torie to gain her
end.
Cirilisation ia dependent upon develop
ment, but bo development ia possible un
der Romanism.
Russell Lowell.
IT DEPENDS ON WHOSE OX IS GORED
Catholics Can Damn Protestantism and Protestants Must Take Their Med
icine, But There Must Be Ho Criticism of That Bigoted, Intolerant-One-sided
Anti-Protestant Organization Known as the Roman
Catholic Church
Tho Tom Watson Case Ends In Mistrial
J" Y""tm r 7r kea ragasl iB intuiting everything nrar an) dr to Catholic.
r- h".. frl.U,71U'fc Th tio Uforo J..g. Hpeer, who di-iuaJUJeO. Tho -ond
tlMtZ! AUfU,U' 0XLh U 1 iT to w aur
Of eourno Watann and hi hmx-hmen ar triumphant ovw tho "aloriooa virtorr Ou of iK .i.i. .t n. .. .i
:::rt -
Thero omi to U a curion 'Immunity or 'anwrittea law' Invoked ia Mnm of pooplo who aUack Uo Calholio
church or .. ItjM reprwrntaUTom," My tho ln.fow fUol. "Wit a, for InaUnro tho TUrlou. i tt7
ranta ainro ho ha twromo known as aa fwmr of Catholic laatitutioaa in W.i,n uLJl llVi wP"ir"T V-' ,
X .'ff'red impnaonmt for tho burn.ng of rhurrh or tho saobWV wrSts
Tr K0'? fjy OBe ,nnnmot or a flne of a dollar for tho tarring a. J fuhring tWhEfil
Mamo m 1854 , any eonviot.o. rea.h.,1 ia the inadiary lire at Mt, lii lB tWlcrtowTt No? i. , . to
Vrr1 r0bl'e ,P'.n'7 T;M"Cr rr-rtkally d.fle. tho rrprJnTaU of tto u , 2S
them, atooa ha preecdinU for hi contempt of court and unclenn bravido." puniaa
T atAanx stow
TIE article headed "The Tom
Watson Case Ends in Mis
trial," reproduced herewith,
and used as a text for the
m
remarks to follow, was taken from
the December iwuc of tho "Bulletin
of American Federation of Catholic
Societies."
The American Federation of
Catholic Societies is an unscrupu
lous aggregation of black-mailers
and boycotters, organized for tho
purpose of boycotting and perse
cuting Protestants, and the "bulle
tin" is their oOicial organ.
In this orgsn they print from
month to month lists of Protestant
institutions they have put on the
blink by means of the bovcott:
thresten and blackmail others which
are not behaving themselves just to
the liking of the pcttieoated
grafters who do the pope's dirty
work in the United States; air the
exploits of the N'its of Mob and
Murder; ahuse The Mrvack and
other patriotic papers and people
and otherwise make asses of them
selves in general.
The article in question shows
conclusively that the editor of the
"Bulletin" is as mad as a wet hen be
cause the inquisitors at Augusta,
Ga., let Tom Watson slip through
their fingers without a penitentiary
sentence.
He lets his temper get so far
away from him that he uses epithets
and invective that Watson never
dared to use against Roman Cath
olics, then has the intestines to call
one of the greatest men the South
ever produced an "arch-bigot."
Consistency thou art a diamond !
The "Bulletin" man (or bullet
head) say the articles Tom Watson
wrote were so "vile that the grand
jury which indicted him branded
them as so obscene, lewd, lascivious
and filthy as to be improper to
spread upon the records of tho
court." -
However, the bullet headed ed
itor of the "Bulletin" failed to
state that the very stuff for which
Watson was indicted, and which
was too filthy for the spotless (God
save the mark) records of the court,
was taken from the Roman Cath
olic textbook for priests, and were
questions which Roman Catholic
priests are taught to ask women and
maidens in the secret confines of
the Catholic confessional box.
Why didn't this toe kissing, relic
Why send for a doctor when holy water
is a preservation from aukneea.
The would be social reformer can feel
flattered. There i said to be a greater
power on earth than their: that of th
Romish church which claim ther ia bo
power in the world that can push oa the
right line of social reform except the
Catholic church. A Jesuit priest says
there ar a good many Catholic who
don t seem to recognise a social question
at all and as he u acquainted with his
dupes, he must know what he ia talking
about. lie expects to win the world over
to Catholicism, which it the on he
can sanction. In thoe good old Catholic
countries the prelates pushed social re
form to the extent that nearly three
foorth of the people remained illiterate
beggar of the lowest description. All
that any on ever see the hierarchy
doing, is standing on ita hind leg at
time, braying loudly and freqwentlv, and
doing KOTUIXOI Wknt ia the taureh
doing for progress? What has it ever
done! What win it ever dot
- Let That Be Thoroughly Understood
worshipping servant of the Italian
Fopc tell hi readers that the stuff
that was too filthy for the snow
white records of the Federal court
uat tht very uf that kti Italian
mast$r on tht Tiber ttachr kit
nef. to tprv into the ears of
vites, tmert, daughter and street
hearts of Roman Catholic men?
Simply locause he was too cow
ardly to do it; because he was
ashamed of it; because he is just
like tho whole Roman Catholic lav-
out-IIE IS BIASED, BIGOTED,
V i Al . UMIEASONARLK
AND UNJUST Til ATS WHY!
That "curious immunity" and
"unwritten law" that this bullet
head spenka about in the last para
graph of his editorial gyration is
amusing m the extreme.
Every American citizen with suf
ficient intelligence to put his shoes
on with the heels behind knows that
it is next to impossible to convict
a Roman Catholic in any court for
any crime yet this scribbler for
the Pujw's "Bulletin" "passes tho
buck" and would have his readers
believe that Protestants can mur
der Catholics in cold blood or do
most anything else and get by with
it
The whole screed is a whine from
start to finish, the whine depending
altogether and in every case on
whose ox is gored. If it's the
Protestant ox, well and good, mum'a
the word, but if ifa the sacred bull
of the papacy, the one doing the
goring is an "arch-bigot" and
should go to the torture chamber
to be dealt with as were the Prot
estants in the days of Torquemada,
the arch-fiend of Romish hcllish
ness. As for "curious immunity" and
"unwritten law" it would seem that
the Romish aggregation has the
whole world bucked off the boards.
As for the church that was
burned or the priest that was tarred
and feathered in 1851 I might atate
that the distance makes the incident
too hazy for yours truly to get it,
as that was before I or even my
daddy kas born but I do happen
to know something about the antics
of the yellow flag followers since
they set out on their latest crusade
to make America Catholic and dec
orate the sod of my old Southland
with the rich, red blood of Protes
tant martyrs.
The crimes of priests, proven
and published to the world within
Topics In Tabloid
BT C VOX IIDIX
"It is explained that the CommlUee
en Religious Prejudice, appointed by the
Knight of Columbus, spent- only $0,000
of th $50,000 vote it Thia ia a miti
gating circumstance." The Ceiaoite
Cttwca ia apologixiig, but for whatt
W know the notorious "prejudice
committee" did sot get anywhere in it
work, but look at the money it didn't
epead. That 44,000 atill so hand can
be nsed ia prosecutions against speaker
and editors. Is that the ideal
The Cefholu; Citiicn, speaking of re
port of food shortage la Paris, London
and other cities, say "Thing are not a
bad aa they aeeat, if w discount thee
reports by th political interest which
set them afloat' Does Cardinal Gib
bon wish o to oa th same process of
reastairg whea be aad hi fellow Oatb-
the past five years, would fill several
issues of The Men-ace. and cannot
bo recited hero, but with one or two
rare exceptions they' have gone
eott free, and their crimes con
sisted of everything on the calendar
from cold blooded murder down to
petit larceny, including the viola
tion of Lttle girls under the age of
sixteen years. The Roman Catholic
thugs that assaulted Crowlev, Spur
geon, Boles. Clark. Tarker, Barnett,
Kennedy, Tharp, Jordan and dozen
of other Protestant preachers and
platform speakers within the last
four yes rs are all at large.
The servants of the pope who
burned the Protestant church in
learborn, Mich., because th pastor,
J. A. Cottam, delivered a lecture on
the life of Martin Luther, arc en
joying freedom under an "unwrit
ten law."
The survivors of tho Knight of
Columbus band of desperadoes who
murdered William Black at Mar
shall, Texas, are eujoving an "im
munity" peculiar to Catholic thugs
and unknown to non-Catholic vio
lators of the law.
So, really, the "immunity" and
the "unwritten law" is not all on
one side the anti-Protestants seem
to enjoy their share of it judging
from the incidents cited, and these
are only a few of thousands of like
cases.
The world knows these facts and
accepts them complacently. The
daily press chronicles briefly a few
of the most open and dastardly
crimes of priests and a submerged
smattering of the treason and
treachery of the Roman Hierarchy,
but believing that this alien power
is a permanent fixture that the
disease is incurable with a buret
of enthusiasm and optimism that
discounts that of the man who
thanked God for the itch because ol
the luxury of scratching, proclaims
it the greatest organization since the
Roman Empire and its. presence in
this country an inestimable boon
and a transcendent blessing.
The American people, in the
main, are soft-soaped and bulldozed
into insensibility by tho Jesuitical
tricksters who do such odd jobs for
the pope as running the "Bulletin"
and hundreds of other Romish rags
not a whit better.
That's why it is necessary occa
sionally to quote froralhem in order
to shock the sleepy heads out of
their stupor.
lie UU n of the " horrible condition
in Mexico t"
'Many a Catholi paper, rtruggling
to make both end meet, ha died of a
poor circulation," v the Cttkolic
Lttiun. Aggravated, no doubt, by a
lack of that oul sat if ring and mind
enriching matter so essential to a health
circulation. avast the Catholia
Steed i more good editor.
prc
According to the JTettem Catholic,
December 31, 1815, "In the laited
SUte there were about 13.000,000 per
son living In poverty." The Catholic
church claim about that number of
embers ia the Caited State, doesat
it!
e
Those who qnote and circulate extract
from Liguori'a Theology are bigot end
criminals antes they happen to be
priests and "quote" IJguori in th con
fewional. , Then they are represent tires
f Christ. Pine, last ttt .
The rcrfer Cetholie, December 17,1
191S, in the "Quewtioa Boa," answer!
the quewios I "May m couple live to
gether without bnag married J the
prteetf by ss.risg "Hy Uisf w(eth
snthoet bwsf married by the priest a
couple would he Itrisg in a stale of sin
called concubinage." D vow "get"
the Catholic attuude toward the marriage
relatioat They dodge the queetiea by
nying the church rerofauee Protestant
tarnage aa valid.- Protestant are
keretks, too.
s
The Knights of CVtumbu of Cincinnati
presented ml Joseph' Orphanage la that
city with lUiO, th proceeds from the
disposal of aa automobile at the orphan'
pirnic. M rjlffi foleolw, IV. 17. That
word "dtfjKMial" mean, ws presume,
that the auUimobile was raffled off
gambled fur by the law abiding (f)
I nlholK- of Cincinnati. Anything to gi-t
the money, you know, from eurhre to
fortune wheels, raffles to roulette. A
little thing like a slate law doee not keep
Kome frmn srparnting gu)Lit4e perwu
f rum Ueir com at a gam of chant.
According to The Tablet, December
31, 23.503 Irifh lanlel in this country
during th past year bringing with thorn
S1.AS1,3b7, or aa average of If than
72 each. How many of the twenty
three thousand had as much a that when
they landed t And how much of it did
they "donate" to th first priest en
countered t
Th ff filer Vatknhe tells that
"Catbolie philosophy teaches that the
State is of Divine origin;" that "Edu
cation not being a natural function of
the Hate, it right to control and sup
port education is limited and only ac
cessory to th proper eercie of the
normal functions of th State." Therein
is the Roman Catholic belief that the
Roman Catholic church alone has author
ity and right to teach fully eipressod
without unaorcMary and beclouding ver
biage, t'ndcr that teaching and with
that belief the Knmiph effort to dis
credit the public 'hol nd the arrogant
defiance of laws affecting education and
child-welfare i strictly in accord with
Catholic, religion, and the church can
COMMAND OBKD1EXCE. Hence the
insisteot demand that Catholic schools be
recognised as the only legitimate and
proper fount of knowledge. The H'rrfrrs
Cat AIw forget that the Htato I th peo
ple and that the people are supreme in
the matter of legislation and administra
tion. Kelly and Carranza
'The -Tumulty tangle "daily as
sumes more perplexing proportions
ami each ner development in the
Mexican situation rccali more ful
ly the purpose of Rome to mislead
the public and misconstrue policies,
in a desperate attempt to restore
papal supremacy nnd resume eon
triil of a buffeted and torn nation.
Mgr. Kolly, who has been vin
dictive in his utterances concerning
Tumulty nnd the administration
since the publication of Tumulty's
letter to Dr. MctJuire which ap
parently refuted all that tho Rom
ish press has said concerning Car
ranza, Wilson and conditions in
Mexico, is reported by tho Toledo
Timts. December 15, as having
denied that tho Catholic church is
antagonistic to Carranza or ever
had engaged in politics.
Then why so much expression of
hatred toward Carranza and those
who are determined to give him a
chance to restore peace and tran
quility in his country, under the
morsl support of the American na
tions? If the Catholic church is not in
politics why does Cardinal Gib
bons thresten Wilson with the solid
opposition of 17,000,000 Catholics,
should he seek re-election?
We are still more firmly con
vinced that tho Mexico muddle is
largely the result of Romish intrigue
intended to confuse the public un
til Rome can get things in shape to
resume control of affair. KELLY
& CO. NEED WATCHING.
You can't measure the depth of a pa
pivt' piety by the height of hi church
teeple.
An English fanner wss once viniting
in Prance, nnd in describing the Bene
dictine Abbey of rt. Germain with ita
pillar of African marble, etr., saiJ: "It
is th rk-kest abbey in Trance. Th
abbot has over 70,0tio a year. I lost my
patience at such revenue being thus lie
stowed, inconsistent with the spirit of the
times. What a noble farm would the
fourth of this income establish I What
turnip, what cabbage, what potatoea,
what clover, what sheep, what wooll Are
not these things better than a fat eccle
iastiet" But the boobs find the blarney
of the prelstea so fetching, they can't
see into it aa this English farmer did.
Paganism and Catholicism
Almost everything that is distinctive in the Bonum Catholio
form of Christianity it to bo found in Buddhism: images, pictures,
lights, altars, incense, vestments, muses, beads, wayside shrines,
monasteries, nunneries, celibacy, fastings, vigils, retreats, pilgrim
tfcs, mendicant vows, shorn heads, orders, habits, uniforms, nuns,
convents, purgatory, saintly and priestly intercession, indulgences,
works of supererogation, pope, archbishops, abbots, abbesses,
monks, neophytes, relics and relic. worship, etc London Christian.
The Richmond Missions
The Catholio church has beta,
having a mission at Richmond, VaV
conducted by the Paulitt Fathers.
As a rule wt pay but Little atten
tion to these misjiona or Catholio
revival services, or to what ia sail
and done ia them, aa the CatboLos
have the same right to regular and
extra service as other sects, and
they have an unJoubted right to say
what they please in these services.
Other people have an equal right
to criticise these utterance in any
manner they choose. Right here is
focused one of tho chief conten
lions between Catholics and non
Catholic. Catholics claim the right
to aay what they please aboat Prvt
estanta and Protestantism, and at
tho same time deny anr right of
criticim of anything said or dont
by fei priest or leaders, declar
ing all suth criticisms to be attacks
on their religion.
At the risk of being accused of
"fighting religion" we note the dec
laration of the Paulista at Rich
mond, that "it makes no difference)
whether the heal of the church is
sn Italian, a Frenchman, an Eng
lishman, a winf, a sinner, or a
scholar. When he speaks Ex
Cathedra to the univeri.ii church on
a matter pertaining to doctrine or
morals tho millions of his spiritual
advisers give implicit obedience to
his doctrine."
These mission preachers admitted
that unworthy men have occupied
the papal chair in the past If it
makes no difference whether the
I'opn is a saint, or sinner, it can
make no great difference whether '
the bUnop or priest be a saint or a
sinner.
In plain words tho position !
that it makes no difference what tht
character of the prelate or priest,
is, the church is expected to be
cuided by him.
As they expect to mako America
a Catholic country, all idea of per
sonal . character among our iuesrrvsa
spiritual ovorurd i to thrown
to tho winds. Straight or crooked,
ober or drunk, pure in thought anl
action or as corrupt as tho fiends
make men. Everything goes.
Mind this is only a summing tip
of declarations and apologies con
stantly made by Catholic orators and
writers.
Is it any wonder TriE Mexacti
protests against the political and
economical control of tho country
tiv men who hold that it makes no
difference whether their leaders are .
saints, sinners, angels, fiends, or
devils?
Tho good people of Richmond,
however, aro to be congratulated oa
having such a fearless and out
spoken champion as the editor of the
Richmond irninian. You sea no
soft-soaping of the Romanists in
that paper. He stands for Amer
ica and the flag, and says so.
Black and White
Q. What is the meaning of the
phraxe, the Mark I'opcf
A. It i an insulting re fore nee to the
Superior General of the Society of Jesus,
and reMs on the supposition that he ia
the real head of the church giving order
or "counsel" to the Roman Pontiff
whose role of white load to hi being
styled the White Pop.-Th Tablet, Dec.
31, 1015. '
In other words, they don't like to
be told that tho Jesuits run tho
Catholic church; that the black
nope is the real thing and that
Retiny, the white pope, and the col
lege "of cardinals are only figure
heads who do the bidding of tho
Jesuit General. Poor things, wa
pity them. Why don't they mako a
clean breast of it and say MTi
true, 'tis a iitr, 'tis a pity 'tis true"
snd let that end it?
The minutest mathematical calculation
must be required so a not to exceed
the amount of th indulgence granted
by the pope to the faithful for the re
peating of certain cabaliati words. If
the word are repeated once, there ia an.
indulgence granted for 300 day. But
th danger lie in this, that If the word
are repented a few down time beyond
the Btimlter of day one lives, before be
roaches purgatory, the entire indulgence
becomes null and void. Catholiebra doc
present mm mental exercise, suck as
It i I
