THE BARRE DAI LY TIMES
VOL. XIX-NO. 258.
IJA11HK, VEJtMOXT, SATUKDAV. JAXUAHV 15, 1910.
PHICE, ONE CEXT.
U:S. SUBMARINE
WAS BLOWN UP
AND 20 DEAD
B.-6 Was in the Navy Yard in Brooklyn
When Internal Explosion Wrecked
the Vessel To-day Cause of Explosion
Not Yet Known
FIVE ATTACKS
ALL REPULSED
Austria Claims to Have Been
Successful in Resist
ing Russians
LATTERS' OFFENSIVE
AGAIN RESUMED
SEVERAL WERE INJURED
SAYS THE REPORT
First Report From the Navy Yard to
the Police in New York Said That
the Under Sea Fighter Was BJown
Apart
New York, Jan. 15. The United States submarine B-6 was
blown up and sunk in the Brooklyn navy yard to-day. A report
from the yard to police headquarters s,aid that 20 men were killed
ind a number were injured. The submarine was blown apart, it
was said at the navy yard, by an internal explosion, the cause of
which is as yet unknown.
Bessarabia Is Again
Scene of Sharp
Fighting
the
MANY PAYMENTS
BY VON PAPEN
WERE REVEALED
Money Paid to Persons Charged with
Responsibility for Blowing Up of
Munitions Works and Bridges.
London, Jan. 15. Copies of corres-
and among other things contains the
following:
"If you should leave New York be
fore my return we must try to come
to some agreement about soma pending
questions by writing " " ion will
receive them in Germany a long-intended
report of expenses paid through my ac
count on your behalf. I should bo very
thankful to you if yon would then sup
port the question of monetary advance,
which you know of, although I know
ponueuce seized lroin tapt. rrnnz von that x wag mistaken in my opinion
Papcn, recalled German military attache that I acted as your representative and
at Washington, when ho reached Fal- cording to your wishes."
6 ' I The correspondence seized from Cap-
mouth on his way to Germany, havetain Von Papn and t(lrned over to the
be,en turned over to the -American em-j American embassy consisted of , copies
bassy for transmission to the state tie- i of letters and a summary of bankbooks
.1 .... . i. T . . . XYrni.:4nH ...:n v.
tmrtn.ent. Thev al.ow that fWain Von "
' . r ; supplied with photographic copies. '
sons charged with the responsibility for
blowing up munitions works and bridges
in the United States.
Captain Von Papen's check stubs, bank
books and letters from his bank, the
Riggs National bank of Washington,
show about 500 items, many of which
had to do with routine expenditures.
Others, however, revealed payments to
various persons who have figured prom
i.,....!., in i. -
agents in America, and to at least one ' Ua(sh'nKto"' : V tlM;
spy who committed suicide in a cell .Cmm wn Bernstorff the German am
:.,.. v..iui. .. bassador, was shown London dispatches
in an f.iiglisn prison. L ... . .. , . 1 . .
, fi... it i ri i telling of the correspondence and accounts
I mo pnrrv Mhnu'M rnnf I Dnrnin V nn ' . . .
, . . , taken from Captain Von'Papen, the for-
The eastern field of war again assumes
prominence with the resumption of the
offensive by the Russians in Bessarabia.
There had been cessation of activity in
that part of the fighting front for sev
eral days. It is claimed by the Austrian
war office that since the inauguration of
winter operations in eastern Ualicia and
Bessarabia more than 0,000 Russians, in-
chiding 30 officers, have been taken pris
oner. The Russians also claim numerous
captures and notable gains of ground
north of Czernowitz.
The Austrians. who at present are the
most actively eniraeed of any the bellig
erents, are pressing a campaign against
Montenegro and announce tuniicr ad
vances into the interior of the little
kingdom, following up their successes on
the southwestern frontier, which includ
ed the storming of Mount Lovcen and
the capture of Cettinje. The Montene
grins in their defeat are suffering losses
of men and guns, according to lenna
Germany, replying to Great Hntain in
the Baralong rase, reiterates the charge
against the auxiliary cruiser's officers,
accused in the affidavits of Americana on
the steamer Nicosan of having refused
quarter to the, members of the subma
rine crew. The German government de
clares as unacceptable the British offer
tn submit the case to a tribunal of
American naval officers if Germany
would submit three specified cases of al
leged outrages by Germans on the seas
to the same court. Germany claims
that in none of the cases mentioned
were German officers trying to destroy
helpless persons.
In view of the British declination to
bring the accused officers of the llara
long to trial, Germany, an official note
announces, will adopt measures ot re
prisal corresponding with the provoca
tion.
LAUNDHY AND STABLE
IN BOSTON BURNED
la Formtr Wert Many Women and Gills
Wbo Wert Driven Out Into Zero
Temperature In Responding to
Another Alarm a Fireman
Wat Injured
Boston, dan. 13 Girls and women who
were employes of the Green Meant
Laundry in the Jamaica Plain district
were driven out into aero temperature
to-day by a fire which destroyed tha
plant and burned an adjoining livery
stable.
On the way to another fire, fireman
John I. Donahue was Injured when
hose wagon skidded on the icy street in
Dorchester district and pinned hi in nn-
lerneath it. lie sustained a broken leg
and other injuries.
CONFERRED WITH MINISTERS.
Central Labor Union Committee Learned
Their Attitude.
A special committee elected by the
Central Labor union at it recent month
ly meeting met In conference last even
ing with a number of Barre clergymen,
wlm assembled at the office of Secretary
r. . Suitor of the Quarrv Workers In
ternational union in reNiMiuae to an imi
tation extended by the labor men. It is
said that the conference was one of the
results of the reeent Central Labor union
session in which the attitude of minis
ters in Barre was criticized. The central
labor organization was represented
. ... f . . I . C II'
ottt-1 nrtAmnnmnn laiiiunir owicr. iv Jiarry J'mc, r.
OllXU I IXKJICjOICjU Suitor. John McDonald. Daniel Bizzi and
MOST VIGOROUSLY c'ru' R- ,,"n- Am"" the i"Wn"n
- 1 V UOUI present were: Rev. Father P. M. McKen-
na of St. Monica's church. Rev. K, F.
Newell of the Iledding Methodist church,
Kev. W. J. M. He.it tie of the Church of
Detention Was Due to Her tl,e ''""J shepherd, nev. j. u. Reason of
the I mversaliHt church, Jlev, r.. irons
AGAIN STOPPED
AT THE DOCK
Mrs. Emmeline Pankhurst,
British Suffrage Leader,
Was Detained
PUT SHOTGUN
TO HIS HEAD
Ambrosio Frontini of Mont-
pclier Killed Himself
Instantly
TIPPED OVER LAMP.
His I
Saxtons River Man Buri.1 and
House Wiped Out.
Saxtons River, Jan. 13. The two-ten-ment
house of John Minard on Gove
street, was destroyed by fire which start
ed about 8 o'clock last night, when Mr.
Term in British
Prison
land of the First Prosbvteriun church
and Rev. J. W. Rnrnett of the Congre
I gational church
In a general wav the labor situation
was thoroughly discussed, it was stated
I to-day, the conference being confined lor
New York, Jan. 15. Mrs. Emmeline the inot part to the larger phases of
Pankhurst. the British tuffrage leader, u moms in in Hnrre. According to reports
... ki.i . i.- i-m. ii..i i K'"" u morning, m
ministers
.. ,i :i t. f.
Minard tipped over a lamp. He was tion station to-day when .he arrived on 7Z'Z 1 "..T .
tim ... . . . . . : .v ....... ...
IttiA irainnhm V. t I'.,, I '!,. r.Hiim I . n ........ M .. ........... 1 ,-.
... , , I BW.WIIUJHIII ..... J auit A I'D .DBIIIIIi: RUT RlllbUllR ll&lil.lll IW 1.1,
house of Dr. . IX Howen. I , li, . i i.i i .1.:.
uinoritiei saia Mrs. rankhurst was tie-1 "' urji""eu ibdit vmn m.
persona. ...onging, and (h..r mble, ained becausa she had served sentence r & aV
u'lii-i olsn Iivnil in fit linitit l..f Sinn in I in lls.;v,uk t:!.- ..... .::t.-ll T . '
a. tfaivil " I n"D iu i r inn 1 11 nun ii iiruum vv mur: ri
money, valuable papers, hit bank book .utaine.l ul..n .1,. .niv.A !,,. nnr. r. ..1..1. ; t.J .!.;,.. !......
and uii me niiverwarc, linen ana niHiiy 1 , . , . , ,
of the fixture he used during tlu uin- th,n two ' b,,t WM rc
m.T in a restaurant. I leased and allowed to enter the country.
The occupants of the house were driven I Mrs. Pankhurst . and her secretary.
out with the thermometer registering 10 jo,n Wickham, were walking down the
degrees below rero. , L.nffnl.nlr h.n m..., infn,,,,! l,r
she would have to go to Ellis island,
I employers and employe. Rev. Mr. Crots
land ia quoted as saying that his sym
pathies are always with the laboring
man.
BOYS FULL OWNERSHIP.
"I DON'T BELIEVE IT,"
SAID BERNSTORFF
When Told of Seizure of Incriminating
Papers on Von Papen, but Can't Ex
plain How Great Britain Should
Have Information as Claimed.
Papen gava $700 to Werner Horn, who
was arrested in connection with the
blowing up of a Canadian Pacific rail
road bridge at St. Croix, Me. The day
before this check was issued the Ger
man embassy paid $2,000 into Captain
Von Papen's account.
.several large payments were made to
mer German military attache here, his
comment was:
"I don't believe it."
Further than that, the ambassador de
clined to be quoted for publication. He
did make it plain, however, that he
doubted that any document of an incrim
inating nature had been taken from V011
Berlin, bv wireless, Jan. 15. The Ku
sian offensive has been renewed on the
Be.ssarabian front and five important
attacks have been repulsed by Auxtro'
Hungarian troops, according to an Alia
trian official statement, duted yester
day and received here to-day.
CHARGE ITALIANS
WITH ATROCITIES
va,.u.m on 1 apen uy int von werns- p although he advanced no theory
torff ambassador at Washington. Most of ow the correspondellce and accounts
of these were for salaries or bonuses. A . described in the J-ondon despatches had
"'7'" , F".'.'"" been connected with him.
niHue ny u.e ainoassaaor 10 uie military The impreggion whitll wgl! conveyf(l to
attache for "war intelligence office." One ()gtionprg b officiai9 in German diplo
of the payments on this account, madejmatic eircles was that they thought it
in October of 1914, was for $2,300. )OS8ible that Cantian Von Panen had
possible that Laptian Von rapt
Four Important Letters. been connected with the published docu-
Four impt.rtant letters found in Cap- " f'r rf";
J .... T if- . 1 1 11 H II I. MRU Llldli H. VIHI, IIHHIU1IIV L II 11 1
tain on 1 apen s enects are considered , . , . , .
. t f . . von Papen, knowing that his ship would
the most interesting part of the corres- . . , 1 . . ... ,r . .
, 4 . . 41 1 14, 'be taken into a British port to be
enilwssv I searchfd, would have carried any corre-
1 hm I ' i u t ispondenee of such a nature, if he pos-
The first is a letter from R. Von Mey If, . T. . t,'t ,,1,u
nrrr f.oriiinn nnrtaiil or. aur I I v. I ... . . . .
, - v n , . ,, , " , ilfntish officials at rasmouth aoarched
leans, to Captain on Papen, dated De- y p . Ba, he
wmber 4. The letter expresses thetegted AmPrioan Ambassador Page in
thought that the captain must be glad UtUlloni Xhe (rman offlHl9 det.iared
to shake the dust of an unfriendly that ,iad the uiB rarried the
country off us feet, ami concludes by describ).d tlloy thought it unlikelv that
saying: May here also the day of he wou,j ,lave' caIIed furtm.r attention to
reckoning come and our government find them b protesting to an American offi-
again that iron determination with cial Hi8rprotest at the time was for-
w hich alone one can make an impression j ward,,d to' Count Von BernstorfT, who
.... . , ... sent it to the state department. There
The second letter is from Dr. F. N.lwag no action and it wag aid that the
Meyer on the occasion of the captain's safe which tht. aiiied govern-
departur from America. Two extracts lnt.nU Ca,(tain Von papeni
are " ''lovv.: ! guaranteed only his passage home to
"The Austrian note is of course a Germany, safe from seisure as a prisoner
matter for general quiet enjoyment and of war and did not anVct baggage or
the whole bumness can scarcely be taken pajw.rs.
tragically. Th president this time has At fhe nnll..r it. .ai that lbe
talked a bit too big even for those who ambassador from time to time bad paid
blindly support him. ,,. nion(y to Captain Von Papen in
"It's not surprising in view of the the way of iary and f(ir the exrH.g,.g
fictitious neutrality of the president that t,f euch WOT , he wa8 expected to con-
the term should have Wn put to your durt as a military attache. The embas-
work and you must carry back with ,y, it as said, had no knowledge of his
you the knowledge that you have done j,rjvate bank account or of how be dis-
ynur duty according to the best of rour bursed the monev.
ability as b.ng as it was possible." i Embassy officials apecificallv dis-
The third letter is written by Gen. claimed any knowledge of the reported
T" l 1 . T . . . 1 I 1 1 41 I . I ' . '
rrruericn j. o. icra iH-riumrui, inanKiii payment ot 7IKl t Werner Horn, eon
Austro-Hungary Saya Seven Villagers
Were Put to Death on Suspicion
of Murdering Italian Sentry
and Were Later Found
to Have Been In
nocent." Berlin, via wireless, Jan. 15. The
Overseas agency, in a statement to-day,
says that Italian atrocities in Austrian
territory occupied ny me lorces ot iiaiy t
n a m i ... i. .1 f.mn tl.a 1 KBlrn.Uiinmii'iBn '
icimuru J,i. I HID .&l.n..i . . !,,. ..... , , , . . ,
i . . .1 . V.-il,iirn rn 41.A .,i..T,f t4 noMiiiihiir V.l
press headquarters, heven Inhabitant", . 6 j ,
of one village were shot without trial.. " ",:,!w' i- V. C
on suspicion of having murdered an
CHASING BANDITS WHO rankhurst protested vigorously but
I Will lntormp1 riiMf. althmirr h nhm U SA al.
KILLED AMERICANS led to enter the United States in 1013
she was still subject to the federal stat
Carranza Soldiers Are Busily Engaged
and Meanwhile Efforts Are Being
Made to Get the Foreigners
Out of the Country.
Kl Paso, Tex, Jan. 13. The move
ment of General Trevino and other Car'
ranza military commanders to round up
utes barring aliens who have been con
victed of "crimes involving moral turpi-
WOMEN TEACHERS ORGANIZE.'
Joseph G. Calcagni Acquires Interest of
W. Corti Estate In Novelli & Calcagni.
A business change affecting one of the
best known plants in Barre granite belt
became effective to-day when Joseph G.
Calcagni purchased the interest in the
business of Novelli S, Calcagni held by
the estate of William Corti. The pur
chaser is one of the originators of the
HAD BEV- RESPOND
ENT 0r.w ILL HEALTH
.0s
1S Relatives Had Feared
x He Might Do Such
a Rash Act
Desjiondent becauso of an illness of
two years with tuberculosis and steadily
failing in health, Ambrosio Frontini,
one of tho best knqwn Italian resident
in Montpclier, took his life shortly af ter
II o clock last evening at his home,- 175
River street in that citfi by shttotinsf
himself. He committed the act by plac
ing a shotgun at his head, death result
ing instantly. " ...
His wife was the first to reach his side
after he had made away with himself,
she having occupied the sleeping room
adjoining his own. The family had re
tired at an early hour and it was hear
ing midnight when Mrs. Frontini awoke
to find her husband gone from his bed
and it was but an instant later that the
report of a gun rang through the house.
Mie aroused the cluldren and together
they hurried to a small room adjoining
ins sleeping apartment and there found
the body of Mr. Frontini, the gun, with
smoke still issuing from the barrel, ly
ing alongside of tho body.
The police headquarters were notified
concern and hereafter, while it will re-j
Form Branch of the Vermont Woman J tain its old name, the business will be by telephone and Officer Frank Baldwin,
Teachers' Club. lu,lulul auieiy uy -ur. vaii-agiu, h.b piayor James SL Uout well and the health
i transaction mivinc iziven mm me enure in mr itr ,n ,om 1 .i 41..
Twenty-five women teachers in the ownership. William Corti's death oe-
and destroy the bandits who massacred y scnoois met in tne assembly hall at curred in Italy last year, leaving his en- the body then removed to another room
IS Americans in Chihuahua last Monday ' . " ' ?a 5" " .ViV"," l'" .eS"te..'
divided attention on this side of the line
ening and tire estate in charge of bis wife, Mrs. I;,, the bouse.
For a nenm rf vnar Xfv r.nnf;n
circle of the Venuont Woman Teachers'! In aasumintr the responsibilities inci- worked at hia tra.l . o,
with the efforts to bring foreigners out club. The ehib has for its most imme-ldent to the ownership of one of the larg- Varirtn ulied in Arim-,,niior ,.,i h.
of the danger rone. About 1,000 Ameri- d,ate purpose, "social intercourse among est plants in the Barre granite belt, Mr. and at divers times conducted a small
cans are still in northern Mexico, of teachers, unity of higher professional Calcagni announces his purpose to con- business. Two vears ago illness com
whom about 150 are said to be in the Piri nJ -he promulgation of certain tinue the business along the broad lines pelled him to abstain from labor and ha
vicinity of Chihuahua City. "" rv "r uy 'e state ciuo. ine pursuea in tne past, jus purpose win went to North Carolina to visit his two
pectation
following officers were elected to s,;rvo be the same policy of honest dealing that daughters, with the hope and ex
the Barre chapter: President, Miss has served to establish and retain an en- that the change in climate
eliatliTA in nlimata .......1,1 1.
VALUABLE PROPERTY RECOVERED j Gertrude Brady; vice president, Mrs. viable reputation for the output of the beneficial. He returned to Montpclier
lAnnie Snyder secretary. Miss Anna I Novelli & Cah-acni plant. As heretofore, after a iv mnnil.a' .kc.nu i.t.
An Aeropiane moior aaen at vvuDura, i .vicuonaid; treasurer. Miss Uertha istill-1 it will be tne aim of tne concern to pro- improved but not restored to health and
Mass, Found in Rutland. son. dues the best that can be wrought out then lie decided to return to his former
I AH 1 .-irmiMi ti wnsviMM 4ia Al.ara An I tf ti a wrenita irs msusrllaitm mnmi. 1 a i . i
Rutland. Jan. lS.-An aeroplane motor l,""" . ." . "":':5"-"'r" "'"r "Z"., ,n jwra stay in tne old
of the Gnome tvne Valded at !4 5'W S11J 1 ,'K . " " 7 "S ve m ifieir mfnv. anu-atuary orio iq tne pa oountry tailed to bring desired results
at the p Znt l m i" tol o are eligible to membership Novelli A Calcagni have built and erect- and la(,t August be returned to Mont-
iL J KZ!iJ?tu?St n in Th nejtt meeting of the ed some of the finest memorials m the Hier. BilH.e that timc he had contirnie(1
4i.T- -.V' :'. i " M'arre chapter will be held at the as- country, making a specialty or line stat- to fail and for some time members of th
;.. th.. Lr f i. l,iT.;. i , inVlrH i8tM,,,,I-v na" on the eveninff of W ednes- uary. 1 lie concern s illacKweil street family had feared that he would do him-
6 Allard of ko. 129 Temple '. wet and hoUr W.'" P.1'"' i F'.ul n'r? in his Operation, being in a
BRINGS HJS BOY BACK.
pie street aim , . . . ,,;.
. . . , . , , , . . ........ i . in uj uiKUoniuiit,.
ir. nil ainfil Iiaii lilnnfin.nl li.i .lamna I I
McGrath of Brooklme, Mass., as his
engine which was stolen fom his sister's
barn in Woburn. Mass.. probably on the
night of December 23. The engine was Burlington Man Goes to the Canadian
shipped by express from the North ata-1 . Army to Get Francis Zeno.
tion in Boston to this city and later ,. T ,,
taken to the home of Geo?ge Schmidt I,.1 Turlington, Jan. 15.-Wroy J Zeno of
large enough to permit work on the hichlv nervous state.
neaviest type oi memorials, dui nor too T , deceased was born in Am,era.
large to prevent its skilled carvers from Italy. Anril 8. 1864. and came to Ameriea.
creating statuary oi superior woraman- j,4 vegrg Ue refijdpd wjtb the s-
anip. ception of a few years in Barre. al. of
that period in Montpclier.
SPIRITUALISTS HEAR MESSAGES. besides ins wite lie is survived by his
mother, Mrs. Madalena Jrontim. who
on Davis street where William D Korea cl uporKB """'V returnea yesieraay irom Annual Convention Ot Vermont ASSoaa- 'iusejui
w,.i.,.i i ii. im.,..,k, a Johns, ,1. Q., accompanied by his h. h.m rronnni or rssrre, and tne following rlnl-
: ". 7i JLZ: 7 " J" IS year-old son. Francia, who left his " - dren: Mrs. RA.chael Malineroli and Mrs.
nnahle to find Mr. Knvea veterdav. M,on on lcember 27, and enlisted at
tion Being Held at Montpelier.
Tho convention of the Vermont State I Felicina Brawler of Salisbury. X. C.
v..T,i im,rii,..v v.iv n.i ruiir t- Tohns as a member of the 87th regi- Spiritualist association is being Held at Mrs. Angelo C echini, Ambrose frontini
of Police B. 8. Hyland have been work-
ug on the case for the last few days,
which resulted in the finding of the mo
tor yesterday.
As near as can tie learned, the engine
disappeared from the barn in the rear
Italian sentry. Afterwards the innocence
of all seven was established.
Futher it is known that an Austro
Hungarian patrol of ten soldiers on duty
between Monfalcone and Sagrado were
assassinated, being overwhelmed by a
superior force, disarmed and killed.
AUSTRIAN WARSHIP SUNK.
Scout Cruiser Was Attacked by French
Submarine.
Rome, via London, Jan. 15. It is offi
cially announced that the French sub
marine Foucault, attached to the Ital
ian fleet, torpedoed and sank Thursday
in the Adriatic sea an Austrian scout
cruiser of the Novara type.
SPANISH STEAMSHIP
VICTIM OF MINE
Only One Member of Crew of 26 Was
Saved When the Bayo Went
Down Thursday.
ton by William D. Noyes on December
24. The machine lay in the express of
fice in this city for several days and
it was finally removed at night to the
cellar in the Schmidt home and later
moved to the Allard barn, again being
moved in the night.
Mr. Noyea has displayed two receipts
one of $100 and another of $200 which
are signed by Girdlcr McCall and it is
understood he claims lie purchased the
machine.
There are still missing several parts
of the machine which are valued at
several hundred dollars, including the
magneto, carbureter, oil pumps, propeller
house, electric distributor. The officers
have been unable to locate this property.
ment of Grenadiers. A week after his the G. A. R. rooms in Montpelier, having and Lucy Frontini of Montpelier. The
enlistment young Zeno notified his fa- bPPn opened last evening, and it will con- last two live at Home. There are also a
ther of his whereabouts, and Mr. Zeno tinue through Sunday evening. At the large number of nephews, nieces and
immediately took ii n with the. atata de- opening session last evening, C. H. In- cousins residing in Barre, Waterbury
partment at Washington the matter of galls- ot Montpelier presmeu, aim tne and other places outside the state,
obtaining his son's discharge. I principal address was by W J. Colville The funeral arrangements had not been
The bov, who was a member of tha of lx)n(lon , jr'ana, on uiat Are tne completed this noon,
maehinn Jnn troon of th recriment v. Prospects of Spiritualism?" Afterwards .
that it is composed principally of Amer- Mr- Annic R- Chapman of Boston spoke BOTTLE OF WATER FROZEN
r,m i, n.twn v.- v..i.,.t I along the same line.
states, who have been attracted by the .T1''8 n,or"i,K Mr8- Chapman gave an But Bottle of Alcohol Still Rippled When
. . . , aiiiroaa ansi nwiaca rrns ann iirnn-inn inia A - - -
..t. ...... - Taken uit Men saved from Cold.
aiternoon. ine election oi oincers win
be held late to-day. To-morrow a pro
gram like that of to-day will be given.
thoughts of the danger and excitement
of participating in the war. The regi
ment receives several hours of drill in
struction each day, and will be a part
of the contingent of Canadian troops
which will be sent to the front in the
spring,
FIVE WORKMEN INJURED.
NO MONEY TO BACK CHECK.
the raptain for having published two
llernhardt articles in the New i orlc
Sun. The letter comments on the fact
that the British and French press at
tacked the Sun article. An extract frvm
the letter's conclusion i as follows:
"HoweteT, I agree with you that mili
tary auci-ess will be a decisive factor for
opinio in America. But also England's
Interference in American trade will not
fad to have a certain effect. I hope
both will take effect tifether. I think.
London. Jan. 15. Only one out of
the crew of 2 of the Spanish steamship at A. I). Farwell s store in Montpclier
Havo was saved when the vessel on . i-aiurtiay aiternoon witnoui Having tne
Thursday was sunk by a floating mine necessary funds in the bank to back
40 miles" off La Rocbello. The Bayo was j it up. On information that Canales
en route from Huelva, Spain, for l.ajtold of his intention to go to Boston,
Rochelle. .Sheriff Tracy traced (analea from that
city to Greenfield.
Canales has been employed until re
cently in the office of Smith 8. Ballard
in Montpelier. A short time ago he
told of having fallen heir to a legacy
of $10,000 from a relative in Spain, but
it is understood that be has not received
the legacy.
Joseph Canales Alleged to Have Been
Careless in Presenting Check.
An officer is expected to return to
Montpelier late to-day with Joseph Ca
nales who was arrested at Greenfield,
Mass.. yesterday afternoon on the charee
of obtaining money under false pretences, j form to be used in the manufacture of
Jhe state s attorney s warrant alleges oynamite. i ne structure was complete
that' Canales cashed a check of C44'.H9lly demolished at an estimated loss of
In DuPont Company's Eighth Blow-up
in Three Months.
Philadelphia, Jan. 15. An acid house
at the plant of the DuPont Powder com-
Ipany at Gibbstown, 1ST. J., blew up last
rnglit, injuring five workmen, two of
them probably fatally. It was the eighth
explosion at the DuPont plants in this
section in tho last three 'months w;ith
a total of 39 deaths and injury to 20
persons. The building in which last
night's accident occurred was of brick
and iron construction and was known
as the nitrate of ammonia crystallizing
house. It was here that nitrate was
transformed from the crystal to liquid
WITNESS COULDN'T SAY
Whether She Would Be Willing to Re
turn to Live with Her Husband.
Two woodsmen fast in the lethal grin
of Old Boreas, the well-known north
wind, were released from that despotio
monarch's clutches at 3:30 o'clock this
morning by Officers Dineen and Hender
son and locked up at police headquarter
after the police had satisfied themselves
that the pair were out of danger. George
McSwain. who knows the deep woods
around Rochester and Warren like a
The f ctitionee, Helen Foster, was on
Oia ntflnd for two hours -esterdnr affpr-
noon and for one hour this morning in book Kt out of jail yesterday morning
the divorce suit brought against her by and was ln the tol,s B"n to-day. His
rir A O Fnarer nf Ilnrre Ulien aalred Pal, JameS McCarthy, Was With him
by the court if she was willing to re
turn to live with her husband, the wit
ness was inclined to be in doubtful frame
of mind because she did not know wheth
er conditions would be improved.
ST. MONICA DEBT
WAS WIPED OUT
IN TWO MONTHS
HOLLAND'S FLOOD
VERY DEVASTATING
Great Dikes Along Zuyder Zee Collapsed
and Peasants Fled Precipitately
Before Rush of Water.
Iindon, Jan. 13. The damage from
flood in northern Holland is said by
Feuter a Amsterdam cirreipndent to
$25,000.
WOMAN ON PROBATION
ACCEPTS MONTPELIER CALL.
nected with the attempted destruction of
a Canadian Pacific bridge. They pointed
out that all German officials in this
country had reputedly disclaimed any
connection with the rlian and declared
that such a payment, if made, would! be greater than at firrt Ixlieved. Great
hardlv have ben v a rherk. Ther fur- jdikes alung the Zitvder Zee colls p-w-d in
her disclaimed any knowledge of the lateral p!r and peasant with ratlle I-arh has accepted the rail to the rector-)
1 . -. i 1 4 - .in.: 1 t... ii . : . . 1 - . . i i .14!
But Man Must Serve 18 Months in State
Prison.
Hyde Park, Jan. 15. At a special ses
sion of Lamoille county court held yes
terday Fred Hinkman of Fletcher "and
Mr. Hersey Bennett of Pleasant Valley
were charged with adultery. Both plead
ed guilty and Hickman was sentenced to
Windsor for not more thsn 1H months
nor les than one year. Mrs. Bennett
was given the same sentence, but she
was placed in the charge of the probation
officer for two years.
Through the Efforts of Rey. P. M. Mc
Kenna $7,000 Was Raised and the
Mortgage on the Church Prop
erty Was Paid This
Month.
when the officers came to their rescue.
A bottle of alcohol and a bottle of wa
ter, the latter frozen, were taken from
the men. They will be arraigned before
Magistrate H. W. Scott in city court
this evening.
Eugene B. Arnold, a Lanesboro lum
ber jack, who was arrested by Chief Sin
clair Friday afternoon, pleaded guilty to
a first offense this morning and accept
ed the alternative jail sentence in pref
erence to paying a $5 fine and costs.
John Bresett, who was arrested by thn
chief in the Central Vermont station
yestenlay, acknowledged a subsequent
offense Inst night and went to jail for fi.
days, being unable to pay a fine of $15
and costs of $3.05.
DIED AT N0RTHF1ELD.
FRANKLIN COUNTY LAWYERS.
explosion referred to as having oomrred
in Seattle, or in Kuepfetle.
The development aroused the deepest
interest, everywhere in official Washing-
Imwever. that especially ia the west ton. coming as the sequel to the with
where I expert there will soon be a 'draws! of Von I'ap- B and his colleague,
big attempt l break through. haw Captain lioy-Kd, the C-rman natal atta
eriiis and difficult limea to l,k for-tche. at the r-)iiet nf the I u:J States,
ward t. hut I confidently helx-ve that Kxartly wt.at eT,d-m-e the state d
e shall successfully nirrmm t rw-in." j partnrsetit lias of the .t u ,t- of the tau
The fourth Utter ia from Dr. Albert, lGi man oSii ntr Las b-ta ii kd.
Eer. F; Bart by Leach to Be Pastor of
Christ Church.
Burlington. J..n. VV-Kev. F. P.n nby : jbj Annual Meeting and listened to
Lieut. Gov. Darling.
Starting late in October, Rev. Fr. P.
M. MeKenna of St. Monica's church has.
in less than two months' time, raised
sufficient funds to pay the 7.0O owed
on the church property and on Jan. 1
the mortgage was paid and the church ia
now free from debt. The money needed
to do this was raised by subscription,
the contributors being as follows:
2itO
2ml
no
2i0
(led precipitately before the risinir at- shii. of Oiri-t church. Montpelier. that I
rrs. From all the north of Holland as extended to him a few weeks ag.! St. Allans, Jan. 15. The annual meet
come reports of distress caused by tie He will finish bis duties here at St. ing of the Frsnklin County Bar asaocia
ibiod. j Paul's and All .Stint's February and tion was held last evening at
Mrs. lyrach and their daughter oVba-k in the county cbrka offiv-e. He
In an address at a ron'vrt for wound-will go to Mntp-lter to Vr up b;s following officers were elected: Presi
ed aoHiers the chief speaker for t'e oik tWre t)e last Sunday in Fci.r-J- dent, tnis X. Kelton; v nt president. Nn-
evrnimr said: 'air. No i,.-resr to Mr. Fach a nir- in .V. Post; serr.-tary and tiesstirer. Kl- THomas
P. M. MeKenna
Marrion O'Leary
I. M. Miles
Burke Brothers
Brown A Nelson
tanton Brothers
diaries J. Icclair
(ieorjie Marrion
John B. Kelly
Anonymous
Anonymous .....
Anonymous
Antmrmous
From dramatic cliib and home tal
ent play 3
I. tarroil and tamdv.
Joseph Sartorelli Had Lived in BarTS
Many Years.
Joseph Sartorelli, for nearly 30 yea re
a well-known figure in the Barre grand
belt, died at his home in Xorthfield yes
tenlay, according to news received by hia
friends in this city this morning. Mr.
Sartorelli was ."i0 years old and a native
of Italy. Around 30 years aso he came
to American and soon thereafter, settled
in the Barre granite district. He lived in
this city several years and was also a
-n ! long-time resident of Williamstown. Mr.
),', ! Sartorelli ia survived by his wife. (w
jjsons. Iiouis and Joseph Sartorelli. and a
likl 'daughter. .Mrs. V. I.indi.i.
Iisli T'" f"n'', ""'d 'n NorthfirM
lia I Sunday afternoon at 1 o'cbx-k. and infrr
1,1.1 1 ment ill be in that iliac. Man m- m-
l'"'li t.-l; I
i.H-rs oi tne imiiaii i-,iott ,n arre ar
planning to attend the funeial.
1'KI
'l mm in ierd flad tn
you rf--it tins eteniug.'
Lemrj Star.
m fruiny of
FdiutMirgb '-!. 1
ale at St. I'atd's lis a vet botn nlmt- mer Johnson; rxeitive eorfimiltee. I
I a ctiim.ttr .f tr-tMt,i,a is ,Oorire t. Stetens, t.eorge M. Hogsn and '
North Main street
In Probate Court.
court to-dav. t;i!c"
tv!f ij. rug the tat Her.
M. U. AleiaaAr.
(Coetioued on second fe.J
In ir..lt
Hunt inlo-i of M"ntp'"T was mmr. s
-ve.iitr of the lat will ad ":
of Isnnl Worcester,, late of Koiirti'
I
