)je ! ! -sis
FULL LEASED
WIRE DISPATCHES
w "
il! sje sjs sje s(; !: sje sjs sje sje f):
!
CIRCULATION IS
OVER 4000 DAILY
.
. , & ' & 23
THIRTY-EIGHTH YEAR
SALEM, OREGON, SATURDAY, JANUARY 15, 1916
PRICE TWO CENTS
A
HUNDREDTH
Recent Russian Offensive Res ld In Extensive Gains For
Slavs, So London Reports- snna, On Other Hand, As
serts That Attacks Were Everywhere Repulsed and
That Their Front Was Not Broken-Offensive Has Again
Been Renewed By Russians After Short Interval
London, Jan. 15. The Austrians lost 100,000 men in
cluding 10,000 prisoners in the recent Russian offensive,
according to the Chronicle's Petrograd messages today.
How desperate was the Austrians' plight was indicated
from the fact that the Austrian General Bothmer, to keep
his troops from retreating across the Strypa river,
destroyed bridges in rear. Then clinging to the east bank,
the Teutons were exposed to a tremendous fire, from the
Russian artillery.
'The offensive," said the dispatch, "covered the period
when the allies were strengthening their positions in the
near east, and it held off the Germans while the work of
fortifying and landing at Salonika and evacuating Galli
poli peninsula went forward. So far, it served its pur
pose. Moreover, it warned the Germans that the initia
tive is gradually slipping from their grasp.''
The Austrian Version.
Vienna, Jan. 15. After abandoning the Montenegrin
capital, Cettinje, the Montenegrins retreated along the
whole south and west fronts toward Albania, said a war
office statement today.
This told, too, of a renewed offensive by the Slavs
around Czernowitz.
"The Russians," said the statement, "attempted to
break our Bessarabian front near Toporoutz and east of
Rarancze north of Czernowitz. Five great attacks failed,
and well directed artillery fire contributed nobly to the
repulse of the enemy.
"Since the beginning of the battle in East Galicia and
Bessarabia, the Ausrians have captured 5100 prisoners."
Homo, Jim. 15. While the Austrians
ring of iron lias compelled evacuntion
of the Montenegrin cupitul, Cettinje,
Hin diplomatic, corps linn fled that city
ii ml .reached Scutari, Albania, accord
ing to Austrian advices viu Munich to
diy. Montenegrin Btrnpfflors are likewise
entering Allmnin to escape capture.
Meantime, Montenegrin guorillus lire
linn-ussing the victorious Austrians, nnd
Moody fighting is In progress north
east of (Scutari.
The whereabouts of King Nicholas
nml his forces which withdrew from
Cettinje is a mystery, but it in believed
tlio sovereign, is heuding for JScuturi,
whero he will negotiate concerning the
proposed separate pence with Austria.
Tho Cettinje forces were virtually
surrounded at last reports. Tho only
path of retreat is along it 45 mllo pap
to tho south, lending through the north
ern A 1 1 : n i it 11 mountains, where hostile
1 lilies would attack them.
It is believed hero thnt the hopeless
ness of tho situntion prompted King
Kichnlna to accept an armistice with
Austria, though reports as to this ore
Hill unconfirmed.
Pessimism over the consequent blow
t Italian prestige in the Adriatic was
somewhat dispelled today with news
that tho French submarine Foucnult, at
tached to tho Italian fleet, had sunk
an Austrian scout cruiser of tin; Navarn
type.
Germany Rejects Proposal
Berlin, by wireless to Hityvlllp, I.. I.,
.1 in. 15. Germany Ims rejected the sug-
Abe Martin
Mr. Glen Bad '11 join th' Peg lur
eriny an' offers his narrow Hparkln'
buggy fer sale. Miss Tawner Apple,
vhile wnlkln' through t stubble field,
.V'sterdny, vent, mistaken fer two ribbits
an got shot hi th' inkles.
OSANDMEN
gestion of Sir Kdwaril Grey thnt the
Burnlong case, in which British officers
were accused of murdering the German
submnrine'H crew, bo submitted to in
vestigation by a court of American, nav
al officers.
Germany has sent to Great Britain
through American Ambassador Oerard
denial of charges that the Germans
were guilty of inhumnn practices; nt
the same time, the note announced that
Germany will attempt reprisals because
of the alleged cold blooded murder of
the submnrino crew.
Knglnud's offer to submit tho Barn
long ense to an American tribunal was
made with tho proviso that Germany
submit threo cases of alleged German
brutality.
British Steamers Collide.
i.oiuon, .inn. 10. several persons
urownou today wlien the British steam
ers Argus and I.archwood collided in
the Bristol channel., Tho Argus lauded
some of tho Larehwood's survivors.
Crew Is Drowned.
London, Jan. 15. Twenty-five, mem
bers of tho crew of the 2,"U0 ton (Span
ish steamer Bayo perished when that
vessel was mined Tuesday in tho Bay
of Biscay. Ouo mnn was snved.
Ovation for Kaiser.
Berlin, by wireless to tinyvillo, L. I.,
Jan. J.5. Kaiser Williolm was joyfully
cheered by street throngs today ns he
drove to tlM lieichskansler luncheon.
Trading Was Active
h Wall Street Today
(Cupyright 1H15 by the New York Ev
ening Post.)
New- York, Jan. 15. Tho week closed
with the stock market In much tho same
condition ns durinir tlm nn.i f ... ,i...
since the heavy declino in wnr stocks
V..1.IIII1UH-H. iruumg was active, but
prico movements wore- irregulnr, with
most of them not varying grently from
yesterday's close. In ,.n,n in.f...i.:.i
- - - ' V IUUUOIIIUI
issues, repurchases by speculative sell-
fir. tt-ni. l.i ..!.!....-- V... . . .. ...
...... in i-tiui-ucu uui even tney did
not maintain their early advances. It
was hardly necessary to ascribe the un
ccrtalnnoss to auy news developments,
and the chance that may something
happen ovor night or over Sunday was
too fnmilinr nrnnn.ltinn L. - ...
trolbng influence.
ir wnr stocks Wero tho renl criterlan
of the mnrknt. Iha imnlitn..,, Lf.un.
u..... nm.ii. 1111 Ul CliriT
regarding dwindling prosperity would
bo correct. But they have never per
formed that medal nrophetie office.
STRICT OOLP BTIOTJXATIONS
Chlcnco. Jan. IB -The lTnltfwl Mtntn.
Oolf association today damned on its
most stringent nillnir. when It hnbl onv
golf player is llnble to suspension or
expulsion, who acts an agent or an
emnlovo of s concern handling golf
supplies, or is engaged in any business
in which "one's usefulness or profit
arise because of bi skill or promlnenco
in golf."
GERMAN OFFICERS AND TURKISH ARTILLEY CROSSING
THE MESOPOTAMIA DESERT TO STRIKE AT THE BRITISH
5? 'iT
The recent losses of tho allies in the vicinity of Bagdad was duo in great measure, according to military ex
perts, to the able mnnner in which the Germans aided their Turkish allies. Tho photograph shows n Turkish artil
lery division mndo up of Turks and Germans going "across the Mesopotamia desert to meet tho British.
SCOFIELD IS
OF
E
Salem High School Student
Arrested With Marked Cur
rency On His Person
John Scoficld, n 17 year old student
of the Salem high school, who has been
acting as assistant messenger for the
Salem post office, was arrested last
night on a charge of robbing the mails.
The young man has been in tho em
ploy of the postoi'l'ico here since Sep
tember of 1!M5 and recently tho post
office authorities) suspected that the
boy had tilling small checks auJ
currency from letters. Last night
Postmaster August lluckeslein and As
sistant Postmaster John Knrrnr lay in
wait after marking two $1 bills and
taking the serial numbers of tho bills
for reforencc. Tho bills were placed in
an envelopo addressed to "II. O. Mar
tin, Collecting Agency, Portland."
Mr. Iluckestoin ninl Mr. iFarrnr then
watched tho youth from their hiding
place and flaw him take tho two letters
and one addressed to Secretary of
Stato Oleott and enter the lavatory.
Tho sheriff's office h.id been noti
fied and Sheriff Kseh was called to ar
rest tho young man. They found the
two $1 bills on his poison when he wns
searched and also tho letter addressed
to Becretury Oleott which had not been
opened.
Sheriff Esch brought tho young man
over to his office and stuted today
that tho boy nude a confession in
which bo said lie had taken six let
ters sinco ho had been working around
the postoffico. Scoficld told Sheriff
Kseh thnt the first letter ho took was
addressed to Secretary Oleott, shortly
before the Christmas holidays, lie said
the letter contained a chock and that
ho wjs afraid to cash it and he tore it
up and throw it nwny.
The young man told Sheriff Esch
that ho toro open tho corners of the
enovlopes and if they contained cur
rency ho appropriated them to his own
uso and if they contained postal money
orders or checks ho dropped them back
into the mail boxes.
The ofi'enso with which Rc-ofield is
charged will be hnndlol in tho fedora 1
courts ind does not como under any of
tho provisions of tho stato law which
allows judges to parole from tho bench
or to givo indeterminate sentences. Tho
amount of money taken has no bearing
on tho case under tho federal law and
the senteneo for conviction of an em
ployee robbinb tho mails is n $501) fine
or live years in prison or both. Tho
feder.il judge, however, under tho com
mon law rights can suspced sentence iu
iilinor offenses but no pardons are is
sued for nn offense ngnliiHi the federal
law except by tlio prcsidont of the
United States.
Young Scoficld Is tho Bon of C. t
ScofieUi who resides on a farm two
miles cast of Marion. Jin is a student
in the Salem high school and sought
employment in the postoffice to lid n
paving his way through school, lie
passed tho civil service examination
Inst fall and wns mndo assistnnt mes
senger during the holidny ruch. The
messenger wus not allowed tho run of
tho mail room but on account of the
cold weather which has been prevalent
this winter ho iins been allowed to
come inside tho mall room where it is
warm. Ho has been making the trains
and doing other special errands as an
assistant to Messenger Keys.
Some time ago a womnn made com-
int Scoficld had been tamper
ing with tho packages and at thnt time
he was reprimanded by Postmaster
iluckestoin anil it was thought that he
i arnod that It was dangerous to
tamper with the V. 8. mails.
Large Districts Flood
Northeast of Amsterdam
Amsterdam, Jan. 15, 81x:teen per
sons have been drowned at the Island
of Marken, 10 miles northeast of here
following tho breaking of uyke be
fore flood waters. The situntion there
is extremely serious. Telephone com
munication Is broken.
Whole districts are Isolated by water
sweeping through a break in tho Zuy
der Zee dyke. Poldora is inundated;
the railway from Itottordojn to Uord
relcht la partly destroyed. .
Soldiers at 'ort Durgnrdam Iprnt the
night In a cupola and were rescued at
daybreak by ships.
CLEVER STROKE MADE
BY BRITISH FORESTALLS
AMERICAN PROTEST
By Ed L. Keen.
(United Press Staff Co respondent.)
London, Jan. 15. The British for
eigh office executed a clever stroke, of
fiuuls declared today, in making public
at this tim the Seized documents of
German Attache Yon Papon, rognrded
here ad the source of paymouts for anti-ally
activities In America. Well
posted authorities believe the publica
tion of these, together with England's
furnishing them officially to the Uni
ted States state department will check
American agitation for protests against
the British blockade.
One official commented:
" Wo believe President Wilson will
hesitate, pending an investigation of
Ambassador Von Bcrnstorff's connec
tion with the Von Pnpen payments,
and will discover whether Teuton sub
marine leniency is actuated purely by
a spirit of friendliness for America or
for the purpose of bettor carrying oift
of the campaign of frightfulness in
America."
ltesponsible off;cinl,s stated thnt
England will not indon her. blockade
against Gormany, despite possiblo Am
erican protests.
They hold, too, that thought this was
originally a measure of reprisal ugainst
Teuton submarine attacxs, it mis- now
developed into a legal war blockade.-
Embassy Embarrassed.
Washington, Jan. 15. German Am
bassador Von Bernstorff today faced
embarrassing explanations as a result
of disclosure of money expenditures
shown in documents seized in England
from Captain Von I'nnen, tho recalled
German attache. Thcso documents
showed that under tho head of "war
intelligence" nn account, ho had turn
ed over to Von Pnpen largo sums and
these, in turn, had been distributed
variously throughout the country just
before certain anti-ally bomb "jobs"
wcro executed.
It was regarded here as possiblo thnt
tho ambassador will havo difficulty in
defendi'ig his connection with Von
Paneu's work work thnt made tho at
tache non-grnta with this government.
Officials noiiitcl out t tint conclusive.
lentil proof of wrong doing is not re-j
quired to impair tho amhnssndor s dip
lomntic usefulness; mere belief or
moral certainty of such misconduct is
sufficient for recall.
London publication of Von Papon's
check stubs and letters, many of the
latter bitter against the United Stales,
created strong interest nmong officials.
Tho ambassador, however, reiterated
his skepticism ns to the actuality of
these documents, coupled with his dis
belief, that if they really do exist, they
showed that Pnpen used iiis funds for
"liminiil con.spiiucies in tho United;
Stiito.-).
The embassy's attitude Is, that whili
it ml in 1 1 h giving Von Pnpen frequent
large sums, it is ignorant of any wrong
ful uso thereof and believes that the
money was used for legitimate expens
es. Von llernstorff scouted the idea
touidi nt an English port, would have
any Incriminating documents on his
person,
Tho administration Indicated thnt it
insists on further inquiry nnd will
probably await photographic copies of
the documents now being forwarded by
American Ambassador iugo from Lon
don. Authorities wcro not disposed to
accept the embassy disclaimer of ig
norance as absolving tho German dip
lomats from responsibility. Von llern
storff, as Von Hipcn's chief, it was
said, was responsible to a certain ex
tent. A tangle of embassy accounting, pre
cluding sitivo proof of misconduct
of officials other than Von Papen, is
considered a possible development.
THE WEATHER
Oregon: Tonight
nnd Sunday gen
erally fair oxcopt
occasional snow,
axmthwest por
tion, continued
cold; northeaster
ly winds.
THIS iToV
rEEI-S Goof))
London advices indicated that Von
Papen not only made payments to
Werner Van Horn, alleged would-bo
dynamiter of tho internutionnl bridge
at Vanceboro, Me., but that ho also
furnished funds for Anton Kueperle
(probably Kuopforle), a German spy
suspect who later committed suicide.
'.There was other evidenco that Pa
pen sent money to tho Seattle consul
previous to a suspicious dynamite oc
currence in that vicinity.
Jn various letters wore indications ot
Gorman displeasure at the Wilson ad
ministration. One spoke of Wilson as
being too strong in his representations
to Austria, even for those who loyally
backed him.
"Tho nature of tho Von Papen pa
pers is of no official interest to me,"
commented Bernsiorff today, refusing
to discuss tho caso in detail.
Tho envoy's position is that while
ho gave Von Pupcn money, it was a
matter of convenience, und that tho at
tache accounted for it to Berlin and
not to the embassy.
Concerning the $700 payment to
Werner" Van Horn, alleged dynamiter,
it is expected tho embassy will niain
tain that it was for Van Horn's do
fenso as a Gorman citizen.
The stato department intends to
scrutinize carefully the payments of
Von llipen to Consul Mueller, of Se
attle, who is now in charge of the At
lanta consulate. ' Mueller's explana
tion that he received the money to send
roservists to New York is considered
one capable of proof or disproof.
AT BROOKLYN YARD
pne Life Lost and Others Are
, Misssing Acording to
Reports
New York, Jan. 1!5. An explosion
which ripped off tho top of Submarine
r.-a nt ine jtroomyn navy yard is'
known to have claimed one life, nnd
perhaps others. Stories ontsido the
yard said, indeed, that fivn men had
perished outright in the blast, and that
upwards of 15 wcru probably fatally in
jured Officers refused information
of tho disaster until tho list of victims
had been prepared, but it was un
officially admitted that "over thrco or
four" were killed.
Trouble with batteries was assigned
ns the cause. A wavo of flarno swept
tho interior of the underscn vessel just
after tho explosion, trapping tho men In
the hull, nnd leaving manholes in the
rear of the ship as their only menns of
escape. Hence it wns possible to take
out the grimy, terrified men only one
nt a time, Homo of tho injured ap
peared dead, and for a time It was
impossible to tell just how badly they
were hurt, becauso bluck smoko nnd
grime covered their wounds and nrnde
them appear almost like charred bodies.
It wns believed thnt probably many of
the crew of 3ft, most of whom were
aboard when tho blast came, worn seri
ously burned as they fought their way
through tho smoko and flnmu filled
diver to tho sxits. Some of thoso who
fought their wny to tho outsldo were
cloaked in flumes.
The submarine was nt the yard fo
repairs.
When li beiamo apparent ihit the nj
cldent might hnvo been more serious
thnn at tint Indicated, the navy yard
wbs closed Then officials withheld
authoritative Information and cloaked
the wlulo affair In nc'ery.
Tho e.vploMon Is the second disaster
of recent months aboard United States
undersea vessels. The other Incident
was the sinking of the F-4 at Honolulu
with ill her crew aboard. Faults
within tho submarine was assigned In
thnt case, too, as responsible for the ac
cident. The commandant declared later that
GARRANZA IS LEFT FREE
10 VINDICATE HIS RULE
Senate Adjourns Over Until Monday and. There Is No Ea
mediate Prospect of Interference With Administration
Plans Toward Mexico-Refugees, Fearing For lives;
Pour In EI Paso City rls More Quiet Now That first
Fury In Rioting Was Spent
Washington, Jan. 15. With no prospect of American
interference in Mexico, the administration today pro
ceeded with its policy of giving General Carranza a
chance to punish the murderers of eighteen Americans at
Santa Ysabel, Monday, and to provide protection against
a recurrence.
The senate had adjourned to Monday. Meantime, it is
believed that Carranza will show he can do as much, or
more, toward handling the situation than the United
States could by intervening. Though the house held its
usual session, no trouble was anticipated from its
members.
. General Carrahza's personal pledge to Secretary of
State Lansing or President Wilson to hunt down and
execute the bandits was expected, for only a general
statement to that effect has come from him thus far.
The state department promised no immediate action
on the petition of El Paso citizens to oust Consul Edwards
of Jaurez, and it will make no effort to investigate him
until the excitement at El Paso has entirely subsided.
El Pnso. Texas, Jan. IS. Fearing
that Villista bandits would give them
short shrift as in tho enso of 18 Amer
icans murdered nt Santa Ysabel, cower
ing refugees from northern Mexico
poured la hero today.
Many of them left Behind developed
nronertics or rich prospects: and be
causo of this 'Joined with angefod mlrF
ing and cnttlo mn, alrouuy uoro, in de
nunciation of tho administration for
what thoy called lack of proper pro
tection for American rights south of
the border.
On the whole, however, the city seem
ed to have lost somo of its first firoy
fury ovor tho executions. United
Stutos troopers still kept gunrd over
portions of the city. Last night they
marked off tho Mexican Hection and
permitted no Mexicans to quit it; nor
nny Americans to enter it, lest the pre
vious night 'h rioting bo resumed.
Officials sought to learn why two
American soldiers were in a group of
52 refugees who renched tho border
Inst night from tho C'hiliunhiia district.
The pair was discovered 18 miles south
of tho boundary.
Included in the party wcro all tho
fnrco were nil tho Guggenheim plant in
Chihuahua.
Cnrrnnziatn authorities in .Tunrez be
stirred themselves today to ufford pro
tection to tlio Mormon colony of Amer
icans nt Camis llrnndes, C'liihunhun, for
nil efforts to induce them to flee havo
iroveu unavailing.
With somo of the funerals of Snnto
Ysabel victims already held, plans wcro
mndo for giving Manager Watson of
the Cusi company a Masonic burial to
morrow, nnd W. J. Wallace, similar ser
vices Monday.
Minpln funeral services for tho dead
'lenernl Ilucrtn provoked no demonstra
tion. Today the body rests within a
vault, waiting the timo when it may
bo taken back to his native land in
keeping with his dying wishes.
TTnw wenk Villa's cniiHe now u wnn
indicated by dispatches stating that I
his list showed tho following deud:
Clumber Lognn.
.Tnhn Hcliultz, yard workman.
Two unidentified men, one of whom
wns an enlisted sailor.
Ten men wcro Injured, nmong whom
wns Chief Kloctricinn Miles, whoso con
dition is critical. Officers snld there
would bo a further search, but it is be
Mevod that all tho bodies wore tuken
out.
Caune of Explosion.
Washington, .Ian. 15. Tho submnrino
l'T-2, victim of an explosion at tho
Brooklyn navy yard todav, wns tho
"i rut undersea boat in the ITnited States
nnvy to be equipped with the new
Rdison batteries. The department ex
plained that there is no such thing as
a battery explosion, and that previous
submarine accidonts had been caused
bv generation of poisonous gases from
tho batteries, with no outlet whilo the
craft was submerged. The Edison bat
tery was designed to obviate such
noisonlng.
Tho flro department reports sold ten
men wcro aboard, two of whom wcro
seriously injured, and that rescue of
the others was prevented by deadly
-nses inside.
FERBI8 OIL BILL PASSES. .
Washington, Jnn. 15. Th Ferris oil
'and leasing bill passed tho houso at 3
i 'clock this afternoon.
California oil producers oasted from
public lands by tho Taft order with
drawing certain of thesn lands, will be
given preference under tho Kerns bill,
his personal following is only forty
while his whole causo is now in tht
hands of -.scattered guerilla bands, num
bering only a few hundred.
Press dispatches tonded to confirm,
that Mnnnfcr Wntson of the ill-fnted
Snnta YBabel party had refused a mili
tary escort, apparently believing thnt
he and his party were entirely aer.vrre
without them, and that perhaps ntx-h n,
guard would only dfaw the fire of Itim
dits along tho route.
Must race firing Sqnad.
New York, Jan. 15. Dosth before
Mexican firing squads will bo tho futu
of Mexican bandits who Monday pnr
ticipnted in the ghnstly massacre of
Americans at Hantu, Ysabel.
Oonornl Trevinn, Carranza command
er at Chihuahua City, thus wired tndny
to tho United Press, nt 1he same time
confirming reports thnt the Carmn.is
tas had executed (tenornla Rodriguez
and Almeida, bandit chieftains.
"Punishment administered to tho cul
prits in tho Knnta Ysabel massacre,"
said tho message, "will be identical
with thnt meted out to Itndrigues and
Caring Almoidu. Thoy were made pris
onors and shot. .
"I havo ordered a regiment aider
Colonel Jose Villnncuvu to pursue the
Hunta Ysabel bandits und simultaneeagr
ly lmvo ordercil Oonnrnl Joso Cavaiaa
nnd tho chief of detachments at Hns
tillos, Cusihuiruchio and Kan Antonio
to wntch tho murderers' movomontn.
"The bandits, roiili.ing that tho eonp
stitutionulists are moving on ail siil
retired to Cnrretus and Inter scattered
in smull groups. If we locnto them,
wo will pursue them without rest.
"With combined movements over th
two branches of the northwest railway,
wo dill succeed in keeping nwny all
bunds, and in putting them to flight or
in pushing them to the Sierra Muihes,
whero they will find no food.
"Juarez informs me thnt tho Far
son, Conns (irundos, und Wild era garri
sons havo been reinforced."
Ryan Will Make Fight
For Citizenship Rights
Han Francisco, .Inn. 11. Buffeted
from ono country to another and dis
owned by each, .liunes liiynn, who de
clared ha is an American born in Con
necticut, caino to Han Francisco today
nn the liner Nippon Maru to make a
fight for recognition us an Ameritan
citizen.
"I was arrested for robbery in Fort
Xicavenworth, Kansns, nnd served three)
years," he claimed. "At tho end of
that time two fellows who had it in for
me declared I wns nundesirnble alien,
nnd askod that I bo deported. I pro
tested but was ordered sent to Cnleut
ta. When I reached Han Francisco I told
my atnry to Officer Frank lluy
Angnl Island, but ho refused to in
vestigate .
"I was deported on January ft. At
Hongkong they threw me in prison.
"I appealed to tho American consul,
but to no purpose. Finally I reacted
Calcutta. The English officials re
fused to receive me and hero I an
again, a man without a country."
1 1
HE STOLE $20,000 ROLL
F.vansvlllo, Ind., Jan. 15. AssWaat
Bookkeeper dooigo Fink of th liar
enles lluggy eoimny entered aia ox
firo today, picked up 0,000 intoadadl
for tho payroll, and made hi .
a wai later captured with the ioT
intact. . i , ,lilW
