THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Increasing cloudiness, followed by show,
ers and probably thunderstorms to-day.
Highest temperature yesterday, 80; lowest, 60.
Detailed weather, mall and marine rcporu on pago 6.
tilt.
IT SHINES FOP, ALL
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 28.
NEW YORK, THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1916. Copyright, 191 G, by the Bun Printing and Publtihlng Association,
ONE CENT
In Greater Nw York,
Jersey City and Nenark.
TWO CENTS.
ALLIES SMASH
BIGGER GAP IN
LINES ON SOME
British Storm Redoubt and
Capture Trendies on Front
of 2.000 Yards.
COUNTER ATTACKS
BY FOE ARE FUTILE
.French Withstand Fierce
Assaults and Extend
Their Gains.
16 AEROPLANES ABE
LOST TO GERMANS
Great Raid on Towns
Belgium Is Made
by British.
in
London, Sept. 27. diving tho cior-
nms no rest, tho victorious Ilrltlsh
md Trench troops ore driving forward
fn the Sommo front, lloth nrmlca
ron more victories to-day along the
i.imo front where yesterday they made
".fir Important progress, livery Ocr-
tnin attempt to turn tho tide failed, all
lounttr attackft being beaten Kick.
The Hiltlsh pushed homo their cap-
turf pf Thiepvnl nnd placed themselves
Urnily on the main ridge northeast of
tSe Ullage. They stormed the Ocr
man work called the Stuff Kedoubt,
.ww janls from Thiepvnl. Five miles
they pushed forward north uf
Hitj, taking tieinidii trenches on a
WO yard front and threatening
iu.-ourt 1'Abbaje.
l'reneli Continue llrlic
Trc I'lench Mept tho Ucrnians still
f jrther back from Uancourt and penc
tratrd the hrgo M. 1'lerro Vaast Wood,
jre. tly earn of Itancourt. They also cap-
jrea a lortllleil wood east or Vermando
r. south of tho Sunime. Tho Of r
nns counter attacked the French ikv
t:'iws at Houchuvesiie.M again, but the
1'ren ti d.ihrd out to meet the nttnek
. threw them back broken and took
it) prisoners and eight machine guns.
To-niclifs Itrlttah statement estimates
e ntimtr of prisoners In tlio last fort-
1 Jht nt 10,1)00, xvhllo despiitchra from
n rnmt say that upward of S.000 of
'e have been taken In tho last two
)'. wlin Combles, Thiepvnl, tlueudc
urt, Morval. I.esbocufs and other
I'-fs fell. In fumbles the Ilrltlsh cup-ir-1
1 xoft rttles, four liquid ll.mio
trrs and much ammunition. Tho
.rich also got much booty.
Th HiltlHli statement to-night fol-
lit 'silent progress was mada to-day
or. th battle front. North of Piers
vur irivips carried further enemy
iei on a front of ",O0u yards ami
now level with the cast side of
I. rr vurt T bbaye.
Thee his bieii (lercc lighting north
'i!' of Thleivj, in the course of
"led our troop stormed and now
'I'l an enemy work known us the
sniff Kedoubt, on the 'main ridge 2,000
)Ms northeast of the village.
More than l.OO rltles, four tlam-mnwerf.-r
and many thousand rounds
if rtillery ammunition and grenades
taken In Combles, where our
a 's ,'iImj made largo captures of
matert.it.
10,000 Prlaonrr Tnkrn,
The prisoners taken In tho last two
lijs lighting bring the total for the
up'-ritiotis of the last fortnight to
II. 000.
T'ne Trench statement says:
North of tho Homme, after violent
rtlllery preparation, the enemy
lvni... d a ttrong attack against our
iw positions from Houchavesiies to
mith of the Hois l'Abbe farm. In 11
brilliant counter offensive our tnxips
net the enemy waves of assault, which
"r( thrown back In disorder. After
Ir.nVnns heavy losses on tho tlerinans
" car.tured '.'50 prisoners, Including
i.i ulll'rrs. We also took eight rna-
1 ri guns.
W iippre-Mably extended our prog
" to tho east and southeast of Han
""in and penetrated tho St. I'lerrp
Vaast Wood,
Tie fbrtian ofllclal statement to-day
Mm" t.nt Thlcpv.il has fallen, but say
of.lng ..f f'ombleF. It reports that al
'I ntt.11 ka have been beaten back. It
nays j
rtny rroup of Prince lltipprecht nf
rtdiHria Tim battle north of the
s'"0ine continued with exceedingly
'urn nrlillery tlghtlng aucl vigorous
lrfanriy engagement. The salient
''"lie ,,f Thlepval was lost. On both
i'li of Coiircelette tho enemy, after
"rite, failures which cost him largo
M.itn iinally gained ground.
Il ml to llnnil KIkMIiik.
Turriier in the east the enemy was
' P'ilxd, Tho enemy was unabbi In
Jtl'iid the siii'i'ess of September 2R,
'il'iivna tho oieiiiiHllon of tho vil
IK" of liueudeeourl. Violent hostile
" "I. from Lis Itoeufs mid along
' ' In.nt 110 in .Morval to 11 point south
' H ill' li iwsliei wero lepulsed with
it i los.ei for tho enemy, partly In
''""I to Hand liglitlug.
s-'iitl, f thu Momnie P'reiuh hand
tf iiiol, ntliii kH near Yt imandovlllciH
""I '"'.in .1 f-illed.
"i' Sipleniber ITi ami 2 six hostllii
"ri.pl.n,,., ,.r h) a,.,.a
J'riii!..,iii ms on tho Homme. Another
ml down yesterday in tho
r "'ll lngne,
hi iln air the Allies aro still on tho
"tr ix.., raiding I it rm.tr) coininunlca-nn-
.Mi. I driving down tho aircraft that
, I" Mop llitiii, Thu b'r h ivport
"x rig down m (Jernvtii kltn ba.
" 11 rio aeroplane", while Iho
11 t' h l it-Ktd eleven iit'ioplaues and
" : ntilooiis. In thu last Ihno days
. Coiillitucd on Second Page,
CHEAPER FOOD ASKED
BY GERMAN CENTRISTS
Party Convention Also Dc-1
nianils tin Increase in I
Production.
lltliLls-, via l.nnclon, Sept. 2 (Thitrs
day). A reduction In the prices of food
stuffs nml iin Increase In tlio food pro
duel Ion wero "especially demanded" bi
lbo national convention of tbo Centrist
party at It nntbltclehstag session meet
ing in i ranurort on Main.
Tho convention pissed a reiolutlon
snylng that -of the imperial authorities
wo must especially demand that the
Itiotdlnatcly high price bo reduced to
a lavel corresponding with tlio means of
tlio consumer and that care be taken to
provldo for Increased production of the
necessities of llfo, especially by tho aboli
tion of nil measures that hamper pro
duction." The party member, everywhere In Ocr
many wero tiMed to subscribe to tho war
loan, thereby showing their confidence In
tho future of tho empire and a determi
nation to win tlio vvar.
The convention nto iih. .v.- t
01 ttome kitnl of im Imperial organization
In prepare economically for tho transition
from 11 war to n peace basis. i
Ur. von llethmann-llollwer. imnn id
oinbllnr of tho ltelchstait to-morrow,
will make no wctisatlonal variations of
bin previous utteiancrn. Concerning
peace, tho quetlon tnobahly will b
touched upon wlthmt more explicit lan
Kuaeo than was used previously.
GREECE DECIDES TO
JOIN THE ENTENTE
I
rx-i.r.. .a. i t.j -t t
X-II ill ill-1 Ml Itl.'MII. lit'ItVlll
Kin;? Free to Aet, l.on-
1 don Hears.
I.0.M10.V. Sept. ;s (Thursday). The
Greek Council of Ministers has decided
In agreement with King Constantino
upon military cooperation with the lln
tcntc Allies, says a lietiter despatch
from Athens dated Wednesday, This Is
taken to mean that dreccc I. ,1, last to
enter tho war.
Tho Kalogeronoulos Cabinet, which 1
was not fivore.i ,x- th mm.. 1. .
. ... . .
siho ui u.ice, ami ning lunntantine is tu
IjMUC It nrnclatnnlliiii ti thn tiatlnn nn. '
cording to a wireless despatch 'from '
AthcriM dated Wednes.lay
A secret council of the King with the
(Jermnriophllc. lien. Doujinaiil. ex
cliler of the t.reek Oeneral Staff,
M. Strelt, was hehl as soon as
. i.onstitmme reached Athens from his
I summer palace at Tatol. queen Seiphia,
sister of the Kaiser, was present.
Tho reported decision fur military col
laborations with the Ihiteiito Is salel to
f have been the outcome, of a conference!
between the King, lo.x.il getiornls and the
I King's closest ailvisers, during which he
promlscel that he would sign a tb-crte for
a general inobollzatlou before fuimer
lYemler VeuUelos'l.a time to rt.ach i
Saloiiica.
enl.elos.
nded at Canea, I
. was given an !
HI, OHO (irrrl Ve
Venlzelos, who landed
r ....(.. n.ii..u.t ... i,.n.nin..
..niiiu'wli.ii,. ' ..,i'.. i
being escorted
.,.ii. i..,'.i.........i
by 10,000 Cretans through beilagged
streets. Ho declarisl that lie was mak-
els. Ho declareel that lie was mak-
Ills last appeal t the. King. "I ex- i
ss the: lmpo Unit at the last moment 1
trig his last appeal t tho King. "I ex-
press
the King will conform to thu wishes of
tho nation nml the people," be sahl.
The territory now under the domina
tion of M. Venlzelos, sa.v s a despatch
from Athens, Includes the whole of
l '.reek Macedemla nnd llplrus. and also
Crete. Chios, Mitylene ami Saiuos.
It Is learned that communication be
tweerr tho King atiel M, V. tilzelos Ims,
itlre-ady been establlsheet through the
former Minister of War. (ien. Yanakll-'io
sas, ttnel that the outlook Is favorable, !
for nn early arrangement nt tho dltll-
cultlen at piesent dlvlellng ejnece. The
greatest blow- to King Constantino lias
been the departure) or Admiral Con.
douiiotls, commanding the navy, who,
after the seiverelgn. Is the most distill-1
gulshed national hero.
M. xciiUelo.s Is believed to have forcer)
the King's hanil by his action In placing
himself at the head of the pro-Ally re-
volt niiel by tho strength of his In-
lluence his nilhere nts, Including most of
tbo army nnel part of the navy, as well
as Admiral Coiulnuiiotls and Uen. Mos-
choploulos commanding the Greek Gen-,
eral Staff.
'
....in .mien r rrri,
As to the Greek navy, a Healer
despatch from Athens says that the hat-
tlcshlp Hydra has Joined the allied licet,
There Is a report that the battleships
spetrai nnu I'snra and four Greek de
stroyers have also jolneel the Amrlo
French naval forces In the Meeliter
ranenn commanded by Vlcc-Admlrnl du
Fournct.
l'lemter Kalogeriipoulns is repotted
to have mado the following declaration
to a corrcsponelent at Athens after n
conference with King Constantino on
Tuesday morning!
"The Cabinet can only await the re
ceipt of the Kntento's demands. It would
! futile to rearrange tho constitution
of the Ministry without knowing whether
torch alteration would prove satisfactory.
Wo ale prepared, us we have, alnavs
been, to met t any desires nf the Kn
tente In tho most rorillal uplrlt of co.
operation, but wo cap scarcely bo ex
pected let nnlde by tho Fntentc's wishes,"
A despatch fiom Paris says that the
revolt In Crete Is ppi ending veiy fast
turning Greek troops. Four thousand sol
diers at ( anea have joint! the revolt.
ami only a colonel, a few other officers ,
nnel iweniy-nvei men rcmiiiu loyal to
King Constantino,
23D N. Y. TO RETURN HOME.
It Will lie Neil He Kline nt Uridine,!
From lloriler Duty.
San Antoniii, Ti'X., Sept, The
Twenty-third New York Infantry, now
In the llrownsvillo district, will be tho
next regiment nieaseil from bonier duty,
Gen, Fuiislon Imlieateel to. night after ho
bin received notice iroui tlm war Dc-
partme nt that il.OOii morn guardsmen hud i
been orilered to the borelvr.
toe eiioit, ix i. o in iu en 1 1 1, a i.e n ii
It would bo practicable for tbo Southern
Disiartmeiit lo release the Twenty-thlrd
Gen. Funston took un allirmatlvo view
of thu matter.
Ilr. IIIUiiIiIp Ner .ltlnlslrr In I'. S.
Gi'avaqi'ii., FiMlador. Se-pt. 27. Dr.
Ilafai'l II. i;ilz.tltle, Secretary of Foreign
Affairs ill tho recent Cabinet, has been
appointed i;ctiadoiian Minister tu Wuuh-Ingtun.
30,000 STEEL HANDS
OUT TO HEAR HUGHES
.
pn,iM,itn vtnta Tin,.
in rittHlmrff Willi Speech
Before 0,0(10.
m.TTJTUrn lii'T ttt'VO tti'. Urnus- vla London). Th
Afl(l.MI'J, Id 1 Llkhb IT J Ueilln newspapers to-day are acclaiming
I enthusiastically the arrival of tho Ocr-
, I . . , , - ... ,
WllCl roilltS Of Addresses in
Other Cities Hritipr Cheers
From Crowds.
I'lTTslifiwi. Pent. 57. Charles V.
Hushes e.irrle.l i.im i-h,,,,-.!.,,. it i ....,. '
svlvimli i .t..,. .. i ii. .. i ..in.
Jivnm.i to.dny on the high speed, with ,
io sanio driving power ho exerted In ,
li.co!isIn, Illinois, Indiana and Ohio.
Krom tho beginning of tho dav In 1
Plit.t.nrn. ...1.1. .1 1. . .1 . '. .
111 . K
01 "l0 .Monongahela alloy 11ml ,
speeches before .10.000 milt bands, to Its
end to-night with 1111 address before
fi nrtn ........... 1. . 1.1 . ,
o.uuo persons in imposition Hall, he
needed ccry ounce of hU energy nnd
endurance.
It was elay , test the Maying powers
of any man, with tle speeches, four of
them In tho open air, with the review
of 11 cheering turnout of western Tenn -
sylvanla Itepubllcans on parade, with
the Incessant blast and din and shriek of
sirens and steam whistles, nnd with'
scventy-tlve miles of taclng progress in I
automobiles that t.cornid less than forty .
miles an hour.
He spoke before the steel mill workers
at Homestead, Huciuesiie, McKcesport
and Wllmerdlng. and In th's city to-night
made IiIh tioxv to 40.000 massed In the
stre'ets when he went to Imposition Hall,
and shook hands nt x.uious receptions
.. CltlMlIX lltllllll. l( till, Villi. IL.rlll,l '
tnd stopping places with perhaps .'.,VU0.
rxv I'll nil f t'niiltilPnt r.
He accumulateil a coating of I'lttsburg
talcum which the baths of several days
may with dllllculty remove, but he ac
cumulated also, and ohviou-tv, a new
fund of contldcnce after his observation 1
of the attitude of tho crowds and his
conettf:it,oi.s with the leaders of the re
unlted par ty Senators Tenruse and
I,-Ill.... III. 11 1...... XX'IIIImii.
ninuand Alexander" Wiu.
From tho ennvd ho gathered that
reiinslvanl.i I- Koine siren; for m.ro-
itectlve taiiiT and a llrm foreign policy,
eiooi 10.1 u-.ui.ie. .un. t.v.i.iu.. iiwin
Mr. Fllim. he beettd that !i per tent.
nf 1Vtmv1V!iti1nH 1 'i'tiLrrt si vt nrn noitiir
vote the Itepubllcan ticket. ..ml thai
E,,fcl' 'iKU,e 0,1 " P'uralit or
ov.vvv.
It w.i.s well on toward n o'clock tn-
i n'ht when Mr. Hughes, somewhat re
freshed from the dirt and clamor and first time London hsd ever borrowed out
, . iiush of one of the mtfl trying exper- s)dc of Great I'.rltaln Paris a'jeo never
lences a Presidential canilldnte ever bad.
warned iruo i-ixposmon nan nini snoxveo
his bet Hinlle to the crowd of iV0.
Tliev went to their feet with a fine shout 1
of welcome, a shout v.ith :i resounding In part os follow: I Contracts for 7 rfto ,., f mlk to be
ring In It. and one of t!.o bet-t ovatle.ns 1pcu & -.,. aI1,10Un. e that they .!.;v, ,, New York dally have bee.,
.,UBlMilttnl,rrolntU'! have close,! a negotiation with the city c-i.tracted for thus ,.,r thre.ugh his tb
" , .... .mmiimh ,ixe x,...r f. er I'',rtiiient ly sma.l .llstr.b.iteiH In this
m'-st of the noti.ble tlgures of the Peiin-
sylvanla i!, O. P. and the Pennsylvania
lie initieii in ine tH.iiiinoi
ITogresslve party wero sitting side l.y
h(,t. ,(nji looking re ally happy abtnit It.
There was no doubt, se. mliigly. as to the
composition of tlie uud'ciite, prrt ohl
lime Tleiiutillinii.iinrt Ho. K veltlan Pro-
'lime iteiiuiincnn, iiari no. f-evciiiait tro-
rie.-slve. for tho rbe-eis i.ie In eeiu .1
rre.-sive. for tho rbe-eis rose In equ .1
volume when tho naine .s e.f national IlK-
ro. lt..-iubll.-aii or Progressive. ltnoe. ,
v-'lt or Knox, were Hung out to waiting
volume when tlio nanu s e.f national UK-
nf. He.-mbll.-aii or Progressive. l!ooe-,
entliutlasm
1
II. .1. Ileitis f'tinlrmnn
The chairman of the meeting, which
put the climax atop the whole1 Pittsburg
rally for llu-his, was It, J. llelnz, who
has poimthliig more than a local reputa
tion as a m.intifaeiuier eif pickles, both
sweet anil sisir. lie restrained Iflmsedf
notably in point if time nnd gave way
Mr. Hisihes. with tho remark that the
States of tlie I'nloii seem now to be com-
petlng ns to which will give Mr. Hughes
the largest Plurality
Mr. Hughes ufte'r two minutes of jt imiletstood that n syndicate Sharon.
cheering salel lie rather thought the com-' ,v t,n formed soon and that the bonds ' The new claimant, through I'nunsel,
petition hail to elo with how much or his will bo offered to the American public, j declared lie was adopte-el when S
voice each State ciild obtain, but that It s pointed out that aside from his In- yeats old, lie was not mentioned In the
, ked the suggestion in Mr. llelnz'i teiest on tlie bonds tlie purchaser Mauds . w ill.
comment. Fir 110 ti.'.vt hour he gave to u chance of making from per cent, to I Tho principal heirs named in the will
Pittsburg the points of the addresses liojil'.j per cent, on the transaction In eise i are Mrs. Frederick W Sharon, the
tbilvereel in the larger cities of the cur-' franc exchange reaches par by tho time widow: Laily Florence) Kmlly Former
rent tour. He paid to Philander C. the loan matures. This vvoulil amount Heskoth of Fnglauil, a sister, and the
Knox, who Is a candidate for tin1 Fnlted to a profit of 3.000,')00 or more on the children e.f Senator Francis New binds
stiles Senate to su cieel lieorge. T. loan. f Nevada, whose wife was a stcr of
tilher, as hainlsomi' it eeniiplliiieiit as ho Paris bonds have always sold nt a. Sli.uou. Shar.n elid July IS, IJir..
extended the other night to Myron T. high price and previous to the vvar were! The Sharon estate not. established be
Derrick In Ohio, saying that Mr. Knox quoted on a par with the bond" of the , the- late Fulled States Senator William
..u .....Ai.,rx. ,.r Ki:.i.. ..remix. .Iluiil (led French I lopuhlle. Outside of this loan Sharon of Ne vada, father of Pieil. m..i
ll;U ncl i,.,se,i Mx ,.ntlro adelress
on the poi-itlou that ho speaks for the
future prosperity and security or inn
whole people and not tneiely for the sue-
cess oMhe llepiibllc.iii party
Ho paraeltel tho Administration's
liroken promb'es In single llle and made'
......I, mi,, in trr .I'll,, f.ir tli.i 1 ti i-t. t r nt 1
tile Jeeilng of tho crowd national ex-
travaganc.., betrayal of American rights
on l.inil nun sea, neirayni 01 tne iiteni
for sjioll
claims
out that
good In
saved th
l.oi lion tho Administration was forcesl
to rely on tlie Ahlrlch-Vreeland art, and
tluit iho coi.il snots of tho Federal re. i
serve act were put there by a Itepubll-
cut monetary ceimnilsslon.
IlUcnases lexicon Problem .
He denli'il that the McAdno shipping
bill was an nil! to business, saying that
on tho contrary It would bu veiy In
jurious to the wholo shipping Industry.
Uu r,etiet Democratic nsseitlons about
ruj,, - Pnelerwooel taiilT, Itiiiling that In.
Vimd of nldlne business It closed fa...
It
lories nml threw hundreds nf thousands .
of ineii idle Into tho stieels Just before
llle liiiroiieaii war creaieit a temporary
demand for American products, He saw
no merit In thn President's parade of
Iho Federal child labor act, saying (lie
staies wiiicit pieserve i-iniei laoof nr ,
tlio Stales firmly under Democratic con
trol, Coming lo the Mexican problem, he re-
new od his chat go that Woodrow Wilson
vinluteil International law ami American
.i ein, .inn i.n i...i,n..,i in vt,..i..
C, wnB0 ,,ersonal war ugnlnst Huertn.
,,,, ,IB)(e, lr Mr, 'se.n wonh! have so
;u.tei toward great nnel powerful States,
., ,.,in,umneil the Wilson policy as one.
vx It limit Justification nnd one that had
got us Into grave trouble, and be prom.
Ised to tin what Wilson, he salt), had
not done protect American Uvea and
pioprriy In Mexico and In every other
country.
Ills declaration for evnir.igenus Amcr
tuiilun which followed produced n
Co nil n tied on Fourth Page,
s He turiii'il to tho extravieont young pei'inu oe-ixxri-o no- .im.- .m nn - m.i
s. in lurutit to in" . xttax ii,.iiii , "... , ,...t. .. .....a... tin mouth of the Yukon. lirnoL. hi .,...r..
nf the Admin stratlou, point ng " je.un so..u .m w - ,,,., i.ir.oonn in ...,i.i . t , , 1. n i, V ...
t th" Federal reserve art. while ' al stipplementai-y bread cards entitling ban .r,o,i oiu n ml, dust. IJ 11, .an.
n,..K wn ''' o ! gamines per head per k;;r nin fe. fie.,., -"'w district at
e country from panic In 10H. ''ok. '.,..,;; ,.,.' ..".s....
berun fooled by report
Bremen has arrived here
German Newspapers Enthusiastically Announce Dock
ing of Submarine at New London, but She's
Not at Any United States Port.
"""" """marine liiemen ut Now London.
The Connecticut town has Jumped to a .
, point of prime Interest, and the news-1 succeeded In making n home port wun
papers lmo found It necessary to do- j out "'"'terlUB the Ilrltlsh licet.
scrlbo Its situation by the uld of maps.
1 Tho 1103 of tho llreincii relieved tho
protracted tension, which bad crown In
tense as th.x expected arrival of the sub
marine was delayed from week to week.
Apparently authentic ruinoi had been 111
.n..uI,,0 lUui ,,ie nmiun ,,,11,.,! early ,
In August. Ileneo fears wero entertained
In mine quarters that i-omethlriB bad
Ku"c wr"n with her, and the teport of , lunching tho Uerman cupllal.
lCr arrival ban been greeted by the New London, Baltimore nml Norfolk
newspapers as paving the way for tliomc been reported an the destination of
establishment of n regular submarine
service between Germany nml the Prilled
States. hd us answering the alleged
""'i v,. io. in., r. fii.iiu.n ,nii tn.
nutniiwrlne Dcutschland leturned home 1
from her nynrn oxerseas, "You can't
jdo It ngaln."
.ff 'T
Hrenien, who was for a long time In tlie (
serlce of the North Herman l.loyd
1 Steamship Company. He nerved for
f''J Kicr Wllhelm tier Crosse
1 - -
lVVV
CITY OF PARIS HERE
- T . O i. .
Kllllll, l.O('l) AT 0. AlTailU'e
Transat'tion, Money Not to ,
lie I'.sed for War.
Kuhn, I.oob A Co. announc.-.'! yester-
" ' ' , '
liO.ftOO.nuo to the city of Paris. The
1. ... 1.. , ..I.
' 7" J" , - 1. ",' I, .
J , f "T . , .
Hal. the building of l.rpila's. the r-npport
of the wounded nnd the unemployed ami
mo relict oi w luows auu oriiiian-.
Tho loan marks nmitluT stexp I" the
Progress of American financing In an In-
ternallon.il wax. t-cvrrai vxeess ago a
smaller loan was nrrariBCJ inr me .xutiii-
c'jial Water llo.trd of London. It being the
K.rctfore bad sought to borrow funds
.
u"lde or ! ranee.
The statement regarding the loan was
.
c.rjt. bond. This Kin "';'' '' '
linburse the city for Paris for be.iv.x e-
peneiiuircjt maein ror ine tiuexi ive.o ...
suffering cursed by the war ami to pre..
vide for similar expenditures and for
other municipal jiurpewn.
"Tho principal anil Interest of the
i no prim-ipoi .ion on
bonds are paablo. at the
bonds are pav able .. at the optle.ti e.f the
holder, eltln - In Fulteil Sti
In New York or In 1. it Is
tlie tlxnl ra.e of pel
noiner. eiiiie- in i iiio o .--i.iies K..... ......
in New 1 ora or in an..
ine iixe it ra.e ot ..." i'.-i uuu.n, nm-
(giving to ine nonier u. prospeei i... .
substantial nrollt In exchange, as the
normal rate of exchange before! tl.e war
was about 5.1s francs per dollar.
The (iovt rninerit of the French I.e.," '" ' 1 '"r .-nnrr in
rmblli1 Is to undertake to furoMi. If sue-
essary, let the xity of Pails gold in tin1'
amount needed to permit the p.i merit ef .
the principal and InUiest of tho loan ill
New Yeirk."
.Members of the llrm of Utirui, l.oen f.
on,i,,slze.l that the loin was not to
,. ()tn0ted to war purpo-e. anil that
throughout tho war thev hail kept rleir
,,f nil linaneing of belligerents on either
Paris lias no exterior iiiin-nieuness.
Msvnr PPTATI VMl THT, YOTTNR
MUKi. JiniWVlJ iUH. inte IUUU.
(ierninn llnrvest .uraii i.orii nitti n
llnlf .More n WeeU.
LonpoN. Sept. "7, lleuler's Aimt..
dam correspondent (ends the follow tug
"T'. .. .. . . . ..i..j .
The additional allowance of bread, .'.00
grammes (about fourteen and one. half
ouncesl. Is equivalent tei one ami one-
hair or orelinary live vein loaves as sotu
in New York.
WOMEN POLITICIANS IN ROW.
Wilson Supporters llrenk V Merl
ins In Sipoknne.
Spoi:.vni:. Sept. 27. More than one
hundreil women affiliated with tho Pom-
ocratlc narty stormed it meeting under1
the auspices of the Woman's party nnd
ntlcr necKling me spi'titu'is oni.inii ii cnu- -
trol of tlio meeting. A woman's nou-
partisan club "for Wilson was formed In
tlio meeting room arid olllcers were .
chosen.
Tho meeting was called by Miss Agncw I
Campbell and Miss Julia llurlbut. or-1
g.tnlzers of tlio Woman's parly, from tho
Fast. The arguments became so bitter
that several women appealed "to tlm
better womanhood" of the debaters.
Two llrltUli onicers llrlcnrd.
Major Arthur S. Humphrey and Hugh
Lovlck. Jr., Ilrltlsh army officers, who
arrived on Monday by tho Cututrdcr
Saxonla from Liverpool mid wero held !
up at the request of the State Depart-
iiiont. wero released from Kills Islaml I
yestetday. It wns decreed that they hail
not been guilty or violating any neu
trallty rule. They went to tho Hotel
Itelmunt and will proceed later to Vic
toria, Ilrltlsh Columbia.
ami distinguished himself In rescue work
III thu Hohokcu pier llro In IJnw. Capt.
Sehwartzkopff wa Mint ottlcer of the
rrltii! Frlodrloh Wllhrlm when the war
lirokB 1)Uti ,rhe M,.lllncr os then ut
Spltzbrrgcn on n polar excursion, but
.Not at Any flitted Mutes Port.
There have been rniiiiy reports of the
expected arrival of thu merchant sub
marine, lliemeu at vnilou ports on thn
Atlantic most leceiilly, but tip tn the
present sho has not docked nt any of
them. The iinnounrenient of her nrilviil
printed In Uerlln probably resulti.l from
uno of these many picinaluio reports
the Hremon. Itoccritlv them has been
riiurh activity It New London by of.
H. Ial.s of the Cistern I ni wauling Com
i.io,, .xooiicaii uKenin inr ine xicriiian
merchant submarines. A rrpoit from
Westerly, I. I., September '.'" said it
tug had left there to meet a Clerrnnn
1," '
Tho Uerlln depatctt npptrently Is
coullrinntoiy of the icpoils that the
llremcu sailed for the t'nlted States
i.r.d that she Is now due here,
- rr
NO MILK ON SUNDAY
lo.OOO Members of Dairymen's
League to Slop Supply
les Price Is ltuied.
SrriACfsi:, N. V., Sept. 27. Albert
.Manning, secretary or tlic Htale l-alry-
nienV League. aseited here Mstcrdav
... ... ....
"V T" " '". lK "
" ""rtierw ami tne
Sh. I1I.M Farm-, will be able, to obtain
,-, ntract.s for nipplies alter Sunday un-
less they agree to the
Incteaseel prices
set by tlie league.
Mr. Manning dtclaie-d that the thirty
four counties which ship milk to New
ork are firmly boiiml to ttie; league.
lb foro (lctulx-r 1. be said, SOO.oOO tow.
the- property of 1.',.iiimi dairymen attlltateel
with tbo league, will be under that boely s
unit ret.
"We've gelt tlm large companies bot
ileel up," bo said. "I don't know whore
el-e they could get nny milk."
, :iy. accorel nc lei foMiMini.ii,..r loin, i
luil.',,, of the Stole Department o'f .-,i'
M.lrkol ,,.,. k ... ,, ,
after October 1 liy un State dairv f irm,
, ,n , tMU f-ltlm,,v , vvbi.lt is t'l.ou-
one t. nt men., tiiau ih. y'ge.t a ear tgei
This quantity of mil. 2o.ieoo eiuiirts
win ne pasteiir.zeel in tit. fiintij, Mr.
I ..l.on sas. and t.-prese1 is rie.t far fieiui
II per e-e-t. of tlio total amount con
sumed In tins c;y ,vtry day
$2,650,000 ESTATE HELD UP.
v ....
Mlinrmi Fortune
S.VN- Fn.vNCISc.1. Sept ITA hitherto
uiieonsliler.d claimant halli'il nn di
'r.hutioii of the- il.i'.riO.ntni Shareen est it.1
here te-day. Tho estate was erne nf iln..
acciiniulatiil in the early mining d.ixs.
' r.elerlck Uallaie Sharon, n travelling
sab'sinan eif Ta eima, clnlmetl it share u
nrr ndopted son of Frederick William
William Sharon, who took a fortune out
of the old t'eimstock lodu and San Fran
lis o real estate.
$1,000,000 GOLD FROM NOME.
.Ien in sit I It A leleirln Arrives nt
Sen lilt- Willi Precious (nruo.
Sii.vtti.i:. Sept. '.'7. The steamshh
v..n.iii ieelve.1 m..ln. fi.nn v...
on the Victoria worn txvcntv -four SI
bcilan wolf dogs ami nialamides, each
travelling on a passenger ticket. Sonioeif
the dogs will go to Franco for service
wltli tl.o mountain armies.
WHAT IS CITY'S SOOT FALL?
Sinol.e Prevention Fxprrls nv It's
.More Iniiiorllint 'Ih nn ltttlii,
St. Lofts, Mo Sept, 27. A scientific,
slndy of nlmospherlc pollution by smoke
xx.is lllKi'O em ine .Vllioua! Mllolio Pre
xeuthni Convention lieiee to-day i,y ,hu
t e i minor, jr., or llle l illverslty of Pitts,
buig, Soon, bo said, the question of
soot fall in it city will bo ctnisleli.re'il as
niorn Important than that of the raln-
i.iii or icinpii-.iiiire,
It Is tho illlfused smoke, he said, that
decreases, sunlight, prolongs fogs, i-tai-,.s
the giuwHi of vegetation, ilestro.vs build.
ing material and Is lujuil'uis to health,
llrabniiiller lln Another Vllalmp,
NilvvpoiiT Nkvvh. Va,, Sept, 27. Tho
Ilrltlsh steamer llr.ibaniller, en route lor
Hull, wcul ngioiiiid In Hampton Ho.nls
lo-elav. It appears doubtful If she can
no uoaieti uniii per cargo is Jctllsiiiud
""' Urabandler was In collision wiih tho
'V'" 'J51'1" steamer Steiislatiil otf thn
trltili (J-I,CN vvhllo coming to this pott,
and tho Stensland hux been libelled for
aii,uieu us a resun.
flREAT IIKAR rVI BINn WATFR.
A4v" CJ" X va" ,uf"'ri;d bottlra.
.....i :iiui xx m or t ie ivovokiik ii sii- .o i
MARTINE HELD UP
AS WILSON NEMESIS
Jersey 0. 0. P. Figures Sena
tor's Victory ns I'rcsaf'in'r
President's Dcfcnt.
WESCOTT LOSES 11 Y 10.000
Irish and Germans a liiirsjc!
Factor in "Farmer Ora- t
tor's' Triumph. ,
Nciv Jersey politician figured yester
day that Fnlted States Senator James j
II. Martlrie's lii.OOO plurality oer At-turnpy-rjencr.il
John W. Wescott In the
Democratic contest for the 'nomination ;
for Culled States Senator nt Tuesday's ,
statewide primaries was a rebuke tn
tho national Administration, which set
In motion the machinery designed to (
bilng about thu "fanner orator's" do
feat. Ibpubllcins professed to see In Mar-
tlne-'tt sttcciiing victory a determination j
on tho part of a lxrge element tn lb
I'oinocratlc p.irty to register again on
election day their disapproval nf 1'resl-
dent Wilson. Democrats admitted openly;
that tho quiet support width the White
House gave Wescott nnd Its skill In :
lining up tho Democratic organizations
In various counties for h!in xere factors
III making Marline the popular favorite.
The i.ti.k and llle were not so tre- i
nu tidoii-ly Interested in honoring "I'.ir-1
trier Jim." Democratic niitklans said, '
as they weie in teaching the national
Administration the les. that It had
Ho biilllss to butt into tlie piriy's
Slate affairs. Furthermore, the ques
tion of "a squ. ire deal" wtus at stake,
arid there was no reason, they deiMtred,
why .Martini wasn't entitled bv party
usage to a reiioinltialion simply be
cilise he got Independent at fines ;nnl
mi'.iI in opposition to the Presidents1
Wishes.
Iris
It mid (ierninn telle.
It was very ev blent tint the lr.h
and German voter- in the. party mixv 1
a iliaiice to register their dislike for
President WH'on by voting against the
man who xv.is considered the Adminis
tration candidate. This Is hown bx
Iin1 heavy .Marline vote p, sections
where Irishmen and Germans nre nu
ll, eroiis.
Thorn were, many, pot pulltielans, xxho
elo-'aie.l that Martin1 was lealiy more
popular tn th' I e. ineieratu1 rank's than
the Wh't. Hun... had tlreatned. Much
of this l.oitarlty. they s.tld, was due to
Ids habit of refusing , . i( lie xxas told
In the matter of Administration meas
ure. It in known that effective team
work for the "farmer orator" was done
by nvnml ticca representing various lilh
rtiiil German organizations In tho pre
Primary rnmpatgn.
As for Muittno himself he went on a
handshaking fur thr..iighojt the state,
tilling Dciimciais that he haeln't nny
aieolotry to off. r for n ..Inglo Senatorial
act ami that be. would do tho satin, things
over again If ho l.ael n chance. The
fact that be Isn't any slouch of a cam-'
patgner is borne- out by tlio returns.
'.n tiiierlcini Victory." '
Joliri D. Moore, na'i'Mi.il secret. trv nf
tho Fr'etiel.s ..f ti,Mi Fr. e.il im, tne.nit.ers
of which vvt.rl.eil side by i,!o with Ger
man Amerl. 'ms for Martlne op prlmarv
d iy, made, vosterelty the following state",
iiie'i.t that aflorils much food for thought
ien the part of lotn..crts xe, tl fr,,
th it Pres.elcut Wlison has a thatice to
titiry h!s own boili" S'.ate In the Novem
ber e le ctle.n :
"The Wllson-Wescntt Wate rleio I" an I
American victory, won by leal Amerl-'
cans of Irish nml German blood. It s
not tm!y a defeat for President Wllnni.
but It Is a ief,,t for th sinister pro
Hng'lsh Interest, who for obvious rea- '
sons rianu so solidly in-hind him.
t "We- are now so organized that the
triumph of Senator .Martlne., a pro
American, Indicates precisely what Is
going 'o happeii,n eve-ty debatable Stif.c
I next November, ami evciy .'.iit.llil.it
who believes that American neutrality
consists In silently eniliirlng Fngllsii
1 aggressions on land and sea will do well
to watch Ins step '
"President Wilson Insulted every i
, American of lrl--h bteiod when he iimltg'. I
n.intly coined tin- xxoul ii.x plieri.tte' at
the dedication of the- I'oniiiiodori- Itatrv
. inouumcnt tllleo jeais ago, lie has nr-'
1 tioiiteel them In a hunelied wajs since1
, then. ,
i 'Tliliorfoil Irish Hex olitllon." ,
1 "Ills Ailmliilstrttloii basely tlnvailcd
the plans of tin1 Irish revolution In April
by be-tiaylng to Ihiglaml the shipment .
of German arms Into Ireland. Only a
f.-xv weeks ago he pciioltted llnglaiiil .
until .vniericau pasports nml tleport
Thomas Hughes Kelly and Josi ph Smith,
lepiesenting the Irish relief fund When
, ho failed lee tic font Senator M, mine's,
I C isemeiit resolution nml It was passed'
over his beael he suppressed t until
after Sir Hoge'r I'aseini'nt was dead,
"only jcstfidiiy em his way tn the
primary Hie New Jersey voter load the
ihanieftll story of the secret taking over
of I'lnio Sam's foreign malls by the ,
New York munitions ring and Sir Hlch-1
i aril Crawfeinl of iho lliillsli llinbassy. '
Anil then he nctcil, i
"Now the Pie'sltlent finds himself in,
the pitiful plight of seeing Ills own can-:
tlitl.it.1 In his own Stale1 smothered by a
'2 to 1 vote, mid his dream that Amor- i
I lea hail again hi'i'intm Kngllsh has been '
thoroughly shntlereel, Tho end Is iieit
vet. for tho spirit of 1 7 7 1 Is the spltlt,
nf 1D1C."
.Itiirtliie lliprrsse III .toy,
Maitllio was exceedingly luippy es.
terelay when lie was Interx lowed at his
homo In Plalulliid.
"I am tlioroiuhly gralllleel, and con
sider tho nomination a triumph, consid
ering the opposition I bad from tho or
ganization," I.e sahl, "With u very few
exceptions the local press was against
me, and even the press nf New Yen It has
held mo up to ridicule whenever possible.
I was fully conildenl of winning tronr
the outlet, for my couiso from tho be
glimlng lias been one of conscientious,
ness and honeety."
In Hudson county, where thn Demo
emtio machine Is split Into sections, Mar
line lecelvrd a lotul of 2:',or.O votes, or a
p!lliallt of 111. 121i over Wescott It wits
Hie. Hudson Demeicr.icy Ihal ninth Mar.
line I'nlte-el sillies Senator by making
him a taniliilatii in the piefeiential
primatli'.s In l'.HU, Jus t lor tho Joke of
the thing,
Tho sequel tn that Joke, which re.
suited III Hie political downfall of (.x.
Tullce! States Senator James Smith, who
ti.lil the then Gov, Wilson that tin- noml.
nation war n't to be taken seriously,
Coiitliiiixif on I'uurth Page,
DIAMOND QUEEN, ONCE
m m m w WW dM. aBMWUWW I
Celia Whipple Wnllnce, Who
finvo $320,000 to Charity,
J 2 Years in Cottage.
Nr.w IIavem, Conn., Sept. 27. Cella
Whlpplo Wallace, onco famous as the
"diamond queen of Chicago," who gave
J3J0.U00 In charities In ono year and
was known for tho gorgeous Jewels she
wore, has lived f jr twelve years the
llfo of a rccluso nt Savin Rock. Onco
tho friend of Hetty Orocn nnd Susan H.
Anthony, giving lavishly to every char
ity, sho "hasn t enough to buy a tnuslo
box now," ns sho puts It.
Mrs. Wallace disappeared mysteri
ously twelve ears ago In tho height of
her career ns a philanthropist and
society woman. The most diligent
search for her failed to b.-lng results
and It was generally believed that the
must bo dead. To-day her friends found
her.
Instead of tho brilliant figure, sho was
I" fore, with her irlcelesi collection of
diamonds, they found her a bent, sober
little woman In n shabby cottage at
Savin Hock, a suburb and amusement
place of New Haven. She lias lived
there for twelve .xears without ever seek
ing to meet her fi lends of the pa.st.
She calmly admits her Identity and
I tiighs away remonstrances for her vol
t.ntary litmiltago.
"Vx by. 1 haven't enough to buy a music
bov now." sho suld.
Mrs. Wallneo came fiom old New
Cugl.tlid stock. Sim was the daughter
of Dr. Thomas Whipple of New Hamp
shire. Sho married John Wallace In
1SS5, and by his death In lSTs she camn
Into a laige fortune In Chicago real
estate., 'ntll lssl sh attracted little
attention, Tluit venr her only son died
ami she began her brilliant career of
luxuries mi. I philanthropies.
The tie.ws of llnellng her has been sent
fj the Hev. Dr. Newell Dwlght Illllls,
pastor of Plymouth Church, Brooklyn,
lie was her pastor In Chicago many
years ago. k
BORDEN CO. DEFIES
STRIKING DRIVERS
Viee-Pre.sideiil llalloek Says
Milk Will He Iicliveietl
In City To-dav.
Although the striking drlveis of tho
Horelen Jlllk fompany refused fiatly to
return to work under the company's of
fer of J2 a week Increase In wage, but
witheiut recognition of tho union. It. N,
llalloek, vice-president of the company,
said las: night that milk will be deliv
ered ns usual throughout the city this
morning in nlrnost every dNtrlit.
Mr llalloek ki, this after lie had
mUlpl.lll.nl to eVmillisi-loiior Wemels that
tho strlke-r nnd their sj mp tthlz.'is have
u-eel violence anil hail asked for police
pro'eetlem for the warons, which will be
tuanned by the drivers who rtinaliit.il
loyal, siipplementeel by those who ic
turneil to their posts under promise, of a
wage Inert-use,
"We will not employ strike breakers,"
continued Mr. llalloek. "but tin1 loyal
drivers and those who have returned will
be though to reduce materially the In
convenience 'he strike has caused our
customer, of 471 drivers who struck
'.':t:i have, returned, leaving 2U still out
Tlie company had I.Hhi drivers, so only
about one-sixth are now out."
He sal. I that only 2.10 drivers are
union men. nml that the n-t of them
elou't care whether ;he company recog
nizes tlie- union or not. Ned until el per
cent, or more of them demand union
recognition will thu company grant it,
he ibeiared.
The strike committee nf the men had
a meeting ut the Labor Temple. Flglity.
sixth street and Secnti'l avenue, and then
Issued ordeiK to the men to remain on
stilko until the union has in i n iccog
lived. They .ialmnl th.it Ho per cent, of
the men In llrooklvn and Queens are on
strike, numb-ring .".(.eo, ami that "no men
me out in Manhattan. They salel that
e-hen they xxiu the piesetil strike they
iv ill cam.- strikes III Hie other bU milk
companies.
The only dlnteler yesterday was In
the district i-overcd by the West Mighty
fourth strict depot. Wagons leaving
the depot w etc followed in several In
stances by automobiles emit. lining s'nk
ers ; xvhen the driver left hs wagon to
make a delivery one of llie strikers
would tlilve it back to the depot and
Itll.ITllli.il it there1.
WILSON MONEY FREER.
Hue Hacker of Prelil.-n Offer
HI, noil unlnsi sV'.mimi fur lltiuhr.
Morn Wilson n.oriey Is appealing In
the financial ellstrlct, atvonlnig to bet.
ting commissioner wine nre placing bits
on tho November e le ctions. Th,. odds on
Hughes ate s'lll 2 te 1, w Hi llepubllcans
willing to hack their favoilto freely at
the se figures.
The Wilson men are showing more
willingness ! back tln-lr favorite and
are Inclined to aive-pt b-ss rMis than 2i..
tei 1. one man .vesteid.iy oiTenel fl.""i
em Wilson against $2. too. Llule betting
Is being ejotie, however, at present
Wagers aggregating morn than $3,nmi
at odels of li to ,'e were placisl jestertlay
with l-'reel Seiuimm eif Hrnoklyn that
Hughes will In elected anil at S to f. that
ho will carry this State. The betting
on Cnlder wit 7 tn ', on Whitman fi to
.. ami the same enlds on District Alter
ncy Lewi. Mr. Schiinim has more than
V.'f.ooo at the present time stowed away
In his safe axvaltlng claimants on No.
ember s.
N. Y. EXPRESS HELD UP.
Ileelilu-ra Hit lleuulnr Weslertt Jolt
Near Kelrtill.
DKTiioir. Mich, Sept. 27 Michigan
Central passen--ei- train No, 14, known
as thn New York-Chicago ttxprcsM, bouiiel
from Chli'tigo tn Detroit, wan bold up by
a gang of robbers near Dcntborn, ten
mile west of here, late to-tilghl
Tho men unhooked the locomotive. Hie
null and baggage cats ami drove them
down thn track two miles, Hero tiiex
ransacked both cms. Including the "regis
tered matter In the mall car, and o.
captel after extinguishing tlio Hie In the
tocnniotlv e,
Th amount of booty obtained will not
ho known until tho postal iiutlinrlllcs
nave checl.ee! up en the rcgl-steicd mall.
Ol TDUT A V A Nil !'
MOTORMEN TO
QUIT, IS REPORT
A. L. Gridley, Organizer of
Brotherhood of Engineers,
in Announcement,
ASSAILS FITZGERALD
AND AMALGAMATED
Powerful Organization to
Pay Benefits of $10 a
Month, He Says.
PROMISES TO BRING
SHONTS "TO SENSES'
Early "Walkout Hinted, but
No Demands Are Yet
3fade on Interboro.
A. U. Gridley, organizer of th
Hrothcrhootl of Locomotive F.iiRlnPcrs.
In nn Interview nt the Herald Square
Hotel last night during which he
scored Organlrer Wllllim II. Fitzgerald
nnj tho Amalgamated Association of
Street and Klt'Ctrlc Hallway ICm-
ployecs, dcclaioil that tho brotherhood
liii.s lieen initibtruslvely engaged for
I years In organizing tin1 elevated nnel
surface motnrtnen tlesplt" the oppo-l-
j Hon of tho lnteiixjroiigli to "outsltlp"
I unions.
' Ho stutoi that tin1 time was not far
ellstant when the brothorhoie.i would
deal with this opposition of the Inn -Hon
ulllclal. Askeel to disclose how
I soon ho e.xpi'cted to put his demand"
to the Inleiis.rotich. .Mr. Gridley said
"There will 1.0 no publicity on that
until we do so."
He referred to the letter sent recently
to President Shouts rrquctltig an inter
view for the brotherhood, and rcmarkee!
that it meant they had "Important bust
ness to transact with the Interborougb "
' The methods of bis organization, Mr
Grblley said, vveeiild bo quiet anil peace
ful until they were ready to strike dlf
feierit from those of tho Amalgamated
which ho classed ixith tlie 'liot air and
brass band varletj."
I e'ortletilloii llelxrei-n I nlons.
' "The question of who has the right to
organize elevated and intcruib.tri treellov
lines," sabl Mr. Gridley, "has been
1 source of contention .. : xv e-.-n the two or
organization.. While- the brothel hood be
lle'vrs that the Amalgani.ui.el l doing
good work In Its organizing of the em
plovoes of the traction lines It insists
however, that the uiotorinen, with tliep
! skill and tialiilng, be long tlirly tei
tthein. The fact that n. many molnrrnet
I lenialned tin the Job In the prest nt strike'
indicates that the brotherhood controls
the majority eif them."
Ileturnlng lo the attitude of the Inter,
boreiugh Mr. Gridley said that if Mr
Shouts and his fellow e.lll.ials persisted
in their refii"tl to iceigntzu tne brother
. hood they would "be brought t thel1
I sell-os quicker t' .111 seem posl!.e"
I "Our repre'sentatlves,'' .'oiiliir.Kd Mr
Grlelley, "have been quietly orgtnlzlns
! the men on the 'I,' ami subwa.v y.-tcm
I of this city since tin- traction trouble
started. All our ili'nrts in this dlrectlne
have b-eii s-cr.t. eif coins.-, owing tei the
determination of Mr. Heilley to lire am
tnplovces who have nn.xthln? to elo xxiyi
t union organization
! Illtlleiiles M." sirll.e lleiti-nis.
I "Tlie Amilgimated Assoclatiou ha-
' tacitly rose-nted our endeavors to orgir.
lzc on the su'.nv.i.vs and "I." Mr. Fltr
gerabl has done considerable talking
about the piymont of strike benefits of
' !5 a week to striking traction men, bu'
nolsidy so far has heard of then getting
. any money.
1 "When the brotherhood strike eif the
1 'L' am! suhwax motnrmeu is called I"
1 It I called we will piy strike benefit
'of J4'i a month. We tin an this, ann
turtberinoio xxee tire- In 1 position tei do I'
"When tho Amalgamated Association
attempts tei Interfere with 'L' and sub-
veay liieitoinieii, some- of whom have beet
1 member of our biotlierhood sine-e th
time donkey e ngines were emplojetl or
, the '1,,' tne y nre tre-aellug on our pie
I serves. All of them nto lining high'
-kMlul work and It would be worse tli.i
foeilh inly tu attempt to lid their places
1 h tine event of a strike with unskilled
nnd Inexperienced workmen"
1 Mr. Gridley ieltoiat.il Hint I -.
1 broth.-rliood Intel not yet mado any ile
mantis on the luterboinugli.
Miotlls llrtlf llrollierlioorl,
PtesUlent Shout has dtne tl" or
I garilzatlon, however, one or tho "ltlg
Four" which ro'ently gaineel tln eight
hour law thiougli Prcsnleui Wilson aid
Ceingros.
! It became kunxxn veslrr.lav in if
! aniiouucemeiit give 11 out tu tho Put.)
Sort Ice Commission that be bluntly ir
I fused to let I,, li. Gritting ,tpel Mi
Griilley, tncom.ilv e eoiglneer otli.-ciP
I confer with liliu aiioin ivork.ug cioid
I linns 011 thei liitcrboiouuh. Tins 1 1 -. 1 1 1
i linn to treat Willi tho ' IPg Four' uic
was inade with the knmx ledge lli.n .
number of the el.-v,itei iin.l s :l.w.t nut
tornien urn member of t1. .miIsI.i..
, brotberhooel,
It was believed gener.ellx hen tie
) Aliialgainnteel c.tlle-il Its siuke ng.ilns.
the lliteiboiougli that Ihere xxtie I101
among its eminojee" wno i.eionKeei to
thei llrotllli liood of I motive ling
in eis. The'V xti r 1.1. 1 ell., lid bv tlie
union call 1 .ius th.- "II g Four" lots
110 alliance with tlio American Potior t
Hem of Labor
Yestetday Pieshlont Shunts, while re'
mlttlug some of Ips iiii.lormen ,tn- tn i'i
engineers' Inothei hood, tool mo nip,,
her is in gbgllih-.
lleerullliiK fur Month.
None1 of iho eiigiitreiV lirotli.-iiinoil .,'
fleers XMsteielay would ills. 'In. 1 H x
lent eif Its ttlellgtll on ttui mi tli. .0! ,mi
uudergi 011ml iiiaels
"Tills can I.e salel," eollllm'iit.'.l nnc of
fleer, "we have many more than Mi
Slionta may believe. 1" mi cnnpiU-ii eif
