, . ... .
/
" ^M/Lk SfT%V>id IfSf From Press to Home
?5H 3? tl f. || ms || ?}\\T|| f| I I Mi Wahm the Hour"
yesterday; lowest. 6fi. $t 5 a.m. today. 1/ W W ~ / ^ K
IV M't WJ /^'WVA'
CLOSING NEW YORK STOCKS PAGE 17. 181#. Bally Average, 7C?e?t Sunday, 55,712.
No. 29,455. WASHINGTON, D. C., THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1916.-TWENTY-TWO PAGES. * ONE CENT.
KING CONSTANT!
DECIDES TO WAR
UPON BULGARIANS
Ultimatum to Be Sent Demanding
Instant Evacuation
of Grecian Macedonia.
MOBILIZATION PROBLEM
WILL BE DIFFICULT ONE
Revolution Expected to Be Proclaimed
in Mitylene
Tomorrow.
HYDBA JOINS ALLIED FLEET
Unconfirmed Report Says Several
Other Vessels Have Gone Over.
Venizelos Makes Known
. His Purpose.
ATHENS, Wednesday, September
27, via London. September
28. 10:30 a.m.?The Associated
Press is in a position to state positively
that King Constantine decided
this' morning in favor of an
immediate declaration of war on
Bulgaria.
Reports that a general mobilization
has been ordered are prema
ture. After the session of the
council of ministers at the palace
this morning Premier Kalogeropoulos
hastily called a cablet
meeting. The premier declared j
the government was giving the j
fullest consideration to the situa-!
tion. and there might be addressed
to Bulgaria a note of such character
that mobilization would
logically follow.
Ultimatum to Be Sent.
Later in the day it developed that the
kins had decided on a declaraticn of
war against Bulgaria. The decision has 1
not yet been announced publicly, as nu- '
merous details remain to be worked '
out. They include an ultimatum to Bulgaria
demanding instant evacuation of J
all Greek Macedonia, as well as plans
for mobilization under the difficult conditions
presented by the occupation of!'
Greek territory by the entente forces. 1
The King this morning discussed the } ]
mobilization problem minutely with!
Gen. Mosothopoulos. chief of staff, and j ]
Gen. Yanakitsas, former - minister of ,
war. He probably will preside person- i
ally over a meeting of the crown coun- i
cil at noon tomorrow. Even the depar- ]
ture of former Premier Yenizelos from
Athens created nothing like the sup- i
pressed excitement evident everywhere 1
this afternoon. The people feel that j
their long period* of expectancy is about
to end. and prospect of war with the !
Bulgarians apparently is welcome.
Has No Designs on Government.
The Yeniz* list morning papers publish 1
declarations which the former premier
left prior to his denarture. in which-.
- - I
he savs the movement he heads is not i'
revolutionary, but purely of national
character, and that he has no design i
upon the integrity of the actual gov- j I
ernment of the country. M. Venizelos j
declares that his course is the only j
way by which national unity may be j
preserved, and that he will struggle ;
for the salvation of Greece without
the aid of the constituted government,!
if the government will not act. But i
if the king decides to defend Hellenic j
soil against the invaders he will be j
glad to turn over the forces he has j
gathered to co-operate in a common j
effort to save the country.
i
Communicates With King-.
It i.- learned that communication be- !
tween the king and M. Venizelos al- J
ready has been established through t+re !
former minister of war. Geri. Yanakit- j
sas, and that the outlook is favorable
for an early arrangement of the diffi- j
culties at present dividing Greece. The!
greatest blow to King <'onstantine has'
been the departure of Admiral Coun- 1
dourk/tis, who, after the sovereign, is j
the most distinguished national hero. j
Revolution to Be Proclaimed.
PARIS. September -JS.?An Athens dispat'-h
to the I lavas Agency says that a
monster meeting will be held at Mitylene
tomorrow, at which the revolution
will be proclaimed.
The Greek battleship Hydra has joined
the allied lleet, according to a dispatch
from Athens.
There is an unconfirmed report, the
dispatch adds, that the Greek battleships
Spetsai and Psara and four Greek
destroyers have also joined the com- i
hired Anglo-French naval forces under i
' Vice Admiral I>u Fournet, in the Medi- j
terraneari.
Venizelos Warmly Greeted.
Another dispatch from Athens says:
"Eliptherios Venizelos arrived at Suda j
bay on Monday night and entered Ca- i
nt-a. ine capuui, me next ?ay. Several !
thousand of the inhabitants escorted '
him in triumph, and he addresed them j
from the balcony of the barracks. There '
was no disorder in the city, the royalist J
officials and offic-rs keeping in the
background. Candia also is quiet.
M. Venizelos has announced that he
will send out from Crete in a few days
a proclamation to the Greek people explaining
his attitude and the necessity
of fighting against the Bulgarians. The
committee of national defense will have
its headquarters at Saloniki. probably
under the presidency of Admiral Coundouriotis.
M. Venizelos will direct the
*v>licv mi organize and extend the
movement."
$5,000 Job for Multimillionaire.
DKTROIT, Mich., September 28.?
James Couzens, multimillionaire and
former viy? president of the Ford Motor
Company, has accepted the appointment
as police commissioner of
Detroit. {|"he position carries an annual
salary of $5,000. He succeeds
Jobn Gillespie, who resigned last night.
PRESIDENT'S STATE
INVADED BY HUGHES
Republican Nominee Makes
His First Appearance in
New Jersey.
SPEAKS AT FAIR GROUNDS
TO TRENTON AUDIENCE
f
Protective Tariff His Theme?Administration
Charged With Extravagance
and Broken Pledges.
TRENTON. X. J., September 2S|?
Charles E. Hughes today addressed an
audience at the state fair here.
Mr. Hughes reached Trenton at 10
a.m. from Pittsburgh, where he spoke
last night, and motored to the -fair
grounds. There he held a public reception
for an hour, afterward speaking
from the judges' stand at the race
track.
With him on the stand were successful
and defeated republican candidates
for various offices at Tuesday's primary
election.
It was Mr. Hughes' first appearance
as a presidential nominee in President
Wilson's home state. He spoke chiefly
of the protective tariff. 4
Grandstand Seats Sold.
He found on reaching the fair grounds ;
that seats in the grandstand which his j
platform faced had been sold, some of
them three weeks in advance, for the
trotting races. The crowd was permitted
to stand on the race track and
the nominee turned his back to the J
grandstand to address them. }
j nousanas wno nad bought cheaper i
seats in the stand were unable to hear
him. Unwilling to risk losing their
seats they remained in their places out
of earshot.
Mr. Hughes spoke chiefly of the protective
tariff. He assailed the adminration
vigorously for the Adamson
law, extravagance and "broken
j..c-uges. He reiterated his declaration
for enforcement of American rights.
The crowd applauded frequently.
Hughes Covered With Dust
in a Tour of Steel Plants;
Reviews Pittsburgh Parade
PITTSBURGH, Pa., September 28.?
Charles E. Hughes went through the
big steel-making district of Pittsburgh
yesterday, addressed thousands of
urorkin&rmen , who left their tn
hear, returned to the city laat night
covered with dust and untied first
Jay of his campaign in Pennaylvania
with a speech in the mualc hall of the
Pittsburgh exposition.
The chief theme in all of Mr. Hughes'
Addresses today was the protective
tariff. To an audience of thousands of
workmen at the Homestead steel plant
lie declare^ that present conditions of
prosperity would not endure in the
Jays when Europe would be at peace
unless the United States should adopt a
protective tariff.
To an audience that jammed the music
hall he repeated this statement last
night. He also dwelt at length upon
his views on the Adamson bill, the administration's
policy toward Mexico, the
shipping bill and what he termed extravagant
claims made by the administration
for having aided* business.
Progressives Sit With Republicans.
Mr. Hughes spoke from a platform
upon which were seated republican and
progressive leaders who have opposed
one another in the state during the past
four years. On his way here from
Cleveland he was met and escorted to
this city bj Senators Oliver and Penrose
and William Flinn, a former progressive
leader. These, with Alexander
P. Moore and other progressive and
republican leaders, sat with him on the
platform last night.
In his speech Mr. Hughes emphasized
his belief that the republican party
was reunited.
"The breach of recent years has been .
healed," he said. "And our national j
aims at this time are conceived to be j
of such transcendent importance that
we know of no difference and are not '
allowing any former disagreements to ;
impair our unity of effort:. We are j
going straight to the mai k of pro- ;
viding a sure basis for permanent pros- i
perirv in the United States.
"I should take little pleasure in my !
candidacy if 1 did not think that the '
reunited republican party was a great j
liberal party, the party of progress.!
We are truly progressive, sanely progressive,
looking forward to the solution
of important problems that this
new century will place before us."
>ir. nugn?? a^am aeeoucu me dunnni.stration
for the Adamson Jaw, the shipping
law and the Underwood tariff.
He left at midnight for Trenton, N. J ,
where he speaks this morning, and
Saratoga Springs, N. Y.t where he *will i
deliver an address tonight. His voice
still showed signs of the strain under
which he has been laboring, but was
measurably improved.
Candidate Dust-Covered.
In the afternoon Mr. Hughes motored
seventy-five miles over dusty roads
through the heart of the steel-making
district. He visited Homestead, Duquesne,
McKeesport, Wilmerding and
East Pittsburgh, addressing audiences
of blue-jeaned mill workers at every
stop. The smoke and dust and grimes of
the journey were on him at its close.
To these audiences, the nominee spoke
chiefly of the protective tariff. At one
big plant, the 7,500 workers were given
an hour off on full time to hear him.
The managers of his tour estimated
that it cost this company $2,000 in
wages to have Mr. Hughes visits its
plant.
After the long motor trip Mr. Hugfees
reviewed a big parade of republicans
last night. They marched past his
hotel, six > and eight abreast, with
white umbrellas over their heads, \
torches lighted and red fire blazing, j
Nearly an hour was required for the |
parade to pass. i
With scant time for dinner, the nominee
hurried away to the meeting, which I
was held in Exposition Hall. There he
found an audience that packed the
building and brimmed over into the
street.
Ten Infantile Paralysia Deaths.
NEW YORK. September 28.?The
number of new cases of infantile paralysis
reported by the health authorities
today remained at the same level
set by the Increase of yesterday, there
being twenty-six. The number of
deaths doubled, being ten, as compared
with five yesterday. For the first time
in more than ten days the borough of
Richmond appears in the new case
column, reporting one. ,
K
TWO TOUGH JOBS
FOR G1P. CHIEFS
Must Keep "Eight-Hour" Issue
Alive and Combat "Peace"
Sentiment.
HENRY FORD A CHAMPION
OF THE WILSON POLICIES
Indorsement of Railway Strike legislation
Matter of Concern
to Republicans.
BY N. 0. MESSENGER.
CHICAGO, September 28.?
Two tasks confront the republican
campaign managers at this
stage of the proceedings and employ
their most earnest consideration.
The first is to keep their
new-born issue of the eight-hour
wage coercion from being distorted
to the advantage of the opposition,
and the other is to combat
that popular obsession that
President W ilson kept the country
out of war.
First Problem More Exigent.
The first problem is the more exigent,
the second the more difficult. The woman
voters of the western woman suffrage
states are involved in the "he
kept us out of war" proposition, and the
futility of argument against a sentimental
determination can be appreciated.
The democratic campaign managers
have been prompt in getting to work to
put their side of the eight-hour issue
before the public. In passing, it may
be said that the democrats appear to be
a little quicker on their feet and handier
with the gloves than the republicans,
although it remains to be seen
who will have the most staying qualities
and the heaviest punch in the end.
Ford Out for Wilson.
The democrats have enlisted Henry
Ford of Detroit in their first effort to
divert the eight-hour issue to their
own advantage. Mr. Ford has issued a
statement praising the eight-hour prinpiple,
decrying the protective tariff,
tying up Hughes, Roosevelt and Wall
street in one bag and tossing the trio.
Into the Bosporus of his disapprobation.
It was a perfectly corking statement,
and the democrats are counting
upon it to sway the workingmen in the
automobile industries of Michigan to
an extent which will offset the big republican
vote of the state and put
Michigan in the Wilson column.
And thus it appeared to some of the
republicans at first blush. Upon second
thought, however, it occurred to
mem mai Mr. f ora is not ionowea entirely
by many other great manufacturers
of the country, and certainly not
in his appraisal of the protective tariff.
It is said he has raised an issue among
the manufacturers of the land as between
Hughes and Wilson which will
attract serious attention.
Burden on the G. 0. P.
However, *the statement of Mr. Ford
on the eight hour principle is not
lightly overlooked, and the fact is not
lost sight of that while a statement is
not an argument, in the present circumstances
it devolves upon the republican'
to bring out the argument.
That is what they are going to do
from now until election day. The republicans
are giving devout thanks
that the eight-hour climax came so far
in advance of election day.* If it had
been sprung a fortnight before November
7 their problem would have
been harder.
It remains to be demonstrated
whether their speakers can keep the issue
as clearly defined as did Mr. Hughes
in his first stand upon the subject, or
whether the opposition will be successful
in giving it the humanitarian imprint
of a stand for the principle of the
eight-hour day of labor.
Attitude of Woman Voters.
Indications are at hand that on this,
as on the war exernptivc, the woman
voters are inclining to side with President
Wilson. Here is a sample, quoting
verbatim from the speech of Mrs. Antoinette
Funk of Illinpis, a leader
among the woman voters, delivered at
Springfield, September 26, who said: "I
came to President Wilson because 1 belicvr.
in la hnr 1 ftr\el a tir?n nr. mrf tf/..
what happens to the particular measure,
the Adamson bill, whether it is
amended or repealed. Quite regardless
of the special controversy of the moment,
I consider that this measure has
put the advent of the short working
day ahead a quarter of a century and
in a very special manner it affects legislation
regarding women."
There it is, "quite regardless" of the
special controversy of the moment."
That is the keynote of the defense of
the democratic position and from Henry
Ford all down the line the democrats
will ^ound it incessantly.
That it is offkey, a false note, it rests
with the republicans to prove.
FOOD SUPPLY BILLS HIGHEB.
Beans and Corn Scarce, Navy Department
Learns.
NEW YORK, September 28.?Bids for
j food supplies for the United States
Navy, just received here, are much
higher than those of last year. Some
of the items called for, such, as beans
and corn, are so scarce that many
firms which usually bid on these contracts
did not compete. Only two firms
bid on the stringbean contract and
?-* All nnlv nart of th* nrrt??r nf
500,000 pounds. One firm offered to
I supply 270.000 pounds for $22,120. The
lowest bid for 1,140.000 pounds of canned
corn was $86,174, while 2,305,000
pounds of canned tomatoes were offered
for $112,945. '
One of the largest items on the list
was 640,000 pounds of canned peaches,
which were offered at $51,319.
Bread in Chicago Now 6 Cent*.
CHICAGO, September 28.?Housewives
of Chicago today began paying 6 cents
for a loaf of bread which formerly
sold for 5 cents. Smaller bakers
throughout thr city will follow the example
of the larger wholesalers In adI
vanclng the price, it was said.
' W
or
FLOUR AT HIGHEST
LEVEL SINCE 1865
f
May Jump to $14 a Barrel, According
to Statements of
Washington Dealers.
The price of flour in Washington today
is the highest it has been since the
civil war?$9.55, $9.75 and $10 a barrel?with
the prospect that if wholesale
shipment of wheat abroad is not
stopped flour will within a very few
months jump to $14 a barrel, according
to statements made today by leaders
in this line of business.
To 'safeguard the interests of the
consumers in the United States business
interests are considering the advisability
of urging that an embargo
be placed upon the shipment of wheat
abroad, that wheat from Argentina,
Canada and elsewhere be admitted
duty free, that the American mills be
kept going and allow the flour to be
shipped to the needy of the world in
such quantities as will not impoverish
the American consumer.
At a meeting of the Washington
Chamber of Commerce executive committee
this noon this matter was considered
and opinions were expressed
that this condition should be brought
to the attention of the Chamber of
Commerce of the United States with a
view to having it refer the question
to the thousands of subsidiary chambers
throughout the United States.
Views of P. T. Moran.
P. T. Moran, president of the Chamber
of Commerce, who himself has been
a wholesale dealer in flour here for
more than twenty years, gave his opinion
today as follows:
"If we continue selling wheat out of \
the Country the price of wheat and 1
flour must advance. We should keep J
what we have at home and keen our
mills going. Let the wheat in free,
but have no embargo on the milled
flour. It is not greed or an inclination
to deprive other people that prompts
this view. It is only meeting abnormal
conditions to care for our own needs.
In several months flour may go to $14
or $15 a barrel. The growers would
not suffer through keeping the wheat
at home, for so long as the mills are
grinding the wheat they will get splendid
prices. The bakers of the United
States at a recent convention advocated !
an embargo on wheat and other im- j
portant trade organizations are sup- 1
porting that view. The Washington I
Chamber of Commerce stands ready to J
do all it can in a movement for the
protection of the consumer." '
Flf/Ur today is selling for the highest }
price since he has been in business, I
Mr. Moran says. Special brands in
twenty-flve-barrel lots are being sold
for $9.25 net. The average price on j
winter wheat patent flour, according
to Mr. Moran, is $8.25, and the spring
wheat mixed brings about $9.50. Some
special brands carry a premium of 60
or 75 cents over that.
At the office of W. M. Gait & Co., 1st
street and Indiana avenue northwest,
it was stated that the price of flour today
is the highest in the memory of
the firm. The jobbing price was given
at $9.75 on a popular brand. It was
explained that the market price of
flour is based on the cost of wheat;
that no trust can control prices of
whea tand flour since they are regulated
by the price in the markets of
the world, and hence reach a world
standard.
Cost Affected by Package.
S. H. Rogers of Wilkins, Rogers Milling
Company, 3261 K street northwest,
said that the prices on flotir are the
highest he can remember and he has
been in the business more than twenty
years. Before giving the price on flour,
he explained that the kind of package
makes a difference of about 40 cents in
cost. The carload price of flour in bulk
today, he said, to bakers, for a good
spring wheat patent would be $8.25 in
sacks; to dealers on winter wheat, $8,
and on spring wheat $9, and that the
dealer should be allowed $1 profit for
i
# /";
"The Triflers"
A new love serial by Frederick
Orin Bartlett, who
wrote "The Wall Street
Girl," is a wholesome story
of a lovable woman and two
high-minded men. R'eafr tlife
opening chapters in the nexr
Sunday Magazine of The
Sunday Star.
maintaining his stock and cartage. He
explained that a large percentage of
wheat this year is not fit to mill and
that efforts are being made to get some
better wheat to blend with this. He
predicted that the presenut supply is
almost certain to run short before the
next-year crop comes in. As a result
of this he said he supposed the bakers
will feel forced to cut down on the
size of a loaf of bread and that in
Washington they probably will put out
an 8 to 10 ounce loaf.
Dispatches printed yesterday that a
shipment of 4,000 bushels of wheat from
Argentina has been made to the United
States does not give local dealers much i
encouragement. They say this would
only be a "drop in the bucket," that it
is more than likely the cargo is intended
for immediate transhipment abroad, and
that it has not even been established
what the unalitv of this wheat is. It
probably will be blended with United
States wheat, they say.
The average yearly crop of Argentina
is about 200,000,000 bushels. This
is scarcely one-third of the crop of
the United States. Europe always has
been a buyer of wheat in that country,
and will doubtless continue to buy
there. The distance'vessels must travel
is considerably greater than from this
country, and this adds to the cost of
the freight. Europe has preferred to
get its grain supply from the United
States, all other things being equal.
Committee to investigate
Cause of Increase in Flour
and Other Foodstuffs Here
A committee to investigate the
causes of the increase in the cost of
flour and other foodstuffs and to take
steps to prevent a further increase was
appointed at the meeting of the executive
committee of the Washington :
Chamber of Commerce today.
P. T. Moran. president of the Cham- I
ber of Commerce and chairman of the !
executive committee, declared that i
wheat and flour are advancing at an |
alarming rate and that within six I
months it is impossible to say what;
figures may be reached. Mr. Moran de- i
clared that neither the farmers nor the
bulk of the people of this country are
benefiting from the raise in the price,
which is occasioned largely by the exportation
of wheat and flour to Europe.
"A group of about twenty-five men who
really do not need the money are the ones
who are profiting by this rise in'price," he
declared. "I am not an alarmist, nor am
I one who 'flies off the handle* at the first
suggestion, but I want to tell you that the
situation is one of extreme gravity.
"At present milling companies will not
take orders for two months in advance.
Yesterday a steamer landed in this country
with wheat from Argentina. This is
the first shipload of wheat which has ;
ever been imported into this country.
Albert Schulteis urged that all foodstuffs
be included in the investigation
which was to be made, as, he claimed, the
h-.kprs alwavs are the ones Questioner! if
the price of bread advances.
"This is not intended to strike at the
bakers, but to help protect them," said
A. Leftwich Sinclair, who introduced the ,
resolutions calling: for the investigation.
"All persons can realize that if the cost
of wheat goes up flour and bread also
must rise in price."
John G. Capers spoke of the higher
cost of shoes and leather as well as
foodstuffs.
The resolutions presented by Mr. Sinclair^
after saying "There has been a
steady and alarming increase in the
price of wheat and flour in this country,"
direct that, "in the interest and
for the benefit and protection of the
public, a committee of five members
be appointed to determine the cause
of the increase in the price of wheat
and floui in the United States, and to
consider and report upon ways and
means of preventing further increase in
the price of wheat and flour."
President Moran appointed the following
committee: John G. Capers,
president; Albert Schulteis, Theodore
Michael, Howard Wilkins and W. S.
Hoge. The committee is to report at
the board , of directors' meeting In October,
_ -
PRESIDENT PLANS
TruMCu/rnn n n
lUHNOYYLKU.U.r.
Will Assail Stand taken by Republicans
on Prominent
Issues.
LONG BRANCH, N. J., September 28.
?Arrangements for President Wilson
to assail the republican stand on the
prominent issues of the campaign were
made at a conference here today between
the President, Vance C. McCormick,
chairman of the democratic national
committee, and Secretary Tumulty.
Using his speech of acceptance as
a foundation, the President is preparing
to build up the democratic case in
a series of addresses on political subjects.
Mr. Wilson, it was decided definitely
today, will make at least two speeches
in New York state, one in New York
city and the other in Buffalo. They
will not be made until the middle or
latter part of October and will be arranged
to back up the active campaign
to be made by Samuel Seabury, democratic
candidate for governor, and William
F. jytcCombs, candidate for senator.
Speech Each Saturday.
A decision was also reached for the
President to make at least one speech
here every Saturday between now and
election. He has already agreed to address
a Pennsylvania delegation October
14, and today arrangements were made
for him to speak to a delegation of farmers
and a delegation from St. Louis later
in October. Farmers from New Jersey
and neighboring states will be invited for
"farmers' day." Mr. McCormick said he
expected "Pennsylvania day" to be a
great success.
"Mr. Hughes is slipping, and from now
on Mr. Wilson's stock will rise," said Mr.
McCormick, who was plainly pleased by
his conference with the President. "There
is to be no lagging in the democratic
campaign, and every point made by the
republicans will be more than answered."
Mr. McCormick, who came here last
night, conferred with the President for
more than five hours and went over with
him the details of the campaign plans.
He left this morning for New York, but
will return for another conference Monday
before the President leaves for
Omaha, where he speaks Thursday night.
Decorates Boy Scout.
Mr. Wilson had his picture taken today
pinning a medal on Scout MacMorris
at Hazelton, Pa., a winner of the
highest honors conferred by the Boy
Scouts of America. He congratulated
the boy on his prowess, and spoke of
the good work done by the Boy Scouts. .
Later he saw 'Miss Ida Tarbell, the
magazine writer, who is supporting him ]
in the campaign. J
Issues raised by Mr. Hughes will be
discussed by President Wilson here *
Saturday in his first purely political
speech since his address accepting the
renomination. Administration officials 1
said that when he appears before the
members of young men's democratic
clubs at Shadow Lawn the President will ,
handle the political situation "without
gloves." A delegation of nearly 2,000 '
young democrats is expected here on
special trains Saturday to hear the
President's address. The public will be
admitted to the grounds.
Different From Baltimore Address, i
It is understood that the Presideht's 1
speech Saturday will be totally differ- 1
ent from his Baltimore address Mon- *
day, in which he discussed business <
problems from a non-political stand- 1
point. He has not fully developed his r
views on the Adamson law,, it was declared.
and, in addition, is planning to r
speak on sectionalism, Mexico and the a
problems caused by the European war. r
The President will push a button Oc- a
tober 2, opening an industrial exposi- r
tion at Zanesville, Ohio, and it has f
been decided-that when he goes to In- r
dlanapolis October 12 he will speak in r
the fair grounds there. I
\ . \
-- ........v . - .
STRIKE A FAILURE,
CLAIMJLY. POLICE
Unable to Find Any Evidence
of a General Suspension
of Labor.
TRACTION LINE SERVICE
STILL ON NORMAL BASIS
More Unions Voting Today on
Strike Question?Printers Forbidden
to Go Out.
NEW YORK. September 28.?
Leaders of union labor appeared
today to have met with small success
in their renewed efforts to
bring about their promised general
strike to aid the striking traction
employes, which was called
to begin yesterday. Despite the
claim of the leaders that the number
who have quit work totals
125,000 and more, police officials
said today that if a strike was in
progress there was little evidence
of it.
"If there is a general labor strike in
this city we can't find it," said the secretary
of the police commissioner.
Service on the elevated and subway
lines continued normal today, except for
the withdrawal of a large number of
cars, owing to the decreased traffic due
to the Jewish holiday, and the general
situation seemed to be about the same
as it has been for the last week.
More Unions Voting Today.
Unions having a total membership of
164,000 are voting on the strike today.
One of the most important of these organizations
is the New York Building
Trades Council. It was announced that
7,000 brewery workers will strike today,
but it was stated that these men have a
trade agreement which permits them to
have a holiday at this season every year.
Members of the United Hebrew Trades,
composing one of the largest divisions of
trade unionism in the city, are celebrating
the Jewish New Year today. Whetner
they will remain out on strike cannot be
determined until next week.
.Today is the beginning of the third
week of the strike of the street car
men. The traction companies assert
their service is improving daily. Union
leaders, however, see a possibility that
the motormen of the subway and elevated
lines may join the strike as a
result of grievances presented in their
behalf by the Brotherhood of Locomotive
Engineers.
Strike of Printers Vetoed.
Word has been received from Marsden
G. Scott, president of the International
Typographical Union, that he
has advised the local unions here that
the executive committee of that or
gaiuziiuun win not sanction a striae
and that their contracts with employers
will be observed to the letter.
Qne passenger was injured when a
3d avenue elevated train was showered
with bricks and bottles today. Other
3d avenue trains were attacked also,
but the damage was limited to broken
windows. The police arrested four
men, two of them striking street railway
employes, on the charge of being
responsible for the riot that took place
last night following the derailment of
a 3d avenue surface car at 96th street.
The statement today by Ernest Bohm,
state organizer of the American Federation
of Labor, was:
"We have 163,000 out at this moment.
We will have quite a surprise
for you this afternoon. I am not bluffing
when I say this."
Reports received at police headquarters
today were that 12,000 tunnel
workers on new subway construction
were preparing to strike.
Violence Renewed.
Violence broke out again ^oday when
a crowd of strike sympathizers attacked
a Grand street cross town car
with stones, shattering windows and
driving the motc-rman, conductor and
passengers into the street. The stone
throwers were dispersed by the police,
who made one arrest.
Efforts of the 3rd Avenue system to
run cars in Westchester county today
for the first time since the traction
strike began, results in attempts on
the part of the strikers or their sympathizers
to cripple the lines by cutting
feed wires, soaping the rails and
pulling trolley poles off the wires.
COAST FLEETS COMBINE
NEW YORK, September 28.?William .
M. Barnum. president of the Pacific Coast |
Company, confirmed here today the announcement
made yesterday in Seattle
that the boats owned by his company
will be operated jointly with the fleet of
the Pacific Alaska Navigation Company,
under the control of a new company callad
the Pacific Steamship Company. j
"The authorized capital of the new com- j
pany is ? 1,000.000," he said. "Half of it j
tias been issued and paid in equal amounts
by the Pacific Coast Company and the |
Pacific Alaska Navigation Comnanv. !
rhese two companies charter their respective
fleets to the new company for a
term of ten years."
The value of the two fleets, he said, aggregated
about $7,000,000. a
I
MOB MURDERS TWO NEGROES. '
i
Taken From Jail, Bound to Trees "
and Riddled With Bullets. t
NASHVILLE, Tenn., September 28.? ti
rwo negroes charged with connection
with the murder of Bud Burns, at the v
jhosphate mines at Gardonsburg, Sat- P
trday night, were taken from the Ho- g
renwald Jail at 1 o'clock this morning, u
;arried to a hill on the road to the P
nines, bound to trees with wire and" n
iddled with bullets. . ~ ~ n
A mob of seventy-two men partly J
nasked awoke Sheriff O. C. Christian J'
ind demanded the prisoner*:" On his V
efusal he .was seised, threatened with '
. pistol and carried to the;garden, while "
nemb?rs"of the mob obtawied the keys ?
'rom the sheriff's wife. 'Some young
nen followed the mob in an auto- j
nobtle and found the dead bodies of the
-F"*^ - ~~
BRITISH KEEP UP :i
ADVANCEJN WEST
Push Ahead Between Martinpuich
and Guendecourt and
North of Flers. _ >
GERMANIC ATTACKS N
AT VERDUN REPULSED
French Forces Have Thrust Out
Forcefully From Bancourt and
Bouchavesnes.
LONDON, September 2S.?British
troops last night advanced at various
points on the Somme front between
Martinpuich and Gueudecourt, says the
British official statement issued today.
The French have been thrusting out
forcefully east from Rancourt into the
St. Pierre St. Vaast wood, and at
Bouchavesnes to the south they are
alffiost in a direct line north of Peronne,
against which the speedy development
of their enveloping movement is now*
to be expected.
Meanwhile activity has been resumed
at Verdun, the Germans again attacks
ing east of the Meuse, between Thiaumont
and Fleurv. The asaults were
repulsed by the French, with heavy
losses to the crown prince's troops,
Paris declares.
British Take Trenches.
German trenches on a front of 2,000
yards to the north of Flers and a German
redoubt to the northeast of Thiepval
were captured by the British during
the fighting Wednesday north of
the Somme, according to the official
communication issued shortly after
1 hln.r Vi; o flahtino- thA
miumgiii. i'coi? luinj, who ??
British official statement says:
"Excellent progress was made today
(Wednesday) on the battle front.
North of Flers our troops carried further
enemy trenches on a front of
2.000 yards and are now level with the
east side of Faucourt L'Abbaye.
"There has been fierce fighting northeast
of Thiepval, in the course of
which our troops stormed and now
hold an enemy work known as the
Stuff redoubt, on the main ridge 2,000
yards northeast of the village.
Captures of Material.
"More than 1,800 rifles, four flammenwerfers
and many thousand rounds of
artillery ammunition and grenades
were taken in Combles. where our allies
also made large captures of material.
"The prisoners taken in the last two
days' fighting bring the total for the
operations of the last fortnight to 10,000.
"Two enemy aeroplanes and two kite
balloons were destroyed yesterday.
Two of our machines are missing."
"Our new positions gained during the
last two days have been secured during
the night, and patrols and detachments
have been pushed forward at
many places into close touch with the
enpmv."
Latest British Beport.
The British announcement today
says: # inBP
"During' the night our line was advanced
at various points between Martinpuich
and Gueudecourt and posts
were established west and southwest of
Eaucourt L'Abbaye and within 800
yards of that village.
"On the left of our front our position
was consolidated on the ridge
northeast of Thiepval. A battalion of
enemy infantry with transport was
caught on the march by our artillery
and successfully shelled.
"The fighting in the last few days
has been singularly economical. Our
losses were sn^all, not only relatively
to the importance of our gains, but
absolutely. Qct total casualties were
not more tha'n twice the number of
enemy prisoners taken. One division
which had a specially difficult task allotted
to it took as many prisoners as
it suffered casualties."
Aircraft Bomb Germans.
A British official communication issued
last evening tells of the bombing of German
positions by aircraft, as follows:
"Attacks were carried out this morning
on enemy airship sheds at Evere,
Berchen, St. Agathe and at Etterbeek,
near Brussels, by naval aeroplanes.
Bombs were observed to straddle the
sheds, which apparently were hit.
"The bombs dropped at Evere struck
building^, presumably ajnmunition stores,
in close proximity to tjjfi, sheds. Heavy
expiUSlUUS tvnc Jicuiu anu taiB? tviuiiio*
of smoke were observed. All the machines
returned safely."
Luxemburg Foundries Attacked.
BERLIN, September 28, via London,
5:15 p.nr.?German troops yesterday
victoriously repulsed the 'Anglo-Frencli
forces on a greater part of the battle
front between the Ancre brook and the
River Somme, says the official statement
issued today by the German army
headquarters staff.
Attacks by entente aircraft upoif
foundries in Luxemburg are declared
by the Luxemburg newspaper Obermosel
to be unjustified. Luxemburg,
t declares, stands ready to furnish ammunition
to any customer. It cites Switserland
and the United States as in a
similar position regarding the furnishing
yf ammunition supplies to belligerents,
md are. nevertheless, exempt under inernational
law from attacks upon their
munition plants.
British Munitions Destroyed.
The story of the destruction by German
iviators the night of July 20 of huge
iritish ammunition stores at Audruicq, in '
* ? ton nillos Knutfawlf Ca?
torment t ?
ais. is now published by the semi-official
forddeutsche Allgemeine Zeitung. Ac^
ording to this newspaper. German a via- .
ors kept watch for months as the arp!nunition
storehouses were being built-"
i'he plant consisted of dozens of sheds v
nd buildings of all sizes, equipped withast
switching facilities and unloading
latforms.
When the aviatops had satisfied themelves
that the storehouses were filled they
ndertook" the attack in the night, droping
bombs which are said to have caused
he explosion of every one of the storeouses
and set fire to barracks and other
illitary establishments over a wide area,
'holographs taken by the aviators the
allowing day, when contrasted with pleural
taken the day before the attack
ho wed. only huge craters where the amlunition
plant had been, leaving no doubt
s to the completeness of the destruction
rrought.
K
Cay Have Occurred Some Time Ago,
The Norddeutsche Allgemeine Zeit,
