3FTNANCTALEDiTIONs
-nl-
NIGHT
EXTRA
VOL. in. NO. 13
txmmta
iJltittt
NIGHT
EXTRA
HAIG'S TROOPS
GAIN NEW LINES
IN "BIG PUSH"
British Advance Between
Martinpuich and Gueude-
court in Latest Thrust
K
FRENCH FIRM ON MEUSE
Rumanians Win in Transylvania.
Greece on Brink of
War
British troops drove on again last
jiight In the great Allied offensive on the
Somme, General Halg reported this aft-
lernoon. Tho latest British advance was
between Martinpuich and Gueclecourt.
The British arc now concentrating their
efforts in attacks in tho direction of
Bapaume, from which their lines are
B 'only threoNmllcs distant.
The Frerith aro making ready for tho
""encirclement of Peronne and Chaulnes,
" south of the Somme. The number of
' prisoners taken by the Allies as a re
sult of two weeks' fighting in the
Somme region is 10,000, In addition,
much booty and vast quantities of am
munition have been taken.
A German attack in the Thiaumont
Fleury sector on the Verdun front last
night was crushed by the combined
power 'of French guns and infantry,
Paris reported today.
On tho Bulgar front fighting con
tinues Bulgarian attacks, delivered
with the purpose of recapturing Fio
rina, were beaten back with bloody
losses, the French War Office announced
today.
Tho long-expected counter-offensive
of Field Marshal von Hindenburg
against the Russians is apparently un
der way. Numerous attacks have been
launched by the Germans on, the east
ern front all along tho line from Riga
to Ums Galician border. In Volhynia,
German pressure became so strong that
: the Russians' advanco was halted.
Greece's army of 300,000 men will
be mobilized immediately to join the
armfon nf thn Ailing, nnirl on unrnn.
'Lrmed Athens dispatch today.
King Constantino was expected to
sign the mobilization decree within
forty-eight hours, Athens reported. The
Government will then issue a procla
mation to the people, denouncing Bul
garia's occupation of Kavala and other
s Greek ports, following 'this with a dec
laration of war.
Contradictory dispatches from Ath
ens left the situation greatly clouded
today, but it appeared probablo that
' ex-Premier Venizelos arrival at Crete,
where he received an enthusiastic wel
come, forced the hand of tho King.
Venizelos caused a proclamation to be
given wide circulation throughout
Greece offering the King ono more
chance to join the Allies. The 'alter
native apparently was a revolution.
PHILADELPHIA, THUBSDAY", SEPTEMBER 28, 191G
ComianT, 1010, t ins rmto Lxdoii Coxmkt.
r BRITISH TROOPS ADVANCE
AGAIN. ON SOMME FRONT,
GENERAL HAIG REPORTS
LONDON, Sept 28.
The British drove on last nlirht In the
J-', (reat Somme battle, which has raged uu
ji ceaslngly slnca Monday morning, and ad-
1 vanced their lines between MartlnDUlch and
1,.. j .. . .... .... ...,
"uucuccuuri, iienerai jmiK repuneu una eve-
f4 ainr.
f General Hale's men are pushing steadily
forward to the north. In the direction of
Bapaume, now only three miles away, ac
cording to official bulletins. The British
: are now only 800 yards from Faucourt
v l'Abbaye.
i 'Excellent progress was made today,"
' E&ys thA 1ntfit Tli-ftUh ttitllAlfn "K7.....I, i
t Piers our troons carried further- nmv
t-J trenches on a front of 2000 yards and are
ST now level with the east side of Faueom-t
1'Abbe.
."There has been fierce fighting northeast
Thlenval. in the course nf uhlv, ..-
k, troops stormed and now hold an enemy
BRITAIN RESENTS PEACE TALK
OF NESJTRALS; DEMANDS FIGHT
TO FINISH, LLOYD GEORGE SAYS
Move by United States, Vatican or ain Woufd
Be Construed as Pro-German, War Secretary
. Declares Determined on "Knockout"
L )
By ROY W. HOWARD
rresldnt of the Unltd Trm Atioclatlon. CopyrUM. 1010, by the United True. Copyrighted.
In Oreat Hrluln. '
The following interview with David Lloyd Gcdhge, the directing
lore, 'behind Great Britain's armies, asserting that the war must go on
to the finish to a knockout is the first statement given by htm to
American newspapers since he succeeded Lord Kitchener as Secretary
of State for Wan
I0ND0N, Scpt 28, Thcre ,s no cnd of tho war in siBht Any attempt at
this time by the United States, tho Vatican or any other neutral in tho direction
of peace would bo construed by England as an unneutral, pro-German move.
These statements are made on the
authority of the British man of the
hour, Right Honorable David Lloyd
George, Secretary of State for War.
"Britain has only begun to fight; the
British Empire has invested thousands
of its best lives to purchase future im
munity for civilization; this investment
is too great to bo thrown away," was
the Welsh statesman's size-up of tho
situation.
More than at any time since tho be
ginning of the war there is evidenced
throughout England a popular suspi
cion townrd America, a suspicion that
did not exist a year ago. This feeling
appears directly attributable to the no
tion generally entertained by the man
on the street that President Wilson
might bo induced to "butt in" for the
purpose of stopping the European war.
A similar suspicion of Spain and the
Vatican is also manifest.
Lloyd George was asked to give in
the simplest possible language the
British attitude toward the recent
peace talk.
"Simple language?" he queried with
fl Violf 0V!1m HP! tin 4...Vl.
DAVID LLOYD GEORGE mcnt;
"Sporting terms are pretty well understood wherever English is spoken,"
he replied.. "I am quite sure they will be understood in America.
"Well, then, tho British soldier is a good sportsman. He enlisted in this
war in the sporting spirit the best sense of that tcm. He went in to see
fnir play to a small nation trampled upon by a bully. He is fighting for fair
play in international dealings. He has fought as a good sportsman by the
thousands. He has died like a sportsman. He has never nsked anything more
than a sporting chance and hasn't always had that. When he couldn't get it, he
didn't quit. He played the game. He didn't squeal and certainly he never asked
any one to squeal for him.'' N
SAYS GERMANS ARE "SQUEALING"
The Secretary for War, who looks, acts and talks more like an American
business man than any, other Englishman in public life now, speaking real
United States with scarcely any trace of the usual British intonation of accent,
continued : f
"Under the circumstances, the British, now that the fortunes of the game
have turned a bit, arc not disposed to stop because of the squealing done by the
Germans or for the Germans by probably well-meaning but misguided sym
pathizers and humanitarians.
"For two years the British soldier had a bad time no one knows so well
n3 he what a bad time it was. He was sadly inferior in equipment. On the
average ho was inferior in training. He saw the Allied cause beaten all about
the ring, but he didn't appeal either to the spectators or to a referee to stop the
fight on the ground that it was brutal, nor did he ask to have tho rules changed.
Ho took his punishment. Even when beaten like a dog he was a game dog.
"When forced to take refuge in a trench, when too badly used up to carry
the fight to the enemy, he hung on without whining, fought oft" every attack, bided
his time, endured without wincing, worked witout flagging."
-j nBIW
price one enure '
"JOE, MY JOE, COME
TO ME,"MRS.LE DUC
WAILS TO HUSBAND
"Will You Take Me Back?"
Hotel Tragedy Victim
Asks
SAYS, "OF COURSE, I WILL"
QUICK NEWS
PHILLIES 0 30
BROOKLYN.... 0 0 1 "
Alexander and Killefer; Ghcney and Miller. Klcm and Emsllc.
WASHINGTON 0 0 0 0
ATHLETICS... 00 10 '
Ctolllu anil Il'iKjr; labors mid Suann.
Continued on fate Seven. Column Ono
CARIUNZA AGENTS REPORTED
. ON WAY TO ADVISE CONFEREES
t -
iWill Watch Negotiations at Atlantic
( City, Is Belief
' ATLANTIC CITY. Sept Z8.A report
--- - ".nu .juaricr uecjares mat
t!7 Jlxls.Bndln" two representatives to
' . . wuwi wim me Mexican
!rRatlon whl ' t0 begin its meetings
O0 on MonAnv
Carranw has directed his emissaries to
jWPresa upon the Carransista delegates that
uL T H "'"" "p aiscuseion or matters
-- . -- .vi, uul uno momentous
h? iBno fn ngTTque'tUm affecn the Inten-
to M 1 ""'" oiaiea as to lis soldiery
THE WEATHER
FORECAST
JV Philadelphia and vicinity
Srkfi.m.MB"d tonht fld Frt-
mlHV ?hr FridV; fresh south
m imthwett winds.
IX 'its
UWQTH OC DAT
6M a, n. I
.' ' ' ' I," .4.t p, a.
wbm HIVHK TU1K CHANGHS
K CHKOTNUT BTR1WT
jraHvaKAvwHw at hack imuk
CONTRASTS FOE'S ATTITUDE
Lloyd George's eyes Snapped, as sitting at
his desk In tho War Office he tilted back
his chair and studied the celling as If
seeing there a picture of Tommy's game
fight In the early stages of the contest.
"And at this time, under these conditions,
what was tho winning German doing?" he
asked. "Was he worrying over the terrible
slaughter? No. He was talking of annex
ing Belgium and Poland as a result of his
victory,' and while he was remaking the
map of Europe without the slightest regard
for the wishes of Its people, the British
people were preparing to pay the price we
knew must be paid for the time to get the
army ready,
"It Is one thing to look back on the
pounding the British soldier took the first
two yeara of the war, but a different thing
to look forward, as he did not know the
beating couldn't be avoided during these
months when It seemed the finish of the
British army might come quickly.
MUST BB A "KNOCKOUT"
"Germany elected to make It a finish
fight with' England. The British soldier
was ridiculed, held in contempt. Now we
intend to see that Germany has her way.
Continued on Taie SoTtn. Column F!e
MAJOR RAMSAY, DU PONT
VICE PRESIDENT, DIES
Was Chief Engineer of Con
struction Plant Harf Built
Many Explosive Plants
WILMINGTON. DeL. Sept 21. Major
miui.m rinuvemeur lUmsay. vice president
and director of the du Pont Powder Com.'
pany and chief engineer of its constructive
department, died suddenly here today. He
was the principal factor In the physical
development of the du Pont plant, caused
by the extraordinary demands put upon
it by the European war,
Major Itamsay entered the service pf
the du Ponts In Hit. He built many
oxploslve factories throughout the country
and was engVged In the construction of
a plant in Montana which will be named
Ramsay, In his memory. He had some 00
men -on hU acUve ta and 10.000 work,
meu under him enraged in actual con
truotki work. He was ma4e a director
aad a a vIm prMt Ut
Tkf Hat H fcpy t the
yiMBJMWj M. !,
NEW YORK GIANTS
WIN TWENTY-FOURTH
CONSECUTIVE VICTORY
Tesreau Hurls Shut-out Ball
Against Braves in Opening
Game of Today's Double-Header
FINAL COUNT IS 2-0
POLO GROUNDS, N. V Sept. 28. New
York continued Its great winning streak
this afternoon by taking the first game of
tho double header from the Boston Driven.
Tho score was two to nothing. This Is the
twenty.fourh consecutive victory for Mc
Graw's rejuvenated club. 4
Jeff Tesreau pitched magnificent hnll nnrt
was not In grave danger In any inning ex
cept me nrst, when the Braves beiran hv
loading the bases with one down. However
at this Juncture Tesreau tightened, re
tiring Smith on a pop fl and Magee on a
fly to the outfield.
The Giants scored first In the fourth on
Dave Robertson's home run Into the right
field stand New York'a second run came
In the sixth. Robertson scored this run
also on a wild throw by Maranvllle after ho
had reached first on a fielder's choice and
third on Zimmerman's single.
PinST INNINO
Collins singled to rlghtj Maranvllle sin
gled over second. Connolly popped to Kelly,
Konetchy was safe on Herzoga muff or
Fletcher's perfect throw. Smith popped to
Zimmerman Magee out to Robertson. No
runs, two hits, one error.
Burns wa out, Rudolph to Konetchy
Herxog singled to short center, . Robertson
lined to Connolly, who threw to' Konetchy
doubling up Henog at first. No runs, one
hit, no errors.
SECOND INNINO
Egan was easy for Herzog and Kelly
Gowdy struck out. Rudplph also fanned
No runs, no hits, no errors.
Btmmerman went out, Rudolpl to Ko
netchy, Fletcher fouled to Gowdy. Kauff
wa retired, Maranvllle to Konetchy. No
runs, no hits, no errors.
THIRD INNING
Collins struck out. Fletcher tossed out
Maranvllle. Connolly went out the same
way. No runs, no hits, no errors.
XUy douWod to H JUU Uuat. Mc
Oarty saoriee4, HudrisA to Xwuiehy.
'fOJWfau Mt to Kaaa, who tcwaw et XeHs
JOSEPH C. LE DUC
He arrived from Chicago today to
visit his wife in the Jefferson Hos
pital, following the hoteltragedy '
of Wednesday morning.
Miss Ann McAndrcws, sister of Mrs.
Harry BcJzcr, who shot and killed J.
C. Gravcur, wqunded Mrs. Joseph C.
Le Due and then killed herself at the
Hotel Walton early Tuesday morning,
said today that her Bister nnd Gravcur
were engaged to be married and that
Gravcur attempted to break the engage?
mcnt about three wtecks ago. She de
clared that the engagement was known
to their intimate friends only. Miss Mc
Andrcus said also that her sister had
taken steps to get a dhorce from her
husband, who is now in Panama, on the
grounds of desertion. Miss McAndrcws
made the statement at the Morgue, after
identifying her sister's body.
Absolute faith In his wife was borne out,
according to the police, by tho latest devel
opments In jestorday's shooting at the
Hotel Walton, upon tho arrival today of
J, C.jLo Due, wealthy Chicago clubman
nnd golfer, whose wife was wounded by
Mrs Harry Belzer, of Now York, when she
shot nnd killed Joseph C. Graveur, a New
York garage owner, and then committed
suicide.
Investigation today, according to detec
tives, Indicated: '
That Mrs. Le Duo did not accompany
Graveur to this city, but met him here.
That It was Mrs. Belzer,' not Mrs Le Due,
who registered at the hotel with Oraveur.
That the tragedy occurred when Mrs. Le
Due and Oraveur, who had been on the roof
garden of the hotel, stopped by the latter's
room on the ninth floor to get Mrs. Le Due's
handbag.
The description of the woman who regis
tered with Graveur corresponds with that
NATIONAL LEAGUE
BOSTON.lstg O OOOOOOOO-O 6T
NEW YORK O O O 1 O 1 O O X- 2 6 1
Rudolph nnd dowdy; Tesicau and McCarty.
i;OSTON,2dg. ...OO -
NEW YORK o 1
Rngan nnd t!owdy; Sckupp au,i McCarty.
AMERICAN LEAGUE
NEW YORK o O O '
BOSTON , O 1 '..". ' -
riogiidge r.nd Walters; Mays aud Cady.
CHICAGO '
CLEVELAND Postponed Rain -
TODAY'S RACING RESULTS
First Woodbine race, Stockbildge plate, $600 added, maiden
2-ycar-olds, 5 1-2 ui longs Stniter, 108, Pickens, ?8.86, $4.10, $2.00,
won; Beauty Spot, 103, Giay, $5.30, $3.40, second; Blight and Tarly,
103, Robinson, $20, third. Time, 1.08 2-5.
Tirst Havre fle Grace race, selling, 2-year-olds, . 5 furlongs
Mother Machree, 104, Louder, $10.70, $6.60, $4.00, won; Kentucky
Boy, 107, Schuttlnger, $8.50, $4.80, second; Old Drury, 100, Troxler,
$0.20, third. Time, 1.08 3-5.
MASTER BAKERS URGE EMBARGO ON WHEAT
CINCINNATI, Sept. 28.-W. H. KeiboTT, cccietary of the Tri
State Master Bakers' Association, including Ohio, Indiana and Michi
gan, today said that tesolutlons adopted by tho association had bceu
torwaidcd to President Wilson urging him to call special j,cs&lou o
Congress to place an embargo on the expoitatiou of wheat. '
Continued on I'ate Thirteen, Column Two
TWO MEN SURRENDER
AS RICHTER'S SLAYER
GREECE DISAVOWS RESPONSIBILITY FOR NEWS
BERLIN, Sept. 28. Tho Greek Minister to Germany has ofllcjally Informed the
Foreign Offlco of tho abolition of tho Greek censorship. Ho stated that tho Greek
Government consequently declines responsibility for all new from Greece. (Cable
dispatches from Athens via London last wc,ek stated that the Allies have taken
complete charge of the news censorship in Greece.)
OIL ADVANCES TEN CENTS AT PITTSBURGH
PITTSBURGH, Sept. 28. A ten-cent advance in oil was announced today, Penn
sylvania crude advancing from $2.30 to 2 40. All of the eastern grades were ad
vanced ten cents with tho exception of Ragland, which advanced five cents to .80,
Mercer (black), Newcastle, Corning, Cabell nnd Somerset are the other grades
affected by tho advance.
Tell Detectives They Believe
They Fired Fatal Bullet
in Target Practice
CuMnml race IHilua,
h
Two men, .who believe they accidentally
shot and killed William Rlchter, of 2SC5
South Hancock street, surrendered them
selves to Detective Belshaw in the City
Hall today. They are William C Campbell,
fifty years old, of Slit South Mole street,'
and Daniel Illty, sixty-four years old, of
207 North Second street, Darby,
The police believe that the story which
the men tell fully explains the mystery
which surrounded the death of Rlchter laBt
Sunday, who was shot to death on his
front doorstep while holding; his little
daughter. Since that time the efforts of
the police to connect anyone with the
shooting; proved fruitless until both men
walked into the detective bureau this morn
ing. They told Detective Belehaw that on Sun
day they were shooting at a target placed
In the grounds of the Pennsylvania Salt
Manufacturing Company, at Second and
Shunk streets, and believed that a stray
shot fired by one of then) probably killed
nichter. The gun which they were using
at the time is of the tame caliber as that"
of the bullet which ended the life of Rlchter.
After telling their story in the Detec
tive Bureau, they were arraigned before
Magistrate Pennock in th Central Station
and held to await the action of the Coroner
As the evidence points' to a purely accl
dental death, the Coroner allowed the men
to be rlM4 ta the parole of their attor
y'4NU SohcAeM. until tomorrow mora
lac " a jUmtust lai) tU death tf
MONEY LENDERS CONVICTED OF USURY
A rule of ten per cent per month on a loan of $25 was chargoJ, according to
witnesses, by Albert W. Sholler, who, with H. Matthias Pudcr nnd Leon W. Short,
professional money lenders, was tried this afternoon before Judge Davis in Quarter.
Sessions Court. Puder and Short charged lower rates, which, however, also were
exorbitant. The men offered no defense and the Jury returned a verdict of guilty,
On on J, Roberts, the defendants' attorney, made a motion for a nw trial on the
ground that the money Ioanders' act was attacked before Judge Staake. The motion
was refused and Pudor was nned $100 and the costs of prosecution. The other
defendants were admitted to $200 ball, pending the appeal of Puder's case to the
Superior Court.
OKUMA TO RESIGN AS JAPAN'S PREMIER
TQKIO. Sept. 28, Count Okuma, the Japanese Premier, will resign in October,
it was learned today. Tiaron ICato is expected to succeed him. Advanced age
is given as the reason for Okuma's retirement.
FARM' LOAN BANK BOARD ORGANIZES SYSTEM m
WASHINGTON, Sept. 28. Final steps for tho organization of the Federal
farm loan bank system, the first venture of the United States in rural finance,
were begun hero today. The Federal Land Loan Board returned to Washington
after a tour of investigation which has lasted sevoral weeks and settled down to
tho details of organizing the personnel of the now sjBtem The, board hopes to
have its organization in working order by the first of next year. '
MILLERS PREDICT FLOUR AT $10 A BAtfREL
MINNEAPOLIS, Minn, Sept 28 Local millers declare that flour may retail
at $10 a barrel in the near future If whjW prices continue, to rise. A slump in
wheat prices has prevented a further rise in flour, but quotations were Arm at
$8.80 for first patent grades in barrels in carload lots. Flour is $3 a barrel higher
than it was a year ago.
HAWAII SWAMPED BY EUKALELE ORDERS
WASHINGTON, Sept. 28. According to Commercial Agent Taylor, at Honolulu
tho demand for the eukalele, a Hawaiian musical Instrument, is far ahead of facil'
Ities for Its manufacture in Hawaii. At this time last year the demand was for
about 800 instruments a month, but now It calls for 1600 a month. There are eight
factories in Honolulu and many small makers scattered around the Islands.
MILLfON IN GOLD DUST BROUGHT FROM YUKON
SEATTLE, Warti., Sept. 28. The steamship Victoria arrived today from Km
with more than $1,000,000 of new gold. F Bmlth and wife, of the Koyokuk ftistrtct
nsr the moutjrof the Yukon, brought more than $260,00 pf gol4 dtc u jt TMnhM!
aa wife ham tte mw AUtrtct at Marshall, on tke lowar YuImm, ttfeugbt Wjm fcl
OUTSIDER WILL
ADVISE MAYOR
ON TRANSIT
W. Barclay Parsons, Fat
mous New York Engineer, J
Has Been Selected j
CONSIDERING TWO MORSi
Will Endeavor to Work Out De
tails of Agreement with the
P. R. T. Company
J
The outside transit expert whom Mayer
Smith has considered bringing to this oKy'
to assist in wor'.lng put the co-operatlvel
agreement between ihe. municipality and thsj
Philadelphia Rapid Transit Company lsW.
Barclay Parsons, a consulting engineer of'
New York city. Mayor Smith, at his At-f
lantlo City home this morning, admitted
thli to bo true, and at the same time hsl
said he had considered Inviting two other
public utility experts, one from Chicago'
ana one from Doston, to lend further as
slstance.
Mr. Parsons was recommended to th'
Mayor by the Chamber pf Commerce In ths
letter sent by President Howard B. French
last week. In the spring the Chamber of'
Commerce made an effort to have this same'
man brought to make a complete survey
of tho entire transit situation before ths
passage of the transit loan. As their plan
would havo meant months of delay and In
action nnd an Indefinite postponement '
any vote on the tranult loan, It did not meet
with approval from any one Interested In
the prompt solution of the city's transit
problems.
OPPOSE TATLOIl PACT
The Hrst Intimation that the officials of
the transit company are now offering op
position to tho use of the tentative agree
ment, worked out by former Transit Di
rector A. Merritt Taylor, as the basis for
renewed negotiations, was also given by th
Mayor In the course of his interview.
"The P. IL T. officials," he explained,
"say that the 1007 agreement was the only
one ever made between themselves and ths
city and they assert further that the sub
sequent proposals for an agreement, made
by Mr. Taylor, wcro never ratified' by them.;
While maklne no comment uoon th vlw
of the transit officials the Mayor said, that'
this tentative agreement could not be used
now in its original form,, as It did not pro-1
'vide for the lines as they are to be built.
The Taylor plan of construction, however,
the Mayor gave his renewed Indorsement
with the comment:
"I am determined upon one thing. That
Is to have the Taylor plan followed out
and to have It followed out In Its entirety."
CONFERENCE AT NOON
Whether or not Mr. Parsons alone or Mr.
Parsons and two other? experts are to be
Invited to this city now was to have been de
cided at noon today at a conference between
the Mayor and the two other city represen
tatives on the Philadelphia Rapid Transit
directorate, William Hancock and Colonel
Sheldon Potter. The Mayor, however, has
postponed the meeting until early next week.
The Major frankly admitted that he was
not a transit expert, and this was the rea
son, he said, he wished to call in outside
help in order that things might be guided
right and that the ultimate solution of the
transit question would mean "efficient serv
ice for the public, a paying proposition for
the operator and a monument to the pres-i
ent administration '
"Mr. Taylor, who himself was an expert,"
the Mayor observed, "called In expert opin
ion before he drew up his final plan or agree-v
ments, and as I am not a transit expertVv
there Is Just so much more reason why If V
should call In expert opinion In order that
the best possible plan may be worked out
for tho city."
WORK ON TENTATIVE PLAN
The Mayor made It clear that no matte
what the experts might propose they would
be acting only In an advisory capacity an4
that neither himself nor his two fellow
members on the P. R. T. board would be
bound to accept what the expert or the ex
perts might work out Even It an entire
draft were worked out by these outsteps
men, he said. It would only be tentative un
til It had been given the proper considera
tion by the local officials.
In discussing the fact that the Chamber
of Commerce had made the suggestion of
Invltlna Mr. Parsons and that their letter
had been withheld from publication, ths
Ma) or said he thought the men who seat
the letter should have given It out ths
selves, as the transportation cowvmitUe of
the United Business Men's Aiwoclatkm dial
with their letter sent the following eVay.
Thcre was no significance In the faaf that
he had delaed giving out the lettar far
publication, he pointed oUt.
Krusen Lifts Civil Servtee Bar
At the request of Director Xrvs tfc
Department pf Health, nurses aa e4srttaa
whoso, salaries do not exce4 J50' a r'
will 'be placed in the exempt- slass lay ks
Civil Service Cwtmtos'on. Tim
difficulties eoeoutttersd in afeUlwlssT
and ordsrllea far te lafantM
campaign and iter ssrylM ta tfss
wards of eMy WtUtlo Is tc
given by ptfestsr Xrusea tai
request that Ms sshUs si'i
enter the atty ssrvtas wiakptst ths
rsstrMlotrf tasWsnt U
ffi
)
tltjmm Im Ctiy Triiim
tTh. tusV MAAiAkHAn . f4hr W . -AS
William shows that tb rimlW
imwIM to 1TM1..H, and the rnnsa?!
V ;,.-.--, wM-wn, wiui lilt MSBj fJB.
MM ttttl was. MX including Uw
fssg, MCt haJanea uu UsjkI of 14VJ
Pe" vjPv "JaW VHP
