Do You Play Pok er?
Read Lewis's famous Stories
Every Sunday in the T.-D.
fJiclimonii CuneS-JHspatdj
Sports for All
Experts Cocer Every Branch
for The Times-Dispatch.
*<)th YEAR
vomi.ml: imi
NI.'.M IIKIi 278
RICHMOND, VA., THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1916. ?FOURTEEN PAGES.
\vi;.vrin-:it
i' \<;i: ??
-UNSETTLED
PRICE, TWO CENTS
(HOWITZERS ARE
ORDERED TO TEXAS
| Four Batteries of Virginia Fieid
Artillery Included in Troop
Movement.
BLUES ARE TO BE SENT LATER
[Department Officials Reiterate
Announcement That All State
Units Will See Service.
[Special t<? The Times-Dispatoll.]
Washington. i> ?'.. September .7.
? -Secretary "f War Maker to-day or
dered the First Hattallon and Mattery
C, Virginia National Guard, to proceed
|'o t>i?? Mexican border at unci' as a part
>f a fope iP-'If^iK-'l tu i ?? 1 i<? \ ? ? lO.OO'i
|'r, 1 lit iamrn ordered bono foi <b mobili
zatIon. Nearly a seme of other Stale
? ommands were ordered to tit* border
at llie same tin
General l.eotiard Wood, ????inuiatiditig
the Kastern I ?<-p.? i i no n t. ?'!!.? instruct -
? d b\ the War Department to arrange
as Speedllv pos::; hie foi the move
ment of tin Virginians The army
<iiiart? rnia:-?t> i s were directed to pro
|\? ncccKsiir) transportation It was
I:-fated at the department tills afternoon
Mhat the Virginia ;?rt lllerynieti should
!>e on their way South within a week.
|i:\ ri:? i iii.i i:s tm mi:
m.n i ki iioi(i>i-:i< i.vrr.K
The destination of lie Virginians
will .e left entlrt 1; U> General Flnston,
comma tiding all the troops on the bor
Ider. 11 ?* had not advised the ?l'*j>Mt t
|m? i:' to-da" where woiii?] send
either ti" I* i * > I lt:(ttallon or Battery
'' 'llin eh to e.- ar? it was said, that
the t \\ o com hi i ntls would jolll the same
?' oil .11 " ilt'oba b I y o . 11 y the M.I III"
< .11 it p
An effort w.is made to-d.iy by The
"i"11t.? - 1 >is,i.i t< ., i.i respoiiib nt to b arn
the disposition of ? ie 151 lies' I'avnlry.
|tiow |ti cainp at Richmond War De
?artincrp. ollinals would rot say
|whctlict </i not any plan had been made
send the-, i av:< 1 rmen to (be hoi -
r in tile n. il f ?; t . r ? It was -tated,
Ihowever, tli it the department expects
| to (lyo all ?J>e State unit1- a HOA Hon -f
field s er v i <e Tlr-' may be taken to
Inie.in that the Hlucs will sooner or
later be sent to the border.
|llll7? I A I. (l.tlM:i<N Ml I
yi:t i?i:: i-:i\r.n m < \mi?>ti \iit
Reports to the effe< t that tin Field
| A rt tilery at Cu tup Stuart had been or*
'i e-! by t:,. War Ivpa ttui-iit to pro
?<<1 to Tu i- ejit oilb-ers and mc.
Ion the alert yesterday, but Oflicia 1 or
ders wei e not received. About 11
| o'clock yesterday morning the rumor
"itched camp that the 'Slues had been
dered to the border < >ther storleH
f'db w ed, addl . v: t <? a i.d contrad'etins;
the first. ; nt 11 :t was finally agreed
that the artillery had actually been
mentioned sn a Wa: I ><-pa 11 ment ord'r.
which had not y.?t filtered through the
strata of r.rfi li/.atio:. d<\v i, ti. the
.1 in p
"A general order I.as I issued by
the I ?epartmeiit." explained Lieut.ma nt -
< olonei Sa loin oils'ky, commander of
| Catnp Stuart. "We y,.t all our ortleia
from the K.intern Department, at Gov
ernors Island, N. T. Now that the War
Department has commanded the shift
inn of troops. the Mas tern Depa rt imnt
will ditect 'he individual State nigan
ia<ti?'iis to move when it suits It
may bi- several days befoie we ^i-t the
until t . ell t ra i n.
"It iially looks lik< t!:< soldiers were
i: oina to ^'et away, said Adjutant
Gene a! W. W Sale last iiiuht. "We
'.rive t uot ;my ordes to to, but I
don't suppose the War Department
would atve out the i- nnniand unless it
',v is the intention actually to move the
t roups.
"Tin l ist aid SitoimI llegimcnfs
will probably not be brought back im
mediately. .Most of the organi/.atioiis
being ordered to the border now are
not of the infantry branch. We can't
tell absolutely . of course, but I believe
?t will be several weeks before the
Virginia icl" n ieti t s now in Texas are
brought hue).
fill IMIIIMI, Milt t'4ll.l\. HAMPTON
nn I'oiitsmoi tu -*ii-:n i.oim;
The Field Artillery named in the
War Department order comprises the
First Maltuliou. consisting of Mattery
A, the Ki hinond Howitzers, commanded
hy Captain William M. Myers: Dattery
R, the Norfolk Mines, commanded by
Captain I'aul KeAr, and Mattery D. of
Hampton, commanded by Captain F. W.
Conch, and. in addition, the unattached
Flattery <the Grimes Mattery, of
Portsmouth, lommanded by Captain I.
Rranch .lohnsoii. The First Mattalion
numbers eighteen oflicers and 1L'1 men.
and Mattery (' numbers five oflicers
and 1-- men. Major T. M. Wortbani
otniuauilsSlir field artillery.
Mattery C is fhe only orguni?.ation
in .amp which has not yet been mus
tered into the Federal service. The
delay has been caused by lack of tho
minimum number of men. Recruiting
has brought tbe battery up almost to
the required strenirth. and orders re
* eivei 1 yesterday permit enough men
who enlisted for the infantry to be.
transferred to Mattery C to permit its
i.einir taken into the Federal service.
I'nly a few men will have to lie trans
ferred. The battery will lie mustered
into the Federal service, within tho
i,ex I few days.
runups IIKA1IV TO MOVIC
AT SIIOItT XOTICK
The soldiers at I'nmp Stuart are
ready to move almost instantly on no
lice, although army regulations pro
vide that no troops shall entrain until
seventy-two hours after orders to pi
have been received. Ten days' rations
.sre kept In store at all times by the
camp quartermaster, so that there will
be no danger of food shortage when
ever fhe trip may lie made. Winter
clothing for all the men has* not yet
been supplied, but that is practically
she onlj equipment lacking.
Delays in getting started after the
(Continued on Third Page.) *
Mreklenhurc Counfs" Fair. CliH*e CMy.
Oi tolier 3 to F. Ilound-trlp fare from Jilch
mund, {3.10, October 1 to 6. Return limit
Cot. 8. VI* SOUTHERN RAILWAY.?Adv.
6,000 Guardsmen
Ordered to Border
Virginia Field Artillery Among
Unils Thai Arc Soon
to Move.
WASHINGTON. September 2V.?Some
0,000 national guardsmen from thirteen
States ami the -^'istriot of Columbia
were ordered to lite Mexican border to
day by tin* War I icpar'tiiienl. and at
tiic Manic time Major-' Senerai Funston
was directed t? ? select I ft.000 troops now
on tii" border patrol for return to 'heir
home States to lie mustered out of the
Federal service.
To-day's order will send South vir
tually all of the nnard.smen now in t ii??
mobilization camps of 111*? States named,
and will have only about 10,000 Stat?i
troops in .til t be country that have
1 not seen service on the border.
Within a short time the remainder
probably will l?e ordered out. releasing
'"more of tiie organizations now under
Ceneral i'unston's command The
gradual ri'turn and mustering out or
all tin guardsmen tiien is expected to
bet! j o.
"i h< or-Mn:z.tti.>ii* oidered south ? >
' da ' mi 1 ? i? I? ?
Field Hitillery Cattery A. New
Hampshire; lotteries 'N and .1 Third
I'cmiHvlvania; Mattery A, District of
Columbia; First ltattalion and ltattery
?Virginia; Third New York Regiment;
j Jtatterlc* A and <\ Alabama; First Hat?
jtalion. OeorRia; itatteries 10 and I*, i'iii
nectictit; Itatteries A and it. Michigan;
1 First Iteuimcnt <less Second l'.attaliop?
Minnesota, and Itatteries 1! an?l Colo
rn do.
Infantry ? Second Florida I'iegi inert
and Third Distibt of Columbia lleui
ment.
Cavalry?Troop A. District of Co
lumbia
Kngineei s?Company A. California.
SHIPMENTS OF BREADSTUFFS
I
Ini'rrHtr of More 'I'llnil Jjt.'.OOIl.OllO for
Auciml, lull Drcri'luar of !fs|l.:t27.IS t
for Kite h t - M on 11> Period.
W A S II I N U T <J N. Septombei :.7 -
'American shippers exported S2S3.Ill,723
worth of breadstuff* during the ? ight
months endiiitr August 31. according to
an analysis of August trade Issued to
day by the Department of Commerce
That was a decrease of 5vl'..127,i>l.1 from
the same period a year a^<<; but August
??>.|?orts of J :t-t.i;?7,Of.i7 represented art
increase of more than 55,000.000 ovei
August of 1 'j 1 5. Meat and dairy prod
ucts exported in August showed an in
cjease -if $2,000,000 over the previous
August
One of the largest export yains was
in nasoiine and naphtha shipments
whose total for the last eitrht months
whs more than double that for the
same eight months a year aK<>. Th?
August total was 55,00't.OOO creator
than for August. 1 *? 1
GERMAN REPORT ON AIR RAID
lirltish \ ii \ ii I llj.se of I'urtxintilltli ii ml
>1 illtnr> l/? In )il l?b men f * llonilitirdcd.
\ceurdlng rat tlerlin.
i'.KI'.l.lN. September 27 ? >? Sayvillei.
The llr i11m)i naval lia-e of f'oi tsmo.jrh
.-.nil military establishments mar th"
mouth of the Th;'mes: and at North
Shields, Kinroln and Derby were at
tacked by the Zeppelins which raided
Hi.gland on Monday nltrht. the Ad
m:ralr> announced to-day. The ??Tib ial
account follows:
"On tin- night ot September 25-28
veral Herman airships lombarded e\
t. nsively ami with vi.?ibb success with
??xplo.?ive and incendiary bom: s the
Knglish naval port of Portsmouth, for
tified places near the mouth of the
Thames, and industrial and railroad es
tablishments of military importance i:i
Kngland. including North Shields. l-in
\ < oln anri Derby. The airships returned
unharmed, notwithstanding strong at
tacks of antiaircraft suns'
! DIVIDEND OF 100 PER CENT
Second of I.ike Vmount Declared lit 10.
\\ . Hlls* Company, of \rw
\ ork. TliI* A ear.
NKW YOHK. September 27. The K.
W. P.liss Company, manufacturers of
shells and torpedoes, has declared an
extra dividend of 100 per cent In cash
on the common stock. This was the
second 100 per cent dividend tIlls year.
The company last year earned S5,.
.'??I^.onn. the equivalent of more than
?435 per cent on the 51.-50.000 common
stock. Si-ice January 1. 220 1-1 per
cent lias been declared, including ex
tras of 11 1-i per cent each in March
and June.
THE CARPATHIA DAMAGED
l.iner ItrfuriiH fo Doek \fter bailing
for Ni?it York, nnd 'I'rlp I*;
t 'aneeleil,
idYKItPOOI,. September 27.?The I'u
j nard liner Carpathia, which sailed for
I New York yesterday, returned to her
i dock here to-day. and her sailing has
? been canceled. The passengers will k<\
forward on another steamer.
llVMAiiKO DM! OF IIF.lt
I'ltOIM-'.I.I.KIt III.A DKS
NKW YOHK, September 27.?The ("u
nard liner Catpathia. which returned to
her pier in Liverpool to-day, damaged
I one of her propeller blades, according
to advices received by the local agents.
BIG INCREASE IN EXPORTS
Shipment* On! of Ne? 1 iirk for AugiiMt
Total $157 l?'ir>r,St;^, Compared With
Sin,P7l.r..*il Same Monfli l.nst Year.
NKW YOI'K, September 27.?Kxports
from the port of New York for August,
101 K, totalled $271 ,.157,862, as compared
with $141.071,55-1 for the same month
in 1915, according to a compilation is
! sued to-day at tlie customs house.
imports entered for consumption
without duty amounted to 580.3S2.777,
while imports entered for consumption
dutiable were 5.111:1.1,S05, as compared
with $45,088,777 entered free, and
521,tiS4,i:i2 entered dutiable during the
same month last year.
I TO DISCUSS ISSUES
RAISED BY HUGHES
President Will Handle Political
Situation "Without Gloves"
, in Speech on Saturday.
MORE ACTIVITY IN FUTURE
Chairman McCormick Optimistic
Over Outlook From Demo
cratic Standpoint.
P. It A .w n. N. .1. September
27.-Issues raised by Charles K Hushes,
'?'?publican nomi nee for President, will
he discussed by President Wilson hero
Saturday in his first purely political
since 1?i?-* address accepting 'lie
f'nominat ion. Administra tion oflb.-ials
-.till to-night that when lie appears
'r" " members of Young Men's
Democratic flubs at Shadow Dawn the
I r evident will handle the political sit
tiatioti "without chives."
It was declared that following .yat
urdn>'.? speech there will be more po
litical activity on the part of the Presi
?1'? nt He has not fully developed his
views on the Arlaiiisoii law. it was de
clared, and. in addition, is planning
either on Saturday or soon afterward
to speak on sect ionalism. Mexico and
'he prohlen<s ? .? 11?-orl hy the European
\ "''legation of nearly 'j.finn
voijfig I if iiti>cr.its is expected here oil
special tr.tins Saturday to hear tiie
President s speech. The public will be
admitted to the grounds for the occa
sion.
' hairtnan Met ??>rmlel< came here to
night and discussed political plans with
the President. !(?? remained overnight,
aid will talk with Secretary Tumulty
to-morrow morniti::
t?? \ki-: ni?i :k? m i >
i\ m:\\ voiik statu
It w.is definitely statc^l that Presi
dent \\ : lso:i ill malic one or more
speeches in New York State. This;
announcement followed the visit of Mr.
McCormick and of Samuel Sea bury.
Democratic candidate for Governor of
New York. No dates or places have
been arranged.
Mr. McCormick arrived here express
ing optimism over the political outlook
from a Dcmocrath standpoint. He
brought with him .< large number "f
lettors and telegrams from Democratic
leaders in different parts of the coun
try. He said the situation in New York
S'.ite was particularly favorable to the
Democrats.
Details of his trip io Chicago on
October 19 were also taken up. but no
announcement was made regarding it.
In addition to discussing politics with
Mr McCormick and with Walter Lip
man, of the New Bepublic, tlie Presi
dent cave consideration to the appoint
ment of severa 1 of the commissions and
boards created by the last session
< 'oncress I? was learned that amonir
tlie men beit>t> most seriously consid
ered for the Tariff Commission ate Pro.
fessor Frank W Taussig, of Harvard,
and William I. Saunders, of New Jer
sey. Bernard N. Maker, of Baltimore,
was said to be almost certain of ap
pointment on the shipping hoard.
W 11.1,1 \ .M S TO Till It
middi,p \vi:sTi:n\ stvtks
''II ICAiiM, September 'J7.?Senator
John Sharp Williams, of Mississippi,
to-day conferred with Thomas Walsh,
manager of the Western Democratic
national headquarters, on the progress
of the campaign preparatory to begin
ning a speaking tour in behalf of Wil
son and Marshall in the Middle Western
States. Senator Williams Issued a
statement deploring the alleged attempt
of certain Republican leaders to inject
se?-t ionalism into the national cam
paign and denying that the South con
trols the present Congress.
REDFIELD SEES SHIPPERS
Tliey Consider Mcimurc* Vuainsf Hut.
I on (I I hi; \ cxmcIm nntl Improper \ r
r.incrmrntH of Hulklienils.
(Special to The Times-Dispatch. 1
WASHINGTON, September "7.? Sec.
retary of Commerce Kedfield met to
day with representatives of American
shipping concerns in order to consider
measures against overloading vessels
and the itnpioper arrangements oT
bulkheads. It was decided that inter
national co-operation in a set of uni
> versa I regulations would he invoked,
i Stephen Taylor, president of tiie Naval
Architects and Marine Engineers' As
sociation: Alfred C,. Smith, president
j of the Cuban Mail Steamship Company,
and Homer Ferguson, president "f the
Newport News Dry-Do k and Shlp
. '? 'iiblint; Company, were delegated to
appoint a committee of seven experts
who will review the situation and r< -
poi t back to Mr. Kedfield.
? ire,it Britain has made a s ir\c\ nf
shipping conditions, ami a<lopted regu
lations. It is expected the American
committee will recommend these for
universal adoption.
TOBACCO FOR GREAT BRITA.N
(linage In Itcuiilnt Ion* Will \ I Inn Prac
tically Vormiil Import*
From America.
W ASI11 NtSTON, September 27.? ("real
j Britain' has withdrawn regulations for
i the importation of cigar tobacco which
American growers have declared would
ruin their business, and authorized inv
I ports on tlie basis of those in 10i:t. Iftll
and IMS.
Consul-! icnera I Skinner al l.omlou
cabled tlie State Department to-day of
the change.
The original regulations governing'
j imports of cigar tobacco between June!
I. 1915, and May 31, 1017, were based
: on the amount that the importer had
brought in ljiir>, a war year in which
imports were small. The new order,
j according to Department of Commerce j
ollicials, gives authority for practically)
normal imports of American tobacco
into Ureal Britain.
The tobacco affected comes largely
from Florida. Connecticut, Wisconsin
and Pennsylvania.
1'ar Less Than 125,000 Unionists
Respond to Call, Accord
ing to Police.
FEW ATTEMPTS AT VIOLENCE
Actual Situation Confused Because
of Jewish Holidays, Which
Are Being Celebrated.
Xh\\ \ i tl:l\. Scple-iihe: 'J7. Although
I.ill'.,- insisted to-nig lit Hint the
general strike i.f | rado-unionists in l hr
city in aid of.the cjirninii who
?juiet theit places September >'? event
ually would involve .'it least a half
j:ii! 1 ion worl\?-i?. there were no surface
imil<-;i11<>n- ,| ije.up nf Hie city's in
dusti ????. threatened, after announce
rnetit w :?1 Til I le to-day 111 f > C the Strike
had 'ii'tiin
While ti:? ? in on trailers claimed that
I2.<.0f'O workers in various trades al
ready had Joined t {jr* movement. with
twice s :: my more ready to "walk
out to-jnorro w. the police said they
had received j?.. reports to substantiate
any such estimates. The actual- situa
tion. it was -.i,,]. was confused because
of Jewish 1: lidays, which arc being
celebra ted k< <? i? % mote than IOO.'iOO
union workers
Leaders of the Amalgamated Associa
tion of Street ;iii(i |-:ie< tric Railway em
ployees. whose members were on
strike, were encouraged to-nlglit. they
asserted. over the possibility of the
iSrotherhood of Locomotive Kngineers
coittiiisf to their aid. Officials of that
organization notified the Public Service
''ommission dining the day that Theo
dore I' Shouts, president of the Inter
liorough I ?:* i ? i >1 Transit Company, had
refused to see them and discuss al
iened grievances of motormen in the.
? 'HjOov of the Interborough who are
tnemhei s of that brotherhood. Mr.
Shouts de< l.tred to-night. however, that
there were no difficulties between the
tnotormen and the company.
im-:iiso\s ixnu t?:i?
IIV (? ItA.\l> ,11'ItV
The grand jury to-day returned in
? ii. ttuents against fifteen persons ac
cused of rioting during the car strike.
There were fewer attempts at vio
lence to-day. according to the police,
than for a we* k past.
Among the organizations which had
voted to strike to-day." according to
those directing the movement, were:
ladles' garment workers. I*r>,000; cloth
ing wo/kets, lo.uoft: painters and dec
orators, 1 : furriers. 15,000; tin
smiths. 10,00"; butchers. 10.000: sta
tionary firemen. 2,500; paper box
makers. 7,00f?; milliners. ?i,O00: jewelry
workers, 3.0?h: brewery workers, fi.oon.
Total, i-on.-.oo.
The leaders asserted that, in addition
to those to <|iiit work lo-dav, they
would be able to call out 100.000 more
daily for :h< next two or three days.
At the last moment it became known
that T. V. ?.?'Connor, national president
of ti>e Longshoremen's t'nion. had de
cided not to call out the 1 *>,000 mem
i.ers of that organization to-day. It
u as stated there was serious doubt
whether he would ask them to take
part in the strike at any time.
The joint labor conference commu
te. iir.ctiiit the strike met this morn
, !! _? to hear r! e reports of the unions
? whose members had responded to the
^! t ike call.
UKULELES POPULAR
llnuniinn Miiiinfnct urers Turning (Hit
I .tain I iiMriintcn ti lOncli .Month to
SitllNfy I'. S. Demniidv.
I <p? lal to The Times-Dispatch.]
W ASIIIXGTOX. September "JT.?Old
Hill Dalle/ plays the ukulele so ar
dently nowadays that Hawaiian manu
facturers are turning out 1,000 instru
ments a month, whereas last year th?
monthly output was but a third of
that amount. The Department of Com
merce said to-day that the eight prln
?pal ukulele manufacturers in Houo
lulu had converted their little work
shops into factories, and were working
?H full speed. The American demand
so grci'. that Hawaii expects to
manufacture Sfi.OOO ukuleles annually.
? ?tie company alone plans to put out
! j,000 monthly. The originator
? f the instrument, a Portuguese, is now
lie.id of a big manufacturing company
Put he keeps on working every day in
his own plant.
BADLY HURT IN AUTO WRECK
< nr l>rl? en l?> llcv. \\. II. K. Pendleton
Turns Turtle, SerioiiMty |ujurliif.
Several of Occupant*.
M'A l: I AXIH 1 !? :. S. <*., September
^ ear driven by Lev. \V. If. K.
Pendleton, rector of the Church of the
Advent of this city, turned turtle to
day near the foot of Windmill Hill, on
the Appalachian highway between *ln
man and t'ampello. i,, n,js enmity, per
haps fatally Injuring .Master Cary Pen
dleton and seriously injuring Mrs. Pen
diet on and Miss I'ta Si to. Mr. Pendle
! ton's two daughters and a little son
I also occupants of the car, escaped with
I minor bruises.
i
I CREW OF ZEPPELIN BURIED
l imernl. \\ liieli |M Hold |,t
Clitircli.viiril, In Scmlnillitiir.v
in t'linrncter.
!'"XI)"X. September L'7. The crew
of the Zeppelin airship destroyed In
Kssex during the air raid Sunday'morn
I ing last were buried in a churchyard
there to-day. The funeral waa scmi
j military In character, and officers of the
Ito.val Plying Corps, including Lieu-'
| tenant W illiiim Lee Robinson, who
j brought down a Zeppelin during the
i raid enrly this month, acted as pnll
1 bearers.
On the coffin of the commander was
tho inscrlptjon: "Killed on Scrvieo. Sep.
tembor 24, 1916."
King Constantino Reported to
Have Surrendered Utterly to
Entente Demands.
ONLY WAY TO SAVE NATION
Both Army and Navy Shattered
by Partisanship Arising From
Continued Uncertainty.
(Special ''able t<> The Times-1 ?? -pat ill. 1
l.OXDON*. September '27. has
decided to enter the war oil the
of the allies, according to news ngem y
dispatches from Athens to-night.
King Constantlne lias surrendered
utterly to the demands of the pro
entente leaders. The King is said to
have made his last staml for continued
neutrality at the Cabinet council, which
hf^an yesterday evenlim and lasted
fur -he creator part of the night. His
wife, the lister of 10mperor William,
was l>y his side at the historic confer
ence. The King's decision came only.
it is reported, after it had been ?dearly
dfi< onstrated to hini that entrance into
the war was the only way to save the
ration, as both army and navy are
shattered by the partisanship arising
from the continued uncertain course nf
Greece.
As a llrst move towards the bringing
of Greece into the theater of hostilities,
it is reported that the Kalotreropoulos
Cabinet will resign. A'royal proclama
tion is expected momentarily in Athens.
The chaotic political situation in
Greece is indicated by dispatches, which
state that the majority of the hiah
officers of the army have gonu over to
Venizelos. the pro-ally revolutionary
? leader, who landed at Cunea, Crete, to
day to head the army of rebels which
has seized that island. In addition, an
unverified report states that three
<'.reek battleships, with all their of
ficers and crews, have none over to
the allies, joining the Franco-I'.ritish
Mediterranean fleet These vessels aic
said to he the I'sara. Spetsai ami
liydria. Kour torpedo-boat destroyers
also are said to liave joined the allied
i armada.
\ i?\ ii-:s i >i >> t:iu ati:
I)i:i I.AltATION OF \\\lt
AT1II0XS. September "?> (via l.ondon,
September 2S: delayed).? King Constan
tine received this morning an exhaus
tive report from General Mosc.liopoulos,
,chief (if the general staff. detailing the
| chaos in the military organizations of
the country caused by the departure
of so many oflicers to join the Anglo-1
French allies and advising the immeili- i
ate declaration of war by Greece with
out waiting either the assistance or the>
I insistence of the entente powers as the j
only way to save the nation.
I'??spite the profound popular be
lr-f that the country is facing thej
| greatest etisis in its history, calm ex-I
' pectancy rciiitis in Athens. The Veni- 1
I y.elift niorninu papers publish deelara- '
j tions, which the former Premier lef. .
prior to his departure, in which h? !
> said the movements he heads are li-'t j
i revolutionary, hilt purely national in |
! character, ami that he has no design j
: on the integrity of actual government
: of the country.
? It is learned that communication be- j
tween the King and M. Venizelos has j
\ already been established through the (
former Minister of War. General Vann- j
kltsas. and that the outlook is favoi - ;
aide (or an early arrangement of the
[ dililculties The greatest blow to King
Constantine has been the departure of i
I Admiral Condon riot is. who. aftet the|
sovereign, is the most distinguished
national hero.
ITIIIII S.WIIo ??!?" I V 11 A It IT A NTS
<;itt:i'.T \ r.\r/.i:i.os
l'AltlS. September 27.? A llavas dis- :
pat. h says M Venizelos arrivetl at Suda j
I'.ay on Monday night, and entered j
Canea, the capital the next day. j
Several thousand <?f tlie inhabitants es- j
corted him in triumph, and he address
ed them from ilin balcony of the bat - ,
racks. Tlice was no disorder i.i the
city, the Itoyalist olllcials and oflicers 1
keeping in ti?e background,
i "M. Vcni/.elos has jinnonnccd that i
he will s. nd out from Crete in a few
I days a proclamation to the Creek poo-;
pic. explaining his attitude and the!
'? necessity of lighting against the F.ui-;
narians The committee of national [
defense will liav. Its headquarters at
Saloniki. probably under the presiden-]
ey of Admiral t'oiidourlotls. M. Veni- j
' /eIos will direct the policy and v'gan I
ly.e and extend the, movement."
_ . . ?
martine beats wescott
Nomination of I'rewent Senator to Suc
ceed Himself Conceded tij III*
(l|>|ioneii t.
TKKXT?'N\ X. ?*?? September '_'7.
With returns lacking from only I4'?
i districts in the State. Walter 10. lOdge
had a lead to-night of - "?"?" votes over
Austin Colgate. his closest rival in
yesterday's three-cornered pritna' v . oil
iest for tlie Itepublicall nominal t for
| t iovernoi The vote was: lOdiso.
Colgate. George I.. Itecord. 2."..
i ?;??.
Forntei State Senator Joseph F. Fre
1 linghiiysen won the Itepublieau noml
i nation for I'nited States Senator from
former Covernor Franklin Murphy.
With only H'l districts missing. Freling
huysen had S?.:t??7 votes, iis compared
with 7for Murphy, giving him a
lead of -iA '?
i The nomination of Senator .lames 10.
j Marline by the Democrats for Foiled
1 States Senator to succeed himself was
conceded by his opponent, Attorney
General John W. Wescott.
Marline's vote, with 17 s districts
missing. was I .'.,020, while Woscott's
WHS 21.5SC.
Steamer 1'lontN l.'iidnmagril.
FUKDRRlKSIf AVION. September 27.?
Tho Norwegian steamer Askolad, from
Baltimore for Anlborg. before reported
nshoro at Lossol, has flouted undam
aged.
Lee's Own flag
Placed in Museum
Emblem hrom Headquarters of
Confederate Chieftain Is
Gift of John /*. Mayer.
At a meeting Of tlx- Donfcdcrntc Me
morial l.itfirary Society. held at the
Confederate Museum yesterday. Crneral
Itobert C I.fo'n headquarters Hay was
presented l<> the museum by John |-\
Alayer. of Itichiiioud. an<l placed In tho,
\ irgiuiu count.
Accompany inu the j|..^ was tlie fol
lowlng 1 ?? 11oi f 1-11111 (|tr ilmior:
iSiehmoud. Va..
.Inly :!. i r> i
Miss Susie I la i i,is.in.
? lOUSC Itegeilt,
? onfeileraie Museum. ?'i t .
De.tr Miss Harrison. At the evneua
tion of the city of ISichmotid. April IS,
1N all the valuable record* of the
adjutant an.I inspeetor-gonernrs ofTlees
were packcd hi r.-tses and forwarded
?v"r ItlHiniotid and Danville rtail
foad t'. i harlot!.?. X. C., where they
were store.) in an olliee just below the
old I 'niteil States Mint IJuilding. With
' l".'.?e r.rnrds was Hcncral ISobert I-:,
l.ee's headquarters I.ox. which lie hail
sent ti. Ki.'hmon.l to he forwarded.
.Inst beiore the surrender at t "har
lot te. .V <;.. of General Joseph K. John
s-ion's army the onicials .? r the Con
federate sovernnient had this box
opened. looking for important papers.
After they had been removed they left,
the attached tlag in the box. and before
the delivery of all the records to the
Federal army I appropriated same to
myself ami hroiiKht it home with me.
and it has been in my possession from
that day to this. Desiring that this
tlair lie preserved, I take meat pleas
ure in donating' it to the I'onfeOcrate
Museum, feeling assured that it will
be well taken care of.
Very respectfully.
t Signed) JOHN I". MAYMi:.
CONFER ABOUT NEW SHIPS
I'rnblr urn Invulvril l)lhcUN?rd by Mentis
??f Sererttl 1'rlvnte Plants \\ It I.
Scerrlnry Itoiinrvrlt.
\V.\.slll?C(iTOy. September 'JT.? Prob
lems involved in .-oust met ion of the
many warships authorized in the new
building program were discussed to
day by heads of several private ship
building plants with Acting Secretary
Itoosevelt. of the Navy Department, and
chiefs of the bureaus interested. Ques
tions of procedure in connection with
the construction bills to he submitted
next mouth were gone over In detail,
and particular stress was laid on the
necessity of completing- liie new ships
within the time limit fixed by the de
part meni.
Mi noose veil announced that, since
the shipbuilders had declared speedy
construction depended principally on
prompt delivery of manufacturing ma
terials. the department had taken up
the subject with steel and other m-iiiu
faottn ers. and hail secured promises
that preference in delivering- would bo
given shipbuilding plants doing gov
ernment work.
rtecause the shipbuildei s are unable
to secure all the insurance desired on
vessels nearly completed b. fore '?vr.ff
turned over to the Navy Department,
some plan <?f protection ftom loss in
case of accident to the new ships Is
under consideration. M ?. Souse volt
said t he department micht decide to
take over the cine of such vessels in
advance of their actual aecep'ance
EXPRESS TRAIN HELD UP
'?a "B of It obiter* Itnnsack Hull and
Itnunnire Cars on \e?v \ ttrU
Chicago l-'ller.
DKTHOIT. Mb MI.. September :'T ?
Michigan Central passenger train Xo.
I I. known as the New York Pliicago
Kx press. bound from t'hicago to De
troit. was held up by a cane of robbers
near Dearborn, ten miles west of here,
late to-night.
After stopping the train by disar
ranging tlie block system, the men un
hooked the mail anil baggage cars from
the rest of the train and drove them
down the track a distance of two miles
Here the*- ransacked both cars. in. lull
ing the registered matter in the mail
car. and escaped after extinguishing
the lire in the locomotive.
The amount of booty obtained will
not he known until the postal authori
ties have checked up on the registered
ma il.
Several a u I ??nude les load..I \\ith po
licemen and deputy shertfl's left De
troit for the scene immediately up.>u
re. ei pt of Word of the hold-up
GERARD ON WAY HOME
\ nierieiin \ iitlinxMiidor to Herman.?
?"?iirii on Ilehitcd \ it eat ion. \\ Itlelt
Will I.list Mioitl 'I'no Hon lit*.
\\ AS It I X< I'l'i ?.V. S.pteml.er 'J7. Sec
retary l.ansitm to-day annoiiiii.il that
.laities \\ . Hcrard. American anthassa
dor to fli rinanv, was en route f,,r
a belated vacation, probably to stay
about two months. Secreatry Orew, of
the embassy, will lie in charge at IScr
lin. Mr. Herar.l has been constantly
on duty for two years. II.- left P.erlln
for I ?open h.igcii with Mrs. Gerard yes-1
tenia >
FALSE TEETH RELEASED
( oiKlKnuirui of too tluxen Atblrewsed to
Herman.* will He Itelurnrd to
A nierlcu by (ireat Britain.
LONDON, Soptetnbcr 27.?In conriec-i
tion with the recent release for the
return to America of a consignment o |
false teeth addressed to Germany, an
olllcial of the Admiralty said to-day
that one of the recent seizures of teeth
consisted of 100 dozen sets, some hnv
ing rubber plates t?nd others composed!
of materials supposedly needed badlyI
in Gonnany, I
LINES BY ALLIES
British Gain Further Suc
cesses in Thiepval Region
and North of Flers.
FRENCH TROOPS ENTER
ST. PIERRE VAAST WOOD
10,000 Prisoners Captured by
English in Last Fortnight's
Fighting on Somme.
I.ITTlil'i XHWS FltOM Till-; KAST
I to rl i ii Itccnrils Repulse of Russian
Attack in (inlk'iit, With
llciivy Losses.
I.? 'X| >? i.\\ September 'J7.?Tito twenty
in i lr> lint I to arc runninir from the Anere
River to the Soinuie is rapidly heiny;
transformed liv the great offensive of
iho entente allies into ;in irregular tr:
anstilar wedge* in tho German lino, with
the bases respect i vely in front of-Thiep
val and west of Poroniie anil the point
projecting across tin- Rcthunc road and
into tlx- St. I'ierro Vaast wood.
<"?n the British end of the line in
the region of Thiepval and Vast ward to
the north of l-'lers the British in Wed
nesday's lighting gained further suc
cesses over the Germans, and likewise
the French. east ;ind southeast of Ran
court. drove their troops forward and
entered the St. I'ierrc Vaast wood.
To the south of this region from
Rouolia vesnes to the southern edge of
the Bols l'Abho farm the l-'rench wero
compelled to face a violent attack by
tho iJernians, which was beaten off. tho
Germans being thrown back in dis
order, according to Paris.
The British gains included German
trenches on a front of "J,000 yards north
of lrlers and a strong redoubt on a
hill L'V'OO yards northeast of Thiep
val. To the northwest, across the
i Ancre. successful raids were carricil
out by the British opposite Beaumont.
1 lainel.
Ten thousand prisoners have fallen
into the hands of the British in tho
last fortnight's fighting on the Sommo
front, according to London.
HKPOILTKI) CAPTI TIKS
TOTAT, OVER H.OOO
i
Belated reports from the British
j front to-day announce the capture of
t between 3,000 and -1,000 Germans by
: General Haig's forces in tho fishting
on Monday and Tuesday. Tho reported
1 captures by the French bring this total
1 \ip to more than 6,000. Unofficial fig
I uros show the aggregate number of
prisoners taken by the Anglo-Trench
armies during tho .Somme offensivo
from July I to date have been 60,000,
with some 130 square miles of terrU
tory and forty-four villages.
i I.ITTI.K .m:\VS CON'CKUMMi
ox eastkiix fiiovi1
Tlu-re is still little news c.ominfc
t from the Russian and Austro-German
war ollices concerning the fighting oil
the eastern front. Petrograd asserts
that, asido from skirmishes at vari
ous points, tliero is nothing to report.
? Berlin, however, rocorda the repulse of
! a Bussian attack in Galicia, near Bu
dova. with heavy casualties to the
Russians.
' On the Roumanian front battles ar?
taking place at various points near tho
Tranaylvanian border. Berlin reports
progress for tho Teutonic allies near
Herniannstadt, while Bukharest chron
icles the defeat of the Austro-Gennan
forces in tho Jiu Valley, and their
hasty retreat north and northwest.
Quiet prevails in the Dobrudja region.
According to tho Bulgarian War Of
fice, the Bulgarians have forced back
the troops of the entente allies' over
the Whole front in Macedonia. Paris,
however, says throo violent Bulgarian
attacks on Kaimakoalan Height \M-r?
repulsed with heavy losses.
Artillery duels continue along most
j of tho Austro-Italian front.
i in tho fighting in Asiatic Turkey,
I Petrograd proclaims successes for the.
| Russians along tho Black Sea. Coast, in
Armenia, near Giumichan. and on the.
Persian front, in the vicinity of Ham
. adan. -
What is to be the final attitude ol*
Grccce in the war is still uncertain.
Tho latest unoflle.lal report from
j Athens, however, is that the Greek
J government, in agreement with King
t'oustiintine, has decided on military
| ,o-operation with tho entente powers.
i:\l)S IN IH-HI1SIVK DUKKA'f
OK <;i-:ioi.\ns AMI III M?AHS
Bl.'K 11A It KST. Monda ?. September
(via l.onilon. September 27).?Details
of the great battle <n tho Dobrudja
front, which lasted from September 17
lo September If. and ended, according
'to General Averesc-o, in the decisive
defeat of the Germans and Bulgarians,
are given in an official statement is
sued by tin- War Office to-day. Tho
statement says:
"The supreme command learned on
September 17 that detachments of our
forces hail been compelled to retira
before superior enemy forces, and wero
falling slowly back, indicting heavy
I losses on the enemy. Measures were
taken to meet the situation and a des?
| perate battle began on a front stretch
ing from the Danube to the Blacic
S'-a.
"The lighting along the Dnnub?,
where enemy columns consisting? most
ly of Germans, endeavored to force
j their way into Chernavoda. This ef
fort was defeated by the splendid re
sistance of the Roumanians, who, with
, repeated bayonet attacks, supported by
tho fire of three monitors |n the river,
. brought the advance of the enemy to
I a standstill.
I "in two days' lighting of the nio.-jt
desperate character the enemy suffered
heavy losses, his massed formation*
iteiug .mowed down by artillery fire.
In the conter he was driven front
trenches which ho momentarily fcuc-.
