THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAB
10 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA THURSDAY MORNING, SEPTEMBER 28, 1916
10 PAGES
.VOL. XIVIL, NO. 132
i take .ten mam cehun reone
8R
A ill)
ALLIES GHAHGE BATTLEARC
F
IT
(By Republican Associated
Tha hattla-arc from the Ancre rivsr
ROM ANG T II
01
formed by the entente allies into an irregular triangular wedge in the Ger-1
man line, with the bases in front of Thiepval and west of Perrone and the I
point projecting across the Bethune road and into the St. Pierre Vaast wood. I
The British in Wednesday's fighting, gained further successes and like
wise the French drove their troops forward and entered the St. Pierre Vaast
wood.
From Bouchavesnes to the southern edge of the Bois L'Abbe farm the
French were compelled to face a violent attack which was beaten off, the Ger
mans being thrown back in disorder, according to Paris!
British gains included German trenches on a front of 2,000 yards north of
Flera and a strong redoubt on a hi 1 12,000 yards northeast of Thiopval.
Across the Ancre successful raids were carried out by the British opposite the
Beaumont-Hamel.
Ten thousand prisoners have fallen into the hands of the British in the
last fortnight's fighting on the Somme front, according to London.
There is little news from the Rut(ian and Austro-German war offices.
Petrograd asserts that there is nothing important to report. Berlin, however,
records the repulse of a Russian attack in Galicia near Ludova with heavy
casualties.
On the Rumanian front Berlin reports progress near Hermannstadt, while
Bucharest chronicles the defeat of Austro-German in the Jiu valley and their
hasty retreat north and northwest.
Mccordinq to the Bulgarian war office, the Bulgarians have forced back
the troops of the entente allies over the whole front in Macedonia. Paris, how
ever, says three violent Bulgarian attacks on Kaimakoalan Height were re
pulsed. Artillery duels continue along most 0f the Austro-Italian front. In Asiatic
Turkey, Petrograd claims successes for the Russians along the Black Sea
coist in Armenia near Giumiohan and on the Persian front in the vicinity of
Hamadan. ....
What is to be the final attitude of Greece in the war is still uncertain.
The latest unofficial report from Athen, however, is that the Greek govern
ment, in agreement with King Constantjne nag decided on military cooper
ation with the entente powers.
2000 Yards of Trenches
LONDON. Sept. 28. German
trenches on a front of 2000 yards north
of Tiers and a German redoubt north
east of Thiepval were captured by the
British during the fighting Wednes
day, north of the Somme, according to
the official communication issueo.
shortly after midnight.
The Greek battleship Hydra has
Joined the nllied fleet, according to a
Renter dispatch from Athens.
There Is an unconfirmed report, the
dispatch adds, that the Greek battle
ships Spetzai and 1'sara and four
Greek destroyers have also joined the
combined Anglo-French naval forces
under Vice Admiral Du Fournet in the
Mediterranean.
German Attack Repulsed
PARIS, Sept. 27. A strong German
counter attack on the new French posi
tions from Bouchavesnes to south of
Hois L'Abbe farm, was repulsed with
heavy losses, according to the official
statement issued by the war office to
night. The French extended their positions
east and southeast of Rancourt and
penetrated St. Pierre Vaast wood.
It does not seem probable that an
other winter cambaign Is avoidable,
says La Liberte. Joseph Thierry un
der secretary of state for subsistence
in the war department, the paper aaas,
has made all necessary arrangements j
for supplying the troops, the garments, i
blankets and other essentials ior win-
ter warfare have been going to the
front at the rate of 80 carloads a day
since September 15.
Italians Occupy Position
ROME, Sept. 27, (Via London.)
Italian troops have occupied a high
nositinn between Menari and Tovo,
west of Monte Cimone, In the Tren
tino region says the official com
munication' issued by the war office
today. In tho Astico valley and along
the Carso, it is added, Austrian artil
lery fire was heavy.
To Co-operate With Entente
LONIhiN. Sept. 28. The council
of Greek ministers has decided, in
agreement with King Constantine,
uiion mlli'orv co-operation with the
entente iKiwers, saye a Reuter dis
patch from Athens dated Wednesday.
W.th the exception of a decision
to co-operate in a military sense with
the entente powers, reported to have
lieen reached by the Greek king and
his cabinet, the disptches received in
London from Athens throw little
light on the Hellenic situation.
The decision is said to have been
the outcome of n conference between
the king, loyal eenerals and the
king cloiest advisers, during which
they elicited a promise that he sign
n d'iroe for a general mobilization
before former Premier Venizelos has
time to rea'h Saloniki.
M. Venizelos, who landed at Canca,
Crete, Tuesday morning, was given
nn enthusiastic recet tion, being es
corted by 10.000 Cretans through the
flnged streets. Replying to a speech
f welcome, M. Venizelos declared
that h;r v.as making his last appeal
to the king. He expressed hope that
at the last moment the king will
conform to the wishes of the nwtiun
and tire people."
Th" territory now under ths dom
ination of M. Venizelos, gays a dis
patch from Athens, includes tho
whole of Greek Macedonia and
Epirus. and also Crete, Chios,- Mity-le-ie
nud Samos.
The Daily Mail's Athens corre-
i-iiii!.-:i i siiyp ne aisairecttop among
tne lireeK officials to M,
continues.
Venizelos
New York-Chicago Express
Held Up
Re-pubUcan A. P. Leased Wire)
nr.TP.oiT. Bept. 27 Michigan Cen-
iu!.-iihit jrain io. 1. Known as
tue New York-Chicago express, bound
from Chicago to Detroit, was held up
by a" gang of robbers near Dearborn,
ten miles west of here late tonight.
After stopping the train by disar
ranging the block system, the men un
hooked the mail and baggage cars from
the rest of the train and drove them
down the track a distance of two
E
Praia Leased Wire)
to the Somme is rapidly being trans
Urges War Declaration
ATHENS. Sept. 20. (Via London,
Sept. 28.) King Constantine received
this morning an exhaustive report
from General Moschopoulos, chief of
the general staff, detailing the chaoj
in the military organization of the
country cansr-d by the departure of
so many officers to join the Anglo
French allies, and advising the im
mediate declaration of war by Greece
without waiting either the assistance
or the insistence of the entente
powers, as the only way to save the
situation.
Premier Knloereropoulos. on depart
ing from n, conference with the king
this morning made this declaration
to the Associated Press: .
"The king can only await the re
ceipt of the entente's demand. It
would be futile to re-arrange the
constitution of the ministry without
knowing that such alteration would
prove satisfactory. We are prepared,
as we have always been, to meet any
Hnoi-Ai, r,f , I . l . I .
m.-in-.-, t-uieilic III m IIIOHL i
cordial spi-it of co-operation. But
we can scarcely be expected to abide
by the ententes wishes." I
lief hat the Zri.T TJ
-iT - i J. : "
greatest criMs in its history, calm ex-.
lijf. LJZl, Atnens- uTe Ven-
i .i l . "
mxvitu ii:uiiiiiik au-l UliLJIlHri (IfSf-
IE
lA I . . 'ne- P"?1" le" Priorlto deny claims 6f saloon advocates
to his departure.
in which he says '
the movement he heads is purely of
national character and that he has
u 1" u '" lne mieirniy or tne
ctu,.al Jovernmnt of the country,
M- . tnizelos declares that his course
is me only way Dy which national
unity mav be preserved.
be ween the 1 in and
it Is learned that rommnniratinn
,,,." mi,,. . , " l"e,dry laws to sell it
orabl
" """J. miU IIIUL LIIB (lllllltfllf la T1V. '
fn- " ' ,
an arrangement of dif-1 (
ferences.
Venizelos Enters Canea
PARIS. Sept. 27.-A Havas
patch from Athens says:
dts-
n ; J enizeios arrived at Sudabay
on Monday night and entered Canea
the capital, the nevf ,i.. -.7.,'
thousand of the Inhabitants escorted
"in in Lriumnn an Kn j ,
.iuni ,re naicony of the oar-
m'.ks mere was no disorder in the
city, the royalist officials said Can
difi is also quiet.
wii?1' vnl2el'8 "as announced that he
will send out from Crete in a few days
a proclamation to the Greek people ex
piui"inK. his attitude and the necessity
of fighting against the Bulgarians.
M. Venizelos will direct ih. un..
and organize and extend the move
ment." May Discuss Peace
BERLIN (via London), Sept. 27.
fContinne.l on Page Two)
D!DeroUhl!en A" P' LM,el Wlrl
PARIS, Sept. 27. "It was not a vll-
lage the allies assaulted it was a
fortress," says La Liberte's special cor
respondent at the front in describine
the taking of Combles.
"When it was captured,? the. corre-
By Robber Gang
t miles. Here they ransacked both cars.
including the registered matter in the
mall ear anrf .,.,. o.i .f,. ..!. ,iu
ins i ne rire ui the locomotive.
The amount of booty obtained will
not be known until the postal authori
ties have checked up on the registered
mail.
, Several automobiles loaded with no-
licemen and deputy sheriffs left Detroit
for the scene immediately upon receipt
or word of the holdup.
COILES WAS
T WAS VERITABLE
Pittsburg Steel District Workers
J& & j&
GOTHAM STRIKE FAILS
I ALLEGED BANDIT IS
I HELD IN $10,000 BAIL
DOUGLAS, Sept. 27. Flin
"Busty" Tulk,. a cowboy, arrested
on the charge of robbing the
United States mail in ' connection
with the holding up of the Golden
State Ljmited passenger train on
the El Paso and Southwestern
railroad September 6, at Apache,
Arizona, forty miles east of Doug
las, was bound over to await the
action of the federal grand jury
today. His bond was fixed at ten
thousand dollars, which he has not
been able to furnish. Ray Preston
of Portland, Oregon, was the chief
witness against him, saying he
recognized Tulk. despite his mask
j and had seen him take two regis
I tered mail packages. Tulk en
I deavored to establish an alibi.
j ;
INT WILSON
TO TIE STAND
ON PROHIBITION
Leaders ot ihe Amalgamated Associ
Republican A. P. Leased Wire lation of Street and Electric Railway
cnvn Ti'NCTinv r-,.i employes were encouraged tonight they
GRAND JUNCTION, Colo, Sept. averted, over the possibility of the
28. A second attempt was made to- Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers
night by the prohibition national coming to their aid. Officials of that
campaigners to get President Wil- organization notified the public service
son on record as to his stand on the J" si'" nd,"rl" P""
....... dore P. hnonts. president of the Inter
liquor question. Having failed to re- borough Rapid Transit company, had
ceive a reoly from the president to a refused to see them and discuss alleged
telegram sent a week ago from San grievances of motor men In the employ
Francisco to the White House, calling of the Interborough who are memliers
his attention to the fact that Cali- of that brotherhood. Mr. Shouts de-
fomia wets were quoting him as
neing oppose to prohibition.'' an-
vim.-! u-iegiaui, mKnt-u uy Oliver w.
niewan. cnairman ol tr.e ary cam- ,
v.,.. uu,c.-.-u iu
he executive tonight at Shadow
It repeated that the California '
SLe "."J"?'- "?. aid
.
iin-ni in Lut-ii iiKiu, i;a.iifu nia Hi-
.
the first telegram and
.i.i
an answer would reach
, ,ni,n,it!n., ,-, '
time tomorrow.
"Th9 Prohibition party is now inoul wa e Brewery Workers,
Colorado where a state-wide fight 1
is on... the telegram sa d. wI1n
make oth stllteg where contest!, are 1
ufiiuuiK. nil w uu win auinonzp us
that you are opposed to state-wide .
prohibition." j
Both J. Frank Hanly and Ira Lan- 'strike call, he said, are the United Gar
dt ith, the prohibition national can- i ment Workers, six building trades un
didates, on their trip through north- ions, the paper hangers union, painters,
western Colorado today urged prohi- house wreckers and a number'of small
bitionists to center their fire this fall'er organizations. Bohm declared 263.-
on a proposed amendment declaring
f"r l" n-intoxicating and i
there-
resent
: .1
that if he were voting 'in Col
sum
orado this fall he would Vote for
Governor Carlson, republican, to suc
ceed himself. One piece of literatura
being used by the drys in the cam
paign is a en sketch of a police
judge discharging a man who sleeps
in a policeman's arms on the ground
that he has been drinking beer anil
therefore is not intoxicated. Seven
Utah cities are to be vi.-Uted by the
special tomorrow. Thev are Price.
. .
Srringvale, Provo, Midvale, Salt Lake
City. Karmington and Ogden. The
special left here tonight for Price.
Carlson Is Endorsed
LEADVI LLE, Colo., Sept. 27. Gov.
George A. Carlson, republican can
didate for re-election, was endorsed
today by J. Frank Hanly, prohibition
candidate for president, as the man
who should succeed himself.
Hnnly's endorsement, uttered at
Salida just before the special "dry"
train departed for here, was the first
he had given any candidate for office
(Continued on Page Three)
ispondent adds, "it was a charnel house.
What remained of the garrison of two
I battalions fniieht fnriouaiv
corner of the town was the theater for
murderous combats. No ground was
yielded.
"The ruins or a church changed
hands three times during the twenty
minutes it look the French and British
to reduce the last stronghold, after they
had formed a junction and closed a
ring around the town, the fall of which
was saluted with enthusiastic cheerina
It was then impossible to take two
steps without encountering dead.
"In cellars and dugouts dead and
wounded lay mingled by the hundreds
and it is now certain that the allies
did not take a great number of oris
oners because the garrison was vir
tually annihilated in the assault and
the previous shellings. s
"Many of the deaths seemed to date
back a few days.
"The Jubilation of the soldiers over
this victory communicated itself to the
villagers behind. the lines where, for
the first' time since the v war began,
satisfaction over success took the form
of celebration.
VILLAGE
FO
IE MILLION
WORKERS If
CO OUT SOON
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, Sept. 27. Although
labor leaders insisted tonight that the
general strike of trade unionists in the
greater city In aid of the car men who
quit their places September 6, event
ually would involve at least a half mil
lion workers, there were no surface
indications of a tie-up of the city's in
dustries, as threatened, after announce
ment today that the strike had be
gun. While union leaders claimed that
125.000 workers In various trades al
ready had joined the movement with
twice as many more ready to "walk
out" tomorrow, the police said they
had received no reports to substanti
ate such estimates. The actual situa
tion it was said, was confused because
of Jewish holidays, which are being
celebrated here by more than 1 00,000
union workers. .-llCBiE3
clared tonieht however, that there .
no differences between the motormen
an( the company.
Two hundred and five representatives
or various unions, at a meeting late to
day. ratified the sympathetic strike or
T,' "2"'!"" A"?.?!!0
tnrt;morr'''rend
. i . - .
; " ' , V "., , B , ,llee" Per"
-:"-"-' ..u.cv.c uU..,iB me car
strike. Midal
Among the unions which failed' to go
"u""'ei is ov, out ineir leaders de
clared they would jrtrike tomorrow.
These were figures reported to the
Ing to Ernest Bohm. state organizer of
" lvl,"h "J - uciccaico. ncuuru-
the American Federation of Labor. The
trades which have responded to the
000 more would go out tomorrow.
The general strike convention, at
tended by representatives from the in
ternational unions having headquarters
in this city, was called to order here
today, after some delay, by Hugh
Frayne, state organizer of the Ameri
can Federation of Labor.
None of the leaders would make a
statement as to what his own union
had done or would do. Frayne said he
was satisfied with the situation, but
declined to answer when asked what
the situation was.
The police were told today that the
Brewery Workers union had agreed to
go out tomorrow under a "gentle
men's agreement" with their employers
that they would return to work Mon
day. Unless the public service commission
can bring about an adjustment of their
differences, it was announced late today
oy tne commission, the motormen on
the elevated lines who are members of
the Brotherhood of Locomotiv En
gineers threaten to join the striking
street railway men.
L. G. Griffing of Cleveland, deputy
grand chief of the brotherhood, and A.
L. Gridley, organizer, called at the of
fices of the public service commission
late today and notified that body of
the possible strike.
A. L. Gridley, organizer of the
Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers,
umigni cnaracierizea tne methods em
ployed by Wm. B. Fitzgerald, organizer
or tne carmen now on strike, as "a
brass band character." He declared
that his organization and the Amal
gamated Association of Street and
(Continued on Page Three)
Edge Has Lead
In Governorship
Fight in Jersey
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
TRENTON, N. J., Sept. 27. With
returns lacking from only 146 dis
tricts in the state, Walter E. Edge had
a lead tonight of 2537 votes over Austen
Colgate, his closest rival, in yesterday's
three-cornered primary contest for the
republican nomination for uovernor.
The vote was: Edge 70.3S6; Colgate
67,859; Keorge L. Record 25,054.
Former State Senator Joseph F.
Frelinghuysen, won the reDuhliean
nomination for United States senator
rrom lormer uovernor Franklin Mur
phy. j-iie nomination of Senator James E
Martine by the democrats for liniei
States senator to succeed himself, was
conceded by his opponent, Attorney
General John W. Westcott.
TO TIE UP INDUSTRIES
TO ANSWER HUGHES
AND 'WITHOUT GLOVES'
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONG BRANCH, N J., Sept. 27. Is
sues raised by Charles E. Hughes will
be discussed by President Wilson here
Saturday in his first purely political
speech since his address accepting the
renomlnation. Administration offi
cials said tonight that when he ap
pears before the members of tho
Young Men's Democratic clubs at
Shadow Lawn the president will
handle the political situation 'with
out gluves."
It was declared that following Sat
urday's speech there will be more
political activity on the part of the
president. He has not fully developed
his views on the Adumson law. it was
declared, and, in addition, is planning
either Saturday or soon afterward to
speak on sectionalism, Mexico and the
problems caused by the European
war. A delegation of nearly 2000
young democrats is expected here
Saturday te hear the president's ad
dress. The public will be admitted to
the grounds for the occasion.
FARMER FOOTS
BILL SSSEOTS
1
(Special to The Republican)
NEW YORK, Sept. 2?. -That the
farmer foots the bill" for increased
cost of railway operation due to the
Adamson bill, forced through congress
by President Wilson at the demand of
the railway brotherhoods, Is the con
tention of the Hon. James Wilson, for
mer secretary of agriculture, in a state
ment issued today. Ex-S;cretary Wil
son say 8:
"Much is being said these days re
garding increased pay for railway men.
Four of the railway brotherhoods went
to the chief executive and demanded
ten hours' pay for eight hours' work.
fixing a day in the immediate future
when they would strike and tie up the
business or the country if their de
mands were not complied with. This
is the kernel of the proposition being
discussed throughout the length and
breadth of the land. We hear from
some sources that the movement was
to fix eight hours for a day's work on
the railway, but others worthy of ere
dence assure us that the proposal was
merely one to get more pay for fewer
hours.
"The farmer pays the help generous
ly and, if it is ascertained after care
ful and full inquiry that labor on rail
ways is underpaid, he would consent
to pay his share of the increase, or, if
the measures agitating the country for
the purpose of equalizing salaries and
adcing something for those receiving
now too little to support themselves
and families as Americans should live,
the farmers would be content. This is
(Continued on Page Thre
11
REJOICE OVER SAFE VOYAGE OF
1
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BERLIN, Sept. 27 (Via London, Sept.
27). The Berlin newspapers today are
acclaiming enthusiastically the arrival
of the German submarine Bremen at
New London. The Connecticut town
has jumped to a point of prime inter
est and the newspapers have found it
necessary to describe its situation by
the aid of maps. They are also dilating
on the history of the town.
The news of the Bremen relieves the
protracted tension, which had grown
intense as the expected arrival of the
submarine was delayed from week to
week. Apparently authentic rumors
had been in circulation that the Bre
men sailed early in August. Hence
fears were entertained in some quarters
her1 anTtte '?epodof "he a?r "vil "had
been greeted by the newspapers as
paving the way for the establishment of I
a regular SUDmarine service uciwvch
Germany and the United States.
All the newspapers today print a
sketch of Chaplain Schwartzkopff, cap
tain of the Bremen, who was for a long
time in the service ot the North Ger
man Lloyd Steamship company. He
served for years on the steamer Kaiser
VVilhelm der Grosse and distinguished
himself in rescue work on the Hoboken
pier fire in 1U00. Captain Schwartz
kopff was the first officer of the Prinz
Friederich Wilhelm when the war
broke out. The steamer was then at
Spitzbergen on a Polar excursion, but
succeeded in making a home port with
out encountering the British fleet.
There have been many reports of
the expected arrival of the merchant
submarine Bremen at various ports on
the Atlantic coast recently, but up to
the present she is not docked in any of
them. The announcement of her ar-
Greet Mister Hughes
jz?
Vance C. MeCormiek, chairman of
the democratic national committee,
discussed political plans tonight with
the president. He remained over
night, and will talk with Secretary
Tumulty tomorrow morning.
Mr. MeCormiek expressed optimism
over the political outlook from a
democratic standpoint. He brought
with him a large number of letters
and telegrams from democratic lead
ers In different parts of the country.
He said the situation in New York
state was particularly favrable to the
democrats.
In addition to discussing polities
with Mr. MeCormiek and with Walter
Lippmann of the New Republic, the
president gave consideration to the
appointment of several of the com
missions. It was learned that among
the men being most seriously consid
ered for the tariff commission are
Prcf Frank W. Taussig of Harvard
and William L. Saunders of New Jer
sey. Bernard N. Baker of Baltimore
was said to be almost certain of ap
pointment on the shipping board.
EXPECT 'JOINT
END SHORTLY
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW LONDON, Conn.. Sept. 27.
The Mexican-American Joint confer
ence expects to conclude not later than
October 15, it was learned today. Both
sides expressed satisfaction over the
progress made. Work here was vir
tually finished today although a short
session will be held tomorrow when ad
journment will be taken until Monday
at Atlantic City.
It was stated that border conditions
were discussed today and that some
consideration was given the banking
question. The Mexican commissioners
explained to the Americans that the
departure for Mexico of Eliseo Arre
dondo, Mexican ambassador-designate,
was in no way connected with the ne
gotiations. The Mexicans were the
guests of honor tonight at a dinner
given by Franklin K. Lane, head of the
American representation.
CHIHUAHUA CITY, Mexico, Sept.
27. General Matias Ramos has started
with his column in the pursuit of Villa
without so far coming into contact
with the bandits, according to infor
mation received today at the military
headquarters. Meantime, the forces of
General Klizondo, General Garza and
Colonel Borjas Btationed around Cusi
huiriachic and in the western districts
are awaiting orders to cooperate in the
pursuit. General Apolonio Trevino.
who arrived here from the Torreon dis
trict, said that Villista activities have
been noted there.
EL PASO, Sept. 27. Guards have
been doubled at the Juarez custom
(Continued on Page Two)
rival printed In Berlin probably resulted
from one of these many premature re
ports reaching the German capital.
New London, Baltimore and Norfolk
have been reported as the destination
of the Bremen. Recently there has
been much activity in New London by
officials of the Eastern Forwarding
company, American agents for the
German merchant submarines. A re
port from Westerly, R. I., September 25,
said a tug had left there to meet a
German submarine which was on the
way to New London.
The Berlin dispatch apparently Is
confirmatory of the reports that the
Bremen had sailed for the United
States and that she is now due here.
VffJ V Tif) VPO C T Jfl
J f V Lv X I tCO J I v
To Make
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, Sept. 27. A dye census
containing information about 8,000 dye
stuffs, said to be the first publication
of its kind distributed in any country
was made public here today at the na
tional exposition of chemical industries
by Dr. Thomas H. Norton, dye expert
of the federal bureau of foreign and
domestic commerce.
More than 37,500 items of dye im
ports under 5,670 heads, which have
come from Germany, Switzerland, Eng
land and France, appear in the list. Dr.
Norton said in one year the United
States imported 25,700 tons of artificial
dyes, of which 22,000 tons came from
Germany, while loday nearly all this
T
T m
PROTECTIVE
Ulllt ME
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
PITTSBURG, Sept. 27. Charles E.
Hughes, went through the big steel
making district of Pittsburg today, ad
dressed thousands of workingmen who
left their work to hear him, returned to
the city tonight, covered with dust and
ended the first day of his campaign in
Pennsylvania with a speech in the Mu
sic Hall of the Pittsburg exposition.
The chief theme in all of Mr. Hughes'
addresses today was the protective tar
iff. To an audience of workmen he de
clared that present conditions of pros
perity would not endure when Europe
would be at peace unless the United
States should adopt a protective tariff.
To an audience that jammed the music
hall he repeated this statement tonight.
In his night address he also dwelt at
length upon his views on the Adamson
bill, the administration's policy toward
Mexico, the shipping bill and what he
termed extravagant claims made by the
administration for having aided bus
iness. Mr. Hughes spoke from a platform
upon which were seated republican and
progressive leaders who- have opposed
each other in the Btate during the last
four years. On his way here from
Cleveland he was met and escorted to
this city by Senators Oliver and Pen
rose and William Flinn, the latter a for
mer progressive leader. These, with
Alexander P. Moore and other pro
gressive and republican leaders sat
with him on the platform toniirht. In
his speech Mr. Hughes emphasized his
belief that the republican party was
re-united.
"The breach of recent years has been
healed," he said. "And our national
aims at this time are conserved to be
of such transendent importance that we
know no difference and are not allowing
any former disagreement to impair our
unity of effort. I should take little
pleasure in my candidacy, if I did not
think that the re-united republican
party was a great liberal party, the
party of progress. We are truly pro
gressive, sanely progressive, looking
forward to the solution of important
problems that this new century will
place before us."
Mr. Hughes left at midnight for
Trenton, N. J:, where he Will speak to
morrow morning and Saratoga Springs,
N. Y., where he will deliver an address
tomorrow night.
During the afternoon he visited
Homestead. Duquesne, McKeesport,
Wilmerding and East Pittsburg, ad
dressing audiences of bluejeaned mill
workers at every step.
To these audiences, the nominee
spoke chiefly of the protective tariff. At
one great plant, 7,500 workers were giv
en an hour off on full time to hear him.
The managers of his tour estimated
that it cost the company $2,000 in wages
to have Mr. Hughes come to this
plant.
After the long motor trip, Mr. Hughes
reviewed a big parade of republicans
tonight. They marched past his hotel
six and eight abreast, white umbrellas
over their heads, torches lighted and
red fire blazing. Nearly an hour was
required for the parade to pass.
Fairbanks in Colorado
DENVER, Sept. 27. Democratic tar
iff bills invariably favor the. south,
Charles W. Fairbanks, republican can
didate for vice president, charged in a
speech at the auditorium here tonight.
Mr. Fairbanks was introduced by
Charles W. Waterman of Denver, for
mer republican candidate for United
States senator.
Governor George A. Carlson, many
state officers and scores of men prom
inent in republican circles in Colorado
were in attendance.
"This great inter-mountain region
the same as other portions of our com
mon country flourishes best when the
republican party is in power," said Mr.
Fairbanks. "Republican policies are not
sectional, while democratic tariff bills
invariably favor the south.
"We should have no sectional poli
cies, no sectional administration, for we
are all so related, so bound together
that we should consider before all
things our common welfare. Our tar
iff policy is involved in this great cam
paign. Whenever the democratic free
trade policy prevails Colorado's indus
trial and agricultural interests languish
and the interests of our wage earners
suffer."
Mr. Fairbanks closed hy urging the
election of Charles Evans Hughes.
"He is an able and just man, and a
loyal friend to both labor and capital,"
said Mr. Fairbanks. "When the war
(Continued on Page Two)
jf?l Slffl ft? Q
If 1 K A VJVXAiVKO
Own Dye Stuffs
is being obtained in this country from
coal tar products. General distribu
tion of the census will begin in about
two weeks, it was said.
The chemical industry in the United
States is now reputed to be second to
the steel industry. J. F. Scboellkopf,
Jr., of Buffalo, told the American
Chemical society that before the war
his firm made 3,000,000 pounds of dye
stuff a year while now 30,000,000
pounds are being turned out.
During a discussion of steel manu
facture by the electric furnace method
compared with the old open heart ii
process. Professor Jos. A. Richards of
Lehigh university predicted the new-
method would entirely supplant the old
within five years.
OF DAT STALKS
