OF F I c:e
UEUEA COL
LEGE
IJERE A KY
COMP
The qtizen
Devoted, to tlie Interests of tlie 20-CLnteiln. People
BER.EA PUBLISHING CO. I
Knowledge Is power and the
way to keep up with modern
knowledge Is to read a good
newspaper.
(IMCOItrORATP.DI
wm. a. rnosT. im- tm nu
C. H. WCMTENnMICER. Maa-etae Uitor
r. O. BOWMAN. MM Mutt
Vol. XTIIL
Five OnU a Copy.
BF.REA. MADISON COUNTY. KFATt f .KY. SEPTEMBER, 2H. It1.
, One Dollar a Year
No. n.
UIIES I I3ENT S
Impi
movements
Improvement means trettintr ahead! It means do
ing a kind of work today that will make your work to
morrow easier and better.
That new barn means that the hay and fodder will
be better kept and last longer.
That new drain means that the field can be worked
earlier in the spring, and will be more productive.
That careful selection of seed means a bigger crop
on the same field. t
That girl in school means better cooking and child
rearing a few years coming.
Kentucky Hall
Herea has had less money in proportion to her work
and needs than any other school in the State. Hut she
has made the money that was given "go a great ways."
The Ladies Hall was built in 1871. Since then there
have been built two small wooden buildings, for girls, and
several dwelling houses have been occupied, but all to
gether there were only pillows for 300 girls. This year
Kentucky Hall spreads its roof over a round 100 more.
And at Christmas time Talcott Hall will open its doors
for another 100.
Kentucky Hall has so many modern improvements
that Ladies Hall had to be renovated and built over with
steam-heat, new floors and much besides in order to
keep up.
We are sure that all who are contributing for the
building of Kentucky Hall feel that it is a good invest
ment. We are sorry that the formal opening must be
made next week with a debt still on the building, but feel
sure it will soon be lifted. Kentucky does mean to stand
by Berea.
Agriculture and School
By William
I oidy lieed t tell you that Hire'
thousand people were in Hooneville,
county seat of Owsley county, Fri
day and Saturday, Kept Ti and 23,
attending the Agricultural and
School Fair to convince you that
the people of Owsley County are in
terested in the fundamentals of suc
cess and a better citizenship. Ows
ley County is seeing the liKht of a
new day, and making a forward
movement in education. The time
lias gone by when school, church,
farm and home were things apart,
and when the proceeding of each
were of interest only to tlume active,
ly engaged in the professions. They
are tieginmng to cooperate in an ef
fort at a readjustment which shall
make for progress and a lieller citi
tenship. It was inspirational to se
a people of a county meeting with a
common interest. That this is prac
tical and not visionary was evidenc
ed in Iiooneville by the success of
the second attempt to have an Ag
ricultural and School Fair.
The people of Owsley are to be
congratulated oil having a fair
strictly educational, and one that
excludes gambling and the devil's
side shows. No "chewing gum
wheels," no "try the ring and get
what von pinff n.. "f hr,Miirir hallit
m . uiftf,-! un ni-n. ill, u ig BliaRrn
or classic dancing," but here we
had a fair that was indicative of
the county's advancement; where
the products of the school, home
and farm were exhibited; where
rivalry and friendjy competition
existed; where a neighborly spirit
was shown, promoting good feeling, I
the feeling of pride, cooperation!
and loyalty. Yes, interesting to see
neighbors bringing and placing on
exhibition corn, wheat, oats, pota
toes, beans, beets, onions, melons
pumpkins, siuash, apples, pears,
peaches, egg plant, tomatoes, horses,
colts, rattle, hogs, chickens, tur
keys, ducks, jellies, preserves, but
ter, rakes, pies, biscuits, knit stock
ings, rugs, quills, bed spreads, etu.
I wish I could show you the exhib
its and the keen interest.
Certainly County Agent Reynolds
CONTENTS
FACE 1. Editorials: Improvement;
Kentucky Hall.- Agricultural
and Kclusil Fair of Owsley Coun
ty. Our Own State News. U.
B. News. World News.
FACE 2. Departmental Columns.
PAGE &, Serial: Then r 11 Come
Ituck to You. Story: What
Came of a Mock Marriage.
PAGE 4. Locals.
PAGE 5. Local News Items.
PAGE I. Moontain Agriculture:
Fall Heading; Seed Corn Sclec
lion; CtVn Show and Fair; Pre
pare for Winter; Soil Drain
age. Cincinnati Markets.
Home Department: What to Do
wilh a Poor (Irade of Tomatoes.
Present World Crisis Must
Fair of Owsley County
Jease Baird
deserves credit for the splendid
work lie if doing among the farmers
and fanners' boys and girls. I had
not been in the county a mile until
I heard of and saw results of his
work. I would place the club boys'
pigs of Owsley along side any i.i
the State of Kentucky. This was a
hard ring to judge. The boy win
ning the blue is Clay Rowland. His
pig. "Rutli' gained lbs. in
131 days, at a cost of 3V4 cents per
IHiund. "I.illie Rose" gained 2o0V
lbs. in 131 days at a cost of 44
rents per pound, owned by Edd
Campbell. Jr and lakes second
prize. Tell me this is not worth
while for these boys, and is not an
object lesson for Owsley County.
Yes, the study of the reason for the
tides, the classifying of parts of
speech, problems in bank discount
are as foreign to these sixth grade
boys as astronomy or the single tax
theory are to most of us. Hut the
working out of feeds for thesa
pigs, growing of an acre of corn,
getting them ready for the fair, and
writing how they did it, places a
reason back of their work and puts
life into all activities.
Read the following: "How I drew
My Acre of Corn," by Hubert B.
Hall.
How I Grsw My Acra of Corn
The land on which my present
corn crop is growing is a fertile
lowland which overflows almost
every year, so it doesn't suffer for
the lack of moisture. This land
has been growing mips of corn
successively for several years. To
do this, I grew a crop of rowpeas
or green manure. The crop preced
ing my peas w as a corn crop. When
this corn crop was ripe I sowed a
crop of cowpeas; the purpose ai
lu add nitrogen to the soil. I left
this crop on the ground. Reside
this green manure I distributed
fourteen wagon loads of stable inv
1. ure on it from February 10th to
the 15th. I let this lay, until April
1st when I turned this under ubout
eleven inches deep. My purpose
(Continued on Pit Two.)
He Accepted in Terms of Chal
lenge and Not Despair.
PAGE 7. International Sunday
School Lesson. For Young
Folks. Comic Column. Gems in
Verse.
PAGE I. East Kentucky News Let
ters. What is the matter with Owsley
County? Nothing. He sure to read
(h. account of the Iiooneville Fair
on this page written by one who
was there and got things tlrst hand
ed. The Citizen is always interest
ed in improvement, as our editorial
this w eek voices. We are glad that
the young pimple of Owsley, as well
as of other Eastern Kentucky coun
ties, are coming to the front.
III OUR OWN STATE
Hearing the Kirk-Sampson muni
Million contest Ih'kiiii Isixt Friday
fore Judge Slack, 'of OwenslMiro. at
llurbourvillf.
In practice movements at El Paso,
an at tuck liy members of the First
Kentucky Regiment and the city's
defense by members of the Third
Infantry were declared faultlessly
executed.
Kentucky troop on the border
will take part in a 210 mile prac
tice march next week.
Leslie Loads in Moonlight Schools
Over forty moonlight schools have
been established in Leslie this year.
Without doubt it is in the lead. The
people in the County are determined
more than ever to stamp out ignor
ance and crime and are succeeding
fbeyond their expectations. Though
isolated as it is Leslie, is rapidly
taking the lead of other mountain
r unties in the advancement of edu
cational work. iood school build
ings are being erected in every dis
trict in the County and a new order
of conditions is taking place.
Valuable Cap Won by Lancaster
Horse
Hlucher, owned by W. B. Burton of
Lancaster won one of the most valu
able cups sought for by trotting
horse owners at the State Fair. The
class was for standard bred stallions
in service and open only to register
ed trotters.
Fine Rotd Spirit in Ball County
The majority by which the second
bond issued of 150,000 was carried
indicates the good roads spirit in
Bell County. Prior to this move
a bond issue of $250,000 had been
adopted for road improvemenL
However this second issue was
dl-clared invalid by the Court of Ap
peals because the levy was insuffi
cient to take rare of the interest
and provide a sinking fund for the
retirement of the bonds. There is
difference of opinion as to the ad
visability of the County going so
deep. The unfinished roads expos
ed to weather damage seems to be
the chief point of danger and extra
expense to tax payers. The voters
appear to be of the opinion that to
swap programs with the roads un
finished would be like swapping
horses in midstream. They are
ronlldent of their ability to build
the roads.
Noted Tendist XiUsd
Sunday, the 17th. Mose F'eltner,
aged 45, notorious feudist and moon
shiner was shot and killed by deputy
United States Marshall, 0. A. Size
more. "Bad Mose" played a big role in
the Hargis-Cockrell feu( in Breath
itt County more than ten years ago.
The officers had arrested Feltner
in Leslie County for making and
selling illicit liquor and was taking
him to Hazard for imprisonment.
He undertook to play foul with the
officer when nearing the jail. In
the scramble three rapid shots were
fired by the officer resulting in the
death of the notorious character.
Ls Connty Oil News
Lee County oil Held is opening up
favorably. A test well was put
down on the far.n of Chas. Eveleth
a short distance north of Willow
Shoals about ten juiles from BeaU
tyville. The drill was stopped at
1.300 feet and the well is in the
same sand as that of the Campton
Held. More details will be given
luter.
Dr. 1. H. Kastle Diss
Dr. Joseph Hoeing Kastle, chem
1st educator, and author, died Sun
day, the 2ith, at his home in Lexing
ton, after a short illness of two
weeks.
Is-Uir Kastle was born in Lex
ington, January 25, 1M4. Except
fop a few years he lived in Lexing
ton all his life. He was a close
friend of the students with whom he
came in contact. His work as di
rector of the Experiment Station
and Dean of the College of Agricul
ture took a wide range.
Louisville Has Good Prospect for
Farm Loan Bank
Farmers, bankers and representa
tive business men met Secretary of
the Treasury MeAdoo and other
members of the Federal Farm Loan
Board Tuesday in Louisville, when
Louisville's claims as a location for
1 ne of the banks were presented.
Secretary MeAdoo made the Ken
tuckiaus happy when he casually
lemarked that he was convinced
that Imisville deserved a branch.
More than 350 were seated at a
luncheon to the board given by the
Board of Trade.
U, S, NEWS
President Wilson discussed the
policy of (ireat Britain toward I'nl
ted Stales commerce and interfer
ence with mails last Friday night,
Declaring that such practices must
cease.
The Inoii-trial Savings Bunk with
deposits of about fHOO.OOO, closed in
Cl.i..n.... L'ni.l..., II. t..ll. ,..:,!.
i.nk T, in "i,i.aio witi.in
month.
Tlie auxiliary schooner Panama,
in the gulf of California, was de
stroyed by fire ami all 011 board
lost, including Capt. I'asipial, hi
wife. Engineer Leddick and three
American seamen.
American exports have passed
the half billion - dollar - a - month
mark. This is a record not only for
the United Slaten but for the world.
Coiilldence was expressed by the
American and Mexican commission
ers Thursday that they would llnd
a solution of the border and other
problems affecting the relations be
tween the two countries.
MEXICAN TROUBLE
IS BEFORE WILSON
Baker Confers With President
on
BELL'S REPORT CONFIRMED
Advices From Secret Agent Tend to
Confirm Reports of Villa's Oaah on
Chihuahua City, Sent by . General
George Bell, Jr.
Washington, Sept. 2(. The first of
ficial admission that the Mexican sit
nation la again "growing serious"
came when Secretary of War Baker
left Washington to confer with Presi
dent Wilson. He will present to him
the latest details of the situation In
Chihuahua.
The war secretary's visit to the
president followed the reference to
him of a batch of dispatches from
state department agents on the bor
der and In Mexico. These dispatches
are of a conflicting nature. Secretary
Lansing said, but a great many of
them absolutely bore out the report
made by General George Bell, Jr., com
mander at El Paso, that Villa "not
only kept his promise to enter Chihua
hua City, but did more than he said
he would do there."
There Is no longer any doubt that
the bandf movement in Chihuahua,
whether led by Villa, personally, or
not, has grown very formidable. The
loyalty of the Carranilsta troops is
admittedly very roubtful and many of
them are known to have deserted to
the bandits during the last week.
Officiate here are apprehensive that
the bandits, who are well a-med and
equipped, may at any time attempt an
attack either ufcm General Pershing's
troops or upon the American border
patrol. And In either Instance the
outcome would be very serious.
A supplemental report from General
George Bell, commanding at El Paro,
gives detailed Information along tMs
line. It flatly charges the expeditions
sent In pursuit of Vlllistas by General
Trevtno hrve made no effort to Inter
fere with the bandits. They have c n-
tented themselves with locating tne
various camps, but have not fired a
single shot at the outposts.
General Funston wired the war de
partment he' has ordered court-mart)!
of Corporal Rodgers. Troop B, fid
seven members of a patrol of Texas
cavalry who crossed the Rio Graede
Into Mexico on Thursday without au
thority. Mexican soldiers flred on the
patrol, killing a horse.
Atlantic City has been choaen as
the new meeting place of the Mexican
American commission, now sitting at
New London. The selection wss made
by Ellaeo Arrendondo, the Mexican
ambassadc deaignate. and Assistant
Secretary ofallllps, of the state depart
ment, and later the commissioners
were notified that they could proceed
to Atlantic City whenever they saw fit.
The change was decided on because
the hotel at which the commissioners
are making their headquarters In New
London closes this week for the sea
son. STORM CAUSES GREAT DAMAGE.
Hamilton, Bermuda. Bermuda was
swept by a sevre storm, very general
damage being caused throughout the
colony. Many buildings were badly
damaged. Trees were uprooted and
electric light and telephone communi
ci Hon was Interrupted.
'ALLIES CAPTURE
THf.EE VILLAGES
British Advance Mors H-n
Mils on West Front.
; AIRSHIPS RAID ON ENGLAK3
Teuton Drive In Dobrudja Halted by
Roumanian, and Russians-Entente
Make Marked Progrees In
Region on Road to Monastic.
Flora
London. 8eDt. 2 Offlclal state-
' ments from both London and Paris ! l,p,,n the 'ljcrt of weeks of
I war offices report gains for the Brit- flighting, and its capture is the great
Ish and French on the Somme front. est achievement won thus far.
I The London office says that the
British troops have captured the Til-1
' lages of Mortal and Lei Boeufs, to-;
gether with several lines of trenches
i n',!;!n"e, fnt 1?W!"!
SIIU .VIS I llllUUI.Ui WUIU VI I -I -J IIU-IV , m
river. This front was penetrated to! m , verf "f"ng for war and rev
a depth of more than a mile, accord- j ""t'"ns threaten to break out. In
Ing to the British claim. Many pris- 'act one revolution has been under
oners were taken and heavy losses jay in Macedonia and another has
j were Inflicted on tne oermana, tne
I statement adds,
In a violent attack launched against
the German positions extending from j
Combles to the Somme the French
made noteworthy progress,' according
to Paris, and captured the village of
RatiMinrf nrmn ntaltlnn VATS
.kn in th. -,inn of Frericmirt. be -
tween the Combles rosd to Bouchaves-1 protest was sent during the week
nea and in the vicinity of the Canal t" Berlin by the bankers,
de Nord, according to the statement. -
The statement Issued at Berlin said A great accident occurred in Bo
that a tremendous artillery battle was : bemi.i. j. part of the Austria Uun
in progress between the Ancre and;gSPian Empire, during the week, in
Somme rivers. The statement said , tfe brpakinK of a dam jn one of tne
that local advances of the rivers of that country. Several vil-
agalnst the Rancourt and Pouchaves- . , .
ne. position, failed. lap9 We fWep aWfy' cr0P ,nd
"Several hostile alrahlp. crossed the Property destroyed and over a thous-
east and northeast coasts of England
between 10:30 o'clock and midnight,"
says an offlclal communication.
"Bombs are reported to have been.0ther raid of German airsh ids. .Two
dropped at several places In northern bjg Zppplin8 were brought to the
and north midland counties ground in flames, one near London
Jfh 2 Pi?lZniHlnd h othr ff coa9t Essex,
south coast. No report or casualties
or damage have been received." I The v,ctlm8 f tnMe disasters, when
Latest reports regarding the Impor-, they occur, are treated by the Eng
tant campaign In the Roumanian pro-1 1 ish with the consideration due
vlnce of Dobrudja Indicate a lessening brave men, and their charred re
in the Intensity of the struggle be- mains are given an honorable bur
tween the Invading armies of the cen- jal.
tral powers and the Russians and Ron-
manlans facing them. . . . . . 1 "
Field Marshal von Machen.en's Inl- Twenty-two Belgians have been
tlal attempt to break the allied linen condemed to death by the Germans
formed to defend the Constanta-1 as spies, out of a group of sixty
Tchernaveda railroad evidently have charged with that offense. Some of
failed, the opposing forces apparently these Belgians were men of promi
are now virtually deadlocked along npnt positions in their country,
the front from the Danube to the among theni the burgo-masler of the
Black sea. The current statement ity of Namur one of the citieg aU
rroro ifucnaresi announces 0017 artil
lery duels slong the Danube. It de
clares, however, that the Roumanians
have made some progress on their
left flank, which rests on the seaco-st.
In the Invasion of Transylvania, the
Rouraanlnrs report success In an at
tack at II ;rmannsta'tt, where 800 men
and Ave machine guns were captured.
Nearly T.ooo prisoner, have been takei .j
by the Roumanian, so far In their
Transylvanlan campaign.
One of the fields least affected by
weather conditions Is that of Mace
donia. Russian, Servian and French
troops are continuing to make prog
ress In the Fiorina region in an er-
fort to open up the road to Monastlr.
erating to the west, have carried a
bill by assault, the Servians are an-
nounced to have reached the Servian 1 H"'ken in their opinions than in
border north of Krusograd and the former time, and various proposi
French also scored advances In that lions are being discussed. The
region.
Bulgarian troops have beaten off at
tacks on Kalmakcalan height, north
east of the Florins region, according
to Soda, and have driven to the west
bank of the Struma, on the eaaterly
end of the line entente forces that
were operating eaat of the river.
GENERAL FUNSTON'S ORDERS
Expression of Regret Must Be Made
to Mexico For Corporal's Act.
Washington, Sept 26. Major-Gen-era!
Funston advlaed the war depart
ment that he had ordered an expres
sion of regret to the Mexican author
I I n- K .ntlnn a! rA-n-l Onm .
ers. Troop B, Texas cavalry. In cross- If" our advertisements over
Ing Into Mexico with a patrol of seven 1 8 nole the ni"h cla8 we fly
men Sent. 21. and had directed Colonnl 1 This is one thing that makes The
Gaaton, commanding In the Big Bend
dlatrtct, to try the corporal for dis
obeying orders.
The patrol was flred on by Mexican
soldiers and returned to the American
side with a loss of one horse. No
reason for the crosalng has been
given.
Bomb Shakes Buildings.
Chicago. Sept. Z. Buildings la the , Studenlsl You w ill notice how
heart of Chicago were shaken when a , the lVpartmental page Is iniprov
borab was eiploded In a Are escape la vVMat j the matter with
the rear of the Orpheum theater la Foundation? This is your page,
the loop district. The damage to the
building was smalL
As usual, the reports of the week
have been conflicting, but the Eng
lish have made advances in the re
gion of the Homme river; the
Krpn( n.have n,.pi ",ne r,,p"is
me region around veraun; ine Kus-
sians have been nt$cl along the
eastern frontier; the Italian have
not secured Trieste; the Germans
and Bulgarians seem to have the
heller of the events in Balkan in
checking the Rumanians.
The town of Comhles, France, is
I renorted In hp entirely in I lie hnniU
. f English and French. This is
! .n imiiiirfnnt njiint nn lha u-aalnpn
frontier of the war, used as a cen-
11 r 01 "I'eiauous oy me wrmani.
Definite proposals have been made
by Greece to the Allies and an ac-
rp,)tanPe win Dring Greece into the
' w " their side. The popular feel-
neen reporieu 10 De Biarung in me
island nf Prefe.
The Germans are seeking to make
a loan of $200,000,000 from Belgian
bankers. As this money is not be
ing willingly offered military pres-
! ,,re is being brought to bear,
A
i B,,u VV" "".
England has been visited by an-
lacked by the Germans in the ear
lier stages of the war.
The Dutch Parliament began it
sittings during the week and the
queen of Holland in her opening ad
dress congratulated the people on
koeninir out nf the uir thus far.
measures are to
,
navy and to improve the method of
supplying food to those who need
it.
Tl nmni. nf r.ermanv are look-
, jng forwtrd witn expectation to the
opening of the Reichstag soon. The
1 1
newspapers are much more out-
meeting is likely to be a memorablo
one and will be watcjied with inter
est by the whole world.
A national banking system for
Mexico has been planned out by the
Carranza sjovernment, modeled on
that of the United States. The
operations of two of the leading
banks of Mexico have been suspend
ed on the ground that they have
created a money monopoly, and by
an excess of bank notes have caused
the government paper to lose valuo.
Citizen loved by all, who have it. Is
the fact that we do not cater to
liquor, tobacco and their kin for
ads. Our conscience is clear on
this score. We are in for building
up rather than tearing down. It
costs you a dollar to join us for one
year. Get our ad. rates.
