IXC. NEW SERIES VOL. LXIII.
BURLINGTON, VERMONT, THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1!UG.
NUMBER 13.
IESG011UE
EAT OFFENSIVE
v.Milo Tt.it.ile Arc on
i rii rH.A.1
into Biff WccIrc.
V. TRENCHES TAKEN.
own irmu mi---..iM ...-.'-
Mnr Onii-oM Concerning
n, Sept i i no .u-muo oneue
nlng from the Alien- liver to the
im rapidly being transformed by
at offensive of tho entente allies
Irregular trlangulf-r wedge In
mini lino, with tho btises tvspect-
l irone oi iiiii' iviii mm ...nt
and tho point projecting across
hunr road and Into the .St. Pierre
vooo
o Hrltlsh end of llio lino in the
f Thlcpvnl, anil enstwurd t-i the
f Flers tin- Rritlsh In Wednesday's
gained further successes over
ramus and likewise the ! rench
oops fnnwir ' mil entered tho St.
m Vnn. t iv d
of this region from Tinuchavesnos
STATE UNIVERSITY
OPENS ITS 126th YEAR
WITH RECORD CLASS
Of 218 Eligible New Students, 193 Had Enrolled
Yesterday President Benton Praises Stu
dents Who Responded to Call for Service on
the Border and Draws Lessons from the
European War.
The exorcises In connection with tho
opening: of tho I'.'fHh year of the rnivor
slty of Vermont were held ye. torday
morning In the gymnasium, there being
n huge nttondnnco of faculty and stu
dent members and their friends, The en
tering class bids fair to exceed the pre
vious i coord of V,n, made last yenr, but
duo to tho fact that enrollment Is lint yet
complete, and that romo who have regls
toicd In nil probability will not show up,
no decree of certainty can nccompany any
statement ns to Its slzo. However, out of
'.71 .students, 191 men and 77 women, who
had registered. 21S havn taken their ex
aminations and have certificates of ad
mission. The list of these 21S prospective students
contains the names of some who aro not
outhcrn edge of tho Hols IAbbe ! m,w oxpeeted to nttond, as It llkeWi
le French were compelled to face
L n ir rt iiv till1 . iei iiiiuip. .iu.ii
iton off, the Germans being thrown
i dlscrder, according to Poris.
British gains liicludo'd German
on a fiont of 2,000 yaids north
s and a strong redoubt on a hill
lrds n rthenst of Thlepval. To
rtlneoKl. firr,is4 Hie Anrro. sno-
ralds wire carried out by tho
opposite 15c aumont-Hamol.
thousand prisoners have fallen
hands of the lirltlsh In tho Inst
ng to London.
Is still little nrws coming from
issinn and Au--tro-e lerman war
concerning the fighting on tho
front Potregrnd asserts that
rom SKirinisiie"- ai various points
s nothing to itport. Uerlln, how-
lu Clal.i a near Luilova, with heavy
les to I ii Russians,
e Ho in.i mu front battles are tak
co at v uluus points noai tho Trnn
an border. Uerlln reports progress
Teutonic allies near Hermann-
while Bucharest chronicles tho de-
the Austro-Gormans In the Jlu
and their hasty retreat north and
est. Quiet prevails in the Dobrudja
unifi 1" mu jiumuii.iji iw omit:
Mlenrlnn.s linve fnreod hnrl: tho
Macedonia. Paris, however, say.)
an hclcht wcio rcnulsed wi.U
losses.
elaln s successes for the Russians
the Ulack sea coast, in Aimcnli
inmienan aim on ino i-cisiiin ir-n:
vicinity of Hnmadaii.
omits some who have slnco enrolled. The
total enrollment of now students yester
dav.was 193, 132 being men and CI women,
wliile other names will be added to-da",
the correct list being ready for publica
tion to-morrow. Last year, the previous
high water mark, tho enrollment toia'.ed
Tho exercises were opened with tho
singing of "Dulse Street" bv the nssembl.-,
after which Dean O. H. Perkins of M
college of artsand scloncesread the Scrip
turo lesson and offered prayer. Tho presl
dent's address followed an anthem, "lie
Thou O (-Kid," l,y tho choir. President
Ronton said, In part:
Students of tho University of Vermont:
Ity which will result In tho ultimate
abandonment of war throughout the
world, t'ntll othor nations are ready for
that step, though, I nm now- persuaded It
Is tho part of sound wisdom for tlt
I'nllod States to adopt u policy of mllltaro
propaiodness that will guarantee the lo
spoet of othor nations nnd that will safe
guard us against nttneks by those poo
pies who aro as yet apparently unable
to grasp tho finer conceptions of world
wide Christian brotherhood nnlmatlng
ovory truo American.
On this opening day of the new college
yenr, with the recollection of the glorv
of past accomplishments emphasized bv
recent events, wo do well to pause a mo
ment for consideration of tho deeptr
meanings of our national line while wo
engage in seldom contemplation of future
obligations, llrondly speaking, the peo
ple of this country are divided into throo
groups. At one extreme aro thoso whom
wo call pacifists; at the other are tho
militarists, and at the goldon mean be
tween tho two extremes are those well
balanced men nnd women of unquestion
ed patrotism anxious for tho maximum of
preparedness consistent with our trad -
REPORTED GREECE
WILL JQINENTENTE
Head of Army Advises an Im
mediate Declaration of War
by the King.
CABINET IS INACTIVE.
Grentrftt Illnir tit Kind Im Departure
of Admlrnl Cminilourlof Is, (he llls
ttngulftiiril National Hero.
London, Sept. 27. What Is to be tho
final attitude of Greece in the war Is still
uncertain. Tho latest unofficial report
from Athens, however. Is that the Greek
government, In agreement with King
Constantino, has decided on mllltury co
operation with tho entente powers.
Athens via London, fti.pt. 2S. King Con
stantino received to-day an exhaustive
report from General Moschopoulos, chief
of tho general staff, detailing the chaos
In thu country's military organization
caused by tho departure of so many olll
cerB to Join tho Anglo-French allies. Tho
chlof of staff advised an Immediate
declaration of war by Greece without
awaiting elthur tho assistance or the In
sistence of the entente, as the only wuy
to save the situation.
Premier Kulogeropouloo, on departing
from a conference with the King to-day,
made this declaration:
"The cablnot can only await the receipt
of the entente's demands. It would be
futile to rearrange tho constitution of
tho ministry without knowing that such
alteration would prove satisfactory. We
HAPPENINGS IN VT.;
NEWS BY COUVtriZZ
ADDISON COUNTY
M1DDLEBURY.
The Addison eotinty corn show nnd
agricultural contest will bo hold In
the Grange hall, M lildleliury, October
II and fl. Several now features havo
been added this . nil'. The winners In
the coin growing contest will tell how
they grow coin. There will bo a corn
Judging contest. Demonstrations will
be handled by Miss Ilessle Thayer, Jny
Coryell and H. I.. Ingalls, extension
workeis, assisted by County Agent
Carrlgan. There will bo a big speaker
for the second afternoon. The prem
iums this year will be in money.
Mr. nnd Mrs. Hzia Rrnlnard, .Ir.. left
Sunday fm their homo n Muskogee,
Okla., after spending the summer at the
ionio of his father. Dr. Hzra Rralnard.
Mr. and Mrs. P. .1. Hlnks are parents
oi a iiaugiiier. .irs. r.uwain w iiiuiius j
anil children or (irnnvllle, ?f. ., and
Miss Irene Kent of Rutland are the
guests of Mr. nnd Mrs. Felix Colo of
Seymour street. Mrs. U, Ii. Cliff of
Fair Haven Is In town to visit her
mother. Mrs. Lucy F.dgerton. Mr. nnd
Mrs. D. Ii. Hackett of Long Reach, Cal..
who have been spending a few days at
the homo of Mr. and Mrs. Oliver Chll
: son, have lotuineil to their home.
Mis Mary G. Illgley of Castloton, n
foimor resident of Mlddlebuiy, has re
turned after spending two weeks here
ns the guest of Dr. and Mrs. P. I'.. Mel
lon. M. ,r. Cionln has returned after
a week's trip to Tieondeioga, N. V.,
Orwell, Rutland nnd Rrniidnn. Miss
Ida Dragon, who has been convalescing
at her home In Ripton, Is now nearly
THE SYMPATHETIC
STRIKE A FIZZLE
cuts, Mr. and Mr. .Joseph I.aRoek of
Weybrldge strot t. Mrs. (liry was belli
and brought up hi Mldillehtn y, was
married, and seeureil u illvotco hero.
She was married when less than 11
years of age. Since that time she has
miido a lino reputation for herself on
the stage, In leading parts, and has not
by any means forgotten lu-r old homo
and friends.
A pretty n ii.l quiet wedding took
place at the homo of Father T. J. Leon
ard Monday morning at nine o'clock,
when Miss Mary I.aRoek, daughter of
-Mr. and Mrs. William I.nltoek of Tl
condoroga, .V. V , was married to Bur
ley Scars of this village. The cere
mony was performed by Father Leon
ard. Tin- bridesmaid was Mrs. Carl
Sears and the best man was Mr. Sears
of V rgonnes. The bridal party were
dllven to the home of tho groom's
mot In r, Mrs. Soars, on Seymour street,
when- they were given n reception in
th
large number of friends and rolitUes.
lielreshmenis wore poivco. .mi. aim t.r(, wor sllrfaco n,iieatlons of a tie
Mrs. Sears leu ror a snort we, mini; up
trip, after which tin-y win return to
New York Is Apparently Not
Yet Tied Up as Threatened
by Union Leaders.
RIOTERS ARE INDICTED.
llnltun i:niilojes Sny the Unit her.
IhhhI of Locomotive Cnchieeri May
(lie Tlieni ANNlNtnnce.
New York. Sept. 27. Although labor
leaders Insisted to-day that the general
strike of trades unionists In the greater
I'ltV In Eii.1 nf 11. n inirmnn .el... .ml. tVial
-v. Ing which was attend".! by a pirt.6, September C. eventually would
Involve at least a half million workers,
tlonal conceptions of the t'nlted States are prepared, as wo have always been.
ai a poaco loving nation.
"War certainly Is not the Ideal method
for the arbitrament of International dif
ficulties. Those who have faced with un
flinching courage showers of leadan hr.1l
from the guns of their country's foes aro
most pronounced In their opposition to
we can scarcely be expected to abide by
tho entento's wishes."
Despite the piofound popu'ar belief that
the country Is facing the greatest crisis
In Its history, calm expectancy reigns In
Athens. The Venlzollst morning papers
publish declarations which the former
premier left prior to his departure. M.
Venlzelos declares that his courso is the
only way by which national unity may
bo preserved and that h will struggle
now belong and which found its origin I !ipo- I'evond dispute, though, It is the J for the salvation of Greece without tho
A half century ago the State of Vor. means for the settlement of troubles
mont gave moro soldiers to tho Union I otllpr peoples. It may bo that the
army in proportion to Its population than ' ''"Iteil Stntcs will be, compelled to en
any other of the loyal States. In tho 1,1 "''" ""'n. It Is almost too much
hour of national peril the University or ' expect that tho present Kuropean war
Vermont this Institution to which you ' H "R' ,,lst ''""filet at arms the world shall
Mldd'eburv iiml make this their homo.
Henry Donnelly of Proctor, a Middle.
burv man, who has boon In the em
plnv of the Vermont Marble company
at Proctor for more than SO years, has
returned home after a brief visit here
with his sister, Mrs. Charles A. Collins.
Miss Margaret Forest, who has been
spending a few months at Rreadloaf
Inn, has returned home. .Mrs. Ilorton
W. Jones .and Mrs. William 11. Stokes
have leturnoil from Shoreham after a
week's visit at their old homo. Mon
day, market day. og-is brought from
US to ?.n cents and butter .".ft to "il.
Fred Currier has gone to Alburg. where
he will spend a week. William Walter
recoveied after n three months' Illness Thomas, who has been visiting In town
nnd Is here on a visit to friends at the, for a week, has ietuined to Poultney.
Hotel Logan. Newton G. Armstrong of1 Harold Dragon hus gone to the
Cleveland, Ohio, W. .1. Fuller of f-'prlng- Rreadloaf Inn In Ripton, where he ex-
to moot any desires of the entente In tho ' Held..Mass., and Samuel Smith of Salem, ' P'a ' np employed through the fall
most coidlal spirit of co-operation, butlMass., nie In town. William Walter
one hundred and twonty-flvo years ago,
coincident with the admission of Ver
mont as tho fourteenth State of the
t'nlon has never been wanting In It;
offering of men. Tho north wall of our
chapel on this hill-top supports a mar
ble tablet upon which aio Inscribed the
names of the men who went out from
business of those of us who are prepar
ing for tho duties of effective citizenship
lo hasten the advent of permanent Inter
national peace.
SHOULD SAFEGUARD RORDF.RS.
God could doubtless give us, by one
stroke of omnipotence, a perfected clv-li
Iv'lltf... ..-till til.. Dltnrl.a nf 1 nor...-
University of Vermont Ir. tho sixties to 1 morning. If He should do so. contrary
aid of the constituted government, if the
government will not act. Hut if the King
decides to defend Hellenic soli ngalnst
the Invaders he will be glad to turn
over tho forces he has gathered to co
operate In a common effort to save tho
country.
It Is learned that communication be
tween the King and M. Venlzelos has al
ready been established through the for
mer minister of war. General Ynnakltsas
Thomas of Poultney, a graduate of
Mlddlebury College in the class of 'lfi,
Is In town for a few days. George M.
Wright, who has boon In town for a
few days, lias returned to New York
city. The Rev. II. M. Ilnyward of
Rothel has come to town and enrolled
himself as a student at Mlddlebury
College.. A daughter has been born to
Mr. and Mrs. David Ogelvln of Proctor.
Mrs. Ogolvlo will be remembered ns
Udith Lowell. Mr. and Mrs. Loslio
and winter. Miss Clnr.i Morris has
returned from a visit with friends In
Roston nnd Is staving with her father,
Adolphus ,1 Morris. lierirird Mc
Oulre of Port Honrv, N. V., Frank L.
Hastings of Springfield, nnd F.. D. Tal
bert of Hurllngton aro visiting in town.
William LaRmk nnd family have
moved to Tlcnnderoga, N. Y where
they formerly lived for sovoral years,
and where Mr. LnRock has secured i
desirable situation. The two bakeries
In town. George T. Kidder and tho RIs
sette bakorv. have raised the price of
or the city s Industries, after an-
iiouncrment was made that the strike had
begun. Union leaders claimed that l2o,-
(XU workers In various trades had Joined
the movement, with twice as many more
ro.nly to quit work, but the police said
they had received no reports to sub
stantiate any such statements.
The actual situation, it wns said was
confused because of Jewish holidays,
which are being celebrated here by moro
than lmiO) union workers.
Leaders of the Amalgamated Associa
tion of Street and F.lectrlc Railway Em
ployes, whoso members are on stri e
were euiouiagod to-night they nsser'ed
over the possibility of the Hiotherhool ot
Locomotive F.nglneeis coming to ther
aid. Olllel.ils of that organization not I el
the public service commission during tiiJ
day that Theodoie P. Shonts, president 01
the lnteiborougb Rapid Transit eompanv
hnd refused to see them and discuss al
leged grievances of mntormen In the em
ploy of tho Interborough who nre mcm
hoi s of that brotherhood. Mr. Shonts ic
ctinred to-night, however, that there wei-j
no differences between the motormen and
the company.
Two hundred and five representatives
of various unions ratified the sympathetic
strike order to-day. It was announced, i nd
agreed to call out tho members of their
organizations to-morrow. While this
meeting was In session, the grand Jjiv
handed up Indictments against 15 porsi.'s
nccused of stone throwing, assaults on
car crews and smashing car windows 1' r
Ing tho car strike.
spirit of fearless loyalty to keep us eve
ready for succession in tho trail of hon-.r
tho students of other days havo left bo
hind. As evidenced by recent events this
spirit of genuine patriotism Is still alive
on this historic campus. In tho early
morning of tho nineteenth of June, of this
early arrangement of he d'.'flcultles
dividing Greece. The greatest blow to
7lng Constantino has been tho departure
put tneir lives upon tlie altar or coup- ,0 His established order. He would de
irj mat ino nation mtgiit survive. Sit- prlve men of the high privilege of working "' , l"" " v i V,vV.ra,i for An
t nr momliiL- .-ifier mnminr H..,.i ..,!... ... ... ... f"l 'hat tho outlook is favorable for an
" -"r. i uui ny muir i-.mi Hiinnn mo proper nec-
worsliip. with thoso imperlshablo names tiny of mankind Ho has put us in the
looKing down upon us, wo may catch 'be woild as free moral agents and under His
leadership we are charged with the re
sponsibility for social salvation. In this
countrv where wo have made more rapid
advancement than In any other on eartn,
It is the part of wise precaution for 'jx,
with faith in tho ultimate trlumpn oi
right isness, to safeguard our borde-s
from the attacks of nations that navj
Allen house on Court street. Miss Car
rlgan Is a freshman at Mlddlebury Col
lege. Mrs. Dliznboth Scovel has re
turned to Lewlston. N. Y., after sev
eral w-eks in town at the home of her
sister, Mrs. Lucy Crane, who aecom-
of Admiral Coundoiirlntls, who, after panied her home. Mrs. Mary CnswoII
the Sovereign, is the most distinguished . and daughter Francos, Mrs. Susan
PALMER-POWELL.
present year, when the President of tho , not as yet attained to our Ideals. It would
i lilted htatcs gave orders for the mohlll-Mm shfer folly to assume that we shall
.... i J ....an ....a, n-n uni .nun mri
.nrce Attendance or I rlemls.
orbury, Sept 27. Miss Vera
1 of Post Mills was married to
t Palmer, youngest son of
flflle T) Palmer rif tlilc vlllnirrt nt
HI-: n ll'inic Ills. .JM'lllim ill :imiL
t, the Rev. L. F.. Cutter, pastor
Congregational Church at Post
performing the ceremony In tho
ice of a large yiumbe'r of relatives
rlemls. The brldo wore a gown
ilt a crepe do chine nnd a veil,
had been used by brides of five
itions.
bride wns given in marriage by
I i '. I nnr e I'nwiiii. aiiku i.een
ce of Waterbury was the maid
u . linn ..mill ii. j itiiiii'i i.l jiii -
r, Mass., acted ns best man.
Powell, Jr., was the ring bear-
d tho bride's two brothers, Ray
1 or l-ost .M i s. and lta ti n 1-owoll
rchester, Mass., were the usheis.
wedding march was played by
Lucy Montgomery of Fltehburg,
The parlor was tastefully dec
1 with evergreen, asparagus and
ragon, and tho nrch, whero tho
laurel. Tho dining loom was in
u Ul .iiih, Jl.lljill i uwijii ..nil ..tin.
Palmer, nnd the .Misses Annie,
n v 1'iiiini.e in I .1 u v .1 nil iiauu ii
In sorvlng.
bride Is a daughter of Mr. nnd
nhnrv Polleiro- I. or four vears
n.i.i.iii, iui ,ni3 vui in , viuiiiivn
h at Wolfeboro Academy. Wolfe
N, II. Tho groom Is a native of
For two years following ho was
lie took n course at the Wont
doing high class tool work
ralmer, Miss Lena Wallace and
Annie Dorothy Palmer. After
III live In Fast Milton. Muss.
mT 1 1 11 ijl'I'iio il-
ILilvnu ujiijuinjo
BEST IN YEARS
zatlon of thu National Guard to ma'.o
nady for service on the Texas border, or,
If need be, in the turbulent countries sou h
of tho Iilo Grande, this ancient and nor.
orablo Institution of learning made quick
response. Company C and tho medical
corps of the First Vermont Regiment
composed of students from tho University
of Vermont, soon nfter dawn, had pitched
their tonts on tho University grounds.
UNIVF.RS1TY STUDENTS ANSWIIR
CALL.
A week lator those bravo Green Moun
tain Roys of IPlii tool: train with tho.r
gallant Colonel, tho Vermont collogo pi evi
dent who had boon their commandant
and teacher for three years In the Uni
versity of Vermont, They know by his
record mado In Cuba and tho Philippines
that ho was a soldier tried and true .mil
they were ready, if need be, under his
leadership to follow on to honorablo death.
Gladly those patriotic Vermont students,
freshmen, sophomores," Juniors and
seniors, faced southwaid and, In duo
time, detrained at Eagle Pass, Texas.
There, as the first company of collogo men
In tho United States to answer tho call
of tho President, they have stood bravely
all summer long in defense of the safety
and tho honor of the country bequeathed
to them by their heroic forebears. To
day wo welcome our soldier boys back to
their college home for tho resumption of
their studies. They were willing to fight
If fighting had been necessary, nnd that
it proved to bo unnecessary detracts not
imo whit from tho Immortal glory of their
inspiring example as true soldiers of ihc
republic.
These historic facts should bo record
ed for tho Inspiration of coming genera
tions of students in this institution. Now
that the danger of war with Mexico Is
no longer Imminent, these soldier students
of oiitB havo shown equal bravery by
standing upon their rights in demanding
tno privilege or return to college, where
they may make tho largest preparation
for tho responsibilities to which active llfo
in later years may call them either as
citizens or soldiers. Captain Cootey, oi
Company C, now rut alumnus of the Uni
versity of erniont, w iote to mo thai
never again bo called upon to dofond our
selves. On tho assumption that defons.i
may bo necessary, wo may manifest l.a
tlonal wisdom In preparing ourselves for
attack against the coming day when In
ternational disat mamont shall mako war
impossible The United States of Amorl
ca should not piepate for war In onlo
to conquer other nations. Without an,"
expectation of aggrandizement, thnugi ,
we aro Justified In making sane piepara
tion to protect our national honor nnd
to defend the rights of nil our citizens
from the humblest to the most exalted.
Our government has yet hardly found
the golden mean between the extremos of
which I have previously spoken, that is,
of pacifism and militarism, but It Is well
started toward the proper goal. A rea
sonable Increase In our regular armv anil
tho pioper utilization of the National
Guard, supplemented by periods of train
ing for all nblu-bodled men through a
legiilar course In successive summer
camps and Improved opportunities nfford
od young men for military training In
college, may ultimately produce In this
country a loserve army that will mal.o
us Invulnerable ngalnst tho nttacks ot
any enemy.
PRIVILEGE THAT' FOLLOWS Mill
TA It Y TRAINING
The present Congress has enacted no
wiser bit of constructive legislation than
that which makes it possible for voung
men ns the result of foq,- years- military
training In college to bo given duo recog
nition by the government. The Joint com
mltteo appointed by the nntlomil associa
tion of State universities and the ass i
elation of American agricultural college
and experiment stations, cn-operntlng with
tho war department, pinnioted tho enact
ment of a law lately approved by the
President, which gives to students In land
grant colleges and other Institutions up
plying for similar opportunities their
uniforms and equipment during thu ficdi
man and sophomore yeais. Tie aided
pilvllego of electing to continue their
military education with uniforms ami
commutation for subsistence provided
during the Junior and senior years and
an expenses paid at two summer
national hero.
JURYMEN EXCUSED.
Only One More Ciixc for Trial nt Frank
lin Coiinti' Court.
St. Albans. Sopt. 27. Only on more
Wright and Miss Elizabeth Wright
havo returned from an automobile trip
Spin ks have gone to Concord. N. II., to, bre.nl to six cents, vv liloh for several
v -mil ii'i u lew w.jeiss. ..us. i. ..icL.ni) ; jrais n sum im in-- ie.ii..- Tt?TTl1ITTT T ICT
and family have moved from North say it Is duo to the Increase ln3t. 11jJV10 1 itHiill U iI UlQl.
Pleasant street to the Martin house on the cost of flour. Miss Jennie M.
Washington street. .1. E. Carrlgan nnd, Arnold and Miss Susan E. Green
sister. Miss Cecilia Carrlgan of Pitts-1 of Salem, N. Y., are visiting
ford, have leased tho upper part of the' In town Francis llanlnn, 1. year-old
son of .Mr. unci .Mrs. rrnnu uanion, on
the Sallshury road, while assisting in
the catching of n. horse In the pasture
at his home Saturday afternoon, fell
and broke his right arm above tho
wrist. Roth bones worn broken. Mrs.
M. M. Ilarton of Rutland Is In town to
visit her son, Carl Rarton. William
Colo Is l'l.
Mrs. William Farrell, Sr., has re
turned from St. Albans, where she has
guests of Mr. and Mrs. Dnne Jackson
Mr. and Mrs. Noble RrooUs, who have
spent the summer on their farm south
of this village, havo returned nnd open
ed their home on Washington street,
Jury case stands for ttlal at tho present 1 where they will spend tho winter.
to Springlleld, Mass.. where they wore , bpcn for uvo Kcok!i to visit at tho hom
of her parents. Mrs Elizabeth Giediev
and her young daughter, Roslna Grcd.ey,
of Ilarre, have lemovcd to town and
taken apartments in the Ross houso ni
Franklin street, w here they will keep
house for Mrs. Grcdley's non, Frank
term of Franklin county court and thelMaurlco Mooie, who has boon In town
Jurymen were excused subject to tho cs.ll I for a few weeks, has returned to San
of the clerk ns the witnesses for the one I Diego, Cal. F. 11. Richmond of New
case remaining are not obtainable at
present.
In tho case of Stnto vs. Ray Hitchcock
H plea of broach of tho peacu was entered
nnd tho respondent was fined $10 and
costs. A similar plea was cnteted In the
case of State vs. Marshall Reyor and
he was lined a similar amount.
The court will lako up tho divorce cases
t once.
In tho case of 'he Ruck Real Estate
company vs. Hector Moquln, assumpsit,
which was taken up .Monday afternoon,
the iury brought In a ' erdlet for tho
defendant and Judgment was lendered
this morning. Tho last case on the civil
docket, Charles S. Ferrin vs. Ernstus
Ruck and Delos M. Ruck, assumpsit, has
been enterod, settled nnd discontinued.
FIFTH ANNUAL.
dnought Florliln Milken Til Hit In
fiR MuitH.
. - 1 ' T ) .- .. 1
by battleships of the Atlantic licet
o annual summer name practice on
.. llll ........ wl ...1.I..1. ...1 1
o.umeru uriu muinm im-n i-iuu-h
rduy were tho best In several years
ding to reports brought ashore from
flett to-night. Tho dreadnought
b wltli M hits in fiS shots, with tho
wecond, tho Wyoming third and
lew ouperdreadnouglit Pennsylvania
h. Tin Texas and Pennsylvania
H-lnch rlflo3, and tho Florida and
nlng 12-luch.
cers from tho fleet described tho
sylvnnla'H work wllh her 14-inch
as "deadly " Thin ship scored flvn
gu ot U statute inlloJ,
Oil 111 I IH.
tho students under his command had 1 sft ' with a six mouths' commission as seson i
Vermont In Juno a company of hoys, hut lieutenant In the regular army foilowlm;
he assured mo they would return a com- giaduation and enrollment thereafter in
pnny of men. the officers icserve corps for seven years,
The University of Vermont was ibn will give us within tiio next rieoni'n n
only Institution In the United States that body of trained officers among husmra
sent two companies of student soldiers In n"d professional men ready to respond
tho Mexican border In response to the call fr efficient leadership In answer to i
of tho President during tho recent crisis. rnl1 to tlu colors whenever nation ,1
rheso men aro In our midst now nnd their emergency siiai so order,
experiences on patrol. In tho hurnlng belt MISSION OF EDUCATIONAL INSTITl.'-
iiim irninung sanus oi Texas, have TION
rca-Jiinfo'Telws,",',? " "Ve WWh "f " w'hv':
academic fellowship. membership in our college community at
A NEW AND PECULIAR AGE. the University of Vermont in tills coun-
Wo are living In a new 'and peenll ir rv wo urn making im experiment In (be
age. civilization coinfionts a warring development of genuine democracy. R i.i
Europe, a troubled Mexico and a resiles i "" experiment In which wo havo l-irgo
United States of Amei an. The events of fnltli. Democratic government Is mu 1 1
tho past two years havo changed the nuue expensive and sometimes less ef-
polntu of view and altered tho convie- H'lenl limn an autocratic governmoiii,
liiiiis and Ideals of iniiny thoughtful peo- 1,1,1 those who love fieedom boMoso
pie. I must confess to a modification of stiongly In the democratic prlnclplo that
my own views slmo delivering tho opening '"''iv f government lies In distrust of
iiddresii on the threshold of tho collcin unlimited power. With a strong belief,
year In l'JH. At that time I expressed It theiefoio, in tho Ideal of guaranteed ft co
ns my earnest conviction that tho United ll,m for every citizen tho American poo.
Slates should lead the nations ot tho enitli I1'1' til o willing to pay tho larger cost of
lowiini the day-dawn of ihe era win u wiving for ultimate popular satisfaction
"swoids should bo beaten Into pnnv the problem of a perfected democracy,
shines and spears Into pruning hookn." 'n tho creation of any sou of inllllnrv
I still hope for tho early coming of uiil- establishment In this country we shoiii-l
versal peace through world-wide, dlsarmn keep over In mind tho need of gunning
irioni aim i ncnovo that tho league to en-
l.iiniolllr niver IlUfrlce .Sunday cl I
in Meet nt Fulrfn.
Fairfax. Sept. i'7 Following Is the pro
gram of the fifth annual Institute of the
Lamolllo River District Sunday School as
sociation to be held In tho Methodiit
Church Friday. Tho Institute theme will
bo "Trained Lenders." Morning session,
10:30, pralso service, devotional servico,
appointment of committees m:F,ii, sympo
slum, "The Nocesslty of Trained Lend
ers, (thiee IS-mlnute tnlks), by a pasloi,
by a superintendent, by a teacher: 11-35,
nddress, "Some Praetlcnl Possibilities in
Leadership Training," tho Row E. M.
Fuller, Riehford; 12:00. dinner, served by
the ladles. Afternoon session: l:::o, pralso
and devotional scrvlco: 1 4.', symposium,
"Tho Qualifications of Trained Loaders, '
(thieo 10-mliuito tnlksi, Intellectual, so
cial, spiritual, 2:1s, add! ess, 'Some Prao.
tlcal Opportunities of the Ruial Sunday
School," the Rev. W. E. Douglass, Eims
liurg Falls. 2.V, question box on geiieinl
Sunday school piobloms, conducted by
Rov. (iiailcsA. Royd, Slate seretnry; 3i.,
reports of committees, iiiitinlshed Inisi
ness, ndjoiirnnient. The ollb ers: Pi evi
dent, Ficd L. Smith, Fletcher, vlee-pi evi
dent, S. Warner Rrush, Fairfax, so -rotary-treasurer,
Miss Marjorv Connor
CROWD SEES RACES.
JXocto peacu jwy bonomti tho tatiruuioatai. J jJCoutluued UM BPIS0 tlBUt. r4Jl)Roe2:20 trot and 2.15 iiacp, 2;;; .0j'
lleUvren .1,0110 nnd -1,0011 nt )nc ,rr
Vnlley Fnlr's Sn-oiul l)nj,
Northfleld, Sept. 27. A ciowd of be
tween .1,000 and 4,000 witnessed tho
races to-day at the Dog Itiver Valley
fair. Among the features of t i tt-t ycai's
fall- are sumo fine poult rv exhibits anil
nil excellent cuttle exhibit. Tho Yei-
tnont extension service and i ho Vermont
inrcsiry iiopariinrni navo two of the
most nltinctlvn exhibits.
Tho numinniies of to-day's races:
L'.IO PACE. 2:311 TROT.
Jennie It., Ii. m., (Smith)
Ruben, H. (!., (McLood)
Vnlciiinlor, H, S. ( Watei man)
Daisy G., blk. in.. (Hiinley) ..
Time, 2:l!U,t, 2:32, 2:2Si.
L:22 TROT. 2:2 PACE.
nilioaper, b. H., (Gilbert 1 l i
Jesslo lloaper, (Chandler) ,,i
12"
Counlo linen, oh. m (McLeml) 33 d,r
I.conn W b, 111. , (Meais) 3 . ' , '
Time, 2:27V. 2 25',4, i .,,!''
2:3014.
iiiurhu.iyn iii.i.n win 00 the 0 in
1 1
.3 3
.3 3
4 4
York Is In town to visit at the home of
his mother. Mrs. Laura G. Richmond.
Miss Maude Raker, who has been vis
iting at the home of Mr. and Mrs.
George Ilolghtor for a few weeks, has
returned to Rochester, N. Y. Mr. nnd
Mrs. Fredeiick W. Chayor. who were
married at St. Mary's Church 10 days
ago, have loliirnrd from theli wedding
trip and leased rooms in the Bond
block. Mr and Mrs. Searle Nash, who
have been visiting nt tho homes of
their paients, have returned to Rocas,
Panama. Mis. G, E. Constantino of
New York city Is In town for a few
Giedley, a member of tho Junior chits
of Mlddlebury College. -W. A. Atwvll,
who has been In town for a fow weeks
with his family, has roturned to Brandon
Miss Flossy Huestis, who Is training at
the Mary Flotchor hospital to be a nurse
is In town on a two weeks' vacation with
her parentu. Mr nnd Mrs. E. L. HeustU.
Mtss Helen Stanley has returned frn-i
Hrandon, where she has been for a few
davs. Miss Knthrvn Heart has returned
from the northern part of New Yoik
State, wheie she lias spent a few weeks
Mrs. Archie C. Watson of Rutland li
making a visit to re'ntlvos in Mlddlebury
nnd Cornwall and Mr. Watson Is expected
to come across tho latter part of the
week. George H. Hall, who has been vis
Itlng In Essex, N. Y., Mlddlebury and
yve.-ks. Iir. Paul R. Johnson, who has Now Haven for three weeks, has returned
been visiting at the homo of Mr. and ! to Hrlstol.-Miss Mary Wilson of Rrld
Mrs. J. E. Crnno, has returned to Wash- Jo'eph and George W. Mclntyre ot
inrtm, ti fMr Uwe.ib rv,ih,m i,u Riattlebiuo and Hiram Dragon of ttor-
gone to Newark. N. .!.. to visit at the t0" ar,'n tmv"--ir!"y'"on'1 "f'T' n.f'"''
home of her daughter, Mrs. Peter
Duquld. Mr. and Mrs. George Moore
of Weybridge street gave their son
Parnell a party in honor of his sixth
birthday Saturday afternoon nt tholr
homo from two until four o'clock. Re
freshments were served.
Jano Groy, the well known actress,
who wiui expected hoio two weeks ago
but wns prevented from coming at
that time, arrived In town Friday eve
nlng to spend somo time with her par
tner resident of MlddleHiry, who has been
visiting friends horn for two weeks, has
returned to Rutland,
Tho Mayfnir war relief will hold tho
tirst meeting of tho se.ison on Monday
afternoon, October 2, in tho storo former
ly occupied by R, S. Iienodict, nnd all
Interosted In helping tho non-combatants
and wounded In Relglum and northern
Franco are urged to bo present. At the
closo of tho business session of Lnke
(Continued on pngr tiro,)
EMPLOYES STRIKE.
st
AlbniiN Grain Company Men Walk
Out fu liny.
St. Albans, Sept. 27. About 25 employes
of tho St. Albans Grain Co., about half
those employed there, left work early
this afternoon and paraded through
some of the northern streets of the city.
Tlie nctlou wus said to ho due to a mis
understanding regarding a new position
created at the plant. Operations at the
plant were continued and late this after
noon the men went back to tho plant.
The dllllculty wns adjusted and tho men
will return to work to-morrow morning.
RUTLAND ELOPER
ARRAIGNED IN COURT
Crunk Turner Ueccln-m fnitrm-c for
Niui-Mipiiorl of Wife mid Child.
Rutland, Sept. 27 Frank A. Turner of
this city, aged 3,"i years, who was brought
back hero ft mil St. Albans by Deputy
Sheiill's D. A. Hnrker and Allen A.
Leonard of Wnlllngford, having eloped
to the northern Vermont city with Miss
Ruth Coollilgi- of Ninth Clarendon, ago
is, was before City Judgo F. G. Hvvin
1101 ton In-day, being sentenced to Iho
houso of coiieclion for not loss than IS
months or more Hum Iwo years for nun
support of bin wllo and child. The girl
wus placed 011 probation and permitted
to go homo. Stale's Attorney C. V.
Poulln iittcinpteil to prove a moro seri
ous charge against Turner, but evidence
was lacking.
Judgo Swliinerlon In-day sent Joseph
lovvell of Wlilllligforil to the houso of
correction for not less than six nor moro
than 12 months lor furulbhllii; liquor
llU-aally, ,
JUMPED FROM TRAIN.
Sheriff inpntlilcH Worked Upon nnd
Prisoner Um-npod from Ilerlh.
Montpcller, Sopt. 27. Returning from
Huston, whero he locatod Fred A. Mlllnn,
formerly of Harro, against whom n ver
dict was rendered in Washington county
court Monday for f-" In favor of Irviu
J. Royce, Deputy Sheriff H. J Slatou
discovered at Woodsvllle, N. 11 , early
esterday morning that Mlllan. who had
been suriendcro'.l by his bondsman fol
lowing the- verdict and non-appearance
of tho defendant In couit when the i-nse
was tried, had Jumped from the train
sometime timing the tlip. The officer was
unable to pursue an Investigation and
arrived In Montpeller nt 7:30 o'clock.
It Is said that Mlllan complained after
leaving liostou of feeling 111 and tho
deputy sheriff's sympathy played an Im
portant part In the escape, tho prisoner
being given permission to go to a berth.
The officer kept watch the remainder
of the night and believes Mlllan must havo
lumped through a window when the
train slowed down at some station.
STOCK EXCHANGE SEAT
SOLD FOR $rl),000
New York. Sopt. 27 A slock exchange
membership was sold yesterday for JiSl,.
cm, a gain of Jl.Ort over the last proced
ing transaction and tho maximum price
this year The names of the participants
weio not made known In Accordance, with
the custom of tho cominltto on admissions
lo omiiiuiieo transfers of seats only
after Its weekly meetings on Thursdays.
Tho highest price paid for a member
ship on tho board last year was $74,000.
Tho boom In stocks found rellectlon in
the advance Hots wero reported among
brokers yesterday that memberships
would sell for $100,000 earli within six
months, The high record price is $J5,00(l,
paid, lu tho bju market of aWo,
Tli I id Annual Exhibition to lie .Shown
October 'I. S.
St. Albans, Sept. 27. Tlie premium '1st
Just out, of tho third annual Industrial
and agricultural exhibition, to be held at
St. Albans Octobor 3-4-3, means a sliov-
of unusual Interest and value to Frank
lin county. Thora aro 11 classes, aa fol
lows: Class No. 1, fruit, apples, pears,
grapes, plums; No. 2, potatoes, Na. 3,
corn; No 4, eggs, white and brown. No.
i, forage, No. 6, grain oats, barley, bu;'
wheit, Held beans, No. 7, garden vsgf,
tables: No. S, canned goods; No. D, ha. ed
goods, No. !0, fancy work, best genet al
exhibit: No. 11, special prizes for ta '---t
stalk of corn, biggest oar of com. Inmost
potato, largest mangel, largest punukin.
largest squash, largest lien's ogg, smV!
est hen's egg, nny plant fieak that Is a
natural growth. Prizes of monev or ar
ticles worth $15 down to 5.50 are offered.
Tho show Is under tho auspices of the St.
Albans business nnd professional men s
association.
G. U Tiffany, county agricultural agent,
pays tho object of tho show Is two-fold:
"First. To bring about better co-opora-tlon
between business men of tlie towra
and cities and tho farmers; second. To
have an annual exhibit of products that
is n crodlt to Franklin county, which tho
farmers and city people may visit and
study. The City Ruslnoss and Profes
sional Men's association havo dono their
sh.iro In offering over SOT in prizes. 1
know n large number of farmers are go
ing to bring oxhlbits that aro first eAi,
for this show."
NOTES.
There !a an excellent llmo demonstra
tion, says Mr. Tiffany, on tho farm of
Carl Rrown of Swnnton, where lime was
applied to the soy baans last year anil
seeded this year. Reans, he says, will
stand moro wet and cold weather than
corn.
There is a very good crop of apples in
the county, while tlie country as a whole
will be 10,nfn),0i barrels short. It Is esti
mated. Good prices, therefore, aro ex
pected. Mr. Titfany recommends the Bos.
ton auction market.
Tho following nre tho orchard fiell
meetings to be held soon:
At form of M. D. Waller, Georgia, D:C'0
i 111., Friday; nt farm of S. J. Meigs, St.
Albans, 1:00 p. m., Friday; nt farm of F.
M. Wright, Enosburg, 0:0-3 a, m., Thurs
day; at farm of P. B. Swan. Montgomery,
1-00 p. m., Thursehiy. All of theso ot
chards ore demonstration orchards, vv'io -o
tho effects of proper pruning, fertilizing
and spraying is shown.
Mr. Tiffany urgos tho farmors, If the-
want to prove that Franklin is the be-t
dairy county In tho State, to come out
In as largo numbers as possible to attend
the national dairy show at Sprlngfle'd.
Mass. He wishes them to spend tho l'jth,
17th, ltll nnd 15th of Octobor In Spring
lleld. Tho start will be made from St.
Albans about 10:00 a m. on the 15th. Din
ner will be eaten at Montpeller nnd th
tlrst night will be spent at somo town
about II miles from Springlleld.
The county ngent has published a tab'.s
showing tho daily amount of milk, call
meal nnd water required bv calves of va
varlous births, weights and ages.
He used with approval a statement by
Prof. E S. Savage of Cornell University
on raising calves with substitutes fjr
milk. "Raise and breed your own stock,
is Professor Savage's slogan. "It Is a
great gain for the Industry of dairying
every time n farmer can be Interested to
Improve his herd by his own breeding."
ST. JOHNSBURY MAN
DRAGGED TO DEATH
George Perkins, .'..". Pntnlly Injured lu
lliintmiiy Acclili-nl.
St. Johnsbury, Sopt 27 Gcorgo Par
kins, &!i, man led, was fatally Injured to
day when a pair of horses which he wni
driving, ran away and dragged him about
10 feet, it Is thought that a wheel piun
ed over his head as ho suffered multiple
frnctuics of the skull. Tho accident o--.
ciirred at Arthur Young's farm about
thieo miles from here. Dr. W. H. Kltr;i
was called and ordered tho man's removal
to Rrlghtlook hospital but lie died In thu
ninbiilauco lieforo lie nnived there. Ho
was employed by Henry Wilson, Ho loawi
two sons and two daughters nnd an ngo,
mother The funernl will be, held Friday I
jjit .Wftlilon -bis former Uojna. jmlttfa
