TODAY'S PRICES i
HOME EDITION
1MEM
PAEiS
' r ..per -"((
EI rua and west Texaa, fair. New
Mrxieo. fair. Arizona, fair.
LATEST NEWS BY ASSOCIATED PRESS.
pi.vgi.e copt five cents. EL PASO. TEXAS, THURSDAY EVENING. SEPTEMBER 28. 1916 wliveud anywhere c a month
FOURTEEN PAGES TODAY.
El J 4
A
ia y ga
In r Tn urn aJQi
ar-Bfrl - 2zW- . j' sat aya. wg b -JBL tger
GREECE DECIDES TO FIGHT BULGARIA
ARTILLERYlTWQ CARRANZA
i
Germans Renew Assault At
Verdun But Are Checked
By The French.
RUSSIANSRESUME
TERRIFIC ATTACK
'Bulgars Wage Determined
Defensive Operations On
Macedonian Front.
Y rVTjr. Eng Sept 2S. British
i troops Wednesday night advanced , cost of living. This is one of the ques-
i- a' arious points on the Sonhne tions that always is or paramount lm-
i. . , ., . . . . I portance among: the people who earn
f nt . tween Jlartinpuich and Guede- thtir bread , tne sweat of their faces.
j-t. as the British official state- I This pledge was not kept. Did the
E ued todav I Democratic party make this pledge
, . . " , . , , I knowing it could not or would not
" mlent struggle is being kept I t,,. .,?
t- wjt-ojt cessation by the artillery, j If so. it has forfeited public con-
-1. French haw h.-en thrusting out . fidence. No party has any claim to
. . .,.. ' lublic support which recklessly makes
" ' "- "- " I pledges whicn it cannot or win nui
5 iri-oa
ASSERTS PflBTY'S i
PLEDGES BROKEN
Fairbanks Declares Demo
crats Have Failed to Low
er the Cost of Living.
Colorado Springs. Colo- Sept. "8.
i The Democratic party has not kept its
pledge to reduce the high cost of liv
ing. Charles W. Fairbanks. Republican
carididate for vice president, charged
in an address here this afternoon. The
speaker also touched upon the tariff,
the Mexican situation and economic
conditions in this country at the termi
nation of the European war.
"The Republican party." said Mr. f
MtlroanKs, -nas Kept laitn witn tne
American people since the days of
Abraham Lincoln, when he consecrated
his mighty services to the cause of
human liberty. The Republican party
uARRANZA FORCES
EEDtOEIliS Ml EiGnTSllEDlED
LOVAL TO WIFE1 VILLflUNTIL ICBOSSTHERH
OJuiLJUl
Believes Wounded Woman
Innocent, Though Shot
With Graveur.
Philadelphia. Pa.. Sept. S8 Hurry
in;; to the bedside of his wife, the one
survivor in the triple shooting in a ho
tel here early AVednesday. I.CLe Due
of Chicago, today said that he had
every confidence in her loyalty to him
and that he would stick to her through
all her trouble.
Mrs. Le Due is In Jefferson hospital.
She was Improved today and physicians
expect her to recover. She was shot
by Mrs. Harry Belzer. of New York.
who found her and J. C Graveur. also
jf New York, In a hotel room. Mrs.
Belzer killed Graveur. who had dis
carded her after a friendship of two
ISffillTHII
OiiEIHHD
Fifty Appear Near Cinecue Papers, With Jubilation,
i and Are Chased Back By State Submarine Has
TJ .S. Cavalry.
has pledged its faith nrtr and over years, and also ended her own life.
again and not to this hour has its
pledge fone to public protest.
"One of the most earnest pledges of
Democracy was to reduce the high
I keep.'
" ' H- uOi announcement says
" - nsr the nii;ht our line was ad-
t- M at annu? points between
X a-i ' t j h and ju le. .-urt and posts
wc-c is -i jlished west and southwest
-j o .-t L'A tje and within 800
T,l . VlL i f
j. ft o- nj- rr .'it our posi-i.n'-o!
,i-, oi the ridge
- Thu i i i .ittalion of
r tr with transport was
i 'i ihe march b our artillery
a- s-w' r--fnlly swelled
The fishtmg in the last few days
s a . '-igularl econo-nical Our
. si v;c c t-niall i u oi'! relatively
t" e 'npurtanc- of ojr gains, but
a s Our t Tl casualties were
r:t "e tnan tn . e tnt number of
c : i f r.tis t.ilv-n
Cermank- Attack, at "Verdan.
I Keep."
wmmmm
EOS NEWYDRK
At the hospital Le Due told his wife
I to cheer up. and that he would for
give her and take her back to Chicago.
Drnlril Tratrllnir With Grnveur.
Mrs. Le Due said she came to Phila
delphia by train and not by automobile
as reported, to see her nephew. She
denied that she had traveled to various
cities with Graveur and suggested that
her identity had been confused with
that of Mrs. Belzer.
Mn. I.e Due' Matrmmf.
The wounded woman said Graveur
told her he had come to Phtladelohla
with Mrs. Belzer and then persuaded
her to go back to New York. Mrs. Le
Due said she and Graveur went to a
theater, then supper and flien to a
dance on the roof garden of the hotel.
She said she did not want to be en
cumbered with her hand bag and at
Graveurs suggestion, she left it In his
room on the floor below. Mrs l.e Due
further said she intended returning
Reached New London, Ct.
Berlin, Germany. Sept 28. From
some source German newspapers have
been informed that the commerce sub
marine Bremen has arrived at New
London, Conn., and they are printing
the report as a fact in great detail,
showing maps indicating the location
of the American port, together with the
history of the town.
The news of the Bremen relieves
the protracted tension, which had
grown Intense as the expected arrival
of the submarine was delayed from
week to week. Apparently authentic
rumors had been In circulation that
the Bremen sailed early in August.
Hence fears were entertained in some
quarters that something had gone
wrong with her and the report of her
arrival bad been greeted by the news
papers as paving the way for the es
tablishment of a regular submarine ser
vice between Germany and the United
States.
High Officer In Command.
AH the newspapers today print a
sketch' of Capt Schwartakopff. captain
of the Breman. who was for a long time
in the service of the North German
Lloyd steamship company. He served
for years on the steamer Kaiser Wil
helm der Grosse and distinguished
himself in rescue work in the Ho-
boken pier fire in 1900. Capt Sehwartz
kopf f was the first officer of the Prinz
Frederich Wilhelm when the war broke
out. Tne steamer was then at Spitz
bergen on a nolar excursion, but rrr.
eeeded in making a home port without
encountering the British fleet.
There have been many reports of
the expected arrival of the merchant
submarine Bremen at various points on
ine Aiunira oasr recently, out up to
the present she is not docked In anv
lng communication with Santa Ysabel "General Matias Ramos, with a strong .f " The announcement of her ar-
i pursuing the bandit Villa, , " """-'" f"y "
Colonel and Small Command
Battle To Death; Bodies
Burned; Town Looted.
CAVAZ0SG0ES
OUT; DEFEATED
Only Five Survivors Return
To Chihuahua City, With
Ears Sliced Off.
t-jjO'SY CoL Carlos Zuazua. and a band
M of 30 of his Carranelsta troops
" fought to the death against at
tacking Villistas is related in El Demo
crata of Chihuahua city, copies of
ihjch have been received here. The
massacre of the Carrancistas occurred
at Santa Ysabel on the night of Sept.
20. and is described by the newspaper
ir substance as fellows:
CoL Zuazua occupied his private car
at Santa -fsabeL guarded by 30 men. ' 0f 0,0 Juarez garrison. Is due to return
the only ones who has not deserted him ! Saturday from Casas uranaes ana
o? 'meUTifiafen oneted fnPsWt,oergutedagaJnan,yS mI
of zv men. led by v ilia in person opened . " . r h. iruii.t..
fir. An .1.. .- ?...,.. m kl. ..... Mfc IV .. v. tut. .......
... wu &uc wa . .uMud. an uia ai,i,i ,
A patrol of four cavalrymen from
the eighth cavalry encountered a band
of 59 armed Mexicans on this side of
the river, near Cinecue crossing, 10
miles from El Paso, at 1 p. m. Wednes
day. The Mexicans fled at the- approach of
the Americans. One of them dropped a
Mauser gun. the sling of which con
tained the inscription: "Troop K. 16th
cavalry."
Carrlxal Sling Found.
Troop K was the one that took part
in the battle of CarrizaL
The American patrol was commanded
by Corp. H. A. Bosh, troop IL eighth
cavalry. Sounds of shooting attracted
the attention of the Americans to the
raiders, who were prowling In a
"bosque" near the river.
Denial at Comandanda.
"The only armed Mexicans in the
wcinltv In Question are our armed
soldiers." said Lieut. CoL Leon Buclon.
eammandtng the Juarez garrison in
the absence of Gen. Francisco Gon
zales. "If any armed men were seen they
were probably our cavalrymen patrol
ing the line."
Gen. Francisco Gonzalez, commander
rison. Is due to return
Casas Grandes and
h.r'iSnST.K'toK. , VILLA WILL NOT GET FAR
guard, locked the doors. NORTH, PREDICTS TREV1N0
Ilodlea Ilurnrdt Town Looted. j Gen. Jacinto B. Trevino. commander
For tto hours CoL Zuazua and hm nt ail rw ... ,rf.r. in rhihuahna hA.
10 j.ew iork that night and after the , tr.en kept up resistance. But the Villis- lleves that Villa is going to have a
dance she went with Graveur to his I tas rushed the car, killed everyone in- hard time marching northward, as it
room for the sole purpose of setting ; siae and then set fire to the car. After has been reported he is attempting to
the band bag. As thev returned. Mrs. I thin thn vnifctoK inntMi cata Tuii j. s. 1 ji 1 a 1 - s....t..
Tlof nrrnirioe rt TWoVo nt T pner ?5 8L,r ,rlrs- ". whom Gra- 1 and sacked the Carranelsta supply sta- received a telegram from Gen. Trevino
Determines tO Make at l.eaSt veur thought he hadlnduced to return j tion ojiood and clothing. ' ThursSy telling of the pursuit at the T
! Twn RTlPP.r'.hp.R in Rtatft! !.,NEL.I0:::J?pe,1 from a cIoset . Trertno at Chihuahua cltyfind- bandita. The mervage read: 1'
..- n..; - - "-" --".. iing commttnicauon wltn Santa Ysabel "Gene
TTT-ll Awmrrnw U mvnr Irn fZnnA PVfnffa i hraWn RAflt fZn Cavnm with nl. &.!.....
W LLl -H-U3 w ci J-LUguco. U Dm h nuinr 0 imi hmrk fnm to introt. r-,c,.. f .. ti i . ii.u. i... . ... .....i lli from one of these many are
nf a Vat? Tnrir i4Aihini, vm...a .H 1. f.. n- c kj.&. .... c .. -r- . .. . ...... . j v, mature renorts reachincr thA r,Armcn
77 . T, . Sr mJ5.enti ,nx,cIHb 5d srolflng circles, when he was attacked and routed by, troop3 have reached here and I think. ca?.".1-1 A -, ... ...
ident Wilson to Mrs. Charles F. "V ogeding. sister of Mrs. ' Villa. the bindit will fare badly in his at-', e London. Baltimore and Norfolk
nave own riporiea as tne oesunauon
of the Bremen. Recently there has
Mobilization Of Army Is To
Begin; Bulgaria Is To
Be the Enemy.
CONSTANTINE HAS
REACHED DECISION
Greece, By Declaration
Against Bulgaria, Is Join
ing the Entente.
ATHENS. Greece, SejJt. 3T. (Via
London, Sept. 18. The Associat
Press is in a position to state
positively that king Constantine de
cided this morning in favor of an Im
mediate declaration of war against
Bulgaria.
Reports that a general mobilization
has been ordered are premature. Af te
the session of the council of ministers
at the palaae this morning, premier
out. xne steamer was then at Spitz- Kalogeroponlos hastily called a cabine
1 cti hi- betn resumed
ith tr . t.tnian?- a pam at- prominent issues of the campaign were
-g I'-onh- M-u- The assaults made at a conference here today be-
rber -' nl: d their vio- i the president. Vance C McCor-lc-
n si.uihi'n ulhynia and mick. chairman of the Democratic na
C a rt-i'on a vtut-born defence tional committee and secretary Tu-
1. T "-Ge-iran armies , .-, , . .- .
.donia ome additional re- "- u,nB ap .C4JU
.ieterinmed Bulgarian re- as a foundation, the president is pre
paring to build up the Democratic case
in a series of addresses on political
subjects.
Mux! Carry ev York.
Mr. Wilson, it was decided, definitely
Long Branch, X.
lmnffmnt fnr nrMiiilpnt
assail the Republican stand on tho If1?; ner ist.ir's married life I
.. u v,.. a,. aiiu mci vAb jj ea-
F-
f f s
tie -ntv-nte offensive.
Balxrlan Column Diaprmed.
' of tol.i s Pan, statement
c r ' j: tjpfiatioiis uu the Macedonian
-I'tij. front tii tish ariillery bom
Chicago. III. Sept. 28 The romance
Of all TnWA crlr-1 l.aa ,...
m- ' i- win moVi at leirnt two sneeches I .ii.j " ". "J . . ."V",
the,rr-Ta. vSr .7.7; "nnVin New York "XT?i-J?'' Ane. lftBt ""k
SurvlTora' Ears Cut Off. j tempt to go north."
Five survivors of the fight arrived in
saTdau'alfd lTdSc" l 0!?, ASKS $3000 FOR ARMS SAID
.i - - , ne t-lvw i anil RllffAHnc- fram thti nr(i,rAB nH . . .. .
friends.
Iowa Girl's Wedding
Will Delay Exposure
Of Blackmail Scheme
..: ,,... cantonments In the , fn xw York state, one in New York , plot which resulted S Th.
c t ' ..f Jenm. ,n a Bulgarian col- ! .,,,. vw Tnrlt citv and the !-!- , J, resulted In the fleec-
i' , iisnt in th- fire of heavv hat- 8tate- ,one .. ,e Tt r K ,,, ', , ' 'n ot a rich Iowa merchant out o
i . i(iii ,n.11 "T" oi neaiy mi (other in Buffalo. He will also make jiatM ..". wu a.
t
!-
s s'jvamed 1 texes and was
a,s" t a speech in St. Louis.
-'w rtn rront 1 le eneuv did not
re. -i.s attacks against Kaimakca--
r, -T-.iin A small portion of
r - . ajUtjred b the Bulgarians at
1 3 1- i r .st them heavj losses.
- on- left wing two Bulgarian at
- -s j-. red against our positions
t j c-et and west of Fiorina were
ae-cs' fa
1 'ur :-i1ti-s bombarded Kenali,
to the s-Jthtast of Monadtir."
XTZvli-rwin 4" TrtTrr KnTTinn ii'riTlr
r UiiliUia ab new iucaiuu j. ail Roosevelt will make at least five
DiSt)laV EnerffVi Dam ! speeches in western states for Hughes
nf
J16.6(M).
T" jj . rrt i ,j - 1 ... I - :. "' --"- ..uva ab iUC VIClim
. rrwwwu iiswu u. w.u . . "- or tne blackmailers, is to be married
termined that the Democrats must A.th.r h rj.i " .. -"riT" .
Carl,NeWJTork Stte 'f ", !l M L1 today to delay arVests until iVtw the
possible and every energy of thscainv girrs wedding The names of the Iowa
palgn committee will be directed to- vlctIm and of hls swindIerB ?uio
ward that end. be made public until arrests are made.
In his addresses the president will " "-
in the campaign speeches of his op- j HUGHES GOES TO TRENTON:
ponent Charles K Hughes. Republican VISITS PITTSRIIRf: CTFFI Mil 1 C
nominee for the presidency. I ---- . w..u hiiiilj
Pittsburg. Pa.. RepL 28. Charles E.
Hughes. Republican candidate for th.
presidency, went today to Trenton. N. '
J., to address an audience there. He '
win spcaic tonignt at Saratoga Springs,
Wednesday Mr. Huerhe viitA,f i.
steel mills her speaking to several I
muusano enmusia.-tic workmen.- He
devoted most attention to the protec
tive tariff, declaring tie present pros
perity would not last after the Euro
pean war unless a suitable tariff were
adopted He also devoted time to the
Adamson law.
ELPHKET .IGU. UOSEIELT
N. M. EXHIBITS KW SPDK HEBE
Chicago. Ill . Sept :8. Col. Theodore
Dedication Planned.
B f.. . MARTIN.
Albuwrue N. JL, Sept. 2S. Kl
PY-so's f legation to the New Mexico
Elate f.u- busied itself today securing
ex'iii'it'- f-r the Soil Products exposi
t " ir 1"' Pao in October The Grant
c t v n n-ral exhibit, the -Torrance
in dr farm chihit and several
- CThiti ts are already promised, in-
sr !.- exhibit of tht New Mexico
L Vr lege of Mx-illa Taik
Inspect" Railroad T Dnm.
J. A Happer and W. R B"Own joined
and Fairbanks next month, according
to reports today at western Republican
national headquarters.
Although his itinerary has not been
definitely arranged, it is said he may
deliver addresses at Chicago. Indian
apolis. Denver, El Paso. Texas and San
Francisco.
SOCIALIST CANDIDATE IS
and suffering from their tortures and i
HAVE BEEN SENT TO S0N0RA
been much activity in NewLondon br
officials of the Eastern Forwarding
meeting: The premier declared the
government was giving the fullest con
sideration to the situation and said
there might be addressed to Bulgaria
a note of such character that mobiliza
tion would logically follow.
King Reaches Decision.
Later in the day It developed that
the king had decided on a declaration
of war against Bulgaria. The decision
has not yet been announced publicly, as
numerous details remain to be worked
out.
Germany May Declare War.
By declaring war against Bulgaria.
Greece will automatically join the en
tente allies. Because of the king's
Teutonic connections, war will not be
umareu agaimt uermany or Austria-
company. American agents for the Ger- j Hungary. It remains to be seen, howl
hardships, to tell tho story of the rout. ,7 "-" ..", " 1,u"u, man merchant submarines. A report ' ever, whether Germany will not declare
Gen. Cavazos. his ears unmarred. also A suit Involving J00 in payment for from Westerly. R. I , September 25! said i war against Greece hA-a.e ? r?.VrZ?--
appeared. He said the bandits had arms said to have been shipped to Gen. I a tug had left there to meet a German
thrown one of his officers, alive, into "- Ellas Calles of Sonora, Mex has I submarine which was on its way to
a welL j been filed by Bridgers & Harrington in New London.
Fortunate Zuazua. a former VUIista ' tne lst district court on behalf of J.
general and brother or Hie dead Car- E. Anderson vs. T. G. Michelena and the JAPAN STILL OPPOSES
ranclsta colonel, went to TSanta Ysabel i Bank of Douglas. rvr-i ncirim nc cito rrr-rp
to recover the body of CoL Zuazua. I Anderson claims to have bought the CALLUoIUIX Uf oUDJCllo
f.r !;0rhv!ri,Jr;'i?. .7?7V. i,? Washington. D. C. Sept. 2S.-Japan
-pIELD HEADQUARTERS. American tendered 3001 lAsaTdT Tithhe'cni'fed esh
U Punitive Expedition in Mexico. ; Anderson says the Bank of Douglas MSSSeTft? theadmuln oTja'panese
-- Sent. SS. lltr lta,ll tn -,! k. . guaranteed this draft, but that It has . ii.i .,, j ,ni ,K.n .
rf w &w ru usuaras -- , V .ll I Mmm vuuuii r auu aiivniub LfXiLtt .v
""' irecu imiu. acoulre lnd hnt merely iMatmnnl
them In view of the larger Issues aris
ing out of the European war. according
to baron Yoshiro Sakatani. former min
ister of finance, expressed in a state-
Chihuahua City, Ilex.. Sept 2S. I ment at " York. The truth or the
Troops of Gen. Matias Ramos, which assertion was freely admitted Wednes-
N. JL) Francisco Villa with 690 men
was at Santa Clara ranch, 36 miles east
of Naraiqulpa on September 22 for the
immediate purpose of capturing trains
near Laguna and with the ulterior no
(Continued on Pnge 4. Column s.)
Resourceful, Aggressive
Men Wanted
We want men who can success
fully sell a real good newspaper, the
very best In the southwest. We
want men of the highest type, re
sourceful and aggressive. Do not
answer if you are merely curious,
but if you are in earnest and If you
are big enough to qualify, a good
position awaits you.
Call In person or write to IL IL
Frls, circulation manager of The El
Paso Herald.
TROOPS OF GEN. RAMOS
FAIL TO ENGAGE VILLA
hostility toward Bulgaria, the ally of
Germany. The queen of Greece is a
relative of emperor William of Germany.
rST'J"t ComDl Bnln of Greece.
; """-""""n ot w against Bul
garia is the only way seen to prevent
the complete ruin of Greece. The re-
r I other ?reek Princes, the de
fection, of a large part of the army
, "organization of the remainder
.mL be iact Jhat a nnbr of battle
ships and other Greek war craft haVe
?LlJLA?fIo",'rtncn ne-' has made i
change of Grecian attitude from benev
oi tne entente imperative
have been scouting west or Chihuahua da n'snt at the Japanese embassy
city have failed thus far to encounter , heJe- . ... .,.... ...
bandits. TrooDS of Gens. Elizondc Japan is said to consider that the
Garza and Col. Borjas are In the vicin- uslon policy of the United States
Ity of Custhuiriachlc, awaiting orders as practiced on the Pacific coast Is
to cooperate.
CATTLII SIIIPMCVTS FROM
CIIIIIU.VnUA IXCRB.VSING.
Cattle are being exported from Chi
huahua in constantly increasing num
bers, according to senor Alberto Dtaz.
new collector of customs fn Juarez.
Customs house receipts are showing a
steady increase. Several trainloads of
derogatory to Japan's dignity and is
discriminatory against Japanese subjects.
BANKERS URGE UNIVERSAL
MILITARY TRAINING FOR U. S.
Kansas City. Mo Sept 2S. Advocacy
of universal military training in this
country and greater participation in
catUe and sheep have been shipped 1 ". an greater participation in
I from Chihuahua ranches to . Bl Paso ! n"001- and municipal politics
i recently
TmrffB tj r a a.k lu
aa'vaur, .w. ai j ffit IU7 lUCICHaQi
were urged here today by speakers be
fore the American Bankers association.
Military service for all young men
I Airriniiltuml lmnlmnt -. Kas-lnnlno .
I to be sent south, which la nleasinc- the J3 declared necessary by James J.
MPTfran riMtnmii anthnrltiaa I
Mexican customs authorities.
STORY OF LUDWIG MEYERS, RECRUIT, U. S. A.
4USTRIANWH0M HYPHEN WAS NOT MADE FOR
IIY WALLACE
PIELD Headquarters. American Pu- j of the truck,
nitive Expedition, in Mexico vl bowled.
- anmnlin. In PAlnmhiw V r . i Blackle.
SMITH.
The other recruits
the truck driver, wno in
here after iniecting th- an address here Wednesday night. In
r-, n railroad to Elephant Butte dam answer ' 2ne8"on. "r T"1 wo1u'3
c . . M ou have done which has been asked
a-a S' ii-g that it was safe for run- f president Wilson's critics, he said:
H r; an xoursion for the dedication on j '"I would not have boasted that the
, , r n alue of food exports from this countrv
' . ., .. ., 1 during the past year exceeded JSO,O0.-
r Cnrer Regarding Dedication. , ooe Xot a pound of food would have
M- if.-iiper conferred here with Got ' left the United States so long as there
T i" :cPTi.ild on tne dedication, and was a hungry man, woman or child in
i' at'ernoon for r.as Vegas to i . a,' .. , ,, . . '
V. hen the price of flour i higher
c fer itn . A. Jones A meeting i than it has been since the civil war I
!, n.nt Texti an! New Mexico Fhould have asked congress to place an
t- mi i . will beheld Mondai or Toe mbargo upon the exportation of flour.
. . ' I should never have signed an armv
c r v ' at I.as Cru.-es t.. -"-range de- hllI that mciuded a draft clause. There
;jMr d.dication . M-DonaI.l ould be no war t to , ,w.
T e r"v'"' " , v S,J- " without a popular vote on the
a -v--v.f- t fn sf.i m itirin fiv-s: a r- . .- v .a. w .
i t i-i i rai ui ihc si-tmiiion'j-ii tjsi. ivt"
IN FAVOR OF FOOD EMBARGO ' Sept. 28.lLdw,g Beyers Turned up ! SK SSTSr !ena?e.rs.rnSd-ded0"0
-gain in Bl Valle during the recent ' approval
inspecUon trip. It was good to see j dl -'w"'' main'" ot a soN
him again and to see what the army j The first night our captain decided
was doing for him. I to camp in the exact center of a desert
One observer, at least. Is always go- b"nde,d,,j? it?! Hid1",,n.,y by "" norl;
., ' j r ion After the delightful ceremony of
ing to feel that Ludwig and the United i the "chow wagon." the outfit prepared
Boston. Mass . Sept. 28 Allen L. Ben
on of New York. Socialist candidate
for president, continued his attacks
upon the presidential candidates of the
Republican and Democratic parties in
t"e nert t ation
EI I'ano Contingent Increased.
J F Wilhims and f-Til'v en rou.e
ea 'Mr i I jmso sioppea oter nert
would be the first to be sent '
MEXICAX-AMERICAX CVVOlS
ADJOURN UNTIL MiXT WEBIO
New London. Conn Sent R The
Zw 'th "he El Pasoans and Malcom I Mexican-American joint commission
States army are going to be mutually
benefited by aBOclation.
Ludwig Meyers first came to this
writer's attention about Iwo months
ao. It was on a jolting, bucking mo
tor truck. In the truck were a dozen
raw recruits. consigned to Colonia
Dublan and El Valle For the most of
tiem, their uniforms did not fit and
their unfamiliar rifles were forever
poking their muzzles careless at
one'S had.
"The MaLln'a of n Soldier."
It was the rifle dodging that directed
tl.e attention to Ludwig His gun at
no time threatened to terminate one's
interest in the expedition. During the
whole rough trip he held his gun Just
Alter a wntie one noticed that
F-cser 'om"d the party here, returning j after a brief session, adjourned today there was more "fit" about the knees
f . tT p to Arizona In the interest j to meet again on Monday next at At- I of Ludwig-s breeches. And he did not
tf thes I Products exposition. 'latnic City. 1 complain at the bouncing and jarring
j for sleep. The veterans, of course, had
j their blankets spread before mess.
"bb aiterwara. tne recruits were
prowling around helplessly.
"Gee, I can't find a place to sleep,"
complained one of them
"RIackie" lelled his delight.
'No place to sleep" he repeated
nd the whole state of Chihnnhtta f.-
I a bed."
! Rifle Hln Rest Friend.
T looked around for Ludwig and
found him . urled up in his blankets
under one of the trucks. But he was
nleej T hid no opportunity to talk
to him until the next day. During a
halt called for the purpose of dragging
a balky car back on the road. I asked
him by way of opening up conversa
tion, how he learned to hold his rlfls
right side up.
"When I came in this army." said
Ludwig. with a decided German ac
cent, "they told me that my rifle was
my beet friend. So I take care of It."
He stated later that he was from
Austria and had come to this country
to live and get married and generally
be a good citizen.
"But why plclc out the army?" Lud
wig was asked. "So many of your
countrymen come here to avoid such
service."
"Over there I would have to b In
the army," said Ludwig. "Over here
I want to be in the army. That is a
differenbe. isn't it? You see. I am go
ing to live in this country and my
children will live here. too. So I want
to do my share for this country."
Hyphen Not Made for LudiTljr.
I left the truck train at lolonta
Dublan. It was not until four vmIu
later that I reached El Valle. Then I
IESTIS
AGAIN ATTACKED
Lynch, of San Francisco, president of j
tne association, and rank A. Vanderlip
of New York.
Mr. Lynch stated preparedness was
necessary because "we are today the
most tempting prize under the blue
clared canopy of heaven." Mr. Vander
lip declared It to be "the surest insur
ance of peace."
N. Y. STRIKE DOES NOT
SEEM MUCH IN EVIDENCE
New York. Sept 2S. Leaders of
union labor appeared todav to him
met with small success In their renewed
t'forts to bring about their promised
Seneral strike to ah! the striking trac
tion employes, which was called to be
gin yesterday. Despite the claims of
the leaders that the number who have
OUlt WOrlC totals tAftn anil mmA -a.
lice officials said todaj that if a strike c S- n TTI.KSHIPS MAKE
Berlin. Germany. Sept 2S. German
aviators Wednesday again dropped a
great number of bombs on Bucharest,
according to today's official statement.
which adds that "several points of the
Rumanian capital are still burning a
the result of our previous attack"
ALLIES REPULSED ON GREAT
PART OF FRONT-GERMANY
Berlin. Germanv :,.
troops Wednesday victoriously repulsed
the Anglo-French forces on a great
K! i thl batt,e front betweeiTthe
7h etnL,k and the rt'er Somme. says
,h2 c!faI sttem'"t li today by
the German army headquarters staff.
H.S?.nMX Am3," KILLED.
ii.. . "" Germany. Sept. g. Lieut
Wintgens. who. next to Capt Boefke"
aViltte'?,anils mosJ famd Shtlng"
aviator, has been killed in an engage-
,f ,h uried according to his own wish
on the spot where he felL
v- J"T TOACTICE RECORDS.
Newnort New v c... Ar"
Ueships of the Atlantic fleet in thr
a2Ual snn,nier "e practice which
ended Tuesday made the heat scores
or several years, according to reports
rode to th. .n.i..nnri.MhL:.,. ' " driven by George H. PauL of the .7 .?."lasnor Irom Lne .et after
inspiring military panorama was spread ; hospital corps stationed at Fort Bliss. . The dreadnought FloriSa It m.
for the eye of Gen Pershing inou- h a miraculous es.ape from Injury saidV led uK shins ta inrtivM.i JT
sxnds of soldiers of all branches stood , Wednesday night at T 2 orlock. when at short and tateTiit ZlP.S
...e, ere lor.eo 10 orive into a ditch 1 5i hit. In .rC.v.K"-"'"
-- -" -v. niw me xejeas
was in progress there was little evi
dence of It.
AUTO DRIVES INTO HITCH
TO AVOID SWITCH HN'GINE
iour persoaa riding in an automo-
at attention as Gen. I'ershing rode up
and down the lines
second, the Wyoming1 third and the
new superdreadnought Pennsylvania
fourth.
to avoid being strurk bv a switch en
One oung figure strurk the eve ' K'n or the KI Pa-o ,v Southwestern
Erect and proud he stood oier his , railwav near Thurlow aenue and
soIdierH possessions spread out rrop- ; Montana street.
en on nis shelter tent half. In his I "e -ni-n eiiKine. it is. sain, aid not CIIINBsu MINISTER TO U. s
It was Ludwig. I wanted to catch ' automobile was within a few feet of pekln China. Sent 'V5Sr u4.0?'
his eye but when I rode by his eyes the intersection of the tracks when It ton koo. mlnit.r to tlltnr J?S"
wer. fixed vni1v trirh. .h..rf , was discovered Th. other ooc.iT.nis l" "?? mmjiter to the United States.
according to regulations. So I spoke , of the automobile were Mr and Mrs.
to his troop commander. P O Kberlick and Reula Green.
"Best recruit I ever had." said that i
individual "Wish thev were all like H- CONWAY .CQ.riTTED.
that man " I J. H. Conway, charged with havinir
M
L t
! J
Somehow, one feels that the much killed Edward Ralr.e n. Cnt..h.. .f
lamented "hyphen ' was not made for 11S. was acquitted la judge Dan M.'
-. a ijuunib ncjoiB. jarawR a court inursday axternaon.
office, giving ill health as the reason.
The resignation has not yet been ac
cepted by the president Dr. Koo s
resignation has created surprise in
Pekln. Tang Shao Yl. the recently ap
pointed foreign minister. Is opposed to
Dr, Koo because of his monarchical
leanings.
oighborly Visits Through the Southwest Are Increasingly Profitable
