•T~ j"'
iW v-Vi ....
••*'»", *-:i
VOL. XXII, NO. 15.
RURAL SCHOOLS'
FINE PROGRESS
MOFFLU8D FARMERS PRACTICE
COOPERATION—CANNING
DEMONSTRATIONS
School opened in Grenora in the
new building Sept. 18.
The new three room building at
Trenton is expected to be ready About
Oct. 1.
The new consolidated Hpfflund
school opened Sept. 26 with *B. J.
Grindy as principal and Viola Fal
coner assistant. In connection with
the building of the Hofflund school,
the farmers of the community thru
the iniative of the Farmers' club,
made a fine'demonstration of "the ben
efits of co-operation. The farmers
donated the work of excavating and
building the concrete foundation and
hauled tire lumber to the site without
charge. .Altogether the ^donations
saved tht district about $1000 on the
cost of.tiie building.
The State school appropriation for
the counties for August has been is
sued. 'Williams county received
$6365.80. This is apportiened among
the different districts of the county
according to the school population,
which is now 4547, or 258 more than
a year ago. The per capita is $1.40.
Lindaiil Consolidated school has
beeri closed for two weeks on account
of scarlet fever. Incidentally Lindahl
has developed into the largest consol
idated school in the county with an en
rollment.of 74 pupils and.a faculty of
three instructors. The course includes
one full year of high school work.
The school in Dist. 41 is closed for
about two weeks on account of diph
theria.
Stony Creek Consolidated, Jay Bat
ten pnnapal, has just added a Vic
trola to its school equipment.
All teachers who have not had their
certificates ^recorded are requested by
the county superintendent to send
them in to her office for recording.
Last week Superintendent Pesfcer
son went to Stanley to confer with
the Superintendent, V. A. Lovell, with
reference to co-operation as to the
dates of the annual meetings of teach
ers and school officers in Williams and
Mountrail counties. The Williams
county meeting wil be Oct. 31 and
Nov. 1. The Mountrail county meet
ing the two days immediately follow
ing. This will enable the educators
•who will be invited to speak at these
meetings to do so without loss of time.
Miss Helen J. Sullivan who is sent
•out by the Domestic Science depart
ment of the. A. C. is this week giving
demonstrations in vegetable and fruit
canning at several schools including
IBonetraill, Palmer, Tioga, Brooklyn,
and others. The women of the school
fCommunities have been invited to at
tend these demonstrations.
Saturday afternoon Miss Sullivan
will give a demonstration before the
"Missouri Ridge and Happy Hollow
farmers clubs in the Congregational
ehurdi basement in Williston.
Got Pointers From
Neighboring Cities
Secretary F. S. Morrill of the com
mercial club returned Saturday after
a brief outing at Glacier National
6lavre.
ark and visits to Great Falls and
At both cities Mr. Morrill
was the guest of the commercial club
and given every opportunity to ob
serve civic methods and progress. At
Great Falls he was one of the speak
ers at a luncheon at the Rainbow ho
tel called for the purpose of con
ference. The Great Falls club has
been put on basis of high efficiency
through employment of the budget
system and paid commercial experts.
About $17,000. per year is paid into
the fund by business men and prop
erty owners and both a secretary and
At Havre Secretary McCrosske of
the commercial body showed Mr. Mor
rljj every courtesy, taking him over
the city and explaining the local civic
pro&Jems and the methods by which
they have been met. Havre, while it
has fallen somewhat behind Williston
in population and does not equal us
as to residence streets and the work
of boulevarding and parking the res
idence streets is more extensive and
pleasing in effect. By furnishing an
expert road engineer to oversee the
work and cooperating with the farm
ers the Havre club has the roads
leading into the city in fine condition.
CHINA WEDDING
Mr. and Mrs. M. S. Phillips cele
brated the twentieth anniversary of
their marriage at their farm home,
Maydell just north of the city, Fri
day evening, September 22nd. About
thirty-five guests attended the china
wedding and brought Mr. and Mrs. I
Phillips many useful presents. A nice'
lap supper was served and a delight
ful social evening enjoyed.
a traffic man devote their full time to but no one making a touchdown. It
the city's affairs.
New Suburban Tracts
From Field Homestead
About 20 years ago Gene Field filed
on 160 acres of land less than four
blocks from the North end of Mam
street. He lived on this land from
that time until about seven years ago
when the Williston Experimental
.farm was to be located. In order to
secure the present location of the
-Experimental farm which is an ideal
one the Williston Land Company pur
chased the whole of the Gene Field
Farm and a large part of it was turn
ed over to the state. Sixty -acres re
mained of the farm and this passed
into other hands. J. W. Jackson and
W. B.. Overson have made arrange
ments with the present owner to
divide the tract into 5 and 10 acre
tracts and put them
on
the marked
Lying so close to the city limits it
will be possible for purchasers to ar
range for water, electric lights and
sewer connections so that modern
conveniences may be afforded them.
As the tract is very level rich land,
the operation of the irrigation project
would mean that lawns, trees, shrub
bery, flowers and gardens could be
watered at a minimum expenditure of
time and money. The possibility of
making these suburban homes beauti
ful and attractive is very apparent,
while the practicability of making the
land support a family by intensive
cultivation is attractive as an invest
ment, to say nothing about the in
crease in value that will come to them
as the city grows. Erick Kather has
recently completed a beautiful resi
dence on a tract just west of these
plots.
II
FIRST 10 SIDNEY
HIGH SCHOOL FOOTBALL SEA
SON OPENED—SIX TO NOTH
ING GAME SATURDAY
The Williston high school football
team in charge of Coach Cutting and
Director Vettel went to Sidney, Mont.,
Saturday for the first game of the
season. While marked by the defects
that are never escaped in early season
the work of the team showed much on
which to build confidence of of future
strength. Sidney won by one touch
down to none but the game virtually
a tie as the Williston hoys once put
the ball over the goal line but lost on
a fumble before the point winning act
of touching it down could be accom
plished.
The leading features of the close
and stubborn struggle are thus de
scribed by "C. M," an eye witness:
On Sidney's kickoff, the ball came
in contact with Stonewall walker and
bounded back among the opponents.
Away they went with it for a big
gain, until they reached Packard, our
fast half-back. There they stopped
and Jack the giant killer lay on the
turf with a sprained knee. When he
was carried off his one regret was
that he had but one knee to give to
his team. Kulas was put in, in his
place, and Mac Nelson substituted for
Kulas as guard.
Only one real sensational play was
made in the first quarter that was
Hub Jaynes 20 yard dash straight up
the field. He did not come out whole,
having sustained a bad knee.
In the first part of the second quar
ter, the Sidney boys earned the bail
to within a few yards of the goal
The third and fourth quarters were
exciting, every player working hard,
was
third quarter that "Ike"
Bruegger streaked up the field for
fifteen yards with one lonely Sidney
boy hanging to his waist and stream
ing out behind like the tails on a full
dress coat.
Again on- a trick play the Willis
tonites took their adversaries by
surprise and Scotty tore up the field
for twenty yards. Mr. Vettel acting
as line man took an active part in
the game for a second or two, when
he was struck by a spent bullet,
namely Rub Jaynes who had glanced
off a Sidney runner in his flight.
Altho the game was exciting
throughout the second half, it came
to a close standing the same as at
the end of the first half, 6 to 0 in
Sidney's favor.
The lineup as they squatted for the
signal:—
Walker—Center.
Levitt, Kulas, Nelson—Guards.
Boyd O. Bruegger—Tackles.
H. Bruegger Cormony—Ends.
Gordon—Quarter back.
a a a as a
ViaMra
Scott—Full back.
H' I
CITY AND COUNTRY GREET BRYAN
SOUTH SIDE PARK
SITE CONSIDERED
DELEGATION MAKES TOUR OF
INSPECTION—CIVIC CELE
BRATION ASSURED
Representatives of the Commercial
club, the Community center league
and the local papers made a tour of
investigation Tuesday over the ground
south of the river that is being con
sidered in connection with plans for
a park or game preserve. The party,
which consisted of ten people, spent
several hours in a survey of the land
between the Pontoon bridge and the
bluffs. The trip was made up onto
the bluffs over the Indian Hill road
and back by the Gasolene Hill road.
The view from the edge of the bluffs
afforded an accurate idea of the lay
of the ground..
Great Possibilities
At the bridge the party was join
ed by Mr. Calderwood of the Bridge
company and Capt. Bailey who owns
considerable ground immediately
south of the bridge. Various features
of the proposition were inquired into,
particularly the ownership of the dif
ferent tracts, the possibility of gain
ing title and the extent to which the
land is flooded in times of extreme
high water. The land now belongs to
two or three private owners beside
Capt. Bailey and to the state, which
holds a seetion of school land. About
1,000 acres are probably available.
The general opinion is that the land
offers great possibilities as a park
site and federal game preserve. At
a special meeting of the Commercial
club directors held Wednesday even
ing, the committee made its report
and tentative plans for taking up tlu1
work of making a park were infor
mally discussed. Nothing detinue
could be done, but there appears to
be enthusiastic sentiment in favor of
the enterprise. Captain Bailey ap
peared before the directors and made
certain conditional offers concerning
his land. While no action was taken
park plan should receive earnest con
sideration.
Will Celebrate "*J"!
The idea of holding a fitting cele
bration of the installation of the
White Way system and the many oth
er local improvements recently ac
quired were discussed by the direc
tors. Several plans were suggested,
but no definite action was taken ex
cept that it was decided to hold such
a celebration, the date of which will
probably be Oct. 14. The work ,of
preparation for the event will be
Gotham Strike Now
Looks Less Serious
New York, Sept. 27.—The "genera I
three concentrated line smashes the somewhat by the fact that thousand "Tell Me, fair ladies," Martha Cook
touchdown.1
ball went across for a
Sidney's kicker failed at goal ana the
ball was again put into play. The
Willistonites this time took the of
fensive, nothing seemed to be able to
stop them. They made drive after
drive until they were up to the shadow
of the goal. On the next play our
boys, went across the line with the
ball, but Nat Boyd, in the excitement
of the scuffle, fumbled the pigskin
and a Sidney man pounced upon it.
Then we wefit back to the middle of
the field with the ball in Sidney's
possession. It certainly hurt our
feelings but it was too late to do any
thing and the half came to an end
with Sidney in the lead.
Two Killed When
Auto Turns Over
A PIONEER PASSES
Chas. Shafer returned to his home
here today from a journey to Gilford,
Montana, where he was called last
week to the bedside of his only broth
er, Martin Shafer, who died a few
hours after his arrival.
Martin Shafer, like his brother
Charles of this, place, was one of
time it failed about a year ago. This
money will be paid over to the estate
in full.—Schafer Record.
Sheridan county, Montana, boosters
are propose to make Harvest Festi
val Tour by special train through the
middle states. It is expected that
200 citizens will make the trip.
strike of the labor unions in syin- Minneapolis Symphony orchestra.
pathy with the striking streetcar men, The music produced by this or
\lU™lSCit0ihl
effcfT toda&rj!rta«°ri8
can-
vassers reported at least 22 unions their appearance in Williston the club
failed to respond to the strike call. will render the following program:
The only report received at police 1.—Coronation March Meyerbeer
headquarters was that 250 members II.—Overture, "Poet and Peasant"
of the. painters union failed to repoi". F. B. Suppe
of Jewish workers will remain idle IV.—Second Movement from the
over Thursday and Friday in celebi n- Fifth Symphony... P. Tachaikowsky
tion of the beginning of the Jewish V.—Violin Solo "Souvenir de Mosco"
new yejfr.
Figures given out at a meeting Karl Scheurer
representatives of the labor unions, VI.—Waltz, "Valse Trieste"
showed union workers to the number Sibelius
of 125,000 went on a strike today in VII.—Malaguena M. Moszkowski
sympathy with the street car men.
While returning from Mondak to time-' ,.Luigi Arditti
their home in Alexander' Wednesday Martha Cook
afternoon Al Fallon, and Avery Bif- X.—Clarinet Obligato, Larghetto
fonette were almost instantly killed Mozart
when their car turned over. The ex- Pierre Pierrie
act cause of the accident could not be XI.—Hungarian Rhapsody No. 2....
learned. Both bodies will be sent to J- .V1,?2*'
the former homes in Minnesota. Fal- XII.—Waltz, Roses of the South
Ion was a brother of Post Master Fal- J- Strauss
Ion of Alexander. XIII.—March of the Bojars
the oldest pioneers of this state, h~v- mu' k,
ing came here and settled near Cas- published next week
to Montanf KkrfThe remainder of'the Syrian book
+£»rfioS'
Both Mr. Roberts and Miss Strick
land resided in Williston several years
and won high places in both business
and social circles. Mr. Roberts made
rapid advancement with the Williston
Grocery Company and just recently
went to Fargo to accept a position as
salesman with a similar concern.
Miss Strickland efficiently filled a
responsible position with the Wester
gaard-Blair Co., until a few days be
fore her marriage. Her many good
qualities and unusual personal per
sonal gained for a great number of
jfriends. The very best wishes of the
fCJi-aphic for happiness and prosperity
arc extended to the newlyweds.
Mr. and Mrs. Roberts after an ex
tended tour will be at home in Far
go after November 7.
Aid Will Serve Big
Harvest Home Dinner
Monday evening, October 2, the la
dies aid of the Methodist church will
serve a Harvest Home dinner at Odd
Fdlows hall—from 5:30 p. m. until
al! are served.
The tempting bill of fare will in
elude roast beef and pork, mashed
potatoes, gravy, creamed parsnips,'
rutabegas, pickles, steamed brown
broad, jelly, rolls, apple and pumpkin
pic, cheese, coffee—all for 50 cents a
plate.
ILHARMONIC ClUB
MUSICAL BODY OF 14 EXCEP
TIONALLY TALENTED PEO
PLE AT ARMORY OCT. 4
The
... ... ... harmonic Orchestral Club includes
it is believed by Williston in its itinerary. It will be
tju
taken up by committees and vigorous- ing and gifted singer whose reputa
ly pushed. tion is already established in the
northwest.
fourth annual tour of the Phil-
f|rs^ number of lyceum course,
the date is Oct. 4. This organization
is composed of members of one of
America's greatest symphony orches
tras. There are fourteen players in
the club and the instrumentation is
such as to afford a perfect ensemble
for the playing of all important works
of the greatest composers. Each
member of the organization is a solo
player and an artist.
A delightful feature of the even
ing's program will be the soprano
solos by Miss Martha Cook, a charm-
The orchestra is under ttoe able di-
rection of Karl Scheurer whose po
sition in the musical world is attest
ed by the fact that he was for many
seasons second concert master of the
Then came the real exhibition of foot- for work. Attempts to estimate the III.—Aria from "Figaro" criitic committee Geo. H. Moellring .•
ball. Our boys fought hard, but by number of strikers, is complicated W. A. Mozart. of JKay
LIBRARY BULLETIN
Bryan's famous oration "The Prince
of Peace" has been added to the li­
br^
^,s
we?Library
k-
The State Association will
meet in Williston the third week in
October and Miss Jeannette Drake
fund has been
Sri T. direction of Dr. David and the books
old. He had a considerable sum of .hHv f™- rircnlatinn
money the Casselton bank at th^::
Suteuitbneal
WILLISTON, WILLIAMS COUNTY, NORTH DAKOTA, THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1916. $1.50 PER YEAR IN ADVANCE
Strickland-Roberts
Marriage Announced
Announcements have been received
of the marriage of Miss Pearle Strick
land and Mulford James Roberts, at
the home of the bride's parents, Mr.
and Jlrs. James Strickland, at Grand
Forks, Tuesday September 26.
some11250,000 workersSresponded to c|assical as to be beyond the appre-1 ™^ber^wa^k^ „i,.~ .... ij 1.'^ _i _.y
the call, there is little evidence that ciation of the average audience as the
strike is in progress.- Private
following program will show. On
Wienieaswki
Intermission
VIII.—String Quartette
a—Variations from Kaiser Quar
tette Jos. Havden
b—Minuetto G. Bolzoni
IX.—Waltz Song "Love In Spring-
invested undeil t'he
0 eady tor a 0
STORE WILL BE CLOSED
Our patrons will please notice that
our store will be closed on Thursday
and Friday of this week with the ex
ception of Friday evening when the
store will again be open at 6:30
p. m.
Greengard Bros. Co.
heard William Jennings Bryan up
hold the virtues of Woodrow Wilson
and the democratic party at the arm
ory yesterday. Five hundred students
listened eagerly to a ten minute talk
by the Groat Commoner at the school
house, following his armory speech.
A day that offered as many sorto
of weather as the democratic admin
istration has run into was what thid
vicinity drew for its Bryan day, but
ths$ did not deter a gseat many peor,
pJe from coming long distances to
near the message of the Nebraska
orator.
Every available bit of standing
room was used and there were still
many on the outside. With a promise
of a special ten minute talk at the
high school, several hundred children
were persuaded to give their places
to adults. The attention of the great
assemblege was perfect and its ap
plause was frequent and generous.
Hildreth Speaks
Melvin Hildreth of Fargo address
ed the audience while it waited for
Mr. Bryan to arrive. Mr
ai}.d
After announcing that he would
give ten minutes of his time to the
Euilding,
Halvorsen
ublic school students at Central
the speaker began by say
ing he was on a seven weeks tour in-
the* time that belongs to other
cities. Almost as generous as the
men who are willing to have others
furnish the blood and money to pro-
tect their personal investments down
in Mexico."
Upholds Democracy
After a brief mention of the his
own long political career the former
secretary of state launced into a
clever and at times eloquent compari
son of democratic and republican rec
ords and a defense of the Wilson ad
ministration. The speech which was
,'•• •. zg
„, "T
MANY DEMOCRATS MEET
PEERLESS LEADER HERE
Raw Weather Does Not Stop Crowds—Armory
Packed Many Drawn From Country To Hear
The Clever Arguments of Former Secretary
-5,000 Saw Him, 2,5f 0 Heard Him--Address
es Students At High School—Williston Given
An Hour And a Half.
BRYAN EPIGRAMS
You can put a lot of people in a hall after it is full.
I believe that a thousand years from now Woodrow Wilson's
name and mine will be linked together as factors in the great
movement for universal peace.
Wilson is a friend of the people his legislation commences at
the bottom.
The democrat believes that society is built from the bottom
the aristocrat believes it is suspended from the top.
"History is a much more substantial basis upon which to make
a speech than prophecy or promises."
This government is not a one-man government. The president
must have co-operation.
International law seems to have been Written for the benefit
of nations at war and not for the benefit of nations at peace.
It is a great thing lo have a president take the side of the child.
Two thousand attentive people of the arguments may be judged by
the following:
Hildreth, I this nation out of war with Mexico
who is a leader among the younger and out of the European war. These
democracy, won the good opinion of. are the two issues that will be decided
his hearers, expressed in frequent ap- by your votes, and I am here to ad
plause, by, a fiuent, eloquent defense:, uress you and present the situation as
of the Wilson administration. I understand it that you may intelli-
After Mr. Hildreth finished the au- gently decide on which side of thes
which constantly grew in issues to cast your intelligent vote..
Bryan was an hour and 25 minutes Democratic representative to Con
I late. gross, for if by your vote you elect
I Met At Culbertson Wilson and then tic his hands by
A committee including Halvor Hal- lecting Republican senate or house,
1
vorson of Minot, Fred McLean of
w'l
not
b,ring
about the accom
1
Fargo, chairman of the state demo- phshment• of those things you aimed
Burke deserves the confidence
John Bruegger, John u.-~
Heffernan, Sr., Richard Peyton and P»st by making him your governor.
Geo. A. Gilmore of Williston went to
Culbertson to welcome their leader to
North Dakota. Melvin Hildreth of
Fargo, Geo. Bangs of Grand Forks
and Col. J. H. Bloom were among the
prominent state democrats who greet
ed the Commoner at Williston and
escorted him across the state.
Introduced By Bruegger
Former National Committeeman
John Bruegger introduced Mr. Bryan
in brief lemarks as the most prom
inent citizen ever to honor the city by
a visit.
Arriving at Williston at 1:45 the government before 1912, who would
famous expounder was greeted by the be put into control if^we repudiated
band and a great throng of people -.i
and escorted directly to the armory
where his arrival met a burst of ap
plause.
I eluding 20 states and wished to divide must have co-operation. The reac
1 his time and reach as many voters lionary republicans helped to make
as possible. "What time is it now", the republican name a stench in the
he asked, "Quarter past two," an-, nostrils of good citizens all over the
swered some from the crowded stage, land. And these are the same men
"How long can I stay here?" was the who are responsible for the nomina
next question "All night." was the tion of Mr. Hughes. Let me remind
quick reply from the audience. you that the men who nominated Mr.
After the laugh that met this sally Hughes refused to invite Mr. Roose
Mr. Bryan said: "You are generous velt to address the Republican
over an hour in lengtn was too lentrth-1 railroad for looking after their in
ly to be printed in full but the nature (Continued on page 8)
...^ -9*:
Excepts
"Durinj? the thirty-six years I have
been actively engaged in campaign
work, I have labored as earnestly in
behalf of others as I have in ray own
behalf. I come to you now with a
stronger argument in favor of Wood
row Wilson than I ever had in my own
behalf." Comparing promises and a
record oif performance, Mr. Bryan
said: "History is a much more sub
stantial basis upon which to make a
speech than prophecy or promises.''
"There are two issues that rise
above other issues as the main ques
tions in the present campaign. The
first is whether you will by your votes
continue in power those who have
been in control of the government
since 1912. The effect of your votes
will be to decide this issue one way
or the other. The second question is
whether the president should' be re
buked or commanded for having kept
"In order to understand whether
the country should be turned back
into the hands of that party in whose
control it was prior to 1912, there
are two things that are worth of
presentation.
"First, I would call your attention
to who they were who controlled the
this administration. Before this ad
ministration began Taft was presi
dent. Those who dominated his ad
ministration were the reactionary re
publicans. The administration was a
failure and more than half of the
voters who had helped make him
president in 1908 helped to retire him
into private life in 1912. It is not often
that a president is able to lose more
than half his friends in so short a
time. This government is not a one
man government. If the president is
achieve success while in office, he
VJ
vy ,4
*-J
con­
vention at Chicago although Mr.
Roosevelt had expressed his willing
ness to travel half way across the
continent to meet with them. Instead
they invited Mr. Cannon and- Mr.
Depew—and Cannon and Depew are
the two men, who, more than any
other two men, helped to make the
republican party odius. Mr. Cannon
is the man who gaye the name Can
nonism to republican legislation
methods. At the time Mr. Depew
was in the senate he received $50,000
year from the New York Central
*1-1"
