I
Valley City October
Hostess to Women
of the State Clubs
The twentieth annual meeting of
the North Dakota Federation of Wom
en's Clubs will be held in Valley City
Oct. 10 to 13. Mrs. J. B. Meyer, chair
man of the program committee, has
given out the following tentative pro
gram. It will be seen it has decided
ly a North Dakota aspect and much,
valuable information in regard to the
conditions of the state educationally,
industrially, historically, socially and
morally will be obtained from the ex
perts who speak upon the various
topics. The presence of Mrs. William
Jennings Bryan will add to the inter
est of the meeting. Mrs. Bryan is one
of the prominent club women of the
nation, as is also Mrs. Thos. G. Win
ter, of Minneapolis, chairman of the
literature and library department of
the General Federation. Mrs. Winter
•will also be one of the honored guests
of this meeting.
Tuesday Morning, Oct. 10.
8:30—Presentation of credentials.
9:30—Formal opening of convention.
Music. Invocation, Rev. C. E. Vermil
ya. Addresses of welcome: For the
city, Hon. I. J. Moe, mayor for the
Normal school, Pres. G. A. McFarland
for the Federated clubs, Mrs. Frank
White. Response, Mrs. A. A. Bruce,
Bismarck. Presentation of programs,
Mrs. Julius B. Meyer. President's
address, Miss Minnie Jean Nielson.
Business: Reading of minutes of
board meeting. Appointment of com
mittees. Report of credential com
mittee. Report of endowment fund
progress, Mrs. W. A. Mclntyre, Grand!
Forks. Report of chairman of trus-!
tees, Miss M. O. Movius, Lidgerwood.
Afternoon Session
1:00—Music. Program of the depart
ment of education, Miss Laura San
ders, chairman, presiding. Depart-]
ment report, Miss Sanderson, Bis
marck. The Rural School Nurse, Miss'
Beatrice Johnstone, county superin
tendent of Grand Forks county. The
Educational Survey of North Dakota,
Mrs. Lt W. Crawford, Sentinel Butte.
Progress of State Education in North
Dakota, G. A. McFarland, president
"State Normal. Education for Peace,
Miss Martha Fulton, superintendent
Wahpeton city schools. Kindergarten
Extension in North Dakota, Mrs.
Louise Guldin Simenson, Valley City.
3:30—Music. Program of Social and
Industrial Conditions Department,
Mrs. Arthur H. Peterson, chairman,
presiding. Department Report, Mrs.
Petersin, Mandan. A. Survey of Social
Conditions in North Dakota, J. W.j
Jackson of Williston, former president'
rstate board of control.
4:15—Informal reception in Congre
gational church parlors.
6:30—Department conference din
ners.
8:30—Endowment fund benefit con
cert, in Normal auditorium.
Wednesday, Oct. 11—Morning Session
9:00—Convention singing led by
Mrs. Craswell. Reading of minutes.
Report of officers: Vice President-at
large, Mrs. O. W. McCluskey, Carring
ton recording secretary, Mrs. Chas.
f. Rathman, Jamestown correspond
ing secretary, Mrs. J. E. Featherstone,
Valley City treasurer, Mrs. H. G.
Yick, Cavalier auditor, Mrs. W. B.
DeNault, Jamestown. Vice Presidents:
First district, Mrs. W. A. Mclntyre,
•Grand Forks Second district, Mrs. J.
W. Warren, Leeds Third district,
Mrs. T. N. Yeomans, Minot Fourth
district, Mrs. H. L. Bolley, Fargo
Fifth district, Mrs. S. N. Putnam, New
Rockford Sixth district, Mrs. J. W.
Bush, Oakes Seventh district, Mrs. L.
N. Cary, Mandan Eighth district, Mrs.
Fren L. Conklin, Mandan. Misic.
11:30 Reports of committees:
Badges,, Mrs. M. L. Engle', Lisbon
bureau of extension, Mrs. M. C. Bud-i
long, Bismarck press, Mrs. R. M. Pol-J
lock, Fargo finance, Mrs. H. G. Vick,
Cavalier State Nurses' association,
Miss Mabel Olson, Fargo, president
executive club, Mrs. Clark W. Kelley,
Devils Lake, president.
12:15—Informal ballot.
Afternoon Session
1:15—Music. Program of social and
industrial conditions, continued: Ju
venile Court Work in North Dakota,!
Miss Lillian G. Topping, Fargo, juve-(
nile court officer. Segregation of the,
Feeble Minded, Mrs. A. R. T. Wylie,
Grafton The Work of the Police Wom
an in North Dakota, Mrs. Pearl Blougli,
police officer, Grand Forks.
2:00—'Program of Conservation De
partment, Mrs. J. E. Hunter, chairman,
presiding. Department Report, Mrs.1
Hunter, Cando. Our Resourctes, Their,
Conservation, Frank L. McVey, presi-'
dent state university, Grand Forks.1
Address, Dr. J. G. LeMont, Dunseith.1
3:30—Program of the department of,
music, Mrs. S. A. Wilder, chairman,!
presiding. Report of the department,'
Mrs. Wilder, Jamestown.
4:30—Auto ride for visitors and dele
gates.
Evening. Session
8:00—Music, string quartet. Ad
dress, Personal Impressions of South
America, Mrs. Wm. Jennings Bryan.
Music, male quartet. Address, Immi
gration in Modern Literature, Mrs. T.
G. Winter.
Thursday, Oct. 12—Morning Session
9:00—Convention singing, led by
Mrs. S. A. Wilder, Jamestown. Read
ing of minutes. Business: Report of
election committee: Report of cre
dential committee. Reports of de
partment chairmen: Arts and Crafts,
Mrs. E. F. Chandler, Grand Forks
Civics, Mrs. Fred Rather, Perth Homp
Economics, Miss Nellie Farnsworth,
Valley City Literature and Library,
Miss Alice Paddock, Jamestown Pub
lic Health, Mrs. S. A. Zimmerman, Val
ley City. Music. Program of Legis
lation department, Mrs. Bodenstab,
chairman, presiding: Department re
port, Mrs. Bodenstab, Bismarck. The
Pure Food Laws of North Dakota, E.
F. Ladd, president state agricultural
college, Fargo. Informal Talks, Mrs.
Bryan and Mrs. Wrinter.
12:15—Formal Ballot.
Afternoon Session
1:15—Music. Program of Land
marks department, Mrs. C. B. Harris,
chairman, presiding: Department re
port, Mrs. Harris, Pembina Land
marks, Natural and Unnatural, Dr.
Gilmore, curator, Historical society,
Bismarck. Music. Report of club ex
tension, Mrs. J. H. Shepperd, Fargo.
"Needs and Achievements in My Coun
ty," subject of one minute talks by
the 52 county chairmen.
4:30—Report of Election committee.
Evening Session
6:30—Birthday Tea, celebration of
the twentieth birthday anniversary,
program in charge of Mrs. M. C. Bud
long, Bismarck. Report of historian,
Mrs. Budlong. Brief addresses by past
presidents of the Federation Mrs. W.
S. Lauder, Wahpeton Mrs. C. J. Lord,
Cando Mrs. H. S. Oliver, Lisbon
Mrs. Frank White, Valley City Mrs.
N. C. Young, Fargo.
Friday Morning, Oct. 13.
9:00—Convention singing. Business.
General Federation program in charge
of Miss Helen Bascom, Wimbledon,
State General Federation secretary.
Report of secretary, Miss Bascom
Report of Biennial by delegates
Music. Report of Resolutions commit
tee. Unfinished business. Presenta
tion of newly elected officers. Ad
journment.
Afternoon Session
1:30—Meeting of the board of di
rectors.
2:30—Meeting of the council.
3:00—Conference of vice presidents,
Mrs. O. W. McCluskey, presiding.
Will Show live Stock
on N. P. Branch Lines
The Northern Pacific railway com
pany, in co-operation with the exten
sion department of the North Dakota
Agricultural college and the North Da
kota Experiment station, will operate
a dairy and livestock special train on
the Stanton-Killdeer, Mott and Linton
branches, and a few points on the
main line west of Mandan may be in
cluded in the itinerary. This cam
paign will begin on Monday, Oct. 9,
and continue for about ten day?.
Professor Thomas Cooper, of the
North Dakota Experiment station will
be in charge of the lecture and dem
Onstration work and the Northern Pa
cific railway will be represented by
D. E. Willard, development agent.
Representative animals of both
dairy and beef types will be carried
on the train. Lectures and livestock
demonstrations will be given by spe
cialists at each place where meetings
are held. The animals will be unload
ed so as to afford an opportunity for
all to see them and study them, and
opportunity will be afforded for ask
ing questions and general discussion.
CHEMICAL ENGINE SAVED
MARION FROM BAD FIRE
Marion Sentinel: Prompt action by
the fire department saved the village
of Marion from another disasterous
fire recently, when a blaze in the Mari
on E'quity elevator was put out by the
use of the chemical engines.
Mr. Nelson, manager of the elevator,
discovered the fire and turned in the
alarm. The firemen responded at once,
but owing to the dense smoke in the
elevator it was some time before they
discovered the blaze. It was finally
located in the cupola of the second ele
vator and had a good start when dis
covered. A few hand extinguishers
and several buckets of water checked
the fire a little and soon the chemicals
were throwing a stream on the fire
which quickly subdued it. It was a
hard fire to fight as it would have
been almost impossible to carry
enough water up the stairs to success
fully fight it, and the hose on the
chemical engines were not long
enough to reach the blaze, so a garden
hose had to be attached to the chemi
cal in order to use it. There was a
strong southeast wind at the time and
the chances are that had the fire once
gotten beyond control several other
elevators and business places might
have been lost in the conflagration.
PULLS STRING AlND
NAIL HITS HIS EYE
R^y, Sept. 25.—Martin Johnson was
the victim of a painful accident while
setting a line for a chimney., He had
driven a nail in the wall of a chimney
tied a line to it and was at the other
end tightening the string, when the
nail pulled out and with great force
struck him in the right eye. Mr. John
son went to Williston Tuesday eve
ning to consult the doctors there in
regard to same.
A. Woodhall, of Gladstone, Mich.,
waB a visitor in Valley City Sunday.
Car Plunged 40 Feet
From Minot Viaduct
THE WEEKLY TIMES-RECORD
Burke Spoke Monday
Evening at Armory
Hon. John Burke appeared in Valley
City Monday evening to discuss the
political issues of the clay. The meet
ing was held in the Armory and was
preceded by a few selections from the
Valley City Municipal band.
The crowd was disappointing in re
gard to number, but Mr. Burke is an
entertaining speaker and those who at
tended report that he handled the
topics under discussion in his usual
forceful style and forensic ability.
Minot, Sept. 25.—A taxi driven by
Edward Livingstone, and carrying be
sides the driver Clarence Grant, dash
ed through the railing of the Great
Northern viaduct and dropped to the
track 41 feet below shortly after mid
night last night. Neither of the oc
cupants were seriously injured. Liv
ingstone, who is a chauffeur, accom
panied by Grant, had taken a woman
passenger to her home on the north
side and was returning to the city. He
was coming up th^ west approach on
the north side of the viaduct at tre
mendous speed. There was a heavy
rain falling and this probably obscur
ed the view and with the high speed,
prevented the driver from making the
short turn necessary to get on to the:
main portion of the viaduct. Instead'
of he a a in a re
ed, it went almost straight ahead and!
as he he a in re a in
the 2x8 boards as well as some of the!
flooring which projects for the support
of the railing posts, and fell to the
track. In its downward fall it struck
the branch cable of the telephone com
pany, tearing it to pieces and cutting!
off communication with a consider
able number of phones. It is prob
able that the car balanced on the
cable and toppled backward, striking
on the rear end. The front of the car
which is a complete wreck, is badly
broken and smashed, but this injury
was evidently received^when it plowed
through the railing. The rear end is
also smashed in, indicating that it
landed on that part when it struck
a O of as pi
ned beneath the wreckage, but was not
sufficiently injured to be taken to the
hospital.
AUTO CRASH INJURES WOMEN
Russell, Sept. 25.—Miss Eva Mothvig
had her shoulder broken, Miss Mabel
Albrecht had her leg broken, Reuben
Heading received a severe cut in the
leg, Miss Margaret Heading and Mrs.
S. Fuller received painful though not
dangerous bruises yesterday when the
car in which they were driving collid
ed with another car loaded with young
folks from Newberg at this place. The
injured parties are all of Kramer ex
cept Miss Mothvig, whose home is in
Wisconsin, and who is visiting friends
at Kramer. They were all in the same
car. The two women who escaped
broken bones are in such condition
that they cannot be moved from this
place at this time.
The accident happened near this
city. There are conflicting stories as
to how it happened, but a farmer who
was driving along the same road states
that the two cars were racing for quite
a distance when the one in front
skidded and turned across the road so
that the other one plunged into the
body, dashing the occupants about and
causing the injuries noted. The Kra-j
mer car was being driven by one of
the girls who was a member of the
party.
Fargo Girl Victim of
Week-Old Auto Spill
Fargo, Sept. 26— Margaret Agatha
Murray, aged 24, daughter of Mrs. J. P.
Murray, 307 Roberts street, passed
away at the family home at 6 o'clock
this morning, death resulting from an
internal hemorrhage, induced by be
ing thrown from an automobile on the
road south of Moorhead a week ago.
Blinding headlights of an approaching
car being responsible for the accident.
The girl's mother is at Sioux Falls,
D., visiting a daughter, having left
this city yesterday morning with an
other daughter. I
Following the accident, caused by,
the blinding headlights of an oncom-.
ing machine which resulted in D. D.I
Stohl, St. Paul traveling salesman, I
with the Karo Syrup Co., with whom
Miss Murray, Miss Hannah Murray and
Miss Alice McGrath, were riding, driv
ing too close to the ditch, the car
skidding, Miss Murray showed no evi
dence of having been injured, except
several minor bruises. Yesterday,
morning, however, she was taken with
a fainting spell, but by noon had ap
parently recovered. At 4 o'clock this
morning she suffered the second col-1
lapse and in two hours was dead.
VOL. XXXVI—NO. 22. (Official County Paper) VALLEY CITY, NORTH DAiKOTA, THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1916. (This Issue Twelve Pages) ESTABLISHED 1879
Miss Murray leaves two brothers,.,
John H. Murray and Jay Murray, bothj
of Fargo, and four sisters, Miss Hannah
Murray of Fargo, Mrs. Wm. Parks of
Sioux Falls, S. D., Mrs. C. J. Minet of
Deliah, Alberta, Can., and Mrs. A. O.
Johnson of Spokane, Wash.
Mrs. Johnson had been visiting here,
and with Mrs. Murray left yesterday
morning to visit Mrs. Parks, formerly
Miss Josephine Murray, at Sioux Falls.
Funeral arrangements have not been
made. J. E. Dougherty, of the Luger
parlors, is in charge.
Syndicate Purchases a
Mandan National Bank
Mandan, Sept. 25.—F. S. Graham
and Wm. Mass have sold their inter
ests in the Merchants National bank
of this city to a syndicate of bankers
who have banks at Ashley, Linton and
other places in this state.
Thomas S., C. Srr and Richard S.
Johnstone, of Ashley, represent the I
purchasers, among whom are included
stockholders in other banks controlled'
by the syndicate. Two of the parties
interested in the purchase will locate
here and make Mandan their home.
The amount of the consideration is
not given, but Messrs. Graham and
Maas held the controlling interest in
the bank, which is capitalized at $50,
000. Mr. Maas will retire from the
bank, but will probably continue his
residence here for several months at
least.
The new purchasers are expected
here tonight or tomorrow when thejv
will take over the active control. Mr.1
Royer, the cashier, will probably re
main with the bank.
Short Circuit at Rex
Creates Excitement
During an exciting picture at the
Rex Monday evening the carbon in
the projecting machine dropped down
causing a "short" and this started a
little fireworks not on the program.
There was really no danger to anyone,
but one of the faif members of the
audience fainted. Everything was
righted in a few minutes and the pro
gram was run off in regular style.
Fargo Wants No
High Buildings
Fargo, Sept. 26.—If the new building
ordinance, the first reading of which
was nearly completed at a special
meeting of the board of city commis
sioners this morning, is passed by the
city commission as it stands, no build
ing over six stories can be erected in
the city.
It is the claim of the commissioners
that a building over that height con
structed in the business district for
office purposes would cause the vaca
tion of a large number of the second
stories of the buildings now, occupied,
and that Fargo has not reached a stage
in its development where buildings
over six stories in height would be
desirable. When the city reaches a
stage where "sky-scrapers" are nec
essary, the ordinance can be amended
to meet the requirement.
The ordinance was first presented
with a five-story limit, but Commis
sioners R. B. Blakemore and J. .H.
Dahl believe that six stories would
not be too large, and would meet the
requirements for a number of years
to come. The other commissioners
believe that this would be satisfactory.
There are a few changes to be made
in the ordinance before it will be de
clared on its first reading. It is expec
ted that these matters will be taken
up at the earliest date possible in or
der to get the ordinance through on
its second reading and final passage
as soon as is consistent.
Warrant Says Railway
Selling Booze Illegally
Moorhead, Sept. 26.—The Northern
Pacific railway company is charged in
a warrant issued today from County
Attorney C. G. Dosland's office with
conducting an unlicensed drinking
place in Moorhead.
In a raid conducted this afternoon
by Chief Of Police P. E. Malvey and
Sheriff D. W. McDonald 43 cases of
beer were confiscated at the local N.
P. freight house and hauled to the
police station by dray.
The officials continued their search
for liquor until late in the afternoon.
All told, the raid netted 63 cases of
beer, 21 casks of beer and one cask of
whiskey.
MANAHAN MAY SPEAK
IN VALLEY CITY
Word has been received by the local
republican committee that James Man-1
ahan, of St. Paul, would be available
for an address here Friday, Sept. 29.
It is not yet known what action will
be taken in regard to having the offer
accepted.
Jamestown Gty Fathers
Create Park Commission
Jamestown, Sept. 26.—At a meeting
of the council last night an ordinance
read at the last meeting of the council
was re-read and accepted. This or
dinance provides for a park board or
commission of five members to be
elected from the city at large at the
next regular city election. This board
will have entire control of all public
parks in the city and will make their
own. levy, not to exceed $5,000.
Sample Menus Show
Co. Is Faring Well
People of Valley City who may have
imagined that the soldier boys down
in Texas didn't have enough to eat
will be interested in the following
daily menus handed the Times-Rec
ord by Mrs. Herb Weston. To the
average family they would sound
pretty good, and certainly do not in
dicate any lack of care for the inner
man.
Ereakfast—Cord meal, milk, sugar,
bread, butter, coffee, bacon, fried
potatoes.
Valley City Bowlers
Hold Initial Meeting
GREAT NORTHERN LAYS STEEL I
ON WILLIAMS COUNTY LINE
Williston, Sept. 25.—Steel laying has
been started on the Great Northern
extension in northern Williams coun-)
ty and the new road has been com
pleted about four miles west from
Wildrose, according to reports coming!
to Williston today. A big crew of
men is working on the steel and
there is every indication that the
promises of Great Northern officials
to have the work rushed as rapidly as
possible will be carried out.
Along the route of the new rail-!
road there is considerable discussion
of a rumor which has gained circula
tion to the effect that the new line
may be extended still further west,
possibly this fall or at latest next sum
mer. It is said that a new terminus1
for the road is contemplated on the,
Montana side of the state line.
BOY BURNED WHEN
TANK EXPLODES
Hoople, Sept. 25.—Lighting a match!
and dropping it into the gasoline tank
of an abandoned automobile, peering
through the feed pipe as he did so,'
Victor Johnson, aged eight, received
the full force of an explosion caused
by the accumulation of gas. The boy
will lose the sight of one eye, and the
side of his face is horribly burned.
Home Economics Club
Begins Work of Season
The Home Economics club held a
splendid meeting Monday evening at
the hospital home of Mrs. Sim Mason.
The roll call was responded to with
quotations from Foley, after which
Mrs. J. E. Featherstone gave a very in
teresting and instructive talk on what
the different clubs of the state have
done during the past year. Four new
members were admitted to the club,
Mrs. Oscar Aldahl, Mrs. Sam Mikkel
son, Mrs. Erskine McCulloch and Mrs.
Andrew Anfinson. After the meeting
the hostess served dainty refresh
ments.
The next meeting of the club will
not be held until Oct. 23, and will be
at the home of Mrs. C. E. Burgess.
DICKINSON METHODISTS WILL
ERECT MODERN BRICK CHURCH
Dickinson, Sept. 25.—The congrega
tion of St. Paul's Methodist church of,
this city, by suggestion of their pastor,'
Rev. Robert H. Craig have decided to
erect a modern brick church to cost
$15,000 on the location of the present
small wooden building used by that
body at the present time. The old,
structure will be sold and removed1
from the site. Plans for the new,
church building call for a thoroughly
modern building, constructed of brick'
and tile, along modern lines of archi
tecture with full basement and com-|
modious Sunday school quarters, heat
ing plant, ventilating system, and a
credit to the denomination and par
ticularly the local membership.
Dinner—Puree bean soup, prime
rib roast, mashed potatoes, bread, but-i
ter, sugar, pepper sauce, ice tea, rice'
pudding.
Supper—Cold roast beef, macaroni
and cheese, tomato sauce, fried pota
toes, butter, bread, ice tea.
Breakfast Fried potatoes, baked
hash, pan cakes, syrup, sugar, bread,'
coffee. I
Dinner—Weiners and sauerkraut,
boiled potatoes, peach pie, bread, but
ter, sugar, ice tea. I
Supper—Beef stew, fried potatoes,
baked yams, prune sauce, bread, but
ter, ice tea, spinach.
Breakfast—Bacon, pancakes, syrup,
oatmeal, milk, sugar, coffee.
Dinner—Roast beef, brown gravy,
boiled pork and beans, rice pudding,
milk, bread, butter, sugar, coffee.
Supper—Boiled pork and cabbage,
mashed potatoes, baked squash, stew
ed prunes, butter, bread, sugar, coffee.
Breakfast—Puffed rice, fried pota
toes, hash, baked squash, bread, but
ter, milk, coffee.
Dinner—Beef stew, boiled potatoes,
tomatoes, peach pie, bread, butter,
tea.
Supper—Roast beef, fried potatoes,
macaroni and cheese, bread, butter,
tea.
Breakfast—Sausage, fried potatoes,
syrup, bread, sugar, coffee.
Dinner—Roast beef with gravy, boil
ed potatoes, boiled cabbage, bread,
butter, rice pudding, sugar, coffee.
I Supper—Cold meats, fried potatoes,
stewed carrots with cream gravy,
bread, butter, sauce, sugar, ice tea.
The final preparations to start the
bowling season were made Monday
evening at an enthusiastic meeting of
the Valley City Bowling association.
Norman Burch was elected presi
dent to fill the vacancy caused by Dr.
Van Houten's resignation.
The league was cut down to eight
teams for the schedule to run until
the first of the year, the second sched
ule to start shortly after the new year.
Under this arrangement the teams
line up very strong, and some excep
tionally good bowling is expected. The
rules adopted last evening are very
strict and conform very closely to the
rules of the American Bowling con
gress and the I. B. A.
Tlie alleys are being tuned up and
those already in condition are in splen
did shape. An expert from the factory
has been here the past few days and
is doing the work personally. With
three more alleys to go in, making a
total of seven, Valley City is assured
of one of the finest bowling establish
ments in the state.
The practice season is now in full
swing, and some qf the boys are show
ing rare form for so early in the sea
son. The indications are that the
bowling fans of Valley City will see
some very fast work on the alleys this
season.
Don't forget the opening date of the
season, Oct. 3, at 9 o'clock in the eve
ning. At the present writing it is ex
pected that the Anderson Clothing Co.,
winners of last year's schedule, and
the People's Fuel Co. (last year's
Stacy team) winners of the city tourn
ament, will line up against each other
to start the season. Remember it
doesn't cost a cent we only want you
there, and you won't be disappointed if
you come.
Jamestown Man Lost
Life Boarding Train
Jamestown, Sept. 25.—James Flan
nigan, Jr., well-known insurance and
railroad man, suffered injuries to such
an extent when thrown under a west
bound freight at Bismarck about 11:30
o'clock Saturday night in attempting
to board the train that he died sever
al hours later—at 2:30 o'clock Sun
day morning—in a hospital in that
city. He never regained conscious
ness.
Bound for Mandan, Flannigan, who
was formerly a brakeman on the
Northern Pacific, attempted to grap
the caboose of the train as it passed
the station in Bismarck, according to
particulars brought to Jamestown. In
some manner he missed his footing
and was thrown under the wheels.
One leg was badly cmsiied, his head
had two bad contusions and his right
arm was broken in several places.
James Flannigan, Jr., spent his en
tire life in Jamestown. He was born
here November 7, 1892, attended the
grade and the high school and then
went to work on the Northern Pacific,
spending four years as brakeman on
the Dakota division, west of James
town. A year ago he went to Chad
ron, Neb., where he was night yard
master for a period of a year.
Returning to Jamesiown he spent
three months as a national organizer
for the Brotherhood of All Railway
Employes and was in its service at the
time of the accident.
CHARGED WITH SELLING BOOZE
Steele, Sept. 25.—Constable Fre
richs brought down from Tuttle, Tony
Schwemmer, arrested there on a
charge of bootlegging, which he has
been acc.used of pursuing for some
time, this being his second arrest. He
has been in jail since his arrival, but
State's Attorney Eastwold says he
will probably go before Judge Nuessle
in a few days and get his sentence
which will be indeterminate in the
state prison.
Hint Suggests Corn
and Alfalfa Exhibits
"Why not a state wide school corn
and alfalfa exhibit during Apprecia
tion Week this year" is the sugges
tion of Commissioner R. F. Flint, of
the state department of agriculture.
"If the teachers of the various schools
would set aside a special day during
that week to hold an exhibit of corn
and alfalfa and other products of their
district it would prove both interest
ing and valuable. Suitable exercises,
programs and discussions could be ar
ranged and the patrons invited to be
present at the judging. The best of
these samples could then be sent to
the various winter exhibits at Grand
Forks, Fargo, Valley City, Minot, Bis
marck, Devils Lake, Garrison and.
other places within the state. Corn
and alfalfa are valuable beyond esti
mation on the farms of North Dako
ta therefore such exhibits are of much
importance.
"But the immeasurably greater value
of helping place North Dakota before
the nation as a corn and alfalfa state
would come by sending exhibits thus
collected to the First National Corn
Show at St. Paul in December."
*2?^
