ID)'
TTFTp
f 1 m
TfT'O
UGi
VOLUMK XIV.
COOKEVILLE, TENNESSEE, THURSDAY. SEPTEMBER 28. 1916.
NDMBEB 39
NAM
v '
Mt. View Lodee. No. 179. I. O O IP
held a good meeting on Sept. 23rd,
HON. F. J. GARRETT TO SPEAK IN , A TRIP TO THE MOUNTAIN . TENNESSEE 8YNOD, CP. CHURCH WINSRIZES AT THE STATE FAIR FIELD DAY WILL SOON BE HERE
COOKEVILLE NEXT MONDAY, Whitson's Chapel school spent Fri ! j . - . . ,, ,.
OCTOBER 2 dT atteraoon on the mountain. We! Will Meet In Cookeville Oct 10 Ijohn W. Gillem Takes Ribbons in n'y Three Short Weeks Until The
. left the school grounds after dinner Large Attendance Expected I Many Poultry Contests I Popular School Event of the Year
J. TelLLeffnt' LWinl ISScSMtSV Annual meetin of TenneB' The fact that' John W. GiUem, of ' n Everybody is looking forward to
ZmTESFUl? tt6. NiD TlcU saw Mud ? Creek and the Shfk 8ee yoA of the Cumberland Presby this city, proprietor of Fairview Poul 3. whch nM designated as
will speak to .the. yoters of Putnam ?AwMu? Cr an Grea Smk- terian church will eon in Conk trv Tarda handle T,nrv nf th hM Field Day for the schools of Putnam
nTSrf8. 1 Cookeville to" ewh itawVttirst TiU and with its est grade and purest strains has agate untjr. Preparations are being made 1916. D. E. SlagleVN. G., presiding
Th .nL1 Kf??hM and thefe' too iTa lake wMc covers comln a lare delegation of minis jeen demonstrated. He won 31 prem an Erteet?S tot bi " a good attendance. The usual
maSh, n00?,8 Sbout telaSes- from t there we start ters delegates will come to our .urns with 36 entries, a record mighty a "lebra" that will make all rouUne business was disposed of.Bra
SAfhiJ8af1in khIS6 ed uo no and un the mountata unW Tne w continued un hard to beat, and this in competition chlldxeii of the county happy, be c. Bradford was reported some little
TtZZJEZZ? t T? t0 tbH hundrS18 on too where we could see a lara 111 and deluding Sunday. Oct 15. .with the best breeders in the country. " is one in which they can all better. Bro. J. H. York writes he la
of Democrats in this section. Mr. on top, wnere we could see a large. 'north and south Following is the take Bome Part. Cookeville will be in some resDecta a littu hotter nrT
Garrett is one of the leaders In con Pa of the Cumberland plateau and BAPTISTS IN SESSION record- "ng is the , tQ jessTpendeSSs JnS M LaaSd
gress. He Is a ranking member of from there we saw the town of Algood . crowda e attendlnj? the ses Barred Plymouth Rocks-3 4 cock- county her Friday. Oct 20. ; Martin Loftif w'ie reoortedfck!
the House Committee on Rules, and-" with the aid of a glass, we could BlonB f tne New Salem Baptist Asso i iWnSm? 1 3 pu?let: I The committee in charge of Field Sough not seriously Onetltion
as such, haa a great deal to do with men at work in the Algood spoke 'clation wnlch Delng he,d ln w' premiums 13 entries ' has formulated rules and listed for initiation waHJected peUUoner
ZSVZJZ'SZ SLMaSSatSK !! la.r.f! Lteht Brataas2, 3. 4 cock; 2. i.1-ts. county superinten The K2aV SocUUon of I. O.
r" rrTV,m:' ' v villa deoot: w i th Hh7 noli ""e5, "lJ !iB ST. 5 l cockerel; 1. 2. 3,4. 5 pull-"" "D 7a ixKiges. wm meet with Baxter
" -icmucui vvuhuo. nu Tory muca , " , gates amvea iiiesaay ana x uesaay iPf 2 3 4 npn
ln sympathy with 'the progress of he grain elevator;-we sa the key nlght and they M Beem to enjoy-Se.
Democracy In Tennessee. hole 'n tne clock face on the court ,lng the Cookeville brand of hospital! , Black Breast.
16 premiums. 18 en , fl0"8 contests. The meeting will be lodge on the 7th of Oct 1916.
Lrciu ai mo ian Kruunua. tne same an Tho r:mn r. r m tit
Black Breasted Red Game Bantams , ia8J,.year- . ' t convene in the Masonic Grand Lodge
.wud. .wuwmu vMtvih o &.uu. , - - - ... T j . Alio mcciiufi tiuoco luudj in uuic twlt 1 Z hpn 1 Till Ipt 1 npii h L vi wmmn.tcu id an nan in I aRrlTl IP llrf 18th at whlnh
speaker. He is one of the strong or eyes said that he saw a man with gray for the -delegates to leave on the af premium's k entries folIow8: time a good deal of imrtant busl
ators of congress. He will -speak ln bed and chewing tobacco sitting on ernoon trai,,6 premiums. sjrteB- I. The place of holding Field Day ness intfoduced at uu? erand
the interest of the Democratic ticket bench near the courthouse door BUSHNELL CRAIG WEDDING 18 the same as last year, f lodge sesston will be cons dererand
from top to bottom. We found some ammunition in the INFORMATION RELATIVE TO T J!. Zv I ft i Day will be held Ottober acted Tol i The trustees of th I o
, Conpessman Garrett will be able form of a green tomato potash and TEACHERS' EXAM! NATIONS j'jf&fi! OF. Home lifl Srin'e'laboU
rn moro nn v a raw htvaas i-toa n 'I'ati uuui ai uuc woo luiiuoucu a vo. vs. c is vhvw ui uauwo. vmu
i
nnlv a faw nrwutrhna
nessee. for he is ln demand by the number of rounds of loaded shells,
National committee. He Will take luea "ttr wttB ueuiareu anu me obiub
FOR THE COMING YEAR
to the popularity and prominence of
the bride's family, was that of Miss
RULES AND REGULATIONS nd very favorable report on its con
1. Only bona-flde students who dition, management -etc. The Dart
. , . . . . . . . " khuco "l 1 I 1 ... j i , Ji. 1U: , , -
nart in the Mmnaini in Kentucky of Quebec was fought. Wolfe and! 6l"e supermtenaeni nas sent Pearl Lambuth Craig and Mr. Roswell mi lwemy . yf ltiZs i10 ana ea"c,a"on
son. However "SS Nomina ScSoS Montcalm both fell and many others to tnte office the follow tog informa S. Bushnell. of DeLand. Florida, which , e eUglMetp enter any contest, department, promises a very flatter
-in- i . i v j.u. wrr wnnndnd. Th vinltnra wr regaru iw .eimumauuuB iur waH solemnized at the M. E. Church. ' " -"v' ouyyuricu '"s
W 1 1 m . an M I1H.1 1 I 1 H. I'l-IIlt'1 1 1 1 I ihiin iiih - ------ - w , a . ll -
Come out next meeting.
Democratic sneakers thfouehout the treaty and taKe tne oath or allegiance perrormea ny tne Driae s lamer, ev. " ,,y " ' " BB,D1U' Tur , .
UMDMcrauo Pe"eri Sneaker! will an Then we started westward on our govern themselves accordingly. R. j. Craig, pastor of this church. evnts of Fie d Day. PROGRAM OF THE ODD FELLOWS'
pear in more than BO counties mSS way home wih hearts delighted and r The examination will be given the Tne larPe crowd in attendance wm'v No pupil who was a winner to CONVENTION TO BE HELD AT
dlfafteSoon Every Democrat souls made glad. er part of December, the day is profoundiy impressed with the beauty .SJ?,"6" ( BAXTER. OCT. 7, 1916.
mJmber Congrelf Senate Lea F. N. BILLINGSLEY. Teacher. not yet fixed t i and eloquence of the ceremony.- .be euwe to enter the same event, J
and Shields tKomlnees i the elfct ' The examination in the elementary , The church, for the occasion, was tn's year. The following is the program for
fuiu uuiciuo, liic iiumiucoo, mo erect RiMftl IWft n A V Al MnRT UERPI Hliblprts will hft trivfin not In ETOimn -1.1 ii j J 4. 'rnere Will D no division as to tho T"P Cll la," aATTil annual nytn vhmIam a
" . v .. o wr HiaUUrHLBlV UCUUlttLCU 1T1LU M1U . v... e..u ku.a MUlUU WUTCUUUU UL
"T,V "c,"r "i. I as last year, but all at tne same ex idenrod Francis Cral. brother oros"16 n scnooi ror any event in tne the Putnam County Odd Fellows
wm speak ioZye?or the ticket Circus and Great Spectacle Oo amination, including the Reading Cir S pride.' rendered a beuS musithletic contests. Association, to beheld with BaxTer
wm speak Monday for the ticket Cupy Five Trains Crammed, cle. cai poeramme and Mrs Herbert Car. B- In literary events, only pupils Lodge No. 494, at Baxter, Tenn. on
ClJSS HmTtteTtatJ coSmlttee W"h Wnder' he applicant must make toe reauir g Sta h"iib!?TO the first eight grades will Satugrday nlgnt', Set. 7 .Tili I '
cnairman urn or the "State committee - "ed grades on all subjects. A part of -At Dawnine" Miss Virginia Aber eligible to enter. i. Devotional Exercises. Chaplain
when Conpssman Garrett waa sent The big event for which the young th,ubjects will not be counted, but natoy CrTig sister of the br de, was entries must be ln the hands A. N. Bowden ' v'nap)'am
here and the Democrats of this county sters and grownups have been impa an ucaat failing on one or more maid of honor J Craig Jr. of the secretary by October 10; oth- 2. Address of Welcome, G W
should come out in large crowds to tlenUy waiting is drawing near, for on 8ubjectJ-must take the whole course ? Orleans La a brother of the erw18 applicants wiU be debarred Nunally. '
greet Mr. Garrett Monday. October 2 Ringi ng Brothers. Jn. r New Orleans La. a ororner or tne enterlng Entrance8 muBt 3 R'e8pon, mn8on Judd
DORCAS SOCIETY S in nL'? ' afternoon and The high school examination will ere Hon! a K.ollada Mesers! made on blanks furnished by the Sec 4. Some Reniiniscence. of Half .
DORCAS SOCIETY nlgnt tn Nasnvuie. be given in groups as follows: Herbert Carlen R E Lee and Aus retarT and especially provided for Century's Activity In the Order. Grand
The Dorcas Society of the C. P. -Btpeetmcy Bever raa so nigh be Em?1,Bh( mathematics, history, lat rgm,t T of Cookevil'le Robert Row the purpose. Secretary J.-IL Harwell. uraer wana
church met with Mrs R. P. Morgan fore and it is Ukely that Hhis district , Blenoe home economics, and the d MdW R Craig Jr.? of Nash 1 The same pupU wffl not be el- 5. Why I LoveOdd Fellowship,
Sept 25. at the usual hour, with a will send a large delegation to .feed composite Group. Imp MendVlRRohn's wedd na march WMe tonter more than one contest Prof. T W KittreU.
JL00""1 tne adin the elephants Unusual Interest cen Tb Compo8ltS Group Is given for I1"6" S f for the entranc! of the either literary or athletic, except the " AddVe.J Subjiet: "Thoma. Wll .
the the 18th and 19th chapters of St ters around the gigantic spectacle, teachers In two year high schools and bridaiP'party which was led by the relay race- ' dey". Dr. W. S. McClaln.
Luke and prayer, the lesson was dia "Cinderella." with which the famous 1(J compoBed of spelling, grammar. ?hers PThY'brlde and maid of honor ' - An articles offered to exhibits f. What the Public Expects of an
cussed. Quite a good deal of busi showmen are this season opening rhetorl 0. algebra, general metTheTroom and best man at ?he ?nst be made by pupils of the school odd Fellow, B? L. Richardson. ' .
-as before the society owing to their main tent Profam. Cinder t ory and biology. met tne groom ana oesi ma at i between the date of opening of school 8. Odd Fellows' Homes and Or
the Tennessee Synod of the C. P. ella'is probably the best loved of all . ' 1M, .r4, mrttA ta tftkfi thlfl aitar. , 'and October 20. A violation of this t h
" . x kirz ayi iuc id cau uuuduouj i.i.a w v . . . , - w
. i ne toaae at work, jj. m.Hiagia.
10. History o' Odd Fellowship In
rci, that is to meet with us Oct. . fairy tales
' , d. i
10th, 1916.
more
bIph and tn hoa it nrnducpd with . v Tne Drlae is an unusually auraciive " " "
than WWO perLns hundreds of thi8 lamination, especially those and waB loveiy her traveling de0,aS
irSrl. i and Sous tV i whose certUcatea expire . on Juao 30 of mldnght blue cloth with hat :.
Exhibits are to be Judged on the
-We wish to give to the ladies of aU dancing grls and glorious pageants. iof next yeai You can not be em nonta ""flhe carried a bouquet "aals of quality. 60 per cent; variety. Putnam County, Dr. L. R. McClain.
i.be,CSbf.8 L0 m08t ?r ffw-i?8 Jf52f -t-Si.. JS5 Dlyed t0 teacn next year un,eM you of bride?s roses The maid of honor cent; and quantity, 20 per, n. The, Value of Odd Fellowship
dial invitation to be with us during , "childhood s golden to&iMn ome hold a certificate, and you can not T gowned to brown and I gold taffeta to Its Members and their Fm,ll.i.
w8.0 V J? ,ladle9 01 trUe ill S.lir.it a certificate in time to be employ wHh trtmmings of Osorgette crepe ! LITERARY CONTESTS , H. D. McCulley. -
Women's Board of Missions. come the marvelous circus numbers j woi. -n Tni n tv h .'tTs;.... uwigmw Q ... . . , DmmmM u j c
-.J ..fin pjirrM w aril raaeii. i wvwuimb. i ... j w. aim.
The society adjourned to meet at in which 400 men and .women per
the church Oct 9, at 2:30 p. m,. cEvrormers, scores of- trained animals
ery member urged to be present - and a galaxy of special features are
' - - . Introduced. The majority of the acts
ALGOOD CIRCUIT NOTES - are entirely new to America, the Ring
WAY8IDE NOTES
Flu. (
Immediately after the ceremony.Mr. inira, rourtn or nrin graaes.
Th ' Wivnidc hn now bfn ooen and Mrs. Bushnell left for a southern Written speUlng for pupils in
examinaUon. v Respectfully, i - nunhnMi la on of the most! 1. Oral spelling for pupils in first ternity, T. D. Verble.
J. M. HATFIELD, Co. Supt. , lpromment young business of DeLand. and second grades. '13. Address, Grand Master Root'
wruien spemng xor pupus in u. riuc. J
14. Keports or Delegates.
mm . ... . . . . m , a..- i-m i T'K. WbvdMa tn tvw hAATl AlUtA O TiCl M TU. HIlRnnpil IfiTT inr M. RDUinBra ""WW OITOUIUR IWl VUVUO V& VVUMIMHC
l'.-?""." ;rmthr rriJir.r: bridaTtripT W will beat home in dtth, seventh or eighth grades. 16. Selection of place for holding
01UUM7 luvimug, wvu a. nr ix uciou muj juiuvycwi uo,v - - . -m. v tiu flnt tim Arithmetic- - 1 tho next convention
"n-vJiu" :LJ,lKl"eXf" -. Mr.. Writing: Best llhltation of copy The following special committees
h. trud Now w wnnid ilk W. R. Craig, of Pulaski: Mrs. Carrie selected by County Supt) are appointed to work up the largest
Sunday, Oct 8. services will be at
Salem at 11 o'clock and Whitson's
Chapel at t o'clock, and at the Algood
ANNUAL REPORT
7. rs m x . .v .
Kooa AMsywif i yjvauif aiudvco uio I ' . . . . " in. m . T
Presbyterian church at night. The close of fiscal year ending Sept 15. an expression .rom our menus rrom -ww."" --
Presbyterian pastor, Rev.FountSmitb, 1916'
For grades one and two copy possible attendance from their re
will be absent and
preach to his place.
Rev. Cox will ;
SUNDAY SCHOOL CONVENTION
Program of the Sunday School con
ventlon to be held at Jackson Grove,
better known as Mill Creek, on Sat ,
nrday , before the second Sunday ln
October, which will be Oct. 7, 1916.
Devotional Services Revi G. W.
Foster.
Welcome Address Grover Rober
son,
Bal. County Fund... . ....$549.81
Bal. School Fund ,16,057.88
Bal. Special Fund.. 1424.52
Bal. Public Road Fund.... 613.44
Bal. Good Roads Fund.... 837.37
Bal. High School Fund.... 184.59
Bal. Polytechnic Fund .... 90.99
Total ....$19,658.60
Respectfully submitted,
S D. E. SLAGLE.
from Book 1. spective lodges.
7. J " C"c;u JJL X w . (jrf Naih! 2. For grade, three, four and flve, Mt. View Lodoe-W.
i. -nul. .hi-. nd nnmhAr of friends from copy from Book III. chairman, J. H. McCulley,
iT rlvr" .7" ww"" ;v:. S. For sixth, seventh and eighth J. M. Judd. and C. R.
i
Routes 1, 2, 3, 6 and 9 have been
represented this week.
HOW ABOUT YOUR POLL TAX?
O. Watson.
Clay Barr,
Countlss.
grades Copy Book Y. - I Baxter Lodge Dr. W. E. Sypert,
Declamatory Contest: chairman, Horace Maxwell, Rev. E.
1. Contest for boys and girls to W. Stone, J. A. Isbell and Isaac Med
im nbnEa -rn unrs im TPMKirft grades up to and Including fifth. ley. ,
The Pie Supper Friday night 1b to Are- vnn must uivb a ani 2. Contest for boys to sixth, sev AlOood Lodae J. F. Hampton, chair
be one of the good old fashioned kind. yX RECEIPT OF THE PREVIOUS entb or eighth grades.. man, W. B. Sacrey, R. L. Hamlet and
The free entertainment - before the YEAR ' - Contest for girls to sixth, sev T. D. Verble.
pies are sold Is to be given by old enth or eighth grades. 1 Martin's Creek Lodge G. W. Mar
time favorites Daisy Martin Clei UNDER A NEW LAW THAT POLL I Essay Contest For any pupil in low, chairman, B. F. McBroom, M. C.
borne.Mollie Shores Pedigo, Elisabeth TAX MUST BE PAID AT LEA8T 80 nrBt eight grades, one essay from a Billidgsley, Esquire Stout and John
Yearg&n, Alma Hinds, Mattalee w Berwnt ins citunvn. , BChool on a subject selected by pupil. ; McBroom, sr.
THI8 MEANS THAT YOU MUST The essay must be in the hands of the ' - Caney Fork Lodge Byron Bartlett,
cnairman, xamer jones, j. v. feaigo,
ATHLETIC EVENTS i "ay Maaaux and w. w. jared.
McKELLAR SPEAKS
.55r..?- 3: Barnes, Dr. ClaudeMarthv Blanchard
Response to Welcome J. M. Jack
, - , ii y. . on iwrun, vr. uunu ibwuii, ouuicuwu THIS MEANS THAT YOU MUST' A"B 'u""t m u
"S.w- niM. .. . wi . . - Cvl !fin - Dnke and Dolly Smith. Hot choco ray YOUR 1916 POLL TA)T BE secretary by Oct 10th
The Bible as a Text Book J. J. spoke to a good sised crowd to the . t d t m aaie while Z WiXZm, , 7T i Am4rii.Tr. w
Cranmunity Cooperation, J. N. Mc SJff Xn NOT VOTE IN NOVEMBER.
Clond. usa the nnterrifled. ' He sooke at t? Prosram wnetneyou ouy pies or .cr.ARn mnr nv tup
The Modern Sunday School -Miss Monterey at night . j ' ' ' DEMOCRATIC PARTY IN THE NA teen years and under.
Roupp. i .,, ii7"aVSc.dt ssm We have had several trees offered TION AND STATE ENTITLES U8
Duty of the Superintendent Rev. RALLSTiRJMTHuUocH jus. Now we want volunteers to cut NOMINEES TO YOUR VOTE.
rruua. cieur. i " 'V'- 1U' tnem UP into nreWOOa. ' nana os -rue rm inTuni rer " " ' . "
. i, - -a.. years ana unaer.
BARTLETT HOLMAN nnu r?l UJ? V?o
Miss Nancy Lou Holman and Mr. ! . ' STATE DEMOCRATIC COM
Jn I ; MASSMiiTTNGCALLED
t
How to Teach Beginners MissDay The Sunday scnooi ana cnoir ot tne
JNOOn KeceSBt rnu;uiau uiuivu
History of the Sunday School Hon. der a program at the eleven o'clock
E H Bovd. service Sunday morning, October 1,
qv.Kln. f PhllHront M " Wot entitled "The Light Of Life. Ever? I Thnniliv aftarnnnn ' Rant 21 at. I
hia msmher of the Snndav school and . na hnm. nt th hi-ido's imrio Mr - A mass convention of the Kepub
The Sundav School as a Moral and ohurch is urged tb be present, as the l. d. Bockman". the Rev. George Pen Ucan? of Putnam county is hereby And under.
sllgious Institution Hon. Thomas attendance contest will close on that nington officiating. called to meet in the courthouse ln g. potato raoe for girls, tourteen'
aay ana tne winner 01 we Eia . . xh bride is the attractive and ac 4,"u'? """' oolu'l", dovibiu years ana unaer. i potatoes. 5 yarns j
pin will be announced. complished young daughter of Mr. W. her 80, 1916, for the purpose of noml to first poUto and 3 yards between
xne pastor wiu preacn at y:uu p. m. : f, Holman, of Cookeville, .Route 4. -Uttuu tuulUi'"' iUt AJCKBi.ui otners.j
i 75 Sdaa.hforg1rSr
years and under. i.i t.-
. 50 yards dash for boys, fourteen t i
years ana unaer. ,iin mint mamhara nf ai int
4. 50 yards dash for girls, twelve i ij kvi v 1 i
. 1 . c uisi;n will .1 jvc: it lto ill nilDUU .
and under. rt. .v. m
K hm.4 4nmn W. l58 ""
ftiiV Va . eoot flTe delegates to this convention
' age. 1 hnvofpr ovorr mpntttAT nf tha Ardor
for boys, m the eounty. lg urgea to attend. .
Frntornally submitted,
" 6. Running high Jump
any age. .
7. Shoe race for boys, twelve year.
Religious
Ftoley.
Reports of other schools.
W. M. HENRY, Sec
Subscribe for the Herald NOW!
Visitors and strangers will receive ,xhe groom Is a popular young man,
t nearly welcome,
- to w aiifluct any , other business
Oct
Atscfcibiri Sale
COOKEVILLE
Residence Property
Monday
At the Courthouse Door
, One residence and acreage.
Two. vacant lots, bounded on east by Mrs. Hogan,
north tjy Jones, west by Harris, south by pikev.
. Residence bounded on north by pike, rust by D.W.
Dow, south by railroad, west by Farreland Goodpasture.
Residence contsins 6 rooms, with out buildings, and
about 13 acres of land., ' ,
. TERMS One-fourth, Cash; balance, one and two
year' time, with equal payments.
D. W. DOW, Cookeville
16
itii
and is one of the .county's most pro tnat y c0 before said conveni
gressive farmers, and is the only son V1, . -.
i of Mr, James Bartlett, of CookeviUe, i Al cnairman.
ROCK SPRINGS HONOR ROLL
First Grade Fred Anderson.
9. 440 yard race for boys.any age
10. Sack race for boys, fourteen
years and under.
11. Relay race for boys, any age,
five ln each team.
SCHOOL EXHIBITS
ERNEST H. BOYD. President, .
I. M. HUNTER, Secretary, .
D. E. ' SLAGLE, Treasurer, v s
A. N. BOWDEN. Chaplain,
Committee on Program. '
"notice""'
On the night of September 8th con
gress removed all stamp taxes on
deeds, notes, etc., therefore any of
these Instruments dated Sept, 9, 1916
will not have to be stamped. All In
1. Best exhibit from school taught sruments dated on or before Sept. S
must be stamped the same as If law
had not been repealed. Remember
Route 6.
Mr. and Mrs. Bartlett left just after
their marriage, on a brief bridal tour,
ana on reinrmng win reside ai me -" VT L. r..v- bv one .eacher
home of the groom's parents for V Best exhibit from school Uught
awnua v ( j Hol1,d -rnv Tnt by two or three teachers. ' . that all deeds executed since Dec. 1.
PUBLIC SPEAKING ! 'er Denny Be8t ehibit from school taught j 1914, up to Sept 9, 1916, requires the
Hon. Lon A. Scott of Hardin cou Fifth Grade-Shanks, McCaleb, Br by to Jj) seven teachers. o , Igovernment stamp, fet all deeds bo
ty. will speak at the following places nest Anderson. Lloyd Denny. Robert Bcboola mu8t conte8t tT11!? ilJ fvff; 1t
i. T,,t..m ...... .tn. ..mm m..n. inthnn. winoh.. . . ... Numbers. i have them, recorded as these tax
Mr Hnnt la Tor.iihl1.an vnrJ Revonth Rradn Dlmnlo Dennv Km The UOOKeVUlO VttJ BCnOOI
speaker and splendid young man. He ma Whittaker, Carlen West Evans.
The Cookeville City School will stamps will be taken up by the gov
farnlsh an exhibit but will not com- eminent soon, then there will be no
V UlLMMkCt A VIU Sia TIODl iaTAUD. . m,mWmwmm 4a sm T am IAanAn4ll1ltf
should have large audiences at each Eighth Grade-Ethel Anderson.Beu w n navt nare' s s staotov VV
M nnnv Ammin nnddiMtnn Continued on next page B. S. STANTON, Register.
Cookeville, Tuesday, Oct a, 1 p. m. , urady Hughes, Teacher.
Algood, Tuesday night
Brotherton, Wed, Oct 4, 1 p. m.
' Monterey, Wednesday night.
Bald HU1, Thursday, Oct S, 1 p. m.
Bussell
night.
WHY SUFFER 80 f
Why suffer1 from k bad back, from
School house, .Thursday "harp, shooting twinges, headaches,
dizziness and distressing urinary ills?
Bloomington. Friday. Oct. 6. 1 p. m. tefu? P?D!e recommend Doan's
Baxter, Friday night. i- luuowi.riu..". jou ana. tor
Buffalo Valley, SaL Oct., 7, 1 p. m. Btn ''m5ritT iVT -.'
J" T. A.' Roberson; farmer, R.F.D.No.
LOCKER LAW NO GOOD 1, Monterey, Tenn., says: My kidneys
The supreme court has declared the gave me a lot fsl trouble and I had
locker law passed by the legislature a dull ache in my back and shoulders,
of 1915 to be unconstitutional, r The I couldn't rest well and waa so lame
same opinion declares that clubs can and stiff mornings that 1 could hard
not be closed under, the nuisance act ct p round. The kidney secre
when they comply with that law as tions passed Irregularly and most of
to not selling liquor for profit. Clubs the time were profuse. Colds settled
with the locker system, if not others, on my -kidneys and I was bothered
may now-operate within certain re by rheumatic twinges. When I read
fitrlctlonsr Between the clubs, the about Doan's Kidney Pills. I used
bootleggers an d liquor dealers out of them and they gave me great relief."
i the state Tenneseans may yet secure Price 50c, at all dealers. Don't
the wherewithal to quench their thirst simply ask for a kidney remedy get
Doan 8 Kidney rrns tne same tnat
They wm.Mye.in insurance on your boose, for they
can't burn. And in addition they are permanent, weather
proof fine in arjpearance and inexpensive.
2 - For Sale bff .
Subscribe now and save money.
Herald will be 60c a year after Oct.
m?L SoBuSfe. NFT?Ur MUburnjW. M. 5MOOT, Cookeville, Tenn.
V
?'myWTOW -My:
1
t,
