VOL. XX -NO. 1C6.
J GERMANS TRY
VERDUN LINE
Delivered & Strong: Attack
Against French Posi
tions Last Night
WERE REPULSED
WITH BIG LOSSES
The Effort Was Directed Be
tween Thiaumont and
Fleury
While no new advance for infantry on
the Soiniue front were reported by Paris
to-day, a violent struggle ia being kept
tip without cessation by the artillery.
'JTie French have been thrusting out
forcefully east of Rancourt at tlie St.
Pierre Yaast wood, at which point und
at Roiuhavesne to the south they are
amost in 8 direct line north of Pennine,
against which a speedy development of
tlicir enveloping movement is now ex
pected. Meanwhile activity hit been re
Burned at Verdun.
The Russians have also resumed their
violent attacks on southern Volhyuia and
Galicia but the report indicate stubborn
defense by the Austro-German armies,
which are declared to be delaying the
Russian advance by repeatedly counter
attacking. The German rcichstag meets to-day
in ISerlin ind interest center upon the
speech of Dr. Von Bcthmann-Hollweg,
the imperial chancellor, particularly as
to what allusion he will make on the sub
ject of peace.
Paris, Sept. 28. A strong attack wa
made by the Germans Inst night on the
Verdun" front between Thiaumont and
Fleury. The war oflice announced to
day that the assault bad been repulsed
with heavy louses for the Germans. On
the, Somme front the French batteries
are actively bombarding German posi
tions. The official communication last night
said:
'Worth of the Somme, after violent,
artillery preparation, the enemy launched
a trong attack against our new posi
tions from Bouclmvesnes to south of the
Bois l'Abbe farm. In a brilliant counter
offensive our troops met the enemy
waves of assault, which were thrown
back in disorder. After inflicting heavy
losses on the Germans we captured 50
prisoners, including eix officers. We also
took eight machine guns.
"We appreciably extended our progress
to the east and southeast of Rancourt
and penetrated the St. Pierre Vaast
wood,
"On the remainder of the front there
was nothing of importance."
BRITISH ADVANCE;
BERLIN ADMITS IT
Made Gains at Various Point Between
Martinpuich and Gueudecourt, Says
London Statement.
London, Sept. 28. British troops last
night advanced at various points on the
Somme front between Martinpuich and
Gueudecourt, says to-day's British offi
cial statement.
Berlin, via London, Sept. 28. German
troops yesterday victoriously repulsed
Anglo-French forces on the greater part
of "the battle front between the Ancre
brook and the Somme river, says the offi-4-
cial statement to-day.
BULGARIANS FAILED
NEAR FLORINA
Made Two Attacks Last Night, But Were
Repulsed By French and Russians,
Says Paris Official State
ment. Paris, Sept. 28. Bulgarian forces
made two attacks last night near Fior
ina, on the western end of the Macedoni
an front. A repulse of these attacks by
the French and Russians is reported in
an official announcement to-day. No fur
ther attack on the Kaimakcaln heights
has been undertaken by the Bulgarians.
On the Struma front, near Janina, tie
British artillery is more active.
GERMAN HERO KILLED.
Lieut. Wintgens Was the Second Most
Famous Fighter.
Berlin, via London, Sept. 28. Lieuten
ant. Wintgens, who, next to Captain
Boelke, was Germany's most famous
lighting aviator, has been killed in an
engagement with entente allied aviators.
He was buried, according to his wish, on
the spot where he fell.
Lieutenant Wintgen, according to a
report received from Berlin September
18. had shot down his 14th entente aero
plane on the Somme front. In June last
Wintgens was awarded the Order of Mer
it for his aerial services.
CONSTANTINE SAID
TO BE YIELDING
King of Greece Reported To-day as
Ready to Cast His Lot with
Entente Allies.
Athens, Wednesday, via London,
Thursday. Sept, 23. The Associated
Prs is'in a posit'0" to atate positively
that King Otistantine decided this morn
ing to favor the immediate declaration
rf war on Bulgaria.
F.sporu that a general mobJiiation baa
THE
been ordered are premature. The deeis
ion nf the king to declare war agint
Ituigaria ha not yet len announced
:... ... .............. ... .1. .,.,!. rfllllMIII til
' puiiiicfv, iiHinriwu". -.-
:1k. worked .'lit. The king will proUbly
. ii II.. ...... a I... uiMMtltltr III
presiu H'rwiwinv in.- ,
the crown council tomorrow noon. Ex
citement evident every where today.
The people feel that their long period of
expectancy litis been brought to an end
and the prospect of r with the Bul
garian i apjMireiitly wilcoiue.
CALLEDBACKTO ATHENS.
Prince George of Greece Hai Been in
London Soma Time.
Jyondon. Sept. I'rince George of
Greece, brother of King Constantilie. who
ha been in J-ondnn for some time repre
senting the views of the Greek court,
t-day received a telegram from King
(VnmUntine, recalling hiiu to Athens.
BRITISH STEAMERS
HAVE BEEN SUNK
Swedish Barge Also Sent to the Bottom
Crews of Two Swedisn Steam
ships Are Landed.
London, Sept. 2. The 2,:00-ton
steamship Stathe and the l,tsK)ton
steamship Thclma have been sunk, as
has the Swedish barge Bcnguel, it was
reported to-day. A Christiania despatch
to Lloyd says the crews of the Swedish
steamships Knut Hilde and Dunia have
been landed.-
FRENCH PEOPLE EXULTED
Over the Fall of Comblcs and Thiepval
to the Allies.
Paris, Sept. 28. "It was not a village
the allies assaulted it. was a fortress,"
savs La Liberte's special correspondent
at' the front describing the taking of
Comblcs.
"When it was captured," the corre
spondent add, "it was acharnel house.
roni.im.,1 n( the rarrison of two
battalions fought furiously and every cor
ner of the town was the tneatrc ior mur
derous combats. Xo ground was yielded.
Every inch was conquered.
"The ruins of a church changed hands
three times during the 20 minutes it. took
the French and British after they had
closed a ring around the town to reduce
the last stronghold, the fall of which was
salnteil with enthmiatic cheering by the
trnnns. It was then impossible to take
two steps without encountering dead.
"In cellars and dugout (lean ami
lav mincrled bv the hundreds
and it is now certain that the allies did
not take a greater number of prisoners
tip ffsrrison was virtually anni
hilated in the assault and the previous
shellings. Many of the deaths seemed
to date back a few days.
"The jubilation of the soldiers over
this victory communicated itself to the
-;!1o,t twbind the lines, where for the
first time since the war began satisfac
tion over success took the form of cele
brations. Civilians feasted the troops,
organized impromptu concerts, sang the
national hymns ot tne auics ana ac
claimed the victory of Combles and
Thiepval."
STUFF REDOUBT TAKEN.
British Capture Position Northeast of
Thiepval.
London, Sept. 28. German trencheB on
a front of 2,000 yards north of Flers and
nman rAr.-,M northeast of Thieoval
were captured by the British to-day, ac
cording to an official communication is
sued shortly after muinignt. jne com
munication says:
"Excellent progress was made to-day
(Wednesday) on the battle front. North
of Flerg "our troops carried enemy
on a frnnf of 2.000 vards and
are now level with the east side of Eau
court l'Abbaye.
"There has been fierce fighting nortn
east of Thiepval in which our troops
.-mni a r,A Tinur bold an enemy work
known as the Stuff redoubt on the main
ridge 2,000 yards northeast of the vil
lage.
"More than 1,800 rifles, tour nammen-
nTAffara s nA TT BT1V thousand rounds of
ammunition were taken in Combles,
where our allies also made large captures
of material. '
"The prisoners taken in the last two
J. Akiinn nrinor flip total for the
udjd n'"'p
operations of the last fortification to 10,-
000.
"Two enemy aeroplanes and two kite
balloons were destroyed yesterday. Two
of our machines are missing."
KAISER IS COMING;
IT'S A SUBMARINE
A Ship Slightly Larger Than the
Deutschland is Reported to Be
Ready to Embark for the
United States.
London, Sept. 2S The Amsterdam cor-.-onnnnrif
rt h T'xchanie Telepraiih
ICBWlluciiu . ' r - r I
company says that travelers who have
arrived from isremen report, a muu on
,., nnr,imn'ial submarine to be ready
to sail within a month. This submarine,
to be known as the Kaiser, is said to be
slightly larger than the Deutschland.
CRIPPLED VILLA
LEADS ADVANCE
He is Reported to Be Heading Toward
Texas But His Band is in
Bad Condition.
Field headquarters, American expedi
tion in Merieo. Wednesday, via wireless
to Columbus. X. M., Thursday, Sept.
rnnnvn villa, witn t"o men. was at
. . . . ort . 1 . i
the &anta v.iara rancu miiea vmv
v.minuirm Sept. 22. for the immediate
purpose of capturing trains near Laguna.
and with tne inea 01 sinking nrnn mnn
inradino Texas in the vicinity of Fabens.
according to the latest and most detailed
report of the bnd:t leaders movements.
received to-nigM at neia neariquanm.
Villa himself is said to be unable to walk
without a crutch. The horses of the band
are in poor conditi-m and bis followers
are ta rg.
BARUE DAILY TIM.
IIAKIIK, VKKMOXT. THURSDAY. SKPTKMHKU 28, 1010.
RIOTING IS
MORE SERIOUS
Trouble Attending the New
York Street Car Strike
Is Growing
FOUR ARRESTS
MADE TO-DAY
Of
Men Alleged to Have
Been in an Outbreak
Last Night
New York, Sept. 28. One passenger
was injured when a Third avenue ele
vated 'train was showered with bricks
and bottles to-day. Other Third avenue
trains were also attacked hue the dam
age was limited to broken windows.
The police to-day arrested four men,
two of them striking street railway em
ployes, charged with responsibility for a
riot that took place last night following
the derailment of a Third avenue sur
face car at i'llth street.
Strikers and their sympathizers last
night, after hurling missiles at elevated
trains and surface cars, attacked the po
lice. The officers were compelled to draw
their revolvers before the crowd was dis
persed, and one policeman fired several
shots over the heads of the rioters. Sev
eral persons were hurt, but none seriously-
I-abnr leaders appeared to-day to have
met with small success in their efforts
to bring about their proposed general
strike to aid the striking traction em
ployes, which was to begin yesterday.
Despite the claims of the leaders that
the number of those who quit work
would number more than 12.".000, police
officials said to-dav that if a strike was
in progress there was little evidence of
it. "If there is a general strike in this
citv. we can't find it." said the secretary
to the police commissioner. Service on
the elevated and subway lines continued
normal to-day.
SMALL CONVENTION
OF REPUBLICANS
Chairman Hawley Scored Wilson Admin
istration for Inefficiency Platform
Demands Repeal of Prohibi
tion Act and Fair Trial
of Primary.
Burlington, Sent. 28. Less than 200
persons attended the state Republican
convention here to-day, called for the
purpose of adopting a platform. Ice
delegates, headed by Sherman's band,
marched from Hotel Vermont to the
Strong theatre, where the convention
was held.
It was much after the scheduled hour
when Stanley C. Wilson of Chelsea,
chairman of the state committee, called
the eathering to order. Dr. D. C. Haw
ley of Burlington was selected as chair
man and W. R. McFeeters of tnosburg
Falls as secretary. In accepting the po
sition as chairman Or. flawley scored tne
Wilson administration, declaring that it
had proved inefficient. Dr. Ifawiey had
a good word to say for the Progressives
far coming back into tne KepuDiican
party.
The platform, as prepared Dy tne com
mittee, spoke of agriculture as the chief
source of the material prosperity of the
state and strongly urged that efforts be
directed toward maintaining agriculture;
declared that good roads are essential;
spoke of the educational advantages of
the state and urged that rural schools
be restored bv the continuance and ex
tension of the present school system; fa
vored irreater publicity for the state in
dustrial development; condemned the
Perry prohibition act and demanded its
repeal; bespoke a fair trial of the pri
mary law; recommended an enlargement
and extension of the workmen's compen
sation act; asked for consolidation of
some of the state commissions for bet
ter efficiency and for more economy; and
declared that promises made should be
kept and pledged loyalty to all Repub
lican candidates.
George W. Wickersham, former attor
ney general of the I'nited States, was
scheduled to address the convention late
in the afternoon.
AMOUNT OF LOOT UNKNOWN.
Robbers Ransacked Cars After Stopping
Train Near Detroit.
Detroit, Mich., Sept. 28. Michigan
Central passenger train No. 14, known as
the New V ork-l hicago express, hound
from Chicago to Detroit, was held up by
robbers near Dearborn, 10 miles west of
here, last night.
After stopping the tram by disarrang
ing the block system, the men unhooked
the mail and baggage cars and drove
them down the track a distance of two
miles. Here they ransacked both cars,
and fled after extinguishing the fire in
the locomotive.
The amount of booty obtained is not
known.
FREIGHT CARS PILED UP.
Causing Tie-up at Poultney for Five
Hours.
roultney, Sept. 28. A freight wreck
on the siding at the Staeo paint plant
near this town tied up traffic on the
Whitehall branch of the Delaware and
Hudson railroad for about five hours laet
evening.
The accident happened about o'clock.
rn wr Vvintr witr-hpd bv the "slate
picker," a local freight. The siding is
built on a rather sharp grade and several
of the cars came together with great
force, one of them being demolished, and
four others thrown off their trucks in
such a manner a to blick the main line.
A wreck train was summoned from
Whitehall. X. and the track was
cleared about 11 o'clock.
The evening train into Rutland and
three freight trains were delayed at this
tUtKin for several hours.
KILLED BY RUNAWAYS.
George Perkins, SS, Dragged 40 Feet Near
St. Johnsbury.
St. .lohnsbury. Sept. g. Gcnrga Per
kins, fift, married, was fatally injure.!
yesterday when a air of horaes which
he was driving, ran away and dragged
him about 40 feet. It it thought that
uhecl passed over his head as he suffers,
multiple fracture of the skull. The ae
ei,lnt iMvurred at Arthur Vouna's farm
about three miles from here. Dr. V.
B. Fitch was railed and ordered ths
man's removal to Bright look hospital,
but he died in the ambulance before
he arrived there. He waa employed by
Henry Wilson. He leaves two sons and
two daughters and an aged mother. The
funeral will be held Friday at Walden,
his former home.
Mr Perkins was employed on the farm
at lioss Hollow, owned by H. K. Wilson
of St. Johnsbury , n wne employ ne
had leen for the pat five years as man
ager of the farm. Mr. Perkins had leen
at the Tower brother farm at M. .loiins
bury Center just previous to the accident.
ll Mr. Tower had been talking
about some grain which was to be cut
that afternoon with tne loner reaper, n
waa while going after a separator for
Mr. Tower, to save time, that the acci
dent happened. Mr. Perkins hitched his
i,,.r.. int the Tower wairon to make
the trip. Notice was taken at the same
time that the pole whs too snort, out
,t ii,,,mrM unfit to use It. After (ret
ting the separator from Arthur Young
and while driving from the dooryarU, it
lit. that the pole fallins (o the
ground caused the horses to jump. Ex
actly how he received Mie Ifctai injury is
not known.
Arthur Vnnntr was en the scene soon
after the horses started to run, but did
not see the beginning of the accident. Dr.
Fitch, who was called, rendered tempo-
rary assistance.
A family of four children survive, a
wo linvs of 11 and If
e - - .. . .
years, who made their nome at ine
farm. A younger child is staying with
grandparents in Waidea.
Before coming to t. .lonnsnury nve
years ago, Mr. Parker lived in vaiacn
and Cabot. He was 53 years of age.
ONE MAN TO HANDLE MILK
Of All the Members of the Vermont
Dairyman's Association.
Bellows Falls, Sept. 28. One of the
largest meetings of milk producers ever
held in this section of the tttatn met
here yesterday to discuss the milk sit
uation. Between 60 and 73 producers
were present in the meeting in the Ho
tel Windham. The meeting was strict
ly confined to producers and efforts of
two representatives of Boston milk con
cerns to enter were unsuccessful. Tress
representatives were also barred.
After the meeting Frank Northrop of
Ludlow said tliat beginning October 1,
all the milk produced by the members
of the Vermont Dairymen's association
would be so W through him, as the or
ganization 'a representative. The organ
ization of the association has not been
completed but it will have branches in
every section of each of the New Eng
land states and will work m co-operation
with the New England Milk Producers'
association. Mr. Northrop did not know
how much the local producers would re
ceive for their milk after October 1, but
he said that he would demand at least
50 cents for an eight and a half quart
can, delivered on the platform at Bos
ton. This means that the members of
the association, doing business through
him, will my for their own shipments
and the nearer Boston thev are the more
money they will receive. He estimated
that producers loading milk nt Bellows
Falls would receive, at the rate ot ou
cents a can, five cents and a fraction for
each quart of milk.
BAPTISTS ELECT OFFICERS.
Supt. J. N. Barsa of Vergennes Was
Chosen President.
Chester, Sept. 28. The closing session
of the Vermont Baptist state convention
was held last evening. Yesterdays bus
iness included the election of officers, the
following being chosen for the ensuing
year:
President, J. N. Barss of Vergennes;
vice-president, A. J. Crane of Burlington;
secretary, Rev. F. S. Tolman of St.
Johnsbury; trustees, C. A. Day of Caven
dish, Rev. Henry Crooker of Chester, Dr.
II. D. Holton of Brattleboro, C. H. Hen
derson of St. Johnsbury, T. S. Dicker-
man of Bristol, Rev. J. S. Brown of
Manchester and Rc W. G. Towart of
Bennington.
Although some of the delegates left
for their homes there were good sized
audiences at both afternoon and even
ing sessions which -were fully as inter
esting as any part of the convention. In
the afternoon J. X. Barss of Vergennes,
superintendent of the state industrial
school, spoke on the "Vermont Baptist
Convention and Hs Work," and Mrs.
George Coleman of Boston gave an inter
esting address on "The Time, the Test
and the Triumph." A vocal solo by Mrs.
L. A. Carpenter and a violin solo by Mrs.
G. A. Tuttlc were well received.
MAY BE VERMONT MAN.
Dismembered Body Found Last Night in
Greenfield, Mass.
Greenfield. Mass.. Sept. 28. The dis
membered body of an unidentified man
was found on the eastbound track near
the Greenfield railroad station about 9
o'clock last night.
in his iwxkets were found an unmailed
postcard addressed to Carroll Tolin, 2
Brown street. Bellows Falls. Vt.. and a
tin of naner with the nair.e .1. Murray,
care of Mrs. Bigelow, 35 Barker street,
Bellows Falls, t.
The man was well dressed.- He was
apparently 25.
Bellows Kalis ponce nave own commu
nicated with.
ALFALFA WEEVIL IN VERMONT.
Has Been Discovered on Farm of Wright
Fay of Jericho.
Burlington. Sept. 2 J. W. Dana.
county agricultural aseni. na i-ih
the alfalfa weevil on the farm of Wright
Fav of Jericho. This I tr first tune
the weevil has been di-overed rat of
Indiana, and as there are S.oiiri a.-res .f
alfalfa in Yermont it i feared that the
jet will extend its operation.
SUSPECT CASE
ATNO.DUXBURY
Young Man, 111 for a Week,
May Have Infantile
Paralysis
ALL PRECAUTIONS
HAVE BEEN TAKEN
School Closed and the House
Placed Under Quar
antine Waterbury, Sept. 28. There is a sus
pected case of Infantile paralysis at
North Duxbury, the patient being Wil
liam Young, the 17-year-old son of Mr.
and Mrs. Je-;e Young. The young man
has been ill for a week but it was not
until a day or so ago that suspicions were
aroused, trouble having developed in one
knee. Dr. H. A. Ladd of the state labora
tory in Burlington was there yesterday
in consultation with Dr. F. E. Steele, jr.,
but he was not prepared to say that it
was a case of infantile paralysis.
Nevertheless Health Oflieer A. H.
Graves is taking all precautions, having
quarantined the Young house and having
closed the school there for a week at
least. The young man worked in the
Elliott box shop.
TWO CASES FOUND
AT ST. JOHNSBURY
Gravlin Children Probably Caught Dis-
sease Wnile Visiting in Elmore
Recently.
St. Jolinsburv. Sent. 28. A youna boy
and young girl, children of Fred Gravlin,
who resides in tne lieiknap mock on
Railroad street, are thought to be 'suf
fering from infantile paralysis. The boy
showed symptoms of the disease on Tues
day and" the following day his lower
limbs became paralyzed. The girl has
shown similar symptoms although there
is no paralysis as yet. The children are
not old enough to attend school. The
place has been quarantined.
The. children were probably exposed
when they were in Elmore ten days ago
visiting Mr. Gravlin's brother who lives
next door to the house where a case of
infantilis mtralvsis has developed within
the last fcen days. It is thought the chil
dren of the two houses may nave piayeu
together.
BLIND HORSE TOOK
SECOND MONEY
AT NORTHFIELD
After Winning First Two Heats in 2:22
Class Jessie Reaper Had to Give
Way to GUreaper.
Northfleld, Sept. 28. This was the
closing day of Dog River Valley fair, the
chief event of interest being tne two
horse races, the 2:26 chws and the 2:12
trotting classes.
The races yesterday afternoon were
good, the track being in fine condition.
J. E. Plunkett of Northfleld was starter,
and he handled the races in fine shape.
One of the notable performances was the
winning of second money in the 2:22
trot by Jessie Reaper, a blind horse, en
tered "by Chandler of Winooski. Jessie
Reaper took the first two heats and then
had to give way to Gilreaper. The sum
mary of the races was as follows:
2:40 Pace; 2:36 Trot.
Jennie R., bin (Smith, White River
Junction) 1 1 1
Ruben, bg (McLeod, Barrel 2 2 3
Yaleander, bs (Waterman, South
Royalton) 332
Daisy G blkm (Hanley, Essex
Junction) 4 4 4
Time 2:29, 2:32, 2:28',.
:22 Trot; 2:26 Pace.
Gilreaper, bs (Gilbert, Essex Junc
tion) 2 2 111
Jessie Reaper (Chandler, Wi
nooski! 1 I -
Connie Deen, rhm (McLeod,
Barrel 4 3 3 dr
Lena W., bm (Mears. Mont-
pelier) 3 4 4 dr
Time-2:27'4, 2:25i, 2:24Vi, 2:25,
2:30',.
IMPRISONED FOR NON-SUPPORT.
Rutland Man Who Eloped with 18-Year-
Old Girl.
Rutland, Sept. 28. Frank A. Turner
of this city, aged 35 syears, who was
luielt here from St. Albans bv
Deputy Sheriffs D. A. Barker and Allen
A. Ieonard of Wallingford. having eloped
to the northern Yermont city with Miss
Ruth Coolidge of North Clarendon, age
ia .... Kifirp City Judire F. G. Swin-
vninitiiT. beine sentenced to the
1 - C .....inn fnr Tl i it Inc. than 1 8 .
UUIr l vmi:h"" - " - '
months or more than two years for non
support of his wife and child. The girl i
wa
s placed on pronation ana permuieo ;
to
p nome. s aihtupt . .
iin ttnirrl to nrove a more seri-
Pou
ous
charge against lurner, dui evidence
la-lr inar.
was
Ji
...!rr Kuinnrtnn nt .Tospnh Jewell
of Wallingford to the house of correction
for not less than six nor more than 12
months for furnishing liquor illegally.
CLOSED HOTEL BURNED.
Tanner'a Place at Fortune's Rock De-
troyed. !
BidJefe-rd. Me, Sept, 28. Tanner s ho- !
t 1 at Fortune' Rock, which was cloed
t..r , K viwii thrc weeks ro. le- i
Utroyed by fire to-day. The loss is $30,- j
J
"BILL" HURRY KILLED.
ON WAR FRONT
Well Known Barre Young Man Was
with 7tn Canadian Grenadiers and
lie Fell on September 17, Says
Message to His Father.
William Hurry, formerly a well known
Harre blaekkiuitli and for eeral year
prominent (orally as a singer and am
atuer m tor, died in action while fighting
for King George "somewhere in France"
Sept. 17. First newt uf tlin young man's
demixe came in a telegram from Otta
wa, Ont., received Ut night by the d
dier'a father, William Hurry of 17 Wash
ington street. The nieage read; "Deep
ly regret t inform you that cable re
reived today state that 177,U, Pri
vate William Hurry, infantry, oilicially
reHirted missing and Ix-lievcd to have
leen killed in action Sept. 17. "The tele
gram eainn from the military bureau in
charge of recruiting at the Canadian cap
ital. Parents of Hurry are awaiting ad
ditional details from the Montrral Mar,
which has performed a worthy service
since the war began in securing infor
mation for parents and friends of Amer
ican and Canadian boys who are fighting
overseas.
Tidings of young Hurry's demise fol
low rlosely on the receipt of information
that one of his close comrades-in-arms,
George Thompson, another Bane boy,
lies seriously wounded in a base hospital
Hurry and Thompson enlisted at the
same time and belonged to the same
company in the K7th Canadian Grena
diers. Private Hurry was attached to
a bombing platon and in frequent let
ters home he occasionally referred to
the unusual danger attending service in
that division.
Hurry was one of several Barre boys
who enlisted in the 87th regiment in
Montreal, P. Q., in the lute winter of
1915. Others who left Barre at the
same time are Private Thompson, George
Stewart, formerly employed as a baker
at Holmes' bakery, and Lackey Stewart.
The young men left the city in Febru
ary and were soon enrolled as recruits.
For some time thereafter the regiment
was in training at the barracks in St.
Johns. Before the contingent sailed from
Montreal for England late in 1!M5, Pri
vate Hurry passed a day at home here
and bade farewell to many friends. The
87th was stationed in England for a
few months and during the extended
training period, young Hurry visited
some of the scenes of his boyhood in
and around Aberdeen, Scot. His letters
to members of the family here contained
graphic accounts of his sightseeing, al
though later, when the contingent crossed
the channel and landed on French soil
about six months ago, official restrictions
necessarily made his communications
shorter. The elder Hurry was in com
munication with his son and received a
letter from him a short time ago. Fre
quently he sent the young man tobacco
and other articles deemed luxuries in
the trenches and the gifts were invar
iably acknowledged. Private Hurry saw
active service in Belgium before his reg
iment was ordered into France for ac
tion. The deceased was born In Aberdeen,
Scotland, 25 years ago, but passed most
of his life in Barre. While employed
here his services as a singer were often
in, demand and latterly he gained a con
siderable local reputation as a comedian.
Besides his parents, he is survived by
two sisters, Misses Iuise and Agnes
Hurrv, and two brothers, Albert Hurry
of Jackson, Mich., and Alex. Hurry of
Barre.
KILLED IN ACTION.
Walter I. Holden Had Been in Army
Service Two Year.
Enosburg Falls, Sept. 28. Walter I.
Holden, whose home is in Pigeon Hill,
St. Armand, just across the Canadian
border, was killed in action while fight
ing with a Canadian regiment in Fiance
a few days ago, according to a message
received by his parents, Mr. and Mrs.
Edgar Holden. The young man had been
in the service nearly two years, having
unlisted soon after the war broke out.
He was attached to the machine gun
section of the 8th infantry brigade of
the 5th Canadian battalion.
SUSTAINED LEG FRACTURE.
George H. Wilder, Music Teacher, Injured
While in Barre.
George H. Wilder of the Wilder School
of Music in Burlington is at the Rarre
City hospital receiving treatment for a
compound fracture ot tiie leu leg. wnnu
he sustained yesterday afternoon. Both
the tibia and fibula bones were broken a
few inches above the ankle. Although
the patient passed a restless night, his
condition to-day was reported to be more
comfortable. He will probably be con
fined to the hospital several weeks.
It is said that Mr. Wilder was taken
ill on Merchant street in the afternoon
and was removed to Hotel Buzzell m
Pearl street. After a restful sleep he
arose from the bed to dress, when ho
slipped on a rug and fell to the floor.
V '. I." ., n.u.1 . that the mu-!
i I lmro ri i. i m uv t - .
"
sician had sustained a serious injury and
when Dr. O G. j
was found that a leg trait lire hail re
suited from the fall Prof, i , ler was
removed to the hospital, wiere the ,r,
ture was reduced. . .
Trot. v liner nas a "ii- "T"1"1""1 i
Yermont a teacher ot voice, nine anu
pianoforte. Recently he established a
branch of his Burlington school in BarTe
and had planned to lie with his pupils
here on Tuesdays and Wednesdays. At
her home in Burlington hist evening Mrs.
Wilder was advised by telephone of her
husband's mi-fortune. She plans to come
to Barre to-morrow to lie with Mr. Wil
der. VERMONT BUSINESS TROUBLES. 1
... , fnrt of SCVi.iiHi dixided into 600 shares.
H. S. Bernstein ef Newport and Eva -j!k.; u,rs arp yA G. Canton.
bar of Waterbury File. M M Riley, J. A. Healey, all of Barre.
Rutland Sent 2 -Two petition- in i Articles were a!o filed by the Yer
banknintcv were filed w ith the clerk of f mont Maple Syrup Co.. Inc of Essex
e i n ted State- court. F. S. Piatt, yes-1 .Miction. w,.H capital
terd.v. Herman S. Iterrstein of New-(.Hares. The M.harr.her. are Arthur A.
r.rt has liabilities of ....l and Been,., of K-sex J-AWW".
of fl22Wl7 of wh-h .tl' i- rl..Sme..R,nwn of ra.rfax. Ileteher V -lohaara
emt. F a RoW of Waterbury M . -1 l:Wot.mr. O - and A. M. IVvoe of
libil ti- ..f .-.7!..7l and -t. of e-'..o;rre.,.ntsine and A. B. RugJ of Ls
t-f whKh is claimed exempt.
vmcE, oxi: cent.
NO EVIDENCE
BY DEFENDANT
In $20,000 Suit of Charles
Barclay vs. Wf "ore &
Morse Gra -. Co.
PLAINTIFF JURED
BY A EXPLOSION
Case Was Given to the Jury
Late This After
noon The rase of Charles Barclay vs. WcN
more Morse Granite Co., in which the
plaintiff, an experienced quarryman, asks
damages of $20,000 as the result of in
juries sustained a yeaf ago last May
while employed in the defendant's quar
ry at Graniteville, went to the jury lato
this forenoon in Washington county
court.
The suit was commenced yesterday '
afternoon and progressed rapidly, the de
fendant not placing a witness on tlm
stand, being content with examining thn
plaintiff and his witnesses. The plaintiff
contended that the company, through
its foreman, Mr. Lance, was negligent in
ordering him to prepare a second blast
to dislodge a stone in the quarry, and as
a result of obeying the foreman's orders
an explosion of powder occurred, result
ing in his being made almost totally
blind, his hearing affected, his right arm
injured, and his nerves shattered so that
he has not yet recovered.
It seems that Barclay was instructed
to prepare a second blast after the first
one had failed to satisfy the foreman
that the granite block had been suffi
ciently loosened, and that the stone
slipped while Barclay was preparing the
second blast and inflicted the injuries
described almve. It was the contention
of the plaintiff that Foreman Lance
proved himself incompetent and negli
gent in issuing an order before investi
gating to ascertain the condition of the.
stone. It is believed the stone slipped
and caused the premature explosion.
Attorney John Gordon for the plaintiff
made a brilliant and forceful argument
this forenoon, calling attention to the
age of the plaintiff, 5(5 years at the time
of the accident, the good health he had
enjoyed until that time, and his earning
capacity, between eight and nine hun
dred dollars a year.
He asked the jury to measure tho
amount of damages by considering the
earning capacity of the plaintiff in his
normal condition and his present plight,
and the suffering he had undergone, and
urged the jurors to allow sound judg
ment and sense of justice to guide them,
rather than sympathy.
DRAWING SCHOOL CHANGES.
Announcement is Made Concerning
Teaching Force.
Barre's evening drawing school in the
Mathcwson building will open its doors
for the enrollment of students in the
1916-1917 term Saturday, Sept. 30 ami
Monday, Oct. 2. Regular sessions in thn
several departments will begin on the
evening of Tuesday, Oct. 3.
Although the curriculum will remain
much the same, there are a number of
changes in the faculty this year. The
vacancy caused by the departure of Alex.
Youngson, who has removed to New
York, will be filled by William A. Mur
ray, manager of the Harrison Granite
Co., who will have charge of the ad
vanced draughting department.- William
Duff, a well known art teacher in Barre,
succeeds Robert Knox, who became head
draughtsman at the Jones Bros. Co.'
ni,it,f when Mr. Youngson left the city
ijciiarlca Pamperl, the principal, and Carlo
Abate, the sculptor, retain their places
on the faculty.
This year the school intends to grant
special certificates to students who suc
cessfully complete a course and pass the
required examination. Courses are giv
en in geometrical drawing, descriptive
geometry, working drawings combined
with scale model making, clay modeling,
lettering, historic ornamentation, archi
tectural drawing, monumental drawing
and vault construction. As in other art
industrial schools, this is not obligatory,
but is designed to aid many students
in securing better positions. The ele
mentary courses are given on alternate
evenings, either Tuesday and Thursday,
or Wednesday and Friday.
According to the faculty announcement
fees are payable each month in advance
as follows:' Elementary courses, $1 per
month and "0 cents per month for ap
prentices and public school pupils;; mod
eling. $2 and $1 per month; other ad
vanced studies at the same rate; non-
resident stunents nay ., .r.
. . . . .,r t AM.
1? rttf 11 nnr rnrit lit PlVPTl
l'-'r" 'r Lfare iw, 1 and
sw tendance of 80 per cent for the
u.. j, not anr y to
- K) ot eep the regula'r'school
n who , J Me flrU8.
.....: ,! h1 hours are from 6:30
... a , ,
n the basement rooms
of the Mathewson school building, cor
limn y- "
ner of Elm and Jefferson streets.
NEW VERMONT CORPORATIONS.
Canton Bros, of Barre and Vermont Ma
ple Syrup Co. of Essex Junction,
Articles of association were filed to
day w ith the secretary of state by Can-
- "-"i
J;i Ditto. .
t
