ffueumeari Tlews
6 4
AdvcrtiRcra Know Wlicrc to ft
Place Their Acta 6
0 ft
& ?
Lnrgcst Circulation of Any 9
0 I'upcr in Quay County 4
&
VOL. XV.
AND TUCUMCARI TIMES
TUCUMCARI, QUAY COUNTY, NEW MEXICO. THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1910
NO. 1
First Annual Cowboys' General Round-up, October 3d, 4th and 5th $2500.00 in Cash Prizes
GLENRIO'S COMMUN
ITY FAIRA SUCCESS
The fair at Glcnrio was a success in , to tho (iulf Ih Knowing greater ad
cvory particular. The r.how room was Ivanccmcnt, more prosperity and grcnt
lilled with numerous displays of farm or successes than has ever hecn known
products, fancy work, drawings, eul- in tho history of the world, Mr.
Unary, canned fruits and vegetables. Hughes' sarcastic criticisms of the
Friday was the first day and there grand results of our eminent president
was a good-sized crowd present to must seem small and foolish to this
witness hronc riding and fancy roping great people.
by "Texas Jack" and others. After We of the statu of New Mexico,
the hull game between Glcnrio and have a solemn duty to perform, in ser-
Kndee the day's festivities were
brought to a lilting close by a dance.
Glcnrio took care of the visitors
very nicely in private homes, tents
and' "douhfing-up" at the hotel.
Saturday dawned with a threatening
sky, which afturwards cleared into a
perfect day for the big program. Hronc
busting by Mexican Pete was worth
traveling miles to see as the hronc
was nothing more than nn out-law
burro, but he was there with the hot
stufT, and succeeded in dumping Pete
two out of three. This was followed
by a political speech by lion. Albert
Caliseh, democratic candidate for state
senator from Quay county. Mr. Cal
iseh was well received and his speech
was highly commended. It was in
part as follows:
Mr. Calisch's Address.
I am indeed glad to be with you, in
attendance at this your First Annual
Community Fair, of which you have
every right to fee', proud, and also
thankful to its promoters. There is
nothing so certain of cementing our
desires, as closer understandings.
Preparedness has been the great
question discussed throughout our
land, and like a tidal-wavo has covered
our country. Looking about me to
day, I have come to the conclusion, the
best prepuredncss, is making friends -
I therefore suggest, that you make
this Community Fair a permanent
yearly institution. Due to illness
early in the year, it became impossible
to give myself the pleasure of ming
ling with you. This ojportunity,
therefore, is one I am glad to take ad
vantage of. Not withstanding my
necessity for remaining at home, tho
majority of the constituency of our
county, voiced their wish, through the
primary ballot, that I be their Sena
torial Candidate. This signal honor
is keenly felt, and 1 pledge myself, if
elected on November 7, to be really,
truly the representative of Quay
County. You shall find me working,
with all that is in me, "For the Great
est Good, For the Largest Number."
Quay county shall be my objective
first, last, and always. If there be
possible ways presented, to help make
the means of happier, more material
living, or of strengthening the bonds
of friendship among our county's peo
ple I will use every effort to attain it.
You voters of Quay county, can bo
of inestimable assistance in my labors.
Your impressions, observations, and
ideas may often be of great import
ance, which if sent for consideration,
will always find my attention.
Increased educational facilities to
meet the needs, nnd wants of our boys
and girls so as to prepare them for
their world-battles in after life. Good
roads, not only for barter, trafllc, and
pleasure, but nlso for more closely
cementing the elements of our com
munities, and the people in them, so
as to engender a sense of being at
home, no matter where you are, in
Quay county in other words, to make
of our people, one great family, in
terested in tho general welfare of each
other. These are wishes I hope to mo
realized, and for which my best efforts
shall be given.
Mr friends, we are standing on tho
threshold of a period of vital impor
tance, to every individual in the nn-
tion, state and county.
Our deservedly beloved president,
Woodrow Wilson, is about to face the
necessity of asking your approval of
his policies, labors, and general inter
est in the welfare of the nation during
tho past term of his presidency. This
will be asked for, through your intel
ligent use of the sulirago franchise
on Nov. 7, as against an opponent, who
up to date has shown but little ability
for this highest gift at the hands of
the pcoplo, abovo being the favored o!
his own companions, and political fol
lowers, Our president, Woodrow Wil
son, who in tho space of the shor
period of three and one-half years has
accomplished more progressive loglslo
tion, legislation that means benefits to
eacr nnd overy citizen, than has been
written in tho records of our nation
during twenty-five years before his
incumbency of the office, is not only
deserving of your voto, but your do
votion. which should hu put into activ
service in his behalf. Wisdom, Ih bo
ing wise in time therefore begin now,
Criticism and vituperation are the
easiest parts of speech. At this timo
when every industry in our country
from ocean to ocean, and from Cnnudu
lousiy worwing lor our democratic
UcKet. uur inree electors must no
successful. In fact, our slogan must
he,- Elect every candidate from Wood-
row Wilson down, to the last candidate
oti our county ticket. -For New Mex
icoWe must wrench thu power now
obtaining in our state from the hands
of unscrupulous republican control.
Our state ticket present tho strongest
personal ever offered to our people.
No candidate on that ticket has ever
had the faintest breath of suspicion
directed toward him, and scandal at
taches to none of our standard hearers.
You can proudly go forth and preach
the good nnmo of our choice, for the
various offices as men of proven capa
city, and unassailable records moral
ly, or politically.
Such men as A. A. Jones, for the
United States Senate, from every an
gle, nationally, as well as state wide, '
is one of the biggest men in New .Mex
ico. As First Assistant Secretary of
the Interior never was an opportunity
lost to show his willingness to labor
for the people of New Mexico, and he
accomplished more for our people than
any other man who ever went from
our state to work in its interest. ,
E. C. de Haca for governor, than
who no cleaner, clearer minded or
forceful man has ever been honored
bv our state with the nomination by 1
his party for this high office, in whose
hands we enn safely place the reins of
government, and confidently look for
those results wo so fondly hope for.
Our present honored and oolovcJ
govenor, William C. McDonald, for
cutennnt governor, whoss efforts for
our stato and people have proven him
in earnest laborer for the general wof-
fare, and the record for results he now
rightfully owns, :nike him a champion
o ho proud of.
Willinm Walton for congress, one of
10 most intelligent, energetic demo
cratic workers beloved and vespected
all who know him completes a
quartet who are only equalled by the
rest of our candidates for state favor,
and who make a body of men not ex-
eeded nnywhere for real worth, who
will bring such credit to our state
through their intcllcgent, efficient en-
eavor as will bring pride to our
(Continued on back page)
DANCING. BOXING. PICTURE
SHOWS AND HIG CARNIVAL
number of local Klks have ar
ranged to build a large dance plat
form on the vacant lot adjoining the
Elk drug store on which a jitne dance
will be held each evening during the
ound-up. A picture show and dance
also will be given at the opera house
the third and fifth. On the night of
the fourth a good boxing card has
icon arranged which will be staged
at the opera house. Tommy Living
stone, the crack lightweight of hi
'aso, has been matched against Kis-
cus Mil) ol weaver, wuo iook me place
of Gnnzulcs, for a ten round bout and
there will be some preliminaries. Two
'wild Irish lads, sons of James O'-
Uourk, of Tucumcari, will go five fast
rounds in one of the prelims. It is
said these boys are some pugs and
will furnish genuine amusement.
A carnival company will have some
shows on the vacant lot south of the
Glenrock Hotel. They have launched a
queen of the Roundup contest and are
offering a fi-8 carat diamond ring to
the winner and a thirty dollar gold
wrist watch as a second prize.
Confeti will be sold at fie per sack
with 'which five votes will be given.
I tul lot boxes will be placed in differ
ent stores in the city and the young
ladies receiving the most votes will
be given these valuable prizes. Sev
eral contestants have already entered.
The management of the dance plat
form referred to above will give five
votes with each twenty-five cent sale
of dnncu tickets. A number of mer-
dinnts will give vote tickets.
PHILHARMONIC SOC1 HTY
The Philharmonic Society will hold
its first meeting of tho year on Fri
day evening next week. Those inter
ested in its successful organization
will confer with Rev. 10. J, Hoering,
musical director. A concert is being
planned for sometime about Christ
mas, and another sometime in April,
Tell your neighbor to attend the big
Roundup nnd subscribe for the News.
"What Would You Have Done? The
EVERYTHING READY
THE BIG "ROUND-UP"
COMMENCES OCT. 2
The Roundup festivities wil! ! op- ; A meeting of the Wilson-Marshall
tned next Tito.-dav morning by a big club was held at the Court House last
ttrect parade which will form at ten Monday night with a good attendance,
o'clock on Main street near the Klks' A number of outside visitors were in
Club. attendance nnd lifter perfecting a per-
Old time cow men from all over the manent organization several were call
west will lead the parade, headed by ,"d upon for speeches and the requests
M. R. Goldenberg, and all old-timers ; were responded to with the old time
are urged to get into the parade. t Democratic spirit.
These will be followed by the ofll- ' The meeting was called to order by
cials of the roundup and then the par- ('. H. Alldredge and the following per-
ticipants in the events, Everyone who
has a horse in nlso invited to line up
and fall in.
Automobiles will follow the horses
and every car owner in town is re
quested and expected to line up and
get in the parade. The formation
should start about nine o'clock. Citi
zens are asked to start Monday to
decorate their houses, places of busi
ness. Husiness concerns will leave the
lights burning in their store windows
all night during the Roundup. Car
owners are also requested to decorate
their cars for the parade. It is hoped
that every citizen in Tucumcari will
join hnnds toward making the Round
up one of the biggest anil best enter
tainments ever staged in the city, and
that each nnd every citizen will do all
ho can toward decorating anil making
tho guests feel at home.
The popular Amarillo Concert baud
will furnish music during the Round-
up and will play a concert each even-
ing at 8 o'clock at Second and Main.
Practically all of the stores in the
city will be closed from one to five
in tho afternoon during the three days
and will stay open from five to eight
Housewives are requested to take note
of this announcement and are request
ed to arrange to make their purch
ases in accordance with the same. Tho
local merchants want to tnke in the
afternoon entertainment at the fair
grounds and feel that the entire pop
ulation of the city will be at the big
doings during the afternoon. The en
tertainment at the grounds will com
mence at one p. m. General admis
sion will be fide, grand stand Ufie ad
ditional. Guests will be met at the trains by
a representative entertainment com
mittee nnd automobiles will carry the
guests free of charge to their rooms.
Let all of Tucumcari get together
with a unity of purpose to be real
hosts to the city's guests.
THU WOMAN'S' CLUD
The Womans Club nnd Sorosis, two
women's organiza ions of Las Vegas, t,,0 roBro8H of tho natioM from Gl,0(
are i onto, tain ing the State rodoration W)lshint;ton down to the present time,
of Women's Clubs ion October U, Land , Rim for tl0 carncs't t of
B, and 0. Great preparations lmvo;ovu ry ,,oUovor n penCL. pro sporit y and
i ll ,,,r mw"K
oration.
u,i.....u. .....,
nw,u,n'
Dr. Noble will speak to Doy Scouts
on tho subject, "First Aid" at St Mich
ael's church Friday enening at 7:30
o'clock. Visitors welcome
Ptople Have A Right To Know'
Dayton New.
WILSON-MARSHALL
CLUB MEETS - PER
FECTS ORGANIZATION
manent officers were elected:
President- t . .M. Stnnrill.
Vice-Pres.- C. E. Hunter.
Secretary -M. R. James.
Treasurer T. A. Muirhead.
At the recommendation of the com
mittee on organization the following
were chosen on the different commit
tees: Membership Com. R. A. Dodson.
Onesimo Salazar and H. .1. WotTord.
Official Interpreter .lames Abeyta.
Finance Com J. W. Corn. R. P.
Donohoo, and J. M. Stark.
Press Com. J. D. Cutlip. Ira E.
Furr, and C. H. Meeker.
Organization Com. K. F. Saxon, D.
J. Finegan and Lee G. Pearson.
Program Committee Mesdames H.
Swan, D. J. Finegan nnd E. E. Clark.
Executive Com.Oscnr Sandusky,
C. E. Hawkins, M. Justice. Roland
Drown and Percy Samples,
1 It was further recommended that
the president of the club be empowered
;to appoint a committee of three for
; the purpose of immediately perfecting
i organizations of local clubs in each
.precinct in Quay county, and that such
community he authorized to appoint
local organizations, and urge the im
portance of more efficient county or
ganization and further suggest that
the Democratic County chairman lie
ex-ofiicio chairman of this committee.
The committee on by-laws was not
ready to report owing to the absence
of one of the members, but a motion
was made and seconded creating tlte
fllces of president, vice-president, sec
retary and treasurer.
Membership cards were passed out
to those present and they were readily
signed and delivered to the acting sec
retary.
Upon the suggestion of C. H. All
dredge several of the members were
called upon to address the club, A
hearty response was the result.
i J. C. Williams made tho speech of
his life and highly complimented the
I great achievements of President Wil-
1 son nnd the democratic congress.
J. A. Atkins of San Jon, reviewed
preparedness, to support tho national,
state and county democratic nominees
" thoy art submissive to the wishes
and desires of tho masses.
Albert Caliseh, of Montoya, was in
Monday evening and attended tho I
club meeting. Ho was called upon to
address tho members. He told of tho'
organization of a Wilson-Marshall
Club at Montoya and the bringing into
tho fold of several old-time republicans
een Hank Thurtnan, a "stand-pat,"
joining the club. The membership
was IHi and the prospects are for n
large membership in that former re
publican precinct.
Mr. Yates of Plain, said the dem
ocrats out his way had about worn out
their sore spots and were ready to line
up for the ticket.
W. A. Dodson, candidate for com
missioner, spoke in his usual easy
, way and plead for the support of the
ticket from top to bottom.
Peter Laritson of Quay promised a
good majority for the democrats in
his part of the county.
A. L. inn. member of the Youiil'
I Men's Democratic Club, suggested spe
cial missionary work to win the new
voters, those who will cast their first
wto this year. Facts and figures to
ie produced to prove the advantages
if Democracy Is chosen as their stand
ard. Mr.Zinn was a republican by birth
but says he has been converted. He
is a strong supporter of Wilson and
de Raca.
Felipe Sanchez gave one of his most
enthusiastic speeches and plead with
the democrats to especially support
the candidates for senator and repre
sentatives, as they are needed to as
sist in the passage of democratic meas
ures. He said Mr. Haca would be pow
erless to accomplish anything unless
the legislature is democratic. He said
no one would question the American
ism of a man whose ancestry could be
traced back to Kngland, Germany and
France; therefore the Americans of
Spanish ancestry should be recognized
as peaceful, libery-loving citizens who
are just as patriotic as any other class
of citizens. They will fight for Uncle
Sam, no matter who the enemy might
be and the New Mexico regiment on
the border is largely composed of
Americans, decendents from Spaniards
who drove the indians from this state
and made it possible for citizens from
all parts of the world to live here in
peace.
After talking over various questions
concerning the present campaign, it
was decided to meet every Monday
night at the Court House. A special
nvitation is to be extended to every
voter of Quay county to attend these
meetings, especially those who are in
accord with the policies of the Demo
cratic party.
I! U'I'I ('II (IP I'dlMtPtiT I
BETTER DEMOCRAT NOW
Albert Caliseh. Democratic candi-1
late tor state senator, in company
with chairman Briscoe and Carl Brown
vice president of the Wilson-Marshall
club of Montoya, made a delightful
two days trip over a wide scope of
the plains country.
One of the pleasu'es of that trip
was a visit to .Mr. .1. II. Welch's at
Forrest. Mr. Welch, It will be remem
bered, was our representative in the
m t legislature where he served with
listinction. It was found that mat
ters in his entire section are in a most
favorable condition for the Democratic
national, state and county tickets, Mr.
Welch was found to be not only a
genial host, but a man of staunchest
oyalty to his Democratic principles.
He emphatically expressed his allegi
ance to the Democratic party, and im
pressively stated, "I am a better dem
ocrat than ever; as I grow older, much
greater reasons for democracy and a
greater faith in its principles, arc in
Constance evidence.
Mr. Welch has graciously volunteer
ed to address several meetings, at va
rious places, in support of the Demo
cratic state and county tickets. No
doubt he will be welcomed nt the gath
erings by hundreds of old-time sup
porters and friends.
LIGHTNING KNOCKED THREE
FROM WAGON KILLS MULE
Lightning struck and killed a mule
belonging to Mr. Harrold, who recently
bought the Henry Smith farm south
west of Tucumcari.
Mr. Harrold, together with two oth
er men were reim ning home from Tu
cumcari Saturday night during the
thunder storm. When nenr Piper
Moore's place on the Quay road, the
mule was struck dead and the three
men knocked from the wagon in which
they were riding. Mr. Hnrrold fell
unconscious near tho dead mule, but
soon recovered. When he nrose he
found one mule dead and the other
unharmed. They were fine animals
and only a short time ago were worth
iu the neighborhood of S4f0.
This is quite a loss to Mr. Harrold
but he is glad it was no worse.
At tho instant the ligtning struck
the mule, an auto load of people from
Tucumcari, was passing nnd was only
a lew yards away. The driver, yountr
er son of C. M. Kecler, wns slightly
snocKcd. Another auto load was
short distance behind tho car driven
by Kecler, but not close enough to
"otico the shock. It is rather miracu
'" that nil parties escaped.
Attend the Roundup noxt week.
STATE ENGINEER AL
LOWS QUAY COUNTY
$6
Every new automobifr owner is a
good roads enthusiast, and an effort
should be made to make tho road be
tween Tucumcari and Ragland a spe
cial drive-way. This is tho shortert
route to the plains country nnd when
once on top of the Cap it is a pleasure
to drive as the roads are especially
good.
It will be noticed that the State en
gineer has loosened up his heart anil
allowed Quay county $0000 for road
building between the county line nnd
Montoya. This is apprcciat .d, hut we
would like to have two or three hun
dred to fix the ronds south of Tucum
cari so the farmers down thnt way
will not have to drive down in Curry
county to market their wheat. There
are thousands of bushels being sold
at Melrose that would come here if
the roads were decent. Tho local mar
ket has been higher right along. Coal
and merchandise arc cheaper here,
but the farmer cannot afford to pull
thu liver out of his teams in order to
patronize his home county seat.
Ask any man who has traveled tho
main road south to Ragland and see
whnt he thinks about it. Tucumcari
is getting considerable wheat, but is
not getting a fourth of what she de
serves, and there is nothing to blame
but the two or three bad places in a
road thirty miles in length. One of
the places could be fixed for a small
sum of money. The other two would
take a few days and some money. The
Tucumcari merchants have paid sub
scriptions enough to have a boulevard
to the cap, but the money has been
used to fix roads in every direction.
One good road is better than a thous
and poor ones. Its not economy to buy
u shabby suit of clothes. A farmer
thnt puts his crop in on unprepared
ground reaps a very small harvest.
Its easy to point out the other fellow's
mistakes, but often hard to choose the
right course. Ronds should be desig
nated by the county and then worked
so thnt permanent good will result. It
sure mnkes a fellow hot under the
icuiiur iu k out un one ronu 10 some
! otMur Vrt of the county end when you
. try to return over the same route, to
I find thnt some fellow has put a fence
across the road and vou are forced to
travel around over hills and hollows to
get back home. 4
There is a bridge on the Plaza Lar
go creek, nearly due south of Tucum
nri. It is said that a good road could
be laid out to it which would be a God
send to those who pull big loads of
grain and merchandise to and from
Tucumcari. Once a good road is es
tablished and put in condition the up
keep would be very small as there are
few rains to wnsh the filling away.
Sand and clay mixed thoroughly and
once smoothed will make a road-bed
we will be proud of. The local ele
vator will be ready to handle wheat
within a few duys. Already wheat is
being dumped into the first bin. Here
tofore the company was handicapped
by having to scoop wheat from tho
wagons directly into the cars.
Now that the elevator is ready to
begin filling its bins its up to some
one to make it possible for the wheal
growers to come hero. Tho wheat buy
er is paying a big price for the grain
anil inning a long chance, thus he is
not able to go out and pay for grad
ing the roads. The proposition is up
to Tucumcari. Who can solve this
problem: "If a road is thirty miles
long and nine-tentln is in fairly good
condition, how can the other one-tenth
bo fixed without a united eifort from
people at both ends of the route and
those on either side of the rond. with
out money or the equivalent?"
Harry Whiteside was in from Quay
Tuesday on business. He is as anxious
to see a good road out thai way as
many others are. but he says he is
not financially able to build the road
nnd does not know whero to get tho
money with which to pay tho bills if
lie should attempt to fix the rond. If
those who would bo benefited by hav
ing good ronds would meet nnd solicit
funds to defray tho expenses, ho snys
he will oversee the job free of charge
and guarantee to givo nn account for
every dollar subscribed for that pur
pose. Now, if Tucumcari is nllve to
Iter best interests she will sec that
this road to Ragland is put in con
dition for wheat haulers to bring their
grain to Tucumcari
MRS. AGERTER'S MOTHER DIES
Mrs. Nancy Huber, who camo here
a short time ago from Moulton, Iowa,
to stay with hor daughter, Mrs. D.
Agertcr, died Friday afternoon nftor
an illness of only n few hours dura
tion. Tho remains wero shipped to
Moulton for burial. Mr. Agorter was
on his way homo with his mother who
spent tho summer hero and was noti
fied by wire of Mrs, Hubcr's death.
FO
OS
