1
ñ
. r
I
REMEMBER THE REPUBLICAN COUNTY CONVENTIONS NOVATE THE COUNTY TICKET IS SET FOR OCTOBER 11th
TTJi
11 fi
CLAYTON CIT
VOLUME 12
CLAYTON, NEW MEXICO, THURS DAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1916
NO. 38
THE REPUBLICAN STATE COMMITTEE
on Saturday, Sept 23, 1916, Tendered to
THE SANTA FE NEW MEXICAN .
(a daily newspaper at Santa Fe)
A one-half page advertisement to be paid for at a rate previously
quoted to the committee by that newspaper for display advertising.
THE NEW MEXICAN REFUSED TO PUBLISH THIS ADVER
TISEMENT on the flimsy pretext that it contained libelous matter.
THE ADVERTISEMENT CONTAINED NO LIBELOUS MATTER.
Every political advertisement issued by the Republican State Com
mittee is first passed upon by competent legal counsel, to insure it
makes no libelous statement. This is done for the protection of the
newspapers printing these advertisements, and to meet the rigid re
quirement of the Republican State Committee, that every Republican
statement in this campaign be the exact truth. This advertisement
had been so considered and passed upon for publication as an exact
statement of facts.
THIS ADVERTISEMENT CONTAINED A SIMPLE STATEMENT
of Facts sworn to by personal appointees and friends of Governor
William C. McDonald tending to prove that Governor McDonald and
Howell Earnest, then State Bank Examiner, did not properly protect
the interests of the 600 depositors who lost in the wrecking of the
First State Bank at Las Cruces.
THE NEW MEXICAN IS SUPPORTING THE GUBERNATORIAL
twins, McDonald and De Baca. Daily it prints libelous matter directed
against the candidates of the republican State Ticket. It does not fear
libel suits for its owner with his millions can stand them.
But The Santa Fe New Mexican will not print the truth even at ad
vertising display rates. The Santa Fe New Mexican refuses to pre-'
sent any but one side in this campaign and that one side distorted.
The Republican State Committee considers it worth the money this
advertisement costs to present this fact to the readers of the Santa Fe
New Mexican who wish a fair, intelligent and honest understanding
of the men and issues in this election campaign.
YOU CANNOT RELY ON NOR TRUST A NEWSPAPER WHICH
FEARS. TO PRINT THE TRUTH
A TOWN MARSHAL BY ALL
MEANS
Clayton needs a town marshal, or
some executive authority that will en
force the ordinances of the town. The
roller-skate, skid-wagon bunch has
taken charge of the side-walks of the
main street and the lives of pedes-
' trians are threatened daily with reck
less violence of order and decorum.
, Men, women and children have to bo
eternally on the lookout and "skiddoo"
in order to avoid being run over by
the roller skate crew, or an over-speed
limit, winding, dodging automo-4rd-car.
There Beems to be no observance
of rules and regulations regarding the
parking of cars or orderly passage
through the main street. Drivers
jump into cars and dash out in any
direction, swaying from one side of
the street to the other trying to dodge
each other while dashing along in vi
olation of the speed limit ordinance.
Men often choke up the sidewalk in
foul-mouthed, indecent, obscene, pro
fane conversations, all unobservant of
the fact that ladies, gentlemen and
little children have a right to pass
along that way without obstruction
or insult, and especially is this the
case in front of the saloons. Disease
producing garbage and rubbish are
tossed about loose almost anywhere
and everywhere, and it would seem 'to
the stranger who happens to visit
Clayton and makes even a casual in
spection of .things generally that the
CALL FOR REPUBLICAN CON
VENTION IN PRECINCT
NO. ONE
YOU ARE HEREBY NOTIFIED,
That the Republican Precinct Con
vention will be held at the Court
House, in Clayton, on the 7th day
of October, 1916, for the purpose of
selecting 18 delegates to the Coun
ty Convention which meets at Clay
ton, October 11th, 1916, for the
purpose of nominating County of
ficers. CARL EKLUND,
Precinct Chairman.
THE NOMINEES
For President
CHARLES E. HUGHES
For Vice-President
CHARLES FAIRBANKS
For Presidential Electors
C. L. HILL, Las Cruces.
H. J. HAMMOND, Clayton.
JUAN ORTIZ, Santa Fe.
For U. S. Senator
FRANK A. HUBBELL
For Congressman
B. C. HERNANDEZ
For Attorney General
FRANK V.'. CLANCY
For Governor
HOLM O. BURSUM
For Lietenant Governor
W. E. LINDSEY
For Justice Supreme Court
CLARENCE J. ROBERTS
For Secretary of State
GILBERTO MIRABAL
For Corporation Commtasioner-
MALAQUIAS MARTINEZ
For State Auditor
W. G. SARGENT
For State Treasurer
GREGORY PAGE
For Superintendent of Schools-
J. H. WAGNER
For Land Commissioner
R. P. ERVIEN
For District Attorney
ORIE L. PHILLIPS
Interest Costs Total
.48 .92 7.80
.84 .92 13.00
33.24 .92 477.30
16.86 .92 212.57
16.28 .92 234.30
ANNOUNCEMENTS
T. J. CRUMLEY
T. J. Crumley announces his
candidacy for the. republican
nomination for sheriff of. Un
ion county, and earnestly soli
cits your support in the repub
lican convention.
JOHN L. HILL
"We are authorized to an
nounce John L. Hill as a candi
date for the nomination for the
office of Sheriff at the Repub
lican County Convention.
So the People May Know
town is a long way from being an in
corporated one. The town ought also
to install public scales and establish
public weights which would bring
some money into the town treasury to
help bear the expense of a marshal.
. .
v
Charlie Bushnell c-f Beenham has a
new "cow-puncher" at his home or
rather at the Clayton General Hos
pital for the present. The young
man is r.ot disabled in any manner
j but it will be several years before he
will be of any actual service to his
father. Mrs. Bushnell thinks he
might also be used to do light house
keeping in absence of any sisters in
the family. We congratulate them
and hope he may some day be Presi
dent. , . : !
Our esteemed, though somewhat
nervous, fieedy, fussy, little contem
porary, the Des Moines Swastika,
"both" of whose owners enjoy the sol
itary and unique distinction of "wear
ing one" Ingersoll watch and each of
whose owners, evidently own a half
interest in said watch, made a TIME
LY remark last week when it said:
"We believe it is due the Demo
cratic party that the News prepare
a statement and show just how much
of this is for job printing and how
much for commissioner's proceedings
and other publications."
Why due the democratic party? Is
the so-called democratic party of Un
ion county the "whole cheese?" Is the
jimmycratic party of Union county
the only creditor of that publication?
Seems so, according to the Swastika
"The-people-be-damned! as long as
iimmvocracv is in the saddle. It
doesn't owe anything to the people
nor will it render to the people any
voluntary account of its "doin's." But
then, why should the News worry
The people, not the "jimmycratic par
ty," furnished the money and the
board .of county commissioners have
nnRsed unon. and paid, the bills and
their legal status is now beyond their
jurisdiction. It is doubtful that the
News will attempt to unscrew the in
scrutable just to accommodate the
whims of the jimmycratic party.
But our fussy little contemporary
actually bubbles over with credulous
concer-i in the following respecting
the same topic:
"The Clayton Citizen in order to
mislead the people and try to convince
them that the county commissioners
have been paying the News illegal
SO THE TAX-PAYERS MAY KNOW
We have picked up another method of advertising the delinquent tax
list since the passage of the laws of 1915. This time we take it from El
Agricultor Moderno, the supposed "official organ" of Sandoval county, pub
1 hed at Bernalillo. In this particular tax matter Sandoval county is under
so-called democratic administration. Gavino Garcia, who is well known
here, is the accredited president of "El Agricultor Moderno, ORGANO OF
FICIAL DEL CONDADO SANDOVAL." Below we show you just how they
"do" the delinquent tax list over in that county under jimmycratic admin
istration. We take five lines as a sample. Here they are:
SCHOOL DISTRICT NO. 1
Name of Property owner Taxes
Agricultor Moderno $ '6.40
Armijo y García, Juan 11.24
Baca Miguel C. de 443.14
Baca Socimo C. de 224.79
Faca Francisco C. de 217.10
And so it goes on with 53 'different school districts until the list foots
up o07 delinquent taxpayers with the invariable "Costs" of $0.92 figured up
against each thereby, quadrupling the costs, which cannot be anything but
the cost of advertising, against both the county of Sandoval and the delin
quent taxpayers over there. El Agricultor Moderno is an agricultural sheet
by inference but it seems to be plowing deeper into Sandoval's treasury than
into her soil. Now this sheet purports to be both English and Spanish hav
ing two outside pages in local Spanish and an inside of patent English and,
by Crackie, it publishes both tax lists, or rather the same tax list, on sep
arate pages with a Spanish head and tail to it on one page and an English
head and tail to it on another page. However, they knew enough over there
to refrain from "inserting any descriptions." But you will notice they
"double-columned" it, thereby counting two lines to each delinquent taxpay
er, then "double-published" it in the same sheet, thereby again doubling the
number of lines, making four to each delinquent taxpayer and 4 times 23
cents makes 92 cents figured up against each taxpayer where the law al
lows but once 23 cents. Now 507 times $0.92 is $466.44 and this sum may
be demanded of Sandoval county by the agricultural sheet whereas, under
the law, $116.61, just one-fourth that amount, is all that is coming for that
publication.
Now, Mr. Taxpayer of Union county, take your own county and look at it.
In the last delinquent tax list published there are, (including "Unknown
Owners" who are many,) approximately and very closely so too, 754 delin
quent taxpayers on the list. Now 754 times 23 cents makes $173.43: but if
figured out with all the descriptions "inssrted" will closely approximate 3519
lines and at 23 cents a line produces $809.37 a difference of $635.49 each pa
per, or $1270.99 for the two; and assuming that the tax list published last
year would figure up about the same it would make a difference in the two
years of about $2541.98; but if each publication is allowed ori'y half of the
23 cents a line in Union county, which is certainly not the case in Sandoval
county as indicated in- its published list, each would get only one half of
$173.42 under the one supposition and only one half of $809.37 in the other;
but in any case, a strict compliance with the law for the last two years would
have saved Union county about $1270.99, and if each publiction is to get 23
cents a line for all the descriptions inserted it would be a saving of at least,
about $2541.98. The presumption is that the newspapers published just what
they were ordered to publish and are not in any 'degree responsible for the
irregularity of the publication but that is no reason why the county, or the
delinquent taxpayer should be held liable to pay for such irregular publication.
It seems certain that, over in Sandoval county, the county is expected to
pay 23 cents a line to each publication, that is the Spanish and the English
which would make 46 cents a line altogether; else why is the treasurer of
Sandoval county charging each delinquent taxpayer $0.92 as "costs?" Had
it eliminated the three columns, "Taxes," "Interest," anl "Costs" and pub
lished only the name of the property owner and the total amount due from
him, there would have been no necessity for more than one line of single
column matter for each delinquent. Over in Colfax county, where a repub
lican administration is in charge of the delinquent tax lists, 23 cents, instead
of 92 cents, is charged up against the county, collected by the newspaper
from the county and in turn collected by the treasurer from the delinquent
taxpayer. Do you observe the difference, Mr. Taxpayer?
Again, the copy of the issue of Agricultor Moderno from which we t"ke
the gam pie is dated September 21, 1916. Assuming that is the date of the
last issue and counting back fourweeks from that date we have August 31,
1916, as the date at which it starts which is not "within forty-five days after
the first day of June" as required by law for the beginning of such publica- '
tions. . Assuming that the publication started within the forty-five days, then
it would have to start not later than July 13, 1916, in that publication and he
would be running it eleven weeks with the last issue.
The truth is, the Clayton Citizen
did not pass upon the legality or il
legality of any of the items of the ac
counts it published for the informa
tion of its readers and the people of
Union county and the State of New
Mexico generally, nor has it intimated
or alleged that any or all of such
amounts were, or are, "illegal
amounts;" nor has it "willfully" or in
any other manner, "perverted the true
facts In the case." However, the
Clavton Citizen, or any one else for
that matter, does not know why one
publication received more for pre
sumably the same service than anoth
er; and herein arises the "inscrutable"
which we hope now will be unscrewed
by the Swastika "on time." The Citi
zen merely gave portions of the record
just as it found them, or perhaps,
rather a compilation of such portions
upon which it is willing to stand. And
just, here we wish to state for the in
formation of our readers, and es
pecially our fussy little contempor
ary, that there are many entries on
the same record for "job work," and
"r inting for Co. Supt." which were
the amounts reported
not included in
amounts they have willfully perverted by the Citizen and would only go to
the true facts in the case." I swell the total- amounts which the
publications referred to in the report
got. Now the record from which these
things were obtained is not the
record of the Citizen, nor the record
of the republican party but the record
of Union county and the,jimmyocracy
ought to be willing to stand upon its
record. And just here we will take
occasion to remark that, according to
this same record, there was very lit
tle "job work" accounted for that is
not charged to the county superin
tendent's office. In fact, we believe we
can truthfully say, that there is not
another office in the county which is
specially mentioned as having work
done for it, at least, there is not more
than ope or two entries in four and a
half years to any other office than
that of the county superintendent. Is
this because the county superintend
ent happens to be a republican and
discredit upon him as an extravagant
officer is intended to be reflected by
such a record ? Our nervous little con
temporary must have been overcome
with grief when it said:
"Tha perty has to answer to the
charge and it is simple justice that the
facts be given out."
It is the opinion of the Citizen, and
(Continued on 4th page)
