Yii^r
The intelligent,' common sense
workinguien prefer to depl with the
problems of today, with which they
must contend if they want to make
advancements, rather than to deal
with a picture1'or a dream.—Gom*
pers.
Vol. 23. No. 45.
New Political Organization Has
Fully 4,400,000 Votes to Seal
Franchise Bargain.
WOMEN MAKE FLAT
DEMANDS FOR SUPPORT
Leaders Turn From Chicago Con­
vention and Put Up Fight
at St. Louis.
I CHICAGO, June 17.-—Backed by a
.voting strength variously estimated at
between three and four and a half
million, and with a cash box that con­
tains at least a half million, the
Woman's party is the newest political
•uncertainty to be thrown into the
troubled arena.
Today the women put it straight
Up to the men politicians, asking
whether they intended to come across
with a suffrage amendment or not.
Representatives of Republican,
Democratic, Socialist, Bull Moose and
'Prohibition parties made speeches
to the women. The
Governor Osborn of Michigan, and
John Hayes Hammond of New York,
iwere the first to publicly plead for
iher consideration of the cause of Re-,
tpublicans. Osborn declared that "if
,the Republican party has any politi­
cal sense left, it will adopt the Susan
B. Anthony amendment as a plank of
jits platform, and nominate Theodore
iRoosevelt," but admitted that he did
not expect it to do the former. Miss
Suffrage Party immediately lost in­
terest in his suit.
Hammond boasted that Republicans
would protect the bride, "by force of
arms and not by mere words," if she
/would "but yield her hand—and votes.
He painted in glowing words the
manliness of the Republican party,
Ibut dodged a pre-nuptial contract.
But all in vain.
Cheered by the chilly reception
given the proposals of his hated riv­
als, Dudley Field Malone, Collector of
the Port of New York, sought to rush
the young lady to a hasty pledge for
Democracy and Woodrow Wilson.
I-have not come all the way from
New York to flatter you," Malone de­
clared. "Republicans have joined
joined George M. Cohan and are wav­
ing the American flag to win your
support. We nvant you to come with
Continued on Page 2.
A unique, horrible word picture
of war has been painted by Eloi Bor
din, who recntly left New York for
Can Francisco, after experiences in
French trenches facing the German
line.
Stories galore have been told by
men "back from the trenches." But
among them Bordin's narrative
stands out, distinctively in a class by
Itself.
His viewpoint is diffbrent from the
others, vastly so—for Bordin "quit"
the trenches after he became con­
vinced that "war is no job for a
human being."
Admitted DesertiOn.
He makes no bones of the fact that
he deserted. Just how the oppor­
tunity came, ho does not say, for so
doing would involve others. But he
did not," quit'. because of cowardice.
He played his part with bravery in
six different attacks on the German
lines in the Champagne district. He
was four times disabled—twice by
poison gas and twice witihn a week
by shells which buried him under
ground.
Bordin is an American of French
birth. He enlisted at the beginning
of the war and saw twenty months of
service.
"I Ought to know about war,* says
BOrdin. "From the soldier's stand­
point, that is. As to the standpoint
of the men who send you into the
war, that is altogether another mat­
ter. Ido not know anything about
that. No soldier does. In the Frehch
trenches, the soldiers were alw.ays
~~"1
*•*1
—VOTE FOR ORDIX/1 V'— —VOTE FOR ORDINANCE "A"—
WIELDS BIG CLUB
Republicans,
Progressives and Democrats made
nice talks, but promised nothing,
The Socialists and Prohibitionists
made straight-out declarations. The
Socialist party, of course, stood for
suffrage before there was much of
any suffrage movement in the coun­
try.
However, these women want votes,.
'And those who have them are going to
use their votes to win them for those
who have them not. This game is a
straight-out game of practical politics.
vThe
women see only two parties who
have the power to grant what they
want—the Republicans and the Dem­
ocrats.
That is why they, listened intently
to what the minority parties had to
say and then proceeded to other busi­
ness.
Wants Prenuptial Contract.
Miss Suffrage Party has a dowry of
4.400,000 votes to bestow upon the
suitod who wins her affections. She
ihas already demonstrated that she is
not easily to be beguiled by the flat
itering phrases of those who love her
ifor-Jher votes alone, but will insist,
•upon a prenuptial-contract, pledging,
jln return, equal political opportunity
ffor all American women, though a
national suffrage amendment.
Only Paper In Chicago Backing
Up Workers Is Muzzled By
Julge.
DECREE HITS ABOUT
3,000 TANNERY EMPLOYES
Publication Will Defy Capitalistic
Court and Fight for Free
Speech.
By MAX SHEROVER.
CHICAGO, June 17.—-What is con­
ceded by'leading men'in the lab*r
movement as the worst injunction in
the history of American labor was is_
sued recently by Judge Jesse A. Bald­
win of the Circuit Court of Cook
county, at the behest of a group of
tannery manufacturers, commonly
known as the "Tannery Trust." The
writ is aimed generally at the 3,000
tannery workers who are out in a
heroic struggle against working con­
ditions which defy description and it
is aimed particularly against the Pol­
ish daily, Dzienik Ludowy, which
from the beginning of the struggle
proved the backbone of the strikers'
solid and determined stand.
About three weeks ago 3,000 tan­
nery workers, two-thirds of whom
are Poles,- went Out on strike, rebell­
ing against an average wage of $7 a
week for a twelve-hour day in one of
the most hazardous occupations.
Realizing that their only protection
against unspeakable abuses lay in or­
ganization, they formed a uriion, of
which Dzienik Ludowy was the cre­
ative factor, and were later recog­
nized and taken in by the Chicago
Federation of Labor, through the in­
strumentality of John Fitzpatrick, its
president, and William Schoenberg,
business agent of the International
Association of Machinists.
Bosses Backed by Court.
Dumfounded at the surprising
demonstration of solidarity among
the workers whom they have been
unmolestedly robbing and crushing
for years, the manufactures in their
despertion turned to the ever-ready
and obliging capitalist courts. The
court responded readily and issued
what is conceded by lawyer® and
labor leaders to be the -most sweep­
ing and liberty-destroying legal. in­
strument ever handed down from a
judge's bench. It denies and pro­
hibits the striking workers from
making any move, from uttering any
word, or printing a line that can be
construed as interfering with or as
attempting to injure the business of
their exploiters.
The writ specifically names the
editors of the only Polish paper in
Chicago that has defiantly and loy­
ally always lined up with the work­
ers in this and every other city in any
struggle against capitalist aggression.
When the germ of discontent first
made itself heard from the ranks of
the tannery workers, it found expres­
sion in Dzienik Ludowy,-and through
out the long period of pregnancy and
birth of the strike this paper give its
space generously to the strikers"
cause, and its editors, M. Sokolow'sny,
have worked like be&vers between
issues addressing strikers' meetings
and imbuing the workers with the
spirit of solidarity which they are
displaying, it was this activity of
the paper that drove the manufac­
turers to the courts. The Polish capi­
talist and prostituted sheets have
been bribed into silence by lavish ad­
vertisements inserted by the bosses.
And when repeated efforts to buy the
silence of Dzienik Ludowy with an
$800 advertising contract failed, the
bosses' lawyers secured the injunc­
tion, the purpose of which is to make
Continued on Pgge J3#
for? What are we fighting about?"
Nobody could answer.
like American Slaves.
"I saw twenty months of trench
fighting. At the end of that time a
chance offered itself, and I quit. I
feel about that quitting exactly as
the American slave, in the days be­
fore the Civil war, felt, when he had
managed to run away from his mas­
ter. Soldiers are slaves. Nothing
more. Just slaves.
"I quit my job after I had had
plenty of time to become convinced
that it was no job for a human being.
No man has" any right to send other
men into the places where I have
been, or to do the things I have done.
It was right to quit.
"Mud is the soul and the essence of
trench life. It is always with you.
It gets into everything,. and every­
thing gets into it.
Sickening Mud:
''It is a peculiarly sickening sort of
mud. it has things in it that are not
in regular mud. All the trench offal,
cast aside by a crowded army of men!
becomes a part of that foot-deep
mud. Old garments, shoes, food, bits
of metal, are added to it. The arm
or the leg of a man who had had his
arm or leg shot off drops into the
mud, rots, and itself passes, after
days, into the condition of mud.
There, are worms In that mud—mag­
got?.
"The soldier is always soaked in it,
bathed in it, pickled Hit it. It is in
his ey$s, his hair, his nostrils, his
mouth. There is an? 4U prepauftion
This is our last word for the city fireman. yVe canjt
say more as the election will be oyer and the question
of the two-platoon system will have been decided by the
voters before this paper goes to press next week.
The Labor World is intensely interested, in this ques­
tion. We advocate the passage of Ordinance "A," and ik
doing so we sincerely believe we are working in the
best interests of the city, as well as of the firemen.
We believe that a fire department conducted under
the two-platoon system will be more efficient than ja
department that is operated on a continuous twenty-four
hour schedule, and we are more than convinced that we
are correct in our position since we have read the testi­
mony of America's greatest fire fighters on the wonder­
ful improvement that followed the inauguration .of the
two-platoon system in every city where it has been piit
into effect.
It should not take very much argument to convince
any fair minded voter of the justice of the demands of
the Duluth firemen.
It is true that this is the sentimental side of the
two-platoon issue, but who is so hardened as to thrust
sentiment aside in dealing with a question of such
human importance?
As a matter of cold business the Duluth firemen have
earned the right to demand the 12-hour workday. The
service they have rendered to the city the saving to life
and property their heroism and their sacrifice entitle
them to this meager reward.
Duluth has the best fire department of any city in
—VOTE FOR ORDINANCE "A."
GOVERNMENT ARMOR
PLANT NOW ASSURED
WASHINGTON, June 17.—By a vote
of 235 to 136 the house approved the
111,000,000 in the nayal appropriation
bill for the construction of a govern­
ment armor plate plant. This pro­
posal has been accepted by the sen­
ate.
The Bethlehem Steel company has
conducted an advertising campaign in
the public press against a government
owned plant.
Vote "Yes" on Ordinance "A" next
Monday—Help the firemen.
and boots with, but it is of little
avail against that mud. The daily
shower comes along, the shell-torn
ground becomes slimy, the horrible
odor increases, the surounding hil­
locks drain right down into the
trench, and the mud in the bottom
of the trench becomes a rotting soup,
infinitely horrible, infinitely foul.
"The climax of trench horrors is
reached when the order comes down
the line to attack.
"For weeks you have been cower­
ing in that infernal ditch, eating
there, sleeping there, never standing
fully erect, never daring to expose a
finger-tip. The edge of that ditch
has come to mean to you the limit of
the world. Beyond that edge there
is—nothing. Oblivion. The end.
Heady for Charge.
"Now comes the order that you
and your fellows are to climb over
that dreadful edge and rush for the
German trenches.
"That is the. moment at which I
have seen pitiful/scenes. Not all that
has happened in the .European
trenches at different times* Arisen the
attack order comes*- wil lever be told.
And I shall, not tell. it.
"The men take pictures of their
Wives and children, letters from
home, locks of .hair and little keep­
sakes fronts their Dockets'-and look at
them, kiss them unabashed.
"It may be the last moment of life.
There is never any cheering. The
thing is .•too.coM:^:mhiWI«w-nii»,
'i* the peeling. thatm $maa
fOB S001AE JUSTICE. ECONOMI^EEORM AND POLITICAL PBOGEESS.
DIJJUJTH AND SUPERIOR, JUKE 17,1916
1
Who wants to work twenty-four hours a day? I
How would you like it, Mr. Voter, to be separated
from your family day and night, year in and. year oiijt,
without any hope for reward over and above a meagfer
salary? I
How would you feel if you were forced ^to shoulder
upon your wife the full responsibility of rearing and
training your children? 1
What kind of a citizen would you grow to be if you
were cut off from all social and church intercourse with
your fellow citizens?
And yet, you are requiring the mien who protect, your
life and your property from fire to make these sacri­
fices, just to save you a few extra pennies in taxes.
The prayers of the wives and the children of fire­
men are going up to God this week, and they are peti­
tioning the people of Duluth to vote next Monday to let
them have their daddies at home at least part of the
time.
Have you ever sat in a fireman's home when a fire
alarm has been sounded? Oh! the suspense^. What
questions flash through the mind? If it is a big fire,
will the boys come out of it well and safely? The tele­
phone rings. Is it good or bad news? See the wife
tremble as she takes down the receiver. Watch her
face see it brighten. Thank God, the fire is out, and
all are back to the hall again.
At another time it is bad news. One of the boys Has
been hurt. All firemen's wives then give up their fiSill
measure of sympathy, for who knows the ill omen t^at
will hover about the next fire, and what home will be
stricken? So it is day and night with. the fireman
family always worry and -always fear.
The two-platoon, system will not remove the worry or
fear, but it will go a long ways towards bringing A little
more sunshine and happiness into the home' of every
fireman in Duluth.
SAN FRANCISCO. June 17.—The
Building Trades Council has passed the
following resolution:
''Resolved, That it is hereby ordered
that no member of any organization
affiliated with this council shall work
for any person, firm or corporation
who does not carry liability insurance
issued by the state or in an insurance
company whose financial standing is
approved by, the insurance commis­
sioner of the state of California."
Vote "Yes" on Ordinance "A" next
Monday—Help the firemen.
WAR IS THE GREATEST CRIME SAYS FRENCH SOLDIER WHO LEFT
own legs are carrying him up the
gallows.
Charge Terible.
After that- leap you see no more.
Whether you are wounded, killed
outright or lucky enough to get
through, it makes little difference. It
is all horrible. Whether you survive
or have that ghastly experience again
or not, the feeling is death. I have
not died, but I know what death is
like for six times I have attacked.
"When you reach the German
trenches, either you find it full of
dead—-from your artillery you had
no time to shoot while you were run­
ning forward—or else it will be oc­
cupied only by a few of the most
hopelessly frightened men you ever
saw. it is almost as bad to be at­
tacked, of course, as it is to attack
in either case death is sitting On your
shoulders.
If there are Germans yet alive you
rush up with the bayonet and take
them prisoner. They hold their hands
aloft.
4
vim^:hkve
Then you see the only happy
look you ever see in war—-the look in
the eyes of a man who has been
taken prisoner.^ Prisoners are happy
They .arjs through with the war.
........ All IVarit Peace. ,.......
"There is nothing harder than
leaving the hospital and returning to'
the Iront "When you have been sent?
to the., hospital you have told your
seijf, 'Maybe. I Wili Stay here ten days'
pr fwo7*feeksi And by that timb there
Minnesota. The reports of the fire insurance compan­
ies to the state prove it. In 1915 there were collected
in premiums in Duluth by the insurance companies
1591,466.77. The companies, paid out for fire losses
for the same period only $192,207.35, a loss ratio of
only 33 per cent.
Compare the loss ratio in Duluth with that of St.
Paul and Minneapolis. During 1915 the insurance com­
panies received as premiums in Minneapolis $1,912,
462.34. They paid but in the same year for losses
$1,320,145.35, or nearly 70 per cent of their receipts.
In St. Paul the premiums collected amounted to $1,039,
552.73, while the losses were $1,074,432.57, or 4 per
cent more than was colleetcd.
Here are figures that speak louder than editorials
and speeches. Duluth firemen are making Duluth a
safe city in which to live, and the only thing they are
asking the people in return for their splendid service is
that they be given 12 hours of partial freedom every
day.
As a matter of fact a fireman, under the two-platoon
system, will never be off duty. Even while he is away
from the fire-hall he will be subject to call in case of a
large fire.
It is a mistake to say that when the hours of duty
are reduced from 24 to 12 hours that it will require
twice as many firemen to operate the fire department.
It will take nothing of the kind. The fire department
is now organized and manned with sufficient men to
fight all large conflagrations. There is under this
system a terrific economic waste, for at "most fires only
a. few men are needed.
Under the two-platoon system it will require but
one-third more firemen than are now employed to pro­
perly and efficiently man all of the apparatus. If Or­
dinance "A" is adopted next Wednesday, it will increase
the labor cost of running the fire department for the
next year by $27,000. Surely the city commissioners
can find a way to raise this amount without seriously
inconveniencing a single Duluth tax payer.
I The two-platoon has been in operation in Oma­
ha for seven years. A year ago the National Association
of Fire Underwriters investigated the Omaha department
and pronounced it efficient. The two-platooa system is
also in operation in Seattle, Kansas City, Lincoln,
Yonkers, Youngstown, Butte, Berkeley and Great Falls.
Every consideration of justice and humanity de­
mand that the 24-hour system of continuous duty now
employed by the city in its fire department be absolutely
condemned as out of keeping with modern civilization.
There can be no reasonable, defense of a system that
divorces the rtiusb'and fatherc^wa^he wi^ ani
children for five days at a timW that deprives 'of
the privilege of divine worship and of the opportunity
of social intercourse with his fellow men.
In every city where the two-platoon system has been
tried the health of the men has been improved and the
efficiency of the department has been prompted.
The Labor World makes this final appeal to the
voters of Duluth. We ask that you vote "Yes" on
Ordinance "A," the one at the top of the ballot. Every
workingman is urged to extend his support to the fire­
men whose modest demands have been put up to the
voters of the city.
Let every citizen do his duty by the fireman on
Wednesday next.
—VOTE FOR ORDINANCE "A."— —VOTE FOR ORDINANCE "A."—
EMPLOYERS MUST
CARRY INSURANCE
Is What irou are'
MM
•M
HELPING TEACHERS
TO ORGANIZE UNIONS
SAN FRANCISCO. June 17.—The
Labor Council has instructed its or­
ganizing committee to give all possible
aid to public school teachers in this
city in their effort to form -a union
and affiliate to the American Federa­
tion of Teachefs.
Members, of the municipal fire de­
partment are awakening to the ad­
vantages of unionism and the Labor
Council's committee will assist them,
also*
Vote "Yes" on Ordinance "A" next
Monday—Help the firemen.
the war started, so, also, ybu do not
know when it may end, or why. All
is out of sight.
"But the war hos not ended and
the order comes for you to join the
regiment.
"For this return to the trench of
death the French soldiers have in­
vented a word that shows how they
feel about it. When Christ was ied
to be crucified, and knew what tor-,
ture he was facing, the mountain up
which they -led Him was Calvary.
Trenches Called "Calvary."
"That is the Word that. Stands for
the act of marching into Certain, sure
agony and that is what the French
soldier calls it when he returns to the
front from the hospital. It IS called
"Calvaire."
"Four times I underwent Calvaire.'
The fourth time was worse than the
first and the fifth—the fifth did hot
happen.
"I had been sent back to thelfront
in the Argqnne region. We Were be­
ing bombarded by the great- German
guns, throwing huge shells^ «nd dne
of these struck the ground not twfent'y
feet in front of the trench directly
opposite me.. Vs
"All I heard.was an inedible roar
and: shock. In that. same -instant I
knew I was alive, and- th^Hhit I
was dead for I was buried in the
ground.
Bqrieq -v .''.'a
"The blood rushed to my, hiad and
I fai&ted. I could not br*afhe.~
—VOTE FOR ORDINANCE "A"—
Coal Price Increase? Far Exceed
Advances In Wages of the
Employes.
COMPANIES ARE SAID
TO USE SUBTERFUGE
Reading Corporation Frankly
Admits Public Must Help Meet
Hold Up Its Profits.
SPRINGFIELD, Mass., June 17.—
The Springfield Republican writes:
The expected has happened in the
announcement of increased wholesale
prices of hard coal for next winter's
use by one of the most important of
the coal producing companies of
Pennsylvania. The increase will be
passed along until it is paid finally
by the 'consumer. The Reading com­
pany which led off in this business of
raising prices, makes a point of frank­
ness with the public for it declares
that the advanced prices are due to
the increase in miners' wages,
amounting in. the aggregate to some
$10,000,000 a year, which was recent­
ly granted by the coal companies in
response to the demand of the United
Mine Workers' union.
More Than Cover Wages.
The first question to be asked Is
whether these advanced prices of coal
cover simply the increased wages. The
coal companies have a nasty record
for advancing prices much more than
is required to meet their increased
wage payments. Nothing could be
more despicably mean than such a
practice.
It seems like an attempt to penalize
consumers for not taking more
strongly the side of the companies in
wage contests, and, at the same time
the owners of the coal mines fatten up
their profits. To illustrate wliat is
meant one may quote the following
from the report of an investigation
by the United States bureau of labor:
Following the agreement of May
20, 1912, the wholesale price of an
thrcfte cpal was advanced by the min
accompanies aboujt 25.,cents per tojv
when sises weretakeil into: considv
eration. The advance in miners*
wages under, the above agreement and
the increase in wages granted the men
not specifically covered by the agree­
ment was equivalent to an increase of
between 8 and 10 cents per ton in
the cost of labor, or an average in­
crease of about, nine cents per ton for
the anthracite region as a whole. De­
ducting this increase in labor cost
from the increase in the selling price
per ton, it will be seen that the prices
realized by the coal mining-companies
were increased about 16 per cent per
ton more than was required by the
new scale of wages alone. (House
document 1442, page 33.)
Use Subterfuge.
The companies in short, took ad­
vantage of the advance in wages made
in 1,912 to increase their own earnings
by about $12,000,000 a year. It would
1
appear, therefore, that whenever the
miners get higher wages, the jcqm
panies get higher profits, and .What
the consumers get needs no diagram
to .explain.
The .prospect now. is that the fed­
eral trade comirlission will be -com­
pelled to Investigate advances in the
prices of hard -coal .Ostensibly based
upon the recont increase in wages.
Investigation can accomplish nothing
except furnish publicity for the. glar­
ing abuse by the coal producers of
their monopolistic power, but if the
public gets nothing else, besides the
higher prices, it might as well get the
facts,
bottom of the trench—alive, It
seemed that I had simply been caught
beneath the trench wall as it daved
in, and buried. The shell had not
struck me. My feet had been left
projecting up into the air, and my
comrades had pulled me out.
"The worst was the shock.: I was
very weak and sick. But they did not.
give me hospital-orders /every man
ws needed in the trench,for. an at­
tack was expected.
"And less than a week later- the
Same thing happened again. A shell
came, caved in the bank, and once
again I was buried in the ground.
Thought He Was Twmuhv
"Try having three great wagon
loads of dirt suddenly flung on top of
you by an explosion. My nervous sys­
tem was wrecked. I thought myself
insane.
"They sent me-to the rear, more
dead than alive, and much. bf. the
time I was out of my headC
-'How it happened that my fifth:
'Calvait-e' never happened I shall-not
relate. There would be others i^
volyed- besides myself.'
.?'.'•rtn tell is,- that, after two
of light and starvation: I foohd'
myself oyer the southern border^ of
France, with' ho money and but little
clothing, sick, walking toward"- the1
Pyrenees Mountains, which were -cov»
ered With the freezing snow of eatly
winter. -A'
id/
waking
most effective
the workers tt
|||plWn?|":er^t of the workers. It will not
dominated by the so-called to*
ectuals or butters-in.—Gompers.
E
TWO CENTS.
—VOTE FOR ORDINANCE "A'W
Deposits In United States Show
Tremendous Increase of Owg
Two Billion In Year.
NEW CURRENCY LAW
PROVED BIG SUCCESS
Wage Earners and Farmers Shunt
In General Prosperity, Says
Secretary McAdoo.
Secretary McAdoo, in a speech of
unusual power and significance, de
livered at Raleigh, N. C., recently
presented incontrovertible 'evidence
of the country's prosperity and sta
bility, as the result of measures
adopted by the Democratic adminis
tration. When the country was on 1
the verge of appalling panic, at the
outbreak of the European war in
1914, it was, he said, the decisive and
adequate measures taken by the gov­
ernment at Washington that pre
vented this panic and laid a secure J"
foundation for the great prosperity
we now enjoy.
"What a contrast this is,'* said the
secretary, "to the ineffectiveness -of
the Republican administration at
Washington during the panic of 1907, I
-which left the country prostrate fori,
many, ears and brought immeasur*
able disaster upon the American peo- 1"
pie."
Reserve Act Leading Factor.
A leading factor in all this has
been the Federal Reserve Act^
"which is now generally conceded to
be the most constructive measure?
placed upon our statute books in. a^
half century." Continuing, the sec
retary said: 4*
"Nothing is more indicative of th*
amazing growth of the country tha,ac
the condition of the banks. The
comptroller of the currency states
that in March, 1916, the. resources of.
the national banks amounted to $13,•
838,000,000, exceeding by $370,
000,000 the greatest resources ever?-" '5
shown in the history of the National- -j
banking system. The resources of th«:
National banks were $2,271,000,0001
greater In March, 1916, than in
March, 1915.
v."This
exceeds, jthft
thisentire .resources of {he £teichs
bank of Germany, as reported -ill
February, 1016.
"The. aggregate resources of th4
National banks of ihe United States
now exceed by approximately $3,000,
000,000 the combined resources of
the Bank of England, tho Bank of
France, the Bank of Russia, the
"Reichsbank of Germany, the Bank oif
the Netherlnds, the Swiss. National
Bank and the Bank of Japanr" The
total deposits of the National- banks
in March, 1916, amounted to $10^
790,000,000, an increase in three
months of $411,000,000, and an in­
crease over March, 1915, (one yeari"
of $2,198,000,000.
"These figures are so prodigious as
to be almost unbelievable. They re--'
fleet infallibly the degree of ..pros-,
perity as widei and .deep as It.is
amazinz and gratifying. One cah not-'
speak of this record without superla­
tives. Even the infallible and sancti­
fied Republican party could not have
done better."
AH Share in Prosperity.' a
The secretary pointed out thai
prosperity is permeating every cor­
ner of the country and every class
of .the-American, people. Labor is
employed throughout the land at the
highest wages ever known. The din-,
ner pail is overflowing. The farmers•
of the United States "never in their:
history have enjoyed such splendid--'
rewards for their toil.
"The Rural Credits' Bill," he said*
Continued An Page 3.
home. The other particulars I shall
not reveal..
"But I shall say this—and I say it
with all the -sincerity of a man, who
is now undergoing criticisms front
those, who. know nothing of .what'they
are saying:
"War is the greatest crime. Mur­
der is but one", man's death war is
murder over and.Over again.
Patriotism No Justification.
"There is' no word that cart make
war right. The word patriotism does
not make it right That idea of patri
otism is lie. I have shouted for
France and I. have fought for France,
and while' I was fighting I did ray
best, and none accused me of cow­
ardice. But the things France asked
me to do for her are wrong. Eter
nally and always wrong.
"And -if any believe that I have
presented things wrongly, or that my*
attitude is exceptional, my answer Jsj
this: Go over to the trenches and
tor .yourself.
"You- will find Uiioigs as I_ Jhaya
'suggested
vand
you'Wil find', not :MS
the occasional soldiers, but -the.epjfoir"
4Tmy fuH of soldiers talking"as do.^
-These thought, are Jn every man^vfa
mind Xhave been of* the soldiers^
and Iknow
'tViiat are we. here for? Wh#
we killlrig the Germans What rigl
Jhaa- the,v government, to-
Muiwe^ io that
I? g&ih
A*
