N 'h "Let The Herald
-hep fnane your vacatiol
-helhIn el a plae toSee the puzzle announcenent
g o t blmor T h e e t orr o . to ash p rices the
nal Reeort Number. mued to- from $3 to $40 &wait the
Morrow, is Invaluabli in help- sles n fteepie
ing to solvers One of these prIze
PMan TH'R ADPay for Your Vacation
NO. 3529. WEATE-SHOWEs. WASHINGTON. D. C., SATURDAY. JUNE 17. 1916. ONE CENT.
SUFFRAGE FAVORED BY
DEMOCRATS AFTER ROW;
CONVENTION IS CLOSED
But Women Are Dissatisfied With Mild
Declaration in Platform and Will
Battle Against Party.
MEXICAN PLANK STARTS FIGHT
Cov. Ferguson, of Texas, Urges Intervention, but Plea Is ir
Vain-National Committee Disgruntled Over
Appointment of Vance McCormick.
By JAMES J. MONTAGUE.
(International News Service.)
St. Louis. Mo., June 16.-When the national Democratic convention ad
fourned sine die at 3:12 o'clock this afternoon, three sharp dissensions ha<
broken the harmony that had hitherto prevailed.
The first and second of these were rows over the suffrage plank an(
the plank relating to Mexico. The suffrage fight was carried to the floo
of the convention. The pro-suffragists of the convention won it.
But their plank, which provides for enfranchisement of women by States
fell far short of the hopes of the suffragists assembled here.
Tonight a great meeting of protest was held, presided over by Mrs. Carrie
Chapman Catt, and plans are already under way for a fight against the party
at the November polls in the suffrage States.
Mexican Plank Row.
The Mexican plank row occurred in the I
committee on resolutions which spent CZAR DRIV ES
the entire night drafting the platform
Gov. Fergucn. of Tema.. insisted savage- NEAR KO V EL
ly that the present oc-upation of Mexico
by American troops constituted inter
vention. He said it was folly to dodge Russians Attempt to Cross
the issue and not demand intervention.
But the will of the President prevailed- Stokhod and Open Way
There was no demand for intervention on
the plank that came out of the commit- to Railroad Center.
tee.
The third and most rancorous row took
place in the national committee and was FRENCH REPEL DOUBLE
still in full swing tonight Annoyed at ASSAULTS NEAR VERDUN
the President's naming of Vance Mc
Cormick. who is not a member of the (By the sun News Service.)
committee, as its chairman, the mern- London. June 16.-The Russian war of
bers sputtered and protested all day long lice today announced the capture of 10
and adjourned until evening In an ef- officers and doctors, and 14.000 men yes
fort to throw off the yoke they say Wil- terday. This brings the total number o
som has imposed upon tbem, prisoners taken in Gen. Brusilof's of
Bryan Is Accused. fensive. as officially reported. up to 152.636
The resolutions committee quarrel in- Tonight's official Russian war office
fested the corridors of the Jefferson with statement says fighting continues on th<
discord when the members leaked out of whole front extending from northern
the comrhittee room and told their Volhynia to the Rumanian border.
troubles. Vienna ofncially asserted tonight tha
Bryan was ac7used covertly of trying Russian cavalry south of the Dnelster
to start somethin,- but proved his Inno- (in the Bukowina) was repulsed, tha
cence. Aside from slamming interventin Pightinir in in progress on the whole fron
in his speech. he took no part in the in Voihnla A particularly violent bat
discord- tle appears to be raging in the region
Todays session lasted from 11 oclock -half way hetween the fortress of Rovno
until 3.1. The platform was the only and Kovel. Here the Russians are try
business. Had any one called for a ing to cross the river Stokhod. whici
quorum, the leaders would have been crosses the Rovno-Kovel railway line a
serious:y embarrassed, for half the dele- 'a pcint twenty-two miles southeast o
gates were already speeding homeward. Kovei.
Tonight, save for its local faithful, St. The Austrian war office declares these
Louis is empty of Democrats attempts were frustrated. It is In this
A series of violent thunderstorms area that the bulk of the German rein
washed the place clear of politics and forcements has joined the Austrians. evi
other things at noon. dently determined to save Kovel fron
capture, as that important railway in
tersection would place Gen. Brusiloff It
complete control of the southern railwas
system, and at the same time endanger
Sthe German right flank.
German Attacks Fail.
Paris. June 16.-Two attacks were made
by the Germans last night on the east
aide of the Meuse. in the Verdun region,
one against the Thlpumont farm sector
f o and the other against the French trencheb
on the southern edge of the Bois de Is
Cailette southeast of Fort Douaumont
Bote a attacks failed.
The movement against the Tiaumon
The farm sector began at 6 o'clock. was di
nagainst the French front from 1ill
Re rl where the Germans lreaty had
nfoothold, to Hill 3M, south of the farm
oThe assault was repeated time afte
otime, but as often was broken down b
--of The Washington Herald-a. the French infantry and mittrailleuse fire.
lstprated n supplrig~ detailed in- 'MOST BEAUIrIU WOMA
formation concerning the best
summer Resorts, together withcs re
information regarding rates at ho
tels, ways to go. etc.. i an added
feature to (y the Sn News Sene eee.)
w York, June -Though proclaimed
Tom orrow 's bymany artiss as one of three most
-d.beautiful women in the world. p.
--ne-C ent Sund Fernando Reci Riabouchnky. co
plained In the Supreme Court today thai
unkowntoase heeorde.
-whichL~ alsocnans sel e thcopan-a wntelvefhe
hubadeNchs Ataboek sky ur
An O rtunty caig agnt f-Tor tRuan gern-ad
To ecby3 RhebGerman aky nIdt on the s
Vacaton M ney sivore, ifth Mese aid today afer regaon
ine taat the haund arm ecto
-anthe facintin pulefor an rouete aga ns the maren t r se
Nersd rederswit cas pries on theaury,194 eroeRlBociskyl
wailletted othe Russian Dioaotc
-end al tha you et it any Borth atacs faile od. adwaty
five-ent Sndaynewspper.The d eent aganttherPal Tisaumon1
-cm~ k~farm of begRusaan iral o'ncl.wad
recedegansttheFrnchfrot romHi
~ nag au News. here June IGermn areekay ads
-And An he New.of Afoothobe d tosee tol 33 0, so the fresm
ofThe essalwaspate matimlla at
tim btshte was roke don-b
thgFenhantry and mtraylHeur fore
-...essygs~e as Y~ ~(th ther311 turdews anrvice.
by manyLartists as oneeof three mos
plained. in th Suprem Countda tat
another nd a-les
GERMANS ON TOP
BUT SEEK PEACE,
STATES HOLlWEG
Chancellor Tells Reichstag
Nation Has Never Been So
Strong Since War Began.
R EVIE WS ADVANTAGES
Declares Empire Has Gained
Steadily Since First Offers
of Peace Were Made.
REGRETS REBUFFS BY ENEMY
Says Teutons Must Continue Fighting
Until Decisive Victory
Is Won.
0By the International News Servile.
Berlin, via Sayville wireless, June
it.-Dr. von Bethmann-Hollweg, the
Imperial Chancellor. addressed the
Reichstag this afternoon on the ques
:ion of peace, de, laring that Germany'
position has never been so strong
since the war began.
The chancellor's speech came unex
pectedly during the third reading o:
the budget.
"Six months ago I first spoke ot our
readiness for peace," said Dr. vor
Bethmann-Hollweg. "hasing my re
marks upon the military situation an
it existed then. I could do this confn
I dent that the sItuataon created by the
war would develop :till further to our
advantage. Events have justifle
this confidence. We have made furth
er progress and we are now stronger
on all fronts than ever before."
Germany Still Seeks Peace.
The chancellor declared that Ger
many would neglect nothing whic'
might shorten the war.
"If I should say we are now read)
for peace, despite the strength of our
position, there would be no reason t<
regret the words. although our offer
previously made had no success with
our enemies." said Dr. von Bethmann
Hollweg. "During the critical days is
July. 1914, evr tatesmea bad the
duty before God, before his country.
and before his own conscience to pre.
serve an honorable pence. In the
same fashion we, after successful de
fense. will neglect nothing which
might shorten the terrible sufferings
in the European conflagration'
Dr. von Bethmann-Htollweg recalled
an interview he had given to Ameri
can journalists recently in which he
declared that peace negotiations could
only be undertaken by responsible
statensmen of belligerent countries and
would have to be conducted on the
basis of the "war map."
Will Continue Fighting.
This statement indicated that Ger
many would not accept peace overtures
coming from a neutral nation.
"This proposition was rejected by
our enemies, who refused to recognize
the war map.' said the chancellor.
"They hope to be able to change that
map. In the meantime the war map
has undergone other changes, but all
to our advantage. We have entered
into that map the capitulation of the
English army at Ket-el-Amar and
French defeats nt Verdun, as well as
the failure of the Russian offensive
and the powerful advantage of our
ally (Austria) against Italy and the
increased strength of our lines at Ba
loniki.
"We must and will continue fighting
until decisive victory is won. We
thought it our duty to open the road
for peace, but we were rebuffed by
the enemy with scorn and disdain."
Local "Suffs" Rap
Democratic Plank
Miss Lucy Burns Says Party
Must Act, Not
Talk.
Suffragists in Washington expressed
frank contempt of the suffrage plank in
the Democratic platform.
"The Congressirnal Union is not pri
marily interested in what the Democrats
say in theIr platform." said MIss Lucy
Burns. vice chaIrman of the U'nion, at
headquarters yesterday. "We are inter
ested in what the Democrats do in Con
gress.
'The most perfect plank would not
alter the fact that the Federal suffrage
amendment is before a Democratic Con
gress, and that the Democrats have so
far refused to pass it on to the State
legislatures for ratification.
'However, this Congress has still a
manths or two to live, and it is on the
basis of the completed r'ecord of Con
gress that suffragists will act next No.
vember."
Quake Shake San Marino.
IRome, June 16.-Violent earthquakes
occurred in the republic 'of .San Ifarino
and the provinces of Rimini and Forli
today. The inhabitants were panic
stricken, but the daae reported was
CITIZENS OF JUAREZ ARM
FOR WAR WITH AMERICANS
(B. the International News -lervile.)
El Paso, Tex., June 16.-Juarez citizens received rifles tonight.
More than a thousand persons were summoned to the general barracks
and equipped to fight the American soldiers.
The distribution of rifles took place upon invitation and under su*
pervision of the commanding officer of the Juarez garrison. Gen. Fran
cisco Gonzales. He acted, so far as it could be learned, upon direct
instructions from Gen. Jacinto Trevino. commander of the north. Tre
vino's instructions, it is also understood, came directly from War Min.
ister Obregon.
"Jack Blank" Writes Story
Of How He Lost Memory;
May Undergo Operation
"Jack Blank," who was foutid nude Ii The few things "Jack" is able to re
the swamp outside Augusta. Ga., last member about himself he has written
winter, unable to tell his name or any- exclusively for The Washington Herald.
thing about himself, and who came to .'best seller" mystery story was
Washington with W. E. Trowbridge, a ever more strange than the tale of how
wealthy Augusta merchant, yesterday. "Jack" lost his memory. He thinks
seeking some clue that would help him he was beaten by thugs, who robbed
identify himself. plans going to Baltimore him of $150 and left him for dead, after
today to submit to an examinatic by removing every possible mark of iden
surgeons of Johns Hopkins. tification from his clothing. But he
An X-ray photograph of his head has does not know how any one knew he
shown two depressions of his skull, had the money. He was in a strange
caused. it is believed, by blows from a city for the first time, carried his
sandhag. He hopes that an operation money, with the exception of a few
may relieve the pressure on his brain coins in small change. in a secret
and give him back his memory. pocket, and neither saw any one he
Should the John's Hopkins surgeons knew nor spoke to any strangers. No
fai} him. Mr. Trowbridge olasu taking his one can be found who saw him leave
charge to Bangor, Me.. where "Jack Wilmington, N. C. where his memory
Ilank" believes he once lived, and to the ends. despite the fact that it is com
Philips Exeter Academy. which "Jack"
thinks he attended eight years ago. rf0_rtt T ED ON PAGE TWO.
Hughes Back in Capital;
Pleased With First Trip
Charles E. Hughes. the Republican crowd down the platform from the Con
nominee, returned here at 6:45 oelock gresslonal Limited. A uniformed guard.
yesterday evening, mashijiPs with his however. stepped forward to offer his!
Brst campaign trp wy will de- respects and congratulations. Mr. Hughes
voted to apisferengee *11k R006est grIpped his hand eendially and before
leaders here sad tomorrow Mr. es long the station master, Is assistants.
will again return to New York. several conductors and others had pushed
Asked for an opinion on the Demo- their way through the crowd to shake
cratic platform. Mr. Hughes said he did hands.
not wish to make any comment, but the I Mr. Hughes looked as fit as the pro
fact that he fell asleep after beginning ierbial fiddle and showed no effects of
to read It on the train might, perhaps, the sustained work and late hours he
he construed as significant. After his4 has been putting in since big nomination
nap Mr. Hughes had dinrer alone. Ile The nominee expects to have a buey
indicated he would not comment on po- time today. Mr. Hughes said he pre
litical issues until his notification of ferred not to say in advance with shom
nomination, which will be early In Julv. he would confer before leaving tumor- f
tow night. It is understood. howe.
Few persons at 1rion Station recog- that several Senators and t'ongresmen
nized the nominee as he came with the will be among his callers.
Woman's Party, Jilted, Will
Wage War on Democrats
By W. C. I. HALLOWELL. t the last for the Federal amendmcnt
linternational News Service.) p y hel an all night vigil at the
St. Louis. Mo., June 16-The Woman's door of the resolutions committee room.!
Party prepared today to wage relkntles and -went to bed at q a. m. only after
war upon the Democrats next November learning that ther was no chanc lor
unless the Democratic Congress will anything better than 'Presiden Ilson,:
promise the passage by Congress of the plank.' which stands in the platform
resolution submitting to the States the follows
Anthony amendment to the Constitution "We recommend the extension of suf
of the United States granting franchise frage to the women of the country by
to women on equal terms with men. the States, upon equal terms with men.'
Hours before the platform was read Even the Equal National Suffrage As
today leaders of the new organization of sociation was disappointed, though as at'
enfranchised women were laying plans Chicago It had offered a plank merely In-1
for attacking not only the Wilson and dorsing votes for women in general
Marshall ticket, but every Democratic terms. That went by the board. 4 to :0.
candidate for House and Senate who 'rho Woman's Party plank was splinter
raises his head in the twelve States ed. 40 to 4.
where women vote. And there are Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, prcsident ofli
ninety-one electoral votes in those the National Association, declared the
plank adopted van inferior both to the
Stats. fepublicans and Progressives' expres
Lobbyists of the Woman's Party foudht sions on the subject.
Saw Orpet Experiment With
Poison Just Before Tragedy i
(By the International News ersee.) tard Orpet said to the gardener Fe
Waukegan, Ills.. June 16-Startling evi- you had It."
dence that Will Orpet wag experimenting This evidence against onPet. never be
with cyanide of potassium six weeks be- fore made public, was laid before the
fore Marion Lambert died in his preh- court late this afternoon, at the conclusion
ence from the effects of that poison was of the Young coller women tns trial
producedht inncourthetbday, murtoer.
The canidewas n a geenhose ho Maron' a rty mothnk was Fprner
scholgrl' dethOrpt ater ameto how hata Ascarionslih eartedth
[tpeclogad agree ntean hapute the vneryime wohe toshe
estae, nd rdeed hm t thow heRepublhcan fatal trys ioreis epres
Loyai fteWoa' at fought ios. Month , set. ,ha eerbe
"Srgtthtw o Orpet uExp"E-ohr hnhyalher t lie.
oison JtBfor Dnis eera Traedy
WaeanAno, I. un 16.-tart wing -ohdn Jue1.-t." ofc h.
dence that Wal Orpet waf expicaebntng Thedee folginstia Oreponvr bo
with crosside oand ix iees pefratiode bic the BiisIds befrithe
souteo SMaon Labert died Gray ihis " pr- ortetion ofteon, aithe colusin
etcen the Uited Sftate rosn as rehed onwclegew atudent's tria for
The yande as n agrenhose neMarSeion wamere mther eras.s ern
crosed' fthervr twas mopringendnct. trenheal toda. Sheanyaldtondicoumnove
edhthe thepicsie wer soetiatmetheuthed tor ogdwb stin av and
Failingct Locgand, a tgardene or gth an.rdg hapyeur the ery tim whener.
caie oaaty. ohd take i "Odn La itria whe aihad ocuned te
Deam enpe Maj. Gray whsegel-rsladofUCsaaaptured to gund
lion tono Tex d. June 16.Foloin Loand .eonJue 1.-h wro, a e
ONE STEP MORE SOUTH
OF BORDER MEANS WAR,
DECLARES GEN. TREVINO
Ultimatum to Gen. Pershing Says Farther
Advance of U. S. Troops Will Be
Regarded as Hostile.
PERSHING READY TO MARCH ON
Wilson Note, Sharp in Tone, Probably Will Be Sent Today
to Carranza, Firmly Refusing to Withdraw
Soldiers from Mexico.
(ay the Intermattomal News SerVice.)
El Paso, Tex., June 16.-Mexican bandits crossed the border
thirteen miles east of El Paso this afternoon and raided the manl town
of Noria, N. Mex. The sheriff at Noria has reported to Gen. Bell that
one Mexican was killed. There were no American casnalties.
'Ily vUm News Servce.)
El Paso. Tex.. June 16.-Gen. Trevino. at Chihuahua, has issued an
ultimatum to Gen. Pershing, informing the latter that if American troops
move one step farther south or west, it wIll be regarded as an act of hos
tility and treated as such.
It is understood here that Trevino is acting on instructions direct from
Carranza.
Although official confirmation of the report is lacking at both the State
and War Departments, officals here are apprehersie. Trevino i, re
garded is the ablest of Carranza's generals, and one w.ho is entirely in the
confidence of the de facto government.
Persbing Ready to Advanee.
U. S. CLERKS 7-1
govrnmer.* to e 1 - r
TAKE HEART Pee:OrsIs 4 egrs t0
Democratic Platform Retire-- n bt
P -Carranzis' s. *i Is afr'*f I
ment Promise Cause a mlaI
1- P-,r-,4 3n t)hat -'r i.
for Rejoicing. be necessa-. ary tirers ca -
United S'ates to prea-e Mm
CHANCE FOR CONGRESSIONAL for a thorough carmrairer.:n ex o T
ACTION SEEMS BRIG ER " e t" ' "
entire National iard, and
call fervertr
By JOSEPH P. ANNIN%. !enee Sharp In
"Ar equitable rctirerment law prov-id:rg Th. ,--na
ror the superannuated and disabled emr- Yr -'nr r.7.
ploes of the civil service ' Is now one a
)f the authentcated ledges of the Demo- - ,
-ratic party.
The publication vesredray afternoon of
this subplank in the platform A,! ;.cd a! rt i:rt- V,
St. Louis brought the brichte' ray of 1cre- ,
hope yet offered those w ho ha' e for , ars
been working fo- simple juet - for th
ards of Uncle Sam's fai!hful j serTa-' in A
lere and elsewhere It wYl be : :g
ial for renewed efforts to lotain m a. p
irtion from Congress at th:s sess a
It Is regarded as probable tha7 the
Ieclaration will result at least in a favor- :v re'
ible report on the Pomeron 1:. n in ar
he Serate Committee, whieh calls for a asl I h" Perajir.g
ontributory retiremer.t Pvetr-m. r)n ca- 5 h, -as, exar!nP! -
or Pomerene is chairman of the commt- i-. , t
ee and was a member of the committee it I n'aIs R seere ratuke f,
>n resolutions at St. Louis Ie be!:oveS irtrrra-- 5 -nate used I the 'at
his bill wi:l be reported favorably ranz3 comnr-unication
The wording of the plank, which basee
ts advocacy of retirement s-temn upon
'' "'"a t;:"T. R. Has Pleurisy;
he hope of "a higher standard of _e .Rf-sP eu iy
'ciency." Indicates that a more deter
'nired fight than ever will be made for R Not Seriously Ill
straight pension plan. Advocates of civi!
tervice pensions who have suppo-ted a
ontrlbutory plan. have done so In the Returns to Oyster Bay Today.
)elief that no hope existsd for a fal-e
ystem. However, as the plank commits Senator Crane's Visit Re
he party to the proposition that super
innuated employes should be retired to garue as Signiicant.
,romote efficiency. it commits the parts
o a retirement system that wi!! no, (By the tan Newu serice.)
,enalize the employes for the efficien-y Ne- York. Jure :t--ol Pooseve't
if the governmenta! machinery. s suffer:rg f-om an atia k cf pleurtsy.
Just how much weight the platform Th.s was rnad. kr-own this ever:rg
leclaration will have with the Demo- after three doctors had been in consul
:ratic majority ln Congress is, of course ta!:rn late in The afternoon at the
problematical. It will be remerbered Hotel Langdon. where tle Coletel has
hat while the Southern delegates to th, beer a :rco -e ejdien :1res
onvention were necessarilv in the mi- overo-k 1- on Ve'resday
tority, the South row is, ard in all pro-i The ntis-k IF not seroUS A.1 three
ibility will remaln. in the saddle as long of the dorto7S agreo Upon that and
is the Democratic party controls Con- the o !hnsof. tA'ktte To rr
rress. However, the platform declara- ers in the I'hbv of the ho!. th:s
ion will give the movement a status and evenrr, assured t'-em -ha. was but
>restige it never before commanded. and a alight attack. ie looked we
bovernment clerka in Washcgton are enough
ubilant over Its inclusion in the plat- He nia he Wotd rsetiot to Othree
orm. Say tomorr- .fterron
vSenator V s iutraa- rare t-s te
AUSTRAJ DRVE F~lS a Clght attack. Tie sooted wr.
ubaiant ove~ i tcson the pat- CrHe.h aid h oudrms ofn te o r
Plateau. tint~ c0omrtte that =11 forr-ay ad
Rome Jue 1.-Temenouseffrtsdress Justice Hughes :n a few days.
nade by masses of Austro-Hungarian isereerardedfar thteo m~os eltevi-l
roops, about 18,000 In number, to break dnetu a htClRoeatw!
hrough the Italian center on the Aslago fol wtlcoen barms.ote -ub~a
ilateau failed completely, according to fl ihoe rs
h-ar ofice reports made public here to- Shift Troop to Roumania.
lay. The Austrians left great piles of Pai.Jn IC-e rpot tm
lead upon the field.
Athers are tha h ugrasa- ih
Similar attacks. hardly- less violent in Ihttelrg'a, r ih
drawing the majority of their forces
haracter. although on a smaller scale, from the Saloniki front to the Roumanlan
it various points along the ItalIan front, frontier. The explanation ads anced :s
>articularly In the IAgarina Valley, at the poasible effects of the Rassian drlv.
hie western end of the tine. were equally i uti pnRuaa
'ruitlee. ____ ____Ne-w Zealand Has Surplus.
Christ Church. June lf --The New Zea
Fran01s aosepn meported Dead. land budget shows a suJrplus of 510i00 (W.
London. June 1.-The death of Em.. A 560.000,00 loan, mostly internal, Is pro
seror Francis Joaeph is again reported posed________
ty a neutral who has just returned from gao., te Mr.er Frry,, s1.ss Uartie.
inenna. ThIs traveler further asserts berg, O1o. Berkeley sprIngs, eaLee
bat the embalmed body of the monarch kItinr and hand tur m 's
ias been shown to crow ds o patriotic day. June 15. including principal St.
wmelfan. tins Merpoia.-anh-Ay
