BRING IN YOUR WANT
AD COPY BEFORE 6 P. M.
Early Delivery of Sunday, Wanl Ads In
sures Correct Classification
H6th YEAR
ifJidnuouft QTimes
ALL SORTS OF ADS FOR
ALL SORTS OF PEOPLE
See Times-Dispatch Want Pages for a
Service of Unequalled Yaluc
VOM'MK ??
XOIHKK 168
RICHMOND, VA., SATURDAY, JUNE 17, 1916.?TWELVE PAGES
?;kath ku ?UNSETTLED
Would Be Considered Hos
tile Aet and Signal to Com
mence Warfare.
AMERICAN COMMANDER
GETS WORD FROM TREVINO
Head of Army of North Acts on
Specific Instructions From
Carranza.
rAT'SES XO fllAXGK IX ORDKRS
^Monal Guardsmon May I If Orfforrrl
to I'.onlrr if Story N
f'oiiliinu'd,
CHIHL'Airi'A i'ITV, MEXICO. June
^ r,'nilra! .l.'<rinto Trevitio, com
manding fh<* ?"arranza army of th?*
north, to-day advised O .? tl *? r;t j Por*h
'?g. American expeditionary com
mander. that any moveiiicnt of Ameri
can troops from thei.- |,res. :,t Isto
the south. oast or west woiiM ?,o con
sidered a host -,!?? a.-t and n signal to
commence warfare 'Jencr.il Trevino
acted upon specific ins'i-ii'ticns from
Carranza.
TIIUKAT \\ II.I. CAI S|.; NO , |IA\,.K.
? V (AMIMII.V V ?. \ I \ v*i' || \ \ Iiu.s
WASHINGTON. .tune K,.?There were
no indications li? r ?? to-night that the
administration'.1- determination to con
tinue the campaign against the bandits
in Mexico would in any wav be altered
by General Trc vino s reported throat
to begin hostilities if the American
troops move from their prevent posi
tions in any dirt-'-?; m ?-x?-?-j.t toward
the border.
General Pershing- oiders authorize
him to move |t) dite.tion he finds
necessary. Secretary Baker is in St.
Louis. but the g.-iw-!..l impression pre
vailed that these ?? t?1 ?? r - would r.ot be
changed.
There is no ff.tr ?.f an mi.Mediate
clash, however. f..r otij. ials believe
General Pershing would avoid taking
any steps that might lead t.? serious
consequences until he had communi
cated with Washington Late to-night
the War Lfenirtment hail r.o word from
him or any other sour. ?? to confirm the
report of General Trevino's action
Kece.it troop movements In Chihua
hua State have !i?d officials h> r?- ?o
feai that the de fa to commanders
were preparing f<>r some hostile move
The Mex'can for. ts now ..re distrib
uted In detachments of considerable
strength on two lines;, converging from
points near the bor?b.r. and west
of Generr 1 Pershing's h. <? and meeting
at a po'r.t south of .1 rie)d base r,r
Namiqu'pa. The t i.as been to
.n close t he .vI:.-1: .1 :i ?: ? > ? j ? m ;i iz 1 ?
par.tic \
DISPOSITION OK KOItl IIS O N K
OK MASKS OK SI *>1* If I O.N
This disposition of ("arr.'inia .< forces
has been oi:<- <>f the bases ?>{ suspicion
here as to his friendly Intent. While
the Mexicans are so positioned, officials
declare they cannot be in any good
faith conducting a campaign against
bandits. The breaking up of these
forces in small parties is one of the
conditions which would h- demanded
by the Ignited ;.?es before the Amer
ican expeditious would be r*i tiled
Army officers have no fears for the
safety of General Pershing's forces,
110 matter what develops The expe
dition is amply supplied, and General
Pershing recently inspected in person
the disposition of his troops. The
strategic points at the base camps and
along the line of communication are
protected by intrep.chments
The report of- General Trevino's ac
tion gave rise to renewed speculation
as to the course to be taken by Presi
dent Wilson to m:'ke certain the safety
of the border The entire National
Guard has been under waiting orders,
in effect, for several weeks, and some
officials thought it possible a strong
force of guardsmen would be promptly
ordered to the border if official dis
patches confirmed the <"hihuahua City
story.
THOOPS AT KI. PASO
HEI.IJ \ S I>It AH.MS
EL PASO, June It",.?All America!
troops stationed in El Paso and its
environs were ordered to quarters to
night, to b* held undo, arms until
further notice. The orders followed
orders to military quarters that pla
cards printed in Spanish had been
posted in Juarez instructing citizens to
gather at designated points daily to
recelvei military instructions, that they
may be prepared to lepel possible in
vasion. The notice was signed by
Jesus Valves, a private citizen, who
said he wished hi.- people to be pre
pared in the event of a break with the
I'nlted States."
A statement issued to-day by Mayor
Lea after an investigation into the
recent firing of shots at two municipal
officials of Kl Paso from the Mexican
side, said that if any further shots
are fired at policemen or officials, they
will he returned
As a further precaution, street-car
traffic from HI Paso t<> Juarez waa
stopped to-night.
Reports of a Mexican raid near
Canutlllo, about fifteen milas north of
here, caused some excitement this even
ing locally, until it developed that the
trouble was a private affair between
Mexican ranch hands
TFIREE MEXICANS KIl.LEn
BV UMTKI) STATUS lillOOI'S
BROWNSVILLE. T1CX., June lfi.
United States troops late to-night en
gaged a band of between twenty-five
and thirty Mexican bandits ten miles
east of San Benito. Tex., and, after
exchanging a fow shots, the Mexicans
were scattered. It is reported thrtea
Mexicans were killed. So far as known
there wero no American casualties.
Drive Along Austrian Front Con
tinues With Undiminished
Successes.
ALMOST 170.000 MEN-TAKEN
Around Verdun, French and Ger
man Armies Arc Inactive
During Day.
The forward drive of llio Russian
army along the Austrian front con
tinues with apparently undiminished
Burr^sfips. From the Prlpet marshes
southward to Czernowltz Ihn forces of
i>ni>r;i! Brussiloff, nceordlnE to reports
from Petrograd. arc throwing hark
? ounteratta?-k: and are advancing
steadily. In thirteen days Hie Rus
sians have taken prisoner almost
liO.OC.t men. and have raptured im
men.se stores of war booty, says ihn
Russian War <'flice.
Battles southeast of Lutsk. between
Kosin and Tarnovka ati'l northwest of
Buoz.irz, have brought further suc
cesses to the Russian arms. In an
action on the Bluchlevka River, south
east <>f Lutsk, more than .1.000 men
iv?? re raptured, after the attacking Rus
sia i: had forded the river. The fight
itig continues northwest of Buezacz.
where the Hermans are co-operating
with the Austro-Hungarians, but the
Russians r?-port the capture here thus
far of C/'OO men fro:n the Teutonic
allies
It 101*t I,SK til-' .VITACK S
( I.AIMi:i) m Rt.SSIANS
Attempts of the Austrians and Ger
mans to take the offensive on many
sectors of the long front were re
pulsed. according to Petrograd. The
Russian War Office also rhronicles the
repuls- of attacks in the region of
Sokul. southeast of Kovul. one of the
objectives of the present Russian drive.
Berlin reports the capture of 400 Rus
sian.-1 during an attack on a German
position nosth of Przewloka
Around Verdun the French and Ger
man armies were inactive during the
day, there having been only intermit
tent artillery bombardments. Pa:is
says it has been confirmed that the
French attack of Thursday on the slope
south of Le Mort Homme resulted in
the capture of Herman tienches on a
fiont of about two-thirds of a mile.
While London claims further ad
vances for the British forces in
Mesopotamia. In the region of Kui-el
Aniara. Constantinople asserts the
Btitish have retired from within the
range of the Turkish guns The oc
cupancy of Imam Mansuia, on the
south bank of the Tigris River, and
the pushing forward of British trenches
to within -?>'! yaids of the Turks at
i-annayyat, <>n the north bank of the
Tigris, are claimed by London. On the
other hand, the Turks say the British
amp has been removed from Felahie,
on the Tigris .below Kut-el-Amaia,
owing to the activity of the Turkish
guns against it.
British forces operating in the
eastern part of German Fast Africa
have made further advances, and have
i occupied two villages. Near the* coast
the British have taken Koro.'wc, and
also have seized positions in the Vic
torian sector.
POWKUFCL UKItMA.V ATTACKS
KAIL t M?i:it FRF.XCH FIRE
PARIS. June lfi?Powerful Herman
attacks made last nicht on the French
position southeast of Thiaumont farm,
on the Verdun front, broke down under
the French macliine-gun and infantry
tire, according to to-day's statement by
the War Office.
The statement says the Germans
began their assault at ?> o'clock in the
evening on (he right bank of the Meuse
from hill No. ."21 to the edge of hill
No. 320 At the same time, another
aitack was launched at the southern
edge of the Caillette wood. All attacks
were repulsed.
The trench captured by the French
yesterday oti the southern slope of Dead
Man's Mill was also the object of sev
eial German counterattacks during the
tiicht, all of which failed. It is an
nounced that the total number of pris
oners taken by the French at the time
of the capture of the trench is five
officers and ISO soldiers.
The statement follows
"On the. left bank of the River Meuse
t'lie Germans last night delivered several
counterattacks upon the trenches on
the southern slopes of Dead Man's Hill,
which were occupied by us yesterday.
All their endeavors failed nnfler the
| French fire. The totnl number of Her
man prisoners taken .it this point
reaches five officers and 1*>0 men.
"On the right hank of the river the
enemy at * o'clock yesterday evening
directed a powerful offensive movement
against our positions north of Thiau
mont fortifications from hill No. 321 as
fat as the sides of hill No. 320
"The successive attacks of this move
ment broke rlown under the fire of o\ur
machine guns and our Infantry, and It
resulted in heavy losses to our assail
ant s
"Further east, following a violent
bombardment with large-caliber shells,
the Hermans undertook an attack at
about 10 P. M upon our trenches on
the southern side of the Caillette wood.
<>ur curtain of fire, at once brought into
play, prevented the enemy from coming
out of his trenches
"On the lemainder of the front there
have been intermittent artillery ex
changes."
t'XSI CCKSSI'T'll ATTACKS
OX DEAD MAN'S HJbL
i BERLIN. June lfi (via London).?Two
i attacks delivered by the French yester
I day and last night on the German line
along the. southern slope of Dc'irl Man's
Hill (Verdun front) \*ere unsuccessful
! the War Office announced to-a<:y. In
the first attack the French temporarily
(Continued on Socoud Page.)
ROW OVER SUFFRAGE PLANK
__ONLY DISTURBER OF HARMONY
Scene at Oneninir of Deinorrntio Xntinnnl f nnvpiitinn.
PLAN TO UNITE PARTIES
Reports Negotiations Under Way to
Bring Republicans and Prog
ressives Together.
SKKS ROOSEVELT AND WHITMAN
Talk- Willi (Jovernor .lust After He
Had Culled Upon Hughes?Col
onvl Appears to He Surprised
When Told of Statement.
NEW YORK, June 1?V?CSeorge W
Perkins after a series of conferences
o-dav w.*h Colon.-1 Kons'-vf'! and
Governor Whitman, annouiu'-d th.tt
uot:<?tions were under way looking
' ? .1 "restoration of the good feeling"
1 it'wt-en 'lie Progressive and Republi
can parties.
Mr F'erkins saw Governor Whitman
ustVifter the Governor had called upon
rh.tries H Hughes. The Progressive:
??ader then returned to call upon
Roosevelt. He had long talks with
1 oth.
TV. Murray Crane, chairman of the
subcommittee of the Republican Na
tional Committee, which has author
ity to select a manager for the Hughes
rampaign. called on Colonel Roosevelt
it his hotel late to-day Both declined
-to discuss their conference. Colonel
? Roosevelt appeared to be surprised
when told of Mr. Perkins's statement.
"1 know nothing whatever about
that." he declared "I have nothing
to say. If 1 have anything to say I
will say it under my own signature."
Erwin A. Holt, a delegate from
North Carolina to the Progressive Na
tional Convention, visited the Colonel
to night.
"I am open to conviction." said Mr.
Holt, "bu(t I think too much of Col
onel Roosevelt to see him put up as
a target for defeat."
Colonel Roosevelt's illness, it was an
nounced to-n'ght, is nothing more
serious than a slight attack of pleu
risy.
lll(.iti:s NOT (IIUSTIOVKD
ABOfT PEACE PI.ATS
WASHINGTON. June Ifi--Charles E.
Hughes. weary from a week of stren
uous political activity in New York,
returned to his home here to-night f>?r
the week-end. He retired hefore hear
ing ?if George W. Perkins's annotinc
ment regarding peace negotiations.
The nominee's apparent desire to hr l'g
Progressive.'- ami Republicans into ac
cord is understood to have tieen dis- I
cussed at several conferences between J
Mr. Hughes and some of the Progres
sive leaders
The desirability of hrinving the Pro.
? -pressives under the Republican stand
ard again was discussed also, it is
j understood, in the long conference on
I Tuesday night between Mr. Hughes and
W Murray Crane, chairman <>f the ,
Republican national subcommittee on j
\ organization, who is said to have con
ferred with other party leaders on the j
t ihject since then. No one would au- !
t'i'uize > he statement that such a 1
movement was on foot, but indications
I ive not been lacking that peace over- I
t'.ites were imminent
Indications are that the. attitude of
, the Progressives may have much bear
ing on the nominee's selection of a
I national chairman and campaign man
; ager.
PI tot. It ICSSIVIOS 1JKGIC l.OKn
Kon Tllll CHAIRMANSHIP
I *
j It became, known to-night that some
I Progressive leaders have a candidate
for the chairmanship in William Loeh,
Jr., who was secretary to President
Roosevelt. His advisers, however, are
; almost unanimously of the belief that
I he will virtually be his own campaign
(Continued on Second Page.)
Democratic Platform
Adopted Exactly as
Approved by President
I
Only Fight Is on Suffrage
Planl^---Vigorous Dec
larations on Amer
icanism.
ST LOUIS, June 16.?The lJemo- i
(?ratio National Convention at its final
session early this? afternoon adopted j
the party platform by acclamation i
exactly as approved by President Wil- j
son and submitted by the resolutions '
committee. The only tight was on the j
suffrage plank, but it was finally voted
into the platform without any change. 1
The platform was as follows:
The Platform.
"The Democratic party, in national
? ?(invention assembled, adopts the fol
lowing declaration to the end that the
people of the United States may both
realize the achievements wrought by
four years of Democratic, administra
tion, and be apprised of the policies to
which the party is committed for the
further conduct of national affairs.
"We indorse the administration of
Woodrow Wilson. ... It is the best
exposition of sound Democratic policy
at home and abroad.
"We challenge comparison of our
record, our keeping of pledges, and
our constructive legislation, with
those of any party of any time.
"We found our country hampered by
special privilege, a vicious tariff, ob
solete banking laws, and an inelastic
currency . . . The Republican party,
despite repeated pledges, was impotent
to correct abuses which it had fostered.
I rtder our administration, under a
leadership which has never faltered,
these abuses have been corrected, and
our people have been freed therefrom.
"Our archaic banking and currency
system, prolific of panic and disaster |
under Republican administration, h>tig
the refuge of the money trust, has
been supplanted by the Federal re
serve act. a true Democracy of credit
under government control, already
proved a financial bulwark in a world
i risis, mobilizing our resources, plac
ing abundant credit at the disposal <>f
legitimate industry, and making a
currency panic impossible
"We have created a Federal Trade
Commission to accommodate the per- >
plexing questions arising under the
antitrust laws, so that monopoly may I
be strangled at its birth, and legitimate i
Industry encouraged Fair competition!
i:t business is now assured
"We have effected an adjustment of!
the tariff. . . . fair to the consumer |
and to the producer. We have ad-!
justed the burdens of taxation so that j
| swollen incomes bear their equitable I
. share. . . ."
1,/ibor
| "We have protected the rights of the
i laborer against the unwarranted issu-]
, a nee of writs of injunction, and have!
guaranteed to him the right of trial by,
I Jury In cases of alleged contempt com-'
j mitted outside, the presence of tho
J court.
| "We have advanced the parcel post]
| to genuine efficiency, enlarged the;
| postal savings system, added 10,000
rural delivery routes and extensions,'
thus reaching two and one-half mil
lions additional people, improved the
postal service in every branch, and for
the first time In our history placed
tho post-office system on a self- sup
I
porting basis, with actual surplus in
1915. IV14 an<1 3916.
Kcoiiomic Kreedniu.
It is declared t ha t reforms needed
to clear away privilege, and prevent
unfair discrimination, have been ef
fected by recent legislation, and that,
as far as possible, the party must re- ,
move every remaining element of un
rest and uncertainty from the path of
the business men of America.
Turin-.
"We aflirm our belief in the doctrine
of a tariff for the purpose of providing
sufficient revenue for the operation of
the government economically adminis
tered, and unreservedly indorse the
Underwood tariff law as truly exempli
fying that doctrine. . . .
"Two yen:s of a war which has
i directly involved most of the chief
I industrial nations of the world, and
' which has indirectly affected the life
i and industry of all nations, are bring
ing about economic changes more
varied and far-reaching than the
world has ever before experienced. In
i order to ascertain just what those
changes may be, tiie Democratic Con- i
cress is providing for a nonpartisan,
tariff commission to make impartial
study of every economic fact that may
I throw light either upon our past or
upon our future tiscal policy with re
j gard tn tii<? imposition of taxes on1
I imports or with regard to the changed
and changing conditions under which
j our trade , is carried on. We cordially
indorse this timely proposal and de
i clare ourselves in sympathy with the
principle and purpose of shaping legis
lation within that field in accordance
with clearly established facts, rather
than in accordance with trade demands,
of seltish interests or upon inform.i
tton provided largely, if not exclusively,
by them.
A inf*i*lcii 111.sin.
"The part that the United States will
play in the new day of international |
relationships which is now upon us !
will depend upon our preparation and
our character. The Democratic party,
therefore, recognizes the assertion and
triumphant demonstration of the in
divisibility and coherent strength of
the nation as the supreme issu>' of this
day. in which the whole world faces
the i rlsis of nun infold change. It sum
mons all men, of whatever origin or
creed, who would count themselves
Americans to join In making dear to
all the world the unity and consequent
power of America
"This is an issu<> of patriotism To
taint it with partisanship would be to
detile it. In this day of test, America
must show itself, not a nation of parti
sans, but a nation of patriots. There
is gathered here in America the best
of the blood, the industry and tho
genius of the whole world, the Mement
of a great race and a magnificent so
< iety to be melted into a mighty and
tplendid nation.
"Whoever, actuated by the purpose
to promote the interest of a foreign
power, in disregard to our own coun
try's welfare, or to injure this govern
Jnient in its foreign relations or cripple
| or destroy its Industries at home, and
j whoever, by arousing prejudices of a
racial, religious or other nature-,
creates discord and stNfe among our
! (Continued on Third Page.)
ATTENTION!
V. M. 1. Alumni.
Special train will leave Lexington 0:30
A. M.. June 22<1, via B. & O. Staunton and
C. & O.. arriving Richmond 3.60 P. M.
SUFFRAGE LEASERS ILL
CARRY FIGHT TO CONGRESS
They Denounce as Inadequate Plank
Adopted in Democratic
Platform.
WEAKER THAN* REPUBLICAN
If Constitutional Amendment Is Not
Passed, War Will Follow, Miss
Martin Declares?Mrs. Catt Wires
President Asking His Position.
ST. LOUIS', .1 unc !?*>?Leaders of both
the Woman's party anil the National
American Woman Suffrage Associa
tion united to-night in denouncing as
inadequate the suffrage plank of the
Democratic platform, atid declared they
would immediately resume their fight
in Congress for national recognition.
"We shall return to Washington as
quickly as possible," Miss Ann Martin,
chairman of the Woman's party, said.
'We are going to give the Democratic
Congress one more chance to make good
before adjournment, if it does not see
fit to pass a constitutional amendment,
war will follow.
"I regard the Democratic, plank
veaker than tin* Republican. The pre
amble of the latter, at least, is re
garded by some as giving national in
dorsement to suffrage.
"Thus far we have not. worked out
details of our plans for fighting the
Democratic party this fall, for we have
hopes that the congressional leaders
will see the light; but if they continue
to oppose us. we will fight them. And
it will be a good fight, too. We have
4.000.000 women voters, $600,000 In
crash, a good cause and a determined
spirit With .ill of these we cannot
help but win."
!'HS. CATT CAI.I.S SPECIAL
MEETI.VG OK HI-:n nOAHI)
Immediately after the adjournment
of the convention, Mrs. Carrie Chapman
Catt. president of the National Amer
ican Woman Suffrage Association,
called a special meeting of her na
tional hoard, and later issued the fol
lowing official statement.
"No suffragist who was present at
the convention to-day could misin
terpret either the speeches or the ac
tion taken by th? Democratic party in
adopting the alleged woman suffrage
plank in its national platform
"The Democrats admitted freely in
their speeches that 'political exi
gency" demanded 'some kind of a suf
frage plank,' and they thought to
wink the women by a jumble of words
thai were designed to meet the .situa
tion, but. in no senff succeeded
"The so-called suffrage plank which
they adopted, after bursts of eloquence
that were far more frank than intel
ligent. cannot be expected to win Hie
presidential campaign for them But
it may well he expected to win the
antagonism of millions of men and
women voters in all parts of the coun
try. I
"If the plank adopted to-day is the
President's choice, the world may
Justly accuse him of descending to the
tricks of the cheapest politician m
order to bid for votes by flaunting a
plank that may be interpreted In as
many ways as there are people."
TKLKVIIA M ASKS WIF.SON
TO STATE HIS POSITION'
Mrs. Catt also sent the following
telegram to President Wilson
"Inasmuch as Governor Ferguson, of
Texas, and Senator Walsh, of Mon
tana, made diametrically opposite
statements in the Democratic conven
tion to-day with regard to your at
titude toward the suffrage plank adopt
ed by the convention, we apply to you
directly to state your position on the
plank and give your precise Interpre
tation of Its meaning."
ENTIRE PLATFORM
FULLY ADOPTED
WITHOUT CHANGE
No Voice Raised Against
Vigorous Declarations
on Americanism.
WOMEN LEADERS FEEL
SOME ADVANCE IS MADE
Walsh Quotes Wilson as Con
sidering It Vital That Suffrage
Declaration Be Made.
SIHSTITTTE BADLY DEFEATED
Democratic Convention Then Finally
Adjourns Sine Die at
3: 1 1 P. M.
ST hoi IS, June 1 ?The Democratic
National < onvention finished Its work
early this afternoon by adopting the
party platform exactly as approved by.
President Wilson and submitted by the
resolutions committee, including the
plank on Americanism and that favoring
woman suffrage, but not until the har
mony of Its three days' session had been
disturbed with a row over the suffrage
plank.
No voice was raised against the
vigorous declarations of the Ameri
canism plank, but at one time It looked
as if the suffrage plank had boen lost.
After Senator Walsh, of Montana, had
told the convention that President Wll
?<>n himself considered it vital to
party success, however, it was voted
into the platform by a ballot of 8S8 1-3
to IS1 1-2. The entire platform then
was adopted without roll call.
As it went into the platform the suf
frage plank stands:
"We favor the extension of the fran
chise to the women of this country.
State by State, on the same terms as
to the men."
The woman suffrage leaders con
sidered it a much more favorable
declaration than they got from the
KepuMica n convention at Chicago;
they threw all their force behind it
and won the support of the administra
tion leaders, who were found fighting
for them when danger threatened.
H iggard and worn from an all-night
session, the platform makers were not
ready with their repot t until after
noon, when Senator Stone, sleepless for
more than thirty hours, took the
speakers' stand and. explaining that
lie was too tired to road the document,
gave over this task to Senator Walsh,
of Montana, and Senator Mollis, of New
Hampshire, who took turns reading
the long declaration.
K V Kit V no l> V . K KVKI) I P
FOIl SIKFRAGE FIGHT
The fight on the suffrage plank was
in the air Everybody was keyed up to
it. The real tight broke when Governor
^rguson. ot Texas, who headed the
minority report against the adminis
tration plank, was given thirty min
utes in which to present it.
The plank oftered by the minority
was:
"The Democratic party always has
stood for the sovereignty of the sev
etal States in the control and regula
tion of elections We reafiirm the his
toric position of our party in this re
gard, and favor the continuance of that
wise provision of the Federal Constitu
tion which vests in the several States
of the I nion the power to prescribe
the qualifications of their electors."
Besides Governor Ferguson, the re
port was signed by former Represen
tative ttartlett. of Georgia; James R.
Nugent, of New Jersey, and Stephen
B. Fleming, of Fort Walne. Ind.
J" an impassioned speech Senator
Wnlsh swept aside the smaller ques
fi^ht, told the delegates that President
11011.4 which had been injected Into the
W ilson himself knew the plank was
iu Hie platfrom. and considered it es
sential for party victory.
Mrst si itnk.\nioii sometimes
TO WISDOM OF MAJORITY
Whatever your opinions may be,"
he said, "we shall neve,r be anything
but ,1 discordant and divided party un
less we sun-end-- some of our con
vict iotiH to the wisdom of a majority.
Here you are confronted, us one of
our famous leaders said, 'with a condl
:i theory' The twelve suf
11.1 go States represent ninety-ono votes
in the electoral college Every polltl
'?'I party has made this declaration in
some form or other It becomes a
simple question of whether you will
incur the enmity of these women.
There js no possibility of losing a
single vote if you adopt this majority
plank, because everv other party has
done the same
"! ask you," he cried, "if you're going
to put a resolution in here that's a. lie.
You can't tdoi>t this minority report
without stultifying yourselves."
Senator Walsh ?heti explained that
the President knew about the suffrage
plank. and abided. "He believes It vital,
to his success that it stay there. I
ask you with all the fervor of my
being. Who is there" here who is wiser
or more patriotic than he?"
While the fight had been going on a
thunderstorm burst, and when the row
on the convention tloor was at its
heiRht the storm reached Its climax.
The booming of the thunder, mixed:
with the roaring shouts on the floor
and the clatter caused by the rain on
the roof, almost drowned out tbo
speakers. Tho storm cleared Just an
