THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Showers to-day and probably fkmorrqwg
..it..-., aat v
IT SHINES FOP. ALL
tm.
auuuicdai wuiuat
Highest temperature yesterday,
Detailed weather, maol and mt
VOL LXXXIII. NO. 291.
NEW YORK, SATURDAY, JUNE 17, 1916. Copyright, 1916. by (fie Sun Printing and rublUMnj; XMocfalion.
PRICE
CENTS, j
CARRANZA ORDERS A TTACK
ON a S. TROOPS IF THEY
MO VE SOUTH, WES T OR EAS T
1
WW
.ivaaaai jaan
RUSSIANS TAKE
14,100TEUT0NS
IN DATS DRIVE
Fighting Is In Progi-ess gn
Whole Line South From
Volhynia.
INSURGENTS
HOW GERMAN PROJECTILES PENETRATED BRITISH SHIPS.
rpHE first photographs of British vessels that were
in the great naval fight arrived in this country
yesterday. The accompanying picture shows the
damage done to the armored side of one of Eng
land's capital ships, the name of which was deleted
by the censor when the photograph was passed.
In the left hand corner the hole made through the
heavy armor plate has been stuffed with canvns.
Kcnrs made by shells are seen along the ship's side.
FIGHT WILSON
ON M'CORMICK
The President's Manager
Looked On as Intruder
hy Old Loaders.
Any Advance to lie Consid
ered as a Hostile
Act.
MKXK'AXS THKX TO
ACT ACCOKDIXHLY
Agreement With Gen. CJa-!
vira Declared Xnll
and Void.
IXTKKVKXTIOX ST'KK
WITH THK FI1I8T SHOT
Sharpest Xote Ever Sent
Out Approved by the
President.
Wahiiixotos. Juno 1. I'nofflclnl
duces reached Washington to-night
Ihnt fion. .Iiirinto Trevlno, acting un
der directions fiom Cart an .a, has
served notice on licii. Pershing, com
manding the American force in Mexico.
th.it nny f tu tiler movement to the
south, east or wc.it by the American
troops will be legat-dod as a hostile
act and will be treated accordingly. '
Although olllclal confirmation for
,, , ,,.., , ,,,,, ,,, c,,
the re on Is lacking t bo h he State
and War Departments, officials here
are apprehensive. Trevino Is regarded
M the ablest of 'Carranza 'a Generals
and one who Is entirely In the contl-
ib'tico of the de facto Government.
While it is Indicated that there Is no I
Ml purpose on the pari of the Amerl- 1 se mai riKtii. m easi ur we ,i.m
can Governtnent to ,end the troops I "p. "cVnt
further Into .Mexico. Gen. Pershing Is ,,
under orders to follow any "hot trail'
of bnudlts who might be reported in
hlM vlcinitv. OMielals here. In the .ab- i
hence, of oonllrinatinn from Gen. Per- I
thing, are unable to gauge whether the
thrtat. Ik a charnyterlstic Mexican
bluff or Is to be' taken seriously.
Should any attack be made by the
Carranzixtas, it Is admitted that only
ft miracle could prevent war between
thi two countries. In that event It
would lie necessary, army" odlcers say,
for the United States to prepare Imme
diately for a thorough campaign in
Mexico. Till would require the call
ing out of the entire National Guard
nd perhaps a tall for volunteers.
Wllaon Approve! Note.
The American reply to the Carranza
note has been approved by President
WlUun and probably will be forwarded
to-morrow unless this new develop-
quite a change In the communication.
' C lu-"";
was held up to-day because of the
desire, of the .Administration to secure
further details concerning the fight at
Ban Ignacio, Texas. In which three
Aincricun soldiers were killed and six
wounded. To-day's reports are said to
have, indicated that Curranzlstas were
Involved in the attack.
As heretofore stated in Tun Su.v, the
reply refuses to comply with Carranza's
demand for an Imtnedlato withdrawal of
the Pershing expedition, Olllclals who
have examined it declare that It Is one
of the sharpest notes ever sent and con.
tains a severe rebuke for the Intemperate
language uu'd in the Carranza communi
cation. It was further learned that the Mexi
can dank In the Democratic platform Is
an accurate summary of the position
taken by the United .States In tho reply
to Carranza with icference to thi Inten
tions of the American Government',
namely, to resort to Intervention only
after all other expedients for a satisfac
tory settltinent of the situation have
txtn exhausted. The Mexican plank
rt.i'ls as follows:
The want of .1 stable, responsible
Government in Mexico, capable of re
pressing and punishing maraudtrs and
bandit bands who have not only taken
the lives and seized and destroyed the
property of American citizens In that
country but have Insolently Invaded
our soil, made war upon and murdered
our people theieon, has rendered It
necessary temporarily to occupy by
cur armed forces a iwrtlon of the ter
ritory of that friendly State. Until by
thi restoration of law and order
flereln a repetition of such Incur
Ions Is Improbable, the necessity for
their remaining in Mexico must con
tinue. Intervention. Implying as It does
military subjugation, Is revolting to
th Kople of the United .States, not
withstanding the pinvoc.itlon to that
course has been gieat, and should be
reported to, if at all, only as a last
renin. The stubborn resistance of the
President and his advisers to every de
mand and suggestion to enter upon It
l creditable alike to them and to the
Pople In whose name ho speaks.
With tho excoptlon of the last sen
tn'e the platform declaration Is said,
a.niust In so many words, to follow the
luiBUag'j used In the American note.
Carrnnin Una Tnn Move,
What the effect Is going to be is still
reorder! ue ptolilematlcal, although in
many qujrtsrs the nltuatioii Is regarded
nvpendent as to luture developments
on the choice which (.'artanza makes
tif'wccn the two alternatives that now
upc'far to face hhn : Hither to seize
Ul n a war with the United Stntes as
a desperate expedient to rally Mex
h behind h-in. or to llee the country.
Although pleased with tho attitude of
the I'rrslden', ,,s represented by the
V'stfnrm dn hration concerning Inter
vettlon the entiin plank having been
'ten, , iiMdcrMood, hy the Presi
dent h'msclf munlwrs of thu Diplomatic.
' ps li I invi ninents are opposed
' "li . mvMe hj the United .Stutei
a II coiii erni d oiei the prospect that
'Jch action might be forced on the
t'l' il Slates ,
'Ills nu nectlou It was learned to
rdrM that several of the Latin American
TREVINO WARNS
CHIHUAHUA CITY. Mexico.
June 10. Acting on instruc
tions from Cnrrntun CJcn. Tre
vino, commander of the nrmy of
the north, advised Gen. Pcrshlnjr
of the American forces to-day
that any movement of American
troops from their present lines to
the south, cast or west would be
considered a hostile act and n sig
nal to commence warfare.
Trevino at the same time an
nounced he had received ac
knowledgment from Pershing of
the recent order nullifying any
Agreement made with Gen. Ga
vira nt the recent conference, the
object of which was to avert
clashes between the troops of the
two Governments.
Four thousand men of the Du
rntigo division of the Carraiua
army under (Jen. Domingo Arri
eta have arrived at Concho, about
sixty miles southeast of Chilutn
huu city, to reenforce Gen. Mai
donado. Anti-American feeling here was
Related reports of a recent encounter between American soldiers and
natives in n saloon in Casus Grandest in which a Mexican policeman
was wounded.
diplomat have been discussing anions
themselves the advisability of proposing
a new offer of mediation hull Id the situ
ation glow wore.
The Mexican Kmbassy. which has
been unusuall llcnt of late, Issued a
statement to-night concerning conditions
In Mexico. It read as follows :
"Mr. Carranza has l"?ucd a call for
municipal elections to be held the first
Sunday of next September. After tnee
elections ulll follow elections for Itepre-
mutative.-. Senators and President, .no:
otherwise can he effected the restoration
of constitutional order a It Is of peers-
M m h(, munlclp.im, ,.vlte ,.
e,ecton. f Henresentntlves and the lat-
ter revise the Presidential election.
"Votes In this election will he withheld
from persons who accepted position..
under Hueru. as this circumstance Is
looked on as a disqualification to cxer-'
the population.
"During the disturbed conditions of
the country a number of uns riiiuiious
sneculators started oil companies, some
of them not havlnu even a plot of lanu
In which to dls wells. The Government I
In Its work of organization ha directed
an Investigation of all such enterprises
which will be given to the public to
prevent them from being Imposed upon,
and swindled.
"The older oil companies arc well
known, of course, and their work Ib not
Interfered with In nu way. as Is proved
by the dally Increase of oil exports from
Tuxpam anil Tampico.
"Inventories filed with Oo eminent
officials of stocks of food on hand in
the city of Mexico show thousands of
tons of necessaries of nil kinds. ufllcle.it
to meet all demands; meantime nrV
crops are raised. Moreover, Instructions
have been Issued that shipments of food
from Interior points must be given right I
of way on the railroads over everything1
else to prevent speculation on existing 1
stocks. I
Mlnh7ch"ror may monta.
m, ,,rfn pci.UI),.,i hy Zapatistas, tias o:
, a, itiflloted severe punishment to tin-
raucniig nanus anil uesiroyen ansoiuieiy
the principal ones. The villages of ,Io-
1lirr.i, fi wl Tlall.aMin frrn U'lla,. ,l,ft
Zapatistas organized all their Incursions, '
nave been occupied In the last few das,
and the Constitutionalist troops four,-l
In these places an enormous quantity
of things wlilch the Zapatistas had been
hiding since they were driven from tho
city nine months ago.
"Among the valuable things captured
from the Zapatistas during this cam
paign arc 200 railroad cars awl fifteen
locomotives, as well as printing ma
chinery and several pieces of machinery
to make ammunition. With the Inst
occupation of those two places all the
Htate Is practically In the hands of tho
.Mexican ',nvernment, ami smaller bands
of Zapatistas which stilt nre at large In
the mountains will be soon annihilated."
30 TJ. S. SOLDIERS KILLED.
Bandits llnve Wonmleil Kill In J,e
Than Year.
San Antonio, Tex.. June ! Thirty
American soldiers have been killed and
over 100 wounded plnce the first of last
August In less than one year by Mex
ican "bandits." These figures were com
plied at Gen, Kunston's headquarters.
The bandit raids were started last
August by Luis de la Hosa as the prin
cipal figure In the Ilrownsvllle country.
The Americans suffered extensive cas
ualties from the hands of these men.
who were operating under the "plan of
San Diego."
The killings and the woundlngs have
extended from Ilrownsvllle to Naco in
Arizona and Into Mexico.
No account wa taken of the Ameii
can civilians who have been killed or
wounded,
FOES' POLICIES TIRE HUGHES.
lie Falls Asleep ttpmllnir the Demo
cratic rintform.
Wasiunoton. June lfi, flurles K.
Hughes. Republican nominee for Presi
dent, returmd here at .SM.1 this evening
much pleased with his first campaign
trip. To-morrow will ho devoted to con
ferences with Itepuhllcan leaders and
on Sunday Mr Hughes will return to
New York.
In response to requests fur a state,
merit of opinion nn the Democratic plat
form Mr. Hughes said he did not wish
to make any comment, but It was nscr-i.
talned that he fell asleep after beginning
to read It on the train, After his imp
he had dinner alone. He Indicated that
he would not comment on polltlial Is
eiics until the formal notification of his
nomination early in July.
LLOYD GEORGE WAR HEAD?
I'lckrri to Nneeeril Kltrhrner, Lon
don Paper s)u.
Sptcial Cable Pettatch to Tub Ms
UiNPON, June 17. According to the
political writers In the London morning
papers, the appointment of David l.lowl
George. Minister of Munitions, as Secie.
tary of Htate for War to succeed the late
I .oid Kitchener has now been definitely
decided upoa.
GEN. PEfcSHING.
Oopvrlght American I'ro
Gen. Jacinto B.
Asioichttloli.
Trevino,
provoked again to-dav
by cxag-
MEXICANS GALLED
TO ARMS IN JUAREZ
Tolil to rropjiro for Hrcnk
With t'. S. Troops Anin
Cross Line.
CATCH THHEE HAX1MTS
Ml. Peso. June IB. Following the en
try Into Mexico to-day of American
troops near Laredo, In pursuit of Mexi
can bandits who yesterday raided a
ranch In Texas near that point, placards
appeared this nfternoon In Juarez on
tha dead walls and telephone poles. In
viting all citizens to meet at 5:50 each
evening In the plaza to receive military'
Instruction.
The notice, which Is In 8pnlah and
Is signed by Jesus Valdci. urges alt
citizens to practise Tn orJer lo be pre
pared In the event of a break with
the United States." The notice requests
that both old and young meet In the
plaza in front of the headquarters of
the Twenty-eighth Battalion for mili
tary Instruction.
Valdez Is a private citizen In Juarez
and a friend of Gen. Gavira, ex-commander
of the garrison. Following the
action of Carranza soldiers yesterday
In firing over the line near tho Kl
Paso union station at two city sanitary
Inspectors, Mayor Tom Lea to-day or
dered the purchase of rifles for nil
the Inspectors, and Gen. Hell Issued or
ders for a number of the best rifle shots
In his brigade to be stationed along the
river banks.
The General Is reputed to have called
Gen. Gonzales, thu Juarez garrison
commander, on the telephone and In
formed hlrn that he had stationed his
best sharpshooters on .the border and
that If any more sniping occurred from
the Mexican side of the line his men
would return the nre and make some
business for the Juurez hospital depart
ment. Soldiers Kept In Camp.
Shortly after tho proclamation ap
peared In Juarez this afternoon Gen.
Hell sent out word to all American
troops on leave In Kl Paso to return to
their commands as soon as possible.
To-night all requests for leave of ab
sence from either Fort Ullss or the army
camps were refused by the officers.
A leport gained currency this after
noon that a hand of Mexicans had
crossed Into New Mexico and raided
some ranches fourteen miles noith of
Kl Paso, hut Gen. Pell denied this. A
shooting took place In that vicinity to
day, but It was between two Mexican
ranchers and occurred In a dispute over
irrigation rights.
The fourth expedition Into Mexican
teriltory hy American troops slnco Villa
attacked Columbus on March 9, when
Frank Tompkins took the first Ameri
can force over the lino near that New
Mexico border village, occurred to-day,
when Major Alonza Gray led his little
command of cavalry across the river Into
Mexico In search of the bandits who
raided his camp yesterday nt San Igua
clou, but he remained on Mexican soil
only two hours. He found no trace of
the bandits.
Major Gray crossed the border sir
miles below San Ignaclon, scouted alonf
tho Mexican side for a short distance
and returned again to the American
side.
On the American side three of the
bandits were captured and tho body of
one found, bringing Ihe total of Mexi
cans dead to nine.
Another nnlri Kxpretrrt.
Another raid Is looked for along the
houlli Texan border line, accordlns to
despatches from there to-day.
The troops of the Fourteenth Cavalry,
under command of Major Gray, were re
ported to-night as niovlns toward
Zapata, fifteen miles southeast of Han
lgnncion. t lie scene of the bandit attack
e.uly yesterday, becuuso of a report that
the bandits were planning another at
tack at Mint point, It was reported to
dav .
The bodies of Charles F. Flowers, Ar
motirdale of Kantian and Kdward Ka
tonall of New York city, killed In yester
day morning's bandit attack, were for
warded to relatives to-day,
Tho body of J'.imes Mlnnden of Cleve
land, the third victim, wan buried this
nfteinoon with military honors at Laredo,
Denials were made In Juarez and at
the Mexican consulate In li Paso to
day that Ifii. Gavira had been executed
Pi Mexico city for having conferred with
Gen. Pershing relative to the distribu
tion of tho de facto troops. Consul An
dreas Garcia asserted Gen. Gavira la In
Itlllo and not In Meiloo etty,
(tKKMAXS ftAKIXtf
STAXI) FOR KOVKlJ
fcil Cubit UttiKtlef- lo Tnt Sln
Lo.spon, June 1, The Itusslan War
Ofllce announced to-day the additional
capture of inn officers nnd doctors and
14,000 men This brings the total num
ber of prisoners taken In Gen. Hruslloff'a
offensive, ns officially reported, up to
I.i:..
To-night's official Itusslan War Office
statement sa.vs fighting continues on the
whole front extending from nottherti
Volhjnla lo the Ituinanlan border.
Vienna officially asserted to-n'uht that
Itusslan cavalry south of the Dniester
(In the Ilukowlna) was repulsed and that
fighting Is In progress on the whole front
in Volhvula. A particularly violent bat
tle appears to be raging In the legion
halfway between the fortress of Itovno
and Kovel. Here the Itusslans are try
ing to cross the Ittver Slokhod. which is
traversed by the Hovno-Kovel railway
line nt a point twcrit)-lwo miles south
east of Kovel, The Austrian War Ofllce
declares these attempts were frustrated.
It Is In this area that the bulk of
Ihe German leenforcements have Joined
the Austrian", evidently determined to
save Kovel. Possesion of that Impor
tant railway Intersection would place
Gen. Itruslloff In complete control of
the southern railway s stern and nt the
same time endanger the German right
flank.
The Oftli-lal Krpnrta,
The Russian War Office statement fol
lows. On the front of the armies south
of Polessle the lighting continues.
The enemy has suffered heavy losses
In encounters with our troops. The fol
lowing details of the operations In
many sectors have been received :
In the course of a powerful but
fruitless counter attack by the enemy
In the region of Sokul. north of Ito
Jltohe. we took prisoner twenty officers
and 1.T50 men.
In the region west and southwest
of Lutzk in the pursuit of th enemy
our cavalry fought several successful
actions. Xrtl,.t .xl of Kre-mor.tz our
bold soldiers of Gen. SakharoffV force,
after a desperate fight, dislodged the
enemy from his fortified positions on
the Hlver Blulchevku. betwicn Kozln
and Tarnovka, by a vigorous assault.
Whole Company Loal.
One of our young regiments led by
Col. Tatarnoff after a tierce tight
forded the deep river, which was up
to their chins. One company was en
gulfed and died a heroic death, but
the valor of their comrades and their
officers resulted In the disorderly flight
of the enemy. Seventy officers and
6,000 men were taken prisoners, and (
two guns, a great many machine guns,
1,000 rifles, cartridges and enormous j
reserves of barbed wire were captured
In this action. ;
By an equally Impel uous coup our
Infantry, with poweifui support from
the artillery, captured Itostok Wood, I
south of the lower Potchaleff, taking I
prisoners, machine tuns and bomb
throwers. '
By a heroic effort the troops of .
Gen. Stcherbatchoff s army yesterday )
overthrew the Anstrians In the region i
of Gouvoronka nod Gullovoily, on the ,
went bank of the Htrvpa, j
Northwest of Hueczacz the engage- ,
ment with the Austrlans and the Ger
mans continues unceasingly. So far
we have captured 1.000 prisoners, guns
and machine guns.
An enemy aeroplane has dropped
bombs on T.imopol
Our brave Don Cossacks have
taken prisoner seven officers and 600
men. The approximate total of yes
terday's captures Is 100 offlceis. 14,000
men and a large quantity of war ma
terial. On the Dwlna front and further
south in the region of Polessle there
has been all exchange of nillllery and
rl tie tire. Our artillery made a vlo
lent attack .veslerday In the region
of Dwlnsk Knemy attempts to take
the offensive In many sectors were
ever where lepulsed by out tile.
The German War office nude tills re
port :
The P.ussinti's continued their efforts
jelerd.ij against Gen. von llothmer's
front, north of Przewloka. Dining the
repulse of tho enemy more than 4 00
men were taken prisoners by the de
fendeia. Effect of fii Shell.
A new kind of shell, said by some
correspondents to be a Japanese Inven
tion, while others assert It Is the prod
uct of Itusjdnu sclentlls, Is given tho
chief credit for the success of tho new
Husslan offensive In despatches from
Petrograd. Incredible quantities of tills
new weapon are used hy Gen. Ilruslloff
and Its effect Is said to surpass every
thing witnessed in the war thus far.
"Of course, nothing can be said about
the nature of this shell," says the Morn
inn Posf's correspondent at Petrograd,
who nsserts It Is the product of the
cooperative research of the Russian uni
versities. "In fighting hitherto Ihe re
duction of tiring lines mid the capture
of positions have been gradual processes,
but on the present oecnslon It is rapid
beyond belief, tho destruction anil cap
ture of men coming like a lightning
stroke, leaving the staff officers, whose,
station Is from llvo to fifteen miles be
hind Ihe firing line, with no means of
repairing tho initial mischief and (hey
simply fled. The astounding quantity of
booty of every kind la likewise evidence
of this,"
PESSIMISM IN A USTRIA.
Public Opinion IJInnniy llrsnlt
nf Itusslan Drive,
Sptcial Cable Despatch to Tim Scv
UifJooN, .June 17 IKuturday) Hwiss.
Italian and Itunmntaii reports dwell
upon tho great effect of tho Itnwhui
offensive on public opinion, In Austria
Hungary, where general pessimism pre
vails. The principal newspapers of
Vcnua make no comment upon the situ
ation. It li stated that the offensive on tho
Trentlnu ft out has suddncly ceased.
tJoa tin ued en Fifth Pape.
Cop)rlfht, 131. CntrM New Pholoicrnphlc nle.
ROOSEVELT TO BACK
THE HUGHES TICKET
Perkins nnd Whitman Hold
Cnnferennw nnd Pont'o
Seems Assured.
IITOIIES-S VTEYV INDORSED
The dove of political peace hovered
abidingly yesterday between the ramp
of Col. Itooscvelt and Charles llvans
Hughes. lis fluttering left nn doubt
In the mind" of political observers that
the vvay is being paved for the Colonel
to come out definitely In a short time
and announce his Intention of lending
111" support to the election of the He.
publlcin nominee.
A series of conferences throughout the
day between Oeorge W. Perkins and
tlov. Whitman, Ihe one representing tho
Colonel, the other, Mr, Hughes, loomed
up significantly In the prospect for har
mony. Hoth confer" es teported to their
principals the progress made, hut
neither would talk fur publication when
the discussions ended nut long before
midnight. Knoiigh vv.m said, however,
to Indicate that thu welcome is being
prepared for tin, return of as many of
the l'rogicM-lves ,i" the Colonel mnj be
able to deliver when he returns to the
fold himself.
Mr. Perkins met the Colonel In a
long talk at the same time that tlov.
Whitman met Mr. Hughes. Later In the
afternoon Mr. Perkins' .mil llov. Whit
man met for a conference.
Hughes hcsne l Plans.
Pending that conference, Mr, Hughes
announced that he had postponed his
teturu to Washington until to-morrow.
After It had ended and Mr. Perkins had
gone back to Mr, ltoosevell and !ov.
Whitman had called up the Jtepubllc.in
nominee, Mr. Hughes told his friends at
the Hotel AMnr that he would pro
cied to Washington at :i ;3U o'clock, as
lie had planned originally.
Kiniilly Mr, Perkins and c.ov. Whit
man, as per agreement when they parted
e.nller In Ihe day. met in another con
lerence al the St. Itegls last night, Mean
while Col, Hoohuvell had been visited
at the l.angdon Hotel by ex-Senatoi
Crane, chairman of the steering coin.
inlttHi of the Itepuhllcan National Com
mittee, winch will meet Mr. Hughes ,il
i!.;l0 o'clock on Monday afternoon to
make arrangements for the official notitl
cation, Tim visit of Mr. Crane was icgnrded ns
the mosl detlnlle evidence that the Colo
nel villi he welcomed hack Into the lie.
publican party. Hut the IVrklns-Whii-
man confei ences were even mme slgnlll
cant, It was leal lied milliui Itatlvely af
ter the llisl meeting fatly In the after
noon th,tt the Colonel Intend to support
Mr, Hughes positively and lo bring to his
aid as huge a body of the Piogiesslve
party as he is able lo conttol.
It Is understood III, a .Mr. PoiUIiim
Ic.itncd through llov. Whitman mbstan
tlnlly what Mr, Hughes Intends to say In
reapohMi to the olllclal notification ram.
mlttee. This was reported to the Colonel,
It Is believed to have been so satisfac
tory to the Colonel that he Is prepared
to ni.iko a public statement in suppoit
of Mr. Jluglies's candidacy as noon iih
the llcpuhltciu iioiiilr.ee makes his
speech of acceptance. The Hughes lead
ers aro not ceitaln whether the Colonel
will he nhle to bring with him as many
of the Progressives as the Colonel hopes,
but they me salMed that it will be a
considerable number.
Neither thn Colonel nor Mr. Crane
would dlscus.'i their meeting, hut Mr.
Crane's face was wreathed In smiles
(')ntinuf(t on Second Pagt.
FIGHT OVER TARIFF PLANK;
HYPHENISM IS ATTACKED
Anti-Dumping Feature Is Stricken Out as Contrary to
Democratic Principles, but Merchant Marine
Indorsement Provides Loophole in Platform.
Sr Lot is. June lit. A lineup of old
fa-liioned Pemocrats against those
posed to have protectionist leanings oc
, , . , , ,. ,
curred in the sub-committee that framed
ine iemoernuc piairorm witn tne rii-uu
that the platform as adopted does not I
In I s tariff plank contain n retom-
meuil.itlon for anti-dumping legilatlon.
The omKlon of such a clause ... .IKip.
pointing to many heie.
if th authors of the plank which In
corporated such a clause are to be be
lieved. President WlNon himself would
like to have seen the convention go on
record in favor of an auti-duinplng
clause.
Senator Oscar Underwood, who framed
the lurilf bill, has alvv:iw favored such
legislation, and at one nine came near
getting It adoption In Comer, ss. The I "eve in.u on the whole It
adoption of the tariff plank as originally . ,s 0IU' of ,h, I'lanks In the platform,
framed would have marked a distinct' . , , .. , .
swing awav from the ti.idlt.onil prln-, '- nlien Plank l'nehanBeil.
ciples of fie party , but as the taritf, The pliuikb drawn by President Wilson
pi ml; stand- t.nw It can hardl.v be said j d.iling with the Americanism Issue,
to bear am pi otectlonWt ttnge except peace and foreign relations went through
that P do,s provide for a tariff coinmls- practically as the President wrote them,
slon as .idvocn'td by the President j .Nobody npp.imitly had any disposition
As oi iglually submitted to the com-, to change the President' wording save
mlttee the tariff plank, which, according Similar John Sharp Williams. He de
to lis author, had the appioval of the niui icd to the plunks dealing with those
I'resideiii . made n of the term "com- fntelgn burn rltlzeim w Iiosh activities are
petltlve tariff rate" neee.irily subject , condemned on the ground that the Presl
to change to meet elinngtru ondltlons ( dent had not used language that was
In the vvoild's production and Hade Not , strong iriotigh,
only did it advance this as a leason for He wanted the woid 'blackmail' used,
the appointment of a non-pai bsan tariff but the members of the mmmlttee.
coiumt-siou but .t alo declared tnat i trun tied on any suggestion in change
normal conditions or lair compeniiiui
between American and foreign produe
ers" should be maintain! d "bv an anti
dumping law which would keep the tariff
rates on a f.url.v competitive basis In
times of suiplus production abroad"
lint llrnslle Treatment.
Thls proposed plank received drastic I mlttee occurred over suffrage. Some of
treatment at the hands of the committee, 1 thn Western nietuhets were on tho side,
as will he seen by reference to the tariff of the woni-n, and when the sub-coin-plank
In the platform. Nowhere docs I unltef's plank was presented lo the full
the platform make use of the w ord 1 committee there was Immediate dlsap-
competltlnn Nevertheless, as iom-
parlson with former Deino. r.Uic plat
forms will show, It iloes mark a telaxn
lloi of the indexible attitude which the
ii it tv has hitherto maintained witn re-
peet lo the tariff, according to the pro.
tcctloulsl Di inocr.lis. anil is more m in-
corilanre with the Cnderwood Idea of a
iimiiietltlve tariff.'
A. Mitchell Palmer nnd other Demo
crals who favoied .be .intl-dumping
clause pointed out to-day that hi the
plank dealing with the merchant uiailio
there Is n clause which might pave
the way for iititl-dunivliig law as pin of
the party programme. In this plank
the pait.v goes on record as favoring
measures' that would rcstnte the Amei.
can Hag to the seas nnd also as favor
ing "fuither facilities foi our foieign
commerce, particularly such laws an in iy
he made to remove unfair competition
Ul the dealing of American men hauls
and producers with lompetllois In for
elgn markets."
When the laillf plank came ut before
thu sub-couiliiitlee of nine I. is' uUht
five of the committee wire rrj'-'sed to
the untl. dumping chuiM. These five
were Stono of Missouri, Wuleli of Mon
tuna, Kltzgerald of New York, Martin
nf Tennessee and Stanley of Kentucky.
They wern also Joined by Senator John
Shani Williams of Mississippi,
Though not a member of the tiub.com.
mitten Senator Williams insicleil upon
sitting In during its deliberation, and
even voting with th'' members of ii. Had
his vote been decisive It would of com io
have been protested,
Thor favoring the tnrlff plank .in
originally submitted were Palmer nf
Pennsylvania. Italncy of Illinois, llollla
HupplIM bv Amrrlcnn PrM AoclaMon.
of New llampshue and Point t. i.e of
Mip-K'hio. The majority objected to the
I '',ank '"" submitted on the ground that
,ilt was too much of a dcpartuie from
Democratic principles.
The advocates of the nuti-dumplng
plank I ecnmnic nd.itliiu pointed to tho
"ord'ii,- of the merchant marine plank
.nt.,,,,., i 'in miK ini'lll 111 ineir
attitude. Tills merchant marine nlank
was drawn hv Sivtotaiy McAdoo. It
was allow rd tn stand virtually un
i hanged, while the tailrT plank was
radically levisid and modified. The
tarll! plank ,is u stands wai generally
acieptfil lure as tiuiintuinlua the tradi
tional pnl'ij of the Democratic part.v.
Appioval w..h cxi.icssi'.l that the tariff
plank declares, for a noii-partlsan tariff
commission, whil, the Itepublicau party
meiel) advocates a tariff commission.
tne piani, as prepared ny the President.
This plank was generally regarded ns
being unusually strong and virile and
iiNo ns going fiirtlnr than the itepuhll
can platform In dealing with the lusuc.
right Oxer SiirTrnare,
Til stlffesl tlirht In Die nbitfor.v. ,...v,-
viovnl of it. Some of the members
wanted the parlv to step out beyond tho
Ibpublicniis nnd commit Itself to tho
lonstitiitloiial amendment plan tiiion
which lie women have heen inui..,,t
'pile Ulimi.u ist n tn fu committeo
i,v v,te of ,, tn 21, this hi lug on a
motion made by the Oregon reprerenta-
I've that the constitutional ninindmeiit
provision be substituted
Many members of tin, committed bad
rippatfiitl) b en won over by the icifnt
arguments f ti c stiffrnnlsts ft was
I Pv ,.m
M,, ,
ids., thai some of the lenders,
tier iter Walsh, had uuivinced
lliiniM-lMj, that the women had bivntnu
a political power vvlurli it wns not safe to
'Kin ire Til" behoved th.it tint Democratic
p.ntv, to ii.miio victory, t-hould gout least
ns far as the Republicans. This Is what
the have tried to a, cnmpllsh m the
pi ink ii adnpti d. Until parties an, now
on tec ml ns niipmvlng nf woman mf.
flags, both leaving it to thn states to
deride.
Samuel Ciompcis and the labor repie
pentullves nvjiv.ir to have sunned the
tin otpoiMiMin of many of their demands
tin the hcttciiucut of labor conditions
and for approval of thn eight hour day
for Onvi imnent employees mid tho
pledge for the i nfMrrctnent of the sea
tncn'H act, '
Tlioiwli nWMiivltig of the prlncifiln of
adequate compensation for Indiistdai ac
cidents, the party 111 its platform does
not, liovvevit, pledge Itself to the enict
' ment of a I-Yderil ciniiiens illon law
, wlu"h vvns one of Mr lioinfiers's chief
j flanks Tlio platform. II Is believed,
i contains enough social welfare Ideas a
appeal to the Progressive who may ho
I inclined toward tne Democratic prt'.
3I00KE, OBDUTtATE,
HEADS A REVOLT
Xation.il Committee, How
ever, to Yield to Save
Party Harmony.
SEE ONLY HOPE TX
WIXXLVft MOOSE VOTE:
Wilson Platform Adopted
and Hie Convention
Ends Its Work.
St. Uipis, June Hi. Vnncn McCor
mill'., the Penti') Ivanla near Hull Moose,
who will manage President Wilson's
campaign this year, will enter upon hla
new duties with the knowledge that the
pra Ural men connected with tho Demo
crat. c National Committee look upon
him as an Intruder.
This fart became, nppsrent to-day
when the National Committee met to
put thiough the organization slate out
lined In the telegram rei elved by the
leaders from Mr. Wilson last night. Tho
old leaders were angry over the Prcsl
dent's choice of Mct'ormlck and two of
them gave expression to the feeling of
the majority by starting nn open fight
on tho llson nonilneo.
The revolt In tho National Committer
came lo the surface after the Democratic
convention had adopted tho Wilson plat
form on Anteilcanlsm, preparedness, uf
fiage, tariff and the other issues for
lDl'l nnd had ndjiurned slue die.
The two national committeemen who
voiced their objections were Col. John
.1. McGraw of West Virginia, a good,
fighter, who supported Wilson at H.iltl
niore four e.us ago, and K. II, .Moore of
Ohio.
Marled Plitlit mi XleCormleU.
Mciiiaw ptepared a usolutlon which
lie niinounied lie would oiler providing
that the committee should Ignoie Presi
dent il.son nnd pris'eed to the election
of n' ohaiiman, limiting ihe candidates to
uii inl., is of the Natlot al Committee.
Col Mciiiaw said he had canvassed hla
colli agues ui,i in- lulleveil about twelve
of tin comiultliTin.il would vote against
McCormicU
Tho WiWon bisitenaiiis on the com
mittee Insisted, how.vei. tint not mme
than two or thin- would actually oppose
the Presldiut to the extent of iccordiug
their votes. Tbev at knnwlulgcil that the
hostility among tne ineinbeis was much
stronger than would show In the vote
on the chairmanship
The feeling against Mi 'in niick cropped
out at the tlrst im cling of the com
mittee, which was hi d at I o'clock this
afternoon The Administration people
forced an adjo'it nincn. in tho hope of
bringing about luunioi.y The commit
teo met again it x ,.cl, , ilus evening.
Ill the meant inn th, Wilson leadeis
had been busy , ontci i inc. with 'he In
surgents, pointing out I at thev weie
engaged In an uuccitaiu llg.u at best and
that It would be a had thing for thn
party to begin the c.muKilgii with a ooti
Ust over the Presidents choice of a
national chairman.
Signs nf III Peeling.
Moreover, the Prisidents frlenda
pointed out thai in hoth lh old parties
the nominee for President always has
bten ue, iiided the privilege of naming
his own cainpilKii nianagir nnd that It
would be most iintortuiiato to m ike A
si i ions tight now against the practice.
This argument had Its effei t on sonio of
tho hostile committeemen, but Mcllraw
and Mooro vvem obdurate. They insisted
they would go ahead with their revolt
oven If they stood alouu
There vvns no uouht Pint McOnrmrx
and tho minor othenrs of tho committee
selected by Ihroiriont Wilton will ba
elected, but tho fact Is conceded by the.
President's mends mat tho puahine
through of the klate w".l stir up hard
feeling that is llke'y lo il'.d erpreaeloo
later In the .ariipa.g'i.
The Democrats havo not yet nppolnted
their finance committee, upon wlileli will
Jmolvii the duty ot raising the wind"
for the Wilson tight. That matt-vr will
he taken up hy lienry Morgenthnu end
tho party chieftains In Now York Inter,
The Domourals aro tearful thtl H Id
going to bo a lean year for them.
Hut tint light in tho nation oonv.
mlttee against the election of .NfcCoi-.
mlclt had not gone far beforo Col. Mc
draw had a cliaago of henrt. Ho aroaa
and announced that he wtu new ready
1 to take orders from Woodrow Wilson
i and that lm regretted hn had introduced
I the resolution attacking the Prnsldent'N
I leadership. Nobody could explain what
1 had brought about Mctlruw'a vudaen
nop,
Moore la Olidarato.
Tills left. Mooie as tho only nation!
committeeman who was actually tend
ing the tight against Wilsoiv. Hi l'res.
Ident'H lieutenants did their best to purify
him, but Moor spurned all overtures.
He said that If he accepted tho Presi
dent's slate lie would feel like a serf tak
ing orders. He milled that ho was op
posed to any mini .ntemvtliig to estAb
llsh a "Pn.salcnlial d nasty" and h
warned the national mmmlitoemrn 'h"t
If they allowed President Wilson to hivo
his way in naming all t ,o officers h
(the President) would control the or
ganization so complete!) fo it years lisnc
that he wniud be able to brush all oppn.
sltlon usulo wid to i line bin sucrffcsor
When thu Moore resold' a 'imltine tfix
selection of officers to in, 'iters of t'l"
national committee, a no idenMllv re
buking the P'elliten- u I (file,
tho :l hrciven ' i '"" I
for it
Te four wh csje n ti ;
