I ' .ffU .fUpilfllfppf
NIGHT
EXTRA
uenmg
iMitntv
NIGHT
EXTRA
;0L.cn.-NO. 238
PHILADELPHIA, SATURDAY, JUKE 17, 191 G.
CortttattT. IBIS. Bt int rtiuo Lrwin CouriKt.
DUELS ON DVINA
Ilavs advance
DESPITE FOE'S
STRONGSTAND
f dumber of Austrian Pris
I , oners and Size of Booty
Daily Increasing
m.
. yurt
i .
ll Russian Armies Moving From
lis' r..l.U Ar-t-nan "Rordel' Into Ga-
, i licia Toward Lemborg
'LONDON, June 17. A revolution has
broken out In the Austrla-IIungarlan
province of Bosnia, a Rome wireless dls
pitch says. It adds that the chief of
.the Austrian headquarters has been
Impended. .
PETROGRAD, June 17. Atthough Aus-tro-Hungarlan
resistance has been stiffened
In Oallela by the arrival of German rein
forcements, the Russlnns' contlnuo to make
progress all alone the line. The number
( nrlsoners In tho hands of tho Russians
if U dally Increased by largo batches of cap-
, tive, while tne nooiy is ui '""'
$- quantities mat me louiuim i.u :.. km
feel Its loss very keenly.
Along tho Strypa. In mld-Gallda, bridge
t.ul Dosltlons of tho Austro-Germnns nro
F under heavy Are. Further to tho south, In
li'- W Btikowlna sector, Infantry actions of
Vf ferocious ntenslty aro under way.
&.' Dispatches from tho front dwoll upon the
'&', Increasing vlolenco of tho nrtlllery dueling
i along the Dvlna nlvcr, where tho armies
of.Ffeld Marshal von Hlndcnburg nro fnc
S t Injttio Russians.
f , Whether or not Czernowltz, tho capital
of Bukowlna, has fallen into tho hands of
the Russians has not been officially an
nounced, but unofficial dispatches from
. number1 of sources nil stato that tho
Htisalans either occupy tho city or dom
inate It In such n way that they can en
ter any time they cftoose.
There- Is no slackening In the powcV of.
the Russian drive. Southwest of tho
Vojhynlan. fortress of Lutsk. Russian
troops' are moving ncross tho border Into
, Oatlcla. This is tho army which Is offer
ing, the most serious menaco to tho Gallclan
fortjess of Lemberg.
Siberian. Cossacks aro taking a leading
part In the fighting on this part of tho
front JIany of them nro new troop3 that
, were .trained during the winter, but tho '
War Office makes special mention of tho
brayery;', .they have, shown since the of?
fensjya movement was begun.
, imiYE TOWARD STANISLAU.
.fhe Russians have continued their great
offnjvVfrom the! Kovel region to' the River
Prulh and have captured moro nrlsoners.
s,Weit6f Czefnowltz trjey aro driving toward
swanwian in an cnort to cut the Austrian
lepimunlcatlons between Lemberg and all
IMithern parts of the line. , The- Austrians
ilea, retreating toward the' Carpathians and
inrther Russian successes in tim Wmiii win
8fce them down updn the plains of Hun-
f -Once the Russian forces cross the' Car-
pjUiIans they will be ablo to strike a
Mrjras blow at both Austria and Germany
occupying the rich farming country of
tts Hungarian plains. Tho Centrnl-Powers
W Virtually dependent on the coming har-
KL .renoUBh food t0 cnab' 'hem to con
unue the war. -
rfSPW"" 17The War Office lias
iw?n out the following statement on the
'. tSrm on the EaB' front:
' 'LuS6onR?' ot General von Llnsengen is
' , ?' WH the Russians at Stoched on
' S?Ver 8tyr North of Przeloka parts
- rii.t,?.1?'. of GenernI von Bothmer Is at
, rjlps-wlth tho enemy."
. BUSSIAN ATTEMPT TO CROSS
STIR FAILS, VIENNA REPORTS
rt.12SWA' JunB 17. New combats have
nea alonir th nti.. ri...i .
wording to today's report from tho Austro-
5 ? 5 n,ead1uartcrs Several attempts
failS .?Unlans t0 croS3 'ha River Styr
in,: " Russla"3 suffering heavily,
feffiv p.?rt waa from headquarters yes
May and received hero today. It reads
.m?.nJth.?0Uth Dniester our troops re-
vi,Tn; , enemV 9 cavalry. West of
vciyk the Russians aro making
to7 B'nst our positions. Here we
ltoZl T cfflcJfs and 40 '"en prisoners.
TW i no"lln& t0 report from near
rnopo,. On the whole Volhynlan
tKC ew comba'a have started. On
L .F s.evera' enemy attempts to
SSS .VlverJal,ed- Th enemy, ris '
H, suffered heavy losses.
th?m,?. Itailan ,ront tha Prt c'"18
Sa JSi. "'several Italian attacks and
S.S" ?' no Austrian attacks at
ana inamost.
THE WEATHER
W. ngirady t0, hear 'he country ring
Sw S3 S denunclatln. We never know
Ser whh KWe ltally nre un' 'he spell
vX m u,..broau4 shoulders and sonorous
WiinliS? uUlma'e ruination Is
I ttottra.. ., , ln arm3 open Just around
F cordUnnJ,e" we thl"K a, he does and
-,'?1 ma lofflcnl until , i
the m. a.V, ntl haPPena Blong" and tells
EL? 11 ! ihln? abou' 'he other fellow.
Slv7s perPlexed. Therefore we suit
Isn't it .i. ... .
6 MdldatM S5 Tt' a,,h9u8h all dignified
f m Poa,dIoct'e.. everything sanitary
i W forth th.V IiT ". ,aws' clean "v.
- Wert of m?rt .iSti.hey ,houla "dulee In the
3X i .ff lfllnBln 'ho same time.
ttmosDher. .1, S.Bport that beclouds
Hq U.P.kVe,and,, dJscouraea the sun
- 't seeks, to enlighten us.
W HtUu S,??dtlPia and vicinity
i ""V mtitriu SuShr"" w'""' oe'
LEAGUE ISLAND SCENE OF NAVY DAY CELEBRATION
liiHKr Lh jL ftHo f r i Kl jftftBiLLLLLr P k,ftL9?9MrvM'Sv LB jTSw BBftfti w JftkiiiiiiiiiiiBi I
.r ,...v .,A .v,fcjWfc1wwRS , .. .!W,,v.v., JWf,..
ti&, ,&-, .,4,r
WsifW-XJ
SHIP LAUNCHING
THIS NAVY DAY
MARKS NEW ERA
Huge Transport Gliding
Down Ways Will Be Feat
ure of Celebration
DRILLS AND SHAM BATTLE
Philadelphia's premier position among
the inland ports of America Is being ac
knowledged today.
With this recognition come3 an added
triumph In tho dawn of a new era- In the
history of the Philadelphia Navy Yard,
which, with tho launching of tho 10,000-ton
transport Henderson this nfternoon, as a
fenturo of Its Nnvy Day exerclsos, demon
strates tho ability of facilities and skill to
competo successfully with prlvato ship
building enterprise and at great saving of
tlmo and expense.
Not only naval officers and shipwrights,
but nil Philadelphia, joined today In com
memorating tho dual achievement. Loynl
citizens rejoiced In the splendid demon
stration that ushered In for their native
municipality what promises to be n con
dtantly growing exemplification of tho su
premacy of tho port of Philadelphia.
That other find larger vessels nre to bo
built nt tho local yard citizens and navnl of
ficers agreed. The launching of tho Hender
son, Important In Itself It is hoped Is but
the beginning of that recognition for which
Philadelphia, through Its Congrcssmcn,
trades bodies nnd citizenship generally, has
been battling for years to accomplish.
The navy yard Itself was In gala nttlro
for tho occasion and will remain so until
nearly midnight. Tho crew of every war
vessel In the. station had "dressed ship" nt
sunrise, and from every building floated tho
Stars and Stripes.
GREAT SHIP DECORATED.
Tho gigantic transport, as .ft rested on the
ways preparatory td the launching cere
monies, was decorated with (lags from stem
to stern. Bunting was festooned and draped
throughout the yard and genefal holiday was
kept by officers and men. On Navy Day
last year the keel of tho big vesBel was laid.
This Jubilation was shared by tho civilian
visitors. Their participation was inspired
by the realization that the event thoy had
assembled to witness would launch Philadel
phia far to the front as a naval and com
mercial centre, and that the day, big though
It was. yet was merely Introductory of still
greater accomplishment yet to come.
Captain Robert Leo Russell, U. S. N.,
commandant of the navy yard, had over
looked no. detail for the entertainment nnd
Information of his guests. Navy divers were
on hand to show the visitors how that Im
portant branch of undersea work Is per
formed. The sinking of the submarine F-4 nt
twftftftftftVftkHBftVrfL lKW' !iro .? " SfKSKKiriiAiVmMillt
IsftftftnKwftSiiiaVjiftHBBimB fV !Px4sra V' T1frsiftHiTHifflBBIWHiT
EBBBBALftQBHESfliBBVBBLlAf ? ii,, HT. dr jfr&py fr.XJCftftBjHJjLffIflftBBte'q5BMBWKwK
KVCftY&uMalmSSHBfDSSiSV C UtjaHf t? 'A k -' f Jr S x HK?iBIIHRftU
Continued on rose Four, Colamn Four
FIRE BALLOONS BARRED
ON JULY 4 BY NEW LAW
Both Buyer and Seller Liable to
$200 Fine or 60 Days'
Sentence
Below. Js lis3 CJccVlevo Welllnp; Taylor, great-granddaughter of
'Gerf. -AfCrijbalil Hfcndcrson, U. 'Si 'M. C, who christened tho new- United
Stato transport 'Henderson, named afttr her. ancestor, at tho Phila
delphia Navy Yard today. This was the climax of the day's events.
Above arc seen the winners of theathjetlc contests rccciving'thejr medals. -
JUNIATA VALLEY
FLOODED; PEOPLE
FLEE TO SAFETY
River Rises to 17 Feet.
Worst Damage Since
1889 Disaster
FAST TRAINS IN PERIL
ART1 ATT -nt.. .
' ,,t4AH' tta,kto Wckplec; reward
. .w ,auu(J AlU uu Vafm jS
Buyers or sellers of the familiar Fourth
of July fire balloon, and even those who
have them In their possession, will pay a
fine of 1200 or spend as much as 60 days
In Jail this year If the police catch them.
The existence of a law that slipped by
without comment when It was passed by
the Pennsylvania Legislature In 1315 was
called Into notice today by orders from
Superintendent of Police Robinson to en
force it. The law was operative after
January, 1916, This Is the first Fourth
that cornea under the law's restriction.
The law is designed to prevent fires.
Aware that It would be hard for police to
trace the source of a fire balloon once It was
In the air, those who framed the act em
bodied a severe penalty. The maximum Is
the 1200 fine, the 60-day term In Jail, or
both. Superintendent Robinson Issued an
order this afternoon, with the approval of
n, . -tt7ilcii nrriHnEF the DQllCO
IJireuiur ..,."., -.... - ,
throughout the city to enforce the law
strictly. . n. '
The text OI me proaiumuu )"""-'
"It shall be unlawful to sell, buy, exchange
or have In possession any balloon made or
Wended to contain fire. This apt does not
apply to balloons In which a human beinp
ascends."
CHKMUtfG VALLEY CROPS
DAMAGED DY BIO RAIN
Towns of Westfield, noxville and Elk
land, Pa. Inundated
CORNING. N. Y.. June 17. Damage es
timated at ?00.000 has been done by floods
In the Chemung Valley, which have resulted
from cloudburst. Large sections ot the
vmTges of Westfleld and Knoxvlllo and
Elkland, Pa., were. Inundated.
Trafflo Is Impeded and much damage has
been done to crops
1 British Liner Afire
...r.r,i T.,r,a lTKlre was dls-
covered today upon the British liner Clan
! which was anchored In 'he Mersey
River. She was tU burning fiercely this
iV.JV,,, The Clan Ross Is a 597'on
ship hailing- from Glasgow.
HUNTINGDON. Pa., June 17. Since the
devastating flood of 1889 the Juniata Val
ley has not suffered as much damage as
that caused by tho present widespread
sweep of waters. An Incessant rain of
three days' duration has swollen the Juni
ata River and RaystoWn Branch to sweep
ing proportions. The Juniata River has
risen to a height of-17 feet nnd residents
were forcod to fleo to the hills for safety
and had to convert the property of the
Pennsylvania Railroad Into temporary
abodes of shelter
South Huntingdon Is submerged to a
depth of Beven feet, but It Is not thought
that the State Reformatory, situated In this
section, will suffer.any damage. Many cat
tle have been caught by the rising stream
and drowned. Heavy loss has been suf
fered In the destruction of growing crops,
outbuildings, fences and stock.
Three landslides on the Pennsylvania
Railroad, west of here, were discovered In
time to avert serious train wrecks. The
rivers this morning continue to rise.
Thousands of dollars' damage has been
caused throughout Blair County by the
floods. The Chicago mall train, over the
Pennsylvania lines, ran- Into a landslide
east of tho Spruce Creek Tunnel last night,
derailing the locomotive, but po one was'
Inlured. because of the fact that tne tram
was proceeding under caution signals. The
train was delayed two hours,
Two feet of water covered the double
tracks of the" Petersburg-cut-off for a mile
at Alexandria, where the Juniata River
overflowed Its banks . and Inundated the
surrounding country.
All tralllo was stopped last night on the
qald Eagle Valley .Railroad, which runs
between Tyrone and Lock Haven, three
bridges having been washed away or dam
aged. Landslides' covered the tracks at
many points. Landslides also virtually
closed the Bellwood division, which runs
from Bellwood to Punxsutawney, and all
available men have been hired to remove the
Obstructions.
Fireman Killed as Bridge Collapses
HARRISBURO,- June 17. Harry Kauff
man, a fireman, was killed and A- O. Chll
cohe, an engineer, was fatally Injured when
a bridge over which a Tuscurrora Valley
Railroad trallf was passing collapsed, near
East Waterford, today.
The-rains had washed out one of tho
abutments. The three pars attached to the
locomotive were badly wrecked. All of
the passenger escaped serious Injury, al
though they were severely shaken up. The
locomotive fell Into the creek.
PENN CREWS'
CHANGES DEALT
A SEVERE BLOW
Rain and Rough Water on
Hudson Virtually Elimi
nate Red and Blue
SO DECLARES JOE WRIGHT
Record of Winners at
Poughkeepsie Since 1900
Time.
tr. Winner. r.iln. fee.
1000 Pennsylvania. . . . 19:44 3-5
1901 .... Cornell 18 :53 1-5
1902. . . . Cornell 19 :03 35
1903.... Cornell 18:57
1004'. .-. .Syracuse 20:22 3-'5-
1005 Cornell 20:29 2-5
190G Cornell 19:36 4-5
1907. . . .'Cornell 20:02 3-5
1908. . . .Syracuse 19:34 1-5
1009.... Cornell 19:02 .
1910. . . .Cornell 20:42 1-5
1911. . . .Cornell 20:10 45
1912. . . .Cornell 19:31 2-5
1913. . . .Syracuse 19:28 3-5
1914. . , .Columbia 19:31 2-5
1915. . . .Cornell 20:36 3-5
POUGHKEEPSIE, N, Y. June 17 An
unkind fate, In fact a real Jinx, appeared
this morning and slapped Joseph Wright,
Pennsylvania's rowing coachi on both
Cheeks. It came In the shape of wind and
rain, the former prevailing In plte.tof the
vsual contrary situation whlch'the (wo play
with the surface of the Hudson, and It
gives eyery prpmlse of ruining Pennsylva
nia's fpndest hopes of victory In any of
the races this afternoon. For be It known
right now, before alibis are alibis that
Joseph Wright stated to the representative
Of the Eveninq Ledoer no later than at
supper time last night that his crews would
be about out of the races If the water was
rough, simply because they have had no ex
perience n handling their oars on a tur
bulent surface this spring.
There was no alibi meant by this state
ment of Wright's j it was simply a fact that
came out of, the general conversation, but
it comes clearly to the surface this morn
ing and presages gloom for the Quakers,
for tha reason that if the same southeast
wind continues all afternoon tha surface
of tha 'Hudson will be a mass of tossjng
whltecapa apd swells because. a that tme
the tide will be running toward the pcean
and, therefore, bucking the winds.
HOPE FOR DOWNPOUR.
Of course, It the rain continues as pre
dicted, and the showers and drizzles of
the morning turn to a heavy downpour, they
will cast no gloom upon the Quakers, for
heavy downpours act as oil upon troubled
waters nd make them placid and calm.
Therein rests Penn's hopes, and those who
pray for Just this thing will be contributing
Continued on Pate EUitn, Column lour
QUICK NEWS
CINCINNATI.. 10 00 00 0 ,
PHILLIES 0 0 0.0 0 0
Demnrce and Burns; Tonoy nnd Wingo
ATHLETICS... 020
DETROIT 0 0 3
Myers and Schnng; Cunuinghnm nnd Stnnngo.
CORNELL 3
PENN O
COL. ASTOR'S WIDOW TO WED, REPORT SAYS
NEW YORK, June 17. Mrs. Madeline force Astor, widow of
John Jncob Astor, will be mnrrlcd next week lo Willlnm X. Dick, a
bunker, the Brooklyn Times says this uflenioon.
HUGHES' INCOME TAX MESSAGE ATTACKED IN HOUSE
VASHINGTON, June 17. Hcprcsont.itivo Borland, of Missouri,
in the House today nttneked the Hughes message to the New. York
Legislature in 1010 disapproving tho Stnto income tnx amendment,
sent while Mr. Kugcs wns Governor of the Slntc. Kuprcseutntlva
Holland called attention to the fact that most of the corporate wenlth
of the country is centered in Eastern States, notably Now York, and
chnrgWl thnt the Hughes message opposing the tux had some con
nection with this fact. The messnge wns nttneked in the House iast
week by Representative Harrison, of Mississippi.
. FOUR HURT WHEN AUTO HIT.S PEDESTRIANS
TRENTON, N. J., -Juno 17. Four persons were injured today
when tho automobile of Dr. E. H. Ginnelly ran into a party of six on
tho White Horse road. The most seriously hurt wns Mrs. Jacob
Bnuu, who wns taken to St. Francis Hospital. Her son Walter was
trtken to the snme institution. The accident occurred nt rAout 0
o'clock. Doctor and Mrs. Ginnelly wore driving to Ynrdvillo and,
owing1 to the storm, wns unable to see the group. '
FAMOUS GERMAN FLYER REPORTED KILLED
. . . ... . . .' ....--
LONDON, Juno 17. Lieutenant Boelkc, ono of tho most famous
aviators hi .the German army, is reported. to hr.vc been shot down1 by
lloger Illblcre, a Trcush airmr.n, nnd. killed.
TWO LARGE GERMAN STEAMSHIPS SUNK IN BALTIC
v
COPENHAGEN, June 17 Two large German steamships were
sunk in tlio Baltic on Friday by' mines or submnriues.
JAMAICA RACING RESULTS
First race, 3-year-olds, purse, selling, C500, Q furlongs Brooks,
115, Shilling, 4 to 1, 8 to 5 and 4 to 5, won; Dolinn, 107, HfTynes; 8
to 1, 3 to 1 and 8 to 5, econdj Grr.sp, 107, McDermptr, 10 to 5 0 to 5
and 3 to 5, third. Time, 1:15 2-5.
Second race, 3-year-olds nnd up, 500 ndded, mile and 70 yards
Republican, 113, Lyke, 3 to 5 out, won; Illuminator, 101, Garner, 7
to 1, 0 to 5 out, second; Transit, 113, Shilling 0 to 5, 2 to 5 out, third.
Time 1 :40 3-5. -
OTTAWA, RACING RESULTS
l'lr& t race, purse $500, maidens, 2-ycnv-olds, 3 1-2 furlnogs
Pas, 112, Parrington, $4.80, !J3 nnd $2.40, won; Isabella, 112, Mott,
$3,30 and $2.50, second; Dandy Fay, 100, Wol&lenholm, 12,50, third.
Time 1.02, J. W. Hunley, Recorder, Orjnna. and Jfcllif? G s,lz ;us.
''-'A -.
VON DER TANN REPORTED HIT IN JUTLAND BATTLE
LONDON, Juno 17. A Central News dispatch from Tho Hague says that the
German battle cruiser von der Tann was badly damaged In the Bea fight off Jutland
and has Just been towed into Wllhelmshaven for repairs, The von der Tann Is a
19,400-ton ship, mounting 11 and 6 Inch guns. She was put In commission in 1909.
FAY, GERMAN PLOTTER, ASKS TO BE DEPORTED
NEW YORK. June 17. Lieutenant Robert Fay, sentenced to eight years In
the Federal prison nt Atlanta for plotting to attach bombs to vessels carrying
supplies to the Entente Altes, admitted today that he liad written to President
Wilson asking that he be deported to Germany Instead of being sent t prison. He
is n the Tombs. In his letter. Fay said, he asked that he be returned to his
native land to "rehabiltate" himself by offering his life to his country. The punsh
ment he would receive for deserting from Germany, even to "serve the German
cause" in the United States, he declared, would be more severe than the prison
term (o which he was sentenced. "If my life has to be wasted," he said, "I might
as well waste it for my country and be of some use to somebody. So far as punish
ment is concerned, one day of drum fire I-j r - " "i 71 years Jn prison."
CAMPAIGN TO MAKE CHICAGO DRY IN 1917
CHICAGO, June 17. Launching of a campaign to close all Qhlcago saloons
in 1917 has been announced by the Dry Chicago Federation. A petition for an
election next spring under the local option law is to be circulated. .
BRITISH DESTROYER SUNK IN ENGLISH CHANNEL
LONDON, June 17- The torpo16boat destroyer Eden sank In the English
Channel last night immediately following collision, the Admiralty officially an
nounced today. The Eden displaced 555 tons, was 220 feet Ions and had a speed
of 26.2 knots. Her armament was four 3-Inch guns and two 18-inch torpedo
tubes. She was built in J903. .
PltldUJ 027E CENT
WAR IN MEXICO
NEAR AS U. S. IS
TOLD TO HALT
Carranza Orders Pershing to
Move Nowhere Except
Toward Home
THREE MEXICANS SLAIN
Band Makes Raid Near San
Benito and Infantry Takes
Up Chase
NEW ORLEANS, June 17. Not.
withstanding that the relations between
the United States and Mexico are daily
expected to snap, Mexico's entire navy,
with the exception of one transport ia
in port here for repairs. The guns aro
dismounted, and (he ships could be
seized without a shot. In the hold? of
the vessels arc stored large quantities'
of arms and ammunition. The fleet ,
consists of the armored gunboats Pro
grcsso and Zarmgosa and the transport
Atlanta.
WASHINGTON. June 17. Mexicans will
attack American troops If any more of the
latter croso tho border, or "If thero la any
attempt to move any troops," nccordlng to
a messnge Gencrnl Trcvlno, Carranza com
mander In Chihuahua hns telegraphed to
General Pershing.
General Bell, nt El Paro, telephoned the
Information to General Funston today, and
It waa In turn sent by Funston to the1 War
Department.
"General Bell telephoned that General
Trovlno had telegraphed Pershing that If
nny mnra troop.i cross the border they Will
be ntticksd, or If any attempt to movo any
moro troops Is made these will be at
tacked." said Funston's telegram.
Acting Secretary of War Scott, In an
nounclng tho message, emphasized tho fact
that the word had not como from Pershing
himself. It was taken, however, as official
confirmation of Trevlno's previously report
ed action. Inasmuch as General Dell mads
his Statement flatly and did' not qualify It
with nny suggestion that the Trcvlno Mes
sage was merely rumored.
Another mprirnBo revealed that Major
Gray 'had returned lo San'. Ignactd, utter
having crossed Into Mexico yesterday. The
message explained that the crossing, was
because of report's of more bandit actlvl'
ties, but added that the Mexican authori
ties had offered- to co-operate nnd that the"
bandit gang In thnt vicinity wns broken.
, Army olllcers here confidently expert, rt
Urventl6n In Mexico. Trjey did. hot at
tempt to disguise' their belief that 'inter
vention would be forced on this. Govern
ment before the end of the month.
. President Wilson will immediately con
fer with Secretary of. War Raker when the
latter arrives from St. Louis .this evening,
and pla'ns' will' be outlined 'for ''defemuve"
actlon In Mexico and on the border; Ar
rangements for the conference were mads
by telegraph.
President Wilson also expects to confer
with Senator Ollle James, permanent chair
man of tho Democratic National Conven
tion, nnd other leaders of the Administra
tion's political affairs. Among tHem will
be Senator Stone, of Mlsnourl, chairman of
the Foreign Relations Committee.
The arming of Mexican civilians at
Juarez by General Frnriclsco Gonzales,
commander of the Carranza garrison
there ; the threat sent General Pershing
by Genoral Trcvlno at Chihuahua City,
and laet night's raid east of San Benito,
Tex., all have resulted In a belief that
within the next few .days the .Mexican au
thorities are going to droD all nretensa of
being "friendly" to Americans, either sol.
dlcrs or civilians.
Assistant Secretary of War Ingraham
received during the nleht several code mes.
sages from the border and communicated
tne contents to secretary of State Lansing.
Continued on I'ate Tour. Column Three
DAUGHTER'S PR031PTNESS
SAVES HER FATHER'S LIFE
Agen Man and Boy Discovered Uncon
scious From Gas
Promptness nnd quick lhpught on the part
of 11-year-old Mary Boyle today saved
the lives of her father and baby, brother
after she discovered them unconscious tn
bed beside an open gas burner In their
home, 810 West Schiller street. The two
victims afe In the Samaritan Hospital,
where they were revived under pulmotor
treatment.
Edward Boyle, the father, did not ap
pear nt breakfast time, Mary went up
stairs to the bedroom, which he shared
with the 3-year-old child, who has been 111.
The gas, left burning all night on account
of the baby's Illness, had blown out, and
the .two occupants of the room were un
conscious In the bed. Mary turned oft the
gas supply, and opened the window before
she called neighbors to her aid. Her
prompt action, the phyBlclans say, was In
strumental in saving the lives ot her father
and brother.
ST. LOUIS STRIPPED OF GLAMOUR
OF DEMOCRATIC CONVENTION
Delegates Have Departed and City Is
Resuming Normal Aspect
ST,V LOUIS, Juna 17. The last vestige
ot pomp and display Incident to the Demo
cratic National Convention faded from St
Iouls today. All the tile hats, the frpek
coats and the banners and flags that have
made St. Louis the political capital of the
United States for the last week were gone.
Virtually none of the convention visitors
or delegates were tn the city at noon to
day. Those that did not succeed in get
ting away last night departed this fore
noon outgoing trains were crqwded.
Workmen early began to dismantle thf
Interior decorations ot Convention Halt,
No New Justice to Be Named Now
WASHINGTON. June 17 Appointment
of an Associate Justice of the Suprems
Court of the United States to AH the va
cancy caused when Justice Hughes rer
signed to accept the Republican' nomination
for the presidency, -probably will not ba
made before early autum.n, U was stated at
the Department of Justice today. Tb court
now is In recess for the summer, so rut rea
son exists for an early appointment
I
ffl
' '
The Gods erf Mars," by Edgar Rice Burroughs, a Sequel tq "Under th Moons of Mars," Begins in Today's Amusement Section
a
