LMIQUEMQUE i:fORNIXG JOURNAL.
city
EDITION
CITY
EDITION
THTKTY.iSKVKNTH VKAJ.
VOL. CI
FIRST CHIEF'S v GZMa3llillMBFR'nf TflPS
IIUIIIUI.II Ul I ULU
Albuquerque, New Mexico, Saturday, June 17, 1916.
FIRST CHIEF'S
OFFICERS IKE
THREAT AGAINST
BTEB ' STATES
THE WEATHER iVORKCAST.
Denver, June IB. New Mexico:
Saturday and Sunday generally fair;
not much change In temperature.
LOCAL WlUTIIElTnEPOnT.
For twenty-four houra, ending at
p. m. yesterday:
Maximum temperature,' AO degrees;
minimum, 50 degrees; raniie, 40 de
grees; temperature at 6 "p. in., 85 de
greos; southwest wind; clear,'
source to confirm the report of Gen
eral Trevlno's notion.
Keeent troop movements in Chihuu
hua have led officials here to fear
that the de facto commanders were
preparing for some hostile move,
The Mexican -forces now are .'dis
tributed in detachments of considera
ble strength on two linen, conversing
from points near the border east and
west of General Pershing's line, and
meeting at a point south of his field
bane at Namlquipa. ' The effect has
been to enclose the American troops
in a gigantic V. . ,
This disposition of Carranza forces
has 'been one of the bases of suspicion
here as to his friendly intentions.
While the Mexicans ore so posted, of
ficials declare they cannot be in good
faith conducting any campaign against
bandits, but they can keep close watch
upon the movement of General Per
shing's men. The breaking up of
these forces Into small parties to soour
the country for outlaws is one of the
conditions which would be demanded
by the United States before the Amer
ican expedition would be recalled.
Army officers have no fears for the
safety of General Pershing's forces.
AMERICAN hhu'Kk no matter what develops. The expe-
r PIT DOWN NEW RAID :dltion is amply supplied and General
" Pershing recently Inspected in person
ltrownsville, Tex., June 1G. the disposition of his trops The st rat -
United States troops came upon ,glc points at the base camps and
a band of between twenty-five along the line of comunfeations nre
and thirty Mexican bandits about protected by entrenchments.
ten miles east of San Benito, ) The report of General Trevlno's ac-
Tex., late tonight and after ex- tlon gave rise to renewed speculation
changing a few shots the Mexi- J, as to the course to be taken by Presi-
cans scattered. It is reported ;aent Wilson to make certain the safe
's three Mexicans were killed. So t. of the border. Tha entire national
far as known there were no
Trevino and Ricaut Declare
Further Troop Movements
by Americans Will Precipi
tate Hostilities,
EL PASO SOLDIERS
ORDERED TO QUARTERS
Placards Ordering Juarez Citi
zens 'to' Drill in Order to
" Repel Invasion Prompts Pre
cautionary Measure,
SO FAR BAGGED
Br CZAH S MEfJ
REACHES 170,000
Russian. Offensive In' South
west Being . Pressed For
ward With Undiminished
Vigor, Petrograd Reports.
CLAIMS OF BRITONS
AND TURKS CONFLICT
London Says Invaders Ad
vance in Kut Region; Con
stantinople Advices Assert
Repulse of Enemy, 1
American casualties.
;KMV OFFICIALS NOT
MOVED IJV THREAT
guard in effect haa been under walt-
' lng orders for several weeks and some
1 nffinln) thoucrht it nnssihlti n. (drone
jforce of guardsmen would be prompt
,., MO....N. joU.n.l...c,.l ... - I 'y ordered to the border if official dis.
Chihuahua City. Mexico. June l.-Shrl.conflrmed th"
nan Tnnintn fTrvvinn rtimmanamir vllJ ...w.,,
tlie Carranelsta army of the north, to
day advised Gen. J . J. Pershing,
American expeditionary commander,
that anv movement of American
troops from their present lines to the'
south, east or west, would he consid
ered a hostile act and a signal , to
commence warfare. General Trevino
acted upon specific instructions from
General Carranza. -
Reports received from Gen. Alfredo
Uiraut, constitutionalist commander
at Matamoras, said that he had sent
troops in pursuit of the bandits who
recently raided American soil near
San Ignacio, Tox., and who have re
rros.sed to Mexico. ' He added that If
American troops attempt to follow
.' them across the border PR will nttac k
wtfjl'in, hjlTOedlat'eljv., J V'i ,
IX PASO TROOPS TO
HE 1IKI.D IXDF.K AttMS
Pithy Paragraphs
' from Platform
" :.!' -r
'lntetventioi,- implying us It does,
military .mibjufetitloii, Is icvoltlng u
the people "CJthe Vnltrd States, not
withstanding Ine provocation to that
course has bf 01 great, and RliouM
be resorted t(i if at all. only ns n last
resort."
II lid
this
or
"We condntjin all alliances
combinations! ef individuals In
country of whatever nationality
descent, who agree and conspire to
gether for thelpurpos,. of embarrass
ing or weakeulig our goveriiniem or
of improperly
otir public re
or-negotlatihit
er.". .
nflueiicing or coercing
resentatives In dealing
iwith any foreign pow
Dally by Carrier or MaJL 60
Month. Mingle Copieo, f
WOMEN'S RIGHTS
CAUSE HARMONY
OF CONVENTION
TO BE MENACED
El Paso. Tex.. June 16. All Amer
lonn troops stationed in LI Paso and '". ,,, A,,
...I-,..,.. ,.,-.lurf.,l in niuirfers 1 ".."o
1ST MOSNIM JOURNAL (eiCIAL kUKD WIMI
. The forward drive of the Russian
armies In Volhynla,-Gallcla and Ruk
owina continues with apparently un
diminished successes. From tho
Pripet marshes southward to Czerno
vvitz the forces of General Brusiloff,
according to reports from Petrograg,
are throwing back counter-attacks and
are advancing. In thirteen days tho
Russians have taken prisoner almost
170,000 men and have captured lm- J
mense stores of war booty, says the;
Russian war office,
Rattles southeast of Lutsk, between
Kozln and Tarnovka and northwest of
Uuczaci have brought further suc
cesses to the Russian arms. In an
action on the Bluiuhevka river. outh
east of Lutsk, more than COO men
wore captured after the attacking
Russians had forded the river. The
., , ' ru , I fighting continues northwest of. Buck
Kl Paso Tex.. June 16. Dispatches , afz w,)(lre the G(,rmang are co.op(II..
''We cortimtnid to the American
pcoplo the splendid diplomatic ic
otrles or our infest president, who has
preserved thff,;Vltal interests of our
government aud lis citizens and kept
nit out of war. 1oodrow Wilson
standstoday , jlio Rreatest American
of his generation."
. ,. ! ; .
"This is u critical hour in the his
tory of Anserlci, a critical hour In the
liiutovy of tho world. I'pon tho record
above set fortlt which shows great
constructive achievement in fullntw
lng out u consistent policy for our
domestic and internal development;
upon the record; of the democratic ad
ministration ' hich has maintained
the holiortbr dignity and the Inter
ests of the.--l.fnted Htates. and at the
oire tlmejretalned the respect and
friendship "of ftU the nations of the
world, atpl'Upon (he great policies for
tho future 'trMigtlienliig n( th( uf
of our country, the nilnrgement of
I Many Delegates Try to Howl
Down Defenders of Admin
istration Plank, Which
Eventually Is Adopted,
SUFFRAGISTS SEE
VICTORY IN OUTCOME
Leaders Believe Democratic;
Declaration Is Much More
Favorable Than That of Re
publican Party,
V unNIN JOURNAL MCIAL LIAMR WIMI
St. Louis, June 16. The democratic
our nnttohal vision and the ennobling national convention finished Its work
of our international relations, as set. today by adopting a party pint form
forth above, wrt appeal with confi
dence to tfce voters of the country.
from. Chihuahua City that General
Trevino had notified Oeneral Per
shing that any movement of his com
mand other than in a northerly di
rection would bo construed as a hos
tile act, aroused no apprehension
among army officials here tonight. It
was asserted ?that the expeditionary
command is amply prepared to care
for itself in any eventuality.
A compact line of communication
the' field headquarters at Namiquipa,
and at the field lac at El Valle and
extending from the border at Colum
bus, N. M.. to Jsanviqulpft, about 20
mtles south, has. been drawn in.' . the.
last few weeks. Ruse quantities of
food, forage, ammunition and other
supplies have been concentrated at
Colonia DuUan. It was pointed out
also that beyond occasional sorties
1-
VILLISTAS CUT
OFF PRISONERS
V , T,T 1, 1 , i I rPs in Mexico have been In
tonight, to be held under arms until ... . , ' , ....
...... .. . ,. n.. n,i i ac.ive mr sfvrrai wrens,
lllllMC llUljtr. i Ut- uiurii
reportB to military headquarters that
placards printed in Spanish had been
lontert In Juarez instructing citizens
to gather at designated points daily to
receive military instruction that they
may be prepared to repel possible in
vasion. . The notice was signed by
Jesus Valdez, a private citizen, who
said he wished his people to "be
prepared in the event of a break with
the United States." At the office of
Jen. George Hell, Jr., commandant,
no explanation of the order was given,
It being asserted that the orders were
"mere precautionary measures."
Included In the troops ordered to
quarters were several companies of
infantry which have been encamped
in the streets of the city. The provost
nuard which for severu! months has
patrolled the streets of Kl Pnso in co
operation with the local police, being
the only soldiers remaining in the
downtown district.
A statement issued today by Tom
Lea, mayor, after an investigation into
the recent firing of shots at two mu
nicipal officials of El Paso from the
Mexican side of tho line, suld that If
"y further shots are fired at police
men or officials they will be returned.
As a further precaution a-gainsl
trnuhle, street cur traffic from Kl
Paso to Juarez was stopped tonight.
Itepott of a Mexican raid near
famitiiln, about fifteen miles north of
here, caused some excitement this
evening locally until it developed that
the trouble was a private affair be
i tween Mexican ranch hands. Two
Mexicans, after killing a fellow Mex
ican In a quarrel, were chased by a
sheriffs posse Into Old Mexico.
ating with the Austrians, but the Kus
sians report the capture here thus far
of 6,000 men from the Teutons.
Austrinns Are lAtrontallod.
Attempts of the Austrlans and Ger
mans to take the offensive on many
sectors of the long front were repuls
ed, according to Petrograd. The Rus
sian war office also chronicled the re
pulse of attacks in tho region of 8o
knl, southeast of Kovel, one of the ob
jectives of the present Russian drive.
Rerlln reporU the capture of 400 Rus
sians during an attack on a German
position north of Przewloko. ;
Around Verdun the French and
M1HIWI m
IIS i IIW ULUII
HIS SPOUSE AND
RANCHER HANGED
exactly as approved by President Wll
son and submitted by the resolutions
committee, including the plank.t on
.'Americanism and favoring woman
I stiff r age, but not until the liMimony of
! its three days' session has been rlp
jpled with a row over the stiffiage
! plank.
j No voice wns raised against the vig
jorous declnrntlons of the American-
llsm plank. At one time It looked as
lit the suffrage plank hadi been lost,
ibut after Senator Walsh of Montana,
!had told the convention that Presi
dent YY lbon himself considered It vital
to party success, It was voted into the
platform bv a ballot 8SN 1-2 to
: i si 1-2.
Adopted Without Roll Call
The whole platform then was
adopted without roll cull
chorused the delegates.
Shouts ,iM,e inn
Finally, Ignoring lesser outbreak
and shouting above the din and con
fusion, Pittm'in managed to get
tnroii;;h with his speech.
it remained for Senator Walsh to
save the administration plank. In an
Impassioned speech he swept ailde
the smaller questions which hud been
Injected into the fight, tolj the dele
gates that President Wilson himself
knew the plunk was In the platform
and coitstderod it essential there for
party victory.
Quotes Clevcluiitl.
"Whatever your opinion may be,"
he said, "we shall never be anything
but a discordant and divided party
unletts we surrender some of our con
victions to the wisdom of a majority.
Here you are confronted, as one of
our famous leaders said, 'with a con
dition, not a theory.' The twelve suf
frage states represent ninety-one votes
In the electoral college. Every politi
cal party has made this declaration In
some form or other. It becomes a
simple question of whether you will
Incur the enmity of these ' women.
There Is no possibility of losing a sin
gle vote If you adopt this majority
plunk beeausi, every other parly has
done the same.
The. Short ami I'gly.
"I ask you," he cried, "if you're go
ing to put a resolution In hero that
is a lie. You can't adopt this minority
report without stultifying yourselves."
Senator Wnlsh then explained that
the president knew about the suffrage
plunk idtid milled :
"He believes it vital to his Bliecess
that It stay there. I ask you who is
there here who Is wiser or more pat
riotic thut he?"
Xnlurc sevms In Sympathy.
While the fight hud been going on
a thunderstorm burst and when the
row down on the convention floor was
at Its height the storm reached its.
climax. Tlie booming of the thunder
mixed with the rouring shouts on the
STATES I D
PASS LAWS FOR
EDA
L
SUFFRC
E,
SAYS PLATFORM
Pronouncement of Democratic
Convention Is Similar to
Plank Adopted by Republi
can Party,
AMERICANISM IS
STRONGLY ADVOCATED
Divided Allegiance Branded as
Disloyalty; Intervention in
Mexico Described as '"Last
Resort."
-ill , . j ,1. i - :iiiouea wiiuuui ron cuu.
OeleDrated' . Wyoming Case: as went into me platform the
; Gomes jto, End;' Defendant1 fvor the exiensi
on of the
franchise to the women of this coun-
i;'lnA!t., i- r. franchise to the w
IllOdllliy IU CAOUbtJ try state by state, on the same terms
Cold-blooded Crime,
uh to the men
j The woman suffrage lenders consld
lered It a much more favorable declar-
J atlon than they got from the republl-
( mmkim jdukNAi triciAL uuu wikii can convention; they threw till their
Rawlins, Wjro., June 16. W'llliud force behind it and won the support
Flanders, convicted wife-murderer, ; of the administration leaders w ho
h. i, Mniini,. iwre found fighting for them when
early today. The-drop fell at 2:54,
Ho was pro noun- til dmd at 3:07:20.
r landers was awakened from a
EARS, IS REPORT
manual ao ii si
ing Men Say,
danger threatened.
Too Tired to Uiiail Platform.
lT.iianrrt ami wnrri from mlniubt
German armies were Inactive during sound sleep at :.ri0 ynd taken by 'session, the platform-makers wore
the day. there having been only inter- . Warden Alston direct to the death- not readv with their report until uf
mlttent bombardments. Paris says, house. Jteruoon when Senator Stone, sleepless
it has been confirmed that the French i vi, ,,..... ,.r ;.,. . .i i.i h...,.- i..,.i.
u , I "ii , H n' u mi nil Lion louitT I nun inn IJ iioin.-i, i"vi ihv
attack of Thursday on the slope south lnf)4 wjf HmI .hbor, .Samuel Aultz, speaker's stand and explaining that he
or i.e Mori iiomme resulted in tne from ambush, July U, 19H. The was too tired to read tho document,
captur? of German trenches on a .hnntini i.,i .,, ., i ,,,... ,..,. ,,,: ,ui, ,n u.,n.,,, viui
front about two-thirds of a mile. Flanders' ranch unci Huletl, W yo. iof Montana and Senator IIollls of New
'.""J i T'.u Ia According to evidence offered by Hampshire.
WiIuIp London claims further tid- ,h ,.-.,,,,. , ,u.. ......i ...i.i m,' , f, i..,,,, ......a
Liini... fn- tl.a IlLlHuh fornnu O, o-!.V"V -"." "v .! i.fi'i. ill, nui 1 1 nr iiiiiih w u"
luwimii i a i V , , , ;between the two men was accentuated ; In the air. Bverybody was keyed up
T.-ul J,on.LJ. . h-iy lho "PP'aranee of Aultz t the to It and when, at the conclusion of
LZ1, "o" I' ""Sri "ln Flanders ranch, while Flanders wuhe reading of the platform, Martin
and tho closing words of his pleas for
the administration plank swept a
change of sentiment over tho crowd
ns welcome to tho suffragettes as the
wave of cool, refreshing air that pour
ed down into the hot, reeking Coli
seum.
Thore were renewed cries of "Vote,
vote," but they were not shouts for
the defeat of the plank. As the clerks
called the roll of states the votes top
pled into the column supporting the
plunk as the committee had written
it so fast that tho defeat of the sub
stltutc was assured before the call had
gone a dozen states. At the close of
tlie roll call tne wnole platform as
written was adopted and after dispos
ing of some formalities the convention
adjourned slue die at 3:11 o'clock.
Rritish have retired from within the
range of the Turkish guns. The oc
cupation of Imam Mansura on the
choking his wife following a refusal to , I.oin.iKiiey, of lioston, it delegate,
sign a deed to permit
him to sell claimed the attention of the chair, it
south bank of the Tigris and the push- .'"V , ... ,,' V . , . a , u. V, , t . , I
ing forward of Rritish trenches to,t( b' Mw. ! hinder, appenlwl to Aiilu fight and it was several minutes before
within 200 yards of the Turks at San-il?. accompany her home. 1-ater Mrs. the shouts of approval and cries of
nayyatt on the north bank of the ' FI:mlers aml ,u'r n-your-old son, Mr. disapproval could be stilled sulflclent
Tlgris, are claimed bv London. Oti'an1 Alri1- in separate vebi-;ly to hear that he wanted to put the
the other hand the Turks say the'01''8 started fur Jlulett, iconvention on record as sympathizing
Rritish camp has been removed from! Wife Plomls tor Life. wtth "the people of Ireland."
Felahie. nn the TiirrtH helow Kiit-el- Fl.mders hv a nhnri nn( , h mntrh ,hn i '''Isli S.vliiHltlli.,r Sliiclclie,l.
,,, ,.. lAmara. owing to the activity of the! hills reached a point on the road the I mit him, roared a Baltimore
I Turkish guns nglnst it. j four must. pass. As they approached .delegate, and the convention hall
MlltihtfH ParranrktTK WprP Br'l'-"n torcea operating in the east-IFIanders stepped onto the highway, iro',,''(' w,h 'a,l,K.h,Vr' , , ,
IVIUlliaiCU I dllL-iaida VCIC)(,rn nart ot f;prman ,,-, am,.. iav;norMiiii Anlc wlih in. mh ,.,! .i,i: The real fight broke Immediately
Cnni Rani a rAinimado further advances and have oc-;iim. turned uiion his wife and shot I after, however, when Governor Fer-
IMUI UClll uaui iw vjuiii cupil,rt two villages. Near the coast her while on her knees, pleading for iuon of Texas, who headed the ml
nil- i.i i. .no nu.i- uinrn nuiunnu oo lllf. Ilt made nil eilort tO mOP'St niMi" '
aiso nave sie.ea positions in tne vic-.fion and Mrs. Aultz, who fled but re-!""" h1"" """j inuiuin
toria Nyanza sector. turned to hi ranch miwI n.:.'ii,..i the I'n which to present it.
larrival of officers. I Tn'" P'ok offered by the minority
IH SKIWS PFXirntATK IIITIIKHTO; Tl,n c., was irnnrrr. frm was this:
IM5ROHKN Al'STRIW tKNTKK, Crook countv to Hheridan on channe "Tl,f ilemocrutlc party has nlwny
of venue nnil thn li li.l 1...I.I in Tw...n.. ;sioon lor ine sovereignly 01 i no sev
Till :V NO'S TURK AT
WIMj not rk rkgardkd
Washington, June 16. There were
tin indications here tonight that the
administration's determination to con
tinue the campaign against bandits in
Mexico would In any way be altered;
by General Trevlno's threat to begin
hostilities if the American troops
move from their present positions in
"ny direction except toward the bor
der. Oeneral Pershing's orders authorize
nini to move in any direction he finds
necessary for his purposes. Jn the
ibscn ce of Secretary Huker, who is in
Ht. Louis, no official would predict
Whether these orders would be
changed, but the general impression
prevailed that they would not be.
There is no fear of an immediate
c'aBli, however, for officials believe
hat Oeneral Pershing would avoid
taking any step that might lead to se
fifnis consequences until he had com
municated with Washington. Late to.
n'Rht the war department had no
word from him or from any other
The Day in Congress
V MOOttiN JOUKNAL 1MCIAL LIIHD WIKII
El Paso, Tex., June 16. Gruesome
stories of vengeance taken by Villis
ta bandits in Durango upon captive
Carrancistas who had been engaged
in the bandit campaign In southern
Chihuahua and northern Durango
were brought here tonight by mining
men from Parra.1.
. t'alixto Contreras, a bandit chief
tain, recently cut the. ears off a score
of his captives and sent them to Gen.
I.ni.n Herrera. commander at Parral,
thev said. The Americans asserted
they had seen several of tho mutilat
ed C'arrunclsta soldiers, who were lib.
nrnted with instructions to return to
Parral and warn their commander
that further activities In the bandit
campaign would result In the tongues
of all captives being cut out.
Private dispatches also received
here today said that General Herrera
was obliged to adopt stringent meas
ures to prevent a proposed antl
American demonstration in Parral
early in the week. It wasi said that
Herrera went to the municipal plaza,
where a crowd had gathered, pointed
out to the throng that without the
operation of American m.nlng prop
erties in the district many of the
peons would starve, and threatened to
execute any person attempting to or
ganize an anti-foreign demonstration.
Rumors that Gen. Gabriel Gavira
had been executed on his arrival at
Mexico C'itv for high treason in con
nection with his recent conference
with General Pershing were denied at
military headquarters in Juarez to
day. "apt. Alberto Gavira, a son of
General (iavira, who was summoned
to the capital to confer with the min
iuicr nf war. arrived in Juarez today
London. June 17 (3:30 a. in.) The bPr, 1914,. Fifty witnesses including rra' Ht,,,PH 1,1 ""' control and regu
chief gain of ground announced by i.iie'iiiuiu U ,oMtifirt r.'.r V,i-r.,.iiiir.,. ! bit Ions. Wo reaffirm the historic po
the Russians during the past twenty- tlri( defense regarding Flanders' men-Hi,i(,n nf "ur l,ir,v tniM t'r'grd and
-in uvuij win uh inn nuaiiiiin rriin'i ,uj condition were called The defense ,"vl" u,e cuiuiiiuiuie,. m uuu wn
which up to now had held compara- 'admitted the killing and 'depended ' 'Provision of the federal constitution
tlfi.li. firm Tha liieaiuiiu nl'iim in ..... I...U1..U ....!.. 1.. il.n .... i. ....... I r.
J .......
he breaking
main contest has been on tho front Flnm, qualifications of their electors.
just norm oi jtucznez on tne mver .... .
The Russians claim i to thp inmnhy ?)lon ,)tterinK ,,,,, ,,,Hti. I which vests In the several stntes of
...ir, .inn..,,,, i r. j niony , g..p,,rt lhp nonteiitlon that;'"" "I,IH" "1H Power ,o presenile uie
Stripn. Here the Russians are de
clared to have overthrown the Aus
trian army and taken 6,000 prisoners.
Insanity o Defcnm-.
With (iovcrnor Ferguson, It was
ulirm.it liv fnrtnei If 10 irnunnl n , i vn
In bis Instructions to the Jury Judge 'ii,ir,,.u nf Georgia, .Tames It. Nugent
i . ii. rarmeiee saui: ine lavv rec- i,.r ju ,i Hii.niu.n n irii.,,,
I'rixiiiiiiil imus RiK'oniini'iidution."
The burden of Governor Ferguson's
argument was that suffrage, 'being
For the time being the rapid move-1 ognlzes that a man may be insane on !i ,,r i.',,,-, w'hvui. Iml
ment on tne wings ana tun cavalry bojihj niiiijecis nun not on oiners linn
dash In Volhynla toward the Kovel . if murder Is deliberately planned and
Junction seems lo have slackened iexecuted insanity is no defense."
somewnai. ine morning newspapers i j nn cac was given to t ne jury on i purely a stale's right question the
today print only brief specials from 'Christmas eve, and while children of I wording of the majority plank was a
Petrograd and some of these given Sheridan were singing Christmas car- 'presumptuous recommendation to the
c""r " ;" "';'" a u, oi ,,m, nrisimiis nee ,tates on how to conduct their ehe
egraphic transmission. A possible ex- In the courthouse yard, the Jury re- borates.
piaoauon or inese ''' Kven in lurnea a verdict i guiuy. Anti-suffrnge delegates on the floor
a dispatch from the Dai y Tele- An appeal to the Wyoming supreme I p),., the governor with questions
oeioh'ii Doifotrpu H eiil-rniitioniluri u-hn 'inn.i .... 1 1 i I., i 1 " '
" i ".. ".in lesuneo in nit- uinrniauon or : which brought out, in the answers,
, . ,u , .k mnuings lino senicnce. un June 9, fresh arguments against the admin
,i in iirk.-ij iiini mr loui.r ui.msi, ine siuic uoitrii or parnons re
events will become a little obscured fused a petition to commute Flanders'
during the next few days, for mticii I sentence to life imnrlsonuient
oepenus on tne secrecy or ine execu
lion of the maneuvers for which the
Russians have now got free play.''
A semi-official commentary pub
lished in Petrograd yesterday says:
"The absence from the official
communications of the names of
places occupied or the directions
taken by General Hruslloffs army do
not mean any retardation In his ad
vance. On the contrary, his progress
continues without Intermission. The
CARRANZA TROOP
MOVEMENT CONTINUES
Istration plank ami when Ferguson
had finished the convention wa (hi
confusion and the tone of the uproar
In tho delegate sections was Indicative
of sympathy with the opponents of
the administration plunk.
Rombnrded With QiiomIoiis.
When Senator Ktnn took the
iipeaker's place to defend the plank
he was bombarded with a running fire
of qmstions and argument from dele
from .Mexico City, and said that his ho the enemy's flank. The advance,
Gen. Domingo Arrleta, have arrived
ut Cmichn. about fid mili-a timilheiiMt
broad corridor formed by our break f hpTe, lo reinforce General Maldon
through in the direction of Lutsk ado in tho bandit Mmnaiirn m ih,.r
continues to widen and Is assuming district, according to reports here to
un enveloping churacter In relation tiav
xaMNIN JOUXNAL (MCIAL L.A.IO WIKII
Chihuahua City, June 16. Four
thousand men of the Durango dlvl-igteH on the floor wnlch eventually
sion or tne currancisiu army, under ..xhausted the time allotted to him
without permitting him to speak ten
successive minutes.
fmhoi. had not vet reactied the red
rii riiuirlct and that he was still hixh
i.. ,h.i fii-nr nf governmental offi
cials.
Met at noon.
Adjourned at 1J:07 p. hi.
Wday. . ,
to noon
,, House.
Met at noon.
''"wed numerous private bills.
Military affairs committee filed fa-
rable report on nrmv appropriation
"'I earrylnB $157.1 23,099.
Adjourned at 4:80 p. m. until noon
Saturday.
ENGLAND MAY BUY
ENTIRE WOOL CUP
lav KOHIH JOUMAL MICUI LIAM8 WIXl
Iindon, June 16. Following the
taking of a census of wool stocks, the
government today announced that it
had under consideration arrangements
for the pt.rrhnse of the whole F.nglish
and Irish clip of 1S16. In conse.
nuence the usual provincial wool sales
will not be held.
however, cannot go on indefinifly at
the present qeeo, for the eleni".H of
unexpectedness to which was due
much of its eurlv success cannot be
maintained for the period of a fort
night. Stops must be made for re
moving the wounded and prisoners,
for bringing up fresh supplies, and
for work necessary in ibe freshly
elongated lines of communication.
"lnrenvor tha inii-n..ilial. .iilm fit
ihn 1nuuinn nplrrCKiiliii iu no, t.. rA- I
capture certain towns or areis, but
has in view the destruction of the vital
organs of the enemy's military power,
which are his armies. Our success
in this respect could not h ive a more
eloquent expression th'iu the grow
ing list of prisoners."
Anli-siiffii'se delegates loiullv chal
lenged his references to Ferguson's
statements with cries of "that's not
what he said" and "that's not lair."
lien. Jacinto rrevino, commanding I Many delegates openly took the posl
me army of the north, announced to-jtlmt that the question was becoming
oay ne nas received acknowledgment I confused by the manner of its prose n
from General Pershing, American ex-jtutinn. Finally, Senator Stone yielded
petitionary commander- of his recent to Senator l'lttman of Nevada, one of
order nullifying any agreement made the suffrage champions.
with Gen. Gain lei Gavira.
Anti-American feeling here, which
bad died down materially, wus pro
voked again by exaggerated reports
of a recent fracas between American
soldiers and natives in a saloon In
Cases G ramies. In which a Mexican
policeman was wounded. However,
the military authorities' have the city
well under control.
Two American deserters captured
here are being held hero awaiting or
ders from the American authorities
as to their disposition.
The crowd wanted to howl Plttnuin
down and shouted "vote, vote."
Sonici Strong language.
"Yes, 1 know you want to vote."
l'lttman cried at his opponents.
"You'd rather do anything else than
hear the truth.
"Are you men who are willing to
hear women denounced afraid to hear
a man say something in their behalf?
I want to appeal to you to give your
sisters and daughters and .panthers the
rignr to vole
HSRMIH JOUHAL MetAL L1ASIS WIKII
Coliseum, St. Louts, June 16.
After an unsuccessful fight to throw
out the suffrage plank In the demo
cratic platform as approved bv Presl-
floor and the clatter caused by the j dent Wilson, thp democratic national
rain on the roof almost drowned out , convention at 3:07 o'clock this after
the speakers. The storm cleared Just noon adopted the whole platform, In
ns Senator Walsh finished speaking, I eluding the planks on suffrage and
Americanism by acclamation.
The fight on the suffrage planlt
was the firBt row lo ripple the har
mony of the convention. The fight
on it wns led by Governor Ferguson
of Texus and It seepied to have tome
chance until Senator Walsh of Mon.
tana told tho convention that Presi
dent Wilson considered the suffrage
plank nn written necessary to tho suc
cess of tho party.
Carried With Roar,
A roll call of states was forced and
only 181V4 votes-could be mustered
for tho substitute. 888 U were east
against It. Then the plank Itself and
the whole platform waa adopted by
n roaring chorus of approval. After
some formality the convention then
adjourned at 3:1 1 o'clock. It wa alt
over. ...
The democratic platform open
with an endorsement of the Wilson
administration, saying "It is the best
exposition of sound democratic pol-lt''-"
' . - .
It challenged comparison of "our
record, our keeping of pledges and
our constructive- legislation" with any
party at any time, and review legis
lation enactod, . . .. . . ......
riulcruotxl IM, Indorsed.
It reaffirms hellni in a tariff for
revenue only and Indorses the Under-
wood luw take ognlzanoe of the ef
fect of war on the tariff and Indoraea
it tariff commlBslQu,"
The shipping blll.ls Indorsed a a
means of restoring ''tho American
flag to the. seas."
Hyphen Condemned.
The, "Americanism" plank sum
mons all to "make clear to the world
the unity and consequent power of
America," and declared: "This la an
Issue of patriotism. To taint it with
nartlsanshli, ntniM ha tn rinfila it ' it
! condemns every group or organization
mat has as its objact the advancement
of the Interest of a foreign power.
Thu "preparedness" plank favord
the maintenance of an army fully ade
quate, for the requirements of order,
safety und protection- of the natton'H
rights: for the fullest development of
the cor.at defenso, the maintenance of
an adequate reserve of trained citi
zens and n iixea development or a
navy "worthy to support the great
naval traditions of the United Htote."
Declares Itw Neutrality.
Tho platform declare for neutral-
SFVUtAL SI l'I'R AGK
LKADI ItS ON WARPATH
St. Louis, Mo., Junt 16.- Leaders
of both tho woman's party and the
National American Woman Suffrage
association tonight united In denounc
ing un inadequate the suffrage plank
of the deinot.'ftuio platform, and de
clared they would Immediately re
sume their fight In congress for na
tional recognition.
"We shall return to Washington as
quickly us possible," Miss Ann Mar
tin, chairman of the wonmn's party,
said. "We nn, going to give the den,,
ocralle congress one inure chance to
muke good before adjournment. Jf
it does not sex fit to pass a constitu
tional amendment, war will follow.
"Some of the democratic leaders
ttUinllniit,! nn I'iiks Two.) .
TROOPERS GARRY
DA1T SEARGR
ACROSS BORDER
rx it. o ) Tho piatrorm dec area for neutral
F0r TWO HOUI'S MajOr Gray Sllty, holding that the administration
Forces Vainly Scour Strip
of Land on Mexican Side
of River.
! MOBNINS JOUHMAL lCIL LIAIIO WIHII
San Antonio, June 16. For two
hours today Major Alonzo Gray scour
ed o, strip of the country on tho Mex
ican side of tho Itio Grande for traces
of Iht, bundits who yesterday raided
his camp at Sun Ignaclo.
He crossed at ilamlerno. six miles
below Sun Ignaclo, with a part of the
two troops of the Fourteenth cavalry
that fought off Luis de In Rosa's men
Ttuirsdiiy. ( Most of the bandits are
known to have crossed Into Mexico i
and Major Gray received Information!
that some nf them were conce nlriit-1
Ing on the other side for a second at
tack, cither nn his force or the de
tachment nt Kii pat ii, farther down the
river. No trace of the Mexicans was
discovered, however.
Ihree Mexicans nlleged to have
participated In the raid were captured
on the American side of the river dur
ing the day and Hit; ebody of one of
those killed In the fight was recov
ered, bringing the total Mexican loss
in dead to nine.
has sought In the conduct of foreign
affairs to support the principle of
"maintenance ot national and Individ
ual rights," security of the highway
of the sens for "the common and un
hindered use of nations,"
It favors the maintenance of tho
closest relations of amity and help
fulness between the United Htates and
other republics of the woslorn hemi
sphere in support of peace and pros
perity. Monroo RtsMrlnc JtettHserlod.
Dealing with Mexico, It reasserts
the Monroo doctrine as a principle of
democratic faith and declares the
want "of stable government" and tho
loss of American lives and property
from revolution has "rendered neces
sary that we temporarily occupy by
our armed forced, portions of the ter
ritory of a friendly state. It says that
until the restoration of law and order
In that country shall make the repe
tition of such happenings Improbable
"tho necessity for their (the troops)
remaining must continue, and adds:
"Intervention, Implying as It does a
military subjugation, Is revolting to
the people of the I'ulted States, not
withstanding the provocation, Is great,
and should be resorted to only as a
last resort."
Conservation Favored.
Conservation laws to permit the de-
More detailed report made bv Malor velopment of national resources while
Gray today showed that the three Preventing waste ana monopoly and
men of Troop 11, who were killed, the cont uuance of the reclamation of
were shot as they were leaving their , """ "'- i"x.
tenia to go Into the, trenches. The 1 '"' " "' "'" '"r piana u
men of Troop I that came to the res-' agriculture more prontaoit.
ue of tlie Piitrcnched men advanced ."" "" "iwacuve uuu
in a skirmish line, firing from the '., "''""
brush as they advanced. ' 11 f"vors federal aid in the con-
Three comonnleii nt i nrill..rv siiucuon in Koo roans.
- .....--,.,
now tin the way here will be sent lo
.a redo, una company of engineers
irrlved today and will be held here
for the present.
RESOLUTION CAUSES
POLITICAL SENSATION the XuZTLZ
Federal Labor Rt'fornw.
In government employment It de
clares for a living wage, eight-hour
day, adoption of safety and sanitary
measures, compensation for industrial
j accidents, uniform child labor law and
fan adequate retirement law
The siitiiian'H act is endorspd and
ires for the enact-
1 inient of a federal child labor law,
kinin journal cteiAL lahd wimi creation of a federal hure.iii of safety,
St. Louis, June 16. A resolution : extension of the bureau of mines Olid
presented at u meeting of the demo-, a leuerui system or employment agen-
ratlc national committee tonight p ies.
provided that the committee nameits l or Tuberculosis Treatment,
own chairman mid secretary from itsl Public health measures and the c fl
own membership and that the demo-itnbllshment of federal sanatoria for
rath presidential nominee be em- needs of tuberculosis patients are fa-
powered to select a canipulgn com- vored.
mittee und name its officers, created! It declares for ft government budg
sensation among the committeemen :et and the ultimate independence of
Whut's thut got to do with this?" until after midnight,
gathered to effect their organization
fhe resolution was defeated by a vote
f 46 to 3 after a debute that lasted
the Philippines,
, siirrratre state; Qucstfon.
On suffrage it suyn: "We recom
mend extension of franchise to th
. M
