S ''-wfrTyMf . . -BaiHwiiiteiiiiiiififtTr jlFIFMipM-B..lMBBBBBBBBBlB
';! ------------
t" i'
k '
1 1
M Today's Metal Prices f 1L, tl iv -V A Sk."-' W-wA-W-frX" I 4 p- M- CITY EDtnoN I 8
.. UvnrvflvUlvlililarU jjn I
Bf New York, June 17. Silver 63 7-8c; l WL IL ' ' V J WEATHER Utah: Partly Cloudy lH
jHfv lead, $6.90; spelter, $13.25; copper, . v Tonight and Sunday; Not Much H
jHf $27.00 28.00 and $29.00 to $29.50. j!T - Change In Temperature. ilH
I ' FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. jH
m I Forty-slxth Year-No. 145. Price Five Cent.. OGDEN CITY, UTAH, SATURDAY EVENING, JUNE 17, 5916. Entered as Second Class Matter at the Postofflce, Ogden. UUh. '
I American Troops Are In a Battle I
Across Border Near Brownsville I
I UNITED STATES WILL KEEP TROOPS
I IN MEXICO. DESPITE NEW THREAT
H ; Carranza's Notice to Pershing That Active Warfare Against
I American Troops Will Be Started Funston Has 50,000
H ; Troops So Disposed That Swift Punitive Action
H Can Be Taken Trevino's Threat to Attack
I ; Considered Practical Declaration of War
I ; Funston Will Not Relax Vigilance
I" Entire National Guard Being
Prepared for Active Service.
San Antonio, Texas, June 1 7. American troops crossed
the border this afternoon below Brownsville and immediately i
; were engaged in fighting, according to a report from General
Parker to General Funston. The report did not state whether
' the force opposed to the Americans were bandits or Mexican
troops. The American troops engaged arc those of the sec
ond squadron of the Third cavalry under Major Anderson.
! , The troops under Captain Newman who was first dispatched to
ff wards San Benito in pursuit of the bandits that attacked last
f night a detachment of the Twenty-sixth infantry, was the first '
to cross, that troop being followed within a short time by Major
' Anderson with the remainder of the squadron.
j.
; San Antonio, Texas, June 1 7. General Pershing has told
i General Jacinto Trevino, in reply lo the message warning him
' that any move of the American troops except toward the border
I would be regarded as hostile act, that he could not recognize
his authority- to govern the movements of the American ex-
' pedition. The text of Trevino's message and the reply from
' General Pershing were received today br General Funston
and forwarded to Washington.
Officers and soldiers of the Ameri-
: can garrison liere were kept closely
i lo Jlieir nuarters. Street car service
; to Juarez was at a" standstill and ef-
i i oris were made by United States eus-
i oins officials to persuade Americans
" , not to cross the river,
jft Mexican Civilians Arming.
. Tension was noticeable on the Mex-
: lean side where numbers of civilians
I were arming themselves. Reports
j from authentic sources indicated that
.! recruiting for the army was being
: pushed In all tbf larger cities in north-
'. ern Mexico.
,' I There were no indication of untow-
': ard developments in this vicinity dur-
' Ing the night.
f Washington, June 17. Warning
i from Mexican commanders that any
i movement of American troops except
k in retirement t,oward the border would
precipitate hostilities, will not change"
the purpose" of the United States gov-
l , ernment to keep its expedition In
I ' northern Mexico or prevent General
J Pershing from taking any steps neccs-
i sary to insure the safety of his own
!' : columns, and deal with bandits threat-
ening the border. No advance further
south is contemplated and it is not
' , believed here the Carranza forces are
1 , planning an immediate attack upon
; the American forces.
The war department today was with-
: out advices from General Pershing re
: garding the warning said to have been
Bent him by General Trevino but Gen-
oral Funston reported the substance
' ' of a telephone conversation he had
j with General Bell at El Paso who
) stated It as a fact that such a warning
; had been given.
Diplomatic officials were Inclined
to believe that if General Trevino did
: serve a warning, it was for home con-
sumption. They thought It might be
a political move by General Carranza
) designed to offset the activities of
the anti-American element In Mexico.
General Pershing Ready.
General Pershing is ready to deal
with any force that may be sent
against him. It is probable, however,
that he will hold to hie present lines,
and make no move to precipitate hoa-
1 tilltles.
I General Funston reported also that
'L Major Gray of the Fourteenth cavalry.
J ATTENTION
I Order of Railroad Conduc
tor and L.,A. of O. R. C,
Brotherhood of Ry. Train
men and L. A. of B. of R. T.
Joint memorial services
will be held at the I. O. O. F.
Hall, 2320 Wash. Ave.,
Sunday at 10:15 a. m.
I sharp.
u All members are earnest-
li ly requested to attend. Pub
Jl lie invited.
commanding the two troops attacked
by Mexicans at San Ignacio, Texas,
recently had returned from an effort
to pick up the strall of the bandits. The
cavalry crossed to the Mexican side,
but encountered none of the outlaws.
Major Gray reported he had receiv
ed assurances of co-operation from
Carranza military commanders across
the line. The Mexican officers said
they had captured twenty men believ
ed lo have been engaged in the at
tack on the American camp
All Available Regulars at Border.
Practically all available regulars of
the United States army, including
many coast artillerymen, already are
on the border or in Mexico and the
national guards of Texas. Arizona, and
New Mexico are in service -for patrol
duty. The guardsmen of other states
were notified some weeks ago to bo
prepared to respond if it should be
come necessary to call them out.
Preparing National Guard.
It was learned today that consider
able correspondence has been ex
changed betwen the department and
the governors and adjutants-general
of various states relative to the new
status given the guardsmen under the
Hay-Chamberlain army organization
bill which becomes effective July 1.
These messages are presumed to have
caused recurrent reports that the en
tire force of the national guard Is be
ing prepared for active service.
Mexican embassy officials said they
had not been informed of any mes
sage sent by Thevino and that examin
ation of what purported to be the text
of the warning was sufficient proof
that It either was a badly garbled
translation, or a fabrication.
"Washington. June 17. Although
the United States reply to General
Carranza's last note Is virtually com
pleted, Its dispatch Is being delayed
while administration officials seek de
tailed InTormatlon on these develop
ments :
Carranza's threat, reported from
Chihuahua yesterday as having been
transmitted to General Pershing
thronBh General Trevino to start ac
tive -warfare If American troops are
moved In any direction except north
ward toward the border;
Another bandit raid on Texas terri
tory north of Brownsville last night;
The attack on Amorclan troopers
by Mexican bandits at San Ignacio,
Texas, "Wednesday;
Reports of warning by the Carranza
commander opposite San Ignacio that
American troops would be attacked
If they crossed the Rio Grande re
gardless of their purpose.
Additions to the note dealing with
some of these late developments may
bo made. It is said. Officials' pres
ent Inlentlon Is to dispatch the reply
within a few days.
The Washington government will
re-affirm its purpose not to intervene
In Mexican affairs until forced by con
tinued and aggravated attacks on
American territory, it Is reported. Suf
ficient emphasis will be placed on
the growing sentiment of this govern
ment, however, to make It plain that
If warfare finally appear a duty, it
will not" be shirked.
Texas Rangers Rush to Border.
Laredo, Texan, June 17. Texas
rangers under command of Captain J.
J. Sanders and several armed citizens
were hurried early today to Islitas 25
miles up the Rio Grande from Lare
do on a report that Mexican bandits
were seen approaching the settlement.
Few details of the reported incur
sion were available early today. Ran
ers in that vicinity, however, advised
the few Americans to congregate at
the J. B. Morrow ranch house and
aid was telephoned -for from there.
General Mann, commanding the Lar
edo district of the border patrol, has
a body of troops in that vicinity.
General Mann had neard nothing
further regarding the raid up to 4:30
o'clock this morning and was inclined
to believe that if a raid had been
contemplated it had not been carried
out.
Hanna Reports Quiet.
Asked regarding conditions in
Mexico and the probable length of
his stay, Consul Hanna replied.
"Everything is quiet down the lino.
I may remain two or three days."
It has been known for some time
I that Consul Hanna was Instructed by
! the state department that he could
leave his post any time at his own
discretion.
Consul Uanna immediately on his
arrival asked for an American news
paper. He appeared surprised when
ho glanced at the headlines, but would
not comment on overnight develop
ments. Vigorous Action Taken.
j Brownsville. Texas. June 17 Re
vival of bandit activity in the lower
Rio Grande valley last night resulted
in vigorous action by authorities
which was interpreted here as pre
i saging a determined attempt to check
i the periodical recurrence of outlawry
by dealing with the bandits on Ameri
can soil.
After the reports were recehed that
bandits appeared near San Benito sev-.
eral detachments of American troops
were gotten under way to deal with
them.
Motor Cars Commandered.
Motor Cars were commandered In
accordance with pre-arranged plans
and two companies of the Twenty
sixth infantry were dispatched from
Harlingen to Olmito, ten miles north
of Brownsville, with orders to cut
off the bandits' retreat across the RIo
Grande into Mexico. Meanwhile, aiuJ
other force of two companies of in
fantry sent from San Benito earlier
in the night on receipt of reporis that
the Joe Scott ranch had been attack
ed. found the bandits ten miles east
of San Benito A running fight took
place in which, according to meager
reports available here early today,
three Mexicans were killed while the
American force suffered no casual
ties. In addition to these forces a troop
of cavalry was dispatched when re
norts came that another bandit force
had appeared near the Fresno tract.
14 miles north of Brownsville, and
robbed a Mexican farmer of his horse
The man escaped unharmed and re
ported the occurrence to Fort Brown
from where the cavalry was sent.
"Washington. June 17. General Fun
ston advised the war department to
day that he was informed by General
Bell at El Paso that General Pershing
had been warned by General Trevino,
the Carranza commander at Chihua
hua, that any movement of the Ameri
can expedition to the south, west or
east, would be a signal for an attack
by the Mexican forces.
Carranza Troops Coming North.
Laredo. Texas, June 17. A well in
formed Mexican arriving here from
the Interior of Mexico confirms re
ports that more than five thousand
Carranza troops have passed Villai
dama, 110 miles south of Laredo, j V
ing northward. He said the soldie
were spread out in moderate sized de
tachments. Traffic across the International
bridge between Laredo and Nuevo
Laredo has noticeably diminished.
Americans no longer pass the night In
Nuevo Laredo and only the more dar
ing pass to that city during the day
Cavalry Strikes "Hot Trail."
Brownsville, Tex., June 17. It was
reported to army headquarters here
today that a troop of the third cav
alry under Lieutenant A. D. Newmans
had struck a "hot trail" of Mexican
bandits north of Brownsville. These
bandits were supposed to have been
the same which attacked United
States soldiers near San Benito last
night
El Paso, Tex., June 17. Carranza,
having thrown down the gauntlet to
the United States In his advices to
General Pershing that any troop move
ment east, west or south would be re
garded as hostile act. every prepara
tion was bolng made along the border
today for eventualities.
San Antoplo, Texas, June 17. The
arrival at Laredo today of Phillip Han
na, consul-general at Monterey, devel
oped the fact that the state depart
ment ordered both him and J. R. SI1
llman, consul at Saltillo. to the Amer
ican side of the river. The withdraw
al of these two consular officers will
leave the American government with
no consular representatives at Interior
points in 'Mexico except an agent at
Mexico City.
GEN. TlSTON
READY 10 ACT
Border Commander and Staff
Not Disturbed by de Facto
Government's Hostile
Attitude.
WILL NOT HESITATE
Search for Bandits Will Con
tinue and Any "Hot Trail"
Will Be Followed.
San Antonio, Texas, Juno 17 Gen
eral Funston and his staff gave care
ful attention today to the activities
of outlaw bands along the Mexican
border, but 'far greater interest was
displayed In the attitude being as
sume'll by the troops of the de facto
government.
Generai Parker at Brownsville, Tex
as, made a brief report of the latest
manifestation of outlawry, rfear San
Benito and reported a continuation of
the search for bandits that raided the
cavalry camp at San Ignacio but it
was evident at department headquart
ers that greater significance was at
tached to the doings of Carranza
troops than those of the bandit lead
ers. General Rlcaut's warning that the
crossing of the international boundary
by any American troops forany cause
j
Avhatever, would be regarded as an
overt act and would be the cause for
an attack by the de facto government
troops did not disturb General Fun
ston or his staff. The search for ban
dits will continue and whenever a
"hot trail" is found leading into Mex
ico the Americans will not hesitate to
follow it The officers in charge of
troops on the border have authority
to cross the border without waiting
for special instructions.
Funston's Troops Welf Distributed.
General Funston's army of almost
50,000 has been so disposed along the
Mexican border that swift punitive
action could be taken. General Tre
vino's threat to attack General Per
shing if the American troops move
east, west or south was regarded by
army officers here as little less than
a declaration of hostilities by the
Mexicans, since it may be necessary
at any time for the leader of the big
punitive expedition to send small de
tachments In pursuit of outlaw bands.
Precautions Along Border.
Precautions taken by General Bell
at El Paso last night in holding all
the American troops ready for action
were similar to those taken at every
border point, opposite which there was
any considerable number of Carranza
troops. General Greene at Eagle Pass
and General Mann at Laredo also
prepared to move quickly In case of
eventualities, but at those points less
activity on the Mexican side of the
river was displayed.
The garrison at Eagle Pass was
strengthened last night by the arrival
of the Thirteenth infantry. Three
companies of the coast artillery, now
on their way south, will go directly to
Laredo. If the request of General
Funston for more militia his request
has never been withdrawn Is grant
ed, the state troops will be divided
along the border stations
COWBOYS EXONERATED BY JUDGE
OF THE MUNICIPAL COURT
1 "
Evidence Introduced to Prove Rough Treatment of Women
Had Caused Cowboys and Others to Interfere When Of
ficer Covey Was on the Viaduct Men Did Not
Know Covey Was an Officer.
The charges against the five cow
boys employed by the Ogden Horse
Sales Company, who were alleged to
have assaulted and beaten Motorcy.
cle Patrolman George Covey, on the
Twenty-fourth street viaduct, the aft
ernoon of June 3d, were dismussed
by Municipal Judge George S Barker,
and those against Robert Shepherd
and Dick Lee. late yesterday after
noon, on motion of counsel for the
defense. The charges against D. L.
White were dismissed this morning,
on motion of the prosecuting attorney,
and those against Robert Bebee and
Bud Goins, thiB morning, by decision
of the judge.
Case Is Argued.
The case was argued at a special
session of court this morning by
County Attorney Joseph E. Evans for
the state, and Attorney George Hal
vcrson, for the defense. The county
attorney contended that Patrolman
Covey was acting in his official capac
ity at the the time the trouble and
that no testimony had been brought
to show that he struck cither of the
girls.
The state had proved, he argued
further, that only cowboys had par
ticipated In the attack upon Covey and
that he had made known to them
that he was an officer and that Goins
and Bebee had been positively identic
fied by two witnesses as having been
In the crowd. Ho then asked that
the charge against White be diBmised
and Bebee and Goins held for trial In
the district court
Attorney Halverson, in his argu
ment, contended that the weight of
evidence proved conclusively that
Covey's identity as a police officer
was not known at any time, prior to
or during the fracas in which the
officer was injured. In the cases of
Shepherd and Lee, Covey's ability to
identity his assailants had been absc
lutely proven at fault and, therefore,
was not dependable in the cases of
the other three defendants. He fur
there declared that the officer had
failed to exercise discretion In the
handling of the two women and had
brought upon himself the ire of "Bill"
Winters, who alone engaged him in
fair fight, and later others who,
spurned on by angry Indignation, took
a hand In the chastisement. He de
clared that the state had failed to
prove its allegation and asked for the
discharge of his clients.
In summing up the case, Judge
Barker stated that he was In doubt
as to the wilfulness of the assault
upon Covey and as to whether they
knew he was an officer. These facts,
he said, had not been proved by the
state. He then dismissed the de
fendants. The case of the city against the five
cowboys, in which they are charged
with disturbing the peace, was con
tinued until Thursday, June 22.
Further testimony was given for
the state yesterday afternoon by
Lloyd Treseder, Elliott Tracy and W.
H. Stevens. These witnesses corrob
orated the testimony of Patrolman Co
vey, as previously reviewed. Tracey de
clared he saw the officer show his star
at least on one occasion and Treseder,
that he heard Covey say to the crowd,
"I am an officer of the law." Trese
der also said he saw the defendant
Bebee throw a piece of scantling at
Covey.
Howard R. Butler, auditor of the
horse sales company, was the first
witness for the defense. He was in
his office, he said, directly under the
viaduct and first heard the noise of
scuffing He next heard someone
shout. "Take that gun," and leaving
his office went lo the grandstand in
the stockyards, a short distance away,
and stood up on it. From this posi
tion, he saw Covey running away, ap
parently from two men The officer
ran about 100 feet and was then head
ed off by people on the viaduct, both
cowboys and local people. Everyone
seemed to he hitting the officer and
the fellow finally went down under
the onslaught.
The witness next saw "White come
upon the viaduct and Immediately be
gin to pull the men off Covey. White
did not strike the officer at any time,
according to Mr. Butler The witness
said he saw Goins with a gun in his
hand and saw Winters in the crowd,
but he did not see Bebee at all. He
also said that Winters was no longer
In the employ of the horse sales com
pany. Other Witnesses.
Alma Bailey of North Ogden. said
he saw Covey apparently in a quarrel
with Inez Tracy and Mrs. Chrlstopho
lus. One of the girls hit the officer
with a whip, the witness continued,
and he walked away from them. They
followed him and one of them again
hit him with the whip. The next
thing he noticed, was the crowd on
the ground start to run up the stair
way leading to the top of the viaduct.
The witness next saw Covey ruu to
ward the stairway and his further rec
ollection pf the affair was that White
went up the stair and pulled the men
off the officer, saying "Boys, cut this
out! This Is no sideshow. Go back and
go to work." The witness saw Goins
in the crowd, but not taking part In
the melep. He also said there were
about 100 people on the viaduct.
Saw Women Abused.
L. A. Pullens, an employe of the
horse saleB company, said he heard
a woman scream and, looking up from
his work, saw Covey on the viaduct
holding the heads of the women under
his arms and trying to Jam them to-
(Contlnued on Page 7.)
NO HALT IN THE GREAT RUSSIAN I
OFFENSIVE AGAINST AUSTRIA! I
Czar's Troops Remain on Aggressive in Spite of Austrian Re- l
ports of a Check Here and There Big Guns of Crown 'H
Prince Violently Shelling French Trenches Two 'H
Large German Steamships Torpedoed in Bal- 'H
tic Sea British Destroyer Eden Sinks in H
English Channel Italians Carry H
Austrian Positions. iH
'I
.London, June 17, 1:50 p. m. The British destroyer 'H
Eden has been sunk. Thirty-one members of the crew were
saved. Three officers are missing. The Eden was sunk in l
the English channel last night after a collision. This an- j
nouncement was made this afternoon by the official press
bureau. Ifl
.ll
Copenhagen, June 17, via London, 3:20 p. m. Two 1
large German steamships were torpedoed in the Baltic last jH
evening, according to Swedish fishermen who say they saw j
the vessels sink after a violent cannonading. 'H
There are no signs of a halt in the
powerful Russian offensive in Vol
hynla. The latest official Austrian
statement tells of a Russian check
here and there, but the Russians re
main on the aggressive.
French positions in the Dead Man
Hill sector, northwest of Verdun are
again the object of German attacks,
the big guns of the crown prince vio
lently shelling the French trenchea
The British destroyer Eden sank as
the result of a collision in the English
channel. Three officers are missing.
Paris, June 17, 12 noon. In the
course of last night German troops at
tacked the French positions at Avo
court with grenades, says the official
statement issued today by the French
war department. In the region of Lc
Mort Homme there was an intense
bombardment.
In the Vosges after a violent bom
bardment of Hill No. 425 to the east
of Thiann. French infantry, the state
ment adds, penetrated the first and
second lines and brought back a num
ber of German prisoners.
The text of the communication
says:
"In Belgium there was last night a
fairly intense artillery duel In the
sector of Lombaerszyde.
' "On the left bank of the Meuse Ger
man attacks with hand grenades on
the redoubt at Avocourt and on our
advanced posts west of Hill No. 304
we easily repulsed There has been
an intense bombardment of our posi
tions at Dead Man's Hill but without
any infantry action.
"On the right bank of the river there
has been violent artillery fighting in
the sector north of Fleury.
Violent Bombarding In Vosges.
"In the Vosges following a violent
bombardment on the part of our artil
lery directed against the German
works at Hill No. 425, east of Thiann.
a detachment or our infantry penetrat
ed to the first and to the second Ger
man lines, which were cleaned up.
The French detachment returned with
out having suffered losses and brought
with it some prisoners.
"During the night of June li-17
three aeroplanes of tho enemy bom
barded the region of Dunkirk. There
were no victims and the material
lamages werc slight. At about. S
o'clock this same night Bar le Due
was bombarded by enemy aeroplanes.
Four persons were killed among the
population and about fifteen wore
wounded. Later in the evening some
bombs were thrown down orf Pont-a-Mousson
by German aviators but they
did no damage.
"During tho night of June 16-1 1 a
French bombarding air squadron
threw down 29 shells of 12 kilos each
and four 155 kilos each upon the rail
road station at Longuyon, .uont meuy
and Audun lo Roman."
Austrlans Defeat Russians.
Berlin, June 17, wireless to Sayvllle
Austro-Hungarian troops south of
the Dnelst'er river In Gallcla defeated
a Russian cavalry -force on Thursday,
according to an official statement giv
en out by the Austro-Hungarian army
headquarters under date of Juno 1U.
The text of the Austrian statement
follows: .
"South of the Dnolster our (roops
repulsed tho enemy's cavalry. Farth
er to the east there were only smaller
engagements in thisd istricL
"West of YiBvovczky Russian at
tacks against our position are in pro
gress. Two officers and 400 Russians
remained In the hands of our troops.
Near Tarnopol there were no especi
al events.
"On the whole Volhynlan front new
combats have started. Ou the Stok
hod and the Styr several 'enemy at
tempts to cross the river failed. Tho
enemy as usual suffered heavy losses.
"Italian front. Enemy attacks on
the southern part of the Doberdo plat
eau were repulsed. Repeated Italian 'IH
attacks against several of our post- jjf
tions on the Dolomites likewise fail-
"On the Asiago plateau there were JH
spirited artillery duels. M
"In the Ortler district our troops IH
conquered the top of Takat and the H
summit of the hindmost Madatsh." M
The statement also announces that H
new battles have been started on the H
whole front In Volhynia. IH
Berlin War Report. M
Berlin, June 1G via London, 4:10
p. m. Genera' von Linsingen's troops IJ
have engaged the Russians in battle 'M
in the Stokhod and Styr sectors, says 1
the official statement Issued by Ger-
man army headquarters today. ill
The statement adds that parts of ilH
the army of General Count von Both- '1
mer are engaged In battle with the Jl
Russians to the north of Przewloka. '
The text of the statement says: IH
Western theater: A French patrol
attack near Beulgne, north of the M
Alsne, was easily repulsed. H
"hi the Meuse district the activity M
of the artillery continued with con- 1
sidcrable strength. M
"In the Vosges we Inflicted consid- .H
erable losses upon the enemy by an H
explosion northeast of Celles, and we H
repulsed a minor detachment west of H
Scnnheim, which had succeeded in H
penetrating temporarily our trenches. H
"Our squadrons dropped bombs free- H
ly at points of military establishment H
in Bergunne (French Flanders) In M
Bar le Due and in the sector of Dom- T
I basle, Einville, Lunneville and Blalu- M
"Eastern theater: General Llnsln- 'H
gen's army: Fighting has developed H
in the Stokhod and Styr sectors. H
'Parts of tho army of Gen. Count H
von Bothmer engaged in battle north
of Przewloka." 'H
Italians Carry Austrian Positions. H
Rome, June 17, via London, 5 p. m. H
Italian troops have carried the Aus- H
Irian positions of Malga, Fossita and H
Monte Magari between the Frenzela H
valley and Marclsina, according to an H
official statement given out at the '
war department today. The Italians H
took 203 prisoners and captured six H
guns and four machine guns. H
Champion German Aviator Killed. H
London, June 17, 5:20 p. m. Cap- H
tain Boelke, the champion German H
aviator, is believed to have been killed H
in an aerial combat with the French H
aviator, Roger Ribiere. A Fokker of H
the type known to have been pioleted H
by Boelke, was shot down by Rlblero jH
two days ago near Verdun. H
H
Up to May 21. Captain Boelke had H
accounted for eighteen French aero H
rn i
ROAD CALLING I
FOR VOLUNTEERS I
Pennsylvania Railroad Com- M
pany Preparing for Events fl
alities in Case Strike M
Is Called. H
Philadelphia. Juno 17. Volunteers
to operate trains in the event of a
trainmen's strike were called for In a H
statement addressed to the employes
of the Pennsylvania Railroad company H
by the general manager of that cor-
.poration. H
-
T FREE CONCERT TOMORROW AFTERNOON rpiTT wi" ,, MUSIC BY THATCHER'S I
11 AND EVENING, SUNDAY, JUNE 18TH, AT J. 06 O.CF1 1 117306 ORCHESTRA. H
I ' --!
' --i
mr ---.
q
