C'
THE DONALDSONVILLE CHIEF.
A Wide-Awake Home Newspaper-Published Every Saturday-Subscription Price, $2 a Year.
VOLUME XLV. DONALDSONVILLE, LA., SATURDAY, JUNE 17, 1916. NUMBER 4,.
N IWS OF THE, PHOTO PLAYS
- . ;.Cor ing Attractions at the Local Movie Houses I
001C
"The Cuoiie-ack.
In this distinctive ou'erlingl oil the
metro progriL'", tI hie shown at the
Grand tonlorri,\v, two notable sitars,
Harold Lockwt, tot ;.ind May Allison,
will make their lt i i: ow from the
screen to lotalI audiences. They
need no iintroduotiotn to photoplay
lovers, howewer, t'r their work in
ro.antic and i li illitng screen pro
duftions is al. ilty wtell and popular
ly knliwn vwhc-i,r- ' I- iotn pictures
The stoly . 1 .T'hl. .'nme-Back"
deals with th. lel;,rit uo ofv Burt
Ridgway, a rith lit.li': nii. who, lured
by the tempiatinn hi, ,tnh hi:: f Mither's
Wealth afford:,, h:L,. Lco llt di. ° I :i
pated society idtlhr .\ tel:si;itiig wo
an," and tl , ti datl li l,-,e iinto which
.he leads hinm, ..tiiddtniy awakeiil. him
to a realizatioli of lIi. wt:tlkness, and
he seeks to hide luimn:"lf .and his iden
ilty in l lu hini ¢t , ii ip it tht- wood- ;
Sce.ts (rrm, "'ITHr COMNC IAl'K.'
of northern Maine, which his father
owns and which he has heard is not
being handled as it should e by thile
company's manager, Mac lteberton,
How the soft-muscled, unprepared
newcomer loses his heart to Patta
lieberton, the lovely niece :and ward
of the siniister-browed camp boss; howhe
his pride is humbled in a personal el
counter vwith the canlmp hully, who sees
how55he,, aM o h tra~ntu . iin- i
e i e big outdoors Tor the day
when he can turn the tables upon his
victorious opponent, thereby making
of the bully his lstantitch frienid and at
the same time a manl of himself; of
the double colnspiracy which he uni
covers, fostered by l'atta's evil utcle,
against Iis iatheri's company and the
girl herse(lf, and the pleasing r-()
tntnee which is ii iniertwined through
out, iforslll a story of. compenlling atnd
nhsorbi no int.rest,
Marguerite Clark in "Mice and Men,"
Margutritc Itlatrk, the ftascinating
little sta l t" lheil F'amous Players
Film ('omlpany, who since her deser
lion of the slage has endowed the
screen with a ntunllher of inimitable
characterizations, mliust notrable of
which are her slie'r'ssf'ifll aippeartanlce
in "Still WVatt't" anid in the thlal title
roles of "'I'e Princet aiid the Pauper,"
adds another sel'tetn alhitevei' i.lt that
surpasses all her pLcviou it tiuliphs in
her delighlltfil 'tlus pit't tatiton if the
role of Peggy ill the phoilto-ltproduetioin
of tile fantuus romtanti, cot.iedy,
"Mice and Merti," \v ih o\\ill I, the
Monday attratioitt at thelt (taitd.
This role, in which t ilo , Iiiln tlai.' 'at
r'esses as Ai htinie tisell antd lad'y
Gertrude. ",ii ,et,- ouh tb i h ti dit til
guished thriceli-h ill N.ii w " 'oill. aid
London, tc*jitistivel y, dhvelop:. tlh i i
pulses anld wshilw, ii itirs of i 'oni'ia ti('
youth, and it iiti is l ltr - i ,tre e reatdi
ly seen that Mlis.;, t'larit is emniiieittly
llited to tii. c aptlivatl i . iftptr :tll
tion. Whith ithe ahlitliotal inlteres;t
t'Ohtlibtlmti I, "t irril dhrafiatit
onflit , h hul wvit h h a tinitil d -.
lineation t I it aliife t h a the y
were klnow it ii lit, ll ti t a a -t Ivo1
day, "Mit'e nld Melt" i . ii tin t itt il'
tti .itt e'Xstli iti I a i t ra st ei I i; lut .
yet prodticeel
Famlout Stars i, Iox v,-ature.
Heralded a. om of tly .,)it ;un ret
dramas that [la>, t v r co. ttte f' oml tiff'
Celebrat.ed Will tnl Foax 'ttihlio'', "The
IJUtfaithftll \VI'," st: ri I t Irt
Mantell aul (I tl. ieve llitltper, is
booked flu prt-reti tin t the +randl
Tuesday. liriefttily, Itt'h :toty floit s:
Counti Fain. li:tta i t i(Mr. .r\lsttetll)
lives happil'y iii tUle ist'e of his Ie-t in
tif tll wife it, uliet Mtrlli:;i , llt enp r), in
whom he belie ,, impliuctly. Hit itn
mIes), astl tlulitt -.cretly love etch; t 1
other, but Rl itnitl is litd to the
bond of adoration which is dvilop
ing day hby ayi y tt.trti tis wifels and
the artist.
Whetn cholhste:i " ptni.l<t o ver the lit
tle Italian v iii.t,, itn which ti l trii
Iinest' ho has "lit iil
live . p n i t 'its tfi i nhi ib it'lant s.
lot nl i dtvt hlt t t >iyi tlpti tits of tlhe
dreaded coiinp et hiut ini reallity his
latdispo.t il, i th els hit i \ttet' h s than
hunta'o.nt s'i o t'i h it s i thet aels oft
conspire ' to h it h it n Iii- d alive ' hs
one who has s.rieu-bliedto th lilt` plague.
An enrt of ewel' Collin ii procured I
ati l et tih nt sli tilut it fu t i' ll t o' lanli
i s all t'tesh t it us' toipse.itatd to the
famnily tilbi. Wh i he regailis his
s.eas the eli r lzatioi ti slowly tComes
to hint that i is withi, the l tru hesone
treaihers 01 hith s vtlit. Aftel fsiper
hura elroit i e ui's, thi t e s ti of
release front tChe tomb hte di.oeves at
casket of jewi.ls wyhii'h an outlaw has
stored in the tnitlt fl'or safe keeping.
Irt is afte iti.s escape that humanlfti
realizef t first fimet the un
faithfuliess of his wife and the
treaehery of his erstwihile friend,
Dur'azzi." ie disguises himself as the
wealthy Count Caesare and seeks the
company of his wife and the artist,
neither of whom suspects his identity.
He lavishes his wife with part of the
jewels obtained from the bandit's
treasure chest and thus ingratiates
himnself into her esteem. Promising
to give her all of the gems in the col
tection if she will marry him, he in
dacces her to overthrow Durazzi, to
whom she is betrothed. As Count
C'aesare, he marries his wife for the
Liscond time. She immediately re
mind:: him of hi; promise regarding
the precious stones.
Blindiolding her, Romani take:
u.liet to the tomb, shows her the
treasure, over which she gloats greed
Sily, and then tears the false beard
from his face. When Juliet realizes
that it is the living Count Fabio to
whom she is talking and that he is
cognizant of her perfidy, she begs fori
nmercy. Fabti, however, turns a:t
nhii .l'ing ear to her entreaties,
locks her in the vault and leaves her
a raving maniac--his vengeance com
plete.
"The Golden Chance."
Widely known to motion p)icture
devotees throughout the country,
Cleo Ridgely and Wallace Reid, both
of whom frequently have appeared in
support of famous stars, will make
their first appearance as co-stars in
the Lasky production, "The Golden
Chance," which will he seen Wednes
day at the Grand.
Miss Ridgely's last appearance was
in the title role of the Lasky picturi
zation of the famous success, "The
Chorus Lady." Mr. Reid appeared ill
this production, but his chief claim to.
popularity has-been by reason of his
remiarkable performance as Don Jose
in support of Geraldine Farrar in
S"Carmen."
In "The Golden Chance" these two
exceptional artists will be seen to
their best advantage. Miss Ridgely
I as a poor seamstress suddenlly con
fronted with an opportunity to en
joy for a brief period the luxuries of
life and to forget her own poverty,
girasps at the chance. Cinderella-like
she meets a financial prince, Wallace
Reid, who falls in love with her.
Cir.tutastances compel the seamstress
to hide her real identity and refuse
her golden chance, Subsequently,
however, these complications are ov
ercome after a series of exciting and
dramatic situatidi;i and the audience]
'is iven tso .hiedAtaR tn r. pi i
ly.
Fritzi Scheff in 'Pretty Mrs. Smith."
Suppose you married a missionary,
went to Africa with him, tired of the
the life, came home, and having re
ceived news that your husand was
dead, promptly proceeded to marry
another man with the same last name.
With this husband you attem!pt
love in a cottage, and finding he is
not a good provider, you threaten to
.sue htim for non-support. lie disap
pears, leaving a note of farewell
pinned to his coat, which is discov
ered at the edge of the sad sea waves.
l1a ving thus disposed of No. 2,
you fall in love again, this time with
a wealthy clubman, athletically in
(elined, but of a jealous nature. Later
No. : threatens to sue for divorce,
alfter having left you to your own
dev.ies.
Now, iippose all three husbands
h-oultli reappear at one time, do you
th0i1, you vWould really be a bigamist,
:alt what do you think you would do?
'ihi i, ; the situation in which Fritzi
St'hef litdIk herself in the title role
of "'Pretty iMr;. Smith," in which she
w\ill he .;*en at the tGrand next Fri
;I'h, te: method of solving this
putrle i:: to see for youiiise.f how
the t ra;ini program for f S tutdiay,
.iii :' , will comprise the ninth ili
:,iode of "The Iron Claw," a Chaplin
ci,ie.ty, Piray cartoon and Pathe
Forethought.
Pt-o,l'e are learning that a little
I .te,*lho ght often saves them a big
e'xpei.,e. ihere is an instance: "I do
Inot ibeliei e that. our family has been
i'wn 0lh,ut 'hamberlain's Colic, Cholera
atn, hiai rhoea Remedy since we conm
i.,nnted Itb'eeping house years ago.
Wi,. n wi go on an. extended visit we
t:eit with ut." Obtainable every
I, hu ',,-,-- - tie. . I'.
Lillian Gish, who plays the heroine in
the Triangle.Fine Arts romantic
play, "'iDaphne and the Pirate"
It is estimated there is enough
waste from the-sawmills of the south
alone to produce twenty thousand
tons of paper a day,
Iine Atiactions at the Gem.
One of ti'he Best prograims that has
ever been npresented at the Gem
'rThnatrie will be offered tonight,
when ll te ol' il opiper, the distin
g'ui,'hed dratnatic star, will be seen in
the title role of "'Don Quixote," a
't ialntle picturization of thi Cter
Slante: clas:ic, inii live pallt, followed
by a ,wreatininr two-reel Triiang'ie
Key toite comeidy, "His Pride and
Shaime," featui iin_ Foid Sterling. It
it ,el oily bie said that both of the e
piiducitioii. bearl the ianle st.:t-mp
o i < teillince, to convety the as.o -
anlee th-t they wi iprovide- a delight
Iful eV Ciln ' i entertaineiii aniid af
fordt tiialloyed t-ijoyilient lto all who
''ilthe let' :iilnrliaciclilem t thatl. Clara
Kii alt l l A t 'il", tlitee1 of tthe -creen,
-will be ..eein :tl thl, ('Illl tO1iOmorrow, is
illticii it to evoke initenise oineesl t
ai oiuni l+ t':11 lictiure p to'nsls. WVheii
itl is a.tled that ihe ipriidttCtioil id
iiivt hic ie ii to appLIeart, "The east of
Life," i: "Brody Aide" ihli of less
thait sil y days' rielease., Ithe first of
thit.e su li ipat ive Ci'eatioiti to be Cx
hibit.l l re), (lie re iu ll t1ion it, ji.s
itiled that tlhe be-a:til'l stiar will be
p'i'eted iy thiront is of adiiiiers that
will li'llk the' theatre at every per
i'ori-i:tce, a.d that her delination of
thte iadin role will full sustain her
wxlled ,epullion tfor hit a ionic
ability andl dryamllatll forec.,
ilei'eal'ter, World and hEquitable
pictures will be shown att l t hen et
everiy day in tllh wei k except \Vednes
dayit, wsOnhtt1 the hill dill com prise
hepisl tile of the tlatsi "Girl and the
coiedies; ai l Saturdays, when tTi
-ngle productions will ho presented.
On Sundays l:ru'ady-Made World fea
tures will be the attraetion. The
prices on Saluti'dty:; anlld Sundays will
Amnong the (etin bookings for the
otConing week arel' lihe following:
Sunday, .1 Junie 18-C(hla Kimball
Young in "T'he Feast-of Life."
Tuesday--Alice lrady in "The
Loss,"
Wedniesday-"Th' e (irl an the
( ane."
Thursday -Ale" ItranceiF in "The
ilmpostolr.'"
'riday--Vivian Martin in "'The
Little Dutch Girl."
SaturdaIy-Lillian Gish in "Daphne
,e 1 'oreu a triumph t>a Elsie Soine
man it - "The Birth of a Nation."
Barely twenty yeats old, ithe is ree
oginized as one of the most talented
stars of the sc'reen, :and has achieved
remarkable success ill many of the
wiltdeiftill iproductions lilmned under
the direction of that wizard of the
camera, D. W. Griffith,
Return Engagement of Annette Kel
lerinann in "Neplttine'ls Dautlghter."
Owiing' to tthe fact that many pa
trolls of the'silent drama were unable
to see this i'orgeous pr'odtuction on the
-..
occasion of its presecntltion at the
(;enm Theatre May 21, due to the in
,element weather which prevailed on
that dlate, Manager Van Lotten, by
special request, has booked a return
engagement of the niagnilicent film
for Monday, June 2(i.
The wonilrous beautty of the story,
writtetn by Captain Leslie T, Pea
coceke; the linlch:intiun; scenes aflord
,d by the [term dnI lai'lands~ with their
cor·al reefs, sunbmatriine giottos, senti
tlopic verduitt and the vast expanse
of tlhe wide Atlantiti; the company of
over 2tt00 ators, headled iby Miss Kel
lermann, who, asntie from her mar
velhus aquatic 'eiats. which she has
maiiy olportulnities ti di.splay in this
dranma, piuo'es that slith is also a splein
diid : tre.:;, a nce'ful danceer, an ex
pert -swordsw-nttai, ail mistress of a
hundred :ii-as whic h contribute to the
suit'ss of the production; the master
ly stagtint,. of the dramin b.y Herbert
Breno,--;nil tliee are factors which
help to i:ake "Neptunte's )Daughter"
a lproduti(tio to be watched with de
light.l and ntevr to be forgotten.
"Neptune's Daughlter" was pro
duced atl cost of I50,000U and was
three months in preparation. its suc
cess in New York has been sensation
al. Broadwa.'s most fashionable
playhouse, the Clolbe Theatre, where
it enjoyed a phenomenal run, was fill
ed at every performance with en
\kz
Fend of AllCiviliztion
AMERICANS who have travelled the world
over say'"BUDWEISER is without an equal
in any civilized land. Its popularity embraces
the two hemisphere -wherever man goes for
health,or pleasure, or business, lUD EISER
is there" Its sales exceed any other beer by
millions of bottles, because its uniform Q tality
Purity Mildness and exclusive Saazer Hop
Flavor . always ~ad ever h same
ANHEUSER*BUSCH * ST. LOUIS,US.A.
Vi b t.Lwa vs wle cowramusy inviat o inpvs orp p6aaa
Budweiser
Means Moaeration
S Donaldsonville Ice Co., Ltd.
- - 1d~nyj=e,
tranced audiences whose interest and
applause endorsed the general opinion
that this is the greatest photoplay
ever produced.
Never before have the newspapers
of New York devoted so much atten
tion to or bestowed as much praise on
a film production.
Without exception the metropoli
tan critics pronounced "Neptune's
Daughter" the most wonderful photo
dranma ever conceived and executed.
CITRUS CANKER.
Disease Described and Methods of
Eradication Outlined.
Every citrus-fruit grower in Louis
ina should have a copy of Circular
No. 15, entitled Citrus Canker, which
has .iust been issued by the extension
division of the Louisiana State Uni
versity.
This circular discusses the origin
and distribution of the citrus canker,
the appearance of the disease, the va
rieties atfected, the cause of the dis
ease, how it is spread, etc. It also
discusses the eradication of the dis
ease and shows this can be done only
by burning the infected trees.
The growers of citrus fruits should
do all in their power to help the can
ker eradication work. They are the
ones who will profit by the vork, and,
on the other hand, it will h their loss
if the canker is not eradicated.
Some of the things the growers and
those interested in the orange in
dustry vshould do may be briefy enum
inrated as follows:
1. Keep out of the groves, stay
away from all citrus trees and do not
allow animals to run in the orchards.
D)o not allow visitors in your or
chards. Individuals with canker cures
should be invited to stay away. The
only persons who should be permitted
to go' near the trees are the inspectors
who have charge of the eradication
work.
2. It is very dangerous to set out
citrus stock of any kind until the
canker is under complete control. To
plant citrus stock at the present time
will only help to complicate a serious
situation and is liable to spread the
disease,
3. Be careful in picking fruit. The
disease can be spread very easily by
fruit pickers. If there is canker
present in the neighborhood inspect
ors should be consulted in regard to
picking the fruit.
4. Help the inspectors as much as
possible in their work. This can be
done by giving them information re
agnding citrus plantings in the local
ity and by rendering them any desired
-issistance while they are inspecting.
Remember at all times that the
citrus industry depends upon the
- radication of the canker. If the
- canker is eradicated Louisiana can
become an important citrus-growing
state; otherwise, there is little hope
for the industry.
Joseph Holley, a popular young
-entleman of Lutcher, was offered
and has accepted the position of scal
er and representative of the Miles
Timber Company's interests at New
R Hope in the parishes of Ascension
-and Iberville.--St. James Interim.
e Sheriff IL H. Marrero of Jefferson
( parish has qualified for his fifth term.
Show your colors..-Wear a fair key.
DIRE DISTRESS. o
It is Near, at Hand to Hundreds of 1i
Donaldsonville Readers.
Don't neglect an aching back. A
Backache is often the kidneys' cry p
for help. i
Neglect hurrying to the kidneys' d
aid A
Means that urinary troubles may b
follow. a
Or danger of worse kidney trouble, a
Here's Belle Rose testimony: s
E. E. Lauve, postmaster, Belle 1l
Rose, La., says: "Grip weakened my t
kidneys and i had difficulty in retain- f
ing the kidney secretions. They con- e
tained much sediment and were un- a
natural. My back was so stiff that Ip
took to bed. My eyes were swollen
most of the time. Doctors could do a
nothing and neither did the remedies r
I tried. I then began taking Doan's v
Kidney Pills and although I had run t
down in weight to one hundred and t
thirty-one pounds, I improved so c
steadily that in a short time I weigh
ed one hundred and sixty-tive pounds.
1 have remained at that weight ever ,
since. My kidneys are now normal t
and I don't have any trouble from t
my back. I still occasionally take I
Doan's Kidney Pills, as I find'that
they are an excellent kidney and 4
t,ladder tonic."
Price 50 cents, at all dealers. Don't
simply, ask for a kidney remedy-get t
Doan's- Kidney Pills-the same that
Mr. Lauve had. Foster-Milburn
Co., Props., Buffalo, N. Y.-(Adv.)
LIVE STOCK MARKET.
Information of Interest for Breeders
and Shippers.
National Stock Yards, Ill., June 12.
Today's receipts: Cattle, 5000;
hogs, 8000. Cattle market active and
steady to strong, compared with last
week's close.
Killing cattle: Choice to prime
-teers, $7 to $8; good to choice, $6.50
to $7.50; medium to good, $5.75 to
$6.50; common to medium, $5.25 to
$5.75; canners, $4.50 to $5; cutters,
$5 to $5.50; medium cows, $5.50 to
$6; choice fat cows, $6 to $7; light
bulls, $5.25 to $5.75; heavies, $5.75
to $6.50; yearlings, $4.75 to $5.25;
heretics, $5.50 to $6.50; light veal
calves, $7 to $11.
Stock cattle (from tick free terri
tory): Good to choice quality thin
.teers,$6.50 to $7; medium to good,
$5.75 to $6.50; common to medium,
$5.25 to $5.75; good young heifers,
$5.25 to $6.
Good weight hogs 10 cents higher;
top $9.65, other kinds steady. Bulk
of the good hogs 160 lb s. up, $9.10
to $9.50; 120 to 140-1b. pigs, $8.50
to $9; lighter pigs. $7.50 to $8.50;
r roughs, $8.75 to $9.
SN.ATIONAL LIVE STOCK COMMIS
SION COMPANY.
Stomach Troubles and Constipation.
i "I will cheerfully say that Cham
berlain's Tablets are the most satis
s factory remedy for stomach troubles
v and constipation that I have sold in
a thirty-your years' drug store service,"
writes S. H. Murphy, druggist, Wells
burg, N. Y. Obtainable everywhere.
a -(Adv.)
Clara Kimball Young in "The Feast
T. of Life" at the Gem tomorrow.
IMMUNIZING POWDER SUCCESS.
New Orleans Physicians Find Pre
ventive For Hog Cholera.
The hog cholera immunizing pow
der perfected by Drs. Charles W.
Duval and M. COoret, of the Tulane
medical faculty alnd the Charity Hos
pital pathological laboratory, is a suc
cess. Also, it has been patented and
protected. It is expected to prove
the greatest boo.i bestowed upon the
production of pork and to make Lou
isiana the leading-hog state.
Word comes frb5n Washington that
the government .tests conducted at
Ames, Iowa, were eminently satisfac
tory. A number Of hogs received the
injection of the powder behind their
ears, and after the period of immuni
zation they were- subjected to con
tract with the disease without con
tiacting it. The 'claim is that olne
dose will protect an an aimal for life,
which, therefore, makes it the easiest
and cheapest possible guarantee
against cholera, doing away with the
danger which hs caused immense
loss in all the states. The Iowa Ag
ricultural College: which has taken
a leading part in experiments in vari
ous phases of the hog industry, has
made preliminary tests and is now
said to be about completing a trial on
a large scale to confirm the govern
ment's conclusion. It is also said
that some linal tests are being made
at Washiiigton by, the scientists of
the Department of Agriculture, main
ly for the benefit of the committees
of congress before whom the Louisi
ana experts laid thhe important details
a few months ago.,
Serum manufacurers in various
parts of the counti'y have been keep
ing track of developments, and some
of them are said to have foreseen the
triumphant endorsement and to have
started activity towards securing the
right of producing the powder as soon
as the government's finding is final
and official. It is understood, how
ever, that such negotiations have not
been encouraged, and that if the in-.
vention is turned.over to any but na
tional or state officials the first, and
perhaps the main or only plant will
be located in Louisiana, where the
powder originated. Under the medi
cal code of ethics observed here, no
information is given out by the
doctors themse4es, and the first
specific news wilprobably come from
Washington or some other outside
source. The detaiis given, however,
are substantially correct.-Times
Picayune.
ASSUMPTION AROUSED.
Will Be Coas r for Capital Prize
at Faine
L. x. Martih'the wida.wake agri
cultural agent of Assumptioa parish,
who conducts a department in the As
sumption Pioneer under the caption
of "'Timely Topics for Progressive
Farmers," had the following to say
last Saturday:
"Last week, Mr. Vickers, secretary
manager of the South Louisiana Fair
Association, published a letter in this
paper, urging the farmers of the par
ish to save samples of their best pro
ducts for the fall fair. Heretofore,
Assumption parish has practically
been asleep when it comes to making
a good showing at the fair. Only
about five or six farmers have ever
shown an interest in this work. A
large percentage of the exhibits sent
to the fair have won prizes, but the
farmers of the parish do not take
enough interest, and as a result we
are represented only by a very few
products. Why not get together and
make the South Louisiana Fair take
notice of Assumption's products, and
not let Iberville parish walk away
with $250 every year. Don't you
think Assumption parish can grow
better cane, rice, cotton, potatoes,
corn, alfalfa, oats, etc., than Iber
ville? Why yes we can, and are 4o
ing it every year, but the public will
never know this unless we advertise,
by showing our best products at the
Ifair. Why is it, then, that [iberville
has won the prize for two years?
Well, because every farmer in the
parish takes an interest in the fair,
and in his own parish. Thus the two
working together is bound to make
them win. We can do likewise in As
umaption, if all will work together,
e lid displays to the fair this fall,
and put Assumption on the map as
having the best agricultural products
in south Louisiana. Let us work and
win that $250."
I --
Bowel Complaints in India.
In a lecture at otie of the Des
Moines, Iowa, churches a missionary
from India told of going into the in
terior of India, where he was taken
sick, that he had a bottle of Cham
berlain's Colic, Cholera and Diar
rhoea Remedy with him and believed
that it saved his life. This remedy
is used successfully in India both as a
preventive and cure for cholera. You
may know from this that it can be
depended upon for the milder forms
of bowel complaint that occur in this
country. Obtainable everywhere.
(Adv.)
Every able-bodied citizen of As
cension parish, the home of the big
South Louisiana Fair, should wear a
key from now until October 5. It is
concrete, tangible evidence that you
believe in the fair and want to boost
it. In other words, it proves that you
are a patriotic, public-spirited citizen.
It is to everybody's interest to pa
tronize home" Industries. No com
munity can succeed where this policy
is not carried out. Keep youi money
at home by buying at home.
The home merchants are prepared
to supply your needs. Buy from
them, and by keeping your money at
home help build up your own com
munity.
Music Teaching.
Mrs. W. A. Poche, 211 Chetimaches
street, teaches piano, singing and
harmony. Beginners a specialty.
t For results! Advertise in The
Chief. Rates on application.
CALLED TO ETERNAL REST.
Mrs. Ovide Lejeune, Former Donald
sorvillian, Paises Away.
St. Francisville True-D em.,crat, June 1d.
Mrs. Claire Weber, wife of Ovide
Lejeune, died at Hotel Dieu, New
Orleans, Thursday evening, June 8,
191t, at 7 o'clock, aged 42 years and
5 months. The funeral took place
from the family residence to the
Catholic church at 4 p. Fn., Friday,
June t. Interment in (ri'ac t'eme
te ry.
Mrs. Lejeune was taken ill sudden
ly !Friday night of last week, her
physican pronouncitng the ailment
ctronic alppendicitis and advisial an
operation as soon as she was able to
undergo it. Accordingly she was ta
ken to the Hotel Dieu, New Orleans,
Saturday, but the operation did not
take place till Wedne'day, and was a
lengthy and cotimpilieted one, lasting
fotur hours. 'The heart became affect
ed by the .'tiethetict', and from the
first pthysiciai ; gave no encourage
mtnt. Sthe lapsed into unconscious
ness, Thursdaiy Inorning., and except
for a brief period in th. afternoon
when she knew and spoke to her hus
band, remained unconscious till the
end.
Mrs. Lejeune's untimely death, be
sides being a great and abiding grief
to her family andl friends, and the
desolation of a happy home, is a loss
in usefulness to the world. A woman
of a high order of varied talents, well
educated and well-read, knowing and
loving the best in books, music and
art, ste was fitted to adorn any circle,
but spent most of her time at home,
looking after "the ways of her house
hold," guiding and rearing her chil
dren. Her life was a busy and happy
one. An artist, with her needle, her
brush, and her flowers, everything
she touched she beautified, her ex
quisite taste and sense of fitness guid
ing her in every concrete expression
of her life and personality. She was
a devout communicant of the Catho
lic church, active in its work and hen
eficencies. She was a devoted wife
and mother, a loving sister, and a sin
cere friend. She had the merit of
candor.and one was never uncertain
as to one's place in her esteem,
whether high or low, precious indeed
to the lover of sincerity.
She was born in St. Francisville,
daughter of D. L. Weber and Emilie
Gondran; her girlhood was spent in
Donaldsonville, where her mother re
sided. after her father's death. She
was educated at Nazareth, Ky., and
while on visits here to her grand
mother, Mrs. E. Weber, met her fu
ture husband, and they were married
here. The all-too-short married life
this week's tragedy brings to a close,
the; stricken husband and :childretn.
The latter are Edgar, a youth at Jef
ferson College, and two daughters,
hMiss Marie Louise, in her early teens,
and Sunshine. Her two sisters are
Mrs, G. C. Howell of Baton Rouge
and 'Mrs. W. T. Forrester of St.
F'rancisville. Mrs. J. P- Newsham is
her only aunt.
Mrs. Lejeune was a niece of Jos
eph Gondran and a first cousin of
Messrs. Caleb and Ilarry Weber, of
Donaldsonville. She had many
friends in this community who were
deeply grieved to learn of her un
timely death, and who join in extend
ing sincere sympathy to the bereaved
family.
AN EXCELLENT SELECTION.
Appointment of Major McCrory to
Head Militia Warmly Commended.
If Governor Pleasant's appointment
of Major C. C. McCrory to be adju
tant general is an index to those that
will follow, the public service will be
well maintained during his adminis
tration.
Major McCrory is a national
guardsman and as adjutant general
will continue the work of building
up that organization so well begun
by Adjutant General McNeese. His
acquaintance with military affairs is
well attested by his service as com
mandant of cadets at Louisiana State
University and at Lafayette Indus
trial Institute, and by his position in
the national guard as major of the
First Regiment.
Under the new army bill, which
went into effect a week ago, the na
tional guard will become an import
ant factor in the national plan of de
fense. In Louisiana it will he nec
essary to add at least five thousand
to its membership during the coming
year. The people of the state will
probably take a deeper interest in the
national guard when the fact is
brought home to them that it is ill
that stands between them and com
pulsory military service, if the pres
ent European war continues or if
peace is made without any assurance
of its permanency.
It is highly important that Louisi
ana should have a citizen soldier, with
a knowledge of military matters, in
charge of the building up and train
ing of the organization, well quali
fied to prepare it for possible active
service. Gov. Pleasant has undoubt
edly chosen such a man in Major Mc
Crory. The American-Press hope,
that the state-will support the new
adjutant general in the task which he
must undertake.-Lake Charles Am
i erican-Press.
t -
a The appointment of Major MeCrory
as adjutant general is distinctively
good, not only because he is emi
nently well-qualified for the position,
but for the still better reason that
Y the appointment was not a political
Y one. Major McCrory asked for the
position upon his record and his it
ness. He got it. May it prove an
augury for future appointments of
n like nature, where the public service,
the appearance of Louisiana abroad
iand her good at home, should be the
first consideration.-St. Francisville
True-Democrat.
s The Chief is the official jour
Id nal of the police jury, parish school
board and city council of Donaldson
ville. Send us your subscription and
te keep posted on the official proceed
ings of these important bodies.
