dBCUUHOffi a ^ yam /
Dally Average A Q7A
for May, 1916 y/ U
A Quality Newtpaper for the Homo
ADVERTISING IN
THE WEST VIRGINIAN
BRINGS TRADE .
KorthemWettrvgima'sGreatestNwpaper'+J <
FAIRMONT. WEST VIRGINIA, SATURDAY EVENING, JUNE 17,1916.
ITABLISHED 1868.
TODAY'S NEWS TODAY.
ASSOCIATED PRESS.
WAR WITH MEXICO MAY OCCUR AT ANY MOMENT
Hn ,
??wWB' - -- --------'- -??
Officers Are Tracing
More Clues to His
Door.
MAY HAVE GOT JEWELRY
Tells Two Stories About
[Whereabouts Day Alex
ander's Were Robbed.
..yfe
"With time for a hearing getting:
close and wearing of hla confinement, |
Worthy Lanham, to a certain extent j
repenting, is beginning to tell of his |
actions during the past few weeks.
Ho admitted yesterday that he stolo
$71 and a match from William Bailey.
This forenoon he told Thomas Buck
ley that he also robbed the home of
Miss Laura Sautters on Madison
street. He states that ho got a boy's
penny bank from Saulters' which con
tained $12 Hrf kept tho money and
threw the bank, after Merrill smash-,
Gd It, into a creek. He also got from
*hli house a saphire broach and a
dottle of wine. Neither of these ar
ticles can be accounted for. He told
Deputy Buckley that he made two
trips to the Saultcr residence one on
Thursday when he came away empty
handed and on the following Satur
day when he got tho goods.
Prosecuting Attorney Walter Hag
irtrty has been questioning the young
flters concerning their whereabouts on
Rlngling circus day but lias not man
aged to make much lioadway. It was
on this day that tho homo of George
M.* Alexander was robbed of $1,200
wortjppf jewelry and money. At first
Lanham stated that he was not out
of the house on circus day. He stuc''
to this statement for two days bu
this morning admitted that was a.i
far as the South side bridge, at noon
He evades all direct questions but
before being told that he was to be
charged with the Alexandor robbery
said "I didn't rob Alexander's, I don't
know nothing about It."
Merrill claims that ho was about
' town all of circus day but is unable
j to account specifically for any of the
time.
; Another feature of the case came to
i light today when Curtis Merrill, fath
er of Benjamin Merrill, brought a
; watch to Prosecuting Attorney Hag
gerty. Mr- Merrill was asked why he
had never investigated concerning the
watch and why he had not given up
the timepiece as soon as he heard that
his son was accused of stealing sev
eral watches. "You never asked me
about the watch," he answered. Ask
.ed if he had received anything elao
thaf might have beon secured through
| improper sources tho father said he
[?had hot
tV/Tlie county officers nTe Btlll working
i; on the location of the fence which
S they are certain exists but have been
nfaable to find it's whereabouts.
A saphire ring and two $1.50 gold
ppieces it developed today were also
taken from the room of C. H. Tarleton,
4 the railroader, who lost two watches.
The two watches were found at Clarks
burg yesterday evening by Clarks
burg police who were given a descrip
tion of the goods. One was found
in a jewelry shop where It had been
taken for repairs and the other was
* aed over to the police by a young
l who had bought It at the Clarks
r .wufg carnival from a "stranger."
I Another watch which Lanham stole
[ifo claims he gave to Benjamin Mer
rill, his co-worker for $8. Merrill re
fuses to say where this watch has
gone. A hand bag which was stolen
from Miss Olive Davis, of Piedmont
avenue, about two weeks ago is
thought to have been taken by Mer
rill and Lanham. They will bo inter
rogated in this matter as soon as varl
i ous places in the city xhave been
aearched for the bag.
Club Women to Sell
Chautauqua Tickets
The Playgrounds Committee of the
Woman's Club has taken over the sale
and delivery of tickets for the Red
path Brockway Chatauqua course that
will be ah event hero the week of July
2. Mrs. Clyde E. Hutchinson Is chair*
man of the committee and her assist
ants are Mrs. J. Walter Barnes, Mrs.
B. 0. Hartley, Mrs. Lloyd Sample,
Mrs. C. O. Jackson and Mrs. B. LI
? Butcher. A canvass of the town will
be made in the near future by teams
composed of club women for the sale
of tickets.
^The work will be done on a commls
sion basis and the proceeds netted by
tSfiPlaygrounds committee will go to*
warn that work.
imrttm
Dance at Traction Park
MONDAY EVENINO,
Jane 19th .8:30 to 11:80.
PUBLIC INVITED.
Charles E. Hughes?The Candidate!
. .v,-^ wri\ . ; ? ./'VW" --??:- > ? ?> \ 77?v.V
Hero are the. first pictures of Charles Evans Hughes, showing how he looked after he tossed aside the judicial robes;of the United States su
preme court and entered the whirl of politics as a candidate for the .presidency of the .United States.
The pictures were taken "when Hughes arrlvecj in New York to make preliminary arrangements for his campaign. It was his first trip into polit
ical activities since the days when he was campaigning as governor of \NewlYork.
$114,100,000
Worth of Gold in
Bars in One Pile
(By Associated Press)
PHILADELPHIA, Juno 17?Tons
of British sovereigns have been
shipped across the Atlantic /luring
the past six months and much of
this minted gold has boon molted
at Philadelphia and other mints
into bars and stacked In tho sub
treasury at tho mint
Approximately $10,000idO0* in coin
has arrived at a local mint in the
last few days from'Canada, 52,000,
000 arriving yesterday from Otta
wa.
The stacks of gold In the mint
vaults contain 16,300 bars, each
one being worth, about. $7,000. .
H. P. Rogers Heads
Science Teachers
Over one hundred science tcachers
of the schools of West Virginia as
sembled in the science section of the
State Education association at Clarks
burg yesterday organized themselves
into a separato organization. Tho ob
jects of tliis association is to brlnp
the science teachers together for study
of their own teachings problems, to
secure co-operation among them for
tho betterment of conditions under
which they work and for general ex
change of ideas. H. F. Rogers; of the
Fairmont State Normal school,' was
elected president and Howard J. Mc
Glnnis, also of the Fairmont Norma
was elected secretary.
Eudora Ramsey to
Speak Here Monday
Miss Eudora Ramsey, state suffrage
worker, will address a Fairmont au
dience on Monday afternoon at &
o'clock at the Woman's building at tha
corner of Main street, and Cleveland'
avenue
Miss Ramsely has spent the.last
five months in suffrage work in the
state and has been heard in many of
the state cities and smalled towns .dur
ing that period. She is a speaker of
much ability.
The public is invited to hear the ad
dress.
The Weather,
West Virginia?Fair tonight and
Sunday.
LOCAL WEATHER READINGS
F. P. Hall, Observer
Temperature at 8 a. m. today 62.
Yesterday's weather cloudy; tem
perature, maximum 79; minimum 57;
precipitation .07.
40 CENT CIGARS
HANDED OUT IN
PRIMARYFIGHT
Not Many, 'Tis True But
Then the Doner Was
Unopposed.
The after-primary statements of
expense that are required to' be filed
with.- the..county clerk within thirty
days following the primary are begin
ning to come In and somo of them make
enjoyable reading for those whose
sense of humor Is in need of a tickle.
Walter Haggerty, Democratic can
didate for prosecuting attorney was
one of the first to file his statement.
He certifies, that he spent the sum of
$6.60 since filing- his previous state
ment of $95.40. This makes a total
of $102 which Walter paid to be nom
inated on his ticket and, considering
that ho had no opponent, it shows that
he is of a generous disposition. Of
the $6.60. he states that $6.00 of it was
paid for 15 cigars and the .60 cents was
for car fare. Forty cents a piece for
cigars ought to buy rather good ones
and not of tho ordinary campaign
variety. It is hardy fair howover to
'single out fifteen favored workers to
receive these. Walter recivd some
thing over 2,000 votes and <Ve v?te is
as good as another.
Leslie G. Michael, candidate for con
stable on the Democratic ticket in
Fairmont district, not to be outdone
by his fellow candidates loosened up
and spent $5 for an autombile on
election day, according to his state
ment. This however was all he could
stand and together with the $11.00 he
spent before the primary makes
$16.50. The $5 was paid'according to
It O.Allan. '-'J
Frank Haymond, Democratic candi
date for house of delegates/according
to his new statement, incurred no ex
pense either bfifore or after the elec
tion with the exception of his $10 fee
which is required.
John W. Mason, Jr., Republican
elected at the primary to the state ex
ecutive committee ? spent . nothing.
Brooks Hutchinson Republican candi
date for house of delegates incurred
no now expense and total remains $1.6
aB before, which covers his fee arid
some cards he had printed. J. L. Ten
nan t, Republican candidate for the
nomination of house of delegates
spent $21.70. Only $2.50 of this was
incurred since the filing of his former
statement. Most of Tcnnant's expen
ses were carfare and his fee to the
sheriff, _
ROBINSON VflTf
IS GfiOVMG ABAII
Canvassed Returns From 43
Counties In?Majority
is 297.
(By Associated Press)
WHEELING, -Juno 17.?The major
ity for Judgo Ira Robinson, candidate
governor at the recent primary elec
tion, was increased to 297 over Attor
ney Genoral A. A. Lilly by the comple
tion of the recount in rive additional
counties, according, to. advises receiv*'
cd here today. The biggest gain was
in Berkeley county where a transposi
tion of votes for Robinson and Lilly re
sulted* in nn increase of 81 for the
former.
Canvassed returns have now been
received from 43 of 55 counties in the
state.
Proposed Camp Site
Pleased Gen. Bond
As soon as the routine orders can
be issued and the red' tape unwound
the local officer of the National Guard
will be officially notified by Goneral
Bond to proparo for the encampment
of tbo. two West Virginia regiments.
The recommendations are first made
to the Governor and the War depart
ment at Washington who in turn trans*
mit the suggestion back to the Guard
as an order. Both General Bond and
Colonel Jolllfe before they left last
night told the:local officers and the}
men who are back of the movement to'
hold the State Guard encampment
here, that thoy were well pleased with
the grounds and that the " encampment
would undoubtedly be held here for
the ten days following July 26 or 27.
The two regiments comprise nearly"
2,000 men.
Gov, Fleming to Send
Fairmont's Greetings
Ex-Governor A. B. Fleming has been
secured by tho local Chamber of Com
merce to transmit oyer .tbe telephone
the fifty-three word message of greet
lng from Fairmont to the large meet
ing at Charleston In commomoratlon
ot the admission of "Welt VJrglnIa<intO'
the Union as a separate state. At the
Informal gathering to be bold In the
local Chamber, rooms next Tuesday
evening telephone receivers will bo
arranged so that all who are present"
may hear the greeting ot President
Wilson to the cltliess ot West Vir
ginia.
ROCKEFELLER JR.
HERE TO IHSPECT
GOAL PROPERTIES
Traveling in Company of Of
ficers of Western Mary
land Railroad.
President Carl R. Gray, of the West
ern Maryland, John D. Rockefeller,
Jr., an?l ai{ Inspection party of West
ern Maryland railroad officials and
Consolidation Coal company officials
will arrive in Fairmont this evening
and bo entertained at the home of
Senator C. W. Watson until tomorrow
afternoon.
The-party, arrived in Clarksburg this
mcniiiij, from their trip through the
Kentucky-territory and leaving their
special train at*1 that place visited Con- j
sulfation mines Numbers 25 and 29.
Leaving Clarksburg in a special trol
loy car over the Monongahela Valley
Tract ion lines" the party went to Mead
owbiook and Gypsy. From Gypsy to
Lucas rMill where they were taken in j
motor cars to Wyatt and to view the
propoeed new development of the
Bingamon field. From Wyatt the
party returned to Paradise, the sum
mer home of Brooks Fleming, Jr.,
where at two o'clock this afternoon
lunch *as served. From Paradise the
party visited Mines 86 and 87 on Hel
ens Run. being transported over the
Western Maryland road on flat cars.
From the Helens Hun section the
party will come to Fairmont arriving
here about five o'clock this evening.
The visitors will be the guests of Sen-1
ator (' W. Watson at his home here i
until they leave tomorrow .afternoon
on ihe special train to return to Bal
timore.
.Prominent men in the party are
President Carl R. Gray, of the Western
Maryland; J. PL Wheelwright, presi
dent: of the Consolidation Coal com
pany;* John" D. Rockefeller, Jr., Sena
tor* C;,W. Watson, S. Ennes, General
manatger of the Western Maryland, M.
C. Byers, assistant to president Gray,
George "T. Watson, vice president of
the Monongahela {Valley Traction com
pany, "A." T. Watson. F. R. Lyon, C. H.
Tarletqn, R.:tW. Gumbel, secretary of
Mrs. Rockefeller, F. E. Lober, secre
tary to Wheelwright, G. S. Marsden,
secretary of Gray.i* x -
.President Gray's secretary G. B.
Marsden arrived in Fairmont this
morning on the special train, which
Is' composed of the private cars of
President Gray and,. Senator Watson,
and made arrangements for the enter
??lament of the vi?ltor?.
American Forces in Mexico are
ed for Every Possible Eventuality,
Washington Say3
If War Breaks Out Members of State Guards Are likely,
to Be Called For Service Under the
Hay-Chamberlain Act.
(By I?nnrlnti n Press) ? s ~?
WASHINGTON, June 17.?General Fun*ton advised the War de_
ment today that he was informed by General Bell at El Paso that Gen
eral Porshlng had been warned by General Trevino the Carranza comman* i
der at Chihuahua, that any movement of tlio American expedition
south, west or east would bo a signal for an attack by the Mexican forces.
No word has come bo far from General Pershing himself but even 1*
fore the arrival of General Funston's message department officials. HI
Inclined to credit newspaper dispatches telling of the Trevino warning;.,
Preparations have been made for any eventuality ar\i General Pershing Is.
ready to deal with any force that mr.y be sent against him. It is probswe, f
however, he will hold to his present 1 ine and make no move to precipitate
hostilities.
STATE GUARDS MAY BE CALLED.
WASHINGTON, Juno 17.?Practically all available regulars of the tTflt^
od StateB army including many coast artlllory men already are on the bof
der or in Mexico and the National Guard of Texas, Arizona and New ifteM
Ico are in service for patrol duty. T he guardsmen of other sta'teSBwIfrS
notified somo weeks ago to be prepared to respond if it should becdmeSf"
cssary to call them out.
It was learned today that consld orablo correspondence has -beoi
changed between the department and the Governors and adjutant genel
of various states relative to the new status given the guardsmen undtfr th's
Hay-Chamberlain army organization bill which becomes effective JulwD
TheBO messagea aro presumed to ha^e caused recurrent reports that the el
tire force of the National Guard was being prepared for active servici
ISTON STUDYS
Mil
His Forces Ready to Strike
If Occasion Should Re
quire It.
(By Associated Press)
SAN ANTONIO, Tex.. Juno 17.?
General Punston and staff gave care
ful attention today to tho activities
of outlaw bands along tho Mexican
border but far greater interest was dis
played in the attitude being assumed
by the troops of the de facto govern
ment General Ricaut's warning that
the crossing of the international boun
dary, troops for any cause, would be
regarded as an overt act and would
be the cause for an attack by the do
facto government troops did not dis
turb General Funston. The search
for bandits it was declared will con
tinue. Whenever a "hot trail" is found
leading into Mexico the Americans
will not hesitate to follow it. The of
ficers in charge of troops on tho bor
der have authority to cross into Mexi
co without-waiting for instructions.
General Funston's army of almost
50,000, has been so disposed along the
Mexican border that swift punitive
action could be taken if invitod by any
overt act of a Carranza army.
General Trevlno's threat to attack
General Pershing if the American
troops move east or west or south was
regarded by army officers here as lit
tle less than a. declaration of hostili
ties by the Mexicans No fear 1b felt
however, that General Pershing will
not be able to take care of himself.
Mexicans Stirred
By a VagueritliBfflS.
(By Associated Prosa) , *? E9
Larodo, Tex., Juno 17.?-There Is an
undercurrent of unrest accorftinMrall
reliable reports here among the Mexi
can civilians and soldiers In;the
tory between Monterey and Nuevo [
Laredo.
It has become openly known tat' |
General Carranza has given orders 1
that if American soldiers enter those ^ j
sections of Mexican territory"--notrwH
ready occupied by Mexican troopn It
would bo considered an act of wtr- j
and tho Mexicans have orders\to ftTT
battle. SgjMH
~^
State Department^1
Withdraws Con
(By Asm>ctated Press) Bn
LAREDO, June 17;?PhiliptC? Han
na, United States consul general at
Montery, and one of the rematnto0|
American consuls in Mexico, accom
panied by half a dozen other Ameri
cans, arrived today. He "irac retic
ent as tho object of his visit??* -
The arrival at Laredo today of PbUlp.
Hanna developod the fact that the'
State department ordered both%hlfaCt||
and J. H. Sillman, consul at Saltillo,
to the American Bide of ttie'rirer. The' |
withdrawal of these two consular of{ i
fleers will leave tho American gov-"
ernmcnt with no consular represma^
tlvo at interior points in Mexico* ex- i
cept an agent at Mexico City.4 !
ENDEAVOR CHOIR REHEAR8AL
The Christian Endeavor chorns I
choir will meet on Tuesday-night at ;
7:30 at Grace Lutheran chtutfrffor re- |
heareal under the dlrectionsof. C. H?
Bloom. A large attendance of mem
hers Is urged as music for the*conton
tion will be rehearsed.
Hundred Thousand Bonus |
Ballot Offer Ends Tonight
At the stroke ot nine tonight one
of the best of the opportunities to se
cure bonuB votqp In the WOBt Vir
ginian Seven Thousand club, will have
passed into history- After that hour
there will be no more of the bonus
ballots for one hundred thousand ex
tra votes issued to anyone, with the
single exception of those who live in
District No. "2." In order that they
may have equal privileges with the
club members in the other district,
they wtll be allowed to mall in the!;
subscriptions after the closing hour
just so they reach this office by noon
on Monday.
It you are an active member of the
club, and live in District No. 2, this
will enable you to work right up un
til the closing hour before sending
in your subscriptions.
Every active member of the elub
will receive a special award?either
a splendid prise or a liberal cash
check. It you art one ot those whose
ambition will sot allow them to be
satisfied with Anything less than a
big prise, you must not overlook this
opportunity to secure hundrM
thousands of extra votes. One c
seclai ballots may make you the
ner of the Overland Touring car
i. ?-??iSj
Not Too Late To Enter
The list Is still open to new nomi
nees in the club. In many territories
there are just as many votes to be
had as there were at the start of the
campaign. Many towns and many
neighborhoods In the rural districts
have barely been scratched, and a lit
tle diligent effort can be made to
yield many subscriptions in these
places. With your subscriptions yon
will receive both votes and commis
sion. Or course If you should win a
prise you will not receive the commis
sion, hut the prises are of great value
in themselves, and even the least of
them is well worth working for. The
nomination blank appears elsewhere
In this Issue. Cut It out and mall tt
In today.
