AIR
STE. OENEVfEVB, MrRSOUHL SATURDAY. J LINE 17. 10H.
NUMBER 8.
volume XTiV.
REPUBLICANS NOMINATE HUGHES;
PROGRESSIVES TAKE ROOSEVELT
Supreme Court Justice Chosen on Third Ballot Fourth Day of Con
vention and Resigns Bench The Colonel Named by Accla
mation at Same Time Harmony Efforts Are Fruitless
Despite Eagerness to Patch Differences.
Chicago. United States Supremo
Court Justico Charles Evans Hughes
was nominated for president on tho
third hallot by tho Republican conven
tion. Charles Warren Fairbanks pt
Indiana was nominated for vlco presi
dent. Tho Hughes voto was 952, and it
required only 494 to nominate. Tho
roll call was ended at 12: 39 p. m., Sat
urday, and it showed only scattering
opposition, lloosovelt had 18 votes;
Lodgo had 7, DuPont 5, Weeks 3, La
Toilette 3.
Justico Hughes was told of his nomi
nation by newspaper men while he sat
nt luncheon with his wlto and two
daughters at their homo In Washing
ton. Ho received the news without ev
ident emotion, saying that he would
later make a formal statement.
As soon as tho Hughes victory was
known to tho largo audienco at tho
Coliseum tho band started playing
"My Country 'TIs of Thee," and tho
audience roso and cheered. Some of
tho delegates started a parade of stato
banners, but as a parade it wasn't a
thrilling sight. Most of the people
stood quietly on their chairs, after tho
first applauso, and watched tho show.
Roosevelt and Parker.
Colonel Roosevelt was unanimously
nominated for tho presidency by tho
Progressives In convention at tho audi
torium. John M. Parker of Louisiana
was nominated for the vlco presidency.
Thero wa3 real excitement at tho Pro
gressive meeting. The delegate ac
tion In naming the colonel brought out
cheering and other evidence of en
thusiasm that shook tho building.
Tho Itcosevelt nomination carao Just
four minutes earlier than that of
Hughes. What promised to bo a rec
ord demonstration for tho ex-president
was curbed with difficulty by Chair
man Raymond Robins, and tho conven
tlon proceeded to finish Us work.
As soon 03 tho Republican conven-
tlon opened at 11 a. m Saturday, the
Tucmbers of tho committee which had
conferred with a Progressive party
committee, regarding a candidate to
agroo on, announced through Senator
Tteed Smoot that tho Republicans had
-decided on Hughes as tho man. Tho
.reply of tho Progressives regarding
the Hughes suggestion was that they
would submit it to their convention.
Shortly afterward camo a communi
cation from Colonel Roosevelt at Oys
ter Ray suggesting Senator Henry Ca
bot Lodge of Massachusetts as second
choice to himself In tho Progressive
convention, Mr. Smoot reported. Tho
Progressives tabled Colonel Roose
Tolt'o suggestion which meant they
would consider nono but the ex-president.
Tho Conferenco Report.
"Tho support of Justico Hughes in
Iho Republican convention," said the
conferenco report by tho Republican
members of tho commltteo, "respects
spontaneous interest and belief In his
candidacy, which havo shown them
selves In widely scattered states and
among all classes and groups of vot
ers. These havo shown themselves
without any formal organization in
his bohalf and nro ono ground for be
lieving that tho candldadcy would bo
acceptable to all groups of Repub
licans and would reunite them.
"His silence as to recent issues is
iho necessary result," tho report con
tinued, "of his Judicial position. His
earlier speeches and declarations,
however, glvo ground for the assur
ance that ho Is in accord with tho
platform that has been adopted by
tho Republican and Progressive con
ventions."
After that. It was all done but the
shouting. Ono after another favor
ite son delegations were released in
rapid sequence to Hughes nnd tho con
vention machinery went smoothly
about Its business.
Progressives In Gloom.
At tho Progressive gathering there
was gloom when Colonel Roosevelt's
communication from Oyster Hay was
read. Tho men and women who had
come from all parta of tho country,
waving (lags and shouting, In tho ex
pectation' of going through unother
campaign under tho leadership of
their idol wcro tromendously disap
pointed when he asked them in his
letter to unite the Republicans on the
candidacy of Senator Lodge.
The "pep" seemed to fado out of
tho gathering. Delegates dropped
back In thlr scats stunned and then
came a few expressions of disgust.
Demands of approval wore made for
tbq course which Georgo W, Perkins
and other leaders havo followed in
.guiding the destlntos of the Progres
siva cruise so far as this. '
At 3 o'clock p. m. Justico Hughes
sent to tho Republicans formal ac
ceptance of the nomination nnd gave
notification of his immediate resigna
tion from tho supreme bench.
By WILLIAM JENNINGS BRYAN,
(Ciwrlclit, 1010, lij- V. j. Ilrjiiu.)
It is nil over now. Tho dust has
settled In tho Coliseum. The hotels
havo undergone a thorough cleaning
and scrubblug. Such street decora
tions as survived the long windy rain
storm which wet tho first threo days
of tho convention have como down.
Delegates and professional politicians
got out of tho city as rapidly as pos
sible. And Chicago prepared to catch
up on Its sleep and go back to homo
cooking.
This placo has closed its eyes on a
scono of mad politics. Vet there was
a noticeable lack of enthusiasm as
compared v.ith tho Republican con-1
vention of four years ago. The claims
of candidates wero not presonted as
aggressively as wcro tho claims of
President Taft and ex-Prestdcnt Roose
velt, tho rival candidates In 1912. Tho
tono Is different.
At tho last convention each side
was asserting its claims to tho control
of the party machinery; each side was
insisting that It was voicing tho sen
timent of the party. It was a conflict
ono of tho most memorable In our ,
political 'history between men who
felt that the llfo of their party de
pended on the success of their efforts. j
Each Side Afraid.
Each sldo was afraid that tho other
sldo would kill tho organization, the
stand-patters by refusing to meet tho
needs of tho hour, tho Progressives by
a surrender of what Mr. Taft's friends ,
called Republican conservatism. j
This time the distinctions of four ,
years ago disappeared, and thero
seemed to bo no material dltferenco
between the programs of the two sides
so far ns they relate to Issues or plat
form phraseology.
Tho' password this timo was "Hun
gry," and it opened any caucus door.
Tho politicians aro hungry for tho of
fices from which they wero separated
by tho Democracy's return to power.
They aro reinforced by the candidates
for tho United States Benato and con
gress and for stato and local offices.
Harmony Demand of Candidates.
Thcso aspirants realized at the con
vention that in a presidential year
much depends upon whether tho tido
is with the party or against it.
The special interests also are hun
gry. For tho first time In many years
they have found the atmosphere at
Washington chilly and uninviting.
"Tho old homo Isn't what It used to
be." The lobbyists who visit Wash
ington now aro as watchful as wild
ducks toward tho end of tho shooting
season. Tho special Interests nro not
willing to take any chances; tho can
dldate who desires their support will
havo to show them that he Is avail
able. These two elements, the hun
gry politicians and tho representatives
of the hungry, favor-seeking corpora
tions, sifted out tho claims of candi
dates shrewdly and announced their
choico eats.
There was a third factor which en
tors Into the calculations here name-
ly.the fact that tho Progressives were
hungry also. They wero responsible
for the overthrow of tho party s noml
nee four years ago, and they did not
want to assume responsibility for such
a Democratic victory this year.
The Hughes Boom.
There wero some Progressives who
steadily believed that Colonel Roose
velt was the strongest man who could
bo nominated, In splto of tho fact that
ho had eliminated every outsldo cle
ment to which the party could appeal,
as well as a large number within the
party.
Early In tho convention the drift
went toward Hughes. His frlouds
said ho would have more votes on tho
first ballot than all of tho favorite
sons combined. This claim, of course,
was not conceded by tho other candi
dates, but the number of tho delegates
pledged to him seemed to grow in
splto of tho fact that ho waa soon re
ceiving tho attacks which aro gener
ally directed against a growing candi
date. Senator La Folletto was the
choico of radical reformers, but thero
were very few of them in tho conven
tion. At tho opening Senator Cummins
had a following among his neigh
bors. Senator Uurton had a consid
erable personal following. Former
Vlco President Fairbanks had an
earnest support, and Seuator Woks'
workors were In ovldcnce.
Senator Harding's Speech.
Senator Harding's speech a3 tem
porary chairman was all that condi
tions and circumstances would permit
Tho great Webster said:
Eloquence
oxlsts In tho man. In tho BUbJect and
In tho occasion." Eloquenco had only
ono-third of a chance. It had
tho man, Senator Harding Is an
oratpn Tho commltteo could not havo
HOlecfpd a bettor man to open such a
convention. Ho Is both pleasing and
imposing In appearance. He has an
excellent voice and a splendid do
llvory, and ho represented In his views
and hopes that element of the party
which was dominant in tho conven
tion. His speech possessed strongth
and humor and his thoughts wcro
expressed In phrases that will he re
peated by thoso who lack his skill In
rhetoric.
rho speech' satisfied tho audience,
for it was Just such on nudlenco as
would llko that sort of a speech. Ho
was greeted with enthusiasm on his
appearance, his principal points were
applauded enthusiastically and his
conclusion brpught forth another burst of tho party, nnd felt confident that
of enthusiasm. Do may feel, that ho - this reunion could be effected with
acquitted himself with credit and tho out commending any of the reforms
convention found gratification in that .Accomplished by tho Democratic partly
fact that it got wnat it wauteu in tuo
way of a speech,
Rut thn subject and the occasion
wora lacking. Tho subject was a
restoration of tho Republican party
to power and thero Is no Inspira
tion in such a subject to bring forth
an epoch-making speech. Tho Repub
lican party was put out of power be
cause It had been guilty of high crimes
and misdemeanors. It had converted
popular government Into a predatory
oligarchy; It had betrayed the people
and given them over to spoliation at
tho hands of the special Interests. Fa
vor seeking corporations had been per
mitted to tako control of tho instru
mentalities of government and employ
them for private enrichment.
Tho injustice finally becamo so
rank and tho swollen fortunes so
conspicuous that a largo portion of
tho Republican party revolted.
More than halt of tho Republicans
had tho Independence to leaVo tho or
ganization and, by boltlifg, they ex
pressed their determination to rid tho
party of corporato domination, even
it it wcro necessary to pass through
a national defeat In order to mako the
party frco.
As a result of tho division In the
Republican ranks tho Democratic
party camo Into power, and proceeded
to put Into law a reform program
without parallel In tho history of tho
country. In nddition to facing do
mestic problems of great Importance;
In addition to having to deal with
abuses that had grown in size until
a remedy was more or less Impos
sible without raoro or less of Indus
trial disturbance In addition to theso
homo embarrassments, tho Democrat
ic administration inherited from the
Republican administration a Mexi
can situation, and was soon after
wards confronted with a world war
without a parallel in history.
Harding's Task Impossible.
Senator Harding's subject was the
attitude of tho Republican party to
ward tho administration that had res-
cued tho nation from Republican mis
rule and kept tho country at peace
amid distracting misrule on nil sides.
How could a partisan speaker satisfy
a partisan convention without offend
ing a universal senso of Justico? Tho
task was an Impossible one.
The delegates had gathered to plan
for tho country's return to bondage
to the Interests, and Seuator Harding
would havo disappointed the delegates
If ho had conceded to the Democratic
administration any merit whatever.
Ho did not disappoint them. On the
contrary, ho lived up to tho highest
requirements of partisanship and ex
tolled tho Republican record as flaw
less nnd pictured tho Democratic rec.
ord as a menace to prosperity &
home and peaco abroad.
I His declarations on tho subject of
. preparedness wero sufficiently omphat
Ic to nrauso all the fears that havo
been assiduously cultivated by tho
I manufacturers of munitions, and yet
' wcro not dellnlto enough to inform
1110 taxpayers or mo uuruena wnicn
lle Jingoes have In store for them,
! Common Ground on Tariff,
1 It was not, however, until ho
reached tho tariff question that ho'
loft out all tho sails. Ho is a believer
In protection for protection's sako,
and ho knows that protection Is the
issue on Which tho standpat Repub
licans and tho Progressives wcro most
nearly In agreement. Tl.ey rival each
other in devotion to tho theory that a
tax Is a blessing when collected
through tho customhouse.
It the subject was a chilling om'
for Impassioned eloquenco, tho occa
sion was no raoro oncouraglng. Tho
delegates wcro not hero to outline any
I constructive work: thov had nlanned
' nothing from the experience through
which thoy had passed.
They based their hopes of success
upon a reunion ot the two elements
i or pledging the Republican party
I any remedial legislation.
to
nmwafi&EmM v yaw m
"Let us forget our differences," was
the Republican slocan. But will tho
public forget tho riot of privilege?
This Is tho program as outlined, In
convention, If It Is stripped of Its'
drapery and plainly stated. Tho chli
issuo beforo tho country will bo wheth
er tho reforms which havo boon se
cured by twenty years' agitation aro
to be lost by tho restoration to au
thority of thoso who by tho misuse
of power aroused tho voters to re
volt. No wonder thoso who are In
terested in tho success of this pro
gram seek to divert attention from
economic Issues to so-called preparedness.
The two conventions In session in
v.uiLubu uo
as anyono discovered who attended
,-.1.1 .1., .llPTAnMt l.rwllna
them. The delegates to both conven
tions called themselves RqpubUcans;
they spoko In the same spirit of rev
erence of tho irtstory and traditions
of tho party.nnd they now look for
ward with equal hopo and faith to the
Republican party of tho future, but
they wero as different In the spirit
which animated them as If tho dele
gates lived In different worlds and had
nothing In tho past or future to link
them together.
Tho regular Republican convention
was a cut and dried affair. Everything
moved llko clockwork, and a stately
dignity prevailed except when tho con
vention was enlivened by a joke. Then
tho delegates laughed just enough to
show that they wore human, and then
fell back Into the manner of men in a
treadmill.
Moose Convention Spontaneous.
Tho Progressive convention was
neither cut nor dried; it was a spon
taneous body and most of tho dele
gates felt like Henry Allen of Wich
ita expressed himself. Ho said ho felt
like a man In a powder mill with
matches in ills pocket. If any hot
heads wero sent to tho regular Re
publican convention, all tho warmth
has been refrigerated out ot them.
But there was heat enough and to
spare at tho Auditorium. There wasn't
ico enough In Chicago to keep their
temperature normal.
At the Republican convention the
commltteo on credentials reported on
tho contests, and the report was
adopted without discussion. How dif
ferent from four years agol
Tho committee then gave temporary
seats to a Taft majority, and that tem
porary majority proceeded to make
itself a permanent majority, and then
it completed tho work for which It
came Into tho political world.
This year thero were few contests,
and It did not matter which way they
wero decided. The real contostlug
delegations are sovoral blocks away,
whero with a friendly credentials com
mltteo to pass upon their claims all
were seated.
But what an lll-fatod omen to havo
the Republican party's claims to tho
nation's confldonco presented by ox
Senator Depew and ex-Speaker Can
non I If tho convention had deliber
ated four years, it could not havo
chosen two men more responsible for
tho revolt of 1912, or more irritating
to the progressive element.
Depew Against Reforms.
Mr. Depow was ono of tho most con
spicuous representatives of tho preda
tory group which finally becamo so re
pulsive to tho Republican party that
4,000,000 Republicans preferred defeat
rather than submit longer to Its dicta
torshtp,
What a campaign tho Republicans
raado when they' put him up to repre
sent stand-pat Republicanism, "Laugh
and forget our sins and your sorrows
might wall havo been the text of this
distinguished humorist.
And Uncle Jool In splto of his
lovable personal qualities he succoed
dd In making Republicanism synony
mous with uannonism, and this con
trlbuted as much as any othor ono
thing to tho revolt which cost the
Republican party more than half o
Its votes In 1912. Thero was only ono
thing that they could have dono which
would have aggravated the radicals
more than tho promlnenco given to the
Messrs. Depew and Cannon, viz., to
havo made them mombors of tho con
torunco commltteo to confer with tho
Progressives on plans for tho reunit
ing of tho two parties.
Senator Borah followed Depow and
Cannon, nnd presented what might
bo called a violent contrast. Ho was
clear, forclblo and earnest. He spoke
as ono conscious of tho difference be
tween Republicanism as It was in the
beginning and Republicanism in Its
fallen stato.
Ho manifested an Interest in hav
ing tho party respond to the ndvanced
thought of today, but he neutral
ized tho effect of. his effort by
i,a attack upon thoadm!n!strat!on's
.,'
Mexican policy.
Tho Amorlcan peoplo dp not favor
Intervention In Mexico.
Radical Crowd Fights.
The contest in tho Progressive con
vention over tho resolution inviting
tho Republican convention to appoint
a conferenco commltteo was tho first
real debate of tho conventions.
Ex-Secretary Garfield introduced the
resolution and supported It In an ar
gument which appealed to the Judg
ment ot the majority ot the delegates.
Ho roferrcd to tho resolution adopted
by tho Progressive national commlt
teo last January pledging tho conven
tion to do all In Its power to bring
about harmonious co-operation be
tween tho two wings ot tho party
Tho resolution was at onco com
bated by the moro radical element
In the convention led by ox-Congressman
Murdock of Kansas and Congress
man MacDonald of Michigan. Mur
dock warned them that they could
expect nothing from tho Republican
convention, and favored proceeding
with tho nomination of Roosevelt
Congressman McDonald went even
further than Murdock and advised tho
Progressive convention to tell tho Re
publican convention to depart thenco
and make Its abode In tho fiery realm
where even a drop of water cannot
bo had to cool a parched tonguo.
Tho spcechos of Murdock and Mc
Donald woro cheered, and thero wero
even suggestions of a stampede, but
Plnchot, Bonaparte and Foulke sup
ported Garfield, and their counsel pre
vailed. When tho Yoto was taken, tho
yeas overwhelmed tho opposition. But
tho fight Indicated the spirit of tho
convention and tho independence of
tho delegates.
Business Men's Meeting
A business men's meeting was held
In tho Garrlck theater at which sev
eral Roosovelt speeches wcro made to
an enthusiastic audience. Alexander
II. Revoll presided and pictured Mr.
Roosovelt as the only American who
gives expression to the "true American
spirit." Kellogg Fairbanks praised
Colonel Roosevelt as the only man who
could put tho country In a stato ot
preparedness for war.
Congressman Gardner added his in
dorsement of Roosevelt as the only
candidate who knew what to do and
how to do It. Mr. Gardner painted a
dismal picture of the future unless the
country elected the former president
The main features of the picture wero
'20,000,000 soldiers In Europo de
mobilized," " Industries prostrated"
and "countries bankrupted."
To his Imagination, this country ot
ters the only prize in sight for these
fatigued troops, representing govern
ments without credit and nations with
out Industries, upon which to build
credits. Mr. Gardner expected this
country to bo Invaded unless Mr.
Roosevelt was put In charge ot tho gov
ernment and tho government put In
a state ot preparedness.
Ono interesting feature ot the meet
ing was that thoy all spoko of PresI
dent Wilson's great political strength,
Woman's Party Organized.
A new party early entered the arena
hero. A woman's party was organ
ized, but It soon showed symptoms of
mannlshness. Its announced purpose
was to compel the other parties to
tako a position In favor of equal suf
frage. But It must not be supposed
that It represented a unanimous senti
ment among the woman advocates of
suffrage.
Tho women proved their claim to
political consideration by manifesting
a spirit ot independence qulto equal
to that exhibited by men. Doctor Anna
Howard Shaw, former president of tho
National American Woman Suffrage
association, dissents entirely from
those who desiro to organlzo tho wom
en Into an Independent party.
"It Is foolish for tho woman's party
to como hero and say to the men that
wo women havo great political power,
that wo hold tho balance of powor,
etc.," sho said. "It isn't true. What
we must do is to co operate with men,
not fight them In politics."
Comparison of Meetings.
In slzo tho standpat Republican
convention had much the advantage.
The Coliseum, in which tho sessions
were held, seats some twelve thou
sand, whllo tho Auditorium, In which
tho Progressives met, could hardly ac
commodate four thousand.
In enthusiasm tho Progressives had
tho advantage, probably because they
came hero with their candldato picked,
nnd wcro all for him, while the regu
lar Republican convention had bo many
favorite sons under consideration that
tho delegates wero not at liberty to
join In applauding any one aspirant.
Temporary Chairman Harding did
not mention any candldato, while Tem
porary Chairman Robins set the Pro
gressive convention nflro by his eulogy
of Colonel Roosovelt. Whllo Senator
Harding's chief points wero greeted
with applause, it was not tho kind of
applauso that reverberates.
Platform Much the Same.
Roosevelt's namo, on tho contrary,
wua tho signal for cheering, shouting.
singing and parading that lasted n)Or
than an hour and a half.
It Is somo monthi bIuco the Repub
lican leaders conceived tho Idea of
tying tho protective system to the
rmy and navy. It will bo reniombored
that Congressman Mann Included In
dustrial preparedness In the quallBod
Indorsement which ho gave the admin
istration's program, Protection waa
looking for a crutch, and it was quick
to avail Itself of tho support offered
by tho preparedness propagando.
It was very easy for a high-tariff ad-
vocato to support a policy requiring
larger appropriations because largor
appropriations compel larger lt '
les. Regulars and Progressives aUko
recommend a tariff as a source from
which to draw increased revenues.
Thoy defend taxes upon consumption
on tho ground that tligv aro felt less
than by direct taxesrit is the old
defense, viz.: that by means of it moro
feathers can bo obtained from tho
goose without squawking.
The Preparedness Idea.
Thoso who attempt to measure the
sentiment In favor of blggor appropri
ations for tho army and navy by pav
Charles Warren Fairbanks.
rades must not overlook tho fact that
those who aro pecuniarily Interested
in tho return to a high tariff fall easy
victims to any scares which give an
excuse for the collection ot more reve
nue.
"Don't rock the boat," is tho advice
which tho politicians spread among
the delegates as soon as they came in,
and the delegates heeded the advice.
They all felt that 1916 was to see a
titanic struggle between tho two great
parties. All recognize that the resto
ration of tho Republican party to
power Is not an easy task.
A great deal of bitter language has
boen employed In tho past by progres
sives against standpatters, and by
standpatters against progressives, and
a great deal'of feeling was stirred up.
At the convention they worked over
time trying to forgot
The Situation Queer.
Yos, it was a queer situation thoso
two conventions strikingly unlike in
personnel and In tho conduct ot busi
ness and yet united In platform utter
ances. At tho regular Republican conven
tion ex-Senator Depew and "Uncle
Joe" Cannon wero called upon to re
galo the audience with eulogies ot tho
Republican party. What unwisdom to
thus provoke the Progressives by ex
hibiting as specimens of tho stand-pat
Republicanism of today two men who
had so much to do with bringing upon
tho Republican party the odium that
Btlrred a majority of the members to
revolt! One Is reminded of the wom
an whoso husband drank himself to
death. After she had selected a mod
est casket for tho remains, the under
taker asked what she wanted In the
way ot "trlmmins." "Trlmmina!" sho
exclaimed. "Don't mention trimmlns;
that's what Jlmralo died ot."
Had Real Debate.
Tho discussion In the Progressive
convention over the resolution Invit
ing tho Republicans to appoint a com
mltteo to confer with a similar Pro
gressive commltteo with a view to
reaching a fusion on the ticket was. a
real debate. Tho delegates who par
ticipated were in dead earnest and tho
languago which somo ot them used
and It was liberally applauded be
trayed a deep current of distrust with
which a considerable portion ot the
convention vlowed any proposition
looking toward harmonizing.
But the conservative eloment of the
convention won out by a largo major-1
ttv nml llm r-nnfnrfinrn nbrrl fnr wnn !
wanted bv tho RoDUbllcan convention
without discussion. I
To Illustrate tho unity which they
reached early in tho mutter ot plat
forms attention is Invited on fivo sub
jects.' First, they agreed in extravagance
of languago employed In criticizing tho
Democratic administration, and thoy
agreed also In tho care with which
they abstained from any definite state
ment of tho pcllcy which thoy Intended
to pursue If Intrusted with power,
Thoy united In deploring the calami-
ties brought upon tho country by what
thoy described as tho president's fall-
ure to defend American rights, and yet
both conspicuously fall to point out
whorctn they would havo a president
act different!.
DEMOCRATIC
MEET IH STILUS
NATIONAL CONVENTION CALLED
TO ORDER BY CHAIRMAN
McCOMBS.
SENATOR JAMES IN CONTROL
J ".'dent of Successful Issue 'In En.
counter With G. O. P. This Fall
Martin Glynn Delivers
Keyn.We'spo-il" V
St. Louis, Mo., Juno 14. The Demo
cratic cohorts from over tho United
States and possessions beyond the
seas wero called to order this morn
ing by National Chairman William
V McOombs, and when quiet was
finally secured nominations wero de
clared in order to for the selection of
a temporary chairman.
Senator Ollle James ot Kentucky
had been selected by t,he commltteo
to perform this task, and when he
assumed the gavel tho enthusiasm of
the delegates knew no bound.
When quiet prevailed delegations.
wero requested to send In the names
of the properly accredited delegates
that a commltto on credentials might
bo appointed and tho work of tho
convention expedited thereby.
Senator James was tho right man
In tho right place, nnd nipped many
an incipient effort by budding orators
to gain tho ear of the body.
While the names wero being can
vassed the chnlrman introduced ex
Governor Martin Glynn ot New York,
who made a ringing address to tho
delegates and aroused the utmost ap
plause. Condemns Republicans.
In his address Governor Glynn con
demned the Republicans for vacillat
ing indecision, and said they had no
reason to ask any change In tho pres
ent administration, except that they
wanted the offices. Lacking men and
issues thero could bo no doubt of a
Republican defeat this fall.
Ono of the. features ot tho day was
the "walkless parade" of the suffra
gists. Thousands of ladles, dressed
In the chosen colors of yellow and
white, lined tho walks from the lead
ing hotels to the Coliseum, where)
the convention was held, and not by
persuasion nor by coaxing, but by tho
mere force of numbers, urged the del
egates silently to take up tie ques
tion of woman suffrage. Never be
fore has such a demonstration been
witnessed as the women of the United
States put on exhibition at St. Louis.
Silent, but cheerful; solemn, but with
due regard for each delegate's opinion
It was impossible to reach the gath
ering place without passing apparent
ly thousands ot these thoughtful and
serious faces. Many delegates were
much Impressed with the business
like appearanco of these women, and
it augurs well for their desires.
Therp seems to be no doubt in tho
minds of nny of tho delegates as to
the nomination of Wilson and Mar
shall Some few under Instructions will
vote their first vice-presidential ballot
for another than Indiana's famous
Democrat, but all are assured that
the two present Incumbents will bo
nominated and triumphantly elected
next November.
Beautiful Decorations.
It has been many years since St
Louis hns had such a large crowd of
strangers to entertain, and every ono
seems to be doing his best to extend
tho hospitillty of Uio city. lavish
displays of bunting and decorations,
patriotic nnd beautiful, are seen on
every sldo. Nothing has been left
undone to provldo for tho comfort
nnd pleasure of tho visitors, nnd on
their returns to their respective sta
tions the memory of the convention
will bo a pleasant thing to cherish
nil through life.
National Chairman MeCombs h,st
made the announcements as to what
chaplains shall officiate at tho various
sessions of tho convention. Thoy
ore:
Dr. Jamos W. Leo of the Methodist
EplPcopnl church, south.
Archbishop John J. Glennon
W O. Hardest)', chaplain of Uio Miu
itourl senate.
Rabbi Harrison ot Temple Israel.
Rev. Dr. Arthur L. Qdell of tho
Presbyterian church.
These clergymen will officiate as
chaplain In the order In which their
- ' names appear.
Following the Flag.
A woman may bo fickle,
Inconsistent, too, we find,
Slay sometimrn change her husband
(And often change her mind;
' nut ln b Ihlng she's ns loyal
As a poldler to his flat;
She cling3 with moist perslstanco
To her chamois powder rag.
Good Excuse. (
Church: He writes all his loiters
on a typewriter.
Gotham: That's bo ho'll havo some
thing Jo blamo for tbo bad spelling.
8oelal Amenities.
Proud Mother This Is n toy teAnet
1 my llttlo fjlr) bas Cur afternoon parties.
Sho likes to serve mnke-belloro tea,
nnd mnke-belloro sandwiches. H'p s
harmless fancy,
( Gtiest; Perfectly! I've been toi
erown-up affairs whero they did Ul
I '
v
