TODAY'S PRICES
M. rloan bani. not- ctate billFi 13s&i
Mexican p"" 4" Mx(an go.d 49 -
Nrional1? bill 174 Carranza cy
" Id !4 'Bf 7 Bar i. r (Handv
& Harmon quotation K3 Copper J2S
(drains lower Livestock easy Stocks
HOME EDITION
WEATHER FORECAST.
T3 Fan and went Texas, fair: 3fw
Mexico, generally fair: Arizona, fair.
LATEST NEWS BY ASSOCIATED PRESS.
SINGLE COPT FIVE CENTS.
EL PASO. TEXAS. SATURDAY EVENING. JUNE 17. I9!b
' M hl.l.
qcexts a month. 36 PAGES. FOUR SECTIONS. TODAY
ERSHING'S ORDERS ARE NOT CHANGED
0
i
t
'A
t. . . . &
Q nnc
UUUOL
i
BRITISH DEFEATED ON E
SENDS MIT
TO PERSHING
Gen: Funston Watches The
Mexican Army Move
ments Closely.
HAS 50,000MEN
NOW AVAILABLE
Precautions Taen By Gen.
Bell Followed By Other
American Commanders.
Trevino Tells the American Big Battery of Trucks Ex-
27 MOTORS FOB I
FORT. BLISS
In MexicoTfi Mmr
UPHRATES iniiv ir
Ills 111 1 II
RETREAT AFTER his latest picture
SIX UBS OF
s
; AV ANTONIO, Texas. Jane 17.
American troopa crossed the
border below Brownsville this
afternoon, and immedlatelr were
enraged In fighting;, according to
a report from Gen. Parker to Gen.
Fnnston.
The brief report did not state
whether the forces opposed to the
Americans were bandits or Mexi
can troops.
SOT ANTONIO. Tex, June 17, Gen.
J. J. Pershing has tpid Gen.
Jacinto Trevino. in reply to tho
message warning JUn-tH -aay move
ct the American tep, except toward
Commander He Will At
tack If TJ. S. Troops Move.
By ASSOCIATED PIICSS.
Chihuahua City. Mejc, June 17. Gen.
Jacinto Trevino. commanding the Car
rancista army of the north, has advised
Gen. J. J. Pershing. American expedi
tionary commander, that any movement
or American troops from their present
lines to the south, east or west would
pected Next Week; Gen.
.Bell Wants Airplanes.
Twenty-seven new, three-ton tracks
are expected to arrlre here for the
use- of the border patrol district and
will be sent to Fort Bliss and for use
along the border. They are expected
next week.
Tbe'trueks will be the newest model
army truck and will be driven by
IN
of Mexican Troops Moving
iii iiai uirecnon.
Laredo,- Texas, June 17. Due. nrob-
... bomer. wzs zizssLZz: j ln ,r ,"f"anie Ts
tile act. that h v...irf ..!.. ---. "- "" im-u
be considered a hostile act and a slg- J army truck drivers Instead of eivll
nal to commence warfare. Gen. Trevino 'ans. Lieut John F. Franklin, of the
acted upon specific instructions from seventh infantry, will be" in charge of
Gen. Carranza. I these trucks. They will be used to
D.nri, ..:j r. .... I move troops quickly along the border.
R.2..S ?"?? f? tT,om Gen" A,fre1 Gen. Bell has also asked for three
Sf, cons"iut'onal commander at I airplanes to be sent to the border at
ilatamoros, said that he had sent troopa I this point to be used In scout work
i?"!? f tbe ban"ts who recently and for dispatch bearing The air
raided American soil near San Ignacio, planes will be set up at Fort Bliss if
lex, and who have recrossed to Mexico, they are sent here, and will be ia
Me added that if American troops charge of army aviators who will b
pushed their pursuit into Mexico. h nt here from the flying school at
would Immediately attack them. San Diego.
II. S. SOLDIERS
CHASE BANDITS
Laredo Hears Large Body j Battle is Fought Near San
Turkish Report Says 180
British Dead Left On
Battlefield.
italiansTtake
THREE POSITIONS
EXPECTED RAID
FAILS TO OCCDR
Drive Auslrians Out Of Im
portant Towns After
Severe Fighting.
CONSTANTINOPLE, Turkey. June
17. (Via London, 5:25 p m.)
British forces attempting to cross
the lower Euphrates river near Korea,
were forced to retreat In disorder, after
a six hour battle, .says the Turk'sh
official statement Issued today. Tt
British left 186 dead on the battlefield.
his authority to v-rt, .a. '"""Z. f ? el -"exican handlto at laHtas. K uw east et-San Benito by American
of the American expedition. .Jsm , ?"i " ""
The text C vCslneseage and I Z?TZ i". -
the reply from Geo. Pershing were
received todaJTby Gen., Fanston and
forwarded to Washington.
Gen Funston and Ms suttl gave care-
Ing to reports to Gen. Mann, command
ing the border patrol here.
. A -well Jnforjned Mexicazterrivhig
herft from tfia lntjilA, . tr. t... --
firms reports that more than SOW Car-
Benito; Raiding Resumed
Near Brownsville.
Brownsville. Tex, Jane 17. Mexican
bandits numbering aboat 39 were at
tacked and scattered last night. 11
R
attention today to the activities of ranza troops have passed Villaldama,"
outlaw bands along the Mexican bor- 1M miles south or teredo, going north-
"i a . s'"-""- interest was dls- j ward. He said the soldiers were spread
-i.i w me aiuiuce oetng assumed
"j the troops of the de facto govern
roert. Gen. Parker, at Brownsville. Texas,
made a brief report of the latest mani-
itstation or outlawry near San Benito,
and Gen. Mann reported Ue continua
tion of the search for bandits that
raided the cavalry camp at En Igna
"o but it was evident at department
ladquarters that greater significance
as attached to the doings of Oarran
xas troops than to those of the bandit
leaders.
Kicant's Warning Disregarded.
Gen. RIcaufs warning that the cross
ing of the international boundary by
anv American troops for any cause
nai ever would be regarded as an
v ert act. and would be the cause for tut
attack by the de facto government
troops, did not disturb Funston or hl
ctaff. The search for bandits will con
t.nue and whenever a. "hot trail" Is
found leading into Mexico the Ameri
c" W"J noi hesitate to follow it. Th.
officers in charge of troops on the bor?
rier have authority to c?oso the bor
tionr wa"ng for special lnstruc-
,.2'i Funston'a army of ahnoet S0.6M
has been so disposed along the Mexi-
Sw h."t.SS mtt Pun,t,ve acUt I
Declaration of Hostilities.
Gen Trevino's threat to attack Gen.
rershing. if the American troopTmov
eist St west or soHth, was regarded
b army officers here as little less
I ISrSsU.?1?? of "Mtllltles by Se
ilexictns. since it may be necessary at
S..time for,.t"e leader of the big
puniUve expediaon to send small de?
"tachtnents In pursuit of ouUaw bands.
Bell's Precaution Followed by Others.
Precautions taken by Gen. Bell at
n t60 la8t Dleht la holding all the
American troops ready for action were
similar to those tak at everr borter
onslderable number of Carrak
nd Gen- Mann. at Laredo. Illo pre
pared to move quickly In case of
eventualities, but at those points less
T?,TPy 5" ,he Jfican MTot the
B'o Grande was displayed.
The garrison at Hagle Pass was
of the 30th Infantry. Three companies
or the coast artillery now on their
way south will go directly to Laredo.
CAVALRY ON HOT TRAIL OF
BANDITS NEAR BROWNSVILLE
Brownsville, Texas. June 17. It was I
rcpurieo to army headquarters here
today that a troop of the Third cav
alry under Lieut A. D. Newmans, had
struck a "hot trail" of Mexican ban
dits near Brownsville. Tlww h.rin
were supposed to have been the same
who attacked United States soldiers
near San Benito last night.
A second squadron of the Third cav
alry, commanded by Maj. Edward An
derson, left at 1:10 oclock today for
a point ten miles up tbe Rio Grande
mer to reinforce Lieut. A. D. New
man. The command Included 2M men.
-ery available rnoun' being used. The
machine gun troop of the Third cav
alry also was ordered out.
out in moderate sized detachments
Traffic across the international
bridge between Laredo and Nuevo La
redo has noticeably diminished. Amer
icans no lonEr -zass the nii,hf i.
Viia t ,.n . 1 .,.- -- 1 a Mexican farmer named Lnasr Lai.
in7T;r i. , T v r I S1'3 nephew, who was with itei at
ing pass to that city during the dar. the time, escape dsjvl gave the alarm.
I The troops engaged came from San
GEN. 0BREG0N DENIES REPORT : SSl.1 IT" S2Hri,.of.2Hf
aar.1faa
Jleports that thyeitiajaHtg -were
killed. In the fight were sntrue, ac
cording to reports received here today.
The Americans, however, beHeve they
wounded several of the band:ts.
Details of the fight received here
say that a detachment of the 2(th In
fantry was fired on from the brush
by 25 or 36 bandits. Tbe soldiers
aroppea to the ground and returned
the fire. After the first few volleys
the Americans rushed the bandits, who
scattered in the brush and escaped.
- The fight followed the kidnaping
j "AHuita uiHjui, uiir BiienHRiD vi
OF GEN. GAVIRA'S EXECUTION ' automobiles from HarlingenT Tex,
Gen. Gabriel Gavira, reported exe
cuted in Mexico Citjsj had not arrived
In the national capital Friday, a mes
sage received by Carranza consul An-
OME, Italy. June 17 (via London.
5 p. m.) Italian troops have car
oled the Austrian positions of I
Malaga, Fossetta and Monte Magarl.
mtweauoe Frwszela valley and Mar- j
ccaioa. according to an official state- '
ment given out at the war department '
today. J j
The Ualiaps tvk 303 prisoners and
captured six gyas and four machine
grans.
Austrian Defeat Russian Force.
Berlin, Gevmar.y. Jtun 17. (By Wire
less to Sayviile. N. TO Aus'tro-Hunga-rlan
troops south of the Dneister river.
In Gallda, defeated a Russian cavalrv
force on Thursday .according to an '
; oincial statement given out by the !
I Austro-Hungarian army headquarters !
under date of June IS.
( Tbe statement also announced that
new oames have been started on the '
whole front in Volhynla,
West of VIsvocsyk, Russian attacks
gainst our positions are in progress.
On the Stokhod and the Styr several
"ny attempts to cross the river
felled. The enemy as usual suffered
heavy losses.
"Italian front: Enemy attacks on I
mc Buuuicru part or JLooerdo plateau
were repulsed. Repeated Italian at
tacks against several of our positions
on the Dolomites likewise failed."
In Rattle With Russians.
Gen. Von Linsencren'a triwiiu inn
engaged the Russians in battle in the
3 EBKBBav"aBBaBaaaaTF"aBTB ii njJHIUl JL ni SBKnTivBnamBBBTBabS a
?J BaTOnTBaBBBBaaBBBaaaV aaflSKRBsaalsGBSSaw. SHaBaPaBBBBBBBfJ M
w S97aaaaaaBBBrr"snTa 4" - BcnrBvsacBTaBB tB
. v. . . .- i im i ii nnisaiu
Washington Shows No D
position To Withdraw
From Below Border
CHAELrEs EVAfiS HUGHES.
Gtf7i. jvcjt sszyicC
dres Garcia from Gen. Alvaro Obergon
The message from the Mexican min
ister of war was received by consul
Garcia after he had telegraphed to
Gen. Obregon that a report was in cir
culation here than Gen. Gavira had
been shot on a charee of trMsnn
The war minister's reply read as fol- I Laredo, Tex, June 17 Eighty
lows: "Tour message received. Deny Mexicans, men, women and children, ar
emphatlcally the news that the Morning rived here late yesterday from Corpus
Times published relative to the execu- Christ!, Tex, bound for points in
lion oi en. uavira. That general has Mexico and traveling on transportation
i to OlmltO. IS miles north of Hrnrtnn
tille. in an effort to cut off the bandits,
who at midnight were headed for the
jno uranoe.
A troon of Mivalrv w unt f,Am
Fort Brown to Fresnos tract. 14 miles I htokhod and Styr sectors, says the
north of Brownsville, where a Mexican i official statement issued by German
late last night was robbed of a team I army headquarters today,
of horses by Mexican bandits. ( The statement adds that parts of
. I the army of Gen. Count vn HAthmA.
BUKDtK mtAlUAWS AKt BK1NG i BmSea ,n atue with the Bus
CPNT IMTn MITYirn AT T ADrnn """" lo ""rtntor prezwloka.
SEIELT IS
GETTING BETTER
not yet arrived at the ranltnl '
The message from Gen. Obregon was
dated June 16.
coupled with the denial of Gen.
furnished by Carranza's consul. Mel-
quiades Garcia, stationed here.
The Mexicans were informed on their
arrival by United States officers and
Obregon that Gen. Gavira had not been I Texas rangers that they could not re
executed Capt Alberto Gavira, son of main in Laredo, and were escorted to
the former commanded- jf the northern ' the international bridge from where
uuiuci uuujis, ibs iert ror Chihuahua
city, where he will meet his father.
Toung Gavira left Saturday morning
from Juarez. Both son and father will
proceed from Chihuahua city to Mexico
city, it is announced.
they were seen to arrive on Mexican
soiL
British Surgeons Sleep
Amid Fierce Jungle Beasts
London. Ens Jun 17. Weird experiences
await the soldier ia the east African on
palsn. Dr. sir G.rrod Thomas has re-
ta'VJ S.J2teT froS J" mr surf-eon now
In the jungle la which the writer sas
i iHL." ",?s?It"f "taHon on the Ger-wJ?er-
W." har mT can,n ' -lear-lng
In the Jungle, and even to an old hand
(Contlnnrd on paze 2. Col. 3.)
Ex-President Plans to Re
turn to His Home at
Oyster Bay.
New York. June 17. Theodore
Roosevelt passed a comfortable night,
coughing a little, but not violently,
and today his voice was stronger and
he hoped to return to Oyeter Bay this
afternoon. The colonel, his physi
cians announced last night, has suf
fered a slight attack of pleurisy. They
considered his condlton satisfactory.
Colonel Roosevelt again this after
noon called on his physician. Dr. DeuT-1
and. after returning to bis home, had
a talk with Raymond Robins, chair
man of the Progressive national coo
J".?; and Rovernor Hiram Johnson,
of California.
HUGHES PLANS
FOR BPAI1
Will Move Pamily to Coun
try Home Before Begin
ning Active Campaign.
Washington, D. C, June 17 Charles
E. Hughes, Republican presidential
candidate, spent moat of today making
preparations for moving his familv to
a summer home before he starts on his I Gn- Houston reported the substance
v- nkvhuiid conTmniuin a
CARRANZA THREAT
FOR HOME PEOPLE
Transports Made Ready To
Rescue Americans From
Mexican Ports.
WASHINGTON. D. O. Juno 17 No
change has, been made In tho
orders under which Geo. J. J.
PeraoiBg Is pursuing Mexican bandits
in Chihuahua and there Is no present
intention of restricting the movements
or the American forces In Mexico be
cause of the threat by the Carranza
government that any move made by
Gen- Pershing's men to the south, east
or west would be followed by an attack
Mexican troops. This was evident
i.ere today.
Prepare To Rescue Americans.
T' prepare for protecting and rts
cu g vmerienno from Mexico should"
tr e be danger to them, steps were
taktn tooa to send transports. to Mex
i ir po-ts where seeded.
" -e am transport Sumner, laid up
at .Newport News. Va wm nni4 -
coir -nission today. Several other trans
ports are being held in readiness to
bring Americans from Mexican port
in case of emergency. -
No Change In V. S. Purpose.
Warning from Mexican commanders
tnat any movement of American troops
except in retirement toward the border
woald. precipitate hostilities, will not
change the purpose of the U. S. govern
ment to keep its expedition tn north
ern Mexico or prevent Gen. Pershtaff
from taking any steps necessary to
insure the safety of his own colomne.
and deal with bandits threatening the
border. No advance farther south Is
contemplated and it is not believed
here the Carranza forces are planning
an Immediate attack upon the Ameri
can forces.
Bell Telia of TTarninc
Jc.!!t.'"L, department today was
SS? adTces trmP Gen. Pershing
regarding the warning said to have
been sent him by Gen. Trevino. hut
ALL TROOPS ORDERED TO CAMP
FRIDAY NIGHT AS PRECAUTION
All soldiers on "shore leave" down
town Friday afternoon and evening
were ordered to report to their com
mands at the fort and In the camps
and were held in readiness for any
calls which might come from the Mexi
can quarter.
At Gen. Bell's headquarters it was
announced that there was nothing defi
nite upon which to base any alarms
or scares but that Gen. Bell. In view
of the reports from Chihuahua and
other places, thought It advisable to
have all of the troops In camp ready
to answer any emergency calL
A report that Mexicans bad raided I
across the line near Anapra. N. Jl 1
started when dtnntv ctii.trfB ... i I
diers were seen searching for the men I r- Stevens certainly Is an authority
wanted in connection with the killing j on Cloudcroft. because, for IS years.
Of V. Blanco at the Crawford ror.,.!. ,.- . .... . . ... '
near Canutillo Friday morning Rail- ! " WOTKea "iy ana late to trans-
road telegraph operators along the i 'OTm tne Place from a rough lumber
I!t!?wef tern de"le1 Friday night that mp Into one of the finest and most
?lif ;ca?s 5ad bee.n seen ln the vl- unique resorts in the United States. He
cinity of the railroad. Is a busy man. one who has success-
rDDiUT Tn7Tr7J. str........ I fully handled big enterprises, but he
CARRANZA TROOPS ORDERED always contrives to find time, some-
TO FIGHT IF TRfinPC roncc ." la continue to help along any ven
1U rioni If 1KUUFN. CROSS . tore which will improve Cloudcroft
UO..EUU. ic. june ii. nouid U. S.
troops again cross the border into
Mexico Carranza soldiers will attack
them, according to a new warning com
ln today from the Mexican side
, -;raiaa troops In Nuevo Daredo,
'". nave instructions
CLOUDCROFT IS EL PASO'S GARDEN
LIFE SAVING STATION FOR BABIES
Cool Fresh Air Laden With Odor of Pines, Is Health Giving Balm for Tired
Nerves; El Paso Does Not Appreciat2 Her Own Summer Resort Aniong
the Pines; Better Than California. -"ong
fcfc yjLOODCROFT is one of the
1 greatest assets Kl Paso has. or
-J ever has had." said Horace B.
Stevens, secretary of the Cloudcroft
directory, which Js the governing body
of the "Roor Garden or the Southwest."
Mrs
BY GITIIRIE S3IIT1I.
Chas DeGrofr not long
toured all of California tv..t - ":'"" " '" true worth. A great many
. . " . mo oLitai- nn nnr a. n. . . . - ... . -
VIV"ton;be- a. "er the close n, ?'"'
first real campaign trip. Mr. Hughes
was up early and went for an auto
mobile trip, driving his car himself.'
His first callers were the newspaper
en. He declined to say whether he
had seen the statement made by George
W. Perkins, in New York, last night,
regarding negotiations for the restora
tion of good feeling between Progres
sives and Republicans.
'Callers who had engagements In
cluded representatives W. D. Stephens
and senator John D. Works, both of
California.
Representative Stephens said he
naiueo. 10 congratulate Mr. Hughes and
With Gen. Rail of Kl i,VX v- -. 'i-"i
t fact that such a warning had
been given.
Diplomatic officials were Inclined to
beHeve that if Gen. Trevino did servj
a warsing. it was for home consump
tion. They thought It might be a. po
litical move by Gen. Carranza designed
to, offset the activities of tho antl
ABierlcan element in Mexico.
Pmaing Mny Move as He Wishes.
Gen. Pershing's orders authorize hint
to move in any direction he finds neces
Si1? nLs 'BrIK6- No official would
predict whether these orders would b
changed, but the general Impression
prevailed that they would not be
-i-Afc",. Is " Xe?r of M Immediate
". ronnar, ior orffeials licit. r
or the trip, declared that she found
nothing to compare with Cloudcroft
During the period of is years that I
have owned a hnmA in rim.M..
. -- -... ... ..wuui;. VFlfc. W
T,arntpe.nv.t 4t ?f them at th re
I realize that I have saved a great deal
or .money by having a home there. I
Ihta1,tJ,t I-.b,re SSkVed and ralMl n
the great Difference between main
taining a home in the Sacrementos and
spending the hot season at some of the
resorts so much further away.
Cool, Fresh Air.
Time and again I have heard the
nmnlin, -...).. .1 . ,. . ...
........... .uauc mai . louacroit is a
do not know anything about the place.
"i" inrougn hearsay. ThU brings
""" " n me truth or the old ouota- '
uon. A prophet Is not without .honor. I
save in his own land. In trying to I
prove the enduring charm of the place. .
1 Can do no lvtfr thn a nAlnt a... '
1 .. ... ....... ..... .. .v crv.H. vu. .
j tnat those who hull! hnniM In rtui I nt jc ia vi,- -..
I croft years ago are still spending their i lasted ontil after nidnit
I summers there Those who know fh ! Karl. Ih ,h. . .?
Place best like it moot j mltte. heard the coteV for the St
Is Baby having Station. Sniil"?i"eAn rrom T?xas- Juie
promise him his sunnort H ..u k.iGn. Pfrahlnc- n-n..u u .-,
proposed to register as a Republican steP that might lead to serious con
when he went home .sequences until he had communicate
with Washington. -.
RESOLUTION CAUSES SENSATION TJ, tr?ops 7ments in chihua
POINDEXTER WINS TEXAS PLACE & atout-SL 2522tiSZ
St. LouU. Mo. June 17.-A resolution PTheri MeScar,"feiUI.e mOVC- ,
presented at a meeting of the Demo- trS-lhmU of VZJuvSj.
a,'.c..,,U?na, committee last night strength on two lines, converging from
providing that the committee name Its P?1?;1 "er the border east and wes
own chairman and secretary from Its ot Ota. Pershing's line and meetme a.
own membership and that the Demo- j a Pt south of his rieid base at Nim!
St,c5r;side?tial nomn be em- inP- The eKect has been to enctosi
powered to select a campaign commit- the American troops in a giganUe v
tee and name its officers, created a ( No Attack on ConauUte!
sensation among the committeemen A consular dispatch from Dnnni-n
gathered to effect their organization. M, said there was no truth in thf re
The resolution was defeated hv ro. oort that th. ir.J; .,P-a.,.'e-
m 4 .1 .. . . - . . . ....... vuusuiaie mem
a e Date that ?au been burned during an antl-Amer-
j "-" "cn'ouairauon. TBe consul said
1 "ct;u no aiiacK on tne con-
WIHlain Poindexter won his contest
. k" irovn ueuause ll nas no lanr
rt n.rnAu- .A w.t- t- n. A. .1.- I ooa ox water. Som npnni. a.
big points in its favor, from our point 1?.? !"! ,h,ere ?" e w summer re- J,1" M
of view Only 113 miles distant. It is ffiJ w t,e?Ur,7atter. Cloudcroft does ' hhea,'r
accessible both by railroad and uto- I iac..Wd,er' b.ut 'J ,s simP' great as a .,he lo''
t n&rKnn- -- , lik.H.U. --. t
,-- - r . , . . ...r-. .u gium : over xnomas B. Love, formerly of MIs
for hundreds of little babies, brought souri, who urged that judge Poindex-
? iUHa",i? V'!i ,he r"fZ ihSOJ"'.n ter'8 e,ec,,on at th contention in Sn
18 called the desert, that f?iniilrnft i Antnm tu. i ,. V "
rregular
mobile road. The time bv rail from
It 1 Paso is less than S honr Thx au
to put up a autonjobile roads are being constantly
. . ta., o fcu pui uu IX -.wnwoiiB iu
.hiiL l.j i rsisL j. ,1 v ni.Gi ni a w w ... . m, ....&.. ..., .. ......
ori" Amertca rt"- radiess Mountain Park and cSSSarU taJw i iST" .? " " ' delightful experi!
. e eie&n. nsul here continues
I?i.i.pe?d the nlebts in Nuevo Laredo,
while the American consul in Nuevo
Laredo continues his headquarters ln
Laredo.
In better condition than It has ever
unvn oeiore.
Deals California.
"The 'California resorts are many
times as far away, much more expen
sive, and really are not so delightful.
summers there
sulate.
There was no confirmation herr of
the report from El Paso that Gen.
oavira had been executed in Mexico
lskrd Only for Information.
touches the ten,ler-st snot in ZZi i " ""' '"ksuut .secretary Lansing denies a renor.
i hearts Ailments that are peculiar to PI.AN TO NT.TIPY Wlf COM AT lrZL?S.VnlJ?rJ!' L!ct.' ? BrlUs
lttle fellows frequently grow! .:. "'"uum ci I T.TT . v . ul Bm'
,hds"heIor?n,heen,r.d"f,! l""' LAW' NEW ' ST.brSr tbear
resort, in spite ..f that lack It i n7 cool the ..ir. and tt is then ha .m wZ.kV J.?, -"- ' upoi, tne course or the United States to.
possible to hae .11 th, natural ad Cloudcroft is a ventabel havenTw.th im mil ioOfliZ h?"' reC"Te ?r" Lard "'?'. T,hey. T uerstood to
vantages and attracUons onrlocal-I ,ir that cools and soothes and soon re- aid?Sin v j Ti.!r,'llf,S3 J ', "i-i 0.r i,,fo""atlon as to
Hy. In my Judgment. baL . ' "tores peace and order tn theinfarf Slha,dS "k, PJ8 w?T 2Lera!, JiuaUo" in MeI "....?"'
at a: .... -- . .. . - - .--.. w waj aas vi vwaiuis i iiamv nun znr ncic mm inai nan upniumin itirfiAni
K Wrt El Kso owe. hli'Vnd her ""'."fo ""'" . I Ml. '?" government were
paign mat win
ence. the cool, fresh air. always laden
with the fragrance of tho rin.. j
rJ.t".1 I!owCrs; ' amP-e compensation
for the lack of water.
Not Appreciated.
Sometimes I am afraid that the neo-
i-. . i.. i u uu nui appreciate Cloud-
life to the magic air of that wonderful M " ,k. V.,'? KrUB.eraofral,c cam- I '"o-easingiy serious, which Is causing
Dlacc abo- th clonda." 1 11 '. "- "'".. " .n evien irom un ; "mi among omctais nere.
p a ,? ?, . , wJ"te ""ye. will begin to take definite A message from Monterey, where the
rounded Rnby Sanatorium. I shape after president Wilson has con- ' first anti-American demonstration o -
beSn workMonW"lSn,o'eerf"Ht.n '. Wlt" ck- the new , curred. said normal wndlUonspre
begin work on the pUns for building , chairman of the national committee, vailed, and the excitement had whollv
-- al.-S .... I . ... I . - ----.
. nnitHttna up sat9 4, A1 )
CoBtInned on race 3 col. 3
he Border Has Weathered So Many Psychological Storms, Let Us Renew Hoi
