0 ) Si'i"i n
UNIVERSITY
LIBRARY
e)abor;dvocale
INDEPENDENT
NON-PARTISAN
-sKaassws
Official Organ of the Building Trades Council of Cincinnati and Vicinity
CINCINNATI, OHIO, JUNE 17, 1916
Vol. IV. No. 9
One Dollar a Year
'7 Refuse to Testify"
"They Sent Me to the Penitentiary for Something I
Didn't Do," said Gabriel Sullivan at Doty's Trial
The Building Trades Council
Hold Regular Meeting A Movement On Foot to Or
ganize the Trades Union Laundry, With the Stock In
the Hands of Union Labor Only. This Should
Prove a Profitable Investment. Only
Routine Business Transacted.
Slowly the Truth in the Doty Case Will Unravel Itself, the Crosses
and Double Crosses Will Be Shown to the Public Trial Continued
Until Next Monday.
"Before I testify I'd like to speak to
Mr. Cogan or Mr. Fricke."
This statement was made in Court
last Thursday by Gabriel Sullivan, now
serving a life sentence in the Ohio
Penitentiary, he having pleaded guilty
of second-degree murder for the kill
ing of James Shall, non-union painter,
at Christ Hospital Annex, December !)
last.
Sullivan was called to testify for the
State in the second trial of Herbert
Doty, one of the four union men jointly
indicted with him, for first degree mur
der for the killing of Shall. At the first
trial Sullivan testified for the State, and
declared that he and the others had
gone to the hospital to "get" the non
union painters working there, a strike
being on. At that trial he declared he
went home to get his "gun," and that
the "slugging gang" then went to the
hospital. f
Testifying further at that trial, Sulli
van declared' that all the men, himself
included, cljmbed through windows into
the new building, and that he went into
a room where Shall was standing on a
step-ladder. Shall descended and start
ed toward him, when he drew his re-
' volvetvamrfire'dcT He.thati.ran, butStop-J
ped at the door and again fired at bhall,
after which he joined the others and all
left town that night.
Attorneys Were Sent For.
Recently Sullivan sent word to At
torney Thomas J. Cogau and former
Municipal Judge A. C Fricke, counsel
for Doty, that he desired to see them.
When they were in Columbus before
the Supreme Court, arguing the ques
tion of charges given in the first trial
of Doty, they went to see Sullivan, but
insisted that Warden P. E. Thomas- ask
the questions. At this meeting, it is
said, Sullivan declared that he was
jiot guilty of willful murder, and
(lie other men did not know lie had
a gun. He also said that it was be
cause of threats made by the police
that lie had pleaded guilty of second-degree
murder and had testified
against Doty.
When Clerk Palmer had administered
the oath yesterday Sullivan remained
standing, and, turning to Judge Cald
well, presiding in the case, said:
"Before I testify I'd like to speak to
Mr. Cogan or Mr. Fricke."
The statement came like a bombshell.
Prosecutor Campbell was on his feet in
stantly with an objection, and Judge
Caldwell said:
"You are a witness for the State, and
counsel for the defense has no right to
talk to you."
"If Your Honor please," said At
torney Cogan, "Mr. Sullivan expressed
a desire to see us and we have since
tried, but were refused the right. He
has been held incommunicado in the
County Jail, and I believe that he
should have the right to confer with us
now, if he so desires."
Court Refuses Conference.
"He is the State's witness, Mr. Cogan,
and you have no right to confer with
him," declared the Court, and Sullivan
was instructed to sit down in the wit
ness chair. Instead he remained stand
ing, and declared in a loud voice:
"Then I refuse to testify. They sent
me to 'tire penitentiary for something I
didn't do, and"
Here Judge Caldwell stopped Sullivan
with :
"Very well, that will do; if you. refuse
to testify step aside."
Turning to the jurors, Court then
said:
"Gentlemen of the jury, you will dis
regard the statements made here. Pro
ceed with the ease."
Sullivan remained standing in the
jury box, looking inquiringly around,
and Judge Caldwell was- forced to tell
him twice more to "step aside" before
lie did so, He was immediately taken
back to the County Jail.
Both sides refused to comment upon
the surprising turn taken, but it is prac
tically certain that the defense will call
The Machinist and Preparedness
Thomas Kdison, the great inventor, in a speech a few days ago
said:
"The soldier of the future will not lie a saber-bearing, blood
thirsty savage. UK WIMi UK A MACHINIST. The war of the,
future, that is, if the United States engages in it, will In; a war
in which machines, not soldiers, light.
"I would make my preparation potential, and I would do it
right away. The proposition should not lie a military one at all.
1 don't like this military idea. It should lie done solely on an
economical basis a business basis.
"Building powder factories and machine and ammunition
factories would not cost much. Itut I would keep this in mind
in preparing to make stores and ammunition: I would prepare to
turn out right along-twice as much as is being used on the whole
Kuropean battle field then not make it.
"Now as to actual fighting. I would rather use machines than
men. A machine can lie easily as good as .twenty men. Then one
man, using it, is as good as .twenty men. He should he at least
that jood-if .be is American--. . . - , ' ., - ' -r
"America is the greatest nwiehinoY-ountry' in the world, and
its people arc the greatest machinists. The new soldier will not
he a soldier, hut a machinist; he will not shed his blood, hut will
perspire in the factory of death at the battle line."
Where arc the machinists of today?
Fighting for their own health and against being worked long
hours.
The men who will lend the Preparedness Parade next Saturday
are the men who are lighting the machinists and who have driven
most of the high-class workmen out of the city.
Why not start the preparedness at home by treating the
machinist fairly?
The Building Trades Council was call- Sunday at 10 a. m. in Ratterman's Hall,
ed to order last Thursday night with Twelfth and Walnut. Each union is
Vice-President Phil Fischer in the chair, asked to appoint three of its members
The minutes of the previous meeting ' to solicit among the membership for
were read and adopted, I shares, and one of the three to act as
Communication from the Hod-Car- ' delegate to the Boosters' Club. He will
ricrs' Local No. 110, stated that Brother i tell vou all about what we are doing.
J; HS?". bad been elected delegate to Wt. 1)elicve the Laundrymen's Asso
t he Building Trades Council and BrO- c!ation t0 be antj.Union and back of the
ther Hogan being present was duly ob- wrcckin of the Arts and Crafts Laun.
ligateu. , . dry as a union concern. The lockout of
1 he following communication was the union laundry workers has brought
read from the organizers of the Trades mattcrs to a crjsj and compellcd organ.
Union Laundry, where an effort is being , ;zed ,abor t0 ac, In our own defense
made to organize a Union Laundry in tllercfore, wc arc sceking to establish a
Cincinnati and sell the stock to union I laundry tlat we w;n own and controi
workmen. Communication was received . ,i ,,.-.,.
You will realize that in order to carry
out this project it must be taken hold of
firmly and unitedly. The committee, with
the Council backing it, will do all in its
power. With your Help we will suc
ceed without fail. Let us all get to work
and brighten the face af labor in this
town.
Don't forget the Boosters' Club and
the selection of the delegate to it.
Board of Business
and referred to
Agents.
Trades U.vio.v Laundry.
To All Organized Labor; Greeting :
The committee appointed by Centra)
Labor Council to establish in Cincinnati
a Trade Union Laundry, has completed
preliminaries and is now receiving
pledges for stock.
We have an excellent chance to get a
going concern on favorable terms, if wc
act quickly. We aim to so organize it
that it will do the work demanded by its
customers in the way of quality, and to
uuarantce nromnt delivery, lo do this
wc must have the money and must look
to organized labor to supply it.
Wc have allowed for '3,000 shares, at
-. nnrli T1iici can hi nnifl for at once.
or-irvrinstallmentsi-. .Not .less-tliani'$1-iifi4' tors. ...i -.--A -;- VW& iw..-
to be naid on a share.' and not more than I Edna C. Obnstein. and
Sullivan to testify when it begins its in
ning. As the defense will likely begin
today, some sensational testimony is
looked for when Sullivan takes the
stand,
The "confession" alleged to have
been made t.o the police by Sullivan was
read to the jury by James Kilgariff,
secretary of the Detective Department.
At the instigation of the State Dr.
Herman II. Hbppe, alienist, examined
Sullivan before he was summoned to
testify. It is understood that Dr.
Hoppe reported that he is normal,
STKIKi: (JUAKI)S IXIHCTKI).
committee:
E. L. Hitchens,1 Cincinnati Typographical
Union No. 3, Chairman.
Wm. Prout, Shoemakers' Joint Council,
Secretary.
A. E. Jones, Street Car Men's Union,
Treasurer.
Louis Distle, Ice Drivers' Local.
Harry, Lacey, Moving Picture Ppera-
5 shares allowed to any individual.' Un
ions arc urged to subscribe (up to 100
shares allowed), and to make of their
shares an investment, preferably to
bonds, or allowing their money to re
main at low interest. We propose to be
extremely careful in what we do, but
wc want to make as rapid progress as
possible, anil urge unions and individuals
to act as promptly and as heartily as
they can.
We have orcanized a Boosters Club,
to make a whirlwind campaign for this
Miss Jennie Anker, Laundry Workers'
Union, Trustees.
Business Agent Hock read his regular
report which was ordered received and
filed.
All trades reported business good.
Board of Business Agents reported
that it had concurred in the action of the
structural iron workers and placed the
Latonia Jockey Club upon the We-don't-patronize-lise.
There heintr no further business be
fore the meeting the Council adjourned
laundry. The Boosters will meet every until next Thursday night.
Tiffin, Ohio. A grand jury has indict
ed David P. Graham and Gus Peterson,
strike guards, for second degree murder.
They arc held responsible for the death
of Albert Latonia, a striker at the plant
of the Webster Manufacturing Company,
whose iron molders arc on strike to en
force better working conditions.
The grand jury recommended the
withdrawal of imported guards at the
plant and their replacement with not to
exceed three local men.
Union Bands
Refuse to Parade With Scabs in the Preparedness
Parade Committee Will Not Interfere What Else
Could You Expect From the People Who Are Run
ning the Parade.
HERE IS ANEW ONE
Cleveland Federation of Labor
Want Union Wages for Jurors
If the Law is Changed Politicians
Will C3o on the Jury and Not
Trade Unionists.
"It is a demonstration in behalf of
union labor and something with which
our committee absolutely has nothing
to do," said Chairman Win. B. Melish,
of the sub-Committee on Music of the
Citizens' Preparedness Parade Com
mittee, Friday, in reference to the ac
tion of the Musicians' Union. The lo
cal organization decided not to permit
a union band of its organization to
march because of non-union bands that
will be in the parade, but provided that
such of its members as wanted to march
without instruments might do so.
Colonel Melish said further: "Our
committee offered to see that every
union band secured an engagement. In
our negotiations the local union first
objected to marching with the First
Regiment band, because it is non-union,
but finally consented lo allow it in the
parade. I then said that the row was
between the union and four other hands
and, as they had conceded the matter
of the First Regiment, they should al
low the others in also. The action of
the union yesterday is simply to demon
strate that it will not march with a non
union band. The sub-committee re
ported back, and the general committee
on the parade decided that it would
not sit as a judge between union and
non-union bands, but allow each party
to provide such music as it wanted to."
President Frank Lohmann of the Mu
sicians' Union, said: "The decision of
the Preparedness Parade Committee
not to govern in the matter of music
in the parade left us no choice, as it is
a standing law of oiir organization not
to march with a non-union band."
The following telegram from Cleve
land speaks for itself : .
"Cleveland, Ohio. Union wages for
jurors are to be backed by members of
the Cleveland Federation of Labor, it
sentiment expressed at a meeting of
that body takes tangible form. Jurors
now receive only $2, while union work
men get from $3 to $0 a day at their
various trades, it was brought out at
the meeting. The proposed union wage
scale for jurors, if members of the Fed
eration can persuade members of the
Legislature to see the justice of their
demands, will be $5 a day."
If such a law is passed the politicians
.niifl broken-down merchants will get
five dollars a day instead of two, but
union labor will never get a show to
make the five bucks.
OMNIBUS DRIVERS
STILL OUT ON STRIKE
PARKE JOHNSTON
Secretary to Service Director Be
comes .Member of Board of
Klections, Succeeding
'Buchwnlter.
There was no change in the omnibus
drivers' strike Thursday and the con
gestion of baggage at the several rail
road depots continued. The men at their
headquarters on West Twelfth street,
said that no one would go back until
there was a closed shop or arbitration of
the wage scale. The indications were
that the company intended to put new
men to work. An early caller Thursday
on Acting Chief of Police Ryan was Su
perintendent Davis of the company. On
his representations Ryan issued a gen
eral order throughout the city that the
patrolmen should keep a special watch
on all wagons. In addition patrolmen
were stationed at all depots and at Vine
and Baker streets.
Kdward Duir to Take Johnson's
lIace Von Ifoene Will Suc
ceed Durr.
Parke S. Johnston, secretary to Serv
ice Director Charles F. Homberger, will
lie the new member of the Board of
Elections in place of Robert Z. Buch
waltcr, who yesterday resigned to make
the race for Common Pleas Judge.
The Republican Central Committee
vesterday recommended Mr. Johnston
"for this" place. They will certify this
recommendation to the Secretary of
State, who, under the law, must ap
point the man recommended by the com
mittee. There were about fifty others who
wanted the place. It pays about $3,000
annually.
Edward Durr, formerly secretary to
Safety Director John Holmes, and at
present secretary to the Hamilton
County Board of Revision, most likely
will be appointed clerk to Service Di
rector Hornberger. William Von Hoene,
former Coroner's clerk, will be chosen
to take the place that will be vacated
by Edward Durr on the Board of Re
vision. These latter changes, while not
officially announced, arc said to be ready
to be written.
WAC3K COXKHUKXCK.
Atlantic City, N. J. Representatives
of the Amalgamated Tinplatc Associa
tion of America and of the Sheet and
Tinplatc Manufacturers opened a wage
conference here today. An increase of
from 10 to 15 ner cent is demanded by
the men, while the employers declare
they have granted wage increases com
mensurate with the advance in the price
of their wares.
A compromise agreement is expected
to be reached before the conference ad
journs next Saturday.
:"
Ti
