The True Democrat.
VOLUME XXV ST. FRANCISVILLU, WRIT PELICIANA PAR4IS, LOUISIANA, SATURDAY, JUNE 17, 1901 NO. 0o
i i,,- nm !NH RIID -liimnan aann·n~ ll IN Bl l-iil i U IE I In ·Ira a IN I nnl i i l I - U i na n l i·mI B IIm i m m l l
SUNDA SCHOOL
ISTIWCT ORNIVES
IConcord distrirt of tih , We%.t t' li'
Ianrl HSunday 4Sc-thl A s' in,l It ulcit
at Netw li-)1' churcIh r tI l ri, 'li' Thurs
day, June Iune ' s i a ait , .a Ito ord r
b) Parish +critr i aIt I I c'.chlwk
to State ?untllhcis `tc'htc 4 r,. 'I ci'c Mr
'it ci 4'ateI r, N hi lie. hcndi 'tel"d it nig i e.i
% Ice.,, $eriplture, cipiolatiftlns and pr;ay .r
a cae-'ninl ex'rC('cises. The. obetjec't of
th' m+ete.titgl a a' slated to be' thl' It,'
teritenIt of NuItdasl cy thcedla .s n Knct",r'rl
and the' (oncordicI dUistriet i partie tr,.
A general disceusseai of th' thoircgitih
orgatnislz g of the- Stce1eiuh . ths'.els fiat
lowerd. A innclllenttt'e' ia t a li.llt'd t'o
elittPttss the' tt* ta,'e cil Ia t nut kIc' nlinIl
nations fora oflle-rs The' rcoe te tc t inn
adjournedl at lnoton teo iartakie of i'
i)nellltifl and iwtll pre'pnircld dliscner, l,+
the !ieo't andles iof Ihe' eonlirnitt.r
ftleIr d stin'er the'(11 6,llc 11lIt alls rail
ed to ortder by Statel tecrturt N hiiil
t'artelr at I :e . Thet firyst thia it c.r.ei r
we'Iicg the e'I''lt ti of disctri c I tficrc rnc
the contlte'e' con Ino inllt lo, re-lhirt
cel, and the tfllod wit tellicroll wc-re.
-leetetd to serve' foir tl cetasini yter
I'recldent, T. rl S itan, New. Io)eej;
VIrte Irestdelnt, Mrs. M. lt. Jacnkson,.
Wakefield; tecretary TreMasure'r. tMrs
h. U. Smith, New HIope; Eleantae'ery
lhepartnment and Cradle Roll. Mrs.
Mabel Thomrn, Thom ('reek; Adult th'
partment. Mrs. Alice Miller. ('Concord;
Teacher Trainins. Miss Margaret J.
Thorn, Concord; Miselonary and Totm
ierance, Robert J. Thorn. Thorn ('ree-k.
After the election of o ceers Mr. Vat
'arter disaussed the organlised work
of the Sunday School -- hocal, district
and parish--and the benlefit of lSunday
Rehool ralles, which was followed by
a general discussion by the Hatinday
Sheool workers- present. There were
only three Sunday chnools re'presented
In the ounventlon. vis.: (Concord. Thorn
Creek and New flope. There' are ocne
adult Bible elass. one teahehr training
clsae and three cradle rolls re'Ionrted.
There was no repreentative and no
report froma the Wakefield Sunday
School. There are about Io) enrolled
into the three schools retpreented. Offer.
Itns were asked for general Sunday
School work, when $15.80 was nsub
aribed, of which 12.75 was paid in
cash, the balance of $13.0, to be paid
to district secretarrytreasurer Mrs 8.
0. Smith. There was an audience' of
-) or O0 present. The c'onvelnton ade
Journed at 3:30 p. m. All are' ,e-ll
pleased with the contventlon work.
PRANUT POLITICS.
((lulfpcort Newsa. I
The effort of a few dclgrstntled lpel
tl)ians to remove' Ier. (Oscnr lealling
fron the prlesdency of the ' tultslatan
tatel ILard of Ihalth should be
frowned upon by all loyal citllleni (of
that State and cif MUsicin-Ilppi as well
1W. Dowllnl has "mande cad le' I !
one of the very ftw heallh reIe'rs to
be found today in the South who has
done hise tfull duty in the, face eC almost
Inmulrmlonuntahle' obstaleslr All violatllors
of the health laws knok alike' to him
The New Orlean. mtllionalrc and the
most obscure farmer in the statte'
poorelt pariah are treated e-xactiy
alike. To removel him frootm the postl
lion he Io creditalbly fills would be
notlie to all pulblic ofIials that to do
their duty moans dismissal frOlt the
people's servlrie Missslslpplans in
Igeneral and the, re'slde.nts of the (ulnt
eoat ln particular are vitally llterested
in a proper enferc'e-nee-it of the' he'alth
laws of loulilana Ilhluncdrleds fit thou
sands of our cltlhlns viit Nre' orlreans
in the course of a year's tlni, and they
know that while Dr. l)owlltng "Is on the
Jhb" the danger of Mcontractling an
Infectioust or contagious disease Ia
reduced to a mtlhnitiun . We' thcroughly
edorset t te IflloIt Iu c-icr-erpt fronm the
lit. Pranletullr ia Icrrc- h Irmec-rnt
"Prom the ehoila.ts the, stliatS llioe-l
tilon,. charitable end c-,letce.lt cnal and
the Important boards. tlie haud  f tfhe
apolisman should be a ithh-ll, andl re
movrals for cause only ascu-leht Ie the
rule. It is this violation ef c,-rr+r-ct
romllllte that sntm back so nmuch ,of the
publite ervIc. and in the c-as (of
Itr. towlig it would be a mistlake that
rweould tw rcognlsed as such a heres eor
his name atd work have pne'trate-d,
and that is ta; byond the confine-s, os
iouilsanl. A tan a ho would supplant
Icr. Dollnlg. btrays the fact that he
carea more for hl omn nllt aggradlinemnt
than for the good of ~lhielana at hOme.
or her reputation abroad."
EITTER IABIES CONTEST.
MIltN A V iARItOW, 'hl. hairlrill I
I1tt4 l. t ; h b 1li ti ll 4 r lho .'"
If 4o, fIo dl 11111i a*illll4 Ilir 11i40 t1 ill
Object of Contest.
T he lietter Il hiab es 1 a n1 ,.pt is ;4 IMIIpop
1,ar yetI st4i"-ntile tool ,ntsatt I ts ih h llr4
Ph 11 41 t hcllil laI :1 . -ltt rI' 1, 6 41 i t 'u4t1i
nsidh of ( tit rllnel. Inlg lllilmy :t1 l at44 ;aII1
lir ) 111-t104 to 1-hildr'ln if Ike4 4 t" 4r e 4,
I r nwIoil 4c·4lt I ih I ltl ' a le* Ib i hrll - ' a r
Idt14 that air, apiepli'd I. its, 1411,Ck
Ow"it M6r', beauty dol 4 li 1 4 144 4 ll;!i
Phi Ni'l al and mn tallit l d4~ k'l,º|lr, tal i (lle
are h4on:ide1red Th, e , i,' i r liatle"
4 .'It. t irl 'i ntr s c It : ltlr Iat'te of itX I.
1 tall. herr'auslje It Iit iuhr4u Itiatl ill4t 1how
cthill, r41 tt alr.'ad. hI inl oand to prot'tli
hthi ,  f, usibelrn I! aroulls,1s initI4r,4sl
il ' ith llh l sr til It imof (hihold li I drelllt
h1, atih ttril 4li allJ f 4orms o. II thlhl l I
fIcre 11 foarge t if 4ol3t1tilh . link hr
, r % I l l f'it 1 an ld (4 tl''llt ilrl 1 h,"4' 11
tI1 ' 14$11it' lllit li. ih 14 ' lltit .4 1t|)3\ of
child life. It promohlrtce cit it uisr, .I
t, t< heirsi of tIl' comnll ml)
Division A.
1 I114,. ; 4 tlnlthMs to .4 t4 l4onllh4
of age IIi ltlll4I
e? ( ta1l Il lllthls to '24 f, ttliOthM
of aBg' .... i9i llan
Division 8.
1 Iloy. 25 nIts) il l to ;16 months
of ago .......... .. 1ipl4t
2 iIrl. 25 months to 36 oneiulthie
of al e. ............ ... . I )ipla tlo u
Division C.
1. toy. 37 Inolths to 48 months
of ae ............... . Diplomal
2 Glrl, 37 months to 48 months
of age .................. ll plorma
C'hildren 4 months or h'lss anid 49
months or more not ellgible for lentry
SwHepstakes.
Hlighest saering boy. monoiths
to 48 months......... l'1rote' Modal
Flilhiest srortng girl. 6 mtnouth
to 41 months......... ..ltronc Mi-dal
Spcl'ial Better liableo awiarIs IO cote
tributed by W'omuan'sl I IlotC('otl nIpa nk L,
To highest scoring boy-Hlltter R;biits
Me'dal In IBronse.
To hlllhest soring girl-- 11.11 'r Ilables
Medal int IBronse.
To ea~h first-prlze witlner iettler
Babies Diploma.
To each child ,examiinetd In the (crn
test --Better flables ('ertilfrate oft Ex.
amination.
utos.
('ontest opru to all b biosn of W.est
F'elrtlana, t1. itwen 6 and 48 imonthl
All entr eo close on (kNtoti'r I4t.
IEntry blanks mailed ,on reepilete
Appolntmteonts for exramlinititl *11 will
Le malide In the order lit w hhih applica
tl',ns are reecived.
Notice of date' and hour of appesllnt
n4ent for examination r ill h nmailed
in ample time, bef.ore, tlIe' cr-int,.t i'pen 4'
All qllntions ton blanks slluhlitted to
parents lmust he answered.
No child sunffrlng frIni any nerpute.
(0t4f 4tJllitI llA lt cr i ftldtuitilll *liPei'nk,
lmay Ibe ealtnred. TI, Ir. vrl lt dallke',r
fron contagllIon, all childrin · ill Is'
cxaminetd by a physll-ani or tralinlt.d
Rlisrl  bffoet h'lntf adlillltle 1OSI tol 'I
rPeCpton ll romtl.
RIamlnations ull bglic nI I p m
on (let 12. 13 ai.I 14 at Pair greninidlc
Awards will be' mannde' l (n htocr 14
at Pair grounds
To Farmers and Their Wives.
YoU i stuIdy alentllifir ftnrmng and:
domestl c ttlenef -
Tot raIse biggefr andl bittr rops
To improve your lI~,' lock.
TIP produce rir'ir milk
To bake tlwter irne'l
To bale more monoy in theIlh itlk.
Why 1)4ot study liteter Ilabl4le glissti'
To smak' your hab) bigger ail
stronlger?
To raile the standard of hnllth in
your family?
To redue' dotorw' bills'
To have. happler rhildr'n In youri
home?
Te lMother In General,
tkfb yOu sanl health). hnlappy hhioie
Would youl liker to 4pr soIur thIv
ellnllnorished. firm oi lf fl.l'l. 1nrt0th (i
skin a prise baby'
Thel come to tit,' ihle'4r Itbcibes
('contest. iHave your baby tesetd by
p.)hyallanS woio klnow what a 1tll per
cent baby oulht to be.
If your baby tI. up lto tho ttndi-FIrd,
Ihe will win a prtse.
If he Is not, you will be told hoe to
Smake him a prise-wlnnor next y)ear.
The aseaorsn' bill names *).hf.)l as
the salary for the last Ielleiana as
.'smor and $1.&. for the one' In WIest
Yelletana. RIpenst e a'c..ownt allobwed i
ISIM0 and 91110 ressectively.
CATHUCS IONCLUDE
SUWESSFUL MSON
T ti, llnloil Vhich has bt.n con
d ei d l lluing thel past week by the
*-ºle.pesilt Ilessiiionary. Rev Raphael
(;,tnlhof of the Inassihnl.t Order IIIll
coo'lw tp ai, close tonllight I(F'riday at
:to The subjlclt of the leclture' will
hi' Whl I Am a ('atholic."
The, in olinhs has beie largely at
tendisel MIdich interest 1as displayed
,by the non C(atholics in the able dilu
',1iis"i's oif tihI" lnissi llary Many used
tihe ,'justion bIx in ,earnest seeking for
ifto.latiali regarding variout mattlers
oIf 4'athlliit' IoCtlrine and practtle'
lt'hese qullesti.illn were Ihoroughly but
Liiltii answ.ered by Fatlher (irashoff
It i t h regret that the Ipe-ophl,
,. tlhe Isistoli dr.~awilg to an etlnd
I'atli, r It.,mnhtsiuti. the pastor, at iht'
,.iltq.est ,of his parishiloners, has ini teIo'.º
I.1' 'aielik otrntor to returnt Itt|x ye.ar
FI'le m 41 F'n Pi"ltt'i5vili. Valther rIraLie
h'lIT f '0s to ('inton to conduct a wee.k's
mission, and then to Jackswo, for an
ºotlher mission rather Orarloff leaves
with the good wishes l anm appreciatlon
,of those who have heard him.
NEWSPAPER CRITICISM.
s'uppouse the newspapers told the
plain. unvarnished truth about their
critics, who are always saying, "You
(an't t lie'r anything you see In the
paper; taley never publish the truth."
What v:ould the critics say of them
then' They would be furious; either
war., to fight or sue the editor for libl.,
T".'iy want the truth told about the
,ither fellow but not about themselve.
The remark that you cannot believe
what you see in the papers is nearly
ialways the result of thoughtlessness.
when it i not repeated like a parrot.
hereuise the speaker has heard It from
others so often. They do not think of
the' fact that they are slandering the
editor or reporter of the paper. They
want the paper to publish statements
on its own authority concerning which
the editor has no personal knowledge,
as editorials, to which they positively
refuse to sign their names and som~
times become olaended If It Is not done.
R4,me, of them will relate to him an
untruthful story and then laugh at him
for publishing It and assist In critclris
lag the truthfulness of the paper.
They do not know how many truth
foIl statements have been suppressed
through regard for their fellings,which
would have been Interesting news to
eothers.
FAITH FROM THE FIRMAMENT.
INe ()tOrcan AmerI'an 1
S\ hIteautiful as (rIhn," sings Ilosner
In modern times we have substilltuted
,estru~lonoy for astrology, butl eltheti
tally Ve san stil feei "the aweeat In
Ituen~w of the Plelades." On any clear
night the radiance of the star and the
lot.linr.'ss of the sky aill the eye and
*'alt the soul. "look. bow the Scor of
heatven is thick Inlaid with patens of
bright gold,"
"lfiiepnd upon it," wrlites BrownIng.
ie of the most spirltually minded of
ithe Io'wts. "the uncertainty is part of
ithe, ilan " The doubts that assail nt
nil are Ipart of the tettllg of our
:tilrenth and the tempting of our in
te'lrlity The stars In their coursesw
fliht for us. These lamps of faith
we're Ihngll aboe our heads to illumi.
i;te' the night Iand to bring IIght to
our darkened minds.
Why the sight of distant Aldetiran,
euf the' tIreat Hear and Ilttle tear, of
Ihe' Icipper, or the Milky Way Ishould
so cheer us we cannot tell. But It is
an undliputable fact that they bring
to us thoughts beyond the reaches of
our souls and are strangely uplifting.
srening to be evidences of the thlngs
tlunseePn ubhich are eternal
ear galingl,. If mnoderately Indulaged
I,. Ii not an unprofitable occupation
ThMose of little religion need to listen
to the heavens declare the glory of
Gohdl and those who belleve are non
f rmed in their ereed by the costelia~
tions. The soag the nmorllng stalrl sin
Iragether, the musle of the spher,
belongs to the unheard melodis whieh
the poets declared aweter than the
melly that ii heard. With the spirtt
tral ear, if we are attentive, we ea-R
listen to the hymnsa of heaven and.
when our eyes are danled by the
splendor of the stars, we sometimesa
sImem with spiritual eye to ectch a
gilmpse of the beautifud vish.
AlTTAI ON . IV.HlL
AI PROVS FAIL UIi
INeo tirteans Times Picayune.º I
The efforts of Sienators Kchwint and i
wViedes to fasten evid.ce of l.lrscon d
duct on ti (overor haill and n.embers
I of the state Board of LiquidAtio who ia
I oted for the syndicatte awards of 1o14
i mid 1 I16 fll as Sat as a toy ballxm
pl-tcrke-d iIth a pin lb
iF'or.',er tiuernoer 11.11 occupied the I
witnº,es staned nearly two hours Ile
I phpiltinedIh that h(e and Gov. Pleasant
eifflered on the int~rpretation of Act 206t
of 1I14 ITh, latter, who was attorney
r general hen tiae- fisc('l agency' awards
er rle miadte. thought that the bids
shouhil 1, 'elt by districts, while he. I
tli-erlenr Halt, thought the ntethod of
t lawuarld u.e lehft tb the discretion of the 4
IlCaret of .Ietnidlatlin. That wasn a I
matter of I'gatl opinion, he declared. I.
T'the forner exeocutilee told the comr.
vsktlef that in supporting the syndicate a
'stld he' haIicl i'oulldered noti only the d,
Saeltre' riat tef intelrest offered, bit the ti
Sse'luriti of the- de-posits, the ability of t
the dBifforent bankst to refder financial
help ht the state and the convenietCe' A
" elit .a tio n to
The entire investigatih was ch-a r- I
a alterixed by the broad insinuations I
n which were contained In the questions
put to the diffetrent witnedses by iten- ll
asor hieilds, who acted as chief in- i
eqltsitor, and ('hairman chwlaig. These N
ittnuationms sought to convey the lm- n
Sprelsion that Governor tiall and his 7
r followers on the State Board of ItAqul
dation had ulterior motives In award. C
1, lug the Riscal agency to the syndicate a
banks. The recent gift of an auto
Smobile to Governor HIall by his friendas
r figured repeatedly in this conneection,
butt the veiled charge was not sub
stantiated by a scintilla of evidence.
(lvee'rnler Pleasant, Mr. hiarrel, I..
dou Stmith. Mr. Milisaps and Mr ('ap
devetlle testiied to the details of the A
eecutive sesasions during which the
114 and 116 awards were tmade. The
n Inquisitors sought in vain to And
,. idu~erc of Irregularity In the pro
, eeedilng. ti
I II
a TIN THOUSAND LOUISIANA IOYS ,
I AND GIRLS RECEIVING PRA. t,
TICAL TRAINING.
"What the modern child suffers from p
most seriously," says Professor John a
SItN wety of Columbia tniversity, "is that
his schooling iis chiefly directed toward
. nuaking him absorb a great deal of
infeormation upon a number of subjects i
which are not linked in any vital way
Sailth the practical details of the life a
which the child is about to enter."
It is just such a condition as this
thlat our agricultural and domesatll
srie'ce, schools are designed to remedy.
It is only in recent years that the boys a
anid girlt of the farms have been taughtl
the fulndamental and practical things r
that apply to everyday farm life. nla
dI,.,ii.iatnt there are llflytwo agriretitl b
r. :l '5,hoosis and more than one hllundred
. tlctnla with donestich cilence depart l
r nental In which approximately 11.0010 1,
yelieutg people are reteiving practical In
d struction in farminl and homelmaklnlg ,
f · d
f COTTON IS STILL LOUISIANA'S
LARlOGST CASH CROP. a
- t
SHlnr ther advent of the Mexican boll
S ,etvll in Iaulsaent It has been quite s
a h,, farslhhio It ro~fat cotton and to I
Sr4tr d tlt ita production. People have ~
h,,elrd so nrceh of the destruction of
h llihlensll'n rotton crop by the weevil
I. until they imagine that It is no hlner
0 cf c.onimetrcisl Imporwtan* Iin the state
in spitel of the wevil damal and the
redcthionll in acreap e alsed by it.
d ctlton ias still the lrlgefst cash crop in
i the state. The average valhe of the
S ulgartltane crop of the state frolm 1909 i
to 11ti ltltl exceptedl, Inleuilve, Ia
l$16 tl,.tI8k nti; the asorarge value of rice
,frr the same period is $9.944.Ilttt.ti;
d nel for the cottot crop sed and tint a
cevertng the lsame years which in- I
e 'ldlu all thIe years of heavy weevil
, damalgte, the average value Is $23.301,
: 14.ta. While the corn crcop, for this
I period, had the largest farm valuel of I
Sany other, yet only a small paerntae'
',f the corn moves to market as a casrh
tcrop. The average valte of the corn
a crop for the same period io $3.211,42, i
, Trhse aigures are taken from the report I
t, of the tUnited states DepaFrtment llof I
S.Agriceultt're. The 11 Igures are pre
a Ilminary. Mason Isaowdee. tellrnsion I
lDivislto. Ioiatsisa Stat. University..
REtEDAFT OF SHERIFF'S RILL.
T-i' new plan classiits thei parishes
sc.,rdlng Int w'anlt iand Istpui lltion
sad namesw tIhol, whlrh shall tWlong
to each (las,
A "sheriff's fuiId" is cre.at'd. Inito
which all fees are paid, to bt held by
the parish triasuire'r and uns.,,'r the'
dlreW'tton of Ilhi polllh' julr' The. shrtiff
can aplspllIt II hit dei.pitl', and pa olelit
I made on t arrant alpprieili Iii diitri'i
Judge
)e systepm of f(,'idllg oif pIrisoior
Is changtid. th, ,hertiff to Ihasr, jurisdir
Iloniii l the pc.licl jury tIl pat lthi' bill.
"Thli In thel machlirtlelry%, of Ihe art,'
nald Mr tiilnhI' t'he I .' c 'lltionl if thie
fund and hiN ait is diwh.irst. "
nalarlies are di. ided into Ki ilases.
by parlih·es, as fillwa
I'lasns A. $5.iwo I'Pareish s of ('waddo,
I'nIerasPIi. Fasot IMI ci Ittintug'. Itlaplildtes
I'la.s It, $4.2,I2 PI'arllho' =* f eaidia.
4 ey'lles, 1H4.I),to. Itwriha .Ieffers.nn,
lafayette. Natrchlth.ch.s, l )uci'hit,. t1
I.andr . at Mary. "I'Tanoilh.it, V °rnoua
('lass 4', $:1.Soi I'tarlliic, of Healr..
gard. IIi'nville. ItIrvill., I.afoirrhe..
Jesff i hMvir. 1abin, St 14,.nes. 4t Mar'
tlin, 141 'I'almnsn., Terr'botio, \'er
millo.l, WashingtIini and Winntu
('lams It, $:li.he Iartshls, of Allile
Asceinsionl. Assllnpttoni, iossit.r, 'lMl
ib'lorne, llriant I.neol'(. Moretiholiwe.
Poitnte ('otºwe Hichland. At liernard.
Franklin. Union. and Webstelr.
(`lass IC, $2,1,tui Parishes of ('alid
well, ('Conerdia. IP.ast ('arroll. Kaut
Pliclana. Ivangeline. Jac'kon. Ian
Salle. Ivlingston. Madison. Plaque.
mines, Red Rver, 8t. (Charles, 14. John.
Tensas, and Weslt liaton Rouge.
Cass V. $ -000- Parishes of Cameron,
Catahoula, t81. Helena, West Carrll.
and West VFelet'ana.
Expense allowance of rast Vellrcana.
$1.aIO0; West Pellreana. $l1,lilt.
MOVEMENT FOR TEACHERS'
COTTAGE.L
The National Iumber Manufalturers
Associatlon has decided to sponsor a
campaign for the building of a teach
er's cottaie for every rural school In
the 8tate of ilaislana. The assocla
tloa will provide plans r(re for the
nuilding of such a teacher's cottage
wherever the school authorities decIde
to provide In this manner for the com.
fort of the rural teacher. In order to
prevent unauthorised persons taking
advantage of this offer, the association
will Insist that the request for plans be
formally tiled by the school suplrin
tendecnt of Ith parish where such a
teacher's cottage Is projected
The teachers cottl.ge will of neces
ally a within the bioundaries of the
tract of land assigned for the school
house, or on a separate lot near by.
The building site should Itw crhosn n,
as to give the cottage as gIsal a seittltg
anid util cik as pimesthl. It should
iosntai atll are or mlior to furlrnlsh
room for a garllen ihh tl. a chicken
house. a cow or hLorsei stah.i,. acii, per
htlapI also roo frl liP sol ielnltll ratlIon
work where elemenlary instructlio In
agrlculturelr i lntroduci'dcl i the counttry
schrlrs Hitch courses a rll illtcri!eas Ini
the future, and It sill he wsell toIn pro
vlde for them In seletlligl the sIte and
determlnllng It aise.
The buIldlng of surch cottages i the
next hig step In the improlemnent of
the rural schools In tIh' t'niited ltates
and when yot hlok into the subject you
will he sulrprlsed Ito filnd how imnriy cot
lages havy. already bre blt uint In si'
statles as Washington. Tei'rsi. (ikla
horna, Soutlh ('arolina. N.rth Ihtakot
and Milnnenot. Moreover, Whiri' Is
urgent sail for them in at least some
secltOlns In SlnIosti c..)' r tate,
WHAT FARMING OFFERS
ThIs Is what the prrstilde'tt of cniei ofi
Amlrler'i I teadlng urniv'rsltl.'s las tI,.
n l) sl it h' Ihlopp rI 1ll,.1ii for lIuil.r,
and pruoft In flnlrieg
"!fill.les a oy ha.t n 1t.'.'; .-Iat. 'I ipref
SrenC' foIr sonic' oliher Irotsf* ihi, ii
dos's riot seine to lii.' a is', ft. 'r Wi l Wt.
gilore the great o!eplprtmliii.lt Iitha
agrtil'llur, tlt ffers. Whe'tl'f lihe wls
iborm in the rountry or In lthe citly.
"I mny opllinion. , e.lher !f'ilrl)',ltioi n
Ioffers o rtih rew, utri., ill thillg u tr,,
siLderedL, as slriclultir, offers i to hI -
who arlle wIllng tlo train IlitlelnUhn fr
it as earnestly and ltteillse ,tk1 as WhI,
oUild train thelmenseilv's for llaw or
nmedleini.
"If a blty all lut Ithr lealt,. nnlloilt
il time and satilty Intoi his tri iaintiK ftr
agltriculture that he a .iill itl ilnti his
I traInnl for Isa or muldtrilcci, he a ill il!
the greateL r imajortl) ut craei a wnkel
mlore lon'y, etj)o) greatelr fr.'eedoni.
Sbeter health, and develop lltrongir
lcharacter."
THE IMPRUE PECAN
AS A SHADE TRE
t IJh, S Kerr in Prlgressive' F'armer º
i hi should ps'anll not fortn the
Iarte'nt part of the shade trees about
;lur homes, aloung our streets and roads
n+t1ll in our parks' Trtue they are
harde'r to transplant and rather slower
to start off than some other tree. but
=hen, the, loigeelit), he'althfulnes+s and
lilt' riancer of shade are' consiesldsrs'd, to
:t hlling of the flne nlts, these
,lttit;l difithuit'ee becomen nsignlficant
%\ floe 4tnart or I\'~n lman bahudded*
i "' e t re re pllanted In a good place, on
the, ht,llc grouni#s ih worth five dollars
+n i'l It starts to grew When It begins
to h'',tr at five to ssewn )re'ars it is
, erthe twe0ntyfive dollars. at twent)
thi' years one hundrePd dollars woulu
hbe no Inducemelnt to part with it, and
te oten indefinitely
Planting and Cir..
C'"tt the top root of the yiounlg tree
off smoothly two to two and a half feet
below the surface line, dig the hole
three feet deep, fill In good rich dirt in
thie bottom of the hole, after the tree is
:,t In proper place continue to ll In
gaed rich surface dirt till the hole is
Itwothirds full, then apply water sult
icielnt to make the ground moite, and
fill the hole and mound up with the
soll taken from the hole.
A mulch of stable manure appllc
on top of and worked Into the surface
soil each year will be beneficial
Murh a pecran tree should be given
good opportunlties to grow, should
have plenty of room., not overshadowed
by other tree, and should have rich
soil and be well cultivated for two or
three years till well welstablshd.
The' beat cultivation for any tree or
crop is to have the entire surface of
the Iround well and deeply broken,
and kept mellow duriag the entire
growing seaion with plow or hog. if
pl'wlng Is impracticable, this same
condition may be secured by spading
and howing a smaller area around the
tree. This area should not be lees
than live, feet in diameter, and larger
would be better.
Pruning of persia Is a small matter
•"The main thing is to secure growth.
4tulsl treesr are best to plant. whIch
ne'ed but little cutting back when
.-plate.d The unruly new branches had
ltiter tbe corrected by pinching out the
terntinl31 btuda, fercing thtem into proper
iatr-tllons. rather thatn rltlngl them
reverely By a little tlought mand prar
tie. tres may eas;ly tle Iguided he
".iching thee tender Igrowth whilPe grPow
inl Into almoat any desired form. and
it isa intaely Int 'retlnlg work A
vigorous pecan naturally nmakee a fine,
symmetrical, statlely form.
Native Pecans Transformed.
Native caesS frequently are very
nparse twbarrse or have very inferior
e,,tS tuL,'h may t op-grafttd o
h''dded ' land sMs, neRlite t| isar the
flicel't leost ' The' Ier ciew s na) lee ,ashll
I, :trlnedl v AleI llsegeart tley or iann
Ne e ocily atlllt the he,.se antid yarld.
test nile the rcheter' biits of stfe laned
flit, etlcer setellal aIt eruis. I*tfld ,titlig tltr
r-e:I*s Rs., egpe'iatllyv slr gcnl recds,
eh'oueld ebe ellt lealtilleig file pe''rmn treo'w
ts tesl, of a Jjlglet' cf we'e'ls hriars
•, tho rni There. are' thceneatnds oif
.i, h .iots ef "lnt | e il lande ', ale i seur
+ccil eIrv;sele, thalt woulld ectllelro rt ce.'
tie i, half lrVet'n Igaittr~ Trees raeh lre
iezel eef ties' rcathk ve'g'tat teen ceiw iIpr"
,lileeg. eie) it sue, lhi rc'q luirc , ''rt little
"erk Sal"a texens..- to lleak.' ie.' tralla
f ) !+),if till
See'nle g'eeeI roads anld moneetrriecg are'
teow prs ,alin, ip.the. ees ofc the aarl1
tiet h rciv :te el e.eielletry. are'T firtii',l elese
ihe, rerail cleist t11(5 as s'oll cr teef'ur'. epe
tleat "'r'isitry pilansteiug" ueltd d',eetr!
crive hietroermee -nt sir.. to be lhb n.itt
thive. It is plain we are to have a
Irt,. esfcrmeeehst eef the, reselect ry dielrtrilte
ie tee c'e acc tettra'tilveIteeSles I t'seleteete'led
th, p Iiow as el' sf the icrines' feetiers
lit the gratnd work.
PIsare,. prespe'rlti y ae dr pr.epare,'leies.
the lknueert' sle llgarn. is as alike as
thre*e, p's can ie. Preeparedlela Ilnsauresl
pece, and ene. brlngs prospertl.
