GOVERNOR TiVCALL ON FREEDOM OF SPEECH You show that you believe in free
speech, that you do not believe there is any argument in throwing a brick or in smashing
windows. The world is not coin.: ahead by such action. We must keep free and open forums
of truth, where truth will be analyzed from all points of view. man can adopt the religion
which he chooses, and no church qr state hzs any right to interfere. There should always be sep
aration of church and state. The basic principle of government cannot exist upon any such union.
Governor M Call of Massachusetts, in an address on Freedom of Speech, delivered to a Methodist
conference in Boston, April lc 1916, following the Haverhill riot on the night of the fourth.
This Is Number 269
NACE
h 17. ltl
i
1MM
to33B3B333BSB3S3BSB3B3G3B8B953B3S3GSB3
f
A.
t
COMMITTEE Oil RELIGIOUS PREJUDICE
Campaip of FiIm Prttessi Conducted bj KriijhU of Co!ombos Viewed
' la lijkt of Crimbi Record-Is Tslso luot to Mark Their Attack
04 Danoaacj-With K ooejet) Words and Pleasing Phrases
These Met DeQerate Seeking to Decehro Protestants
mr. imUk J. Craa-laa. '
tk una km, aaa M aa a .
kt
k kMM k
akak ka-
A RECORD OF CRIME
Thirl OMoal U la Kaaaaa) Catkotia Teteratlim mm4 Loyalty
to Our CutltHtN
(It Jw IM. 111. at Oataata. laara,
aaa inmi aa MkM FtMw rMb. al
at Salkt l Caaaaikaa ul Mkw li.n Carkakia. earta
a alal,,l. Ml fc Hi lllli kaara ktaaj Ira
I kraal a mm aaaa. mmmmmi ntikd mmmi
lt Oa kaauwair Ilia. lilt. fcVrr. JmaiU J. Crlr waa anall fra
HMlHI at Ika aaar kwt la I at aa laa. Oka, to a liaaaaa aikaiar Ml kaa
araaaraOaa far IM aa aa kaal-4ka. a aa ear Um alaM aiaUue call,! la ara
lac 4k aalif la kla klakl caaatrurtiaaai Mbu,
41) Oa Jim Kite, 111. la rNkrkarak. r a Catkalat aak altrraalal la
arrraal Ik Bar. Wallaa Tkara, mm .1 tk Strat (a ran la a rkarak. (raaj MkM a
knar aa M.rtla Laiaar aa la aIarMUau It aat aalf villi icali ikal la
lln ekla la araaaat a Mat.
Ml Oa Nmabn Ilk. Ill, al Carta!, re, aria IM rlitaaae kal aaartlr -aaaaklal
la la SVaraaa B..OM dnnl la aaar a Wiin aa iMiiaiia, laa ikaaaaal
Baaaaa (alkali aaaaaaM ai f ra. aaaaefc, alt la. kalMlae. karlia tkraafk
aavaaa aa4 aalarla a aaaakar at Bar, aaualr Ik aaar al Um aw. ka a a
kaarkal aaaa aaa kratallr kaaiaa Mara laa cfcarl al aaltr aa akla la Mara ki.
Ill rakrmarr It. IU. Mr. kV. r. Itaaaa ae klltat la aarak al Aaaa. Mlaa
la aaaaar I kir4 K Talar attack aa Um aaalt aik.iav, WkO nmu la la. kail.
Mr. Ifrnmf aaa laa frWaas vara altarka kf aa..i.M. ska aiMtaklal aaa al Um
liaak lar Ik aaaaker. kaiaaaaaa kua afclU Mr. Iteara aa aaW4 la aaraa aa
(la palka aralarUaa kafar Ik aUa al Ik aafclt arkaal aiaraaara Ikrtr
lak. Tka? Utar rataraaa a la. kali aa lra la kraak aaaa Ik aaar. Oa lakraar?
l.ia. kaa aaraal I til aaatka aata(.awai al la. aaaw alar. Mr. baata wa r
laal a kMaaaa k? tk laalaai Raaiaa I Ik bra aka ika larctkly araau4 kia
Iraa arrWrrla at iMiat,
(I) Oa Marck Ktk. 1114. Um akl rkHMlaa ailaWter. Baa. W. H. kaWa. vkll
VMaarlac a larura ha SartaraaM. llllaaM. aaa aitatkaa kr a Ibau ( alkalM. ra la.
mmtn ( kM lanara aa4 fallaa la Mm kaar kf a tarrlar kU Iraai a a.i.r alirkar.
Tka lajartaa aaaiaraaa war aaakiil Ik aaaa al tHk akl rlarcraiaa' aailarlr
k'aatk. Tk Baltkia af Talaaika kaa Irta a araaaal Mr. IUU I ram aararlal a kali
k klrk a lari.ra. rallla ka tkla. Ik ajaraaraaa aaaaaH f.lU-a.
Ill Oa M.rrk 141k. 1114. Ik aaaw alikl aaaa aktrk Ik aalrar ai aaraa.
Iralaa aa Mr. kalaa. Ik Br. Baajaajla Cliaranai. aklla Iwlariaf ra ralaaara. Nrw
fart, aa) kltfaaaaa aa laa war ta Ik kail, la kaa k aa aaiiaiilil la a rrla4r4 larat
aaaa. aa lkraaia4 vttk Irarklaf aa4 alkar Wail 7 latarkn aaUa k aar la ia
aairaa kW lartaraa. Tk aua(4 M tarry aal Ik Uuaal aa IraMralaa kr Ik. aa
aartaa arrtral al Ik aaltra.
Oa Aril kik. till, Brr. Oil U Baaraaaa. a vail kaawa Baailat aitatatar,
k0 aVUrarlaa a aarta al lartana aa Baajaalam. al Daarar. lalar. kMnaa4
kr a kaa? al BaaMa (alkWa. lakaa Irani kla raaai at Ik XP lam Natal, aranaa M
a aallraf aat.au 111 a, lakaa tlm taaalf ailla lata Ik raaatrr akar k aa lakra
fraaa lb amkla. atraaaaa aaaa. aaa kraialt kaawa. la fad. aa alaiaat kilUa.
Tk rrtaihial raBiaa afiar rakkiaa kla. Ml klaj aar 44 lka allr. Wkra faaaa
kr kit IrWaaa k waa lakaa la kacattal kr k ratalaa4 far aaa lla. krlac
katwaaa llf a4 4aik.
(I Oa A aril Ilk. 111. Bar. T. J. Klaf. aklU aVIrrarlnv a arrtr. al Wrtaras aa
RaraaRbat ana Tk Ararriraa Caaafnaaal.1 al tk lira! Baailal rkarrk. JarkMa,
Markltaa. kaa kla arrlra tatarraaMa kr a awk al Baaaaa ratkaltra aal aa raaarllra
la rail aa aallr far aaaarl Iraai ik rkarrk. M aa aiaaW kr tk oak aal kk aaltr
nr.rl aaa aaaaaal. aarh laiarj a aaaa la tk araatrtr. Blallar aatrafai wr
riMll aa Ik fallavlaa alakl.
41 Oa A aril llik. III. Baa. A. R. Baraatl. a IWHataUkal rkllaaalakla rlrrf r
mmw. akll. lartarraf al Crar M.tkaaltt F.aajaaaal rkarrk. al B.rl.la. aa aiiarkai kr
a ml af Baaiaa taikarlr. altar Ik aakar kaa kara lntrraiaa kr a laa.lnf knlghl
I ( alaaiaaa. Tk alaaaw al tk kaltdlaa var aWr kr iliaa. a aaaaa af
aalkr Iaaa4 Haralty la aatUaB Ilr. li-raaU ta a alar af aalrtr aatU k caakl k a-
(III Oa fakraary 14. 1111, Bar, Willi Blark lartara! aa Baaiaakiai al Ik
raantr aaart kaa.a la MarakalU Tasaa. Oa Ik vraalnf af Ik 14. Mr. Hlark M
w.itra aaaa al ki raaa la ika kairl kr Bra wall kaaaa Kal(kl af Calaraka. wk
f.raa. kla aaaaktaa Ibat alrkt aa4 ararra kla a ' laaa. Oa kt ralaaina t
CaM kM ruki a a Aarrlraa Hllaaa. la lka (akiacu af lb aaa. HE Al BHLIAL
T ASHASHINATF.D BT TMF.M.
till Oa Marrk IM. lilt. Or. Jaarph BUItary. af BaMaa. wkll aaltrarlat aa
araa a aaar tk aaaakra al tk Oarla al Llkartr al tka Baalarara Maaaalr Ball.
kaak Ika fararlM aaikaa af Ika aaaal aakjarta t aramtlrat talr Maa al taKralwa
aal aakamar al lallfMa BriaW
411) Oa Ika alikl al A aril M. till, la Bararklll. Maa.. a awk af laa Ikaaaanl
Kalrku al Calaaka aaw alkar "praaa" f Ik kl.rarrkr la ( aralnal OTaaarll' arrk.
ii.f a. a a aarr Iralcal aaklblilaa af (alkali Uiallj la Ik. raaailtallaa af tk
I'allaal Hi las. ta tk law af Ik it. aaw tk rlrkia af rHIaraa. akll. akaalilaf
aaaw nwt a aat tk aialin af Mraara. tauaaaa aaa aratt caarra ana aata aaaal
raaaraalMa aaaa waaa aT w ; "'J. raraur m
aar Brraaat. Oa tkla aaractaa tk Baa. Tkaaaa B. Laaaaa kal ka araatal a
rail la lartar aa tk aaMw arkaal aal a laa. far tk raal (aaailtaianal
aaaalaaal la ararant aaallr aaararUtlaa af aaklic fa far aanarUa taaOlalbm.
Tk Balakt af (alawkaa akl aat wlak Dr. Lrl.a ta a arralilrw la llaraM Ika
vital imImm kafnr tk .Irrt.ral af MuMrkaartl. kaara. tkrr allarkra tk rllr kail,
aalaa araal aaat t aakll araarrtr. Nal raw Ira I wHk tka Ikar kratallr aaaaa ilr.
araaikia tk wlaaaw a a I alkar war wrarkaa kaaat af
f
rraararal PraMaUal. wrarkaw a aal
Itar raaaltUnc aaar alkar ana af
kr karalat aa al Ira a nek.
arr
U
aat ra.au al aalratlr rl.irM, aal
M rrtaiaaliir cap aal tk rllaat
TjSlTIE Knipht of Columbus nt
tl the thirty-rwoond seiwion of
fc their supreme rouncil which
d nt Seattle V'anh-
inpton, Aufjuht 3-5, 1915, under
took through their so-called Com
TnittiH on Religious Prejudice,
popularly known as the Koman
Catholic Chloroform Committee,
to divert the attention of the
public from Rome's war on the or
ganic law of fh$ land, and to de
ceive Protestant America br delib
erately advancing a fahe we lo
mask" ih rir attack on fundamental
iltmorrnry.
Mr. P IT. Callahan, a well known
varnish maker of Louisville, Ken
tucky, was not inappropriately
pluced at the head of this commit
tee whose effort is to cover up, or
bide the vital issue between Rome
hnd A mtrica the Knight and the
patriots.
A hrge sum of money was sub
scribed to pu.-h an extensive cam
paign in which highly paid special
pleaders for Rome were to erect
men of straw and then demolish
them before Protestant audiences
in the hope of diverting the atten
tion of the public from THE IS
SUE, f'Ai7 prejudicing it againi
Hit pairioU who are fighting for
the prtterraiion of our free insti
tut ion from Rome's open and
covert assaults.
The ample funds raised for
this latest Jesuitical campaign en
abled its promoters to expensively
stage, and extensively advertise
their highly paid stars who ap
pear in the difficult feat of trying
to male eighty-fire million non
Roman Catholics leliere that the
Knights of Columbus rere laic
abiding citizens loyal to the coruti
tutton. and not merely broadly tol
erant but strongly opposed to re
ligion prejudice, bigotry and per
secution AT THE VERY TIME
YFE saw kmgiits were
IXDCLGIXG IX CRIMIXAL
LA WLESSXESS, itOBOCRA CI
AXD RIOTS, DESTROYING
PUBLIC AXD PRIVATE PROP
. ERTY, MURDEROUSLY AS
SAULTIXO PRIVATE CITI
ZENS ASD OTHERWISE PRO V
IXG THEIR COXTEMPT FOR
THE CONSTITUTION OF THE
UNITED STATES. THE LAWS
OF 'THE STATES AND THE
RIGHTS OF THE PEOPLE in
order to nullify or rcuder of no ef
fect, the vital constitutional guar
antee of right of freedom of sjiecch
and public afombly.
Cockran, Scott and CaUah&n
The two widejy udvertised star
performers on Mr. Callahan's com
mittee who have thus far appeared
are Bourke Cockran and Joseph
Scott, the former long prominent
in Iammany Hall, is one of the
most loyal subjects of the pope, in
the army of double hyphens who
arc devoted to the papal theory of
government, in this republic, but
his attempt to obtcure the issue
and lure Masons and other pa
triotic citizens into the tpiter's net
no carefully prepared by political
Romanism apears to bare been far
loss succcscful than was anticipated,
and so Mr. S-ott of Ixia Angeles,
California, has been carefully
groomed and brought out with
flourish of trumpets and great
eclat
Mr. Scott is a renegade Protes
tant, and had circumstances been
reversed had he left the Roman
church and appeared under the
auspices of those who are defend
ing the constitution against Rome,
he would have nrobablv been mur
derously a&uulted or his meetings
would have been broken up by the
I I ' 1 . . , I 1
lawless jvmgnis oi ioiumrii ana
other products of the parochial
schools, in the approved Roman
(.atholic method.
Good Citixem and Public Schools
Happily for Mr. Scott, the prod
ucta of our public schools and of
American Protestant democracy
are law abiding and truly patriotic
citizens. They are genuine, not
bogus enemies of religious bigotry
and prejudice. Happily for him,
the Guardians of Liberty, and other
patriotic sociaties, seek to preserve
the freedom of speech and assembly
that enables him to appear unmo
lested, but wtucn bis church and
hi organization has been steadily
warring against since the hierarchy
set out to mtke America dominant
ly Roman Catholic.
The public tvhoola. the melting
pot f democracy, make fur intel
lectual hospitality. The (.uintisui
of Liberty and other patriotic so
cieties are striving to preterxe the
political syttem and th constitw
tional guarantees that ilr. Scott's
church and his organization are op
posing in their effort to further the
political ambitions of Rome.
None know better than the mem
bers of the Committee on Religious
Prejudice of the Knights of Col urn
!m, that the (iuardians of Liberty
and other patriotic millions who
arc tly Maying thcniM'Uc felt at
the polls, "uar on no tnan's re
ligion, nn'i that religion run on
fundamental damn ra y." and in
the second place, the claim that
"Rome or Roman Catholics believe
in religious toleration" and that in
tcllcttual hospitality which is the
crowning glory uf our great Prot
estant ilcmixracy is equally without
foundation, as can be clearly demon
strated, first by an apeal to th
only authority recognized as com
petent to noak for Roman Catholi
cism, viz., ths papal pontiffs, and
second by the present practices of
Roman Catholics in general, and
Knights of Columbus in particular.
Toleration and the Papacy
The campaign as conducted by
Messrs. Callahan, Scott and their
associates is as insidious as it is
iniquitous. Insidious, because their
false pretenses are masked in nohle
phrasing which seems to breathe
the bmad fine spirit of liberal de
inocrary, and the Protestant abhor
rence t( narrow religions bigotry.
Iniquitous because both ths charge
uyuiwi to irvi vwi trie 'rr"-
! en..in reaard to Rome are false
amf mifleoiling. With honeyed
j words and pleasing phraes these
I men are deliberately seeking to de
iceivc American Protestants and
create prejudice against all the high
, minded patriots who are striving to
I preserve the most priceless heritage
jof a free people. Now turning
from the false pretenses of Messrs.
Callahan and Scott as to the teach
ings and spirit of the Roman
church, let us notice for a moment
the infallible nnd irrefonnable ut
terances of the last two popes.
Piui X, On Toleration
Tins X, who, it will be remem
bered, died in 1914, showed how un-
; changing is t ho spirit of the pa-
pacy in regard to toleration at the
time when Spain slightly modified
her laws in favor of religious tol
eration. On this subject the Rev.
William Sulliraa. tr many jean
a profer of thdoy in the
Paulist House of St n. lira afMiatrd
with tbe Calboli.- I'nMcraity of
Washington, ot.rc m spraking
of Pius X:
U TTBTfwmlla ptMnaUsI a ft in at Ika
rerwat raiak law, abk rminillrsl row
akea daraacy to Ik rttaat of permit I iaf
aoa Cabolt ckurvixw ia Hpaua fa poat
olirra of aervwe, a I to tamr Ika rua
tnmary outward tifn "f kouar of arr
akip. Akl tkrouck kit iwarrrtarT of Iaim
brtrf ka kM rtaa 4l in ika bmbb Lx-pwirr,
Btilkor of M-ailnl ,i Voyrraaw
U aviu,' o romavm latnry Inter ki k
aara: Hr thin work u haie nlra frraf
rariarafo to Ikr inny roaftjf.
V.krrrfora, tko HnW Kklhrr ra.
grttmlatct fom AaarfW, aai rrayin( kt
tkd Umk nay bo of yirat t&l tw Btaar,
Invmcly lrtoa apoa you tk Apntl
htnfJulwn.' Tkn t-.k whirk. ia (hit
larntkHh rrntury kaa rainir tka krart
of I'lua X derlarao (p. 194) that nMe
brrrdra orarn aot a ralr to la rirotn
mutitratr.), but to Iw MM irf (mi
oTifiau ra Mt r atrtrfra I It
nfrrttmtur) i that Ika pnwrr lo mur.lrr
harrtrr halnntfi hoik lo the atai and lbs
chunk (p. 1H5); thai l ho thun-k haa I be
(Kiarr of pulting to tl uth nrn rrrnlaiit
krrna (p. !!!); that wo b.ii, not
tnrink from ntarin, tin trarhing out
of rrgard for tba arntimant of thn mt
ra a (p. SUl); that wo ahouM r
mrmbrr that fha rhurrk kaa raiKnirl
Kith entina.nt III i t Cmtile, and in
that town, on May 9th. of the prea-
riit vrar, admntbrd the cmsl
Catholif prr-nt "that they mutt
not fie J (Arte pnnciplr by enter
ing places of northip other than
their on a."
The tiopm and tbe ptvlatea speak
with authority. The prtim of
the Roman Catholic hierarchy and
the hiiikMiti of (.iilumlnis are in
rfcit keeping with this teaching,
and U'th are as unlike the pre
tended pnti'inn and teachings of
the Human church, as given fcy
Mciur. Sro't and Callahan, a are
diirlneui and night.
A further proof that tbe conten
tion if f..r. Callahan and Siitt
rc.t mi fal-e auniplioti, and an1
nprtd by falae preteliaea. i aHMI
hen we mmi'sre the works or ai--tions
nf the Knigbta of Coluinlnis
with thoe of the (uardians of Lib
erty, the Kni?ht of Luther and
other patriotic smieties atiinst
whom the Roman Committo) mi
Religious Prejiidu is direi'ting its
atfat k. The qlleJon t an easily ho
M-ttbil by merely judging from the
f rm to tif the twu forces who rep-n-acnt
mutually enlusive systems
of rovernnient. and here we are
JJjJon solid ground, instead of on the
" shifting sands of rival claims.
ROME CONTROLS U. S. SOLDIERS' HOME
anaaaw
War Veteran Wants of the Co. eminent Forttd tl Submit ta Am.aot
Stewarfithip of CathoEct ia Cbartt of IttstittTtioii Old SokSer
Monet Shouldered Out to Mjri Ptact fx CathoJic Niits
Shameful Example of Rone's Methods to Make Converts
i
II K I'nited States SiMiers'
Home at Washington. 1.
V hst InH-otne in large
measure a prey fr the 1U-
man Catholie wolie infesting the
capital of tlir I'nitiil States. This
institution nisnag.d by the fileral
goxernnient i niaintamiil for the
tare and treatment of obi and dis
abled al liers of the regular army.
Any soldier who ha served twenty
years or more in the army or wh
has served e than twenty jean
and ni-civcd in tin- scriiee ih-.ilnli-tiea
which unlit him fr furtlu-r
service is cntitli-d to lieivine an in
nate of the home.
This home einlirm-cs an immcnc
trait of timber land, lying within
tbe I'i-trict of Columbia and is
quipped with many commodious
building. The property is easily
worth ?o,000,Ooo. It has been
linn of the building which the
nun ott-tipy.
N"otwithtanding tbe fact that t
beautiful and commodious brown
stone ch.ipl for the uae of both
Protectant and Koman Cathulic
in holding religious servico atanVi
in a convenient place in the home,
one whole try of the hospital
building h.is twin convertol into A
liirjre additional thael fur the ct
i luive iim of IJoinaii Catholics.
Admittaiiiv to this cha'l i denied
to all except thoM? wlm dip their
linger in holy water and make th
sign of the irovs in true papal stylo.
I'ndcr the Konuui Catholic mana
agenicnt of this hospital a new ruU
mg has nccn made which requim
every patient entering the hospital
to give his church prrferem-e befor
being assigned to a Ixil or ward in
the hospital. Xon-Catholio patient
aarta ia tba Sraviarr tkaaa amrrt
praii of kirn: tVrmitted no karotirt ''Ifting
10 dmii ii kia king.... ad wttk kia Xn,, Teaching. Shown In Practice
a-a am Laaila kaAHnkl aw.v.l a. Ik. . a? I
llaMIVJB l"VIU(NI Wl , -,,a laa W SmMW I 1ST
thfir burning' (p. SO:'); that lbs church
tolerates karat bow tyvanaa it is not
pruoent to kilt tkora (p,i. 0S '.'Op) and
nally,' tbat tb pop kaa ths power to
depnao aorular rolcr Vko ahandoa
Catholicism, and to alsmtvo tba tnhjcx tt
of suck rulers from tbrir allrgiaaro (p.
210).
Benedict'! Religious Prejudice
Pope Benedict XV, according to
the lloston Pilot, Cardinal O'Con
nell's olliiial organ in its iuc of
Hei-emher Mh, r.M.'i, in speaking
Iwiore the Society for the Preserva
tion of "the faith." in Home, de
nounced the distinguUhcd, schol
arly and nohle Protestant divines
and educators who are preaching
the gospel in Home, as "emuMries
of satan," "thieves" and "liars."
From the above will be seen that
while the last tw eorercign pon
tills and the Kntht of Cnlumhus
rioters in t hicago. III., and Haver
hill, Mass., evimed exactly the
same spirit of intolerance and re
ligious bigotry they are wholly at
variance with the utterly founda
tionals claims of Messrs. Callahan
nnd Scott, as to the real teachings
of the Roman Hurch, teachings
which were well voiced by Arch
bishop Lillis, of Kansas City, Mo.,
who in addressing the Knights of
Columbus of Maryville. Mo., as re
ported iu the Democrat Forum of
There is no better way to find out
what are the true teachings of a
church or society, than by examin
ing the result of those teachings,
therefore, turning from the author
itative utterances of the present-day
papacy which to all loyal Catholics
is irreformahle, we will now briefly
notice the ri(i7 of Kmnan CaTTiolie
teachings in America since the
hierarchy became an active power
in American politics.
In the "Mission Movement in
America," published in the year
1!H0. by the Catholic University of
America, Washington, 0. ('., this
declaration is made "Our purpose is
to male America dominantly Cath
oir." Since the publication of this dec
laration, the Roman Catholic hier
archy and its "props," the Ameri
can Federation of Catholic Socie
ties, the Knights of Columbus, tbe
Jesuits and other onth bound or
open Catholic organizations which
are the feeders and sustainers of
the Roman Catholic political ma
chine have carried forward a steady
systematic campaign for the sub
stitution of the papal for the demo
cratic theory of government.
Opposing Freedom of Expression
This campaign has been charae-
'Sowwrt I
aa raj
X .it u r ' . 4 . . f .
aWlc',;
r.
to
il
V SITED STATES SOLtllERH HOME. WASRIMCTON. D. C
(Continued on Fae 2, Column 2)
PATRIOTS SCORE VICTORY IN FLORIDA
Governor Park Trammel., Patriot. Nominated For United States Senator
Over N. B. Bryan, Present Senator. Enemy of Patriotic Societies
and Friend of Rome Partial Returns Also Indicate
the Election of S. J. Catts For Governor
J
UST as we go to press with
this issue wc are in receipt
of a wire from Tallahassee
stating that the lion. Park
Trammel!, present governor of
Florida, was overwhelmingly nomi
nated for United States senator at
the primary election held in Flor
ida on luesday, June 6, and that
partial returns show the race to be
close between Sidney J. Catts and
m. V. Knott for governor.
Governor Trammell ia an out
spoken patriot, has been known as
such for a great number of years
and has been consistently fought by
the Romanists ever since he en
tered public life in Florida;
The present senator, Mr. Bryan,
whom Governor Trammell has just
defeated is recognized as a hench
man of Rome in Florida and dur
ing the campaign haa been very bit
ter against the Guardians of Lib
erty and the various other patriotic
orders, and the Roman Catholic
church was solidly behind him in
his race for the senate.
For the lat several months the
Catholic press throughout the whole
country, especially in Honda, has-
been very bitter against the gov
ernor, branding him as a bigot, an
A. P. A., etc, etc. The governor,
however, stood firm for his convic
tions and the interests of the pa
triotic citizens who elected him, and
as a result has just been rewarded
with the greatest honor that can be
bestowed upon him by the state in
which he lives.
The bitterness of Roman Cath
olic, against tbe -ira"r was in
tensified only a short time ago when
he had the courage to enforce the
law and order the arrest of Cath
olic nuns who were teaching in
pegro schools. Chapter (!490, Acts
of 1!1;, State of Florida, rends:
AX ACT Prohibit inif White Teraons
from Tcaxhingf Neiinx- in Negro Schools,
strained of nor liberty, a formal order
will 19 rnaile disiharging the petitioner
from custody.
It is intimated that the infraction
of the law was called to the atten
tion of the governor by Romanists,
and that the prosecution was
brought about in order to nuke mi
ant rrohibitinjr NeCro Teachers from j j, a modii ino for the church and
Teaching White ChilJrcn in White
Hrhool in the Btnte of Florida, an 1
Providing' for the Ivnalty therefor.
BE IT ENACTED BY THE LE0IR
LATt'RE Ok' THE bTATE OF
FIjORIDA:
Section 1. From ant after the pas
sage of this Act it shall be unlawful in
thia Htate, for white teavbers to teach
negroes in negro arhnnle, and for negro
teachers to tmeh In white schools.
Pee. 2. Any person, or perenns, vinlat
ing the provisions af this Art, shall he
punished by a line net to exceed f ve inn
dred (S5O0.00) dollar or by imprtaroi
ment in the county jail aot exceeding
biz (8) months.
fVc. 3. Thia Aet shall take effect upon
and after its passage and approval by
the Governor.
Approved June T,S913.
It was report. Jl to the governor
that this law was being violated by
white nuna in t. Augustine, and
he immediately $ruercl their ar
rest, just as he was supposed to do
and was sworn fi Io. Ihey were
taken before Jud 'C Gibbs on a writ
of habeas corpus and tried, and to
the great amazement of the people
this friend of Rome on the bencn
handed down the following inter
pretation of tic ktatute above
quoted :
It appearing to the court, therefore,
thkt th law U troaat kia pon which ths
piuaetutiow ww bd ta thia case does
as apply to frV acheat, and ttst,
tvrrfc'e, tV pa tc- h I'trfy re-
still further embitter the Roman
ist of the state against Mr. Tram
mell. If this is true they have
found out that the governor will
stand hitched no matter what the
circumstances .nay be, and in help
ing demonstrate this fact to the
people they have done more to bring
about his election to the United
States Senate than an equal num
ber of friends could have done iu a
much greater length of time.
The result of the election in
Florida has demonstrated the fact
that the people love a man who has
the courage to stand by his con
victions; that it ia possible to be
elected to office on a purely Ameri
can platform and thai the people,
when awakened and informed, will
not tolerate papal interference in
American a flairs.
Mr. Bryan, the defeated candi
date, can no doubt testify to the
fact that it doesn't pay to barter a
free American heritage for a mes
of papal pottage! In the quietude
of private life he will no doubt have
time to repent of his sins against
the liberty loving patriots of his
state who once elevated him to the
pinnacle of power and position
which be now holds, but from
which he bs fallen, r-ver ti rr.
declare that those who express a .
preference for tho Horns n Catha
olic church receivo every possible v
attention and courtesy at the hands
of the iiurics and attendants, while
other patients are treated with
cold indiuerence or neglect, and
that any complaint touching this
discrimination is usually met by
sending the complaining patient to '
the insane asylum or expelling him
from the hospital and the home.
All the mail belonging to hospital
patients passes thronu'li the hands
of Koman Catholic sisters of tho
Sacred Heart, and no patient is pera
mitted to receive Protestant or pa
triotic pajvers while in the hospital.
F.ven literature from the fraternal
orders is excluded, and patients to
whom such literature is addressed
are not permitted to remain long in
the hospital.
The present chief surgeon at the
hospital is Lieutenant 1 olonel J.
11. tilcnnon. Partiality and
discrimination in the manage
ment has filled the home with Ko
man Catholics, while the relative
nutnlrcr of Protestant inmates has
lieen greatly reduced. The Prot
ectants that remain are beins made
to feel that their days as inmates
sre virtually numliered unless they
liecome Human Catholics; and, as
most of them ere unable to earn ft
living, a considerable number hare
yielded to the pressure and been
forml into the Koman Catholic
(hurch. Men who fought for our
rinhts and liberties are thus de
prived of their own and are forced
to surrender their religious free
dom or be expelled from the home
provided out of their own
meager salaries. Protestant in
mates of the home have complained
in some instances that their medical
records have been falsified under
the supervision of the Komanist
medical and surgical corps so that
such patients are unable to obtain
pensions to which they are justly
entitled.
paid for out of funds arising from
the following sources:
1. Proceeds of (he disposition
made of spoils and trophies which
(ieiicrnl Vinficld Si-ott brought
from Mexico at the close of the
Mexican War.
2. Fines, forfeitures and stop
pages adjudgi.il against soldiers by
courts-iiuirtial and other military
authorities.
3. All unclaimed estntos of en
listed soldiers lio have died in the
service.
4. Twelve and one-half cenfs a
month deducted from the pay of
every non-commissioned ollicer.
musician, artificer, and private of
the army up to June, 12, 190G. The
major portion of the funds, no
doubt, have arisen from this last
mentioned source.
The financial and business affairs
of the Soldiers' Home are man
aged bv a Isisrd of commissioners,
consisting of the general-iii-chief
commanding the army, the surgeon
general, the commissary-general,
the. adjutant-general, the quartermaster-general,
the judge-advocate-general,
and the governor of the
home, the goneral-in-chief being
president of the board.
The officers of the home ate se
lected by the president and consist
of a governor, deputy governor and
secretary. Hie secretary is also
treasurer, and all the officers must
be chosen from the army and arc
subject to removal on the recom
mendation of the board of com
missioners. Hundreds of old and disabled
veterans of the Civil War and the
war with Spain are being cared for
in this great institution provided
chiefly out of funds deducted from
their monthly wages while in the
service.
A hospital is maintained within
the home for treatment of the sick
and wounded. Alsuit the vear l!i2
Major Iuis A. Iji Garde, a Ko
man Catholic. ;is appointed chief
surgeon of this hot-pital. Huring
Ins term t mtvicc in mat poMiionm,. pupiat
of authority the old soldiers who j When Tho.
Vidil Tiroi i(,iw1v Ikt'ii iliunr t Iw work
' i , i" 'church was denied according to a newi
of nurses , the hospita were mi . Hrr(l((fpf M.y 22.
plantiil by Kmnan t atholic nun. iwinc-sand mold'inKaeenu to be ef
The
N. V,
Presbyterians of Binphsmtoa,
apera to have been duly awed by
riot a at liverhill. Mm.
A. I.cv lon ai.-hed to lecture
in Minchamton. u nf tne rreabrtenan
news
... 1 1. - '
ami tin worn 01 convening uic in
stitution into a Koman Cr.tliolic an
nex went forward.
From that time the hospital !
came in fad to all intents r.nd pur
iom'S a Koman Catholic institution.
A considerable part of the hospital
building has been avigned to tire
nuns for their exclusive ne ami
froeisession. Xon-Catholic patients
hare been excluded from the halls
ev wbeb led thmn-h tb ror-
fective argimnt even
of !'rc!btcriati.
with aome hinds
The inpe's Hr.mklvn Tlh t aav thkt
Mr. K.a..-.-ll "IS TIIK ONLY
STATESMAN WHO PARE: TO
PUK KCll priil.H'I.Y THAT A I'ATH
OU IS AS (iOOl AS ANY OTHER
WHITE MAN IN THE t'NITED
STATES. Tho Col. seems to be mom
than ratisfartory to theae people ino
he indorsed their great M'licaa story
of atrocities and warma up to the psfal
crowd oa everr poaaibto oeeasic-v.
