The St. Joseph Observer
VOLUME IX.
ST. JOSEPH, MISSOURI, .-ATUIIDAY, JUNE 17, 191G
NUMBER 37
N...
!
'h
?
L
THE PEOPLE OF THE 0. S.
II
W
WON
N
inhw.
L
:j
r
And They Said So in No Vacillating or
Uncertain Tones at St. Louis
on Thursday
of Harrison, of Dlalnt, of Lincoln nndO Th law's roetralnlng big business Jefferson was wrong and Hamilton
of Grant? For the pleasure of crltl'y.cw stifling competition, tho trades , was wrong and Washington was
citing n Democratic president, are ,cor.nnnion act, the movement to wrong."
they willing to read out of the Repub
lican party the greatest men the Re
publican paTty ever had? Arc they
willing to Bay that the Republican
party of today cond mns what Hamil
ton did In revolutionary days, what
Lincoln did In Civil war days, tnd
what Grant and Blaine and Harrison
did but yesterday?
"In his policy of peaceful negotia
tions today tho president of tho
United States follows the example set
him by the greatest presidents which
the Democratic party and the greatest
presidents the Republican party ere"
gave this nation."
Mr. Glynn impressed on his hearers
n r A TM C TM il that It was the business of this con- '
OO Certain Are Ihey OI I heir ChOlCe ventlon "representing every section of
That They Nominate Both
Bv Acclamation
iostfr expansion of Amorlcan trade. The Justification of our policy of
toiunn rclal and financial interests be- neutrality Is expressed by Mr. Glynn
twen the United States and the na-( in those words:
tlon of South America are shown to , "Before this declaration every war
be 1' jlslatlon of the widest benefit, was a world-war; since this declara
The Underwood tariff, Mr. Glynn ' tlon nearly every war has been a
nhara terlzcd as tho fairest and the local war. Defore this declaration war
ben of all we have enacted. Under was a whirlpool, ever-increasing in
the present administration the United ' area and in its whirl dragging down
States has enjoyed a wonderful era of the nations of the earth; since this
good business and good times. ' declaration war has become a sa of
The American's Ideals and his aspl- trouble upon which nations embark
rations served as the basis for the only from self-will, from self-interest
lepenkir's opening discussion. or the necessity of geographical posl-
who stand today on the fertile tlon, of financial obligation or politi
soil of America, who live under the cal alliance,
smiling skies of a free and fruitful "Neutrality Is the policy which has
land, must prove worthy of the trust i kept us at peace while Europe has
that American sacrifices has imposed I been driving the nails of war through
SENIOR
STONE
FIRES HOT SIT
He Hits the Grand Old Party
for Invading Judiciary
for a Leader
the United States, speaking for every
racial strain in America, to send forth
a message to all the world that will
leave no room for doubt.
"Wo must enable every real Ameil-
on f-ry American.
"b regarding the
! the hands and feet of a crucified
divisions that , humanity.
maki one man a tory and another a '
wh u, one man a Republican and an
other a Democrat, Americans will cast
It did not require a ballot to re-nominate Woodrow Wilson for presidont
of the United States, or to re-nominate Thomas Riley Marshall for vice-president
of this great Union. This does not mean that tbo standard bearers will
not require ballots to re-elect them, but the American jpeople will attend to
that detail and will see to It that they are forthcoming fn generous and suffi
cient quantity.
And this was all accomplished two days ahead of the time that it was ex
pected it would be done, which but further emphasizes the fact that the voters
of the United States and the people wanted Wilson and Marshall and no
one else.
It Is a singular and striking testimonial of the high regard In which they
are held and the perfect trust that the people have in them and the Demo
cratic administration.
The nominations were made and the convention recessed at 11:56 o'clock
until 11 o'clock yesterday, when the resolutions committee presented the plat
form, after which the great convention adjourned sine die.
When John W. Westcott, attorney general of New Jersey, who had placed
Woodrow Wilson in nomination at the Daltimore convention, started for the
platform, an enthusiastic Jersey man slapped him on the back and said:
"Good luck to you, judge." Judge Westcott spoke slowly and his voice was
heard in every part of the hall. There were few interruptions until near the
close, when cries went up from different parts of the hall, "Name your man."
When he did name his man there was tremendous cheering and the hall in
stantly become one huge kaleidoscope. Pictures ql Woodrow Wilson burst
forth In all parts of the vast auditorium. One large portrait of the president
on a canvass which measured 20x30 feet was unrolled and hung from the
upper gallery behind the speaker's stand. Judge Westcott, perspiring freely
from his great effort, made his way slowly to his seat in the New Jersey
delegation and sat quietly watching the demonstration.
State standards were uprooted and an endless parade of delegates
' marched around the aisles encircling the beats of the delegates. Soon state
flags made their appearance. Georgia came forth with a big banner which
bore the legend, "Georgia Woodrow- Wilson Dixie's Gift to tho Nation."
After the state flags had been carried around the hall a number of times thpy
were massed on the speaker's stand while the crowd renewed its cheering.
The big brass band in the north gallery worked hard. It played every
thing it knew from "America" down to "Hail, Hail, the Gang's All Here" and
played over the tunes time and again.
There was more wild cheering when suffragists got into the thick of
things and mounted' the rostrum holding aloft yellow parasols.
The demonstration lasted forty-five minutes. The great spectacular
feature over, thousands in the galleries moved toward the exits, and during
the remainder of the session those parts of the Coliseum were almost empty.
"Arizona," called the hoarse-voiced clerk. "Arizona yields to Ohio," was
the response, and Judson Harmon, attorney general under Grover Cleveland,
and former governor of Ohio, elbowed his way to the speaker's stand. Mr.
Harmon In a brief speech seconded the nomination of President Wilson. Then
Arkansas yielded to Vlrgjnia and Governor Stuait also seconded the nom
ination. As the Virginian finished his speech a number of delegates clamored for
the floor, but the chair recognized Senator Hughes of New Jersey, who moved
that the rules be suspended and that Woodrow Wilson be nominated by ac
clamation. Ilefore Chairman James could put the motion Robert Emmett
Ilurke from Illinois, who was elected on an Independent tloket, opposed the
motion and asked for a roll call. The delegates, however, were Impatient and
Burke's motion was lost. A mighty shout shook the building when Chairman
James put the motion to name Mr. Wilson by acclamation. One solitary voice,
that of Burke's, was heard when the chair asked If there were any negative
votes and the crowd laughed.
"I hereby declare Woodrow Wilson the nominee of the Democratic party
for president of the United States by a vote of 1,091 to 1," said the chairman
as he brought down the gavel with a hard whack. There was more cheering,
but it quickly subsided when Senator James raised his hands for silence.
Governor Kern of Indiana was recognized, and In a single sentence pre
sented the name of Vice-President Marshall and before the delegates realized
what had occurred the rules were again suspended and Mr. Marshall was
acclaimed the vice-presidential nominee without the formality of a ballot.
Glynn Keynote Speech
With the Coliseum crowded to Its
utmost capacity with an audience
made up of the Democrats of the na
tion, ex-Gov. Martin H. Glynn of New
York delivered the keynote speech
Wednesday and carried his audience
from its feet by a speech which may
well be classed as one of tho great
est of modern political years. He
opened his speech with the declara
tion that no president since the Civil
war has had as crucial problems to
solve, and no president has displayed
a grasp more sure, a statesmanship
more profound, than has President
Wilson. Declaring that "American
ism and peace, preparedness and
.prosperity are the issues upon which
the Democratic party stands, and the
heart of Democracy swells with pride
that Is more than a pride of party, as
it halls the man who has asserted this
Americanism, assured this peace, ad
vocated this preparedness and pro
duced this prosperity," he predicted
the re-election of President Wilson.
Taking up our foreign relations that
has been called into emphatic promi
nence by the world-wide war, the
speaker , declared that "We have en
tered this hall as Democrats; we shall
deliberate as Americans." The
policy of neutrality, he argued, is as
truly American as the American Hag,
For 200 years neutrality was a theory;
America made it a fact. "It took
Washington and his successors eighty
years of endless negotiation to win
recognition of American neutrality.
And this eighty years of struggle wove
tho doctrine of neutrality so closely
Into the warp and woof of our national
life that to tear it out now would un
ravel the very threads of our exist
ence." By the records of history Mr.
Glynn maintained that if Washington
and Lincoln were right, President
Wilson Is right. The neutrality that
President Wilson stands for today was
advocated by Washington, by Hamil
ton, by Jefferson, and by Lincoln.
President and the Lusltania
By citing precedents Mr. Glynn
Justified and defended the course of
tho president In- the Lusltania and
similar Incidents. "In the face of this
record," he asked: "Do Republicans
realize that when they arraign the
policy of the president of the United
States today they arraign the policy
CRITICISED THE
PLATFORM
"The praises of this policy are not
written in the ruins of American
homes, not in the wreck of American
industries, not In the mourning of
American families; they are found in
the myriad evidences of prosperity
and plenty that make this a contented
land. From eery whirling spindle in
America, from every factory wheel
that turns, from every growing thing
that breathes its prayer of plenty to
the skies, fioru every quiet school,
from every crowded mart, from every
peaceful home goes up a song of
praise, a paen of thanksgiving to
hymn a nation's tribute to the states
manship that has brought these things
as pass."
The Satisfied and Dissatisfied
In answer to those who say that
President Wilson's policy does not
satisfy anyone, Mr. Glynn replies : "He
means that it does not satisfy those
who would map out a new and un
tried course for this nation to pursue,
but they forget it does satisfy those
who believe the United States should
live up to the principles it has pro
fessed for a century and more."
"This policy," Mr. Glynn continues,
"may not satisfy those who revel in
destruction and find pleasure In de
spair. It may not satisfy the fire
l eater or the swashbuckler. But it
does satisfy those who worship at the
altar of the God of Peace. It does
satisfy the mothers of the land at
whose hearth and fireside no Jingoistic
war has placed an empty chair. It
does satisfy the daughters of this land
from whom bluster and brag has sent
no loving brother to the dissolution of
tho grave. It does satisfy the fathers
can to stand up and assert his Amen- aside the ttnsel of party labels and theif thls land and tne sons ot this Iand
canisin. We must make the issues -o mummerv of nartv emblems. i who will fight for our flag, and die for
clear that every ballot box in the land
may become a monument to the loy
alty of American manhood.
"The citizens of this country must to crush partisanship, and rebuke , standards they uphold."
He Says That the Selection of Hughes
Is the Vicious Act of a Party On
Its Uppers, and Shows That Half
of the Legislation Which the Plat
form Demands Has Already Been
Enacted and the Rest Is Being Completed
PRESIDENT WOODROW WILSON
Patriotism Versus Partisanship ; our na? wnen ueason prunes me riue,
From the great nulsine heart of the when Honor dnws tne sword, when
nation will come a patriot command Justice breathes a blessing on the
stand behind their president because
his policies are right. They will stand
behind him because his policies axe
the policies which have brought the
nation a century of prosperous and
honored peace. They 'will stand be
hind him because they want thesr
policies continued, that prosperity pro
longed, that peace assured."
whatever is mean or blind. I "Fighting for every degree of in-
"That command will be heard by Jury," ho maintained, "would mean
the ploughman in his field, and by the peipetual war, and this is the policy
laborer at his bench. It will rich of our opponents, deny it how they
the merchant in his oftice and the will. It would give us a war abroad
lawyer at his desk. We would te each time the "fighting cock of the
false to ourselves, and recreant to European weather vane shifted with
those who sent us here if wo p-.-rmlt- the breeze. It would make America
ted any thought of partisan profit, the cockpit of the world. We would
any consideration of political a-!an- be so busy settling other people's
tage, to obscure our vision of the tre quarrels that we would have no time
raendous issues now before th-T peo-' to attend to our own business."
pie of the United States. We tints t i Preparedness of Peace
cast aside all that Is selfish, we must ' In his treatment of the Issue of
hold ourselves worthy of a nat'on's preparedness Mr. Glynn asserts that
confidence by offering only the best , the genius of this country is for peace,
of our intelligence, the flower of oui I ..We have bUut our greatness on the
patriotism toward the solutloi of what resources of nature and the peaceful
all men perceive to be a cnsli in the toU of our people. The ring of the
nation's affairs." anvi1( not the rattie of the saberi tne
In asking for an endorsement of tho Eong of the reaper, not the shriek of
president's peace policy, Mr. Glynn the soldier, the clatter of the shuttle,
said: not the crack of the rifle have won
"For two years the world has ueen ' us the peace we occupy In the coun
afire; the civilization that we krow i ells of the world,
has been torn by the mightiest trug- "We have been carried too close to
gle In Its history. Sparks from Europe's the rocks of war during the past two
conflagration might havo blazed in
our own skies, echoes of her strife
have sounded at our very doors. That '
fire still burns, that struggle still con-'
tinues, but thus far the United States '
has held the flame at bay; thus far it The Repubean, ,gnore the 0ld Sol
has saved Us people from partlclpat-i ., ,nA ., , th rh.
(Continued on Page Eight)
FORGOT OLD SOLDIERS
cago Convention
VICE-PRESIDENT MARSHALL
ing In the conflict.
The Paramount Issue
"What the people of the United Washington, D. C, June 13. The
States must determine through their J Republican platform adopted In Chi
suffrage, is whether the course the cag0 iast week, omitted for the first
country has pursued through this cru- time in sixty years all mention of the
Administration and Business clal Pid Is to be continued; 0jd soldiers and sailors' pension. Gen-
He pointed out that the promise ' whether the principles that have been eral I. R. Sherwood of Ohio, who is
made four years ago that a Demo- asserted as our national policy shall admittedly the pension expert of this
era tic administration would liberate
the nation from the chains of indus
trial tyranny has been carried out. He
Senator William Joel Stone, who
was chairman of the resolutions com
mittee at the St. Louis convention
this week, told concisely, Incisively
and decisively what he thought of
Hughes and the Republican platform
when he was Interviewed In that city
Tuesday forenoon. He called the Re
publican platform drafted In Chicago
a "remarkable fulmlnatlon," with one-
half the legislation It demanded al
ready enacted and the other half now
being worked out by the Democratic
party.
Senator Stone said that he consid
ered Mr. Hughes a man of ability and
character, but looked upon his nomi
nation while he was on the bench as
full of menace and danger.
A Vicious Party Act
"My objection to the nomination of
Mr. Hughes," said the senator, "lies
in the fact that I regard it as bad in
every way, even vicious, for a great
political party, htrd pressed and on
its uppers, to Invade the supreme
court of the United States and take
down from that bench one of Its Jus
tices to make him a party candidate
for a political office to meet and serve
a party exigency.
"The experiment is full of menace
and danger. Hereafter it is more than
probable that mon appointed to tho
supreme court will begin to regard it
not as honorable and the final goal
of their ambition, but as a stepping
stone to what they will, as Mr
Hughes does, regard as a political ad
vancement beyond the Judicial posi
tion they hold.
"In that view of things It will fol
low that the decisions of Judges of
that great tribunal will become moie
or less the subject of suspicion.
The People Will Surmise
"People will begin to surm.se
whether decisions on questions of
wide or general interest have behind
them some sinister political design.
"The tendency will be to undermine
public confidence in that great court
a thing that would be full of evil con
sequences if not disastrous.
"Some state constitutions, I am told,
contain provisions which make the
Judges of their supreme court Ineligi
ble to a political office during the
term for which they were elected or
appointed.
"I am Inclined to the opinion that
It would be wise to so amend the
constitution of the United States as
to make a Justice of the supreme court
Ineligible to any political office while
a member of that court or for a period
of five years following his retirement
or separation therefrom."
Teddy Sulks In His Tent
The benator criticised the Progres
sive platform and called attention to
the fact that it contains a declaration
that the Issue was "one of men," by
which, he said, the Progressives meant
Roosevelt. Now, he said, Roosevelt
"sulks In his tent" at Oyster Bay
while his loyal following waits uncer
tain and dissplrlted.
"Will he respond and lead them
singing 'Onward, Christian Soldier,"
concluded the senator, "or will he
shrink before the uplifted swords of
the old guard and thus leave his ready
and stalwart adherents victims of one
of the most pitiful and tragic betray
als ever recorded in American history?"
be indorsed or withdrawn. j anj rtany preceding congresses, dis-
"The president of the United States , covered the omission today. When
stands today where stood the men ho directed the attention of Republi-
eulogized tho federal reserve act andlwlo made America and who saved !cans to tho hiatus they were distinctly
America
If They Were Right, Wilson Right
"If Washington was right, If Jeffer
son was right, If Hamilton was right,
if Lincoln was right, then the presi
dent of the United States Is right
doubt and desnair to the promised today; if the Republican leaders are
land of prosperity and hope." right, then Lincoln was wrong and1 who are Interested In the subject
declared that tho "scholar-statesman,
whose rod has struck the golden rock
of America's resources, to set free the
wealth Imprisoned for half a century,
Is a Moses who has led America's
Industries "from the wilderness of
worried.
"The soul moves In the direction of
Its attention," said General Sherwood.
"I suppose the Republicans were not
attentive to the old soldiers."
There are about 400,000 old soldier
votes, with a larger number of sons
COL.
EVANS A COUSIN TO
HUGHES
St. Joseph has one citizen who is
a relative to tho Republican proposi
tion for president. Col. Thomas W
Evans of tho First National bank Is a
blood cousin of Justice Hughes.
Mr. and Mrs. Walter Wray and
Miss Ida Barton of Maryvllle, Mo.,
were week guosts of Mr. and Mrs
James Killlon, 1413 Main street.
t,.
