Say, have yon a farniihtd or m
tarnished room for rent? Adrer
tite it ia The Sun and let it bo
bringing you ia lomelhiag.
We want good reliable
Agents in every city and
town in the country. Write
us for terras.
VOLUME VIII. NUMBEll 42.
KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI, SATURDAY, JUNE 17, 1J1.
PKICE, 6c
Hughes and Fairbanks Will Win. Line Up Boys
wxtn
A Popular Chaplain
CHAPLAIN OSCAR J. W. SCOTT,
25TH INFANTRY, RELIEVED
FROM DUTY WITH THAT
REGIMENT.
NATIONAL NEGRO BUSINESS
LEAGUE OTJt GUESTS.
Many expressions of deep regret Is
being heard on the part of officers
and enlisted men of the Twenty-fifth
Infantry, on account of the fact that
Chaplain Oscar J. W. Scott, 25th In
fantry, has completed his tour of duty
with tho regiment, on. foreign service,
and has been ordered back to tho
United States (tho mainland) for as
signment to one of the colored regi
ments .stationed on the Mexican bor
der. Chaplain Scott is populaar with
both tho official and the enlisted per
sonnel of te regiment and they re
gret to seo him leave.
Tho chaplain has gone beyond the
ordinary bounds of his office .and has
interested himself in every phase of
tho regimental Hfo where he could be
of influence in directing tho men to
strong and manly character; he has
taken a, vital interest in clean athlet
ilp sports and was always one of the
best rooter at the Important base
ball games; he has been the inspira
tion of many a young man's determi
nation to improve his mental faculties
while a soldier in the army, and he
has conducted with marked success
a post school for the enlisted men' of
the regiment; he has built up a splen
did regimental library, having soli
cited books In various parts of the
country for this purpose; a strong
literary society which bears his name
is ono of the products of his labors.
Tho Sunday night and mid-week meet
ings conducted by Chaplain Scott are
largely attended, sometimes there is
not standing room at the Sunday
night meetings, and It must be borne
in mind that enlisted men are not
compelled to attend church In the
army. One of the institutions "which
Chaplain Scott will leave behind him
and for which the children of the reg
iment will always be especially grate
ful to him is the annual Christmas
tree, for all the regiment. It is to be
hoped that this celebration will be
continued by Chaplain Scott's succes
sor. Another thing for which the men
of the Twenty-fifth will always re
member the .chaplain, Is that he .was
ever on the alert to procure ever'
public man of world fame, who came
within the vicinity of the regiment,
to speak to the men of tho regiment.
He was generally successful. Such
men as Dan Crawford, tho great mis
sionary to Africa, Dr. Francis E.
Clark, of the World's Christian En
deavor Society; Dr. Baker, leader of
tho anti-saloon movementn in Ameri
ca; Brown and Curry, tho great evan
gelists; Bishops of the church; states
men and other dignitaries have upok
en to the men of tho regiment upon
the solicitation of Chaplain Scott.
Chaplain Oscar J. W. Scott has
been an officer of the army since
April, 1907. He was appointed a
chaplain and flr3t lieutenant of the
25th Infantry in that year aand was
promoted to his captaincy in April,
1914. It is believed that the chaplain
will be promoted to the grade of ma
jor after he has served the requtmf
time, 10 years, as a line officer. A
number of hU fellow officers believe
him to bo worthy of distinction for
exceptional efficiency.
Chaplain Oscar J. W. Scott was
born at Gallipolls, Ohio, on July 31,
1887. He was privileged to attend
school throughout his Inlldhood, and
later entered Ohio Wosleyan Univer
sity, from which ha graduated, with'
highest honors in oratory and the de
grees A, B. and A. M.; to these Drew
Seminary added that of B. D.; the
University of Denver contributed B."
O, and S. T. B., and Payne Theolog
ical Seminary gave the crowning one
of D. D.
Tho entire ministry of Dr. Scott has
been maked by singular ability and
unceasing, labor, and the fact that ho
pastored some, of the largest churches
of bis denomination, including the
great Metfpp'qlitan church of' Wash
ington, D.,fj.t evidences the confidence
felt by high' church authority in his
power to preach' and to direct the af
fairs of large, congregations.
.Mrs. Ne$te foindexfer Scott, ,the
charming wife of Chaplain Scot't, is
an accomplished musician. She was
formerly an Instructor in music at tho
Ohio institution for the blind. She
has been of wonderful assistance to
her husband ln, taking charge of the
music In church' and literary clubs,
and at other public' meetings. Mrs.
Scott wasbprn at Columbus, ,Ohio,
and is a granddaughter .of the great
old Dr. I'.oinfiexter", known through
out Ohio as a leader in religious
thought during his long and useful
life. Chaplain and Mrs. Scott have
been blossed with threo interesting
children, Masters Albert and James
and Miss Ruth., Albert is now a stu
dent at the Columbus high school,
Columbus, 'Ohio.
The enlisted men of the 25tn In
fantry and their wives tendered a re
ception tp Chaplain and Mrs. Scott,
at wmcn tug olllwmg program, was
rendered;
Mrs. Maggie D. Mclnham Reynolds
made a very pretty speech in pre
senting to Mrs.. Scott a beautiful tiara
necklace,, set with large, rare Jades,
which was present from thp men of
tho regiment Tho refreshments were
eriioyed by all.
(Continued from last week's Sun.)
In thft last two issues of this pa
per we have outlined plans for the
entertainment of our Guest. """We
are receiving loners irom an sccm
tions of tho country inquiring I
about Kimsns City. Washington, I
D. C, sends" word that they arej
coming in two special cars. '
Baltimore, Philadelphia Jind t
Boston are- planning on sending
large delegations, Oklahoma dele-1
gates are arranging to make tho ,
trip in automobiles, forty cars,
have already joined the party.
Our committees and collectors arc ,
hard at work. "We need more
workers on our committees. Wo
meet every Thursday night at the
Paseo Y. M. C. A. Mr. Emmctt J.
Scott, National Secretary, is mak-,
ing up his program and wants the
names of men and women in this i
section of the country who havci
made signal success in some par
ticular line of business and who
would reflect credit upon tho or
ganization by having them invited
to appear on the program. Aliy
one knowing of such persons will
do us a favor by sending their
names to F. J. Weaver, 1510 Jhast
18th street.
The Local League will hold a
big Sunday night meeting Sun
day, Ju,nc IS, at Rev. Beckham's
church, in Independence, Mo. We
want 100 League members and
friends to go down with us and
help encourage our neighbors.
NEGRO BUSINESS LEAGUE OF
GREATER KANSAS CITY.
(Continued in next week's issue.)
The Famous Blind Boone Concert Company
Will be heard in Concert
at
Second Baptist Church
Thursday, June 22,
8:30 P. M.
ClosingFriday. Evening,
Jane 23d, at
Centennial M. E. Church
19th and Woodland Ave.
BLIND BOONE.
JOHN LANGE, Manager.
! A MAGNIFICENT BANQUET.
I -3
One. of the most delightful affairs
I the editor has ever attended was the
'banquet given last week In Chicago
I by tho principal representatives In or
j flclal life among the colored people of
! Chicago and their wives on Thursday,
June 8, at the Eighth Regiment Ar
mory, 35th and Forest avenue. Tho
menu was as follows:
Cream of Tomato.
Bread sticks.
Salted almonds. Radishes. Olives.
White fish In cream.
Saratoga chips.
, Porterhouse roll.
i Roast young chicken.
1 Butter rolls.
'New potatoes. Green peas.
Combination salad.
Cheese straws.
Harlequin ice cream,
"Lord, who shall abide in thy
tabernacle? Who shall dwell in
thy holy hill? He that walketh
uprightly and worketh righteous-
ness and speaketh the truth in his
heart. He that backblteth not
Miss Clara V. Lynden was tho guest
of honor at a tea party given 'by
Miss Corrlne Collins at her home,
1606 East 12th street, Saturday even
ing, June 10.' Other ' guests were:
Misses Bertha Rosa.Carter, Chris-
with his tongue nor doeth evil to j tine Cowdcn, Elizabeth1 ; Angel, Rober-
his neighbor nor taketh us a re- ta Green, Louise. Garrett, Fannie
proach against his neighbor" ( Reeve, ' Messrs. Harold Jones, John
Psalm 15:102. Jefferson, Clifford Smith, William
l gmitQ
CENTENNIAL M. E. CHURCH.
THE WEEPING JEW.
(By Chas. A. Starks.)
His mind went back to old IsracL
He stood again by the waters of
Babylon. He heard the harp of his
fathers, and felt the pang of his peo
ple's suffering. The conquest of the
Ancient passed before him. Again be
saw his people passing the Red Sea's
partln waters. Ho" saw glory In the
plllard cloud and Jehovah bckonlng,
the God of Abraham, Jacob's God; he
saw the covenant, the law and Moses
the giver. Old Pharoah the King ho
beheld once more, stern and oppres
sive. He saw Joseph the week, the
interceptor, his race salvator, tho In
termediary. The God influenced man,
all these He saw and why? Why
conjured up this Ancient of history?
Alas! It was only a phonograph play
ing a Hebrew song: "Ell niolci
rachmlm" (song to the dead). The
Impassioned plea was wondcrfuL
Assorted cake Cream nattips i touching, tho we knew not tho lan-
Roquefort cheese. j sunge of Hebrew, but the soul and
Bent Wafer crackers. passion we understood. We heard the
Cafe Nolr. Pommery Sec. cry ot eart even as the Jew who was
1 ' passing and stopped, who wept as he
i ui. rranKiin a. uenmson outda
ted as toastmaster and the following
i toasts were given :
j "The Ladles" Hon. C. W. Ander
1 son, New York.
"Friends" Hon. Henry Lincoln
Johnson of Georgia.
An eloquent response was given by
thot back, looked back on days past,
way yonder in the receding years
and wept.
SECOND BAPTIST CHURCH.
Tho Senior BB. Y. P. U. will meet
at 6:30 p. m. and the topic will bo dis
cussed by Mrs. Desmon, opened by
Miss Mazle Diggs Last Sunday Mr.
H. B. Moore made a fine talk on
"Tho Boy" at the Junior B. Y. P. U
Miss Grace Woodson will read a pa-
"KING" BILLY HAS GUESTS.
Billy King, known in the theatrical
world as "King" Billy, and who with
his family has moved in his new
home, 3219 South Park avenue, has
as his" guests. Hon. Nelson Crews,
Hon. Clarence Houston and Hon. Fred
Dabney. These threo well known pol
iticians are from Kansas City, Mo.,
and attended all the social functions
given by the citizens' committee of
100 and tho Appomatox Club. Mr.
King .was honored, one evening by
having his friends attend the Grand
Theatre, in a box party. It is said that
the theatrical magnate now has one
of the most handsomely furnished
homes In the "Windy Ciity." Begin
ning with n6xt week Miss Theresa
Burroughs will live with Mr. and Mrs.
"Billy" King. Indications aro that
King and company will be here until
late in October. He will entertain the
Masons during their stay this sum
mer. Defender. -
LOS ANGELES, CAL.
, (By Mrs. A. E. Walker.)
Tho Masonic Grand Lodge and East
ern Star Chapter Just closed a very
pleasant and Interesting session , in
the city June 5 to 8 inclusive. At 10
a. m., June 5th, a grand parade thru
tho principal streets of the city by
Grand Lodge officers and delegates,
the local lodges acting as escorts,' was
held. The parade was headed by six
police officers, whose appearance,
gave much credit to the race. The
band of this city was at its best and
filled the ajr with its sweet strains
of music as the.pararde headed its
way to labor temple, where the in
formal opening Was held. Dr. McWil
lllams represented tho mayor, Chas.
E. Sebastian, extending to the visitors
a hearty welcome and to the G. M.
the keys of the city. Dr. McWllllams'
speech was masterly; tho response
by Brother T. A. Harris was full ot
welcome. Tho program was beauti
fully carried out with one exception,
and that was no mention was made of
the wives, daughters, widows and sis
ters who assembled at the samo time
in their 35th annual session. No
mention was mado of them during the
opening and no place accorded them
on tho program. The Grand Chapter
O. E. S. convened promptly at 2 p. m.
with W. G. M. Sister Sadie Alexander
and W. G. P. Brother James Wilson
on the throne. Fifteen Chapters were
represented, and the leport of the
Grand Secretary and Treasurer show
ed a membership of 500, deaths dur
ing the year 7, and cash balance
J46490. Voting strength, of the Grand
Chapter 93. Tb.e 35th communication
closed by singing, "God Be With You
Till We Meet Again"; to meet lnj3aq
ramento the 1st jlonday In June, 1917,
. ;..The Federated Clubs ot Colored
Southern Division held their .Ex
change at Wesjcy Chapel M. E.
church June 5 to tf, Tho Division is
under the management of Mrs. Hat
tie Baldwin, a former MIMssourl girl,
wliose efforts put forth in this work
will.long remain fresh In the minds
of all who witnessed tho beautiful art
work on exhibit. Special mention
must be made of the combination
bookcaso, library table and electrlo
lamp made by ono of our race boys
in the city schools, Leon Hefflin, age
18, and who is excelled by few in his
line of workmanship.
Mr. Ben Simpson of Warrensburg,
Mo., and his three daughters, Ethel,
Edna and Carrio, were the, guests of
Mrs. W, H. Pickett, 2820 Oeuessee,
who returned overland in 'their car
wth them, but Wo now at. 'home, aud
report a fine trip.
Rev. Davis preached a splendid ser
mon nn "KplflRhnpss" n rlplleht tn nil
who heard it. One addition to tho uuv- UT- J- are or -ntcago.
church. Children's Day was observed ; The service was by Smiley and was
with a fine program in the evening, , aU ,hat the name Implied in Chicago
under the management of C. A. War- catering.
rick and Miss Wheeler. The Sunday The following gentlemen and their , per on "The Girl" next Sunday The
school surprised Miss Wheeler with a , wives were the hosts: 1 services Sunday were up to the usual
purso for her faithfulness to the ! Franklin A. Denlson, colonel 8th in-' blgh standard. The pastor. Dr. Bacote,
school. fantry, Illinois National Guard; Robt. dellvere da grand sermon to a large
j R. Jackson, member of Illinois Gener-1 congregation. The Sunday School
' ui iisHeiuuiy, .sru uisirici; sneaariCK i unu uue bcsiuii iiiiu ueju lis eiec
B. Turner, member of Illinois General tion of officers. Mr. Edw. Rosa is
Assembly, 1st district; Oscar De
Priest, member of City Council, City
I of Chicago; Edward H. Wright, assist
ant corporation counsel, City of Chi
cago; Louis B. Anderson, assistant
i corporation counsel, City of Chicago;
Jerry A. Brumfleld, assistant city at
'torney, City, of Chicago; William F.
1 Childs, lieutenant of Police, City of
i Chicago; Archibald J. Carey, chief in
! vestigator of law claims, corporation
'.counsel's office; Alonzo J. Bowling,
President. The evening worship was
unusually interesting by having a
sermon, a wedding and baptizing bo
fore a large congregation. There were
20 additions.
HELENA, MONTANA.
Rev. Mickens, D. D., of Seattle stop
ped over here enroute from tho Gen
eral Conference in Philadelphia and
preached two inspiring sermons Sun-
j member of board of censors, City of j day morning and evening to largo au-
! Chicago,
The guests were:
J. C. Napier, Nashville, Tenn., ex
registrar of the treasury.
W. C. Scott of Philadelphia, Pa.
James A. Cobb, assistant attorney
general of District of Columbia,
uiences....'ine Chilarens' Day pro
, gram was beautifully carried out Sun
, day, as Mrs. C. C Matthews, snperin
j tendent, conducted it. The church
'was decorated very artistically. Rev.
II. S. Wilson, pastor. . ..The Busy Beo
Club will give a social Thursday ove-
Hon. Chas. Cottrell of Ohio, former 1 nlns at Crew's HnU- A beautiful silk
collector of customs in Hayti. i q"ut wm De oisposeu ot to me one
Nelson C. Crews, Kansas City, edl-. hoIdin5 the lucky ticket. Mrs. Cora
tor the Kansas City Sun. Johnson, president. .. .The 100th an-
W. C. Hueston, Kansas City, dele-1 nlversary of the A. M. E. church was
iiem cuuuuj, aim sungs, reciuiuuua,
essays and piano selections were ren
dered by Helena's best talent.... A
j gate at large to National Convention,
i Hon. James A. Page, Pittsburgh, Pa
and Mrs. Goodwin, Columbia,
Dr.
g p ' ! banquet will be given to the boys and
i R. W. Westbury, delegate, Sumner, EirIs wno are. graduates of this year
g c at Germania Hall. Miss C. V. Ford
I. W. Cozart, New Jersey. !and Mlss Ruth HoPer. '15 gradnates,
, Chas. W. Anderson, ex-collector of will be honored guests. Miss Olga
customs, collector of revenue. 1 York' Mis8 Lena Dorsey aml JnIIan
Col. Henry Lincoln Johnson of Geor
! gia, ex-recorder of deeds, District of
Columbia.
1 Joseph L. Jones of Cincinnati, su
premo worthy counsellor Court of Ca
lanthe. ! Emraett J. Scott, secretary Tuske
' gee Institute.
Hon. S. W. Green, New Orleans, si'
1 preme chancellor K. of P.
W. T. Francis of St. Paul, Minn., at
toreny at law.
Dr. Furniss of Indianapolis, Ind.
MAJOR R. R. JACKSON.
Three Time member of the Illinois Lefllslatqre from the city of Chicago; Major of tho Eighth Regiment
Illinois National Guard and Major-General of the Uniform Rank Knights of Pythias, the greatest seml-mllltary
organization among Negroes In America, who will attend the National Negro Business League in this city next
August. v
ST. JOSEPH, MO.
Mr. Geo. Walker is verjsick at this
writing. Mrs. Walker's,, .brother and
wife are at his bedside.,. v-Little Geo.
Watklns is very sick.,.. Children's
Day at the A. M. E. Church -was a"
splendid success v,..Mr.,, Claud McOee
and. Miss Vlcorla Flynn were married
June 8.... The body of Lewis Wil
liams, .25 years of age, who was
drowned in the Missouri river at Nodo
way, was found yesterday by railroad
workman at a point north of tho water
works. His home was at Argenta,
Ark... '.Tho Knights and Daughters of
Tabor will hold their annual sermon
at the Frances Street Baptist Church,
Sunday, the 18th. Rev. Prince will of
ficiate.... Miss Carrlger and Mr, Coy.
Williams were married on tho 6th, of
June.... Miss Gladys Carrion -will re
turn homo from School at Nashville,
Tenn., this week...,Mlsa Lottie
White -will return homo from school
soon.,.. Mrs. Frank Samargross Is on
the sick yst at this writing.. wMrs.
John Gutbrlo is on the sick list....
Mrs. Geo. Wolton ia 111.
TEN REASONS WHY THE N. N.
L. SHOULD BE WELCOMED.
B.
, (Continued.)
No. 9.
One: ol the createst reasons why we
should welcome Ihe League Is, it will
serve as an "eye opener" to those that
are really interested In the progress
of the race and the entertainment of
the Business League and tho pretend
er, Wo iiavo a host of men and wo
men that claim to be race lovers and
are recognized leaders, they desire
prominent recognition whenever hon
ors are to be conferred and they pos
sess ability to make oratorical
speeches that will almost mako the
hair stand, and one might be led to
believe that such persons had given
time, talent and finance for the main
tenance of Buch a worthy organization
as the League, but when It comes to
putting up the cash and sacrificing a
little time to make, tho entertainment
a success, he Is not In It Yet when
the affair Is over, and people are
praising .tha efforts ot those that la-
bored, be comes up to claim his. share,
thus reminding us of the old fellow
that permitted his wife to kill the
bear and when the scramble was over
and the dust had cleared away, he
stood by and made his, boast "Look
what we've done."
The ones tha,t have, the burden at
heart are watching such movements
and are hoping to be able to report
the facts relative to the situation and
see that honor is given to whom hon
or is due. Our eyes are open and we
are looking to see every person 'that
possesses a minimum of race pride
fall in line and shoulder his part of
the responsibility.
THE LATE MORTON J. HARRIS
Mr. Harris was born in Wayside,
,Va., moved and received his early
j training In Springfield, Mo.; he was a
, teacher In the public school for two
! years, and" then he spent two years
in city assessor's office in Kansas
City, Mo. Mr. Harris began his news
paper career, "The Messenger"; his
brother Preston was his business
partner. Later he bought out "Tho
Signal" and merged the two papers
into one and ran it for seven years.
During this time he was in the public
eye he was quite an orator. The
Republican central committee em
ployed him to travel through the
state and lecture. He rendered great
assistance In the election of former
President Taft, and reclved splendid
aid from him. Mr. Harris moved
to Pueblo and was the foundeT of the
Colorado Industrial Institute, 1910.
Ho served as a secret detective for
the Colorado and Southern two
years. He was editor of "The1 Mega
phone" for past 18 months. He was
not able to do' what he desired to
do on account of his health. He
succeeded In keeping the paper alive.
Mr. Harris was a deacon of the Beth
lehem Baptist church for 'the'vpast
five years and a consistent Christian
man. Pueblo, Col., Megaphone.
Lee are 1916 graduates Mrs. Jcn-
' nie Seals arrived in Helena from To-
peka, Kas., Thursday quite sick. She
is now Improving In health, due to the
bracing air. She is stopping at Mm
Nora Walker's, and would like to
meet all old friends. .. .Rev. C. N.
Douglass will arrive in Helena some
time this week enroute home from the
Conference In Philadelphia, after vis
iting his daughter in Chicago a few
days.... Mr. and Mrs. Geo. Lee, Jr.,
will leave soon for Topeka, Kas., her
former home. . . .Mrs. John Carpenter,
sister of Mrs. York and Baker, will
arrive here from Chicago, 111., with,
her two daughters, who have just fin
ished high school, and the smaller
daughters, to spend the summer. Sha
is a former Helena girl and was Miss
Tipple Johnson beforo her marriage-. .
..Arthur Ford, a graduate of Bozo
man, 1916, will arrive home soon on a
short leave with his parents, Mr. and
Mrs. Nath. Ford, later, will leave for
South America to take up his work
as a civil engineer.... Mrs. Sergeant
Smith left last week for Spokane,
Wash., on a definite visit with Mrs.
Nicholson Bonds, formerly of Helena
....The Masonic Lodge No. 101 will
hold its annual sermon Sunday, Joe
18, at the A. M. E. church. .. .Mrs. J.
T. Knaff Is contemplating driving Ws
motor car through Montana and Wyoming.
LINCOLN, NEBR.
Last Saturday night, June 10, the
waiters of the Hotel Jefferspn Burpris-
ed their head waiter, Mr. Samuel F,
Price, wljh a birthday party at his
Cheapest In town. All plant S
cents a dozen. Cabbage, tomatoes,
beets, head lettuce, Southern Collards,
sweet potatoes and fresh vegetables
cheap. ' Big batket mustard 5 cent.
Spring onions 5 cents dozen, radlshe
S cents dozen, etc. Truck garden 39,14
East 14th st. Take 12th street car.
VEGETABLE PLANTS FOR SALeU residence, 1327 Woodland avenue. Mr.
fAlvln Jordan m-eslded at tho nlnnn
Alvln Jordan presided at the piano
and each member of the party toasted
the guest of honor with a happy little
speech. The boys presented Mr, Prlco
with a handsome Masonic charm, and
the presentation speech was made by
Mr. Lee Hughes. Mr. Price was ex
tremely gratified with this token of
appreciation, and wishes to thank the
party, ono and all, for their kindness.
(By W. W. Mosely.)
Mrs. !. M. Williams went to Kan:
sas City, Mo., last Sunday, on ac
count of an aunt being there.... Tho'
A. M. E. Church Is belnjr remodeled
. .Lebanon Lodge No, 126 A. F. it
A- M, elected the following named of
ficers for the ensuing year: R, n.
Young, W. M.r P. L. Moore, S. W.:
T. T, McWllllams, J.W.; J. L. Wright,
Treas.; I. B. Smith, Secy.: Geo. B.
Bvans, Chaplain; L. R. Bailey, Tyler
..au jonn-s Day ceiobratlon will bo
held In the Third Christian Church,
sunoay, June 25th at 3:00 p. m. Rev.
J. C. C. Owens of 'Kansas City wffl
deliver a sermon followed by other
numbers...i Miss Nellie O. Kelles and
Mr. Geov Li Mnston were quietly mar
ried this week.
St. Luke's A. M. E. church, Rer.
McCormlck, pastor, will give on en
tertainment Friday, June 23, and wH
hold, a rally Sunday the 2Ctb. The pub
lic Is Invited.
