nn
VOL. XX NO. 80.
BAIUtE, VERMONT, SATURDAY, JUNE 17, 1916.
ritlCE, ONE c-CENT.
T H E BARRE DAI LY
IMES
FRENCH PRICK
GERMAN LINE
IN VOSGES
Infantry Penetrated Both
First and Second Lines
East of Thann on the Vos
ges Front in Night Attack
and Brought Away Num
ber of Prisoners, So Paris
Reports
CUT AND BRUISED.
When His Automobile Went Over Bank
Near Bridge. I
St. Albans, June 17. Dclor Deslaurier
suffered a few cuts and bruises when th
automobile which he was driving went
over the embankment near the dry
bridge, so-called, on the Georgia roa
Thursday evening. With Mr. Deslaurie
were his wife and child, but they es
caped injury. The accident is said to
have been caused by the earth giving
away as the car turned out to meet
R. Waugh's machine. The windshield
of the car which went down the bank
was broken and one of the mudguards
bent.
MONTPELIER
.VIOLENT BOMBARD
MENT BEFORE ATTACK
French Positions at Avo-
court Were Attacked by
Germans with Hand Gren
ades, and There Was In
tense Bombardment of
Dead Man's Hill
. Paris, June 17. In the course of last
Iright, troops attacked French positions
at Avoeourt with grenades, says an offi
cial statement from the war department.
In the region of Le Mort Homme there
was intense bombardment.
In the Vosges, after a violent bombard
ment of hill 425, to the east of Thann,
French infantry, the statement adds,
penetrated first and second Gernian linos
and brought ba.ek a number of German
prisoners.
"ART" SMITH FALLS
300 FEET IN JAPAN
American Aviator's Right Leg Is Brok
en Is Taken Unconscious from
Wreckage of Machine.
Sapporo, Japan, June 17. Arthur
Smith, an American aviator, fell from a
height of 600 feet while giving an exhibi
tion flight here yesterday afternoon. The
bviator's right leg was broken and he
was taken from the demolished machine
unconscious. The accident is believed to
have-been due to a defective motor.
TALK OF THE TOWN
H. Woods rd of Gibbon, N. H., has arrived
In the city and will visit friends for sev
eral davs.
Mrs. W. D. Barr of West Danville re
turned to her home to-day, after visit
ing friends in the city.
Will .St. John, who has been visit
ing his brother, Fred St. John, in Man
Chester, N. H., for the past few days,
returned to his home last evening.
Joseph Conant of Hardwick was among
the visitors in the city yesterday, pur
chasing an automobile and driving back
last evening,
v Mrs. Thomas Cave, jr., and daughters,
(Doris and Corinne. went yesterday to Wa
it erbury, where they will spend a few
jdays with friends.
Among those who contributed flowers
at the funeral of Charles Loso, who were
;not mentioned in the columns of The
i Times was Jones Brothers.
Among the visitors in the city yes
terday were: Harry Olmstead of Wil
Jiamstown, Clark Hall ' of North Ran
dolph and Mrs. Margaret Sprague of
Brookficld.
A conference over the telephone this
morning between the managements of
the Barre A, C. and the Center Rutland
team resulted in the postponement of
the game which was to have been plaved
in this city to-day. If the fain abates,
the Barre team will go to Rutland to
morrow. L. K. Hitchcock of Springfield, Mass.,
who has been visitinj? his sister, Mrs.
O. W. Ball, of 105 Hill street for the
past few days, returned this morning
to bis home. Mrs. Abbie M. Pierce, who
has also been a visitor at Mrs. Ball's,
will remain a few days longer before re
turning to her home in Lenox, Mass.
Dr. and Mrs. Curtis H. Kent of Los
Angeles. Gal., former residents of Barre.
arrived in the city last evening and are
passing, several days at the home of
Sir. and Mrs. Fred c" Eaton of Hill street.
They expect to spend several weeks in and
lHMit Barre. being part of the time in
Northtield. They left Barre eight years
a go.
In probate court to-day Stedman
Wheeler of Wsterbury was appointed
administrator, de bonis non, of the estate
of VVillard J. Boyce, in place of Earle A
Boyee, resigned. . ..
The first advance car of Barnum
Baileys circus, .which appears on Lang
don meadow three weeks from to-day
July 8, arrived in the city this morning
and a squad of bill posters were busily
engaged in placing their advertising in
prominent places.'
Roy Getman returned yesterday from
uigngate rprings, where he passed ten
day a at the Iracy Lamp.
Miss Helen Harlow left yesterday aft
ernoon for Northampton, Mass., to at
tend commencement at Smith college.
The Vermont Automobile club is dis
tributing through Secretary Lester H,
Greene ot Montpelier,' the ninth year
book prepared from data gathered in the
omee of the secretary of state. The book
contains the registration number of all
cars owned in the state in numerical or
der, also the horse-power and make of
the machine and if the owner is a mem
ber of the club it is shwn by a letter.
The book includes a list of all cars reg
istered up to. the including June 10 and
the figures run as high as 15,000, cars
being registered at the rate of fifty a
day. Automobile laws and information
regarding Vermont scenery are among
other features of. the interesting and
valuable little booket.
Mrs. F. L. Eaton of Chicago, who has
been making an extended visit with rel
atives in the city, left last evening for
Xorthampton, Mass., to attend Smith
college commencement.
Mrs. William MoCaskill of Main street
returned yesterday afternoon from Cas
tleton, where she went Wednesday with
relatives to attend the graduating exer
cises from the normal1 school.
C. S. Burr, who has been making a
visit in the city with relatives, returned
yesterday to his home in Lebanon, X. H.
A contest between the baseball team
recently organized and the Y. M. C. A.
team will b nlaved at 3:30 o'clock this
afternoon on Seminary campus, provid-Jr
ing the weather permit.
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Ferrin went this
forenoon to Lake Mansfield, where they
will spend a week or ten days.
Mrs. J. A. DeBoer went this forenoon
to Burlington for a brief visit.
Holden Farrar, Chandler Brown, Paul
DeBoer and Fred L. Laird, jr., students
at Dartmouth college, have arrived in the
city to spend the summer.
The reception and bill given in city
hall auditorium last evening by the
Washington County Grammar School
Alumni association to the graduating
class of the high school, brought to a
close the commencement week exercises.
Carroll's orchestra furnished music.
Brainard Adams, a member of the high
school teaching force during the year
just closed, has resigned and will be
employed during the summer in the office
of the .National Life Insurance Co.
C. A. Kennedy, Maurice Dewey and
Richard Cruickshank have returned from
Boston, where they attended the annual
convention of the Hardware 'Dealers' as
sociation.
37 MEN
WENT
DOWN
British Destroyer Eden Was
Sunk in the English Chan
nel Last Night in a Colli
sion, According to the
British Press Bureau's
Report
THREE OFFICERS
ARE MISSING
The Eden Carried a Crew of
70 Men and Displaced 555
Tons She Had a Speed of
26 Knots and Was Armed
With Four 3-Inch Guns
London, June 17.- The British destroy
er Eden waa sunk in the English channel
list night after collision, according to
the announcement of the official press bu
reau. Thirty-one members of the crew
were saved. Three of her officers are
missing.
The Eden displaced 655 tons and car
ried crew of "0 men. She was built in
1903 and had a speed of 20 knots. The
den carried four three-inch guns and
as equipped with two 18-inch toroedo
tubes.
MANY DIPLOMAS GIVEN.
ROYAL ARCH MASONS.
AMERICANS
CROSS LINE
Held Annual Meeting, with Election, in
Burlington.
Burlington, June 17. Masonic week
came to a conclusion early yesterday
afternoon with the meeting of the Grand
Ohapeter of Royal Arch Masons of the
lw Hn rLuf'11 U- S. Consul Philip C. Hanna
priest. I'ast Grand High Priest David r
a. J'.uiott oi urute Kiver Junction was at iViOniereV, lVieXlCO,
uib MiniamuK uiuircr una ri. ii. noss oi i T l'
Rutland presented the iewel to the retir- . KetUmS
ing grand high priest, Harr J. Stannard
of Barton.
The officers elected were these: James
B. Roberts of Burlington, grand high xr AO A PPOMP A "MTFTi
priests Georae X. Tilden of Barre. den- WAb AlAAJJUrAIM 1jU
uty grand high priest; William H. . BY SIX OTHERS
isrewster or juiddieoury, grand king: V.
A. Lang of Montpelier, grand scribe; C.
W. Wlutconib of Proctors villa, grand
grand secretary; Christie B. Crowell of Threats Said to Have Been
Brattleboro, grand captain of the host; Mario Acrnincf Ppr
Allen D. Ball of Ludlow, irrand principal lViaae Against rer
sojourner; George if. Koot of Newport, chinrr Q Armv
frmnrl roval arch rflntain Arehia fi If nr. I "
o r ..-. ...
nman of Middlebury, grand master of
the third veil; Roger S. Pike of Rutland,
errand mneter nf tha aeoonri vail . Rinh.
ard J. Fitzgerald, grand master of the Laredo Tex., June 17. Philip C. Han
first veil: the Kev. Alfred E. W son of .c " y
Bellows Falls. BTand ehanlain: tenure "rey, nd OIe of the two remaining
I. Whitnev of Bellows Falls, trrand lee- American consuls in Mexico, accompanied
turer. FHtrar H. Martin nt Rnriinirton. by half a dozen other Americans, arrived
or.n.t .enior afAward TVank A Po of "ere toaay. Mr. fiAitna was reticent
Vf.rrrniM. trvand nnmr iisu'r t VAvn win uh :i tn inn vimv
B. Clift of Fair Haven, grand sentinel; ,Pons, tMt an7 American military
Albert Killam of Burlinirton. erand ty-I"lemP5 w-' cross tne ruo uranae in me
jer INeuvo Ijaredo district. in pursuit of ban
The new district deputy grand 1
nript int niatrinf. Vn 1 Honrrra
Mitohell of. St. Albans: No. 2. Edwin Bjuni,nPachabIe,l''tborit3r- Carranza troops
Clift of Fair Haven; No. 3, Charles W. ln vo rareao, it is s,aia, nave in
McMillan of Barre: No. 4. Ravmond A. etruct ions to put up an energetic fight
Paari Kt .fn.K.,, . v a vr.A a to resist any possible crossing into Mex-
Carr of iite Rivrr Junction; No. 6, of an American force, regardless of
WHAT LIES AT BOTTOM
OF CITY PROGRESS
WILSONMSHES
RrPECTED
Democratic Platform Was
Built Just as He Desired
to Have It . '
William W. Sawyer of Bellows Falls;
the cause.
Prof. A. L. Smith of Dartmouth College
' Says That the Greatest Essential
Is Men Men with Vision,
Initiative and Brains.
Basic principles in successful civic un
derta kings were interestingly discussed
at a meeting of the Barre Board of Trade
in Manufacturers , hall last evening,
Prof. A. L. Smith of Dartmouth college,
Hanover, N. H., was the principal speak
er, but the meeting, which was a repre
sentative assembly of Barre's business CTTTTITP A T T5T A 'NTT.'
and professional men. partook of the ,. P U iAUiV IjAJN K
ture of an open forum and . number or CAUSED A ROW
mierepiing pnaseg oi noaru oi irauo ma.
were informally considered. Nearly 60
men were present and atter frot. mitn
hnA (rvti.ltiAfl liia fjillt nnnortnnitiea
were grasped to interrogate the speaker
Suffradsts Think Thev Got
i T A I. -e ;i I
and civic advancement. More Concessions Than
D. J. Morse presided hnd before the
speaker of the evening was introduced
A. P. Abbott outlined one of the advance
ment plans that the Board of Trade ex
pects to put into execution In the near
future. The plan was warmly received
on all aides and the indications are that
from Republicans
St. Louis, June 17. The Democratie
national convention finished its work
w i t,!"5'L nn..AyMrday the party plat-
of Trade's activities and read excerpts form exact'y approve by President
from a communication addressed to the Wilson and submitted by the resolutions
Barre Board of Trade relative to the committee, including the plank on Amer-
Greater Vermont meeting at Montpelier ini8m ,nd that favoring woman euf
Julv 12 and 13 and stated that visitors , , . .... ., , , .
No. 8. Andrew C. Sulhajt of Morrisville. . .muwiua Lity, Mexico, June w. uen.
' - i t : 1 1 iL . ra
The membership of the grand chapter ' '''"ng i.-r.
little larger than ever before. The
organization decided to allow mileage to
11 its officers and to one representative
from each subordinate chapter in con
nection with the convention just passed
nd all conventions in the future,
RE-OPEN MARBLE QUARRIES.
TALK OF THE TOWN
Mrs. Joseph Liazer of upper Granite-
ville returned to her home yesterday
from Williston and Burlington, where
she has been visiting her parents and
uncle.
Miss Mildred Miles and Miss Margaret
Murphy, . who have been attending the
state normal school at Castleton, have
returned to their home in Graniteville for
the summer.
Irving C. Ellis, deputy collector of
United States revenue for the district of
New Hampshire, returned to his home in
Brattleboro to-day, after passing a few
days in the city on business.
Mrs-. James P. Hick J, who has been
passing several days with her daughters,
Mrs. G. E. Perry and Mrs. Harry Russell
of Highland avenue, returned to her
home in St. Johnsbury yesterday.
Mark Cutler went yesterday to Atlan
ta, Ga., where he will meet Mrs. Cutler,
who went about a month ago to visit
her sister, Mrs. George Grant. Mr. Cut
ler intends to stay about two weeks be
fore returning to Barre. Mrs. Cutler
will accompany him home.
Among the visitors in the city yester
day and to-day were the following peo
ple: Mr. and Mrs. G. II. V""1" st-
lohnsbury, Albert Swain of lirldgeport.
Conn., Miss Joanna Carr of East Orange,
X. J., I. L. Thomas of Burlington, Harry
G. Gordon of St. Johnsbury, B. O. Foster
of Burlington, Mr. and Mr. W. A. Priest
of Springfield, Mas., ('. R E. Best of
Enosburg Falls, Alfred L. Smith of Han
over, N. If., H. A. Hendrix of Fort Worth,
Tex.. A. D. Lane of Berlin. X. H, Allen
M. Flether of Cavendish. Charlea Stand
is h of Providence, R. I.. Miss Kdith Clay
ton of Manchester, N. IL, and R. D. Lang
of Hartford. Conn. . .
Editors of the (Joddard Becord make
their final bw in chronicling the routine
happenings at the hill mjiool in the cur
rent number, for the June isue, which
usually finds its war into the hands of
the subscribers fter the sun has set on
the June closine, will be replete with
commencement doings and little ele. It
may be aid for the pre.ent bord that
its members early addressed themselves
to the ambitious tsk of keepinsr the
seminsry magazine up to the high stand
ard of other yrsrs. and tie Mar issue
testifies to their su-vejs on eery pge.
F"r the student body, at least, the dou
ble page symposium on the senior class.
their penchants, fts and futures, pre
dilections, etc.. will be of especial inter
est, hut readers outs de the whool will
read other material with interest.
At Mount St. Mary's Academy in Bur
lington.
Burlington, June 1". The annual com
mencement exercises of Mount St. Mary
academy were held yesterday. In the
morning the Rev; Huirh McKenna sanir
mgn mass in tne convent chapel, at which
all the members of the class received
Holy Communion and after which break
fast was served in the guests' dining hall
to graduates ana visiting alumnae.
' The day's function was the graduation
exercises held in the academy hall in the
afternoon. Rt Rev. Bishop Rite, D. D.,
presided, and was assisted in the confer
ring of the honors of the academy by
the Rev. W. H. Cassidy. The clergy pres
ent included. Rev. "Father McKenna.
Barry, Lacoutre, Total, president of St.
Mlcftaeis college, Bernier. Father r. J.
Long of Montpelier and Fatter MoGary
of Winooski. Diplomas for the Latin
course were awarded to Miss Regis Cath
erine Daley, Miss Cicely Belle Donahue,
Miss Irene Elizabeth Kelly, Miss Clara
Sobolastiea Lemay and Miss Clair Ger
trude Miles. Diplomas for the English
course were awarded to Miss Pauline
Elizabeth Canning, Miss Elizabeth Fitz
simonds, Miss Julia, Elizabeth Gagne,
Miss Viola Ruth Houde, Miss Maria Dal
ton Lenhart, Miss Florence Margaret
Lenhart,' Miss Mary McEIroy, Miss Alice
Higgins McKenzie and Miss Margaret
O'Neil. . Diploma a iop the music course
were awarded to Miss Florence Marie
Marcotte and Miss Viola Ruth Houde.
ranza army of the north, yesterday ad
vised Gen. J. J. Pershing, American ex
peditionary commander, that any move
ment of American troops from their pres
ent lines to the south, east or west would
fie considered a hostile act and a signal
to commence wsrfare. Gen. Trevino act
ed upon epecifln instructions from Car
ranza
Washington, June 17. There were no
IK,, fr nx.rt.r re., The indications here to-day that the admims-
3,, . , fration's determination to continue the
itecenuy vaangca nanus. campaign against bandits in Mexico
Rutland. June 17. A real estate deal would in any way be altered by Gn.
as iust been completed which will mean Trevino'- reported threat to begin hos
the re-development of another of the tilities if the American troops move from
many marble industries in the Dorset tneir present positions m any direction
nee which have been abandoned for except toward tne poraer.
veers. Three or four such deals have Gen. I'ershing's orders (authorize him
been put through within II o years and to move in any direction he finds neces
the rezion. which of late vears has had sary to his purposes. In the absence of
onlv one or two isolated plants, is ssain Sec. Baker, who is in St. Louis, no offi
becoming a marble center. cial would predict whether these orders
P. F. McCormack. one of the heads would be changed, but the general im
of the Clarendon Marble company of pression prevailed that they would not
West Rutland, has bought .the Kent A be. '
Root property of 3 acres at South Dor- There is no fear of an Immediate clash,
set. Through it runs a vein of light va- however, for officials believe Gen. Per-
riegated stone. There is an old dam on slung would avoid taking any step that
a branch of the Battenkill river which mignt inn to serious consequences until
runs through the site and Mr. MoCor- " "ad communicated with Washington,
mack is installim? a water wheel and Late ls night the war department had
oenerafor. einectinff to deveton water no word from him or from any other
" " ' .'. - " . 1 J - n . 1 . rr
power. He will begin soon taking blocks source io connrm me repon; oi en. ire-
from the ouarrv which has been unused vinos action.
for a quarter of a century. The tract
I f- 1 . a . . : I . i. i .
at the meeting were to receive an invi- " un"" l,,e "rraony oi us
tation to visit the Barre manufacturinz three days' sessions had been disturbed
nlants and nuarrie.s. It waB also an- wi,f row over the suffrage plank.
nonnced that a larpa deleiration of local No voice was raised against the viror-
men will nrobahlv attend the banouet of " declarations of the Americanism
the Greater Vermont association at the p'ank, but at one time it looked as if
capital. Mr. Phelps has tickets for sale tne suffrage plank had been lost. After
and all intending to go are urged to see Senator VYklsh of Montana had told, the
. . C 1 11 iL.i Tl "J i 1 , .
him at once. ci'inemiun ut rifauent hihou simsEii
After the sneechmakine. a cet-toeether considered it vital to party success, how-
of an even more informal character took v" 't w" ted into the platform by av
nlace and a snf.stant.iaUbiiffet luncheon ballot of mbVz to 181. The entire plat-
was served in the room adjoining the flrm then was adopted without rollcall.
hall. I went into ine piatiorm tne sui-
MWh that. Prof. Smith had .in store frage plank stands:
for l.ia hearera arlmirahlv aunnlemented "We favor the extension of the fran-
the address w hich he gave before the chise to the women of this country, state
Board of Trade last winter. While it V "te, on the same terms as to the
in announced that, he would SDeak onlmen-
"The Possibilities of a Modern and Effl- I The women suffrage leaders considered
cient Commercial Oreranization." the nmeli more favorable declaration
sneaker permitted himself to dicress at tJ,an they got from the Republican con-
times in order to give the audience a bet- vention at iTiicago; they threw all their
ter conception of all that enters into the force behind it and won the support of
maintenance of a successful community tne administration leaders, who were
cost approximately $20,000.
WILLIMISTOWN
ONLY TWO CHANCES
IN GODDARD FACULTY
Held
Important Town Meeting to Be
Thursday, June 22.
Every taxpayer and every one inter
ested in the welfare of the town should
plan to attend the special town meeting
to be held next Thursday, the 22dat
Miss Mary E. Lease Succeeds Miss Alice
N. Averill in Music Department and
Robert S. Noble Takes F. E.
Dexter's Place Next Year.
Only two changes are necessary in the
p. m.
The questions to be considered ty .Goddard seminary for 1916-
The primary pupils of Miss Spear's
priv.ite school were delightfully enter
lained yesterday by a Japanese party.
Luncheon was served on the piazza, which
wa gaily decorated with Japanese lan
terns and ornaments, and the table was
set with Japanese cloth and dishes. Each
rhiM came in costume and carried a para
sol, fin. doll and a flag of Japan.
A schedule of calls for regular police
men using the new telephone patrol
boxes has been posted at police head
quarters and regular calls were received
at the station last night for the first
time. The patrol boxes, six in number,
vere made by Smith, WTiitcomb A Cook,
and the telephones were installed for the
Vermont Tel. & Tel. Co. by George C.
Collamer. The boxes are numbered as
fojjows: Comer of Grn!te and North
fain streets. No. 1; corner of Granite
and River streets. No. 2; corner of Black
w!l and Center streets. No. 3: comer of
North Main and Berlin streets. No. 4;
turner of South Msin street and Webster
avenue. No. 5: earner of Cmle asd Nich-r-!
stret. No. . From the boles a p.
)i.-nan may call any n:i!r.Vr in the r ;ty i
n1 re i niproei to reg:ter eacn half- are several worthy coritntKit Kr. from main for a few dars as the ruest of Rav
Imr on ; Vat. The Wea are th studert body that d;p!ay rrt nabty. mond Arklev. foricerlr of Barre, who 'is
n be ornei and ii-l at Iest l t imea ' Material fir the Ju? ji'imher ! be in 'now etrplored by the Stevens D:rva
rh r.;v,t. the raikirg neit werk. cojrpany.
MILK NOT ACCEPTABLE.
Many Vermont Dairies are Refused a
Market in Boston.
Rutland, June 17. Between 35 and
40 dairies in Rutland, Bennington and
Windham counties have been ordered not
to ship milk into Boston within the
last two weeks, following a rigid inspec
tion of the barns, creameries and other'
dairy accessories of the farms supplying
the Hub city with milk and cream, the
inspecting being done by Inspectors
O'Hara and Collins, representing the Bos
ton board of health. In some instances
the farmers have complied with the or
ders issued by the inspectors as to cer
tain changes which would allow the
dairy's milk to be accepted, while in oth
ers the milk is being made into butter
and sold in Rutland and vicinity or
shipped to cheese factories where it is
being made into cheese.
The inspectors have been making their
headquarters at the Hotel Berwick in
this city during their work in this sec
tion, which is still going on. It is under
stood that the milk itself stands the
proper tests as to purity, but the con
ditions under Wuich it is produced is the
ticking point with tha officials.
The (Vok creamery in Mount Holly
was quite seriously affected at first, be
cause certain changes were recommended
in the crsemery building itself, together
with the approximate location of the
cattle barns on this farm. Several of
the farmers selling their milk to this
creamery, waere it was separated and
the cream sold in Msssachusetts, were
topped from stdling the product if they
expected it to be shipped out of the
state.
Whst the outcome will be is not
known, but one direct result has been
tha sudden drop of the price of butter
in this city by the retail stores, print
butter being sold cheaper than tub but
ter of a week ago.
are to see if the town w ill votei to rescind
or reconsider the vote taken at March
meeting to raise 30 cents on the dollar to
put in a heating and ventilating plant
in the village schoolhouse as ordered by
the state board of health. It is claimed
by some that the state board are justi
fied in their action and that the town
should not be put to this expense at this
time. The contrary view is that the
town is bound to carry out the work
as voted last March and that if neces
sary it may aa well be done now as at
any time. Further, that the state board
has authority to do the job in case the
town refuses and that the town must
foot the bills.
An expression of the town will also be
asked in regard to the purchase of m new
rosd machine as has been requested of
the selectmen by the road commissioner.
Here, too, there is much difference of
opinion. It is reported that the commis
sioner is of the opinion that the machine
is past its usefulness, though it has been
used but two years and that he cannot
put the roads in shapfc "without a new
one. It is stated on the other hand, that
the machine is good for two years more
if it is properly and not carelessly used
and that the roads, which it is admitted,
are in very poor shape, especially in some
parts of the town, need looking after
much earlier than the first of June. It
is stated that the commissioner will be
asked why he has not smoothed up the
numbered roads in town aner avoided a
loss of money from the state of nearly
?200, and also why reports have not been
made each month as required by law.
Your correspondent is not taking. sides in
any of these matters, but is stating
what he has heard talked in the past
week. Voters are urged to turn out and
let the points at issue be fully and free
ly discussed, and then such action taken
as will be for the best interest of the
tow n aa a whole.
Due
Misses Grace and Jeannie Carson. Miss
Bessie Duncan and Mjss Grace Brown
left the city to-dsr for WhiteSeld, N. H.,
where they are to be emplored during
the summer at the Mountain View bouse.
Leon Nixon left the city last evening
attention is paid to athletic and there for Springfield, Mas., where he is to re-
are several worthy contnbsitior.s from 'main for a few dars as
Claude Ray George, who went to
Woodsville, N. If., to work in a restau
rant some ten days ago, is back strain.
suffering from an affection of the throat
which hinders his taking food easily, and
he has cone to Burlington to have ex
pert advice and possioly an operation to
remedy the trouble.
Herman J. Potter, who lately sold his
farm to tieorge (ord-n, has moved to
South Main street. Barre. j
Mrs. Kliza Williams i seriously ill
ith pneumonia and is under the care of
a trained nurse. She has not been e!I
for some tme, but ss ruinm? until'
1917, according to an announcement made
todav by Prin. O. K. Hollieter. The
resignation of Miss Alice N. Averill on
account of ill health made Imperative a
substitution in the music department,
and a successor hiy been appointed to
fill the vacancy caused by the resigna
tion of Fordyce E. Dexter, A. B., in
structor in history and mathematics.
Apart from these changes, the teaching
staff is to remain intact and needless to
say the effort to retain teachers who
have been successful in their work at the
school is in line with the policy of recog
niing experience as an important factor
in maintaining an efficient faculty.
Miss Averill is succeeded by Miss Mary
E. Lease of Waterbury, who is assigned
to courses in pianoforte, harmony and
the history of music. Mis Lease took
the place of Miss Averill at the sem
inary In 1012-1913. For the past three
years she has been in charge of the mu
sical department at Hebron academy in
Maine, where she had charge of a church
choir and played the organ. Her train
ing was received in Boston at the New
England conservatory and with private
teachers. .
Mr. Dexter's successor Is Robert S. No
ble. A. B., of Bethel. Mr. Noble was
graduated from Dartmouth in the class
of 19H. He will teach history and Eng
lish.
The faculty roster for 191ft 1917. then,
will be as follows: Prill. Orlando K. Hol
lister, A. M., Lift. IX, mathematics snd
political economy; preceptress. Miss
Agne S. Safford. English; Noah V. Bar
ker. Latin: Robert S. Noble, A. B., his
tory and English; Leslie A. Kinney, ,B.
S., science and English: Charles I..
Hoernle, commercial branches; Miss Ber
tha M. Bridees. commercial branches:
Miss Edith H. Bradford, A. B., French
snd German; Miss Elizabeth Jenkins,
state teacher training course: Miss Mary
E. Lease, piano, harmony and history of
music: Mi Grace E. Bulkeley. domestic
science and drawing; Miss Lillian K.
Morse. A. B., voire and elocution.
Mr. Hoernle is to be retained in charge
of the football, basketball and baseball
teams, in which capacities he has been
eminently successful.
unit. To achieve results, members of the
Board of Trade, he said, must be for
Barre first last and all the time. Eco
nomics teachee that there are four fac
tors in the upbuilding of a town, power,
labor, capital and a market. To this
category, the speaker would add a fifth
factor as being the most essential of all.
That factor, he said, is men. In an u
luminatins.wav he called attention to
the development of such industrial cen
ters as Detroit and Springfield, the latter
m ernvont. Neither community had in
herent advantages in the building up of
either the automobile or the machine in
dustry.
I found fighting for them when dantrer
threatened.
TRADE WEEK OPENS
WELL IN BARRE
Despite Unfavorable Weather Conditions,
Many Shoppers Came to City for the
Big Opportunities Offered. .
Barre's trade week opened to-day in a
manner that bodes well for days of ex-
Men were responsible for the come, i nis in spite
advancement, men with initiative, brains ol "c ""- voraple weatner
and vision. He pointed to the growth of conditions prevailed. Out of town shop-
iniiaor Ha an evmttnle ftf what, men or ltv'- 1 uvv"
action have achieved.
Comparing Springfield, Mass.. stvled
the only western city in New England,
with its rather slow going neighbor.
Hartford, and then again, Cleveland with
promoters of the trade week program
were preparing for an even larger influx;
of visitors this afternoon. Reports from
the outlying towns indicate that the
trade week plan is regarded as an ex-
l i, . . I a
Columbus, the twin cities, Prof. Smith eeiienu oppoiiumiy ion snopp ng m tne
stated that success in two instances was Barr market Local merchants are pre-
due to men and their civic organizations I"'" "peumouBiy
and in two instances to the fact that ef
fective civic organizations were practi
cally unknown.
Success along the lines indicated, the
speaker went on, is more than a question
of men; it is a question of organization.
He spoke of what organizations of a civic
character may accomplish in the way of
advertising New England as the play
ground of the nation; of what may be
achieved through closer co-operaxion
with the agricultural interests of the sec
tion where the hoard of trade is in
trenched; and again of the necessity of
combining interests with county agri
cultural agents, with senators, represen
tatives and others invested with author
it v.
Every man is primarily interested in
the betterment of his home. It is first
in his thoughts and through what better
medium can it be accomplished than
through civic snd commercial develop
ment, he asked. Every man, to carry
the principle to. its logical conclusion, has
a bigger investment in his town than in
his business. No board of trade or civic
organization, he continued, ever failed of
its purpose if its members understood its
mission
Prof. Smith touched upon the credit
problems of the merchants as an instance
where co-operation counts, of what may
bo saved through a co-operative effort to
employ a qualified traffic expert and of
the advantages accruing from a perfect
understanding among the members of a
community unit In closing, he suggested
that the interests may be greatlv ad
vanced by "stimulating the co-operative
spirit, decreasing the tendency to 'knock'
increasing the tendency to boost and to
bark up the leaders. There is no liberty
without service, he said, and the greatest
good cannot be achieved without united
effort.
and there is every reason to believe that
the co-operative results of the trade
week program are. to be realized on all
sides.
WEBSTER PAUL,
Marriage Occurred To-day at the Presby
terian Manse.
At the Presbyterian manse on Welling
ton street this forenoon at 10 o'clock,
Miss Annie B. Paul, daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. John B. Paul of Avers street.
was married to James A. Webster, a
graniteeutfr. Rev. Edgar Cross land, pas
tor of the First Presbyterian church, per
formed the ceremony and the couple were
unattended. Mr. and Mrs. Webster are
to make their home in Barre.
TO GRANT CITIZENSHIP.
Preliminary Examinations In Barre and
- Montpelier June si and 23.
Clerk F. S. Piatt of the United States
court will hold a session of naturaliza
tion court in the Barre city court room
Wednesday, June 21, from 2 to 9 o clock,
for the purpose of granting first papers
and applications for second papers. He
will be in Montpelier on the following
day.
Judge Harland B. Howe, who is now
conducting court in New York, will be in
Montpelier early in July for the purpose
of holding final" hearings for citizenship.
There are 130 names on the list for final
ps pers.
, BARNUM & BAILEY CIRCUS
Will Come to Montpelier July 8 First
Advertising Car Arrives.
The giddiest, gayest, grandest, glitter-
ingest galaxy in the whole wide, wonder-
11 1 world is trekking this war and will
spread its acres of tents at Montpelier
(.....-To T..1 Q If nnm A .a . in
Attended Graduation Exercises at Lyn- ( ... ' '. ;. 4l ,v.
I 1 I 'in 1111? inav a. a in is umuv z in'
' donville Last Evening. j Parnum 4 Bailey greatest show on earth.
Lvndonville. June 17 The rraduatine "" publicity man win regard tne case as
exercises of Lyndon institute and Uie 1
DISTINGUISHED VISITORS.
PLEADED NOT GUILTY.
Edward Anderson Charged with Larceny
of Lumber.
Edward Anderson of Wehsterville is at
liberty under bail of ?.V) to secure his
ap-arsnoe at a hearing before Mscis
trate V.. W. Scott in city eourt Tueda.v
morning. Anderson was arrested hrl'mi-
tma week. fen sue Peca me worse and on ,m. .lames I'umminrt of Wr..te ,lle
Wednesday, developed pneumonia, Th i , eompUint made to State s Attorner
F. E. G!ason. eharrine him with the
com tort We. Jlarcnv of lumber, etc, from the Innes A ! 10:30 oV
The annual reunion snd bsnquet of the : rut-khsnk quarry in U ehtervi!l. j lin- of Wor.-e-rer. Mass
V . V. ..Ll K14 T"K , . ! ..... ill'L.. .rr.il Iw. f. ... ft.. i ... j L. .-1 t V. . ........ n
tguiityaaJ 10 tie or 'er of banaliiifate Sui-Jt ta 'i elrj-'snt. a lfet parade thiee
hopeless. The first advertising car is in
Montpelier to-day and more than a score
of expert are spreading with tack and
hammer and paste and brush the flaming
lithographic tidincs of the approach of
the big traveling amusement institution.
They are under the direction of Arthur
E. Dicirs. a well known circus advertising
specialist.
This is the innovati-m of novelty year,
the greatest of all seasons. More rail
road ir are required to transport the
show, b'gjer tent are raised, more area
is needed to accommodate the show than
ever before, ln fact, the circus has
reached a j-oint where it is the despair
of many of the smaller railroads and
taie. their fac;l.ties to the limit, for 89
jeers are needed to eontey the (tigantie
Fer-ie irarkirs the 17th annual com- jtanias a-rant from to n to town.
menreroerit at ddrd eenunsrr will b- I Iheies material enouch in this rear s
pin to-morrow with the com men. e ment j rimis to tmkf a doren r'r'uwt of the
sermon in the I ritersal.st chu'eh atjoM das. A "btj top" SXrt feet long.
k. F.rv. iinvr-t Fsfon Tem-n-arly l.VO eTpl -yes. three tinrs. four
Theodore N. Vail school of agriculture,
were held at MuNie hall last evening. The
Girls' (ilee club of the institute furnished
music and following the program diplo.
mil were orei-entei by the Hon. Theo
dore N. Vail, president of Lyndon in
stitute snd founder of the agricultural
school.
Following his usual cu'tom, Mr. Vail
had as bis gue.ta during the commence
ment men .of national fame. Ex-President
William If. Taft and .tames Wilson
of Iowa, former secretary of agriculture,
appeared with President Vail on the plat
form and h'th men addressed the grad
uating r'asses.
will be the e'evatei p'atWrrs. S'-res of serai sp-
! rriifi
ir.g in te parlors of the tVrirgtK.'t.al An ierson ntieI a plea of noi
c b urch.
was ready te furnish ba.L
sirs jst.
1 jv.
m.es
