4
The intelligent, common sense
uorkingmen prefer to deal with the
problems of today, with which they
must contend if they want to make
advancements, rather than to deal
with a picture or a dream.—(tam­
pers.
*$, No. 53.
STRIKE ON GREAT
Advance of $10 Monthfy
to All Sailors Below
Licensed Officers.
DULUTH. WOULD HAVE
BEEN HIT HARD
Lake Carriers Also Urge Addi­
tional Remuneration for
Licensed Officers.
By voting to raise by $10 a month
he wages of all men aboard ship, and
oelow licensed officers in rank, the
directors of the Lake Carriers 'asso­
ciation. at its meeting1 in -Cleveland
urfdoubtedly averted the biggest strike
the Great Lakes have ever experienced
and a consequent general tie-up of
lake traffic for the rest of the season.
Its beneficial effect on TJuluth can­
not be measured, but had the threat­
ened strike occurred, this city itself,
the ranges back of it, the farmers of
the Xorthwest as a whole, and conse­
quently the business men of Duluth
and every other city and hamlet in
the Northwest would have experienced
a finacial set-back which, in a year
naturally rich in prosperity, would
have been tremendous. That is th.e
feeling among business men in gen­
eral.
Business has watched the develop­
ments which seemed to be surely lead­
ing up to a split between the vessel
owners and their employes, and has
dreaded what seemed the inevitable
outcome.
"Duluth Easily Affected.
Tt is believed that Duluth, because
of this being the outlet for ore, grain
and other produce from the Northwest
to the East, would have been hit
harder than most places, for besides
the set-back in this line, every effect
on the various communities of the
Northwest would have been reflected
here as well.
The East as well as the West has
been dreading such a strike, for that
part of the nation depends a very
great deal ^n the "West, and particu­
larly the Northwest, for its supplies,
and a strike on the Great Lakes' at
this time of the year, it is recognized,
would not only throw men out of
work in many industries in the East,
TJtlT tvoetM fricreaflts ttier cost
fiMSt
-«hes
rrf many
staples because of the greater exuense
attached to their transportation all
rail.
Meets Probable Demand.
Some of the unions have voted for
an increase of $ 20 a month per^nan,
but it was not expected that the gen­
eral meeting of the unions, being held
in Buffalo, would ask for more than
a J10 raise. This the Lake Carriers'
association directors, at their meeting
anticipated by granting that much of
a raise to all sailors below the li­
censed officers, making the advance
applicable on the
of the current
month. It is expected that no more
difficulty with the men -will be ex­
perienced, although the question of
better hours may come up, and also
the welfare plan of the Lake Carriers'
association, to which the sailors* un­
ions object. In a measure the direc­
tors of the Lake Carriers' association
met the matter of hours at its meeting
yesterday by deciding to work the
coal passers in threee-hour watches
on all boats so fv as it is practicable,
and also to regard them as part of the
engineeer's department.
Old and New Scales.
The old and new scales of wages of
the 10.000 men affected by the Lake
Carriers' decision are as follows:
Old New
scale, scale.
Wheelsmen $60.00 $70.00
Boatswains 60.00 70.00
Firemen and others... 60.00 70.00
Deckhands 37.50 47.50
Coalpassers 35.00 45.00
It was also recommended that the
question of additional remuneration
for licensed officers be taken up at a
later meeting of vessel owners, and
that just recognition be given them for
their marked efficiency under the
strain of a heavy freight movement
and during the unusual period of hot
weathe?. This recognition will prob­
ably take the form of a distribution
Continued on Page 3.
By FRAN CIS AHERN.
)NEY, N. S. \V., Aug. 10—Cost
in^over $7,500,000, the new South
Wales state-owned abattoirs, just op­
ened, represent the last word in the
industry of killing meat for human
consumption.
Heavy though the expense may
seem, the offset is that the people of
this state have meat they consunjp
killed and distributed in the most
Wholesome and hygienic way possible.
To give us the last word in this in­
dustry the abattoirs of the world
have been ransacked in the search of
the latest and most approved methods
of dealing with the people's meat sup­
ply, and we can say that our works
represent the last word in slaughter­
houses. Everything that has been in­
stalled stands for cleanliness and
thoroughness.
Covers 1,500 Acres.
The scheme covers some 1,500
48ifie-y.
xlxLi
miTT?
and Parades Should
Lethargy of Past
Gompers.
PROPER CELEBRATION
DOES MUCH FOR CAUSE
Great Progress of Last Year
Should Be Made Known
He Says.
(By Samuel Gompers, Pr-esident Am­
erican Federation of^Labor.)
Many labor organizations have
Labor day celebrations under consid­
eration at the present time. Through
the efforts of the labor movement the
first Monday in September has been
generally set aside as the distinctively
Labor day of ths year and it is now
practically a universal holiday. The
purpose of the day is to direct general
thought towards the needs and aspira­
tions of the workers, and to afford
the workers'themselves time and op­
portunity to consider those things
which vitally concern them and the
labor organization through which
they are trying to work out their
ideals.
Wherever the workers have been
through some crisis .which has stirred
them to particular effort and roused
them to renewed sense of appreciation
of the meaning of the labor move­
ment, the celebration for the day in­
variably has a peculiar significance
and arouses deep-seated feeling and
enthusiasm.
But, as in every other relationship,
where there is nothing that has par­
ticularly stimulated to activity there
is a tendency toward a general leth­
argy in the celebration of Lab^f day,
and it is permitted to degenerate into
a sort of social holiday unmarked by
anything distinctively labor.
This is a serious mistake. Labor
day can have its fullest value only
when there is associated with the
celebration of the day efforts tf call
attention to the purposes and the
causes of the labor movement. It
should be a day for renewing devo­
tion to the cause of labor, for
strengthening ties of fraternity and
for instilling larger and broader ideals
which lead out to a wider field of ac­
tivity and a fuller appreciation of the
possibilities of the labor movement.
A Labor day properly celebrated
does much for the organized labor
mov'ement and gives the movement a
publicity that can rarely be secured in
any other way. When the holiday is
distinctively labor, labor news and
labor doings necessarily have first
place in all daily papers. The greater
the effort of the labor movement to
place emphasis and prominence upon
the doings and activity of labor, the
greater will be the publicity we gain
and consequently there will result bet­
ter understanding of the power and
possibilities of the labor movement—
an understanding that can be utilized
for practical purposes -during the
whole year.
It is, therefore, urged that every
central body in the country plan for
a distinctively labor celebration on
the coming Labor, day. There ought
to be a parade that will direct the at­
tention of the whole town to the
cause of labor, which is the cause of
humanity, and in addition a general
gathering of the workers of the com­
munity to listen to labor addresses.
The labor movement has made tre­
mendous progress during the past
year. On this coming Labor day we
ought to make known the story of
that progress to the whole nation, and
plan for greater constructive work
during the next year. There are ao
limitations to the work of the labor
movement, no limitations to its power
to bring betterment into the lives of
the workers of this country or to es­
tablish mutually helpful relations
with the workers of all other coun­
tries.
The labor movement of the United
States has reason to be proud of its
achievements, and to be gratified at
the work that has been done for hu­
manity and civilization during the
past year. Let us express this prog­
ress in an adequate way. on Septem­
ber 4.
acres, which comprise the actual
abattoir premises, test grounds for the
cattle, and site for saleyards, and rail­
way approaches. In the general get
up, Chicago has 'been emulated in
some respects.
We are going to deal with every­
thing in the cattle, sheep and pigs,
except the squeal, for from the offal
and blood valuable fertilizers are to
be made, which will be sold at the
cheapest rate for developing the land.
With our abattoirs there will be no
noisome smells. Just as they will
use every part of the animal, so even
the gases will be imprisoned and
chemically handled. Railways will
convey the skins, hides, and so on, to
the various tanneries near the site,
vhere they will toe turned into useful
articles.
Keep It Spic and Span,
One great feature about the new
works is the amount of room, while
another is the all-round provision that
is made for cleanliness. Water is laid
on almost every inch of the works.
V-,r
The United States Steel corporation had its lesson
in 1907. An individual -would ordinarily pqofit by such
a lesson, but seemingly an institution such, as the
United States Steel either cannot or will not learn.
They got rid of the Finns who, they claimed, were
responsible for the trouble at that time. They brought
in the Austrian, the Montenegrin to take the place of
the Finn. And now the Austrian and Montenegrin are
in rebellion. This shifting of nationalities is one or
the methods of the Ste%l trust employers to break a
strike.
Unprejudiced obesrvers agree that there is but one
way for the mining companies to meet the situation.
The Steel trust and the independent mine owners
say the Industrial Workers of the World is ah irre­
sponsible outfit. All right, then let them agree to do
business with a responsible labor union, a union affil­
iated with the American Federation of Labor. All the
Steel trui£ and the independents need'to do is to recog­
nize the economic principle of collective bargaining, and
there will be an end to such uprisings as have taken
place on the Mesaba and Cuyuna ranges.
The mine owners claim that the miners have walked
out without making any demands on the companies.
Assuming this to be true, the mine owners should re­
member that such a state of affairs could not exist if
they would agree- to negotiate with an organization
affiliated with the American Federation of Labor.
Let them remember another thing: That a strike
among the miners could not be called until approval had
been given by the parent organization.
The steel trust has had its opportunity. The indepen­
dent mine owners have had their opportunity.
Before the men in a number of the independent
mines on the Cuyuna arnge went out on stike, the mine
owners refused to permit an organizer for a bona fide
labor union to put in an organization in those mines.
Collective bargaining is recognized as a sound prin­
ciple. Forty-three out of forty-five men who testified
before the Commission on Industrial delations said it
was absolutely necessary under the present social sys­
tem. These men were chosen representatives of the
employers, employes and the public.
Two representatives dissented from this view. ONE
WAS A MEMBER OF THE INDUSTRIAL WORKERS
OF THE WORLD, THE OTHER WAS AN EMPLOYER.
Neither the I. W. W. nor the steel trust and some of
the independent mine owners, will recognize the prin­
ciple of collective bargaining and therein lies the ex­
planation of all the trouble now existing on these
two ranges.-
Here is another significant thing to remember in
connection with the range trouble:
The I. W. W. rarely attempts to start trouble in places*
where the AM ERIC
In view of all the facts, there is but one conclusion,
that there is no desire on the part of the mining com­
ACCIDENTS INCREASE.
HARRISBURG, Pa., Aug. 10.—
During the first six months of 1916
almost as many fatal accidents oc­
curred in Pennsylvania's industries as
were reported during the entire 12
months of the previous year, reports
Commissioner of Labor Jackson.
The causes for this increase are the
greater number of men employed at
high speed, the employment of
"green hands," and the operation of
the workmen's compensation law,
which is bringing in full reports of
accidents. The state department of
labor and industry is conducting a
campaign to reduce this tremendous
waste of the vital resources of Penn­
sylvania.
"DETECTIVE" BURNS HELD.
NEW YORK, Aug. 10.—William J.
Burns, the' 'great detective," is held
in $1,000 bail on complaint of the dis­
trict attorney, who charges this cham­
pion of the law and order with having
unlawfully, wilfully and without au­
thority" removed and divulged to
others certain letters, telegrams, pri
"vate papers' and copies thereof from
the offices of a law firm in this city.
In plain English, Burns is charged
with breaking into a lawyer's office
and stealing letters and also tapping
telephone wires.
so that every part of the carcas, from
the time it leaves the slaughter pen
till it is put into the butcher's cart
for delivery,, will be cleansed by the
same water as the people of the state
use for drinking purposes. A huge
reservoir, Having a capacity of 150,000
gallons, is erected to give enough
water for washing down the premises
as required. Two hundred railroad
cars will always be kept in reserve to
riish the offal away to the various
works for treatment, while they have
the latest things in railroads to ensure
quick dispatch of such matter.
The greatest feature of the works
is the elimination of handling. The
abattoirs are replete with every clever
device imaginable. As a case in point,
when the sheep ar^ dispatched by the
executioner, -their decapitated heads
run down one chute and their
paunches down another, where op­
eratives. await to deal with them.
These chuteb will be! so arranged on
travelers, so that the heads and
paunches. Will oome along just quick"
enough for thi men to deal with them.
FOE SOCIAL JUSTICE. ECONOMIC REFORM AND POLITIOAL PROGRESS.
DULUTH AND SUPERIOR, AUGUST 12,1916.
TIME FOR MINE OWNERS TO TREAT
WITH LABOR UNION
Aft FEDERATION OF LABOR
HAS A FOOTHOLD. Their activities are confined
largely to localities where there is no organization.
Furthermore, three-fourths of the strikes occurring
today are among men not organized or newly organized.
We repeat, then, that if the mining companies would
use just a little reason the mess could have been avoided.
The men would be working under an agreement, and
would have remained at work pending any adjustment
of the difficulties.
SAYS STRIKERS ARE JUSTIFIED.
WILKES-BARRE, Pa., Aug. 10.—
State Commissioner of Labor and In­
dustry Jackson has reiterated his for­
mer statement that motormen and
conductors of this city were justified
in insisting that an arbitration .award
be reopened, and which resulted in
the present strike, which has been
waged for several months.
The strikers originally demanded
wage increases, and the matter was
referred to an arbitration boar'1, Mr.
Jackson served as chairman. The
board's award was based on a(sliding
scale. The employes' representatives
protested against this decision, which
ignored the purpose ior which the
board was created. Later Mr. Jack­
son accepted this viewpoint, and re­
versed his decision, which the com­
pany refused to accept.
VANCOUVER MINERS STRIKE..
VANCOUVER,, B. C., Aug. 10.—The
Fernie and Michel Coal mines are idle
because of a strike of miners. The
coke ovens are working. A joint con­
ference was expected to be held in
Calgary yesterday but did not mate­
rialize. Hopes are held out for a set­
tlement and a promise to meet the
men's demands for a 10 per cent in­
crease.
STATE-OWNED ABATTOIRS SOLVE PURE MEAT AND LABOR PROBLEMS
At the" same time, the blood and
waste. will run along canals through
a series of deodorizing vessels which
reduce the smells to moistiye—the
blood beinfe conserved for use, while
the waste goes on its way to the
sewers.
The smells meanwhile will be
treated toy furnaces, after which they
will be guaranteed quite harmless. The
blood will travel, by special gravita­
tion canals and pumped into reser­
voirs to be dried, and, in turn, made
into fertilizers, 'opening up quite a
new industry for New South Wales.
Electric wires of low current Will,
be used to drive the cattle to the
death chambers, where they will be
killed by a knock on the frontal bone
of the head, instead of the old methods
of spearing, them. After the brute is
dispatched, the carcass will be tilted
mechanically on platforms to enable
it to be easily-handled, after which it
will move by the aid of mechanical
devices so that It can be handled easily
in the various points of treatment.
The death chambers are lined with
Ha. "5
r"
(v-
panies tf adjust the matter. There are exceptions,
of course, but the few who would like to deal with a
real labor organization are afraid to take this step
alone. Their idea of "liberty of contract" is liberty to
compel the individual worker to labor under terms and
conditions named by the employer.
That's a nice thing for the employer, but there's
one thing wrong with it. The employe can't somehow
see the justice of it. Furthermore, thinking people are
not going to be fooled by it much longer.
The Steel corporation has heretofore been credited
with playing pretty good politics. Perhaps they have
deserved all that has been said of them along this line.
however, the range ^situation is not going to increase
respect for them among people who think. A press
that wantonly beclouds the issues, intentionally falsi­
fies, cannot get away with such stuff forever.
"You can fool some of the people—," well—you
know the rest of it. Lincoln was the man who sald.it.
Not long ago one of the daily papers carried a front
page story with headlines something^like the following:
"PITCHED BATTLE BETWEEN STRIKERS AND
DEPUTIES."
We have taken the trouble to learn the facts, which
are as follows:
A miner near Biwabik owned a mongrel dog. The
dog had a habit of barking at almost everything he
saw. One morning, real early, a porcupine crossed the
dog's path. Doggie went after the porcupine. The
miner watched the proceedings with some degree of
satisfaction until the dog began to get the worst of the
argument.
The miner ran for his gun and fired five shots at
Mr. Porcupine and five times missed him. Deputies,
hearing the shots ran to the scene—after it was all
over.
An enterprising morning newspaper, not far from
Duluth, saw an excellent opportunity for a scoop, and,
naturally told the people who risked two good pennies,
all about a PITCHED BATTLE BETWEEN STRIKERS
AND DEPUTIES.
When the facts became known, there was no retrac­
tion -no explanation.
A paper can get away with that kind of stuff for
a while. An employer whose men are on strike can
take advantage of such publicity, but finally the .people
get next to it and they don't pay any attention to what
they read. They just think.
And the people in St. Louis county are thinking.
They are 'thinking" that it is time the Steel trust's
and independent's bluff is c^le^ It was called last
week.
A representative of a responsible labor union gave
thdtn the opportunity and it Was flatly refused. As we
stated earner in this article, there are independent mine
owners who would be more than willing to deal with
an organization affiliatd with the Amercan Federation
of Labor.
But they are ruled by those more powerful and who
in the last analysis, control the situation on both ranges.
There
iV-a
maxim in the Law. of Equity: "Let those
who seek equity come into court with dlean hand$"
The steel trust will Continue to condemn the I. W. W.
as an irersponsible organization. But the people are
going to remember that the steel trust will have nothing
to do with: any kind of a labor union.
J*
R.R. EMPLOYES LOW WAGE.
ST. AUGUSTINE, Fla., Aug. 10.—
Vice President feeckwith of the Flor­
ida-East Coast Railway company has
issued an -appeal to all -employes to
support the company in the evenl:
that engineers, conductors, firemen
and trainmen suspend work to en­
force their eight hour demand. To
prove the "unreasonableness" of this
deman'd he cites dthe wages of these
employes and then states'that the av­
erage day wage "of all other em­
ployes/ excepting general office
clerks, is $1.63.
He closes. his appeal to these low
wage workers as follows: "If the
emergency arises there will be a call
for volunteers. Will you serve as a
volunteer, and in. what capacity?
Please advise."
MINERS CHOOSE OFFICIALS.
GREAT FALLS, Mont., Aug. 10.—•
President Moyer and Secretary
Treasurer Mills of the Western Fed­
eration of Miners have been re­
elected by a referendum vote. Dele­
gates to the A. F. of L. are President
Moyer, Joseph D. Cannon, James
Roberts and P. J. Reardon.
A canvassing board made the above
report to the convention of these
metal miners, held in this city.
white marble bricks to the height of
three feeet, while the floors are con­
creted, so that the last word in clean­
liness becomes possible.
Night Bright as Day.
The works will be lighted like sun­
shine throughout the nights, and for
this .purpose the largest electrical in­
stallation in Australia is at the. works.
The electric power house has a Ca­
pacity of over .2,600 kilowatts. The
cooling chambers represent a stored
-energy of, 150 tons of ice per 24
hours, and will vary according to the
times of the year.
The men will work under the best
possible conditions. Bathrooms, laun­
dries and change houses area feature
of the works, and it will be possible
for the mten to go to work and return
from work in their "Sunday best"
clothes, while at the works they Will
wear ciothes of immaculate whiteness.
Huge by-product works have been
erected to deal with this new phase
ot the work, for it is the intention of
the state that nothing of commercial
us£ is wasted. Special buildings to
deal with export trade are erected-?
.' \J^.,
& I
«, /itS'
*.. 7^ "vv^-''" *'.*"'
INNESO
Declares Republican Platform
Registered Party's Surrender
to Privilege.
WOULD ELIMINATE
RAILWAY COMMISSIONS
Reactionaries Did Work For
Their Masters Which People
Will Resent.
'It is not a pleasant task to criti­
cise the political action of the party
to which one belongs," wrote Senator
R. M. LaFollette in- LaFollette's Mag­
azine. But Mr. LaFollette did criti­
cise his party's action. He wrote
frankly his opinion of the platform
adopted at Chicago.. He said he was
compelled to do sb by Kis convictions.
"The platform adopted by the Re­
publican convention at Chicago," said
the Senator, 'cannot fail to be a dis­
appointment to the great majority of
the party." He continued:
'The reactionary elecpnt of the
party were in control of the conven­
tion. Supplied with unlimited funds,
the national committee can perpetu­
ate its control when it represents but
a small minority of the voters.
More than four million progres­
sive Republican voters, left the party
in 1912. They were earnest, patriotic
men who had faith in Roosevelt as
a leader. Hundreds of thousands of
progressive Republicans who had no
confidence in the political integrity of
Roosevelt refused to abandon the
party and follow him at that time.
Together with those who joined the
third pai^y, Ihey constitute an over­
whelming majority of the total mem­
bership of the Republican party. The
great mass of these voters are men
of deep convictions. "They are Repub­
licans. They are tor public Interest
and against privilege and monopoly
control of'government.
'It would have been the part of
wisdom for those in control of the
Chicago convention to have remem­
bered this recent history."
The Senator said that it was upon
the subject of railroad, regulation that
the framers of the- platform gave the
country its greatest surprise.
"Like a bolt out of a blue Sky
comes the platform declaration for
the abolition of every state railroad
commission in the country," declared
Mr. LaFollette. "The people of Wis­
consin, Minnesota,' Iowa, Kansas* Neb­
raska, Oregon, California, and every
other state, are to have the regula­
tion of the rates and'services of the
railroads within each state taken out
of the hands of their own commis­
sion, subject to their own control, and
turned over to the federal govemn
ment. They are to have their state
governments taken away, from them
to this extent. Webelieve the people
of every state will fight this propo­
sition to the last ditch."
RAILROAD CLERKS' TRIKE.
JERSEY CITY, N. J„ A.ug. 10.—Be­
cause several members qf Lodge No.
373, Brotherhood of Railway Clerks,
were discharged, 200 fellow workers
employed by the Central
rRailroad
.Ih® working class movement to
Jbe most effective must he conducted
by the workers themselves In the In­
vest of the workers. It will'not
"f l»e dominated by the so-called in*
teliectuals or butters-in.—Stampers.
TWO CENTS.
010 REPUBLICANS
II
of
New Jersey suspended work. Railroad
officials deny that the, men were dis­
charged because of. union affiliation.
"Insubordination" is their excuse. As
the railroad policy.is. against union­
ization, tl\e officials' .explanation is
another way of stating ..the brother­
hood's position.
WILD DEFEND JPXCKETS.
PITTSBURG, Aug.-10.—The Central
Trades council has appointed a com­
mittee to ,defend waiters' on strike
against several large hotels. The
strikers' pickets are
.'being -intimidated,
and it is proposed to collect evidence
and present same to the city council.
The waiters are: demanding higher
wages, snorter hftjirs, better food and
more comfortable dressing rooms.
BAKERS REDUfcE *HOURS.
RICHMOND, Va,, Aug. 10.—The
Corby Baking company "has signed a
two-years* contract with the Bakers'
union. The company agrees to em­
ploy only union, men, hours are re­
duced from 10 to 19 per 'day an$
wages are increased.'
the mutton house being five stories
high, while the beef house is six
stories high.
Have Large Capacity.
'The export works alone, in a work­
ing year of 300 days, will be able to
turn out 3,000,600 carcassses of mut­
ton and 'l5jp,0.00 carcassess of beef.
The daily slaughtering capacity for
home use will .be 1,600 beef, 15,000
mutton, 1,400 veal, and 1,300 pork
carcasses.
In the sale, yards provision is made
for 75,000 sheep and iambs, 8,000 cat­
tle, 1,000 calves, eiid 3,000 pigs. In
addition there will be* homes for 150
dogs,vand swimming" baths, and dry­
ing sheds for cattle and other car­
casses.'
The administrative offices cover
three acres of land, and are a hand-
some- set, of buildings,' with gardens^
lawns, telegraph, sale,, press, and tele­
phone offices, refreshment rooms and:
workshops. So tl^jt,' at a cost of 97,
500,000v wto are w|have the very best
lh abattoirs.
The.socialisihl
in the stat#
of .the 'meat industry
tue*nsland is meeting
14}
One Who Voted For Lincoln
Declares President's Record
Should Satisfy All.
SNEERS OF OLD GUARD
DON'T SOLVE PROBLEMS
Civil War Veterans Give Reasons
For Deserting Party of Their
Fathers.
Many Republicans of long standing
are turning away from .the party of
their forefathers to vote for President
Wilson. There is a world of interest
in the peculiar reasons some of them
have given for leaving the political
party they have folllowed so. long and
joining Democracy's ranks.
..Three such men are to be found in
Milwaukee. One of them is A. B.
Myers, an old resident of that city,
prominent in the real estate business,
a veteran of the Civil war, and long
known as a conspicuous Republican in
campaigns of the past.
"I have been a Republican since
1864," said Mr. Myers to an inter­
viewer from the Milwaukee Journal.
"I voted for President Lincoln for his
second term and for all other Repub­
lican candidates until 1912, when I
voted for Woodrow Wilson. I have
not been sorry I did, and I believe
the administration of President Wil
son should satisfy all good citizens
who really have the welfare of the
republic 'at heart.
"The Republicans have no real is­
sue in this campaign—no place in it.
All they are doing all they can do is
sneer. President Wilson has accom­
plished more constructive legislation
in three years than the Republicans
did in 16. I shall certainly vote for
Wilson again.
"I am not alone in this. Why, nine
tenths of the members of congress,
including representatives of the Dem- .
ocratic, Republican and Progressive
parties voted^together on the bills Mr.
Wilson has championed in the halls of
national 'legislation—the Income tax
bill, the free tolls and regional bank
-bills, etc.
Cool Headedness at Washington.
"Mr. Hughes, the RepublicanrCMidi*
date, in his telegram of acceptance.,,
has criticized Mr. Wilson, in a general
way, but when he Is asked/what'
ought- to have been done other than
what Mr. Wilson did hequieted down"-,
quickly. That sort of inud-slingin&l
was indulged in even by a former jus«\
tice of the United States supreme
court.
Fought by Side of Carl Schurz.
General Frederick C. Winkler, also
of Milwaukee, and prominent socially
and in business circles, has been a
Republican voter ever since the
stormy days of I860, but he has de­
clared himself now a deyout follower
of Woodrow Wilson/and has sent the
President word by teleigraph that he
Continued
with great success, and the state shops
are everywhere being-patronized. As
many lis 1,000 customers are served
daily in some of the shops, where the
meats are sold at prices far below that"
sold in the private 'shops.
State Goes Jhfo Business.
The Queensland government has
also gone into the meat Business as
regards finding the stock for supply-
W- if
1
"I dont* believe th^t anything will
prevent the re-election of President]
Wilson, for the more men think
calmly over his record at Washington,
keeping this country out of war—and
particularly the way he has very re
cently avoided a war with Mexico—«j
the more they will say7that's the,
kind of coolheadedness we want at
Washington in times of world-wide
disturbances.'
""The United States has maintained
its relations with European nations
honorably. President. Wilson has
stood up for American rights and car
ried every point by diplomacy. The
kaiser has.Knuckled to his demands
concerning the submarine warfare he'
was waging, and the Germans of this
country ought not to feel any-hostil-j
ity to Mr. Wilson since the Kaiser,
himself, has sent them word to be
neutral and obey the laws of this
country.
"When I joined the army in 1861'
I swore to uphold the administration.
When I votecl for Wilson in 1912 I
told my sons if what Roosevelt had
said of Taft, and what Tlaft had said
of Roosevelt was true, then-neither of
them were fit for the great office of
president of the United stats.
4,
ing the shops. For this purpose large
cattle ranches have been bought, and
the government 4ear their own stock
on these ranches.
The latest purchase of the govern­
ment has been the purchase of a large
run called the Mount Hutton ranch,
with over 10,000 head of cattle, at $35
per head. That the deal'is a good
one is shown by the fact that today
the same cattle are being sold in the
•open market at $85 a-head. -So that
the- government, on this deal, har
made a clear profit of $500,000.
v. It. is because of purchases like this
that the Queensland government is*
able to sell its meat at prices 50 pef»
cent under the prices of private meat*
markets.
'Sr
*5
-j.
