POPULATION 28,219
NORWICH, CONN., SATURDAY, AUGUST 12, 1916
SIXTEEN PAGES 112 COLUMNS
PRICE
CENTS
The Bulletin's Circulation in Norwich is Double That of Any Ot aper, and Its Total Circulation is the Largest in Connecticut in Proportion to the City's Population
Women to Work
to Defeat Wilson
Cabled P .aphs
Now -ark Sunk.
Christianse. .vorway, August 11,
via London, 5:t, p. b. The Norwegian
steamship Ragnarok, from Gothenburg
for Rouen, has been sunk in the North
Sea as the result of an explosion. Her
crew was saved. The captain express
ed a belief his had been destroyed by
an infernal machine which had been
placed in the hold.
Railroad Strike Due
to Start Today
Condensed Telegrams
The total German casualties In the
war are 2,911,387.
Congress Yields to
Flood of Protests
The. Spanish line steamship Mont-
serrat arrived at New York, from Bar
celona, IN
EACH OF THE TWELVE SUF
FRAGE STATE"
UNLESS THE DEMANDS OF THE
BROTHERHOOD ARE GRANTED
RECONSIDERS VOTE TO LOWER
EXEMPTION FROM INCOME TAX
VOL.
ALUS AOTME IN
Stanislau, 87 Miles East
Occupied by
OPENS ANOTHER GATEWAY TOWARD LEMBERG
Petrograd Announces the Capture of 55,000 More German
Austro Prisoners The Italians Have Driven the Austri
ans East of the Vallone Line and Have Captured Several
Towns in the Direction of Triest French Forces Have
Captured Additional German Trenches Near Maupas
British Forces Have Been Compartively Inactive Anglo
French Forces Have Attacked the Bulgarians.
Russian, Italian and French armies
connnue successfully their respective
offensives, and according to the lat
est official communications, have taken
more, territory from the Austro-Ger-mei.i
powers in France, Galicia and
Austria.
Stanislau, 87 miles east of Lem
, berg, the capital of Galicia has been
! occupied by Russian troops. An ad
dition to the Russians have progressed
on the line of the Sereth river as well
as along the Zolota Lipa, taking im
portant ground in the vicinity of Bro
dy and Monasterzka an several vll
j la bob.
I The taking of Stanislau, which VI
I enna says was evacuated without
'fighting, opens anotner gateway
' through which the Russians may ad
' vance toward Lemberg. Already, Pe
jtrograd says, the Austro-Germans are
' being pursued toward Halich, a rail-
way Junction north of Stanislau on the
jDniEter river. Petrograd announces
the capture of 5,000 more German
iAusiro prisoners.
; Bouth of Oorizin, along the river
' Tsonzo, the Italians have occupied the
Whole Dobcrdo plateau, the scene of
much desperate fighting in additron
to driving the Austrians east of the
Vallone line and capturing several
tfivrs in the direction of Triest.
Fast of Gorizin the Italians have not
m't with as much success as in the
Ffi'th. Rome officially reports the
Arstrians to be holding out in trenches
' on the line of Mont San Gabrlele and
' Mount Sanarto. .
LONDON BOARD OF TRADE
TO WIND UP HORST CO.
Has Decided That It is an Enemy Con
cern. London, August 11, 6 p. m. The
' board of trade has decided to wind
. up the affairs of the liorst company,
' on the ground that it is an enemy con
f cem. D. B. Partello, of Chicago, who
was said by officials of the company to
j be In control of the concern, appeared
I before the board and said the control
! lay in the hands of American British
stockholders. It understood other
companies in which Mr. Partello is
' concerned will meet a similar fate,
j Mr. Partello, was represented in tho
' hearings, by Janus M. Keck of New
York, former assistance attorney gen
eral of the United States. Before the
, war the Horst company was under
I control of Mr. Partello's brother-in-j
law. Baron Lewis Von Horst of Co
j burv, Germany, who was arrested soon
after the outbreak of the war as an
alien citizen and returned. It is un-
derstood the baron had heavy interests
j in other companies which are now
I claimed by Mr. Partello. The Ameri
I can consulate has been asked to in
; tervene on the ground that the com
pany Is now controlled by American
capital.
The board of trade began proceed
ings in June against the Hop Fxtract
oormpany and the Horst company, in
; tha organization of which Baron Von
: Horst, who formerly lived in Califor
j nia, was concerned. In addition to Mr.
Partello, other directors of these com-
panies in the United States are Lil
1 lian Scott Troy and her father, Pat
rick Troy, of San Francisco.
LORD ROBERT CECIL
ON BRITISH BLACKLIST
i Allies Not Likely to Change Because
of Neutral Protests.
1 London, Aug. 11. "Personally I can
not see any way by which we can
forego our right to prevent our sub
jects from provided resources of trade
to our enemies, said Lord Robert Ce
cil, minister of war today in address
ing American newspaper correspond
ents, the latest developments in Great
Britain's economic warfare,
t "There is not likely to be any change
in the policy of tin' allies as a result
of neutral protests," he continued,
i Italy by her action is merely follow
; ing the policy outlined at the Paris
j conference."
Lord Robert confirmed reports pub
; lished in financial circles, that out
t standing contracts cf British insur
j ance companies with firms on the Brit
ish blacklist will not be interfered
with by the government.
BOY INSTANTLY KILLED
BY AN AUTOMOBILE
3! Yean Old Wandered Into Street
While Mother Was Putting Baby
t to Sleep.
Hartford, Conn., Aug. 11.--While
Mrs. John Chiesa of Park avenue, just
over the West Hartford town line was
j putting her baby to sleep, this morn-
I ing. her little son, John, three and a
half years old, wandered out into the
I street and was run down and instantly
killed by an automobile truck, driven
J by Wesley Parkhurst. The driver
claims he did not see the child until
' it was too late. Parkhurst. whose
(home is in Altman, X. Y., had secured
employment with a West Hartford
a New York license, but when arrested
by the West Hartford police, had no
Connecticut, license.
of Lemberg, Has Been
the Russians
The British forces have been compar
atively inactive. The French have
captured additional German trenches
near Maupres and fortified quarry
north of the Hem wood. The French
also established a new line on the
ridge south of Maupas and have taken
two small woods norm of the Hem
wood.
On the Balkan front Anglo-French
have attacked the Bugarians and oc
cupied the Doiran railway station,
forty miles northwest of Saloniki, ac
cording to unofficial advices.
Petrograd .admits the evacuation of
Kamadaji. Persia, under the pressure
of Turkish attacks.
BRITISH STEAMSHIP
RESCUED 29 SAILORS
Crew of an Italian Steamship That
Was Sunk in the Mediterranean.
Galveston, Texas, Aug. 11. The
British steamship Normandier, which
arrived here today from Genoa, reports
having rescued twenty-nine members
of the crew of the Italian stearrship
Anglo, which had been sunk in the
Mediterranean and landing them at
Algiers. The Normandier also brought
a report of the sinking in the Medi
terranean of a German submarine de
scribed as having two conning towers.
The dates of these occurrences were
not supplied.
MARINES MARCHED 76
MILES IN 24 HOURS
Between Monte Christi and Santiago,
Santo Domingo.
Washington, Aug. 11. What is be
lieved to have been one of the longest
tropical hikes ever made by Ameri
can troops thrown on their own re
sources in a hostile country was the
hike made by the Eighth company,
Fourth regiment, of United States
marines, when it covered, in a day
and a night, on July 2 and 3, the 111
gilometers between Monte Christi and
Santiago, Santo Domingo, after fight
ing most of the way. It id 75 Ameri
can miles between the two points and
the hike was the third longest ever
made by the United States marine
corps under any circumstances that
approached warfare.
With a handful of United States
marines, Cclonel Pendleton maintain
ed unbroken an X0-mile line of com
munication, and the quick settling of
the Dominican trouble is probably due,
in the opinion of marine corps offi
cials, to the rapid hiking of the ma
rines to the interior of the country.
Tho natives have been disarmed and
there is no further fighting.
The expeditionary force under Col
onel Pendleton of the carine corps
consisted of two regiments of marines.
RUMORS THAT BREMEN
IS APPROACHING NEW YORK.
Vessels Shift to "Make Docking Space
for Her.
Xew York, Aug. 11. Persistent ru
mors current in shipping circles that
the German submarine Bremen was
approaching this port, or submerged
outside the harbor, were followed by
the discovery this afternoon that one
of the Xorih German Lloyd merchant
ships at Hoboken had been shifted to
another pier, leaving decking space in
which it was suggested that the
Bremen might be berthed. Two barges
were moored near by as if in readi
ness to form a.n enclosure for the sub
marine, as was done in the case of the
Deutschland.
ATLANTIC FLEET HAS
RETURNED TO NEWPORT
After Maneuvers in Long Island and
Block Island Sounds.
Newport, R. I., Aug. 11. The Atlan
tic fleet which has been maneuvering
under simulated war conditions in the
waters adjoining Long Island and
Block Island sounds since Monday, re
turned here today. The battleships
several times engaged in defensive
operations against day and night sub
marine attacks. The official decision
as to the advantage in these encoun
ters has not been announced.
The fleet will put to sea again Sat
urday night to decide a more exten
sive problem.
ANOTHER EFFORT TO
REACH ELEPHANT ISLAND
Relief Ship Discovery to Sail Fron
Port Stanley, Faulkland Islands.
London, Aug. 11, 2.40 a. m. The
Antartic relief ship Discovery which
has been placed at the disposal of the
British admiralty for use in the effort
to rescue the marooned men of Sir Er
nest Shakleton's expedition on Ele
Island. sailed from Plymouth sound
last night for Port Stanley, Faulkland
Islands. Sir Ernest will embark on
the Discovery at that point in another
effort to reach Elephant Island.
DAMP WEATHER CAUSE
OF INFANTILE PARALYSIS.
Diseie Common in China Under Simi
lar Atmospheric Conditions.
New York, Aug. 11. Infantile paral
ysis is not considered especially dan
gerous in China, where it has been
known for centuries and where it is
attributed to a hot oiimaie and at
mospheric condition. Dr. Lee Hang Gee
and Dr. Yuen Hock Ting reported to
Health Commissioner Emerson today.
The Chinese physicians made their re
port following an investigation of
cases of the disease now being treated
in hospitals. They reached the con
clusion that the disease here is no dif
ferent from that known in China. The
atmospheric condition responsible for
the epidemic is known in China as
"wong sah," they assert, and is simi
lar to the "Bermuda high" which re
cently passed over the eastern states.
Their report says that the peculiar
atmosphere reeked the pores of young
children, bringing on blod pressure,
with the result that the circulation be
comes sluggish and the limbs cease to
perform their functions.
Health Commissioner Emerson said
tonight that the appointment of patho
logical study differs some from that of
the occidental physicians and that he
did not care to make a statement. Im
provement in hosrital cases treated by
blood ferum was reported again today,
but difficulty is being experienced in
obtaining enough of the serum. The
amount obtainable is but a very small
fraction of what is really needed.
Dr. Leroy Vale, 30 years old, of
Flushing, L. I., employed by a life in
surance company, was taken to a hos
pital today with infantile paralysis.
He returned yesterday from a vaca
tion in Hartford, Conn.
FOLKETHING DEBATES SALE
OF DANISH WEST INDIES
Opposition Speakers Severely Criti
cised the Government.
Copenhagen, Aug. 11, via London,
Aug. 12, 1.33 a. m. The Folkething
today continued the debate on the sale
of the Danish "West Indies islands to
the United States. Many of the mem
bers took part in the debate. The op
position speakers severely criticised
the government for issuing repeated
denials that negotiations for the sale
of the islands were in 'progress. Some
of the speakers alleged that these de
nials were made by two cabinet min
isters to newspaper men almost up to
the. day the question of the sale was
submitted to the riKsdag.
The opposition speakers ropeatedly
ol'fered the suggestion that the popu
lation of the islands should be allow
ed a referendum on the proposed sale.
Replying to this argument the minis
ter of foreign affairs said that during
the negotiations he had asked the
American government whether it was
favorable to such a referendum and
that the American government refused
to sanction it. He added, however,
that he was willing to bring' the mat
ter again to the attention of the Unit
ed States, although he was not sure
that he could succeed in obtaining its
consent to such a proceeding.
The debate will continue tomorrow
and a vote may be reached in the ev
ening. HUGHES DECLARES FOR
A PROTECTIVE TARIFF
Addressed a Chautauqua Audience in
a Tent at Billinss, Mont.
Billings. Mont., Aug. 11. Charles E.
Hughes, addressing a. Hughes, ad
dressing a Chautauqua audience in a
big tent here tonight, prefaced his ad
vocacy of the protective tariff with the
declaration that if he should be elecf
ed president, nothing would be "pull
off" for private benefit at the public
expense if he could prevent it. Mr.
Hughes also adopted a democratic slo
gan of the 191J campaign "pitiless
publicity." "I desire in all that we
do in this campaign," Mr. Hughes said,
to have what was called a little while
ago, four years ago, 'pitiless publicity.'
1 want pitiless publicity with respect
to the pork barrel and with respect
to the sectionalism and extravagance
and wastefulness of this administra
tion. "I want .pitiless policy with respect
to the appointees of the next admin
istration. Let us see that we have
America first in the hearts of every
American, no matter what his race or
creed may be, and America equal to
her tasks America efficient."
Mr. Hughes also condemned the ad
ministration for Its views on tariff in
1912, and declared himself in favor of
a prospective tariff whose enactment
and enforcement should be left to the
republican party.
WILL OF E. D. JORDAN
FILED FOR PROBATE.
New England Conservatory of Music
Gets $100,000.
Boston, Aug. 11. The sum of $100,
000, to be used toward the reduction
of its mortgage, was bequeathed to the
Xew England Conservatory of Music
under the will of E-ben D. Jordan, filed
for probate today. The rest of the
estate, the value of which is estimated
at several million dollars, was left to
his family. Mr. Jordan was presioerii
of the conservatory and built the Bos
ton opera house some years ago as a
heme for grand opera in Xew England.
NEW YORK DEMOCRATS
FAVOR JUDGE SEABURY.
Choice for the Party Nomination for
Governor.
Saratoga Springs, X. Y., Aug. 11.
Samuel Seabury cf Xew York, judge of
the court of appeals, was the express
ed choice of the unofficial democratic
state conference for party nomination
for governor tonight. On a roll call
by counties to learn the sentiment of
the conference. Judge Seabury received
the support of an overwhelming ma
pority of the delegates.
Sea Captain Died at the Wheel.
Newport. R. I., Aug. 11. Captain
Walter A. Harzard of Providence, cap
tain of the excursion steamer "What
Cheer" for years, died of apoplexy to
day as he was at the wheel. The body
was brought ashore here.
UP TO THE LEADERS
The Only Hope for a Peaceful Settle
ment Rests Upon the Possibility of
the Men Accepting a New Form of
Arbitration.
New TS-'k, Aug. 11. Whether the
leaders of 400.000 employes of the rail
roads of the country will make good
their threat of a general strike unless
their demands for an eight hour day
ana time and a half for overtime are
granted by the managers of 235 rail
road systems, probably will be known
THE CHEAPNESS AND EFFECTIVENESS OF
ADVERTISING
When one of those little 25 cent want ads is sent in to The Bul
letin by you, you have contracted for an address to over 25,000 people
with an average of five readers to each copy to 45,000 and there are
no personal expenses or hotel bills for your agent.
The cheapest and most efficient travelling salesman there is an
advertisement that never wearies, and that is ready to bo read at the
convenience of everyone concerned.
Any other kind of a travelling salesman would require a dollar or
two to start with, and 25 cents to pay for the first cold lunch eaten.
Advertising in a paiper which circulates 9,000 daily should cost twice
as much as the same advertisement in a paper circulating 4,500 daily;
but it doesn't; and that Is the reason it is cheaper to advertise in the
paper of largest circulation it does most work for the money is the
most desirable bargain.
This is apparent upon the face of the statement it needs no ar
gument. The Bulletin has a certified circulation in accord with its an
nouncement; and advertisers do not have to accept the word of the
management, for disinterested parties have inspected the books and
made their certified report:
Give the matter your personal attention Mr. Advertiser because it
will pay you to do so.
The Bulletin is an eagerly sought for associated press-paper and
has a clientele of thrifty people.
Following is a summary of the news printed during the past
week;
Bulletin Telegraph Local General Total
Saturday, Aug. 5.. 167 154 1087 1408
Monday, Aug. 7.. 170 115 246 531
Tuesday, Aug. 8.. 175 129 ' 252 556
Wednesday, Aug. 9.. 147 134 272 553
Thursday, Aug. 10.. 6 140 262 563
Friday, Aug. 11.. 172 222 204 598
Totals 992
tomorrow, it was learned here tonight
from an authoritative source.
New Form of Arbitration.
The only hope of a peaceful settle
ment rested tonight upon the possi
bility that the men might be induced
to accept a new form of arbitration,
although thus far they have stead
fastly refused such proposals. ' Their
chief objection to arbitration has been
lack of representation upon any of the
boards provided under existing sta
tutes. The members of the federal
beard of mediation and conciliation
are said to hope that an expansion of
the size of the board provided for
miner the X'ewlands act may meet
this objection. Efforts to obtain from
Washington approval of this plant
was reported to have been responsible
for an apparent suspension of the
mediators' activities today.
Appeal to President as Last Resort.
If this suggestion is not accepted, it
was said, the mediation board will
have failed in its efforts and the only
recourse will be an appeal to Presi
dent Wilson to use his influence to
avert a strike. It wn pointed out,
however, that the president's powers
will be limited to suggestion and rec
ommendation. RULING OF FEDERAL COURT
ON NATIONAL GUARDSMEN
May Enable 50,000 Now Mobilized 'to
Obtain Their Release.
Washington, Aug. 11. The war de
partment has accepted from a recent
federal court decision handed down
bv Judge Dodge in Boston which some
officials here believe might enable 50,
000 national guardsmen held for ser
vice under the recnt mobilization or
der to obtain releases. Brief tele
graphic outlines of the opinion in the
court held one of the militiamen who
declined to take the new oath under
the recent national defense action be
held for service under the old Dick
act. A full copy is expected to reach
the department tomorrow, when le
gal officers will bo able to calculate
more .precisely its full scope.
DATA ON SUBMARINE
ATTACK ON PETROLITE
Assembled for Transmission to Austri
an Foreign Office.
Washington, Aug. 11. The state de
partment has assembled for, transmis
sion to the Austrian foreign office ad
ditional data regarding the Austrian
submarine attack on the American
tanker Petrolite supporting the charge
of the Petrolite's captain that the at
tack was made in violation of inter
national law. The United States al
ready has demanded an apology, pun
ishment of the submarine commander
and reparation. The new presentations
are expected to go forward next week.
SERIOUSLY BURNED BY
A HIGH TENSION WIRE
Harry Cyr of New Haven Burned
From Waist Up.
Stamford, Conn., Aug. 11. Hariy
Cyr, of Xew Haven, a lineman, was
seriously burned while at work on the
New Cam-an branch of tho Xew Hav
en railroad by coming in contact with
a high tension electric power wire.
He is burned from his waist up. At
the hospital it was said that while his
condition is serious it is not necessari-
' ly fatal. He is 27 years old. ,
RAISE THE RATE OF TAX
Lowest Taxable Class of Income is to
be Assessed Two Per Cent., Instead
of One Surtaxes Are Going to be
Inoreased.
Washington, Aug. 11. Yielding to a
flood of protests from the country and
from senate and house members of
their own party democrats of the sen
ate finance committee re-considered
today their decision to lower the ex
emption in the income tax law from
$4,000 to $3,000 for married and sin-
894 2323 4209
gle persons to $3,000 and $2,000 respec
tively, but voted to make the rate of
tax on the lowest taxable class of in
come two per cent, instead of one per
cent.
Had the committee declined to yield
on the amendment the caucus demo
cratic senate probably would have re
versed it. The amendment increasing
the surtax on incomes exceeding $2,
000,000 from ten to 13 per cent, is re
tained and there is a probability that
further increases in the surtaxes will
be made in caucus.
Tonight the democratic caucus con
tinued consideration of committee
amendments and had before it the
proposal agreed on by the committee
late in the day striking out the spe
cific excise taxes on munition manu
facturers and substituting a 10 per
cent, net profit tax on the profits of
all manufacturers of munitions and
wares that enter into munitions.
Increase Salaries of Tariff Board.
The committee also adopted today
an amendment increasing the salar
ies of members of the proposed tariff
board from $7,500 to $10,000 each. As
revised by the committee the bill
would yield an estimated annual rev
enue of $19-8,000,000 as against $210,-
000,000 as it passed the house.
The net decrease is due to the change
in the munitions tax, the house meth
od providing for $72,000,000 and the
senate plan $45,000,000.
EVIDENCE THAT BLACK TOM
FIRE WAS INCENDIARY
Obtained From Witnesses by Govern
ment Agents and Assistants.
Jersey City, X. J., Aug. 11. Evi
dence that the great Black Tom explo
sion and fire on July SO and the fire
in the Claremont freight yards a week
afterwards both were incendiary, was
said tonight to have been obtained
from many witnesses by government
agents and assistants of Robert S.
Hudspeth, prosecutor of Hudson coun
ty. The prosecutor's men have learned,
it was said, that the tremendous ex
plosion in which several lives and
millions of dollars in property were
lost, resulted from a fire which started
in the Lehigh Valley railroad yards
just east of the National Storage com
pany's warehouse and not on barges
tied to piers, as was first reported.
Axel Larsen and Earling Davison,
held here on suspicios of complicity
in the Black Tom explosion, could not
be identified tonight by John Hayes,
watchman and Peter Kelly, private de
tective, both employed by the Lehigh
"Valley railroad, as the men they had
seen running away from a burning
freight car shortly before the explo
sion. The men will be released to
morrow. THREE MEN ARRESTED
AS LOTTERY AGENTS.
Were Taken Into Custody in Bridge
port Early Yesterday.
Bridgeport, Conn., Aug. 11. Three
men were arrested here today charged
with benig agents for a lottery said to
be conducted by Gabrielle Bove of
Paterson, N. J. Bove is under arrest
in that city. James P. iMcXamara, 27
years old, was ta-ken into custody here
early today, accused of being the prin
cipal agent in this city, and later Er
nest Ross, SO, and Albert J. Richards,
36, were arrested on a similar charge.
McNamara and Ross were released on
bail, but Richards was unable to fur
nish security. The three men will have
a hearing tomorrow In the city court.
Secretary McAdoo approved the de
signs for the new silver 50, 25 and. 10
cent pieces.
Thirty children are undergoing the
Pasteur treatment in Buffalo because
of dog bites.
Two new cases of infantile paralysis
were reported to the Waterbury health
department Friday.
William Fitzsiner of New York was
drowned while bathing in the Harlem
river at Kingsbridge.
W. P. G. Harding was designated by
President Wilson as governor of the
federal reserve board.
Fire destroyed the building of Claw
son & Co., spice importers, of Phila
delphia at a loss of $200,000.
Edmund Keeney, four years old,
died of infantile paralysis at the Xew
Haven hospital yesterday.
Bradley W. Palmer of Boston, has
been elected to the board of directors
of the Aetna Explosives Co.
Cone Johnson, solicitor of the state
department, announced his intention to
resign before the end of the year.
Theodore H. Banks, of New York,
was elected a vice president of the
American Exchange Xational Bank.
A campaign for improvement in Xew
York harbor is to be begun by the
Chamber of Commerce of Xew York.
One hundred thousand dollars in
gold coin has been withdrawn from
the sub-treasury for shipment to Spain.
Great Britain has reached an agree
ment with Germany for the exchange
of all interned civilians over 45 years
of age.
Craig S. Mitchell, of Philadelphia,
noted cricketer and former coach of
the University of Pennsylvania foot
ball team, is dead.
President Braz at Rio Janeiro, sign
ed a decree creating a Brazilian con
sulate at Buffalo, X. Y. Pedro Xunes
was named consul.
A score of persons were injured,
when a double explosion, caused by
short circuits, wrecked a Halstead
street car at Chicago.
Twelve persons who participated in
tho attempt to wreck the office of II
Progresso, an Italian newspaper, on
July 29, were indicted.
Chicago won the 1916 championship
of the union printers national baseball
league at Indianapolis, Ind., by de
feating Cleveland 7 to 5.
The government has accepted an
invitation to participate in the natu
ral products exposition to be held in
Texas during October next.
Dr. M. C. Dunn, president of the
Henderson School Board of Hender
son, Ky., was shot dead by Charles
M. Wyne, a carriage worker.
More than 300 delegates will attend
the national convention of the Phi
Sigma Chi Fraternity, which will be
held in Toledo, beginning Aug. 16.
Moses Strudler, of N'ew York, a but
ter and egg dealer, was sent to the
workhouse for ten days for interfer
ing with a health department inspec
tor. The steamship Hawaii, which was
placed in quarantine on Aug. 3 on ac
count of the discovery of 15 cases of
cholera on board, left Yokohama, for
Tacoma.
Mrs. Mary Lynch, 76 years old,
burned to death in her home at Xo.
209 East 44th street. Her clothing
caught fire while she was preparing
brtytkfast.
S. C. Conover, of Dayton, Ohio, a
clerk in the office of Major-General
Funston, shot himself and was found
dead in the room at a hotel at San
Antonio, Tex.
Fire threatened the mammoth plant
of the Remington Arms & Ammunition
Co., at Bridgeport, Conn., when three
dairy barns of the Barsky Dairy Co.
were destroyed.
Miss Edith Bramson, of Troy, N. Y.,
was killed and four companions in
jured when their automobile skidded
on the wet pavement at Troy and
crashed into a telegraph pole.
American traders in Holland have
decided to protest to Great Britain
against England's imposition of in
creased difficulties on commerce be
tween Holland and the United States.
Republicans of the senate, in con
ference, declined to accept the legis
lative program submitted by the dem
ocrats' steering committee with a view
to adjournment of congress before
Sept. 1.
The body of William Costigan, of
New Haven," who-was drowned recent
ly while swimming in New Haven
harbor off Lighthouse Point, was re
covered today in Long Island Sound
off Milford.
Three sailors of German cruisers in
terned at Norfolk, Va., who escaped by
swimming across a creek separating
the German quarters from the United
States marine. exercising grounds, have
been captured.
The Thirteenth Pennsylvania has
been called into the federal service
and ordered to the Mexican border to
replace the Second Pennsylvania In
fantry, recently reorganized into a
field artillery regiment.
General William C. Gorgas, U. S.
A., head of the yellow fever commis
sion" of the Rockefeller Foundation, ar
rived at Bogota, Columbia, with his
staff to consult with the government
on sanitary conditions. ,
The Dutch steamship Oldambt, of
252 tons register, one of 'the smallest
freighters that have ever attempted
the crossing of the Atlantic, is on her
return voyage to Rotterdam., with a
cargo? of 96 tons of American tobacco
.
President Gives Up Week-end Trip.
Washington, Aug. II. President Wil
son gave up his plan for a week-end
trip on the Mayflower, because he ex
pressed the desire for a settlement
and agreed to use his influence should
the situation require it.
HUGHES IS COMMENDED
National Woman's Party in Executive
Session Congratulated the Progres
sive! Prohibition and Socialist Par
ties. Colorado Springs, Col., August 11.
The National Woman's party in execu
tive conference here today pledged it
self to use its best efforts in the 12
suffrage states to defeat the demo
cratic candidate for president, con
gratulated the progressive, prohibition
and socialist parties upon their in
dorsement of satisfaction for women
by national action and commended the
position of Charles Evans Hughes, the
republican nominee.
BRYAN REPLIES TO
CRITICISMS OF HUGHES.
Says He Enforced Civil Service Law
to the Letter.
Kansas City, Mo., Aug. 11. William
J. Bryan, former secretary of state,,
replied here today to criticisms of his
attitude toward civil service made by
Charles E. Hughes, the republican
presidential nominee, in a statement
in which he said he had "enforced the
civil service law to the letter." Mr.
Bryan challenged the republican nom
inee to state whether he had given
appointments to "deserving republi
cans" while governor of New York.
The statement was made in answer
to recent speeches of Mr. Hughes
which quoted a letter Mr. Bryan had
written to Receiver of Customs Vick
in Santo Domingo inquiring as to what
positions could be obtained to "reward
deserving democrats." Mr. Bryan ad
mitted the letter as it had been quoted.
"I am not ashamed of it," the state
ment read. "The letter was written to
an appointive officer whose office was
not under the civil service and the in
quiry was made in regard to offices
which were not under the civil service."
The statement, after declaring Mr".
Hughes to have shown himself -quite
prompt in discharging obligations, de
clares: "As an official I enforced the civil
service law to the letter and upon my
resignation received from the em
ployes in the state department, more
than 90 per cent, of whom were under
the civil service, a watch which 1
prize as a priceless treasure. But
while I observed the civil service law
wherever it was in force, I felt myself
free to aid in rewarding deserving
democrats wherever it could be done
without detriment to the service.
"The 'deserving democrat' is not to
be despised he is as much entitled
to recognition as a 'deserving republi
can.' "
PRESIDENT IS CONSIDERING
A TRANSCONTINENTAL TRIP
Has Received Invitations to Speak in
All Parts of the Country.
Washington, Aug. 11. President
Wilson is seriously considering a
tians-continental campaign. Con
gressional callers at the White housa
today gained the impression that he
virtually had decided on such a step,
but officials said later mat his plans,
of campaign were still uncertain and
depended largely upon congress.
Invitations for the president ta
speak in all parts of the country were
placed in file. Some of his advisers
are urging him strongly to cross thfl
continent, but others believe he should
spend most of the time during tha
campaign at his home, Shadlow Lane,
N. J., and at the same time keep in
close touch with the government de
paitments in Washington.
Hsnator Phelan ot California caned
todav to ttrse the president to go a!
far west as California and received
tt-ord that a definite reply could be
expected in about two weeks. By thai
time the president expects that it will
be definitely known when congres
will adjourn.
Democratic leaders Insisted toaa?
that the campaign trip of Charles R
Huehes. the republican nominee, would
have no effect on the president's plans,
The president today completed his
speech of acceptance or tne democra
tic nomination. It will be shorter that
that delivered by Mr. Hughes and II
addition to replying to the criticismi
of the republican nominee will review
in detail the legislative achievents ol
the administration.
FEDERAL INQUIRY IF
BREAD PRICES GO UP.
Chairman Hurley of Trade Commis
sion Already Making Investigation.
Washington. Aug. 11. Statement)
made at the recent convention In SaJ
Lake City of the Xational Associatioi
of Master Bakers that tne price a
bread to the consumer would be iixi
creased in the near future have ati
tracted the attention of the federq
trade commission. Edward M. Hurles
chairman, has been authorized to mak)
an informal investigation of the eitua,
ticn in Chicago, headquarters of th(
association. He went to Chicago yes
terday.
It was said at the offices of the com
mission today that shottid the lncreaa
materialize a formal investigation ts
determine the causes might result.
THTRTEEN NEW CASES "
OF INFANTILE PAR AYS H
Salem, Colchester and Waterford Ra
port New Cases.
Hartford, Conn., Aug. . 11'. tDrtrteej
new cases of infantile paralysis wef
reported to tne state neaiia puara, ra
day, four from Bridgeport, four fro)
tisamrora ana one eaca irom fltneunii
Huntington, Salem, 'Colchester art
Waterford. The total in the state. 1
now 251. Dr. J. T. Black forwaasja
to all the local health officers in tH
state, today, blang forms to be gfcveaft
physicians for a history of eaoh Tfl
fantile paralysis "case reported. SJhes
blanks when filled, are to he rertrttna
to local health officers jand theno 131
state authorities, the envelopes, beigi
franked for that purpose, through ai
rangements with the federal authori
ties. Information, particularly., is asl)
ed of cases traceable to New" York cltj
