S$tm.
E WEATHER FORECASTS I W A V.vWXW M ff
Fair to-day, preceded by showers; to-
morrow fair; continued warm.
Highest temperature yesterday, 69 j lowest, 6t.
Detailed weather, mall and marine reports on page 10.
IT SHINES FOP, ALL
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 347.
ONE CENT
In Clreater New York,
Jersey t'lly and Newark,
f Rl.ewhere
I TMO t'B.NT.e,
NEW YORK, SATURDAY, AUGUST 12, 1916. Copyright. 116, by tht Sun Printing u..rl PublUhing ,L.ocfnlton.
SEABURY WSSSId
iflmniflni a aiu
FOR GOVERNOR
Expected Opposition to Can
didate Fails to Materi
alize at Saratoga.
TICKET IS PICKED;
MAY BE CHANGED
Murtagh and Conway Will
Put Up Fight to Gain
Flaees.
PLATFORM ASSAILS
WHITMAN WASTE
Extravagance and Favorit
ism Charged to His
Administration.
Saiutog HrtUNOs, K. Y.. Aug,
n.-
Samuel Seabury of New York, Judge
of the Court of Appeal", was the ex
pressed choice of the unofficial Demo
cratic Stntc conference for the party
for nomination for Governor to-night.
On a roll ll by counties to learn the
sentiment of the conference. Judge
Seabury received the support of an
overwhelming niajorltv of the dele
gates. The Tammnny crowd dropped the
Muff
of make believe opposition to
Juctlco Seabury and went Joyously to j
the task of handicapping him for the ,
r.icr The llrst effort resulted In a I
mie f I'ket tlinl rend like thhr '
Mate t.cKci tnni reau line tnis.
Dovernor, Samuel Seabury,
. " 1
fork.
Lleutenant-riovcrnor, Calvin J. Hu
ron. Yates county.
United States Senator, Thomas P.
Conway. Clinton county.
Comptroller. M. .1. Walsh, Yonkers.
Attnrney-Oencnil. John T. Murtngh,
Elmlra.
State Knglneer, John O'Connor. Al
bany. Associate Justice Court of Appeals.
John T. Norton, Troy.
Ticket Is He lard.
Hcfoie any further candidates could
t fUSKested somebody with a sense of
humor lookell over tile list and asked it
lhe nero naming a State ticket or or
Mtililng a branch of the Sinn Fein.
"neraure," lie ald. "with all those
"harps' on the ticket, even Justice Sea
bury, with an A. P. A. Indorsement,
would not fiull It through."
Justice nf the criticism was admitted
ami the ticket niakera started to revle
'."ir work. There wns some demur on
tl.c part of a few leaders, wlio wanted 1
n know what wns the we nf standing 1
fur a 111 in like Seabury for Uovernor If
tr rould m.t carry a good, stlT load
C
r!n.
Charles F. Murphy Is aald to 'have ,erdav and carefully examined the new ! few mlnules Utci again bit on Samp-i-e,i
ih. enntrnversv In- sidlnir with the ... ii ir ,n,..n..l in be tierfectly i-on's lines, fli's lime the three manaeed
iocates of an International selection.
The ticket as thereafter agreed upon
and as It will look In the campaign pro
vided the enrolled Democratic voters do
rot swat It In the prlmnrles was more
, 1 .... .." ,
r-prf mutative, racially and religiously.
The Democratic Warwick regard It as a
tang up State ticket. This Is It:
Coernor Samuel Seabury, New
Tork.
Lieutenant-Governor Thomas Kreut
Jfr. Syracuse.
Fnited Staies Senator William T.
McCnnihs, New York.
Comptroller Joseph W. Marsters,
Brooklyn,
S'eeretary of State Frank M. Stage,
Iluffa .i.
Alt jrney-tteneral James
Hnrtiell, Steuben county.
Stale Treasurer Morris
A. Parsons,
Cohen, The
It. Bee be.
Brnnx.
Slate Kngineer Henry
inca.
Chief Judge Court of -Appeals Almet
F Jenks, Hrooklyn.
Associate Justice John T. Norton,
Troy.
Chances May Come Later.
There Is to be no official announce
ment of these candidates for tlie jires
fnt, as the leaders may have to change
the list In one or two particulars. There
! a chance that Frederick Collin may be
reeornmemled Instead of Almet F.-Jeuks
fir rhlef Judge of the Court of Appeals.
The conference came to an end at
II 50 P. M. The delegates for the most
;a t wrs In good humor. The roll of
counties had been called and each had
kn permitted to express Its preference,
not for Governor only but for any other
office In which It was Interested.
U Is well understood Tammany will
e fur William F. McCombs, former
T'tinncratlc national chairman, for
Vnlle,) states Senator, but It Is said It
has no (pedal Interest In him and cares
ll'tle whether he or Osborn or Conway
wlrs the nomination.
John T Murtagli, the former Slate
fonatnr. still Is fighting ror the Attor
ney.(ieneralshlp nomination, and Nell
llrfwster of Syracuse Is contesting the
place of State Kngineer.
Then there Is the case of Thomas F,
onu (y, the ("Union county leader, who
has no Intention, his friends say, to per
'nli Murphy and his Tammany lleuten
mils iierlde his fate, Conway, always
n anti-Tammany Democrat, expected to
he tinned down by tlie star chamber
conference and had his preparations
ir.:itin ior a pnmai y nght
on way will disregard the gentlemen's
sreeinrnt of candidates and run aralnit
William Church Oaborn In the September
vunianca.
Conway la Indorsed
Delegates representing ten counties,
rmey Ht, Lawrence, Steuben, Clinton,
'.rmutHiiqoa, Kssex, Cattaraugus, Ca.
yuga, Livingston, Warren and Schuyler,
m a majority of the State committee
nu-n from Franklin county, met In tha
ijrarci Union this afternoon and In-
eorsed Conway for unltad Statea 8na-
'"r. The former Ueutenant-Qovernor
premised to makt a vlforou conttit
Continue en thjr4 fug ,
Clamor Throughout Country Forces Senate Democrats
to Reverse Their Decision in War Revenue Bill
Ten Per Cent. Munition Levy Approved.
Washington, Aug. 11. Yielding to a I trlrigu loaded and unloaded, caps or
flood of protests from the country and " liners, projectiles, shells or torpedoes
from Senate and House members of their
own party, Democrats of the .Senate
Finance Committee reconsidered to-day
their decision to lower the exemption In
tho Incomo tax law from $4,000 to
11,000 for married and single person
to $3,000 and $2,000. reictlvely, but
voted to matte the rate of tax on the
lowest taxable class of Income 2 per
cent. Instead of 1 per cent.
Had the committee declined to yield
on the amendment, the Democratic
Senate cnucus probably would have re
versed It. Tho amendment Increasing
the surtax on Incomes exceeding $2,000,
000 from 10 to 13 per cent. Is retained,
and there Is a probability that further
Increases In the surtaxes will be made
In caucus.
To-night the Domocratlc caucus con
tinued consideration of committee
amendments and had before It the pro
pos.il, agreed on by tho committer late
In the day, striking out the specific ex
cise taxes on munition manufacturers
and substituting a 10 percent, net profit
tax on the profits of nil manufacturers
of munitions and wares that enter Into
munitions. The text of the amendmen'
follows :
That every corporation mamifactur
Ins gunpowder and other explosive,
GIRAFFE WILL SAIL
TO HARLEM IN BOX
Fifteen Foot Denizen of Afri
can Wilds to Be Taken to
Bronx Zoo.
Early risers in Harlem who nee a lofty
edifice sailing along the Harlem Tllver
nnd Westchester Creek needn't think It
a skyscraper taking a boat ride. It will
be merely the travelling house In which
(ne wg .lrnff!, atcy arrived from
Wee-t Africa to swell the population of
the Bronx Zoo. Is approaching his new
home. -...,, t
It's some Job to transport a fifteen foot
,. ,,il... i.,.nin,t. from
Staten Island to llronx Park, rtaymond
' Iltmars. curator of Pronx Park.
K'iniic n .f.,.. 'wif ...
Ul..l.n tala...
passed all of yesterday on the steam
ship Memnon, aboard which the long
necked quadruped came from the tropics,
figuring out how he'd arrange the trip.
The giraffe showed a strong Inclina
tion to remain right there In the Staten
Island dock, but the captain of the Mem
non was equally determined to get rid
of his passenger, and suggested a lighter
up the Harlem Itlver. t daybreak this
morning. In the sixteen foot high crato
In which he weathered the storms of the
ocean, Curator Dltmars's latest acquisi
tion will be loaded on a lighter for the
last stage of his Journey.
Yesterday a carpenter sliced off n
piece from the top of the crate because
of the trolley wires under which the
giraffe must pass after landing from the
lighter at West Farms, on his way to
the Zoo. He thrashed around the eight
foot squnrc space at his disposal In high
1 would not be pnclfled.
The course will De up me iiariem ami
.. . ....... ...., Cnp.H. T
-....i i.vrmi West Farms !
thr .arty will be preceded by a trolley I
repair wagon. Just In case his giraffe-
I 1.1. i,,i i.t nf hi. house and
. , ,, 1,1, head
..'M necj. tangled up with the over- '
f-eail wires.
Bill II lUnn " 1
Curator Dltmars cumneu a lauuer e-
"l'" ... h,,... - - . . '
well exceut Vm temper, and the curator I
hones the tender young grass nt llronx I
Park and the companionship of the staid
elderlv alraffe who will welcome him to
the Zoo will calm his turbulent emotions.
DID ASQUITH REPLY TO U. S.?'
( lanse '
"Vntlnn" Itefers to 1'enrr
Not of Knrope Alone."
I.ONI.ON. Aug. 11. Tno .imoii
this
week calls attention to the hitherto little
noticed clause In Premier Asciulth's
speech of August 4 In which he referred
to the safeguards against war as resting
on the common will of Kurope, but not
of Kurope alone."
Tlie .Viiffow asks whether this Is a re
ply to President Wilson's speech of May
27 ana an inviiniion iu aihoii e-.-sue
a policy of guarantees, nnd If so
hopes that Foreign Minister Grey wl.l
expand It Into a reasoned exposition of
policy. . . ...
The .Yartoii ibrbb m- ic m.i
Ica Is anxious to mediate because she
TTnrnn. is ruining herself, and
against a weakened Kurope she dreads
the advent of a great Far Eastern Power.
In a speech on May 27 last at the ban.
quet of the League to rcniorce i; in
Washington i-resioeni wueim uiis
that the Dnited States Is willing to be
come a partner In any feasible associa
tion of nations to upnoiu me ri "
small nations and prevent war.
CONSIDINE LEFT BARELY $5,000.
Deredellt's Widow ay He Unit
NolbliiB Uut IVrsoimlO.
George F. Consldlne, tlie hotel man
and spoit promoter who died last Mon
day morning, left an estate of less than
$5,000, according to an application for
letters of administration (lied yesterday
in the Surrogate's uoun oy ine oeceueiu a
widow, Mrs. Alinee Angeies i.uiisinior,
who states that her husband left no
will, and asks that she be appointed nd
mlnlstratrlx of his estate.
The property left by her husband was
all personally, ahe says In her petition.
Annexed to the willow's application are
consents of all or ine inner perron in
terested In the estate to her appoint
ment They are the decedent's brother,
William !!., his sister, Mary Jackson,
and Margaret Consldlne, a daughter by
nn earlier marriage.
CARRANZA IN JAIL, IS REPORT.
Cabinet .Members gala to Have Im
prisoned First Chlrf.
Ki, Paso, Tex., Aug. II, Reports
without substantiation were In clrcula
Hon among Mexicans In KI l'aso nnd
Juarex to-night that Oen. Carrania has
been Imprisoned In Mexico city.
The reports said he had had trouble
with Oen. Alvaro Obregon, his Minister
of War, and other memhera of the Cabi
net, and that they had Imprisoned him
and declared the Cabinet would run the
country. Juarea official! denied any
ltnowledf pt ttaJUKtUk, ..
of any kind. Including ehrnpnel, loaded
or unloaded or fuses or complete rounds
of ammunition, nrearnm of any kind nnd
appendage, Including small arms, can
non, machine ;uns, rifle and bayonets,
electric motor boats, submarines or sub
mersible vessels or boats, any part of i
the articles mentioned, shall pay for
each taxable year an excise tax of 10
per centum uion their entire net profits
actually received or accrued for aald
year from the sale or disposition of such
articles manufactured within the United
states.
"And every corporation selling or
manufacturing any material entering
Into or used as a component part In the
manufacture of any of the articles herein
enumerated shall pay for each taxable
year an excise tax of 10 per centum upon
their net profits Actually received or ac
crued for said yesr from the sale or dis
position of such materials so entered Into
or used an a component part In the
manufacture of the articles enumerated
ns aforesaid.
"Tills section shall cease to be of ef
fect at ths end of one year after the
termination of the present Kurope.in war. i
'which shall be evidenced by the rrocla- I
mation of the President of the United
car-(State declaring such war to have ended.
MITCHEL AS PRIVATE
DRILLS RAW RECRUITS
Puts Bookies at Plattslmrpr
Tliroujrli Tlfeir Paces Busy
Day for Members.
Plattsbit.11. N. T., Aug. U. Private
J. P. Mitchcl. who In civilian life Is
Mayor of New York and at the camp of
military Instruction Is a member of Com
pany H, Ninth Hegiment, was ordered
by his company commander, Capt. Kelly,
to take out a squad of raw recruits and
drill them, as were many other members
of former camps.
Private Mltchel, after properly saluting
Tnnd ord"rc3 !
the squad which he was to instruct to
"fall in." and he then marched them to
a vacant space at the end of the com-
pany street where during the entire fore-
n,.m ihrn.,.h .h.ir nees.
He lias Informed Col. Murray, camp
commander, that he will speclallta In tho
Infantry branch of the service through
out the month he Is In the camp.
The members got tlielr first taste of
real work to-day. They were kept busy
from morning until night.
CAPTURE A 300 POUND SHARK.
Two Wen and Woman I, and Ten
Footer Off Itnrknnny.
A ten foot shark weighing .100 pounds
vas caught after a long Mailt by two
men and a woman fishing off .he Mock-,
""."I" " "-.V"": 'rM'?rd. '.f,J,"r,.n.'?0." .
llar: Sampsiin, his wife and a fran
fleorge Adams of Uay Jthlge, had cast
lines from 11 motorboat at a consider -
able distance from the shore. Suddenly
the line In Sampson's hand was Jerked
violently. He held II tightly and called
t; his wife and Adam for help. In
the strugKle the lLh was brought to the
m . .. .. ..
uriace lor a moment anu inv
wn" :l ;ir?-
s..w It
Finally t'.ie hhark broke loose, but a
to haul ihe shark near enough the b.-at
to despatch It with a boat hook. The
body of tho shark was taken to the
Mom Drydock Company's piers In Sou.h
Hiooklyn, where crowds viewed It.
... ,. ,1,. .l,rl
FREED OF SUICIDE CHARGE.
Wire TnnnliiK gqnad
IHsehnrKed hy Inalstrate,
Detectlvo John J. Kennel of the wire
tapping suuad was discharged yesterday
by Magistrate Murphy, who went to his
beilslde In Volunteer Hospital In con
nection with the charge that Kennel had
attempted suicide.
Muglstrute .Murphy was accomnan ed
by Assistant District Attorney Murphy.
Deputy Police Commissioner Lord and
Thomas Geary, clerk of the Tombs
court.
Kennel told the Magistrate he did not
know what he was doing when tie pulled
the trigger, and said the shooting was
an accident. Kennel shot himself three
weeks ago when the public discussion
of tha methods of the police wire tap
ping squad was at Its height,
GARDENER GIVES $100,000.
f.ale Employee of Old People's
Home nt I'nlon Hill I.envra neqarst
When Ihe will of John Thumnn, who
for years was head gardener at the Fritz
Ileuter Altenhelm, a home for old people
ut I'nlon Hill, N. J., was admitted to
probate eslerda before Surrogate John
P, Kgan In Jersey city It was learned
that the Institution wns the recipient of
n legacy amounting to $tl)n,noo.
While tho gardener lled It was gen
erally believed that he had money, but
no one suspected thnt he bad enough to
make such a bequest to the Institution
where he labored for so many years.
Thuman was 82 when he died on July S
last.
GERMAN LOSSES 3,135.177.
Ilrllaln Klauren Teuton (nauallle.
at 12il,r.-ill In .Inly.
Lonpon, Aug. 11. 'German 1.1.111 titles
during July, according to a table com
plied here from German casualty INI.
totalled 122,540, Tills bllngs tlie gland
toliil since the commencement of Ihe war,
taker from the same sou'ee, to 3, 111.',, 177.
Men Killed or who died of wounds dur
ing July numbered 21,10; those who
died of sickness aggiegated 2,0(12 miss.
Ing, IS, 334 ! severely wounded, 17,807 ;
wounded, 5,fii4 j slightly wounded, ,10,157.
CAPTAIN DIES AT WHEEL.
Victim of Apoplexy on Ills Way to
Xew York,
Nkwpoiit, ft. I., Aug. II Capt Waller
Hasaril of Providence, master of tlie ex
curalon steamer What Cheer for many
years, died of apoplexy to-day as ho wia
at the wheel of his vessel bound for
New York lo dellvtr her to a new owner,
The body was brought ashore here by
yra, ilaaard, who was with her huaband.
MILK TO COST N. Y.
CENT MORE A QUART
Companies Begin a Campnlgu
to Make tlie Consumers
"Save the Farmers."
APPEAL TO HOUSEWIVES
State Officials, Clinrirlnjr
Monopoly, Intend to Force
an Open Market.
Big milk companies began an aggree
slvo campaign yesterdsy to raise the
I Price of milk one cent a quart, mrhtlng
mcir nrst skirmish before the iioite
wlves I.eairue. Their representatives
told the members that ns the farmers
Intended to boost the price of mill; It
would bo necessary for them to add the
Increase to the consumers' bills,
i
While the milkmen were explaining
why the public should be charged with i
this additional burden nf the high cot !
. . . ' "
of living the State Department nf Foods'
, and Markets "was perfecting a plan to
take the monopoly of the milk business'
from the few b, nmfmir.t nt , tam(.
,.. ... , ' ' , .1
time getting the farmer more money for
his product.
John It. Coleman, a lawyer of lini
Hroadway, who was appointed n special1
Attorney-General to Investigate the milk which Is not mentioned In Iord North
companies In 1909 when they attempted despatch hut Is announced of
, , . .... . .. hrlally liy the Italian War Oillce, puts
to raise the price of milk, yesterday told. )h, Italians within twenty miles of
why the milk companies had no reason Trieste. Iird Northcllffe's despatch to
to add to the public burden. Coleman ,n" Ttmrn . In part as follows:
...m k.f ni. . .... "We entered what until lately was
said that the milk companies never had Au,lri.,n .rrory at cormons. and after
given the farmer a fair profit for his pushing our way for an hour and a haK
product, but had made millions of dot-' through clouds nf dust raised by out-
lars themselves. He declared all the '
companies could distribute milk at the
present price, giving the farmer more for
it, and still be making n profit.
Monopoly Drilled.
P. P. Fox, general manager of the
Borden Condensed Milk Company, denied
that any of the companies had a ipo
liooolv of the milk holiness Ills least of
nil, and said -the plan of Ihe State lie-1
nartment of Foods and Markets to take
the business of distribution nway from 1
"'h" b' companies was unwise I
"","h:""", V.i . V, .,mw -r
J Jh ""it tlV 5 S h.v
J"n "'" f t!J.e milk for New York city,
I according to tleorge Illl.lebrand of the
I State Department of Foods ond Markets.
h."' depending on that department to get
them a market for their milk before they
are compelled to renew their contracts
with the companies In October.
The dairymen's league Is now a power
ful orsanixatton. and Is dally becoming
stronger since the farmers tiegan to feel
trey were not being treated Justly hy the
mill: companies. Hlldebrand thoucht
yesterday that before the Wicks Investl
tinting committee Is through Inquiring
Into the ptohlem in each county the
dairymen would be so strongly allied
they nimbi be able to ill lute to the milk
dealer for the first lime.
' . - ,t;V,;V the arnpa Ign to , i
-.Mltlonal expen- on thl con-umer !
The representatives of the milk com
expem-e on the consumer
were I..
I.. Campbell of the Clover
Kanns Company, William J. Curley of
the Locust Farms Company, tleorge W.I
.Mirer or the Sheffield Farms Company
and Samuel Grill of llorden's. They ex-'
plained why the public should be hit
again, talking to Mrs. Kgbert V. S. I
ri",::' ,hr mm
Heath, president, and Miss Rdlth Kh-
ler. vice-president. Hobert Koenbluth
was a neutral representative sent by the
Institute for Public Service,
"Brave Danger" of a trlUr.
The milk men told the women there
was "grave danger" of a strike by up
State farmers If the price of milk was
not raled one cent a quart. That ad-
1 vance, they explained carefully, would
Increase the farmers' Incomes annually
about SS, 000,000. Then it was explained
thnt the milk companies were too poor
in heln ths farmer and therefore would
mv in ilei.en.1 on the N'ew York con-1
sumer giving aid.
The Housewives League thousht It
would lie nn excellent Idea If paper bnt -
ties were used more generally in the
distribution of milk. Cleoige W Alucr
rove with a pained cM,re.slon a- the
suggestion, explaining that such a plan
u.-w innoj.. h W. ns the nrior tif paper
was so high at the present moment
The milk men also complained tint
many housewives were unfair because
they compelled the milk men to bring
the product to their doors, ond then re
turned this efficiency of service by drop,
ping empty milk liottles down dumb
waiter shafts. ...
While complaining of the wives In
sistence on th delivery of milk, the
milk men denied a rumor that the driv
ers wero threatening trouble because
they were compelled to climb too many
tllghts of stairs,
Hlldebrnnd's Vleira.
Mr Hlldebrand held no brief yester
day for the milk men. "Who sirffers
most of the loss when cattle nre con
demned nnd slaughtered 7' he asked.
"The farmers! The old saying that the
consumer eventually pays Iho bills Is
true In some rases and with some
products, but In the ense of milk In
New York city the farmers and consumers
i,n ei. tinthlnir to do with the price,
"The dealers take advantage, of ihe
perishable nature of milk and dictate
Ilia price to the conaumer ns well a.
the farmer, In all product, which are
free Ihe law of demand nnd supply regu
lates the price, but In the case of milk,
no mailer how little the farmer re
i elves, the consumer rays the same pi let
In winter and summer I'nder these
conditions the farmer pays the cost of
Insuring the pure milk supply of New
York city.
"As the Wicks Inventlgntlng commit
tee work goes on we have more and moie
of the same story. Farmers nre not
making hired men's wages at producing
tiillk, and theio Is general discontent
and suspicion.
"The sore spot of the situation now
Is that the milk denlers ran dictate
piicea to both the farmers nnd Ihe
consumers. The dealers have worked
into a position where they monopolize
the business, dictato prices and do as
Ihey please The perishable nature of
Ihe product and Ihe Inability nf Ihe
farmeis to uiiltn for the selling of Ihelr
milk have given the milk dealers con
trol of the situation.
"This situation is apt to endure until
the farmer haa an open market In
New York city for his product. A fair
share of the milk which cornea here
should go Into the open market nnd ho
sold for what It will bring on a com-
CpnlingKi on f curia Pag$,
ITALIANS DRIVE ON
TO CAPTURE TRIESTE
Duke of Aosta Tolls Lord
Xortlicllffe Austrians
Have Weak Defence.
INVADERS BEYOND HOIMTZ
(Jen. Cadorna's Troops Hchiiiiic
March Toward Coveted
Seaport.
fprrlnl C.i,f Itnpnirh tu Tub Sis
I.ONtiov, Aug. 11. The Italians seem
to have few obstacles before them In
their drive to Trieste, the big Austrian
seaport on the Adriatic. Tin- occupa
tion of the entire Dnberdo plateau south
west of Horltx was announced oltlclilly
In ltomo to-day. I.nrd Noi thcllffc talk
ing to the Duke of AoHj In the captured
city yesterday, gof from htm the Impres.
nun unit mi' .tusi, i.uis ri.i ii runip.ii.i-
lively no formidable tine left to defend
Trieste.
, "ur, f.ront Duke of Aosta
! (luolcd ns saying, "I now several
,n,., beyond UorUx and the cavnlrv I
uniting to work "
' "7"" "'" ntlnues
" " tru,"
,n':"f ;""" "ail n"
i iishui mm, minimis i.oru rorm-
Hie Tlmrs,
another strong
line between li s present advnnred line
Trieste, nnd tluiugh his military
prudence precluded a ponltlve reply his
gestures revealed great hopefulness.'
Tho capture of San Mnrtlno del Carso,
fmnK ' "P" " I""
ammunition and fond and Incoming 1
motors of the Croce It-.s-a Italian and
the Ilrltlsh Ited Cross we arrived within
sight of tho Iionzn, bluest of rivers.
"Here we left our car under cover
and walked, sometimes In the open, to
the lower bridge, which the Austrlans
had fortified and then destroyed, and
which the Italians with wonderful
promptness had already repaired. We
examined the Italian and Austrian
trenches, which had been for months
within speaking distance of each other,
So accurate wa the Italian artillery
lire that while their trenches, neatly
lined with steel lattices, were not
touched, those of the enemy, lined with
a kind of wlckerwork, were almost as
badly smashed as the German trenches
on the Somme.
31 any Males In Booty.
"On our left rose Mount Sabotlno, the
key to the formidable OurlU bridgehead.
When last Sunday the mount was taken
b; the ltnllans Its loss, combined with
the terrllllc bombardment that has so
v '". ""Hi i -- -
smiiy marred the charm of Oorllz. caused
the Austrlans to flee How unexpected 1
was the
retreat may be Indited from the". ,J ' ' " ii-"iii"B wir uiparams jn
laden with hot I oils' for the Aus. 'ZVtA f" ,."
fact th,
mules laden
trlun iitllcers' breakfast.
in tlil ,art f Austria the Hun cul
ture has left Its familiar mark on the
rchl.ectur:.l style, a
"eer Indeed, th,
mark as familiar a
''er inueea, tne waiter at our cafe
st'girested waggishly that tho suddenem
"' the Austrian retreat was due to the
scarcity of beer occasioned by the hot
Plainer.
"There was Joyousness !n accompany
lug the triumphant army In Its progress
a strange sense of pleasure In be.
!!:.!:; .':"'.; wn -" ,ie
"No better General for the Dual blow
at Gorltr. could have been selected. I of-!
I i reu mv congratulations In the name of
the Allies, Though worn out bv cun.
tlnuotis righting since Sunday, unshaven,
without sleep, lie was proud and alert.
" 'I hope to do better,' he said.
italianstakFs points.
Ictorlou Army Xow Within SO
Mile, of Trieste.
Home. Aug. n.The Italian drive for
Trieste commenced anew to-day nml
m.'ulo nnn... ..,,ir. ... i
tloas by Iho ltnllans put them twenty
I miles iroin the big Austrian seaport.
l yVar Office announced late this
afternoon that the Italian troops had oc
,.,,,", t" entire Do herdo ,1a eau m uOi-
v eVt ' rCl0 iohr ih.V ..ortt.wLsit
boundary of the O,. so plateau Th
. ,
i liMMViiu II 111.-1 L PC iniK'SLit k-ill-
Trieste can be taken.
Two Important positions wero cap-1 ,.1(rcfu IO prevent accidents near Tea
lured In to-da's operations on thei,,..,.
isunzo irooi. iney are ism .Miuuno ui-i
Catso, Just soulhwest of Monte San Ml
chele, which dominates tlie Doberdo
pleteau and Is already In Italian hands,
and Iluhbla. Itubbla Is on the ratlin. ul
from Gorltr to Monfalcone, and It. almost
directly across the Isonso fiom Gradlsca.
The Italian attack, sweeping nn from
GoriU. has now rrached tho line of the
Vallnne Itlver. Tho Austrlans have
taken up posltiuns east nf the town of
Vallone. Karller III the day lighting
wus going on along a front twelve miles
I tig.
tii.trllin Unreal Klglil Miles.
Tho Austrlans had lelrealed along tli 1 ,,r ,. .National Makers' Ass elation con
rallroad toward Dortibeig, eight miles ,.flnim. statements during the as ela
southeast of Ooritz and over the nu-. tn H convention at Salt Lake city that
tloliul highway to Solum Pas, six miles ,he , r(, 0f bread soon would be in
to the east. There tin y nftcmpted to deased The departments of Agrictiltuie
teform a front from Vlpareo t . Tarneva. ,.,,( ,itCe also are giving atteiitl, n to
Tlie now victories of to-day, the ik'CII- the silbjecl
pylng of nil the Dohcrdo plateau, have'
ulllliHt completely el"iireil the Nillciit "
formed by the bend of Ihe Imiiizo below i SUBWAY SMOKER ARRESTED.
Gorltz. Controlling tills plateau will en-
aide tlie Italians to push rorward towaid tr, ', ii. Pense Lands Mrplien
Trieste southeufcteily San .Muitlno del .......... .. i.. x. i -1. , i....
Cars... which the Italians captui.d ' "'""" ' '" "up'
dav, Is. twenlv miles from Tih.de and A smoking cigarette In the hand ot
six Miuthwi-M of Gorllz. i SI plien Cavanaiigli, a young lawjer. of
Tlie coiiesjiondent of the minimi of West Twenty. second sluel. caught
Home on the Isonzo front estimates that I the ee and stirred the ire of Dr Cliaib-s
Ihe Italians have taken 15.00U prisoners i i Pease, the antl-tobaivn eru-nbT,
uluce the fall of Gotllz. and sajs that I '"'ll sl"."11 111 t,1J 'V1 M',,'f' tU'
many ninie aie bei,K made by patties of ' l" "'e adwa subway late iasl
I In an cavnlrv ami c clNtH that n t e
rleailiw the valley of retreating Austilan
iletachmeuta.
KIiik Victor Con a rain hi ted.
As the news of moro lirtoilee: comes
In popular enthusiasm goes u pitch even
higher than Hint caused by the captine
of Gorllz Itself, Messages, of congrat
ulation nie pnuilng In from nil over Ihu
n oi Id to King Victor Kmmanuel and Gen.
I, nisi Cadorna, the commander In chief,
Many of these messages eaino from Hal
'ana In the United Slates,
The Third Army, under the Duke of
Aosta, which has borne tha hardest ot
tho lighting, has got especial praWe.
The Duke, befoie the battle began, called
on the army to fight and win "In tho
name of your mothers, your wives, your
aiittra and your country,"
ALLIES OPEN BALKAN DRIVE
AND TAKE DOIRAN BY STORM
They Also Capture Heights Near By in Campaign to
Recover Serbia Rumania, It Is Said, Will
Join Entente After Harvest.
Paris, Aug. II. Announcement that
.he allied troop. In Greer, have beg,
their great drive aimed at clearing uer-
mans, Austrian and Uulgars from
Scibla was made huie to-day. The tlrst
move In tills offensive, making the fourth
now In piogreas against the Central Um
pires, nan the capture nf the railroad sta
tion at Dolran, on the southeastern bor
der of Serbia.
In addition to the task of repelling the
Somnie offensive on the west, the llus-isay that It was preceded by u vigorous
sl.,n juggernaut on the east and the Hal-1 r,l"1erlJ'.,r;p1artlon;,l,T!,,i fii'
, ... Kngllsh took by assault the railroad sta-
lun attacrf. which has Just gained UorlU. ,, nve , Pa(lt f 10 tr,wn, and
111 the southwest, the Teutons now fare a then miulo a brilliant dash to tho sum
powerful new offeiilkB In the Ualkans. ' "lit of Hill 227. south of the town.
Kununla, according to the opinion licre The bodies of many Ilulgarlan dead
and In London, will enter the war on the "re found In the captured works, tha
side of ihe Kntente Allies as soon as she despatches say. but make no mention of
feels secuio from being crushed between AiMtllnn or Herman dead, Practically
AuhUU on tho northwest and llulgarU all the Austrian and (lennan troops that
on the south. This security, it Is felt, took part In the Teutonic sweep through
will be gcn her by the move of the K,,,llU, 'nst 'ilj've, been recalled and
Allies at Salonlca. 'nl either to the Husslan or the Italian
fiont,
Walllnv fr the Harvest, 'TYS leaves to Ihe Iiulgarlans, led by
(lermaii officers, the defence of tho con
Reliable Information Ills been received nuereil Kertilati. Montenecrln and Al
to the effect that Rumania Is waiting
only for the gathering of the harvest to
strike at Austria and Dulcnrla.
The attack on Dolran was made by
Anglo-French forces, a part of the 800,
POO men under Gun. Sarrall In tho In
trenched camp of Salonlca. llrsldes cap
turing the station these troops took
heights near by. At the same time the
RIVAL HARLEM GANGS
HOLD STREET BATTLE
ii,.ii tv.ii n ni.i
"- r' lis 01111111 win UU11-
men Flee as Policeman
Appears.
Peace, which has enveloped Harlem's
Utile Italy for a good two months,
was broken last night when members
of two rival gangs met face to face
at the northeast corner of Second ave- '
mie and 111th street. Nothing wan said,
there were no preliminaries, but tha
four men of one gang and the three
men of the other began shooting at
one another while passengers deacendlng
from an elevated train and tha crowd ton Fltlhrer, secretary to Dudley Field
In the avenue and street fled to tho ( Mnlone, Collector of the Port, and Wnl
safety of cellarwaya and balls. . ter Page, Mr. Page's oldest son, who
Oblivious to tha excitement. Mary I went down the boy on the revemin cut
' PAnnntl. , . ...... ..I.I -1 .04 .
..in, ,,,. .i ,.. . .....
'. ' V .1 "- - mr j
wl,;ne',1 ''le firemen of l.nglne i.oiii-
sidewalk. Firemen carried her Inside
and found sh had been shot through
the left leg. She was taken to the
Harlem Hospital.
Tlie gang fight was over within two
minutes Twelve or fifteen tdiots were
llted. Patrolman Cohen was a block
,,wsj.f Hj run at tho first pop' of the
automatics, but the combatants melted
out of sight as he neared Detective
' Irnm t h m 1,1.1 ll-.nll lul nlulit l.".ln.l
1 to hear fioni a hoenllal or nrlvate
i physician that a
wounded man had
' ? -'.",. v u . reported
'the aUIometi. 'Die feud ha a gill at
the back of It, the detective. av, and
they fear last night's encounter Is the
beginning of a scrlex of shnotings
80 MOTORISTS FINED $500.
Lined t'p In Tranrclt Court for
I'.ln Big lleadllahts.
TtiNTi'it. N. J.. Ann. 11 - eighty
uutoinoblllsts, most of them from New
Vork. crowded Hecorder lleorge David -
! son's little courtroom to-night while their
i machine congested the loadway out
11,11 'our rtf0t8 i.We.o m 1
, on the charge of running with b inding
i ben.lllRlitF They were assessed lines
wl'lch aggregated .,oo,
Th" 1otof,,ts "ere arrested Sunday
:l volunteer vlg lance committee
' "T"
r?M Tlie tAmpiURii was un icnaueii,
. v. i .... il,l .IaUm.Ii.iiI
,.,,,, ,,.n,,.n .lrlvers have mil been
TALK OF A BREAD INQUIRY.
Ilnrlr No it In hi en no tinil Will
Itepnrt to Hoard.
Washington, Aug. 11 -Whether there
shall be a Federal Investigation of the
high cost of flour and prospective In
crease In bread prices depends largely
upon the report of Commissi, tier Hurley,
now In Chicago making formal Inquiries
for the Federal Trade Commission.
. Mr. Ililil-y went to Chicago to seek
.b.fitiiii. Information at the lieadouartei s.
i "'e.i
Dr Pease warned Mr Cavanatigli that
smoking In the subwaj I a misde
meanor, whereupon Ihe otliei, Ignorant
of Dr Pease's Identity, ihilviieil a few
lemarlis of his own.
These excited Dr. Pease as much as
Hie lighted cigarette had, lie called a
policeman and C.ivmiaugh was ancsted
Later Dr. Pease look his pilsoiiet to the
night court.
Cavanaugh In court said he did not
know the clgnrcllu was lighted. Mugls
tmte Slmms found him guilty and lined
him $'
Through Mleeplna Car Service New York
nd Ashe lite vl HOCTIIKHN HAILWAV
erreeilve in.ilav. leave New York. I'. It. It. .
I lifts A. M., arrive st Aahevllls rnllonlnic
uon irifr i
oni at
ainrning at nut a. m, wonneciioni at
llendersonvllte for l.vfcs Taxaway
Office, :l fifth Av.Aiv.
nllled artillery began a severe bombard-
arJ&M S
,Me oppu!1inir fronts,
liolrnn, the object of attack, ts forty
ml es northwest or ine nine -""'
Salonlca. It was evacuated by the Allies
when tbev retreated from Serbia last
fall ulong the Vardar Valley. Its cap
ture Is regarded as an entering wedgo
for the redemption of Serbia.
Taken by Assault.
The despatches describing the attack
banian territories against lien. Sal roll's
dOO.000 men. Tho Iiulgarlans have been
estimated at about 300,000
It Is believed that moro than 100,000
Teutonic troops have been withdrawn.
With Oen. Sarrall are lno.OOO Serbs, re-
organlxed, well equipped and eager to
reconquer their country from tho liul-
garlans
AMBASSADOR PAGE
HERE FOR VACATION
Says Fnited States Eclipses
London in Getting Ileal
War News.
Walter lllnes Page, Ambassador to
the Court of St. James's, returning for
a vacation nfter three years servlco In
England, arrived yesterday, with Mrs.
Page, on the American liner Philadel
phia. The Ambassador and Mrs. I'age
wero met at Quarantine by Col. Arnold
Squler, former attache to the American
lSnbBHsy In London; William rhllllps,
Third Asslstnnt Secretary of Stale; Ml
ter.
. . e- ..... ....c.1,.1-. iu
nraw ms opinion on the war situation
"You know moie about the wnr here
here
than wo do
"Jtl "ur"
In Loudon," he said. He
porter what the news was,
urprle,i to learn of the extitolt
of the Deutschlalid.
Tnere Is constant romnient nhrnad um been taken "wt.
about lb.) fulness of the American re. ollt "glitliig" and announces ths with
pons," he ald. "Of course, when I get 1 d,an'"1 f Aiistilnn troops to new post
the news It . old," i ""'" 1,1 'he Stanlslau and Monnsterryska
"Is tlie allied offensive likely to ' ,fKlu "owing to the Hti'Man pressure."
terminate the .ir before this ye'ir K' Despatihes from the Itus.si.m front,
invr'-' the. Ambassador was asked. 1 however, rpen.lt of olutluatn tlifhtlmr nnd
"Yon might lis well ask me when tb
millennium will come," he replied. He
referred other questions to the Statu
Department.
Pabln: j . ,
The
p.iseenger
H0B0KEN BERTH READY.
I' Boat II re me ii Jint r.iieeted,
Thnnch, Say Olllelnls.
Movement of Interned liners and the
general
activity In German slilpni1K
at lloboken ve.terd.iv was m
..ration for the ,ec. iHo. of h
supersubmarlne. Itremen. nc-
to otf.clals eimnei.ted wlrli the
c'reles
ill plep,
second
onllng
, Hnmburw-Amerlca,, ,no ,, . N.ntll
( Herman Lloyd Line.
The nij'slerlous wireless mess.iizes re-
cehed at the Marconi station ai Sea
Gate nml at Government stations early
estetday and the moving of the I'rln
reis Irene, interned almost from the
stir' of the war. fiom the noiih m the
south side of the North German l.l.n.l
pier o 1. i'Ii.iihu a birlli .similar to
that made for Ihe IVutschland at ll.il-
tlmoie, gave i ln o the 'lieory tli.lt the
uniiersca mcrciiaiitniau was expected In
this port
The steamship official yesterday
sain in.ii iney moe the steamers at
intervals and that no special surnlfl-
cince should be attaclo-d to the cluuiKes
mane yesterday The change., thev
stated, were made in order to afford
room for freighter.
That Ihe wireless call sent to
lanuc i ommunlcatlon company at 47
iir-i eueei iv,i. iruiii ine set or , " " ' .iuiiii noi raiiroau to Aunloff,
some amateur operator and not from ' Ir lt.'H offensivo thej euptiiiei an enemy
tlie nibmailne freighter liiemen, was position with tlie bayonet, and then ad
Ihe opinion of officials of the t 'ommu- i vnnced lo the Middle Kojico Ither.
nle.vtlon eompan.i, which operates tho
ToleflinKen sjsiem . Kiielrellnir Vnn llntl,i.r
OYSTER BAY HOME LOOTED.
II.
Tllerlot,
N, V, llruUer, I, uses
In .leiielr).
sill. nun
IM-THt IS V. AUS 11 The summer
11 td c c. Tln init. a .New i.i li
biolii.r. located in llie most f i-hloiiahle
n.tlou of UN 'ter li.iy. was lobbed of be-
I ween til.oim and Jjs.uiui woitli of Jewell y
tome time during Uu week. Tlie ease
wa.. leponeii to tne Nienrr of .Nassau
1 V , Vi . 'ei , i 'lo -
I I. I'll.. I. must Il lNe had an
1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 : 1 1 knowledge of the Theriot house
bold. SI expressed epli. :t faith In the
si rv ants, however
Severn I large estate.. In. hiding that of
Mortimer L. Si hllf
. . .. ....... ,1... IM... ..I...
in- ii.-., i in- i ii i n?i
home, nnd evtra nieeauii.inh have been
liik.ii to safcguaid lliein.
The Thciiots neie in .. Yoik ibujlng
the eaily pan or the wik, nnd upon
Ihelr letuin to neater l.lv dlsi ovet...l
li e r.ibbi. The lorn taken Included
ll . -n .nun sum hiis oi.iuion.
Muds and .1 collection of Jewelled Imlves
belonging t" Mr Tlierlot
POWDER BLOWUP KILLS 20.
1,111 Per. on. Injured Vinr llllehn-
resl, llrspiitrli tni.,
I.ONpoK, Aug. 11. Twenty persons
were killed and 150 Injured by tlie acci
dental explosion of n military powder
magazine at Dudestl, near nucharesi,
says a Ileuter despatch from tho liu-
mnnlan capital,
Tho material damage was small and
work at the powder plant continue,
RUSSIANS TAKE
STAN1SLAU AS
TEUTONS FLEE
Now Driving Austro-Ger-mans
Toward Halicz,
Near Icmborar.
BREAK IX ENEMIES'
LINES BY HOT DRIVE
Notable Successes in the
Sercth Region 5,000
Prisoners Taken.
ATSTRJANS ADMIT
FORCES RETIRING
In Six Dn.vs Czar's Troops
Capture 20H Officers
nnd l.'I.OOO Men.
1'CTHO.iiun, Aug. 11.- Stntilslau was
captured by the Huvlans In the dusk
of Thursday evening nfter hard fight
ing. They aro now pursuing tho Aus-tro-Clcrmans
toward ll.illcr, using
Stnnlslati as a stepping stono toward
I.cmberu.
Tho nusslans also had notnblo nuc-
ceises in hot fighting, much of It cav
alry action, In the Scrcth rrg.on. They
drove German troops from tho town of
Monastcrzyska nnd other strong worka
and took C.00O prisoners.
The caiHuro of .Slaulslnu Is a heavy
blow to the Ttutons, and gives the Hiis
rlans another valuable road to their goal,
I.tmberg, the capital of GV.lcla. It is
eighty-seven miles southeast of l.em
bcrg, and Is an Important railroad centre
rDad.s radiating from It In live directions!
The city Is between two fork of tho
Hystrlt7..i Itlver, ten tulles juuth of the
Dniester.
Break in Teuton I, Ine,
These successes have caused appar
ently a serious break In the Teutonlo
lir.es along the Dniester In tho w.iole,
Stnnlslau region. They hav had to
letreat so far thut Oen. Lechlt:y's army
hao reached u lino south of M.irlarnpol,
wlilch Is but elirlit miles e
I Halicz. llallcz Is onu of tho Htromreat
1 "".uo'i"' of Lombeig.
I . AUMr'an he.ujiiuai ler admits to-night
,l retreat of tho Austrian iu-(ma th
Httriu.i. c.osrly pursued by the Hiis
slant, who pouted a hot rill anil ma-
ciune gun pro into them.
; llt r rAz. 'x; r;
i.ipuiii mat tne AUstnans had t , blow
up xtoir nous,,, in ii,.. r i iho to get
aw.ix Tli AtlMiMiis ictua'.d townrd
llaller. and evaruat-d t! e 1 ft bank of
Iho ilwi Just as the Itu-Matis appeared
upon the right bank.
I'leeliiu, Destroy ll-hlte.
,,," ', " .''",. '" ie ituselana
' 1 ' A";lrlJ1"1 ''. After the
"""'Vl " .' l"VM " n.unte.
Ti vu "' h"M- commanded y
If"1 ' tf",km ,v' T '""'tloned for
On the ilver Sereth, too, the Hiis.-ians
br.uerj. pii-hed nlung ilw- on the heels
nf German regiment. The Lieutenant
and Irs men lepnircd I no brldgn at
Muii.isterzysk.i. destroyed ! tile llclng
i r.emy, and readied tho rear of the Th it
tlirm.m Ite-ene Itigimeut. "Tie la'tii.
still offering rislhtance. wis iitinlllati.il
."111, ma. hlne gun-,' hajs tli
V' "ll-m "Deny.
Near Hi, i loulluence of the vi..t i ...
whl. h tne ltusslans foiikd v. stenlal',
their c.ivalry detachments, 'gjllopieg
closely upon llio heels of the t, treatlirr
lentous, occupied tin. vitiligo of rule,
zelono, nt the Junrtlon with the Dniester
in tne Knorov.inn i, and the vl
Mge of
.iiimiiKorie, inn tii of it
The
Austrlans item fircol in rti
from two Important iird well fortified
works, Giailli.i anl Vuiobb vslt in n...
Seretll llliblln'. ll..rl.1..u ....
I. .... v .uniiiK .iionas
terz.vslca Itself, the l;uss"at,s t(.,.l; the of.
, fenslve north of the town, llrst gaining
I tensive norm or the town, llrst gaining
I Tlie rapture of Stnnlslnu nnd Gen
1 Leihltslty's nppronc!i tliui to Hallch h
I..,....,,, luiiipioiuitf me encircling move.
ment, of Gfii. von Ilothmcr'a iinny that
1,0 has l"M'n mifoldliu; for Ihn last ten
ui.'n m- oi.oe. l,-n. von llOlllmp lu .....
illlecllv under tlie einmn.i .. ...,".;
Marshal von Illr.denbure. who was hur'
i led to the enst to savo Lembere and rll
back the ltiss!:ins. '
Ths Germans appear to consider Ihe
:l,t f tin. Austrian 11..,. from i.-.....i ...
Lemheig ns mora linportant thun llui
, Koiunern npproacu to Lembcrg, which
tlie liusslans urn now sweeping alone
Hence Von HlndeiUmrir, though Jm has
Mued for a time nt least the Hussion
advance to tho north), between Knvel and
I.einberg, may have to withdraw hlsllne.s
' . . ..
. liarnit..! or MiiM-inn r if.(.i.",n ,.,
of the lino lot does nut control,
Delated reports recee,i m-lav show
)m, tlurcene.s of the tiglnti.g In tln
Sereth region nnd the latgo number of
, prisoners taken, ll'-tvve. n Augiivt 4 and
lc a total of 2CS olllcers and n.oon men
i !,.. been l"l lit llle.l T in tinnil.., I...
eluded two stuff olllceis and 4 72 men
taken on August 10 alone All theso
prisoners were imwounded! n thousand
wounded Tcutoui wero eaptuied also,
lint Co va I rv riiiirges,
Cavalry uttacks by Cossacks wsre)
daslilnglv carried out tu tli te. 'on of
Lii7aruvka, whera an ilienhur reg..
ment took over 200 .rl nu '.h n .1 i i-.
ture.l threo ma tune gu. t av i'rj'
charged German Inf n 'r u nr Ti i
neoneogrovce, a v llage on Hie t. t
bank of tho Sereth. FliM 'In iva mr it
thundered down ulon the lnf.n f r m
In front, but a iMiikms niiudrou haj
