BRING IN YOUR WANT
AD COPY BEFORE 6 P. M.
Early Delivery of Sunday Want Ads In
sures Correct Classification
fUcljmoiti) STimcs ?
ALL SORTS OF ADS FOR
ALL SORTS OF PEOPLE
See Times-Dispatch Want Pages for a
Service of Unequalled Value
66th YEAR
VOLUME ?l?l
.NL'MHKH 224
RICHMOND, VA., SATURDAY, AUGUST 12, 1916.?EIGHT PAGES.
rME"sR ? FAIR
TRICE, TWO CENTS.
IFIREBUG BLAZES
WAY THROUGH CITY
(Keeps Department on Jump With
Calls From Livery and
Feed Stores.
SEVERAL FIREMEN OVERCOME
Series of Alarms Follows in
Quick Succession?Consider
able Damage Done.
Biasing a trail from Second and Mar
shall. through Broad Strec* and the
Second Market district to Nineteenth
and Franklin Streets, an incendiary yes
terday afternoon applied the torch to
tlx buildings and railed out seventeen
engine companies and trucks before the
J last of the sparks he struck were ex
tinguished
In one of the most serious fires of
the series?Thomas S. Winn & Co., hay
and feed dealers. :.05 Fast Marshall
| Street-?several ftretnen were overcome
by the heat and smoke. They are:
Lieutenant Smith, of No 1 Truck. Lieu
tenant Parker, of the same company,
|and Fireman fjeorge M Andrews. ?>!
Fngine Com pan'. No. 7. 'loot-go \\
Robertson, of Kt lm:'" Covipa iiv N ? 1''.
was slight ly Injured by l.rr.kB:i glass,
'bat was able to continue service Lieu
tenant Parker and Fi-eman Andrews
were tak^n to Yircinia Hospital fo
treatment. Lieutenant Smith wa
tteated In the Hroad Street Fncln*
House and returned to work. 1!" re
entered the burning building av.d was
ordered out by Chief .1 o y n < -
A1.AIOIS A HI-: HI \?. IN
it tiMi) sr? ? i-:sski\
The fir es came in rapid su -cession,
the first alarm coming it* at 1 IT
o'cloi k. From that time Jhey continued
until 5 o'clock, when No 1 r> box. at
Nineteenth and Franklin Street*, was
turned In t'hU-f Joynes was kept
running from pillar to post and back
again, so that at times lie didn't know
where the latest lire was. When he
finally turned In at headquarters he
was wet fr??in head to foot, but decided
to i'main on duty wit;. ? > 11 ? hanging
ills clothes, for fear that the maniacal
?ncendiarv might not satisfied with
the work he had already accomplished
The first tiv- was that in Winn's
feel store, on Marshall Street, which
was bio-ked by countr-- ??arts come t<>
bring their produce for the marketers
Policeman Stockmar called out the ap
paratus. No sooner had the engines
arrived and the firemen begun their
work than a negro ran up excitedly '<
say that the feed stable of W .' To
42<S North Sixth Street, was afire. II:
ar.i alfalfa were found to ? e all
but the flames were extinguished ? ????
fore damage was inflicted Then in
rapid succession came other reports.
Fire was found in the basement of
Robins*? drill* *t-:e. .-? on.! and Mar
shall Streets, and in the basement ?
? Jtffrles's drug store. ::i F.ust Hroad
Street, in the rear rf Fifth and Hioad
Streets, where the torch had beer, ap
plied to a pile of trash 'died paper
was found, it was stated, near the fire
lr. Robins's drug store. In Jeffries's
drug store the tire was found in a pile
of excelsior and packing straw These
minor fires were extinguished by peo
ple on the premises.
LIVERY AMI KEEII VIA 1U.ES
a hi: t hii:f si k fishers
While numerous pie<-<.^ of apparatus
were scattered In every direi-tu
the Second Market to cover that dis
trict, there came an alarm from Box
213, South Tenth Street, where lif
and feed had been set afire in Crull's
livery stable, 1 '> Sou t !i Tenth Street.
Apparatus was sent to this fire, an
'arriving i.n time, it had little difficult
in uenchlng the flames.
Before the fire in Winn's feed store
had been conquered, an alarm was
sounded from Box IS. Nineteenth and
Franklin Streets. Firemen found the
Franklin feed stable ablaze, and in
vestigation showed that the incendiary
had broken through a window in the
rear. This fire whs reached before it
could assume serious proportions.
The blaze in the Winn sti>r>- was not
completely extinguished until nearly 6
O'clock. The dry hay blazed furiously,
casting dense clouds of smoke through
the market, and giving the appearance
of a fire of tremendous proportions.
? Marketing was stopped. People from
every quarter rushed to the scone.
Country marketers saw with dismay
their fresh vegetables drifting in the
swift streams running from the burn
ing building. Housewives clung to
empty baskets, for there was no mov
ing among the throngs of people am
the lines of country carls backed In
every conceivable manner against the
curb. Horses and mules were taken
front the shafts and moved to places
of safety, liver and anon as the fire
men. half-overcome by smoke, heat of
the fire and heat of the day. worked,
the firebell tolled dismally. The bell
hangs above the Grays' Armory, and
the heavy hammer could be seen clang- J
ing away against the brass.
iikeme.v iiavi-: maw
X AH HOW 15SCAPE8 i
At one time in the Winn store Chief
joynes found himself and his men
caught on a stairway, which acted as
a flue for llame and smoke. He had !
to back his men out before they were !
overcome. They continued pouring
water from the outside. 10 von when
the blaze was apparently extinguished,
the men remained to examine the bales
0f hay for further vestige of spnrk, and
1then came the arduou duty of clean
up up. Damage to the building was
Stlmated by Chief Joynes at between
1,600 and $1,800. Most of the hay was
a'maged, but much of-it may be pre
orved for use.
In the Hygeif stables. 410 North
J'lfth Street, fifty vehicles, a carload
f hay and a quantity of oats were de
stroyed. Some of the vehicles belonged
to people who boarded their horses
"there. Tho damage to feed and
vehicles is estimated by Charles B.
(Continued on Second Page.)
Vote on West Indiesv
May Come Up To-Day
? AukuM It Ivtn
I<<1M<I011).?Tin- Fojkctliiiig to.ilav
continued tin* ilrliiilr on t)??? *iib- of
The Diinish \\ cm! IikMiiii NlandN to
? I"' I nlfed Stiiles. The opposition
npenkcrN xrvcrclj critlriffcil Ihr uov
eriuiiciit*n fiction in repented
dcninlx (lint ncKol In l ion* lor the
Mile of flic islmitlM ?rrc in progriHs.
Tliey 111 no rcpcii I edly Muuui-stfi] t tin t
the popnlntlon of tin* lolnmls should
be allotted it referendum on the pro
poned sale. The Foreign- Minister
Mnlil lluit lie lind linked the Ainerl
i'?tt Kovirnnient nhetlirr It uim fn
vnrnhle to mucIi n referendum, nnd
(hut the Ainerlciiii government re
fused to Klinction It. He milled, how
ever, tlint he wum tv 111111K |,r|n>.
the matter iiunin to the intention or
the I'111 ted States.
The delinte trill continue to-n.or.
rotv. ni.il it In po*i.ihle tlint n tote
??'ii>" '?<* reached In the rtciiini;.
T
k.'umii uniiui
I'niqup f'ivlr Event in Oprn Stroot
Is Feat it if of Hettor At quaint
anre Week.
OTHER I!AI,f,S AHE TO FOLLOW
rromofnrs of Trade Week Express
Their Tltanks to C ity Authorities.
.More Merrfuinls Register Than in
Former Yenr*.
X'.f for mnny days liavf Hieljtnnnd
|" of ;t 1 ! 'iL't-y n III] fj-j _
in such numbers as turno'l <>ut 011
Tenth Street l,o|wfrn Broad r.rd M;,r
;diall last niirhf to the open-air de.n<e
i:i\en |?v th" Administrative Hoard In
h"n<-?r <'f the vlsiring merchants and
|b? " families r.f Better Ai'f|iiaintnnc<1
W.-ek Th-ree: and sidewalks were
' "t Matu ly j. |, ke<l. and people f ame
and ivent throughout the evening.
I h*?usand:? attended, hut to estimate the
exact number i.? lit 12?? U s., difficult than
to count the flak's <?{ meal with which
the street was slicked r; Jeter Joesn,
w.t.s master of ceremonies
I-ove of novelty prolni bly mused as
many t<. come as did the pleasure n?
ticipated fi.?m >|;inclnc Many danced,
and a great many more watched them
datice For the first time ;n the his
tory of Richmond, a public thorough
fare of the city was the scene of a
party, and the pilosis of honor were the
Better Acquaintance Week visitors
The success of the affair was so great
that members of the Administrative
Board are already talking of other
-imilar municipal halls
A Ion(.? both sides of Tenth Street
were stretched strings of electric
.Ithts Bed. green. y.ll.w. purple and
i white lights beamed 01. the people anil
j made the street as bright as day
Hopes* in? losed a great smooth asphalt
dancing floor in th.- cent, r of the street
j On one side was the stand, in which
Kessnich s .Municipal Hand played its
liveliest airs
.MAMMOTH CHOW H
i:\.IOVS TII1C i)A.\('l.\G
Inclosing all features of the street,
j and filling the approaches was the
1 mammoth crowd In vain did the police
attempt to clear the roped-in dancing
! floor. Wending in and out among other
, couples and frequently bumping
| against the spectators swayed the dane
?*cs. Although the heat was oppressive
anywhere last night, and especially so
1 :n tlie multitude, no one hesitated ,on
jthat account from plunging into the
midst. Although there was a record
crowd, there was practically no dis
order or ill temper.
Alter almost two hours of music, i
dancing and good spirits, the crowd
was dispersed by a light shower of
! rain. As It was within a short time
of the hour set for the close of the I
party, no particular harm was done. |
In leaving the scf-no, however, the peo-!
pie filled all streets and afforded ad
ditional evidence of the numbers who
! had attended.
Chairman Hirschberg and Graham
P>. llobson. of the Administrative
Board, are reported to be so pleased
with the success of the affair last
night that they promise other munici
pal balls for the future. And they say
that, profiting by experience, next time
they will have the dancing rioor in
clude several squares of the cltv
streets instead of one, and will have
four or five bands to furnish the
m usic.
AI'I'HECI ATE < "0-OI*EH ATIO.V
OF ,\ I)M I.MSTH ATI VIC HOAItl) !
Members of the trade extension bu
reau of the Richmond Chamber of
Commerce last night expressed their
appreciation of Die co-operation of the)
Administrative Board in entertaining!
visitors during Better Acquaintance!
Week. "Say a good word for the
board," said one member of the enter-1
tainment committee. "Tho board de- i
serves full credit for the ball to-night.
It's their affair."
The dance last night closed the for
mal program of the biggest and most
successful Better Acquaintance Week
in all the four years' history of the
occasion. More merchants and more i
of their wives have registered than
ever before. It is stated also that the
program has been carried out with less
friction, and that the visitors hnve had
a better lime than at past festivals
"I have never heard more gracious
words of appreciation than guests have I
spoken this week," declared Business j
Manager Dabncy, of the Chamber of
Commerce.
To-day will bring the occasion to a |
close. Most of the visitors will have i
left the city by this evening. Tickets!
have been issued by the trade exten
sion bureau which admit to moving
picture shows or baseball games to
day. Individual firms will also give
entertainments to their customers.
$14 Lake .lunaltiftkit, X. C., nnd Return.
Augunt II to 15 inclusive. Return limit
September 1st. Account Triennial Confer
ence of Southern Methodist Layinon
SOUTHERN RAILWAY.
Their Efforts to Avert Railway
Strike Virtually at
Halt.
NEITHER SIDE WILL YIELD
Unless Turn Comes Soon, Ap
peal Will Be Made to
President.
NEW YORK. August 11.?Whether j
th* Icari'-rf f { t Of'.f'fui cmplny*(j of '.ho
railroads of the ? ,! try will make stood
their threat of a y-v.f-ral sirllc unl^s
, their demands fot a n oii:ht-hour 'lav
am! time a lialf for overtime arc grant
ed by the managers of railroad fvs- j
tems. prob.ibp will he known to-mor
row. it w;i t 1 ? r r ?'! here to-night front
an authoritative smiw Tin* only lit.-;>>
for a pe-u*. fil ' t '-nu-'it a ;->pa r'-ntiv
rested to-i ? upon the possibility
that the me:: ?? ?? 1 t he induced to ac
cept a new foil: of arbitration, al
though thus far the\ steadfastly have;
re f <i sed, all r- > i <? i ? ptopot-i's Their
: chief obiertirn to arbitration has been
lack of r'*pr<"-:-< r ??'<'n upon any of the
boards provided ur.?<-r existing statute.".
HOI'EFt'l. ItS \T
m \ i :u; em. \ iu.kij
The members of the K"d*ral Roard
of M'-ili.-'t tt ;tnd ? "-utolliation, while
I? n!tijr to < ? j-c th'- situation, are
said to be hopeful thit an expansion
{ of the boat j?rr? led fo.? under th*
I New'a rd.- ' -v, ,v ? - et tni- object o;i
' Effort to ? d? tain from Washington ap
proval of th ; II wa.< reporter! t.>
ha\ been respr r sible fr.r an apparent
suspension '<{ ti? mediators' activi
ties to-fljty.
If tills .'uscni -!i is not accepted,
it was said to-niuht. tiie mediation
board will have faded in its . fforts.
j and the only rerout.-o will i?e ,m ap
peal to l':>:ddent Wilson to u.-e bis
' influence to avert a strike jt was
pointed fun however, that the presi
dent's powers will I if- limited to sug
gestion and recommendation.
'I he three mediators?Chairman Mar
tin A Knapp, William A. '"hambers and
W W Hanger?were to meet with
the brotherhood men early to-day. but
r?(|ue- ? <-rl a u adjpuimmnt until to-^
morrow The mediators also fit tic-.! to
meet the railroad managers.
WII.I, ,\(IT A It IIITK ATK
1 MH'.lt XhWLAMJS At T
Leaders of the brotherhoods have de
j clarc-d that they would not consider
\ arbitration under the New lands act. as
I it ,?o\* stands. The railroads have re
j jeoted the men's demands and have
j stood firmly for arbitration. The men
1 have served notice that rather than
i arbitrate they will st.\ke. With both
sitakinc such an unbending atti
tude theie is no solution to the prob
lem except the new arbitration plan,
ac. ording to a r.spoils l l- authority.
The principal feature of the new plan
| Is said to b?- tIt- formation of a hoard
of arbitration that will _ive each of
the four brotherhoods a represent:-1 i v e
on the board while the arbitrator.! ol
the railroads will be increased to an
equal number, with four neutral arbi
trators. making a total membership of
twelve.
CAI.I.N TO SKI-: PRESIDENT
l\ I'.I'TOItT TO STOP STRIKE
WASHINGTON. August 11.?R. T.
Frazicr, of Nashville, Tenn., represent
ing railroad employees in five States in
the South., who have signed a petition
asking congressional action to prevent
a nation-wide strike, called at the
1 White House to-day to make an en
. gagemer.t t ? lay the position of the non
[ brotherhood employees before the Pres
ident. J
No engagement was made, however,
as the President is having the entire
I matter In the hands of the Federal j
I conciliators at this stage.
Frazier. an employee of the Nash- |
ville, Chattanooga and St. Louis, rep- !
rese itcd nonbrotherhood men of that !
road, who oppose a strike on the ground '
that the brotherhoods represent only'
-" per cent of all railroad employees.
President Wilson decided to-night to
gi\e ip a weekend cruise he had
planned to take on the Mr..vPo?ver lie-;
cause, White House officials said, ne was
anviofs to keep in close touch with
the negotiations in New York for avert
ing a genera! railroad strike. v
TURKEY REFUSES
Will Not (iriuit Iti-uuest of 1 ultcd
States for Itcllef Work
in Syria.
WASHINGTON. August 11 ?Turkey
has refused to grant the request of the I
I nited States that a neutral committee
he permitted to undertake relief work ,
in Syria, where thousands of native
Christians are reported to be starving.
Charles Miller, at Constantinople, in n
cablegram, received at the State .De
partment to-day, said the Turkish gov
ernment had informed him relief opera
tions in Syria were considered unneces
sary because crops there were better
than anywhere else in the empire. He j
added that although he was told the de- 1
< ision was final, lie had not dropped the
subject, but would continue to press
for favorable action.
CORRESPONDENTS PROTEST
They Object to Tlielr Dixpatclics From
(Germany Ilclng Cctixorcd iiy
Itrl ti.sli (I lib*in)m.
LONDON, August 11.?The protest of
American newspaper correspondents In
Germany against censorship of their
dispatches by British officials, for
warded from Washington-by the State
Department, r/as presented to the For
eign Office to-day by the American cm
>?.ssy. Discussing the question. Lore'
"Johert Cecil, War Trade Minister, said
.hat no decision had been reached,
.lowever, he expressed the opinion that
such censorship of messagos in transit
was moro necessary than tho local cen
sorship.
-:v
Renowned Surgeon
Dies Suddenly
Dr. John B. Murphy Was
Known Throughout World
Had Been Knighted bi/ Pope.
.MACKINAC ISLAND. MICH.. August
11.? Dr. John H Murph., of Chicago,
ohP of tiih world's nt"st renowned sur
k'P"ns. died to-day suddenly at a hotel
here while on a fiintinor outing. Dr.
Murphy had been in poor health for
several month?, and snnif had ascribed
his condition to the poisoned soup par
taken of at the banquet given to Arch
bishop Mundeleln, in <"hioago.
The surgeon. who recently was
knighted hv J'opc lienrdict for his re
searches in surgery, was only fifty
eight years old. Hi;, pioneer surgery
in cases of appendicitis, later in the
treatment of other intestinal disor
ders. and mor?* ter.-p11 v in the serum
neutralization of rheumatic .'<nd other
joint troubles, had made him known
all over the wotld.
President of the American Medical
! Association in 1113. elected the same
year to be president of the clinical
| rorii;ress of Surgeons of America. I?r
Murphy had received th? most dis
1 tinruished honors that could be ac
corded a surgeon in this country. His
operating clinic at the Mercy Hospital
t in Chicago was a Mecca for surceons
all over the world
Dr. Murphy rea<~he'l pre-eminence in
every branch of surgery, t? -it he may
be called the founder of the prevent
system of intestinal surgery. It was
the "Murphy button"- a met:>l capsule
f<>r unitincr severed int*.-t:n's -that in
th" early nineties brought inventor
into prominence.
FORTY KILLEbTMANY INJURED
?"Jreek S'P.imfr, With < nrsn of Oil
nnd I .-lift I'aBKciiKPr*
Iliirnn nt Sea.
ATHENS, August 11 (via Taris).? i
' Tl'.e fjreek steamer Eletheria. bound j
from Snloniki t? Volo. w ? h a < irgo of
I oil owned by an American company, j
and 1.200 passengers, principally dis- I
banded troops, caucht hr* to-day off \
the Island of Sklatho. Forty persons j
were killed and many were injured. '
The captain of the Eletheri.i succeeded]
! finally in beaching his vessel
Sunk liy Infernal Mtirlilnr.
KH1ST1ANSAND. NORWAY. August j
11 ivia Loudon).?The Norwegian I
steamship Rngnarok. 22 S feet long,
from Gothenburg for Rouen, has been
sunk in the North Sea as the result of
an explosion. Her crew was saved.
The captain expressed the belief his
ship had been destroyed by an infernal
machine which had been placed in the ,
hold
Destroyed liy I'lames.
M A K S i: 1 L L i: S. August 11?The
French steamer Tibor. of 2,717 tons,
with a 1'irgo of inflammables. caught
fire on August 5 and sank. The Tibor i
left New York >n July 2 f--r Marseilles. 1
and was last reported as pasting
Gibraltar on July i>".
French \ pnncIs Mink.
LONDON. Aug. 11. ? Lloyd's shipping j
agency announces that the French sail- j
:ng vessel Annette Marie. 117 tons, and I
the French steamer Henri Elisa, S22 |
tons, have been sunk i
WILSON MAY TAKE STUMP
President. I? In Suld, In Considering
.linking TrnuNt-oiit inen tnl t jun
pnlgn Trip.
WASHINGTON, August 11.?Presi-j
dent Wilson is considering a trans
continental campaign trip. Congres
sional callers at the White Hiuse to
day gained the impression that he vir
tually had decided on such a step, but
officials said later that his plans for;
the campaign still were uncertain, and j
depended largely upon Congress.
Invitations for the President to
speak in all parts of the country are
being placed on file in case Mr. Wilson
decidcs to make one or more long cam
paign trips. Some of his advisers are
urging him strongly to cross the conti
nent. but others believe he should ,
spend most of the time during the ram- '
paign at his summer home at Shadow!
Law'n, N J.. receiving delegations, and j
at the same time keeping in close i
touch with the government depart- j
ments in Washington
Democratic leaders insisted to-day ?
that Mr. Wilson would make no ex- j
tended trips from Washington until
aft? r Congress adjourned.
The President to-day completed his
speech accepting the Democratic nomi
nation It will be shorter than that
delivered by Mr. Hughes, and. in addi
tion to replying to the criticisms of
the Republican nominee, will review in
detail the legislative achievements of)
the administration.
M0;f DATA FOR AUST RIA |
Washington In Preparing to I'or^vnrU
New Chapter In l'etro
llte Cane.
WASHINGTON. I). C. August 11.?
The State Department has assembled
for transmission to the Austrian For
eign Office additional data regarding
the Austrian submarine attack on the
American tanker Petrolite. supporting
the charge of the Petrollte's captain
that the attack was made in violation
of International law. The United
States already has demanded an
apology, punishment of the submarine
commander nnd reparation.
The new representations are ex
pected to go for>vard next week.
POWDER MAGAZINE LETS GO
T>venty Person*! Are Killed nnd 150
Injured In Itouiiuinlan
r- Plnnt.
LONDON, August 11.?Twenty per
sons were killed and 150 injured by the
accidental explosion of a military
powder magaztno at Dudesti, near
Bukharest, says a Router dispatch
from the Roumanian capital. The ma
terial damage was small, and work at
the powder plant continues.
BRYAN STRIKES
BACK AT HUGHES
Tells How Republican Candidate
Has Paid His Politi
cal Debts.
STILL HE'S NOT ASHAMED
Now He Is in League With Rail
roads and Country's Trust
Magnates.
KANSAS f'lTV. All trust 11 ?W ilium J.
Pryan replied here to-lav to criticism j
of hi? attitude townrrt civil service,
ma<l? 1>\ I'liiirl'-s E. 1 lurches, thf* R<pub
limit president la 1 nominee. In a state
ment in whirh he said he had "en
forced llie civil service law to the let
ter." Mr Bryan challenged the Re
publican nominee to state whether he
had given appointments to "deserv
ing Republicans" while Governor of
New York
The statement was m.ude in answer
to recent speeches of Mr Hughes which
quoted a letter Mr Pryan ha'l written
to Receiver of Customs Vick at Santo
Dominco. inquirinc as to what posi
tions could be obtained to "reward de
serving 1 democrats." Mr Bryan ad
' mitte'l the letter as it hart been quoted.
"I am not nshamed of it." the state
I m*nt reiri "The lett<- was written to
an aptiointjve officer whose office was
not under th" civil service, and the in
quiry vis made in re; rd to offices
; wlifh vrre not under the civil service."
T^ICNK TIIIMiS NOT
SIIAMKFl'I. TO lll'fJIIEH
"When he was a candidate for Gov
ernor Mr Hushes received the support
of the railroads of New York, and
lie generously repaid the debt by veto
[ ine the 2-cent passenger rate bill He
j did not describe that as shameful
! When a candidate for Governor, he re
ceived the support of the New York
tox dopers. the owners of "swollen for
tunes.- and he paid his debt, bv send
| ing a message to the Legislature pro
testing against the income tax nmend
nient to the Federal Constitution. He
does not describe that as shameful.
"(|e is now being supported by the
railroads of the I'nited States, and he
expects to pay them back by aiding
them to escape State legislation and i
find a haven of security in "exclusive j
Federal control over the railroads; he!
is being supported by the shipping ]
trust, and expects to pay them back j
by helping them to prevent government ?
competition. He is supported by the j
trust magnates, and expects to pay
them hack by shielding them from pun
ishment for the extortion which they j
desire to practice; he is supported by
Wall Street, and expects to pay them
hack by sheddinsr American blood and
squandering money raised by taxpayers
in ortler to guarantee profits on specu
lative investments."
HI (.11KS ADOPTS Sl.OOAN
or (MT1I.KSS f'l IIMCITY
B1LMNGS, MONT.. August 11 ?
? 'harles K Huglies. addressing a
Chautauqua audienee in a b.g tent on
the village square here to-nigitt. pre-(
faced his i>dvocacy of a protective I
tariff with tiie declaration that if he!
should be elected President, nothing j
would be "pulled off" for private bene-J
tit at the public expense if he could j
prevent it. Mr. Hughes adopted a ,
Democratic slogan, also of the 1012'.
campaign, "l'itiless Publicity."
"I desire in all that we do in this]
campaign." Mr. Hughes said. "to have
what was called four years ago "piti
less publicity." 1 want pitiless pub
licity with respect to the 'pork barrel'
and with respect to the sectionalism
and extravagance and wastefulness of
this administration.
"1 want pitiless publicity with re
spect to the incompetence of appointees
of this administration. I-et us see that
we have America rirst in the hearts
of every American of whatever race
or creed, and also America equal to
her tasks?America efficient."
Mr. Hughes also assailed the admin
istration for having changed its tariff
views since 1012. and repeated his
declaration in favor of a protective
tariff whose enactment and enforce
ment should be left to the Republican
party.
The nominee spent the entire day
en route to Hillings from Fargo, N. D.
Ten-minute stops and brief addresses
were made at several towns on the
way, and at Miles City, Mont , where
there was a forty-minute stop. Mr. !
lliiKhes left the train and delivered i
an address in the public square. A !
squad of cow-punchers and cowgirls
escorted him from the station to the ?
square.
Mr. Hughes left* here late to-night:
for Helena, where he will deliver an
address to-morrow at noon.
EYE ON FLOUR SITUATION
There May He Federal InveslIkuIinu of
Proponed Increase In
Price.
WASHINGTON. August 11?Whether
there shall be a Federal investigation !
of the high cost of flour and prospec- |
tivc increases in bread prices depends
largely upon the report of Commis
sioner Hurley, now in Chicago making i
informal inquiries for the Federal j
Trade Commission.
Mr. Hurley went to Chicago particu- j
uarly to seek definite information at
the headquarters of the National
Bakers' Association concerning state- !
mcnts during the association's conven
tion at Salt Lake City that the price
of bread soon would be increased. Of- j
flcinls of the commission said to-day.
however, that ho would look into the
general question of Hour and bread j
prices.
Copies of a resolution passed by the j
master bakers at Salt Lake City, call- j
ing on Congress to place ntf embargo
on flour exports, were received by mail
to-day by Vice-President Marshall Void j
Speaker Clark. They will bo presented
to both houses later, but there is no
prospect of action on thorn. The con
stitutionality of export embargoes long
has bocn a mooted question.
German Casualties
Now Total 3,135,177
I.O.VDO.V AuruhI 11.?Orninn
en ?ti (title* during 'IrIt. nrrnriMiis to
n tnldr compiled 11 r r t- fntm (?rrmnn
I'DMialty ll.sfK, minted IZl'.MO, bring
ing Hie era ml total Miner Ihr com -
of lite nnr, tnkon from
tin* Mime nmroi', to :?.i:r,,irT.
Men Killed ??r v? ho died of wound*
?Iiirtni: lult numbered 21,190; tlio*e
wlio ilietl of Nlcktit'NN, 1MMI2; mlnnlnc,
I: severely wounded, IT.SllTj
wounded. I! oIIkIhIj wounded,
SIM 57.
.Aicorillnc to tlie?e Hit*. ulnce the
commencement of I lie n nr the men
klllid or ulio have died of their
wound* fof:iI T:I5,S??j illeil of sick
lies,. Is,r,;n; prisoner*. ir?7.n7."j ml?*
Inu, 1 ; hcvert lj woundril, 425,
17.",; mninilpil, d.'iv.ov.-,. Kltghtlv
wounded. I.1.V.M5S: wounded re- j
innlning with their units. SI47.742.
The Itgurex do not Include na^al
entunllie*. or !o**?-s to tlip cnlnt.lnl
fori i-s.
ippboib wrfist
snaiflx on big iicoibes
Democratic Senate Caucus Favors
Increase From 10 to 13
Per Cent.
MAW URGE HIGHER RATE
Finance Committee Adopts Amend
ment Advancing Salaries of Mem
bers of Proposed Tariff Board
"From $5.noo to 810.000 Annually.
WAPHINOT" ?N. Au en Ft 11.?The
Democratic Senate caucu.* to-night ap
proved a committee amendment to the
revenue bill, which would Increase the
surtax on incomes in excess of $2,000,
000 from 10 per rent to 13 per cent.
Withdrawal by tlie committee of an
amendment to reduce the Income ex
emptions to $3,000 and ?2.onn. respec
tively, for married and sin;*|p persons,
prevented a threatened caucus revolt
on that issue, hut there was a persist
ent fight by several Senators to in
crease surtaxes on largf incomes.
Amendments to run the rurtax as
hich at |.",. 20. and e\en 2.*?. per cent on
incomes in excess of $2.0nn.ono were ad
vocated in place of the 13 per cent rate
proposal. which finally prevailed.
Among Senators who urged the hlgner
taxes were Heed, of Missouri; Myers, of
Montana, and Plttman. of Nevada.
The caucus approved the provision
inaicinar the norn.nl income tax 2 pei
cent instead of the present ! per cer.t
and adopted an amendment providing
that no income assessment should ap
nlv to dividends accruing before March
1. 1011. the date the income tr.x consti
tutional amendment became effective.
IMMJHITAXCU TAX
I XI It KA sUS XI?T TAKKX t'P
The caucus did not reach to-night the
inheritance tax increases, or the anmnd
?lunt substituted: net profit taxes t?n
manufacturers of munitions. It will
meet again to-morrow afternoon.
The Senate 1*1 nance Committee late
to-day agreed upon a proposal strik
ing out the. specific excise taxes on
munition manufactures, and substitut
ing a 10 per cent net profit tax on the
profits of all manufacturers of muni
tions and wares that enter into muni
tions.
The bill provides that:
"This section shall cense to be of
effect at the end of one year after the
termination of the present European
war, which shall he evidenced by the
proclamation of the President of the
1 nited States declaring said war to
have ended '*
The committee also adopted to-day
an amendment increasing the salaries
of members of the proposed tariff board
from $5,000 to $10,000 each As revised,
the bill would yield an estimated an
nnal revenue of $ 198.Oon.000. as against
?210,00ii.000 as it passed the House.
The net decrease is due to the change
in the munitions tax. the House method
providing lor $72,000,000 and the Senate
plan $ 15,000,000.
LIST IS IMPOSING
< hnlrmim CiimiiiliigM Announce* Speak
ers for Democratic Campnl^ji
In Mil Inc. *
rsnccinl to The Times-Dlspatch 1
NEW YORK. August 11.?Chairman
Homer S Cummings. of the speakers'
bureau of the National Democratic
Committee, to-day made public the list
of speakers who will participate in the
Maine campaign. It includes: Speaker
fhamp Clark. Secretary of War Baker.
Secretary of Commerce Redileld. At
torney-Ceneral Gregory, Secretary of
the Navy Daniels, Secretary of Labor
Wilson. Assistant Secretary of the Navy
Roosevelt. Senators James, Owens,
Lewis, Mollis and Hitchcock, and Rep
resentatives O'Shaughnessy, of Rhode
Island: Cullop, of Indiana: Casey, of
Pennsylvania; Candy, of South Dakota;
Barkley, of Kentucky; HeflinC of Ala
bama; Brumbaugh, of Ohio; Gallivan,
of Massachusetts, and Keating, of
Colorado.
WORK OF INCENDIARIES
Illnck Tom Explosion, nnil Fire In
I'lnreuiont Yurils, Xot Itenult
of A cclileii ts.
JERSEY CITY. N. J.. August 11.?
Testimony that both the Kieat Black
Tom explosion and lire on .lulv 30 and
the fire in the Claremont freight yards
a week afterward were incendi.tr;. was
said to-night to have been obtained
from many sources by government
agents and Robert S. Hudspeth, prove*
cut or of Hudson County.
The prosecutor's men have learned,
it wn? said, that the tremendous ex
plosion. in which several lives and
millions of dollars in property were
lost, resulted from a fire which started
In the Lehigh- Valley Railroad yards,
and not on barges, as ftvas first re
ported.
STANISLAU, GATE >1
TO LEMBERG, FALLS
BEFORE RUSSIANS
Austro-Gcrman Armies Quit
Important Railroad Cen
ter Without Fight.
LOSE 5,000 PRISONERS
AND REST ARE IN FLIGHT
j Defeated Teutons Are Being Pur
sued in Direction of
Halicz.
AIjIjTKS WIN on ALIi FRONTS
Offensive Opened at Saloniki and
Positions Taken From
Bulgarians.
LONDON. Aueiim 11 ?Russian, Ital
ian French armies continue suc
cessfully their respective offensivea,
and. according to the latent official com
' munication, have taken more territory
j frnni the force? of the central powers
! in France. Galicla atifl Austria.
Stanislau. eighty-seven miles south
| east of Lemherg. the capital of Galicla,
1 an'l an important railway junction, has
j been occupied by Kiiisiai1 troops. In
! iddltion the Russians have progressed
i on the line of the Sereth Kiver, as well
1 as alone the 7.1ota l.ipa. taking importr
ant positions south of Brody and cap
turing the railway town of Monaster
zyska and several villasres.
The taking of Stnnislau, which
Vienna says was evacuated without
flghtine, opens another gateway
through which the Russians may ad
vance toward Lemberg. Already. Pe
trograd says, the Austro-t^errr.an forces
are being pursued toward Halicz. a
railway Junction north or' Stanislau, on
the Dniester River. Petrograd reports
the cFpture of 5.too more Austro-Ger
>nan soldiers.
I ntu t: of aost.vs aioiv
FOI.I.OWS 1 P VICTORY
The Italian army under the Duke of
Aosta which took Gorizia. is losing no
time In its advance as a result of the
?rapture of the gateway to Trieste.
South of Gorizla along the lower
Isonzo the Italians have occupied the
whole of the Dob??rdo plateau, the
scene of much desperate fighting. In ad
dition to driving the Austrlans east of
the Vallone line and capturing several
towns in the direction of Trieste.
While the British forces have been
comparatively Inactive north of the
Somme, in Northern France, the French
have followed up their bombardment
! of the Ccrmnn lines with the capture
j of additional German trenches near
j .Maurepas and a fortified quarry north
i of the Ham wood. The French also
? have established a new line on the
ridge south of Maurepas. and have
taken two small woods of the Ham
wood.
On the Balkan front the Anglo
French forces have attacked the Bul
garians and occupied the Doiran rail
ways notthwest of Saloniki, according
to unofficial advices.
Petrogra-l admits the evacuation of
Hamad.in. Persia, under pressure of
j Turkish attacks.
sriti>iiisi.\<; m cckssics are
WON IIV SAKHAROFP
LONDON, August 11.?A further
series of surprising successes by the
armies of Generals Sakharoff and Let
chitzky were announced to-day by the
Russians. The most important of these
successes were the capture of the im
portant railway junction and town of
j Stanislau. the occupation of Monas
j teryszka and the seizure of Important
I positions on the Zlota Lipa line,
j Coupled with these victories was the
I capture of many thousand of priso
j oners, especially on the right bank of
: the Sereth, where 5.000 Teutons were
I taken.
The Germans appeared to regard the
Kovrl-Lemberg sector as tho most crlt
, ical mi the eastern front, and the ap
pointment of Field Marshal von Hin
denburg to the chief command un
doubtedly had the effect of temporarily
. stemming the Russian advance on the
| northern section of the line But Field
: Marshal von Hindcnburg does not hold
i the controlling command over the troops
| guarding the .southern approaches to
I Lemberg, where General Letchltzky,
! having taken Stanisl.au and being with*
; in striking distance of Halicz, is rap
j idly completing his encirclement of the
army of General fount von Bothmer. '
i The possession of Stanislau and Ko
j lomea makes secure the Russian pos
i session of Bukowma and gives them a
i base for an invasion of Hungary.
The German oliicial statement to-day
admitted that a regrouping of the Teu
tonic forces was taking place in order
to meet the new positions of the Rus
sian army.
The Italians continue to press their
advantage gained with the capture of
! Gorizia, having accupied the whole of
the Doberdo plateau, the scene of much
desperate fighting, in addition to cap
' luring several towns in the direction
of Trieste, their immediate objectice.
Nothing sensational is happening on
the western front, where the entente
j allies maintain a steady pressure. Al
! though the British forces have shown
! little activity north of the Somme, the
! French report the capture of additional
| German trenches near Maurepas and
; :i fortilied quarry north of the Ham
| wood.
i COMl'Kl.t.KI) TO ?.i\K WAV
15V SLPKRIOR FORCES
BHRLIN. August 11 tvia London).-*
| Austro-German troops in the region of
| .donas'.er-yska at points on the
j |.?niester and in the Bystritza River
I regions of Galicla have been compelled
? to give way because of the superiority
of hostile forces at some places, say*
to-day's War Ofllce statement.
Counterattacks brought the engage*
ments to & standstill, and a regroup*
