THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAH
aJvmji iivit PHOENIX, ARIZONA, SATURDAY MORNTNCJ, AUGUST 12, 1916
8 PAGES
VOL. XXVII, NO. 8G
E FURTHER
DDISIWf
DEC
lyiiiw
RUSSIANS- MM
CTTO
COUPLED WITH HE1 KOHIES
IS THE GAPTURE OF SEVERAL
OF
PRISONERS
(By Republican Associated Press Leased Wire)
LONDON, Aug., 11. A further series of surprising successes by the
armies of Generals Sakharoff and Letchitzky were announced today by
the Russians. The most important of these successes were the capture
of the important railway junction and town of Stanislau; the definite oc
cupation of Monasterzyska and the seizure of important positions on the
Zlota Lipa line. Coupled with these victories was the capture of many
thousands of prisoners, especially on the right bank of the Sereth where
the prisoners taken number 5,000.
The Germans appeared to regard the Kovel-Lemberq sector as the
most critical on the eastern front ar.d the appointment of Field Marshal
von Hindenbura to the chief command undoubtedly had the effect of
temporarily stemming the Russian advance on the northern section
of the line. But Field Marshal Hindenbtirg, does not hold the controlling
command over the troops guarding the southern approaches to Lemberu,
wl.ere General Letchitzky, having taken Stanislau and being within
striking distance of Halich, is rapidly completing his encirclement of the
army of General Count Von Bothmer.
The possession of Stanislau and Kolomea makes sure the Russian
possession of Bukowina and gives the'" base for an invasion of Hungary,
The German official statement to admitted that a re-grouping o
the Teutonic forces was taking place " order to meet the new positions
of the Russian army.
Nothing sensational is happening on the western front, where the
rtente allies maintain a steady pressur- Although the British forces
have shown little activity north of th Somme, the French report the cap
ture of additional German trenches nMr Maurepas and a fortified quarry
north of the Hem woods.
I In observation of the enemy, who. re
tired to their entrenchments."
The Danish steamer Danevang
bound from Haporanda, Sweden for
! Hull, has been sunk by a submarine
In the North Sea. according to a
lieuter dispatch from Copenhagen.
The crew wan saved.
The Norwegian steamer Arandti,
j 1,838 tons gross, which waa reported
j on August 7 to have been sunk, has
Republican A. P. Leased Wire i been towed Into Moville bay.
LONDON. Aug 11. German casu-1 woya (.nipping agency announces
ii. ai ine r rencn sailing vessel An
nette Marie (117 tons) and the French
German Losses
to Date Over j
Three Million ,
allies during July, according to a
table compiled here from German
casualty lints, totalled 12:,54U, bring
ing the grand total since the com
mencement of the war, taken from !
the aaine source to 3,135,177. j
Men killed or who died of wounds
during July numbered 21.16; those
who died of sickness, 2.t)6'; mix-ting,
lj,3J4; severely wounded, 17,807; !
wounded. 6,654; slightly wounded, &',- '
117 I
The wounded remaining with their i
units are given as V.614. According I
t' these limn since the tommenrement '
i.f the ar men killed or who have
dlej of wounds total 73j,8$6; died of
m knexs, . 4n,S44; . priBontrs, 1S",,7J; j
miming, If. Mi; severely wounded,
42S.175; wounded, JS1.0S5; slightly I
Wounded. 1,162.158: wounded remain-
in.; will, iheir units, 17.74-2. 'The
fig'iren given do not Include naval
casualties or losses to the colonial
forcer.
Kirhting between the torlt'iBh and
Turkish forces In Egypt, east of tne
hues canal, continued or. August
nnd 10 with no important successes
I jr either side, according to an of
ficial statement issued this evening.
Turkish counter attacks caused Brit
ish cavalry to fill back but the
Turks later retired to their entrench
ments, the statement adds. The state
ment follows:
"On the ninth of August the Turks
who were holding a line running
north and south through Bireblad,
with their right on the Panlawill la
goon and their left thrown back In a
curve to the southeast, were heavily
pressed by our mounted troops. They
made three counter attacks ail of
which were repulsed. About 2 v. m,
they made a general counter attack
along the whole line. Our cavalry
then fell back slowly.
"Our runs shelled large "tacks of
stores and convoy at a. c'istan-e of
only 2,000 yard, the Turks replying
to thix bombardment with what are
reported to be six-Inch howitzers.
"The enemv's strength Is estimated
at about .on0 men. including a fresh
regiment which was not encased In
the action at Romani. HI casualties
we-e very heavy.
"On the tenth our rsvnlrv remained
steamer Henri Kliza tons) have
been xunk.
Norweciian Craft Sunk
CHRISTIANSAND, Norway, Aug.
11, (Via London) The Norwegian
steamsnip Rugnarok from Oolhenbnrg
for Rouen, has been xunk in the
North Sea. as the result of an ex
ploHion. Her crew was saved.
Tiber Is Burned
MARSEILLES. Aug. Jl The French
ftoamer Tibor. with a cargo of In
flammable caught fire on August 5
and hank.
'Pitiless Publicity" Is Demanded By Candidate Hughes
' & & & & & . i ...
PROGRESSIVISI AND HUGHES ENDORSED
'ADMINISTRATION
RAILROAD FUSS KEEPS i
PRESIDENT AT HOMEI
I WASHINGTON,. Aug.,. 11.
! President Wilson decided tonight
J to give up a, week-end cruise he
I had planned to take on the May-
I flower. he"ause White House f- j
I ficialx said, he waa anxioUH to
keep in close touch with the nego- I
I tiations in New York for evert- I
I ir.g a general railroad strike. I
Q n
FEDERATION
OF
UUff
S TO END
HI
'5
PLEDGED
aca WILSON
GOVERNOR SURVEYING
FLOODED DISTRICTS
FAULTS SROULD
BE IDE 1 1
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BILL1NUS, Mont., Aug. 11. Charles
Hughes, addressing a Chautauqua
Fleet Comes Out
t UIT,.MlAUb.1, AUK. II 1 V 111 l-OIl-
dor., Aug. 12.) A large German fleet
of dreudnanghts. cruisers, destroyers
and submarines came nut of the Kiel
canal Thursday, according to the Co
enh:igen newspapers.
Five Thousand Taken
TETROGRAD, Aug. 11 In the
fighting of August 8 and 9. more than
6,000 Austrian! and Germans were
captured. The official statement fol
lows: "Fierce fighting is continuing on the
river Stokhod, in the region of Mikh
liabache", the village of Vulski Lub
aohevska, the little town of Stobyvy
ar" the village of Zaroche.
"On the river Sereth, our troops
ere advancing In the face of fierce
fighting. The enemy is making a
desperate resistance, alternating be
tween defensive actions and counter
attacks.
"Notwithstanding the enemy's ef
forts to stem our advance, our gal
lant troops, under Gen. Sakharoff, by
a series of repeated attacks, pushed
the enemv out of villages and woods
on the right hank of the river and.
having reached the bridge commanding
the heights, they are fighting before
the village of Trosianesnesgrovce.
We took here 2,500 men, and the
commander of an Austrian reeiment
vth the entire regimental staff . and
chaplain.
"In n. westerlv direction our troops
readied the left bank of the Zlota
(Special to The Republican)
TUCSON, August II. The Arizona
State Federation of Labor tonight
closed the lurgest, most harmonious
and most successful convention ever
held by that organization. The next
convention will be held at Morencl, the
latter having defeated Phoenix on a
close vote.
Today's session was a long ousy one
and many subjects were panned upon.
The endorsement of Governor Hunt
was made by a unanimous Mte in the
following terms:
"Whereas, By his handling of labor
disputes in Arizona during the past
eighteen months and more especially
during the strike at Clifton, Morencl
and Metcalf during the latter part of
1815, the chief executive has estab
lished for the state a reputation that
this Is a commonwealth in which the
least of its citizens can obtain the
same measure of Justice as the most
powerful, and
"Whereas, As a reward for his stand
for social Justice he has been assailed
by press, pulpit and by all the agents
of greed and privilege within and with
out the borders of the state and a great
many well meaning people have been
influenced against him, and
"Whereas, The copper barons of the
state, through their agents, attempted
to recall Governor Hunt for hla official
acts and although the movement failed
the aspersions cast upon him during
his administration have compelled him
to come before the people of the state
of Arizona in the coming election for
vindication,
("Therefore. lie it resolved that we
call upon the people of this state not
to allow themselves to be misled and
influenced in this campaign by the at
tacks of the corporation press and their
hirelings and that In later years we
may not be pointed out as another
state that crucified the man who fought
for a little more Just.ce for the toiler."
A resolution was adopted asking for
a compensation law applying to in
jured state, .county and city employes.
Money was appropriated to Kl I'aso
and Minnesota strikes and a few other
organization purposes while the year's
naval building program was con
demned. To guard against improper wage rat
ing In Arizona mines the convention
declared that:
"Whereas, The wage rates in the
copper camps of Arizona are based
upon a sliding scale as published
monthly in the Mining and Engineer
ing Journal of New York in confor
mity with the market quotations as an
nounced In said Journal and
"Whereas, According to the Mining
and Engineering Journal the output of
(Continued on Pare Two)
(Continued on Page Two)
Mediators Seemingly Fail
and Great Strike Imminent
(Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, Aug. 11. Whether the
leaders of 400.000 emp?oyes of the rail
roads of the country will make good
their threat of a general strike unless
their demands for an eight-hour day
and time and one-half for overtime are
granted by the managers of 235 rail
road systems, probably will be known
tomorrow. It was learned here tonight
from an authoritative source. '
The only hope of a peaceful settle
ment apparently rested tonight on the
possibility that the men might be In
duced to accept a new form of arbitra
tion, although thus far they have
steadfastly refused all such proposals.
Their chief objection to arbitration has
been lack of representation upon any
of the boards provided undetr existing
statutes.
The members of the federal board of
mediation and conciliation, while de
clining to discuss the situation, are
said to be hopeful that an expansion
of the size of the board provided for
under the Newlands act may meet this
objection. Effort to obtain from
Washington approval of this plan was
reported to have been responsible for
an apparent suspension of the media
tors' activities today.
If this suggestion Is not accepted.
It waa said tonight, the mediation
hoard will have failed in Its efforts
and the only recourse will be an appeal
to President Wilson to use his influ
ence to avert a strike. It was pointed
out, however, that the president's pow
ers will be limited to suggestion and
recommendation.
After deliberating the greater part of
last night, Commissioners William A.
Chambers, Martin A. Knapp and G. W.
W. Hangar, of the United States board
of mediation and conciliation, were to
day no nearer a solution of the "dead
lock in the dispute between the four
trrantlnz of their demands for an
eight-hour day and time and a half
nvArtlm
A formal request for a. twenty-four
hour de av in the negotiations was
made by the federal board to the
union men today when they assembled
railroad brotherhoods of the country , to receive the mediators, and It was
and their employers than they were reported that the board, unless there
yesterday. was an unexpected change In the slt-
The efforts of the mediators to uation In that time, was prepared to
avert a nation-wide strike were vir- Buggest to President Wilson inai ne
tually at a halt, due to the fact, it was
reiKirted, that the railroads refused to
grant any concessions other than ar-
intervene.
"We don't Intend." said W. ,S. Stone,
chief of the Brotherhood of Railroad
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo., Aug.
11. The National Womans' party in
executive conference here today pledg
ed itself to use its best efforts in the
twelve equal suffrage states to defeat
the democratic candidate for presi
dent: congratulated the progressive,
prohibition and socialist parties upon
tiieir indorsement of suffrage for
women by national action, and com-'
mended the position of Charles Evans
Hughes, the republican nominee.
i ne statement or policy was con
tained in three resolutions unani
mously adopted, setting forth the at
titude of the Womans' partv: firstlv.
with respect to the democratic party;
secondly, with respect to the progres
sive, prohibition and socialist parties.
and, finally, upon the announced stand
of Charles K, Hughes upon national
equal suffrage. The text of the first
resolution said:
"Whereas, the present administra
tion under President Wilson and the
democratic party, have persistently
opposed the passage of a national suf
frage amendment, and
"Whereas, each qf the other national
parties, either by their nlatform or
through their candidates, are pledged
to the passage of a federal amendment
enfranchising women,
"Therefore, be it resolved, that the
National Womans' party, so long as
the opposition of the democratic party
continues, pledges itself to use its best
efforts in the twelve states where
women Vote for president, to defeat
the democratic candidate for president
and in the eleven .states where woim i:
vote for members of congress, to de
feat the candidates of the democratic
partv for--rang rex. "
The second resolution read:
"Resolved, that we congratulate tin
progressive, prohibition and socialist
parties upon the definite stand which
they have taken in their Indorsement
of suffrage for women by national
action."
The third resolution said:
"Resolved, that we commend the
position of the republican candidate
(or president. Charles Kvans Hughes,
for the unequivocal stand which he
has taken for human liberty bv his
endorsement of suffrage for women I
national action, and assure him of our
appreciation of his statesmanlike position."
Formal adoption of nn election policy
followed a day of strenuous activity
I'V leaders and members of the party.
Concerted effort to secure a formal
Indorsement of the candidacy of Mr.
Hughes was defeated, although advo
cates of what was termed a "positive
policy" expressed gratification and the
resolution commended his stand.
Representatives of the progressive,
socialist and prohibition parties also
sought formal pledges of support, but
professed to be well pleased with the
action of the conference.
Twenty-fiw Colorado members of
the conference, former members of the
democratic party, .sent a telegram to
President Wilson, urging him to secure
the enactment of -the federal suffrage
amendment "so we will not be com
pelled to conduct a campaign against
you. Among the signers were a num
tier who urged the conference to form
ally denounce the national administra
tion.
National officers for the womans'
narty. including Miss Alice Paul of
New Jersey; Miss Anne Martin, chair
man, and Miss Mable Vernon, secre
tary, who led the movement to pre
vent nn Indorsement of Mr. Huehea.
or any other candidate or party, were
apparently elated at the result of the
conference. The non-partisnn charac
ter of the womans' purty, they said
had been maintained and members
were in a nositlon to devote eir en
tire energies toward the passage, of
(Continued on Page Three)
o
Wilson Thinks
of Making Trip
Across Country
(By Republican Associated Press Leased Wire)
CHARLESTON. W. Va., Aug. 11 Governor H. D. Hatfield, accompanied
by Aijutant General John C. Bond, left here this afternoon to survey the audience in a hip tent on the village
situation in the Cabin Creek and other districts swept by a flood last square here tonight, prefaced his ad
Wednesday. Because of the condition of the roads it will be necessary vocacy of a protective tariff with thu
Tor inem to wais ine enure aisianQe rrom ine rvanawana river.
The qovernor toniqht camped out with the soldiers now on duty in the
flcod district. Dr. S. L. Jepson, state health commissioner, went to the
Dry Branch district today where he will superintend the bringing about of
better sanitation.
Adiutant General Bond issued a statement before leaving based on the
reports of members of the national oi.rd of West Virginia now on relief
duty, showinq that 38 persons are missing. Of this number 16 are missing
at Ferndale. five at Orange, 11 at Cabin Creek, 4 at Horse Creek and 2 at
Peytona.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
MACKINAC ISLAND, Mich.. Aug.
1. lr. John Ii. Murphy, of Chicago,
one of the world's most renowned sur
geons, died today suddenly at a hotel
here while on an outing. An attack of
heart disease was the immediate cause
of death. Dr. Murphy had been in
poor health for several months, and
some had ascribed his condition to the
poisoned soup partaken of at the ban
quet given to Archbishop Mundelein at
the University Club, Chicago, last j
winter.
lir. Murphy, who was recently
knighted by pope Benedict for his re
searches in surgery, was-only 5S years
old. He had been active for many
years, having made many advances in
the treatment of diseases that had
previously baffled medical experts.
His pioneer surgery in cases or ap
pendicitis, later in the treatemnt of
other intestinal disorders, and more
recently in the serum neutralization of
rheumatic and other joint troubles.
had made him known all over the
world.
Most Prominent Surgeon
CHICAGO. Aug. 10. Dr. Murphy
was the third prominent Chlcagoan to
die out of several hundred- who ate
poisoned soup at the banquet to Arch
bishop Mundelein hist winter at the
University Club. Physicians have said
that these deaths were not due to the
after effects of the poison put In the
bitration, while the men persist in i Engineers, "to wait very long on tne
(heir firm stand for the unequivocal mediators' . . . ,
Debate On Shipping Bill
- Is Dragging In Senate
Republican A. P. Leased Wire" t'-ehant marine, attacked the stock
WASHINGTON, Aug., ll.-Debate ! holding provision as a danBerouB step
t,,nrnt-H nnUIirTIHlPllf OWnerShlO B f(l
on the administration shipping bill ' . , mimerotis letters from ship own-'that the campaign trip of Charles K
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Aug. 11. President
Wilson is seriouslv considering
trans-continental campaign tri.p Con
Bressional callers at the Whitei House
today gained the impression that 1:
virtually had decided on fcuch a step,
but l ficialx si1 id later that his plans
fji the campaign still were uncertain
and depended largely upon congress.
Senator Phelan cf California called
today to urge the president to go us
far west us California and received
word that a definite reply could be
exr ected in about two weeks.
Democratic leaders insisted today
T FAILURE
CAUSES DEATH
I
I
NOTHING NEI
IN NOTES III
FADAD;
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, August 11. Notes
from Great Britain and Austria regard- j f jrerment should be left to
ing the proposed American relief oer- I pu'ilican party.
declaration that if he had been elect
ed president, nothing would be
"pulled off for private benefit at the
public expense if he could prevent it.
Mr. Hughes also adopted a demo
cratic slogan of the 1912 campaign
"pitiless publicity."
"1 desire in ail that we do in this
campaign," Mr. Hughes said, "to have
what wax called a little while ago,
four years ago, 'pitiless publicity.' I
want pitiless publicity with respect
to the pork barrel. .
"I want pitiless publicity with re
rpect to the sectionalism of this ad
ministration. I want pitiless publicity
with respect to the extravagance and
wastefulness of this administration.
"I want pitiless publicity with re
spect to the incompetence of ap
pointees of this administraeion. Let
i:s see that we have America first in
the hearts of every American, of
whatever race or creed, and also "
America equal to her tasks America,
efficient."
Mr. Hughes also assailed the ad
ministration for having changed its
tariff views since 1912 and repeated
his declaration in favor of a protec
tive tariff whose enactment and en
tile re-
ntion in famine-stricken districts of 'I .desire to see a orooer attitude
Russian Poland held by the Teutonic toward business in this country." he
contain no new ; said. "I have done my share in at
tempting to correct abuses and what
I have just said must be supplement
ed by the remark that if I am elect-
allies received today
proposals.
The British foreign secretary's, note
dated August refers to the vague
ness and inaccuracies" of the latest ea- 'n connection with the tariff legis-
:erman communication on the subject. ! 'ation there will be nothing pulled off
characterizes as "baseless" the state- ror private oenerit at the public ex
ment that it would be impossible to j Itnse if I know it and can prevent it.
import any foodstuffs into Poland be- I "If I im chosen. I propose to de
fore October 1 and adds that continua- ! v"t? whatever ability I possess to
tion of such a controversy would seem . l;ave things done right in this country
useless j for the interest of the people believ-
"His majesty's government," the 1 '"5, "?y "art " achieve honor
note continues, "now have before them'" " 11 " .iu
the present statement of the German
government in regard to northern Po
land and the statement of the Austro
Hungarian government in relation to
Serbia which I had the honor to bring
to the attention of the United Slates
government in my note of July 20. Both
statements are diametrically opposed
to the assertions of those who submit
constant appeals to the allied govern
ments on behalf of those occupied ter
ritories. "His majesty's government note that
In the opinion of the German govern
ment, further negotiations are Toid
Hie only success it deserves, It is a
party of service: and I shall not
prostitute the offices of the United
Stales for partisan rewards of in
corr.ietent persons.
"I hnve something to do with cut-
i ting out abuse, but I believe that in
this country- we must be strong
enough to prevent abuses, to prevent
monopolistic practices; fearlessly to
prevent any action inimical to the
public interest while at the same time
we encnuraee honest American en
thusiasm, endeavor to have our for
eign commerce extended and in everv
way make the American name com-
ol purpose, in these circumstances ins , mcreiallv n nam of th firat r,,ir
soup. It is said, by jean crones, a cook -w - n j , . . ."'"""'"i1 l"e worm.
the club. These medical experts j , " ,. . j I Ann I desire that no one need
ii iu me Kovrroiiit-iii 01 iu: . mi hang 1 is head in shame. We are not
States to take such further steps, if , a war.ijke people. We do no; mean
at
said it was merely coincidental that
Andrew J. Graham, a banker, and
Judge Richard E. Burke had failed In
health from the time of the banquet
and finally died, while other partakerx
of the soup had been in feeble health
since the dinner.
Dr. Murphy was president of the
American Medical Association and of
the Clinical Congress of Surgeons of
America in 1SI13. He was one of the
foremost operators of his time. His
clinic at the Mercy Hospital in Chicago
was a mecca for surgeons all over the
world. From twenty to several times
that number of distinguished medical
men from F.urope, as well as this con
tinent, would, be found among the stu
dents almost any day that Murphy was
to operate.
Dr. Murphy reached pre-eminence
and
any. as they shall think right
useful.
The Austrian note In the form of a
memorandum handed Ambassador Pen-
field August 7 and intended as an In
to threaten anybody. We do not
want anything from anybody that we
are not entitled to, but when we say
n thing the world should know that
we mean it and that we are able to
termeaiaie expression penuing a ior- i enforce it
mat answer ty f.mperor t rancis jos- Tne nominee repeated previous at-
sepn to t-rosiaent v uson s personal : tacks
apieal. says:
"Reply will be transmitted subse
quently to the arrival of original letter.
In the meantime the minister of for
eign affairs notifies the ambassador
for tentative information that Austro
Hungarian military authorities cherish
lively interest in any measures tending
to help the population of occupied ter
ritories lacking provisions and promote
as far as possible any effort to arrive
(Continued on Page Two)
(Continued on Page Three)
INFANTILE PARALYSIS IS HIT
THOUGHT DHI1S IN CHINA
oragged ogsin today. Senator Gall- ! ers to show the increasing cost of
Inger.' the minority leader and Senator operation which the government would
Harding and Jones continuing the
republican attack on the measures
before an almost deserted senate.
Senator Galllnger announced that
the republicans expected to conclude
their remarks In time to permit a
vote on the bill by tomorrow or Mon
day. He npse'ted the measure would
not be effective In promoting the
hnvo to hear.
A prediction that the bill would fall
utterly to Induce American ship own
ers to enter the trans-oceanic field
was mnda al'io by Senator Harding,
who asserted that Its qnly effect
would be to attract foreign built ships
to compete In the American coast
wise trade.
Hughes. the republican nominee,
would have no effect on the presi
dent's plans.
The president today completed his
speech of accepting the democratic
nomination. It will be shorter than
that delivered by Mr. Hughes, nnd In
addition to replying to the criticisms
of the republican nominee, will reviev
in detail the legislative achievements
of tiie administration.
Republican A. P.. Leased Wire
'NEW YOLK, Aug., 11. Infantile
paralysis is not considered especially
dangerous in China, where it has been
known for centuries and where it is
attributed to atmospheric conditions,
due to hot, humid weather.-Dr. !ee
Hang Gee nnd Dr. Yuen Hook Ting
reported to Health Commissioner
Emerson here today.
The Chinese physicians made their
report after on investigation of cases
of the disease now lieing treated in
hospitals. The atmospheric condition
responsible for the epidemic is known
in China as "Wong sah" they" assert,
and is similar to the "Bermuda high"
which rcctntly passed over the east
ern states.
Health Commissioner Kmerson said
tonight that if it is shown that the
medicine the Chinese recommend is
not harmful, and if there is reason
to believe it may do good. It might
be used.
Improvement in hospital cases treat
ed by blood serum was reported again
today but difficulty Is experienced in
obtaining enough of the serum.
Dr. I.eroy Vail. SO years old. was
taken to a hospital today with in
fantile paralysis.
fift'-oir;ht case? in the citv
Monday morning. Since July,
have been forty-eight cases
twenty-eight deaths.
since
there
with
Quarantine Extended
HARRISHURG. Pa., Aug., 11.
Pennsylvania's quarantine for Infan
tile paralysis was today extended to
all borders of the state.
on the course of the adminis
tration toward Mexico, also his dec
laration that the administration h'd
t rouciit this country into serious dif-"?
ficnlties with Mexico.
"No one could very easily, without
the utmost follv, have brought us into
war," Mr. Hnghes said, "but we have
been brought fjrjcjcser to it than we
should have been ' by the weakness
and vacillation that tjiis administra
tion has shown."
Mr. Hughes called attention to the
fact that Montana is the first north
western state to be visited on this
trio where women have the vote and
reiterated the declaration that ha
wanted the issue speedily settled by
amendment to the federal constitu
tion grunting? woman suffrage. The
nominee also emphasized what he
termed the need for Industrial and
commercial cooperation and prepar
edness he predicted that America
would have after the war.
Inasmuch, he said, as . Within ten
vears after the Russo-Japanese war,
P.ussia. instead of being steeped in
i debt, had doubled in prosperity.
th-re was everv indication that re
covery from financial burdens Im
posed on the present European, bel
ligerents would be much more rapid
than anticipated now. This, he said,
made dotthlv important the need for
Immediate preparedness In the Unit-
(Contlnned on hnge Two)
Surtan on Big Incomes
To Be Increased Largely
More In Philadelphia
PHILADELPHIA. Aug.. 11. Sixteen
pew cases of infantile oaralysis and
four deaths were reported in this rity
for the twenty-four hours ending this
morning at a o'clock and a total of
Republican A. P, Leased W're
WASHINGTON. Aug., 11. The
democratic senate caucus tonight ap
proved a committee amendment to
the revenue bill which would increase
the surax on incomes in excess of
$2,000,000 from ten -per ce'it to IS
per cent. Withdrawal by the com
mittee of an amendment to reduce
the income exemptions to $3,000 and
$2,000 respectively, -for married and
single persons, prevented a threatened
caucus revolt on that issue, and that
there vas a persist nt fight by sev
eral senators to increase further sur
tax on large Incomes.
Amendments to rtm the surtax as
high as fifteen, twntv and even 25
per cent on incomes in excess of $2,-
000,000 were advocated in place of the
P! per cent rate proposal which
finally prevailed. Among senators
who urged the higher taxes were Reed
of Missouri, Myers, of Montana and
Tittnian, of Nevada. The caucus ap
proved the provisions making the
normal income tax two per cent in
stead of the present one and adopted
an amendment providing that no as
sessment should apply to dividends
norm Ing before March 1, 1913 the
date the increasement income tax be
came effective
The caucus did not reach tonight
the inheritance tax increases or the
amendment substituting net profit on
manufacturers of munitions. It will
meet again tomorrow afternoon.
