I "Way's MetalTrimF TLaMA.J &iv"vXwv I 4 P. E CITY EDITION !
I - II ,11 PU II Lit IL Slll II llrl III TWENTY-SIX PAGES
I New York, Aug. 12.-Sllver, 66 Mc- feLJP y W 5 W 4
$26.5027.QQ. 465 Showers Tonight or Sunday; Some. 1
I . ' . vhat Cooler InVJorth Central Portion IIH
l. ZIZ FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. 1
l Fortysixth Year-No. 193. Pric. OGDEN CITY, UTAH, SATURDAY EVENING, AUGUST 12, 1916. s.c.nd-cus, Matter at the P.B,.m, OBdi: i
Key To Lemberg About To Fall I
Italian Forces Are Still Advancing I
, ! RUSSIANS PUSHING GREAT DRIVE
AND AUSTRIA! FALLING BACK
I I
t j Muscovite Cavalry Giving Teutonic Forces No Time to Re
si form Disordered Ranks and Prepare for Serious Stand
j j Halicz Expected to Fall Soon Wedge Driven Back
I of General Von Bothmer Promises to Put Aus-
trian Force in a Sack Fierce Battles Pro-
gressing Along the Stokhod.
1 j Rome, Aug- 11, via London, 6 p. m. Italian troops are advanc-
j lng on the Carso plateau, the war office announced today. The Aus-
j trains are still holding out on the lulls east of Gorizia.
The Italians have occupied the town of Oppacchiasella on the
i Carso plateau,
t.
) The town of Oppacchiasella- is about one mile east of the Valone
3 line, which the Austrians were reported by the Italians yesterday to
have taken up after the capture of the Doberdo plateau by the Italians.
This indicates that the Italians have succeeded in pushing back
g the Austrians a substantial distance further after clearing" the
t Doberdo plateau. Oppacchiasella is six miles southwest of Gorizia.
v
; J Persistent efforts are being made
fi I by the Germans to check the allied
: I offensive on the Somme by counter-
, :j attacking both the French and British.
t Heavy attacks were delivered last
r 3 night on tlie Franco-British lines,
'i 1 but neither were successful,
,'. I according to the allied war offices.
'I ' The French were attacked both on
'.: t the Somme north of Hem wood and
j 1 south of the river at LaMaisonette,
j? -J the artillery stopping both assaults.
The attack on the British took place
s ' north of Pozieres. London declares
' it was nowhere successful in pene-
trating the British positions and re-
i i suited in heavy losses to the Ger-
z i mans.
t j In Galicia the Russians are keeping
1 i up their impressive drive towards
fi ' Lemberg from the southeast. After
2 ; taking Stanislau, General Letchitzky
S i is pressing on toward Halicz, the
j . important railway junction to the
i .north on the Dneister and key posi
I ' "tlon in the Lemberg defenses.
j i Petrograd today reports the cross
ing of the Koropice river by the Rus-
j slans in the region north of Buczacz.
' Petrograd, Aug. 12. Via London,
2:25 p. m. Russian troops in Galicia
j have crossed the river Koropice and
j captured two villages, it was an-
1 nounced today by the war office.
I The statement follows-
, "In the region of the middle Sereth
i our troops, pursuing the enemy as he
j retreats from his fortified position,
j .' conunue to aavauce on weema,
M :.; the vicinity of Buczacz, to the -north
eg of this town, our troops are contlnu-
jj 3 Ing their advance. They have
M i crossed the river Kuroplco at some
I places by the middle stream and cap-
E tured the villages of Slobudkagurna
RJ and Folvarki. In the direction of
M ". Monasterzyska we captured the rail-
'2 way Hno running, between Monaster-
IJf, ; 23'ska and Czortkoff and the ground
d between the Zlota Lipa and the Nor,o-
-jl vanka from the villago of Kraseczuv
M up to the village of TJsciezellone.
M Stanislau Railway Junction.
H "In the region of Stanislau our
fl troops continue to cross the rivers
21 . Bystrltza-Nadvomnskol and Bj'stntza-
m . Sclotvlna to the south. Before evacu-
M ' atlng Stanislau the enemy blew up
21 i rallwav junctions and switches. Other-
M i wise the town was quite undamaged
'Am 1 an 'n perJect orcer-
B ' Petrograd, Aug. 12. Via London
Hi, 4:48 p. m. Following the capture of
m : the Important railway junction of
'jit StanlBlau, Galicia, Genoral Letchitzky
m is pressing with unabated vigor the
B movement to turn the right flank of
the army of General von Bothmer.
M Halicz, 16 miles north of Stanislau,
1 appeai-s likely to 'fall before the Rus-
19 1 slans in the near future. The Aus-
,lll' rn: nrt hiR TlOUlt
HI pursued closely by Russian cavalry
'-Mi which Is giving tho Teutonic forces
; no time to reform their disordered
' ranks and prepare to make a serious
H ; stand.
Halicz always has ben regarded as
gM, ' the key to Lemberg. Once the Rus-
e ', slans are In possession of that tovn,
ijW they will have before them no uatur-
1 al obstacles and avIII have plenty of
JIM good road's to Lemberg.
B i The capture of Monasterzyska, ten
B i. ratlea north of the Dneister, by Gen-
Wl General Scherbatchoff who threw his
fw troops across tho Zlota Llpa to co-op-
B ' erate wltn tno forces of General
!, Letchitzky on the right bank of the
i I ' Dneister south of aiarlampol, broadens
i B the Hno of attack upon Halicz. The
i M wedge Is being driven relentlessly
t H Dak of General von Bothmer's Tar-
j B nopol position and promises to put
.1 this Austrian force in a sack from
rill wlllch it will find It difficult to ex-
f H . trlcato itself. ff
i . South of Brody General Sakharott
j H is operating in a less spectacular
I HA way Dut with success. He is graa-
Wk ually turning Count von Bothmer s
I HI left flank and threatens interruption
1 Bt of railway communication with Lpm-
I HI- rg alon the Tarnopol-Lemberg line,
ggm fierce battles are progressing along
Ifll: Stokhod with yarying success
Tho counter offensive attempted by
the Germans north of the Kovel-Sar-ney
railroad appears to have been
stopped by the Russians who in turu
have assumed the offensive in tho
vicinity of Lubashev, forty miles south
of Pinsk.
Germans Make Vigorous Attacks.
Paris, Aug. 12, 12:35 a. m. A vig
orous attack north of Hem wood on
the Somme front was undertaken last
night by the Germans. The war of
fice statement of today says the as
sault was checked.
The Germans sustained appreciable
losses in their attack.
South of the Somme, after a' vio
lent bombardment, the Germans at
tacked La Maisonette, but the French
curtain of fire prevented the assault
ing wave of infantry from debouch
ing. During the night the French or
ganized their new positions north of
the river. Reconnoitering parties
entered the wood east of Hem station,
where numerous bodies of Germans
were found.
On the Verdun front two German
attacks in the vicinity of Fleury were
repulsed. The artillery was active In
the region of Vaux, Chapitre and
Chenols.
The statement follows:
"North of the Somme our troops
made us of the night to organize
their new front. Our reconnoitering
parties penetrated tho wood east of
Hem station where they found the
bodies of numerous Germans.
"Toward 9 o'clock In the evening,
the Germans attempted to make a
vigorous counter attack on the quar
ry north of Hem wood, which was
captured by us yesterday. Their at
tack withered under our fire and
cost them appreciable losses.
"South of the Somme after a vio
lent bombardment, tho enemy de
livered attacks against La Maison
ette. Our curtain of fire caught the
waves of men engaged in the assault
and forced them back into -their
trenches.
"On the right bank of the Meuse
(Verdun front) we advanced during
the night in the region south of the
Thiaumont work. In the region ol
Fleury two German nttacks, de
livered respectively about 9 o'clock
at night and 3 o'clock In the morn
ing against our trenches In the vil
lage and our positions to the north
west, were entrely repulsed. The
artillery struggle was very active in
the sector of Vaux-Chapltre and
Chenois."
Strong Infantry Attacks.
London, Aug. 12. A strong infantry
attack was delivered last night by
tho Germans on the Somme front
north of Pozieres. According to an
announcement irom tuo war oinco to
day, this attack was repulsed with
heavy losses.
The announcement follows:
"The enemy renewed his efforts
to capture trenches we lately wrested
from him on the high ground north
of Pozieres by delivering a strong
Infantry attack yesterday evening,
supported by heavy artillery fire. They
attack was repulsed with heavy loss
and nowhere did he succeed in pierc
ing our positions.
"Elsewhere along the Brtlsh front
there was no change."
Turks Driving Russians Back.
Canstantlnople, Friday, Aug. 11,
via London, Aug. 12, 12:55 p. m
The Russian forces in the Bitlls-Mush
I sector of .Turkish Armenia, have been
driven further by the Turks, the war
office announced today In the follow
ing dispatch:
"Tho Russian force which, owing
tn had roads and the difficulties
created for us by the weather, es
SbUshed itself on the Bitlls-Mush
line has been compelled gradually to
retreat, leaving guns, rifles and pris
oners in our hands. The Russian re
treat was caused by our heavy at,
tnrts and the pressure of our right
wing oTthe steep Ohasn heights.
Oiir advance continues toward the
passes north of Bitlis and Mush.
"In Persia our jxoops are continu
ing the pursuit of the enemy in the
vicinity of Hammandan."
British Steamer Sunk.
Madrid, via Paris, Aug. 12, 1:35 a
m. The British steamer Antiope,
1,908 tons, has been sunk by a sub
marine. The crew took refuge In two
boats, one of which was picked up by
the Greek steamer Nicola Anthana
soulis. The other boat is missing.
oo
CLEARING HOUSE BANKS.
New York, Aug. 12. The statement
of the actual condition of clearing
house banks and trust companies for
the week shows that they hold $103,
087,140 reserve in excess of legal re
quirements. This is a decrease of
$9,224,640 from last week.
oo
M RMfM
German Seaplanes Drop
Bombs One Officer and
Six Men Injured.
London, Aug. 12, 4:36 p. m. An air
raid on the British naval port of
Dover by two German aeroplanes oc
curred this afternoon. An official
statement says four bombs were
dropped, one officer and six men be
ing slightly injured, but little ma
terial damage being done.
"The hostile seaplanes," the state
ment reads, "appeared over Dover
this aftemoon. Four bombs were
dropped but no material damage was
done beyond the breaking of a few
windows.
"Anti-aircraft" guns came into"' ac
tion and aeroplanes went in pursuit
of the raiders, who made off sea
wards. The casualties were one of
ficer and six men slightly injured."
BRAVE EXPLOIT
OF AMERICAN
Brings Down German Aero
plane in Single-handed
Fight
Paris, Aug. 12, 12:12 p. m. G. Luf
bury, of New Haven, Conn., Is the
American aviator who was mentioned
i In the official French announcement!
of last night for having brought down
a German aeroplane Inside the French
lines south of Douaumont. He was
flying at a height of 12,000 feet to
ward the German lines, which he per
ceived 3,000 feet below him a German
aeroplane moving toward the French.
He planed swiftly down, working his
machine gun at the same time, as he
was alone in the aeroplane.
Tho German machine was hit re
peatedly and fell In flames, Lufbury
landed safely. It was his second ex
ploit of the kind within a week.
nn
All Kentucky, Ohio and Ver
mont Militia Ordered to
Move by War Depart-.
ment.
Washington, Aug. 12. Twenty-five
thousand more state troops were to
day ordered to the border by the war
department. All Kentucky, Ohio and
Vermont troops were ordered to move
and all departmental commanders
wero Instructed to send troops as
soon as equipped.
The following announcement was
made:
"Commanding general, Eastorn de
partment, has been directed "to sond
Kentucky troops to the border as
soon as they have been equipped and
transportation can be obtained and
to see that special attention Is given
to getting Vermont troops to tho
border as soon as possible.
"Commanding general, Central de
partment, has been directed to Bend
Ohio troops to the border as soon as
they are equipped and transportation
can be obtained.
"All department commanders have
been directed to send all other na
tional guard troops in their respective
departments to border ns soon as they
are equipped and transportation can
bo obtained."
It was stated at the war department
. that under these orders national
, guard regiments now b.eld at state
I AUSTRALIANS IN TRENCHES USE
CATAPULT TO HURL BOMBS AT FOE
The catapult shown In the picture, which is operated by Australian
troops in France, is one of the efficient aids brought into play by the troops
in the trenches. Fashioned on a larger scale after the schoolboy's "bean
shooter," the machine speeds the explosive bombs on their way to tho
enemy trenches, spreading death and destruction.
mobilization points would be sent to
the border without waiting until they
were recruited to the mobilized
strength.
oo
Roasts Administration for Its
Appointments and Bitterly
Assails Secretary Mc
Adoo. TOO MANY FROM SOUTH
Denounces Democrats for
What They Did to the Sugar
Industry.
Helena, Montana, Aug. 12. Charles
E. Hughes, continuing his attacks on
the administration for its appoint
ments, today charged Secretary Mc
Adoo, "upon reliable information,"
with having replaced Henry N. Clapp,
formerly confidential secretary to
John G, Carlisle, with Daniel E. Finn,
son of "Battery Dan" Finn, a Tam
many leader as assistant appraiser of
merchandise at New York.
"Some months after Clapp was put
out of the service," Mr. Hughes, said,
"through fear of criticism on, the part
of the department, he was made an
examiner In the customs service, a
much lower position than that held
before and at a much lower compensa
tion." "The circumstances, I am reliably
informed," Mr. Hughes said, "were
these: Mr. Clapp was assistant ap
praiser of merchandise at tho port of
Now York, a position requiring ex
pert knowledge In order to secure
efficiency. His resignation was de
manded by the secretary of the treas
ury department and in his place was
appointed Daniel E. Finn, who is a
Tammany district leader and son of
"Battery Dan" Finn, of much politi
cal notoriety.
Clapp Serves 25 Year.
"Mr. Clapp had served twenty-five
years in the treasury department ser
vice. Ho rose bv merit 'from a olerk-
ship in the treasury department at
Washington which was obtained
through competitive examination, to
the position of assistant appraiser of
merchandise in New York. He had
been special agent of the traesury
department, confidential secretary to
John G. Carlisle, while secretary of
tho treasury, and held other impor
tant positions in tho service
through promotion by merit.
"He was tho expert in the de
partment at the port of Now York and
had been the right hand man of five
different appraisers and the acting ap
praiser In their absence. Some months
after he was put out of service,
through -fear of criticism on the part
of the department, he was made an
examiner in the customers' service, a
much lower position than that hold
before and at a much lower compen
sation." Too Many Southerners,
Mr. Hughes assailed the administra
tion as a "sectional administration,
and read a list of the house an sen
ate committees which had southern
men as chairmen
"I have no criticism to make' he
said, "of tho honor, tho respectability
or the agroeable character of any
of these men, but I say that -an ad
' ministration under which so many of
the chairmen of the house of repre
sentatives are represented in that
manner is a sectional administration.
It Is not an American administration
in a broad and proper sense.
South Needs Republicans.
"I want to see the south buiit up.
it can be built up. It never will be
built up, however, without Republi
can.policies being applied. I think
many southern men are beginning
to realize that. You can no more
build up this country by historic doc
trine than you could fly through the
air with the old flying machines they
experimented with thirty years ago."
The situation in the senate, Mr.
Hughes said, was much similar to that
in tho house, especially with refer
ence to the "pork barrel committees."
The administration's tariff policy also
was assailed.
Tried to Wreck Sugar Industry.
"Look what they did to the sugar
Industry," Mr. Hughes said, "They
wont ahead to wreck a great indus
try in many sections of the country.
Later they thought better of their own
action. They repeated to a degree.
I tell you we don't want legislation
of which we will have to repent. We
want some foresight in dealing with
American Industries."
Mr. Hughes again assailed the ad
ministration's foreign policy.
"It has led some nations to believe
that what It said It was not entirely
ready to stand for," Mr. Hughes said.
"We seriously impaired our prestige
at the very beginning because of the
organization of our state department."
In his statement with reference to
tho replacement of Clapp by Finn, the
nominee referred to Finn as "a district
leader without qualifications or spec
ial training for the place."
Such Acts Must Stop.
"What's the use of talking about
improvement In the American govern
ment?" Mr. Hughes Risked. "Why
should we declaim about Americanism
If we do not keep especially trained
men in the employ of the government,
if we require them to be displaced
by political workers? I am opposed
to that. It has got to stop.
"We have had in tho present admin
istration a great period of paper pro
grams. A little later wo shall have
occasion to discuss some of these
records to which so much -attention
is given. But underlying' every sort
of paper program is the great necesi
ty of proper public administration.
This administration has "fallen seri
ously short In that matter. It has
prostituted Important places to the
demands of mere partisan expediency."
oo
PLAGUE CASES
ARE UREAS!!
Infantile Paralysis Has At
tacked 6,145 Children in
New York Total
Deaths 1,371.
. w York, Aug. 12. An increase
in both deaths and new cases in the
epidemic of infantile paralysis Is
shown In today's bulletin of the
health department. Forty-two chil
dren died of the disease during the 24
hour period ending at 10 o'clock this
morning and 167 now cases were re
ported, as against 31 deaths and 165
new cases yesterday. Since the epi
demic started in June the plague has
attacked 6,145 children and there
have beenii deaths.
GREAT STRIKE OF BROTHERHOODS I
STILL HAW THE BALANCE I
Mediators Fail to Settle Differences Between Railroad Opera
tors and Union Representatives Employes to Give An
swer Tomorrow Morning Little Prospect of Men -Agreeing
to Arbitration Proposals United
States-Board in Secret Conference With
Railroad Managers.
Q.R.T. PRESIDENT CALLED TO WHITE HOUSE ; I
President Wilson Sends Message Asking for Conference With
Both Sides Before Final Break Is Made Petitions Signed
by Thousands Sent to Chief Executive.
New York, Aug. 12. No decision
was reached today by the representa
tives of the brotherhoods of railway
employes on the question of accept
ing a proposal of arbitration. They
will give their answer to the "United
States board of mediation and con
ciliation tomorrow morning.
It was reported this afternoon that
there was little prospect of the rail
road managers informing the media
tors upon what terms they are ready
to arbitrate as demanded by tho rail
way brotherhoods and the belief pre
vails that only the offices of Presi
dent Wilson could prevent a strike.
The mediators went .into secret
conference this afternoon with the
railroad managers.
President Gnrretson, of tlie Order
of Railway Conductors, said this
afternoon that he had received a per
sonal Invitation from President Wil
son to go Immediately to Washing
ton for the purpose of discussing the
strike situation.
Mr. Garretson said he should re
spond to the invitation but declined
to say when he would go.
New York, Aug. 12. Whether a
nation-wide railroad strike is to be
called or prevented still hung in the
balance today after the United States
board of mediation and conciliation
announced that mediation had Tailed,
made an. effort to induce the railroad
brotherhoods to arbitrate their diffi
culties with the railroad managers.
The brotherhoods, after discussing
an arbitration proposal, made to them
by the board under the Newlauds' act,
adjourned without reaching a deci
sion They announced that an answer
would be given tomorrow morning at
another meeting of the chiefs and
delegates of the brotherhoods.
A. B. Garretson, head of the con
ductors' brotherhood, said after the
meeting that after proposing arbitra
tion the members of the mediation
board had not Informed the men
whether the railroad managers had
any specific questions to arbitrate
and that they would propose that the
mediators obtain from the managers
a more definite proposition. He In
dicated that the arbitration proposal
was a general one and that the men
were withholding final decision to
learn if the railroads cared to be
specific.
"We arrived at no decision today,
said Mr. Garretson. "The men will
meet tomorrow morning at 10 o'clock
with the mediators and unless we find
that the mediators are In a position
to state definitely what the railroads
will agree to arbitrate there can be
no further progress In the matter.
President Sends Message.
Washington, Aug. 12. President
Wilson sent word today to the media
tors attempting to settle the threat
ened railroad strike that he would like
to consult with representatives of both
sides before there is a break.
The president was in communica
tion by telephone with the federal
mediators and asKea tuat ne do in
formed if a strike became imminent.
Up to nine o'clock he had npt received
word that the situation was hopeless.
The president Informed the media
tors that a strike must bo avoided and
that if a deadlock was reached he
would like an opportunity to talk to
the representatives of the railroad
managers and employes.
Petition to President.
Washington, Aug. 12. A petition
by 6,000 employes of the Nashville,
Chattanooga and SL Louis railway,
not members of the great brother
hoods, was presented to the president
today asking congress to pass legis
lation protecting unorganized em
ployes against a tie-up which would
result from a striko of the brother
hood members.
R T. Frazlcr of Nashville, who took
the petition to tho White House, said
more additional petitions from, unor
ganized employes of many more rail
roads would be sent to the president
In the near future.
on
OSCULATION AT ANY PRICE
Bess Why didn't you slap Jim
when he tried to kiss you?
Tess Because, dear, I'm too proud
to fight. Chaparral.
NOTED SURGEON I
TH RF RIIRIFR I
Dr. John B. Murphy, "Pioneer
in Modern Surgery" Mournedv '
by Many Friends.
Chicago, Aug. 12. Funeral arrange
ments for Dr. John B. Murphy, the j IH
noted surgeon, whose death occurred
yesterday at Mackinac Island, will be tM
completed today upon the arrival of
the body, accompanied by Mrs. Mur-
phy, shortly after noon.
The sudden death of the man who
was called the "pioneer in modern
surgery," brought forth many trib
utes 'from his former iriends and as
soclates. oo
RUNNING EIGHT I
W1THJANDITS I
Northern Durango Officers in
Almost Continuous Chase
After Outlaw Gangs.
Chihuahua City, Mexico, Aug. 12.
Reports from tho forces of General
Cavezos and Colonel Zuazua in north
ern Durango to General Trevino to
day indicate that they are engaging In
an almost continuous running fight j
with the bands under Martin Lopez
and that the bandits lost men in each
skirmish, while the government losses j
have been few.
fifinnral Trpvlno nolnted out that a
number of prominent outlaw leaders j
liavo been killed In tho last few weeks
and said that every effort Is being j
made to exterminate the leaders, It Hj
being realized that without their com-
manders it will be an easy matter to j
subjugate the bandits. ;
Announcement also was made at the j
commandancla here that the forces of i
General Domingo Arrieta have left J
Jimenez and, co-operating with Gener-
al Matias Ramos' command from . I
Escalon, are making a drive up tho j
Rio Florido, intending to sweep II
through to Oerro Gordo. With the co-
operation of the troops marching
north from Durango City, it was $
pointed out, the bandits now operating J
between Parral and Rosario will be (I fl
trapped, ll
General Trevlna announced also j
that he would afford every protection Jj
to Americans, especially those inter- I
ested in the financial development of !
Chihuahua. The guarantees he offered
are similar to those rocently extended
by General P Fllas Callas of Sonora.
It is stated here that General Tre- IH
vino will retain supreme command of
the Carranza forces in northern Mexl
co until the bandits are exterminated
and peace thoroughly restored.
Active inquiries continue to be mado
by General Trevino into the political
plot which Jose Ynez Salazar and the j
Legalists are accused of forming
against the government. More ar
rests are expected to follow. As soon
as this invesigation Is concluded, tho
five followers of Mariano Tames will
also be court martialed. U
Local municipal elections, the first
step toward the restoration of full I
civil government in this state, have 1
been set for the third Sunday in 9 !J
September. IJ
Ponsacola, Flo., Aug. 12. The . M
French armored cruiser Admiral
Aube, came Into this port today with 3
supplies and coal exhausted. She j( JH
came to anchor near the Austrian fj
steamer Lucia, tied up hero sinco tna
beginning of the war. ( :Jj JH
