n
,4
'it
ivy .
A 7
1 1
(2 A
IK'
MR. MERCHANT.
An Ad In Th'e Kugte 10 bring buyer
and Mllr together. A
r
ad Eunday, parti cloudy.
J
m ami aw- i r yi a
em m lam
AND PILOT
VOL XXX, NO. 192.
BRYAN, TEXAS, SATURDAY, AUGUST 12, 1916;
price i4.co per ak:vj::..
her
mam
iie Mm
nVTr g W'
I ; - - ' .
Crisco
Is pore and wholesome
and keepswellinwarm
weather. V
FRESH STOCK
Hardy Newton
. ,mmn m mm
t
VIGOROUS ASSAULTS AT
VARIOUS POINTS FAILED
MERCHANTS GET Ifl
IE
11
whereby cities In etch section can be
. Business Men Have Volunteered
to Help In Trade Excursion.
'" Secretary McElroy of the Commor-
rial Association said this morning that
it was gratlfyfhg to him the way the
merchant! of Dryan were cooperating
mm
bigs
i
AXES
TUt Hprmnn Trnnns nn the Western Front Have'
Inaugurated Several Severe Attacks During)
' the rast lwentyiour nours, uui rans anu
London Claim They were Kepuised witn
Heavy LossesThe Russian Troops' Are Still
Avancing and Have Captured Two More Vil
lages Since the Fall of Stanislau German Sea
Planes Bombarded Naval Port of Dqver With
Some Damage Several Killed in Powder Ex
plosion Near Vienna Italians Pushing Aus
trians Further Back. ,
ft I
Kal-Ray Raisins
, Fancy Seeded Muscatels, Packed in
Sanitary Tins.
12 Oz. Cans 15 Cents.
Reid Bros.
I . . ; '
At Result of Enactment of Delinquent
Tax Law Thers Hae Been 100 Par
Cent Increase In Redemption.
(Br Associated Press)
Austin. Texas, Aug. 12. As a result
of the enactment by the last leglsla-
SLIGH
IKE
TROOPS
HI fl. Y. EPIDEMIC DERED TO EM
.ny mi -- ...
e ii ea nf the inn nont llV there I ...
merchant, of Bryan were W In oTwr 100 per . J.i.a..hV hut Without
with hlra and hi. worker. o i number of certlflc,te. o
In charge the trade, flay tedomDtlon .ued by the comptroll- "T;:
(Br AsanrJated rress.) the Austrian, a considerable distance
. . 1 i ... . I after clearing Doberto Plateau yester
London, August 12.-A v Qorou. .t-l mJ1nm
tack north of HemwoM, on in. Th, Aurtrl.n. ar. .till hold
8omm. front, was rtaken by the '
German, .art night. The P.r. "" .JJ, u th, Rem, ,t,temt
today .ay. the aessult was cheenea "
and the Germans sustained consider-.
New York. Aug, 12. There hare
been 42 deaths and 167 new case, of
Infantile paralysis reported daring the
24 hours ending this morning at 10
o'clock. This la a slight Increase orer
the day before.
Kentucky, Virginia and Ohio Troops
Ordered to Move as Fast as
Equipped.
Air Raid on Dover.
m Associated Press.)
London, Aug. 12. An air raid on
trio which has been planned for next
Wednesday. He said that a number
of the leading merchants of the town
had already offered their aervlcea and
their automohllea and were very en
thusiastic -about the trip." On Monday
Wti. nrlfl.h' n.v.1 rurf nf rWivar hv
. . . . J t . I. . ... ...1 1 I ' r '
reaompuon issuca uj u.o London announces the Germsns oe- German seaplanes occurred this after
Terrell, comptroller. This. Mr. Ter
rell .ay, mean, that the law I. com
pelling persons to pay their taxes who
heretofore bare been delinquent,. He
... dPA AAA .Ill
luum.m.v. lesumatea tnai lau.uuu cmiucim wm
morning the committee appointed will . fl been uued by the tm, y,, flg.
.Mlnmnhll. Awflfff In ' . . . i .t..
cal year expires ai me enu oi iud
present month.
y..n nn averr automobile owner In
the city and every merchant In the
clt for help In making these trips a
auccess and you are going to be ei
peeled to respond. It la the desire
ittMv to hT not leit
than 150 car. on the excursion and no.
excuses are going to be accepted. Join
right In brother and let. get the coun
try people In Iirasoa and adjoining
counties awake to the realisation that
Bryan Is the place to come to bring
their wares to sell as well aa the place
to buy their needs for their homes.
We have the best city between Dallas
and Houston and there Is no reason
why we should not have located here
a city equal to either of theae two.
We have plenty of room on which to
build one and plenty of territory to
support one. Are yon doing your
part?
VI SHIP SIGHTED
IFL.
A four-Funnel War Ship Identified a.
French la Sighted Flag Calling for
Marine Hospital Hoisted.
VOI IIMTfFR riRPWIFN
IUI
lluAMil at r a n n tnfantrv attACk Off thC nnnn ftilh rlrnnnArl fmir Hnmha
IIVSJi w w"l , .-. -.-- uuvU) vubvm wi v''v whB " .
Somme front north of Pollers, which, j Sghtiy Injuring one officer and alx
according to th. war office, wa. re- ,mm Little' material damage was
pulsed with losses. . donek
Petrograd announces the ' Russian f ,
troops In Gallcia have crossed the. Ki,ed )n powd,f Explosion.
River Koroplce and captured two vil l ,nr Associated Prcas.1
i.... l Indon. Aur. 12. Accordinr to a
I. W. '
tl. it.n.M tiwiia arm sdvaneina on .Rnrharest telerrsm the number killed
Carso P'atesu, where they captured j in the powder factory explosion at
. a . : ... J ; . . 1 . . i f . . J . . .a ....
the town 01 uppatcomasena, ingiuv-ijuaeiu was ua, insicmu ui .v, u iiidi
Ing that the Italians have pushed back .reported.
PRESIDENT
VOID
STRIKE
Asks for Conference With Both Sides
Before Break Comes In the
Negotiations.
Plan Being Devised Whereby One City
Can Aid Another During Serious
Conflagration.
AT PETiSjlCOU
R AssorUtMl rress )
Pensacola. Fla- Aug. 12. A four
funnel war ship Identified aa a French
vessel, crosed the bar here this morn
Ine- and hoisted a quarantine flag call
!n for reserve marine hospital The
Teasel afterwards decreased It's speed
until It wss barely moving.
ntbuLnl.
pinm
atOu-IUII
(By Associated Freeo)
Dallas. Tex. Aug. 11 A pln pro-
Mina for dlstrltlni of the state
City Dads Meet and Transact Business
Brought Before Thle Body In Reg
ular Routine.
city. The council ordered them In
stalled. One will be located at the
Barron corner, one at the Claude Bell
corner, and the other on the H. K.
White corner.
Fritx Koehler appeared with refer
ence to a fence that bad been built
close to bis house across what former
ly wa. used as a street. The city en
gineer waa Instructed to make a sur
vey of the street lines In this section
Washington, Aug. 12. Twenty-live
thousand more Bute troops were or
dered to" the border b the War De
partment today. All the Kentucky,
Ohio and Virginia troops were ordered
to move, and the departmental com
manders were Instructed to send the
troops aa fast as they were equipped.
rwTm rir
fSv Aspired Prew.) II .Ml I II 1 1 1.1 I.J I
nasmngiou, Aug. it. rre. nui .
left word to the mediators attempting ' QmntnX ruMtoB H,v ,pw.
to settle the threatened railroad strike , ,nrtruetor 0 0utM whn. They
that be would like to consult with the j , Are on Duty on Border.
representatives of both sides before .
there is a break. He talked with the j (By Associated Press)
-..ji.iam lnn HIiiinM and said I Austin. Taxaa. Ana. II. Cantata J.
he would like to be Informed if the ! M. Ive. Jr U. S. A, who for the past
situation Is hopeless, me tresiaeni year nas Deen inspeciormBiruciw
said the strike must be avoided. .of Infantry, Texaa National Guard.
Strike Hangs in Balance. ' with headquarters in the adlutant gen
New York City. Aug. 12. Whether I eral's depsrtment, has been relieved
the nation-wide railroad strike Is to be , of this detail under orders from Gen-
called or prevented, still hung In the eral Funston. An Inspector-Instructor
balance today arter me Lnuea siaies
ivey oi ine sireei unea in wis acciiun
With the exception of one alderman ...
If afpeva hurl Vwsawn rnmA thu
erii in sr t-nr n rii iiibi ui luvj i eai .w-- aesBw mnmm ww-"w,
.herebv Itle. In each aectlon can be 'the entire membership of the city ew tu,norlUei of tha clt were n.
whereby Itlea In eacn aecuon can d. -- - - . ,
a i a w. t. .unartmanta' council of the City of Bryan met laat
rendered aid by the fire denartmenU. .
of surrounding cities may be perfected M mtUn () nmm uton u,
at the meeting here today of a special . WM th, .j. whlcn h,d pre.
committee of the Texa. State Fire- L,oug! flxe)i (or the Kaw Par-
men Association. The meeting f Company for the pavlnr of MoB'
to have been held some time ago but
was postponed to allow time for col
lection of data and a more complete
formation of tentative plana.
stracted to have the obstruction re
moved and the street reopened.
Pat Patterson, the tailor, came forth
protesting against an ordinance re
cently paaaed by the council whereby
the tailors of the city were restrained
ffAsn t.s flavins alnlhaM Ant i A jlrV tlfllfftP
that they had been fixed at t25.000 . of thelr ihop.
a at a aaa M.-ti la In avcasa of tha .. . . n .
auu ,j,v, wu.v .- .Alter consiaerania discussion jnr. ra-
amount of money to be expended 'ter-on t0!d that he could use a
board of mediation and conciliation
announcing that mediation had failed.
made an effort to Induce the railroad
brotherhoods to arbitrate their differ
ences, with the railroads' managers.
The brotherhoods, after discussing In
executive session the arbitration pro
posal adjourned withoat reaching a
decision. They announced another
answer would be given tomorrow
morning.
roe and Lamer Streets. It we shown
Members of the committee meeting the work. They were reduced to 10,
here today are composed of J. Ed. 000 and $15,000.
grhmldti. secretary of the assocla- K motion prevailed to aav.rus.
tlon- Chiefs II. C. McOee. Dallas. W. bids for the curb and gutter work and
E Blteker. Ft Worth. T. 8. Wright, tha graveling of Vrsullne, Washington.
Temple and R. D. Oodley. chief en- , Bryan ana we nireeta. sain, w
glneer of the fire rating board of opened on the 2Sth of this month.
Au.n I County Attorney Lamar Bolhea and
I A. J. Searcey appeared before the
Capt and Mrs. P. II. Dawson have' council asking that three additional
returned from an extended visit to 'street lights be put up and maintain
points In Fst Texas. ed In the southeastern part of the
SHREVEFOaT
II
111
here is not needed while the guard la
on the border. It wa. stated.
COTTON RECEIPTS.
Following are the cotton receipt.
In Bryan op to noon today:
Brick warehouse x.l
Union warehouse SS
Lawrence warehouse 1-J
III RATE CASE
space or iwo ana one nan ii irom . . . .
,L ,h. b.id.n, b. nm tha Claa. and Commodity Rat.t to Eaat
Total -J
Street cotton sold today for 14
cents; cotton seed" sold for $30.00.
On the same date last year cottoa
sold on the atreeta of Bryaft for 1
cents, and cottoa seed sold for $17.03.
On the same date laat year there
had beea 9 bales of cotton recetvfi
In the city.
cuter edge of the awning.
The commission consisting of W. E.
t . . a n...... V n' . . .
iraunuers. n. a. uurarr, j. . nana,
W. II. Cole. II. O. Boatwrlsht and E.
W. Crenshaw, appointed at the last
council meeting to appraise the value
of some lots at the rear of the Car-
Teiae Points Declared'
Unreasonable.
(By Aaeoclald free.)
Washlnaton. Aug. 12. The Inter
t state Commerce Commission today de
cided the celebrated Shreveportrate
NEGRO SEVERELY INJURED.
A negro who was running a wood
saw thia morning for Mr. V. W. Foo
ter happened to a very painful acci
dent when the saw seemed to fly to
pieces. Ihe l ie round disc stopptJ
mm Ins- all of a sudden and flew
I II IIS .aaT i.w.w-- -..-- ---- aa asas) "
l x QKAnnrf hold I it" . ....l.ki kab InlA th nmwmU tmC
..ti I lhaasw snJ iKal Ilni.li TlrTr. .... . . n .
llt'H V Itli'i ail efie 4
from which place the II
n lease in lavor oi sairiviium "" j sirsiani oain iuw " - -
1 W7 that class rates and commodities rates 0 received a very ugly fab on the
A T. C. and 1 . . -, r..iam T. Ii-. . u. .t.vi. r.A. and amraral
I w urea Dnr'i-'! i " .-",-- .
uij nnr i "
.Tj.L-in-.-Lr i '
"SOMETHING NEW UNDER THE SUN" ,
m IW ICE CK1 FREEZER
BUILT LIKE A THERMOS BOTTLE.
Cream freezes in thirty minutes and stays frozen for twenty-four
hours. No cranks, no working parts; simple and clean. ,
Quart size is : $250 Two quart size is ....... . $3.00
I lave us send you out one on approval.
Hp Fn
I. A G. X. transfer track was recently nr.,w.We and prejudicial
removed. mPde a r;Krt on ine value Rhrttport wi ordcrng a readjust
of these lots. Esch on was sppralsed t
separately and the total value ran Th, n,,,,,,,.. order cancels that
cl,se to $1000. ...... 'made about a year airo defining "East-
TU ssnffary con.lllon of the clty. Tjt, o w,nn whrh
was discussed at length and msnr ntM were prescrlb-
good suggestions were made. The or- h M- r4,M w, iYimtor
;1er rawed under this head was for M Mi , lh 8ut n.
jtbe city health officer. Dr. R. J. Hun-' ' new u, for a
nlintt. to notify every business house ( from ,0 t0 .owr 400
on Msln 8lreet to connect with the ...... .
city sewer and whera they refused.!
prosecution Is to follow. .
. .. .mi m anu AM.r..
I
right side of his face, and several
teeth were knocked out. Had the taw
been turning nt the time It b't him.
Mr. Poster aaya It Would have prpbably
killed .the negro. His eye wss missel
only a fraction of an Inch. He was
carried to the Fountain Sanitarium,
where the wound waa dreased.
After a season at Verdun, being
struck by lightning must figure among
the little things In life that scarcely
count Washington Poet.
AwwAMMMAWaaa
paid. A motion prevailed to adjourn.
MUSIC
Miss neaumont la In Tlryan to ar
range for her classes In plsno and
, violin. Those wishing to see her can
jcsll at Mrs. Msttle Webb's residence.
Phone 1!.
"How's business!- Tine." said :.e
real estate man. "Just sold my big
apartment house, taking In part pay
ment a farm, a factory site and a row
of smsll brkks. A $J00.0M transac
tion, and $1$ of It was In fssh."-Tbe
Lamb.
YE D01TT VAMT YOUR BAKU ACC0U.7?
But Ve Da Vint Yc-r Attentici !
Wc want to remind you that we sell every
thing for the home. .We would like to show
you our stock of Furniture and Convince
'you that HERE is the logical point at which
to make your purchases.
17. T. JAHEG, Furnlturo
nnnni ---aea-'e--
... j-.-. r miwiawm '
