A MESSAGE FOR THE HOUR
God gave this country to our father as a Protestant land, in which to erect the Temple of
Liberty. The Herculean work hai been accomplished, and the Temple stands, a monument
of national Glory, defying the earthquake and the temptest. ... Let not this glorious
temple be defiled by sacrilegious hands. Let not its sacred shrines be trampled by the foot of
despotism. Let it never be forgotten that "Eternal vigilance is the price of liberty."
Rev, J, G. White,
ThU It Numbtr 277
MACE
.Roach Defeatedr-Meniace War
IheMb
nkgS
aves Day
Story of The Independent Voters' league Ballot Urging Patriots to
Vote for Roach and The Western Watchman's Eleventh Hour Endorse
ment of Same Man-Blow Would Have Proved Fatal to the Patriot's
Cause But for The Menace
T CHAIR AN tOtTOUAL BOARD
I
KLDOM in 11 history of j
great newspaper have events
of vital moment to a nullity
nioMmrnt crowded upon
tach other as thev developed dur
ing Thurdnr, Ernlsv and Saturday,
July ?:ih, $th and 29th.
The L V. L. Indorse Roach
Thurday morning's mail brought
Hid Independent voters League bal
lot. (u opening it tho writer was
thunderstruck to find that Cornelius
Roach, tht man whom many be
lii ed Home greatly desired to see
nominated for Governor had been
stsrred by the Independent Voter'
league a the candidate which all
democratic patriots avers urged to
unite upon.
The Chairman immediatcl? con
vened the Editorial Board and
called attention to this astounding
lallut which he was inclined to be
lieve was a forgery. One ol the
t-dilore, however, stated that ho u
tonvinccd that it u genuine. The
writer then pointed out these facts:
( 1.) Roaa had bra lorn tail reared
iu a Roman Cathulte bom, llo bal
len strongly endorsed hy the Itrnnaa
atholie press wkt-a be ran for secretary
cf Mate, and any man, w urged, that
was acceptable to the Roman Catholic
hiernrehr am and ought to be -uccitaht
to ail true pafriolwi Jmeri
i.i", ia tbt present life anil death strutf
Cto between the papal autocracy aud our
lil-eral doiuoeraey.
(J.) On the ticket were ma, strong,
fine men untainted by Rnmaaiam, ani) of
nnilnulilpil loyalty to all the great prin
ciple of our liberal democracy, which
tho Human Catholic political machine in
warring anintt, Lven Mr. Frederirk
(ardnrr, the one rainliJate that the
lejrie ehararteriied aa pro-Romanist,
wan a thirty-ascoai decree Mum.
(3.) Wo had supported the League,
loyally and in good faith, but ia the
presence of thia en Jorsrraent of Roach,
there wae but one thing for os to do, and
that waa to tnifnify repudiate the ac
tum if I ha League i no anetniai man
per, at our tubteribers, sine a had in
pnod faith endorsed the Loagut, would
holc to ths Leagut at thru uould loot
to us.
It wai derided to Immediately
pivparo a btatonient and get it out
t the voters, with the shortest pos
aihlc delay so as to prevent them
being bet raved into supporting the
ir.un many believed Rome wished to
nc nominated. The time was short,
not a moment must be lost Or
dinarily the Missouri list would not
have been mailed before Tuesday
or Wednesday, August 1st. or 2d,
but the primaries were on the first,
thus if it was to reach every sub
scriber before the primaries, it must
be mailed out on Friday the 28th.
Directions were given to the fore
men of the composing , stereotyping
and press rooms to crowd forward
the work. The foreman of the
tnhiling department was directed to
prepare the MUsouri I Lit and hat'r
it ready to start out just as soon as
the presses began to pour forth the
papers.
The Hierarchy Showi Its Hand
On Friday morning; just as we
were ready to stereotype the last
page, we received a "copy of the
Western Watchman, the leading Ro
man Catholic weekly of Missouri.
It bore tho date of julv 29th. IT
I 1 SPELLED ALL OUR DOUT.TS
IV T?KfHl?n Tfl ROMP'S ATTI
TUDE TOWARD CORXELIl$'of wif:Jom 17 " uniting upon the
ROACH.
Its longest editorial was entitled
"ROACH FOR GOVERNOR," and
the (losing paragraph of this edito
rial thus voiced the Roman Cath
olie hierarchy's sentiments in re
gard to this man whom the Inde
pendent Voter's League had urged
all patriotic voters to support, who
intended to vote the democratic
ticket. It read:
There are many tbotmanda of the read
er! of the H rttem Huffman who will
vote for C'omehoa Roaeb ia the primary,
but they should all of for m. He 'is
the one man the party ran unite ia sup
port for the election, and that be will be
elected in November is very certain if
his friends rally to his support in the
primary. And our friends might better
forego oowta other prefertnee omd rots in
the Democratic prtmarf for Cornehu
Momck than to reach out ia behalf for
Bums lesser office for Roach ia the
ITuberaatorial offic would refect honor
ea the state, and upon his ova people."
(Italics arw owrav Ed.)
On reading that editorial we or
dered the Wi.rk of t ri"tv ping the
Iia-e i-niitaitiing our article on the
. V. L. and lioacli to be tcpied,
as now a tUar cut definite an
nouiirtmrnt a a J possible, and cue
that would juftify tin in urping
rery patriot to sciatrh h'oack.
Time pr-ed, it wa iiito(Ml)le to
do more than lift a paragraph and
inwrt a brief but positive state
ment oi faiti. and wont of roun-l,
aceordingly we placed this an
nounceitunt under the large
heading. "MISSOURI VOTERS
SCRATCH ROACH."
LATEST: A we go to preaa tba
Holer Watchman, Missouri's Icadin
Roman i'athnlic nciklv, ronu-a to our
offir (ianue cf Julr S!th atronglr KX
1K)KS( IXlKNKUl'M KvJAl'U.' Thm
ia lbs man enlnrel lr tho In'leponilent
Voter-' lraeue. I'ATKIOTM St HATCH
KOAUi! H HATCH III M TO A MAX!
As ax m as this was set and
placed, the work of getting out the
paper went forward with a ruih.
A lino enthufiuhin infected all our
loyal worker in the composing,
stereotyping and pres departments,
as well as in the mailing room.
Soon t he great (!om pres w as grind
ing our 10,000 copies of Tub Mrs
Aik, an hour, and before five
o'clock the whole nf tke .Vi.Muwi
tilition ua.i printed. labeled, routed,
mailed and on the postal cars.
Then, and not until then, did we
feel that Tup. Menace had done her
duty to the cause. Tub M i:acc
was in the mails and we believed
that the lovul democratic patriots'
of Missouri, knowing the truth,
mould do their duty, nor did we
misjudge, the splendid citizenship of
uiid grnml old state.
Roach went down in inglorious
defeat. THE MENACE HAD
EFFECTI VELY SI'CCEEDED
IS WAI'XIXti THE PROTES
TAXT ELECTOKATE THAT
THE MAX WHOM THE 1XDE
PEXDEXT VOTERS' LEAGFE
HAD UIMJED THE PATRIOTS
OF MISSOURI TO UNITE UP
OX, WAS THE VERY MAX
SINGLED OUT BY THE LEAD
ING ROMAN CATHOLIC OR
GAN OF THE HIERARCHY, OF
MISSOURI, FOR ALL ITS
READERS TO SUPPORT AT
THE PRIMARIES.
We did not misjudge the splendid
Americanism of the Missouri voters.
So soon as they knew that the
Western Watchman was editorially
throwing its support for Mr. Roach,
those who believe in standing by
the great fundamental principles of
out federal const it u 'Jon agaiuet
which political Romanism is wag
ing such determined warfare, were
quick to act.
Mr. Gardner a thirty-two degree
Mason, Knight Templar, Knight of
Pythias, and a Shriner seemed to be
the strongest candidate upon which
those who did not wMi to see the
Watchman's candidate nominated,
could unite. He received 34,000
more votes than his nearest com
petitor. Many voters supported Mr. Gard
ner, who would have preferred to
support some other candidate, but
the fact that there were six candi
dates to divide the Protestant vote,
made these people feci that the part
one candidate who seemed to have
the best show of defeating Mr.
Roach.
A Sleeping Populace Awakened
Thk Menace plant is a substan
tial two story brick building cover
ing a large area of land. Its brick
walled pressroom which is fifty by
fifty feet, is celled with iron.
The plant is guarded at night by
a watchman who rings in his hourly
rounds.
Since July 30th, the guard has
been doubled and suitably equipped
and under orders which we believe
will make it a sad day for any fu
ture papal agent, who assays to en
ter the building, but on the morn
ing of July 29th, there was but one
watchman when the dastardly deed
was perpetrated.
It wad a few minutes after four
o'clock in the morning when the
little city of the Ozark was slum
bering, and all seemed well, that a
heavy double ei plosion occurred
under the floor of the pressroom
followed a few minutes later by a
second much lighter explosion. In
a few moments the back part of the
Srerioiii floor was a sheet of
lames. The prompt arrival of the
tire department which is stationed
less than a half block from the
building, and the walls of brick
and ceiling of iron, alone prevented
the building from being destroyed.
This explosion and fire told the
story of tho latest attempt
To Silence Patriots' Weekly
The paper which week by week is
eagerly read bv millions of earneat,
thoughtful and patriotic American
and which Home for five years has
tirelcuhj sowjht to deitrou.
There is little to be added to the
details of the explosion as given in
last week's M knack.
Thk Mevace Publishing Com
pany promptly offered a reward of
Mmmj.im) for the capture aud con
viction of any person taking part
in the placing and firing of the el
plosives. Sheriff Chas. Cherry came
promptly fmm Mt. Vernon, on
hearing of the outrage and con
ducted the investigation. Blood
hounds were brought from Pcirce
City in the hope of finding the
criminals. The dogs followed the
scent for some blocks below TllK
M knack building, where it seemed
to be lost in the street. The opinion
of the officers is that the criminals
got into an automobile at the place
where the scent ended. No stone
is being left unturned in the effort
to run down these miscreants.
Rome'i Long Wax On The Menace
Rome fears The Menace as she
fears no other public opinion form
ing agency in the land. This is
shown by her relentless war upon
the great patriotic paper that she
knows is read by many millions of
citizens every week.
Through the American Federa
tion of Catholic Societies she sought
ROMISH RIOTERS OT WYNDMERE, H. D.
Organize a Grand Drunken Drive at Lecturer, But Back Up When Con
fronted by a Gun and the Man Behind It-Papist Contempt for Law
and Human Rights Almost Equalled by Papist Respect for an
Automatic- Koman catholic culture Again Exemplified
Wyndmere, N. D., July 8. Twenty
men who wer threatening A. 1). Bull
mnn, a lecturer and writer, stopped just
short of the stage from which ke was
speaking when they found themselves
looking iuto the huxiness end of aa au
tomatic pistol. Biillman waa delivering
an anti-Catholie lecture. When he pulled
his gun the trouble makers stopped short
and contented tbemselvea with breaking
up the furniture. Bullman today awora
out warrants for the arrest of sight of
the leaders.
I'CH is the brief press report
of the Wyndmere affair as it
appeared in the Minneapolis
(Minn.) Journal of Julv 9.
The complete story, as received from
other reliable sources, is so charac
teristic of papist methods that it
should be given in detail.
Arrangements had been made for :
a series of three lectures on Junecials of Wyndmere would give the
2fi, 27, and 28, to be given in the lecturer no protection, and leaving
Wvndmcre opera house. Soon as1
the advertising matter was distrib
uted, all the papal forces got busy
with the usual effort to prevent the
lectures.
They first enlisted the mayor, a
nominal Protestant named Hanson,
who, with one John Kuchere, a
Bohemian subject of the pope, ap
proached the owner of the opera
house with persuasion and intimi
dation calculated to make him can
cel his contract for use of the hall.
This usual procedure failed to
work in this instance because the
owner of that property happens to
be a real Protestant in every mean
ing of the term. This gentleman,
Mr. Chas. G. Kleniing, refused to
be wheedled or frightened into clos
ing his hall against Mr. Bullman,
and they vent awsy Buttering the
to induce Foatmaster General
Hitchcock to bar. 'I he Mesacr. biA
he refused to trample upon the con
stitution of the United States, even
at the bidding of the hierarchy.
Iatcr United States Senator.
0Gorman. one f the mot active
and loyal subjects cf the papal ov-
t nif.Ti in American u;,iu; uie ma le
a determined but im (Textual
at -
tempi to induce President Wilm.n i tempt . foment dimrder in our i pushing glories of liU ml di-im.-and
PorUnakter (e-n ral Hurlcon to ! ei-tcr republic and embroil the ra v.
do what lotmat-r (tencral Ilitch -
lock had so positively and poiutcd -
ly refuod to do.
Failing to suppress Tut: Mev
ace by attempting to substitute Old
World" despotic burauirai v for the
orderly court proivdure of democ
racy, political Rome, through bcr
loyal subject secured the introdui
tion of bills into congress in defi
ance? of our constitutional guarantee
of freedom of discuwion, bills that
would specifically abridge freedom
of religious diecussion. Six h a bill
is today pending in congress, and
was introduced by Congressman
Gallivan, one of the pope's most
faithful subjects hi America, nor is
this all. She hat through her loyal
handymen introduced bills, that if
psed wouhl give Ku-ian bureau
cratic power to postmaster generals
by which they could autocratically
bar papers from he mails and tin's
would t"b the free press of the dem
ocratic: protection of trial by jury,
and in its place substitute the
monarchial bureaucratic SM-tem.
Through the activity of the Knights
of C-olunibus and other "prop" of
the hierarchy she hounded the gov
ernment into a proMi ution of Tut:
Menacv. and here in the federal
courts the great Utile paper uas
triumphantly vindicated.
Moreover the power and preetipe
of The Menace has steadily grown
since its vindication, and especially
since the Free Press Defense league
became tho owners of the paper on
May 1st.
Some, Resolutions, and Menace
The vigorous, aggressive and fun
damental campaign which has leen
inaugurated since the Free Tress
Defense League assumed control of
The Mkkack, lias further aroused
tho alarm of the hierarchy. The
uncovering of th Mexican plot and
the demand for an investigation of
usual threats of what they would
do if Hr. Bullman were allowed to
sHalc
Just before the beginning of the
first lecture, on June 6. Mayor
Hanson called upon Mt. Dullnian
and ordered him to refrain from lec
turing in Wyndiiierc, because the
sentiment of tho Roman Catholic
population was against it. The
mayor was reminded that American
law is superior to Roman Catholic
sentiment; and informed that the
lecture would be delivered under
that constitutional protection which
guarantees the right of free speech.
It is said that the mayor there
upon used language unbecoming
his exalted office and Protestant
profession, declaring that the offi-
him to care for Jumsclf in the event
that the subject of the poiie at
tempted to empy the monarchial
papal methods instead of remaining
loyal to the American constitution.
Mr. Bullman informed the mayor
that he was amply able to take care
of himself without a regiment of the
National Guard or even the police
force of Wyndmere; but, that he
would hold the city of Wyndmere
and its officials crporately and per
sonally responsible for any damage
that might reank from permitting
Roman Catholic criminals to run at
large and without the restraint re
quired by enforcement of the law.
The discovo. by the Roman
Catholics, and tlyeir allies that Mr.
Bullman was prepared for eventu
alities had such a sobering effect
that the first ad second. lectures
Bold Attempt to Wreck Pressroom by Heavy Double Explosion is Last
Event in Series of Attacks to Silence The Menace The Romish Desire
to Substitute Force and Compulsion for Reason and Persuasion
Portrayed in Recent Events
the
activities of the hierarchy and
, its
prop in relation to the at-
I I nuM Mate government with
j Mexico, and moet of all, the rceut
introdui tum into conL'rex of our
Resolution 'II. J. RF.S. Vt?t) afl
ing for a full, free and impartial in
vestigation of tho charges whiih
The Mrvm: and the Free Pn-s
Defence Lrugti make against the
hierarchy, or the Roman Catholic
political machine, has brought frch
txmsternation into tho councils ofjAi of the press on the one hand,
"'- nirt ii'nir
lions strike at the very heart of the
contentions of fundamental demo
crats who oniio' the monanhial ia
pal system, anthe attempt of its
machine to su-titute that system
for our liberal democracy.
War Bstween Eeason and Tore 1
Kvery former attempt to silen.-e William lllack. when at Marshall. by employing the bom'tt and law
or destroy The Mkvace has failed, j Texas, he refused at the bidding of (less dclia'nce of rnvctal laws comes
hven tho nution-wide effort of pa-(Knights of Columbus, to forego an! the attempt to blow up the presses
pal government employees iu the j American freeman's constitutional of Titr. Menace. This last appeal
stal semir to separate our read-i right to deliver his message to I to fin e. Rome's favorite argument,
ers from their paper by shameful, j those who wi-hed to hear him; the i like all her former attempts to si
lawless arts, while undoubtedly in-1 hand that felled Rev. Jeremiah J.Iciho The Mi.nack. has failetl.
jiinng Thk Menace, also injured Crowley at Oelweiu. loan, when land we reieat what we said last
joni, ii siiouiu hip iiiiium lanrr :
of keeping pilitical offices out of.
the hands of men io owe their
firl all'ijiame to a foreign sorer
ciynty, and nutr comes the dynamit
ing of our press room, NO'l'ilING
IS SO CHAR ACTFRISTIC OF
ROMK AS lir.R ATTEMPT TO
PREVENT THE FILL AX..
FREE USE OF BROAD. FI'Mj
ORRED INVESTIGATION. .,n
Irss it i her desire to CSE FORCE
OR COMPULSION IN THE
PLACE OF REASON AND PEL'-
SI A S ON. Here is one of the
hi idgcic chasms U'taceti lilieml
democracy and the monarchial pa
pi.cy. DeuiiHTacy stands for reason,
persuasion, and liberty of press,
smii!i aud association. She be
lieves in full-orbed investigation, iu
turning on the light. Rome exer
cises force, compulsion and een-
passed without serious demoi.slra
lion or oulhrcuk; but on the after
noon, preceding the evening of the
nil-1
third lecture, the priest of a neigh-' ? u ' ""l '7" nsed the vilest language comeivnhle
i iii.i , that wliat he said was more than a' . ciii i i . . .
:mi rf?u..?11rd,t,hr,.w,;,,:f!Muff, Mr. inma,, i ZzV". : vy-- '
these lectures against the papacy
. ....
must stop; and that, if the owner
of the hall would not stop them,
he, the local representative of the
!apal sovereign, would rally his
lenchmeu and stop them by force.
The un-American priest was giv
en the same instructions concerning
the federal constitution as wa&
earlier given to the local mayor;
end was told that it would be in
advisable for Rome's lawless chil
dren to interfere with him in the
exercise of his rights as a free
American citizen. Inasmuch as a
heavy storm interfered to some ex
tent with the final lecture, it was
decided to repeat it on Saturday
eveui lg July 1 ; and suitable ad
vertising to that effect was distrib
uted. On the afternoon of July 1 ru
mors of war became current in
Wyndmere to the effect that the
priest from Mantador, a neighbor
ing village, was to head a mob of
his )Mrisliioners to break up the
prosjHttive meeting. However, the
reports so freely circulated failed of
terrorizing effect, and the hall was
comfortably filled. The lecture
proceeded to the satisfaction of
speaker and audience, when, at
about 9::i0, a commotion arose at
the door and about twenty faithful
Koman Catholics led by the propri
etor of a local hotel, marched in
and to the front of the hail, seat-
rorhip. She hates and opNM, allau-e he refuel ti forego a, free-
tnoe thms whnh art Hie i hutni-
The Index and the Inquisition
Nothing Utter harateries the
historic aud utn hanging spirit of
Rome tlian the Index and the In-
tpiifitiou. They are her dearest HAND OF ROMC. expressing not
children, and the nnlcrti expres-'idy her hatred of the fundamental
siou of thin doiuinaiit pasion W;pnniplc of frct-dom nf speech,
found in America today in lite .'o- i pre and ansembly, but her inher
nian Catholic boucntt and t ciinor- ' cut deire to emidov force instead
ui iu tnc uuiueiviua e vuiuiiioiii 01 'i ixuvriii ( lanuoi ih- invoaeu.
mobocralH, criminal latilessne...The spirit of the Inquisition and
I murderous a.ault.' tnurtlcr and' the Index animate the t-aixiry. u
other eihibition of fori, instead
of reason, giving further cvidrtue ot
the truth of the favorite Roman
Catholic boast that "Home ueier
changes"
t 1 he hand that
murdered Rev.
4 i . I -II
mis iirienucr ot Hie luilille n IiikiIs
and critic of panxliial mhools lull
delivered his message lufuro an en
thusiastic audience; the hand that
dragged the Rev. Otis Spurgenn
from his room in a hotel at 1H li
ver. Colo., drove him in an auto-1
ir.vf! into the toiintrv. striniK-tl
a. , ii bltcd him and then beat him
almost to death; the hand that
created the riot in Chicago, la.-t
Manli, breaking up the Guardian-;
of Lilierty meeting in order to pre
vent Dr." Slatterv from ad.lres'in-!
till nulilic on the iiriiieiiiles of our
free government: the hand that
was represented in t1(. mon-ter
tm.h of lo.iMMi Knights of Co
lunihiis. and other "propi of the
hierarchy" at Haverhill. Ma"., last
April: the hand that on June "M.
brutally beat and mangled Elmer
L. Rogers, of San ford. Fla.. Im-
ing themselves not far from the
platform.
The lecture was su.-cii'lcd long
; enough for the Roman Catholic
I delegation to ltm!iic seated and
order restored, when the speaker
: incidentally remarked that anv IJo-
(tnan Catholic in the hall ior a
! nropcr purpose wa welcome ; but
that if anyone was there in further-
; ance of retwrts to start something.
1 1. i i .1. .. n i. .i-.i
I ur nuiiKi uo well HI tnniK IH'Iier Ol
it. To convince the loal discinlcs
t I 1,1.. ,
1,. 1 . 1 , 1 ,
v. IM...F nun iiiuiviei mill 1'iei'Uicu-
Inifllii ttmtril in a itiiiiw ivmi-Atnont
J- " - -' VVIIUIIIVUt
to himself and visible to the new
comers. Their leader was immediately on
his feet demanding to lie heard. It
took the persuasive eloquence of
both speaker and gun to make him
subside, and await the promised op
portunity to talk later. But in a
few moments he was again up de
manding to lie heard then and there.
When this was again refused, he
started toward the rear of the hall,
calling all Catholics in the room to
follow him, which was a ruse to di
vert attention to hiin and enable
others to reach the platform.
The flanking force thereupon. no;D,'nff gven after the niavor had
doubt following previous instruc'
tion. rushed up to the platform
yelling and howling, prepared to
make a final rush and overpower
the speaker by the weight of num
bers. They had evidently been in
spired with suitable liquids as well
as fanaticism. But at this moment
Mr. Bullmen pushed the heavy pis
tol into their flaming faces with the
declaration that whoever first
stepped upon that platform would
never leave it alive.
Bullman assured them that lie
had no desire to hurt any of them,
but that he would use all the nitons
necessary to keep them from hurt
ing him. The effect was all tha't
could be desired; for their retreat
from the muzzle of that papist paci-
nuu s right aii'l ! v the 1 it. 1 11 in
of the Knights .f Columbus; thu
baud that Mrin I down and hriiui
ly beat the lev. Milbm Worth
IVlJwrbe. on the night nf .Inly :H,
almost under the shadow of Cornell
I iuur-itv WAS IN FACH AND
KVF.IJY I X ST A N C K T 11 K
ft reaon, where legal eompulMon
iim the tpiril uf lilierl'j, and u
tnnn rii'il inspire and vitalize lib
eral democracy.
After Rome's five years of war to
silence TllE Minaik bv anneals to
bureaucracy, legislation! the courts.
!l . . ..
week, l!od reigu and The Menace
lives. Furthermore, the campaign
to compel cngres to investigate
the papal system or drag political
Romanism into the light will now
be prosecuted with unequalled vigor.
All the daik crimes that have
marked this campaign to rntke
America dominautly Roman Catb
olie serve to show the need ot just
such an investigation.
There is no place in America tor
" H'co--c!ciasti el organization
whoe handvmen find it necesssrvi
to appeal to force nud lawlessness
instead of to law and the orderly
prtKCsses of eiilits toveriinieiii.
The campaign has jut begun and
the battle will lM waged ith in
creasing vigor in the high name of
justice, liberty and advancing civil
nation. fier was even
graceful.
more speedy than
In an effort t culm the frenzied
mob at this turn, the R. v. ( ha-. V .
Zcch. presiding elder of the Evan
gelical Association. mIh. happened
to lie in Wyndmere aud in attciid
atice. started the national iinthem.
"My Country Ti of Tine:" but
only to draw the wrath of the
Itohcmian. John Kudu-re. upon
himself.
nioilin
throughout this frantic
demon-
.... ;.. ..f . 1. .. i .1 ,
" 01 I'lii-isi iimren, me 11100
-Shoot him !" "Kill him !M "Butcher
him!" But they had to content
themselves with insults heniicd upon
the Protestants present, and dam
age to the unresisting furniture,
lest fhe speaker's artillery get into
action.
During the melee the police did
j as promised by their mayor, and
mane no euorr vvnatever to einier
arreat or to quiet the rioters. ItT
said that the Wyndmere police, con
sisting of one man strong, had been
instructed to avoid the hall that
night; and not to come near it no
matter what might happen. And
no one need doubt such instruction
taken Ins position in behalf of
priests and papists, and after hl
entering the hall at the height of
the riot to lend hi? official presence
to sanction of the mob without the
least effort to quiet them or stop
their abuse of the people present.
Suitable steps have been taken for
the prosecution of the uioh leaders
to the end that they may learn by
experience due respect for the laws
of the country they infest. We are
assured that the lesson is not lost
on the decent people of Wyndmere
and vicinity who now have a livelier
appreciation for the danger of such
an influence as was present that
night in the persons of rum-eoaked
(Continued oa Pag S, Columa 8)
"A
