BARRE DAILY TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 127.
RARRK. VERMONT, SATURDAY, AUGUST 12, 191G.
riUCE, ONE CENT.
HE
STRUGGLING
TO BREAK OUT
OFSTEELCHAIN
Germans Deliver Hard At
tacks Against Both the
British and the French on
;. the Somme Front, but
Were Beaten Back, Ac
cording to London and
Paris Claims
CENTRAL POWERS
IN MORE TROUBLE
SOUTH OF RIVER LOST
A LARGE NUMBER
French Curtain of Fire Pre
vented the Germans from
Debouching at La Maison
nette Italians and Rus
sians Continue Their Vic
torious Advances
Tan's, Aug. 12. A vigorous attack
ttorth of Hem wood on the Somme front
Vas undertaken last night by the Ger
mans. The war office statement says
the assault was checked. The Germans
sustained appreciable losses in their attack.
South of the Somme, after a violent
bombardment!, the Germans attacked La
Maisonnette, but the French curtain o
lire prevented the assaulting waves of
infantry from debouching. During th
night the French organized their new po
mtions north ot the river. Keconnoiter
jng parties entered the wood east of Hem
station, where a large number of bodie
cf Germans were found.
On the Verdun front the German at
tacks in the vicinity of Fleury were re
pulsed.
London, Aug. 12. A strong infantr;
attack was delivered last night by th
Germans on the Somme front north o
Pozieres. According to the war office on
nouneement to-day, this attack was re
pulsed with heavy losses to the Germans
GERMANS CONDUCT
SEARCH OF VESSELS
ACCORDING TO LAW
Piw Submarine Held Up Six Ships on
Thursday and Sunk Half of Them
After Ordering the Crew Off.
Havre, Aug. 12. Six ships were held
fup at once by a German submarine
.Thursday. The commander of the sub
marine ordered the crew of the , French
steamer Marie to get out into boats and
then sank the vessel with bombs in
'view of the crews of the other five ships
'The Norwegian steamers Oredo and Soro
were next sent to the bottom. The othei
three ships were allowed to continue
'their voyage after being searched. The
'crews of the three ships sunk were
(picked up by a Danish steamer.
fTWO VILLAGES ARE
TAKEN BY RUSSIANS
'"Wlo Has Crossed the River Koropice in
Galicia, According to Petrograd
I' Official Announcement.
Petrograd, Aug. 12. Russian troops in
jGallda have crossed the river Koropice
'and captured two villages, it was an
nounced by the war othee.
STANISLAU CAPTURED
Lemberg's Fall to the Russians Now
Thought to Be Certain.
Petrograd, Aug. 12. The Russians cap
tured Stanislau, a victory which indicates
that they are fast approaching Lemberg.
The fall of Stanislau is taken to mean
that the fall of Lemberg will soon be re
ported. The position of the Austrians in Lem
berg is believed to be greatly weakened
by recent defeats.
Stanislau's capture by the Russians
was officially announced by the war office
yesterday afternoon. The announcement!
stated that the Kussians captured Stanis
lau on Thursday.
The captured town lies on the Bystrzy
ea river and on the railway that runs all
the way across from Galicia from Buko
wina in the south to Lemberg in the
north, about 30 miles north of Kolomea
and fi6 miles south of Lemberg. The main
defenses of the city had been under heavy
bombardment by the Russians and de
spite strong Teutonic resistance the Rus
sians swept on and took the town.
Their Enemies Are Closing in on All Sides
and the Russians in Particular Are
Hurling Great Forces Against
Them.
London, Aug. 12.-Russian, Italian snd
French armies continue successfully their
respective offenses, and, according to the
latest ollicial communications, have taken
more territory from the forces pf the cen
tral powers in France, Galicia and Aus
tria. Stanislau, 87 miles southeast of Lem
berg, the capitul of Galicia and an impor
tant railway junction, has been occupied
by Russian troops under Gen. Letchitzky.
In addition the Russians have progressed
on the line of the Sereth river, as well as
along the Zlota. Linn, taking important
positions south ot Hrody and capturing
the railway town of Monasterr.yska and
several villages.
The taking of Stanislau, which Vienna
says was evacuated without lighting,
opens another gateway through which the
Russians may advance toward Lemberg.
Already, Petrograd eays, the Austro-Ger-mans
are being pursued toward llalich, a
railway junction north of Stanislau on
the Dniester river. Petrograd reports the
capture of 5,00(1 more A astro-Germans.
The Italian army under the duke of
Aosta, which took Goritia, is losing no
time in its advance as a result of the cap
ture of the gateway to Trieste. South of
Gorit.ia, along the lower lsonzo, the Ital
ians have occupied ( lie whole of the Do
berda plateau, the scene of much desper
ate fighting, in addition to driving the
Austrians east of the Vallone line and
capturing several towns in the direction
of Trieste.
East of Goritzia the Italians have not
met with as much success as in the south.
Rome officially reports the Austrians to
be holding out in trenches on the line of
Monte San Gabriele and Monte San Mar-to.
While the British forces have, been
comparatively inactive north of the
Somme in northern France, the French
have followed up their bombardment of
the German line with the capture of ad
ditional German trenches near Maurepas
and a fortified quarry north of the Hem
wood. The French also have established
a new line on the ridge south of Maure-
HOPE OF PEACE
RESTS ON MEN
Whether 400,000 Railroad
Employes Will Accept
Arbitration
PROPOSITION TO BE
MADE CLEAR TO-DAY
HUGHES IS HUSTLING
It Is Proposed to Increase
Membership of Arbi
tration Board
New York, Aug. 12. The settlement of
the differences between the managers of
the railroads ami their 400,000 employes
is undendood to depend upon whether the
representatives of the four brotherhoods
will consent to the new form of arbitra
tion. The brotherhood men who assembled
this morning for another conference with
the federal mediation board expected the
mediators to make a proposition involv
ing this plan. The method suggested is
to increase the membership of the board
of arbitration defined by the Newlands
act.
Leaders of the brotherhoods Imve con
sistently declared they would not consid
er arbitration under the Newlandg act, as
it now stands. The railroads have reject
ed the men's demands and have stood out
firmly for arbitration. The men have
served notice that rather than arbitrate
they will strike. With both sides taking
such an unbending attitude there is no
solution to the problem except the new
arbitration plan, according to a respon
sible authority.
The principal feature of the new plan
is said to be the formation of a board of
arbitration that will give each of the four
brotherhoods a representative on the
Among Tripe Planned Is Trip 2,000 Feet
Down in Copper Mine,
Helena, Mont., Aug. 12. Two speeches,
one here and the other at Butte, and a
trip 12,1X10 feet below the surface of the
earth into the workings of a big copper
mine are on to-day's program of Charles
K. Hughes.
Billings, Mont., Aug. 12. Charles E.
Hughes, addressing a Chautauqua audi
ence in a big tent on the village square
here last night, prefaced his advocacy of
protective tarltr with the declaration
that if he should be elected president,
nothing would be "pulled off" for private
benefit at the public expense if he could
help it. Mr. Hughes also adopted a Dem
ocratic shgan of the 1912 campaign
pitiless publicity.
"I desire in all thst we do In this cam
paign," Mr. Hughes said, "to have what
was called a little while ago, four years
ago, 'pitiless publicity.' I want pitiless
publicity with respect to the pork barrel
and with respect to the sectionalism and
extravagance and wastefulness of this ad
ministration. "I want pitiless publicity with respect
to the Incompetence of appointees of this
administration. Let us see that we have
America first in the hearts of every
American, of whatever race or creed, and
also America equal to her tasks Amer
ica edit ient."
Mr. Hughes also assailed the adminis
tration for changing its tariff views since
1912 and repeated his declaration in favor
of a protective tariff whose enactment
and enforcement should be left to the Re
publican party.
"I desire to see s proper attitude to
ward business in this country." he con
tinued. "I have done mv share in at
tempting to correct abuses snd what I
have just, said must be supplemented by
CROWDED OFF '
NARROW ROAD
P. P. Fletcher of Williams
town Had Bones Brok
en and Was Bruised
WOMAN COMPANION
WAS NOT INJURED
Their Team Met Massachu
, sett Touring Car on
Brockway Hill
should purchase your tickets at once. If lAnnrin lISM
Ticket for the supp.r aro 50 cents ! I HI IrtXr" X IXIl K
and run be purchase., of 13. W. Hooker, I lUliUL. O I VlVjlX
KILLED YOUTH
G. It. Yarnum, K. C. t.'lvnn or H. A
Phelps. Purchasers of supper ticket will
tie given lrc transportation by automo
bile to and from South Royalton, which
is one of tho mot beautiful tccnie trips
in eriiiont.
Willianistown, Aug. 12 Perley P.
Fletcher, a young farmer who lives on
the Albeit Noiris farm in fie southwest
part of Willismstown, had three ribs
broi: n and was br iiscd and scratched
when he, with his team, went over the
bank in the middle of the Brockway hill,
between mill village ami Uarre. yester
day afternom. Mr. Fletcher had ben in
Barrs in a single team wt'.b his niece,
Miss Catherine Mathcson, anl was te
turuing to his hmr I when he met l
REVOLVER DUEL
ON A BOSTON STREET
rvia liava ttiL-m. rwn sm.ll wrwirw
h r ir,r, arnnA I board, while the arbitrators of the rail
On the Balkan front, Anglo-French ! road9 V? " increased to an equal num
forces have attacked the Bulgarians andj?5"' w'th ,four n"tr) arbitrators, mak
occupied the Doiran railway station, 40 ,m? a tot' membership of 12.
miles northwest of Saloniki, according to
unofficial advices.
Petrograd admits the evacuation of
Hi ma dan, Persia, under the pressure of
Turkish attacks.
It is reported that in their perplexity
over the situations on the Italian and
Galieian fronts, the Austrians again have
brought troops from Oalicia to the Isonzo
front in a desperate effort to save the sit
uation there. Turkish troops having been
sent to the Galieian front to replace the
Austrians.
Nothing sensational is happening on
the western front, where the entente al
lies maintain a Bteadv pressure. Al
though the British forces have shown lit
tle activity north of the Somme. the
French report the capture of additional
German trenches near Maurepas and a
fortified quarry north of the Hem wood.
Despite the small gams on the western
front, the entente allies have had another
week of striking successes with the great
Italian and Russian victories and the re
pulse of the Turkish attack in Egypt.
the remark that, if I am elected, there i big Massachusetts ear ,., narnw place
will be nothing pulled off for private. in the road and "was crowded off the
benefit at the public expense if I know bank vl), , t, f
it and can prevent it. . ' '
"I am not in this campaign, snd I have , U,h,"n thn r'K ""PP'-d Jy np""
not left the career of mv choice. t nlavl'J aown lo ule rm"r- 1 np W8Kon WRS
BIG DELEGATION
GOING TO CLEVELAND
Granite Men and Their tidies Will
leave Late To-day to Attend Annual
Convention of National Re'.iil
Monument Dealers.
On to Cleve.at.d is the wa.uIiTiorJ of
some fifty people from the Bane trail
ite Lelt, who Hiive left ur rru leaving
hue this afternoon to atim the annual
convention of the National KeViil Mon
ument Dealer ' rssociatiun, winch opens
Monday. The list includes manufactur
ers and quarries as well as other who
aro not so directly concerned with thu
granite industry. A few of the former
left earlier in the week, in oi-Jt. to al
low ample tini for business stops on
tho way. Others are uluudy on the
grounds, supervising the diip'tsition of
Barre granite exhibits that ara to have
a place in the convention hall. Tun flat
cars were required to transport Bane's
showing of real quality in the exhibi
tion floor" at Cleveland.
Two specially chartered Pullman cars
will be attached to the 6:55 train over
the Central Vermont railway. Before the
travelers are permitted to make their
get away, the Barre Board of Trade will
given additional evidence of its
Howard Bouchard, 12, Was
Visiting in Barre with
His Mother
SKULL CRUSHED
BY TF BLOW
Accident Happ j-M at Farm
on Bee' Hill
T iiy ,
have
Police Wounded and Captured One
Trio of Men Caught Breaking
Into a House.
Boston, Aug. 12. A running revolver
battle between a squad of police and
three men who had been discovered
climbing into a window of a South Knd
lodging house, resulted in the wounding
of one of the men, John McCarthy, to
day. The other men escaped.
STOLEN WIRE RECOVERED.
CREW OF 46 MEN
LANDED IN FRANCE
Were on the Japanese Steamer Which
Wag Sunk by Submarine Which
Showed No Flag.
Marseilles, Aug. 12. The patrol boat
B-10 landed here last night a crew of
45 men of the Japanese steamer Temmei
Mara, which was sunk in the Mediter
ranean by a submarine which showed no
flag. Members of the crew stated that
the vessel was shelled without warning
and that the submarine fired on the
boats in which they took refuge. The
Maru arrived at Vladivostok May 10
from New York.
AMBASSADOR PAGE HERE.
Comes from Great Britain for Several
Weeks' Stay.
New York, Aug. 12. Walter Hines
Page, United States ambassador to Great
Britain, accompanied by Mrs. Page, ar
rived here last night from Liverpool on
board the American line steamship Phil
adelphia. They will remain in this coun
try several weeks.
Other passengers were Thomas Hughes
clly, president of the Irish relief fund;
Joseph Smith, his secretary, and Mrs.
Kelly, wbo went to England on the Phil-
dclphia, but were not permitted to land
there by the British authorities. Mr.
Kelly took over approximately $50,000
contributed in this country for the relief
of sufferers from the recent Irish upris
ing. This fund was sent on to Ireland.
Fort Ethan Allen Soldier Arrested for
the Theft.
Burlington, Aug. 12. Deputy United
States Marshal Reeves seized yesterday
morning at the premises of Harris Levin,
at 41) First street 1,500 pounds of No. 4
insulated copper electric wire, which had
been stolen the previous day from the
government reservation at Fort Ethan
Allen by a sergeant named Cody and his
helper, who are in the quartermaster's
corps. The sergeant was arrested yes
terday and is now in the guardhouse at
the post, but the helper escaped. VYheth
er or not Levin must answer to the
charge of receiving stolen goods will be
decided to-day, when United States Di
strict Attorney Vernon A. Hullard ar
rives from Eden. Levin states that he
paid the men $140 for the wire, which is
easily worth twv'e that amount of mon
ey. Lieutenant F. S. Snyder of the 2d
cavalry handled the matter for the mili
tary authorities.
politics for anvbodv. I am here simplv
because I believe 1 have been summoned
to serve the American peopleat least to
give them a chance to cIiookb for nie such
service a they desire. (
"If I am chosen 1 propose to devote
whatever ability I possess to having
things done right, in this country for tho
interests of the people, believing that my
party will achieve honor and win the
success it deserves and the only success it
deserves, If it is a party of service; and I
shall not prostitute the offices of the
United States for partisan rewards of in
competent persons?
"1 have had something to do with cut
ting out abuses, but I believe that in thi
country we must be strong enough and
abln enough to prevent abuses, to prevent
unjust discrimination, to prevent monop
olistic practices, fearlessly to prevent
any action inimical to the public interest,
while at the sne time we encourag
honest American enterprise, seek an ex
pansion of our trade, endeavor to have
our foreign commerce extended and in
everv wav make the American name
commercially a name of the first, rank
throughout the world.
'And I desire with respet to American
rights that; no one need hang his head in
shame. We are not. a wnrlike people.
We do not want anything from anybody
that we are not entitled to. But when
we say a thing the world should know
that we mean it and that we are able to
enforce it."
The nominee repeated previous attacks
on the course of the administration to
ward Mexico, also his declaration that
the administration had brought this coun
try into serious differences with Mexico.
"No one could very easily, without the
utmost folly, have brought us into war,"
Mr. Hughes said, "but we have been
brought far closer to it than 'we should
have been by the weakness and vacilla
tion that this administration has shown."
Mr. Hughes called attention to the fact
that Montana is the first northwestern
state to be visited on this trip where
women have the vote, and he reiterated
the declaration that he wished the issue
speedily settled by amendment to the
federal constitution granting women suf
frage. J he nominee also emphasized
what he termed the need for industrial
and commercial co-operation and prepar
edness
WORK IS APPROVED.
FOOD SHORTAGE
CAUSING RIOTS
And New Highway in Walden Is Ordered
Opened to Public.
St. Johnsbury, Aug. 12. The public
service commission has put its stamp of
approval upon the recently constructed
underpass and connecting section of high
way in the town of Walden upon the
line of the St.. Johnsbury & Lake Cham-
plain railroad, and they will be opened
for public traffic at once. So much of
the public highway as lies within the
railroad's right of way will be discontin
ued and abandoned as such.
badly damaged, but tms young lady was
not hurt and the hor-e seemed to have
escaped injury. Mr. Fletcher was taken
to Dr. Cross' office and lui b- a comfort
able as possible, after whii'i he iitcj
on driving home after getting ano'lier
wagon.
The traffic on this piece of road is un
usually heavy just now as a culvert
at the foot of the Viss.ir 1iill is closed
up for repairs, and all autos and teams
have to take the mill road, which is so
narrow that it is alinnt inviONsibbt for
teams to pass each other. The number
of the Massachusetts crtr was taken rnd j
it is quite possible that there will be
further developments.
WELL PLEASED WITH TRIP.
FULL TICKET DECIDED ON
INCREASE INCOME TAX.
Democrats in Senate Plan to Make Revenue.
CHURCH DESTROYED.
Austrian
Aeroplane Raid on
Proved Destructive.
Venice
Rome. Aug. 12. The Church of Santa
Maria Formosa was destroyed in an Aus
trian aeroplane raid on Venice. Works
of art had been removed.
HELD A CONFERENCE.
Emperor Francis Joseph and the German
Chancellor Closeted.
Amsterdam, Aug. 12. A Vienna dis
patch, says that Emperor Francis Joseph
has received the German chancellor in an
audience. Later he was closeted with
the German foreign minister.
Mexico City is in State Bordering on
Anarchy Rioters Seize the Elec
tric Lighting Plant
El Paso, Aug. 12. Conditions in Mexi
co City are bordering on ansrchy be
cause of a food shortage, according to ar
rivals from the capital. Refugees said
rioters had seized the electric lighting
plant and the town has been without
lights and street cars for a week.
Washington, D. G, Aug. 12 The Dem
ocratic Senate caucus last night ap
proved the revenue bill which would
increase the surtax on incomes in excess
of $2,000,000 from 10 per cent to 13 per
cent. Withdrawal by the committee of
Ian amendment to reduce the income ex
jrmptions to $300 and $2000, respective
ly, for married and single persons pre
rented a threatened caucus revolt on
j that issue, but there was a persistent
ngnt ry several senators to increase fur
ther surtaxes on large incomes. ,
Vermont Democrats Are to Enter Elec
tion for Every Office.
Burlington, Aug. 12. The Democratic
state committee at a largely attended
meeting last night in the New Sherwood
hotel decided to put a full ticket in the
eld at the September primaries. The
arious counties also will have their own
ickets. Petitions for the offices to be
filled will be circulated at once. Each of
the committee has necessary blanks.
James E. Kennedy was chairman of the
meeting and J. F. Allard clerk, in the ab
sence of James Byrnes of Bellows Falls.
Petitions for the various officers must
be tilled out and filed by Aug. 21.
The ticket reported to have been agreed
on last night is as follows:
Governor Dr. William B. Mayo of
Northiield.
Lieutenant governor Henry C. Brislin
of Rutland.
Barre People Got Acquainted with Their
Neighbors in Berlin.
The invasion of Berlin, not by the en
tente allies but by the Barre Board o
Trade, occurred last evening; and th
result was a mutual surrender of each to
the hospitality of the other. The oeca
sion was the thiid trip in the better ac
quaintance tours conducted by the local
Board of Trade, and nearly one hundred
people took advantage of the opportunity
to get acquainted with the people ot th
neitrhborinc town on the hill. The run
was considerably shorter than the tw
previous trips to Marshfield and Chelsea
and consequently the start was later
than usual, the cars not getting away
until after 7 o'clock. The route chosen
was bv way of River street in Mont
pelier, all the hill-climbing being confined
to a long pull just after leaving Mont
pelier.
On arrival in Berlin Corner, the Barre
people found the people waiting to re
ceive them and the members of Mirror
Lake grange in particular prepared to
entertain them. The cars were parked
in the vicinity of the Methodist church
in which structure the stereoptieon had
been set up for the presentation of views
of Barre. H. G. Woodruff varied the
usual program by giving a very interest
ing and illuminating talk on Barre and
its chief industry as the pictures were
thrown on the screen by Dr. W. J. Mann,
Mr. oodnm cited fact after tact con
cerning the progress of Barre; and it is
safe to say that Berlin people present
were not alone in receiving information
about the Granite City.
After the "Oood-night" was shown on
the screen, the crow d went, to the hall to
the music of the bagpipes, the musician
having been taken along bv the tourists
A very appetizing luncheon was served,
buffet style, by the members of the
grange; and if a vote of the Barre people
had been taken it would have shown
unanimous decision that Berlin women
are srood cooks. At the close of the
luncheon, the Barre people said their
adieus and motored home by way of the
Benjamin fall route, well pleased with
their visit.
FOURTH TOUR PLANNED
complete rejuvenation by according the
granite, party a big send-off at the sta
tion. There are to be music, little
speeches and much cheering, it is hoped.
Tho committee of arrangements, repre
senting the two associations, assembled
to-day and attacbed to each car two Ion;r
streamers, well calculated to establish
the identity of the Barre people where
ever they may journey on the road to
Cleveland.
A committee consisting of J. C. Booth,
J. B. Cars well. E. M. Tobin, Alex. Dun
can, W. B. Maelvenne and H. P. Hir.-
inan will have charge of arrangements
en route and . j. (irant ot tioston, a
traveling passenger aent for the Grand
Trunk line-, will accompany the part).
Unless there is a hitch in present plans,
the tourists will arrive in Montreal, I'.
Q.. to-night at 10 o'clock, in Toronto,
Ont., to-morrow morning at 7:10, when a
brief stop will give them an opportunity
to glance at least twice at the city; u
stop of 2S minutes on the suspension
bridge at Niagara Falls is promised and
at Buffalo, auto 'buses will be provided
for a two hours sightseeing tour. The
objective point will be reached Sunday
afternoon at 4:3o o clock.
En route home, the party leaves Cleve
land Aug. 19, arriving in Barre early in
the morning of Aug. 21. Most members
of the delegation will tarry for nearly
a day in band around the Thousand Is
lands and the Lachine rapids.
The personnel of the party is made
up as tollows: Alex. Young of loung
Bros., W. D. MacDonald of the World
Granite Co.. Alex. Duncan of the North
Barre GYanite Co., H. J. M. Jones of
Jones Bros., Stephen Rizzi of Rizzi
Bros., Sc. H. P. Hinman of the Manu
facturers' association, John C. Booth of
the Martinson Estate Co., Charles W.
McMillan of McMillan & Son, E. M.
Tobin of Trow & Holden, Ben Gasperalio
of Gasparello Bros., Donald Smith of the
E. L. Smith Co., A. M. Cella of the Van-
etti Granite Co., Armando Comolli of
Coinolli &. Sons, B. Luechine of the North
Barre Granite Co., Alex Milne, Joseph
Caleigni of Novelli & Calcagni, Allen W.
Rid of the Standard Granite Co., Gur
Oltolini of . the Apollo Granite Co., Wil-
lam Milne, James B. Carswell of the
Carswell-Wetmore Co., P.-'Hossi of Rossi
& Casellini, Henry C. Whitaker of the
Monumental News, Chicago, Mr. Hun
tington of Woodbury, William Adams
of Marr . Gordon, Walter P. Scott of
E. A. Bugbee & Co., VV. B. MacKenzie of
ittlciohn, Odge-ra &. Milne, Frank
Wheat on and W. F. Corry of Wctmore
& Morse, N. Pelaggi of Northrield, Frank
'hillips, E. A. Chase and W. S. Davis ot
Phillips & Slack, Xorthfield, Fred Davis
and D. S. Davis of Davis Bros., West
Berlin, Robert Perry of the Drew-Daniels
Co., Waterbury and C, D. Swasey
the Union Granite Co., Waterbury;
Mrs. Joseph Calcagni, Mrs. W. P.
cott, Mrs. W. B. MacKenzie, Mrs. Don-
Id Smith. Miss M. MacDonald, Miss
Annie Barclay and Miss Marguerite Kit-
redge of Worcester, Mass.
Among those who are m the eonven-
ion city already are: John Oltolini of
the Apollo Granite Co., George Bond, A.
H. Chioldi of Chioldi Bros., G. R. Bian-
ii of Montpelicr, Levi Cross and Her
man Cross of Cross Bros., Northiield, and
bert Jones of Jones Bros.
Howard Bouchard, 12-year-old son of
Mrs. Mary Nichols of Nashua, N. H., who
is visiting relatives here in the cty, was
almost instantly killed this morning,
when he was kicked in the head by a
horse on the farm of W. J. Nichols, Bk
ley hill, better known as the. A. Touiasi
place. Mrs. Nichols and her 6on arrived
from Nashua a few days since to vlit
at the home of F. A. Nichols of Third
street. Yesterday the Bouchard boy and
his cousin, Eston Nichols, a lad of his
own age, went to the W. J. Nichols farm
for a visit, and it was while the two
boys were handling a horse that the fa
tality occurred.
Soon after 7 o'clock young Bouchard
and the Nichols boy went to the barn
to lead one of the horses into the yard.
Bouchard unhitched the horse from the
stall and the two lads, with the horse
tethered to a long halter, had just
reached the yard when the horse reared
and began to kick. As Bouchard had a
grasp on the halter, the Nichols boy
stepped aside. A moment later the ani
mal seemed to whirl in its tracks and
kick. One of the hoofs struck Bouchard
just under the left temple.
His companion ran to the house, and
Mr. Nichols and others about the prem
ises hurried into the barnyard to find the
little fellow lying unconscious on the
ground. He was removed to the house,
and Dr. W. E. Lazell was summoned
from this city. Before he. arrived and
probably ten minutes after the accident,
the boy died. The left side of the face
was crushed by the impact of the horse's
hoof, and the victim did not recover
consciousness. Barre Town authorities
learned of the accident, and after review
ing the circumstances gave permission to
remove the remains, which were brought
to the undertaking establishment of A.
W. Badgpr fc Co. on North Main street.
People living at the farm do not de
cribe the horse as vicious and believe that
the kicking w as the result of high spirits.
The lad's mother hurried to Bec.kley hill
as soon as she heard of the fatality and
w as nearly overcome by the tragedy. Be
sides his mother, the boy leaves his fa
ther and a brother, four years old, who
live in Nashua. Funeral arrangements
have not been completed, but it is ex
pected that the body will be taken to
Nashua for burial.
STATE GRAND LIST
IS $2,493,816.56
Rutland, Chittenden and Washington
Are the Leading Counties in the Order
Named Report Is Completed
Much Earlier Than Usual.
Complying with section 21 of No. 38 of
the acts of 1910, Tax Commissioner
Plumley has filed with the state treas
urer the grand list for the year 1916, it
being the earliest that the statement has
been completed since the act was passed.
For the first four years, the grand list
was not completed until October, last
year not until Aug. 2t), and this year it
was sent to the state reasurer the first
of the month. The appraised valuation
of real estate is $170,;"fifi.4fl3..)3, the ap
praised valuation of personal estate $(51.
772.240.37, the total amount of real and
j personal estate wiin a uomieuon ior
'debts owinc beini; $2(iM S.4ii4.74.
Following is the aggregate grand Ii?t
of each county:
Addison $!51.5S8.64
FAVOR CAVE.
TURKS ADMIT RETREAT
Italian Steamship St Sebastian Sunk.
London, Aug. 12. The ItaLan steam
ship St, Sebastian Las been sunk.
After Recent Battles with British East of
Suez CanaL
London, Aug. 12. Admission is made
in a telegram irom Constantinople tnat
the Turks were compelled to fall back
after recent battles with the British east
of the Suez canal.
TOBIAS SMUTS DEAD.
Was Member of Parliament and a Gen
eral. Cape Town, Africa, Aug. 12. General
Tobias Smuts, a member of Parliament,
is dead. He was a candidate for the
presidency of the Transvaal against Paul
Kruger.
PLEADS NOT GUILTY.
MANY WERE KILLED.
at
By Explosion in a Powder Factory
Dudesti.
London. Aut. 12. According to a tel
gram from Bucharest, the number of
persons killed bv an explosion in a pow
ilei facte 17 at budesti was Hi,
George W. Duncan Arraigned on Charge
cf Murder.
Barre Board of Trade Going to South
Royalton Thursday, Aug. 17.
The fourth of the series of get-together,
or better acquaintance tours which
Secretary of state Thomas B. Wright the Barre Board of Trade is conducting
of Burlington. I will take place next Thursday evening,
Treasurer1 Orlo E. Luce of Stowe. ! Auc 17, with South Royalton as the ob
Auditor Jeremiah C. Durick of Fair'jective point. These trips afe proving
Haven. I verv sntisfaforv and eniovable and an
Attorney general-Fred L. Webster of (advertisement and boost to Barre. A few newspapers. Many have already spoken
Swanton. I tickets have already been sold for the!a good word in his behalf, and the coin-
Lnited .states senator Oscar C. Miller; supper, and it is cnnlnlcntly expected thit !mpnts navo been printed in this paper.
01 Newport. narre win nc reprcspuicq hi ouuin iotai-
Many State Newspapers Say Good Word
for His Candidacy.
That the candidacy of Thomas H.
Cave, jr., for the office of state auditor Windham
is beinsr well received throuL'hout the I Windsor
cl-tA 18 in.! f oil i Tin r.llliviln t nf fllf1
u... ... ...u..wvv. ... ......
loiai
Bennington
Cah'donia . .
Chittenden .
Essex
Franklin ...
Grand Isle .
Lamoille . . .
Orange
Orleans
Rutland . .
Washington
Congressman, first district Dr. Emmet
B. Daley of Bennington.
Second district G. Herbert Tape
Bane.
of
STRUCK BY TRAIN.
E. L. Brown Injured After Wife Went
to Burlington for a Funeral.
Burlington, Aug. 12. Mrs. Ernest I..
ton by at least 2W people, providing ac
commodation can be had for that number.
The South Royalton people are en
thused over the proposed occasion, and
they are advertising the event in their
own snd adjoining towns snd making
strenuous efforts to make the meeting a
community success, with the expectation
that several hundred people will be in at-
I44.221.2ii
1 ..($ 1.8
327,o38.fi5
31, 04(1.4')
172.447.34
10.W00.31
7i.3S4.70
115.4 14.1 'ti
l.0,773.00
330.4.V2.00
. 27.-.2l3.1.-
210.084.83
2U.",170.-2.
$2,433.846..;
FUNERAL AT WATERBURY.
Richarl
Other comments are here given:
Thomas Cave, jr., is alter the state
auditor job in real earnest. One can
not help admire the man for his activ
ity, in fact the position he seeks war
rants a candidate putting some hustle
into his rainrainn. It is a cood sijn
that he is a lit man for the office and, the Methodist Episcopal church olTicia!-
tms, H just whatjing. nariai was in ire laniny 101 r.i
Water- the cemetery at Waterbury tenter, the
1 bearers were the three sons of the di -
Masons Attended Services for
Demeritt.
Waterbury, Aug. 12. The funeral of
Richard Dtmeritt was held at 2 oVhvk
yesterday afternoon at his late re-idemv
on Main street, the Rev. Wme Smith -u"
as lar as we can see,
ceased, Homer, Henry and Roy Deim-ritt,
Rutland, Aug. 12. George W. Duncan
of this city, aged 30 years, wbo shot his
wife with a revolver at the
relative here last Saturday
woman arms at tne .Rutland Hospital 4 cimtv eig
hours later, was arraigned before City j present an electrical engii;e-r lor the
Judge F. G. Swicnerton yesterday on theMieneral Elevtric oompanv of B.j.-t u. lie
kare of murder in the first degree. ul j rcbablr recover.
tendance at the outdoor entertsinment. j is happening m -Mr. iaves case
Siirnor will be served at 7 o'clock. Car- bury Record.
Brown rtf Riistnn. Mas - fnrm..rW nf'vir. nr .v... f.mf.v ; . 1.,,-!nt 1
Burlington, who was .ailed here to at- the stirrer hour. A short talk will be The announced candidacy of Thomas; bis two brothers Alvin an J Charles De
fend the funeral of her father, the late ' riven bv someone from Barre. The Barre H- ve. jr., of Montpelicr for the Ke-.mentt, an,, ms i.roier in-law, Kerauci
H. J. Vancor, has received word of a j Board of Trade will show about 150 pic-1 publican party nomination for state au- Lyon The W mooski lodge. No 40, i.
serious injury to her husband. Mr. Brown ifures of Barre and her industry. WhiVIditor, is one thst seems to meet a gener- A. M., ot a ternary .uen..ei i,e serv.
was involved in an automobile accident 'the pictures are being thrown on the si party apruoval throughout the state. ' ic- 11 a bdy, ss did the en-.p.oyes of
near Milford, Mas. A freight train ran (screen the Barre band will give an pen- For some time past .Mr. Cave has seen the ucmeriit comrsnj. Among inosa
Into a car in which he was riling with a; air concert. A space in the open has a service as assistant swie treasurer, w.e ; 1 v ... .- ;" V'V
fr;n - i ;n.,A tr T?, ...t. a t .....: t ji . n .,,. of which office are c oselv inter- inersi were: n"ir.er imn 01 nui-
titr S9 - - i II - U 1 ' I ! I n ' I IM W !l UHlirilsii'iis Pi !.'!(, itll " .
, wbo shot his fered contusions of the body, a broken 'who wish ean dance, the music to be fur-1 link! wi,h ,hnMI th "'t"r'a de-1 land, Mr. and Mrs. Alvin Demeritt of
he house of a leg and other injuries. Ini-hed for the same. rsrtment and hence he is made all the .K.bnon Mrs. Alice Hojrers of Hanover,
ay night, the He was a resident of Burlington or vi- j The number of tickets to be sM f, better equipped for the place. In other N. H.. Mrs. Will tarn Law of Saranse
nd hospital 24 cinitv eight or ten yrsrs acn. Ue is at limited. Every member of th- Bam-1 words his election would be a pr..m - lke. V V. Chjr!ci Law ot Lo An-
1- 1 TV.J.. .-. ? , 'tion and advancement because of t-.d- .1- !. . -Mrs. w ..rrira ci ."vri-
T.. .JmmMhiimu a.'..,,,w..in- and ex per'ence. White River June-i en-He. Mass.. and Mr. snd Mrs Oor;
inhle .!! be limited: conseouentlv 1011 tiou
at-
Land. nark.
Hamilton of Grosst iwn, N. H.
