Pi
m:
w
w
m
P" . n
'I
"aUATII COUNTY'S
JSSlAL NEWSPAPER
L-
h?
netting Herald
ELAMATH FALLS' I
OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER
ir , irf: -nm rsTa
nv-H-w"
KLAMATH FALLS, OREGON, SATURDAY, AUGUST 12, 1916.
Price Five Cents
ARBITRATION FAILS-MAY MEAN STRIKE
Af mmmmmmmmmmmmAmmmmmmmmmmmmlmmtmvytnjyjyjVynvvulXHJ
PROBABILITY STRIKE
IS SAID TO BE GRAVE
Suffragists Whose Arguments
Helped Change Mr. Hughes9 Opinion
ONLY APPEAL TO WIl.GON OR A
STRIKE WILL OETTLC
CffciU of MeJIallcn Have Failed, the
Brctberhoede Oatiiu rt Arbltra
Iln Never l Salliiarloiy Rallioad
Announce! llMtlliirit to race. Nation
Wide Strilr PrcBlclnit Wileon Atke
Caftftrincr. '
I'Bllnl I'ri'Si H.'iUio
NKW YORK. Auc 12 Kclllciiiciil of
the controvmy btluwii the railroad
Iwibfthoodn and tlnlr citiplnerH HiIh
Bfiernoon appear liiipnrwlhle without
IB Bppl lu I'renliletit Wlltum or :i
ilril. Tli irul)alillll nf it strike be
j(fBlll l wry Kriivc this afternoon.
All effort of tin' federal mediation
koird lo Induce I ln liiiillirliiHXH li
ht1 Bfbltratlnli have failed. Tin
tnlnmen ay arbitration never brine
B MIlSIBCInry H'IIU'IIH'III rtlWIIIIIVII
BfJUtlon ha failed, further tiieeMuj!
tllb It mediation tmird tiro welied-
Blnl for tomorrow
The railroad InxM iliat they nr
tttdr to far a nationwide strike If
tb brolberhoodi cotit linu to refuse In
Btbllrat.
Tbe brothrrliiNMlH late HiIh nfter-
won announced tin lr wllllnmieMi lo
ftttfl 1'renlilcnl WINoii'h hivlln'l'i'i
to Itirnrrne, In hopes of averting n
thikr. They h;i i Mil ict'elved his.
Mir, but will ili'lu action If lu iid
i'it In confer 1 . 1 1 tliriii
MONDAY LAST DAY
10 GE1 SPECIAL
UNLESS 1?5 TANC sigh ur ur..
rOflE MONDAY CVrNING FOR
opcciai. train io wren onr.
cannot lie sccunrn
If Hut Kliiltiullt 1'ulli r.'iliil want :i
special tialn Ifi WimI on Atlcilit :'Hli,
llii ilali' or the Klamath r.ill.i W'cimI
hat!elmllr,!iuie for the chnuipliiiiHhip of
Nolllii'tii California uml otiiheiu Ore
r.oti, tin1)' minil nlgn H liv next Moii
iluy evening. MliniiR'T Hay Willi of
I lio local leam hiih Unit lllileiH l'.""
fniw declare define Motnlay evening
Hull H iy will laid- Him Mp. a special
lllilll rwiltol Im secured
Any person IhIiIiik to sign up Tor
tin special train may d ho at Hn I'altn
Cigar store or the lleinld otuci No
(Ii-khIi Im resulted now; tnciely rutin
In ami nay you'll ko.
To date nbiMH foily fatiM have hU'ikmI
ui. The fnri' will Im $3.15 for Hie
rotinil trip.
HOLD CONFERENCE
AT it E.
r lav " vnaBcn ( a f? B-XKZLbte 'k-. .Ki" vH
CHURCH
PbIIM Prn Hit m
WASIIINdTON, I C. Ann. 1 -
rrenMcnt Wllxim lum nollllnl icpn-
irBlBllvM of ilm four lirollii'rliooi'rt
ttil rallroaiU Hint lie wImIich lo talk
tllblbera btfnri' a Klrlti. In rtillcil.
W,.--w.-m :.JvSWi-rrtV
e-urjiiiiiaiujU'j urw'"rojw-iart.'t TVTrr ."-TTrT. Sir unniiiAij nc e lJtJirr w-l lf-
MR15.CAHPIJ CHAPMAN CAT I PK. WNA 2Wvv piiij. . ' --
Mm. Cairli Chapman Cult, one of Hio v.onian HUffraRe question than Hie thorn that tho National As.sociatlon
llir nlilcitl. If not Hj nblcHt woman In w.nk or nny othcrTi, Mrt; latl, JJr-, Woman SulTrHKo-AHociation would be
Hi- Unlli'il SIiiIok. pr.-Hldont of llio rtl.aw ami Mrn. Whiloliouso called on' KlUiSnw, wlth ,,, Htand on le 8UffraKe
""" A ' W("',M '"' Mr "Fl';'lHN-wVrkl.cd,,ua. re)Ublican candidato's
Aiiorlallim, Or Anita Unwind Sli.iw, urn .inly 17lli, and tirtst-d hint to lu!p
loim.T pn-Hlili-iii. and Mm. Norman !. tln wiiiiioii or tl.f rountry In tlieir UrM a-uianccM were lived up to by hlra
It Wlillclionse, vlialriiuin of tbo New for the ballot by Rlvlni; an Indorsement tu.tli In l.ia recent teleRram to Senator
'unit malf woman mitTraKe parly, weio of -uftnKe "wllhout any Hiring to It." Sutlierland of Utah, and his Kpeech be-
the three whose nrKUiiieiitK did more Mr. IIiigliPH lltened lo them attentive- fore the Women's Roosovelt I-eague at
to eanne ChaileH K. IIUKhe.s lo mi' 1 for moi than an hour, and at the the Astor hotel in New York city on
noimre hlnmelf for federal action on conclusion of the Interview a.s.suied August lt.
WAR ONLY RECOURSE
IN CABLE TAMPERING
SERRUE
HEARING
SET FOR TUESDAY
ENGLAND DENIES 8HE HAS WITH
HELD ORDER3
State Department Sayt It Can't Help
Situation, Because England Has a
JUSTICE GOWEN POSTPONES? Rlght t0 De,ay or Hold blearame
in War Timet Russian Business
Man Says America Has Been Cheat
ed of About $100,000,000.
HEARING OF ACCUSED FRENCH
MAN BECAUSE AS YET HE HAS
NO COUNSEL
Several nddie.HiicM and a rotimltahk'
illci'iitudau are hcheduled for the conn
f) conference lo be held nexl Mon.liv
til ilm Melhoill-it chin eh In the inlet-
enl of the lenip.'itniro cailrfe. The con
Vliillng Sister. teience will Ix'dli at ID o'clock, Willi
Mm. Thomas Stanley of Anhlnml In devotional neil(cn led by Mm. II. A.
rnctora llt with her iihier. Minn Kowlo.
Ullle Bloomlngcatnp, , H, . Oinibar will npetik on the
boy mid lllli ptobletll, and Itev. I.. .
ItlcharilH will r.lve an nildnwH on com
mtinlty life. Mm Jennie Kemp, male
preHldeul of I In Women'rt Chrhtlan
At Cprlnfl Creek.
Urn. P, M. White and children are
muting at Spring Creek.
GOLD Hill PLAYS !MiSS DELAP 10
HERE TQMORROWi ATTEND COLLEGE
Willi the Injiited membem of tho
hual ball Irani much Improved, Kl.un
nib KiiIIh Hhonld ro well toninnnw nf
lei noon at Modoc IMrk acainHt Hold
C'slsyers Home.
County Airrlculiiirlnl and Mm. II. R.
G'tuyer have returned from a two
i'buio trip in Callfornlu. Al 3nn
JriBclBco they were joined by Mm I.
I Slanott, wuo ,.,( , So,h(.ril
P'n of California with them.
" m
ttl Storm Rogue River.
Accord ,0 '" ipclvnl by I..
ItObertBOn. aca ., - ... ii...ii-
Ti1l "' ' " "UIIIB
wpbone and TeleKn.t., ,..n..
Z , ,on" mv,''1 ,l"!" llvorl
UsURht. Tr.e were blown
Temperance Union, will conduct tl i,n 'n. IkIIIiik plajem aro ox-
rrnmd table.
I.unch will be nerved al noon. A S
o'clock In (he evening Mm. eKmp will
(peak on the titan hrewei't) amendment.
J, II, llenulir
Klamath for I he week end
-
In down f i om Port
Ram Dixon wan In the county acul
toduy from lilit farm near Olene.
Mr. and Mm. (' II. Uuderwood re-
.HA 1.I . l t . ..!..!. Tl.lt I I'ltlll
aotn in iw oiown nil neu lum iiii;iu iihi
tbe ir mucn ,rul1 wiih blown from where tho former intended btiycrj'
- t week. --..
Overthrow of Carranza
Government is Hinted
peeled Ihhi evening' by automobile, an
cninpauled by a few fans.
Chat lei I'tultl, exCoaat Leayuo
I wirier, will do the i.uiIIiik for Hold
Hill, accoidliu; to lepoitK, and I.yh
llltjbee, probably the beat dinger lu
the bushea of Hie I'acillc Coast, will
iiiiiament the mound for KlamuMi
rails. It nhoiild bo a pltchcm' battle,
villi Ulghee probably having the edee
bocause II hi belovied Klamath Falli
hn:i the better hitting club.
Anyhow. It nucht lo bo a good game,
well worth Hit money. Come out and
encouiage the boyt. for the big slrujf
gle with Weed on August 20.
To hid goodbye to their slater and
daughter, Oclavla, who Is to attend
Iho University of California, every
member of the family of County Clerk
C It. Pel.ap gathered at the DeLap
home at noon today. With her brother
True II. Oel.ap of Richmond, nho lert
shortly after noon for Berkeley.
Mias DeLap will lake a courso In
liberal arts, She expects to take up
high school teaching after graduation
fiom college. She Is a graduate of the
local high school.
Today Is the first time all members
of the DeLap family have been to
gether for a long time, Besides Mr.
and Mrs. DeLap, there were piesont
Oclavla, her two al3lers, and the tI
boys, Trus 1I Perry, Charles, Cheater.
Lloyd and Virgil.
IS CHARGED WITH
STEALING A NOTE
Charged with stealing a promissory
note and selling It, Ralph Sallscli was
an est oil today, and has been commit
ted to the county jail. When brought
beiore Justice flowen his bonds were
frst fixed at $250. but he was unable
to give this amount.
The Information against Salisch is
sworn to by J. II. McPall, a farmer
uoai Olene, who charges that Sall3ch
stole from him a note for $231 and sold
II to Dick lirown, who gave it to Mc
Pall, for $C5, keeping the money him
mU". It Is said that Salisch pretended
to Brown that McPall bad given him
the note for services.
The crime with which Salisch Is
ciiarged la a felony.
liccause he bad no counsel, justice
of the Peace Gowen this morning post
poned until 10 o'clock Tuesday tbe
hearing of M. C. Oerrue, charged with
Improper relations with his minor
daughter. Gerrue has not obtained
bondsmen, so is detained in jail.
A good sized crowd of spectators, all
ruen, gathered at Justice Gowen's of
fice this morning, expecting to heat
from tbe witness stand some details of
the case.
It is feared that Gerrue will commit
Mileldc if given the opportunity. Be
fore being moved last evening from tbe
county to the city jail he told Deputy
Sheriff Lloyd Low that' if he were put
ir. the city jail again he would kill
himself with a pocket knife he bad se
creted in the mattress of bis celL Dep
ii' y Low searched for tbe knife, and
found It in the mattress, already
opened.
He also made a search of Gerrue's
person, and in his shoe found a steel
wire about eight inches long, with one
end sharpened. It is thought the wiro
was sharpened on tbe point by rubbing
it on tbe cement floor of the county
Jail, -
United Press Service
WASHINGTON, D. C, Aug. 12. The
state department announces that Eng
land "indignantly denies" diverting
Russian cabled orders, directed to
America, to British firms.
Tbe state department has no hopes
of relieving the situation, aa England
has a right to delay and withhold mes
sages because of the exigencies of the'
war.
America's only recourse seems to be
a declaration that England Is "un
friendly," which Is equivalent to a dec
laration of war.
Indians Marry.
Justice of the Peace E. W. Gowen
last evening performed the ceremony
making Harry Clarkson and Amy Jf.
Tlce man and wife. Both are Indians.
United Press Service
CHICAGO, Aug. 12. M. Aspoatni
koff, president of tbe International
Manufacturers Sales company, esti
mates that America has lost about
100.000,000 worth of Russian trade dur
ing the past eight months aa a result
of alleged British tampering with Rus
sian cablegrams to this country. It la
charged that British censors on some
occasions have delayed orders to
America, and that on other occasions
have given tbe orders to British firms,
although they were directed to Amer
ican firms.
Ships Cattle.
Two carloads of fine two year old
beef cattle were shipped this week by
J. L. Beckley to Miller & Lux of San
Francisco. The cattle were bought j the Band Box,
from Ross Flnley and averaged 1,157
pounds a head.
; To Buy Stock.
j Mrs. F. U. Patrick left on the noon
I train for San Francisco to buy fall and
1 winter stock for her millinery Btore,
At Hospital.
Mrs. Emmitt McGee was operated
upon at the Blackburn hospital es-terday.
Visiting Friends.
Mr. and Mrs. Austin Cox of Spring
field are here to visit friends and re!-
atives. Mrs. Cox is a sister of George
Humphrey.
From Spiinrj Creek.
Mm. Chntien I. Roberts and son htivo
leluined fiom Spring Creek, where
Iney welt camping for several weeks.
From Wisconsin.
Mrs. II. I. Dopp of Wisconsin is vis
iting Mm. CI. A. Krnuse.
h
&
;J . Herv.ce
iJ..0:To)t'Aug.l2.-AKOvo,n.
Sliver Tea.
1 ihe Ladles of (he Clulstlan elur.ch
will Rive a idlver lea at Iho homo of
imi. liniiv nimllto'. First .and I'lno
, kneels, ml Thursday afternoon, at
2 110 o'clock. Ft lends and member.-, of
illnni Ih not known. II Is believed the ll.n chinch an invited.
wealthy Mexicans In America urn able
Home From Medford.
Miss Kllzabeth Manning returned
1 this -week from Medford, where she
I bus been visiting relatives. .
Tc Eagle Ridge.
Miss Willa l.eonnid left Ibis morn
lti, for KiirIo Ridge lo bo the gitesl of
Mis. Mary (liifllth, proprietor of Haglo
Rldgo Tavern.
CITY BEAUTIFUL
CONTEST CLOSING
To discuss ntrangementa for tho
closing of the city beautiful contest,
representatives of Iho Women's Libra
rv Club and Klamath Commercial Club
aio meeting this afternoon ut tho lat
ter 's heiidquai tern. Fifty-four homes
in Klamath Falls are entered for prizes
in the contest.
it's a Girl.
News has reached here of the birth
of a fine girl to Mr. and Mrs. Harry
Gallagher of Willows, Calif. Mm.
James McClure, mother of Mrs. Gal
lagher, will leave Monday to visit her
daughter.
Home From Trip.
Roy Moore and A. J. Voye returned
yesterday from California, where they
went with Judge Thomas Drake. Judge
Drake will Bpend some time touring In
California. W. T. Shive, who also
went from here with the party, re
turned Thursday.
Retreating Austrians
Pursued by Russians
Last sin In" lilrtiinvi worn taken of
'. offlcl. ,:; r.,,K-..ls:-A n'"' womthy Kmmm in America an. num " TT - - c.... ' ..; . T.. ...i n,U rn .
VIM.. "wih tint secret Hnr- In finance a liwoll with noma success. , V Mt ng Mrs. iviooic. i"1"111"1 -" -"i"n- - --
:Tleareghi.,i..,i- .V ""t- in nnnnci. n nmiii wihi miii n ,, n..nlH PnH4 ,.n,i mih i.ueiiin Waldron. daimhtor of .ther nlcluro wl be taken of each.
ttiK 11. Bartlett of Now Mr. and Mr, A. 0. W.ldn. and Floyd On tho basis of Implement in gen-
'"OIU hum .. P "' "".minimi rJDXIUimi HllSpemeu III nil i"'"l" "' ni. ulm- i KV m nl Mp. riuI Mm. U. J. Kb. nrnl imnenrnnpn. nrlzes nie to bo
tulik. . ' u I" uo lived Hint inullnv from Hie Carranza (an sou Anile, en visiuhk mi p. " - - -- .7
Hnlrans ,,lq,nK inZml iJZoCUiUum,', 8. Moor. , wete married lasl n.ghUUt.ieMellio. awarded by the two clubs.
inning a revolution lu overthrow Cllv - lM Vttnom b Rl v' R ' ,clm,,l!l-'
l.'H'W'A Kovernn,n voru,!ow, , , . ., Attmr lirl(E. M. R. McFerrln and Miss Irene Kri Delivers Hogs.
Hv.r currani'thu Hevertl America , ttrn InHliu-! Joe McDonald. IM Hunlor and paily were best man and bridesmaid. Thev Jesse Drew a rancher near ; Hllde-
revolution left yostoidiiy for uiuu i;uiiyuu n mi una muntuih ."..m , ..,....., ,w0.v.m, ..,. .. ... w.
levlllUllllll nil. il'l""i""J , . .,,., ,.,. , ,.. , (i,n,m nnial.l at Xllillar..!
deei hunt. T.'ey will no in iiiu conn- iur u uoucuiuuu mf. ,..... mcj ,- in.t, . bu wm -v .,u...u.
uilinm the be bUCkB roam WIIWl turn lliey will leaiue i ui apiuia uiueiu io mupiiuie uua iiu iav
It i.tui . """rnment
i - mniee: that
ttHuy h,v '"" "verul Currana that nevrul Ameiirt
ivoluiLP,0m,Hoa ,0 ,nvoU lnn,onll In the threutc
'tb,Zl';ttlM' The extent iy plot. All Amerfal
I H taiC UB0 8 revolutlon bnrdor are being exum
Wttl anion mi . j....... . i
threatened
wins crossing tho
exumlued as to 'their
ttong Mexioan sol desUnatios and-'purpoao in Mexico.
tiy
I Uie aeason opena Tuoaday morning, j Addition.
place.
United Press Service
PETROGRAD. Aug. 12. The Rus
sians have crossed the Zelota Blstritza
River and are pursuing the Austrians
retreating from Stanislau. Also they
have crossed the Czarna Blstritza Riv
er near Nadvorna, twenty miles south-,
east of Stanislau.
I'nlled Press Service
LONDON, Aug. 12,-Oeneral Hal
reports that this afternoon the Ger
mans lost heavily In unsuccessful coun
tering north of Pozleres.
Two German aeroplanes dropped
four bombs on Dover tbla afternoon.
There was no damage.
United Press Service
PARIS, Aug. 12. The French have
progressed northeast of Verdun,, and
have repulsed heavy attacks on both
sides of tbe Somme. Artlllerylng is
active at Chenolsa, Vaux and Chapitre,
United Press Service
ROME, Aug. 12. The Italians have
occupied Oppachlsella, south of Qorlt
ta. "They also have crossed the Cal
lone River and have occupied the west
ern slopes of Montenadlogem.
Austrian seaplanes have raided Ven
ice, destroying the famous church of
Snnta Maria.
United Press Service
BERLIN, Aug. 12. The French hare
penetrated the wood northeast of Hem.
Other western attacks by tbe allied
have failed.
Russian attacks on Dubeysek arid v
Torsclaaur have been reputeed..
V
JijV,
. !&.(
'&.:&
tw
