y I J rJi a. j- . '
Stm.'.
WEATH1
Partly cloudy to-day and probably to
morrow, continuing warm.
HiliMt ttraptntur ytsttrdar, to lowest, 71.
Detailed weather, man and marina reporta on pag a 7.
IT SHINES FOR ALL
VOL. LXXXni. NO. 342.
NEW YORK, MONDAY, AUGUST 7, 1916. Copyright, Itlfl, by tAe Sun Prtntlnp and Publishing AtteelaHon.
ONE CENT
In flrrater Nw York,
Jersey City and Newark. J
Blaewher
TWO CENTS,
agist
RUSSIANS TAKE
SIX VILLAGES;
CROSS SERETH
House to House Battle Is
Fought Before Foes Are
Driven Out.
HOLD POSITIONS ON
CONNECTING BIDOES
Germans Take Offensive on
West Side of the
Stokhod.
'GAINS CLAIMED FOR
KAISER'S NEW ARMY
$00 Teutons Captured in
Engagements Along
the Sereth.
loXBON, Aa . Russian force
rsastna; th Rlvrs Sarath and araberka
4ar (oak alz village from, the Au
Maaa la daaparata house to' house
MMlaa; and consolidated their position
ay taking: the entire ride which con
Met (be at towns, according to the
effldal annotmeament from the Petro
crad War Office. The Oerman War
Ofloa admits that the Ruaalane eetab
listed thmlvs on the writ bink of
Cke Sereth.
The battle waa one of the hardrat
tlat hta been fought on the eastern
front. The Teutona ottered obetlnata
resistance all dajr for the vtltagea and
heights, the Russians state, and when
they were dislodged after a dogged re
treat from building to building their
funs took up the work and to-night
are bombarding the position. Zvyln.
Itatlache, Tchlitopady. Meldslgory. Onl-
dava ana zaivoce are the towns occu
pied.
Von Hlndenburg Is rapidly reenforclng
hl linen along the fltokhod, according
to despatches from Petrodgrad. Htan
ley Washburn; the correspOadint'iOf tfte
Time on the Russian rset,''.eey;l be
lieves mree new oiviaeoivs, on. 01 mem
from Franc. mmWMk' rous effort thl. men to
upposrdly
within a week.
ek. The proporflon'of der?
mana to Austrlana la increaalng notably.
The losses of the Auatro-Oerman
armies are heavy, he asserts. Prisoners
taken by the Russians say' the Oerman
rrMrves, are already consumed, and add
that stores and heavy guns are' being re
moved from Kovel..
The Germans assumed the offensive
routh of Delatln, which la In the region
contested by the same commanders aa
the Sereth, but the outcome la In doubt.
Tke Oerman announcement aaya suc
crinti were scored, the Russians. assart
the enemy was brought to a stop by the
artillery.
In the Kovel sector the Russian
apparently suffered a reverse. Berlin
announces that they wars driven .from
their last foothold on the wejjL-aUe of
the Stokhod, where the OennaaV forces
have taken up a position on the heights
which so far ties proved Impregnable.
In the fighting aloe the Berwth the
Russian official statesmen t asserts that
E.fiOO men were captured Friday and
Saturday, besides several machine guna
and trench bomb throwers.
Tha correspondent of the rests ac
cuses the Oerman airmen of a campaign
to murder civilians and tba wounded be
hind the Russian-11 nee. H aaya tha
Oerman machines fly aa law ad possible,
pouring machine' gun flrvlnto tha stricken
populace. Eleven were killed and forty
wounded In this manner on August I.
Hospitals are bombarded from tha sir
dally, he says, with the result that many
are killed and wounded.
He asserts a Oerman airmail' two days
ago attacked an unprotected column of
ambulances In open country, tha avia
tor's machine gun killing twenty of ths
wounded in the vehicle. There' is no
possibility of mistaking ambulances for
transport wagons, he adda, for the rea
son that the ambulances are covered with
canvas.
GERMANS ON OFFENSIVE.
New Army of Hladeabar Checks
Advance a a Kavel.
London, Aug. 6. Since the loss of
Brody by the Austrian and the sue
cessful operations of the Russians
against the Germans, which resulted In
their xalnlna- the whole of the line along
the Stokhod, the situation on Gen. Bru-
siiori'a front has remained virtually un
altered. The Russians have by no means lost
control of the Initiative, but another
wave of most energetic Oerman resis
tance has net In nnd the newlv orcantxed
German army, which Is composed of all
available reserves and fresh recruits,
hait undertaken the task of changing Its
tactlcH from passive resistance to a most
actle counter offensive.
l'lcl.l Marshal von Hlndenburg'a per
sonal direction of the operations In this
IH'l Is quite apparent, but It Is not
th UKht possible by the Russian observ
ers tlmt lie can more than temporarily
check the advance of the. Russian forces
upon Km 1 1.
Meantime, the Russians, by gaining
rontrol of the northern Dart of the Stok'
hod, where it crnm the Plnsk marshes,
"firliigiy have eliminated effectively all
"n.Kir of further flank attacks by the
nans and are njw In n position to
continue their progress along the direct
rninf-n to Kovel without fear of the pos-
fii.ic enclrrlinic of inelr right wing.
The Austrian, concentrating; on the
rtm.N to Lrmberg, are endeavoring to
I'"'"! their opponents in. the region of
Ihe Sereth. a few miles southwest of
nrr.iy The Uussluns have already
'cored minor succesaee In this contlnua
t;on of the Broily b.ttle, but the strong
Aimrlnn defence leaves the outcome In
nouht
. h extreme southern flank of .the
Aiinrlnn forces under (ten. Pflanxer.
ahlch were so badly shattered after the
fall n; Ciernowlts, have brought about
a partial reorganisation and are making
nw atttck upon the left wing of aen
oruilloff's forces In the reslnn south'
of Kuty. ' This attack, however, I
9 Xif Fa
BARON WIMBORNE IS
IRISH VICEROY AGAIN
Efforts to Work Out New Gov
ernment System Believed
to Be Dropped.
latino, Aug. . Baron Wlmborne
haa been reappointed Lord Lieutenant of
Ireland, It was announced to-night.
The home rule plan drafted by David
Lloyd Oeorge, which was rejected by
Irish leaders In Parliament, provided for
the appointment of' "a new Lord Lieu
tenant" aa a preliminary step In the
adoption of the new arrangement. The
resumption of the poet 'by Baron Wlm
borne la taken as an Indication that the
efforts of the Government to work out a
new system of government for Ireland
have been abandoned.
One of the first disclosures of the In
vestigation which followed the sup
pression of the Sinn Fein rebellion was
that "castle rule" had utterly broken
down In Ireland. Baron Wlmborne, who
had resigned his post, was exonerated.
He made the assertion before the In
vestigating commission that hid powers
had been usurped completely by the
Chief Secretary and tha Under Secre
tary, and that while he had been aware
of tha growing danger and had warned
the Home Office and War. Office, he had
been stripped of power so thoroughly
that there waa nothing he could, do.
The announcement of the appointment
to-night was something of a surprise be
cause aa tat aa July 29 Lloyd George
said he did not despair of a settlement
Baron' Wlmborne was born in 1173.
Hs la second, of the line, having suc
ceeded his father In 1114. He Is a. cousin
of Winston's. Churchill. .He won dis
tinction In tha Boer war and Is. known
In America as the sportsman who
hrouerht tha nolo team here, which la-
captured 'the International trophy In the
year he acceeded to we title.
Me resigned as Lord Lieutenant May
10. following the resignation of Augus
tine Blrrell, Chief Secretary.
TO SPLIT HUNGARY'S
ARMY FROM AUSTRIA
Plan Sought by Cdunt Karolyi
So. Budapest May Sue
for Peace.
'sect! Gaels 4iltk is Tas tea.
Lewnow, Atsg. i. Count Karolyi. a
to kaaiM taii' OnsMsstttan narty. will
L ??!iVIn SX SST rZZ
nuns M mvmmm.mv u
sue for a separate peace, according to
,. -i..).. iiu.. iawI.v frnin tha
Morning Poet's correspondent In Buda-
.. . . .....
The Pesfi jvopio assert mat
solely to the eelf-sacrlflclng bravery or
the Hungarians that Austria has not
been entirely crushed. "The Austrlana.
the newspaper says, "have not done aa
much for 'the 'monarchy or Itaelf In the
last four centuries, as the Hungarian
army has done In the last two yeara."
Tha correspondent adds that Parlia
ment reassembles August t. when Count
Karolyi will open- a debate op the sub
ject of a separate Hungarian army.
"The crux or tna wnoie movement
tha question of peace," ear th Mr"
respondent "Without a separate army
nothing can be done, whereas with one
Hungary not only can make peace, but
also can gat the upper hand of Austria.
"In Hungary It la reausea mere
nothing to gain and everything to lose
by a continuation of hostilities, and the
Question how Is whether to lose every
thing or try to sav"" something. Tha
Opposition, under Karolyi. knows, as
everybody in the country; knows, al
though nobody dares to say It that Hun
gary cannot continue the war Indefi
nitely. Another year of the war. will
aaa tha whole nation atarved and bank
rupt and nearly all its men mum. or
cripples.'
"Every one also knowa tna Entente
Powers 'are determined to go on for
years if necessary, and will talk peace
only when Germany is on. her knees
suing for It. They believe Germany, too,
can go on for years, but the monarchy
cannot and they believe Germany win
press the monarchy not to desert her.
They know Austria will be a ready
vassal to Oermany and accede to' Ger
man wishes even at a price which Hun
gary cannot pay even If It means the
aacrflce of the whole Hungarian nation.
TTll is wnat tne Hungarian upponi
tlon wishes to avoid and It urges there
for that It la absolutely necessary that
tha nation command Its own military
forces and withdraw them whenever the
Hungarian nation sees nt, rather than,
when the Austrian military party thinks
auch a step desirable."
HOPELESSLY ILL, 18 A SUICIDE.
Invalid's Father Arrrsted for Hav
ing a Pistol In His House.
Brooding over Illness and over his
Inability to obtain admittance to n
hospital; Willi -m Rellly, 17. killed him
self with his father's revolver In his
home, at 761 Elton avenue, yesterday.
His father, Harry Rellly. a bartendei,
waa arrested, charged with violating the
Hulllvan law In kenplng the pistol In
His house'.
Michael Rattone. (7, who said he was
an actor ard lived at s Avenue t,
swallowed bichloride of mercury In thu
LHronx Park botanical gardens yester
day, after writing a nnts a young
woman with whom he was in love. IU
wss removed to Fordham Hospital a
prisoner.
AGREED ON VON HINDENBUKd.
Kalaer aad Bsnperor Arranged New
Slaves oa Kaalarn Froat.
Bcrlin, by wireless to Bayvllls, Aug.
6. The text of the official announce
ment from army headquarters, recently
Issued, telling of the appointment if
Field Marshal von Hlndonburg to lh
chief command on the eastern front Is
as follows:
"During the repent visit of 'the Em
pernr to the eastern front nd with thi
agreement of Kmperor Francis Joseph
a new arrangement for the command has
been. established, according with the new
situation created by the- Russian of
fensive. Several allied army groups
have been put under the chief command
of" Field' Marshal voti .Hlndenburg i for
UAlform employsMnt"
Lansing to attack
foreign problems
Return To-day Expected
See Quick Action to End
Criticisms.
to
LUSITANIA OFFER WAITS
Mall Seizures, Blacklist and
Carranza Noto Will Keep
Secretary Busy.
Washimqton, Aug. . It Is under
stood here that the return of Secretary
Lansing to the State Department, to
morrow I to be the signal for Important
developments affecting the International
problems now confronting the United
States.
The Administration Intends to use the
time between now and election In vigor
ous efforts to eliminate some of the
growing criticism aimed ,at President
Wilson and his foreign policy. Matters
which have been permitted to drag along
from month to month may' be decided In
order to offset the criticism of Inaction,
and particular attention will be devoted
to Mexico, the blockade of oreat Britain
and the Oerman altuatlon.
The German altuatlon resolves Itself
primarily.,, so far as the Administration
fa concerned. Into settling the Lualtanta
case by obtaining that "strict accounta
bility" which President Wilson warned
Germany he would demand If American
lives were sacrificed on the high aeaa.
Though not generally known. It Is a
fact that Secretary Lansing haa In his
desk a definite promise' from the Ger
man Government to make amends to
tha United States along lines Indicated
In the statement which Count von
Bernstorff, the German Ambassador,
handed the-Secretary f-Stat on Feb
ruary 10 last This statement la In tha
form of a proposed agreement to settle
tne case, it is indorsed by the Berlin
Foreign Office, but so far has not been
formally accepted by this 'Government
y All Readr for Slgalaig.
Secretary Lansing's last word to
Count von Bernstorff on the matter waa
that 'It appeared to be satisfactory."
Later Mr. Lansing said this Government
was holding up the agreement until It
ascertained whether. Germany's nledea
to discontinue old methods of submarine
warrara waa to be kept
Now that thla pledge haa apparently
been kept, Count von Bernstorff Is un
derstood to sea no reason why tha
United Btatoe withholds signing the
agreement It Is known that the Ger
tnan Ambassador -has on several occa
sions, refreshed Mr. Lentensa memory;
on the-faet that the agreement waa now
only awaltlar bis- signature.
.nmm oven-sn open sw-im'-amofig taa
President's. political friends that '
this so-called
lied Settlement of th Lutltania
case In such form that I he can maka It
effective at any given moment when he
believes It effect on the'oountry will be
most favorable. It la regarded by many
aa the logical means of obtaining
another "diplomatic victor)- and demon
strating to the country that Germany
haa been held to "strict accountability"
after-all.
But officials of the State Department
who have seen th document are' -disturbed
by certain Heme of the agreement
hnd fear that the Republicans might
make even mora political capital out of
them than they can make out of tha
present statue of tha case. An ideal alt
uatlon from tha Administration's view
point would be to announce that the
agreement had been reached and with
hold details until aftar election.
I The dealls of the argeement ahow,
primarily, that Oermanr haa aereed to
give "strict accountability" In cash for
every. American man. woman and child
lost on the Lualtanla. The price per
man Is approximately $6,000, with a
lesser sum for each American woman
and a still smaller amount for Jeeh
child. Tha rata, per man, woman and
child, was th subject of long discussion.
Ther Is no longer any difference of
opinion between the Berlin Foreign Of
fice ana tne Administration over the
amount which Germany should pay.
Fear 'Pablle Oplaloa.
Though transactions of this nature are
not regarded as uncommon by State De
partment officials, there Is nevertheless
a fear that tha effect of permitting 'Ger
many to square accounts for a stipulated
price on American lives will not be
favorably received In this country. Com
ing In the midst of the campaign. It
might create a very unfavorable Im
presslon. It Is feared, and for this rea
son there may be considerable further
consideration before the settlement Is
signed and made public. Secretary Lan
sing's judgment on this score will go a
long way toward deciding the President's
action.
With respect to the outstanding con
troversies with Oreat Britain, Secretary
Lansing will first consider way and
means of prevailing upon the British
Government to pay some attention to the
constantly growing list of so-called
American demand.
The American blacklist and the mall
selsures controversies are the. twp out
standing features now most proml
nently before the public's notice. It Is
unlikely that the mass of previous esses
which this Government has vainly
brought to Great Britain's attention will
be resurrected. The blacklist' case Is
regarded as so weak legally that Mr.
Lansing probably will be averse to press
ing It, but there remain the mall sen
urea controversy, which permits plenty
of verbal fireworks from this Govern
ment and also the satisfaction of having
a real popular Issue or an Issue that
can be made to appear popular. The
question of the, Inviolability of Ameri
can malls Is regarded by the Adminis
tration as one that the average cltlsen la
acutely Interested In.
Mr. Lansing will find upon his return
that the reply of the British Government
Continued 'on Fourth Page.
'IMPORTANT NOTICE!
Because of the grave shortage of paper in this country, copies of The Sun, morning
and Sunday, and of The Evening Sun, are now non-returnable from newsdealers, along
with the Times, the World, the American and the Tribune. .
To make sure of getting your copy of The Sun, every morning, every evening and
every Sunday, do not fail to leave a standing order with your newsdealer.
FIRE IN "THE SUN" BUILDING
DAMAGES FIVE PRESSES
"Evening Mail" Extends Use. of Its Machines So
Thar the Current Edition of This Paper
Gould "fie Published.
Fir started from an unknown can
last night In. the pressroom of Ths Sum.
Before It was extinguished by tha Fir
Department the five presses had been
damaged slightly and the water had
flooded the paper storeroom.
Although the damage was not consid
erable, immediate repair' of the presses
was Impossible, andthe current edition
of Tna Run was run off on the presses
of the Evening Matt, through the cour
tesy of the management of that paper.
BURGLAR IS SHOT .
ON ASTOR ESTATE
New Yorker Dying of Wounds
Suffered Fleeing: Dutchess
Detectives.
PouoHxaarsia, Aug. I. A man who
says he la Fred Cramer, II year otd, of
New' York. Is .dying In Vassar Hospital
to-night of wounda suffered In flight
from two local detectlvea. a chase which
led across the northern end of Vincent
Astor's estate at Fernellff' early to-day.
The fight with the detective began
when they found Cramer laden with
burglar' tools and he started to run
when they examined a bag which he
carried. The' police assert he le a mem
ber of a band that haa entered the
Dutchess county homes of many wealthy
New York families during the Isst six
months. To-night Cramer admitted he
had three accomplices, but he refused teal
give any runner inrormation.
Detectlvea M. T. Baumbuetth and
James Downing of the Sheriff's staff
have been watching the highways of
northern Dutchess county for the laat
three nights. A few days ago a mask,
a pair of rubber soled shoes and a
bicycle were found In the weeda and
the detectlvea were guarding ths spot.
expecting tha owner to claim them.
Loft a Trail ! Bloat.
Jast before sunrise to-day Cramer,
carrying a bag, cam along. The detec
tive stopped him and started to examine
Ma grip, Hs ran and they opened fire.
Through th woods Terkalf mile tne
"".? emun.uww: flSTE"!
eluded hi pursuers. A call for en
forcement waa sent to- tna onerura
office In Poughkeepel. and Sheriff Conk
lln. Under Blierlff Brlggs and half a
dosen dJbutles hurried up.
They closed In on tha spot where the
fugitive waa believed to be In hiding,
and finally round a trail or oiooa mat
hv rntlnwMl. 'Prmmer waa lvlnar un
conscious under a bush. Four bullets'
had entered his body. A flash lamp, a
Jimmy, and a mask were foand near. In
the grip which he carried when held
up were found, sandwiches, several keys,
pliers, a pistol, candles, a. rope and other
thing.
tolea Property IdaatlSad.
The bicycle which the police found
In' the woods a .few days ago was to-day
Identified aa one which was stolen At
the William Starr Miller place nearly
a week ago. The blanket which' covered
the bicycle' was from the same place.
Most' of the wealthy residents of that
section of the county have engaged spe
cial police to help guard their' homes.
Within the laat week the home of Will
iam Starr Millar and Henry a Mont
gomery at Rhlnebeck and Mr. Margaret
Chandler Aldrich at Barrytown have
been entered.' At the Miller place about
1 1.000 worth of silverware was takei.
Little of value waa taken at the other
places. '
About ten daya ago the home of Mrs.
Thomas I. Howard,, niece of Mrs. Fred
erick W. Vanderbllt. at Hyde Park, was
entered. Mrs. Howard was awakened
by the flash of a lamp In her room.
She feigned' sleep aa tha burglar, who
wore a mask and carried a- pistol, gath
ered up her Jewelry on her 'bureau 'ten
feet away. After he left the room she
rang for the' servanta and. the burglar
and an accomplice, who was at work on
the first floor, fled.
DEMA5D HANGING 01 XAISES.
London Workmen Vreje Other Re
prisals for Kseratlnn of Fryatt.
London. Aug, 6, :I5 P. M. One of
th'e' biggest' demonstrations by workmen
Since the war .began took place In
Trafalgar Square to-day. The great
gathering demanded reprisals for the
execution of Capt. Fryatt of the British
steamer Brussels by the Germans In
Belgium.
Speakers urged the Impounding of all
German property and the hanging of
Kmperor William, Admiral von Tlrplts
and Governor-General von Hissing of
Belgium aa "common malefactors" be
fore the conclusion of peace.
60,000 MORE MAY STRIKE.
Barker. Metal Worker ana Other
Demand Higher Waaes.
The street car Ktrlke Is not going to
have the. fleld to. Itself the coming week.
It was reported In labor circles yesterday
that barbers, metal workers, paper box
makers, children' shoemakers nnd
painters are about to quit work unless
their demand), for higher wages or other
concessions are granted.
' The total number of workers concerned
Is said to be In excess of 60,000,
Tha Tribune also offered Its pressroom
facilities to Tmb Bun In Its emergency.
Similar offers were made by tha Timet
th'e World and the American.
The, Amesjcan eent to Ths Sun enough
white paper for to-day's Issue, the rolls
being brought from the American'
storeroom In Rose street.
A great crowd gathered In Park Row
and City Hall Park aa smoke rolled out
of the basement, In clouds, and as a pre
caution the building waa cleared.
The firemen were handicapped In their
work by the dense amoke, but soon naj
the flame under control.
5 HURT AS MOTOR
JUMPS EMBANKMENT
Army Officer Among Those
Injured in tort Hamil
ton Accident.
A United State army officer, three
National Guardsmen and a civilian were
badly hurt early yesterday when an au
tomobile in which they were returning
to the Fort Hamilton reservation
plunged over a fifty foot embankment
on th Shor road near the entrance to
the army post.
The Injured were Capt J. L. Gtlbreth.
mustering officer In command of the
casual detachment of recruits at Fort
Hamilton, who received painful bruises;
Thomas K. Alford, adjutant of the depot
'battalion of the Fourteenth Regiment a
broken collarbone and bruises; Dr. Vic
tor A. Robertson, acting surgeon of the
Fourteenth Regiment minor Injuries;
Henry Hull, secretary to Adjutant Al
ford, broken collarbone, and Joseph Ben
jamin, a salesman.
It was the merest chance the five men
were not' Instantly killed, aa the car slid
'over tha ateep bank and fall many feet
before It finally reached the bottom,
landing against tree near the water's
edge.
Adjt Alford waa driving, and mistak
ing th turn Into the Fort Hamilton
reservation, veered to the right Instead
of tha left on sharp curve. It was too
late to stop and tha car tor through a
fsnpa'and dropped. The Injured men
wra rahd tVsha Norwegian Hospital.
i
Kills ftt Caaaestleat Crash.
WiMsTgo.Oonn., Aug. (. Homeward
bound to. Torrington after an all nla-ht
rids, to Brewsters, and. running at high
speed, an automobile containing six Tor
rington people hit a railing beside a
sharp curve between Bantam and Litch
field early to-day. Anrelo N. Mlcnone
suffered a fractured skull, from which
he dld at the csunty hospital here.
Two other have
Injuries not thought
serious.
HARDEN BOAT SINKS; 3 SAVED.
Brother-la.law of F. A. Vaaderllp
Haa River Mlehap.
Tamttown, N. Y.. Aug. S. Edward
W. Harden of North Broadway, brother-in-law
of Frank A. Vanderllp, with two
women guests, had a narrow escape this
morning when an air tank exploded and
blew a hole In Mr. Harden's boat, the
Bittersweet, and caused It to sink within
a few minutes. The captain of the ferry
boat Flushing heard Mr. Harden's cry
tor ncip ana rescued tne party with life
belt. Other motor boats near by also rushed
to give assistance, but the Flushing ar
rived first and Mr. Harden and his
guests were dragged aboard after they
had been hanging to the boat for several
minuter
It waa a hoodoo craft. Mra. Harden
and her family were cruising In It last
summer and had a narrow escape when
ll ran' on tha rocks In front of William
Rockefeller's eststs.
FISH FIRES GUN; ANGLER DIES.
Mae Gets Tangled la Friend's
RlSe as He Gets a Bite.
Binokamton, N. V Aug. . Bruce
Chase, member of a prominent Pennsyl
vanla. family, was killed Instantly here
to-day while fishing with Fred Brooks
of Great Bend.
Chase's fishing tackle became caught
In the trigger of a gun held by Brooks.
Chase felt a Wte, pulled on his line and
exploded the rifle.
JOHN D. LAUGHS IN CHURCH.
His Chnrkle Lead Those of Con
gtreirallon at Pastor's (imitation.
Ct.rvxi.ANn. Ohio. Aug. . John D.
Rockefeller couldn't keep from laughing
right out In church this morning, and
th congregation Joined him.
Dr. J. C. Massre'of Dayton, occupying
the pulpit of Rockefeller's rhtirch, de
scribed henpecked husbands, nnd recited
the quotation: "There's not hi n' like a
weddln' to make a fellow learn h
thinks she Is hlsn, and finds that he's
hern."
At 4 Files a.nnn Feet.
Atlantic Citt, N. J Aug. . Harry
Jollne. 4 years' old, of Philadelphia,
qualified as the youngest aeroplane pas.
aenger this evening, when he made a
half hour flight over the city nt an alti
tude of 2,000 feet with Aviator Kenneth
Jaqulth.
NITRIC ACID LETS
GO; 25 GARS BURN
War Plot Suspected in Second
Flro in IlchiRh Valley
Yards.
RESIDENTS
IN A PANIC
Repetition of the Black Tom
Disaster Is Feared as Flames
Shoot Heavenward.
Twenty-five' freight cars In the Clare
mont grain yards' of the Lehigh Valley
Railroad In Jersey City were destroyed
laat night by a fire which the railroad
and police authorities believe was In
cendiary. They were so Impressed with
this belief that descriptions of two well
dressed men. supposed to be Germans or
Austrian's, who were seen In the yards
just after the fire started, were sent out
to all police statlons'ln the city with In
structions to arrest them on sight.
Among the cars destroyed were two
containing nitric ncld In drums, which
were pulled off the pier at Black Tom
after last Sunday morning's great ex
plosion. The roofs of these cars had
been burned off nnd It Is suspected that
somebody thought the tanks were filled
with picric acid, which makes great
havoc when It goes off.
Caases Alarm In Greenville.
The destruction of these cars, which
started things going last night, and the
spreading of the blaxe to other cars In
the yard caused more or less of n panic
among residents of the Greenville sec
tion, particularly those living on Gar
field avenuo nearest to the railroad
yards, and nearly- everybody ran Into
the streets. It was generally thought
that there were cara loaded with dyna
mite and other high explosives In the
yards, nnd folks made their minds up
there was to re n repetition of Inst Hun
day's big bang Many moved their
household furniture out and there were
prayers of thanksgiving when the fire
died out without any terrifying con
cussions. '
The Claremont yards are south of the
Claremont station and west of the Caven
Point road. Oil tank He between the
yards nnd Black Tom. There were about
1,000 freight cars In the yard, maany cf
which were loaded.
The blase started In a merchandise car
at 8 o'cl:ck. Ten minute later one of
the nitric acid cars on the same track
blew up with a muffled report and flames
shot 300 feet In the air. The nitric acid 1
tanks In the second roofless car from
Black Tom followed its example two min
utes later and chunks of Iron and pieces
of wood were hurled around the yards
for a radius of four or five blocks.
'Karaantera Two Saapeeta.
John Hayes of 44 Randolph avenue,
Jersey City, who is employed by the
Lehigh Valley Railroad, saw the flames
shoot heavenward and he ran down the
tracks to give the alarm. He knew that
ever since last Sunday's big blowup En
gineer John Toole had had steam up In
a yard locomotive ready to pull out cars
or loaded frelKht In case a fire or an ex--plosion
occurred. Railroad men have a
way of signalling: with matches when
they haven't lanterns, and Hayes didn't
have either.
Hayes then sighted two well dressed
men walking between cars away from
the scene of the Are and halted them.
He asked them for matches, nnd one of
them replied In broken English:
"You can search me and you don't
find any matches."
Then both took to their heels and ran
away.
An alarm was sent In to the Jersey
City Are department and several engines
and trucks responded. However, the
firemen were unable to get Into the
I.elilgh Valley yards because, they say,
Jersey Central Railroad men refused to
permit them to string their hose across
the Central's tracks.
Lehigh Valley locomotives puffed up
to the blaze as near as they dared and
turned steam on tha burning cars, while
Engineer Toole did his very best to pull
cara off tracks nearest the burning
rrelght cars. The fire spread to cars on
three tracks nnd twenty-five cars,
loaded principally with merchandise,
were destroyed. The flro wasn't put out.
It burned Itself'out nnd spectators on
the eastern slopeH of Greetwllle hnd an
anxious time of It until the flames died
down.
An empty naphtha tank car was with
drawn from the lire xone by hand.
Many men pushed it out of danger's
way.
The men whom Hayes encountered In
the railroad yards and who hud no busi
ness there were described by him as
follows :
No. r A man wearing n light gray
suit, white hpnts and ti straw fedora
hat. lie had a Charley t'huplln mus
tache, No. 2 A clean shaven man wearing
a blue suit and n straw hat,
VON TIRPITZ'S EYES ON U. S.
Soya nrrmnny Must Become Pre
dominant In Flanders.
Iinpon, Am,, fi. A Renter despatch
from Amsterdam mys the Hamburg
.VnrnrlrJifm quotes Admiral von Tlrpltx
of tho German navy ns ha'ving sent the
following reply to a congratulatory tele
gram from a friend
"May Ihe knowledge grow In our
fatherland that Germanism can bo main
tained nnd make lt way only If we
emerge from this war In a firm position
as regnritN Anglo-Americans. We shall
gain this position if Germany and not
England becomes predominant In
Flanders."
Merit Order for Prince Henry,
Kkm.in, via London, Aug, "if, The
Order I'onr le Merits has been con
ferred upon Prince Henry of Prussia,
commander of the German Baltic fleet.
WHITRIDCE DENIES HE
AGREED TO ARBITRATE
Third Ave. Railway Head, in
Scotland, Replies to P. S. G.
Chairman's Charges.
London, Aug. 4 sib P. M. Freder
ick W. Whltrldge. president of the Third
Avenue Railway Company and the
Union Railway Company of New York,
sent to the Associated Press to-day from
Pitlochry, Scotland, a message denying
that ha ever had agreed to arbitrate dif
ferences with the employees of either
company.
"It Is not the fact" said Mr. Whlt
rldge In his message, "that 1 have at
any time made any such agreement aa
you say the Public Service Commission
charges me with having violated or for
gotten." Chairman Oscar H. Straus of the Pub
lic Service Commission at a hearing Fri
day charged that the breaking of an ar
bitration agreement by President Whlt
rldge was directly responsible for the
car strike.
Htraus said the agreement was en
tered Into In 1913. The men In Yonkers,
where the strike started, were ready to
arbitrate, he said, but when the ques
tion arose It was, found President Whlt
rldge had gone to Europe and In his
absence there was no one authorised to
deal with the situation.
STONE SAYS 12 MEN
CONTROL U.S. ROADS
Defends Rlpht of 400,000 Em
ployees to Strike for an
Eight Hour Day.
The leaders of the englnemen and
trainmen's brotherhoods of American
railroads addressed a crowded mass
meeting of their members In the Amster
dam Opera House last night. These
men In tones tense with the sincerity, of
their purpose declared without qualifica
tion that there will be serious trouble
on this country's railroads unless tin
roads' officials listen to their demands
for an eight hour day.
There was no wild threat, no appeal to
the hysteria of the moment, but Just
concise, clear statement of fact after
fact.
"The one hundred and forty-eight rail
roads of this country." said W. 8. Stone,
president of the Brotherhood of Locomo.
tlve Engineers, "are controlled by sixty-
five directors, they In turn are under
the dominance of sixteen banks nnd
these sixteen banks are In the hands of
three Wall street interests. These men.
constituting perhaps a directing group
of twelve, are ale located Jn ooa short
block In wall street
"These men are dictating the manner
of living to 400,000 employees of the
railroads, and thereby to a certain ex
tent Influence the lives of 7,000,000 pe"
sons dependent upon these railroad men.
'These men have a right to an eight
hour day. They have the right to de
cent living, to spend a reasonable part
of their lives with their families. In
spite of the fact that there Is a law
against working a man on a railroad
any more than sixteen hours a day the
records of the Interstate Commerce
Commission show that there were 69,
000 violations of this law last year.
"That men worked from twenty to
thirty hours Is usual, as ehown by the
iril'IUI. HIM. II IB HUfc Uliunum v to,,.
to have worked as much as forty and I
fifty hours nt n stretch.
"I spent twenty-five years of my llf ,
In a locomotive cnb nnd I know the .
conditions as they exist. To keep men I
on the deck of a locomotive for too long
hours Isn't safe. These men are wrecks
at 45. I knew this because I have seen
millions of dollars of the organisation's
money pass through my hands In one
year to help the men whose Uvea have
been dwarfed to fill the coffers of the
railroads'.
"You hear the rallroada cry in their
publicity campaign that to grant our
demands It will cost them 1100.000.000.
That amount of money will be saved In
the Uvea of men killed and property
wrecked If the men are given decent
hours."
William G. Lee. president of the
I uroinernooa oi jianruaa riiinicu, -
dressing the meeting said that If It was
honorable tho unions would accept arhl-
tration before a strike was called.
Dudley Field Malone aroused entnu-
slasm by n scathing arraignment of tha
railroads and Frank P. Walsh, former
chairman of the Federal Committee on
Industrial Relations, warned tne men
not to accept arbitration by politically
appointed men.
C. M. SCHWAB HOST TO BAND.
Mnslrlans From Bethlehem. Pa,.
Play In Central Park.
Charles M. Schwab provided it special
train for the Bethlehem Steel Corpora
tion band of a hundred musicians, which
arrived In New York from Bethlehem.
Pa..v yesterday morning. The bandsmen
found n steamer chartered to take them
for a rldo around New York harbor and
down the bay. They Inspected the ruins
of Black Tom peninsula and went down
to Coney Island, returning, however, in
time for a concert In Central Park at
4P.M. Ist night the musicians were
Mr. Schwab's guests at a dinner at
Sherry's.
All of the members of the hand, witn
the exception of A. M. Welngartner, the
director, are employed In the steel mills.
They have been playing under the same
director for several years, Tneir 7ew
York concert Is tho big event of their
season and yesterday they gave their
fourth concert here In five years. Many
of the players are also members of the
Symphony Orchestra maintained at
Bethlehem, which gives an annual Bach
festival.
The programme yesterday consisted
principally of military marches, which
were especially well executed, Inter
spersed with selections from Verdi, I-on-cavallo
and Rossini. The fantalsle from
Wagner's "Parsifal" was the sixth num
ber. The programme, was cuniplrlrd
with patriotic, airs,
BARS "CHALLENGE" AS UNFIT.
Prof, Egbert of Colombia) gap
presses Htudent Publication.
Prof. .1. (. Egbert, director of th
summer school at Columbia I'nlverslly,
has ordered nil placards advertising
canllrii'ip, a publication started by v
era! students, removed from the bulletin
boards.
The magazine Is held to b unfit read
ing for th student.
BIG STRIKE END
NEAR; 2 SIDES
GO JFER TO-DAY
X. Y. Railways Oo. and
Union Leaden in Secret
Meetings With Mayor.
TRANSIT DIRECTORS
VOTE THIS MORNING
Concessions on Both Sides
May Lead to Adjustment
on Other Lines.
TRUCE ON THIRD AVE.
IS EXPECTED NEXT
Terms Said to Include tho
Rilit to Organize and
Higher Pay.
Peart? parleys started yesterday by
Mayor Mltchel and Chairman Oscar S.
Straus of the Public Service Commis
sion between President Theodora P.
Hhents of the New York Railways
Company and the leaders of the union
strikers on that system gave promise
last night of settling the strike on
the New York Railways and lending
to the adjustment of the difficulties
between the strikers ana the other
traction companies.
All day conferences were held at the
New York Max Association. Tha
Mayor and Chairman Straus acted aa
intermediaries and did not bring tha
two opposing sides actually face to
face. Nevertheless President Shonts
nml William D. Mahnn, president of
the International carmen's unlonand
William B. Fitzgerald, his assistant,
agreed "on the proposed terms of set
tlement Vte to Be Taken This Mornlaif.
The union men on the New York
Railway and the board of director of.
that company ure to vote this norn
lng on the question of ratifying the
terms agreed on nt the conferences
yesterday. It Is expected that If peucei
is obtained on the New York Railways
there will be n settlement alho on tho
New York nnd Querns County Rail
way, on the Third Avenue Railway
system nnd on the lines of the Rich
mond Light nnd Power Company.
So great wss the success of the Mayor
and Chairman Straus that they were
enabled to get both sldvs to submit their
terms of peace in writing to them. It
was a day of hard work and diplomacy
for both the Mayor and Mr. Straus and
both seemed happy when they separated
last night, Mr. Straus saying heartily
to the Mayor: "Mayor Mltchel, I con
gratulate you upon your work'
(Is, of Tentative Terms,
From an unofficial source some of the
terms of the tentative ,-iRreement reauhed
between the union leaders nnd the repre
sentatives of the railway company wera
learned. It wns said that the company
would agree
First To the right of the carmen to
organize a union.
Second To permit the strikers to
return to work without prejudice.
Third To arratiKe a basis for the
adjustment of future differences be
tween the carmen and the company.
On the other hand, the strikers prom
ised First To waive Ihe recognition of
the Amalgamated Association of Elec
tric nud Street Railway Employees as
such.
Second Not to enforce the policy of
a closed shop.
Hint nf Victory for I'nlon.
Messrs. Mnhon and Kitzxernld In a
Joint statement which they Issued when
they left the conference room In the
Bar Association at 7 :.10 o'clock last
evening, said .
We believe that If the propositions
which h.'ic been agreed to by the
representatives of the company and
ourselves are ratified by the board of
directors and our people they will
establish a very satisfactory under
standing between us.
There was much delight expressed on
the faces of the labor leaders last night.
Neither President Shonts nor James I,.
Quackenbuch, attorney for the railways
company, would make a statement when
they left the conference at fi o'clock.
Mayor Mltchel smiled as he gave out
a statement. In which he said :
A basis of settlement has been
found nnd will he recommended by
President Shonts to his board of di
rectors for ratification and by the
representatives of the employees for
ratification by them.
Strikers litre Opera Una,
The. meetings nf hnih the iMiaril of di
rectors of the New York Railways Com
pany and of the union men are scheduled
for 11 o'clock this morning, ,The union
men immediately hired ihe Central Opera
llutise, at Sixty-seventh street and Third
avenue, for the meetliiK, nnd there a
meeting was held lust night to get the
union men together and to prepare them
for the session this mornlnK.
Despite the armistice that apparently
was established the railway official of
all the lines In Manhattan, The Bronx,
Queens and Richmond Mopped passenger
service at S o'clock last nlcht after a
day of operation In which about 80 per
cent, Kt Ihe normal Sunday service waa
furnlshrd.
The common ground on which ths two
sides met Is Indicated as somewhere be
tween the illiimeti Ically opposing slate
ments made by reprvsrntutltrN of the
company and of the union when the
tight llrst hi'Kan.
PrrMdcnt Mahnn and Orcanlrer Fitz
gerald sild emphatically that they de
manded, Hint of all, iccoKnlllon of thn
union, appointment of a committee of
tallway otllclajs and union men to ad
Just working conditions and nn lncrag
of wages ao that conductor
r
- ' iIT-O
3
;f '
