11,550-Inch Gain
In Paid Advertising by Times-Dispalch
In July, 1916 Over 1915
Uidimonil ffimeS -iBisiraid)
$50 Cash Prize
Awarded in T.-D. Contest to Laurel Street
M. E. Men's Bible Class
66th YEAR
VOLUDIB US
N l'!>I HIOIl 210
RICHMOND, VA., MONDAY, AUGUST 7, 1916. ? EIGHT PAGES.
SKATS"" -RAIN.
PRICE, TWO CENTS.
SIXTY CASES OF
TYPHOID IN CITY
Diagnosis Suspended in Twenty
Others Pending Result of
Further Examination.
RUSH FOR VACCINE VIRUS
Supplies at City and State Health
Departments Are Quickly
Exhausted.
No additional ense of typhoid fever
in Richmond was reported to the
Health Department yesterday. due
principally to the fart that it is not
customary for attending physicians to
communicate with the city officials on
Sunday unless It is a case of emer
gency. However, with about sixty
cases already known to exist, there
are twenty c.-moB In which diagnosis
has been suspended pending ih" re
sults sh.own from examinations of blood
cultures.
H. O Whitehead, of Grant's Drug
Store, Twelfth and Main Streets, was
yesterday removed t<> Stuart Circle
Hospital suffering from 'he disease.
The condition of Thomas P.. McAdarns.
vice-president and cashier of the Mer
? hants' National Bank, also suffering
from typhoid at the same Institution,
was reported xinchanged.
While the condition here is by no
means regarded as epidemic, Dr. K. C.
I.'vy. Chief Health OfTicer. sab! last
? light that It was wise Mr every one
t ? practice individual precaution: the
< ;ty has already exerted every effort
In its power to safeguard th< public
health.
Thousands or people now recognize
'he immunity from typhoid which is
? fforded by inoculation, and for the,
past week there lias been an unpre
cedented demand for antityphoid vac
< ire. To supply this demand ye-stetday
the offices of the Health Department in
the <":ty Hall and those <>f the State
l"ird of Health, 1110 '"apltol Street.
?i>:ained open Hut the number of
'fnple seoklng the serum was far
it renter than the supply, and It was not
? ong before hoth departments had to
'?i-ise their doors, th^ vaccine ticltie ex
hausted. One thousand casc.s of tho
^er iin are to ar r!v,. tbls tnorn
i ng
? VII. Kill! \ VC f INK siK.H I M
"as m:i:\ wniKsPREAn
!>- I.evv said that the call for the
>'e :irr has been widespread through
? t the State, and that the laboratories
wh'-re it is manufactured have almost
? een taxed beyond their capacity. Both
t'i" city anri S*-i/e der.ari tne n ts have
hferi getting their supplies from a firm
in Marietta. I'a , but Dr. Levy now be
lieves that the situation has become
sti h that it will he necessary for him
to rind an additional source r.f supply.
Though shipments were received
dally, the supply last w.-rt, ;v . u ? k
1- taken up each da\ ? -I ? ?? 'horl
? ? s I n e had tbe _? ? |;'v, ,1t, in
< e;,|T a (t on hand
TJie general sour--.- ?,f ? ?-se:. . n
hniond has '.en fv 'id i
l.f.v ;itid !>?- n i: >' T.e-f. ? ., ij.. ,1
? t ? tor. with *?? e cn.npe: atw.n r> f
oth'r health oill lals are sparine no
pair* t- tlnd, if possible, the origin
? ' "e fever. Hour c;i?.,*? have he?n
? -. iv,) to ;t camp of Itichmond pe.,pio,
m h!le sevr;.| nurses have cunt ?*acter!
? f-om contact with patients
Kvery possible safeguard has been
tin own about the cltys water s ip
fly. Three separate analyses are made
ev?ry da*, and all of the tests yes
terday. taken from widespread sources.
Showed the water to he of excellent
rjualjty and absolutely sterile.
"When the source of the diseaso j3
ror lyiown," said r>r. Levy, "the wa.
"r supply Is always under suspicion,
find the- only possible thing to do Is
to sp.fegTtnrd every source" r>r Levy
ha* been given absolute authority
by the Administrative Board over the
Purgation plant at the Settling Basin
rfe ,ns already ordered certain prel
cautions taken, and further to add to
the efficiency of these precautions has
ordered some additional apparatus
Which will be Installed as coo-, ?,? w
nrrivos. * *l
iiloo!) rri.rritKs
Aim iiKi.vt; rrvAMiMiD
When the results are known from
the examinations of the blood cultures
now helng made. Dr. Levy expects that
he will be able more definitely to as
certain the exact conditions obtaining
throughout the city.
?So many blood samples have been
i eceived at the Health Department that
I >r. Lcvj has found it neeosnary to call
in Dr. A. H. Straus, of the Medical
?"ollepo of Virginia, to assist Dr. K r?
firaves, city bacteriologist. Dr. Straus
is also doing the work for the State
Hoard of Health. He was formerly bac
teriologist of the city, resigning to go
to the, college, and was succeeded by
Dr. Graves.
First among the precautions urged
by Dr. Levy is the Inoculation of in
dividuals. It provides Immunity at
minimum cost. Where people cannot
afford to be vaccinated lite serum will
e supplied free and injected at th
Health Department without cost.
< if her precautions urged by Dr. Levy
ire as follows:
itoll all water used for drinking.
i"'it as littlo raw food as possible,
,. t|?at which has been cooked and
? ,ndled by other persons.
Kill the flies, by any means, and
'i icen houses to keep then) out.
Insist upon personal cleanliness on
tlie part of the family rook.
(Jet plenty of sleep, and eat proper
food of the right amount.
Whore thoro Is a yard closet, keep
:t in good repair and flyproof, as ro
(jtiired by the health regulations,
iMMVinUAIi PimGAtfTlOlVS
WILL IXSI'MI-: niMI'MTV
There Is no question, said Dr. Levy,
hut that persons who exercise t l>o
propor care and use precaution can
make thomselves immune to typhoid.
"Until the source of the disease Is
' (Contlnuod on Sccond Pago.)
Gluck Gives Recital
as Her Mother Dies
HA II II AH IIOH, MK., AukuhI <1.?
Willi licr mother, ,>lr?. Sarah t'lrr
nohn, (lend In a Brooklyn honpltul,
Mme. Alma (iluck, of flu* .Mrtropoli
tnn Opera Company. received one of
lite BrwilwiJ ovntlonH of her enrrrr
yenterilny afternoon at n ronrrrl
Striven l?j- her In the Art* lluildliiK
here.
Mme. <?luck ?n* In iKiiormic. of
lier mother'* death until after the
eon cert wan over. While the con
cert wn* in proicrcHd a incnMiKe wn*
received by tlto.ie in charge tellliiK
of the death of lime. Olnck'x
vnotIi?*r.
At ii hurried confcrrncp of infin*
hern of the committee It wan de
cided to allow .Mine. Muck to com
plete the recital before breaking
the new** to her. So nhe Htuig her
"njr ,n,? "'c henrtw of the audience
with never an Intimation of the
new* in More for lier.
The concert over. Mme. I. luck
wn* hurried to the home of .1. |\
lliihfc. where whe wan ntnylnir. She
thouKlit the procedure ktratiKc, hut
-aid nothing until her companion.
Mli?? AdaniK. told lier of the new*.
I hen nlie wan overcome.
Mme. Oluck left at once for her
home In Brooklyn.
STEM EKES BUTTLE
TO THREE SlililNES
Ho (I'ltaliu Kscapes Capture or De
struction by I'so of lis
nefrn.se Guns.
PrnSIKI) FOH TIIHEK HOl'KS
Captain IlelJeves One of I,ittle Vessels
Was Sent to llottom by Well
I laoe<l Sliot?Three American
Passengers on lioartl.
NKW VOUK, August <?.?The Italian
steamer Re d'ftalia. with throe Amer
ican passengers on hoard, was chased
for thro.* hours by three submarines
while in the Mediterranean, -ind was
saved from capture or destruction by
use of defense guns mounted aft. ac
cording to the report of her master.
Captain Arnedeo IMnceti, on the ar
rival of the .^hip here to-day. The
captain said he believed one < f the
submerslbles was hit by a shell
"The third shot, I believe, took ef
feet, as the spout of water that fol
lowed the falling of the shell was
much different." ?>a!d the c.iptjin. "it
was much heavier and apparently im
precnated with smoke or oi! ,\? any
rare, f rmn 'hit time on only t v. ? ' - ri
'? .'fit s W?*!*!? lO l?f? srf Ji
"The ha so inter! until { ?|.(Ut
:? f' f'rr ? toii, 11~ i 1.j '? t -- i r?i vet t! i: >. any
? u?. r ? ??? -ii -unf themsc;vee.
u .. w.vi firing r them, in all fif
tren shots, from <.:ir two three-Inch
ti?iv;. I e i-s After <>nr third sjiot th ? ?
subnia rtnoK evidently tried in u<r in
??? position to launch a torpedo, but
were no doubt afraid to come to the
surface to tret hetter speed because of
our guns. No flap was seen, and th?ie
was no way to determine th-ir na
tionality. hut their wake, as seen
through glasses. indicated that they
were big ones
The three American passengers on
He d'ltalia were I. p. Coster, of Phil
adelphia. a veterinary surgeon; Paul
Edwards, of .Jersey City, and James
H'gglns. of Cincinnati, who had gone
in charee of a consignment of horses.
The shots from the defense guns
were all fired by Ardrenl fgo. an
Italian naval gunnrV assigned to the
! ship, formerly a resident of Newark
N J.
Captain Pinceti said he holds the
rank of lieutenant-commander in the
Italian navy, and has seen war ser
vice.
The Re d'ltalia is a vessel of 6.237
tons, owned by the Italian Uovd Sa
baudo. Prior to the war she was en
gaged In the passenger and freight
trade, but for several months has been
engaged. In handling freight only.
OBJECTS TO WIFE'S DOGS
Flanker Given TJiU n? Iteanon for Tak
ing llnchelor Apartment?M'|fr
O ranted Divorce.
NKW VOUK, August 6.?As an ex
cuse for taking a bachelor'apartment
instead of living with his wife, Rudolph
H. Kahn. of the banking family, com- !
plained to his father-in-law that the I
dogs annoyed him.
"We had three little dogs," said Mrs. i
Kahn's father, Albert H. Gross, a mem- I
her of the Stock Exchange. "I told !
him If the dogs were all that stood j
In the way of his living with his wife, '
I would poison them."
Mrs. Kahn. who is a granddaughter
of James Seligman. and niece of Mrs.
Benjamin Guggenheim, has been grant
ed a divorce, it was learned to-day,
on the recommendation of a referee.
Kahn, who is a cousin of Otto H. Kahn,
Is a banker with establishments In
New York and Paris.
Albert H. Gross. Kahn's father-in
law, said that, failing in his efforts to
reunite the pair, he engaged dctectlvos
to trail I{ahn. Flo alleges that on the
night of February 2f> Kahn was sur
prised at a hotel In company with a
>oung woman whom he had registered
as his wife.
FIRE IN SUN BUILDING
Five PrcxNc* So Rarity Damaged That
Kditlonx Are I'rlnfed In Mull
Oltlce.
NKW YORK. August fi.?Flvo large
presses, on which the New York Sun Is
printed, were so badly damaged to
night by a fire, which started in the
su boo liar of the Sun building, that to
morrow s editions wili be run off on
the presses of the Kvenlng Mall. There
wore no employees in /he prcsu room
when the blaze started.
AUSTRALIANS HOLD I
j GAINSTHEYMADE
Three Desperate Counterattacks
by Germans to Retake Lost
Ground Fail.
CAUGHT BETWEEN TWO FIRES
British Smash Defenses of Enemy
Into Irregular Mounds
of Earth.
Ill l'Ki:i>KI<IC|v IWt.MKH,
WITH Tin: BRITISH ARMY IN TUB
FIELD. Saturday evening, August
I'li'l'r the most merciless concentration
of ,?hcll tire, th" Australians are hold
j ing on to theli ir;?Sjito-day, after their
J advance last iiinht on a two-mile front.
The Germans already have delivered
three powerful c.mterut tacks in ef
forts to retake tlie lost ground and all
failed. In oho eounterattack the Ger
mans cam'- forward, holding up their
hands.
Behind them t Ii?? British guns were
placed In curtains of shell fire through
' which it ? ,h itrpossible for them to
! retreat, while the Australian machine
gun and riMo fire was mowing them
down, and made it hopeless to con
tinue th'ir charge. It was death which
ever way they moved; death if they
: stood still or laid down in the hullcl
I swept space. an<J they surrendered
ratiier than continue their vain effort.
Their last previous attack having
been by the right Rank, the British re- :
newed the-offensive by the left Rank,
after a week of bombing and sapping
Here the task fell to the Australians,
who added another victory to the bril- ?
llant record of The taking of Pozieres. '
In a grilling heat, under a blazing sun,'
they had been working under continual I
shell fire, digging their new trenches
on the left of the break, the British
have already m.vl- by their previous
' attacks.
iihitimi ki:i:i* i w
T0ltv\r?0 <?!-* sillll.l, KIRE
I lii's was fine tf the remaining im
i portant portions of high ground, which
had been so hitterly contested by all
'he k ;n pnivcr nnri cunning and stub
bornness both sides were able to bring
10 bear. I'pon this section of strong
field fortifications with rieep ,i?gouts
i the British kept up n tornado of shell
fire of all calibers They smashed the
defences Into Irregular mounds of
earth, which had no semblance of
trenches.
Meanwhile, not only d)d the German
guns return the compliment of the Aus
tralian front line, hut kept up a cur
tain of fire behind it. The Germans
I manaced to stick in the ruins of their
fortifications, dieting a new rover as
fast as it was destroyed, and evident
ly the German staff had determined
" at this summit ridge must he held
: any cost.
When we sa> tlx.- Australians,
w' ,!n"'t ;rv ?'? 1 ibhle. but for a
; big hite of the cherry." They have
'a1.en tIs? an-: by surprise r?n?l
rome what t-. ?!< t!:. British staff by sur
prise whet: It found the first reports
"rrect, the Australians having taken
every rod of the front which they at
| tacked with their usual swift rush.
Some 60fi prisoners were started ^
?back, but evon after surrender their1
lives were not *af.\ as they had to pass !
through the German curtain <>f shell
!lre behind the Australians, which had
been maintained with increased volume
all day. With this additional front
the British now hold five miles of the
| former German second line.
! The Australians to-day are in siaht
I of Marlin lluycli and Courcellettes. Be
| yond is Thiepval on the summit hill,
j w her a th" British attack on^ July 1,
j north of the Ancre. met its heaviest
| losses and was repulsed by machine
| guns brought out of the dugouts. Now
. this whole section could be put under
! the enfilading fire of the British guns.
"Whenever I look at that new Ger
man salient," said an officer who suf
fered in the Ypres salient, "I feel
avenged. We have never had ? worse
one in a war for positions."
VAI.l K OK I.ATKST liAI.X
ltlCGAltDF.I) AS (iHE.1T
The general opinion is that the value
of this latest gain cannot be underes
timated and the heavy bombardment
proceeding In that neighborhood indi
cates that the Australians will have a
stiff Job holding this new position.
Universal satisfaction is felt among
the British staff over their success in
holding their gains, though the Ger
man artillery concentrates in increas
ing force and arrival of re-enforcements
for the German infantry continue to be
reported.
Never have the operations been more
a battle of guns than this week.
! Throughout the days of the recent pe
riod when the British were not attack
ing with Infantry the shell fire has
been unceasing. German prisoners re
port heavy casualties from the prodi
gal ftre of the British long-range guns
in villages and camps anywhere from
the front line to from five to ten miles
in the rear.
BURGLAR SHOT BY OFFICERS
Brought to liny In Itiimilng ilnttle,
While Fleeing From Vincent
.\Mor'? Futate.
POUGHKIiRPKIE. N. Y., August fi.?
Brought to bay by two bullet wounds
in n running battle with a detective and
a deputy sheriff, while lie was fleeing
from Vincent Astor's estate, Fritz
Cramer, thirty-five years old, lies in a
critical condition at Vassar Hospital
and refuses to give the names of the
other members of the gang of burglars
to which he belongs and which has
I been terrorizing estates of millionaires
north of this town.
Cramer was returning l<> get loot
hidden In woods on the Douglas Mer
rltt estate, opposite- Astor's house,
when discovered and was found in
hushes on the Astor estate exhausted
from loss of blood.
WILL HUGHES TURN
PROHIBITIONIST?;
,
Rumored That He Is Listening
to Arguments by "Nation
Widers."
EVEN THAT CHEERS LEADERS'
They Realize That He Must
Find Some Affirmative
Policies.
[Special t<> The Times*! Mspatch.l .
WASHINGTON, August ?Friends j
in Washington of Charles R. Hughes!
have received the assirance from some j
source thai t li ?? r-andi rlate's suffrage!
pronouncement a few days aco is only
tlie beginning, and that before the.
Western tour is completed the candi- j
date will have outlined a long pro-|
gram of policies which he will cham- !
ploti.
This is cheering news to Republican j
leaders, and they are waiting with)
anxiety for confirmation of the reports
which have come from th<? party head
quarters in New York. These leaders 1
have been politically sick ever since
the Hughes acceptance speech was de- !
livered. They saw in it no hope of j
victory, no clarion call to which the j
country might be expected to respond.;
CONKIXHD TO ASS At i.T
ON TilK ADMIMSTHATIOX
The trouble with this speech was that
it wns confined to an assault upon the
Democratic administration. It ob
viously was designed to destroy confi
dence in President Wilson. It was the
utterance of a wrecker, and not that of
a constructionist. By it the candidate
sought to tear down the work of the
past four years, but it gave the coun
try no indication of Mr. Hughes's abil
ity to rear a structure in the place of
the one he tried to demolish.
l.eading Republicans h^re and else
where realize the fact that Mr. Hughes
??iinnot win the coming tight on a basis
of destruction alone. He must be foi
something and not against everything.
He must stand for certain fixed poli
cies. He must have a program of his
own. one that is more attractive than
that of his opponent, else his campaign
will lose all it* strength. Without this,
many of his friends fear the campaign
simply will collapse.
That is why most Republicans gave !
a lusty shout when the candidate came
out boldly for a constitutional amend- j
men I granting suffrage to women.
Thousands of Air. Hughos's friends are '
against such an amendment. They '
would not lieten to Its supporters at i
the Chicago convention, and It was only j
because of the pressure of political ex
pediency that the Republican conven- !
tion went far enough to adopt tlie '
Democratic States' rights declaration
on the suffrage question.
Rut the Hughes championship of the'
amendment indicated that he stood for
! something. That was the important
thine. Republican campaigners did
:i-?t mind the fact that their candidate i
had repudiated a plank in their plat
form twenty-four hours aft>>r he had
formally accepted the nomination. In!
their joy to find him doing some af-i
t.r-native talking, they were willing to
1 let their platform go to smash if nec
j essary.
no NOT KNOW WHAT
UK HAS l'|? ms SI.KRVK
Just what th.-> Republican nominee
tnaj have up his sleeve along other af- I
Mrmativc lines remains to be seen. |
His friends do not appear to know what I
is to come next, but they seem to be i
| certain that there will be some big i
surprises for the country before the
Hughes's speaking Qpur Is over, sur
prises, they are told, which will he
fully as interesting as that upon the
| question of equal suffrage.
It was mildly intimated to-day that'
the candidate was being pressed to
come out for nation-wide prohibition
and that he was actually listening to
the arguments In favor of such a de
! claration. These arguments. It is said,
deal with the far-reaching possibilities
: of n stand for an amendment to the
; Constitution which would outlaw all
traffic in intoxicating liquor in this
? country.
Many of these possibilities are, of
course, apparent to anybody. For in
stance. such a declaration as is hinted
| out. would do more to wipe out purely
I partisan lines than any that might be
j made by either candidate. If Mr. j
Htighes were to come out for prohlbi- j
tion, he would attract to his standard
: a tremendous following, which is not
! now Interested in his candidacy, but !
. it would, at the same time, array j
| against him powerful forces which j
have always been allied with the Rc-j
publican party.
But it is far too soon to speculate
upon the results of a prohibition dec
laration on the part of the Republi
can nominee. lie may be giving only
I polite attention to the proponents of
! this policy without having the faint
| est notion of going so far afield for
| a new issue. Besides, there is a straight
j Prohibition party ticket already in
the fight, a ticket which gives promise |
I of making itself a real factor in the
, campaign.
| Ml ST OKKKit MOKK TII.W"
SI'IIW II OF ArriOI'TAXCK i
All Democrats and most Republicans j
agree, however, that if Mr. Hughes is |
make an effective campaign, he must'
offer the country far more than he j
offered in his speech of acceptance
and far more than his platform stands I
for. lie cannot win on personality j
alone, nor even on fancied blunders
which the present administration has
made. He must have a definite pro
grom of action that will carry a strong
appeal to the country and for that
reason many of his friends would even
become reconciled to so revolutionary
a move a sa nation-wide prohibition
declaration by their candidate.
I.nM Mountain Kxrurnlon Via
Norfolk mill Western Ilnilway.
will leave Hyrd Ht. SIhUoii, Tuesday. Auk. 15,
promptly at 10:30 A. M. Very tirst equip
ment. Oo with thf> crowd. Phone Madison
487 for further particulars
? T . I "
Basis of Settlement
of Street Car Stride
in New YorJiPleached
Believed To-Day Will See
End of Trouble That
Has Tied Up Sur
face Lines.
XKW YORK, A UK list IS.?Sot tlement
of the street car .strike, which re
sulted .-main to-night in a complete
suspension of surface-cur traffic in all
the boroughs of tireatcr New York ex
cept Brooklyn, is probable to-morrow,
according to :i statement issued l>y
Mayor Mitchcl. The announcement
came after a ?lay of conference initiated
by Mayor Mitehel with tho co-opera
tion of Oscar S. Straus, clmirman of
the Public Service Committee. At those
meetings, It was said, a basis of set
tlement had been reached which would'
be submitted to-morrow to tbe board
of directors of the New- York Railways
Company and to its striking employees. [
MA VOH AND STRAPS
<'OfiK10It WITH LKAIMCR*
Tho Mayor and Chairman Straus :
conferred this morning with William j
D. Mahon, president of the Amalga-j
mated Association of Street and Elec- i
trie Hailway Kmployees, and other
union officials. Mr. Mitehel and Mr. i
Straus then met Theodore P. Shonts. ;
president of the railways company, and !
his attorney. Later the Mayor gave i
out a statement, in which he said:
"We have submitted certain pro
posals for a settlement of the street
railway strike to President Shonts, of
the New York Railways Company, and :
to the representatives of the striking;
employees. A "basis of settlement has |
been found, and will be recommended
by President Shonts to his board of di
rectors for ratification, and by the rep
resentatives f?f the men to the em
ployees for ratification by them.
"The meeting of the board of direc
tors and the meeting of the employees !
will be helii to-morrow, and upon rati- j
ficatlon of the proposed settlement by j
both sides the men will Immediately
return to work."
President Mahon confirmed the an
nouncement of Mayor Mitehel, hut de
clined to discuss the proposed terms of
settlement.
Announcement that a settlement was
in prospect came soon after all the
companies operating cars in Manhat
tan, the Bronx and Queens had ordered
to the barns the cars which had been
operated during the day. No attempt
was made to supply Sunday service on
Staten Island (Richmond).
IMKTIAI, C.'A It K NICK VICT.
MAINTAINED IX ftl\(i l)AY
1'oilce reports indicated that about
45 per cent of the normal Sunday car
service was maintained during the day
by the companies affected. There were
a few minor disturbances.
Prior to the announcement that a
settlement was impending it was said
by strike leaders that headquarters
would be opened to-morrow for reg
istration of employees of the lines who
wished to join the union.
Secretary of Labor Wilson arrived
In the city to-night to confer with
Samuel Oompers. president of the
American Federation of Labor, but he
denied that his visit had any connec
tion with local labor troubles or v\i;h
the threatened nation-wide r.iilroad
strike.
The Interborough Rapid Transit
f'ompnny to-day announced that all
employees of the Interborough. num
bering approximately, will receive $1
per day extra pay until further notice,
beginning to-day Traffic in the sub
way and on the elevated railway lines,
controlled by the Interborough, lias
been heavily increased by the dis
turbed conditions on the surface roads.
STRIKE IS onilKltr.D
ON Pill LA RE LP IIIA LIN ICS
PHILADELPHIA. August 6.?A strike
of motormen and conductors on the
lines of the Philadelphia Rapid Transit
Qompany was ordered by the executive
committee of the local divisions of the j
Ainalgamtcd Association of Street and j
IClectric Railway Employees at a meet-j
ing to-night. Messengers were dls- j
patched to the various car barns noti- )
fying the men to stop work to-mor-j
row morning.
Officials of the company declare that
only 1f. per cent of their men are mem
bers of the union, and say that they
do not anticipate any difficulty in I
operating their lines. l"nion leaders'
claim that at least half of the 1.700 i
men will answer the call.
VOTIC OF K A 11,It OA I) MK.N
wii.i, iiic corxTicn m ti esday j
NEW YORK, August ?*.. officials of:
the four railroad brotherhoods, who j
arc in this city to attend tlx- confer
ence of managers here next Tuesday
and inform them of tire result of the
vote of the -lf?0.000 workers which is re
ported to be overwhelmingly in favor i
of a strike on 225 railroads unless
their demands for an eight-hour day!
and time and a half for overtime are j
granted, declined to-night to make any >
statement that might indicate their fu-I
ture course. |
Timothy Shea, one of the brotherhood I
leaders superintending the count of i
tho ballots, said to-night that the can- i
vass is not yet complete, but the en- j
lire vote will he counted before Tues- I
day.
W. ("J. Lee, president of the Brother-:
hood of Railway Trainmen, said he |
would have no statement to make until
after tho result of tho vote had been
laid before tho railroad officials.
Dudley Field Malotte, collector of the
port; Frank P. Walsh, chairman of the
Federal Commission on Industrial Re
lations, and several officials of the
brotherhoods addressed a mass-meeting
hero to-night in favor of the eight-hour
day. The meeting was attended by
more than 600 chairmen of the adjust
ment committees representing workers
on all the country's railroads. i
Black Tom Again Scene
of Spectacular Blaze
V
.IKII SKI CITY, AllKll?t li,?A uprr
* it ?-ii lit r lire, which t li ?* police he
lie* e uiin Incendiary. broke ont to
night in the railroad yards In the
I luremoiit Meet Ion <if the city, n
quarter of it mile from I ho jktiic of
llir lllack Tom ovplostoii on ln*t
Sunday. About llftceii freight earn,
loaded wlih iiierclinudiMe. wcrr de
stroyed. The liln/.r eonlil Itp. hpi-ii
for tnllrx nroiiiKl. kI\Iiik rise to wild
rumors. One ?:i.h I hut in ore n
plnxt\eH nt Klack Tom were men
aced. nii(I itcrMoiiM 1^ Iiik In tin?
* lelnlty became crrntly alarmed.
DOWNING m HE Ml!
ENTER RACE IN SEVENTH
Admits in .Address at Fisher's llill
That llo Will Prob
ably Hun.
HARRISON'S FRIKXDS WORRIED
Had Counted on Support of Front
Royal Senator?Kccy.cll Denies Re
port That He Has Fledged Sup
port to Any Candidate.
State Senator 11. If. Downing, of
Front Royal, whoso receptive attitude
in the matter was indicated several
days ago by The Times-Dispatch has
advised friends in Shenandoah County
that ho will probahly be a <-aiHliclato
for the Democratic nomination for tho
House of Representatives in the Sev
enth District primary, ordered for Sep
tember 2. Senator Downing attended
n meet in it at Fisher's llill Saturday, and
there made the declaration.
Senator Downline's statement has
added interest to a political situation
of the livliest character. There is no
question that .ludge Harrison's friends
are worried. They had expected that
the Warren County Senator would
support their man, and with his
support they counted on a run
away race. Downing:, as a candidate,
will take more strength from Judge
Harrison than he will from Floyd XV.
Weaver, of Page, or State Senator N\
R. Karl.v, Jr., of Greene.
ki:k/.i:i.i, has iiadr
no iMtotiisr. or sri'i'onT
The situation was further compli
cated yesterday by advices from Har
rison' urg that former State Senator
George IV Keezell, who was reported
as having said that would not he
a candidate himself, hut would support
one of the aspirants already in the
fold, has flatly denied the truth of this
report. He has made no statement of
his Intention to support any particular
candidate, said Mr. IseezoU, nor has he
authorised any statement regarding the
probability of his entering the con
test himself.
That Judge Harrison will have op
position of the most active kind Is
taken for granted. Senator Karly, Mr.
Weaver and Senator Downing spent
Friday in Harrisonburg in consulta
tion with prominent party men in tho
Rockingham metropolis.
Several inquiries have boon received
by Attorney-GeneraI Pollard from in
dividuals in the Seventh District ques
tioning the legality of the committee's
action in fixing the date of the. pri
mary for September 2. and requiring
tho expenses of the election to bo
borne by tho candidates. No official
opinion has been prepared oy the At
torney-General's office in reply, for the
reason that rulings are furnished only
to the constituted authorities or some
public officer.
DISTII1CT I OMMl'ITl:K
A (TV. I) WITHIN* ITS HltaiTS
A careful examination of tho pri
mary law, however, indicates that the
district committee acted fully within
its rights. The law makes special pro
vision for filling vacancies created by
the refusal of the party candidates to
accept nomination. This is the case
in the Seventh District, where Repre
sentative Hay, although duly declared
the party nominee, has notified Gover
nor Stuart that h? will resign on Sep
tember 30. Practically unlimited
choice is given tiie local committees,
also, in this matter of providing for
tho manner of election for an unex
pired term. Acting under these clauses
of the primary law. tho Seventh Dis
trict Committee lias made full pro
vision for taking care of the situation
created l>y Representative Hay's res
ignation, and the regularity of tho
special primary will hardly be called
into question.
While the legality of the special pri
mary is not seriously questioned,
there lias developed considerable senti
ment against it on the scorer of expense,
living called for a date other than the
date of the regular primary, all iht?
expenses lucid.-n; to holding it must
be borne i>;. ? i< . indi.latfs" themselves.
cost of nt m \ in
lti;vivi;s CONVENTION' 'I'A lilv
With only three or four candidates in
the Held the expense apportionment
would bo a considerable itom since It
is estimated that it will cost between
4l,f?"o and $2,000 to hold the primary.
\ nomination by convention would
avoid both this expense and the cost
of i Hiking a thorongh-goiug- canvass.
Should opposition to tho primary gain
ground In tho next fow days It Is not
(Continued ~on "Secondrng c7 j~
LINE IS BROKEN i
ey SLAV FORCES
Six Villages Captured and
More Than 5,000 Pris
oners Taken.
NOW FIRMLY ESTABLISHED
ON LEFT BANK OF SERETH
Berlin War Office Admits That
Its Troops Are Driven
Back.
TV It KS ITT TO FLIGHT
British 1'uiMiliig Army Which At
tacked Near Suez
Canal.
LONDON. A us list n?in Northern
Ga licia. the Russia ns have struck" ;w-.
other hard blow at th?> Teutonic alfi^a *V.
and occupied alone the Sereth and Gra-1 \
berka Rivers, south of Rrodv. six vil
lages and the entire ridge nn tfwhich
they are located
Furious fighting marked the en
gagement. the Russians being forced
in the villages to drive their adver
saries from house to house. The Aus
tro-German forcos, at last reports, were
bombarding violently their lost posi
tions.
In the fighting the Russians captured
a regimental commander and 110 other
officers and more than 5,500 men and \
also took numerous machine guns and
bomb throwers.
Berlin admits that the Russians have
gained the left bank of the Sereth
River, hut asserts that the Germans
have made progress against the French
in the Chapltre wood near Verdun and
In mining operations against them in
the Argonne; that the Russians have
been driven from positions along the
Stokhod River south of Zarecze, and
that in the Carpathians the Germans
are still operating successfully.
I.Kit II) KIltK IS I SKI)
IN ATTACK OX IlRtTISH
Slight advances for the Rritlsh at
High wood and east of Pozieros, on the
Sotume front,, ajid bv the French south
west of- Ksfrees, south of the Somme
and to'the northwest of the Thlftumont
work, near Verdun, are recorded in the
British and French communications. In
the sector northwest of Pozleres. t ??.
Germans, in an attack in which liquid
fire was used, forced the British back
along one of their trenches, hut later
the British regained the ground lost.
The Germans are heavily bombard
ing the Thiauinont work and Fleury
positions of the French.
In Asiatic Turkey the Russians re
port the capture at various places of
new Turkish positions. In the Kialkit
Cliia River basin positions protected by
fi*o lines of trench.?.-, were wrest-id
from the Turks while south of Krzin
gan and west of the village of Ognut,
additional trenches and two heights
were captured.
In the region of Mush and Bitlis the
Turks have assumed the offensive, put
I'etrograd says they are being held by
tiie Russian fire.
ti itt > kohc<: i ro ri.i>.
I.OSI\<; MAW PltlSO.NKHS
The 14,000 Turkish troops, operating
on a seven-mile front from the east
against the Suez Canal, also have met
with defeat at the hands of the British
and have been forced to flee, leaving
more than 2,.r>.10 prisoners behind them,
including some Germans. In addition
the Ottomans suffered heavy casual"
ties. Australian and New Zealand
troops took an important part In the
fighting.
jn the Aurtro-Italian ther.tc the
Austrians are heavily bombarding the
Italian line between the Adiage and
upper Ison/ti Rivers and the Pasublo
area, while in the Sugana Valley and
the upper Cordevole Valley they launch
ed infantry attacks against the Ital
ians. These attacks, according to Rome,
were repulsed.
t nofficlal advices from Saloniki say
the Serbians have taken from the Bul
garians the village of Remli. on the
Macedonian front.
Tl>:i TOMC It ICS I ST A \ < i:
IS ItHOIvKN n\ IttSSIAXS
PKTROiiHAI). August ti (via Lon
don*.?Russian attacks along tho
Seretli and Grabetka Rivers, south of
Brodv, in Northern Galicia, broke tho
Teutonic resistance, and resulted in the
capture by the Russians of six vil
lages and the entire ridge along which
they are located, according to a War
? 'llice announcement to-day. More than
3,000 prisoners were taken.
The statement reads:
"Western front: South of Brody, on
the banks of the rivers Graberka and
Screth, obstinate fighting continued
during the whole day for the possession
of the villages and heights. Tho
enemy offered determined resistance
and made several counterattacks. fn
the streets of the villages fierce fight
ing took place, and it was necessary
;o urive the enemy out from house to
house.
"< H't attack was crowned with suc
cess, all counterattacks of the enemy
being repelled and his resistance
bioken. * mii troops have taken the vil
lages <>i Svyiiu. Katischc. Tchistopady,
Meid'/.igory. Gnidava and Zalvaoce and
t It e entire idge of heights between
them. <>ne of our gallant Cossack regi
i""nts^made a cavalry attack on an
??nciny battery to the southwest.
"in the region of D.ora. Yarernche
and Tablonitsa on the River Pruth, to
the south of iJelatyn, the nnemv took
*h? offensive, but was brought to a
standstill by our fire.
"Caucasus front: In ihe basin Ot
the River Klalkit-Chla our troops con
tinued their offensive and wrested new
