fJSMMjjmff'
M T -W -v6--WMftT'
'FINANCIAL EDITION
NIGHT
EXTRA
VOL. II. NO. 280
ibimttn
NIGHT
EXTRA
PBIC23 ON32 CWT
PHILADELPHIA, MONDAY, AUGUST 7, 19 1G.
CormonT, 101S, at Tni Pdbmo Lxrosi CouriKr.
NEW TRAFFIC RULES SWEEP BROAD STREET BARE OF PARKED AUTOS
WjP'pWlj'
STRIKE ORDER
HEEDED BY 125;
CARS UNHALTED
More Than 6000 Trolleymen
Stick to Jobs With
P. R. T. '
M1JB,ilWpW WMMIWiWill HWWIW W w w BM ,, , ,,WMW II
V
xt
n.
On the loft is Broad street from
ONE MORE DEATH,
TWO NEW CASES
OF BABY PLAGUE
Latest Paralysis Victims in
43d Ward Systematizing
Keports
FOODSTUFF "CLEAN - UP"
Infantile Paralysis
in Last 24 Hours
New cases in Philadelphia....
Deaths in Philadelphia
Total cases since January 1...
Total deaths since January 1 . .
New cases in Pennsylvania. . . .
New cases in New York 145
Deaths in New York 44
Total cases in New York 51C8
Total deaths in New York 1143
State quarantine trocs into effect
at midnight tonight.
Moving-picture theaters closed to
children under 1C years old.
Three deaths and two new cases of
Infantile paralysis have been reported to the
Bureau of Health In the last 2 1 hours. The
third death was reported this morning.
Edward Condon. 10 years old, 2605 Hast
Auburn street, died at his home without
medical attention. Tho health department
knew nothing of the case until the death
report came In.
The new cases were those of Charles Cook,
i months old, 8917 Frankford avenue. Forty
flrsfWard, and Louis Drlpps, 7 months old,
H Reese street, Forty-thlrd Ward.
SYSTEMATIZING REPORTS. S
Efforts are being made at the Bureau of
Health In City Hall to tabulate the new
.cases and tho deaths as they are reported.
There Is said to have been so much care
lessness on the part of Inspectors and In
vestigators sending In reports, and failures
en the part of physicians to obtain the cor
rect names and addresses of the victims
that the records ara Incomplete and In
Mcurate. Names are being duplicated, It
is Mid, and addresses of victims Inter
changed In the records, so that accurate
Information on tho situation In tha city Is
tJlfflcult to obtain.
Olrs employed in Medical Inspector
cairns office to do this work, it Is said.
re making no efforts to verify the names
w addresses.
ny calls for Information about health
Contlnoed en Pare Two, Qolumo your
T THE WEATHER
. Bfa n a new discovery In solar physics
7 Willis L. Moore and W, F. Carothers.
ounday, August 13, to Friday, August 18
7 1? week w"1 nave taiT weather except
tin close. It will open wth moderate
"mperatures, rising, and by rold.week
maxima will be at 90 and minima at 70
ttneraly,
Saturday, August, J9 The week will
.ciose with showers and with cooler tem
peratures. General weather movements due.
' u0' movement due to develop In north-
United states August 13 will bo a
moderate movement, preceded by showers
' U tho Narthuutst nnrt hplnirlnir sliirhrlv
If J0?1; temperatures along ' the Canadian
ft' border States.
m lher C00' movement due August 17
win btt an average, movement, -preceded by
!jnrl showers In all States, and bringing
to 20 degrees cooler weather generally.
GOVERNMENT FORECAST
For Philadelphia and vicinity Gen
tP?Uv fair tonight; Tuesday unsettled,
Ultth VOAaihlu ahninp.ra? rnutinunil iMrm.
M" high humidity; light southerly
I "''Kid,
rirviiTir nv niv.
"2 -03 a m.JMooa rUes -11 18 o m.
w i . 7j)8pm.Mooo sauUn. .W(o.
DEL.WAKK BlVEB TIDJ5 CHANGES.
'&!? atr 'ino-iHish waur gas p.m.
;"w wer 2loa.si.llow wtr 2-49 p-o.
TEMPKItATI'nK AT KAOII HOUH.
i 3ET3t ioi lit i2i it" a f ' 4i ST"!'
iLLMlSbi UOI 601 Oil 92V
Locust to City" Hall as it appenred before the new ordinance wont into effect.
as it appeared today, when the
NEW YORK CARMEN
ACCEPT PEACE TERMS;
BIG STRIKE NEARS END
Mayor Mitchel and Public Serv
ice Commissioner Oscar S.
Straus Win Their
Acquiescence
COMPANY DEFERS ACTION
NEW YORK, Aug. 7. Tha striking em
ployes of tho Now York City Tlatlways
Company' at a meeting this afternoon In
dorsed tho agreement which was brought
about through the efforts of Mayor Mitchel
and Public Service Commissioner Oscar S,
StrauES. William D. Mahon, president of
the Electric Railway Men, Immediately left
tho meeting placo to notify Mayor Mitchel
of tho action taken.
Up to that time tho meeting of tho di
rectors of the company which was called
to accept or reject tho agreement had not
reported taking any decisive action.
The general principles of tho agreement,
It waB reported, are these:
First. The right of the employes to
organize.
Second. A reasonable wage Increase.
Third. Employes shall not be dis
missed for belonging to the union, and
all strikers shall be accorded the same
treatmont they got before the strike
began.
Fourth, There Is to be no formal
recognition of the union ns such, nor
nny "slgned-up" agreement between tha
union nnd employers for the present.
Both Theodora P. Shonts, president of the
Now York Railways Company, nnd W. D.
Mahon, president of the union, expressed
satisfaction over the terms of the agree
ment. Tha understanding between tho company
and the men was brought about through
the efforts of Mayor Mitchel and Oscar
Straus, of the Public Service Commission.
While the basis of settlement affects only
the New York Railways Company, It Is
belloved that it will be accepted by the
Third Avenue Railways Company ns well.
The area covered by the agreement lies In
the borough of Manhattan and does not
extend to the borough of Richmond (Staten
Island), tho borough of the Bronx nor the
borough of Queens,
Secretary Wilson, of the Federal Pcpart
ment of tabor, who came here from Wash
ington to help bring about an adjustment,
arrived too late to be of any material as
sistance. Figures compiled by the police Bhow that
there was a slight Improvement in the
surface car service on Sunday. There, .has
also been a marked absence of disorderly
scenes.
Only about half a dozen arrests have
been mada in the city since the strike be-
gan.
The tie-up of surface lines led to an ex
tra rush of passenger traffic In the sub.
way.
Following a conference between Man
ager Frank Hedley, of, the Intcrboough
Rapid Transit, Company, and Mr. Shonts,
the following notice was posted in the
subway:
"Trafflo in the subway and on the ele
vated lines being temporarily Increased by
disturbed surface railway conditions,
thereby putting extra burdens on tha em
ployes, it is announced that all Interbor
ough employes, numbering 13.00U? and in
cluding every department, will receive 31
per day extra pay until further notice.
Releasing Kite, Boy Falla Off Hoof
Raymond Fommer, 10 years old, of 6149
Vine street. Is lying in the West Philadel
phia Homeopathic Hospital suffering from
a broken leg and severe sontuslons received
early this rooming as the result of a fall
from a roof near bis homo. Young Fommer
climbed, to Urt roof to release a kite he
had been flying before it got entangled In
some molding While attempting to reach
tha kite h stepped off Um edge of the roof
and fell to the pavement below. A passerby I
rjearo, e vn w w wj w vvuuuuwk
tha hospital wafeulancai " ,
no-parking rule became effective.
RISING TEMPERATURE
KILLS ONE; MANY ARE
PROSTRATED BY HEAT
Philadelphia Man First Victim
of New Hot Wave May
Break Record
92 DEGREES AT 3 O'CLOCK
Today's Temperatures
Today Yesterday
Midnight 79 74
1 a. m 78 75
2 a. m 77 75
8 a. m 7C 75
4 a. m 76 75
5 a. m 70 75
6 n. m 77 76
7 a. m 78 . 76
8 a. m 78 76
9 a. m 81 76
10 a. m 84 81
11 a. m 88 " 86
Noon 90 88
1 p. m 90 91
2 p. m 91 92
3 p. m 92 92
4 p. m 91
5 p. m 90
Humidity, 8 a. m 92 96
One death and a number of heat prostra
tions were reported up to noon today as the
result of tho rapidly rising temperature,
which promises to surpass by many degrees
the record of yesterday. The .Weather Bu
reau announced that the day would In all
probability prova a record breaker.
The first victim was Frank Donahue,
37 years old, of 2 $74 Martha street. lie
was stricken whlla working about his homo
this morning. A nearby physician, who was
summoned to the house, found the man
beyond medical aid.
A number of prostrations were reported
this morning. They are Alexander John
Bon, 32 years, sailor from the steamship
Scactanlan, anchored off Chestnut street
wharf, Pennsylvania Hospital ; Solomon
Diamond, 60 years, of 625 South Second
street, Pennsylvania Hospital, and Fred
erick Porter, 68 years, of 627 South Second
street.
David Washington, of 1127 Balnbrfdge
street, this city, was removed from the
Camden Coke Works to the West Jersey
Homeopathic Hospital suffering from pros
tration today.
The hourly rise In temperature, which
shows an increase of several points over
yesterday, has caused the local weather
man to admit that today would be a
'scorcher," and that It would bo well to
"make the best of It." Tho excessive hu
midity, recorded at 93, coupled with tho
high temperature, answers for the Intense
suffering.
A bulletin from Washington, D. C, reads,
"temporary relief from tho excessive heat
wave that has again come oyer the Middle
West was promised by tho United States
weather forepasler today. Showers late to
day or tomorrow will force the temperature
down slightly In ail the lower lake region
States. By Wednesday, however, the show,
era will cease and temperatures will crawl
higher." It is hoped that the predicted
relief will apply to the eastern States.
Heat caused two deaths here yesterday,
which, Jy the way, was not at all the hot
test of the year. It was only the third
hottest,
James Taylor, t8, 1711 Lee street, died
In tha Philadelphia Hospital, and Peter Ur
ban, an 18-month-old baby, died at his
home, 635 Dickinson street.
Two deaths resulting from the heat yes
terday were reported ot the Coroner of
Camden County. They are George Smith,
18 years, of 22 Haddon avenue, Oaklyn, N
Continued on race Two. Column six
IPs Not Too Late
TO BEGIN
"THE PRIVATE WAR"
A thrilling romance by Lqyls Joseph
Vance, author of "Tha Brass BowL"
Tha second Installment 1 on Page 9
of this Issue, and a comprehensive, synop
sis enables you to pick up the story
without tha loss of an essential detail.
On the right is the same stretch
ALLIES UNSHAKEN
IN WEST AS SLAVS
GAIN IN GALICIA
Germans Beaten ' Back at
Verdun and on Somme
Front
STIFFEN STOKHOD LINE
High Points in War
Situation at Glance
First. "Went front German at
tacks beaten back at Verdun and
on Somme line. Berlin, however, re
ported recapture of ground north of
I'ozieres and the repulse of French
attacks.
Second. East front Russians
gain eight villages in drive on Lent
berg. Repulse Austrian attacks in
Carpathians. Ilindcnburg preparing
offensive on Riga-Dvin.sk line. Teu
tons stiffen resistance on Stokhod
front.
Third. Suez front British rout
Turkish forces in attack on Suez
CanaL
LONDON, Aug. 7.
Thero was another night of violent right
ing north of Pozlercs, along the rldgo which
the British captured from tho Germans last
Friday night.
Tho British War Office. In an omclal re
port Issued early this afternoon, btuted
that the Germans renewed their counter
attacks against tho British positions, but
that all were repulsed.
Tho situation on tho section of the Somme
front held by the British Is unchanged, It
was said.
Tho ground captured by the English nnd
Australian Boldlers along tha German 'sec
ond line, between the Ancre nnd Somme
Rivers, has been strorjgly consolidated and
fully organized nnd the German attacks, al
though driven hoiye' viciously, broke to
pieces against the .British defense. In some
of the attacks Germans used liquid fire,
but the UrltUli soldiers, although unused
to this form of weapon, Btood their ground
like veterans.
The text of the official report follows:
The situation Is unchanged There
has been strong artillery activity on the
part of the enemy between the Ancre
and Somme, both against our lines and
the areas In tha rear of the front.
Small counter-attacks east of Pozleres'
were all repulsed with loss to the en
emy. We retained tha ground won
yesterday. T
During the night we successfully raid
ed the enemy's trenches east of Neu
Vitlo St Vaast.
Southeast of Bols Grenser an enemy
raiding party attempted to reach our
lines, but was driven back with loss.
TEUTONS BATTLE IN VAIN
TO RETAKE AROUND LOST
TO FRENCH AT VERDUN
PARIS, Aug 7.
Another powerful effort was made by
the Germans last night to win back the
ground they had lost to the French on the
Verdun front, but all of the attacks were
repulsed, the French War Office announced
n Its official communique today.
The Germans assaulted French positions
at Thlaumont work, in Vaux Wood and
in Chapltre Wood, but were unable to gain
any advantage.
There was violent artillery activity north
of the Somme Illver and in the sector of
Chaulnes. Cannonading around Chaulnes
indicates that tha area of fighting on the
Somme front is being extended southward.
BRITISH NAVAL FORCES TAKE
COAST TOWN IN EAST GERMAN
AFRICA; ENEMY PURSUED
LONDON. Aug. 7 The War Office an
nounced today that Port Sadanl, in German
East Africa, has been captured by the Brit
ish. The statement follows:
General Smuts, commander of the
British forces In East Africa, reports
that Port Sadanl has been occupied by
naal forces Bine August 1 after slight
opposition. ' Other naval operations are
,
jCeatisiMd a Fact Two, Column six
QUICK NEWS
NATIONAt LEAGUE
CINCINNATI O 0 0 0,00
BOSTON, 1st g O O 1 O 1 O
Tonty nnrl Wingo: Barnes and Blackburn.
RESULT OF TENNIS PLAY AT CYNWYD
Shighs, second round 3uiton Kobeito, Llar.crch, defentM H. T.
Montgomery, Oak Lane, by default. Third lound O. B. Emerson,
Orange, N. J., defeated S. B. Wilson, Cymvyd, 0-3, 6-4j J P. Clothier,
Lansdowne, defeated Burton Roberts, Llonerch, 6-4, 8-10, 10-8j Carl
Fisher, Cynwyd, defeated Roy March, Cynwyd, 0-2, 0-1; Howard
Shiel, Cnrrolllan, defeated Sam Pennock, Jr., Lansdowne, 8-G, 0-4; 3.
M. Vanneman, Jr., Cynwyd, defeated Nelson Bllllngton, Haddonfield,
0-3, 0-3. Doubles, first round March and Childs defeated Rowland
and McElroy, 0-3, 6-1; Valentino and Valentine defeated Hutchlna
and Vanneman, 1-0, 0-4, 0-1,
APPAM VALUED AT $1,250,000
NORFOLK, Va., Aur;- 7. The value of tho Appam, the British
merchantman captured by the Germans and brought in here ns a prize
of wnr, has been fixed at $1,250,000 by a special commission ap
pointed by the United States District Court. Bond in that sum will
bo required of the British Government if the local court decides to
turn the vessel over to its British owners, pending tho German Em
bassy's appeal to the United States Supreme Court.
U-BOATS SINK
BARCELONA, Spain, Aug. 7, Tho
been sunk without warning. Her officers
Mount Konlston's captaln'sald tho samo
whose identity ho could not mako out.
LONDON, Aug, 7. Tho fishing smack Loch Lomond has been sunk by a Ger
man submarine in tho North Sea. Tho crow wan saved.
SENATORS SEEK TEST VOTE ON SUFFRAGE BILL
WASHINGTON, Aug. 7. Senators Shafroth and Thomas today began efforts
to have the Susan 13. Anthony suffrage amendment brought up for a vote without
debate. Woman stiffrago leadern In "Washington are opposing a test vote at this
time.
MEXICANS RELEASE BRITON AND AMERICAN
WASHINGTON, Aug. 7. Consul General Rodgers In Mexico City today reported
to tho Stato Department that tho Mexican Government had released the British
subject Fulton, president of an electric llsht company of Mexico City. Tho release
followed a protest by this Government. Rodgers tepoited that Fulton bad been
arrested on charges of selling dynamite to Zapatista leaders. He Is expected to be
deported. II. A. Dunn, tho American arrested on charses of Inciting a railroad
strike, probably will be released nnd deported, according to tho Consul's report.
FRENCH SOCIALISTS TURN BACKS ON GERMANS
PARIS, Aug. 7. By a voto of 182 J to 1075, tho French Congress of Socialists
today decided not to resume relations with tho German Socialists. The voto was
taken after seveial speakers had denounced Germany's alleged policies of "fright-fulness."
POLICEMAN GIVES BLOOD TO WOUNDED COMRADE
Twenty-two ounces of blood taken from tho veins of Tollceman Ernest Wuty, ot
tho Front and Westmoreland streets station, and Injected into tho body of Polcemnn
George Kllno, of the samo district, may save tho life of the latter, who was accl
dently shot when Auty's revolver discharged while ho was cleaning it. Tho bullet
severed a vein in Kline's neck.
PHILADELPHIA-BOUND SCHOONER IN DISTRESS
NANTUCKET, Mass., Aug. 7 Tho schooner Frederic A. DiifTBan, after crossing
tho Atlantic from Cardiff, Wales, was In distress off this Island last night with the
gunboat Marietta btandliiR by. The coast guard cutter Gresham was proceeding to
the schooner's assistance nnd expected to take her In tow. Commander Scott, of
tho Marietta, said the schooner was half full of water.
H. C. BROWNE, WILMINGTON EX-POSTMASTER, SUICIDE
DENVER, Col., Aug. 7. Hugh C. Browne, ex-postmaster of Wilmington, Del.,
ended his life on tho summit of Lookout Mountain, near Golden, Financial worriep
were he cause. On receipt of a telegram from his mother, tho body was shipped
to Mlddletown, Del., for burial. Browne was a mining promoter and had been the
former manager of Alfred I. du Font's uranium mines in Gilpin County,
UNSIGHTLY AD BANNERS MUST GO, ROBINSON SAYS
Follcemen have been Instructed to notify all persons who display unsightly and
dangerous advertising banners in front of buildings or across streets between two
buildings that they aro violating a city ordinance. Superintendent Robinson will
enforce this ordinance by Insisting that the signs be removed, he has announced.
SHIP'S OFFICER BELIEVES HE SAW BREMEN OFF BOSTON
BOSTON, Aug. 7. Chief Officer Peterson, of the steamship Gulfaxe, in today
from Frontera, Mexico, reported that at 3 a. m. today he and his pilot sighted off
Boston Light a long, black shape, low in tha water, which' they believed was the
submarine Bremen.
WIMBORNE AGAIN NAMED IRISH VICEROY
LONDON, Aug. 7, Lord Wimborne has been reappointed Lord Lieutenant of
Ireland. (Lord Wimborne resigned as Irish viceroy soon after Augustine Birrell,
Secretary for Ireland, had placed h.'s resignation In Premier Asqulth's hands, these
resignations being due to the Sinn Fein revolt and criticism ot Mr, Blrren and Lord
Wimborne for not having moved to anticipate tne reoeiuon.j
"DOG DAYS" BULLETIN URGES CAUTERIZING OF BITES
A "dog days" bulletin urging persons bitten by dogs to have their wounds
cauterized at once has been Issued by Director of Health Krusen. It the dog is found
to have rabies the Pasteur treatmont should be administered. The bulletin points
out that there is no cure for rabies, once it develops in man, and for thatyxeason
this treatment should bo given in suspicious or doubtful cases. f
CHILD EATS POISON TABLETS; DIES
Poison tablets, which fell from a bureau to tho floor of its parents' bedroom
today caused the death of Ida Thomas. IS months old, of SQJT D street. Fox Chase.
The mother, leaving the child In bed, w&s working downstairs when tho InfanfB
screams summoned her to the second floor She round the baby la convulsions,
while becida it on the floor lay a partly emptied box of tha poisonous tablets. Dr.
F, c,-mery,-oX pxford plk,e, was, summoned, but thq child died wittda a half tcurj
BRITISH SHIPS '.
British steamship Mount Konlston has
and 25 of hor crew were rescued. Tho
submarine also sank another steamship
MOVE CALLED FAILURE '
Union Leaders, However,
Walk-out of- Employes
Will Be "Gradual"
Say
Early Developments
of Trolley Strike
1
rnHREE nrrcsta, but virtually no
- disorder today,
Thomas E. Mitten, president of
Philadelphia Rapid Transit Com
pany, announces that every car is
running, mnnncd by .regular em
ployes, j
Officials of Carmen's Union deny
this nnd say only half of tho regu
lar runs from the Eleventh and Lu
zerne streets car barn alono were
taken out.
Striking motorman says that only
10 per cent of union men have an
swered call to walk out. ,
Union leaders say that 60 per cent
of 6200 P. R. T. employs belong to
union; transit officials say that
union has only 400 members, of
whom only half have paid their dues
in full.
The trifling importance attached
to strike in the stock market indi
cated this afternoon when P. R. T.
stock certificates jumped to 18
from 18, the figure the market
opened at this morning.
President Flynn, of union, and P.
J. Shea, organizer, say strike is "a
gradual movement," which will re
quire several days to grow to full
proportions.
Police Department announces that
125 was the highest estimate of tho
number of men out at noon.
Reports received by the police department
from all sections of the city this afternoon
gave 125 as the maximum number, of xao
tormen nnd conductors who, up until 1
o'colpk. had obeyed the union prder te
strike.
As the total number of carmen In the)
employ of the Philadelphia Rapid Transit
Company Is approximately 6200, tho police
officials made It plain that they considered
the strike thus far a failure.
Therflgurea of the police department were)
virtually confirmed by Thomas E. Mitten,
president of tho transit company, when
nsked how many men he thought were out.
Ho replied:
"If I said 1B0, I would be exaggerating.
Mr. Mitten shortly before noon began a
tour of tho various carbarns In the c:ty to
see conditions first-hand nnd to map out
the company's course of action. At sev
eral of the barns he made short addresses,
to tho men.
At tho Eleventh and Luzern streets
barn, where more than 1100 men are ern
ployed, Mr. Mitten was Introduced by M,
L, Gorden, division superintendent, to a,
group of about SO motormen and conductors
who wore waiting to go out on their runs.
MITTEN ADDRESSES MEN,
Tho president of the Transit Company
remarked that this was the first time h
had ever addressed any of his men person
ally. He spoke only a few minutes, thank
ing them for their loyalty to the com
pany, lie made no direct promise of an
Increase In wages, but he assured the men
that they would gain more by working
alongwlth the Co-operative Plan than they
ever would by striking.
The strike which was officially called for
3:30 o'clock this morning by President H. B
Flynn. of Division 477, Amalgamated As
sociation of Street and Electric Railway
Employes, up to the present time has
resulted In little besides verbal claims of the
union leaders regarding the scops, of the
movement and counter-claims of the Phila
delphia Rapid Transit Company officials
minimizing the Importance of the walkout.
Thomas K. Mitten, president of the Tran
sit Company, in an interview announced
that every car on the company's system
was running on scheduled time, manned b--'t
the regular employes. Mr. Mitt-"
to make any estimate of the, nuaJKl!.! tszn
out, but remarked that the company was
swamped with applications for positions. He
added that the public need not worry.
DENY STRIKE FAILURE.
Mr. Flynn, while stoutly-denying that tha
strike was a failure, has thus far refused to
give out any figures as to the number of
men who responded to his call. He pre
dicted that the number would be greatly'
Increased this afternoon, when the cxe.tra
change shifts. In this contention he was
supported by P. J. Shea, a national organ
izer, who has been working, among tb
union men here,
Mr. Shea characterized the strike as "a.
gradual movement," the full effect
which wll not be realized for two 9? tbre
days. The claim of Mr. Mitten that all tlw
cars went out on schedule time was tiatly
denied by Shea, who referred to a. report
made to him by John JJugan, patnmUteemui
from tha Eleventh and Luzerne street fr
barn. Dugan reported tlia t on! bajf of th
runs were taken there this, morjtliig
COUNTER-CLAIMS,
Ona of the striking motormen, whet 1m
been running b, ear on RtmU 31. ! tisMt
only 10 per' cent t the union sacu h4 -sponded
to the call thus far. Wfeat this
number might mean t d ifcwJt to iwttnmt
on soyKiAt ft tb vialy AivwMM Htm
The vntoa utttcUL way ihu gjwmt m
ceat of the S JV9 Mtptor et & ommM
w wir mtmmm&sn). mmu tk
oamm psH gntfrwi mm mt
W
-tinm-
