WEATHER
fABTIT IIOIPT 4\P UUHI-HVUi
ssfhSM TO-r?\*i \>n rrtonAni.T to
J_ORRO*V I.IC.HT SO'TN W.YDr*.
riill IUp?rt oa r_?* ?
IVTcwiSlork
Vt*__^^ r;rcf *-, Tr
ffiribtmc
CIRCULATION
Over 100,000 Daily
Net Paid, Non-Returnable
First to Last ? the Truth: News ? Editorials ? Advertisements
Voi
IAWI No. 25,467
f'opTTlaht 1BIB?
Thr Trihune \**'n 1
MONDAY. AUGUST 7, 1016.
? ? *
ONE CENT
Ia ira? T??k Cltr, Jr#?ar*.
Jeraar Cltj and Habakaa.
Traction Strike Near Settlement;
Both Sides Vote on Terms To-day
RUSSIANS CUT
SERETH LINES
BELOW BRODY
Open Way for Direct
Drive Against
Lemberg.
AGAIN THREATEN
BOTHMER'S ARMY
Capture 5.500 Men?Stok?
hod Front Stiffened by
Mindenburg.
Lond-n. Aug. fi,?Following up
their sharp hlows of yesterday and
Kriday against the Austrian lines
south of Brody, along the rivers
t,rar, -rrerh. the Russians
have eompletelj broken the Teutons'
. pt in six more vil
an entire ridge of command
ing beifhta and 8,000 more prison
In the two day?' battle, which
hi.? given General Sakharoff'a troops
<ucce?ses vitally important to their
?? ajramst Lemberg and von
Bothmer'? flank along the Stripa.
more than M00 of the enemy's sol
diera have been made prisoner.
That the Russian rlaims of marked
p>-o_re-;? in this region are not un
founded ia proved by the German
ffi.ial admtssion to-night that the
? baak of the Sereth has been
Berlin also records "advanced
?" before the army of von
nter.
Von Bothmer \n*.in in Panajer
Aithough the chrck which the
. nr' forces in Galieia received
iarly last week re'.ieved somewhat
the threat which thoir northern ad
\ane_ had brought against von Both?
mer. rhr success of the latest Rus
_g_ effort has again put the Aus
f'an lines on the west bank of the
S-npa in danger. If SakharofT's
:.rmy ahowa further signs of a
yweeping advance to the south west,
where it is aiming at the life lines
of the Aust-ian troops, it is not be?
lieved that von Bothmer will hesi
tatr about swift retreating to his
prepared lines behind the Bug and
Gnila Upa, tn make his last stand
n lafence of Lemberg.
Th* fact that the Russian cavalry
fcflM been extremely activp in the re?
cent *J ? -ou?h of Brody 1* an
ind'ration that thc Austrians no longrr
have prepared lines to fa)1 back upon
ind ar* being rolled back so swiftly
that it h hspessibls for them to con
stnict MJ ^ort of fortitied *v?! with
which to opp'.-e the Russian advance
And in open fighting, military men
agree. the Cnsnncks are master*. and
?'ill pu-h t're enemy's forces to the
limit It was the Cossacka who con
quered an Austrian infantry battery on
n the recent fighting and
captured mnrc than I'.OOO prisoner1-.
Hindenhnr_ Stlffen* Line.
On the Stokhod line the influence of
?BB Hindenburg is already being felt in
'he .tiffenng of the Austro-C,erman
aaa and is ihe _rowm_ fury of their
tounter eharges. Hy winning eommand
ei the i.nrthern part of the stream,
wfcara it eressta tha Piasl flaars-ss.
'?rT hai . Iiminated all danger of
against his lines,
?r, and can cor.centrate his atten
'">n on a fiontal attack for the posses
-ion ?
ln the ( arpathians the reorganized
ansj of I'flanzer is continuing its har
| of the Ruaaian left wing south
? 't is more of a defen-ive
than an offensive movement and can
have r.n *ffe. ? unon the Russian opera
dlong the Dniester.
The official announcement from Ger
!nan Army Headquarters, recently
ng of the appointment of
'''eld MaraWal von Mindenburg to the
chief eommand on the Kastern front, is
'. fail
thi rseSBt visit of rhe G< r
?tn Krr.per. r to the Kastern front, and
*>th the ftjrr.-i men! of Empsror Francn
Joseph (,f Au-tr la-Hungary. a new ar
r*ngemrnt fnr the eommand has been
'?tabluhed according with the new
J'tuation created by the Russian of?
fenaive. Sev.-ral allied army groupa
met been put under the chief eom?
mand of Ku-ld Marahal von Hinden
?urg for uniform employment."
(apture 5,500 Teutons.
rW Ruaaiaa official communication i
thia evening reads:
"f>n the P.;\cr> Graberki and Sereth j
?Bt enemy launched a violent artillery
,;r* against the regions we recently
''?mpifd.
'According ro Ute report*, the total
Ku-orier*. we captured August 4 and 5
??ount?d to 140 officera, including a
?*-im?ntal commander, and over 6,600
*- Cssilaaa. oaTage a. essleetm K. _.
Foe Trapped in Vise,
Joffre Tells Tribune
Joint Thrust of Allies Crushing Life Out of
Germany and Hastening Final Blow,
Freneh Commander Says.
By FRED B. PITNEY.
General Headquarters, France, Aug. 6.?"Pestiny is now shaping it
telf, and every one can read what is about to happen. I mean the final
defeat of Germany."
It was General Joffre who was spcaking at his own headquarters.
We had motored out from Paris with Franklin Bouillon chairman of the
t ommittee for Politieal Aetion of the Chamber of Peput.ies, and after a
very brief wait were led by a side path to the modest house where Gen?
eral Joffre does the work of war.
It was not in the least a place where one would expect to find the head
of the huge organization of a great nation in the midst of war. The
streets of the little town were bare of population, and quiet with thej
rtillness of a cathedral where rare worshippers kneel in the shadow of
ancient pillars. Our party made an unwonted irrupii*>n of noise. and we
?"ound ourselves embarrassed by the curious gaze cf men in uniform, to
whom civilians are a strange sight in their stronghold.
Into Jnffre's Presence.
It was a relief when a junior officer showed us the way from the
huge, silent hotel where the tremendous organization of the General Staff
works in whispers to the home of the chief. When we arrived at the little
red brick house we waited again in s quiet. darkened hall until the com
mandant came. Then we advanced again up a short flight of steps to an?
other hall. and acain waited until still another officer came and conducted
us through a sunlit room. where the great general's luncheon was waiting
to be served. into the presence of the commander himself.
If we were somewhat nervous. wondering what would be the result
of this meeting we so long had sought and anticipated. Gencral Joffre
seemed frankly frightened nt being thus bearded by a collection of men
bent on seeing and examining for themselves and subjectmg to the final
frmlinneo on paa\- *. eolnmn .1
THIEF CAUGHT AND SHOT
ON ASTORS ESTATE
Believed to Have Robbed Rhine
beck Homes.
Poughkeepsie, M. Y., Aug. fi. After a
revolver duel lasting fifteen minutes on I
the Woods Road in FernclifTe, Vmcent j
Astor's Rhinebeck estate, early to-day,:
the man believed by the Dutchess Coun
tv authorities to be responsiblr for the '
recent burglanes at the mansions of
wealthy residents of Rhinebeck fell
from two wounds in the abdomen in
flicted by Deputy Sheriff Michael T.
Raumbush nnd James Downing, a pn
vate detective
The injured man, who ref'ises to
make any statement. il to -night dying
from his wounds in a I'oughkeepsie
hospital. He said he was Prlta
Cramer. thlrty-ail jrcsn old, of the
Bowery, N'ew York, but Sheriff Conklin ;
believes the name ftctitious.
The officers had been placed by;
Sheriff Conklin to wateh over some j
plunder hidden in a elump of bushes;
on the Douglas Merritt estate by rhe
robber who visited last week the Rhine?
beck rssidsnesi of H. K. Moatfonttry
nnd W Starr Miller, of New Vork
--?
WILSON'S GRANDCHILD
ESCAPES PLAGUE RULES
Is Moved from Spring lake to
Summer White House.
IKrorn Th* Trlbtin* BMM 1
Washington, Aug. 6 To avoid the
r.strictions imposed by the infantile
paralysis epidemic, the children of See?
retary of the Treasury McAdoo, includ
mg the Tresident's granddaughter,
were moved to-day from Spring Lake,
where the Seeretary i.n.i Mra McAdoo
are spending the summer, to Shadow
I.awn, I.ong Rranch. the summer White
House.
Thi;- wa- not done because of any
danger to the children. it wai atatsd
at the Treasury I'epartment, but be?
cause of dir?ctions given bv the physi
cian again?t their playing with ..rhers.
WIMBORNE RENAMED
IRISH LORD LIEUTENANT
Baron Rcsigned When Rcvolts
Broke Out.
London, Aug. I. Baron Wimborne
has been reappointed Lord Lieutenant
of Ireland.
Baron Wimborne. originally known
here for his share in the international
polo BStehM, BrSI Lord Lieutenant of
Ireland when the Sinn Kein revolts
broke out. and re-igned following the
great "iitburst of criticism
him. Dvriag the permi when
tlement Of thc hom. iul<- ilSBI
hoped for il wai un.lei-tood that no
?vcccsior would bc appointod.
-? ?.
ARMY MEN HURT IN AUTO
Officers of 14th Victima When (ar
Jumps Kmbankment.
An automohile plunged over a tifty
foot embankment yesterday on the
Shore Road at the entrance to the Fort
Hamilton ros*r\ation Adjutant Thom?
as K. Alford, of the 14th Regiment.
turned the car to the righl
to rhe left at a curve.
BeMdes thr adjutant the following
received minor injuries: Captain J L.
l.ilbreth. Dr. Victor A. Robertson, act- ,
ing surgeon of the 14th; Henry Ilull. |
seeretary to the adjuUnt, and Joseph
Benjamin. a saleaman. They wera'
taken to the Norwegiaa Hospital,
BRITISH TRAP
TURKS AT SUEZ
Rout and Hurl Back
Ottoman Drive on
the Canal.
I Hv Oat.'* tr. T*>? TMB?M 1
London, Aug. fi. The second great
Turkish thrust at the Suez Canal, of
which so mueh was expected in Con
stantinople and the capitals of the Cen?
tral Powers, has heen smashed t.y the
Rritish commander. (icneral Sir Archi
bald Murray.
The (ierman officcre.l Turkish army
of 14,000 rswept west along th* Medi
terranean coast la>t Thursday, pushed
beyond Katia in the following twenty
four hours and by Saturday had flung
the British troops back to Komani.
twenty two mile.* from Port Said ln
thirty-six hour: thry advanced pearlv
eight mile?
Late Friday the Bntish
stiffened The right flank of the Ofto.
man eolVB.ni was caught under the fire
of Allied warships in the Bay of Tina,
and the British land forces took ndvnn
tage of the confusion in the enemy's
ranks. The Turks were checked for the
time being.
A strong frontal attack on Ceneral
Murray's army was then made by the
Turks, and while the Hnti.-h were en
gag.-d in rolhng back this wave Turk
i-h detachments worked their way
around the southern flank. The Bnt?
ish gave way before both frontal and
flank assaults. Then the British com?
mander ordered the mounted Australian
and New Zealand troops to give way.
The enemy, interpreting this as a sign
of Bntish dcmoralization, swung for?
ward in hot pursuit.
Before thej eould realii'e the danger
/he .ttOIBSB forces along the whole
southern wing became invr.lved in the
sand dunes GoBOrsI Murray ipraag
the trap. The Britisn forces along the
entire lme jumped to the attack.
The Turkish Imes halted. wsvered,
and then broke. The An/acs fell on
their rear and the retreat became a
rout More than ?,600 unwounded
Turkish and (.erman prisoners were
iwopl behind the Bntish ranks, lnclud
ing manv Cerman officers. Cuns were
abandoned l>y the score. The pursuit
by the British is continuing.
The Britiah report on the Suez light
says:
"The general officer commandmg in
chief la Egypt rsporta nndet dnt* ..f
Aagual 6, 11:18 r- "'?? thp follow.ng
further detsill of the fighting in the
vicinity of Romani on Aagvst I;
"The enemy made a frontal attack
on the British intrenchments, in con
junetiofl with a flank attack around
the southern flank, employing 14,000
men and heavy howitzers for the
eperation.
Driven Back by Anzara.
"The frontal attack tll BBBBCeSBS*
ful Bef.>re the flank attack our
-, ,i troOfl retire i llowljf DBtil the
beeanM involved m ?
late in thi evening of the 4-h.
"A counter attack wa* then made by
all arms, which was completely suc
essafal, and at dawn on the oth the
pursit of the retreating enemy was
Continue- oo pa*e ?. colun? 0 _
BLASTS NEAR
BLACK TOM
CAUSE PANIC
Flames Sweep Lehigh
Yards a Half Mile
from Peninsula.
NAPHTHA IGNITES;
$200,000 DAMAGE
Grecnville Residents Rush
for Safety, Fearing New
Bombardment.
Burning freirht car* in the erowded
Claremont yard* of the I.ehigh Valley
Railway, less than half a mile from
where. Black Tom still smoulders,'
threw a glare over lower Manhattan
aad the I'pper Bay last night. There j
were numerous expIoaiOBB, nnd when
tha flames reached an empty naphtha
tank car a* 1:10 there was a dctona
tion that struck the Ureenville nection [
of Jersey City with panic. The dam-'
nge || estimated at from $150,000 to j
1200,000.
More than 1.000 loaded freight and
taal cars have been shunte1 into the ;
Claremont yards since the Black Tom (
explosion cu< otf the yards th*re.
Many o' them contained grain. For
t-vo hours, irhfll ?'? ' > I Itf tiremen
?ought in vain to get permission toi
stretch their line* acros*. the main
t.-acks of the Centj-al Railroad of
New Jersey, trainmen of the I.ehigh
fought the flames.
An engine, which has been doing
patrol duty for rhe last week to guard
against fires, sounde.l the alarm. A
medley of irhiatlei joined, as switch j
engines and those attached to way .
and through trains caught the bla.t.
All Lehigh trains within hearing
stopped with a jerk. Their crews un
eoupled tha engines an.l hastoned to
the Claremont yards.
Kngineer Save*. Cars.
Within five minutes, a score of en?
gines were .lodging ahour on -rdings,
no.ing itrinSI of loaded car:- to
safety When at last. a space ha.i
been cleared about the blazing group,
Krn.-t SalliVafl backcd his engine
straight at four burning cars that
were couple.l together.
K. J. Connors, his tireman, ran ahead, !
guiding the loeomotive with his arms .
as calmly as thnugh the heat were not
bhstenng h,- faei Ha mide the hitch i
and baped back into the cab. While
Ceorge Cotimpot, n btakeman. and'
Michael Burgc-s, a eonduetor, prayed
the neare^? rnr U|tl> !iv. |t< -.rn from
the back of th'- tondcr, Sullivan
ed ahead. Mf dr'-w the four blazing
i ,r beai ? '? ?> erater taak, and, wh<-n
the water vai pourmg fron the ipout,
pulled them siowly back and forth be?
neath the itrtan nntil the tire wa? out.
Inccndiari*m 1* Suapeeted.
John Hayes, of 4 1 Randolph Street.
Jersey City, was one of the first ro
light the t:re. As he ran to it, he met,
two well-dressed men if forci_n ap
poaranCO. They began to run and wer* !
qmckly out of sight. Hayes thinks \
they were Anst rians.
Two of the ean deetrojrod contained
nitric aeid. The report was current
among railroad etnployei rh.it the tire
had been kindle.l by an ineendiary, who
thought the nitric icid was picnc kdd
intended for the ammunition fa.rones
of the Alliea
Hundreds Klee in Panlc.
Only about a quarter of a mile from ,
where the twenty cars shot a roanng
blase inte the sky are the work< of the
Kagle Dil Company. A* sight of the'
glowing heavens and sound of the ex
ploaiom thal earne thick and fast. with
the tank car tilled with naphtha ga^ as
a elimax, Creenville becan;
another diiaatOT ?as npofl it. Witfl
out waiting to lock their .loors, h???*?>
holders M ./..'.1 wha' i were
most handy and fle.l to a safe distance.
MAYOR AND OSCAR S. STRAUS THINK
MEN WILL RETURN TO WORK TO-DAY
As a result of a day's conferences between Mayor
Mitchel, Oscar S. Straus, chainnan of the Public Service
Connnission; William D. Mahon and William B. Pitz?
gerald, representing the striking car men of the New
York Railways Company, and Theodore P. Shonts, presi?
dent of the system, the Mayor and Mr. Straus last night
authorized the following statement:
"We have aubmitted certain propoaals for a aettlement
of the atreet railway atrike to Preaident Shonts of the New
York Railwaya Company and to the repreaentativea of the
striking employes. After a day of conferences and dis
cussions, a basis of settlement has been found and will be
recommended by Preaident Shonts to his board of directora
for ratification and by the representatives of the men to the
employes for ratification by them.
"The meeting of the board of directora and the meet?
ing of the employea will be held to-morrow (Monday).
Upon ratification of the proposed settlement by both sides
the men will immediately return to work and service will
be resumed on the entire New York Railways system."
Cars Are Run All Day,
But Halted at Night
Two Uniformed Patrolmen Guard Each Crew?Police
and Railway Heads, Expecting Violence, Are
Pleasantly Disappointed by Quiet.
Surface car* -ere as searce anrl at
unpopular in New York yesterday as
they had been on Saturday. Two po?
licemen guarded every ear that left the,
barns of the green ear system, but the1
uniform and ready nightstiek did not
seem to have a soothing effect on pros?
pective passenger* About the same
?crvic* was given in all four of the
stnke-stricken boroughs; aa before, the
cars were locked up in the barns at 8
o'clock at night.
The green, blue and red cars in Man?
hattan, the cars of the Union Railway
Company in The Bronx, and the sur?
face Imes in Queens eeased to operate |
ar the same hour laat night. The
StatSfl Island company attempted to
run only three cars on a shuttle line
between Midland and South Beaches.
Evofl these sought safety in the barns
early ia the evening. The only sur?
face ean operated last night, as on
Saturday night, in the entire city were
the B. R. T. ears, the Queensboro and
Manhattar, Bridge locals and the trol
leys on the Jamaica line of the Man?
hattan & Queens Traction Corporation
lt was expected yesterday that thi-s
morning's rush hour traffic would bc
nal test of strength between th*
,;ll,or i*ad*rs and the traction compa
?i? now er.pple.l by stnkes Th.'
Ne-.v York Railway* Companv. operat- |
|?- ,he green car*. prepared all dav
MAHON SEES NEW ERA
FOR STREET CAR MEN
"Strike Will Not Be Settied Un
til We Wish." He Says.
-I feel we are on the verge of a new
er? for the *tre*t car men of New York.
But don't ge. the idea the strike is set
tled It ia not. and it will not be until
w- have decided to settle lt CafB BtB
not running and they will not be until
we have reached an agreement.
TMe<e words of William I). Mahon,
,,re?dent of the street car men s
!,_,?-, wer* cheered Dy 2.000 strikers n
Central Oper. house, in K.fty-seventh
?tr*et near Third Avenue. last night.
The meeting was bn*f. Mahon an
nounced the result of the Bar Assoc,
a?on conference iB the afternoon but
explained the terms agreed to by both
iidsi eould not be made public.
Climaxes Are Coming
The big league is swinging into the homrstretch.
thr national tennis tournamcnt will be here before. you
know it. the f.eld for national golf honora is narrowing
evety Hay. What a lol of sporting events are approach
ing a rlimax!
You want news about your favorite sport. Yes,
but you want more?opinions. And we give them to
you?from the specialists in each sport who writes most
entertainingly. most ably. Turn your paper over to the
back pagr and the next to last page. It's all there.
ilhe Uribune
Firar fo __*'?tht Truth:
Neut?EditoriaU?Advertieemenit.
_>mt*r of th* Audit Bureau of Ctrcula'looa.
A.
yesterday t.) maintain thia morning
something near a normal service on
1 ali lines. The company spent hours
training upward of 150 strike-breaking
| motormen to run cara, preparatory to
adding them to the regular crews this
morning. Kach company affected by
the strike operated less cars yesterday
than on Saturday. It is this fact in
spite of the two patrolmen assigned to
each car the service was scarcely more
than 40 per cent of normal that led
to the pressure broujrht upon the trac?
tion officials of the green ea^s yester?
day to come to terms with the strik
en.
Besides, although two policemen did
aeeompany each green car. the company
shut down Its service soon after sun
down. It waa then especially that New
York walked of necessity. Since the
labor trouble really hit New York no
e> nip.inv atfecte.l has attempted to op?
erate a car after 8 o'clock at night.
The police are pleased with this plan,
but the streetcar travelling public is
"ot- . .
Thousands of Sunday picnickers who
had the temerity to take a holiday at
the city's nearby pleasure places came
back to town last night to face a jam
on the subway and elevated roads that
far exceeded any rush hour crowds.
Kxtra trains and cars were operated
by the Interborough from the Battery,
but the added facilities were scarcely
more than a drop in the bucket.
Coney Island crowds, Staten Island
rmu-d' erowdl nf river excursionists
_
t ...ition.-.l on piigr 1. Milumn l
WHITRIDGE SAYS HE
MADE NO AGREEMENT
From Scotland Third Avenue
Line Head Answers Straus.
London, Aug. B. Frederick W. Whit?
ridge. president of the Third Avenue
Railway Cornpany and the Cnion Rail?
way Company. of New Vork, sent to
the Associated Press, to-day from Pit
lochry, Scotiun.l, a message denying he
had ever agreed to arbitrate dirferences
with employes of his company.
"It is not a fact," said Mr. Whit?
ridge, "that I have at any time made
any such agreement as you say the
Public Service Commission charges me
with having violated or forgotten."
Oscar S. Straus, chairman of the
Public Service Commission, at a hear
ing Friday, charged thar the breaking
nf an arbitration agreemenr by Mr.
Whitridge was directly responsible for
the strike in Yonkers, The Bronx an 1
on the Third Avenue railway system,
which later spread to four boroughs of
Greater New York.
"There is no question," Mr. Straus
told representatives of the companies
and itrikers, "that the strike is due to
the attitude and aetion of President
Whitridge. It proves that either he in
tentionally violated the agreement he
made witb hu men to arbitrate. or that
he was so negligent of hia duties as to
forget his agreement to arbitrate."
TRACTION MEN STRIKE
IN PHILADELPHIA
Demand Higher Pay and Recog
nition of Union.
Philadelphia, Aug. ?.?A itrike of mo
torrnen and conducton on the lines of
the Philadelphia Rapid Transit Com?
pany was ordered by the executive com
mittee of the local division of the
Amalgamated Association of Street and
Kleetric Railway Kmployes at a meeting
to-night.
Members of the union are demanding
40 .enta an hour, recognition of the
union, abolition of ?w:ng runs and the
adjustment of grievancei by a uxuou
coonutt??.__.... ? ..??
BASIS OF AGREEMENT
WITHHELD BY HAYOR
Fears Its Publication Might Block
Ratification by Directors
and Workers.
MUTUAL CONCESSIONS
GAINED AT CONFERENCE
Oscar S. Straus, Who Helped at Meetings,
Says Third Avenue Matter Will
Now Be Taken Up.
William D. Mahon and William B. Fitzgerald, representin*
the Amalgamated Association of Street Railway Employes, and
Theodore P. Shonts and James L. Quackenbush, representing
the New York Railways, yesterday reached an agreement for
the settlement of the strike of green car employes.
This agreement. based on mutual concessions, will be sub
mitted to the strikers and the directors of the company in special
meetings for ratification this morning, and it is expected by
Mayor Mitchel that the strike will be at an end by noon.
Pending ratification, the terms of the settlement, ar
ranged by the Mayor and Oscar S. Straus, chairman of the Pub?
lic Service Commission. at a series of conferences which began
at midnight Saturday in the Westchester home of Mr. Straus
and ended at ti o'eloek last night in the rooms of the Bar Associ?
ation. are withheld.
In announcing that a tentative settlement had been reached,
Mr. Mitchel stated to the reporters that the details of the set- >
tlement could not be announced at this time and eamestly re- yl
quested that no speculation as to the terms should be in
dulged in.
"As Mayor of this city," said he. "I think I am justified in
asking that there be no speculation on this matter. The situ?
ation ii I delicate one, and I do not think that any of the papers
of New York wish to do anything that may prolong this trouble.
For that reason I think the papers should be content with the
statements of the labor men and of Mr. Straus and myself."
That the situation is satisfaetory io the union as well as
to the employer may be judged from the fact that, speaking to
a meeting of strikers last night. Mr. Mahon, president of the
Amalgamated Association, declared after saying an agreement
had been reached, "We are on the verge of a new era for the
streetcar men of this city."
Take l'p Third Avenue Line To-day.
The settlement does not affect the Third Avenue line, the
New York & Queens and the Staten Island system, but is ex?
pected to offer a basis on which settlement will be had on these.
Chairman Straus is authority for the statement that the Third
Avenue matter will be taken up to-day.
Meanwhilf, the organiaen <>f the Amalgamated Association
of"sTreet Railway Employes, called here since the beginning of
the trouble in Yonkers, will remain in New York to continue the
organization of the several systems, more particularly the
Brooklyn Rapid Transit Company.
So satistied was Mr. Mitchel that the threatened tie-up of
all the transportation lines of the city was at. an end that he said
last night he hoped to got away to Plattaburf in a few days.
Tho first intimation that a settlement might be reached
came at 5 o'eloek, when Mr. Shonts, aecompanied by Mr. Quack?
enbush. his chief counsel. left the rooms of the Bar Association.
where they had been in conference with the Mayor, Mr. Straus
and Julius Meyer Cohen, special counsel to the Public Service
Commission and a veteran in labor disputes.
??Better See Mayor."
"Is there a settlement?" Mr. Shonts was asked.
"You had better see the Mayor; let him tell it," replied the
railroad chief. "If I start talking I may tell everything. l>t
the Mayor do the talking."
"Do things look better?" was the next question.
"I never said they Iooked bad," he answered. "See the
Mayor. He will tell you all."
Within an hour Mahon and Fitzgerald, with Louis Fridiger,
counsel to the union, were called from the Hotel Continental,
where the executive board of the Amalgamated Association had
been in session. They had been going over, it afterward de
veloped, the reply of Mr. Shonts through Mr. Mitchel to the
proposition advanced by Messrs. Mahon and Fitzgerald at a
conference which lasted from K> in the morning until after 1
o'eloek in the afternoon.
While reporters waited at the main entrance to the Bar As?
sociation the labor men entered by the Forty-third Street en?
trance. They were in the room only a few minutes when Mr.
Straus, who had shed his coat, appeared in the lobby.
"I think it is all right," he said. "Vou will have a statement
in a few minutes."
Mahon Has Statements.
Immediately Fitzgerald and Mahon came out, the latter
with a handful of typewritten sheets.
i "There is all that there ia to be said by us," he explained,
? i
