THE ARIZONA REP XTBI
ICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAH
8 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, MONDAY MORNING, AUGUST 7, 1916
8 PAGES
VOL. XXVII, no; 81
IBER HARD BLOW AT TEDT
ROSS
ANS snuK
IN NORTHERN GALlCtA THE
-, RUSSIANS OGGUPYVILLflSES
II RIQGES-WHERE LDCATEQ
f (By Republican Associated Press Leased Wire)
In Northern Galicia the Russians have struck another hard blow at the
Teutonic allies and have occupied along the Sereth and Graberki rivers,
south of Brody, six villages and the entire ridge on which they are located.
Furious fighting marked the engagement, the Russians being forced in
the villages to drive their adversaries from house to house. The Austro-
Germans at last reports were bombarding violently their lost positions.
In the fighting the Russians captured a regimental commander and 140
officers and more than 5,500 men and also took numerous machine guns and
bomb throwers.
Berlin admits that the Russians have gained the left bank of the Sereth
river but asserts that the Germans have made progress against the French in
the Chapitre wood near Verdun and in mining operations against them in
the Argonne: that the Russians have been driven from positions along the
Stokhod river south of Zarecze and that in the Carpathians the Germans are
still operating successfully.
Slight advances tor the British at Highwood and east of Pozieres, on
the Somme front, ana oy the French southwest of Estrees, vj;h of the
Somme and to the northwest of the Thiaumont work near Verdun were re
corded by the British and French.
The Germans ar neavily bombarding the Thiaumont work and Fleury
position of the French.
In Asiatic Turkey the Russians report the capture of various places of
new Turkish positions. In the Kialkil Chia river basin positions protected
by five lines of trenches were wrested from the Turks while south of Erxin
gan and west of the village of Ognut additional trenches and two heights
were captured. In the region of Mush and Bitlis the Turks haVe assumed
the offensive but Petrograd says they are being held by the Russian fire.
The 14,000 Turkish troops operating on a seven-mile front from the east
against the Suez canal also have mef with defeat at the hands of the
British and have been forced to flee, leaving more than 2500 prisoners behind
them, including some Germans, says London. In addition the Ottomans suf
fered heavy casualties. Australian and New Zealand cavalry took an active
part in the fighting.
In the Austro-Italian theater the Austriana are heavily bombarding the
Italian lines between the Adige and upper Isonzo rivers and the Pasubio arc,
while in the Sugana valley and the upper Cordevole valley they launched in
fantry attacks against the Italian. These attacks were repulsed.
Unofficial advices from Saloniki say the Serbians have taken from the
Bulgarians the village of Remlib, on the Macedonian front.
Von Hindenburg '
Makes Big Fight
To Stem Tide
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
I'LTIt' MBAJPj .A"Kt 6. (Via Lon
don Russian attacks along the Zer
eth and Graberka rivers, south of
Hrodjr, in northern Galicia, broke the
Teutonic resistance and resulted in the
capture by the Russians of six villages
and the entire ridge along which trtey
are located, according to a war office
announcement today. More than 3,000
prisoners were taken.
Since the loss of Brody by the Aus-
trians and the successful operations of
the Russians against the Germans,
which resulted in their gaining the
whole of the line along the Stokhod
and the capture of several fortified
villages considerably west of this river
on the direct route to Kovel, the situ
ation on the Russian General P-rusil-offs
front has remained virtually un
altered. The Russians by no means have lout
control of the initiative, but another
wave of most, energetic German resist
ance has set In and the newly organ-
izd German army, which is composed j tns northeast or the Thiaumont work
of all the available reserves and fresh j in Verdun was announced by the war
recruits, has undertaken the task ol office this afternoon. A German coun
changing its tactics, from passive re- ter attack in this sector was repulsed,
sistenre to a most extensive counter I i'rogress for the French southwest of
offensive. Field Marshal von Hin-1 Kstrees on the Somme front, as a re
denburg's personaldiretH'on of the op- j rult t small engagements, also was
erations In this field Is quite apparent, i announced.
but it is not thought possible by the According to an official announce
Russian observers that he can more ment, the number of , toners taken by
than temporarily check the advance the French in the week of July 30-
of the Russian forces upon Kovel. j
The Russians have succeeded In
consolidating all the positions they
won In the recent battle between the
(Continued tin Page Two)
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
FARIS, August 6. A dispatch to La
Liberte. dated North of France says:
"The latest Rritinh advance north of
Pozierfs was the result of a brilliant
offensive on the night of August 4-5,
tinder an artillery preparation of great
efficacy. Since the Australians cap
tured pozieres, the enemy has not
ceased his furious attacks against the
village, in the outskirts of which he
liad succeeded In keeping some ground.
"The British commander resolved on
Friday to clear the village by taking
the principal support of the second
line German offense, made up of a
series of small works extending from
Hapaume road to that of Thiepval, on
a front of about three Idlomcters.
"The bombardment began about day
break and continued unceasing until
night. It destroyed the defenses, lev
eled entrenchments ami rendered shel
ters uninhabitable. At 11 o'clock at
night the work of artillery being suf
ficient, the order to attack was passed
along to the units grouped in the vil
lage of Pozieres. While the Surrey and
Kent troops pushed on in an assault
against the position on the Hapaume
road, which were taken in less than
half an hour, the Australians, with
Sussex regiments at their left, cap
tured, without striking a blow, six
lines of trenches northwest of Po
zieres. They carriiv.. also a large
work situated at the intersection of
th Thiepval and Moijuet roads and
continued their victorious progress east
of Lelpsic redoubt In the direction of
Thiepval.
The operation In the opinion of ob
servers was one of the most brilliant
since the beginning of the offensive In
the Somme and was carried out with
rapidity and certainty, which wan aid-
LATEST BRITISR ADIANCETS .
RESULT OF BRILLIANT ATTACKS
Germans Claim
Progress Made in
Verdun Fighting
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BERLIN (via London), August S.
Desjierate engagements continue in the
Veerdun region, notably in the vicinity
of Thiaumont work, says today's army
headquarters statement. The Germans
have made progress in Chapitre wood.
On the Somme the battle near Po
zieres is still in progress. British local
attacks near the river and at Foreaux
wood were surprised.
On the eastern front, the Russians
have been driven from the positions to
which they were st:n c:lnging near
Zareeze on the Stokhod in Southern
Volhynia. In the Carpathians German
troops are continuing ineir successful
operations.
The west bank of the river Sereth
near Zalocze and northwest of that
place 'has been characterized by the
Russians, the statement adds.
French Gain Ground
PARIS, August 6. A further gain of
ground by the French in local opera-
August 5, for the most part In the
iueusc region, exceeoea i.anu.
The Serbians have won another suc
cess in operations along the Mace
(Onntinued on Page Two)
od i,v ihn ,.r..i.,i,. r .h- ,.f (h
P.ritiuH l,tttlorin
The itritih tro,, ..,ia ik,.J
entrenchments which had been com-
pletely destroyed and machine guns
and defenders burled, and at certain
i.ii t th uui.,.., . .
encountered.
"The Germans moreover seemed to
have been takeii by surprise by this'
attack on which they had evidently
not counted at so early a date. De
rided hesitation was observed in the
directions of rtie German commander
which resulted in delaying the bringing
up of considerable reinforcements. It
was more than four hours after the
British had attained their objective
that counter attacks occurred and
these were easily repulsed."
Nicholas Determined That
Russia Shall Make Good
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
I.ONDON. Auk. 6. Answers to the
telegrams he sent to the heads of"
w..,uUh cmenie aiiiea nations on tne
secoim anniversary or Great Britain h
entry into the war have been received
bv King George.
rn message rrom.estv to believe I am entirely in
Emperor Nichobm Of Russia., dated at
general litadnnarters, i-ald:
"1 am equally determined that we
in Russia shall make good ihe sacri
fices which my brave troops and peo
ple have given to a Vanse which will
bring the reward we seek, nn.i that
the peace for which we fight shall
be secured by complete victory over
our eiivmieV
Canadian
j? J&
MAY SETTLE NEW YORK CAR STRIKE TODAY
i
ITALIAN SHIP CHASED 1
BY THREE SUBMARINES 1
NEW YORK, August 6. The
I Italian s'eamship Be d'ltalia with 1
throe America passengers aboard
from Genoa, Italy, was chased fur
three hours by three submarines
while in the Mediterranean and was
saved from capture by use of de- !
fense guns mounted aft, according I
to the report of her master. Cap- I
I tain Amedeo Fincettl, on the ar-. 1
j rival of the ship here today. The
I captain said he believed one of the
I submersibles was rit by a shell, i
! althoueh his only evidence was the I
column, of water which arose. No
shots were fired at the Ue d'ltalia,
1 Captain l'inceti said and all he
I saw of the submarines were their
I periscopes.
n
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WITH T11K BRITISH ARMIES IN
FRANCE, Au, " (Via lxmdon. Aug.
j.) ('rider a merciless concentration
rf shell fire the Australians are hold
ing onto their gains today after their
advance last night on a front of two
miles. The Germans already have
delivered three i.werful counter at
tacks to retake the lost ground and
all have failed. -
In one of the counter attacks the
Germans came forward holding up
their hand.. Behind them the Brit
lsh g'ins had placed curtains of rhi ll
fire through which it was impossible
for teem to retreat while the Aus
tralians' machine guns and rifles,
mowing them down, made it hoiKless
to continue the charge It was deal);
whichevir way they moved death it
thev stood still or lay down in the
bullet-swept space and they sjirrren
dPred rather than continue their vain
efforts.
Their Inn nrovious nttack having
ben by the right flank, the British
renewed the offtnslve by left flank
after a week of bombing and sapping.
Here the task fell to the Australians
who added another victory to their
brilliant record in the taking of Po
zieres. I.i grilling heat, under a
.dazing un. . ihev had been working
in a continual shell nre, digging men
new trenches in the open beyond Po
leres faring 'he Herman second line
trenches on .he left of the break the
lirltlsh hat already made in their
(revlous nttack.. '
This was one of the remaining im
portant positions op the high ground
which has been so bitterly -contested
by nil the gun po'.vd r cunning ami
stlitilmrinces both sides' could bring
to bear. I'nnn this section of strong
Held fortifications with deep dugouts
the British kept up a tornado o'
hell fire of all calibres. Thev
:mast,ed the defense into lrregula
mounds of ear'h which had no sem
blance of trenches. ,
Not only di'1 th German guns re
turn the corriplimen on the Australi
an front line, but kipt up curtains
f fire behind it.
The Germans managed to stick to
the mini r.f their fort ifizations digg
ing new cover as fast as what thev
had. was destroyed. Evidently the
Germans had determined this rid?
yiimmlt must Im held at any cost.
"When we irn, we go," stiys th
Australians, ' we don t try for a
nibble, bet for a big bite of, the
cherry
The Germans wire surprised and
even the British Mall was somewnnt
I Kll r priyeo wnen U lOIMMl iiipii ii'inni
Mtt correct and' they had taken ev-
I , ry r"d of the front which they hnd
I , """"
hr,m" , "'x hundred prisoners were
1 started , back but even after their
surrender their lives were not safe for
tbey had ti pass through the German
curtnin of shell fire behind the Aus
tralinns, which hart been maintained
in increased volume all day.
With this ndditio-ial front the Prit
Ish now hold five, miles of the former
German second line. The Australians
are today in sight of Martinpuich and
Conrrelette. This new advance, which
wan at right angles to the German
first line, literally was a part of o
(Continued on 1-age Two)
, From the emperor of
follow Inn was received:
Japan tli
alljh. trtal of-mjjt
nrm)eK of the allies ar now piarch-
ing forward, (-teadily and succens
fully, on nil fronts. I beg your ma.i
ac-
cord "with you In
the strong deter
n.ination to carry
on the struggle
until pur common cause for right and
freedom shall be fully vindicated."
The message from King Peter of
Serbia aaid he had received with sat
Isfactlon the first testimonies of an
"Inflexible determination to brbig
about the
catuje."
triumph of the nobl
AUSTRALIANS
BRING GUNS
II RANDS UP
Soldier Searches Hughes' Car for
j& j? j&
MAYOR MITCHEL
SAYS BASIS HAS
NOWDEEN FOUND
aion for settlement of the differences
I between the United States and Mexi
- Republican A. P. Leased Wire j cn are expected to lie brought to a
NEW YORK, August . Settlement quick conclusion. Officials here bo
ot me strike oi me street car men.
which resulted again tonight in a com- , conferences aome time next week. sponse naming the American commis
plete suspension of surface car traffic 1 It is understood that during his trin : sirma and doiiimatino th .im h
in all tne boroughs of Greater New
York, except Brooklyn, la probable to-
sued by Mayor Mitchell. The un
I
nouncement came after a day of con- I
ferences initiated by Mayor llitchel.
with the co-operation of Oscar S.
Strauss, chairman of the public ser
vice commission. At these meetings,
it was said, k basis of settlement had
been reached which Would lie submit
ted to the board of directors of the
New York Railways company and to
its striking employes.
The mayor and fdairman Strauss
conferred this morning with William
I). .Mahon. president of the Amalga
mated Association of Street and Elec
tric Railway Employes; William H.
Fitzgerald, general organizer of the
organization; Hugh A. Rainer. organ
izer of the State Federation of Ijt.'ior.
and their attorney. Mr. Mitchell and
Mr. Strauss then met Theodore I'.
Shonts, president of the ralways com
pany, and his attorney. l-atcr the
mayor gave out a statement in which
he said:
"We have submitted certain pro
posals for a settlement of the street
railway strike to President Shonts. of
the New York Railways company, and
to the representatives of the striking
employes. A basis of settlement lias
been found and will be recommended
by President Shonts to his board of
directors for ratification and by the
representatives of the men to the em
ployes for ratification by them.
1 he meeting of the board of di
rectors and the meeting of the em
ployes will be held tomorrow, and
upon ratification of the proposed set
tlement by both sides, the men will
Immediately return to work and ser
vice will be resumed on the entire
railways system. In the meantime,
and pending the submission of the
terms of settlement on both side:;, it is
deemed inadvisable to make them
public."
President Mahon confirmed the an
nouncement of Mayor Mitchell, but
declined to discuss the proposed terms
r settlement.
"We believe." he said, "that if the
propositions which have been axreed
to bv the representatives of the com
pany and1 ourselves are ratified thev
will establish a very satisfactory
agreement."
Announcement that a settlement was
in prospect came soon after all the
companies operating surface cars in
Manhattan, the Bronx ami Queens had
ordered to the barns the cars which
had been operated during the day. No
attempt was made to supply Sunday
service on Maten Island (Richmond.)
Police reports indicated that about
4. per cent or tne normal Sunday car
service was maintained during the day
by the companies affected. Managers
of the various companies declared they
were prepared to provide service to
morrow. Two uniformed policemen rode on
every rar run during the d.iy. There
were a few minor disturbances
Strike in Philadelphia
PHILADELPHIA, Pa.. Aug. fi. A
strike of motormcn and conductors on
the lines of the Philadelphia Rapid
Transit Company1 was ordered by the
executive committee of the local di
vision of the Amalgamated Association
of Street and Railway Employes at a
meeting tonight Messengers were dc
snatched to the various car barns no
tlfying the men to stop work tomor
row morning. i
Officials of the company declare that
only fifteen per cent of their men are
members of the union unci snv tha'
(Continued on Page Two)
Three Bathers,
Drowned When
Canoe Upsets
Rubllcan A. P. Leased Wire!
Thue persons were drowned here at
noon today in the Cedar river. whn
a canoe in which they were rowing
was upset. '
" he dead:
Ralph I. Olney, 22 years old.
Beatrice Whitney, 17 years old.
Edna Whitney. 13 years oldj
Thev. had been bathing in the river
ana were rowing up the stream hun
tne accident occurred. The bodu
were recovered. '
Th ree Others Drown
T r l . . .
x nnin, inwa, august ti Throe sw m
mers lost their lives in the Iowa river
near nere this afternoon. The men
nan neen swimming near the dam who
they WorP suddenly swept down the
stream ry tne,undercurrent. The dead
Edward
Donnan, 30 years old,
Ewart.
Gordon Donnan,
Ewart.
William Watson
Ewa rt. '
22 years old
27 years old, o
The bodies were recovered.
WILSON PLANS SOON TO
CONVENE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire t
I V Aftlll.A'i J OiN, August 8. With 1
the return of President Wilson tomor
row from his week-end cruise down
the Potomac, preliminary arrange
ments for convening a joint commis-
neve tne commissioners may begin i
the president has gone over carefully
General Carranza's latest note an- ;
I .""J'cing selection "f th three M"l-
WASHINGTON, August 6. The
new farm loan hoard charged with or
ganization of the federal land bond
system providing methods for making
loans to farmers on first mortgages of
land, will hold its first meeting to
morrow at the treasury .department.
The most important preliminary work
of the hoard will be division of the
country into twelve federal band dis
trict, with a land hank which will
furnish the funds for the loans to
farmers in each district.
Ffrty cities already have applied or
have been recommended for banks.
Before it reaches any decisions the
board Is expected to travel across the
continent to hear the views of the
farmers on where banks should be
located and how district lines Bhould
be drawn. It is probable this part of
the board s work will take several
onths. s
Cities which have applied or which
ave been recommended for banks in-
ude:
Coloradg lenver: Kansas Topeka;
ebraska Omaha and Lincoln; Okla-
oma Oklahoma City; Texas Dallas,
ort Worth. Houston. Waco.
Claims of these cities have not been
cided as yet. but it is believed they
ill be presented in detail through the
earings.
VICTIM OF
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
COLORADO SPRINGS, August 6.
ohn Dorr, 2," years old, an automobile
mechanic, was the victim of a bomb
xplosion shortly before II o clock to-
ight while experimenting with a time
bomb in a suitcase, according to re-
lorts given out by trie police. Both
legs were blown off, his eyes are gone
nd he is unable to hear or to speak,
Little hope is held out for his recov-
ry. The explosion occurred in the
itchen of his home at 720 South Cas-
ade avenue. Dorr's wife and baby
were asleep in a nearhi' room hut
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK. Aug. 6 Officials of
he four railroad brotherhoods who are
ii this city to attend the conference of
managers here next Tuesday and in
form them of the strike vote of the
tuu.iwo workers, which is reported to
ie overwhelmingly in favor of a strike
on 225 railroads unless their demands
for an eight-hour day and time and a
half for overtime are granted, de
clined tonight to make any statement
that might Indicate their subject of
discourse.
Thomas Shea one of the brother
hood leaders who is superintending the
count of the ballots said tonight the
canvass is not yet complete, but that
the entire vote will be counted before
Tuesday.
W. G. Lee, president of the Broth -
ertiood of Railroad Trainmen, said he
would have no statement to make un
til after the result of the vote had
been laid before the railroad officials.
Dudley Field Malone, collector of the
port; Frank P. Walsh, chairman of the
commission on industrial relations and
representatives of several of the broth
erhoods addressed a mass meeting here.
tonignt in iavor ot tne eignt hour day.
''he meeting was attended by more
than 600 chairmen of the adjustment
committees representing workers on
all the country's, railroads.
Mr. Malone declared the railroad
operators should realize that "Stupid
iacs ot economic provision in nandlinff
this problem will be more to aid agi-
tation for government ownership of
linn rinn i nm m nm
IUMLHI ULUbl
BOARDTO HOLD 0E1
MEETING TGDflV
BROTHERHOOD OFFICIALS INT
DISGUSSC01NG CONFERENCE
rauroaas man anything the advocates .whose jurisdiction such an amend
of government ownership could ac- ri.nf ui,..,,i,i fnii ,iit ,i n i
comjillsh," He added;
COMMISSION
can commissioners and suggesting that
luioiiinwioii une up pi eieraoiy
the questions of withdrawal of the
American troops, a protocol to cover
future bandit operations and investi
gation of what influences have been
behind border raids.
Although the attitude of the Ameri
can government will not be officially
stated until after the president has
conferred with state department offi-
rials is the en-rtniin thut ,n hi r-
place, Mr. Wilson says that Mr. Car-'
ranza does not mean to limit the scope
of the commission to three subjects.
RIS COMRADES
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
EL PASO. Tex.. Aug. 8. Carran
cistas soldiers today captured one of
the party, which under Mariano
Tames former Villista colonel, left
Juarez vesterdav with the announced
inlfr.tion of ioininc Villa, near Zars
aoji. about 00 miles south. General
Francisco Gonzales announced, wriu.:
four others had been taken into cus
tody near Samalavuca. .
General Gonzales asserted also that
the prisoners said that a party of
more than eighty men. who nad oeen
expected to join them south of
luirrex liad word to Tames th;M
EON REELS
TAMES AND
they had dispersed. Seven hundred ' scheduled for-shortly before 8 o'clock
"arran::i cavalrymen are in close and will be delivered .in the Arcadia
pursuit of Tames and the remnant Auditorium, where President Wilson
of his hand, it is said, and their cap- made one of h(s addresses on his re
ture is expee'ed shortly. cent visit. At the conclusion of the
Mexiccn officials denied that the I speech, Mr. Hughes will be hurried to
revoiters took with them several ma
chine r'tns and a quantity of muni
tions from the Juarez cuartel.
Both Sides Lose
CHIHUAHCA CITY, Mex.. Aug. 6
Government troops and Viilistas both
lost heavily in a sharp skirmish in
the bills a few mi!"s north of Mapimi.
Purango, today, according to reports
to Gene ral Jacinto Trc-vino. Lieuten-
(Continued on Page Two?
OWN BOMB
neither was injured, the force of the
explosion ranging downward. The
kitchen was blown to pieces and the
house was wrecked.
Mrs. Dorr is under the care of a
physician, too dazed to speak.
The police searched the house and
found small pieces of a suitcase that
had been torn to atoms. Another suit- '
case was discovered which contained I
twcntv-roiir sticks (if rivnumitri o zv.il
I battery, switch and r'irk. The crin
. also contained a brittle of nih'w h
, bottle of sulphuric acidy The police
have no theory to offer for Dorr's ac-
tions.
"The railroad companies sav that
$l,.r)0i,0no,000 represent the wages paid
to employes of the railroads in Ameri
ca each year, but they fail to tell the
public that there are 1.S0M00 em
ployes which makes that each man
getahout $S33 a year, which in these
days, of economic stress is not a living
wage."
Nominees Quizzed on Stand ,
on the Suffrage Amendment
Republican A. P. Leased Wire i
WASHINGTON, Aug. 6. In shap
ing plans for their campaign for paw
sage of a federal Svoman suffrage
amendment through the next con
gress the National Woman Suffrage
Association already has begun a can
vass of the attitudes of the candi
dates for the senate and house of
representatives. The association's
headquarters here announced tonight
, that it had submitted to each nomi
j nee the following questions:
I "1. Are you in favor of woman suf
frage? '2. If elected, w',11 von vote in cnr.
. gress to submit to the states a fed-
ernl amendment to enfranchise the
i women of this country? (
i ,"3. Jf appointed on a committee In
j j our power to expedite the passage
Explosives
'
TO
ME TALKS IN
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NIAGARA FALLS, N. Y., August 6.
Charles- E. Hughes, westward
bound on the first trip of his presiden
tial campaign trip, spent today at
Niagara Falls. Mr. Hughes and his
wife attended chirfch in the morning,
went for a long motor ride in Canada
this afternoon and late tonight left for
Detroit, where the nominee will de
liver two speeches tomorrow night.
At Mr. Hughes' request there- was
no public reception here. During the
auto ride in Canada at a lonely spot a
Canadian soldiei
ordered the driv
soldier with fixed bayonet
er to halt and search
ed the car for explosives. The soldier.
when told of Mr. Hughes' identity, re
plied with a grin that he was sorry,
but Canadian military rules- made no
exception.
To Begin Campaign '
DETROIT, Mich.. August 6. Charles
E. Hughes, republican presidential
nominee, will begin his campaign here
tomorrow with two speeches. A
strenuous day has heen mapped out
for the nominee, including numerous
receptions, a visit to Navin Field,
where part of the Detroit-Philadelphia ,
baseball game will be witnessed, and
a visit to several local automobile
plants.
Immediately upon his arrival at the
Michigan Central depot in the morn
ing,, Mr. Hughes will be taken to his
hotel. There he will hold a public re
ception at 9 o'clock. Next a special
reception will be tendered to the press
and at the conclusion of this gather
ing, delegates and alternates to the
republican national convention and of
the state central committee will meet
the candidate.
Shortly before noon Mr. Hughes will
receive members of the congressional
union for woman suffrage.
At 5:30 the nominee is to lunch with
newspaper men at the Detroit Athletic
club.
The first speech in the evening is
the Light Guard armory in the down
town section, where, according to the
program mapped out, he will begin
speaking at about 9 p. m.
It is planned that Mr. Hughes re
main at the armory until time to leave
for his train, which departs from the
Michigan Central depot shortly before
midnight for Chicago.
, Willcox Precedes Hughes
CHICAGO, August 6. William R.
Willcox. chairman of the republican
national committee,! will arrive here
tomorrow morning, according to a tel
egram received today by Henry R.
Rathbone, president of the Hamilton
Club, twenty-four hours in advance
of Charles Evan Hughes, the party
presidential candidate.
Mr. Hughes will arrive at 8 a. m.'
Tuesday from Detroit. At noon a
public reception will be held. At night
the presidential candidate will speak
at the Coliseum. Immediately after
his speech he will leave for St. Paul.
He is accompanied by Mrs. Hughes
land two carloads of correspondents.
NO POISON FOUND
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
UTICA. N. Y.. August 6. Dr. A. E.
Hamilton, of Auburn, a poison expert,
tonight reported to District Attorney
Fuller that he found no trace of poi
son in the organs taken from the body
of Mrs. Emma Bostwick O'Donnell, of
Boston, the 62-year-old bride of a day
who died here while on her wedding
trip to the Pacific coast. Dr. O'Don
nell was the woman's fourth husband
and her will left him an estate of
$150,01)0. Relatives of the dead woman
requested an investigation.
BALKING AT SALE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
COPENHAGEN (via London), Aug
ust 6. While the belief still seems to
prevail that -a majority of the rigsdag
approves the sale of the Danish West
Indies to the I'nited States, the agita
tion against thus disposing of the
islands appears to be growing through
out the country, influential provincial
papers strongly denouncing the pro
losal. An open jneeting of the rigsdag
to discuss ratification of the transfer
has been fixed for next Thursday.
of
Determination of the part the asr
I
sociation will play in the coming
political campaign will awa.it the or- '
panizaticn's convention at Atlantic
City next month. Airs. Frank M.
Roessing, chairman of the congres
sional committee, indicated tonish;,
however, that the leasers favored a
vigorous fight on those representa
tives and senators who have opposed
the amendment.
"Surely there is no 'reason why ve
should fipht democratic or republican
members who are seeking re-election,
in cases where those nominees did
.ill tbey could to help ii in our fight
this winter," iid Mrs. Roessing.
"Nor is there any reason -why we
should not oppose men, no matter
vhat their party, who, during the
session, have done everything they
could to balk our plans."
