Tv ■ m
| Hughes Gets Great Reception on Arrival Presidential
HARRISBURG (hRhITELEGRAPH
LXXXV — No. 181
HUGHES OPENS
CAMPAIGN AMID
GREAT OVATION
In Impromptu Speech at De
troit Scores Strife Retween
Capital and Labor
NATIONAL WELFARE CLUR ?
Favored by Republican Nomi
nee; Two Addresses and
Many Conferences
By Associated Press
Detroit, Aug. 7.—Charles E. Hughes,
speaking to-day to forty manufactu
rers of Detroit and vicinity, employ
ing nearly 100,000 men, congratulated
them upon what they had done for
the welfore of their employes, told
them that the democracy of the United
States would not stand for a continua
tion of "this alleged strife between
capital and labor," and declared that
the American workman' should not be
regarded as a mere economic unit, but
as "a fellow worker, a human being."
Mr. Hughes' address was impromptu
and followed a brief speech by J. M.
Eaton, spokesman for the manufactu
rers, who outlined the welfare meas
urers for employes taken by indus
trial concerns here and suggested that
the nominee endorse a movement
looking to the formation of a natiohal
welfare association of manufacturers.
Mr. Hughes said he regarded the sug
gestion very favorably.
Speaks to Su:Yra£ists
A few minuter, later Mr. Hughes
spoke to a group of suffragists. The
day was hot and the air of the little
room where he received the manufac
turers and the suffragists was almost
stifling. The nominee spoke r with his
wife standing beside him.
Mr. Hughes reiterated in his address
to the suflragists his declaration in
New York that the suffrage question
phould be settled speedily by giving
the vote to women all over the coun
try. He added that he had formed
thi3 opinion long a?.i, before he
though that the time would ever
come when he would have to announce
his position publicly.
Not Mere Economic Units
In his address to the manufacturers
Mr. Hughes said in part:
"It is an awful mistake to think of
the men through whose activity pro
duction is possible as mere economic
units. They aro human beings. We
are all working men in this country.
We are in different spheres of activity,
but we ought to have a sense of co
operation so that every man takes
pride in what he is doing and in doing
it to the best of his ability because he
is working alongside of every other
man for the good of the country.
"The human factor is after all the
important factor. You may develop
your physical plants, your physical in
strumentalities, distribution and every
thing that goes to make up the ma
terial side of prosperity, but you are
absolutely hopeless without the human
factor, and in America, the land of
free men, the man who is at work for J
a living must feel that the country is I
doing the right thing by him. He is I
entitled to be safe in liis work, to have
every precaution taken against every
sort of accident that can be prevented.
Must Piotect Workmen
"A man is put at work. How can he
refuse the job which stands between !
him and starvation? It is perfectly
idle to say in our industrial conditions
that he can take or refuse the work,
according to his idea of the safety ap
pliances which may be provided to
protect him. You have got to protect
him. No man can \tfork In any position
where his life, his limb or his health
are subject to any unnecessary risk,
some job in a first-class way. That is
good business.
"We are not materialists in this
country; we are all idealists; but the
one thing that appeals to the work
ingman is the idea that .he is equal to
some job in a first-calss way. That is
what makes him proild; that is what |
makes him satisfied; and when you
consider our great industrial manu
facture and the enormous extension of
our industrial markets, the hope that
in all this there will be right through
it the spirit of human brotherhood, of
fellowship and of co-operation, so
that managers and workingmen will
feel that they are engaged in a com
mon cause.
"And we will get through with this
old strife between labor and capital.
Democracy cannot stand it. We are
not laborers and capitalists in this
country. We are fellow-citizens.
"That is what I stand for, and !
therefore, becaus-j you enrich our citi- I
zenship, because you build permanent l
the foundations of our society, I greet'
you and I wish you the best success in
your work."
Has Busy Afternoon
The afternoon was devoted to con
ferences with political leaders in Mich
igan, the visit to the baseball park, the
tour of local automobile plants and
the ' luncheon with newspapermen at
the Detroit Athletic Club.
Mr. Hughes' first speech of the even
ing was to be made shortly before 8
o'clock in the Arcadia Auditorium,
John Magnum, chairman of the Re
publican State Committee, was ex
pected to Introduce the candidate. At
the Light Guard Armory, where the
second speech was to be made, Mayor
Marx, of Detroit, was to make the in
troductory speech.
WILSOX BACK FROM CRUISE
By Associated Press
Washington. Aug 7. President
Wilson returned early to-day from a
week-end cruise down the Potomao
aboard the naval yacht Mayflower.
THE WEATHERI
Hnrrlahurg and Vldnltyi Gen
erally fair to-night. Tut-mlny prob
bly whoever*. Continued warm.
KaHtern Pennsylvania: Generally
fair to-night. Tuexdny partly
cloudy, probably showers. l.luht
south winds.
BY CARRIERS G CEBITS A WEEK.
SINGLE COPIES 2 CENTS.
MAYOR TRYING TO
GET STRIKERS AND
MUSSER TOGETHER
Action Follows Stormy Meeting
at Which Meals Condemns
Thorpe
"FOOL ADVISER," HE SAYS
Threatens to Detain Strike
Leader if He Makes In
flammatory Speeches
State and city authorties to-day
once more offered a helping hand to
ward amicably settling the controversy
between the striking trolleymen and
the Harrisburg Railways company.
Patrick Gilday, chief of the bureau
of mediation of the State department
of Labor and Industry, was expected
here this afternoon to represent the
Commonwealth in accordance with
Governor Brumbaugh's recent prom
ise to the strike leaders to arrange a
common meeting ground between
company officials and the strikers,
but not much is expected of this
effort.
Mayor E. S. Meals and City Solici
tor D. S. Seitz tried to arrange a sim
ilar conference with President Frank
B. Musser of the railways corpora
tion with a view to urging Mr. Musser
to meet the men.
Mr. Gilday's Conference
The directors of the trolley com
pany met just before noon with
President Frank B. Musser to con
sfder the letter from John Price
Jackson, Commissioner of the Depart
ment of Labor and industry, relative
to arrangements for a meeting with
Mr. Gilday.
Following this meeting President
Musser notified Commissioner Jack
son that there are '-no difficulties be
tween the company and its employes
at the present time to adjust" and
that "the oply question now presented
is that of permitting an outside or
ganization, having no interest in the
affairs of'the company, representing
a small portion of the former em
ployes. to assume the right to act for
all of our employes in discussing'
matters which have already been ad
justed. This we do not consider a
question for arbitration." The com-
[ConUnued on Page 10J
With Disagreement on
Exenjption of Retired Men
Army Bill Goes to Senate
By Associated Press
Washington, D. C„ Aug. 7.—House
conferees on the army appropriation
bill to-day finally declined to yield on
the Hay amendment to the articles of
war which would exempt retired of
ficers and men from the military crimi
nal code, and Senator Chamberlain
thereupon submitted to the Senate the
conference report with a disagreement
on that provision.
As reported the measure carries
$267,597,000 for the reorganized reg
ular army an<} ijational guard during
the coming year, a reduction from
$313,900,000 .carried ii) the bill as it
passed the Senate.
Representative Hay saw President
Wilson early in the day, but said later
the army bill was not mentioned. The
War Department objects strongly to
| the articles of war amendment.
Planning Four-day Trip
on Wm. Penn Highway
J. W. Donahey, William Penn road
governor for Allegheny county, is map
ping out what is to be called the "Key
stone tour," a four-day trip covering
650 miles in Pennsylvania, and the
William Penn Highway will be in
cluded in this tour in its entirety. "No
road in the eastern part of the United
States has a prettier scenia investiture
than the William Penn Highway, and
indications are that this thoroughfare
will break touring records this week,
las it has been breaking marketing
| records all summer.
There is but one section of the Wil
liam Penn Highway where the "goin"
is a little "off" at this time. That
occurs near Huntingdon, where the
| contractor is placing the rock foun
dation for four miles of new hihway,
necessitating a detour. In Westmore
land and Indiana counties the road
was never in better shape. From Cam
bria county east to Harrisburg the
highway is a continual surprise to
travelers. In this section there are 130
straightaway miles of permanent road,
passing through a country rich in
scenic beauty. Travelers from the
eastern or western sections of Penn
sylvania who have never passed
through the Lewistown Narrows or
the beautiful Juniata Valley should
avail themselves of the opportunity
j this week.
Tourists or agriculturists desiring
I definite informaUon regarding the Wil
liam Penn Highway should address
the secretary, M. H. James, at Harris
burg. V
SHOWERS EGPECTED TO-NIGHT
"Rather warm to-day" was the gen
eral opinion expressed by folks who
had to be on the move. The tem
perature was up to 90 at 10 o'clock.
That is not so warm, though, accord
ing to the local weather observer, E.
R. Demain. He says there will be
warmer days. The record is 93.6 de
grees. The highest reached yesterday
was 90. To-day started with a tem
perature of 78 degrees at 8 o'clock.
Thunder showers are expected to
night and to-morrow morning. Dur
ing the week showers will be frequent.
It will also be warmer, according to
to-day'e map. No new records are
looked for until later in the week, ac
cording to the local forecast to-day.
CORONER INVESTIGATES DEATH
Coroner Eckinger is investigating
the death of William E. Treadmore.
1421 Market street, employed by the
Adams Express Company, who was
found by his wife this morning. Dr.
G. A. Zimmerman was called In and
he notified the police department to
send the pulmotor. When the latter
arrived the man was dead. In the
room with the body was found a num
ber of bottles with New York labels,
containing various kinds of poisons!
Mr. Treadmore had been in ill health
for some time and had been worried
about financial troubles but the death
Is not believed to be of suicide.
HARRISBURG, PA., MONDAY EVENING, AUGUST 7, 1916.
LITTLE CONCERN
CAUSED BY STRIKE
IN PHILADELPHIA
Running Schedules Maintain
ed; Leaders Say 1,800 Out;
Company Claims 12
N. Y. TROURLE HANGING
Men Willing to Accept Tenta
tive of Agreement, but Em
ployers Are in Conference
By Associated Press
Philadelphia. Aug. 7.—The strike of
the members cf the Amalgamated As
j sociation of Street and Electric Rail
ways Employes was called by Harry
E. Flynn, president of the local divi
sion, at 3:30 this morning, but appar
ently there was no change in the run
ning schedule of the lines of the
Philadelphia Rapid Transit Company,
which operates all the street railways.
Flynn issued a statement saying 1,800
of the 4,700 employes of the com
pany had responded to the strike or
der and that several lines were tied
up and others crippled. Strike
breakers had replaced the men out, he
said.
Company officials asserted that only
a negligible number of men had quit
and that all lines were being operated
as usual. As a matter of precaution,
police were stationed at all carbarns
and powerhouses.
Thomas E. Mitten, president of the
transit company, issued a statement
to-day in which he said that every car
Is on schedule time and that
not more than twelve men had walked
out. Other company officials conceded
that 400 men are out. Only one crew
was reported on strike in the West
Philadelphia district.
Three strikers were arrested follow
ing an attempt to Interfere with a trol
ley crew.
The strike is the third in twenty
years in this city.
Settlement of New York
Street Car Strike Hangs
in Balance; Men Satisfied
By Associated Press
New York. Aug. 7.—Settlement of
the street railways strike in New York,
which has partly tied up the surface
lines of the city, hung in the balance
this afternoon. Striking employes of
the New York Railway Company 'o
day ratified a tentative agreement be
tweeen them and the company pro
posed by Mayor Mitchel and Public
Service Commissioner Straus, but the
directors of the company were con
sidering its ratification at a meeting
begun this forenoon and still in ses
sion this afternoon.
Uriion leaders said the men were
ready to go back to work if the agree
ment is ratified by the directors. In
substance the agreement provides, it
was learned: First, that the company
shall concede the men's rights to or
ganize; second, the company shall
agree to meet and deal with any men
whom the employes might select as a
committee in the even of differences
arising; third, the questions of wages
and hours of labor shall be placed in
the hands of committees'representing
both sides, for settlement if possible by
August 20; fourth, that if no agree
ment is reached by August 20, the dif
ference shall be referred to an impar
tial board of three citizens for arbi
tration.
William Penn Highway
Association Chartered
by Dauphin Court Today
The William Penn Highway Asso- 1
ciation was formally chartered to-day
by the Dauphin county court. Presi
dent Judge Kunkel signing the de
cree.
The association, according to the in
rorporation petition, has been formed 1
for the purpose of furthering the
maintenance and construction of a
permanent highway across Pennsyl
vania. leading from Philadelphia
through Harrisburg to Pittsburgh.
The incorporators are Frank B.
Bosch, Charles E. Covert, Robert
McCormick, William Jennings and W
R. Blough.
Sights Large Submarine
Bound West; May Be Bremen
By Associated Press
Machiasport. Maine, Aug. 7. Cap
tain Small, of the Cross Island coast
guard station, reported this morning
that his station had sighted a large
submarine, bound west. Its nationality
could not be determined, but the cap
tain said he had no doubt that it was
an undersea craft.
The submarine coming to the
surface when it was sighted and after
running awash fifteen minutes again
submerged. So far as can be learned,
there are no United States submarines
on the Maine coast.
The lookout ho sighted the sub
marine later said he had picked the
vessel up in clear weather five miles
to the southeast. As the vessel came
to the surface, the lookout said, he
heard several blasts from the signal
horn at the light house on Seal Island,
a British possession,
It is believed the keeper of the
lighthouse was signaling to the keeper
at Grand Manan light, also British
owned, that the submarine had been
sighted.
Immediately after the whistle sound
ed the submarine submerged. A few
moments later a haze set in and it
was impossible to see more than four
miles off Cross Island.
Lowell Dunn, the lookout on Cross
Island, later reported that he had
sighted a second submarine, consid
erably smaller than the first one.
CHARLES C. STEIXER ILL
Charles C. Stclner, 817 North Sixth
street, linotype operator on the Tele
graph, is ill at his home. Mr. Steiner
had a slight attack of vertigo yester
day. The excessive heat was also a
factor in Mr. Stelner's illness. He is ,
much improved to-day.
J. G. SANDERS. Ph. D.
Doctor Sanders, who has been appointed to succeed Dr. H. A. Surface
as State Zoologist, is a graduate of Oberlin University and has a national
reputation as an expert in economic zoology. He is at present State Zoolo
gist in Wisconsin and a professor in Wisconsin University. Prior to his ac
cepting these positions he was in the government service at Washington for
a number of years in charge of the Department of inspection of Imported
Plants. He is a member of a large number of scientific societies and the
author of many bulletins and pamphlets on orchard inspection, control of in
sect pests and the spraying of trees. He is 36 years old.
GROCERS PLAN
i LIVELY OUTING
Will Picnic at Hershey Thurs
day; to Hold Booster Automo
bile Parade Tomorrow
One big- flay is precftct'ed for Thurs
day, August 10, at Hershey Park. The
occasion will be the annual picnic. of
the Harrisburg Grocers' Association.
Indications are that 15,000 will attend.
Every effort is being made to break all
previous records.
The program will include band con
certs, sport contests, guessing matches
and many other interesting features.
A list of prizes will be completed to
night. It will require a car to take
care of the many trophies to be
awarded the winners. The prizes will
include umbrellas, gold pieces, pota
toes, lemons, hams, gold watches,
candy an'd other valuable articles.
To-morrow night there will be an
automobile parode as a booster for
the picnic. Plans were completed Sat
urday. It is said there will be 200
decorated automobiles in line. The
parade will form at Front and Market
streets and will cover all the principal
streets, including the Allison Hill dis
trict.
YORK MOTORIST KILLED
Lancaster, Pa., Aug. 7.—John Miller.
IS years old, of York, was almost in
stantly (filled and Samuel C. Haessler,
also of that city, was seriously hurt by
the wrecking of their automobile last
night. The men were on their way
from York to Lancaster and while driv
ing along the Columbia pike they were
blinded by the headlights of a rna
| chine coming in the opposite direction.
Haessler, who was driving, turned to
avoid an expected collision and crash
ed into a pole. Miller was caught in
the wreckage and was so badly hurt
I that he died shortly after being admi't
| ted to St. Joseph's Hospital. Haessler
I Is confined to the same institution, al
! though his injuries are not critical.
PLAGUE CONTINUES
UNABATED IN N. Y.
; 44 Deaths; 145 New Cases in
Last 24 Hours; Has Now
Killed 1,143
By Associated Press
New York, Aug. 7.—To-day marked
the beginning of the sixth week of the
epidemic of infantile paralysis and the
daily bulletin issued by the # Health
Department showed that the plague
) continues unabated. During the 24
hours preceding 10 o'clock this morn
ing, forty-four children died of the
disease in the five boroughs of New
York City and 145 cases were re
ported. Since the inception of the epi
demic there have been 5,166 cases of
which number 1,143 proved fatal.
[Continued on Page 5]
WOMAN STRUCK BY AUTO
DRIVEN BY LOCAL .MAN, DIES
While driving his automobile in |
Reading last evening, Elmer Garner,
1022 South Ninth street, ran into and
knocked down Mrs. Henry Harner, of !
Reading, at the railway crossing at
Seventh and Penn streets. The in
jured woman was taken to the hos
pital where she died a few minutes
later. Witnesses say that the woman
became bewildered when the machine
approached her and she walked di
rectly in front of the car. Garner sur
rendered himself to the police, but
was released pending an investigation.
CANVASS SENATE ON SUFFRAGE
By Associated Press
Washington, D. C., Aug. 7.—A can
vass of the Senate is being made by
Senator Thomas, chairman of the suf
frage committee, to learn whether it
will be possible without extended de
bate to get a vote at this session on a
Federal suffrage amendment. Senator
Shafroth, a White House caller to-day,
said he expected to see the vote taken.
SURFACE WORKS
ON ORCHARD PLANS
Bugmaster General Does Not
Seem Disturbed by Vari
ous Matters
Dr. H. A. Surf&W, Rtate Wtrtitlrrrtc
zoologist, is very much on the Job at
the State Capitol. Ho started on the
last week of his connection with the
State government payroll to-day by
making some plans for orchard inspec
tion and other work which would in
dicate that he is not disturbed over
the future.
The Pennsylvania bugmaster gen
eral, as he was called by some of his
friends at the time of his engage
ment with the powers, declined to
make any comments to-day but there
were intimations that he had a can or
two of explosive sticking around.
Dr. Surface did not get to see the
Governor during the executive's brief
visit to Harrisburg. He had planned
to call on him the afternoon of the
day that Secretary Patton secured Dr.
Brumbaugh's approval to the invita
tion to Prof. J. ,G. Sanders, Wisconsin
State entomologist, but the Governor
left town in such a hurry that he did
not have the pleasure of a call from
the scrappy scientist.
Prof. Sanders is understood to have
accepted the invitation in a formal
way. He accepted in an informal way
over two weeks ago and at the time
of his visit informed Dr. Surface, when
the zoologist told him he would be
after the place again two years hence,
that he could come after him and
the place all he chose. . ,
It is pretty broadly intimated that
in the movement of a change of ad
ministration occurring in 1919 that a
cyclone will hit the Department of
Agriculture very early in the year and
Dr. Surface is suspected of planning
to be pretty close in its wake.
SHOT TWICE IN
TRENCH ATTACK
Brother of John Grey, of Har
risburg, Seriously Wounded
in Fighting Along Somme
Word has been received by John
Grey, manager of the Lalance-Gros-
Jean tin plate plant, that his brother,
Ivor Grey, a memher of the signal
corps of the British army, has been
j seriously wounded in the "big push"
j of the Allies along ths Somme. Young
| Grey was struck in the shoulder by a
bullet and again in the leg. He was !
r«mo\ed to a base hospital, where he '
is at present recovering.
Grey was in a party that charged a '
German trench. They got within ten !
yards of their goal when the Germans j
opened on them with a machine gun.
Grey was dropped with a bullet in his'
shoulder and started for the rear. Be
fore he had gon<3 far he was struck in
the leg - and was carried to an arnbu-
I lance amid a rain of bullets.
The Greys aro natives of Wales.
Uncle Sam ds Printer
Raises Price of Work
Washington, Aug. 7.—Tho high prices'
for paper have been felt by members
of Congress in tho distribution of cam-1
paign literature. The result has been I
an unusual interest by Congressmen in i
the inquiry of the Federal Trade Com
mission into paper prices and repeated
demands for an investigation. I
The Government Printing Office has
announced substantial Increases in the
cost of printing speeches and docu
ments. Still greater increawes are to
follow, and the various campaign man
agers are busy getting in their orders
. ... w * £. ys ag .° Representative Can-' 1
trill, of Kentucky, cnalrman of the!
Democratic State Campaign Committee I
in the Blue Grass State, was forced to i
an ' ncreaße of »50 on an order of
1300 in campaign literature printed at
the Government office. This is an inV .
crease of 16 per cent.
TWO HIGHSPIRE
GIRLS MISSING;
FEAR ABDUCTION
Parents Scout Theory of
Double Elopement; Declare
Neither Had Sweetheart
GONE SINCE THURSDAY
Roth Worked in Steclton and
Went to Place of Employ
. ment as Usual
Parents and relatives of Miss Mary
May Conrad, daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
H. Conrad, residing at Railroad and
Water streets, and of Miss Ethel Lilly,
residing with her grandfather. William
Colbert, Water street, both of High
spire. are greatly concerned about
their disappearance, which took place
last Thursday.
According to the story of Mrs. Con
rad, mother of Mary May. both girls,
living but a few doors apart, work at
the Steelton Glove factory, for which
place they left Highspire, Thursday
morning. When they did not return
Thursday evening to their respective
homes, inquiries were made at their'
place of employment, but word was
sent back that neither of the two had
reported for work that morning.
Fears Abduction
The mother scouts the idea that the
girls had eloped and were married, but
she is a/raid that the girls had been
doped and abducted to some of the
larger cities by "white slave" agents,
and that she may never learn the fate
of her daughter.
Mrs. Conrad furnished the follow
ing description of the two girls Mary
May Conrad, a trifle less than five feet
tall, age 15 years, chestnut brown hair,
slender built, wore a white bobinet
waist, dark yellow skirt, black pumps,
gray straw hat. one ankle is slightly
crooked; Ethel Lilly, age 14 years, a
trifle larger and heavier than Miss
Conrad wore a red plaid gingham
dress, shepherd's plaid coat and gray
straw hat.
The mother declares that to the best
of her knowledge neither of the two
girls had sweethearts and'she is at a
loss to account for their disappearance
under any other pretext than that they
were doped in some manner and ab
dtrtted.
' Y- " ————^
w »»<yv»ii »«<j/v ■> ««^i>
New York, Aug. 7.—The efforts of Mayor Mitchel and \
of .Public Service 'Commissioner Straus to settle the railway I
i strike in New York failed to-day. After a protracted meet- ?
irithe directors of the New York Railways Company de- 1
} clined at this time to ratify the tentative agreement pro- f
posed by the two public officials as a basis for a settlement, f
PASSENGER AND FREIGHT COLLIDE HEADON '
Reading, Pa.—Through misunderstanding of orders a
hcadon collision occurred this morning at Elsmere June- 1
U tion on lington and Northern branch of the Read- i *
j! ing betwt . . freight and passenger train. Both loco- 1
!' motives werp badly damaged and six people slightly in M
9 jured. The injured—A. T. Johnson, fireman, ;Ji ,
1 Howard McGoxvan, brakeman; W.'E. Walls, engineer; C. 1 <
a Stecn, agent at MbrtorixHffle; Mrs. John Coffrey, Coatesville
I Erftkial Smith, Coatesville: Miss Elsie Kipe, Chadds Fori I
! RAILROADERS FAVOR STRIKE 1
New York, Aug. 7.—The task of counting the votes of <L
• approximately 400,000 railroad employes on the question of |
i> 9 authorizing a general strike in the event that their demands i
!l fr an eight-hour day and time and a half pay for
are finally denied, was completed just before noon to-day, |
it was announced at headquarters iiere of the four railroad L
brotherhood Although no official statement could be ob- j
tained as to the result, it was learned from an authoritative I
source that the vote was overwhelmingly in favor of a strike. 1 *
D
f ?
if FIRE IN CAMERON STREET 1
, Harrisburg.—An alarm for fire was sent in at 4 o'clocki ►
this afternoon from Box 51, Cameron and Herr streets. A »
( , small frame dwelling, just above Herr, in Cameron street,, »
' is burning. The blaze is under control. ||
< 1 )\
fbIAKKIAGh LICENSES «*
Joacph Flabrr, Jr., and Ethel Adallne Black. CltT.
m-rjSrlTu "** Clela,uI ' C«wllale, and Clara Saaana Viola Huna, ;
£ ESTi'* Cnlpln, Scrantou. and Pearl Gelhach, city.
V JTml.h" d °]'\r r Ircnp Irlnaer, Mlddletovrn. ■ >
Jamea Edlehlutte. d«y, and Franrea Drayer, Plnetown. , >
D' W' "w» »i i^il ii »ny|)iii"iwiA
12 PAIGES CITY EDITION
WHOLE AUSTRIAN
| LINE ENDANGERED
BY RUSS VICTORY
Capture Strongly Fortified Po
sitions in Northern Galicia;
Nearer Lemberg
FRENCH HOLD GERMANS
| Unable to Win Rack Any of
Lost Territory; Turks Suf
fer Crushing Defeat
General Brussiloff is pressing his
offensive against the Teutonic allies
in northern Galicia where the pass
age of the river Sereth was recently
forced by the Russians along a wide
front south of Brody. Petrograd to
day reports rurther advances for the
Russians with the capture of strongly
fortified positions along the Sereth
and Graberka.
The forward push of the Russians
in this sector is not only bringing
them closer to Lemberg on the direct
line of advance but is pointed out
by military critics as likely seriously
to endanger the entire Austrian front
[Continued on Porc* 7]
Placing of Taxes on
Small Incomes Opposed
Washington, Aug. 7.—The Democrats
of the Senate Finance Committee who
voted Saturday to lower the exemp
tions of the income tax. to-day awaited
the verdict of the country and the pro
tests from within their own party. The
amendment would lower the exemp
tion for persons with families from
SI,OOO to $3,000 and for single persons
from $3,000 to $2,000.
The decision, it is said, will not be
ratified by the Damocratic caucus with
out a vigorous fight.
The subcommittee, of which Senator
Gore is chairman, but in his atffcence.
led by Senator James, of Kentucky, de
cided not to lower the exemption from
its present status of $3,000 for single
men and $4,000 for married men. Thoy
favored taxing the larger incomes and
decided to add a surtax of 13 per cent,
to incomes in excess of $1,000,000, mak
ing the tax on these incomes 15 per
cent. The opposing Democratic Sena
tors are more inclined to political ex
pediency than to recognition of such a
dire need of revenue as to require low
ering the exemption of $2,000 for single
and $3,000 for married men.
