I I Wsfcial Prices ffll A ft C fiLi V r vX j 4 P. ML CITY EDITION I
II &i$23' CPPCP' 1 ZS Showers Tonight or Tuesday; Warr. Ifl
'"" Va r T or Tonight In East and South Por- fl
jS' FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. ' II
-0rty'SXth Year""N' 188' -vc OGDEN CITY, UTAH, MONDAY EVENING, AUGTTTgie. as second b,- at th. Postofnc., II
I Crushing Defeat for Turks Near Suez Canal II
I Austrian Army Is Rapidly Being Outflanked I
RUSSIAN ADVANCE ENDANGERS
ENTIRE AUSTRIAN BATTLEFRONT
; General Brusiloff Pressing Offensive Against Teutonic Allies
5 in Northern Galicia Strongly Fortified Positions Are
Captured Heavy Fighting on Western Front Ger
; mans Unsuccessful in Attempts to Regain Lost
J f Ground Intense Fire on the Somme.
Vj General Brusiloff 1b pressing his of-
X fensive against the Teutonic allies
in northern Galicia where the pass
i age of the river Sereth was recently
j forced hy the Russians along a wide
:; front south of Brody. Petrograd to
,' day reports further advances for the
Russians with, the capture of strong-
ly fortified positions along the Sereth
and the Graberka,
The forward push of the Russians
in this sector is not only bringing
( them closer to Lemberg ou the direct
line of advance, hut is pointed out by
military critics as likely seriously to
endanger the entire Austrian front
J along the Stripa, to the south, which
is rapidly being outflanked.
Heavy fighting continues on the
western front in, the Verdun region,
i According to Paris, however, the Ger
mans have been entirely unsuccessful
in their efforts to regain ground lost
I to tbe French in General Nieville's
vigorous offensive of last week. An
j attack on the Thiaumont work is de
i clared to have been checked at the
outset by the French fire barrier,
? while an assault in the Vaux-Chapitre
j woods was broken up by the artillery
' i and machine guns.
j In the field of tho allied offensive
) along tho Somme today's Paris state
ment reports only artillery activity
C wbich, however, was intense in the
I region of Chaulnes north of the river.
British reports of the fighting east
of the Suez canal, in Egypt, show a
crushing defeat for the Turks, who
are said to have lost one-fourth of
their effectives which numbered some
14,000 men.
Petrograd, Aug. 7, via London, 3:18
p. m. Further "successes fon the Rus
sians along the Sereth and Graberka
rivers in northern Galicia south of
I Brody, were announced by the war
'.' office today. The Russians captured
; strongly fortified positions in the re
gion of the villages of Zvyjin, Kostl
nieo and Reniuv.
"A squadron of seven enemy aero
' planes bombarded several points in
ft tho region east of tho Stokhod river,
causing but little damage.
"At some places along the Stokhod
the enemy took the offensive but ev
erywhere was replied. Our offen
sive continues in the regions of Gra
' berka and Sereth rivera. Our troops
captured strongly fortified positions
of the enemy in the vicinity of the
villages of Zvyjln, Kontlnlec, and Hc
niuv. Fierce bayonet encounters took
' place In tho woods In this region. The
enemy made counter attacks. Engage
ments are proceeding under difficult
conditions owing to uninterrupted
i rains having reduced tho soil almost
I to a morass."
a Germane Meet Defeat.
I Paria, Aug. 7, 12 noon. The re-
pulse of German attacks at Thiaumont
and in tho Vnux and Chapltre woods
in the Verdun sector is announced in
the official statement issued by the
A French war office this afternoon.
The statement records a vigorous
I artillery duel north of tho Somme and
I in the region of Chaulnes. The
i' French screen fir checked the Ger-
man attack at Thiaumont. In the
K Vaux-Chapitre woods the Germans
; preceded their attack by a heavy bom
',' bardment, but their efforts to ad-
, vance were frustrated by the mar
chine gun fire and rifle fire of the
m French.
7 Three German aeroplanes are said
II to have been brought down on the
Somme front and two captive bal
loons destroyed.
Intense Artillery Fighting.
.The text of the statement follows:
"North of the Somme and In the
region of Chaulnes there was intense
artillery fighting. On the right bank!
of the Meuse (Verdun front) after
artillery preparations, the Germans
delivered an attack at Thiaumont
works. Checked by our curtain of
fire, the enemy was not able to ad
vance, being thrown back on leaving
his trenches. In the Vaux-Chapitre
woods an attack was delivered by
the enemy at about 7:30 o'clock last
n'ght after a heavy bombardment. It
was broken by the fire of our artillery
and machine guns and failed com-,
pletely. On the remainder of the
front the night was calm.
"On the Somme front our aviators
in numerous combats. Three ma
chines were brought down, one near
Roiglise, the second in the vicinity
of Omiecourt, the third north of Nes
le. Three other enemy machines were
damaged seriously and compelled to
land behind their own lines. Finally,
two captive balloons were destroyed.
On the night of August 6-7 French
aerial squadrons carried out the fol
lowing operations successfully.
"Twenty bombs were dropped on
the railway station at Metz-Sablouz,
thirty on the railway station at Thlon
ville, twenty-five on factories at
Rombach, north of Metz and twelve
on military camps near Etaln.'r
jGreat Fire In Italy.
Paris, Aug. 7, 1:50 p. m. A great
fire in a forest near Savona, Italy,
along a front of nearly three miles,
is reported in a Havas dispatch from
Rome. Two thousand soldiers have
been sent to fight the fire; the cause
of which is unknown.
London Board of Trade.
London, Aug. 7, 4 p. m. The Board
of Trade report for July shows that
imports 'increased 1.04S.604 pounds,
and exports increased 11,'601,546
pounds. The principal increases in
exports were 1,750,000 pounds, in cot
ton: 1,040,000 pounds in wool, and
1,031,000 pounds in iron and steel.
London, Aug. 7, 3:55' p. m. Appre
hension exists as to the fate of the
British prisoners taken at the time
of the surrender of Kut-el-Amara to
the Turks. Lord Robert Cecil said in
the house of commons today that re
peated Inquiries had been made
through the American embassy at
Constantinople to ascertain the where
abouts of these prisoners, but that no
reply had been received from the
porte. This, he said, inspired consid
erable misgivings as the prisoners
were compelled, after the fall of Kut-el-Amara,
to cross the desert at the
worst season of the year.
Germans Recapture Positions.
Berlin, Aug. 7. Via London, '4:48
p. m. German troops have recaptured
portions of the trench which had been
taken by the British near Pozieres,
on the Somme front, It was officially
announced today by the German army
headquarters.
In the Carpathians, the German
statement adds, German troops have
recaptured portions of the trench
which had been taken by the British
near Pozieres, on tho Somme front,
it was officially announced today by
the German army headquarters.
In the Carpathians, the German
I SO IE PEOPLE MAY KNOW
f That at this time the most prosperous period that Og
den has ever enjoyed there are people in this community in
) want and distress. Not people who have received that position
' through shiftlessness, carlessness or extravagance; but people
f of our Best blood people of the heroic class who have let
W fathers, sons and husbands their means of support go to
! v the front to protect their country
tl Now it's up to the people of Ogden to take care of these
jJR dependents until such time as government relief is offered
,JM What are we going to do about it?
11 National Guard Benefit Fund Ogden Standard, $50.00
Ml a month for 12 months; Dr. Kanzler, $2.00 a month for 12
M months; Methodist Sunday School, $5.00;' Oracle Theatre,
a monilh for 6 months; A, W. Meek, $1 .00; C. B. Sears,
tSs' $5.00; O. A. Parmley,.$5.G0;.Dr. P Mills, professional
IJik: service, $5,00. "
,Bf wL
statement adds, German troops have
gained the Plalk and Deeskowata
heights on the Cheremoch river. ,
oo '
BOMB EXPLOSION
AT TAXI BUILDING
Chicago, Aug. 7. A series of as
saults on drivers of Shaw Taxicab
company's automobiles representing
effortc to unionize the chauffeurs, ac
cording to John W. Hertz, manager
of the company, culminated today in
the explosion of a bomb at the rear
of the Shaw company's building.
Although 150 automobiles were In
tho building, little damage was done
to them. Guests in several nearby
hotels were frightened by the detonation.
iSffmaii
Boat Seen Running Awash
by Coast Guard Captain
Thought to Be the
Bremen.
Machias Port, Maine, Aug. 7.
Captain Small of the Cross' island
coast guard station reported this
morning that his station had sighted
a large submarine westbound. Its
nationality could not be determined,
but the captain said he had no doubt
that it was an undersea craft. The
submarine was coming to the surface
when it was sighted and, after run
ning awash fifteen minutes, again
submerged. It was thought that the
vessel might be the German submar
ine Bremen. So 'far as can be learned
there are no United States submar
ines on the Maine coasL
The lookout who sighted the sub
marine later said that he picked the
vessel up in clear weather five miles
to the southeast. As the vessel came
to the surface the lookout said he
heard several blasts from the signal
horn at the lighthouse on Seal Island,
a British possession.
It is believed that the keeper of the
lighthouse was signalling to the keep
er at Grand Manan Ligh, also British
owned, that a submarine had been
sighted.
Immediately after the whistle
sounded the submarine submerged. A
few moments later a haze set in and
it was Impossible to se more than
four miles off Cross Island.
"I was standing on the hill looking
out to sea through my glass," said
Dunn. "It was perfectly clear at the
time while the water was smooth. The
first of the two submarines appeared
from beneath the surface at about
8:25 o'clock, and I should judge that
her hull was ten or twelve feet out
of water. Although she was at a dis
tance -of more than five miles off
shore I could plainly make out what
appeared to be a small towor in the
middle of the vessel.
"I watched her for a few minutes
and, then shifting ray glasses l saw
another smaller submarine a mile
ahead of her Both were bound to
the westward."
Not American Boat.
Washington, Aug. 7. Navy officers
said today no American submarines
were known to be anywhere in the
vicinity of Cross Island. They thought;
the boat sighted there might be the
German merchant submersible
Deutscbland on her homeward voyage
or her sister shlpf the Bremen, bound
in for the United States.
oo
Writes President Wilson Bit
terly Protesting Against Re
appointment of a Re
publican. Washlntgon, Aug. 7. Senator Shaf
roth of Colorado carried to the White
House today tho resignation of Judge
Thomas D. Stuart of the First Hawai
an judicial circuit, who wrote Presi
dent Wilson several weeks ago an
nouncing his intention to resign and
protesting bitterly against the re-appointment
of William J. Robertson, a
Republican, a3 chief justice of the
supreme court of Hawaii. Officials
said the resignation would bo accept
ed immediately. Judge Stuart was a
citizen of Colorado before' going to
Hawaii.
. no
Organizations have cut the working
. day from 12 hours to 9 at Fajardo,
I Porto Rico. - -
TURKS DRAWN
INTO A TRAP
British Cavalry Entices Enemy
Into Rear Guard Action
Whole Brigade Com
pelled to Surrender.
London, Aug. JT. The recent at
tempt of the Turks to reach the Suez
canal has proven a greater failure
than the earlier reports indicated.
Lleuenant-General Sir Archibald
James Murray, commander of the
British troops In Egypt, reports today
that besidos taking more than 3,000
prisoners in the battle with the Turks ,
at Roman!, has forces inflicted very
heavy losses on them an had con
tinued the pursuit of the retreating
troops for 18 miles, clearing the Turks
from the Katia basin.
Military writers are unable to fath
om the reason why the Turks ven
tured upon their attacks. The only
conclusion reached is. that the Turkish
military authorities were misled as to
the British preparations for the de
fense of the canal and hoped to make
an impression on the rebellious Arabs
who are extending their hold on im
portant places in Arabia.
The Turkish advance as far as Ro
mani was made in the face of the
greatest difficulties, their six-inch
guns being dragged across the desert
by oxen after rails of planks had
been placed to prevent the wheels
sinking into the sand. ,
London, Aug. 7, 10:55 a. m. A des
cription of how the Turks were drawn
into a trap at Romani by British cav
alry is given, Irii a. Cairo, dispatch to
the Exchange "Telegraph company.
The dispatch says the cavalry was
sent out to entice the enemy who had
shown a disposition to assume the of
fensive. The British horsemen found
an admirable rear guard action, says
the dispatch, and drew on the Turks
until their flanks were turned by the
mounted division. A whole brigade
was compelled to surrender. Among
tho prisoners were 70 Germans, in
cluding 36 officers. A complete bat
tery of German guns was also taken.
The statement follows:
"In reference to the fighting yes
terday In the Katia district, the gen
eral officer comminding-in-chief in
Egypt reports that our artillery, rifle
and machine gun fire was most effec
tive and that the Turkish Josses in
killed or wounded appear from all ac
counts to have been very heavy. Late
on the evening of the 5th of August,
territorial infantry gallantry carried
a strong rear guard position. 8 Our
pursuit of the Turks has been con
tinued for a distance of 18 miles and
they are now well clear of the Katia
Umaisha basin.
"The number of un wounded prison
ers taken by us now amounts tQ 45
officers and 3,100 men, and they are a
very fine body of men."
British Capture 3,145 Turks.
London. Aug. 7, 12:50 p. m. The
number of unwounded Turks captured
by the British at the battle at Romani
was 3145, according to an official
statement issued by the war office to
day. The statement says that the Turks
were pursued for 18 miles. The pur
suit continued beyond Katia which Is
23 miles east of tho Suez canal.
1600 Prisoners at Cairo.
Cairo, Egypt, via London, Aug. 7,
0:05 a. m. Sixteen hundred Turkish
prisoners have arrived here. They
are part of the army which attacked
the British positions at Romani.
auhd
Loaded With Explosives
Caused Conflagration at
Black Tom Island Cap
tain Alive and WelL
New York, Aug. 7. Attorneys for
the Johnson Lighterage company, the
president of which has been accused
of manslaughter with three others on
charges growing out of the explosion
of munitions on Black Tom Island re
cently, today announced that barge
No. 24, owned by the Lighterage com
pany and alleged by the Lehigh Val
ley Railroad company to have been
the primary factor In the explosion,
had been located today off the foot
of Morris street, Jersey City. The
captain of the barge reported to
have been killed by the explosion,
was alive and well, the law office con
tends. It Is contended that the barge,
loaded with explosives, blew up and
.started the conflagration on Black
Tom Island which did more than $20,-
Republicans of the State
Meet in Ogden Tomorrow II
IS GIVEN PLACE ON
FARM LOAN BOARD
Capt. W. S. A. Smith.
Capt. W. S. A. Smith of Sioux
City, Iowa, is probably the best
known farmer on the newly appoint
ed, farm, loan board. While still a
young ".nan he quit the sea for tho
farm and has since become well
known to farmers as a writer on
farm finance and farm management.
000,000 damage and killed four per
sons. oo
SIXTMEHOF
Forty-four Children Die in 24
Hours 145 New Cases
Total 1,143 Deaths and
5,168.
New York, Aug. 7. Today marked
the beginning of the sixth week of
the epidemic of infantile paralysis,
and tho dally bulletins issued by the
health department showed that the
plague continues unabated. During
the 4 hours preceding 10 o'clock this
morning, forty-four children died of
tho disease in the five boroughs of
New York City, and 145 new cases
.were reported. Since the Inception of
the epidemic there have been 5.1GS
cases, of which 1,143 proved fatal.
Three new cases were reported In
Jersey City today.
oo
mm woman
WINS INPRIMARY
Suffragist Leader Defeats Op
ponent for Nomination for
Congress on Democrat
Ticket.
Topeka, Kansas, Aug. 7. It became
certain today that Dr. Evan Harding
of Topeka, a suffragist leader, had
won the Democratic nomination for
congressman in tho first district over
the Rev. j. h. Corwine in the recent
state-Avide primarv. Dr. Harding,
whose majority wacs 608, Is the only
woman congressional candidate in tho
for the coming election.
oo
FLOOD IN MALAD VALLEY.
Malad, Idaho. Aug. G It was re
ported here this afternoon that the
heavy rainstorm in the northwestern
part of the vallev had done consider
able damage to tho crops. The Jen
sen road loading from this valley
Into Bannock valley is almost im
passable. In some sections the flood
carried boulders and brush through
grain fields.
oo
aiik mill employes at WJlkes-Barre,
Pa., have secured a nine-hour day.
Sherman, Texas,has Installed a freo i
municipal labor bureau.
I ' I
Leaders of the Party Begin to Arrive and Headquarters of j
Candidates Are Being Established in Hotels and Eccles
Building Salt Lake Delegation Expected to Arrive at 9 ,
O'clock in the Morning Band Will Meet the Special
Trains and Head the Paraders to the Alhambra Theater
. Loges of Theater Reserved for Guests of Principal Candi- i
dates Mayor A. R. Heyvood to Make Keynote Speech
Fight Over Governor Is the Big Battle. i
Important announcements concerning arrangements for 1
the Republican state convention to be held in the Alhambra j
theater tomorrow beginning . at .' 1 1 a. m. were made by '
Charles R. Hollingsworth, chairman of the Weber county Re
publican organization, this afternoon. The arrangements em
brace a carefully worked out program which will facilitate the
work of. the convention by the prevention of conflicts and the '
preservation of order while the convention is in session. Mr. :
Hollingsworth said the committees had overlooked no details
in the preparations and that the indications now were that the
Republicans of Utah would be rewarded with one of the great
est state conventions in the history of the party in the state.
Although delegates from various parts of the state con
tinued to arrive in the city on every train, the bulk of the dele
gates will not reach the city untii late tonight or early in the j
morning. I
j A special Bamberger train yill ar
rive at 9 o'clock bringing a large deler
gation from Salt Laker" This delega
tion will be met at the station by
prominent local Republicans and some
Salt Lake Republicans who preceded
their friends to the city and an Ogden
band, whose services has been en
gaged for the day. The band will
escort the delegation to the Alhambra
theater, where the members will cau
cus, going in session at 0:15. The
band will also meet the 10 o'clock
Bamberger train to escort what-'Other
delegates that might arrive to the con
vention theater.
Chairman Hollingsworth stated that
it was likely there would be demon
strations by each of the delegations,
as intense enthusiasm exists over the
state, and he predicted the demonstra
tion by the Salt Lake delegation would
be one of the noisiest.
Unless some1 trades are made todaj
there will be a hot fight in tomorrow's
Republican state convention to be
held In the Alhambra theater, begin
ning at 11 a. m. This is the opinion
of party leaders as well as those who
are not taking any active part in the
preliminaries to the convention. The
latter are In the minority, however,
due to the fact that widespread In
terest Is being manifested in the pro
hibition question which has been in
jected Into the campaign.
Leaders say the fact there are so
many candidates for each place on tho
stnte ticket presages spirited contests
that are likely to develop into bitter
feeling, but that withal there is a gen-j
oral disposition for harmonizing and
that this will tend to unite the fac
tions on anyone of the candidates that
might be viewed as a satisfactory
compromise and who, therefore, would
have a big advantage at the election
contest in November. This view is
taken by Republicans more desirous
of the party's success at the polls
than the success of any candidate in
the nominating convention.
"We want a strong ticket, and we-re
coing to have it," Is the statement go
ing the rounds. "The Republican
narty proposes lo assert itself at 4he
November election. We have had
enough of Democracy."
The Candidates.
Candidates for nomination as they
appear now are as follows:
For governor William Spry, Nephi
L. Morris, Edward E. Jenkins, Oscar
W. Carlson, John C. Mackay and D. O.
Rideout of Salt Lake county, L. R.
Anderson of Sanpete county; John
"W. Thornley of Davis county.
For secretary of state David Matt
son .of Weber, Lincoln G. Kelly of
Millard. Han's A. Pederson of Cache,
Jesse G. Jewkes of Emery, Heber L.
Cummings of Salt Lake.
For attorney general Harold P. Fa
bian, William M. McCrea. G. A. Iver
son of Salt Lake, L. L. Baker of
Tooele, John F. Chldester of Sevier.
For state treasurer David H. Mad
sen of Utah, Carl R. Marcusen of Car
bon, Ray Barton of Beaver.
For state auditor W. A. Leatham
of Salt Lake, .Joseph Jensen of Box
Elder, Charles Helner of Morgan, T.
C. Winn of Juab.
For state superintendent of public
instruction E. G. Gowans of Salt
Lake.
For judge of the supreme court
D. N. Straup of Salt Lalce, A. H.
Chrlstensc-n of Sanpete, J. A. Howell
of Weber, Frank Evans of Salt Lake.
For United States Bonator George
Sutherland and Goorge G. Armstrong
of Salt Lake.
Candidates for congress, who will 1
gome up jn tho First and Second I
congressional district conventions the I
day following the state convention, I
First congressional dlstriot Joseph I
Howell of Cache. T. C. Hoyt of We-
ber, T. M. O'Donnell of Uinta, Jacob M
Johnson of Sanpete. I
Second congressional district T. L. H
Holman, R. W.- Salisbury. A. R; H
Barnes, James Devine, W. E. Rydalch,
all of Salt Lake, Charles R. Mabey of
Davis.
Governor Spry. I
Governor Spry, who is a candidate I
to succeed himself, subject to the I
nominating convention, stands on his I
own record. Those who have followed
closely tho events of his administra-
Hon through two terms, insist' that he
has been working for the best inter- I
ests of Utah and that, therefore, he I
lsentitled to election for a third term I
The governor has announced his in- H
tention of standing squarely upon the I
platform adopted at the convention,
should he get the nomination. His H
principal opposition Is to be found
among the "drys," who .are working to
havp a prohibition plank incorporated I
in the platform and who do not accept I
the governor's promises. I
Speculating as to what action will I
be taken at tho convention, leaders
of the Spry movement point out that
the governor's actual strength will be
shown when the first ballot Is taken, H
and will disclose him to be in the lead I
and that as a result there will be Ifl
some trades made in order that the I M
governor may win the vote required III
for the nomination. In the event
that ho does not develop the strength IH
In votes that is expected for him, it Ifl
is stated that the "drys" will insist
on unity for their candidate, who. Ifl
probably, will be selected from the list
as announced. In the event of fall- Ifl
ure to nominate their candidate, lead Ifl
ers of the Spry movement, it is stated Ifl
on authority, propose to run in a dar'" I
horse, as a "compromise candidate." IH
(Continued on Page 7.) Ifl
oo H
Deportation of French Women H
and Girls From Homes by H
Germans Considered Re- H
prehensible. H
Paris, Aug. 7, 5:30 a. m. The pope, fl
after a ' careful study of the protest H
against the deportation of inhabitants
of northern France, has decided to
make a protest to Germany, accord- H
lng to a news dispatch from Rome
received here.
Tho protest was sent to the popo
by the bishop of Lille and the arch- H
bishop of Rbeims. It is stated that
the popo will ask Berlin that at least $
women and young girls be sent back
to their homos, and that he will pub
llcly express his reprobation of tho
action of the German military author!- -M
ties if his protest is ignored.
Union bakers at Salt Lake City ll
have secured an Increase of 15 per lfl
cent In wages. IH
