MR. MERCHANT.
An ad In Th Eagle will bring buyer
and teller together. ,
Tonight and Tuesday, partly c
with local thunder showers.
ffc If
AND PILOT
VOL. XXX. NO. 188.
BRYAN, TEXAS, MONDAY, AUGUST 7, 1916.
PRICE (4X3 PER Af "JH
1 1
mm l aming
Fruits and Vegetables
Green Beam
Bulk Turnips
Freth Cabbage
Cala. Carrots
Peppers, Parsley
Tomatoes, Okra
Elberta Peaches
Mologa Qrapea
Cal. Oranges
Grapefruit
Bananaa
Green Apples
Hardy Newton
Choice Beef, Veal,8auaage, Hams, Etc, In the Market.
WE WANT YOUR AUGUST TRADE.
STRIKE OVERWHELM
W FAVORED
Complete Count of Votes In the Rail
way Strike Is Completed and
Shows Strike Is Favored.
(By Aseoclata Press
New York. Aug. 7. The counting
of the votes of the railroad employes
on the aueat'.on of calling ft strike
was completed today an t an over
whr.lmlng majority favorjl th J strike,
History of Strike
New York. Aug. 7. The crista In
time In drafting the strike ballot, and
In order to expedite the vote caused
their distribution throughout the
country by the 600 union delegates
who had attended the conference.
It was pointed out at that time by
the Brotherhoods' leaders that a. rote
ordering a general strike did not nec
essarily mean the Immediate Institu
tion of the strike. It was explained
that the strike order would not be
T
In
E
EAST OF SUEZ'
cm
i
The March of Russians Is Steadily Forward and!
lCvv lvliliui y aiiu x ivii m. vsoiiiuua rxi w saving
ern Front is Heavy With No Decisive Re
sultsThe British Report the Turks Crushed
East of Suez Canal and 3100 Prisoners Taken.
There Were No Americans on the Italian
Steamer Sunk by a Submarine in the Medit
eranean Sea Last Week.
(By Associated Pre" )
London, Aug. 7- Petrograd report
ed further advancea for the Russians
and the capture of atrengly fortified
Usued until every effort looking to-1 positions along the Stereth and Cra-
ward an amicable settlement had
been exhausted.
In statements Issued by the railroad
heads, following the break up of the
beraka Rivers.
Hesvy fighting contlnuss In the
Verdun region, but Paris says the
Germane were entirety unsuccessful
A VERY SERIOUS
STABBING AFFRAY
OUR ALULUIWU SALE IS
STILL Oil
When you buy goods here for cash be sure to get a Card
When you pay your account be sure to have your
card punched.
Reid Bros.
CONFESSED fl
DERER
Til
Houston Wagner, Confeaaed Murderer
of Miss Zola Cramer at Dallas, la
on Trial Today.
(By Associates rreas)
GREAT HEAT WAVE
Two Cad and Many Prostrations la
New York Five Dead In
' St Louis.
hour day demanded by the men Hid
not actually mean a shorter workday,
but rather an Increase of 25 per cent
k ..n.n.4 .itn.iinn m-ia reached In over existing wagea for the same
UIO I . i.u 1 -
this city on June 35, last, when the! amount of work, and an Increase in
neaas, to lowing me ureas-up oi mo ..i ,u.i. it
. . " .w. n their efforts to regain their lost
conference, It wss held that the eight-
conference between the representa
tives of 236 railroad systems in the
United States and 400,000 employes
failed to arrive at an adjustment of
their differences. The conference be
gan June 1 following the presentation
on March 30 of Amende by the men
many cases of 87 H per cent for over
time as compared with present rates.
The demands pertain only to freight
and not to passenger service.
The railroads maintained that to al
low the Increase would add $100,000,-
000 a year to the operating expensee
UU WMvw ev v J v ' w i v v w
for an eight-hour day and time and a 0f an roads In the I'nlted States, "for
halt overtime. the benefit of men whose average pay
It had been hoped that the confer-; pr day waa Increased from 30 to 42
nca mlRht make unnecessary the tak
Ing of a atrike vote by referring the
questions at Issue to arbitration.
After bearing the- demanda of thje
union, however, the raUroada declined
to make a counter proposal add dia
per cent from 1903 to 1914, while the
wagea of the Western engineers were
further Increased In 1915."
The men's proposition submitted at )(
m .1 A 1AAI
the conference proiaea mai iuv
miles or less, or eight hours or less
cround
. There Is an Intsnss artillery activ
ity near Chautneaa, on the 8omma
River.
The Brltiah official report eaye the
Turka have been cruahed eaat of the
Quel Canal, 3100 prisoners being tak
en. The British also gslnsd In Car
man East Africa. ....-
British Cptured Turks.
(By Associated Press.)
London. Aug. 7. Three thousand.
one hundred and forty-five unwound-
ed Turka were captured by the Brit
ish In a battle of Romania, according
to the official statement The cap
ture waa made after 18 miles pursuit
(By Associated Presa.)
New York. Auk. 7. With two dead
rii.,. Tn in t Hnn.tnn ! and man v prostrations aunng me laai
I lSMiBqt V ao -
Wagner, negro, was placed on trial i H hours, tne judications are wa u
A. Laraon la Serioualy 8tabbed by today ,n gute ttrtrlct .Conrt for previous recorda In humidity will be
Wiley McKnlght Saturday Night ,. .., ... -,. v. r,jninr ; broken today. The temperature waa
a Liin iuuiudi w l i-iiob m v wm ' va j m i
Both Good Roada Men. . . - hn WMi 78 at 10 o'clock, but the humidity waa
atrangled to death on the campua of '9. It waa 100 once thla year,
the Oak Cliff high school here on the
-Li.. if v. aa i..t l.AHIiiln rwnui in ww -""
iu uws " r - ' uiuea or ie, ur ciu
missed the subject by offering to fur i gnoui, constitute a dsy, with over
L - . . 1. imwnA "lOTl. I ... ... . -.
tner aiacuss wui moj - tlme beginning at tae expirauon oi
tatlve proposition" wtrlch gTanted the I - t nourl on , of leii tnan ioo
.... - ' - I W.., MfllMil I .
men's eight hour demand but refused
all others.
The unions declined to consider the
"tentaUve" offer and the railroads
then suggested placing their differ
encea before the Interstate Commerce
Commission for decision, or If thst
body waa without authority, that both
Mm loin In petitioning Congresa to
grant the necessary power. If this
proved unsatisfactory to the unions
the. rallrosds auggested arbitration
under the Newtanda Act
The, men rejected the two pronosl
tlona. Their spokesman. A, B. Gar
retaen. president of the Order of Rail
way Conductors. In an Impassioned
speech said that the men would never
consent to arbitration because of the
failure of the unlona to obtain Justice
In prior disputes through that method.
The leaders of the four unlona. the
Tlrotherhood of Locomotive Engineers,
the Brotherhood or Locomotive Flra
tn and Enalnemen. the Brotherhood
of Railway Trainmen, and the Order
nt Rallwav Conductors, upon witn
drawing from the conference lost no
Prisoners Arrive at Cairo.
Cairo. Egypt Aug. 7. Sixteen hun
dred Turkish prisoners, part of the
army captured by the British at Ro
mania, have arrived here.
miles, and aa soon aa 100 miles had
been run on longer tripe, overtime to
be computed at one and one-halt
tlmea the pro-rata rate, no one to re
ceive less than they previously re
ceived for a minimum dsy. The men
were to be guaranteed the right to re-
, tain any rates of pay or schedules In
effect January 1, 1918, which would
be preferable to the new schedule.
The roads contended thst the men
made no allowance for the difference
between railroad and Industrial ser
vice. They pointed out that railroad
englnmen or trainmen are guarantee
payment for a full day no matter how
few hours they Work and receive pay
for more thanl a full day It they work
more than either the established
mllea or hoars. In other lines ot In
dustry, the railroads held, the em
ployee does not receive a day's pay
for less than a day'a work, and ordi
narily he cannot earn more than a
day's pay for less than a day'a work
without working more than the regn
lar number of hours.
No Americana On Beard.
Rome, Aug. 7. H has been learned
that no Americana were on board the
Italian steamer, Letlmbro, which waa
sunk by a submarine In the Medlter
ranean last week, wit reported
heavy loea of life.
si
01 Mil
I
insfMD
The Government of the State of Slna
Lea, Mealco, Haa Been Tranaferred
- Prom Maxatlan to Cullacan.
IB Associated Prese.)
Maxatlan. Mexico, Aug. 7.-The
government of the State of Slna Loa,
which la considered loyal to the car
ranaa rule, haa been moved from Ma
xatlan to Cullacan, where there are
fewer bandits and more security, also
a better aupply of provision.
In an altercation Saturday night In
the street at the rear of the Bryaji
Boiling Alley and the Lxchange bar
hershop. A. Larson waa aorlously
stabbed by Wiley McKnlght Several
ugly gashes were Inflicted In Lar
con a body, but only one was serious
enoogh to cause much nneaatness on
the part of the attending physician
and hie friends, and thla penetrated
nla l'ing. Unless pneumonia or some
complication sets in It Is thought he
will be able to be out in a few days.
The trouble came np over a dif
ference In wagea, or rather in the
manner In which different employes
were checked up. The men sgreed to
go Into the street and aettle the mat
ter. and after considerable argument
a fist fight ensued and McKnlght
seemed to have been getting the
worat of the fight and drew his knife
wllh the above results.
After the trouble happened It seems
thst It waa soma little time before It
became generally known and Mc
Knlght was on the get away all thla
time, lie left the city going north.
and waa cauiht about Ave miles
north of the city on the H. T. C
trsck by City Marshal Conlee and
Deputy Worley. It waa learnol by
these two officers Ibat he was hoidcd
In that direction, so they got In a
car and ran tut thla distance and
ere waiting or the track ior n!m
when he came i loig. He did not re
sist arrest and waa brought oack to
the city anJ !u.ged In Jail when h
will be' held to await the outowi ot
I .arson's injuries. Larson wj car
ried to vhe lryn Hospital, wliere bis
rounds were dressed, and la rpc"t'
s to be dclrg tlcely today. '
officers. Wagner has mace full con-j
fesslon ot the kilUax. '
EEO
DF f '.IE C0.1
I
A large Showing
of Beautikl Rugs
Several days age we announeed te the surprise of sems who had not vlelted our etore
(in the Vast alamentha) that we had eapendsd about S20.000 for Staek and riaturea. and that today
have if the BIST CQUIPPtO and-SIST STOCKKO FURNITURt STORSS In the State.
?!ll. ?. n blart. wt want y." Tt. .em. and see for yeursslf. Our EDISON and VICTROLA PARLORS
offer high .lass sntertalnment for thoss who call.
RUGS AOAINI-N. department In the ator. holds more surprises for ths .slier than does the
RUG DEPARTMENT. Meny new designs and fahrlea mark the evolution ' "y
"endltlona of the past yssr. Ivsry Isdy Is Interest.d In pretty thgs for ' "J""" ,ooH
new things we show-Your visit will bs appreciated and you will be treated royally.
Ho IF
ANOTHER SLUMP
Ifj CRUDE OIL
8t Louis, Mo.. Aug. 7. Five per
..,, sons Oieo ot neai. ucr yeawru.
The desth ot Ml Cramer wa oe T"" MUnum w" 93 topm-
Ot me mosi surrmg crimes m v,.nB, Ais f
and followed a serlej of murdwe aud PJ IP "111 I P
aiiacaa wnicn oc:u.tb-j biuiu v ! UUAlMsllllaa U
- 11 11 . ... v Mints, TtiA
nurse had returned from a profes
sional call to North Texia and waa
going to her borne In Oak Cliff from
a deoot. She waa attarked while, ..... ti-.umm at
- naiionan.j n -
crossing the high school lawn, atrang-, 0(jt May B- Bremen
led to death and left lying on the ; Ff0m
ground with the contents of ner auu-1 -esse
and handbag scattered about , Portland. Maine, Aug. 7 A aub
her. . The body waa found by the marine WM sighted five miles off th.
school Janitor early the following troMt by the lookout at the coast
morning. ruard station on Cross Island at 11:25
Officers worked for several weeks-. ,7, moving west j VThe weather
An mnv rlnea. and arrested four or. .kiw .A II nattonalltr la Dot
v.. - mmm
Ore suspects. Including some negroes. . known. n waa sighted coming to the
The only tangible ciue iouna was surface, and auhmergea i rnmam
chesp brass stick pin. which an un- ,uter
dertaker removed from Mlsa Cramer's Second Sub Sighted.
hair. It had become tangled there u ta believed poaalble that the
during the death struggle. No evt- Deutachland or the Bremen was) the
dence of criminal aasault waa found second ubmarin. alghted later.
on the body.
Information waa given to Dallaa of-
fbra durinc the middle of July
the unusual action of a negro held:
t MrKlnnev. Texas. In connection
with the robbery of the poetoffloe at
riano, near there. Dwllaa detectives
want to UcKlnner. were placed In
communication with Wagner, and
after several days of grilling, the ne
gro, according to the officers' report,
confessed that he killed Visa Cra
mer. . . 1 A .1.1
Th. COnression, oincora mmiu, - .
:.. . . . . .. v j tha value of the nrtie ship Appam at
that W agner intenoen to roo ntsr.anu. - - ... nft
dld not mean to kill her; that ah. on. S
atruggled and that to smother her H"nV?-.
cries, he placed hi. hande about her port mad. to U. United IWM
throat Son after. Wagner M.d. ah. .rW Court The
fell Ump In hi. arm.. H. bec.m. or in ..... , - --
IS lururu u,di iv
owners pending the result of an ap
tv.al to th. Supreme Court, motion
to which effect will be made at one
3 FIXED V:iOE OF
FillZES'fflrul
Pull Valu. to B. Sued tor If Ship I.
Turned Over to former
Vnrfolk Va Ant. 7. Private and
Herman naval archltecta hav. fixed
frightened and ran away.
1 Warner told th. officer, h. could
Pralrl. Oil and Gaa Company Makea not rest, but waa continually having
an Additional. Cut o Ten Centa . visions and hallucinations 01 a crown
Par Barrel Prle. Now 11.18. jof men placing a rop. around hla neck
; and leading him to a flra.
(Br Aeooie Press ) Arrangement, were made to hav.
Independence, Kansas, Aug. 1. 1 um gpij guard about th. prisoner
price on crud. oil waa cut another'. . th nom durlng th, trial
. k. Ik lnl.l
111 ctnis per oarro, it
rle Oil and Gaa Company. The price
now I. $1.15.
SWITCHMEN WILLIE
TO ARBITRATE;
There's alwaya room at th. top
and th. rent I. cheaper.
..I...W.W!..,. iaisn
POOR RESULTS.
How are the Incubators getUng
along r asked a friend of his neigh
bor who had recently bought some
"Why alright, I suppose; but al
tho I hav. had them for two weeke
now, not on. ot th. four haa laid an
I egg yef-E.
Ranraaantatlvea Of U. S. MediStlon
Beard Announce That Switchmen
Wilt Settle By Arbitration.
(By Associated rra)
New York. Aug. 7.-Th. Tnlted
Slates board of mediation representa
tives announce that after a confer
enr. of repreaentallv'ea of th. 8ltch
'men's Vnlon of North America and
th. railroads, both aides hsv. as reed
lo setilf their differences by arbltra
VE DOin VAWT YOOR DAIiK ACCOUiiT
but Ve Da Vtnt Yra AtteaUcn !
Wc want to remind you that we sell every
thing for the home. .Wc would like to show
you our stock of Furniture and Convince
you that HERE is the logical point at which
to make your purchases.
VJ. T. JACIEG, Furnlturo
1. 1
1 u u u ij-i.ru'irinrrr i'i'i " " " " ' "" "
tlon.
I
