THE BARRE DAILY TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 122.
BARRE, VERMONT, MONDAY, AUGUST 7, 1916.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
4'
FORWARD PUSH
OF RUSSIANS
THREATENING
Not Only Is Bringing Them
Closer to Lemberg, but It
Is Also Endangering the
Entire Austrian Front
Along the Stripa to the
South, Which Is Being
. Outflanked
MORE POSITIONS
ARE CAPTURED
French Official Communica
tion Reports the Repulse
of German Attacks at
Thiaumont and .in the
Vaux and Chapitre Woods
British Capture Many
Turks
SUBMARINE SEEN.
OFF MAINE COAS
Unidentified Vessel SUyed on Surface
15 Minutei and Then Submerged,
Going in Westerly Direction.
Portland. Me.. Aug. 7. A submarine
was sighted five mile off the coast by
lookout at the coast guard station on
Cross island early this morning. It moved
west in ihu-k weather. Its nationality
could not be made out. The submarine
came to the surface for 15 minutes and
then submerged.
It was thought the vessel might be
either the Bremen or the Deutschland
So far as can be learned there are no
t'nited States submarines off the Maine
coast.
CHASED SEVEN HOURS.
retrogTad, Aug. 7. Further successes
for the Russians along the Sereth and
Graberka rivers, south of Rrody, were
announced bv the war ollice to-day. The
Russians captured strongly fortified po
pitions in the region of the villages o
L'vyjum, Kostinieo and Reniuv.
The forward push of the Russians is
not only bringing them closer to Leni
berg on the first line of advance but it
is pointed out by military critics as like
ly seriously to endanger the entire Aus
rian front along the Stripa to the south
which is being rapidly outflanked.
BRITISH TRAPPED
TURKS AND TOOK
3,000 UNWOUNDED
Great Success Attended Their Strategy
in Battle of Komani and British
Horsemen Fought Admirably.
London, Aug. 7. Three thousand un
wounded Turks were captured by the
British at the battle of Komani, accord
ing to an official statement. A descrip
tion of how the Turks were drawn into
a trap at Romani by the British cavalry
is given in a Cairo dispatch to the Lx
change Telegraph company.
The British horsemen fought admir
ably, the rear guard action drawing the
Turks on until their flanks were turned
ly a mounted division. The whole bri
gade was compelled to surrender. The
net results of the Romani battle are the
destruction of more than a fourth of the
Turkish effectives and the pushing of the
remainder out. into the blading desert be
yond the Katia oases, declare military
experts.
Italian Steamship Finally Eluded Three
Submarines.
New York. Aus. ".The Italian
steamship Re D'ltalia, with three Ainer
lean passengers on board from ienoa
Italv. was chased for seven hours by
three submarines while in the Mcditer
ranean and was saved from capture by
use of defense guns mounted aft, accord
ing to the report of her master, l.apt
Amedeo Pinceti, on the arrival of the
ship here yesterday. The captain said
he believed one of the submersible was
hit bv one of the shots fired, although his
only evidence was the appearance of the
column of water which rose in the air
where the shell fell.
No shots were fired at the Re D'talia,
Captain Pinceti said, and all he saw of
the submarines were the periscope, lliey
were discovered by the lookout at 0:30
a. m. on July 23, when the vessel was
about 200 miles from Genoa midway be
tween the Balearic inlands and the island
of Corsica. They were then one and one
half miles dead astern.
Captain Pinceti ordered the speed of
his ship increased to her full capacity,
about 12 knots an hour. Then he sum
moned the crew of naval gunners on
board and took personal command of
them.
About 9:45 the submarines were slight
ly abeam on the starboard quarter, trav
eling in aline, Captain Pinceti said. See
ing that they were chasing us, I ordered
the gunners to open fire. The third shot,
I believe, took effect, as the spout of wa
ter that followed the falling of the shell
was much different from that caused by
the prcccdng shots. It was much heavier
the preceding shots. It was much heavier
or oil. At any rate, from that time on,
only two periscopes were to be seen.
uhe chase continued until 4:30 that
afternoon, the boats not getting an
closer to us nor showing themselves. W
kept on firing at them, in all lo shot
Horn our two three-inch naval guns.
After our third shot, the submarines evi
dently tried to get in a position to launch
a torpedo, but were no doubt afraid to
come to the surface to get better speed
because of our guns. No nag was seen
and there was no ay to determine their
nationality, but their wake as seen
through glasses indicated that they were
big ones.
The three American passengers on the
Re D Italia were J. P. Foster of Philadel
phia, a veterinary surgeon; Paul Ed
wards of Jersey City, and James Higgins
of Cincinnati, who had gone over in
charge of a consignment of horses.
The Re D Italia is a vessel of 6,237
tons, owned by the Italian Lloyd Sa-
baudo.
GERMAN ATTACKS
OF NO AVAIL
COL HASKINS
PASSES ON
Former Vermont Congress
man and One of State's
Best Known Men
DIED AT HIS HOME
IN BRATTLE B0R0
He Had Also Served as Post
master and Was in
Civil War
French Continue to Hold Their Positions
at Thiaumont and in Vaux and
Chapitre Woods.
Paris, Aug. 7. The repulse of German
attacks at Thiaumont and in Vaux and
Chapitre woods in the Verdun sector is
officially announced. 1 he statement re
tords a vigorous artillery duel north of
the Somme, A French screen of fire
checked the German attack at Thiau
mont. Three German aeroplanes were
brought down on the Somme front.
CLEANING GERMANS
OUT OF COLONIES
'General Botha Has Arrived in German
East Africa to Witness the
Final Operations.
London, Aug. 7. -General Botha, pre
mier of the Union of South Africa, has
arrived in German East Africa to witness
what is believed here to bo th latt
phase of operations against Germany'
one remaining colony.
Jiotha was present at recent fighting
north of the (Jerman Central railway,
which resulted in a British advanne to
and the occupation of the lines at Kili-,
matinde and other points. i
Meanwhile, with the occupation of I
Tjiji by the Belgians and of other coast
ports by the British, the Germans .ap
parently are afforded only the opportu
Hity of retreating into the southeastern
corner of the colony, where the Fortu-
gue-e await them.
DAMAGED BY FIRE.
Equipment and Offices of the New York
Sun Put Out of Commission.
New York, Aug. 7. Five large presses
on which the New York Sun is printed
were so badly damaged last night by a
fire whioh started in the sub-cellar of the
Sun building that to-day's editions were
run off on toe presses of the Evennig
Mail.
Burning oil, paper, ink soaked wood
work and the rubber rollers on the
presses sent dense smoke to the street
impeding firemen in their work. There
were no employes in the press room
when the blase started. The editorial
and art staffs of the newspaper made
their way to the street through thick
smoke whioh quickly filled the lower
floors of the buildings.
HEAT RECORD IN NEW YORK
Two tire Dead and Many Were Prostrat
ed To-day.
New York, Aug. 7. With two dead
and many prostrations during the past
l nours, indications were that to-day
would break all previous records for ex
cessive humidity.
Brattleboro, Aug. 7. Colonel Kittredge
Haskins, aged SO years, former congress
man and postmaster, died at his home
here this morning after a month's illness
with kidney disease, lie was taken ill
while attending the Episcopal diocesan
convention In Montpelier and his condi-
lon had been critical ever since that
time.
Colonel Haskins was born in Dover
April 8, 183ft. the son of Asaph and
Amelia (Ward) llasklns, and was edu
cated at common schools and by private
utor. He became one of the prominent
awyers of Vermont and had resided in j
Brattleboro since 18fi3. He was elected
Congress in 1900 and served four
erms. tie was postmaster of Hrattle
boro for four years after January, 1011.
-olonel Hawkins was a prominent Epia-
cojtalinn and attended the general con
ventions of that church in tlneago, New
ork and Baltimore. He had been mas-
er of the grand lodge of Masons and
was one of the few ermonters to re
ceive the 33d degree, the highest degree
n the Scottish Rite branch. He leaves
is wife, who was Maud A. Elmore of
Dorchester. Muss.
He enlisted in Company I,' 16th regi
ment, Vermont infantry, in the Civil war,
nd was commissioned first, lieutenant.
resigned the following year because
f disabilities sustained March 19, 1803.
He was appointed to the staff of Gov
ernor Peter T. Washburn in 1860.
Among the minor offices which he had
Id were: Town representative, stat
senator, speaker of the Vermont House
and justice of the peace.
RUTLAND WOMAN
SHOT TO DEATH
Y HUSBAND
Mrs. George W, Duncan Had Recently
Sued for DivorceShooting Took
Place at Home of Her Niece
Duncan Was Promptly
Arrested.
PHILADELPHIA HAS
STREET CAR STRIKE
Union Official Says That 1,800 of 4.000
Employes Quit Work in Response
to His Call All Lines Said
to Be Operated.
Philadelphia, Aug. 7. A strike of the
members of the Amalgamated Associa
tion of Street and F.lectric Railway Em
ployes was called this morning by Presi
dent Flynn of the local division, but ap
parently there was no change in the run
ning schedule of the lines of the Philadel
phia Transit company.
President Hvnn issued a statement
saying that 1,800 of the 4,000 employes
had responded. lie said that several lines
were tied up.
Strikebreakers are replacing the men
out. Company officials asserted that only
a negligible number of men had quit and
that all the lines were being operated as
usual. The strikers seek recognition bf
the union and more wages.
MEN READY TO ACCEPT
Tentative Agreement in New York Street
Car Strike.
New York, Aug. 7. President Mahon
of the railway strikers announced at the
close of the employes' meeting to-day
that a tentative agreement had been
ratified and that the men were ready to
o to work if the agreement was ratified
y the directors of the New York Rail-
pvays company in session this afternoon.
MONTPELIER
POPE WILL PROTEST
FRENCH DEPORTATION
Will Ask Germany That at Least the
Women and Young Girls Be Sent
Back to Their Homes in North
ern France.
Paris. Aug. 7. After a careful study
of the protest against the deportation of
the inhabitants of northern France, the
pop has decided to make a protest to
Germany, according to a news despatch
fmm Rome. It ie stated that the pope
will ask Berlin that at least the women
nd young girls be sent buck to their
komes.
Famous Boxing Manager Dead.
New York. Aug. 7. George Gonsidine,
one icaoagr of famous boiers, is dead.
TALK OF THE TOWN
Regular meeting of lumpers, boxers
and derrickmen's union in Foresters' hall
Tuesday night at 7:30. Perorder secre
tary.
Mrs. Gustavus L. Gregoire of Newton
street left the city this morning for Fair
Haven, where the is passing several davs
with relatives.
Miss Olivia Bianchi, who has been
passing five weeks at the home of Mr.
Mrs. Charles Bianchi of Summer street.
returned this forenoon to her home in
Milford, N. H.
The W. C. T. U. will hold ita meeting
at benjamin Falls Wednesday after
noon. Members bring lunch baskets for
supper and leave Barre on the 1:45 car,
Notice change of place. -
Mrs. James Brown of Cliff streefand
Miss Elizabeth Nelson of Merchant
street returned to the city to-day from
St. Johnabury, where they have been
visiting relative for a tew days.
Dr. Henry Stickney returned "this aft
ernoon to his home in Mauchefter, N. H.,
after having been a guest through the
week end of his uncle. Dr. O. G. Stickney,
of Washington street. Dr. Stiekney's vis
it in Barre was made while he s on
his war home from Plattsburg. N. Y..
where he has been passing a month in
the military camp.
Fred A. Grout, son of Mr. and Mrs.
Edward Grout of Waterburr, and Freda
Edna Morse, daughter of Edgar Morse
of the same place, were married there
Saturday evening bv Rev. W. L. Boi-
eourt, and were attended by Mr. and Mrs.
Ferd Morse. A-fter the ceremony they
came to Barre to spend a few day with
the bride's aunt, Mrs. Garrett Roberts of
51 Elm street. Both are popular Wat
erbury yourg people.
Enoch Lyman, formerly of this city,
who has been located in Boston for the.
past year, arrived in the city this morn
ing for a brief visit with friends.
Miss Marion Luce, who is employed in
motion picture house at White River
unction, arrived in the city last evening
for a brief visit with her parents on Cliff
street.
State's Attorney Fred E. Gleason has
drected the officer of the local aerie of
Eagles and the Elks club to close the
buffet of each club and it is understood
that the order has been complied with.
Two reels of motion picture films, part
of a feature picture show last evening
at Intercity park, were destroyed by fire
during the course of the entertainment,
causing a loss of about $200 to the man
agement, Guy S. Knapp and Richard
Henderson of this city. The films were
in the little booth in front of the grand
stand, where the machine is located, and
it is presumed that a lighted cigarette or
cigar thrown from the stand landed on
the celluloid.
Rutland, Aug. 7- Mrs. George W.
Duncan died last night as the result of a
bullet wound received lute Saturday
night at the hands of her husband, the
proprietor of the Holland houe in this
city. Duncan is in the county jail, hav
ing been placed under arreat shortly
after being overpowered at the house of
Edward Deero, 14H Library street, where
the shooting took .place. Mrs. Dezero
was a niece of the victim.
Duncan and his wife had trouble at the
hotel a week ago and Airs. Duncan pe
titioned for a divorce, meanwhile ilio
woman going to the home of her niece.
An injunction and restraining order were
issued against Duncan, and tiiv case
was to have been heard Saturday but
Duncan failed to put In an appearance.
It was alleged that Duncan tried to
choke his wile just before she left the
hotel, rlaiming she was guiUy of misconduct.
Duncan purchased a revolver at a 1
cal store Saturday night, telling that
he was going away on a trip and needed
the weapon for protection. He showed
up at the Dezero house at about 10:30
thut night just as the members of the
household were preparing to retire. He
appeared to be in an amiable state of
mind when he walked into the house
without a word; and Mr. and Mrs. De-
zero, .Mrs. Duncan it ml he sat down in
the kitolien and talked for 20 min
utes. Presently Duncan asked leave to
see his son, Kenneth, aged five, who
was sleeping in an adjoining room. lie
blew out a light which was burning m
the young boy's room and then re
turned to the kitohen, where he remained
five minutes. Again expressing a desire
to see his son, he went to the otiier room
and turning, opened lire upon his wife
who was sitting directly in the ray of
the light in the kitvhtn, at the same
time shouting: "I'm out for business
and I'm going to make good."
Duncan hred four shots, but on'c one
bullet struck Mrs. Duman whereupon she
fell to the flxir. Seeing her fall Duncan
turned the gun toward his own head j
but was overpowered by Mr. Dezero, who
had crept along the floor and sprung at
him. When Duncan vhs borne down to
the fiiMir Mrs. Dezero took thu revolver
away from him and w ent to I he assist
ance or .Mrs. Duncan. Not seeing any
blood, Mrs. Dezero thought tiie other
woman had merely fainted and tried to
arouse her. Then Mrs. Duncan placed
one hand on her fcide, indicating that a
bullet had struck her there. Meanwhile
William Hoel, who rooms in the house,
came to Dezero s assistance and they
held Duncan, on the iloor, releasing him
to Officers Dwver and Canty who came
with Drs. F. H. Gembardt and William
Stickney.
Owing to the critical condition of Mrs.
Duncan it was impossible to remove her
to the hospital. She hovered between
life and death and died at 10:30 last
night. Mrs. Duncan was 27 years of age
and her husband is 1 fiey nave one
son. Before he was told of his wife's
death Duncan said: "I'm sorry I did it:
I love her madly that's the only reason
why 1 shot her. I hope ahe lives that's
all. "
AUTO SLICED
BY HILL TRAIN
Only Occupant, Antonio B.
Camiskey, Escaped Prac
tically Unscathed
LAIJOR DELEGATES
GATHER TUESDAY
IN CONVENTION
Large Number of Members of Vermont
Branch, American Federation of La
. bor, Expected in Barre This Week
For Annual Session.
STARTED TO JUMP
AS HE SAW DANGER
Accident Happened at the
Quarry Street Grade
Crossing
WANT CHAUTAUQUA.
Miss Gertrude Donohue of Middlebury.
who has been visiting at the home of
Mr. and Mrs. Fred Kempton on South
Main street for a few days, left this
afternoon for Lake Iroquois, where she
will be the guest of Miss Marjorie Love,
while en route for her home in Middle
bury. John T. Hubbard, a teacher in the
Spaulding high school, left the city this
morning for his home in Connecticut,
where he will visit through the remain
der of the summer vacation. Mr. Hub
bard has been camp leader at Camp Ah
naki on the shores of Lake Charaplain
through the latter part of June and
through the month of July.
Funeral servn-es for Keardon McMinn
Morria. the infant son of Mr. and Mrs.!
Allan A. Morris of 8 Spaulding street.
no death occurred early Saturday
morning, were hell at the house this
forenoon at 10 o'clock. Key. Mr. Weller,
pastor of the t'niversalist chorea in
Washington, officiating. There were a
number of floral tribute. Interment was
made in Hope cemetery.
Already Three-fifths of the Guaranty
Fund is Subscribe.
I'arre's first Chautauqua closed at the
seminary campus lat evening with u
arge audience listening to Ole Tlieobai-
di, a violinist," Miss Florence R. Stitzel,
soprano, and .Madame Helen Kclere, a
pianist. In the judgment of men who
mve been present at many Chautauqua
gatherings tins summer, 'he attendance
approached 1.500. A Sunday afternoon
gathering under the big top enjoyed mil
si and a talk on the Mexican situation
by Andre Tridon, who injected a bit of
partisan seasoning into his address by
scoring President Wilson. J Ins morning
the tent was razed and with other trac
ings shipped to Kuosburg Falls.
Local supporters of the Chautauqua
re in accord when they bruise the
Tiautauqua plan and are anxious for a
return engagement next summer. To
that end upward of ,100 tickets of guar
anty were subscribed for Saturday cven-
ng and the local committee feels thut
the additional 200 tickets that must oe
sold to insure a 1017 Chautauqua will
be disposed of readily. A committee of
men and women in Barre, numbering
ftftj'-two, has guaranteed a contract with
the Chautauqua people for 1017. Those
who contributed to the entertainments
Sunday afternoon and evening left for
the next town on the circuit this morning.
A five-passenger Briscoe touring car of
the 1918 model was almost totally de
molished when it collided with a passen
ger tram over the Barre Chelsea raw
road at the Quarry street crossing Satur
day evening at 0:30 o'clock, the owner
and operator of the auto, Antonio B
Camiskey, proprietor of moving picture
theatres in upper Graniteville and Last
Barre, escaping with a slight laceration
on the right side of his face. That Ca
miskey escaped with his life is regarded
as being akin to the miraculous. The ac
cident occurred while Camiskey was re
turning home, having turned into the
Quarry street road from South Main
street when the "air line" train, with
many Barre Town commuters aboard,
was approaching the crossing. The train
stopped as soon as possible and the train
crew lent its assistance to the owner of
the car.
The locomotive, Granite City, had the
usual number of cars in its wake and the
coaches were crowded. Engineer John
McHugho was at the throttle and the re
mainder of the train crew was made up
as follows: Conductor, frank HJouin;
hrakeman, George Colounib; fireman,
! Walter Clark. Marks of the encounter
were visible on the big enable when the
train reached the city, but, the steam pro
pelled tractor did not share in the least
the damage sustained by the automobile.
Although somewhat dazed by the acci
dent, Mr. Camiskey, after making ar
rangements for transporting the wrecked
car to the Kennedy garage in Depot
square, proceeded to Graniteville and then
returned to the city later In the evening
to ship a consignment of films to Boston.
He had owned the oar but a short time
and there is no insurance to cover his
loss, n mutter of nearly $7RS.
According to accounts of the accident!
given by passengers, members of the
train crew and Mr. Camiskey himself, it
was due mainly to the tact that he did
not hear the approach of the train after
leaving South Main street. Skirting
Quarry street on the south side is a high
bank which obscures the quarry track
from view until the traveler has almost
reached the crossing. Feople who travel
by team or motor up the Quarry street
road are accustomed to listen sharply
for the warning toot of a locomotive
whistle, but circumstances combined to
prevent the movie man from hearing the
usnal announcement of the train's ap
proach. He was driving with his cut-out
open and to all accounts bowling along
at a comfortable rate of speed.
Passenger and members of the train
crew corroborate Engineer McHugho in
his statement that he sounded the cus- j
tomary crossing warning by two long and
two short 'blasts. The signal was given
F.very organized labor unit in Vermont
will be represented to-morrow when the
annual convention of the state branch
of the American Federation of I. bor
opens in carpenters' hall in the Nichols
block at 10 o'clock. Returns received by
Sec. Alex. Ironside of the htate federation
indicate that koine if the local in dif
ferent parts of the state will be very
largely represented. Mayor Robert Gor
don will deliver an address of welcome
to the delegates upon their arrival and
the convention will be opened by prayer,
Bev. Ldgar (Tosland, pastor of the first
Presbyterian church, who is spending his
vacation at the East Northtield, Mass.,
conference, huving consented to return
to Barre to make the invocation.
Routine procedure incident to the usual
organization will be in order during the
forenoon session and convention com
mittees will be appointed. It is expect
ed that the annual report of Sec. Iron
sido will be received some time during
the day and remarks are to be made by
Gov. C. W. Gates, ex-Gov. Allen M.
Fletcher and Rev. J. Wesley Miller of
Bothel, a member of the legislature of
1913, and an advocate of legislation bene
ficial to organized labor.
It is expected that Wednesday will be
the big day of the convention. An all-
lay session will conclude at night- with
a -parade, a mass meeting in the opera
Jiue and a banquet in Clan Gordon hall.
Samuel Gompers of Boston, president of
the A. i. of L., will tie the guest of the
convention. He is to arrive in tiie city
Wednesday morning and provisions have
been made for accommodating him dur-
ng his stay at. Hotel Buzzell in Pearl
street. The evening parade will form on
Granite street and procession will lead
up North Main street, around city
square to the opera house, where Pres.
ompers ib to speak at i :30 o clock. A
union band, made up largely of members
of the Barre Citizens' band, will head the.
parade and plav at the mass meeting.
Mr. Gompers' address will be followed
BODY SQUEEZED
BETWEEN ROCKS
Herbert E. Abbey, Jones)
Bros. Co. Watchman, Met (
Death in Stone Yrd
STONE T0PPLET ?' " ""!
AS HT MASSED i
Terribly CniCird Remains:
Were Found by Al-
bert Moulton :.
A Sunday stoneshed fatality claimed -
Herbert E. Abbey of the Richardson road, !
day watchman employed by Jonea ,
Brothers, as its victim yesterday.)
Crushed between a mausoleum stone j
weighing nearly eight tons and another j
stone of the time dimensions, the body t
of Abbey was found in the stoneshed :'
ard by Albert Moulton, an engineer em- i
loyed by the company, at 12:43 o'clock, .
Jfe was extinct and circumstances sur-'
by the banquet and a program of after
dinner speaking. The local committee
n charge of arrangements is completing
a list of thoe who may be called upon
for responses.
President Fred W. Suitor of the state
branch will preside at all business ses
sions of the convention ana ne win un
doubtedly be requested to act aa master
of ceremnnes at the banquet.
PAY FOR THEIR FUN.
Four Young Men Borrowed Touring Car
for a Spin.
Four young men who borrowed a tour
ing car owned by H. M. Farnham Satur
day night and "enjoyed a repetition of
the nocturnal trips taken by two of the
nunrtet in November, 1913, were ar
raigned before Magistrate H. W. Scott in
city court this morning.
Charles Melanson, a baseball pitcher,
admitted complicity in the borrowing and
paid a ?.j fine and costs. Likewise JKob
crt Diack acknowledged the corn and
was asked to pay a similar assessment.
Romeo Seampini was delivered into the
custody of the court by Probation Officer
Charles Smith, as it developed that the
young man wu on probation for a sim
ilar offense last fall. The order of pro
bation was revoked, and the young man
was held to pay a 650 fine and costs
accruing at the last prosecution. The
sKine procedure was followed in the case
of Jerry Burke, who participated in the
memorable expeditions in. November.
Parents of Burke and Seampini objected
to paying the fines, and at noon it looked
as though the respondents would have to
serve the alternative sentences in the
several rods before the train reached the f house of correction at Rutland
ANKLE CUT IN MOWER.
Ruth Copping, Aged 8, Received Serious
Injury.
Ruth Copping, eight-year-old daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. Richard Copping .of the
Last Montpelier road, narrowly missed
losing her left foot atuiday afternoon
when she came in cqntact with a mowing
machine while hastening to join a num
ber of little people at play in her fa
ther's hayfield. The child had a kitten
in her arms and had stooed down in
the high grass when the hired man,
aboard the mowing machine, approached.
He told the girl not to move in the direc
tion of the machine, but as she got up
and started toward him, he began to
slow down. It wa when she started to
step over the section knives that she re
ceived a deep cut above the left ankle
bone. It is thought that th sections
were barely moving when her foot came
in contact with the machine.
Gathering the child in his arms, the
hired man sped toward the ( oppmg home.
The girl's father met him and alter bind
ing the ankle with his handerchief. he ! lmnrive struck it. Camiskev,
rrossing. The automobile was within a
few feet of the crossing when Camiskey
saw the headlight of the locomotive and
as a collision seemed inevitable, he
jumped from the car. He alighted on
the edge of the highway and in falling
sustained a slight but rather superficial
cut on the face. Evidently the car struck
the locomotive near the buffer beam over
the pilot.
Fragments of the hood and body were
scattered over a considerable nren and
the chassis was ruthlessly pushed into a
ditch alongside the track. After stopping
the train the engineer and his crew hur
ried back to the scene of the accident.
Mr. Camiskey had recovered from the
first shock of the collision and was able
to aid the railroad men in putting to
gether a connected narrative of what had
happened. Examination of the wrecked
auto disclosed the fact that the engine
was still in operation. Although the bat
tery box was partially destroyed the.
front lights of the car were burning.
Scarcely anything remained of the body
or the hood. Both seats had been
wrenched from the chassis and the under
slnng was badly broken up. Apparently
the radiator, engine, engine hood and
steering wheel were intact. One of the
number plates, attached over the front
axle, was found In its place, but the other
plate had gone the way of the body and
underslung part.
Someone notified police headquarters of
the s-ccident and Officer Harry Gamble
was sent to Quarry street to make a re-
Iport. After extending aid to the motor
ist. -the crew climbed aboard the train,
which arrived in Depot square several
minute overdue. While arrangements
were being made at the garage to remove
the wreck, a number of parts were
sembled and afterward the outfit was!
taken to Kennedy's. Two small wagon j
wheels of a type commonly used when
autos are minus the wheels the mir.nfae- j
urer gave them were attached to the rear 1
Tho police allege that Melanson, Dlack,
Burke and Seampini took the Farnham
car from a spot where it had been parked
In front of the liowland block, a son of
the owner having withdrawn to a neigh
boring dance hall while the motor cooled
Young Farnham reported his loss to the
police at 11:30 o'clock, and some time
afterward the car was discovered at the
cast end of Keith avenue with all lights
out. According to stories told the police,
the bovs drove to Jerue's crossing and
spent more than an hour on the road
before returning to the city.
DEATH OF JAMES GOOD.
of Barte for
Had Been a
Resident
Years.
19
James Good, for thirty-eight years a
granitecutter and for nineteen years a
resident of Barre, passed away at his
home, 3 Farwell street, Saturday even
ing at 8:24 o'clock, the end following
an illness that liegan in December. Mr.
liood is survived by his wife, who was
Miss Mary Moyihan, and to whom he
was married in Boton April 19, 1883,
and three children, Mrs Nellie Brann of
North Woodstock, N. It., James Good of
California, and Miss Rose Good of Barre.
He also leaves a brother, William Good
of Quincy, Mass., and a sister, Mrs.
Nellie Cross of Dorchester, Mass.
The deceased was born in October,
1."4, in County Cork, Ireland. As a
young man he learned the granitecutter's
trade and came to America, where he
work for a number of years in Quin
cy, Mass. For some time prior to his
last illness he was an employe of Barclay
Bros. He was a memlier f the Catholic
Order of Foresters in Massachusetts and
the granitecutters' union, and belonged
to St. M nica's church.
The funeral will be held in St. Moni
ca's church Tuesday morning at 0 o'clock.
the parish priest. Rev. P. M. McKenna
, v iofTinat ng Interment will be made
the chassis, one of the originil rear . r. , ,
of
wheels having been demolished, while the
other was unfit for eervice. Fore wheels
were undamaged by the collision.
To-day it transpired that three mem
bers of the crew were in the cab. the en
gineer, the fireman and the bnkeman.
They state that CaniLkey' auto wa
about to clear the crossing when the
as it
the Catholic cemetery on Beckley street.
DIRECTED TO CLOSE.
Club
Buffets in Montpelier Get Orders
from State's Attorney.
State's Attorney Gleason has directed
th l"!k and Eagles of Montpelier to
summoned Dr Frank W heeler of Plain-1 ..m. a mrn f,m th ..f ..icWe their buffets where drinks were
field. The physician administered an I ; , wtlpn ,v. .1 -;- served, and it is understood that the
anesthetic and found that the mowing !, ti,e locomotive throwing him nut oflorder wa complied with by the mana
knives had severed an artery and two j Members of the crew agree that 'e'rs of the clubs
cords. Eight stit.-he were taken. This j, he rear of the auto ws jammed against !
forenoon it as stt st the Copping', "Look Out for the Engine" sign iut Mr. and Mrs. Hiram Little, who have
horn that the child was resting rm-i n.irlh of the er.fi-cinir PamisVer is ssit'be-n visaing friends on Smth Main
Isireet, left th,s morning for their home
(Continued on fourth fie-Ji 5n Rutland.
... ,
fnitabSv and woiil 1 undoubtedly reotT'
the complete use of her fo t.
rounding the discovery plainly indicated :
that the unfortunate man met death as ,
e walked through the yard, probably on I
he way home for dinner. At 12:021
clock the watchman had punched tha i
time clock in the "old" section of the !
plant, as it is called, and it is surmised
hat the accident happened a few mo-1
mcnta afterward.
When the elder Abbey failed to appear '
at home for dinner in the noon hour, his j
son, Bert Abbey, et out for the shed in '
search of his father. At work in the en- J
gine room was Mr. Moulton, who planned j
to npend the Sunday in cleaning out the I
boilers. Accosting the engineer, young ;
Abbey inquired for his father and learned !
that he had been seen about the plant j
only a short time before. Mr. Moulton '
was on the point of going from the en
gine room to the office to use the tele- '
phone and told the son that he would
speak to his father on his way. The
grewsome discovery of the elder Abbey's .
misshapen body followed and when the
younger man learned of his father s death
he was instantly overcome. Dr. William i
McFarland was called to the plant toad
minister restoratives to him. In the ab- ',
sence of Health Officer Dr. J. W. Stewart,
Charles Olliver of Division street, a mem- i
ber of the board of health, was called,
and he gave permission to remove tha
body, after investigating.
For some time Abbey had been em-,
ployed by the company to do odd job
about the plant. It was a part of his,
business to close the big shed doors at ;
night and to watch the place on holidays, .
Saturday afternoons and Sundays, until ;
relieved by the night watchman John.
Rowley of Highland avenue. Sunday '
morning he went to the plant as was his ;
wont and was seen several times by Mr. .
Moulton.
When the engineer found the body it
was lying partially erect between the two .
mausoleum etones. Both blocks wera
finishing last week and had been left in ,
the yard preparatory to crating. Tha
stone which struck the man had dimen- !
sions of 0x5x1 feet and was a replica of a ,
stone which rested on. the ground near,
an empty flat ear. It is thought that
Mr. Abbey must have tripped over the
trigging of the stone as he passed be
tween a narrow aisle of finished granite.
Apparently the stone fell on? a sharp
angle, else the watchman would have ,
been guillotined against the sharp edge ,
of the stone on the ground. Halted by
the companion stone, the big block rested
in a diagonal position. Every rib in the
man's body was broken and the chest
was crushed into a space barely four
inches wide. The rush of blood caused
the flesh to burst at the neck and when ,
Moulton found the remains a thick pool ,
of blood was under the stone. The health '
officer and others who examined the body
agreed that death must have been in
stantaneous. L. J. Good, a superintendent in the em
ploy of the company, was notified of the
accident at once and he arrived on the ;
premises before the body was moved.
With the aid of jacks, the mausoleum J
stone was elevated to a height sufficient
to permit the removal of the body. The .
Perry & Noonan ambulance was called j
and the remains were removed to the ;
firm's undertaking establishment in De- '
pot square. The' young Mr. Abbey, over- 1
come by the tragedy, had to be assisted
to his home a short distance awav.
The deceased was born in Middlebury ;
April 20, 1848, and had resided in Barre
six years, coming here from Randolph. 1
He is survived by a daughter. Mrs. Jea- '
sie Bowen of Bethel: five sons, Guy Ab- !
bey of Rochester, Roy Abbey of Ran- j
dolph, Jason Abbey of Barre, Herbert L. ;
Abbey of Barre, Fred W. Abbey of Mont- j
pelier; three sisters. Mrs. Austin Aroher
of Randolph, Mrs. Vian Allen of Bethel,;'
Mrs. Alice Kemp of Bellows Falls; a.
brother. Jason P. Abbey of Bethel, and !
two half-lfr others. John J. Abbey of j
Barre and Elesrer Abbey of Detroit.!
Mich. His wife. Julia (Bowen) Abbey,'
to whom he had been married 3!) years, i
died in Randolph in 1907. I
Prayer service will be held in th '
Perry 4 N'oonan mortuary chapel j
Wednesday forenoon at 10 o'clock and!
the body will be taken to Randolph over '
the Central Vermont railroad at 11:60 (
o'clock. In Randolph the funeral will ho
held in Bethany church at 2 o'clock, the
pastor. Rer. Fraser Metzger. officiating. '
Interment will be beside the body of Mrs. '
Abbey in the village cemetery.
A heavy pall of smoke overhanging the- i
city yesterday indicated that forest fires,
said to have been responsible for "Ye!- .'
low Sunday" a week previous, were ap- !
proachirur nearer, as the acrid odor 1
of burning wood was easily detected. '
Notices for the primary election Sept.
12 have been posted In the corridor at
city ball by City Clerk .lame Markay.
Candidates for tiie t'nited States Senate.
11 of the state and county office and
city representative are to be nominated
at the primaries. The polls will open at
noon and close at o'clock in the even
ing. Thu far no candidate for the of
fice of city representative in Barre bava
appeared. , - ... j
4
