Lost or Fo u n d
T-D Want Ads Will Help You
bind It?Randolph One
66th YEAR
VOM7MK 00
M'AIIIIOIl 41
Our W oman's Page
The Cleverest oj Fashion Cuts,
Useful Hints, etc.
TEN PAGES.
?g?A/?Tu ?FAIR
PRICE, 2 CENTS
State Legislative Problem of Pro
viding Revenue to Avoid
Deficit.
SEE $1,000,000 SHORTAGE
Appropriation Bill Waits Until
Vital Issue Has Been
Settled.
After remaining in eclipse for nearly
five weeks the tax reform question has
emerged as the State lf|>l<latlv? prob
lem of rnnl< In it Importance, and for the
next two weeks It promises to hold the
center of the stage in the General \s
sembly. The spotlight will lm contest
ed by the Mnpp prohibition bill and the
co-ordinate college measure?both on
the calendar and awaiting action?but
the question of providing additional
revenue to stave of! a deficit of ap
proximately $1,000,000 in 1317 promises
to hold first place.
L'ntil tbe tax question Is settled it
will bo impossible to frame the appro
priation bill, since the liberalltv of its
provisions for school*, colleges and va
t tioua other public institutions will l>c
dntermtned hy the amount of revenue
that the State will receive in the nix>
two yearn. Chairman Brewer, of th?
House Appropriations Committee, said
last night that while his budget for
1916-17 fti practically complete, the ap
propriations for th* year following will
not be determined until th<* question of
additional revenue is 'icJinit'-]'. s.-t
tied.
'ilVK A I.I. ? II \ \( K
ro ham: iicakim;
Numerous hearings hav. been held
l". both Finance Committees with the
view of arriving at a solution of the
vexing revenue problem. For the u.ost
part, these hearings have been in v\.
ecut!ve s.-sislori. The policy of tin y?? n,,ni
mittees hi closing to interested parties
? he discussions dealing with proposals
in-reaM 111#*ir taxes has been rharp
ly criticized In man; quarter*. To ?he
criticisms t'.e committer; m<mbers
have uniformly replied that the execu
tive sessions werc h*-ld for reasons of
expediency. and that at the proper
time everybody Interested would be
given a. hearing.
The s. nato Committ- e (>n finance
has tak^n a step In this direction by
fixing ifver;.I public hearings this week
or a discussion of the various tax in
creases that h-ive been sufK^fiod. Th"
Hrst of these will take place at S
o'clock to-night in the courtroom of the
State < orporation Commission. It will
leal only with the proposed im-rcas*
in the franchise lav or rai|road cor
porations and probably with the sug
gested reassessment of railroad prop
erty. '
1*1 111. It ? 1*1 Vf I SSIIIN
on tninrr.i) ta\i:s
?"ounsei for trailroad companies.
?. to were denied admittance to the
hearing of the Senate Finance Ooni
mittee on Friday night. at which time
; members of the State r-orporation Com
mission and 'Jovornor-Stuart laid before
'he committee their advice on 'he pro
posed increases, were inclined to critl
?ize i he course that has been pursued
ron' Hon pointing out that
they will be expected to defend thejr
?ause to-night without having been
given the usual opportunity of hearln
?.he reasons advanced in support of the
franchise tax
To-morrow night the Senate Finance
< ommitteo will hear ? ,MI|?|C discus
sion of omitted taxes and the tax on
capital Invested in business and real
? state. On Wednesday night the same
committee will hold a public hearing
on tins proposed increases in the tax
on merchants and the tax on light. heat
and water companies. All hearings
will take place at S o'clock in the
?>ta?e Corporation Commission court
room.
V
Jiistakb or mi.-, >i (
mo m:i i-ifii:i> \o\v
Students of the partial segregation
system put into effect bv the special
session of 1015. including the chairman
?.f the Mouse Finance Committee, de
clare it to have been the cardinal sin
of the special session that It made the
rates too low. The impending deficit
of 1017. it is stated, is in no way due
to tbe weakness of the partial segre
gation scheme, but solely to the fact
that the Ceneral Assembly overesti
mated the income from some sources,
and was in this manner led to frame
a tax schedule on too low a gear.
Now that the State is confronted with
the necessity of correcting its mistake
of 101 o by raising tho rates on several
tax subjects which, in the opinion of
the Suite Advisory Hoard on Taxation
arc not bearing their proportionate
share of the tax burden, there is oppo
sition from every quarter.
UK IK livvrs MAKI0 IMIOTICST
At; A INST ANY ivmujasis
From the merchants of the State
come perhaps the strongest protest of
all. These make tho claim that, while
ihe tax rates on various kindred sub
jects were materially reduced by the
special session, the merchants' taxes
'.ere left virtually as they wore be
"ore. The proposal now to recast the
merchants' tax schedule so as to in
crease the amount received from the
larger dealers is being strongly op
posed, and a large delegation will be
on hand on Wednesday night to pro
test against the. increase.
Notwithstanding the protests from
tho merchants, the Govenmr and other
members of the Slate Advisory Hoard
on Taxation, including Slato Auditor
Moore, hold llio belief that they have
no real grievance, and that as a class
iliey have hern subjected to no dis
crimination. In his talk to tho Senate
Finance Committee on Friday night,
Hie Coventor indicated his belief that
the merchants, under the proposed re
(Conlinucd on Second Page.)
Clark Denies Plan
to Oust Kitchin
Talk. Concerning Majority Lea
der of House Characterized
as Nonsense.
WASHINGTON*. D. C., February 13.? '
Speaker Clark Issued a statement to- '
night characterizing as nonsense talk
< f ousting Representative Kitchin
from the IIous?: majority leadership
because of his opposition to the pre
paredness program ami other admin
istration plans. He said lie expected
to leave the Speaker's chair whenever]
lie fult 1* necessary to oppose or sup- |
port any measure, but would do so j
without any intent to supplant Itepre- j
sentativo Kitchin or any other com- j
mit tee chairman or leader.
"It's a pity." said the Speaker, "that j
all Democrats do not agree about all
thiiiKs: but Mr. Kitchin has as much
| right to his opinion as the President
I has to his or I have to mine. I have
| faith that by the exercise of forbear- j
ance. moderation and wisdom w?? will
' evolve plans for preparedness and
i other great questions, such as raising
1 revenue on which we can all stand. I
That's my hope and expectation.
"No muii can bull a proposition
through the House hy main strength
The entire philosophy of success in
that able and tumultuous assembly is
! to take things by the smooth handle,
to rub the hair the right way of the
hide, and to confer freely with mem
bers. persuading rather than attempt
i ing to drive, yielding In nonessentials,
' linn as a rock on fundamentals,
i There are 135 members, and every one
of them has a perfect right to his
opinion and to express it whenever and
! wherever it se?-ms to him meet and
; proper.
? "If the. busybodies who are trying to
| stir up strife by magnifying small dif
ferences of opinion among Democrats
{ would help eliminate these differences,
they would constitute themselves
patriots instead of marplots!"
URGES FIGHT ON ANTHRAX
feet ion of All Hide* Shipped I'roni
Infected Port* of Chinn.
NEW YORK, February 13.?Dr. C. T.
? O. Rogers, of the division of indus
trial hygiene of the State I.p.bor Hoard,
; it was announced to-night will rciuest
? Surgeon-General Rupert lilue, of the
United Stales Public Health Service,
. to use his influence w ith the Treasury
' Department to have an order issued
for the r? disinfection of all hides
shipped to America from anthrax-in
, fectfcd ports of China and South Ainer
ica.
, I ?r. Rogers's action is l>arcd upon the
' faet that Kugene Hiers, a hide handler
| of this city, is believed to be dying
i of anthrax at a hospital here.
1 <;i.ovi;i?syii.m: workman
OKA I) FHOM WTIIKVX
j <5LOVHR.SV1I.DK. N. y. February 13
j ?.Vlles Reynolds, aged flftv-three, died
[early to-day from anthrax, which he
j contracted last Wednesday while work?
. ing it: a leather manufacturing plant
here on sheepskins, imported from
South America. The disease was com
municated through a slight skin erup
tion on his ncrk.
This was the second case among
workmen of the same plant within a
year. The other man recovered.
MORSE HALL DESTROYED
Home of ( lien.ion I Department of Cor
nell t nlvernlty In Prey of
Kliimrn.
[.Special to Tlio Times-Dispatch.]
: ITHACA, February 13.?.Morse Hall,
j the homo of the chemical department
i of Cornel. University, was practically
wiped out by lire early this morning.
The loss excceds $300,000. Research
work on which scientists have been
I laboring for years was destroyed.
Inadequate water pressure handi
| capped the firemen. J. C. Ashmead.
jstar guard on the basketball team, saved
radium valued at 11,000. Threo hun
dred students formed a salvage line
and managed to savo f>,000 volumes
from the library and all the olT'icc
records.
Junior week girls in scanty attire
i and coeds served hot coffee and sand
! wiches to the tired and half-frozen fire
men and students. The loss is partly
t covered by insurance.
I
FORD'S NEW PEACE STEPS
J \\ ill I.ntineh Coiiiilrr-Wldc Campaign
of Advertising Agttlr.st Pre
paredncHM Progrnm.
DKTROIT. MICH., February 13.?It
was announced to-night that Henry
Ford is preparing to launch a country
wide campaign of newspaper and mag
azine advertising against thai pro
gram for huge naval and military ex.
' pendltures now before Congress.
' It was said Mr. Ford intends soon to
;carry out his announced intention to
j devote millions of dollars to an educa
tional campaign r-gainst war and j>re
! paredness, which he. declared to bo the
i first step toward actual war.
J None of the details of the plan could
bo obtained to-night, except that Mr.
Ford had been considering the cam
paign for some time, and that "all the
people of the country would be reached
by It."
STRIKE IS SETTLED
Suhntnntiril Concession* Are .Undo by
American Sugnr Iteflning Com
pany to Kmployee*.
f Special to Tho Times-Dispatch. 1
NEW YORK, February 18.?The
State Board of Arbitration has brought
about a sottlement whereby the 4,300
striking employees of tho American
Sugar Ileflning Company, Williamsburg,
will return to work to-morrow. Sub
stantial concessions were made by the
sugar company.
In <?no department tho hours will be
reduced from seventy-two to sixty-six
a week, while tho hourly wage will be
Increased from "18 1-2 to 23 cents.
Corresponding concessions wore inadu
in all oth,cr departments.
Governor Stuart Opens Virginia:
Laymen's Convention at
City Auditorium.
STORM KEEPS FEW AWAY
Dr. Tippy, of New York, and Dr.'
Poteat, of Furman University, I
Are Among Speakers.
i
The Vlrpinia Convention of th? I.ay
uieii's Missionary Movement, c f the ?
national missionary campaign, which :
will be in session h?re for four davs. |
opened yesterday afternoon at
o'clock in the City Auditorium, with,
I Coventor Henry c. Stuart presldint;. j
1 i:< ?-aiiBe of the rainy weather In the i
I morning and snowfall In the afternoon, j
lust about the time the convention was
I eaile<i to order, the crowd was not a.
? as was expected. X?;verthele?>
1 more than 1.50? men wore present. ^
Covernor Stuart told brledy of the
work of the I^aymen's Missionary Mov
m?nt. The business man, lie said, re-?l
' izing the fact that he must have spirit
: uul aspirations, as well as business ,
! aspirations. The material benefits of
I man were not now being submerg-d at
, the expense of tit?' spiritual, but r.t.h* t
j the tendency was the other wa>.
' I)It. TIPP V IlISCI SSKS
SOt "f A I, SBltVICK WORK
|ipv, I". T. MrFadrn, D. D., pave the
; invoeation, after which Rev "Worth
I jr. Tippy! T>. IX, pastor of the Madison
' Avenue Baptist Church. New Vork
City, spoke on "The Broad, ning Me.m
? ir.c of Social Service." Jle 'old o:' the
? ne.ii of united effort in social service.
Catholics. Protestants and Jews
! workinp In harmony," lie said, "is an
irresistible force for the common pood.
? The people of these faiths should be
: united, rather than workinp as sepa
' rate units, for thA enre of neglectcd
j ehlldrrn. Tor the relief of poverty, and
i the other social ills of the body of hu
1 manity.
' "Mind. you, 1 do not mean that theso
fnlths should amalgamate Into one cont
po? ite reliplon, that Is beside the ques
| tion. But what 1 do say is, that such
1 ;i union would work to the greatest
. pood of the Slate. It Is only by such
? concentration of effort that we may
i over hope to better social conditions.
! WOIt tv IS IVKFFKCTIVK
WIIF.X IT is niVIIIF.W
"That such a union has worked to
| advantage has been proved in the city
; of Cleveland. There flfty-six different
and distinct charitable organizations
. ared for the neglected children. The
orpaniza lions were founded or: re
: Slsrious line>.-. The work was scattered,
I and needless to say ineffective. Then,
? all of them were organized into onu
? :rr?at central bodv. which embraced
Catholic, Protestant and Jew. The re
i suit v.as that, whereas before, the ni>K
| lected children of Cleveland w-re given
f insufficient care, now Cleveland is a
| model for other cities in the United
'states in the care of neglected chll
j drcn.
Dr. Tippy was here loudly applauded.
Continuinc. he told of the difference
I between social service of to-day and
i social service twenty-live years ago.
' Then it was in a chaotic state. Chari
; ties were taken rare of in an unorpan
I ized manner. .Vow all of this is dif
i ferent. Centralized bureaus, which
! make a study of poverty, and which do
? not merely stop their work after they
j have fed hungry men. but pro still fur
| ther by going to the cause of the men's
' hungriness, and then make heroic ef
! forts to remove the cause.
j "Organized charity to-day should he
? able to meet every difficulty. Tt should
i lift the whole community, and not a
(certain proup. to a higher plane." de
clared Dr. Tippy.
I TEM.S OF Sl'FKKIIKltS
IX SOl'Tlf ('AROIjIXA
' ".l\:st as tlte State of Virginia is try
ing to pass a compulsory education law
that will take care of every child from
one end of the State to the other, so
must the social service work of the
future plan. The poor and unfortun
? ate. according to our standards of to
day. must receive the full honeilt from
those more fortunate. They must re
: ceive the help of a united people, and
? not of the scattered energies of the
'organizations of different sects."
! Dr. Tippy then told of the effect that.
] education has on the poor whites of
1 South Carolina, who are suffering from
i pellagra. Ho described the campaign
! of education in which these suffering
j people are taught that dint and sani
tary living conditions will do much to
alleviate the disease. One of the
simplest remedies, he continued, was
die sprinkling of salt in drinking
water. Such a simple matter as t!.ls
was not known to the people until
science, which is organized knowledge,
taught them its effectiveness. This Is
i an example, he said, of an organized
! and united effort to make the living
conditions of a whole section better.
| IIK PUCKS l.AYMKN
TO FICICT FOVF.UTV
Dr. Tippy also told of n Catholic
! priest who attended a meeting of
I Protestant ministers at which the
' question of caring for neglected chil
, ciren was under discussion. The priest
1 told the assembly that his religion was
far behind the times in earing for chil
J dren, and that lie hoped for united ac
i tion. Dr. Tippy ended his talk by
; urging the laymen present to fight
! poverty and social ills with a united
! front, rather than by scattering their
I energies.
I Rev. K. M. Poteat, D. D., president of
Furman University, was the next
speaker. His subject was "Spiritual
ObjectlvenQss of Business." The mean
ing of the word objective, ho said, in
tho title of his talk was best expressed
by tho questions given by two men
when asked what was their objective
(Continued on Second Page.)
THAVKI. 11V ItOAT TO BAI.TIMOItK.
Fares: I2.TA firrt cliif.s: $2.00, second riant*.
Tork lllver l.lne, Office 007 East Main St.
Rain, Hail and Snow Bring
Freezing Temperature to
Richmond.
CLEARS AFTER NIGHTFALL
Stars and Moorv Peep Out
When Gale Passes
Seaward.
Having retired with the breath of
spring upon Iter brow, Richmond awoke
yesterday morning to look upon ;i ti
overcast an<l portentous sky. ami to
pass through a day in which it rained,
sleeted and snowed until 111?? stars came
out and Shone dimly down uj>on a
; whitened city.
During the afternoon the wind, blow
| ing down from the. frozen north, rose
to a ?ale of twenty-flve miles ,tti hour,
? swirling through the street canons in
| innumerable cross currents and driving
' 1!??? snow into foot-deep drifts against
I the ground walls of the skyscrapers.
At 0 o'clock the snowfall began to de
r crease, and before 7 it had entirely
i> topped, though the dying wind still
hotvled and shrieked around the corners
| and lifted the drifts on the roofs iiito
j scurrying currents that blinded pedes
( trians and drove the policeman to any
j shelter he . could find.
Corning so suddenly on the >!\jel? of
j an early April day, the storm and cold
> brought suffering to man and beast,
' for in the many changes which this
i curious winter has brought one could
I not g<-t inured to one variation before
; another came. In a day it has been
i spring, summer and winter. In a day
j one has longed for his I'anama and his
j l'alin Reach, and then for his fur-lined
| overcoat, so Richmond shivered In
( unwonted fashion yesterday, having
, not had the opportunity for prepared
i ness.
j III.i ? I'ASSKS 'I'O SKA
j AKTKU LI3.\VI.\0 ItlClI.IIO.MJ
Tile origin of the storm was not
well defined, it was stated by the
.Weather Mureau. It seemed to come
I now all quarters at once, and at times
, Richmond was the vortex of every wiml
I that blow, so that not even a mariner
I , have wet his linger and found
. from which quarter the main blow was
I coining.
j Toward the setting of the sun, how
j ' vcr, the storm settled itself j(lto a
j delinite line, and the bitter wind blew
j keenly and coldly from the northern
: wastes. Passing over Richmond, the
: storm drove out to sea, where It soon
| was spent.
! rh*' ra,n began with a soft drizzle
shortly before the church hour, chang
ing to a heavy fall at noon. .Sleet
followed at the dinner hour, and at 3
! o clock the sleet was changed to snow,
| which came down in blinding cross cur
: rents. \V ithin three hours it was an
. inch deep on the level, and against the
| buildings where it was drifted it at
; tained a depth of a foot.
; At s o'clock in the morning the wind
i was blowing at a rate of eighteen miles
: an hour, from which it increased to a
rate or twenty miles at noon, and at
j :: o'clock it was running a gale of
j twenty-live miles an hour. At S o'clock
; !,s ^rce was spent, and before mid
night it was practically calm, and the
1 stars and moon were out.
It was still bitterly cold, and street
( thermometers registered 2:: degrees,
, nine degrees below freezing point.
| The forecast for to-day is fair and
; cold, with slowly rising temperature.
: i'hii.a Dioi. I* ii i vs s'i'Hi:r.Ts
KRSPAlltMS ICR UI.VK
? I'll 1L?AT)ELPI11 A, I'A., Pohruary 1".
i Philadelphia's streets for several hours
to-day resembled a vast network of
j frozen canals, and for the tlrst time
j in years it was possible to traverse the
city from one end to the other on ice
j skates. Great throngs of skaters took
1 advantage of the rare opportunity,
1 while few pedestrians ventured out.
i Scores of persons were injured by fall
! ing on I he icy streets, but no one was
| seriously hurt. A blinding snowstorm,
j which set in shortly after noon, spoiled
: the skating sport.
, A sleetstorm. which started early
? last night and continued until day
j break, was responsible for the unusual
j condition. Wire ami rail communica
tion in all directions were badly
crippled.
j
STORM MAIvKS WAI.IilMi
DIITK I I.T IN M;\\ YOIIK
N'RW von IC, February 13.?Pour
inches of sniiw fell hero to-day, and,
coupled with rain, sleet and Increasing
cold, made walking diflicult and seri
ously impeded the traffic.
Hospitals were busy treating per
" sons suffering from broken limbs,
j sprained ankles and wrists, although
j tin fatalities were reported. Incoming
I trains were delayed from ten to forty
I minutes. Many wires are down along
: some of the railroad lines. A force rf
I 20,00ii men was put to work clearing
j the city's streets of snow and sleet,
j The Western I'nion Telegraph Com
pany reported forty wires down he
I twoen Philadelphia and Raltimore and
? twenty-six down between llarrisliurg
laud Pittsburgh.
: siiii'Imm; in ii titiiait
(JHKATI.V l)iSO|t(.AM/,i;i)
j Shipping was greatly disorganized
j as a result of the storm. The liner
Kroonland was forced to remain out
side the harbor, owing to the blinding
snow. She probably will dock to
morrow.
Northwest storm warnings were
' hoisted along the coast to-night.
! The San Giovanni, from Naples, man
j aged to make her dock, but only after
I her commander had remained on the
| bridge for thirty-six hours battling
! with the storm.
1 The British steamer Dunclutha
readied quarantine after one of the
most, tempestuous voyages on record.
This vessel sailed from Manchester on
January 11. Captain .Tones said that
Immediately the ship reached (lie Irish
Sea lie ran Into heavy weather.
RESIGNATION HAS
MAGICAL EFFECT
When Garrison Quits Cabinet
Legislative Atmosphere Is ,
Immediately Clarified.
MAKES ARMY PLAN POSSIBLE'
President and Congress Now
Closer Together Than in
Many Months.
Washington, Kct?runr> r.v -Sec
retary of War < Sarrlson's resignation
last week has list<1 three far-reaehinn
results upon Conprfss, in the opinion
of administration leaders. When 'lie
excitement following: M?o unexpected j
development hud subsided it w.is ap- 1
parent that it had elarllled the bgisda- j
live at mo.1 phere with reward to tv.o
important issues, national defense and ,
Philippine independence. and lind served ?
almost magically to bring Conm ss ,
ami the President closer together titan !
they had been for many months.
As to the national defense, the resig- |
nation of the secretary finally sealed ,
I the fate of his continental artny plan, j
! which chairmen of both House -Mid.
Senate Military Committees declare
i never could have been accepted by,
I ?.'ongross. Work beyan at once <>n
I preparation for framing a plan of fed- |
i crali/.ation of the National Guard to.
! create ti reserve defensive force for the !
j nation.
' I.ATK.Vr KNTIII SIASM
AI(OISF.I) IV mi-: mucus;
' Latent enthusiasm for preparedness !
! was aroused in scores of influential j
i members or both branches who had ,
'been opposed to the continental army j
' plan and had been taking only a passive ;
j interest In the defense program. Now j
! these members have put their shoul
ders to the wheel, and there Is a pros- i
? peet that an army reorganisation bill j
! will be perfected in the near future. |
Representative Hay. chairman of the j
i House committee, already is at work
J redrafting the House bill eliminating
( the continental army feature. The Sen
; ate Military Committee, having eon-,
i eluded its hearings, will get down to
; the task of framing it* bill to-morrow.
1 and Senator Chamberlain, the ehalr
i man, proposes to confer with members
! of the House committee as the work
j progresses. An effort will be made by |
| both committees to co-operate as much
' as possible.
I Evidence of the fact that Mr. Garrl
j sion's withdrawol has served to cement
i the bonds of sympathy between Con
gress and the President came in the
I adoption by the Mouse Military Affairs
Committee of a resolution thanking the
[President for his expression of contl
i dence In Congress disclosed in his cor
; resnondence wi?l? Mr. Garrison. It also
? was demonstrated in comments of
j many Senators and Representatives
I who declared that they saw in Presi
| dent Wilson's determination not to
[stand irrevocably for any one plan of
j creating an army reserve, a purpose
j to place .uore reliance in the Judgment
t of tho legislative branch of the gov
: eminent than lie had in the past.
I MA V nill.VC ADOPTION
OK tl.AKKK AMKMVMLVT
i With respect to the Philippine issue,
| th<> Garrison resignation has served to
j enhance the chance of the Clarke amend -
j mo ill to the self-government hill,
i adopted by the Senile and providing
j for complete independence within four
j years, in spite of the President's own
opinion that such an amendment is un
t wise at this time. Secretary Garrison
! was bitterly opposed to the amendment,
j The House committee now has the
bill under consideration, and confer
ences with the executive have been
held on Ihe subject, all tending to
strengthen the prospects for passage
of the amendment. Tho Insular Affairs
Committee now is expected to substi
tute the substitute for its own with
few, if any. changes.
In the Senate this week tho Nicara
I Riian, Haitian and Colombian treaties
j will be the principal subjects of con
j sideratlon. Ratification of the Nicara
guan treaty is practically assured, and
the vote may be taken to-morrow.
Senator Stone proposes to call lip tho
Haitian convention next, and little op
! position is expected. The Colombian
i treaty, however, will be bitterly op
posed. and administration Senators
j themselves are almost convinced that
j it cannot be ratified in its present form.
The inquiry into the nomination of
I Louis IX Hrandois to the Supreme Court
'will bo resumed by the Judiciary sub-j
committee on Tuesday, with Mr. liran
deis's connection with the I'nited Shoo j
Machinery Company the particular
subject for investigation.
A XN I AI, Fl<;irr SOON
\V'II.I. Ill: PIIKt IIMTATI-'.I) i
The annual fight over the river i and |
harbors bill soon will be' precipitated '
j in the House. Tho $IO,t)OO.OOt? appro-I
I priation bill for this session, already I
| completed, except for n possible inclu- '
i si oil of ? nine Ik new project, that of
$700,000 for Kast River, N. V., urged
bv President Wilson, in order to pro- I
vide safe passageway to the Hrooklyn I
; Navy-Yard and an outlet between the ;
North River and Long Island Sound,
will be voted out of committee on '
Tuesday, and the bill will lie brought
up in about a fortnight to run the j
i gauntlet of the House. Many members j
propose to insist upon new projects. :
The measure is now confined to com- i
pletion of projects already authorized j
or maintenance of existing works.
The posf-otllce appropriation bill, al- j
ways the vehicle of protracted political i
oratory, is lagging along, with the j
prospect of occupying at least all of .
the coming week, except for days set |
Aside for special orders of business, j
The main tight is on the rural free [
delivery provisions and on new leg is- i
lation proposing to change the system i
of railway compensation to a space j
basis, and to provide for government i
bonding of department otllceis and j
naval contractors.
Germans Fiercely
Attacking French
Till-: t.erinnas ?r<- flrri'i'lj' at
tacking lilt- French ikinIIIimii In
the Artoi* .section, ti.s **cll an
i linmptig nc. In the latter district
llerlin reports tin- I'M pt u res of a
I'i'itnI of nlioiil TOO yurilN. while the
I-'reach iitlm it I fin C the tirrmnns liave
izalacd a foothold la some of their
advanced trenches near (he Tnltwre
Sooime-I'j roail.
lln the ttritisli ea<l of the line then*
liijte lieea sapplnu opera thins n'ld
hom lilt rd loen Is li) hatli sides.
\ll around SoIksuuI the l.eraiaa
artillery wan litmy, preparatory to
Infantry attacks) l>ut the attacks
did not eventuate. otvlag to the
t-'reucli use of their ^uns ie etirfaln
nt-llre volley*.
< oosldnrithlc damiiee has heen
done lit tlrrmna positions In the
Vriionne forest l>> the (?'reneli. Ar
tillery duels are la proKresN ia l.or
ralae and ia the VosfceN.
'I'lie heav} guns are helnic aetlve
ly employed on liotli sides in the
northern section of the Itusslaa
front. 1 mi t no important eliaiiKei
ia ponitions have neeurred.
On the llliiek Sea, Hussion tor
peilo-hont ileslroyerw have sunk ad
ditional Turkish sailing vessels, nml
hnve destroyed lirldKci ashore.
The l.rrman Kiinlioat lifdiriK von
Wlsstnnnii has heen sunk on l.ake
Tnauaniiku. .\friea. by the Ilelglnus.
Yacht I .eaves Old Point and Steams
I'p Chesapeake Bay in l-'aro of
Driving Snowstorm.
IN* W ASIIIXCJTON" EAHTjV TO-DAV
President Fares liusy Week ??f Con*
ferenres Over Appointment of New
! Secretary of War, Defense Plans
and Other Pending Legislation.
I POINT. VA? February 1,1.?1 ho
i presidential yacht MnyJ'.ower. with
President Wilson ami his wife aboard,
left Old Point, nt 2 o'clock this after
noon and steamed tip Chesapeake Bay
in the face of a driving snowstorm.
She is expected to dock at the Wash
inytotj Xavv-Yard about S o'clock to
morrow morning.
The President did not come ashore
[ during t>ie day, declining an invitation
I to play golf at the Hampton Roads
' Club, Yesterday lie and Mrs. Wilson
: inspected Fortress Monroe and made a
i launch trip to Newport News, arriving
! iust too late to see a big tank steamer
; launched at the shipyard there.
| '
j WII.I. ItCAt'll WASHINGTON
HAU1.V THIS MOHM.NO
WASH I NOT' i.V. February 13.?A
j wireless message from the Mayflower
i to ili' Arlington station ;.t !? o'clock
I to-night said the yacht was steaming
i easily up the bay, and would reach
j here ?.arl> t.'-uiorrow morning. Tne
| weather had cleared.
| MARKS lir.GIN'M.Vt;
or MUtV IIL'SV WIJICIv
WAiSIi INGTON, Pchruury 13.?i'resi
jdcjit Wilson's return to Washington
i to-morrow troni his week-end cruise
? on the Mayflower will mark the begin
; ning of it busy week of conferences
i with leaders in Congress over the ap
j pointment of a new Secretary of War.
j national defense plans, and other pend
| ing legislation.
( Among those with whom the Presi
| dent has appointments to-morrow are
| several congressional delegations with
j candidates for the vacancy in his Cab
l inet. and others who want to suggest.
! men for the assistant secretaryship.
( I lie President's advisers think that
tin- new Secretary of War will he
permitted to name his assistant.
1'tiler delegations of Representatives
have appointments to urge the Presi
dent to visit then districts i i his next
tour of the connlev to advocate pre
paredness. The Pre.'.dent has indi
cated. however, that no does not ex
pect to start soon o*i another trip.
The usual semiueekly Cabinet meet
ings on Tuesday and Friday and fie
congressional reception on Friday
night also are on the week's program,
and there will be conferences the lat
ter part of I ho week, with House lead
er., on the rural credit hill and with
House nml Senate leaders on national
prepa redness.
Sundax saw no new candidate* men
tioned for Secretary of War. The im
pression seemed to be growing among
the President's advisers that the new
secretary would not be chosen from
the army. Such a decision by the
President would eliminate Major-Gen
era 1 Ooethals. who has been indorsed
by more than forty Koprosentat 1ves.
VENIZELOS IS CANDIDATE
Former Premier of Greece Decide** to
Itctui-n to Active I'olltlenl
I.lie.
PA I wis, February 13.?The .Journal's
Athens correspondent says that former
Premier Venizelos of Greece has de
cided to return to active political life?
becoming a candidate for a vacancy In
the ? ha tuber of Deputies from Mytl
lone.
M. Wnl/.elos resigned the premier
ship twice during the war. owing to
the opposition of King Constantino to
his policy in favor of tiio entrance of
t.rcece Into the war on the side of the
entente allies. He lias not been active
politically since the recent general
elections.
F
Attack Along: Whole Line
From Flanders to
Champagne.
PIERCE ALLIES' LINES AT
FIVE DIFFERENT POINTS
Hand-Grcnade Battles Continue
Without Interruption in
Western Theater.
RUSSIAN'S ST11.L OX OFFF.XSIVK
Force Almost Inaccessible Passes
and Continue to Make
Frogrcss.
i [Special Cnble to The Timcs-L'lspateh.1
IjONDON, February 13.?The Ger
mans. attacking along the whole line
from Flanders to Champagne, have
penetrated the allies' line at five dif
ferent ooints. according to official re
j ports received to-night. At three
'points the attackers were again- ex
j pelleO. but at one point in Flanders and
j at another in Champagne they have
maintained their gains. All reports m
\ dicate terrific and repeated attacks,
I with the Germans mainly on the of
fensive in the Infantry actions.
' The most vicious fighting occurred
j around hill H?, in Artois. West of
! tliis height the Germ ms to-day
I launched five desperate attacks. Tho
j final assault carried the 'German;*
I ihi ouch the French first-line tlefonacs.
?The French Immediately launched a
(counterattack, which drove the Ger
I mans out. with heavy losses In dead
and wounded.
i Five successive counterattacks also
were made by the Germans late yes
| terday afternoon and last night in an
| effort to retrieve the trenches lost to
j the French east of Hutte-du-.Mesi'il.
i The Berlin statement on fighting in
j this sector says that the Germans
: stormed tho French front over 700
! yards south of St. Marle-a-Py, cap
turing more than 200 officers and men.
Fighting around Vlmy up to last
Wednesday netted nearly "00 prisoners
to the Germans, besides twenty-five
machine guiis ami other material, ac
cording to the Bfcrlin statement.
KKItl.1V CI.A IMS CAI'TIIKK
OF 700 VAHI)S OF THKXCI1KS
RKRLIX (Via London), February 13.
? Heavy fighting is In progress in
Champagne. The German War Office
announced to-day the capture of French
positions extending over a front of
about 700 yards. In Flanders the Ger
' mans penetrated positions of the ?.?n
'> tente allies. The statement follows:
"Western front: In Flanders, after
lively artillery lighting, our natrols
and strong reconuoitering detachments
penetrated positions of the enemy. Sev
eral mines were exploded effectively.
Southeast of Boesinnigho more than
forty yards were captured. British ar
tillery bombarded the town of l.ille
yesterday and Friday. Considerable
material damage was done, but there
was no loss of life or destruction of
military property.
"On our front, between La Bnssee
Canal and Arras, and also south of tho
| Sommv, hostilities were impeded by
bad weather. In the lighting In the
region northwest and west of Vlmy up
to February f? we captured nine of
ficers. f>S:i men, thirty.five machine
guns, two mine-throwers, and stores
of various descriptions. Our artillery
shelled heavily tho enemy's positions
between the Olse and Rhelms. with good
success, as is confirmed by patrols.
"In Champagne, south of Sainte
Marie-a-Py, we stormed French posi
tions extending about 700 yards, cap
turing four officers and 202 men. N'orth
west of Massignes the eneniv unsuc
cessfully made two violent attacks.
Hand-grenade battle continue with
out Interruption over the portion of
our.trenches to the east, of Matson do
Champagne, which the French occupied
I on February 11. Between the Ale use
| and the Moselle we destroyed by five
j large explosions the advanced trenchcs
of the enemy over a front of thirty to
| forty yards. Lively artillery fighting
j is proceeding in Lorraine and in tho
j Vosges. south of Itusse. Bast of St.
il'ie. a German detachment penetrated
j advanced portions of the enemy's posi
| lion, and captured more than thirty
: chasseurs.
i "Our aeroplanes bombarded enem\
! posit ions and the railway establish
? m<.-nts at La Panne and Poperingh .
, An attack made by an enemy aeroplans
on (.hiiiicllos, south of Osteml, caused
j no damage.
"Kastern front: The situation gencr
; ally is unchanged. Bast of f'.arano
j vichi two advanced positions held by
the Russians on the west bank of tho
I Czara were stormed.
"Balkan front: There is nothing to
report "
(?1-MtMA \S IMf.i |'|;|)
in < ot vu:it \tt\t k
; PABI>, February 13?Tho following
official statement was given out here
j to-day:
I ?> the north of V'.c-sur-Aisne our
| artillery dispersed enemy detachments
j which had i.dvanced as far us our u ir?!
! entanglements.
j !o the northeast of .^olssons 'lie
, Ctermans were able, after a bombard
l ment, to reach one of our trenches
j In the neighborhood of the Crouy Road,
\ counterattack ejected Burn Imme
diately. The enemy Uft a number of
dead on the field, and we tool: norm*
prisoners, of \% hom one was an of
licer.
"In the In the region fo
the northeast of the tintte-dn-Me?nllf
(he Germans late yostent^.v atid dur
ing the night direct, d live successive
counterattacks against the trenches
