5R5
ti mninp. o wmmw ' mtaww wme-mmP
!MwwmN'HJiimM','wii jj' w i wjKi,iwlit''lllj fjfrw.wwq)awwywgi
FINANCIAL EDITION
NIGHT
EXTRA
aieirger
NrGHT
EXTRA
trcttmg
JL
-ic:
a
VOL. 11.-40. 131
PHILADELPHIA, MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11, ID 1(5.
Cortxtour, 1010, it tiic 1'cbUo LtDOEi Courier.
PRIOB OKU CENT
3
f
I
ft
w
TEUTONS AGAIN
I SMASH FRENCH
IN CHAMPAGNE
4"
I Seven Hundred Yards of
Trenches .Near Tanure
ILSO GAIN IN ALSACE
.
Paris Reports Capture of Ger-
mf1 ' T)nS4'inia nf TPiion
Repulse Attacks
A Gcrmnn oftcnslvo of great magni
tude and scopo Is under way on tho
went front. The most eovcro fighting
jlnwlast September Is reported by both
Paris and Berlin.
Tho chief efforts of tho Germans
jecm to bo directed at that portion of
the lFronch lines In tho Tahuro dis
trict of Clinmpagne, where they' lost
ground last'fnll.
Moro than a mile of French trenches
In the Tnliuro section have been cap
tured by assault and form tho apex
of alwcdge which tho Germans are try
ing to drive into tho French llnes'there.
ImpoVtant gains In Alsaco are reported
by Berlin, but Paris asserts most of
tho lost positions were -retaken.
South of Arras, at Frlse, Paris re
ports that counter attacks regained
some positions.
Against the British lines north of.
Tprcs and In tho extreme- southern end
of tho battle line, closo to tho Swiss
border, the Germans havo mado at
tacks without gaining any positions of
Importance.
Losses on both sides havo been heavy,
but the Teutons, In their offensive role,
have probably been tho greatest suf
ferers. BERLIN, Feb. II.
The Bain of 700 yards more of French
trenches In Champagno uas -announced
today by tho German War Olllce.
Within 21 hours tho Germans have
captured French positions over a front
nearly a mile wide In Champagne.
In Artols tho Allies aro carrying out a
lolcnt cannonade.
In I the Vosges 400 yards of French
trenches havo been captured nftur stub,
born fighting.
Tho text nf tho official Gcrmnn state
ment follows:
"LUcly artillery duels continued
throughout the night over tho greater part
JLUje front. The. enemy 'agnln sholled
f ,LUsr and tho Germnn ppsltlona on tho
Uerin-lna road. South of tho Sommc
THrtr stubborn fighting developed around
.an advanced saphcad of our position, com-
I Continued on I'nco I'our, Column BIx
374 U-BOAT VICTIMS
ON FRENCH CRUISER
Admiral Charner Sunk
Coast of Syria One
Man Saved
Off
PARIS, Feb. H.
The French cruiser, Admiral Charner,
has been sunk off tho Syrian coast by a
German submarine, with tho loos of 371
men, It was ilellnltcly learned today. Tho
essel went down In two minute) after
he had been Htruck by tho torpedo,
Tho French Ministry of Marino on Sun
day Issued an official statement, sayln?
that tho nbsence of news from tho Ad
miral Charner had given rise to fears that
she had been destroyed.
The. Admiral Charner was a vessel of
W0 tons, Sho was laid down In.lSM and
completed In 1S93. Her armament con
ilsted of two 7.6-Inch guns, six 3.5-lnch
runs, four 9-pounders, four 3-pounders,
six 1-pounders and five torpedo tubes.
She carried a crew of from 370 to 3S0 men.
Two Escaped Prisoners Captured
LANCASTER, Pa., Feb. 14. Ilodney H.
Hart and Harry L. Smith, two of tho
four prisoners who escaped from tho Lan
caster County prison Friday night, have
been captured at Oxford, Chester County,
ana m be returned to tho prison here
today.
THE WEATHER
The weather Is getting warmer. Latest
reports Show nn llnnltprnMA .lotnvmlnn-
R Uon On the nnrf nf tl. ,n-,.,,. m ,-
Eg five within hailing distance of the freez-
1 V.' "" we make the follow Ins pre-
St diction XTitni. ,..-. t ..!.. .
m- i. T. wu mi liter mio una utituuouu
wmui u was at 7 o'clock this morninir."
APrODOS nf AVtrArnaa na tiAt'an nnii1.l nn.
ff ta,nd. wh" tne wh"e world did not
t Cl rlCh nfrfvf Mia onAl. mn.t.n 1.n.1
f j- "-- nvui,n tut i nci jiuit
I M?J?dy can Prophesy a change when the
ijunucis reached, for what goes down has
w cpme up. We live at th fulcrum of
i -v!nauium and all we have to do Is to
l.-measurn h. aivi,,na y unHA ,, ,
Ii ,.? TrB"E n revolution In tho air, one
"' wor'd has grown too conservative,
t2?,,Mln predict a radical swing. The
iroublo with most of us Is that we are
JJ2L .5 '"sects that go crawling out
dnhli. ,hefulcrum to .the end of the pen
Buium, flo want to get "into the swing"
l jnjngs. But when you are part of the
mouon, you fail to move; you fall to
rpeivo what Is happening or what will
"appen.
The wnv . i il. ..
n - " ciJciicm;c3 tne (uoi)ons oi
rino . " jui jcei uii aumintng inai
sees not move.
FORECAST
b7 ; Philadelphia and vicinity
fair tonwht and Tuesday; continued
w tonight; warmer Tuesday; mod
note northerly winds.
I tOr dllfntf a.. . 1
.Mi,bw ,,v fiyu .w9
LOST AND FOUND
PFeHX"
waUtaliT. VS'', "ma" "F0" fra baa:,
m tt-SiiJS5n.?- . Martin'. waad Chestnut
t a n JTT "-..-"' i - ... .. .
turned ii ir ,Vl . "' ciU Si rra ir r-Stoi-
i"atle. 8s;o Oermatitown ave.
Kt2n ef "it cof.1 b'ob. 8prJoiaeld at.
SftcS - Holland. MOd Cbeitnut L
rsirJ.i'ii'i!4 lludaon aeal neckplec loat at
1H- Lnat sad louud au oa !' 1
GENERAL ELECTMC AVOllKS
SWEPT BY 18000 BLAZE
Ammunition Flarvt nt Schenectady
Damaged by Firo
SCHENKCTADY, f. Y., Fob. It.-Whllo
200 watchmen, nrmed with rlnes, patrolled
tho plant, firo early today attacked tho
ammunition works of the General Electric
Company, causing damage estimated at
between $6000 and $8000.
Tho firo started In a section devoted to
metal borlnngs, which were soaked with
oil, and spread to Bovcral metal casks
filled with oil. Tho explosion of tho
tanks led to rumors of a bomb plot,
but Mnnagcr Gcorgo E. Emmons of tho
company scouted tho theory. Spontaneous
COmhllAtlnn. hi ndlrl. entlftArl I,a Kin
Four hundred employes wero thrown
out of work In tho ammunition depart
ment. Tho shell boring room was among
tho sections destroyed.
FIVE ABOVE ZERO;
COLDEST DAY OF
WINTER IN CITY
Secret Service Unearths
Evidence of Plot to
Invade Dominion
THE WORST "ICE STORM"
Winter's Coldest Day So Far
Degrees
Midnight 13
1 a. m 12
2 n. in 11
3 a. m 10
4 a. m 0
!5 a. m 7
f a. m 7
7 a. m 5
8 a. m 6
9a.m 7
10 a. m 8
11a. m '.. 11
Noon 12
lp. m 13
2 p. m 15
Tho coldest day so far this winter the
most biting wind nnd tho most trenchcr
ous underfoot dawned on the city this
morning, with a temperaturo of B degrees
above zero.
Zero temperatures wero recorded un
officially by thermometers In the suburbs.
Some of tho figures wore Nnrberth, 1 be
low; Haddon Heights, Taoll and Merlon,
zoro; Chestnut Hill. 1; Jit. Airy nnd
Woodford Guard House, 2; Haverford. 3.
At Pittsburgh It was 2 degrees below
zero this morning.
Tho forecast Is fair tonight and Tues
day, continued cold; warmer Wednesday.
Shipping endangered, many telegraph
and telephone lines destroyed, pedestrians
Injured by falling, and trees broken down,
Is the result of n combined attack of Ico
and snow, which mado up one of tho
worst "lea storms" In tho city's history.
Hundreds of porsons were Injured by fails
and thero were many broken bones.-, Ice,
coating trees, wires and bultdlugs, caused
many breakdowns.
Besides being the coldest day so far
recorded this winter, this Is tho coldest
February 14 on record. Tho temperature
was G at 7 a. m. The coldest previous day
this winter was January 18, with a tem
perature of 9 degrees.
The streets, coated with snow, with a
Continued on Puce SeTen, Column To
FIRES GUN WITH FOOT; DEAD
Farm Hand, Near Norristown, 111,
. Commits Suicide
NORRISTOWN. Pa.. Feb. 14. While
despondent, owing to poor health, Don
Jamln Ughtllnger, CO years old, employed
on tho farm of James Long, nt King of
Prussia, committed suicide hy shooting
himself In tho head. A shotgun wns used.
With a string tied to tho trigger. Llgnt
llnger succeeded In discharging tho gun
with tho other end tied about his foot.
GIRL SOLD BY WHITE SLAVERS
Fifty Dollars Price Asked for Stella
Ruth, of Newark
NEW YORK, Feb. 11. After being miss
ing from her homo In Newark, N. J.,
since last July. Stella Ruth told the po
lice here today sho had been lured from
nor home and rold by white slavers ,for
$30 Bhe said she was first sold to a man
In Hoboken and later to another In Scran-
Sylvlo' Tagllantl, nccuscd by the girl,
was arrested and will be arraigned on a
charge of violating the Mann act.
WILLIAM J. NIC0LLS
FALLS DEAD AT CLUB
Author and Prominent Coal Op
erator Succumbs as He
Goes to Breakfast
William Jasper Nlcolls, author, club
man and for many years a prominent fig
ure among the coal operators of this
State, fell dead shortly before 9 o clock
this morning In the Art Club. Dr. War
ren B Davis, 135 South 18th street, pro
nounced the death due to apoplexy,
Mr Nlcolls. though living temporarily
nt le'O Spruce street, had been taking
his meals at the Art Club for many weeks.
Uut for the last 10 days had contained
of Ill-health. He came to the club about
8:30 o'clock this morning, removed his
coat and hat and started for the break
fast room, but had taken only two or
three steps when he staggered and fell
to' "he Toor. Death is said to have been
almost Instantaneous.
Mrs Nlcolls, who has been residing with
her daughteV Claire, at Bellefonte, Pa,
for several months, recently came to this
cy to visit friends In Germantown. She
knew nothing of her husband's death
untl7Mn Nlcolls' sUter-ln-Uw, Mrs. Anne
NUolls. 10H South 49th street, reached
her by automobile. -
Mr Nlcolls was born In Camden, N. J,
in 1853. Tis father was chief engineer of
the Philadelphia and Heading Railway.
Through hl father's acquaintance with
the- coa Interests of Pennsylvania he be
came extensively Interested In Mverel
mines and served as president of the
inona Coal and Coke Company. Later
he figured In other coal mining concerns.
At the time of his death he was operating
a company under his own name, with offi
ces In the Lafayette Building.
CRANK ATTEMPTS TO SHOOT
JOHN M0NAGHAN IN CAFE;
COMMISSIONER STOPS HIM
Disarms a Man Who
Cries Out, "I Am Go-ing-.toKillYouI"
Assailant Presses Revolver
Against Chest of Intended
Viatim, Who Grabs Him and
Kicks Him Out of the Res
taurant Name of Would-Bo Assassin Is Known
and an Arrest Is Expected Is Snid
to Have Asserted He "Hnd Been .'
Done Out of n Job"
An attempt was mado today to shoot
John Monaghnn, Public Sorjlcr Commit
sloner, In tho lunch room f tho Little
Wllniot Hotel, on South I'cnn Square,
west of Broad street, opposite City Hall
where Mr. Monaghan went to lunch.
Tho mnn who made the attempt was
disarmed by Mr. Monaghan after a strug
gle. No shots wcro fired, so quickly did
Mr. Monaghan act when ho felt a re
volver pressed against his chest.
No arrest has been made, but tho police
are after tho assailant, who I known to
Mr. Monaghan, but whoso nnmo was not
mado public.
Tho assallnnt Is said to bo a person
who tins uiltlen threatening letters to
tho Public Service Commissioner, under
the dcltslon that he has been "done out
of n Job."
Mr. Monnghan walked Into the dining
room shortly after 1:30 p. m. A man who
had evidently been waiting for him
stepped up to htm a moment after ho had
entered the door.
"Now, you ," he said. "I've got
you. You did mo out of a Job. I'm going
to kill you."
With that ho pressed a revolver against
Mr. Monaghan's chett.
No one else In tho room except tho two
men knew what was going on. Uut Mr.
'.Monaghan quickly seized tho revolver
hand with both his powerful palms and
Jerked tho muzzle of tho gun clear of
his body.
"Help mo, somebody!" ho shouted.
Men sprang from tho tables where they
were sitting, and the nssallant uns dis
armed after a sharp struggle.
His "dander" aroused by tho attempt
to take his life, Mr. Monaghan seized
his nssallant and literally kicked him out
of the cafo Into (tho street. The man
picked himself up nnd ran, disappearing
aftor a short pursuit. Tho revolver re
mained In tho dining room.
Mr, Monaghan then notified tho police,
naming his nssallant to them.
"I know tills man," ho. ald, but tho
namo was itot given out. It Is under
stood that It will be kept secret until ln
arrest Is made.
U. S. FINDS ARMS
HIDDEN CLOSE TO
CANADIAN LINE
Secret Service Unearth Evi
dence of Plot to In
vade Dominion
STORED FOR SOME TIME
WASHINGTON, Fob. II.
Agents of th Oepartment of Justice
this afternoon telegraphed officials here
that they have located several secret
stores of arms and ammunition along the
Canadian border. Thoy gavo It as their
belief that the stores had been estab
lished for a possible Invasion of Canada.
The reports show that no attei.,pts have
been mado recently to move tho supplies.
Scores of Government agents aro now
watching each supply base It was stated
here that the supplies probably will not
be molested nt present. It was Indicated
that an uttempt will bo made to catch
the owners through watching tho stores.
Every train going Into Canada is now
being thoroughly searched by Canadian
and American officials, working together,
It was stated here today.
MILANO B0MBARDATA
DA VELIV0LI AUSTRIACI
La Rumania E' Pronta ad Inter
venire nella Guerra a Fianco
degli Alleati
Un telegramma da Mliano dice cho lerl
sera alcunl aeroplanl austriaci sono
apparsi sopra la cltta' di Milano e 1'hanno
bombardata dall'alto.
Dtspaccl da Milano dlcono che scl per
sone sono rlmaste ucclse In questa nuova
impresa aerea austrlaca. Gli aeroplanl
dovettero percorrere le settanta mlglla che
separano la cltta' nttaccata dalle llnee
nemiche nel Trentlno.
Telegramml da Parlgl dlcono che la
Rumania st avvlclna sempre plu' nll'ln
tervento a flanco degll alleati. I rumenl
hanno completaio la mobllltazlone del
loro eserclto e la. costruzlone delle opere
d dlfesa sulla frontlera bulgara e su
quella austrlaca. II lavoro Intorno a
questl fortl e' continuato per tutto
l'lnvemo.
Brland ha completato a Roma gll ac
cord! per I'unlta' dt azlone degll alleati,
tanto polltlea che mllltare. L'ambascla
tore Tittonl ed II generate Porro rappre
senteranno l'ltalla al consign di guerra
cha'sl terranno a Parlgl a comlnclare dal
prlmi dl,marzo.
(Leggere In 5a paglna le ultimo e plu'
dettagllate notlzle sulla guerra, In Ital
lano.) Von Papen Wins Red Eagle
ROME, Feb. 11. Swiss dispatches to
day reported that Kaiser Ayilhelm has
conferred the. Order of the Red Eagle
upon Captain Franz von Papen, recalled
German military attache to the United
States.
' t , '
i Jli 1111111 I
'Ik 11
'
JOHN MONAGHAN
POISON BANQUET
CHEF WAS FRIEND
OF KING'S SLAYER
Crones, of Chicago, Sought
World-Wide Anarchist
Scheme
BASE AT PATERSON, N. J.
CHICAGO, Feb. 14. J can Crones, want
ed on suspicion that ho attempted to
poison Z guests nt tho Archbishop
Mundcleln banquet last Thursday night,
has been identified as a member of an
International band of uu.irchiKts and mur
derers, with headquarters in Pntcrson,
N. J., according to letteis which tho police
seized after Crones fled.
Tho letters which wero found In hli
room disclosed that Crones was a. filend
nnd compatriot of Gaetcno Iiroscl, tho
anarchist wlip killed rfilng Humbert of
Italy, July 20, 1M0. Until iccently Crones
roomed at tho homo of llrcscl'a widow. In
Chicago, Her hblisu wns a meeting plnco
for nnarchlsts. Tito plot to kill King
iiuniDcrt was hatched In Hncltensacu, N.
J., by French and Italian nnnrchlMs.
Messages seeking plot Information wcro
sent to numcious Kiistern cities, including
Patcrson and Hcranton, Pa.
A letter found among Crones' effects
mado refcrenco to a vest-pocket bomb,
which ho had neaily perfected after
working on It nearly tlueo ears. This
bomb, tho letter said, "If placed behind
a policeman, nt Madison nnd State sticets,
would blow him over tho top of a high
building."
Frequent references wcio found In tho
letters to John Aliegrlnl, a closo friend
of Crones, who Is already lu custody.
Tho pollco said that tho letters show
Aliegrlnl to bo n member of international
anarchistic bands.
The pollco bollovo that lu tho letters
they will find tho solution of no fewer
than n dozen murder and that the lo.ts of
them by tho anarchistic band will now
prevent many murders which had been
planned.
Tho trail of Crones has been picked up
by the authorities. After midnight one
of tho 400 men who havo been hunting
Crones stumbled upon information that
is expected to result In a speedy arrest.
"Wo know -here he Is hiding," said tho
agent. "Thero will be a raid today."
Seek Man Who Threatened Daniels
BUFFALO, N. Y., Feb. 14 -Alleged to
have threatened tho life of Secretary of
the Navy Daniels In two Iottcis sent to
that official, a mnn who Is said to h.ivo
been a deserter from the United States
navy is being sought by tho Federal au
thorities here today.
Federal officials would not divulge tho
man's name His sanity Ih. questioned nnd
ho is considered dnngcious to bo at laige.
TRAMPS, AT NARBERTH,
HUNTED IN STABLE FIRE
$300,000 Property Menaced by
Belmont Blaze Convent
Children Guarded
The Lower Merlon pollco today are
searching for a party of tramps who are
suspected of having been responsible for
a fire which destroyed 300 feet of training
stablfs at the Belmont raco track at
Narberth, and for several hours threat
ened tho convent of the Sisters of Mercy,
which houses more than 400 children and
young girls.
The Belmont Driving Club, a big five,
story frame structure valued at ,100,00'0,
and the old Quaker Meeting House also
were endangered by the blaze.
Presence of mind was displayed by the
sistera la the convent of the Sisters of
Mercy when the lire started on Saturday
night. When the glare of the blaze ilium.
Inated the country about there was panic
among the children of the convent. The
training stables are only u little more
than 100 feet from tho convent, and
showers of sparks fell upon the latter
building.
Tho sisters marshaled the children In
single rile and marched them to the first
floor or the convent, where they were kept
lu readiness to flee the building should
occasion demand such action.
Fire companies of Cynwyd, Karberth
and Ardmore had a strenuous tight to
reach tho Are. because of tlue ullppery
condition of the roads. The highways
were strewn with trees which had become
broken by their heavy burden of Ice and
snow. Frequent f tops had to be made to
remove these obstacles.
20,000 "AMENS"
FLING ATB00ZE
"Billy" Rouses Huge Audi
ence at Convention
Hall Here
PREACHES NEW SERMON
Great Throng Shrieks and Yells
as Evangelist Pounds
Devil
Hot Shots From "Billu"
Sunday's Afternoon Sermon
The Lord snve us from off-hund-cd,
Hubby - checked, brittle - boned,
weak-kneed, thin-skinned, pliable,,
plastic, spineless, effeminate, sisai
flcd, three-carat Christianity.
The road into the kingdom of
God i3 not by the bathtub, nor by
the university, nor by the gymnasi
um, but by the blood-red road of
the cross.
A church thnt is merely evan
gelical is a church on ice.' A church
thnt is evangelistic is a church on
fire.
The prophets all carried the big
stick.
A man without a temper is a
man without force. Men of genius,
without exception, have been fiery
spirits (ire-eaters.
Many of our cities today arc car
buncles on the neck of the body
politic. The civilization of tho
future will centre more and more
in the cities.
I'm looking for n saint who will
go on the warpath for purity, so
briety and for righteousness.
We arc hungry for a believer
who will throw down the gauntlet
and take up the cudgels for re
forms in civic and social life.
Doors for tonight's meeting open
nt (!:n0 o'clock. Singing starts at
7. No scnts held after 7:15, and,
owing to the rush of persons with
out tickets, those entitled to admis
sion arc urged to be at Convention
Hall as soon ns the doors open.
Mr. Sunday will preach a new ser
mon on "Samson and Delilah."
Hang! lie's hit "Phllly" again and tho
devil and nil his Imps hnvn taken to
cover. "UIHy" Sunday, smiling, flopping
his arms, smashing tho pulpit with
mighty blows, mllttstrit In every word of
his gnttllng gun, baseball vernacular,
struck at "booze" and pin with all his
power nnd called upon all Christians to
do likewise, nt a great meeting In Con
vention Ilnli. Iirndd street and Allegheny
avenue, this afternoon. It was one of
tho greatest meetings Sunday ever ad
dressed. It wiih tho namo "Billy" who led thou
sands down tho sawdust trail In his big
tahernaclo campaign hero last winter, nnd
ho did not seem to havo lost any of ills
old-tlmo "pop" when ho leaped to the
iilatfoim ljoforo an audlonce of 20,000
sci earning, shilcklug, npplnudlng ndmlr
ors to firo tho tlrst gnu In tho greatest
uatlon-uldo temperance campaign that
has uver been waged in tho United States.
Ho came hero -because of tho Importation
of tho meeting nnd because of his "love
for dear old 'Phiily,' " ho said. Ho re-
Continued on I'ace Tour. Column Two
AUSTRIAN AIRMEN
SHELL MILAN AND
RAVENNA, KILL 21
Famous Art Centres Raid
ed Women and Children
Among Victims
ITALIANS LOSE TRENCHES
ItOMi:, Feb. H.
Six persons were killed by Austrian
aeroplanes In a raid on Milan last night,
according to dispatches received her to
day. Milan in the third largest city lu Italy,
having a population of more than 000,000.
It lies TO miles from the Austrian Hues
In the Trentlno region and Is the capital
of the provlnco of Milan. Mngnlllcent
churches, museums and educational Insti
tutions aro located there.
Austrian aeroplanes made a raid yes.
terday over Itavenna and tho neighbor
ing towns of Codlgoro and Ilottrlghe, in
northeastern Italy near tho Adriatic.
Dispatches reaching hero say IB per
sons were killed and a number wounded.
Several women and children were among
the injured.
A hospital and the basilica of Sant'
Apolllnaro at Itavenna were damaged.
Ravenna is, next to Rome, the most Im
portant city of Italy In connection with
the history nf early Christian art. There
aro two basilicas of Sant' Apollinare at
Itavenna, Sant' Apollinare Nuovo and
Sant' Apollinare In Classe Fuorl, both dat
ing from the sixth century, and both
rich In mosaics of that period. Bant'
Apollinare In Classe, situated Just out
bldo the walls of the city, is the older,
and was restored in 1779.
The following official communication
was issued last night:
"Our artillery action today was mark
edly effective against columns of wagons
on the eastern slopes of Uraena, In the
Laraglna Valley, against parties of enemy
soldiers in the environs of Luserna, In the
I
Continued on I'aie Four, Column lire
SIo, Machine in Cigar Store Seized
A slot machine which, according to the
police conies within the classification of
gambling devices, was seized by special
policemen of the Reserve Corps In a rear
room of the cigar store of Daniel Oat row,
at 703 Chestnut street, at noon today.
Tho machine was taken to the Central
Station where It was placed with others
which will be destroy.
II
QUICK JEWS
FIVE CAUGHT IN GAMBLERS' ROUND-UP
Captain Nlhcolas J. Kenny personally directed a squad of picked
men this afternoon and nnestotl five alleged gamblers on the fringe
of the Tenderloin. The men were nrrcstetl on the complaint of n West
Phlladelphian who said he lost 910,000 'plnying the ponies" In the
places said to be conducted by those ai rested.
POPE PROTESTS AGAINST SHELLING OF CHURCH
KOME, Feb. 14. -Pope Benedict XV is reported to have tele
grophed to the Papal Nuncio nt Vienna piote&ting against the bom
bardment of the Church of St. Apollionnrc in Itavcnna by Austrian
airman.
1 nnmtt.trtT , i mtt Y-
JYICUlltUOlA, LAKULrjV ILi
LONDON', Fell. M. Tho llrltlsh light cruiser Arethusla hns been wrecked
Rtrlklng n. mine nnd piobably will ho n total loss, It was nnnounced today
the Admiralty.
by
by
Ten sailors on tho cruiser lost their lives. .,
The ArpllitiHln'i displacement Is .15"0 Ioiih, and Hlfo hns been used for
patrol duty lu the North Kcu. She wis armed with two six-Inch nnd six four
Inch guns and four torpedo tubes. Tho Arothuxlu was put In commission In
lftl.t. She h 4,"0 feel long. The Arethusla hnd several encounters with
(crmnn torpedobouls nnd other warships early In tho war, nnd became known
us the daredevil of the Ihigllsh licet. Ilor cxploltH inspired sevcrat ICngllsh poets
to create rhymes In her honor nnd the ArethuHlu's crew wero popular heroes In
Knglnnd.
TWENTY HURT IN SILK STRIKERS' RIOT
I'AWTL'CKKT. II. I.. Feb. 1-1. Twenty men were cut and clubbed In a riot
among o'peratlvcH nt the Koynl Weaving Comimny'n silk mill today, caused
by the lofuxal of some nf the operatives to' go out on n second strike. Tlfo
I rioters bioko machinery befnm they were dispersed by the police. Tho 000
oprullves had been back working u
of two of the mtmhep of the stilke
to walk mil.
LONDON MEETING DEMANDS STRICTER BLOCKADE
LONDON, Feb. 1-1. Severe criticism was launched ngalnst tho British For
eign Ofllce today at a mass-mooting which was called to protest against tho In
adequacy of the blockade against Germany. It was charged that tho Foreign
Olllce Is hampering the navy nnd is allowing goods to reach Germany through
neutral ports by means of an agreement with Scandinavian merchants. Tho
Government was urged to give tho navy fuller powers in enforcing the blockade.
SLAV BLACK SEA FLEET SHELLS TURKS NEAR VITZE
PHTROGItAD, Feb. 14. Tho Itusslan Black Sea fleet silenced a portion
of tho Turkish shoro batteries near Vltzo during a heavy bombardment. It was
olllclally announced today.
SHELLS FALL NEAR BELGIAN KING'S HOME
LONDON". Fell. M. Shells fell within a few urda of the royal villa at
I.a Panne, Belgium, during tho German ulr attack there on Sunday, according
to Information received In London today. King Albert of Belgium nnd Queen
Kllzabeth have been living at La Panno sncol tho early days of ho war and hav
had a number of narrow escapes from death.
MANY HURT IN NEW YORK ELEVATED CRASH
NKW YOIIK, Feb. 14. Many persons wero Injured today in a rear-end
collision of two trains on tho 3d avenue elevated lino nt 183d street. An
express train crowded with men nnd women was stalled at tho station when
nnother train crashed into it from behind. Tho rear car of tho stalled train
and the front cur of tho second wero smashed. Ambulances wero summoned
and tho Injured carried over slippery track to receive medical attention.
BRITISH SENTENCE GLOVEMAKERS
LONDON, Feb. 14. Members of tho Fowncs Company, gloves makers, in
dicted for tinding Willi tho enemy, today withdrew their plea of not guilty and
pleaded guilty. Gardiner Itigdcn, a member of tho firm, wns fined $2500; Wil
liam F. Rlgden, another member, was sentenced to 12 months' imprisonment,
nnd a third member, Stanley F. Iligdou, was sentenced to four months. Tho
defendants must pay tho costs of tho prosecution.
ZEPPELIN FALLS INTO NORTH SEA; SLOWLY SINKING
COPKNHAGKN, Feb. 14. Zeppelin L-110. tho German airship which was
reported to bo helpless ahovo tho North Sea yesterday, fell Into tho water today,
according to a dispatch from Ksjbcrg. It was said to bo slowly sinking, with
tho crew clinging to tho superstructure.
GRAHAME-WHITE NOT WOUNDED
LONDON, Feb. 14. Reports that Claudo Grahaino-Whlto had been serl
ously injured In France wero denied hy tho famous British aviator today, who
Is now In London, Tho report that ho had been wounded was received here
la a news agency dispatch from Hnzebrouclc, France.
TURKS RUSH TROOPS TO TWO MENACED FRONTS
SALONIC'A, Feb. 14. Great Turkish forces aro being dispatched from
Galllpoll Peninsula nnd Thruco to Mesopotamia mid tho Caucasus to with
stand tho attacks being mado by British and Russian troops on those fronts,
according to advices received from Constantinople, Tho reports also state
that Knver Pasha, tho Turkish dictator, hus split with tho Germans with
reference to this action, tho Teuton leaders having demanded Ottoman forcea
bo held where they could co-opemto with tho Bulgnrs.
PRESIDENT BACK IN WASHINGTON
"WASHINGTON, Feb. 14. After a very rough trip through Chesupeako Day
and tho lower Potomac River, the presidential yacht Mayflower, with President
and Mrs. Wilson on board, returned to Washington today. The presidential
party camo nshore shortly after 8 o'clock and went direct to the White House.
Both the President and his bride are declared to havo thoroughly enjoyed them
selves, despite the fact that high winds accompanying the end of a blizzard
caused the yacht to roll heavily for many hours.
BELGIANS SINK GERMAN GUNBOAT ON AFRICAN LAKE
IIAVRB, Franco, Feb. 14, A dlsputch received from the Belgian forces
operating on Lake Tanganyika, Africa, says tho German gunboat Hedwlg von
WUsmann has been sunk In a naval combat off Berievllle, Two of the German
crew wero killed and tho remainder taken prisoners.
GERMAN AEROPLANE FLIES OVER DANISH CAPITAL
LONDON, Feb. 14. A Router dispatch says a German aeroplane appeared
over Copenhagen Saturday afternoon and, flying ut a height of 8000 feet, en
circled the city twice before It disappeared over tho harbor and navy yard- Tha
Danish Government has Instructed Its Minister at Berlin to protest to the Ger
man Government.
KAISER MAY FORM ARMY OF 900,000 POLES
LONDON, Feb. 14. A dispatch to tho Post from Us Berne correspondent
states that Germany is making strenuous efforts to Induce the Poles to agree to
accept autonomy under the suzerainty of Germany, In that event, Germany
will form an additional army of 900,000 Poles. The dispatch adds that Polish
leaders in Switzerland believe it Is imperative for the Entente Allies to guarentM
Polish autonomy, which was promised by tho Russian Emperor, In order to
prevent the Poles from accepting tho German proposal.
RUSSIAN RAIDERS SINK EIGHT TURK SHIPS
PETUOaRAD. Feb, H. Raids by Russian warships along the Turklfri jpa
continue with satisfactory results. The latest official bulletin says: uO tb
Black Sea Friday our destroyers demolished by their shell fire bridge in ttm
cost seglOH adA sank sight sailing ships."
nr nTnT Tfirr nr TTm riYYTW
UP liiNULtlDtl 1'LiUUl, DUPUV
week nfler .striking. The discharge today
Committee c.iuscd some of tho operatives
i
niiwWHiiftjijWjfffH
