AS first announced January ), 1916, The Herald
guarantees full money's worth to the purchasers
of articles advertised in the display columns of this
paper by any Washington merchant.
(.Cirettetr Fmrttithtd Ufom Requett).
THE
/_
? 'P ?
Dailv and Sunday
HERALD
30
Cent* a
Month
"
DELIVERED TO YOUR HOME.
NO. 3407.
WEATHER?SNOW; MILDER TUESDAY.
WASHINGTON. D. C. MONDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1916.
ONE CENT.
10,000 TROOPS
GUARO PORTALS
INTO DOMINION
Canadians Mass Men and
Guns to Prevent Attack
from U. S.
!
MACHINE GUNS IN PLACE
Bridges Are Raked by Rapid
Firers and All Traffic Is
Closely Scrutinized.
SECRET SERVICE MEN PROBING
Plot Hatched in Buffalo to Throw
.Au*tria-German Army Across
Line. Is Rumor.
Buffalo. N- Y. Feb. 13.- -Th? whol*
C*nadian frontier waa bristling with
armed men today After the Toronto
detachment!! mere moved forward yes
terday th? militia department today
befin veiling its movement?. It is
known. how-ever. that th? entire
Fighty-fourth Battalion arrived from
Brantford during the night and is now
quartered at Brtdgeburg, Fort Erie.
and Nil zara Fall?, Ontario.
There ar? now more than 10,000 wten
either guarding the border near hare
or held in reaerv? to he aent to the
????ne If needed.
Whatever Americans may think
about it. the Canadian? ar? fully con
vinced that a plot ?xlsts to begin the
invasion of Canada. It Is averted
hy the Canadians that there are 10.000
Orman? and Austrians under arms in
Buffalo and that an attack may b**
expected on the Canadian border towns
at any moment.
Serret hervice a cent.** arrtvefl her?
from Washington to Investigate the
complainte made by th? Dominion au
thorities.
At Niagara Falla score.-: of machine
gun? are trained on the International
bridge? and hundreds of ?oldiers are ? '
guarding the power house? ???? hydro- ?
plants. ? ;
At Bridgeburg, juat across the river ?
from Buffalo, an entire battalion Is
on duty guarding the bridge und tn?
munition pi* ut.- Additional troops
and fifteen machine guns were dis
patched to the border from St. Cath- ;
arines, Thorld and Toronto. ? Guards .
at the power hou?e*. munition plant?,
railroad yard.? and bridgea were
donbled.
Thi precautionary meatmre? spread j
to the Canadian press bureau, which j
ha? become very active. [l
Reports were re?-etved here today tluit ?
: ."?? ''anadian troops bivouacked at the ?
exposition grond* in Toronto have re
celved order? to 1?? ready to leave at a
moment* ? noti???. SuftU-ic-nt trains are
?No ?n rcadlnesa to take them to th?
border. Tt is only a two hours' trip. The
remainder o? tiie garrison at i?t.
Catharine*. ;>n hovtr'a rid? from the bor
ri' ? i- reidy t*> move i.rimcdiately.
Grahame-White
Badly Wounded
Noted British Aviator's Inju
ries Serious, Paris Dis
patch States.
Srw.al Cab?*? to The Wa?*inet?.n H-wald.
Taris. Feb. Il?Claude Gr?bame-While,
ihe not?ed British aviator who recently
: arrived a commission as lieutenant, has
b?*?n seriously wounded.
l'laude Grahame-White early In the
war ?rved in the British flying corps.
lie later retired from the service. Sev
eral months ago It was reported he had
been arrested as a spy, together with
a woman, and had been i.icked up In the
tower of London.
This was followed by a report that he
had bee? shot. White's appearance pu*
an end to theae rumors.
Before tho war he waa one of the most
noted aviators In the world, and was al
most aa well known in America aa In
Kngland He married Miss Dorothy
Caldwell Taylor, of New York, ln 191t
Within the last month hia wife flled ?uit
for restitution of her conjugal rights,
the usual preliminary to an action for
divorce tn the British court?.
Gennan Gunboat Sunk.
ITavre. Feb. u.?A Belgian officiai re
port ?sued tonight statea that the Ger
man gunboat Hedwig von Wlsemann haa
b?aen sunk tn I.ake Tanganyika. Two
offlt em and nin?*t<*. p saJlors were made
prl?oners. The Belgian and Brltlah
flotillas engaged suffered no loss.
Trenches Are Shelled.
Berlin (wlreleas via Sayville), Feb. li?
German artillery heavily shelled the
enemy poaitiona between the Oise and
Rheima. The succeaa of thia bombard
ment haa .been verlrt?ed by our patrols.
Roumanian Frontier Closed.
P.onae. Feb. 11?The Austro-Floumanian
f'on?ier haa been closed Railwa> traf
?""- -?Itti Roumanla hai been suspense?*.
Kaiser Refers Rouman?a
To Fate of Belgium
Spprial G??? te Tha "Tubiamo. UrnJri.
London, Feb. 13.?A Daily
News dispatch from Milan quotes
a Bucharest paper as stating
that the Kaiser, in reply to a
question by King Ferdinand on
the subject of Roumanie, said:
"If Roumanie does not appre
ciate the fate of Belgium, be
cause that country is far away,
I hope that she is not blind to
the spectacle of Serbia on her
own front.
"But if this fails to awaken
her from her dreams, we Ger
mans, Austrians. Bulgaria, and
Turks have enough troops lo
throw across the Danube?and
Bucharest is only thirty-seven
miles from the Danube."
CRUISER LOST
FRENCH FEAR;
375 ON BOARD
Ministry of Marine Announces
Uneasiness for Safety of
the Amiral Charner.
TORPEDOED IS BELIEF
Was CruisingOff Syrian Coast
on February 8, When
Last Heard From.
ipec-Ul Cairi* ti Tht Wi*hio?tee BtnJd.
London, Feb. 13.?The French mfnis
:ry of marine expresse?, the Tear that
lie Uff ht cruiser Amiral Charner, of
1,750 tonn, and with 375 officer? and
nen aboard, hae been torpedoed in the
kfcdfterranean.
A dispatch from th* Prntim T#mp?
?aye tbe entire crew apparently hat
?een loat.
The sinking of the two British
?tramers, the Sprlngwell and the
'edarwood. gives further evidence of
ierman submarine activity.
A number of Herman raiders are re
ported to have mad?? a dash from Zee
'Tiigffe into tht* North Sea.
<l fit furia I **tntemrnt.
The following official statement was
received from Paris tonight:
'The ministry of marine is uneasy over
he lack of news of the 4,0fi0-ton endear
Unirai Charner, which wan cruising on
he S> rian coast, and has not been heard
rom since February *. on which date
.timan ulegrams mentioned the sinking
? G a French warship by a German sub
narine."
The Amiral Charner wa.?? laid down
in 1S83 and completed in 1893. She
had two turrets, each armed with a
7.6-Inch gun, besides six 5.5-lnch, four
i?-pounders. four 3-pounders and six
I-pounders. She carried five torpedo
tubes. Her speed was 19 knots. She
measured 374 feet on her water line
and 5 foot beam.
The news of the sinking of the Well
liner Sprlngwell, a 5,600-ton vessel,
came in a Renter dispatch from Malta,
which says she was torpedoed and
sunk without warning in the Medi
terranean, while on her way to India.
Her crew of 73 men was picked up
ind landed safely at Malta.
The scene of the Cedarwood's dis
aster is not given, but the announce
ment of her losa adds that only two
of her crew were saved. Her tonnage
was 650 gross.
FORDS NEW PLACE MOVE.
Declare, He Will upend Mllllnn* ?o
Prr .-?Mit War.
Detroit. Feb. 13.?Henry Ford has under
preparation a nation-wide campaign
? gainst war and preparedness for war In
which it is reported he la contemplating
he expenditure of millions of dollars. Tho
campaign will be waged through news
>aper .and magazine advertising columns.
The principal target for attack will be
the program for huge naval and military
?xpendltures in bills now before Congress.
Announcement of the plan was made to
night. All the people of th? country will
L>e reached by the propaganda, in the
opinion of Mr. Ford.
Weather Retards Fighting.
Berlin (wireless via Sayville>, Feh. 13.?
On the front between La basse e Canal
and Arras and to th? south of the
Somme there has been little activity
owing to severe weather conditions. In
the engagements fought to the northwest
and west of Vimy up to February 9. the j
(Germans had made nine officers and 6C
men prisoners and had captured twenty
five machine guns and two mine
throwers, besides a quantity of stores.
Aerial Activity Reported.
t-ondon. Feb. 13.? Headquarters report:
l>urinf the night ?e spr-pn* a mtne west
of Hulluch and o-cupird the tip of ihe
rat*"r. There were no casualties. There
was ??wnside.eb.e aerial activity by both
side* arouarf \ pre* J
'BEWABE ARMED
VESSELS' TO BE
U. S. WARNING
President Wilson Will Follow
German Suggestion, Says
Authoritative Report.
TO MAKE ANNOUNCEMENT
State Department Will Advise
Americans Not to Sail on
Ships Carrying Guns.
BRITISH PROTEST INEVITABLE
Diplomatic Controversy, Troublesome
and Embarrassing to Administration,
Is Expected by Close Observers.
Tlie l'nited .States w ill adopt the
suggestion of the German government
and warn Americans not to take pas
sage on armed merchantmen.
I>cilnlte information that thin Ia the
Intention of President Wilson and that
an announcement to this effect will
shortly be made by the State Depart
ment, waa forthcoming last night from
an authoritative source.
in diplomatic circle? discussion yes
terday entered on the probability of
the {'resident taking this course, and
Its inevitable consequences. Even th?
most conservative opinion holds that
the resultant situation will Involve
this country in a controversy with
Great Britain which may easily prove
to be the most troublenome and em
barrassing of any the United States
has yet had to face.
May Lose Trade.
.No one conversant with the facts In
the tase so far as to forecast anything
more serioua growing out of the con
troversy than a losa of foreign trade. I
But that the United States must ex- |
peet to euffer seriously in this respect, j
If the German contention as to armed
merchantment is upheld by this gov- |
ment, is considered Inevitable by best !
r.t'or - stateajnen.
If the United .States prohibits the '
clearance from Its ports at arme??
merchantmen th* allies may be counted
upon to reply hy discontinuing the en
trance into American ports of all kinds
of their merchantmen. Denied the use
of allied merchantmen, which now
carry almost all the foreign trade of
the United States, the seriousness of
the loss may be easily calculated.
<?? rin?n? \re ( onflilini.
German diplomats arc confident that the
l'nited States will support tho view that
armed BH rchantmen ?re in effect war
ships, insofar as their ability to act on
the offensive with submarines is con
em*>d. They declara that recognition by
the United ?States uf the justice of their
contention wtl! remove the last cause for
controversy between the two countries.
The report that Great Britain will count
aa a violation of neutrality any change
of regulations hy the United States Is
discredited by this official who points
out that such a cha rig*1 would not affect
adversely any of the elites.
Turks Land Blow
In Mesopotamia
Ottoman War Office Reports
Defeat of British Relief
Expedition.
Special ?.'??" to Thr Waahinilna HpraM.
London. Feb. 13?The Turks have in
ilieted a serious def-eet on a British re
lief expedition in Mesopotamia, accordine
to a statement Issued thle evening by the.
Turkish war office.
The flght took place near Korna, ?hich
is on the Tigris, something over 100 miles
above the Persian Gulf and about the
?same distance down the river from Gen.
Towmihend's beleaguered forces ln Kut
el-Amara.
The last official announcement of the
relief force of Gen. Aylmer placed lt at
about twenty-two miles below Kut-el
Amara.
The British .amp near Korna was at
tacked on Monday morning, tho Turkish
rerport ?ays. und the fighting lasted until
nightfall. So overwhelming wag the
Tuikish attack on "the hostile camp"
that the British "were compelled to flee
In a southerly direction, abandoning nu
merous dead."
Pinchot in Hospital.
New Tork. Feb. IX?Olfford I'lnchot,
former Chief J""or?ester of the l'nited
States, and ome the Progressive candi
date for Senator from Pennsylvania, is
In the Presbiti rlan Hospital, where he Is
recovering from an operation performed
on Thursday. Tonight he was reported
to be resting easily.
Sugar Strike Ended.
New Totk, Feb. 13.?Tlie Sute board of
arbitration has brought ab ut ? settle
ment whereby the 4..?00 striking employes
of the American Sugar finlnlng Com
pany. vVilllamsburg. w-ill return to work
tomorrow. Substantial concessions were
mad? b> lire tugar company.
Death of Girl in Woods
At Lake Forest Parallel
To Avis Linnell Tragedy
Young University of Wisconsin Student Placed in Much the
Same Position as Rev. Clarence V. T. Richeson, if
the Charge of Murder Against Him Is Sustained.
Both Men Violated Confidence of Sweethearts.
??!?<?. Iil to Thr ?aalrlnai.ar, Il .ria'li
Chicago, FA. 13.?The case which the authorities have worked up against
William II. Orpet, held for the murder of Marie Frances Lambert, tlie 18-}ear
old Lake Forest High School girl, is a striking parallel to the evidence that sent
the Rev. Clarence V. T. Richeson, of Boston, to death in the electric chair for
the murder of Avis Linnell, a pretty young choir singer.
Orpet is younger than Richeson and is not in clerical orders. Miss Lambert
was younger than Avis Linnell and lived at home instead of away from her
parents in a big city. But, otherwise, if Orpet is guilty as charged, the two cases
afford probably the closest and strangest parallel in the history of crime
I M?,- Of it I'll 'an ? .
The case ot thr Rev. Clarence V.
Rlcheeon and Avis Linnell:
*| ialine Orprt'a Ciar.
The case of William H. Orpet. t'niver
afllty student, and Marian France? ?*???
Richeeon waja a young clergyman, re-lbert;
cently admitted to order... when he tirati Marian Frances Lambert was nrared
met \vis T.innell, the pra-tty young choir; in Lake Forest, a village of millionaires.
singer. In a small village in Massachu
setts. Miss Linnell's whole life had
heen associated with tha churrh, from
Ihe Infant's elass tn Sunday school
Her father was a gardener on one of the
large estates. From chlldhooal she was
devoted to the church, going through the
Sunday School from the infant class.
mSTINI'ED ON PAGF. TW?. i OONTINIIBD OX G?G.? TWO.
Allies to Tighten Blockade
In Final Show of Strength
More Convincing Show of Sea Power Urged by .Lord Syd
enham to Impress Neutrals with Supremacy.
To Risk Munitions Embargo.
By .JOHN I,. R -, ? lit .us, ? o\
(O-t-ynflit iJX, bv ilcftutc Newa-paper Syndic*.;.? r
London, Feb. 5.?Under the threat of a
stiff note from the t'nited State?, de
manding that the British navy relax ita
strangle hold on trade between the unit
ed States and neutral countries border
ing Germany. Knglish statesmen are lying
low ?ind hiring "^ttle. --xeepting und*r
their breath. Tftere rau be '?fin doubt
that no Important concessions will I**
made by Britain to America, even In
view of the possibility of an Am-rl-an
embargo, bit every elTort will be made
by soft words to prevent wrath rising
in the l'nited States.
Th^ uniTersal belief here that if the
GERMAN MOVE
HELD MURDER
Former Minister of France
Calls Latest Avowal Admis
sion of Assassination.
NO CHANGE IN POLICY
AT ALL, HIS DECLARATION
"May Confidently Expect an Increased
Slaughter of Innocent Noncom
liatants," His View.
By STEPHKN G?????.
fmmfmtott Foreiim Minittrr of Franc?.
Sprri?! OlM to TTi? WmWb^ob Herald.
1'aris, Fob. 13.?It in useless to discuss
Germany's latest avowal of infernal
brigandage. Tier warning to torpedo
armed merchant vessels on sight Is a -most
cold -blooded admission of premeditated
assassination In all its shame nnd horror.
Ag a matter of fact. Germany's new
.policy really changes nothing. It is only
a registration before the world tribunal of
additional infamy, for in the past Ger
many's submarines have carried on their
murderous work regardless of whether
their victims bore cannon or not. Ger
many's latest submarine memorandum
simply shows how firmly she is wedded to
the determination to carry her crimes to
the limit of human possibility.
It should not be forgotten that so far
the entire submarine campaign instituted
last year has resulted in the killing of
thousands of civilians, among whom wer*1
hundreds of women and children, but
strategically has end'-d ln nothing.
It Is possible, even probable, that Ger
many h.is new ajid more powerful type?
of undersea boats with which to initiate
her new policy. We may confidently ex
pect an Increased slaughter of innocent
noncombatants in the future, but where
is the neutral person endowed with com
mon sense who would believe for a single
instant that Germany can thus destroy
Kngland's sea power and render naviga
tion impossible?
German Troops Massing.
I'uchaiest. F, b. ?::. H is learned on
excellent authority that 25.000 German
troops have arrived at Rustichuek, prob
ably to proceed to Turkey. At Shu mia
NUMI German troops are stated to be as
sembled. The influx of German troops
Into Turkey continues steadily.
She Denies Her Husband.
San Bernardino. Cal.. Feb. 1.1.?Seeking
a warrant for the arrest of P. C. Means,
Mrs. I a von Means entered the city hall
and declared she did not know the man
"ho insisted he waa her husband.
attitude of Washington hardens it will
be due to a bargain between the admin
istration and Count Bernstorff, does not
tend to lessen the distinct bitterness that
has crept Into the tone of men who have
hitherto expreaacd confidence that pre
vious A meri car protests to l^ondon were
not tntendud-tn be taken seriously.
Loro? Sydeijham, who is not a. jnember
of the present government but whose
writings on na ? I matters make him a
sea-power authority second only to Ad
miral Mahan, consented to express hia
views for publication, and h*? is firmly
of the opinion that not only ought no
concessions be made to America, but
fO?TTNfKP ON PAtito THR>3C.
?SHIP?PINGH1IT \
BY BIG STORM
Warnings Displayed All Along
Coast?Heavy Snow De
lays Many Vessels.
LINER KROONLAND FORCED
TO STAY OFF NEW YORK
British Steamer Dunciutha Reaches
Quarantine After Battling Eight
Days with Howling Gale.
?Speri*) to The \\i*i:gi(v. Herald.
New York, Feb. 13.?Shipping was
greatly disorganized today as a result
of th*? storm. The liner Kroonland
was forced to remain outside the har
bor, owing to the blinding mow. She
probably will dock tomorrow
Northwest storm warnings were
hoisted along the coast tonight.
The San Giovanni, from Naples, man
aged to make her dock, but only after
her commander hatl been on the bridge
for thirty-six hours, battling with the
storm.
The British steamer Dunciutha
reached Quarantine after one of the
most tempestuous voyages on record, ?
Thia vessel nailed from Manchester on
January 17 Capt. Jones said that im
mediately the ship reached the Irish ,
bea she ran into heavy weather.
"For the first eight days," he sairt,
"we were constantly in a howling gale
This was accompanied by tremendoua
seas. During this time we only cov- j
ered tOO miles, an average of 50 miles
A day.
"On January 19, while we were off
I the Irish coast, the foremast was struck !
I by lightning. The foretopmaat came
I shattering down to the deck. We
? thought at flrst we had struck a mine." !
Sixteen ships managed to creep into
Quarantine this morning, but they had
| mostly arrived off Sandy Hook during
I the night. After that the blinding
j snowstorm prevented others from com
ing up.
In the inner harbor the ferries were
forced to alter their schedules, and
run less frequently than usual.
FIFTEEN KILLED G5 AIR RAIDS. !
Rome Reports Women nnd < hlldren
Slain h y ? u strino m.
Rome, Feb. 13.?It is semi-offlcially [
announced that Austrian aeroplanes
j on Saturday dropped bombs on Con
di goro. Bote I i she and Ravenna.
Kir teen persons were killed and a
number wounded, including many
women and children. j
480 Grains of Arsenic
In Banqueters1 Soup
8i~-i.il tu Tin? Waatiinil???. ?,??'?
Ch'cago. Feb. 13.?Four hun
dred and eighty grains of arsenic
were in the soup with which,
the police believe, Jean Crones
tried to poison the guests at the I
banquet given at the University
Club to 300 prominent Chi
cagoans in honor of Archbishop
George W. Mundelein.
Dr. Frederick Tonney. direc
tor of the city laboratory, com
ple'ed his analysis of thi soup
this afternoon and found that it
contained one-half gmn to each
three ounces of soup.
The portion r-erved each guest
at the banquet was between
three and four ounce?, so that
each one who finished his soup
took between one-half and one
grain of arsenic.
RACY REVUES
SHOCKED HER
iMrs. Matthew Donovan Sues
Husband, Thirty-nine Years
Older, for Divorce.
TOOK HER TO DIVES ON
HONEYMOON, SHE SAYS
Wife Tells Court of Night Life in
Paris, and Declares Husband
Was Insanely Jealous.
Sreru.1 t? The Wutitntfon Her?M.
New York. Feb. lt.?Mra Kitty An
derson Donovan, 23 year? old, the
handsome wife of Matthew Donovan,
6? yearn old. a wealthy furniture
dealer. No. 70 Market street, Paterson.
N. J., who is peeking a divorce from
her husband on the ground of con
htruetive desertion, told a etory of
marital isco-d when Jun* wed* De
cember. Mer rae? wae called for hear
ing before Special Master in Chancery ?
ClfKord I. Newman In Patereon.
Arrayed In a fashionable gown, Mrs
Ihmovan reviewed her troubles with
her husband, .ind she related circum
stantially a series of alleged mistreat
ment on her husband's part, which
dated almost from ih* date of their
marriage in St. Patrick*? Cathedral, in '
thl* city, on January 21. IMS, until
she left him finally fn months liter.
She said that on their honeymoon tour
in Pari.?* he compelled her to accom
pany him to dives, where she witnessed
performances which "shocked her
modesty."
"Mr. Donovan was more of a ?guards
man than a husband to me." said Mrs.
Donovan In responso to questions by her '
attorney. "He was terribly jo-alous of mo'
.ind showed it on every or rasi?n. Before'
we went to Kurope he grasped me by ?
the throat and told mc he would not
permit me to sn*>sk to any man "
"When we were in Seville, Spain, he
tot angry at mc for nothing at all. and
best me with his fists. He then left mo!
and went to the American consul and
made all sorts of accusations against mc.
When ? heard of this, I told tbe consul !
the truth, and he advised me to return;
home with my husband, which I agreed !
to do."
"The trouble passed over, and then we'
went to Par?a. Mr. Donovm gave me a]
course of study in low life there and dur
ing our stay in that city he obliged moi
to accompany him t*n various dives where'
shocking scenes were enacted."
The witness was questioned at length
regarding certain of the scenes which !
she say*? she observed and then she told j
of the voyage across the Atlantic. She
declared Mr. Donovan became enraged
because she dined tn the saloon with a
iKisscnger, after he had previously given
his consent, and locked her up in her
stateroom.
ITALY NAMES ENVOYS.
chief of (nmd -i?it one of Tkur
?ml te Paria.
Home. Feb. 13.?Announcement was
made today that Sig. Tlttonl, Italian
ambassador at Paris, and Gen. Porro,
?.bief of the Italian penerai staff, will
represent Italy at the coming war'
council in Paris. *fhe council wa? ar
ranged by Premi?.- Rrland, of France.
for the better co-ordination of the ef
forts of the allies.
Another fruit of Premier BrlandH?
visit to Home was the announcement
today that the Italian government haa
authorized the emigration to France
of 2,000 skilled workmen, who are to
be employed In the French munitio?
plants.
Escaped Prisoner Apologizes.
New York, Fel?. 13.?Thirfeen months
ago Jacob Rockwlti. who had been ar
rested on a trivial charge, escaped from
police headquarters, Bayonne, "V. J. He
hi?.8 since married, and of late his con
science bothered Irin*, so much that yes
terday he suiTcn?icit*(l himself and apolo
rUed for the trouble he caused. Recorder
William J. Cain said llockwlti had done
a manly act In giving himself up and told
aiim to go home to his bride, j
GERMANS SMASH WAY
THROUGH ALLIES' LINES
IN GIGANTIC ASSAULT
Battle Extends From Flanders to Champagne,
and at Five Points Teutons Break Through.
Only Hold Two Captured Positions.
VICIOUS FIGHTING IN ARTOIS
Hill 140 Center for Bitter Assaults by the Kaiser's Troops,
Who Are Driven Back by Counter Moves by
French?Artillery Worked Hard.
".(."???! < alala- te Tka ??.lala?!?. Narrala*.
London, Feb. 13.?The Germani, attacking along th? whole lin? f'on?
Flanders to Champagne, have penetrated the allies' line? at five Afferent
points, according to official reports received tonight. At three points the
attackers were again expelled, but at one point in Flanders and at another
in Champagne they have maintained their gains.
All reports indicate terrific and repeated attacks, with the Germans
mainly on the offensive in the infantry actions.
The most vicious fighting occurred around Hill 140, in Artois Vf ?-?
of this height the Germans today launched fit e desperate attacks
The final assault carried the Germans through the French first line de
fenses. The French immediately launched a counter-attack which drove the
Germans out with heavy losses in dead and wounded.
SHOOTS GIRL;
SLAYS SELF
S e ? e ? t e e n-Y e a r-Old Boy
Moved to Tragedy by
Anonymous Letters.
WAS TOLD HIS SWEETHEART
WAS "MAKING FOOL OF HIM
Fires Bullet Into Girl'? Temple, Clasps
Her in Arms and .Shoots
Hinnself in Brain
Si*(itl it* T\\e Wteam\t&tm Her?ld.
Hanover, .Pa.. Feb. 13.?Anonymous
letters declaring thr etri he loved wi?
"making a fool" of him, \eA 17-veai
old Karl Miller to shoot his lt-rear-aM
sweetheart and himself last nlrht. He
is deed and the frfrl. Edna Hoffman, is
dying.
Although consclou* at Intervals, she
lias refus^J to make any statement
The story of their unhappy love Affair
hav been pieced together from farts
kmtSTj to members of the two families.
Before poms to visit Mies Hoffman
last nlirht. Miller told his alster he had
received an unsigned letter, presumably
from a girl, and he Mid he waa ' (jo
in? to find out" about statements con
tained therein. Among them were dec
larations that "tbe girl Is making a
fool of yon" and "her mother is op
posed te th*- match "
Two -h..?. Heard.
The couple spent the evening to
gether, apparentlv happy. Miss Hoff
man's father heard her pla> ing tha
plano and Miller sinking as he diopj-oU
off to sleep Sometime later two shot.?
awakened him.
He had to break through a locked
door to enter the parlor, un the flooi
lay his daughter, lo. ke-1 In Miller a
arnie. The boy had fired the flrst shot
with the revolver at the girl's l? niple.
Then he had discharged ? bullet Into
his train Uiro'.igh the mouth. It had
come out back of lila right ear anci
sodo through an oil painting.
Mlaa Hoffm.in was hurried to the
"West Side Snnitorlum, in New Tork.
where she stoutly refused to say any
thing about incidents whim led up to
the double-nhoottng.
It Is belles" d by some that she and
Miller, after talking thlnga over, de
cided to die together.
ONE WAY TO "COOL OFF."
Nodr Mian round I.alata * aa Shallow
? G.??.
Baltimora??. Feb. 13?A mane cloth?*,
which were found near the railroad
track at Eastern avenue and Thirty
eighth street, thi? morning, gave Pa
trolmen Schaefer and W?chter what
they thought would be a real myatery
to eolTe.
The patrolmen were out to Inveiti
gate an accident, when they discov
ered 'be clothe*, including undergar
ments. Passing through the waoode a
erh?rt distance away they saw a nude
rnan lying In a stream beside the
road. Apparently he had gone ln
swimming, but the water waa rather
?hallow The diagnosis of the phy
sicians was that the man was drunk.
Forty British Captured.
Berlin (wireless via JjayvlUei. Feb. la ?
Official In Flanders, after lively artillery
Actions, our patroli? and recoanoitering
detachments penetrated the enemy posi
tion?. Several mines were su c-cea? felly
?Exploded to the southeast of Poperinghe
and forty English were made prisoners.
Inglish Bombard Lille
Berlin ilW<a> via 8ayvUlel. Feb. li?
On Friday and Saturday the F.nillsh
artillero' bomb?tdeai I.Hi ? susini
materie! damage, but no loss** or mili
ta r j damage
???? i mm m tmr *. am. l.
Five successive counter-attacks also
?ere made by the Germane late yeeter
day afternoon and laat nicht iti aa
effort to retrieve the trenches loot to
the French northeaet of Batte do Mes
nil, in Champagne AM wen repulsed.
according to the Parla report. The
Berlin statement on fleh ting In thl?
eectar says that the Germans stormo?
th* French front over To? yards aouth
of St Marie-a-Py. capturing more thaa
?0O officers and men.
Fighting around Vlmy op to laat
Wednesday netted nearly ?*? prtoon
ers to the German*, beeide* ?5 mack^h*-'
guna and other material, accorala? to
the Berlin statement
The midnight ?Acial from Part?
"In Artois the day was marked by^
a aeries of ?fermar attack? from Hill lee
to the road fr-nm Neut?lie to Da Foil?.
The flrst attack was made tn tb? morn
ing to the erost of Hill 14?, witboat
success. Daring the afternoon, aft?'
violently bombarding our posit i one, tbe
German? made four different attack?
? gainst our front. Three of thoae wore
stopped short by our barrase and In
fantry lire.
? ? 'tmmm. | .. ,.*??. r
'During th? fourth attack the Ger
mans penetrated our first trenches t?
the west of HU. 14?. W? dislodged
I them by an immediate counter-attack,
causing them appreciable losses la
i dead and wounded
"A German aeroplane, m hieb waa
bombarded by our batterle?, foti In
flsmes to th??* eant of Glvenchj
.South of Krft?*. a Gorman hand gt-M?e*
attack sgaln?t nur defenses fallad.
"East of tbe OmMA ma boml?rd*d tbe
German organi ?cat loo? In front of
Kontenoy.
"Between Kolsson* and Rhetms tb?
German aitillory ?a? particularly acttv?
In th?? sector* of Sol-non*. ihaae^in^ ???
Pompei te. in.r barrag*- flre brok*> up
tii- fofantr) movement ?hile It ?as et.il
in pn-pnrsti??n
"In Champagne. during an uaim?
portant a* tlon between the Navartn and
Salut -Souplet road?, m* .ade ? frw
prisoners. Kast of the road fmm Tenure
to Swmn**-P> the Orman? gaiu-rd ? fool
bold t? some of our odv?rr6 trencbea
"In tht Argonne our battere? directed
? d"srt urtare flre against tbe German oi
ganiaations to the north of Four de
Paris
In northern A leare our artillery Ae?
prexentod a German attack te tbe eaat
o? Seppoia."
University Men
Battle Flames
Cornell Students Rescue Ra
dium and Books Uhen
Morse Hall Burns.
?Siaonal t.? Tba ? aa.ineli?? Herat
Ithaca, ?. Y . FVb II.?Mora? HaU. tbe
home of the chemical ?apartment ef
?"orneil I*nlver?lly, ?a? practica..? wipe?
out bv flrr ?early thia moraine The toe?
exceed? I300.fl0i Reaeirch work on which
, lentleu? havr been labor?o? for years
waa deatroyed
Iaad<eguate water prrwuri handicapped
the fireman J. C. Aahmaad ?tar g-uar4
on the baaket-ball t-earn, ?t*4 eUht
klloeram* of radium value* at tLWA
Three hundre?! eludenti formed a aarvm-?
1 line and ma ? a* ed to aava <V?M ?-oJuaaea
from the Ubrarv ait all th? offlce f*
eorA?.
Junior weak rirla In eoaaaty attira, and
1 co-ed? ?erved hot cofTee an
? to the tired and half-fiaaaa fir
1 Kudrnta The loaa waa partly rovere?
1 bv Inaurane?.
Hrars Hniband Ihtti ia War
Haceratown. M4.. Fab. II. -Mr* Me li.
RocheiT. of thia rtis . I? awaiiin? emeial
? conf?n?*??tlon of the report at Die deal ?
of her huaband Paul ftulhaaj lai ?
?ni battle t? G? ance
