M at
ASHL"
WW TT'V tr Tw t ya -
Ashland Grows While Llthla Flows"
City of Sunshine and flowers!.
Ashland, Oregon, LJlhia Springs
"The Carlsbad of America"
I i
VOL. XL
ASHLAND. OREGON, MONDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1916
NUMBER 76
Club Industries
Committee Active
Lincoln Banquet
Grand Success
Ben Sheldon
For Legislature
Some of our friends are boosting
Ren Sheldon for the legislature.
They point out the fact that Sheldon
has many friends all over the county
Synchronization
Of System Made
The synchronization troubles of
the city are now ended and the mu
nicipal and California-Oregon sys
tems are working successfully In par
allel. The work was completed Sat
urday after a crew of men had rushed the committee at last Monday even
through the placing of the new line I lug's meeting, prefacing his remarks
from the municipal plant. To Chair- j with the statement that he had
man Lamb of the electrical commit-i learned that this was the first time In
tee of the council and all the mem- six years that the Industries commit-
The Industries committee of the
Commercial Club Is one of the most
active of the standing committees of
the club and Is bound to get results
for Ashland. Mr. Dill reported for
bers of the electrical department
credit Is. due for the expeditious solv
ing of a knotty problem. The follow
ing statement of the electric light
committee covers the solution of the
problem and the saving effected by
the installation of the new'wlre:
"By the addition of.the No. 4 cop
per wire from the municipal plant to
the city sub-station, synchronization
has been successfully effected, there
by lifting considerable load off the
minds of the members of the electric
tee had given evidence of being alive.
Mr. Dill with C. D. Caln,.and 0. F.
Carson, his co-workers on the com
mittee, have g'ven considerable of
tl.nl, tlms In thn nnut mrvnlV, In In.
lilCtl lit . S I'UOL U1UIIIII IU lit'
vestlgatlon of the present Industries
In Ashland and In seeking means of
Increasing those now existing and In
ducing others to locate.
"At present," stated Mr. Dill, "as!
soon as the young men of Ashland
get out of school they are forced to
seek elsewhere for work,-' as, Ashland
light committee, to whom the matter doPg not offer employment for them
was rererred. ;He dwelt upon the exeeienre of the
"The committee, in Installing said j Aghand BChools, which he said he
wire, acted upon the advice of the . ,g confi(ient were equal to the best
California-Oregon Power Company, j n th,g country and superior to any In
which was verified by the Westing-' , ARhinni1-a fiize. He deslenat-
house Electric & Manufacturing Com-jed the young men ag be!ng tne most I
pany, wno are considered autnomy valuabIe product of Ashland and de
on electrical matters. The Califor-! poml the fact that Ash,and had
,nla-Oregon Power Company, through ;noth,ng tQ hol(, them here after
.Its local manager, C. A. Malone, also j gpending Iarge amounts In turning
renaerea mucn va.uao.e service anaiout a type of yQWg man whom he
r , . 1
i if . , - - i
i w r
i ' t !
? I
r ' ' - . ,
' . , ' - 1
f ' ' ' -
," " - " - i
, , f ftp ' 4 , . - - y I 3
assistance in the synchronization of
the two systems, giving the city the
service of the engineer, Mr. W. M.
Sheppard, who is considered the last
word on electrical matters, and whom !
they sent from San Francisco to Ash-'
land to assist in paralleling the two .
believed averaged higher than In any
community of the country.
Mr. Dill stated that the committee
had spent some time Investigating the
railroad situation here and found It
to be the concensus of opinion .that
united effort on the part of Ashland's
Mai j- FUkforil in "The Girl of Ycste riny, : ining Theatre, Matinee nml
Evening, Tuesd ny, February 1 5.
citizens would bring much larger
systems.
nrni 1 1 f i i v
lue ounS .s ine engineer s , here and provde hlghly pald
report on just what the Increase in employment for many sUIiled work-
iue sue ui cupper uieans as a savins
to the city of Ashland:
men.
"Itesistance of 6 miles single wire . . .,h ho11evert rn,H hfi aA.
democracy.
The governor was In a fighting
mood and showed nn ilimnuitl,m t,.
mince matters. He admitted that
monopoly was undesirable, 110 right
thinking man could favor taking
from the people the resources that
belonged to them, but he maintained
the democratic policy took Oregon's
resources from the people and gave
nothing in return, not even a devel-
rort.iniv nf fa- rfiotont HvCi. oirCnrt.. t- opment of those resources for the
....u. r,,-, . ....,., ...... . . . ...1 benefit of
Blair Granite Co. Incoiporated and
. Development Begins at Quaiy
Nearly four hundred republicans,
progressives and old-liners alike
joined in a most harmonious and en
thusiastic banquet at the Medford
noiei last baturday evening. The and ought to run well, but what Is
guest of honor for the evening was more Important, that ho has many
Governor Withyconibe, and big dele- good points which make him an cx
gations from Grants Pass, Ashland celient representative for Jackson
and other valley towns attended. ' county, lie believes thoroughly In
State Trcusurer Kay, State Game the future of southern Oregon and
Warden Carl Shoemaker and several will fight for its interests. Ho has
other notables also attended. ; always been a public-spirited citizen,
From either a culinary or an ora- ''t is not hunting a legislature Job
torlcal standpo'nt nothing was lack-j which is all glory and little pay; tho
Ing to make the affair a rousing sue-1 Job Is hunting tho man. lie is a
cess, and as to the results gained In j forceful man when It conies to get
unitlng and solidifying the grand old ting other people to see things hla
party, the returns at the coming elec-' way. A most important matter to
tion will tell. .this county is the adjustment of our
C. M, Thomas of Talent handled expenditures In highway construc-
tho toastmaster's job in a manner
which brought him many congratula
tions. Declaring tho great need of Ore
gon to be ' development and settle
ment with more prosperous and con
tented people upon the land, Gov
ernor V.'ithycombe fired a -centimeter
shell Into the Ferris bill and
urged tne republicans of the state to
tion with the state highway commis
sion's expenditures for a stato. sys
tem. Mr. Sheldon Is especially con
versant with this problem nn.l our
interests will be well looked after on
that score. We hrd a chanco here at.
Ashland to get pretty well acquainted
with Mr. She'don during tho norma'
school campaign in 1014, and his
zealous work 011 behalf of the South-
co-operate In furthering a policy of rln ul0"011 -Normal scnooi anil 111s la
assisting the west rather than smoth-1 nli,ia,'"-v wilh "lat ''s,le W0"UI "mko
erlnc lift- no lma lio,.n tho ,.ii,. i him an Invaluable man to look after
our Interests in that respect.
Stray Bullet
Hits Gardener
opment or tne scnannen-uiair granite line v. r.i' ii w
quarries near Stelnman, which were springs power
parallel Is equivalent to No. 2 copper
wire'.
"Resistance of 6 mile single wire
No. 2 equals 5.1 ohms.
"300 K. V. A. at 4,000 volts equals
43 amperes.
"(43) 2 equals 1,850. .
"Total R I 2 loss for 2 mile line
No. 6 wire equals 1,850 times 12.9
equals 23.8 K. W.
connect onto the
line at Neil Creek
No. 6 equals 12.9 ohms. I VBntBpo,1Hlv i0rated here and then opened up by the building of a road school house. The Blair company
'No. 4 and No. 6 copper wire ln 1 turned to discussion of the cannery last 'ear- come 88 the rfisll!t of the wl11 lnsta" a 77V2-horsepower motor
proposition, which seems to be the incorporation of the Blair Granite at once.
mnt vital noerf nf thfi rnmmnnltv. , Company of Ashland, which took out! Most of the equipment, including
......... .. . ... ' nppofiaarv nmtpra nr Sntam Wlrlnv riarrtflia linlcta nml n.fMa tin.,n n I
He stated that ne haa lnierviewea tne - - - ., ...... Ua.c '-;and tod . , ,.,, ,
present owner 01 tne oia Asnianu - ? - h ,wi,at nrocrpsa ,., ,... ,,, tho.a
v . . k r Rtnir onH r m ni,Khiv Mr ha nnn ,.n o . w"ut I,r0tres8 nau ueen niaae there
cannery and investigatea it, ana . ' """- "i- "
found that an expenditure of a few ', B,a!r took over Mr- Schannen's Inter, line Is connected and machinery com
bundred dollars would put It In shape esta in the company some time ago. 1 pletf;- Installed. The exact number
for operation. He outlined a tenta- . Tne Quarries In question are lo- of men who will be employed has not
tive project which had been discussed cated about a mile and" a nlf from been learned, but a good-sized pay
or norotino- tb rnnnprv and stated Stelnman and are said to have gran-'roll Is assured.
..rr.,, n T o n ' . 1A . - ., . ,. . . . . .
n , i. ,os iur i. mue "ne(tnat he believed the cannery should . lle 01 exceptional worm, rne roaa ine granite at the Blair quarry
?.o. 2 wire equals 1,850 times 5.1 0perating to provide a market for i which was gurveyed to. the quarry
equals 9.45 K. W. thg frutg wh,ch nQW gQ tQ waste last year took considerable engineer-
"Savlng due to larger copper converting thig loss into a galn even 1nS abily the grade 'a said to be
equals 23.8 minus 9.45 equals 14.35 hroolfInir ,.., pvon nn 0,)PrafinE almost straight up and down In
as the profits would accrue indirectly Places
. i v. . i. - j. , v. On
iu.uubu vu u..4.t l . ..... ... . . . . Can nartV tl Pnnd Al,1.fnhlnn,1
ntn n Tnil- Tpnilllnp' 1'hla ronnvt laiwla iri-ofni-l " --.v..v.
year contract to furnish electrical manitude to the nrobabie extent of
power for the Blair quarries and is ' the development.
K. W., which means that now the city
plant is able to deliver 14.35 K. W.
additional load at the center of dis
tribution. "Total cost of power plant and
transmission line to the city substa
tion equals $66,500.
"300 K. W. capacity or $222 per
K. W.
'Value of the 14.35 K. W. gained
to the city Is therefore 14.35 times
222 equals $3,180. Now to deter
mine the saving to the city of Ash
land. "The average load factor of the
city plant during the year 1915 was
52 per cent. The following la based
on a 50 per cent load factor, which
will be much higher with the present
arrangement.
"There are 720 hours in one
month.
took awards at the Panama exposi
tion and is beautiful stone.
It la understood that the Southern
Pacific is to construct a siding to
j connect with the quarries and furnish !
Joe Sander while working in the
gardens near the greenhouse last
Thursday received a bullet In the
head from some unknown source and
narrowly escaped death. The bullet
ranged through his head, striking
just above the eye, but did not pene
trate the brain. Sander recovered
from the shock, and throwing the
carrots, which he was pulling onto
the wagon, drove to the house. The
wound was streaming blood. A phy
sician was called, who pronounced
hla rnnditlnn nvprnrtnlla TTa was
This is spelndld. What helps Ash-1 pronomiced out of danger Saturday
land helps you, and what helps youand ,B now recovering fast,
helps Ashland. We must all work jt ,B ,Upp0Md that the bullet came
together toward a common end that fron, the g 0f some small boy who
this great state may achieve the was 8hootlng without taking care of
splendid destiny its natural resources the drection 0f his bullets. Game
justity. '
the country at large.
Great enthusiasm reigned during
Governor Withycombe's remarks and
he was frequently Interrupted by ap
plause. Toward the close of his remarks
the governor said: "1 went to Ash-
speech in which he castigated the
On Saturday the California-Oregon a direct outlet without the cost of i de,1,ocrats an(1 eulogized the republl-
A lively discussion of the cannery Power Company entered into a ten- teaming. This report lends greater
proposition followed hla remarka and
Wnrdon ni'tHr-nll h:i irnno nv(r thfi
Colonel Washburn of Table Rock grollml investigating the matter, but
enieriaineu ana aroused the gather
ing with a typical fiery political
! was participated in by several mem
bers of the club who have interested
themselves in the cannery projects.
It was asked why the Bagley cannery
at Talent was inoperative. It was
stated that Mr. Bagley had said that
when he was giving the cannery per
sonal supervision it did not lose
money and that he believed that with
the experience he now had gained the
Governor Drinks
Ashland Litbia
Governor Withyconibe had hla first
drink of lithla and other mineral wa-
tpra nf Achlund In tha now T.lthla
cann&ry could be operated at a profit. park gaturday t the centra, gtaton
Lack of experience was given as the
i A big delegation of republicans from
reason for Its failure. Someone quot-; thfl ,Qwer ya
ea liiouiiiieut I envernnr. StntP Trenonrer
70ft C -A l r -ws
; ' "T V T ' !een operated profitably,
equals 360 hours per month, average; Frohbach stated that
revenue equals zc per K. W. nonr.
"360 times 2 equals $7.20
msnth per K. W." saved.
"14.35 times 7.20 equals $103.32 ;
per month, or $1,239.84 per year, j
"With only 25 per cent load fnetor j
the saving would be $019.92 per year i
or 10 per cent on an Investment of1
$6,192.
"The cost of the additional wire ;
.added was $1,225. installed.
"CITY OF ASHLAND,
"Per Electric Light Committee."
accompanied the
. - - . .... ... . .lmj u . . .
tnat tne .aoor ques ion was iu u. gute Game Warden Car, Snoemaker
drawback to tne raient project, anu
that had the cannery been at either
Ashland' or Medford it could have
while
of Roseburg up from Medford Satur
day. The party were taken up to the
park and walked over the entire new
park. Emory Smith of Smith, Emery
& Co. was luckily at the central sta
tion and entertained the distin
guished guests with explanations of
i the project. Mr. Smith is an old
friend of Governor Withyconibe.
j All of the waters were running in
I fine shape and, according to Mr.
(jov. wmmo.MiiK,
Who Drunk Mthia Saturday.
representing the county at the San
per Francisco exposition he had talked
with several cannery men who were
considering this valley as a future lo
cation, and found them all regarding
the' valley as a suitable location for
tJ..n.tnn rtf tlm enrt TVft Tllpfl 1
from Idaho who had talked with him .Smi,n- the Impromptu reception was, ed the park, were delighted and sur-
on, t,ht-th nreaent Ashland can- !affair "ne weeks ahead of iim- accomplished
nery machinery to be too antiquated.
Mr. Frohbach dwelt enthusiastically j
upon the wonderful opportunity!
i
lajt.ll....,,,,,,, ... ,a ,
flights of oratory.
The first number on the program
was a rendition of Lincoln's Gettys
burg address by Major Andrus, assist
ed by members of the O. A. R. who
sat at the speaker's table as honored
guests.
1 An excellent survey of Abraham
Lincoln's life was given by Rev. J, C.
Rollins of the First Methodist church,
full of humorous Incidents and signif
icant episodes, and Rev, Carnahan of
Ashland, after the crowd had seated
themselves, pronounced an appropri
ate and Impressive Invocation.
The enjoyment of the evening was
greatly increased by a splendid musi
cal program during the banquet,
given by Mrs. Trank Isaacs, Mrs. Bert
Anderson, George Andrews and Mr.
Hunter, with Mrs. George Andrews
ns accompanist.
State Treasurer Kay, Camp War-'
don Carl Shoemaker, Editor Allen of
found no clue to the culprit. That
the shooting was an attempt at mur
der is thought unlikely by the victim
and his friends.
Hotel Plumbing and
Furniture Arrives
The plumbing fixtures, a carload,
for the Hotel Oregon have arrived
and a big crew of men was put at
work this morning. The furniture is
also here and many of tho fixtures.
Manager Dobbins states that the ho
tel owners Intend to rush the work
and will try to complete the remodol
llng within thirty days.
Train Fourteen
Hits Broken Rail
Train No. 14 was ditched Friday
morning at Whitepolnt, a siding on
Grants Pass. Senator Von der Ilellen ule &'K'5'" H"8 'iween HiSKiyou
and loiestin. Hie traiirtooK tne slu
ing for No. 11, and when pulling out
ran onto a broken rail, derailing sev-
as successful as could have been an prised at the things which have been
Governor Wlthy-
The party was taken all over the city , combe was Invited to be the central
and entertained at the Elks Club, j guest of honor at the big dedication
The governor, and in fact all of the celebration next July, and will make and responded to an encore.
and several prominent valley republi
cans spoke.
Greetings from several prominent
officials were read.
R. P. Campbell of Ashland, the
James Wbltconib Riley of Jackson
county, recited nn original poem en
titled "I've Got My Fingers Crossed,"
ernl cars. Tho wrecker was Bent up
from Ashland and everything cleared
up In a few hours. No. 14 got Into
Ashland about 11 o'clock.
$ ASSOCIATION MEETS
TOXIGHT.
which the cider proposition offered
here. He stated that the Bagley
company had sold all their apple juice
4 to the Sulsman-Wormser Company of
' San Francisco, and that the San Fran-
G cisco head of that company had in-
The regular monthly meeting formed him that they had to stop
of the Ashland Business Men's boosting the cider because they did ated. He said
4 Association will be held tonght, .not have near enough to supply the'on merits alone created such a de-
visitors, many of whom had not visit-, every endeavor to attend. Tom Kay,
state treasurer, is an old Ashland
resident who attended scnooi here.
Those in the party besides the
state officials were A. B. Cornell,
Sam Baker, Ceorge Lunberg, Jessie
Johnson and H. L. Gilkey of Grants
Pass, L. Hill, Roy Hill, W. H. Gore.
C. Y. Tengwald, T. V. Hollls ana
sold in immense quantities at the
depot, and an Ashland manufactur
ing concern could take advantage of
the immense publicity which It has
gained and demand which it has cre-
"If the Bagley cider
8 o'clock, at the Commercal S
8 Club. An interesting program
will be rendered and plans for $
the year's work outlined. All S
members of the association are S
urged to be present. : i $
i c n n. lit. . , n
nrdoro wtilih thfiV had already BO- mnnd In Ran FrnelBcn. what r-nnld I oiiiun 01 JueuiorO, COUnty COIIr
w. ' i .. .. ... '
The Emerson Hardwood Company
of Portland will rebuild after an $80
000 fire.
cured. It was Mr. Frohbach'a opinion not the already well-advertised Ash-
that in Ashland there is a wonderful land cider do?"
opportunity In the cider business be
cause of the fact that practically,
every tourist who passes through and
all of the regular passenger traffic
remember Ashland because of the
cider which Powell's cider stand at
The club promised their active co
operation in the committee's work,
and President Smith complimented
the committee members very highly
on their activity ln this Important
phase of the club's work. The com-
the depot has made famous over the mittee wm continue their Jnveatlga
entire Southern Facinc system. ortIon ftnd w, 8eck any, information
twenty-sight years this cider has been j anJ ldeag wnJcn may be offered. r
missioner Leever of Central Point
and Superintendent Steel of Crater
Lake park.
A crab station is being established
at Astoria for shipment of crabs to
various parts of the United States.
The St. Helens Bhlpyard has con
tracts to bull! five vessels, mostly
lumber carriers, bee-'.o ,. .! :,;
E. V. Carter of Ashland spoke and
paid a tribute to the memory of the
late W. I. Vawter and his lifelong
devotion to the city, county, state,
nation and republican party, and
rend a set of resolutions which were
adopted by a rising vote.
Will Steel read a resolution for
the formation of a Lincoln club, that
was adopted, and a committee ap
pointed to nominate officers, with
the following result: C. M. Thomas,
Talent, president; Joe Hurt, Ashland,
vice-president; J. O. Isaacson, Cen
tral Point, vice-president; William
Von der Hellen, Eagle Point, vice-
president; Colonel H. H. Sargent,
Jacksonville, vice-president; ( C.
Boggs, Medford, secretary; Vern
Yawter, Medford, treasurer.
Among the Ashlanders who attend
ed the . banquet were J. G. Hurt,
The board of regents of the Uni
versity of Oregon has voted $40,000
for a new building.
Frank Folz, Charles Cane, Joseph
Poor, George Monroe, Thomas II.
Simpson, Benton Bowers, C. H. Gil
lette, C. P. Christensen, B. W. Tal
cott, D. Perozzl, Louis Dodge, C. A.
Malone, O. F. Billings, II. L. Whited.
Rev. H. A. Carnahan, It. P. Camp
bell, James N. Nlsbet, Fred Wagner,
W. W, Ussher, George Loosley, C. B.
Watson, Amos Nlnlnger, C. B. Lam
kin, J. W. McCoy, Prof. George A.'
Briscoe, H. F. Pohland, Dr. W. E.
Blake, J. M. Wagner, D. H. Jackson,
E. T. Staples, M. J. Duryea, E. V.
Carter, B. R. Greer, C. Prescott, E. D.
Brlggs, L. Kale Shepherd, E. J.
Kaiser. Joe Hurt had charge of the
mobilization and advance of the local ,
delegation.
