MAYSVILLE, KENTUCKY. MONDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 101G.
f KFiKt, v KKrvnr.iCAX-im.
OXK COPY ONE CENT.
A Inck of confidence has been
Mv lmglenr, I must say,
l'or people have but little in
My promises to pay.
Courier-Journal.
Tin: .uiihli:max,m a .mktho kka.
TI'HK AT Till: I'AS.
'1'I.MK TO II AY.
At tlio Pastime today, nftcrnoon nntl
evening, the Popular Plays and Play
ers Company odor the screen's great
est actor, Albert Chevallor, supported
by Jnnc Gail, In America's most be
loved drama, "The Middleman," In
flvo acts of superb action nnd a Metro
production of supreme quality. When
you miss a Metro feature you miss
tho the best In moving pictures. The
Metro pictures nro noted for quality
and class.
srpuKYisoirs hlpout.
' Tho Maysvlllo maiket sold for the
last week 1,705,470 pounds at an av
orago of $11.74. The quality and con
dition of tobacco wns much better than
the previous week. Wo believe grade
for grade It was tho most satisfactory
of any week since tho opening, there
being strong competition on every
thing offered from tho green to the
highest types. Tho market cleaned up
the block nnd sales open Monday na
usual. M. MITCHELL.
NOTICK.
Money to loan on mortgage. Parties
contemplating buying farms and
wanting loans to run for ft term of
years, come and let us bond same for
you. Also parties who desire to sell
Hen notes, come and see us. STATU
TRUST COMPANY, W. W. Hall, Jr..
Secretary. Office, State National Hank.
MASONIC NOTH'i:.
0. 0. BURGOYNE
Hrnlli of This Well-Knoun ('Illicit nl
(he Home of HI Son Sunday
Lu'iiliur.
Mr. Otto I). Hurgoyno, aged 8B, died
Sunday evening at C o'clock at tho
homo of his son, Hohcrt I). Hurgoyno,
on Jersey Itldgo, after n brier Illness
of tho Innrniltlcs incident to old ago.
Mri Hurgoyno was born in this city
on February 4, 1831, nnd has spent his
ontlro llfo hero. In early manhood he
went to work as an apprentice In the
blacksmith department of tho Eagle
Plow Works of this city, and became
one of htccxport workmen of that
Institution, staying thoro until n few
years ago, when ho was compelled to
give up work on account of his weak
ened condition from his nge.
Ills wlfo passed a way sovcrnl years
ago, since which tlmo ho has been
making his homo with his children.
He was one or this city's best-known
and well-liked citizens, a friend to
everyone nnd n moro generous heart
ed old fellow could not ho found, mak
ing him a favorite with all who knew
him.
He Is survived by three children,
one daughter, Mrs. S. H. McChord of
Stockton, Cal., and two sons, Robert
D. of Jersey Hldgo and Frank C. of
this city, and one grandson, Ashby
Hurgoyno.
The funeral will occur from tho res
idence of his son, Frank, on East Sec
ond street, at 2 o'clock Tuesday after
noon. Interment In tho Maysvlllo ceme
tery. HKATII 01' .MILS. KLTTIi: OKAY.
Maysvlllo Lodge No. G2, F. & A. M.,
will meet tonight. It is desired that
all members be present, as business
of importance will be transacted.
Work In tho K. A. degree. Visiting1
brothers arc cordially invited to moot J
with us. jr. M. clakk, w. ai.
P. C. Smoot. Secretary.
Mrs. Rcttle Gray died at her home
In Smoky Hollow Sunday morning at
4:30 o'clock, aged 20 years. Sho was
a member of tht Methodist Church.
She Is survived by her husband nnd
an Infant son ono month old. Fune
ral service will bo held at tho resi
dence on Tuesday afternoon at 2
o'clock with services by Rev. J. K
Heed. Interment In the Mnysville
cemetery.
MAIL OltDLKS PROMPTLY FILLED.
Great bargains listed In Hunt's ad
today.
For nil grades of whiskies nnd
liquors. Our prices aro right. Order
today. Poyntz Hros., Covington, Ky,
Miss Elizabeth Stone, who lias been
on the sick list for the past two weeks,
has so fnr recovered as to be ablo to
go to her school at Wedonla.
in; nriLKS wi:i,l
who builds with our lumber.
For
onco completed, the structure will
need no further care. There will be
no warping or shrinking of boards or
beams to cause work, worry and ex
pense. All our lumber Is thoroughly
seasoned. You'll find that Just ono of
tho many advantages of buying lumbor
here.
Till; MASON LUMKL'K COMPANY.
Corner Limestone and Second Streets.
Phono 519.
M
BASEBALL SURE ' MRS. TERESA GLASCOCK
Director of Ohio Slnio League Mcel
nnd Decide lo Continue .Wny8
illlo tn Continue.
The director of the Ohio Stato
League of Haso Hall Clubs met tn the
Whito Hall Hotel Sunrtay afternoon
and went over many imutors pertain
ing to tho wclfnro of tho league.
Thoso present wore Mr. Joo Carr
of Columbus, Ohio, President of tho
League, Mr. William Gnblcman nnd
Mr. William Yottmnn of Portsmouth,
Air. John Do Arnold of Hnmllton,
Ohio, representing Huntington, W. Va.(
and Messrs. Thomas M. RusbcII and
Claude Watklns of this city. Long
distance messages were had from Lex
ington, Frankfort and Charleston, whe
appointed proxies and Bald they wore
In tho league to stay.
During tho meeting tho question of
reviving tho old llluo Grass League
came up, but no definite action on tho
subject, owing to tho absence of three
ot tho directors.
Tho matter of enlarging the Ohio
Stato League and changing Its name
was also considered nnd was left over
for further consideration until the
next meeting, which will take placo on
March 5, probably at Frankfort.
President Joe Carr stated that the
lcaguo wns In splendid condition and
the outlook for n successful base ball
season wns never better. He said the
Ohio Stato now has u six-club league
assured Maysvlllo, Portsmouth, Lex
ington, Frankfort, Charleston and
Huntington, the lntter being admitted
ns a member at yesterday's meeting
The above clubs aro enough to make
the league a go, but several other
towns are knocking for admission
Chilllcothc, Ashland, ( ntlettsburf;.
Findlay nnd Lancaster. It la quite
probable two ot these tennis will be
admitted, thus mnklng an clght-club
league.
On the Kentucky side of the river
there is n strong sentiment In (favor
of tho old Blue Grass League being
formed with Maysvlllo, Fiankfort, Win
chester, Richmond. Lexington and
Portsmouth composing the circuit.
This line-up appcnls to tho Kentucky
members of the Ohio Stato, but they
nro not going tn stand In the way of
organized base ball this summer.
Outside of the abovi- facts thorcj
wns little business trunsactcd, al
though the meeting las--"d until 10
o'clock, when Messrs. t'arr, Kottmnn;
and Gablomau left for their respective
homes on C. & d. train N'o. 4.
Heath of This Ycnemblc Lady at Hrr
Home Near ML Cnrmcl Sun-
. day Mnriilnif.
STOCKHOLDERS MEET
And Klcct Directors Who Licet Ofli.
eers In the (i'IIimiii ('nriuent
Company.
WASHINGTON'S
BIRTHDAY! j
A day dear to the heart of every
loyal Amerlca . That's one reason the 5
Square Deal Man picked that day to
make some lucky customer a present of S
that jj
MAXWELL TOURING CAR
Complete with all up-to-date im-
provements. A gift like this is not given B
away in Maysville EVERY DAY, and g
we want you to all have a share in the 8
chance for it by coming in NOW, buying
what you need and paying what you owe. B
Don't forget the date February 22. Jj
MIKE BROWN
"THE SQUARE DEAL MAN"
MK
CLAM CHOWDER
Flunan Haddock, Wou'ers, Herrluir, CodlUh, Shrimp, Lobsters Crabs,
fUh Flnkpg, Tuna Fli.Ii, Fat Jfutkml, Ancliorlueg In Oil, Cuiulr, Oysters,
HrdlHU Seasonable right now and the quality line. Send )i your order.
The stockholders ot tho Gibson Gar
ment Company hold a meeting Inst
Friday night In tlio Chamber of Com
merce rooms and elected directors nnd
officers as follows:
Hoard of Directors H. J. Cochran,
A L. Merz, Moses Fischer, J. S. Fis
cher and M. Goidon.
President and Treasurer Moses
Fischer.
Secretary J. S. Fischer.
Tho plant was In operation part ot
last week and employment was given
to eighteen young ladies and from fif
teen to eighteen more will bo put to
work this morning. Tho company now
has many orders which, will keep
them busy for so mo timo.
ItL'MOYAL NOTICE.
we nro now located In our new
quarters In the St. Charles building on
West Front street, entrance either
through tho C. & O. tlckot ofllco or on
tho side, nnd aro ready and In posi
tion to servo our patrons In tho most
satisfactory manner. Estimates cheer
fully furnished. Phono C.
GEORGE H. TRAXEL.
Our prlco this week for buttorfat,
31 cents MnysvUle. firing It In any
day, any tlmo ot tho day, nnd rccclva
your check promptly.
MAYSVILLE MODEL CREAMERY.
Mr. Harry Schoclver of Cincinnati
left for a business trip to Now York
City Sunday aftornoon after n short
visit to friends hero.
Mrs. Thomas M, Russell aud son,
Milton, left Monday for St. Potors
burb, Florida, where they will spend
tho remainder of this wlntor.
Mr, and Mm. Albert X. Huff and
daughter, Miss May Huff, wero guests
Sunday or Mr. aud Mrs. Charles
Traxol of East Second street.
Mr. and Mrs. Godfrey lltmaloker nnd
children returned homo Sunday aftor
noon from amhojt visit with Cincin
nati relatives.
Mr. and Mrs. Homer D. Kills and
sou, William, wero woek-oud visitors
with rolatlves at Augusta.
, ,
For "Noxt-to-Nothlng" prices tiee I
Mrs. Teresa Glascock, aged 55, Iia.il
she lived until the 2!tlt'of this month,
died at tho home of lior son, Mr. Scott
Glascock, near ML Cnrmol, Sunday
morning nt 6 o'clock, nttor an Illness
o' four months.
Mrs. Glascock was born In Herki
mer county, N. Y., and In 1856 was
married to Mr. D. A. Glascock, to
which union nine children wero born,
eight of whom survivo her.
Mrs. Glascock wns ono of tho best
known ladles of her section, having
been connected with tho M. E. Church,
South, all ho life, and "was a splendid
examplo of tho old-typo of Christian
mothers Hint nro rnpldlynpaSBlng away.
She wns truly n Christian lady In ev
ery sense of the word, and her loss
will bo keenly felt by her family, her
church and tho entire community In
which she wns so long n resident.
She Is survived by eight children,
ns follows: Mrs. J. It. Davis of this
county, Mr. D, P. Glascock of this
city, Mr. Charles' N. Glascock of Craw
fordsvillc, Ind., Mr. Robert Glascock
of Danville, 111., Mrs. Arthur Glascock
of this county, Mrs. Nancy Corbett of
Fleming county, nnd Messrs. Harry
and Scott Glascock of Mt. Carmel.
Mrs. Glascock wns n relative of
General Custer, well-known hero of
thu Mexican War.
The funeral will occur Tuesday
morning at 10 o'clock at her late home,
tho services being conducted by the
Itcv. Mr. Matthews, pastor of the M.
E. Church, South, ot Mt. Carmel.
Tho Interment will follow In the Mt
Carmel cemetery.
TOM HENDRICKS.
Tho celebrated humorist will be on
the High School Platform Wednesday
evening. Come oufnnd hear him hi
tho noted lecture, "Puncture Proof
People." Ho makes "humor and pa
Pi s play tag with each other and
i-1. lies nnd tears sit down together
laid talk over old times." Resi rvei'
eats at Williams Drugstore.
.Mr. John M. Hunt loft Sundny after
noon for n business trip to New York
City.- - . i
Read Hunt's nd and learn how to.
save money.
MARRIAGES
Nnrllil-Flxriis.
Mr. A. L. FIsous, nged 26, of Cin
cinnati, nnd Miss Virginia M. Sartln,
ngctr 30, of ' Drthnny, were united In
mnrrlago nt the home of the bride's
parents, Mr. and .Mrs. William Hartln,
nt Ilethnny Saturday nt high noon by
Rev. J. M. Llternl. Following the cer
emony a sumptuous wedding fenst was
sorved In tho beautifully decorated
dining room. Only tho near friends
and relatives of the bride and groom
wero present. The young couplo will
mako tholr future homo In Cincinnati.
Wnllliigfnrd.Hnlflilll.
Mr. Harry M. Walllngford, aged 28,
a merchant; and Miss Edna Maud
Ifalfhlll, nged 17, both of Orangeburg,
wero granted n mnrrlago license here
Saturday and wero Inter married by
Hov. H. n. Wllhoyto of the Uaptlst
Church.
Flora-Morgan.
Mr. Oscar Flora, aged 21, a painter,
ot Lexington, and Miss Flora Morgan,
nged 23, of Maysllck, wero married by
County Judge V. H. Rico Saturday In
tho County Clerk's ofllco.
For exceptional values seo Hunt's nd
VOGEL'S STAR BRAND HAMS i
ORDHR ONE TODAY
Home-Grown Potatoes 35c Per Peck
1. 1 1 . i ..a
Our Own Make Sauer Kraut 25c Gallon j
DINGKR BROS., 107 wT2nd s,ree''
Mr and Mrs, Webster T Whito ot
West Second street nrn visitors In Cin
cinnati todny.
Mr. Stanley Leo left Sunday after
noon for a business trip through West
Virginia.
-KEEP THE-
SV0SE AND THROAT I
M
Clean nnd Free From Germs. Hvery Particle o Dust Is nn
Airship For Microbes. Get .1 Good
ATOMIZER AND GERMICIDE
jj .Splendid For Cntnrrli. Let Us Show You Our New Line. jg
5 M. F. WILLIAMS DRUG COMPANY S
Suits, coats nnd dresses greatly re
duced. Details in Hunt's nd.
Mr W Holton Key loft Sunday night
for a short business trip to Louisville.
THE HOME DF QUALITY CLDTHEB
Judging from the way men are coming in for the suits and overcoats now
on sale, Our People know a good thing when they see it.
Things are happening thick and fast in the world of clothes; woolens are
soaring; trimmings are selling at record-breaking advance?; everything is going
up.
If you do not care to pay these advances in next winter's prices, there is
only one way out and that is to
1 m
The present sale began with 1,200 suits and overcoats surplus stocks of
jj four celebrated makesSociety Brand, B. R. Fashion, Michrcls, Stern & Co.,
g, and Stein-Bloch Clothes. All spic-and-span garments, too not a lot of "stick
ers.
Every man can be fitted.
D. KCH3Gta:i3SrC3-E!R. &. CO.
"Next-to-Nothinf Prices at Hunt's )
on Suits, Coats, Dresses
Women's nil wool suits, carefully tailored, coats lined with MdniH'i 's satin. Kepriciiif? has placed these suits in two
groups 2.08 aud .'j.
All-wool coals in fancy mixtures or plain colors $!':, $5, U,, $7'. Not all colors at each price hut a large general as
sortment. The prices quoted nro either half price or less.
Children's coats nt half price nnd less, liemarkable values for $2 lo 3. .Styles change so slightly in children's apparel,
you can buy one of these good looking coats with the assurance it will give the sumo stylo service next season as it does now.
Handsome coats of soft Silky Salt's seal-plush, lined through out with best qunlitv Skinner's satin. $12Vt', $1."), $lC'(; for
ir20, ;f-22'A and if.10 Coats. '
About one dozen silk dresses at less than half price. These dresses were received Into in the season from New York and
are consequently ns spic-nnd-span ns when they were. unpacked. For $0 and $7 you can buy dresses of positive $in and $17'1j
value. Every dress is an exceptional bargain.
A few all-wool skirts for 08c.
!Se to $1.1)8 is the reduced price on some silk blouses.
Itulcy knit shawls, one yard square, l!)e worth more than double.
For this week only, we place on sale, Misses' and women's fibre silk sweater coats for Gold, emerald, blue, rose,
trimmed in whito bands. A jaunty belt and smart patch pocket complete these good looking sweaters. If you nro in touch
with fashion you know silk sweaters will bo as popular as ever for spring and summer. And if you nro conversant with
trade conditions you know all kind of knit goods have greatly advanced in price.
WAXTKU.
Second-hand desk and cabinet.
Ledger Publishing Company.
Sea
Mrs. Ella M. Allen was tho guest ot
Mr. nnd Mrs. P. M. Fulkcrson nt Au
gustu during tho pnst week.
Mrs. James J. Owens is tho pleasant
guest of Miss LIda Duke Woods at
Frankfort.
Mr. William Mlntou spent Saturday
and Sunday with friends and rolatlves
In Covington,
I)
Tobacco Cottons j
Six months ago wo placed our order for tobacco cotton. Today the mill would
have been very glad to pay us a nice profit and not ship same. However you will find
same now on sale at our store. Wo can not promise tho low prices that we aro soiling
same lo last .very long. When our original purchase is oxhausted our prices will havo
to advance in accordance with today's market. 0
Tho tobacco cottons wo soli aro exceptionally good, having a fine selvage. No J
other store in Maysville can buy our brands, which aro confined to us.
When you compare prices, compare quality and you will come back hero to buy.
H'uiJt'u d.
