THE BARRE DAILY TIMES
VOL. XIX NO. 2S3.
11AUHK, VKKMOXT, MONDAY, FEimiJAKV U, 1910.
PJiICJE, ONE CENT.
BRITISH
CRUISER
SLOST
The Arcthusa Struck a Mine
off the East Coast of Eng
land and the Official Press
Bureau Reports That She
May Be a Complete Wreck
ONLY TEN MEN ARE
SAID TO BE LOST
NOTABLE GAINS MADE
BY GERMANS IN WEST
Activity on the major war
front is con (I lied mainly to north
ern France, tho intensity of lmt
tling being most pronounced in tlio
Artois district, where the Ger
mans claim notable gains recently.
In tho Balkans, the entente
forces arc reported as extending
their positions around Salnniki,
concentrating troop a far for
ward a the Bulgarian frontier.
In Allmnia, tin- situation rou
tining niixt'il. Unitarian troops
ore said to have advanced ill the.
r-otith a far a Fieri, 10 mile
from Avlona, whilo the Austrian
column was recently reporti'd at
Tirana, 20 mile went of Durazzo,
The Italians have Im'pii in force at
Avlona and seem also to liave a
considerable body of troops oppos
ing tlio Austrian in the Durazzo
sector.
Report from Alliens credit tho
Turkish government with the in
tention of strongly reinforcing
the armies in Mesopotamia, where
the British on the Tigris are
struggling to push their way to
Kut-El-Amara and relieve the be
leaguered little army there.
FARM LOANS
ARE FAVORED
Part of Province of the
Federal Reserve
Banks
WILSON SAYS
HE WILL RUN
SIX AMENDMENTS
TO ACT PROPOSED
To-day Formally Gave Con
sent for the Use of His
Name as Candidate
Board Makes Report to Con
gress of Working of
New System
Washington, D. C, Feb, I I.-Si
amendments to tlio federal reserve .c
were reeom mended to Congress to-day in
the report of the federal reserve Itoar
for tho first full year of operation of th
new banking system.
"A year's experience in the operation
of the federal reserve act," says the re
nort. "has confirmed the board in its pro
the Loss of the French Pedares She WU1 Sink Armed Merchant fomi(1 fonvi,tlon tlmt tIl0 ,t ,..
Official Confirmation Was
Made by French To-day of
AUSTRIA SENDS
HER NOTICE, TOO
Cruiser Amiral Charner
off the Syrian Coast
London, Feb. 14. The British cruiser
Arethusa struck a mine to-day off the
east 'coast of England, according to a
statement from the official press bureau, (substantially tho same as that received
It is feared the vessel was a total wreck, from Germany
Ships Without Warning After March
1 Warning Much the Same aa
Germany's.
Washington, I). C, Feb. 14. Austria's
formal notification of the intention to
sink armed merchant ships without
warning after March 1 was received at
the state department to-day. It was
About 10 men were lost.
Paris, Feb. 14. Reports of the loss of
the French cruiser Amiral Charner, re
ported sunk by a submarine while pa
trolling the Syrian coast, were confirmed
to-day. According to information re
ceived by the ministry of the marine, a
V - 1;... Mn:iA n 1 th. ln ,1
1 - - neon ontHincti. lie was
les of 14 companions, was picked up ott lieutenant last month
the coast of Syria.
GRAHAME-WHITE INJURED.
Famous British Aviator Was Recently
Made a Lieutenant.
Hazcrbrouck, France, Feb. 14. Claude
Grahame-White. the Hritish aviator, ha
,. ., . . , I been wounded gravely. No details have
live sailor and the bod- L, . . , ..
Lieut.-Graham-White, one of the best
known aviators, won international prom
inence several years ago by his speetacu
lar flights in Kmland and America, lie
enli)te,f in hn nnvul eoma of the not
A 1 1 VV U 1 Uii 1 o break of the war and was appointed tem
porary night commander. A year ago
he had a narrow escape from death
After .participation in a raid by a squad
ron of aeroplaue on Belgian towns, he
fell into the sea but was picked up by a
cruiser.
Lieut. Grahame-Wliite's wife, formerly
Miss Dorothy Taylor of Xew York, ob
tained lust month a "decree for restitu
tion of eonjugal rights, an action which
in Kngland is a preliminary step to a
suit for divorce.
TOTAL OF 1,100 YARDS
TAKEN BY GERMANS
Northwest of Tahure They Captured 300
Men and Seven Officers and in Aben
sept They Took 400 Yards
of Trenches.
Berlin, via London, Feb. 14 Important
gains, for the Germans in , two engage
ments were reported to-day by the war
office northwest of Tahure. Positions
over a front of 700 yards were captured
and seven officers and 300 men were made
prisoners. In the region of Abensept,
near the French frontier, allied positions
4(10 yards long were captured.
one of the most beneficial pieces of leg'
itilntion ever adopted by Congress. Xot
onlv have its fundamental principles
been f nil v vindicated but in most details
the working of the measure has been
successful."
The amendments recommended would
I'ermit national banks to subscribe am
hold stock in Iwnks organized for the
special purpose of doing a banking bus
iness in foreign countries;
Permit, with the approval of the board.
the issue of federal reserve notes to lel
eral reserve banks either against the de
posit of commercial paper or gold, pro
vided that the gold so deposited shall
count as part of the required reserve of
the bank;
Lxtend the acceptance system to the
domestic trade so far as it relates to
documentary acceptances secured by
shipping documents or warehouse re
jHgjonp(j Iceipts, covering readily marketable com-
nioumcs or against me pieuge ui goous
actually sold;
Permit national Iwnks to establish
branch office a within the city or county
in which thev are located;
Permit advances to member lwinks
against the member banks' secured
promissory notes or against the deposit
or pledge of I . S. government bonds;
Authorize a wide discretion in the
making of farm loans by national banks
so that a federal reserve bank might
make proper loans of this kind within a
radius of 100 miles of its place of bus
iness whether in its district or another
district. .,
ILLUMINATING GAS
CAUSED DEATH
CAPTURED IN RUTLAND.
FRENCH EXPLODED MINE.
Man Wanted in Worcester, Mass.
Assault and Robbery.
Rutland, Feb. 14. Cvrille Leclair
for
to War Office.
Paris, Feb. 14. French forces have ex
ploded a mine on the road between Neu
ville and LaFolie, according to a war of
fice announcement this afternoon.
MILAN ATTACKED
BY AEROPLANES
of
.Between Neuville and LaFolie, According Worcester, Mass., who has been living at
a rooming house at 5 Grove street, for
the last three weeks, was arrested last
night by Chief of Police B. S. Hyland on
a warrant issued in Massachusetts charg
ing the man with assault and robbery. A
detective from the office of R. K. Molt,
of the Massachusetts district police, will
come to Rutland after the man, who has
waived his right for a hearing on extra
dition proceedings.
Leclair, who is about 25 years old,
passed the night in one of the detention
cells at police headquarters and in the
next cell was a girl by the name of Hilda
Klo of Fitchburg, Mass., who claims to
be Mrs. Leclair, a statement denied by
the police both in this city and Worces
ter. She is held on a warrant issued by
Grand Juror diaries E. Novak, charging
a statutory offense.
It is claimed that Leclair while a mem
ber of a joy riding party on the outskirts
of Worcester, assaulted and robbed a
man, getting away with his gold watch.
The watch was found in his clothes when
he was searched at the police station last
night. He claimed the party visited a
road house and bought some beer. As
one of the men did not have the neces
sary cash to pay his share he left the
atch with the proprietor, who later
turned the timepiece over to Leclair. This
story is not believed by the Worcester
police.
Chief of Police- Hyland received word
yesterday from Detective Molt, who said
he believed leclair was living in this
city, the letter containing a picture of
Miss Llo. They were finally located at
74 Grove street, the home of Mrs. P. M.
Clifford.
Fred Hall, Who Was 60, Unmarried, in
Good Health and with $7,500 in His
Trunk, Died in Burlington.
Burlington, Feb. 14. Fred Hall, aged
00, and a native of Rutland, whero his
mother lives, died of illuminating gas
thra morning in the office of the fish mar
ket where he was emploved. Hall was
in good health and death is said to have
been accidental. He had $7,500 in a
trunk at home. Hall was not married.
FOUR GENERATIONS
AT CELEBRATION
Fiftieth Wedding Anniversary of Mr.
and Mrs. Wilbur F. Bradford of
Barre Is eing Observed
To-day.
Four generations of Bradford joined
with neighbors and other friends to-day
in celebrating the uOlli wedding anni
versary of Mr. and Mra. Wilbur F. Brad
ford of 30 Park street. It was a quiet
observance, withal an occasion that
served to remind the worthy couple of IS NOT, WILLING
close Jamily tip and last, lnenusmps
that are, among the happiest compensa
tions of a lialf-eentury of wedded life,
With the principals in the marriage cere
mony of St. Valentine's day 50 year ago
there assembled to-day three children,
Merton A. Bradford ,pf .larre, Mrs. l.illa
Ingalls of Greensboro, and Archie C.
Bradford of Barre, three grandchildren,
Harry McLeod, Evelyn Bradtord and
Natalie Bradford, and great-grandson,
Donald McLeod, son of Mr. and Mrs.
Harry McLeod. A daughter, Nellie Brad
ford, died at the ago of 13.
Mr. and Mra. Bradford were married in
Xorthfield Feb. ll.MWfl, by Rev. F. S
Coleman, a prominent clergyman of the
Methodist denomination in that day
They came immediately to Barre and
have resided here continuously. Mrs
Bradford was born Alma h. Cults in
Newport Aug. 21, 148. Mr. Bradford is
a native of Barre.
183f,
John w. Mcdonald,
QUARRY OWNER,
DIED TO-DAY
For 30 Years He Had Been Prominent
Figure in Development of the Barra
Granite Industry Was Born
in Winslow, P. Q.
John W, McDonald, president of the
Consolidated Quarry Co., a former presi
dent of tho Barre Granite Manufacturers'
association, an ox-alderman and for nc-a
Iv 30 vears connected in one way and
another with the granite industry here
TO ENTER CONTEST Paed away at his home, fl!) Hill etrce
this morning at 4:40 o'clock. Mr. Mc
Donald bad been ill for Jive weeks. He
FIRE WRECKED
PART OF PLANT
But General Electric Com
pany Would Give Out
. No Information
But He Gives His Consent to
Permit Expression of
Sentiment in Ohio
AS A CANDIDATE
FOR WAR OFFICE
contest for the nomination, but was
He was born June 3, ready to permit the use of bis name in
Husband and wife claim ancestors the coining primaries in order that tho
in the Mayflower, heing descendants hy Democrats of Ohio might express their
direct lineage of Governor Jiradlord. It preference,
is interesting to note that Mr. Isradford s
greatgrandfather. Major William Brad'
ford, whose tnn, it may be added was a
soldier in the American Revolution, mar
ried Hannah Bruce, Mra. Bradford's
great-grandmother, the ceremony having
been performed in Mpunt Vernon. N. H.,
according to data available in the family
records. ' ; .
Both Mr. and .Mrs. liradford have a
large number of friends in Barre and
surrounding towns. Mr, Bradford has
been a contractor amj builder for many
years, having had charge pf the construc
tion of many dwelling and other build-
ngs in this city. Mf t period of four
vears he was engaged aa city building in
spector and for 12 years be was Barre's
nspector of wood and lumber. Mr. and
Mra. Bradford are adherents of the Con
gregational church. They are enjoying
xcellent health. r k
is survived by bis wife, who was Miss
Katherine McLcay, to whom he Was mar
ried in Poston in November, 1894;
brother, I. W. McDonald of Barre, who
has been his business associate for some
vears: and two sisters. Mrs. John Me-
Aulav of Milan. P. O.. and Mrs. D. D,
Washington, W. C, cl. 1 t resident , McDonald was born in Winslow
Wilson to-day formally gave his consent p. O., 54 years ago. He received his cdu
for hia name to be used as a candidate cation m tho schools of his native di
for renominiiion. Tn a letter tn the seel tri a"d to Barre around 30 years
lacrn nrwf wna omnlnved fnr a. time flft R
retary of state of Ohio, the president it(1(,utteri jH business ability soon
stated that he was , unwilling to enter a asserted itself in a desire to establish a
manufacturing plant and the firm of Mc
Donald Bros, was the result. I-ater be
was interested in the firm of McDonald
A. Cutler and for a number of years he
was one of the best known manufactur
era in tho Barro district. McDonald &
Cutler also entered the quarrying bus
1.1 IKTII A I.S KI.TMIIV ATKIl mess and some years ago when the Con
sonuaiea yuarrv to, was organizeu iiir,
Friends of the President Think That No
Army Man Will Be Selected, but
Wilson Has Made No
Statement.
Washington, D. C Feb. 14. The May
flower with President and Mra. Wilson
aboard arrived here early to-day, after
their wcek-entl tnn. 1 he acht had a
rough voyage home, (luring which no one Granite lodge, Granite chapter, St. Alde-
Ictt the cabin, and it was said that some "mr -""" j "
McDonald withdrew from active partici
pation in the manufacturing cud of the
granite industry. He was one of the
more active figures that have' helped to
establish the reputation of the native
stone. As one of the controlling mem
bers and president of the Consolidated
company, he divided his time between
the concern's North Main street office
and the quarries. In 1897-1808 he. served
tho city as ii Merman.
lYominent for many vears in fraternal
circles, he early affiliated himself with
Masonry in this city. He belonged to
MARRIAGE AT CITY HALL.
Later a Reception Was Held at Home of
the Bride.
members of the party were seasick.
With his return, President Wilson was
ready to begin a series of conferences
with congressional leaders over the ap
pointment of a secretary of war, national
defense plana and other pending legisla
tion. I hose in a position to know think
that the president will not name any army
man for the cabinet vacancy. That would
pie. He was a member of Clan Gordon,
O. S. C, and belonged to the Quarry
Owners association.
An announcement of plans for the. fu
neral will be made to-morrow. It ia re
quested that flowers be omitted.
AN INVALID MANY YEARS.
afternoon "at city ball when Adalgisa Bo- fl,n"ate Major-Oenerml Goethals, who Mrs. Annie E. Bill Passed Away at Home
nazzoli, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Pietro bec recommended for the place It Daughter in Barre.
Bonazzoli of 11 Third street, and Guido wP'nCT7. th T ,r . r T, 77 , ,
Braganti of Barre pledged their marriage nTJ I,erm,tted to mm hl8 OWn ,A F" w,,,e "f be kt
vows before City Clerk James Mackay, a8"ta.n.t . . . ... Ldward B. Bill of Montreal. P. Q., passed
.... .:.! 4k President ilson reached no decision away at the home of her daughter, Mrs.
uvr umviaK U ill nr: i a
ofthepeaec. The bride was attended by -i , 1 T ZJ h 7 o , ODPrV"m 8l71'
acted as groomsman. IHtle Vem is Bo-
Six People Were Killed and Several Were
Injured By Bombs Dropped on
Italian City.
London, Feb. 14. A dispatch from Mi
Inn says that six were killed and several
injured by bombs from aeroplanes over
the city tins morning.
NEW BRITISH DEMAND
FOR WAR CREDIT
rarnamenc win ce AsKea tor 1,250,-
000,000 When It Reassembles To-morrow,
According to an Un
official Statement.
London, Feb. 14. It is expected that
the next note On credit will be intro
duced soon after Parliament re-assem-b!c
to-morrow. The statement is made
unofficially that the vote will be for 250,
000 pounds, which will bring the total
war credit to 1 ,000,OoO,l 2 pounds.
ALL SINGLE MEN
C . CALLED TO ARMS
Last British Recruits Under the Derby
System Warned to Report by an
Official Proclamation To-day.
Tor-don, Feb. 14. An ofl'.cial proclama
tion calling iijsin the remaining single
nn under the Derby plan anil the mili
tary service act was posted to-day.
fhe call t color will have the effect
of enrolling all the single men of mili
ary ;ie ho have not been exempted.
WATERBURY OBITUARY.
TREES WERE SNAPPED OFF.
Mrs. Mary Carroll and Joseph Devoid
Former Died in Burlington.
Waterbnrv, Feb. 14. Mrs. Mary Car
roll died this noon at the home of her-
daughter inllurlington from pneumonia.
(She was 82 years of age and was born in
Ireland. Mie was the mother of Charles
Robinson and William Carroll of this
town and of Mrs. Lizzie Mulqueen of
Kurnngton. 1 here are six grandchildren.
The body will be brought to Waterbury
for burial, and the funeral will probably
be held in St. Andrew's church Wednes
day moaning.
Joseph Devoid died of tuberculosis last
night at the home of his mother on
North Alain street. He would have been
40 years of nge next July. He leaves,
lesides his mother, his wife and two
children; two brothers, Louis-Devoid of
Waterbury and William Devoid of Cut re -mont,
X. If.; four sisters. Mr. Charles
Palmer, Mrs. Antonio Datoni. Mrs. Low
ney Guyette and Mrs. Leo Marehi. The
funeral will probably be held from St.
Andrew's church Wednesday morning.
mtzzoli, a niece of the bride, acted as
ower girl, carrying a larc bouquet of
arnations and ferns. The bride was
gowned in a light blue dress of aeeordion-
plaited crepe de chine, which was
rimmed with shadow and silver laee.
er attendant wore a peach-colored silk
dress. .
After the ceremony the bridal party
ent to the homo of the bride's parents,
here a bountiful Italian repast was
served, to be followed by a reception in
the evening, when many friends of the
bride and groom took occasion to con
gratulate trie coupie ana wish tnem a
prosperous future. Numerous gifts of
china, linen and silver gave evidence of
the high regard in which the bride and
groom are held in the Italian community.
At miduight Saturday Mr. and Mrs.
Braganti ere escorted to the station,
where they left at 12:35 Sunday morn
ing 011 a trip through Massachusetts to
visit relatives. On returning from their
honeymoon the couple will be at home to
their friends at oS Beckley street. .
tomac, and a successor for Secretary Gar
rison may not be announwa I or several
days. ;
FORMER TAX COMMISSIONER.
Judson E. Cushman Died in Burlington
As Result of Shock.
Burlington, Feb. 14. The funeral of
Judson K. Cushman, Vermont tax com
missioner for a dozen years, who died
Saturday afternoon from a shock of
paralysis, will lie held at his home, 31
lay morning
Bill bad been an invalid for the past
eight years. Two weeka ago she was
stricken with pneumonia and three
shocks which she suffered are believed to
have hastened the end. She is survived
by a daughter, Mrs. Robertson, and three
sons, George Bill, who is with a Canadian
regiment somewhere in France, Horace.
Bill of St. Paul. Minn., and Rupert Bill
of Montreal, P. 0- Two sisters also sur
vive, one living in Xew Zealand, while
the other is a resident of Northampton,
Kng.
Mrs. Bill was born Annie E. Wood- j
mansie in Yorkshire, Kng., May 2, 1855.
MARKET INVESTIGATOR
FOR VERMONT NAMED
School street. Tuesday afternoon at 2
o'clock. From It to 1 o'clock the body Her marriage to Mr. Jiiu took place in
will lio in fj4 tn h iWed hv friends. Kngland Jl years ago. for a number ot
Judson E. Cushman was torn in Brain- years Mr. ana .Mrs. js vea in ..nont-
tree, April 27, 1800, the son of Earl S. real, where the formers death occurred
and Mary (Umb) Cushman. He was ed- in 10O8. Mrs. Bill had resided with her
ucated in the public schools and at Ran- daughter for the past eight years. As
dolnh State Normal school. He taught an invalid she endured much suffering
MUNITIONS W0TXS
WERE .ROYED
Of Late.ie Plant Had
Ber" Juarded Very
1 Closely
Schenectady, X. Y., Feb. 14. The mu
nitions plant of tho General Electric)
company was wrecked by a iire to-day.
The blaze was finally extinguished by
the company's private fire department
and no report was made to the city po
lice or iire authorities. Moreover, offi
cials of the company withheld all infor
mation regarding the fire.
Kmploven of the munitions plant were
sent home, and it was reported that tho
roof of the building had fallen in and tho
walls were declared to bo unsafe. Tho
plant has been closely guarded for some
time and no one was allowed to approach
the munitions building to-day.
BIG FIRE LOSS AT CORNELL.
Morse Hall Destroyed, with Loss of $300,
000. '
Ithaca, X. Y., Feb. 14. Morse ball,
erected in 1890 and containing Cornell
university's valuable chemical laborato
ries and scientific equipment, was de
stroyed by fire early yesterday. The loss
is estimated at $.1110,000, partly covered
by insurance. The cause has not been
letermined, ns there was no one 111 the
building at the time.
The iire started in a photographic lab
oratory 011 the third floor of the main
building and Bpread to the Carnegie ad
dition, erected several years ago at a cost
f $6.'i,000. Firemen were menaced by
hemical explosions and the lack of wat-
prcssure hampered their work. A
uantity of chemicals which, it is said.
minot be replaced in this country at
present owing to the war, was consumed,
Hhough radium worth about $1,W0 wa
aved.
More than 2500 students will have to
rearrange their schedules, as every course
t Cornell except that of law requires
the study of chemistry.
WAN X- OFFICIAL- SANCTION
WAS WIN00SKI YOUTH.
John
A Great Oil Tank Went Down 50 Feet
Embankment.
Middlebury, Feb. 1 4. Catapulting
over a 30-iot embankment Saturday
afternoon halfway between here and Rip
ton, a 500 gallon tank of oil drawn by
four linrscs reached the bottom intact,
only the wagon being injured, literally
smashed to pieces. II. J. Jordan of Bur
lington, who was taking the place of
Driver Barton, who is ill, jiiuicd in time
lo ave himself, (hie of tht horses was
ri. ... .. -1. i:.i ....
der tl,e Karl of Derby plant are snbje, t ;ilirt
to r-ompulry service with certain classes . c. , ,. , '. .
of oxemrtinna under the terms of th, .,1 1 . 1 hfi b, "dard M wagon was being
effective Feh. 10. 4 Il, di,..t. l, ' ,Irwn. to KlPt nd Mr. Jordan,
Saturday night forenting to dv' call v.'
-mHi nnrperieuy speeiiy summons
might b attributed to many went con
sultations hetween the minister of muni-
P. Killeen, Boston Elevator Boy,
Held for Manslaughter.
Winooski. Feb. 14 The outcome of Die
case of John P. Killeen, elevator lioy In
the Lawrence building, Tloston. charged
with manslaughter, as the result of the
death of Eleanor Chase of Med for J, Mast.,
who fell from the seventh floor to the
basement, dying while in the ambulance
on the way to tiie hospital, is awaited
with interest here. The accident occurred
Friday morning and Saturday in police
court Killeen was held for hearing Friday
of this week in bonds of SI.inn). He will
be rememliered by friends here John
Rand, having lieen adopted by Rp. J 1 j
Rand. He is now but. 20 years tdd, was !
educated ill the nchool here, and for ai
Morgens R. Tolstmp of Ames, la., Will
Try to Develop Better Markets
For Vermont Farmers.
St. Albans, Feb. 14. C. J. Brand, chief
of the Cnited States office of markets
and E. S. Brigham. commissioner of agri
culture, have appointed Morgens R. Tol
strup, of Ames, la., to the position of
market investigator for Vermont.
Mr. Tolstrup is a native of Denmark.
He was educated in the Roval Agricul
tural college of Copenhagen, and in 1011
was graduated from the Iowa Agricul
tural college, where lie has been an in
structor since 1912.
Mr. Tolstrup will work along the line
of developing better markets for Ver
mont agricultural products and in this
work will be the joint employe of the
federal office of markets and the Ver
mont department of agriculture. This ar
rangement will give the farmers of Ver
in the South Royalton village school from
1878 to 1SH0 and the Richmond village
school from 1880 to 1881.
Mr. Cushman was admiited to the bar
Oct. 28, 188B, and begun practice in Ran
dolph. He removed to Burlington in Au
gust, 1887, and formed a partnership
with H R. Hard. In 1896 he formed a
partnership with Edmund C. Mower
which continued till 1900. when ho be
came associated with his brotlier-in-law,
Alfred L. Sherman, the firm of Cush
man A. Sherman continuing till 1906.
He was city grand juror from 1888 to
1890, and from the latter year till 1894
he was state's attorney for Chittenden
county. He was elected professor of med
ical jurisprudence in the medical depart
ment of the University of Vermont in
1895, being elected annually ever since.
Mr .Cushman was tax commissioner from
1900 to 1912, and during his administra
tion the revenue more than doubled. His
first year the revenue was a little under
many
in the
with Christian fortitude. For
vears she had been a communicant
Episcopal church.
Funeral services will be held at the
house Tuesday afternoon at 2 o'clock.
Rev. W. J. M. Beattie. rector of the
Church of the Good Shepherd, will be the
officiating clergyman, assisted bv Rev.
J. W. Barnett, pastor of the Congrega
tional church. Interment will be made
in Hope cemetery.
For Taking Over the Almon Plant By
Tenney Corporation.
At the Senate chamber in Montpelier
this afternoon, the Vermont public serv-
c commission gave a hearing on the pe-
tion of the Montpelier fc Barre Light &
Power Co. to acquire the Waterbury
ight & Power Co. (the Almon plant),
Inch was taken over some time ago.
Formal approval had not been given by
e public service commission. J he pc-
tioning company was represented by
the following: President A. B. Tenney,
nginccnng Manager r. C. Sargent, And-
tor H. A. Gidtiey and Attorney R. L.
Dana, all of Boston, and Assistant At
torney Fred E. Gleason of Montpelier.
LEAVES DAUGHTER IN BARRE.
INTERMENT IN HOPE CEMETERY.
Body of Mrs. Margaret Soben Brought
From Auburn, Me.
The remains of Mrs. Margaret (Mont
gomery) Roben, whose death occurred
Friday morning at the home of her son,
Dr. Matthew G. Roben, in Auburn, Me.,
arrived in the city Saturday afternoon
over the M. & W. R. railroad at 5:30
legislation was drafted as it now stands
by Mr. Cushman.
In 1882 he married Xina L. Rawson of
Westford. Besides his wife, he is sur
vived by three children, Mrs. Carl II. Car
roll of Boston. Ralph E. Cushman of
Rochester, X. Y., and Miss Grace M.
Cushman of Burlington, and by one sis
ter. Mrs. Alfred E. Sherman, of this citv.
mont the benefit of identification with 1 He is also survived by two granddaugh
the work of the federal office which novter, Richard and Dorothy Carroll.
of
o'clock and funeral services were held at
$500,000 and in his last year, 1912, it was 174 south Main street Sunday afternoon
.14.V),(HH). A larg- part of the taxation t 2 o'clock. Rev. Edgar Cro'ssland, pas
has an appropriation of 250,01 SI an
nually and has organized market inve&ti-
ational work on an extensive seal;.
ALLEGED TO BE BURGLAR.
Raymond Mangan is Being Held in Rut
land County.
Charles H. Stewart Died in Burlington
Hospital Saturday.
Burlington, Feb. 14. Charles II. Stew-
Rutland. Feb. 14. On a warrant issued tart, a former well known resident of Bur-
by District Attorney V. A. Dullard of lingfon. but who for the past year had
Burlington, Raymond Mangan was r- lived in Ilealdville, died Saturday morn-
ret-ted at the county jail Saturday liviine at a local hospital after abort ill-
Deputy I nited States Mar-ha hitta- ' ness with grip. The body was taken to
Mr. Cushman was. a past master
Washington lodge, Xo. 3, F. and A. M.
ILL WITH GRIP BUT SHORT TIME.
time was a Mndent at M. .Michael s col- I L or 1 in m ihm r fre f,f (treat in,T in i l. w,af . i l.a itn.erf If lurlnra ef l?aa.l A- li.a..
tor of the First Presbyterian church, was
the officiating clergyman and the bearers
were: George Roben of South Ryegate,
Douglas C. Roben of east bill and Dr.
M. G. Roben, sons of the deceased, and
Thomas Sheriffs of Montpelier. There
was a profusion of flowers. During the
services George F. Mackay sang. "Beau
tiful Isle of Somewhere" and "Face to
Face." Interment was made in the fam
ily lot in Hope cemetery.
John C. Delany Was Well Known Resi
dent of Burlington. .
Burlington, Feb. 14.- John C. Delany,
for many years a well known resident of
Burlington, died yesterday afternoon at
his home, 80 Chase street, after an illness
resulting from a paralytic shock received
last Tuesday. Mr. Delany, who was of
advanced years, was born in Ireland, 'but
his parents came 'to this country when
he was a small boy, and practically his
entire life had been spent in Burlington.
He is survived by three daughters, Mrs.
James T. Marrion of Barre. Mrs. J. D.
Waterman and Miss Dora E. Delany of
this city, and by three sons, Thomas A.,
and Henry S. Delany of Burlington, and
Rev. C. C. Delany of White River Junc
tion. The funeral will be held Tuesday
morning , at 9 o'clock at St. Mary's
cathedral, and burial will be in St. Jo
seph's cemetery.
BODY TAKEN TO PLATTSBURG.
FUNERAL OP GRANITE MAN.
That of John S. Collins Was Held Sunday
Afternoon.
Funeral services for Joint S. Collins.
Barre's nonagenarian grunitecutter ami
manufacturer, whose death mvurred at
his home. 5 Hill street. Friday morning
at 1:30 o'clock, were held at the house
Sunday afternoon at 2 oVhxk. The offi
ciating clergyman was Rev. Mr. Huntley
of Morrisville, w Uo spoke feelingly of the
deceased. I lie hearer were: Artlmr
A Terrill and
nan u li.i af nrauml I u I i rr ...!.! K ,m 1. I.. n( I r. l ll'U.l.. !-, .' , t-i
, ,, . . . .... .. : : , , , . . , . i- - - i v .... ........ . ...... oinirii at i nomas nsivofa. mere were numerous
... ........... ,.v-jr nHi.ti - - ...j n.,7 .cuiiuiT oinciii
hat is known as the mountain road, Mr. Lawrence building about two years. A t,P W. F. Hy
w drivinir. was accompanied hv
I i, 1 , K ollicc at tenter Kullana. loung Man-Ion 1'earl street, and later was removed Huse. Haves Baiwett.
-Mr. i ..-.,.,.,,, niinr nr lounu employ
Mrs. Ellen Slee Died in Graniteville Sun
day Morning.
Mrs. Ellen Sice died at the home of
her half-brother, Thomas Brady, in Gran
iteville Sunday morning at 9 o'clock, the
end following an illness of a week.
Death was due to an attack of the grip.
Early this morning the remains were
brought to this city and taken over the
Central Vermont railroad to Plattbtirg,
N". Y.. where the funeral was held this
forenoon. Interment was in Plattsburg.
Mr. Slee was born in Dannemora X.
V.. 70 years ago. I'ntil two years ago,
when slie came to Graniteville to reside,
she lived in Ijiwrcnce, Mass., where the
death of her husband, George Slee, oc
curred nine years ago. Her half-brother
was the only near relative surviving, al
though James Sullivan of Brook street,
ltarre, was a cousin of the deceased.
tion arc! the war oKce.
SEPARAIE PEACE FOR BULGARIA?
Ccnfirn-rd in Entente Circle-!, So British
Taper Hears
London. Feb. !4. The Echtnp Tele
graph company rweivrj the follow in j j gng the four big
.'r-ft'B yt"Tiar from Athens: i
":t i confirm J in entente nrrles t hat
Bulbar a has made ov-rtmrs for a p.
r: jwaee to tn enVnt- .""!.
WANT POLES AS SOLDIERS.
'Whi
Myer alitrhted and walked behind the! brother, Thomas Killeen, resides here
wagon. There is nunh snow and the rear
wheels f the wagon began to slide .fT
the road, which is without a guard rad.
Seing that the wagon was going over. Mr.
Jordan jumped.
Trees that were eiM and ten inches
thirk were snapped in two as the wucn
went hurtling down the steep hank, drag-
nores down with
i:. 1 he animals had a miia. iil.m a
from imtSB. death. TeaTr-tees firnit?9 eeld autonomv under thn fciueraint v .f
ntantla rmany. in which r-nt Ormanr wilt
Is on a charge of entering
rrne store at Center Rutland.
20 Xortn Winooski avenue. .Mr. Stewart. fin. floral tributes. A nutnbrr t,f Mr. Col-
who was M years eld. had represented ! !,, eomradea in R B. (rand II rft. G.
possibly lie tried in I'nited Mates court
first.
the wholesale hnu of Knight & Jhn(
I wick of Xew York for a number of years
in Vermont, and wag also well known
; throughout the atate as a champion
clie ker piayrr. nr i survived tiv one
i I irofi
-Jdown the noiin!ain bel( to d
tre freezing fcre.
fe was arraigned atiirdar before
Germans are Said to Desire the Enliit. 1 n',r,l States t ommi-ioner J. A. Mer-
ment Of 900 000 of Them. i " i''p'l'"jr 't jruilty and daughter. M:s Ali Stewart of Burling-j
' waiving examination be was tdacej und-r 'ton. and a son. Clifford, of Healdtille. hv '
ten. 1 4. A oiMmt.-h t the i bomis of . which he cou I1 net fur- one iter. Mrs. tame Mulcahr of Hard-
Wi k. and by five brother. John. Jame
robbery oeeurird le.-eniber 22. 'and Fred of MrrivUIe. Frank of HvnV
nd alt'fuch the -toiTioe depart- I'eik and Jcph of XorthfieM. The fu
ll. t entere.1 t), oJTene i. as neral will hi,j at ! fU k Tned
Giat the buibiing contained morning at St. Marr'e cathedral and bir-
A. R. attended the services. Interment
was made in the family lot at LimnooJ
cemetery.
NEWPORT MAN KILLED IN WAR.
!ndon,
ro.t from its Berne e-.rrejondent atate nih.
tliat rt-rmany i making atrenuou ef-j The
forts t indiK-e the Pole to afciee to ae. , 1015. i
mnt w a
eriou, in
fi-rm an additional aimy of ty" Pule, the fwtoi'ke.
tl ill be in St. Jir j h ceineterjr.
Stanley B. Morehouse Was with Canadi
ii Contingent.
Ottawa. Nit.. Frb. M.-Stanley B.
M-Tehoiie of X'ewMrt. t.. ba len
kill,-.! in a. tion. a.i--'rding t. tl, or--a
eaualty ltt nia.i. ptildio la-t n,g t
if the miiilarj' dcartinent.
DEATH OF WAITSFIELD WOMAN.
Mrs. John Maxwell Died Saturday at Age
of 72 Years.
Wait-licld. Feb. 14. Eliza Ferri. wile
ol John Maxwell. peil away at tier
home in Witlield Saturday after an ill
ness of long duration. She was 72 year
of age. Mie leaves, beside her husband,
six daughter and two son. The funeral
will be held from her late home Tucd.iy
afternoon at 2 o'clock.
32 BELOW ZERO
Was Registered at Enesburg Falls To
day. M. Ailwn. tb. 14. The thermometer
went tt 24 degree l-loi- rem I ere hi",
morning. At an?on and at Rclford
t I-iow and at Enbitr Falls 3i
U low.
