ijc jJc s( s s( ) sfs jjc sjt )js ifc ij sfs 5c
FULL LEASED
WIRE DISPATCHES
0 fl
CIRCULATION IS
OYER 4000 DAILY
.
'
THIRTY-EIGHTH YEAR
SALEM, OREGON, MONDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1916
Ttnrnr? wxvn nvKTQ 0N trains and nrw
PRICE TWO CENTb stands five cents
4 ((Mirffif
I ill J LA P XYV AA fU-L
' I I J K , K 1 f I I
U ANNOUNCES US
WILLINGNESS 10 RUN
Writes Letter to Secretary of State Hildebrand of Ohio
. Consenting the Use of His Name On Ballot Says He Is
Unwilling to Enter Into Any Contest for Nomination
But Gives Consent to Use of I by Any Delegate to
National Convention Using It o
Washington, Feb. 14. Presich
ally announced himself a Candida
step was taken when he wrote tc
Hildebrand of Ohio, assenting to
Ohio primary ballots. - '
In casting his hat into the political ring, the president
wrote:
"My Dear Sir: I am enclosing you a letter; the oc
casion of which I dare say, will be quite obvious. Friends
in Ohio have called my attention to section 4945 of .the
general code of Ohio as amended in 1914 with reference
to primary elections, and have requested that I indicate
my willingness to have my name used. Accordingly I
take the liberty of sending you the enclosed letter as
formal permission under the statute."
The enclosed letter to which Wilson referred, said:
"Hon Charles Hildebrand, secretary of state, Colum
bus. Ohio.
"My Dear Sir: While I am entirely unwilling to enter
into any contest for the presidential nomination of the
democratic party, I am willing to permit the use of my
name so that democrats in Ohio may make known their
preference in regard to that nomination. In order,
therefore, to satisfy the technical requirement of the
statute, I hereby consent to the use of my name as candi
date for the presidency by any candidate who seeks to be
elected a delegate to the national; democratic convention
which assembles in June. Respectfully,
(Signed) "Woodrow Wilson."
The letter was mailed today, and was made public by
the White House without any comment. The announce
ment was not in the nature of a surprise for it, had been
known for some days that the president intended- to per
mit use of his name in Ohio.
IS STjLLUNDECiDED
Death of High School Girl Baf
fles Authorities Investi
gating It
Madison. Wis.. Feb. 14-Startline evi-
dence that mnv have a vital effect on ! the-result ot a awn p or !....,
the case of Villinm Orpet, Tniversity the k.l hng of M.ss Av.s I.u incll for
..f Wisconsin student, accused of kill- which the Rev. t. V . 1. K.chcson of
i.r lH-year-old Marian Lambert, was Boston, was electrocuted, remained to
unearthed todav when Charles Messeu- dav an unsolved mystery,
ger. a drug stotre clerk, admitted sell- J.ven State, Attorney Dady who
iiig Orpet on empty two ounce bottle 1oJKet a murder charge again W ;1
im thePdav Orpet left for his tr.v Orpet n.ivers.ty ot Wisconsin
with the girl. I .!"."- ft"lth 'ounf m"n i h.,.r
UcKsinger admitted that he sold Orpet I n imacy with the g.M and of Ins walk
abortive medicine, through a friend, last with her , the woods where her bod
AuKUKt. He denied though that there was later found, admitted he was not
was poison in the emptv bottle he sold I sure about which theory to entertain
Orpet personam- on Tuesday. , f-J were made today to free the
The authorities have beon unable thus "d before night. The girl s mother,
far to find the bottle from which the believes Orpet innocent or giving po.s
girl took poison. 1 'hc K"' un,1r tll? K"' of
Dady intimated that Other arrests are,' to correct her condition. She is
' aiding Orpet 's mother in the fight t
-- - - - - -i--i snve him.
; The t.nmbert and Orpet families, a-
! Aba Carta
A.
. iii A' ri I
11
ys rH I J.
r.z J'ash lias lest Ins teeth an tie
1:ilks like an c.li- inner tube fallin '
don n stairs. Xothin' succeeds like
tuiuctliiii ' Bryan hain't for.
Vilson today forra,
r re-election. This
cretary of State
if his name on the
expected.
In anhes on the McCormick estate
where the elder Orpet works was found
today two lumps of cyanide of potas
sium in a wooden container in which
poison was kept. No trace, however,
was found of the bottle from whicl:
Miss T.ambert took poison.
Mrs. Orpet reiterated her faith in her
son, holding that he was not responsible
for the girl's death.
Authorities in Doubt.
Waukegan, 111., Feb. 14 Whether the
death of Miss Marian Frances Lambert.
h?01 R'. w,as lal,,t . 1 suu:'uf.
caretakers ot adjoining millionaire es-
tates at Lake Forest, have been friends
! for years.
Miss Josephine Davis, chum of
dead girl, will testifv that the latter
planned suicide, according to Orpet's
parents.
Letters passing between Miss Lam
bert and the prisoner have revealed to
the authorities that for some month
they were involved in a love affair. For
a time, both wrote fervid letters. Thr
girl's continued that way, but tin
man's love seemed to coed after he
learned of her condition.
One letter tended to indicate
Orpet hnd reason to believe the girl's
condition hod improved.
Then lie told her of his love for an
other Miss Celestin Youker. a normal
school teacher, of Dekalb. On the day
before the IS year old high school girl's
body was found, Orpet admitted spinn
ing Miss Lambert nnd informing her of
nn engagement to the Dekalb teacher.
If the case N one of murder, official?
said there is a marked similarity to the
i Liniiell-liiehesoii case. , Hoth gir's were
choristers, and both feared disgrace.
i Likewise both died of mysterious pois
on. In Miss LiniirH's case it was
(shown that ihe took poison furnished
by the Itev. Itnlieson under the ginsn
i of on abortive medicine. Slip died noon
. afterward as she sat with her feet in a
(tub of hot water.
CANADIAN
Ma
O
FX
fit." -
i
1 1 -
This picture was taken during the fire in the Canadian parliament building
from the buililings in several places. The buildings of tho Canudian parliament
1 -J T1 ! . A.ll.!. .!.. It . ,
examples of Renaissance Gothic architecture in America.
GRAVE CONSEQUENCES
MAY FOLLOW ATTACK
ARMED MERCHANTMEN
Washington, Fob. 14 President Wil
son anil Secretary of (State Lansing are
in perfect accord over their policy in
the matter of the Teutonic plans to
make unwarned attacks on armed mer
chantmen, it was learned today. The
president considers that issues may
arise from the proposals of Gernuny
and Austria, fraught with possibilities
as grave, if not more grave than any
that have contronted the nation since
the war started. The attitude of the
government toward the Teutonic jn
nounceinent lias not been fully deterin
ind. Earlier reports that the president and
his premier had disagreed on the sub
ject were declared to have been un
founded. '
The administration has learned that
Berlin is sending her photographed
copies of British instructions to vessels
to "ram or run" when sighting sub
marines. Upon these orders, the cen
tral powers nold that they are putified
in their new course.
The German note, announcing the
new policy operative after February 29,
Shoots Both When They Try
to Escape Is Surrounded
by Posse
Willows, Cal., Feb. 14 Forcing War
ner C. Smith, a bookkeeper, and Theo
dore Jensen, a clerk, to leave their beds
ami go to the store in Germantown
where they were employed, a robber
stood guard over them today while they
opened a safe and then killed .Smith
and wounded Jensen as they sought to
escape.
The robber is now surrounded in a
eucalyptus grovo a mile sfpiare, while
a posse is narrowing the ring around
him. Sheriff Bailey heads the group.
Kveryone is armed and has orders to
get the man dead or alive.
The killing of Kmith occurred I'j
miles from Oermanlown on the South
ern Pacific tracks. After he ami Jen
sen hail succeeded only partially in get
ting into the Bafe, the robber inarched
them down tho railroad. Tiiey sought
to escape. As they ran, the robber
fired, killing Smith with a bullet
through his chest, and partially crip
pling Jensen with another in the should
er. !
Smith, 34 years old, worked in the
Rochdale store at (lermantown. Karly
today the robber pried his way into
Jensen's home, where Smith boaidcd.
Flashing a searchlight on each man sep
arately, he commanded them to be
quiet. Cnilcr pain of death, the baml;t
ordered them to precede him to the
store. They obeyed. The two men
lined up in single file while the robber
followed with his revolver drawn,
Smith fumbled with the combination
and finally got the outer door open, but
! could not open the inside door.
1 The holdup man ugain line. I them up
jfor another march.
I Stumbling through the darkness, tiie
I party mndo its way down the Southern
1 J la t- i lie track. A mile mid a half be
PARLIAMENT BUILDINGS"ON FIRE7
T 1
1
does not distinguish between passenger
and freight mcr-'jnt, and declared
that both will be stink without warning
if they are armed.
The Austrian aanouncement has also
reached here and will bo turned over to
President Wilson with the Berlin no
tice. Both will be made public tomor
row. It is admitted that if this govern
ment takes the German view, the state
department must go beyond the mere
restriction of entry of such armed ships
into American ports. Moreover, a simple
warning to American citizens to keep
off such vessels would not relieve the
government of responsibility for citizns
who disregarded tho warning. Probably
the administration must refuse to grant
passports to citizens desiring to travel
on armed ships.
The allies replies to Lansing's pro
posals for disarming merchantmen are
expected to arrive in a day or two.
Should a crisis develop over the situ
ation, it is expected to arise very soon,
as the new rules go into effect next
month.
yond town, Smith mado a break. Jen
sen followed. The robber popped at
them several times. One bullet brought
Smith down while another wounded
Jensen.
Apparently believing he had killed
both men, the masked mnn fled.
Jensen, though suffering from the
wound in his shoulder, made his way up
the track, flagged an oncoming train,
and had the crew remove Smith s tiodv.
The alarm was then spread and Sheriff
.1. A. Bailey with a group of deputies
and volunteers took up the mint.
Bv dav break they had the eucalyptus
grove surrounded, and declared the
masked man was inside. Their ranks
were increased as the forenoon wore on
and the cordon drew in on the grove.
May Name Garrison's
Successor Tonight
Washington, Feb. 14. The cxjiecta
tion that President Wilson would an
nounce Secretary of War Garrison's
successor todav was upset when upon
his return to the White House, it be
came known that the announcement
may be deferred for several days.
Secretary of Agriculture Houston,
Secretary of the Interior Lane and Ma
jor General Geothnls, governor of the
canal zone, continued to be named BR
the favorites in specnation here.
The White House intimated that the
choice would be made known today, and
it is obviously necessary for the presi
dent to have a clear field for considera
tion of the new issues arising from the
central powers' announcement that they
will make unwarned attacks on armed
merchantmen. Secretary of Stntn Lans
ing is prepared to present tentative
views on this problem,
A second factor is thnt the president
desires to have the appointment out of
the way as he expects to reccivo tier
manv's final note this week.
CAT SAVED HIS LIFE.
i
! Portland, fir., Feb. 1 4. A est saved
the life of Malliew Putnin, when his
I house caught fire early Kundnv morn-
l ing. When the flumes began to en
velop Putnin 's bcdn"m the cat leaped
upon the bed. scri'i-iiing him in the
face and awakening him juft in time to
I i.;,.,...if
f
at Ottawa. Smoko is seen issuing
were known to be the most 'splendid
, 1
.iU i !
LI
BY
Keynote Was Harmony and
United and-Enthused
Republcan Party
While the banquet given at the Hotel
Marion Saturday evening by the Sa
lem Republican club was in honor of
Lincoln's birthday, most of the speak
ers present pointed to the lesson of a
united party that was drawn by Lin
coln's life. "Let ns stand for a united
republican party," was the keynoto of
the evening and some of Marion coun
ty's ablest orators delivered short
speeches advocating harmony. The af
fair was a political meeting tor all in
tents pud purposes but the memory and
honor of Lincoln was uppermost in the
minds of the diners and as Mrs. Edith
Tozier Weatherred well said, tho repub
licans had no mortgage on the birth
right of Lincoln as he was a man too
great to be confined by strictly party
lines and was essentially a man of the
people.
Seymour Jones presided as toast
master and introduced the speakers und
Judge 1'. H. D'Arcy opened the. pro
gram with a speech which was limited
to a tribute to Lincoln anil the flag.
Max Gehlhar was official time keeper
and held the speakers to the five minute
limit with a merciless hand on the bell,
nnd this was probably the only suc
cessful effort to curb pent up political
tr under that has ever been accomplish
ed in this county.
The neat tribute to Lincoln paid by
Fir n It Davcy concluded with:
"His pity for the woes of his country
si d her people was bounded not by the
dividing lines of bloody conflict, but
embraced every faction of tho torn na
tion. "Kvery down-trodden human being
had in him a champion.
"Kvery sufferer had in him a help
ful sympathizer.
"Kvery grief-laden home and fire
side had in him a responsive comfort
er. F. O. Dcckcbach said that the repub
licans of Mjtrion county could pay no
greater honor to Lincoln's memory than
by standing for a united and enthused
republican Oregon. Supreme Court
Justice George II. Burnett said that
Lincoln was a friend of the poor and
matchless among forty million as a
leader in troublous times and ended
with the wish that they had a Lincoln
now in this critical hour.
('. ('. Kuney represented the fl. A. II.
and George I'abncr Putnam, private sec
retary of Governor Withyconibe, rep
resented the state executive at the ban
quet. Dana II. Allen spoke of the hu
man side of Lincoln and A. M. La Toi
lette, who cast his first vote for Abra
ham Lincoln, declined to expostulate
further as he said he saw many demo
crats present.
A letter was rend from f. P. Bishop
in which lie stated that, he favored re
publican senators and representatives
in the I uitcd States congress. Secre
tary of State Olcott sent his regrets ns
he was unable to be present at the ban
quet. The first woman speaker was Mrs.
Kdyth Tozier Wentherred who begin
by raying that she believed in prepared
ness and should have like, I a chance to
prepare a speech, but she continued:
"Being a woman t hnvo never hnd
tiie lockjaw. But let me say that the
republicans have no mortgage on the
(CoBtiuuod on Pais Three.)
FRENCH CRUISER SUNK;
BUT ONE OF CREW SAVED
War Ship Charner Torpedoed by German Submarine Of
Syrian Coast, Goes Down With 374 of Her Crew
Germans Attacking Fiercely On Western Front-Bulgar
Troops Trying to Head Oif Italians-Rumania Ready
to Join Allies Germans Claim Big Gains
Paris, Feb. 14. Only one member of the crew of. 375
on the French cruiser Admiral Charner has been rescued,
said dispatches today confirming the reported sinking of
that ship near the Syrian coast.
The Charner was sunk off Syria by a German sub
marine said the message.
The ministry of marine yesterday announced "fears'
for the Charner, saying nothing had been heard from
her since February 8 when a German telegram reported
that a submarine sank a French warship.
She had been doing patrol duty off the Syrian coast.
The Admiral Charner, a 4680 ton vessel, carried a
crew of 375 and an armament of two 7.6 inch turrent
guns, six 5.5 inch guns; four nine pounders, four three
pounders, six one pounders and four torpedo tubes.
London, Feb. 14. Hammering tho
French lines south of Saint Murie, the
Hermans are strenuously attempting to
drive in a human wedge In the hope of
bending back the whole French front
in the Champagne. Tho attack thus far
has been successful, according to Ber
lin dispatches, more thiin offsetting the
French advance northwest of Massiges.
Fighting in the Champagne is more
serious than anything staged there since
the September" offensive of the allies.
Indeed, the present offensive much re
seivbles the earlier campaign.
Both Berlin and Pnris indicated there
has been tremendous slaughter which
has, however, caused no important
changes in the general situation in
either the Champagne or Artois. The
casualties in the fortnight Si "nib
bling" at the lines are believed already
to have mounted to between 75,000 and
100,000.
Take and, Betake Trenches.
Paris, Feb. 14. German soldiers cap
tured 200 yards of French trenches
east of Seppois in upper Alsace, it was
officially admitted today, but the
French regained most of tho ground
through counter attacks.
Before tho Germans could dig them
selves in, they were driven off.
Yesterduy afternoon the French cap
tured several German trenches, at Frise,
after which the Germans counter at
tacked. Nearly a whole German com
pany was killed, only 70 remaining be
hind as prisoners. The stntemcnt said
the German losses were considerable.
Tho communique indicated no impor
tant changes in the Champagne or in
the region north of Arras where the
armies have been struggling for two
days.
Rumania Ready to Tight.
Paris, Feb. 14. Humania has com
pleted her mobilization, and her de
fenses of the Carpathian nnd Panuhian
frontiers nre finished, it was officially
stated today.
She now has close to full war strength
rcadv for any step, nnd it is freely
predicted thnt she may join the all
almost any time.
Airshlo in Trouble.
London. Feb. 14. The Zeppelin 1,-20,
sister uirshln to the L-10 destroyed re
cently in the North sea, was reported
in Copenhagen messages today to have
been in distress off the west coast of
Denmark yesterday. Her engines were
said to be working irregularly, while
another report said she was drifting in
the North sea.
To Head Off Italians.
Sofia, via Amsterdam, Feb. 14. Bul
gor troops occupied Klbnssnn. Albania,
on Saturday and are now heading west
ward to join the Austrian in cutting
off the retreat of the Italians from the
port, of Durn 7.7.0.
The inhabitants of F.l.assnn warmly
welcomed the invnders said nn official
statement today.
Now the Italians nnd Albanians face
the dniurer of envelopment, unless they
retreat from Purnzr.o.
Saturday's Vienna official statement
said the Italians, clashing with thn Aus-trian-s
for the first time, had attack
ed them west of Tirann, indicating
that they intend to make a stand at
Duraz.o.
Brltlah Cruiser Sunk.
London, Feb. I t. The British cruiser
Arethusn, which has figured in some of
tho most thrilling exploits of the war,
has been mined off the east coast. The
admiralty feared today that she is a
total wreck. Ten of her crew were
lost.
Bombs Kill Six.
Home, Feb. 14. Austrian neroplnnes
threw bombs nn Milan lust night.
Six persons wore killed, according to
dispatches.
Milan, on ancient city, is the second!
largest in Italy. It has many beauti
ful buildings and contains a number
of the rare works of the old Italian art
masters.
To Have 5,000 at Front
Vancouver, B. C, Feb. 14. Canada is
to have on the' firing line in, Flunder
a full brigade of 5,000 "American
born." Sir Sam Hughes, K. C. B. min
ister of militia, has authorized Major
C. Seymour Bullock, late of New York,
now of the 97th battalion, American le
gion stationed at tho exhibition rnmp
in Toronto to complete plans for a !)-minion-wide
campaign for mcu of Am
erican birth or parentage to join the
Canadian army.
With the viow of facilitating speedy
enlistment from all parts of the doioin
ian, Sir Sam Hughes has orderedl tlw
military authorities to open recruiting
offices in Vancouver, Cnlgnry, Saska
toon, Winnipeg, Fort Willinm and To
ronto, Montreal, Quebec, St. John and
Huli fax.
It is expected thnt over 10.000 Ameri
can born will be fully equipped and
trained for active service in October or
November.
Germans Claim Big Gain,
London, Feb. 14 Claiming a gain not
surpassed except once since the ereat
battle of the Mnrne. the Berlin official
statement today said the Teutons cap
tured nearly a mile of French trenebe
In the Chnmpngne and 400 yards in tb
Vosges. The only greater success re
corded was in the British defeat at
Ypres in May.
The Germans utormed 700 yards nf
trenches northwest of Tahure where on
Saturday night they reported taking or
700 ynrds. This carried them to th
flounin Somme Py highway, tho scene of
bloody strife during the allies Septem
ber offensive.
The statement .claimed that seren
French officers nnd 300 men were made?
prisoners in the Champagne yesterday.
WAR. DOINGS OF A DAT
Germans claimed capture of
neirly a mile of trenches in the
Champagne, with successes else
where. fyiris admitted Teuton gains
in tipper Alsace but claimed
they were nullified by counter
attacks.
Bulgarians captured Klbossun,
Albania,
French cruiser Admiral ( h lin
er reported lost with .'174 men,
British cruiser Arthusa mined
probablv totally wrecked,
liumniiia completed her mobili
zation. Zeppelin L-20 rejMirted in dis
tress off the west Denmark
coast.
Austrian birdmen killed six
in raid on Milan.
THE WEATHER
4i
Oregon: Tonight
and Tuesday oc
casional rain west
und fair oast por
tion; and souther
ly winds.
(TuTRflDE THI?
