B 'K HB .H. 'jM. .rtBk b tf. u '"B B B k. kH b ., ,i . jH
I B I 'H H V 1 I Hr 'I Jl ,l BH m B' H I Br 1
v I Vol. 27 SALT LAKE CITY, 'UTAH, SEPTEMBER 16, 1916 - No.H4 I
B
B The Republican 'Record
IN his acceptance speech President Wilson had
t- the assurance to give his version of why the
-H Republican party was ousted from power, in the
e K cheekiest paragraph of his speech.
H But it naturally awakens the thought of why
mm the Republican party ever arose to power and
B what its record has been. It is the successor of
B the old Whig party. It has controlled the gov-
'B ernment since '61 with the exception of the last
B term of Mr. Gleveland and the present term of
H Mr. Wilson. What have been somesof'the tri-
B umphs in the interests of the people? We leave
B 'out all reference to the Civil war, for that' was
B sectional, except to say that it steadied the coun-
B try through that might upheaval to a port of
B safety and peace.
B But it brought in the free school system. It
B' established the homestead law for the men who
B changed the frontier to an empire of 'enlighten-
H ment and progress.
8 It caused the building of the first transcon-
,B tinental railroads.
IB It was the parent of the eight-hour flay 'for
IB f 4 company labor.
jm V ' It exacted the first laws to govern child idbor
B in great industrial concerns. 'It established, the
J$mi protective tariff to encourage skilled labor; to
jE make places for millions of employes; to supply
Br. a market at home for home products, and' to' keep
B- in our midst the money from our mines and
B trade balances. It established governmental
B bureaus for commerce and agriculture, and caused
B the founding of agricultural colleges in the sev-
eral states. It extended great help to secure
V Uhe utilizing of the waters in the arid regions
M of the republic for irrigation and for the supply
B iiig of power to needed industrial plants.
M It tried to establish a most needed merchant
m, marine but was always baffled by the solid vote
of the opposition and a few votes in its own party
B "by men who never should have had transporta
m "tion to Washington. It compelled justice to our
B country from all foreign powers.
B , ' "Under its rule the republic was transformed
m ' and fifteen new states were rounded into form.
n It' obtained and developed the empire of Alaska,
(ft 'and 'has so changed the status of the nation that
ft from being so poor and weak that its credit
fc S 'was' rated the safhe as that of Spain and Turkey,
mL H 'becaVne in fifty years a world power in the
'B very forefront of the nation.
' And it is fair to say that almost every measure
, that it established was not through the help but
I ' , -against the bitter opposition of the -party now In
' '"pbwer.
M , It was able to receive and assimilate twenty
m millions of foreigners and was able to do this by
finding for the comers profitable places in 'which
,m to work.
R And save in passing some financial legisla
te tion, mast of which was already outlined by their
b predecessors, what has been the part the party
n which Mr. Wilson leads, has played? The one
If thing which Mr. Wilson claims as one of the
IjjL most conspicuous of its achievements is the re
jL . viBion of the tariff. Was' that a new inspiration
If,' of'the'pafty in power? Or was it not'in'fact
il' the exhuming f fom ' the 'grave of ' the dea'd con-
I A
i
t-i,JL. i , ., . .....
federacy the plank in its .constitution, which was
to have made the confederacy, had it succee'ded,
more free trade than is England today?
1When President Wilson claims that his party -now
embodies the patriotism, the intelligence "and
the spirit of progress of the nation, he trenches ,
on dangerous grounds.
If It was a 'poker garne pebple would "say he
was bluffing on 'two duces and that "he hfust'be
shaking 'in his 'boots, lest 'he be called.
So Abject ASurrencier
jTN 1909 Professor Woodrow Wilson addressed
the graduating class of Princeton university
and in the course of his speech said:
You knew what the usual standard of the em
ployee is in oir day. It is to give as little as he
may for his wages. Labor is standardized by the
trade union and this is the standard to which it
is made to conform. No one is suffered to -do
more than the average workingman can 'do; in
some trades and handicrafts no one is suffered to
do more than-ythe least skilfull of his fellows can
do within the hours allotted to a day's labor, and
no one may work out of hours at all or volunteer
anything beyond the minimum.
I need not point out how economically dis
astrous such a regulation of labor' is. It is so un
profitable to the employer that in some trades it
will presently not be -worth his while to attempt
anything at all. He had better stop altogether
than operate at an inevitable and invariable loss.
The labor of America is rapidly becoming un
profitable under its present regulation by those
who have determined to reduce it to a minimum.
Our economic supremacy may be lost because
the country grows rnore and more full of unprofit
able servants.
Two weeks ago Professor Wilson had become
president of the United States and a1 candidate, for
re-election. In a more formal statement than the
one above he gave his views publicity in the 'fol
lowing: "It seemed to me, in considering the subject
matter of the controversy, that the whole spirit
of the 'time and the preponderant evidence of re
cent economic experience spoke for, the lelgni
hour day. It has been adjudged by the thought
and experience of recent years a thing upon which
society is'justir Vin insisting as in the interest
of health, efffc jiy, contentment, and 'a general
increase of ecd omic vigor."
Moreover, liis statement was made as a jus
tification for making an abject surrender to the
demand of four r men representing some labor
unions, and coupled with the demand was a threat
that if the demand was not complied with within
five days they would give the order which would
paralyze the transportation systems of the United
States, bring great losses to the business men and
great distress to the poor of all the millions who
make it possible for railroads to run their trains
and to pay their employes better wages jthan are
paid for the same work-anywhere -else the world
around, and better wages than the same men
could' obtain in any other field of labor in any
country, including our own, on earth.
What has change'd the opinion 6rbur"pfesident
in seven years? And had he kept the pledge
made in the platform on which' he was"elected, and
refused to' be n candidate this year wouldlie have
made the statement of two weeks 'ago, and 'then
have driven the measure "of his surrender "through
'congress, or would he have taken thV gfound that
"Mr. Hughes takes when lie declafesth'at'he would
never surrender 'to such a dehiah'd, 'btit 'would H
"go down to defeat rather 'than yidld bne'Jdt'br H
title of the 'principle of investigation in "atiVance H
Of legislation? H
The matter has now assumed 'a 'form wliich H
makes it a direct test of the manhood anlTwom-
anhood of the United States, for if our 'govern-
ment cftn be made to surrender abjectly to the H
demands of any organization within and under it, M
we are not three degrees removed from anarchy M
and Mexican lawlesness. M
Voters will bear in mind that this has become M
the supreme question of the campaign. M
So vital is it that some of the strongest mon M
in congress of Mr. Wilson's own party recoile'd M
before it and refused to vote for Mr. Wilson's sur- M
render. M
No wonder Mr. Gompers is wearing out -his M
leather lungs because of the joy of his leather ft
brains that a section of organized labor, through M
its vicious representatives, have freightene'd -.or M
cajoled the president of the United States not M
only to make an abject surrender to its demand, M
but have further compelled him to drive their tie- M
mand through congress. M
The Great Republic was never 'before "so 'hu- ; M
miliated. f M
The Result IrTMaine H
AS was expected generally, we think, Maine M
'has gone Republican. With a little change M
the old saying may be repeated, "Maine Went'hell- M
bent for Blaine." H
It will have some effect on the national vdte M
in November, but Maine is no longer 'a 'pivotal H
state, indeed it has nut been since 180. Invtltd.t M
year Maine revised itself. In that year the cry: M
''Maine went hell-bent for Blaine," 'ha'd 'cease'd. M
The plumed knight came 'down from there dls- M
comf itte'd and demoralized. The stalwarts ' h'a'd M
refused to vote and thus gave 'the 'victory vtothe M
opposition. M
When the Republican national convention met fl
that year, the 'stalwarts led by Roscoe Conkling H
were fpr U. S. Grant. The opposition in the con- H
vention tried by cat-calls and hisses to pr"eveii H
Conkling from making the nominating speech ft
Grant, but he beat them down by the sheer force ;
of his masterful intellect, pluck and skill as a 'H
platform orator. M
Garfield was there ostensibly to support John tM
Sherman and to make the nominating speech 'for jH
him. Ho made the speech, a magnificent one,
but on the first ballot there was one vote for
James A. Garfield. It was the same way on the H
second and third ballots. Then inquiries were
made and it was found that the vole was that of
a Campbellite preacher from Pennsylvania. 'When U
a stalwart whom wo all knew heard that vhe 'ex- H
claimed: "We are gone. Garfield will be notnin-
ate'd." Arid he was. Blair e was his warm tfar- ,
sonal friend. John Sherman was never 'mbre ('
his warm friend. H
Much ill-feeling was engendered in the con-
vention and Conkling and his friends went' home
in a most savage mood. This Ill-feeling was 'in
the air of oil northern states, and 'Maine w6nt
Democratic despite the utmost efforts of'the party
