NIGHT
EXTRA
TOtltnj
iMthntx
NIGHT
EXTRA
)JD. HI.-NO. 3
PHILADELPHIA, SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 191G
CoMtteni, Kit, srna Pcsuo Liixm Courikt
JES SMASH WAY TOWARD
BULGARS' MACEDONIAN BASE;
GERMANS WIN IN DOBRUDJA
itente Forces Occupy Fiorina, in Greece,
as Jtsuigars wuit; monasnr, Re
ports Say British Cross
Struma River
..Rumanians Beaten Along Danube English Make
VTMtf flairi nn Snmmr "FVenrOi f!rnjh P.niinfrnf
ft b . - w
tacks Italians Push Advance on Isonzo in
Campaign Against Trieste
3 Fresh successes for the Allies in the Balkans and on the Somme front
l reported jtoday. The Scrbs navc struck another sevcro blow at the Bul-
.Huw on the western cna ot ino Macedonian iromier, and the Bulgarians
t repotied in flight. A dispatch from Salonica states that the Bulgarians
evacuated Fiorina and have begun the evacuation of Monastir, their base
n'the Macedonian front. French and Russian troops arc reported to have
feMdv entered Fiorina.
H'- British troops have crossed the Struma River and arc attacking the Bul-
fttriftM at Dzamtmnh, Jtvomaja ana villages aiong tne upper ana lower uuacii,
j yea otnclnliy announceu at ouiuiutu wuuj. j uenvy gun uuci is in progress
Lnc. the Doiran front. Russian troops co-operating with the French and
EiKMsns have captured four villages from the Bulgars.
v On the northern uniKan front, nowevcr, wnere tne iiumantan war umco
fcrday admitted a retirement, the. situation docs not appear to be aa bright
'the Allies. Berlin reports that the Germans under von Mackcnsen have
n a dtcialve victory over the Russians and Rumanians in the Dobrudjn district. J
fnri of the victory is contained in a telegram sent by Emperor William to
impress. A dispatch from Sofia states that efforts of tho Rumanians to
f the DanubO lor an invasion 01 DuicuriH were lrusiraiea.
'"British trooDS have advanced COO yards north of Fourcaux Wood in tho
fetinuation of their Somme offensive, General Haig reported today. Cour-
itttc, Martinpuich and Flers, villagea comprising parts of the defenses of
. . f t ! T)aiinVe. Itnnrla FPt T).!i!.l. !. il..u tftn
ke-rt ridge, are now nrmiy jn mimu "" " jjuubu uvu himh uuu
re Germans, making the total of prisoners officially reported captured 2800.
Iseath of he Somme, on the Fiench sec-
"CALLING THE BULL MOOSE"
illnffff lift fiT jiMs wKllilirMr h 'n JkdH f ' 5 C 4 Lmi2.IHMff
InUSEftujHl iHkiiikHkBQHKltrN?SHfclll"
I w viETAiEkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkHCK3iHiiikflkkiKk1kBvw
iiKflBBiSlV3SBMBBlf?'iaSBBBlBBHBlHvff7l i'
iHMBlkVaVaVaVaVaVaVMBVaVaVaVaVaVaVaVMtkMpi ''J'-4WMi.'.a'
WBiBkWBkWBkWBkWBBkWBBkWBkWBkWBkWBkVK 1 if iv.sVaBBlBai
Thomas Martindalc, Philadelphia sportsman, merchant, lecturer and
author, who died Wednesday night while on a hunting trip in the wilds
of British Columbia, is seen lying in wait for tho heard to answer the
call of the moose as given by the guide. The photograph was taken on
one of Mr. Martindnle's many visits to his favorite haunts in Maine.
Jjof'the theater of operations, German
i....ttorl were renulaed. The French
t eewoUdatlnr their new position In
atlon lor a new iiiruui b"""
and leronne. The fall of the two
i f Tnrtti.d goon-
t Italians are again on the offensive
(be entire Jsonzo front In a resump-
h drive on Trieste, Rome dispatches
fckt the Austrian losses In the re-
htloc are estimated at 10,000 in
ousdet--anpriaoners.
3AMAN LOSSES REPORTED
tOBMOUS; HEAVY ARTILLERY
DUEL ON DOIRAN FRONT
SA.LONICA, Sept. 1.
orlous Serbian troops are driving the
tted Bulrars in rtlsoraerly refreat back
rd the Berbo-Greelc frontier in the dl-
len of the Serbian town of Monastir,
I a Serbian official statement issued here
J.
iThe Bulgarian losses are enormous, one
nitnt losing- 1500 .men. The Bulbars
commanded by General Boyandwelff.
3n Serbs have taken many prisoners and
pH captured booty includes twenty-nine
(ma and large quantities of war material.
t British troops have crossed the Hirer
lltruma and are attacking- the Bulgarians
IM Siamlmah, IComaia and villages along
vpper and lower Gudell, It was offl-
EallT announced todai'. Artillery duels are
fag along the Dolrjin front.
v9Sr "'
' WNDON, Sept. 16 A Salonica dispatch"
o Jhe Central Newa states that French and
liij troops entered Fiorina last night.
fwteJart. troops have Joined the Serbs
French on the Allies' left nlhg in the
an ana have driven the Bulgars from
rqreek villages.
thns dispatches reported today Jhat,
tr ,tbe. Bulgars evacuated the town of
. on the advance of the French, the
ns took up the pursuit and drovo
'retreating enemy from. SJagarotlsanl,
anl, Vlotal and BIkliehta, Two
i Bulgarian stragglers were brought
My the Russians, The main body of
vsanan troops la retreating northward
WTtlfled TmHltlnna tnttth.nf T..V. Vnir
Bucharest dispatches today admitted the
'wni or Jlusso-uumanlan roops In
-. yvefu Huramn oeiore me uerman
far advance. The retirement was neces-
r strategic reasons, the advance of
i enemy's wings threatening the envelop-
ffc. -n "nw-ui4lBlHit VCIIlCla
to Jtumanlana are making rapid prog-
i irnnsyttania and are now engaged
jwarlng the Austriana from the region
. iiermannstadt,
LOMB, SepL , Monastir, the base of
PiZr I'"" ,rm" ,n w Macedonia,
rtd to have been evacuated by the
HUGHES TO SWEEP
NATION, PREDICTS
SENATOR PENROSE
Will Carry Every Northern
State, He Declares in
Collegeville Speech
ADMINISTRATION FAILURE
WMANS ADMIT LOSSES
ON SOMME; REPORT VICTORY
IN OBRIJDJA FIGHTING
una, m tm
i We Germafi -yvar OIlce today admitted
Vis
CUauea b Pare Two, Celuma Twe
THE WEATHER
J FORECAST
PW Philadelphia and vioMtyFdir
m vunaay; coow tonight,
yhvut about fiftV degree; mod-
U Uulla.1.. -..'J-
"fcAWAWfr BIVKK TIBK CMANCUkM
.Wp w.
t a.B.
1 Ur.', a. Jn.M
UU..11U1 . i
. f -- "W W.B..
) At BACH HDK
10' I
1
"an
mw
TTTT?
High Spots in Speech
of Senator Penrose
M
R. HUGHES will carry every
State north of the Mason and
iDixon line and has hopeful prospects
in other States in the South and
Southwest.
Under the diplomacy of the Wil
son Administration we aro disliked,
if not hated, by the people of every
civilized nation of the world. When
the Industrial and commercial war
begins we will receive scant sym
pathy. Democratic statesmanship utterly
hna failed to make adequate pro
visions for the crisis which will con
front us.
Mr. Hughes is the man of the
hour. Ho has inspired the Amer
ican people with entire confidence
in his aballty.
TH0S.MARTINDALE,
NOTED SPORTSMAN,
DIES IN BEAR HUNT
Crafty Big Game Trapper,
Author and Successful
Merchant
SUCCUMBS IN CANADA
Bu a Staff OorTMfOHdint
COLLEGEVILLE, Pa, Sept. 1. The
prediction that Charles Evans Hughes will
carry every State north of tho Mason and
Dixon line was made by United States
Senator Boles Penrose In a stirring address
today before more than 1000 Republicans
from Montgomery and adjaoent counties
in an enthusiastic rally at Collegeville. The
Senator's forecast of a Hughes sweep was
greeted with a storm of applause.
Amid almost continuous applause, Pen
rose dealt blow after blow at the Demo
cratic administration, characterising It as
Incompetent and extravagant He said that
the Wilson policies had brought down tha
hatred of all civilised nations of, tha world
upon tha United States. Because ot these
policies, he asserted that America would
receive scant sympathy and consideration
in the fierce commercial war which he said
was bound to come at the close of the strife
In Europe. lie said he was certain that the
American people were thoroughly awake to
these facta and would get rid of the Wilson
administration.
PENROSE PREDICTS HUOIIBS SWEEP
The Senator said in parti
"It la dally becoming more and more evi
dent that the "American people have made
up their minds to get rid of the Wilson
Administration. It may be Jhat there is
not aa mueh publio Intereat aroused openly
in tho present presidential campaign as
there has been la preceding ones, when the
country was wrpught up to a, high pitch
of Intereat In tha issue Involved and little
else was talked about from one end of the
land to the other.
"In the present campaign the oondtlona
are peoullr 'n tbat we ttr in th midst of
world-wide eve, perhaps of weater mag.
nltude than any that have previously o-
a I t.uinrv' Henoe. it ia natural 'that
the b the newepapere devoted to the
eampaJ h been UmHed awl ki patent
at ynWf' frtsiM"'' M Pre
iMMt tmUm !
n , riw
Thomaa Martlndale, widely known Phila
delphia sportsman, merchant, lecturer and
author, died Wednesday night In tho wilds
of northern British Columbia, according
to word received here today. The body
Is being brought over the trail to Skagway
for shipment to his home In this city.
The cause of Mr. Martlndale's death
was not mentioned In the meager dis
patch which reached this city. The veteran
hunter was seventy years old, however, and
although for years he had been accustomed
to braving hardships and tests of weather
that would have daunted the courage of
youth, it is. supposed by some of his friends
that tho strain of his last hunting trip may
have been too great.
Mr. Martlndale, senior member ot the
Thomas Martlndale Company, Tenth and
Market streets, was o'ne of the organlxera
of the Poor Richard Club and of the Trades
League. He left for Alaska on July 11
wih Dr. W. Wayne Babcock, surgeon-ln-chiet
of the Samaritan Hospital, to hunt
bears.
The first Intimation of Mr. Martlndale's
Illness waa received at his 9fflce yesterday.
It came in the form of a telegram from Dr.
Babcock, and stated that Mr- Martlndale,
was suffering from a carbuncle and facial
erysipelas. The seriousness ot his condition
was not mentioned In the dispatch.
Word wis also received that Mr. Martln
dale's son, James, had left Detroit yester
day upon receipt of the news of bis father's
Illness.
It was said at Mr, Martlndale's office that
TINKER STARTS IN
FIRST GAME; ALEX
OPPOSES CHICAGO
Cub's Manager at Short and
Steve Yerkes Plays
Second Base '
CARTER FACES PHILLIES
rmcAoo
ZUr. 3b .
JseebMn. rf
.Mann. If
Habr. lb
Itminmi. ff
Klllott.
irrket. tb
Tinker,
toner, p
rnn.T,rr.s
lekcrt. rf
llsnrroft. an
mock. Sb J
Whlttd. If
f'rfivatb. rf
T.uiwru. Hi
Nlrhair. tb
uillrfrr. o
Alrxannrr. t
Continued en Tat Three Caiman Fenr
bprirr. if nrxnii'irr.
Uraplrra HarrUon and O'Dar,
By CHANDLER D. RICHTER
PHILLIES' BALL PARK, Sept. 16. Joe
Tinker pulled two startling surprises on the
fans In the first game of today's double
header when be went to shortstop and
placed the veteran Steve Terkes at second
base.
Tnker has played tn only two games this
season, both being after regulars had been
put out of the game, and the contests hnd
become .farces, while Yerkes was released
by both the Cubs and Prates earlier In the
season.
Terkes reported to the Cubs In poor con
dition and weighing closely to 200 pounds,
no Tinker passed him along to the Pirates,
who released him to Atlantic.
The Southern climate agreed with
Terkes and he played such sensational ball
that Tinker purchased him. He joined the
team today and was Immediately sent Into
the game.
Tinker also sent a youngster to right field,
M. Merwln Jacobson, who was turned over
to the Cubs along with Larry Doyle and
Hunter for Heine Zimmerman
The Cubs had been In a badly crippled
condition and they had further misfortune
today when Rowdy Elliott, the only
catcher tn shape to play, had his hand
split with a foul tip from Paskert's bat in
the first Inning. A youngster named O'Con
nor, picked up on the lots from Boston,
was sent behind the bat, while Arthur Wil
son, whose knee was badly Injured by a
foul tip in poston, Jumped from a box be
hind the Cuba' bench and went to the club
house to don his untforrn.
RAILROAD STOCKS J,EAP;
TRADING ON BIG SCALE
Advances of One Point and-M ore,
Accompanied by Reports of
Equipment and' Steel Orders
NEW YORK. Sept JO. Railroad shares
were the center of Interest In the trading
on the New York Stook. Exchange today,
the specialties and the war order stocks,
which have been enjoying, large advances
in the last few days, being relegated to
the background.
Gains in the railroad group ranged
around a point and more, some of this class
pf stotka being lifted to new high marks,
notably Union Pacific, which rose more than
two polnU. ''
There waa a flood of buying order in
the railroad shares, a veritable battle be
tween the bulls and bears' being In progress.
Ia 'aU,- more than 4(0,000 shares of stock
were traded In In the flret hour, and the
majority of this was In rails.
Many Issues made new high records,
among them being United States Steel com
mon, which sold up to 10I,H, a gain of 1
over the previous high reoord, and nearly
two points as compared with last night's
Western Unon passed Ita .11 01 reeerd,
selling at lOlKt The advance in the rati?
was aoeempanted by reports of bir Mlp
mant and sheet and steel orders. It was
said that the New York Central had "plaoed
orders for loooindtlvea running into millions
of dollars.
Two BraMM XilUd hy Train
taUMOMIK, V.. Mat, It tUk.ai W
n Mr '
mnaea. utue. PP'fi. wtnjnm wmt Mr
.ffgtr aemfja, ajsi fSka ajvlfeejt sjASassMr
TRAIN HITS AUTO; MAN
PEAD, ANOTHER DYING
Another Crash at Ogden's Cross
ing Just Below Wood
bury, N. J.
One man was Instantly killed and another
Injured so badly that his death la momen
tarily expected when an automobile In
which, they were riding was struck by a
freight train ot the West Jersey and Sea
shore Railroad at Ogden street crossing near
Woodbury, N J., this afternoon.
The dead man Is XouTs Knoth, twenty
eight, of Swedesboro, N, J., and the' In
jured man I Harold Cheyes, thirty-two,
of the same" place.
The men were placed In an automobile
and rushed to Cooper Hospital, Camden,
where Knoth was pronounced, dead. Cheyes
Is unconclous. Both received a fractured
skull and internal Injuries. The automobile
was wrecked.
It -la believed they miscalculated the
speed at which the freight train waa travel
ing and attempted to cross the track in
front of It Their automobile waa caught
by the cow catcher and hurled to one aide
of the road, pinning "both men beneath It,
Coroner Schroeder' took charge of Knoth'a
body and will conduet jn investigation.
Kins d Cadwna Jfetertaln Page
UDINB, Italy, Sept. l.-rhomas Nelson
Page, Amerrsaa Amfeaaaader; Captain Wvln
K. Ilettoerg; 54, rjeiena Commander
Charles RueeeJUTraln, rapc4(vely military
a nay! atteefce af the Hmbae, .have
(MM mr4Wf vturuimi w Xlmf Tie
maaaaasMML UMeaasAsat OaueraJ --
' ' '& "V. -JrWssjBeassjsa vsisssssv ) ejMBsjajBjni;
S2e?arr5.ir3
LATEST SPORTS
CHICAGO, IstG. 000000030 3 10 0
PHILLIES 01201200X 0 11 1
Carter and Elliot; Alexander and KUlefcr. Harrison and O'Day.
NATIONAL LEAGUE
CINCINNATI O O O O O 1 O
BROOKLYN, l3tg..1 O O 2 1 O O
chulz nnd Wlngo; Coombs nnd Miller.
r- - -ao'i .oo 1 oooo
NEW YORK, 1st c 2 1 O O O O 5
Nnmaux nnd W. vTngncr; Benton nnd McCarty.
0 2-3 lO 2
O X - 4 1 1 2
0 1-2 6 0
O - - 4 11 2
AXAWnrvR TA1CFS SCALP OF CUBS III FIRST FRVY
CHICAGO
, Zetdor, 2b
lacobsoR, rf .. . .
-t Ci
;f.
n a
I " 4 t 0
1 1 .; r, o
l i o 3 l
: l 3 o b
Cravath.rf t 1 1 1 0 0
. tenia, lb. .
Niclio." h . .
Killcfci, ....
Alcxandc. ') ..
0 0 13 2 o
1"2 0 1.0
0 1 I 0 0
0 112 0
r :i o .1 c
. 1 1 " 1 1
.012(0
'iann.U 0 13 0 0
Saicr, lb 0 18 0 0
Williams, cf 0 15 0 0
Elliott.c 0 0 0 0 0
Ycrkes,2b 1 2 3 2 0
Tinker, ss 0 1 2 ? o
Cartcr,p... 0 0 0 2 0
.Lavender, p.'. ...... 1 0 0 0 0
Wilson, c 0 2 110
Totttls
G.l
. j
Totals 3
.0
"4 8 0
'".' '
t..
BRUMBAUGH TO NAME ELECTION 0FFJCERS FOR TROOPS
HAItRISBURG, Sept. 10. Governor Uiumbaugh within a few
daya will niipotnt commtssloncis to take tho votes of tho soldiers on
the, border, Seven hundred copies of the opinion of Attorney General,
Brown on tho methods to bo followed, in securing the votes o'fftho
guardsmcu wcie sent to Major General Clement today and a copy of
the pamphlet will bo plnccd lit the hands of ench commissioned officer.
'
LOCOMOTIVE ENGINEERS HOLD SECRET SESSION
IIARIUSBTJJIG, Sept. 16. At a conference of the legislative
committee of the locomotivo engineers here this morning Hobert
Fcirn, of PhUadlphla, was re-elected charman. A resolution was
passed thanking Grand Chief Warren S. Stone for his part in the
"settlement of Jhc thicatcnod railroad strike. Legislation to bo urged
nt the coining sessions was discussed inejeccret conference. The
j legislative piogrnm was not completed nnd was not made public.
CAUGHT, AFTER FOUR YEARS, AS EMBEZZLER
NEW YOIIK, Sept. 10. After a chase which led police over two
continents and lasted three years, George Brown, former treasurer of
the Havthoin Building nnd Loan Association, of Newark, N. J., was
arrested hero today charged with forgery and embezzlement, amount
ing to 9100,000. There aio fouiteeu indictments from the Essex
County, N. J. Grand Juiy standing against Brown.
PARALYSIS ON WANE IN TRENTON
THENTON, Sept. 10. Another decrease in the number of in
fantile paralysis cases nnd the absence of new centers of the con
tagion were reported to the State Department of Health this morn
ing. The total today was twenty-seven, the lowest for the week
HUGHES CLOSING UP SUMMER HOME
BIHDGEnAMPTON, N. Y Sept. 10. Charles E. Hughes, Re
publican presidential candidate, is today winding up his stay at
Brldgehampton, Tomorrow hc'wlll cay goodbye to his summer homo"
nnd. leave on his tour of the Mldweit.
'it " 1. ' .
.. , .,, f
NORRISTOWN'S EX-PR0TH0N0TARY TO PLEAD GUILTY
NOKRISTOWN, Pa., Sept. 16. Sylvester B. Drake, ex-pro-thonotary
of Montgomery County, has arranged to appear in curt
noxt "Wednesday raorAlngntef pleas of guilty to all charges 8lBst
him nnd accept wnteece. The farmer prothonotary is charge with
four offenses, namely, esibeMleniMtt from tin aowuty, perjury- is
making false efflelal returns, failure to waVe r4wnu and failure to
pay over eountr moatya eUUd, (
PRICE ONE CENT
sAm maloney
ex-ward boss,
trails "gang"
Nemesis of Organization in
Which He Was Once
Potent Force
ROUNDING UP PHANTOMS
eieB: ' li?im
Mr v iMsK
iHIIIIM v $ WVTl
SAMUEL G. MALONEY
The mystery surroundlne; the idtntlty ot
the powers behind the Investigation of Il
legal registration and votlnc In rh'.adel
phto, nnd how far these powers intend to
puih prosecutions, which has kept th rank
and (lie of the Republican Organization In
eery ward of this city on edge during the
last few days, was partly cleared tip today,
when It became known for ho drat tlm
just wnj Is obtaining the evidence.
The basis for the prosecution of Vara
and McNlchot leaders and henchmen whs
have been arrested, and for others for whom
warrants are now out, was obtained by a
corps of private detects es, working- under
the supervision of'samuel Q Maloney, for
mer Harbormaster ot the Tort of Phila
delphia, former police ofnclal, former lie
publican Organization City Committeeman,
and predecessor of former1 Magistrate
James IV Carey, ns Organization leader
of Ihe "Bloody Fifth Ward?' " "'
, -JUloney is acting manager of tits, Val
O'larrcll Detective Agency, with offlc
rn the Irt.il Estate Trust building: .Since
he parted from his Republican Organization
friends and gave up machine politics In
this city he has been Investigating in the
capacity ot detective political fraud and
corruption In New York, Quebec, Can.,'
Austin, Tex., ana omer places.
Maloney and his detectives were first
employed in the present Investigation by
Congressman John It. K. Scott Scott saja1
he will turn Maloney and tho other detec
tUes ntth the evidence they had unearthed
over to the Committee of Seventy, The
Seventy Is bringing tlio present prosecu
tions. Disclosure of the fact that Maloney was
In chargu of the present, probe also brolight s
to light today for (he first time that lit
was directly In. charge uf the famous Burns
Investigation of polecat fraud which was
made during the Blankenburc administra
tion and which figured so prominently dur
ing the last mayoralty campaign.
Maloney, who is a product of the Fifth
Ward, where -years ago he was a police
sergeant, then n constable, and later tn
Republican leader, said today' that h
didn't care who would be lilt by his inves
tigation. .
"I will make this Investigation stlclC
he said,
For ten years Maloney, who is a Repub.
lican, hasn't voted tn this city, ile sas
he is disgusted -with the methods cdpicd
by Organization, politicians to htlns about
the election of certain candidates and rather '
than vote for such candidates he won't
vote at all.
During the election ot 1S05 MaioneV was
arrested with other polltlslaiuj In the Fifth
Ward, but later discharged Maloney ad
mitted today that lie had been arrested
during the 1803 election, but Insisted that
the arrest was made without a warrant
and that he was charged with no offense,
Maloney for tha first time explained how
he came to lose his position as Harbor
master ot the port ot Philadelphia. Ha said '
he lost his position after Charles Macklii,
who was then a member of Select Coun
cil, from the Fifth Ward would pot Vote
for former Director of Publio Safety Clr
for president of Select Council.
. WONT HEDCIB, HB 8X78.
Maloney sat behind -his desk reading the
morning mall when a reporter for h
Evening "Usbosn called e him, ajr,
Maloney Is a heavily built i wtth a. short l
mustache and a florid cempteKfeii. r
"Yes, I am ffamuel O. Mileweyl bow U-.1
come down to business, and teH ns-weja
you aje after," he said. "If yon wtU lM
frank with flje I wlU be fraftkwHfe ysej
Mr, Maloney pifShed a button, A'atflMfk;
rapner appeared.
"Oo ahead ftd ftre k aa Wny awea
tiens aa y leae ad 1 w't teMtoe. m
Knawr evejjr qMaeWan with if WMliniUM1
lug tfcat aU 'ih aaWsraaad nwestlsHi
be' taln 4W 4wwrHtar ."
An4i ajf Xenoyanhere (
of a rater naaarimWe taUrvtew:
Rai1OIWltV-' V H aiie'ltamia
Q MaWftef. wha, In IMC. w the ltepua
jlaMi 4er U tfee iftfth Wmi
ytM. lULOKIor Yea, air.
Bipnrr1-""" ' " ""' ,n ;yfl
i, mwwwt ! w fn rm,j
1
."a
'.
