M a f obsevn the trend It 06-T ade bM tome Ws
Twurtag from the evening to o weinsme T"heHam"
the morning Papers A ar predtagastm s 4
by their observation. 'That Is on e
son why you Win And the latest NtO"roeofatM erI u
news, an Won am, Intent Down "aCh kfgeft I evIier eeyed by a
morning In The Herste.D mornit PW ashimgton.
NO. 3621. WA1 -FAI AD C00. WASHI NGTON.'D. Q. SATURDAY. SE MBER 16. 1916. ONE CET
NAVY SEEKS NEW
PROVING GROUND
Wrecking of Indian Head
-House Hastens Decision.
Rear Admiral Joseph Strauss, chief of
ordnance of the Navy Department, said
last night that the proving grounds for
the government's bi gun* soon will be
noved from Indian Heed, Md.
The Chnge has been considered for
more than a year, but the decision to seek
a new testing field for big projectiles was
precipitated when a sixteen-inch shell.
traveling at almost Incredible speed.
peased directly through the dwelling of
Mr. Mary Swann. several miles from the
grounds.
The government will retain the Indian
Head location for the testing of mnnar
guns and projectiles, but the sixteen-Inch
shens capable of penetrating the thick
eat of armor plate, will be tested at a
new site, where the danger of accidents
will be minimised.
'We have been consaidming this chance
for over a year., said Admiral Strauss.
"and while the new location has not been
selected. it will be chosen within a short
time."
It is probable that the new proving
grounds will be adjacent to the prospect
ive 31L.WO government armor plate
plant. The general board of the navy.
with Secretary Daniels, io now Inspect
Ing locations for this new Federal in
dustry, and when the selection is made,
the availability of the site for the new
proving grounds will be among the things
considered.
The activities of the Navy Department
gunners at Indian Head have resulted in
several minor accidents within the last
two years. and the difficulty of polliing
the property properly is another disad
vantage that has brought about the de
cision in favor of a new location. It
would take more than 600 men properly to
guard the Indian Head property from
spies or persons disposed to blow it up.
(;overnment )ff cials are greatly pleased
with the result of the test of the 16-Inch
projectile. thought it partially wrecked
the hote of the Swanns.
It was the first 16-inch gun ever lired
In the United States and the marksmen
underestimated its penetrating power.
The engine of death plowed through the
thickest of armor plate, through a large
sand bank. and then continued on its
course through the upier part of the
Swann house and fell in the yard after
spending its force. Mrs. Swann and her
children were in the kitchen and thus
escaped injury. Her husband, employed
at the provinc grounds, was one of the
crew that fired Aie monster run.
COMPROMISE OPPOSED
IN ARMOR PLANT fIIHT
Wa nor Site', b&asNqt R. iy_
for Switd to Alexandria.
We are standing by our guns. After
hearing all the arguments for the loca
Von of a government armor plate plant
in other communities. I am convinced
that none surpassed and few equalled the
arguments thmt Washington was able to
offer." said President P. T. Moran, of
thr Chamber of Commerce. last night.
Prrsid-nt Moran said the local com
mittee would not compromise and urge
4 ie In A:xandria until it was certain
that th-rr was no possibility of the ais
t:, t b-,ing awarded the 311.00.00 plant.
Iharober of Commerce officials have
r*'elved scores of letters indorsing their
rZht for the location of the plant here.
and amon these are communications
f-orn mavors and officials of cities who
I'- ieve the new industry should be near
the seat of the national government.
Th General Board of the Navy will
i..ect the District site at Buzzards
Pont with a view to learning the actual
water depth there and along the forty
--acre ater front location offered by
S-cretary Daniels plans to divide the
nir into zones, and have the prin
in-pected.
Ion was made to the Navy De
m.zht he possible to
purchase the plant of the Washington
- Company. at Gies
' -: manufacture of armor
r-I No formal offer was made, how
P-r. and it was not indicated what
consideration would be given the sugges
tion.
THREE MORE SHIPS GO
DOWN, 47 LOSING LIVES
481B the Internatienel NewS Service.)
London. Sept. 15.-Lloyds this after
noon announced the sinking of three
sh p5 with a loss of at least forty
seven lives.
The official announcement declared
that the steamer Genoa. with her crew
of forty-seven, had gone down. No ship
by that name is listed In the Shipping
Register. However, there is an Ital
Ian steamer called Genova. 3,463 tons.
The Belgian boat Marco. 1.433 tons,
was sunk. Her crew waf saved.
The Norwegian steamer Elizabeth.
2.1554 tons, was the third boat. Four
of her crew were landed. The report
did not state what happened to the
othe rs.
IM. RAOUL WINS DIVORCE.
Legal Battle, Involving Former
Wife of Uptom Siaelair, Edas.
Augusta. Ga., Sept. Il--The maritaj
diffculties of the Sinclair and Raoul fam
Illes, which have smoldered In Georgia
courts for many months, were cleared
away today when the Superior Court
granted a divorce with alimony to Mrs.
Winifred Raoul, the pretty 3-year-old
wife of William tGreen Raoul, wealthy
Socialist
Mrs. Raoul named Mrs. Meta Fuller
Sinclair. divorced wife of tJyton Sin
elair, the author, as co-respondent. Mrs.
Raoul was twenty years younger than her
husband.
URITISH COLUNRIA "DRY."
sc... 3=.fre As.. Wi.. letee,,
in Eleettom.
Vancouver, B. C.. Sept. 1l., recetany
complete returns from yeeedai'. else.
tion assuree the -ad--i of urebaufen
andwaonan eufrags in iish Ceas..aa
TheLberale worn an overwb-aen vie
tory, eand will control the neat lsim-,
ture, U toi M.
trip. Bltior, and Oho 7:55 a, n.
U. . Supu-Dreadmought
to Be Ready Octobw 15
(By Internatiemal News sesytee)
New York. Dept. 1&.-Although
the super-Dreadnought Arisona,
newly completed at the Brooklyn
Navy Yard. should have beome
a part of the fleet today, she will
not go into commission until 0e
tober 15.
A famine of enlisted men Is the
cause of the delay. Destroyers and
second line ship. have been de
pleted of men in her favor until
they are seriously undermanned
and still she is far from having a
mew.
The navy rard builders finished
her on scheduled time at a coat
of $1.000000 less than the lowest es
timate of private bidders.
PRINCESS SUES,
ASKING DIVORCE
Heiress Files Action Against
Prince Miskinoff.
(By the Internatiemal News Serviee.)
New York, Sept. 15,-Prince Alexan
der Miskinoff today was named defen
dant In a Supreme Court action for
divorce. In papers filed before Justice
Guy the Princess Aimee Crocker MIs
kinoff. formerly Mrs. Jackson Gouraud,
heiress to the Crocker millions, asked
for the appointment of a referee te
try the case.
The complaint does not mention the
name of the "other woman." It sir
ply states that the Prince has accom
panied this unidentifned person of the
domestic triangle to various places in
the State of New York between Janu
ary 1 and July 16 last. One of the
most emphatic assertions of the com
plaint Is the following:
"No issue was born of the marriage.
The Princess put this on record, be
cause the Prince formerly declared she
was the mother of his child. He said
he had taken the baby out for airings
several times after its birth. but the
Princess had spirited the child away
to some unknown place.
Only a few montfis ago the titled
couple were In the Supreme Court on
opposite sides of a law suit. The
Prince asked for a separation on the
ground of his wife's "cruelty." He
also wanted the court to award him
custody of his child.
The Princess replied with an answe?.
which said, amsong other charges:
"My husbapd threatened me with
erlIfeweo. We stated he did not love
me and merely married me for con
venience. He demands a divorce so
that he could marry a young girl for
whom he had declared a most violent
affeetton. She, in turn, represented to
me that she would take her life unless
she was allowed to marry him."
The testimony at the trial brought
out the fact this young girl is Yvonne
Gouraud. the adopted daughter of the
Princess.
WILSON'S GAMPAI~N
PROGRAM DISRUPTED
Illness of President's Sister Interferes
With Speaking Plans.
(By the Internstional News service.)
Asbury Park, N. J., Sept. 15.-President
Wilson's plan to enter actively into the
Democratic campaign by speaking in St.
Louis September 20 again has been dis
rupted. Reports from New London
Conn., late today. announced that Mrs.
Anne Howe, his sister, was likely to suc
cumb at any hour to the ailments from
which she is suffering.
During the morning a bulletin receiv4d
at the executive offices said Mrs. Homo
was not likely to live through the day.
The President and Mrs. W!!son were as
the time on Spring Lake golf links. While
a messenger was on the way to inform
him of the situation, Secretary Tumulty
arraged for a special train to carry the
White House couple to New London at
once.
The President returned to Shadow
Lawn and communicated with Dr. H. M.
Lee. Mrs. Howe's physician, by telephone.
Soon after this the tentative arrange
ments for the President's immediate de
parture were cancelled. It is understood
the physician repeated to the lresident
he could accomplish nothing by going to
New London now.
INDICT ALLEGED HEAD
OF AUTO THEFT TRUST
(By the Internatiemal News Service.)
Chicago. Sept. 15.-Ira W. Bond. a Min
neapolis broker, was indicted here today
by the County Grand Jury on a charge
of larceny and receiving stolen property.
Bond. it is alleged, is the brains behind
the "million dollar auto theft trust,"
which is said to have stolen hundreds
of cars In the Middle West in the past
year.
.Sensational disclosures regarding the op
eration of the alleged trust are promised
when the case comes to trial.
10,000 IN VAST WARL GAME.
Peunsylvania Troope Ehagag Sn
Mimio e Bode. P'lghtaag.
El Paso, Tex.. Sept. 15.-Ten thousand
Pennsylvania troops began a war game
here today, in whIch the main problem
was the defense of El Paso from an at
tack from the north. The scond and
third brigades were assigned to defend
the city, while the first made the attack.
Gen. Aler J Logan is in odenmand
of the *3h' defeding army, The
"Rted" tnvading army is led by Gen. Will
iam G. Prim,. The operations corer
twenty--four square unnne et greend.
abty reguslar army officere were de
tailed by Gen. Bell to umpire the
toAvert mugss strak..
tae toiaer by the govesanuet to bead
eg the thrmtened strike of English rail
way employee, The ieeutive comilttek
of the railway unilon was 5ua 30~ a
confaee with the pr'esnt ed te beard
oft ema .a~
APPROVAL GIVEN
GENERALSTRIKE
Central Federated Union, of'
N. Y. Favors Walk-Out.
(y tha ft.ar... Ne.w. Servies.)o
New York, Sept 15.-Recommenda
tion for a sympathetic strike of 75,000
trades unionista in behalf of the car
Imen was made tonight by the Central
Federated Union at a special meeting
held in the Labor Temple.
Sanction of such a strike by the par
ent organisation is tantamount to an
order for the men to quit work.
Ernest Boehm, secretary of the
Temple Federated Union. said the
strike would begin some time between
tomorrow and Monday.
After adopting unanimously the
resolution of the committee of give.
which last Sunday recommended a 1
general sympathetic strike of all
trades, the Central Federated Union
passed the following motion:
"We recommend, as a preliminary
to the general strike, that the Tide
water Boatmen's Union, Longshore
men. International Brotherhood of
Teamsters, engineers, firemen, plum- t
-bers and such other trades whose Ia
bor Is keeping the traction cars run
ning, stop work, and we guarantee to f
support them fully to the end.
"We also have decided upon a gen- 1
eral boycott of all railroads in New
York against which a strike has been
declared," said Secretary Hoehm. "The
committee of five will arrange at once
for picketing the various lines. All
secretaries of the unions affiliated with
the Central Federation have been in
structed to keep in constant touch
with the parent organizition."
NOTE FOUND BY CANAL;
MAN MAY BE SIIICIDE
W N. BrockwelL 60 Years Old. Fed- f
eral Printer. Missing.
William N. Brockwell. 60 years old, 1259
Morse street northeast, employed at the
Government Printing Office as a proof
reader. Is believed to have committed
!suicide yesterday afternoon by plunging
into the- Chesapeake and Ohio Canal, a
short distance above lock No. 1. Efforts
are being made by Montgomery County d
officials to recover the body.
A coat, umbrella and hat, identified by (
a son, fond on the towpath, and a I
note, supposed to have been written by I
Brockwell. are the clews which lead the
police to believe the aged government
employe is a suicide.
The note, which was written on a union
lafbor newspaper reads: "You will find
my body in the canal." The note was
left beside the coat, hat and umbrella.
John Willard, who attends lock No. 1.
about a mile above the District line
stated last night that he saw a man
walking up the towpath yesterday aft
ernoon with a coat on his arm, and car
rying art umbrella.
Some time later. Willard says, a driver
of canal mules, noticed a coat, hat and
umbrella lying on the tow path. He no
tited Willard of his discovery with the
result that the dockkeeper went to the
scene to make investigation.
Finding the coat, hat, umbrella and
note, Willard notified the Montgomery
County authorities. Investigation was
made, with the result that it i believed
I that Brockwell took his own life.
Brockwell was well known in labor cir
cles in Washington. He was popular
among his associates, and acoording to
members of the force at the Government
Printing Office, was one of the best known
and liked men in the service.
At his home last night it was stated t
by relatives that Brockwell had been in
ill health for some time. A wife and two(
sons survive him.
DENMARK ARRESTS 210
FOR AIDING GERMANY
(By the International New. 1ervie.)
Copenhagen. Sept 15.-Danish police
have arrested 210 persons accused of t
smuggling goods into Germany from
Denmark in violation of the govern- I
ment's decrees. The entire plot was I
betrayed by a prominent business man
who had been asked to participate in
the smuggling operations.
Goods valued at an immense sum
are said to have reached Germany be
fore the conspiracy was nailed. Allies'
agents had for a long time suspected
the existence of the smuggling system
and had conducted an investigation in-Iv
dependently of the Danish authorities.
DESCENDANTS NUMBER 268.
Father, 91, and Mother, 87, visit
7O-Year-Old Son.
Denver, Sept. 15.-Mr. and Mrs. James
S. Jones. of Richmond County, Mo., who
have been married seventy-one years. are
visiting their 70-year-old son. Clabe Jones.
in this city.
Mr. Jones is 91 years old and his wife
four years younger. They were married
July 22, 18M, and have had fourteen chil
dren, seven boys and seven girls. Four
are living, all over 60 years old. 'There
are 58 grandchildren, all living, 20 great- 1
grandchildren, and 8 or 10 great-great
grandchildren. He was the first white
child born in Rush township. Rush Coun
ty, Ind. Mrs. Jones was one of eleven
children.
MUSIC TO SOOTHE NERVES.
Open-Air Concert Given feor Phila-..
delphia Eospial Pattemts.
New York, Sept. 1L--As ap experimentc
in the treatment of nervous patients at I
the Philadelphia Hospital, an open-air I
concert was given last night in the court
yard of the instittion.
More than 300 patients of the ward for
the treatment of nervous diseases gath- I
er'ed around the. mioi stand, which was I
so located that paties ana nn to rooms I
in the hospital buildings nearby could I
enjoy the concert
Landomi Se. E,--The Danish steamer 4
Hans Ta .2 tess has. been sunk.
The crew wV5 YSmd
LMadrid Sept.' 5--3t wasa reported here a
today that MuleS HM Is leading a re- a
hellion cn )Mor0that the M ela
Telegraph Tips
=esssy City, N. J.p. pt 15,-Andrew K.
Vanker playfully tapped a one-pound
hell, a souvenir of the Black Tom ITland
ZPlosion, with a hammer. Andrew lost
he souvenir, the hammer and two
bneers.
3henaadoah. Pa.. Sept. I-Rngtown
as an epidemic of black diphtheria, and
Inoe unday six came" have been report
d. with two deaths.
Paris, Sept. 15.-The syndieate of French
ewspaper proprietors has decided to cut
he Gordian knot by cutting their news
apers In half. All the dailies in the syn
lcate, no matter what their size or price,
rill until the end of the- war, appear
wice a week, with half the present num
er of pages.
Quincy, Mass.. Sept. 15.-The steamship
dward Iickenbach, the first of five
arge oil burning freighters under con.
truction by the Fore River Shipbuilding
:orporation for the Lgckenbach Line. has
een launched here.
Madrid, Sept. 15.-The Liberal reports
hat the situation created by the paper
amie and the heavy increase of running
xpenses is so serious that several Span
sh newspapers will be compelled soon to
uspend publication, being already on the
erge of bankruptcy.
Spokane. Wash.. Sept. 15.-Their itin.
rary disarranged when a rockslide block
d the railroad, J. Frank Hanly and Dr.
ra Landrith, Prohibitionist candidates
or President and Vice President. had to
bandon their campaign in central Wash
igton.
Mayetta, Kan.. Sept, 15.-Pottawatomie
ndians soon will institute legal proceed
rigs to gain possession of the Chicago
Rke front from Michigan avenue to the
dge of the lake, It has been announced
ollowing a tribal council.
Dallas, Tex.. Sept. 15.-Henry Wright,
armer, shot and instantly killed his wife
nd then himself after a quarrel over the
noney for the sale of a hog.
Berlin, Sept. 15-Copenhagen dispatches
o the Overseas News Agency state that
usiness has been completely suspended
t a number of British ports, owing to the
irge number of transports carrying
ome wounded and dead from the French
ront.
Mexico City. Sept. 15.-Alfonso Santi
anez. who assassinated Jesus Carranza,
tephew of Gen. Carranza, and killed the
nrme.r federal general, Raefel Equiliz,
tas been killed in a quarrel at Zihuatlan
.y Aurelio Hernandez. a Felicista, it
vas learned today.
Havana. Sept. 15.-Sculptors all over the
rorld will be requested soon to submit
'icns for a 3175.mA monument to Gen.
faximo Gomes, commander-in-chief of
uban troops in the war for Cuban inde
endence. A prize of $10.000 will be offered
or the best design.
Peabody. Kans.. Sept. 15.--Abel Cart
rright, who would have celebrated his
ne hundred and second birthday Novem
er 9, died at his home near hee yese
erday.
Bayonne, N. J.. Sept. 1.--To eliminate
he babel of tongues and Americanize the
ity the board of education will establish
ight classes for the teaching of English
a alien residents, who comprise 60 per
ent of Bayonne's 70,000 inhabitants.
Atlanta. Ga.. kept. 15.-Matthew Mindy,
newsboy, was held under 1150 bond here
harged with selling New Y 5-k. Jackson
file and Cincinnati newspapers contain
ag liquor advertisements. The case,
rhich will be heard today, is the first
f its kind to be brought here under
leorgia's new prohibition law.
New York. Sept. 15.-A ladder across
W entrance to the Women's Hughes
'ommittee's offices today stopped two
uperstitious feminine enrollers who
didn't want to hoodoo Hughes."
Dallas. Tex.. Sept. 1k.-Dallas' $5,000,000
nion passenger station was opened to
bie general public today. It is patterned
fter the big new Kansas City Terminal.
New York. Sept. 15.-Rudolph De Cor
ova, author and dramatist, and Mrs.
Jicia Ramsey, who has collaborated with
im in writing many plays, have been
iarried at the home of Mr. De Cordova's
lster.
New York, Sept. 15-Five hundred
eamsters. comprising Local No. 584 of
ie International Brotherhood of Team
ters have voted to strike. The Mutual
tcDermott Dairy Corporation refused to
rant their demand for $21 a week.
New York, Sept. 15.-A Bronx lot has
een sold for $10 at a foreclosure sale by
ames J. Donovan. The buyer was Car
lyn Freedman, the plaintiff. The de
endants were Francisco Attarlo and
thers. The lot is 25 by 100 feet, on the
outh side of East 211th street, 80.7 feet
rest of Rosewood avenue. The sum due
ras $757, plus taxes for $212.
Rome. Sept. 15.-A new papal nuncio
1 going to Vienna immediately with
n autograph letter from the Pope to
mperor Francis Joseph, according to
ie Messagero.
London, Sept. 15.-Frieherr von
'reytag-Loringhoven, former quarter
mater general, has been appointed
hief of the reserve general staff. ac
ording to a dispatch to the Central
rews.
Utica. N, Y., Sept. 16-Burned barns,
ay. farming implements and live
tock, aggregating a loss in central
rew York of many thousands of dol
Lra. was the story told today by the
slephone wires after communication
ith rural communities had been re
tored, following last night's terriic
torm. It was the most severe electri.
al storm of the season,
New York, Sept. 15.-Changes In the
tanagement of the International News
ervice took effect today. R. A. Far.
slly, who for some years has been Its
eneral manager, retires. He is sue
seded by Fred' J. Wilson, who more
lian a year ago organized the Pacific
laws Service, which had co-operated
rith the International News Service,
Harrisburg, Pa.. Sept. 15.--A com
sissioner for each regiment of infan
ry, cavalry, artillery and separate
silitary organisation not constituting
regiment must be appointed by Gov
rnor Brumbaugh to take the Penn.
ylvania soldier vote on the border. and
t Mount Gretna in November. accord
ag to an opinion handed down bIp
ettorey General Brows today.
SeanteS, Pa.. Sept. I.--FIfty-ive of the
17 L. W. W. rioters arrested testerday
rere held today in ,IS0g 'bail each, on
harges of incitinfl to riot, unlawful as
srnbly, forcible entsy, sad conspiracy,
Iter tapey were taken cu a special streel
me meda y med deumea t. the
NOT READY YET
TO QUIT MEXICE
Gen. Bliss Addresses Comnmi
sioners-Board Depressed.
(By the Internatimmal News erviste
New London. Conn.. Sept. 15.-Get
Tasker Bliss explained to the Carrens
peace commissioners today why th
American troops should not be withdraw
from Mexico just now. The Mexican
seemed much depressed by the general
advice. Their plans for the celebratio
tof the Mexican day of independence t
morrow were revoked.
It was the General's first talk with th
Carrarsa envoys. Hitherto he had cl
conferred with the American delegatei
To obtain greater privacy the entire corr
mission went aboard the navy yact
Sylph.
Asked by Luis Cabrera. head of tb
Mexican deputation, if a Mexican arm
could not now be substituted for th
American soldiery. Gen. Bliss points
out the dangers of such a change.
Senor Cabrera and his two colleague
senor Pani and Bonillas, left New Lo
don tonight for New York. It became o1
ficially known tonight that the joir
commission would consider the follom
ing matters next Week:
1-The responsibility of Mexico to pr<
teet the American border should troor
be withdrawn, the theory of the America
inember. of the commission being the
the burden of this responsibility shoul
be assumed by Mexico.
2-The ttreparation for some considers
tion of claims by American citizen
against Mexico.
3-The consideration of the claims c
American property owners in Mexico tha
their property is being confiscated. eithe
by excessive taxation or by decrees I
forfeiture.
4-The consideration of decrees unde
which American citizens have bee
driven out of Mexico or not permitted t
practice their professions or carry o
their business contrary to treaty stipula
tions.
I 5--The right to forfeit lands owned b
foreigners upon ground that they ha%
not used their property during the perko
when It was not possible to gain accee
to it.
FARMER FACES CHARiE
OF KILlNi CHILI
R. E. Shipley. of Sunshine, Md. Het
After Infant's Death.
Robert E. Shipley. a farmer near Sur
shine, Md.. is held in the Rockville. Md
jail pending the verdict of a coroner
jury as to the cause of the death e
his year-old child.
The father, It is alleged. rough
handled the child yesterday, inflicting in
lures which caused the baby's death.
1 Mrs. Shipley ran from the hous
ostensibly to go to the spring for wate
and telephoned to Deputy Sheriff Darb:
of Gaithersburg. asking for her hum
band's arrest. Darby telephoned Sheri:
Preston Hewitt, of Gaithersburg for ir
structions and was told to arrest Shiple)
When Darby reached the Shipley hom
Shipley had left in a borrowed bugg
Later he was overtaken and arreste.
An autopsy was held last night on th
child's body by Dr. C. H. Mannar. c
Bethesda, Md.. and Dr. Clinton N. D
Yllblas, of Laytonsville, Md. Their find
Ing was that the child had died fror
a hemorrhage caused by an impact wit
some soft body. Dr. Mannar said n
bones were fractured.
A preliminary hearing will be held thl
morning at the Rockville Court House.
U. S. SHIP TO RESCUE
AMERICANS IN SYRI
The United States cruiser Des Moin.
will leave Barcelona, Spain, immedl
ately for a Syrian port to take o
sixty-five American women and chi]
dren refugees, it was stated at th
Navy Department yesterday.
The State Department has instructe
the Embassy at Constantinople to at
range for their transportation. and I
is expected that they will embark a
Jaffa. The Des Moines will discharg
medical supplies at Jaffa and the
proceed with the Americans to a
Egyptian or Italian port.
SCORES AUSTRTAX POLICY.
Hungarian Leader Attacks Miiitar
Administration.
Budapest, Sept. 4. via Amsterdarr
Sept. 15.-Count Albert Apponyi, ?ade
of the opposition, made a sharp attac
on the Austrian military administratio
Ir the Hungarian parliament
Count Apponyi declared that a grav
defeat had been administered to the dus
monarchy's army at Lutak by the Rum
sians which the government had at
tempted to conceal.
"This completely changed the Austriang
eastern front." he asserted. "It is necem
sary that we should receive guarantee
that there be no recurrence of such
disaster."
.UTLAND HONORS AWARDED.
British Naval Heroes Rewarded a
Royal Government.
London, Sept, 15.-Honors awarded as
result of the JTutland battle are enumne
ated by the Official Gaxette today as fo:
lows:
Admiral Sir John Jellicoe, Order<
Merit; Vice Admiral Sir David Beatt
Knight of the Grand Crass of the Bati
Rear Admiral Sir F., C, D. Sturdee. Oorr
paanion of St. Michael and St. George,
The boy. John Travers. of Cornwel
who rernained on his post during the'
tion, although mortally wounded
awarded the Victoria Cross. Sub-Ili
Price Albert. R. N., has been recomme
edl for commendation for service,
Vessel Escapes Breaker.
San Francisco, Cal.. Sept. 15.-The Al~
kan bark, Star of Chile, which was
Dorted In the breakers south of b'e
early tgday. was safely anchored off sh
shortly before noon today. Tugs, wic
were sent from San Francisco when u or
of the vessel's plight was received her
reported that all on board were safe an
that ,the ship was not seriously dan
aged. .
Norwegian Steamer Sank.
Lydono. Sepi7 15.-The Warwegia
sa Ene thel. .m toea ham m smi
Tg Leaves Bestn as
Cemvey for Sbmarie
(my Entermtatipm Ntews gervIes.)
Boston, Sept. 15. -it has been
leared on good authority, that a.
tug left Boston early today to at
A & convoy for a German sub
marine ssrebantman whichs re
ported about W mile. east of Nan
tucket and which is believed to be
headed for New London or pos
t sibly Boston.
It was reported today that the
Boston Towboat Company had re
cwtved a wireless mess=e from
the bsuarine and dispatched a
tug to pilot the German boat.
L
UBLGAR-GERMAN
LINES SMASHEI
t Allied Drive in Macedoni
Continues in Full Swing
(By the Internstie"i News service.
t London, Sept 15.-The alled offensih
d in Macedonia continues in full swing
The Bulgar-German firs, line defense
have been penetrated on the right by th
3:Serbs, in the center by the French. an
on the left by the ItaIo-British_renct
The most notable success in the lai
t twenty-four hours was scored by th
r reorganized Serbian army
f After a three-day battle in which t1
Serhian heir apparert. Prince Alexande
r gave the opening signal by persorall
n firing the frst gun sht., the Serbs hav
o routed the ,onquerors of their countr
n all along the front. driving them back o
the towr of Florina, eventeen miles sout
of Monastir.
They carried the town of Gornizesvo I
C an embittered dash at the point of th
d bayonet and gained a firm foothold on th
a crest of Malkanidze mountain. rorthweg
of Ostrovo Lake.
In their pursuit of the Bulgar, they too
the village of Eksisu. driving the defene
era back twelve miles Twenty-five car
non and prisoners. as yet uncourted. fe
into Serbian hands
Simultaneously the allied right win
formed by the British on the Strum
River, took by storm the town of Makn
kovo and two points to the north. irr
mediately intrenching themselves. The
took ,1M prisoners and ten machine guns.
Meanwhile the French. in the centel
between the Vardar and Lake Doirai
also pushed their lines forward The
- scored an advance half a mile deep o
a front of about a mile.
a
GOR CLANS1E SAW
LAWYER SHT IN PARI
- Wealthy Society Youth. Associate e
- Gunmen. Sought.
(By the IuteruatiSaa News Bervee.
New York, Sept. 15.-Two nyeteriot
witnesses in the Dilworth murder wet
f discovered today.
e They are Miss E. ( Ballard an
Hyman Mendelsohn.
Mis Ballard has told the polce the
she was one of the passengers in
D touring car that was close to that C
DtIRght Dilworth in Lover's Iete. Va
Cortlandt Park when the lawyer wa
shot,. in the presence of his companiot
Miss Mary McNlff.
It was not willingly that she gave th!
information When first Questioned o
the subject by the police. she refuse
to admit that she had been near th
place. Under pressure. however. at
went as far as to reveal the fact. if
was a fact, that she had a-etuallv wil
nessed the shooting.
n Another mysterious person, the son r
L a wealthy and well-known family, ma
ebe aled as a litnes There are ind
cations that he is believed to have bee
dleading a Jekyll and Hyde exhtence.
I While his associates by day have bee
t above suspicion. he is said to have ha
t unexplainable relations by night wit
e lawless characters, commonly known a
gun men.
In fact there are many reasors f,
!believing that the Dilworth murder wa
'another crime traceable to hirei gans
sters provided with an autonobie. an
commissioned to take a human I e f,
a price provided by others of much higy
er position in the social scale
I_
VILLA NOT TO ATTACK,
SAYS WAR DEPARTMEN1
eIt was stated at the War Depart
meat yesterday afternoon that no con
- firmation had been received of the re
- ported movement of Francisco Vill
'and his forces in the State of Chihua
hue. Mexico The belief was expresse
- that the reports were inventions. de
' signed to embarrass the negotiation
afor the settlement of the Mexica
problem.
The War Department, it was sal
knows that Villa is moving upo
neither Juarez nor Chihuahua City. h
reported objectives. and that he do*
'not possess forty-nine oannon, whir
were accredited to him In the report
PUPI S TO COOK LUNCHES.
-New Jersey Girls Will Bell Thes
To Fellow Students.
Collingswood. N. J., Sept. 15 -At ti,
opening of the high school, Sep'emb4
25z, a new departure will be started I
which students will be instructed unds
.the direction of the domestic eclent
teacher. Miss Marion L- Anderseon. t
a prepare lunches to be sold to the pupi
.at noon.
- Accommodations will be provided in
room where 10 or more studenta can 1
served at orie time. Soup ast 2 cent'
cocoa, 2 cents; sandwiches. S cents. ar
1several other Itemns will be on the "bi
SHOOT ACROSS BORDER.
Bullets Fired From Menklean 514
- Upon Ainerten Outpoet.
IEagle Pass. Tex., Sept. I6.-Shot, wei
fi red from the Mexican sidc of the Rt
Gr~nde upon an Ameican outpost
4Sycamore, forty miles nortnraest a ber.
ast night, accordir'e; to reports I ,~i.In
y military offieials at this post today.
iAn inetigation is bM me. M
8- 08
BRMSH CRUSH
FAMOUS TEUTON
SALIENT LINE
Thiepval - Comble Def ma
Torn Open, Mencing Ba
paume and Peronne.
(ft te .......... Bes arees.
London, Sept. --Tbe now aous Ger.
mnan Oestnt One. ThIeval-Combi. is a
longer.
The British tore it wide open today.
In a twelve-hour battle. on the eight
mile front from Thlepval to (nchy, it
the face of twelve hundred of the
Kaier's most powerful gene.-1N to a
nile-the stormed, pierced. shattered
and then occupied that stretch of, the
German front north of the Somne which
hitherto had acted as a defiant block to
their advanoe on Combles and Bapaume.
The barrier broken d-uwn Sir Daglas
Haig's troops pushed considirat I.nd
it to the ncrtheas?. rarry inz ?he nenace
of the Sorri drive. almost as 'emonusly
cIos" to Bapauime as it is to Crmbles
snd Pa-rnne
*The end of the fight'ng tong'- sa
Ihe Pri'eh In tpssession of rrac't - l.
h- high groiund between 'omb, ar
the Albert-Poeirres-Bapau.e higa' F
Three villege- Flere. Marir..,i,h and
Cour-eliette-and High Wood, w-re o
plately captured as was the rreate, I&
of Bou leux od
The powerf l German rodoubt ca! e
Wunder \Work' Wonder V. -I.
muse of its supposed impregr. r wass
taken by storm in the 'ir, i'.7 the
sali-nt tp near Thiepval M1ore than
2.3M prismners were taker inluding
Fixty-f'e officers.
The day was the mos' succepsful for t~e
British since the initial hase of the
Somme battle Fo- three +-.m p their :n
fantry had enjoyed conpara' e ret
uhiI. the artillery paved the wey f'r to
t day - new onrush
The French. though not launchint an
attack on a !arge front. worked hand In
- hand with the British In drawing the
. ring around Corbles s*.f! closed
The French war office annonced to
night that Gen Foch's troops took a
S' stem of German trenchee 1-0 metres
deep north of Le Prier farm aIch fell
- into their hands yesterday
BLACKLIST BACKED BY
LAW, IL DE AKE3S
Brifisl Soon to Rpayr U. S. Prot.
Minister Avers.
(9y the, lterneTissal gews ServIee:
London. Sept. 16.-Lord Robert Ceoil.
Minister of blockade, announced this
f'afternoon that Great Britain's reply t
I the United State' protest against th
blacklist will be ready in a day o
two and will be delivered at once.
Lord Cecil. discussIng the answe
with a correspondent of the Interna
: t onal News Service, declared tha
'rgland's legal position in establish
Inc the blacklist is unquestioned
I "The blacklist, in its operation ma
he considered harsh." he said. "bu
"reat Britain will be very glad I
L consider individual cases where it I
f felt that an injustice Ps being done."
The Minister of blockade declare
also that a misapprehension exists I
the United States regarding the re
cent shipping restrictions as to Ho!
land and the Scandinavian countries
He said that the new British rulin
restricts only a rare few articles wit
which those countries are believed I
be plentifully upp:iled at this time. a
t far as their own needs are concerned
NOT ONE PLAUIJE CASE
REPORTED IN WEE!
District Health Department's Paralysis
Record Blank.
For the first time since early June. the
I District Health Department has sone on
entire week without receiving a report
of a case of nfantile para:ysis.
When the departmet cosed at night
it marked a seven-day x nod since the
SlSt infantile sufferer ..s li.eted !)r.
Fonier feels conAdent that cas.-s the
'ease in the District henceforth wi.l be
rare.
In New York. M tasausets and other
- Sltates the F-tred of thecourge a stdl
- 'ricuis. but tr e mIad, has not been epl
- domic here. ar,* ihen 0- anrual rtatia
a tics are comhied the' w sh' onlv a
- ght incree over the r .I-ma: fgures
The last cae reported deiclosed upon
- .ivestigatiln that the disease had been
contracted in Connecticut
There have hen four deaths from Lhe
disease. and about fifty aufferers in the
. District The majority of those striccen
are well on the way to recovery
BANK FAMS: RIOTS FEARED.
Pellee Hold in Ceck Ary et
Auagered Allen Depetore.
Chicago. Sept 15 -Exrtra _polse were
5stationed ir: South l'nion street today to
prevent rioting among several hundred
foreigners who clamoredl about the pri
vate bank of Michael Micbnluk. which
h aa failed and swept sway their lIfe sav
Sings.
rThe failure of the Michniuk bank,. fol
lowing cloasely on the collapse of the dli
v ner and several other irstitutionts in the
Spast few montha. has crested a panic In
the forelrn quarter. It nmakes the forty
third private bank to fall in Chicago Ia
e the last fiye yeara.
The Mdichnluk bank had depoet of go
tween $4dSMan .0.
IWAGERS $10,000 01 HUGED.
Curb Broker Beks G. 0. P. Caset
a is Reed Bet.
New York. Sept. IL-The laget Uager
e Irecorded in the financtal distriet on the
o forthomning Presidential election wsa
tmade today when a curb broker planed
$tifW for a *cliert against I3.00 that
g H-ughes would he the next Preeldent.
IThere is practically no Wilasn ooey
a in eight. Lupporiereado the bats
aas ab5 a s
