N
AN OPEN
If you have ought that's fit to sell,
lite printer's ink, and use it well.
VOI, :$2. 88
rv\.~ n-!s8i1.hv 4.
8
on your accession to the headship of
Tuskegee the assurances of its good
will and personal respect The Crisis
does this all the more willingly be
cause it has to some extent been the
mouthpiece of many who have had oc
casion repeatedly to criticize the
words and deeds of your predecessor
It would be a matter of hope and
rejoicing if your assumption of ne*r
nary step to such understanding the
standing or misstatement. We desire
to become American citizens with
eveiy right that pertains to citizen
ship*
1 The right to vote and hold office.
2. Equality before the law.
3 Equal civil rights in all public
places, and in all public services.
4 A proportional share in the bene
fits of all public expenditures.
according to
tion of poverty, the emancipation of
phasis on vocational training, prop-
trainingywil not forget.
a Uttanp of Atlanta
Silent God, Thou whose voice afar in mist and mystery hath
left our ears an-hungered in these fearful days
Hear us, good Lord I
J* J* L'sten to us, Thy childrens our faces dark with doubt, are made
a mockery in Thy sanctuary. With uplifted hands we front Thy
heaven, O God, crying:
We beseech Thee to hear as, good Lord
J* j* We are not better than our fellows, Lord, we are but weak and
human men. When our devils do deviltry, curse Thou the doer and
the deed: curse them as we curse them, do to them all and more
than ever they have done to innocence and weakness, to womanhood
and home.
Have mercy upon as, miserable sinners
J* And yet whose is the deeper guilt? Who made these devils?
Who nursed them in crime and fed them on injustice? Who ravished
and debauched their mothers and their grandmothers? Who bought
and sold their crime, and waxed fat and rich on public iniquity?
Thou knovjest, good God!
& Is this Thy justice, O Father, that guile be easier than innocence,
and the innocent crucified for the guilt of the untouched guilty
Justice, 0 Judge of men I
Wherefore do we pray Is not the God of the fathers dead?
Have not seers seen in Heaven's halls Thine hearsed and lifeless form
stark amidst the black and rolling smoke of sin, where all along bow
bitter forms of endless dead
Awake, Thou that steepest I
Thou art not dead, but flown afar, up hills of endless light,
thru blazing corridors of suns, where worlds do swing of good and
gentle men, of women strong and freefar from the cozenage, black
hypocrisy and chaste prostitution of this shameful speck of dust!
Turn again, 0 Lord, leave us not to perish in our sin I
J* From lust of body and lust of blood
Great God deliver us I
T^end,
to.
you.
LETTERto.exO
RUS8AteiMOTON.
(Pro_a,s.the Crisis.)
ls
Proper. But how far shall it go? It
ROBERT 2. Individual accumulation of wealth
must gradually and inevitably give
way to methods of social accumula
tion and equitable distribution.
3-
duties could be the beginning of a family,
new era of union and understanding
among the various groups of Ameri
can Negroes
But understanding and co-operation correctly reported thatt
must be based on frank conference voluntarily at the
and clear knowledge As a prelimi- i^Jt
Crisis ventures in this open letter to ?.su?yll
express to you publicly its hopes and
fear
Its hopes that the aims of the col
ored American have become suffi
ciently clear to admit of no misunder-
Wft
Finally: Conciliation is wise and
is here that the Crisis confesses to its
deepest solicitude in your case It
cannot but remember its unanswered
query of you in the case of the St.
Louis luncheon It has before it the
heading of a Rochester paper which
gives as your opinion that "from
North one gets distorted view of
South." cen
And finally, there is the re
case of the Pullman car and your
The Crisis will assume indlallnof
these cases that you have not been
i
suc
Du
5 Education according to ability so monstrous a statement is made, as
and aptitude 1 in the case of the Pullman car, some-
With these rights we correlate our thing besides silence and acquiescence
duties as men and citizensthe aboli- *s
this warning word: TuskWeewhirl rrtet a and it
of colored leaders but the point upon
which we insist is this: that such
atrocious statements cannot be al
ways passed in silence.
We do not wish the principal of
Tuskegee to spend his valuable time
in answering calumnies and misstate
ments, but we do believe that when
called for
n0pe
women, the suppression of crime and kegee in the future a carrying out
the overcoming of ignorance. iand development of the best of its
The Crisis assumesindeed, it past work and a continued attempt to
knowsthat in these matters you be- come to terms of understanding with
lieve substantially, as we do, and that the best of the white South
to see, therefore, at Tus-
no
do
vote5et
aa
wor
policies, but they have their pitfalls, -mis the
la
1. Onl thegive higher and broader SS!?S7*^ teMmZlte 3J~ S.L
any race its ulti
tration^ andSit
A
i
no
yo
you?alid
not
ba sne yo ,nndiPuU
a
1?up
*yVCeJ*1t
Northlunchino
di
and above all
aw
J**
a
rid
*ot
J?*
assei
famll
tha you
sympathy with the attempt of mem-
ber
man cars in the South.
ThenCrisis'knowss only too well th
which Southern newspapers
sentiment into the mouthe
there be such, lie in matters of pres- policy of makinegs it clearly understood however, at his foresaking his wife in ejected from the car by "two* police-
ent emphasis and present procedure, to the people of this country that Tus- this hour of her humiliation. We also men and some of the best citizens" of
We assume, without demur, that kege does believe in the right to have respect for the traditions of the Troy, Ala. Although they had paid
following the late Booker T. Wash
ington you will place especial em- Crok that it recognizes the we denounce and oppose th recent sengers, bothcar.
thttiforwflr#i Hte
she had purchased, which the com
pany had accepted the money for, in
order that white supremacy might get
another boost? Above all do we re
gret the reported statement issued by
Major Moton. He did not stand by
his wife in her fight for her rights.
He advised the submission to in
human oppression. He is quoted as
gard
(he
commendt
him for hi
the real differences between us, if these policies we hope to see added a of the South, but we are amazed Blanton Moton, his brother were
erty getting and conciliation of the agrees with Charles Sumner that make them lynch, burn, oppress and The wires te]l us that when Major Major Moton, please don't assume
white South. These are necessary "Equality of rights is the first of degrade the colored race under the Moton was informed of the matter, he the attitude of an apologist. We arf
and against these the Crisis speaks rights." disguise of "Southern chivalry and
condoneAPPEAL
w?a
oto
e fjeatness." The officer
Mrs*
desires iSTST ^v!
mate leadership. This Mr Cwig- hope.' a S SdSd fii wea^to cno^ between resJ SS^tS Mf
aC$4!
7
THE APPE A
ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS, MINN.. &ATUBDAY: SEPTEMBER 16. 1916
A LITANY OF ATLANTA
BY DR. W, E. BURGHARDT DU BOIS
IN THE NEW YORK INDEPENDENT
J- From the leagued lying of despot and of brute,
Great God dettber us I
& A city lay in travail, God our Cord, and from her loins sprang
twin Murder and Black Hate. Red was the midnight clang, crack
and cry of death and fury filled the air and trembled underneath the
stars when church spires pointed silently to Thee. And all this was to
sate the greed of greedy men who hide behind the veil of vengeance!
Bend us Thine ear, 0 Lord I
j* In the pale, still morning we looked upon the deed* We stopped
our ears and held our leaping hands, but theydid they not wag their
heads and leer and cry with bloody jaws: Cease from Crime I The word
was mockery, for thus they train a hundred crimes while we docure one.
Turn again our captivity, 0 Lord I
j* Behold this maimed and broken thing dear God it was an humble
black man who toiled and sweat to save a bit from the pittance
paid him. They told him: Work and Rise* He worked. Did this man
sin? Nay, but some one told how some one said another didone
whom he had never seen nor known. Yet for that man's crime this
man lieth maimed and murdered/ his wife naked to shame, his
children, to poverty and evil.
Hear us, 0 heavenly Fatherl
jt Doth not this justice of hell stink in Thy nostrils, O God? How
long shall the mounting flood of innocent blood roar in Thine ears and
pound in our hearts for vengeance? Pile the pale frenzy of blood-
crazed brutes who do such deeds high on Thine altar, Jehovah Jireb,
and burn it in hell forever and forever!
Forgtbe us, good Lord vje knovj not whai tv say I
THE MOTON INCIDENT.
(From the Cleveland Gazette.)
Major Robert Moton has recently
been installed as principal of Tuske
gee, Ala., N. and I. Institute. He
made a favorable impression while
here in Rochester. Everyone regrets
to know that his wife was subjected
to such brutal treatment as to be
driven out of a Pullman car in Ala- cowards when their civil rights are at
bama. It appears, according to re-'stake, the sooner it goes to the wall
ports, that the riding in a Pullman the better it will be for all concerned,
car by the Motons had been a subject Great buildings, imposing machinery,
of discussion before the journey was beautiful grounds and varied indus-
begun. Mrs Moton felt that she was tries amount to naught when the real
clearly within her rights to ride in a thing, MANHOOD, is crushed out.
Pullman car anywhere it went. The Major Moton should understand now
white passengers complained of her that Tuskegee is a nation's school,
presence and when everything was The millions now being sought for
opportune, they depended upon the from all races should remain in hid-
usual law-breaking officials of Alabama ing if the inhuman and brutal prac-
to drive a defenseless woman out of tices of the worst element of the
the car, in which she could travel with South are to determine its policy. If
comfort and ease, into a "jim-crow" the best whites of the South acquiesce
car, where vermin dwelt It is very in it, then we say move Tuskegee
unfortunate for the white passengers where it can develop character and
that their selfish ease and comfort MANHOOD. The "jim-crow" car
had made them snobs to the extent must be fought and the time is oppor-
that they objected to the presence of tune to fight when one of the fore-
the wife of the principal of Tuskegee most women of the land ha been so
Normal and Industrial Institutethe shamelessly humiliated and appar-
school that the country says is "the ently foresaken by her strong de-
colored man's finest educational fender. Major Moton's task is a dif-
asset." Is it possible that any white ficult one, but let him start right If
woman could be so robbed of the milk the advice given his brother and wife
of kindness and womanly instincts is characteristic of what he will give
that she would urge the driving of a students, we quake and tremble for
refined mother out of her berth which colored boys and girls.
J- j Bewildered we are, and passion-tost, mad with the madness of
a mobbed and mocked and murdered people} straining at the armposts
of Thy Throne, we raise our shackled hands and charge Thee, God,
by the bones of our stolen fathers, by the tears of our dead mothers, by
the very blood of Thy crucified Christ: What meaneth this Tell us
the Plan give us the Sign!
Keep not thou silence, 0 God!
THE MOTON INCIDENT
Comments of Colore Contemporaries on Majo Moton's Failureto Resent the Humiliation of His Wife and
the Insult to the Colore People of the Country. Principal of Tuskegee Institute
has not yet replied to the Ope Letter of the Crisis and the Comments
of the Press. Speak Ou Major!
mission to wrong and injustice in
order to exist in the world, we choose
the former. Between Major Moton
and his courageous wife in this in
stance there is no real choice. Fair
minded men and women of all races
sympathize with and stand by Mrs.
Moton. If Tuskegee is to be con
tinued as a mill to turn out colored
boys and girls who are spineless and
saying that he "has the highest re- tickets from Montgomery, Alabama to
lor the traditlon-Tof The ISouth, SavannahTl3e"oS
having been born there." We Robert R. Moton, recently installed
consideratiot
ofcars the Negr colleges, and that it "tradition of the South,"e which the jimcro (Fro the Omaha Monitor.)
(REV.) WM. A. BOYD,
Rochester, N. Y.
RESENTMENT NEEDED.
(St. Paul Appeal Editorial.)
After having been granted Pullman
as principal of Tuskegee Institute
believe inbut Jim-o South tha are humanes and just hun Pullman fares and were interstate pas Staned Squarely for Justice.
it
a
TH
E
that*
he
ton camejo realize, and this you must that you^wSl'not disappoint your l^^T^^Z^r^l ttStflJt* "SLSS^S rfdt T^SSS ra^ha?! a
ilow workers.
Jim Crow'
ored youth for life. Manhood should
be the basis of all training.
What more is needed to make a man
resentful than an attack on his wife?
A being who would not defend his wife
against every foe is unworthy to be
called a man. Even among the lower
animals the males willingly give up
their lives in defense of their mates.
The present unhappy state of the
colored people in the United States is
largely due to the servile tactics of
the so-called leaders who have been
not only too cowardly to defend them
selves when attacked but have actu
ally advised submission to great
wrongs.
Has Shown His Hand.
(From the Cleveland Gazette.)
Four days after,the inauguration as
principal of Tuskegee, Ala., Normal
and Industrial Institute the South
forces Major Moton to "show his
hand" and there is not even a "deuce"
in it for the race. One thing sure
and that is from a racial standpoint
he is certainly no improvement upon
Booker T. Washington.
Unfit to Teach Our Children.
(From the Martinsburg Pioneer-.
Press.)
This paper has no retraction to
make in the Major Moton affair. It
thought then and knows now that no
improvement was made by his pro
motion. Booker T. Washington's pal
liation gave us double work for man
hood rights not only in the South but
the North as well
fon
pai
sayingtthatohpeople
0
to
^'O^ako and resentment agains the who of your position. Stan squarel.. an MINNESOTA
80RSCA'
IETT
wIf
goe
la
unfi
were forced to ride in ,,_.
untold years to
hi
come, and his successor's ambition is
to be patted on thke back and called
a gooh darkey"to theo lower regions
Any
wife when
"gooda class"e cdarkey"
a
wit
wh
ma
fo
P^ima car 1*
0
children
contendincg for her rights
i
ride
an-
tea
an
abus efor*
"respected hoping for big things from you We
has hesitanc in apology is due from either Mrs
ejected the traditions of the South and had no know and appreciate the difficulties
J**_ company that committed^ the outrage." firmly for justice to your race. Nc
r
0
V*1?*
"*T
-1 w^s^-v^^^re
J* jft Lord, we have done these pleading, wavering words.
We beseech Thee to hear us, good Lord I
Major Moton's First Duty.
(From the New York News)
The future of the great work
Tuskegee, ma? call for an offendint
silence, but it will never- be helped
long or to any great degree by an
abject surrender of the race's rights.
Major Moton's first duty to himself
and his race is to set himself now and
at all times four square with the pro
gress of his people.
The Color Line.
(From the Chicago Evening Post.)
Major Moton is quoted as saying
that he bears no resentment against
anyone for the treatment accorded his
wife. If he were an American, he
would resent it hotly and the railroad
would pay damages. As an Afro
\merican he may not act on the im
oulse of self-respect and chivalry he
nust cringe and submit
Unless He Can Talk Like a Man.
(From the Richmond Planet.)
Principal R. R. Moton has gone to
work. It would be well for him to
keep at it and to have nothing further
say about that Pullman sleeping
?ar incident.
In business, fortunes are not realized
Unless your goods are amply advertised.
IT no longer blind, Lord God, deaf to our prayer and dumb to
our dumb suffering. Surely Thou too art not white, O Lord, a
pale, bloodless, heartless thing
Ah I Christ of all the Pities I
J* J Forgive the thought! Forgive these wild,blasphemous words.
Thou art still the God of our black fathers, and in Thy soul's soul sit
some soft darkenings of the evening, some shadowings of the velvet
night. J* J But whisperspeakcall, great God, for Thy silence is white
terror to our hearts! The way, O God, show us the way and point us
the path.
& Whither North is greed and South is blood within, the
coward, and without, the liar. Whither? To death?
Amen I Welcome dark sleep
J* oft Whither? To life? But not this life, dear God, not this. Let
the cup pass from us, tempt us not beyond our strength, for there is
that clamoring and clawing within, to whose voice we would not listen,
yet shudder lest we must, and it is red, Ah! God! It is a red and
awfdl shape.
Setahl
J* J* In yonder East trembles a star.
Vengeance is mine Ivtill repay, satth the Lord I
Jft oft Thy will, O Lord, be done!
Kyrie Eleisonl
ift Jft We bow our heads and hearken soft to the sobbing of woaen
and little children.
We beseech Thee to hear us, good Lord I
Jft Jft Our voices sink in silence and in night.
Hear us, good Lord
Jft Jft In night, O God of a godless land!
Amen I
Jft jft In silence, O Silent God.
Selahl
Done at AtlanU^.m.Jhc.Djy. nl ,Hath. 1906.
commodations" are not provided, and
in which the conditions we seldom
sanitary or pleasant.
a
Must Contend for Rights.
(From Richmond Planet.)
We do not just understand the
position of Principal Robert R. Moton
in the matter There is no
other course to pursue than to con
tinue to contend for rights denied,
even though we are rebuked and dis^
appointed in so doing. No question
is ever Bettled until it is settled right.
We must continue to appeal to the
conscience of the American people.
We must continue to attempt to en
force our rights through the courts of
the land, even though some of them
may be prejudiced against us.
aK~
Servility Brings Contempt 1
(From the Union, Cincinnati, p.)
If the above is true (referring to
he "Moton Incident") then Major
._,._,. Voton will rise to fame and fortune American citizens are killed and who
car in which "equal ac- as did his illustrious predecessor, kills them.
-JS^^^A^^^^
$2.40 PEB YEAK.
W E. BURGHARDT DU BOIS.
"Crooking the pregnant hinges of the
knee that thrift may follow fawning"
brings wealth from the great masses
of white people alright, but it also
brings a vast amount of contempt.
There is so much bowing, cringing
and nauseating servility shown by
some of our people, is it any wonder
annointed, and therefore vastly supe
that even the 25th class of white
people feel that they are the Lord's
rior to all colored people?
THE HAND PICKED LEADER.
(From the Kansas Elevator.)
The Elevator would like to know if
the time has not arrived when colored
men should select their own leaders
instead of leaving the delicate task to
the hands of designing men of the op
posite race, and if any colored man
can serve two masters at one and the
same time, and if as a general proposi
tion, the "hand picked leader" is not
always against his race?
Shun Them as Vipers.
(From the Martinsburg Pioneer-Press)
Just as long as the negro believes
"he has a place," and is constantly
jerking off his hat when out of it, he
will be the cause of many others en
during hardships forever and aye. As
long as a certain class of whites take
to this class of sycophants, the more
rigidly those who wear their sover
eignty under their own hats, should
denounce, discard and shun them as
they would a viper.
All American Citizens.
(From Qur Dumb Animals, Boston,
Mass)
Four colored men shot to death
and two burned alive in Early county,
Georgia, December 30. Sam Bland
and Will Stewart lynched in Dodge
county, Georgia. Another colored
man hanged to a telephone pole in
Forest City, Arkansas. A colored
woman, Mrs. Cordelia Stevenson,
whose son was accused of burning a
white man's barn, taken from her
home and hanged by a mob near
Columbus, Mississippi.
A few weeks' record. All American
citizens. Had one of them been killed
on a steamship sunk by a submarine
what a flood of patriotic oratory
would have been poured forth in the
name of the "nation's honor." Appar
ently it makes a difference where
rJ*s-- -j^Si ^^JT^&^4&*S^^^-^*
4
a&s&ftL^
