THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair and cooler to-day; to-morrow fair
Mid cool ; westerly winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 77; lowest, 66.
Detailed weather, mall and tnai Inc. reportB on pass 4,
tin.
IT SHINES FOPv ALL
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 16.
NEW YORK, SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 1916. CoPir.17.((191..-y the St... rrHifliu, ami 1'ullhhtng AMortalion.
ONE CENT
In Greater New York, I
Jersey City ni( Newark, I
Klueithff)
TMO CENT.
BRITISH SMASH GERMAN THIRD LINE,
STORM THREE VILLAGES, TWO WOODS
ON FRONT OF SIX MILES ON THE SOMME
DEFENDS BRITISH ! PUBLIC TO BUY MILK
ACTION ON MAILS i ON A SLIDING SCALE
C. F. U. INDORSES BIG SYMPATHY STRIKE;
8,000 GOAL BARGE MEN TO QUIT TO-DAY;
TRADE ONIONS DECIDE WITHIN 48 HOURS
Lloyd (.corse Snyn Sferets of j Hortlen Company Will Pnr
Amcrirnn Mumifarturrs 'liasc From Dairymen on
Arc Not IHvulped. ' Monthly Hasis.
Flers, Coureclcttc and Mur
finimich Fall in Ter
rific Onslaught. '
GrXS DE3IOLISH
BIG TRENCH SYSTEM
AriuoiiMl Cars Follow iii
fan try in Assault on
Teuton Defences.
BAPAOE NOW ONLY
TOUR MILKS DISTANT
French Troops Tress On in
Encircling Move Around
Combles.
laiNpu.v, Sept. 15. Urltlsh troops
wept cverythlns lcfore them laat
nlilit nnd to-day, onpturlns threo vll
l.'Ecs, moct of two woods nnd Gorman
trrnchea .iloni; a front of tdx miles
north of the Sommc. It was the moat
important gnln tin; ISritlsli luvo made
since the battle of the Somnte began,
or. July 1. The German third line Is
bioken anil the GermatiH have- lewt the
ccnimamllns heights to which they I
.... ...
have clung fo deueratelv. I
ThA itPitut. h...... .u. ..n.
of Her, only four miles tZZrXTiZ th'aTco'uWrv ! note't'akilsissue with the position
llapaume. the Urltlsh objective In the are 'iooklT upo "'as" Hkliy 5 each" ail Hj-ln In dlstlnguUhlng twe.n sub-.-omtne
offensive. They have also enemv desilnatlon The list of problh-1 marines for war nnd those for conn nerce.
t.kcn Martlnpulch, Courcelette. all oflted Articles, he said, varies with cliff c r- Y nw",. xh ,? xen :"lrT'L !IJ
iii.i. a j, ... . ....... 1 h.u '1111 effect contrary to neutrality.
most all of the Ilotlleaux wood. More-
. .ti.ii Mi-m. ii-iuiiiiiiix wuuu unci
over. In desperate llt-'htinu thev '
stormed all the German positions on i
the high ground from Combles north
to the roucl from I'ozierea to llapaume.
The Urltlsh now look down upon their
enemy,
2.AUH I'rUniirn Taken.
1'rlsoners in great numbeis were
"i""'' " U1 '"em surrenciering
Iter the terrible Urltlsh bombardment mnrrage and other expenses Incurred by
that preceded the rush. The number ' taking su.pec:e.l ships Into Kirkwall and
l.ad reached 2,300 this evening and other ports for examination,
bore were comlnj; In. Of those al- So far as Is known, on machinery ex
rcadv counted slxtv-tlve were nltlcers I'ts at present for adjusting the-e claims.
and of tho sixty-flve otllcers six were
Majors.
The French troops north of the I
troops north of the
Summe continued to cooperate with the
Urltlsh In the encircling of Combles, i ... ...
taking a German trench system north s'"'r "'" - "
ol Lh Friez farm, pushing still further KxtnM of I'rulilliltlun.
t "lr claw of tho allied nippers about j Wasiiinuto.n, Sept. 13. -In tne ab
Combles. South of the Somme, near sence of information detailing what com-Utrny-en-Santerre.
the French took , modules are affected by the new Urltlsh
bice German trenches and 200 prla
mer?.
la speaking of the advance north of
L rrlez farm the French communique to
night says: "The advance. In conjunc
tion with the Urltlsh operations, marks
'he beginning of the encircling of Com
bles." it Armored Car ITsril,
The Urltlsh advance was unusual in
many ways, but chiefly because Halg's
troops used for the llrst time a type of
hcay armored automobile, which Is so
constructed that.lt cun cross trenches
and shell holes. It was very effective.
moving forward In support of the ad-1
cueing lines or khaki. Kven the Ger
mans chceied this new monster of trench
a r
Referring to this new weapon of war
t le the- Timri says:
"Our Inventors liuve not hesitated to
Peel unbeaten paths. We may Imagine
' i! feelings of German infantry In shell
battered tienrhes when In the uncertain
i Kht of dawn they saw advancing upon
"le-m an array of unearthly monsters
ci'td to steel, spitting fire and crawling
laboriously but ceaselessly over trenches,
I'jrbe, wire and shell craters."
The exploits of Urltlsh aircraft were
icnuikable. Flying close to the ground,
elai i's tho German artillery and ma
chine, guns, British aviators used their
tnfi hlne guns upon German artillery and
i-i)"ii the German Infantry In the
tie-n-hes, Hack of the. lines they fired
I'C'ti tioop tra ins with machine guns,
'ie-itivtn aviators were helpless before
' e-Mi. Thirteen German aeroplanes were
' 'roc ed, and one German kite balloon
ni'l nlnii German aeroplanes driven
el'"ni Four Urltlsh machines did not
le mi
Deluxe i f Mir I la l.nnnehed.
Moie the great attack the British guns
fa me lied against the German lines what
' "'i i-l'iinile nts at tho front describe as
l'ttiwly Hie most powerful cannonade
i r ! ii Somme battle started. Tho
II flie amounted to a perfect deluge
i .loslves of all sizes. The Ocr-i-iti
hud massed 1,000 guns, which is
1 ' - ins to the mile. The duel was
'.ir il mg, tot respondents say,
'Hie lliltlsh Infantry attack was be
t ai dawn, the Kngllsh, Irish, Scotch
d I Welsh troops all along the front
'"giiig forward on a line stretching
f'Mii il,e Comities sector to n point north
,,f ' Alliert-Hapauine road, a distance
i mil's.
I ' 'he first attack, In which some of
' bloodiest lighting took place, tho
"i took a whole half mile of Ger-
"i treurhes southeast of Thlepval, the
l 'hern extiemlty of the front, This
hi of German trench labyrinth was
' I'uvti as the Wunderwerk. The Ger
ii,.i h thought It Impregnable. Strong
e m ill forces defended the Wunder-
k hut tlie ltr!tl.li 1iooi1m.i1 nnrl hnvn.
"ie. their way through all It winding
" hes,
V other points in the line during the
Inn her the British arlvnlK-ed ulivwhere
mile to a mile and u half all
' il! tlie list remaining edge of the
' t.' iT.iiind silll held bv the GeimaUH.
in ini! gains wen- quickly consoll-
i ti
C'onfjiiiicci on J'Mni Page.
ENGLAND PUTS NEW BARS IN
WAY OF U. S.-HOLLAND TRADE
Lord Robert Cecil Explains Dutch and Scandinavians
Have Already Received More Than Normal
Supply of Certain Commodities.
London, Sept. 15. The plan of in
tionlng the neutral countilc of Norway.
Sweden, Denmark nnd Holland, under
which no further lleenres will be gt anted
for the present to British exporters, has
been extended to apply to the Culled
States by tho expedient of retiming to
allow the Netherlands Oversea Trust to
accept further American consignments '
1 unit ny ileellnlug to grant letter of as-
suruncc lor American shipments t cat nctl '
for these countries,
In
consequence' American shipments
olland will be further t estrlcted. !
' for I loll
! while the regular transportation com
pante. trmlliiR lictween the l ulled States
and Smnrilnnvlit will mil tilt. imh.
without insurances of their liihoo'Mt 1
destination by the Urltlsh authorities.
Furthermore, tramp steamers arc hardly
likely to risk tho Inevitable landing In
the pilze court of any cargo they might
accept.
Orders rr Limited.
Lord Itohert Cecil. Minister of War
Tiaile, esplainltrg to-day the new orders,
mid they apply only to certain prohibited
articles and not to trade In general.
tlreat IIiIIhIii has forbidden the ex
port of various articles to F.uropeau neu
trals on the ground that they have al-
leady received In the first seven months I
........ ...v.... i.ir. rnui ilnNnii--,
of this year mote than an ordinary ear,a,
supply. Lord Robert said It was not
toclral to forbid such evnoi Is flotn
Great Urltaln and to permit them fiom
Amlca nnd other neutral sources.
Lord Robert explained that one neutral 1
.' ..
miTen I,, ......n ,.,ti.y nf tt.i . .. r ,.i.
Ul-irm cuuiunes. iiccurtllUM io wiiai ivi t
already had Imported, allowance, being ,
made lor imports lonnei iy maue ironi
lr,lm" l'01"'"-
I'Imii Simple for Kujilnnil.
Neutral diplomats here believe two tiUv because they have no commercial
reasons Induced the IlrllHli Government uubnmrlnee."
to take this action. The first Is the slm- !
pllclty of the plan, which erables tho t; uw arrival In American waters of
Government to control supplier at the the Deut-ehlind the United States Gov
smirce. The second l the growing bill eminent announced that the submatlne
with which Great Urltaln I being
P,... .... nt.,rn .r,ni fnr ,1.
a" l"a' of M11,-!" 'oea never actually I
rearh l"'z'' cour' ,
nm-nr, .
II lOttiiV try Wi M vixiii IjU. j
restrictions on American trade with Ho'
land und the Scandinavian countries of-
flclals here are uncertain Just how heav- coma ercal purposes Is clearly estah
Ily American exporters will suffer. Steps Ilslied by evident facts. The protest of
to obtain this Information were taken the Kntente referred especially to the
to-nlglit, and It was Indicated that regulations covering submarines entering
sr.oniu any sn replug rirn.noii or rr-.
strletlve measures be revealed It would
be regarded as a serious development In
i- r . i. -
MRS. E. H. HARRIMAN
GIVES ARDEN TO SON
.... . . .. .....
nt'iiii tiiiil !s.,immmmhi ignite in
Hiiiimpo Hills Present to
W. Avcrell.
liostiK.v, N. ) ., sept, i.i, i lie con -
sldcratlon being "love and affection," . Lightning from a sunny sky explodeel a
Mrs. K, H. llarrlman in a deed dated ' magazine of the Du Pont powder works,
August 3, 1916, has transferred to her ; half a mile from this town this after
son, William Averell llarrlman, the noon. Ilent Dn Viles, aged 25, was
palatial mansion, Arden House, on the j killed and twenty other men, three of
mountain summit overlooking the Ham- j whom will probably die. wrrn seriously
apo Valley and all tlie sui rounding injured, The lightning was so vivid
country for a hundred miles,
The gift Includes the 2.500 ntrej of
glft includes the .'.&uo ncrej or
luieni. lane .toil rin-.iio ,ivi..k i i.k i"
the home. Arden lloue is known the
country eiver as the dream of the late
i:. H, Harilman, who projected It as Ills
Ideal country home, but which was still
uncompleted at the time of his death.
Tlie work was carried on to completion
according to his plans mid designs,
The cost of the mansion and the value
of the extensive grounds are estimated
at 5,000,000. Since his marriage some
monins up juhok .hi. i i.i. i no-... no .
his wife hme resided In n wing of Arden
Mouse wmcn was annen nu men- in
cupancy.
The eleed making this ren al knble
transfer has been placed on record In
the county clerk's olllce nt uosnen anu
Is stated to be a real estate transaction
representing the largest money valua -
tlon ever knon-n In Orange county.
FORD AIDS CHILD CRIPPLES.
trta Aside Notional Fund for Treat
ment nf Poor Suffrrera.
Wr.l.i.rsi.KT, Muss., Sept. 15, An- j ground,
tiouncement that an unlimited fund lias There have been eleven explosions In
been set aside by the Ford Motor Com-1 tlie Pit Pont plants nt Haskell or Ponrp
pany of Detroit to bo devoted to the Ion Lakes since tilling of war orelers be.
treatment of crippled children throughout1 win. Nineteen persons have been killed
the e-ountrv. was made to-day by the and sevenly-flve badly hurt,
I Bev. Samuel K. Miireiuls, head of tho
Ford educational department, speaking
I nt a conference of business men here.
! 11,, H.il.1 ll fund orltrltiallV h.lll been
erenled for the use of crippled in tho
families of the employees of the con-
eern. Another fund had been piuvlded,
liu said, to be devoted to poor elilldien
throuvhout the country who need treat-
ment.
the controversy over the lcgallt) of al
'.led blockade methods.
No letiort cm the now order has romc
., . . , 1 1 1 . . .1....'.
through olllelal channel?, but to-day s
news despatches regarding It were called ,
to the attention of the British Kmbass)
by State Departnient officials with In-(
I:i,pe,,o1fh,'be 'o. "Tt WJ '
s m lar Invest sat on would be inaue ,
through the American Kmbassy at Urn-
-
'iiiciais expressed miicu iuikhh
' l.!rdet''Wd
the leport that the nev
completely rut off trade, with Ho'.'atid
,, lously cripple that with the ican-
illnavlan countries. In komo iuarters It
as suggested that the piesetit na u
paitlcularly Inopportune time for pro-
! ..,.,t..iln.. .iimI. rU,ici. illll Unrtl-fit'iri'
uiulxntlng such a decree, with Sec retary
Lansmc studying Intricacies of the new
legislation under which the executive ,
branch of the Government I" empowered
to take urnstic retaliatory acuon nKainsi
nations Interfering with Atnci lean trade. '
While American exports to Holland
have been greatly curtailed by a series
if Urltlsh orders a considerable trade.
especially In foodstuffs. I" done with
that country. Wheat, Hour, coin, basic
cilia and tobacco are among the most j
Important articles sent there. (
PROTEST TO SWEDES'.
.....l.l nff
FruutT Ol.jerl. to Hecognlllon of
Com in ere In I Subninrtnes.
....
!RI hC , , T l ii M tnUter at
S.Vekholm to loin with the other Kt.tente
CKlioim to join wmi ine "" r
Minister in presenting a friendly
"nn note to Sweden III regard to
Its
. .. c-.aic. nnv.il fnw... wnnl.l
"J "B 'VVermein subiimrlne
I In Swedish waters under the pretext that
tt might he a coniiiiercl.il submarine,
whereas there would be no similar hesl-,
Ir.llon In ilealltiv with 11 submarine of the
would not be regarded as a warship.
Mirilrii Is Ilenn n I.
LovrsiN, Sept 15. The Swedish Gov
ernment's reply to the representations of
the l.ntente Ministers concerning Swed
ish measures to preserve the neutrality
r Swedish tenltorlal waters has Wen
published, says a lleuter despatch from
ockl.olm. The ,rply. the despatch says.
oispines in a format manner tne sugges
tlon that there I, any difference In the
o b r' f tie ,".M . 7
could lie regarded as Incompatible with
the duties of a loyal and impartial neu
ttality Itegaidlng subm.iilnes the reply con
tends that all are treated as war sub
marines unless their employment for
rmruisii n.ui-i (, .inn inn laying Ol a ,
n.lne Held off Kosrundrenden, In the
I southern sound.
I
- . - j
I LIGHTNING EXPLODES
mi rtAirm mi mn
III lIIIU'l' Ml n I ' II ' I M It
1SU 1U1U mnUAZilllD
.. ..... .
Mno .Man Killed nnrt 20 Kurt.,
.'1 Perltnps Moitnlly. Nenr
Pompton Lakes.
1 immitov I.akrs, N, ,1 , Sept.
nnd the i oar and concussion of tho eom-
, Lined thunder and exnlnslon trrin..
,n,., . ,,
"lal PTsotis for miles ground thought
their own homes had been struck.
Another bolt hit the main office at
me wu roni plant, shattering one side
of " breaking light and telephone wires
and showering glass on tho office force.
, wic, of thunder storms shook the
, itamupo .Mountains fiom S to C o'clock
When tlie first started the superintend
mis oiuereti an ine l,.i(in emtiloveea In
I the buildings scattered over the' fifteen
, sepiare miles or inn company s nronertv
... .,. i ..... . ' . '.vl'iiw
to amn wum .tun i-.iKe reruge in shelters
1 provided for such emergencies.
The rain had stopped and the sun was
i sinning tnrougn ureaklng clouds when
the two holts fell. It Is supposed that
1 some of the workers had left the Bhel-
i''if alio we. i- passing ine nricic maga
7lne. that blew up when the first bolt
struck,
In tills magazine were stored a.tn
pounds of powder for fulminate caps.
Tim magazine was separated by 200
yards from other structures, and where
I It stood there Is now only a holo In tho
- -
More lln I'ont Mm llnrl.
Wii.minoto.v, Del,, Sept. IS, Nineteen
oouiter u'nrkei-u u-era l.tnttr,,! L
them seriously, by the explosion of sev-
rial thousand pounds of smokeless pow-
eler at the plant of Hie Du Pont Powder
Company at Carney's Point, N. .1,, to-
night. Fire, which followed, destroyed
tho blending tower of th plant.
-AMES OK UMAX AUBXTS,
Deelarcs Prevention of Tnulc
With Enemy Is Only Unsis
of Surveillance.
London, Soi.t. 15, David Lloyd'
HI
George, British Secretary of War, Is- j '," uPn something brand new In whole
sued to-day the following statement: H,,,H '"Ilk buying yesterday, by making:
"There appears to be a deliberate cam-
palgn, set on foot In the United States
by Uernuu agents, to throw doubt on
, . ... .......... .. .
mini ui 1 ip ...icji my uumui'
... ... .
""it regard to "' ' Informntlon
obtained through the censorship,
"Thea? liermun agents, with wliuc
method, of working we are
!"'" uemma., appear now m nave rcsu.
lected my statement In
the House of
Commons on August S
.ilthmich that
"tntemrnt was fully explained by Lord
Kobert Cecil, Minister of War Trade, on
August and most explicit assurances on
,no nnmr ,jfc,, W(.r Rvrl, Dv ,m
Interview on Auiru.t "5 '
u mi. r imirvien on ugu.i .u.
l.lojd (ieorgr Itrtrnets.
In spite of this these propagandists
are trying to dress nut my statement us
someimng new. nullifying lud Robert
CcoII'h assurances which followed It.
l.et me now say on behalf of the military
authorities what hat already been said
on hehulf of the Foreign Ofllce thJt ,
when Information Is passed on by the
censorship to other departments It Is for
the sole purpose of guiding tho action of
the Government In the conduct of the
war
"For Instance, when we get Informa-
lion that an American firm to whom the
1 1 ' " v Olt.e I IH S gl VCI1 U IWI m 11 IOT I Ml'
VMwn ()f l.lir(a) ,.orn,,,' K0(N fron
Itotteidam on the ground that these
oods hurt l.nti tintil C,t. lifn.. tl... ..
U"IS ,lwt l"mlt fraudulently, as
'l-auenlly has been the case, we pass
the information on to the Foreign Olllce
In order that they may cancel the permit.
-.vgain, wm ii we nml that a neutral
tlrtn Is using Urltlsh banking facilities
tor the purpose of trading with our ene
mies and Is deceiving the Urltlsh banks
In question '" 'be li-al purjma.. of llix
transaction, we pass on that Information
to tho proper department In order that
rc",':' H""" V." .,rn" "
tlon. Or, again. If we learn that a shlD-
ment or contraband, ostensibly from one
nVutwInrm lo imihrr ' r",eaUy destined
' .
neutral nrm to another. Is leally destlnei
for the enemy, we see that the contra
band committee gets that information,
stand by Trade Secret.
"That, frankly stated. Is what we do. I Monday morning calls. It wns conceded that the strike mu-t go
Hut we atl'.rm, and challenge any one to lit the past there has been a fixed ' to piece-.
deny It. that honest business Interests price for milk all the year round, during ' The meeting was lo begin st 1 M..
and trade secrets of an American mer- months of surplus as well ns of shortage, i but the strike leaders. Messrs. Flu
chant cm manufacturer are as H:,f,. n If the plan Is carried out the price will ernld. Ilohm. James V. Holland, prrsl
the hands of Hie inlllt.-ny cvn-ors and of Kt, ,0wn during the months when the, dent of the State Federation of Labor;
evciy other Government department as ,ow s more than doing her duty and itJ. I', O'Hrlen and John MrGrath, or
they are in the hands of the American' will go up during the period when she . ganders of the carmen's Amalgamated:
post olllce " cannot get out to grass or Is busy with Louis rrldlger, counsel for the Amal-
In the House of Commons Augut
Mr. Lloyd George, In answer to ques
tions concerning the use made of a letter
written by a neutral manufacturer and
c '1 ... the u,S7.rngt
examined by the military renoi- said
'be debate, that the letter In question
not niioweti t,i proceed to us destination.
Hut," the War Secretary added, "it l
of com c. the practice to communicate
In the public department concerned any
Infoi uiation on matters of public Interest
whleli may be obtained thinugh the con
sulship, for such use to be mado of It as
the particular department may consider
desirable. This was done In this In-
stnnce.'
. . , . ,. .,,',
"0tt?r3
"'"."''. " ,
ence In no single Instance had been used
to assist Rrltisli competition with peace-
i rut neutral commerce, in a miiirainu
'Issued on August 25 Lord Robert re-1
l..Pu..a .l.nt .lilj fmm trnAn lotlMt- liuil
been used solely for Government pur-1
! 'ltrSlAZSZ:
smuinw morn iiu.iv ....
KAISER'S NEPHEW KILLED.
f I--...,..lnl ' 1 1 I . ... If.... i
lies in HHlhnni,
Itr.nt.tN, via London. Sept. 1."., Prince
Fredeilck William of Hesse has been
killed at Cata ormau, It was otllclally
announced by the War Ofllce to-clay In
Its report on operations on the Balkan
front.
Prince Frederick William of Hesse
was a nephew- of the Kaiser, He was
born In 1S!)3 at Frankfort-on-the-Maln. i
the eldest son of Prince Frederick Charles perhaps take care of the surplus, which
of Hesse and Princess Margaret, sister now goes Into butter and cheese,
of the Ihnperor. Ile was r.-iKirted i "W e want to encouraga the buying
wounded in tho lighting In France In pf milk. The more we. can handle at a
September. I'.MI, ' f;,lr Jfoflt the more money we can
Prince Frederick William Is the sec , make." .,,..
ond Prince of Die house of llesse to be ' Mr. Halsey. tbe Pliefrield I-arms vice
iiin.i in the war time Maxiinllleii i mesldent. wasn't satisfied that Mr. Hal-
fulling on a French battlefield in Odo -
ber, fill. Seven other German Princes
nave iieen Kliie.i during ine w.w two in
HHXe-.vienmigen, nine or i.ippe. one or
lleuss and one of Wn ck,
$10,000 TO $5,000 ON HUGHES.
Hveit Vloney tlfferrd nn Whitman
In Wall Street,
The first big bet on the outcome of the
Presidential campaign that has been
m ine in iv an ncreei was pntreii yesier
i ., ttAnAA ,.. If. nn.i ti...
, ""j- " t,v-" "
Hughes would be elected, or In
that
ther
words, 2 to 1 ngnlnst Wilson,
words i to 1 HEnlnst Wilson.
' l'.Uv'.nil teOim.1e. I..ttlim eonltnl-j.
sinner, is ficely quoting - to 1 on
Hughes, with plenty of Itepuhllcan
money in sight. Tlio Wilson money h
not so much In evidence, and backers of
(he President arc holding off for odds of
2tj to 1
The betting on Whitman and Seabury
Is "even nior.ev. lake vour choice."
DOWNS SIXTEENTH 'PLANE.
French l.leiHeiiBii t Dial liigiilahc
lllmaeir In Sc.mme llnt.le.
,,,g;rinnr;r,,n,i:ed1?'-T,,c War mue ,u -
"Our aviators nn Hie Sommo front ills-
tlngulshed themselves tn-diiy, purlieu-
Inilv In numerous combats above tho
enemy's Hues, Lieut. Guynemer felled
his sixteenth, Lieut, Nungesser his
I'welftli. Lieut, Heiirtnux his Sixth ami
Lieut, do llothefnrt his sixth aircraft,
wlillc in a recent light II Is confirmed
that Lieut, de Ullln won his sixth victory,"
FAKMEIW TO flKT '"CARMEN TO BE
Otlier Win Distributers Halt
Contracts Say Plan Will
Revolutionize Trade.
Borden's Condensed Milk Company
""era at their country mlll stations of
I'rlces which they will give for milk for j
'e month of October only, lleietofore.
nil milk dlstr.bulcr.i have contracted
with producers on October 1 and April
I at fixed prices for the succeeding; six
months. Henceforth the company will
try the experiment of bidding In the
middle of each month for the following
montli's supply
i lorcien s oner for milk to be delivered
rltiK October was just a little short
pile,.' tecelved by the fanner's during the
i orrcsiiumllng tuontli a enr ngo. The
famieis dfmand nearly a cent Increase. 1
fommls-loiivr John J. Dillon of the '
State Department of Foods and Markets
...... ....
Insists that they
;ire golrg to hold out
tor it.
n,e moxe f thf Horden people was
such a radical one "revolutionary,"
some of the distributers called It that
the Shettield Farms-Slawson Pecker '
Commnv ehaimed Its mind nhoui send. I
Ing out Us offers yesterday for milk for 1
the next six months, sml Is nnw murk.
lug time,
Meld I'p Their Price.
"When we heard that Horden was
going to buy milk by the month," lien
J.imln S. Haley, vice-president of the
Shettield Farm" company, said, "we
held up our prices for two or three days
io tntiik things over. We had planned
to pay a little more than half a cent '
a quart Increase on the basis of six
months' contracts.
The Mutual-McPermott Dairy Corpo-1
riillnn thfl tMr.f ..r k.
distributing concerns which retail more .
than half of the greater city's dally
.,.,011.11011 quart" of milk. nKo held back 1
Its prices to proilueeis which it Intended
to gle out yesterday. The company
I.Au .letlueil in iair lis offers.
Not only have the Borden people taken 1
radical action In the matter of buying:
milk, but they will attempt something '
tleW in relalllllP milk. The tentntlv
"nLmptallon-Htncl H. N. ,
la loi-k. vice-president of the company.
i insists that this. too. will be purely ex-
perlmental provides for a weekly retail
price for milk to be announced by drivers,
Of lllllk UMITilllB m'hen lhv tnatrA lhtf
Ihe cares of motherhood, I
To Kncoarage Haying.
The cardinal principle of the plan, as
i villained hv Mr llnlloel.-. Is to ..nrmir. I
"hen prices are low. so that
t ".eH of ..verproductlon the supply of.
'or tho present and until further no
tice," Mr. Ilallock said, "we will publish
monthly the price" which we can offer
for mill: for the
this October we
following month. For'(nv Sllllll'(lrtlllllOII' ll I NOW
will give twenty cents ' '
per loo pounds In excess of tho price
last )ear. This Is not quite half a cent
a ejuart Increase. It Is the best price
that the farmer has ever received for his
milk during October '
"The nlileil whnliaulA in ( m.ni. il, t
"J'"; V , n" ' V, i
crease' Mr. Ilallock was asked,
"Naturally," Mr. Ilallock replied, "but
we ratni i iniium in whui we man 1111.
I am now working for a weekly retail
lirlf.. U'. lire tinu HAltlno- hllttr nwl '
eggs at prices which we announce once I
a week tn our branches. I believe we ,
c.uK.n ... .. :..o. -,. m. we
try a weesiy suoing scaie it win ne only
... .... ., ' .. .1.. . ' I
wit i me mea oi ri mi; ine rxiieirinieni. -
I see no reason why It wouldn't vrork
! satisfactorily to all concerned. It would
mean lower prices when milk Is plentiful
and higher prices when the supply is cur
tailed. The average price wouldn't be
any greater In the long run than the av
erage Is now.
Won Id I'ar I'p Sarplai.
"I do tictieve iniit in times or over-1
production a reduction In retail prices
would result In consumers buying more
.1.,,., .h.ir ......I .nnnic- n.wi hi. -,,i,i
1 lock's plan would vvotk and he wouldn't I
ellse-ttss Its possibilities. He said his
concern . n ... i """ 'o'- , e,
com puny iniciinrii 10 un, noi wiuu 11 inn
done bad made It necessary for the
, s'.helllelil I-itrms oeonle to ".in anioe
thinking."
Mr Ilallock explained that It wouldn't
be known until Monday or Tuesday ex
actly how tho Ilorden company will
suit eed in making monthly contracts
with prniliiceis for milk, He was hope.
ful, however, that the plan will work I
out satisfactorily.
Commissioner Dillon wasn't com lured I
that the big companies were honestly
acting like bona fide competitors with no
knowledge beforehand of what the other
fellow was doing. He declared that the
Horden plan was similar lo one lie had
suggested a year mid a half ago.
The Commissioner said:
"There may be Individuals and sec-
Hons where the distributers can get
milk at their own prices, but the great
. bulk of the league members will make
contracts on termi of the producers
I unlv.
! EMPRESS CALLED TO FRONT,
j w ,1(. v; t(
: - - -
I.onhon, Sept. 1,1, A despatch to the
1 Kxchiinge Telegraph from Amsterdam
1 says:
1 ''German newspapers announce that
, Kmpress Augusta victoria lias been
summoned to the eastern headquartets
by llmperor William, and passed through
Hreslau yesterday on the Journey from
Berlin. It will be her first visit to tho
eastern front"
BY 75,000 TRADE WORKERS
New Walkout Sanctioned by the Unanimous Vote of
200 Central Federated Union Delegates 35,000
Longshoremen to Quit at Once.
1 rt l,u"",r, J dK"1" to I'10 Central
...i.on .m-ciung '
Labor Temple. 213 Haft l'lghty-fourth
Micet, by unanimous vote s.inctlomd a
genet nl sympathetic strike to aid the
carmen,
'inest llolini, secretary of the ('. F. I.".,
announced at 11 :3i I. M. that between
this morning and Monday morning
T.r.,Oiio union labor men In trades di
rectly affecting the running of subway,
elevated and burf.iio cat lines will (jo on
"tr'l?,e.. ...
ndoisement, takin by union
I"1"''- virtually a strike on
,JI"M fou'' provisions, t'list, t
ler, con-
tho sym-
I'athy strlkf of all organUe.l wage earn-
within the jurisdiction of the C. V. V.
Is "sanctioned." Second, tidewater boat-
....... I ......1. . I. ... a t . . .11
'"F" an" sutii oiner iraoes as nirecny
assist iransii uiu-i operation are ioki 10
go out at once.
Third, a general boy-
ott of the traction companies i planned.
Fourth, a commlttco of strike leaders
vvtll call on Fullce Commissioner Woods
and protest against what thev say has
been tho maltreatment by the police of
striking carmen,
The announcement of the decision of
the C. F. U. was received with loud
cheering when It was given out by Sec
retary llohin. Strike leader Fltxgerald
was hoisted upon the shoulders of some
of his men.
Carmen In .lubltallnn I'aradr.
Hundreds of strlklnc carmen that line!
been awaiting the news In the streets .
near the Uibor Temple raised a yell and ,
inarched off by fours. The liollre wurned
them against too much exuberance. Sud-
,1.1,1., i. . tn.i- iif.. t. ......
nut Into n sacirlnir strike.
The collapse or expansion of the
transportation lines' strike admittedly
depended upon the action taken by the
Central Federated Union ill Us meeting
last night Strike Leader Fitzgerald and
most of the Important local trade union
chiefs had staked their cause cm the
probability that the C. F. U. would ad-
.IBA onlr... I,,!...,. u.,u.-a1l.. ti ttntU not
n s nipatl, y will XUc TmUw carmen.
The 'estimates as to the effect that a
strlku recommendation from the C. F. U.
would have varied from a walkout of
40.000 men to a strike of 400,000. With-
n... .l.flnll. nnnpr.i.nl nl Cl.n C I. T?
gamated , James Vatiey. representing tne
Amalgamated of Massachusetts, and J
nifml t mtrrWn inPIIf
AKiLUPlA IT EC IO LAC ff , I
SAILING DATE CHANGED
Won t Ho Coinmissioncil
Tn til Of lolicr 15.
Dltllculty experienced In getting n
crew, it was learned yesterday at the
Navy Yard, Is the reason the super-
, , .,, ... ... .mi . i.p foin.
dreadnought Arl na wll not .e com
missioned Until October It' lilts s .1
minor disappointment, however, as the
,...,,.,. i ...mnteilnir her vesterday.
. ...- nf h.nlnB
-.. - - ,
. j.. nnr...nt.al..n tit the Oil. !
ner reauy iui vvo.ooc,-
nnlnteil time.
Another matter of satisfaction to the
,, i
builders Naval Constructors t.enige 1.
ItOCK anil J. I-., liaue; li no r.i.ina
the Government or i.uuu.i.uo, wmcn i"
tstlmated on the actual cost or construe-1
tlon as compared with the lowest bid of
nnrn. in strlvlnc for sneed
ii.i.int. .
and economy 111 consirucinin mo nun. n-i s " .. i-. i
, furthermore had to compete for laborl ''' stimulate, lee-rultlng : that,
with the private yard", which have been'""'" will be more likely to enlist If
I .i..t,,t.. native ,.f lnte they know they are likely to remain
The battleship. Cant. John McDonald
commanding, was structu.-ally r.-ady to
sa l yesterday, but failure to obtain a full
.lew despite the activity of le.-rulllng
a-ents was 'orescen two -veeks ago
,,i th.. or.lernostnonlngthedateof sad-,
. it a
ing followed.
" ,
seeretnry nctoarvelt l.iplaliis.
Washimiton. Sent, 1.". Assistant
tM.Velt said to-night the
,.iii..nUv lbout iiiiivldlnir
ou'l . ' ." 1 ""L: X, A i,o
. m11 ton -
One hundred and twenty men nro cm
board already and the ret will gradually
be taken on between now and evtobcr
If., when she hoists the ting and goes to
Join tho fleet
It generally takes a moiuii to gsi oro
visions and ammunition nboaid and havei
everything shipshape and tills explains
USE POISON OAS CIGARETTES.
C'rct.iUa I'.liiplov r Mellinel to
Overeomr Their Vlelt-
Ai.iiAS'r. Sent. 1.'., "Poison gas1 ciga
rettes ale the latest tnni-t in rnis im
have designs on otlier pel sons' iiioncv
, according to the report received nj itie
Albany police tn-uay. ,-viiiiniii ,ni.iii
gal, ii'shoi'iiiaker, was sitting in 111 shop1
when two moil entered. I lo drag on and nn at least for a eir
After engaging him In cnnvcisntlon, ,, ,1Illf lllllrl, ,. nf ihp ,.m.nl,',aK.
In tlie course of which they lent peel that , ,nR lf,ndtlons Is the domestic demand
he had his savings of U-on In his hlpif(. Htl. ,,, other Indiistrlal product c"
pocket, he says they began to blow the jlr, Frlck was outspoken In praise of
smoke of cigarettes they were using in 1 MKhea and predicted his election, env
hls face. He became dizzy and then iMB n,e lesulls In Maine were gratifying.
dazed, he says, and when lie recovered
himself the men and the money weie
gone.
Four Mm nob 11 link nf (I,IIHI,
Miami, Fla,, Sept, I,". Four men held
up the cashie r of a bank at Homestead,
Fla., nt noon to-day, robbed the safe nf
iti.nOO and escaped In an automobile,
posses are In pursuit.
REEN FORCED
others, did not urrive fioni the Hotel
Continental conference until '.'M0 I'. M.
Ucfore their arrival the Central Fed
erated I'tilon, with the 200 delegates
from organized labor present, held their
regular weekly meeting. When the
sttlke chiefs arrived the newspaper ie-
porters In attendance on the open ses-1
slon were asked to leave, and the C. F :
U. went Into executive session to de-,
clde whether or not a general strike1
ro.iiiivi m'c iduviru. .ioi 11'"
entlal labor union ollleinls of tho city
were In the secret meeting.
Although at the outset a strike older
was anticipated no one. In authority
cared to predict what would happen.
The teporters wero told that a decision
might be reached by 1 1 I' M.. but that
the xtatement might be delayed.
Mr. Fitigcrald and his lieutenants as
serted th.it the C. F. P. action metiiit
victory for the Amalgamated.
Stalrotenl by
I
, ierretry.
by Secretary
Tho statement Issued
llolmt waa an follows :
"We recommend to the central bodies
of Greater New York and vicinity the
Central Federated Fnlon of New York,
the Central Labor Union of Hrooklu,
the Yonkers Federation of Labor, the
Central Labor Union of Mount Vernon,
the Central Labor Union of White
l'lalns nnd the Central Labor Union of
New ltochelle a sympathetic strike of
all organized wage earners In their Ju-
tNdl.Hon
In support of the: contention
of the street lallway men for tho right
to organize.
"We teconunend ns a preliminary to
tl.c ge neral Mrlke that all unions, such
ilk l tit,w:it ee ttuatnii'ii alhl lonLrstiore-
.men, the Intel national llrothcrhood of
teamsters, engineers, nrcmen, plumpers
aun sum outer iraoes wuose iiinur is
keeping tlie traction powers running,
stop work, and we guarantee to support
thrill fllialM Iall to thtt t lid.
"We have also decided on u general
boycott of atl the roads In the strike
district of New ork city, anu a com
mlttee of live will organize a system of The unions swung their heaviest
picketing. The body has also decided Weapon last night win n in a tetilpestu
tbat all union are to ke.p In touch , on s meeting thn Central Feelerate il
with the secretary of this body relative ' ( nion ctmtrollltig picibaldy Tuo.Olnl
to the strike situation .'workmen, following the enuise of tho
"The action of the police was discussed , ... , , ,, .. ,.
-their interference with the strikers and , ''' entlal I-ibor t.lon; lu-
ll.le nrr.feell.iti of ll.n IImil-s .,l.,l tin. dorsed tllO Sympathetic strike I eClilll-
! men. A committee of the will rail on '
the I'ollce Commissioner !n the morning,
' The committee l. composed of C c,
Sha, national pteshb'tit of the Theatrical
tage i.mpnoees i nun. aouu muiiiv.ui
of the brew-cry workmen
James I'. Ilol-
land, president of the New York State
IVdetatlon of Labor, and IMward e'as-
sidy and K. C Hyblckl of Typographical
Union No. tj '
lllin ITTirTO DDITIOU
KUUU lAUCO DAI i J JO
PLAN OF LOCAL ARMY
(it'iii'i'iil Would Hccriiil lcj;i
nii'iils in l)isti'ict. Kike
London Kifls."
Wahiivotov, Sept. 15 A plan tn
Khe regiments of the legutai aimy In
illlduallty by teerulting each one In a
specific loealltv, perhaps giving li a
name Identifying it with that teglon.
""'I Jhen keeping the regiment in the
State whete it was lerinlted except in
ease t .-meigen.
hns been suggested
Mnjiir-Gen,
Leonard Word and li
'-oo- "'iioi'i
i........ . ......i.i... ...i
erloush by the Gen-
,',aI,,liM',f , , , , , , ,
I lie Idea is derived from the HrltMi.
u,ir0,nnlrr ,,,,. ,B.
i.ioiiers nun tneir l.onnoM l(llie, l lie
""mo . . i. ... ......u
'ii'i.iiiiiii -'iiiis.e-iier-.. io.- i.n.ohiv ,
lli'ml.aidlers or the ".leisey skeeters
Gen. Wood, while he suggests no such ,
.".iri.,.,,,, ... rii.ii!uiii:
' m nop e. am iiiai anouier aiivaiiinge
' uimuing up or tne soiuieis
l'rll'n ", V,1,c1,1' VrK"nlJif tlo"s' J'""
, HN tbe Urltlsh Johnn e swells up when
1,0 mentions his membership In a crack
M'-'"11".1' . . ...
' i namners nt i nmmcree in I tan al-
r(.:y have sent offers to the War He-
paitme-nt lo viiivlilo enough enlistments
fo. thi.-e-fOUIIhs of a regiment, pro-
1 v Ided it be a I tab regiment, with only
i inn .ne... .inn in ne ... in i. ic-ie i-wcpi
for wars or i nine is of wars.
- -
FRICK SEES ROSY FUTURE.
..... . . . .
l-rosperl.,- to I ootlni.e nod lthe.
tic Will, Ilia Predictions,
PlTTKIII'llll, Sept l.'i II
Flick n.llll
p.ttshtng a living visit yesletd.n and
before his depiirtut e lat niglit e'Xpi esi d
1 liuiie. Ile said
"The tltiancl.il, Industrial nnd gcueial
Itu.illou Is lu-t splendid; mi could not
wish for better The invent excessive
prospeilty is due to smne extent to the
I.,., I I...II..W. .......Iltlr..,. ..II .
.,...' . . ...... ...... ...... .
lllllie SO '! I 'till fill" llie.v Hill HUH s
we have too much labor agitation The
railroad crisis apparent!) Is ended un
less the Aibini"on bill Is found uncon
stitutional, which Is not altogether Im-
i. .i.i..
.rll) 'K,t,0!, jiu,-,,,,,. ie certain
Trnnalt llrnrlnir la Adjourned.
The Hoard of I'stlmatc hearing on the
iliange of the Fulton slteet car lines
in Brookl) u from Ashland plate to the
extension of l'latliush avenue- was again
adjourned until Dee-ember la, as tho
I'llblln Service Commission has not yet
been able to dlactp. tlie report nt Its
committee on the suhjtct.
I
Labor Federal ion in Siorni.v
Meeting Advises 700,000
Members to AValk Out. ,
MFXITIOX MKCUANICS, '
15.000. VOTE TIEUB
Service Hoard Rhunes 3d
Ave. Men; Orders Them
Back lo Work.
.
i If I,' pU pT TUfOKEN
BY CARMEN IS CHARGE
Shots Fired at Sixth Ave,
1 Train Imperil Many
Passengers.
Strife between the traction com'
panic's and union lalsir has come tcj
i-uch a pass that within forty-elglitj
hours. It was genet ully agreed lasf,
night. New York will know whethef
the car strike loaders nro lo produce)
an Injurious general strike or arc tn
ciult the struggle.
There Is every te.isnn to believe tin!
decisive stage of the controversy ban
been reached. The ability of the In
terboroitgli to tn tltitalu It- "long haul'
service and of other c ciriip.inle.x lo 111
cr.aM(. their surface
cat- service has.
fotred the iiiiIoih lo their last trenchesj
and brought them to the point where)
they must make good tneir threat to
putalyzo certain isseiitlal trades or
admit, defeat.
meiulntlon Issued by the labor chiefs lit
conference at the lintel i ' uitliu-iual
nnd aclvlseel nil locals t,i walk out nml
so eb their bit In "protecMivr the vi ry
,f(. f ,inion libor in New Yd Is city."
Mrll.r llefereiiiliini lleitlita To-ila.
The loi-als mi.hi i. i. ti uuRtcts,
lougshoivnii'ii. itiKinier. tl-.-nn-ii, n
name onl a few will ta'.e 11 feiendutil
on the Indioscnii'iit pa'iil along to tlieni
lo the C I'. I'., an Imloi 'i nnni so po-
tent as to amount. n iu.illv . to an order.
, Some of tlieni will vole lii-da, some to-
mot low. otli.-is w .11 defer nt Doting until
. e.nly next weel,. liui the -intinient nC
uiiliui laboi Ki.in-r.ill Its intention or it
j lefusal tr. Ii.u k up the i iimu-.i o wnrk-t
(as well a words- li.ml.1 . .-i deh
. nitcly nianii.-vti-ii tiy .Mond iv So far an
i ltt.-tlg it'll- con,, I I... li -,i ,t! t. lit
tlie spit it Is for Ml ile
Not ev. n the most llei of the labor
. nur chiefs at the Hotel Continental ex.
I pert tint Tiii'.iim Ion I ii.oi- men wll
. quit tier Jobs, but Hi. v do i ' ii't on from
Siiii.noii to lno.niiii It. th. l,i..t , ininlty
Appaicilh tne ,pi.i Min fie In
' that assumption, and take II-. li infornia-
tlon straight fi -ni the ...tn. ils of tb
, imp.ut.int lo.-al unions t ln- count upon.
To Lenin with a the tlr-t tioke, they
i plan a walkout of p. i baps o nun m-u
next Mond.'iN. iiu-ii 'i fade-i . uisidereil
essential io n smooth oner if m ,,f f ,.
transportation sy-tenv., and Mibseouently
as blows are ui'ie--,iiy thev l-ope to ho
able to swtiig ml tin r ci e king column
the rest of tin line t'l'n r tun eiilisteil
men In unlcni labot's lei: ,,i,n
Tile Indolsetneut b till' llle.ilM). Coi.
tril Labor Union and bv th, ni'i.ntnii
(Yntril IVili'tatcil Ui.ion li
i il lie lit,
tint union
nn eiei!, m u pi..,' on
,llmr cfI,,,,ij- would stand bulc of
lheuu , ,,.,.,, m.(ll ,.r lAf.
meet. In 1. .-i.u.l.t.,. ...1 Tl ...
very rnmple.
,.OIlr j :t ,M ,. , i,i,,.rtl
i in Hie tl M p' ... ti. Am.ili; . mat, d
. .miens i. ., urn,,,, ll r,..u.-r.,t ',
"-it able olT-r t.. t, nip .t',.- . ,. c
a piogtcsslng. gal g .lemon.tr n n
I upon wlie h to build a gene. .1 si,.p.,tl y
urine, i ne sihk,. oi i lie site, t ,-.,r m. u
is re.-osnlzedlv in a bad w.iv and tho
llgun-s show that they a-e be., eg not,
gaining Huhwav and i .. v it.-.j lnv
scnrcelj been sent. -lied, and tin- Mitf i o
i car Hips are beginning, ihnugli fetbly.
to inase a snow ing
In the second p ace. tM miutliy
mow meat appeirs to be b-c il and witli-
I"m l'Mint.- iiii-ouiag.-meiit tinm the n-c-
I llotial le.'iileiH of I ibor Not one n.il'in, il
leadii of i onie.pieiice has iiiise.l n.m-
t v.,f ,;.,.,,., ,, ,.' ,',.'"
j pet'.., the blggisl ui ,i',, has l.ntali le.
Iftalnid fi un indoiMiig a -.Miip.it! y
'strike. M my pei-mw ein-. i .n Un. , i'.
bilit) of a siiip,iih --ui,,. I.i in, i,i
Without rqll.lie Ineil lll.leil ill t.l tiy
elouipi'i -, and cspe, nl'.;. in a i.t wln-.t
sympathy tnki i hivv urn r t.n.ii we I.
In the thud place -. v . i al Had. - r
lied on by the i-.iiiuen must hive tint
O. Is "f their nation.. I l...d.. b.-foin
, ,,i',, ,,,.!,.
' P1U11P.UU.
ilia lo, al s'i ugl. 'l l.. r. .1 it
s la be 1 "II - dined llgll I -
agicini-i
j . tn,,t . n n,,l I ..!,'. 1,, . 1
Also the .o'l'V.lv . i ill) t,.nle ,-. mi n
at the pi 'lit t ine ib.it the m.-ii in i -
Jo) lug high p.iv unl Ii.m not vol I i
dividual complaint It thev no nut Ken
I'lMll) It Will b. hl'MlI-i' nf the.r V c
tll.lt the wllo'e -Inn line of I il.cn iin.n.
islll Is ill li.ll pel'l 'I'll ll. of I'llll-i, H
the .ticuigest argunti lit pie-entt-el l
Fltzgei aid and b's aid' .
, s, . Illumes I'bl i d ' cniir Men,
III the fnlllMl I . the sinking i i .
men nf tin' Tllllll aVi'lllli r1c i il
placed ill a 1 i" position Ut n 1 i by
the juilgcent of the I'libll.- Sei v i. . I ' .
mission I It t line anil nn! then i .
ployel I l-'l ''ill I i.-k I. Mnlgi i .
dull) I violated the peaei .ish eini" ..J
August T
The stiilcmcii '" 1 nv 1 unniii
Oscar Straus of the I'libln Serine i'.iii
mission dennlli'l) absolved Mi Wilts
1
mi
1
i
4
3
fi
4"T !
w
V
111
I'
4s-
,Ti
I
: ii
r
