Jtate Historical Society
pp IP &
no in tp
1
i I
VOL. XXXVI. NO 41
HAYS, ELLIS COUNTY, KANSAS, SEPTEMBER 16, 1916.
SUBSCRIPTION $1.50 PER YEAR
11 11 HID
I.
Guard against the
future. Start vcur
Bank Account to-day.
A bank account is the safest shield for protection, and, once you
begin to save, you will be convinced it is the only road to comfort and
wealth. ' ,
A person should take no risks of disadvantage in the future whi'e
he is able to make himself secure. When one is so situated as to be able
to afford risks, then he may be venturesome.
Start a bank account with us now.
Interest paid on savings.
HAYS POTENTIALLY.
AH Fyes Are Turned This Way to Note
What This Tovrn Docs for Itsell at
Its Eictt Transition Period-
HAYS, KANSAS
mm.
mum ;M Z i affilll
A girl wants private housework. In
quire at this office.
For Rent.
a iour room nouse. vvno wants iti
Mrs. Frank Stout.
For Rent.
Sleeping room in thoroughly modern
house. Close in. Suitable for ladies
or married couple. Call Free Press
office.
Wanted: A position by a young lady
stenographer and bookkeeper. At
present employed. Call at Free Press
office. " ,
Lots for Sale.
I have about 100 of the Mrs. J. C.
Adkins tax lots in Hays for sale very
Methodist church. Harry Freese,
Guardian.
Watch the Hays City Drag Store
windows for specials next week.
Solid gold neck chains with diamond
pendants, $5.75 to $20.00,- at J. T. Mor
rison, the jeweler's.
Lost.
A gold brooch with letter M on it.
Finder please leave at this office.
Mrs. C. H. Morgan.
A Third Road for Kays.
"It never rains but it pours." Hal
W. Neiswanger, of Hollyrood, Kansas,
was here this week, in the' interest of
the Gulf, Plainville and Northern Rail
road, which the company propose to
build from Hollvrcod to JNcrton, Kan
sas, by way of Hays. Mayor Chitten
den called a meeting to be held -at the
Essex hall this Friday evening. The
Free Press will tell you the result of
the meeting, next week.
WEVE GOT THOSE
DRESS MWM
YOU WANT FOR
You will love to hear the humming of the
sewing machine a-working the new fall and
winter outfit you need if you come in and set
your dress goods and trimmings from us.
We shall help you select the shades to suit
your complexion and will see that the trim
mings match so there will be no discord in
your clothes color-scheme. Dressing well is
an nrt
We keep the BEST but sell it for LESS.
H. A. NIC&LES, Hays, Kansas
New Enthusiasm in Evidence.
(BY P. CASPAR HARVEY.) j
Hays will be. .
Hays is today the potential rivr.l of j
Wichita, Hutchinson and Salina. Sa-1
Una is the only one of the trio that real
izes it, however. That is because it is
the nearest. But more of this later.
The other day four men of Hays
walked up and down its streets in the
interest .of one of the enterprises that
means much to the town. Ihey carried
seme flaming red cards and a slip of pa
per. Afterward, another man who was
not along and felt slightly piqued be
cause he was not asked, told me that it
was not a case of soliciting, but a "ho!d
up." When told of the conversation,
the four men felt complimented and the
peeved individual had meant it as such.
You understand, he was peeved because
he wanted a hand in the hold up.
Six months ago practically every man
in town wouia nave ouereu ioil tA
cuses to have kept from being on that
committee. Today they all wanted on
it. The spirit of a new Hays is on Lhe
way, if not already here.
It is the day of big things. This town
i3 passing through a crisis right now
and unless the spirit of bigness wins
out, it's goodbye for thirty years. The
question is simply one of whether or
not Hays wants to lead this section of
Kansas or not. It is admittedly hard
on the people here now to bear the
burden, financial and otherwise, which
the securing of this leadership must en
tail. Many are advising less speed in
the rush for leadership. It costs mon
ey. .Yes, it does cost money, but do
they really want outsiders to come in
and reap the benefits which have been
built up here by the people who are now
asking that a loop-hole be left for out
siders to come? This new Hays for
which we have all waited so long i3 up
on us. It behooves all of us to not let
it slip between our fingers.
Personally, I feel like I do befora a
big football game. I want to get up
and make a pep speech. If I could get
up on the top of that big new elevator
at' the mill and make a speech about
Hays, '! might get it out of my system.
And if I had that opportunity and had-
a megaphone big enongh so that every
one in the vicinity could hear me, I
would 'make a speech much after this
fashion, although I would want Dory
Gosser and Alex -Philip along to put
in the emphasis:
"Men of Hays, come, lend me your
ears." Hays must be able to get to
gether without any lost motion. As it
is now.- the men who cannot restrain
their enthusiasm, get' together and do
the things that they and everybody else
feel must be done. That sort of an
organization always gets under steam
a bit too late to make it as big as it
should be. Everything takes prepar
ation and some slow preparation. Hays
needs and must have a Commercial
Club. I do not mean one of these lady
like affairs that are used as a football,
but a real one. It would be the balance
wheel of progress in Hays. It would
be tangible. It would have machinery
already oiled up. It should have a sec
retary, who received a salary for his
work. The man who would serve as
secretary for nothjng, would not do.
That Commercial Club should have
rooms worthy of the name. It should
have at least monthly get-together
"feeds" of some kind, where the busi
ness men and professional men cou'.d
"mill" it over,
be done come"
Mober, General Manager Ware, and
General Superintendent Davis that the
Union Pacific understands the situation
here and will meet it. The new union
station at Salina is just finished and be
fore lonar we may need a union one too.
' This week there were definite assur
ances sent to Hay3 that the new north
ern railroad to Hays would hit the town
before the southern one did. With no
thing to show above the surface, these
two roads are competing to see which
will reach Hays first.
"The automobile is doing a silent
work for Hays that no one seems to
realize. The Russians who first settled
around Hays are gradually moving
westward. They took to Hays as the
center. They come back here in big
super-sixes. The potentiality of this
one thing is immense.
"The little towns west of here for
several counties are full. In many
there is not a vacant room, much less a
house. The automobile connects them
with- Hays. Live business men are
numerous here and they are all right,
bat we need men who see this vision
and who will reach out. Hays does not
do it now. Twice a year fifty automo
biles filled with men should have a trade
tour out into the west with all sorts of
stunts and literature. Hays merchants
may deny it vehemently, but there are
some Hays ladies who shop rather reg
ularly in Ellis.'
"Without arguing the merits cf the
family secret at all and taking no sides
whatever. I wish to call- attention to
the "skyline" on the platform west of
the depot. It's a rather good thing
that most of our trains go through at
night and- that all worth while people
from a distance come here then and
leave then. Some day a committee is
going to come here and see that. That
depot platform should be covered up.
The "skyline" would be out of sight.
The committee that selected Winfield
as the best town in Kansas in which to
live, viewed that "skyline." A mem
ber of that committee told me that
that one thing not the fact of its be
ing here, but that it was not kept under
a roof eaused Hays to receive a lower
score. Let's build a roof before it hap-
ular pep speech. I "got it out of mi
system a week ago.
"Hays is not destined to be a little
town. The gods are for us and the on
ly things against us are ourselves.
Other towns in Kansas are looking to
ward Hays for many things. Many
to-ns in Western Kansas now feel that
Hays leadership is necessary. Many
more will feel that way. Hays is on
the map and if that map is to get any
larger, is up to all of us."
Hays will be.
pens again.
"The road3
far
. Loan and : Insurance Go.
FARM LOANS
. At Correct Rates
INSURANCE:
'In Best Companies
Bonded Abstractor for Ellis Go.
that lead into Hays and
many of Ellis county roads are the
wo.rst in this section of Kansas.
"The women and men of the town
need a sense of the appreciation of the
value of street improvements. Streets
are the suits of clothe3 with which we
cover civic nakedness. What should
be done about them, I do not pretend to
offer advice, but I know that it should
be something.
"On one of his trips to Hays recent
ly, Henry J. Allen, said that if he own
ed a newspaper in Hays, he would
make his first campaign to tear down
the disgraceful awnings built out in
front of stores. He said that he would
not let up until every one was down.
Now, Mr. Bird and Mr. Clark, it's up
to you. These wood and tin affairs are
relics of pioneer days that are now
kept only in museums.
"The Golden Belt Teachers Associa
tion is a gteat force .in Western Kan
sas and its meeting here means much
to hays, it will grow ana taKe in
more counties each year, As an evi
dence of its bigness, the association
will this month begin publication of an
educational magazine to be published
from Hays. The policy of the maga
zine will be controlled by the editorial
board of the association, but it will be
published from Hays.
"The football games brought here by
Coach "Banf." Speer are drawing cards..
that advertise Hay3 all over Western
Kar.ra:.
."Tms year the first state wide con-
Earl King was down from WaKeeney,
Wednesday.
Father Maurice was up from Victoria,
Wednesday.
Dewey Garrett got an arm slightly
injured at the mill this week.
J. T. Morrison, the jeweler, , has a
beautiful line of cameo brooches.
I Mrs. t red nattamier went to ivansae
, City, Sunday morning, on a visit to
'. friends.
i Attorney C. M. Holmquiat was at
Winona, Logan County, most of last
week, on legal business.
. Watch the Haj's City Drug Store
windows for specials next week.
Albert Kippes who was operated on
for appendicitis at St. Anthony's hos
pital some time ago is slowly recover
ing. - J
Jacob Leiker sports a brand new
Studebaker. Jake is one of Ellis
County's most successful farmers and
is deserving of the "best that is."
Richard Brooks, a worker on the
Sheridan Coliseum, fell off the building
about 40 feet Wednesday morning,
and broke an ankle. He is at the Hays
hospital.
Mr. and Mrs. N. P. Gassman, and
Frank Bissing, motored to Enterprise,
Sunday. They returned Monday morn
ing, bringing Mis3 Graeber with them
for a few days' visit.
Dr. Clover has added a McManis
treating table to his office equipment.
This mechanical table eliminates a
large amount of physical effort and
add3 efficiency to the treatment.
For "The Clean Milk" from healthy
tubercular tested cows, and Home
Creamery Butter, call,
s3t3 Woolridare Dairy, Phone 270.
C. M. Holmquist 13 visi"" ' s
at Lindsborg, this week. Wis saster
from Imperial, California, whom he
has not seen for several years, i3 also
visiting home folks at Lindsborg.
The following is credited to a Mis
souri editor: "The wind bloweth, the
water floweth, the farmer sowetb, the
subscriber oweth and the Lord kr.ow
eth that we are in need of our dues.
So come a ruunin' ere te go a gunnm'!
thing of dunmn gives
E. M. Sperr, President. H. W. Oshant, Vice Pre3.
Victor Holm, Cashier.
THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK
OF HAYS CITY, KANSAS
The Oldest Bank in Ellis County
Progressive, Conserv ative, Reliable, Accommodating
Member Federal Reserve Bank, Kansas City, Mo.
For "The Clean Milk" from healthy
tubercular tested cows, and Home
Creamery Butter, call, .
s9t3 Woolridge Dairy, Phone 270.
Geo. Hubbel attended the Topeka
fair, this week.
Ralph Ward has gone back to Michi
gan, to attend schoal.
Miss Nellie Reeder will attend school
at Wellesley Seminary, this year.
Canning and preserving tomatoes.
Order through your grocer. al2tf
One of the joung men not a society
! substantial sort of a chap, has just
finished a new house out in the Knox
addition. After business f hours he
spent a good deal of time not only
planning, but actually working on the
bungalow. All his friends and the
neighbors of course are looking about
for the girl. They argue that when a
bird buiids a nest he has selected a
mate. Anvhow the house has hwn
v - tv, r-T m-n c . i nmie. Anynow me nouse ttas Seen
ror The Clean Milk from healthy leased for six months, but the owner
and Home
test of co'.Ifgiate standing to come to
Bat, j'ou say it cannot . Hays will be presented,
on, Qo3ser and Philip, j "The musical festival in Hays in
and let 'em have a little.
the
! Spring will bring from 4030 to 5000
"For some months I have been reit. people
erating in the newspapers outside of
Hays, that this was the Convention city
of Western Kansas. Papers outside of
Hays realize it, too. Not only that,
here for two or three days.
Artists like Alice Neilsen, Louise Hom-
l er, and Pasquale Amato, and the Me
tf'politan Opera House Orchestra of
New York Citv, and the New York
but we shall be able to pull many state Philharmonic Orchestra will appear at
conventions alter the new building at those times.
the Normal school is hmshed. ihere - lhe bundaj' afternoon pipe organ
are several of the big statewide meet ; recitals in both the little auditorium
ings that swing round tlje circuit from ! and in Sheridan Coliseum, will attract
time to time and all would be glad to ; thousands when the roads are good and
come to Hays. I wish I might let the they will be twothirds of the time,
cat out of the bag in regard to several j These people who come her in automo
that will come in the near future. Hays j biles have money and they will appre
has more counties tributary to it than i ciate a good town and might soon move
Wichita, Hutchinson or Salina of here to live.
course, this will be, when the two rail- j "That brffcgs me to the probable size
roads are built. Hays is indeed aom of the town Henry J. Allen places it
petitor of these three potentially, . at 10,000 in five years. We had better
"We shall have the finest building get in on the ground floor. Listen to
possible to seat any Kansas convention, i this: thirty-nine bare lots eight blocks
The question is raised at once, Where j from the business section sold the other
would the people stay? Most of them j day for a total of $7200. Is that a
in your homes, of course. But, listen, j straw showing the way the wind ia
did yoa know that one of the hotel peo- j bowing?
Die in Hays conhdea in me that they I commission iorm oi government is.
had in contemplation the modernizing j the writing on the wall and the machin
of their hotel and possibly adding an j ery of city government will be changed
addition. All of you have heard rumors ' in such a way as to promote the wel
about a new hotel, anyway. Well, but j fareof the town.
I promised not to tell, yet awhile. "I have purposelynot mentioned the
"Many of you are impatient about a
new railroad station. Corporations
have a way of doing thing3 in that best
way,' which you and I call slow. Did
Kansas City get that new one of hers,
the first time a committee passed reso
lutions? " But Kansas City is now glad
she waited The Station at Hays will
bej the-bigger for having waited.' I
have positive word from President
us the
This
blues!"
D. H. Early's sons have secured the
agency for the "Liberty Bell" electric
washing machine. It beats all of
them. The price $45 is in reach of
most of the families. It is a great
strength saver and also a time saver.
Dr. Middlekauff will soon commence
the erection of a two story brick build
ing on the present site of his office.
The dimensions 25x75. The lower floor
will be used by King Brothers for their
drug store. The rooms upstairs for
offices.
While cutting bananas from a big
new bunch of the tropical fruit, Richard
Drees a of the J. B. Basgall grocery,
discovered a very large tarantu'a as
large as a cup. Rich captured the fine
specimen and turned it over to the
Biology teacher of the Hays Catholic
College.
James R. Start left Monday night,
for Chicago, where he will spend a few
days before going out to Evanston, to
eater Northwestern University. He
will take work in the school of oratory
and dramatic art in connection with his
academic preparation for the study of
medicine.
Mrs. A. Clarke and son3, Vernon
and wife, and Clarence, returned Thurs
daj' afternoon, from a short visit with
relatives end friends, at Marysville,
Kansas. They also visited the State
Fair at Topeka. The trip was made
in the Free Press "tinlii." -They
went over the Rock Island highway to
Marysville and returned over the Gold
en Belt.
If there is not another city in Kansas,
that needs the main streets macad
amized more than Hays does, it has
not been discovered. Tuesday morn
ing after the rain, the road on North
Chestnut was a slush of mud, and one
of the old-time citizens called the
writers attention to the fact. He said,
"I have been a resident of Hays for
twenty-five years and that is the condi
tion of the streets after every rain
storm. It's a shame and a disgrace."
About six o'clock yesterday morning,
Mrs. Smith, mother of Merchant
P. P. Smith, while - on her way to
cburch, when near the southeast corner
of Chestnut and Second Streets, re
ceived a bad fall by slipping on a banana
tubercular tested cows,
Creamery Butter, call,
s9t3 Woolridge Dairy, Phone 270.
John F. Werth has marketed several
loads o. watermthielcns s week.
A man from WaKeeney, expect3 to
open the Busy Bee restaurant about
the first of October.
Frosty Blackburn has taken charge
of the Hogback. Elevator and has
moved his family to Yocemento.
Azel Cochran is moving the houses
over from Yocemento, he recently pur
chased of the cement plant people.
Watch the Hays City Drug Store
windows for specials next week.
Mr. and Mrs. Francis Blender and
Mr. and Mrs. Henry Reemsnyder, mo
tored to WaKeeney, Wednesday, to at
tend the fair.
The Fort Hays Normal have just re
ceive I a twenty-five or thirty passen
ger International automobile for the
i use of the school.
j Mr. Frank Daughetty is again "mak
J ing" Hays, this time with the Loose
v lies Cracker and Candy Co. Frank
has been coming to Hays for some time
and has a number of friends here.
For Sale. A U. S. cream separator,
good as 7iew, at less than half price.
al2tf ' E. B. Matthew.
J. F. Jordan and wife have returned
from an extended visit to friends in
j Wisconsin, Illinois and Iowa. J. F.
reports dry weather and poor crops
I especially corn in those states as well
a3 in Kansas.
Ed Blender, this week, sold out his
milk route to Roy Thomas. Roy buys
the milk at Ed Blender's "house and
then he delivers it after October l3t.
Ed says he and his boys are going to
spend their evenings at home this winter.
Canning and preserving tomatoes j
Order through your grover. al2tf
The little son of -Alois Krlin of
Catherine, .who had his foot cut off I
some months ago while trying to man-
refuses to extend the lease another
minute after that time m expired.
oiaie journal. JSeptemoer fctn.
The young man referred to ia the
above item is J. M. Wiesner, a graduate
of the Fort Hays Normal, now practic
ing law in Topeka.
MADS MADSEN DEAD.
Resident cl Elli County Dies In Salina. '
Mads Madsen of Fairport, Kansas,
died this morning at St. John's hospi
tal. The body is being held at Smith
& Son until the brothers arrive. The
funeral will be held in Russell, Kansas,
Tftursday afternoon. Services will be
in charge of Rev. J. J. Johnson.
Mr. Madsen had lived in Ellis countv
for twenty years. He was a member
of the Masonic and Woodmen lodges.
Hi3 seven years old daughter, Anna
survives him. Salina JournaL
Mr. Madsen is a brother of Mrs. Geo.
Brown of this city. Mr. Madsen had"
many friends and relatives in Hays and
Ellis county, and quite a number at
tended the funeral Wednesday: George
Brown si-y :e. Abe Goetchius and
wife, Cuusk reiersua and wife, Mrs.
C. C. Jensen, Mrs. Henry Meyers,
Dorothy, Elsie and Fred Madsen, Jff
Saunders, Andrew and Hans Jensen.
Rooms for Rent.
Office room 3 and rooms for light
house keeping. See Muiroy Bros.
pel. Her head struck the concrete
Normal school, the Experiment -Station, walk heavily, dazing her badly. Dr.
the hospital, St. Joseph's College, the
mill, "the three banks, and the individ
ual men whose very energy bespeaks
the Hays to be.
"The. Golden-Belt Fair and its per
manency and stability, and the leader
ship of Western Kansas potentially in
that organization, I wrote about last
week, and has no place fn this partic-
Siyder who was returning from a sick
cal!, was near and saw the accident.
He hurried to the old Jadys assistance
and helped her to her feet. After some
delay she was able to continue her
journey, but wa3 still suffering much
pain, a very severe penalty snoula ca j
imposed on any one who will deliberate
ly drop a banana pecl.on the sidewalk.
Hays High School.
Enrollment in the high school has
reached 103. Others are expected la
ter. The Freshmen clas3 rmmbers 37.
Several classes have beea Jiri5ed and
there are several classes yet too large
to do good work.
From 35 to 43 boys get out every
evening for football practice. A num
ber f good games have been scheduled.
A big game will be pulled off at Haysv
on Thanksgiving Da3.
Notice has been received from the
State Board of Education that the
Hays high school continues oa the ac
credited list, for next. year in class 1. "
Regular chorus work under Miss Si
denius. began this week.
age a fractious team that was hitched Republican Central Committee Hette
loa a,sK ?frr able to get around j The Republican Central Committee
quite nimbly on his crutches. The lit- j met Saturday, the iUh of SentemW .
t.e lad is quite brave and bears his mis- 1 per CH'i Svrptem'.ijr 2nd. 1916 Thi
lortune more courageously than many
grown psople would. He is to have an
artifical limb very soon and looks for
ward to walking with great hope.
Mr. Fred Krueger had the misfor
tune of having his leg broken above the
ankle, Wednesday, While building a
barn at the Krueger homestead, ha
m;3sed his step and fell with the above
result. Mr. Conrad Krueger brought
him to St. Anthony's hospital in his
car. Drs. Blake and Middlekauff tock
an X-ray picture and reducedthe frac
ture. Mr. Krueger is at his brother's
home in this city and is getting along
as well as can be expected.
was the largest central conmittee
meeting that the writer has attended
for a number of years. There were
also a good p?rcent of the Republican
candi 'ates present and all seemed to be
very enthusiastic.
The meeting wis very harmonious
an! all senmsJ to be in the very best
of spiriu regirdless of the -wind and
dust through which all had come to
the meeting.
Meating adjourned to meet again
Saturday, the 30th of September, 1916, ,
at 2:30 o'clock. All committeemen
and candidates to be present at that
time. Secretary.
W
re are prepared to take care ol
your orders for Meats, Groc
eries, Fresh Fruits and Vegetables
Phone 169
f!
Ho Mo
TTV "H T5 in '
: DIAMONDS
Watches, Clocks, Jewelry, Cut Glass,. Silverware,
Hand Painted China and Phonographs
Our line is complete in every part. We will be glad to show vou'
through our entire line. No trouble to show goods.
YOU ARE ALWAYS WELCOME AT
J. T. M0RPJS0N. The Jsusler
Phohe No. 152
Citizens Eank Building
Hays, Kars
