THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
nVKNTY-SKVENTU YEAB
8 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, SATURDAY MORXlNd, SEPTEMBER 16, 191G
8 P.AGES
VOL. XXVII, NO. 120
BRIIISlSM GERMAN
j
OK
FROM
i
ANGLO
JULY BEGAN
(By Republican A. P. Leased Wire)
Smashing the German line on a front of six mile north of the Somme in
France, the British forces have madi probably the most notable advance
since the Anglo-French offensive began July 1.
Three tow.ns, two woods, and the possession of nearly all the high ground
between Combles and the Pozieres-Bapaume road fell to the British. Not
only did the Germans lose these points but the British drive imperils the
Combles and Thiepval positions, at either end of the British front. The gain
ing of the high ground north of Comblea gives the British command; of the
approaches to Bapaume.
The advance on the northern end of the front was for a distance of two
miles. Courcelette, east of Thiepval and north of the Pozieres-Bapaume road
and Martinpuich, south of the road, fell into the hayids of General Haig's
men. Farther south they took Flers and the High wood, making secure their
possession of Ginchy. .
The Germans under Crown Pnnc Rupprecnt of Bavaria fought stub
bornly to hold their ground, London says, and the fiohting was severe all
along the line. More than 2,iC0 prisoners were taken by the British.
Aiding the British in the encirclement of Combles, the French have taken
additional trenches north of Le Prieifarm.
South of the river three German trenches near Berny-enSanterre were
taken by the French, who also captured ZOO prisoners. Berlin claims the re
pulse of British attacks southeast of Thievpal and of French efforts between
Hancourt and the Somme. The official statement admits the loss of Le Pnez
farm, west of Bancourt. , .
In northern Macedonia, the British, French and Serbian armies havo
gained additional successes, breaking down the Bulgarian defense in the cen
ter and on the left wing. French troops, took Bulgarian positions a half mile
deep on a front of one mile. West of Lake Ostrovo the Serbians captured
Malkanidze. The British attacked west of the Vardar and also gained
ground.
Unofficially it is reported the Bulgarians retreated twelve miles jn front
of the entente rush and Athens reports the abandonment of Kastoria by the
Bulgarians. Berlin save entente attacks in the Mogleniea sector and east of
the Vardar were repulsed. .
The Italians have bequn a new drive toward Triest. Lines of Austrian
entrenchments east of the Vallone have been taken, Rome reports, together
with more than 2,100 prisoners. Vienna, while admitting Italian successes on
ik. i. (nnt 4.l3r ih first assault is looked UDon as a failure.
In th Dohrudia rea ion of Rumania.
and Rumanian troops are retiring northward before the advance of the forces
of the central powers. Violent fighting is in progress in this region. In
Traniv vania. however, the Humaman
and have reached the Aluta river northwest of Kronstadt.
There has been no change in the situation of the eastern front from the
Carpathians to Riga.
French Take Trenches
PARIS. Se;.t. 15. North of
the
Homme the French forces today took
n system of trenches 60it meters deep
from the- Germans norm oi me uep-
riez fnim, thus.
with the ail of the
he town orromid;; closer, says the
War .ffioe communication issued to-.
nirht. - - "
It is added that near Rernv-en-Sa-i
,
I
trre. routh of the Somme. three Ger-
rf them officers, were captured. Sue- , J1,m" , .
eeasfu aviation operatt. ns also we,-,, "Our inventors have not hesitated to
carried out on the Somme front. tread boldly upon tihbeaten- pa hs. We
man urn r uu - i ...
British M?.ke Sucresses
imni.V Se..t ISThe greater
t-art of the Pouleux wood, HiBh wood.
and the to'Wn of Hers. Martinpiii'-ri
and Courcelette have been taken , oy
the British who also have captured
all the hieh ground between "Tumbles
nnd the l!o7ieres-P:i'-"'mo mid. ie
fordiiiK to today's official communi
cation More than 2.10 prisoners were cap
tured. The Vv Nian steamer Ma'cel. 1,431
tons, his been srnk. accordirT to an i
announcement toni'.ht v t.iovri's
A disoatch to the Kxchange Tele
eranh from Amsterdam says:
"Cerman newspapers announce that
Kmiiress Augusta Victoria has been
summoned to the eastern front head
ouartors by Kmneror Will'atn. and
riwl thron"h p-esl" i yestcdav on
th journev from Berlin. It would be
he' first visit to the eatern fsont.
The Swedish eovernmert's renlv t
th representations of the entente
ministers concerning meaure to pre
serve the neiit-iit" of Swedish ter
ritory -van published today in Stock
holm, rav a Renter d'-umtch from that
place. The reply disputes in a most
format measure the soireestion that
there Ip nny difference with the treat
ment accorded either to one or th?
otl.er of the beUiHerent camps.
The reference In th official enm
niunlif.tlon Issued by the war offi.-e
yesterda to a new tvoe of armored
rnr. is the flrt official mention of n
develooment that ha bfn much
vhioppr'-' shout rwentlv in armv
circles. Thowe who iipve ein t'r.e nu-
THREE EXPLOSIONS: THREE
H MANY
Republican A. P. Lea-jed wire
WILMINC.TON, Del., Sept. 15 Nine-
teen
powder workers were burned at
, . . ..
six of them seriously, by the ex-
least
plosion of several thousand pounds of
smokelesa powder at the plant of the
lu Pont Powder company at Carney's
Point, N. J., tonight.
The flames originated in a blending lie detonation was felt for a radius Charles Dickens grandson of Charles
' tower, and while the company has not of fifteen miles and many persons were Dickens was killed in action In France
established the cause, the opinion la j lnjured ,y fajng nhris, . Monday." .
advanced that a piece of metal may I 1
have found Its way Into the powder
which was being worked through the
tower.
Following the first big flare which
lighted up the country for miles around
there were several smaller ones as
fresh bins of powder In the tower be
came ignited. The workmen were
burned while fleeing from the building.
The tower was destroyed in a few
minutes.
Liqhtning Causes Explosion
POMPTON LAKES, N. J., Sept. 15.
Three workmen were killed and eight
were injured here today when light
ning caused an explosion In the ful
minate building at the Du Pont tie
Nemours Powder company's plant. The
explosion started a fire.
Three Ar. Killed
PITTSBURG. Sept. 15. Three per
sons are known to have been killed and
nearly a score Injured by an explosion
at the plant of the Aetna Clictulcal
IF
DK THE S
Bucharest admits that the Russian I
forces are continuing ineir progress
'vehicles, refer to them as "tanks"
while the soldiers who have teen
handling them, have givm them the
nicname of "willies."
The object that the designers
lt' '";'" "
" ""ted in the heU-torn an 1
roadless wilderness of trenches here
, tt is evident a vehicle mounted on
iHimiry wheels could. not be used,
Although no details of the car's
construction have been published, tho
1 infantry in shell battered trenches
"'"".i. ni mr inim HUH uano
'ney saw am anr,.,K ui-on mem an r
ray bf unearthy monsters cased In steel,
spitting fire and crawling laboriously
but ceaselessly over trenches, barbed
wire and shell craters."
Russians Are Retiring
BCCHAKKST. Sept. IS. (Via Am
sterdam to London, Sept. 18. Kussian
and Rumanian troops m the Dobrudja
region of Rumania are in retirement
northward, according to the official
communication Issued today.
To Save' Monuments
ROME (via Paris). Sept. 15 Italian
hydro-aeroplane attack on Parenzo
and other Austrian aeroplane bases
were for the purpose of saving the
monuments of Venice from destruction
bv nightly aeroplane bombardments, It
is learned. Italian newspapers admit
ijthat the anti-aircraft guns in Venice
are powerless against invading attacks
and that in a dozen recent Austrian
raids a different historical object was
struck each time.
Deport 25 000 Men
AMSTERDAM. Sept. 15. (Via In
don.) The Frankfurter Zeitung esti
mates the strength of the Kourth Creek
army corps, which Is to be transported
to Germany, at 25.000 men. The news
paper reloices that the entente allies
are deprived of the use of the troops
which they might gain If Greece came
Into the war on their side.
frvmtlniied nn Pare Two)
company near Oakdale. this countv. to-
' night. A physician who entered the
IZ 'TZ T " m"v P
serted that he knew thai at least fivt
J persons were dead. A body was identi-
enclosure surrounding the ulant
i f ied as that of B. R. Dodds. night sun-
, erintendent of the plant. Samuel Paul,
an employe, died from injuries in a
Pittsburg hospital.
FF
1
NJU
By Strategy Germans Tale
Entire Greek Army Corps
Republican A. P. Leased Wirs :
LONDON, Sept. 16. The morning
newspapers are indignant over the
German coup at Kavala, whereby the
Fourth Greek army corps surrendered.
The Telegraph says.
"This Is an exhibition of a character
quite unique even In Germany's record,
and certainly Is unprecedented In his
tory. An entire Greek army corps has
been literally kidnaped by the Germans
and Bulgarians and packed off with Its
arms and equipment to Germany. The
plot was organized in Berlin and car
ried out by the liulgarlans.
"The story of this international crime
adorned with mendacious excuses put
Race Against Death
SUGGEST CONSTABULARY FOR BORDER DUTY
Q q
i CHICAGO "BEAUTY SQUAD I
STARTS AFTER MASHERS !
i CHICAGO. Sept. 15. A "beauty j
squad" of police ttiimcn set out 1
i tonight ti curb "mashers" In Chi- !
; eago's doivntow n district. Foar of
j t!ic must comely women in the j
' police department were ordered to i
I "lie shy." patrol the downtown
I section, flirt back it flirted with
, I and then arrest." !
I I
CERTAIN GOODS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LGNlXiN, Sept. 15. I.ord Hubert
Cecil, minister of war trade, today ex
plained the recent orders of the lirit-
Ish government refusing to allow Hol-
land to expect further consignments of
American goods and refusing letters of
aanuraiire
that American shipments
would reach Kcundinavia. H sid the
orders applied only to certain prohib
ited articles and not tu trade in
Kfneral.
Great Britain has forbidden the ex
port of various articles to Kurojiean
neutrals on the Kround that they have
already received in the first seven
months of this year more than an or
dinary year's supply. Lord Robert
said it was not logical to forbid Fuch
exports from f!reat liritain and to per
mit them from America and other
neutral sources.
Lord Robert explained that one neut
ral nation, taking normally lS.WiO tons
of coffee, in seven months of this year
already has imported .0u0 tons, so
all further imports of coffee to that
country are looked upon as likely to
reach an enemy destination. The list
of prohibited articles, he said, varies
with different countries according to
what they already had imported, all al
lowances being made for Imports for
merly destined to Oerman ports.
Scope an Uncertainty
WASHINGTON, Sept. 15. In the ab
sence of Information dealing with com
modities "Which are affected by the new
British restrictions on American trade
with Holland and the Scandinavian
countries, officials here are uncertain
Just how heavily American exporters
will suffer. Steps to obtain this in
formation already had been taken to
night and it was indicated that should
any sweeping extension of restrictive
measures be revealed it would be re
garded as a serious development in the
controversy over the legality of allied
blockade methods.
No report on the new order has
come through official channels, but to
day's news dispatches regarding it
were called Immediately to the depart
ment officials.
Officials expressed much concern
over the first report that the new or
der would completely cut off trade
with Holland and seriously cripple that
with the Scandinavian countries. In
some quarters it was suggested that
the present was a particularly inoppor
tune time for promulgating such a de
cree, with Secretary Lansing studying
Intricacies of the new legislation under
which the executive branch of the gov
ernment Is empowered to take drastic
retaliatory legislation against nations
interefring with' American trade.
Later advices saying that only cer
tain unnamed commodites would lie af
fected, led officials to hope that no
far-reaching restriction had been at
tempted. i1
While American exports to Holland
already have been greatly curtailed by
a series of British orders, a consider
able trade, especially in foodstuffs, is
still done with that country.
In addition to the new order, state
', department officials are investigating
an arrangement effected by Great
Britain and France for establishment of
bureaus to effect an exchange of mer
chandise on the list of prohibited
countries.
DICKENS' GRANDSON KILLED
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON Sept. IG. Major Cedric
forward to account for It, comes from
the Wolff bureau and Is a mixture of
truth and falsehood.
"The Wolff bureau states that com
munication iictwccn tho Greek army
corpB and Athens was interrupted by
the entente the truth is that it was
cut by the Bulgarians. The Wolff
bureau .states that the Greek com
mander, wishing to maintain neutrality
appealed to the German commander for
protection from the entente. The
truth Is the Fourth army corps sur
rendered only under the menace of the
Bulgarians and Germans a;id only after
It was surrounded and at -the mercy
of the enemy."
RESTRIGTIDN IF
. TIE ONLI IH
TO TOE
RURftLES OF THE
0
Republican A. P. Leased Wirel
Ni;' LONDON, Comi.. Sept. 15.-
siiKKestiou that the Mixican govern-
merit create a constabulary for border
duty similar to the rurales of the 1 iaz
regime was made today during a brief
session of the American-Mexican Joint
commission concluding the second
1
week of its deliberations. Apparently "pciation of New York's traction lin.-i-the
plan for a joint police force pre- vas t' l'ted lab? tonight. A referen
viously discussed was abandoned as'"um haH h''n ' Progress amon
impracticable after the commissioners i man'. of the crafts for several days
hud conferred with Major General Tas
ker H. Bliss, of the I nitcd States
army.
The three Mexican commissioners
left for New York tonight to Join in
the celebration there tomorrow of the
Mexican national holiday arranged by
consular officials. r. John K. Motl.
of the American commi;oii, is absent
on personal business, but his assistants,
Secretary I-me and Judge Gr;iy, are
devoting their time to a study of tele
graphic reports from the border ur.d
the interior of Mexico, transmitted by
the state anil war detriments.
General Bliss, it was learned, made
the Joint commission a dispassionate
statement of the situation he believed
would follow General i'ershing's with
drawal from Mexico before a properly
constituted constabulary is created to
relieve his troops. It is understood he
pointed out problems in the nay of an
effort to create a border police under
dual authority.
There ifrr-asoi, to believe tiP Amer
ican commissioners have sought to im
press thi-ir Mexican conferees with the
view that Mexico mu.-t recognize re
sponsibility lor the depredations her
nationals may commit on the border if
good relations are to be unimpaired.
The whole question of creating a non
military force to hunt down bandits in
their hill retreats is based on this feel
ing, and it is believed the suggestion
that the Carranxa government under
take this task for itself as an inter
national obligation came from the
Mexican commissioners.
The theory is that a force of care
fully selected mounted police could be
disposed in small posses in the hill
country. The chase would become an
Individual pursuit rather than a mili
tary movement which becomes inef
fective if the bandits scatter and mingle
with peaceful residents. The police
would check up the comings and goings
of every man in a suspected com
munity. Moving swiftly and unham
pered by women camp followers, it is
believed, a Mexican military force could
do much toward putting a stop to
banditry. The American commission
ers are not disposed to stand upon any
technical laws but to deal with the
situation as one of fact, taking into
consideration social and economic con
ditions. Other questions it has been planned
to discuss next week are plana for the
consideration of claims of American
citizens against Mexico; allegations of
American property owners In Mexico
that their property is being confiscated
y excessive taxation or bv decrees
providing for forfeiture: the right
ciaimeo i.y tne government to take
over lands owned by foreigners on the
ground that the property has not been
used during the period when it was
impossible to get to them to operate
inem. ano me consideration of de
crees unner which American citizens
have been driven out of Mexico or not
permitted to practlca their professions
r carry on tneir business, contrarv to-
treaty regulations.
MESSAGE AHEAD OF TIME
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SPOKANE, Wash.. Scut. 15 The
war department's message which is
being relayed from Plymouth. Mass.. to
Seattle by automobile, was brought to
Spokane at 5: IS p. m. todav. one hour
and forty-two minutes ahead of sched
ule. It was immediately- given to a
driver who will deliver it to Colfax.
At Colfax the message Is to be taken
to Walla Walla. The message is to be
nt Fort Law ton at 9 o'clock tomorrow-
morning.
o ;
Fisher Tells Of
Steps to Improve
Our Marketing
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
UJ-.MXKB, . Sept. 15. Walter Jj.
Fisher, former secretary of the In
terior and counsel for the American
Livestock. Association, outlined nt
conference of the marketing commit.
tee of the association and prominent
stockmen from the southwest here
today steps taken to improve market
ing conditions. He submitted a re
port or the recent hearing In Wash
ington protests against the packing
oi' mini j
Most or the day was devoted to
reports on producing and marketing
conditions in various parts of the
eoumrv. A tormal outline of the
associations activities was being pre
pared tonight.
Most Stirring Of Coast History
EIGHTY THOUSAND
MAY GO ON STRIKE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, Kept. 15. KiKhty
Zllioii' wi'l workers in crafts closely
ufliliated with the operation on Ne.v
Yolk's traction lines are expected to
I mo on strike by Monday, it was an-
j noiim ed at the close of a meeting of
: tne Central hederated Lnlon here to
j r.ight. Repiesentalives .of 4b0.0nli un-
; ionized employers were at the meeting
; it was said, and passed a resolution
icalllnc on e:ich trario to riscert-.in tli
sentiment of members regarding a
' generul strike In sympathy v itii the
i, a'" mt"n' .
sympathetic 8trike of TO.UOO workers
in trades closelv affiliated with the
t nii ir tne sympathetic strike is au
thorized, union leaders predict it wl'.l
bo the most effective blow that could
be dealt in the carmen's strike thai
has been in pi ogress since September
1 ;i the elevated, subway and surface
lips of the city.
Tne trades in which the referendum
IK WITH TIE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NKW YORK. Sopt. 15. On Sen
tem kt 1. the staff correspondent of
The Associated Press obtained the
Interview with King f'onstantine. of!
Greece, that follows. It Is impossible
IS 1 NOTABLE
!G GREECE
to say which of the censor-h i ps : bv ier.cn-J Cava:os. according to
through which it passed held tin the'rennrt
llunnt.-l, , I. .. ,;n. ri-1 .
. -,wu.. ,, mix. i oe Illicit lew
.7 " aooi'i me time tne entente
allied f!"et was taking position at
Piraeus, the port of Athens, ar.d rev-
outi narv outbreaks were reported
taking place in Macedonia.
,r
TATOF, Greece, Sept 1, (via Paris,
pt. 15, 12::!0 p. m.) King Con-
slant ine received the correspondent
oi me ac-sociiucu pre?s in his sum-
mer palace here and spoke of the
present situation with the utmost Chihuahua City is tonight iie
frankness. although refusing to be bratintr the "G I'ito" or fieM e-Ti thft
directly piloted. He said that Greece
is ready5 to join the entente allies
wheneer she chouid see her defin-
ite and rertain advantage in so doing.
The km expressed indignation
thai it could le thought by any one,
much less he published, that he i
bound hy anv pledge to any one not
to make war or that he has been
moved in his course hitherto hy any
reasons save those he conceived to
be for the greatest good of his coun
try, tie referred with particular
ieeling u the fate almost certain to
overtake moer than a million Greeks
living in Asia Minor and Thrace in
the event of Greece finding herself
engaged in hostilities with Turkey,
and he pointed out that while those
who Judged Greece and himself
harshly for what is regarded as In
actiou, they gave no thought to the
prospect oi condemning to the lot
of the Armenians. Greek women and
children caupht in the toils of the
Turks.
(Continued on Page Six)
or THE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire i
LONG BRANCH. N.-J.: Sent. 15.
President Wilson's campaign plans
...
we,e tunner oisturoea uiaay oy tne
receipt tit word from New London,
Conn., that' his sister, Mrs. Annie K.
Howe, who is critically ill there spent
a restless night last night. It ap
H
peared probable that
would cancel an engagemen
St, Louis September 20 to speak be
fore an underwriters' convention.
Such disturbing news from Mrs.
Uuwe's bedside was received this
morning that the president and Mrs.
Wilson made plans for going to New
London immediately. Later in tho
afternoon however word was received
that she was slightly better and Mr.
Wilson poptponcd the trip. He is
holding himself in readiness to go to
New London at any time.
The president saw no cullers today'
but divided his time between playing
golf and working on correspondence.
Confidence of a democratic victory
in November was expressed in a tele
gram from Senator Hitchcock received
tooay. ine senacoi sain a nunn, in
r.olitical conditions In his' state had
convinced him tnai Mr. nsnn
string there.
NEW TONDON Conn. Sent. 15.
The condition of Mrs. Annie E. Howe,
"resident Wilson's sister, who is dy
ing Hero, g-ew "teadlly worse todav.
Dr. II. M. Lee, her physician, was in
PRES DENT
has 1 een in progress, it is said, in
clude longshoremen te.fcisters power
house employes stationary engineers
and firemen and machinists. The" only
craft upon which figures were avail
able tonight was the machinists and it
was said their vote showed about 70
per cent of th? membership favoring
a sympathetic strike.
Union leaders attach much import
ance to the action of the machinists,
most of whom are employed at plants
manufacturing munitions of war for
the entente allies. The effect of the
strike in that trade they say, would
be a direct blow at the Morgan inter
ests, the largest holders of stock in
the IntciboroJgh Rapid Transit com
pany. .1 i Morgan and company arc
th fiscal agents of the British gov
ernment in this city.
Several persons were injured, none
of them seriously, in two traction ac
cidents tonight.
Although surface car service lm-
nrived over previous days, subway
nnd elevated trains w'ere more crowd
ed todav than at any time Fince the
striKe was called. Several women
fnnted and manv persons suffered
minor bruises.
VILLA ID HIS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHIHUAHUA CITY. Mex.. Sept. 15.
The cordon of constitutionalist
for.- tlir.-u-r- firming Villa an kl.
rand has at List como ir,t r,.ucV
; w ith rebel atom ih ut;,. hu
I J
I ievino. m
While Cavazos has engaged the
I Viilista on ti. ran.hn
east of Namiouina in the direction o;
Bnst;ilov ihe
! Vargas "and of Colonel Ztiazua 're
'moving to co-operate . and are ex-
pec-ted on Oe scene" at any- time,
From information received here ail
avern.es of escape for the bandits
nave been cut off hi-
government
troops.
eve of the Mexican inrieneiHenee
inv. In the parade here tomorrow
ten 80 millimeter and fourteen of the
famous French
ij's will be a leading
feature.
DOUGLAS. Sept. 13. Sergeant
James Rogers, company H. and Pri
vate Frank K Mackey. company1 E,
Second Montana infantry, who dis
appeared Tuesday, and were reported
to have been murdered or to be
prisoners ir. Mexico, have not return
ed ;o thtir regimental camp, but
nothhie- has been discovered which
would substantiate the story of their
death I
Mexican officials in Agua Prieta and
Naeo sj.y thtv have invesigated the
report and have learned nothing
about the men. They express doubt
whether the men over entered the
country.
FrienCs of the two, who wee
quite Kpnlar in the regiment, con
tinue to insist that thev are not de-
(Continued on Page Two;
BAND MEET UP
WITH GAVAZOS
'S PLANS DISTURBED
ILLNESS OF HIS SISTEII
constant attendance, at the bedside
tonight, and did not issue his 'Usual
i en,ns ouuenn concerning her conat
tion
Xhe mornin h,,netin stated that
Mrs. Howe had grown weaker in the
last twelve hours,
Federal Amendment Will
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
PORTLAND. .Ore., Sept. 15. Need
of u federal amendment to stamp out
the liquor traffic was urged by tho
prohibition national candidates todav
and tonight in cities of Washington
and. Oregon, both dry states.
"Vim cannot get this issue solved
by tdateB," J. Frank Haniy, the presi
dential .candidates, declared. ."You
can only do it by national legislation.
for the iinltor rienler have defeated
j every otner kind or legislation. 10U
, oan Volve it 'by voting the prohibition
ticket nationally, and either electing
lto Indiith nnd myself and a favor
alne congress, or giving us such a
vote that the democratic and repub
lican parties never will dare draft
another national platform without a
prohibitory plank In it."
Dr. l..-Midril!i, the vice presidential
CONGRESS GOES
INS I
Republican A. P, Leased Wire
MARSHFIKLD, Ore., Sept.' 15. The
race against death of the liner Con
gress when that steamship caught
on fire late Thursday was one of the
most stirring events in the history
of the Pacific coast shipping, ac
cording to officers of the vessel here
tonight.
As soon as the seriousness of the
fire became known the ship's bow
was turned towr.rd Coos Bay at full
steam ahead. Despite the efforts of
the crew the fire gained headway
and the smoke belched forth from
every aperature in increasing volume.
On the bridge Captain Cousins,
veteran navigator, stood calmly is
suing orders and calling down reas
surances to the terrified passengers.
.Mrs. Margaret Reig, of New
Orleans, suddenly feeling the Boles
of her feet warmed by the blistering
deck, became hysterical with terror.
"Madam, there is no danger," Cap
tain Cousins called to her. "Ail of
you will lie landed safely."
Just as he spoke a sweating man
appeared from below.
' Chief Engineer Mainland has dis
appeared." he reiorted. "and one of
his assistants ha lieen overcome.
"Find Martlan-1 and keep full steam
ahoad." replied Cousins. erimly.
Martiand was found and brought un
conscious to the bridge. He half
way recovered after a time and start
ed to return to the engine room.
M-iy here. Martiand, ordered Cap
tain Cousins. "We can't go any
further, but I think we have won out
for there conies a ship."
At that moment the dredge Michie,
which had turned toward the Con
gress, blew four blasts. Captain
Cousins ordered three blasts in replv.
The last of these almost failed to
sound, for the steam was dyine in
the bo:lers. Ky that time tho Con
gress had dropped anchor and th?
life boats lowered on the star-
loard side. The smoke was so thick
that they could net be lowered on
the port side.
Women and children were the first
to enter the boats.
Ore man was found hiding be
neath the seat of a life boat as it was
!ing lowered. A seaman yanked
him out roughly.
By the time the first boat load got
away the Congress was a smokin;
volcano.
Not until half of these aboard had
been transferred to the Michie did
any flames appear above the decks.
Then from a score of ventilators and
porttioles toward the stern, tongues
of fire leaped forth. Ten per cent
of the crew were Btill on the Con
eTC??s when there came a puff from
the heart of the ship and in an in
stant flames were curlirrg about her
from stem to stern.
TV.e last boat to leave contained
Captain Cousins. They pushed away
choking in the smoke and blistered
by the hen. When their boat came
out of the smoke that hid the Con
gress, the passengers lined along the
rail of the dredge, Eent tip cheer after
cheer for the commander and his
crew.
o
SADDLER IS HEALTH OFFICER
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
ELGIN, 111., Sept. 15. Presence In
Elgin of 175 cases of typhoid fever
was revealed tonight, together with
the announcement that eleven deaths
from the disease have occurred since
Junc when the epidemic began. The
citv superintendent of healtn, A. J.
Wolstorff. to whom reports of cases
were made, is a harness maker,, and
physicians declare he allowed the re
ports to pass unnoticed.
CAPT. ZABRISKIE DEAD
a
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
POCGHKEF.PS1E, N. Y., Sept. 15.
Contain .Andrew C. Zabriskie. multi
millionaire of.Neiv York, died tonight
at his country estate, Blythewood, at
Vrrrytownr aged 63 years. He was a
i - in state democratic politics and
:rom. :cit in the' national guard.
-. : o
MARTINDALE IS DEAD
'epubnean A. P. Leased Wire
ST ' f; WAY. Alaska, Sept. 15.
Thon.aj Martindale, nn author and
merchant of Philadelphia, known for
his writing ort outdoor life, died Wed
nesday night in the wilds of northern
British Columbia, according to word
received here tonight. His body is
being brought out over the trail to
Skaeway for shipment to his home.
AHtAU
LI
Out LiqiipK Traffic
candidate, pointed to Washington's
own experience as proof of his argu
ment for a federal amendment. In
that suae permits issued by county
clerks make it possible to import
liquor from outside states.
This state is not dry now," he de
clared in Chehalis, "and it wont be
as long as there is one wet spot in
the United States."
Big meetings were held in Tacoma.
where one hour's holiday was declar
ed by the' mayor .during the visit o?
candidates today, - and in Portland
tonight. Six. cities wore visited to
dav. Mr. Hanly, created laughter at
Vancouver In an" Open air meeting
by declaring . that the only issue
Hughes had . raised was whether a
subordinate in the Washington de
partment was r. regularly licensed
physician or a veterinary surgeon.
V.
