it
W I Today's Metal Prices JT L & jwii'XvwK 4 P. M. CITY EDITION I
1 ( 2728.50c. P Zm CPper' fJ , Sunday Fair; Not Much Change In
I ( FEARLLo, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. Temperature.
1 Forty-sfxth Year-No. 223. Price Five Cent OGDEN CITY, UTAH, SATURDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 16, 1916. Entered as Second.Claac Matter at the Postofflce. Ogden. Utah.
I Germans Decisively Defeat Rumanian I
and Russian Troops in the Balkans I
A .
I Kaiser Sends Word of
Great Victory of the
Troops in Dohrudja
Berlin, Sept. 1 6, via London, 1 2: 1 6 p. m. The Teutonic
allies in Dobrudja have gained a decisive victory over the Rus
j sian and Rumanian forces, says an official telegram from Em-
iperor William to the empress.
The telegram was forwarded yesterday and as officially
given out reads :
"Field Marshal von Mackensen just informs me that the
Bulgarian-German troops in Dobrudja have gained a decisive
victory over the Russo-Rumanian forces'
Paris, Sept. 1 6, via London, 5 p. m. Serbian troops have
5 put the Bulgarians to rout in the fighting on the western end
of the Macedonian front, the war office announced today. The
Serbians have advanced six miles northeast of Fiorina and
have captured 43 cannon. The French and Russian forces
also have defeated the Bulgarians.
)ir Berlin, Sept. 1 6, via London, 5:11 p. m. After severe
fighting on the Somme front yesterday, says today's German
jl official statement, the German troops were forced back
J through the villages of Courcelette, Martinpuich and Flers.
ji The town of Combles, the statement adds, was held by the
i Germans in the face of strong British attacks.
5 Berlin, Sept. 1 6, via London, 5:11 p. m. Bulgarian
forces on the Macedonian front, says the official statement is-
sued today by the German army headquarters staff, have oc-
cupied a new position after losing Malka Nidze, in a battle with
troops of the entente allies.
; ' Rome, Sept, 16, via London, 5 :20 p. m. The new of-
h fensive of the Italians who are attempting to advance on Triest
jl was developed successfully yesterday. The war office today
I announced the capture of a number of important positions.
I More than 1 ,000 prisoners were taken.
I
Tho heavy offensive launched yes-
Jft terday by the British north of the
1 Somme, the most pewerful in weeks,
II was successful in gaining ground
jl along the entire line, except immedi-
il -irlv nnnnoltd Glnrlir whp.rfl the Ger-
L mans clung on desperately, today's
jl despatches indicate.
fiL-Tho most important points gained
-were the villages of Courcelette, east
of Thiepval; Martinpuich, south of the
vkIB3 Pozieres-Bapaume road, and Flers, two
miles north of Ginchy. These three
u3 villages are new completely In posses-
wft slon of tho British, London announces
MM today.
Km The Germans already have begun
B counter attacking the French at points
n where they recently advanced, both
north and south of the Somme. Paris
B today reports tho repulse of German
attacks east of Clery, immediately
m north oi tho stream, and near Eerny,
below the river, southeast of Estrees.
In Macedonia, where notable suc
cesses for the entente troops against
the Bulgarians in the center and ori
the left wing were reported yesterday,
renewed activity now is announced on
the right flank, where the British have
again thrown skirmishes across the
Struma and raided villages occupied
by the Bulgarians.
In Dobrudja, southern Rumania,
the Bulgarians, Turks and Germans
have won a decisive success against
the Rumanians and Russians, Field
MarBhal von Mackensen reports. The
announcement is contained in a tele
gram sent by Emperor William to the
empress.
Despatches from Athens announce
that M Callagvysropoulos, a lawyer
and member of the rormer Theotokis
cabinet, has been entrusted with the
formation of a new Greek cabinet.
I New British Machine
of War Spits Death
and Stops at Nothing
ML British Front in France Sept. 16.
1B Via London, 3:15 p. m. The work of
V: tho new armored cars, in co-operation
m$ Avith tho British infantry m their
Wi$ charges in yesterday's successful ad-
II vancc, is the one themo in the army
HI today.
HI "Tho idea was so good when it was
g offered." said a staff officer, that wo
HI had some built and tho way they have
K Sono over tho German trenches and
HB have enfiladed them with machine gun
It fixe Is somo return for the surprise the
HI Germans gave us with their gas at-
Hi tacks in the first battle of Ypres."
I Evidently they were able to keep
I the building of these cars entirely se-
I Set and the first that the Germans
HE knew of their existence was when, in
I the misty dawn yesterday morning.
Ml they came trundling across shell crat-
R Ss and over tree stumps, cutting
: down maSy small trees on their way
" toward the German trenches, on to the
Hi second lino and even to the third line.
The return to earth of ichthyosaurus
or d'noSS. spouting bullets from
Ml ?helr nostrils, could not have been
Bl more amazing. '
H' "Tanks" is the slang word the army
H' staff has applied to these strango ere-
ations of machinery, but they look loss
v like tanks than anything else n tho
MiQ, world. It is hard to say what they
look like. They have been compared
both to armadillos and measuring
t worms and to many other weird creep.
Bl ins or crawling objects of natural his-
Hf tory. A ' man of war's turret crossing
;Hv
fields, in and out of gulleys and
through fences, would present a spec
tacle resembling their progress.
During the days preceding tho at
tack, as they moved up to tho front
and tho soldiers gazed at them, the
risabillties of all ranks were tickled.
All sorts of questions were propound
ed. Would the thing stand when it
was hitched and "what was it fed?
Which was its tail and which its
head? At all events it was a steel
jointed incarnation of military secrecy.
Spectators laughed at it but, with the
true British sporting Instinct, hoped
it would at least have a sporting
chance.
I Last night wounded men back from
tho line forgot their pain and what
part their battalion played during the
battle in telling what the "tanks" did.
Notes were compared between the
actions of "our" and "your" tank. Co
operating with the Infantry action to
prearrangement, the grotesque crea
tures played tho part set for them un
der the control of their invisible
crews, which wore their brain centers.
Some soldiers said their battalions had
nothing more to do than harvesters
who gathered sheaves following a
reaper and binder raked with fire.
British army reports never had
stronger passage than a saying thaf.
100 Germans had surrendered to a
"tank," unless it was the one report
ing that the "tank" had been seen
from an aeroplane making Its way
through the main streets of the village
of Flers, followed by cheering British
soldiers. A staff officer spoko of one
having stopped to "browse" at the
edge of a wood before continuing to
advance.
It is small wonder that anybody
who saw in action one of these ar
mored motor cars if car be an al
lowable name should hold up his
hands. They have brought a new ele
ment into the grim, monotonous busi
ness of war, trenches, shells and
bombs. It was the "tank's" day and
the "tank" made good.
According to reports, trenches full
of dead were loft in its wake when the
occupants of trenches' tried to hold
their ground and did not surrender or
fly from its approach. Yet destruc
tive as the fire of the "tanks" was,
many German prisoners began laugh
ing when recalling the first glimpse of
them, while tho British, as a result of
the fact that these grotesque com
rades went into the charge, are
laughing and rejoicing over the day's
victory. The "tanks" have added an
element of humor which put the army,
through all its ranks, into a festive
mood.
oo
SERBS PURSUING
BULGARIANS
Official Report Says Serbians
Now Occupy Fiorina After
Decisive Attack Cap
ture Prisoners.
Saloniki, Sept, 1G, via London, 4:16
p. m. The Bulgarians are falling
back In disorder toward Monastir
pursued by the victorious Serbians,
according to an official statement is
sued at Serbian headquarters. The
text of -the statement follows:
"After two days artillery prepara
tions and the occupation of the ene
my's advance posts our troops carried
out a decisive attack on the principal
Bulgarian positions in the direction
of Fiorina which was crowned with
complete success. The Bulgarian po
sitions at Malkandze and Malareka
are now in our hands and General
Boyadjiff's army is retiring In dis
order toward Monastir pursued by our
victorious troops.
"We made a large number of pris
oners and captured 29 guns, includ
ing several of heavy caliber. The
Bulgarians' losses are enormous. One
Bulgarian regiment lost 1500 men. Our
troops have already descended into
the plain of Fiorina."
oo
WEATHER 1IH
Washington, Sept. 16. Weather
predictions for the week beginning
Sunday, September 17, issued by the
weather bureau today are:
Upper Mississippi valley and plains
states: Generally fair except that lo
cal rains are probable about Wednes
day. Temperatures will average near
the seasonal normal.
Rocky Mountain and plateau re
gions: Generally fair with tempera
tures averaging somewhat below the
normal.
Pacific states: Generally fair with
temperatures above the seasonal average.
WHEAT PRICES
HAVE DROPPED
Suggestions That Greece and
Sweden Would Enter War
Causes Prices to Sink.
Chicago, Sept. 16. Highest prices
on wheat this season have given place
within the past week to quotations
that in somo cases wero more than 11
cents lower a bushel. Top figures due
to the government crop report cover
ing a sensational decrease of the 1916
yield in the spring crop states did not
last long in the face qf suggestions
that Greeco and Sweden would enter
the war and that Argentine wheat sur
plus threatened to find an outlet in
the United States.
Even at the outset of the week, tho
trade as a whole appeared certain that
tho government crop had been fully
discounted, notwithstanding that the
damage to the spring crop had been
the most colossal the country had ever
known, reducing the yield an almost
incredible total of 200,000,000 bushels
as compared with last year's harvest.
Attempts by holders who had failed
to take profits found support lacking
on Saturday and it was not until an
expected decrease of the United States
visible supply late on Monday stimu
lated exports that a temporary rally
ensued. The attitude of Greece indi
cating an improved prospect of the
opening of the Dardanelles gave tho
bears a renewed advantage Tuesday
Republicans of Weber
Meet to Name Ticket
and Adopt Platform
Criticism of the Wilson administra
tion for its Mexican policy, indorse
ment of the action of the state con
vention in adopting a platform that
declared for state-wide prohibition and
declaration for an eight-hour day were
contained in the keynote address of
Frank Stratford, the "chairman, before
the Weber county Republican session,
which was convened in Judge J. A.
Howell's court room in the county
building, shortly after 11 o'clock this
morning.
Temporary Officers.
When the chair called for prayer by
the chaplain, they found George Lar
kin, who had been selected to perform
that function, not to be in the court
room. The Hon. Fred Foulger was
accorded the mission from the chair.
The temporary officers who were in
stalled follow:
Chairman Frank W. Stratford of
Wilson.
First vice Chairman Honorable Ly
man Skeen of Plain City.
Second Vice Chairman Mrs. Anna
M. Flewelling of Ogden City.
Chaplain George W. Larkin of Og
den City.
Secretary Joseph F. Barker of Og
den City.
Assistant Secretaries Mrs. Mattle
Ritter of Riverdale and Austin H.
Shaw of Ogden City.
Sergeant-at-Arms B. F. Shepherd
of Ogden City.
Assistant Sergeant-at-Arms Albert
H. Gamer of Huntsvllle and C. A.
Bass of Ogden City.
Key-Note Speech.
The chairman, after thanking tho
convention for the honors conferred
on him, stated that he was a Republi
can and notaj30litIcIan, had always
been a Republican even from the time
when he was not old enough to vote.
He explained his "Republicanism"
with the statement that he was one
because he believed in tho principles
'for which the party declares,
Mr. Stratford pointed to the mili
tancy of past Republican presidents as
an example, which, he said, Wilson
should have followed in his dealings
with the Mexican situation. He said
no Republican president would have
sent a force into Mexico for the pur
pose of making Huerta salute the flag
and allowed them to return without
having made him make the required
salute. He spent some time with a
discussion of what Huerta did and
what the United States didn't do with
respect to the late Mexican president
who suffered tho degradation of de
position. Tho chairman pronounced the plat
form adopted by the state convention
broad In scope and effective in Its aim
He said no convention ever held in the
United States had adopted a broader
platform than that ono. Hd said the
prohibition declaration was a Republi
can declaration and that the state
would never get prohibition except
Ihrough the Republican party. He
added that the nation also never
would get prohibition except through
the party of his belief.
In connection with a discussion of
and so too did reports of defeats of
thc'Bulgars. Primary elections made
Wednesday a blank In the wheat pit,
but Thursday furnished more than a
double allowance of excitement, with
a price smash of 7 cents a bushel.
Despite the fact that the supposed
decision of Sweden to enter the war
proved to be a canard and that the
reports of Argentine shipments to the
United States also were nearly devoid
of any solid basis, the wheat market
on Friday failed to develop strength
except to a relatively small degree.
Confidence on the part of the bulls
seems to have been too badly shaken
to permit of anything like an imme
diate full recovery, but a renewal of
export buying furnished reason for
considerable courage, and there was a
further element of strength in tho
fact that drought seemed to have
clutched the crop in Argentina.
Unlike wheat, the coarse grains and
provisions showed no great change in
price during the past seven days.
uu
LABOR LEADERS
PERFECTING PLAN
Sympathetic Walkout of 75,
000 Workers to Aid Strik
ers Being Directed.
New York, Sept. 16. While labor
leaders were perfecting a plan for a
sympathetic walk out by 75,000 work
ers to aid the striking railway men,
officials of tho Interborough Rapid
Transit company, against which the
fight is principally directed, discussed
today the possibility of instituting ac-
I the eight-hour day declaration, Mr.
Stratford referred to biblical history
to show that a six-day week for work
ers had been provided for in a decree
on tablets of stone.
The convention was called to order
by Charles R. Holllngsworth, chairman
of the county central organization.
John V. Bluth, the secretary, read the
call. Chairman Holllngsworth then
announced the temporary officers who
were selected by a committeo of five
that had been selected by him under
authorization from the central commit
tee as a whole.
There was somo applause when Mr.
Stratford took the chair.
When the chairman had finished his
keynote speech, Judge John E. Bagley
said that, as the regualr business was
now in order, he would offer a motion
that the various delegations proceed
with the election "of convention com
mittees. He suggested that the five
wards in the city each 'elect one rep
resentative for each committee and
that the country districts select three
representatives at large.
A. D. Fowles' amendment that the
country districts select four represent
atives on the committees from their
numbers was accepted by Judge Bag
ley and, on being seconded by Judge
W. H. Reeder, the amended motion
was adopted.
While the delegations wero selecting
the committeemen, Charles R. Hol
lingsworth announced that the com
mittee on credentials would meet in
the library immediately after the con
vention had adjourned for the noon
recess, that the committee on platform
and resolutions would perform its
work in tho court room of Judge
Nathan J. Harris' and that the commit
tee on permanent organization and
order of business would meet in the
jury room adjoining Judge Howell's
court room.
As a result of confusion that oc
curred during tho se'.ection of com
mitteemen, the chairman granted a
request that the country delegations
retire to Judge Harris' court room
to complete their selections.
The five Ogden districts represented
by delegations completed Its selec
tions before the country delegations
had finished their work. Several
motions were put to adjourn until 1:30
this afternoon. A discussion arose as
to whether one section of the conven
tion could be adjourned while another
was still in session. After a lapse
of several minutes, Chairman Strat
ford ruled that no adjournment would
be taken until committee selections
had been announced. He requested
the secretary to call the roll.
Committees Named.
The selections were announced in
their order, the five on each commit
tee from the five wards in the city,
coming first. They were as follows:
Credentials Mrs. Alice Collins, M.
O. Richards. J. M. Forristall, John A.
Allen, T. R. Wheelwright, H. B.
Thompson, A H. Garner, T. J. Wilson
and N. P. Matthews.
Platform and resolutions Leon
(Continued on Page 7.)
tlon charging conspiracy against the
union leaders.
Business men and merchants who
have suffered heavily because of the
traction tie up are said to be co
operating in the movement to restrain
the labor leaders. James L. Quack
enbush, general counsel for the Inter
borough, said in this connection that
his assistants are collecting evidence
of the transactions of the union lead
ers and that when "sufficient cumula
tive evidence had been secured and
conditions so demand, action will bo
taken."
Mr. Qunckenbush said he was cer
tain his company could obtain an in
junction restraining the strikers and
their leaders from Interfering with
the loyal employes of the Interbor
ough In the event such a course is
deemed advisable.
Several thousand union men voted
today for the purpose of determining
their response to the call for a sym
pathetic strike to back up tho strik
ing street car employes. By Monday
morning labor leaders expect to learn
the sentiment of the longshoremen,
teamsters, tidewater boatmen, coal
bargemen, stationary engineers and
firemen. They assert 70,000 men will
be called out.
The leaders announce that the ma
jority of the members of the Machin
ists' union, totaling 25,000, have voted
to strike.
If the Longshoremen, bargemen and
boatmen go out the strikers say vir
tually all work along the water front
will be tied up.
' oo
President Cancels Engagements.
Long Branch, N. J., Sept 16. On
receipt of the news that his sister,
Mrs. Anne E. Howe, died at New
London early today, President Wil
son cancelled an engagement to speak
in St. Louis next Wednesday. Ho is
expected, however, to go to, Baltimore
September 25 to speak before the Na
tional Grain Dealers' association. The
presidont will attend Mrs. Howo's fu
neral, which will be held at Colum
bus, S. C.
c
Description of Battle I
Won by the British on I
Somme River Front I
British Front in France, Sept. 16, 1
a. m., via London, 5:30 a. ni. Army
officers universally are speaking of
Friday as the best day for the British
arms since the offensive began on
the Somme front With the exception
of July 1, the attack begun yesterday-
m rr-n 1 n rr mail fVit mnct avfonalvfi rf
any in the ten weeks bf the battle.
For the first time new armored mo
tor cars of ingenious pattern, suitable
for crossing trenches and shell holes,
competed with infantry as the British
swept down from the ridges to the
lower ground toward Bapaume. At
this writing the British are beyond
the village of Flers, which they took
early in the morning, and are estab
lished In Martinpuich and Courcelette.
The slow plodding work of recent
weeks which includes the taking of
Ginchy and Guillemont, had for its ob-:
ject control of all the high ground
from the region of Thiepval to thej
junction with the French on thej
right The Germans fought hard for
every foot of it. Delville, or Devil's
wood, High wood and the rib of earth
which the wind mill crowned beyond
Pozieres have been steeped with
blood of men fallen there in their
long stand under the heaviest order
of shell fire in the history of war
as experts agree, as Germans wrestled
with Briton, not for a piece of farm
land but for military and human mas
tery. The British have started their of
fensive down hill. They put behind
them the high ground whose slopes
give them shelter for their guns and
whose crest gives them observation
for their artillery fire. Evidently the
Germans did not expect the attack,
considering that the offensive was
over and that the British would settle
down for the winter in their new and
advantageous positions.
Never before, probably, have more
guns been playing over the same
length of front than along the six
miles where the British made their
advance on July 1 and where they
have continued their offensive with
phlegmatic and dogged persistence.
The Germans kept on bringing up
guns and men until now they have
one hundred thousand in this short
sector.
The Associated Press correspond
ent moving over the region of the
devastated villages and shell torn
earth intersected by new roads, saw
on Thursday how enormously the
British had increased their own ar
tillery. Sun-tanned and weather-beaten
were the gunners after their ten
weeks of work. There were lines
and clusters and parks of guns. Rows
of battery were firing with something
of the regularity of mechanical work
manship of the needles of a loom
weaving cloth.
French Guns Also.
Alongside each other were brand
new French batteries. The gunners
of neither ally could speak the lan
guage of the other yet both were go
ing on with their parts according to
charted instructions.
At midnight the correspondent
again walked about tho guns which
were going on with their night shift
of gunners whose figures were illumi
nated by flashes. Except for the guns,
which know no rest, the army seem
ed silent and asleep, for the most
part. Everybody and everything was
in place and ready, Including those
strange grotesque new armored cars
which were to have their baptism of
fire in the morning.
"We keep on leading, wc of the new
army," said one of the young offi
cers, "and with every show do a lit
tle better. Battle Is the great teach
er." And the guns never stopped their
ear-racketing noise from daylight to
darkness and darkness to dawn. Now
and then the keys of that strident
piano were struck in a chord. When
dawn came all the keys began to bang
at once.
But before the general attack be
gan there had been a hellish little
preliminary sideshow near Thiepval.
The Germans had there a warren of
deep dugouts and galleries which
they called the "wunder werk." Be
fore daylight tho British got in there,
under cover of their gunfire, bombed
their way through galleries which re
sembled catacombs and made them
selves master of the position after
hours of ugly work.
Then, also, before sunup only an
hour before the time set for the Brit
ish attack, tho Germans, who had no
Idea the British wero coming on in
another big push, made a small at'
tack in the neighborhood of Mouquct
farm. They took a section of trench
and were holding it at the moment
when that wave of British, six miles
long began to move. The British re
serves in that area swept over the
Germans and their own men who were
struggling with the Germans, on the
objective set for three days' work.
Those Armored Cars.
A chill autumn morning mist, pre
ceding a day of brilliant sunshine, hid
the actual attack which the British of
ficers think was the most skilful the
British army over has made. The
British were putting behind them not
only the ridge but the old second line
as well as the first line trenches
which they struggled so hard to gain,
and were going against the new third
line which the Germans had been H
building under unceasing British shell
With the infantry went those new IH
motor cars across trenches and shell jH
holes. So ludicrous are they in ap
pearance, that the British soldiers
laughed at them in the midst of the
charge. They cheered them as they
played their streams of machine gun
bullets. Like some prehistoric mon
sters, they must have seemed to the
or flight or else surrender.
So far as reports indicate tonight
the British everywhere gained pos
session of the new German trenches, jH
except opposite Ginchy. There the IH
j German clung with desperate and dog- jH
to-bone tenacity to remain on that bit
of ground in that piece-by-piece de
fense of his. There he still keeps
up the struggle at last accounts.
Again in High wood he had kept a
redoubt with a nest of machine guns
which the armored motor cars en
gaged, machine gun to machine gun,
while the British Infantry passed
around it as around a rock in a flood.
Among the prisoners are six cole- IH
nels. One of these "ft ad the honor of
being captured by the newest weapon,
which has added picturesque to pres-ent-day
warfare. This armored motor
car, which crosses trenches and holes,
ran over the colonel's dugout. He IH
surrendered to the crew, which took
him on boardand, after the fight was
over, delivereahlm EcTa "guard of in
fan try.
In one case 100 Germans surren
dered in a body to one of the armored
motors. Again an aeroplane reported
that one of the motors was moving up IH
a street of the village of Flers, while
wildly yelling British infantry follow
ed it Aeroplanes descended very low
during the battle and never wero
there more fights or more vicious
ones than those of today while the
new armored cars were participating
in the Infantry charges. Altogether
the British brought down thirteen Ger
man planes.
oo
BUSINESS COLLEGE IS I
IDEM M I
MANAGER 1
Two visits to Ogden were all that jl
were necessary to convince C. S. fll
Springer, successor to Prof. James A. Il
Smith as head of the Smithsonian Busi- 'M
ness college, that this city was tho jfl
best place in the country to make
his permanent residence. The now
director of the commercial school.
which opens Its night sessions next
week, is a native of Kansas and a 11
graduate of the Kansas State Normal fl
school. In his early career as an edu- UH
cator he taught In the commercial ',
schools of Independence and Manhat- 'H
tan. Kansas. lM
Coming west, a number of years ; JH
ago, he taught in the Allen Business 11
college of Spokane, Washington, and (
for several years was connected with 11
Heald's Associated Business colleges
in California. He turned his footsteps Kl
toward Utah, two years ago, and lo- ll
cated In Salt Lake City, taking a posi- fll
tlon, for tho first year, on the faculty Bl
of the Heninger Business college. f!
Last year, Mr. Springer was an in-
structor in tho commercial depart- I
ment of the Salt Lake Westside high il
school. '11
He came to Ogden in April of this WM
year tor a brief visit and became il
much Impressed with the city as a
place of residence. His second visit
was in August and, at that time,
learning that Prof. Smith contemplat- ilH
de retiring from active life as an edu- "jH
cator, immediately planned to tike the IH
well-established local school off the IH
hands of its founder. IH
Mrs. Springer, who Is associated in
tho school with her husband, Is also flfl
pleased with her new place of resi- Vfl
dencc. WM
oo
MILITARISM IN
MEXICO OPPOSED
Mexico City, -Sept. 16. Militarism
was opposed and universal training
advocated in a Mexican Independence
day celebration speech hero today by wl
Felix Palaviclni, minister of public in- 01 H
structlon In tho de facto cabinet ill
Palavicini spoke as the unofficial rep- ffl
resentative of General Carranza.
The one hundred and sixth annlver- ffifl
sary of Mexican independence was be- Hfl
ing generally celebrated throughout
the republic. --
