WE DO FINE
BOOK and JOB PAINTING
TRY US!
VOLUME lII— No. 38
Furious Battle Waged For Peronne
——— ————^
French Drawing Ring Of Fire Aronnd Noted Town on Sonnne Front
PARIS Sept. 14.—The Germans have shifted more troops
from Verdun to the Somme front in an effort to check General
Foch's forces closing in upon Peronne.
'The war office announced today that yesterday's ineffective
counter-attack against the southern extremity of Hill 76, north
west of Peronne, was led by a fresh German division hastily trans
ferred from Verdun. The Germans made several more attacks at
the same point last night, but were completely repulsed.
South of th Comme the Germans attacked at several different
points, but were repulsed. West of Chaulnes one German com
pany was caught under French fire and practically annihilated.
On the northeastern front of Verdun the French easily re
pulsed several attacks against the new French positions on the
Vaux-Chapite front.
French artillery has drawn a ring of fire three-quarters of the
way around Peronne, which is almost entirely cut off from com
munication with the rest of the German front.
Dispatches from the Somme battlefield today said the great
eastward push of General Foch's men in the last 48 hours has plac
ed all roads from Peronne within range of French guns. On three
sides the French have surrounded the city, with incessant streams
of shell file. Supplies can be brought into the city only under
cover of night along the roads entering from the east.
VICTORY OR ALLIES PREDICTED BY BKIAND
PARIS, Sept. 14.—A lasting and durable peace, imposed by an
allied victory, has been insured by the establishment of complete
unity among the allies, which has put the Teutonic powers entirely
on the defensive, Premier Briand declared today in reviewing be
fore the chamber of deputies war developments since the last ses
sions.
"The intervention of Rumania and Italy's declaration of war
against Germany have completed the solidarity of action of the
allies," said the French prime minister. "It has comnletelv reduced
the central empires to the defensive and has dprived them of all
initiative in military operations.
"The allies have intervened in Greece for the double purpose
of protecting their expeditionary corps and conserving Greece's
own interests. They will not permit the enemy in Greece to in
terfere with these ends.
"The unity now fully established will insure a lasting and
durable peace being imposed by an allied victory."
INDIANA GIRL WILL TEACH IN PORTO RICO
Miss Alpha Weamer, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. David Weamer
of this place, left here yesterday for New York city, where she
will sail on the steamer Carolina for San Juan. Miss Weamer will
"later be assigned to one of the government schools in Porto Rico,
where she will teach domestic science.
ONE-ARMED MAN DRIVES AUTO FROM
OKLAHOMA TO HIS FORMER HOME
Driving an automobile from Sapulpa, Okla., to this county,
John Stroup, who has but one arm, completed the trip without
mishap and is visiting relatives at Marion Center. He was ac
companied by his wife, three children and a nephew.
Mr. Stroup formerly resided at Glen Campbell, this county,
but moved west several years ago.
It required ten days to make the present trip. After spending
some time with friends in western Pennsylvania, Mr. Stroup will
drive the machine home again.
FERRO ENTERED A PLEA
OF MANSLAUGHTER
■
Pietro Ferro, who is charged with the murder of John Rich,
last April, at Lockport, this county, entered a plea of man
slaughter yesterday afternoon. He will be sentenced Monday.
MRS HILTY IS GIVEN A PENITENTIARY SENTENCE
Mrs. Mayme Hilty of this place, a bookkeeper in the Bon Ton
Store, who pleaded guilty to defrauding her employer of a large
sum of money and merchandise, has been sentenced to serve a
year and one day in the Western penitentiary, pay a fine of $lOO
and make restitution of the stolen goods.
*
TWO ARRESTED AT LUCIUSBORO
Sheriff Harry A. Boggs was summoned to Luciusboro last
Wednesday evening to quell a little disturbance among the for
eign population. Mike Lupo, and Emery Lupo were taken into
custody on charges of surety of the peace. They were brought
to the Indiana county jail and will be given a hearing before
Squire W. M. Mahan.
INSANE MAN LOCATED
Joseph Smith of Indiana, who escaped from the Warren In
sane asylum several weeks ago, is in custody here. He is not
violent and it is probable that he will not be returned to Warren.
Smith walked the entire distance from Warren to Indiana with
only a pair of slippers as covering for his feet.
Published Weekly by the Patriot Publishing Company
INDIANA, PA. SATCRDAY, Sept 16, 1916
CONSENTS I
TO RELIEVING
THE SYRIANS
WASHINGTON, D, C. Sept.
14.—The Turkish Government,
in a communication received to
day at the State Department,
consents to shipment of relief
supplies from the United States
to famine sufferers in Syria. The
action reverses the previous at
titude of Turkish officials who
had refused two urgent pleas by
the Department for the privilege
to make such shipments.
Distribution of the supplies,
which already have been offered
in large quantity by Syrian and
I Armenian relief societies would
be made under the Turkish plan,
through the port of Beirut.
'State Department officials be
lieve that, inasmuch as the
French Government has been
anxious to get such supplies
through and may itself contri
bute, assent of the Entente Al
lies for shipments through the
blockade of Turkey may be con
fidently
The department regarded Tur
key's action as especially time
ly, since October 21 and 22 have
been named in a proclamation by
President Wilson as relief days
for raising further funds and
supplies for Syrians and Armen
ians.
The consent of the Ottoman
Government with respect to Sy
ria does not apply to Armenia,
but negotiations are being con
tinued for similar concessions
there. As forwarded by the
American Embassy at Constat
tinople, Hie Turkish communica
tion fixes only one condition,
that the supplies-for Syria be
| distributed from Beirut through
the Red Cross and Red Crescent
: societies.
Instructions to arrange for
transportation of 65 American
women and children out of Pal
estine on the cruiser Des Moines
were cabled by the State De
partment today, to the American
Embassy at Constantinople.
They will embark at Jaffa, where
the cruiser is to deliver a supply
of medicines and will be taken
by the cruiser to the nearest
Italian port and transferred to
ocean liners for the United
States.
IB
im I —"———-—
COURT MARTIAL FOR MAN
WHO LOST GORIZIA
VIENNA, Sept. 15.—An Aus
trian court-martial, sitting at
Klagenfurt, has begun the trial
of Gen. Riedel, who was in com
mond in Gorizia, on a charge of
having left his post on a pleasure
trip on the eve of the Italian
attack, and of having been ab
sent during the first 48 hours of
the Italian offensive. Two col
onels have been charged with
the same offence.
TRANSCONTINENTAL
AUTO RACE IS BEGUN
PLYMOUTH, Mass., Sept.—
An automobile trans-continen
tal race against time, in hich
the war department is taking
an active interest, started froh
Plymouth today. The finish is
to be Fort Lawton, Seattle,
Wash., and if plans materialize
the last relay should reach its
destination Saturday.
RUSSIANS .IN THE FRENCH TRENCHES
Some of the Itussians now tigiiring oil the western front are here seen IU a
j French trench, wearing French helmets. General Lohvitsky, their commander,
is leading an inspection party through the trench.
f
Two More Cases Of
Infantile Paralysis
Two additional new cases of infantile paralysis in its most vir
ulent form have developed in this county, Grant and East Wheat
field townships being the effected areas. The victims are William
I R. Kanarr, Jr., five-year-old son of Mr. and Mrs. William Kanarr,
who resides about three miles from Cherrytree, and Mary Fay,
three-year-old daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Joseph A. Piper, near
Wehrum. Both children are similarly affected, both legs being par
alyzed. Mr. Piper is the conductor of the Pennsylvania train
known as "The Mountain Goat." Dr. E. E. Hileman of Hillsdale
is attending the Kanarr boy, while Dr. W. A. Evans of Wehrum
is attending the Piper child. Both cases have been reported ta
the county medical inspector, William A. Simpson of Indiana, and
the physician has visited both homes and placed them under strict
quarantine.
INDIANA COUNTY PLANT IS SOLD
J. Blair Kennerly of Philadelphia, a coal operator, has con
summated a deal for the purchase of the entire plant and holdings
of the Meco Coal company, one and a half miles from Homer City,
Indiana county, a 7 ong Yellow Creek, says the Dußois Courier. The
considerations is about $lOO,OOO.
The Meco Coal Company controlled 1,000 acres of Miller coal
and about 600 acres of E seam coal. The plant has been in opera
tion about two years and is considered one of the best plants in
Indiana county. Mr. Kennerly recently took ovir the Wentz
Smokeless Coal company's plant near Holsopple.
ROBERT McINTYRE KILLED BY TRAIN
Robet Mclntyre a prominent resident of BJairsville, was killed
on the railroad at Greensburg Thursday while he was attempting
to cross the tracks in front of an approaching train.
Archbishop Bonzano in
Strong Plea for Closer
Christian Brotherhood
JOHNSTOWN, Pa., Sept. 15.—Addressing the assemblage at
a banquet which had been arranged i his honor by the Johns
town council of the Knights of Columbus in the Fort-Stanwix
hotel Sunday afternoon, the Most Rev. Archdishop John Bon
zano, papal delegate to the United State, made an eloqquent plea
for a closer union of people of all nationalties in America and for
unity for God and country.
He paid tribute to the members of the Knights of Columbus
for the example of loyalty to their church and to their coun
try that they are setting before the world.
"Bigots have accused you of being disloyal to the flag of your
country," he said pointing to two large flags—one the stars and
stripes and another the flag of the Knights of Columbus. "Tell of
the Knights of Columbus is your greatest encouragement to loy
alty to your own flag—the stars and stripes.
The archbishop complemented the people of Johnstown upon
the occasion of the moming—the dedication of the new church
of St. Anthony, which he was here to dedicate.
"I wish also to thank the Knights of Columbus," he said. "I
wish to thank you for showing yourself true knights. In the
name of the head of the church, I thank you, too, for being so
good to the Italian people."
CIRCULATION
BOOKS OP EX TO ALL
ADVERTISERS
REYNOLDSVILLE BOY
SUFFOCATED, DIGGING
CAVE WITH COMPANION
REYNOLDSVILLE, Pa., Sept.
15.—Imitating cliff dwellers
they had read about, Francis
Howlett, aged 14, was suffocated
and Francis Strouse, aged 14*
was seriously injured, when a
cave they were digging in the
hillside on the outskirts of the
town collapsed. The Howlett lad
was dead when dug out and the
Strouse boy unconscious.
PENNSYLVANIA HAS A
NEW TRIPLE ALLIANCE
ATLANTIC CITY, N. J., Sept.
15.—A new triple alliance has
been farmed in Pennsylvania,
according to L. R. Stevens, agri
cultural expert for the Lehigh
i Valley railroad, who addressed
the Pennsylvania State Millers
association here today.
The alliance consists of the
I farmer, the miller and the rail
roads. As a result of this team
work, said Mr. Stevens, almost
| unprecedented prosperity has
(sprung up in the agricultural
districts. He lauded the farm
bureaus in operation in the
state; but while much had been
done, he said, in educating the
farmer in soil science and seed
selection, yet there is a great
opportunty for mprovement. Ha
pledged the support of the rial
road to any acton that the ml
lers would take to intensify in
terest among farmers in scienti
fic farm management.
The following officers were ele
cted: President, S. H. Pyle, Mc-
Donald; vice president, George
B. Dayton, Towanda, and John
M. Hay, Williamsport; treasure*
E. J. Eshelman, Lancaster; H.
B. White, Gloomsburg; Paul E.
Eisler, Butler; Dr. C. M. St.
| Clair, Latrobe, and A. H. Etzler,
Thurmont, Md.
$lOO,OOO LIBEL SUIT
IS ANSWERED BY FOKD
WASHINGTON, Sept., 15.
Henry Ford, through counsel,
filed in the District of Columbia
supreme court today his answer
in the $lOO,OOO libel suit brought
against him by the Navy League
of the United States on account
of a nemspaper advertisecent
impugning the motives the lea
gue and its officers in their pre
pardness propagranda.
Mr. ord does not retract the
statements complained of, but
declares he had reason to believe
they were true.
HUNGARIAN PARLIAMENT
HOLDS SECRET SESSION
ZURICH, Sept. 15.—The first
session of the Hungarian par
liament was held on Tuesday
when the qew political complies
tions resulting from the entry of
Rumania into the war were dis
cussed.
LIST OF LETTERS
Remaining uncalled for in the
Indiana office on September 9,
1916:
Mery Biandas, John Binko
Blanford (2 letters) Don Carna
han, Mr. H. B. Clawson, Miss
Eleanor Clark, Miss Hilda Carl
son, S. J. Dickie, Miss Mary Iss
culish, Miss Marie Gaul, M. W.
Graft, Mr. George C. Knox, E.
R. Linvingston, Mrs. Nancy
Milesell, C. G. Meyers, Leonardo
Manna, Mrs. Kate Ord, Mr. R.
D. Pifer, Seriah Sleppy, Mr. H. S
Smith.
When inquiring for letters in
this list please state that they
were advertised giving date.
Harry W. Fee, P.- M.
FTVE CENTS
