1
Jge afepgAd voc ate
LIBRAE
INDEPENDENT
NON-PARTISAN
Official Organ of the Building Trades Council of Cincinnati and Vicinity
Vol. IV. No. 22
CINCINNATI, OHIO, SEPTEMBER 16, 1916
One Dollar a Year
r'
Keep
His Manager Chas. Gonwer Is the Greatest Enemy Organized Labor Has In the State of Ohio.
Herrick Is Pledged to National Prohibition and If Elected, Will Consider That a
Mandate to Destroy One of Oar Largest Industries.
It as onl. a few e.irs ago that Tom
Johnson sent two joung men from
Cleveland with the avowed intention of
f putting Mike Mullen and the late Geo
ft 1J. Cox in jail foi ballot-box stuffing
and stealing elections '1 hesc two joung
men, Chas. Gonwer and Ilanj Brad
hcrry used cverj means known, fair
and unfau, to accomplish then put pose
Geo li. Cox had hardlj closed his
ejes in his final sleep when Chas Gon
wcr promoted the candidacj of Mjron
T. Herrick for United States Senator
and Cox's friends m Cincinnati, who
pretended to think so much of him, sup
- ported Herrick, thcicbj giving Gonwer,
the old encmj of Cox, a chance to make
a iortune I
His pal, Ilarrj Bradbcrrj, who was'
also supporting llcmck, became a de-i
tectivc foi the Anti-Saloon League and
was the immediate cause of the Spiing
field riot.
These associates of Mr. llenick are
enough to stop Union Labor from sup
porting linn, to say nothing of the fact
that he was sccictlj pledged to and is
supported bj the Anti-Saloon League
of Ohio Sometime ago we wrote to
him inquiring "as to whether or not he
X. ji .. H.was secretly opnoscd to orgamzcrt Ja-
IIUl, Mill Lll CIIUV 1 wri WK. lUtlUU tiua
from one of his clerks, who stated that
Mr. Ifcrrick was out of the city. We
do not suppose, that we will hcai from
him until such tunc as he can frame up
such an answer that will placate union
labor and be agreeable to the manufac
turers An man who handles an thing ap
pertaining to the wet iiulustiy and de
pends upon the same for a hung, should
ote against Mjron T. Herrick, because
his candidac is a straight wet and drj
light in so fai as he is concerned
The election of Mjron T I lei rick
means the dcstiuction of join business,
and if jou allow join self to he induced
to vote for him bv air) politician, jou
might just as well ote foi state pro
hibition jourself as to commisison llei
rick to "ote for national prohibition foi
jou Rcniembci that self picscivation
is. the first law of nature and Mr. Her
rick' s o))oncnt, lion Atlec Pomercne
voted against the Wcbb-Kcnj on bill and
the National Prohibition lull and in
common giatitude, to saj nothing of
the preservation of join own business,
vote for him and do not let Herrick
purchase jour vote hj p.ijmg a politi
cian foi it and then use it to destiov
join business
oi'i'osu aim'oixti:d .irioi:s.
San Francisco As a pait of its cam
paign foi the non-union shop the cham
ber of commcice is circulating petitions
to amend the citj chattel so police
judges shall be appointed bj the major
instead of elected I he Lahoi Council
opposes this move and declares that the
inunicip.il judicial machmcrj should be
permitted to remain in direct contiol of
the people
W'Alt CAl'SlkS IXSAXITV.
Cleveland, Ohio Di A G Hjde,
head of the State hospital in this citv,
icports that dining the jear just closed,
111 patients, or -!'.' pel cent of those ad
mitted, vveie from homes rendeied deso
late bj the loss of relatives m the Lu
ropeau war It is stated that the vvar
is the leading cause of msanitj-, during
the peiiod lef erred to
It. it. shop mi:x kaihk vacji:s.
Indianapolis, I ml Shop nien em
plojcd bj the Coal and Coke R.ulwaj
have secured a federated agi cement
which increases wages foi even emploje
2 cents an hour and upward The agree
ment was witnessed bj a lcprcscntatuc
of the federal department of labor This
official was called in bv the companj
and Vice-President Aoltc of the liro
thcrhood of Railwaj Carmen of Ameuca
sajs "This would indicate that the de
partment is being recognized bj the fcm
plojers, also, as a great factor in the
adjustment of disputes"
Off Of Myron T. Herrick
HON. NICHOLAS LONGVORTH
Republican Candidate for Congress, First Ohio District
CHILD LABOR BILL IS SIGNED
Washington, D C Picsideut Wil
son has signed the Federal Child Lahoi
Bill and organized labor records an
other advance in its fight against this
evil Undei the new law it will be il
legal to ship out of a State any product
made in whole oi in p-irt bj a factorj
cmplojing children under 14 jears of
age, or the product of anj' nunc or
quairj which cmplojes children undei
Id jeais of age
In signing the hill the President slid
"I want to siv with what ical emotion
1 sign this bill, because 1 know how long
the struggle has been to secure legisla
tion of this sort and what it is going to
mean to the health and to the vigoi of
the countrj, and to the happiness of
those whom it affects It is the genu
ine pride that I plaj mj part m complet
ing this legisl ition I congiatulate the
countrj and felicitate mjself"
'I he law will lelcase fiom southern
nulls children who must now be pio
vidcd with school facilities and whose
parents must be paid a sufficient wage to
Li. in tlinin in innifnrt Aml.itioll fori
these conditions devolves upon the or
guncd woikcis, as docs l lie demand
that 14-jcir-old children m anj State
are not equipped, either uientallj oi
phjsicallj, for a factorj life which weak
ens future generations
(JAIXS KOIt KAIXCOAT MAKIHtS.
New Yoik Waterpioof Garment
Workers' Union has signed a union
shop agreement with the Waterproof
Gaimcnt Manufacturers' Association
A IB-hour week and the following w tge
rates are secured 7" cults an bom
nununum for operators and cemcntcis,
$18 a week foi button sewers and lUO a
week for cutters About 1,000 workers
are benefitted
This victorj w.is followed bv the in
dependent manufacturers, employing
about 3,000 workers, agreeing to the
same conditions The raincoat work
crs arc affiliated to the International
Ladies' Garment Workers' Union
WANT XOX-UNIOX SIIOl'.
San Fiancisco The Retail Lumliei
Dealers' Association has declared foi
the non-union shop, which Pacific Coast
cmplojcis persist in calling the "open
shop" Evei) low yv age emplojer, awake
to the nowei of unionism, uses this lat
ter turn to conceal his teal purpose m
the hope that organized woikers will
cveiitu.illj accept the tcim and assist in
bringing the union shop term into dis
icpute bj alwavs lcfeiring to it as
"closed shop "
'"1 here -s no such thing as an open or
closed shop," said Paul Scharrenbcrg,
secrctarv of the California State l'edei
"it on of Lahoi " shop is cither union
oi non-union '1 he chamhci of com
merce is trviug to establish the non
union shop in San Francisco The so
called open shot) is open onlj to those
who arc willing to woik long boms for
low wages The so-called closed shop
is dosed to union men, like the United
Raihoads Compauv In the union shop
there is collective bat gaming between
cmploju and emploje In the non
union shop there is no such thing as col
lective bargaining 'I he emplojer dic
tates wages and hours and the cmplojes
tan accept them or quit."
A "FKIi:XI" OK ClllliDltllX.
Kansas Citj, Md Trade unionists
in this citj have raised a warning crj
against Judge Porierficld of the Jack
son Countj Juvenile Court, who favors
.in amendment to the St ite labor law
permitting children of twelve jears of
age or over to work duiiiig the school
vacation, his reason being that if these
children were at work thej would be
out of mischief and less frequent visi
tors befoie him
I'APKKIIAXCinitS iiaisi: VA(;i:s.
Washincton Papcrhangcrs' Union
No 120 has increased wages -() cents a
daj, making the new rate $4 so It is
the first increase in nine jears and was
secured without difficult from ever)
emplojer of organized paperhaneers in
this citj
The Building Trades Council
Meets. Regular Business Transacted. -Two New
Members Obligated.
The Building Trades Council was call- Clarence Bartholomew, of the Hoist
ed to order with President Jos A Cul- inp Engineers, was also elected a dele
len in the chair.
The minutes of the previous meeting K
were read and adopted i A great volume of routine business
Bro Jno Donaldson presented the as transacted
credentials from the Electrical Workers, Business Agent Hock's report was
Xo 212 rcaL' and adopted
UNION LABOR MEN
LAY THEIR LINES
FOR ELECTION DAY
The Legislative Committee reported
at the meeting of the Central Labor
Council last night that the, committee
had taken up the work of organizing
the township, wards and precincts
throughout "Hamilton"" Countj for the
purpose of electing candidates to the
various political offices who are friendly
to organized labor President William
Brandt of the Teamsters' and Chauf
feurs' Union presented a check for the
pajment of one hundred shares of stock
in the Trades Union Laundrj, sub
scribed hj that union at the last meet
ing Organizer Eh Pollack of the Cigar
Makers' Union, reported that there are
7,000 guls now on strike in the cigar
factories in Detroit, Mich , and that the
concerns where these girls were form
ed cinplojcd aie tijing to have their
cigars manufactured in this citv Pol
lack stated that there will be an open
meeting at Workman's Hall Ihusrdaj
evening at S o'clock for the purpose of
organizing the girls emplojed m the
cigar factories in, this citj. It Was re
potted that the bakers arc still on strike
at Muth's and Schmidt bakeries Busi
ness Agent Mike Schuldt of the Butch
ers' Union urged the members of the
different unions to demand to see the
working card of butcher whenever thej
went into a store to purchase meat
"Doc" Steppler, the representative ol
the United Gatment Workers' Union,
reported that" the union has practical!
sccuied a fortv -eight hour week for its
members in all the hrge tailoring con
cerns throughout the citj President
Biandt of the Teamsters' and Chauf
feurs' Union repoited tint the team
sters who went on strike at the Ed
wards Manufacturing Compaii nine
weeks ago for better working condi
tions, have returned to work as the con
cern has signed a three- ear agreement
with the union
dock stkiki: smTMin.
Sin Fiancisco, Cal The strike of
Riggcis and Stevedores' Union, affiliated
to the International l.ongshoi emeu's
Union, has been settled The new agree
ment prov ides foi the union shop and an
increase of 10 pci cent over the wages
in effect prior to the strike of June 1
For deep water vessels the Kites will he
" cents an bom fot straight time and
1 an houi for overtime For coastwise
shipping, ."" cents an hour and SJJ4 cents
an houi for oveitune These rates will
date back to August 1
1 he strike resulted in the picscnt agi
tation b.v the chamber of commeice,
which has declared foi the non-union
shop This was repudiated bv the Wa
terfront Emplo.vers' Union, which has
conducted negotiations with the organ
ized longshoremen
The strike was pait of a joint move
ment that extended up and down the
Pacific coast, and includes Tacoma, Port
land, Seattle, San Pedro and Sail Diego
These strikes arc still on
OMAHA CONDUCTOR
MAKES WILD CLAIM;
DENIED INJUNCTION
Omaha, Neb On appeal of Edwin
A Hamilton, a Union Pacific railroad
conductor, running between this cit
and North Platte, Neb , Judge, Sears
of the district court issued a restraining
order aouist officers.of he, Orilcof
"KnfTway Conductors .calling a strike
September 4.
On September 2 Hamilton's claim
that the strike vote was illegal was dis
proved and the proceedings came to an
abrupt end before Judge Day of the
same court
This district court is a State court and
includes Douglas Countj, in which
Oinaln is located, and three other coun
ties Hamilton's plea was on new lines,
and contained no reterence to "con
spirac.v," "destruction of property " and
other "terms sU common in labor m
juuetfons The question before the court was the
charge of a strike called in violation of
the constitution of the Order of Rail
wav Conductors and which violated the
rights of the minority In his petition
Hamilton claimed tint the brotherhood
constitution provides for a two-thirds
vote on any road where a strike is to be
called, and' that this law was changed
last Ma so that a two-thirds vote oi all
concerned in a general wage movement
governs the emplocs of all railroads
involved, whether the cmplojes of an
additional road vote on strike or not
Evulenth Hamilton was positive two
thirds of the Union Pacific conductors
did not favor a strike, as his attornev
stated that if it was proven two-thirds
did vote to strike the action would be
dropped
Brotherhood officials presented the
tall) sheet, but this was objected to and
it was finalK agreed that Judge Da.v
should count the ballots, as the brother
hood officials protested that the ballots
were secret and that if the standing of
the voters became known to the rail
road some men might lose their posi
tions The court announced that ")C,2 favored
x strike, or 10 more than the constitu
tion required, and 112 voted against a
Sears' temporarj order was
Riven wide publicity b the public press,
but the collapse of Hamilton's plea was
not noticed b these recorders of cur
rent events
Chcjcune, W.vo Judge John A
Riuer, United States District Court of
Wvoming, denied a petition of George
Wargue, Unoiu Pacific railroad con
ductor, for an order restraining the of
ficers of the Order of Railwaj Con
ductors from enforcing a strike order
Ti:LKGitAPm:ns mi:iiati:.
Washington, D C Federal Mediator
G W W. Hanger is conducting medi
ation proceedings in the case of 2,000
Baltimore & Ohio Railroad telegraph
ers and station agents, members of the
Order of Railroad Telegraphers, who
are asking increased wages and im
proved working conditions
