DAILY EVENING EDITION
DAILY EVENING EDITION
TO ADVERTISERS
The i .j.-! Orcgonlan has th Inrcflt bona
tuU ami giAMalttd pa.ii circulation of any
alter in ONVMi t-Hst of I'urtlaud and by
far the large! circulation In Pendleton of
toy nt'WHjiupH
WF Mini;
Tonight and Sunday fill
Minimum lM)MMM, 64; mast
mum, .15; rainfall. I; wind weM light,
weather, clear
CITY OFFICIAL PAPER
COUNTY OFFICIAL PAPER
VOL. 28
DAILY EAST OREGONIAN, PENDLETON, OREGON, SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, W
NO. 8916
v '
ALLIES CONTINUE
ON THREE FRONTS;
J IN SOUTHEAST
British Centre is Within Four Miles of Baupame,
Smash is Halted to Await Arrival of Heavy
Artillery Russo-Roumanians Forced to Aban
don Whole District North of Dobric.
SEA BATTLE IS REPORTED
LONDON, Sept. If. A Stock
holm dispatch In the Morning
Pom declared the Russian and
German fleets had a battle In the
Gulf of Itothnla north of Alatid
Inlands. Heavy firing wan lieard
along the Swedish oust . A heavy
fog reontcd close observ atlon
of the fighting.
LONDON. Sept. 16. The nllic.
have advanced on three fronts. They
suffered reverses in .ostfieostern
Roumanla. Sir Douglas Halg report-
d the British center was within four
miles of Baupaume. They hold Important Greek cltf. One Bulgarian
Coureellete, Martlnpulch and Flers. regiment lost fifteen hundred. The
They have halted their advance to i Serbians took twenty nine cannons,
await the arrival of heavy artillery. The Bulgarians are retreating toward
They captured twenty eight hundred Monastlr. The British crossed the
and seined four field guns south of i Struma under fire and attacked the
Ancr. The British raided trenches ' Bulgarians on upper Lower Gudell.
it man: joints and fought hand to! Italians Resume Offensive,
hand In the glare of Illuminating Rome announced the Italians hail
bombs. British armored motors I resumed the EvonfO offensive. They
smashed the defenses. The Germans j broke the Austrian line in several
abandoned heaps of corpses. They places. A battle is raging from Got -held
Courselete unlit artillery level- Itz to the sea. The Austrian losses
ed the city. They reorganized their exceed ten thousand. The extent of
ranks In the cemetery nearby and for-1 the Teuton victory In southeastern
t If led a ruined mill at Martlnpulch j Koumunia is unknown.
The British charged down the slopes Sofia announced the Russi.-ltou-toword
Bapaume. The bloodiest manlans had abandoned the whole
bayonettlng took place In Roulleaux j district north of Dobrlo. retreating
woods The rapid advance prevented rapidly toward the Danube. Bucharest
the Germans from organizing coun- admitted the retreat.
PRESIDENT'S SISTER
T
Mrs. Annie Howe Succumbs After
a line Illness Wilson Cancels
Many of Ills Speakins; Flwram.--
NEW LONDON, Sept. 16. Mrs.
. ., . .J 7 i , IBai.
ter died this morning of ' gonitis.
a Ilnwn I'roR i nnf W Hiiti M S B-
tin i ii L . , ,T,i n,T,t
h' died peacefully, Since seeing
Wilson early this week, Mrs. Howe
has constantly been under opiates,
with but few lucid intervals A
Christian Scientist woman practition
er was frequently at the bedside. It
Is understood she visited Mrs Howe
as a friend and nut professionally.
Mrs. Howe was born and educated In
Virginia. She ha.s two sons,
husband is dead.
Her
AHBURY PARK. Sept. 16 Wilson
has received the news of his sister's
death. Ha cancelled his engagement
to address the National Life In ur-
ance underwriters at St Louis Sep-
tembcr twentifth. He probably will mat score tne itound-up is a snow of
go to South Carolina to attend the fu- established merit, the fame of which
nerai. has become both national and Inter
War Secretary Raker agreed to sub- na,lonal-
stitute for Wilson at St. Louis. The
president cancelled Bis Monday and SALEM EDITOR BELIEVED
Tuesday engagements but his Balti
more speaking date, September 24th,
was not affected. The president and
Mra Wilson will probably meet Mar
garet Wilson and Joseph Wilson, the
president's brother and other mere-
hers of the family escorting the body
from New London.
t
Will Is Filed.
The will of Luclnda Russell, de
ceased, was filed In the county court
today. By the terms of the Will $100
Is left to her son. Edward Russell of
Harrington. Wash.: to a grandson,
William Welch is left $160 and the
rest of her $11,040 estate Is to be
equally divided between William c
Russell of Athena and the heirs of a
son, David A. Russell deceased, of
Medford. ('. A. Barrett of Athena Is
appointed executor of I he i
will.
Answer Is Filed.
The answer to the complaint filed
some time ago by M. .1. Foster, George
Goodnight, R. Is Perry, L Seward
and others airnlnst J. C. HosVlns and
others and the Paradise Irrigation
district wns filed todnv hv Attornevs
Rnley A Raley. The answer cover.
37 typewritten pages. The suit In
volves the $2 000.000 .ale of bonds.
Estate I. Filed.
The e-tnte of Anton C. Ttrsen, de
feased has been apprised at $16.
J2H 29 hv Gottlieb Miller, Herman
Bellko and Alex Hudson.
ADVANCE
REVERSES
IN 6ULF OF BOTHNIA
ten. A few Germans still cling to the
Thiepval salient.
Few (.i rrnani at Thiepval.
The Itrltlah flanked them and they
seemed doomed. The French re
pulsed centers on both sides of the
Homme. They consolidated new po-i
sitlons north of Somme and captured '
four hundred. They found eighty six
corpses In one trench.
Unitarians Driven Back.
Salonlkl reported that the Russians
French and Serbians drove the Bui-1
garianl twelve
miles and took four
towns. They recaptured Fiorina, an
i LA GRANDE WILL SEND
! TWO ROUND-UP SPECIALS
One on Thursday and One on Satur
day Provided; speed i-m Ups
Responsible.
LA ORANDE, Ore.. Sept 16.
There will be two Bpecial trains from
I.a Grande to the Pendleton Rouna
l'p The first special will leave La
Grande at 7 o'clock next Thursday
morning, the opening day for the big
show. Visitors on this train may stay
In Pendleton one (lav. two ilavn or I
. . ... . . ,
mrougn me wnoie season, ine
ond ,,,, tran leave lA Qrande
Saturday morning at 7 o ciock. inis,ant wa8 repre8ented by
to lne last day or tne Kounu-up ana
the special of that day will return
at 11 p. m., giving all visitors the op-
portunltv to take In the Happy Can-
you and all other special features of
the great event.
The round trip faro on either of
the special trains from La Grande
will be IS. 00.
These excursions to Pendleton ars
being promoted by the La Grande
Speed em Up Club under direction;
of Roscoe Neal and Harris French.
The club members are anxious for a
large delegation In recognition, for
one thing, of Pendleton's fine turn
out to the recent motorcycle
ron
and besides any considerations on I
TO HAVE BEEN DROWNED
Inland R Hendricks, 25 Years Old,
Has Not Been Seen Since Filtering
iiottinouso vesieraay .tncmoon
SALEM. Ore., Sept, 16.--I.elnnd It.
Hendricks, editor of the Oregon Dally
Statesman, 25 years old. Is believed to
have lost his life by drowning In (he
Willamette 'river here today. Search
ing parties tonight vre drugging th"
river on tho city water front for the
body.
Mr. Hendricks was last seen at
Dennlson's boat house about 1:30 p.
m. His clothes were left In a boat
house locker. He was a poor swim
mer and nlso had suffered ;it different
times from henrt trouble. It Is feared
he attempted to swim a short distance
from the I, out house in the river in
Itead of In Hi muln tank ns was his
custom, and that he suffered from
henrt trouble. Attnches at the boat
house ray they heard no cry for help.
Mr Hendricks wns graduated from
the 1'nlverslty of Oregon In till,
While st the l'nlversltv be was editor
of the Emernld, the University publi
cation and president of the student
body. He was lv-n In Sslrm Ore. He
In n e,i of R, ,T, Hertrleifs. owner and
publisher of the Oregon Statesman
MasoHs to Rcsomc.
Pendleton lodce. No. 62. A. F. A A.
M, will resume Its meetings Monday
evening after a summer rece...
CAUSES RESENTMENT
May Renew DlxsaUsrailloii With
Blockade America May be -Uil
to Kverclso Retaliatory Powers.
WASHINGTON. Sept. 16. Brit
ain's embargo Of the Importation of
a hundred new articles into Seandl
C avian countries and the Netherlands
until (ii toiler first, has aroused the
greatest resentment and may renew
dissatisfaction with the blockade. Of
ficials believe many may demand Am
erica to exercise retaliatory, powers.
The .state department Is Interested.
KuHHo-ltoumanlans Iwe.
BERLIN, Hept. 16. (Via Sayville.)
The kaiser telegraphed the empress
that the central powers had severely
defeated the Russo-Roumanian.
''Mackensen wired me that Bulgarian
Turkish and German troops had de
cisively keat the Roumanians and
Russians."
The war office admitted a further i
Bulgarian right wing retreat in north- j
ern Greece. It Is announced tnat
German, Bulgarian and Turkish ar
mies ate driving the Russians and
Roumanians into Dobredja following
a decisive victory.
UNION PACIFIC HITS
RECORD HIGH MARK
NEW YORK, Sept. 16. Tliere
were frenzied stock exchange
xrms today. outside buying
forced higher prk-CH d esplte the
hears" selling tactics, I'nlon Pa
cific reached 148 3-8. I lilted
States steel common hit 108.
These are new records. Western
I'nlon passed it 1604 record and
sold at 101 3-4.
Stage Little Bout.
Another little fistic encounter was
staged at Frank Frailer 's born last
night with "Plnkey" Brown and Wll- ing earmen.
llam Kelly as the contestants. Brown i u rec0mmended a subway, elevat
surrendered the fignt at the end of'ed and surface car boycott. The
the second round. A large crowd of ,. -Hnrsrud Morgan Interests with
Pendleton people motored out to en-
Joy the match.
I'm?. In New I Yont.
Workmen are busy today Installing
new glass doors In the Pastime the
ater. The front has been completely
painted and Renovated.
Defendant Wins Case.
The Jury In the civil case of Joe Ell
against Henry' Henning returned a
verdict for the defendant In the court
of Justice of Peace Joe 1'arkes yester
day. The case Involved the collec-
ec-!tion of rent. Ralev and Haley repre
gented tne ,)lalnlift and tne etend
George W.
CoUttS and Fee & Fee.
Baptist
Bible school. 10 a. n... Earl Grigg,
superintendent. Preaching 11 o'clock ,
subject. "Covenant Obligations." Mrs. i
McDonald will sing. B. Y. P. U. j
6:30 p. m. Preachin 7:30, subject,
"Coin of the Realm " Mrs. Hagar
will sing. A cordial welcome to all.
I B, R. Clevenger, Pastor.
Return from Auto Trip.
Mr. and Mrs. Walter Cresswell, Mr.
and Mrs. George La Fontaine, Mr.
land Mrs. Ed Mabie and Dr. and Mrs.
K Farnsworth have returned from
extensive unto tour through the
.state They went as far south as the
California line and
fished at Odell
Lake. Everywhere they report they
found many Round-l'p boosters.
Many Obtain Liquor.
Approximately 13S0 Umatilla coun
ty persons obtained liquor during the
month of July, according to a list
which Is being taken from the county
(.erk's office. This is the banner
month so far but it is expected thnt from Ovan E. Allen, president of the
the report of August will exceed the Southwestern Fair Association of At
July shipments by at least 200 quarts lama, tin., asking Information con
Practically all who obtained a ship- cerning the cost and operating ex
men t of liquor obtained the full two penset of the natatorlum.
quarts of whiskey or $4 quarts of !
beer. '
Divorce Suit Is Filed. I
Suit for divorce was filed In the cir
cuit court today by Menlccy M. Lef-I
fler against Charles W. Leffler, alleg-l
Ing non-support. The couple werel
married In 1898 and have three chll-
dred. for whose custody the plaintiff
asks. j
1 1
Vis. unlink
Sheriff Chrlfmnn of The Dalles and
Clifford Moe of Wrentham, left today has returned 63 indictments In this ably as much crime as ever among
for The Dalles, having In custody Joe county, 14 of which were for various them but there Is not the crime from
Montana. Leslie Gruff and Clnrenee kinds of felonies and 19 of which j the floating population of degener
Davls who are charged with robbing were tor misdemeanors. Substantial- ates, criminals and convicts who were
the Moe house. The clothes carried ly " ot the cases have been dispo-'ed j here when the state was wet. "While
here by the boy. were Identified by of. i there 1. always some crime," said
Mr. Moe as those stolen from his home Stelwer calls attention In the report j Mr. stelwer. "from drunkenness, yet
last Sunday night.
Go to Bkcr. .
Cecil Curl and Roy Furnish mo
tored to Baker today In the Curl car
to attend the Baker county fair.
After a clrl marries she loses In
cest In curl papers and fairy stories. I
MEXICAN-AMERICAN NEGOTIATIONS AT
'
mmmmmmmmmtmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm
' AMERICAN -MEXrCAH C0MMI SSIOH AT XEW ICNJXiK. GrtJ)ai SewgL
NEW LONDON, Sept 16 American commissioners Indicated that Mexican negotiations had reached a
most delicate point. They must ascertain whether Carranza is willing and able to patrol the border before
withdrawing General Pershing and the militia. The American commissioners do not anticipate a hitch.
NEW YORK UNION ASKS
FOR IMMEDIATE STRIKE
NEW YORK, Sept. 16. The Cen-
rral Federated Union asked long-1
shoremen, boatmen, teamsters, engi
neers and plumbers to halt work im-
mwJ1o,aiv in sympathy with the strik
the opening of the general fight 1
MRS D. STEWART
CALLED BY DEATH
Well Known Pendleton Woman,
Mother of Mrs. William Goedecke,
Passes Away After 9 Months' III
new. . Mrs. Daniel Stewart, aged 66, pass
! ed away at the home of her daugh-
ter, Mrs. William GoedecKe, ill
Aura street this morning at 1:30
lowing an illness of nine months
Tne deceased was born in St. George, j
New Brunswick. May 19, JIM. MJ
ltt,,,e lo ' T ,Z ,
vears old. Following the death of
her husband, ten years ago she came
to Pendleton were sne nas resiaea at
the home of Mr. and Mrs. William
Goedecke.
The deceased is survived by one
daughter, Mra William Goedecke of
Pendleton, one son, Lester Stewart of
Anoka, Minn , two sisters. Mrs. Mark
Kraft of Anoka, Minn, and Mrs. John
os8 of Anoka. Minn., and two brothers
living in Anoka. j
Mrs. Goedecke will leave tomorrow
at 1:50 p. m. On the N. P. with the re-
mains for Anoka, Minn , where the
body will be Interred.
Fame Is Far Reaching. I lls w'th,a tha':rA aso f a1-1
. falfa. Pillars will be built of melons. More Chevrolets Received
That the fame o the PHe,UMh, pumpkin. ..tC. Inside this! H. F. Peters of thT Peters Auto Co.
public natatorlum Is far reaching is hw w tne otlwr dts- ha. received another carload of Che
at ested to by the many letters re- rlay, BUCn M TOrn, vegetables or all vrolets for distribution here,
celved by the city In regard to the. Wnds fruits, etc. It Is not the Inten-1
pool. A letter was mis morning
celved by the Commercial Association
DISTRICT ATTORNEY'S REPORT
SHOWS A DECREASE IN CRIME
The annual report of District At-i
toiney Frederick Stelwer was sent to!
Secretary' of State Ben Olcott for fll-
ing touay. me report snows mat
during tho past year the grand Jury
to the noticeable tailing off In crime
in Umatilla county since prehfbttioal
has gone Into effect. This has not
been true, according to Stelwer In case
of homicides
there were four In-
dkjtmentl for murder returned and
the suicide of the principal, alone,
prevented the number from reaching
five.
against unionism. It demanded
general strike as a counter blow.
Six trades authorised their leaders
to order strikes at their discretion.
The machinists union ordered a ref
erendum vote on the strike. Police
reports showed that thirty seven
have been injured and one killed In
traction accidents in the past twenty-
four hours.
HERMISTON HOUSE OF
HAY TO BE FEATURE
Project People to Start Monday
in Erecting Novel Exhibit
in Pendleton.
Visitors to the Round-l'p this year
as they go up Main street from the
depot will be afforded a sight not on
the regular program, but which, never
theless, will be a feature worth seeing
fol-:Thls is the display of Hermlston pro
ducts to be located where Happy
Canyon was last year and which In
former years, was the site of the
Bounty fair.
Preparations for ihis display have
,)(.en und(,r way for wvera, week8
nd
now. Just at the finish there is a de- port. Judge Bagley granted the de
mand for the help and cooperation offen?e sixty days to rile a bill of ex
evcryone in the Hermlston country, j ceptions.
The undertaking is no small one for
It is the intention to make the display
one that will be a credit to our com-
munity. The committee in charge is
giving much time to the details and
produce necessary but will no doubt (
call on others td assist them and It is
hoped any such will respond willing-
ly.
The center piece of the display will
i be a bungalow built entirely of hay. i
' Paled alfalfa will be used for the
re-i. , ist , or three sneci
mens of each variety hut a lot of each
that visitors may know we are not
showing lust a few freaks. Attention
will be given to perfect specimens
rather than extra lnrge
Herald.
Hermlston
I
Steiwer does not wish to be inter
preted as saying that prohibition has
decreased the crime among local peo
ple. He believes that there Is prob-
this low class of floaters commit
crimes when in a cool state of mind.
These, people follow the trail where
the states are wet and visit wet towns
on their route.
"If any one reads this report they
will find It a good argument for the
re-establishment of capital punish-
meat."
CRITICAL POINT
mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm
TWO CENT DROP
IN CHICAGO PIT
CHICAGO, Sept. 16. (Special to
the East Oregonlan) Range of prices
today.
Open. High. Low. Close
Sept. $1.18 f 1.48 11.46 11.47ft
Dec. tl.49'4 $1.49 11.46 11.47
Portland.
PORTLAND, Ore., Sept. If. (Spe
cial) Club 61.26; bluestem 61.30.
Liverpool.
LIVERPOOL, Sept 16. Wheat
Spot No. 1 Manitobas. 14s Sd (62.10
per bu.); No. 2, lis 4d; No. 3 not
quoted: No. 2. red western winter,
Us 4d.
To Remain I nlll After Show.
Blaine Burton, well known Pendle
ton boy who is employed as a sales
man for a hat company in Los Ange
les, arrived last night and will remain
here until after the Round-Up.
BENNET THOMPSON
tGETS A LIFE TERM
HILLSBORO. Sept. 16. Bennett
Thompson was sentenced to life im
prisonment He cried, "I am inno
cent." and clung to his chair for sup-
To Build Garage
hllstrom Brothers have taken out
a permit to construct an addition to
the dwelling of John Serrell on Lee
-street and a garage,
is Declared Bankrupt,
A B. Wisdom of Nolin. has been
adjudged a bankrupt. His liabilities
are $5486.55 and his nominal assets
are $5705.
BEI-GIVM IiOAN IS VOID
WmiOlT KAISER'S CONSKNT
WASHINGTON. Sept. 16 Ambas-
sador Von Bernstorff has notified the
state department that Germany con-
aiders void the American bankers
loans to Belgium on Belgian railroad
securities unless the kaiser's consent
was previously obtained.
The state department issued a no
tice for the protection of American
holders of Belgian railroad securities.
Officials claimed the hud no know
ledge of the proposed American bank
ers' Belgian loans. The state depart
ment replied that there is sjaafUoa
of whether Germany has the right to
make such a ruling. It said America
treated the German rule of Belgium as
a "defneto authority" having tempor
ary powers.
Buys Local Farm.
Alex Manning, well known Pendle
ton man. has purchased u 1-3 acres
of land In Riverside addition from B.
B Myrlck The consideration Is re
ported to be about $3000. The deal
was made through the office of Mat
lock A I.aatz Mr. Manning will
raise alfalfa and an orchard.
Don't think for a minute that ac
tors and actresses KUs every time the.
make up.
M.
NAMED TO ORGANIZE
THE 6REEK CABINET
LONDON, Sept. 16. A Kilters
Athens dispatch said M. Oalogeropou
los had been appointed to organize
j the new Greek cabinet.
LONDON, sept. 16. --An Athens dis
patch said Premier Zamals had fin
ally declined to attempt to reorganize
the Greek cabinet and suggested that
the king appoint Kx-Premler Venl
zelos to head the new ministry. Venl
zzelos leads the war party.
ROAD FROM ECHO HERE
IS IN FINE CONDITION
Has Been Completely strawed Coder
Direction of W'catey N. Matlock,
and Guy Wyrtck.
The Round-Lrp visitors who drive
to Pendleton next week from the
west end of the county will find the
road from Echo to Pendleton to be
In a fine condition. This road haa
been completely strawed under the
direction of Wesley N. Matlock and
Guy B. Wyrlck.
Several Pendleton men drove to
Echg last night and were surprised
to find the highway In such condi
tion. At the Echo end of the road
where it has been strawed the long
est It has worn a little and the driver
may turn off this road. The tele
phone poles from Echo to Pendleton
should be followed.
ECHO HOME IS
BURNED DOWN
(East Oregonlan Special.)
ECHO. Ore, Sept. 16 The Frank
Markham house on Kennedy street
burned to the ground early this
morning. The loee amounts to $1000
or $1200, of which $600 is covered by
insurance. The flames were discov
ered about 1:30. The family was not
at home except the small son sad he
had difficulty in escaping. None of
the furniture was saved. Two
streams were quickly put on the
building but nothing but the shell of
the house remains: The origin of the
fire is unknown. There had been no
fire in the stove since 8 In the even
ing. Lehman Springs SokL
It Is reported that William Mc
Cormmach has sold Lehman Springs,
the well known summer resort, to R.
E. Manning of Pilot Rock. Mr. Man
ning, who is a brother to Alex Man
ning of Pendleton, intends to move
soon to the springs and spend the win
ter Improving it for the 1917 season.
The consideration Is said to have been
between $12,000 and $15,000. Mr.
McCormmach has owned the resort
for the past eight years.
PATHETIC REUNIONS AMONG
STEAMER (X)NGHKSS ARRIVALS
SEATTLE. Sept 16. Congress pas
sengers arrived here on a special
train. They laughed and cried.
There were many pathetic family re
unions An old woman cried: "Thank
God." as she clasped her daughter.
Steward Tyion and Mrs. Margaret
Relg were carried off the. train.
HEPPNER VISITORS
HAVE A FINE TIME
The Pendleton boosters returned
last night from Heppner where thev
enjoyed a day at the Morrow county
fair. The exhibits are reported to
have been splendid and a good sized
crowd win (n attendance. A parade
was held In the morning.
Among those who made the trip In
machines were: Joe V. Tallman.
Omar Stephens. Wesley N Matlock
William Dunn. Mrs. w B Brock.
Judge G. W. Phelps D. B Waffle. Mr.
and Mrs Dos Sweariugen and Miss
Daphne Swearlngen. La Drake, Wil
liam Roesch. T. D. Taylor and Mrs
Taylor. Mr. and Mrs Sum Nelson.
Frank Suling and J. s Be, kwlth.
Metre WliiMtnK Cough 1 kiali.
1. at Young, county school super
intendent, returned last night from a
Usit to the school, in th I'klah and
Albee districts I"ht atti ndancr la
reported to be good with th. MMfjQIm
in the I'klah school where the at
tendance Is light rniinni the small
children on account of a siege of
whooping cough
Girl Is ihtii
A girl as born to Mr. and Mrs
William Johnson at their home In
Hotdmun yesterday
Suit Filed In Court
Suit in the circuit court was filed
this morning hv V C LidVail against
Carl Ne.vqulst fur $244 no alleged
be due the plaintiff on a promissory
note Issued by the defendant. Th
plaintiff Is represented by J. II. Parry.
