A Weekly Journal of
Democracy
Issue Numbei 464
Repair Your Jewelry in Time
SEE that your jewelry is in good repair. Bet
ter a little care and repair now than to lose a valu
able gem later. There may be a setting that needs tight
ening, a claw that catches in your dress—or perhaps
you have a gem you want reset in a different form. *
We make a specialty of reconstructing, repairing and
cleaning jewelry and watches. Silver refinished, ringi
re»e«. We do it right.
fVou can Uave your fine.t j«w«lry her* in the confidence ftTHS
that only th« be.t car. will !>• tmk.n of it. Our work and our <S&
price* will »atl«fy.
" IF ITS FROM RICH'S ITS RIGHT*
Hotel Colville Building
MADAM HOUSEWIFE
Do you know that you can cook with electricity
at a saying?
Saves food, labor, heat, and money.
Cleaner, safer and cooler than any other fuel.
Our combined lighting and cooking rate offers you
the opportunity for which you have been looking.
Stevens County Power & Light Co.
ELECTRIC LIGHTS BATHS SAMPLE ROOM
STEAM HEAT FREE BUS
Hotel Colville
The Largest and Best Equipped Hotel in Stevens County
WILL DINGLE, Proprietor
Firs! -class (lining room in connection, under supervision of Mrs. Dingle.
Frank Ko&ka
Merchant Tailor
Colville, Washington
COLVILLE ABSTRACT CO.
Abstracts of title to Stevens county
lands, mines and water rights
I Use Better Flour |
I We will pay $100 for the best I
1 100 bushels of Marquis Wheat J
1 raised in Stevens county, de- |
1 livered to the flour mill. Sam- J
H pies to be submitted to the J
if laboratory for strength U
P and quality |
I TopNoch Flour Mills |
gw Colville J |
Cbe Coivilk Examiner
OFFICIAL NEWS OF CITY AND COUNTY
Colville, Stevens County, Washington, Saturday, September 16, 1916
High class tailoring for men
and women
Ladies' tailoring department in
charge of W. 0. Kievell
Dry cleaning, pressing, repairing,
altering
WILSON'S SERVICE TO
AMERICA'S FARMERS
Remarkable Record Set Forth In
Letter by the President.
NEW LAWS AND NEW OUTLOOK
Farm Loan Act, Federal Reserve Bank,
Proviiioni For Warehouse and Mar
keting Facilities Are Only a Part of
Large Program Executed by the Dem
ocratic Administration.
No administration ban ever done so
much to advawe the agricultural In
terests of the United States us that of
President Wilson The record Is set
forth briefly und effectively 111 a letter
written bj the president to Congress
man A. K. Lever, . halruinn of the com
mittee on agriculture of the house of
representatives, us follows:
The White House, Washington.
Aug. 11. 1918.
My Dear Mr. Lever— It has given me
much satisfaction to approve today tnw
bill making appropriation! for the de
partment of agriculture for the fiscal
year ending June 30. 1017, and for otb
er purposes, because the bill not only
makes very generous provision for the
Improvement of farm production In the
nation and for Investigation* nnd dem
onstrations In the field of the market
ing of farm crops and of the organiza
tion of rural life, but also contains
three well conceived measures design
ed to improve market practices and the
storage and financing of staple crops.
As the passage of this bill marks the
practical completion of an important
part of the program for the betterment
of rural life which wns mapped out at
the beginning of the administration, 1 .
feel that 1 cannot let the occasion
pass without conveying to you and to
your associates In both houses my ap
preciation of the services rendered to
the nation In strengthening Its great
agricultural foundations.
The record, legislative as well as ad
ministrative, Is a remarkable one. It
speaks for Itself and needs only to be
set forth:
First.—Appreciation of the impor
tance of agriculture baa been shown
through greatly and Intelligently In
creased appropriations for its support.
Second.—Particular pnins have been
taken to foster production by every
promising means, and careful thought
has been given especially to the mat
ter of Increasing .the meat supply of
the nation.
Third.—Greutly increased provision
has been made through the enactment
of the co-operative agricultural exten
glon act for conveying agricultural In
formation to farmers and for Inducing
them to apply It. This piece oLjegt.-i
--lation is one of the most significant
and farreachlug measures for the edu
cation of udultH ever adopted by any
government. It provides for co-opera
tion between the states and the fed
eral government. This Is a highly lm
portaut and significant principle. When
the act Is In full operation there will
be expended annually under Its* terms,
from federal and state sources alone, a
total of over $8,000,000 in the direct
education of the farmer, and this
amount is being aud will be increasing,
ly supplemented by contributions from
local sources. It will permit the plac
ing In each of the 2,850 rural counties
of the nation two farm demonstrator*
and specialists who will assist the
demonstrators In the more difficult
problems confronting them.
Fourth.—Systematic provision for the
first time has been made for the solu
tion of problems In that Important half
of agriculture which concerns distrlbu
tlon—marketing, rural finance and ru
rs' organization
Finn.- Provision was made promptly
for the creation of an office of markets
■ml rural organization, and the appro
priations for this office. Including those
for enforcing new laws designed to
promote better marketing, have been
Increased to $1,200,000. The more dif
ficult problems of marketing are being
Investigated, and plans are In opera
tlon for furnishing assistance to pro-
wooonow WIU«9N.
dOcen of perishables through v market
news service. A similar service for
lite stock Interests will be Inaugurated:
during the yenr.
Sixth.—The problem of securing the
uniform grading of staple crops, of
regulating dealings ami traffic In them,
of developing a butter system of ware
bouses and of providing more avail
able collateral for farm loans has been
successfully dealt with
Seventh.—Under the cotton futures
act standards for cotton have been es
tablished, the operations of the fu
tures exchanges have been put under
supervision, and the sale of cotton has
lieen placed on a firmer basis.
F.lghth.—The United States grain
standards act will secure uniformity
lv the grading of grain, enable the
farmer to obtnln fairer prices for his
product and afford him an Incentive to
raise better grades of grain.
Nlutu.-The United States warehouse
net will enable the department of ag
riculture to license bonded warehouses
in the various states. It will lead to
the development of better storap'
Tenth—Of no less" importance for
agriculture and for tlie national de- #
vclopmeut Is the federal aid road act.
Tills measure will conduce to the es
tablishment of more effective highway
machinery in each state, stiougly in
fluence the development of good road
building along right lines, stimulate
larger production and better market
ing, promote a fuller and more at
tractive rural life, add greatly to the
convenience and economic welfare of
all the people and strengthen the na
tional foundations The act embodies
round principles of road legislation
und will safeguard the expenditure of
the funds arising under the act uot
only, but will result in the more effi
cient use of the large additional sums
made available by states and locali
ties.
Eleventh.—The federal reserve act
benefits the farmer, as It does all the
other people of the nation, by guaran
teeing better banking, safeguarding the
credit structure of the country and
preventing panics. It takes particular
note of the special needs of tho farmer
by making larger provision for loans
through national banks on farm mort
gages and by giving farm paper a ma
turity period of six months.
Twelfth.—lt wan essential, however,
thnt bunking machinery be devised
Which would reach Intimately Into the
rural districts, that It should operate
mi terms suited to the farmer's needs
iiiul should be under Hyuipatuetlc niaD
HScwieiit The need wan for riVdrflinery
which would Introdura liuslriess meth
ods Into farm flnaure, bring order out
of chaos, reduce the cost of handlliiK
farm loans, place upon the market
mortgages which would he n safe In
vestment for private funds, attract
Into agricultural operations a fair
IT CAN'T BE DONE!
THERE is no cause for Democrats and Progressives—lovers of peaco
and opponents of the horrors and crimes of war—to feel other
than the greatest confidence in the re-election of President
Wilson.
Friends of his Republican opponent have been making rociferoui en
dearor to impress the voters ef the country with a fictional strength for
Mr. Hughes' candidacy.
President Wilson has th» Democrats of the country enthusiastically
behind him.
He has the friends of preparedness and peace.
He has every Progresnive who really holds policies above prejudice
and deeds above vague promises.
He has the women voters of the states where suffrage is an accom
plished fact, wlio hold their country first in their esteem and who are
able to see more in the support President Wilson has already given suf
frage than in the opportunist espousal of their cause by a candidate who
before never has shown by his acts even the most condescending sym-
pathy.
There are but a meager few states where Mr. Hughes' champions can
give him more than a doubtful chance of securing electoral Totes.
No issue has been joined by the speeches of the Republican candidate
which is of sufficient worth to merit serious consideration.
Behind Mr. Wilson there is a long record of deeds done and legislation
enacted which puts him far up abreast of the time* and popular demands.
For President Wilson to be defeated there must develop such a reac
tion from present sentiment as would be startling indeed.
He has the record of achievement.
He has the shibboleth of peace.
He has the accomplishment of preparedness.
He has a Congress which has stood nobly behind hii policies and has
written laws that the great masses of voters will nurely indorse.
He hag been direct, diligent, assertiTe and dominant.
No public man ever cherished loftier ideals or did mors to win to them
the public approval.
Beat him ? •
IT CANT BE DONEI *
Beat him, and restore to power In the Government the 1 old order, the
Republican reactionaries, the guardians and agents of privilege and pre
rogative ?
* Beat him, and blot from the statuU books laws that reguter a century
of progress ?
NO, INDEEOI
Beat him, with the harrest* ripening into sucn wealth at the country
■ever knew before ?
Beat him, with the Government's credit the talk of the world?
Beat him, with labor employed, wages goqd and happiness the out
ward semblance of nation wide contentment?
Beat him, with the vaults of the banks of the country bulging and
legislation already enacted which is the guarantee of low interest rates?
Beat him, with his neutrality achievements, which have made us the
one nation secure from the criminal effusion of the red blood of the sons
and fathers of the land?
• Beat him when law is highly respected, whm the national honor is
respected, when the flag has been made the signal at once of preparedness
and peace and our people home loving, God fearing and ready for higher
achievements in the future than were ever chronicled in the past?
IT CAN'T BE DONE!
$1 Year in Advance; 5c Copy
shale <n I.if in \ 'i' tin' ntitfiili mi.i
lead tn ;i ri-durii in uf ItilpmM These
needs nml these Idrul* liimc i n met
by the eiim-lint-ni uf 111.• fc.lcml fnrm
loan net.
I am jjlml in have lih ' iii i'|ii urtiinlty
to talM purl In 111* <• >< i •■lon 1.1 i hi*
large profti-noi, vviiicii. i tilert, win
result in Baking Hgrti ri more prof
iiiiiiii' ami country life mire cotnforta
l)le iind Ittnotire and then-fore Insure
(he retention In mini dlstrtrts of un
efficient mill Foattnted population.
I'lilthlully yours,
W'OODKOW WILSON.
Hon. A. K. I^ever, Chairman Commit
tee on Agriculture, Houm of Repr»
tentative*
COUNTY
COMMISSIONERS'
PROCEEDINGS
Tuesday, September 5. 1916.
BOARD MET pursuant to adjourn
ment, all members present.
In the matter of the construction of
section "C" of the Addy-Qlfford high
way number 1; be It
Resolved, that the bills of 11. B. De-
Camp, contractor, for extra work of
labor and materials furnished building
cattle passes at statlonH 420-60, 477-50
and 503, fencing of right of way and
approacli to county road at station 351,
amounting to M 76.10 be allowed.
In the matter of the petition of
L. Slater for a change in the Wilson
road, the engineer Is hereby ordered to
survey and report.
In the matter of the petition of
W. N. Pierce et al for a county road,
the engineer Is ordered to survey und
report.
In the matter of the petition of
A. L. Schroyer et al for a county road
the engineer's report is hereby accepted
and tlie road established and ordered
opened.
In the matter of the petition of
C. Wliltmore et al for county road,
the engineer's rejiort Ih herel.y accepted
u'nd tie road eHtahllxhed and ordered
opened.
In the matter of the petition of
L. A. Miller et al for a county road,
the enclneer's report Is hereby accepted
and the road establlsned and ordered
opened.
In the. matter of the petition of
for the^Horris change In the Deer
lake road, the e»glneers report Is here
by accepted and the change grunted
nhd established and ordered opened.
In the matter of the petition of
Oust Hagman et al for a county road,
tlie engineer's report Is hereby accepted
and the road established nnd ordered
opened.
The following claims were allowed
and warrants ordered drawn for same:
P. C. Wrlgley, bridge foreman, R. nnd
11.. 142.44.
A. E. Mathews. laborer, H. and 8.,
119,41,
.1. H. Robblna, laborer, R. and 8.,
113.R0.
8. M. Olllette, bridge foreman, R. and
8., $15.
T.evl nunnlnghairf, labor, R. and 8.,
110.
Frank Turosky. labor, R. and 8.. $15.
aims Beck, labor, R. and 8.. $10.
Kber Beck, labor, R. and 8.. $20.
Joe Turosky. labor, R. and 8.. $12.50.
B. B. Kasion. labor, R. and Bj. 115.
U Tlmmoni, labor, R. and 8., $25.
V. P. Mvers. labor. R. nnd 8.. $25.
T. IT. Tlmmons, labor, R. and R, $25.
Keller Hardware Company, supplies,
R. and R, $123.!55.
Paul Star, rlfrht of way for change In
White T.ake road, $150.
James Moore, road foreman. D. R.
and R No. 1, $27.50.
Henry Ounther, laborer, D. R. and
B. No. 1. $5.«0.
(Continued on page »lx>
An Exponent for
Stevens County
FRANKB.GOETTER
Tfc3lMfc l J|lftJ'S^*'^r CHEMIST
\k^ LEADING
k*~ ~ii|3sjf] DRUGSTORE
". } -™^ OOLVILLK
Farm
Loans
We have an unlimited
amount of money to loan
on well improved farms.
If you are in the market
for a farm loan don't fail
to write or see us.
Should you wish to renew
your loan that is about to
expire, take the matter up
with us.
Promptness, good service
and satisfactory rates will
be our motto.
Colville Loan and
Trust Company
Colville, Wash.
The Colville
2nd |jjflj|r\store
Stone Jars
In any size from 1 gallon to 25
gallons, also
Bean Jars
For baking beans, sizes from A
gallon to 2 gallons
Geo. W. Kildow, Prop.
Phone 61)5 First and Wynne
Moving and
Raising
Buildings
Any kind or size, anywhere in
the county. Largest outfit in
this part of the state. Write for
terms, or consult
G.H. Staves &Co.
Colville
HOTEL
TOURAINE
Solicits your patronage while in
EUROPEAN PLAN
Kates 50 cents and up. Reasonable rates
by week or month. J block from post
office, near new Monroe Street bridge.
Full view down Riverside Avenue from
Lobby.
Wm. Snow, Prop. R. H. Snow, Mgr.
Spokane, Washington
FURNITURE
New and second-hand, for every
room in your house.
Don't waste any time wonder
ing where you can make the
beat buy.
Our goodH and pricea are aure to pleaie
you
Colville Furniture Exchange
and Phonograph Store
•]jti/' Beat it
FISH BRAND
m REFLEX
if SLICKER
Keeps out all the wet
DEALER% EVERYWHERE
Waterproofs. .To^**
Absolute, ?^P**l
ere Marked thus—
AJ TOWER CO. BOSTON
