TAKE FAIR WARNING--OCTOBER 12-13-14.
The True Democrat.
VOLUME XXV IST FRANCISVILLE, WEST FELICIANA PARIIH, LOUISIANA. SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 91i NO
Do Your Banking
With Us
M{% t, º' ritg riuatIe wrtl ice to) the people
l..tr Iii t h. i{', tc.l itýcl nt fr Wt st 1f' eli. ialmI 1'ur
i.1. Il,1i-. t;U , ,,I.ýl4'4j I#,1tIº 4JV"-.1l'r't'. " V4 tiJ|J* y11 'rt.
.i s t1ne , .. , Iý*iF iiu.tiitiuthuI 's 'uim latiof s th e
' r ' . ,t ,r llln. i't, ,au vi r,4 '\ hit\ it. ability t,
f t ,i s vr i fg yr lir , it er i , 1 c-.t1 1I4,t ' het yetul -
-1t1y Vid it a n dtie I et b u iiº ine s. ts ti it h i i . D o in g y o u r
l,ei lilt I* i ,1t1 , i, I )ig t.l1 p t.t r rl." the returnl
Ie t ,E ' I ' '.I t il"lt , , a .
Bank of Commerce
+ .44"4.0-- + 04,,O 4,4..H " ." -o 4, -4 "-"4r'S 4-4-4O 4 .4O 4-# ý"' i.4 4
f4 .."- " .^ -..-"-" 4 .4",f -e·-o-0 4.--ýo..4,.0 e 0.. -,,-,4"-0- - -#4 0- . -S- -S . 4 -'- .' .4'- 4 - "- '-S -4'--4,-4 -
TO THE PUBLIC
I am in the market
for Cotton Seed.
Will pay top price.
J. F. IRVINE
EDENBORN LINE
(Louisiana Railway & Navigation Co.)
THIE SORT LINE THE POPULAR ROUTE
Shreveport, Alexandria,
Baton Rouge and New Orleans
and to all points in the East and Southeast
I. C. D. MARSHALL,
ral Freight and Paessaes Apaent
Shrveport. La.
.94 4 4.4- 044-. -4444. o-04 0 -4 - 4 -~-4d-4-4-4.4
I am in the market
for Cotton Seed.....
L. W. ROGERS
Photographs
Enlarging
Finishing
When in Baton Rouge
be sure to s ee...............
EWIN G, Inc.,
Photographers.
COTON CROP BELOW
RATE OF CONSUMPTIN
4t'..r it r JTournal t
f itt.i t , t . . ol f 1`914 r tTtalll 11 lh tre
a Ill Iths, r*' hanir to go Uoteadrs nlNl Hllthout
tthcoubt ('inv to fta rand before't atnthe r
o totp i wo t h1ul' o~pt renit it it litioti t
!of litranp no s t,,l tl Athu testria, wh i li'r
tI,:rr,, ,,f "1 pp)lit's. ther is no doubt
.th,,,t o fi' it hi stpltt +' being its d '
ast.l l, I-etrmnt ly and " l .isrif hasrl br1t'.
Lhlll ,,ff f'ritrh .nt'rtPan cottoun IrOl motre
"Ih,i:n fnisi ,:Irt is a resultt of the war
,other fore!igtt nationstl hav t been ;tk.
I tug Itl', thiitn Iunder ntrnlal coitditonts
aftfu-iItatIle to high ocean freighl rates
antd t heir inability to 'omputte with
itht, c( ilitrt itst lnti hahed articles till
uheti'tgl to ttinG' i ' Ixtt't the r,'lduci rsn
i tht t'orn rion olif rit'totltn into tit, liso.
hias beetl! the 'enlrnous antouIltt need
in the manlufacture of explosives.
WIIhtal. how itir. the world's cni
trtllitliptO of iouttonl under Ihe prewe'nt
hnldiapt is i 'lstinitatdt to be In ex'l-s(
of I 4. ttui otu halt's a year. The I 1!;
trup amounted to 11.191,.811 balesl, the'
I14 erop amounlted to 14 156.496 hba'ePa
andl the au',ragt' for the past five y t 'ru
awts I .629.4.to, bal'es Thus the cro,
of thiot year. I1,u.!,000il according to
Rot-1Qin1et1t foI)reirastlt, is far below the!
i-\t trage iof rice tIt years.L
I . ht.althfui fiatl uea i of the cttont
sitlutttorlt is Ih, stead) expansion of
IIh( to , tlc indlsitry in this country,
pirtirutilarly in the Nouth. More than
5t p.r cent of the cotton produced In
this aorntry Is now being taken by
\nni rican mills as comnpared with aot
oer 'r 4tt p'r cent before the outbreak
of the l'uro patl war. The Stouthers
Sltateis are leading In this coulntry tn
the ttanufactlure of cotlntll in the
coltton year ended July 31 last the
*tkingls of Sout0herni mittsl ar e'.tllsithl
to hat, i h.i In 4,t,.llt. h l) btlts., an In.
erets' of W0llo.l)l balPIt oaer the pre
viotis ruear. ahile the takings of North.
ern mills are estinmateid to have been
3,:ttu.,u,0u baler,, an increase of 101.,00t
bale's :Exprlsts last year amounted to
6.26,.oot bales*, which with takings of
Aetlrican nt lls, account for 1 3,600tl,ltH
balt's. In the year indetd July 31, 1914,
texportsa mounted to 9.I200,)00 bales,
while the American mill consumption
amounted to 5,84slttou hales.
In addition to high prices offsetting
to an apprreciable extent the shortage
in production the South Is reaping the
h,'tn'litsi of greater dliersifltatlon of
crop.' A abort cottonr crop is less hurt
ful that ftrrnerl)t, for the South Is
hat lng to buy les corn and otthi r
stapls than when It stuck to the one
'croi -ystPoIt Theret, aret no tlan of a
'hTckk to neIttil |)inPss In the, toalth.
THE COUNTRY GRAVEYARD AND
COMMUNITY SPIRIT.
( Th, l'rttKretniti l"armenr.)
Th', fHitmlly tlr>Tltg grorlnd olught
runlly It giit wity i .r wh'ere to the
(huti r(th h)lrt i gr olulnd We n( ty thlI,
first. b.'rozusE almost any farm may
iass In to t-h haids oftl I nenw, tnerln
lOl iers to hItomI the aIcred mlounds
will tw il) chsltacles to cultllvation;
altd secenllty, is'tlause' We need to en
courage In thle Houth v,,r)thlnl that
lomk tt Ithe' d.te loplumn ,t of the corm
munit) spirit as dismtinguitled from the
fhittlv or litndt\ ihhl tillstIc spIrit,
A frilnd told us the othr day about
a rural communlnit cm.met'ry In M
Kinnelly i'ounty. 'r'iam. thte people of
the uonrmlnitify meeting Istl tree or four
tini-w ta year lt keep It clean and beau
Illiul, antd we kurnw another rural con
tiunity in which a trust fuind of several
thousand lllars has Iecli raised, the
Intristl being used am a perpetual
msintenirac..e fnnd for the' burial grround
What e we t out to augge't.I however,
i siLpil thi' iepphortulnit) for coopera
III I, e w irk ilt rudeenting t'os. country
grateo'ard, fremtI their pr,.sent dreary
1p.e(P'lnnet'ssi of appearance. If there
is a nellct'e'd" familly hblr.> In tground
rwr ouII, ,ihy not get a fu'w 1neigtl tihrs
to IttA il i, u imo antle saturday after
it.'out in pitfliltg It Into shape, or if it is
a church ci mrtery. hate the preacher
it( a alne ftr all the memtairs to JoIn
in hetittifylng It resolvIlng In any came
to plant soune trees. shrubw. vines and
stoiers ltext fall?
T'het' oUly arxment that wil roach
roadl hop land sp.''d manlliarcs must
em,'to,' from the' Judge and can be
suitrn'd up in $50 ANI thirty days.
NMadlsoI Jourinal.
OOT IALL ATLitOSIANA STATE PAIR, SIRRVlEORT, NOV. 4TH.
PROVISONS OF THE
RURAL CREDTS 1
ITte I'regrecic c' Pl'rtner )
T'l, at pr .re,\ icd. tfor the, creaitlion of
t we,e 'ede.ral I;tnt , aloks and prmitn
ihl Istiie.hnIInt of 11y nhl' humber of
oit st*tck ilnd hanks for the puiriolne
of raktnu l leans a:it a reasonable rate
of li t Ir"it. for lotng ptrilta of tille.
011 1 tri L.nttdc
.\ vieral nerm I,:eai l},eard has
(cIlh I, -t,' ulsetrc ' l tover theme bankn .
Tae"lve P's <d raI I nd had itkrk aret pro
etIcd, clone 1' a ctwh ef the twelv'e dis
tricrtl icnto " hch the ctunittry will be
dlv' Ate 'The e ebanks are empowered
to lIlndt ,ell Ilrt t Intrtgages on fIarm
lands s aoui ito o $1f lt to $1 e,1K0) for
approw,,te trttlrlctc . 'I he loans are to
be. ni:h:ode throuclh far l lotan asocia
tlielat anld gieet'its Nec toart riy be
mntl, :,r roret, than !it per t ent of the
valte of the land mcortallged and 20
per ' , t of the value A tf the' ptermanent
ltullreil Iprovemen'nll upon it
Natle iail "';arn Loan Assolatitons
locrll i-rativ.lons colposl d eil,1t
alv'ely of I-rrnoterta aree aetlhorlied
T'hese at ii-at:lItrln nfiut he t totkhold
rrw i thi lh, I;itd eniitkl tli proportion to
th!' arlolhtllse theeir lhit lbters wish to
burorte e s'lntually all stock In the
FI'ederal land banks will be owned ex
clI:\l ) btIt lites e isis cijttioist ,
A re~aseti;hbltce interest rate- is etabA
tisthed The' let iprohibtts the Vederal
land banks from charging mniore than
ii per rent o anly mortgage, or requir
inK frtn I(et alipriveed by the Farm
The hetrrowere a Ill share in the net
profitr lthet hiink hrau'll'se they are
ltec(', khteldters It i c'tellethlltl edliit' that
uit'ltn:etelh Ithe i tre troctree will bei the
onlly httCkicehlel trt.
from t o il to 4i1) tearsi.
nitelt i I;t ii l oIi' i Wrdlih l tele l alr tlfll pa
tinredt o the !i titespritcl are mtdh e Ait
qu!r'red f.itll ire- of aill nmortragel
REGULAR SESSION OF L. S. U.
BEGINS ON SEPTEMIER 20.
'I'te 1916i 17 ncsion elf the lAiuislatna
Slttte t I'li,'rtl. w aill cpe'nll W'tednte
dce ,. :+ie ,t ettoer Tc Th erst e'xe're'I
wilhl ice1 .n a ssemnibly in (lar lialtl at
S;1 lm of all aIlpplil'ntnao for admission.
Entir;aie' and de(letfLcie',lc'y eLiamninattiolln
~e i he tied Sptl'lemher 2, h21' 22 and 23.
-- --+~-------
It the, rece'ilt ;I iof t'clnltre's that
1 1i14l d the' I aIatli:ln Natlionral Park.
tih  tI'te'ld t atlles olltes into posse's
co,,c cf Its flrst grea't laylcround for
Itlh. ie ,cple that lips outsidel its iettlt
trs liisr l Iticuthillarie II It ilinc lets ithe three
t teIt ic,ltllortes, KilnItteit. Mauna 1itI
ernle Italtkatlt, Kilaneall has been atl
'st c' e t ,In tituuslt a'Itive for a ce'ntl ury,
k;t!.l aire, wcurthy . .inties
It it ,l,1 n it et ldcieild what lh the
rleeisr r tt f ie r lielieIt I itt 'rA le Ilw tI-f
fee c hectoi t ie :unt e 'cetttc'd l i er.  ht1 tit a
h ce ;gt ;lrtl.e' eto Iclte c tigators. A writer
iluhi eiti ~ lc Itst ani;htiii. the i gertll is Ia
i:r' 111 Ic .drrei('r lihaI hti hai;ld the' dlrelis
h i itell i Ifileet t h be reictg izabl a
sue Icl bt.I ly a phystelthn The en,
, ue' te it a it plauiihlhe oine.
I.e't lithal hatlf of thee applieatt ftiel
t'.c',elter' ce rifljette' who stood the
rItc Ilet ttsi e'linitliiittielont qualfied fle
crtificitee, actrording to the tahll s 01
retlit conlpilled by John i. ('ontilt
ctaire;tat, of thee iate xl:ainingl bcard
o]f Isc shit' perlmsns sho stoodI the
n'Xaiifal' tonre., 5 pasisd. and of 414
ne,lrcs tr;ci passed. Thle ipercentale o
"Itlcilrw fi r the. white-, e was tf? 21 ant
-ler th, nrerl'rat 51 2.
VIEWS ON INFLUENCE
OF MAINE ELCDON
Chairman McCormick of the )emo.
c'ratir committee isiues the following
statement. "The result of the election
in Maine indicates a sweepingll Demo
rratir victory in November. I have
ne've'r claimed that we would wrn Ia
Maine, because I realized that to carry
!0i0ch a rock rlibbed Republhican strong
hold in a presidential year would be
practicajly impossible.
We have materially reduced the
usually large Republican mapority al.
ways obtained on national issues in
that state and that Insures the election
of President Wilson In November by
an impressive majority. Just u a Re
publiran plurality of 13,600 In Septem
ber. 1892, prefaced the election of
President Cleveland in November.
"It is the irst time UITnted States
senators have ever been elected in
Maine by popular vote and the sIenll
ment as to national assues Is to be
gauged by the vote east upon the same
laputes in ,ther y"rar "
Chairman Wilklox telephoned from
tyracuse to lepubllcan headquarters
a statemnent in which he said the result
of the Maine election meant a reunited
party. assuring the election of Charles i
K. Hughes In November.
KHAKI VS. FULL DRESS
UNIFORMS.
(New Orleans American.)
"IAy' I must tell a tale of chivalry,"
wrote Keats. "For large, white plumes
are dancing in my eye." A British
officer in this rountry recently wrote
to a newspaper that he had observed
on his visit that our army Is toot
mlodest, that it parades in khaki when
it parades at all, that the regimental
hands do not play in our parks, and In
sour restaurants no omcers in gorgeous
uniforms are. seen. Our Amerrcan reg.
Mars are too efflcie't to indulge In such
vanitly
NKe'erihetle's the figure of boldt Sir
Il.:a acr tot with ringing armor and
sjtarkglll+g shieehtl, helment and fe.ather
shilnineg ll tridlting a Jeweled addle,
a horse with burnished hoovesr, which
he gIadtedi with a gemmny bridle, his
agreutI- of bras.I, his hugle of sliver,
his baldrie blazoned, singing "Tirn.
lira" as the' rode charmed the lady of
Shaliot andl etiher ladies, including the'
QueJen Atidt more modsern military
nien hale finiand that fine plumage
makes fine birds In the eyes of the
fair sex.
The' chief end of the soldier, how.
ever. is not a war bride or the' girl he
leaves holhind him unwea'd. hbut the
enemy That is why our men, at arms
tio not tri to live ip to the ideal 1of the
lititish omcer, to emulate" the nifty
aPllarsll.e otf . ir a llunelol or to in.
spwitre hards who Ilke Keats are' moved
to write tales of (chivalry hy the sight
of large, white plume's that dane' in
1the', pt 's ey', and set them in a fine
fre'nry rolling
The hlabit does not mnake, the monk,
nor the illifrmn the soldlier Hnrnioe of
thle' fitercest fllhting the aorld has ever
wsen was done by oullr ('emnfederate
Iresjpia ahen they were p~wrly clad in
the conflllt'h they have had with the
M.xicans our soldiers in khaki that
shoaw o little of the pride, pomp. and
circunllstance or f glorious war In parades
aeqpuitte'd the'ms'clves like heroeswhlich,
instead of making a holy show of him.
silf in military suits and trapptnla. Is
the high amblition of the happy warrior
CATTLE DIPPEID DURING AUGUST.I
Paat Felicana 2,523 herds, .18,324
cattle dipped; St2 herds. 19.951 cittle
Infected; 71 vats.,
SWest Iliciana- 1,77-l herds. 20,642
I esattle dipped; 11i herds, 5.274 cattle
infected, £2 vats,
NATIONAL GUARDSMEN
ARE MANG BIG HIKE
ithgir nnitug .'talurda). September 14.
|Ihe rf,'iiut bet aee',n tian Anrtlanlo and
I ahit.s, hs. Itwer sielect'ed b) enlleral
f'uria'ln foir hII. big divuiional "hike."
Tihe nce r-hine tGuairie irien and regu"
lr iie wll frni a olilru i trien or Itwalvce
uihle In l n tnth and c, hit le aiII have
ai hard trlrte tas si g it The hike will
It' the btiig'st on record. with 453
oetlh'e'rs. 13.410 .'ritted nmn and 5760
animals taking part
For the first time motor transportl.
tion will he used tLe supply an army
divitsin fI'nr the first time since the
C'lil war a dlluien Aill move with
rcom'ileti divisional eequipment.
Piver mltotor trlluck companies. a total
oif 17f mac'hines, will form the dlvlsion
al trains. Two companies will make
up the supply train, two companies the
amnlunlition train and one company the
enlnttiver train The supply problem
will he handled along the lines worked
out by the tiurope'an combatants. San
Antonlo ill be the base and through.
out the 8Ir-milt march to Austin, the
stay of three days in the state capital,
and the eiglht days' return trip, the
trucks will Journey back to Ran An.
tonlo for all supplie# except wood.
water and hay.
Misourt,l Illinois, Wisconsia. Kansas
and Texas will take part in the hike.
THE PEST OF NOllE.
( Youth's Companion.)
A pathetic letter sent to a Philadel.
phia newspaper, asking It there were
any lawful protection from "a nolay
parrot in a congested neighborhood."
awakens the helpless sympathy of Its
readers. The anguish endured is so
manifest, the chance of redres Is so
alight! A roater In a "conlested neigh
borho od" ran be suppressed. But a
parrot. a "pretty Poll," the pet of In
nec.'ut hildre r. the msim. of a deat
old lady who can hope that the court
will rule against so engaging an
olffender!
A woman carrying a parrot in a cage
stood waiting recently at the Grand
Central Station, New York. The bird.
fretted by the turmoll, pattered out its
vocabulary with an occaslonal shabrtek
of defiance. A nervous bystander asked
If it "hated to travel." "Oh, no!" was
the undisturbed reply. "It doesn't mind,
when once we are started. I am thlak
Inl of taking it to Santa Barbara."
"Santa Barbara!" echoed the by
stander, recolling.
"Yes. It will soon get used to the
cars. A friend of mine brought her
canary from Ran Francisco last winter;
after the first ftw hours, it sang all
the way over."
Think of the untortunate. who crosa
e'd the continent In the unollclted
company of a e'analry! Any one who
has ever Ltaken the two hours' trip from
New York to Philadelphlia with a aellgh
ber who never stoppea d whistling can
faintly realitze what those five days
mcst have been. In (Iermany, a man
who whistled shrilly In a raillway car
riage' would be ordered by a magalni
rently unifornued official to hold his
pearre. In Inltand. his fellow travel
era wouldl suppresa him. In France,
as In Italy, such an annoyance would
he inconreelvabie The privilegrll of
making onaeslif a publie nuisance la
rot. to the Vrenclhmall or to the Italian,
a civilized fermn of frevdomn
The' Ilrslan is shielded by a paternal
giovertmenit from the more malevolent
forms ,f musllr Ir Petroglrad. the
grameophone, and the' phonoigraph are
so strltCtiy dtisiplined. so hampered by
rules ard reglllatlorl, as to be harm.
I~eas ele'mlneits iln Ift' IBanished from
"congelteld dlitrlicts." from busineas
iquarters, frorm e'very austere nel'ghbor
hood w·here' relltef has te.'n asked and
granted, theilr ialihe'ard mIntdics have
that surllleIitg awrete'llss that Keata
has taught us teo enjoy
II is prepweed now that we' free .-tOrn
Ame'rrla·cn sho ild doe for ourue'yIv
what it(sial and fllrmatny dI for their
dewlh' citlzene. that we, shoull co
ope'rate to m(olify the needles nolses
that kee.p orte nerves forever on the
rack A singtle dog arking ard yelpy
teg in a back yard will aufface to
e',strroy the pe.aet, of a etslhborhood,
yet i.ven in the close('I vicinity of a
hospitall, where utferlng men and
aerelan lll lr for a few hours' sleep,
dogs are sometimes perlrmitted to bark
all night. 'cause. althoulh thieree i a
law that mlaht in this instance be
evokc'd. no oner is sufeliently concerned
to evoike it. A heart-whole indiffrence
_to the wrell-belinl of our neighbor is not
the hanpplat alprenalion of demnoeracy.
