The St. Joseph Observer
v VOLUME IX.
ST. JOSEPH, MISSOURI, SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 1G, 1916
NUMBER 50
..
w
v
THE PEOPLE HERE
E
OF
Here Is a Story That Comes First Hand
From a Well-Known, Young
St. Joseph Man
Karl Johnson Returns From a Three
Year Sojourn in War-Torn,
Bleeding Europe
Sometimes it is almost refreshing to
hear the truth from first hands
from people who have seen things
with their own eyes and have not
heard them from interested parties
who view things as they would like
to, or who by stress of circumstances
have been obliged to view things from ,
the angle of those who do the looking
lor mem anu uru m iiuamuu iu umm
the onlooker to see things their way.
Karl Johnson, a young man who has
resided in St. Joseph for the past(
eleven years with the exception of
the past three years which he has
spent in Sweden, the home of his
parents, and in Germany, returned last,
week from a three year stay in those,
countries. Trior to his departure three J
years ago he was associated with the
John S. Brlttaln Dry Goods Company
in a clerical capacity. He is a man of
far more than usual ability and is a
graduate of the Gard Business College. I
He Is a keen pbserver and one who
sees things as they are and not as
those directly Interested would have
him see them In other words, he sees
out of his own eyes.
Three years ago Johnson went back
to Sweden to visit his parents for a
short time, that being the third time
that he had returned for a visit to his
native land in the eleven years that
had elapsed since he first left there.
He intended to remain but a short
time, but before he was ready to leave
the great European conflict started.
He made several attempts in the early
period of the war to leave, but could
not do so with safety. Then when he
could get away with safety the tide
of prosperity on account of the war
started in so strongly that he decided
to remain at home 'with his parents
and take part in that prosperity. In
view of the fact that his father's lands
(he is a farmer) have increased In
value from $150 per acre to $400 per
acre it is leasonable to believe that
there has been a decided Increase in
land values In Sweden, and the elder
Johnson's land is over one hundred
miles from Stockholm, the capital, at
that.
The Prosperity of Sweden
V. Vii nan fnrnl no lllea of the I1TOS-
perity of the Swedes under the present
war conditions," said Johnson while
talking to a reporter. "The people of
my country are simply rolling in
wealth as compared with their condi
tion three years ago. Why, farmers
who three years ago would have been
glad to dispose of their farms for
enough to pay the mortgages on them
and then have enough left to bring
their families and themselves to
America, there to start over new, now
could under no conditions be Induced
to dispose of their farms. Their land
has increased In value from 100 to 500
per cent. Land that you could have
bought from $75 to $150 per acre is
now worth from $250 to $500 per acre
and is not for sale at even that price.
"And all farm products have in
creased equally in price and there Is
a market for these products that is
not equal to the supply. The best part
of it, too. is that the season just pass
ing has produced the greatest crop
known for the past twenty years In
that country. Everything grew and
J fielded the most bountiful crop In the
past decade.
"Just as an instance of agricultural
rises I might speak of the advance in
the price of livestock. When I arriv.ed
there three years ago an ordinary
horsp was worth around $100. Now1 a
liorse of the same discrlption sells i
readily for $500 and there is not
enough of them to half supply the de-
mand. An ordinary beef steer then
sold for about $60. Now he is worth '
16 cents per pound on the hoof. A
milch Tpow was worth $50. Now you
can get from $150 to $200 for every
HEAR ONLY
GREAT
one that )ou can bring to the market.
Hogb and sheep have even "'istained
a greater raise and every h'.-ad is
snapped up as soon as the faimer is
ready to put it on the market. As a
result of these war prices every Swede
has become prosperous. For an ex
ample, a neighbor of ours who when I
left three years ago would have been
glad to have disposed of his mortgaged
acres for $10,000, Just a short time be
fore I last left sold his estate for $150,
000 cash and came over to this country
to enjoy his new found wealth. As an
other instance of war prices I might
Mate that there is a sort of turf that
the farmers used to utilize for bedding
for their stock and which sold for fifty
cents per bale. Some time ago the
ingenious Germans, who always solve
all problems, found that they could
use this turf as a substitute for cot
ton in the manufacture of gun cotton
and explosives, and as a result they
are paying $15 per bale for it and tak
ing all of it that they can get. Every
thing that the Swedish farmer pro
duces is on the same advanced plane,
and you cannot help but see that he is
prosperous and they all appreciate the
fact that long after the war closes
they still will have a high class and
most advantageous market. None of
them believe that prices will not re
main high for years after the close of
hostilities and they will.
Hear Only One Side
"You people, over here," continued
Johnson, "do not hear only one side
of the war. It Is different In Sweden.
There we hear and read both sides.
Our country is neutral and our papers
there print both sides of the great con
flict, while here you only get the Eng
lish or allies' side. Why, at home I
could read of battles and the advances
and retreats of both contestants, and
here jour American papers only print
what the English have to say. Of
course, that Is the result of the censor
and he probably does a good job for
the pay that he receives.
"In Sweden we know more about
the movements of the armies of both
sides in a day than you people will
ever find out that Is, until the war
closes. The English reports here al
ways give but their side and you never
get the German end. The Teutons do
not seem at all worried from the re
ports that we have in Sweden, and the
fact that they are not suffering is
shown by the way in which they buy
and pay for what we have to sell thin.
"When I "returned here I came
through a part of Germany, and unless
I had known It from other sources
never would have realized that that
country was engaged In one of the
greatest wars of history. There are
no evidences of it apparent outside of
the movement of troops and the espi
onage incident to hostilities, and as
far as "war prices" are concerned the
difference in Germany is not marked
in fact, it is not visible possibly owing
to the reason that the German govern
ment knows how to conservo resources
and to show the people how to act in
times of trouble. No people like the
Germans know how to take advantage
of necessity. At no point did I find
but the greatest of patriotic spirit and
a sanguine feeling that not only had
Germany the whip hand, but that it
would win the war. The Germans
very rightfully point to the fact that
so far the fighting is all on enemy ter
ritory which the Germans have now
and are holding and that no enemy
now has a foot on German soil and
there is a great deal to that."
Johnson is a great hunter and fisher
and when here is a regular frequenter
of the Horseshoe, Lake Contrary and
Mud Lake grounds with the local
sports, Asked about the hunting and
fishing game in Sweden he stated that
(ContlnuedSn Page Eight)
YES, LOOK AT THE RECORD !
In the campaign dope sent out by the Republican na
tional committee last week occurs the following paragraph :
"The insuperable handicap of the Democratic
party in this campaign IS ITS RECORD."
Now most unfortunately for Candidate Hughes and the
Old Guard every act of the Democratic administration and
of the Democratic Congress is open to public inspection.
Not only that, but Democrats welcome examination of their
record. They are willing to stand upon it. They are will
ing to put it up against the record of any Republican admin
istration at any time in the past.
If the record is against the Democratic party then the
federal reserve act is wrong. Will the Republicans stand
for its repeal?
If the record is against the Democratic party, then the
child labor legislation is wrong. Do the Republicans want
to be understood as favoring repeal of that measure?
If the record is against the Democratic party then the
Mexican policy which is conserving the young men of our
land and not destroying them is wrong. Do the Republicans
want to come out flatly before the people on their policy
of war?
If the record is against the Democratic party then the
policy which has kept us from a war with France, and with
England, and with Germany, and the other belligerents of
Europe is wrong. Will Roosevelt and the Republicans come
out and advocate war with any or all of these countries?
If the record is against the Democratic party then the
anti-trust legislation which removed the preferred interests
from their grip on public rights is wrong. Will the Repub
licans admit that they are willing to restore privilege to Big
Business, and to take the people's rights away from them?
If it is an "insuperable handicap" for the Democratic
party to have acted for four yea's in the interests of the
people and to have kept Columbia's unsullied flag floating
high above the flags of all the nations of the earth while a
civilized world engaged in merciless warfare, then the
greater handicap imposed upon that party the greater must
be the honor to which it is entitled for having undertaken
the burden.
That single sentence attack will do more good than
harm to the Democratic cause, A statement to gather force
must contain truth. This statement obviously is devoid of
truth.
COL. McCORD PRESIDENT
The Burnes National Bank Directors
Select Him as Its Head and Adopt
Resolutions
At a meeting of the Humes National
Hank held on Tuesday Col. James H.
McCord was elected president of that
institution fo succeed the late Lewis
C. liurnes.
A committee at that time
reported the following resolutions.
which were adopted:
"Lewis C. Burnes, who died sud
denly on Saturday. Aug. 26, 1916, was
a descendant from that sturdy pioneer
stock which blazed the way in early
days in the Platte Purchase, known
now as the fertile pastures of the Mid
dle West.
"From his boyhood up, he lived in
direct and vigorpus contact with men
of great affairs and gathered early in
life intellectual opinions and shrewd
business sagacity, which prepated him
so well for the successful career he
entered upon and carried with marked
distinction in the financial world.
"Your committee recommends the
adoption of the following resolutions
by the directors of The Uurnes Nation
al Bank:
"Resolved That in the death of our
late president, Lewis C. Uurnes, this
bank has suffered in a pergonal sense
an Irreparable loss. No other can fill
his place.
"Endowed from Its birth with his
genius; operated on the basis of un
compromising Integrity, The Burnes
National Bank has grown under his
guiding hand as its president within a
short period since Its organization, un
til now it ranks among the first fi
nancial Institutions of the country, and
this almost individual achievement
will stand as a fitting monument to the
memory of Lewis C. Burnes and to his
ability as a financier.
Resolved That as directors, we
each feel a deep sense of grief and dis
tinct personal loss in his untimely
death and make this formal record of
our respect ,for and devotion to his
memory and our sympathy for his
family and for his co-workers In the
bank, all of whom he loved so well.
Resolved That a copy of those reso
lutions be engrossed and presented to
the family of the deceased."
PLENTY OF THEM HERE
Only Possibly They Feel Just a Trifle
More Peeved Than the Smiley.
vllle Man
A Smlleyvllle man, according to the
Higginsvllle Jeffersonlan, printed this
card In the local paper a few days
after the late primary. He wrote:
To the Voters: The election is over
and I got nothing out of It but educa
tion. I learned that three-fourths of.
the people of this county are uncon
scionable liars. If half the men who
gavo mo the Impression that they
would vote for me had done so I would
have been nominated by a large ma
jority. I will not openly fight the
ticket becauso I may want to run for
something else somo other time, but I
cannot help hoping my successful op
ponent will gqt it in the neck in the
geiferal election just as I did, for there
are nptbing but sore spots on me.
It would not be Hard to float around
within the confines of St. Joseph and
find several men who have the same
opinion only probably a little
stronger.
YES WE HEARD AND ARt
GLAD
.
Yes we "have heard from
M-Jne" and we are mighty glad
to hear what we have heard and
that Is that the Pine Tree State,
rock-ribbed and rock-bound cita-
I del of Republicanism, has again
Kone Republican by such a beg-
garly majority a Republican
. ,, . . . . ., . .
sirongnoiu which stiuuiu iiui uavr
less than it normally carries in
the line of Republican majority
of from 2S.O00 to 57.500. When
that Republican stronghold can-
not after two hundred of the
greatest Republican spellbinders
that the country can produce
have used their best forensic ef-
forts, assisted by the personal ap-
peals of their candidate for presi-
dent-f-and further aided by a
slush fund or over two million doi-
lars which the trusts and special
interests sent in there to make
the state Republican could fail
down to nearly a ten thousand
mark, we cannot help but feel
glad that we have heard from
Maine, for it but all the more cer-
tniniv fnr..iinHna thn fnct Hint
. ,,. , ,, , ,.., ,, ..
Wilson will carry it in November.
as the insignificant Republican
majority foretells.
4. Yes we have heard fiom
i .i ... i,.,,. f ......
,..,.,.- u..u w.r ....... ... .......
Democrat rebounds and rejoices
over the result, which is a prac-
tlcal Democratic victory.
HAPPY AND PROSPEROUS
Congressman Booher Sees Prosperity
in His County as Disclosed at
the Amazonia Picnic
I attended the picnic given by the'
people of Amazonia on last Saturday,"
said Congressman Charles K uooner
while in the city yesterday, "and I am
free to confess that I was more than
surprised at the extraordinary evl-
dences of prosperity that were there
I disclosed. There were so many dis-
clousures over the evidences of the
previous year that they startled me.
"I never saw a more happy or more
prosperous appearing crowd than the
one before which I stood. On every
hand there were prosperity signs. The
nit1
n and women were well dressed-
all of them looked as though there
was nothing that their hearts desired
that they did not possess. Almost every
family seemed to be the possessor,
01 an auiomoDiie-anu w.ey ere uo '
all Ford's either and those who did.
not have automobiles had horses and
carriages which cost more than a
Ford.
"Every Indication that was before nounces that all British guns are now
me," continued Mr nooher "but fur- being made at home, but the new Brit
ther discloses the happy and con-' ish loan offered by J. P. Morgan & Co.
tented and prosperous state which the Indicates that Britain's silver bullets
people now enjoy In these Democratic arc still being cast In the United
times of peace, plenty and prosperity." States, Kansas City Times.
CRANDELL BOARD OUT
The Supreme Court Denies Writ of
Supercedeas and the New Board
Takes Charge
On Monday the supreme court de
cided that the write of supercedeas
asked for by the Crandell board of
police commissioners would be denied
and so advised the plaintiffs. Dr.
Crandell, upon receipt of the informa
itlon, promptly called up Mr. James E.
I Davison, the appointee of acting gov
jernor Painter to succeed him, and
turned over the office at once. The
new board immediately took possession
and is now administering the police af
fairs of St. Joseph. Tom Moore is now
chief of police and Louis E. Rosele is
secretary to the board of police com-
mlssloners. vice John E. Webster, who
(reslgned from that post. The new
board at once installed traffic officers
at the principle business street cross
ings, but with this pleasing departure
they added woe to the patrolmen by
putting into effect the twelve hour
shift and obliging the officers to work
twelve instead of eight hours per day.
Interested newspapers sought to
make much over the purported jug
gling of police funds, but after the city
auditors had checked up the police
funds and found instead of a shortage,
as an afternoon sheet had prematurely
and gleefully reported, that there was
$8.84 more to the credit of the police
funds than was needed to square the
account, there was little more said
on that score by the aforesaid after
noon paper
At a called meeting of the new
board held Thursday night, there were
some "doins." Thomas Johnson was
made chief of detectives vice William
H. Hetherington, who was reduced to
the ranks. Captain W. T. Gray was
reduced to the ranks and William P.
Gibson was named In his rlace.
George eber was named as a ser
geant and assigned to the South Side
office.
Charles Martin. James Welch, John
J. Murphy, George Hensley, Sam
Townsend, E. J. Corbin and W. O.
Smith were reduced from the detective
force and sent back to the ranks.
George Roberts, a detective, and
Harry Korff, record clerk, were
dropped from the force. David Beren-
horir irao marlo a itafantfva na uraa
, , ,.,. , , t, '.
also Ed White, and Fred Kaelson was
reappointed a detective. Patrolmen
Cullen. McCall, Parrott. Foster and
Moffltt were reappointed patrolmen
and Frank Yost, cycle officer, was
also reappointed.
Ed Klefer and James Slajbaugh. of-
cers suspended at the last meeting
0I tnp ola Doaru' wer reinstated.
LOST THE UNION PACIFIC
The Fortieth Anniversary of the Death
of Gen. M. Jeff Thompson Oc
curred this Week
..Gen j .. ThomtSon. known ...
Eastern Missouri during war times as
the "Swamp Fox," died in his room at
the Pacific House in St. Joseph. He
had fewer men with him in those
troubioug daya than an. other weU
known Confederate commander, but in
his Indian-like attacks along the river
from Cape Girardeau down he caused
the government a world of trouble.
He was R rallroaU n,anaKer at st. Jo-
seph when he joined the Confederacy
In 1861."
The above appeared in the "Forty
Years Ago Today" column of the Kan-
sas City Times Thursday. It will
bring back to people who yet reside in
St. Joseph the memory of a man who
dId much t0 snape ,he de8tJn,,s of tno
present Greater St. Joseph. It will
also remind them that more than
ob b, had Jef. Tnomps0n at a
1 critCal period in the early develop-
ment of thls gectlon not held the office
of nlayor ot St Joseph the Kreat Unon
iaclflc system which made Omaha,
woujd nave made .St Josepn jts 8tart.
mc oInt and 0maha wouid not nave
,,ad a placp on the map. Rnd ,f u d,d
lt woul(, be now ln tne piattsmouth or
Nebraska City class.
oU of St h w1
tpU Thp fa . Qf thj
cou Ugelf m narrave of
M Jeff Th who
In the early sixties was the potential
and fu, f&cor domnatod
tn,g nt cyand whIch
.,,. ha(, hB n, hpon mnvnr m.nht
be four Umpg ag and Mp
ndnR, coniroPrc,BUy important.
' '
Made of American Silver
Britain's minister of munitions an
THEY "HATED 10
HAND OUT THE PIE"
It Hurt Their Moral Sensibili
ties, But the Favorite Wives,
and Sons, Etc., Needed It
THEREFORE REPUBLICANS
LINED THE COUNTER
Judge Lamm and the Other Repub
lican Officeseekers Who Were For.
mer Officeholders Under Repub
lican State Rule Are Now Deprecat
ing With Many a Sigh and Pious
Observation the Nepotism Which
They Claim Existed of Late Years
Under Democratic Rule In Missouri.
Jefferson City, Mo., Sept. 15. To
establish clearly that nepotism was in
flower during the reign of Herbert
S. Hadley. the first Republican gov
ernor of Missouri in a generation, and
that this practice was in vogue then
to a burdensome limit, it is only nec
essary to examine closely the chapters
in the state blue books for 1909-10 and
1911-12. which deal with the appoint
ments made in those four years by the
state's chief executive and the salary
each appointee inherited through
being the favorite "nephew' of some
Republican state official.
Before beginning this interesting
chapter on Republican nepotism it is
probably well to state that when Gov
ernor Elliott W. Major was inaugu
rated in January, 1913, his gift from
the Hadley administration was a neat
prize in the form of a deficit of $476,
000, forming a state indebtedness in
curred in four years of Republican
misrule, which the taxpayers since
met to save the credit of a great
commonwealth.
juage Lamm Cared for Donald
Judge Henry Lamm, the present Re
publican selection for governor, then
was on the supreme court bench
through the entire Hadley reign, and
while now one of his favorite cam
paign themes is anti-nepotism, but,
lo and behold! the two blue books
referred to as authority for what was
in flower then, disclose that his son,
Donald Henry, was on the state pay
roll as his private stenographer at
$1,500 per annum. Then take the state
public school department, under the
guidance of Republican State Superin
tendent William P. Evans; tbename
of his sister-in-law appears, rated at
$1,000 a year, among his appointees.
In addition some of the extra work of
this department was then done by the
wives and other relatives of high sal
aried attaches.
State Labor Commissioner Austin
W. Biggs first carried his son. A. W.
Biggs, Jr.. in the position of a stenog
rapher at $900 a year, but during the
pious reign of the Kansas governor o!
Missouri, Biggs Jr.'s salary was first
boosted to $85 a month and then to
$125. Extra work in this department
was passed out gratefully to the wife
of another high priced employe at the
modest sum of $75 a month.
A Real "Nice" Republican
Wm. W. Wilder, a very nice gentle
man. Republican in sentiment and
beer Inspector by appointment, found
It expedient to carry his son, Wm. Rus
sel Wilder, on the payroll of that de
partment as a clerk with the modest
sum of $1,500 as an inducement for the
young man to remain In the service
of the state. Sherman T. Gresham,
Republican supervisor of the bureau
of building and loans, found use for
his wife as a stenographer and book
keeper ln his department at $75 a
month.
In the department ot the state game
warden, where Jesse L. Tollerton held
sway, "son" Tollerton was one of his
appointees at $00 a year. An $1,800
position in the St. Louis state ware
house and grain inspection department
would have ben seeking an applicant
had not Fraiik A. WIghtman, Repub
lican member of the board of railroad
commission1 rs. appointed his brother.
1. M. Wightman, to this much desired
job at $150 per month.
And Tley Were "So Unwlllng"
Quite unwillingly one of the old blue
books brings Into limelight Henry
Andrae, former Republican warden of
the penitentiary, for practicing nepot
ism because he was Imprudent enough
to give his brother-in-law. Adolph
Meyer, ent're charge of the penal com
missary of that instution at the modest
salary of $100 a month. Dire neces-
(Continued on Page Eight)
V
