THE BARME DAILY TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 156.
UAHKK, VKHMOXT. SATURDAY. SKPTKMHKIt 10, 1910.
PRICE, OXK CKXT.
THREE
TOWNS
TAKEN
The British Captured Cour
cellctte, Martinpuich and
L FIcrs and Now Hold Them
in Their Entirety, Accord
ing to Official Announce
ment Made This Afternoon
2,300 GERMANS
MADE PRISONERS
French Have Successfully
Resisted Several Attempts
of Germans in Counter
Attacks, Says the French
Official Statement Issued
To-day
London, Sept. 16. As the result of
their offensive north of the Somme, be
gun yesterday morning along a six-mile
front north of Corables to beyond the
Pafieres-Bapaume road, the British hold
in their entirety the villages of Coureel
ette, Martinpuich and Flers, the war of
fire announced this afternoon.
Last night's statement told of the
great gain and of the capture of 2.300
Prisoners, the statement Is as follows
"Tn.Aav'a fiirhtinc. which has been Be
vere, resulted in our capture of virtually
all the high ground between Combles and
the Pozicres-Bapaume road.
"Most of the Bouleaux wood, Flers,
High wood, Martinpuich and Courcelette
have fallen into our hands. The enemy
fought stubbornly to retain his ground.
"Over 2,300 prisoners already have
been passed back, including fi5 officers,
six of them being battalion commanders.
Our air service to-day maintained a
constant successful co-operation with our
artillery and infantry. Frequent accur
ate reports have been furnished of the
course of the battle. Hostile artillery
and infantry have been effectually
gauged by our aeroplanes with machine
gun fire. Many bombing attacks were
active Thursday night. A group of 10
machine dropped 77 bomb and 12.H in
cendiary bomb on the Mutton at railway
t Tcrgnier and Chatehiiy and on the
station and barrack at Guiscrd. Nu
merous hit were made. A huge lire was
observed at Tcrgnier and the commence
ment of a blaze ut Guisoard.
"Another squadron dropped 40 shells
on the ltarrack at Steimy, where several
fire were observed and 40 bombs on
work at J.omhucli. One of our pilot
pushed as far as Dillingcn, in the valley
of the Saar, and dropped eight bombs on
a large factory where a fire is reported
to have been observed. The same night
the Rombach blast furnaces received 10
bombs and four more bombs fell on the
railway between Motz and Pont-A Moiis
son, which was seriou.dy damaged."
BULGARIANS
IN RETREAT
Serbian Official Statement
Says They Are Falling
Back in Disorder
GERMANS FOUGHT STUBBORNLY.
WITH THE SERBIANS
IN CLOSE PURSUIT
Von Mackensen Wins Deci
sive Victory Over Russo
Rumanian Forces
And British Captured 2,300 Prisoners In
Friday's Drive.
London, Sept. lfi Smashing the Her
man line on a front of six miles north
of the Somme in France, the P.ritish
forces have made probably the most no-
. 1 t , . I. 4 1 L'rnH..l, r
ui auvance sinc mu .-oj,iu- u u i
frnsive began July 1.
Three towns, two woods and tne pos
session of nearly all the high ground
between Combles and the IWieros lia
na tune road fell to the British. Not only
did the Germans lose these points, lint
the British drive imperils the I ombloj
and Thiepval positions, nt either end of
the British front, i he gaining oi mo
high ground north of Combles gives the
British command of the approaches to
Ba pa time.
The advance on the northern end ot
the front was for a distance of two
i . . .. a a 'r-u: 1 .. i
nines, i ourceieno, oust, oi uit' x, V(, M:.i-n. if !',-.. ,
north of the Fo,.ieres Bapaunie road, and , , 1!,fr,lrinnJ.T,lrUiah.f:.I.man
v Saloniki. Sept. lfl. The Bulgarians
are falling back in disorder toward Mon
aster, pursued by victorious Serbians, ac
cording to an official statement issued at
Serbian headquarters.
Berlin, via London, Sept. 10. The Teu
tonic allies in Dobrudja gained a decis
ive victory over Russian and Rumanian
forces, says a telegram from Emperor
William to the empress. The telegram
us officially given out. savs: "Field Mar-
DROPPED DEAD IN HOTEL.
Charles W. Bowen of Providence Wss in
St, Johnsbury.
St. JohiiHlniry, Sept. lfl.-Cliurles W,
Bowen of iTovidence, 11. I., Hge 07
droped dead of heart failure In the office
or the St. Johnnbury house last even
ing.
.Mr. Howen and liis son, r.dward, came
here Tuesday following on automobile
trip through northern New England. The
on underwent a alight operation at
Bright look hospital yesterday morning
and they had planned on returning to
1'iVivllence as soon as the bov was
discharged, in a day or two. Mr. Bowen
was formerly employed at the Profile
house in the V hite mountains and. was
sketching a plan of that building for the
benefit of several men in the hotel office
when he suddenly died. Mr. Bowen, who
was a dealer in electrical appliances,
leaves three sons, Edward and Richard of
Providence and Charles, who is with the
Bhodii Island cavalry on the border, and
a daughter, Miss Rebecca Bowen, of
Providence.
HAD NARROW ESCAPE.
Martinputoh, south of the road, fell into
the hands of General Haig's men. Fur
ther south they took Flers and the High
wood, making secure their possession of
;inchr. The Bouleaiix wood north of
Combles, also was lost to the German.
The Germans under Crown Prince Rup-
prceht of Bavaria fought stubbornly to
hold their ground, London says, and tne
fighting was severe all along the line.
Bore than 2,300 prisoners were taken by
the British.
U. S. TRADE SECRETS SAFE.
With British Censor, Declares David
Lloyd George.
Ijondon, Sept. 16. David Llovd George,
British secretary of war, yesterday gave
the Associated Press the following
statement:
"There appears to be a deliberate cam
paign, set on toot in the L nitod stales
by German agents, to throw doubt on the
good faith of His Majesty's government
in regard to the use of information ob
tained through the censorship.
These German agents, with whose un
derground methods of working we ere
quite familiar, appear now to have resur
rected mv statement in the House of
Commons on August 8, although that
statement was fully explained by Lord
Robert Cecil, minister of wa,r trade, on
August 9 and most explicit assurances
on the same subject were given by him
a later interview on August 2.".
Bulga
troops in Dobrudja have gained a de
cisive vietorv over the RussoRumanian
forces."
AUSTRIAN SEAPLANES
DO EFFECTIVE WORK
me now sav on behalf of the military
In spite of this these propagandists
are trving to dress out mv statement as
carried out against hostile aerodromes "'"Jf nullifying Lord Robert
and railway stations in the course K ecile s assurances which followed , Let
which troop trains were hit and trans-
Jfort and railway sidings were attacked
with machine gun lire.
Another German kite balloon was
brought down. The total number of hos
tile aeroplanes destroyed to-day was 13.
June others were driven down in a dam
aged condition. Four of our machines
ore missing."
Bombs Were Dropped on Isonzo Front
and Numerous Hits' Were Made,
According to Vienna State
ment. Vienna, via London, Sept. 16. Success
ful operations by Austrian seaplanes at
points on the Isonzo front are reported
in an official statement which says:
"Ono of our seaplane squadrons Thurs
day night attacked batteries and mili
tary objects at Vallone. Bombs of a to
tal weight of one and one-half tons were
dropped and numerous hits were ob
tained, causing extensive fires. Despite
heavy shelling from Italian air-craft
guns, all the machines returned safe
ly. On Thursday afternoon a seaplane
squadron successfully bombarded Ital
ian batteries on the lower Isonzo and
Adria rivers and works near Mnlfalcone
and returned safely."
Men Jumped from Motor Railroad Car
Just in Time.
Poultney, Sept. 16. As 8. H. Rich
ards, section bos for the quarry branch
from Bethel, with his crew, five in all,
were going on his motor railroad car
yesterday morning through the village,
he saw an engine only a little distance
ahead coming towards hliVi at full speed,
it was raining hard and most of tne crew
were under their canvass cover. The
men barely escaped and the car was
picked up by the engine and carried
from the railroad switch, some 11 rods
away. The car was broken in sucn a
way that there is little left except junk
UNIONS VOTE
ON A STRIKE
First of Those Proposing
Sympathetic Movement
in New York
LABOR LEADERS SAY
70,000 WILL GO OU1
During Past 24 Hours, One
Man Has Been Killed
and 54 Injured
TALK OF THE TOWN
WOUNDED IN FRANCE.
Brig.-Gen. Lord Brooke, Eldest Son of
Fifth Earl of Warwick.
London, Sept. 16. Brig.-Gen. Lord
I Brooke has been wounded in France.
FRENCH HURL BACK
COUNTER-ATTACKS
AT TWO PLACES
Continue to Hold Their Gains Both North
and South of the Somme River
and Combles Is Nearly
Surrounded.
jLParis, Sept. 16. German counter at-
taeKS were made n French lines both
north and south of the Somme last night.
They were unsuccessful, the war office
announced to-day. The assaults were de
livered to the east of Clery on the north
bank of the river and east of Berny on
the south bank below Peronne.
North of the Somme the French forces
yesterday took a system of trenches 600
meters deep from the Germans north of
the LePries farm, thus with the aid of
the British rendering the encirclement of
the town of Combles closer, says the war
office communication issued last night.
It is added that near Berny-kn-San-
terre, south of the Somme, three German
trenches and 200 prisoners, five of them
officers, were captured. Successful avia
tion operatiorts were carried out on the
Somme front. The communication says:
"North of the Somme we accomplished
nvj advance north of LePnez farm, where
we took a system of trenches to a depth
of 500 meters. This advance in conjunc
tion with the British operations marks
the beginning of the encircling of Com
bles.
"South of the Somme two attacks be
gun at 4 p. m. in the sector of Danie-court-Berny
brought us considerable
gains. hast or ueniecourt a trench
Lord Brooke is the eldest son of the
fifth Earl of Warwick and has lately
authorities what has already been sain : . , m-,i f !, VrmrH, inf.n
on behalf of the foreign office that when jtry br;dgade of tbe Canadian expedition
information is passed on by the censor- Lrv forf(1 ,e comlnan(ied the manoeuvres
ship to other departments it is for the in-(.,lnaIa in m4 an- wag tti(le de Mmp
sole purpose of guiding the action ot the oomn,ander-in-chief of the British
government in the conduct of the war.
"For instance, when we get informa
tion that an American firm, to whom the
foreign office has given a permit for
the export of certain German goods from
Rotterdam, on the ground that these
goods had been paid for before the war,
is using that permit fraudulently, as
frequently has been the case, we pass
the information on to the foreign office
in order that they may cancel the permit.
Again, when we find that a neutral
firm is using British banking facilities
for the purpose of trading with our
enemies and is deceiving the. British
banks in question as to the real pitrjMise
army in France in 1914 and 1915.
PRINCE OF HESSE KILLED.
Nephew of Emperor William Was Fight,
ing in the Balkans.
Berlin, Sept. 16, via Iondon. Prince
Frederick William of Hesse has been
killed at Cara Orman, it was officially
announced by the war office yesterday
in its report on operations on the Balkan
front.
Prince. Frederick William of Hesee
was a nephew of Emperor William. He
was liorn in 1893, the oldest son of Prince
of the transaction, we pass that infor- Frederick Charles of Hesse and-Prinoes
mation on to the proper department in Margaret, sister of the German emper
order that they m:iy refuse to license I or. He was reported wounded in the
fighting in France in September, inn.
WILL ASSIST HUGHES.
the transaction. Or, again, if we learn
that a shipment of contraband, ostensi
bly from one neutral firm to another, is
really destined for the. enemy, we see
that the contraband committee gets that National Woman's Campaign Committee
information. fn Particinate in Camnaiirn.
"That, frankly stated, is what we do.
R . oOlrtn inI h llon(. inrnng tn New lork. CPt. In. William XV. win-
deny it, that honest business interests ! cox, chairman of the Bepublican commit
and trade secrets of an American mer- tee, last night announced the appoint
chant or manufacturer are as safe in nient of a national woman's campaign
the hands of the military censors, and
of every other government department
as they are in the hands of the Amer
ican postoffice."
FRESH EVIDENCE FOUND.
Of British Discrimination Against Amer
ican Ttade.
Washington, D. C, Sept. 16. Senator
Chamberlain, author of the amendment
to the revenue bill for the exclusion of
halibut and salmon from North Pacific
regions, except under certain conditions,
said yesterday he is getting new' evi
dences of the extent of the British dis
crimination against American trade.
committee to assist in the Hughes' cam
paign. The committee, it was said, will
work with the various state committees
and also with the woman's committtee
of the Hughes alliance.
MONTPELIER
trongly held by the enemy and a small I "hen tha lobby committee meets ait-
wood were captured after a quick fieht. rr w,e lu '"K"' l"c --hk.'m
"Northeast of Berny three trenches
were successfully conquered by us. We
took 200 prisoners and 10 machine guns.
The latest advices say that the ground
won this afternoon is covered with Ger
man dead.
"On the remainder of the front the day
was relatively calm except in the sectors
of Thiaumont, Fleury and Vaux-Chap-itre,
where the artillery duel continues
sharply.
Aviation Our aviators on the Somme
front distinguished themselves, particu
larly in numerous combats above the en-
v's lines. Lieut. Guvenenier fellM
of the charges that representatives of
foreign countries influenced the I nited
Statea government against the Chamber
lain and Phelan amendments. Senator
Chamberlain will make a statement and
present exhibits. People from all sec
tions of the United States who feel they
have been injured by British attitude
are writing to Senators Chamberlain,
Jones and others, giving information as
F. W. and J. A. Dakin Co. Files Articles
of Association.
The F. W. and J. A. Dakin Co., Inc..
filed articles of association to-day with
the secretary of state, having capital
t-tock of $100,000, with 1.000 shares.
The incorporators of the concern, which
is organized to do a contracting busi
ntss, are F. W. and John A. Pakin and
B. C. Howard, all of Shcrbrooke, V. Q.
The Pakins are members of the firm of
Pakin-Looniis, Ltd., which is construct
ing the new Playhouse on State street.
hief Justice Loveland Munson of the
supreme court left this forenoon for his
home in Manchester, having been in the
city since Wednesday in conference at
the State House with the associate jus
tices. The October term of court opens
the firit luesday next month, Oct, 3.
President E. C. Smith of the Central
Vermont road, President Chamberlin of
the (irand Trunk system, and other offi
cials of the two railway companies ar-
ito their experience with the British gov
ernment.
Senator Chamberlain charged that Sir
It i. it. ! i .. . j . i - i
JlWpn I ('IT VI l ttlUillA III M MHJI-
1 y's lines. Lieut, (iuyenemer fellM i ineton to oppose nis amendments and t tie lived in tne city this forenoon on a spe
f!is 16th. Lieut. Nunireser his 12th. I Phlan amendment which empowered tiie cial train from New London, Conn., bav-
I.ieut. Heurtaiix bis sixth and Lieut. Ie (president to deny the use of mails to j ing left St. Albans the first of the week
Rothefort his sixth aircra't. while in a j foreign countries which discriminate ; on a tour of inspection. Several of the
recent fight it is confirmed that Lieut. 'against the United States. I party this niomins visited B. F. Fifield
Pe I'ullin won his sixth victory. Two' It is reported in Washington that; of State street, former attorney for the
other Orman machines were attacked at Oreat Britain during consideration of the! Central Vermont.
cloe range and com-eIleJ to descend se-(revenue bill and retaliatory amendments! Herbert N. Shore of Boston, who has
riouslv damaged.
"On te Verdun front one enemy ma
chine was felled north of Poiiaumont.
In the Voges our anti aircraft artillery
brought one Fokker down near Luzs.
"Oar bombing squadron sJo were very; trie dispute.
threatened to nullify the agreement of i boon visiting in the citv for a week as
November 1(5. 1012, adopting ru!.- an.: j the gu.t of Pr. K. C. Barrett of Barr-
methods of pncedure in eonn.v-ti. ii uit'i j !r e'. b it this forenoon for his home,
the north Atlantic coast i-lier .. Tl. sj Mi.- I.oiuo- Kernadini -returned this
had to do with the Newfoundiau I ti?u- for noon from Wakcfnld, Ma.-., her.'
Miss Agnes Burke is employed as a
stenographer in the Central Vermont
freight office.
Mx. and Mrs. Clement Bartlett of
Plainfield were among the business visit
lors in the city voterda
I Atr nnd fr Tlcnn lilodffett. who were
recently married in Montgomery, have re
turned to Barre to reaid".
Miss Frances Winslow has returned to
her home in Essex Junction, after visit
ing relatives in Maple Grove.
Sprague Prennan left this morning for
Barton, where he will assume the duties
of principal of Barton high school next
week.
Carroll's orchestra returned this morn
ing from Woods ville, N. IL, where they
played at a ball given by the Bachelor
Girls' club of Woodsville last evening.
The V. C. T. U. of the Baptist church
presented their minstrels at the Baptist
church parlors in Websterville last even
ing before a large and appreciative audi
ence. Mrs. Harry Johnson and son, Harold,
have returned to their home on Richard
son street after making an extended so- j
journ with friends in different parts of
Maine.
Miss Kmma Commuskev of Hartford
Conn., arrived in the citv last night and
will visit while here at the home of her
sisters, Mrs. A. C. Williams and Mrs. J.
H. Nelson.
Miss Isabelle Nelson, who has been
visiting friends and relatives in Boston
and Quincy, Mass., during the past two
weeks, returned to her home on Franklin
street last night.
Hurley Edwards and Harley Cruick
shank of Websterville were visitors in
the city this morning while on their way
to Chioopoe Falls, Mass., where they ex
pect to be employed.
Henry Gill of Lanosboro, who wss a
guest of Charles H. Northrop of the Mer
chant street extension to-day, will leave
this afternoon for Burlington to pass the
week-end with friends.
Miss Agnes M. Safford, a teacher at
Goddard seminary, arrived in the city
last night from her home in Portland,
Me., where she has been staying since
the close of the spring term last June.
Everett Swasey, who has been visiting
at the home of his parents, Mr. and Mrs.
C. P. Swasy of Waterbury, for several
days, visited friends in the city yester
dav. Mr. Swasey will return to his home
in Montreal, P. Q., within a few davs
Paul P. Barnard, who has been visiting
his uncle, P. V. Stone, through the sum
mer vacation, left this morning for King
ston, R. I., where he will resume his
studies at the Rhode Island State college
next week.
T. H. (lolden and F. P. Pueharme ar
rived in the city last evening from Mil
ford, Mass., where they have been em
ployed as stonecutters during the past
few months. They will commence work
in a North Barre stoneshed next Monday
niorning.
The Misses Katheryne Thelps and
Mary Tomasi, who have been encamped
at the Messer cottago at Lake Morey
during the past week, returned to the
city last night. The remaining members
of the party will return to-night, they
being Misses Hazel Lyon, Cora Roberts,
Madine Rogers and Annie Messer.
Malcolm Podge, who has been visiting
friends in Richmond for several days, ar
rived in the city last night and vtsited at
the home of his grandmother, Mrs. Laura
S. Podge of Seminary street. He left
this morning for his home in Flushing,
L. L, accompanied by bis little brother,
Francis, who has been visiting in the city
for several weeks.
The memliers of the Fpworth league
held an old-fashioned social at the Meth
odist church parlors last eveniiig. when
many of the young people assembled to
enjoy a candy pull. A delightful enter
tainment was in progress throughout the
evening with nearly all the young folks
present participating in singing obi
songs. After the program of singing was
New York, Sept. 16. Several trade
unions voted to-day to determine their
response to the call for a sympathetic
strike to back up the street car employes
By Monday, labor leaders expect to learn
the sentiment of longshoremen, team
sters, tidewater boatmen, coal bargemen
and stationary engineers and firemen, to
whom the carmen particularly addressed
their appeal. By Monday, they assert
70,000 men will be called out to protect
the very life of union labor in New iork
One man was killed and 64 persons have
leen injured in accidents on the elevated
and surface car lines within the past 24
hours.
Several persons were injured, none of
them seriously, in two traction accidents
last night. The most serious was
rear-end collision between two trains on
the Third avenue elevated line. Passen
gers were hurled from their seats, and
many suffered severe injuries. Pown
town traffic was held up more than an
hour as a result of the accident.
Two trolley cars were in collision in
the Bronx, and tour persons, one a pa
trolman on strike duty, were injured. It
is said the cars were being operated by
strikebreakers.
The public service commission brought
its inquiry into the strike to a close yes
terday. A statement issued with regard
to the situation on the Third Avenue
Railway company's lines said there was
no evidence of bad faith on the part of
the company or any indication that it
was the company s intention to violate
the agreement of Aug. 7, which ended the
former surface car strike.
The strike should be called off at once
and the agreement of Aug. 7 should be
lived up to in letter and spirit, the
statement concluded.
FUNERAL OF AGED MAN.
Services for Joseph G. Mudgett Were
Held Friday Afternoon.
The funeral of Jofeph Grsnt Mudgett,
who passed away Wednesday forenoon in
his 91st year, was held at the home of
W. F. Bradford of Park street Friday
afternoon at 2:30 o'clock. Rev. W. J. M.
Beattie, rector of the Church of the Good
Shepherd, was the officiating clergyman
and the bearers were: W. F. Bradford,
C. W. Averill, C. W. Melcher and Gilbert
Small. The occasion called together a
number of the older residents of Barre
who were intimately acquainted with Mr
Mudgett in th days when he was active
f i ? - , ' rm
nere in Dusiness circles, mere were sev
eral fine floral tributes. Interment was
marie in the Mudgett family lot in Hope
cemetery beside the body of Mrs. Mud
gett, whose death occurred eight years
ago.
2,208 OF SCHOOL AGE.
Barre' Census Show Shrinkage From
That of 1913.
Figures gathered by special canvas
ser for the school census of 1016 have
been compiled 'at the office of the city
clerk ami are on record in early untie!
put ion of the printing of the annual city
report. Although the aggregate of rhil
dren of school age in Itarre is indicative
of a considerable shriiik.ipe from the to
tal of last year, the computation made
by the. clerk ami ht assistants does not
point- to any alarming decrease in the
birth rate nor is it an earnest of whole
sale removals from the city. The com
piler ascrilte the shrinkage to the statu
tory limitation on the age of children
who are permitted to attend the public
schools. In 1015 the law which says
that children under six years of age shall
not enroll made serious inroads on the
census in every ward and the same law
is held to account for the continued de
crease this year.
According to the latest census there
are 2.20S children Ixdw-een the ages of
ft and IS years in the city limits. This
footing represents a loss of 2.'I2 since the
1015 census, ;122 from the census of 1014,
3MS from the 1013 census and 415 from
1912. As a matter of fact there has been
perceptible decrease each vear since
1911 with the exception of 1014, hen
the enrollment was 16 larger than the
registration of the year previous.
Barre s 2.20S children are divided
among the following age classifications:
Between 6 and S years, 377; between 8
and 16 years, 1,518: between 16 and 1
years, 403. Girls, with a registration of
1.162, predominate, with the enrollment
of males reaching 1,1.16. This year tab
ulation was made of the children of 5
years of age in the city, the total being
191, bovs 96 and girls 05. Added to the,
enrollment of children letween 6 and l1.
the grand total would be 2.4S0, which is
nearly up to the average in years when
5-vear-old children were allowed to at
tend school.
COST GRAHAM
0NLY$28.18
The Republican Nominee for
Governor Files His Ex
pense Account
MONEY WAS SPENT
IN CORRESPONTNCE
He and F. L. bster of
S wanton F; to Com
ply wir''ne Law
VERMONT SCHOOL NOTES.
Varied Announcements By Commissioner
M. E. Hillegas.
The normal schools of Vermont, which
ill open Monday, Sept. 18, will have a
large attendance, according to informa
tion received by State ( Vnmiiss.r"icr M.
E. Hillegas. Each school " has increased
its teaching staff and the number of crit
ic teachers in the training class. At the
Johnson Normal school there is now a
critic teacher in cliarge of each room in
the training school.
The teachers training schools in Mont- :
pelier seminary, People's academy at
Morrisville, the l-.ssex Junction high
hool and the Randolph high school re
port classes with more than 14 students.
This entitles them to an assistant teach-
Although four days have elapsed since
the primary, only two candidates for
f-fate office have followed the provisions
of the statute and filed with the M-crc-tury
of state the list of expenses in
curred in waging the campaign. Iloracn
W. Graham, Republican nominee for go
ernor, and Fred L. Webster of Swanton,
Democratic nominee for attorney-general,
are the two who have tiled state
ments. Candidate (iraham expended tha
sum of $2S.1S, the entire amount beinjf
paiil for stationery and postage, and Mr.
Webster parted with .'Me in a suceseful
endeavor to secure the nomination of the
minority party.
The section of the primary law which
makes necessary the filing of a sworn
statement provides that it must be mado
within ten days after the primary elec
tion, the wording of the section having
bien changed at the recent special session
to make it more specific. The candidato
is supposed to include in his items all
amounts "paid or promised."
TALK OF THE TOWN
At the Sunday evening service In the
Presbyterian church Miss (JIadys McIJon-
ald will sing "Shepherd Pivine."
James M. Langley left to-day for a
wek-end visit with relatives in New
Hampshire before returning to Hanover
next week to resume his studies at Part
mouth college. Nelson Brown, who has
been at home here for the summer, will
return to Partmouth Monday
('apt. R. Ward, officer in charge of the
Salvation Army in Barre, is in personal
toucn witn ins i.anaaian or cnusn gov
eminent regarding wounded or lost sol
diers, also wives and mothers not get
ting their pay have the sympathy of
Capt. and Mrs. WRrd in this terrible
bloodshed, as they themselves have four
relatives in the trenches. To any person
desiring information In any part of the
British allies in the European war, Capt.
Ward gives his services free. You may
call at 40 South Main street or 'phone
264-3. R, Ward, captain.
About 40 young folks assembled at the
Bassett grove on the west hill Thursday
evening to hold a corn roast in honor of
Miss Agnes MoKenzie, who is visiting
friends in the city. After the party had
gathered the boughs for the brushheap,
an immense fire was soon in blaze, by
which the corn roasters were able to
roast their corn and marshmallows. Aft
er the corn and marshmallows were gone,
everyone participated in games that
passed the evening hours altogether too
quick for the merrymakers, the party
making the return to the city in the
early hours of the morning.
Residents of North Main street from
Cottage street to the Maple avenue in
tersection are humbly thankful for the
heavy rain of yesterday, inasmuch as it
alleviated conditions which those duly
clothed with authority failed to remove.
Accumulations of garbage along that sec
tion of the highway made the iiioghbor
hood notorious for it evil odor and pe-
lestrians and abutting property owners
Since the first of July nearly 200 Ver
mont teachers have been reeertifieated
under the new regulations. This has in
volved a large amount of correspondence
and investigation on the part of the com
missioner's office. The work is now near
ly completed. Very few life certificates
under the new plan will lie issued this
vear. One of the results of the new sys
tem of certification has been a large at
tendance at the various summer schools.
About one-third of the teachers of Ver
mont attended at least three weeks of
summer school. This is a record that
has not been approached by any other
state in the union. The attendance was
not limited to the institutions in Ver
mont. There were Vermont .teachers at
(ieorge Washington university, Washing
ton, Columbia university. University of!
New York, Simmons college. Harvard
university and Partmouth college.
According to the new regulation towns
will receive state aid according to the
kind of certificate held by the teachers in
their rural schools, $4 a week being al
lowed for the life certificate, $3 for the
qualification certificate and .2 for the
probationary certificate. The state will
give trained teachers rebates only to
towns which employ teachers holding one
of the new certificates.
completed, the partv gathered around the
table for a supper" that was served bv j a like w ere heartily disgusted w ith the in
the members of the league. A good time activity of the authorities. Conditions
was enjoyed by all.
I such as have obtained in the north end
Revised List of Junior High Schools.
The revised list of junior high schools
is as follows: Jeffersonville, Cabot. Plain
field, North Trov, Highgate Center, Es
sex Center, Burlington, Waitsfiold, South
Royalton, Hinesburg and Randolph Cen
ter.
The teachers' training classes have
been granted to Brigham academy, Bak-
ersfield, Wilmington, Swanton and South
Rovalton.
Norman Frost has been granted a
years leave ot absence trom nis unties
as superintendent of the Washington
west district for professional study at
Columbia university. William II. Par
row of Putney has been elected by the
state board to fill the vacancy.
Supt. John P. Wluttier of the Benning
ton central district has been granted two
months' leave of absence by the state
board for the purpose of working with
the extension department of the univer
sity, which is engaged in preparing ex
hibits of boys' and girls' club work to be
shown at the national dairy show men
tioned above. The temporary vacancy in
his district is to be filled by Mrs. Edward
Smith of Bennington.
Through the generosity of Mortimer
Proctor of Proctor the Vermont Forestry
association is offering three prizes to the
students in the high schools and acad
emies of the state for the best essays on
"Forestry in Vermont." Full details will
be furnished later.
The $100 voted to each superintendent
bv the board of education at its meeting
INSPECTED STATION REPAIRS.
Grand Trunk and Central Vermont Offi
cials Spent Short Time in Barre.
Grand Trunk and Central Vermont
railroad officialdom was represented
among the passengers on a special train
which arrived at the Barre station this
forenoon around 0 o'clock. Cue of the
main line locomotives and an accommo
dation coach made up the train. E. J.
Chamberlin of Montreal, president of thu
Grand Trunk, E. C. Smith of Nt. Albans,
president of the Central Vermont road,
J. E. Ralrymple of Montreal, vice-president
of the Grand Trunk, and S. E. Dew
ey, also of Montreal, traffic manager for
the Grand Trunk system, were aboard
the train, which is making a tour of in
spection over the Central Vermont di
visions. It was stated that the officials
were here merely for one of their semi
occasional visits. The report that they
came to Barre to conaider the protest of
the Barre Board of Trade, registered
sometime ago, over the failure of the
Central Vermont people to provide con
nections with the afternoon train leav
ing the capital at 2 o'clock, was not cor
roborated. None of the Board of Trade officials
were aware of the visit until after tha
officials had departed, although they have
been patiently awaiting action on the
protest for some time. At the station
the special train stopped long enough
to discharge its passengers and was
ready to back out of the yard after 'the
officials had given the station a brief
"once over." Newly painted walls and
ceiling in the etation lobbies aniT im
proved lighting facilities asked for by
the Board of Trade sometime since oamo
under the official scrutiny. Near 0:30
o'clock the special train left for points
south.
SUES TO RECOVER $S5.
Frank H. Nichols of Williamstown Plain
tiff Against G. M. Emersoa
In Washington county court yesterday
afternoon, the case of Frank H. Nichols
of WUliamstown vs. G. M. Emerson of
Barre was taken up, a jury composed of
the following being drawn: W. H. An
gcll, Woodbury; Charles Bullock, Marsh
iield; Alva Butler, Puxbury; George
Cooper, Barre City; Reuben H. Downer,
Waitsfiold; Milton Glinea, Berlin; Guy
M. Hale, Fast Mont pelier; N. H. Hill,
Fayston; J. P. Hutton. Cabot; Walter (".
Mann, Waitsfiold; V. L. Stone, Cabot.
The plaintiff seeks to recover the sum
of $$.", claiming that ho and the defend
ant entered into an agreement that thu
defendant should rent his farm and dis
pose of some of the stock, depositing tho
money in the plaintiff's name. The agree
ment," according to the plaintiff's allega
tions, was KUccessfully carried out, only
the defendant negloi-ted to deposit tho
money derived from the sale of slock.
The defendant was on the stand in his
own behalf this forenoon, and the caso
will probably be finished and go to tho
jury early this afternoon. Earle R. Da
vis represents the plaintiff and R. A.
Hoar the defendant.
PROBABLY JAST TOUR.
Barre Board of Trade and Ladies Going
to Northfield Sept. 20.
The Barre Board of Trade ar to makn
their sixth and probably last get-together
or better acquaintance automoMe trip
of Aug. 10 take the place of the "trav- ,of the 1016 season to Northfield Wednes-
eling account" of last year. For this I day evening. Sept. 2". Barre agrees to
$l(Hi, the superintendents need keep no ! have 2.V1 of her citizens, men and women,
vouchers nor render any accounts. In 'at the supper table and Northfield ex
addition to thi. the usual "olliee ex-jpects to have a still larger number of
pene-' account will le allowed at the end ! men and women from Northfield and thu
of the vear. For this an account must ' surrounding tow ns to sit at the supper
be rendered and voie hers presented. This table with her guet trom harre, an t at
With hi .Uent of ih nrwn uitnn i near Willov street durin? every month i ;,,i,i. ,.iv .,.), ,,Hie pvivik,., ,-n J ,..i -.vm tw r!e at the band concert.
for shooting ruffed grouse, woodcock and m tne summer exisira in tne section in
gray squirrels, there has been an appre
ciable strengthening in the demand for
hunting licenses at the office of the city
clerk. Many sportsmen are provided with
the hunting permits through the pur
chase of combination hunting and fishing
licepsos in the early summer; but those
dim ted from Monday until the rain came
yesterday.
Practice.
Patient But er the operation won't
be er serious, will it?
Young M- D. Only for me! I never
who prefer the woods to the brooks andjtritd it before. Boston Globe,
ponds are right in the market for single j
permits these davs. Yesterday marked "Father knows you're pring to marry
the opening of the season on partridges i sister. I heard him talking about it the
and gray s)iiirre, and while the foliage 'other day."
is too thick at this time for successful "But I didn't know it myself until
hunting, the fact that nearly 7- licenses 1 last night.'
lave been sold this w-k indicates tiiat
the visited frivnds during the week.
the hunters believe in refaredneas. Life.
lie legitimately charged to the state and ; witnessing the throwing on the screen by
should not contain items that should lie j the Barre Board of Trade of alout l.V
charged to the tow ns. views show ing Barre and her industry.
The state board has authorized the j Supper will be served in Armory ball at
commissioner to hold two institutes fori; oVhx-k. Carroll's or.-'ioMra of Barra
the instruction of the teachers' training ' will furni-h music during the sv.ppee
classes. The dates and places are to bv ! house and for dancing in Armory hall
announced later. j from 10 to 12 o'clock. The Barre band
A committee has been appointed to in- will give an op n r concert from 8:30
vetigate the purchaing of phonograph to 1 o'clock.
record. The-e records are to make a i Barre and Northfield join in extendinij
circuiaing library for iLMn'outiou i an imitation to eery person in Wash-
anwi.g the junior hio.h school-. j ington onnty and elsew nere t- atten I
The resignation of Walter II. Siple ait!n c-t together meeting at Nortl.fleM.
instructor of science and e priwi at j Pur. '. i-e - our supper tickets at once, as
th, she toll you too, did she!" the John Normal hool lias Uen accent- the al. of tickets is limited. I-irst come,
ed.
tint served.
