ft
I
CIRCULATION IS
OVER 4000 DAILY
!
FULL LEASED
WIRE DISPATCHES
THIRTY-NINTH
pi-:
NO. 195
SALEM, OREGON, SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 1916
PRICE TWO CENTS S?a raim
. i
v..
ALLIES O FIRST
THREE GERMAN UNES
Thiepval Alone of Strong Positions On Third Line Retained
by Germans-British Press Steadily Forward But Re
s' sistance' Grows More Stubborn-Serbs Have Bulgars
Retreating-Kaiser Wires of Victory Over Russians
and Rumanians .
By Ed L. Keen,
. (United Press Staff Correspondent)
London, Sept. 16. Allied soldiers have swung forward
on three great battle fronts in the last twenty-four hours,
but have suffered reverses in southeastern Rumania.
The British advanced their center to within less than
four miles of Bapaume before slackening their great of
fensive north of the Somme to permit the moving up of
heavy artillery. General Haig announced this afternoon
that the villages of Courcelette, Martinpuich and Flers
are now firmly in British hands and that 2,800 German
captives were taken in yesterday's fighting. The loss of
these three villages was officially admitted in Berlin, i
In Macedonia, the Bulgarian right wing is now in full
Twenty divisions of Anglo-French troops (about 400,
000) participated in yesterday's violent attack against
the German lines north of the Somme, the German war
office declared. ' v v
retreat toward the Serbo-Greek frontier, according to of
ficial dispatches from Salonika today. The Russians and
French cooperating with the Serbians are following up
Thursday's successes and have already driven the Bul
gars back more than twelve miles. An official report said
that troops of the three allied nations have recaptured the
important Greek town of Fiorina. The. British have re
sumed the offensive on the left wing, attacking villages
held by the Bulgars after crossing the Struma river un
der fire. , "
The Italians have resumed their great drive toward
Trieste and are reported to have broken through the Aus
trian line at several places. Ten thousand Austrians
have been killed, captured or
patch today.
The extent of the Teutonic
and Rumanians in southeastern Rumania is in doubt.
Sofia dispatches today asserted that the Russo-Rumanians
have abandoned the whole
are falling back rapidly toward the Danube to escape cap
ture. The kaiser telegraphed the kaiserine from im
perial headquarters in the east that Turks, Bulgars and
Germans have won a decisive victory over the Russo
Rumanians. Official dispatches from Bucharest admitted
a retirement but did not confirm the claim made at Sofia
of a general retreat on a seventy mile front.
London, Sept. 10. The British center fill night raids, entering many enemy
lias been thrust forward to a point 500 1 trenches nt several place,
ynids north of Fourcaux wood in the Fighting desperately to save them
battle raging north of the Somme, Gen-j selves from retreat on a mile wide front,
einl Haig reported to tho war office lo-'tbe Germans have been throwing battal
da v.
The whole of the villages of Cource
lette, Martinpuich and Flers are firmly
in British hnncjs. Five hundred more
prisoners have been captured, making a
total of 2,SOO Germans officially report
ed captured in the first 24 hours of the
renewed Somme offensive.
Four German field iruns were enntur-
ed south of the Ancre last niAt and !
two local counter attacks by the, Ger-j'een the roads leading down upon Ba
nians failed. Though the Germans re- paume.
eistcd desperately, the Teutouic com- Germans Fight Desperately,
mauders made no attempt to organize a When the last press dispatches were
great counter attack. received from British headquarters
TbBritish carried. out mauv success-1 Haig's men were rolling steadily down
I . t. . 1 . .1 ' i .. II V. . . '
if money talked von eouldn' even
hear yourself think in a 10-centv store.
. rNohuddy kin write as purty a letter as
th' feller who ia "sorry' b t can't be
with you."
wounded, said a Rome dis
victory over the Russians
district north of Dobric and
ion after battalion into action ngainsl
the storming British columns north of
the Somme in an effort to check Gen
eral Haig's advance.
The battle begun yesterday morning,
grew more furious toward night. By
the glare of illuminating bombs men
fought like demons with bayonets and
grenades in the -shell torn country be
j iiiv snipes icuuuig iu Dupuume, uui uer-
"l man resistance was growing more stub-
borus the Britmh advanced out or the
area wrecked by their artillery. At that
hour the villages of Courcelette, Mar
tinpuich and Flers were firmly in Bri
tish hands, British troops had swept
througli Fourenux wood and were
fightiug in the eastern fringes of Bou
leaux wood and the fall of Bomblea ap
peared imraineut. The German losses
are said to have been frightful, espe
cially in the Bouleaux wood fighting
where the German resistance wa-s most
desperate. In the first advance into the
center of the wood, General Haig's
men found heaps of German bodies.
The British gains of yesterday linked
up with the great French advance
earlier in the week completed the task
of smashing completely the entire first
three lines of German positions on prac
tically the whole Somme front under
attack. Only at Thiepval where mnrve-1
ously constructed German works have
delayed the British advance do the Ger
mans still cling to their third lines,
Thiepeval was outflanked by the Bri
tish who captured Courcellette yester
day afternoon and its capture in the
next advance by the British left wing
appears certain. '
. New of the British successes, coup
led with the allies' great gains in the
Balkans and the resumption of the Ital
inn drive on Trieste, has aroused the
(Continued on page nine.)
LELAND G. HENDRICKS
DROWNED LAST NIGHT
Went Swimming Yesterday
Evening, Clothing Found
in Bath House
BODY IS RECOVERED
v
The body of Lelnnd Itend-
ricks was found this afternoon '
at 3:15 o'clock just across the
river from the bath house on
the opposite shore, '
Leland G. Hendricks, managing editor
of the Salem Statesman, and son of Mr.
and Mrs.- K. J, Hendricks, disappeared
yesterday afternoon about 5:30 o'clock
while bathing at the Denison bath house
and is believed to have been drowned.
He was Inst seen by Errol Byrnes and
Oscar Gingrich about 5:30 oclock on
the floating platform dressed in his
bathing suit, nis long absence was
noted about 8 o'clock ana upon Inves
tigation, his clothes were found in one
of the dressing rooms at the bath house.
It had been Mr. Heud ricks' custom
for some time to take a swim before be
ginning his work in the eveuing and up
on leaving tne ottice in the afternoon
stated that he was going to take a
bath and also, had a data to keep. The
latter statement gave the vague hope
that he bad taken a canoe or launch up
or down the river, but this hope vanish
ed as the hours wore on and no encour
aging word was received.
Although an all night search was
made and parties were out dragging
the river, his body had not at a late
hour this afternoon been found.
The river close to tho bath house was
searched with grappling hooks and sev
eral boats searched up and down the
stream in the hope of 'finding him on
one of the islands or opposite shore.
This morning one of the harbor police
men of Portland and a professional
professional-)
grnp'pler arrived with liis grappling
hooks and began work at once in search
of the body. This afternoon the Deni
son bath house.' and tank were removed
in the hope of finding the body under
the floating platform. Divers have al
so been searching in the vicinity of the
boat house, but up to a late hour .this
afternoon the body had not been recov
ered.
Leland Hendricks was a bright young
newspaper man of much promise, a
graduate of the State university and
school of journalism, where ho was
very popular ad won many honors
from his fellow students. His death has
cast a gloom over a large circle o'f
friends and acauuintancos.
BLACKENED HULL IS
ALL LEFT OF CONGRESS
Will Be Towed to Seatttle-
Passengers Reached
There Today
Marshfiehl, Ore., Sept. 10. Captain
Cousins and his officers today went
aboard the shell of the burned liner
Congress. The wreck was sufficiently
cool to permit a superficial inspection.
Cousins found nothing left of the lux
urious floating hotel but a blackened
steel hulk, filled with twisted debris.
Funnels and masts still stood. The boil
ers and engines are believed ruined.
It is expected that the harbor tug
Oneonta will arrive from Portland dur
ing the day to take the. Congress in
tow for Seattle.
If the sea is calm the trip may be
safely made. At present the -skeleton
of the liner rides high out of water
with a sharp list, caused by steel wreck
age slipping to one side. .
Human Pulmotor Saved Life.
Portland, Ore., Sept. 10. Passengers
from the burned liner Congress, travel
ing to Seattle bv special train, are due
to arrive there before noon today. The
special passed through Portland at 3:40
a. m.
Among those aboard was F. Tyson, of
Seattle, an assistant steward, who was
saved from death by J. K. Johnson,
chief steward of the dredge Michie.
Tyson was carried aboard the Michie
unconscious.
"He cannot be saved unless we have
a pulmotor," said a surgeon. "His
lungs are choked with poisonous
fumes."
"Let me try." said Johnson. He
then bent over Tyson, placed his mouth
over that of the senseless man and
drew the poison into his own lungs.
Johnson kept at this until he stagger
ed to his feet dizzy and sick, reeling
back into the arms of watchers. Doc
tors said he saved Tyson's life. The
latter regained consciousness several
hours later.
The trouble with being an easy
going, good-natured cuss is that peo
pie get the idea that they ran use yon
for a door mat.
IS
AIM ABLE
TO
Commissioners Reach Vital
Point In Their Joint
Negotiations MEXICO MUST DO WORK
NOW DONE BY PERSHING
Mexicans Torn to Small Bank
ers For Loan Celebrating
the Day
"By Carl D. Groat. .
(United Press ta'ff correspondent.)
New London, Conn., Sept. Iff. American-Mexican
negotiations reached a
delicate point today. Whether Cumin
za in w'illing; and more importantly,
able to patrol the border is a vital ques
tion upon negotiations are now turn
ing. -
As far as surface indications go, the
first chief probably will take over the
duties which hafe devolved upon Gen
eral Pershing's Column. But the fact
that his representatives have not com
mitted themselves to such a scheme
make negotiations -at this stage ex
tremely important and delicate.
As matters now stand the American
commissioners want Carranza to do
most of the patrolling through a, Burt
of Mexican police.
ThiB varies from the original proposi
tion in that what the Mexicans theu
proposed, called for a joint internation
al police. Now, the Americans want
Carranza to establish a strong force.
Today in the absence of the Mexican
commissioners thr.merican. conferees
luuicaten tueir neiiet Hint- mere .is no
hitch in sight.
The Mexicans have despaired of get
ting a loan from Wall street interests
rsud have decided" to turn to the .small
bankers for their loan.
Mexican Independence Day.
Juarez, Mexico, via El Paso, Texas,
Sept. lit. Throughout Mexico the na
tional independence day is being ob
served today with historical ceremon
ies. Last uight at 11 o'clock the cele
bration began in this city with the ring
ing of bells in commemoration of the
ringing of the liberty bell by the Priest
Patriot Hidalgo iu. the village of Do
lores, Guanajuato, in 1810. Close watch
was kept on all gatherings by officials
of the de facto government, as Hide
pendenco da via a favorite time for
demonstrations against the govern
ment.
Patriotic addresses were mode by the
mayor and other officials in the plus!
after which fireworks were set off and
the people shouted "Viva Mexico, viva
lliuulizo.
Todav there were more addresses.
singing of natioutil airs by the school
children and parades. The city was
decorated with the national colors.
BILLINGS' TRIAL
JAKES REST TODAY
Both Sides Confident Wo
man's Testimony Is So Far
Most Damaging
San Francisco, Sept. 10. Monday
will bring the climax in the trial of
Warren k. Billings, charged with mur
der in connection with the prepared
ness parade bomb plot.
Today being a court holiday botn
sides were preparing for a final clash,
Counsel for me defense today express
ed confidence of victory.
Attorney MciNutt said todav he
might put only a few of the 100 wit
nesses he had been ready to produce on
the stand, "sa there is little evidence
we will have to contradict.
"If the state continues to bring wit
nesses to show Billings was around 721
Market street in the vicinity of i
o'clock they will establish a good alibi
for him, " said .MeiNutt. Kelative to
witnesses being produced who will say
tiiev saw Billings plant the suitcase,
we will try to prove that crowd condi
tions made this all but impossible."
The prosecution, on the other hand,
is auite satisfied with the evidence
and is hinting at new surprises on Mon
day.
Was Seen on tne Bof
San Francisco, Sept. 10. The stnte
todav has reached the point in the trial
of Warren K. Billings on charge of
complicity in the preparedness parade
dynamiting that it Is producing wit
nesses in an effort actually to connect
Billings witn the crime, and District
GUARD
BORDER
III
QUESTION
(Continued on P Per en.)
NEW YORK STRIKE
MAY CALL 75,000
FROM ALL TRADES
Leaders Say If This Does Not
Lead to Some Kind of
Settlement
700,000 WORKERS WILL
STRIKE FROM SYMPATHY
20,000 Longshoremen and
25,000 Machinists To Be
First to Quit
New York, Sept. 10. A sympathetic
strike which union leaders declare will
result in 75.000 workers leaving their
jobs in support of the striking employes
of the traction companies became effec
tive iu New York before noon today.
Several o'f the unions affected de
lated balloting until late today or to
morrow but union leaders declared they
were certain to joiil those already 'on
sympathetic strike.
Twenty thousand longshoremen nnd
boatmen .were expected to be the first
workers to respond to the strike call.
Labor leaders declare that these men
will be followed by 25,000 machinists,
who will strike before night.
By the end of next week, unless there
is a change iu the traction strike situa
tion, union men predict thousands of
others will be out. They will include
men employed in nil industries con
tributing to the production of power for
the transportation lines und may spread
to include painters, carpenters aud sim
ilnr workmen, it is declared.
Are Fighting Morgan.
New Yorwk, Sept. 10. Driving
against 'the Morgnn Interests" which
they charge are opening a general fight
against unionism in the present transit
strike, the Central Federated Union of
New York today submitted to Individual
unions, recommendations for a sympa
thetic strike and for a boycott of sub
way, elevated and surface cars.
The resolution adopted recommends
"as a preliminary to the general
strike," that longshoremen, boatmen,
teamsters, engineers, firemen and plum
bers, whose lubor is keeping the trac-
(Continued on Page Seven.)
Stocks Climbing Higher
'With Railroads Rivaling
" Wa r Brides 9 9 as Favo rites
New York, Sept. 10. Tho New 'York
Evening Sim finniiciiil review today
jays:
Notwithstanding a heavy volume of
realizing liquidation in today's brief
session, tho movement of prices in the
best part of two hours of trading wus
iu the direction of higher levels, reac
tions as ft rule being small and in no
way suggesting a movement on the pnrt
of substantial holders to turn aver their
accounts in the expectation of the devel
opment of sustiiined cheaper quotations.
To a great extent speculative interest
centered upon the railroad shares, ninny
o'f which were brought in volume, es
pecially Union Pacific, St. Paul, Read
ing, New York Cent nil and Erie.
Union Pacific sold nt a new high rec-
ord for the year, the movement accom
nnnviiiir reports of buvine bv lnruo on
erut'ora who believod the time rine for
a wider operation not only in this par-
ticular issue but in oil departments of
the railroad list
In certain parts of the market evi
dence of bear pressure was presented,
as for instniire in some of the coppers
and war shares which had been" strong
features in preceding duys of tho week,
while there wa heavy selling also in
United States Htcel, the demand for
which, however, not only prevented any
important reaction from its early- rec
ord but subsequently carried it to a
new high at 108. Crucible was strong
also. Among the motors Maxwell was
the feature, while in specialties Western
Union distinguished itself by moving
to a price better than any ever before
reported, above 101.
Railroad Stock Boom.
New York, Sept. 10. Railroad shares
replaced steel stocks and "war brides"
as leaders in the marKct boom wnen
the stock exchange opened today. The
strength In rails which came suddenly
at the close of yesterday's trading was
continued with gams ranging up 1 1-2
in Great Northern preferred.
Krie advanced l ( nnadian J'nciric
7-R. Lehigh Valley 1-2, Southern l'a
cific and Road in if 3-8, Union Pacific
1 and New York Central and St. Paul
1-2.
The initial advances were soon in
creased when a wave of railroad buying
struck the market. Union Pacific shot
to a new high at 147 3 4, up 1-4.
MRSJOI, EAp
He Cancels Engagements and
Will Accompany Body to
Columbia, S. C.
By Robert J. Bender.
(United Press staff correspondent.)
Asbury Fork, N. J., Sept. 10. Presi
dent Wilson today cancelled his en
gagement to address the National Life
Insurance Underwriters at St. Louis,
September 20, following receipt of nows
of the death of his sister, Mrs. Annie
Howe, at New Loudon. His engage
ments for Monday and Tuesday of next
week were also cancelled. The president
asked Secretary of War Baker to Bpeak
for him at St. Louis.
The engagement for the president to
speak at Baltimore on September 24
still stands. : 't
The President and Mrs. Wilson will
probably meet Miss Margaret Wilson,
Joseph Wilson, the president ' broth
er, and other members of the family
who will leave for New London with
tho body of Mrs. Howe at Trenton, N. J.
From tiero they will accompany the
body to Columbia, S. C, where Mrs.
Howe will be buried beside the body of
her husband.
End Came This Morning.
New London, Conn., Sept. 10. Mrs.
Annie E. Howe, only sister of President
Wilson, died here at 6:40 a. ni. today.
She was 00 years old last Friday.
Joseph Wilson, brother of the presi
dent, and Mrs. Howe's sons, Wilson and
George, her daughter, Mrs. Cothrau and
'Mi8 Alnrgaret Wilson were nt the bed
side when the end came. Mrs. Howe
died peacefully.
President Wilson was immediately no
tified. Information here soon after Mrs.
Howe's death was that the president
will not come to New London. The
body will be sent to South Carolina for
burial, however, and the president and
Mrs. Wilson will accompany the funeral
party.
Since the president was here oarly
this week, Mrs. Howe has been constant
ly under the iuflueuce of opiates. She
had few lucid intervals. Death was due
to peritonitis' and attendant compliea
tinnu. Dnrinor the Inst few 1hvs h Chris-
tian Science woman practitioner was
with Mrs. Howe often, but is under
stood to have visited her as a friend
and not professionally.
.Mrs. Hewe was born in Virginia and
like her brother, was educated there.
She has two sons, Wilson Howe, of Pri
mos, a uburb of Swart hmore. Pa., con
nected with the Pennsylvania railroad,
and Dr. George Howe, a professor at
'the University of North Carolina, and
a daughter, Mrs. Perin Cot li ran, of lia
leigh, N. C.
Grent Northern preferred, advanced
two points to 120 1 'J and New York
Central sold at Kill, high prices for the
present movement, i lie buying in rtut
wus lurgely on wire orders from outside
points, brokers reported and for the
first time in weeks rails became the
center of trading.
Steel sold at 10", its record price.
Today was the biggest Suturdny ses
sion since April, 1IM5. Sales for the
two hours were 7H4.O0O shares. The
close was steudy.
The closinir of the market did not end
the day for clerks and other employes
of the brokerage firms today. It was
estimated it would be near midnight be
fore the business of the week was clean
ed up and the record week 'finally
closed. After Thursday's 1,720.000 share
day clerks worked until 8 o'clock the
following morning -before
the days
work was completed. .
Approximately 7,.100,000
shares
changed hands on the tock exrhnnge
this week. Nearly a million shares of
United Stutcs Steol common, wore sold.
Union' i'acifie set a new high record
at US ,3 8, in a whirl of trading in the
railroad stocks. The record was five
points above yesterday's low figure,
United States Steel common sold at
10S, up 1 3-H, a new record, while the
utreet was filled with reports of big
railroad equipment and sheet steel or
ders being booked. Western Union
passed its 1004 record, sellina . at
101 :t-4.
A veritable battle of the bulls and
bears was iu progress today. Profes
sional traders, becoming cautious aft
er a rise of such duration as the present,
were inclined to halt or even play the
bear side of the market. A flood of
orders "from the provinces" is said to
be the factor that made rails Jump lor-
ward today and Inter led to advances
elsewhere.
More than 450,000 shares wee tradjd
in in the opening hour today.
At 8 St. Paul was up four quarter
in 24 hours. Erie sold above 40 'for
the first time in mauv months and Bui
timore & Ohio and New York Central
were strong.
Weekly Bank Statement.
New York, Sept. . 10. The weekly
(Continued on page nine.)
BRITISH EMBARGO
iARRQUSES MUCH
BITTER FEELING
Assumes Right to Control
Trade Between Neutral .
Countries '
PRESIDENT IS URGED TO
USE POWERS GIVEN HEI
England Forbids Importation
of 100 Articles by
Scandinavians
Washington, Sept. 16. The British,
blockade has again become a matter of
first diplomatic importance in the Uni
ted States Btate department.
New orders by the British govern
ment which, so far as considered hem.
are viewed as encroachments on the
rights of neutrals, threaten to fan lnt
a live issue the smouldering dissatis
faction this country has felt over the
whole blockade question. . One effect
of the new orders, it is aiorreed. will be
a more insistent demand that this gov
ernment maice use or the retaliatory
powers voted by the recent congress.'
ine action or ureat Britain in plac
ing' an importation embargo until Oc
tober 1, on more than 100 new articles
to the Scandinavian countries and the
Netherlands from all countries, includ
ing tho United States, is arousing most
resentment. Even holders of unexpired
licenses to export the articles listed in
tho new embargo have been directed
to communicate with the war trade de
partment if the British foreign office
before mnking further shipments. The
nllies claim the countries embargoed
already have received a supply of the
excluded articles exceeding the normal
domestic demand.
Since eongrusa empowered the presi
dent with retaliatory -powers- through
the shipping and revenue bills, the pres
sure upon the state department toback
up its contentions made to the allies in
its notes on the blockade, the mails and
the blacklist has greatly- increased.
Exporters and importers whoso busi
ness has been damaged both with South
America and Europe in the trade re
strictions of the allies have become
moro impatient for action than ever,
now that they see a chance to use sim
ilar methods against their alleged op
pressors. Tho state department ia also concern
ed by tho joint action of the allies in
protesting to Sweden against her ac
tion in distinguishing between com
merce and naval submarines, it was
learned. This stand is identical with
that taken by the department, both
when the Dcutschland cleared from Bal
timore nnd to a sub-memorandum to
the allied embassies.
That the note to Swedon is a strong
one, has created an unfavorable impres
sion among officials here in view of the
confident belief in tho justice of the
American position.
County Will Pay in
Nine High Schools
The county will pay tho tuition of
non-resident students in nine higil
schools of the county this year.
This statement was made by Coun
ty Superintendent of Schools Smith,
this morning, and will set at rest a
(nod many minds which, owing to var
ious discussions and numerous rumors,
have not been fully satisfied on the
question.
The high schools in which the tuition
of non resident puupils will be paid by
the county arc Snleiit, Woodburn, Sil
verton, Aurora, Hubbard, Turner, Jef
ferson, Stayton and ftcotts Mills.
sjc j(c )(c jc )c )jc )Jc sc 3c sjc sjc st sjc 3C
.
BETTING ON ELECTION He
New York, Sept. 10 More ac
tivity in presidential betting is
reported in Wall street today.
The largest bet was recorded
today when a stock exchange
firm placed a wager of $10,000
against 15,000 that Hughes will
be elected.
'
THE WEATHER
Oregon: To
day fair, winds
mostly northeasterly.
I I'M S0NE)A
