'FINANCIAL EDITION
STR47
ithntt
NIGHT
EXTRA
lEuentng
NIGHT
EXTRA
6
vol. in. NO. Gl
rnilVDKLPKlA, TJIUUSDAY, NOVJ-M-IEL. U3, 1016
ComtotiT, 101(1, at tm Potto I.tt?.fCorrtr.
PRIOJ0 ONIS OJ-Ntf
-. r
CZAR LENDS ARMY
'TO SAVERUMANIA
Russian Re-enforcements
May Extricate Troops
Trapped at Orsova
GUNS ROAR ON EAST LINE
Bucharest Breaks Silence by An
nouncing Loss of
Crniovn
nKIU-lN. Nov. -J.
IlussUn re-enforcements have Just reached
the Itumsnlan theater of war to help the
Bumanlan attempt to stem the. Auslro
Oerman conquest of the kingdom. News
ot the arrlvnl of these new troops was con
tained In a War orflce stntcment todny.
Included In the booty captured by the
Austro-CJermnns at Craiova were 300 rail
road cars. Artillery firing Is reported from
Dobrudja.
The retreat of "the numanlan garrison at
Orsova, estimated nt an nrmy corpglO.000)
In strength, has been cut off by the victo
rious Auatro-Oerman army of General von
Falkonhayn.
Dispatches from the numanlan front to
day Indicated that the capture of Orsova
and Us numanlan garrison would be the
next big victory announced In that theater
of war.
Clearing weather Is giving rlso to more
Intense artillery activity on the eastern
front. Tho War Odlco announcement said
that the, big gurra wore In action all tho way
from tho Baltic to the bend of the Carpath
ians. Russian patrols were repulsed,
Entente troops operating east of Ochrlda
Lake have been defeated by the Dulgar-
r3rmnn forces find nut tn fltffht. nrnnrtllntr
to the olTlclat statement on Macedonian op-v
tratlons. Strong attacks by the Allied
troops east of Paralevo were repulsed.
SOFIA, Nov. 2J. The destruction of a
bridge near Corabla by the Rumanians Is
reported In the following ofllclal statement
from tho "War Office today:
Artillery and Infantry firing occurred
at some points along the Danube. The
Rumanians sank bargea and destroyed
tho bridge near Corabla. They set fire
to stores of ammunition at that place.
In Dobrudja listless artillery fighting
recurred with some advanced-guard en
gagements on our right wing. The
situation on the Black Sea coast Is un
changed. The foregoing statement Indicates that
the numanlan forces In the southwestern
part ot Rumania have, begun to retire. The
trldgo mentioned was evidently a tem
porary pontoon structure Crabla Is on the
.Danube,; fifty miles southeast of Craiova.
BUCHAREST, Nov. 23.
"We retired westword from Craiova," to
dajj's official Rumanian Wur'Offlce, state
ment nnnounced.
Retirement from points in the Jlul Val
ley to old positions "was also slated. In
the Alt Valley, the statement declared, Ru
manian troops were 'maintaining their posi
tions. HOPE OP RUMANIAN ARMY'S
ESCAPE SEEN BY LONDON IN
OFEICIAL BUCHAREST REPORT
LONDON. Nov. 23.
The Rumanian official statement, Issued
today after two days' silence at Bucharest
In the face of sweeping German claims of
"bottling up" of tho Rumanian army,
served to Increase the hope hero that tho
forces ot the Balkan kingdom In tho Jlul
Valley, at least, had ducked from under
the encircling arm of General von Falken
hnyn'a troops.
The Rumanian statement did not concede
loss to the Germans ot Craiova, but It did
snnounce a retirement westward from the
Wallachlan city. Of more Interest here was
the statement that the Rumanian forces
had withdrawn from the Jlul Valley to
"old positions." The Jlul Valley forces were
smong those nt which von Folkenhayn's
encircling sweep -was most directly aimed,
If they have escaped, as indicated In the
Rumanian statement, they may be able to
estate a sufficiently strong diversion to re
lieve the viselike pressure ot the Teutonic
crusher on other numanlan forces around
Orsoya, A stiffening ot the Rumanian re
sistance was also seen in the statement's
report that the lines In tl.e Alt Valley had
been maintained,
The retirement westward from Craiova
mentioned In the statement would appear
to mean that these forces are swinging
to the aid of the Orsova defenders. -
.ANGLO-FRENCH ASSAULTS
NEAR BAPAUME BROKEN,
BERLIN'S REPORT STATES
t
. BWttrx, Nov. 2.
New Anglo-French assaults west and
south of Bapaume have failed. the German
rar Office, reported today. Fighting took
Place n storms and upon a battlefield deep
with mud. Thera -was considerable artil
lery activity during the night,
LONDON, Nov. 2 J,
British positions on (he Somme front
were shelled nil night by the Germans, the
war Offlce reported today. The British
Unci both north, and south of the Ancro
River and In the eector of Hebuterne were
bombarded. v
THE WEATHER
FORECAST
For Philadelphia and vicinity Prob
ably rain tonight, find Friday, followed
by clearing and colder Friday afternoon
und night; strong totith to west wind.
IJ-NGTII OF D.lV
C.4S a m (Moot rlaea 6:00 a m.
JS p.m.lMooQ aoulba. 10:08 a so,
Sua rUes
Sua acta
DKLAYVAHK BIVEH TII CJIAXJ13
CHESTNUT BTKBKT
wat A 41 m lljiw watar 7:31 n.m
Lou
BUI
a water llttim I
TRMFEBATUMS AT KACH HOCB
it lei ill MHKTTET ill Mrl
BORING NEW SUBWAY THROUGH WALL'
r2'- -nw awuwwwuii uuw.')iitwCT'i rrwwiwjliiii'ia(MLUiwi'u;w'wwiw'i' M!iroxMtBlaji
ESS;3C11X
sa -
A little thing like n 12-foot thick concrete wall and n two-trnck aubwny in constant use is not permitted to in
terfere with tho construction of tho new Broad street subway. The pliotofjraph shows two girders nlrcmly in
place nnd the borings for two more through tho wnll of the present Mnrkct street tube. The workmen have cut
through from the south until the aubwny tracks on tho other side may bo seen through tho hole.
WOOD ATTACKED
BY HOME LIFE CO.
Pension Mutual Head Fig
ures in Answer to Suit
in Delaware
DENIAL OF FRAUD CHARGE
Lyndon D Wood nnd his Consolidated
.Investment Company, of this city, were at
tacked In the courts ot Delaware this after
non when an answer was filed to a bill In
equity, which wob made a matter of record
last Tuesday, and which charged the oftl-cenranddlroetora-of
the Homo Llfo.Insur
nnco Company nnd tho Homo Protective
Company with fraud.
Mr, Wood is the president of tho Pension
Mutual Life Insurnnco Company, of Pitts
burgh, which Insurance Commissioner
O'Neill, of this State, wnnts to Investigate
and for which he has nsked tho Dauphin
County Courts to appoint a recolvcr. He
Is also the dominant figuro In the Consoli
dated Investment Company, although he
holds no Office In it. -
Tho paper filed this 'afternoon In Wllmln
ton was an answer to Tuesday's complaint
by tho plaintiffs who nro six stockholders
In the defendant companies. '
Tho six stockholders nro ThomaB Kings
ton, Julia It. Mock, Warren Geiger, John
W. Doan, Mary F. Lynch and John C.
Mnglnnls.
"TO WIinCK COMPANY"
In the answer Moglnnls is virtually ac
cused of being a tool engaged by Mr. Wood
to wreck tho company.
Tho answer was filed for the defendants
this afternoon by Charles F. Curley, a
Wilmington attorney, who, with City
Solicitor John P. Connelly, of this city, rep
resents them.
There la contained in the bill among
many denials and averments the following:
"The defendants aver that tho present
bill represents the third effort of certain
Continued on Page Fire, Column Two
PROFIT SHARING BY
CONSOLIDATED GAS
Employes at $8000 n Year or
Less to Get "Seven 'Per
Cent Increase
17,000 WILL. BENEFIT
NEW YORK, Nov. -J. The Consolidated
Gas Company will Inaugurate a profit
sharing plan for Its employes which will
be equivalent to an Increase of seven per
cent forithose whose salaries are (3000 a
year or less.
Tho plan, which becomes effective on De
cember 15 and applies to all employes who
have been with the company alx months on
November 30, benefits 17,000, It applies to
the main company and to all Its affiliated
gas and electrlo companies In. the Bronx.
Queens, Westchester. Yonkera and Northern
Westchester,' Including the New York Edi
son Company.
The company's statement follows:
"It is Increasingly, recognized that profit
sharing In some form promises more than
anything else to stimulate-the Interest of
employes In the success of tho undertakings
with which they are Identified. This rela
tlonshlp tends especially to promote In
dividual and collective effort and a better
spirit, of co-operation in the various de
partment of the complex organisations
now required by tho larger public utility
corporations to render satisfactory service.
Feeling on he P3'1 ot an raply an lm"
mediate personal interest by having a di
rect part In the results tendsperhapa more
in thla than in any other way to secure and
JnVlntatn that standard pf wUmc so
v
8re&ac
MORSE SHIPYARD
SOUGHT FOR CITY
Commerce Chamber Negoti
ating for Big "Flivver"
Vessel Plant
GOOD LOCATION OFFERED
"Flivver ships" may -bo built In Phila
delphia or elsewhere on the Delaware. It
was learned today that the Chnmber ot
Commerce had been negotiating wllh tho
United States steamship Company to buld
a big plant here since the company's' presi
dent, C. W. Morse, announced that plans'
were under way to start the construction
of vessels nlong lines now In Uso by the
Ford Motor Company In making automo
biles. A central plant with several assembly
plants Is being considered by the company,
nnd the efforts of tho Chnmber of Com
merce have been directed toward obtaining
one of the company's larger plants for Phil
adelphia. According to President Morse, the United
States Steamshp Company will first build
100 ships for Its own uso. All will bo of
tho same model. Tho Chamber of Com
merce Industrial Bureau has been In com
munication with the company, pointing out
Philadelphia's advantages for such a plant
Its proximity to the steel mills. Its num
ber of shipbuilders and skilled workmen,
Its position on the Delaware River. It Is
not unlikely, said F W. Lawrence, head
of the bureau, that these advantages will
successfully plead with the company.
William A. Sproul, head of tho Trans
portatlon Bureau of the Chamber. Bald that
In any event there Is little doubt that many
of the 100 ships to bo operated by the com
pany' will touch Philadelphia, and, further,
that the company may be Induced to estab
lish a line from this port.
Mr. Morso will build ocean-going "fliv
vers" of 6000 and 10.000 tons, They will
Contlnoed on I'aco Four, Column Hr
DEMOCRATS CONTROL
HOUSE, G.0. P. ADMITS
Republicans Will Be Able to
Muster Only 215 Votes, Re
vised Estimates Show
KvcnUo l.tJlcr Staff Corrtfpondtnt
WASHINGTON, Nov. 33. Control of
the House of Representatives by the Demo
crats was conceded today by several Re
publican Congressmen, following tho receipt
of advices here that Representatives Cole
man and TJarchfeld, of Pennsylvania, had
been defeated In their races for re-elcllon.
Indications that. Representative Royland, of
Pennsylvania, might be beaten also, and
that Representative Scully, of New Jersey,
a Democrat, who was at first believed
defeated now seems to be running ahead In
the count, add to the belief that the Demo
crats may control the,.ijeit House.
Representative Thomas S. Butler, of
Pennsylvania, said;
The Democrats will control the next
House. It Is better so. Control of the
House carries with It little authority and
serves only to divide the responsibility
when It Is of a. different political com
plexion, than the Administration"
Representative V. 11. Kelley, of Michigan,
another prominent member of the lower
house, conceded both branches of Congress
to the Democrats, In one district of his
Stats a recount Is being held to learn
whether Representative Samuel Hkes.
Democrat, really has not defeated his Re
publican opponent by forty votes. Even
though Beakes should fall, It Is believed the
Democrats will have enough votes to re
elect Champ Clark speaker.
With several dtstrjets admittedly still In
doubt. Democratic leaders estimate the next
House will be as follqiys;
Democrat. -17 i, RttBbUeana. 313; Pro
grasalve S. Socfatlut, Vf Independent, Ij
l'rotwlloolst, 1,
OP PRESENT TUBE
It .T
TRIO WHO FACED
SEA DEATH SAVED
Men Tossed on Helpless
Launch for Three Days
Brought Here
HAD GIVEN UP HOPE
Three men, who have been loaning for
three days nnd nights on tho Atlantic Ocean
without food and with only one gallon ot
woter between them. In a 30-foot launch.
The Margaret, wero brought Into IPhlla
delphla this noon by the Merchants and
Miners' Bteamshlp Dorchester, which plies
between Iloaton nnd this port.
Tho three men, Thomas J. Gunsoni Sr.,
of 117 Seventeenth street. College Point,
L. I.; his son. the owner of the boot,
Thomas J. Qunson, Jr., of the umo address,
and W. C. Robbln. of liny Shore. I- I.,
the pilot, wero only picked up after a bat
tle with waves of moro than an hour.
When the Dorchester spotted the little
boat with tho searchlight nt S 15 o'clock
last night, twenty-flvo miles southwest of
Klre Islnmi lightship nnd ninety miles enst
of IlarneR.it. tho men had one match left,
a half-pint of water nnd tho one oil light,
so weak that It flickered out Just oh tho
last man won taken, exhausted, over the
side of the Dorchester.
"We had about given up hope." said the
elder Gunson. "Wo had floated and tossed
In a sea that sometimes had waves thirty
feet high, from Sunday afternoon nt 4
o'clock, when the bnttrr.eH went bod. until
last night. Wo had had the flag floating
upside down all that time, and wo thought
wo would never reach land again. This
boat was bought for pleumire, but tho first
trip was not much of a pleasure,
"We do not know where sho Ih now. When
the uVchester picked us up, bIio tried to
tow the Margaret t but the hawser broke
and sho Is now either tossing on tho ocean
or has gone to the bottom. 1 do not know
which," said Ounson.
CIGARETTE ATTACKED
AT WELFARE MEETING
Trainmen's Representative Tells
Conference Smokers Suffer
, Most When Hurt
DRINKING FROWNED UPON
HARIUSUUna, Nov. 33 "It Is the duty
of railroad men to keep their minds on
their work If they want to, escape getting
hurt." declared Charles II. Spotta, repre
senting the Brotherhood of Railroad Tralif
men, before the Fourth Annual Welfare and
Ufflclency Conference hero today.
"Drinking Is frowned upon by our or
ganlxatlon." lie continued, "and cigarette
smoking and a Job on the railroad form a
ry bad combination. When 1 talk against
the cigarette men laugh at me. Some day
they will realize I'm giving them tho truth.
A cigarette smoker Injured on the railroad
surfers more than an abstainer. Jn fact, he
Is worse off than a 'rummy.' I know, for
l have seen both abstainers, and users of
cigarettes Injured and 1 have seen some
men die of cigarette 'snakes.' "
Spoils declared that the safety-first move
ment is growing steadily among railroad
men and that the care of the employe, la
the prime consideration among railroads
today. There are reasons for this. The
man with a family can't afford to be III be
cause he can,'t afford a doctor's bill. The
men with big families suffer most In this
respect. "Wo ought to havo community
doctors, each man paying an annual fee,"
he said.
'Talk about the Bible being man's best
friend," the speaker continued, "the book
of rules I the railroader's best friend. It
be abides by It he saves himself a lot of
trouble "
Mr. Spotts would have a poster under
each automobile speedometer reading.
"It Isn't safe for you whan th speed
omtttr Mints beyond twenty-five miles an
hour. It Ualt- safe tor tha, paeide jo' ytmtA
UU V y M fIJ,VtT
QUICK NEWS
POWERS OBJECT TO U. S. LOAN TO CHINA
NEW YOBK, Novt23. Press dispatches from I'olcln arty thru
British, Trench, Il'isslan and Jnjinnese hankors of the quintuple group
Itavc forwarded a letter to tho Chinese Minister of Finance In rvhlctt
it Is asserted that tho recent loan by American hankers was In viola
tion of thcneor-jtuils-atlon loan agreement of April 520, 1013. An ex
planation Is requested, It betnp charged that the loan wna political
and not Industrial.
TODAY'S RACING RESULTS
Phat Bowie race, 2-ycav-olds, selling, 0 furlongs Radiant
riowcr, 102, Lykc, ?10.-10, $7.G0, 95,20, won felucca, 101, Williams,
$17.70, 97.-10, second; Highway, 101, McAtee, ?M.20, thlul. Time,
1 M 2-0.
Second Bowie race, all ages, selling, 0 1-2 furlongs Kilts, 03,
uuinp, $10.70, 5G.0O, fja.-lO, won Between Us, 110, Butwell, !J4.aO,
$2.70, sccouuj Pontcfrmt, 100, Waul, !?4.00, third. Time, 1,21 1-0.
DUKSSni) TUKKKYS 10 TO i50 CKNTS A POUND
II VTI'li;i,l), rn., Nov. 23. At the nnntinl llntflcld turkey Halo today, which
Is tho bolometer nf tuiltcv prices In thli Fcctlon of tho State, tho prices for 1100
TlmtiltHKlvliiK hlrilH rnitKril from four to soven oontH a pound moro thnn last year
live vvvlght Tho first cholcu of hundred lots sold todny nvcrnged 30 cents u
pound live weight. The highest prlco wim 30.7 contB u pound. Tho lowest price
ns 21 cents n pound mill this wiis for u tail-end colce. Dcnlcrs uttondlnR tho wile
osscrt that retail price of ilrrssed lilrdM will rntiRo front A0 to 50 cents u pooml.
NKW YOltK MAYOK THHEATUNS COAI. DEAMMS
MOW YOltK. Nov. 23. .Mayor Mltchcl todny tlucntrned to estiiblhti a municipal
coal station for tho peoplo of New York unless coal dealers would lcfrnln from
chargim; iworblt.iiit t rlen for fuel. The tilin of tho' Mayor Is to protect tho poor
of the llnnt Side, vvheto co.il In usually bottnlit liy tho pall. IJy selling In nmall
ilunutitlcH lJnt Kldo (.enters Motnetimci (tot an much us $30 for coal in tho winter.
The plun Is the must mdlenl rver pioposcd for tho relief of tho clty'a poor.
KKKNCII SEIZE PELOPONNESUS RAILWAY
LONDON, Nov. 23. A dispatch lecelvcil hero from Athens states that the
Peloponnesus railway station vvns taken In chnrgo today by Krcnch marines.
DOSTON BANK .MEETS LIVING COST WITH WAGE INCItEASE
I10STON, Nov. 23. Tho National Shnvvmut Hank him made n ten per cent
Increase In wnges of till employes, tlntltiK from November ID, based on tho Increase
In necessary expenses of living.
ONE .MAN HOLDS 72,000,000 EGGS; UNITED STATES INVESTIGATES
WASHINGTON', Nov. 23. Tho Department of .lustlco announced today that
Federal District Attorney Clyno, nt CIiIciiro, prcimmnbly under ortlcrB from the
department, had begun nn Investigation of tho cg(? holdltjgH of James 13. Wctr,
"egg klnK." which Wetz admits amount to nearly 72,000,000 crkb. Olllclals nnld
tho Investigation va to determine whether a prosecution could bo begun under
the anti-trust laws.
AMERICANS BARELY ESCAPE VILLISTA BULLETS
131. I'ASO, Tox ; Nov. 23. Klfteen Americans nnrrovvly escaped death, .when, a
band-ot Vllllstas attacked a train on which they wore pnssongtr.V 'n'cnr Guzman,
only fifty miles south of the border, last night. Tho engineer opened his throttle
and shot tils train to safety amid n show or of bullets.
PREPARE TO HANDLE 10,000 PACKAGES FOR SOLDIERS
HltOW'NSVII.I.K, Tox., Nov. 23. Railroads and express companies hnvo esti
mated that 10.000 Christmas packages will coma Into tho Ilrownsvtlln district to bo
distributed to soldiers n tho camps here. Special facilities nro being provided to
handle the Immense business.
LOUISIANA ROAD COST $12,194,231; CAPITALIZATION $10,938,031
WASHINGTON, Nov. 23. A Btory of boom financing that fell flat was told
today In tho report of tho Interstate Commerco Commission placing u valuation on
the New Orleann'Texns nnd Mexico Railroad, n Louisiana lino. Although tho lino
cost $12,194,231 ami now Is valued nt only 17.572,850, It Is saddled with u capitaliza
tion of $10.939, 031, according to tho commission's report. This Is tho third railroad
to be reported upon completely by tho commission In connection with its physical
valuation of all Interstate inlltonils.
NEW YORK STAKEHOLDERS PAYING BETS TODAY
NKW OUK, Nov. 23. .Stakeholders on tho curl) and firms of Wall street
brokers who have been holding cash nnd memoranda repicscntlng millions of dol
lars In the election wagcts will begin todny to pay the backers of President Wilson.
Tho decision, held fifteen days in abeyance becauso Mr. Hughes delayed so long
his concession of defeat, Ih now "ofllclal" and payment of tho wagers will occupy.
It Is expected, no small part of the activities on the Street.
ALLIES LOSE 102 PLANES IN MONTH, SAYS BERLIN
HICltl.IN, Nov. 23. As the. result of nlr combats on tho western front In Oc
tober, says tho Overseas News Agc.cy, 102 Anglo-Krcnch aeroplanes were lost. Of
this total fifty-eight, of which thirty-seven wero llrltlsh untl tvventy-ono wero French,
fell Into German hands. Koity-two machines were shot down beyond the hostile
lines. Two wero foiced to land behind tho batjlefrnnt. The German aeroplane
losses for October, the news ugency aas, were fourteen machines.
VATICAN WILL NOT CONSIDER POLISH "AUTONOMY"
ROM I', Nov. 23. Replying to tho Central Powers, tho Holy 8co nas stated
Its Inability to consider tho Austro German pronunclnmento ns to Poland's autonomy
beforo tho conclusion of peace proceedings. It was understood toduy.
MOTION.PICTURK MEN TO FIGHT SUNDAY CLOSING
NKW YOnK, Nov. 23. New York motion-picture men today declared tho loss
to moving-picture exhibitors will exceed J7, 500,000 in New York city alone If tho
decision of tho Appellate Court prohibiting Sunday film shows stands. Tho motion
picture men ore already planning u, fight ugalnst the decision beforo the Court of
Appeals.
NEW YORK FOOD PROBE INDICTMENTS EXPECTED
NKW YORK, Nov. 23. Definite steps have been taken here by Federal, State
and municipal authorities to ameliorate, If possible, the serious conditions resulting
from the steadily mounting cost of foodstuffs. District Attorney Svvunn said that
several Indictments under the State antitrust law may be returned soon against mid.
dlemcn believed to have entered into "gentlemen's agreements,"
v
TEN PER CENT BONUS TO ATLAS POWDER MAKERS
WILMINGTON, Del., Nov. 23. it Is announced that, the 25Q0 employes of the
Atlas Powder Company, who are Included In a profit-sharing plan of the company
and have boen employed slpce September, will receive a ten per cent bonus on their
W3ges, payable between now and Christmas.
BALK PLAN TO FLOOD CITY WITH BOGUS COINS
Secret Service men have unearthed an attempt to flood thU city with bogus
15 coins and ! Federal IUaerve, notes. Captain Matthew F. Gtlflln, head of tho
bureau, is of tho opinion that there Is a well-orgttnlzea band of counterfeiters In a
small town near Philadelphia.
., ii i ip. mi i i ! -i y u
PROMINENT AMERICAN WOMAN IN LONDON DIES
IXJNDQN. Nov. 23. Mra. Almerio Paget, one? of the most prominent Americans
In Iondon society, is dead. Sh,o was the daughter of WUUam. O, Whitney, former
Secretary of the United States Navy. Her husband la a aon of tho lata General
lord Alfred Paget and a distinguished member of Parliament.
FINDS CHILD AFTER 12 YEARS; THEN IS SPURNED
A twelve-year search of a mother for her child has been successful, but may
bring further disappointment to the parent. Mr. Florence. 1. Pardroore, of Hart
ford, Conn , a former BbUadelphian. put her child to board In thla eljy twelve years
.en and then lost trace ot hr. After many yaars the -woman found. hr qhlfcl in
, --
l.QfalriOn, r. OUl WB Ifi'fe mviw sivwu uy,
$4opie4 ?
.. . . ,!. -..,- ..- . -v
iviw m ;ia , wtuV wao fr-
" ' - ffSZ
$1.20 CITY TAX
READILY FIXED
BYCOUNCILIEN
Will Yield About $8000
Above Sum Budget ,'
Requires
FINANCE COMMITTEE
UNANIMOUS ON RATE
$1,218,000 Will Be Total
Working Surplus for
Unexpected Items ;
i M AYOR HIGHLY PLEASED
How 1917 City Tax
Rale Was Fixed at $120
COUNCILS' Finance Committee
unnnlmously votes for $1.20 tax
rnto for 1017, increnslnR it twenty
cents, nnd will report to Common
Council this afternoon,
Pcnrose-McNlchol nnd Vnro-Ad-ministration
f net Ions united, Select
Councilman ScRcr, Penrose leader,
making motion for $1.20 rnto.
Absence of Select Councilman
Trnincr, chief foe of Varo-Admin-v
istrntion high-rate policy, and unity
of opinion nmone; factions indicate
51.20 rato will become Jaw.
New rnto would leave $8000 8ur-1
plus, according tffChairmnn GafTnoy,
tn addition to $1,210,000 working sur
plus over nnd above $1,000,000 new
street cleaning expenses.
"I'm satisfied," says Mayor Smith.
The city tax rata for 1917 was fixed at
(1.20 todny hyflfenanlmous vote In Coun
cils' Finance Cmilttco nnd as BUch will
bo reported favorably to Common Council
Into this afternoon. Made a law, the tax
rate would yield n surplus of J80Q0, beatd
1, 210, 000 which tho city can uso to meet
unexpected expenses.
The expected opposition of the Penrose
McNIchol faction to the Vnro-Admlnlstra-tlon
plans to Increase the tax rate to that
flRUro failed to .materialize. Select COUrW
cllmnn Charles Better, bf tho Seventh "Wardj
one of the strongest antagonists In tho
Penrose forces, typified the sudden unfty
ot opinion by making the motion o ft
the tax rate at 11.20. His motion was sec
onded by Select Councilman. WlltlarnJi
lniey, or the Thirty-wntn wara, V-i;"
floor leader. --
The tax rate, which will cave a surplus'
ot about J8000 over tho budget expenses,
will encounter no serious opposition -'In
Councils, It was predicted. This was au
gured by tha nbsence of Select Councilman
Henry J. Trainer, of the Third Ward, who
led the fight ngalnat tho high tax rate, And
by the unanimity ot opinion displayed by
members of tho rival factions attho meet
ing. NO HALAUV BOOSTS
The Increased revenuo to be realized from,
tho new tax rate will not be used to pay
Increases In salaries. It was made plain by
Common Councilman Joseph P. Gaffney, of
tho Twenty-alxth Ward, chairman of the.
Finance Committee. Mayor Smith, he said,
was unalterably opposed to Increases until
the receipt of n report of the Civil Servloe
Commission, which is engaged in nn effort
to standardize salaries.
In addition to the 18000 surplus shown
by Chairman Oaffney's revised figures,
there will be a separata surplus of about
J2.210.000 from revenues not counted In
his estlmato1; this, he said, would provldo
for the Increused coat of garbage removal
nnd street cleaning, amounting to less tban
1,000,000, leaving a total WorUlng sur
plus of about J1.21S.000 to meet unexpected
expenses.
"I niu very much pleased by the re
sult." said Mayor Smith, who occupied a
seat close to Chairman daffney, "Tho
funds realized by the l.:o tax rato will
be ample, I thlnU-."
The revised figures presented ny Mr.
daffney were:
t.vnu. from Jt.SO Ux rt.
Uvcnue from (Inking fun J.
l35.fl03.rV35.OT
:;oa..uT
.l35.1VT.924.0t
Total
Total
revtmi
tlmatl expnea.
Burplua
J7,i.ea
Qaffney on the separate and distinct Items
of expenditure and revenuo not Included
In his estimate were, In round numbers, ai
follows; -,
Kurplua ahova , ..... ....
Hurplua from City Controller
Increased water renute
Nw In ayatam. ale
ss.noo
1. 410,000
400,111X1
400.000
vvorxinr aurpm" . ............ .
Incrraatd coat of atrtet clasnlna and
cartage removal
f3.Ilt.00ft
1.000,000
Final working aurplua
tl.218.WXJ
LITTLE BicKEnma
The JJ.S0 tax rate, went through wltjfja
ruah after a little bickering. ChalrrpanJ'-.
Gaffney read hl revised figures, which, h ,
(, m1 ii u wi
Continued en t'ate Two, Column Te
PBESIDENT WILSON INDISPOSED
Nation's Chief Executive KerA Indoor
by Cold and Weather x
WASHINGTON, Nov. II. President Wr
son is suffering from a alight cold In t '
head. TJibJ fSk somblned with tb 3j
weather, cmplld bun to cancel hi oa J
tomary gulf Tfl tn, morning. This
President remained In hla study during th.4
day.
It Is not thought the Presidents twMe?
position will keep him from the Arnjy-Wavy
game, Saturday ,
Fairbanks Wires Marshall
INDIANAPOUS, JatL. Nov
Charles W. tfetrbaaiut, HawiWkaa
foe Visa VngMmt. t4a Mat a
swfffiHinawL .,
Hfg5fcJ
? f
rplua ,,,. , i,i.
Hunnlementary figures furnished by Mr. v.
g? JMWi-
iSTfi "V
