S^S,"*^^ W^TVrni^^f^
if
A TEXASJORTHER
Blows Down Shelter Tents of Com-
pany and Other Companies
of Minnesota Brigade.
About 30,000 Men Will Participate in
12-Day Maneuverthe Larg-
est Ever Attempted.
Camp Llano Grande, Nov. 14, 1916.
We returned Saturday afternoon
from a four-day Minnesota Brigade
hike and are preparing for a twelve
day one to start November 16 from
which we will return just before
Thanksgiving. The first day out on
our last hike one of those historic
Texas northers hit us with all its
force. When we went to bed it was
nice and warm, hut about 1:30 the
wind changed to the north and a cold
xain set in. Our shelter tents blew
down leaving the occupants exposed
to the driving rain. Many could not
find their clothes and had nothing but
their wet blankets for cover. About
2:30 orders were given to pack up and
go back to Llano Grande, a distance
of 13 miles, without breakfast, and
then it was decided to wait until day
light. When day broke the storm had
blown over and it was then decided to
continue the hike. Edinburg was the
next camp and was made about noon,
when the first meal of the day was
prepared. Blankets and equipment
were dried and a fairly comfortable
night was spent. The rest of the trip
was uneventful and we returned none
the worse for the experience.
The First Minnesota struck out
about 2:30 that morning, leaving all
their equipment and reached Llano
Grande, when they were ordered to
turn around and complete the hike.
The coming 12-day maneuver is the
biggest thing of its kind ever at
tempted. 'About 30,000 men will par
ticipate.
The Hoosier Guard has the follow
ing to say of the giant proceedings,
the proportions of which have never
before been assumed in the training of
national guard troops or regular army
soldiers on the border:
"The army as well as the navy will
be used in the maneuver, althoughrit
as well as other parts of the game will
probably be simulated. From their
war ships in the Gulf of Mexico the
great imaginary fsrce, that of a for
eign power bent on making a success
ful landing and conquest of the coun
try, will land at Point Isabel and will
march to attack Llano Grande, the
giant mobilization camp and the point
which, once wiped out, would give
them the key to the border.
"The troops will move from Llano
Grande, San Benito arid Brownsville
and attack the enemy, the object be
ing to successfully drive them back
to the coast. Once driven back the
enemy will make their last stand and
here it is that the greatest "battle" of
the entire two weeks "war" will be
staged, and here it will be shown
whether or not the troops from In
diana, as well as the Minnesota, Ne
braska, Iowa, Virginia, Louisana,
North Dakota and Oklahoma outfits
can fight a great battle, whether the
enemy is simulated or a serious real
ity.
"It will give us a chance to show
what we have spent months driving
at, whether the military training, and
Moss' definition of all military train
ing is "Success in Battle," has scored
the hits that were intended not to
miss the target.
"The hikes and field problems held
during the last several weeks have
been to prepare us for the big ma
neuver and in General Order No. 53
from General Parker's headquarters,
sent out to the organization comman
ders October 25, orders the command
ing officers of all camps, brigades,
regiments and smaller organizations,
including all staff troops in the dis
trict, to at once take steps to have
all transportation, equipment and sup
plies necessary for their organizations
to take the field, on hand and in
servicable condition. The order then
scheduled the four day hikes to be
taken after the completion of the
regimental tests and prior to the ma
neuvers. Cavalry, field, artillery,
engineers, ambulance companies, and
signal corps companies were ordered
to take the same hike as we just fin
ished.
"The plans under way may be
changed to include an actual force,
consisting of the Brownsville and San
Benito troops, which will march from
the direction of the coast against
Llano Grande, and then fall back to
Point Isabel. General Parker hopes
to arrange it so there will be fighting
both by day and by night, and every
branch of the army's fighting units
will be brought into active play."
company is not to march with the
regulars but with division headquar
ters and our duties are to provide
guards and orderlies for the general
and staff and to pitch and strike thejr
tents, etc. We also have to feed about
35 extra men, clerks, mounted order
lies, chauffeurs, and motorcycle
scouts.
A regular army recruiting office has
been opened at camp headquarters and
they are getting quite a number of en
listments for the various departments
of the army, excepting the infantry.
All who were entitled to vote did so
at the election Nov. 7. Sergt. Cordiner
acted as clerk. As far as we know
all voted yes on the bond issue.
They are getting sensible here now
and allow us to sleep until 6:30 a. m.
on week days and 7:00 on Sundays.
We had another cold spell the fore
part of the week and although the
thermometer only registered 36 de
grees all affirm that they never suf
fered so from the cold in Minnesota.
Stoves were set up in some of the
tents making them quite comfortable.
It is just as warm as before now,
however.
It is very likely that we will spend
Thanksgh ing in the field or possibly
arrive home that day as the maneuvers
don't start until Saturday, Nov. 18.
Turkey and trimmings have been or
dered so will probably celebrate later.
According to the Brownsville paper
the Third Minnesota is to be ordered
home immediately, which probably
means after the big maneuver.
MIKE.
First Death Among Boys.
Word was received on Monday that
Gustaf H. Flink, a member of Co. G,
Third Minn. Inf., had died at the hos
pital at Brownsville, Texas, the pre
vious day. Mr. Flink was one of the
Milaca squad that went^ with Co. G.
He was a bright young fellow and a
general favorite with his comrades.
Much sympathy is felt for his be
reaved parents, who are honored res
idents of Milaca. Gustaf Flink gave
his young life to his country just as
much so as though he had died on the
battle field. The remains will be
brought back to his childhood's home
for interment and will be accorded a
soldier~'s burial. Dr. F. L. Anderson.
The following account of the death
of Dr. F. L. Anderson, who practiced
here as a dentist, appeared in the last
issue of the Cannon Falls Beacon,
and will be of interest to Princeton
friends who learned to know and re
spect the deceased:
"The saying that 'Death loves a
shining mark' was never more truth
fully exemplified than in the departure
of Dr. Fredrick Lincoln Anderson,
who passed away on November 10,
1916. He was the only child of Mr.
and Mrs. F. R. Anderson of this city.
"He was born in Cannon Falls on
January 10, 1890, and at the time of
his death was twenty-six years, ten
months and six days of age. He at
tended school here and passed through
all the grades and graduated from
the high school in June, 1908. Some
time after he entered the dental de
partment of the State university and
was graduated a D. D. S. in June 1914.
He was. an apt and dilligent student
and in all instances won the confidence
and esteem of teachers and fellow
students. He was quiet and unas
suming but he was endowed with true
manhood and led an exemplary life.
"In August 1913 he was married to
Miss Marie Fosterine Barlow and to
them was born one son, Barlow Fred
erick, who died August 14, 1916, aged
one year and seven months.
"Dr. Anderson begun the practice of
his profession at Princeton and re
mained there until his health failed
him. He had contracted tuberculosis,
and hoping for relief spent several
months at the Pokegama Sanatorium.
But the hoped for relief never came
and in the latter part of the past sum
mer he returned to the home of his
parents in Cannon Falls where he
gradually declined and passed on to
the better land on the date given
above. During his illness he was pa
tient and resigned, made no complaint
and passed away cheered and com
forted by the hope of a Christian that
life and love, sweet as they are on
earth, extend beyond the grave and
bloom into fuller fruition there.
"The funeral took place in the af
ternoon of Tuesday, the 14th. Services
were held at the house and later at
the Swedish Lutheran church, con
ducted by Dr. P. A. Mattson. Appro
priate hymns were sung by the choir
and two solos by Mrs. Ada Hanson.
Flowers were brought in profusion by
the friends of the deceased. The pall
bearers were Drs. S. L. Conley, O. E.
Doely and E. C. Johnson, fellow den-
R. C. DUNN, Publisher. Terms, $1.00 Per Year. PRINCETON, MILLE LACS COUNTY, MINNESOTA, THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 1916
tists, and Philip Johnson, Carl Olson
and Algot Swanson. intimate friends."
No Occasion for Friction.
It does seem to us as if there should
be no hesitancy on the part of the
board of county commissioners to co
operate heartily with the Highway
^Commission in the work of surveying,
making a detailed estimate and super
vising the improvement of State Road
No^.1, where the Federal aid is to be
expended. The Highway Commission
offers the services of one of the best
engineers in its employ to do the work
without cost to the county, the work
of making a detailed survey to com
mence at once. Certainly the Com
mission could not make a more gen
erous offer. This road in Mille Lacs
county is the first in the state to re
ceive Federal aid, hence the Highway
Commission is particularly anxious to
make a good showing and make every
dollar count, and that is just exactly
what the people of Mille Lacs county
want and will insist on.
There is no disposition on the part
of the Highway Commission or any
one else to reflect on Mr. James D.
Gray, the resident assistant highway
engineer. He is a capable young man
but has not had a large experience in
road engineering, and besides he will
have all the work that he can attend
to, as there is $32,000 more to be ex
pended on other state roads in the
county next year. The Highway Com
mission wants to meet all the require
ments of the Federal road authorities,
and for that reason they offer the
services of one of the best and most
successful engineers in the employ of
the state to lay out and supervise the
work from start to finish. The coun
ty commissioners, of course, to let the
contracts for the work. Then if the
work is not done according to con
tract, if the results obtained do not
justify the expenditures, the responsi
bility will rest with the engineer and
the High\vay Commission. When the
county commissioners let the con
tracts their responsibility ceases.
Surely nothing could be fairer.
Presumably the Federal road au
thorities will have their men inspect
the work as it proceedswhere $50,-
000 of Federal money is to be expend
ed it is righfthey should.
Mr. Gray, the resident engineer,
will have a fine opportunity to display
his mettle on the other state roads,
and if he can show good results for
the money expended under his super
vision it will be a feather in his cap
and redound to his future advantage.
No time should be lost in getting
the preliminary work, not only on
State Road No. 1 but on all the State
roads that it is contemplated to im
prove, under way at once, and have
everything in readiness to commence
active road-improvement as soon as
spring opens. The work should be all
completed next year.
There is another thing that should
be kept in mind by the county commis
sioners. If there are not sufficient
funds to complete State Road No. 1
its entire "length next year, and the
part that has been completed is satis
factory to the State and Federal road
authorities, it will not be a difficult
matter to get additional assistance,
both State and Federal a year hence.
With all our heart and soul we wish
to see the road-improvement program
so auspiciously inaugurated this year
carried out to a successful comple
tion next year, and we sincerely hope
that the county commissioners will co
operate with the State and Federal
authorities to bring about that re
sult.
Shooting Accident.
Maurice Evenson, aged 22, of Mora,
was accidently shot Sunday through
the abdomen while handing a 38 cali
bre revolver to his brother. He was
brought to the Northwestern hospital
by Dr. C. S. Bousset of Mora, reach
ing the hospital four hours after the
accident. Dr. H. C. Cooney performed
an abdominal section operation at
once and found and closed two wounds
in the young man's stomach. The
bullet was not located nor did the pa
tient's condition warrant a prolonged
search at the time of the operation.
Tuesday the bullet was located by an
X-Ray examination. So far the
young man's condition is good.
Modern Piety.
Dick and Jimmy were visiting their
grandmother. One night when they
were saying their prayers Jimmy
voiced his petitions for Christmas
presents in a tone that could be heard
a mile.
"Why do you pray for your Christ
mas presents so loud?" interrupted
Dick. "The Lord ain't deaf."
"No," whispered Jimmy, "but
Grandma isV'
J*QBF3*&
LIGHT POTATO CROP
Government Report Indicates That
1916 Yield is the Lowest
Since the Year 1908.
Other News Notes of Interest to Po-
tato Growers and Shippers
Car Shortage Continues.
The local potato market is about
the same this week as last. From
$1.30 to $1.35 is being paid for all
varieties except Triumphs, which con
tinue firm at $1.50 and $1.55 per
bushel. Receipts have been fairly
good, but there have been no ship
ments due to the shortage of cars.
At the present time there are thous
ands of bushels of spuds stored in the
warehouses of Princetonsome of the
houses are just about fullas the
ear shortage has retarded shipments
for weeks. Local buyers estimate
that the farmers have goodly hold
ings of potatoes yet.
The Chicago potato market ad
vanced from 10 to 15 cents last week.
The first spell of cold weather served
to put renewed snap into the market,
Scarcity of refrigerator cars and limit
ed holdings at loading stations have
kept the receipts light. Outside buy
ers have bought only after a hand-to
mouth fashion this fall, consequently
the approach of winter finds them
with only a small proportion of the
stocks they usually have on hand at
this season of the year. From this
operators anticipate that the call will
be steady during December and Jan
uarymonths that are rather quiet
ordinarilyfrom the fact that buyers
have usually laid in a sufficient sup
ply to run their trade during the holi
day season.
The reports received by the bureau
of crop estimates of the U. S. Depart
ment of Agriculture show that the
month of October has not improved
the former poor crop outlook, and es
pecially is this true of potatoes.
Potatoes, from the promise of 300,-
000,000 bushels on October 1, show,
according to yields reported on No
vember 1, a production of only 288,-
964,690 iiushels. This is equal to only
80 per cent of last year's crop, which
was about equal to the average of
the preceeding five years. This is the
smallest crop since 1908, being about
the average of crops produced 15
years ago. The shortage this year is
due principally to the extreme heat
and dryness of the season in most of
the heavy producing sections, with an
accompanying plague of insects. In
northern Maine, where conditions
were favorable, the crop was much
larger than last year's short crop. The
yields in New York and Pennsylvania
are slightly below the poor crops of
last year. The crops in the eastern
states, taken altogether, are about the
same as last year's production. The
great decrease occurred in the north
central states, shortages compared
with last yeai* being shown in every
state except North Dakota, the decline
in these states alone amounting to
about 65,000,000 bushels. While the
crop in Montana, Wyoming and Colo
rado is decidedly shorter than last
year, Utah and Nevada have about
the finest crops of record there, and
the Pacific coast states show in
creases. The quality of the crop is re
ported at 86 compared with 85.3 last
year and a ten-year average of 83.3.
In Maine, however, they are extra
good, 96 per cent, against 90 last
year, and in New York 82 against 73
last year. The Virginia crop is ex
cellent both in size and quality. The
Michigan crop is poor in quality, 76,
but this is vastly better than the con
dition of 61 reported last year. While
the potatoes are generally small and
'in many cases irregular in shape,
there is very little of the blight and
rot that was so prevalent last year. A
small amount of rot is reported in the
middle and north Atlantic states, but
not in northern Maine (Aroostook
county). In a number of states the
tuber is somewhat immature from the
vine having been killed by frost be
fore the growing season was com
pleted.
Michigan potatoes growers are in
clined to hold their spuds, and although
they can get $1.35 per bushel prefer to
gamble on the bulk of their holdings.
The car shortage continues to be a
serious factor in the potato situation
and the California Potato Dealers As
sociation has filed suit for damages
against the Southern Pacific railroad
in the sum of $50,000. The association
charges bad management on the part
of the carrier, and that refrigerator
cars have been sent out of the state
and not returned.
Potatoes growers of the northwest
-^c^ s^i^M^r^A^Sf^" ^i-^-^i"'-
[and especially of Minnesota will de
mand concessions from railroads east
of Chicago at a hearing before on ex
aminer of the Interstate Commerce
Commission in Minneapolis, November
'26.
Third Regiment Ordered Home.
Five national guard regiments were
ordered home from the Mexican bor
jder last Thursday. They are First
[South Carolina, Seventh New York,
Third Indiana, Third Wisconsin and
I Third Minnesota, of which Co. of
I Princeton is a part. Other companies
in the Third come from Duluth,Anoka,
,Zumbrota, Eveleth, Olivia, Crookston,
Stillwater, Red Wing and Hibbing and
a machine gun company from Roches
ter.
In a statement announcing the
order, the war department said it is
in continuation of the policy "an-
nounced some time ago to gradually
withdraw national guard regiments
from the border as conditions permit
and, in accordance with the recom
mendations of General Funston.
Department officials said the order
had no relation to the proceedings of
the joint conference at Atlantic City.
Approximately 100,000 national
guardsmen will remain on the border
when these five regiments, with a total
strength of about 6,000, have been
withdrawn.
The barracks at Fort Snelling have
been placed in readiness to receive
the Third Minnesota regiment and
house it until the mustering out is
completed.
The boys of the Third, however, are
'participating in extensive maneuvers
land it is not expected that they will
(get
iinrntJTltW
away from Texas before the first
of December, and probably will not
reach their homes much before Christ
mas.
The regiment was ordered into ser
vice June 19, and moved to Camp Bob
leter June 26. Four days later they
were mustered into Federal service.
July 4 the first formal parade was
given at the Speedway, leaving July
10 for the border. Camp was estab
lished July 16 at Llano Grande, where
Col. F. E. Resche was made bragadier
general July 25.
The next day Lieut. H. V. Eva was
elected colonel.
In a -review of the regiment by the
leading officials Aug. 15, the regiment
was given high praise, and second
rank in the division for its efficiency.
Company boys should be* accorded
a warm welcome when they return to
Princeton. That they did not see ac
tive service in the field was their good
fortune. They were ready and willing
to do their duty whenever called upon.
Princeton and Milaca should join in
welcoming the boys home.
Lawler's Prohibition Assistant.
Vance Chapman, who writes inter
esting St. Paul correspondence for
some of the leading newspapers over
the nom de plume of "County Chair-
man," has this to say of the fight for
United States senator in this state:
The disturbing element in Mr. Kel
logg's case was the Prohibition candi
date, W. G. Calderwood, an Anti
Saloon league leader of note, and the
manner in which he piled up a vote
in some localities was a caution. At
no time did he leave any doubt as to
whose scalp he was after and the
friendliness that existed between him
and Dpi Lawler, the democratic can
didate'for senator, almost cinched in
the minds of some the belief of a wet
and dry combination. Both said kind
things about each other and were al
ways agreed that the election of Mr.
Kellogg would be a menace to good
government. That a vote for Mr.
Calderwood was, however, a half vote
for Mr. Lawler, undeniably the wet
candidate, was never even whispered
by them. That was left to the voters
to find out, which some of them did.
Mueller-Hamann.
This afternoon at the Zion German
Lutheran church in Princeton town
ship a pretty wedding was solemnized
when Mr. Herman Mueller of Anoka
and Miss Bertha Hamann of Prince
ton were united in marriage. Rev.
Otto S&rauch performed the ceremony
in the presence of numerous relatives
and friends. A reception followed at
the home of the bride's parents, Mr.
and Mrs. Albert Hamann. Mr. and
Mrs. Mueller received numerous use
ful and handsome gifts. Those who
know the groom speak in complimen
tary terms of him, while the bride is
a young lady whose winning ways
have endeared *her to all. Scores of
friends extend to the happy young
couple choicest wishes.
Princeton Has Low Rates
The village of Becker has granted
an electric light and "power franchise
to the St. Cloud Water Power Co. for
25 years, the plant to be in operation i
by the fall of 1917. The lighting
rates will be 15 cents per kilowatt'
hour and the power rates will be 8%i
cents per kilowatt hour. It is pro
vided in the franchise, however, that'
VOLUME XL. NO. 49
the rates will be reduced to 13 cents
for lighting after two years from the
time the current is first turned on.
Elk River Star News.
Princeton users of electric lights
pay only 10 cents per kilowatt and the
village makes money at that. The
Water, Light, Power & Building com
mission is deserving of credit for
efficient management.
Mrs. Elizabeth Field Irish.
On Thursday morning, November
16, Mrs. Elizabeth Field Irish, a for
mer esteemed resident of this village,
passed away at the home of her son
in-law and daughter, Dr. and Mrs. O.
C. Tarbox, in Oneonta. N. Y., at the
advanced age of 92 years.
Deceased was born at Lewiston,
Maine, Oct. 4, 1824, and was of Puri
tan ancestry. Her grandfather,
Joseph Field, served as a sergeant and
first lieutenant in the battle of Bunker
Hill, and her mother was a decendant
of Miles Standish, captain of Ply
mouth. She received her education in
the schools of Lewiston and the Lewis
ton Falls Academy. October 19, 1845,
she became the wife of Freeman
Irish, well known in Maine as a lum
ber merchant, and later connected with
shoe manufacturing interests. Mr.
Irish passed away in 1906.
In 1894 Mr. and Mrs. Irish came to
Princeton from Lewiston, Maine, to
live with their son-in-law and daugh
ter, where they resided until 1903
when they all removed to Oneonta,
N. Y.
Mrs. Irish was ever active in church
work, when able to be, and displayed
qualities of mind and heart that
earned her the love of all who knew
her. The daughter and two grand
daughters, Mrs. Stuart E. Howe of
Denver, Col., and Elizabeth Tarbox
of Oneonta, survive her.
Chester A. Congdon Dead.
Chester A. Congdon, the well-known
Duluth multi-millionaire, died at the
St. Paul hotel, St. Paul, Tuesday morn
ing after a brief illness.
Mr. Congdon was taken ill on the
9th of November. The doctors said he
was suffering from pleurisy. Later
his heart weakened and he failed
gradually until the end came.
Mr. Congdon was a very wealthy
man. He was- a lawyer of high stand
ing. He amassed riches out of mining
properties.
He was a comparatively young man
having been born in 1853. He leaves
a wife and six children.
Pohl-Peltier.
Mr. Frank Pohl and Miss Grace
Peltier were united in marriage by
Rev. Geer & the Methodist church
last Thursday, and left at once for
Minneapolis on a brief wedding trip.
They returned to Princeton Tuesday
evening. The groom is a wide-awake
young farmer of sterling worth, and
is deservedly popular among his as
sociates, while the bride is a young
lady of pleasing ways, who has taken
a course in the Northwestern Hospital
Training School for Nurses. Mr. and
Mrs. Pohl will assuredly have a happy
future if the well wishes of friends
count for aught.
As to the Parcel Post.
The United States parcel post is
handling approximately 1,100,000,000
parcels a day, or over 90,000,000 a
month. It is the largest express ser
vice in the world. It is impossible to
state the proportion of this business
which is distinctly rural. It is un
doubtedly true, however, that the chief
function of the government's express
service has proved to be agricultural.
That is, the government is the princi
pal express carrier now operating be
tween city a'nd country and vice versa.
The bulk of the parcel post business
is of this nature, whereas the bulk of
the business of the private express
companies passes between city and
city.
The following letter addressed by a
farmer to former Postmaster Praeger
of Washington, D. C, reflects the at
titude of practically every farmer
toward the parcel post:
To my mind nothing has ever been
inaugurated in America which will
tend to make the farmer more con
tent to stay on the farm than the
establishing of the parcel-post method
of disposing of products. It gives him
business practice it gives him the
feeling of doing a mail order business.
He finds much more satisfaction and
pleasure in "preparing his produce for
real appreciative human beings first
hands as against a sort of commission
machine into which his produce, no
matter how painstakingly it has been
prepared, is dumped. It also brings
rural dwellers into close communion
with the envied city residents. It
gives him the feeling that his efforts
are appreciated, and creates a high
incentive to produce the best possible
articles, and thus win the confidence
of his patrons.
