fit- V
x it
THE WEATHER FORECAST. '
IncrcMlnf cloudiness and wanner to
day; probably rain by to-night. .
HlgfcMt tttnptratura yesterday, 43; lowest, it.
Detailed weather, mall and marine reports on page 1.
V
IT SHINES FOPv ALL
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 84.
NEW YORK, THURSPAY, NOVEMBER 23, 1916. CofirlpM, 1111, y tA 0a PrtuMn? anf PuMtsMsp .4ort4rlo.
ONE CENT
la Greater New Tk. t
Jersey air aad Newark. I TWO CENTS,
RAILWAYS WISH
BIG ROAD USED
IK 8 HOUR TEST
They Say Heal; Problem of
Adamson Law Is Not
Covered ty. Hook."
VAINLY: SEEK PACT TO
STAVE OFF PENALTY
Want Santa Fe or Union
Pacific Case Baste of Su
preme Court Appeal.
GREGORY WILL MEET
THEM AGAIN TO-DAY
Week for Argument, Leav
ing Only Eleven Days for
Judges to Consider.
Wajhixoton, Nov. 22. The struggle
over the eight hour law has not abated
because of the decision of Judge Hook
of the United States District Court at
Kansas City, holding; that the statute
Is unconstitutional.
Tha situation In Washington ap
peared to be-even more muddled than
ever. Fruitless conferences were held
at the Department of Justice between
the Attorney-General and Solicitor
General and trie railroad attorneys in
an effort to reach an agreement upon
a test case. These conferences will bo
continued to-morrow. It is apparent
that one or the other side to tlio con
troversy must yield ground If there Is
to be an amicable arrangement for
hastening a decision by tho United
States Supreme Court.
The Attorney-General, apparently con
fident that the'Clovernment now has the
upper hand as" a rWUlfuT the strategy,
by which tho cai brought by tho re
ceivers of the Missouri, Oklahoma and
Oqir Railroad was given the right of
way 'in tha court, is Inclined to push It
through Irt the hope of obtaining a llnal
decision before January.
Heads Taken by Surprise.
Th railroad attorneys, who have been
cencentratlrw their attention upon the
Santa- Fe and Union Pacific case, are
not dltpcaed to stake the'outcome upon
the case decided to-day. Taken com
pletely br surprise, they are now scroti
nliln'g the record.
Thav take the stand that the Missouri.
Oklahoma and Gulf does not afford a
thorough test of the applicability of the
eight hour law. It Is a short line, having
only 114 muss 01 traca-sge. in equip
ment consists of forty-two locomotives
and 1.000 cars. It Is moreover 111 tho
tends of a receiver and It wan not rep
resented on the conference commission
at raitrnari manserem which conducted
the negotiations with the brotherhoods
of railroad employees, out of which the
eight hour law came as an Indirect re
sult The representatives of the railroads
contend that the Missouri. Oklahoma and
Quit does not present a fair example of
the problems which the Important rail
roads must meet in attempting to aviy
tha iturht hour law. Its contractu with
Its employees might be comparatively
simple and uniform, whereas the larger
roads have many forms of contracts,
d 'fieri ng In aome Instances with each
subsidiary road of the system, The con
dltlons of employment, length of runs
and other circumstances are not the
same for the short road as for the large
system. It la urged that the Pennsyl
vanta might And It Impossible to apply
s law wulch could be carried out eflec
lively by a railroad of S00 miles.
Bararala la Refased.
These matters were discussed at length
this evening In a conference at the De
partment of Justice between Attoency
Ceneral Gregory and Holicltor-Oencral
Tavls, representing the Department of
Justice, and A. H. Harris, attorney for
the New York Central, and C. M. Dawes,
representing the Burlington.
The railroad attorneys were disposed
to pin their, faith to the.Kanta Fo and
Union Pacific cases. The Government
oniclals were as much Inclined to carry
the controversy through with tho .Mis
souri, Oklahoma and Gulf as the point
of attack.
The railroad attorneys as a basis for
the proposed stipulation also asked that
In the event both sides agreed upon a
tett case the Government agree not to
ask the enforcement of the penally'
clause In case the matter was not finally
adjudicated before the eight hour law
goes Into effect. The Attorney General
I (-fused to strike such a bargain, or at
lent until he had consulted Messrs. Un
ilrwood, Todd and Hagerman, now hi
Kansas City. When the conferences
tnded an agreement seemed to be as far
an ay ss ever.
The discussions probably will be re
urned to-morrow or when both sides
Imv armed themselves with the records
of the more Important cases that have
been filed. Attorney-Oenerat Gregory
said to-night that It was difficult to
reach an agreement without the records
Wore them.' Theso will be obtained
with as little delay as possible.
Deelslaa WMhoat Argnntrnt,
In the meantime the Department of
Juitlce appears to be very well satisfied
with the result of Its strategy In bring
ing to Judicial focus first the Missouri,
Oklahoma and' Gulf case. "I csnnot
ay," said Attorney General Gregory to
night, "that the announcement or a de
Galon la this case came to me as a
hock,"
Later the Attorney-General Issued this
tateroent : ( N S
"At the request of te Depart meat, of
lu.tlce, Jttssj Jfsok ta ths sK a led kr
th Missseari Ofclsbsma a4 atf au-roid-cstsvMrte.ttrt.tM
MmvmJ
HITCHCOCKS RISK LIVES T
TO SAVE POLO PONIES
Noted Sportsman, Wife and
Daughter Lead Horses From
Burning: Stable. '
Hswwtsad, Tj. I Nov. 12. Thomas
Hitchcock, his wife and his daughter,
Miss Helen. Imperilled their lives to
night when with table cloths and' blan
kets snatched up on the run they made
several trips Into their' burning stable
to rescue their hunters and polo ponies.
The stable burned to the ground and
all three of the Hitchcock had narrow
escapes, as proved by their corched
elothes, but alt the sixteen norses. many
of them blue ribboned veterans of a
succession of New York -and Long. W
and shows, were safe.
When the stable caught fire stable
hands notified the family, who rushed
out with whatever came first to hand
which would serve to blindfold the horses
for their trip through the flames. Guests
followed them and neighbors from other
country homes on the Jericho turnpike
at Went bury came to offer assistance.
The Hltchcocks themselves Insisted
upon attending to the safety of the
horses, to which they are devoted.
Others formed a bucket brigade, which,
while It could not save the stable, did
prevent the sparks from spreading the
flames to the fine home' or any of the
neighboring country places. The loss
Is put at $15,000.
Mr. Hitchcock Iran ardent sportsman.
Since the close of thr polo season he
and his family have been enjoying the
fox hunts of the Meadow Brook Club.
When this season was over they In
tended taking tho horses to Aiken for
the winter season.
SPERRY AND WOMAN
PILOT FALL INTO BAY
Inventor's Son and Mrs. Waldo
Pierce Smash Aircraft on
Fish Nets.
Barylon, L. 1.. Nov. 2:. Lawrence
B. Sperry. son of the Inventor of the
gyroscopic stabiliser, and Mrs. Waldo
Tierce, the only licensed amateur woman
aviator In this country, had a narrow
escape trom death to-day when Bperry's
hydroaeroplane. In which they were fly
tns. fell 600 feet Into Great Houth Hay.
Both were takeirttr South Hide Hospital,
where It was said they Were suffering
only from exposure and will be able to
leave In a few days.
According to Mr. Sperry he 'and Mrs.
Pierce had flown "from Amity villa over
the bay. At n height of about 00
feet he decided to volplane, as he
wanted to show his passenger the work
ings nf tho stabilizer. He struck a line
of fish nets and stakes Invtsll'ile from
above ami a hole was smashed in the
nose of the machine, which brought up
half under water.
Several gunners were near hunting
ducks. Among them were James Hyde,
von of Richard Hyde, the theatrical man.
He and Schuyler Watts, with a party of
friends, went out In a motor boat. They
found Mr. Sperry and Mrs. Pierce cling
ing to the pontoon of the craft and
brought them ashore.
Mr. Sperry denied that he had lost
control of his hydrnneroplane. Wit
nesses among the hunters said, however.
Ihat the machine seemed to be 1,000
feet up und having trouble when sud
denly it dived head first, striking the
water at nn angle of nearly 45 degrees.
Mrs. Pierce, whose husband Is with
the American Ambulance Corps In
Krancc. v. on her amateur pilot's cer
tificate last August 18 and declared that
she Intended to try for a license In the
military reserve flying corps If women
were to be admitted. She la a daughter
of the late Isaac U Rice, the inventor.
GROW FAT ON 40 CENTS A DAY.
Eight of Chicago's Dieting- Dosen
Gain In Wright.
Chicago, Nov. 22. The dieting dozen
of Health Board employees who are at
tempting to demonstrate that a pers-in
can live healthfully and well on 40 cents
a day finished tho first day of a two
weeks test to-day. No one complained
that the dinner to-night was not enough,
but Jack Spratt never left the platter
cleaner than any one of these,
John Dill nobertson, Health Commis
sioner, hnd criticised some because they
did not cat oil the ureaaTast provide!,
but to-night there was no need of criti
cism, for each of the dieters ato his full
allotted nuota.
The dally welghtn laucn during tne
forenoon showed that eight of tho dozen
had gained In weight on tho sclentlilc
fare. Dr. O. J. Stokes, the heavyweight
of tho experimenters, hud added 3Vi
nnunils to tho 220 he weighed yesterday.
Two showed a slight loss and two. held
their weight unchanged.
To-morrow'a menu la:
BnKAKFAHT.
Apple.
Rolled oats,
niacultand butter,
Colfee.
l.tlNCIt.
Puree of lima beam."
Salisbury steak.
Chocolate blanr mange.
fJread end butter.
Tea.
DINNER.
New England bntled dinner.
Ralaln loaf cake. ,
Cocoa. '
DERBY DUBIOUS ON PEACE.
-
flays Entente Allies Must Fight on
to Victory
London, Nov. 22. "Any peace, pro
posala from Germany will recelvo tins
H.u.MtlAn thav deserve." said the
Karl of Derby, "Under Secretary of
War, to-day In .response to an inquiry
regarding the attitude of the Entente
A'"Th'e Allies," continued Lord Derby,
"cannot entertain an Idea of peace
which does not give them what they are
lighting for. The Allies have not modi
a iY..ir tinaltlon In this respect."
urhn asked his onlnlon as to tho
Drobabte duration of the war In the light
of receni evem u
.aaI wnMlit fimnhenv. I Its
i n wtuwiinrierotanda tha tern
- - .... imh mnnlu will asree'wlth
me that they have shown no signs of
weakening, ,ou, on wii.p.,
Browing more determined 'to .continue
. . . . ...i.fartApv flonolnaton.
iH war " .---" -
On us other MQOYthe Germane appear
JACK LONDON DIES
IN CALIFORNIA CAMP
Found Unconscious in tho
Bfomingr, Succumbs at Night
to Uremia.'
WROTE OF HIS OWN LIFE
"John Barleycorn" an Auto
biography Author Was
Radical Socialist.
Santa .JtotA, Cel., Nov. 22. Jack
London, the author, died at his Glen
Elian, Cel., ranch near here at 7:45
o'clock to-night, a victim. of uremic pois
oning. London was taken 111 last night
and was found unconscious early to-day
by a servant who went to his room to
awaken him.
His condition alarmed his slates) Mrs.
Ellsa fihenard. who summoned nhvslclane
from this city. Dr. J. Wilson Bhlels seT.
San Francisco, a close friend of the
writer, came and declared the patient's
condition was serious. From, tho time
London was found this morning he did
i.ot regain consclousneta. About mid
day he seemed to rally, iiut later suf
fered a relapse and sank rapidly until
the end came. .
Besides his sister, Mrs'. Bhepard, Lon
don Is survived by a daughter, who Is
a student at the University of Cali
fornia: his mother, who lives In Oak
land, Cel., and his wife, Charmlon Lon
don. Mrs. London was with her hus
band when 'death came. London would
have bees forty-one years old on Jan
uary 12.
Mr. and Mrs. London recently re
turned from a sojourn of several months
In the Hawaiian Islands, and have been
living In their Glen Ellen ranch, one of
the most elaborately equipped In north
ern California.
Lived What He- Wrote.
Jack London was a literary modern
ist who wrote what he had lived and
lived- what he wrote. His kinship was
hardly with Kipling, nlthough the prim
itive force of his first Alaskan stories led
to the comparison. Indon wus a so
cialist of the radical sort. Ills experi
ence made him one.
Tho best account of his life Is clven
In his -own novel, "John Barleycorn."
which Is frank autobiography. "Martin
i.ucii is also largely autobiographic
Ixndon rejected the Idea that he was n
romancer, j When omn one remarked
that he most have Imagined his vivid
description of Martin Kden'a sensations
In drowning he replied that he had twice
nearly drowned himself and required no
fancies to depict what one feels.
Literary subtleties were not a Dart of
London's craftsmanship. Virility, naked,
words for naked sensations, a profound
and unlllualoned emotionalism and.
ahovo all, the power to tell it rattling
gtrod titory as It should bo told were
what brought him a wldo public, literary
lamn ami plenty or money. Horn In
1S7 in san h rnnrlsco, ho had to act out
and hustle for n living while nothing but
an adolescent boy.
He could read and write nt 5 years
and long hours of toll on a ranch at the
ago of g and 9 yearn were relieved by
perusals of Washington Irvlng's "Al
hambra" and dime novels. He left the
ranch nt 11 and went to Oakland. About
a year later he was an oyster pirate In
San Francisco Bay. He learned to work
hard every hour of the twenty-four, to
drink like n tlsh (he stood liquor well)
and to think of himself purely as a
young, healthy animal with the world to
rove In.
Nrrtril Before the Maat.
He shipped before the mast and sailed
for the Japanese roast on a heal hunt
ing expedition after irh apprenticeship
In the fouslo or a schooner. The seal
hunters Invaded the. Bering Sea and got
back after a seven months voyage to
leave London In tho lurch. He simply
could not ret work ashore. Odd Jobs
of coal shovelling und longshorlng were
followed by a term In a Juto factory
(hours. A. M. to 7 P. M.).
A year spent In the Klondike In half
starved lonellneta hunting for gold gave
him perspective. Scurvy drove him home.
On the lung sen trip he made a few notes
of what he had seen and decided In the
northern silence. He came home to And
hi father dead and the burden of a
family upon him. He went back to any
old Job and wrote, wrote, wrote.
By a lucky bit or fato he hud several
stories printed In the Atlnnlin Monthly,
which gave him standing and a market to
the work of tills young, much lived ad
venturer whom no amount or editorial
apathy could defeat. After that tlnue
was no question of shovelling coal for. a
living.
Iondon s search of experience did not
ston with the dawn of hie career as a
writer. He was a correspondent In the
Husso-Japanese war. In a ketch rigged
vacht. 42 feet on the water line, th
Snark, ho and tils wlfo sailed circles
around the Sduth Paclllc In 1907-08. Once
they were given up for lost. The Snark
had left Honolulu on octoner 7, lauj
for Tahiti, and three months afterward
the Londons had not .een heard from
In this country. They slwwed up n
January 2R, 1901, as passengers on the
Marlnosa from Tahiti. Head wincia nun
an Inclination to stop at stray ijoutli Sea
Islands explained the hiatus.
One of London's latest Journeys was
around Cape Horn. lie signed us third
mate and his wife as stewardess on
the square rigger Dlrlgo In March, 1912,
for the pasxuge from Baltimore to
Seattle.
London's books Include: "The Son of
the Wolf (1900, his first volume of
record). "The God of His Fathers'
(1901). "The Call of the Wild" (1903),
all Alaska stories; "The People of the
Abyss" (1903). whlrh explores tho Lon
don alums; "The Kempton-Wuce Let
ters" (1903), a study of sex love; "The
Sea Wolf" 1904). "White Fnng"(1907)
"Love of Life" (1907), "Martin Eden"
(1909), "Burning Dayhgnf (ltuu).
"Adventure" (1911), "Smoke Bellew"
(1912), "John Barleycorn" (19U) and
Tha star Itover" 11bI,
London lived on a pleasant ranch at
Olen Ellen, Cal. He married twice: In
1900 Miss Bessie Maddern, who divorced
him Ave years later for desertion, and,
just as soon us she had freed him, Miss
Churmlan Klttredge. His first wife was
an Oakland girl. Miss Klttredge was
,. r-hienroan. It was she who accom
panied him aboard the Snark, and later
she wrote a little story of her own of
that oya
Allies Los loa Airplanes
Berlin (by wireless), Nov. it. As
h result ofatr combats on the western
front In October, says the Overseas
Mews Asency. 102 Anglo-French air-
Dianas were lost. Of this total, 5(, of
wnlcn S7 were oriiian nu i r raicn,
fU sjnta usrman naneua r uny-iwo
Maes wage boo ana umtanu me
MOVIES ON SUNDAY
BARRED BY COURT
Appellate Division Rules Sab
bath Picture Shows Are Il
legal Exhibitions.
ONE JUSTICE DISSENTS
Interests Will Have to Appeal
Case or Close Their
Houses.
Albant, Nov. 22. Sunday moving
picture shows were branded as Illegal In
a decision handed down to-day by the
Appellate Division for the Third Depart
ment Four of the five Justices signed
the opinion, but as the fifth dissented an
appeal can be taken to the Court of Ap
peals.
It Is believed here that the large mo
tion plcturo Interests will Immediately
take steps fo appeal. If they permit
this decision to rest or If the Court of
Appeals upholds It the thousands of mo
tion picture theatres throughout the
entire State will have to close on Sun
days. The decision Is a comotete reversal of
former decisions In cases where this
matter has .come up, particularly of a
ruling of the Appellate Division of the
Second Department In 190S, In which It
was decided that the Sunday law did
not apply to moving picture theatres.
The decision to-day Is that the law does
apply to them, and that the Legislature
alone can make Sunday moving picture
exhibitions legal.
Test Case In Albany.
The
case, which has been followed
with Interest by motion picture theatre
proprietors In all parts of the State,
concerned the arrest of Leroy II. Bender,
owner of a theatre here. Bender was
arrested charged with violating a local
ordinance prohibiting Sunday exhibitions.
He was discharged on a writ of habeas
corpus granted by Justice Morschauser
of the Supreme Court, who ruled that
the Sunday exhibition was legal. Jus
tire Morschauser based his opinion on
former rulings of the Appellate Division.
Tho onlnlon handed down to-day was
written by Associate Justice George
Lyon and Is concurred in by Presiding
Justice John M. Kellogg and Associate
Justices Wesley Howard and Aaron V.
S. Cochrane. Associate Justice John
Woodward wrote the dissenting opinion.
In which he upholds tho legality of such
exhibitions.
If the existing law Is In any way
unjust or unsatisfactory," the opinion
says, "the remedy Is by application to
the legislature to modify or annul It,
not by application to the court, whose
sole duty Is to construe It and say what
the Legislature meant by passing It.
I Contention Denied,
The onlnlon recites the facts In con
nection with Bender's: nrrest and refers
to his contention that the iihrasn In the
statute, "or other sports, exercises or
shows, doea not apply to Indoor per
formances. Hegardlng this contention
the opinion sas : ,
TTic words 'or Other nubile snorts, ex
ercises or shows' are presumed to have
been used by tho legislature In their
oidinary and familiar sense und mean
ing and are to bo so understood and con
sttued. Acts relating to the observance
of the Sabbath are remedial statutes and '
arc to lie construed liberally In respect
to the mischiefs sought to be remedied.
'The vital question to be decided upon
this appeal Is: 'What did the Legislature
mean when It wrote Into the statute re
lating to the observance of Sunday, fol
lowing the prohibition against shooting,
hunting, fishing, horso racing, gaming,'
the words 'for other public sports, ex
ercises or shows'? Did It Intend to pro-
mint exhibitions in tne nature of the
ordinary moving picture nhow? It would
seem clear that the answer to that ques
tion must bo in the anirmutive.
PICTURE MEN ALARMED.
If Law Is Enforced Many Honsrs
Will Have to Close.
There was more than a flicker In film
land yesterday when the first rumor
reached Broadway that the Appellate
Division of the Supremo Court at Albany
had ruled that Sunday motion picture
performances are Illegal. Telephones
were unhooked and tho motion picture
lawyera had the buslet-t forty-flvo min
utes of the year answering the questions
of excited picture thcatro owners all
over the city.
Tho alarm of the exhibitor was some
what quieted by the assurances of the
attorney, baaed on the early reports,
thut the decision was probably local In
ItH effect and would bo confined to Al
bany. Tho managers of the principal
picture theatres were confident thut n
law closing the motion picture houses on
Sunday would bo ho unpopular that It
would not be enforced In New York, but
If tho attempt Is made to enforce the
law they will exerclso every legal means
at their command to stay I In execution
until a final declnlon is rendered by the
highest court.
Exhlbltorx said that tho closing of the
movies on Sunday would bi a. calamity
ior un ami wuuiu mean inui moro mail
half of the smaller houses, already hard
hit by the exclusion of children during
the paralysis epidemic, would havo to
go out of business. The larger houses
In Broadway might survive the shock
by giving elaborate Sunday concerts.
Police commissioner Woods last night
said: "I have no discretion In the mat
ter nt ail. Of course If it Is Illegal for
the motion pkture houses to remain open
on Sunday tlio law will be enforced. I
will take no action, however, until I have
been Informed officially to the decision."
HOLDUP HEN GET $40,900.
Force Express Co. Driver to Open
Boxes Rent tint by Banks,
Ciiattanoooa, Teiin., Nov. 22. The
sum of 140,900 was estimated to havo
been stolen from a Southern Express
company iranaier wagon in the West
ern Atlantic Railroad yards hero to
night by two men, who held up the
driver, Fred Coniellson. Tho bandits
forced him to unlock a box containing
currency, he said.
The robbery took placo In the heart of
the business district. The money was In
packages mads up for shipment from
Chattanooga names to southern cities.
Wilson Message 'to- Printer.
Washington, Nov. 22. President
Wilson's annual message to Congress
was put In final shape lale to-day and
sent to the Public Printer. It deals
almost exclusively with domeatla affairs
except In its discussion of trade rela
Ilea of the Units 8 tales with the rest
m taa arorio.
"CI 2 ' - v
MAYOR ASKS AID IN
TRAFFIC JAM FIGHT
Appeals to Fifth Avenue Mer
chants to Help Stop
Blockade.
4-TH AVE. VIADUCT SOON
Vnndcrlip and Beck Speak on
Trade Affairs Before Audi
ence of 750.
Mayor Mltchel, addressing the Fifth
Avenue Association at Its annual ban
quet In tne Waldorf-Astoria last night,
put before the members the traffic prob
lem of the thoroughfare as Titc Sun
has .been advancing It and pointed out
tho remedies In sight, relief measures
that The Sun Is accelerating. He Im
portuned the organization to keep Its
thought concentrated on plans for less
ening the congestion after the Immediate
remedies have been put In effect.
It was a distinguished assemblage
that heard him tell of the crisis which
menaces Manhattan. There wero 750
diners, representing every activity of the
town. Tho gravity of tho situation,
upon which this newspaper has put re
peated emphasis, struck deep upon his
auditors.
He congratulated tho association on
the measures It had taken to protect
the tone and traditions of the magnifi
cent thoroughfare that gives It Its name.
The cooperation of the city government
was pledged to keep Inviolate the char
acter of the avenue as it exists at pres
ent. "There is one gigantic problem that
remains for you." ho said, "a problem
which every one has called to his atten
tion every time he steps out on Fifth
avenue. I speak of the traffic problem.
"Fifth, avenue Is congested almost to
stagnation, and every month, every day
makes It worse. In the busy hours one
ran move In an automobile scarcely
faster than a man can walk.
l'ullee Delns; Best.
"I am sure one and all of you will
agree with me that the traffic policemen
are doing all that Is possible for them lo
do. They are worthy of the thanka of
you and the city. We should be proud
of them. But even their work, even the
regulations cannot end the danger.
"The fearful congestion will not be
removed until the traffic Is relieved by
other arteries. Here Is what we are
doing In that direction:
"The police are glvlngNthelr efforts to
divert through traffic to other channels.
Our endeavor is to teach through traffic
to take other avenues and leave Fifth
urmu available for local traffic.
".More Important than this Is the re
lief wo will obtain through Fourth ae
nue when the 'work nt Thirty-fourth
and Forty-second streets Is completed.
Tin- Hoard of Estimate has had a long
strugglo with this.
'The details of the work nt Thirty
fourth street now are In process of prep
aration. They shortly will romo back
to the board for dual adoption. The
Borough President h.ijh tho work can
be completed before this administration
ends.
'The viaduct at Forty-second street
ha" bee" ,heM ' because of the sub
wnya under construction. The work
there now practically Is finished and
contracts for part of the supports have
been let. The plans art In tho hands
of the Public Service Commission. There
la no reason why this viaduct cannot
be completed by this administration.
-Many Pinna Proposed,
"That Is all the prospect I can hold
out to you to-night. There hai been
many other plans proposed, but none of
them have been worked out In eulwtaii
tlal detail. Tho one thing for us to do
la to -the our Immediate consideration
to the traffic at tho points 1 have men
tioned. "I commend the problem to iou for
your nttentlon. The Board of Estimate
nnd the Committee on City Plan Is work
ing on it. These bodies. I am wire, will
be glad to have your help and advice.
"Just now Fifth avenue is the greatest
street In the world and tho most con
Rested thoroughfare,"
Three other speakers addreased the as.
soclatlon Frank A. Vanderll). president
nf the First .National Rank; James M.
iiecK, rormer Aitnrney-Uencral of tho
United Mtntcs, and Joseph P. Day. The
dinner whm prenlded over by Robert
llrlir Cooke, president of the organiza
tion, who gave way to Patrick Francis
Murphy as toiuitiiuster.
Roth Mr. Vunderlln and Mr. Heck
sounded a warning against the cruw.
Inc disaffection lietween canllnl nnd
labor. Tho former gavo his Indorsement
to the recently organized Nntloiml In
dustrial Conference. Mr. Beck's theme
was. on "Amcrh-u After the War." He
held out a glowing prospect financially,
but one nf dismal political future.
IT. N. to Br (ire at Pnrrer.
The man Is bllnift' ho said, "who
cannot sec that America will emerco
from this world wnr Incomnarablv the
richest and potentially the most power
ful nation In the world. Tho scat of
financial power Is likely to lie trans
ferred from Tnrcadnccdle street to Wall
street, nna ir we nro worthy of the Im
pcrlal destiny C at awaits us through n
prodigious worm cataclysm then It la
even possible that tho destinies of tho
world in the futuro centuries will be
Influenced us much from Washington
as from Westminster Hall. Tha effect
of this epoch making transfer of power
rrom Europe io America win be espe
cially felt In this grcut mctronolltan
city of New York.
"It Is passing strange that In the pres.
ent hour of social unrest either America
or Its metropolis, New York, should he
considering a debasing political nhiloso-
phy, recognized by tho leaders of both
great parlies, wnicii seeKs to limit work,
one of the most sacred functions of hu
manlty, to eight hours and which holds
nut as an Ideal the acquisition of the
maximum of compensation for tho mini
mum of labor.
President Is Assailed,
"When Congress and the President
surrendered last September to tho arro
gant demands of a few labor leaders
that wageH of a class should be fixed
not by mutunl contract and the law of
supply and demand hut by legislative
flat, they sowed the wind, and If I am
not greatly mistaken the American peo
pie will at no distant date reap the
whirlwind.
'The future splendor and power or
this rlty beggars description snd stag
gers Imagination. The last two years,
In which ws have seen thousands of
strangers thronging our streets, and In
J ssjlirMirjBTaaat asata satsJJKSMsjaaf jlteatafj
HUGHES CONCEDES WILSON'S
ELECTION; WISHES HIM WELL
Delayed Congratulations Sent in Telegram When
Returns From California Indicate There Is
No Chance of Republican Success.
Lakewood, N, J., November 22,
The Pretldent, White Uoute, Wathing:
ton, D, C.
Because of tho closeness of the vote
I have awaited the official count In
California, nnd now that It has been
virtually completed permit me to ex
tend to you my congratulations upon
your reelection.
I desire also to express my best
wishes for a moit successful adminis
tration. Ciiaulis K. HL'QHES.
Two weeks and one day after the elec
tion Mr. Hughes sent his message of
congratulation to his political opponent.
The delay nan almost without precedent,
but It was, as the message Implies, due
e-nly to the situation created by an elec
tion also unprecedented.
Even now It seems there Is a remote
chance that Mr, Hughes may havo been
too hasty, for after the message had
been sent last night from the Lakewood
hotel where the candidate hi resting a
despatch from Sacramento, Cal.. an
nounced that Frank C. Jordan. Secretary
of State of California, said that unless
certain mistakes and omissions discov
ered In returns of the election from Yuba
county and Orange county were cor
rected he might feel obliged to withhold
the certlllcates of election to Presidential
electors from that State.
He called upon the Democratic and
Republican committees to take Immedi
ate steps to have the mistakes corrected,
through the courts If mVcessary, so that
an evil precedent might not be estab
lished. Members of the Republican National
Committee last nlsht, however. Indi
cated that they bullded little upon this
development. It was their belief that
the technicality would be straightened
out nnd that no change sufficient lo elect
Mr. Hughes would be made.
Mr. Hughes's message was received In
the White Houso when the President
was al the theatre. It was sent to him
there, and he read It with every sign
of gratlllcatlon. despatches from Wash
ington said hut night. It was an
nounced the President would have
nothing to say until to-day, when he
probably would Issue a statement.
Soon after Mr. Hughes despatched Ills
telegram Chairman Wlllcox, In behalf of
the Republican National Committee, is
sued the following statement:
"Having conferred by telephone dur
ing the day and late this afternoon with
the Republican State committee and the
Republican National committeeman In
California, I am Informed that the of
ficial canvass of the vote has been so
nearly completed that no change will re
sult from the few precincts not counted
In the returns thus far complied. ,
Cwllfnrnln's Mnjorlty gusnclrnt.
'This means that the majority for the
Wilson electors In California ranges
from about 1,200 In 3.S0O votes and thut
NEW NAVY BASE IN
NEW YORK HARBOR
island (o Ho Iluilt in liny
South of Statue of
Liberty.
WASlttNOToNf Nov. 22. Formal an
nouncement was made at the Nay De
partment to-day that the I6.O00.O0O ap
proprlated by Congress last summer for
enlargement of navy yards will be spent
on the Boston. Philadelphia, Bremerton,
Norfolk, Charleston, S. C. and Ports
mouth, N. II., plants.
The Norfolk nnd Philadelphia yards
have been selected for equipment with
slips for tho construction of capital
ships; the Boston and Bremerton yards
will be enlarged to build and repair ves
sels of up to ten or twelve thousand
tons, nnd those nt Charleston nnd Ports,
mouth will be fitted for handling gun
boats, destroyers, submarines and other
smaller craft. When work at the Nor
folk and Philadelphia yards Is com
pleted the hay will hae four plants
prepared to turn out battleships. Thn
New York and Miiro island plants al
icady are so equipped.
The (i,0nn,0Qti available Immediately
represents only a small part of the money
to Iw spent ultimately In developing and
enlarging the navy's shoro stations.
Some Idea of the scale of the Govern
ment's programme wa given the House
Naval Committee to-day by Rear Ad
miral Harris, chief of the Bureau of
Ynrds and Docks. It Is known that one
of the projects whlrh the board already
has discussed contemplates a separation
of the military and Industrial activities
at the New York and Maro Island yards
and the virtual rebuilding of the Norfolk
plant.
Tho tentative scheme for New York,
It Is understood, contemplates tho sepa
ration of all activities directly connected
with the lleet from tho present yard and
the establishment of a fleet base, with
proper store house, docking and repair
facilities, on an island to te created jtisi
south of tho Statue of Liberty In the
lower harbor. The old yard probably
would be continued purely as nn Indus
trial plant.
A similar plan Is proposed for Mare
Island, a fleet base being established In
San Francisco Bay, while the present
yard, with ItH expensive cqupltncnt,
would be continued for construction and
repairs. The project calls for an ex
penditure of $25,000,000 on the new base.
The project for ine isorroig yard al
ready Ik under way, and of $15,000,000
required to complete It nnrly one-third
has been supplied already. In this con
nection Admiral Harris said that the
Department was considering the purchase
of the Jamestown Exposition tract for
the establishment of new aviation and
submarine training schools.
Discussing the probable cost of com
pletely equipping additional navy yards
for capital ship building, tho Admiral
said It would take $10,000,000 to $12,.
000,000 to fully equip the Norfolk, Brem
erton and Philadelphia yards.
Three Newspapers Advance Prices.
Johnstown, Pa., Nov. 22. Announce,
ment was made to-day by three local
dally newspapers that their price would
be Increased to 2 cents on December 1,
owing to the high coat of print paper.
The newspapers are the Tribune, the
Leader and the Democrat.
a
PINKMURRT HOTKXB A MB OOLF I.INM
aowepes. ls.leabeardaJrUBe,lllltrwsy.
-ASV.
t
this Is the final result of the canvass
for which we have been waiting. So far
as any recount It concerned, the National
Committee Is not advised that there are
sufficient grounds which would call for
such an application."
Following la the statement Issued by
Mr. Jordan, the California Secretary of
State, concerning the situation:
"Under the provisions of section 1313
of tho political code. It Is the duty of
the Secretary of State to compare and
estimate the votes given for electors.
Such comparison and estimate Is to be
made as soon as leturns are received
from all the counties in the State.
. "In Marysvllte precinct No. 3 twelve
Democratic electors are credited with (6
votes each, but the votes received by
Loren A. Handley, Democratic elector,
have not been credited because the elec
tion clerks failed to include the vote In
their returns to the supervisors, tho su
pervisors could not ascertain such vote
and therefore the County Clerk was un
able to Include it In the returns to this
office. The returns from this county arc
Incomplete.
"In the county of Orange a more
glaring case of disfranchisement Is pic
sented. All the voters of Orangethorpo
precinct havebecn denied an expression
of their wishes as Indicated by their
votes. Because the tally lists are In the
sealed envelopes containing the ballot
the Board of Supervisors could not
ascertain the vote In that precinct, and
the returns certified to this office are npt
complete because of such omission.
"If these mistakes are not corrected,
If these pnrtlal returns are to be ac
cepted. If the will of tho voters of these
precincts Is to be disregarded, even the
vote of one elector, why cannot other
mistakes be permitted to occur In other
counties and precincts and thus the will
of the voters be thwarted nnd confusion
result?
"It Is the duty of the Democratic and
Republican State central committees to
take Immediate stens lo have theso mis
takes corrected, even If the aid of the
courts must bo Invoked : otherwise tho
Secretary of State may deem It his duty
to withhold certificates of election to
Presidential electors In order that an
evil precedent may not be established.
All Votes Must II r Returned.
In order to straighten the legal tan
gle that has arisen over the election
returns from Yuba and orange coun
ties the Superior Courts of those coun
ties must order the ballot boxes re
onened and the count rendered complete,
In the onlnlon of James Cremln. State
statistician, who has charge of the offi
cial election ranvass.
At the office of Attorney-General
Webb the unofficial opinion was voiced
that the Secretary of State could not
certify to the returns for the Sute un
less the vote of every precinct was
found correct In the official canvass.
GAS WORKERS' PAY
RAISED $1,000,000
Consolidntoil nnd Affiliated
Corporations Adopt Profit
Sharing: Plan.
In line with other largo corporations
which recently granted bonuses nnd
wage Increases to their employees, the
Consolidated Oas Company and Its af
filiated gas and electric concerns last
night announced the adoption of a profit
sharing plan which will mean an addi
tion of $1,000,000 a year to be paid to
employees.
The companies, which Include the New
York Edison and corporations In
Yonkers, Westchester, northern West
ihesfer, Queetm ami The Bronx, will
grant a percentage on their salary or
wagen to all employees, except members
of the adtnlnlstratUe and executive
staffs, who receive not more than $3,000
u year. The proportion la to equal the
dividend rate paid to the stockholders
of the Consolidated Gas Company, who
receive at present a dividend of 7 per
cent, a year, paid quarterly.
This plan will tako In about 17.000
employees. The first payment will be
made in time for Christmas shopping, on
December If., to nil emvloccj) who on
November 30, llilfi, had been six months
or more In the service of the companies.
As In the case of stockholders' divi
dends, payment will bo made by check.
Concerning the profit shining an execu
tive officer of the Consolidated Gas Com
pany made this statement;
"It Ih Increasingly recuRiilzed that
profit nhnrlng In soma form promises
more than uriythlng else to sdlmuMte the
Interest of employees In tho success of
tho undertakings wllll which they are
Identified. ThlH relationship tends es
pecially to promote Individual and col
lective effort and a better spirit of co
operation In the various departments! of
the complex organizations now required
by tho larger public utility corporations
to -slve satisfactory service. Feeling on
the part of nn employee nn Immediate
personal Interest by having a direct part
In the reults tendn perhaps more In
thli thnn In any other way to secure and
maintain that standard of excellence so
essential In the conduct of the utility
wnich seeks the highest attainable Ideals
In the puhllo service.
MORE PAY INCREASES.
Mteel Concerns Annnnnre Increase
of 10 Per Cent.
Chicago. N'nv. 5! v..i.i mi,...
panics are following the lead of tho
unnen niaies rsicei corporation in ad
vancing wages to meet the high cost of
living, Tho Brier Hill Steel Company
of Youngstown, Ohio, employing 11,000
men, announced a 10 per cent, increase
to-day, and the Youngstown Sheet and
Tube Company, with 10,000 employees,
Is expected to grant n similar ndvanre.
President It. C. Kirk of the I.abelle Iron
Works, Stcuhenvlllc, Ohio, announced n
10 per cent. Increase In jwy to Its 3,000
employees beginning December 15,
The Long-Bell Lumber Company of
Kansas City has decided to grant an
Increase, an HI to amount to $250,000 an
nually, to laborers In Its nine plants In
Missouri, Arkansas, Louisiana and
Texas.
flESA BKAK nrsUNO WATKK.
lie. the esse et eta glass sMpsefed settle
TEUTON TRAP IS
FAST GRIPPING
J
THE RUMANIANS
a , hi .
Defence Is Crumbling Un
dcr Swift Blows of Von
Falkenhayn. '
BUCHAREST SILENT
OX MILITARY CRISIS
Berlin Says Invasion Is Pro
gressing Near Orsova and
in Jiu Valley.
BERTIIELOT ONLY
HOPE OF ENTENTE
Joffrc's Right Hand Man in
Full Charge of King Fer
dinand's Armies.
London, Nov. 22. Rumnnlnn r2
slstanco In tho whole of western
Wallachla Is crumbling. The worst
that was feared for tho array nt Or.
Hova seems about to bo realized, while
tho army In the Jiu Valley appears
to be Inextricably Involved In the
meshes of Von Fulkcnhayn's swiftly
spun web. Tho nrmy In the Alt Vulley,
la falling back.
"Near Orsova We nro progressing,"
Is the laconic bulletin Issued to-night
by tho German War Office. It Is h
llcved Ihla means, disaster for tho tu
manlan nrmy across the western bor
der in Hungary, nt the Iron Gates of
the Danube.
"In the Jiu valley the Rumanian
troops, under pressure from the enemy.
nre retiring toward Craiova, says a
Russian official statement received here)
to-day. The Germans announced yes.
terday the capture of Craiova In
whirlwind Advance.
"On the Red Tower pass road and in
the valleys leading Into tho Alt River
Valley ground wiih gained In engage
ments." adds tho German statement. Tha
Austrian statement rays: "On both
sides of tho Alt River tho Rumanians
withdrew further."
The Rumanian War Olllco Issued no
official rtatement to-day. The last was
Issued three days ago. The German War
Office, on the other hand, has added a
nightly bulletin to its regular dally re
port. Tho contrast Is considered u sure
Indication that Rumanian military tor
tunes lire at a crltls.
All eyes are turned to Gen. Barthclot,
tho Ficnch strategist who took charge
nf the defence of Rumania a llttlo over
a month ago. He planned with Gen.
.loffre tho retreat from Mons, which
looked nt the tlmn almost as disastrous
as docs that of the Rumanians now, hut
ended gloriously at tho Maine. Tho
question on every lip Is, Can he do It In
Rumania?
Ilniuonla Ontclnaacil,
Completely outmanoeuvred by Von
Falkenhayn, the Rumanian peasant sol
diers, with only three months experi
ence in war, until very recently but HI
equipped with artillery, ammunition and
many other requisites of modern war
fare, seem hopelessly outclassed. Un
able because of poor aviation service to
guard against sweeping encircling move
ments, they seem doomed to a tremen
dous defeat.
From to-day's official and unofficial
news it appears that, using Craiova as
a base. Von Falkenhayn already has
lushed troops west on the railroad seventy-five
miles toward Verclorova, In
the rear in tho Rumanian army at Or
sova. Cooperating with this nrmy, the
Austro. Hungarian army that lias long
fuced the Rumanians at Orsova Is ready
to strike.
The Rumanian army In the Jiu Val
ley, with which nro some Russian
troop, Is believed to be badly disorgan
ized. So rapid and so heavy were
the blows struck agalnn this force that
It Is hardly believed that a strong re
sistance can be offered, Even were
the army compact and Its morale unim
paired, the Teutons hold such advan
tageous positions that an effective re
sistance Is scarcely possible.
f'rnlnvn Taken In Dash.
Craiova was taken by a sudden con
verging attaolt, delivered with great
fury on troops already beaten. It ap
pears from Berlin accounts. As Infantry
which had been advancing down tho
Jiu Valley entered from tho north, the
cavalry of tho Empress's own cuiras
siers, which dashed down the Motru
Vulley ami cut tho railroad, entered
from the west,
For the Allies tho one bright spot
seems to he that ns yet thero have been
no announcements of prlsoncis taken In
tho battle. This Is taken to lndlcnte
that tho KumntiMn armies have thua far
escaped Intact ami have lost nn guns or
ammunition. l-urtlier advices are
awaited with nnxlety, Intensified by the
silence of tho Rumanian War Office,
The German statement to-day follows;
North of Klmpolung fruitless at
tacks by the Rumanians upon the Ger-man-Austro-Hungiirlaii
front wero re
peated, On tho Rothcnthiirm Pass road and
In the valleys leading Into tho Alt
River Valley ground was gained In en
gagements. Speedily breaking the re
sistance of tho defeated enemy by u
Iwyonet attack and u thrust, West
Prussian and East Prussian Infantry
entered Craiova from the north and
squadrons of Her Majesty's CulrasMer
Regiment from the west as the first
German troops.
osnbsrdments on Danube.
Front of Field Marshal von Mack
ensen (Dohrudja) 'Near tho coast
there waa an outpost engagement. On
the Danube there were local artillery
bombardments.
The Austrian official statement fol
lows:
Craiova was taken after at' short
Hi
HI
I
i
1
I
I
,1
i?it
4
3
w
ft
it
1
