Fergus County Democrat
VOL. XIII., NO. 8
LEWISTOWN, FERGUS COUNTY. MONTANA. NOVEMBER 23. 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS
GERMAi*;
VICTORY
General Falkenhayn at
Last Tells of Defeat
of Rumanians.
' ,br &U
ALL THE WAR NEWS
Aside From Western Rumania Few
Changes of Great importance Have
Taken Place on Any of the Battle
fronts—In the Wallachian Region of
Rumania the Austro-Germans Every
where Are Keeping Up their Pres
sure Against the Rumanians—The
Turks Repulsed in Persia With
Heavy Losses.
BERLIN, Nov. 21.— (By wireless to
Sayville Nov. 22.)—After a long
silence imposed by the direct wish of
General Falkenhayn who did not wish
to have any hopes raised by premature
accounts of his operations, descrip
tions of tlie momentous victory of the
Teutonic forces in the battle of Tir
Kuiiulij, which broke the resistance of
the Russo-Rumanian armies in west
ern Wallachia and opened the way to
tlie Rumanian plain, are now avail
able. The battle was fought from No
vember 15 to 17 after the German and
Austro-Hungarian forces, in a week of
steady combats, had forced their way
from the summits of tlie mountains
on the Rumunian-Transylvanian fron
tier to tlie foot of tlie Alpine regions,
mastering the armored turrets of tlie
permanent frontier fortifications with
big mortars and breaking the Ruman
ian resistance wherever it was en
countered.
Ejected from tlie wild, mountainous
regions to the rolling foothills beyond,
the Rumanians, who by now had re
eeived heavy Russian reinforcements,
elected to stand on the range of hills
running cast and west and lying south
of Tirgujiulij. tlie first important town
south of the mountain. Tlie position
was naturally strong and a heavy fog
enabled the Rumanians to take up
their positions unmolested by the pur
suers.
Tlie German and Austro-Hungarian
lories attacked them with fervor and
alter three days of heaviest fighting,
crushed their way by frontal attacks
through tlie middle of the Rumanian
11.' -(ito.*i till Jiul to the File*'.
The Rumanian losses in the battle arc
described as very heavy.
The German cavalry iind been held
in readiness behind the line and the
squadrons now poured through the
breach and raced down through tlie
valley towards the railway 30 miles i
away driving before them the ffeoing j
Russians and Rumanians and break-!
ing tlie efforts at resistance of all hut
tlie strongest units which still held to- j
gather. These were hustled on liv;
pursuing infantry columns which, like j
tlie cavalry, made all possible speed '
to utilize their advantage. j
So rapid and unrelenting was the!
pursuit that oil November 10 the eav-j
airy had reached tlie Orsova-Craiova j
railroad lino oa a breadth of 12 miles j
from Strohaia station to Filliash. an I
important railroad junction where the I
line running north toward the tnoun- I
tain iiasses branches from tlie main
Bucharest line. The pursuing forces i
of General Falkenhayn continued to|
sweep like a Mood down the valley and ;
' now have reached a point just outside ,
of Orsova. one of tlie important towns
of Rumania !
ASSOCIATED PRESS RESUMT.
Aside froiu western Rumania few
changes of great importance have tak
en place on any of the battle trouts.
In the Somme region of France, the i
armies of both sides are almost iliac- |
live, except for the artillery wings, |
which are bombarding intermittently |
mi various sectors. Skirmishes and
artillery duels continue on both tlie j
Aiistm-ltaliaii and Russian fronts.
in tlie Waalacliian region of Ru
mania tlie Austrians and Germans
everywhere are keeping up their pres
sure against the Rumanians, and there
have been forthcoming no dispatches
either official or unofficial, which
would indicate that the perilous posi
tion of tlie Rumanians lias been amel
iorated. Petrograd reports that in the
■Mill valley the Rumanians are still in
retreat towards Graiova, but this re
portqirobably antedates the announce
ment of the Germans and Austrians
of the capture of this railroad junction
by forces of the centval powers. A
retreat upon Craiova would surely
throw the Rumanians into the hands
of their antagonists.
SINKING OF THE HOSPITAL SHIP IS
DESCRIBED BY CORRESPONDENT
LONDON, Nov. 23.— (3:25 a. m.i —
The Daily News' Athens correspond
ent sends the following concerning the
sinking of the Britannic:
"Tlie Britannic was torpedoed at 8
o'clock in the morning and sank near
shore 55 minutes later. She was go
ing to Siiloniki, but had no wounded
on Foard.
"Her complement included 121
nurses and 390 officers and men of the
army medical corps. Twenty-live of
the injured from tlie steamer are now
in the Russian hospital, while others
are aboard allied warships.
"The islanders of Zea saw the ves
sel sinking mid the victims struggling
in the waves and promptly responded
,
j
i
°*"n
&U ,
FIRST ANNUAL MEETING OF COM
MERCIAL CLUB SECRETARIES
OF THE STATE.
a: im .
MANY INTERESTING ADDRESSES
At 6 o'clock last evening there end
ed the first meeting of the Montana
Association of Commercial Club Sec
retaries. This organization was
formed at the last meeting of tlie
Good Roads convention in Anaconda.
A few of the visiting commercial
club men got together for tlie purpose
of an exchange of ideas, and it result
ed in the forming of the association,
which yesterday finished one of tlie
most interesting meetings of the kind
ever held in the state, in fact, the
first event of its kind in the state of
Montana.
There are in Montana but twenty
or twenty-five paid secretaries, and
while tlie men in this work not draw
ing salaries were invited, it was to
be expected that the majority who
would attend the meetings would be
the paid men. it was exceedingly
gratifying to the executive members
of tlie association to have fifteen men
present, all filled with enthusiasm.
A program of intense interest to
these civic workers had been pre
pared, and with one of two exceptions
was followed out in detail with round
table talks after each subject had
been dealt with. The only persons
who did not appear on the list as
scheduled was Secretary Austin of
Butte and E. C. Leedy of St. Paul,
immigration agent for the Great
Northern. Mr. Leedy was to have
been here and is in the west, but
for reasons explained in a telegram
was unable to be present, it is to
be Imped that lie will be present at
tlie future meetings, for undoubtedly
the immigration agent of any big rail
road is directly interested in tlie
work of a constructive chamber of
commerce or commercial club.
The Program.
The program in detail was as fol
lows:
Address of welcome, W. J. Johnson,
president Lewistown chamber; "The
Reason Why We Formed the Organ
ization," H. M. Robinson, Roundup,
president M. O. of C. C. S.; "The
Value of Getting Together," P. N.
Bernard, Kali spell; "The Commercial
Club's Position in City Affairs," C. W.
Fowler, Billings; "Co-operation Be
[•'Mn liiimig-'a.Uon Agents and Com
ercial Secretaries," J. H. Ginet, Spo
kane, immigration agent Milwaukee
system; "A Stato Chamber of Com
merce and its Relation to the Develop
ment of the State," A. J. Harader,
Bozeman; "Methods of Financing a
State Chamber of Commerce," S. C.
Moore, Glasgow; "Publicity, the Sort
That Attracts the Settlor," A. J. Breit
enstein, Great Falls; "Commercial
Clubs' Relation to Country Business
Men. Not the Small Town Store Man,
But tlie Fanner," T. E. McCroskey,
Ha vre.
The vital reason of tlie forming of
this organization is to standardize
commercial clubs in every town in
Montana, not only tlie larger • towns
but in tlie smaller towns where tlie
secretary does not receive a salary,
but whose interest is just as great us
his paid brother.
Every talker handled his subject
concisely and brought out ideas that
started discussion that would have
been endless if the chairman would
have allowed it.
Address on Publicity.
Perhaps tlie paper by Mr. Breitcn
stein of Great Falls on "Publicity"
was tlie best paper on that subject
that lias ever been presented to a
commercial club secretary, and he
started trains of thought about the
way in which a commercial club man
should get the attention of the people
directed toward his town, that will
bring about great good for every com
inanity represented. Mr. Breitenstein
is a past master at the publicity game
and knows it from tilt- angle of the
commercial dub about as well as any
man in tlie state in this work.
J. H. Ginet, representing tlie Mil
waukee road, talked most interesting
ly on tlie relation of the commercial
club secretary to tlie immigration
agent, and from him came an informal
talk that put pep into every man there.
Mr. Ginet, in a manner all his own,
was able to show that tlie commercial
club secretary and the immigration
agent were both working for the same
results, namely, "tonnage," and rela
tion was so marked that undoubtedly
every town represented will find itself
(Continued on Page Eight.)
to the appeals for help and an Anglo
French squadron from Piraeus, com-1
prised of destrovers and auxiliaries. |
immediately went to tlie scene. !
"Tlie injuries of some of those on ;
board are very severe, especially tlie j
occupants of two boats which were j
caught by tlie propellers of tlie steam- !
er. The women of Zea tore up their
clothing to bandage the injured.
"The Britannic had 3.000 beds which
tiad been prepared for the reception of
sick and wounded an hour prior to
the torpedoing."
The smallness of flit- loss of life on
hoard the Britannic is believed here
(Continued on Page Eight.)
EMPEROR FRANCIS JOSEPH DEAD
Aged Monarch Had Occupied the Throne During a Period
of Sixty-Eight Years, the Longest Reign Known in the
History of the World—His Life Filled With Sadness.
LONDON, Nov. 22—(3:41 p. m.)— Emperor Francis Joseph died last night at 9 o'clock at Sc Ihhmi
brunn castle, according to a Reuter dispatch from Vienna bv way of Amsterdam. 1 lie fust intimation
received here that Emperor Francis Joseph s health was again the subject of solicitation was contained
in a dispatch dated Nov. 12, emanating from a Vienna news agency, which reported that the emperor
had been suffering for some days from a slight catarrhal affection. Subsequent reports from various
sources, more or less conflicting, represented that his condition was becoming worse, hut none of them
indicated that his illness threatened to reach a critical state and from Vienna came assurances that he was
still able to give audiences to one or more ministers daily. What gave credence to the suspicion
that his condition was much graver than the official bulletins indicated was the report, which still lacks
official confirmation, that it had been decided to associate the heir to the throne. Archduke ( harles Fran
cis, in the government of the country and that he was to assume the position Dec. 2, on the sixty-eight't
anniversary of the emperor's ascension to tlie throne. So far as is known here Archduke Charles is still
at the front in command of the army. Archduke Charles I - rancis, grand nephew of Emperor Francis Jos
eph , became heir to the throne of Austria-Hungary hv the assassination ol Archduke Francis Ferdinand
prior to the outbreak of the war. He has been in command of the Austrian armies on various fronts
during the past two years. Archduke Charles was born Aug. 17, 1887. His wife was Princess Zita of
the Bourbon house of Parma. His fat Her was the younger brother of Francis Ferdinand.
----
WASHINGTON, Nov. 22. President
Wilson today sent tlie following mes
sage of condolence to Emperor Karl
Franz-.Iosepli of Austria-Hungary, up
oil receipt of word of the death of the
late emperor Francis Joseph:
"I beg of your majesty and the ini
perial and royal family to accept the
sineerest sympathy of Mrs. Wilson
and myself in the groat loss which
you have sustained in the death of
your illustrious uncle for whom 1 en
tertain sentiments of high esteom and
regard. I also extend to your majesty
the condolences of the government
and people of the United States and
convey to you my best wishes for
your personal well being and pros
perity."
The president addressed tiie now
ruler as "His Majesty Karl Franz
Joseph, Emperor of Austria, King of
Bohemia and Apostolic King of Hun
gary.''
At the same time Secretary Lnn
sing instructed Ambassador Penfiohl
at Vienna to extend on behalf of tlie
president, government and people of
the United States, condolences to tlie
people of the dual monarchy on the
deatli of "their late venerable em
peror and king," and also to express
to tlie minister of foreign affairs the
personal sympathy of Mr. Lansing.
END WAS PEACEFUL.
VIENNA, Nov. 22. (12:30 p. in.,
via London 10:35 p. m.—The deatli of
Emperor Francis Joseph last night
occurred at 9:05 o'clock. Tlie end
was peaceful, the aged monarch pass
ing away as though sinking into sleep.
Among those in the death chamber
at Schoenbrunn Castle was the heir
apparent, Archduke Charles Francis
Joseph.
Shortly after mid-day there was an
appreciable rise in tlie emperor's tem
perature. Although tlie emperor had
been about early to attend to state
duties and had eaten a light meal, it
was evident after 2 o'clock that a
crisis was approaching. About G
o'clock in the evening, tlie emperor
AUTO ACCIDENT
MILWAUKEE ENGINEER CAUGHT
BV CAR AND IS CRUSHED |
AGAINST BUILDING. |
---- j
HOFFMAN, VICTIM, WILL RECOVER
A frightful automobile accident that
came near costing Peter Hoffman, a
Milwaukee switch engineer, his life,
occurred about 4 o'clock Tuesday af
ternoon when a Ford car, driven by
Miss Bean, daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Dan Bean, swept around in a half
circle at the Empire bank corner, in
tersection of Main street and Fourth
avenue, and caught Mr. Hoffman, who
was chatting with a friend, carrying
him swiftly against the brick wall of
the building and crushing him ter
ribly. It seems that Miss Bean was
being, advised in regard to the car
by Joseph Leedy, a professional chauf
feur and machinist. He was in the
front seat with Miss Bean and Dan
Bean, her father, was riding in the
rear seat. At tlie corner of Fourth
avenue, Miss Bean tried to swing out
of the way of some careless individ
ual and that started the car upon its
destructive sweep. The girl niomeii
tarily lost control and to make a hail
matter worse, Mr. tx-edy readied out
and grabbed tlie wheel and both were
tugging at it.
Mr. Huffman was talking with a
friend near the curt) and was totally
unaware of his danger, his back be
ing to the car, until the swiftly mov
ing auto struck him, the guard bend
ing him over. Instantly he was car
ried in front of the car as it struck tin*
iron post supporting the iron railing
around tlie entrance to the Empire bar
ber shop. This did not seem to check
tlie car at all, the post being snapped
off while the auto jumped forward a
couple of feet until it struck the
wall of the building.
Jeff Sherman was one of those
standing almost in front of the car,
and as it came to a stop against the
brick wall, he heard Hoffman groan.
Mr. Sherman and others immediately
took the injured man out. Hoffman
was unconscious, bleeding from mi
(Continued on Page Five.)
lapsed slowly into unconsciousness.
Tlie emperor luid been suffering from
a bronchial inflammation, hut pneii
moiiiti developed and suddenly reside
ed a critical stage, and from G o'clock
on the chances of the patient surviv
ing grew slimmer. Baron Biirian, who,;
in addition to being foreign minister,
is also minister of the imperial and
royal household, was summoned. He
left the sick chamber a little after S
LAW HELD
INVALID
Federal Judge Hook De
cides on the Adamson
Eight-Hour Law.
HIS DECISION HASTY
In Holding That Law Is Unconstltu-,
tional, Judge Makes It Plain That
His Decision Is Not Based on Ma
ture Consideration of Merits of the
_ „ . _ _ , , .
Case, But on Expediency Desired by
All Parties at Interest Because of
Necessity of Final Decision of U. S.
Court Before January I Next When
, _
Law Goes Into Effect.
KANSAS CITY, Mo., Nov. 22. -
Judge William C. hook, in the United
States district court here, held tlie
Adamson eight-hour law unconstitu
tional today, but made it plain that
his decision was not based on mature
consideration of the merits of the case
but oil expediency desired by nil par
ties at interest because of the necces
sity of a final decision by the su
preine court of the United States be-1
fore January 1 next wiien the law goes
into effect.
The legal moves in tlie process of
consigning the problem direct to the^
highest court of the land were some
what involved from the lay pointy, of.
viow, but tlie lawyers concerned
rushed matters through wltii a speed
seldom witnessed in courts of law.,
ly guarded secret until ivostcrday
when Frank. Hagennuu, retained as
special counsel to represent' the fed
eral government ill the Ad^iuson law
cases, suddenly set the hall rolling
by asking Judge Hook'by instruct the
receiver for the Misktfuri, Oklahoma
&■ Gulf railroad, complainant in an
Adamson law injunction suit, to join
with the defendant In proceedings
which would consj'gn the case on its
merits to the supreme court. Today
these events transpired in court by
agreement: '
1. Counsel for the receivers asked
that their bill/ for an injunction be
granted and tlie Adamson law be de
clared null and void.
2. Mr. Hagermau. for tho govern
ment, asked tlie court to dismiss tlie
bill and to declare tlie law unconsti
tutional.
3. Tlie court overruled Mr. Hager
man and declared the law invalid.
4. Preparation of a transcript of
I he evidence for presentation to the
supreme court was begun and it was
expected that tlie mails would deposit
copies in Washington by Saturday.
5. Counsel for the receivers were
instructed to notify counsel for all
railroads of the moves made here and
to invite them to join ip tlie case be
fore tbo supremo court.
Tlie present ease, in the view of
Mr. Hagermau, provides all of the
factors necessary for a test case, but
it was said by James Dunlap, of tlie
legal staff of the Aatcliison, Topeka
& Santa Fe. that among lawyers there
is some difference of opinion on this
point. He said that in some quarters
it was thought that perhaps one or
two additional test cases should be
brought to afford a wider range of
inquiry and analysis. The Missouri,
Oklahoma & Gulf railroad is in the
hands of a receiver and the receiver
eould do only as directed by Judge
Hook, who lias tlie final say in the
(Continued on Page Eight.)
j
1
■lock hut hardly had reached his of
•e when the death of the emperor
is announced.
The death of Francis Joseph was
known to hut few people in Vienna
last night, but rumors which had
been in circulation during the day
cast a gloom over the city.
Comment in Hie newspapers voiced
regret that the emperor had not been
spared long enough to see the end of
the war, which, according to the nr
eepted view here, nobody regretted
more than he, as he never lired of as
suring Ills intimates.
With Emperor Franeis Joseph passes
the world's oldest monari-li, a man
who life was one eontliiiions tragedy,
wliirli was to end in tile greatest trag
rdy of all time the present war.
Franeis Joseph was really beloved l>\
Ills people, who comprised half a
j score oi ruees. They found in him
j the cement w hich held together, the
state structm/* of Austria-Hungary.
To tlie ve/y last the emperor, who
had no conception of the value of
I money, spent prodigious sinus in char
ity, never overlooking many of the
old men and women- who used to come
to Sohoenbriinn park to receive alms.
Despite his tendency to spend lavish
ly the emperor was exceedingly pain
staking In making it note of alms, for
instance, on any scrap of paper lie
had about him. He was in the con
, slant company in later years of u little
group of old friends, who addressed
fu nil Marly
The emperor had a prodigious ea
pacity for work, rising generally at 1
k ,h, ' hiorning uni taking up
| various reports. During the progress
of th( , war , ook tho k „. H , | n „. r( , K ,
in the fortunes of bis own and the ill
lies armies with never tiring zeal, lie
int
t,ed ' lr , f ; d " i,K !1 **lK».|»|>»lnt
meni that lie was not allowed by run
son of his age and the solicitation of
his entourage to I.....I ills troops him
self.
Till* heir apparent, Archduke Charles
Francis Joseph, assumed the guidance
(Continued on Page Six.)
i
]
i -----
TWO MEN ENTER PLEAS OF
> GUILTY AND ARE SENTENCED
I JUDGE ROY AYERS.
~ —
1 SEVERAL DIVORCES ARE GRANTED
<\ E. Lewis and L. F. ISuiiho, arrest
ed recently on a charge of gambling,
yesterday pleaded guilty in the dislrii-l
court. Judge Roy Ayers imposed fim-s
of itliin iii each case itnl sent.•need
tlie defendants to 100 dai s ea< li In the
county Jail,
Dml Itowe, charged with n Maloti ry
assault, entered a plan of noi guilty
ami will be tried at tlie coming term
of court.
Divorces Granted.
A divorce lias been granted in the
ease of Agnes Itodeuli.ivep against
Bruce Rodenliaven, the conviction of
the defendant of a felony hern seme
time ago being the ground for the
decree. The parties were married at
Rimliey, Alberta, Can., hi 1911. The
plaintiff was represented hv .fct'auley
Baker of Denton.
Jennie Mi-serve has been granted a
divorce from Henry O. Meserve on the
ground of failure to provide. The par
ites were married at Mount Sterling,
III., in 1916. Homer Gles and E. K.
('beadle represented Mrs. Meserve.
Frieda I'loof was yesterday granted
a divorce from J. Itals Ploof, failure
to provide being proved. The parties
were married at Lewistown in March,
1915 .
Seeks a Decree.
Etta M. Barbee has brought suit
against M. L. Barbee to secure a
divorce, alleging desertion. The par
ties were married at Roy In February,
1915. The plaintiff asks for the res
toration of her maiden name, Etta
M. Field.
New Suits.
The Farmers' Elevator company of
Moore bus brought suit against ('. K.
Phillips to recover $326. O M. Ul
: sailer represents the plaintiff.
' F. A. Saunders has brought suit
against .1. A. Hruska and others to re
mover $655. Oscar M. ITsuker is the
! attorney for Mr. Saunders.
The Fergus County Hardware com
pany has brought suit against J. H.
Savllle to recover $293. McConochie
, & Williams represent the plaintiff.
CITY OFFICERS
REPRESENTATIVES OF OVER 20
MONTANA MUNICIPALITIES
MEET HERE.
A. C. BIRKLAHO MAKES AN ADDRESS
The sixth annual convention of the
Montana Municipal League convened
at the city hail Monday morning anil
three sessions marked the opening
(lay, the proceedings at each one being
very Interesting, allhough the matters
discussed were of a nature in which
those having- to do with tlie city ad
ministration are childly concerned.
Morning Session.
The attendance at the morning sen
sion whs not very large, but much In
terest was shown in the proceedings.
In the absence of Mayor Mltcholl of
Hardin, president of the league, Mayor
Synnnes assumed the chair, us vice
president, and briefly outlined the
work before the delegates, cordially
welcoming them to Lewistown.
11. L. Fitton of Lewistown was
elected temporary secretary in the
absence of E. H .ludd.
Tlie chairman was instructed to up
point a committee to draft resolutions
upon tlie death of the late Mayor Luce
of Bozeman.
Mayor Hyalines recommended that
the league should make an effort to
have the legislature puss suitable
measures relating to auto truffle and
police regulations. It was decided that
tills importunl matter should lie taken
up Inter by the legislative committee.
Mayor HyinmoH then turned the
chair over (o Mayor Spogen of Bolt,
who said I lie eltles did not seem to
bold with tlie courts, I lie decisions gen
erally being against the munlclpiill
lies. This had resulted greatly in re
ducing the revenue of (its town.
City Attorney Kreiuer of Hozeiniin
was appointed to take the place of
the late Mayor Luce upon all cnmmlt
tces.
Robert Leavens, former mayor of
Billings, was placed on tin* committee
on legislation and park playgrounds,
important Suggestion.
Mayor Hymines moved that. Gov. H.
V. .Stewart lie requested to Impress
upon tlie minds of the legislators In
Ills annual message the necessity for
a redraft of the laws relating to
municipal Improvement districts and
licenses for revenues.
The mol ion enrried and Mr. Hyiumes
was appointed as chairman of such
committee.
Mayor A. L. Mitchell of Hardin was
present at the opening of t.hc after
noon session and prosidi*d. W. B.
Hands ol Chinook was to have read
n paper on "Taxation and Assess
nieiit," but was not present, and the
time wiis devoted to a general discus
sion of Ibis subject. The feature of
the session was an address by II. L.
DeKalb former city attorney of Lew
islown and one of (be original mem
bers of Hie league, on "Judicial Decis
ions." It was a most instructive pre
sentation of the subject, the speaker
beginning wtlli a summary of the Ills
lory of municipal corporations and the
growth of municipal government.
Modern cities had so much to do with
sanitation, health and the general ex
ercise of police powers that judicial
decisions became of more and more
importance to them. The speaker con
lined his discussion closely to decis
ions affecting the police powers. The
statutory charter of Montana was
viewed and Its comprehensiveness
pointed out. The principal difficulty of
Montana cities was In regard to lluan
clal questions and this led to a dis
cussion of tho general subject of mu
nicipal indebtedness. In illustrating
the various plumes of Ills subject, Mr.
DcKalli reviewed a number of Mod
tana decisions at more or less length,
among these liulng City of Helena
aguinst Kent; John against Great
Falls; Arnold against Miles City;
I'aliner against City of Helena; Hel
ena Waterworks company aguinst City
of Helena.
The address of Mr. DeKalb was fol
lowed by an interesting general ills
cussion that lasted until 5 o'clock,
when adjournment was taken until
evening.
j EVENING SESSION.
At the evening session. City Attor
| ney Edward Korskey of Helena gave
nil address on "Needed Legislation,"
I which was followed liv an illuminating
j discussion. O. li. Whipple, hortlcul
turalist at. tin* Bozeman college, spoke
| on "Barks, Playgrounds anil City
I Planting," while W M. Coblcigh of
| the Bozeman college, spoke on water
and sewerage. Both these addresses
j were followed by interesting discus
! sions. Two members of the Is*wis
| town Woman's club were in attend
| unci* Monday evening and were espe
! dally Interested in the play ground
| discussion.
(Continued on Page Six.)
CARRANZA FORCES EXPECT VILLA
TO ATTACK CHIHUAHUA CITY SOON
EL PASO. Nov. 22.—Carranza of
ficials on the border here say they ex
pact Villa .uni his main column to at
tack Chihuahua City soon. Vitla is
reported to be between Santa Rosalia
-and the state capital with his com
inand, having moved from l'arral to
the main line of the Mexican Central
railroad, north of Santa Rosalia. Re
ports of skirmishes between tlie Car
ranza forces and Villa bandits are re
eeived daily in Juarez. These have
occurred in the vicinity of Santa Cruz
dc Rosales, northwest of Santa Ro
salia, and near Ortiz, on the Mexican
Central railroad.
A shipment of 20,000 rounds of am
WIRES TO
WILSON
Hughes Congratulates
the President Upon
His Re-election.
WAS LONG DEFERRED
Republican Candidate Says on Ac
count of the Closeness of the Vote
in California He Had Awaited the
Official Count Which Now Has Been
Virtually Completed—Secretary of
State of California Threatens to De
lay Issuing Certificates of Election
to Presidential Electors, Thus Cre
ating a Serious Situation.
LAKEWOOD, N. J., Nov. 22 —
< Imrlcs E. Hughes, republican candi
date for president in the recent dec
lion, tonight sent to President Wil
son a telegram congratulating him
upon Ids re-election.
In his telegram Mr. Hughes said:
"Because of the closeness of the
vote I have awaited the official count
in ('alifoniin, and now thut it Inis been
virtually completed, penult mo to ex
tend to you my congratulations uikiii
your re-election. I desire nlHo to ex
press my best wishes for a successful
administration."
TOO LATE TO ANSWER.
WASHINGTON, Nov. 22.—President
Wilson was at a theater with Mrs.
Wilson when the telegram from Mr.
Hughes reached the White House and
did not know of It until he returned.
There was no comment. Some of tho
hundreds of messages of congratula
tion received during (lie past It) days
ami withheld from publication until
Mr. Hughes should lie heard from,
probably will be given out tomorrow.
WILLCOX EXPLAINS.
NEW YORK, Nov. 22. William It.
Will cox. chairman of tin* republican
i nlIonal committee, tonight issued the
following statement In reference to
Mr. Hughes' telegram to President Wil
son:
"Having confer roll by telephone dur
ing the day and lute this nit nr noon
with the republican state committee
and tho republican national committee
man in California, t am Informed that
the official canvass of the vote has
been so nearly eonipU'lod Mint no
change will result from the. few pre
cincts not counted in the returns Hum
fur compiled.
"This means that the majority for
Wilson electors In California ranges
from 1,200 to ;t S00 votes ami that thin
Is the linal resint of the canvass for
which we have been waiting. Ho far
as any recount Is concerned, the na
tional committee is not advised that
there are sufficient grounds to call for
such an application."
ADMIRATION FOR PARKER.
NEW ORLEANS, Nov. 22.--John M.
Parker, who was the progressive nom
inee for vice president, made public
tonight, a letter from President Wilson
expressing appreciation of Mr. Par
ker's support during the recent cam
paign. The letter read;
"My dear Mr. Parker: Now that tho
campaign Is over, ma* I not tell yuu
how my admiration has boon excited
by your courao of action, a course
marked by principle, self restate), gen
erosity and a high souse of public
duty? I hope that it will be possible
for utc some time to express in person
my warm feeling of admiration anil
appreciation.
"Cordially and sincerely yours,
"WOODROW' WILSON."
In making pupblle the letter, Mr.
Parker snld It was the first communi
cation of any kind cither dhlectiy or
Indirectly he has had with the presi
dent. since ho Introduced Mr. Wilson
nl a meeting of the Southern Commer
cial congress several years ago.
WALL STREET PAYS BETS.
NEW YORK, Nov. 22.— Holders of
some of the largest wagers made In
Wall street on the presidential elec
tion began puying tlie bets off today
on the assumption that there wan now
no doubt President Wilson had been
re-elected.
CREATE SERIOUS SITUATION
SACRAMENTO, Cal., Nov. 22.—Sec
retary of State Frank C. Jordan pre
licted that unless certain mistakes and
nmmissions discovered in returns of
till* election from Yuba county ajid
Orange county are corrected be will
-withhold the certificates of election to
(Continued on i'age Five.)
munition wrs made from Juarez to
Chihuahua City recently to be used
by euGcral Trevino against the Villa
bandits. An official of the Carransa
government on the border stated that
General Trevino would remain and
fight the Villa forces as long as he had
ammunition. The same official said
he believed Villa was making bis way
north toward Chihuahua City, as Geu
cral Murguiu is advancing from the
south with a complete division of
troops, makii.g it difficult for Villa to
proceed soutli toward Torreon.
It was pointed out by this official
(Continued ou Page Bight.)
