PINAL COUNTY MINING EDITION
ICAN
2L JLJLJLla ..iLU
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAR
16 PAGES
PHOENIX. ARIZONA, THURSDAY MORNING. NOVEMBER 23, 1916.
16 PAGES
VOL. XXVII., NO. 188
lth Dep
TCT'"OTTT3T
Final Cpntj
A
Vast
Treasure
Trove
of
.
Mail era! Wea
sstedi
By
Ma tore
Nature in her boundless bounty has setup a vast store house of mineral wealth, treasure vaults of gold, silver, copper, lead, zinc and other metals which the eager
hand of present day industry reaches for in'ever increasing demand. Man has come and looked upon this great treasure trove and has called it Pinal county. Surrounded
by awe-inspiring peaks, yast canyons and twisted domes, combining the beautiful and the grotesque; in the center a vast valley awaiting the coming of moisture which
will turn its fertile soils into a verdant oasis, Pinal county, in the future, should become a great hive of industry and the center of unestimable wealth.
The mineral districts of Pinal county cover a majority of its surface area. The greater part of this great treasure trove has as yet been undeveloped and only slightly
prospected by man. Marvelous deposits of precious and commercial metals have been found to exist in the county. Great quantities have been already produced and yet
the great region has been but slightly scratched. The surface of the unexploited regions exhibits practically the same evidences of strong mineralization as do the
exploited deposits. Development should prove that this great territory is one vast treasure vault cf nature.
The veins of the various districts are distinctive in their exceptional continuity and the regularity with which they occur. Ages ago the seismic impulses which
occurred formed perfect laboratories for nature in which she performed her miracles, producing the present mineralization of today. These impulses occurred in such a
manner as to thoroughly fracture and fissure the rock regularly and continually from far down in the depths and bowels of the earth to the surface, thus forming great
vaults for the storing of the vast mineral deposits formed by the action of the mineral salts, and the waters in contact with the other solutions which combined to form the
precious metals. . ,
Nature also in her bounty did not confine herself to the formation of one mineral she mixed and combined her acids and gases in that vast laboratory until she
produced great quantities of all the precious metals so eagerly sought by prospector and miner. An ideal combination for commercial production. Also, here and there,
Nature worked upon a greater scale she engaged in the wholesale manufacturing business and stored great bodies of low grade ores, copper and gold and others. These
mammoth store houses, containing millions of tons of ore, are some of them being worked at the present time; others are being exploited in an endeavor to find the extent
of their deposits while others, no one knows how many, or how great in extent, but await the coming of man and his modern methods for the production of their great
treasure troves.
The earnings from mineral production in Pinal county have already been far over $100,000,000.00; there are vast proven deposits already in sight which will take
years to mine. There are still greater deposits as yet untouched and hidden far in the bowels of the earth. What the future will bring forth no man can tell, but that it will
be a great era of mineral development which will produce many great mines is certain.
Opening of the Great Pioneer District
What Whitlow and His Family Found
One !; v in tho earlv sixties a wagon ' Pm:'' ,':"1? of -mountains spread
Main draped i's weary w;v slowly n"h! I" yo" ov"r ,ne district. It
imt:? the Arizona desert from Yuma I ls 111 these rough spurs and valleys
As the sh:des of evening drew nigh th" l'rm-ipal mineral develop
ing tired animals straining at the ! m, nt of Ul "lr,t' h" been under
lieavv loads lilted their heaus anil i taken "I' to tho present time. In these
omitting s.rill neighs plunged eagerly ! ri'""'''' v-'K" u"lM1 developed the great
nnraii. 8imi.Jtsmm.UHlv. topn nea small P-'--" aim in in rinui
ri".. the sparkling waters of a wind-
The
famous Sliver King
ing stream came into view. A beuati- 1 ""H- 11 '" years ago. or.e tne
ful villev in fie desert surrounded ! w rl! s fr"'"'" --til v-r mines. The
and dot'ed with 1 ixurious grownth e'"'n; U.v Consolidated Cooper C'oiji
irrmer.se cot ton woods and other vege- . b;i:'-- ""c f largest bodies of
(trim band of pleaee-lovlng white men
set forth for the haunt of the outlaw
raiders.
iJescerdlrg upon the marauders,
who were hisy with their scenes of
revelry, the vengeful wnites opvneo
fire and ran the frightened and
hitheito Pannting outlaws." who at j
this i niyppcted attack completely lost
uieir liei c, lu me ioui vuoicib w-
the territory. After the first few
shots. It is said, that th.'. entire out.
law land, with the exception of their
til 11i matter in the virgin soil.
low grade -ripper ore In the world. ' lender. lieyes, turned tail and fled In
This little hand of adventurers n ' Tn" "'"'"'"'Iv rich Magma mine, nil HI dirts. tiens cjosciy pursued r tne
man hv the Dune of Whitlaw bjil : l"''"''111 developing one or the largest , maddened wmtesnnu were summani.
family, daiintr the dingers of the -des- de comr hv exterminate.!, no .prirter t eing shown,
ert and tlu- v iiz.mvc of the imtdxr- l,"""" '' varied mineral wealth I FiNIS-KEVES
ivaae hud dnuntlesrv crossed 1"- "' '" '' l,r've " - i . , T ,,"" w""aw , ,,'
the sands and brorght t'leV.iut vul-l1" u w ve:,rs " w u,r Neatest' barricaded hiinsolf In one of the
lev v the world. Th is was what was i rnineial center of this great itinera! adce V.iuci of the settlement and
later the eotm'v of Find honored with si;,t
its first visitation by the white man.: EARLY " SETTLEMENT
Whilhw. leavinif the great valley' Mori ;n the early seventies, K. K
behind venture farther into the tin-' Kish nrd Com win v. of Tucst n. estab-
krown ahead and settled on what was lished a tiaaii i; post on tne Oila river,
known is Jikcii C'rerk a ni,t twentv
miles distant trom the Gila and in
close proxtmiK to what Is now know-
rot the town of Superior
there held the entire posse ut bu
for the ?n'ire day. As the shades of j
eveninr fell, however, a well directed
bullet found its mark and the career
of the famous outlaw was at an end.
This inci.lent soundtd the knell of
I open lawlessness l:i the district, al-
CRANDEURS OF NATURE
IMnul i4tint.' lies in the south cen
tral portion if l he slate of Arizona
and tovrs :n nr-- of a,3-0 sfjuar
miles. The northern half of the coun
ty Is extremely ruined and mountain,
out-. There, in some jiast period, nature
in a vast cataclysm has thrown a
monument to the pretenl. A grand! duv.
Panorama of towerlni ieaKs. rugged
mountain and pleasant valley which
rivals t;'" frtrr.outr bnuty sjiots of the
Klohe yearly visited hv thousands o
toiirisK, it p-sent this vast expanse
'erelv shows ihe ser""""s niJ(,
l as made upon its mighty surface.
IHE UUnl
v ii-i! is now the town of Florence
gov, n.-nt for the furnlshirg of sup. ". , - ,!"a '"Z
plies and also . did a considerable u'' ,,r?,,r.-,.C1U",C.m'?r? ..t0 .a."e"
. ui!.c-s with the peaceable and agri
cnlr.iia! I'imn Ihdians of the district
T'le i'Ui val'ey at tliis isilnt was
alrea.l:-' parelv populated with set
tlers who had drifted in from tlni.
to ti"ie. adventurous pioneers with
the roving spirit which has made our
nation the gnat world power it is to-
A little later u man by the
name of ollinwoon established a
store ,"t tne same point, and thus a
oonn'rv. wre itill in-evidence. Adams
ville was no longer the haunt of an j
oulbw band, but many and wild were j
the doings which followed In after
years in the former huunts of the j
Roves gang.
It Is said, althot'gh the tale mav
not be true that Adumsville and it
endless legends was the material and
sceue fron which A'fred Henry Lewis
secured his data for the famous Wolf
viile series or tales.
i:liHly follow ing the iiioneer hit
. l
existence at inis isjini nnu wan caneo .,
Th"CnWt record of mining activity ; JJ''"". J"nn l'M"';' ren?c ft?
in this district occurred when the strict s'ul,", n--'r . ,he
: . . ' n.i.1,1.. .i. j: i ,,.. Walker lK"-ame ery powerful among
Tho southerh-he county is ! .'.V 'u nr his Indians --J!';
. . . i i...... ooillieti looiao aKoi i.v it-
"'"il""1" rnosity oi ueseri waste soutti and euirapeu in oe.,uu.-i v p;oms-. uok - t,rKi.i wis cirrled on bv
of the tlil , rivet. illhof,gh here and off and on for .1 perlo-1 of several me "'- '"'i' r.r , i.A .i nit
there nalure ho m rem-ed mniua ao.i i vei.rw. It is Kaid that he hauled sev- I " ,., i ...... .
I. idles. ehl p-ls lu the v.a-te to heilna loads of high grade ore across
.1 .!, ut i,n- . w .... . . . . ! fi .. .lnuut i.i Viimi ..t i ,i .t.nta t imi.s
Throughout all tiiis great upheaval Al otit this time the ill-famed re-! diffovered
.Uriel, "specially to the west in the
Casa ;iuih1o region, win :-; he latet
s nil worked tip.- Vfkol
'lis lone iin- ill- i.iiiitru r- ; . . - V.I1.I1
of primal forces, nature to repay In wit .ir.own as Adamsville. three miles ; ' '' " " . '
flip future for the wiustes of the past to the west of Florence also was set-
: grace or fi.i which he received thou-
i.l.. .i i.i.a,. .l......uOn ...n..OV. 1. In i.fti' ...p ,i n in "lir hitll finfl
. i .u.: r..v:.. n,,;.. The nnt record
ins io-r conoon aiu exploitation oi i iiui.tio. in-i.t-u i.. i..i.... , ..ffort of
mun. Wealth 111 the form of mineral. These Mexicans r er the remnant-; -- ' , V.
in all its many and varied forms.) of a irroii;. of .Mexican revolutionist, i ,Vu "wh.-n :i
goio. silver, copper, ztne. lead, and : woo rat. i--cn omm-o .ioim men
' i. .., A ." ;.. , . i, 1- -1J
deiMislted In mountain and beneath tied, being the tongregating place of a,,u car'i V PRnepprTlNfi ' '
ot actual and de-
mineril exjilora
occurred In the
erour. tit adven-
-V- - ...... ,.. ..! H
many, other varieUes, vart Is.dies of ti m of th - coutitry and had settled ; - 'fornians" arrived
low. grade ore treated u, the long' in the c,;a v.y, where they con- c lienc" turned
past ages, fissures and veins, twisting i d.c ted a rcigr- of terror over the un- "i.."", p
and breaking through' the torn and j off-ndi Indians and whites of tnat t I n g ,h ro,.t , n'onn .i r.
tumbled rock masse, inlaid wUh gold, region Several saloons and a rV.ore ; m's,t-,!-V The l and sport severe
and silver and copt-er. of vnrving or tv o comprised the seUlement. and !
width and depth, rich in the treas- rranv -Mid wild are the tales told 1 bv , moh. In tiv l t''asLa
ired. metals, beg.nnlmr with a small I old Mmers of the orgies conducted In ' "f .lii T,if,u n.
infinitesmal threat on the surface I this resort, evercl len.-cade whites i- j Kt,1)rch,,;(1 ,,f that region
a..d widening with depth into the also joined the band, which was lead YZTL l w' Ldm.t
iv a .Mexican desperado, ianuei ; . . . .
teves hv name. whose presence ! on "nter w th th;2 wily red
','...! i.Vi v, ,.t o;i-klnB 1 nc remnant of i'e piosped-
bowls of this earth to great masses ofiVV
high grade deposits. There are Dock- U'
ets and masses of ore cropping out on lre.il!ied terror into the hearts of anv
tne suriai-e. Here and there in all lone ano innocent seiner caugni un
portions ofHhe rugged hills throughout preprred id his vicinity,
the county. j .A WILD TALE
The northern boundary of the coun-! r'lrallv. -'tie beautiful Sabbath morn
ty is ' well guarded by nature, the ing in ISTi, f-illowing a series of un
vust and broken fastnesses of the , usually darlnr, and savage depreda
little known Superstition range hold-i Hons hv the outlaw gang. In which
ing dominance over the borders of one white man had lost his life, the i
this rich territn'V. This rnnire is ' residents i i the vicinity of Florence
Itn.ivm to be iieavily mineralized, but d' tcrminc' to put an end to the
has lieen little explored at the pres. ! actlv itin of Heyes and his band. 1-ed
ent date. by ono Johnny I:ogers on this Sunday
To the outh and east, the broken morning, said by old timers to have
iini-os ei noteroDiiincs of the great neon -i ''efioti'ol still autumn day, the
A VIEW OF ONE OF THE STREETS OF FLORENCE,
THE COUNTY SEAT OF PINAL CO.
iiur hand leitn ned to Fl w : n'-c and
drilled cut of the ken of thi-i tale.
About this time the depredations
of the Apache had reached the'.r
lergth, and the Ion arm of th gov
ernment reached forth to check the
redmer. In tnelr career of terror and
tlesttuction among the "invading and
tver incrtanii-g whito men who were
slov.'lv enroaching upon their fastness
es. The soldiers, led by Htoneman,
Miles, and Crooks at various times
came and went through the district,
holding the Apache at bay and slowly
forcing him back to his Innermost
ha-ints
Along In 1S71, fSencrrtl Ktoneman, ir.
cotnrn.-vnd of the army ia that district,
eslal lished a picket post at what wa;
later Mled the town of Pinal, nndcr
the shadow of a huge lone mountain,
known aR Picket Post, which towered
to vast heights out of the valley a':
the n-.outh of Queen Creek.
'."he post was known as Picket Post,
and from this point the construction
of a j-oad through the mountain rangen
into the higher valleys of the Pinals
was begut: to facilitate the move
ment of the troons in their oieratlons
aisaiitj-t the depredations of the
Apaches. The road was known as
the Slonen-.an Grid", and was a won
derful example of army engineering
rwork, being hewed in many places
tl'iotigh the sold rock along the sheer
sides of towering walls, which ended
hundreds of feet. lower at the bottom
of lmmeme canyons and winding
vaileys. The road is still In exist
ence today and is heavtlv traveled
from Miami to Superior nd Florence
Up to this time the district was still
(Continued on .Page Six)
. THE RAY CONSOLIDATED COPPER COMPANY
- - . ' . " " " - - ' ' ' --.r
: . .. . i..'- " .. .... ,70- .
1 . - '
..'. v i . , . . ... .... ... . . : . ,.
- . t ... .a , r.. , - - - s- , ' . - ,
v-V.'. ..u-wx i-j 'i'-y. .V'- l-V' 'J.-
A VAST PANORAMA CF THE DEVELOPMENT BY 'MAN OF NATURES HIDDEN RESOURCES MAM
MOTH INDUSTRY CONJURED BY PIGMY HANDS FROM THE BARREN HILLS
HISTORIC TOWN DF FLDREiMGE
. IS COMING INTO ITSOWN
The town of Florence, a tale of tlie I
p.?st In Final county and a great .
possibility in the present ai d future. I
Florence the county seat. Florence,
the .-nte of the great penientiary with'
its rmwierti method of humane treat-1
ment for the hapekss ones incareer-
ated within its grey wait.
This tiaint town with its strange,
adobe house and stores, its windmills,
its quiet atmosphere and legends of,
the past, the first town in Pinal coun-
ty an dtho center In the old days of i
many a celebration y "hardrock" I
miner and "hill billy just "rarin' " to
go. This little town on the !lla oc-1
copies today a fortunaio position.
About on till sides the flat plains of
ihe fiila devoted to agricultural per- I
suits, with infinite possibilities in tho.1
future. And bai k of the valleys, the
nils, full of minerals, gold, sliver,
copper, lend and many others, some
producing at present, and more, mil
lions and million of tons, awaiting
the coming of the prospector, the min
er and the capitalist.
There are a few signs of activity in
Florence today. There Is to be a new
hank. Th eld frame building which
has housed fit Pinal Hank and Trust
company for these many years, is to
be discarded and fine new quarters
will bear witness in the near future j
lo the prosperity ol the region.!
(iround ha.-- been broktn for the new
building, and a few weeks will se
the bank itstalled in its new location.
There is also a new garage under
cot rse of construction, and several
sin llar projects are under course of
eoi.Hiucration.
Florence is a sleepy old town and
hard to awaken to the call of prog
n'ss. The great era of prosperity" in
the state lias r.ot as yet been heard
in this quiet city by the Gila. In
spite of itself, however, prosperity is
slowly but surely coming t th
stronghold of the political interests of
th county, and l lorencp win in tne
near future awaken to the present in
snite of Itself in spite of the ghosts
of ancient days, 'which stalk the
Ftreets bath night and day, in spite
of the apathy which has settled
among the adobes and windmills,
themselves, us quiet as the town.
Florence is due for a vast awaken
Ing. and a few years hence should
witness a mighty city here upon the
plains near the (Jila. In the valley
itiitnediatel- adjacent to Florence, and
extending over to the Casa Grande
district, are over 00.000 acres of
fertile land awaiting the coming of
the heaven sent waters, land as fertilo
as thn.se of tho great Salt River valley,
and but mvaitmjr the magic waters
which co'ild be sent unirslus over the
drv U'.res by the great wand of "irri
gaticn." At present there are but a
tew- tho tsand acres under eutlivatio i
in the vnlev. these, however, are e
trenvly leiti'e and ample evidence ;
the possibilities of-the future and irri- i
pat ion. which n.ust come, and th: 1
before many vears.
There is a live business institution
m the town, the Florence Commercial
Companv, owned bv E. V. Price, a
live progressive man who is for the
best interests of Florence at all times
ind for the interests of the district
The Klorvi-.ee Commercial Company
Curries on : general merchandise busi
ness, and Is the largest store of its i
kind in the town. I
The building of a storage dam at
the San Carlos reservation, which
would permit of tho irrigation of the
distrbt, should witness the growth
of a great city at Florence, a city
of many thousand souls, where now;
the population numbers but a few
hundreds, that is, with tho exception
of tlie population of the grey-walled I
penltont'.iry in the vicinity and its J
great congregation of khaki clad in-
habitants who live and exist there ,
perforce. the have to. j
Florence is to bo congratulated on;
one sign of progress, it has a real 1
school house, a new building which I
is I'.mply large, airy and sanitary,
where the little Florentines receive .
their instructions in the books ot
knoledge. There is also a large hos
pital building, with adequate accom
modations for the needs of the town.
Also, there Is at nlpht the great I
ch rus which howis In the moon-j
light, the lonesome spirits who feel a i
kit ship with Jhe spirits of the magic
rays, the stray -cur, the lone coyote
far back in the hills, they make the!
nigh! air resound with their lonesome'
v,a ". and bring back the ghosts of
"!:' times. Florence also has an-otb-
r .great asset, the fair sunset
" . iieh glows in myriad colors over the
lo buttcs and far distances of the
( tern hills, in wonderful setting
r ; finit variety the lingering rays
of o.j Morpheas sink slowly over the
hills and the light wtrsperings of tho
evening shades draw a veil over tho
town of the past and the possibilities
of the future. It is early night and
all hi'm::n Florence is asleep.
O
' r . i
WILLIAMS PLACE SIL
VER KING 1880
Through the Long Hours of th Night
the Talk Rose High and Joyous.
