mwliatfhm
)L IXC. NEW SERIES VOL. LXIII.
BURLINGTON, VERMONT, THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 2.i, 191(5.
NUMBER 21.
Ill ARMY
STILL IN FLIGHT
i f. 1 1.. ..1. : itn...
s i mm n aiiticitiiif nuv. u i .
Situation.
:tr ttneki N.irthrnNt of MiiiinxHr
ii. ns iicrim 1-nri.t ici'iton
strong Resistance.
HUGHES SENDS HIS
CONGRATULATIONS
TO PRES. WILSON
dor No'
'im h'i i
f'on s
hi ' ' j
i' i
r u
ti i it.
tin 1 u
i i
:- i c f mm ' l id n
c'l" , -11 nf Erc.it im-
i C 0!l MUX I't the
r 'on nf H'i,iii'n"i.i
''riM.ms e-veiy whore
' ii i' wes-siiie itcalni i
i I tMi'rii 1n v.- heoi,
dc',' I' hes. ( i Ii " "IVi
' w'o ii Would Indicate
r'1-M.nll l'!' ti'O Ro;i-
Defeated Presidential Candidate Accepts the
Verdict Gracefully and Expresses Best
Wishes for Successful Administration Cali
fornia Secretary of State Says He May
Withhold Certificates of Election to Electors,
Because of Errors in Returns Neither Poli
tical Party Impressed by Statement.
t:i
iv Ii u-nted I'i i r
-n.i
.Hill
t'"i .T.iii villi":. Ii ''r,'t
r.i I n roll'.':,' t"'Aliril
It 1 1 t. r nort pr.ibnhli
t ii ,'.t t inr- II e;it '.f the Gey.
. . r.iplui of till"
i t . n i r it ! of the i--ntr.ll
-.ti Ciainia woul'l
lin munla-v into 1' s
igonist--.
11 the .!t ". a'.lov. .
T'Vit and in trie
. 'nr more prmin I
t tip 1 : 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 : i 1 1 ins
. i hllo 111 the if
. i In- Roumanians
li.ivc been hold In
i,liioss i f the Imtit
i .1
ii
re r.
' row- Hie
I ifir iitu
the rnr'i'pa.st i
. iile if tne
hurm r ,i ,s
iCC 1 t I t'tl ' '
To tl t
1 I I
e t T oil ' nf
til. t
1 1 Sun no re -ii 'ti of Fiance th
of i'i'1' lo arc almost inactive,
r ,r t i I illel'i IngS Imlll-
C Trl i t'ni. mi vaiiiiim rfiiinr.
e ii itilHri duel continue mi
e V i Ii.ili.in and Jiiisltin
, rt f
r r M
imrt'ii is-' '
tr
r fp fi
Tirf 11. I 1
i 1 lit! concerning the
ir :ire to the effect
M town attacks l.v
tin- 'ipriunn-r.nl-l
i i-i had pi eviousK'
' i minis ninl I'.ulgn-
v pre t( i-7 strong re"Istain e
their i i 'inning from Sne-
fi roc c tr i rtli nf Mlllllistir. tn
I Vi. tlnrtrc n lies northeast nf 1 1 1
white n S-rlii. hi ofliolal ciimmniilcn
rrr tpij thp Serbs and their alllo"
th" eantu r it ilio villages of r.ira-
T 'l Pnbp-m ir northeast nf Monnttr.
Ihr fvtriine western Hank of tli"
rnr n 1111 if Lfprf n nri-iis- tnv.1
Intn (iitii(-i 1'nri.i rprnnl'' tlir
irr liy th' 'itrnto triio.i of tin-
cf l.r I. ivcI dti tlin ml liniiK
iL.. lr.el.fi
Turks lntvr I . 1 1 1 ( I i' l a liiiixy nt-ai,-;jili.st
Sliltaiiahii'l. I'i r.-m. Imt
if pnl "1 with In .i v '.istialtli s by
I n slaiif .'H Cf rrliHK tn 1'i t rot'tii'l.
nnlor of lin? ronimaiidi r nf tbo i n
fnrn . tlir inlnlstiTi" (if tbn pi titrul
r and thpir ttulf.s hav b ft (Ireici.
t.,iUi i7iin,, . J , xov. 2.'. fliarlps K
lliiKhns, rppublicun enndidute for presi-ili-iit
In tlin riTont plpctlon, to-nlulit srnt
to I'rnsidcnt Wllann a tflpgrram con-ffratnliitliij,-
him upon his rr-c lection
In tbn tclpcrain Mr. MiikIiph said-
"HPPIIUHC (if the cloSPIIliSts nf (III. Vol-
I hav nwaitod tbn ofTlci-il count in
t'uliforriia and now that tt h.n. bicn
virtn.illy 'nniplityd permit tim tn p
i nil tn ynu my cotiKrutulntiotih upnn
our iii-cluctlnn. dpsirn also to p
pris my lipst wis-lirs for a HUccppsfu!
..drriinistt atlon."
New Vnrl:. Nov. -12 William II. Wlll
'nv. 'hiiirnian of the ri'iiubllca n im
1 1 nnal rnmmlttpi., tn-nlKht IsmipiI the
I'lllnwin.t? .statiitn.-iit In rcrcrfiici' to Mr.
HiikIiis ti'lpKrani to l'rcsldi'nt Wilson:
'M.ivlnu ciinrorrnil by tplcpbonp duiliiK
tlin day 4ind late this afti'innon with
the iiipnbllcan Statp .omnilttpo and tlir
riipiililican national nimmitterniiin in
Callfiirnla, I am Informed that tlir nf
lldal Piiiiva.ss nf tho vnti- bus hern sn
nearly cnmplptpd that no rliiinc" will
result from the few precincts not
cnuntc.l In the iptuuis thus far com
piled "Tins means that the inajoilty for
the Wilson electors in California ranses
from about l.L'nO tn II.IIIO votes and that
Ibis is the filial result of the canvass
for which e have been waiting. He
f.ir as any recount is concerned, the na
tional committee is not advised that
there are sufficient grounds to call fur
such an application."
K WILL MAKE NEW
I l-i.U 1 . VlllllU I U.iV, Vj
llr Clinic in Mloeiitiiin No Itcitm
l'rciareil.
nit . ( ar in, i ..t-ii.irri ..u an allo-
ii ii k . 1 icn vi r in a -pcipi
Stnr nil Dp ( m er I. This nllni-n! inn
bp onp nf 'lip niurt miiortant dm u-
s I MlPti hi' the '.inncv I. ni'ii Ilie
'. ....hi. i iiiru . tiiiiuiiii
i- ( ii in. .iriMi f . nmi shim
alioi a't'in will show, it 's s.n'i
jiprf- 1 impartiality of th,. ln,
whli 1 dci-lreil altoRotber to iip
tbe Mn, nit having failed, i.m l
ncaii in ii ai.-posai lo snorten imc
lei meanwhile making arranKc-
;i in inn ii no i ue suiiennns ( ausco
he w r without any distinction nf
inality or i recti of tlio bcllineronts.
alloi'i'im, it is reported, will inake
her dfsoeralc a-ppeal in favor of
IrnitiiiK the. faithful tlirouKlinut
world to continue their prayers with
as thp nbjiM t
d iissinn wi'h the ( ntdinalii
.M'l the extent nf the allocution,
if r j ude iassai;ps concerning
iik'h.. of Poland, the deportation
'uiuivr and efforts madr toward tho
dioi of peace by icverul neutral
... e.'n.e. ijuly by President Wilson
ivlrK Alfoiifo, hut so far it scorns
opinion prevailed not to inter into
-..in i. iiji ...vi u. muil! UllJI'II VIIC
.line Intf res'.?.
Sacrainento, f'al., Nov. Secretary of
State I'rank ''. .lot dan to-day preillctid
that unless certain mistake? and mnis
sinus discovered In let urns of tile lec
tion from Yuba county and Oralis
enmity are collected Ii" will withhold the
pi lllb iites of election to presidential
electors from California.
Should this lie done, their undoubtedly
will be delay if not a serious .situation
possibly affpetin ppii tlie rp-elpctinn of
I'residrnt Wilson, since the eliitinn de
lieiuls on the votes of the thirtieu presi
ilential eleitiirs fiom California.
I'ollowlm; is tho statement issued by
.Ionian :
' I'ndcr the ptovlsions of section Ml"
of the political code, it is the du'y nf
tile secretary nf state to compare and
estimate tin- nles Kivrn fur elei tors.
Such comparison and estimate Is to be
made as soon as returns are received
ftnin all the counties In the State.
"In Marysvllle, piecinct No. twelve
denniciatle electors are credited with ''
votes each, but the votes leculved bv
l.oien A Ilandlev. ilemo'-nitic eli-etur,
have not heen eiedileil because the elce
'Ion i ler lis faned lo include the vote in
liieir rftain" to the supervisor", the su
pervisors could not ascertain such vot;
and therefore the county cleik was un
able tn Include it in th" returns to this
n(Tico. The returns from thla tniinty are
In'omplete.
"In the county of OrniiTe a more glaring-
cine of dlsf raneliisemctit is present
ed. All the voters of r iraturrthnrpc pte
clnet liave been denied sin on ,irosslnn nS
their v.'iJhps a indlciited by their votes
Becaiis" die tall" lists are In the boated
envelopes lontalnim: 'he ballots the board
nf supervtM'-. co'dd not ascertain the
vote In ;b.i. pip"lnct and the returns cor
titled to this o:!Vp a'e nul complete be
cause of rii' b omission.
"If llie-e tnlstnki's arc not corrected, if
t'lfe pnr'lni etuMi'i arc to be acceptpil.
if -lie will of tile vntP'S nf these precincl-
tu be illsifR.irded even tlir vote of one
elector, why (annul other mistakes be
permitted to occur In other counties mil
precincts and Ihns the will nf the voters
be thwarted and confusion result.
"It is tho duty of the demociatic and
republican .State central committees to
take stops to have these mistakes coriec'.
ed even if tlie aid of the city must be in
voked, otherwise the secretary of state
may deem it his duty to withhold certili
(.i!c of election to presidential electors
i:i order that an evil precedent may not
ue eialilisliP(l "
Fresno, Cat., nv. ii; Chester 11.
Unwell, chairman of the republican .State
central committee, in a statement to
nlKht sold:
Whither there nte such Irtepulantles
In the returns as to Justify proceedings
in the courts Is a matter which the State
committee will have to determine after
consultation with Cliaiiman Willcov and
the national committf.' in New- York
Hut certainly I he insignificant errors in
two precincts discovered by Secretary "t
Slate .lonbin would not justify him as
an administrative officer in permanently
withholding the ccrnncales nf election
of Ilie Cnlliornia eleotors and thereby
depriving California of its veto in the
"bcloral college. Such a proposition is
loo ridiculous to discuss."
WHITE STAR LINER
BRITANNIC SUNK
Gigantic Steamer in Use as Hos
pital Ship Torpedoed in
Aegean Sea.
LOSS OK LIKE SMALL.
121 .VnrM'M nmi nfHi OfTlrrrs nml Mm of
Anny Mrillrnl Corp AVcrn un 'rs
rl .Ni Wotintlcil AltnnrH.
HAPPENINGS IN VT.;
NEWS BY COUNTIES
ADDISON COUNTY
San I'Yaneisco, Oil.. Nov. 22. f). K.
Cu.-hing. chairman of tlie democratic
state central committee, said to-day that
In bis opinion no ndlou contemplated by
Secretary of State .Jordan could possibly
affect the situation as it stands t hat
I're.-ldi lit Wllson"s lead in tlie State is
safe.
1ondon. Nov. jC.--The former White
Star liner, ISrltatinir. in use an a Uritlxh
ho'pital ship, was sunk !n the Aegean
lea to-day. The lns of life was small.
The lliitannic was Im'lt In !!'! at Helfasl.
Phe was of SVi,tO tons burden and th
largest steamidiip In service,
The Daily News' Athens correspondent
send" tho followiiiR concerning the sink
ing of Die ship:
"Th,. Britannic was torpedoed at light
o-' lock In the morning and sank near
shore (ifiv-tlve minutes later. She was
going to Salonli.!, but had no wounded
on board
"Her complement included 121 nurse"
and .'sn nftlcrr'! and men of the armv med
ical corp. Twenty-live of the Injured
from tho steamer arc now in tho I'.ussldii
hospital, vvhlle others are aboard allied
warships
"The Islanders of 7,n saw the ve'-sel
sinking and the victims struggling in the
wavea and promptly responded to the ap
peals for help. An Anglo-l-"rench squad
ron from Piraeus, comprised of destrov-ei-
and auvliiarics, Immediately went ti
the scene.
"The injuries of some of those en board
are very severe, esppelallv Hip occupant
of two boats which were caught by the
propellers of the steamer. The women
nf Xea tore up their clothing to bandage
Hip injured.
"The Uritannlc had :!.P"i beds, ivhleii
,11111! been prepared for the reception ot
I sick and wounded an hour prior to the
torpedoing.
Tile smallness of the loss of life on
board the Uritannlc is believed here tn
have been due to tlie steamer's mag
nificent life saving equipment. She
had a double bottom over five feet
deep, divided into a large number ol
compartments, and this s.vstem extend
ed well above her water line.
The ship carried foity. eight of the
largest size life boats ever fitted to an
ocean liner, two of them being equipped
witli powerful engines. They were ar
ranged 111 four groups, leaving a laigo
space for tlio marshalling of passen
gers in case of disaster. Tlie davits
were built on a tifw piiiniplo sn that
the boats could be launched leet rleallv
on an even keel even if the ship were
badly listing. It was also possible tn
i launch all the boats from one side, if
nece. s:in. The -ip had sixteen
liaf.sverse bulklie.i'is, an sl nf th
main omp.li Intents could lie flooded
without, aff. i ting (lie Mnbillt of the
ship.
ROHBEKS " ET$:i), 100
KROM TRANSFER WAGON
Washington, Nov 22. President Wilson
was at a theatre with Mrs. Wilson when
the telegram from Mr. Hughes reached
tin Wblli Iloie.1 and did nol know of it
until be tii ii i.pii Tin re was no emu
nn nt
t. ii AA'P vr Ttxr- 'rT'-v,
CALIF. Ii ALLOT UOXES
Tt.iii.nio, i a i , ,ov ir.'. in ordrr to
ghten the lcfral tar.gle that has
.. ...... ... ... ..inn IfllirilM JiOlIl
i and Onim;e i unties, the superior
ta of tbor' courthn must order the
t boxes n -opetK d and the count rcn-
lin, Statr ta' ntlclan, who has charge
in oillci.il 1 'ct'f n canviis.
i!u f fit 'i ot Aitnrni y-( ieiieral Webb
''in n I"- HO- .in- 1 1 1 1 1 1 f s IIP VOIO
ver' lv. net wa. found correct in
ofllcla! eanvufcs
VETERANS MEET.
RUTLAND, ill, Ii
PARALYSIS CHAIN
SUDDEN DEATH
Or JACK LONDON
''ha'tanooc.i. Te.nn . No-- j? -Two mei.
hi Id up a Southern Express i om(i.iny
transfer wagon to-night in tho Western
v.- Atlantic railroad yard" here and took
in currency, according to Chat
tanooga City detectives!.
Dr. Klexner Evolves Peculiar j Author Kound Unconscious
j Morning, Dies at 7:1.) in
i Evening.
in
Theory about Poliomyelitis.
Itnswell, ok'.-i.. Nov. 2;.With Jll.t'iO of
the funds of the first National hank of
noswcll In their possession, three ioh
bers to-night were lleeii.g to the wilds
nt tile liiamielii mountains after hiiving
shaken off a putsuing posse by fording
a swollen deck.
The robbery ocelli red late to-dav. Three
emplo.ves nf the bank and two custmnei"
were ordered into the vault, while W. .
I Mora n, vice-pi esldetit. and W, W. Jeter,
cashier, were on.pi'llo'l In aid the rob
bprs in putting Vi'l in currency, Jl,lli in
cold and Il.fM) in silver Into a stout ack
.Moran and Jeter then mined tlie others
In the vault and (lie door was closed,
after whl' h the robbers tied.
M1DDLEBURY.
The remains of Dr. (.'. A. Flanders were
broug'it here on the noon train Tlinta
day from Piltsfoid. wli"te be died at the
home of lit" d.inghic, Mrs. Menry
Phillips The f iner.ii was held in Pitts
ford. The rem.i.n.s were taken to West
Cornwall for In'irmriit in Hie family lot
In Kvcrni ecu ceineterv, where bis llrst
wif. "as b lied. The i-om.iins were lie
comriiinleil bv Severn 1 relatives
The annual meeting of tlio Village Im
provement rudely In postponed until
March by vote of the executive oominit-
ti e. The outstanding bill.' have all Iven
paid. The annual duo eaii be handed
any tlmo to Mrs. .1. A. Kb teller or Mrs.
John II. Strwarl Mr. Ira M. Taylor
inn complctid some intensive repairs In
the Taylor block mi Mom slteet ami
lilted up Hie toiim loiineily used as a
tobacco ftlori; into a luikeiy shop. This
atori! is now occupied by William Col
Una, the linker, who has for a year past
been employed by A. J. lilssi tte, who
sold out iha'. pail of .ii-- busi
tn si. lo him. II. il Alelii ii, vim has
been visiting nt the home of h,s brother,
IJr. P. i: Mellrn, Tor a week, h.1.1 re
turned to New York city. Them ban
been ihippfil from the nen express or
llcu during the past vvel. over fi.OOO
puunds of ponllt. Mis. 1,. A. Hlober of
P.oston is in town lo visit her pannti
j Mr and lt - i 'bailee tiulloek,
I f"r a f w dins Y.r .ml Mrv
'Theodore Foster of Muni'ie street ari re
joicing over the Hiriviil ol a son al tliMi
home. Mr.. Ii. F iluibs of Hudniii
l'"alls, N. V., m in town Mr. met Mis.
J. .1. O'Cniuiell have announced ihe en
gagemenl of their daughter. Miss lira re
O'Connell, to Henry Arnold HcFries nf
New York city. The Hon. l.eigard P
Hale, who was called heie by the (balh
nf bis cousin, Mrs. II. A. Peek, 1ms re
turned to Albany, N. Y. I). Lewis Se
leek, who has been oonlliied at the 1'laiis-bui-gb.
N. Y., hospital for a few weeks
by Illness. I.i repotted as to be rapidly
recovering and is expected to return home
tills vveek.-C. W. Hurlbtirt has purchased
the Orcliard farm on the Shelburne road.
- Toussalnt Kidder has returned from
Sherbrooke, Can., where he lias been to
visit relatives and friends. He was ac
companied borne by his nephew, Knther
Coder ol that city, who will spend a
few days here. Four hundred and thlrly
four lickts weie sold at tin Middb'hury
stalini! i . . ? Burlington Saturday on the
special I rain for the football game be
tween Middlobmy Colli ge and the Cni
versily of Vermont Tlie Modern Wood
men of America will give an obi folks
dance in the Masonic hall Wdlnesilay
levelling, November 29. Calhoun's online-
tra will play. Miss Minnb Mcimnald has
returned from Itutland. where s'tc has
been to visit relatlve.i and triends
Word has been receivd ol ll" death,
following an autnni'iiule accident, of
June Chaniplin, son of Mr. nnd Mrs.
Osrar Champlin of limckton, Mass.
They were former residents of this town.
!--Mrn. Wallace AiMold I. am go.ie to Hran
Idon for a few davs' visit to relatives and
.friends Mr and Mr" Oliver Lawrence,
'who have been visiting al tlie home of
her parents, Mr. and Mrs. (iinrge Itod-
fnr a wiek, have returned to Soulh
Thomas MeCaullev ha." re-
tutiuil from Hie Adirondack region of
New York, where he has la en for llvo
weiKs, sn much Improved that he has
accepted a pnsitinn at Hudson Falls, N.
Y. and villi move tin re Willi bis family
early this wefk. Miss Margan t Heath,
who has In en in West IJutland for a
link, teaching In the Hnglish department
of the high eihool in place of Miss Anna
I 'ishir. lias completed her service tlir re
and returned - Ml Stella Turner, who is
ADAMSON
L
Aw HELD
UNCONSTITUTIONAL
tenuhlng Fchnol at North IVrrlslnir g. is
In town for a few days with her slsli rs
al their homo on Franklin stieel.
Tlie funeral of liasll Piper, the 17-ear-nld
son of Mr. and Mrs. W. (!. Piper of
l'iai.t Mlddlchilry. vvas held In Ihe Me.tbo
dlst Church of that village Sunday after
noon at. two o'clock, nr. 1). II. Corkr.in.
pastor ot the Methodist Church of till"
village, officiated The church was tilled
to Ita eiitiaeity with relatives and friends
of the young man. Thrre was a nrof islon
of llnwers, more Hum the little hamlet
has seen In a long time. There was a
beautiful rot ple( e fiom the members nt
the class of I'ltl. Mlddlebtlry high school,
of which he was a member last year.
The Interment n.i" In the Prospect ceme
tery in that village. The bearers were:
liasil T.rtQue. ftitrmn Hillings and Walter
Iliimner, the three voting men who wore
with him nn tlie hti'itltci trip a wepk ago
when lie wnr a'cldcntallv shot on the
mountains V irlles from litis village, and
Harry firai'.t. llaiold Kbnor and Milton
Uliner, throe more "f the young man's
chuins
Wcdr.pndny eveninK. Noienibpr there
vi-iM l e all old folks' dance In the Masonic
ball to which everybody is invited and
Culhnun' op-hosira will furnish th"
music-Mrs. I.. M. Morrison returned
eiatunlay nl.ilit after n three weeks'
visit m her son in Albany, N. Y . and
shorter visits in Castleton and P.utlnnd.
' Miss Christine Hlgelow of t'li'lnml Is
1 here for n few days with her friend. Miss
1 Irene Adam", at tho college. .Michael J.
I Hlgglns, elder son of John Iliggir.:..
I proprietor ot the Addison House.
I left Tuesday for Hutte. Mont., where ho
1 plans to make hi- home and tn go Into
the hotel business. Mr. tllggins has had
a large experience in tile hotel 'mslnes"
with his father. He is an exirenvlv
popular young man and lias m.mv friend"
- Mrs. J. D. P.yne nnd Ml Minnie Mo
lionabl have returned from Uutlrind,
where they have been to visit relatives
and frlondi.--Mnndav. market day. eggs
brought 4'! to f" cents and butter "3 to i!T
The ittiion ten lees of the Mcthndlst,
Congregational and Memorial Baptist
Churches wore held in tin latter Sunday
evening. There was an unusually large
gathering. The sermon was preached by
the l!ev. Ceorgo K. Hnrr. 11. P, prpsl
dpnl of Nevvtnn Theologii al Institute.
Prof. 13. C. Bryant has gone to Man
rhster, N. II., having been called to that
( Ity by the serlnus Illness nf his father,
who Is stricken with pneiimnni i. William
W. Thomas has returned to Poitltney
after ,i few days in town.
John Selle.k loft Mnndav for
Plattsburgb. N'. V.. where he will meet
his brother. P I.. Soiled;, who ha" boon
conlined at tlio hospital ill that city for
n few weeks and accompanied him homo.
The banns of marriage wore published
Sunilav al St. Mary's Church between
William lV"--ndiin and Miss Rachel Trinhi
of Cornwall and Stanley A. Trudo and
Miss D.iisv I.iilhrop of Lincoln. Miss M
II. Tobm has returned to Burlington after
n woe; in town.
Sheriff Ollti A. Smith and bis deputies
met at the court house and the following
verc drawn as grand jurors for the com
ing term of the December court of Addi
son loiiniv. Arthur T Clark of Vdclisou,
iMvid V. Myri'k of Uridport. Wilbur C.
I'inghani of Bristol, I'rank I. Dclnng of
Cornwall, Daniel O. Noonan of l'crris
Imtg. lidwatil S. Have" of (ioshen, C. II.
13alnit of 1 liiiicock. Robert II. Oliver of
Leicester, (ieorge A Thayer of Lincoln,
N. C. renri of Mlddleluirv. B. F. I.ddy of
Moiiktnn, II. Clinton Cotiar t of No.v
Haven, A. It. Bush of orweil, James 13.
Hedge" of P.iliton. I'rank A. Atwnoii of
Salisbury. Milton P. Cook of Shoreham.
Ji sso Carpenter of Starksboro, C b'rank
Maldoon of Vet genucs. The petit Jurors
arc: Addison. Morton Torrey, John Black
lock; Uridpott. C.irl O Wolcolt, Truman
Pro Kornia Judgment Passed ir
Injunction Case in Kansas
District Court.
HASTENS KINAL DECISION.
All ItiillroadH Are Asked to .loin II
llrliiglng Hip Case lleforc the I'nl
ted tntr-M .supretnr Ciirl.
Kansas f'lty. Mo., Nov. 22.-The Ada.m
son eight-hour law was held unconstitu
tional here to-day by Judge William C
Hook In the I.'nlled States district court
Tho court made it plain that the derision
was not based on mature consideration
the merits of the case but on
of
(t'onf llllleil on page two.)
New Vork. Nov. 22. That the epidemic
of Infantile paralysis in this city tlie past
summer originated in Norway in ir-'S
and mav icap;.ear heie was the assertion
to-night of Dr. .simon Klexner, director
of research in the Rock'li I'.cr Institute.
In mi tiddK.-i- tn the Brnnklyn Institute
of Artt, and Si ionic?, he said that as
to the future of the disease in this coun
try bo feared It had "spread too far"
and income too firmly entrenched ever
to Iv eradicated. He added, however, ho
KiR confident Us icappciiranro would bo
sporadic.
"Tho nutbre'i!- of last summer was in
tho nature of a phenomenon," said Pr.
Klexner, "for re vi r in tlio history of the
world has so rr.;i'iy cases of the disease
been conllm (1 to one locality. The last
previous appearance of infantilo paraly
sis in large numbers wan in Norway in
lWll and near Rutland, Vt., when, in 1CC',
about 200 cases were reported, New
York's plague of last .iiinmn .- litis sln-e
traveled around the globe."
amnion minu -iiiniiiNii vvnr v of.
..a... ,-ar... .......... .-. ......( i.Minrr.
mn meeting anil dinner at Millor'.i
last evening. Among tho speakers
rauui -( oi, Pico i., i oornaSi a. vv .
ly of Bane, J, fl. Norton and Thoma-i
er Tlin .Me.xl' an situation wiih the
Olnai tome (II (1. ( ti.-K o I Iiv (lie v;ir .
rpeakerH, Colonel Thninaa telling of
bonier experiences! and Mr. (Jradv ol
I'i', p. in ,tr.LU, niimu III) llim iU
I fjr several years,
GED WOMAN BURN EI).
of Scnlitlug Wnler Ovrrturnpil on
Airs. SiiNnn llodgc.
mtpiller, Nov 22, Mrs. .Susan (lodge
last Montpeller Center Is suffering
i burns which (die rccclvt d Tuesdaji
a a pall of scalding water was over
(.d, tho contenta falling on her left
Mrs Dodge, who in 76 years old,
probauiy i jver.
Co-operative Karmers' Asso. j
Richmond. Nov. 22. There win a large J
atlenilanre at tho Richmond i o-opcrativo 1
Farmers' association meeting hold in tho
now thcitrn yesterday afternoon nnd eve
ning, 2i) being In ntteiiil.iiuc fiom sur
rounding towns. Dinner v.a" teivcd in
iv T. hall by the grange. The followim:
wero tho siei)kers: riovernnr Chailc.i W.
Hates; r-harlea J. Brand, chiei of tlio of.
lice of markets, Washington, I). C ; Ii. H.
Raw), chief of the 'airv division, Wash
ington, D. C. ; .1. C. rcittt, fiom the Bos I
ton Chamber of Con noire, C. 13. Savoy, ,
editor New K.ngiand Homestead. Spilng- '
Held, Mass.; I3. S, Brigham. Slate icmi- !
missioner of agrjoulture; Dean J. L
Hills, Vermont Stato exporlnu nt station j
.1. P. 'I iiilnr, fei rotary fireater Vermont !
asi.oolutlon; Willis N. duly, master of Hie '
Stato grunge
'.V. C. T. K. CONVI3NTION AD.I'il'RNS.
Iiidlanapolis, lnd Nov. 22. The thirty
eighth annual convention of tho National
Women's Christian Teniporiinco Union
adjourned hero to-night.
Among tho speakers: at the day's ses
sions wan Richmond I'. Hobson of
Alabama. F.xplainlng the constitutional
amendment ho Intioduccd in Congress.
Mr. Hobson laild It was not tlio purposp
to make tho nation "dry" but In ntoi
the sale of Intoxicating lhpior.
A resolution commending ihe work o(
lh- federal employment bureau wasi
adupttu.
Santa Rosa, ("al , Nov. 2.'. Jack London,
tho author, died at Ids Clen Kllcn, Cat.,
ranch near here at 7;l.1 o'clock to-night,
i victim or uremic poisoning. Ixindnn
was taken ill ia.st night and vvas lound
unconscious early to-day by a .servant
who went to his room lo awaken him.
Ills condition at lust alarmed his sis
ter, Mrs. Klla Shcpurd, who summoned
physicians from this city. It was at llrst
believed that the author was it victim ol
ptomaine poisoning hut later it developed
lie was suffering from a severe, form nf
uremia. Dr. .1. Wilson Sliiels of San
I'ranciseo, , closo frimd of tile writer,
wan summoned during ihe day and de
flared that the patient's loudltion vvaa
serious.
From the time London was found this
morning he did not regain conscious
ness. About midday he iicuned to riilh
lint later suffered a relapse ;uid sank
rapidly until the emi came.
Resides Irs sister, Mrs. Sliepard. Lon
don 1" survived by ii. daughter, who is
a student at the Cnlversity of Califor
nia, his mother, who lives m Oakland,
Oil., and liis wile. Uharmlun London.
Mrs. London wan with l.er husband
when death eumo.
London would have been forty. one
years old on January 12.
Mr, olid Mis. London recently return
ed from a sojourn of s. veiul months in
tlie Hawaiian isl mils and have been
living on their lil.-n Hlbn ranch, on
of the most c iaborntely i;iijipped li
northern California.
NI3W PASTOR AT CLARI3NDON.
j Rutland, Nov. 21. The Rev. John L.
! Hoblon, a former resident of Clan ndon,
'was to-day installed as pastor of the
'Congregational Churr.li al Clarendon
! which has been without a tegular clergy
I man for some time, i'mler a oonsolida
j run agn i uu'iit made some time ago by
which the Rutland church assists the
.smallc- parish financially, Mr llnlden
becomes assistant paslor of the Congre
gational Church in this city. Tlie Rev.
Paul Dwighl Moody of St. .lohnsbiiry
delivered tlie installation sermon, the
Rev. Charles II. Merrill of St. Johns-bury
il' liven d tlie (barge to the pastor and
the Rev. Walter Thorpe of Brandon tho
chargo to tho people.
A woman who ban learned to read the
ads for prifit is nut likely to outgrow the
habit
PRES. WILSON THANKS
JOHN M. PARKER
New Orleans, La , Nov, 22. John M.
Parker, who was the progressive) nomi
nee for vico-picHiilcni, mailt! public to
night a loiter from President Wilson ex
pressing appreciation of Mr. Parker'H
stippnrl dining the recent campaign. The
letter read:
".My Dear Mr. Parker:
"Now that th" campaign Is over, may
I not loll you how my admiration lias
been excited by your course of action, a
course marltid by principle, self-respect,
generosity anil a high sense of public
duty? I hope that it will bo possible
for mo some ilmo to express In person
my warm feeling of admiration and ap
preciation. "Cordially and simcrely your.",
"WOOUKOW WILSON."
A PROCLAMATION
Bv h.uies Winslow Hates.
inventor cf 'bo State if Vermont.
Time has brought to ii nn ilhor tea
ton bountlfullv laden with ihe good
things f Ho" ''""' evolved In good feel
ing and hcibhv gtoivrh it is there
fore fitting 'ha' wo stop for u day and
siiuare tliinc- with tho Hreat (liver of
all.
, Charles Winslow Hates, (iovcrnor
of Vermont. ' hereby designate
Thursday. U'0 :'otM l,;lv "f Nov ember
A. D. V.I1C. as
THANKS'II VINtl DAY
And may we, as a united people, give
praise to an all-vviso Providence for
Hie multitude of blessings thin an
nuls. Let the da include inanifestatinns
ot gratitude. :k ts of kindness- and
deeds of charity, thill in so doing vve
may show profound appreciation m
acknowledgment ,,f xi" manv betie
llts received from it Jdft and wise Hod.
(liven under ml' band and tlie great
seal of lb" Kioto. R Montpeller, tills
1Mb day of November, In the yea,. f
Our Lord, one thouuiind nine hundred
and sixteen. "f ""' '"dependence
of tlie l'nlted Stales, the one hundred
and forty-Hi'"'
l'RL13S WlNSUlW HAT-US.
tlo ei nof.
Hi the ilovci'iior
BI3NJAMIN OATKS.
Secretary of ''Iv" '""1 -Military Affairs
COL CHARLES H. iGQNFEREES MAY
ROYGE IS DEAD' YET GET TOGETHER
Congressman from Vermont, '7 1
to S0, Dies at Pittslield,
Mass.
American-Mexican Commission
Still Hopeful of Amicable
Agreement.
Pittslield. Mass, Nov 22 Col.
Charles II lio.vio. congressman from
Vermont from 1st I to issn, died to-day
at the hotel in this city where lie laid
made his home for some 10 .vears. lie
was Sfi years old and leaves a son. Dr.
C. P. K. Royoo of Kingston, N. II. Six
weeks ago tin was attacked by bron
chitis and never rallied. The body
will be taken to Rutland, which he
represented in tlie Legislature of ISfifl,
lor burial.
Charles II Rnyce was born In Whor
well, Hiigland, January "0, lSSO, the
son ot Charles and .Martha 13. (Crist)
Joyce. Ho came to this country with
Ills parents in lSSfi. and settled in
Waltslleld. He early worked on a farm
and attended district school winters
until he was is v ears of age, when he
left Hie farm and attended the Walts
Held and Nortbt'ebl Academies and
Ncw biirv Seminary
Knr lliree fesslnus he wa.c a page in
jibe House of Representative."., was assist
ant librarian one year, and librarian one
I year, lie taught school several terms, at
the same time purruing Ills legal studies
under the Hon K. K Ab rrill of Mont
peller and lati r Col. !'. V. Randall of
Nnrtbdebl.
He win admitted lo the bar of Wash
ington county hi IST'?. and commenced
the practise of law at Nortblleld in 15.Vi.
He was letied State's attorney of Wash
ington county the next year and again
in IVi;. In PCI he vvas appointed major
of the Second Regiment Vermont volun
teer Infantiy. the llrst three years' regi
ment to leave Hie State, and in June fol
lowing wa sprninotcil lo llcuicnant-coloncl
In tin same regiment, lie fought with
his regiment from Hull Run In 1'red
crlokshui'g In January, PGI, bo was
compelled to resign bis commission be
cause of a Fivere disability contracted
during the campaign of 1061.
Re moved then to Rutland and took up
lite practise of bis profession. In 1ST0
be was speaker of tlie House and repre
sented bis district 111 Congress from
is? I to 1SS0.
His wife was Rouotie Morris Randall ol
Nortblleld
Atlantic Cltv, N. J.. Nov. 22. With
the announcement to-night that the
Mexican-American Joint commission
would meet again to-mnrinw "as
usual," tho prospect was believed to
bo fairly bright for an amicable agree
ment being reached for border control
and protection of American lives and
property in the neighboring republic
It was bar'. ed to-night, however,
that tho Mexican representatives had
not yet sent to their government a re
port of tho presentation of the Amer
ican proposals, which were described
iis represetitiii'i tho final attitude ol
tho United States.
It became known to-night that the
commissioners have considered a slight
alteration of the American proposal
which. If signed to, would make prob
able an agrceiuint. Th" real stumbling
block, It wan explained, is tlie determina
tion of the Americans- not to have any
restrictions placed on the Ami rlcan gov
ernment .-.hould the occasion again arise
for sending troops across tlie border into
Mexico uftir raiders. It whs pointed out
I bat the suggested alteration would not
materially change tlie program whllo lit
tle would be added to the strength of
the agreement by forcing the Mexicans
lo sign a document in which there was
actually conceded tho right of the Ameri
can government to unlimited and unre
stricted pursuit of bandits In Mexico.
The same object, It vvas suggested, could
be accomplished If that point were not
mentioned In the formal agreement.
CHICAGO DIET SQUAD
ENJOYS ITS KOOD
TIIRI3W CARHO OV13RROARD.
Maisclllcs, Nov. 22. Tlie Creek steamer
Rilssos bin ill lived heie and reports that
she was Hopped by n submarine which
seized RS sacks of mail and forced her
to throw her cargo overboard.
.New Ibiulnnd Hulled Dinner Hill of
dire for To-dn.v.
Chicago. Nov. '.".-Tho dieting dozen ot
health hoard employes who are attempt
ing to demonstrate that a person can livo
healthfully and well on 10 cents si day
llnlshcd the llrst day of a two weeks' test
to-day. No one complained Hint tlio din
ner to-night vvas not enough, but Jack
Spratt never left the platter cleaner than
any one of these.
To-morrow 's menu Is;
Breakfast Applet, rolled o.tts, biscuit
nnd butter, coffee.
Lunch Puree of lima beans, Salisbury
steak, chocolate, blanc mange, bread nnd
butter, tea.
Dinner-New lOrigland Willed dinner,
raisin loaf, cake, cocoa.
expediency desired by ail parties at In
terest because of tho rieiosslty of a Una
decision by the Supreme Court of the
t'ttlted States before January next, when
the law goes Into effort.
Thp Ipgnl moves In the proie.-s of send
ing the raff direct to the highest cour'
of the land wore snmpwhnt involved frm .
the lay point of views, but the lawyers
oncerned rushed tin- matter through
with a speed seldom witnessed in court'"
of law Ju-t what action Attornov
iifiior.il Gregory would take remained ,i
(inuely gtinriloii oerot until lostordav
who, Frank Iligi niian. retained as spe.
cial ' "tinsel to row-i out tlio federal gov
ernment In t.p . vitddoulv set tio bal
mltlne b al;inr .1 ,dge. Hook to instrurt
the liveivci- for the .Missouri, okti'ioi i
.i Half railroad complainant In ae ir
inni'tlnn suit, to mln with the defendn"
in proceedings which would cons ',-0 rh
case on its morils to tho Supr me Court
To-d.iy these events look place in court
by agreement :
1 Counsel tor the receivers asked that
their bill for nn injunction be granted
and tin Adamson law be declared null
and void
2 Mr Hagerman, for the government,
asked the court to dlsmis the bill and
to declare the law constitutional
"The court overruled Mr. Hagerman
and declared the law Invalid.
4 Preparation of a transcript of the
evidence for presentation to the supreme
court was begun and It was expected that
tin- mails would deposit copies in Wash
ington by Saturday.
."Counsel for the receivers vias in
structed to notify counsel for nil rail
roads of the moves made bore and tr. in
vite them to join in the case before tip!
supreme court.
The present ea."o. tn the view if Mr.
Hngermnn, provides all the fnctAri neces
sary for a test case, hut ir was said bv
James Uunlap of the legal staff i f tho
Atchison, Topoka .t Santa J'o that anions
lawyers there is tome difference of opinion
on ibis point. He said that in snm
quarter II was thought that perhaps- one
r two additional tost cases should be
brought to afford a wider ranee of in
uulry and analysis
The Missouri. Oklahoma Gulf railroad
is in the hands of a reeelvi r and tlin
receiver could do only as directed bv
Judge Hook, who has the final t.iy In 'ho
direction of the road's affairs. Mr Dun
lap said that certain additional Mi"
phasi s of the law might dove!, p n a
case where the complainant w t- inde
pendent. The case of tho Santa Fe is sebedul'-d
to come up before Judge I'ollnrk in tl e
t'niteil States district court in Kansas
City, Kansas, to-morrow. There war
much Interest as to what effect, If any,
Judge Hook's decision would have r.n tbu
case. Mr. Dunlap said that unt'l the
arrival to-morrow of his associate?, hn
could not predict what action would be
taken. Mr. Hagerman was similarly at
sea. although ho said be saw no reason
why every nue.uion involving the Santa
Kc and all other railroads could not be
settled by to-day's test case
One risult ot the proceedings' in .Tuelg
Hook's court wns the elimination o(
brotherhood chairmen of Kansas as de
fendants in the action. Tinted States
District Attorney Francis .M, Wilson re
mained the orjy defendant.
Washington, Nov. 22. Attorney-General
Gregory and lawyers representing most
of the Important railroad systems ot thn
country wero in conference several hours
to-day but failed to agree on terms by
which one of the many railroad suits at
tacking the Adamson act might be madr'
a test and expedited to the Supreme Court
for an early decision on Its constitution
ality. Both the attorney-general and the rail
road counsel declined to name the point
of disagreement, but it was understood
that both parties still arc of tho opinion
that a lest case should be had and that
the mam question is In selecting tlie par
ticular case. The conferenic wot be re
sumed to-morrow.
Tho department of justice is said rj
have Insisted that the case of tho Mis
souri. Oklahoma & Gulf, in which Fed
oral Judge Hook in Kansas City to-day
held tho Adamson act unconstitutional,
should bo mado tho test case. Tho rail
road attorneys however were not con
vinced that tho Issues presented in it suf
ficiently broad to cover all points that
might be developed against the Adam
son iiet tn a case involving a much larger
property. They wero inclined to insi
tli.it the Atchison. Topek.i & Santa Fa
case which is set for hearing to-morrow
at Kansas city, would prevent the (ties
Hon ill issue more completely and with
more Justice to the carriers.
Railroad lawyers said conditions on
different roads might be vastly different,
and that while the Adamson law might
not be conllsiatory applied to one road
It might If applied to another where the
territory traversed yields dissimilar re
turns, whore the expenses are not the sariK
and where oilier Important factors are
f.ir from Identical.
There was no Indication to-night that
the differences cannot be reconciled. The
Missouri. Oklahoma .vV Cult casa,
brought by a federal receiver, subject t
the authority of Judge Hook hlnisolt,
might be pressed to an early conclusion
in the Supremo Court without the con
currence of the other railroads ot tin
country. If this were done, however, the
department of justice might be compelled
to defend any number of other suits
which the railroads Interested would
press on the ground that the iiiicstloni
Involved wero not Identical with those
covered,
KMILY MONTACl'B BISHOP DICAP,
New York, Nov. 22. Mrs. K.mlly
Montague Bishop, author, lecturer,
health culturlst and a pioneer in tho
right for e(ii!il suffrage, died at a bos
pltal here to-day at the age of fiD years.
Shn was the widow of Coleman Bishop
once editor of "Judge." Mrs. Bishop
was born at Korcstvillr, N. V.
