NORTHWEST WORKER
OFFICIAL OU<; AN 01 THE SOCIALIST PARTI OF SNO IOMISII AND STEVENS COUNTIES
k per copy : $1.00 per year.
MORE OF OUR DEAD IN FIGHT FOR FREEDOM
Death Toll Demanded in Struggle for Emancipation from Wage Slavery
WHY?
Why these dead bodies, with
their voiceless testimony of in
human jrreed anf | murderous
savagery. Victims of murder
foul and unapproachable, along
side of them the Commercial
Club advocates want the dead
bodies of over a hundred other
workers!
Upper left, Felix Barun; I'pptr ri^ht, Huso Gerlot; Central group. Fellow Workers Tooney, Gerlot, Baran and Rabinowitz; Lower left, John Tooney; Lower right, Abraham Rabinowitz.
ALL FOR THE CAUSE.
J{> WILLIAM MORRIS
(This; grsat poem by the famous English Socialist and artist is
peculiarly applicable to the death of those Worker 3 who were mur
dered by the "Citizens Committed," of Everett, Sunday, November 5,
1916).
Hear a word, a word in season, for the day is drawing nigh
When the Cause shall call upon us, . erne to live and some to die!
He that dies shall not die lonely, many a one hath gone before.
He that lives shall bear no burden heavier than the life they bore.
Nothing ancient is their story, c'en but yesterday tb"y bled,
Youngest they of earth's beloved, last of all the valient dc:id.
In the grave where tyrants thrust them, lies their labor and their pain,
But undying from their sorrow, apringeth up the hope again.
Mourn not, therefore, not lament it, that the world outlives their life;
Voice and wisdom yet they give us, making our hands for strife,
Some had name and lame and honor, learned they w#re and wise and
strong;
Some were nameless, poor, unlette i d, weak in all but grief and wrong,
Named and nameless all live in v ; one and all they lead us yet,
Every pain to count for nothing, every sorrow to forget,
Hearken how thej cry, "0 happy, happy ye that ye were born
"In the sad, slow night's departing, in the rising of the morn.
"Fair the crown the Cause hath for you, well to die or well to live
"Through the battle, through the tangle, peace to gain oi peace to
give."
Ah, it niiij be! Oft meseemeth, in the days that yet shall be',
When no slave of '.'old abideth 'twixi the breadth of sea to sea,
Oft, wheii men and maid i are merry, ere the sunlight leaves the earth,
And they bless the day beloved all too Bhort for all their mirth,
Some shall pause awhile and pondi ron thi bitti i daj of old,
■de toil of strife and battle overthrow the cvi c of gold.
Then 'twixt lips of loved and lover- solemn thought «■ -i "all i.•• ,
We who once were fools and dreamers, then shall !>«■ the brave .4* 1 * -t
Then amidsi the world new-builded shall our eai hi deed abide,
Though our names be all forgotten, and tit tale <t ho* \v<> died.
Life or death then, who -I,all heed it, what we gain or whai we li
Fair flies life amid the struggle, and the Cause foi each shall ehi
SUBSCRIBE NOW—ONE DOLLAR PER YEAR
EVERETT, WASHINGTON, THURSDAY, NOV. 23, 1916.
HUGO GERLOT
Above is a photo of Ihe body of
I Hugo Gerlot, aged 22, an inoffensive
sailor lad who was singing "Hold the
Fort" when he fell on the deck of the
death ship.
He was shot twice through the
head, in both arms, in the hip and in
the leg by the heavily armed am
bushed deputies. Though mortally
wounded he raised himself and tried
to continue the song, but fell back
dead.
Was he not a martyr' I'm free
speech.
Contrast his death with the pub
lished storj of the alleged deputy on
the dock, who when wounded raised
himself on his arm to continue the
murderous fire into the struggling
ma of humanity on the Verona
which was backing away from the
city where constitutional lights have
been disregarded so long.
WOMEN RELEASED
.\li:. Mahler and Mrs. Peters, who
■ ■ arre ted in connection with the
Sunday battle when they arrived in
Seattle, have been released as no
charge could be brought against (hern.
Mis. Frenette is still in jail, waiting
bond of $2,500, charged with
attempting i<> throw pepper in the
of Sheriff Mcßae as be was be
ing taken from the city dock in an
auto. She was out on :• I ,000 bail at
thi I ime lor unlawful assembly.
HEAUQI VIM Kits REOPENED
The headquarters of the I. W. W.
in Everett has been reopened at I"]1'
Hewitt Aw. Anybody wishing t<i
subscribe to the defen . fund of th«
men now charged with murder can
turn ii tin 1 money € ,t he lit o t place]
Bargreen'a <;< ldt n Unit 1 oi i.•<■ im
pvrial Tea to, 14'>7 Hewnt Avenue.
THREE MEMBERS KILLED
AT EVERETT KUKIED
Without the services of a minister
Felix Baran, Hugo Gerlot and John
Tooney, three members of that or
ganization who were killed aboard the
steamer Verona on November 5, were
buried at Mount Pleasant cemetery
Saturday afternoon.
The services were conducted by the
officials of the Seattle branch of the
I. W. W. and consisted of a funeral
cortege from the mortuary parlors of
the Home Undertaking company, tfth
avenue and Union street, Seattle,
where ln'B marching members of the
organization formed er parade and ac
companied the three automobile
hearses bearing the bodies of the de
ceased members.
Lecturer Conducts Service
Headed by Dewey's band, employed
by the organization for the occasion,
the cortege moved west on Union
treel to Second avenue, (hence to
Pine Btreel and to First avenue, which
latter thoroughfare was followed to
Queen Anne avenue and Mercer street
where street car's conveyed the
marchers to the cemetery. At the
tide of the grave Charles Ashleigh,
lecturer of the Seattle branch of the
organization, spoke briefly as the
bodies were being consigned to the
i In cc graves, side by side.
No Demonstration
No d< monstration marked either
the funeral procession oi the simple
ceremonial ;»t the graves Each
I marchei in the parade wore a rod cai
nation oi «» red i<> f in lu> buttonhole
and h* the earth was filled over tl»t
coffins each man filed past and to
. 1 Ins floral pffei ing on the g i
Sevei al sei purr . three from differ
enl trades unions and cut' from the
I. \\ W organization, were |iliu-<-(! on
the interment plol
FOR THE ONLY USEFUL CLASS IN SOCIETY—THE WORKING CLASS
ALWAYS WRONG
In almost every one, if not in every
one, of the greatest political contro
versies of the last fifty years, wheth
er they affected the franchise, wheth
er they affected commerce; whether
they affected religion, whether they
affected the bad and abominable in
stitution of slavery, or what subject
they touched, these leisured classes,
these educated classes, have been in
the wrong.—William Ewart Glad
stone, English statesman.
RELEASED BLAME
THE VIGILANTES
After being held iir the city jail of
.Seattle for !> days without a charge,
one bundle;! and twenty-eight mem
bers of the 1. W. W. were released on
Monday, the 13th, while the rest are
being held, pending charges of mur
der beirrg placed against them. The
released men all place the blame for
the murders at Everett on the shoul
d<"■.- of the vigilantes.
FRED MOORE ON THE JOH
Attorney Fred Moore, of Los An
geles, who is to defend the I. W. W.
prisoners, arrived in Seattle, on Sun
day, November 12th. Since his ar
rival, Attorney Moore has taken hun
dieds of depositions from the men
who have been released from jail; he
has visited the men held on a murder'
charge at Everett; and has done con
siderable preliminary work towards
setting the scenes for the legal <"on
flict. Attorney C. E. S. Woods, of
Portland, who in to act in an advisory
capacity in thi- case, is in Seattle.
Upholstering and Furniture Repair-
Ing neatly done by Svarrer Hros. 2811
Wetmore, rear of Kubbins Transfer
office.
WHEN?
Workers of America, what is
your answer to the appeal of
your dead?
The men who fired on a boat
load of passengers are free,
their victims are in the morgue
or in the jail on charges of mur
der. Will you do your share to
defend your fighters? When?
A PROPHECY
Written During the Revolutionary
War by Thomas Jefferson
The spirit of the times may alter,
will alter. Our rulers v/ill become cor
rupt, our people careless. A single
zealot may become persecutor, and
better men his victims. It can never
be too often repeated that the time
for fixing essential right, on a legal
basis, is while our rulers are honest,
ourselves united. FROM THE CON
CLUSION OF THIS WAR WE
SHALL BE GOING DOWN HILL. It
will not then be necessary to resort
every moment to the people for sup
port. They will be forgotten, there
fore, and their rights disregarded.
They will forget themselves in the
sole faculty of making money, and
will never think of uniting to effect
a due respect for their lights. The
shackles, therefore, which shall not
be knocked off at the conclusion of
this war, will be heavier and heavier,
'till our lights shall revive or expire
in a convulsion.
As thou thyself, whoever thou art,
well made for the perfection and con
summation of a common society; so
must every action of thine tend to the
perfection and consummation of a life
i that is truly sociable. Whatever ac
tion of thine that, either immediately
or afar off, hath not reference to the
common good, that is an exorbitant
ami disorderly action; yea, it is sedi
tious; a: one among the people who
from a general consent and unity
should facetiously divide and separate
himself. V
emperor, \ D, 12]
Thin their root and their
; completion. It cannot be that ■
the i leglected,
from it will be well o
fucius.
No. 307.
LIBERTY
By Walt Whitman
Those corpses of Young men,
Those martyrs that hang from the
gibbets—those hearts pierved
by gray lead,
Cold and motionless as they seem,
live elsewhere with unslaugh
tered vitality.
They live in other young men, 0
kings!
They live again in brothers ready to
defy you!
They were purified by death—they
were taught and exalted.
Not a grave of the murdered for free
dom, but grows seed for free
dom, in its turn to bear seed,
Which the winds carry afar and re
sow, and the rains and the
snows nourish.
Not a disembodied spirit can the
weapons of tyrants let loose,
But it stalks invisibly over the earth,
whispering, counciiing, cau
tioning.
Liberty! let others despair of you!
I never despair of you;
la the house shut? le the master
away?
Nevertheless, be ready—be not weary
of watching;
He will return soon—his messengers
come anon.
ABRAHAM ROBTNOWITZ
"I'm dying, boys, but don't give up.
Lift me up. I want to sing the 'Red
Flag' again," said Abraham Robino
witz. As his name indicates, he be
longed to the race long without a
flag. Who will deny him one in
death ? He was shot in the back of the
hejd by a high-power rifle bullet.
Trying to sing, he breathed his last
in the arms of his friend—himself an
eai nest-faced lad of 18 years. He,
too, was hit in the back by a spent
rifle bullet.
Is the lad or the man who fired
from ambush, the more dangerous
character?
Following is the song he tried to
sing. It was written by James Con
nelly, the Irish revolutionist, who
was executed by the English govern
ment for his activities in the recent
uprising in Ireland:
The Red Flag
The workers' flag is deepest red,
.fhiouded oft, our martyred dead;
[ And ere their limbs grew stiff and
cold
Their life-blood dyed its every fold.
CHORUS:
Then raise the scarlet standard high
Beneath its folds, we'll live and die,
Though cowards flinch and traitors
sneer,
We'll keep the red flag flying here.
Lood 'round, the Frenchman loves its
blaze,
The sturdy German chants its praise;
In Moscow's vaults, its hymns are
sung,
Everett swells its surging song.
It waved above our infant might
When all ahead seemed dark ai
night
It witnessed many a deed and vow,
We will not change its color now.
It suits today, the meek and base,
Whose minds are fixed on pelf and
place;
To cringe beneath the rich man's
frown,
And haul that sacred emblem down.
With heads uncovered, swear we all,
To bear it onward till we fall;
Come dungeons dark, or gallows
grim,
This song shall be OUT parting hymn!
WE MIST CROSS THE LINE
We must some day, at last ami fo]
ever, cross the line between Non
and Common Sense. And on that clay
we shall pass from Class Paternalism,
originally derived from fetish fiction
in time of universal ignorance, to
Human Brotherhood in accordance
with the nature of things and our
growing; knowledge of it; from 1..
litical Government to Industrial Ad
ministration; from Competition in In
dividualism to Individuality in Co-op
eraton; from War and Despotism, in
to Peace and Libei
Thomas Carlyle, famous Britisl
t and historian of the French
Revolution.
