HOME EDITION
j
r
TODAY'S PRICES
?Jxi a.n i-ia.nl, not3 state bills 100
1 ' l - -x M tiCAn gold. 49c, na-
lo.iilf. T.u, bar ihT, H AIL quo-
t,r '-n w rr 1ifttocK ead, stocks
ir regular
Efe.
c MBRs.EM)
LATEST NEWS BY ASSOCIATED PRESS. single copt five cknts.
EL PASO. TEXAS. THURSDAY EVENING, NOVEMBER 13. 1916.
DEI.ITKP.EP ANVAIILRE 6'e A MONTH
WEATIIKK FORECASTS.
Kl Pao ami -w-t Tmb, fair, con
tinued cold. New Mexico, fair. Arizona,
fair: frot.
FOURTEEN PAGES TODAY.
ermany Says
4
CHIHUAHUA
unk, Used Guns
Ten American Government
Inquiries Sent to Germany;
Five Filed In Day.
II. S. IS 1 ILIES PROTEST ! REJECTS DEMANGiSGHOOL ill HAMMERED ST BK
IBBIIS U. S.CJPA LDAW
Secretary Lansing Says the Send Note to Pekin Declar-;
Matter is Purely a Do- ing Agreement Violated
mestic Affair.
U. S. WONDERS IF
Germany Has Fairly Con
vincing Answers For Four
Of the Interrogations.
Washington. D. G, Nov. 25. "The de
partment of state has no views on the
subject of the proposed food embargo,"
secretary Lansing said today. , "That
is purely a domestic question."
The department, he said, has neither
urged, proposed nor discussed such
embargo as he does not think it con-
PJ?()fJJ7 RROKFN ' cerns International relations in any
! Kttch nctlnrv it If; antri. could hardlv
be objected to by any f jrelgn govern-
I' ment In view of the fact that they have
taken such action where necessary for
public safety.
No similarity could be drawn, it was
said, between the proposed embargo
j and the shipment of munitions.
- via
MIS5I1DUI
SESSION STORMY
. ERLIN Germany. Nov.
wireless to The Associated
Sayvllle, L. L, Nov. 2;
period of complications may agi
impending In German-American rela
tions Germany's conduct of submar
ine warfare has brought forth an
Abundant crop of American inquiries j
of which Joseph C Grew, the Ameri- j
can charge, recently has filed no less j .p.yrnaTl
than ton fiv nf thorn tndat. Six re- t JCXX110ill
-. ..... ..... ... ... . - j
main to be answered, including the j JtTOteStS VI JJUDia Keier tO
cases on the Marina, on which a num- , MiSerV Of- Population.
fcer of Americans appear to have bees J
killed anc! the liner Arabia, the sink- j Berlin. Germany. Nov. 23. By wire
ing of which the American government , jesg to Sayvllle. L. T.) Almost all the
declares appears to be inconsistent parties in the Russian duma joined in
eminent regarding the treatment or I
passenger liners.
Arabia Torpedoed Wfthont Warnlmr.
and Asking Explanation.
Pekin. China. Nov. 23 The British,
French, Russian and Japanese bank
ers of the quintuple group haTe sent
a letter to the minister of finance,
saying that the loan arranged for with
the Chicago banks violates article 17
of the reorganization loan agreement
of April 2C, 1913. The letter declares
the loan is political and not industrial
and asks for an explanation.
The Chinese parliament recently
unanimously approved a loan of $5,
000,000 in gold made to the Chinese
government by the Continental and
Commercial bank of Chicago. The loan
was said to be for Immediate admin
istrative needs.
BWEESRHEE
OF ENTENTE
:
I
Declares Surrender Would
Be Flagrant Violation of
Her Neutrality.
MUST BEABLE TO
DEFEND INTERESTS
OTT GOWdL OIEBHK Lffff
Playgrounds Called "A Piece of Eot" By One Alderman
School Board Member Says Forty Cents Would
Have Sufficed For Levy If It Hadn't Been
For the High School.
F
Reply Answers Contention
Of Entente Regarding
Yielding to Enemies.
L
Agency Reports !
' Liondon. Kng . Nov 23 Another raid
on Zeelrugge was made Thursday bv
, British aircraft and it Is reported that
with the promises of the German gov- a protest against the Russian govern- j a German destroyer was hit by a bomb.
uraB" ul ment at a recent stormy session, ac- J The official account of the attack de-
cording- to th Overseas News agency clares:
The United States bases its atti
tude in the cd.se of the Arabia bn'tho.
Assumption- thai it was unarmedand f
torpedoed vithout warning and is un
able to see that there was adequate
justification for forcing the passengers
Into the boats. Washington believes
the submarine commander, on ascer
taining that there were women and
children on the decks, should have re
frained from making an attack
Arabia Vrd Her Guns, Say Germany.
Germany, in the four cases in re
gard to which replies already have
been made, has fairly convincing an
swers, which it is believed may put
a different aspect on affairs. It Is
pointed out here for example, that,
according to testimony of her own pas
sengers, the Arabia was armed and
used her cannon, that the sea was
vmooth and that other essels were
near It is argued that the Arabia,
having on board a large number of
coolie war workers, should be regarded
as a tr-ansDort.
Officials Won't DicIoe Details. '
Washington. D. C, Nov. 23. The !
wording of the Berlin dispatch that ''a i
penoa or complications may be 1m
i end.ng- in German-American relations."
aroused much interest in official cir
;es, especially as
lowed to pass a very
Officials refused to disclose details of
the inquiries sent to Berlin on the
ground that they were only inquiries
T'pr fact and ould have a very bad ef
fe. t on pablii opinion if an alarm were
gj en onlv to bv shown groundless.
Some Cane erluux.
Many of the cases now being inves
tigated, it is admitted, may fail to de
velop any violation ofGennany's pledges
tut some are known to be serious.
In the Marina case. American affi
cavits seem inclusive but no action
will be take i until Germany's replv has
been receieU.
which says
-Prof. Paul Mllukoff. leader, of the
constitutional DemocratsT hrlfcngly"
criticising the government, gave ex
pression to the sorrow and. misery of
the Russian population. The leader of
the. Nationalist right wing, M. Balas
hef, declared that confusion was reign
ing within the government.
On the same day. hte news agency
continues, there was a stormy session
of the council of the empire during
which M. Chtcheglovltoff, former min
ister of justice, assailed the roles as
ONDON. Eng.. Nov. 23. The Greek
government has refused to com
ply with the demand of the en
tente allies for the surrender of part
of Its supplies of arms and ammuni
tion. P.euter's Athens correspondent
cables
The dispatch follows:
... , T" , "The Greek government has refused
-British Machines .Return , the demands of vice admiral Du Four-
Rafelv fi-ermnn TjPRT.rnV- ! net lhat Greece surrender 18 field
J ' - 'I batteries, lfi hnttorlp nf nnnntatn ar
tillery witji 1000 shells for each. 40.000
Mannlichers (rifles) with 210 cartridges
each; lot machine guns with ammuni
tion and 50 motor jns.
Protected Centra! Power' Seizure.
"Referring to admiral Du Fournefs
contention that the cession of war ma
terial to the Bulgarians and Germans
had disturbed the equilibrium, the gov
ernment replies that although it does
not desire to enter into the details of
that operation. It must point out that
could not
er "Wrecked.
ROM 18:30 oclock Thursday morn
ing to 1 oclock In the afternoon.
Mc-
sign ,
IS MADE
i
sign at the Garden theater: H. R,
Litmucn. lur perron 10 erect a Sinn . Y7.11. a jr T ,T T"
the city council hammered at the permit to instal a gasoline filling sta- ' y " iriuvc ivuilll 1 IUIII
school board to cut the school tax rate
from 49 to 45 cents, but the school
board Invited examination of its bud
get and stood pat After the Joint ses-
tion at Magoffin and Alameda avenues. I
To water and sanitary committee
Mt. Franklin country club for water
connection.
To street and grades committee
slon at the city hall ended, the school ! P'?1" IL h?u,nardf .2ird '?"
.., .. . . ... -. -,v i fantry, for permit to use West Frank-
A11 our maohlnes returned."
board decided to meet at 7:30 oclock
tonight at the Bailey'school.
Talk "nnln" of Credit.
The "ruin" of the city's credit if the
school board insisted on levying 49 j
cents of its legal 50 cent limit, was the J
gist of the city council's assault on the j
board's figure. There were slurs, also. I
at the playgrounds, which alderman .
Fisher called "a piece of rot." and at ,
superintendent Tisbe, who. the board
admitted, fixed the number of teachers j
hired and who was therefore held re-
sponsible by the council for the schools'
20.000 a month payroll.
"Superintendent TIghe isn't as vitally
Interested in the tax rate as we are."
mayor Lea said. "He may or may not
own property here. I don't know."
"I pay taxes here, and at present I
am building a house here." said super
intendent Tighe. "I have lived in El
Paso three years."
Hoard Explain.
The board met the council's attack
with explanations that the new high
school was to blame for Its 9 cent
tax rate.
lin street for carnival from December
11 to IS.
FOREOTIE
IS 7 BILLION
Horcasitas; Murguia To
Attack Bandits' Rear.
GEN. TREVINO WILL
DEFEND CAPITAL
i
i Ammunition Rushed South
From Juarez to Aid the
City's Defence.
.,-.. ,.. ...,., .. -.. I the cabinetlhen in power
-" ' " .-.- iiMnpivfla fsr Aelet4nnA & am
I? sll.K 5? J"1 powers without abandoning neutrality.
London. Eng, Nov. 23. The Dutch but duly protested. It also contends
steamer Helina. from Rotterdam for that the guns already taken by the
New York in ballast, has been sunk by entente are modern, while those taken
mines In the North sea. according to a by Bulgaria were obsolete,
dispatch from Hull today to the Cen- ( Would Violate Neutrality.
tral News. i Tho rnlv rnnrluitM that th. iir-
No Dutch steamer Helina is listed in
available shipping records. There are
two Dutch steamers Helena, one of
17SS tons gross, and the other of 3146
render of war material for financial
compensation or otherwise would con
stitute a flagrant violation of neu
trality and moreover that public opin-
ister or Jusuce assaiieo. tne , i.s ions gross, ana the other of 3146 lon would not admit of the forces of. J ","'
being responsible for the proclamation j tons gros. The former was last report- Greece being so neutralized as to b catlon-
py uermany ana Ausirm oi a. mivuiu . ra j arriving at Koueraam on Aor. unable to defend her vital Interests if
or xuianu. I . iiujd .ew lurK
Washington. D. C, Nov. 23. Foreign J X BATTLE for the possession of
trade, as shown in a department of l Chihuahua chy is now in prost-
commerce statement today, reached , j- .
a total of 17.463.000.000 m the year - , !' accorduig to messages re
ending November l, ii.S09.oob.8oo in- . f"?1 l hu"aay by t-arranza officials
crease over 1915 and J2.SO8.090.0OO over . m Juarez and El Paso, stating that
,' Francisco Villa and his bandits at-
October export of. J490.6M.0W show tacted the state capital at 1 1 ocloc!
a decrease from September, but im- T,J,,, ; r- zr- i
port, of ii76.400.ooo represents a . i hu"d?y. rnrg. Carranza officii
growth of 112,400.000 over September. ; are Ptnistic that this battle may re
The falling in exports in October, trade suit in the final downfall of Villa am'
experts hold, was due to the season t- j ,i . "
-- "-- . . t "j iu.vk l i.uuuuueu uuonsioa . .f...
r orty oents would have surncea I of sales of American goods abroad. Roar or Artlirery Dentenlnx.
this rear if it hadn't been for the high I . . I An rtlll.r hh.ij:. rSTT.,.,
hWtl afrf n. r,.nantl,l rtt thm 1 . V 4m M & M no. . I tA. B ..T - n U U V lilA
school board. "We are paing 134,000
for furniture for the building, and we're
not extravagant, either. Engineers and
janitors have to be hired for it. The
people of EI Paso wanted a fine high j
school building and they've got it.
They're responsible for the 49 cent
rate.
"I can tell you the reason for this
year's increase in the tax rate." said
C. B. Stevens of the school board, "but
I'll tell you privately and not for publl-
H
: rmnaii.yu.ni
i
these were endangered."
RWMURE OlfETESTClSE
ORB Bffi IK NOT DECIDE
S5.758.2D FOR
CITFSSCRBOLS
Gettinsr Too Rich.
"The town's setting rich off the
troops, but the schools get not a penny
out of the children of army men we're
compelled to take. The city charges the
schools more for water than it charges
anybody else. If we cut down on the
number of playground teachers to save
expenses, we'll only hae to increase
en our other teachers Mayor Lea dosn't
like our playground system, but 80
percent of parents, in a vote we took
through the children, voted for them."
It was alderman R. B. Stevens who
insisted the city's credit would not
stand the proposed school levy.
New Tork, Nov. 23 The Adamson
law commission appointed by president
Wilson to investigate the operations of
the act. held its first meeting here to
day and conferred with more than a
Torces by the .20 Carranra: cannon sta
1 JJ.nea on Santa Rosa hill, south oi
, Chihuahua City, was in progress at 1:J
J- m-- a report received at the border
from the state capital stated. The
noise of bursting shells and discharging
Held pieces was said to be deafening.
Gen. Trevino is said by Carransa mili
tary officers to have 20 field pieces, a
number being French "seventy-five.'s."
These have been on hills to the south
and southwest of Chihuahua city
As far as known. Villa has no artil
lery other than machine guns which
were reported to have been captured
from a troop train belonging to Gen.
Fortunato Maycotte's column near
Santa Rosalia.
-Murguia to Attack Vllla.
Gen. Francisco Murgia. who was re-
Inf.n tiltmaf! ataa.,.,....., a v
' . , .,, . ' Ported to have reached Macula, about
nounced purpose of discussing infor- : 12 miles south of Chihuahua city, isex-mally-
with then the methods to be Pected to attack Villa from the rear
' used in the investigation. I ?,'fdin,V?t,i? '"formation. Gen Ja-
t-k. .., . ..-,. . ' Si"'"3! T.r?vlno ? i" command of the
. .., .wuiwiiooiwii . I1UIU 2b SIQUiBT
conference with the heads of the rail
road brotherhoods at a later date.
the disPatchcwascai: Seem To Be Abandoning i One or Two More Adamson ' Countv Education Board : 3?.eIl,j;oft 'ai-tnat v4,9 "nts and ; MAY PUT BAN 0N carrying
-F? ? censorship; m.,; . tw TJrlcn ! t o; ilt t. n --A I . tv .., r ' " ! opfhra" yfXHS JKTST ? i BEDDING IN PASSENGFR r
vrauttumo, umwuj unugv ( xjawomuj uiav dc wmucu Auuionzes warrants xo-
Over the Danube.
to the Supreme Court.
taling $7,776.98.
London, Eng., Nov. 23 Latest reports I Kansas City, Ma. Nov. 23. Counbel I
of the campaign Gen. von Falkenhayn in conference over the Adamson eight '
is waging against the Rumanians indi- . hour day law cases today agreed to
cate that the Teutonic forces are over- the request that the Santa Fe railroad's
SWS RHUS
ARERETIR1
V- t'-og' iu Russia, Nov 23. Th Hj
m n).an for es in the Jiul valley are
retiring under hostile pressure to
wards Grain a. the Russian war office
arnounce'J oday in its report on the
campaign on the Rumanian front.
Craiova, according to official an
nouncement from Berlin, was captured
yesterday' by Teutonic troops.
GERMAN FOREIGN MINISTER
VON JAG0W HAS RESIGNED
Berlin. Germany. Nov. 23. Gottlieb
Ton Jagow has resigned his po& as
minister of foreign affairs because of
111 health, and will be succeeded by
the present under eecretary. Dr. Alfred
Zimmerman, it is semi officially an
nounced. Dr. Zimmerman is the first
commoner to hold the post.
For the vacant undersecretaryship.
baron Wilhelm von Stumm, director of
the political department of the for
eign office and baron von Dem
Bussche-Haddenhausen, former min
ibttfr to Bucharest, are apparently the
strongest candidates.
County superintendent of schools
Miss Myra Winkler Wednesday was
authorized by the county board of edu
fatlnn mAotinir In her office nt the
J running western Wallachla. following case, scheduled to come up In the tj,,,. tt approve warrants for
up tneir oeieai; ot ine Rumanians in .u c ....-. cn , -,ls tfe payment of -unds lrom the ,nc0m8
tne Jiul vaiiey region aim me capture ij, v3., u iiiiuum
i of Craiova. . morrow.
' The fate of the Rumanian army that . The conference, it
I was onerating in the Orsova region vet thoritatively. was as
i remains in doubt.
was stated au
to whether the
! record of the case of Missouri. Okla
I homa and Gulf railroad, appealed to
j of the county permanent school fund
j to the city and to the county common
school fund. Of a total of 17776.98,
15758.20 will be turned over to the city
schools.
..... ... . . . , I homa and Gulf railroad, appealed to :""" i
Indications of the abandonment by j the United states supreme court Wed- I Of thel balance, distribution to the I
I the Rumanians of a large section of , nesday. could be made to cover the
western Wallachla may be found in to- Problems of all railroads or whether
. . .' one or two additional test cases should
days Bulgarian war office announce- ; be brought
, ment. It reports the destruction by Judge Pollock aereed to the nost
Rumanian forces of the bridge over the ponement.
Danube near Corabia. 5 .miles southeast I
of Cralova.
i Allien Mopped Near Monantlr.
So far It appears that the entente
1 forces which captured Monastir have
not been able to press their advance
beyond the new line taken up by the
Bulgarians and Germans a short dis
tance north of the city.
Only artillery and aviation opera
tions along the Somme in northern
France and elsewhere on the Franco
Belgian front are reported.
I
.PRUSSIAN DIET OPPOSES
CREATING POLISH KINGDOM
Berlin, Germany, Nov. 23. The Over
reas News agency states that opposi
tion has developed in the Prussian diet
to the creation of the Polish kingdom
by the German and Austro-Hungarian
empires.
The Conservative and National
Liberals, who are in the majority, are
leading tne opposition to the Polish
kingdom. The news agency states the
course or the empire will not be a
fected by the Prussian diet's attitude.
1 NAVY WILL PLACE OIL
FUEL SUPPLY UNDERGROUND
Washington. D. C, Nov. 23. The
navy is preparing to place its fuel oil
supply at various navy yards in under-
1 ground storage reservoirs to protect it
from attack by hostile aircraft.
An estimate of $1,000,000 for addi
tional storage space of this nature at
j the Guantanamo, Pearl Harbor, Puget
i Sound, San Diego. Mare Island and Nar
ragansett bay stations was explained
today to the house naval committee by
rear admiral Harris, chief of the bureau
of yards and docks.
It's a Present To Uncle,"
Says Due of Connaughl
As German Shell Strikes , VALUATION OF ONE TEXAS
ROAD GIVEN AT $8,865,636
Ottawa, OnL. Nov. 23. According to
news which has reached Canada, the
former governor general, the duke of
Connaught, visited the Canadian sol
diers in France soon after leaving
Canada.
At the front trenche3 in France, he
was entertained at luncheon In a dug
out by a Canadian general. During the
meal, the German guns opened a vio
lent bombardment on the fort and
Shells fell hpnvilv nhnnt thp rliio-nut
The duke of Connaught is said to have I l
remarked with a smile:
"This looks like a present to uncle."
Emperor William's mother was a
sister of the duke.
I Washington. D. C, Nov. 23. The phy
sical valuation of the New Orleans.
Texas and Mexico railway, announced
'today by the interstate commerce com
mission, places the cost of reproduction
at IS.865,636. It is capitalized at 140.
9SS.031. The report shows the original cost of
the line equipped was $12,194,231. The
record cost of road equipment was
found unduly large.
county districts will be made as fol- (
lows: To the Vinton school, $141.34: '
Concordia, $539.92: Smelter. $303.24:
T. S. J. Y.. $319.20: Socorro, $133.52; '
Clint. $82.52; San Elizario. $130.41:
Fort Hancock. $42.43: Sierra Blanca.
$75.52: Allamore, $15.96: Island. $66.18. j
and Fabens. $16S 54.
The state apportionment of the
school fund, amounting to $7 per capita,
or $36,302. will be apportioned through- '
out the county according to the j
scholastio population, according to a J
decision made by the board.
The board authorized Miss Winkler .
to prepare an abstract for the classi- '
hcation of the Sierra Blanca school,
following the method prescribed by the
state superintendent of schools. This-"
action is made necessary by the ex
pected graduation of eight pupils of the
10th grade or this school in June. That
their work may be properly accredited,
it is necessary that the school le
classified. It may be put in the high
school class.
.Annual Flock 0 Turkeys
For President's Dinner
B .- T" D L " 'i 7 1 for the week ending. Wednesday showed
eginS I O teaCh L.apltaL ' deaths and 29 births. Of the deaths
, 19 wer Amfriran nnH "7 toavo (.rl.
a chart of its budget which the school
roara laid down.
Hint at Term Cut. I
"If you can't tell us where to cut ex
penses, you can't complain about our
levy." E. M. Whitaker of the school
board answered.
"The only way to avert a 4"9 cent levy
is to cut the school term to seven
months or to cut the number or
schools." said superintendent Tighe.
"The state now compels us to educate
all children between 8 and 14 years of
age a requirement which H far ahead
of our present operating capacitv. Be
side the 10.000 pupils now in the city
schools and the 2600 in parochial and
private schools, there are 2000 chil
dren of school age on the streets in El
Paso.
"And if it becomes known that El
Paso has had to cut its school term
from nine to seven months, it will be
a very poor advertisement for the city."
"It won't be so poor an adertisement '
as the fact that El Iaso has no credit." I
the mayor countered. And there the
council and the school board dead
locked, i
Pump Station Illds.
Bids submitted to the city council for
the addition to the Mesa pumping sta
tion, were. Baumgarten & Wyler.
$460: El Paso Foundry and Machine
company. $4750. W. S. Valentine. 16363.
The bid of the El Paso Bitulithic
comiony of $1.46 a square yard for
paving Leon street from improvement
district No. 1 to Second street, was
accepted.
City engineer J. N. Gladding submit- .
ted two paving estimates: I
Paving North Ochoa from Rio Grande :
to Cliff streets. $16,843.29; assessment
$1.52 per lineal foot between Rio
Grande and Nevada streets, and $3.62
between Nevada and Cliff streets. .
curbing , $501.8S. of an assessment of
30 cents a foot.
Paving South Campbell street from .
improvement district No. 1 'to Fourth
street. $16,525.42. assessment, $5.13 per
foot: curbing. $600. or an assessment of
30 cents a foot. .
Health Itrnort Ifranl.
The report of the health department '
i BEDDING IN PASSENGER CARS
Austin. Tex Nov. 23. Acting upon
the application of the state board of
health, the railroad commission today
gave notice that it will take up and
consider on Tuesday, December 12, the
advisability of issuing an order directed
to all railroads in the state, governing
the carriage of bedding as baggage by
passengers.
It is proposed by the commission to
amend its baggage rules by adding ,
thereto a requirement that all bedding.
desired to be carried by passengers on '
i an ! trams, snail De enclosed in
forces which are defending the capital
of the state and has approximately 5000
men with artillery and strong fortifi
cations surrounding the town to the
west and south, the Carranza, officers
in Juarez declare.
Juarez Riuhrs Ammunition South.
An attack upon the state capital b
Villa bandits has been expected sine
Wednesday, as Villa was reported t..
have reached Horcasitas. about 30 miles
south of Chihuahua city, with his main
column. Ammunition? from the Juarex
arsenal was rushed to Chihuahua cm
Wednesday on a special train to be is
sued to Gen. Trevino's troops. CarranzK
officials here and in Juarez are au
thority for the statement that Gen. Tre
vino intends to defend the city against
the bandit attacks as long as his am
munition lasts;
Villa Men Ml Concentrated.
Passengers arriving from Chihuahua
City late Wednesday night reported the
irunKS or other similar containers and Carranza outposts which had been uta
cnecKeu ana shall not be permitted to i tioned at Sauz and Laguna. north of
be carried with the passenger in pass
enger coaches.
the capital, had been withdrawn to the
city. This was taken by the passengers
to indicate that Gen. Trevino ex
pected an attack soon No bandits were
seen along the line between Chihuahua,
city and Juarez and this was also taken
Deputy sheriff W. J. Word t.ft Tr J the Juarez military officials as an
nesday night for New Orleans to get ! incation that Villa had called in all
GONE TO NEW ORLEANS FOR
MAN WANTED IN EL PASO
TW T . . ... -.
i. .Duaiaiiienie. oi tA iaso. arrested
by New Orleans officers on his alight
ing from a Southern Pacific train a few
days ago Bustamente is wanted here
in connection with a swlndlipg case, in
which J. TV. Stockard. of the Interna
tional Auto Service company, and
Claude A. Stewart. 1311 East Nevada
street, complain thev gave 34000 for
some cattle which were not delivered.
P0IMNER COOK CRONES
BELIEVED UNDER ARREST
Chicago, 111.. Nov. 23 Jean Crones,
,tZlmer cook at the University club
of Chicago, wanted in connection with
the poisoning of 200 guests at a ban
quet tendered archbishop Mundelein of
this city, has been arrested at Spauld
ing. Neb., according to a telegram re
ceived by the local police today.
or his scouting bands of bandits to
participate in the general attack upon
the Carranza garrison.
The passengers on the, train arriving:
Wednesday night, who were Mexicans
reported preparations in Chihuahua.
city for a general exodus of civilians
to the border Trunks were packed
and. in many instances, taken to the
railway station, they said.
Rub Freight Car Sooth.
Calls for freight cars by the official
of the Mexjcan Central railroad, upon
mining companies and others having
cars on the American side of the border,
continued Thursday. One local firm
Ahich had 30 cars on this side of the
line was instructed to transfer the
cargoes at once and rush the empty
ars to Juarez for movement to Chihua
hua city. These urgent requests again
(Continued on Page-;. Column 4.)
h
JIOTOR B.DIT JsLM.N.
St. Louis. Mo. Nov. 23. n nutmnn.
bile bandit who was slain here Wed
nesday night was stated by his com
panions today to have been John Jo-
FIM AIItl"!.lE Bins
ARE WIDELY IlUlIIKiENT
Washington. D. C. Nov. 23. Presi
dent Wilson plans to spend Thanks
giving day at the white house with
members of his; family. The annual
14S
i flrwtr nf titrL'Av "mlcni omuttni.-
Washington, D. C, Nov. 23.-Bids for I ,. ., , ' " rJ "'. . .1
hydroalrplanes. opened today at . - ' ... ' .... u ' lu
the war department, disclosed such all", ."'" ""', " '" '"e
variety of prices and conditions that ' wh,teJ1 h"se " and tne othere.
iuiiiK iu uusiom, prouaoiy will be
only careful study can determine
which the government will accept.
Twelve companies submitted pro
posals ranging in price from $12,000
sent to hospitals or for distribution
amnog the poor. On the crate of ono
turkev which cam. frnm nL'hm.. .
seph Davis, of Omaha. The companion, i to $29,497 per machine. Some of the railroad men had written messages !
wno was wounded, gave his name as i bidders projiosed to build as few as -.uch as "How about the high cost of i Petitions referred
jonn Altred Lewis, of Sacramento. I four machines othpr -ff.rrt tn hnild I livlnir?" ami "rmamK.. u .i. I .... h..;iritn ....
Calif.
the 148.
day '
19 were American, and 27 were Mexl-
! cans: of the births. 11 were Amer- j
' lean. 17 Mexican and one negro Con- f
tagious diseases reported were. Scarlet '
fever. 10: smallpox. 13. diphtheria, j
four, whooping cough, four. 1
Sanitar commissioner Thomas j
German reported during the week end-
mg Tuesday. 698.000 pounds of ear-
l.age had been hauled to the disposal
plant.
Permits issued were: To G. P. Put
nam, to Instal a spur track; to the
Ministers Alliance, to use Cleveland
Square Thanksgiving day; to J. A.
Lowry, to erect a barber pole at 216
Texas street
Petition Referred.
were- To nolice.
committee. Langston
Bacon, for permit to erect an electric I
Pleased With Herald Advertising
Editor El Paso Herald: El Paso.. Tas. NW 23.
I was always aware of the fact that The EI Paso Herald had a large
circulation, but the results of our recent publicity through your columns
have been astounding. As you doubtless know, we have been advertising
lo send free to all who requested same, a map of the Arizona copper
camps. ,We confidently behove that we could compile from the coupons
sent in a fairly creditable directory of all the towns in Arizona and New
Mexico. Needless to ay we are pleased with the results of our invest
ment in 'Herald advertising space.
Yours faithfully.
Volney B. Leonard & Co..
Investment Bankers.
The Entente Allies Are Praying That Anarchy May Succeed Francis Joseph
