W. R. C. Initiates Five
and Inspection Follows
The members of the W. R. C. held a
very interesting meeting Tuesday eve
ning in W. R. C. hall. There was a
.good attendance, about 30 being pres
ent and three members of the G. A. R.
After the regular business pession
there was initiation, five new members
being initiated. Miss Retta Coach, of
Lisbon, was here to inspect the corps,
arriving in the city Tuesday evening
from the west. Mrs. Henry Beal gave
a splendid report of the national con
vention at Kansas City held in Septem
ber, and Mr. Beal also gave a talk be
fore the W. R. C. on the Soldiers'
Home. After the business part of the
meeting was over, a social time was
enjoyed and lunch was served. Miss
Coach, who came for the inspection,
left Wednesday morning for Tower
pity.
Cost a Pretty Penny
to Take Shot at Deer
Jamestown, Nov. 21.—Mike Neys, of
Eldridge, was arraigned in Police Mag
istrate Bigelow's court this afternoon
charged with hunting and pursuing
•deer with the intention of killing.
Neys refused to plead not guilty and
was fined $100 and costs, the costs be
ing $5.50. He paid the fine.
Neys was arrested by State Deputy
Game Warden Malcolm Sinclair. Ac
cording to the evidence brought out at
the hearing the deer was first seen
about nine or ten miles north of Eld
ridge, on the Pipestem river. A farm
er named Wagner, in company with
Neys, secured a shot gun and rifle and
started after the deer. According to
the story told by Neys, he shot at the
deer with the rifle and Wagner shot
with the shotgun. Although the men
were within 60 fards of the animal
they did not hit it.
It is supposed that the deer came
from the timber along the Missouri
river 100 miles from where the shoot
ing took place. Wagner did not ap
pear as he promised to and it is very
likely that a warrant will be sworn
out for him some time this afternoon.
Deer are protected by law in the
state of North Dakota until the year
1920 and all hunting or shooting at
them is prohibited.
Supreme Court to Settle
Parochial School Status
Mandan, Nov. 21.—If, as is expected,
the supreme court of the state of
North Dakota this afternoon grants a
prayer for a writ of certiorari, prece
dent will be established for the United
States in a matter that has long been
before the courts of every state—Is a
parochial school a public school?
Attorney J. A. Heder, of the law
firm of Sullivan & Sullivan, of Man
dan, this afternoon made preliminary
application for an original writ of cer
tiorari, asking the supreme court to
issue an order commanding Supt. E.
R. Thomas, of the Mercer county
schools, and State Superintendent of
Public Instruction E. J. Taylor to cer
tify fully to the court all records of
action on which they based a decision
preventing the maintenance of a
school in Mercer county established by
the German Lutheran church.
In the complaint,submitted to the
court Jacob Haffner deposess and
saith: that two years ago he and oth
er German Lutherans of Mercer coun
ty organized a parochial school which
was conducted in the church building,
and that the school was in operation
for a considerable length of time with
out interference from County Super
intendent Thomas that during the
summer of 1916, he, (Haffner) and
others were informed that the school
could not be continued unless approv
ed by the county superintendent, and
that children would not be excused
from attending the public schools de
spite their being sent to the parochial
school, and further that parents not
sending children to the public schools
would be arrested and prosecuted.
Appeal was made to Supt. Thomas
but he refused to approve the school
appeal was then made to the state
superintendent, who sustained the de
cision of the county official. The pe
titioners prior to the establishment of
the school, and last summer presented
a petition setting forth that they want
ed their children to be taught the
German language and the Lutheran
catechism they declared that the
school would be taught by Rev. Paul
F. Buck, a graduate of Concordia col
lege, St. Paul, and of the German
Lutheran Seminary at St. Louis, Mo.
that he had taught school for two
years in North Dakota and was quali
fied to teach. The petition further
stated that the curriculum would be
prescribed for the public schools, with
the exception that the catechism and
German languages would be added.
The brief further sets forth the
claims of the petitioner that Supt.
Thomas refused to acknowledge the
claims and the proof that the state
course was being taught, and objected
to the school for the Teason that the
German language and Lutheran reli
gion were to be studied.
Haflner and various others were ar
rested, taken before a justice of the
peace and fined. The cases have been
appealed.
It is claimed that Superintendent
Thomas and State Superintendent Tay
lar acted without jurisdiction in the
case that the petitioners represented
in this test case by Haffner, desire
their children educated in a church
school, and if this Mercer county
Cupid a Busy Fellow
Around St. Anthony
Mandan, Nov. 21.—Little Dan Cupid
has been having a merry time down at
St. Anthony in the past few weeks.
Last week six couples took the nuptial
vows, and there are more this week.
Yesterday Miss Pauline Haider, daugh
ter of Frank Haider, and Charles Gu
lasch were married. Today Peter
Maier and Minnie Fleck, and Matt
Fleck and Ludella Joachim were to
have been the principals in a double
wedding, and tomorrow Mary Mann,
daughter of John Mann, and John
Pitzer, son of Mike Pitzer, will be
wedded. Another wedding accurred
at St. Anthony this morning at 10
o'clock when John Eckroth, son of
the late Peter Eckroth, and Miss
Elizabeth Welch, daughter of George
Wetch, were united in marriage by
Rev. Fr. Fox. *Big wedding feasts,
dances and celebrations have been
held at all of the homes of the vari
ous brides.
NORTH DAKOTA WILL
REMEMBER RUTH LAW
Miss Ruth Law, the daring young
girl aviator who shattered all Amer
ican long distance records when she
flew from Chicago to the Hornell, N.
Y., station, a distance of 622 miles in
eight hours and 59 minutes, will be
remembered in North Dakota as hav
ing thrilled thousands at the state fair
held in Fargo in July.
In company with her husband, Ruth
Law made two flights daily, lighting
the skies at night with brilliant mag
nesium flares. On Friday, the day
previous to the auto races, Miss Law
raced against "Wild Bill" Endicott on
the half-mile circular track, easily
defeating the speed merchant, who
a year ago fought alongside of John
nie Raimey for the state record. It
was the most interesting race ever
seen in the state.
CUPID IS GETTING BUSY
The following marriage licenses
were issued recently:
Nov. 18—Charles A. McLean, of
Tower City, and Miss Anna L. Vogel,
of Ashtabula.
Nov. 21—P. J. Hyland and Miss
Gladys Fridd, both of Valley City.
Nov. 21—David Lewis Junod and
Miss Frances Moran, both of Valley
City.
Nov. 22—Robert M. Moffatt and
Miss Grace R. Vishy, both of Wimble
don.
JIM JAM JEMS WILL LOSE
SPICE PUBLISHER MARRIES
Bismarck, Nov. 21.—Sam Clark,
publisher of Jim Jam Jems, and widely
known traveler and writer, and Clara
Johnson, of Grand Forks, were mar
ried today in Chicago. The romance
is a surprise to even Clark's closest
friends, to whom he announced his in
tentions only a few days ago.
Clark and his bride will spend a
month in New York, and in January
will depart with Governor aiTd Mrs.
Hanna and other friends for a second
visit to Germany. Upon their return
from Europe, the Clarks will make
their home in Bismarck.
STOCKBREEDERS ORGANIZE!
Bismarck, Nov. 22.—Commissioner
of Agriculture and Labor Flint receiv
ed this iporning advice of the organiza
tion of the Sheridan County Breeders'
association at MoCIusky. J. E. Davis,
of Goodrich, a former member of the
state senate, is president, and the next
meeting will be held at McClusky on
Dec. 7.
Paul H. Jeardeau, who won a prize
in the recent composition contest on
Ten Reasons for a Pure-bred Sire, is
one of the active members.
ENTERTAINED IN HONOR
OF A BISMARCK VISITOR
Monday evening Mrs. George Stiles
and Mrs. Frank Ployhar were hostess
es at a party given in honor of Mrs.
Chas. Baker, of Bismarck, who is vis
iting at the home of Mrs. John D. Gray.
The evening was devoted to playing
500 and the prizes were awarded to
Mrs. Harold Dwight and Mrs. J. E.
Jones. A prize was also given the
honor guest. The serving of refresh
ments concluded an enjoyable evening.
Mrs. Baker, who is a former resident
of Valley City, has been entertained at
a number of parties while here.
school is not approved, they would
have to send the children without the
state at big expense the claim is fur
ther made that the arbitrary orders of
the two school officers are in violation
of the federal constitution.
The papers submitted in the case
are extremely lengthy and go into
every detail and technical point of the
laWy
The whole thidg resolves itself into
a test as to whether the county or
state has a right to interfere with a
parochial school provided it follows
the prescribed state course, of study.
There is not a single case on rec
ord in any state of the union by which
precedent may have been established.
Since this action was started the at
torneys for the petitioners have re
ceived over 200 letters from heads of
parochial schools in Minnesota, South
Dakota, Missouri, Kansas, Illinois,
Wisconsin and states in the east, and
when hearing is set on the final argu
ment at least a dozen attorneys will
be aligned with the original counsel.
The National Synod of the German
Lutheran church has taken up the mat
ter and is backing Haffner and his fel
low churchmen in Mercer gtfunty, and
Catholics have also largely interested
themselves in the affair.
A further question is raised as to
whether thd courts, supreme or dis
trict, have the power to review a
school board's decree as to the legal
standing, of a school.
Chance Out of Jail
Promises Damage Suit
Jamestown, Nov. 21.—M. H. Chance,
the well-known young man from Kid
der county, who was arrested in Jam
estown Oct. 18 on a charge of larceny,
the specific charge being that he stole
an automobile owned by Fred Diddle,
father of Mary Riddle, with whom the
defendant eloped, has been released
from custody andv charges preferred
against him have been discharged.
THE WEEKLY TIMES-RECORD
Late developments in the case, ac
cording to Attorney John A. Jorgen
son of this city, who has defended
Chance, are that action for heavy
damages for malicious prosecution
will be filed in federal court in the
near future against Fred Riddle, who
caused the defendant's arrest, as a re
sult of which he has been held in the
county jail at Steele for approximate
ly 32 days.
As the case now stands, Chance is
free, and ready as he and the girl
both testified, to elope again at the
first opportunity, while a bench war
rant is out in Minneapolis for Sher
iff Price, of Kidder county, that will
probably be served as soon as he ap
pears in the state of Minnesota, and
the father of the girl may be mulcted
for heavy damages at the coming term
of the federal court at Bismarck.
Fargo Forum Is Past
Quarter Century Mark
Fargo Forum: "Charley Brewer,
secretary of the state board of regents,
is in the city and dropped in to see me
this morning, and the first question
he asked was if I remembered 25
years ago today," remarked H. C.
Plumley Friday afternoon to the For-1
um. The day referred to was the one
on which the Forum was first launch-:
ed, and brought up many reminscences
from Messrs. Brewer and Plumley.
"It was in the fall of 1891 that
President Hill of the Great Northern
finally got Major Edwards out of the
control of the Argus, and he planned
to start an afternoon daily," said Mr.
Plumley, "Major Shaw was placed in
charge of the morning paper, and
asked me to continue with it, but
Major Edwards made me a proposi
tion to go in with him as an equal
partner, and we planned the afternoon
daily, but our material did not get
here in season, and the new paper
was printed at the office of the Moor
head News, as no facilities could be
obtained in Fargo. It was of four
pages, set from type which had nearly
all been discarded, and in reality
should have been in the 'hell box,' and
five different faces had to be used,
from nonpareil to small pica. The
ads could hardly be called artistic,
but it took from the first.
"It was also printed on an old Sat
bed press, which sometimes would
run —and sometimes wouldn't. As
soon as 100 or 150 papers were off the
they were brought to a wooden build
ing located where the Fargo Imple
ment Co.'s building is now, folded by
hand and the names of the subscribers
written on them, and somethimes be
cause of the bucking of the press and
other accidents, it would be 10 or 11
o'clock at night before the mailing
was completed.
"Major's old driving horse a half
brother of I. C., was the beast of
burden to transport the printed sheets
to this side and once in awhile he
would run away in spite of all
Thompson's efforts in attempting to
drive him.
"The Forum was started with a
T»aid
up list of 1,000 subscribers sent
in by Major's friends, as for instance
Hon. S. G. More, of Buffalo, sent in
40 names with his personal check
for $200 to cover the same, Hon. H. F.
Miller was another man who had
much to do with helping put the pa
per on its feet, and with him was as
sociated C. C. Schuyler, who is still
here in business.
"When the material arrived, it in:
eluded a Scott press, the best then in
the state,, and this .was set up and
operated then by "Billy" Addison, who
VOL. XXXVIII—NO. 34. (Official County Paper) VALLEY CITY, NORTH DAKOTA, THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 1916. (This Issue Twelve Pages) ESTABLISHED 1879
Proclamation by President
Washington, Nov. 18.—President Willson, by proclamation yester
day, formally designated Thursday, Nov. 30, as Thanksgiving day.
Here follows the president's proclamation:
"It long has been the custom of our people to turn, in the fruitful
autumn of the year, in praise and thanksgiving to Almighty God for
His many blessings and mercies to us and the nation.
"The year that has elapsed since we last observed our day of thanks
giving has been rich in blessings to us as a people, but the whole face
of the world has been darkened by war. In the midst of our peace
and happiness, our thoughts dwell with painful disquiet upon the
struggles and sufferings of the nations at war, of the peoples upon
whom war has brought disaster without choice or possibility of es
cape on their part. We cannot think of our own happiness without
thinking of their pitiful distress.
APPOINTS DAY
"Now, therefore, I, Woodrow Wilson, president of the United
States of America, do appoint Thursday, the 30th of November, as a
day of national thanksgiving and prayer, and urge and advise« the
people to resort to their several places of worship on that day to ren
der thanks to Almighty God for the blessings of peace and unbroken
prosperity which He has bestowed upon our beloved country in such
instinted measures.
"And 1 also urge and suggest our duty in this, our day of peace and
abundante, to think in deep sympathy of the stricken peoples of the
world, upon whom the curse and terror of war has fallen so pitilessly,
and to contribute out of our abundant means to the relief of then
sufferings.
"Our people could in no better way show their real attitude toward
the present struggle of the nations than by contributing out of
their abundance to the relief of the suffering which war has brought.
"In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the
seal of the United States to be affixed.
"Done at the City of Washington this 16th day of November, in the
year of our Lord 1916, and of the independence of the United States
the 141st. WOODROW WILSON.
"By the President: ROBERT LANSING, Secretary of State."
Barnes County Pastor
Principal in Romance
The romance which brought Miss
Gertrude Holcrow, of London, Eng.,
4,500 miles overseas and through sub
marine dangers to Fargo to become
the bride of Aleck Cutler, of Halliday,
N. D., reached its happy culmination
Monday afternoon in Moorhead.
They were married by Rev. E. H.
Stickney, of Fargo. Rev. E. C. Ford,
of Fargo, and Mrs. C. F. Brannon were
witnesses.
The couple left at once for Halliday,
to make their home.
Mr. Cutler was a former pastor at
Fingal, where he resided until about a
month ago. He is well known in Val
ley City.
Thirty-third Anniversary of
Wedding Day Is Celebrated
A delightful neighborly social affair
took place Tuesday evening at the
beautiful home of Mr. and Mrs. A. L.
Tenny, the occasion being the thirty
third wedding anniversary of the host
and hostess. An elaborate luncheon
was served at 6:30, covers being laid
for 12. The color scheme was yellow
and white, the entire menu carrying
out this idea, while the center of the
table was adorned with a cluster of
magnificent yellow chrysanthemums.
Miss Katherine Tenny made a charm
ing little waitress, attending the vari
ous duties devolving upon her with effi
ciency.
The guests, consisting of Mr. and
Mrs. Caley, Mr. and Mrs. Tuttle, Mr.
anu Mrs. Henry Nelson, Mr. and Mrs.
Wm. Greenwood and Mr. and Mrs.
Harding, spent a delightful evening in
reminiscences and general conversa
tion, it being learned that only one of
the entire group had not formerly liv
ed in Minnesota. Later George Tenny
favored the assembly with a skillful
performance of the Lohengrin wedding
march, at the piano, and the guests
departed at a late hour with many
good wishes for the worthy couple
whose hospitality they had enjoyed.
AUTOS BUMPED TUESDAY
Chas. Maier, while autoing a mile
south of Oriska Tuesday, collided with
an auto driven by John Wegner, who
owns the auto garage at Oriska. Mr.
Maier's auto was damaged and a sat
isfactory settlement was made, as it
was reported Mr. Wegner was driving
on the wrong side of the road. Mi.
Maier was badly bruised.
is now Dr. Addison, and the worship
ful master-elect of Shiloh lodge. The
type was bought of Mr. Webster, then
representing Marder, Luce & Co., but
now of the American Type Foundry,
and not a dollair was paid down on the
deal—the only guarantee Mr. Webster
asked Major Edwards was
"whether he intended to pay for it or
not." It was nevertheless paid for in
the first 18 months.
"Charley Brewer started with the
paper the first day it was issued, and
remained with the sheet until three
years ago. His first work after things
were in shape in the office was can
vassing the various townships in Cass
county, writing up the farmers and
getting their subscriptions to the
weekly. The paper thus got in per
sonal touch with all sections of the
county, and later this work was ex
tended to other portions of the state.
He rose to the position of managing
editor, but the personal acquaintance
made in those early days has always
been an asset to him and to the
Forum.
"There is a vast difference today
between the issues of the Forum and
the ones put out in the old days. The
state has grown, but the paper has al
ways tried to keep a little ahead of
the growth of the city and state.
Though no longer having any finan
cial interest in the Forum, I still feel
much interest in the paper, and one
of the sources of pleasure is to rea
lize how much this paper has done in
the past 25 years in building up both
the city and the grand common
wealth of North Dakota."
Treating of Potatoes
Found Very Profitable
That it pays to select and treat po
tatoes has been clearly demonstrated
by several potato plots in the Dazey
district this past year.
The plot grown by J. N. Osborne is
more striking as result^ than any of
the other plots. The plot selected for
this demonstration contained 155.1
square rods. The field was spring
plowed six inches deep and harrowed
three times. Early Ohio potatoes
were planted June 1 at the rate of 12
bushels per acre. They were check
rowed three and one-6alf feet apart
and cultivated three times. Only one
application of Paris Green was used.
This 155.1 square rods was all the
same kind of soil with an equal stand
of sweet clover. In fertility and phy
sical condition there should be no dif
ference.
Of this 155.1 square rods 72.6 square
rods or a little less than one-half acre
was planted with bin selected pota
toes and treated with corosive sub
limate, which was prepared by dis
solving four ounces of corrosive sub
limate in a little warm water and mix
ing this with 30 gallons of water. The
potatoes were immersed in this solu
tion in wire baskets and allowed to
remain for one and ohe-half hours.
This treating was done for the pur
pose of killing scab and rhizoctonia,
which is the small-sized pin-head scab
that looks like dirt on the potato.
Rhizoctonia very materially decreases
the yield of potatoes. Decrease as a
result of this disease would probably
amount to 20 per cent.
The stem ends of the selected seed
were cut off for the mirpose of elimin
ating the wilt that .works in the stems,
settling in the stems of the potato
and transmitting the disease to the
succeeding crop and infesting the
soil. The 72.6 square rods in the
treated plot yielded 89 sacks of pota
toes. Several o^ the sacks were
weighed to get an average weight per
sack and the yield was 105.4 bushels.
This would make the yield per acre
232.3 bushels.
On the untreated and unselected
82.5 square rods grown in the same
field there were 6S.8 bushels. These
potatoes were all weighed. At this
rate the untreated and unselected plot
would yield 168.8 bushels. There
would be a difference of 63.7 bushels
per acre in favor of the treated and
selected plot and at 85 cents per bush
el the treated acre would bring $54
more than the untreated.
More detailed results as regards hill
selection were obtained by S. B. Keg
rice on his five acre plot. The com
plete results of this plot together with
several others in the community will
be published at some future time.
T. X. CALNAN.
FARMER'S ORGANIZED
Jamestown, Nov. 22.—A farmers'
club was started at the Strand school
house, north of Cleveland. It was
named the Live Wire Farmers' club.
C. D. Hastings was elected president:
Mrs. N. Strand, secretary and Harry
Zimmerman, treasurer. Committees
were appointed to prepare a constitu
tion and by-laws and report at the
next meeting, which wil be held Fri
day, Dec. 1.
The society is largely intended for
social purposes as well as otner ob
jects. County Agent Borchert was
present and aided in the organization.
He also gave an explantion of the new
farm loan act concerning which there
is considerable interest with the mem
bers of the club.
BIG AMOUNT RECEIVED
IN DELINQUENT TAXES
Bismarck, Nov. 22.—All records ior
October collections of delinquent taxes
were broken at the state auditor's of
fice for the past month, when $75,526,
04 came in. During September, a sub
stantial amount was collected, and in
December, when land sales will be
made for delinquent taxes, it is ex
pected the totals will be greatly swol
len.
Among October's heavier payments
were $5,572.13 from Towner c,unty
$5,104.90 from Stutsman, and $3,760.12
from Cass. No one knows just where
the money is coming from, but North
Dakota farmers evidence no lack of it
this fall.
LEGISLATIVE COST
FIXED AT $112,000
Bismarck, Nov. 22.—The Fifteenth
legislative assembly is expected to
cost North Dakota $112,000. This is
the amount fixed by the budget com
mittee today.
The items named are $57,000 for
mileage and per diem of members
$20,000 for the per diem of officers
and employes $30,000 for printing,
and $5,000 for miscellaneous expenses.
Unless the lejgislature succeeds in
keeping within the amounts named,
emergency appropriations will be nec
essary.
MILADY DONS THE TROUSERS
The newest thing for milady is the
trouser costume which she says is the
most convenient and comfortable gar
ment yet. In the garden, at the lake,
hiking, fishing, house cleaning or any
time when skirts are found a nuisance
she quietly dons the overall costume
and says its "just lovely."
The most attractive feature is its
numerous pockets. There are two
side pockets and two back pockets
thus allowing plenty of receptacles for
powder puff, hair pins and many other
little vanities and the back pockets
are large enough to carry the pistol if
my a la man so desires.
The new garment has won great
popularity among women in the east
and west because of its many advan
tages over the skirt, and they are
very fittingly called My Lady's Over
alls.
Popular Young
People Wedded
The marriage of Miss Frances
Moran to David Junod took place at St.
Catherine's church Wednesday morn
ing at 7 o'clock.
The bride was attended by Miss
Alice Remley, of Fargo, while Edmund
J. Kelly, of Fargo, acted as grooms
man. The bride wore her traveling
suit of blue velour and a corsage bou
quet of lilies of the valley.
A very dainty wedding breakfast
was served at the home of the bride
immediately after the services.
Chrysanthemums were used in deco
rating the breakfast table and were
also placed in the different rooms.
The bride and groom are to take an
extended trip through the East for
two weeks.
Both have many friends here who
join in extending best wishes for a
long ami happy life.
Robbers Didn't Dis
turb Police Slumbers
Fargo, Nov. 21.—Cash and merchan
dise, totaling approximately $300, were
obtained by robbers who entered three
Fargo business houses last night.
At the deLendrecie department store
the robbers obtained $100 in cash, and
$52.44 worth of merchandise.
The Christianson drug store yielded
49 cents in cash, and $126 worth of
toilet articles and sundries.
Four dollars in cash, two fountain
pens, and three pairs of pliers were
taken at the Pure Food grocery, cor
ner Eighth street and First avenue
south.
Two men are believed to have stag
ed the robberies, and the work bears
of the mark of professionals. There
are no clues.
Local police are of the opinion that
the Pure Food grocery was first en
tered. The robbers obtained entrance
by breaking a rear window, taking
what change was left in the cash
register, two self-filling fountain pens,
which had been left on a desk, and
three pairs of premium pliers, lying
near the cash register. Nothing else
was disturbed.
The deLendrecie store was next in
line. There the robbers first gained
entrance to the boiler room in the
basement, but were thwarted in their
attempt to get into he basement pro
per by a heavily barred door.
Going around to the front, and en
tering the hallway leading to the of
fices on the upper floors of the build
ing, the intruders cut the steel chain
locking the passenger elevator, prob
ably with the pliers secured at the
Pure Food grocery, and lowered it to
the basement, where they had access
to the entire store.
Cash amounting to $100, which had
been left in the several cash registers
for change this morning, was first tak
en. Then a thorough survey of the
stock resulted, many articles being
thrown on the floor.
Among the articles of merchandise
taken were four and a half dozen pairs
of men's silk socks, two silver mesh
bags, two rosaries, two Ingersoll dol
lar watches, a pair of ladies' silk hose,
and numerous other articles valued in
all at $52.44.
The valuation of the missing ar
ticles was supplied to the local police
by H. J. Rausch, manager, following
a preliminary inventory.
That the intruders were in no hurry
while at the deLendrecie store is evi
denced by the fact that one of the
men, choosing a suit of underwear,
went into the dressing rooms and tried
it on.
Just how the robbers gained en
trance to the Christianson drug store.
10 Broadway, could not be determined
this morning. Windows were found
intact, and the doors locked.
The robbers secured 20c and 25c
respectively, from the two cash regis
ters in the store. Other loot included
30 fountain pens, two priar pipes, one
meerschaum pipe, six pocket knives,
three toilet sets and a quantity of
toilet articles and druggist's sundries,
valued at about $126.
In all instances the robberies were
not discovered until the stores were
opened this morning, and in no in
stance was there the slightest clue as
to the identity of the robbers.
SPLENDID SHOWING
MADE BY THIS STATE
Eismrck, Nov. 22.—North Dakota
has reason to be proud of the showing
by its butter-makers at the national
convention, reports State Dairy Com
missioner E. A. Greenwood upon his re
turn from Minneapolis. The Flicker
tail state had a greater number of en
tries than practically any other state
west of the Mississippi, and its scor
ings were very high, especially when
there is considered the comparatively
short time in which North Dakota has
held any rank as a butter-producing
state.
As compared with North Dakota's
entries, it may be remarked that Cali
fornia led Pacific coast states with
ten Montana had eight Illinois six,
while Indiana, Vermont, Colorado,
Kansas, Pennsylvania, Texas, Ohio,
New York, Missouri, Massachusettes,
Virginia and Washington ranged in
number of entries in the scoring con
test from two to three.
The silver cup for the highest score
went to Carl Oscarhard of Devils
Lake, who received 94.33% per cent of
a possible hundred points. Leonard
Casper of Hannaford ranged second,
with 93.50.
There was an excellent representa
tion of dairymen and butter-makers
from all parts of the state. Dairy
Commissioner Greenwood occupied an.
important place on the program.
