The .Marble Hill Press.
.:""-iijf
Tarm8-$l.OC a "ITaar
TKIRTY-SIZTH "SmITi.
Marble Hill, Missouri, Thursday, November 23, u,io.
Vol. 36.
No. 30.
1
V
II
irmr?
& up u y ft
IS
1
a,
r.
iei mn
1 1 m& &m v be pit k&j r
U tf W W ft? R a II tt& BB
and whether or not you ot vour preference, you must buy Clothing Shoe.;. Groceries l:tc, for yourself and
family and the question is where you can get the most and best quality of meiviiandi for the least money?
If you have been a customer of this store any length of time we have no fea of how you wiil decide the
matter for we are sure that the courteous treatment, low prices and excellent quality of our goods will ap
peal to and hold yon as a regular customer, but if you have not traded enough at our store to fully realize
the kind of treatment we accord all with whom we deal we ask that you treat us fairly by con ing to our
store during this Sale and giving us an opportunity to prove to you that our claim to bo the best trading
point in Bollinger county is true. Be fair to yourself and to us by giving us a chance to quote you prices on
anything you mn need, before buying. We have more goods than any other store in the county and can
supply your wants at the lowest possible figures. 7 r us an J sec if this is not true.
Sale begins November 18, and closes the last day of the year
Ladies' and Children's Cloaks
We U.;f M i e- r ,-UvK..:ny ;( V.fillhff ) ' l( (lit (.lit V Ltl
ktmvm it 11 a-.-!H "-t'iif hrf.tfr- a ;onii. m t nt.-ij rrAMtnahiy
ptfl tv&i. b1 weather U-fofi- iniii!) day. Your wife and t filer- u
tfcmtld ; ( , 1 with v ne of (Hir gtt. tcrv i ejjbie and i .n;
h.ftaNe rt? Wfntr the Is! wrather begin- and thrte t no
te.iwxi Lv '.' ' y 4 ! we lone aimt any sure find
any prrtol i;.ff.t:! sn this fine yoo otM wish (m
See this big line of Real Bargains before you buy. They
are eyeopeners.
Men and Boys' Hats and Caps
(.thee um in thu come y kk hke the north Mar doe to tlie
full n'wa io u-i;nri with our line of this g? We cia fa
tt? head ) p kelbook nod :) l4e in Hat1 or ( We
unit h in tu !;.. tV.ni it) ud see fix br.fch'. r .ire
Pratt's and International Stock Fvods
tl veterinary rewfic will &i a h .iiurt It wi! jn v.u to
k4 ftr your ;m-k ft thev are t. a!itbl (a nKvt
Dress Goods
Dress Goods
TuU t chmp." tu thf prkv on ur ritnrr lurjlo MK-k .tf
Iri- We ran not fiiplicqtr lb ii the t:nrk"i at
lh" i-fHTS art' !fllitijj tliH I'H of iSotnK lut o nrf jltv.itt: ur
I'Uloitictii the l0f!il of ihesr twriimns aini inaSaii tit-w friftids
ty 'lnuijj i. Jf you lim't Wwve we have u.i! .nvl at j.rif
ihi ciiu't thiln-a rltrwJirrr, call nnti Irt iss tn!w vim '. are
hi .lew J earnest atltl mean to show yoa that we are
Children's Caps and Sweaters
tVr .! k t i.irv,f miU ctMnj'iete n( w can niiike nur Srttk'
oat-j . otnf.tr tiiii. im nhter fm very hnle money If y.ti ilon't
N U- sf tni, t ouie ia unii rr our hi line
Comforts and Blankets
ou ki-ow hv- tiiit'ofTifortithle me in if !! ni l-od .in.) o : ai
iiM m! ar.y ret while in this n-i.tlition. -it n t
M-re .my tv:r.;vith however wlten are almost aiwnv :rt
lontfort wf.il Bkiiikt-ss Just cinie iu .i!J prit e ihrm
Millinery
Mi iinery
hil(tn-a' Hiiis
V'tV l,.,Vi- SOl.i ;i lil.iU11!lot,i Jitock of ,i
niJ Oil t!ii- fail, hut we have a few iiiee up-i.Mh.te Hats left
unci in orijer to ciean on: tin si rmio y we ,ire oflorint! tliein
A t and B t i o w Cost
They Wuti'l i ol lonj, at the priei-. we are ui:ikin! on them, so if
you want one you should not wan.
Shoes
Shoes
We have nlwav- tried to he aMe to mii. ply our cut-tomers with
uvthinij they tiije-ht desire in 'he Shoe line from ihe ntot dtvv
to the liesi io even ilay work U.-s nml we r-w huve a larger
st.n-k than ever Wore. we feei ..ire lint we '.'an hi! your wants;
more a'if,!i !(ui!v than ever S.Ae a dth nr' hill hv keeping
your feet Wiirin :nd dry. there! y Htiioii.iii and saw money on
your stioe hill hv huyinjj from us thus twi.-e sivinjj money Ve
ui-nt eurrv ,n exceptionally L-re n:e . f j:,,- f.in .oi;s "Haii" :uid
"Hulh ye ' hi. nd- of lahber hnttw ar uniiwenrt laak't;.: ejn-eiaiU
ii'ir.H :,o" tn. 0:1 them. See t ..w low m- -tret'-!. "i j.rut
fi re '.u hu
Coal Oil, fcr ijjlkn Juriiu tin's Sate only
Gloves
Gloves
Ite )Ci krww that clove are no ktjef onMerrl luxury
They ie a ttn-rt-ity. Anyone cm kt lietter work in ny line if
thrir bati are in wt iAX1ttitn and tf tt kiu is hunt nd
rraeketi open, you mm ply toe ernMijJh in a few hoor time through
innUhiy to tu4u off our work niht, to pay ft gloves to shield
(hem wver al wrrkr Think of this from a business standpoint
od then nyne in sad let tw fit you oot with any kind you desire
Overcoats
Overcoats
We have the lirjet Stixk an. I fireatet variety of Overcoats on
harhl we liave ever bught any .vao In order to pnsh thee
lmda tut we are offering special inducement in the way of kw
Ikes to our customer. They are rare bargain st them.
Irish Potatoes $1.60 per bushel
We w ill pjiy yvm $1 pet bushel ft Jwwl. pit kevi Irish potatoes
Bring tlwm in
Clothing
Clothing
We h.ive the Idrest stock of Clothing in the ctmnty and we nre
offering the entire line at the kweM pvible jwices
$25 Ot) Suits will go during this Sale for only $20 00
20 IK) - " Hint)
18 00 " " " " 13 (HI
15 00 " " " " 12.W
13 30 ' " " " 10 00
123t " " - - 9 83
10 IK) " " " - " " " " ti80
8 Ot) 3 73
Young men's Suits will go at from $7 30. $850, $10. $1230 and
$13.
Big lot of clooe cut Suit, 32, 34. 13. hi. 17 and 18 sires w ill go
81 a bargain. Don't forget to look at them
Boys' knkkerbocker Suits in latest styles can not fail to please
you in quality and price.
Our line of men's Trousers is the biggest in the county and our
prices are the lowest. See us before you buy.
Paints
Paints
ve are selling our sti k at last year . prices, an i you know there
is quite a lot of difference in this season's prices nnd those of last
vear
Groceries
Groceries
Did you ever stop to think that there is lots of difference in
groceries Many merchants keep such goods on hand until they
are stale absolutely unfit for human beings to eat. Our sttvk is
changing every week no week passes that we fail to receive a
large consignment of fresh groceries therefore we never hesitate
to guarantee such goods to be as fresh as can W found in the
market
Trunks, Suitcases and Grips
We have a few left that we are offering at a bargain, t ome in
and see us tx-fore you buy.
14 "Pounds of Sugj: for $1,00 with cocry Sv.oc purchase
We wiil be pleased to have all our old friends call at our Store any time and would like to become acquainted
with many others. We are in position to sell you 'imkIs cheaper and pay higher prices for your produce than ever before. Then, h not bring us your
Turkeys. Chickens, Geese, Ducks, Hutter, Lard, Potatoes, Hide, in fact amthtnjr you may have to sell. We are in bu.ines to trade and we inut
move our goods out.
Let U5 know when you have any Sheep. Hogs, Cattle, or other live stock to sell. We arc in the market for it.
Yours for business
nn
E3i
M
i
