rm
VOL. XX NO. 214.
BAKKK, VERMONT, THURSDAY, XOVKMJIElt 2.J, 1910.
PRICE, OXE CENT.
THE BARRE
BAILY
IMES
RUSSIAN AID
COMES AT LAST
To Roister Up the Rumani
ans on the Transyl
vania Line
JACK LONDON DEAD.
BERLIN WAR OFFICE
TELLS OF ARRIVAL
Germans Are Said to
Over-running Wal-lachia
Be
The latest reports of the vigorous cam
paign General Von Fnlkenhayn is wag
ing against the Rumanians Indicate that
tho Teutonic ferces are over-running
western Wallaehia, following up sharply
their defeat of the Rumanians in the
Jiul valley and the capture of Craiova.
Tho fate of the Rumanian army, that
was operating in the Orsova region, re
mains in doubt.
No official statement from the Buch
arest war office hat been received since
Sunday and the Russian reports on the
lighting in the Rumanian war theatre
appear to be considerably belated.
Berlin, by wireless, Nov. 23. Russian
reinforcements have arrived on the Tnin
sylvanian front, the war office reports.
The statement says that the situation
in W'allachia is unchanged. In Craiova,
in addition to other booty, 300 railway
cars fell into German hands, it declares.
Author Spent Last Conscious Night Writ
ing a Short Story.
Santa Rosa, Cal.. Nov. 23. .lack Lon
don, the author, who died last night at
his ;lcn Kllen farm near here, spent his
last conscious evening writing. London
complained of indigestion when ho re
tired Tuesday evening, but notwithstand
ing it ho sat propped up in bed writing
a short story.
From tho time London was found yes
terday morning he did not regain con
sciousness. About midday 1m seemed
to rally but later suffered a relapse and
sank rapidly until the end came.
Resides his sister, Mas. Shepard, Lon
don is survived by a daughter, who is
a student at the University of Califor
nia, his mother, who lives in Oakland,
Cal., and his wife, Charmion lamdon.
Mrs. London was with her husband when
death came.
London would have been 41 years old
on January 12.
Mr. and Mrs. London recently returned
from a sojourn of several months in the
Hawaiian islands and have been living
on 4,heir Glen Kllen ranch, one of the
most elaborately equipped in northern
California.
NEW EMPEROR
TAKES THRONE
EX-CONfl. C. II. JOYCE,
CIVIL WAR VETERAN,
DEAD IN PITTSFIELD
Charles of Austria Declares
Inflexible Decision to
Maintain War
"UNTIL PEACE
IS ASSURED"
ROBBERS ARE ACTIVE,
GER3IANY CONSIDERS
REPLIES CONVINCING
IN FOUR INSTANCES
But There Are Six More .Inquiries from
United States Government Regard
ing the Sinking of Ships
By Submarines.
Berlin, Nov. 21, by wireless to Associat
ed Press, Nov. 23. A period of compli
cations may again be impending in Ger
man-American relations, Germany's con
duct of submarine warfare has brought
forth an abundant crop of American in
quiries, of which the American charge,
Grew, recently has filed no less than ten,
five of them to-day. Six remain to be
answered, including the case of the Ma
rina, on which a number of Americans
appear to have been killed, and of the
Arabia, the sinking of which the Amer
ican government declares appears to be
inconsistent with the promises of the
German government regarding the treat
ment of passengers on liners. ashing
ton believes that the submarine comman
der, on ascertaining that women and
children were on the decks, should have
retrained from attack.
Germany's four cases in regard to
which replies already have been made
were found to have fairly convincing an
swers, which it is believed may put quite
a ditlerent aspect on affairs. It is point
ed out there that, according to the testi
mony of her own passengers, the Arabia
was armed and used her cannon. The
sea was smooth and other vessels were
near. It is argued that the Arabia, hav
ing on board a large number of coolie
war workers, should be regarded as a
transport.
WERE NO WOUNDED
ON THE BRITANNIC
British Admiralty Announces That Only
Ship's Crew and Hospital Staff
Were Aboard.
London, Nov. 23. Press dispatches
from Athens to the effect that no wound
ed were aboard the hospital ship Britan
nic when sunk off the Greek coast were
confirmed to-day by the admiralty in a
statement, saying that only the ship's
crew and hospital staff were aboard.
The Daily News' Athens correspondent
sends the following concerning the sink
ing of the ship:
"Tho Britannic was torpedoed at eight
o'clock in the morning and sank near
shore fifty-one minutes later. She was
going to Saloniki, but had no wounded
on hoard.
"Her complement included 121 nurses
and 300 officers and men of the army
medical corps. Twenty-five of the injured
from the steamer are now in the Rus
sian hospital, while others are aboard
allied warships.
"The Islanders of Zea saw the vessel
Steal $34,900 at Chattanooga and $11,000
at Boswell, Okla.
Chattanooga, Tenn., Nov. 23. Two
men held up a Southern Express com
pany transfer wagon last night in the
Western & Atlantic railroad yards here
and took $34,900 in currency, according
to Chattanooga City detectives.
Boswell, Okla., Nov. 23. With $11,000
of the funds of the First National bank
of Boswell in their possession, three rob
bers last night were fleeing to the wilds
of the Kiamichi mountains after having
shaken qff a pursuing posse by fording
a swollen creek.
The robbery occurred late yesterday.
Three employes of the bank and two
customers were ordered into the vault,
while W. W. Moran, vice-president, and
W. W. Jeter, cashier, were compelled to
aid the robbers in putting $0,000 in cur
rency, $4,000 in gold and $1,000 in silver
into a stout sack. Moran and Jeter then
joined tho others in the vault and the
door was closed, after which the robbers
fled.
He Also Confirms Premier
Koerber in His Pres
ent Functions
SHOT FOR REVENGE.
Girl Will Live and Fred J. Denning Died
a Suicide.
Manchester, N. H.f Nov. 23. Smarting
because the girl spurned his attentions,
i red J. Denning, 42 years old, of 71 Can
ton street, last night attempted to kill
Ruby Pearl Danforth, 18 years old, of !3
Laurel street, and then turned the weap
on upon himself with fatal results.
Denning was a railroad man, and some
years ago lost a leg by being run over by
a train. He worked under the direction
of the girl's father, E. Herbert Danforth,
a railroad boss, and Denning was a fre
quent visitor At the Danforth home.
Denning has persisted in paving Miss
Danforth attention, but she claims she
always turned him down and repeatedly
refused to accompany him to places of
entertainment.
Tuesday night he called at the house
and renewed his efforts to induce her
to keep company with him, and was told
by her that she wanted nothing to do
with him.
He remained in the house all night,
sleeping in a chair in the living room,
vhere the girl saw him as she went to
her work in tho McElwain Central shoe
working plant yesterday morning.
Miss Danforth returned from work
last evening and was in her room when
her younger brother informed her that
Denning had just come in. Miss Dan
forth was still in her room, when the
door opened and Denning walked in and
closed the door.
He drew a revolver from his hip pock-
and fired at her. Before he could dis
charge the weapon a second time, the girl
sprang upon him fiercely and with such
suddenness as to throw him down, and
before ho could regain his feet she had
fled from the house and ran to a drug
store at the corner of Tine and Merri
mack streets.
She was covered wit blood, which was
flowing from a wound in her face. In
formation was telephoned to poliee head
quarters, a detail ot olucers appearing
soon afterward with the ambulance and
conveying the girl to the Sacred Heart
hospital.
An examination showed that the bul
let had struck her on the right side of
tho iaw. making a ragged wound, and
then had been reflected downward, enter-
ng the neck and striking the collarbone.
It was embedded just beneath the skin
and was easily removed. Her injuries
are not considered dangerous.
London, Nov. 23.7-Emperor Charles of
Austria has issued a proclamation to
Austro-Hungarians, declaring his inflexi
ble decision to maintain the war "until
peace is assured and the existence and
development of monarchy is obtained,"
Becoming to a lenna despatch to Reu
ter's by way of Amsterdam.
Tho despatch says the proclamation
was printed in a special edition of Wei-
ner Zeitung, together with an autograph
letter addressed to Premier Koerber, con
firming the latter in his present func
tions. Arrangements for the burial of the
late emperor have not been made, savs a
Vienna despatch to Reuter's, but the'
body will be interred in the Capuchin
mausoleum next week, probably Thurs
day. On Monday, the body will bo re
moved from Schoenbrunn castle to Hof
burg chapel, where it will lie in state
on Tuesday and Wednesday.
CONDOLENCES TO AUSTRIA.
On Death of Emperor Francis Joseph
Sent by Pres. Wilson.
Washington. I). ('., Nov. 23. President
Wilson yesterday sent the following mes
sage of condolence to Emperor Karl Franz
Joseph of Austria-Hungary, on receipt
of word of the death of Emperor Francis
loseph :
"I beg of your majesty and the impe
rial and royal family to accept the sin
cerest sympathy of Mrs. Wilson and my
self in the great loss which you have sus
tained in the, death of your illustrious
uncle, for whom I entertained sentiments
of high esteem and regard. I also extend
to your majesty the condolences of the
government and people of the United
States and convey to you my best wishes
for your personal well-being and pros
perity," The president addressed the new ruler
as "His Majesty Karl Franz Joseph, em
peror of Austria, king of Bohemia and
apostolic king of Hungary."
At tho same time Secretary Lansing
instructed Ambassador Pentield at Vien-
na to extend on behalf of the president
Was Native of England, But Spent
About 80 Years In Vermont, Hold
Ing Prominent Positions.
Pittstield, Nov. 23. Lieut-Col. Charles
H. Joyce, one of the very few living ex
congressmen from Vermont, died yester
day after an illness of alaiut seven week,
beginning with bronchitis and lumbago
from which he never rallied permanently,
though at one time ho felt much better
for a few days. For many years since
retiring from the practice, of law, ho
spent most of his tune here at the vose
house, usually going to Bethel for the
winter months. He is survived by a
son, Dr. C. P. F. Joyce, of Kingston, N.
II., who was with him at the end and
will mako arrangements for the funeral,
which will occur to-morrow,"with inter
ment in Rutland.
Mr. Joyce was a native of England,
having been born in Wherwcll on Jan.
;0, 1830. He came to the United States
with his parents in 18,'tti, and they set
tled on a farm in Waitslield, where the
boy grew up, later attending the Waits-
field and Northiield academies and New
bury seminary. He taught school sever
al terms and conducted law studies un
der F. F. Merrill of Montpelier and F.
V. Randall of Northiield, being admitted
to the bur in 1H52. He located in North
iield and was state's attorney for two
terms.
At the outbreak of the Civil war he
was appointed by Gov. Krastus Fair
banks as major of the 2nd regiment, Ver
mont infantry and in June of the fol
lowing year he was appointed by Gov.
Holbrook as lieutenant-colonel in the
same regiment. He was with his regi
ment in the first hattlo of Bull Run,
Lees Mills, Williamsburgh, Golden Farm,
Savage Station, White Oak Swamp, the
second battle of Bull Run and at Fred
ericksburg. In several of tho-e battles
he was specially mentioned by his su
perior officers for gallant conduct on the
field. In January 1803 he was compelled
to resign his commission because of a
disability contracted during the 1861
campaign.
On retiring from the army. Col Joyce
came to Rutland and resumed the prac
tice of his profession. He began hi po
litical career when he was elected town
representative from Rutland in 1800. He
was re-elected next term and was speak
er of the House. In 1874 he was elected
to Congress and was re-elected three suc
cessive times. He was in great demand
as a speaker during his younger days.
SINCERELY
OBLIGED"
DISCUSSED PUBLICITY.
Says President Wilson in Re
sponding to Hughes' Tele
gram of Congratulation
And Whether to Continue Barre Granite
Advertising Campaign.
At an enthusiastic meeting of granite
nianulactuiers, quarricrs and others m
terested in tho further development of
tno Harre granite industry tho associa
linns which fathered tho national adver
tising campaign launched last spring
practically committed them-rlves to con
tinuing the campaign in 1017. Tho meet
ing was held in Manufacturers' hall last
evening and there was a largo attend
ance. President Alex. Duncan of the
Granite Manufacturers' association pre
sided and the speakers included Sec. If.
P. Hinman, A. L. G'ale of Chicago and C.
If. Johnson of Huston, the advertising
fraternity being represented by Messrs.
Gale and Johnson and D. Janion Mac-
Nichol of Boston.
The speakers were closely nuestioned
by some of those present anil the search
light of the inquiry was turned on many
interesting phases of the adertising prop
aganda. Sec. Hinman gave a complete
resume of the returns so far as they
have been tabulated in the local office
and followed with impressions of the
advantages that have already accrued
in iKn ,l..n..t i.A M.. 1 ..i.
Washington, D. C, Nov. 23. President!,,. . ,t, ,., . .,
u,"i . i , . , wmr i, -lit;, ii in,- ...unite, im ..uiiuu i m:
ft ilson to-day sent a telegram to Charles , ,, a j ke of i(s C0.Mllh
Lb. Hutflip, aitknowkMijnnir the mosHacre ; 4 Ml!4. 4i . , -
AND TELLS LATTER
OF HIS BEST WISHES
Hughes Explained Briefly
Why He Had Not Act
ed Sooner
of congratulation received last night. The
presidents telegram said:
1 am sincerely obliged to you for your
message of congratulation. Allow me to
assure you of my good wishes for tho
years to come,"
Lake wood, N. J., Nov. 23. Charles E. j
Hughes, Republican candidate for pre-, hj wJ(
ident in ; the recenT election, last night brinv, WPre.F. M. Corrv, R q. MJ
sent to President Wilson telegram eon-j j, j M AI1- ,
gratulating him upon his re-election.
In tho telegram Mr. Hughes said:
"Because of the closeness of the vote
I have awaited the official count in Cali
fornia and now that it has been virtual
ly completed permit me to extend to you
my congratulations upon your re-election.
I desire also to express my best
wishes for a successful administration."
New York, Nov. 23. William R. Will
coi, chairman of the Republican nation
al committee, last night issued the fol
lowing statement in reference to Mr.
Hughes' telegram to President Wilson
and gave his hearers an idea of what
may bo expected in the way of results
from the propaganda next year. Mr.
Johnson spoke of file technical details
that enter into a well regulated cam
paign and was ready with a bundle of
answers whenever queries were direct-
poke
Don-
Alex.
Milne, W. B, Murray and F. Whcaton.
JEAN CRONES'
IS CAPTURED
Wanted in Chicago, Wras Ar
rested in1 Spaulding,
Neb. .
HE WAS SUSPECTED
OF POISONING
Over 200 G' -ts at Banquet
in C s go Were
J'dde 111 i
DEATH OF H. M. WHEELER.
Former Resident of Barre Had Shock in
Montpelier Tuesday Night.
Harry Munroo Wheeler passed away
at 9:35 o'clock last evening at his home
on Towne hill, Montpelier, having been
stricken with a shock Tuesday night
Chicar fov. 23. Jean Cronos, the
former k of, the University club of
Chief who is wanted in connection
wun poisoning of 200 guets at a
banuet tendered Archbishop Mundclin,
has been arrested in Spaulding, Nebras
ka, according to a telegram received by
the local poliee to-day.
200 ATE CHICKEN PIE
from which he failed to rallv, not re-
Having conferred by telephone during !gaiinR consciousness. Mr. Wheeler suf
the day and late yesterday afternoon
with the Republican state committee and
HARVARD PLAYERS CONFIDENT
But They Realize They Have Hard Task
Ahead to Beat Yale.
Cambridge, Mass., Nov, 23. The main
portion of the Harvard football squad
left to-day for New Haven, confident of
victory over . Yale Saturday, but realia-4-
ing that a hard contest is before them.
Thirty-one men formed the contingent.
After a visit to the lale bowl this aft
ernoon, the souad will eo to New London
government and people of the tinted l to remain until Saturday morning.
States condolence to the people of the
dual monarchy on the death of, "their
late venerable emperor and king, and
also to express to the minister of for
eign affairs the personal sympathy of
Mr. Lansing.
Speaking before a mass meeting of
fered a light shock two years ago and
the Republican national committeemen in si,,ce tnat timp although able to work
California, I am informed that the offi
cial canvass of the vote has been so
nearly completed that no change will re
daily, he was not in good health.
The deceased had resided on the farm
where bis death occurred tnr thn nnsf
l,,r pirnm i m-i mmiitu years and was well known not only
in the returns thus far compiled. throughout the county but the entire
"This means that the majority for the I state for his ability to transport on
Wilson electors in California ranges from . tennis heavy material, granite and ma
about 1.200 to 3,800 votes and that this fhinery. He was the first man to trans
is the final result ot the canvass for!j,rt pranite from Sodom. Some years
which we have been waiting. So far as!ago when W. W. Sticknev was governor
any recount is concerned, the national ;0f tj. state, Mr. 'Wheeler was called
committee is not advised that there are ..mm tn mm- tl rwtnr rihr mmi.
sufficient grounds to call for such an
application."
WILSON THANKS PARKER.
For Support Given by Progressive Candi
date for Vice-President.
New Orleans, La., Nov. 23. John M.
Parker, who was the Progressive nomi
nee for vice-president, made public last
night a letter from President Wilson ex
pressing
TO BUILD STEAMSHIP FLEET.
United States Ship Building Co. Buys
Site at New London.
New York, Nov. 23 The United
States Ship Building company has bought
30 acres of land on the cast bank of the
Thames near New London, Conn., as a
site for a ship yard and will build there
a fleet of ocean-going freight steamers
for its own use, it was announced here
last night by Charles W. Morse, presi
dent of the company.
Mr. Morse said the construction of the
plant would begin as soon as possible,
that it would probably be completed in
two years and would employ 4,000 or
5,000 men.
"At the start," Mr. Morse, "we prob
ably shall build a fleet of ten ships at
the new yard. They will be of fi.OOO or
8,000 tons each, probably all of the same
sine."
Mr. Morse said the purchase meant
that the company would expand its car
rying operations begun when he formed
the company last December by combin
ing established concerns.
1.000 students in Harvard union last ! "uppon during tne recent, campaign, lhe
night, Coach Percy I). Haughton of the j letter rea(1
ment to Fairfax from the nearest rail
road station, the roads being exception
ally bad.
made.
He was born in Huntington, Nov. 14,
1K-"K, the son of ' Kphraim' ami Lydia
(Kimball) Wheeler, but the early part
of his life was passed in West Bolton,
where his father died. He was married
August 5, 177. to May Florence Warren
of Middlesex by Rev. J. M. Fulton at
ppreciation of Mr. Parker's i -Montpelier. lhey resided in Middlesex
lor a snort time, men removed to Harre
And a Good Many Were Customers at
Universalist Ladies' Sale.
A chicken-pie supper and a lively sale
in the miniature market place which
forms one corner and two sides of the
church parlors ushered in the annual galo
of the women of the Universalist church
Wednesday afternoon and evening. If
the proceeds of the afternoon sale prom
ised to eclipse some of the records estab
lished by the Universalist women in
years past, the chicken-pie hungry crowd
which assembled at 5 o'clock gave fur
ther and conclusive proof that this year's
bazaar, when it has run its course of
three afternoons and three evenings, will
have set the pace for some years to come.
Business, from the moment the vestry
was opened to the public until after the
chicken-pie gathering, was unusually
brisk.
If as much may be said for the sales
his afternoon and those of to-morrow,
then the success of the bazaar is cer
tainly assured. To-night there will be a
miscellaneous program in charge of Mies
Blanche J. TilJen. who has brought to
gether an attractive personnel of local
talent that is bound to furnish entertain
ment and instruction. The sale this aft
ernoon continued with vigor. Christmas
SKULL WAS FRACTURED.
The police found Denning in a dying
sinking and the victims struggling in eonoiuon. no nao snot nimseit just
the waves and promptly responded to a.bov!. the right ear, tho bullet passing
tho appeals for help. An Anglo-French
squadron from Piraeus, comprised of de
stroyers and auxiliaries, immediately
went to the scene.
"The injuries of some of those on
board are very severe, especially the oc
cupants of two boats which were caught
by the propellers of the steamer. The
women of Zea tore up their clothing to
bandage tho injured.
'The Britannic had 3,000 beds, which
had been prepared for the reception of
sick and wounded an hour prior to the
torpedoing."
SURROUNDING ORSOVA.
Berlin Official Statement Tells of Fur
ther Teuton Progress.
London, Nov. 23. Rapidly pressing
their advantage in western Rumania, the
Austro-tierman forces are completing
the investment of Orsova. which lies
where the Hungarian, Serbian and Ru
manian borders meet.
The official report issued at Berlin last
niht says:
"Near Orsova (Rumania) we are progressing."
The only news of Rumania from en
directly tnrougn nis noaa. lie was
breathing, but did not regain conscious
ness.
The weapon he used was a new revolv
er of .32 calibre. It contained two un
used cartridges, and showed two shots
had been fired
Denning has a mother and two sisters
living in Manchester.
POLIO CAME FROM NORWAY.
And May Re-Appear Again, Says Dr.
Simon Flexner.
New York, Nov. 23. That the epidem-
ic of infantile paralysis in this city the
past summer originated in Norway in
IWXi and may re-appear here was the
assertion last night of Dr. Simon Flex
ner, director of research in the Rockfeller
institute. In an address to the Brooklyn
institute of arts and science, he said
that as to the future of the disease in
this country he feared it had "spread too
far and become too firmly entrenched
ever to be eradicated. He added, how
ever, that he was confident its re-appearance
would be sporadic.
"The outbreak; of last summer was in
tente sources tlie Russian official state-'the nature ot a phenomenon," said l)r.
ment say that "in the Jiul valley the Flexner, "for never in the history of the
Rumanian troops, under pressure "from (world have so many eases of the disease
thp enemy, are retiring toward Craiova." j been confined to one locality. The last
Nothing of importance occurred on the previous appearance of infantile paraly-
other fronts, and the situation in Do-iis in large numbers was in Xorwsy in
Ii, and near Rutland, t when, in
bnidja is unchanged.
Apparently the Craiova report ante
dates the tier man announcement of the
Oil capture.
16. about 2"0 rases were reported. New
York's plague of last summer has since
traveled around the globe."
J. C. Hammond Injured By a Blast at
East Franklin.
East Franklin. Nov. 23.-J. C. Ham
mond was seriously injured while blast
ing by being hit on the head by a piece
of the stone. Ho suffered a fractured
skull beside a bad cut. He was a at
tended by Dr. C. U. Johnson of WesC
Berkshire, assisted by Dr. J. B. Hall of
Franklin and Dr. C. A. Pratt of Knosburg
Falls. His condition is said to be favorable.
"GREENACRE" FOUNDER DEAD.
Miss Sarah J. Fanner Started Free Re
ligious Discussion Colony.
Eliot, Me., Nov. 23. Sarah J. Farmer,
founder of the Greenacre eolonv, which
attracted wide attention because of free
discussion of religious subjects, died last
night. The eolonv recently was almost
football team warned them to beware
of our confidence, because he said:
"It is an insidious disease and has beat
en many a Harvard team before this."
He criticized the students for their
lack of su Vort of the team at the Brown
game last Saturday, and urged them
to go to New Haven "to holler until
you are black in the face and so hoarse
you can only whisper." Pointing ) Har
vard 'varsity team, whicl "ris seated
on the stage, Coach Haughton said:
"These fellows arc going to outplay and
outfight Yale, but it is up to you fel
lows to outeheer Yale in the stands."
Captain Dadmun also pleaded for bet
ter support by the students than was
given in the Brown game. He has writ
ten a new song for the Yale game on
Saturday.
The varsity team as it lined up to
day, and is expected to face the Yale
team, was as follows:
C. A. Coolidge, left -end; Wheeler, left
tackle; Dadmun, left guard; Harris, cen
ter; Snow, right gnardi ('aner, right tac
kle: Hart, right end; Robinson, quarter
back; Thatcher, left half-back; Casey,
right half-back; Horween, fullback.
Mv Dear Mr. Parker:
"Now that the campaign is over, may
I not tell you how my admiration has
been excited by your course of action, a
course marked by principle, self-respect,
generosity and a high sense of public
duty! I hope that it will be possible for
me some time to express in person my
warm feeling of admiration and appre
ciation.
"Cordially and sincerely yours,
"Woodrow Wilson."
FORMER BARRE WOMAN.
GREEK GOVERNMENT
REFUSES TO COMPLY
Will Not Surrender Part of Its Supplies
of Arms and Am
munition. London, Nov. 23. The Greek govern
ment has refused to comply with the de
mand of the trtcnte allies for the sur
render of, a part of its supplies of arms
and ammunition. Renter's Amsterdam
correspondent cables.
HAS MISSED THREE ISSUES.
Editor of The Vermont Advance Said to
Be Collecting Funds.
Burlington, Nov. 2; The Vermont Ad
vance, a weekly paper which was started
three years ago in the interests of the
Progressive party and whose Mitv-cpicut
editor was Arthur Piatt Howard, has
Mrs. L. A. Mclver Went to Edmonton,
Where She Died.
News was received this morning in
Barre of the death of Mrs. L. A. Mclver
at her home iu Edmonton, Alberta, after
an i!lnes of many years. The family
left Barre for Edmonton about eicht
years ago and have since resided there.
Mrs. Mclver is survived bv her husband
and one daughter, Evelyn; three sisters,
Mrs. Wallace Marvin of the Montpelier
road, Mrs. Catherine Morrison of Mont
real and Miss Mary MeLeod, wTio had
lived with the Mclver family in Edmon
ton; also bv one brother, Murdo MeLeod
of Lenwick! P. Q.
SUPPOSED TO BE 90.
Thomas Herbert Died Yesterday at Wa
terbury of Pneumonia.
Waterbury, Nov. 23. Thomas Herbert
died of pneumonia yesterday at his home
on Ricker mountain. He was supposed
to he 00 years old, was born in Ireland,
came to the United States when a young
man and had lived on the farm where
he died for half a century. He married
Margaret Kclty of Waterbury, who died
seven years ago.
Mr. Herbert is survived bv four chil
dren, T. F. Herbert, Thomas, Herbert,
Mrs. Alexander of Waterbury and Mrs.
K. O. .Kizer of Montpelier; also five
grand children and four great grandchil
dren. The funeral will be held at St.
Andrew's church Friday morning at 10
o clock.
for a five years' stay and then to East
Montpelier. They lived in the lattT
place for two years and then came to
Montpelier. Besides his wife he leaves
one son, Albert Warren Wheeler, and
sisters, Mrs. Nellie Kellogg, wit'a of
George Kellogg and Mrs. Eva Reynolds,
both of West Bolton. Three daughters
were also born to Mr. and Mrs. Wheeler,
two died iu infancy and the Uiird, Flor
ence Mae, died sixteen years ago, when
18 years old.
The funeral will be held to-morrow
afternoon at i o'clock from his late home,
Rev. J. W. Barnett of the Barre Congre
gational church officiating. Burial will
be made in Green Mount cemetery, Montpelier.
NEW PARALYSIS CASE
disrupted by factional differences and j skipped three weeks, ami the office of
Miss Farmer in 1010 was declared insane
and until a few months ago wss under
restraint at a Portsmouth, N. 'H., sanitarium.
BOTH ATTACKS FAILED.
Berlin Sayg British and French Were Un
successful
Berlin, bv wireless, Nov. 23. Attacks
by the British yrstenlay on the Somme
front near (iueudecourt and one bv the
French in the vicinity of St. Pierre Vasst
wood mere without success, the war office
announces. ,
Pioneer in English Airship Building.
London, Nov. 23. Sir teorgc White
died last night.
the publication in the Strong building
was not open when an inquisitive news
paper man tried to enter yesterday, it
is understood that nearly all the fur
nishings and stocks have been attached
by the sheriff's department, some of it
on writs in favor of Guy B. )rtn. who
A Henry-Ford Wheel on Independent
Excursion.
A new Ford automobile started to dis
integrate while being towed up North
Main street from tho station to the ga
rage on South Main street this after
noon, the left rear wheel leaving the re
mainder of the vehicle with perfect in
dependence, rolling along Washington
str.-et for a piece and then deciding to
turn into Kim street, which it did with
The trip was successfully 8"opppr? are a weaitn ot oppor-
most of the articles offered for sale arp
timely and selected with excellent dis
crimination. Except for the intervals
allowed for Miss Tilden's entertainment,
the sale will continue this evenin.
Again to-morrow afternooon buyers will
be accommodated at all booths. Socially,
at least, and financially without doubt,
the 1016 bazaar of the Universalist wom
en will reach its climax when the much
heralded calico dance is to be staged in
Howland hall. There ere indications this
early that the attendance will be large.
A number of unique features are planned
and good music will be furnished.
More than 200 people were served at
the chicken-pie supper, arrangements for
which were in charge of Mrs. E. T. Mow
er, who was ablv assisted bv a number
of the younger women of the parish. The
dining room was in charge of Mrs. Etta
Leonard and during the supper hour
there was victrola music, the vietrola
having been loaned by Cummiiigs 4 Lew
is. It was a genuine get-together and
aside from the culinary triumph scored
by the women's society, it was a most
enjoyable social feature of the bazaar.
The food booth is in charge of Mrs.
C. N. Benedict, who is assisted by Mrs.
Grace Camp, Mrs. John C. Dodge and
Mrs. Robert Gray. Articles arranged in
wholesome-looking fashion were much in
demand in that neighborhood. A variety
of aprons is offered at the next booth.
where Mrs. Agnes Bradford and Mrs. K.
O. Allen are in charge. Naturally, pat
ronage in some circles deviates at once
toward the confectionery counter, where
home-made candies are sold bv Mrs.
Leonard. Mrs. Mattie Willey, Miss
Blanche Spauldinsr, Miss Emily Dnedict,
Mrs. Mark Cutler and Misses Shirley
and Gladys Bradford. At the hsg booth,
the counter is presided over by Mrs.
George f. Bates. Mrs. Leon Luther and
Mrs. K. L. House. A special eflVrt is
made to satisfy the needs of the Christ
mas shopper at the fancy booth, where
Mrs. H. A. Richardson. Mrs. A. T. Camp
bell, Mrs. K. M. Tobin. Mrs. Sadie Kent,
and Miss Florence Converse are in
charge. At the children's booth, where
another agreeable surprise awaits the
early Christmas purchaser, ore Mrs.
tyrant A. Lane. Mrs. George K. Mc Far
land and Mrs. Walter Dougbn. U was
through the efforts of Mrs O. K. Hoi
lister and six young women th"t the at
tractive decorative scheme in the parlors
was introduced.
The general committee for tha three
davs consists of Mrs. O. K. Melsrhnd,
Rev. and Mrs. J. B. Reardon, Mrs. K. II.
Allen. Mrs. O. K. Holliter. Mis. Walter
Douglas and Mrs. G. A. Lane.
Brings Vermont's Total to 64 It Is in
Fair Haven.
Burlington, Nov. 23. Another case of
poliomyelitis in the state has been re
ported to Dr. C. F. Dalton, secretary of
the state board of health. This case is
that of Elizabeth Town, tvvo-year-olil
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Charles E.
Town of Fair Haven. The ease is consid
ered a mild one, with paralysis in only
one leg. Dr. C. S. Caverly examined the
case Tuesday, reporting yesterday.
There have this year been in all t4
cases of poliomyelitis in this state. Five
of these eas-es, three of which appeared
in January and two in February, arc
part of last year's epidemic, which would
make GE cases which actually were found
in the present epidemic, with two of the
six cases in this city abortive.
The first case to appear in the state
this suininer was that which was found
in Underbill on June 2S. There were no
cases found in July, the next case being
found on Aug. 20. The month in which
the greatest number of cases were dis
covered was October, when 24 were
found, with September second with 20
cases. There were 12 in August and two
so far. this mouth. By counties the cases
in this year's epidemic were: Benning
ton 8, Caledonia 3. ( hivtcN-n 10, Frank
lin 1, firand I-Ie 14. Lamoille 1, Orange
3. Rutland 15. Washington 1, Windham 1
and Windsor 2. .
LARGEST BUCK 302 POUNDS.
That Was By Actual Scale Weight To
tal of 620 Killed Thus Far.
I.j ndonville. Nov. 23. The totsl num
ber "of bocks reported killed up to last
evening ths 020, and in addition 24 does
.. ..nrtn.! I., it jr.!...,. . . 1. . . .. 1
sold the paper to Mer's McAllister two j remarkable skill. After traveling on Elm (filled. The lar'ne-t buck yet killed in ! Bennett and the Mi.' Frances and
FORMER NORTHFIELD MAN.
William J. Dooley, Former C. V. Dis
patcher, Died in Chicago.
Burlington. No. 23 News w V
ceived l:it evening of the death of Wil
liam J. JVtoiev in Chicago. Mr. Dooley
; .,rvive.l bv his mother. Mrs. Ellen
lVmlev. and
llirce sisters, Mrs. Katherine
months asro.
Editor McAllister ha l-en ah-ont from
the city for three weeks but in letters to
against the Aldrich biiildimr. from whir'
place it was reclaimed bv the astonished
local creditors he said he was trving iarag- man while a crowd of joy -seekers
to secure the necessary financial ba king, looked on with mirth. Bringing the
to put the paper on it feet. A the. k wheel back, the girage man lifted the
drawn upon a Maine bank and made av- ix!e of the Henry-car. replaced the
able to the editor of the Advance, en-1 hM 1 and the cavalcade started off
dorsed bv Mr. McAllister and cached bvjsgain
a local merchant, proved not to be good.
Sir George White established the first
airship factory in Fneland. He also was
a Pioneer in electric street traction, beinsr i man savs he is not worrrinn he has nev
the first to introduce it in London. He 'ertheless taken the precaution to attach
Mreet for a time it eurled up and "died- j Vprm this year was shot bv William I Asnes lwlryf this city He was born
Gould of Shrewsbury. The Rnimnl !41 i'-,r i!-'" , -,,",' "" V "
weighed pound-, actual .a!, weight, cln -at-d in the p.. .he schools and Nor
Washington countv still leds the !' unm-rsity. He was employed by
state in thf number V bucks killed. it, :the Central Vermont Ka.lway eomran.r
nearlv one MXth of t',e total. The re- n t ! graph -rk tor I., year, the la.t
m.rts by counties are a- follows; A.!.!i;"i 'cars oi . ..... ....- .
.--. i?..;.... -.i. .... or in the .lipatcncr s
Chittenden. 21 : H e t:- franklin IT- bans.
ollice at St. Al-
(irsnd Lie, none: Lamoille. :T: "ranje.
i42; Orlcan-. 24; Rutland. 71: W i-'i n--
certaia of the editor' ofUce furnishings, bruin weighed 100 pounds.
Another Black Bear Shot in Duxbury.
Waterbury. Nov. 23. A black bear j ton. !'l ; Windiiem. 7: Wiref-or.
was shot this morning hy Harold Snow One of tee u.i-ful biiiu rsor r''1"
! 1 ne ,i-'ri i
if v. v.!.
-und, nine pom
The merchant h cashes! it stst.-d yes
terday that Mr. McAllister had written
him that he would personally refund the
amount of the check. ;nd while the iahut a mile from the pla.e where Geoie i tnii-re-ssful hui.tres
Holland pot a bear recently, in that :t Mu-s lvr". Mnrv
of Ihixburv known as Dowvi!le. This I brought down a 2.s
Owiiie. t tadins health he had spent
, two vesrs in Mt. Clemens. Mich.,
t hi.-ie '. where he died. His two
-l-t.r. Mr-. Bennett and Miss Ilooley,
,re nith h'-n at the time of his death.
,. ,'e,:n.te 'irrng-nieiit have yet ! n
in:. r lie fnpcral. sihicli will be held
at Ni-rthije.d.
was 2 reara U.
I
