9he fueumeari Views
ft Largest Circulation of Any
ft Paper in Quay County ft
ft
ft
ft
ft
ft Advertisers Know Where to ft
ft Place Their Ada ft
ft ft
AND TUCUMCARI TIMES
M-1L
qoar
Covatr
VOL. XV.
TUCUMCARI, QUAY COUNTY, NEW MEXICO, THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 1016
NO. 9
COMMERCIAL CLUB ORGANIZED
-MUIRHEAD MADE PRESIDENT
AND BONEM VICE PRESIDENT
The Citizens of Tucumcnri and vi-
unity met nt the Opern House 'nst
Thursday night and organized a f'om
mercinl Cluh. The meeting was call
t'd to order by tho Secretary, Rny Z.
L'oyor, nnd A. D. Goldonberg chosen
as Chairman pro tern. Mr. Golden
I erg thanked tho citizens for tho honor
nnd called for the ttclcction of a per
tnnncnt chairman.' Mr. T. A. Muir
licnd was chosen nnd was mads tho
unanimous choice. He was escorted
to the front by three stalwnrk boosters
Mid took hold of tho reins like a vet
eran. .
Mr. Muirhead, in his own pleasing
way, thanked the citizens for bestow
ing confidence in him and placing him
tit the licnd of the organization, but
ho said lie did not intend to try to run
the Commercial Club alone, but if the
Members would get behind him and
help him push, it is possible that a
great lot of good would bo accomplish
ed. He then nsked Mr. Iloyer to give
a short summary of what had been
accomplished through the Uusiness
Men's Association acting ns n Com
mercial Club.
Mr. Boyer, one of the liveat wires
thnt ever struck n western town, nnd
thnt is saying n great deal, wns ready
and covered the proposition only to tho
extent of a few of tho mnjor achieve
ments. Ho spoko of tho 1st annual
Roundup; tho booster trip to the big
plains county in tho interest of tho
wheat and grain elevator; tho build
ing of tho elevator; the solicitation of
the business men nnd citizens nnd tho
raising of nn amount of .$10,000.00 for
tho building of a rnilroad Y. M. C. A.,
which was delayed on account of the
threatened Railroad strike, but when
things arc settled it will be built and
will cost in the neighborhood of $25,
000.00, the railroad company putting
up $15,000 ns its part. Ho read a let
ter from Secretary Day which stated
Will WVV. 1 WIUI j W UiVU nUt IV 11 i
Hint the building would sure be built.
The K. P. & S. W. road is waiting for jit right it will mean u good denl. If
the Rock Island to donntc her share, wo get anything wo will have to pny
but on account of tho R. I. being in i for it. The day is passed when you get
tho hands of n receiver, it is necessary something for nothing. You enn nl
to secure nn order from the courts. ' ways count on the R. I. doing her pnrt
Mr. Boyer then rend n letter from and she will assist in the building of
nn Excavator Co. of Los Angeles, in 'he Y. M. C. A.. Mr. Petersen said he
regnrd to tho irrigntion project. The , wns in favor of good ronds and Tucum
lettcr was written by the president of 1 eari should work hard to land the big
the company nnd ho said his company ! Ozark Trails. Ho then spoke of his
was now ready to finance the project, I "pot" subject, tho benr grass factory,
nnd would send n mnn hero within nj 'I, think you need one in Tucumcnri,
short time to look tho matter over,
This project is known ns the Pajnrltn
tract and contains something like "0.- j
000 ucrcs of valley land that is prnc
fically useless now only for grazing
purposes,
The Hear Grass factory is another ,
thing thnt has tnken on new life and their hogs. Ho thinks with the prop
Mr. Boyer thinks tho problem has been , or spiiit Tucumcnri can cusily be made
rolvcd nt last and machinery will bo cjly 0f 10,000 inhabitants. It has
made or imported that will use the j Very advantage necessary to make it
I ear grass while it is yet green nnd the best town in tho state,
do away with the chemical process or M A hc, h h f
jne ting vnt. He said Oklahoma state nenvt!. , th , t t f u h ,
ud installed a binder twifco 'ctory in ,)om, fiak.. , company piirchn8cd
le penitentiary nt a cost of $200,000 ! t,,0 , , b t nn CC0U)tyof , df.
It is necessary for them to ship sisal . ncutM ,t nectsal.y to nravo,
from South America or Mexico, with ,on)0 r0(1 u , orderlo cIose the
which to make the r twine. Bear grass , , , , . ,fe
makes excellent binder twino and t ' i... u,.vi,, ti,,. i. i.nn,u i!
would go well with the fiber factory. I f, J,', ""ft !'?" ",
Ho is being assisted by Mr. Petersen, , t'A L? " Inr in UnK nll Pn
of the Rock Island nnd it now looks ?.,'.n?,"?
like Tucumcnri would lnnd another
(ibor factory.
Among other things tho Commer
cial Ciub will boost for is n Federal
H ullding, new union depot, Catholic
Hospital, Business College, Creamery,
routing of tho Ozark Trails via Tu
cumcnri and Quny county.
Luncheon consisting of two kinds
of snndwlches, nnd coffee wns then
m...... J ...... .1 1 1 I ..Hnil.H. I
Forvod. After which cigars were pnss(n,cnt thnt ho wns desirous of seeing
nround nnd n genuine smoker wns I w, w8 for us nnd who is ugalnst
enjoyed puiiurs im.-iscu lur mgiui-
A selection by Mr. Burnet, ono f tures of those desiring to become mem
our best vocnlists, who wns nccompnn-j ';" Thoy woro passed through tho
ied on tho piano by Mr. Goldenberg. I ?co A rcudily signed by nearly
They wore forcccd to respond to n n" those present. It is expenled that
hearty encore. tho membership will reach 200. A
Business wns resumed nnd Uny Z.
Boyor was made secretary,
II. Boncm wns chosen unnnimously
ns vice president.
Vico presidents wore selected from
nil pnrtn of Quay county, henntor A
Calisch of Montoyn wns present nnd
wns chosen ns ono of tho vico nrcsl-
dents from out of town. Ho is n live
viro and will always be found rendy
to do his part.
OsCnr Sandusky was tho only nomt -
nee for treasurer, nnd his selection wns j
npproved by nil.
Ten directors were chosen, James
O'Rourk, F. M. Clough, A. D. Golden
berg, Alex. Street, Elmer Edwards, C.
B. Hamilton, II. Goodman, U. S. Devor
Wm. Wntkins nnd C. M. Stnnfill.
Mr. Muirhead snid thnt many things
would come boforo tho club in the near
future.
Ills attention was called to
tho poor ronds to tho plains nnd the
fnct that Vnnco Tiros, brought in sov -
en loads Thursday, ono of which wns
enshed for nearly $170.00, but these'
gentlemen Raid that unless tho ronds
wero fixed they would bo compelled to
haul their (Train to Melrose. They had
not Hold linlf their grain and have
0,000 bushels yet to mnrket.
U. S. Dovor was called to tho floor
and nsked to address tho audience on
tho matter o "Good Roads." He did
the job right and spoko mostly con
cerning tho Ozark Trails. He thinks
this is a chance of n life-time to se
cure a real auto route that will bring
hundreds of cars this way that nre
now traveling on other routes less
picturesque, lie thinks it will bo bet
'or than the Lincoln Highwuy, because
the rood will be open nearly the year
'round. It will cost about $1000.00 a '
mile to put the rood in condition to
secure the route. Three miles near
Montoyn is now in good shape and
work Is being done on the road east
if Tucumcnri. The route by Tucum
cnri is much shorter and tho road-bed
will be excellent on account of it be
ing bard and therefore it will be some 1
cheaper to properly construct. Mr.
Dovor said it means thnt we every
citizen- must get busy ns thero are 70
miles of roadbed to build in New Mex
ico. The culverts nro to bo concrete;
tho bridges iron, nnd the ronds con
structed so thnt cars may be running
10 miles nn hour nnd safely pass each
other. Los Vegas, Santn Rosa, New
kirk, Cuervo. Montoyn nnd other towns
will be on the route west from here
and they nro ready to do their part.
.las. O'Uourke spoke in regard to
the benefit to bo derived by putting
up signs nnd advertising Tucumcnri.
He said every car load of tourists left
quite a bit of money in the towns they
must stop ofT in for meals.
A. Petersen, representative of the
It. I., with headquarters at Amnrillo,
was present, and wns asked to say n
few words. Ho grnciously accepted
nnd said much to encourage those
present. He likes Tucumcnri and will
work for her interests the samo us if
ho lived here. Ho said wo hnve bo
- i i- t IIV.I ., V i-ltll utivu uu-
oro us much to be done nnd if we do
ai.vi a twine factory and a paper mill
in connection. You have worlds of
benr grass. The public needs tho pa
per and twine. Get busy."
He is nlso in favor of re-opening the
creamery so farmers will not have to
1 e l ! i mi. i .
feed hiirh-nricnd milk nnd ermm n
llw IWIIkl tlViUI YVUUIU IJUKHl WUIi
begin
nt once. He snid Tucumcnri looked
good to him, much hotter than he hat
expected, but organizntion nnd co-operation
would mnko it much bettor.
Ho is a good roads booster. Ho said
Colorado spent 1 V& million last year
on roads and this yenr will spend 2
million.
Mr. Muirhead, with tho announce
"u "l
Devor, Hurley, Street, Dodson, Fine
gan nnd Hnwkins, was selected to so
licit new membors.
Committee on Constitution nnd By-
Lawn was appointed by tho chnir to
' report us tho next meeting to bo held
luesday, Nov. UH. 'ihla commltteo Is
composed of II. Boncm, chnirman; W.
D. Shndwlck, J. W. Corn nnd Irn E.
f urr.
1 Tho meeting next Tuesdny night
will bo held nt tho Court House in the
court room nnd it is desired that ev
ery good roads booster, or Quay coun
ty booster, will bo present nnd Jend
nssistnnco to tho making of Tucumcnri
nnd Quny County "Bigger nnd Better.'
PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH
Thero will be tho regular services
' in tho Prcsbytcrinn church next Sun-
(lay nt 11 n. m. nnd 7:30 p. m.
1 Tho stereopticon lecturo nt 7:30 will
i be, "Tho History of tho Pntrinrchs."
It will bo followed by an illustrated
song: "Abldo With Me."
Sunday school 10 n. m.
Christian Endeavor Society 7 p. m
THANKSGIVING, TEURSDAY, NOV. 30
President Wilson nnd Governor McD.mnld have formally by proclamation
designated Thursday, November 30th. as Thanksgiving Day. Tho president
says "It long has been the custom of o r people to turn In the fruitful au
tumn of the year in praise and thniik- .iving to Almighty God for his many
blessings nnd mercies to us and the na ton. The year that has elupscd since
wo last observed our day of Thankg .'ing lias been rich in blessings to us
ns n people, but tho whole face of the ;orId has been darkened by war. In
the midst of our pence nnd happinesi our thoughts dwell with painful dis
quiet upon the struggles and suffering of the nations nt wnr and of the pen
pics upon whom war has brought dis ister without choice or possibility of
escape on their pnrt. We ennnot think of our happiness without thinking of
their pitiful distress."
TUCUMCARI BANKER ELECTED
PRESIDENT OF ASSOCIATION
The convention of the New Mexico
Bunkers' Association, which was in
session in Albuquerque last week end
ed Thursday. The bankers elected two
acting ofilcors to tho places which
.hey filled at tho convention. II. B.
.(ones acted us president in the ab
sence of John Corbett of Doming, who
was ill, und William A. McMillin, cash
ier of the American Trust nnd Savings
tank, acted us secretary in the ab
sence of J. C. Christcnscn. Mr. Jones
and Mr. McMillin were elected to the
officers they filled. The officers of the
ussocintion for next year arc:
President H. B. Jonc3, president o"
the First National Bank of Tucum
cnri. Vice President John W. Poe, of the
Citizens' National Bank of Roswell.
Secretary W A. McMillin, cashier
if the American Trust & Savings bank
of Albuquerque.
Trensurer--C. A. Nyhus, of the 1st
N'ntionnl bank of Raton.
The plnce where tho bankers will
'iold their next convention will be sc
ooted by the executive committee. The
'Jankers' Association regards Albu
querque ns its home nnd the next mcot
ng will be held there unless strong
easons for its going elsewhere are
rotight to tho attention of the execu
ive committee, in accordance with n
(.solution adopted by tho association
nvo yenrs ngo. hi I'nso nnd bantn re
invited tho bunkers to meet in the
Pass City nnd Ancient City. Their in-
ltntions will bo considered ly the ex
ecutive committee.
More than fifty bankers from points
tutsido of Albuquerque attended the
onvcntion. Many of the visitors were
iccompnnicd by their wives nnd fami
lies. One hundred and forty persons
tvero seated nt tho banquet tnbles Tucs
lay night at the Alvnrado hotel, when
Albuquerque bnnkers entertained tho
visitors.
NEW LAUNDRY MACHINERY
Chns. McCrne, the lnundrymnn, Is
uiro putting his laundry in tho first
zlnss. About ten months ngo he pur
chased some Universal pressing ma
chines. They were supposed to be the
latest things out and cost him $700.00.
This week ho received four now Troy
Tandem presses, which ho will use
for tho better class of work such as
pressing palm bench suits, and white
suits. Ho also received a now shirt
dceve ironer. Tho old machines will
bo used for ironing overalls. Mr. Mc-
Croo believes in keeping his money
tied up in now machinery. There Is
nothing but what he will have in the
future nnd this will call for nn cnlarg-
ment of his present quarters.
FIRST NATIONAL BANK HAS
NEARLY 3-1 MILLION DEPOSIT
Tho First National Bank is publish
Ing n condensed statement in this is
silo of tho News which is the best
that or any other bank in Tucumcnri
every published. It shows ensh on
hand nt more than n third of u million
dollnrs, tho exnet figures being $300,-
827.72. Deposits amounting to $07.1,
851.27 nro also shown with n surplus
nnd profits of $12,155.39. Look up
tho nd. and rend every line of it. It
will show you thnt some of tho coun
try's cold cash is getting out this wny
and wo do not sell war material to
foreign countries, other thnn food ar
ticles.
THANKSGIVING SERVICE
Thoro will be Union Thnnksgiving
services held in tho Methodist church
next Thursday, Novcmbor 30th, nt 10
n. m. Tho offering will bo for tho Or-
phanngo nt Albuquerque.
UOCK ISLAND TO BE RE-OR-G
A NIB ED PL A N A N NO UNCED
New York, Nov. M. Plans for the
eorg.mization f ti)0 Chicago Rock
slnnd and Pacific railway company,
verc announced here tonight, and pro
vide that the stockholders purchase 7
icr cent preferred stock at par to the
xtent of -10 per cent of their present
loldings. In other words, for every
hare of their present stock, it was ox
dained, tho stockholders will obtain
j-10 par value of the new preferred
tock, and $100 pur value of new com-
non stock.
Tho common stock issue of the new
ompany will be the same as that of
he present company und the new
ash thus provided will be approxi-
innately $30,000,000. The present $20.-
100,000 par value debentures, are to
e o.-chunged for an equal amount, par
alue, of 0 per cent preform! stock.
flic coupons maturing January lft,
(10, and July lfi, 1010 on tho present
icbentures, are to be paid in cash and
he stock will bo cumulative up to a
ier cent per annum. The money to
u thus raised, it is said, will be np
ilied in payment or acqulsion of two
ear collateral secured gold notes, col
iteral secured loans, receiver's ccr
ilicates nnd for reorganization re
tirements nnd future working capital.
As a result of paying oft the re
eiver's certificates and the collateral
ecuied loans, there will bo presently
ealized to the new company approxi
uitely $20,000,000 first and refund
ng bonds, besides other bonds which
all become available for future im
irovcments. From this $20,000,000,
o be presently realized, tho plan con
emplatcs the sale of approximately
15,000,000 faco amount of the first
.ml refunding bonds so that the now
ompany will be in position to meet
he $12,500,000 first gold mortgage
ixes, maturing July 1917, without rc
orting to tho cash raised from the
nlo of preferred tock to the stock
holders. The plan leaves undisturbed $257,
T8,38.1 of secured obligations nnd the
quipmcnt of trusts of the railway com
iany nnd its subsidiary corporations;
ind through tho exahnngo of deben
urcs into preferred stock nnd the
inymont of various obligations to be
net out of tho cash requirements of
ho plan, the fixed charges of the rnil
vay company will bo reduced from
12,277,095 to $10,022,095.
'.(JOAN MERCHANTS WOULD
LIKE SOME ROADS UP THERE
J. E. Johnson, one of the lending cit
zens of Logan, read tho broom corn
irticlo in the News last week and
ie says the nrticlo did not do his pnrt
)f the county justice. They raise the
incst broom corn, grow prnirio chick
ens and need moro roods thnn nny
dace north of tho plnins. Mr. John
nn has long since realized tho great
cnefit derived from building good
mid.s and would no doubt tnko the
'end in uny movement thnt would con
icct his town with the county Feat. As
t is they are compelled to rldo the
rain, when if n bridge wero built near
hat town over the Canadian, it would
ie tho beginning of u rogulnr stnto
,uito road from Dnlhart to Tucumcari.
H would mean much to every town in
the county between Tucumcnri nnd the
Toxns lino.
FANCY CLUB
Mrs. C. M. Bueler wns tho hostess to
tho newly orgnnized fancy club on last
w i l mL. l
.Mommy evening. ino mcmoera nro
Mendamcs Snnds, Bucler and Kohn;
Misses Koch, Sandusky, Murphy, Horn I piled published and issued by the do
Gnnn. Lorkc, Tnylor, Syler, Stearns 'pnrtmcnt of the Interior of tho General
nnd King.
Tho noxt meeting will bo with Miss
Gnnn.
OLD SPANISH LAND GRANT
TAKING IN TOWN OF TUCUM
CARI IS FILED FOR RECORD
Considerable excitement has been
caused in Tucumcnri nnd Quny coun-1
ty by the receipt nnd filing of an old
deed covering a Spanish Land Grant.
The papers arrived by express and
were delivered to the ollicc or tho coun
ty clerk with instructions to file them
immediately. Tho necessary cash for
the filing fee was not quite sufficient
to pay the expense so the filing was
postponed until last week when the
entries were made, and it wns publicly
known that such a deed was in exist
ence. Tht! memorandum of the in
structions of the supposed Spanish
I Land Grant, loented in Quay county,
one of which will affect thousands of
ueres in the county, taking in the town
of Tucumcnri.
Lawyers are puzzled over the situ
ation but it is thought the papers are
of no special value because they should
have been filed nt n time when such
leeds were being recognized, hut it
will hnvo to pass through a certain
process of law in order to clear the
land titles of all property within its
bounds.
j The papers show the first transfer
'was made March 13, 18.12 when Jose
Manuel Royuolo and John Charles
licnlcs deeded the land described to the
Governor of the Stnto of Coahuila, and
Texas. The land is described as fol
lows: "Beginning at a land mark set up
on tho spot whereat the thirty-scc-mg
degree of North lititiidc is cross
oil by the meridian of tho one hundred
and second degree to longitude west
'rom London, said spot being at tho
southwest corner of the land petition'
d for by Col. Reuben Ross; from
i hence proceeding vest nlong tho par
lllcl of the thirt.vceond dngreo of
longitude as far a.-, tho enstcrn boon.
lary of New Mexico. From thence
mining north on the boundary line
'letween the provinces-of Coahuila and
Texas, and New Mexico ns far as twen
y leagues south of the River Arkan
as, from thence enst to tho meridian
if the ono hundred and twenty-second
legrce of longitude, which is the west
ern boundary of the grant petitioned
'or by tho snid Col. Reuben Ross, nnd
from thence proceeding south n fnr
n tho place of beginning.
Conditions
Petitioners agree to locate on said
!nnd two hundred foreign families,
vithin the period of six yenrs; to
ibido by the laws of the state and lo
ality, und to take up arms in the de
fence of the Mexican nation whenever
necessary.
(Signed)
John Charles Beales
Jose Manuel Royucla
Note--Petition accepted and signed
iy Santiag odel Valle, Secretnry of
.his government on March M, 1832.
Another1 deed was given October 11,
'832 by Jose Manuel Itoyuela to John
Smiles Beales. This was a Warranty
Oced a ndconveyed nil the right of
lose Manuel Royucla in the Coloniza
ion proposition formerly entered into
y himself nnd John Charles Beales
o the said Beales.
On July 2. 1873 John C. Beales deed
ed the grant to James Alfred Greaves
3eoles, Adelaide Kerrison Jnffrcy, and
nita Exeter, his children, by means
if an Executor's Will.
No vnluation was shown other than
he promise of Colonization of such
Mact or grant, but on November 17,
880 for $1,250,000.00, tho children
cave a warranty deed for the grant
o Newton B. Child. The description
icing given differently from thnt re
corded in the first transfer.
November 23, 1880, Newton B.Chllds
md Nellie Childs, his wife deeded the
;rnnt to the Inter-State Land Com
oany. This deed was executed on Nov. 20,
1880, before S. M. Spongier, notnry
while, Jackson county, Mo., nnd cer
ified to by M. S. Bun, clerk of Jack
on county, Mo.
Juno 21. 1898, tho Inter-Stutc Land
Company gave n warranty deed to
Georgo R. Collins, for $1.00 nnd other
valuable consideration
Tho description given nt this time
wns ns follows
Beginning nt the plnco where the
hirtv-fifth degree of latitude inter
sects nnd crosses tho established boun
dary line of the Stntc of Texas nnd
tho Territory of Now Mexico, an op
proved by tho uct of Congress, Mnrch
1. 1891: thenco north nlong the snid
boundary line fifteen miles nnd to tho
established norther boundnry lino of
Guadalupe county, Territory of New
Mexico, fifty miles; thenco south twen
ty-soven miles to tho bluffs of tho
Llano Estncado; thenco following snid
bluffs of tho Llano Estncado in nn ir
regular enstcrly, north ensterly nnd
cnsterlv direction to the plnce or be
ginning. Snid boundary designntions
being in conformity to the offlcinl map
oeing in couiurimiy iu inu tuiii-iiu mui
I of tho Territory of New Mexico, corn-
Lnnd Office of tho United States of
America. A. D ono thousnnd eight
hundred tnd ninety-six, nnd contaln-
ing 500,000 acres of lnnd, more or lcs.v
Executed by Intcr-Stntc Lund Com
pany, by Charles Goodnight, Pres., by
K. L. Carney, Secretnry.
Tho execution was made before J.
B. McCIellan, notary public, Donley
county, Texns, on July 5, 1898, ns to
Charles Goodnight.
E. L. Carney made his execution in
Jackson county, Mo., Sept. 20, 1898.
Address of George R. Collins, .100-10
Westover Bldg., Kansas City, Mo. He
now appears us the owner of this vast
tract, which runs north to tho Cnnu
dian river, south to tho Cnp Rock, cast
to Texns lino and west to section line
fast of Hanley, taking in Tucumcnri.
It will be remembered thnt two or
three parties have recently arrived in
this county to look for the land thoy
had purchased, supposed to ho a por
tion of a big land grant. They gen
tlemen could not find where any com
pany or nny mnn owned n grant in
Quay county and returned homo to
nrosooiito the fakirs. Uncle Sam wns
notified about the deal being worked
by these customs nnd the filing of this
old deed is no doubt a clever ruso to
clear themselves of any fraud.
The deed is not worth the paper it
it written on because Uncle Sam will
l.c obliged to tnko the matter in hand
and clear the title for those who en
tered and homcstcaded such lnnd. The
U. S. does not give a warranty deed
to anything, but it would not be right
to let this old document interfere with
the titles of thousands upon thousands
of dollnrr worth of land and improve
ments. The matter will properly nd
just itself, but until it does, the ab
stracters are up against it to know
just whnt to do.
ENTERTAINMENT A SUCCESS
One of the best entertainments of
tho year was given nt the Opera house
Friday evening by tho pupils of the
Central school in connection with :i
musical program by Miss Elizabeth
Garrett, tho blind daughter of the old
time resident of New Mexico, Pat Gnr
rett. Miss Garrett is one of tho best mu
sicians thnt ever visited Tucumcnri,
and, being blind, made her selections
all the more wonderful. She plays the
piano nearly perfect and her vocal
numbers wore excellent as she had
no trouble in reaching the highest
notes clearly and at tho same time pro
nouncing the words distinctly. Miss
Garrett mnde a number of friends
luring her stay in Tucumcnri, and
icing a native New Mexican, we nre
proud of her. She wrote the Stnto
ong adopted n year ago and has com
posed a number of difficult pieces. She
rendered six of her own ine-'iv-. ! riday
night and they were enjoyed by nil
who understand music.
The pupils little girls and boys
n producing the operetta. "The Pink
arasol, " did their parts exceedingly
well under the leadership of their in
structors the teachers. Most of the
ilny was in the dark and those in the
audience could not recognize tho looti
ng participants, but they nil did splcn-
lidly nnd the Inrgc nudience, which
greeted the youngsters, was well en-
ertnined nnd highly plensed nt being
able to claim such good tnlent ns home
production.
BANK MAKES STEADY GROWTH
In a '.i-pngc ad. published in the
Nows this week will bo noticed the
facts concerning the steady growth of
tho Americnn National Bnn'.t of Tu
cumcari. This young bank is but lit
tle over two years old, yet it hns gain
ed tho confidence of its depositors by
the strict business methods used by
its officers. This nd shows tho bank
to hnve in ensh nnd due from other
banks $7-1,45 1.01. Although the bnnk
hns pnid three dividends during the
past yenr and n hnlf; this nd. shows
the bank to have $.1,290,27 in its sur
plus and profits fund. The deposits
liuve steadily increased until on tho
17th dnv of November, when tho call
wns mnde, the bank wns caring for
$127,113.82 for its friends nnd pa
trons. Tho bank Is lonning money on
good security nnd will not nccept uny
thing but thnt which is believed abso
lutely safe. On another pngc is print
ed the official statement which wlB
show .you to tho minutest detail what'
this hank is doing for Tucumcnri nnd
Quay county.
BYRON BARTON DEAD
Byron Bnrton, ono of tho first set
tlers of Tucumcnri, nt ono time owner
of considerable property, died at 3:00
a. m Tuesdny, November 21, 1910,
nged 40 yenrs.
Funornl servicos were held at 3:J0
p. m., Wednesday, Nov. 22, at Koch's
Undertaking Pnrlors, Rev. E. D. Lewis
pastor of tho Methodist church, of
ficiating, Tho body was shipped to Herington,
Kansas for burial
Walter Hart, n travellngjialesman,
with headquarters at Kansas City, was
in Tucumcari this week on business.
4
