CLAYTON
" "
11
i 11 iilL-4
VOLUME li
CLAYTON, NEW MEXICO, THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 1916.
44
1
J)
L
1
r
A COMPARISON OF
TWO SCREEN PICTURES
"TI1E PATRIOT" AND "THE
SHRINE OF HAPPINESS" A
CONTRAST
The "Shrine of Happiness" with
Jackie Saunders as the "star" at the
Mission last Saturday evening was a
picture-play worth while. With the
exception of the one tragedy scene,
which could easily have been avoided
with a iar more interesting outcome,
. it is one of the very best, high-class
pictures ever filmed. It is sprinkled
here and there with just enough com
edy to heighten the life and effect of
the story taken as a whole. The
simplicity of .the beautiful Marie in
the home of the bachelor brothers,
the elder of whom was an old time
friend of her father, who dying sent
' her to his friend, is natural and is
brought out by "Jackie" with pleasing
effect. After her school days, the
force of which brings to view whole
some characteristics in the foreground
of life in the career of beautiful Marie,
the triangular sacrifices in the lives
of the three begin to evolve, and,
through intricate, but natural, plot
with pleasing, rational detail, continue
to a happy ending for all. Such screen
stories are worth while. They are ed-
. ucational and uplifting and are really
what ninety per cent of photoplay pa
trons want and appreciate. There are
no longer any thrills in the tragedies
of human life, Stories that tend to
uplift in life, rather than a down-pull
to tragedy and death, are what the
people want. In doleful, painful con
trast is the story of "The Patriot" in
which William S." Hart, the .great
screen actor, was the star. "The Pa
triot" starts out well and is true to
life up to the episode in which the man
who had fought for, and been betray
ed by the agent of his country and
agent of its system of legalized usurp
ation, supplanting and robbery, . de
termines to go to Mexico, join the
bandits and betray his country. From
that point to the end the episodes are
mere vagaries in blunderland, and,
though Hart fails in nothing assigned
him, the balance of the story appeals
only to the most primitve and unedu
cated, unthinking minds. The intrigue
with the Mexican bandits, an impos
sible episode for the transaction of a
"patriot," the death of little "Bobbie's"
mother just in the nick of time, and
for no other purpose or reason than,
to give "the patriot," who is betray
ing his country, just think of such
inconsistency an opportunity to re
pent, the display of military or rather
bush-whacking, action, the final vic
tory of the American forces over a
handful of ordinary bandits, the res
cue of little "Bobbie" by the repentant,
redeemed "patriot," and his final es
cape to the mountains with little
"Bobbie" in his arms on a government
horse as the reward of his double act
of perfidy, first to the forces of his
native country and second to the Mex
ican bandits are all cheap appeals to
the poorest, weakest' spots in the hu
man make-up; and yet the people, who
expect higher and better things of
photoplay producers and help to main
tain the industry by their patronage,
are imposed upon, not by the exhibitor
who is also imposed upon, but by the
producers whose story titles are too
ften misleading and deceptive. Wil
liam S. Hart is a wonder in screenland,
hut his own native screenland, in such
Inductions as "The Patriot," is trai
tor to his screen capabilities, reduc
ing the exponent of his screen powers
te the lowest possible-figure.
GRAY LUMBER YARDS SOLD
T. A. Gray sold his lumber yards at
Clayton and Mt. Dora, last Saturday
to the Star Lumber Company of Lib
eral, Kansas, and will now go into the
stock-farming business on his big 4
" section farm and ranch, 27 miles
southwest of Clayton. Tom says
that cattle and farm products look
.bettert o him than lumber sales, be
they ever so good.
Prominent Republican Dead
St. Paul, Minn., Nov. 21. Chester
A. Congdon of Duluth, republican na
tial committeeman from Minnesota,
élci at a local hotel today, after an
illness of two weeks, with pleurisy.
CHURCHES TO HOLD
THANKSGIVING SERVICE
.
On next Thursday,' November 30, Thanksgiving Day, an old fash
ioned Thanksgiving Service is to be conducted at the Baptist Church.
The people of Clayton, are to receive this treat through the efforts of
Rev. J. Q. Herrín, who was the originator of the idea, and to the
hearty co-operation of the other pastors, of the town. This is to be
a Union service and all the churches will participate. Special music
has been arranged for, which will be given by the, High School Glee
Club, under the direction of Mjss Chamberlain. Rev. H. Richmond
Mills, D. D., will deliver the sermon and has taken for his subject,.
"The Causes of Thanksgiving."
This is the first service of this kind that has been given in this
town and the people of Clayton, irrespective of denomination or be
liefs should make a special effort to attend this service and show
their appreciation of the efforts of those who are doing their best
o make the service entertaining as well as educational. It should be
the duty of every citizen to take an active pat in this service, attend
and devotedly thank "God" for the prosperity and blessings bestowed
on us, both as individuals and community. '
A DRAMATIC CRITICISM
(Washington Star)
The late Richard Harding Davis
was once talking about the decay of
American letters.
"We have no great "writers any
more," he said, "because great writ
ing is frowned down on by publishers
and critics alike.
"The publisher and the critic, when
confronted with a piece of great writ
ing, act exactly like the tin can editor
when he came to criticse a perform
ance of 'Hamlet.'
"'In this piece,' the editor began,
'there is too much chinning.' The au
thor is behind the times, and forgets
that what the people want nowadays
is thrilling situations, brilliant detec
tive work and , pretty girls. In the
hands of an up to date playwright a
sleuth would have been put on the
trail of Ham's uncle and the old man
would have been hunted down in a
way to lift the gallery gods right out
of their boots. The "moral of the piece
is not good. The scene where Hamlets
sasses his old mother sets a very bad
example to the rising generation. Our
advice to the author is a little more
action, a lot more sentiment and a
spice of variety business in his next
piece.' "
Auto Fees For October
Santa Fe. Nov., 21. The October
collection from automobile fees by
Secretary State Antonio Lucero,
amounted to $1,(518, while for the first
ten months of the year they totaled
$47,477.78. The annual income from
this source of revenue this year will
reach $50,000. .
Dies From Blow in Neck
Santa Fe, Nov. 21. A blow in the
ncek, while wrestling resulted in the
death of Fraincisco Rael, a merchant
on the Agua Fria road. He was aged
50 vears and a ntive of Cnta Fe. A
widow, two sons and a daughter sur
vive. The funeral will take place
from Guadalupe church tomorrow
with Father Besset officiating.
PROGRAM OF THANKS
GIVING SERVICE
To Be Held at Baptist Church, Thurs-
day, Morning at 11:09 O'Clock
Hymn - Congregation
Invocation.
Special Music Ladies Quartette
Reading of Proclamation.
Solo j..... Mrs. W. W. Rixey
Reading of Scripture
Rev. G. B. Kellcms,
Hymn Congregation
Prayer - Rev. D. H. Holland
Special Music Girls Glee Club
Sermon "The Causes of Thanksgiving"
Rev. H. Richmond Mills
Hymn Congregation
Renediction Rev. G. G. Elder
All in the community are cordially
invited to attend this service. Out of
grateful hearts for the many bless
ings of the year let us return unto
he Lord the praise and thanksgiving
due onto His name, and worship the
Lord in the beauty of holiness.
THOSE ELECTION
IRREGULARITIES
It seems almost an impossibility to
have elections conducted in Union
county strictly upon "the square" and
according to the provision of the stat
utes. - Reports are coming in of all
sorts of irregularities and some at
tempted frauds where none were ex
pected. For instance, in one precinct,
it is reported that as the counting of
the ballots proceeded and it was found
that certain candidates were not . re
ceiving the expected majorities, the
ballot box was kicked around on the
floor until' the baftots were scattered
about on the floor and again picked up
and returned to the box after a shot
had been fired at it In another pre
cinct it is reported that every ballot
cast was mutilated in a manner which
destroys the secrecy of the ballot and
this systematically done. In another
precinct, the judges could not unlock
the box so as to proceed to canvass
and count the ballots and make up the
returns and were ordered to bring the
box to Clayton where the "master
key" to the situation could be obtained
and the judges .canvassed and counted
the ballots in Clayton with not a
single voter of the precinct present
outside themselves.
In precinct number 1, Clayton, it is
claimed that twenty-five or thirty legal
voters were denied their right of fran
chise while others who wore chal
lenged were allowed to vote indis
criminately, one of whom, being per
sistently challenged, was told, upon
displaying a straight democratic ticket
to the judges of election, by one of the
judges, to vote the ticket and if he
lost his job for so voting to apply to
the judges of election for relief. Sev
eral of the boxes did not have the re
turns of the election judges in them
when unlocked, the returns of some
having been sent to Santa Fe, and
others by express to Clayton.
Under the present regime of elec
tion procedure in Union county, irreg
ularities and frauds are not only pos
sible, but probable and, it would seem,
invited to "walk right in, sit right
down and make themselves at home."
The clerk of the board of county com
missioners holds the "master key" to
every ballot-box in Union county; the
board of county commissioners, there
fore, through their clerk, holds the
"master key" to the official election
returns from every precinct in the
county and when any of these are
personally, in addition to hieing po
litically, interested in the outcome of
an election there is furnished a temn
tation that is clearly apparent to all
and because of this fact suspicion in
the minds of thousands of people at
once arises and, though in many in
stances without justifiable founda
tion, too often with justifiable grounds
which afterward unfold under the
light of investigation. These condi
tions should not exist, but they do
exist at least in Union county.
Another thing connected with the
elections everywhere is the fact that,
too often, incompetent persons are ap
pointed to hold such elections in the
various precincts. It is often the case
that juages of the election cannot read
or write and are for such lack of ac
complishment incompetent to fill such
positions. Such conditions continually
render ample reasons and grounds for
election contests which the laws fully
provide for; but which, it would seem,
should be rendered unnecessary and
very improbable by strictly lawful
procedure in the conduct of all elec
tions which are intended to reflect the
will and voice of the people and not
the particular interests of the few.
THREATENING IS ATTI-
TUDE OF LABOR
Baltimore, Md., Nov. 21. Affilia
tion of the members of the American
Federation of Labor and the four big
brotherhoods for effecting the general
i betterment of labor was urged today
before the federation convention here
by the brotherhoods and President
Samuel A. Gompers. Delegates who
crowded the hall cheered all the
speakers enthusiastically. "We must
hang together or we wil hang sepa
rately," W. G. Lee, spokesman for the
brotherhoods and head of the Rail
road Trainmen declared.
"It is a great comfort to know,
President Gompers said, "that the
time is not far distant when the great
brotherhoods will be a part of the Am
erican Federation of Labor."
Mr. Lee explained that the laws of
the brotherhoods now prevent an of
ficial affiliation with the federation un
til after their convention is held but
he insisted that between now and that
time, the organization could co-operate
with the same purpose as if they
were officially affiliated. He also made
it plain that the brotherhoods were not
bringing their 8-hour day "troubles"
to the federation for support.
"I am about anarchist enough, how
ever, he said, "to say that we are go
ing to work for the 8-hour day for all
classes. If we can't get it peace
ably, we will fight for it."
President Gompers said:
"We expect that the railroad broth
erhoods will on January 1 next, in
augurate the 8-hour work-day and I
think I can trully say to you that
whatever arises, whatever betides,
you have the undivided support of the
organized working men and women
as represented by the American Fed
eration of Labor."
"When the money power of the
United States failed in the attempt to
corrupt the electorate and when their
plans were upset by the otes of the
citizenship of the United States, the
capitalists showed their colors. They
met and gave out a declaration , on
that they were going to antagonize
every effort put forth by organized la
bor. .But men of wealth I say to you,
be careful how far you go. There is a
limit to even human endurance. You
throw down the gaunlet and wc ac
cept the challenge. When the time
comes it will be another case of "lay
on MacDuff, and damned be he who
first cries enough.' "
W. S. Carter, president of the
Brotherhood of Railway Fireman and
Engine Men, declared in a speech that
the danger that confronts all working
people today is the "coercion or sub
ordination of the public press by the
master class."
"The coming of penny paper," he
added, "has t'.o.-.e more than thinking
else to put the press under the domi
nation of advertisers. Unfortunately
labor has but little to do with adver-
lsing practically an tne advertise
ments come from the master class."
WAS LOOKING FOR MEXICAN
TO KILL AND FOUND ONE
Magdalena, N. M., Nov. 18. With
the remark, "I am looking for a Mex
ican to kill," Tom O'Neil, a cook liv
g here, walked up to M. Giron, a la
borer, Friday night shortly after mid
night, and without any other warning
shot him through the heart. Giron
died instantly. So far as is known,
there had not been any previous
trouble between the two men. The
killing took place on West Main
street, between the West saloon and
the corral of the Ranch Supply com
pany, in the main business section of
the town.
UNITED STATES WILL
INSIST ON DEMANDS
RIGHT TO SEND TROOPS ACROSS
BORDER TO CHASE BANDITS
MUST BE RECOGNIZED OR ALL
NEGOTIATIONS ARE OFF
Atlantic City, N. J., Nov. 20. Louis
Cabrera and his colleagues . on the
Mexican-American joint commission,
will be formally told tomorrow by
Secretary of the Interior Lane, chair
man of the American commission, on .
what terms an agreement providing
for the withdrawal of the American
punitive expedition and the protection
of life and property along the inter
national border may be reached.
Fortified by the assurance of Pres
ident Wilson, that he will back the
American representatives in their ef
forts to reach a settlement of the
quesions at issue between Mexico and
the United States, Secretary Lane re
turned late' today. He immediately
went into conference with Dr. J. E.
Mott and Judge George Gray, the oth
er American commissioners, informing
them in detail of the conference he had
had at Washington Saturday with the
president. The formal meeting with
the Mexicans will take place tomor
row. The atmosphere of uncertainty and
even hopelessness, which has been ap
parent for many weeks was entirely
lacking tonight. The Americans ap
peared confident that the end of the
conference is in sight. Their propo
sitions have been erduced to writing
and it is understood, will admit of lit
tle debate.
Cabrera Optimistic
The Mexicans appeared not to take
a pessimistic view of the situation, Mr.
Cabrera again assuring newspaper
men that he was very hopeful of ffn
amicable adjustment There was no
evidence, however, that he was pre
pared to recede from his position so
long maintained, that agreement of
the plan of the Americans was out
of the question:
Whether Ignacio Bonillas and Al
berto J. Pani, the other members of
the commission, were prepared to
afanrl . Aft. oltnn V. A
wj mi. vnuicia IUUIU uc ue -
temined. They have besn disposed of
late to agree with, the Americans on
the plan suggested and it was the op
position of Mr. Babrara thnt prevented
a settlement. There was ?ome reason
tonight to believe tha Mr. Cabrera had
won them over to an agreement to
ttand with him.
The plan to be placed before the
Mexicans will contain nothing that is
new to them. It has been gone over
in sesions of the joint commission
t me and again and wiil not require a
'oi g explanation.
Withdrawal Not in Issue
The question at issue is not the
withdrawal of General Pershing's
troops. They will bo called back
when the American government is
convinced that it can be done without
jeopardizing .the safety of the border.
The more debatable question is the
method of controlling the border af
ter they have been taken out. The
Mexicans will not be permitted to
place restrictions on the manner in
which the American government will
protect its border, nor on the manner
in which it will punish marauding
bandits.
The Mexicans have objected seri
ously to acknowledging the right of
the international boundary in pursuit
of bandits, but have been more insis-
ent that in case troops are sent they
be moved subject to certain restric
tions. When the Mexican commis
sioners leave here it will be with the
realization that American forces will
be used to run down any raiding band
that crosses the border into the United
Slates regardless of where they may
have to go or how long they may have
to stay in Mexico.
It was rogarded here tonight as not
improbable that a delay might be
caused by the desire of the Mexicans
to communicate futher with General
Carranza. Mr. Cabrera said he and
his colleagues would report new de
velopments. If time is taken for the
Mexicans to report the new situation
to their chief and for him to reply,
it is possible nothing may be dona
until Saturday. .
L
r
