Gazette
Oregon Historical Society
iu7-E3t.
IM.
VOL. 33, NO. 35.
HEPPNEli, OREGON, THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 1916
SUBSCRIPTION, $1.50 PER YEAB
MS
LADIES' BAZAAR
W I
SUCCESS
Literary Society Will Present Pro-!
gram. j
The Ciceronian Literary Society of
the local high school will present its
first program of the school year in
' r the auditorium on November 24.
The feature ot the program will be
Catholic Ladies Did Total Business a debate, "resolved that capital puni-
of Over $2100 During Three
Days Sale in Masonic
Building.
The Baauar held last weeK under
the auspices of the CaRiolic ladies of
Heppner was an unqualified success.
Ti t: t'jrmal opening took place on
Thursday afternoon, Mr. S. E. Van
Vautor delivering the opening ad
dress. The Masonic Building in which
the Bazaar was held, was transformed,
into a veritable riot of colors. Blue
and white decorated the Apron Booth,
yellow and white the Fancy Work
Booth, pink and blue the Baby Work
Booth, purple and white the Towel
Booth, maroon and white the Parcels
Post, green and yellow the Irish
Booth, while the national colors de
corated the Country Store. From
the time the Bazaar opened until
shment should be abolished." Gar
net Barratt and Neva Hayes will up
hold the affirmative and Ruth Van
Vactor and Earl Gordon will speak
on the other side.
Following is the program which the
Ciceroniaus will present in their first
Appearance.
1. Song Girls Glee Club
2. Essay Margaret Crawford
3. Solo Edith Thorley
4. Debate. RESOLVED: That capi
tal punishment should be abolish
ed. Garnet Barratt
111
10
GROWERS
CHANGE
U
DATE OF MEETING IN THIS CITY
Affirmative:
Negative:
5. Song.
6 Reading Cecile
7. Music
Neva Hayes
Ruth Van Vactor
Earl Gordon
Boys Glee Club
Devore
mid-night of Saturday tne lames were g The Effect of tne European War
kept busy. At every booth were , upon the v s
found articles to please even the most 9 gong High Scnooi chorus.
critical. The Parcels Post did a
President W. B. Barratt of the Ore- t possibility of the near future
on Woolgrowers Association has sent joposal of the .. fot service to
jut word the past week that the date r?lse BrazinS fees will also be tak-
convention in this city lias "P and discussed. ! . ' .
. . , ... rt'The entertaining features of the
ucen changed to December 15-16. dayg conventlon have been pac.
This meeting was orgmally called for 6(j in the hands of the local commer
December 8-9, but owing to conflict- clal club.
ing dates with the Pacific Internationa j-" The secretary of the Oregon Wool
al Livestock Exposition in Portland, growers' Association has been notified
it was deemed best to hold the con-: by the Sauthern Pacific Company that
vention one week later. 'the UBual certificate plan fares will be
According to President Barratt authorized from all stations in Ore
there are a numebr of important gen including Klamath Falls and Mid-
questions that will, come up for dis- land, located on lines of the Southern
cussion ."The woolgrower is so pros-' Pacific Company. The sales dates
' Sunday School Convention Was A Big
, Success.
The Sunday School convention held
In this city last week was a big suc
cess, both from the standpoint of at
tendance and the interest taken in all
the sessions. Rev. C. A. Phipps, see
ing retary of the Oregon State Sunday
Scnooi Association was the principal
speaker during the three days ses
sion. At the conclusion of the convention
S. E. Notson of Heppner was elected
president, Chas. O'Neil of lone was
LIVESTOCK SHOW
WILL BE BIGGER
Purine International Will lie Held
in Portland on December 8-0.
(By 0. M. Plumer.)
The Pacific International Livestock
elected vice-president and Mrs. C. E. Exposition, which holds its sixth An
nual Show at the Portland Union
Stock Yards, North Portland, Decem-
aud Mrs. Fagan come highly recom- ber 4"9. has been 0116 of the big fac
mended as evangelists and the church tors in the upbuilding of the live
is looking forward to a fine meeting stock industry in this entire western
and a splendid revival.
Woodson of Hepner was re-elected
secretary and treasurer.
rushing business during the three x,oug tQ brjng the gchool up to the
days and the articles in every case rank Qf a gtandard 8chool thiB vear.
country.
Entries which have just closed in
the breeding class indicate one of the
biggest showings of beef breeds ever
handled Went of the Rocky moun
tains, there being something like fit
teen herds of Shorthorns on the list.
The Hereford people have a very se-
a large attendance of woolgrowers; pon the question of increasing graz- charming young lady to share a por- ! wt known herds in the United
from over the state and it is estimat- fog lees than any other one problem tion of the extra room. Its a snap q,!... ThB Hnktein nennle have out.
ed that 100 members of the associa-(0iat will come before the convention. or the rlght party. dVnfthemsehe Tin their entries
tion will be here for the meeting, The Department of Agriculture al- , , JV , . a"? tnemseues ln i "in
Among a number of important ready has this matter under advise- Jhn Padberg and family and while the Guennseys and Jerseys will
natters to be considered by the sheep-iment. The Idea Is to advance the 8 Padber6 and famI1y BPent b presented by the best know,
men is the question of securing roads, fees for grazing in the National For- Sunday at the home of Mr. and Mrs. breeders on the Coast Hogs and
an , I, ti, nhun i.nj j,,t. n JltM-A. n't. w.n-w B. L. Padberg in lone. John does sheep will make a fine showing, and
T. E. Peterson went up to Heppner
perous now that little or nothing is will go into effect December 12th to Friday and returned Sunday driving
troubling him" said Mr. Barratt,' J6th, inclusive and receipts to be a new Buick. A five passenger car
"and it is hard to get him to take an honored at one-third fare returning is a mighty big machine for a bache
interest in things of vital interest to- provided required number in attend- lor to be flying around in alone and
his welfare." aace, December 15 to 19, inclusive, we imagine Ture will now be able
nuwevei, local HiiBeymuii anticipate b rrouaoiy more stress win do lam to attract the attention of some
the 640 acre homestead law which Is ' February first of next year.
justified the expenditure put on
them.
The crowds were good on Thurs
day and Friday evenings but on Sat
urday evening there was not standing jacket for the gtove
room, wnen i. j. unacun iumou
ced to auction off the articles the ex
citement commenced. After Mr.
Driscoll'8 vocal organs got husky, T.
D. McMenamen of Portland got on
the auctioneer's stand. About 10 p.
m. the drawing for grand prizes took
place. The winners of the prizes
. Jl I....J t UlnA.'a . Prt Q
mat we oiHpmjrou . ..uU. Helolse Pllillip8 ,g the teacher,
window were Hugh Bran of the Firs enrollment ,g n A new Hart
National tianK, mrs. mu. hum i
Miss Vernus Young is the teacher
in District No. 26. The enrollment is
16. The flag is displayed from an ex
cellent flag-pole. There is a good
Water is kept
on the stove and window-boards and a
thermometer are provided. The wat
er supply is kept in a closed tank.
This school has two framed pictures.
A good sectional book-case is provid
ed for the books. A new encyclope
dia has been added recently,
i In Joint-District No. 50-55, Miss
The
heat
ing and ventilating plant has been
globe and other apparatus.
. . , T- C ehl,lBn auu
Kcno tour prww, . installed. This school has four stan-
John J. Keegan and Peter McNamee A of
of Condon. Miss Hannah WlUon "
very easily won me ummuuu
ruby brooch in ' the popularity
contest. Towards mid-night . when
the returns from the various booths
were closed, the contest for the dia
mond ring was very close, Miss Peg
gy O'Rourke being the fortunate win
ner of this coveted article.
The ladles realized better than $21-
nn from their sales and donations
Returns to Morrow County
ct f. Hemrick and family have re
turned to Morrow county after
spending the past year at their old
home in Sandwich 111. Mr. Hemrick
has not yet located permanently but
! will take up farming again as soon as
About $1800 represent the sales, al- jhe can find a suitable place. For the
though there are a few hundred aol-, present ne aim nut lauuiy.wm uve
lars to collect.
Following is the amount of busi
ness transacted by each booth.
Irish booth, $588.65; Fancy booth,
$91.00; Apron booth, $310.00; Can
dy booth, $222.85; Towel booth, 222.
45; Parcels Post, $72; Baby wear,
$60.0; Country Store, $122.20; a
musements, $95.00
SCHOOL NOTES.
in Heppner. Conditions in the mid
dle West do not compare with those
of the Pacific Northwest, according
to Mr. Hemrick, and especially is this
true to farming, there being a shor
tage to crop production in Illinois
this year.
(By S. E. Notson, Co. Supt.)
Special blanks will be sent to
school clerks for report of children
who are crippled, blind, deaf or dumb.
The State Superintendent desires this
information for the use of the legis
lature and also for a report to the
United States Bureau of Education.
If more blanks are needed, write to
the county superintendent.
In District No. 21, Miss Dora Jack
son is the teacher. The enrollment is
eight. This scholl has three framed
pictures, several pieces of play furni
ture, a closed water jar, and a good
flag. The pupils are enthusiastic.
Miss Daisy Barlow teaches in Dis
trict No. 36. This school Is small,
the enrollment being six. A vessel
filled with water is kept on the stove.
A number of improvement? in the
equipment are contemplated.
Mrs. Harriet M. Brown U at the
helm in District No. 31. The enroll
ment is 28. This school has a good
flag, a closed water jar, a stove sur
rounded by a good jacket, window
boards, and a "humidifier" of excell
ent type-a tall can filled with water.
This school is making an effort to
Teach the standard this year. .
In District No. 29, Mrs. Bertha
Stoneman is the teacher. The enroll
ment is seven. A new building is
contemplated. This Is needed and the
community is united in the deter
mination to erect a modern building
as soon as possible.
In District No. 37, Miss Edith Par
ker is the teacher. This school is
small, the enrollment being only six.
This school has some new black
boards, a stove surrounded by a splen
did jacket, window-boards, a ther
mometer, a closed water jar, a splen
did book-case and a new encyclopedia.
The primary pupils have a sand table
for use ln their work.
In District No. 14, Miss Adelaide
O'Hanlon Is the teacher. The enroll
ment Is ten. The windows have been
changed so as to admit the light from
the left side and the rear of the room
which gives correct lighting. A clos
ed tank Is provided for the water sup
ply. The teacher and pupils are au-
Elk's Memorial Dec. it.
Hepner Lodge of Elks No. 358
will hold their annual memorial ser
vices this year on Sunday December
3. As usual the services will be held
in the I. O. O. F. Hall, which is used
bv the Elks as their lodge room. An
outside speaker will deliver the me
mortal address, although the commit
tee in charge is not able to announce
at this time just who the speaker
will be.
Official Bullet in.
A schoolmistress asked her class to
explain the word "bachelor," and was
very much amused when a little girl
nswered, "A bachelor is a very happy
man."
"Where did you learn that?" asked
the mistress.
"Father told me," the little girl replied.
PAST MY HERE
Nathaniel Scott passed away at the
home of Mr. and Mrs. E. H. Kellogg
in this city last Tursday morning.
Mr. Scott had made a valiant fight the
past year and a half against cancer
of the throat, which finally caused
his death. The funeral was held on
Friday at Lone Rock, where he had
made his home for a long number of
years. The deceased leaves a wife
and step children to mourn his loss.
Nat Scott was a pioneer of this
NEWS OF INTEREST
E
not call around this way often, and tor the first time, the four leading
'states that it had been many months breeds of draft horses will be includ-
: since hn last visited here. He eniov- ea.
d such abundant prosperity this sum
Imer that he now feels he can get a
'little farther from home than usual.
Chas. Calkins having disposed ot
A representative of the Ellison ft
White Chautauqua Association visit
ed lone the first of the week and en
deavored to interest our business
men in backing up a Chautauqua for
this place the coming season. The
proposition met with little encourage
ment here, our citizens taking the
view that the benefits to be derived
were not in proportion to the burden
assumed in the guarantee asked. As
section of Eastern Oregon and was ; matter of fact, while the Chautau-
numbered among the early pioneers 7?av De admitted to De a nne
in Gilliam county, locating there In "lnh nd offers an opportunity U
1883. He went into the stock busi- near Bome nne talent m tne uterary
ness and done well. He was truly and musical lines,- it should not be
a leading citizen and a man of influ- necessary lor tne amerent communi
ence. Mr. Scott was a native of Ire- ties where they present their pro-
laiid but became a naturalized citizen erams to guarantee them anything,
of this country years ago. Their organization should, be self-
A large number of friends are left supporting by this time and should
by the deceased who mourn his early be handled from that standpoint,
death, he was but 69 years of age and The writer haB Dad sufficient exper
up until two years ago was the pic- ience ln "coming through" on these
ture of robust health. A good man guarantees, along with numerous oth
and a useful citizen has been called er PePIe who inaBined they were do
to his reward. ,'nS a big thing for the home town in
I getting such character of entertaln-
JAMES M, SHAW. 'ment as presented by the lyceum and
Chautauqua courses, and speaking for
James M. Shaw, a native of Scot- himself, he has had enough. And we
land, died at the farm home of Hynd fancy the others have also.
Judges of national reputation will
tie the ribbons. Men like Saunders
of Iowa on Shorthorns; Chas. L. Hill
of Wisconsin, Jerseys and Guernseys;
loscrip of Minnesota, Holsteins; Mox-
his interests here to Mr. Cook will iey 0f Kentucky, Herefords; Brunk ot
move with his family to Gresham, Oregon, hogs; with other well known
Oregon. Mrs. Calkins and the men handling the other classes,
children left for their new home yes- The Granges of Oregon, Washlng
terday. He recently took over the ton and Idaho are taking an Intense
dairy business here rrom his uncle nterest in this year's show and strong
F. T. Calkins and this business will delegations .will come from over this
now be carried forward by Mr. Cook western country,
who is a new arrival in this section, j The Governors of the Northwest
Mat Halvorsen finished threshing ?tates have pted an invitation. to
De at tne snow ou muisuay, ux-
on the North side ot the creek and
moved his machine to L. McMurrays
where he will have a run of several
days, threshing the grain from about
400 acres. With a little that Mr.
Halvorsen has left of his own this
Bros, ln Sand Hollow on Tuesday,
Nov. 21, 1916. Mr. Shaw has been
suffering for the past two years from
kidney trouble and last spring un
derwent an operation at the local hos
pital. The operation was a success
Mrs. Audrey Woolery Dye, of
Grandview, Wash., Is visiting at the
home of her sister, Mrs. A. E. John
son and her other relatives at lone.
O. E. Llndstrom was the purchas
er of a new Reo five-passenger auto
ember 7th, and their many friends
will have an opportunity to meet
them in an informal way. Afterwards
they will attend the banquet given in
honor of the breeders and feeders at
Iha Miiltnntimli TTntal
will finish the season's ruo.i i i ,... fc..j ,.i,(i.,
jVpY.r-. :. LjVrtpM . ivrtjea ; associations are
John King, formerly' a resident tt holilng tlteit' annual meetings dur-
the lone Bection, accompanied by his ing this week and Portland will be
wife, has been visiting with relatives thronged with farmers and livestock
and friends in and about lone during men.
the week. Mrs. King is a sister of! The action of the State Bankers'
the Engleman boys, Frank and Ed. , Association in appropriating $10,000
Their home is at Athena where Mr. ; for this show is attracting attention
King conducts a farm. I all over the United States and at once
G. F. Steele is Ione's new jeweler 'Ptaces them lnu very hl8n estimation
and watchmaker, who recently open-; amongst the breeding fraternity of
ed up for business in the Knappen-,1"18 "niry, ru,"""V; ' a
berg building on Main street, former- cm?Be als 1pro,yldl '? ltSf
ly occupied by Chester Titus in the V 600: h" the State f re"
same line. This is a welcome addl- fl Prov des 50.o0' . . a .
. ... v...i n The railroads have granted a rate
tion to our business section. of a fare and g mr& Qn
Charley Shaver is finishing a well ficate plalli trom all points of this
his week on the H. Stange place lWestern country. Selling dates will
ust west of lone where he is getting Degin November 30th. And last un-
at the time and probably prolonged :thls week He Dought ,t from E R,
Scotticism.
McTavlsh and Macpnrrson are a
drlft at sea In an open boat.
McTavlsh (on his knees) O Lord
I ken I've broken maist o' my com
mandments. And I've been a hard
drinker all my days. But; O Lord
if we're spared this time, I promise
never
Mcpherson I widna commit my-
sel over far, Donald. I think I see
land." Life.
his life by months. However the end
came quietly on Tuesday as stated
above.
At the time of his death, Mr. Shaw
was 72 years of age. The funeral
services were held in this city on
Wednesday aftenoon, Rev. R. H.
Levelling conducting a short service
at the grave ln Masonic cemetery.
James M. Shaw had lived in Mor
row county a long number of years,
and through his square dealing and
pleasing personality made many
friends, all of whom will be sorry to
learn of his passing away. He had
no relatives in this part of the country.
Lundell, local agent. Mr. Lundell
left for The Dalles Tuesday to bring
up another car.
W. H. Cronk, having graduated
from the "Henry" class, this week
joined the "higher nps" and now is
the pround owner of a new Chalmers.
It is certainly a handsome car.
Dr. Butler is a new arrival in lone
and has established dental parlors in
the Independent building. His fam
ily will arrive shortly from the Wil
lamette Valley.
' The Fagans will begin a series of
meetings at the Christian church in
lone on Tuesday, November 28. Mr.
Thanksgiving
BALL
THURSDAY, NOV. 30
At The FAIR PAVILION
Music by the Bungalow Orchestra of Portland
A Good Time Is Guaranteed
"THE LURE," Star Theater, Wed
nesday, November 29.
TICKETS
$1.50
2 i ...... .. .fc ...... 1 .. .... . ,i. 1. it. AAA A A . . . . .
CTTTtTTTCTTTTTTTTTTTTTt TTT TTTTTtTTTTTTTtTTTTTTwHtTT
a good flow of water in less than 100
eet. He will go from there to the
Tom Craig place In the Ella neigh
borhood. H. L. McAlister was down from
Lexington Monday. Harvey says he
las his application ln to go to the
Mexican border if needed, and it
ooks somewhat like he might re
ceive a call.
J. E. Cronan this week purchased
he J. A. Waters residence property
n lone. F. E. Cronan and wife will
occupy the residence.
John Vaughn was down form Hepp
ler Monday and Tuesday afternoons
lemonstrating the Hudson and Chal-
ners cars. He reports the sale of 9
Chalmers the past ten days, with nu
merous other prospects on the list.
Nels Johnson and Leonard Anderson
ame in from Gooseberry Friday eve
ling In Mr. Johnson's new Reo. He
setting around to the last of his
threshing and by the end of the week
expects to be through.
The bazaar given by the ladies Uni
on Aid Society on Saturday was a de
cided success and nearly all the ar
ticles prepared for the sale were dis
posed of. The sales netted the ladies
$83.00
Some fine "goose" weather this,
and our nimrods have been making
trips to the hunting grounds out to
ward the breaks of the Columbia to
gather in some of the big birds.
Mrs. Chas. Sperry returned home
the first of the week from a visit of
two months with relatives and friends
at Brownsville and other Willamette
Valley points.
A bunch of C. A. Minor's cattle
were taken through lone Tuesday on
the way to the Cecil ranch where they
will be finished for market on alfalfa
hay.
J. A. Harbke returned to his Port
land home Saturday after having
spent the most of the summer here
looking after his land interests.
Mearle Blake left for Portland yes
terday to be absent a short time. He
will take ln the big foot ball game on
the O. A. C. campus next week.
til December 6th, good returning un
til December 12th.
One of the big features of the
show this year will be the fat clas
ses in the Stock Yards proper. Each
year has demonstrated the fact
that the West can produce some of
finest cattle, hogs and sheep ln the
country. Competition will be keen
this year.
In order to house the show, the
entire barn and pen room of the Uni
on Stock yards, together with eight
mammoth tents will be required. The
main tent is 100x200 ft. while the
others are 50x200 ft. This is hous-
ng the show in a similar way to the
practice of the Scotch and English
shows, which have flourished for
many generations.
A very important feature in con
nection with the show will be the an
nual sales of breeding stock. On
Tuesday morning, December 6th,
there will be an offering of Guernsey
cattle from Edgemoor Farm, Santee,
California and the same afternoon
there will be a combination hog sale;
Wednesday the entire day will be us
ed for hogs, cattle and sheep; Thurs
day afternoon the ramous Shorthorn
sale of Minor, Dunn, Brown and oth
ers; Friday all day Holsteins, un
der the direction of Colonel Cue.
The Pacific International is absol
utely free to the people. It is strict
ly educational, with no "Wl'ul Wot"
or other distract-concession. The
people who attend this show will see
livestock alone. And in no better
way can they advance the livestock in
dustry of this country than by their
presence and active interest in the
show.
Over $14,00 Spent By Normal Com
mittee.
The statement of expenses field
with the Secretary of State shows that
the Pendleton Normal school com
mittee made an outlay of $14,362.56
in the campaign for the establishment
of a State Normal school in Pendle
ton. The statement of S. A. Barnes
shows expenditures of $707.71 made
in the effort of Weston citizens to de
teat the measure.-Pendleton Tribune.
