V
fl XiflHS : t yt
FULL LEASED
WIRE DISPATCHES
9& $
CIRCULATION IS '
OVER 4000 DAILY
ijc sjc s)t sc sjt ifc 5jte )Jt jfc sfc JC j)t 3
THIRTY-NINTH YEAR-NO. 252
SALEM, OREGON, THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 1916
Dmrt irnrn cwwra on trains and news
M. iwuU All WAJXl BTANDSirVH ITRNM
SAY RUMANIAN ARMY IS
PENNED UP NEAR DANUBE
London Hopeful That Pressure From Monastir May Halt
Falkenhayn by Compelling Him to Send Reinforcements
There Rumanian Resistance Gets Stronger But Are Still
In Jaws of German ViseLittle Fighting Qt:l$ Balkans
London, Nov. 23.The Rumanian official stateme.
issued today after two days
face of sweeping German claims)f "bottling up" of the
Rumanian army, served to increase the hope here that the
forces of the Balkan kingdom in the Jiul valley at least
has ducked from under the encircling arm of General Von
Falkenhayn's troops.
The Rumanian statement did not concede loss to the
Germans of Craiova, but it did announce a retirement
westward from the Wallachian city. Of more interest
here was the statement that the Rumanian forces had
withdrawn from the Jiul valley to "old positions." The
Jiul valley forces were among those at which Von Falken
hayn's encircling sweep was most directly aimed. If they
have escaped, as indicated in the . Rumanian statement,
they may be able to create a sufficiently strong diversion
to relieve the vise-like pressure of the Teutonic crusher
on their Rumanian forces around Orsova.
A stiffening of the Rumanian resistance was also seen
in the statement's report that the lines in the Alt valley
had been maintained.
The retirement westward from Craiova, mentioned in
the statement, would appear to mean that these forces
are swinging to the aid of Orsova defenders.
Serbians Presa Forward. ' held by the Germans and also on Cer-
London, Nov. 83. Bucharest hag not destroyers anchored alongside the
spoken . since JSuuday concerning the
erman cluiins ot entire success or ui
Teutou enveloping movement in Walla
hia. This silence created considerable
uneasiness here today as to. what bad
become of the Kumanian army which
Herman statements the only ones ob
tainable so far have asserted is penued
up in thut section of Rumania south of
the Danube from the line across be
tween Orsova and Craiova.
Military experts pointed -out today
that the logical section from which
troops would be drawn in reinforcement
of the retreating German-Bulgarian
army north of Monastir would be from
UCnernl Von Fulkeuhayn's Austro-Hun-gtirinu-tiermaii
forces responsible for
the sweep into Rumania. For this rea
son they were gratified with the con
tinued northward progress reported
achieved by General Serrnil's allied
forces now operating out of tho newly
csiptured Monastir.
Berlin statements have acknowledged
reinforcement of the nriny opposing this
advance. But if the Serbian-French-Russian-Italian
drive continues with as
much success, experts here look for
further and greater withdrawals of Oer
nian troops diverted to the German-Built
aria n troops' aid, probably from Von
l alkenhnyn's forces. Any considerable
diversion of his forces would certainly
weaken his offensive, possibly in suf
ficient measure to permit of a success
ful stand by the Rumanians and escape
front the jnws of the Germnn vise.
The Herbs have now reached a poiut
5 miles east of Monastir.
Successful Air Bald.
London, iov. a.j. A successful ni
raid against German hydroplanes an
naval forces at .eebrugge was an
nounced in an admiralty statement to
day. Yesterday. it was declared nnvnl
aeroplanes dropped bombs over the sea-
plane sheds at the Belgian port, now!
i iii i I
Th' girl who carps more about her '
looks than she does about frjin' a egg1
jest right, had better nbaudon all no-:
tiyn o ninrrym while ther's yit tim-.
Fo Ter us I have been nble t' learn, s
shoe store is th' oulv institution in th'
world that exxeets one clerk t' wait on '
a tioieo customers nt once. i
f - '
41 -V
v4
silence at Bucharest, in the
mole.
A1 destrover wn hit nnd tho sheds
damaged by the bombs." "
His Twenty-second Bird.
Taris, Nov. 23 Lieutenant Guynem-.
er brought down his twenty-second Ger
man aeroplane. in an. aerial action re
ported in today's official statement.
The night was calm along tho entire
front, the statement said.
They Detlred.
Bucharest, Nov. 23. "We retired
westward from Craiova," today' of
ficial Rumanian war .office statement
announced.
Retirement from points in the Jiul
valley to old positions was also stated.
In the Alt valley the statement declar
ed that Rumanian troops wero main
taining their positions.
Charleg the Eighth.
Rome, Nov. 23. The new emperor
of Austria will tuke the name Charles
VIII, according to advices from Austria
receiced nt Berne and wirelessed here
today.
Some Artillery Practice.
London, Nov. 23. General Sir Doug
las Bui? reported German artillery fir
lug during the night on both sides of
the Ancre nnd also in the neighborhood
of ITcbutcrne, in today's statement.
Take Charge of Station.
Taris, Nov. 23. French marines to
day took charge of the Peloponnesus
railway station.
j, IHahee Club House
Mow teems Assured
The Illahee Country club house will
900n be
a reality as the committee in
charge, T. A. Livesley, Homer Smith
Clinuncey Bishop report the n!c of
stock memberships amounting to $3,475
as the result of a few days canvas
among those interested.
It is, probable that within a short
time $!),000 will be secured from mem
bership and 'from this amount a club
house will soon be constructed ou the
golf links near Finzcr. T. A. Livesley
& Co. at their own expense are build
ing a road from Livesley station to the
grounds nt the fifth green.
Plans for tlio club house have already
been drawn by George M. Post and the
logs have already been peeled and haul
ed, to the site- The bouse will be en
tirely rustic in design and the plans
provide for a general large reception
and dancing room, a kitchen and lock
ers for members.
The following have each subscribed
for 4100 worth of stock:
A. N. Bush, Asa hoi Bush, T. B. Kay,
Charles H. Fisher, Theo. Roth. Thomas
A. Roberts, H. M. Hawkins, F W. Steus
loff, W. W. Moore, Homer H. Smith,
Clifford W. Brown. H. H. Olinger, J. R
I.iuu.J'aul B. Wullnce. George F. Rodg
ers, Curtis B. Cross, F. G. Deckabach,
John H. McNnry. Charles L- McXorv,
P. K. Fiillcrtnn P TV Thiplum. f. i.
Shii.lev. .T. W. Harrison. Hal I). Pntton.
John J. Roberts,- D. W. Evre. T. A.
Livesley, H. E. Clav, W. H. Burgbard,
a. v. msnop.
Those subscribing for s50 worth of
stock sre: William S. Walton. Harry L.
Benson, A.'J. Ratio, 6. C. Locke, S. II.
Koser and s. u. Sargent
Says It Was Miracle , ;
and Due to Prayer
Ia Angeles Cal., Nov. 2.1. In an
interview today John K. Milhollaud,
politician 'and business man of New
Voxk and London, declared the recent
improvement in the condition of his
daughter, Inez. Milhollnud lioissevnin,
suffrage leader, who is critically ill
here, was nothing short of a niiracte.
Milhollaud declared his daughter was
saved from death by an act of Provi
dence as a result of prayer.
Physicians who gnve tip nil hope of
saving the noted suffrnge worker some
duys ago Admitted today that Mrs.
Boissevain now has a fair chance to
recover.
BETTING IS EVEN ON .
HARVARD AND YALE
Both Teams In Shape for
Great BattleArmy and .
Navy Are Ready
By H. C. Hamilton.
(United Press stuff correspondent.)
New York, Nov. 23. Captain Cupid
Bluck has returned to tho Ynle eleven
nnd today will get into the last big
practice before the meeting Saturday in
New Haven with Harvard. Quarterback
Trnvers Smith also is back for duty and
will work out with tho first string
squad.
These two developments have had the
effect of holding off 10 to nine and 10
to eight bets that have been made with
Harvard onethe long end nnd it now
seems that Yale will go into the game
en even money choice. There is very
little Harvard money to be found at
odds which are being quoted.
The Harvard team went through its
last practice yesterday in Cambridge
nnd today will reoch New Haven; where
the meu will be given a brief drill in
the bowl nnd then will be taken to New
London where they will stay until Saturday.-
Army nnd Navy also hnve gone
through the final preparations for their
big conflict. Today only the most sim
ple of signal drills will be: given the
men. .
The Navy bnekfield will ' tuke the
field much as it has lined up all season,
with Perry, Roberta, Ingram and Wei
chell ready for duty. '
West Point isn't, so sure of itself.
Lieutenant Daly has tried several back
field combinations and was atill experi
menting today. It is as certain.-as a
thing can be, however, that Oliphant
( Continued ma page nine.) '
Jack London, Sailor, Miner
and A utho r, Crosses Divide
.Santa llosn, Cal., Nov. 23 Without
ceremony of any kind the body of Jack
London, uovelist and adventurer, will
be cremated at noon tomorrow at the
Oakland crematory.
No ministerd or Driest will pronounce
a benediction, no prayer will be said, him unconscious in bed at his Glen
no choir will sing a requiem. Ellen estate ucur here. Physicians were
Believing that death ends all and that summoned who declared the author was
there is no hereafter, London often said ; suffering from a touch of ptomaine
that when he died he wished to be ere-! poisoning or acute indigestion. London
mated and buried without ostentation. ! 'ns roused with difficulty but recov
His wishes will be carried out. Onlv!ered consciousness before noon nnd
.his wife, daughters and sisters will no-
company the body to the crematory, tils " u,".v leuipurary mrengiu
mother, Mrs. Flora London, is serious- however, and London soon lost con
lv ill in her Oakland homo nnd has not , "eiuusiiess again, never reviving before
yet been informed of her sou 's death. J""1 which occurred at , :4o last night
London's secretary today estimated Attending physicians say. he died from
that the novelist's income from his," Ka8''o-iiitestinnl O'pe of uraemia,
writings at tho time of his death over-:. when London retired Tuesday night
uged about 20 cents a word. He habit- eomplniiied of a pain in his stoin
nally wrote 1,000 words a day and this ; atl' but thought it no more .than indi
would make his annual income about :B 'on' . ... .
S 1KIO n v-nr from nnw lit.-mrv wnrlc : A Life Of AdTentUre
1 1 1 it ft t
far as the secretary knows, the
finished work by London which
So
only
has not been published ure two ful)
, . i.i -
. .. ... -s .
ernl Hawaiian stories- Arrangements
tor publication ot these have been con-
eluded. At the time of his death Lou-
loon was woraing o i a novo, or riawa- graduated from a grammar school
,11811 life called " Cherry," which was ! t thc of ,, imlm.dia,,.y en.
jwell advanced. It is understood that t,ired on Iif of ,vild adventure. Sue
iMra. London either will complete the , ,Pa!,jvclv he became a salmon fisher-
novel herself or will engage omo other. mai, an 0V1)U.r ,,irate and i01ixah0re.
(writer to complete it. How much other !Inau j tnen shipped betorc the roust.
; unfinished work London had started is The seven seas he sailed for tow years,
'not known. I Returning to San Francisco he now
The novelist's five year contract with j began a scries of laud adventures
eastern publishers would have expired j trumping the whole country over as a
.next year. Recently a representative! vagabond and "hobo." Manv times tie
I of an eastern company was at (lien El-! was juiled as a "vag" butie saw all
'leo to induce Loudon to renew his coii-0f the United Htittes and Cnunda nntt
tract ana J.ourton Had purchased rail-
road tickets and arranged to leave Han:
rruncisco next Wednesday lor .New
x orK to discuss the matter of a con
tract. He expected to return to (Hen Kl
len in February when he b'jied to be
nble to visit either Japnn or Norway
he was undecided which.
Funeral Win Be Private
Santa Kosa, Cal., Nov. Comply -
ing with a recently expressed wish of
the dead author, the body of Jack Iajii- j Alaskan trails. Then came "The Call
don. novelist and adventurer, who diedof the Wild" and Jnck Iondon leaped
at bis Glen Dllcu home last night w.iliinto literary fame at a bound. He hud
be buried privately Friday. Few of ttie
literary folk, whose friendship bo pos
sessed and who loved his writings ana
London himself, will bo in attendance.
HUGHES
CONCEDES
I
BEEtl RE-ELECTED
Sends Congratulations to Wil
son and Election Ameni-:
; ties Are Oyer
WILSON INTIMATES HE
WANTS CABINET TO STAY
Hughes To Take Up Law
Practice Fairbanks Con
gratulates Marshall
Washington, Nov. 3. President Wil
son today sent the following reply to
the message of Charles K. Hughes' con
gratulating the president on his re-election:
"Charles E- Hughes,
"Lnurcl-In-The-Pincs, Lnkewood,
N. J.:
"I am sincerely obliged 1o you for
your message of congratulation. Allow
mc to assure you of my good wishes for
the years to come.
(Signed) " WOODROW WILSON. "
With the customary post-election
amenities disposed of between the two
candidates, a search into tho telegrams
of congratulation received by President
Wilson during the last two weeks re
vealed aome interesting facts.
To each of the cabinet members who
wired congratulations to the president,
ho included in his reply the following
significant paragraph: "One of the
best things about the result is that it
means four more years of active associa
tion in public service, and in that I
genuinely rejoice."
This. is taken to indicate the presi
dent has no dlspositittri. to change the
personnel of his present advisory coun
cil. Cabinet members were - particularly
strong In their congratulatory language.
Fairbanks to Marshall. -
Indianapolis, Ind-, Nov. 23. Charles
W. Fairbanks, republican nomine for
vice-president, today sent a telegram of
congratulations to Vice-President Thom
as R. Marshall on liis-re'election.
(Continued on page fonr.)
According to present plans the funeral
will be private and burial will be in
Oakland.
London's death was sudden. Wednes
day morning when his Japanese valet
went to waken his master he fouud
j ,nn appeared to be recovering rapidly.
"J"1-''' London, who wrote so many
,ul"8 d"'"',r' "'nuclf had a lire
I " r' "'.f ''Vi..0? ,n ' " !
heroes. Born in Sun Francisco 40 years
i i.. .... - 1... i .i...
iiku, un n limn tiu luttiuru tutr sorrin
, f lt j,of 9evpral years, up 10
the of- 1(J ,iV(11 on 'nJ n
, IllovpJ , 0nkIanJ wlll.re w
UoI1' waa pdu,at(.a in the pul)li. st.llools.
even roamed about England. In 1S!7 he
entered Oaklund high school but qu:i
bv request," he said, and scenting
new adventures in the recently discov
ered Klondike went there. His year of
lite in the Arctic crystallized his lit
erary ideas and furnished the impetus
thut made his success as a writer sure.
He had written hull' a dozen books be
fore thut but nuno had attracted nt
j tcntion. Returning from the Arctic he
. began to pen a series of tales of the
found himself and from that time for
ward he advanced rapidly. He wrote
- (Continued on page sev n.)
PRE DEN
I
LESS SUSPICION
AND MORE CREDIT
"Railroad Facilities Must
Grow If Commerce of
Country Is To Grow"
ROADS MUST REACH INTO
NEW PRODUCTIVE AREAS
"Attorneys Trying to kgree
On Case In Which To Test
Adamson Law"
Washington, Nov. 23. An increase of
the nation's transportation facilities
would help shatter the high cost of liv
ing, A- P. Thorn, counsel for the rail
roads, told the Newlnnds congressional
railroad investigating committee today.
Appearing as first witness before the
body which plnns an extensive injuiry
into the relations between the railroads
and the public, Tnoni argued that the
railroads now are under a burden which
prevents successful marketing of their
securities and a consequent lack of de
velopment. As for the high cost of living, ho de
clared :
"There has been less than 1,000 miles
of new railroad constructed in the Uni
ted Htutcs during the past year. This
is less than any year since 1H4S except
the period of the Civil war and yet the
cost of living is greatly advancing,
owing to a shortage of supplies. This
might be remedied by securing access to
new areas of production. Ruilroad fa
cilities must grow if the commerce of
the country is to grow and all men or
'1" Ca -
Ntnnt influx of new monev.
Kaiiroad regulations, he continued, is
the result of a spirit of anger that grew
out of real or fancied abuses in the post.
Thorn contended that the time has come
"for the proper element of hely fulness
to be introduced into the system."
Railroad regulation is a permanent
part of the government bo said, and the
railroads realize that their first duty is
to the public.
Adequacy of railroad facilities Is a
primary public consideration, he de
clared, pointing to the readiness of ship
pers last summer to pay "almost any
thing' : 'to market their goods when a
railroad strike threatened.
. . Case Is Not Typical.
Washington, Nov. 23. Pleas for more
adequate railroad facilities, less sus
picion of railroad management and bet
ter credit conditions were made by the
railroads today to tho Newlands rail
roads investigating committee.
A. P. Thorn, counsel for the railroads,
was stated to bespeak a broader and
more helpful attitude to tho rail lines,
so they may spread out, inceruse Amer
ica's business and better serve the pub
lic. Whilo the inquiry into the rela
tions between transportation and the
public proceeded, the justice depart
ment and railroad attorneys tried . to
reach an agreement on what case to
take as a test of the constitutionality of
the Adamson eight hour law,
The M. O. and (1. case yesterday,
calling the law unconstitutional was
held not to be sufficiently typical,
hence the Union Pacific and Sauia Fc
slated for hearing at Kansns City today
may bo used.
Held in Abeyance.
Kansas City, Kas., Nov. 2.t. Thc San
ta Fa's injunction suit ngniust the Ad
amson eight hour law, set for hearing
today before Judgo John C. Pollock in
the United States district court here,
was postponed indefinitely pending a re
sult of a conference between railroad
officials and government representa
tives. Waller D. Hines, Now York, general
counsel for the Santa Fe, and Gardiner,
Luthrop, Chicago, general solicitor, ar
rived this morning and imomdintcly
went into eonfereuce with Frank Hager
maU, special counsel retained by the
government. They will decide whether
to proceed with the Santa Fo injunction
case and will decide which of the im
pending suits will bo used if another
test case is necessary. The conference
of nttorneys will not be over until late:
this afternoon, which means that the
Santa Fe's test case will not bo taken
un in the Kansas City, Kansas, federal
court until tomorrow, attorneys said.
Shortly before noon Hngermnn told
Judge Pollock thc conference wnsjunk
ing progress and out of it, he believed,
would come the best way to handle the
suit.
The most powerful of the Santa Fe's
attorneys ore here seeking to attack the
validity of the Adnmson luw. Several
hundred labor leaders, railroad nfficiuls,
government representatives and wit
nesses were in the room when court con
vened. IT COST (11,314
Tortland, Ore., Nov. 23. It cost 11,
.114 to make Oregon "bone dry.'.'.oc
rnrtlini7 tn Anti-Sulfion I.eairuc 'm rcoort
today. Fifty thousand letters were mail -
led as part of the campaign.
RAILROADS
WAN
Talk of Embargo
Makes Wheat Drop
Chicago, Nov. 23. Liberal selling,
following tnlk of embargoes, caused a
decline in wlient todny alter a nign
opening, due to good commission house
buving. December was down below to
day's opening 2 1-8 at $1.62 I S; May
down 1 3-8 at 1.SS 1-S and July down
1 3-4 at $1.57 3-4.
Corn opened higher on a rush to buy".
out tell ott in tne reaction that fol
lowed. December was down 1 1-8; May
down 1 at 9ti and Julv down 1 3-8
at 96 1-8.
Oats were 'stTghtly lower. December
was down naif at OS 3-8 and .May down
5-8 at 61.
Provisions were steady.
OFFICER THINKS HE
Man Believed To Be Long
Sought Jean Crones Ar
rested in Omaha
Chicago Nov. 23. A man believed
to be Jean Crones, whom the police are
hunting in connection with the poison
soup incident at the University club
here Beveral months ago, was arrested
in Spaulding, Neb., today.
Crones, employed as a cook at tho
University club, is said to have poison
ed the soup at -a banquet at which
Archbishop Mundelein was the speaker
Scores were made ill but no one died.
Feels Sure of His Man '
Omaha, Neb., Nov. 23. Marshal Wil
liam Rums of Spaulding, Neb;, who
identified a susiwct as Jean Crones,
todny was so sure he had the right man
that ha was afraid to keep the prisoner
in the city jail, and took him to the
ciunty seat at Bartlett.
Burns identified the man from a
photograph while the suspect was play
ing pool last night.
The man under arrest is five feet
eight Inches tall 30 years old, has
.weU drtesed'and Z a SS" 5
He is said to have come to Upaulding
yesterday morning.
WALL STREET TO HAVE
GREATCHRISTMAS
Year Has Broken All Records
; With Two Months of
Million Share Days
New York, Nov. 23 Two full months
during which stock exchange trading
has averaged uljove a million shares a
day. $129 steel common, twenty one
cent cotton in the greatest market the
cotton exchange has known since the
Daniel Sully pool operations and rec
ord trading on the curb insure Waii
Street tho most prosperous Christmas
(ho present generation on the street
has ever known.
Not since the trout forming days of
1H01 has money flown so freely into
what has become the speculative cen
ter of the world. In volume of business
nnd in easy to spend millions pouring
into the pock els of brokers nnd spec
ulators the present movement far ex
ceeds the more spectacular "war
bride" market of lltl.'i.
Employes of the financial district
are today looking forward to thc most
liberal Christmas bonus checks in
years, whilo brokers and speculator
alike are again sealing deals with
champagne and adding to the gaiety of
the night life of the town.
Seven of the 2S two million share
days of Wall Street history were in
the present year, as each broker ge:s
about twelve dollars a hundred shurcs
commission on sales and part of this
pnsses on to lite telegraph operators,
clerks and other employes at Christ
mas time, the holiday spirit is on in
full force already.
Ikind houses todny reported the heav
iest period of investment buying known
in years, bond sales being so heavy
that insinuation of a separate finan
cial ticker to report such sales is be
ing considered. Outside the big ex
chane on the ltroad Street curb and on
the flood of Hie Consolidated Kxchtinge
where stocks arc dealt in in . small
small blocks, the same story of frcn
zicd activity is tout.
There have been days recently when
trading on the curb exceeded thut o:i
the big board.
HORSE BOLD FOB $20,000
New York, Nov. 2.'!. Guy Axworthy,
sire of Lee Axworthy, brought $20,000
when he was sold to Harry Hnrkness of
the auction of the late Jack Rupert's
stock farm. Tho horse, now 14 years old,
will be taken to Walnut Hnll farm, Ken
tucky. Ouv Axworthy cost hi late own
er oiily 2,000.
PRESIDENT FOR ASSOCIATION
Portland, Ore., Nov. 211. Judge Sam
uel White is president of the Oregon
Bur association today,, having been
elected at a strenuous meeting which
1 marxeii mo closing oi inc association
I meeting.
BORDER PATROL IS
STUMBLING
BLOCK
FOR COMMISSION
Americans Want Both Patrol
Annies Commanded by
Americans
MEXICANS OBJECT AS
IT HURTS THEIR PRIDE
Mexican Commissioners Re
fuse to Discuss Internal
Affairs
Atlantic City, N. J., Nyv. 23. Tho
Mexican-American border question be
ing worked out by the joint commis
sion of the two countries here today re
solved itself into a question of reason
and pride American reason and Mexi
can pride. Kuch side is adhering stub
bornly to Its guns, but neither feels tho
situation is hopeless.
Willingness of the United States to.
withdraw its troops as soon as proiter
safeguards for thc future safety of tho
border have been made, has resulted in
centering all discussion for the present
on the form of border patrol shall take.
An agreement has been reached qp to a
certuin poiut. Mexican members of tho
commission want a mutual agreement
wnereDy troops ot the Mexican govern
ment uiny pursue bandits back into tho
United States it any croBs into Mexico
from this side, just as they will agrea
to allow the pursuit of Mexican ma
rauders across the line' and Into Mex
ico by United States troops.
j This plan, it was learned only to
day, n as Deea agreed to by the Amer
ican commissioners providing the patrol
on both Aides of the border -is narier
control of an American general.
Ihls is where Mexlcait pride has en-,
tered . Into the controversy. Mexican
troops,, the Carranza representatives
say, , may be commanded only by Mex
ican' generals. ....
Mexicans Must Yield. :.
American members of the commission
have argued that manifestly the tinly
sort of a border patrol that will work
nnd the only sort that will justify the
United States in withdrawing its too"
is one under a single directing hed.
Recause of disorganized conditions in
Mexico, they say, obviously this leader
must be an American.
The Mexican commissioner iasist
that separate organizations under sep
arate heads can handle the situation,
but that in any event, Mexican sover
eignty, involved in the complete con
trol of the country's troops, cannot bs
sacrificed to present expediency.
There is no present disposition on the
part of the Mexicans to yield the point
and certainly there is none by the Am
ericans to accept an arrangement which
they consider less than practical. As for
the other issues, involving Mexican in
ternal policies, mining taxes and tka
like, Mexican commissioners are not dis
cussing these with the American com
missioners. The latter have brought ur
the subject nt times, but the Mexicans)
have only listened. On the other hand,
Mexicans have felt free to discuss tho
subjects with American mining intermit
frid others involved indirectly and havo
communicated back and forth with (ten
eral Carrnnzn ou various question
rnised between themselves and Ameri-
can private interests. They hold them
selves eompeteut to determine such,
rights thmsclves and insist on the light
to do so.
BLIND MAN TEACHES AT U- O.
1'niversity of Oregon, Kugene, Nov.
22. Although without sight, Leslie
Blades, is conducting three classes in
F.nglish at the University of Oregnn.
Mr. Hindi's was graduated last June,
and is taking post-grndunte work. H
is considered nn unusually good stu
dent. His teaching opportunity eamn
when W. F. O. Thacher, professor of
Knglixh, fell ill of pneumonia, and
substitute had to be found for part ot
his work. The head of the depart
ment chose Mr. Blades, who contin
ues to handlo the classes during Mr.
Timelier 's convalescence.
Mr. Blades uses raised letter for
his class notes. His homo is in San
Dimus, Cal.
THE WEATHER :
Oregon: To
night nnd Friday
fair, colder ex
cept near thy
coast; ruodciute
cold wave east
portion; easterly
winds. , j
.9
