- x "
I - n If If WEATHE*.
;,L,si^i. mW ^lmrimi sTctf
SECTION ^6^ ' I'^7** ' ' ^VV^V' Fun report on p?. *
~v rwi -No. 20.311. ~~ WASHINGTON, D. C., SUNDAY MORNING, MAY 7, 1916* ( FIVE CENTS.
BELIEF STRONGER
BREAK ISAVERTED
Official Copy of Note Is Being
QtnHioH P.arefullv bv
wiuuivw wm> ?
President.
OPINION IS DIVIDED ON
v NECESSITY FOR A REPLY
Chief Executive Understood to Be :
Displeased at Language Used
in Certain Passages.
' I
Th*? probability that a diplomatic
break with Germany has been averted,
at least temporarily, was strengthened
yesterday when the official text of the
German note, laid before President
Wilson and Secretary Lansing, was
found to be almost identical with the
unofficial version sent to the United
States in press dispatches. ?
officials had indicated that should {
the official text bear out the unofficial
version they thought it improbable
diplomatic relations would have to be I
"VftraH unless there should be further |
attacks upon merchant ships in vio- I
lation of the new pledges given.
Disappointment has been indicated,
however, over certain features of the
German reply, and some high officials
believe that it at least cannot be ac-^
cepted unconditionally. The President
and Secretary Lansing studied the text
carefully yesterday, going very minutely
over the phraseology and the shades
??f meaning that might be attached to
various expressions.
Opinion Divided on Reply.
'pinion as to whether the note requires
an answer seems divided. Decision
rests with the President, and
until he has made up his mind it is
unlikely that an official expression of
opinion will be forthcoming. So far
he has not indicated to any one his
final judgment in the matter.
It Is entirely possible that no reply
will be sent, for the present at least. |
and that the President will maintain
complete silence for a time, allowing
Germany to demonstrate on her own J
behalf the good faith of her intention
to carry out the policy indicated in her
new orders to submarine commanders.
Although the President realizes that
the promises given are the cardinal elements
of the note, he is understood to
be displeased over the language used
and the conditions apparently attached.
Should the note be accepted as satisfactory
and a reply sent, it is expected
to take the form of a notification to
Germany that the United States has
decided not to sever diplomatic rela- i
tions as long as the new submarine
orders remain effective and are observed.
Secretary Lansing Leaves City.
Several members of the cabinet were
not in Washington yesterday. Secretary
Lansing left last night to spend
the week end at Annapolie. taking with
him an official copy of the German note.
He expects to have fully digested its
statements by the time of his return
tomorrow.
The only intimation regarding the
personal attitude of President Wilson
was obtained yesterday from persons
lose to affairs of the White House,
who described him as feeling himself
in a position where he could not question
Germany's good faith unless the
declarations made by the German government
should not prove effective.
Count von Bernstarff, the German
ambassador, returned to Washington
yesterday from New York. He said he
had no instructions from his government
to discuss the situation with Secretary
Lansing, and that he did not intend
to go to the State Department unless
he should be so instructed by Berlin
or Secretary I^ansing should invite
him to call. Officials would not be surprised,
however, if the ambassador
should bo instructed to call upon Secretary
Lansing next week after he and
President Wilson have had sufficient
time in which to reach conclusions.
Copies In Two Languages.
The official text of the German rote J
wp.s made public yesterday by the i
tate Department. Ambassador Gerard, i
in transmitting the document, said he]
had received ooples In both German and j
English, probably accounting for the;
fact that the official and the unofficial I
veralons are so nearly identical.
A alight difference in the text occurs in i
that paragraph where the unofficial ver-!
Job says that Germany "has decided to
make further a concession adapting the
methods of submarine warfare to the Interests
of neutrals." In the official text
the words "In adopting" appear in place
of the word "adapting" Another difference
has to do with an omission, probably
duo to an error in cable transmission.
The words !n the unofficial version " Several
attempts made by the government
of the United States to prevail upon.'1
preceding the words, "the British government
to act accordingly, failed because
of flat refusal on the part .of the
British government." and missing from
rhe official text, the omission being indicated
The only other discrepancy Is that the
unofficial version speaks In one place of
the "incontrovertible rights" to freedom
of the seas, while the official text employs
the term "incontestible "
Herr Harden Defends
President Wilson's Course
and Lauds U. S. Policy
HEflLiN, Friday. May 5. via London.
May S. -After figuratively taking tl*e
public** breath away two weeks ago by
a during article captioned. "If I Were
Yt jIhv>i>." Maximilian Har den today ret*.
r.s t?# an exhaustive defense of I'resl?.'
? Wilson, his policy and the entire
\ ~i'.' mi standpoint.
Jr? a 'vadT in the Zukunft, entitled.
ifi? !:?ui Wti. r n." Herr Harden
p ; l'r f-s.denl Wilsoi* m* "a man of
ni^f n.oti'l ana high .-pijitua! bar.
?>f whom \ e might i>?* proud if iie
\\e|c Ot?i's. Wiia1 in-* writer ?*haiH'
l* . / S :-S "la/: ijTROrCtRce" in repi
-*rn??i a > "shnttfi ini' f on: the mantle
??' wocld-be patriotism, wni'-h in realty
i.*> rto'ijii c. >i' ? toniiio:i / uh K?-nuire
em when President WTlaon is
? a - he frequently has been.
"N.nciy-nino one-hundredihs of ali
t::e xo'-alb.d war liieraiure." Herr
Hudei: continues, "should he sent
v. V"*. it bclong.s--to tr.e paper mills?
; i the public should return to hooks
> n which a wideawake spirit, speaks,
mcloding Presideni Wilson's Tho New
i' eadom.' Then, perhaps, pure comnoil
sense will return to you and
ewaUen you to the duty of respecting
the dignity of foreign peoples."
, Herf Harden follows with a brief
character sketch of President YVilson
Id which h? calls the President "A
brave opponent of evil and abuses,"
and alludes to him as "actuated by a
love for his people and possessed of
the will to lead them to the heights
of his ideals after they had gotten into
the swampland."
"Germany." he adds, "should be
ashamed of people who slander him
because they have read calumny in
newspapers."
In all his controversies with Germany,
says Herr Harden, President
Wilson has acted from absolute conviction.
"Dare we measure by the
QlQ rrl n f a m* nJnr. t'<. K >. 1 tho
complaints of a great free nation led
by a man of weight and importance of
President Wilson?" asks the writer.
"If President Wilson, after a thorough
investigation, is convinced that warlike
acts of Germany have broken the
laws of humanity, it was not only his
right, but it was his duty to talk with
clearness. He owes this not only as
a duty to himself, but to us."
Turning to the position of Chancellor
von Bethmann-Hollweg in the present
controversy, Herr Harden says:
"The daring of the chancellor must
not approximate that of a submarine
commander," Herr Harden next turns
his guns on Herr von Heydebrand,
conservative leader in the reichstag.
because of his attack on America in
connection with the Sussex note; characterizing
the attack as "sorrowful
abuse, in which there is not afglimmer
of .statesmanship." In alluding to
Herr von Heydebrand's assertion that
America stood in close connection
with England before the war. Herr
Harden points out that Germany also
did so with Italy, Russia, Japan, Portugal
and England. Herr von Heydebrand's
assertion that America was at
first secretly and then openly on the
side of Germany's enemies, Herr Harden
claims not to have been proved,
and be declares that America has never
violated neutrality.
OHIO BULL MOOSE LOOK
to nriiiiinn nr ninnrn
lUKtUMUN UrrAKIltd
Uninstructed Delegation Chosen at
Convention; Garfield Declares
Boosevelt Big Factor.
COLUMBUS. Ohio. May ft.?An uninstructed
and free-handed delegation
will go from Ohio to the progressive
national convention at Chicago June
7. This was decided here today at the
progressive state convention, which did
not instruct the eight delegates at
large and the district delegates it selected.
The convention, held in the same room
in which the Ohio progressive party
was born four years ago, selected its
officers, heard the keynote speech of
James R. Garfleld of Mentor, as p^rjnamnet
chairman, elected delegates, and
then adjourned without indorsing any
candidates for office.
The convention was characterized by
an apparent desire to offer no obstacle
to a possible amalgamation at Chicago
in June of the progressives with the
republicans. ^
"Should Forget Partisanship/'
"Partisanship should be forgotten and
the needs of the country should be
looked to this fall in the election of a
President," Jfiar'V'V1 in hi*
address. "We should forget the past
for the present and future, without relinquishing
the fight for the principles
of the. party." The former member of
the cabinet stated that the country at
large is looking toward Theodore
Roosevelt as being one of the deciding
factors in the election of a
President this fall.
The eight delegates at large selected
by the convention will have a onefourth
vote each. Two delegates, with
a one-nan vote eacn, were eiectea irom
most of the twenty-two congressional
districts, but several of the larger districts
were given four delegates, each
with a one-fourth vote.
Roosevelt Indorsed in Bay State.
BOSTON, May 6.?Theodore Roosevelt
was indorsed for President and prolonged
cheering greeted every mention
of his name at the state convention of
the progressive party here today.
Prof. Albert Bushnell Hart of Harvard
University, permanent chairman,
sounded the keynote by demanding "a
vigorous foreign policy." He spoke of
"millions of words exchanged" and
"little done."
"Congress has been dragooned into
passing some preparedness laws, but
they are not sufficient." he said. "We
want not only men and ships, but also
transportation and resources. We
should build at once a. double track
from M?ine to Key West to protect
the most vulnerable section of our
country. We need armament and we
need a man that would have the courage
tc. USA it."
Three hundred and forty-seven
j delegates, including twenty-five wom|
en. were pre sen ^Delegates at large to
the national convention were elected
as follows. Albrt Bushnell Hart.
Cambridge; H. Heustls Newton, Everett;
Daniel T. Callahan, Winthrop;
Alvin G. Weeks, Fall River; Nelson B.
Clark, Beverley. Alternates at large
are; Richard Talbot. Springfield; James
S. Thompson, Worcester; Russell S.
Wood. Cambridge; Frederick Fosdick,
Fitchburg; Eugene Cox, Maiden.
SENATE REJECTS PLAN
TO BUY. SNOW COURT
I Defeats Amendment Appropriating
$600,000 for Building of
Model Dwelling*.
! By a vote of 3S to 14, the Senate yes!
terday afternoon rejected an amendment
offered to the pending good roads
. bill by Senato- Works of California
which would have appropriated $600,000
| for the purchase by the government of
i Snow Court, one.of the "slums" of the
: capital. The amendment also provided
: that the buildings in the court should
be removed and that the government
I should construct model sanitary dwell!
ings of su?-h a character as could be
rented to the poor and laboring classes
' a' a moderate rental.
I Senator Works had Introduced and
I into ulej to offer another amendment
providing $10,'000,000 for the eradication
of all the slums in the capital
:!i the same manner as that proposed
?>r Snow court. Hut after the vote on
, \ lie Snow court amendment he an!
riounced that he would not take the
? rue ?h' tiie Senate for consideration
of the second amendment. Karlier in
liie day the Senate defeated a third
amendment of Senator Works which
i would have appropriated $100,000,000.
J or as much thereof as might be neces'
sary. to purchase for the government
tne property along f'ennsy lvania avenue
between the Capitol and the Treasi
ury.
Debate on the good roads bill coni
tinued throughout the day without a
I final vote being reached. An amendj
ment offered by Senator Lee of Maryland,
proposing an investigation of th?
I best transcontinental military road
J was rejected. Senator Tnggart of Indi!
ana urged the passage of the bill In
his maiden speech in the Senate.
BRILLIANT{VENTS
OPEN HORSE SHOW
Initial Day Gives Promise of
Most Successful Series
of Performances.
I
I
QUALITY OF HORSES, SKILL
OF RIDERS CONSPICUOUS
! Absence of President Disappoints
Big Gathering?Program the
Best in Show's History.
Amid a brilliant setting, flanked by
boxes filled with lavishly gowned society
folk of the capital and a score of
eastern and southern cities, Washington
yesterday afternoon opened its annual
spring horse show at the exhibition
grounds, 18th and P streets northwest.
But one disappointment marred what
otherwise would have been the most
auspicious opening day in the history
of the association, the failure of the
President and Mrs. Wilson to attend.
Eager eyes turned often on the specially
draped box reserved for the
chief executive and his family, but
despite the official announcement that
the White House would be represented,
the seats of honor remained empty
throughout the afternoon. A battery
of camera men and a special police
guard were among those disappointed.
Producing nothing of the sensational
or spectacular, the show still was distinctively
a remarkable one in number
of entries and quality of the horses exhibited.
skill of the riders and spirit
of contest that appeared to affect riders
and horses alike.
West Triumphs in Two Big Events.
The west triumphed over the east in
two of the big harness events through
J the magnificent performances of horses
owned by John L. Bushnell of Springfield
. Ohio. As generally forecasted,
the Glen -Riddle farms of Pennsylvania
were prominent in the hunting
events, winning the massive silver
punch bowl offered by Gen. James A.
Buchanan, president of the show, for
the Corinthian class.
Judge William H. Moore of New York
city and Miss Constance Vauclain of
Philadelphia got in the ribbons, as did
Mrs. Allen Potts of Gordonsville, Va., a
favorite with Washington horse show
audiences. Her riding yesterday in saddle
and jumping events displayed the
skill which has made her famous as the
only woman master of hounds of Virginia.
Washington owners were conspicuous in
several of the numbers. Ralph Coffin did
some splendid riding in the Corinthian
and other classes, and provided the feature
of the afternoon's entertainment by
jumping his horse, "Rabbit," over an automobile
owned by Sylvanus Stokes and
occupied by Mr. Stokes and a party of
friends at the time the unusual feat took
place.
Mount Becomes Unruly.
William Corcoran, a comparatively recent
addition to the ranks of local horseowners.
got away to a flying start on
Prince William, but his mount became
unruly before the last two hurdles were
reached, insisted on backing around the
ring until several of the assistants were
forced to scamper to places of safety, and
finally eliminated himself from the contest
by abruptly taking the outer show
ring fence and making for the paddock.
For the most part the jumping was
clean and this in spite of the fact that
many of the entrants were young horses.
On account of the large number of nominations
in the hunting numbers the management
was unable to keep the program
up to the time table, and by 6 o'clock the
exhibition was one hour behind the schedule.
Night was fast approaching when
the ribbons were tied in the class for
military hunters, the next to last number.
The closing number, which was for ladies'
phaeton horses, was advanced to Monday
afternoon at 1 :45 o'clock.
The starter's bugle got the show under
way promptly at 2 o'clock, the first event,
for thoroughbred stallions, going to Knox,
owned by Harry G. Wilson.
Army Horses in Jumping- Feats.
Nine army horses, appearing In the
second number, provided the first
jumping feats, and in this class Capt.
William Mitchell of Washington, riding
Highland Chief, was returned the
j winner.
j Judge Moore drew first blood in the
! first class for harness horses by winj
nlng with Memnon and Maiden In the
! class for novice pairs, and F. T. Stotesbury
of Philadelphia, with his worldfamous
Ruby and Lasca, captured the
blue in the class for pairs of roadsters,
which followed. In the latter
contest John O. Gheen of Washington
was second, with Baron Herbert and
Bob Powers.
Then came the first triumph of the
west, when John L. Bushnell, driving
the Governor, a Kentucky horse, beat
j.Judge Moore's Mogul and Micah; Wil
Jiam A. Ldeber's Buttonwood Belle and
Buttonwood Lass, and Miss Ella F
lvers' Sealight In the heavy harnesi
division, for best horse suitable for a
gl*
Mr. Bushnell followed up this victory
a little later by driving Gypsy Maid tc
victory in the runabout class, beating
the entries of Mrs. Allen Potts, Mrs
Carz Anderson, Wiiliam P. Collins and
A. D. Addison.
Moore Entry Successful.
Probably the most Interesting content
in the harness division, however,
took place when Miss Constance Vau
clain and Judge Moore gave the judge:
a difficult task of deciding which hac
the beter pair of horses'of the heavyweight
type. Miss Vauclain drove ,Ele
gant Dilham and Lady Dilham, whicl
she purchased last year from Edwar<
B. McLean of Washington, but sav
them go down to defeat before White
wall Ariel and Raeburn, the Moor<
entry.
The f?len Riddle farms, which Is represented
by a stable of Irish steeplechasers
now racing at Pimlico, figured
most conspicuously In the hunting
numbers Besides capturing the Corinthian
prize, for which twenty-five rider*
in full hunting livery contested, ihli
stable accounted for both first and second
places in the class for pairs 01
hunters and first and third places ir
the class for middle and heavy-weight
jumpers.
Arthur White of Virginia, who Is ar
annual exhibitor at the local show
rode several new horses, and annexec
the blue and red with Oracle and Col
O'Bannon in the class for lfght-welghi
green hunters.
Sixteen Events of High Order.
Sixteen events In all were contested
J and the competition throughout wai
! of the highest order. It was the con
i sensus of opinion that the horsei
; shown were of better quality than anj
i ever exhibited in Washington, and in
(Continued on Ninth Page.) ~
i
A
RIGGS TRIAL TOMORROW
C. C. Glover, W. J. and H. H. Flather
to Answer Indictments Charging
Perjury.
Charles C. Glover, William J. Flat her
and Henry H. Flather, president, vice
president and former cashier, respec- .
tlvefy. of the Rlggs National Bank, will
be called for trial tomorrow morning hefore
Justice Slddons in Criminal Division
I to answer four indictments charging
them with perjury in connection with an
affidavit filed by them May 20, 1915, during
the hearing on an application of the
Riggs National Bank for an injunction
against John Skelton Williams, controller
of the Treasury, and William G. McAdoo,
Secretary of the Treasury. One of the
. indictments charges the financiers jointly
with the crime of perjury and the others
allege an individual act of perjury against
each of them,
j The array of counsel both for tiie pros
ecution and the defense indicates that
i the legal propositions that may arise duri
ine the trial will be contested stubbornly.
and the case bids fair to occupy the at- ]
tention of Justice Siddons for the next
two months.
May Take Time to Get Jury.
Because of the widespread publicity
given the contest between the Riggs
bank and the officials Of the administration
and the extensive acquaintance of
1 the three defendants it Is considered like- j
ly that two or three days will be con- }
sumed in obtaining jurors who have not |
formed or expressed an opinion concern- I
ing the matter or who are not acquainted
with the accused,
i United States Attorney Uaskey will be
in charge of the prosecution and will be j
aided by Assistant Attorney General Fitts !
; and Assistant United States Attorney !
Archer. The defendants will have as !
I .1 .1. Darlington. William <J. I
'I Johnson, Frank J. Hogan, George 1". I
\ J llcover and Danie! W. O'Donoghue.
i I FAMOUS PRIEST DIES.
i
: i Tolstoi's Confessor., in Exile Thirty
Years, Succumbs in California.
1 SAN FRANCISCO, May 6?On a little
I ranch near Hayward, across San Franl
cieoo bay. Father Agapius Honoharenko.
the confessor of the Poet
[ Tolstoi, lies dead today. He died alone j
after thirty years of freedom under j
the American flag
' Father Honcharenko, with his wife,
was driven from Russia thirty years
ago. A year ago the wife died, and
I since then the old Russian priest had
' been failing fast.
HOLD-UP TOO REALISTIC.
' Detective Shoots Policeman Who
"Played Part"' of Highwayman.
1 NEW YORK, May 6.?In front of the
I grandstand on 5th avenue, where 3.0001
7 spectators were watching a demonstra- J
* .lion of police methods in connection with j
5 the annual police parade today, a police [
officer who was playing the part of a |
- highwayman in a hold-up scene was shot I
j in the head by a detective who apparently j
r thought the hold-up was real. J
The supposed highwayman. L/ieut.
* Christopher Reilly. after snatching aj
! handbag from a police matron who was;
f playing the part of a shopper, had been
i pursued by patrolmen and police dogs
and surrounded. While the police were I
pretending to overpower him the detec-j
t tive rushed in and flred at Reilly. the
bullet passing through his chin and neck,
i The detective was placed under arrest
and the wounded policeman was removed
t to a hospital.
Crew of Loit Ship Landed.
LONDON, May 6.?The erew of the
J British "turner City of Lucknow. which
. j was aunk in the Mediterranean Tueaday
, Iaat, waa landed on the Island of Malta
Thursday, according to a Lloyds diepatch
from Malta under Thursday's
* date. The steamer was torpedoed without
warning, the dispatch asssrta
RADIO PHONE TO VESSEL
OFF THE VIRGINIA CAPES
Navy Department Opens Demonstration
of Communication System
Taking in All Land Stations.
Wireless telephone communication
between the Navy Department and a
warship at sea was established late
yesterday for the first time as part of
a demonstration of the possibilities of
wireless telephony. Simultaneously the
department was In touch with all of its
land stations in continental United
States and gave orders verbally to the
various commandants.
Secretary Daniels and ranking officers
of the navy assembled at the department
for the demonstration, talked
to the battleship New Hampshire, far
off the Virginia capes and heard distinctly
the replies of her commander.
Representatives of the telephone companies.
whose resources had been made
available for the occasion, told the
Secretary that communication by wireless
telephone between a land station
and a ship at sea never before had been
accomplished anywhere, and that the
United .States was the only nation that
knew how to perform such a feat.
The demonstration was opened by
Secretary Daniels, who told Capt.
Chandler, commanding the New Hampshire.
to get under way by 10 o'clock
this morning and report his position by
wireless telephone every hour until
further notice. The naval station at
Pensacola next was called, and the
commandant there was instructed to
furnish the department with a detailed
report concerning-aviation work.
Until 8 o'clock tomorrow morning all
business between the Navy Department
and the naval forces will he conducted
largely by wireless telephone.
DIE IN A SUICIDE PACT.
Young Lovers Decided That Tuberculosis
Would Prevent Marriage.
NEW ORLEANS, May 6?Clasped in
each other's arms the bodies of Helen
Fiegenschue and her fiance. Spencer
Shelby, who disappeared Sunday night,
were found in the Mississippi river here
today, victims of a suichto pact.
The couple left notes statingv both
were suffering with tuberculosis, which
would prevent their marriage, and that
they had decided to die together.
FOR THREE YEARS OF WAR.
Lloyd C. Griscom Says British People
Are Preparing for Long Conflict.
NEW YORK. May 6.?Lloyd C. Griscom,
former American ambassador to
Italy, who has been in Europe for some
time representing the Chicago meat,
packers in their claims against the
British government, arrived here today 1
on the steamship Baltic frdm Liverpool, i
Mr. Griscom said that while the think- I
ing people of Great Britain have no |
doubt aR to the outcome of the war
they look for it to continue three years
yet, and preparations are being made
toward that end.
SENTENCED FOR ASSAULT.
A. H. Summers Later Paroled by
Hyattsville Justice of the Peace.
Special Dispatch to The Star.
HYATTSVILLR, Md., May 6?Alexander
Hill Summers, charged with assault
and battery upon Miss M. Pauline
Mudd. teacher in Kast Hyattsville
School, last Wednesday afternoon, was
tonight sentenced by Justice of the
Peace Robert K. Joyo?^ to a term of
six months in the Maryland house of
correction, but paroled for one year.
Summers also was placed under a
peace bond of $1,000 for one year.
A charge of housebreaking was also
lodged against Summers by Mrs. Pauline
Mydd, mother of Miss Mudd, but
was dismissed in the granting of the
parole. The defendant was required to
pledge to abstain from intoxicating
liquors for one year and not to molest
the Mudd family.
James C. Rogers appeared for the defendant
and State's Attorney Marvtn
Peach conducted the proseoution.
%
=^====Hi
Is- ll'
/ *"
MEXICAN SHIP A PRIZE
British Cruiser Lands Passengers
and Crew at Mazatlan; Departs
With Former Transport.
MAZATLAN. Mel. May S. by radio to
San Diego, Cal.?The British cruiser
Rainbow brought the three-masted
auxiliary schooner Leonore to a position
off Mazatlan outside the threemile
limit today as a prize and. landing
the passengers and crew of the
sailing vessel, with the exception of
the' captain and purser, all of whom
were Mexicans, stood off to the westward
with her prize in tow.
According to the Leonore's passengers,
the capture was effected May
3. off Cape Corrientes. About a week
ago the Rainbow captured as a prize in
the Gulf of California the power
schooner Oregon, owned by the Crowley
Launch and Tow Boat Company of
San Francisco, and chartered to the
German firm of Lingus & Co. of M&zatj
Jan.
j The Leonore was said to belong to the
I Mexican Lloyd Company, in which Capt.
Freed Jebson. who owned the notorious
steamer Mazatlan. was largely interested.
At the time of her capture the J^eonore
was under charter to Otto Radamacher.
German vice consul at Guaymas. Mexico.
In February. 1915, the Leonore was
used as a transport from Guaymas for
Villa soldiers, and after a short period
was captured by the Carranza government
and held until a short time ago.
Advices which reached here today indicated
quiet conditions at Guaymas and
Topolibampo.
i
AVERT STRIKE OF 75,000
MEN'S CLOTHING WORKERS
Manufacturers to Meet Employes to
Adjust Conditions?May Grant
Closed Shop.
NEW YORK, May 6.?Three thousand
employes in the men's clothing industry,
who went on strike several days
ago, will return to work Monday, and a
general strike affecting 75,000 employes
in the same industry, which was
threatened, has been averted, it was
announced tonight.
Herbert C. Ansorge, president of the
American Clothine Manufacturers' As
sociation, said that a board of mediation.
consisting of Charles L. Bernheimer,
an official of the New York
Chamber of Commerce; Dr. Henry
Moskowitz of the New York civil service
commission, and the Rev. J. L.
Menges, had been appointed and would
meet after the men have returned to
work. In the hope of adjusting all differences.
Mr. Ansorge declared that the 125
. manufacturers represented by his as
sociation were willing: to meet their
employes on any reasonable proposition,
as a general strike at this time
would work a great hardship in the
clothing industry, which now is enjoying
the greatest prosperity in its history.
The differences were brought ;
about by the workers' demand for a
closed shop, which, Mr. Ansorge said, j
probably would be granted.
HEARS NAVY YARD EMPLOYES.
Assistant Secretary Roosevelt at
Norfolk to Consider Grievances.
NORFOLK, Va.. May 6.?Franklin D.
Roosevelt, assistant secretary of the
navy, came to Norfolk today for a conference
with navy yard employes on
grievances the men wanted to present
relative to a wage scale. A delegation
of the men saw Mr. Roosevelt this afternoon
and a second conference was
held tonight.
Mr. Roosevelt came on the Sylph
from Richmond. His party, which included
Franklin Lane, Secretary of the
Interior; Mrs. Lane and Miss Lane and
Adolph C. Miller of the federal reserve
board and Mrs. Miller, left the Virginia
capital last night and stopped at Upper
Brandon, en route to Norfolk. A stop
also was made at Jamestown Island.
The party expects to leave during the
night for Washington on board the
OPPOSES CHANGE (
IND.MIL PLAN
Representative Tinkham Believes
Half-and-Half the
Soundest Svstem. I
ADDRESSES FEDERATION
CITIZENS' ASSOCIATIONS
I
Believes Congress Will Adopt Only
the Most liberal Policy
Toward Capital.
Representative George H. Tlnkham
of Boston last night practically served
notice in a speech before the Federation
of Citizens' Associations that he
will oppose any effort to change the
present fiscal relations between the
District and federal governments.
He declared that while he has not in- ]
' vest i&ated the subject as carefully as
he intends to, his present disposition
is to regard the half-and-half act 'as
the soundest and best law and the one
that most effectively will obtain the
T?i atrlot and I
rrsuiia iii<11 vuiiKicao. ?ic ??
the country at large desire.
^ Because of the Interest he has shown
in District matters since becoming a
member of Congress and of the House
District committee, Mr. Tinkham was invited
to address the federation on the
needs of Washington.
His utterances relative to the organic
act were received with applause, as was
later a statement to the effect that tomorrow
he will introduce a bill designed
to correct the injustices that obtain in
the collecting of assessments for street or
alley improvements.
His Assessment Plan.
This bill, which has received the approval
of the District Commissioners,
he said, will provide that assessments
shall not become due and payable until
the street or alley improved has been
actually opened for use. The several assessments,
in accordance with the verdict
of the condemnation jury, shall
operate as a lien until the Commissioners
serve notice that the street or alley
has been opened and payments are due.
Payments may be made in three installments?one-third
within sixty days
after the serving of notice by the Commissioners;
one-third within one year
and the remainder within two years,
with interest at the rate of 4 per cent
after the expiration of sixty days from
the serving of notice.
Capital's Development.
At the outset Mr. Tinkham outlined a
policy relative to Washington's development,
which he predicted would
guide Congress in its legislative deliberations.
He said:
"Washington is the center of this
wonderful and splendid American
civilization. Here center more completely
the various phases of our civilization.
the thought of the American
people, their aspirations, than anywhere
else in the world. As Washington
is the most representative, most
national city, so more splendidly, more
impressively should it represent all in
our civilization which is sound, intelligent
and beautiful than any other city
in these United States.
"Its laws should be patterned after
the latest and most intelligent American
thought: its aspect should dazzle
the imagination and tne eye as no ?
other American city, and its admin- (
istration should be without rival. j
Sure of Liberal Policy.
"The Sixty-fourth Congress of the
L'nited States desires to do all that J
it can to accomplish these purposes j
and make these ideals existing facts, j
All that prevents this accomplishment J
in full measure is the pressure of most j
unusual and imperative legislation demanded
by th*? extraordinary time in
which we are this moment living. Congress
has now before it legislation
concerning the financial treatment of
Washington. There is a proposed
change from the so-called half-and- >
half plan. Whichever system will treat
Washington most generousl>. whichever
system will he most liberal to
Washington, I feel sure will be adopted.
Already the House has passed the j
juvenile court bill, which represents J
the most humane and latest and most |
scientific thought on the care, protec- tion
and development of children who 1
may need the fostering care of the 1
state. You know its provisions and
have approved it." 1
Discusses Other Bills. 1
<
The Boston member discussed in de- .
tail the provisions of the Juvenile *
Court bill and also the bill to establish j
here an institution for the care of the t
District's feeble-minded population. J
The latter legislation, he stated, would ^
put the District on an equal footing ?
with thirty-four states which have
made adequate provision for this class 1
of dependents. In the District there ,
are nearly 1.000 feeble-minded persons,
he pointed out. j
Mr. Tlnkam also explained ine neea f
of placing District government em- t
ploves under the civil service, as provlded
for in a bill which he has intro- c
duced. and of legislation that would (
insure an immediate trial in the mu- a
nicipal court of cases in which the r
amount involved is $500 or less. Such c
a bill is now before Congress, and the
prediction was made by the speaker ,
that it would receive favorable action I I
at this session.
There was a big representation of|
delegates at the meetihg. which was J
held at the Chamber of Commerce, and j
Mr. Tinkham was given a rising vote
of thanks for his address. Prior to his j
arrival the federation had passed the
Tinkham civil service bill, with minor ' f
j amendments. ^
Johnson Bill Debated. 1
Upon the conclusion of his speech the
federation began consideration of the ^
Johnson bill requiring the true consid- j j
eration to he stated in deeds, and Mr. I
! u
Tinkhanj took part in the extended de- j Jbate
which followed. He stated that If i t
the giving; of the true consideration!"
would help the assessors office in its i
work the objection that this require- | h
ment would be an unwarranted inter- !
ference with private rights might be I ^
overcome by a provision requiring the 1
true consideration to be stated in an "
affidavit which could be filed with the ?
board of assessors for private use. The I
bill was adopted, however, without t,
amendment. ?,
Several reports made by the committee JJ
on finance and legislation were adopted. ?
These favored the Johnson bill to deslg- J
nate parcels of land in the District for j,
(Continued on Second Page.)
* /
N>
). K. OF CARRANZA
OFTHE AGREEMENT
SENTTOOBREGON
:irst Chief Takes Exception,
However, to a Few
Minor Points.
PROTOCOL MAY BE SIGNED
AT A CONFERENCE TODAY
Jen. Trevtno Leaves Juarez to Resume
Duties in Connection
With His Command.
DELAY PLACATES MEXICANS
Latin Officials Had to Combat Widespread
Sentiment in Favor of
ImmediAtA Withdrawal
of XT. S. Troops.
EL PASO, May 6.?First Chief
Carranza sent a message to Gen.
Alvaro Obregon tonight informing
the Mexican minister of war
that he had found the agreement
with the United States satisfactory
with the exception of a few
minor points. It is now believed
that the final conference will be
held tomorrow, when the protocol
will be signed. Gen. Jacinto
Trevino, commander of the Department
of the Northeast of
Mexico, departed for his home
in Torreon tonight.
The Alvarado Mining: and Milling Company
and the l^a Bouquilla Companj,
which operate in the neighborhood of
Parral. have arranged to start men and
supplies south next Tuesday to resume
working their properties, a move, it was
said, they hardly would make if they
were not assured of tranquil conditions.
In one quarter tonight it was pointed
out that it would have been contrary to
every Mexican tradition if the conferences
had been hurried through in two or
three days. Moreover, it was asserted,
the unfavorable political effect that undue
haste would have produced in Mexico
had to he considered. Gen. Carransa and
Gen. Obregon. it was explained, still had
to combat the undoubtedly widespread
sentiment in their country- in favor of
immediate withdrawal of the American
expeditionary forces.
uoreg-on nonsuiting* nmeitains.
Incidentally. Gen. Obregon Is said to
have been taking a telegraphic toll of
the .sentiments toward the tentative
agreement held by those military chiaftains
who were unable to visit him in
Juarez.
No information was obtainable as to
the result of this action. The only opinion
that could be formed regarding it
had to be based on the information enanating
from across the Rio* Grande t??
the effect that the agreement would be
reached soon.
Notwithstanding Gen. Obregon's declaration
that there has been a split between
himself and Gen. Oarranza. persons
here in close touch with the Mexican
situation pointed out that there is hardly
likely to be an increase in the cordiality
of the two men's relations after Gen
('arranza's failure to immediately indorse
Gen. Obregon's action in the conference
with Gen. Scott The border is beginning
to take as much interest in the future
relations of the two leaders as in the relations
between the United States and
Mexico and the present negotiations between
Scott and Obregon.
Cavalry Pursues Mexicans.
COLUMBUS, N. M.. May 6 ?Afoot and
without proper clothing or food, the
tired, broken ^Mexicans who composed
the band routed at Ojos Azules Thursday
by American cavalrymen are making
their way toward the mountains,
according to reports here tonight. Th*
bandits, scattered in small groups, ware
said to be in the vicinity ot Llanos and
iichucu up pit i t-iiiiy luwani DOCOynA,
near the terminus of the Kansas Cit>,
Mexico and Orient railway and about
rorty miles from Ojos AzuJes. Close on
Lheir heels are ^picked troops of the
11th Cavalry, under MaJ. Robert L..
Howze.
Further reports indicated that MaJ.
Eiowze's plan of surprising: and making
;aptives the entire band, was frustrated
only by the alertness of a goat herd?r.
The cavalrymen had already dienounted
and were closing in on the
snemy with their pistols drawn, when
he sheep herder gave the alarm and
the Mexican bugles sounded the retreat,
rhe Americans seized a number of tfie
/ilia mounts and a quantity of arms
md equipment.
Gen. John J. Pershing, the expedltioniry
commander, recently reoeived re>orts
of the whereabouts of Villa, in
vhich he is said to place some cred nce,
it was learned tonight. In some
[uarters belief was expressed that MaJ.
iowze's command was investigating
hese reports when they encountered
he bandits. Ten Mexicans have been
tilled in the last lew weens Dy ^menan
soldiers, who caught th$m cutting
he field telegraph wire, according to
ipparently authentic reports here tolight.
It was pointed out that the wire
utting practically has ceased since.
Approval by Carranza
Is Expected to Expedite
Work of the Expedition
Gen. Carranz&'s approval of the Scottibregon
agreement, announced in news
llspatches tonight. Is expected to clear
he way for more thorough co-operaion
between the American and Mexian
troops in the campaign against
,'illa. It already has been approved by
'resident Wilson.
Details of the agreement never have
teen made public, but it is understood
o provide for more extensive use of
he railroads by the American forces
nd to establish a definite undcrstandng
on many questions which officials
iere ana in Mexico City have feared
night lead to clashes between the
Americans and the Carranza soldiers,
teports that a definite date had been
ot for withdrawal of Gen. Pershing's
xpedition have been officially denied,
o official notification of Gen. Caranza's
decision had reached Washing;*
on late last night and officials were in
gnorance as to the minor points of the
Ian on which the first chief was reported
as reserving decision. No real
bstacle to an agreement is believed to
iave been Interposed.
Resumption of negotiations for a
T
