Stilt.
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Showers to-night, cloudy to-morrow,
south winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 74; lowest, 51,
detailed weather, mall nrnl innrlnc reports on ji.igr t
IT SHINES FOR ALL
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 250.
NEW YORK, SUNDAY, MAY 7, 1916.
Copyright, llMii. b Ihe Hun Printing and Publishing Association.
64 PAGES.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
i
K
PARADE HOSTS
SEE COP SHOT
AND APPLAUD
Policoniiiii IVtondiny; to
lie Pickpocket Wounded j
hy Mistake. '
CKOWI) VIKWS IT AS
IWIiT OF riMHiKAMMK
-
Pctcctivc riiinforiiu'il ol'
Thief I'ln.v A-tinr Fires
Ileal Bullet.
One pniieinan shot another through
Me mouth In the pteseuce of Mnyot
M.tcJiel, Poliee CoiiuuiIoiicr Arthur
Wcw.li and a distinguished assemblage
of other oMclals and their guests during
the exercises following the annual pollen
tirade yesterday afternoon.
The khootlns was the ireult of the
fullutc on the pait of some one In ohalge
of the exercises In front of the" reviewing
M.ml on the east side of Fifth avenue
.it .Madison Square to acquaint all the
l-ellremcn standing about with the fact '
mat. to sb w the clllcleney of the police
iligs. a jmtrolnun e1rccd n a thus:
n.is to match a pockctbook from a isda-v
matron and then attempt to "escape" In
'ont of the review tin; Matiel
The patrolman who wan idiot. Ohrl
i-..p"her J!elll. dropped to the asphalt
foi a moment, grappling w.th Patrol
ai.m John J. Kllroy. who had idiot him.
l 'my had promptly shot to kill after
liellly. following dliectlons, had tired,
two hl.iuk c.irtrliUes. Hut a fees- svo.
' ds alter the bullet hud entered IMIly'i
in-uth - kno king out 'wo teeth, cutting i
i ie tonsue ami then hslglng in hl
nick below- the left eat -the wounded'
rnn arose to hi feet and walked un
steadily toward the uniformed police
men grouped along the curb directly '
a To" the street fiom the section of
lie review .iik taml In which weie the
Mayor and Commissioner Woods.
Ilia Crimil iiliiiu.
Most of the big crowd thai Jammed ,
no Icvicwlng stand, despite the blood on,
f' ;l.V- ihtii, appliuded under the on-
! ss.oii. of i-ours'. that thej merely had 1
n exhibition in which ohlv blank
aitiiJses had been used. Major
VI ichel, who was standltig beside i 'om-
',if.""H'T VvoimIs, about twenty feet
'roin the spot wheie Hf lily fell, did not
snow nun; lold that a terrible accident
r id Mppsm d
I'ln those who had notaed the bloi.d
'Ji' I) s chin langhel leassuripgl) to
a, v.- mi ii or children 1...1U1I with them
in -land-. He li.nl "rubbed some
id steitr on his race," they said. Ill'
f C a gnat mull) left the stand tifteen ,
'ii i't- ol more after the shooting and i
wttii li'iiue unaware Unit they had seen
.i nnti ically .shot in the head.
No sidy was Itelllv sliot bui be ws
h's-p abb d by a uiiiforincd policeman.
l a'r ihiian Parlor, us he dashed down I
e ie- u, Patiolmau Caller also had I
a be'ii told that the "pocket picking"
id i sia., " vvele lilft n nart of the
i Ills and other exercises which followed '
' ie pirade. Consequently when c.nter
w Ite.bj running between isillcemen 1
il! "f vihoni had been rehearsed to ore-1
"nil lo .tnke liellly with their clube as
r.i i and next iw liellly fir a blank '
art.idgi Carter ran out and brought j
' lub down with a nin.ush across the ,
hi . o l:ey' neel; Jint as Kllroy !
firaub'il and shot liellly 1
"I'liej'xr Shot the Major!"
Rio r.i.,. w. . , ,
tut f the revictvlng ttand ciowds took ,
ine wiioie ,nfi, calmly as II mele "police I
"i" MiMiiMiiiuM uaiihi'ii in iiromi
nil not w'ic" they heard the hott.
T'.) vr shin 'he .Mayor:" came the
rrotn main, among a mass of people,
angi'l aloiu the west sidewalk In
H.colwa). thir mow uf the .Mayor'n
( ' or. .,( the- i (-viewing stand being
otf by ihe big frame construction
'i e '-..wring the lower pait of the trl
r.eiil.ir plot south of the Woith monu-
iia
T'i liroadwii) ciowd tui-d then to
an i.tde ar..urnl the north and south
in of the subway construction build-
K i III effort III get over to the
vt. ,g Hand in l-'ifth awtiut- The.
K nes ,f poihe that had been hold,
ie ''ie Kroad vay nowd back had their
ii ii is mil, anil tlieie was some awlnirlii"
of
P 'i e nib.-, although no lnlini, of
inonn,'. befnre h,. Ilroadwa) lies had I
r. non-U in nurmiit by assurance.t
'h,- shots the) had heanl weio.
.' pa t ,f the stutits,"
'-is Iiieprctoi- l-'iauk A. Tletney 1
i- pale, who ran across the
i . hi. tout or t am after the ulioot-
' I whi-pered to Mayor Mltchel
' ' rrtniKsioi.ei Woods that llelliy
"'-t i-h il. Commlesloner Woods
I 'id whlspen-d in tutu to Miss
Morgan Hamilton, lo whom he
'- iiiiinhil Then he gave ordern
- in'.uT.il polhn drill, which had
' up " the "plcksickrt" part of
a,' untiio. be continued linmedi
'' - ill rrdet to In,;,! Hip nillnH
' K "i-iwd on the exercises and
11
1
h's -i
-Ll. .
ad
I
'" ' ie .rowd Into bellevhijr Unit
k n iisii.il had happened
ot
'n u Hunger of llenlh.
"im- ssioner t ft the sl.md and
' vr to tlie New York Hoi-vll- I '
" ' sir-in of l!r-y'ii Injuries.
1 h, l ciiief Inspector a;:1
''-i ami other also went I
' ' ' n 'he next half lioui lo
" ' - inpathy o Die wotiiideil
'I hee came out later e- piess
'ie iti'iii ovi r 'lie new. in a
"' "o tniii and ihit as 'In
wed ihe bullet was l.elgei
i I'lle ol tin: left Jaw, under and
' fionl of the left ear, the c i '
" -n no danger of death,
"'"ii.g haniieiied at I :u:, o'cloia
' ' ooii, in aUnit a quailer of an
'. the cud of Hie dr. Us and
" !n Hunt if Pie leviewlntf
.- b- liig'ng in clu.se an excep n.ii -'
d-d nnniMi tevifvv of the di
The weather, the sle of ne
' ii-ii.ii ii i of tiie throng of uier.,
"'I Illlilri-li III the lev lew-lllg
"ai us. ve all. the (.ph-nilid 'n:-
' ' na n In him , had Ciimblncl '
g g"iw or prale to thn faces of
-oner ,iuis mill Ills epul.,.,
" faded Hi n inoiiienl to wuir'el
'ir
W'- H.at woman In black and the
h "ie pre uver un Ihe corner there,"
vOiUprinj a police lleutvnaut Klandlng
' 'ihIih.i- on fifth Page,
U. S. CAVALRY
WITH VILLISTAS KILL 42
Major Howze's Troopers After All Night Ride Descend
on Villa's Strongest Band Chase Goes on
After Two Hour Battle.
i.v i:oiifiK ii, -i,t:m:.T!,
."ptrial rorrtspondent of Tiir Six
Gk.v. I'r.iHKiMj'K IlKtiguAr.Tr.ns,
Lent- Namlntlllia. via wiirtess to Cnlnm.
X. At., May C, -Half clad, afoot.
villi only .1 few tevolvurs left and with
no food the rlcmoiallzcd remnants, of
Unit was until yesterday morning- the
largest hand nf VlltUt.ia liiMMlnliiir .
"c,k""? "'"""' inou-iimn,
j south of Cuslhularhic.
.At ihelr hacks ate Hie six Hoops of
he Hlevcnth Cavalry, which tinder
' Major llowze rally yesterday at ojo
Azules swept over tlieni, killing forty
J two, woumlliig many mote, taking prls
onus and home.", all without the Ios
, either In killed or wounded of a single
Vniorlrati troopet
They ate giving (lie Villlsias no rent,
.iihough the cuvalr) men haw hcen at
lontlnuoiisly now for neatly two da..
nicy can tltid no safety In the arroyos of
an.voiis, in the thick undcrgiow til of
the mountains or the mesiiuite of the
plains. Where the more dcixTate ale
making a show of teslstunce there l
short slirlft, ami wheie (.unender come.i
tlieie ale sjieedy trips to the main col
umn. Major Howze Is still too busy to
make a detailed teimrt to (leu. Pershing.
That must come when the Job is thor-
uglily cleaned up, as It l being done.
Vet enough has come thioiigh for the
-olitlcis to say that It will be a long day
l-'fore the feat will be tepented.
(iel. Word
of llMllll,
Ma lor
at S.iii
JluHe
and his tioijieie were
Antonio, thlrtv-slx tulles north
of lijo Azules. which is seventeen mile..
mjii.Ii of ..'uslhulachlc. on Thuifday eve-
liln-,- when word came that the lllista
fotces. titidei (mis. Cruz lominguez.
!. Acota and Antonio Anacles. a
oii.ln of Villa's former chief of aitll
leij Gen. I'elipe Aliueles, had at
tacked the Oarranr.a garrison at that
Point late In the afternoon.
The itariisou had held them off until'
nightfall, when hostilities ceased undi r .
the Mexican custom, but then- were fears
for the morning us the Villlstas wen in
conslde-able force. j
The American troopcis -n out on that
thlrty-slx mile dah at s ::m o'clock In j
the evening over a couutiy bad enough,
in the diytlme. but positively d.ingeroiH'
at alght. They had not only to make '
the trii in safety, but also to prevent
any word going to the bandits.
1' wa just daylight nine hours lati .
'hat the Americans locate. I the I siegers
"f the town bivou iched among vJie adobe
huts on the outskirts, slcei.ng, their
lie. ol." urappe.1 In their blankets ana
s rapes. It was upon this sleeping horde
thai the troops descended, horses at a
deaa um and the men all .selling Tin.
niirpr.ae ss'as almost einiiplete. If it had
not breu for the man riding night held
on tlte horse. It would have been en
lltels complete
Utfore anv but a few knew they weie
coining the Americans weie Into the,
thick of them, horses plunging and the
men using their automatics as fast as
the) could Insert the cllns
Ihere was not a cIiiiiicl to Hcht back
f' niost of the Mexicans. They had no
time to msh into the 'dobo house, and
I sniping They could not make a
tai.d behind walls; they ill, I not
eveu I
have time to get their lilies In a majority
"f eases. They thought only of (light
from the khaki clad demons that were
cveij where shooting them down, riding
them down.
Only ths"- who had heard the alarm
given by the herder got away, but they
had to get away on foot. The few who
lln(l weapons made a show of tight after
they had escaped from the ring of death,
but the cavalrymen were after them in
a little while ami they took to Might.
When the rest came, after two hours
llghtlns nnd the overjoed CarranzlKtas
,, veiilur.d from the town, an acooei
f t.
situation wan taken by Ihe com
mander. HI men plckul up forty-two
dead bandits and must have found man)
wounded. Among the dead wele Angeles
and "ther officers.
Prisoner. Sri I'ree.
The pilsoneis, herded Into a coital I
after being c-eniehcd, were nyt turned
over to the Carraiizlsiae. I'lve Carian
HI. i prisoner. tied up 111 an adobe hut
were irhased and turned uver lo the
authorities. They had been Carranzlstas
captured by the bandit the evening
before and promptly sentenced to death.
Al.ei- this phase of the, fight had l 1 1
akcertalned t lie soldiers also tound man)
lilies, revolvers, cartridge belts. Jerked
litef and beans for food and above seventy-live
or eighty horses, hi uncos and
mules which had not been stampeded.
The news of the battle was received
at Gen, Peishlng's headquarters with
(neat Joy The enlisted men speak of It
now as the first revenge for the death of
the Americans In the battle at Temechic
on April 1'2 with the same band. It ap-
peats to please the Mexican population'
as well, although It was mucin on ire
morning of 'he Cluco de Mayo, Mexico's
great national holiday
G'AW. CARRANZA AGREES.
tpiirosr III Hut Ken Oetnlln of
t.en. Scull's Pin ll.
Hi. Paso. .May 11. It was announced
,n .luaiez to-lnght that the long expected vv lieu me mallei came up before Hie
leply hid been received fiom Gen. Car-1 Horough Council, Mrs. Waiden foughi i
rauza at Mexico city legarilmg the tenia-j vigorously, as the proposed j,treet c ut
live agreement drawn up and signed by actoss a part of her properly The Com .
Gen. Scott and Gen, Obiegon, and It wasjcil granted Mr. Mott the pilviUge mid
Mated on Gen (ibregon s car the reply of i
ihe l-'lrst Chief was rotisldered sail
fartory.
Jn a few minor details the Flint Chief
Is said to have differed Willi hi Min
ister of War. but that In the main thr
agreement wa. satisfactory to t' - Car.
lanza Gov ernuient.
Soon after the icceipl of the aiviouuni
meiii Gen. Trcvir.Q'r car attached to a
THE SUN TO-DAY
CONSISTS OF EIGHT SECTIONS, AS FOLLOWS:
FIRST Cfncril New.
SECOSD Sporting, Kennrli, Automobile!
THIRD Society, Drama, Fiihionn, Muiic
FOURTH -Pictoriil M.guine
FIFTH -l.itliogravure Supplnntnt, Art
SIXTH Special Feature!, Book, Oueriei,
SEl'ENTH -Foreign. Schools, Gardens, Poultry,
EIGHTH -Real Estate
Total
Rtaittt or ntatdtottn uho Jo not rectltt oil ol that utlions uill tonjir a trot
on 'TA Sun" ty noltfylni (At PuUlctllon Dtpattmtnt ot onto iy tkt phont
1200 Bttkmon) and mttitnt tutlotupttl ot.gnmpily fotworiti ij pouthU.
IN BATTLE
special train left fot Ton run It is be..
Ileed that the final conference will fol
low soon, as the approval of (Sen. Car
ran.a Is n.tld to have ended the
temporary ile.tdlocl,.
This mornltiK Jeii obi-egon iad a
lengthy cotiveniatloii with (Jen. Trevlno,
coininander In northern Mexico; (ten, Cal
le, eoiiiinander In Solium, and Andies
(Jarcla, fonsul In M I'aso.
Later a nie.sencer from (ten. (ilneemi
i ailed on Hen. st-ott with n note. Gens.
Scott and Knntoii and their staffi wtre '
busy all afternoon In their private car Wasiiimitov. May (S.--Vlenr. pie-
and denied themsle. to visitors, I.'ven I pared heie by 'teptibllean Icailers Idtntl-
atTO -n f
waiting to net an audience with lien. 1 ,1IlIa,r!' l,1(" " a" "favorite sons" Indicate
Sonlt, ' j that Theoilore ltooeelt stands little or
Neither faction "PPeared coiicenifil I no ihance of landliiK the tiotttln.it Ion at
nri,m re.,srnBnnVhl.1,',,,V;.(i0n' Uhp coxe,on to 1. held In n,.,MRo in
ine impression that thltiRH would be set- 1 ,
tied satisfactorily when they meet again. iJU'-
Satl.sfa.'tlon w:i4 eldenced In Juarez as Impelled lj a deue to nominate one
well in In the American ileneral'M car, of their own tiuinber. the favorite sons
oxer the news of the victory of the Amer. sinitr.,1 m m.mn u..i. .,. in t," Me
I H,a'. under Major Howze. i.eai
u-iiiuiiiaciiic, in winch forty-two ban-
dlts were Killed and a number of Car.
lanzlstas set at llbrrtv
l'he amicable settlement of the .ff.
tully between the Polled States and
Germany may have a hearing on the
Mexican situation favorable to the
I'nlted States, it has been reported on
the bolder that Mhould the I'nlted States
bleak diplomatic telatlons with Oci
many the Mexican Government might be
less 1 1 actable In Us dealings with Gen.
Scott, but that In the evi lit of a peace
ab settlement of the aigunient with
Geimany Mexico would be afraid to
ptess her demand lo a point would lnl
tate the American Government too much
II IS a ran IIimi Xlnv , ... ..rri.a .iu t. .....
,is,.iv ,i, ..' , ;.. ....
iween Washio..,,,, i w.i,. .....
,iey showed ,rv deep interest m the
,,.,, reu,. ,,, ,;., , ' ," ,;,',.
K tln tonal comments of the Get-
Ju-jm.in nnd American panels lo.eK
LUSITANIA MEETING
PUT OFF ON REQUEST
( Ollllllll lee
Defers lo Mavor's
Wishes hut Denounces (ier
many in Resolution.
At the rciuest of Maor Miichfl i
Ameilcan ttints Committee decided -
terday to postpone the Ltiltau!a in
mortal imetmg, which w.i to has.- bee i
held at Carneijie Hall to-night. X sUf.
ment was .ssued bj the oommltlee My
itis that the Hireling was postponed "in
d(fer' .-e to toe .suggestion of Hi, M.ijo .
who thought it impo-taii! i moid in'
i:sl; ,.f eiiib.iiti,!ng the national Admlo.
Islratlon at ihls critical stage of tie
tiegotliitions with G-rman.'i
This deference to the Mavoi wishes
did not pi event the committee from g!v
i ig out for piililicat, on a resolution which
would have been -adopted 1,;, Hie meet
ing been held Tills le-o'.ution de
nounce ll,' Geiinin Goseramei'i bit.
terl) ami deinands that the W dyon Ad-
mltilidratlof adept a more vlgoious p,n-
ley toward Oermauy A tor the mist
lecent note from German) the lesoluiio i
m It offers "only teiniMraiy suspei..
elon of Indlsci imlnatu slaushler.'- and
calls upon the Government of the I'ni'ed
Stales to sever diplomatic relations liu
med Intel)
LUSITANIA DAY IN LONDON.
Pi-oi'-ra.lon llrlil In oiniiirmorntlon
nl Itlnnater,
Lo.stmjx-, May c , pioerlon and
meeting In Hyde Park In commemora
tion of the sinking of the Lusltanla was
held to-day In Loudon. A large model
of the sunken liner was prominent in
Ihe procession, On a banner were in
sciihed tin- words
"lleniember the I.iisltatu.i ' Seventh of
Mas. 1 May that crime be fo nisen
I in heaven but not foi gotten on eaiih."
I In the pr sslon, which marched from
Westminster to Hyde P.uk, were several
survivors of the Lultanla, delegations of
the lied Cross, wounded soblleis and
repiesentatlve of the other allied coun-
tries, wearing their national costumes.
WOMAN HORSEWHIPS BANKER.
Iliinuril I'. Sli.it Victim uf ltHslilde
Uloisa Ihrr Street llpenlnH.
iK.vAii.T, .. ,i .viay k, . . warrant
was wsiieii tuts evening for the arrest if
Mrs. Julia Warden on a charge of hins-.
whipping her neighbor, Howard I-' Molt,
who is connected with the Hanker.
."""' '- " " aiannatian The at-
,tK ere.ueu a Hir in this borough, and
created a Mir
tne coii't room in the Munlcln.il nnit.t.
ing wns ciowiled when Itecorder Maug
ham sat for the hearing at s o'i lock.
A physician said -Mrs. Warden was IOO
III to appear, as the result of tietvous
excitement, and the case was adjourned
till Monday.
The bolghboily qu-mel fieiraii ub.-i.
I Mr. Mott offi-i-cil to pay for the opening
of a slteet from Hudson avenue north, i
'illstnme of ,'irio yatds, to his estate
tne wont is now under way.
Late (his afternoon mion .Mr. Mottv
retiirii from New York he was met ,,n
the hlghwit) near Ills home by Mrs. War.
den, who was armed with a 'or.sehhl,.
whip, which she began in appl,v vigor
ously about te hunker's Khoiildeih and
head. Mr. Mott got nway nnd sought
Itecorder Maugham, who Issued a wui
rn. l'"eii,
. 8
. 4
8
!!
, ,
Chess
Financial, Problems
FAVORITE SONS AIM
TO ELIMINATE T. R.
! Also Hope to Keep Nomination
From Hughes by Com
bined Strength.
SAY TIIKV HOLD t!M VdTKS;
HooM'velt Will Not Have
Votes in Convention.
They rtaure.
Itoosevi It, and they i l.ilut they haw at
conipl.shed their purpo-c.
! A.voiilln.- to n sinteoieni mnrle tier,.
io-iiay, .tir. itooseveii win not nave to
exceed sl.Mj-flve votes In the ChlcaRO
convention, and under th,e cltcum
sliinci.". it Is pointed out, he cannot be
iiatned unless them Is a stampede The
men who expect to run the lomcntloii
Insist that If there Is a Htaiiipc-.lc in the
Chicago convention Justice llimhes and
not (.'ol. Hoosevilt will bo the benetlclar
Aciordlng to the statement iniirid b
one of the m.in.iKer of a favorite nun
cauilldate of the middle West. I'.llhu Itoot
wilt go into the convent, ou with 120
delegates pit dsed to his support, all of
which will stand pat In the r iillegi.nn
a long as tlieie ma In a thaiue
make linn the noinlme
I'ioiii ibis aine oiiric th slatenient la
made liiat the other candidates will o
Into Ihe com, nt ion with de'egat.-H to In
ntimin't a indicati-J lime
Slu t man. 'oi . I!ooevelt lluitou.
110 r.i.i bulk. Mo. ('ummiTis. Si ;
II l!lli-, '.oi 1., Toilette. . Week-.
II" I'o d. :t" . ICiios. ST., and du Pont. i
Tr.s to Humiliate IIukIi'
The managers of the lavorite sou an
0. dates make no bones of the fact tliat
at present they ale ctideav oritur to ellm
lliate .lust.'e Ilughes as a factor In the
Chicago convention. They are hopeful
of accomplishing thl end. but concede
that Justice Hughes Is running fast, with
a piobabllll, that he may be named by
' acclamation on one of the eirly ballots
There will be '.'s;, delegates in the e'h.
cago coiiv. ii'.ioi- A baie majoilty of the
convention I- Pi.', If the tuures given
ilmve ale coi red Slier man. I'alrhaiiks,
durum and Hoot iimtrol p.ni. Thete I
a suggestion here that the candidates
named are working under n .community
of interest plan and that operating In
unijunction with Senator Week are In
a i oMtlou to dominate.
un the face of these rlguies .Mr. House,
velt would not have even a gamble!
ch.iur foi the nomination .lustiie
Hughes would also -rem to be eliminated
at the oiitnil l.eadei heie who are
!e.si.inslMe tor these figure Insist tin)
ne confident that Ml Ibsisevelt will no:
win. but thi are not so conildeiit that
the) will be able to head on the Hughes
movement.
It ha been knoan here for oiue weeks
that certain leader were busy trying lo
lilo-k the ltoosi'Vell Iskuu Statement
have been nude that a sufflc cut num
ber of delegates have altiadv pledged
theiiisehe to sole against Hie former
President In any and all circumstance.
me Mh liu ti Nineties.
The antl-ltooievelt men claim to
know precisely what their delegate will
do so far as Itoo.evelt I concei ned, but
admit that these vote may go to
Hughe or s, ,in, body else not lileuiliU-d
with the "favoille son" gloup.
Included In the delegaiis lined up for
favorite son ate approximately JTO
from the South Delegates from that
section always have been responsive to
the regular leadership In the past and
the antl-ltoosevi-lt managers are ioull
dent that they will stand pat against
the Colonel to the end
A good deal of inlsslonai y work Is
now- being done in behalf of Suiaior
Sherman of Illinois, who has hriidquar
tors In operation tu Washington as well
as Chl'ago. The Sherman demonstra
tion In Chicago during convention wci-lj
bids fair to Ik about the biggest tlung
of Its kind In town
The Sherman managi-i have arianged
to have about ihi.flni) Sheiman boomers
In Chicago and through parade ami
oilier forms of demonstration to Inline.-
the visltoi from abroad with the
earncMness of Hie movement In behalf
of the State's favoille on
BAY STATE MOOSE NAME T. R.
I'.leel Hell-antes Plrdurd In Mini nt
stale Convention,
H'lSTos. May '! - Mas ichiintts r-..
gieslves, meeting 111 Slate convent on it ,
r.inuel' Hall lids afternoon uulon-el'
Theodoie lloosevelt fur the l'ogrrie
Piisidenllal nomination and seh-i ted ih:
rg.nes at huge, dlsttlct delegates and i!.
tetnati to the natlor.nl convention of the
paily
A "keynote" speech by Prof. Albert M.
Hint of Haivard and a liol) llrsisevei.
tlan enthusiasm weie reunites: of tv run-1
venlloli. Allegiance to the Hull Moose1
platform principles was icalllrmed
PEACE OR U. S. WILL ACT.
I. s, Vllnlslrr Warns niitn liu.
iniiiun or irmcil I iilervenl Inn,
Santo DoMiNfio, May ii--As a icult
of hostilities here III the alletnpi lo over
throw Pii'sldenl Jliiienez, William W.
Ilussell, American .Minister, warned the
ofth-ials that arnii-d liiterventlon would
rcfiiilt lu seventy-two hours unless mat
lets veie adjusted bdvveen the fiiiilons.
Gen Arias agreed to Mirrendi'r on roii
illllon Hut die Pie.ldeiil irilgii. Tin
coniinls.don thru carried the pi-tijiurltinn
In President Jlnii-nez. hut the Presldi nt
has nut yet given Ins tliiiUnn
Isr.v WusT. I'la . May ll - The de
etroyer Walkc nnd Terry sailed from
here lii-iijit for S.iiitn Dumlngo, while
at the navy yard It was Irained that
live other destroyers', the I'lusser, Sirrett,
Held Piestnu mid Lamsun would sail to
nun row acciiinpaiileil by the Mipply ship
Panther
2,500 FOOT FALL KILLS FILER,
Cnpt, Wnrden
l,iii I lie
Cornea tn lirlef In
l.oup In Trial,
int.t.ss, Tex'
Mat' C- Cam. .1 il
Warden of Dallas, fell 2inn feet and
was Instantly killed this afternoon when
Ills monoplane rnllapsed 111 a limp. Die.
loop Might at Vlckery, north of line.
Worden whs Hying upside down when
the whig bent double.. Uvory bona !n
nis onuy was nroi cn.
I
BRITAIN ANSWERS
BLOCKADE ATTACK
Charucs in (ionnan Note
t. S. Tii km I'p by Lord
Robert Ceeil.
lo
!' IIOATS I'OKCKD ACTION'
No Neutral Life Lost by Kiijj
la lid's Con I'M1. Is Dec
laration. f.K .,V llflltch In Till MS
I.0XI10X, May The llrltlsh teply to
tin' chatues in tin Herman note ml
dtesei l.i the Tnlted Stales to the effect
that ilieat lllitnlii has violated Interna-! "" caused In Germany by the publlca
tlonal law In the niattei of the present I """ "r tnfl Herman reply lo President
blockade f On many was made to-night
In the form of a seiul-otllcial statement
Issued b Lord liobeit Cecil, Minister of
lilockade
The statement .s a. ,n efTect a npl
to the decimation made by tin I'nlted
States In Its note of November 14 that
ine niocKaile must he confined to not I
on me coasts ot tne enemy it holds ; i.ut inat tin- ( lerinati note does not con-
that no neutinls have suffered tlilough , "It will not b expected of us. in , lie In a Listing i enunciation of the prln
tin existing HrilSh blockade of Gel-1 view of oar attitude towat d this ones- ' ,':l'1'"' "iivnl wurfaie, dellnuiled hv
lii.iny. anJ cites pit cedent for lt pol-; . . ,,,,, ,., . ., ! "'e German Admiral!)
lion In consldeung foodsttilTs Inletided ' , ""."'" Kr" 1 """' I The concession whl.-li Germaiiv makes
for an enetii) destltiatloii as contraband
i.oru Kooeiis Mateinent follows.
"The reply of the German Government
i. . o"ie "i ai'ni respect-
inunl.-atloii upon which any general com-
,mk "uMiii,., nie wiiri.iie i- uoi a com
meat can properly be made In this coun -
tiv. .f the iueston
s at Issue concern
I Germany, and anv
Ird party would be
the I'nlted States and
Intel ference b) a third
presumptuous
erillMli I III I Ills IteslesTrd,
Suae, howeve' tl-.e Giimati nob-
contain- . erialn m:ss--1;einetu of fact
le-pe-ilrg the actions i,r liicat ltrltam.
Un- fotlowi'ig observation mav not be
tboiight nut ,,f jila, , .
"The Geimaii Goviinment states that
thev have s f,,r ;,, j, possible lustltlltisl
a far re.o lilng restraint upon the use of
the subni irlne weasin soh l) in con- i
s:di ration of neutral Interests, ami In.
spite of the fact that thee restriction
weie neeessarllv of advantage to Ger
many's enemies
"It is alleged that no sii.h conshi.
er.iiiou pas
ver been shown lo r,e,.ir..ls;
b lreat llrltaln and her allies
in,- i.ici ner out tliese as.er-
""s .-o iar as i Known the measures
taken by Gt.Mt llritaln against German I
iraue iiiv.- cot no neutral h,s Hfe
meat nrit.ilti maintains that thev urel,
In .ii cuid with the ptliiclples of Inter-'
national lave, ami l prepared lo make
gojd that claim I
"They can surely lompare favorabl). I
s.i tar as i ons.ii.-iatlon -o neutral. Is
(on. eriuil. w .th
policy whose ftultslire
seen in th
iriigeuis. ot toe LUltatda,
tin- Alatjli, and the Sussex
'The Geiniaiis maintain that it was
. wing to he Illegal cundiKt of the 1 1 r It- i
Ish warfair that Germany was forced i
lo resent t I,,,- yuhin.it Ine campaign ;
This is not the first time that the Get-,
man have attempted to Justify then-
suhoi.iine M Mf...... ., e.,..,i
!t is a measure of rts .1 .n-.nwt ',h
action of the llrltlsh Goseintnent In cut
tine off siiimlies from Germane
"The following list of lliebleill. in'
chronological older should suffice to
dispose of this. pea
"Septe'llh."-. l'.H I
-Dlll.h vessel Maria I
riom allfornla for IHiblln and Helfast
w'th cargo of grain for the civil popu
lation, sunk by tiie German cruiser
Karlsruhe
"iictoher IS I'.iM- The Admual Can-
teaiime. with :',finu unarmed lefugees, I
sunk by a German submarine 1
"I'eceniher. HO Admiral von Tir
pltz foteshailowed adoption of submarine
.'ampalgii.
"January ST. 191.1 American ship
William P. l-'rye. with wheat from
Seattle for eJueintowii, sunk be Ger
man auxiliary cruiser Kronprlnz WIN
lielti .
IThe William ! l-'rye. according to'
Pteviou reporte, was sunk bv the I'rlnz '
L1tl l-'iliilrlh.
"l-'ehiuaiy 4, Ifii:. -Declaration hy
the i L l ma n Gov ernuient of their Inten
tion to Institute a general submarine
blockade of Gieat llrltaln and Ireland '
with the avowed puipose of cutting off
all supplies from these Islands, This
lilock.nlo van put 'ntu effect officially
IMiruary I although ,i a matter of
fact a merchant hlp had beu sunk
by a Gel mall Mlbniarllie at the end of
Januar
' llt l till I'm ceil in
Aellllll,"
"It was not until Ma.ch 11, I'.G.I, that Pope's entourage . that German Atu.-r-ihe
prueiit measiiie against German lean leiatlons will not be broken off,
nail" weie put in tone by Great Hi llaln. i "Incn Oetmatiy's repl) I purisisely i-m-llefoi,.
the enforcement of those ni(.,is. I'lll.itoty. but Ambassador Gerard i ex
lues the Germans had destroyed cargofa peeled tn go tu America, being replaced
of roodlulfs coining to the civilian nonu.
lailonol Oil rountt y , had declared their .
Intention uf Instituting a system of sub- 1
inailne uutrage, and had actually sub
marined niei.-haui vessels without
warning
"As foi their pietended tenderness for.
non-combatant., their slaughter of old
men, children, women and girl in Hei. !
gium ami iioriiiirn i-rance. not to speak
of the unieporteil pioceedit.gs of their
honor-il allies In Armenia, forever pre
vent them from being heard In smh a
cause
"The Geimaii Goveinnieiil speak nf
many millions of women and children,
who, accoidliig In Ihn avowed intent Ion
of Ihe Hilllsli Government ate to he
slaived. and who by their Miffi'ilngs shall
fni i e Ihe vlctoiious armies tit (he Central
Pnweis lutn all iKIininlnlous i iipllulntlon.
"ill nils connection It Is Interesting to
reinemiiei llint at the beginning nf l.-isi i
nioiilh Ihe Geiiuiin Chancellor made the
Inllowlug reniiiiks in Ihe llelchstai.-
" i can understand that In liil.1 the
enemy would not give up hope of starv
ing Germany, Inn I cannot understand
how cool heads can cling to it after the
expi lieiice of 1111,1,
" 'our enemies forget that, thank to
ill" oigaiiieipg powers or tne whole na
tion, Germany Is equil to (he task uf the
distribution of victuals. Our Mocks of
bread mid grain will not only be snf.
leirui nut will leave
in ainplo reserve '
wuii which in eouuuriire ,no new war
We have not run short uf anything in
Ihe past, nor shall we run short of any
thing In the future.'
"Tlieie is a nil Inns contradiction be
tween this statement and the appeal on
, behalf of the starving w'ouieu and chll-
i iii.ii
iin,.. ,.. ...... i
onhilons of wo fnmnr .n
inlor, of .vv,, former j,;nan .u, ,
o . , I ""r" l ( ,,''' f'''P"Vl.
to th. right of a belligerent to cut off ,
htl titillfM nf Ilia minim1
Hll'
us
Hie supplies (if his enemy
"In
isr,.
at the lime when his Mai-
esl)'
Government
was discussing Wt,
Pniilfinfrt oiivAr -om Page,
WILSON TO ACCEPT REPL Y
IF GERMANY KEEPS PLEDGE;
LANSING PLANS U. S ANSWER
GERMAN PEOPLE BELIEVE
ISSUE NOW WITH THE U. S.
Newspapers Say, oh Reply to United States Note, That
the Danger of War Has Been Passed
Jagow Is Praised.
llMil.i.v, ia London. .la Little
excitement and not even much Interest
' "'ls,uin note.
Although ni Hspapein Issued extra
lions and newsdealers; ordeted a luge
supply of paper, there was no tush
iii'
gl the gist of Ihe note, as was the case
with .President Wls0n' su- ailed de.
maud.
i. , .. .. .. ..
wutsc I.I.II10.1IO in en- i os.sj.Tir
i ul u:l whlcli om (.overvinent
; "" avoiu a conuici.
. However, he .sa.vs. If It should end
,, imcertalntle
and
the holies
j !""""' PriliUm WlUon's futuie
! , c "mu,u 1,1 icanzni, ne win join
I '"' ' Be'ieral rejoicing.
; l"'"fs waiml:
! """ r 'a. that G
I raises Ihu
erman stales.
men lotild not do otherwise, and thev
nave ii.isiien tiie hopes of Girmany's
enemies The Government, it eaj.
did what "all Hie commaiidinenls of
political wi-nlom required,- and the
dension xs ill be wi honied .!, tin
broadest elide of the Gel man ,eope
fdr 'o( a;s Getmany' nurse wa
dictated by tin- n-allzatlon of her own
strength Th. re can. however, be no
further i olicessloil. the IK-Wspaper add.
tor it seems the limit of .hltx
lell le.uhed
has
that
for";x.;ie!;:ein i,f
..-l-M. l' '
.. ' ..'.""",:"""'-. .''. '"'"-
1 '''?' aiw.''gn at till time we
O.'tss nt.l- 1 ,t si I..,,.-.. . I, -. I.I.. . ..
, !. '." -'si'ii'ianie in
I the coiuesslon for carrying ou the war
"'.'i.'.V. V . "V "'"vinote is Inspired by
'. .' " "....marine
i ii.l'.it ii in ; uoi ,i iiuinoer
The oer.seii ritunp rail the note .
a pleasant surprise." In that it ill. .
slpatcd fears lest the Government might '
make too great c-oneeons. It add, that
even the circle which are disposed to,
1 ,. rl,i,.i. .,
The Frankfurtrr rituiijt points nut
that Germany's abaiidoiiin, ut or her
submarine campaign ,s nm definitive
"It .-nil haidlv be expected to hold
p. rmanently '! rrermnny's enemies .-on-tlliue
their Illegal methods of trying to
con,,.., ueiiiiais, i,K,. nonami and Swe.
' ,1':"' !'-rtle!p.ite n the eionomlc block
acalnst l li-rin.i ii v
'I "Presideiu WINon ha gained a
vlctoi.v His position can becotn
1 . '"''"";' viion lias gained a great
V IClOi .V His position C.I11 beiOIlle v r)
great :i ie opposes l.nglalid wltn energv
l ni ilfl, ,I,A ... !I.O... .... .'
I ,,,v j., ,(.,---' ' iiueiua
The natur further i.i.. tl, ..,.,..-
, .i . .. . '
Ion that the German reply to America
i will have a depressing effect m London
: -,,.1 n.ris o. - i..n i.i.
j ...... o.-. ..,.-. .nun mi
wa regarded a certain In those clt.-.
'PEACE,' POPE'S PLEA TO
WILSON AND KAISER
Pontiff Kvlinrt Hoth I'resj.
dent and Kmpcror to
Avoid Hostilities.
SJ,,. ,1 I ,U,tr flstptitrf, In Till: Ms
HoMK, May 'i. -The Mrmnpiva statej
that the Pope has s tit messiges to
President Wl!oii and tn I-lmpemr Will.
I lam, exhorting them In avoid a break of
I lltlitnv, 1 1. rel.tllaitis
Tbe nievailllic oir, resell.,, ..f liu.
by the Charge d'Affaire
UV.SO.V GKTS MESSAGE.
lllul Thai Time Is Vearls lllpe in
llml War.
WsMllMiTiiS'. May 6.- I'lesldent Wil
son leceiveil from Pope Ileiieillct to-day
a mei-sagii which l understood to ie.
late to the outlook for peace and the open
ing for ii.ediatlfsti by the 1,'nlted Slate
The message, said lo have been cabled
from the Vatican yesterday, wis de
livered to Serretaty Tumulty by Mgr
Giovanni llonzan.i, the Apostolic D,-le.
gate at Washington,
Mgr IhKizano refusisl to see news
paper correspondents, and otln-i high
Catholic ilUnltaries jiinfessed iginuance
of the contents of the papal lummiinl
catlnn. White House oillcials irfused
to i-omitient ooou tbe niii.u
Auihot Itatlvn Informallou wa sei urnl.
however, thai thn Pope hail appealed
lo President Wilson for the pi esei vatlon
nf peace between the Pulled Slates
and iieriniiny, at the Mime time ieei ring,
at lean III general trim, to the pvis
slbillty that tieace proiioisnlK in the early
ttituie would receive favoiable conshleia
1 1 on nmong the belligerent nnllnns
This is the second time the Pope
has moved for peace through the en.
Oliet-ntlon nf th Wl.tt,, 11,,,. L., s1 ...i
months a,0 Cardinal Glbbims ' called
upon Ihe I'resiileut and lelvei,.ii a
similar peaie message which Intel been
cabled from the Vatican. Details of
lite papal nutsHiRe never were disclosed,
and coiillidlng repm tn from Catholic
eources hero and .it the Vatican were
given out as lo the exact character of
iii' i ope iiirssagi'.
' J' . I resident, It is under-
m.,, ,, ..M' " X'ZZn
to await some suggestion from Ihe AN
lie b'efore laiiniilng mediation pro-
'
posals,
Germany's w llllngne-s in illscuss neac.
pinposals satisfiictory lo herself has I
been much advertised
eral months.
in the past sev j
r . 'I
dl.., i of onllii t w Itti
gieatiy diminished by
i ne i.erimin t.ote, alUiough "the danger
of futuie .ontlhis Ih not excluded."
The tiew-paji. r confesses that It an-
I penrr. iinrmtuiialely to be a fact that
It. j I'iciiileiit Wilson was right In maintain-
J.ng tli.it the Sussex fell a victim to a
i("-iiii.in aitai-i,
Ii I'oiiioii.iit fhu e,.,- i. . ,1...
, man note does not tevokc the Intention
( Apieseil in the German declaration or
jlMiiuais s. t, ;lt triim ineichaiit hlis
Iwhlih aie aimed with guns would h,.
',,,..,. ,.. ,w ... ' . . ,
1 1,. Atnetha, says the Morlnlschc' .ritutitj,
urnliiihleill lemleiH the conduit of 'lie
war mole dlftlcult to Germane, and in
j view of the gnat superiority of her ene
I 'ine at -e.i it Is a i mcessl.in Hie gnat
lies of which Ainei ii-.iii must ,ip..e. late
! Hill teCoglil.e.
I The Cooflili' tiir.ttti; ,U
We ically have siittic.eiit ( t.euoes. .u. (
our enemies do not make it easy fur
u lo beat them We al' know that' Get
inar.v s back will in- luokeu If we do not
w'i t.i' wai Tliat .s why all olhi r
tlioaghls ought -. . biusiied aide. anil
w it niilv reasona uii- one ought tu b-
' lltel la, Hell
We must .heleline an, id llllli, ultle.
win Ii might bring about wai wlth Ainei
ica and have upon p.eMilent Wilson n
s.i iisib,lity for su.-li a atastruphe, if he
Wallls 11 All 111,- s.im.. ... I...II......
th,. Kmj.eror and hi coutisellors had no
iiteiiiatl
It mu't have he,,i hard for them, and
-- r xr-r.;
IsMieful outcome ..i (he blsls Mt foi III
by lilent Wilson. "
i The llcrlm Tnn, Matt suoun.i. ib.
' ' ' '
n-aiii points of ihe n,,t and hui,e
.. ,. .n .. .... ... . . '
that
The
sincere wih ii.
avu , ., ,re..:i
With the I'nlted Stale..
The Government In ignoilng the tone of
President Wilson's note has gone straight
to the point vvheieln there i a possibility
of an iiKteemeiit by otTerlng to conduit
the "til. marine ca:r..al,'ii within the limit
of ante-bellum Ihlel national law1
' "'" ' mm an.i iurtlie.-t . on.
s.ou that t.eimaiiv ran make, .,i should
ll i- expectation that H-gland 1,.- now i
qi'ired t" niiitn .i the same Ium. ,,f in
ternatlonal law i.e de.eived the Gnv.-in-tr.ent
teserves lull lilarlv if a, tmn '
The Taitlti hr .'l'liin ;.m urge tint
cerybi.dy siili.udlti.it hi ,,wn Judgment
at.d stand bi-hlnd the Oovei ntneiit. Tne
p.ipe- adds .
"Vfler Geimanv ha imdeitaken tins
doubly dlttlciilt s.i i, the Geitnan-, -in-entitled
to expert Ameri. -a to ktep her
proniNe to rosioie th.. freedom "f th,.
sea n against all belligerents.
'. : '. . .. : siuen..,n ,., pie
"" i.eiore an t ie vv-oi i whether its
purpose w as to protect tne ugh s of 1. ...
m.niit. , ,., ... ... ,...,.....'...,'"..
." . " i."si.inn s ma- vvun
a view tu
otirv .. toi
ctlpplmg
and fiustr-iting
HARDEN RENEWS
DEFENCE OF WILSON
fiernian Writer Says I'resiileut
Did His Duty in Protest
to Germain .
Hn i x
Colliclllelll
May .'., via Lonibn . May ".
with the ib-liveiy of ihe Gei-
man leply
to the latest An'-ticati note
on si.in wai far. Maximilian Mai
den, writing In file yut,inft of May 4,
l.'sum. s the ilef.'in.. f Pr.'sldeiu Wilson
and tin- Ameiican p,,.,,, ,,f view, w lilrh
be luol, up I,, i,,s ,-,,t:rte If We,,.
V lloll" t, et')
i i'tiihiy s ai'ie!,. loie
"The Ileal Wilson" Hot:
llie In mill, g
Jlanleii de-
scribe the American President a "a
man of high moial and high pirltuil
chaiacler of whom we nilqhl be proud
if lie vv etc out s "
He follows wuii a hnef . har.icter
sketch of Piesld. nl U ilsori. in whhh he
cnlls the Piesideiit "a brave opponent ()f
evil and abuses" and allude to him as
'actuated by a love for hi people and
pnssi.s.ed of the will n lead them to t lio
height of Ids ideil after they had gut
lulu the swamp land. Germany shuilld
be ashamed of people wno slander him
because the) have lead r.ilumnv in
new sp ipi rs "
"Dare We measiiie' hv Ine SM' .1.11. 1 of
a student's squabble the complaint of a
gieat, ftcc nation, h-d by a man of the
weight and liiipoitance of Preineiit Wil
son "' nsks the Wllter "If l'jrshletlt
Wilson m'lei ihoiough investigation I
unviiired that vvuillke acts of Geimany
have broken tin- law of humanity it was
not only Ids right nut it was hls duty tn
talk with ileaines. Mr owes thls'nol
only as a duty to himself but lo us."
Turning to the position of Chancillor
von llcihnt.inii-llnllw) u In the pnsent
eontruv rrsy Hrn Harden says:
"Ihe dining of the Chancellor
must
not nppiiixlmatc that of a submarine
I'liiiiniatidi'r."
Heir Harden next turn hi guns nti
Men von He)l,'hianil, Consei vatlve
hailei In the llelclistag, because of his
ultack on Aineilcn in routiei-tion vviih
the Sussex note, charaiierlzlnir the at.
tack
soriowful iibuse, In which there
Is not a glimmer of statesinanshli
in alluding to He,-,- Von Heydehrand's
atseitlou that America stood In close
counecllon with l.ngland before the war,
Heir Huiden s.ints nut that Herman)
also stum! so with Italy, .ussla, Japan
Poitugal arid Kngland. Il.ri vuu llevdn.
brand's assetilon ih.it Ameilca was at
Hist secretly and then upeuly on ihe ndt.
of Germany's enetnle Men- Harden
cIhIius not t,, have hern' i.iove.l i,i i.
declares that Ameilca has
neutrality
never violated
It lonsldeis the
the rmti.,1 f'tal'
President Inclined to Take
Emperor's Word n to
Submarines
BI T ATTACKS OX SKA
MAY I'liOVE A BLOCK
Bern.storlT. Hopeful. Is Ex
pected to See Stale Sec
retary To-morrow.
XOT SATISFIED. IS
VASI11XUT0X FEKLIXG
U eslliN-.Tos-. May C. Pie'ldeni WIN
son has derided to niTcpt Gcrtnatiy't
leply a a compliance with h. ilemanl
that the so-called illegal method of
submarine warfate be abandoned. The
danger of a diplomatic bteal; Is authori
tatively ilesirlb'd a p.lr.t. at least for
Hie present
'I'l Ill.'ial text of Hie i(iiuaii no'e
wa de.oded and laid h.-fnn. H,e pie.-;,
dent to-day l dlffel In lei pa tbul.1l
essential fiom the text wh!. n no hed
lure yesterday It will be iniisalete-d It
Tite-day' Cabin.: nifetliig. ,m, ,. t
Pi.ib.ible that Secn-taiy l.aiis.iig w.U
ooii begin work on a brief tip:
The general lutpiessioti in otll. nit it
I'lc I that President WIIon vv ,11 .Prc.-t
Secretary Lin-lug to prep.ii anothiT
note in Geimany sell ng foitli Hi- grali-
llcitloit of th- I'niti-d Stale ti icatn
I that the lmpeii.il Government I, as .dna
j doned it present methods of s,d,inai,no
warfare and expiessmg the .-oiilhlrn s
! that tiie new onlcr to submarine coin
I inaiiib is will he mipiilouly observed.
At the sain,, tune. It is
general t-f-iene. will b.
the purpose of the I'nlted
expected. .1
made as to
States to si:-i
seas I not
This will hu.
thai ihe fn-nloni of th..
violated from any quarter
it is ..ltd, the only refen
lice to any
later anion which thl Out, eminent may
take with legard to Ih- llrltlsh bio. ha b.
Pleslili-iit Wilson w.ll stand firm .n
his iiu.t. tdiori not to discuss ii. ;ipf , rs
of one belugelellt Willi .neither liu
idea. It is Understood, is to sefh d.pl'i.
inatic piobieiiij witli Gieat llrita n w a
the lit itis.,, p'onign inn,,. ;,,) . . n
tile Wllllehllsliass,
The l.'n-sldei.t am) III ,,Hi ai n,j
vtsi-is take the view that Germany's
new unleis :o submarine cnu matiilers
meet Wllion'b demand that tiie Imperii!
(iovern-iieiit "ib-elari " an nb.,1 doom, nt
of Illegal siiluu.ii ine warfai i'he Pie..
Ideiifs demand thai Geiuiatr,
fe. !" this abandonment I
whkh only ihe future can torn.
many s g l f.uti, ,,i i.inynig
new oidei 'o a cenaln cxtei
on mat. nd n.e I i.ite.l St.ce
lllllt w III Judge lis lesuils
, ., ,.f-in.-rhnig
I Gir-
o,l the
pia ed
'e.ve'l,.
Will n delect llcil.
The Picsident ir.i ''. ally ui.nle up ..n
nund not to n.je, i be ij,. riii.o ,v,iu,i
as -ooii ,,s he ie.,, h.. unolhci.ii rcph
Ilowcvei. it would be a mistake to a,
sum- thai the f'te.nleiit . picasp,! with
the slat. is of the nib,,, irln- rcph.. or to
leel .otiihlrnt tli.tt Ihe Gil man i ute ha.
leal!) settled the . i lima line .onuover v
Hill
be N
B",ng tn lake he German
prutn.se a' it. far,, value alld tins' th.l
th,. filmiiirln u.u to nun-, ,,n bat in
aciuall) will '.. eliminated.
The Pie. id.-t was dls.igre. ahlv tnr
prised to-day to re, .v nilbuel new- ..'
the itit.iek by stibmar. nes on four si(,,in
is The. Viiii'ilcan I'nnsul-iiener.il. Mr
Skim ,-r, reported this from W n.lon nr. I
tne State Department forthwith s, n .1.
message .. the Whit.- House
A.iordlng to this leport tbe
school, i-r llern.nlelt w.i nmk bv
manii" l'a) miles fi-oin land. I
I ! I'll
.1 .-.'I'
.r
ihe , rew have been pul.e-d up by I i
Twenty-six are still adrift, and their fat.;
unknown so fai as h known heie
There are no .ulviics as t.. whether
anv Americans weie on bo ml
The Hrltish "teatiur Itu linn also w:
'sunk by a submarine. VII detajs r,
lacking, even the place where the utt.nl.
occurred The llrltlch steamer i-i,,,,
Macl-'addeii wai d .mageil by ., subnia-
rine .n 'he Hay of Hi, ay and the 'o; -1
wegiau ship Mat wa,. sHt on Hie by
submiirltie on May 2
' The. fact ale hi ought up he; e it
iioniie tlon with the Pn... dent's altitude.
It was stated 'mphatlc-illy at the Sta'
' Department this afternoon that th
1 Plilted Slates would nut i onstdi r Grr-
inany's dec'.aiatluii effect txe until tint,
I has b.en granted for ordc- t.j be issued
to nl! submarine conituaiiil. rs Th"
I'nlted State- ha- insisted that the new
, order must I ffectiv,. immediateK
(onseiiuentl) the i, poit of Mr Skinner
I ha errand an unfavorable impression
. It I probable that an Investigation w 111
i a usual, he beg in.
i llowrver. it is known lore that t'-s
President .s nm pleased at th,, oinhmk
i of having to Investigate further stibuin
I rlim attacks which app ar tn bn illegal
1 before he ha eveui had time to stiidv 'h
Mierinan pledge to eliminate them
i Ihe most sennin ot Ihe lour a,:e. . .
I1"""1 ''"it of the Ibrnadctt Here
1 """ P"lbtlily of loss of non-cniiibata'"
1 lives, and m this rase il is evd nt tlia
no provision was made for the s.Cety uf
I those on ho ml. In none of t'.ie e'ae i
there an) In. I. cation that the "pr'nclp'r i
of visit and search ' w. re in rled mil
Tin- reference ;n the German note i
1 Geimany ' desiie for pen ,s has in,
piessed the Preshle'ii, but ha not caused
him to build , astles ri the mr
I The Piesident, it, is i stilaiued, know 1
jthat liiniiany has itrsued pean- on her
iiwn term -for mnntiis pa.t
The obstacl,. to peace at present is ,
garded here a more r e. mdepeinli"-
ol i iei'uia ny's winic n , .nu-s ttom th.j
lac that the Hutetiie lie ne uowI'
Itig lo isciis peace ,i ,, n,m in w(
liuoruii'ii quarters i s in neve, iin inn r.
tavninble leiins wh" ll Gerioai v -un I
uffer would be nimmailly rejeele t ,
every capital of the Knteuie Povvei it
I
