REAL ESTATE FOR SALE, TO
LET, EXCHANGE OR WANTED
Situations, Help Wanted and Other
Wants, See Section Seven
ALL S0R1 !!F ADS FOR
All bOKTS OF PEOPLE
See Times-!):'-, ??}, Want Pages foe a
Service 'ji Vncquatled Value
>6th YEAR
volume: oo
MMIIIOIl 12
CLOUDY
PRICE, FIVE CENTS.
RICHMOND, VA? SUNDAY, MAY 7, 1916.?SIXTY PAGES
ATTACK IS MADE
IN VILLA BANDITS
BY HOWZE'S MEN
l'orty-two Mexicans Killed,
and Number Are
Wounded.
NO AMERICAN CASUALTIES.
ACCORDING TO PERSHING
Outlaws Completely Surprised
While Encamped in Huts
of Ojo-Azules.
I \CH OX!*' SHIFTS FOH 8KLF
to "War Department Says,
"Consider This Brilliant
JMece of Work."
Carranza Approves
All But Minor Points
ICI. I'AMI. TKX.. Mu> II.?Klrnt
l liief l nrriin/.ii neiil ii inrKiinK* to
liciifrnl \hnrii Olirennii to-nltelit In
to mil hi; tlie Mrtlrnn Mlnlntcr of
~\%ar tlmt lip linil found Ihr nj?rcr
? inenl ?tlli llie I nltrd Stntfi nntlft
fai'tiirj, T*ltli the exception of n few
minor poliiln. II I* lion lirllrvrrl
thill flu* flrinl ciinfrrpncf trill lit?
hold to-morrow, nlirn the protocol
will tir aliened. I.pnrml .Inclnlo
Treilnu. I'linimnnilrr of the Depart
ment of the Niirlhrsiil of Mfili'n, ilf
parted for lil* lioinr In Torreon to
night.
i i ka i >q i' a n*r k rt s. nkar
naSjuji.-iiw. m ay '"> i by wireless to
' 'lumbllf-. N" M i A full squadron of
men of ? he i;i. \ctilh Cavalry sur
,? r^^? I and routed a much larger force
?j{ Vtl.la handltM at Ojo-Azulcts seventeen
miles t-'Aith nf 1'iislhuirachie. early yes
terday. Forty-two Mexicans were
killed and n number wounded. There
were no American casualties.
The American command, under
Major Robert T,. Howze. had lieen pur
suing the bandits under General Cruz
MotniiiRUe/. and Julio Acosta for sev
eral days, when they encountered them
encamped in the huddled adobe huts
'?f Azulej..
The Mexicans were completely sur
prised. and sprang from their pallets,
half-dotbed. After Jlriiig a few wild
i hots, i! > y I'f-can a tlipht. each man
? '11ft?:^ir f? ? i* hi.- own* safety. Some of
then were .tl>!e to teize their horses.
>-.m1;. jaded from a liar-l da> s ride
.?I ??viously, but others tied into the
ills afoot.
Major llowze reported be was s'lllj
tsuIiik the scattered remnant of the j
.and. which i" the largest remaining
i-.der the Villa standard It Is believed i
'iie hand is (he same as lliat defeated (
? T'-:iif'"-ln. on April 2U by Colonel!
t> dirt's command.
Kurther reports from Major llowze]
? .? t < d that General Antonio Angeles!
w ?s killed. He was a relative of
;ie Angeles, the former confidant of;
villa, who was once mentioned for the
<* ' . sidency of Mexico, and who is now'
? ;'itr near Kl fa so.
?MtMIIM.'- IlKI'OUT
KOItWAlt HV ITXSTIIV!
'.VASIll.VOTOX. May r. i; en era !
< rshinc's report, foi warded hy General i
'"li-islon to the War department to-day
4ii ys the latest attack on the Villa
is .dits was made hy his small forro
? fter a nisrht march of thirty-six miles
rhe test of General Pershing's report
.ted at San Antonio, in Mexico, fol
'uW!::
"A band of 110 Vi11 istas that attacked
j " iiranza garrison yesterday at Ojo- j
\ /.tiles remained there In eninp last
?sht. I.eaders of hand: Cruz Do
ningucz. .1 nllo Acosta and Antonio
\nirelcR. This morning they were
[?-nek by Major llowze with six troops,
i: ? venth Cavalry, and completely sur
prised. Forty-two killed, actually
5 Minted. Number wounded unknown,
i.ut must be many. Several prisoners,
l-.,> sevent.v-flve ponies and mules. I
our cavalry rode them down and killed
nniiy. using pistols. Fight lasted two'
louts, men being pursued as Individuals
iitn difficult mountains. Five Car
nzistas, condemned to be shot, were
a k en and released. We have no
asualtics. Mowzo left here 8:30 last
icht, marched thirty-six miles and
cached fijo-Azules at daylight. Con
idor this a brilliant piece of work,
cher cavalry detachments of this com
iini are. now operating in the several
istricts."
,l? OCCASION" TO IILH'OMK
IJYCITKO OVKH TIIR 1)101,AY
1 -t. PASO. TKX AS, May 6.?Conclu
..ii of negotiations for co-operative
Hon by American and Mexican
,?>ps In Mexico still awaited to-night
? neral Carranza's formal indorsement
' the tentative agreement drawn up
.v Generals Scott and Obregon.
The next conference will be held in
? .1 Paso as soon as General Carranza
iia-i been honrd from.
In the meantime, it is pointed out,
hat there is no occasion to become ex
it, it over the delay.
The Alvnrado Mining and Milling
??onipany and the l.a Rourpillla Com
.any. which operate in the neighbor- j
'Continued on Fourth Page.) j
snrml the Minnner on the CltrNiipeake und
1 Ohio Hallway.
Summer folders, with list of Mountain \
and SeHuldc resorts and suutmer honicu, can'
now be secured from ticket agents.
Scenes in Final Presentation of Shakespeare Pageant at Westhampton
Queen Elizabeth (Mrs. John Skelton Williams) in royal procession.
<v?-.rv ? ? "T"? 1 7_" -/ 1 f* -vO?.?
t^ue?*n hliahetli (.Mrs. .lohn Skelton Williams) and her train.
THRONG OF 8,000 PEOPLE
VIEW CLOSE OF PAGEANT
(?lories of Shakespeare's Day Fit
tingly Portrayed on Green
at Westhampton.
HIGH PRAISK FOR PROMOTERS
President Hoatwrijiht, of Richmond
College, Who Takes Part of
Shakespeare, Kvpresses Thanks to
.Miss Orie 1?. Hateher, Director.
With clear blue skies arched over a
throng of 8,000 visitors and players,
whose thoughts for the moment car
ried far back over the three intervening j
centuries to t lie glorious Elizabethan
era in English history and literature, |
tiie immense pageant, Kiven on the'
grounds of Kichinond College, at West-|
hatnpton. in commemoration of ihe ter-|
centennial of the death of William .
Shakespeare. closed yesterday after-1
noon with a brilliant dance at Hamp
ton Court. |
Speeding over the level stretches of
highway in high-power automobiles,
not the least Elizabethan! in their char
acter, or traveling in cars propelled by
a fluid that belonged only to the skies
in the day of the great English poet
drainatist, the college campus, trans
formed for th>e time into a miniature
Eondou and Stratford-on-Avon, with:
their famous theaters and taverns and
far-reaching forests of Arden. was be
sieged from the early afternoon umi
the spectacle came to an end at tj:SO
o'clock with iin overflow crowd, come I
to do honor to the neatest literary]
light of their race.
The weather was ideal. A May sun I
shone from a sky In which there was!
not the. shadow of a cloud. "The win-J
tor of our discontent," manifested by|
a downpour of rain on the tirst day of,
the pageant, had given way to "glori- j
ous spring," and the holiday crowds
watched with an interest, unabated by
storm or accident, such a passing show
as is seen once in a generation.
SIXCKSSKUI, H10VOMl
lOXI'RCTATIOX OK I'ttO.tlOTGRS
Carried out to tho last number on
the program, the pageant, despite bad
weather on the initial day, was suc
cessful even beyond the expectations of!
its promoters. Faithful work on the!
part of those in whose hands lay the!
working out of its details, faithful'
delineation, as far as possible, of tho!
day and the haunts of those who liavoj
made Elizabethan literature the delight I
of the language, excellent work on the!
part of those who made the pageant]
and a wonderful public Interest all con-;
spired to make it an event of more'
than passing importance in the historyi
of the community and State.
Dr. Hoatwright, president of Rich
mond College, and impersonator of!
Shakespeare in the pageant, issued the!
following statement last night:
"The pageant was a magnificent suc
cess. Miss Hatcher and her able co
adjutors deserve the thanks of our city
for a splendid spectacle and memora
ble literary revival. For two days they
have exhibited to us the. life and cus
toms of a golden age in English his
tory. All of us at Tvichmond College
are delighted to have been the hosts j
(Continued on Second rage,) 1
WARM PRAISE OF WILSON j
BY MAXIMILIAN HARDEN'
Exhaustive Defense of (lie President,;
His Policy and Kntire Ameri
can Standpoint.
"PROFI> IF IIK WKRK OIRS"
American Kvecutive Pointed To as
Mnn of High Moral and Spiritual
Character, Who Acts From Abso
lute Conviction.
BKRMN, May r> (via Lundon, May'
?>).?After figuratively taking the pub
lic's breath away two weeks ago by I
| a daring article captioned "if I "Weroj
j Wilson,'1 Maximilian Harden to-day re-j
| turns to an exhaustive defense of Presi
dent Wilson, his, policy and the entire!
American standpoint.
| In a leader in the Zukunft entitled
: "The Iteal Wilson." Heir Harden
I praises President Wilson as "a man
i of high moral and high spiritual char-;
acter. of whom wo might be proud if i
'he were ours." What the writer char
I ... ? ...
notarizes as "lazy ignorance is repre-i
I sen ted as "shattering from the mantle;
| of would-be patriotism, which, in real-j
ity, has nothing in common with gen-;
I niiio patriotism, when President Wilson
I is* assailed as he frequently has been.''.
?'Ninety-nine ono-hnndredths of all,
the so-called war literature," Horrl
Harden continues, "should be sentj
where it belongs?to the paper mills?'
and the public should return to books'
from which a wlde-awako spirit speaks,!
including President Wilson's "The New
Freedom.' Then, perhaps, pure common'
sense will return to you and awaken!
you to the duty of respecting the dig-1
nity of foreign peoples."
Herr Harden follows with a brief!
character sketch of President Wilson,!
in which he calls the President "a brave!
opponent of evil and abuses," and
alludes to him as "actuated by a love j
for his people and possessed of the will'
to lead them to the heights of his ideals
after they had gotten into .the swamp
land."
"Germany," he adds. "should be |
ashamed of people who slander himj
because they have read calumny in j
newspapers." ;
In all his controversies with Ger
many, says Jlerr Harden, President
Wilson has acted from absolute con
viction. "Pare we measure by tho
standard of a students' squabble thei
complaints of a great free nation led
by a man of weight and importance of
President Wilson?" asks the writer.
"Tf President Wilson, after a thorough
investigation, is convinced that war
like acts of Germany have broken the
laws of humanity, it was not only his
right, but it was his duty, to talk j
with clearness. He owes this, not only
as a duty to himself, but to 11s."
Turning to the position of Chancellor!
von Kethmann-HoUweg in the present1
controversy, Herr Harden says:
"The daring of the Chancellor mxist
not approximate that of a submarinoj
commander."
Herr Harden next turns his guns ion j
Herr von Heydobrand. Conservative
leader in the Reichstag, because of his
attack on America in connection with
the Sussex note, characterizing the at
tack as "sorrowful abuse, in which
there is not a glimmer of statesman
1 blilp."
Major J>a\n;enco T. Price, ?o Arch
bishop Cranmer.
SPIRITEfl OFFENSIVE
RESUMED BY GERMANS
Paris Reports Bombardment of lln- ,
preeedented Violence in Vicinity j
of Hill 301.
FRENCH KVACUATE TRENCHES
Rut Tlieir Barrier Fire Halts Ad
vance, and Attacks to West and
Northwest of Position Checked.
Conditions Quiet in East.
r i
The Germans have resumed the
offensive in spirited fashion in th |
Verdun region.
Paris reports a hombardment of un-l
preeedented violence in the vicinity of
hill No. 304. northwest of the fortress,
by reason of which the French were
forced to evacuate some of their
trenches on the northern slope of the
bill. The Genuans. however, were, tin
able to advance because of the French
barrier ?? f tire, and were checked in
attacks to the west and northwest of
tho hill.
Berlin's account of the lighting north
west of Verdun describes it as pro
ceeding steadily for the Germans.
According to German headquarters,'
the French inet with something like
an aerial disaster when a. large num
ber of their captive balloons broke
loose in a sudden storm, juid fifteen of
them were captured bv the Germans. 1
Conditions arc comparatively quiet!
on the eastern front, the only operation!
of note being, reported by Vienna in'
the driving of the Russians from a!
wood to the southwest of Olyka.'
Activity also seems to have slackened I
on the Austro-1 talian front. The chief:
happening, according to the Vienna i
War Ofticc, was the expulsion of the
Italians from salient trenches near!
Luzerna.
Constantinople has reports of an up-i
rising in the Sudan, where the linamj
of Darfur, with a force of troops and:
8,000 camels. Is said to be march
ing against the British in the Northern!
Sudan, who are in retreat toward thei
Nile.
A successful Italian air raid on On-;
raz/.o, in ' Albania, is reported from |
Rome, and Vienna announces a similar j
attack by Austrian airmen on Avlona,
which is held by the Italians. Aus
trian aeroplanes also have conducted,
a destructive attack on Hrindisl, the'
machines on their return trip standing
firo from the Italian armored cruiser
Marco Polo.
VIOMSXT IIO.M n A It I) 11K X T
TO WKST OK MI01SI0 CO.VI'I.\ |:ICS
PARTS, May 6.?The otllcial statement
to-night reads:
"During the course of tho day the
bombardment continued to be very vio
lent to the west of the Metiue, prin
cipally In tbo region of hill 3"i and in
tho neighborhood of the H.iucourt
"""" (Continued on Fourth Page.)
King ?fames (Jeter Jones) nn<l Queen Anne (Mrs. George L. Street Jr.)
? Photon by l"o--tor.
Shakespeare nnd London Aldermen, headed by J. Taylor Klly.son.
N ?/ rS ?
.ecu Denies Lnarges
Made Against Britain
in German Note to U. S.
Minister of War Trade
Defends His Country's
Actions Against U. S.
and Other Neutrals.
| LONDON, May *>.? Declining to com
ment on I ho purely American-German
questions involved in the German reply
to the American note on submarine!
| warfare. Lord Robert Cecil, Minister of
War Trade and Parliamentary Under-j
| Secretary for Foreign Affairs, in behalf j
of the Foreign Ofiice, gave tho Associ-j
| ated I'ress to-day a statement dealing!
with the charges against Great Brit- j
ain and liennnny's avowed desire for!
pence. The statement follows:
"The reply of the German govern-!
inent to tlie American note of April L'O,!
respecting submarine warfare, is not i
a communication upon which any gen-:
eral comment can properly be made in j
this country, as the questions at issue!
concern the United Slates and Ger-1
many, and any interference by a third i
party would be presumptuous.
"Since, however, tho German note:
contains certain misstatements of fact j
respecting the actions of Great Britain,
the following observations may not he j
thought out of place: Tho German gov- i
eminent state that they have, so far',
as is possible, instituted a far-reach
ing restraint upon the use of the sub- i
marine weapon solely in consideration j
of neutral interests, and in spite of thei
fart that these restrictions were neces-?
sarily of advantage to Germany's one- j
mtcH.
"It Is alleged that no such consldera- j
tion over has been shown to neutrnls
by Great Britain and her allies.
"Do tho facts bear out these asser- j
tions? So far as is known, the meas- I
\ires taken by Great Britain against
German trade have cost no neutral life, j
Great Britain maintains that they aro'
in accord with the principles of inter- j
national law, and Is prepared to make'
good that claim. They can surely coin- |
pare favorably, so far as consideration i
to neutrals is concerned, with a policy]
whose fruits are seen In the tragedies
of the Lusltanla. the Arabic and tho
Sussex.
CKIOIAV 1*1.10A IIASI01)
ON I'AI-Si: STATKSIKNTS
"Tho Germans maintain that it was
owing to the illegal conduct of the
British warfare that Germany was
forced to resort to her submarine cam
paign. This is not the tlrsl time that
the Germans have attempted to Justify
their submarine warfare on the ground
that it is a measure of reprisal against
the action of the British government
in cutting off supplies from Germany.
The following list of incidents, iu
chronological order, should suffice to j
dispose of this plea:
"September. 1011?Dutch vessel. Maria, i
from California for Dublin anil Belfast, I
with c-uro of grain Cor tho civil popula-]
lion, sunk by the German cruiser J
Karlsruhe.
"October -1>, 1JH?TIib Admiral Han
teaumc, with L'.noo unarmed refugees,
sunk by a German submarine.
"December, 1!'14?Admiral von Tlr
pitz foreshadowed adoption of subma
rine campaign.
"January IT, 1 ? I ."i?American ship,
William P. Five, with wheat fionij
Seattle for Queenslown, sunk by Ger
man auxiliary cruiser ICronprlnz Wil
belm.
[Note.?The William P. Fryu was
sunk by the Prinz ICitel Friedrich, ac
cording to the records.)
"February -I. I'.'l j?I>eclaration by thej
German government of their intention
to institute a general submarine block-'
ade of Great Britain and Ireland, with
the avowed purpose of cutting off all
supplies from these islands. This
blockade was put into effect officially
February 1*. although, as a matter of
fact, a merchant ship had been sunk
by a German submarine at the end of
January.
PllKSKXT MKASI IIKS I'I T
INTO rOlUK IN MVIU H. 11115
"It was not until March 11. I1 r?. that
the present measures against German
trade were put Into forco by Great
Brituin. Ueforo the enforcement of
those measures the Germans had <le
stroyed cargoes of foodstuffs coming
to the civilian population of this coun
try, had declared their intention of in
stituting a system of submarine out
rages and had actually submarined
merchant vessels without warning.
"As for their pretended tenderness
for noncoinbatants, their slaughter of
old men, children, women and niils in
Belgium and Northern France, not to
speak of the unreported proceedings of
their honored allies in Armenia, for
ever prevents them from being heard
in such a cause.
"The German government speak of
many millions of women and children,
who, according to the avowed intention
of the British government, are to bo
starved, and who, by their sufferings
shall force the victorious armies of the
central powers into an ignominious
capitulation, in this connection, it is
interesting to remember that at the
beginning of last month 'he German
Chancellor made the following remarks
in the Kelchstag:
"'I can understand that in 1915 tho
enemy would not give up hope of starv
ing Germany, but 1 cannot understand
how cool heads can cling" to it after tho
experience of 11)15. Our enemies forgot
that, thanks to the organizing powers
of the whole nation, Germany h* equal
to the task of tho distribution of
(Continued on Second Page.)
Found to He Almost Identi
cal With Text Already
Published.
EXECUTIVE DISPLEASED
WITH LANGUAGE USED
Opinion Divided as to Whether
Answer to Note Is
Required.
DKCIRIO.V RKSTS WITH W1LSOX
Berlin Probably Will lie Given
Chance to Demonstrate Good
Faith of Assurances.
WASHINGTON". May 'The proba
bility that :i diplomatic break with
Harm any has born averted, at least
temporarily, was strengthened to-day,
when the official text of the German
note laid before President Wilson an<t
Secretary Lansing was found to be al
most. identical with the unofficial ver
sion published yesterday.
< UHclals had Indicated that should tha
official text bear out the unofficial ver
sion, they thought it improbable diplo
matic relations would have to be sev
ered. unless further attacks on mer
chant ships violated the new pledges.
Disappointment has been indicated,
however, over certain features of thn
German reply, and some high officials
believe that it at least cannot be ac
cept ed unconditionally.
? 'pinion as to whether the note ra
mi ires an answer seems divided. De
cision rest - with the President, who a?
far has not indicated to any one hl?
filial Judgment In the matter.
| It is entirely possible that no reply
i will be sent lor the present at least,
and that the President will maintain
complete sileuico for a time, allowing
Germany to dt-monstrate the good faith
of her intention to carry out the policy
indicated in her new orders to sub
j marine commanders.
: Although the President realizes that
j the promises given are the cardinal
! elements of the note, he Is understood
to be displeased over the language used
and the conditions apparently attached.
MIT TO snvr.lt HKLATlOXS AS
I.OMi AS OHO ICRS Alt K OHSGftVCD
Should the note bo accepted as satis
factory, and a reply sent, it is expected
to take the form of a notification t?
i Germany that the United States h
| decided not to sever diplomatic re
lations as lone; as the new submarine
orders remain effective and are ob
j served.
Secretary Lansing left to-night to
t spend the week-end at Annapolis, tak
ing with him an official copy of thu
i German note. He expects to have fully
digested its statements by the time of
his return on Monday.
Persons close to affairs at the Whits
House to-da\ described President Wil
I son as feeling he could not question
Germany's guod faith unless the decla
rations made by the. German govern
ment prove ineffective. The German
! ambassador. Count von Bornstorff, re
turned to Washington to-day from Xew
York. lie said lie did not intend to go
to the State Department, unless he
should be so instructed by Berlin, or
Secretary Lansing should invite him to
call.
officials would not he surprised, how
ever, if the ambassador should be in
structed to call upon Secretary Lansing
next week.
The official text of the German noto
was made public to-day by the State
Department." Ambassador Gerard In
transmitting the document, said he had
received oopi-s in both German and
Knglish, probably accounting for the
fact that the official and the unofficial
versions are so nearly identical.
VI Til IvriMtHST API'AHK.vr
OV l'.DITOltlAI. OlMMOX
Much interest was apparent to-day
aiuottt. officials on editorial opinions
of the German note. Many of these
suggested the reply should be consid
ered satisfactory temporarily, pending
the result of Germany's promise "to
do its utmost to confine operations
of the war for the .'est of its dura
tion to the lighting forces of the bel
ligerents." Others suggested that a
diplomatic break would bo advisable.
They pointed particularly to the ap
parent tendency of Germany to quali
fy the submarine assurances by con
ditions concerning the conduct of
British naval warfare.
SPECIAL RULE PRESENTED
fulls for Immediate Consideration In
Ilonne of <;fn?? Hurul Credits
Kilt.
WASHINGTON. May r,.?The House
Rules Committee to-day presented a
special rule for immediate considera
tion of the Glass rural credits bill,
establishing a chain of land mortgage
banks along the lines of the Federal
reserve bank system, and designed by
House leaders to straighten out dif
ferences with Senate legislation on th?
subject in eonft rence. The bill will
have the right of way over everything
except the arm> increase bill, which
probably will he disposed of oil Mon
day. its consideration may take A
week.
