4l.U.
4
"WEATHER FOI&CASf :,
Cloudy Tonight and Monday
(Full Report on Page Two.)
Sunday Evening
Edition
NTJMSEB 8893.
WASHINGTON, SUNDAY EVENING, MAY 7, 1916.
JPBIOE ONE CENT.
BANDITS RAID U. S. TOWNS
v
V
KILL
WILSON
UNDECIDED
U-BOAT, SPENDS
E
May Answer German Communi
action or Simply Await De
velopments. REPORTS .ARE DISQUIETING
Incomplete Information Regard
ing' Torpedoing of Four Ves
. .sels Worries Officials.
The submarine controversy bet-ween
the United SUte and Germany, which
raa precipitated a year ago today by
theslnkin of the Lusitania. remalna at
standstill.
President Wilson did Tiot go to
fchurch today, but remained In hla study
to give further consideration to the
German reply, the official text of
Which he had before him today.
Whether any reply will be made to the
note or whether the President will wait
and give Germany a chance In actual
practice to demonstrate the good, faith
of her recent pledge remain unda
oldd.f t
Reports from Consul derieral 8klnnef
at London of submarine 'attacks on four
vessels had a dlsqulotlng effect Mr.
Skinner's report did not contain suffi
cient facts-to show whether nhff'sat-.
tacka were Justified or whether they
were In contravention of the new
pledges Riven bv Germany.
French Schooner Sunk.
The most important of these reported
submarine attacks was the sinking of
the French schooner Bernadetto. The
cfew was ordered to tnln to the boats
and twenty-seven were reported to bo
till adrift It wns not stated .whether
any Americans were aboard. The Prcs
idVnt will wait for further details be
fore taking action.
With tho submarine Issue in status
ouu Deaco talk continue today.
The first Intimation that neaco Is In
inn ir wa a jjMiajtrai'll m inn urnri .
of the Gey.nan reply to President WU-1
ron. This was accepted 4ot only here,
cut Afiroau. as an indicator, that uer
many was otprewjng Its hope to the
worts through President Wilson for a
cessalon of hostilities. "-1
The white House continued its retic
ence concerning the reported neace mis-'
elon of Mgr. Bonzano, apostolic dele
gate in wasningion, wno leu a com
munication from the Pope for the Presi
dent. The position the President has con
sistently maintained Is that he will take
no step toward mediation In the war un
less some power requests that he do so.
Whether the President will consider the
peace paragraph of the German note
as an Invitation for mediation Is a mat
ter concerning which no announcement
has been made.
Lansing Baek Tomorrow.
(Secretary Lansing will return to
Washington from Annapolis tomorrow,
and. It is expected he will give the Pres
ident his views as to the next step that
should be taken In the submarine Issue.
In the absence of any definite an
nouncement either from the White
Houa or State Department, the
opinion prevails that the President
will accept Germany's new submarine
orders at their face value, pay no
attention whatever to tho suggestion
that the United States should bring
nreat Britain to time, and let time de
termine whether Be.rIn will live up to
her promises and maintain friendly
relations, or break her promise and
bring about a severance or diplomatic
relations.
To Serve 25 Years
For Night of Liberty
Actqr-Burglar, To Be Paroled in
Eleven Months, Escapes
Gtiards.
PITTSBURGH, Pa May 7. Harold
Enfield, of London, soldier of fortune
and actor, now will have to servo twenty-five
years In the Western penitentiary'
for one night's liberty. He escaped from
the new State prison, Rock View, Center
county, last Wednesday.
He' was sentenced In the Allegheny
county courts in 1911 to serve a term of
six to twenty-five years for a series of
burglaries In this city. He was sent
from the Western penitentiary to the
Hock View prison. He got away from
the guards at the Center tounty .prison,
and was recaptured the next day. The
night of his escape, he robbed a farm
house of clothing Jorillsgulse himself.
After his recapture he was brought to
the Western Pententlary, where he will
be required to serve the maximum of his
sentence. He would have been paroled
in eleven months.
Evening Excursions Steamers for
charttr Majtttlc, 7M Capacity, Fridays.
OraUtud. MO capacity, dally. For ratft, &c
apply Fotomao A Chcaapcake Steamboat Co.,
ltd fit. Wharf, southwest. Advt,
DM STUDYING
NOT
TROOPERS
Lusitania Sank With
HumanCar goof 1,200
One Year Ago Today
Mists of Time Have Tempered Rage at Destruction of
Giant Cunarder, But Controversy With Germany
Over "Incident" Still Is Unsettled.
Twelve months ago today the giant Cunarder, Lusitania, queen of
the seven seas, and premier merchant prize, -went to her death off Old
Head of Kinsale, Ireland.
With her sank nearly 1,200 men, women, and children.
But to the world at large today the same world which a year ago
recoiled in rage at the destruction of the liner the sinking of the
Lusitania has been tempered by the mists of time.
The Irish sea has not given up its unrecovered dead
to keep alive the terror, and upon the hundred and forty graves
in old Quecnstown's cemetery where the unidsntifled of Lusitania He,
the sod is undisturbed. And the historical fact itself has gone to take
its place as "an incident" in that long exchange of international notes
kown to current diplomacy as "The Submarine Warfare Controversy."
Also, strangely enough and practically upon the eve of the anni
versary has come Germany's latest reply in that controversy, directed
to its climax of April 18, when President Wilson delivered his ulti
matum to Congress, in joint session, that attacks without warning
upon unarmed merchantment must cease.
The reply from Germany, which may or may not end the kind of
warfare which sent the 1,200 to the green-sea eraves iust a vear ac6.
according to widely divergent opinlorts It has provoked, is undeniably
the outcome of the Lusitania horror more than any of the other "inci
dents", which caused the "controversy.''
That fact, and the grizzly death roll of the famous queen of the
seas, "an audacious experiment in maritime architecture," and the
fastest craft that ever bridged the Atlantic, must forever accord to the
torpedoing of the Lusitania, first place on all chronicles of disasters
at sea.
LAUGHED WARNINGS TO SCORN.
Mid-afternoon, May 7, 1315.
The great Lusitania, nn ocean away
from her New York docks, where Cap-
tain Turner had laughed to scora the
warnings of tho German government,
plowed through a placid sunlit sa.
Eight miles away lay the rock-bound
Irish coast, and soon the nu Head of
Kinsale, which has for decades wel-comedlrans-Atlantlc
passenger sh'ps to
theTii world, would peep abovelthe dis
Steamer Venezia Escapes After
Being Fired Upon by Sub
marine. '
NEW YORK, May 7. The steamship
Venezia. of the Fabre line, arrived here
today after helng chased and fired upon
by a German commerce destroyer.
The Venezia made her escape because
she wan In ballast, and by putting on
a full head of steam was ablo to out
distance her enemy.
Her comander, Captain Boniface, re
fused today to discuss tho pursuit of his
vfMKl. but members' of the crew de
scribe the attack as having taken place
off tho Azores. .
The strange vessel flew no flag. As
sho crept up on the Venezia and re
fused to answer any signals the captain
became suplclous and ordered Increased
speeo.
Probes Death Of
' Baltimore Builder
BALTIMORE, May 7. Determined
to clear up the mystery that surrounds
the death of John B. Kelley, the build
er and contractor, who was found yes
terday In an ejevator shaft, Deputy
Marshal Dlehlmann Is running down
clews discovered by Coroner Insley
yesterday.
The suspicions of the coroner and the
marshal were aroused by the story of
Chat leg Randal). Mr. Kelley's office boy
who said he heard some one enter the
place.
Two theories of foul play have been
auvanced. Some think that ho was de
liberately pushed Into tin shaft, while
the other theory Is that he fell in while
struggling with a thief.
Mr. Kelley Is survived by a widow,
three sons, and four daughters.
An inquest will be held tomorrow
night.
PAnnr iiiirn niiuo mn nnnrrvn mm-m
rHDItt LINER KUI1051K KUbtK 5 0I5ILK
MY FROM U-BOAT BIGS PLEA HERE
tant horixon. with Cork harbor six miles
to the northward' of it.
Fresh In the passengers' minds was
the remark of the captain made to Al
fred a. Vandcrbllt Just before the liner
had warned from her .New York berth
to begin her perilous voage. Ho had
said:
"Do you think all of these people
would have booked pnssage If they had
(Continued on Fourth Page )
Appeals for Brother Direct to
State Department and Brit
ish Ambassador.
Mrs. Acnes Newman, sister of Sir
Roger Casement, the Irish leader fac
ing trial on charges of treason, has nn
pealed to tho State Department and
British cmbassv to Intercede to save
her brother from the gallows.
Mrs. Newman came to Washington
vestrrdav afternoon with her attorney.
Michael Francis Dovle. of Philadelphia.
An appointment first was made with
Sir Cecil Snrmg'-Rlce. the British am
bassador. Attorney Doyle was In conference
with the ambassador for more than half
an hour. It Is understood Sir Cecil
aereed to communicate Mrs. Newman's
appeal to his home eovernment.
No request to tho United States for
direct Intercession was made, as It had
been made plain tho United States
could not act formally in behalf of a
man who was not an American clt.zent
Attornev Dovle had an extended con
ference with Frank L. Polk. Counselor
of the State Department, however, and
discussed the cruo or sir Roger Case
ment at length.
It Is suggested the State Department
mav Informally adviso Ambassador
Page at London to mnkn Inquiries of
tho British government ns to tho
charges against Sir Roger, and In this
way make known the fact that Mrs.
Newman and her attorney hao called
attention of the United States Govern
ment to the Cneomcnt case.
Mrs. Newman, whose homo is In Ire
land, has been visiting friends In Phila
delphia and New York. While In Wush
lngton,Mis. Newman and her attorney
,were guests of Cotter Brlile, member of
tho exclso commission, who accompanied
them to the British embassy.
It was part ot Mrs. Newman's plan
to seo President Wilson on bchair of
her brother. Previously she had written
tho President asking him to Intercede.
The President was not at the White
Houso In the afternoon when Mrs
man arrived, an this part of the plan
was given up, as Mrs. Newman had ar
ranged to return to Philadelphia last
night and could not remain over until
Monday to see the President.
SCORES OF PASTORS
JOIN IN 0
FOR SAVING
BABIES
Preach Sermons Pointing Out
Activities of Advocates of
Project Here.
EXHIBIT OPENS TOMORROW
Special sermons In scores of churches
this morning brought to the attention
of churchgoers the purposo of Baby
Week.
At Emmanuel Episcopal Chufch the
Rev, W. O. Roome, 'Jr., preached on
"Responsibilities of Parents," and at the
Evangelistic Lutheran Church the Rev.
Paul A. Mcnzel preached on "Child
Life."
Other sermons relating to the activ
ities of the child welfaro campaign
were as follows:
The Rev. C. H. Butler, at Columbia
Heights Lutheran, on "Parenthood and
Baby Welfare:" the Rev. L. A. Carter,
at Nash Momorlal Church, on "The
Care of Children;" the Rev. W. A. L.
Morton, at LltUo Ark Baptist Church,
on "The Care of Children;" the Rev.
W. H. Jernagln. at Mt. Carroel Ban-
Ust. on "FarnU jfevotlon:" the Rev. D.
a. wueman. at i.--- on
"The Baby. thoKaiion' Greatest A-
Af Ilia Tlnv 1TiiifmA nna Via...
Church of, SL John the Baptist, on
"Cleanliness Next to .Godliness;'' tho
Rev. John Van Bchalck. jr., Church of
Our Father, on "The Infant Jesus,"
and the Rev. A. C. Garner. Plymouth
Congregational, on "Rachel Weeping
For Her Children."
At the Eighth Street Temple yester
day, the Rev. Dr. Abram Simon, talked
on "Baby Welfare."
Others Touch on Campaign.
Many other pastors touched on some
phase ot the campaign In their sermons.
These included:
The Rev. nerbert Scott Smith, St.
.Margaret's; the Rev. John E. Brlggs,
Klfth Baptist; the Rev. C. C. McLean,
Douglas Memorial; the Rev. Clarence a.
Vincent, Mt. Pleasant Congregational;
tho Rev. a. E. Williams, Petworth
Methodist; the Rev. Paul R. Hlckok,
.Metropolitan Presbyterian, the Rev,
Samuel H. Grcene,a Calvary Baptist
Church.
Tomorrow Interest wll be principally
In the central exhibit, at Fifteenth and
F streets, where Mrs. Max West, at
11:30 o'clock, will talk on "Little Moth
ers' League."
The children of Neighborhood House
nil! give a demonstration ot Montes
sorrl work at 3 o'clock; at 4 o'clock
there will be a demonstration of little
mothers' work, under the 'auspices ot
the Diet Kitchen, and at 6 o clock chil
dren of the Urovcr Cleveland School
will gle a playlet, "Judith and Ariel."
Free Moving Pictures.
There also "will be free moving pic
tures In connection with the exhibit
at the Circle, Blue Mouse, and Dumbar
ton Theaters tomorrow. The portable
exhibit will be at tho store of House &
Hermann at 11 o'clock, at the Llndsry
settlement, Blagdcn alley, at 3 o'clock,
and at Friendship House at 8:30 o'clock.
Yesterday afternoon the exhibit at
Fifteenth and F streets, marking the
beginning ot Baby Week, was formally
opened with a talk by Commissioner
Louis Brownlow, He spoke of the im
portance to the District of child welfare
work.
Miss Julia Lathrop, of the Children's
Bureau, told how 1,600 cities through
out the country already have held Baby
Weeks. Many will bo held next year,
sho said, In Bmall towns and In rural
districts.
Miss Latbrop told how the death rate
In the District, hitherto high, had fall
en when Infant welfare work was
started.
Children of the WebBter School sang
a song written especially for baby week,
by Mrs. Max West, child expert of the
unuaren s uureau.
Children Give Playlet.
Brief addresses were made by Mrs.
West, by Mrs. Kato Waller Barrett, by
Mrs. A. Camlnetti, and by Dr. Paul
Johnson.
Children from tho Ecklngton school
gave a playlet. 'The Theft of Thistle
down." As general chairman of the committee
on exhibits Mrs. Giles Scott Rafter Is in
general chargo of tho big roomful of ex
hibits. Represented In the various booths are
the District of Columbia Congress of
Mothers, the parent-teacher associa
tions, tho Twentieth 'Century Club, the
Washington Diet Kitchen Association,
tho Day Nursery and Dispensary Asso
ciation, Women's Christian Temperance
Union, Children's Bureau, and other or
ganizations. In charge of the various booths are:
Mrs. S. K. Lamb, Congress of Mothers:
Miss E. L. Wheeler. Washington Diet
Kitchen Association: Mrs. Edwin 8ef-
ton, ot a booth showing the home with
fa u'V( aua a uuiluiuaB) UU Vli MU SIVA
KreM, pf the W. C. T. U. exhibit.
AND
DANIELS DIRECTS
BATTLESHIP AT SEA
WITH TELEPHONE
Marks New Epoch in Wireless
Communication by Talking
to New Hampshire.
TESTS A GREAT SUCCESS
For the first time In history, direct
communication by telephone with a bat
tleship under way at sea was main
tained by 'the Navy Department for sev
eral hour today.
Secretary of the Navy Daniels gave
orders direct by wireless telephone to
Captain Chandler of the battleship New
Hampshire at 10 o'clock this morning.
The New Hampshire waa ordered to
reach a point off Cape Henry at U
o'clock and then report Its position. This
order was carried out and" Captain
Chandler then was given additional
orders with Instructions to report his
position every hour.
The significance of the tesU Is that
this Is the first Ume in the world' his
tory that headquarters on land hara
been In constant communication by tele
phone with a ship at sea.
Aa a result of this test, plans will be
carried nut to mobilize the navy's com-
tniintrniinni at & moment's notice SO.Lm. nr
ithat In time or, war wo secretary oi
the Navy may direct the operations of
an American fleet by telephone from his
office In Warhlr.gton.
Tests Started Yesterday.
The tests' were Inaugurated at 4
o'clock yesterday afternoon when
Secretary Daniels gave orders by tele
phone to Captain Chandler, of the New
Hampshire, then anchored off the
capes, to get under way and prepare
for today's experiment for communi
cation between the department and
the vessel under way at sea.
At 10 o'clock tomorrow morning the
New Hampshire la under orders to go
up Chesapeake Bay aiid be off the
mouth of the Potomac! river at noon
to carry on the same tests with the
Naval Academy at Annapolis.
While the operations of the New
Hampshire were being conducted by
wireless telephone, the Navy Depart
ment was in communication with vail
its shore stations simultaneously by
telephone and telegraph.
Admiral Benson, chief of naval oper
ations, directed all the routine busi
ness qf tho navy today by telephone.
He was In constant communication
with stations on both coasts, on the
lakes and the gulf.
These tests will continue until 8
o'clock Monday morning. The tela
eranh communications, are belntr con
tacted by the Morse telegraph over
the telephone wires, the telegraph
messages being sent over the tele
phone wires at the same time that the'
wires are being used for telephonic
communication.
Company Officers Take Part.
Participating with Secretary Daniels
and ranking naval officers In the tests
tday were U. N. Bethell, senior Ice
president: J. J. Carty, chief englneor,
and other officers of the Amorlcan
Telephone and Telegraph Company,
which arranged the tests with , tho
Navy Department as a patriotic con
tribution to plans for naval prepared
ness. The Navy Department was on a war
basis during the tests. The communi
cations rooms were under guard, all
messages passed through the censor,
and other requirements of the Navy
necessary In time of war were adopted
During tho period of mobilization all
other means of communication between
the navy and lta stations will be sus
pended, and orders and Instructions of
all kinds will bo transmitted by telo
graph and telephone, both wireless and
wire.
Secretary Daniels, In thanking tho
telephone representatives for their pa
triotic (service, said he expected groat
things from this co-opetatlon for world
wide communication, and tho work now
under way by the navv consulting
board, aided by 3fi,000 engineers at their
disposal, to mobilize the Industries of
the coutry that could bo utilized as
arms of the navy In time of war.
RAIN-PROOF BASEBALL
PLANNED FOR N. Y.
Giant $10,000,000 Park Projected
For Theatrical District.
NEW YORK. May 7.-A giant $10.
000.000 basebaU park, with a -detachable
steel roof to bo used In case of rain.
Is being planned for tho heart of New
York's theatrical district.
A svndlcate of financiers pjan to buy
up two blocks at Fiftieth street and
Broadway, erect the slant steel building
capable of seating 3J.0Q0 people, and
use It to stage not onlv baseball games,
but other hippodrome events.
The scheme Is being fosteied bv P. S.
Moss, a theatrical promoter, who has
already approached Col. Jacob RuDpert
and Capt. J. L. Huston, owners of the
New York American League.
CAVALRYMEN GIVE
BATTLE TO RAIDERS:
are
DRIVEN TO HILLS
McKinney Springs Scene of Mexican Attack.
Tents of Soldiers Burned and Stores
Looted Posse and Troops to Pursue
Outlaws Across
An official report of the raid was made today to
the Treasury Department. It was transmitted to the
acting chief of staff.
EL PASO, Tex., May 7. Fifty Mexican bandits, be
lieved to be Villistas, crossed the American line at Boquillas,
south of Alpine, Tex., Friday night, practically wiped out
an American troop guard of nine men at McKinney Springs,
and burned the settlement.
They also raided Boquillas, Texr .
Tnree of the aead American soldiers were brought
early this morning to Marathon, Tex., east of here.
Unconfirmed reports say that several .citizens also were
killed by the raiders.
The bandits crossed the line near Boquillas, eluded the
small guard of American troops, reached the Ellis Woods
wax plant, near McKinney Springs, and began looting. The
American troops on guard gave battle and three of them
were killed.
A ten-year-old American boy, son of the owner of the
wax plant, was also killed.
The Mexicans looted the place of everything they
could take away and made their way back toward Mexico.
Peace officers at th'is point, which is the Brewster
county seat, are organizing a posse to go to" the scene of the
raid.
TROOPS SENT IN PURSUIT.
News of the raid was received by Gen. Frederick Fun
ston shortly before noon today from Maj. Oren B. Meyer,,
commanding a squadron of the, Fourteenth United States
Cavalry at Marfa.
General Funston has ordered Troop A, Fourteenth
Cavalry, to the scene from Alpine. The nine men; victims
of the bandits, belonged to this command and were on guard
at the wax plant when the raid took place.
According to Major Meyer, three of the men were killed,
four are missing, and' two are wounded. The three dead
men were brought to Marathon, Tex., this morning on mo
tor trucks. Americans are forming a posse at Alpine to go
south.
Two troopsof the Eighth Cavalry frbm Fort Bliss and
two troops of the Fourteenth from Fort Clark, were ordered
by General Funston to the scene of the trouble this morning.
Col. F. W. Schley, Fourteenth Cavalry, has been or
dered to take command.
TROOPERS DRIVEN OFF.
A man named Davis fled to the hills with his wife when
the attack was made and, by hiding out, the couple escaped
with their lives. The time of the attack is said to have been
10 o'clock on Friday night.
The same bandits, after leaving the Ellis wax plant,
raided a store conducted by a man named Deefmers, south
east of the wax plant, taking everything in the store.
Several of the buildings and the tents of the soldiers at'
the wax plant were, burned. The soldiers, after offering re
sistance, were driven back to the hills. ' There were only
about nine men in the soldier guard, a.11 members of Troop
A, Fourteenth Cavalry. f
The attack was made by about seventy-five Mexicans
on McKinney Springs. This is fifteen miles from Terlingua,
where a troop of cavalry is stationed. Glen Springs, a few
miles from the springs, is the station of nine soldiers. Lack
BOY
Border.
'I
.
s
If
tfli
