UNIVERSITY MISSOURIAN
EIGHTH YEAR
42 VJLLISTAS KILLED
BY U.S. INJHGHTRAID
American Cavalry in Daring
16-Wile Ride Surprise
Bandit's Men.
COLUMBIA, MISSOURI, SUNDAY, MAY 7, 1916
EIGHT PAGES.
NUMBER 214
HERE'S A THVMiEESS JOB
CARRANZISTAS HELP
i;
(
'Brilliant Work Will Go
Down in History," Says
General Funston.
v"
ti
J!v I nltwl Press.
VVAfHIXGTOX, May 0. Riding like
tends through the wild .Mexican coun
try at night. American troopers at Ojo
Azules Csterday routed IK Villista
raider-, in a two-hour fight. Thej kill
ed fort -two, wounded many, captur
ed some men, mules and ponies, and
came out uns-cratched.
Their ::C-mile ride through a strange
land will go down in cavalry history
as "a brilliant piece of work." in the
words of General Fnnston. Aboe the
more spectacular thought, looms th
fact that the battle showed the Car
ranzista soldiers and the United
States troopers to be actually working
together
The Carranzistas, encamped at Blue
Spring-, some sixty miles southwest
of Chihuahua City, had been attacked
Thursday night, General Funston's re
port this afternoon showed. Five of
their men had been taken. Major
Ho-er. with six troops of the Elev
enth Cat airy, set out at S:30 o'clock
in pursuit. At daylight they came up
on the sleeping Villista camp. Re oi
lers were drawn and the Americans
plunged into the enemy, totally sur
prising them The Villistas fought
and ran Aftr the struggle forty-two
dead were counted.
The Villistas spread out into the
mountain's with some of Major Hows-
er's men in pursuit. Five Carranzista
soldiers condemned to face the firing
squad were freed b the Americans.
Stranger Assumes Charge of a Ittina
vvni Horse.
Wanted: just a erbal expression
of thanks from the man who returned
to Fifth street and Broadway to find
the horse he had hitched there (no
one seemed to know how long be
fore) minus his harness, tied to a pole
up the alley, and the buggy, just a
little more dilapidated now than the
historical one-horse shay, curled
around a tree near the Gordon Ho
tel.
And thereon rests an episode.
Out of the calm of lower Broad
way yesterday afternoon, women and
children suddenly ran for shelter,
logs scattered and the guest at Co
lumbia's other hotel started from a
sleep at a window ten feet from the
splintering of a driverless buggy. Out
of the debris around the tree, came a
horse, with part of the harness hang
ing, his nostrils wide and his chest
heating. It was those last two the
nostrils and the chest that appealed
to the spectators, who hid behind trees
and in doorways.
One, however the one who now
wants the thanks, came to the res
cue. In about twenty minutes he had
corralled the runaway, and tied him
to the back of a heavy wagon, only to
have him start down the street again,
this time dragging a stranger's wag
on. Again he quelled the culprit and
tied him to the most substantial
looking of the telephone posts.
And so the action ended, and the
audience went away even to the chief
actor, who now deserves a little
thanks from the owner of the horse
and the shay, whom no one in the
icinity seemed to know.
JOURNALISM WEEK CHANCES FOR PEACE
HAS WIDER SCOPE BETTER, SAYS BERLIN
THE VVEVTHEI!
Ut.n.irt N.,,,.,1 ,(lira, Mnrnlnit)
tit i i.lm.,1,1 . 1 , .
t.ir ini . . ' ""ty: .ener.il i
nr mil eontluinil warm.
'lenerally fair .ma ion
I it Ml-.uiiri
tiaiieil warm
IS SET Br SIMPSON
Mratlier Conditions.
. ' '".' w"it!r iiuitliiue- mwtth-il aK.ns
;. i . ,. """. inn iirn.iitit.itmn. va-
Visitors Agree That It Is Big- American Circles in Germany '?'' i to'.V'lilJ'VvXn" TWr TnL- , ir 1 i-i 11
,n t , p ,x .. ... ,'1'1" "' tl.r oril. Atlantic an. North 1 JSer 1 akeS High HlirdlcS
ger and Better Than roint Out Conciliatory lMlt, "l-- 'mu 1 i, S 1 , - o , ,..
n,i ' ir- tM.. ..,,:.!'-,l!:..i,,..,!!r.!l'?.i'rivi'i, ln K 4o Seconds Mis-
1 icuclcmuu. a (-.times ui ioie. ,..;...,. " -' me cotton
souri HO, Visitors 47.
NEARLY 600 HERE CRISIS IS EXPECTED
24 States Represented in At- Allies Expect Turn in Th
Fortunes in Next
eir
tendance 10 Organiza
tions Meet.
Thirty Days.
u:meisvm:asem, ke.si'ii.n
.National League.
Boston 7. Xew York G.
Broklvn J. Philadelphia 2.
I indnnati 7. St. Loui J.
Chicago 2, Pittsburgh 1.
LONG RL'NS TO AMES
It was not only a better and a l!y United Press,
larger Journalism Week, but it was a BERLIN". May C. American circles
week broader in its scope than those pointed out here toda the importance
preceding. That was the sentiment of of the peace feature contained in Ger-
those who have attended the annual many 's reply to the American note
Viiierir.iu League.
New York ,", Boston 4.
Philadelphia -I. Washington I.
Cleveland 4, Chicago I.
St. Louis-Detroit, postponed.
Schultc's Men Win Both
Relay Races Corwin
a Surprise.
fit
Hh's VGUS1' -BOOK FEVS
k
Critic of Higher Education Writes to
President Hill.
The following letter was receied
esterday at the University :
lion lios Hill
Columba mo
I ear Sir We See & hear Some of
th tro'ihles Bout the funs to pay
Tea her- ,'v the fear that the Univer
it m.i go Bad I & some others arc
sore to hear of Such But the mases
Setii' to think there is & Extream
alon the Educational lines the peo
ple t.i'k of not voting for a Repre
sentative that Wont promis to fight
tlio Deviations & apropr'ations to so
manev normals & vetenary & agricul-
turel Grafts & Stope the Burden of
taxation to keep up so maney State
job hunters they think th farmers are
the capital Stock and when they are
Burdoned out of Existence the salred
mans capital stock is gon Bo that
s-tais at home on the farm with Sth or
10th grade will & dos tome nearer
making good than the Book feans the
farmer that doesnt know more than a
Book farmer dosent know anoughf to
,iiore water out of a gord this Bout th
waj peopl in S. E. mo look at it
NL II, INCREASE IS 510
Enrollment Figures for 1915-
16 Show Decided Gain
Over Preceding Year.
The enrollment of the University
during the last year increased 510
oer that of 1914-13. according to fig
ures just compiled for the new Uni
versity catalogue, which will be pub
lished soon Some divisions of the
University fell off, but the increase in
other divisions lias more than counter
balanced this.
The following table shows just how
event of the School of Journalism,
since Journalism Week was estab-
lished seven years ago.
Ten organizations met during the
week which came to a eloso Friday
night with the Made-in-America ban
and expressed the belief that Presi
dent Wilson jiow has a great oppor- I
tunity to bring the war to an early
end. .
Some persons even suggested that
the time was now ripe for Colonel
Vnicrirnn ssuri.it inn.
Toledo 12, Kansas City S.
Louisville 2, Minn apolis .1.
Indianopolis :!, St. Paul 4.
Columbus 3, Milwaukee 2.
quet. Merchants and business men ' use u rewsu me European capitals
from all parts of the state were in
attendance, seeming to show their
realization of the prominent part
plaved by the newspaper in the com
mercial world.
College Baseball.
Maroons ? Ohio State 7.
Illinois 4, .Northwestern 1.
including those not registering t.OU'tal of Europe. The activity being dis
persons were here at one time or an-, played by the Germans in improving
other during the five-das' session. their defense positions on botli the
Or, to give a clearer illustration of the .Eastern and Western front, as well
growth of the annual event. 20 per as ;n the Balkans, indicates that the
cent more persons attended than ever German general staff holds the same
before. opinion.
It is estimated that 200 newspaper
men and women were here. This does.
not include business men and other
visitors. 113 of whom came in a dele-'
gation from Xorth St. Louis.
And they came from all parts of
the nation. Twenty-four states were
represented. They came from Cali
fornia and Washington in the West,
Maine in the East, Minnesota in thelTvveiit) Afternoon Papers Form
Xorth and Louisiana in the South. j change News Association Here.
Another feature was the fact that' An exchange new association
War's Turning; Point Expetted.
LOXDOX, .May C Within the next
thirty days the Allies will mark the
turning point in the world war .....
The belief is now held in every capi- LhH UU N TlAM LTH
Missouri Boys Get a Scare
But Take Second From
Ames, 4-3.
l'le Asks U. S. to wtM War.
WASHIXGTOX, May C Monsignor
Bonseano, apostolic delegate, visited
Secretary Lansing today with a plea
from the Pope that the United States
avoid war with Germany.
SHAM. HUMES TO ('(MU'EK ITK
Ex-
Bob Simpson. .Missouri's hurdling
marvel, exceeded all expectations yes
terday on IioIIins Field in the Mis-;souri-Ames
meet when he clipped a
j fifth of a second from the world's
, record of 15 seconds in the 120-yard
high hurdles. He finished the meet
I with twenty points to his credit. In
cidentally .Missouri won, SO to 47.
( With the wind against him and aft
er capturing first place in the 100
ard dash, Simpson owned the right
jof way in the 120-ard hurdles and
without much etlort outraced his near
jest rival. Packer of Amis, and annex
ed another live points toward a Mis
souri victory.
Believes lUeord U ill Hold.
II. F. Schulte said that he believes
that tile record will hold, because it
comes up to all requirements. The
meaurement of the track is correct;
Simpson clean d each hurdle; three
watches caught him at 14 4-."i seconds,
and one watch caught him at 14 3-3
seconds, according to Schulte
The slowest time is alwavs taken.
ttj s-peiial Corrrspomlenie.
AMES, la, Ma.v C. Counting three
runs in the third inning and holdinc
Missouri scoreless until the sixth ses-,Tlle "'cial time will be decided by
sion. Ams trnve tho Timers n sr.-iro in officials of the Amateur Athletic Union.
a sensational game which the visitors
lunally won, 4 to :!. It was Missouri's
twelfth straight victory.
The Ames batsmen were all slug
ging today, making a total of twelve
hits. Three pitchers Tavlor, Bryant
and Giltner were used by Coach
Brewer, and they were all necessary
Besides winning the high hurdles
and the dash, Simpson won the 220
yard low hurdles and the broad jump
and helped Missouri win the half-mile
relay, cutting the Varsity record from
1 minute ::.! seconds, to 1 minute and
20z seconds.
Pace-setter Niiis Kace.
Corwin surprised even Schulte when
he won the SSO-yard run. He was en-
practically all of the speakers listed i wIlicl1 Ilas ueen contemplated by the
on the program were here. There pi'ssouri Associated Afternoon Xews-to stop the Iowa hitters, for in the
was occasion for little substitution. ' parers for the last year, wilj soon be ninth inning Ames' runners occupied
Among the organizations which met1"1 op ratlon- T!l-' association is com- t second and third with no one out. The tered only as a paie setter,
here was the Association of Com- ' osei1 of al)0Ut twenty of the smaller Tigers pulled out of the hole. j Missouri ran away from Ames in
mercial Organization Secretaries (lai,-v newspapers of Missouri. , The Missouri tallies came in pairs, i the mile relay. Xiedorp broke even
which held lUfirst annual convention' A ,lIan was a(JoPtC(1 at a meeting of , two, In the sixth and another brace in 'with his opponent; Eaton gained five
Thec meetings formed another illus- i'"--organization last rriuay aiienioou line eigntn. .vic.uiuan s oiuugeoji was .iius, ;,ui auueu iiueeii aris to
.jwneieuv each paper win Keep the responsible for two or tne marKers. j me nve-yani leau, ami iiaggy v;ii;tu
each division fell off or increased:
1314 1". 191 lfi
-"llf of Acrli ultnrp ir.' m:
rllo:.p of .rt and s Irnee I Vii Ll'is
silni.il f I'litniniTiv 1", lfi 1
s. JjmoI tf IMucatiuii r.ls r.-.s
S h.ntl ,if KniiM-erin 24J rWS
S h.inl of IciimmlNm 1K 11
s. I,.,.. f l..i nr. 1-Jl
s. !i...,i f M, in.. s x,
s. h i., ,.f Xtliii-s mil Mi'ttlhir-
v lit Hull 1 1 1'7! 207
.r i.Iii Hi- si lni.il 221 2S0
. I r. i!r ititi'i sIiht .Tune, i
1'iH T.'sT?) I
tration of the interest that rnmmer.
cial men are beginning to manifest in c'h,rs informed of news of special ,l)ippold touched the opposing pitcher
the work of the journalist.
The follow m
in.
I and stae importance that originates ' for three hits and Bumgarner came
organizations
their meetincs here
ers' Guild, Missouri
The half-mile relay was the pr't-
Simpson in finish-
in the immediate territor.v of the in- through with the same number. Mis- tiest race with perhaps the exception
"''I'l .... lilnnl ...nn.1..... 1n..l, ..in.... .. .11 l.n nAi.vl ..n..l .Tltv.nn. nlnl n.? ttnlo,l Ck 1 i 1. ll I .! llllfllTna
UlliUlllll llilillUUl?. F.UUI1 Uill'li WiH liC -UUIi ll. U llllllll IU.t-, luianu " uiv '.f..i .u.
. .oiiri writ- f(rnlllj ,t, a primed chart and map jnine hits and made two errors. Four ing went around the curvp, 220 yards.
Women s Press ,, .,. , . .. ., . . .. ..... ,i :.,,., -mc, i,. nit Tha Tit n.n.i i.:..
, . . . i lilU"llt llll' 1UI.II news 111 mill il'S Ul 'I'iiuis HLJt' Hiiuiwu ii.auii jiHit. t " ,i.. Aic xn.ki i..inui.i inn
Association. Association of Missouri ... , .., ., ... , , .. ,,.,,. ,a , t.n.
tiie iiiuus iJtiici, ua'ii jUfsa iiiiit- j iiir i mvi uj i ivm. o .ii . ...
Pit USES SPIKir OF .MISMU'HI '
Sigma Helta Chi Delegate (lives His
Impressions of 31. V.
Ralph II Henpe. Sigma Delta Chi
delegate from the Kansas State Agri
cultural College, wrote for the Ban
iuet Xews Friday:
"Columbia and the University of
Missouri will be two pleasant and de
lightful memories In the minds of
those college men who came to the
"Show Me"7 state to attend the national
convention of Sigma Delta Chi.
"Known from coast to coast as an
wstitution of merit and exceptionally
high standing, the University of Mis
souri not only fulfilled the highest
expectations of the visiting delegates
hut left upon- their minds an indelible
Impression of Missouri spirit and hos
pitalitv united to produc an institu
tion of efficiencv. exceptional stnnd
Ing and thoroughness."
Xi'f ri'Isiritiim sinie June. Ul"
In. re ie
I
MAY SEEK TEMTOKUiA BUIMHM.'
Mi
oiiri Union Committee At ill dopt
(Yiistitiitmu WfdiK'sdn.v.
Th" student committee appointed by
Student President E C. Mead to work
in conjunction with a committee of
alumni in establishing the Missouri
Union met last night to continue work
on the draft of the constitution.
It was definitely decided to wage the
campaign around the student building,
and the desirability of having a tem
porary building for use next year was
emphasized.
The committee expects to complete
the draft Wednesday night and pre
sent it at a joint meeting of the two
committees Saturday, May in.
Afternoon Dailies. Missouri Advertis
ing Clubs. Association of Past Presi
dents of the Missouri Press Associa
tion. Missouri Press Association. Mis-
411't.soun ollegiate Press Association. As-
10 . soeintinll nf Pnnimnrfinl nrTi ,ir,.ilw.i
Secretaries, Missouri Retail Clothiers'
Association and Sigma Delta Chi, na
tional journalistic fraternit.
They have gone now people m ev
ery phase of journalistic endeavor; in
fact, people from near every walk
in life and in the words of manv nil..,,
... ... , , - !ii.xir.i, Khi
and o'ner information. with Ames, 7 to 1.
The papers represented at the meet- i
Ing ,vere the Mexico Lodger, the Uni- uoiiM) 'I OI'ICIn T l.'OKs
vcrsity Missounan, thf Kirksvillt
mes showed best in the distances,
taking sixteen of the eighteen points
CHUKCHES TO 3IEET TOGETHER
Cenfenial of American Bible Sooietj
Will He Observed Tonight.
The centenial of the American Bible
Society will h? observed by the Pres
byterian. Christian, Baptist and Broad
wav Methodist churches by a union
service at S o'clock tonight in the Uni
versity Auditorium. The Rev. C. C.
Grimes of the Broadway Methodist
Church will speak on "The Bible as n
Factor in Our Civilization." and the
Rev T. W Young of the Baptist
Church on "The History of the Ameri
can Bible Society."
them, the '11 "be back next ear."
shah Democrat-Xews, the Indepen
dence Examiner and the Maryville
Tribune. Means of securing closer ad-vc-lis
ng co-cperation with each other
and v t!i the merchants of the va-'oas
tovips vi ere discussed.
.'RETS HIS UtSKM'I
KIMAN Pit VISES C.VHEI' COIM'.S
Regiment
Secretary of avj Sends Congratula
tions in Telegram.
The following telegram was receiv
ed at the Made-in-America Banquet
Friday evening from Josephus Dan-
Former Colonel sajs M. U,
Is -Best Ever."
"The University Cadet Corps thisliels. Secretarv of the Xavv
.vcar is the best I have ever seen it." t "Walter Williams, Dean of the
was the comment of J. Alfonso KH-1 school of Journalism, Universitv of
lan. who was graduated from the Col-1 Missouri: It had been my earnest
leee of Agriculture in 1914, and ho hope to be with you and take part in
was the cadet colonel for 1913-1914.
Mr. Kllian ha'd just finished reviewi
ng the regiment last Wednesday.
"If the cadets don't get into the
'distinguished institution' class this
year, they never will again," he con
tinued. "The corps is even better
than it was when I was colonel two
years ago, when we first made the
'distinguished' class."
Mr Kilian visited in Columbia dur
ing Journalism Week. He had been
traveling in Arkansas, and stopped
I'lIHOCClI in the mile and two-mile runs.
I Tl.n . ...
. ... . .. .. . .. . ... i iiv miiiiiii.I1':
Express, the Moberiy Index, the Mar- i nirnwaii tr.-m iinnomiii traces
Missouri Aallej I rip. liiini. k. Mlmri. sWi:' nt, i,, '.,;
An automobile trip from Chicago I "''ni. '"'"''. 1" 2-" sM..mi
to San Francisco, a steamer trip in, A r''y
Honolulu, a continuation of his auto-j '' '"' inlimtii 4: ."..". s,,.iiis.
mnl.iln trii. in Hiuiii nnit n return 1-"" J.ird liisrh Imnlles Mnipsuii. Mi
mobile trip in Hawaii and a return Mlllrli hn-ikln.' the nnrlil's rwonl,
trio bv the same route to Chicago 'In 14 4-." ml-: l'aikir. ampi, wond;
, , . . ,. , Nnlile. .Vines, tliinl.
all these were on a tour of Bradford , 4,,jri, rilI1w,n. viiss,It. ,.:
Foot, a Chicago man. who went M Uor, Aiih, mciiii1; Uitmi, Mltiiiurl,
, , , . . . . ,. ,i f mini. unit, ! i-. -tTniiti'.
through Columbia last night on his itu MswBr 124 f(Pt
vvav home. Mr. Foot said he reached l l ' In. lies; r.irtir. Ami's. hiuh1. ho
..., , .- . ., . f.s t 212 Inrli.'s. Hnliii.s .in.s. Iliiril,
Honolulu December 16 and sailed f.t n I1(lt.
from there February 2G. His automo-l foil- T.mlt Powell. Missouri, mm; 1'in
, ., , TT ,", ,. 'let. Missouri, iinl .Iniii'i. Alllls. lii-il for
bile bears a Honolulu license tag. js,;,i. n.iL-lit. ll feet a Indus.
"The part of the Missouri Valley I 220 vanl i.m linnllf sm,,-n. Missouri,
we have gone through in the last few'"-- ;;;'. An,.--. -"! m,. Ml-
days has afforded the nicest part of I .-.u-vanl ilili- ritih. Amw, won: Mi
...1 .-i .. t, i,i , ri. Vlissniiri, s.sinil: l:. nf. k. Vlisouri,
the trip, he said. 1 ,, TIlll( . a - cerD,u.
Mr. Foot has been two weeks on thej smi r.,r,i riiii-nmlii. Missouri, won;
..... fpnm cn CYinciscn here .Merrlim. Aims. Hfimil: lililer, .Missouri,
way from ban rrancisco nere. IinI ., lmi Illllllltes 4 .- v,wnils.
I Sliot lint Warren. Jlissouri. won. T.s
fet It in. lies. Holmes. .Viniw, ami llroTes,
Vlissonrl, tl.il for seeoml.
I Vlilc n li.v Missouri won nllli 40-yanI
Changes in Lineup of Columbia ?ine i-i.i. Milori. i:itmi. Wvatt. imcj run-
. t- n. 1 t ninff Time, a minutes VA 4-.. mioih!.
Annonnred lor Came Today. jum VUUw M,ssoiir nn(, Inr.
The Columbia Browns will play the rus. Ames, tint for flrt: Willi un, Mis.
Paris nine, in the second game on the ' ni'fi.mi'Ve.V'lo iU!""'-
Central Missouri League schedule, at xn mile run viiakte.It. Anw, on;
tlio Pnirirrniinils Pirk at 1 o'clock thsi I Willi 11ns. Am.-, swoml: i'onler. Mlsnnrl.
tile rairgroiuins 1 arK ai .. uuuu msi ,,r, 'iiuie. in nilnnlis. l", l-r. wiomls.
afternoon. There will be some ur,.i jump, simpson. Missouri, won. 22
.u,.... i (hn rnlnmhin linenn nc- f t " Imlies: l'ltt 1111, vilsourl, eiiml. 21
changes ln tne toiumoia lineup, ac fwt f .1(,1M. wuiiuns xnsouri,
cording to 3Ianagfr Morris. Simpson, , filnl. 20 fist s r.-l Indies.
a freshman in the University, will oe , 'ft,,"...,'! Ti'i'min1:
it.' V 1 . sitonus. i:reaKs .Missouri var
Itj ritonl.
the seventh annual Journalism Week
of the University of Missouri. I re
gret that the press of official duties
denies me the pleasure. The School
of Journalism of the University of
Missouri has a national reputation for
producing capable journalists. There
never was a day when the need was
greater for trained editors with a
sense of their responsibility. The
state that trains its editors best will
develop the best public opinion. Mis
sourians have to be shown. Editors
11I.OVV.VS TO 3IEET PVRIS HERE
I minlry Schools Get Attention.
Missourians are becoming more in
terested in their country schools. They
are beginning to see their importance
a"d to consider what can he done to
improve thrni. This is the decision of
R 11 t mberson, supervisor of the
boys' and girls' clubs, and member of
the faculty of the University of Mis
souri after attending community
meetings at Kingston and Gallatin re-
. wnuv -me meetings -were examples
ll Jf what wide-awake communities are
W T'oinj- in the interest of the schools.
ccord.ng to Mr. Emberson.
Chinese Tram Heats Westminster.
The Chinese University baseball
,' team of Honolulu defeated Westmins-
ster College at Fulton Friday afternoon
by a score of 10 to fi. Wet grounds
prevented the Chinese from meeting
the Tigers here last week.
V. O. Hlnmaii President.
A G. Hinman. of Oshkosh, Wis.. a
junior in the School of Journalism.
was elected president of the Missouri
Collegiate Press Association, which
met here Friday.
011 on nis way to his home in Blair,' of the right sort are better qualified , at first base, and Canterberry. also a ,.. - 1
iu, wnire ne win taKe up farming. I thnn nnv nthoro t 1,1-, thn nr -.lm.r- freshman in the University, will play
He is a second lieutenant in thi , t.on. m.i r.,i i,-, nihor m n-iin trill nlav '-.. r : ....-..i. n...i :.. -r 1
. un.,1 uiiiwut s. ?.... mi .....s. u.v. ...s,. -, 11 isi-irii-ni irrii-.ii-, iiiiiiur ui iiiiik.
I-ourth Regiment, Xebraska Cavalry. ' JOSEPHUS D VXIELS ".are: Davis, third base; Vogt, short ,:,. riti .r,.s..
! , .ton: and McCIIsh. Tavlor and Chap- , MADISOX, Wis., .Alay fi. Wisconsin
Virgil Coos,, to Re Buried Ttidaj. , Wed Jefferson City Girl. man in the outfield. Manager Morris ( defeated Purdue in track today. SS to
Funeral services for Virgil Coose, Fred Nichols, a oung farmer living 1 lias not announced who will pitch for 47.
the ."-year-old son of .Mr. and Mrs. 'nine miles east of Columbia, and Miss the Browns. , .,..
Thnroo r-o 11, v . ,, ' I enn Wilis .Meet From Dartmouth.
Thomas Coose. will be held at 10:30 1 Florence Propst were married yester- ,,r ,.,,,, ,.,,,,
o'clock this morning at the Wilkes .day afternoon by the Rev. A. W Pas- Burial of William Rutledge Today. "'PHILADELPHIA. May C Penn-
Boulevard Methodist Church. Death l'y at his residence. 501 L.vons street. The funeral of William Rutledge Slvania won the dual meet with
was caused Friday afternoon by a! The bride is the daughter of Mr. and will be held this afternoon at the home 1 Dartmouth this afternoon by a score
complication of
monia.
measles and pneu-
Mrs. J. A. Propst of Jefferson City and 0f Mrs. Mary Rutledge. 1202 Walnut 'of fiiu to r34.
formerly attended school here.
Police Chfrf Proud of Xew -Otin. i Atiie of First Graduate Here.
Chief of Police J. L. Whitesides is Mrs. Charles Arnold of Pittsburgh.
the possessor of a handsome new blue
steel revolver, which he was proudly
displaying to his cohorts and friends
at the City Hall last night.
wife of the first graduate of the School
of Journalism of the University, at
tended the Made-in-America Banquet
Friday evening.
street. The services will be conducted
by the Rev. Madison A. Hart. Burial
will be in the Columbia Cemetery.
Goes to Clifton to Preach.
The Rev. F. W. Allen went to Clif
ton yesterday to preach at the Chris
tian Church.
Tuxedo Tobacrn for Banqueter.
After the list of souvenir contribu
tors to the Made-in-America Banquet
was printed in Friday's Missourian, a
new one the American Tobacco Com
pany was addnl. Tuxedo Tobacco
for every banqueter was received.
a
.va$ctelr
---s e-1
f.-,w2si'St. - ftWi
:&
SwJ3fe3?fe
tlkfck-
ii &$
jSaM
Jet-?.
