The Famous Briggs
S c His Inimitable Cartoons on
The T.-D. Sporting Page
fJidittumit STiraeS-jBiSpalri]
Sketches From Life
See Temple's Human Interest
T.-D. Pictures Daily
66th YEAR
VOL.USIR n?i
M .MII10It 1SI
RICHMOND, VA., MONDAY, JULY 3, 1916. ?TEN PAGES.
-UNSETTLED
PRICE, TWO CENTS.
OFFICERS REQUEST !
WOOD TO RELIEVE
ARMY INSPECTOR
Lieutenant-Colonel Sterrett
Said to Have Offended
Virginia Militia.
WILL BE SUCCEEDED BY
COLONEL CHAMBERLAYNE
Ranking Army Officer at Camp
Henry Carter Stuart Is
Recalled. ?
ATTITUDK ONI] or HOSTILITY
Made Remarks Kelh-rtin^ on Virginia
Troops, Tlioir Management
ami Patriotism.
I fa vine made himself, it it; .alleged,
personally and officially offensive to
innny officer?; <>f the Virginia militia,
Lieutenant-Colonel Sterrett, United
States Army, has been relieved l>y
Major-General Wood. commander of the
Department of the I:apt. from duty as
chief Insp' cting officer f'-r tlx: War
I >epartment with the Virginia troops.
Colonel Sterrett will 1>< succeeded, it
is said, by Colonel Chamberlayne. ??f
the Inspector-General's Department.
The exact cause.* which 1 <?-<?! to the
action reported to have been taken by
officers of the Virginia National Guard
in asking General Wood to relieve
Colonel Sterrett from duty in Ri h
mond are ditlicult to learn, in view
of the position taken bv t)>f> officers
that military discipline prevents any
discussion of the matter. Reports
about Camp Henry Carter Stuart, yes
terday charged Colonel Sterrett with
many offenses, some which sur
passed the bounds of probability.
SMI) TO If A VK It KKI.KCTKI) OV
I'ATIUOTIVM or MII.l'riA
However, it seemed k<? nera 11 y under
stood that it was a series of remarks
made by the army officer reflecting
upon the Virginia troops, their man
agement and thf-ir patriotism, rather
than one specific act. which aroused
the local officers to take such radical
r.ctlon. It is stated that ever since
his arrival. Colonel St^-rrett's attitude
toward the troops and their oommand
? rhas been such s ?? '>r' use in
"??ire resentment
Rrigadier-Gener il Cecil V Vaughan.
ir. the camp commander, denied last
night that he had signed a request
f r the relief of Lieutenant-Colonel
Sterrett. Other officers at the camp
flatly refused to make any statement
or to affirm or deny the reports in
circulation. However, it was stated
that Colons t Sterrett had called upon
certain officers yesterday afternoon to
make his adieus, and had stated that
bis successor would shortly be on hand.
?lH.I|-:CTI-:n TO RIC-K.V A MINATION
or mi:> r\i)Kn wrciniiT
\mong the statements attributed to
the army officer was one to the effect
that probably the Virginia troops were
actuated by other than patriotic mo
tives in offering their services to the
government in the Mexican crisis, and
this is supposed to have been in
reference to the efforts inside by Gov
ernor Stuart. Adjutant-General Sale
and the commanding officers of the
various units to induce the War De
partment to accept for service men
otherwise sound and fit. but rejected
for minor physical defects, such as
under or over weight, this disqualifica
tion having made victims of some of
the best men in the service of the
Virginia Volunteers.
It Is said, furthermore, that Colonel
Sterrett objected strenuously, and in
an objectionable manner, to the pres
ence at camp of some officers assigned
to duty there f>>r specific purposes,
and, further, that his entire attitude
was one of hostility to the militia.
Colonel Sterrett. when called by
telephone last night, at his rooms at
the Jefferson Hotel, declined to make
any comment.
IN CAMP AWAITING ORDERS
A ^proximately 150,000 CuurdMnien From
State* of Department of Kiint
Ready to .Hove.
NEW YORK, July 2.?Approximately
a 0.000 national guardsmen from the
Stiite.ii of the Department of the Hast
are now in mobilizsition camps await
ing orders and equipment, Major-Gen
eral Wood announced to-night. It is
expected, he said, that 35,000 men from
his department will bo In the field by
the end of the week. Already at the
border or on their way there are 24,028
State troops. These men are divided
by States as follows:
New York, 5,0-13: Massachusetts,
5,437; New Jersey, 4,050; Pennsylvania,
3,308; Connecticut, 2,221; Maryland,
7.105; Maine, 1,030; Vermont, 88S;
Rhode Island, 181.
Movement of militia units will be
much slower from now on, General
Wood said, but he sinnounced that the
remainder of New York's cavalry con
tingent would be sent south at once.
RIOTING IN COLOGNE
Soldiers Refuse to I-'ire Into Crowd,
but Shoot I'ollcc, Wounding
Kightecn of Them.
(Special Cable to The Times-Dispatch.]
LONDON, July 2.?A dispatch to the
Kxchange Telegram Company from The
Hague, says that In a food and peace
riot in Cologne, soldiers called on to
quell the disturbance refused to shoot
Into tho crowd, but shot the police,
wounding eighteen of them, atfer the
latter had fired Into tho crowd, killing
and wounding many of the rioters.
Traffic to Cologne to The Hague has
been stoppod, ndds tho dispatch.
HOTEL RUKGKR ROOF TO-NIOIIT.
Dinner-supper, music, dancing, 6:30 to 12.
r~Adv*
Hopes Are High,
Among the Allies
Noted Military Critics of Franco
See Beginning of Great Vic
tory in Western Offensive.
j [Special Cable to The Times-Dispatch.]
PARIS. July 2.?Expectation of great
' developments from the Franco-British
offensive on the Somme is voiced to
day by the most noted military critics
of France. Some of the expressions
follow:
IJV 1,1 liUTE\A NT-COLO ?v El, HOSSET,
.Noted Krnch Military Critic.
We must await the logical develop
! inent of events before judginx the
1 scope of this offensive, but the initial
: success Justifies our fondest hopes.
Our prodigious defense of Verdun
made th blow possible, enabling the
British army to compete all prepara
tions.
IIV JOSEPH ItEIAACH,
Official Illnlorlmi of tlie Wnr.
The blow aims due cast. It is a tre
mendous new battle that may last
months. Wo must not judge It by one
day's results. It Is part of the slow
development of a general offensive,
j Keep close watch op every battle Held
of Europe, not merely on the Soinme
i Valley.
IIV GUSTAV lir.lt VK.
I'ttfiiouK Krrnrli Soelallnt Kdltor.
We are adopting sound methods this
time. The enemy trenches are drenched
? all ?lay with shells and covered with
? asphyxiating gases which are of the
finest quality. Then at night patrols
go out, inspect the damage and pick
; up prisoners.
This method is slow, but sure. What
joy if the effort result in the deliv
erance of our soil!
in MARCEL, I1UTIX,
.Voted French Wur Correspondent.
The Germans held three lines of
varying depth. We have carried the
first. The second and third will have
to be carried after artillery prepara
tion similar to that of the last week.
We shall see successive pushes,
from which we must not expect Im
mediate results, but in which we can
! repose the greatest confidence.
IIV GENKRAl. V Kit HA.
Well-Known Military Writer.
At first sight the front of attack
in the Somme Valley seems narrow
compared to the Russian offensive, but
1 on the western front the defensive
works are more serried. With the
obstacles the Germans have piled up,
one behind the other, we have had to
prepare to pierce to such a depth that
the effort can only be made on a nar
row front.
The battle has opened successfully.
We car.not put i m <? words all our
hopes in it.
LARGE PART OF FUND RAISED
Three .Million Oollurx Already Pledged
to IViiKlonn for K|ilxi-<>|tit I
t'lergymen.
NEW VORK, July 2 ?Bishop Law
of Massachusetts, head of the
movement in the Protestant Episcopal
i Church to provide a thorough sj.siejn
j of pensions for its clergymen, an
nounced yesterday that $3,000,00'"* of the
necessary fund had been
p!edged as a result oi a four-month
ca:np;;:gr. The plan will not be put
unfit! way until the full fund as a
reter\e is on band.
All of the sixty-eight dioceses of the
Protestant Episcopal Church in tho
1'nlted States have formally adopted
tfie pension plan and pledged It their
support.
An examination of vital statistics
covering OS 1-2 per cent of all the
Episcopal clergy has been completed
by a life insurance actuary. It has
| been found that the sum of $5.06-4.000
will be sufficient as a resrve fund to
cany the minimum pension benefits
; for al' tho active clergy and their
; families.
I Y. M. C. A. WORK ON BORDER
Six Station* to He Kit ulil In hod In In
terent of Soldier* Xnir Going
oil Duty There.
NEW YOBIC. ,*u?y 2.?The intc<r.:i
; tlonal committee of the Voung Men's
' Christian Association has decided to
! establi.'.'.i six stations on the Mexican
I border as headquarters for the distri
| b.jtion of magazine s and other articles
I intended to relieve the monotony of the
soldiets now golncr on duty there. The
plnces selected are Harlingen, l)onnn,
! Mission, El Pssn and Eagle Pass, Tex.,
and Columbia, X. M. Among the sec
retaries to bo sent to the border aro
F. II. McCarl, of San Francisco; O. E.
Cuyler. of Bremerton. Wash.; W. K.
Adams, of 5ni? Francisco.
II. W. Chaffee has left Plattsburg for
Texa?, to have charge of the work there
for the New York regiments. Twenty
buildings will be erected along the Mex
! lean border for Young Men's Christian
! Association work among the troops.
PEARY QUITS RACE
Feel* it Would be ITrnvIm for llltn,
Inexperienced tin He In, lo Kntfr
Field of Politic*.
[Special to Tho Times-Dispnteh.]
PORTLAND, MR, July 2.?Declaring
his only reason for entering the sena
torial race in the first place wns to
further ?ho Interests of preparodness,
which he characterized ns tho one vital
issue In the United States to-day, Rear
Admiral Robert E. Peary issued to
night an open letter withdrawing his
came as a candidate to succeed tho late
?Senator Edward C. Burleigh.
Rear-Admiral Peary said his first Im
pulse was that a seat In tho Senate
would mean power in aiding the Aero
Const Patrol and naval movoments In
Maine. He now feels It would be un
wise for him to enter the field of poll
tics, inexperienced as ho Is, nnd thi?t
ho would have llttlo chance.
DELAYED ON ORDER
Of GENERAL WOOD
No Virginia Soldiers to Go
Forward Until After
Fourth of July.
; FIRST REGIMENT MAY
ENTRAIN ON WEDNESDAY
Artillery Companies Still Lack
Men and Are Not Mus
tered In.
MAX V VISITORS IN CAMP
Signal Corps Roqaires Seven Men [
to Make L'p Its Full
Quota.
After the First Vlrsinla Regiment!
ha?l packed its baggage and commls- j
sary supplies yesterday, preparatory to j
departing for Brownsville, Texas, early '
this morning a teleprram was received i
from Major-General Leonard Wood, com- !
I mantling the Department of the East. '
directing that there be no prepara-;
tlons on Monday and Tuesday look- I
ing to movement of Virginia troops.
: The delay of two (lays is supposed to i??
to relieve congestion on the railroads'
| over the Fourth of July, when the ex
j cursion business is heavy and when
j there is usually a shortage of cars, and
may be a great congestion of trains on
single-track roads In the South.
K. S. Moore, the special representa
tive of the railroads, detailed by tho
! American Railway Association to as
sist in the movfmont of troops in and
out of "Richmond, said last night that i
th'- movement to the Mexican border
had been held hy the military au- i
thorities, and that the railroads were
prepared to handle the soldiers at any
time.
n.\ ihROADs ar:\nv to
MOVIC WHEN ORDLRKD
Roth the Southern and Seaboard Air
Line railroads, which have b^en desig
nated by military officials to handle
the first movement of troops out of
| R'chmond, have been prepared for sev- .
era.1 days to handle any number of men.
The Southern has had cars parked in
| its yards for more than a week, while
the Seaboard likewise rushed into Rich
mond a large number of passenger
i coaches for use in an emergency. These ;
are being held by the roads subject ;
to call at any moment.
It Is now anticipated that the move- ;
ment of Virginia troops to the Texas 1
border will begin Wednesday morn- |
ing. Prior to the receipt of General
Wood's telegram last niirht. the First
Regiment, equipped for heavy march- !
ing order and ready to take the field,;
had been instructed to be prepared to :
entrain for Brownsville this morning.!
The Second Regiment, according to j
semiofllcial announcement, was to have |
followed to-morrow morning. The
Field Artillery Corps, if it was ready!
in time, was to have moved on Wednes
day morning, and the First Squadron,
First Virginia Cavalry (the Richmond,
Blues), on Friday.
VlltCIMA THOOI'S WII.I,
<;o TO IIHOWXSVILLK I
All the Virginia troops, it was stated, i
will be sent to Brownsville, where 1
preparation for their coming has been I
; under way for some time. Captain i
Arthur M. Shipp. United States Army,5
! notified General Leonard Wood, com- I
nian ling tho Department of the East, i
over the lons-dlstance telephone yes- !
j terday that he was ready to move tho
First Regiment, and was informed that
orders would be issued.
All the wagon transportation of the
First Regiment was loaded aboard
; cars by yesterday afternoon. Trains'
j of tho Seaboard Air Lino were held in j
j readiness for tho transportation of the j
! troops.
News that movement was likely to
begin at onco worked its way through
Camp Henry C. Stuart yesterday by j
j that grape-vine method of transmis- !
sion which no censorship can stop. It j
j was flashed over Richmond, and in i
j tho afternoon the concentration camp !
was crowded with parents, relatives!
; and curious visitors, come to bring a \
! farewell token and to say good-by. I
There was no lack of woman's tears,
j They flowed copiously beneath many a i
| half-drawn tent. Mothers took their'
? sons aside in company street or in the j
; shelter of surrounding trees to say a !
' last word of fond advice, and, incl-!
j dentally, to ask if their socks wcr#
| darned and If their buttons wero sown j
! on tight. Fathers shook their sons'
hands and patted them on the shoulders.
Wives told their husbands to he suro
to write home regularly every day.
Thousands of small packages of cig
arettes, sweets, little comforts for the
field, locks of hair from the children,
and other tokens of home and friend
were distributed by those who will re
main behind.
THOUSANDS OK VISITORS
CiO OVER CAM!'
Fully 10,000 people visited tho camp
during the day, the crowds flowing
In continual currents from end to end
of the inner field, in which the two
regiments are encamped, and from tho
grand stand to Sherwood Park, where
stand the tents of the Field Artillery
and the Field Hospital Corps. Hun
dreds of automobiles threaded their
way along tho race course, and many
wero parked so that their occupants
could watch company Inspection and
hear the lectures from the com
manders. It was an Impressive scene.
(Continued on Second Pago.)
OO TO BAT.TIMORK TO-MOnT
Via YORK K1VKR I.1NB.
Tho most delightful water trip In Amer
ica. New ?tearners. K'.OO one way; I4.&0
round trip.?Adv. r
VICTORIOUS OFFENSIVE
OF ALLIES CONTINUES
??iS^^^^^,v,,;.:,^^^ ;.-v:".... ...
;,-^y-^i..-7
Officers of Battery C, of the Sixth Field Artillery, at their quarters in Mexico. Captain Charles C. Pulls,
in command, is the second soldier from tlie left. The officers take their meals, arrange plans, and sleep and
eat under the protection of a roof of canvas upheld by odd tree limbs and lumber procured at short notice.
They enjoy no luxuries, living much the same as their privates.
According to Present Estimates,
Grand Total May Reach
$ 1,050,000,000.
LARGEST BY HALF BILLION
At Least One-Fourth of Whole Sum
Will Be for National Defense.
Important Measures Still A wait ins
Action.
"W ASHINGTON. July 2.?Congress is
preparing to complete its program
of financial preparedness with every
indication that appropriations this sea
son will aggregate considerably more
than $1,500.1)00.000. at least $500,000,000
of which will he for national defense.
-According to estimates based on fig
ures compiled by Chairman Fitzgerald,
o* the House Appropriations Committee,
and increases put into pending mea
sures by Senate committees, the grand
appropriation total may reach $l,fio0,
000,000, exceeding by more than $",00.
000,000 the record of any previous Con
gress. L,ast week Representative Fitz
gerald submitted a statement to the
Houso showing that the grand total for
the present Congress, based on bills
passed and pending, would reach near
ly Sl.r.00,000,000. Since then the Sen
ate Naval Committee has added near
ly $.*0,000,000 to the naval bill, and
the military committee has Increased
the 51S2,000,000 army appropriation
measure by approximately $100,000,000.
The principal appropriation measures
awaiting Senate consideration are the
army and navy bills. As amended in
committee they carry $2S2,000,000 and
?315,S2tf,St3. respectively. and tosetlier
with the fortifications bill, which has
passed both houses, would appropriate
for national defense more than $*522.
OOO.OAO. There is every indication that
the Senate will accept the major part
of the proposed army and navy In
creases, but conferences probably will
pare some of them down.
SENATE TO TAKE IP >AVAI?
HIM, WITH IX Ki;\v DAYS
The Senate plans to take up the
naval bill as soon as tho agricultural
bill is out of the way, probably within
a few days. The big building program
for 1!>17, and the provision for a three
year construction policy probably will
mean a debate of several weeks. .Mean
time the army bill will come from
committee, and an effort may he made
to pass it as soon as it is ready, set
ting aside the naval bill temporarily.
With its work on appropriations
nearing completion, the House Is ready
to take up the 5210.000,000 revenue
bill introduced yesterday. It is ex
pected to come up Thursday under a
special rule aril to be passed Saturday.
Then the. House will be marking time
waiting for the Senate to catch up.
Besides several of the big supply1
measures, the Sennte ha,s the shipping!
bill, the child-labor bill, the $2,000.
000 militia relief measure, conservation
measures, the immigration hill and
many minor matters to dispose of.
If there Is to be an adjournment
in time for the political campaign.
Congress leaders believe some of the
measures of tho President's legislative
program must be sacrificed, probably
the immigration and conservation
measures.
LONGS FOR TEXAS WEATHER
XeweNt llnni* for UnprepnrednewM
Chnrge Contained In Woman'*
better ?o General Wood.
[Special to Tho Times-Dispatch.]
N'lOW YORK, July 2.?Tho newest
basis for tho unpreparedness charge
against tho National Guard was con
tained In a letter received by General
Wood to-day. It was written by a
woman whose husband Is an olllcer
in a cavalry troop of this State.
Sho" said, In protesting against her
husband's service in Mexico:
"Ho can't ride, he can't shoot and he
Isn't trained. He .Isn't even accli
mated."
Plana to Import Texan" weather for
the New York guard may bo made as
part of tho preparedness movoment,
No Action in Mexican
Crisis Now Probable
Until Late in Week
Officials Ignorant as to Time
President Wilson Is Will
ing to Wait for Car
ranza's Reply.
WASHINGTON. July 2.?Sunday
brought no important development
here in the Mexican crisis. The only
official dispatch received during the
day, aside from routine reports, was
a message from General Funston,
transmitting information reaching Gen
eral Bell at El Paso, regarding the
Mexican raid near Fort Hancock. It
said that raiders took two horses last
night near old Fort Early, Tex., and
escaped into Mexico. An investiga
tion was in progress, and General Bell
; said he would take any necessary steps.
' The order to American commanders to
I follow into Mexico any hot trail they
? find remains unchanged.
Neither the State Department nor
? the Mexican embassy had any word
as to when Carranza's reply to the
i American demands, ?waited by Presi
| dent Wilson with some impatience,
might be expected.
There seemed little probability that
! the Washington government would
| consider further action until late in
j the week. The House will not reas
semble until Wednesday, having ad
journed over the Fourth of July.
While the administration could take
any necessary defensive steps in the
event that General Pershing's column
was attacked, no aggressive movement
would be undertaken until af*%>r Presi
dent Wilson had advised Congress of
his purpose and definite authority had
been granted.
DO XOT KNOW HOW I.OXG
WILSON Wll,l, WAIT OX CAllRANZA
Officials profess complete ignorance
as to the time President Wilson Is
willing to wait for General Carranza's
reply.
The War Department issued a brief
official statement to-day regarding the I
good progress being made in National
Guard mobilization. "Mobilization of
the National Guard in all departments
is proceeding without a hitch," it said.
"Large parts of the guard have al
reay entrained for their destination,
and the muster of the remainder is
proceeding as rapidly as possible.
Secretary Baker said lie did not
know how many thousand guardsmen
already had reached the border. Thero
Is reason to believe, however, that tip
wards of 30.000 will have been added
to the border guard within the next
two or three days. During the last
twenty-four hours regiments from
Maryland, Missouri, Wisconsin, Kan
sas and Pennsylvania have entrained,
according to War Department reports.
General Bell reported to the War De
partment to-night that Mexican Consul
Garcia, at El Paso, had promised aid
and protection for the party that will
be sent to bring back the bodies of
the American troopers killed at Car
rlzal. Arrangements for this were be
ing completed. General Bell said, add
ing that the mission probably would
bo intrusted to a party of Mexicans.
The department announced to-night
that tho National Guard units that have
reached the border are being supplied
with machine guns.
AMERICAN TROOPS LOSE
Tit AIL OF BANDITS
FA BENS, TEN., July 2.?American
troops who crossed tho rtlo Grande
into Mexico near Fort Hancock late
yesterday afternoon In pursuit of Mex
ican raiders, reerosscd the river to
day, tho trail having been lost, ac
cording to reports hcj-e.
Three troops of cavalry under Cap*
tain Eletlnge pursued Mexicans who
raided the old post at Fort Hancock
and escaped with several head of
horues oC the ffovernment forccs,
f'AV V; V'" V.-V:Jsu
?1 i A'- -sA A*. . v' -? A vl'V 41* '/? /1vi A&tf Hiiift'.?> V ? -I
Man Told to Meet Next
Picket Walks 40 Miles
DOUGLAS, A It I/.., .luly 2.?AcJnm
Dnckery, it private in Compan}- II,
A rir.omi organized mllltin, reported
on Frliloj- iih iuIkhIiik, returned to
enmp yesterday, after walking near
ly forty nillrn while on outpoint
duty. The private, 11 recent recruit,
it wild miid nt mill tin Iieadquiirtern,
wan placed on guard nt the Inter
national line with inntructloun to
walk to the eant until lie met the
?entry he wan to relieve.
Ill Home manner Dockery mlnned
the nentry. He kept wnlklng until
finnlly, lnut night, he met a patrol
on guard eighteen mlleM eant of the
camp.
"IJockfry certainly obeyed In
struct Iihih,*' mi olllccr remnrked,
"liut It Im a good thine lie met
that patrol or lie iirohalily would
have walked to 101 l'lino."
FORBIDDEN TO PRACTICE
lawyer for I. W. W. I lOxecuted
for Murder Dlnltarrcd liy
Supreme Court.
SALT LAIvK, July ?The Utah Su
premo Court, in a unanimous opinion
handed down yesterday, disbarred O.
X. Hilton, of Denver, front practice in
the courts of Utah.
Hilton was chief counsel for Joseph
Ilillstrom. the Industrial Worker of
the World leader, who was executed
here on November 10 for the murder
of J. CI. Morrison ami his son. Charges
against Hilton were pressed by the
Utah Bar Association on remarks
made by Hilton at Hillstrom's funeral
in Chicago a few days after the exe
cution.
The Supreme Court, holds that Hil
ton's charges of Mormon Church In
fluence in the courts of Utah are with
out basis in fact, and constitute a
vilification of the church as well as
unprofessional conduct by Hilton. All
members of the Supreme Court arc
non-Mormons.
MEN AT CANAL MAY STRIKE
Metal Trade* Worker* I'rotent Again*!
Charge for l?ent Without
Wnge lncren.se.
PANAMA. July 2.?The metal trades
employees in the shops of the l'atvnna
Canal are preparing to <]iiit work be
cause they are being charged for rent
without receiving an increase in wages.
The central organization of the men in
the United States has advised the men
to strike. Nine hundred of the l.L'OO
metal workers are affected.
There has been dissatisfaction among
the employees of the canal commis
sion at Tana ma since March. 101.*>, when
an order requiring all employees to
pay rent, light ami fuel* charges went
into effect. Several protests were
made at Washington by the American
Federation of Labor before and after
the order was promulgated. Ni> dis
satisfaction among the canal employees
hnd men reported iu (he past few
months.
YARN MILL DESTROYED
T.lcimilnR Seta Fire to Plnu, n< Hjiiuni
Vnled nt 9100,
000.
CHARLOTTE, N. C., July 3. Fire
this afternoon at Bynum, N. C., de
stroyed the J. M. O'Doll Manufactur
ing Company's yarn mill, valued by
the company at $100,000, covered by
$70,000 Insurance. The fire was caused
by lightning. Tlif cotton warehouse
and lapper room were saved.
% _
i ''/>?-'UrMloit to No'f ilk to ttnrrnw i
via N. & \\.. icavvK Bvnl Htru.it .Station ^:J0 i
a, at, Quo largo ad liulUo for particulars. I
BEFORE ATTACK
OF HAIG'S ARMY
Both British and French
War Offices Report
Steady Advance.
GUN ACTIONS PRECEDE
ALL INFANTRY ATTACKS
Germans Deliver Number of Vio
lent Counterattacks, but Re
treat in Disorder.
VTIjLAGE or CURIiU CAPTURED
Strategic Position of Tliiaumont
Works Recaptured by French
and Is Held by Them.
All through tlio night thp great Brit
ish and French offensive which be
gan on Saturday morning in the Somme
and Ancre sectors continued with in
tensity, and there was no diminution
in the battle on Sunday. Both Brit
ish and French War Ofilces report a
steady advance at certain points, but
speak also of the formidable German
resistance.
Fricourt, an Important town three
miles east of Albert, has fallen to the
British arms, while the French have
taken Curln. which lies to the south
east. The fighting at the southern end
of the British line, where it is in con
tact with the French, is of the fiercest
nature, tremendous artjllory actions
preceding all the infantry attacks.
The French have taken 6,000 pris
oners, according to the latest estimates,
while the British, though reporting the
capture of 3.500, later declared that
the estimates were too low. Owing to
the nature of the battle it is not doubt
ed that the casualties are very high.
Notwithstanding the terrific offen
sive against them in the Somme River
region, the Germans have not ceased
In their efforts around Verdun. They
have bombarded several of the Verdun
sectors, and have launched Infantry at
tacks against the French trenches.
While Berlin declares that the French
attacks against the famous Thlaumont
work were repulsed by curtains of Are,
the French War Office announces that
this strategic position has been recap
tured by the French forces, and is held
by them.
GERMANS ADMIT ADVANCE
MADE MY EXEMY FORCES
Referring to the Anglo-French drive,
the German official statement says that
at several points of the flrst-line
trenches along the Somme. the enemy
forces gained successes, and were able
to advance. A German division in this
sector had to bo withdrawn, and ma
terial in the first line, Which was im
movable and which bad been rendored
useless, was lost.
In connection with the operation*
now going on, aerial activity was
markod. There have been many air
fights, and Berlin reports that eight
British and three French machines
were brought down within the German
lines, and that four others also were
shot down. The British admit that
three of their machines are missing.
Additional successes are recorded by
Petrograd, the official communication
announcing that Austrian positions
west of Kolomea, In Gallcia, have been
taken by storm after Intense fighting,
with the capture of 2,000 prisoners.
The A'.jstro-German forces In Volhynia
are making desperate counterattacks,
while in other sections of the Russian
front there are constant artillery and
infantry engagements, in which neither
side seems to havo mado any notable
g.ilns.
The. Italians are pushing their strong
offensive in the Trentino. and, Indeed,
along almost the entire Austro-Italian
front, the Italians are forcing the
lighting.
COM UlN EI) OFKi:XSIV12
CONTINUES TO SUCCEED
LONDON, July 2.?The official Brit
ish dispatch, issued to-day. reports tho
continued success of the combined An
glo-French offensive. Tho Germans
put into operation strong counterat
tacks during th<* night. and are ap
parently making desperate resistance.
In;' the British troops have occupied
Fricourt and the French liavo captur
ed Curlu, and havo seemingly nowhore
had to give the Germans any gain.
North of the Somme. where the
French and British armies make con
tact, various points of tactical va!u?
have been taken. The allied struggle
is to extend tho hold over the rolling
plateau of from 300 to f>00 feot high,
which stretches around Albert. At Frl
court, Contalmalson and Gomrnecourt
the Germans made a most desperate
resistance to defend the high road from
Arras to Cnpnpmne and Peronne, and
which is tint of tho main arteries of
the western operations.
The German official report generally
confirms the success of the first fljty'n
British opeiations, admitting ih? with
