-7
Jstm.
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Local thunder showers to-dajT; tomor
IT SHINES FOK ALL
row fair; moderate winds:
Hlchest temnerarure yesterday. ttLlMett, 16.
Detailed weather, mall and iiMU-lne'rirttlVkf r
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 307.
ONE CENT M'tty I tSraWs.
NEW YORK, MONDAY, JULY 3, 1916. Copyright, 19H1. by the Sim Printing and Publishing Association.
EVEN WOMEN
AND CHILDREN
TO FIGHT U.S.
3Ioiean Peace Delegates
Say Nation Will Battle
to the End.
FIFTH EXPEDITION
CROSSES THE 110KDEH
No Hint From Carranza
Wlien He Will Iteply to
Wilson's Demands.
Washington, July 2 "If driven Into! ,l" "l'P"-'r.adnouKhi which nr.- ox
war with the United State., the people of ,,oe,c,1 ,0 be ul"ed by Congress.
xt..i-n n,.n i.u.i,. I T"e Senate Naval Affalrii Committee
vnuld fleht In lh rnnbn ti(nt Mflrlfi
nd stones when their ammunition was '
tihausted " I
Thls was the. statement made to-day
by representatives of the labor organ
izations of Mexico, assembled here,
to ronfer with Samuel Gompers, presl-
ceni 01 me American reccrauon or. i-a-
ror. In the Interest of peace.
Their purpose is to get, organized la-
tor in both countries to bridge the gap J
of misunderstanding between the people
f both count! lea and In that way nvert '
hostilities. !
In the delecitlnn t.ni M Mn-'
rnn M ite i.ii.r iii.,,in ri..rni. iir '
,bil, Col. lMinnnd Martinez, Carlos
U-xera and li.iltaz.ir Pages, who de-
rtared that the sixty labor union rep-
resented by them Include, an aggregate
membership uf tno.iiini. .n Interpreter
who spoke for the delegates thus summed -
up their Idea In rcg.ud to the present
situation
"The people of Mexico do not want
oar with the United States and frm
vhat we have seen since we crossed
the border the people of the United
Hates do not want war with Mexico. We
do not believe that Hen. Carranza or
nv of those about him want war. and
the speei'h of President Wilson In New
York last week before the Press Club
encourages us to bel.eve fliat he does
not want war. Why then should the two
governments be unable to get together?
Mtxlrnit t'eiilr Proud.
"The people of .Mexico are Just a"
proud and patriotic as the people of the
I til ed Mates and naturally resent the
Infringement of their sovereignty as
represented by the nresen.e of American
oops on -Mexican soil, lou look on
V , :,
n to suspicion. Many Mexicans hold
!.!.. ."''.'"r...?"1'0" "f ,,,e l,el'le "f the
I. II " fl .
.:Y"' X rX. 5!"V !T.
I "; " Ln. .
and wi' suspect nur motives.
. Old not hunt .lese James and hW
;!... with artillery, but .you .did
i on
Ci'.Jtl,
rst troni Mexico a large and wealthy
st1- tlon of her territory in the Mexican
wnr I
to.us that seinsh Interests '
"It seems
in the Limed States, men with proper
11 tne Ltilteil Stales, men w tn proper- i
ties or pr.-pects In Mexico, are responsl-
11 f.r all this trouble. Man. of these
culd like to i he l'nlle.1 States
ivet M.xico. but If forced to tight
Mex.co will fight. Make no mistake
n m tna . Mer men aim l.er women.
.. ami her children will lght. And
I' .ur ammunition gives out we shall
fight with cks and stones to the last
.1 p of our blood."
iut that. Her men and her women,
The Mexicans will hold a series of con
w in noiu a series or con-
f-r-m es with Fi. sldent Uompers. nt
invitation tney came to wash
ngi n.
.'onllriiieil lii rnplinl.
0!1I al continuation was received at .
tb- War Department of the reported
ad by Mexicans at Old Fort early to-
(In The rejsirt was as follows:
It was reported to (inn. Hell that
ra ders crossed to thlH side at Old I
Fort early on the night of July 1 and
""k three horses belonging to
Deputy Sheriff Sennet. Haiders were
ipiii.,.1 ... .........
irrL''
f-ioks whlln others waited on the
Mexican side. Hen. Hell took the ncc-'-".try
steps to determine the facts
tid will proceed direct.
The Administration Is still waiting
oii (rom Carranza as to whether (ten.
Tn-Mno-H orders arc to stand. Desplt
the fa,t that a week iuro ilin Am..rle. in
i.overninent called on the Carranxa ,
'buerninent for an "Immediate" state-
nient of ItH position
no response hai
Th Klnte nen.xrtni.-ot to.il.iv uus
without a word from Mexico city and ,
tn Mexican F.mbaHsy denied that I
AmbHssador-Deslcnato Arredoi.dn has .
'he reply nnd Is waiting to present It
tn Secretary Lansing to-morrow
fiicuestlons th.it the President la
rnniideilng the aiwlsablllty (X Imiioslng
nine limit within which a reply must
; . .
-"he,,. doubt as t , what I'resl-
lent Wilson Is going to do appears to
" is strong as anywhere pise,
lb ports to the I icp.irtinent showed that
v ithin the past 21 hours militia units of
tr:!":.. MI
h dT. and It Is estimated that bifnte
' ' end of lhe week at least 25,000
Ejinlsinen will be on duty along the In
trmtifin,il bounda y. The reports In
11 Hie thai the mobilization Is proceed
ir g now without a hitch.
moors cross border.
f'hiMr tfier Ilnndlls Hnd. W'llh
. . , ..
I.o.l Trull.
Li. Pxso, Tex . July 2, Another "hot"
I'.. I which whs followed Into Mexico
lo.iiay hy American furies rooted.
1 ilit I.eioy Lltlnge. eominand ng
roi-p eighth Cavalrv. crossed uoulli of
ort Hancock earlv Ibis iiiornlos nfler
llll, Meli-ni iiilil..ru all,, f.VOI-, ,,l,rhl
rfnnitiiit.i ,i,..,...i,.,t.nu i.A I..,.
-1- iii-iiiiiiin im tiir iih i ii. ii ii i in" n. I'j. ' , i
"I of dm line. He followed for son" , sented In any language and may cei l
't M.ime, but soon Inst thn trail and i n tho relation of prayer to the Iran
returned tn-nlglit. vldual, the Church and the State i to ills-
c.ipt. IJItlngo was stationed at Fab-ns, . tress or national danger: to everyd'iy
hiniway between Fl I'aso and Fort affairs of men, and to the healing or
Hancock, and by a forc.-d march yestrr. Illness In answer to prayer,
'lay afternoon and last night "'.nli.d The result of the competition will ns
Hancock to-day nnd Immediately plunf ed published In October, 117.
" niss me nver with ins eoinmi.iiii, in
lowed, It Is said, by olher troops of
'hf siim, regiment, sent from Fort lll'ss
Ian evening.
The raiders, In addition to driving off
r.nch horses on Friday night and nen
roily frlKhtenlng the civilian popula-
t'onffmierf ot Tlrrl Poff.
11 A N D NEW YORK PRESSl
16 INCH GUNS FOR
NEW BATTLESHIPS
Nnvy Pcpnrtment Accepts the
Recommendation of the
Gencrjil Honrd.
FULL RANGE 25 MILES
WAMttNaTON. July 2. Following the
recommemlntlon of the Genernl Hoard,
the Nnvy Depnrtment tins decided to
adopt the 16 Inch gun In place of the
M Inch rllle for the main batteries of
! yesterday recommended ten of thetie
'"'"WP" ' the t"ee year bulldlnK
PrKrnmme. Anticipating thin nctlan
' .vimir.nl Dewey nnd menwra or the
I General Honnl have submitted to Sec-
retary Daniels recommendations con
cerning the chief characteristics of the
new ship
The question of calibre of gun for the
Shlom 'ta"be.n d'lscul "b?
ordnance experts In the navy. Hefore
the Kuropcan war opinion was absj-
"i"1' divided over the advisability of
adopting 16 or H Inch rllles fur the
latest type battleships. Hecause the
smaller calibre kuii has the Hatter tra
Jectory for the name range many naval
officers believed that more accurate
shooting could be done Willi that
weapon. The same argument wan
threshed out at great length when the
navy a-Jopted the 14 Inch gun In place
of the 12 Inch. Such excellent records
were made at target practice with the
12 Inch projectiles that many gunnery
officers of the tlcot favored this weapon
'" preference to any other,
The war In Europe brought about a
decided change In the opinions of ord-
nance experts throughout the world,
for the ltrltlsh 15 Inch and 1S.T, Inch
guns accomplished wonders. vvheras no
unusual results were demonstrated by
the smaller calibre weapons. For oxam-
pie, naval officers here point out that
the ltrltlsh battle cruiser Lion, equipped
with eight 1.1. ." Inch guns, began to de
stroy the Herman cruiser Itluecher In
the North Sea running light last year at
the astonishing range of 16 miles.
No such hitting had ever before been
, , aV w;irsh,,. .t the same
, ,!ernin battle cruiser Moltke,
armed wl, n ich rrs. ,va unable 10
, d projectile within several miles of
(ne on accord ng to reports wnivn
',,; ,.,,. , lhe Nllvn, ,nlcll,.
gence ..fllcer here.
u ILr ! Imann llollinnM t r.-l ( -
in, the remarkable, work of b.gh calibre
guns reached the Nav Pepartment beie
?ro,., the Dardanelles, where the ltrltlsh
. i.-iir-,l,Pth e.itiltmed
' l'1' u" ' ,,on"1 ,hrew her pro
In
Jootlles Into earthworks twenty
tant anil with great accuracy.
The Heneral Hoard s first recommeniia
-s for the new f -es
"- -,- J i, "i'... i.rifnr therefoie
?,00 ,?,n" '""V' , M?nshl'n, Tennessee an 1
lhan ,he, m-" ,al'',11na V.?, 5n whh '
Call ornla. and to equip each ship with
ten 16 Inch guns. ,
Seeretarv Daniels, however. Is not In
favor of this Increased displacement.
Vlie ClencrnI Hoard's recommendation Is
,,,e . .V" ,!,, . i,.h , ord.
"ow ,or ,he, e' fji Accurate
"J1"1?"", ' is to " wh it mil
Information In a.Uance as to wh. it ma
be expected by way of long rai.,te shoot
: . v.,.. , ,,
m5. .".. mi" . '.V".r.''.. "
Ing by this type ot nign .
which tho Navy has adopted.
It may, however, be said on authority
tlmt the nroiectlles will weigh consld
ernbly more than a ton each, and that
tv..... m-ii- Un ..nt rra.shlnir Into a target
tweIlt-rlve miles distant.
.
.
T)WQ HF PAPFRi I FFT
IN SUBWAY DAILY
'w1 (;,ne,, Awfl' K,,,'h ,,n,eM;;rr
Weichs Over 13,000 Pounds
' ' ,"" "
-100 Porters on Duty.
StatlsliclntiK of the Interborough Hapld
Transit Company have been worKing
feverishly for six months to give the
m,i,u these facts:
Five tons o. newspapers are oaiiy
thrown a way In the subways.
If these
were not cleaned away the trains would
,,,i,.i few dnvs.
b'..bl"c.kw .. , er? ' of .11, . Is
nr,)UK nto the ' subway and then
",V,",i pI, dav.
,.',.,... u'ds each, have been gathered
f", S h' ist six months
All lo Id. 3li.UU paCKIlges, xveisoins
humlrnl lMtrterf, i'okihik
'"mh0U"," ' ' U employed ; sixty dozen
brooms were worn out; 120 cases of
n.aiuh .Ano-.iwii dozen mops, l.suu
pound's of cotton waste, thlrty-slx dozen
. . . i.i.. ..w,r nrtlcles
" , V" " ,VnuinPrui,c other articles
wPu"ed,by1,,,hUe,npor.er.s.
$5C0 FOR ESSAY ON PRAYER.
I olx rslo of St. Andrew Offer"
I'rlse for lies! rtlele.
Cim-Aoo. July 2. Five hundred do!
lai s Is olTeied for an essay nil pravr
The olfer comes from the l nlvtri.lt o
sit, Andrews, sicoiinuu. aiui is "i"-
the world for competltloi., ,Tlie essas
must reach the university by June t.
'l9,. u suggested the length of the
essays may be from l.00 to fi.000 words,
,ut no limit on the number of words is
if -e,,' .......o.iv .hroiiub which the woild'been Increased materially by aids from
K 'lhe tragel througli w Hi n im Tenement House and Police depart-
of s now passing In war hkh ,l Twenty-live additional nurses
er Is becoming more, wide re g z -b , have been rclca.ned
hi slated as a reason for the tlmel niss i i.i ilul,i,i , ,. ,nr ,h ,.f.
fixed,
u,f..l ,.u
....i.ia.-i 'rii.. ,.HhnvK mav be pre
Nnrrnt Collection for -Vntlon.
(perill Cabt Pnpatrh iTh Sis.
Iinpon. July 2. Asher Werthelmer.
who owns an unrlvnlled rollecllon of
Hrrent' portraits, h announced his
Intention of bequeathliw them to the
nation,
EIGHT DIE; 80 MORE
CASES OF PARALYSIS
Two Women Stricken, One 25,
Other Older, Showing Vir
ulence of Epidemic.
MAY MA It THE HOLIDAY
l'lght more deaths from Infantile
paralysis, one In Manhattan nnd sevm
In Brooklyn, were reported to the Health
Department up to 4 o'clock yesterday
afternoon. In the same twenty-four
hours prior to that time eighty new sum ,
peeled cases were reported, but It w,i ,
expected that not more than about sixty
of them would turn out to bo true cases
of the disease. Tho physicians of th
department had not been able to deter
mine the exact Increase, but the eftlmiiV ,
nf s!tv uns ndvnnced bf Dr. si 1! !
Illattels of the Hoard of Health In
llrooklyn.
Tho virulence of the epidemic was Im
pressed upon the Health Department olli
clats and outside physicians who have
Joined with them to combat Its spread
by tho discovery yesterday afternoon
that two young women, one about 25
years old and the other several ears
her senior, had developed Infantile
paralysis In an unuoually severe form.
The occurrence of the disease la adul'.s
Is decidedly rare. Few uch cases are
known to medical science. Thoe two
were found In a .section of Fl.iOin.-h
already Infected with the disease, ami
the condition of the victims was such
that they were taken to the Kingston
Avenue Hospital at once.
More Stringent .Mrnsures.
Dr William H. Oullfoy, nuperlntend
ent of the Heilth Department, nnd Dr.
(ienrge 1,. Nicholas of the bureau of
preventable diseases said last night that
the Infection of the two women left no
doubt of the seM'rlty and persistence of
the pre, nt epidemic. With that fact Im
pressed upon the Health Department
iittlclaN and their assistants In private
practice plans were drawn for even
mote stringent measures than those now
In nperatl.it. to check the disease. The
special committee of medical experts ap
pointed by Health Commissioner Haven
l.merson to help him will meet early
this w,'ck to bring to bear uion the
situation every means known to medical
science to prevent the ravages of the
disease experienced In l?a"
Accurate figure to shaw the Increase
In the number of rases over night were
not available at the Health Department
yesterday, beiaue It was not possible
to obtain reports that were believed to
'"" x,w malls. I'p to n late hour in
!,", """noon, howe.er. Mr. C.ullfoy ha.l
'-'.
e In the malls, Up to n late hour In
of them In the Kingston Avenue Hos
pltal, llrookljn ; five new cases In Man
X
hattan and approximately seenty-nve
ill S. I
.. " '-'- which were reponeo io iii-i
',,''lt' department bv telephone hyper- ,
M,nK 1,1 '' neighborhood of tho-e whom 1
, ,,. , h ,spa
reported, to the ,
"The number of rases reimrted and
, V .... .. "., J1."L,."1' . . .' ' J
,nH ,.' ' . ' . ,' . ,,r.
Illattels, "show that the epidemic Is
unusuallv vlroln, nn,l r.lllnir
have been receiving renorts of new cases
by telephone all day, but the exact
number Is Indeterminate. Tho telephone
operator who took the calls was so
Itu-nmriAi! (hit 1,a tt u-n nu.lu.
tntKi Tllc tn,itIon otherwise s about
the same. The disease Is spreading In
the same localities where It has been re
ported In the last few weeks, but It Is
also showing 11 tendency tn Include sec
tions hitherto not affected."
Male Authorities Itusy.
While the local authorities are using
eer. available means to cheek the
I spread of the disease and care properly
, lor the afflicted, precautionary measures
design, d to prevent Its spread to coun-
jni'" "1nlrj,r" '' w;strhcst.r.
i I'litnam, ltocklaiul, Suffolk, Orange and
I Nassau counties, In all of which ar
residences of commuters to the city, have
' I ....... Ii-lIpii.iIi.,1 .-,,.,..- lm,MA.ll,AKl
any cases of the dreaded malady whether
in the suspected or well developed
stage
Tw i specialists In Infantile paralysis
In the service of the State Health De
paitineut, Dr. Mattlas Nlcholl and Dr
F M. Mender, chief of the division of
communicable diseases of the depart
ment, will be sent to nny county report
lug the iMelnpnient of a case of Infan
tile paralysis. Hoth p1 -slclans are ex
perts and they are Keeping In close
touch with the situation here.
It Is feared by oIHcIhIm of thn Stnte
department that the disease will spread
Into counties outlying the city. The
disease has spread so easily and
so rapldb within the city, espe
cially In Hrooklyli, that the State
health olllclals bellexe It may be
carried to those counties of the State
which are easily nccesslble to New York
by the thousands of commuters who
pass back and forth every day. Tht
State health olllclals say there Is every
chance of effecting a euro If the ills
ease Is recognized mid promptly treated
In the first stages when the chief symp
toms consist of a fever and languor,
o Letup In Cnmpslgn.
Dr. Heorge L. Nicholas was at
his desk III the Health Department
all day directing the fight under the
direction of Dr. Kmerson nnd Dr. Hill
ings, who were In touch with the work
over lhe telephone, The field forces en
gaged In making an Inspection and In
vestigation to check contagion so far im
It Is humanly possible to do so have
from other hospitals to care for the af
flicted,
It was evident from the Incomplete
fleures available to Dr. Hillings nnd Dr,
Nlrholas that the disease Is spreading
jn the nffected sections, llrooklyn espe
cially, with even more alarming rapidity
than It spread In 1907. Dr. Hillings
asked The Ht'N to repent to-day Dr,
Kmerson's warning to those residing In
the v clnlty or piacnraen nouses to keep
rhlldren sway from pnhlln gatherings of
all k nds. lie wanted mis novice em
phnslzed because of the likelihood of
many suen garnering in-innrmw.
"I was cnlled up this morning," said
rntirlniirrf on Fifth Pnpr,
TO SUN AND PRESS READERS
The New
Price of
TheSun.
The now retail price of Thk SUN is one cent in
Greater New York, Jersey City nnd Ncwnrk. It is two
cents everywhere else no more.
Newsdenlers now buy Tun Sun nt the same price
nt which they buy other New York one cent mornlnjr
papers. It should be sold at the snme price.
The editorial department of Tun Sun has been
Editorials
Changed to
Laat Page.
transferred from the middle to the last page. This
chanpo greatly improves the makeup, enabling us to
concentrate the news of the day in the front of tho
paper, whero it should be.
With the editorial page in the centre, this is im
possible with so much space necessarily allotted to de
partmental news such news as financial, sporting, real
estate and miscellany altogether, say, six or more
pages, nnd those pages should follow the news of the
day in sequence.
But there is another and very important reason
for transferring Tin: Sun editorials to the back page.
Obviously the best page in a newspaper is its first page.
The next best space is the last page of the newspaper.
Because it is the next best space Thk Sun editorials are
entitled to it.
Frank A. M u n s e v.
WAR SONGS SVNG IN
MEXICO CITY PARADES
Cnrran.a VMts All of the
Drillinir ramps and lla
ransriies Yoluntecr.
V'if CaMt nt'P'itcfi to Tor Sin
Mr.xtco Citv, July Patriotic street , T1u ,,1KUl Ml.x(.(( Jul). ( ,,v ttlrp,p(l,
parades have characterized the !..,,, ,-0umbiis, N. M.) Hostile move
choruses of men leading In the singing ,,., of ,',runZ-l troops In northern
of the national hymn ana improi-e.i
s-ings with the refrain. "War, war um
the Invader."
Thousands of men and boys formed
In parades. Ocn. Carranr.a. with his
staff, islted nil of the drilling tamps,
personally haranguing the volunteeis to
stand tlrm at their posts If war should
ensue. Despite the demonstrations the
f-w Americans remaining were abso
lutely unmolested, although they walked
'J.Si.r.irZlerate.lUstone.-o.,.!
Iderably. seemingly dlsi-osed to ami 1
hr goo.1 Intentions of l'resl.lent Wil
son. Slxtv-slx Americans left this
morning on the Vera Crur. train, re
siding to tho State Department s last
warning These Americans were mostly
trom the outlying districts, who had Just
arrived. llodgers sas he has not le
ceUisl messages from the United States
fot is hours. There are no iniiie.itions
of new frontier conlllcts, although eety
-,.l,J rt,,u
" ,- "," . ... lu.
,,.,..1
T!
uupres:
oik I'ress Club Has tn.uiu a uetp
slon here and Is the subject of
Kenernl comment, ine papers pi im in
largo tM.e the statement of the Uieslden-
that the American people .do not wan?
war anil that he Is not the servant of
those WHO O.-Slie u
''r,' Mexico,
Another item which Is glxen a prom
inent place III the press Is a despati h 1
from LI I'aso stating tliat tne ui.erauon
of the American troopers taken prisoner
at Carrlzal has caused a good Impression
In the l'nlted States and a more syinpa-
thctlc feeling toward the people and
(loveriimont of Mexico.
Stories that the American forces are
i....im ruirAitltti- nnrllive-ird 11M1I tb.it
. . tchll, lliiti hv. nb.i tiilimeil
1..1 i....i... r.,.ni r.M,ii.
are lieillg "lil ' '""'.
UKiZTX?nXrttx
and have caused considerable elation
among the people.
According to travelers arriving from
the State of Huerrero. the fon-tltutlojul
torcw nave ooi..ioe luixii "'
Important places In that State, which lias
been a hotbed of brigandage for years
The Zapatista General. De In O, was
seriously wounded In a battle with Con
stitutionalists under Hen Mender, ac
c irdlng to a despatch received by tho
Secretary of State from Hen, Mender. ,
This success, coupled with the recent
victories over the Zapatistas reported
by Oen. Gonzales, has revived the hopes
of the Constitutionalists that a death
blow has been struck to Zapitlsm.
The recruits who orfcreii their ser.
c'rnsTs ,w.!hhe!"d,s,,,',i;,:ei;i
first military Instructions to-day In
Mexico city nnd neighboring towns,
WOMEN'S $100,000 FOR HUGHES.
T I
sirnluhl Slnrls Ciimpiilun
' "
Mrs.
Fund Wllh iprs
The Women's National Committee of
the Hughes Alliance will start a cam-
nalgtl to raise 1100, lion to aid the He-
,oi,ll...-.n nominee for President Mrs,
Wll 1 1 rd I) St ri I ght I ho fl rst ti i c me
Vxlllnrd D. Mr.ugni, inn nrsi n tome
forwaid with a pledge, has promised to
L.rii.i tr..nnn aeeor.ll.nr to tin
contribute ii.,oou, according to an an-
nouncement made Inst night.
Mnerlcanlsiu will lie the keynote
the women s campaign, and this note
hn amnwlMl (in lliftonnndpnco M:iv iti
- ' . . . -
all the women of the coun ry the com-
mlttce can reach. Telegrams were sent
last night to women In every State ask
ing them to send pledges to the head
tpiarters of the committee In the Hotel
Astor, .Mrs. jonn nays iiamniomi, it
was said, bjs also promised to coll
tribute, LABOR CLEARING HOUSE NEXT.
Will lie I'ntler IHreetlon of lioiiil
Krnllon lliireitii,
A clearing bou for labor, under the
direction of the Immigration Hiiieau ut
F.llls Island, Is planned by the Commis
sioner of Immigration, Frederic C, Howe,
He has asked for the rooperatlon of tho
Merchants Association In building It up.
The association has agreed to give Its
aid, although It entered a protest against
a proposal that the clearing house shall
not supply labor whero strikes or lock
nuts exist.
Under the plan the association will bo
the central organization for einpln)crs
needing labor. Employers will let the
association know what labor they need,
and the association will forwaid I e -
quests to the clearing house, which will
supply workers when It can.
CARRANZA TROOPS IN
CHIHUAHUA ACTIVE
Hostile Movements hVpnrlcd
at llcadiiiartfi-s of
I'crshiiiir.
l'ciisniNn's IlKAogiAiiTi.ns in
Chihuahua are rcorted here
Instead of dreading rain ollliere of
the expeditionary force ate wishing foi
it so that tho newly made roadls-d will
settle Ituinbllngs of war are drlftltii
In from the border, but the smoothnes"
of camp life is undlstuibed.
The first malt In set en days ntrived
here this afternoon
IIAMOS CHASM! VILLA
Deported I'lirrniiststn (ipiiernl Has
l.oeilted llnmllt Lender.
Kl. I'aso, Tex , July 1" Ameilt',in to
night brought reports that Villa Is n!le
and encamped with 7 tin men III Itlo
Florldo, while Hen. lgnaclo It.imcs', com
matidiiig the C.irrniua forces In that le
gion, Is tit lllg to effect his c.lplUI
It' was 'stated also that t'cttc-i s" from
Villa to Ids dl followers hae b. en n
cetwil Iji Chihuahua city and ollur
points urging them to come back. The
Americans said the Carianza tiovern
ment Is credited with refusing to ac
cept Villa's surrender
Hlo Florldo iv about forty miles south
... iin,t... nt... ....... ...i .i.....
..,t,l(tl. , ,,tt, f mirr ,i.-,-
ir.. Cilivln Contreris -nul the lell
known bamllls Ftlt and Hel,;-, "
Frlbe and Heltran ofTeted to surrender
to Hen. Hamos, It Is said, but 1111
t with
leius.u.
Tofj p.m pop ARMY MOUNT
, Au" x "'
.
' ' Wolf r lhe Till. Iteulo
,t h,.,,,,,!,, n( me llrpif.
I Hoe...,,,
N.
July
-Alljt-li.il.
Albaiiv late
Stotesbiiry went bark to
.o.olehl hnvlmr s..llle,l 11, .. lf .1...
tlumh.it had been aroused by the re-
f of .(.vollty.
f , IteK,m,t
I . . ... . . . . r,,,r... ,.,r
I
s,r,.,i ... M.rl...,. ,,,,.1 wii ro.iimnnd the
. (, , , f the Sex entyfoiu th here
rilllrs,n 1)f itiooklyn will lea.l the
Seventy-fourth to the .Mexican border,
entraining ptob.iblv Mondnv evening
Col Wolf Is admittedly" In exielicnt
divslcal condition and Is a noted Ion-
ill-tamo walker, but bis weight of more he was also In touch with I rencb he.nt
'han .1in pounds, nil olllceis seem to quarters by telephone. i p,,,,,,,
agiee, would liar him trom l isletal ser-
vlte in his rank as colonel because of the
ililllculiy In llndlng mounts
BUDGET TO BE $1,050,000,000
Congress I'repiirliiu In llxeeed I'nsl
It ecord hy Unit lllllliin.
I Wasiiisctos. Julv 2 -Congress Is
I piepirlng to complete its programme of
Mnanclal prepaiedness According to
1 e.,iloi.ites based in IlL-ores eooinlti-.l bv
i chairman Fitzgerald of lb" House Ap-
, proprlntlnns Committee and Increases
I i " " "' . ' : . "
oinniiitres, n- unmi .ii'in ..pri.tiioiir
' "my total i,.',h,imii.,iiiiii, exceeding ny
i "re tlutn fSni.oiViO.. the record t.f any
Congress
pi' Vious t oiu.n ss.
LaH week He presentat ve l-'llzivrald
' ., .. ' , " ,, ,,
I' . ,V. ' " ... , .1 .1'
111,7' ".''. ' ,,7," , , , ' ',
'
1 " . . t .
iK)(t,flO(i. Hlnct tni'ii t u St-nato Naval
, l.lli;iMlll. haH ,,,,,. 0arly j;,o,ooo.0n
t(, t)l( nvai ,m j,nd the Military Com-
nitttee has Increased the 1 1 X2,0nn,0iin
army appropriation measure bv approx-
Iinatelv UnD.Onii.OOn '
'" '
$550,000 A YEAR FOR WORKERS.
. u '"
siiiiriitu i'iiiii.
CMK'.vuo, July 2. A savings and prollt
snaring rutin ror' employees was an
nounced to-day by Sears, Itoebuck Co.
The plan, which Is nno of the most
liberal and comprehensive of lis Kind,
went Into effect liniiit'dlately nnd pro
vides for tho contribution annually bv
the company ot B per cent, of Its net
earnlngs without deduction of dlv Idcnils,
The savings feature provides for the,
voluntary participation of eveiy cm
plnyet! of three years or more service
upon payment Into tho fluid of Ii per
cent, of his salary.
Hased on last year's profits the plan
would mean an annual contribution by
the company of Jr.f.n, nno.
A limit of $l.'.n a year on the deposits
. i,f nny one employee will prevent higher
salaried workers from participating too
largely In the fund.
I
GERMAN GUNNERS
FIGHT TO THE DEATH
liritish Overwhelm (iiini.Min
of Vi'icoiirt After Itom
hnrdmcnt. ItATTKIMKS IWVOYEHKO
Hliinsl! llEADqUAIITKII IN I'llANCi:.
July 2 (S I. M.), via London, July It
(12:15 A. M.). There Is rejoicing In
til" Ilrltlsh army at the cloe of the sec
ond day of the battle of the Homme over
ll,e taking of Frlcourt, which the cap
tin, of M-'imetJ! and Montauban ester-
.lav left ns a sharp Herman salient. The
Ilrltlsh troop rushed through the il.-liri,
ot lire, nnd, after a heavy pounding, the
Ilrltlsh tro,.ps rushed through the debrla
i taking the survivors prisoners, at
, . . lock this afternoon.
i Liter they stormed Frlcourt wood, ami
' M n the m-lghlor!ng hill It could be seen
II-. t ii the Hermans were forced from
It.- wood they were holding tip their
1 1' "I'-s In surrender.
I.lne .rer Winers.
Ii, luded In the same panorama was
lhe bombardment of La llolsselle. fol
lowed by a Ilrltlsh Infantry attack. When
it faced the machine guns, which the
artillery had not reached, the line ad
vanced unwaveringly Into the Herman
s- Itlons nnd was lost to view. The
possession of Frlcourt and the wood
means command of the ground toward
l.aiMume. nnd the Herman guns, which
had been hidden In the valleys of the
front, have now been disclosed to tho
liritish observers and must withdraw or
be ma out of action.
North of the Ancre the day was quiet,
except for vicious in nid out tlghilng in
the sections of the Mist Iliu Herman
trenches b.Id by the Ilrltlsh. Here the
Henn'ins In great force In the day at
tack kept to their dugouts forty feet
deep during the bombardment. They
then lushed out with mai-hln. gun" to
iee Ive the Ilrltlsh ndvanee t'lstcr
troops drove through the rldee north of
Thlepoal most gallantly, but were forced
to retire before the fire of the machine
guns.
The northern attacks yesterday red
as a diversion which led to the sui ss
at l-'ncourt to-day. as at Montaubm
the ptevious day. Hxerywhere the Her
man michlne guns were numerous, and
tin- gunners fought to the death as the
Ilrltlsh closed In on them. A Herman
counter attack at Montauban yo-terday
was mowed down by Hrltlsh machine
guns
Tnle if Heroism,
The weather ,i fair and hot to-day.
rnerrlftil to the wounded. I Here aie,
nw-v tales of heroism Scotch pipers I
played th. Ir regiment to the chaire A j
pil He of 1 when all the otllccrs of hl
company had been killed, went on and
captured a machine gun
Many Herman deid are Ijlng on the
';,',.,u".'1 V'14,"," 1,y. n'.,"'";!' M7.n.,.U
ban and MameU. Tht Ilrltlsh Utter
luarers were busy to-day bringing In the
Herman wounded.
Infinite care and pains bad b. en
token to keep (.evict the impaia-
Hons for the great ofTeuslxe and the
kHlfiti nf Iho Him iflii.r.. tltn lilrr ilrtl.t
w:,s 10 b.. .:..!... For weeks tin.
in , ,.-,iU ,r... ...I 1 li n... w .1
wOK wem oil. WHO silence it-'uiieu on
the part of all of.icers but most of th.-m
"'' so limited to their own areas that
."ey oui not Know xwiai w;ia n.iipt'iiiiig
111 the otheis,
At all tho messes. Including the ofll-
ceis', tho subject was barred from ill
i usslon. although all knew. The only
spoken referencts took place at roiisiilta-
Hons, and the otlUM.it orders naturally
bote on the matter. Hattery empl.ice-
im ills were constructed and battel les
"ie "until in i---.-iii.-i. now ,,,.,.,.1-
marched up at night with no lights. The
wile placid in position and troops were
soldiers and company olllceis uuderstooii i.miuei .ui.uk.
onlv that thev were ex.ected to lene In Champagne the Freii.h troops are
their tieiiches at a certain time with a carrjlng out reconnolti ing raids siml
c rtaln objective. 'ar to those which jueieded the Anglo-
French offensive ,11 the legion of the
HiiIk Milieu I p lleoduiuirier.. Somnu. As on the front further not th.
Hefore the action Hen, Sir Douulas
Hefore the action Hen, Sir Douglas
llalg moved his temporary headquarters
nenier the front, where the chiefs of his
staff departments wcie at call, and re-
p"rts from all s, ctlons came promptly bv
telegraph and telephone, which cu rled
'his Instructions back to the front, ivhlle
vx no ine .times. oeKiinniis ai i " in
the morning, b s o'clock the staff had
reports as to whether the different unlls I'rTmviiun, v I.i London, July 'J The
had alic.nly held the llrst line of Hir- Kiisslan Duma to-day adopted a bill nc
man Irenclies or weie advancing beyond ,.,)r,mg to peasants the same civil rights
I lilts ll was Known now i.ir e.u-ii nn ;tH are given to other t'1,'1
, culled out the part assigned to It Dllll- population
cuity in keeping up communicaiion'.
through the curtain of shell tiro and
luakllig observations through the smoke
wer not the smallest Items of the prep-
.nations.
liliriiulle rirevxorU. IIUplii.
During the bombardment the Asso-
elated I'ress correspondent made a pie-
,rai , reserves .
, ...i ,,. ,, ,
"' ,.' . .'".V " .........
M-w of the shelling In the darkness
which was probably the most terrible
iirVworks of all tune
uxi 'la of I r w rks or all tinu.
Fur In the distance those Hashes In
1 ., nick succession are the French T.'.s on
,,,,, ioiw above the Sonime nther.
j n.,,,, f ,,, Mlm. Kln.l far lo the"
u.in.,1. v,..
i:rui iwr
the small c
Hrltlsh field guns Nearby
illbres make ugly shaip
fashes, and the big calibres larger ones
I as the missiles go sw tsniiig tnroiign ine
dewy night air and burst In balls of
expanding llame.
I . .. 1.. 1 I.I ..
V ll.lllllllg Sliet-l is I. Ill IIIIUM .t IHIKi'i
and that Is the barrage lire of the Her-
man guns anticipating a llrlllsh attack.
A hint? blUowtne; ctow. as of nbosiilio-
tescent mists that Is the spray of high
explosltcs from the mortars sent from
behind the llrlllsh on to the Herman
trenches. ssnecis hm (.pains or man
Iliaou llglllllliiKS snov tret-n linn oiiiin- ;
lugs or ruined
walls In weird sll-
houettes.
Flares l.lubt I p Hnllle,
As set pieces the Herman Hates
slowly rise, with dependable, steady il-
I lumlnatloii between the trenches, Hreen
nnd red and other signal lights add to
- ; their variety until the eyes ache and
sensations are numbed with the thought , . casement declares he has
1 of the struggle that Is proceeding. hone ilio veidlci w ill be s. t aside
Iteuter's correspondent at ItrltWi bead- ' "w '
iiuarters In France suggest!, tlmt the, HrllUli Losses n mil
t nnparalivo tcebleness of thn Herm.in '
artillery response to the llritlih boin
I baidment arose from the s-ui'e i.iuie
the shortage of food In the Hcim-in
trenches, nnmely, the deadly character of
the nlmnst ceaseless British bsrrnse tire
BRITISH VICTORS IN
SHELL HOLE FIGHTS
Wounded Soldier Snys the
(lermnn Trenches Were
(Mown to Hits.
.MEN CHAIMiEI) CIIEEIUXO
L.1.ST10.V, July 2. A wounded soldier,
one of the first to reach London, gave
the following account of the Infantry
fighting In the new allied offensive:
"I Everything possible seemed to hate
been thought of befoiehand, and for
weeks we had been having rehearsals
of every movement. We were all ready
for the charge by G o'clock, but artillery,
which had been pounding nil night, con
tinued tho argument for an hour. Then
the bombardment slackened, and our
pulses quickened as wo realised our mo
ment wuh nt hand.
"The prellinwiaiy signal 'went down
the Hue and a few moments later came
the command to go forward. Our fel-
' ins hopped ocr tho parapets and ton-
i- toss the uneven ground to wlierc the
llrst lines of the Herman t tenches used
to be. As a matter of fact those
trenches had ceased to (lt. They were
liattered to bits.
"We .lid not lltctally charge the
enemy's advanced lienches. There was
nothing to chaige. What we did charge,
however, and charge quickly, were our
Mii shell holes behind the Herman
trwiches. They wete huge hole where
our shells had dropped during the week
and In these hol.t. the Hciinans awaited
us with machine guns. As we ap-
proaehed they turned the guns upon us.
"Some of our fellows carried bombs
and hurled them Into the holes as soon
as they got within reasonable, range.
Hut we did not finish them all In that
way There did not happen to be a
bomber handy every time a machine
gun sang out from a shell hole, s our
lads. Instead of waiting for some one
with u bomb. Just charged the holes,
often with a whoop on their lips they
to k flying lear. Into holes.
"It was a thrilling affair while It
laMed. A dozen or perhaps a score of
men would converge on a hole and take
a leap almost simultaneously The next
moment the hole was filled with a strug
irllng mass of ilrltlsh and Herman
humanity, while tho guns, of course.
were silent.
GERMAN ATTACK ON
THIAUMONT FAILS
.
MrOllir V OITCS Scilt AtfMIISt
Field Work Dispersed
by French Fire.
, . A M k
dlre.-tcd by the Herman, last night
against the sector of the Thlaumont
field work, which W again In French
n.,n,ls. The attacking forces suffered
''eavy losses and were dispersed.
This
- v e, .,,,na
.. xma.l numbe.s. which were easily
r'imlsed-
o- ... ,,i.- uu-n mi r.-eioi
violent artillery activity on both sides
Is reported west and south of Vnux. No
Infantry action lias yet h veloped in
till- region
Considerable Infantry lighting took
Place last night on the west bank of
the Mcuse. The Hermans attacked
, nnttheast of Avocourt wood and gained
a looting in auv.inceu trench fitments,
- .
. but weie tliiown b.uk by a French
mcse rawing parties, once having pem-
-'.' "ik !' ues, ,-,. living pent-
t rated the i.er.nan trenches, cleared
tl'ein of Hermans by the use of li.md
grenades ami then returned to their own
lienches
RUSSIA AIDS PEASANTS,
i;in
Tlieiii Sum,. I It II
Oilier I losses.
it lu in a
of the
. jaw p.-sed In IM'ii supiresstd the
,i..i,, ,.t i,,..manis to elect detmii... t,. ,',
Zeintv. a dMrl.t ass,.iblv con.p I
of representatives who orlglnallv wete
lecteu n tne peasantr.x, hnu-cholilers
in the tow tw and landed proprietors. The
povter of the noble landowneis was in-
en an d by the act of lS'ni. ami the
. .. .aT.V.tn- fV,.. , M .n'. .
. .. ..... V' , . ' '
",v ' " ln " ilul
- - - -
WATCH FOR THAT SUBMARINE,
skippers Keep t it re fit I Lookout,,
bill Nothing of I Hunt,
' All steaiushlis In j esterd.iy, p.irtleu- ,
larly craft of the Alll.n, were on the
1 lookout for the Herman submarine hUp.
posed to ne coming tn'.s way with
i friendly greeting to the Fulled States.
, Dlllccrs of the Ciiti.ii'der Alauula and
.l. (n,n,lnn.. ,1...- S'..... .. ...
tne l,lii mill inni ,.-v lurh were HI-
! dined to regard the passage of the
I "trader"' as a Herman Jest The Italian
I liner Huultelmo. from the Meillterrntieiin
picked up wlreltss messages ro,e that
the skipper guen-eii were from Herman
submarines, but he saw nothing of under-
sea uo.us, purist opicnuy or otherwise
CASEMENT APPEAL JULY 17.
I nil de in oed Traitor Has No Mope
erdlel Will He s,. ,,.,
Lonpon, Julv 2 The lieailng of tin-
appeal of Sir linger C.istment, who was
,,,,,, ."H,. ,. ...... , .... ' f"
found guilty or high treason on .tune 2H
- irnif ' n'.' in ii ' i in. st x
ns Uiniun. July 2 The casually list
the past week ,'ontnlus the names of
:u:i olTlceis of whom '.M were killed, and
. n.mia men, of whom 2 on; were Killed
I
ALLIES SMASH
GERMAN LINES;
TAKEFRICODRT
Make Big fiain in Second
Day of Great Drive and
Hold Ground Won.
XKAKLY 10,000 TKUTONS
TAKEN AS 1MUS0XERS
French Capture Cnrlu Vil
lage and Hepnlse Heavy
Counter Attacks.
HT'SSIAXS PUSH ON
WEST OF KOLOMEA
Italian Advance on Tren-
titio Front Continues
Successfully.
l'lit creat ltrltlsh and IVriali nf-
fenslvo which lifgnn Sattinlay morn
lnii In the Soinini' and Ancre hectors
of northern Franco eoiitlnui'il with In
tvnslty all tiny .vest onlay, lloth Ilrlt
lsh ami iTonch war olTlccs reKirt a
htenily nilviiiici' nt t'ortnln nilnt,
lint .'iiK al-n nt fiirinlilatili' Herman
roslstitnoe.
rrlcmnl, tin iiiiHii'tniit town thrtf
nillos oust of Allien, 1ms fnllon tn tho
ltrltlsh arms, whllo tlu I'lvneh hao
taken lhe vlllnt't! nf Cnrlii, which lies
to tho southeast.
'I'lio French liavo luUcii 6,000 pris
oners, uecorilltiK to tin; latest estl
mates. The ltrltNIi, nfier rotMirtliiK
the I'liptilt'o of 3,0011, Inter ileclaretl
that the estimate was too low.
The Hermans have not oeiisel In
their efforts, around Venlitn. Berlin
iliflares that Kreneh altaeks nualiist
the famous Thlaiitnont work were re
IiuImsI by iMirtalns of lire. I'arls an
iimincf. that this strategic wltloll
Is held by the French.
The Herman official hlaleiiient siys
that tit several points of tho llfst line
lienehes aloiiK the Sotnnie the enemy
forces gnlnod success nml were able
In advance.
I'etrograd reports that Aiisirlim po
slliims west of Koloini'ii, In HallcMd,
lime been taken by storm after In
tense flghtlnc. with the t'liptiitf of
L',000 prisoners. Tile Allslite-Her-malis
in Viilliynin are iiiiiklnu iles
peinte eounler attnek.
Tin Itnllaiis lire pushing their
stioiiK offensive mi lhe Trentlno front.
Along almost the entire Austi-o-Itulluu
front tho Italian- are foivlnn the llu-lil-Ing.
I'lilCOURT CAPTUHKD.
Ilrlllslt nnd French MitUr .ev
tiiilns un l.ttiig; l-'rtiul.
titcntt Vutilr tltimiil, tn Tliri hex
LiiMHiN, July 2. Ill the face of a
dogged leslstauco nml ot frequent
counter attacks of gnat violence t'rte
liritish and Fremli forces engaged In y
tin- great offensive, north and south of
tin. Soniiiie cniitlniiid their lidviiiit'e to
day and maile important Itcsh gains,
Frlcourt. tbrei' miles east ot Albeit,
i which vviin practically surrounded by
the liritish in the tlrst bouts of the
drive, fell Into their bunds at -' uV.uck
. .
"" "",""' "I" r.u. ui,niiiis, nau
bei-n " proglchs there since the begm-
nmg of the ollcnslve. The town it. on
. ... ..
tne railway inun Ainei t to i ermine v ai
Cuubles
. , With the liritish liol.ling Mametz
nnd Montaiibiiii on Hi- railway tiitlhcr
-oust uinl piesslng in iiom the north
anil tho 1'ieiich dominating the Curlu
region to ilie southeast, the Herman
forces defending the Frlcourt sector
were In imminent danger of being cut
olf from the test of tho Hentian line.
Cnrlu VIIIiik.' TliLcii,
The village of Curlu, the outskirts of
which tnaiketl the furthest point
reached by tho French north of the
Soiiime lu the llrst day of the offensive,
was taken liy them early to-day after
heavy lighting. Iiter In the iliy tho
French stormed n iiiany east of the
' tow n which thn (lernrins had organized
ln(() u powerful defensive position,
In the first two das of the drive
thn Allies have taken In thn neighbor
hood of lO.oiiii prisoners, The French
War Office announced to-night tlmt the
French troops had taken mote than
i'i.ikio prlhonets, including l.'n oitlicts A
statement Issued b the liritish VV.ir
(Mike t o-l 1 1 K In said that up I.i noon to.
dav some sou more prisoners l.ad been
' taken between the Ancm and the Som.).e.
no . bringing the total taken by the Ilrltlsh
"l t' S.SOii. inni a 1 iter statement Issued
to-night, without giving detinue figure,
,h'11 11 ''.is been determined that
UiP earlier tigures were too low
F.uU last night tee Hermans along
fur the tit'itlti nail of tie front of the .Isln
launched counter altaiks n an cife-it lo
I recover snmi of the giimnil lost Them
cjuuler attack weie ni .ji. niu ui-l
i
