vvjf " "' " l!'lHfV'Bp'T"TTca,r IBqj'
f ,, TrtH-fc ijw o --jflpjT-
efST-j--'r'""T ''
Mrw
u o
Cuenmn
NIGHT
EXTRA
NIGHT
EXTRA
fmmiJ Jk&A-
VOL. II. NO. 2G1
I'niLADJCLl'niA, MONDAY, JULY tf, 1 910.
CoriMonT, 1818. tit Tni Foua Lroact Courier.
PRICE 02UB CENT
Tyw t wtft'R jws'iis'"'1""
FRENCH HURL TEUTON TROOPS
FROM LINE THREE MILES LONG;
BRITISH PUSH PAST FRICOURT
Germans Driven From Between Mereau-
court Wood and Assevillers South
of Somme -Lose Herbecourt
Village, Paris Says
English Capture New Positions in Drive on Bapaume.
31 Teuton Battalions Crumple Beneath Blows
of Allies Artillery Fire Increase's
in Flanders
Tho Anglo-French nrmlca are continuing their advance in tho
great offensive begun Saturday morning from Arras south to the
Somme and tho objective of which is the Peronne-Cambrai-Lille
railway. Tho Germans are fighting desperately to save their com
munication lines and have succeeded in checking the British north
of tho Sommo.
Tho great drive, which began with a terrific thrust at the Ger
man lines, has now resolved itself into a steady rolling movement
with Bapaume as the British and Peronnc as the French objective.
French troops have advanced on a front 10 miles long, extending
from tho outskirts of Hardecourt, north of the Somme, to a point
south of Estres village. Having slashed the first line positions of
tho Germans in the sector of the Somme, the French are now pound
ing away at the second lino. The French War Office in a commu
nique issued today announced that three miles of the German second
line between Mereaucourt wood and Assevillers, south of the Somme,
have been captured. The village of Herbecourt has been captured by
Btorm in spite of the furious resistance of the Germans. Between
Estres and Assevillers the Gorman lino, which was defended by 31
battalions of troops, has crumpled beneath the blows of the Allies.
Fricourt, an important town three miles east of Albert, has
fallen to the British arms, while the French have taken the village
of Curlu, which lies to the southeast. Tho British have extended
their lines beyond Fricourt.
The French have taken 6000 prisoners, according'to the latest
estimates. The British, after reporting tho capture of 4000, later
declared that the estimate was too low.
Tho capturd of Friz, south of the Somme, has wiped out the Ger
man salient which extended into tho French lino at that point and has
also placed the Allies in a position to menace importanfmilitary
roads.
Tho French are now only flvo mile3 from Peronno.
Poronno iB a railroad centre of vital importance to the German
lines, feeding tho salient between tho Aisno and the Oiso, comprising
what is known as tho "Bloody Anglo.''
Late dispatches from tho front show that tho German line has
been bent back from five to seven miles by tho mighty offensive of
the British and French troops.
Military critics hail this achievement as one of remarkable
Importance in view of tho strength of the German positions and the
great amount of artillery and ammunition massed behind the Ger
man front.
The British fire in Flanders has been greatly intensified. Rot
terdam dispatches state that tho British are expected to strike a
terrific blow in the Flanders sector.
German troop3 captured the Damloup works, northeast of Ver
dun, but were driven out in a counter attack.
Paris dispatches state that the German attacks at Verdun have
already been slackened, due to the Allied offensive.
FRENCH TAKE THREE MILES
OF SECOND-LINE TRENCHES;
ADVANCE TOWARD PERONNE
AMERICA'S RICHEST WOMAN DEAD
i $sr
PARIS, July a.
In a brilliant night attack that threw
the aermana back on a wide front, French
troops 'last night captured the Milage of
Herbecourt, on the second lino of German
defenses, advancing' to within flvo mllea of
the heart of Peronne, one of tho Immediate
objectives of the allied offensive.
The advance was made on a five-kilo-metro
front (about three mllea). The
French swept forward from the Mlreau
court wood, near tho Wver Somme, to a
point west of the village of Assevillers.
Tho official statement Indicated that of
about 39,000 German troops defending the
sector of the front near Peronne, nearly
11,000, forming 31 battalions. Buffered terrl
bln losaea and were badly disorganized.
The rest of the ofllclal statement follows:
The combats south of the Somme
were entirely favorable to the French.
During Sunday evening and Sunday
night the French entirely occupied on
flve-kllometre front the two second
position CJennan trenches between
Mlreaucourt Wood and up to Assa
vlllsrs. Between these two points, during the
course pf a brilliant encounter, the
French carried Herbecourt Village.
Toward Awre, in the region of Dan
court, the Desloges Wood was cleaned
of the enemy by French grenade recon
naissance parties.
North of the Somme there were no
German attacks during tho night on
our newly gained positions.
South of Assevlllora the French made
further progress, spreading (heir ad.
vance on the south bank of the Somme
to the village of Estrees, seven and a
half miles southwest of Peronne,
North of Estrees Village and between
Estrees and Assevillers, the French
made important gains, capturing pris
oners and heavy artillery pieces.
Information now at hand shows that
19 German battalions took part it the
defense of the newly carried positions.
Thirty-one of these battalions, having
sustained th heaviest losses, are com
pletely disorganised.
Most of the prisoners captured by our
forcjs on Saturday and Sunday are ex-
CeaUau&l an !' Xwa, Cluuui Xw
MILITARISM AGITATES
TEACHERS' CONVENTION
miKiy.'tis
Mrs. Hotty Green, on
circles, died at her ho
of
)Jne i
tho most rilcturcsciuo fiirurcs in financial
in Now "York' today of senility. Sho was
in her Slat year.
HETTY GREEN DIES,
LEAVING MILLIONS
WON IN LONG LIFE
Skilled as Financier, .She
Was One of World's
Richest Women
AN ECCENTRIC FIGURE
Drill in Public Schools Big Issue
Before National Educa
tion Association
NEW Tonic. July a. Whether "Beany"
and "Plupy" and millions of other Ameri
can schoolboys shall sacrifice part of the
time at the old Hwlmmln' hole In learning
to shoulder arms is being dismissed by
teaoher" today. Indorsement of military
training In public schools Is one of the big
Issues before the National Education Asso
ciation which went into session here. This
Is the biggest convention ever entertained
in New York.
It's all in the handa of the female of the
species, too. Led by Mrs. Cora O. Lewis,
of the Kansas Board of Educational Ad
ministration, the school "marms" control
70 per cent of the votes lit the' conven
tion. When the mattor comes before the
business session Friday the reception Is apt'
to rest on the Impression made upon the
women In their speeches by William How
ard Taft and Major General Leonard Wood.
Dr. David Starr Jordan leads the fight for
the pacifists, while P. P, Claxton, United
States Commissioner of Education, Is lining
Up the militarists. There are 30,000 dele
gates in, attendance.
In the flrBt cUsh today the pacifists won
out when the textbooks by the American
School Peace League were adopted by the
Com'-!' tee on Textbooks. All war maps
and aetalls of battlefields are eliminated
from the history textbooks Indorsed. Only
the causes, spirit and result of wars will
be treated.
O. S. Wescott, of Chicago, the man who
discovered the "football face" as a char
acteristic type of college football players,
is on hand and promises to give the con
vention a thrill when he uncovers his "war
face," a characteristic type of men who are
militarists and military training advocates.
Business sessions of the convention will not
be hold, until Friday. This afWrnoon ex
President Taft, an honorary president of
the American School Peace League, is
scheduled to address the convention. On
Wednesday Major General Leonard Wood
wiU speak, and others for and against mili
tary training will have a chance to mike
a hit with the women who control the
votes.
At a meeting of the National Council
today man of removing politics from tbe
teacberr pension funds were discussed.
NEW YORK. July 8. Mrs. Hetty Green,
one of the richest women In tho world, died
ct her home here today. She had been In
111 health for aomo time. Mrs. Green was
83 years old.
It was reported a week ngo that Mrs.
Green had suffered a paralytic strode, but
this was denied by her son, Colonel Edward
Green, who stated this his mother was
Buffering from ailments incident to old nge.
For months Mrs. Green's physical con
dition has been such that she could not
give her personal attention to her vast
fortune, but In tho meantime her affairs
were administered by her son.
Hotty Howland Iloblnson Green was a
woman with a purpose. She aspired to be
the richest woman In tho world. Her lovo
for piling up dollars dominated the thought
and action of her entire career. She gave
up society, quarreled with her family, an
tagonised her business associates, lived
miserly, mada money and talked religion.
Sho died an enormously wealthy woman,
but not the richest woman in the world.
Mrs. Green's fortune exceeded 1100,000,
000. How much It exceeded that Is not now
known. Both Mrs. Marshall Field and
Mrs. E. H. Harrlman possess greater wealth
than that, Neither of the last named
women however, built up their fortunes.
Mrs. Oreen added more than 100,000,000 to
the 110,000,000 her parents left her, Before
she got the 110,000,000 she had built up
quits a comfortablo fortune of her own
from the nucleus of a 125 savings account
deposited to her credit by her father.
No one ever questioned that Hetty Green
was the world's greatest woman financier.
As ouch she reigned supreme for ISO of her
10 odd years. She was Hetty Howland
Iloblnson, of New Bedford, Mass., where
she was horn November 21, 1835. Her
parents were of old New England stack,
tracing their ancestors back to the May
flower LOVER OF MONEY
From the moment Hetty Robinson got
the f 35 savings account until the moment of
her death the accumulation of money was
the ruling passion of her life.
In the early days of her career, when she
was a society belle and heiress of New York,
Saratoga and Newport, she lived "fashion
ably and luxuriously. Even then, however,
she Interspersed her coclal activities with
frequent visits to her father's counting
rooms, becoming eventually bis secretary
and flnanolal adviser. Market reports and
investments became a mania with her. She
QUIET PATRIOTISM
MARKS PROGRAM
FOR THE FOURTH
Neighborhood Celebration to
Be Feature of Great Na
tional Holiday
REGATTA ON SCHUYLKILL
Ceatlaoed Fax Xwa, Colons, Zeaz
rrocrnmi of neighborhood eelebratlon of
Fourth of July will be found on Vmgv 3 and thono
of Mxirtinc ccnU are published on tho rluortloc
jmzr.
Tho long-awaited nllled drive by Juvenile
Philadelphia will bo launched at daybreak
tomorrow to mark the 140th anniversary of
the Independence of the United States. An
artillery bombardment will precede Intermit
tent attacks that aro expected to rout slum
bering ciders from Intrenched sleeping
quartern hours before breakfast time.
Many thousands of citizens, timorous and
otherwise, have abandoned the city and are
seeking Bhelter until Wednesday by the
seashore and In mountain retreats.
With the National Guard out of tho city
on its way to tho Mexican border, the police
force Is lessened, and while Superintendent
Robinson has refused all applications for
leavo of absenca and ordered every) mart
on duty for 31 hours, he can only horja that
his subordinates will not be overpowered
In their efforts to see that the law is qbeyed.
NO CITY FIREWORKS. 7
There will be no municipal fireworks.
The Councllmanlo Committee was obliged
to show unusual economy, the appropria
tion, having been cut to 36500 thisyear.
The exercises at Independence Iiall will
be preceded by a street parade. I Headed
by the Police Band and the State .Fenclbles,
the procession will start from tils armory
of the Fenclbtes, Broad and Aljfh streets,
at 0:30 o'clock. Mayor Smith, jthe speak
ers, the Invited guests and the i lembors of
Councils' Fourth of July Comml tee will be
In the procession, which will g to Spruce
street, on Broadl countermarch o Chestnut
street, and down Chestnut stre -X to Inde
pendence Hall.
Patriotic airs wll be sung by too children
of the James Campbell Public Sc tool and tho
Municipal Band will furnish the music. The
Invocation will be delivered b the Rev.
Francis J. Sheehan, of St. Thoi as Roman
Catholic Church, and John H. Baliley,
chairman of Councils' Committal will make
the introductory remarks. Mi yor Smith
wll speak for the city; John 1 . 1C Scott
for the State, and the oration will be de
iivared bv Congressman Simeon D. Feas. of
Ohio. The Rev. William Babf rd, of the'
Methodist Episcopal Church, wll pronounce
the benediction.
Among the city's guests at thi Independ
ence Hall exerelses will be Col&nel Joseph
W. Breen, Captain Henry W. LA, Dr. John
D. Target, Chaplain James A, DsJton, Cap
tain Thomas P. McKegney ani Captain
John J. Gallagher, staff officers of the Army
and Navy Union, U. S. A., and Robert Lee
QUICK NEWS
BRITISH CAPTURE 14.000 GERMANS
BIUTI5H HEADQUAIITERS, Northern Tiftnce, July 3. Tho lo
tni number of Gormnn prisoners taken hy the British In their offen
sive fiont Alms to the Somme is 14,000, it was announced officially
today.
GERMANS DEFENDING LA BOISELLE SURRENDER TO ALLIES
LONDON, July U. Gcihtnn foices defending La Bolscllc, be
tween the Anore Mid Somme Rivers, have surrendered to the Anglo
.French troops, tho British Wnr Offlco announced today.
RUSSIAN ATTACKS AT LUTZK REPULSED
BERLIN, July a, The Russians made unsuccessful nltciupts lo
slop tho Gorman ntlvniico in Volhynla by attacking Inst nlghl cast
nnd southeast of tho forties of Lutsk, the War Office nimounrrd to
day. The attacks were repulsed.
SLHATE VOTES TO ABOLISH FREE GARDEN SEEDS
WASHINGTON, July 3. By a vote, of 'A'i to 21 tho Senate this
afternoon adopted nn amendment to the nj;i (cultural appropriation
bill abolishing; Government fico seeds.
ITALIANS PUSH ON IN POSINA VALLEY
ROME, July H Italian lioops have progressed still farther in
tho 1'ob.a.t valley, pieuaing back the Auilro-IIuugailaus bcfoic thorn,
'ihe Italian ixi Office In malting the announcement said that Au-aiu-Xluugai.au
attacks in the vicinity of Sclz wcic icnulued.
4GG CASES OF INFANTILE PARALYSIS IN NEW YORK
NEW YORK, July 3. A total of -IEG cases of infantile paralysis since January
1 a new record in this dreod dlscasn here woo roKistorod up to noon today, when
67 now canes since Saturday woro rcpnrtod. Today for the first tlmo two cases
appeared op tho lower Kant Sldo and Uurrau of Health olilclnls nrn fcnrfuMhat tho
epldemla will take frarful toll nmonn tho thousands of linblcs there, duo to squalor
and neglect of sanitary precautions.
ALLIED DRIVE CAUSES PANIC IN BERLIN, ZURICH SAYS
ZU1UCII, July 3. Pnnlo has been produced In Berlin by tho steady odvanco of
tho Allies In France, according to Information received hero today. Tho newspapers
nro urging tho people to ho calm, but at tho sumo time thoy print Wcorous protests
against the imo of nHphyxIntlug jms by the nrltlsh, which Is said to ho much, moro
deadly than that employed by the Germans.
FIFTY MORE REFUGEES SAFE IN VERA CRUZ
VBItA CRUZ, Slex., July 3. Fifty moro American refURee-j from Mexico City
arrived hero early today. They will Join tho others awaiting transportation back
to tho United Suites on tho transport Hancock, now in tho harbor. Tho transport
Sumner left yestorday with CC0 Americans on board all protesting bitterly becauso
tho ship's destination was Tampa and not Galveston, ns thoy had hoped.
Sixty American refugees left Manzanlllo today on tho Faclflc Mail steamship
San Jose for Ran Francisco. Moro than 100 additional refugees aro expected to
arrive In Manzanlllo tonight from tho Guadalajara district, to bo sent to tho United
States.
21,000,000 OF MILITARY AGE IN U. S.
WASHINGTON, July 3. Thero aro 21,000,000 able-bodied men in tho United
States between the ages of 18 nnd -IS, nrcordlug to a special report today by the
Bureau of tho Census as to tho nation's resources in men of military fitness. Tho
report was based on 1910 census figures with on estimated 10 per cent, incrcaso In
population.
V WILL REPORT $25,000,000 PUBLIC BUILDINGS BILL
WASHINGTON, July 3. Tho House Committee on 1'ubllc Buildings today deter
mined to recommend to tho Houso next week tho enactment of an omnibus public
buildings bill authorizing tho expenditure of soma 2T), 000,000. The committee de
cided to report tho bill, despite President Wilson's announcement that ho was opposed
to spending nny money for public bulldlngH during tho coming year.
WARNS PRESIDENT TO SUPPORT ANTHONY AMENDMENT
WASHINGTON, July 3. Mrs, F. L. Moran, of Virginia, accompanying a dolega
lion representing- the Woman's National Democratic: Leaguo which called at tho
White House today to glvo the President a check for $1000 for his campaign and to
tell him that the league was behlad him, caused a diversion when she rushed for
ward and warned tho President that ho had bettor support the Susan D, Anthony
amendment to tho Constitution, giving women the ballot. She asserted that tho
4,000,000 women voters of tho West would be against him unless be did so. The
leaders in the delegation were angry and repudiated Mrs. Moran's statements. The
$1000 which the league bad raised was ono of tho first campaign contributions
received.
DIFFER ON NUMBER OF STRIKERS
Union officials and employers today differ In their estimates of the number of
union machinuts who dcclaied a strike Saturday morning, The union officials say
That 10,000 men walked out, while tho employers place the number at 2000. The
exact number will not bo known until Wednesday morning, since the men walked
out Just beforo the half holiday on Saturday, and many of the firms havo closed shop
until Wednesday, Tho men are demanding a straight eight-hour day without a
decrease in wuges. A meeting of the strikers, scheduled to be held In the Broad
Street Theatre yesterdiy, wus called off until Wednesday, because many of the
strikers are out of tho city over the Fourth.
ConUnail en I'M Tbree.Cslmiia On
The Evening ledger will not
be Issued tomorroiojjuly 4
L
COMPENSATION ACT UPHELD BY SUPREME COURT
Pennsylvania's workmen's compensation act of 1916 baa been declared con
stitutional by the Supremo Court of the State, Chief Justice Brown wrote the deci
sion In a test case curried through all of the courts of the Stato by David Iteed, on
attorney and formerly chairman of the Industrial Accident Commission which
"drafted the present law. The law has been in operation since the first of tho
tar, and during that, time compensation has been granted to more than 20,000
workmen throughout the State.
CARDINAL FARLEY ASKS AID FOR IRISH RELIEF FUND
NEW YOIVK, July J.-Cardlnol Farley, In a letter to the pastors In the Arch
diocese of New York, yesterday ordered that a collection for the Irish Relief Fund
be taken up at every service next Sunday. Ills letter read, In part: "The punish
ment which England meted out so mercilessly by execution. Imprisonment or deporta
tion to hundreds, if not thousands, of fathers, husbands and sons, has fallen with
extreme severity and dire misery on countless women and children."
ONLY PATROL ENCOUNTERS SO FAR ON SALONICA FRONT
SALONICA, July 8. Kncounte of patrols havo been frequent and lively in
tho region of LoumnUza, French Aviators bombarded Fort Ruppet and also set flro.
to troopo fUtlQAa uj the B'jumnitza, vaUji,
mtlmtt&mm
PEACE AUGURED
WITH DELAY OF
CARRANZA NOTE
Diplomats for Present Halt
Mexican Chief's Belli
cose Reply
PREPARING FOR PATROL
Border Moves Indicate Strong
Patrol and Not an
Invasion
Pcaco prospects grow brighter In tho
Mexican situation today.
The United States announced it
jvvould not call any moro National
Guard for tho present.
Latin-American diplomats announced
they had succeeded in delaying tho Car
rnnza reply to tho Amcricnn demands,
with tho hopo of eliminating nny bclll
coso passages.
President Wilson's New York speech
allayed fears in Mexico City and cre
ated n feeling thnt tho United Stated
had no designs against Mexico.
Reports have hnd It that tho Car
ranza reply already was in Ambassa- v
dor Dcsignnto Arrcdondo's hands, nnd
was held up to nllow tho Mexicans to
marshal for attack. This is denied,
but may be true since Arrcdondo has
not nlwnys been found wholly truthfuL
Troop movements nnd equipment
moved forward nnd Secretary Lansing
announces thero is no change in tho
situation.
However, operations, with tho Bub
division of tho Southern Deportment of
tho Army, under Generals Funston,
Pershing and Boll, indicate that tho
United States is preparing for an iron
clad border patrol, nnd not for in
vasion. This Is strengthened by tho with
drawal of General Pershing's forces to
n post within 100 miles of tho frontier.
LATIN-AMERICAN ENVOYS
DETER CARRANZA AND AIM
TO PREVENT HOSTILE NOTE
"WASHINGTON, July 3. Pressure by
the Latln-Amorlcan diplomatic, corps fk
Jlexlco City Is tho real reason for delay
In Bending to Washington Carranta's re
ply to the American demt.nd that he out
lino his purposes toward tho American
forces in Mexico.
Latin-Americans here so stated today,
and expressed confidence that they yet
would bo able to set n reply that would sat
isfy the United States. '
"For tho moment." the United States
Government wU not press Carranza to
answer its demands for a statement The
State Department announced today, saylnc
the situation was In statu quo for the
present, especially In view of tho relief of
tension by Carranza's surrender of the
prisoners nt Chihuahua City.
OPTIMISTIC NOTE
The fact that Lansing has made no
effort to extract nn answer from Carranza,
slnco requesting Ambassador Arrcdondo
to speed the reply was interpreted as
meaning that this Government had secret
assurances that Carranza would adjust
the situation It given time.
Indications from tho Department's state-
Contlnuil on rose Two, Column rive
THE WEATHER
Just about 140 years ngo we were born
and our birth caused some discontent on
the other side of the Atlantic, Ever since
that tlmo wo havo had various spells of Ill
ness In 1812, 186, 18C1 and 1808. We
fully recovered from ail these attacks and
bellavo that we can cure ourselves this year
of 1016 as soon as our cane has been proper
ly diagnosed.
What our system needs Is about half a
million soldiers, SOOO great guns and a gross
of aeroplanes. These, used with discretion,
wilt probably keep us In good physical con
dition, no matter which way the wind blows.
Wind -will probably be scarce until the po
litical campaigns open.
FORECAST FOR PENNSYLVANIA
Battd on o new discovery In solar phytloa
PI
WltUS I. UOOBB AND TV. F. CSROTttBRII.
Sunday, July . vntU Wednesday, July
it The week wUl open unsettled and ioith
daily thowtrt. It UI be moderately tcarw,
with (einperafurM tititg during the flnt
half of the cetk.
Wtdneiday, July It, Thunday, July li,
and Friday, July UGool movement will
clear the fhoiocrs Wednesday and lower
.ipriur 10 dearxtt or several days.
Saturday, July is It will 1tatn to gra9
warmer again as the week closes, with fair
weather continuing.
TUB OBNBliAU WBATIIBK UOVH
A1BXTS DVB: I
Coot movement to develop In north,
United States July Will c an nre.
vtovetnent, preceded by wartnen vni
and scattered thunder showers, and
ing fair weaiAer ana iv ueyrecs coote
fhrt MtLAtru aajiflltllfu.
J..mIi m A,1fftiitlf . Hum Jut,i M ,7
4f.V...V. ... w"...., 'W -- .V.
,m nt it mniltrnt character, aanmralht uHffM
with above and without molerial local ef
fect! anywhere.
GOVERNMENT FORECAST
For Philadelphia and vioinity-
Partly cloudy tonight and Tuetdayf
slightly cooler tonight; dicrtasiny
humidity; moderate northwit wvtda,
. , . 1
LOSS1 AND SOUND
CEKTtKICATK XMt oruUUld, cmutcat til
3 warts i'Bluasippia, jsiciris lompsJ
ft
mill
iart Fulsdslspis, Eitctrlc i-ompuur Hi tz
ul of Jwb LuJj- ApvUcHtoa fas bM
1 ft mw cenUcste- CbsTW MMUr,
uUr, ei-40l ConaiODWlt Blif.
rariu
evsc
rL?
KlnUriA'' SU WW nil.
T J W- ! t r J". wOMisj
Udiu' roow RMWlosi Trwlri, Tbjir4r
us. Xtfcn.l rowsra. J 351 IjsJitr Crstrel
'tlApl AJ..litiU. is.M-3t liL-
J
I
fc
EKi
