ABT.Z.ONA REPTJ
Ata i-n- ENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, MONDAY MORNINU, JULY 3, 1916
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAE
12 PAGES
12 PAGES
VOL. XXVII, NO. AG
THE
BJ
ICAN
GOOD GAMS STILL MARK ANGLO-FRENCH OFFENSIVE
GREAT BRITISH A! FRENCH
OFFENSIVE CONTINUES VJITH
GERMANS FORMIDABLY RESISTING
Nogales Roused When Border Patrols Exchange Shots
HENEY SAYS WILL
WORK FOR WILSON
I I
All throunh the niqht the great British and French offensive which be
nan Saturday mornina. continued with intensity, and there was no dimi
nution in the battle on Sunday. Both British and French war offices re
port a steady advance at certain points, but speak also of the formidable
German resistance.
Fricourt, an important town, three miles east of Albert, has fallen to
tho British arms, while the French have taken Curlu, which ties to the
southeast. The fighting at the southern end of the British line, where it
is in contact with the French, i of the fiercest nature, tremendous artil- j
lery actions preceding all the infantry attacks.
Tne French have taken about 6000 prisoners, according to the latest es
timates, while the British, though reporting the capture of 3500, later de
clared that the estimates were too low. Owing to the nature of the bat
tle, it is not doubted that the casualties are very high.
Notwithstanding thp terrific offensive against them in the Somme
river region, the Germans have not cer.sed in their efforts around Ver
dun. They have bombarded several of the Verdun sectors and have
launched infantry attacks against the French trenches. While Berlin de
clares that the French attacks against the famous Thiaumont work were
repulsed by curt?.ins of fire, the French war office announces that this
strategic position has been recaptured.
Aerial activity was also marked. Berlin reports that eight British and
three French machines were brought down vithin the German lines, and
that four others also were shot down. The British admit thai three of
their machines are missing.
Additional successes are recorded by Petrograd, the official communica
tion announcing that Austrian positions west of Kolorr.ea, in Galicia, have
been taken by storm, with tho capture of 2000 prisoners. The Austro-Ger-mans
in Volhynij .re making desperate counter attacks.
WASHINGTON, July 2. Francis
J. Heney of California, a leader of
the Roosevelt delegates to the re-
publican convention In 1912 and
afterwards active in organizing the
j progressive party, telegraphed
President Wilson today that he
would work actively for the presi-
dent's re-election. He declared the
nomination of Mr. Hughes repre- i
sented "the fruition of the political j
corruption which was successfully
practiced by the republican na-
tional committee four years ago,"
and told the president that
"th'rough your personal efforts, j
most of the important planks of
national progressive platform of
four years ago have already been
enacted into law."
HI!
-Q
BATTLE OF SOMME
MARKS OPENING
OF BIG DRIVE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
PARIS, July 2. The battle of the
Homme, now in full progress, marks
the opening of the Franco-British of
fensive, long expected as a critical, if
not the decisive stage of the war.
Early reports today show that the
entente allied forces are sweeping for
ward along a 25-mile front. The
French already have taken more than
r,.0fl(i prisoners, while the allied lines
have enveloped within the lust twenty
four hours nine villages and fitly
square miles of French territory, held
until now bv the Germans.
The theater of operations for the
British forces runs between Gomme
court, north of the river Ancre, to a
point jtist north of the Somme, while
the French attacked on both sides of
BRITISH-FRENCH
WAR GAINS ARE
CONSOLIDATED
l Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BRITISH HEADQUARTERS IX
FRAN'CK, Saturday, July 1 (via Lon
don, July 2). The close of the first
day's offensive over the iongest front
the entente allies have attempted and
the most extensive action of the war,
for the British, finds the British and
French consolidating their gains.
South of the Ancre river, where the
infantry swept forward, Curlu was cap
tured by the French and Montauban
and Mametz were taken by the British
with almost unbrokne succejjs, though
againirt heavy curtains of fire and de
lays due to stubborn resistance, par
ticularly from a German trench called
"Dancing Alley."
Word came back that the destruction
by artillery of the first line trench was
so complete that one British battalion
GERMANS ADIT
E
THROUGH LUES
NT PUSH
ILTDLL
Ml
COOKE RETURNS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
EL PASO, July 2. Another survivor
I of the Carrizal fight was located today.
! He is Corporal F. X. Coone, of K.
Trooj), Tenth cavalry, who was brought
j into Juarez this afternoon from Villa
Ahumada and placed in prison.
! General' Francisco Gonzales. Juarez
commander, wired to General Jacinto
; Trevino at Chihuahua for instructions
, and it is probable Cooke will be turned
I over to the American authorities to
i morrow.
I Corporal Cooke, in addition to telling
; a thrilling story of his adventures
! since the battle with the Mexicans un
j der General Gomez, adds his statement
to that of other survivors that the
Mexicans fired the first shots of the
engagement.
He also quotes Captain Boyd as say
ing Just before the commander gave
orders to- his men to advance:
"The genet,.! has given orders that
there is only one way for us to go and
that is to the north. My orders are to
go to Villa Ahumada, to the east, and
I am going there."
In previous stories Captain Boyd's
mission has been explained to have
been the recovery of a deserter at Villa
Ahumada.
Captain Boyd also, Cooke said, can
CARRANZA NOTE HAS
NOT BEEN RECEIVED
U S
Republican A. P. Leased Wire i facto government just a week ago to
WY.SHINGTON. July 2. Sunday day, official view the formal avowal
bp'i'ght no important developments
here in the Mexican crisis
Neither the state department nor
Hie Mexican embassy had any word as
to when Carranza's reply to the Amer
ican demand:-., awaited by President
Wilson, might be expected. There
seemed little probability that the
W:tsh'ngton government . would con-
Eider f'lrther action until late in the
week. The house will not re-assemble
until Wednesday, having adjourned
over the Fourth of July. While the
ulmiiiistration could take any neces
sary defensive steps in the event thai
General Pershing's column was at
tacked:' no aggressive movement would
;? undertaken until after President
Wilson has advised congress of his
purpose and definite authority had
l-een gr tmed.
Republican A. P. teased Wire
BERLIN. July 2. Via London)-
In the grejit Anglo-French offensive
Itrunn yesterday along a front of 25
miles to the north and south of the
..,...,, ... j tioned them against firing first and
wi-.t.mni ijKitel lodav savs the en- . . ft
tente allied troops were successful
occupied it with the loss of a single
Roye.
... ,, man.
i uus wie eiiieme allien armies pie-j
sent a front of 2n miles with the Brit- i
.... tiw. i. .rt i- .ii,.u Vw.
..-.,1 ll tit- Kll l.l Ilium AIIU. VHC , . . U..U.1.. V.l.
f line unicii iiKiiuy iitriu
The Germans in their defensive tac-
penetrating the German first line
trenche? at several points.
Tho German division defending these
trenches, it is added, hah to be with
drawn to other prepared positions.
Kram Gom'necoiirt ,o La Boiselle.
the communication says the British
and French puslaine.l very heavy foss
es :ind obtained no advantage worrr
mentioning.
The text of the German
I communication says:
'Western theater The great British
:m-l F'reneh offensive, in massed at
tacks, which had bet n extensively pre
1 pared for for many months past. b-
gan yesterday with strong artillery and
gas preparations over a front of 2.',
of purpose demanded of General Car-
ranza as of immediate importance -also.
The war department issued a brief J
official statement today regarding the
geneial progress made in national
guard mobilization. "Mobilization of
the national guard in all departments
is proceeding without a hitch," it is"
said. "Large parts of the guard have
already entrained for their destination
r-.nd the mister of the remainder is
proceeding as rapidly as possible."
Secretary Baker said he did not
know how many thousand guardsmen
already had reached the border. There
I ;s reason to believe however, that up-
words of rn.Oiio will be added to the
birder guard within the next few
days.
Gi :,er:il Bell reported to the war de
partment tonight that Mexican Con-
KEPT
FIVE MINUTES
I sul Garcia at EI Paso nad nromised
Officials profess complete ignorance , ;i,d .-lld p,tecU-n for the party that
us to th" time President Wilson is will sent tc. bring back the bodies
willing to wait for General Carranza's f the American troopers killed at
rtply, raying whether he desires the Curri.al. Arrangements for this were
United States government to outsider being completed, General Bell said,
that he has assumed deliberately lios- addinsr that the mission probably
o.- .induce .e-,v;.iu me American j would be entrusted c a party of
iroop.-- in .'.'.exieo. Aiir.ougn an imme
diate break was averted by the re
lease of the troopers eiptured at Car
tizril in primpt compliance with one
f the demands made upon the de
Republican A. P Leased Wire
NOGALES, July 2. Nogales was
aroused early today by a fusillade of
shots just west of tne town, but after
five minutes the firing which was an
exchange of shots between members
of the Carranza garrison in Nogales,
Sonora, and an American sentry post,
came to an end.
There were no casualties. It is sup
posed here that the shooting was tho
outcome of a celebration in the Mex
ican town last night, in which a large.
Quantity of liquor was broached.
With the arrival of the California
field artillery, the force here will total
3,000 men. A squadron of the Cali
fornia National Guard cavalry arrived
today without mounts and went into
camp. The field artillery was expected
tonight. -
The total of Carrancista fighting
men in western Sonora. includim? Va-
Mx:cans. qUj an(j jiavo Indians, seasoned soldiers
The department announced tonight and citizens in training, is reported to
ioo national guard units mat
have leached the bolder are being
mpp'.ied with machine guns.
l
ofi'iein!
against letting any piece go off acci
dentally, under heavy punishment.
After escaping from the fight at Car
rizal, Cooke wandered foodless with a
broken right aim for four days, lived
several more on the hospitality of Mex
ican ranchers, and then pushed out
alone for the American base, "only to
be ventured at a water hole. He was
brought into Villa Ahumada yesterday
afternoon and put on a train in the
evening for Juarez.
Despite his American uniform and
bandaged arm, his presence excited no
iiostile demonstrations in Villa Ahu
mada and not even curiosity in Juarez.
Mexican officials said Cooke confirmed
this statement.
"I was shot down in the very begin
ning of the fight,'' said Corporal Cooke.
and then
I........,!. ,1... .;..!. r.. la
I" V .L- . I shelled it when occupied by the British,
The region of this supreme contest I t(e carried on tne fi ht tu
is one favorable for military operations. .
1 tne second line
The fighting lines extended between . Thp GeTmam , , force f ht
a great ..timber of small villages which f Ancre
are usually devoted to textile indw.-I an( Beaumnt HameIi tnere
tries, while the outlying ; agricultural wa8 a complicated intensity of
sections are level fie ds chieflv devoted ,. ... ,. . .itv 1V, ., ,
. . action like erdun w ith the German
to beet culture for the extensive sugar, , , ,
, . . . ,. i defenders,
production of trance w aUack made jn thg
The intense bombardment of the. last . ., ... , . u ....,,..
I iiuiiiiihk lilt; mini 111 ine taucj' maue n
miles on 1 clh sides of the river Sura- i i " crawled back, with my arm dragging,
me ar.d ikewisc the Arere brook. to a ditch and crawled down it. There
"Around G tmniecuirt to the region I met Corporal Queen. The corporal
ot La Hoiwlle the enmy obtained m. undid his emergency bandage and
ad .viU-sres worthv of mention. He bound up my arm. I then went back
st.'clnincd ver he?vy losses. ! to where the horse holders had been,
"(in t he othi r hand, he was sue and couldn't see anybody. So I struck
ccssftil in penetrating at several points out for the place where we had camped
the firsv line trenches of our division j the night before. I didn't then even
in the region abutting both banks o' j know the place of the fight was named
the S'lmmc and was a'oie to advance : Carrizal. And I saw only five men who
GUARDSMEN
TRAIUDSAT
BORDER POUTS
10 INCURSIONS
INT01E10D0
NOT GET BANDITS
Republican A. P. Leased WlreJ
KL P V.SO, Tc, July 2. Trainload
after trainload of national guardsmen
pulled into El Paso today, but. while
rremv unloaded for station in the.vt-
cn-.uy ci f.i Paso, the great majority' ing caught sight of the Mexican ban
were rushed on to points westward to dits Whose trail thev hud follnu-ed
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
FORT HANCOCK, July 2. American
cavalry made two fruitless incursions
into Mexico late Saturday and early to
day, returning late today without hav-
This division had to be withdrawn
frcm the heavily shelled first line
four days was the signal for an ad- , difficult for the infan try unit8 to k eep , trenches irt.o. the positions arranged
vance over these level iields. beginning j toucM with each other, or the gunners ! 'or e.-kit g an advance "trmn the
. . r J "w,u nB; ' l to follow thelradvat.ee, but a brilliant f"t t'1 0 ''"';: .ln
entente allied forces then lengthened
the range so as to shut off all com
munication between the first German
lino and the German reserve in the
rear. This made it impossible for the
Teutons to utilize their perfect organi- j
zation for the shifting of troops and
for the bringing up of reinforcements.
It is thought by French military ob
servers that the Germans miscalculated
the intentions of the entente allies and
expected the attacks further to the
north.
. The villages which the French cap
tured in the first sweep include Dora
pirere, Becqulncourt, Bussus and Fay,
and these and the towns taken by the
British Montauban and Mametz
were all found to have been strongly
fortified by the -Germans.
The entente allies, profiting from
their experience in the war, quickly
threw up strong earthworks around the
villages thus taken, in order to protect
them against counter attacks. It was
not before night, however, that the
Germans were able to deliver any
counter attack. This was centered
against the French position on the
outskirts of Hardecourt It was re
pulsed with heavy losses, ending in a
precipitate retreat.
Throughout last night the French
continued their drive, capturing the
village of Curlu, of which they already
had occupied the outskirts, and pro
gressing south of the Somme between
Barbecourt and Assevillers.
In addition to the military success.
the terrain overrun by the entente al
lied troops has a strategic position.
The German headquarters is at St.
Putain, 20 miles southeast of Peronne.
Already the French forces threaten
Peronne with the evident purpose of
cutting the trunk railway there, which
is an Indispensable artery for German
military reinforcements.
The speed of the advance of the en
tente allied troops ts tuken as showing
that the perfection of the artillery
preparations exceeded anything yet
done in the destruction of field works.
Infantrymen of both allied armies
leaped out of the trenches at the word
of command, with trie's of Joy, with
sabres and with the singing of the
Marseillaise and Tipperary.
The concrete sheltered machine guns
that had stopped the French in Artois
and in the Champagne had all been
demolished here, and it was chiefly
sunshine continued throughout the day
with clear air and summer heat.
This afternoon at four o'clock the
village of Thiepval was still being des
perately held by the Germans. The
place was visible to the observer before
the British opened another artillery at
tack which seemed to be churning it to n"
dust, making it Impossible for any bu
had been shot down, but some one
said Captain Boyd was killed. The
; number killed and captured is sure a
I surprise to me.
t "I reached our old camping ground
about 2:30 in the afternoon, and stuck
' around there until -eight at night, ex
ternal in the first li"e which was im
movable and which hail been ren
dered useless, as is customary in- pecting my command to assemble there,
such casos was lost. ! sir, I didn't intend to surrender. I
"In connection with these extensive j intended to get back to our base at
operations there were many artillery j Frederico.
actions and numerous minor attack.', j "For four days I wandered around,
the ndioinine front to the west i t worn my way oacK me way
and southeast of Tahure. we tume- " 1 soi on on tne wrong
. ... i iniil I flwln't irct ii Kito t. 1hntn
man being to survive even the strong- "They wire cverywnere unsuccess- " " ' , - ,.".'' ,
T. m, -.- i. . , days and had hard work finding water.
est redoubt. The British mortars also ful- r, ... t .. ". ? '
,u .:-. .1... i..it of i hp Meuse at. Of course, I did my traveling at night,
weie uus,. ine piojecu.es 6MMUI1B uii- , '. . :.n,l bid in tl. m,.l, l h a,...
HUl No. :i4 French trencr. secuoni' - ......HU. ... ,.c uoo.
caotured and a French band v""- cojoies nowiing
complete concentration on the frontier
hi rapidly as possible.
The military men say that at the?
present rat-- of transportation all wealr
poi.its along the l ordtr soon will be
sti r.'jihened to a degree that will
lender impossible Mexican forays upon
American soil if a break should come.
The Second Massachusetts infantry,
which detrained here yesterday, was
ordered1- immediately to the expedi
tionary base at Columbus, X. M., to
reinforce t'.ye regiment of New Mexico
guardsmen and tho 1500 regulars on
station there. Batteries A and B of
the New Jersey field artillery was
sent to Douglas, Arizona presumably
to relieve regular cavalrymen on sta
tion there.
It is reported that the cavalry will
he ordered to the San Bernardino val
ley, east of Doughs to protect it rich
The first dash across the Rio Grande
was made just west of here late Satur
day after news had been received that
a band of ten robbers from south of
the line had run off with three horses i
from a ranch near old Fort Hancock.
Lieutenant E. N. Hardy, of thei Eighth,
cavalry, followed the marauders' trail
to the river with a detachment of twen
ty men, but on orders from General
George Bell, Jr., did not cross until
reinforced by C and D troops, Eighth
cavalry, rushed by train from Fort
Bliss. The expedition, commanded by
Captain Leroy Eltinge, penetrated
about ten miles into Mexico and just
at dusk, found that the bandits had
doubled back east. Abandoning the
quest, the troops returned to Fort Han
cock early Sunday morning. They
made a new start, this time striking
into .Mexico to the east of the fort.
be about nineteen thousand. These
are exclusive of the forces south of
Douglas and around Cananea.
The menaceof these numbers, how
ever, has been lessened daily by tho
fact that the Mexican coal supply has
become low while tae rolling stock of
the railways is in poor repair.
While mobilizing- continues on this
side of the border, smallpox and starv
ation are active throughout Sonora,
according to Joseph Knoden, a Ger
man sailor, who arrived here today af
ter six days spent on a troop train of
47 cars moving north from Uuaymus.
to Imuris. ..
Knoden, a forecastle hand on the
German ship Hans, interned at Santa
Rosalia 23 months ago, reached Guay
mas June 23. As he had acquired a
good command of Spanish by working
on ranches near Santa Rosalia, Sonora,
and was treated with entire courtesy
by the Mexicans, he had exceptional
opportunities for observation from the
slow moving troop train.
Soldiers everywhere, he said, had
plenty to eat, but their supplies were
provisions of which merchants had
been stripped and the population of all
but the larger towns had for days been
feeling the pinch of hunger.
The Third Battalion, Second Cali
fornia infantry, Major Will Kelly, of
Fresno, commanding, detrained hero
tonight. Four other troop trains car
rying national guardsmen are due be
fore morning.
(Continued on Page Seven)
(Continued on Page Three)
der the sun, as hundreds of them fol
lowed one another like jugglers tossing
globes into the vortex of fire.
So swift is the ambulance transport
that some British wounded may already
be in London.
Prisoners are being brought in, in
groups as they are gathered from the
dugouts not destroyed by artillery fire.
The destruction of six German
(Continued on Page Two)
n.f.r.i, reimlsed i around at night,' but 1 never saw even
"To the east of the Meuse the a sine'e rattlesnake in the day time.
enemy with the aid of strong rein
forcements, re;ieated his attacks many
times yesterday and this morning on
Froids Terre hill, and especially
aj-ainst the fe.rtified work of Thiai:
mont. but was compelled by our cur-
(Continued on Page Two)
HUGHES TO UPErj GAM PAIGl-J
'f WITH TRIPTOPACIFICCOAST
'As I didn't know any Spanish. I felt
kind of leary about showing myself.
But I got so weak with my arm swollen
up, loss of blood and no food, that
finally while I was looking for water,
I saw a Mexican at a well watering
mules, and believe me, he looked good
even if he was a Mexican.
"On my wanderings, I had picked up
a Mexican clay water bottle, and the
first thing 1 did at the well was to
drink that bottle full six times. When
the Mexican got" over his astonishment,
VILLAITINilSElERE
POLICE EXPECTED TO Fill
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
P.RIDGEHAMPTON, N. Y., July 2.
Charles E. Hughes probably will open
bis active presidential campaign the
second week in August, with a 7,000
mile trip to the Pacific coast and re
turn. The nominee is considering an iliiM
erary that will provide for a dozen suit
speeches to be made at Chicago, . Ki.l
Louis. Kansas City. St. Paul, or Min
neapolis, Seattle, Portland, Ore.', ' San
Francisco, possibly Los Ang and
the latter part of Septem
campaign
ber.
While the plan has not been ma
tured, it Mr., Hughes' present inten
tion to o t ..he, coast by the northern
route and probably return by the
southern. The nominee will discuss
the proposed trip next Wednesday in
New York:-with Chairman Wm. J!.
Willoxtf Hie national committee. Not
uiore'thar) a dozen .speeches will be
madu tiniest present plans are altered
and none will be from the rear, plat
form of his jrain.
(Continued on Page Two)
o
Headquarters Of
I Third N. Y. Brigade
Visited By Fire
several other cities in the trrjtory second trip probably w ill be made
(Continued on Page Three)
traversed. The progiam under consid
eration provides for a brealc of two
weeks to be spent some where in the
Rocky Mountains. This would afford
Mr. Hughes- an opportunity to enjoy
his favorite pastime of mountain climb
ing. Altogether, the trip would last from
five to six weeks. It would be made
by regular trains and would bring the
nominee buck to the east ready for
what he expects to be "a whirlwind
to Denver and Salt Lake City which
are pot Included in the tentative itin
erary of the first.
Because of the difficulty of assemb
ling the notification committee July
15, Mr. Hughes is considering having
the notification the latter part of this
month.
Mr. 'Hughes spent today quietly.
With his wife and daughter, Helen, he
went to communion service at the
Methodist Episcopal church here.
Republican A. P. -.eased Wire .
BROWNSVILLE, Texas. July 2.
T!ie business section of Pharr,liead
quarti rs of the Third brigade of the
New York national .guard, was almost
wiped out by fire, starting at '2:30
o'clock thi:-morning. The loss was
about S.'iO.OOO.
Army equipment for the New York
guard was some distance from tne
fire and was not damaged. A large
shipment of fresli meat intended for
the commissary was burned in the
destruction or a outcher shop. Pharr
is about fifty miles west of Browns
ville. Army officers who investigated re
ports of incendti.rism reported late
today to General Parker here that no
surnicious circumstances were found,
although the cause remained undiscovered.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
EL PASO, July 2. That-military au
thorities have had the home of a local
Mexican under surveillance for several
days, suspecting that Francisco Villa
was hiding there, was revealed tonight.
The house was surrounded by a cordon
of police and soldiers and the doors
rushed. Search of the premises, how
ever, revealed no trace of the bandit
chieftain.
Americans arriving at the border to
night, however, brought reports Xhat
Villa is alive and encamped with 700
men in Rio Florido, while General lg-
nacio Ramos, commanding the Car
ranza forces in that region, is trying
to effect his capture.
It was stated also that letters from
Villa to his old followers have been re
ceived In Chihuahua City and other
points, urging them to come back. The
Americans said the Carranza govern
ment is credited with refusing to ac
cept Villa's surrender, believing that
his prompt elimination would influence
the American government to withdraw
its troops.
Rio Florido is about 40 miles south
west of Jlminez. Villa's associates
there are Calixto Contreras and .the
well-known bandits, LTribe and Bel-
tran.
ranza army when intervention seemed
imminent
Six American refugees from the
Guanajuato district also reached the
border today. They asserted that the
thrty-seven members of the American
mining colony in the section were ar
rested by Mexican authorities and
placed in the jail to protect them from
civilian mobs when the news of the
Carrizal engagement reached the town.
They were held in custody two days
and then released with instructions to
leave Mexico at once. The other 31,
they said, left Mexico by way of Eagle
Pass, Tex.
To Avoid Clashes
SAN ANTONIO, July 2. All reports
received at General Funston's head
quarters indicated nothing more ex
citing along the international line to
day than the exchanging of shots be
tween sentries at Nogales.
All officers commanding the troops'
aJong the 1700 miles of border have
been cautioned to avoid clashes with
the Mexican troops that face them but
staff officers fear that something may
occur at any time that may serve aa
the basis for further international com
plications. The First Brigade of the Illinois
guard now is encamped here and tho
Second New York brigade has reached
the Brownsville district. A regiment
of the Vermont guard arrived at Eaglo
Pass today and the second Kansas in
fantry was on its way to that point.
The First Missouri infantry passed
through Laredo. The Second Illinois
infantry went into camp here today
and the Seventh arrived late tonight.
More than three thousand guards
men tonight were either at border sta
tions or so near that they could bo
moved right to the line within a few
hours. It was believed that by Wed
nesday the entire movement would bo
more than half completed.
Eight American consular officers who
(Continued on Page Seven)
GROUPS OF MEXICAPS NOT
COME TOO CLOSE TO BORDER
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
COLUMBUS, N. M, July 2. Groups
of Mexicans are to be kept from ap
proaching too closely to the American
border in the New Mexico border
patrol district, according to orders
Uribe and Beltran offered to issued today by Colonel H. jC. Sickles,
surrender to General Ramos,
said, but met with refusal.
it
Arrivals reported that Chihuahua
City is quiet, but without business.
The street car companies have been
obliged to close down for lack of fuel.
On the train arriving from the in
terior tonight were' several Mexicans
on their way back to the United States
after leaving Texas to join the Car-
was commanding the district, as a result
of the firing last night from the Mex
ican side upon a detachment of
United States cavalrymen.
Investigation developed that the
marauders probably were part of a
Mexican scouting party sent from As
cension, seventy miles south, to re-
connoiter the frontier, and who only
fired when challenged by American
sentries.
Reports reaching here from the field
In the last few days have indicated
that a Alexican intelligence office for
the purpose of keeping track of Amer
ican troops and supplies for the bor
der is located here. Coupled with
these are reports that the Carranza
garrison at that point has been in
creased materially recently.
Hoof prints Indicating that the de
tachment was comprised of about a
dozen men, and several empty car
tridge shells of the type used by
troops of the de facto government,
were found near the scene of the
shooting.
i
