THE BARRE : DAILY TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 93.
BAH RE, VERMONT, ONDAY, JULY 3, 1916.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
ALLIES SWEEP
OVER GERMANS
ON WEST FRONT
In Conjunction With British, the French
Have Captured Many Towns, Latest
to Fall Being Herbecourt, and Have
Seized Two Lines of Trenches of
Second German Positions
COMPLETE SUCCESS"
DECLARES WAR OFFICE
Much of the Success of the Allies-Has
Been Due to the Destruction of Ger
man Captive Baloons Which Had
Been Used for Observation Purposes,
31 Having Been Burned by the French
Paris, July 3. The French offensive south of the Somme, in con
junction with the British drive, continued last night with complete
success, the war office announced to-day. The French have occu
pied two lines of trenches of the second German position on a front
of three miles and captured the village of Herbecourt. The
trenches taken by the French extend from Maricourt wood as far
as the edge of Assevilleers. Herbecourt lies between these points.
North of the Somme the Germans made no attack on the positions
previously taken by the French.
The statement says that 39 German battalions participated in
the fighting and that 31 of these sustained important losses. Dur
ing the artillery preparations preceding the inauguration of the
offensive, 31 German captive balloons were burned.
East of the Meuse, on the Verdun front, the Germans captured
the Damloup redoubt, but the French soon regained possession.
London, July 0. The British forces north of Fricourt have
pushed forward to higher ground, says a Reuter despatch from
the front to-day. The situation there is promising, the correspon
dent wires.
British Headquarters in France, July 3. Further advance has
been made by the British east of Ancre river. To the north of the
town of Fricourt the British pushed forward and gained ground
at a higher elevation.- . - ' '- -v"
The heavy shelling of Montauban by the Germans continues, but
the British appear to be well established in the town. The number
of German prisoners taken in the south so far exceeds 4,000. The
weather continues favorable.
. ,
troops has an exceptional strategic ini
portance. Four of the towns raptured by
the French are only seven milca went of
Peronne, the chief rail highway from the
Gorman center at Cologne to the dor
man front in the region of Noyon anil
SOIHHOIU.
The German headquarter in at St.
uentin, 23 miles southeast of Peronne.
Already the French forces threaten Pe
ronne, with the evident purpose of cut
ting the trunk railway there, which is
an inidspensable artery for German reinforcement.
The speed of the advance of the allied
troops ia taken as showing that the per
fection of artillery preparations exceeded
anything yet done in the dest ruction of
field works. Infantrymen of both allied
armies leaped out of the trenches at the
word of command with cirea of joy, with
cheers and with singing of the Marsel
laise and Tipperary.
The concrete-sheltered machine guns
that had stopped the French in Artois
and in the Champagne had all been de
molished her, and it was cliiey mHn
against man with rie and bayonet, at
which style of fighting, the officers say,
the French and British both showed su
periority, rushing over the ground with
such rapidity that in an hour and a half
from the moment the first order was
given the German first line had been car
ried over the largest part of the 25 miles
of front.
WHIP MILITIA
INTO SHAPE
BULLET HOLE
IN LEFT ARM
Troops Already on Border, Luigi Caruti Also Got a Su-
Including Vermont, Being
Started in Slowly
perficial Wound in
Forehead
THREE IN RUNABOUT
HURLED AGAINST POLE
GIRL WAS INJURED
SO AS TO PREVENT
INJURY TO THEM
POLICE ARE SEEKING
EUSEBIO ALBANO
Major-General Wood Ex
pects to ,;Send 10,000
More This Week
The Shooting Took Place on
, Webster Avenue Sun
day Morning
54 VESSELS DESTROYED.
of a pistol with serious results for Luigi yesterday,
Russian Torpedo Boats Did Great Execu
tion in Black Sea.
TWrnfrrarl via T.ninlnn .Inlv .1 Tins. 1 hilt 8
ian torpedo boats destroved 54 enemv
sailing vessels in the Black sea, near the
Anatolian erast, on June 20, says an ofli-
lal statement.
RANDOLPH CENTER
MAN SLASHES
HIS THROAT
BRITISH FIGHTING
MOST STUBBORNLY
Every Known Means of Defense Ha3
Been Brought Into Action Loss cf
Many Balloons Has Apparently
Crippled the Germans.
British headquarters in France, via
London, July 3. The close of the first
day's offensive over the longest front the
entente allies have attempted, and the
most extensive action of the war for
the British found both the British and
French consolidating their gains.
South of the Ancre river, where f he
infantry swept forward, Curlu was cap-j
tured by the French and Mountauban
and Mametz were taken by the British
with almost unbroken success, thout'b
against heavy curtains of fire and de
lays due to stubborn resistance at some
points, and particularly for the British
from a German trench called "dancing al
ley." Word came back that the destruction
by artillery of the first line trench wus
to complete that one British battalion
occupied it with the loss of a single man.
The Germans in their defensive tactic
in many instances left the first line
trench lightly held and then shelled it
when occupied by the British but the
British carried on the fight to the second
line.
The German in large forces fought
lierce-ly north of the Ancre. At Gomme
court and Beaiimont-Hamel there was a
terrible complicated intensity of action,
with every method of destruction-like
Verdun with Germans as defensive.
When the attack was made in the
morning the mist in the valleys made it
difficult for the infantry units to keep
in touch, with each other and the gun
ners to follow their advance but a bril
liant sunshine continued through the day
with clear air and summer heat.
Yesterday afternoon at 4 o'clock the
village of Thiepval was still being des
pcrately held by the Germans. The place
was visible to the observer before the
British opened another artillery attack
which seemed to be churning it to dust,
milking it impossible for any human be
ing to survive even in the strongest re
doubt.
So swift is the transport that some
British wounded may already be in Lon
don. The destruction of six German sau
Mge shaped observation balloons by Brit
ish airmen early last wfk evidently was
a serious loss as none has been replaced.
It was noticeable that the British aero
planes over the battlefield greatly out
numbered the German machines.
Indignation was expressed by both the
British and the French staffs over the
statement in yesterday's German wire
less communication that a British air
raid over Lille had bombed the Church
f St, Saveur. The statement wil free
?y branded by the officers as a lie. Lille,
it was pointed out ha been within reaeo
of the British heavy guns for a year
without a bombardment and that the en
tente allied machines bombarded only
railway station and military point and
continue to do so. 1
BRITISH CAPTURED
TOWN OF FRICOURT
oseph H. Hayes, Who Had Been a Resi
dent of That Place Many Years,
Died in Woods Near W.
S. Bryant's.
Randolph-July 3-Dr. A. C.Bailey, health
fficen, was summoned t the Center Sun-
ay morning to attend a suicide, Joseph H.
Hayes, who for many years had lived ni
le Center, and tor the last 12 years at
the home of W. S. Bryant, at that place,
was missing Saturday afternoon and
evening, and search was made for him
Sunday morning. He was found in the
woods about a half a mile from the home
with his throat cut, and the razor with
which he did the deed lying near him.
Xo motive was known. Appearances in
dicated that he had been dead many
hours, and it is thought that he mutt
have passed away immediately,. A. '..
I .a ml was summoned and the bodv was
brought to the undertaking rooms here.
from which place the services were held
this morning, and burial made at once.
Deceased was born in Lowell, Mass..
May 23, ISfil, or this was the age he
formerly gave. He is survived by uo
relatives so far as known and was nevci
married. , n
San Antonio, Texas, July 3. The Xa- A Sunday morning quarrel at 9 Web-
tional Guardsmen at the border stations ster avenue culminated in the discharge
are being whipped, into shape for hard
service. Although .eager to convert the
guardsmen into seasoned troops as quick
ly as possible, the officers realize the
danger of overworking them and will
not, crowd them too much. Almost all
the men are in excellent physical shape,
great majority of them are soft
Met Another Car at Narrow Point South
of East Montpelier Village Pole
Prevented Car from Falling
Down the Bank.
In turning out for another automobile
at a curve half a mile south of Last
Montpelier village, on the Montpelier
road, a rord runabout containing three
persons was whipped against a telephone
pole Saturday evening, and Miss Dora
Brown, aged IS, daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Herbert Brown of Ilardwick, was
thrown o violently against the pole that
at first she was thought to be fatally in
jured although later it was found that
her wounds were not so serious as ex
petted. Dean Goddard of Woodbury,
who wa holding Miss Brown on his
knees, had his (ace lacerated and one
eye closed probably by his face coming
in contact with Miss Brown s head. S. J
Dwinell of Wolcott, who was driving the
machine, was not injured. The car was
smashed on the right side, including the
door and the running board, and the
windshield wsh shattered; but the car
was run to Wolcott on its own power
Caruti, a granite cutter, who received a
bullet wound in the left arm and in the
forchefid. The police are looking for Eh
sebio Albano of Howard street, who is
adlegcd to have fired the pistol shot at
his wife s home, where Caruti is a board-
and unaccustomed to the climate, er. Albano and his wife have been sep.
Xew York, July 3. Major-General arated for a year, the officer say, and
Woods savs the militia movement from I the shooting is believed to have been
the department of the east toward the committed bv the man while in a rage,
liorder has passed tthe climax. He es- Someone notified police headquarters
timated that 10,000 more troops would the affair soon after f o clock yester
leave their home mobilization camps dur- day morning. Officer John 8. Murley
tnjr the present week. ana rpeeiai umcer A. if. 'urns, com
figures issued, today at Woods' head- mandeenng the water, department jitney,
quarters showed that 8S8 men were sent
from Vermont and that 300 are conceiv
trated at the Vermont mobilization camp
Xew Hampshire is the only Xew England
state that has not sent any troops, but
the state has 1,309 men mobilized.
According to the storv of Dwinell, he
was driving his car in Hirdwiek Satur
day afternoon when Goddard, who was a
stranger to him, hailed him and made a
dicker to carry him and Miss Brown,
whom Goddard was visiting, to Barre.
The Ford runabout offered rather
cramped accommodations for three per
sons, but the three crowded in and made
the trip to Barre. After a short stop in
the city, they started on the return trip
about dusk. All went well for a few
miles and the Ford mechanism was work
ing well, according to the statement of a
farmer who came up to the scene of the
accident a little later, after the car had
hurried to the south end in response to L,.j -,... ' ,i
ilia v II Afaanu)iill AlKenn i m Kn JinPOfl I t
Tbe pflr of the accident is a danger
A 1 J I J C At-
... ,.u,B..cu ...a cuu.k uo ouu.u t Th(, r0H(, nBrrf) snd at thc
Mam street, probably pacing the officers top of ri.ge thp rQad vpprs sharp)y Jwt
at the intersection of a road which lead
HETTY GREEN DEAD;
WORTH $100,000,000
Fight at Southern End of British Line is
of the Fiercest Cruracter,Tremen
dous Artillery Action Preced
ing Infantry Charge Sat
urday. London', July 3. All through Satur
day night the great British and French
offensive which began Saturday morn
ing in the Somme and Ancre sectors con
tinued with intensity and there was no
diminution in the battle o Sunday. Both
British and French war offices report a
steady advance at certain points, but
speak also of the formidable German re
sistance. Fricourt, an important town three
miles east of Albert, has fallen to the
British arms, while the French have tak
en Curlu, which lies to the southeai-t.
The fighting at the southern end of the
British line, where it is in contact with
the, fronts, is of the fiercest nature, tre
mendous artillery actions preceding all
infantry attacks.
The French have taken 6,000 prison
ers, according to the latest estimate,
while the British, though reporting the
capture of 3,500, later declared that the
estimates were too low. Owing to the
nature of the battle it is not doubted
that the casualties are very high.
Referring to the Anew-French drive.
the German official statement says that
at several points of the first line trenches
along the Somme, the enemy forces gain
ed successes and were able to advance. A
German division in this sector had to be
withdrawn, and material in the first line.
which was immovable and which 1ms
been rendered useless, was lost.
Richest Woman in the World Lived in
Most Simple Fashion Her Wealth
Will Go to an Only Son.
Xew York, July 3. Mrs. Hetty Greeen,
said to be the wealthiest woman in the
world died at her home here to-day at
8:02 o'clock. Her fortune is close to
$100,0110,000, having grown from $10.
000,000 which she inherited in lSll.. Mrs.
Green was born in X'ew Bedford, Mass.,
but lived the greater part of her life in
Xew York City, although she had a sum
mer home in Bellows Falls, Vt. She mar
ried Edward H. Green, who was L'nited
States consul-general in Manila.
Dressed in simple and sometimes shab- i
by black, with a little bonnet that would j
stand a lot of wear, the woman of mil
lions moved about in downtown Xew
York, recognized only by few who had
been initiated into the secret of her iden
tity. She never rode in a carriage, and
was never seen at the theatre or opera.
VERMONTERS REACH
EAGLE FASS, TEXAS
First Regiment Went Into Camp Sunday,
First Battalion Having Arrived at
One O'Clock Sunday After
noon, Others Soon Following.
Eagle Pass. Texas, July 3. The First
regiment of the Vermont National Guard,
Col. Ira L. Reees commanding, arrived
at Eagle Pass yesterday and went into
camp. The First battalion arrived about
1 o'clock and was followed by the other
trains in sections at intervals of about
an hour.
as they speeded toward Webster avenue
Dr. W. K. Lazell was called to minister
to Caruti's needs and while the physician
applied bandages to the injured man's
arm and forehead, the police heard their
version of the shooting. Caruti stated
that Albano rushed into the kitchen of
the house, delivered himself of invective
language in Italian, and then drew a re
volver from his hip pocket. Caruti raised
his left arm to ward off what he thought
was to be a blow from the pistol butt.
The move probably saved his life.
At that moment Albano fired. The
bullet entered Caruti's arm above the el-
to Montpelier over the hill, while a fence
and a telephone pole act as a barrier
against a fall down a high bank. Just
at this point the homehound Ford met a
Cadillac, No. 1(174. registered in the name
of H. A. Dunbar of St. Albans. Both
cars took their own sides of the road,
but the Ford went too near the edge so
that the right, rear wheel slipped over
and brought the machine with a sharp
impact against the telephone pole. The
pole was all that saved the machine from
going down the hank.
DEATH ENSUED
BEFORE BODY
FELUNWATER!
Death of James S. Milne, a'j
Barre Granite Man' .-(
turer, at Highgate F A..igsi
Was Due to Cerer em-!
orrhage and Nr Jrown;
ing as Was irst Sup-:
posed
HE WAS TAKEN SICK "
WHILE IN R0WB0AT:
His Snn Walfpr Was Trvinosi
, .. , , , j i
to Reach Shore When the'
Body of Mr. Milne Toppled j
into 15 Feet of Water and-1
Was Not Recovered for 40 j
Minutes Funeral Is to Bel
on Wednesday i
R,,f U-hllo a I I to. it.. mt
bow, passed through the middle of the thp sgm tjme 1))C J wven jn.
juries to Miss Brown. Her head came in
arm. and struck the man a glancing blow
in the forehead, ploughing a furrow
through the scalp. According to Caruti
hw assailant dropped his gun and fled
.Mrs. Albano and her daughter were in
the garden at the rear of the house when
the shooting occurred. They rushed into
the house to find Caruti reeling about the
kitchen with blood flowing from a wound
in the arm and a rather superficial open
ing in the forehead. George M. Douglass,
.. 1 1 . . . S 1 - - L. . . . .t.
1 BUnuaiv firt Mron -to reach the hHi.after Mrs
DIVIDING COMMAND
OF U. S. TROOPS
Funston's Province Abridged and Persh
ing is Placed in Command of One Sec
tion with General Bell in
a Third Division.
"Washington, D. C, July 3. A division
of authority among military commanders
along the Mexican border, announced to
day by the war department, reduces '.he
southern department jurisdiction, com
manded by Brigadier-General Funton, to
the Texas line from the coast to Ki Pat-o
and creates a new department of Xew
Mexico, commanded by Brigadier-General
Pershing, and adds the Arizona border to
the western department under Gem nl
Bell. Heretofore- the southern depart
ment embraced the entire border from
the Gulf coast to the California st:i(e
line, and Pershing's expedition has been
under the direct command of Funston.
..These changes, announced bv the war
department without explanation, are be
lieved to be preparatory to the appoint
ment of a maj'r general to assume su
preme command of all the forces on the
border and in Mexico. , .
It is believed that Secretary of W;ir
Baker has submitted to President Wilson
I the officer's name he desires to direct the
Albano and her daughter were summoned
from the garden by the gun shot.
ilfticers Murley and turns were soon
ii . -i. : -s c: j i irr.
Harrv Gamble, Cognizance was taken of I, ;t1. "
Her abiding place was usually a mystery j m;,.,,,, opf.r(1tirn, but there is no inti
to the tax-collector, whom she admitted- mati(m rrp(,rdins the identity of the per
ly dodged. Slln (;p,.rH Wood and General Bliss are
It was Hetty Green s ambition to mak.! tlie most freouentlv mentioned,
her son, Edward Howland i.ireen, the San Antonio. Texas, duly 3. A divi
richest man in the country. She put jsion of ailt),oritv along the'Mexiean bor
him through many severe tests to try .,,.,.,.' ,i,i tn !,. , ,i,.ar.
the direction in which Albano disap
peared and the authorities in nearby
towns were at once notified to be on the
lookout for the man. The sheriff's de
partment and police headquarters in
Montpelier were advised of the shooting
and outgoing trains were watched. Grand
Juror William Wishart was called to
the scene of the shooting Und a careful
nvestigation was under way bv mid
forenoon.
Albano's movements before he arrived
on Webster avenue are rather beclouded
in mystery. Special Officer George F.
Howe saw the man hurrying downstreet
after the shooting, tint as the officer had
not heard of the affair, Albano was not
intercepted. Sometime before the'trou
ble an Avers street man saw Albano
walking up the street toward the covered
bridge. At that time he wore no coat
and near the Penniman house, so railed,
it was noticed that he transferred a re
volver from the coat which he carried on
his arm to his hip pocket.
The police are inclined to the theory
that Albano crossed the river to Web
ster avenue, as his hat was found in a
boat tied to the east bank of the branch.
contact with the pole and she was ren
dered unconscious. Her escort also was
in a dazed condition, and he remained in
the car holding Miss Brown after the
first rescuers came, the number including
Mr. and Mrs. A. M. Troup of Barre, who
motored up just after the accident, and
Harry Daniels of East Montpelier, near
whose residence the accident happened.
Eventually the girl was handed out of
the car and was laid on the gra-ss, while
hurried efforts "were made id reach phy
sicians. For some time a physician could
not be located but Drs. Frank Wheeler
and D. W. Hodgdon of Plainfield came as
the meantime Miss
urse, and Mrs. Troup
did what they could to care for the girl
whose face was covered with blood and
who remained unconscious until after her
removal to Heaton hospital in Lewis Sib
ley s automobile. The occupants of the
St. Albans car did what they could, hav
ing gone in search of physicians.
Dwinell. the driver of the ford, which
was numbered 1011, was at first Inclined
to blame the driver of the Cadillac for
crowding him too much; but, in view of
the conditions, those who came up short
ly after the accident were inclined to ab
solve the St. Albans man from blame.
According to the hospital attaches, the
Brown girl iB only slightly injured, her
nose and face being lacerated.
out his business qualifications. A story
is told that when he was a boy she sent
him out to the street corner to sell morn
ing papers from which she had read the
financial news.. She finally sent him to
Texas where he eventually worked him
self to the front as a railroad man and
financier. Since 1N03 he has been presi
dent of the Texas Midland railroad and
a factor in many other interests. In late
years he largely assumed the manage
ment of his mother's property.
ment two weeks ago bv Funston who
suggtsted that if general field operations
were undertaken greater efficiency would
be displayed by the American army if
three major-generals were placed in command.
STRATEGIC POINTS THREATENED.
By the Speed and Fierceness of the Al
lies' Drive.
Taris. July 3. The battle of the Som
me, now in full progress, marks the open
ing of the Franco-British offensive, long
expected as a crucial, if not the decisive
stage of the war. The allied lines envel
oped within 24 hours nine villages and
50 square miles of French territory held
until now by the Germans. The" great
offensive was expected and eagerly
awaited in the last ten days, but the ex
act point where teh blow was to be deliv
ered was carefully concealed. It was be
lieved that it would be north of Arras,
with Lille for the objective, but it was
finally decided for strategic, rather than
for sentimental grounds, to execute the
move south of Arras at a point where the
piercing of the line would operate more
seriously in the dislocation of the German
forces. The theatre of operations for the
British forces rune between Commecourt
north of the river Ancre, to a point just
north of the Somme, while the French at
tacked on both aide of the Somme and
southward towards Koye. Thus the en
tente allied armies present a front 2.
miles, with the British on the left for 15
miles and the French on the right for
10 miles.
In addition to the military sucesses.
TALK OF THE TOWN
Miss Effie Mclvoud of Plainfield is vis
iting for several days at the home of
Mrs! Gertrude Bartlett of East street.
Miss Hazel Partridge of Summer street
will take h month's vacation from her
duties as cashier at the Lyons grocery
store and her place will be tilled by Miss
Hazel Lyon.
Mrs. .lames Chamberlain of Woodstock.
Noberto Garcia Injured and Louis
rales Accused "f Doing It.
Xohcrto Garcia was taken to the City
hospital late Sunday afternoon to receive
Frank L. Parker and Miss Elsie St. bbins treatment for a fracture of the jaw
of Claremont. X. H., are visiting for rev- (which he received in a quarrel which fol
eral days, at the home of Mrs. L. A. Head j lowed a biisehall gsme back of the Aqua
DEMAND TROOPS' WITHDRAWAL.
Socialist-Labor Party Sends Protest to
PresidSnt Wilson.
Xew York, duly 3. A protect demand
ing that all Aniern'in troops be with
drawn from Mexico was sent to President
Wilson to-day by the national executive
committee of the Si.cialist-I.abor party.
HIS JAW WAS BROKEN.
Ca-
of upper Washington street. ,
Mr. C. I Buebee returned to the city
Saturday with her daughter. Miss Evelyn
Bugbee, and hr grandson. Donald Bug
bee, after spending two weeks at the
Bugbee cottage at Highgate Springs.
At the bride's home, fl Beckley street.
this afternoon at 12:30 o'clock. Miss
Iiuise Xieora was married to Enrio
Buzzi of 88 Smith street, the ceremoni
being performed bv Justice of the Peace
James Mackay in the presence of reli-
tives and intimate triends ot the co;,
Pura building on Granite street. Drs.
F. X. 7.. An liaml'Stilt and E. B. Whilak
er attended the man. This morning Lou
is Canutes, known locally as a baseball
pitcher, was arrested by Chief Sinclair
on a complaint made to Grand Juror
William Wishart charging him wiih a
AUTO SLID OVER BANK.
In Attempting to Turn Out for Team on
a Narrow Road.
A Buick touring car, owned and oper
ated by Richard A. Coppings of East
Montpelier, went over a bank near tho
highway just east of the city dump on
Krook street Sunday afternoon at 4
People who know something about the o clock . Mr. toppings. Louis Mayo and
Hat bottom boat that rides at anchor a man named Bushey. the latter two oc-
most of the time at the point where the cupying the rear seat, escaped injury,
lail and Stevens branches join forces say but little Kutli .Mayo, naiignter ot tlie
the boat was on the west side of the driver, sustained a painful cut on the
brineh last night. It is surmised that arm.. The car was damaged to the e-
Albano may have crossed the river some- tent of a shattered windshield and top
where Itctween Prospect street and and a broken running lioard. This morn
Straiton's atoneshed. only to recross in ing the machine was hoisted from the
the b.at at a point opposite Webster ravine and towed to a Jettcrson street
avenue. Accompanied by the Avers street garage for repairs.
man who told of seeing Albano Iiefore Mr. Coppings states that his party
0 o'clock. Mr. Howe was walking down was returning home when they met a
South Main street after the shooting team owned by Arthur Wells of East
when Albano accosted them. Montpelier. . In the carriage a small bey
.,.., r t ,, was driving and bv his side sat a little
"Everybody Fight on Webster Avenue." t; . o avoj(, an tnc01inlM
Asked as to w hat had ensued in the I with the team the operator of the car
south end, Albano is said to have re-Urnvp hjg ma(.hine too near the ravine.
Everybody ngnt on v coster ave-
plie
line." He passed along and the two men
dismisesd the incident only to recall it
when they learned of the shooting a
short time afterward. Albano. it is
thought, stopped at a house on the ave
nue after the shooting and procured a
cap to replace the one he left in the boat.
Much that the officers learned in a
forenoon's inquiry on Webster avenue
and Howard treet is lieing withheld for
a time. A number of people were exam
ined and a good deal of information that
is said to have a strong bewaring on the
affair was secured. Albano has been a
lodger in the home of Adolpho Guazzoni
at !' Howard street and boarded at the
home of Mrs. Fortunato Paolnro at Xo.
1 1 on the same thoroughfare. He left Mrs.
INolaro's house after the breakfast hour.
Caruti is not in a dangerous condition.
alt bough the arm wound is ot a serious
on account of the narrow highway at
that point, with the result that the auto
slid over the brink. Xone of the passen
gers jumped and the progress of the car
down the slope was arrested by a tree.
The little girl is believed to have rf
ceived a cut on the arm from falling
pieces of glass. The abrasion was ban
daged and the members of the party were
taken home in another car, alter assist
ance had been summoned from a garage
here in the city. The car had a fall of
eight feet and had it not been for the
tree the consequent probably would
have meen more serious.
breach of .peace. anaies phadea not; nature. He beliees that he tortended a
guilty and i admitted to bail in thejs(.l0nd at'atk from Albano by grappling
sum "of $300. a hearing being set for! with his assailant as soon as the gun
July IS at ! a. m.
Pending Garcia's recovery and unCl
was fired. Once he had Albino by the
throat, according to the story told the
euch time as he is able to take the wit- ; officers, but the man from Howard street
pie. A wedding reception will be ten- ness stand, the case will 1 allowed ' wrenched himself free and left the house.
dered Mr. and Mrs. Buzzi tiis evening, set. The police allege that Cannes j The gun. a 3 calibre weapon, and Al-
Mr. Buzzi is employed as a granite poi. swung on Garcia with his right fi?t wnen bano's hat. were taken by the police.
isher. Saturday at 90 Circle street Miss
Giovenninie Comolli was married to Mar
tino Bertolini by Justice of the Tcacc
Mackay. A reception followed the cere
mony in the evening. Mr. Bertolini is
employed as a granitecutter and thc cou-
the pair failed to.
affecting the game.
agTee on a decision
the terrain overrun by the etteiite allied j lc are to make their home in Bane.
Mrs. ('. Kenyon r turned to her
home on Men bant tret jesterday after
spending seveial days visiting with reU
ti.es ia M. Jo!.nburv.
No Paper To-morrow.
To-morrow- being a legal holi
day. The Times will not be issued.
Wednesday's prr Wi" contain a
full account of the day's activities.
C. J. Lawliss. who is employed in the
pay department of the Winchester Re
peating Arms Co. at Xew Haven. Conn
is visiting for a wet k at the home of his
parents. Mr. and Mrs. Erwin Lawliss of
! Kirk street.
A party consisting of William Leonard.
Henry St. Peter. Joe Moss, Frank Kielly
and John Kielly passed through the city
yesterday from Granitefllle on their way
to Sherbrooke, P. Q., for a few days' out
ing. The party was carried in John
LVdlvs new Dodge Brothers car.
James S. Milne, one of Barre's besti
known granite manufacturers, died sud-
denly at Highgate Springs Sunday after-j
noon while boating with hiB son, Walter.
S. Milne, and Robert H. Knox of 23 Bea-
on street, this eitv. Death came to Mr.,
Milne as he was seated in the stern of I
the boat and to add to the tragic circum-1
stances surrounding the case, in falling,.
he toppled over the gunwale and sank ini
15 feet of water. Young Mr. Milne, atl
the oars, was hurrying the boat toward!
the shore w hen his father, who had com- j
plained of feeling ill, suddenly fell into,
the water. An autopsy performed after'
the body reached Barre early this morn-,
ing made it plain that death ensued be-;
fore Mr. Milne reached the water. The
end wa-s due to a cerebral hemorrhage. '
There was no water in the lungs when'
Irs. William McFarland and Joe W, '
Jackson conducted the post mortem ex-'
amination.
It waa stated to-day that Mr. Milne.,
began to feel ill soon after the boating;,
party struck out from the shore. Mrs. '
Milne, who was seated with Mrs. Knox ;
on the broad piazza, of C. L. Bugbee''
cottage overhanging thenake jhore, waa:
watching the party through a field glasa ;
when she noticed a slight commotion in!
the boat. She saw her husband bend j
slightly forward and when the boat, in.
being headed toward the landing, turned'
sharply in ite course, she was a witness ;
of the tragic chapter that followed. Mrs.
Milne was overcome by the sad scene
which w as being unfolded on the bay not !
six rods distant, and so great was herj
distraction that friends feared she would,
become hysterical. For some time ther-1
after her condition was very serious.
Death occurred soon after 3:30 o'clock,
and 40 minutes elapsed before the body.'
was located and brought into a boat. A!
former Barre man, Lawrence Holmes,'
and E. A. Tlatt, who has extensive hold- ;
ings along the lake front, were in the
boat when a mattnamed Bushour came in ;
contact with the body by dragging the j
bottoo'jf the bay with a trawling hook.;
Dr. H.j lj. Pierce of Swanton had been
notified of the drowning and' he was at!
the landing when the boat bearing the;
remains came ashore. After the physi-'
cian had examined the body, permission
was secured from the selectmen of High- .
gate. W. P. Welsh. E. A. Bates and H. J. ;
Cutler to proceed with preparations for j
burial. An undertaker from Swanton :
took charge of the body for the time be- f
mg. ;
At 10:30 o'clock last night Mrs. Milne
and eon and friends of the family left
Highgate for Barre. arriving ii the city
over the Central Vermont railroad this
morning at 1:40 o!cloek. The remains'
were taken to the Milne home at S3 Lib
erty street.
The funeral will be held in the First
Presbyterian church Wednesday after- ;
noon at 2 o'clock, the pastor. Rev. Edgar;'
Crossland, officiating. A private service;
will be held in the house at 1:30. Inter- !
ment will be in the family lot at Elm- j
wood cemetery beside the body of James J
S. Milne, jr.. whose tragic death from an,1
injury received in a basketball game atl
Boston, university Jan. 2.1 was the first
of two sudden deaths in the family this
year. It is requested that flowers bo j
omitted. j
Friends of the Milne family were no- .
titled of the death soon after the search J
for the body was begun. A telephone i
message received here shortly after 41
o'clock brought the sad tidings and inti- !
mate friends of the family began to make .
such preparations as were deemed nee-!
essary for assisting those most deeply;
affected by the tragedy.
Mr. and Mrs. Milne had gone to High
gate Saturday morning for a week's out- 1
ing at the Bugbee cottage. Try were '
joined later in the day by their son, Mr. i
and Mrs. Knox and Miss Gertrude Geake.
There is a considerable colony of Barre '.
people at the Springs ju-t now and prep- i
arations for a joyous observance of the
approaching holiday were in progress,!
when the tragic end of Mr. Milne plunged ,
the community of campers into gloom.
Likewise, here m the city, where the de
ceased'e warm friends were as numerous
as his acquaint jnces, many expressions j
of deep sorrow were heard when news of
his demise was received.
It was soon after the party of campers -,
at the Bugbee cottage had finished dinner
that the three men set out in a row boat
for a short cniise obout the hay. As
near aa the eye could measure they were
s.arcelv six rods from the landing 'when
The case of Mate vs. M. Erbusco. Mr. Milne suddenly became distressed.
charged with complicity in sn assault o.ii!e was sitting in the stern of the boat
M. lampo June 24. was continued in city j while his son plied the oars, with Mr.
court this morning until July t, the re-1 Knox in the opposite end of the craft,
spondents bail of f.VK! being continucl j Iiefore his companiops could realize what
aiso.. J. Ward Carver respresents Er-jhad happened, Mr. Milne toppled orer
busco and State's Attorney F. L G least
tsiil prfrsvute, (Continue 4 oa eighth page
