'" "JMi l-
"4F
sV
;i
51
(Eljr lEuemw Herald
. .&
i.i&l
JJ3$J
H
KLAMATH COUNTY'S
OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER
KLAMATH FALL', ;
OFFICIAL NESPAPlk
-tTf.-im, iTUnm,rm!xjiiaL,. - -.-,. .,.,.. , r r, r.r ,
Tenth Year Ne. I,0M
KLAMATH FALLS, OREGON, MONDAY, JULY 3, 1916
Prlee Five Canto
Allied Offensive in the West Still Advances
BRITONS, FRENCH
6AIN IN DRIVES I
ON WEST FRONTS:
, i
KtVERAL VILLAGES ARK CAP.
TURBO TODAY
I f -i-.-- ---- -.- . . ..........,-,.-,---.. -...---.-..---.-.--..--. Jjrj- .----.,- -..-.--.. "riinnninrVinnjvm-Tjun.n.njX'J
First Jury of IVbmen to Convict of Felony
im?imm0&&mz:&
tiwkzzv
sssnar
Ccrman Halt Advance at Soma Point
But In Oeneral There It Progres
Along the Semme by the British and
rrench Berlin lays Russian At.
tacks Naar Lutsk Art Repulted.
Fighting Hat Naar Verdun,
United Praaa Servloe
LONDON, July X Oeneral fllr Doug
Un llalg kit announced the capture of
additional defense in the British olfen.
hive launched Hatitrday. Ill report
say:
"Heavy gating at Lallolaella nod
fMt of Albert la proceeding satlsfac
torily for ua. The reasnanU of the
Herman garrlMD at the latter place
have surrendered.
"In other parte of the battle front
f Imvp made progreee. The Sghllng
around Oviller continue with vary
log success.
"His Oerman aeroplane wen de
frayed and five damaged. Heven Brit
Uh aeroplane are Bluing."
Halg say a llrlUah attack thU morn,
log gained a portion of the German de
fense, and 400 prisoner.
For a while this morning Qrrruon ro
JnforcouenU cbaaed the llrltlitb olfcn
Hive north of the Sonime.
The French continue to amaah for
ward aouth of the Somme. They are
i-apldly driving the Qermatui eastward,
and threaten I'eronne, a railroad cen
ter.
IWHMMI
wgwfesisl u ' iaaajc
a.' P-aaanr-j' , ji MjjTsrrst'wnj .. i awMLamuu . t .. Mtf?nat
WW:.lWMS " mis3 r I If I Ts 1 IT iM W"iI''iA&M-
in- IsIBbIBBBb. ri.' aiffJilils .; JBI ., nF-env . -
4A;jgig. . '.... Trtmmmz&i t ',, crKXTC ;,t tt v 'rT ,
t? i r,-- JBif w aa"--Bm w.v'.m. .Mrmwiii.'- Wk j ,e-z--t g ut gannm
1?Wimbc k&? " J, flgBvifclW'iM iPBR --'
3iwfc1egH ''
t! x.ni&rmmKmvffXi 'uw'iv.mtfr,'rti h tvuvn.t au.
'i .anHinV"nBBBaim,-''vlgn7gng9-: r?7 ,?tiA t X . ;,
$ savngpnangi mmmmmMrw &ZT.,wmmnmmi r$ t r nar &? wt
i "aLHEBigggW( rMxtmfs ' ti&$jt7W' -. K
aanngggggggggggggggggggggggggnVaV'XJBaV n liV. gggggggggggf & ih V JfFV -HPajnL ji rr TJ f
k nnnnnwmwK. .& ..- . -'aanw, i - fci r ftr- v si"Ji-;
iagggggggg&LHy, - v -gggwr itw -:v,-''yw.
' nnagggggggggfllnVHnVi A . flggaff ' aStffercttra- -' "t v-
is?m iOTw, ? aiiirigggg!fs-w.-
Keif iSsasaT- .,., --! i-m Mtwi&ffiRut!iw x5Kftwr".ffliu:,i2irfc. a4.s3
S0ZF"'V4 Al
r
43U5i
r i't '' f3Kf!!,'7r ' ?'
f CWM'7 B
jj ,
x 1 i.tb .. -
d " TfHi
l v
T& .iZJJAfr3k
a Y7 y'.'4i:'j&; iraw
(S'aSftS!KM
S4cr. ! , "' , !&
j .M? lr-.
WmM?
wmr-
MILITIA BEING PLACED
ALONG BORDER; NEW
CENSORSHIP IS
INEFFECT
jri
,
i
riiS
&-4
&
m-1 r
r .
? .
iPt-f
Kffiittd
-I
I
WASHINQTON, D. C, July S-Thc atate department' today annaunaed
hat the admlnlatratlon will net praaa Carranza far an Immediate reply to the
Amtrican note, new that the tenalon ha ben reliaveel by the attrrawdat ef
the Carrlsal prisoner. s)' "k I 5 ' '
Lansing declared thare la no chanpc in the policy ef maintaining. 4tn
'American forces In Mexico. The war alepartment explained that Perahtag la
J shortening hlalnea for strategic reaaena, as. it la difficult to maintain nth
troopa in the arid region, owing talack ef water.
The war department announces that the aeuthern department ha bean
divided into three sections, under Generals Funaten, PeraMng and ffeH. i
United Pre Service
, I .
IlkJBII fcl M t..,u MM.. 1AI a. m. Om . ?.- t
wbwmvw, n. tm., wmij j. . wnwr.inuiWM ran HHIWI apwa ar aB.
aervlng the militia herder movement. Aa a reeuH, a aaaaeraMp Mat keen '
Inaugurated 'to prevent Carranza agent thia aide ef the Una from ebtoinlng'
Top how, left to right Emma A. Davis, Louisa A. Harrison, Nannie C. Everly, Daisy 8. Clark, Minnie I. Praul and Bertha J. Butler.
Bottom row, left to right Nellie D. Richards, Marc C. Bllefusa, Lucy C. Waggoner, Amelia Bell, KatRerine Wlldt Dr. Rosemond Daily, forewoman.
Thin In believed lu bo the flntl Jury composed wholly of women to brink lit a vurdlct otgalfty In a felony case. These women of San Diego heard
(imtlmony in the cone of four Mexican chnrged with highway robbery and found them jrallty. , Women have served on many juries in California, but
It one of (he few corunoivd wholly of women.
any information.
I
Long troop traina
I
f
X
9 I l
through here last night Theee traina ara dm-
the
this
' tributing guardsmen all along th herder.
J.
I
Th reoutars on antral duty latidlv cheer the arrivlne mllUImMJ.
j --r-j, r' Ni,.- V "V
f nmencan iinu are cieoeiy wakening Mexicans auapeaiaei or Being . i
M)a the FYonch captured tbo Gennan
rt'cond lino of tranche ou the aouth
tank of tbo Somrno alonx a three mile
front bot!m Mlrccourt Wood and
ArnvHllorca. They nlxo nelitsl (he
lllnnp of Herdecourt
The Qernian (umporarlly occupied
Uiu fortified work nt Damloup, north
cant of Verdun yeitorday. Tboy were
llnnll) routed.
Tho Uorman trooptt were driven
Diiri I,(mIko wood eterday. As a re
Kbit thoy were badly dlRorkanlzeU,
! about thirty-one batalllon being
Kcadquartera repuru indicate tho' touted,
I'rltlah are aublectlng the Thlepual re ivcnch anUalrcroft guns etenlay
Klon to a moat terrllc cannonading, 'umarhed thirteen Uorman observation
This Is supposed to be the blasting of-baiioonH. ' '
i no way ror anomer aavance.
Eat of Albert the BritUh have ad-j,,n,tmJ Vrwa 8BrWt.0
vanced and selied higher poaltlona be
yond Ktlcourt, taking ,000 priaoner. J UKHLIN, July 3. It i announrol
North of the Ancre Valley there la but. that allied attacks cast of tho Soraiue
FIVE WEDDINGS TY COBB FINED NEW PITCHER IS
ON JULY FIRST! AND SUSPENDED N0T FORTHCOMING
i
FOR OUTBREAKS
!
United Pre Service
EL PASO, July & Militiamen are awarming all along the. herder. Reg
ular army officer aay the guardsmen are In excellent condition, wall trained
and well equipped.
Y i .. "v i
t
United Preaa Service
1
KANSAS CITY, July a. Six hundred Pennsylvania militiamen reaehed
'S.
JUNE WILL BE OUTDISTANCED AS
THE BRIDES' MONTH IF THE
FIRST DAY' RECORD KEEPS ON
THROUGH MONTH
1 Kansas City today with no money and without food far twenty-feur hours.-
The city gave the troopa sufficient supplies to enable them to reach the her-)
United I're Service
CHICAGO, July 3. President
Ban
'(
FOLLOWING OFFER FROM HERE,
i I
j ADAM8 ACCEPTS, BUT HE FAILS! der. The men crowded three In a seat, and angrily threw hardtack from!
TO CALL FOR TICKET NELSON
IN BOX TODAY
Tin- marriage license took an awful
boom Saturday, when licenses wera
,1'tMicd to tho follewing:
.loo Poster and Mabel E. Cllne; Che.
tei W.Porter and Ethel EX MCSweeney;
Thoniux K. Powora and Dlancho Sim-
, Johnson of the American League today
suspended TyCobb, Detroit's hitting
marvel, for three days and Imposed a
fine.
This follows an outburst of temper
by Cobb at yesterday' game between
the Tiger and White Sox, when he
threw hi bat Into the grandstand.
llttia pIibbm hut aM niiiMra th ' laNt nlsht wcro rcuulsod with blooly
I. ..-.. .... . mnitu Alvln n flnntiam mil IfllrllA
I losses. Houtn or tno Homme me uor-i - -- -
Mltuatlon la "most promising."
The moat violent fighting la around mans abandoned their second lino of M
tranche under tho heavy Kronen us
LaUolselle.. Oerman artillery la shell
Ing MoaUuban.
I'nlled Pre Service
PARIS, July 8 Today' communique
I.
riy: Clyde B.
llunnah.
Miller and Oraca J.
the windowa at their command officer.
rtx
V-
fli.
I.'
,1
,"u'1, ilev. K. C. Uichards married Foster
The ltUKlan attack Bouuteaat of tho nna Ml Cllne. as reported In Satur-1
fortreH of LuUk have been repulsed, ,jayh Herald, and Kb also performed j.
accoraing 10 Vienna auvicea.
RANDALL CASE
NEARS THE END
Klamath is Represented
at Ashland's Celebration
the Miller-Hannah ceremony at the
, church that evening. Miller 1 the In
(.iihtrlal teacher nt the Klamath Agen-J The trM of c c Raajgn m charge
jc. nnd tho bride arrived rriday even- of ,arceny of a atM)r wl B00n ,et.
I ln with her mother. Mr. C. Hannah. Ued At 3:30 flnal argunent to
from Ottawa, Kans. (tne jury waa compjeted, and the prep-
llii. other couplos wore all married araUoa of ln8trucUomi to the Jury corn
by .Tiixtlce of the Peace Qowen. All mnnA
Ihreo of tho young men are steady, pop. The trllU of jy has been on In
liln. amnlnvn, fit Innfll IlimtlAr nnft. .. ... . .
..., v... ,....,... . .. lne clrcull court tor several aay.
cent.-, nnd like their brides, they have There raany Crogcent D00Dle Bt.
j niHiiy friends here. tending as witnessed and as spectators. l
The local baseball club official are
mystified over the non-appearance of
"Babe" Adams, a fast San Francisco
twirler, who was scheduled to arrive
.lost nignt anu pitcn today's game
against the All-Stars, and also be on
hand for the Woodland game at Dorrls.
He accepted the club'a offer Saturday,
and a ticket was wired him, with the
understanding that he would leave on
that night, arriving here last night
Adams failed to show up, and "in
quiry shows that the ticket wired him
waa unclaimed. Nelson and Peterson
will therefore pitch for Klamath Falls
In today's game, and Johnson will do
the slab work for the visiting team.
' United Preaa Service v
8AN DIEQO, July 3. A full regiment of' Oregon troops is encamped;,
'here, the last four companies arriving last night. ''
The third batalllon, under Major Abrams, today encamped on, the border.
If Klapath la not well represented
at the Aabland celebration, It will not
be due to lack of attendance from here,
Kver also the rain let u, and it be
gas to look like decant weather, there
baa been a steady axodsa of automo
bile parties, Invariably headed for the
town where lytala water grows, and
where there will be a three-day cele
bration. There ara many Klamath Falla peo
ple In Ashland row, and there are hun
dred frenTDly, Merrill, Fort Klamath
and ether part of the county. Car
decorated with Klamath Fall pen-
aaata war to be aeen on every hand
Ibla Morning, and the esodu atlll con
tlMta, Many people left for Aahland on the
train this morning. Other will leave
tomorrow morning, and many local
Killed on State Highway
..... I Going to Salem,
business men will leave after the store i ., ,,,, Hnrinnrtnt I?
close tonight, or early tomorrow morn-!p . d f . b , tc, United Pres Service
Ing. , morrow for Salem, to attend n meeting MOUNTAIN VIEW. Calif., July 3.- (
Tho RoundUp at Ashland will draw of th, superintendents of the state and !' p Courtney and Mrs. Jamea Court-1
many people, hh there nro a number of (0 .,, tne papers submitted In the'nw ere killed when Courtney' auto
Klamuth rldent and ropera entered. rocent teachers' exams. Thoy will be mobile capsUed on the state highway ,
Loyo Chandler, the Picket brother, 'awny about two weeka, - at 11 o'clock thU morning. Mra.P.F.
Spike Speoknian and many other have . I Courtney and ttree children were all j
gone over, J. Frank Adama Is to be;Fe,hhacksr Visit. 'injured In the accident l ,
ona of the Judaea of events. He loft I xinrtimr VtlihhanVr 'ou of th!
OLIVER'S TEAM
mm FORT
SEGUENDOS WILL PLAY WOOD
RIVER TOMORROW, AND BUT.
TON'S COWBOYS WILL PLAY
FORT ON THE FIFTH
till morning with a big bunch of cow-iomcnH 0f the Anglo-Callfornla Truat In Frsm "Rim Rtok."
boys, who will make the PondlotonlCOninany. and Interoated In many other Frank
crowd alt up and take notice. I concerns, including the Klamath De-1 Ranch.
There will be a good many Klamath velopmont company, Is here from San
Falls people at Swan Lake tomorrow, Francisco to rusticate at Harrlman
at the big picnic and the dedication of i Lodge and look after local Interests.
Snyder's red barn. There will be .a
'hualfAt nlnnin. nairiotia oxarolse. ath
lotto contest and an all-night dance In
the big barn, just finished. Captain
O. C, Applegate will deliver the Fourth
of July address.
Cale Oliver's Seguendoa will go to
Fort Klamath tomorrow to play a game
with the Fort Klamath team aa n part
Orohs la In rrom rtlro Rock 'of the big celebration up there. The
'following day, Ross Suttoa'a Dairy
j Cowboy will play tht Fort team.
Oliver, while at the Fort, will re
cruit member for the military com-
Trea to Move.Perch.
"Tex" Fagan, Dave Bdler'a Brat lie
! tenant, made an uasucceeatul attempt 'pnny being formed hare.
Infant Dlts. to move the Hotel Houston tnia, morn-
Donald, the infant son of Mr. and Ing, when his auto became unmaaa'te-JTo Aahland.
Mrs, J. H, Howie, died yesterday from able on a turn. The car knocked out a Mr. and Mra. Leslie Rogers and call
infantile diseases. A private funeral' few porch pillars and damaged itself dren and Mr. and Mra. Carl Cofer left
was hed thia afternoon,
to some extent
today for Aahland.
L. J. Horton of Yonna Valley spent
Sunday In the county seat
Pade Change Location.
Jas. E. Pade and John Shannon have
formed a partnership, and will conduct
a tin and plumbing shop at 1023 Main
street Mr. Pade waa formerly located
in the Sanderson building near tne
corner of Seventh and Main.
. . M
Refuse All Information u
1 Ti 1 1 A Ttfct OnevloA
SACRAMENTO, July 3. The aiata
federal army officer refuse to give oat
any Information whatsoever In, regard
to the movement of troopa. It Is aav
derstood that the Fifth regiment
traina late this afternoon, while the
Seventh regiment probably goes to t
border tonight
Citizenship Needs Told
From Pulpit Over Nation
Herald Special Service
WASHINQTON, D. C, July 3.
Throughout the country, from the pul
pit of churches of all denominations,
the doctrine of cltlxensnip prepared
clergy of the United State, with re
markable unanimity, adopted the ap
peal of the bureau of naturalisation of
the United States department of labor
that a clticenship sermon be delivered
on the morning of July 3 of thia year, a
date selected because of its close prox
imity to Independence Day, which
means bo much to all American citi
zens. The gospel of good cltlxenshlp
naturalization that one Sunday'k each!
year be sot aside aa Citizenship Snn-
day, on which will be preached at the!
morning aervice In every church in the
country a sermon qn cltlseasbip, Thisl
nesa was proclaimed yesterday. ,The I proposition has been placed before the
... .. . . ... I . - . . .. a .. . " -m A.'
cnurcneu oi an denominations, ana we
reBpojwea to tills feature ofthn
reau'a activities have been highlygrat
trying and indicative of the MtoMtelv
mem or uuen a aay aa,a. permanepr i
......... T. . -.I.fc" . i-ii.i
that the cburehea could aid i
In forwarding the
movement and inapiri
waa enunciated in cities and hamleU,'hlcb have not fae4dr.
to large and prosperous congregations I Kreat educaUeial1 netejBnmL I
and small, struggling band of wor- bureau of natureUnaJtoB asnjW
shipper alike a universal proclaiaa- peaU. nnaftV'- waneta :aim.
tie
instilling
ira in tne roinaa or foreign reeiaenu. j
per alike a universal prwlanuvjpeaU. nnaltVy weiltt angi H
from the pulpit of the neoaaaity f nonace AgeaefsIV-'f , !M
lllng American Ideals and patjrtot-J in, ppVoxJmfttlyxti uik;M
In the rulnda of foreign reeldenta.' i - ' . ' t 'X'V ' 'Wtfjej
It l the deaire of the bureau el
t 1 . '" H'iJ . ?' "Wii
