FINANCIAL EDITION
NIGHT
EXTRA
TOL.DI.-NO. S3
Eimting
vX3STRAr.
"
. V
Sueftger
NIGHT
EXTRA
SUCK MULCTING
METHOD WORKED
s n umiifiiimuvui
ix Office Attache "Maces"
placeholders for "Volun
tary" Contributions
klXJHT IN "TOWN HALL"
teltiniaru Contribution
Game in Gcrmantown
nfita ! Tinw ihn "voluntary" con.
j Xtribution game is practiced in
Germantown:
S ewwnunicatlon to the effect that
M nluntary coniriounono wm u rC-
SOlVed.
They go to the city tax office, in
tb Tovyn Hall, and pay ono of tho
T kn iriiia fiiillrltnf- tft fVin dtt.
I 111 V W u.....0 .- ..... -
f trkt water bureau.
Next door is me ucrmaniown po
iiM station, which has a forco of
?5orc than 100 men.
, Folitlcian terms it -suck, nccom
sjodating and productive of big re
mits." Policemen nro disgruntled. At
tack contribution system.
There nre as many schemes for obtaining
Kvohmtary" contributions from city cm-
weres as there are colors m the rainbow.
; Jkt thero Is none practiced with greater
ethness and none that furnishes better
nrenlence" In Philadelphia than the
used by the Vnre-controlled Bepub-
i contingent of Qermantown, now under
Arm hand of Magistrate Thomas F.
toon.
frmantowrs has a city tax office and a
Heal tax office all of Its own. Doth
dies of business nre conducted In the
room under the root of the historic
I Town Half, on Haines street just west
(Owmantown avenue. In tho same build-
f It the district water bureau. Next door
i Um Qermantown police station. To faclll-
i matters further a great portion of tho
; of receiving money for both purposes
I eose by an attache of the tax office, no
sing to several placeholders of that sec-
i of Philadelphia.
ADMITS 'COLLECTION"
jrfce fact that "Voluntary" contributions
received from policemen and other
holders at the Germantown tax omce
i admitted hy 'William Burns, a deputy
I; collector, today, lib insisted that the
rtrlbutlons were entirely voluntaryv It
i pointed out, however, that the collector
! the clty'a taxes In Germantown Is thus
the receiver and collector of Illegal taxes,
stoce contributions from, policemen for
yetitleal purposes are against the law,
A certain politician termed tho work of
mulcting In the ward as "slick; accommo-
seeing and productive of big results." He
asserted that It was also Ideal, simple and
tter in tho minds of all the city employes
ho live In the ward.
The system was fully explained by one
ef the many disgruntled policemen, who
. Indirectly compelled to "come across"
h tho regular assessment of JIB, 110 for
,ts city committee and 6 for the ward
ieommlttee. lie said:
"Every policeman and fireman In the
ward received unsigned printed communi
cations to the effect that voluntary contri
butions would be receded for the purpose
l ff conducting the present Ilepublican cam-
K' "There Is none of this business of having
i collector call at your home. The police-
i step into tho tar office, as a rule, and
i pay contributions.
"any of the fellows are klcklnr imnnir
gfcemselvea. They thought that after being
from paying contributions for the last
r years that the system was done and
r with."
.Tit policeman waa asked how the place-
I -mvs, namely, the policemen and firemen.
w wficr? 10 to ana whom to pay. There
W A broad irrin on hla faca when h r.
ft WW, "InatlnctWly."
Kf- 1 have a few mnr vmm A i,.. t
,sj eligible for the pension, so be sure and
in'l mention my name," was his parting
; Honse.
nEFUSKS TO B15 MACED
Another employe who Is on tha nnvmii nt
.Department of I'ubllo Safety and who
In the ward vigorously denounced
"practice of maclng polcemenand other
Octholdera for voluntary contributions,
i Ms said;
'They can send me as manv letters
OS; Want I Won't Yiav An aiuMmnt
K Jok of the high cost of living at the
P"tm time I Why, It Is an outrage."
same man has 'a wife ,nnd several
rtlWren. t
A third protestor further verlfled the man.
tw la which tho 'voluntary" contributions
wueciea in that section of Philadelphia,
i "How could you expect a policeman who
was, c-owntown or hi Hie Tenderloin from
Wing a little gf aft bow and then when
Must pay Duett amo-unta for contrtfeu-
Sf It Is bad far I ha oarvfxui
,buty Tax Collector Burns, at the Qer-
uwn oOloe, admitted frankly today that
CwtUwd en I'i yw, otaaw On
THE HEATHER
rOKMCAST
I W PhiUHMpMa f yitiniivPreb.
ram Umtkt. lUwi hy Ur:
Hurray prtbi , timid md mk
r, ttrong mtki4mt tW(,
MoiatH wrntY
.,.. s i .m I
Mil..... A 14 n mIUmi - " - TAJ b.
fcKLAWARK II IV Kit TIOK mttiUW
mmrmir Brnirrisr
Llr llSimllii- .l,r... IMn.
i ti , s.jum ion .lr, .; 9isi;
tKltrkJUkTl HK AT KAIM MOl
1101 111 lit .M 4, iL t
-ij-Lguij!' 7t ,gn l
PUlLADlSLlniA, P1UDAX, OCTOJIEil 20, 101?
Certiitnt, 1918, it ths ririuo Iimii CeuriRT
imiioe oiqi cBirr
CAMDEN ''fll0SrA LIVE ONE
"Ah Seen Mnn Climbln, From Grave,"
Cries Negro Cop Investigates.
Finds Injured Gravedlggcr
A negro dashed with express-traln speed
from HarlelRh Cemetery. Camden, today.
He bowled over several pcdettrUns and
finally collided with a cop,
"Ah seen a real llbe man who wui burled
fer dead cllmbln' up from a grave," he
gasped. So did tho cop.
"It'a go see who he Is," suggested the
bluecoat
"I saw him once," said the negro. "I
don't want no moah ackwalntlnts wlf him."
Tho policeman entered the cemetery
alone. A man's head appeared above the
top of a grare The cop'a teeth chattered
A chill ran down his spine.
"Pull me out." pleaded the man In the
grave.
"Are you allver asked the cop.
"Sure I am." And he was. He was
David Payton. n gravedlgger. of 17IS Tioga
street. Camden. He had slipped Into the
grave while digging It. Payton's shoulder
was dislocated. He was sent to Cooper
Hospital.
TOWARD CLIMAX
IN FOREIGN CRISIS
Complications With Ger
many and Great Britain
Growing More Acute
FEAR U-BOAT WAR PARTY
Tirpitz Followers May Force
Renewal of Submarine
Issue, Is Belief
III a Staff Correspondent
WASHINGTON. Oct SO. Administration
officials manifested a growing concern to
day over the foreign affairs of the United
States, which seem to be growing rapidly
worse, with this Government apparently
powerless to prevent a drift toward serious
complications. There are two principal
factors in this unusual state of affairs.
They are:
First The growing strength of the
von Tlrplts party In Germany, which
Is advocating a resumption of ruthless
submarine warfare.
Second. The unsatisfactory status of
American protests to Oreat Britain over
the seizure of malls and the British
blacklist
There hi every reason to believe that
Ambassador Gerard, who recently- returned
from Germany, has already Informed Secre
tary of State Lansing and will Inform
President Wilson next Monday of the seri
ous state of German Internal affairs as
they affect the interests of the United
States. While It has been denied that
Ambassador Gerard returned for the sole
reason of presenting the seriousness of
this situation, It Is well known that he
realizes the United States Is rapidly drift
ing toward another International crisis with
Germany, and is anxious to present to the
President some plans which he thinks
might possibly avert such a calamity.
It has been no secret either In the
United States or Germany that the von
Continued on rl Eight, Celnmn One
REVENUE OF CITY
TOO SMALL UNDER
NEW VALUATION
Mayor Smith Disappointed
by Tax Board's
Estimate
WANTS METHOD REVISED
Two Rates for Realty, Ono on
City and Ono on Farms,
Advocated
An increase of SSS1.1I2 in the city's rev
enue, shown today In the statement of as
sessed valuations of real and personal prop
erly for HIT made by the Board of Be
vision of Taxes to Controller Walton, na
pronounced entirety too low by Mayor
Smith, who advocated revising tho method
of assessment
That figure should havo been much high
er," said the Mayor. "It Is disappointing
to me that It Is so low.
"I am In favor of revising the method
of assessment I advocate only two rates
for real estate, one for city property and
one for farms. By abolishing assessment
on suburban property and Includlng-lt with
city property, the revenue would bo ma
terially Increased."
The rates now are: City, 11.50 per
$1000; suburban, Jl. and farm, fifty cent.
BEVENUE FBOM BCALTT
Realty values for assessment purposes
for 1317 amount to l,?:i, 5t0,000, as com
pared with 11,615,2:1 for this year, nn In
crease of 136,318,200. With a real estate tax
rate of $1 per 100, this will vletd an increase
of 3363,112. Assessable personal property
for 1917 amounts to 3625,000,000, as ngalnst
3578,0000,000 this year an Increase of 50,
000,000. This yields an Increase In per
sonal taxation of 320.000, with a personal
tax rate of four mills.
Chairman Gaffney, or Councils' Finance
Committee, also spoke In favor of revising
the assessment scheme, whero bases Increases
on the value of new buildings and the
price sale of property transferred Disap
pointment waa expressed by many c.ty
officials, who expressed tho opinion thnt the
figures do not show the true Increase In
property valuation In the city during the
year.
GRANT) TOTAL OP nnVENUK
Realty, assessed as city, suburban and
farrn property,, showed the fallowing Items
tUBderthe lhree.heads.Clty. Jl.BJO.Wa,
080: suburban, 370,518.380, and farm. 382,
919,860, totaling 31 ,719,960,000, which, with
the special assessment levied on horses and
cattle, brings the grand total realty
assessment to 31,721,510,000.
The statement was supplemented with a
separate statement of assessment In the
Twenty-second, Twenty-third, Thirty-fifth,
Forty-first and Forty-second Wards:
Ward. City. Suburban. Farm.
Twcnty.see-
ond ... lTsa:a.7D5 JS.S24.SSV J32T.10O
Twntr-lhlrd 1S.S21.SV0 1.70.4M JS-Mlon
Thlrtr-flrth.. 110.870 7.201, 4r,'i 6.28V,no
Flrtr-nrlt... S 682.17 8 6J4 UT, 414.IHK)
Forir-Moond 83.411,783 12,117'' s 10 4.433.030
These wards wer kept rt t ret because
of the poor tax levied there, but their totals
are Included In the grand total.
MAN WITH KNIFE TRIES
TO GET INTO WILSON'S
AUTO IN PTTSBURGH
Jumps on Running Board and
Makes Determined Effort
to Disturb'' tho
President
CARRIED SATCHEL IN HAND
PITTSBURGK, Oct 20. While Presi
dent Wilson waa riding in Pittsburgh to
day a man carrying a bhvek satchel made
determined efforts to "Jump on the running
board v of the President's cah He was
finally overpowered and hustled off to a
station house by policemen.
At tne station house the man gave ths
name of Wchard Cullen. Ho Is a Pitts
burgher, twenty-two years old.
When questioned he said he wss dls
satisfied with tho President's handling of
European affairs, but did not admit that
he Intended to attack the President
In the satchel, tho police say, was found
a long-bladed knife and several chisels. The
clasp of the satchel was unfastened.
After examining the prisoner, the police
expressed the belief that Cullen is Insane
ard decided to hold him for Investigation.
His conversation at first was quiet In
tene, but soon became bitter, and he roundly
denounced the President's policies.
$Phe incident occurred right In the heart
of the city, at Fifth enue and gmlthneld
street Th,e crpwd there was very dense
and tha Prsaldtnt's autompblla was forced
to move stewly.
Cutte )Hd on the ruwOmr tgard and
tried te etamfeeriver the dv. 'H was
grasped by a store, servlee man riding with
tfc PresWant ai4 pushed Up the street
JumflFf ttf be qutekly oaugfct the automo
bile mA renewed Ms efforts. Fn4 taak-
wn W th " th r "Bd '"
u the crowd M.fell down.
UftsTSStr-ff-i wtw Jumped for sMtM
iSMtSTalset. City deUoMves 44
him a WW " "" .T" T ?
L.tJl.- LlaJlfc 1a ttx -----
Jwi gaWW wW. " suiwMM vUr to
arrest
i j ; '
vvABHlNOTON. Oct. tatsrsOU
cZm.roeCo.nnVlL.lw. today rVtei tftat all
Mdla-read animal muat aay W fM
wtao l.y trel nwf tk wtMtl.
U.G. I. STOCK ADVANCES
TO m HIGHEST PRICE
SINCE 1910; UP TO 931-2
Shows Gain of 4V Points as
Compared With Tuesday's
Close 7800 Shares
Change Hands
RUMOR OF LONGER LEASE
Stock of the United Gas Improvement
Company today sold at the highest price
since 1910 In the trading on the Philadel
phia Stock Kxchange, The stock was tho
most active of the distinctly local Issues,
and early In the day tha price was marked
up to 91U. The top mark in 1910 was
95 U, At the top mark the stock showed a
gain of 114 points as compared with the
closing price of Tuesday, the upward move
having started In the late trading on
Wednesday afternoon. There was a reac
tion from the best price today, .and the
stock went below the final of yesterday
By S o'clock more than 7300 shares had
changed hands.
To.account for the strength, In the atock
there were many rumors in circulation on
the Stock Kxchange floor and In brokers'
offices. The moct interesting one of thesO,
from a public point of view, was that the
United Gas Improvement Company would
take steps to have its lease with tti city
extended for another twenty years, Tho
present lease docs not expire until Decem
ber It, 1917, the lease being for thirty
years when it was originally made
Ths report In the Street had it that the
new lease would be, on the basis of 73
eents per thousand cubto feot; to the con
sumer, whluh will be in effect when the
lease new In foroe Mplree. This prke does
not go Into effeot until January 1, 1918.
The argument hoard In ike Ananeial dU
trtot for boosting the stook on thki rumor
was that it would lead, to greater sales of
gas'by Um eotmwny to the twnwimera,
NO MliCtiH COWTJSMf-LATWl
When the aUonUtwa at Vamuel T. Hodtne,
preetdoitt of the sampauy, waa oaUed to
the report fct lawgnM. Mr. Bad aW
tfcat oMeiata f Use nnmnnsiy have nav
afwtai Itmtrtst to Mm estenjtoa of Mm
teaae- - Ho W denied ttwt. the eosajkuiy
uWr scssaM wallow the cutting of a
sjsslw
.?jv.W.
swarSssjsjwaB y twsswbssb assi
f , ! I
NSBSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSBk.
BpBBBBBBBBsak "uaBBM
Mir
m rae Kwt.
MRS. GEORGE W. HANDY
Formerly Miss Dora Keen, who is
in tho city with her husband, whom
sho married in tho Alaska mountains.
MRS. HANDY, MOUNTAIN
BRIDE, BRINGS HUSBAND
BACK TO "CIVILIZATION"
Former Miss Keen, Conqueror of
Mou.nt Blackburn, Returns
With Spouse She Met
on Peak
MR. HANDY LIKES ALASKA
Mrs. George W. Handy, who surprised
and delighted her Philadelphia friends
when,, as Dora Keen, she married the In
trepld mountain climber after a mountain
climbing experience In Alaska, Is visiting
In Philadelphia with her husband.
For two daya the Handya hae been
guests nt the Ardmore home of Mrs. Ilow
ard Butcher, who like Mrs. Handy, la a
daughter of Dr. W W Keen. Today they
took up their residence with her father.
Mrs. Handy talked today of her plans.
Her husband had gone motoring with his
father-in-law. From what hla wife said he
Is not enthusastlo about what he finds In
these parts. She told a story when she was
aakecU just haw he liked It here after his
years of adenture over the world and In
Alaska,
"When we left," she said, "an old pros
pector said to my husband: 'It's going to
be an awfully long winter outside.'"
She laughed then and said: "And we're
only here two days, and I believe he's
oountlng'tlme already."
It should be explained that when the
prospector said '"outside" lio meant "civil
ization " Up in the part of Alaska, where
Mr. and Mrs. Handy were, they calf"lt "In
side" -which means "where civilisation Is
not"
Mrs. Handy would not even show a plo
ture of her husband, much less give one.
The nearest shr would come to describing
him was to say thnt he was "short, but very
strong." He njBo "dislikes notrlety," his
wife said, I
Mrs. Handy is petite herself.
Visiting friends, traellng in the United
States and In Canada, and lectures here
and there will bo her program until the
Continued on l'aco Two, Column Four
NEGRO RIDE STEALERS
SHOOT RAILROAD COPS
One Dead, Qne Injured "After At-
tempt to Get Meri Off Trajn
at Fairview, P
HAKRISBURO, Oct 30. One lallroad
otMoer was shot through the heart and died
IcyiaiHIy and another is in a.hoepltaj with
a bullet wound n hie leg as tits result of
aa oApeVs attempt to arrest two nenrpos
for train riding ct West Falrvlow this mern-
Tbe dead man is J, U Www, of L
nktm, and, the injured mm t Marry
ChtW, of thla city. The negroes were ItUor
arreotod by ihj Harrlbu4C polks,
QUICK NEWS
HUGHIiS BACKERS WARY OF 10 TO 7 1-2 ASKED
NEW YOltK, Oct. SO. Huglici backers on the curb weic re
ported holding Tack their money In tho fnce of the odds demanded by
Wilson supporter of 7 1-3 to 10 today. Only one lairjo bet, $10,000
to $8000 oil Hughes was lecouled.
CINCINNATI, Oct SO. Lee Heine, batting commissioner, an
nounced today that he had $3000 to bet on Wilson at even money. Ho.
placed three bets Thursday at $1800 to $1000, $1200 to $1000 and
$2100 to $2000, Hughes bciiiR tho favorite in onch case.
TODAY.'S RACING RESULTS
'l'lrst Lauml iact, ninldcn Uycav-olds, nclllng, & 1-3 furlongs
rirfct Elliot, 113, Mctcnl, $3.00, $3.00, $3.10, won; Lottery, 115,
Keogli, $3.80, $0.0U, tond; N. K. Heal, 110, Dutwell, $3.70, third.
Tlluc, 1.10 1-5.
. "CONSCIENCE FUND" RICHER HY SHOO
WASlitNOTO.V. Oct. 20. Tho Conclenco Fund" of the Treasury Department
ns Incirnsed by $1100 tills afternoon. Tho money ns mailed anonymously from
Hrooklu.
CONNAUGHT FAMILY RACK IN LONDON
LONDON'. Oct. 20. Tho Duke of Comiaught, former Governor Gencrnl of
Canada, the Duchess of Counaugtit nnd tho PrlnccsvPutricla reached 1-ondon today-
Haw la Have
WAMUXCIT0N, OS. M.-tltt Say
MittBont nene wis sjcwrnexm int
hi oU nt tts4 tbe Mastery of tk
Anwrioan navy, aeroplanes will be used
this autumn aa scouts (or Uts Atlantic
otilla, at destroyer.
CRUDE OIL PRICES UP 10 CENTS "
n'TTSnunail. Oct. :o. rrlocs for all Kmdcs of crude oil wero advanced 10
cents a barrel by the Joseph Keep l'urchnsinc Agrncy today. or.cept IlaMaml, which
was raised B cents n barrel1 The new tiuotntlons follow: Pennsylvania. $2.60:
Mercer black. Ncwcnstlo nnd Cornlnir, $210. Cabell. 52.2. Somerset, 1195; Hor
land, 80 cents. '
STRIKE OF OIL WORKERS AT BAYCNX2 ENDED
nAYO.WV:. :: J ct -0 lm c.l warKcra strike that resulted in tho killing
of three persons, tho wounding of thirty and spread a rclffn of terror throughout
Itnyonno ended today. Tho majority of tho men went back to work under tho
promlso of John Moltltt and John A. Smith, investigators for tho Kcdoral Depart
ment of Labor, to remain hero and continue their efforts to obtnln nn Incrcaso In pay.
GREEK KING'S CONFIDANT KILLED BY LIVE WIRE
Ni:V YOHK, Oct. 20. Colonel Carroll J. Frnnpoudls, forncrly nluo.donmp
to King Constantino of Greece, was killed Instantly today, when ho stepped on a
llvo wire which hnd been blown donn In n storm. Tho Colonel was a personal friend
of the Greek monarch nnd Is said to haxo come to America on a special mission
for his sovereign. ,
HUGHES WINS U. OF P. LAW SCHOOL STRAW VOTE
In n HiiRlies-WHson straw vote, undergraduates of tho law school of tho
University of Pennsylvania favor Hughes. Tho nrst-year mon gao Hughes thirty
llvo votes arid Wjlson fifteen nnd tho second-year rncn Rao Hughes twenty-nine
puu ,v iiiui) iiuiuici'n
f'XJbi".
ONE PARALYSIS DEATH: 'ONE NEW GASE K.
Ono new 'use ind -jno death from Infuntllo parolys.l ware reported to the Hoard
of Health today, making n total of 018 casea nnd 283 deaths slnco the first of the
jcar. he death In .that or Samuel Dorrjloycad.. cloven nontl,3 old, 61$7, Glenmorcr
nvenua. nnd the new rs" 't Marstnret Wlllott, uibht months old, 232 West Thompson
street.
$7,000,000 LOSS ON MINED ALAUNIA
LONDON', Oct 20, Tho vnluo of tho cargo nntFtho steamship Alaunln, which
was sunk In tho Kngllsh Channel yesterday by ajnlne, Is estimated at $7,000,000.
Sho carried nearly $3,000,000 worth of war supplies. Tho loss falls heavily on Amer
ican Insurance companies, as tho amount placed ylth British underwriters was
small. '
VILLA HOLDS LARGE PORTION OF CHIHUAHUA STATE
EL PARO, Tex., Oct. 20 Tho entire western nnd Houthcrn portions of (he
Mexican State of Chihuahua aro now under control of Kranclsio Villa, according to
admissions made by Mexican do facto ofllclals at Juarez today, as details of tho
bandit chief's bold raid last Thursday on tho town of San Andres began to reach
tho border.
TROOPS WILL REMAIN ON BORDER FOR THE PRESENT
i
WASHINGTON, Oct. 20 No further Important rollof of border troops 1h con
templated by tho War Department until after the Amorkan-Moxlean Pcaca Com.
mission at Atlantic City teaches a decision, it wns learned today. If this la satis
factory tho troops. It Ih said, will return In a body. Otherwise all will probably bo
left at their present border iitnllons.
KAISER SNUBS CHANCELLOR'S OPPONENTS
ni:HI,I.N', Oct 20 Tlint tho Kaiser Is determined to utand by Chancellor on
Iiethmann-Uollwtg, In spltn of tho political attacks iignlnst him. is shown by an
Incident that wa revinled today A petition asking tho resignation of the Chan
cellor was sent to thu Kaiser, but he refused to rccelvo It. Later tho signatories
tried to get an audience with the Kaiser but he refused to receive them.
ASPHYXIATED IN EFFORT TO RESCUE MINERS
BAmtACKVILLn, W. Va., Oct. 20 Superintendent L. M. Jones, of tho mine
rescue car from Pittsburgh, was aaphixlated while trjlng to reach entombed men
nt Jamison No. 7 mine today Hppo for tho nine' men believed to bo sealed In one
of the mine chnmbers has been nlmnst abandoned, Tho workings nro filled with JtoS.
FRENCH TO HONOR. AMERICAN NEUROLOGIST
PAItlR, Oct. 20, Stephen Pithon, president of tho Senate Committee on Foreign
Affairs, said today that a large delegation will ofllclally represent the French Gov
cbiment nt a reception which is to bo tendered Dr Morton Prince, Doctor 1'rince, a
famous American neurologist, recently arrived In Franco bearing a, petition ex
pressing sympathy with the French cause. It bore 6Q0 American algnntures,
6000 MINERS STRIKE FOR EIGHT-HOUR DAY
rUNX8UTA3yNKY, I'u., Oct 20. Six thousand miners employed In seven
mines of tho Rochester and Pittsburgh Coal and Iron Company In this vicinity are
Idle as a result of a strike The outside men at all the workings demand an eight
hour day with ten hours' pay i
AMERICAN SCHOONER. AGROUND OFF BRAZIL
IMIIIA. Brazil, Oct, 20, The American achooner Cora F. Cressy, 246$ tons,
from New York August 20 for lllo Janeiro, tsit n t (i in tjajtd Bank Ba,y, near hofa,
BRITISH SEIZE AMERICAN FISHING SCHOONHR
LQNDONi Oct, . Th American ftWn(f schoonor' BieMrd wCkwk has boon
captured In the waters around. Ieoland and taken to Gritasby,
SERBS SWEEP
AHEAD INDRIVE
' FOR MONASTIR
Smash Enemy's Second De
fense Line on Mace
donian Front
RUMANIANS STRIKE BACK
Allies Beat Back Fierce German
Attacks on the
Sommo
U-BOAT SINKS STEAMSHIP; BARK.SB1' AFIRB
LONDON, Oct, M. TtM sinking pt tho Norwegian alejunotifp ffeea bq a flsrw
tubmaftne witfeout previous xamln4t4 U report! by Houtr Qoqtttkagm tot-
rosponasnt, Tho autaen mombers or te crew 'wore mimoa at mriamnand VMiaMMaf' fit
ftft& bark Oreta Vrem was act afire by a Hotrmm sutemvtn. TWtxa man I iSt ti'irrt ' Jf l
from tite uarK wore uuvooa at rrioflncftsnaven.
MAKKS a,IW-P0UNI) CATCH OF MACKKL
MOftWOJTr Oot. , Captain Joan Motheoon brouakt ittm MUinm ochuoner Attaur
Janaa In her with ),e pounds of roackere) a4 Ute liter raoora for a total
catch JM,00 pound in thrro caata of tha sail. Ttib total Mtimr eaca mMt vt
Mia r'1 U aa bis esrnjfms iros Monday afternoon to today.
In the face of stubborn Bulgarian re
sistance, Serbian troops have pushed
two miles northward in their advance
on the Bulgarian base at Monostlr, oc
cupying tho village of Volessolo, it was
officially announced today,
The Fortytfourth and Twentyrctghtk
Bulgarinn Regiments, the official Ser
bian statement declares, have been de
feated nnd four machine guns, three
field guns and eighty prisoners taken.
Tho Serbian claims of further suc
cesses wero flatly contradicted by Uw
German War Office this afternoon. The
Berlin official statement admitted that
tho Serbs had made somo gainB, but de
clared the new Serbian offensive in tha
bend of the River Ccrna had bee
checked. v
Because of tho Serbian offensive and
the tense situation at Athens the
Balkans held tho center of the war
stage 'today. Fragmentary messages
from tho Greek capital indicated that
the situation was agaht more critical
despite severe military measures re
ported yesterday.
On tho western front heavy ralna
continued to impedo operations through
out yesterday nnd last night. The Ger
mnns reported the rccapturo of trenchea
north of tho Somme, but otherwise
French, British and German "War Of
fices agreed there were no develop
ments of importance. ,
SERUIANS CAPTURE VILLAGES
IN MACEDONIA; ROUT FOES' "
WHO FLEE -IN DIS'QRDE
53ry..-it-. .AaT
, TAIU8, Oct 10.
Serbian troops have scored a brilliant suc
cess In their new advance on the Bulgarian
base at Monnstlr, It was omcl&lly announced
today,
Following the capture of the village ot
nrod, the Serbs advanced on the left bank
ot the Itlver Ccrna. carrying the plateau
and lllnge of Volessolo nnd Inflicting heavy
losses on the enemy. The Bulgarians fled
In disorder, leaving three guns, several rn.
chine guns and a hundred prisoners in
Serbian hands. The entire second Bulgar
defenso line Is in the hands of tha Serbians, '
who are now assailing their foes' third
line.
Another contingent of Italian troops has '
been landed at Salonlco. News ot their ar
rival was received here today. Tne Italians
will at once Join the a)led armies fighting
the Germans and Bulgarians on tha Mace
donian front'
SOFIA. Oct JO.
The battle which developed between the
Serbians and Bulgarians along the Cerna
river, In Macedonia, is it'll In progress.
The War Office in an official report today
said that both the Infantry righting and
the ort.lWry dueling were extremely violent ,
On the Struma river front, the report
adds, there Is much rcconnoltering apt .
big-gun dueling;
RUMAMAjfTItOOPS WREST ,
INITIATIVE FROM TEUTONS
ON TRANSYLVANIA FRONT
LONDON, Oct 29. The Teuton offensive
planned by General Falkenhayn has been "
checked and tho Humanlans have begun a
new attack In an effort to clear the frontier
of the last Teuton detachments.
On the eastern front they forced baek
the enemy und took 900 prisoners, wall
on the southern front south of KronsUdt,
they threw the German troops back oyer
the border. Thus two points at whMi
Falkenhajn'a forces Invaded Rumanian soli
are free of' enemy troops.
The Itumanlan situation grows 'lees anx
ious hourly, for the offensive seems to have
passed definitely from the hands of tho
Germans. With the battle on the east front
again in full swing, It seems hardly Ukehr
thai Falkenhayn can muster enefk roaa
to strike again In force against tM Ks
manlan border.
For King Ferdinand's tree tM ssoat
Impcrtant success was won in fbe Tretua
VcUey, hi eastern HvuaanU, wheeOw Q
hum had penetrated ten nMies Into Kmg
Ferdinand's aounlry. Near Agaa the Ger
mans were fareed to retke, .leaving., ,v ,;7:
prisoners bettiad. ad in afioUter 'soots
tr Tlly tHr Wt ' 'KUoaora U out
A'Ws"Wo Nv J?
outh of KHMMejtsK, aojtr lreliet
for a tlw WM OHiin tawaatai
vji rUway W Un ml. a tftan al
dee bafk Um tUMtmrn keyssst tha
lUa At th aftkM psias mlmm
m trojst tlM tMMtia agrnsHy stUI avok'-
UM RMSMMiMH,
BerUo sbjMi Httia asais
iSm0 WWSjajisap pospa.snsj.
ai-1 - ena at ''eeMtftaaaiil
t arocreas la
haoertaaa ot-
j tMSV llrtwsi MtUa inserted victory oa
tv ajsaii u numamane aac h
TtMW to much InleroM la tfca
f Um ftorWaa offeiistv aitbousjk
utMsmaneUre n U nrst phaasa tt
tow to ha dkiiiin t
stataae on the eaat oaoaM to
seriously luwalred, srauo tbt
Vl19fa,l!if'Ji
C,t.A
