* ~v : ?:>-'-:-?^^lHlMVB V^IRVVHHVHHHMVHVVVVVHKVVil^VVKV^^HVi^^^H^^MISI ^3*
? *$ ' 7 * / ' ' ' ' '" ' ' ' ' '".-. ." 'f ' * ' ' " ' " * ' " * ("' :"*"v _: * '"* j
% ...
WEATHER. ,;[ Lf^lV I r\ Q-From IWf Horn.
Partly cloudy and colder tonight. To- MI ^ ^ A_ ^ ^ ^ - > ^ ^ ^ a 1 L WU
fair, much B I P /A H
lit 11(7 . 51fTTi 17TTTTT ^pAI Ti M wrato?<fccffo<,
p.m.: Highest. p.m. VI jM WT If V ?\ V V 1' V
today: lowest. 63, at 6 a.m. today. H H H H H H H H S H V V
Fu,l report on pa,e IS. ^ ^%A^>V4 r>V^ ^\%tAf
1 ^ ^ Snoii Het Clmilatloa. Mratk Septesifcep.
CLOSING NEW YORK STOCKS PACE IS. iia ^ < W Dally Annn. ?4?l SaaSay. MM
No. 29,477. WASHINGTON, D. C., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1916?TWENTYtTWO PAGES. * ONE CENT.
?? ? 1
CHICAGO MEN TEAR
WOMEN'S BANNERS
* ?i
Anti-Wilson Suffragettes and
President's Feminine
Friends Also Fight.
*
MELEE ALONG LAKE FRONT
BY N. 0. MESSENGER.
CHICAGO. October 20.?Let me give
you a picture of the great American
political public in action in a section
where for the time they at least think
they are all excited. We will revert to
the vernacular to make the account
easier of recital and deprive it of ponderous
importance.
This happens at the corner of Congress
street and Michigan avenue, between
the Auditorium Hotel and the
Congress Hotel, the Auditorium Theater.
where Fresident Wilson is to speak,
being just back of you as you look toward
the lake. He is to address there
a congregation of feminine voters at 4
% o'clock.
Massed on the two corners are some
twenty-five ladies, bearing banners displaying
legends referring deprecatingly
to President Wilson's attitude toward
nation-wide woman suffrage. The
President is soon to pass that way and
the banners are intended to rebuke
him.
Soon a crowd collects. Imposing
looking mounted officers ride hard upon
* the populace. The crowd increases.
Mere Man Dodges Argument.
"Hoorav for Wilson," says a man in
cap and sweater and smoking a pipe.
"Wait till I argue with you," retorts
the lady.
But he takes a draw at fiis dhudeen
and says, "There ain't no argument."
Whereupon he stalks off.
"Go home and attend to your knitting."
cries some one in the crowd.
C onte out here and say that to me,
hotly retorts the lady, and forth steps
an anemic-looking youth. The lady
gives him one look and a sniff of disdain.
"Beat it." says a husky man
standing by. and he beats it.
"This is an outrage," says a gentle- '
man. gloved and caned and trouser
creased to perfection, addressing the
policeman nearby. "I think it should
be stopped, insulting the President of
the United States this way."
"It ain't making thim republicans no
votes." says the officer.
Two Women Start a Bow.
* Suddenly there is a light, and everybody
crowds forward to see the fracas.
A big copper grabs both belligerents
and tells them to go away and not be
so serious.
Then there is another sqpap.
A Wilson lady marches up and
smsuriMC her umbrella through one of
the offending banners. The bearer
promptly crashes the frame of the banner
upon her head, and it looks like
trouble until a policeman says, "Now,
ladies-?I know you are perfect ladies?
take a car and go home like good girls
that ye be."
In a dozen places arguments are going
on. The Wilson men are indignant
over the banners and make no bones of
it. The cops have to interfere frequently.
The onlookers are as busy as a boy {
at his first three-ring circus trying to
see what is going on all at one time.
Then there is a clamor of motor j
cycies cnoniing up .vucnigan avenue
from down toward the Blackstone
Hotel. It in the advance guard of the
President's entourage.
"Hooray for Wilson," cry the democrats
as the President's machine flashes
by and he looks and laughs at the.carriers
of the banners. Mrs. Wilson smiling.
too.
"She had her orchids on." says one
woman within my hearing. which
probably showed the extent of her interest
in this political gathering.
Then the trouble begins. It was
probably started by the lady who
smashed the banner. The men take a
hand. One fellow grabs a banner, cuts
it up and passes the pieces around as
souvenirs. Others emulate his example.
and soon there is a near-riot. Moving
picture men are exploding flashlights
to get this scene and frightening
the horses of the officers trying to
keep traffic open.
Te*r Up Women's Banners.
Finally, the officers hold up all\vehicles,
rush m the ladies w ith banners
across to the other side of the avenue;
fronting the park, and there literally;
turn them loose with their placards to'
fare as best they may. for better or for
worse?and it Is worse.
In a jiffy the crowd pounces upon
them and tears their banners in pieces,
disporting gayly across the grass as
they shred them. The police meanwhile
are busy uncongealing the traffic that
blocks the avenue for half a mile, in
either direction, six columns wide.
The President has of course passed
long ago to the Auditorium, where he
is making his address; the offending
^ banners are destroyed, the ladies tieparted.
the curious crowds finding
nothing further to divert them have
left for home. All is peace on Michigan
avenue, save the everlasting chug chug
of the Illinois Central trains in the
freight yards over the way.
But Chicago is having one grand
time over woman exercising her first
right of suffrage in a presidential campaign.
Women Claim Police Failed
to Afford Them Protection
Against Rioters in Chicago
* CHICAGO, October 20.?An unpleas?
ant feature of President Wilson's visit
x to Chicago yesterday was a near-riot
in which banners borne by women opposing
the President's re-election were
torn from their hands and destroyed.
The outbreak occurred just after the
President had passed, but he was not
a witness to it.
Shouting "shame.'' "disgrace* and
"get the banners." a crowd of several
hundred, sprinkled with women,
charged the banner holders. I'mbrelias
and canes were used in the destruction
of the placards. Many of the women
were knocked down and nearly all
were roughly handled, especially those
who strove to retain their banners.
The excitenient continued until all
the banners had been seized. With
disheveled hair and soiled and torn
clothing, the women marched back to
their headquarters under police guard.
Charges that the police sympathized
with the rioters and failed to protect
the demonstrators were made by Mrs.
Josephine Pearce and Mrs. E. L. Mattice.
officials of the local Woman's Republican
Clubs.
"There were all kinds of policemen
standing about merely looking on. not
moving a hand.'' said Mrs. Pearce.
"Some of them didn't seem to want to
help us. 1 saw policemen deliberately
stand nearby and laugh at us while we
were being beaten and the banners
IDrii nwin vu? iimimo.
"We were merely standing quiet,
- ?... '
holding our banners and not harming
any one. Suddenly there was a regular
riot. They grabbed our banners. ,
trampled on them and knocked us ,j
down. It was terrible#'*
Members of the Congressional Union
compared the scene at the demonstration
with the suffrage parade in "Washington
the day before President Wilson
was inaugurated. "The disgraceful
attack upon the suffrage demonstration
is similar to the attack by mobs
upon the great suffrage parade. Mr.
Wilson is unfortunate that he runs I
the risk of going out of office to the <
same tune by which he entered," said
Mrs. A. R. Colvin, Minnesota state
chairman of the Congressional Union.
SHORTAGEOFMILK ,
FOR MARKET HERE
Supply Already Several Hundred
Gallons Daily Less Than
Requirement. 1
i
FARMERS THREATEN STRIKE J
Washington already faces a shortage 0
in its milk supply of many hundred t
gallons daily, according to leading dis- *
tributers of milk, who discussed the 1
situation today. Shortages in the sup- r
ply in the past the distributers have
been able to make up by calling upon
the producers in Pennsylvania and
New York, but they said today that a
they found it impossible to do this a
now. r
Added to this condition to make the Y
milk situation in the District more o
precarious is the fact that the producers
of milk in Maryland and Vir- ^
ginia, at a meeting of the executive a
committee of the producers' associa- rr
tion yesterday afternoon, declared in s'
unequivocal terms that if they are not
given a "living price" for their milk P
they will strike and send no milk to
i. T*I? li
wasnington ai an. xnc mccung ???*o
held in the Munsey building, at head- *
quarters of the executive committee. *
Selling Below Cost. *
One milk distributer said today that tl
he had been paying recently 40 cents d
a gallon for milk, which he is retail- a
ing for 36 cents fn order to make it tl
possible to fill his customers* orders. e
Of five milk distributers interviewed p
today, all said that they were several G
gallons short daily of the amount F
which they required for their business.
At the meeting of the executive committee
yesterday one of the leading
Washington distributers announced
that he was in the market for from a
300 to 500 gallons of milk daily, and
asked the co-operation of the producers
in obtaining this additional supply.
The executive committee of the Pro- c!
ducers* Association said that it was w
very glad to co-operate with the distributers
in such matters, and it was n
pointed out that through such co-oper- ir
atien much drtJtaulty might be avoided p
in the future. * ^
Milk Producers Determined. d'
c?
It was made plain at the meeting
yesterday that the farmers in Mary- ^
land and Virginia supplying Washing- d
ton with milk are serious in their de- T
termination to call a "milk strike" if tl
they do not get better prices for their
product. o
From the reports of milk shortage already
existing in the city, and the difficulty
of the distributers to find /J
milk elsewhere, it appears that the
farmers of the country are producing
less milk, owing, in part, to the increase
in the cost of feed and also
to the facj that they have turned their
attention to wheat growing this year, j
which has proved so lucrative.
Organizing the Producers.
The work of organizing the producers
into local unions in the various counties
t has . already been begun and will
be pushed forward rapidly during the b
next week. The executive committee j
is made up of men representing each t
of the ten counties in Maryland and j.
Virginia which supply Washington with j
milk. Each of these men has been
designated chief organizer for his ~
i county. They were instructed to work
| as rapidly as possible and to report at 1
I a meeting of the executive committee n
| to be held Monday, October 30. j
The committeemen reported that the
| farmers are growing desperate over the *
milk situation and would be eager to
participate in any plan whereby they
could get a better price for their x
product. j
"We are losing money every day we ^
produce mjlk now," said one big pro- ^
ducer at the meeting yesterday, "and ^
with the present high prices of stock J
feed and supplies we have either got J
to have more money or go out of busi- t
ness." j
Dallas Berry, organizer for Fairfax a
j county, said yesterday that he already
i has called a meeting of the milk pro- | r
! du? ers in that county for next Monday. f
! Me<Jill Belt, in charge of Frederick j
county, said that he expected to have ^
;t meeting of the Frederick county producers
early in the week.
HOLDING UP OF PENSIONS (
IS CHARGED AND DENIED
1 ]
Republican Accusation Met With As- I (
sertion That It Was Prompted |f
by Politics.
jf
The charge that pension applications |
are being held up wholesale by thei*
pension office for political purposes |(
; was made today by national republican j
congressional committee headquarters, and
denied promptly and vehemently J
by pension office officials.
The statement from republican con- <
gressional headquarters unequivocally 1
accused the pension office heads of re- *
fusing to pass on applications from '
veterans of the civil war, Spanish
American war and the Philippine campaigns
until after election.
The pension office, through Deputy
j Commissioner Tieman, made a brief reI
ply that "this was all politics, and not 1
a word of truth." The situation, he
said, had been brought about by an or- 1
der placing a large part of the office
force on the work of cleaning up the
new rush of applications for an increase
under the Ashbrook widows'
pension act, just passed by Congress.
? - ? -?
Save Today's Paper
for the School
Children's Playground
Fund.
3 .
ADJUTANT GENERAL
FOR HALFHOLIDAY
Wakes Favorable Report to
Secretary of War on
Proposal.
CABINET MAY BE A UNIT
All-year-round Saturday half holiiflvs
for government employes re
reived another boost today from the
lead of one of* the largest bureaus of
he War Department, Adjt. Gen. McCain.
He made a favorable report to
he Secretary of War.
In consequence of "preparedness"
egislation the adjutant general's office
s swamped with work just now and
t has been necessary for weeks past
o keep many of its employes at work
intil 10 o'clock at night. Because of
he frequent calls for extra, work withut
extra compensation, Gen. McCain
akes the ground, it is understood, that
he employes of his office are entitled
o the benefits of a weekly chance to
ecuperate.
Prospects Improve Daily. ~
Prospects of an early granting of the
11 -year-round Saturday half holiday
re improved every day with additional
eplies from cabinet officers to the
'resident's letter asking their opinions
f the proposition. Six replies, five of
rhich are known to be favorable, are
efore the chief executive. Before the
abinet members who are yet to reply
re the practically unanimous indorselents
of bureau chiefs who have been
funded out on the proposition.
The replies of the heads of the de
?,! I Iinril IB ui 'lair, .1 unm,c, uauvi ,
reasury, Agriculture and Commerce
ave gone forward. The temporary
fhite House has yet to hear from the
avy. War, Post Office and Interior deartments.
and it is expected that these
ill certainly be favorable, because of
le great pile of favorable reports from
le bureau and division chiefs in these
epartments.
Backing up these indorsements also
re those from labor organizations
iroughout the city, which have workrs
in the various government departlents.
The President's inquiry was
rompted by an appeal from Samuel
ompers, president of the American ?
ederation of Labor.
Likely to Be Unanimous. M
Replies from the other departments 11
re expected within a short time. If
lese officials act on the recommendaons
of their bureau and division
hiefs, as is expected, these replies, too,
ill be favorable, making the indorselents
of the cabinet officers unanitous
The four who have not yet relied
have delayed because of absences D
xrm "Washington. Secretary Lane -is
etained with the Joint commission ,
inalderlng the-Mexican difficulties. I
The Attorney General not only favors
le proposition, but has given MlTopinm
that it will be lawful for the Presient
to grant it by executive order,
he acting secretary of labor, one of
ie first to act on the suggestion, urgtl
it heartily. The Secretary of Corn- CI
lerce also is strongly aligned in favor 1 1
f the principle.
iRCHITECTS WIN SUIT;
MRS. HENDERSON LOSES ?
lurphy & Olmsted Awarded "Verdiet
for 82,397 for Sketching ati
Plans of Lincoln Memorial. iS1'
'4U
Murphy & Olmsted, architects, have to
een awarded a verdict for $2,397 by a tet
ury in Circuit Division 2, before Jus- ad
ice Siddona,-against Mrs. Mary Foote
ienderson, widow of former Senator He
lenderson of Missouri. ta
The architects sued to recover com- *>>'
ensation for services in sketching *n'
dans and making drawings for a menorial
to Abraham Lincoln, which Mrs.
fenderson sought to have Congress loate
on tlie site of Meridian liill Park, *so
opposite Henderson Castle. *'r
The architects testified that they had
worked four months in 1912 in prepar- nH
ng the plans under the direction of ci;
Jrs. Henderson and had not been re- a
mbursed. The defendant, denied that
the was indebted, as claimed, and 1
leaded the statute of limitations on PL
he theory that the work was completd
more than three years before the fil- ^
ng of the suit. The jury found for the rM
irchitects. ^
Attorneys Frank J. Hugan and Kdnund
P. Jones appeared for the archieots.
Mrs. Henderson was represented
?y Attorneys Arthur Peter arid J. W. j
iVhiting. " j Fr
TO URGE WHEAT EMBARGO. C(
Chicago Master Bakers to Take Up j?
Bread Question With Congressmen.
I'lIK'ACO. October 20.?When K. H. ,y
3alheimer, president of the Master Bak?rs'
Association of Chicago, observed
shortly after the opening of the board of
rade today that wheat had advanced *-*
cents more, December at the moment **
,?uinn (i en i ij. ti
>*; ?! lift ai fi.U-j, lit; K1K1.
"That settles it; something: must be
lone or there will be seven-cent bread in rft
Chicago." ft
Mr. Dalheimer and a committee failed
resterday in an attempt to bring the subject
to the attention of President Wilson.
"We will take up the question of an gj
embargo on exportations until the do- 01
nestic situation is relieved with our con- u
pressmen and arrange in that way to a
r>ring it before Mr. Wilson," said Mr. O
Dalheimer. vi
si
MUTINY IN POLISH LEGION.
Organization Recruited in Service of ^
f?prmQnu PonnrtAfl tn TTaVP Pnllansprl lu
MVJlVi UVU kV V WVUW|>HV? IA>NDON,
October 20.?A dispatch al
from Bern, Switzerland, to the wire- 01
Less press says:
"Germany's Polish legion has col- P"
lapsed. After long efforts and coercive
pressure Germany and Austria- t(
Hungary succeeded in enrolling 18,000 tl
Poles. They were divided into six bri- **
gades.
'."Four brigades mutinied at the be- ti
ginning of October and they were dis- n:
armed and imprisoned in the Brest- u:
Litovsk barracks. The remnants of the ci
legion, were sent to the interior of o
Austria, the troops being considered ti
unreliable" S
vi
V
Bran
TRENCHES IN WEST
ritish Lose Positions Be- C
ween Eaucourt L'Abbaye
and Le Barque, Says Berlin.
RENCH CONTINUE ADVANCE B
the Associated Press.
BERLIN*. October 20. by wireless to w
yvilie.?The greater part of the trench on
the road between Eaucourt J'Ab
by the British October 18, were re- j f
ken yesterday by German troops in an j t(
Lack, according to the official statement (
sued today at the German army headartei*s.
p
Attempts made by British detachments H
advance last night north of Cource- g
te and east of Sars, the statement
ids, failed. On the last great attack 1
ainst the German positions in the a
unme region the Britisii used several ^
nks and three of th in were destroyed J
the German artillery fire, the stateent
declares. ^
French Make Progress.
LONDON. October 20.?In the fighting
t*ih of the River Sornme in France the
ench troops have made fresh progress
tween Biaches and J.a Maisonnette,
ar Peronne, according to a French offitl
communication. North of the Somme
German attack on the French lines
>rth and east of Sailly-Saillisel was reilsed.
The British have slightly advanced ^
eir line at Buite de Warlencourt. Ger- y
an counter attacks in that neighbored
was stopper! by Britisii barrage, it r
declared officially. 1
Take Sailly-Saillisel Quickly. "t
oiii m Staff Correspondent of tli?- Associated ;i
Press.
W ITH Till-: FREN< 'H ARMY NEAR e
jMBLES, via Chantilly, October 20.? V
u icrn iiiiiiimrn *.?? iniaiiirj uguiiiifi
oved sufficient for the French army
? capture the strong position of Sail-Saillisel
from the Germans and to
ive the entente allies command of (
ve miles of the Bapaume road. a
The allies' air mastery deprived the a
ermans of their eyes; consequently o
le German artillery fire was ineffecve,
both in an endeavor to destroy n
ie opposing batteries and in an ef- 1;
>rt to prevent reinforcements and a
lpplies from reaching the attacking
rces through a curtain of tire. ti
d
Position Deemed Impregnable. ?
The Germans had announced that w
lilly-Saillisel was impregnable, in an b
der to the troops, and its rapid cap- J|!
ire, therefore, came as somewhat, of r
surprise to the allied commanders, k
ne Bavarian and two Prussian di- 11
isions participated in the defense,
lowing the importance of the attack
i the position. Despite this, the
rench advanced even farther, occupy- e
tg also the shoulders of two hills to r<
le northeast and northwest of the vil- xj
ige, giving them virtual control of C
iy counter attack from the strongly ?J
rganized German position at Saillisel.
It is told that the Germans have made
owerful positions at Le Transloy and
t. Pierre Vaast wood, which interjmmunicate
by means of deep subrrranean
tunnels, affording shelter to
lousands of men and providing for
leir rapid transfer in security from
lace to place. These tunnels, it is
lid, have narrow railroads for the
ansport of machine guns with ammuItion
to cleverly concealed exits,
nder which elevators bring the gun
rews and their supplies to the surface
r permit them to descend apd make
leir way to other points with the
reatest rapidity.
j
? ESsKd! V :^ 3w fialSftRiSHaBfliKaSwCfiBSsJ
_1T~ ? - ?-? ^ ?
THE SPHINX.
GERMANS STORM
RUSSIAN POSITIONS
Capture 2,064 Officers ,and
Men Along the Narayuvka
in Galicia.
y the Associated Pres*.
BBRL1X, October 20, by wireless to
ayville. ?Merman troops yesterday
tormed important Russian positions
ith adjoining: lines on the west bank
f the River Narayuvka, in Galicia, and
epulsed sanguinary counter attacks, j
ays the German official statement is-1
ucd today. The Germans captured I
ourteen officers and 2.050 men and
L?ok eleven machine guns.
South of Zborow (Galicia) German
utpost^ carried out successful enterrises.
The army of Gen. von Tersztynsky
repulsed advances of Russian
uard detachments. On the Upper
tokhod (Volhynia) several Russian
ranches were captured.
North of Siniawka Russian trenches
,'ere taken on the west bank of the
tokhod. Near Bubnow attacks made
y Russian guard troops were repulsed
fitli considerable loss to the enemy.
.EADER OF RESCUE PARTY
IS ASPHYXIATED IN MINE
.even Others Overcome, But Are
Brought to Surface and
Revived.
FAIRMONT, W. Va., October 20.?L.
I. Jones, a mining engineer sent to
t-arruckville near here yesterday in
barge of a trained crew from the
'ittsburgli station of the bureau of
lines to conduct the work of rescue
t the Jamison mine, where more than j
dozen men had been entombed by an
xplosion, was asphyxiated in the
orkings early today.
Jones, with seven other men, had
eaehed the bottom of the shaft, where
anary birds were released to test
he air. All the birds were almost imlediately
killed, and Jones, who had
d valued farther into the workings,
Iso fell to the tracks. His 'companions
dvancing to his rescue felt the force
f the gas, and one by one were overome.
When they did not return to
he surface another party entered the
line and brought them out. All quick/
recovered except Jones, who had
nnarently died in the mine.
The work of exploring the mine coninued
during the early hours of the
ay, and soon after 6 o'clock the body
f Matthew Allison, the chief electriian,
who was at work in the mine
hen the exploseion occurred, was
rought out. Three other bodies were}
ecovered, among them Allison's asIstant,
A. W. Vance. These men, the j
eseue party said, had evidently been
illed by gas as their bodies bore no
lark of the explosion . ;
New Panaman Envoy Coming, j
NEW YORK, October 20.?Dr. Belisario
E'orras, former President of Panama and
icently appointed as minister to the ]
nited States, arrived here today from 1
ristobal on the steamship Santa Marta 1
n his way to Washington. ]
i
American Coal?Tar Dye
Industry.
The foundation stone has
been laid; bureau of foreign
and domestic commerce has
gathered valuable information
about dyestuffs, and Dr. Thomas
H. Norton of the bureau has
achieved remarkable results.
. y
= 7
(
1
I
RII1FKIIMT
WAR IS OPPOSED
Field Marsteaj von Hindenburg
Urges Agitation for Wider
Activity Be Stopped.
JOINED BY LUDENDORF
AMSTERDAM, via London, October
20.?According to the Berlin newspeper
Gerinania, Field Marshal von
Hindenburg has at last come out emphatically
against a more ruthless
prosecution of Germany's submarine
campaign.
Germania says that at last Saturday's
sitting of the "independent committee
for German peace terms" Privy
Councillor Duisberg appeared before
the committee, saying that he came in
an official capacity as the envoy of
Field Marshal von Hindenburg. .He
added that the tield marshal requested
the committee to abandon all agitation
for a more ruthless prosecution of the
submarine campaign.
Gen. Ludendorf in Line.
BERLIN, October 20.?Gen. von Ludendorf
has joined his chief. Field Marshal
von Hindenburg, in opposing a
more ruthless prosecution of submarine
warfare. Field Marshal von Hindenburg's
position was made plain at
a. meeting cm iue inuci"rnucni i-uniiuiitee
for German peace terms last Saturday,
when, through a personal representative.
he requested the committee
to abstain from agitation for a sharper
submarine campaign.
Gen. von Uudendorf has announced
his views through a letter, which says:
"The hopes of our enemies, based on
extraordinary simultaneous exertions
on all fronts, can only be frustrated
fhrougfivinighty efforts on our part. We
will accomplish this if the German people
stand united behind us/give us their
confidence and do not demoralize the
army by controversies over the expe- .
diency of means and ways to success.
If to the outsider it seems that the
program on certain questions is lacking
this does not prove that the program
is actually at fault."
Field Marshal von Hindenburg's message
had the disadvantage of being delivered
at a private gathering of auditors.
who were not interested in having
it gain a wide circulation. Gen. ,
von Dudendorf's letter, however, has
been sent broadcast throughout the
country, through reports of the meeting
at which it was read being carried
by the press agencies.
Would Stop TJ-Boat War.
AMSTERDAM. October 20.?A demand
for the stoppage of submarine warfare,
coupled with an appeal to the United
Statse to take the initiative toward
that end, is voiced by the Telegraaf. ;
The Telegraaf says:
"Ten days have elapsed since the sub- j
marine war was carried to the door of i
America and nothing has been done.
Are we to understand that our ships
are allowed to be torpedoed right on
the American coast? We say in all
frankness to America that submarine
war must be stopped and Germany must
be told that mistakes, which all the ]
wuuu niiuv? aic ?V "liOlttlVCB, Will I1U j
longer be tolerated. Let America speak {
the redeeming word lest she rue deeply !
in the future having neglected a task K
plainly to be expected from the might- I
est neutral." f \
Germany to Protest Norway's Act. *
AMSTERDAM, October 20.?An official r
communication published today in the j
Sorddeutsche Allgemeine Zeitung says, C
n view of the Norwegian declaration *
vith regard to submarines: "It must be ^
>bserved that the ordinance evidently c
s directed only against Germany and C
:hu8 is incompatible with the spirit of t
:rue neutrality. Consequently the Ger- a
nan minister at ChristianTa has been
nstructed to protest energetically t
igainst the action of the Norwegian s
government." t
SERBS ARE DRIVING
NEARERMONASTIR
Capture Velyeselo in Cerna
Bend?Face Last Enemy
Defense Line.
BULGARS LOSE HEAVILY
Nh
By the Associated Press.
BUCHAREST, October 20. via London.
4:40 p.m.?'The Romaniann have
taken the offensive in the Oituz
valley through which the AustroGennan
force* invaded Rumania, the
war office announced today. They
have driven back the invader* to the
frontier. The repulae of attack* on
other part* of the front al*o la reported.
The Bulgarian and German forces
In Dobrudja have taken the offensive
along; the whole front. They
have forced back the Rumanian left
wing, the war office announced today.
LONDON. October 20.?Serbian troop!
on the western end of the Macedoniai
front are reported successfully con
tinuing their vigorous campaign foi
Monastir. Through Paris today come:
official announcement of the capture o
village of Velyeselo, within the ben<
on the Cerna river, southeast of Monas
tir. The Bulgarians are said to hav<
suffered heavy losses, including 10<
men prisoners and three cannon, and t<
have been put to rout.
The Serbians pushed two miles north
ward to Velyeselo, after taking Brod
capture of which was reported yester
day, forcing their way over the height:
between the two places. They are nov
facing the third and final line of Bui
gariati defenses in this sector, accord
ing to unofficial reports, having pierce<
the second line in taking Brod and tin
Velyeselo positions.
Halted, jSays Berlin.
Berlin today says: The fonvan
movement of the Serbian forces ii
the bend of the River Cerna, ii
southern Serbia, has been haltei
after a temporary Serbian success
North of Nidje Planina and southwes
of Doiran lake weak allied attack:
failed, it is claimed.
Large Bulgarian reinforcements ar<
being sent to the Macedonian front
the Serbian army headquarters an
nounces. On October 17 the Serbiai
troops intrusted with the attack 01
Sokol succeeded in occupying severa
positions on this mountain and in ad
Vancing appreciaoiy xowara me nign
est peak. They continued the advane
October 18.
Battle in Transylvania.
The battle between Austro-Germa
fortes andrltti manSans on the frontie
ridges of Transylvania is progressing
says today's German official statement
while in the Runia'nian province bor
deritig the Black sea the lighting be
tween the Russo-Rumanian at-mies am
the forces of the central powers yes
terday became more lively.
A Rumanian detachment passing l?:
way of Lampris mountain to Agas ii
the Trotus valiev attacked AuscroGerman
forces with the bayonet ant
destroyed twelve of their cannon an<
limbers, according to Bucharest. Thej
forced the enemy to retire and capture*
6<K> prisoners.
Another Rumanian detachment, at
tacking from Goioasa, in the Trotus
surprised the enemy, making oOO pris
oners and capturing some machine
guns.
AUSTRIANS MAKE GAINS
AT "TOOTH OF PASUBIO'1
LONDON, October 20.?Violent fight
ing is in progress on the Trentim
front, in the vicinity of Monte Pasubio
Wednesday the Austrians gaine<
ground at the "Tooth of Pasubio,'
which the Italians captured on the pre
ceding day, but subsequently wen
driven out, according to Home. Vienns
reports her forces firmly held the position.
The fighting has been of handto-hand
character.
PAPER MONEY, CHARRED
BY FIRE, IS REDEEMED
Gas Pipe. Used as Bank. Preserves
Currency Sufficiently for Treasury"
Experts to Identify It.
A ,piece of 1 *4-inch gas pipe, capped
at both ends, about five inches in
length, was used as a bank by a Chicago
workinginan. There was a fire in
his home. The iron bank went through
the fire with the result that all its contents
were burned to a char. When the
b^nk was recovered from the ashes the
owner forwarded it to the redemption
division of the Treasury Department.
He asked $210 reimbursement, claiming
the pipe contained that much
money.
When the unique bank was opened
by the Treasury experts?who have determined
the value of a money note
torn in a thousand pieces and established
the denomination of the one-inch
ish of a piece of paper currency?they
tound a mass of paper, baked black.
The claimant, Paul Deitz. a Chicago
mechanic, said the bank had contained
ten twenty-dollar bills and one tenlollar
bill, making up the sum he
claimed. The experts found the value
correct, but an error in the denominaions
of the contents. There were nine
wenty-dollar bills, two ten-dollar bills
ind two live-dollar bills. Also the exjerts
determined the various issues.
The money has been refunded.
FOREIGN MINISTER TO QUIT.
Saron von Rajecz Expected to Step
Down in Austria-Hungary.
LONDON, October 20.?German newstapers
say the visit Baron Burian
on Rajecz. Austro-Hungarian foreign
ninister, to the German army lieadluarters
may be his last as foreign
ninister, according to a dispatch from
Amsterdam to the Exchange Telegraph
Company. The baron's resignation is
mpending, it is said, and his probable
iuccessor will be Baron von Macchio,
Lustro-Hungarian delegate at the sec>nd
Hague peace conference, or count
rzecsen von Temerin. who was the am>assador
of Austria-Hungary to France
it the outbreak of the war.
Up to the time when Italy eptered
he war Baron von Macchio was on a
pecial mission to Rome on behalf of
be Auatro - Hungarian foreign office.
i
VANDERLIP CITES
: RAILROADS' PLIGHT
Due to' Selfishness of Nearly
All Concerned, He Tells
Financial Officers.
U. S. CONTROL NO PANACEA
Frank A. Vanderlip. president of th*
National City Bank of New York, today
analyzed the question: "What is
the matter with the railroads?" in a
straigTit-from-the-shoulder address before
the convention of the Society of
Railway Financial Officers at the Raleigh
Hotel, placing the blame for the
plight of the railroads on "selfishness'
on the part of the public, the stockholder,
the wage-earner and the politician.
"The most selfish of all of these,*'
Mr. Vanderlip asserted, "is the politician
who trades his executive
ment for votes."
Mr. Vanderlip's address evidently developed
many surprises for the rail5
way financial officers, whose convention
today also was attended by many presidents
of Washington banks, under a
" special invitation, for Mr. Vanderlip
r made it plain that he does not agree
s with the recently announced program
f of the railway executives as representr
ing a "cure-all."
1
Plan Is Merely a Start.
e "Your committee of railroad execu?
tives," he said, "wants federal incorpora5
tion, complete federal control under a
regional system something like the region"
al bank system, and the abolishment of
state control. That is all right, but it
s is only a little start."
'' Mr. Vanderlip was introduced by T. H.
-J B. McKnight, president of the Railway
"i Financial Officers' Society, as "the man
J who - tands higher than any other man in
e the financial world today," and Mr. Vanderlip
said he was happy to speak to the
financial officers because they rep^sentan
interest capitalized at more than
, $16,000,000,000. "and the largest business
of any one kind in the world."
t "Rut what is the trouble with this
i business, the mainstay of American life
I and commerce?" he asked. "Last year
there was th<* smallest amount of railroad
construction in the history of the
t United States since the civil war. In
s 1915 there was only $12,000,000 put into
the business. So. if you have any idea
that notwithstanding the magnitude of
i What you are doing you are popular, get
, it out of your heads. As President Rip
ley of the Sante Fe once said to me, 'Let's
i throw away the figures and get uown to
i business.'
1
Freight Cars Scarce.
e "We heard something here the other
day, in Washington, about the possi
bility of enforced arbitration, and it
also was said that man cannot be 4subn
jected to involuntary servitude.' Well,
* you can't subject a free dollar to 'In- $
'* voluntary servitude/ either. Forty-two
? thousands.of miles of railroads are in
- the hands of receivers. We ought to
- be building 200,000 freight, cars a year,
i but last year we only built 74,000. A
- railroad executive told me the other
day that if he could get just one more
V freight car he could earn $000 a month
i with it, but lacking the ^car. he is
- losing that much freight money.
1 "This is a serious situation. You re1
cently have seen legislative increases
yr of wages, you have vseen receiverships.
1 You have heard a lot about la* methods
of finance in railroads, but they -
do not amount to 10 per cent of the
, total, and I would like to know if any
- set of politicians, city, state or nai
lional, would like to be judged as a
whole by the 10 per cent of their worst
performances.
"Many of us are coming to the time
j of life now when we have to go into a
} physician's office to have our blood
pressure tested. It is time to take the
blood pressure of the railroads in the
United States, and when it is taken. C
- predict that there will be found a har5
dening of the arteries. We nave put
upon the railroads such restrictions
that investors are no longer giving the
i roads the wherewithal in the way of
money for capital to meet the demands
of business, and. just as certain as a
" man with hardening of the arteries is
i in a dangerous condition, so certain is
l a country in a dangerous condition J
-{that has that complaint. If we ever
- get into a struggle we will go under
{ just as a man who has hardening of
the arteries goes under when he engages
in a struggle.
Railroads Failed Germans.
"I saw a letter a few days ago from
that Mr. Thornton who -was regarded
as one of our railroad geniuses in this
country and who was selected by the
British government to be one of a small
group of men w ho are now running all
the English railroads. This letter told
why the Germans did not reach Paris
when they were so near it two years
ago, after smashing through Belgium
and through a great part of France. It
was because of the railroads. The servi
ice broke down under pressure. They
couldn't stand the strain. Had those
railroads not broken down at that crit{
ical time they would have changed the
; ) history of the world, for if the Germans
| had got to Paris and held that capital,
things would have been different in the
conduct of the war since.
"This illustrates the importance to a
nation of preparedness for its railroads,
and the subject ought to be in
the constant thought of our statesmen
?if we have any?and constantly before
our people?if they think. For the
condition of the railroads is a matter
of the gravest national concern, af;
fecting every one, big and little, poor
and rich.
The trouble is not altogether with
the interstate commerce commission,
nor with the state railroad commissions,
nor with lack of sympathy on
the part of the public toward the railroads.
The idea that you are going to
be happy if you get rid of state control,
I do not believe in. Men have said
to me since I have been in this room
that we are tending inevitably toward
government Ownership. If we are we
are tending toward a national tragedy.
I don't know where we are going. We
are going somewhere, that's sure, because
railroad development cannot
stand still without a crash.
"You have got to look at this thing
as real statesmen would look at i%. You
must understand that the public is
selfish about wanting lower and lower
rates. You must understand that labor
is selfish in demanding and forcing
higher wages. You must understand
that the stockholder is selfish about getting
returns, and you must understand,
too. that the politician is selfish about
holding, getting and retaining place, but
the worst selfishness of all is that of
the politician who will trade his executive
judgment for votes."
Annual Banquet Is Held.
The annual banquet of the societytook
place last night in the Raleigh
Hotel, with George A. Post of New
York, president of the Railway Business
Association, as principal speaker.
Clarence F. Norment, Clarence P. King
and other Washlngtonians were preh 1
m. J
