Arizona State Fair and Exposition, November 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18, 1916
ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAH
12 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, FRIDAY MORNING, OCTOBER 20, 1916
12 PAGES
VOL. XXVII., NO. lot
THE
FRENCH GRADU ALL,
DRA WING THEIR FRONT
CLOSER TO PERONNE
North and East of Sailly
Saillcsel, Germans Have
Made Violent Counter
Attack Which Was Re
pulsed by the French
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
Gradually the French are drawing
their front closer to Peronne, in France.
After Wednesday's advance along a
mile front between Biaches and La
Maisonnette, west of the Somme, an i
attack launched Thursday was reward- j
ed with further gains, which virtually
brings them to the bank of the stream. '
North and east of Sailly-Saillesel, '
where the French have advanced their i
line in the last few days, the Germans
have made a violent counter attack,
which was repulsed by the French.
Berlin admits that in their attacks on
the Sars-Morval front the British can-
tured German positions, but says these J,
were later retaken. j U U
Except for a slight gain by the Brit- , . . .... -
ish at Butte-de-Warlencourt and the fl"m reachln attacking forces
repulse of a German counter attack, , throllh a curtain fire.
there comparative quiet prevailed. The Associated Press correspondent
No decisive result has been achieved watched the fight from beginning to
in the violent fighting that has been end front a hillock near Combles. The
going on for several days in Volhynia f'1"" from the British and French guns
and Galicia. Petrograd says that near had continued for a long time. The in
Kiselin and Sviniusky, in Volhynia, fantry officers had synchronized their
attacks by the Teutons were repulsed, I watches and were ordered to deliver
while Berlin records the caoture of I the attack exactly at 11:45 o'clock.
Russian trenches on the western bank
of the Stokhod and the repulse, with
heavy casualties, of Russian attacks
near Bubnow.
South of Zeborow in Galicia several
attacks have been carried out success
fully by the Austrian.
In Transylvania, Rumanians have
taken the offensive at various points
and now are declared to be pushing I
L. .1 I : . n ,
back their adversaries. Berlin, how
ever, controverts this statement.
There is no change in the situation
in Macedonia, although both the en
tente and Teutonic allies make claim
to minor successes on various sectors.
Artillery duels are taking place in the
Austro-ltalian theater.
The Cunard line steamer Alaunia, on
her way from New York to London, has J
been sunk by a mine between Falmouth
and London.
French Troops Progress
PARIS. Oct. 19. South of the
S'tmme. French troops have made prog
ress between Biaches and La .Maison
nette, near Peronne, says tonight's
communication. North of the Somme !
German attack north and east of
uiilly-Saillisel was repulsed.
Todays official announcement says:
North of the Somme our troops or
ganized during the night the village of .
t-ailly-Saillisel and consolidated the
conquered positions around this place.
S.,me Gorman counter attacks were
broken by our curtain of fire, and all
-ur gains were maintained.
".South 'if the Somme we made fresh
progress between La Maisonnette and
1 '.laches. Jn Lorraine, an enemy sur
prise attack on our trenches near
Purrs, northeast of Luneville, was re
pulsed easily.''
Serbs Capture Brod
LONDON. Oct. 19. After desperate
fighting the Serbians have captured
the village of prod. In Macedonia, the
heights to the north of that place and
the village of Veles-Selos. and are pur
suing the Rulgars northward, accord
ing to a Reuter dispatch from Saloniki.
In the remainder of that front there
Whs desultory fighting.
"Hy the capture of ISrod and Veles-S"-lo."
the dispatch adds, "the Serbians
have pureed the Bulgarian second line
ml now are, confronted by the third
anil final line on the western slopes of
.i..rxiiov range, which brings them
appreciably nearer Anastir."
WITH THE FRENCH ARMY NEAR
rn.MPRF.S. Via chantilly, Oct. 19.
From a Staff Correspondent of the
Associated press). Fifteen minutes of
infantry fighting proved sufficient for
the French army to capture the strong
p.sitio.i of Sailly-Saillisel from the
Germans and to give the entente al
lies command of five miles of the Pa
pa tme road.
The allies' air mastery deprived th:
Germans of their eyes; consequently
the German artillery rire was ineffec
tive, both in an endeavor to destroy
the opiiosing batteries and in an effort
to prevent reinforcements and supplies
IT 111 MARSHALL TALK
1 POLITICS n BALTIMORE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BALTIMORE, Oct. 19. Former
President Win. . Taft and Vice
President Thos. R. Marshall dlscuss--d
the issues of the presidential cam
paign here tonight at auditoriums
tiIv a few blocks apart.
Referring to the passage of the
icht-hour law, Mr. Taft declared
in.-it "The government's surrender to
f"r"? the greatest national humil
iation to which the neonle of this
count-y have ever been subjected."
1 "aid also that "the delay of the
ndminiHlration in bringing the sharp
issue with Germany (over the sink
ing of the Lusitunlai to a head has
-ximed this country to the charge of
weakness and vacillation." and "sub
jected the nation to additional humil
iation in the sinking of other ships
iind the drowning of other Americans."
Mr. Taft said that -the adminis
tration's course in actively intervening
to oust Herta throws upon us the
responsibility for tne onarchv that
has ensued." and brought about "a
strong possibility that we may have
to intervene in Mexico and tranqull
ir the country in the Interest of
civilisation."
Mr. Marshall said the greatest glory
of the Wilson administration was that
"P had made in America an atmos
phere wherein men may breathe the
pure ah- of equitv and fair dealing."
Th enactment of the eight-hour law,
he said, wis simply putting the opin
ion of the eople Into a statute.
which is Hie business of legislatures."
The vice president defended the
c
i
I SUFFRAGISTS DISCOVER
I ANOTHER WRINKLE
BOSTON". Oct. IS. A new ex- j
pedient aimed at obtaining the j
right of suffrage for womi?n is-
being tested in this state. Women j
I who have voted in states that :
have adopted suffrage, such as
I California, Colorado and Oregon, I
' have made formal demands in i
various cities in Massachusetts j
I where they are now resident, that
I they be regarded as legal voters.
j the claim is advanced tiiat haing i
I qualified as a legal voter in one
state, a woman who moves to
I another statu has the right to vot.?
! in the place of her new residence.
I In support of this claim, which is
I to be pressed in the courts in each
j instance by the International Suf
, fmge Assaciation. it is announced.
i I, ,
"n"
,hK " jre '
atlon'
that organization points to see
the federal constitution
llegcd to cover thu situ
ation. I
The moment arrived; the range of
the artillery which had been battering
Sailly-Saillisel, was increased a few
hundred yards; the infantrymen's
heads apeared over the parapets; then
In dashes, the men covered the short
open space, throwing grenades and
within a quarter of an hour, rockets
sent up showed the airmen observing
from the clouds that the position had
V. .... rru n i . 1 ..1.41.. .
been won. The airmen flew rapidly to
the field comandant's headquarters to
take back the news.
Meanwhile, hundreds of German
cannon opened a double curtain of fire,
trying to locate the routes leading to
ward Sailly. They shelled often wide
of their mark, except in Combles,
which sustained the heaviest kind of
fire for several hours. Then the Ger-
mans tried to silence the French and
British batteries but their practice
was so poor that the entente allied
gunners were able to continue their
work uninterruptedly.
The Germans had announced that
Sailly-Saillisel was impregnable in an
order to the troops and its rapid cap-
ture.
thereafter, came as somewhat of
a surprise to the aUieu commanders.
One Bavarian and two Prussian di
visions participated in the defense
showing the importance of the attack
on the position. Despite this, the
French advanced even further, occupy-
j ing also the shoulders of two hills to
j the northeast and northwest of the vli
. lane, giivng them virtual control of any
counter attack from the strongly or
ganized German position at Saiilisel.
I It is told that the Germans have
i made powerful positions at Le Trans-
ley and Sainte Pierre Vaast wood,
which inter-communicate hy means of
deep subterranean tunnels, afording
shelter to thousands of men and pro
viding for the rapid transfer in secur
ity from place to place. These tunnels.
it is aid have narrow railroads for the
transport of machine guns with ammu
nition to cleverly concealed exits, un
der which elevators bring the gun crews
and their supplies to the surface or
permit them to descend and make their
way to other points with the greatest
rapidity.
Germans Take Offensive
BERLIN, Oct. 19. German troops
took the offensive yesterday in Volhy-
nia ana capturea r.ussian trenches on
me west Dank or tno stokhod, it was
announced here today. Russian at
tacks near Bubnow were repulsed with
heavy losses.
Today's official announcement of the
Transylvania campaign says that at th
entrance to the mountain passes lead
ing to Rumania the Teutonic , force;
are engaged in successful fighting.
Desperate fighting occurred vester
day on the Somme front, the war office
announced in efforts to pierce the Ger
man line on the Le Sars-Morval front
The attacks were continued from
daybreak until noon and are said to
have failed partially under the German
fire. The German positions either
(Continued on Page Two)
administrations attitude toward the
European belligerents and its Mexl
can policy.
The destiny of America," said
Mr. Marshall "Is to be patient and
exnaust all peaceable means for ad
justment of difficulties, rather than
io rusn to war. we are the very
last noie or tne world, and all th
political expediencies in the country
mount not make the peoo e trad
peace for war.
Strikers in Bayonne, N. J.
Vote to
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BAYONNE. N. J., Oct. 19. Striking
employes of the Standard Oil and
several other companies operating
Plants here, at a mass meeting to
night, voted to return to work to
morrow. Karlior In the dav John J.
Moffitt and James A. Smyth. U. S.
mediators, had assured a committee
representing the men that the com
panies had expressed a willingness to
negotiate demands for increased wages
and better working conditions If the
workers would return."
Th strike, which began ten days
ago and was marked by rioting in
is Make
Escape Riding
In Prison Auto
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
OSS1NING. X. Y., Oct. 19. Riding
In a. prison automobile truck, six in
mates of Sing Sing drove past a guard
and made their escape about noon to
day, Acting Warden Calvin Derrick
announced tonight. The finding of the
abandoned truck a half hour after the
escape gave the first intimation that
the men, all of whom were serving sen
tences of from fifteen years to life, had
fled.
Acting Warden Derrick, who took
charge of the prison only this week,
upon the resignation of Thomas Mott
Osborne, said that Richard Hyler, the
guard at the prison gate through
which the truck passed, had been sus
pended pending an investigation.
The truck, which was supposed to
be used exclusively inside the prison
walls, was driven by a convict who
wore the uniform of a guard. Another
man, in the regulation prison garb, sat
beside him. while the four others were
hidden within the truck. The guard.
Warden Derrick said, did not stop the
truck nor look to see what it carried.
One Is Caught
TAP.RYTOWN, N. Y., Oct. 19. Mar
quis Curtis, one of the six inmates of
Sing Sing prison who escaped today in
prison automobile truck, was shot
and wounded tonight when guards
from Sing Sing who were searching for
the six escaped prisoners came upon
him on the railroad tracks near the
country estate of John D. Rockefeller
at Pocontico Hills, near here. Curtis
had been commanded by the guards
to throw up his hands but apparently
was reaching for a revolver when he
was shot. In his possession was found
a revolver fully loaded.
Curtis, who was serving a life term.
was in civilian clothes when caught.
o
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON, Oct. 19. Lloyd's an
nounces that the British steamer
Alaunia has been sunk and that
her captain and 163 men of the
crew have been landed. With the
exception of a few men missing
the ship's come-any were landed by
a trawler. Aii He passengers had
been landed previously.
Sailed October 7
NEW YORK. Oct. 19. The Cunard
liner Alaunia.'Hfhieh hailed from this
port October 7, was sunk by a mine
in the English channel today, accord
ing to cable advices to the local Cunard
officials while proceeding to London
from Falmouth. On Tuesday the of
ficials said she landed at Falmouth all
of her 243 passengers including 21
Americans who sailed on her from
New York.
The Alaunia, one of the newest ves
sels of the Cunard line, sailed from
New York on the day the German
.submarine l'-53 arrived at Newport
and must have passed Nantucket at
about the same time the U-53 the
next morning began her operations in
that vicinity against British shipping.
Incidentally the Cunarder was armed
for defense against submarines.
The Alaunia carried a cargo of about
11.000 tons of merchandise, including
war supplies, but no munitions. Among
the items listed were rubber and cop
per goods, food supplies and chemicals.
The main part of her cargo was to be
discharged at London.
Built in 1913. the ship was 520 feet
long with a gross tonnage if 13,405.
, Only Narrow Channel
WASHINGTON. Oct. 19. Charts
compiled by the navy hydrographic
office from announcements of the
British admiralty showing the latest
mined areas, reveal a number of ex
tensive fields where mines have been
sown, leaving only a narrow channel,
the course iof which Is known only to
admiralty officers from Falmouth to
London. Warnings of these areas are
believed to have been given to mariners
advising them to obtain special In
structions from admiralty service to
insure safe navigation.
With these precautions to safeguard
shipping, navy officials here find it
difficult to understand how the Alau
nia couia nave neen sunk except by a
mine which had broken from anchor
age or one dropped by an enemy mine
layer.
.. o
RECEIVE MUCH LIVESTOCK
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DENVER, Oct. 19. Receipts at the
Denver union stockyards to date this
year have far exceeded receipts for the
whole of last year, figures made public
today disclose. Sheep receipts this
year total 810.SI4, against 768,421 for
all of last year; hogs 367,618, against
341, HOI last year Cattle 413.573 aeainst
last year.
Return to Work
which three persons were killed ano
many other wounded, affected plants
of several oil companies. While only
about 3,500 of the men actually went
on strike, it was said approximately
8,500 others were thrown oiit of
work.
The strikers demand a thirty per
cent Increase In wtiges for all those
receiving under ii a day, and 20 per
cent increase for those receiving more
than $3 a day. together with better
working conditions. The companies
refused to deal with the men while
they were on strike, holding they
could not negotiate with workers who
were not in their employ.
A! Lin
IS A 11 OF
CHANNEL MINE
ALL ARIZONA TO GREET COL ROOSEVELT
Hughes Means What He Says
TIES ISSUE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
YoUNGSTOWN. O. Oct. 19 Charles
K. Hughes, reiterating that he meant
what he said in Louisville the other
night about the course he would have
ollowed with reference to the Lusila
nia, tonight replied to a recent utter
ance of Secretary McAdoo, with the
declaration that apparently it seemed
Impossible to the administration tiiat
one could mean what he said.
"Now rises the secretary of the
tretsury to complain that this waji
not a ttatement of what I would have
done had the sinking occurred,' Mr.
Hughes said, ;ifter reiterating that he
would have stated his position, "un
equivocally" in advance of the sinking.
"1 was under the impression that
when I said what I would have stated
in advance as to what I would do,
everyone would know that I stated
what in fact I would have done in
the described event. The secretary's
remarks shows m an illuminating way
this administration's conception of the
value of words.
'It apparently seems impossible to
the administration that one can mean
what he savs. That is its difficulty.
With it, a thought of action does not
seem to mean anything but words.
My position is somewhat different.
"I mean what I say and because
this would have been well known and
we should already had a reputation
for firm and correct policies. I repeat
that the I.usitania would not have
been sunk."
Mr. Hughes spoke before an audi
ence in the theater here. He aln
replied to a statement attributed to
Secretary of War Paker in a recent
nddress In which Washington's sol
diers in the march to Valley Forge in
the days of the American revolution
were said to be Just as bad characters
as the Mexicans.
"I never supposed tJe day Aou'd
corne." Mr. Hughes said, "when the
represen' alive of an A merit an ad
ministration would say that of those
v. ho gave us our libert,.'
"An administration imbued with the
snirit of true Amrecianism," Mr.
Hughes said, "wodld be incapable of
the statement attributed to the sec
retary of war. It should bring th"
1'1'ish of shame to the cheek of every
American that apoligies fur tne dc-
I lorahlc record in Mexico should oe
mcde eftor this fashion."
Mr. Hushes' speech here tonight
was the lat of his third presidential
'.-imntiign trip. He left here at 11 p.
m. for New york where ne is oue
tomorrow afternoon. The "m- was
sn-'iit trnvelinsr, with short addresses
at Bay City. Saginaw and Flint. Mich.
It. was rrinlng and the damp weather
affected the nominee's voee.
!n his speech here tonight Mr.
Finches said:
'The president of the T'nit'-d States
the trustee of executive .power.
Placed In control of our agencies of
internntiotiMl intercourse he is the
guardian of the rights of the Anieri-
an citizens. He has no authority to
surrender them, no right t impair
them. I'pnn his firmness in main
taining that depends our security and
our peace. The demo"ratic platform
four years ago promised that the con-1
stltiitionnl rights of Americans shoul 1
nrotoct them fin our borders and 4n
with them throughout the world.
When it promised full protection for
American lhes and nroperty abroad.
it succeeded in established American
principle.
"Ore of Americas greatest jurists,
sneaking for the supreme court of th -I'nited
States many years ago another
orivilege of a citizen of th Vnited
Strifes Is to demand the care and pro
tection of 'he federal government over
his life liberty and property when on
the high seas or within the Juris
diction of a foreign government.
"Now we are told that the admin
istration has turned his back on the
American doctrine of full protectton.
"It Is a reversal without authority
and in violation of the specific pledge
upon which it was elected, instead of
following Its clear line of duty, it n
caeed ip a personal, vindicative war.
leaving the lives and property of our
citizens to be destroyed.
"This deplorable course lowered on
international prestige. When the ad
ministration did speak for American
(Continued on Page Two)
Six Entombed
Others Missing
In Coal Mine
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
FAIRMONT. AW Va.. Oct. 19. Six
men are known to have been en
tombed and nine others are missing
as a result of an explosion of coal
dust in mine No. 7 of the Jamison
Coal and Coke Company, at Barracks
ville. near here, today. The interior
of the mine ns well as the tipple and
other buildings were wrecked by the
blast, and although 200 men are work
ing despesately tonight to clear awav
the debris, officials of the company
believe it will be noon tomorrow be
fore the rescuers can enter the work
ings. The work of removing the wreck
age Is being superintended by R. H.
Jamison, of Pittsburg, general man
ager of the company, who happened
to be In hairmont today. A rescue
Mill ON
RECENT SPEECH
I
car from the Pittsburg station or the a speecn, out was nooted down by tne
bureau of mines arrived tonight. I crowd. J. Frank Hanly had just fin
Ahout 250 men ire ordinarily em-'ished speaking and had given way to
ployed in the mines but they were Ira Iindrith when the wet advocate
not working today. . ' interrupted.
COLONEL ROOSEVELT
INMIDDLE WEST
(By Republican Associated Press Leased Wire)
KANSAS CITY, Oct. 19. Storms of snow and sleet tonight greeted the
special carrying Theodore Roosevelt as he entered the west to advocate the
election of Charles E. Hughes for president.
The only rear platform speech of the trip today was made at Jefferson
City, Mo., where Mr. Roosevelt spoke for five' minutes. He called attention
to the Lusitania incident, and declared "the crime was the result of foreign
ers being of the opinion that Americans did not mean what they said.
"And they were right," he continued.
Several men formerly allied with Mr. Roosevelt in the progressive party
met the special here. William A. White rode with Mr. Roosevelt as far as
Emporia, Kas., his home. I. R. Kirk wood, former progressive national com
mitteeman for Missouri, accompanied Mr. Roosevelt nere from St. Louis
Colonel Roosevelt promised to make a short stay in Emporia en route from
here to the southwest to speak in Albuquerque, N. M., and Phoenix, Ariz.
Speaks at Emperia
EMPORIA, Kas., Oct. 19. Theodore Roosevelt, speaking in a driving
snowstorm here tonight, adjured a large Kansas audience not to forget the
sacrifice for America made by Captain Boyd and Lieutenant Adair who were
killed by Mexicans at Carrizal. He declared that five years ago he would
not have believed that red-blooded Americans would sit still when soldiers,
acting under orders from the president of the United States were killed.
"I am pleading with you for an America that you and I can be proud of,"
he declared. "For an America of the f uture that will not be a hiss and a
by-word among the nationc of the earth.
"If Abraham Lincoln had kept us out of war there would have been no
free state of Kansas," Colonel Roosevelt asserted. "If our forefathers had
believed in 'safety first' there would be no United States today. The phrase
is nauseating to a patriot acquainted with the history of our country."
Mr. Roosevelt was introduced by Wm. Allen White. Tonight he con
tinued his journey into the southwest.
AMERICA ILL
PLAY BIG PART
mm
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO. Oct. 19. President Wil
on, speaking to a new citizens' meet
ing tonight, declared that foreign
orn citizens of the I'nited Slates
fhould put their American allegiance
above all others. He praised the
Ideals that bring new citizens to the
I'nited States and outlined his be
lief that in the determination of the
future of the world after the pres
ent war America will play an import
ant part.
During a strenuous 12-hours in
Chicago the president addressed a
collection of women as "fellow citi
zens." upheld the principle of the
eight-hour day and uiged that pro
gressives of all parlies work lor a
broader America.
A demonstration lasting more than
fie minutes greeted the president at
a new citizens meeting tonight. Men
stood on chair.') and cheered, waving
their hats. The president flood and
bowed again and again. The ap
plause ended when a clergymen be
gan an Invocation.
The preliminary speakers were con
stantly interrupted by fchouts of
"Wils.in! Wilson!" When the presi
dent rose the crowd, led by Governor
Dunne, stood and cneered uproar
iously. "I come here tonight to ad
dress those who have newly sworn
allegiance to the United States," said
tne president. "But I realize that I
cannot do it without seaking to my
own conscience and to the conscience
of the other people of the nation."
He pointed out that the new citizens
had chosen their new allegiance.
"Within the last few months," he
added, "some distinctions have been
drawn. A man or a woman who be
comes a citizen of the United States
is not expected to give up his or her
love :or the country of their birth.
'Put people who come to this coun
try are expected to put their new
allegiance above every other alleg
iance. It puts an obligation on him.
The future of this nation de
pends upon the self control and loyal
ty of its citizens. Only by conscience
3ud hy loyalty felt in every throb of
the heart can you become true citi
zens 'A free self-governing wople does
not need to be watched." The presi
dents address was frequently in
terrupted bv applause.
bay it again.' people m the crowd
shouted often as he sppke of the need
for loyalty.
' It is necessary that new citizens
who come to this country should not
live by themselves That is importing
the old country here.
"The strength of a nation does not
rest so much in its thinking as in its
feejing. outside the heart there is no
lite. You murt see to It that you do
not hold aloof.
"You must remember that the
Fulled States has a great part to
plav in the world. Can you imagine
a. nation more fitted to play a great
part'.' A nation made up out of the
world should understand the world.''
(Continued on Page Two)
Rain Greets Dry Party in
Journey Across Ohio State
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CLEVELAND, O., Oct. 19. Rain and
wet advocates stood out in the dry
special train tour today across Ohio
from Union City, Ind., to Cleveland. A
drizzle fell throughout the day, reduc
ing the crowds that listened to rear
platform speeches of the prohibition
national candidates to small numbers,
and In two cities, Galion and Shelby,
loquacious wets interrupted the meet
ings with protests against the speak
ers' statements.
One of the wets took the speakers'
stand at Sbelby and attempted to make
Bf u CO
AFTER VILLA
AND SALAZAR
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHIHUAHUA CITY, Oct. 19. All
details have been completed for the
new campaign against the commands
of Francisco Villa and Jose Ynez
Salazar in Western Chihuahua.
This column, under General Carlos
Ozuna. is ready to entrain at the Mex
ico Northwestern station for Santa
Ysabel, which is the field base for the
operations by the Carranza forces
against Villa's commands. There are
ftiiO well equipped men at Santa Ysa
bel which will join General Ozuna's
force upon its arrival there and pro
ceed west toward San Antonio and
Guerrero.
Martial law is heing rigidly enforced
here and many arrests are being made.
The return from El Paso of Mrs.
Trevino, wife of General Trevino, has
increased public confidence in the
ability of the garrison here to with
stand any attacks from Villa forces.
Yaquis Would Surrender
DOUGLAS. Oct. 19. One thousand
Yaqui Indians have sent a message to
General P. Elias Calles. military com
mander of Sonora. offering to surren
der if granted amnesty and incor-
(Continued on Page Two)
SOLDIERS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DOUGLAS, Oct. 19. Six members
of the Fifth New Jersey infantry and
two regulars from the Sixth field ar
tillery, waived preliminary hearing to.
day and were hound over to await
action of the superior court' in Tomb
stone, on the charge of stealing two
automobiles. The men gave their
names as Kermeith McGregory, Robt.
Huischberg, Wiili im J. Maxwell, Will
iam Laohmiind, Anthony J. Bonerlin,
James E. Moore, Albert Swift and
Thomas X. Lee.
1 N N6 IN SAKS VILLA IS IN
PERSONAL1 COMMAND OF BANDITS
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
EI, PASO. Oct. 19. Wounded
through the mouoh and in the left leg
by Villa's bandits. Tomas Mcndez. a
mining man employed by one of th
companies in the Cusi district,
reached here today to receive medical
treatment for his wounds. V
Mendez was in Cusihuiriachic when
"You can't make this country dry.
and I can prove it." he shouted. "I'll
come right up there and do it now if
you want me to."
Landrith invited the man to the
platform, and the invitation was ac
cepted. Before he had time to speak,
however, the crowd insisted that it did
not come to hear him, and he retired.
At Gallon, a man interrupted Oliver
W. Stewart, the special train manager,
but when Stewart asked him to repeat
his. remarks, he retired.
Hanly confined himself today to
arguing that the liquor traffic was
challenging the sovereignty of the
American people, and that it formed
fjangerous "invisible government."
Landrith pleaded for moral people to
exercise the ballot more freely.
FROM ALL1 OVER
STATE 1EN
There will be such a concourse of
people of the state in Phoenix tomor
row to welcome Colonel Roosevelt as
was never before gathered in an Ari
zona town. The? whole state will be
represented as is shown by the fol
lowing telegrams from every part of
the state, received yesterday by Chair
man Maddock of the republican state
central committee. From some of the
towns several telegrams were received
uui uiii.v one irom eacn is nere se
lected: These telegrams are from per
sons who had been notified of their
appointment as members of the re
ception committee:
Tucson, Ariz., Oct. 19, 1916.
Thos. H. Maddock, Chairman,
Phoenix, Ariz.
Referring to yours of the seven
teenth, shall take pleasure in accept
ing. M. P. FREEMAN
AVillcox, Ariz., Oct. 19. 1910.
Thos. Maddox,
Chairman Rep. State Central Com.,
I'hoenix, Ariz.
Replying to yours, I will be there;
please reserve seat.
H. A. MORGAN.
Yuma, Ariz., Oct. 19, 1916.
Thos. H. Maddock,
Chairman Rep. State Central Com.,
Phoenix. Ariz.
Will be there Saturday, accompan
ied by mv wife.
J. A. KETCHERSIDE
P.isbee, Ariz.. Oct. 19, 191G.
Thos. H. Maddock.
Chairman Rep. State Central Com.,
Phoenix. Ariz.
Your letter received. Will be pleased
to be in Phoenix Saturda" morning.
W. H. BROPHY
Kingman. Ariz., Oct. 19, 1915.
Thos. H. Maddock,
Chairman Rep. State Central Com.,
Phoenix. Ariz.
Will gladly go that far to hear Ted
dy once more.
GEO. A. SHEA
Casa Grande, Ariz., Oct. 19, 1916.
Phoenix. Ariz.
Thos. H. Jinddock.
Chairman Rep. State Central Com..
Accept' appointment on Roosevelt re
ception committee.
T. R. PEART
Prescott, Ariz., Oct. 19. 1916.
Thos. H. Maddock,
Chairman Rep. State Central Com.,
I'hoenix. Ariz.
Will be in Phoenix for Roosevelt
meeting.
E. S. CI. ARK
Douglas, Ariz.. Oct. 19, 1916.
Thos. H. Maddock.
Chairman Rep. State Central Com..
Phoenix. Ariz.
Thanks for letter. Please reserve
seats far Mrs. Ellis and mvself.
C. O. ELLIS
Flagstaff, Ariz., Oct. 19, 1316.
Thos. H. Maddock.
Chairman Rep. State Central Com.
Phoenix. Ariz.
Save my seat.
FRET) W. SMITH
Nearly everything has been done
that can be done in the way of prep
aration for this big event. Franklin
D Lane, in charge of the seating ar
rangements with an effective corps of
(Continued on Page Three)
TARE AUTOS
McGregory was arrested on the
state highway between Douglas and
Bisbee, after taking a motor delivery
truck belonging to a local merchant,
the officers charge. The other seven
are charged with the larceny of a
seven-passenger car from in front of
a theater Tuesday night. They were
arrested in Bisbee.
While the men have mad no state
ment for publication, their friends say
they took the cars for a joy ride, in
tending to return them.
Villa and Salazar entered there with
R00 men on September 26. He was
called from his homei and 'taken be
fore Villa himself for examination.
After being told that he could go,
Villa warned him that if he ever
worked for any American company, he
would be executed. Mendez said upon
his arrival here.
After returning to his home afteu
the interview with Villa, and retiring,
Mendez says he W'as awakened bv the
screams of his wife and discovered
that Martin Lopez, a brother of Pablo
Lopez, and a band of Villa's men were
looting his home. He started to run
from his bedroom when a bandit shot
him. he said, the bullet striking him
in the left leg and breaking the largo
bone. As he lay on the floor of his;
rooinlxipez, whose brother was exe
cuted for his part in the Santa Ysabel
massacre of eighteen Americans anil
other foreigners, drew his revolver
and fired at Mendez's head, the latter
said. As he fired. Mender aid hi
turned his head and the bullet tore,
through his lips and lodged In the
back of his neck.,
He said Villa looked unusually well
when at Cusi. and had shaved off th
beard which he was reported to have,
worn at the attack on Chihuahua City
on September 16.
Word was received at the Mexican
headquarters in Juarez todav that tho.
Villa band which had occupied Made
ra, a railwny town about a hundred
miles below the main American base
at Casas Orandes. had' retired south
ward into the mountains.
II
