t
I
Today's Metal Prices fit A tl iYil 'SLf X"'Y I 4 R E CITY ED I
NEW YORK QUOTATIONS.
Ill rll F I I I V 1 1 S M 2 I D I M B 1 1 TWELVE PAGES
lead ?7.007.10; spelter,' $To.OO; p- dT k S .ndtuayr nWJnlgTlTSJd
I per' 27.2528.00. tffe In Northern Portion Saturday. .
" . FEARLilou, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. . ' 1
j Fortysixlh Year-No. 262. Price Five Centa. OGDEN CITY, UTAH, FRIDAY EVENING, OCTOBER 20, 1916. Entered as Second-Class Matter at the Postofflco, Oflden, Utah IH
Put Bulgarians to Mcraf
! i .
Serbian troops on the western end
of the Macedonian front are reported
successfully continuing their vigorous
campaign for Monastir.
Through Paris today comes official
announcement of the capture of the
; village of Velyeselo within the bond
' of the Corna river southeast of Mon-
astir. The Bulgarians are said to have
'. suffered heavy losses, including 100
men prisoners and three cannon and
to have been put to rouL
The situation in Greece remains ex
: trcmely confused. News despatches
; from Athens, long delayed in transmls
' sion and recording the development
l of the situation there only up to Wed
I ' nesday night, report turbulent condl
; tions in tho Greek capital. Greek
1 : reservists there are said to have taken
I the laws into their own hands, de
; spite the presence of strong contin
gents of entente marines, with the
' Greek authorities doing virtually noth
'. ing to control them.
King Constantino is reported to
have told the British minister at
Athens, that the allies, having de
prived him of all power and recog
' nized the provisional government of
: Saloniki, had better address future
proposals regarding the course of
Greece to the Venizelos revolutionary
government.
f! Rumanians Driven Back.
Bucharest, Oct. 20. Via London,
4 40 p. m. The Rumanians have tak
en the offensive in the Oitze valley
' through which the Austro-German
armies invaded Rumania, the war of
fice announced today. They have
r driven back tho invaders to tho fron
tier. The repulso of attacks on other
parts of the front also is reported.
i Situation In Egypt.
r London, Oct. 20, 2:50 p. m. An of
ficial report today on British military
a operations in Egypt says:
"Forty-five SenoUoi prisoners were
i captured on the 17tb by ono of our
patriots in the Dakhla oasis after a
brisk encounter."
Quiet in Somme Section.
' Paris, Oct. 20. There was no in
fantry action last night on the French
front in the Somme region, says the
'i official statement issued this after-
; noon by the French war department.
In Lorraine, German surprise attacks
against French posts in the region of
i Bezanges were repulsed.
Capture of Brod.
Saloniki, Greece, Oct. 20, via Lon
' don, 2:30 p. m. The capture of Brod
:. and Velyeselo is reported by Serbian
army headquarters as follows:
"On October 19 wo continued our
attacks on Sokul mountain. Tho army
of General MIschitch met with an Inv
V portant success. It defeated tho 44th,
! and 28th Bulgarian regiments, occu:j
pled the villages of Brod and Velye-;
; Belo, two miles north of Brod, and
captured four machine guns, three
guns and eighty prisoners."
' ! Fierce Fight in Progress.
Berlin, Oct, 20, by wireless to Say
! ville. The battle between Austro
German forces and Rumanians on tho
frontier ridges of Transylvania 13 pro
; gressing, says today's official Ger
i man statement, while In the Ruman
ian province bordering tho Black sea
' the fighting between the Russo-Ru-manian
armies and tho forces of tho
Central Powers became" more lively
' ' The text reads:
' j "Transylvania: On tho frontier
1 1! ridges the fighting progresses. Army
I group of Field Marshal von Macken
aen: The fighting activity on the
;r Dobrudja front became lievlier."
Germans Retake Trenches.
Berlin, Oct. 20, by wireless to Say
vllle. The greater part of the trench
es on tho road between Eaucourt
.'. .L'Abbayo and Le Barque, which were
X captured by the British on October 18.
were retaken yesterday by German
troops In a counter attack, according
b.f to the official statement issued today
Sat the German army headquarters.
Attempts made by British detach
ments to advance laBt night north of
n Courcelette and east of Lo Sars, the
'f statement adds, failed.
I In the last greatest attack on the
1 German positions in the Somme re
f glon, the British used several tanks
and three of them were destroyed by
the German artillery fire, the stato
1 Went declares.
Tho German statement regarding
i tho Somme front says:
il "During tho rainy weather the mu
$ tual artillery duel on both sides of
Jj the Somme continued lively,
j "Tho largest part of the trenches
i "tvest of the road between Eaucourt
L'Abbaye and Lo Barque, taken by
the English on October 18, was cap-
tured by an attack. In the evening
i hours advances of English detach
! ments north of Courcelette and east
; of Le Sars failed.
"As only now reported, tho English
3 during the last great attack used
it Bomo of their much trumpeted ar-
mored automobiles or so-called tanks.
'f Three of them are lying before our
I lines having been destroyed by our
$ artillery."
i Germany's Legion Collapses.
f5 London, Oct. 20. 1 p. m. A dispatch
from Berne, Switzerland to the Wlre
t; leas Press, says:
1 "Germany's Polish Legion has col
fej lapsed. After long efforts and coer
Bj clve pressure, Germany and Austria-
1
Hungary succeeded in enrolling 18,
000 Poles. They were divided into
six brigades.
"Four brigades mutinied at the be
ginning of October and they were
disarmed and imprisoned in tho
Brest-Litovsk barracks. The rem
nants of the legion are sent to tho in
terior of Austria, the troops being
considered unreliable."
Redoubts Heavily Shelled.
London, Oct 20, 1:25 p. m. The
following account of operations on the
French front was given out hero to
day: "Last evening Stuff and Schwaben
redoubts wero heavily Bhelled by the
enemy.
"During the night two small raids
wero carried out against tho enemy's
trenches in the neighborhood of
Loos."
Serbians Capture Plateau.
Paris, Oct 20. Tho war office an
nounced today that the Serbians have
captured the plateau and village of
Velyeslo on the western end of the
Macedonian front, putting the Bulgar
ians to rout.
The statement says heavy losses
were inflicted on the Bulgarians. The
Serbians captured 100 Bulgarians and
throe cannon.
Velyeselo is two miles north of
Brod, a town on the Cema river, the
capture of which was announced yes
terday by the French Avar office.
Sofia, Oct. 19, via London. Oct. 20.
Heavy fighting in the Cerna bend is
reported in an official statement is
sued by tho war office today.
Serbs Are Halted.
Berlin, OcL 20, by wireless to Say
ville. The forward movement of tho
Serbian forces In the bend of the riv
er Cerna, in southern Serbia, has been
halted by the troops of tho central
powers after a temporary Serbian suc
cess, says .tho German official state
ment issued today.
Bulgars Take Offensive.
Bucharest, Oct 20, via London, 4:50
p. m. The Bulgarian and German
forces in Dobrudja have taken the of
fensive along tho whole front. They
have forced back the Rumanian left
wing, the war office announced today.
SWEDISH CREW LANDED.
'Copenhagen, Oct. 20, via London,
12:40 p. m. The crew of the Swedish
steamer Normandie landed today at
Frederikshaven, the most northerly
seaport of Denmark. Their vessel
was torpedoed and sunk by a German
submarine.
The Normandie was of 1342 tons
gross. She was 232 feet long, 35 feet
beam ,and built in 1905.
oo
WAR DESOLATION
' SEEN JNFRANCE
No Plague More Ruthless Than
Terrible Engines of
Destruction.
DISTRESSING SCENES
British and French Domination
Absolute in Air and Ar
tillery Fighting.
Ottawa, Ontario, Oct. 20. Tho ter
rific destruction wrought on tho bat
tlefields of France is described in an
official communique, taken from a
Canadian officer's reports which has
been made public by Sir Sam Hughes,
minister of militia. Incidentally the
communique reiterates the claims of
the British leaders in regard to tho
superiority of tho allies in tho air and
artillery. In the latter respect the
Canadian officer says that the allies
are firing five shells to the Germans'
one.
Describing tho desolation caused by
the tremendous struggle, the com
munique says:
"Never has tho human agency con
trolled such engines of destruction,
nor has war ever so profoundly Im
pressed itself upon the face of nature.
No plague could be more ruthless, no
natural more devastating."
After describing tho peaceful
scenes in the rear of the battle lino,
the perfectly tilled fields, tho farms
cultivated to tho lsat inch of their
available space and after paying a
tribute to tho "brave, silent industry
of the women, tho old men and tho
children," of France, the communique
continues:
Scenes of War Distressing.
"The transition from this scene of
beauty, peace and ancient prosperity
is infinitely distressing. Fields aro
given over to the trammeled rows of
tethered horses and aro disfigured by
a variety of encampments from or
dered white tents to huts of rusted
biscuit tins and low discolored shackB
of nondescript material This area
of active occupation gradually thins
and abuts a region of more sinister
appearance. Here trees havo broken
bodies and the houses seem pained
for their roofs are rent, their windows
gone, their walls are scarred and
pierced. But the full view of the land
of war is reached with the crossing
of the black, greasy slopes east of
Albert with their chalky scars cut by
by the long lines of trenches.
"The view suddenly sweeps into tho
valley. Bcforo La Boisselle there were
the original German and British lines
on July 1st This was the outer wall,
the stoutly resisting shell of the de
fense through which the indomnitable
English had fought their way and so
permitted those who followed, other
English, Australian, South African and
Canadians, to come and deal their
blows.
"Of La Boisselle there is more upon
the map than on the ground. A few
shattered trunks, hero and there a
splintered beam, perhaps a corner
stone or two, some cellars roofed
with wreckage. Otherwise only the
upheaval of tortured earth, mino
craters, heaps of rotting white sands,
choked trenches and a dreary little
old pile of wire, cans and human
rubbish remain.
Twin City of Desolation.
"On the left is the twin city of
desolation. Ovlllers, and between the
two the white road runs beyond and
mounts to the level of Pozieres. Po
zieres shares tho fate of La Boisselle.
No hand could trace the outlines of
a single house or garden plot There
are no bricks or beams which could
be used in restoration. As a village,
Pozieres has disappeared.
"Just beyond Pozieres and still be
low the summit runs the . line of
trenches first occupied by the Cana
dians. These are in tho midst of the
ground which has most suffered. Hero
is the acme of destruction. No grain
of surface remains undisturbed.
There is no room for a fresh shell
hole. Nowhere is the power of mod
ern of modern artillery or the thor
oughness of preparation better typi
fied. We havo literally blasted our
way forward. Ruin appears not only
in the devastated earth and tho
crushed houses, but also in the sadder
waste of human life. ThaUisinlLi
ground sacred to the memory of our
dead. Also, in the scarcely defined
trenches of the enemy, the German
corpses lie thickly."
Dominating the Air.
In regard to the situation in the
air, the communique says:
"In this respect the British and
French domination is almost absolute.
Here all day long we watch our planes
circling above our heads. Closely they
come and go with the speed and alert
ness of birds; far off they seem to
hang suspended in the sky. Occasion
ally a flight of five or more planes,
intent upon some special mission, go
over high up and disappear into the
distant mist. So rarely do the Ger
man machines that some men who
have been here daily for a month have
not seen a single one."
oo
GERMANS DEFEAT
Storm Positions in Galicia,
Take 2050 Men and Eleven
Machine Guns.
Berlin, Oct. 20. By wireless to Say
ville. German tropps yesterday
stormed Important Russian positions
with adjoining lines on the west bank
of the river Narayukn, In Galicia, and
repulsed sanguinarily counter attacks
"DUKE OF BRUNSWICK, SON-IN-LAW OF
KAISER, WAR'S MOST PATHETIC FIGURE
psll ffe jtx Mi
V 1
The Duke of Brunswick and his duchesa
The Duke of Brunswick, the kaiser's son-in-law, one of the most bril
liant leaders in the early days of the war, has not been mentioned in war
dispatches for some while. While on the eastern front the forces he com
manded were lost in a treacherous marsh and the incident unseated the
duke's reason. Ho has lost his mind and requires constant attendance.
says tho German official statemenl
issued today. The Germans captured
fourteen officers and '2,050 men and
took eleven machine guns.
The statement reporting operations
in Russia and Galicia says:
"Several Russian counter attacks
broke down with heavy losses in front
of the positions which we had gained
north of Sviniusky on the Stokhodj
ji'iver. . I
"Southwest of Svistelniki, on the
west bank of tho Narayuvka, German
battalions stormed an important posl-'
tlon on the heights and sanguinarily
repulsed attacks made to re-conqucr
the lost ground. Tho enemy left four
teen officers, 2,050 men and eleven
machine guns in our hands.
"In the southern part of the Car
pathian forest which is covered with
snow the enemy was thrown from tho
summit of Mount Rusului."
GREEKS TAKE LAW
II OWN HANDS
Officers and Men of Athens'
Garrison Go Over to Na
tional Movement.
London, Oct 20, 11:05 a. m. Ex
tremely turbulent couditions in Ath
ens on Wednesday night aro reported
in a dispatch from Router's corre
spondent at the Greek capital, sent
that evening. Greek reservists have
taken the law in their own hands de
spite the presence of strong entente
detachments of marines, who are given
virtually no assistance by the Greek
authorities in maintaining order, tho
dispatch declares.
"Tonight." tho message reads, "it
is evident that tho reservists aro out
of hand, for despite the fact that
Lstrong cavalry forces are esporting
the French and Greek soldiers spread
about everywhere, the reservists as
sembled in groups are taking the law
into their own hands and the Greek
forces, for the maintenance of order,
do not dispose of them.
French Censor News.
"Tho chief officer of the French
police control, has informed the edi
tors of tho anti-Venizo press that be
ginning tomorrow tho French will ex
ercise a newspaper censorship and
that newspapers printing anti-entente
articles run tho risk of suspension."
The foregoing while bringing the
developments in Athens only up to
Wednesday night, is the latest report
to be received on the situation there.
Twenty-five officers and COO men
of the Athens garrison havo gone over
to the national movement and left for
Saloniki, according to an Exchange
Telegraph dispatch from Athens.
Newspapers announco that Janina,
in Greek Epirus, also has gone over
to the revolutionists, but official con
firmation of this is lacking.
London, Oct 19, 11:51 p. m. A
Reuter dispatch from Petrograd says
that the budget of 1917, submitted to
the duma and council of the empire,
has been framed in view of the prob
ability of tho war lasting for the
whole financial year.
Revenue and expenditure balance
at a total of 4,07S,000,000 rubles, this
being tho first time the Russian bud
get has reached four billion. Tho ex
cess expenditure over the real rev
enue, amountingt o 73,000,000 rubles
will be covered by credit operations.
Tho receipts from the sale of intoxi
cating liquors, which in 1913 were ap
proximately 100,000,000 rubles, now
aro estimated at only 50,000,000
rubles. An explanatory memorandum
attached to the budget points out that
tho taxable resources of tho empire
havo increased almost .entirely as a
result of tho enforcement of temperance.
uu
Read the Classified Ads.
THREE BABY LIONS HAVE CHRISTENING PARTY AT CENTRAL
PARK ZOO AND ALL THE BIRDS AND THE BEASTS WERE THERE
'V '
Tho three baby lions newly arrived at the Central Park Zoy
The christening party held at tho Central Park Zoo. New York, recently was the occasion of naming three
brand now baby lions, nono of whom had had a name before. All the birds and the beasts wero there, as the old
song goes. The baby lions were named Isabella, Guayama and Aguadilla, but they wiggled around so much
while being named that no one is sure now whattheir names aro separately.
----- L - 1
8 A 0
Brother-in-Law of Jos.
Goss Crushed by
an Engine.
Don C. Bassett of Salt Lake City, a
brother-in-law of Manager Joseph
Goss of the Orphoum theatre, was in
stantly killed yesterday evening about
200 yards north of the Riverdale
crossing, when he was struck by the
engine of Union Pacific passenger
train No. 22. Tho tragedy marked the
finish of a trip from Salt Lake to Og
den, which Bassett was making in his
automobile in company with A. Finch,
George Seaman, L. H, Hadley and E.
Perrlngton. These four were not in
jured. The party, according .to an Investi
gation made last night and today by
Trainmaster W. H. Shelver of tho
Union Pacific, Mr. Goss and county
officials, was seen by two residents of
Riverdale to reach the railroad cross
ing. Hero tho automobile was turned
onto the Union Pacific right-of-way
and driven about 150 yards north on
tho tracks, crossing a cattle guard,
it was driven about 50 feet further
north between tho two tracks. At this
point, it was learned last night from
the four companions of Bassett, the
headlight of train No. 22 was seen ap
proaching from the north
The automobile, being boxed in by
the two tracks, they left it In tho
meantime, a westbound freight train
was' approaching and the -engineer,
seeing the red tail lights of tho auto
mobile, brought his train to a stop and
wlUstled a warning to the engineer of
train No. 22. Tho warning was heard
by Engineer Frank Gunnell of the
passenger train, who threw on the
emergency brakes. He was too late,
however, to avoid hitting the automo
bile, one sido of which was totally
demolished.
The train came to a stop within five
car-lengths of the spot where the auto
mobile was struck and Finch, Sea
man, Hadley and ' Perrington were
brought to the Ogden depot in the ca
boose of the freight train, it being
thought that they had been the only
occupants of the automobile. They
appeared in a dazed condition, due, it
Is believed, to an over-indulgence in
liquor, and wero not able even to rec
ollect how many wore in their party.
When they arrived at the Union
passenger station, ono of the four re
called that the original party num
bered five. On getting this informa
tion, Trainmaster W. C. Shelver re
turned to the scene of tho accident
with an engine and caboose. Assist
ed by the engine crew, he searched
the brush at tho side of the track and
the body of Bassott was found in a
ditch nearly 50 feet distant and di
rectly west of the Riverdale canning
factory. It was carried to the factory
platform and was removed from there
to tho Kirkendall mortuary in Ogden.
From tho circumstances surrounding
the tragedy, it is thought that Bassett
left tho automobile with his compan
ions, but failed to get clear of the
track in time to avoid being struck
by the passenger train. His death is
supposed to have been instantaneous
as he suffered a fractured skull, sov
eral broken ribs and a crushed right
arm and left leg. Tho four men who
were with him last night could not be
found today.
The men In charge of the passen
ger train wero Engineer Frank Gun
nell and Conductor Dick Robins and
those in charge of tho work train
wero Engineer Robert Sharp, Conduc
tor T. O'Keefe. T. H. Manning was
the fireman of tho latter train and
iA Driving Force of i
30,000
Imagine a great array of 30,- j!
000 people working for you for
25 cents a day; 30,000 people !;
read tho Standard the most
prosperous people in tho world. 5
Make them an attractive offer )
.Jn a Want or Display Ad. and !;
you will havo 30,000 people !'
building your income for 25 !'
cents a day.
ATTEMPT I
TO KILL I
WILSON I
Man With a Knife Jumps 1 H
On Automobile in
Pittsburg. 1 1
Pittsburg, Pa., Oct 20. President .
Wilson and William J. Bryan, former ijf
secretary of state, met here today for
the first time In months. The prosl
dent stopped in Pittsburg for an hour iH
and a half on the way from Chicago
to Long Branch, N. J., and Mr. Bryan
came here on the way to speak at
Johnstown, Pa.
As soon as the president arrived
at the station, the former secretary
of state entered Mr. Wilson's private
car and the two men shook hands. A 'H
large crowd outside the car witnessed
the greeting. The men spoko together
only for a moment or two, then left
the ll
The appearance of Mr. Bryan caused 1 'M
a five-minute delay in an automobile '
tour of Pittsburg, arranged for the 1
president. Automobiles of the presi
dent's party were waiting outside of
the station, and President and Mrs.
Wilson Immediately entered one of
them. Mr. Bryan and Secretary Tu
multy rode In another.
On the ride here, the president lost
his hat and the automobile was
stopped, while a 'secret service man
recovered ft. A man, apparently a
workman, with a bag of tools, jumped ,H
on tho running board of the automo- iH
bile, but was knocked off by secret '
service men. The man chased tho
president's conveyance for a block
beforo he was arrested by local de- I
tectives.
Tho prisoner gave the name of
Richard Cullon, aged 22, a machinist H
of this city. On his way to the police H
station he told the polico that he was
not at all satisfied with President
Wilson's conduct in tho European
war. In the bag he carried was a
knife with a blade five inches long
and a bottle of liquid which the po
lice are endeavoring to analyze. Also
In the bag were several wood chisels. Il
The prisoner is held by the police for
observation. -
C. B. Higgins and J. F. Spracher,
brakemen.
Don C. Bassett was 40 years of age i
and a native of Salt Lake. He was i
a salesman employed by the Art Nov
elty company, and lived with his wife i H
and three young sons, Don C, Jr., f
Ralph and Dexter, in the Frances ,
apartments, 467 East Fourth South
street, Salt Lake.
Mr. Bassott owned his car and fre-
quently made business trips into the j
surrounding territory. Yesterday IH
morning he left Salt Lake accompa
nied by a number of business friends,
for Ogden. WM
Besides his wife, who, before her j IH
marriage, was Miss Charlotte Goss, I 11
Mr. Bassott is survived by Freeman 1 IH
Bassett and Allan Bassett, brothers; IH
Mrs. Cora Reyser of Garfield, a sis- : IH
ter; Fred C. Bassett, a half-brother, '
and Miss Lois Bassott, a half-sister. j iH
He was the son or the late C. H. Bas- ,
sett His father, one of Utah's plo- i
neers, died several years' ago, but his Pl
mother, now residing in Idaho, sur- ,
vivos him.
VON KLUCK HAS
QUIT M ARMY I
Berlin, Oct 19, via London, S:45 'Fl
p. m. Field Marshal Alexander H. R. ' fcH
von Kluck, who commanded the right iV.H
wing of tho German army in Its sweep 'Hl
toward Paris in tho fall of 1914, has iKI
been placed on the retired list at his
own request Ho had never returned ,
to the front since ho was wounded
by shrapnel fire In March, 1915, while
inspecting advanced positions. Tho 'iH
field marshal was 70 years of ago last 1 'H
May.
The Ogden delegation will give a
army took an important part in the 'jH
Gorman advance toward Paris in Sep- .
tcmber, 1914. His advance halted
about thirty miles from tho French 'jl
capital and his force, with the rest
of tho Gorman army, was checked ;
and driven back in the battle of the 1 KH
Marne. HH
r : a
! Two Free packages of Sunripe Pancake Hour ; H
With each Want Ad for tomorrow's Standard.
