The Echo has a
reading circulation
of over 4,000 per
sona who trade in
Leavenworth. Ad
vertise and increase
your Business.
Vol. 13. No. 42
TERMINAL BUILDINGS
YARD IMPROVEMENTS
$150,000 Will Be Spent Here by G. N.
in Near future—Concrete Round
House and More Yardage
The above information was given out
last week, but too late for publication
in last week's Echo. Mr. Logan, ter
minal agent during Mr. Woodrow's ab
sence, says he has had confidential in
formation to the eflect that improve
ment at Leavenworth terminal would
begin sometime in the near future for
more than a month, but dared not give
out the news pending the decision of
the "higher ups" to make the news
public. He says the new round house
will be very much larger in order
to accommodate the large mallet en
gines and will also provide room for a
larger number of engines than the pres
ent wooden building. A machine
shop of larger dimensions is also con
templated, as well as other much need
ed buildings for the convenience of
the employees. A larger turntable is
also one of the contemplated improve
ments. The yard trackage will also be
increased by the lengthening of the
tracks.
Accompaning the announcement
made in the Wenatchee World of last
Saturday that paper states:
"This ends the rumor that has been
more or less current in Wenatchee for
years that the Great Northern even
tually will make Wenatchee a division
point, moving the shops from Leaven
worth here."
The information was also given out
at the same time that considerable im
provement in the way of additional
siding trackage and enlargement of the
round house at Wenatchee would be
made at the same time.
A Demand for fewer Laws
Many candidates for legislative offices
are promising to enact no new laws,
but to repeal some. Public sentiment
and business interests are demanding
more and more a let-up in the volume
of legislation. Still many political con
ventions adopted platforms pledging
candidates to enact new laws if elected.
If all the measures promised are
brought before the state law making
bodies, there will be a perfect deluge
of new legislation, and lawyers and
courts will have the time of their lives
in giving them logical interpretation.
The statute books of every state in
the Union is burdened already with
more laws than are needed or than can
be enforced. Repeal is more neces
sary than new laws, and amendment of
existing statutes, with a view to avoid
ing contradiction and promoting uni
formity, is most essential of all. Busi
ness is throttled or hampered on all
sides by conflicting and contradictory
laws and regulating commissions.
In the language of Thomas Jefferson,
that community which is "governed
least is governed best." It is the fash
ion with the thoughtless to judge of a
legislator's value by the number of
bills that he introduces, and with too
many legislators to think they are neg
lecting their duty and not earning their
salary unless they propose a new act
every day. The truth is that the
country would in many instances be
better served and would save money if
its lawmakers were paid for doing noth
ing at all.
Don't Forget the Kumtux Concert Ott. 30
On Monday evening, Oct. 30, the
Maurer Sisters, who will be remembered
as having given one of the best musical
entertainments heard here last winter,
will again be here. Be sure and se
cure seats. *2
Mr. J. C. Smith left for Seattle last
week in answer to advice that his father
was seriously ill. Mr. Smith, Senior.
died last Saturday aod was buried last
Sunday. Mr. Smith is head man in
the dry goods department of the Le«v
enworth Mercantile Cos. store.
Butter Wrappers at the Echo Office.
Olympia na«h
tlbe Xeavenwortb )Ecbo
Pulitzer's Opinion of Hughes
The New York World, most rabid of
Hughes haters, is much perturbed be
cause republican papers are quoting
from the will of its former owner, the
late Joseph Pulitzer, naming Hughes
as one of the executors of his estate.
The world says that Pulitzer may have
considered Hughes a good man for ex
ecutor of his estate, but that does not
indicate an opinion that he would make
a good president. Now comes the dis
closure that Pulitzer uot only wanted
Hughes to serve as an executor, with
out bonds, in managing an estate that
included the World property, but also
predicted that he would some day be
president. And Pulitzer was a far
wiser man than the present managers
of the World.
POINDEXTER fLAYS WILSON
AND DEMOCRATIC PARTY
In Speech at Seattle—Republicans of
King County United in His
Support
In a brief address, preceding his in
troduction of Chas. W. Fairbanks, re
publican nominee for vice president, at
a big republican rally in Seattle last
week, Senator Miles Poindexter flayed
President Wilson and the democratic
national administration and predicted
victory for the entire republican ticket
in this state.
Senator Poindexter, who was one of
the chief national figures in the pro
gressive party movement of four years
ago, and has held the confidence and
leadership of the progressive element
of the party in this state since the in
ception of that party, is in full accord
with the new spirit of harmony that has
brought the factions of the republican
party together in a firm and confident
union, arid as one of the leaders of the
reunited party in this state, is making
a splendid fight for republicanism in
this campaign.
Always secure in a strong personal
following, even when the republican
party was divided, he is certain of
victory now with a united party back
of him.
"Who is Mary Anton?"
The great Sufiraget special, loaded
with women prominent in women suf
frage work, was in Spokane Friday,
Oct. 13th, and the Spokesman-Review
of the same date contained the follow
ing interesting bit of information:
"Friends of Governor Ernest Lister
are telling an anecdote at his expense,
which had its setting in the Davenport
lobby last night. Governor Lister and
members of his party were in the lobby
while the Hughes alliance women were
holding a reception. Some of the
friends suggested that he meet the
eastern women. He evinced no par
ticular enthusiasm. At that moment
Mary Antin, one of the best known
writers and lecturers in the party, pass
ed and was pointed out to Governor
Lister.
" 'That woman is Mary Antin,' he
was told. Governor Lister showed no
great interest at the sound of her name.
'Who in the world is Mary Antin?' he
asked and his friends did not have the
courage to enlighten him."
Do You Want to |V©te Inteli
gcntly?
Before going vo the poles to vote
every man and woman ought to post
himself and herself about the initiative
and referendum measures. They are
near the bottom of the ballot. They
relate to the liquor traffic, the Seattle
port commission and other matters of
importance to the taxpayer. A
phamphlet gotten out by the state
gives a full and detailed account of the
I purpose of every proposed initiative or
'referred law. Get one and read up
! and know how to vote understanding^.
! Free at Koerner's Drug Store and the
City Drug Store. 42-44
Wanted —10 tons upland potatoes
CASH. Rainier Cale.
The Higher Up the Valley You Go the Bigger and Better the Apples Grow
Leavenworth, Wash., Friday, October 20, 1916
100,000 APPLE PIES GIVEN
AWAY AT SPOKANE SHOW
During National Apple Show Week a
Stack of Pies Ten Thousand feet
High Baked for Visitors.
Spokane. Wash., Oct. 18. —One hun
dred thousand apple pies will be given
away to visitors at the ninth National
Apple Show, in Spokane, Nov. 20 to
25, it is announced by Gordon C.
Corbaley, manager of the show.
"Every one entering the apple palace
will be given a pie hot from the oven,"
states Mr. Corbaley. "We are going
to show the people that we not only
have apples good to look at but better
to eat
"A model kitchen is being installed
in the apple show enclosure, and six
large ovens working night and day will
turn out pies by the mile. Our ovens
will have a capacity of 10,000 a day,
and we shall commandeer a number of
restaurant ranges if the crowds come
too fast."
Representative men from every apple
district in the northwest are in charge
of arrangements for the show, in ac
cordance with the policy of having the
actual growers themselves conduct the
show. John B. Adams, Leavenworth,
is a member of the out of town board
of trustees.
REPUBLICAN PARTY VICTORY
IN WASHINGTON IS FORECAST
Vote Shows Six Times as Many Republi
cans as Democrats—4o,ooo Major
ity freely Predicted.
There are six times as many repub
licans as democrats in the state of
Washington according to the vote cast
in the primary election on September
12th. The official figures given out
by the state canvassing board at Olym
pia last week show that 214,660 repub
lican yotes were cast, 34,970 demo
cratic votes and 469 progressive votes.
As Chairman F. C. Harper, of the
republican state central committee,
points out, the democrats can get little
comfort from these returns, as they
show that the republican party in
Washington is a&ain thoroughly united
and that the democratic party is in a
hopeless minority.
The returjs show that Uuited States
Senator Miles C. Poindexter won on
first choice as well as combined first
and second, and that former Governor
Henry Mcßride lead his rivals for the
gubernatorial nomination on both first
and second choice votes.
In view of the overwhelming strength
of the republicans in this state, as in
dicated by the primary vote, the repub
lican state headquarters expresses ab
solute confidence in a decisive victory
for the entire ticket on November 7th.
That the republican majority may be
forty thousand is freely predicted.
Off to the Elks' Carnival
Doctor and Mrs. Judah and Mr. and
Koerner left early yesterday morning
by way of Blewett pass in the Doctor's
car for North Yakima to take in the
Elks' carnival. At one o'clock Mr.
and Mrs. O. S. Sampson decided to go
in Mr. Samson's Cadilac, accompanied
by Mr. A. A. Pinch and Mr.acd Mrs.
Geo. Sterling.
Roosevelt's Wilkes-Barre Speech
It is one of the most wonderful of the many speeches this re
markable man has made. II it could be read by every voter who can
and does think, it would have a most profound, if not convincing, effect
on his most obdurate political opponent. He is the most logical
thinker, the soundest reasoner and convincing talker in the country.
How he could marshal so many well authenticated facts in the compass
of one short speech, stite them so simply and plainly, and yet forcibly,
is nothing short of marvelous. After reading the speech one cannot
escape the conclusion that he- is either the most unselfish, patriotic
American citizen.or the deepest and roost secretive Machiavelian mar
plot that ever lived. We prefer to believe the former.
If you c«n get a copy of the complete speech read it and then
decide for yourself.
Peshastin
J. W. Sussex, of Cashmere, was in
town a few minutes Sunday.
Tom Wilson has sold his old car and
has purchased a new 1917 model
Maxwell.
Mr. Morgan, father of Mrs. R. I.
Curtis, left for his home in California
Tuesday.
Mr. and Mrs. Tom Stage are enter
taining this week Elizabeth Harold, of
Everett, Wash.
Mrs. Wilma Moore expects to move
into the store building for the winter
in the near future.
Mrs. P. R. Bradley was called to
Bellingham Sunday on account of her
father being very low.
Miss Duncanson, a teacher in the
Cashmere schools, was the guest of
Miss Maude Stewart, Sunday.
Bob. Garretson and wife are down
from Brewster for a few days visiting at
the home of Bob's parents, Mr. and
Mrs. J. C. Garretson.
Blanche Boston who was operated on
for appendicitis at the Deaconess hos
pital in Wenatchee several weeks ago,
was able to be brought home Tuesday
afternoon.
Sam Vanderwest, the good looking
engineer from the Coast line, drove his
car over from Seattle the Ist of the
week and is looking after his apple
crop near town.
Have you heard about the big dance
that is going to take place in Peshastin
Saturday night, Oct. 21. There will
be eood music and lots of sweet cider.
Come and enjoy a good time.
J. J. Griffith has sold his heard of
cows to the Emil Frank dairy, which is
located up the chumstick. Mr. Grif
fith has for a number of years been sell
ing cream and butter, and was a stock
holder in the Leavenworth creamery,
to which plant he delivered his entire
output. Jake says he is getting out of
the business for good.
Up to the time for the registration
books to close, 231 had registered in
the Peshastin precinct. The register
ing has been large in this precinct,
which makes it about the second larg
est registration in the rural districts of
Chelan county. The general election
will be held in the grange building
across the river, as there is no available
place to be had in our city.
Mrs. Nell ie Stage had a painful ac
cident happen to her one day last week
when she struck her head on a door
which was "above her view, causing her
to fall several feet backwards and strik
ing the back of her head on the floor.
The accident happened at the packing
shed. Mrs. Stage was was unconscious
for some time and was unable to leave
her home for several days but is able
to be out at the present time.
Owing to to the shortage of help in
the valley this year, it was thought ad
visable to close our school for two
weeks, as several of the larger pupils
could be employed in the orchards.
Teachers institute will be held next
week which would close the school for
a week. Much work can be done by
the children who are in a position to
help. Miss Stewart and Miss Derringer
left for their homes on the coast where
they will remain this week, returning
in time for institute week.
Wheeler's Photo & Art Shop will be
open every Sunday until after Xmas.
HOW WILSON KEPT US OUT
OF WAR WITH OLD MEXICO
The Record Shows We Made War on
Mexico Without a Declaration Just
as Germany Now Makes War
on Portugal.
An interesting paper by Harry Lane
Wilson, brother of the late John L.
Wilson, publisher of Seattle Post-Intel
ligencer. Because so many misguided
peaple propose to vote for Mr. Wood
row Wilson for re-election it is worth
while to inquire fairly and dispation
ately whether President Wilson really
did keep us out of war, or whether he
really did not get us into war and had
more men killed than were killed in
the war with Spain, without a formal
declaration of war. Germany has been
at war with Portugal for over two years
and has so far never made a formal de
claration. Germany was at war with
Italy for a year and a half before she
made a formal declaration. When one
nation invades the territory of another
and kills its citizens by the hundred
and has some hundred or more of its
own citizens killed, we frankly ask any
fair minded man is that war or peace?
We are not here finding fault with
President Wilson for anything he did
to protect the integrity of the United
States or the life of its citizens. In
deed, thisis one of his most sacred duties
But we do object to the hollow claim
made by his supporters that he has
kept us out of war. Under the circum
stances he would be more reprehen
sible if he had not sought to punish
those troublesome Greasers for killing
our citizens. Many times nations have
gone io war without ever making a
formal declaration. The formal declar
ation is the least important part. The
all-important part is to punish a willful
and deliberate outrage. Read Mr.
Wilson's statement. He was there as
American minister when Madero was
killed.
"Wilson kept this country out of
war?" Nonsense. Veriest nonsense.
Furthermore, is this not an appeal to
some latent strain of supposed degen
eracy in the American blood rather
than one ol virility and patriotism.
For four years I was American am
bassador to Mexico. I saw the fall of
Diaz. I saw the rise and fall of Madero
and the ascendency and decline of
Huerta. I carried on the official ne
gotiations between Americe and Mexico
during the bloodiest revolutions through
which the country to the south of us
passed. Wilson keep this country out
of war? He did not. The statement
is simply a play upon the heartstrings
of the mothers and fathers of this coun
try; a play for votes.
But did anyone keep us out of war
with Mexico? Why are 30,000 Amer
ican troops on Mexican soil and 50,
--000 American boys along the border?
What of the J125,000,000 we have
expended in this "peaceful" war?
What of the lives of American soldiers,
more than were lost in the two-year
war with Spain, that have been sacri
ficed along the Rio Grande and beyond?
Did any one keep us out of war with
Mexico? I say the claims that the ad
ministration kept us out of war is a
preposterous falsehood because we have
already been twice at war with Mexico
since Mr. Wilson has been in the
White House. We landed troops at
Vera Cruz and kept them there for more
than two months for the purpose of
overthrowing the government of Hu
erta. If we had landed soldiers at
Liverpool or Hamburg, does anyone
doubt how our actions would have been
interpreted by the governments of
Great Britain or Germany? We sent
30,000 troops, practically all our avail
able regulars, across the Rio Grande
and they are there today. We dragged
100,000 unwilling guardsmen to the
border and 50,000 are there now. We
are today employing more men against
Mexico than we used in the Mexican
war of 1847. And some democratic
leaden, playing for vote*, try to tell ai
President Wilson kept us out of war.
What nonsense. Carrania has fought
Our Job Printing
department M com
plete. If you ■want
High Class printing
at reasonable prices,
come to this office.
$1.50 Per Year
us and has mined blow after blow upon
us. Villa has fought us and murdered
our citizens and outraged our women,
even on this side of the border. There
has been no actual declaration of war.
But the thousands of American troops
engaged, the hundred million dollars
expended, the unmarked graves along
the Gio Grande, all point to the fact
that we are actually in a state of war
with Mexico today. Wilson keep us
out of war? Wilson wants votes.
Wilson did not even keep us out of
war with Germany. That was done by
the Kaiser himself. As a fact we were
physically unable to go to war with
Germany. It was not our ships and
armies that Germany dreaded. It was
our economic power and the authority
to wage this economic war lay in the
hands of the President. Nevertheless,
we should have blundered into war with
Germany, as every reading man Knows,
but for the prompt action of the Kasier.
In other words, it was the Kaiser who
kept us out of war with Germany and
not the President of the United States.
And the same may be said of Austria.
Emperior Francis Joseph prevented war
between Austria and America, not Pres
ident Wilson.
That we are not at war with both
Germany and Austria, right now is not
to the credit of President Wilson. The
credit is to the rulers of those coun
tries. Whenever this administration
has had an opportunity to irritate with
words it has done so, for President
Wilson studied words all his life and is
a master at stringing them together.
But whenever called upon to make its
words good with deeds, the administra
tion has miserably failed.
Returning to Mexico and to the
"Benevolent" Carranza, the legitimate
successor of Madero, upheld and
pushed forward by the same interests
that were behind Madero. Madero's
government was supposed to be con
stitutional and to recognize interna
tional usages. With the advent of
Carranza and Villa the work of destruc
tion began. The Carranza government
is pledged to the ruin of the Roman
Catholic church and all other religious
organizations in Mexico. This fact is
not concealed in Mexico but is pub
lished on the highways. And here is
something of the result of this cam
paign. Two thousand five hundred
churches have been desecrated, robbed
and destroyed. About 3,000 clergy
men have been exiled from Mexico
and are today mostly in the United
States living on chanty. One hundred
and sixty-four nunneries and convents
have been destroyed and in many in
stances Sisters of Charity and nuns have
been violated in most foul and brutal
ways. Huerta may have been red
handed but he made war on soldiers
and fighting men, never upon defense
less women.
President Madison wobbled and hes
itated and cringed with fear, but finally
brought us into war with Great Britain.
James Buchanan, another democratic
predecessor of President Wilson, halt
ed, hesitated and equivocated and
finally brought us unprepared into a
great civil war. Washington, Lincoln
and McKinley all detested war but
they fought wars —not pitiful, humiliat
ing wars —but wars which redounded
to the national honor and to the na
tional power. Who stand highest in
the estimation of the American people
today, Washington, Lincoln and Me-
Kinley, or Madison and Buchannan?
Is President Wilson more like Madison
and Buchanan or does he more resem
ble Washington and Lincoln?
Wilson keep us out of war with
Mexico? He did not. If American
armies upon foreign soil, if millions of
expenditures, if hundreds of dead, be
not war, what is it?
Wilson wants votes. But he cannot
seduce the American voters by any
such talk as "I prevented war." We
are at war.
Mrs. H. N. Wanner, better koown
here as Miss Louise David, departed
for Seattle, yesterday afternoon, after
spending a month with her patents.
Mr. and Mrs. Emii David.
