THE TENSAS GAZETTE
opuia n C y, Ltd. Officil Paper of the Parish of Te.. School Board nd Fifth Loviaa Levee DisI.ri
- EW SERIES.VOL. XXVI sTT.JIOSEPH, LOUISIANA, FRIDAY, CTOBER 20, 19141 NUIBER :I
g g a gl 1 1q 1 I I I II
ROfESSIONAL CARDS
DR. I. L A. MURDOCK
St. Jsmph, La.
Phywda ad SurSemn
O*oe ea Plaak Rlad
Mae Pheme 14I; Reedeaoe t1
Et La IL, . D. s. T vaI M. a
3. LILLY AND TRICE
S u, ginmues to Drs. Ll y & Adam
SL Joseph, Louasinas
" Offic Buank Bldg., up stairs.
G. H. CLINTON
Attorney-at-Law
ST. JOSEPH, LA.
" prwtso ton East Carroll. MadIsl
1,~mS Concordia. and the Supreno
&a federal Courts.
L GE.ORGE N. CLARK
r. JDOSPMN, - * LOUISIANA do
bL NeraM R sNdih Plank Read th
don
W. D. NOBLE, M. D.
MPyaleean and SurgOea.
O~Wno Phone No. SS.
o No Reldenoe Pheno No. 1
J=Wj LLTON, *. LOUIlILANAh
SOMAS M. WADE, JR.
Ateray-4.Latw da
wlit Iueste I Tews sad adlseu .
a Parldes. mte lapremoe oart a ie
g Stae and the fderal sour n~
sreps ageottas rseal e.eIs co
J. JOSEPkHm , LOUISIANA, he
bl]
nATCHE OONFBCrIONER ro
Conhettses and Sweeta
Of All Klndl,
ANtDIES, CAKES, CI CRIAM. lo
WE SOLICTt
WEDDING AND PARTY pa
ORDERS
Ot Rstaurant Is ) w epe and e In
aoewle Is ueassuled. to
NATCHUE CONFECTIONERY.
ATCHE, . . MISSISSIPPI. at
"SENATOR CARDILL" th
. o. nmnwt. maK r "
O. L WILDS, Clst ar
Regukar T.-Weekly
NATCHEZ & VICKSBURO
PACKIET
inMve Nstabas Sundays. Tunades
-' Thruasys at 13 moon.
3usves V/lubr8 Mndan.. Web
sdajs ad Fridays at anus, w on
aeweal et eSIre tals.
mIam J Win tssa
1. U. Llly. M. M. Joseph Whitaker. M. D.
Phone 70 Phone 71
DRS. LILLY & WHITAKER
Physicans and Surgeons
ST. JOSEPE. LOUISIANA
SOice, Bank Building, Upstairs
Phone 34-J.
A. J. KISNER, M. D.
Specialist
S EBye, Bar, Nose and Throat
(uAcessor to R. C. French)
Natchez - - Mississippi
O. M. FOWLER
Surveyor
S ms ARLINGTON AVE.
Natdchz - Mississippi
P HONE NO. et
I ofer my services to the Tensas
puic, and will be glad to answer
calls by mail or wire.
iTho. MI. Wade, Jr., President.
G. P Bullis, Vice President.
THE TENSAS ABSTRACT CO.
(Incorporated)
ST. JOSEPH, LOUISIANA
Complete and correct Abstracts of
Title of all Tensas Parish lands, made
from records of United States. State
and Parish, and verified with original
leetruments.
Good hard
American dol
lars grow on the
advertising tree.
TgIS rAPER GF'T AD. IRESULTS
Sale .....
B ils et ow price
PRINTED
We'arele r do
out work d this
double-quick tbme.
[tli oriC
Wall Mrasa
THE SCHOLAR AND THE SKULL.
Sarah :dtIwell's aly claim to a
deathless r.nown restp upon the fact
that a gre, ;; man bro ght her to her
doom, and so the det4ils of her life
story are meager, but atfew facts have
survived.
At the beginning of tie seventeenth
century she was a maid servant in the
home of a wealthy citizes of Hunting
donshire. She was untsually good
looking, and had some lducation-a
;rare thing for a handmai)en in those
days-and was generall!, above her
station. In the employ ( the same
fI amily there was a middl-aged man
named Armstrong. He wasrather un
couth, with a huge shock of sorrel
hair, and little more is lpown of
him, except that he was a great fa
vorite with his master. AtbnItrong
saved, his money a penny at + time,
and as he approached the sere d yel
low leaf he found he had mosey hough
to buy an inn that was for 1al. He
and Sarah were married, ant took
possession of the inn.
It is reasonable to suppose tht the
SInfluence of the master was bright
to bear to effect this marriag of
the servants, for it doesn't seem I)b
I able that Sarah would have chosetLs
her husband a loutish man more,thAn
twice her age. However that may be,
the two settled down in their caras-*
sary, and Sarah was greatly respe4ed
and admired. Many young men me
I- m in ]Iml lm II m
S\ ' .
ii -
t
"s Curiokull; Se How Huge N Hs Drive Ito t
it's a Curiomu Skull; See How a Hugo Nail Has ten Driven Into It."
eyes at the handsome wife, but they Il
had to keep their distance. Then one s
morning Mrs. Armstrong calmly in- b
formed the neighbors that her hus- a
band had died during the night. He o
had drunk himself into a stupor before [
retiring, she said, and died from the v
effects of his debauch. That seemed b
strange to some of the neighbors, for a
Armstrong was known as an unusually a
temperate man. There doubtless was
some malicious gossip, but the husband t
was buried in the crowded churchyard. t
Before he had been there, among the I
, rude forefathers of the hamlet, for 24 I
t hours, the widow had married a young a
I man named Maxwell. Then there was a
- more talk--eough to fasten the events I
in the memories of the inhabitants, for
future use.
Sarah and her new husband conduct- I
ed the inn for many years. Sarah be- I
came the mother of several admirable I
children, and was in every way an ex
cellent matron. As she waxed older I
she became devout and was free with 4
precept and admonition. Every Sun- I
day she might have been seen in the
church, and the eloquence of the new
preacher often moved her to tears. His
eyes often were upon her as he talked,
for a good -isfener is a great help to
a clergyman, and this motherly woman
seemed so intelliget4 and appreciative
that it was a pleasua3 to talk to her.
The new preach.- was Dr. John
Donne, one of the truly great men of
his time. He had accepted a "living"
in Huntingdonshire and occasionally
preached there, alth4ugh most of his
time was spent in Lendon. He was a
great preacher, and the most beautiful
man in England. Reautifui is the
word; the old writert say he had the
face of an angel. Izak Walton wrote
an enthusiastic trlbu* to him, saying
that "he carried his Yhrers to heaven
in a holy rapture; he pctured vice so
that we hated it, and virtue so that we
loved it."
As a poet he was equally great, and
many learned men of the period held
that he was without a peer. Ben Jon
son said he was "the first poet in the
world in some things, but he will per
ish for not being understood," which
prophecy has come true. Dryden said
he was the greatest wit of the nation.
He was an impulsive man, full of fan
tastic moods and fancies. Some of
his poetry was as light as thistledown,
and some was profound. Now it was
voluptuous, and again morbid.
He wrote much about the mystery
of death, and that subject interested
him to such a degree that he haunted
graveyards. One day he stood in the
graveyard surrounding his church and _
watched the weary sexton at work. It
was an old, old cemetery, and every
lime a grave was dug bones were
thrown up. Poor people buried there -
could not count upon undisturbed re- ut
pose. In a few years at most they m
would have to make way for others. TI
Presently, as the sexton wielded his rij
shovel, he threw out a skull, and the
preacher picked it up, and doubtless qt
moralized upon the vanity of human th
life. As he turned it around in his ta
hands, his fingers encountered a pro- tr
jection. It was the head of a nail.
Examination showed that the nail had ai
been driven through the skull, and it tl
still protruded into the inner cavity d(
two or three inches. r
The reverend doctor realized at once ai
that a horrid crime had been commit- fi
ted. He questioned the sexton as to
whose grave had been disturbed, but P
the sexton didn't know. He had off- a
cdated only a few years. Perhaps his ei
predecessor might remember. The
predecessor was a white and wintry re
gaffer who lived at some distance. ti
Donne hunted him up, and took him ol
to the graveyard. The old man's wits
were feeble, but his memory for all
I things connected with dead men's
bones was accurate. He at once an
nounced that the grave had been occu
pied by Armstrong, the innkeeper.
Doctor Donne inquired about the vil- b
lage concerning the death of Arm
I strong, and the oldest inhabitants re
called the wife's queer story, and her
remarkable haste to get married again.
There was reason for suspicion, at
least; but the good doctor found it
t almost impossible to believe that the
Sfine, devout woman who listened to his
sermons so closely could be guilty of
an atrocious crime. If ever a calm,
untroubled face spoke of a clear con- -
science, the face belonged to that
woman.
i But he felt it his duty to set his p
e doubts at rest. If she was guilty, the V
t -
law must havelts due; if innocent. 1
she shbould be Adlcated. So one day
he called at the in with a small pack
age in his hand& The good wife was
overwhelmed witipleasure and pride.
She took him intkthe best room, and
while her back turned he opened
his parcel and plyd the skull upon
a table. When sh -rned around she
saw it and her facececame ghastly.
"It's a curious 4il," said Donne,
taking it up; "see h4 a huge nail has
been driven into it." And he looked
into her eyes as tho he would read
her soul. She sank a seat weeping
and moaning. and en, while the
gentle pastor held hands she told
how she slew her bh d.
She was convicted Ad sentenced to
death, and during the brief interval
between her trial and execution the
man who had been er Nemesis proved
her comforter and onler. He was
with her almost stantly through
those tryig hours, d to such good
effect that she *went t of the world
hopefully, with a smil n her lips.
Celluloid.
Celluloid Is Made cellulose,
which is the chie ingrent in the
solid part of many commo plants, in
cluding the cotten plant. The con
version of cellulose into alold in
volves a series of chemical rocesses
which could not convenientl be de
scribed here. When finished telluloid
is tough, rivagng ivory in elasticity,
and can be alsly molded or carved
tbto various Dhapes. Every stage of
the process Pquires technical knowl
i edge and sll. Celluloid was first
made more un 0o years ago by an
, Ehgllsh chiast named Parks and
Swas called 'prslne. Then it was
i called xylite but both of these
Snames havy supplanted by cell.
Sload.
PPI?
Buying $100,000 Worth of Herring in Whispers
IEW YORK.-The New York herring exchange hasn't any fixed home. One
week It may meet on pier 56, North river, and the next week it may fore
gather under a shed at the foot of West Twenty-fourth street. It all depends
upon the herring. Wherever the ship
ment is landed, there is the exchange.
The exchange always follows the her
ring.
The herring exchange makes the
quotations for herring in the same way
that the stock exchange fixes the quo
tations for railroad shares and indus
trials.
The herring exchange and a barrel
of herring are opened at the same
time, and immediately following this o)
double opening, the exchange members
roll up one sleeve, thrust a hand into the open barrel, bring forth a herring
and closing the teeth on the dorsal fin pull it off. Then they bite into the
fleshy part of the back, and with much smacking of lips gauge its flavor.
When a member has tried the flavor of the fish and noted its size and
plumpness he makes a whispered bid very close to the ear of the importers'
agent, and the importers' agent makes a whispered reply very close to the
ear of the member and a quotation is established.
At a recent session 8,000 packages of Scotch herring were on the pier
roughly about $100,000 worth. This importation was of what are known in
the trade as matJes, or soft-cured herring. One package of each lot was
opened and sampled.
Policemen of Minneapolis Provided With Parasols
SINNEAPOLIS.-Here in Minneapolis the sun has been shining hot, hotter,
hottest, during the last days-not to speak of other places where it has
been hot. And. becaus:e of those boasted wide streets of the Mill City, the
buildings do not throw so much shade
Son the street crossings as is graciously
provided in other cities. Policemen
* ( who must stand at their posts, at these
--Q)oERE 0A 4wide, prairielike crossings, have been
T ER / compelled, during the hot spell, to
stand embroiled in the sun, and take
s their turn no matter what the ther
mometer.
Ž_ But the women of Minneapolis are
noted for their attention to the pub
t' lic weal. They may not have the vote,
but judging from parades and other
public demonstrations, eleven-tenths of them want to vote. Still, they do not
wait for the vote in order to serve their city. They also serve while
they stand and wait for the vote.
One of these very capable Minneapolis women, Mrs. Horace Lowry,
noticed the policemen standing in the sun of the prairie crossings. Straight
way, being a woman and being accustomed to the feminine resources whereby
life is made happier in such weather as this, Mrs. Lowry remembered
parasols.
A parasol for the policemen! Precisely so! But it's a long way through
the Tipperary routine of a meeting of the council and the devising of speci
fications and the advertising for bids and the manufacturing process. By that
time it would be January and there would be no need of parasols. So this
benefactress of the guardian race provided parasols herself. To each police
man his' parasol.
Many Gotham Nicks in Row Over Nickeled Nick
N EW YORK.-If Nicholas Xenodoclousosis had refrained from giving a
nickeled peanut roaster to his nephew, Nicholas Arhagasenas, St. Nicholas
avenue would not have resounded with one of the loudest cases ever heard
there. Fortunately for Arhagasenas
he was able to prove, through the in
terpreter, Nicholas Demolaviocolusi
ones, that the nickel-plated peanut
roaster given him by his uncle had no
nick in it, while that lost by Nicholas
Zacharakes had one.
Nicholas Zacharakes one night
lost a nickel-plated peanut roaster
with a nick in it.
Zacharakes, after wringing his
hands and the cat's neck, decided to
have a day of relaxation far from the
scene of his loss. He stopped for a moment at the peanut stand of Nicholas
Cocores.
While the contemporary peanut merchants were exchanging a few foreign
words Zacharakes gave a scream, pointed to the offcial peanut roaster of the
t, Cocores store and declared that it was his.
y Cocores declared he had bought the peanut roaster from Nicholas Baslo
k- locous.
s Basiolocous proved that he had bought the roaster from Nicholas
e. Kashaeneses, who in turn swore that he had bought it from Nicholas Ar
Id hagasenas.
d Arhagasenas told them frankly about the generosity of his uncle, Nlche
in las Xenodociousosis, but the other Nicholas laughed a trfle hoarsely,
e Arhagasenas proved that his uncle did give him a nickel peanut roaster with
no nick in it and was straightway discharged.
e, His uncle appeared to corroborate him in the nick of time.
Only Toy of the Eugenic Baby of Denver Is a Cow
c ~ENVER.-A child is being reared in Denver under eugenic ideas. These
Id rules have been evolved by those in charge:
Never use "baby talk."
Give him no toys.
Don't teach him to believe in
Santa Clanus.
e Give him a cow to play with.
isDiet him on cereal, with milk and
Sa tiny bit of sugar and cow's milk.
h Teach him perfect table manners.
Frederick Fish, eighteen months
Id Wa'. " Lold, Denver's eugeneic baby, received
Sa newspaper interviewer. Baby Fish
wore becoming pink rompers.
If the interviewer had mid to
'e Frederick "Is oo a dood boy?" Fred
crick only would have stared blankly. He has never heard "baby talk." His
in mother doesn't permit it.
n "We use the same words in speaking to Frederick as we would in con
es versing with educated grown-ups," Mrs. Fish said.
e- Mr. and Mrs. Fish are both eugenists and euthenists. A eugenist em
id phasizes the inheritance; a euthenlst the environment Frederick's environ
ty, ment is carefully studied for him in advance, Mrs. Fish being a leader of the
ed Denver eugenists.
o The eugeuist principle hasn't anything particularly to do with the fact
wl- that a cow is Prederick's chief playmate. It happens the cow is Frederick's
rat staff of life and has contributed the milk that has given Frederick rosy cheeks,
an a "lovely" disposition, fat legs and bright blue eyes.
sd The cow will gently rub its head against the baby's face. Whenr it is
a lying down, lazily chewing a cud, Frederick rolls over it and otherwisae enjo~
Shimself at the cow's expense. Cherry, the cow, is intensely jealous of the
g. little fellow, manifesting displeasure when anyone pets the child in its pee*
ence or attempts to join in the play.
EDISON'S
LATEST STYLE CABINET-HORNLESS
PHONOGRAPH
QUIm wrrs
Te, Dimamd Repredeer and the Blue Ambera Reeed
The -ew m.. Amberl rieor le preaeeoaly iadeearstihi.
wlea jalaye with the Ulemd Diamond Repvodeer the timhe
a ev rtunes t the oerisal musn are faithfully preervd ad
the aeproduetm i s free trem meohaatcal quality. Oateaog ii..
JOHNSTON'S CHOCOLATES HAVE BECOME INTERNATIONAL
FAVORITES, AND ARE RECOGNIZED AS THE
WORLD'S FINEST CONFECTIONS.
Some of the Meet Popular SellerI Area
INNOVATIONS SWEET, TRIAD, QUINTETTE,
MALTED MILK, CHOCOLATE BRAZIL NUTS IN CREAM,
THAT PACKAGE, EXTRAORDINARY, ETC.
Put up in dainty packages, from 80c to $6.00.
Hugo Jereslaw,
WIWELLTON, - - - - LOUISIANA
Hot Springs, Ark.
TIE NATION'S FASHIONABLE PLAYGROUND
NATURE'S GREATEST SANITARIUM
QUICKEST TIME AND BEST SERVICE
VIA
S----IRON MOUNTAIN---.
S Per Full Infomation as to Sohedule, Rates, t., or for P
illuetrated Booklet, See Your Local Tleket Agent, or write
t A. G.P.A.
ANTS .. O :. PLOWS
. Pea Vise Rakes
Them.. Hay Rakee and Mower
Allen. Planet Jr. Cultlvters
WIneheeter Arm. Ce.
Si- - A HARROWS
Howe Scale.
Smith & Wesson Revolvers
Mllburn £ Hlekman Wagene
h Champlen MowgMacnneki , rIr,. p
t. Plow "CUTIVATORS
at Vulvan Plow C.
1 Banner Buggle
- MeIlem Plow Co.
- eeAtNS. Finv -o. PLOW GEAR
oerlin Emery Wheel Co.
SLEWIS HOFFMAN"OMPAWN
. HotRa Block - . . Vickbmrg, MIlm.
Thos. J. Holmes,
mTin and Shcct Iron Workcr,
M LESPEDEZA 8BED PANS FOR SALE
SBy the use of this pen attehed to the cutter ba
I- of Mowing MaChine, yao s ave from one to to
S bushels of seed to the sere. ,
'TI atohebe, h3dims.
IIotel "Natohem"
Ith te aB tbies P el t fAtm s at tmbd herod.
ai HO, nBArTD Mn BA N rRuggl
trI A avery sophg p r - peqpl.
. J . . BT - - .- Parq 1r
* Are You Going to Build?
nad i o oary out il ides ar the mo Bfalle egoitigs
y seeing s about the heber iquireP 1r the urposa
TI .o bT6O - -m an*, bdld -eB
AND DUSED WIlB
iO t 0 em m. We msak a spedalty at Long Lat Yelow Pis
.Flooring. Alwys ge our prims ad IaveMgste ear
bofoe plis dng r dera
L A. ENOCHS, T he Lumbenman
act NATCELE, ES.
SJOB PRINTING .- ,, .'""
the , dl .bseper , the Oter felow. Weddlag inmIlts, klsr rad, bi ,.
..ie b lla, m enis, d*4, o*. * , ·*m** *.. caue e ie,,me s emem
-miaMle aurm -n asems . Im e ddeblvlershp
