■TffH TEAR. No. 18.
KjCfllO 1 PRINCESS.
flL<ineobersOth to the 25th will
NlaUt National Apple show
-iiSfniL *• always an impor
#Teßt ln the Inl:mcl Kni '
it Mt only brings together a
•Valejcomprehensive exhibition of
•aLtmitgrown in the northwest
crowds of people, many
ire looking for investments
msnacement of the show
exerting every effort to
Nistb National Apple Show
that has ever been
J9K|«{tk that aim in view is in
nHtperstion of every fruit
IK, g the surrounding country.
*PP ,e cr °p Blis year is
gtgh grade, and this county
-Ml. g iifiy represented among
; " ,: Kgmsttsactlons of this show is
Ek kl< court, which Includes
EgH Ms the various fruit dis-
county has been so
'Ss Mad a princess, and it is
to Dike the selection by a
UK (•ML The towns that will be
IKi fethls contest are Orovllle,
||Ka Brsviter, Twisp, Wintbrop.
Riverside, Tonasket
ISftMi Each place will name a
the candidate receiving l
|K«Mt umber of votes will be
■Hrt the princess to represent
maty. The voting win be
HdTwM* printed In the news-
ting the several towns.
■m trill be good for ten votes,
|S||tat is necessary is to cut the
|H|«t«f the paper when they ap
|Hghrtbts7th of October, write in
■■ ityssr choice, and send the
Histai office.
a young lady In the Oka
|Hlg|lilhtrtet, or any other land.
IHlMaft Imagined that she would
|S»fei real princess? Only such
Mpm that Will not be interested
to choose Princess Oka-
hi a member of the royat
nurffil Majesty King Pip at the
Apple Show in Spo
■tlumber soth to 25th. Heie is
Htmtoity of a life time for Oka
popular young lady to
IBitllit of a princess, to attend
■toMrt, to receive the homage of
|H*Mslt of the famous app• dis-
Hlllfln Northwest, and to occupy
SMRlbm ter one week, ana all of
near future,
pm*n and the other I
«f apple land, Wenatchee,
Hied River, Walla Wal a,
totter Root, Kallapell and
■tottoll nil participate in the
features In connection with
of King Pip at the National
Mkltv. A brilliant assembly will
B 1 r *thag upon the return of King
apple kingdom after a year's
ct Tuesday evening, Noven,-
Iha crowning of Princess
will be held Thursday
Btosfc»«mber s3rd, and the wnd
■jjtody Malden Blush and 3i other
Bjtoawlll take place Friday even
■toetorMlb.
with these Impirlal
M*wtoto, will be a series of eator-
B* W| that will keep Princess Oka-
V* *■s all of the week that
V*tMOber of the court of King
■•MMgsmut of the show will
■■"theexpenses for the visit of
ftoanognn to Spokane, and
■■■Mrtalament at the Davenport
Spokane women will
cyttbe apple show princesses.
■'■"■Okanogan will be chosen in I
[Mar voting contest conducted by
UrnT? ** ®' can0 6 an apple dia
r Mlßalag October 27th, ballots
f that can be used by
P"IW reader* to vote for their
any expense. The
■TJ to be chosen Princess Oka-
P** 1 } w least 16 years of age
L t ttan 21 and wln be
E... tofnlsh her photograph for
My*™ Apple Show. Ballots will
I ** M office of the Gazette
t*~togpokane for the final count
FMoucement of the winner.
**** WTO BANKRUPTCY.
Co-operative store, of
rjlW* out ot existence
«JT n *tcy route owing to
JO* bast" system, and possibly
, !*?•* publicity may have
■etor in the premature death,
will the business
does not advertise in some
craters’ Co-operative As
»|f|| *** Parted some two years
Nuhw re, * den t8 of the nelghbor
i *tock in the concern, and
the store showed signs of
However, bad accounts ac
hills against the concern
and the inevitable was the
{■ i
°ue instance of many
thlsHu* ventures going on the
Where one co-oper
••Cceeds, no matter what
***• «n hundred fall. It is
of incompetent man-
IjIBofUM 0 f business meth-
inference of those who
°t other people’s
conceive the idea
N|JVT*°te are making enormous
**t it is a game that any
hufr/y *t. They form the erron-
Ri. that is necessary to
ih '■ to buy a stock of
h m •* c otelng a stand slough
• •* eager public. They do
l\T\7jr /\ <1 /f$
rfSßHit (X\ KB 11
not stop to consider that in order to
succeed in the mercantile lino It Is
necessary to have many years experi
ence in handling goods, that a fair
profit must be obtained upon every ar
ticle sold, that buying and selling of
merchandise Is a tine art, that knowl
edge of business methods Is Imperative
In order to even hope for success, for
under the most favorable circum
stances according to statistics about
ninety out of every one hundred busi
ness ventures fail. Usually that fact Is
learned after it becomes necessary to
take advantage of the bankruptcy law.
Last week Attorney J. m. Adams
repreesnting the Orovllle Farmers’ Co
operative Association, went to Spokane
and filed a petition of voluntary bank
ruptcy before the federal court. A Spo
kane paper of recent date contained the
following mention of the proceedings;
“The Farmers’ Co-operative Associa
tion of Orovllle, Washington, through
Its president, F. L. Stansbury, and Its
secretary, C. W. Smith, has tiled In the
federal court at Spokane a petition of
voluntary bankruptcy. The petition de
clares that the association’s liabilities
are $7483.36 and Its assets. Including
outstanding accounts are but $6967.66.
"Among the creditors of the aasocla-
tlon are a number of Spokane whole
sale firms, including the B. L. Gordon
company, with a bill of $329; Gray.
Ewing Co., S4O; Powell-Sanders com
pany, S9B; Standard Oil Co.. S2B; and
Carstens Packing Co., $95. The largest
debt to any of the single concerns is
the claim of the Union Warehouse &
Millln 3 Co., of Seattle for $922.
“The petition sets out that the asso
ciation has a bank account of $52.25
and that several banks about the In
land Empire hold notes for various
amounts.”
W. M. Irwin, at present of San
Diago, Cal., spent several days In Oro
vllle during the past week visiting
with his old friend B. A. Williams. Mr.
Irwin Is a booster with a big B. For the
past year he has been commissioner In
charge of the great exposition at San
Diego, which closes on January 1, 1917
after a two years successful run. Prior
to assuming charge of the exposition
Mr. Irwin did much publicity work for
San Diego, work that bore fruit to the
advantage of the city. Formerly Mr. Ir
win was a resident of Spokane, and
A'hile living In that city he had charge
6? a campaign for selling Palouse farm
lands. He met with marvelous success,
as he has a faculty of doing things
along booster lines. He expects to re
turn to Spokane during the National
Apple show, and will pay Orovllle an
other visit at that time, Sunday evening
he exhibited a number of films at the
Orpheura containing views of the San
Diago exposition, giving an entertain
Ing lecture in conjunction the-ewith.
He may be induced to cast his fortunes
witji Orovllle, for a time at least, and
If he does so he will make his presence
fen.
A DISAPPOINTED CANDIDATE.
Tom Corkery, the republican candi
date from the Fifth district, was a dis
appointed man Tuesday. He has been
making a whirlwind campaign of the
county this week, and through an over
sight of those who framed up his Itln
ery failed to bill him at Orovllle where
he was especially anxious to make a
speech. His disappointment was so
great that when he reached Tonasket
and found that he was not to address
the people of Orovllle ho telephoned
up that he would come to Orovllle on
the night train from Wenatchee and
speak in the lobby of the Hotel de
Grubb. Unfortunately the train was
late, the weather disagreeable and only
a tew were at the hotel to greet him on
his arrival, but he received a cordial
reception from those present.
Tuesday was a strenuous day for
Mr. Corkery, as he held metings at
Conconully, Loomis and Tonasket, and
a trip over the roads at this time of the
year In an automobile Is a hardship.
He has had large audiences in every
place he has visited. Kven after the
hard day he had the pluck to make the
trip to Orovllle, showing him to be a
man of energy and resources. Mr. Cor
kery is standing up well under the
strain, and is very much encouraged
by the reception that he is meeting
with everywhere in the district. He has
made two trips through the county
since the primaries and finds a much
stronger sentiment for the entire re
publican ticket prevailing on his sec
ond visit.
Tom Corkery is going to be the next
congressman from the Fifth district,
for he is not only a most likeable chap,
but he has the ability and punch to win
votes and also to make good In the of
fice.
Minutes of the regular meeting of
the town council of the town of Oro
vllle. Washington. October lb. iyib.
Present. Mayor Samson. Councilman
Beale Frlls, Smith and Starrett.
Minutes of the previous meeting read
and approved as read. Mr. Wickersharn
appeared before the board In the mas
ter of adjustment of water rates on I
Edward’s place and Mr. Wickersharn
was asked to Inform Mr. Edwards that
in no event will Mr. Edward s property
be held for more than one r ” ontl J
delinquent water rent. On motion the
council r
A HUSTLER.
COUNC IL MEETING.
*OLL OF HONOR.
ftr
Ba^ r ße'?« d i i Se K O,MI * rades —Geraldine
“““ Kayburn. Olive Reed, Char-
SchL? blnßon ' Wa Sneeve - Edna
winto iber n e , r ’ Luclle Bmlt b. Mardet
Williams. Clara OJerde. Hazel Rlckett
Louise Sanderson, Ruth Snyder, Pearl
ln?“2m Tha * er - James Kltch
ng BUUe Peterson. Sidney Snleve
Smith 1 WllUam Adams. Hector
Urns ' Arthur aw *adler, Gordon Wlll-
Third. Fourth and Fifth Grades:—
Orln Witter. Hettle Gordon, Rose
Hitching. Kathleen William..' Robert
Werley, Derrick Wandoll, Evelyn Bair
Evelyn Carpenter, Carrie Rayburn.’
Lewis Damgard. Edwin Williams,
Ralph Snyder, Eugene Thayer. Ward
Johnston, Norris GJerde, Katie Heid
man, Geraldine Ashby, Elsie Bird,
Maybelle Johnston, Frances Callahan!
Charles Peterson. Ivan Hancock.
Sixth and Seventh Grades:—Elvln
Curtis, Arthur Qjerde, Chester OJerde,
Will Onn, Roy Thayer. Wlltrudo Car
rel. Ervin Curtis. Bills Johnson, Ray
Love, James Payne. Daniel Reeder,
Jewel Hobbs, lona Owen.
Eighth and Fifth Grades:—Angellne
Warren. Frank Hitching. Hadley Spen
cer, Helen Jackson, Florence Dunn,
Gladys Block, Margaret Block, Gladys
McAllister. Grace McAllister, Adell
Hart, Roy Ashby, Harry Taylor, John
Killian, Ervin Wentworth.
High School;— Sylvia Desmond, Cor
rlne Smith, Neva Callahan, Dora Cole,
Daisy Stansberry, Victor Finnlla,
Richard Jackson, James Callahan,
Elbert Carrel.
Third, Fourth and Fifth Grades:—
Old school building—Otto Olasse, Ho
bart Johnson, Gilbert Schlief, Lee
Smith, Frederick Wurty, Carl Boggess,
Mary Beale, Majorie Bragg, Naomi
Bragg, Sadie Cale, Lola Mabood, Zoe
Mahood, Bessie Payne, Mable Schlief,
Jeanette Stoltz, Ada Truax and Mar
garet Zange.
First and Second Grades;— Old
school building—Mabel Boggeas, Jean
ette Holmes, Susie Mahood, Lois Brown
Edna Cale. Arthur Blowers, Bruce
House, David Humes, Dee Maeke, Rich
ard Sterling, Arrle Garner, Wilford
La Crosse and Robert Ludolff.
AN OLD TIMER.
Hon. R. W. Starr, of Pateros, spent
Sunday in Orovllle, and as Mr. Starr Is
one of the democratic war horses of
the county It is a safe guess that he
was on a pussy-footing expedition
among the faithful. Outside of politics
Mr. Starr is a decidedly pleasing and
likeable gentleman. It is not so pleas
ant to know him if you are on che op
posite side of the political fence dur
ing a political campaign, for Mr. Starr
is a keen, shrewd worker, and never
knows when be Is licked. However, we
have always found him playing the
game fair, as fair as politics jan be
played, an I no one knowing him thinks
auy the less of the man on that score,
n I.ether rowing In the same boat or
nor. Mr. Starr is a pioneer of Douglas
and Okanogan counties, and has taken
a i romlnent r.nd active part in public
affairs for years. He is a lawyer by
profession, and of late years has dab
bled in the orchard industry by choice.
He served for four years as register
of the United States land office at Wg
tervllle, stepping into the land
at the time the exigencies of politics
threw the writer out of the same office
Into the cold, cold world. After the
close of bis administration Mr. Starr
moved upon a large tract of land near
the mouth of the Methow, where hq
has since been living. Mr. Starr Is not
as young and sprightly as when we
first knew him, but he Is the same gen
ial gentleman he was a quarter of a
century ago.
A WORTHY CANDIDATE.
Under the head of political an
nouncements will be found among oth
ers the name of Wm. Anderson, repub
lican nominee for county commissioner
from the Second district While the
nomination for commissioner is con
fined to the voters of the district in
which the candidate resides, when it
comes to the general election the
selection is made at the polls by the
voters of the entire county. This may
not be altogether fair, as the residents
of the district generally are better able
to pass upon the qualifications of a
candidate living in their midst than
the electorate of the entire county, yet
that is the law, and candidates for
commissioner from the two districts
called upon to elect this year, must de
pend upon the verdict of the electors
of the entire county.
If the vote of confidence in Mr. An
derson that was cast for him in the
Methow valley, where he lives, is any
criterion of the qualifications of the
candidate, then he is entitled to the
unanimous support of all the people.
The office of commissioner should not
rest wholly upon party vote. Character
and ability should be considered the
requisites of a candidate, and it may
be stated here these requisites Mr An
derson possesses. The business of the
county is in the hands of the 'commis
sioners, and it is not so much that he
t8 a democrat, republican, socialist or
what not as it is that he has the busi
ness qualifications, backed by the
stamina to do right by all section* and
an people. It can be said without fear
OROVILLE, WABHIN ITON, OCTOBER 20, 1916
of successful contradiction that Mr.
Anderson Is so qualified. He is a man
who would go Into office wearing the
tag of no Individual, clique or commu
nity. A free agent, he would be fair and
Just to every locality, would have no
enemies to punish, no friends to re
ward, and In his efforts to practice
economy In the conduct of public af
fairs he would “hew to the line, let
the chips fall where they may."
Mr. Anderson Is not only a success
ful farmer but he is a public spirited
citizen, standing high In the estimation
of his neighbors and those who know
him best. He favors a strictly business
administration of county affairs, and
If elected the people will have a man
as commissioner whose every public
act will be as an open book, doing
nothing that would require conceal
ment or question. If the tax payers are
really in earnest In their desire to see
strict economy practiced in the admin
istration of county government they
will forget politics on the 7th of No
vember when It comes to selecting
county commissioners.
JOHNNIE COMES MARCHING HOME.
l-ast Thursday Joseph H. Hash and
Lawrence Dallam, members of Com
pany B, Second Washington Infantry,
arrived home from American Lake,
looking in the pink of condition and
mighty glad to be out of the service.
The two boys and Jerry Dauber enlist
ed from Orovllle at the call for volun
teers for service on the Mexican bor
der, and at the time of enlistment the
prospects were very favorable tor ac
tive service, as it was supposed that
the administration was in earnest in
the expressed determination to get
Villa dead or alive. The regiment was
ordered to Callxico, on the border, and
put in nearly three months in one of
the hottest places in the United States.
After the regiment was mustered out
Bauber went down to San Francisco
with the avowed purpose of enlisting
in the marine corps. The local boys
were not stuck on army life, although
now, that it is over, they feel well re
paid by the experience. Mr. Dallam
never lost a day from sickness. Mr.
Hash was not so fortunate, as he was
in the hospital for some time. Several
young men enlisted from Okanogan at
the same time, but they did not return
as most of them deserted while at Ca
lexico. The boys are hardly to blame
tor taking French leave the
circumstances, and It Is safe to say
that had there been real, active ser
vice they would not have taken that
step. Under the administration that
the democratic press boasts of the
soldiers were fed on stuff in the main,
that a farmer would hardly feed to
his hogs, and such treatment caused
so much dissatisfaction that the bulk
of the regiment was more eager to be
mustered out than they were to be
mustered In.
Allen Wetzel, of Winthrop, was a
visitor in town Monday. Mr. Wetzel is
a member of the Llttle-Wetzel Cattle
company, and is well known through
out the county, and furthermore, well
liked w ; herever known. The only hand
Mr. Wetzel is taking In politics this
year Is opposition to his brother-in-law
F. J. Baker, whom the democrats have
brought out as representative. Mr.
Wetzel does not believe that the Me
thow should have a candidate for both
Joint senator and representative, be
sides the Methow came out flat-footed,
before primaries, and regardless of
political affiliations, for Mr. Bollnger
for Joint scantor. Mr. Baker made the
statement in a public meeting that it
was the duty of all residents of the
Methow valley, without regard to polit
ical leanings, to secure the nomination
of Mr. Bollnger. advising democrats to
call for republican ballots at the pri
maries, and subsequently support Mr.
Bollnger at the general election. Un
der these circumstances Mr. Wetzel
does not feel that Mr. Baker has acted
fair or Just In permitting his name to
be used. As Mr. Wetzel comes from a
family of life-long democrats there is
nothing political in his opposition to
Mr. Banker.
—
Last week a resident of this place
traveling over the route between Oro
vllle and Loomis reported an auto
mobile wrecked at the foot of the hill
on the grade above the old Dave Smith
place, one of the most dangerous
stretches of roadway in this vicinity
that has never been improved because
the road leads towards Orovllle. In
quiries were made of numerous peo
ple In the hopes of obtaining some In
formation as to the cause of the acci
dent and the Identity of the owner of
the car, but no one seemed to know
anything about the wreck. From par
ties in from Loomis Saturday it was
learned that the car was owned by
Charles Silverthorn, who runs an auto
stage between Loomis and Night
hawk, and the machine was driven
by Frank Stone when it went over the
grade. It appears that Mr, Stone met
a team coming up the grade as he was
going down, and he turned off to the
edge of the road. The bank commenc
ed giving way and Mr. Stone got out
of the car to try and prevent it from
going over the bank. His efforts were
unavailing and the machine rolled
down the hill and was totally wreck-
The following are the Jurors from
this place drawn for the November
term of court: H. R. Shafer, A. L.
Hitching, Lee French, 9. A. DeMerch
ant, N. A. Doyle, S. F. McDonald.
SUGAR BEET GROWING.
For some weeks the Tonasket
Times has been carrying on a cam
paign of education relative to the
growing of sugar beets in the valley
and hill country, with the object of
arousing sufficient Interest to secure
the location of a beet sugar factory
In this vicinity. It Is alleged that the
soil and climate are especially adopt
ed to the growing of the sugar beet,
and that beet growing can be made
profitable to the grower while build
ing up a profitable Industry in the
way of sugar manufacturing. A let
ter from a Tonasket resident says:
“We are making an earnest effort
to interest the people of the county
in this, having the assurance of a
plant providing we can get the proper
support, or encouragement, from the
land owners. It was our idea to get
them digesting the possibilities of the
industry first, and In due time give
the concrete facts and conditions for
obtaining a plant."
Any movement that has for Ita ob
ject the establishment of an Import
ant Industry in this part of the county
should win the aid and encourage
ment, of the people of the valley, es
pecially in the case of a proposition
of this kind, where land can be utili
zed to advantage of the owner, and
1 the industry that the utilization of the
land makes possible Is to give em
ployment to skilled workers, thus
creating a pay roll, and thus estab
lishing a permanent Institution. It
strikes us that the proposition Is so
important that It should appeal to
every land owner In the neighborhood.
In order to make a success of such a
venture it is necessary that a suffi
cient number of farmers pledge the
requisite acreage to the growing of
beets to insure an ample quantity of
the raw material to keep a factory in
operation. Of course that would be
necessary before capital would In
vest in such an enterprise.
The growing of sugar beets re
quires care, much labor and attention,
tyid the man contemplating engaging in
chat line of production should take
time to familiarize himself with the
best methods In order to secure the
best results. It Is not something that
the farmer can take up haphazard
and depend upon chance. In order to
make sugar, a factory must have
beets of the right quality and in suf
ficient quantity to Insure an output
large enough to pay a profit on the
investment. There Is hardly a doubt
but that the growing of sugar beets
can be made a source of handsome In
come to the producer when there Is
a certain market near enough at hand
so that the handling costs are not too
great. It the farmers of this section
are to take up sugar beet growing
seriously, and that Is the only way
they should take It up considering Its
importance, they should secure all
the Information possible. Much val
uabcl Information can be obtained
from the Washington Agricultural ex
periment station, at Pullman, and It
would be a wise idea If those who
have given the subject earnest consid
eration would send to Pullman for
popular bulletin No. 105, which
treats on sugar beet growing, and
such other data as the experimental
station has issued hearing upon the
subject.
AT THE ORPHEUM.
Up to the time of going to press Mr.
Bartell hart not received notice as to
what his films were to be for Saturday
and Sunday evenings at the Orpheum,
but the public can depend upon It that
the pictures will be something unusu
ally good, as they will be the Brady
productions. Go to the Orpheum Sat
urday and Sunday evenings and be
pleasantly surprised.
. -«»»•
SHOCKING ACCIDENT.
Wednesday morning, while working
In the Hoover saw mill, some six miles
west of Tonasket, Jake Walmer In
some manner caught his right arm in
the big saw and the hand was cut off
at the wrist. The unfortunate man was
brought to Orovllle where Dr. Lewis
Iressed the wound.
TRINITY EPISCOPAL CHIRCIL
(Rev. G. H. Severance, Dean.)
There will be no services next Sun
day. Sunday school as usual at 12.
Next services will be held on Sunday
morning, October 29, at IX a. m. There
will be a meeting of the trusiees on
Wednesday evening, October 29, at
8:30 p. m.
FOOD SALE.
The ladles of Trinity Guill will hold
a food sale Saturday, October 21, in
the Orovllle Investment Comnanytr of
fice. There will be a choici selection
of eats to select from,
RUMMAGE SALE.
The Deborah society will hold a sale
of warm clothing, underwear, shoes
and other useful articles Friday and
Saturday November 3rd and 4th, In the
Peerless hotel building.
CATHOLIC SERVICES.
Regular services will be held In the
Catholic church at 10 o'clock a. m.
Sunday, Father Trltz officiating. At
7:30 In the evening there will be a lec
ture and sacred concert.
GEO. A. LEE COMING.
Although we have had no official no
tice of his coming It has been announc
ed In the dally press that Hon. Geo. A.
Lee, of Seattle, and one of the candi
dates for governor before the late pri
maries, will speak In Orovllle next
Thursday evening. Orovllle is fortu
nate in securing such a Speaker as Mr.
Lee. He is classed as one of the best
campaign speakers in the state, and
personally Is a most charming gentle
man. The whole community should
turn out to hear Mr. Lee, as he Is a
logical and forclful talker.
AT THE LYRIC THEATRE.
The attractions at the Ltheatre
this week are decidedly far above the
average photoplays appearing In *-owns
of this size. For Saturday and Sunday
evenings the booking will be Daniel
Frohman’s masterpiece, “Out of the
Drifts,” taken from the fascinating
book of the same title by William 11.
Clifford. The scenes are laid In far
away Switzerland among the Alps and
for picturesque grandeur cannot he ex
celled. It is a tale of eternal enows,
avalanches, dizzy heights a.id yawning
chasms. But the battle of the elements
Is not the only one one In which Mar
guerite Clark, playing the rolo of the
beautiful. Innocent little Elsie, the
Swiss peasant girl, has to contend
with. Her final triumph, through lots
and devotion la a dream of the highest
emotions of man.
For Wednesday and Thursday the
booking Is no less attractive, > at of an
entirely different nature. On these days
“Ben Blair” one ..f the most fascinating
wild, western romances that has ever
teen staged will appear. In "Ben Blair"
vou will see the real cow bo.- ranch
life In all Its genuineness and the
final righting of a lifetime of wrongs
by "Ben” brings a thrill of real delight
to the spectator. In this picture Justice
long blind, awakens and deal* retri m
t.lon to Tom Blair, while at the same
time, rewarding the lonely little boy,
cow gronw to a strong man, la the per
son of “Ben." Here you will see the
tucking horses, the stampeded cattle,
icping and all that goes to make up a
wild, venturesome life of the plains, as
well as some of the roost luxurious
touches of city wealth. Dust’n Farnum
plays “Ben" and the role gives him an
opportunity to bring out all the strong
manly qualities for which he is so re
markable.
On Saturday and Sunday nights the
show starts at 7:15 Instead of 7:30.
This is made necessary on account of
the length of the production, more
than seven thousand feet of film will
be run. Come early.
The announcement of F. R. Hersh
berger, democratic candidate for coun
ty commissioner from the First dis
trict, appears In another column. Also
a letter of endorsement from neigh
bors, signed by republicans, democrats
and socialists, showing the confidence
placed In him by those who have lived
near him tor years, and hence are In a
position to be thoroughly familiar with
his character and qualifications. Mr.
Hershberger is a young man, a suc
cessful farmer, and takes an active in
terest in community affairs. He is a
capable man, strictly upright, and as
a tax payer Is personally interested
In so conducting the county business
that full value should be received for
every dollar of public money spent.
His platform is one that should ap
peal directly to every property
owner and voter. There are no frills on
that platform, but a straight statement
direct from the shoulder. In a nutshell
It Is “a business administration of
of county affairs. Economy and Effi
ciency. Better roads. A square deal to
nil sections of the county. Special fav
ors to none.” It Is a platform without
a weak spot, and what is more it Is not
promulgated for the purpose of "catch
ing files,” but a succinct declaration
as to what Mr. Hershberger stands for
and what he will live up to If elected.
Tonight Is the time of the opening of
the Chas. E. Blackwell & Co’s., hand
some new brick store building at
Riverside. This Includes a free dance
and a free feed for all who attend. One
of the best orchestras In the county
will supply the music, and the eats
will be such that It will be a joy to
partake. A special train leaves Orovllle
iu the evening after the arrival ofthe
train from Spokane, and returning will
leave Riverside between 4 and 5
o’clock Saturday morning. Remember
ing the big crowd and good time that
marked the opening of the Tonasket
store a large representation should
turn out tonight from Orovllle and the
adjacent country. It means a Jolly good
time for all who make the trip.
Fred Hubs the man who held up the
Bridesville hotel and subsequently
went through a section crew near Oro
vllle was tried at Greenwood, B. C.,
last week and sentenced to a term of
five years In the penitentiary. This
county was saved a big bill of costs In
this case by letting the British Colum
bia courts take a whack at Hubs. Our
next sehrlff, Clair Ward, was thanked
by the court for his aid In securing
the evidence that convicted the pris
oner.
E, J. Waldref, the local grain buyer,
has arranged to ship a car load of corn
from this place. This Is the first ship
ment of corn In quantity ever made
from the Okanogan valley. Mr. Chap
man, the grain buyer, pronounced It
of first class quality.
DELINQUENT SALE NOTICE.
East Orovllle Orchards Company, a cor
poration, location principal place o( busi
ness, First National Bank building, Oro
vllle, Washington.
NOTICE —There Is delinquent upon the
following described stock, on account of
an assessment levied on the 22nd day of
March, 1216, the amount set opposite the
names of the respective stockholders fol
lowing:
Melhow Cattle Company, a corporation.
No. Certificate, iu, No. Shares, 50; Am't.
$1250.00. Methow Cattle Company, a corpo
ration, *No. Certificate U; No. Shares. 50;
Ain't. 11230.00. And, In accordance with
the law and the by-laws of the blast Oro
vllle Orchards Company, a corporation,
and In accordance with the resolutions of
the board of trustees of said corporation,
made on the 22nd day of March, 1216, so
many shares of stock above described as
may be necessary, will be sold at public
auction at the Town Hall In Orovllle,
Washington, on the 21st day of Novetnbei
1216, at the hour of 2 o clock p. m., of
said day to pay said delinquent assess
ment thereon, together with the coats of
advertising and expenses of sale.
8. B. STAKRETT, Jr.
Secretary of the East Orovllle Orchards
Company, a corporation.
No. 3207.
SUMMONS FOR PUBLICATION IN
FORECLOSURE OF TAX LIEN.
lu the Superior Court of the State of
Washington, for Okanogan county.
Union Title and Trust Company, a Cor
poration. plaintiff.
vs.
M. H. Bowman, and all persons unknown,
if any, having or claiming to have an In
terest In and to the real property herein
after described, defendants. Summons for
publication lu Foreclosure of Tax Lien.
The State of Washington to M. R. Bow
man, and all persons unknown, If any,
having or claiming lu have an Interest In
and to the real properly hereinafter des
cribed;
You and each of you are hereby notified
that Union Title and Trust Company, a
corporation, is the holder of Certificate of
Delinquency numbered 477, issued on the
24th day of February, 1313, by the county
of Okanogan, State of Washington, for the
amount of Nineteen and ten one hun
dred dollars, 1319.10) the same being the
amount then due and delinquent for taxes
for the year 1909 together with penalty.
Interest and costs thereon, upon real prop
erty assessed to you and of which you are
the owner or reputed owner, situated In
said county, and particularly bounded anu
described as follows, to-wlt- The south
east quarter of the northeast quarter
(SEV4NEV4); the southwest quarter of the
northeast quarter (SWI4NEI4); the south
east quarter of the northwest quarter
(SEi4NWI4) the southwest quarter of the
northwest quarter (SWI4NWI4) of section
thirty two t32) township thirty eight (38)
range thirty one (31), and upon which It
has paid taxes assessed against said prop
erty as follows:
Tax
Year's Tax Date Paid Rec't. No. Amt.
1910 February 24, 1913 4341 28.12
1911 February 24, 1913 8364 23.81
1913 June 17, 1914 2662 18.40
1914 June.... 17 1916 3146 16.83
1916 July.... 12, 1916 3933 16.38
Total amount of taxes pa’rt sines
date of certificate of delinquency 368.26
all of said amounts bearing Interest at the
rate of fifteen per cent, per annum: and
you are further notified that It will apply
to the Superior Court of the State of
Warhlngton, in and for said county, for a
judgment foreclosing its lien against the
property hereinbefore mentioned, and you
are hereby summoned to appear within
sixty days after the date of the first pub
lication of this summons, exclusive of the
day of said first publication, and defend
this action or pay the amount due, to
gether with costs: and In case of your
failure to do so judgment will be rendered
foreclosing the lien for said certificate of
delinquency, taxes, penalty, Interest and
costs against the lands and premises here
inbefore mentioned. Date of first publica
tion October 20, 1916.
Any pleading or process may be served
upon the undersigned at the address here
after mentioned.
CHAS. A. JOHNSON,
Plaintiff's Attorney.
P. O. Address, Okanogan, County of Oka
nogan. Washington.
First publication Oct. 20, 1916, last pub
lication November 24, 1916.
No. 3206
SUMMONS FOR PUBLICATION IN
FORECLOSURE OF TAX LIEN.
In the Superior Court of the State of
Washington, for Okanogan county.
Union Title and Trust Company, a corpo
latlon Plaintiff
vs.
Geo. Moore and all persons unknown, If
any, having or claiming to have an In
terest In and to the real property heriln
after described. Defendants. Summons for
publication In foreclosure of tax lien
The State of Washington to Geo. Moore
and all persons unknown If any, having
or claiming to have an Interest In and to
the real property hereinafter described:
You and each of you are h neby notified
that Union Title and Trust Company, a
corporation is the holder of corUllcato of
delinquency numbered OKI, Issued on tho
27th day of June, 1914, by toe county »f
Okanogan, State of Washington, for Ihe
amount of fifty one and thlr*v-four hun
dredths dollars ($51.34) the same being the
amount then due and delin',uert (or taxes
for .he years 1911, 1912, I II ; together with
penalty. Interest and costs thereon, upon
real property assessed to you and of which
you are the owner or reputed owner, sit
uated In said county and partlcu ai lj
hounded and described as follows, to-wlt.
The northeast quarter of tho southeast
quarter (NEViSE% of section thirty four.
(34); the cast half of the southwest quar
ter and the northwest quarter
of the southwest quarter (NWViSW I ,*) of
section thirty five (85): In township thirty
six (36) north, range twenty eight (28) B.
W. M., and upon which it has pal dtaxes
assessed against said property as follows:
Tax
Year’sTax Date Paid Rec't. No. Amount
1914 June 17, 1915 3147 17.64
1915 July 12. 1916 3936 18.10
Total amount of taxes paid since
date of certificate of delinquency $36.74
all of said amounts bearing Interest at the
rate of fifteen per cent, per annum; and
you are further notified that It will apply
to the Superior Court of the State of
Washington, In and for said coutny, for a
judgment foreclosing Its lien against the
property hereinbefore mentioned, and you
are hereby summoned to appear within
sixty days after the date of the first pub
lication of this summons, exclusive of the
day of said first publication and defend
this action or pay the amount due, to
gether with costs; and In case of your fail
ure to do so, Judgment will be rendered
foreclosing the lien for said certificate of
delinquency, taxes, penalty, Interest and
costs, against the lands and premises
hereinbefore mentioned. Date of first pub
lication October 20, 1916.
Any pleading or process may be served
upon the undersigned at the address here
after mentioned.
CHAS . A. JOHNSON.
Plaintiff's Attorney.
P. O. Address, Okanogan, county of
Okanogan. Washington.
First publication Oct. 20, 1916, last publi
cation November 24, 1910.
NOTICE TO CREDITORS.
In the superior court of the Stats of
Washington, for Okanogan county. In pro
bate. Notice to creditors to file claims.
In the matter of the estate of E. C.
Willard, deceased.
Notice la hereby given that letters ad
ministrator on the estate of B. C. Willard
deceased, were granted to the undersigned
on the 29th day of August 1916 by the said
Superior Court.
All persons having claims against said
estate, are required to present them with
the necessary vouchers to me at Forde A
Ford's store at Loomis, Washington,
within one vear after date of this notice
or they shall be forever barred.
Dated at Loomis, Wash., this Ith dav
of October 19X5.
WM. J. FORD, Administrator.
91.50 PBR TSAR
