VOTE AND WORK AGAIKST ALL REFERENDUM MEASURES
Education
Organization
Emancipation
VOL. XXV.
KILLS BEST IN
DIRECT PRIMARY
Referendum Measure No. 5, or
Whitney Election Bill, Against
Popular Government
By JAMES E. BRADFORD
This is known as "Whitney's Cau
cus Convention Bill," and will, in ef
fect, kill all the best things in the
direct primary system, because:
(1) It restores the old caucus and
convention systems, controlled by
ambitious candidates, ward heelers,
bosses and other vicious manipulators,
who in turn are supported and paid
out of "slush funds" furnished by pub
lic service corporations and other
agencies of special privilege and graft.
(2) It compels the candidate to
swear that, if nominated, he will not
withdraw unless the party committee
and political machine permit him;
that he accept the party platform as
made by the "hand-picked" party con
vention, which grows out of the May
caucus and county conventions. This
will prevent withdrawals, and good
men on different tickets from uniting
to defeat a bad man on some other
ticket; under this law party machines,
bossism and all the train of evils that
usually follow them will flourish like
the green bay trees.
(3) It puts in the "hand-picked"
party committee the supreme power
of the political dictator and boss.
(4) By a nasty and vicious "joker"
in section 8 of the bill, the right to
paste or write in names on your ballot
will be taken away, and this will pre
vent the voters from combining on an
independent candidate.
(5) The real purpose and intent of
the entire act is to build up, stronger
than ever, the old Tammany party
idea, and to stem or destroy the rising
tide of non-partisanship. It will turn
the hands of progress back many
years. The independent votes is in
creasing by leaps and bounds —the
tendency is towards independent
thinking and its full and free expres
sion. The people of this state, sev
eral years ago, adopted the basic non
partisan idea, and we still use it in
every school and port district in the
state; our entire judicial system, in
cluding the Superior and Supreme
Court judges, is under it, and the cities
and towns, including all the big cities,
have adopted it. This measure strikes
a fatal blow at the very heart of non
partisanshlp and independence in poli
tics. It will bring back from the po
litical junk heap the rusty old party
••machine," the party "rings," "bosses,"
ward heelers" and the "slush funds"
contributed by vested interests and
,it her special privileged grabbers, and
all the political evils and crimes of a
Tammany domination and sway. If
you don't want all these ghastly relics
snatched from the tomb of the past,
then register and go to work. "Kvery
honest and patriotic citizen should
rote" against this measure.
•BILLY" WILSON IN
SEATTLE TONIGHT
Labor's representative in the presi
dent's cabinet, Secretary of Labor
Wm. B. Wilson, speaks tonight in Se
ville, and undoubtedly members of
local unions will avail themselves of
the privilege to hear him. Secretary
Wilson has been for many years a
member of the United Mine Workers
of America, served as national secre
tary of that great body, and was for
several terms a member of the lower
house of congress from Pennsylvania.
A The Department of Labor was formed,
' -Hilly" Wilson, as he is affectionately
called, was named the first secretary
by President Wilson, and is regarded
as one of the big men in national
affairs.
Because of his prominence in the
trade union movement he will be en
* teftalned while in Seattle by trade
* unionists and arrangements liave been
completed for a dinner in his honor,
admittance to which will be a union
' E P, Marsh, president of the State
• Federation of Labor, will act as chair
lirul of the night meeting, and Presi
dent Proctor of the Seattle Central
Labor Council, will be toastmsater at
the banquet.
Trunks, Bags, Repairing — Everett
Trunk Factory. 2815 Rockefeller.
TRADES
COUNCIL
NEWS
Wednesday, October 18
The Trades Council was called to
order at 8 p. m. by Vice President
Dieterle.
John Zeller, from the Machinists,
was seated as delegate to fill the
vacancy made by the retirement of
Frank O'Brien.
Invitation from Secretary Duncan of
the Seattle Labor Council to attend
the reception of Secretary of Labor
Wilson was received. Mr. Wilson will
address the people of Seattle tonight.
Reports of Unions
Musicians —Reported one initiation
and a good attendance.
Painters —One meeting in each
month hereafter will be devoted to
social and educational matters.
Teamsters —Good meeting.
Lathers —Good meeting. »
Shingle Weavers —These unionists
report some progress and are en
couraged to increase their efforts in
their contention with the employers.
The strike conditions look fine and
one cause of encouragement is the in
competency of a majority of the non
unionists working in some of the
mills. The reports from the several
locals in the state show a substantial
gain.
After a general discussion of several
subjects of interest to the labor move
ment the Council adjourned.
W. J. FORTSON
The following resolutions were
passed by Molders' Union No. 311, of
Kverett:
"Whereas, Brother W. J. Fortson
has been nominated representative of
the Forty-ninth district of Snohomish
County, Washington, by the socialist
party; and
"Whereas, He has for twenty-four
years been a stanch union man,
"Resolved, That we, members of No.
311, endorse his candidacy.
"Further resolved, That we recom
mend him to all union men in this
county as a man and brother worthy
of their support.
"MOLDERS' UNION NO. 311."
A FINE HERD
About 110 strikebreakers from Ta
coma came here to load a lumber ship.
They were housed in the Bay View
hotel. The Cooks and Waiters in that
hostelry refused to serve them, so the
herders were compelled to take them
to a mill bull pen for their feed. If
there are any disinterested citizens in
Kverett, they should size up this
bunch. They would make "fine" citi
zens. Some of them would look better
in the stripes they once wore.
Thomas N. Swale, who was elected
lo the last legislature and unseated by
the reactionary gang of conspirators
who controlled that body, and who is
now a candidate for representative on
the republican ticket, has shown the
while feather. During Swale's candi
dacy two years ago he claimed ad
vocacy of the interests of all the peo
ple. Now he has become a "tin bull"
and proposes to become the repre
sentative of a part of the people and
ian enemy to the rest. He allowed the
'open shop mill bosses to pull the wool
I over his eyes. If ttlis is not true. It is
up lo Swale to show that it is not.
Painters Union No. 339 will have a
social session at their hall In the
Labor Temple next Tuesday night.
Every member is requested to attend.
That Independent Table Supply Is a
live wire. Good goods, right prices
and courteous treatment of patrons.
Born —To the wife of Frank Turk,
Tuesday morning, October 17th, a girl.
That girl is now only a stripper, but
will become a clgarmaker bye-and-bye.
Sec Valeska Suratt in "The Straight
Way" at the Star Sunday and Monday
It is a good photoplay.
and the Constitutional Amendment
The Labor Journal
VOTE AND WORK AGAINST
REFERENDUM MEASURES Nos. 3 and 4 Render useless the Initiative, Referendum and Recall
1. By requiring all persons both in the city and country districts to sign all petitions in the
registration offices and before a registration officer.
2. Making it a gross misdemeanor for anyone to solicit or attempt to induce anyone to sign a
petition within 100 feet of the entrance to a registration office.
FOR Referendum Measure No. 3 _
AGAINST Referendum Measure No. 3 X|
FOR Referendum Measure No. 4
AGAINST Referendum Measure No. 4 X
REFERENDUM MEASURE No. s—Whitney Convention Bill—Destroys Direct Primary by—
1. Restoring the caucus-primary-convention, paid for by politicians, and compelling candidates
whose names appear on the ballot to swear to support the platform made by the machine controlled
convention.
2. By eliminating independent candidates by means of a "joker."
3. Legalizing the power of the "hand picking" executive committees.
FOR Referendum Measure No. 5
AGAINST Referendum Measure No. 5 Xj
REFERENDUM MEASURE No. 6—Anti-Picketing Bill—Destroys labor unions by—
1. Making unlawful the publication of any facts concerning any labor difficulty. Under this
law it would be a crime for any person to even carry a newspaper anywhere containing a statement of
facts about any labor trouble.
2. Preventing the use of pickets to inform the public of the unfair attitude of an employer.
(Note —Argument FOR this measure in state pamphlet is by Employers' Association.)
FOR Referendum Measure No. 6
AGAINST Referendum Measure No. 6 X
REFERENDUM MEASURE No. 7—Certificate of Public Necessity and Convenience:
1. Prohibits any new public utility either privately or publicly owned unless State Public Service
Commission consents to it on the grounds of public necessity of convenience.
2. Prohibits extensions of Municipally owned public utilities—water, gas, electric, steam-heating
plants, street railways, interurban railways, except on consent of Public Service Commission. (Note
—Telephone companies are omitted. Argument for this measure in state pamphlets is by Northwest
Electric Light & Power Association.)
FOR Referendum Measure No. 7
AGAINST Referendum Measure No. 7 X
REFERENDUM MEASURE No. B—Port Bill:
This measure thwarts the effort of the people of the Seattle Port District to develop publicly owned
'and operated harbor terminals for access to cheap water transportation to compete with state-owned
and dominion-aided ports of San Francisco and Vancouver.
By preventing, in the interest of private dock and warehouse owners, further improvement of the
port for the benefit of producers—of grain, fruit, lumber, fish, etc.—and of consumers of both city and
Estate—private profit opposed to general welfare.
By adding to the Port Commission one official elected by the city alone and three officials elected
by the county for entirely different purposes—a denial of direct responsibility to the people in the
management of their public port utilities.
I 1
FOR Referendum Measure No. 8
AGAINST Referendum Measure No. 8 X[
REFERENDUM MEASURE No. 9—Budget Bill:
This Budget Bill prohibits the temporary use or transfer of all idle public moneys from one fund
to another and compels cities and towns and all other municipal corporations to borrow money and go
on a warrant basis in all unforeseen cases not provided for in the annual budget.
This bill will and the Renick Bill has cost the people thousands of dollars in interest on borrowed
money while they have millions lying idle.
Senate Bill No. 98 permits the state to use its idle moneys, but the foregoing bills deny the same
right to all municipal corporations.
FOR Referendum Measure No. 9
AGAINST Referendum Measure No. 9 [x]
PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO THE CONSTITUTION—Providing Property Qualification for
Voters:
This proposed amendment will deprive 75 per cent of the women and 40 per cent of the men
voters of the state of the right to vote on any measure providing for the raising or expenditure of public
funds.
It is a reversion to the absurd laws of colonial days, and unthinkable at the present time except
by those privileged interests which are attempting at all times to wrest from the people their power.
FOR Constitutional Amendment
AGAINST Constitutional Amendment X ]
MASS MEETING!
MONDAY, October 23rd, at 8 o'clock P. M.
LIBERTY HALL
fUHear JAMES E. BRADFORD, Progressive Candi
-9 ; I date for Governor, discuss the various Referendum
measures. Held under the auspices of the Everett
I Trades Council.
THE OFFICIAL PAPER OF THE
DEVOTED TO THE INTEREST
EVERETT. WASH., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1916
All Referendum Measures and
the Constitutional Amendment
EVERETT TRADES COUNCIL.
OF ORGANIZED LABOR.
APPARENTLY
"RAILROADED"
All of you have heard of the dyna
mite explosion on Market street, San
j Francisco, during that city's prepared
( ness day parade. Four men and one
woman are accused of complicity in
that tragic affair.
On September 23 the first of the
four to be tried —Warren K. Billings,
past president of the San Francisco
Hoot and Shoe Workers—was found
guilty.
i "This was in spite of the fact that
the usual 'labor conspiracy' evidence
j was ruled out of order by the court.
After that, we thought, that the evi
dence would be listened to. That was
all we wanted. We proved by eye
witnesses, supported by actual photo
graphic evidence, that our men were
far from the scene of the explosion
and could have had nothing to do with
it. The prosecution's own witnesses
helped us, by swearing to have seen
Billings in THREE DIFFERENT
! PLACES AT THE SAME TIME, and
the state's star witness, a known dope
fiend, was confronted on the stand by
four men to whom he had boasted of
'the money he expected to receive as
the result of his testimony.
"We confidently thought that to
have thus proven our man innocent
would settle the case. And it went to
the jury. The whole city, having
i watched the flimsy prosecution in the
newspapers, expected an acquittal as
a mere matter of course.
I "But we have had to wake up from
'that dream of 'justice.' This is a case
of the labor unions in the hands of
i heir enemies. And a professional
jury, composed of courthouse hangers
on—the only kind we were allowed to
hay convicted Warren K. Bil
lings.
"After the conviction, we discovered
(two EYE-WITNESSES TO THE
BOMB EXPLOSION that the district
attorney had hidden until it was too
late. One of these had been fooled
into thinking he was to testify, and I
the other had been SHIPPED OUT
joF TOWN BY THE POLICE BE
CAUBE HE HAD SEEN AND
j TALKED TO THE MAN WHO SET
OFF THE BOMB, and KNEW THAT
IT WAS NOT WARREN K. BIL
IINGS."
The International Workers' Defense
Leage asks financial aid to save Bil
lings and the four other defendants
from professional jury murder.
If any or all the defendants charged
With the explosion of dynamite during
the preparedness parade in San Fran
cisco be found guilty, after fair trial,
the death penalty should be inflicted,
but if there is conspiracy to "railroad '
these persons, though they are accused j
of an atrocious crime, every effort
should be made to save them
The appeal for aid is signed by
Henry Hazelsteln, secretary of the
Defense League, ,vOO Cole street, San
Francisco. The treasurer, Robert
Minor, has his office at Room L'lo
Russ Building, San Francisco.
THE LONGSHORE SITUATION
"We have called the strike off for
the purpose of permitting the employ
ers to carry out the terms of a set
tlement mutually agreed upon and
the nature of which we are pledged
not to divulge." said J. A. Madsen.
secretary of the Pacific Coast District
of the international Longshoremen's
Association. "The men are now await
ing notification from the employers to
return to work. This is all the In
formation we are at liberty to give
out
ANOTHER SHORT STRIKE
San Francisco, Oct. 16.—Operations!
were resumed today at the San Fran
cisco and Alameda plants of the Union
works and Moore &• 'Scott shipyards
in Oakland, when 20(10 men who went
OH strike Friday returned to work.
Differences between local boiler
, makers and the Shipfilters' I'nion re
sulted in suspension of work. After
conferences with Mayor Rolph the
shipwrights, caulkers and shipfitters,
heretofore independent organizations,
.agreed to affiliate with the American
Federation of Labor.
When you vote on November 7 com
mence by marking your ballot against
the seven referendum measures and
stttutional amendment. Think
a the candidates afterward.
In Organization
Lies the Hope
of Labor
DESTROYS FREE
SPEECH; RIGHT
OF ASSEMBALGE
Referendum Measure No. 6, or
Anti-Piciceting Law, Denounced
as Being Vicious Invasion of
Rights of Citizens—Restores
Old Thumbscrew Methods
Progressive Candidate for Governor.
This measure makes it a crime for
any person to advertise or call atten
tion to any dispute between labor and
capital—
(a) By standing or moving about
on any "sidewalk, street, public place
or private property, in front of or
within 500 feet of place" of business.
(b) By openly carrying on any
"sidewalk, street, public place or pri
vate property, any banner, sign, trans
parency, writing or printing."
This law should be killed, because —
(li It destroys free speech, action
and the right of assemblage, and is
one of the most drastic and unfair
laws ever drafted: it prohibits picket
ing anywhere in this state.
(2) It makes it a crime for labor
to put up a sign or notice in any
labor temple to inform even its own
members of a labor dispute, or any
where on their own private property,
or to be In a parade with a banner,
showing such dispute, whether in the
same city or 400 miles away in the
state.
(3) It makes crimes of those acts
which at common law are lawful when
done in a peaceful way.
(4) It seeks to restore the old
thumbscrew methods to labor dis
putes; it drags from the grave of the
"dark ages" rude and silly ideas and
jams them down the throat of modern
society.
(5) It will not prevent what its
authors desire, namely, decrease
in labor troubles and violence. Kor
many years Colorado and West Vir
ginia had anti-picketing laws, and yet
the worst labor troubles have oc
curred there. Recall how women and
little children were shot down like
dogs at Ludlow,
(6 i It is made a crime for laboring
men to call public attention to a labor
dispute, but the employer may kick
him out of his job because he belongs
to a union and prevent him from get
ting another one.
(7) It deprives labor and others
of important rights, and is so harsh
that they may be fined or sent to the
state prison.
i (S) It will stamp upon labor in this
| state the badge of crime for doing
i those things which are lawful under
section 20 of the federal Clayton anti
trust law, approved by President Wil
son, and which reads:
"No person or persons shall he pro
hibited, whether singly i>r in concert,
from terminating any relation of em
ployment, or from ceasing to perform
any work or labor, or from workmen
advising or persuading others by
peaceful means so to do; or from at
tending at any place where such per
son or persons may lawfully be for
communicating information, or from
peacefully persuading any person to
work or to abstain from working."
j (Hi It is one of the most unjust,
lun-American and infamous laws ever
born in the sordid mind of greed and
human selfishness Wild and heart
ies scapital produced It, and the Em
ployers' Association of Washington Is
! back of it.
I The last republican legislature
passed this ami picketing bill, and
[ Governor Lister, of the democratic
party, approved it. and both the re
j publican and democratic sta'e plat
forms have endorsed it The r -pub-
Tcan candidate stands on the r. pub-
Illcan platform, and Governor Lister
on the democratic plat form and his
| own record 1 opposed this bill before
the legislature and before the people,
signed the petition to refer it, and
shall work and vote against it. 1 have
been out on the firing line, and in the
entire campaign against this bill from
the very beginning. Fight only for
those who fight for you and your
rights. Work and vote against this
bill.
Re careful about your vote. DON'T
vote for the seven referendum meas
ures—vote them.
and rock salt
By JAMES E. BRADFORD
No. 88
