fr v .If
mm.
VOMJMR XVIII.
DONIPHAN, MISSOURI, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1916.
NUMilKK 51.
f 'ROUND ABOUTTHE STATE. t
4) - w
J Cleaned from ExchangesMade by the Shears, $
5 " the Pencil and the Paste PotSome .OrlgU., g
J : , nal. Some Credited, and Some Stolen, J
3 but Nearly All Interesting Reading. '
. . . ' j 1 a . j : t - .
f labor Records Missourfs Senatorial Canaiaie
s
Automobile thieves are operat
ing at Caruthersville. "
A rook road ia being built from
Sikeston Id Brown's Spur. .
Fire recently partly destroyed
the bigh school building at Oran.
' Many cattle are being shipped
Into Sootj county to be fed this
fall and winter.
The Marshal at Caruthereville
captured 18 orap Bhoolere one
night last week. ...
i t The Southeast Missouri Teaoh-
! -- era Association will be held at
Cape Girardeau next month.
A traffic- oidinanoe has been
enacted at Caruthereville to put
a stop to automobile speeding. .
The J. S. Strum saw mill at
Hay li was destroyed by fire sev
eral days ago, entailing a loss of
$3,000.
The United Baptist Association
" which was organized 100 yearB
ago, met at Roselle, Madison
county, last week.
Otto Cox, of Bloomfield receiv
ed a broken arm while cranking
an automobile at Cape Girardeau
one day last week.
The civil engineering depart
ment of the third diBtrlot of the
Frisco railrond has been moved
from Chaffee to Memphis.
B. P. Eaton sustained the toss
of a finger last week while ope
rating an ensilage cutter at his
home near Cape Girardeau.
An unidentified man was found
deud beside the railrord track
near Bell City a few days ago,
evidently killed by a train.
The Sikeston high school de
feated the Cape Girardeau high
echool in a football game on the
, 7iti ioBt. by a score of C2 to 0.
Jesse Watts McCollum, the old
est citizen of Dexter, died last
week. lie was 84 years of age
and an ex-Confederate soldier.
.Tlie electric-light plant at Dex
ter was closed October 1, and
' electrio service at Dexter i9 now
received from the Poplar Bluff
plant.
Lane Roberts, of the Cape.was
seriously injured on day last week
when an automobile he was driv
ing overturned pinning him un
v derneath.
Town Marshal Turner, of Al
len ville, Cape county, while fish
ing one day recently, oaught a
,turtle which weighed 102 pounds.
Some turtle and lots of soup,
Herman 8oehlig, of Jackson,
had his right arm and side so
badly scalded that the flesh peel
ed off, when a tub of boiling wa
ter felt on him one day the past
" week. : . ,
John Evans, a young man liv
ing near Poplar Bluff, died a few
days ago from injuries sustained
a short time before when a large
limb fell from a tree and struck
' him on the head. '
Threshing the rioe crop on the
Cape Girardeau hopes to seoure
the location of a $30,000 Carne
gie library, and the city council
at a recent meeting voted a one
mill tax to support the proposi
tion.' " -; -'' "' ..J'..
twenty-five thousand dollars
will be spent in constructing two
roads in .Taney county, one to
run from Hollister to the Arkan
sas state line and the other from
Hollister to Branson.
Louis Lawyer was badly injur
ed one day last week at Poplar
Bluff when the horse be was
driving ran away overturning the
buggy. He should have been
driving an automobile.v
Lester Housman, aged 16, for
merlv a Cane Girardeau bov.who
ran away from dome not long ago
and joined the Canadian army,
lias gained his freedom and has
returned to his parents.
Miss Zeta Farrar, who lives at
Renfro, sustained a painful and
dipagreeable wound in her right
leg, one day last week, when a
revolver she was handling was
accidentally discharged.
Charles Grau. a farmer living
in Stoddard oounty, has 190 col
onies of bees on his farm. This
year he sold 1800pounds of honey
at Poplar Bluff and has 3000 more
pound at his farm to sell.
A four-year ol3on"of Y. FIT
Crane, of Poplar Bluffrecently
set fire to the Crane residence
while playing with matches. The
residence and an adjoining build
ing were destroyed causing a loss
of JO.000. ' , J .
' Malinda Booth, a 10-year old
orphan girl of Poplar Bluff, said
to be very tough and incorrigi
ble, has been placed in the girls
industrial home at Chillicolhe,
where an effort will be made to
make a good, respeotable woman
oi her.
Wvller Lancaster died at Bell
City a few days ago from knife
wounds inflicted by Frank Borris.
Lancaster was going homo from
church when attacked, and it is
said Borris mistook him for an
other vounff man of whom he
m - v
was madly jealous.
The October term of circuit
court convened the first Monday.
Therp is over 200 cases on the
docket, 58 of which were divorce
oases.. There are also a large
number of special oases regard
ing ditches that are not number
ed on the docket as they are oon
solidated. ' .
'." W. M. Rankin, a Tanner living
near Hayti, owns three hows and
a cream separator, and during
the summer months has averaged
about 90 pounds of butter per
month which he sold for 35 cents
a pound, having enough left for
home consumption. The cows
are Grades and Mr. Rankin be
lieves it would pay a person who
keeps three oows or more on his
place to also have a separator..
The Ctarkton Gazette says that
UU IUQ
r at . . . . . 1 J . .1
Geo. Beeley Tarra in ButleriUY.r .' . .
. . .1 ' i. t. .. nioklne cotton on ine ttev. J. u.
COUBIV Biarieu iaB wee, it ii -
.. . . - ,., ' Lonir place recently. They were
esumaiea tno crup wm vcrji , , , , , , m
90 bushels to the acre and, there , ' ! t , " '
is a large aoreage.
The New Era Advanoe reports
that a train of fifteen covered
wagons passed through (hat town
recently on their way to the Ar
kausas Ozarks to find homes in
that beautiful country. ,
pounds; Lurd Lloyd, 499 poxnde;
John WbiUaker, 455 pounds;
Steve Lloyd, 381 pounds, and
Andv Loner. 200 poui d. The
five picked a total of 2049 pounds,
ah or(t ' that Andv Ion?
- . . . ' : r
would have picked more but that j
L v ; ; ; ;
, 4
i
. It. , '! i-i&t 1
. . -4'- i ..it'i7"x
SENATOR TAMES A. REED
of Kansas City, Mo, Democratic Candidate for Re-election, Lawyer,
statesman ana menu oi wuui.
nl.' l '"'.i.U.i, Cntintv Pnnnllnr of TacksOII
County, he rendered an opinion, that the county court could require
that all public printing bear the union label, and, as Mayor of Kan
sas City, he did require that all of the printing of the city be done
by union labor. , - ' v ' . .
In the past six years he hasten the champion of the laboring
man in the United States Senate . . '
Defense of the American Federation of Labor.
"ttrpnzpotrtiPe 3?'' Iifrxrm
and the American federation oi mv Ky'r' Mr rw.Vr.
made by the Republican Senators. .He aga m de I V Gapers
and the American reaeranon vi ' - -
National Association of Manufacturers Lobby.
.. i a Maniifartnrf'ra. an orcaniza-
me . . . , th uhhv which
f ion whicli always iouehi mwi, " -- -
ZS Washington dSring the Republican administration. Senator
""c . . ? t .1.. t n uit nir ronimtttee. was ap-
-C7,j . . .i.:- ftnmev for the .invcstiiiatins committee which
SSvrthta intton from the halls of' Congress. Dickey a
member of this organization. . ,
Railroads' Workmen's Compensation bin.
. . .:-.:,.., rit tViia rnnrtrv Imd been endeavor-
ror years jaoororgdiiitauuiiaw rf ----
ins to secure a Workmen's Compensation act which would protect
K5. the "ambulance i'ZT
secure for them a just sum tor tnc uauics w, ou"""7 '
secure ivi ii j --ii-!. .aw the "handwritinc on
the aiscnarge oi men uunn. ..v ..---r . - ,
the wall," and had their representatives introduce a Workmen t Com-
pensation bill, wnicn, aixnougu : i,..
ed was in fact a bill which took away from labor most of the rights
they had under the common law ad gave them no additional rights,
wicy it ., . . . . i.ui C-,tnr 1?aH Hrhatirl this tneas-
it wasa won ana sncep iw"i'8. r":: : .
ii j,i cn that it would be a beneht to labor
and not a detriment. As the result of his fight, the scheme of rail
roads and corporations was exposed and the bill was defeated.
Abolition oi uag kuw.
l i. k.. Dnnuvrli anil Tuft forbiddinc eovern-
ine cair iuib iduvv. vj , o
fi-.. ..;fior,iner rnnrrrraa or belonffinc to labor
unions was nullified by Congress at the instance of Senator Reed;
,. .' wonvict iaoor. '
' The bill to prevent Competition between free labor and convict
labor by preventing interstate shipments of convict-made goods
hlv hv Senator Reed's committee and ardently.
supported by him on the floor of the 'Senate. ' : ! '
. .... rralr Strilco f .
In May, 1918, the condition of the miners at Paint Creek, W..
Va became so intolerable that a strike was called,. .The mine own
ers imported a gang'.of detectives,' thugs, scabs and professional
nehters and encamped them near the strikers. As a result there
was continual warfare and the Governor of the state called out the
militia and declared martial law. The strikers were tried and im
prisoned by a military court martial, but were refused trial by jury
Senator Reed was one of the chief backers of a resolution in the
Senate calling for an investigation of these conditions. -
Preventing Competition of Soldiers With Civilians.
- . . . M nrlT.ni.fl mnairianft of thp tfountrv had
been endeavoring to have legislation enacted which "would prevent
the competition of army , musicians with civilians, the reason for
tnis contention living " - -
oavroll. supported by taxes of the people, and when these govern-
ment-paid employes nirea unuiKi ....v
.. h rmnlnvmrnt of civilian musicians Who
iney tnercuy umtmtu ... - ...
received no pay from the government. Senator Reed succeeded in
eettine through an act which prevented competition of army men
ana civilian "j
tUu r Wrif Af Tnlnnrtion
ITCVCnuui nu j - ,
. r j r..-..M.nf l in fncrtincr in fn llavtOfl AntU
senator Keea was iun ..
i . -t. :.:- hMh -lr1anxt ftiat the labor of human
trUSt ACl, inc uioYioiuua " .. . 7 i it j
beintrs is not an article of commerce, which exempted labor and
farm organizations from the terms of the anti-trust laws, which
prohibited the abuse of the writ of injunction, and guaranteed trial
bv iury in contempt cases. -
' J . tip.i.l. C.i..
Stop niwn oiciu.
WALTER S. DICKEY of Kansas Citv. Mo..
Republican Nominee for United States Senate Millionaire Sewer
ripe Manutacturcr ana unemy oi LaDor.
v.
Fought Labor.
Mr. Dickey has not employed Union Labor in any of his fac
tories for the past ten years. At one time he had union labor in his
shops under a verbal agreement, but at the end of one year he re
fused to continue the agreement and turning out the union men he
employed scab labor throughout.
!MeinbLoLlIational Association of Manufacturers.
Mr. Dickey is a member of the Nation!iTssrrt-rTttTOTr-CTm-
facturers, which organization has always fought labor and was
driven from the halls of Congress because it maintained Colonel
Mulhall and his illegal lobby.
" Blacklisted by Labor.
' Mr. Dickey has been blacklisted by the Carpenters' Union of
Kansas City.
Member of Employers' Association.
Mr. Dickey is a member of the Employers' Association of Kan
sas City, an organization, the sole purpose of which is to fight labor.
His brother, the general manager of his companies, Mr. F. L.
Dickey, is a member of the Executive Committee of this organiza
tion, which recently sent out a letter denouncing labor, copy of
which is set out below.
His Opinion of Labor.
This is what W. S. Dickey, candidate for United States Senate,
thinks of labor: u
OFFICERS.
8. Howard Bmlth, Prfld. nt.
Conrad Mntin, First ko Pri-sldpnt
John H. Wllei, Tlilrd Vice l'wld(nt.
C. C. Petern, Fourth vim n-incni.
Chas. H. Fnoth, Second Vice HrusltleaL
3 F Townlfy. Fifth Vice Prealdent.
H. c. Bi'tnvlwirobei, Trpnsurcr.
H. H. AndwMn. Beoretnry.
In Tuly, 1916, there was a proposition before the Senate pro
r, i t. . .....t. m Tavlor svtrm. so iniuriou to the
would have picked more but that viaing mat tnc . Knr
be did the weighing and packing.' bbg-jng gan. snquia vo.ji
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE,
Conrnd Mann. Chairman,
Secy mid Trcaa. K. C. Brewarloi Co.
W. J. rtrrkowtta,
fre'.lilint Uorkuwlli Envelop Co.
I J. Clmpmnn, Mgr. Missouri Dairy Co.
F. L. DICKEY,
Gtn'l Mgr. W. S. Dickey Mfg. Co. .
EU. K. uienn.
Vlca Trea. whltcomb Cablnat Co.
S. A. McClean, Supt. Armour Co.
Vrea.IoviJoy Planing Mill Co. .
Offices
EMPLOYERS' ASSOCIATION,
f Kansas City, Missouri.
Doth Phones, Main 4593. .
VILL YOU READ IT? ' . ., .
Gentlemen: :- '..,..., v,l
If Union Labor is a public benefit, it should be encouraged and
patronized. H Union Labor is oppressive, over-bearing, unreason- ,
able, ana a puuuc ucimticm, it ...... .
. Labor conditions are growing from bad to worse all over the
it . . -.i.a.m Am.nria r m.r nv rnnrprrpr arrinn nn Tn.
country. unic men uiu'" "' j , r r j
part of organized employers, Kansas yiy wm suun uc m mc grasn j
v . . ' U.. elni.ee ntprnr!sp will hp narnlvyprl. a thev a
are today in San Francisco, where the Chamber of Commerce has J
determined to raise ifi,tniu;'u."'j ijuih"3 ui .'m"'s " j
to the present strike, and bring about conditions wherein any and i
all men may, find employment, without paying tribute to labor J
UmThe street railways of New York are tied up. .The dairy bus?- J
ness'of Cleveland and St. Ixiuis are today out of business, on ac-1
count of drivers' demandSi ine aairy unvcrs nave wroiuuun giu
cery and bakery wagons to come, and will not permit ice to be
delivered to the dairy companies by union' teamsters. ; ,
Can we expect organized labor in Kansas City to rest quietly
r in tir "lahor movement" tSr.t is heinf
and rciuse io icuw-h-- - .
nromotea in otner mm. .p.-.,. ......
nrotection, Kansas City will be "union ridden" as many other large 1
' . mi... i iln hv th rnisinrii interest trr fir.irt off i
cities are. wnnt io using j . ...
the advances of organized labor? Does any one imagine that organ
ized labor has sufficient pride in this city's welfare to withhold its
death-dealing hand, should an opportunity arise to promote its
Self-'LaboSnions dertand that you must do business under their
lirtation regardless of profits or protests. If you think union labor
fa comne'tent to dictate the policy, name the -tU
Continued on Fourth Pag.
Continued on Fourth Page
