FARMINGTON, ST. FRANCOIS COUNTY, MISSOURI, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1916.
NO. 41
VOL. 43
Amateur Night
'..! At
The Monarch
Wednesday, October 25th.
5.00 PRIZE
Awarded by the Audience,
to Best Entertainer.
If you sing, play, dance, or do anything else that
is entertaining, no matter what, leave your name at
the Box office at once- Open to all! EVERYBODY
GETS A CHANCE ! No matter where you live, or
what your age, come on and compete for the prize.
PROFESSIONALS BARRED.
ADHISSION 10c AS USUAL
Do Any Stunt You Please
Local Candidates to Vote For
HON. WALTER L. HENSLEV
Congressman Walter L. Henslcy is
serving his third term as Representa
tive of the Thirteenth Missouri Dis
trict in Congress, and the Democrats
of the District have nominated hint
for election to a fourth term by an
overwhelming majority, recognizing
the well approved policy that experi
ence in the national halls of legisla
tion is the surest way of having the
district well and ably represented.
Mr. Hensley has won a distinction
that entitles him to this honor so
generously conferred upon him by the
Democrats of this district.. To his
credit in Congress is his support of
every reform and progressive meas
ure that has been enacted in the six
years that he has been a member of :
the national legislative body popu-j
lar election of United States Senators, 1
national income tax, Federal reserve
banking law, child labor law, farm
loan law, workmen's compensation for i
railroad employes, cxempti ig labor '
m-ions from prosecutfon under the
Shrman act, and numerous other
measures making tor tne general iras
incEa prosperity of the country and
for the benefit of labor. Mr. Hcns
1a l,iDn'i ru, i iHrilnnt. c',,arnctoi'istic
in his make-up, and his close and in-1
tell'gent wcrk on the Act r and ill
committee rooms has gained for him
the respect and confidence of leading
members of the House and t:ie Sena
tors of his own State, thus enhancing
his influence and Usefulness as a Rep
resentative. To make a change un
der such conditions would be the
heighth of unwisdom. Mr. Hensley
deoorves the vote of every Democrat
and every lriboring man in the dis
mn ,.vi. ri hop him re-
IV i , miu " "nj."
turned to Congress by the largest ma
jority he has ever received.
IITnn PETER H. HIICK
In placing the name of Judge Huck
OH their ticket for re-election a3 Judge
of the Twenty-Seventh Judicial Cir-1
cuit, the Democratic party has done'
well. He is serving his first term on
the bench, having been elected in 1910, ,
and he was re-nomina' ed this year j
without opposition or dissent. He
has won the respect and confidence of (
Ua Knf anH trip nennle bv his :
j: fa 1 Jn.nnn . . lifo fair
uigmiteu uciMcniiui, ....-,
rulings, prompt decisions, dispatch of
business and uniform courtesy on the
bench. This judicial circuit has never
had a Judge who has given more gen
oral satisfaction in the discharge of
the duties devolving upon him, nor
one who has been more conscientious
in applying the law.. He has the most
profound respect for law, and his
rule has been that" where a law is on
the statut3 books it should be ob
served and enforced not harshly and
oppressively, but with a view of pro
tecting and bettering society and
maintaining the peace and dignity of
the State. His record is one that de
serves the recognition and inodrse
ment of all good, law-abiding citizens,
and this can be shown in no more
graceful way than by his re-election.
What we have said here is known
throughout this judicial circuit, and
we believe the voters will accord him
the- meed to which he is so clearly en
titled. V
GEORGE W. MOOTHART
The Democratic candidate for Rep
resentative, Prof. George W. Moot
hart, is president of the Moothart
Business College Company, which op
erates thriving business colleges in
several of the wide-awake towns-and
cities of Southeast Missouri. He was
born May 6, 1866, and reared on a
farm near Decatur, 111., up to his 20th
vear. He was educated in the public
and high schools of his native county,
and attended normal schools ut Ladoga
and Valparaiso,' Ind., and Dixon, 111.;
taught in the public schools of Illi
nois for three years, and has taught
.Hid organized business colleges dur
ing the past 24 years. Several of these
latter have been organized by him
in Southeast Missouri and are operat
atlby the company of which he is
aeesident, and in which he has been
a Wacher of commercial law for sev
eral years.
vProf. Moothart has been a resident
of Farmington for the past eleven
years. He is a member of the Pres
byterian Church and is affiliated with
three benevolent and beneficiary or
ders Knights of Pythias, Modern
Woodman and Modern American. " He
was a useful member of the City Coun
cil for one term, and has kept in close
touch with all modern movements and
public questions, and is rich in ex
perience with big business affairs re
quiring executive force and ability,
all which thoroughly equip him for
the responsibilities of a Representa
tive in the General Assembly of the
State and will make him an influ
ential and' valuable factor in that
body. He is a thorough Democrat in
sentiment and principle, approachable
and in full sympathy with tho toiling
masses, whether on the farm, in the
shop or in the mines, with nothing of
the demagogue or time-server in his
make-up. St. Francois county has
many good citizens, but none who
would make a better and more faith
ful Representative.
WILLIS A. MITCHELL
In the First District the Democrats
present as their nominee for Judge
of the County Court Willis A. Mitch
ell of the Esther vicinity, St. Fran
cois township. Mr. Mitchell is known
as a progressive farmer and an active
man of business, and on the County
Court bench such men are needed, for
the Court is a business body that has
the management of all the county's
business, which is varied and far
reaching; the construction of new
roads and improvement and up-keep
of those already put in good condi
tion, the letting of contracts, the au
diting of all accounts against the
county, financing its necessary ex
penses and the guarding of its funds
so that the expenses may not exceed
the revenue. To all of this Mr. Mitch
ell will bring his best endeavor, and
in road construction and improvement,
which is one of the most important
and progressive problems with which
the Court has to deal, until our coun
ty road system shall become all that
m desired, Mr. Mitchell has had much
practical experience and is known as
a good roads enthusiast. He may be
depended upon to pay close attention
to every detail and take a pride in
serving the people to the very best of
his ability. He should receive, and
we have no doubt that he will re
ceive, the vote of every Democrat in
the r irst district and then some.
FRANCIS M. MATKIN
The Democratic nominee for Judge
of the County Court in the Second Dis
trict belongs to one of the oldest an
best known families of our county,
who came here before Missouri was
a State. He is a farmer, as were
most of his ancestors, and successful
ly conducts a farm in Pendleton
township, near Doe Run. A man of
good judgment, who seer, and recog
nizes the needs of the county, of good
roads properly graded and rock sur
faced, of the economical mnnage
merft of the county's revenue, the
proper care of the county's institu
tions and the safe-guardi"g of the
county's capital school fund and who
will bring to the County Court bench
a conscientious endeavor to serve the
people and their interests to the verv
best of his ability. Mr. Matkin stands
well with the people among whom he
lives, as shown by his vote in the pri
mary, more than doubling that of his
competitor for the nomination in his
home township, although the latter
was well and favorably known there.
We commend him to the voters gene
rally, and especially to Democrats of
the Second District at the general elec
tion on November 7th.
LAWRENCE O. WELLS
People, of St. Francois county, do
you appreciate a pood AwteSspt' when
vou have one? That ;s the ' ind of
Assessor Lawrence O. Wells has made
you. Then show your appreciation by
re-electing him. The Democrats hav
shown their appreciation of hi Mf
vices by nominating him for a second
term, and they are going to do their
level best to re-elect him. Yes, we
know the Republicans and some of
the lead companies are trying to dis
credit his work and are mighty anx
ious to defeat him. They are throw-1
ing rocks at him fast and hard, but
did you ever notice that the most
rocks and sticks are found under the
best apple tree? The big rich lead
companies were not paying their pro
portionate share of the taxes. Mr.
Wells raised their assessments till
they come somewhere near the ave
rage assessment of farm lands and
other property, and these companies
ever did before. Of course they don't
are now furnishing a more adequate
share of the county revenue than they
like Mr. Wells, 'and the Republicans
have nominated one of the companies'
confident clerks and paymasters,
who, if elected, will do the assessing
for them and for you. It is no easy
task that Mr. Wells has been up
against, and he knew it would incur
opposition in some quarters, but he
conscientiously did his duty, and he
deserves your confidence and your
votes. Give them to him in good
measure and running over and show
your appreciation of a faithful and
efficient public officer.
THOMAS A. MATHEWS
The Democratic nominee tor Pros-ecuting-Attorney,
is a leading young
lawyer of Flat River, well grounded
in the principles of law, capable and
well-equipped for the responsible po
sition for which he has been named,
as he has had considerable experience
as Assistant Prosecuting Attorney in
conducting State cases. Wide-awake,
energetic and resourceful, he would
give his undivided attention to the du
ties of the office and the enforcement
of the law in all matters that come
under its supervision. He has the
confidence and respect of the bar and
of all with whom he has come in
contact, professionally or otherwise,
and would bring to the office a con
scientious endeavor to serve the peo
ple and uphold the law. We bespeak
for him the .earnest support of all
Democratic voters at the polls on the
7th of November, confident that if
elected he will fulfill the most exacting
expectations.
CHARLES H. ADAMS
The Democrats of St. Francois
county could not have made a better
choice for Sheriff than they did in
nominating Mr. Adams. He is a man
of cool, deliberate character, energet
ic, watchful and as determined as he
is gentle and courteous in his deport
ment. Mr. Adams has for many years
acted as Marshal for the city of Farm
ington, and has served considerable
time in the capacity of Deputy Sheriff.
He is acquainted with all the details
and requirements of the office of Sher
iff, and we have no hesitancy in say
ing that if olected, which we are con
fident he will be, he will make one of
the best, most efficient and courteous
Sheriffs St. Francois county has ev
er had. He has a wide acquaintance
over the county, and everybody who
knows him is his friend, and we know
they are going to do all they can to
roll up a big majority for him.
"Qharley," as all his friends call him,
is a staunch Democrat and though a
good partisan is not of the offensive
kind, but liberal and generous toward
all opponents, and in his official ca
pacity will be as fair to the one as
the other. Give him a good vote for
he will make a good Sheriff.
HORACE W. COFFIELD
Mr.'Coffield, the Democraticcandi
date for County Treasurer, is well
known and deservedly popular
throughout the county, and especially
in that largely populated and exten
sive section known as the Lead Belt.
He is a man of fine business ability,
upright character and pleasing ad
dress, and nossesses all the qualifica
tions to make a safe, careful and ac
curate receiver and disburser of the
county funds. He has been a resi
dent of the county all his life and all
his interests are-ccntered here. He
is now in the drug business at Des
loge, where he enjoys the confidence
and good will of all who come in con
tact with him either in a business or
social way; and while n straight life
long, active Democrat, he does not al
low any differences of opinion or of
politics to interfere with his natural
regard and fellow-feeling for others.
In short, he is one of our best and
most substantial citizens, one of the
strong men on the Democratic ticket,
and is sure to receive and is deserving
of eve; y Democratic vote in the county-
(
HENRY M. O'BANNON
This sterling young Democrat
whom the Democrats of the county
have placed on their ticket for Ke
corder of Deeds, is a scion of two
rio-e"' fimilies of St. Francois coun-
' ty the O'Bannons on his father's side,
and the Hunts on his mother's side
fcnd they are all Democrats as far
back as you can trace them. He of
i course was born in this county and
reared on a farm what a lot of our
I best people have their beginning on
the farm! And he knows what other
. kind of work is, for he has labored as
i well in the granite quaries of Knob
Lick. But he is a successful teacher
now has been lor nineteen years
and such universal satisfaction has he
given as a teacher, that he has taught
these nnnv vears i" ordv four schools.
Th'"nigh in his training, competent
;n execution, and satisfied With nothing
hut t best he is well eiuipned for
te duties -f the office for which he
has hen nnmi"td. Mr O'Bannon is
a fleasarit. affable gentleman, of up-
! rieht character and strict integrity,
I and 'f you ever have business with him
: in Vp' JWcoHt's office he will make
you glad that you placed him there.
Democrats, he is worthy of your sup
port, entitled to your vote, so see to it
that he misses (tone of them.
THOMAS H. HOLMAN
The present incumbent of the office
of County Surveyor and the Demo
cratic nominee for that office is one
of the most capable surveyors our
count;' has ever lud, and to him the
county is largely indebted for some of
the best roads we have constructed
when he was County Highway En
gineer. Mr. Holman is thorough in
all that he does. His work may con
fidently be depended upon to be ac
curate as to every detail. He knows
his business; is a practical surveyor
and highway engineer by choice i of
calling, inclination and natural adapt
ability as well as by hard study and
work. He loves the work, and would
not think of neglecting or slurring
over the slightest detail any more
than he would any part that might be
easily detected. He ought to be re
elected, for the county needs Just such
efficient men in its service, and we are
confident he will be.
DR. JAMES H. ENGLISH
Dr. English is the Democratic nom
inee for Public Administrator. He is
widely and favorably known all over
the county, for he has served as Cor
oner for a number of years and has
been a successful practitioner of med
icine. It has pleased him to ask for
this office and it has pleased the Dem
ocrats to nominate him without oppo-
tition. The Doctor would make an
ideal Public Administrator. He is
big and generous and courteous, and
any estate and the interests of the
heirs would be as safe in his hands
arid as well looked after as if they
were his own individual business.
And that is about as much as it is nec
essary to say. Give him your vote,
and you will make no mistake.
Keep It Alive
While this is perhaps not the pro
per time to attempt to press to a
finish negotiations in regard to se
curing a City Park for Farmington,
owing to the absorbing interest in the
present political campaign, the inter
est in the matter of adding to the
beauty, healthfulness and public con
venience of Farmington, which has al
ready been aroused, should be kept
alive until a more convenient season
arives when the work can be proceed
ed with to advantage.
It is really a patriotic duty with all
good citizens, who are zealous for the
continued growth and upbuilding of
Farminifton, to make the question of
public parks, and all other things for
the mibliC'Weal. a subject of interest
ing, yea, alluring conversation. Such
a theme can generally dc usea xo nn
in conversation, and such conversation
will jgenerally bring out new ideas.
Whenever the people of Farmington
get to talking along this line, in any
thing like a general way, then it will
be a comparatively easy matter to
launch at least one City Park scheme,
equipped with all the conveniences of
a modern public play ground and
meeting place.
Think about it! Talk about it! And
then, when the proper time arrives, it
will not be a question of "when" or
"where." It will sTmply be a ques
tion of "how much." Then, when a
creditable park has been secured for
Farmington, general satisfaction in
excess of whatever the cost may be,
will continue to pile up and multiply
each year.
You Must Not
Kill the Birds
Reports have recently been coming
to The Times office that there is more
or less shooting of quail and other
kinds of birds going on in this vicinity.
If this is a fact, and there is no con
trary information at hand, then there
is very grave reasons to fear that
some such thoughtless persons will
soon find themselves entangled in the
meshes of the law. A game warden
will, in all likelihood, soon be on the
scene to see that such shooting is
prosecuted,' in compliance with the
law in the case.
This is the closed season for quail,
for the killing of which a heavy fine
can be imposed. There is also an in
creasing public sentiment against the
killing of these thrifty insectivorious
birds, at any season of the year.
Manv other birds are protected by
law 'from the death dealing gun, in
tho hands of thoughtless boys, or
mindless men, all the year around.
The Times does not desire to see
any one suffer for such offense, even
thoufh we think it is cold-blooded
thoughtlessness, but we predict that
iwomc will be brought before tho law
ere long, and be forced to separate
from a heavy fine, at least, if the
law is not more rigidlv observed in
regard to the wanton killing of birds.
LARGE DINNER PARTY
About 11 o'clock Sunday morning
automobile loads of St. Louis people
began to arrive at the St. Francois
Hotel in this city for dinner, and by
12 o'clock about 60 of them were eat
ing dinner there. The party was en
route to their homes from a visit to
Arcadia, where they had spent seve
ral dayi at that popular resort.
This large party, "oming without
any advance notice, caused quite a
bustle about the St. Francois in mak
ing preparations for feeding them,
but the proprietor, H. D. Baker, was
eoual to the emergency, serving them
well and sending them on their way
well pleased with the service that had
been rendered them.
GREATEST DEMOCRATIC
RALLY OF CAMPAIGN
Fully 20,000 People Hear Great Nebras
kan, Col. Gardner and Gov. Major
at Cape Girardeau Tuesday
The great Democratic speaking and
rally at Cape Girardeau Tuesday was
perhaps the most stupendous affair
that has been pulled off in Missouri i
during the present campaign, both in
point of the great gathering there as- j
sembled as well as the splendid de-1
gree of enthusiasm that was exhib- j
ited. The assemblage was variously '
estimated at from 20,000 to 25,000 1
peopel, and the question on many lips i
was "Where did so many people come
from?" i
They came from everywhere within
a hundred miles or more of the Cape,
and the magnet that drew them was 1
that great Ncbraskan, William Jen-1
nings Bryan, with Col. Fred D. Gard-1
ner as a closa second. The afternoon ;
speaking was at the fair grounds, 1
whero had been prepared seats for
bout 15,000 people, which did not
accommodate more than two-thirds of
the splendid gathering, which was
packed and jammed in for a hundred
yards about the speaker's stand, in ev-.
try direction.
Mr. Bryan was a the first speaker,
and for about two hours he held the
closest possible attention of the im-1
mense assemblage. The Commoner!
almost surpassed himself in the force
ful and convincing manner in which
he presented unanswerable argument
as to why the entire Democratic tick
et this yenr should be elected. His
arrangement of facts and figures was
so comlpete and compact as to leave
no blow holes whereby it was possible
for a Republican to get a look in. His
argument was so ably and intelligent
ly presented as tovcut away the very
foundations on which all opposition
to Democracy rests, and to convince
anyone, no matter what may have
been his previous political beliefs,
that this is the year when there
should be absolutely no opposition to
the Democratic ticket among the
plain, working people.
He said there were, in fact, but two
classes qf peopl Democrats and
Plutocrats. Democracy builds from
a solid foundation upward, while Plu
tocracy belie tbkt they are sus
pended fron. above, and that the low
er stratas of humanity are to exist
from what seeps through from above.
Mr. "Bryan was certainly at his best,
both mentally and physically, and the
frequent and uproarous applause re
minded one of his speeches of 1896
and 1900. A large delegation from
Business Change
Dr. R. E. Walsh, whose office has
been in the Tetley building, on the
south side of West Columbia street,
has bought, the entire dental fur
nishings and officei equipment of Dr.
C. A. Tetley, and has moved into the
splendid location tormerly occupied
by Dr. Tetley. Dr. Walsh will have
his new offices thoroughly overhauled
and renovated, and will thoroughly
equip his office for convenience as
well as service. He will have two
dental chairs fitted up, which will en
able him to do much more work than
he could properly do with a single
chair.
Dr. Walsh has built up a splendid
practice during the few months he has
been in Farmington, which is due to
the conscientious and thorough qual
ity of all work that he turns out. In
his new and improved quarters the
demand for his services will doubtless
increase, and he will be prepared to
supply the increased demand for his
splendid dental work.
NEW YORKER MAKES "PLEA"
Job E. Hedges, a New York im
portation to Missouri to educate this
heathen land, spoke Monday after
noon in the court room, to a good
sized audience, on the wonderful ben
efits that would accrue to us should
C. E. Hughes be chosen as President
next month. The natives sat through
out the speech in an apparently calm
and peaceful frame of mind, and
nothing was said to cause them to
so much as "show their teeth". So
that Mr. Hedges got by unmolested.
His speech was more of a plea, but
he stopped before stating what he
wanted. He seemed to regard himself
more as a missionary to some barbar
ic land, and what he said also indicat
ed the same thing. He presented no
real argument, but evidently tried to
create the impression that he had of
i'.. ,-.,.! UimcAlf a sacrifice, in the dan
gerous task of absolutely invading
Missouri to present his "bull" to the
aborigines. He is now perhaps on his
return home to tell of his "heroic ex
ploits." LICENSE TO MARRY
Oct. 13th, Francis A. Riney and
Mary C. Boyer of Flat River.
14th, W. F. Mouser and Emily Yar-brough-
of Bonen Terre.
16th, Frank Proffit and Julia E
Sards of Flat River.
J6th, Jim S. DeClue and Blanche
McGrail of Bonne Terre.
18th, Thos. M. Turley and Effie
Christina Moor of Valle Mines.
17th, John Smarsch of Flat River
and Mary Kiketic of Perry, N. Y.
Anna, 111., came over for him imme
diately after his speech, in sixty au
tomobiles, a distance of about sixty
miles, where he spoke that evening.
He is the same old Bryan, as eagerly
sought and as loudly acclaimed asev
er. Col. Fred Gardner, who followed
Bryan, was a surprise to the great
gathering, in the manner in whics he
presented most forceful argumcntj as
to why there should be no changl in
the political conditions in Missouri.
All this State is in need of is more
and better business methods 1 in
the executive department, and thia he
can render, as he is a business expert.
Mr. Gardner was not known as a
public speaker, but the manner in
which he acquitted himself was a mosst
pleasing surprise to his thousands of
friends there present, and astounded
all who heard him. His speech indi
cated clearly that he knew just what
would be required of him as Govern
or, and the manner of obtaining- the
very best results would be right at
hand. He spoke like a man with a
mission to perform, and there was
nothing mushy or lammy in what he
said.
In the evening the speaking was on
the court house square, where 6,000
to 8,000 people gathered. Governor
Major was -the principal speattr at
this meeting. After the struigest
possible recommendation of the Wil
son administration, the Governor got
down to a defense of his own admin
istration, which has been so venem
ously criticised, especially by the Re
publicans. Taking up Judge Lamm's
criticism of the present administra
tion, Governor Major not only demon
strated, but proved, that there was no
element of truth in the repeated
charge of graft and mismanagement
in his administration. He again of
fered to pay all of Judge Lamm's ex
penses for a chance to trim him on
any platform in the entire State.
And this invitation was extended to
include any friend of Judge Lamm
who felt equal to shouldering the bur
den of his fight.
The gathering .. was fitonutJf i the
largest ever assembled, in Cape Gi
rardeau, as wefl as in the entire south
eastern part of the State. The ques
tion on many lips was "Where did all.
these people come from?" The feel
ing was everywhere in evidence that
this is a Democratic year, from Pres
ident to Constable.
Burglary
A burglar, or burglars, on las;. Fri
day night forced an entrance through
the rear door of McKinncy's bakery,
using a crow-bar to force the door
open. A skeleton key wns then used
to unlock the door leading from the
bakery to the store. A sack contain
ing $10 in chango was taken, .but
nothing else has been missed as a re
sult of the stealthy visit. The 'money
bag was taken from a shelf behind
the soda f junU.in, v.ni is almost con
clusive evidence that the deed was
committed by local talent, who was
more or less acquainted with the cus
tom followed there of leaving differ
ent amounts of change thus conveni
ent on a shelf. NoLhing has been
miscod from the stock although con
siderable tobacco and cigars might
have beon taken without being missed.
This is the first burglary that Farm
ington has had for many months, and
we hope it will be many additional
months ere another such base act
will be attempted.
ADAM MOTSCH
On Monday, October 16, 1916, Adam
Motsch, formerly of Bqnne Terre, died
at the home of his daughter, Mrs. T.
B. Welch, in Farmington, Mo., aged
65 years and 13 days. Mr. Motsch had
been an invalid for the past year.
He is survived by his wife, two sons,
Chas. of Bisbee, Arizona, and Edward
of Farmington; and six daughters,
Mrs. J. A. Huggins of Flat River, Mrs.
J. M. Falk of Bonne Terre, Mrs. E. J.
Schindler of Scott county, MrsuJ. G.
Kline of St. Louis, Mrs. Wm. Perkins
of Bonne Terre, and Mrs. T. B. Welch
of Farmington.
Funeral services will be conducted
at St. Joseph's Catholic Chu'ch by
Rev. Father Morgan this (Friday)
morning, October 20th. at 8:30 o'clock.
Interment in Catholic cemetery.
THE ENDLESS CHAIN
The following new subscribers to
The Times have been received the
past week: P. E. Welker and W. S.
Crawford. Route 6; George Humphrey
and Joe Estes, Route 2; and Thomas
Halter, of Farmington. Mirs Florena
Edwards of Fredericktown, and Mrs.
W. A. Oglesby of Charleston, Mo.
BIG PURCHASE OF CALVES
A. Sellers of near SiVeston was here
this week buying calves, and succeed
ed in getting 60 head, wb'ch he nur
chased of the following enterprising
sto'-k raisers of the county. James
O'SulIivan, Murphv Br- ""sell
Rvan and Morris Orell. M- Priors
shipped the nice bunch yesterday to
SikestOn.
