An Advertisement in the TIMES Brings Results
Weekly Edition, Vol. 18, No. 7
MONETT, MISSOURI, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1916
Daily Edition Vol. 9, No. 88
CREEKMORE'S SENTENCE
FOR CONTEMPT AFFIRMED
St. Paul Court of Appeals Upholds
Punishment of Year and Day in
Federal Pen for Joplin Liq
uor Dealer Convicted at
Muskogee.
WORK NEARING COMPLETION
Muskogee, Gkla., Oct. 17. The
sentence in August, 1915, by Judge
Ralph E. Campbell, in UniteU States
districe court, upon William J.
Creekmoer, a Joplin, Mo., liquor deal
er, was affirmed today by the Unit
ed States circuit court of appeals at
St. Paul, according to advices receiv- j
ed here tonight. Creekmore was sen-;
tenced to one year and one day in the
federal penitentiary for contempt of i
court. ;
Citations were issued foj- Creek-
more, W. H. Kobbins, former sher
iff of Muskogee county, and several
others, who were charged with hav
ing tampered with the jury which
was trying a case in which Creek
ihonp was on trial for conspiracy,
gainst the federal government.
It was alleged that J. H. Seymour,
one of the jurors, received a sum of
money soon after the trial and the
government contended hait this
money was paid over in considera
tion of a vote for acquittal by Sey
mour Seymour, on the vr.tness
stand, admitted receiving the money.
ARNHART ITEMS
A nice rain fell Saturday and Sun
day whidh was badly needed.
Rev. I. M. Marbut and Rev. Edd
Brown begin a revival meeting here
SJunday nijjht.
Miss Anna Marbut visited Miss
Reta Inmon Saturday night and Sun
day. Born, to Mr. pid Mrs. Marshall
Hughey, a girl, Wednesday Oct. .11.
Several of the voung folks from I
i
this part attended church at Need- j
more Sunday night. j
Miss Nellie Ball ho has been stay-'
ing' with Mrs. Henry Roller, went!
home, Saturday.
Mr, Henry Roller is Muling lop;s to
prepare for buildup a l-y,v, the'
place which he purchased from Mar-j
ion Roller.
Ship Last Car of Stone for Exterior
of State Capitol Building
Carthage, Oct. 19. The last 'car
load of stone for the exterior of the
state capitol building at Jefferson
City was shipped yesterday by the'
John Gill & Sons Construction Com
pany, contractors for the erection of
the new state edifice. Up to date the
shipments of stone to the state capi
tol total 719. carloads." It is said
that another week will tee the com
pletion of the stonework on the buil
ding, both interior and exterior as
far as the demand on the Carthage
quarry is concerned.
According to officials of the com
pany, however, they have .enough
contracts at present to keep the plant
operating at full capacity for several
months. v They are also figuring for
the stone contract cn several large
buildings in this and adjoining states.
THE HURRY-UP CALL
FARMERS! NATIONAL CON
GRESS INDORSES MR. WIL
SON'S POLICIES
When Abraham Lincoln was made
president there had been troubles in
Mexico and some jingoists were cry
ing for intervention. American prop
erty had been destroyed, American
lives lost, a member of the American
legation had been murdered , but
here is what President Lincoln had to
say to these jingoists: "For a few
years past the condition of Mexico
lies been so unsettled as to raise the
question on both sides of the Atlantic
whether the time has not come when
some foreign power ought, in the in
terest of society generally, to Inter
vene to establish a protectorate or
some other form of government in
that country and guarantee in con
tinuance. You will not fail to as
sure the government of Mexico (he
was speaking through his secretary
of state) that the president rii'her
has, nor can ever have, any sympa
thy with such designs, in whatever
quarter they may ar're or whatever
character tihey may take." Sounds
vu, ; t n
I si
V V
mmm
attmm
33i
I -V:
mmmmm
:K:!a i tion enacted for the
TfS-iJ I farmers of America."
if-
Indianapolis, Ind., Oct. 17. In
dorsing in the most emphatic langu
age President Wilson,s foreign poli-
TO CELEBRATE "WILSON DAY"
Every City, Town and Hamlet to Ob
serve October 28.
New York, Oct. 17. Saturday, Oc
tober 28, is to be observed in every
cy and applauding his courage and ! city, town and namiet in uie united
patriotism, iShe Frners National j States as "Woodrow Wilson Day."
Congress of the United States, in its ! Thousands of celebrations will be
thirty-sixth annual session, today tel-lld at which-a proclamation by the
egraphed hearty congratulations to President of Americanism is to be
the President, expressing- the pro- j read.
found gratitude and appreciation of i Iu Greater New York no less than
this important body for the success- I 200 of the3e meetings will take place,
ful efforts of the President in keep-! A special program has been arranged
ing "the nation honorably at peace 1 for each In the Bronx 10'000 moth"
during one of the most trying per-! crs wU1 P can'vlfig' bannf
iods of its history." ! proclaiming Woodrow
TIip m-P-anization also exnrPKKPR an-! man of the hour and
Ttwoiatinn of tjTie nf1iv.iV.5rniir.r.'i i Saved their SOU
"constructive and effective legisla-
benefit o fthe
MORE BEAUTY IN THE WORLD THE YELLOW DOG WON
In Town and Country Alike, Flower
Gardens Tell of Progress
; ' Washington, Oct: IS. Ponderous
I ivmiaeatal machinery stood stock
i still today wnne a win teen ycui uui
It is a chan" ' world from other! g.jri st0od before a group of dignified
days, ' -cter one. People are j generals and tearfully pleaded for
mow: .jrate of others. They take i yle life of a little yellow dog.
more interest in beautiful surround-, She was Esther Smiley, of Mary
ings than ever before. They are more &n sister of Private Peter Smiley,
a recruit in the United States Marine
Corps, and the dog she held in her
arms had been Peter's playmate since
thoughtful, more patient, more anx
iov,3 to live amid pleasant surround
ings than they have ever beer!. Which
is suggestive every minute in the day j youth.
as one travels through the city or out j "Rover will surely die of grief un
into the country. j less you send him on to my brother,"
Originally only a few old people ' the little girl sobbed,
took an interest in flowers. In fact, j And wonder of wonders, the digni
it was considered effinnnate, and no j fied generals understood the little
man would admit that he paid any j girl's plea, and, acting instanter to
attention to the blossoms. Few preclude the embalming of Rover in
homes niada any pretensions to beau- the red tape of officialdom, gave the
Tie President, un;hle to '.atftend,
sent Assistant Secretary of Agricul
ture Carl Vrooman to "convey to
you my personal greeting and assur
ances of sympathy and good will.
The loyal and effective support which
has been given by your organization
Wilson the
the one who
from war. The pa-
1 uuc will ttri uuiiavc mwi nut. mwa
meeting which men and women ora
tors will address.
The committee in charge of "Wood
row Wilson Day" has enlisted the aid
of every Wilson club and all the or
ganizations working in his interests
to arrange local meetings.
The message that is to be read will
be delivered by the President in per-
to further the passage of legislation j son Delore a nuSe gameung
in the interest of the farmer during I dw Lawn that day, which will be lo
th e present administration is most
sincerely appreciated."
NOAH HOUSTON DEAD
cally known as "New York Day."
LICENSES TO WED
William Wolverton ... Graham, Kan.
Noah Houston died at his home in j Ophelia Lee Mano
Idaho Thursday, Oct. 12. lY Harris, 27 Mulberry, Kan.
Wm. Houston of Monett received Evada Han"is Newtoma
o vQec.!n. EVi,icnr v; Kwnn-in i John C. Yates, 84 Monett
the sad news of his brother s death
Eunita N. Salzer, 21
Noah was a son of the late George i
Houston and was reared in this coun- j
ty 12 miles northeast of Cassville, on
Flat creek . He was an excellent
young man and had many warm
friends in this county.
He leaves a wife and five children.
Cassville Republican.
Miss Hazel Faman
Tch-ee City, Thursday.
iyisited in
Walter Bun-is, 19
Ellen Dickens, 17... Rocky
Chas. W. Whitney, 23
Sybil Bennett. 21
Claude E. Henderson, 2-i. .
Lottie Jaques, 26
W. M. J. Adamson
Mary M. Edgar
T. E. Meadows, 30
Minnie Brock, 22
. .Monett
, . . Exeter
Comfort
. .Monett
. .Monett
. .Jenkins
McDowell
. .Everton
. Cassville
. . . .Mano
Mano
CLOTHING "
Phone C25
CLOTHING
PROFESSIONAL MAN
have SUITS AND' OVERCOATS that are 'suited to your profession.
GALLOWAY &. 'Vi :' N'SFIELi)
"The Boys v.iih the Duda."
420 Broadway
SHOES
SHOES
TESTIMONY TAKEN IN
LOCAL OPTION
CASE
JOHN M'CARY DEAD
John McCary, Af southwesJt of
Cassville, died Sunday, October 15,
after a short illness. Mr. ' McCary
died on the Henry McCary farn,
where he was born, and which had
been in the McCary family for 80
years.
decidely Wilsonian, doesn't it? Jop
lin Globe.
Barter and Perfection coal oil heat
ers; just the thing for these cool
mornings and evenings, and a neces
sity for a bath room. Davis & Chap
ell Hardware Co. 69 tf.
is in training for the land and sea
duties of marines.
PARENT-TEACHER 'RECEPTION.
pi
rn
f
0
.A
Don't Value
Yourself Too Low
In buying Life Insurance many men make the mistake of insur
ing their lives for a small amount because they fear the pay
ment of the premium on a large sum will embarrass them financially.
Your life has a definite value measured in dollars and cents,
measured by your income, your propects, the responsibilities of
your family. Let the Life Insurance man help you determine
your ' value.
Don't be afraid to insure your life for what it is worth. By
making regular deposits of a small proportion of your income in
a Savings Account you will not only soon accumulate the first
full year's premium, but you wll be able to easily meet subse
quent premiums as they fall due. ,
THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK
Assets Over Half a Million.
CAKI. VV.
VV'ILUS VV
PHII J.
FKES-
C ASH IKK
V.PKES.
&
3?
i
.4
ty a place to cut and sleep, that was
1 about all the home stood for. Orna
. mentation was left to invalids and to
i faddists, and the world was so busy
j chopping down trees and clearing
i the land, and providing the bare ne
I cessities of life, there was no time for
! the esthetic.
; All of this is changed, The huni
! blest home now cultivates a few
; flowers at least. Strong men are
j not ashamed to tell of their affection
for the blssoms, nor of their devo
tion to the birds. There has been a
general tendency for some years to
ward the ornamental in home con
struction, and the envionment is be
ing beautified everywhere.
Out in the country the farmers pay
more attention to their bams and
out-houses as well as to their home.
On? finds beautiful lawns in front of
many farm homes, and rough fences
are discarded and unsightly out
houses are tabooed. The county
folks are acquiring the habit of im-
provingtneir property justas are tne viclin golo Misg pearl Loy of
city iweiiers, and it an goes to mane ; Springfield
a better and brighter world. But, ' AddrMS by j. Kelly Wl.igflt of the
above all, it goes to make more . gtate University.
thoughtful, a more considerate peo- p
pie. For wfliere one takes the time ; x
and spends the money to beautify his ;
heme, he is more considerate of others '
and 'more appreciative of his fellow- ;
man than he would otherwise be. Tk.!n
beautification and adornment is giv-:
ing us all a keener sense of the just, ;
and making us all the more anxious ,
to deal justly with our fellows. I
which should be the real aim of all. ',
Columbus, (0.,' Dispatch. ' !
necessary instructions, and within an SIDNEY HATCH BRCKE RECORD
hour the faithful playmate of Private
Peter Smiley was crated up ready for ; Chicago, Oct. 18. Sidney Hatch of ,
shipment to the Marine Corps recruit . Chicago, winner of a score of mara-1
depot, Port Royal, S. C, where Peter thon races, shattered all records for :
long distance running today wnen ne
finished a 90-mile run from Milwau
kee to Chicago in 14 hours 50 minutes
and 30 seconds.
Hatch's running mate, Alex Monte-,
verde of Johnston, N. Y, gave way ;
under the strain shortly before dawn
and dropped out.
J. M. Hull, of Nevada, special com
missioner to hoar testimony in the
local option case that was trancf er
red from Bnrry to Vernon county,
with the Vernon county official sten
ographer, George Ramsey, is in the
city examining witnesses today.
There will be between 40 and 50 wit
nesses examined.
Judge George Hubbard, of Neosho,
and D. S. Mayhew icpresent the
"drys" and I. V. McPherson, of Au
rora, and T. D. Steele appear for the
"wets." ,
EDGAR-ADAMSON
The Parent-Teacher Association
extends a cordial invitation to the
public and patrons of the public
schools to be present at the reception
given by tnem Friday night at Uie . , g . t Guick,g and ,ave their home on a farm near Miller
THAT NEW SUIT You should
Miss Mary Edgar, of Cassville, was
married to William Adamson, of M;l
ler, Lawrence county, Sunday after
noon, October 15 Tjiev will make
at the Presbyterian church.
The following program
given:
Organ Solo Mrs. M. C.
Invocation H. H.
will be
j
Shipley j
Koontz
money. We fit y u from stocK
make them to order. Gulick's.
or
tf.
BUILDING ADDITIONAL ROOM
Mrs. J. J. Halterman returned to
her home at Chicago, Thursday
morning, after a visit with her father,
Mr. Tuley. Her niece, Ethel Maxine
John Walsh is adding an additional White, went with her for a short vis-
Address of Welcome J. F. King j 30 fsai to hie business house on BroaV ; it .
Response. .Mrs. G. C. Simms, state j way, making it 100 feet in depth. -4
vice president of Nevada When completed it will be occupied JIr- and Mrs. B. W. Staley return
Knln . Mrs. A. Jones i hv Tvpv's nhimhine- establishment. ed to their home at Butler, Thursday,
Reading Mrs. J. W. Patterson
after a short visit with Mrs. Staley's
We have an elegant line of coal and parents, Captain and Mrs. Kenson or
wood heating stoves on our floor, thd Salvation Army.
Call at once and select your stove for Prompt service, careful work, guar
winter. Davis & Chapell Hardware Co. anteed. Phone 45". Anderson & John-
. 69 tf : son. 3 tf.
Try a Times want ad.
The Salzer Milling Company
Manufactures the Best Soft Wheat Flour
In this part of the country
Give us a trial and by so doing patronize patronize home industry
' - ANNOUNCEMENT
In the very near future the rhagnificant new home of the' Callaway furniture store will be filled with the most complete line of new patterns in
furniture, draperies and floor coverings ever before shown in Monett and thrown open for public inspection.
For this unusual opening I have spent considerable time in the best furniture markets of this country selecting with care at the lowestpossible
prices several carloads of the best and latest patterns in furniture, rugs and draperies. '
I assure you that if you wait for this showing of splended new things in home furnishings you will feel amply repaid.
BOB CALLAWAY.
