THE BARRE DAILY TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 185.
BARUK, VERMONT, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1910.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
BULGARIANS
PUT TO ROUT
LOSS OF BREMEN
IS SORELY FELT
By Serbians Who Captured
Plateau and Village of Vel
yeselo on Cerna River
HEAVY LOSSES
WERE INFLICTED
Serbians Are Following Up
Important Successes in
Recovering Territory
Paris, Oct. 20. The war office an
nounced to-day that the Serbians have
captured the plateau and village of Vel
ycselo on the western end of the Mace
donian front, putting the Bulgarians to
rout. The statement says that heavy
losses were inflicted on the Bulgarians.
The Serbians captured 100 men and three
cannon.
German Company Has Received No News
of the Submarine and Hope of Her
Safety Has Been Abandoned.
London, Oct. 20. An Exchange Tele
graph dispatch from Amsterdam says a
telegram received there from Bremen
confirms the report that the German
Navigation company has received no
news from the commercial submarine
Bremen, and she is regarded as lost.
It is expected that difficulty will be
experience in obtaining crews for other
commercial submarines which may un
dertake trans-Atlantic voyages. Accord
ing to this information, the sailing of the
Deutsehland on another voyage across
the Atlantic has been cancelled.
FERMENT IN
ATHENS GROWS
Reservists Have Taken Law
into Their Own
Hands
WOOD'S ESCAPADE
BROUGHT TO COURT
HUGHES SILENCES WAR TALK.
Velyeselo is two miles north of Brod
on the t'crna river, the eapture of which
wag announced yesterday by the French
war office.
BRITISH LOST
TRENCHES WON
ON OCTOBER 10
Berlin Official Report Declares That Ger
mans Won Back Territory and Re
pelled British Attacks.
Berlin, bv wireless, Oct. 20.- The
greater part of the trenches on the road
between Eaucourt L'Abbaye and Le
Barque, which were captured by the
British on Oct. 10, were retaken Tester
day bv German troops in an attack, ac
..cording to the official statement. to-day
by the German army headquarters.
Attempts made by British detachments
to advance last night north of Ooureel
lettw and east of LoSara failed, the state
ment adds.
In the last great attack against Ger
man positions in the Somme region the
British" used several "tanks" and three
were destroyed by German artillery lire,
the statement declares.
Regarding the situation in the eastern
war theatre, the statement says that
German troops yesterday stormed impor
tant. Russian positions with adjoining
lines on the west bank of the river Xa
rayuvka in Galicia and repulsed sanguin
ary counter attacks. The German cap
tured 14 officers and 2,000 men and took
11 machine guns. -
The forward movement of the Serbian
forces in the bend of the river Cerna in
southern Serbia has been halted by the
troops of the central powers after tem
porary Serbian success, the 'statement
says.
The battle between the AustroGcr
man forces and the Rumanians on the
frontier ridge of Transylvania is pro
gressing, the statement savs, while in
the Rumanian province bordering the
Black sea the fighting between the Rus-so-Rumaninn
armies and the forces of
the central powers yesterday became
more lively.
A Vote for Him, He Says, Is a Vote for
Permanent Peace.
Saginaw, Mich., Oct. 20. Charles E.
Hughes delivered two speeches at Bay
City yesterday before audiences that
packed the halls where he spoke. The
nominee assailed the administration for.
the Underwood tariff and the Adamson
law and repeated his denial of the
charges that a vote for him meant a vote
for war.
"Men are going abroad in this land,"
Mr. Hughes said, "saying that a vote
for me is a vote for war, because I have
criticised weakness and vaccillation on the
part of the administration. A vote for
me is a vote for permanent peace baBed
on self-respect and the esteem and re
spect to others.
"We have but one desire and that is an
intense desire to go along in bur peace
ful pursuits, promoting our prosperity
and having a just distribution of the
gains of labor, by having a prosperity
upon which we can build a structure of
social justice. Everyone desires peace.
Xo one more than I. Why, I have de
voted all my life to the institutions of
peace; institutions that deal with peace
ful sentiment of controversies.
"But in this world vou have got to
maintain not only your security by prop
er preparation against every emergency,
hot vou have got to maintain vour secur
ity by winning the confidence and esteem
of other nations. We cannot do that if
we do not maintain the dignity of our
citizenship.
"If you want to know the way things
ought not to be done, look at the way
in which they were done in Mexico. That,
to mv mind is an illustration that stands
out in bold relief of the policies of this
administration. It was a meddling with
matters that did not concern us. It was
a failure to maintain American rights."
AUTHORITIES DO
'NOT AID FRENCH
Small Part of Athens Garri
son Joins Revolutionists
FOOTBALL TEAM QUARANTINED.
KAISER PLEASED
AT ALLIES' LOSSES
And He Is Said to Have Showed Great
est Confidence in Outcome of the
War While He Was Visiting
the Champagne Front.
Amsterdam, via London, Oct. 20. Em
peror William visited the Champagne
front Wednesday, according to the Col
ogne Gazette. - He was in excellent spir
its, the newspaper said, and showed the
greatest confidence in the outcome of the
war. Tie expressed lively satisfaction
over the heavy losses of the British and
French.
While at the front the emperor pre
sented General Von Einen, commander of
the Saxon army, with the laurels of the
order Pour Le Merite.
Harvard Substitute Has Symptoms of In
fantile Paralysis. (
Cambridge, Mass., Oct. 20. Members
of the first and second Harvard football
squads were placed under a partial quar
antine last night as a result of the dis
covery that Edwin Ginn of Winchester,
halfback on the second team, had devcl-
icd symptoms of infantile paralysis.
""; members of the squads will not be
, nnitted to leave Cambridge or to at
tend any social functions, although they
may go to class room work and football
practice as usual.
Dr. Roger I. Lee, professor of hygiene,
said that the foothall game with the
Massachusetts Agricultural college elev
en, arranged for next Saturday, would be
played.
London, Oct. 20. Extremely turbulent
conditions at Athens on Wednesday night
were reported in a dispatch from Rou
ter's correspondent, sent that evening.
The reservists had taken the law into
their own hands despite the presence of
strong entente detachments of marines,
who were given virtually no assistance
by the Greek authorities in maintaining
order, the dispatch declares.
The message reads: "It is evident
that the reservists are out of hand. The
chief of the French police control has
informed the editors of the anti-Veni-
zelos press that beginning to-morrow the
French will exercise newspaper censor
ship and newspapers printing anti-entente
articles run the risk of suspension."
iwenty-tive officers and 000 men of the
Athens garrison have gone over to the
national movement and have left for
Suloniki, according to an Exchange Tel
egraph dispatch from Athens to-day.
J he new spapers announce, the mes
sage adds, "tliat Janina in Greek Epirus
has also gone over to the revolutionists
but official confirmation is lacking."
Athens, Thursday, via London, Friday,
Oct. 20. The afternoon newspapers to
day publish a letter said to have been
sent by the American consul at Saloniki
to M. Politis, foreign minister of the pro
visional government established by the
former premier Venizelos, expressing
"sincere hope of being able to continue
with the de facto government the cor
dial relations heretofore existing between
the authorities and this consulate."
Venizelos adherents claim this consti
tutes a recognition of the provisional
government by the I'nited States. The
American minister, Garrett Droppers, de
nies thst any consul was authorized to
do more than to cultivate essential re
lations with the de facto authorities in
Mytilene and Crete, as well as in Sa
loniki.
Arraigned on Charge of Raising Money
Order His Bride Loyal Despite
His Deceptions.
Concord, X. H., Oct. 20 Richard Carle
ton Wood of Falmouth, Mass., was ar
raigned before I'nited States CommlS'
sioner Burns P. Hodgman, late yester
day afternoon on a warrant charging him
with altering a postoffice money order,
He was held in $l,00f) bail for further
hearing next Monday morning before
the commissioner,
Wood was accompanied to Concord by
his bride of two days, their honeymoon
having been exclusively in the company
of two deputy sheriffs, at the Walpole
hotel, since shortly after the now fa
mous wedding supper, at which practi
cally all of the storekeepers of Bellows
Falls and the commercial travelers who
happened to be stopping in the hotel,
were specially lnvitea guests.
I nited States Marshal KTiarles J.
O'Neil brought Wood to Concord from
Walpole, arriving here at 3:20 oclock.
Mrs. Wood insisted on staving with her
husband until the arrival here both of
them apparently looking upon the rais-
intr a dollar money order to $1,000 as a
Tat her trivial, though foolish proceeding,
Commissioner Hodgman had nn
LOOK AT RECORD, SAYS WILSON.
"All You Have to Do is Say What You
Think of It," He TeUs Crowd.
South Bend, Ind., Oct. 20. A steady
until
pressed upon them that even if it was
conceived foolishly, it Viad developed into
a very serious matter. '
The full force of this did not come
homo to them until the commissioner
mentioned $1,000 bail or a stay in jail.
Then Wood became very nervous and
had to be comforted by his wife. He
said he had $2,400 in a checking account
at the Shawmut National bank in Bos
ton anil after considerable talk, Mrs.
Wood suggest! that she go to Fal
mouth to get the bank book and take a
check to the bank for the money. Wood
wrote a check for the full amount, using
one of Commissioner llodgman's checks
on a local bank, by crossing out the name
ot the bank here and substituting the
Shawmut bank.
Wood went about this hesitatingly and
declined to write it until his wife put her
foot down and insisted, telling him that
he had been telephoning friends for two
days without results, when he wished to
try the telephone again. However, after
the check had been written and Mr
Wood was about to start for the
o'clock train. Wood broke down and con
fessed he had no funds at the Shawmut
bank, and that he was sending his wife
on a tool s errand. Apparently she had
believed that he had money as he has
claimed all along.
Mrs. Wood is an attractive young
woman and the sympathy of the offi
cials went out to her. She left on the 5
o'clock train for Boston wjiere she has
friends and said she hoped to return
with bail for her husband. Wood went
to pieces during the proceedings and his
wife went to him to comfort him, telling
him to "brace up and be a man." She
bent over and kissed him affectionately
as she was leaving.
Wood said he got the money order at
Walpobt making it payable to Jack
Stoddard, his foreman in the electr1-"!
MAY EXHUME
GIRL'S BODY
Because Not Satisfied Rose
Willetts Committed
Suicide
A SENSATION
IN BURLINGTON
George Willetts, Her Broth
er, Asks That Autop
sy Be Held
rain failed to discourage a large crowd lop at Falmouth, to
MONTPELIEK
SHOULDN'T MEDDLE.
United States Ought to Let Mexicans
Fight it Out.
Elmira, X. Y., Oct. 20. Secretary of
War Newton D. Baker, speaking in this
city last night on behalf of the Wilson
administration, said we should let the
Mexicans carry their revolutions; we car
ried on ours in the great American rebel
lion against England. With respect to
the European war, he said, "When two
people are fighting we should not be too
particular about our rights, but should
wait until the fight is over and then take
up our grievances."
Secretary Baker spoke of the accom
plishments of the present administration
at Washington enumerating the various
measures that have been enacted into
law. He dwelt with emphasis on the
benefits to be derived from such laws as
the federal reserve act, the rural credits
law, the income tax, the child labor law
and others which he credited to the Wil
son regime.
EACH SMILED BROADLY.
Wilson and Bryan Met and Shook Hands
in Pittsburg.
rittsburg. Pa., Oct. 20. President Wil
son and William J. Bryan met to-day
for the first time in months, in the
course of speaking tours. Bryan went
to Wilson'B private car and as they
shook hands each smiled broadly. A
large crowd outside witnessed the meeting-
In probate court to-day Albert C. Tap
lin settled his account as administrator
of the estate of William Lewis, late of
Moretown. John J. Sowles of Barre was
appointed guardian of Myron G. Bates of
Plainneld.
Mrs. William MeCaskill, who has been
ill at Jier home, 73 Main street, for the
past week, is much improved.
George Smith has returned from Bos
ton, where he spent several days on bus
iness and was accompanied home by his
nephew, Charles Sumner Spanlding, who
will visit his grandparents, Mr. and
Mrs. C. A. Smith.
William O'Grady, station agent at
Montpelier Junction, commenced a ten
days' vacation yesterday, which he will
spend in Boston and Xew York.
Mrs. Irene Michael and two daughters
of 33 Main street left this forenoon for
Boston, where they will visit relatives.
Robert Ford is taking a week's vaca
tion from his duties in the local freight
office of the Central Vermont Railway
company, which he is spending in Bos
ton. The boiler to be placed in the new
state building, a product of the Robert
Iron company of Cambridgeport, Mass.,
which greeted President Wilson here. A
band played, and from a temporary stand
a speaker welcomed the president. Smil
ing, the president waved to the crowd.
In his remarks here the president said
he considered that the issues of the cam
paign are now well defined.
"The record is all made up and all you
have to do is say what you think of it,"
he said, speaking from the rear platform
of his car. "I have forgotten how to make
campaign speeches," he continued. "Jf I
made a speei-h I should have to fell you
what I think of myself, and that I can
not do.
"It is very delightful to have such re
ceptions as you give me to-day and as I
have been going all along the road. It
makes me feel very close to the folks
that I have been trying to work for that
they should come out with such cordiali
ty and I thank you for it from the bot
torn of my heart."
BIG RESORT FIRE.
Damage of $200,000 Done at Watch Hill,
R. I.
Watch Hill, R. I., Oct. 20. Three sum
mer hotel and two cottages were de
stroyed last night by a fire which threat
ened the business section of the village
and caused ft loss estimated at more than
$200,000. The hotels burned were the
New Watch Hill house, Colonial hotel
and the Columbia house. The cottages
were owned by William C. Hastings of
Yonkers, X. Y., and Miss Julia Bush of
Troy, N. Y. All the hotels had been
closed for the season.
The fire started In a manner not yet
determined, in the west wine of the New
arrived in the city yesterday afternoon Watch Hill house, a four-story wooden
and was transported to the state lot this structure containing 150 rooms. Helped
by a 50-mile wind, the flames soon Ie-
ESCAPED CONVICTS RETAKEN.
Six Who Fled from Sing Sing Back Be
hind Bars Again.
0ininc X. Y.. Oct. 20. Sir Sing Sing
convicts who escaped ye-terday with the
aid ol an automobile truck were all cap-
tared and returned to their cells to-dajr. agent.
forenoon,
Installation of officers of Montpelier
oouncil, Knights of Columbus, will take
place Sunday evening, with Deputy W.
V. Scully of Burlington in charge.
H. T. Sands of Boston, general mana
ger of the Tenney company is spending
a few days in Montpelier and vicinity
on businees.
Lynn Hays of Burlington arrived in
the city this morning and will assist in
the headquarters of the Republican state
committee during the next few weeks.
Walter Mason, son of Mrs. Dwight
Mason of Main street, is seriously ill
at Hcaton hospital with pneumonia.
Mrs. R. N. harquarson and little son,
who have been visiting in the city for
ten days with her mother, left this
forenoon for Philadelphia to join her hus
band, Lieut. Farquarson.
Mr. and Mrs. A. Bernadini of Alain
street and Mr. and Mrs. Diversi of Con
cord, X. H., returned to-day from Mon
treal, where they passed the week, mak
ing the trip by automobile.
Edward Bero, who has been employed
for several months at Hartford, Conn.,
has returned to Montpelier to make an
extended visit with relatives.
Gerald Taylor continues to improve
at Heaton hospital, where he has been I
confined for the past seven weeks, and
will probably be removed to his home on
First avenue the first of next week.
C D. Waters, general freight agent
of the Montpelier & Wells Riyer railroad.
has returned from Boston, where he at
tended a meeting of the Xew England
stroyed that structure and spread to the
Hastings cottage. Mrs. Hastings, who
was ill" in. bed in the cottage, was re
moved to a building outside the path of
the fire. She is in a critical condition.
The other occupants, including Mr. Hast
ings and seven servants, were able to
save only a few personal belongings.
CORN AND WHEAT UP AGAIN.
May Wheat $1.694 in Chicago, Highest
Since War Began.
Chicago, Oct. 20. Wheat continued its
upward awing yesterday. December,
after opening down seven-eighths, gained
three and five-eighths, touching ll.tW.J,.
May opened up one-fourth and suW
quently gained one and three-fourths,
selling at $1.6!Vi. the highest price eince
the Kuropean war began.
Corn jumped with wheat.
pay for il s
Stoddard had advanced. He had no no
tion of raising it when he got the mon
ey order, he declared and raised it to
stall off the storekeepers he had made
large purchases from in Bellows Falls
and the proprietor of the Went worth
house in Walpole, for the spread he gave
his wedding guests.
He said he had lost his check bock
at Walpole and Mrs. Wood declared he
had one when they went there. Inci
dentally it. came out that Mrs. Wood
paid the clergyman who married them,
endorsing a small cheek that had been
given her by her employer before she
set off for Bellows rails to be married.
She did this, she said, because Wood had
suddenly lost his check book, which was
.mislaid in the oflice of the hotel at
Walpole.
Wood had only $3 when he reached
here and two of that went to his wife
for her fare to Boston. He said he would
like to be placed in custody of a keeper
and stay at a hotel pending the arrival
of his friends with money, but it was
decided to take him to jail until the bail
is forthcoming.
All of the goods purchased have been
returned, except a suit of clothes Wood
was wearing and.he wedding ring, which
the jeweler did not have the heart to
taRe away from the bride.
While at Walpole, after his arrest.
Wood gave the sheriffs a check on the
Shawmut bank for $!l."8.48, with which
to settle up the bills he had contracted
in Bellows Falls and Walpole, He told
Marshal O'Neil coming on the train yes
terday that he told the sheriff not to
present the check for payment but when
questioned by Commissioner Hodgman
said be did not know why it had not been
ashed. .
Wood and his bride, then Miss Lil
lian Knowles of Fall River, went to Bel
Burlington, Oct. 20. An entirely new
version of the death of Miss Rose D. Wil-
etts, the beautiful 18-year-old daughter
of Mrs. George W. Willetts of Glovers-
ville, X. Y., then living at 234 Main
street in this city, which occurred on
Sept. 13 at the office in the coal yards at
the foot of South f'hamplain street of
her brother-in-law, John K. Deyette of
2!) Xorth Champlain street, and which
was officially recorded as a ease of sui
cide, following an unsuccessful attempt
by snooting to take the life of Mr. Dey-
tte, came to light yesterday. The new
tory first developed when George Wil-
etts of Gloveraviile, X. Y., a brother of
he dead girl, asked State's Attorney
Hopkins to order the lrndy of Miss Wil
letts to be exhumed from its grave in
the Gloversville cpmetery and that an
autopsy be held, stating frankly that the
Willetts family were not at ail satisfied
with the way the case had been disposed
of by the local authorities, and more
than hinting that his sister had not died
by her own hand.
When Mr. Hopkins stated that he had
no authority to order such action to be
taken in Xew York, other members of
the Willetts family stated that the au
topsy would be held, probably on Satur
day, and that whatever evidence should
be found would be reported to Mr. Hop
kins. It is reported that in addition to
the one bullet wound which it was said
was found just below the right temple,
there was another wound on the body
and that it also bore marks of violence,
particularly about the throat, indicating
that the girl had been strangled. An ab
sence of motive for such a rash act as
is attributed to Miss Willetts and an en-1
tirely different reason for her being at!
the coal yards, other than that formerly
given, which was that 'she went there to
shoot Mr. Deyette, will all be brought
into the case as fresh evidence.
There had been considerable trouble
between John E. Deyette and his wife,
Miss Willetts' sister, which was to have
culminated in Mrs. Deyette's filing of a
divorce petition three days after Miss
Willetts died. Miss Willetts was help
ing her sister secure evidence for this
suit and it is now maintained that it
was for that purpose that she went to
Deyette's office and not to attempt to
take Deyette's life. Mrs. Devette had
planned to accompany her to the office.
ut was unable to do so that morning
and as the time was drawing near when
the suit would have to be filed, Miss Wil
letts went alone.
It was Mr. Deyette's custom to spend
the morning traveling about the city in
his automobile collecting bills, leaving
his father, Alexander J. Deyette, in
charge of the office. The senior Deyette
was not fond of staying in the office, as
le could neither read nor write, and
usually spent the morning in the yards
watching the men. Miss Willetts went
to the office expecting to find it unoccu
pied and to le able to secure evidence
which she desired and leave the yards
unseen. What happened when she ar
rived there that day and found John E.
Devette in the office may never be known.
When the shooting occurred, it. was be
lieved that it resulted from Miss Wil
letts' brooding over slanders which she
believed that John E. Deyette had cir
dilated concerning her, and that this
brooding had so affected her mind that
she determined to take both Mr. Dey
ette's life and her own. This theory is
ridiculed by members of the Willetts
family, who point out that such a beau
tiful and accomplished girl as their sis
ter, who had an irreproachable character,
would have no motive for such an act.
to her last evening. Mrs. Deyette was
also given temporary alimony of $30 per
month and furniture enough for two
rooms, pending the trial of her divorce
suit, which will probably be heard at the
.March term of court. The father is to
be allowed to see the child at all reason
able times ami- the custody is given to
the mother only pending the outcome of
the divorce suit.
DELEGATES RETURN HOME.
After Convention of Vermont and New
Hampshire Foresters.
Vermont and Xew Hampshire Fores
ters, who were here this week for the an
nual convention of the high court, I. O.
F., began leaving for their homes yester
day afternoon, adjournment having been
taken immediately after the election of
officers in the noon hour. The roster of
delegates present reached 100 before the
final session. W ith the division of the
two states into separate jurisdiction, the
high court officers of each state withdrew
after their election and discussed tenta
five plans for the coming year. In nei
ther state is the meeting place for 1917
definitely fixed, although several invita
tions are to be considered by the high
court of Vermont, decision in the matter
having been left with the executive offi
cers. Delegates and officers alike were en
thusiastic over the reception accorded
them in Barre and the hospitality dis
played by the Board of Trade.. A commit
tee from the two high courts waited on
the officers of the Board of Trade yes
terday afternoon and thanked them
warmly for their kindness.
FOUND DEAD .
BENEATH LIGHT
Peter Marcotte Was Electro
cuted in Montpelier
. T ay
WAS TRr XING
f iTREET LAMP
REPUBLICAN RALLY PLANNED.
Congressman Dale Expected to Be One of
the Speakers.
Barre is to have at least one politi
cal rally this year as a result of a move
made last night by the Republican city
committee. On the evening of Thurs
day, Nov. 2, Porter II. Dale of Island
Pond, congressman from the second dis
trict, and Horace F. Graham of Crafts
bury, Republican candidate for the gu
bernatorial chair, will speak in the opera
house. The speechmaking will not be
confined to state issues, it is understood.
Effort to book an out-of-the-state
speaker for thesecond rally in Barre
were unsuccessful, as the state commit
tee has few speakers of national prom
inence at its disposal. Rutland drew ex
President Taft for a one-night stand and
a few other speakers outside of Vermont
have been assigned already.
He Hac";? een Employed by
Tenney Co. Only a
Short Time
FUNERAL OF JOHN BIANCHI.
Was Attended by Many of His Country
men Yesterday.
The funeral of John Bianchi, a veteran
of the Italian-Austrian war of 1868,
w hose death occurred at his home, 3 Cot
tage street, Tuesday morning, was held
at the house Thursday afternoon at 2
o'clock. A delegation from the Italian
Old Men's Benevolent society, to which
Mr. Bianchi belonged, attended the fu
neral, six of their number acting as pall
bearers and six as honorary bearers.
There were many floral tributes. The bear
ers were: f. Gorxi, G. Oltolini, A. Ab
biatti, C. Merlo, P. Cnverelli and R. Mar
casi. Interment was made in Hope cemetery.
TALK OF THE TOWN
Arden Hay ward of Williamstown was
a business visitor in the city this morn
ing. A. Bartlett, formerly of Hardwick,
commenced work as a clerk in the F. H.
Rogers & Co. store this morning.
Miss Frances Blake, who has been vis
iting friends in the city for a few days,
left this morning for her home in Bur
lington. H. H. Ryder returned to his home in
Somerville, Mas., to-day after spending
several days in Barre and vicinity on
business.
George Lightner left this morning for
points in New York, Pennsylvania and
Xew Jersey on a business trip in the in
terests of the Barclay Bros.' granite con
cern. The condition of Dr. V. C. Goodrich,
who has been quite critically ill at his
home on Washington street, was report
ed to be slightly improved to-day, al
though it is expected that he will be con
fined to the house for some time.
A well known parcel of Brook street
realty, the McKeowin house, so called, at
No. 21, fisrured in a realty deal to-day
Peter Marcotte of Montpelier, an em
ploye of the Tenney company, was elec
trocuted to-day while trimming a street
light at the corner of Pearl and Winter
streets in Montpelier, just 100 yards
from the place on Pearl street where Mr.
Gokey was killed in like manner nine
years ago. Xo one saw Marcotte fall, so
far as known, but William Gregory, who
is employed by the Stone market, saw
the body as it lay in the road beneath
the light. Just a few minutes before
that Gregory, on entering the house, had
seen Marcotte standing beside the light
and working over it.
Word was sent at once to the Tenney
office and C. E. Cookson, an officer of the
company, rushed to the scene with a lung
motor, fcfforts were made with this in
strument for some time, but to no avail.
as also were the efforts of Dr. C. E. Hunt.
When it was decided that there was no
hope, the body was removed to the un-
lertaking rooms of D. T. Wilton to await
the completion of arrangements for the
funeral. The accident happened at 10:20
o'clock.
Marcotte had been working for the
Tenney company three months. It is
understood he told Joseph Gasrow, who
tends the electric lights regularly, where
he was going to work and asked that
the current in that section be turned off.
When General Manager Lan-abee of the
company was seen early this afternoon
he had no statement to make, but said
he might later.
The victim was 32 years old, his birth
day having been yesterday, and had
always resided in Montpelier, where he
was born. Prior to entering the employ
ment of the Tenney company he was en
gaged in the trucking business. He
leaves his wife, who was Ruth Wilson,
and one daughter, Lucy, aged five years;
also a half-sister, Mrs. George E. Ma
grath, and a sister-in-law, Mrs. L. K.
Marcotte. The brother, L. K. Marcotte,
died less than a year ago in Montpelier.
THOMAS R. McLEAN.
when David Henderson, a regular officer
The family ii" regarded with the high- in the police force, purchased the prop-
cst respect in Gloversville. X. Y., and the lerty from Mrs. Walter C. Douglas, Mrs.
feeling m that town with reference to Robert Wright end William McKeowin.
the case is very bitter. Mr. and Mrs
John W. Grant and Mr. and Mrs. George
Willetts, who have been in Burlington
during the hearing of a petition brought
by Mrs. John E. Deyette in county court
to recover the custody of her three-year-old
daughter and to receive temporary
alimony pending the trial of her divorce
suit, which will le heard at the March
lnna Fulls in nli automobile from the E
R. Hamblen garage and driven by Irmi jterm of county court, left last evening
Luce. Luce said that Wood borrowed I f'T Gloversville, X. Y.. stating that the
from him in course of the trip and I matter would bo silted to tne ootiom.
the chauffeur was left stranded in- Wal- ! Mrs. Deyette was successful in her peti-
pole until his employer wired him mon
ey to pay his way back home.
BETTING TIGHTENS.
Odds on Hughes Getting Smaller as Elec
tion Day Approaches.
Xew York, Oct. 20. Election betting
odds tightened yesterday and some bets
at 10 to 9 on Hughes were reported.
Hughes money came out at that figure
and the betting then veered from 10 to S I
tion. the exact results ot wnicn are stat
ed elsewhere.
Officer Henderson will hold the property
for investment purposes and the price
paid was in the vicinity of $3,500. It is
a two-tenement house, occupied at the
present time by the family of Mrs.
Douglas and Mrs. Wright. The new-
owner plans to make improvements and
alterations to the house lief ore opening
it for rental around Xov. I.
Lamoille county men with H. W. Var
num of Jeffersonville and Barre as one
of the moving spirits are planning an
automobile tour to Smugglers' Notch
early in the coming week and plans al
ready made for the excursion indicate
Funeral of Former Graniteville Man Held
in Montpelier.
Thomaa R. McLean of Xorthfield, for
merly of Graniteville, died suddenly Mon
day afternoon about 4:30 o'clock. He
was born in Bury, P. Q., Aug. 15, 1846.
When a young man, he came to Vermont
and was employed at St. Johnsbury,
where he married Emily Wilton on July
1874. Besides his wife he leaves four
children, W. J. McLean, employed in the
Union Clothing store of this city, Mrs.
Frank Carr of Northficld, Miss. Bertha
McLean, principal of the Howe grammar
school, Methuen, Mass.. and Mrs. Charles
Gale of Littleton, X. H.; also two grand
children, William and Maurice McLean of
Montpelier; a brother, J. W. McLean' of
Dawson City, Alaska; two sisters, Mrs.
C. C. Stewart of Hardwick and Mrs. A.
B. Polk of Winnipeg, Man.
Mr. McLean came to Barre Town 27
years ago and for 22 years was employed
as a tool sharpener by Jones Bros.' Quar
ry company. Two years ago last May he
ceased work because of poor health and
for the past year the family had resided
in Xorthfield.
He was a charter member of Hiawatha
lodge, I. O. O. F., and of Bright Star Re
bekah lodge, and three years ago he re
ceived a medal from I. O. O. F. lodge for
being 25 years a charter member.
The funeral, which was held Thursday,
waa largely attended by relatives and
friends. Services were conducted by a
family friend. Rev. Edgar Crossland, pas
tor of the I"resbyterian church of this
city, and a delegation from the I. O. O.
F. The bearers were Kenneth .Mcnoi-
... . . .... , it t r
son. arner it. v neeier oi me i. v.
F., John Smith and Norman Murray of
Graniteville, Neal Richmond and Mr.
AValker of Xorthfield. Interment was in
the Northficld Center cemetery.
The fl ral pieces were many and beau
tiful, including a wreath, with mono
gram, I. 0. O. F., a spray of white roses
pink roses from the Methuen Teachers
club.
According to the local autnormcs ui t)al a ,arjJf, nximr of men from cen
were no circumstances connected with(rtlI yprmont Bre t participate. It is
the death of Miss Rose W illetts to w-ar- , plannf(, to have thp ,ourjs,s mwt at Jef
rant an autopsy and none had been asked frrsonvilIe and proceed thence to the
TEARFUL SCENES ENACTED.
As Lawyers Pleaded in George W. Dun
can Murder TriaL
Rutland, Oct. 20. The argument of
State's Attorney ('. V. Poulin to convince
the jury that George W. Duncan of this
city should go to the electric chair for
shooting his wife. Melinda Catm.in Dun
can in Rutland August 5, l!16, and the
summing up of the evidence of Attorney
Ernest If. O'Brien and Joseph C. Jones ,
in support oi their claim that Wnncan ; . . -., but that th ev belieye it I matter ot milking, the manager
was insa. e when he bred the shot and ; , "f onr . ,lflr,e,a expense and ! wmM ' 'ng permanently U discard
therefore not guilty of murder as tlist there will' be no new development, j a milking machine that was installed on
iiut-u ip mw, m"vMni j"Jirruv ill
STATE SUES MILK COMPANY.
Claims that Conditions of Bond Were
Not Complied With.
Burlington, Oct. 20. The case of Guy
W. Bailey, secretary of state, and Walter
F. Scott, state treasurer, creamery com
missioners for the state against the Bos
ton Condensed Milk company as princi
pal and the New Knirland Casualty com
pany as surety, was tiled at the office of
who expect to go their first opportunity j th cl(,rk f poty rmn yesterday. The
for by the taniuy. ine fkmiv was en. , ,nolIntaimi whie jrivers return the cars
by the health officer, Dr. K J. Enms and j to . int t lm? op)l(lsitp em, of ,he
another physician and before being tak- notrh- T)le t0ur will offer many of those
en to Gloversville tor ouriai was em-
. i , . , r f ,
!alme,l at tne unnerui King rooms oi , . . f ir inpH.tinK the natural beauties of
W. Gurney. There was only one bullet tht Not'oh A pnrfv of arrl wi
wound, which was in the head, and no i . b,y (.ave the',.itv for Jeffersonville
marks of violence upon the body, accord- ; ' , jjon,,aV morning.
-.. , ; ..'; that H,v If all the hired men who stop at the conditions of the bond given the state in
... . i . Morrison farm on west hill were as nro- ll,.j ! .li.l not tile certain reauired
i would IH- most wining to nave an aim..- ; ,- , . i. i . -- - -
sv if there was the slightest suspicion of """ " '"r ""T 'r uairj men in statements inn opera. i..r i-nrra, mi-
uinii-i ! iiiimiitK. in- mnnacer rr and conoeneo iiiiik f'iuiiiiy wiiim
the state without a license.
suit is one of contract in which the cream
ery commissioners sue for $73,000. It
iset up in the papers that the com
pany has failed to Keep inn prrrorm m
land county court, where the young lvtel
keeper has been on trial since October
10.
The crowded court room witnessed an
impressive spectacle when, as counsel al
luded to Mrs. Duncan and to acts of the
the case.
the farm some time ago. Just now the
vacuum milker is not being ued and this
fact is due measureably to the agility of
lerrv Kmerson, a voune farmhand, w hoe
Mrs. Deyette Given Custody of Child,
Judge E. L. Waterman, presiding judge activity in extracting the lacteal fluid
at the present term of Chittenden county J from Mr. Morrison's cows each morning
court, vesterday decided the petition i and evening is a eource of amaiement to
respondent, Duncan wept and his seven-1 brought by Mrs. John E. Deyett of 2the oth-r members of the milking crew.
year-old son. impressed hy the sight of,x-rtli Champlain street, to dissolve the j Mr. Kmerson a record of having milked
CLAIMED BY THREE WOMEN.
John F. Cooley Goes to State Prison for
Two Years' Term.
St. Albans. Oct. 20. -In Franklin coun
ty court yesterday Judge v illard .
Miles -f Burton sentenced John F. Cool
ey to wrve not less than two nor more
to 10 to 9. Odde of 10 to 7 that nuphes'his fathers distress and tl. tears of hi i injunction obtained bv her husband Sept. (12 bovines in 55 minutes was hung up: than tnree year in ine state prison.
would carry Xew York state, similar j grandmother, who sat close by. climled -2. preventing her from interfering with!one evening recently when a little co- ! Cooley pleaded guilty Tuesday to an in
odds that Hughes would carry New Jer-) into the accu-ed man's lap. threw his , bis custody of the couple's three-year-old j terie of hired men wagered on the feat, j formation tiled by State s Attorney S. S.
sey and evtn money on Ohio were report- arms about Duncan's neck and cried with daughter. Kuirenie. in favor of Mrs. Dry- 'He ays he can liettcr the record and is jdihing. charging bigamy. Three women
ed. liis head on his father'a aUouldvr, etta, and ordered the chiUi le restored waiting for more wagers. claimed Cwuiegr as husband.
