,. ii. Jiugbeo
Columbus is the Only Port of Entry and Natural Gateway From Old Mexico into New Mexic
Vol. VI.
I en Pages
Columbus. Luna C o-ii.n New Mexico. October 20. 1910.
No. 18
LOONS MUST
ALL CLOSE ON
OCTOBER 31
CHEMICAL ENGINES NOW ,
HEADY FOR BUSINESS
"WHY WORRY-ITS NOT AN ISSUE"
The chemical fire engines be
longing to the city, which arriv-!
ol several days uko. have been
net up and arc ready to do their
work m cane a (ire breaks out.
Order issued by the mayor to .They were stored and no one
effect that all near beer joints) seemed to think anything about
must close with this month. , them until the little lire Tues
Means ureal reduction in the day evening. The villas trus
villnge revenue. tees liad a meetinjr that eve-
, ning and the first business eon-!
Notice whs served upon the Uldored was getting out those
proprietors of all places in town (ire fighters and getting them so
where the drink known as near they would be of some tme to
eer is sold Wednesday to the i the city. One of the extinguish
ffeet that the places would all era will bo kept in the lower part
have to close on October 31st. i of town near the Crystal Thoa
fhurc is about eighteen or twen- ter and the other up near the
y place in town effected by the nostoltlce. A large number of
.rder. The village ha bn real- small extingushors are being in
zing $50 per month in revenue stalled in the business houses,
rom this business, or a total The equipment for the new
.1' $900 to $1,000 per month, village well has all been install-
The improvements started by.ed and with the increased water
tirll P. IS SOME
GOVERNOR !
lie trustees will have to be cut
diort now on the account of the
lack of funds. The water prob
lem should now take care of its
self. The sum of 2,500.00
lias been spent during the last
three months for water mains,
tank and tower, etc., and the
ystem will shortly be in very
good condition for supplying the
village with water.
It is hard to imagine the mo
tive for putting the lid on so
tight now. One of the reasons
given in the order is that tho
question of the removal of the
troops has arisen over the near
heoi- nlaces. This is without a
doubt a misiaae. unions a know can learn bv
is desired wnere me reai gouus
oan be purchased. Columbus is I
the only town on the border we
know of that is supposed to bo
Iry except throughout the state
if' Arizona. We' have it from a
revenue man that there is more
booze being sold in the towns
in Arizona where soldier w
located than in many towns
where the business is legalized.
There is no kick in El Paso and
Doming, where then' is open sa
loons about the booze sold to
soldiers and the talk of the re
moval on thi
bosh. It hns
pressure much better fire pro
tei tion is assured. Tho plugs
are being installed just as rap
idly as possible.
RETURNS WITH HAM
FROM EXHIBITION
Lee A. Riggs went down to El
Paso first of the week for a vis
it to the exposition, remaining
only one day. He has many in
teresting things to tell of what
he saw. but most interesting
of all is a ham which he brought
back to Columbus with him. We
do not care to tell how ho came
bv it but those who desire to
asking Mr
Jr igowPi 1111 , m. Jj a
v w .rt- an' ssivxu
1 fjK 1
"If E. C. de Baca Is Elected He Will Make the Same Kind of
a Governor I Have Been.-W. C. McDonald.
MEETING OF BAP'lIST ! CITIZENS WANT COM- ! MEN FINED FOR ILLE-
CHURCH MEMBERS, MERCIAL ORGANIZATION I GAL SALE OF LIQUOR
The Baptist people and friends Several of the Columbus bus- j The following cases were dis
arc requested to meet in the i iness men and citizens are wak- posed of in police court this
home of J. W. Blair on Monday ling up to tho fact that we are week:
evoning ot the 23d mst. at 7 :.10 badly in need of a commercial George York, charged with as.
Riirtra. Mrs. Ritrirs and the two
children are in El Paso during sharp. Important business to organization. We have stood by sault and battery .fined $10 and nri"T i'h whnL,lnM
the exposition visiting with he transacted. This will be the the wayside and seen other costs. ,,nrf ti,. H.l,
DEEP WELL TO
BE COMPLETED
IN NEAR FUTUR
Has purchased largest drillit
rig in the state of Texas ar
expects to ship Hanie to (.
lunibus if people come throun
with leases as promised.
The chances for a thoroug
test for oil in the Lower Mil)
bres arc again looking good. Tl
well started several months at
, was discontinued and E. '
Knilllin. the promoter of tl
project, had almost decided t
leave the field. George Petet
finally persuaded him to drill
providing he could secure son
more leases., and Knillin is a
' this time busy signing up lease
for the property he desires.
Air. lvnilnn would not agrt
iu uu .ui,) mini; in int; uiai jmu
unless he could secure a certai.
acreage in the vicinity of th
Anderson well where oil wa
first found. The acreage desir
ed was promised very readilj
but when the little matter
signing came up many absolut
ly refused to do the act. Mr
Kniflin had already been put t
an enormous expense so he do
cided to begin operations, think
ing those who had given hin
their word would come in later
This never did materalize. so h
finally gave up hopes and dis
continued drilling and had pra
tically completed arrangement
for making a test well in Texas
A meeting was called last Sat
relatives.
WALLACE BARBER SHOP
HAS SMALL FIRE
they want Chuck Connors, fined $5 and ftl
.is time we 'costs for being drunk and dis-; le -Si easily seln
i what was orderly. Y. V. r W j? VI J! "
The harbor shop belonging to!EN,) VoKm
Frank II. Wallace ono-half block
east of the postoflice. caught on
fire Tuesday evening and would
have soon gone up in smoke had
.' h .. . -i i Kit.l li her nrohloms.
lie talk ot tne re- it not neon lor me rapiu worn .--7,, . lt,jera will see
s account is all of the soldiers who happened to .vo T like &ood money
only been a short' be near and the civilian, who Jen the hon eats km hke
plain Van Sclmick are located near. The building1"." " ' u ll TL , him in his p
lust mooting of th present mis-, towns go after what
sionary. Every member should and get it, and all thi
make special effort to be in this have just boon taking what was orderly.
meeting. . E. DAV?, Mm. .handed us and saying nothing. M. McGovorn and C. A. Hoi-
( There seems to be among some j land paid mok into the vil-
01 us a spiru 01 jeaiousy, oi- jage treasury lor iteming in
something on that order, most liquors.
everyone being afraid to under- Walter Moore dug up 10
take to do anything for fear it in addition to tho costs, on a
will benefit someone else more charge of vaerancv.
How do'tnan themsehes. and aj'ain otli-
win see some man wnn u ruurviJA 1 lUA 1..AI1J run
IN SISTER REPUBLIC
T. A. Hulsey has the dope on
when Mexico will be able to
time since ianiani van m-iiuim an- .-. ... Uk. , . . ,,,. u u i.
complimenteil the town and said Was damaged to the extent or,"-"" knit8 "v0oien sox And the '"B to plan some way to kill off new Baptist church has been l. "Vwi bo s thinned has n .
I.... .na lna Jmnv.. hoiifflnbout S100 and there was at rupin anna wooiui sox. m. iB illlttJa Tla snirit ia nnt im tn,,n,nttnna i,m.nni Ullc"' .wl 00 snipped nas no
making proposition BAPTIST CHURCH
of re.ioicing with
prosperity, begin try- The construction work of the hllt t,, ,!': ., ,,, .
that if ho left the field without
knowing what it contained after
spchdingabout"!5G,000 the chan
ces of getting someone else to
undertake the job would be ver
slim.
Mr. Kniflin has purchased
well drilling rig that is said t.
be the largest in tho state ot
Texas, and also a car load ot
pipe. The same has been loaded
and is ready to be sent forward
hare is outrun by the nn." '"'"" '" "J J"1": ; ",u "" "'"K'been fully decided, and will n..
When tho soi-pont walks upright umvorwil by any means but it , been laid, and the walls started. , be ul , , definitely his
like men. And the docile bugs ' I18 b.ocnl manifested right here A.niost enough money has been how h , , hc , b b,
travel like frogs. Vh"ii grass-
!" .. .. 1 : il. ..,. ,. 110DDU1S leeil Ull lliu urn .nun
in Deming are indirectly rospon- ng uuu-o 10 m u b.w u, -.v f , n
sible for the order. Whether J had not waited for the blaze t0lt-'ltne's 1011,111 0,1 uu nt
there is any truth in the report go out. The explosion occurred I
sold here than any place lie had least $50 worth of laundry lost
ever seen under similar condi- Hie lire started from tne e.
tjona (plosion of a gasolene heater.
The idea that certain officers, wineii Wallace was lining, uav
If the leases are all
iu .,( Vnwn l.v ns. I in the back room but spread to ONLY TWO MORE DAYS
' It 110 doubt will bring about I the front of tho shop, burning: FOR REGISTRATION
some court decisions. If the 'the wall paper, and the heat was 1 The registration books will be
court says near beer is an in-iso intense that the glass in tlte open onjy tvvo more days. Sat
toxicant the local ollkers never front was broken from its ef- arday. October 21st and Satur
had a right to legalize the bus-! feet. da. October 2Sth. IT is im-
mouo If it i not an intoxicat-1 nortar.i that your nam oe on
.i..inb tin. nlnrns cannot be . . the books, and
closed anv more than a soda i ti,e illegal sale of whiskey can vote this fall you had better bo
fountain or a grocery store. oc stopped then there should be certain that you are registered
It is n question for the courts ,10 objections raised tor closing as required by law. lhe books
to decide, however, and the de- out nem. boor, but this cannot I are at Judge Peach s office and
cision will be awaited with a be done under present conditions will be open t rem nine o clock
considerable amount of interest. , iUU anvono knows that it is oa- in the morning until twelve noon
There is no question about the sjcr t0" handle the situation by and from two to six 0 clock 111
town being much more quiet and allowing a non-intoxicant sold the afternoon.
orderly when the men can sat- jf it will satisfy tho thirst than
isfy their thirst with two per to open a wholesale market for
lent than when they depend on bootleggars.
in Columbus. paid in to complete the job and 1 Kl ia
The trouble is we have no roc- it is hoped that it will bo but a'si nud tj t he 'j' d jle Wll,
ognized organization to turn ov- short time until tho Baptist peo-1 wjro manufncturer to ship to
er muiiera iu uikl jiil- ui iiuiu- pn win nave a nuuse 111 wuicu
tnnce to us all. The town of to worship. The church will bo
Doming has practically been located on Boulevard Street, just
made by the work of its cham- across tho Grade from the Co
ber of commerce. Work has of- ' himbus hotel.
ten been done through this or-
Columbus. If not the rig ami
pipe will be left in the state ot
Texas, where he has a good pro
position offered him.
I The matter will be decided at
1 once and if the decision is in fa
vor of Columbus it will be but
a short time until the new drill
ing machinery will be set over
the old hole, which is now down
gnnization that could not haveijjISS COLUMBUS OFF
been done otherwise. I to THE BIG BALI
Take the matter of soldiers, !
you want to it was through the efforts of Mi, KVnni'Ps nnbnev in th
the chamber of commerce that cpacity of Miss Columbus, ic- t0 a depth of several hundred
Deming was able to make that ..nmnunied bv Miss Dora Bur- w tv, ,iu i,
a mobilization point. Columbus toni eft Wednesday on the Gol- keen published due to the fact
just as well have had a large don Statu for Ej Pa80, where -that several land and claim hold -militia
camp as not. 1 here was tj,oy wiu attend the ball given Prs wcn? ondeavoring to spec
never anj orgaiuzeu enoii 1 uiuu uv M,ss Kj jllS0. liss Ourton .date on the nromoter's mone
bootleg whiskey. Columbus lias
had enough experience in the
booze problem to know this. If
"r-.JrrMM at tho Present Ume
an iMgiit pounu mil
their home. Tho
Iiuusi V II 111 w.i.j i . 1 .
oorn weunesua.v iiigiu
mg her industries.
I by us to get anything, and we w,,nt ns the attendant of Miss! if ilt, starts the drilling opera
got nothing compared with what Columbus. tion again the depth of the hoi.
other towns did when the mi- wi be IU)bishe(. nnd the pro
una ursi caiuu 10 iiiu uuma.
I Richt at the present time , . h: S ,
ribv vrirl at there is need of more men here. , " "
he babv was I The New Mexico guards are do-1 1 nor
night the luty the,- were iWhcn!ct
gross made each week.
Mr. Kniflin evidently believes
tho prospects for oil are good or
4
Work Shirts and Overalls
When u bu work shins or overalls you want something -.hat will
lrd wear and give satislaclion 111 Ilt anil convenience.
vtnml uu under
Our work shirts arc made up in several colors and vary in weights and
materials from the light chambray to the heaviest ol llanncis aim woo,
ens. They arc manufactured by the best shirt makers in America and
.ire lirst class in finish and workinnnship
No matter what your work may be you will iind our line of jackets
and oveialls suited to your demands.
SAM RAVEL
THE DULLAK uK UlMh Wt Sl'KNU WITH V STANs Ulti.1T HhICK AT HOME
S. C. Pierce and Ernst Engon-
dorf left Tuesday on a trip to
rthnrn nnrt of tho county 1
thoy will spend a few days , ho would not risk the sum 01
v. ....v.., - , . ,,, v'SIIMII nv mnr.i n Innvn Hut
the 2d Massachusetts regiment - op wjrentatlw and w the matter stoo.l before he
RlLT r- rS working for the in-
uuij uit masMii.iiuai.iis ii.i.1 ! terests of other people more than
iimeui uu. ""'""i I his own. and he had but little
tions with both oiheors and men 1 lhe townsite company havesnow to wjn ovcn jf be found
I of both regiments, all hud plen- opened a new addition, Military' jj hjs ncroUre was so srnan
Jlty to do when they wore here. I Heights, and are now selling t wij bo'but -i' few days un
! No doubt the military author-, lots The new addition lies just j t, wo w, know vhether r nol
Ities Know 01 me superior ,ui- nuriuwesi 01 me uriium iowu. t,p test wjj b(? mnde nnd tm.
4
vantages of Columbus as a camp
site, but naturally they think we
don't care about a larger one
and this is the way the matter
stands.
Let s organize and get things
going. Get permanent business
enterprises established and at
least lot "em know we are alive.
N. B. Hampton arrived here
from Louisiana Thursday even
ing, having made the trip in an
auto. The Hamptons resided in
Columbus for several years, and
about throe years ago wont back
to their old home. Mr. Hampton
will probably locate in Columbus
again.
opinion of many of the people
SEVERAL NEW BUILD- is that the future of the vallcv
INGS UNDER WAY depends upon the matter of the
J. L. Greenwood has started tost, thinking that there is but
the work 011 a largo building little doubt about finding oil m
adjoining the postolllce on the 1 rommcrcinl quantities.
west which will be used ns a
theater. J. W. Blair has taken n, '
permit to build a garage just , , Lieutenant Clyde Iv Ely. of
east of the old Sisco Building. , the New Mexico Infantry, has
Carter and Parrish have let con-1 een ueiaueu in me wuanei-maK-tracts
for two buildings on tho ter Doiwrtmont and has been as
lot south of thoir store. One will wnod to duty 111 the clothing
bo used for business and the I depot just west of Butt Bros,
other for n dwolling. druR store.
Boost Columbus bj patroniz- Boost Columbus by patr
ing her industries. , ing her industries.
