TonUsrltt ihrarj
Capital Building
Goffer
Era
Published in the Mo
renci - Clifton District.
Population 15,000
The Oldest Copper Pro
during District in the
State of Arizona.
AND HORENCI LEADER
VOLUME XVIII.
CLIFTON ARIZONA, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1916.
NUMBER 21
GASH'S NAME IS
ORDERED OFF i
BALLOT
Board of Supervisors Examine Sign- A Crowded House Welcomes the Re
ers to Petition and Find Same .Hie-; publican ''State 'Candidates and the
gal Cash Files Writ of Mandamus. - Speeches are Much Enjoyed.
With Clerk of Superior Court To-'
day Hearing to Be Held Monday
Morning.
) ! evening of the 14th at the Princess
The Board of Supervisors met in j Theatre. The meeting was in the
special session last Tuesday afternoon 1 hands of a committee headed by David
at 2 o'clock to consider the case of ;E- Bronson, chairman of the Republi
the petition filed with the Board last -can County Central Committee. J. C
Saturday morning, petitioning thatlGatti, W. F. J. Weiss, J. C. Adams,
the name of James G. Cash be eliminrjick Stephens and "Pop" Anderson,
ated from the officeial ballot as am Mrs. Margaret Willitts, candidate for
Independent candidate for the office
of Sheriff of Greenlee county at the
coming general election. .
As this is the first case of its
kind in the annals of the State, it
has attracted much attention among
the citizens of Clifton, and male and
female electors who were interested
In the issue crowded the office or
the Board, either as petitlonrs or pro
testors. Petition.
A statement of contest of the nomi
nation papers of Sheriff J. G. Cash,
as an Independent candidate for Sher
iff of Greenlee county was filed with
the Clerk of the Superior Court Fri
day afternoon of last week by L. 5".
Sweeting as contestant. The reasons
upon which the action is based are
set forth in the statement which fol
lows: Complaint
That the said L. F.
Sweetirig
contestant here is a resident of the so-called delinquency of the democrats
county of Greenlee, State of Arizona, if intrusted with the management of
and is a duly qualified elector and i State affairs . His address was well
voter of the said County of Greenlee, ' received by the audience,
and of the State of Arizona. At the conclusion of the speaking a
That the said Jim Cash is a rest .general hand shaking occurred, and
dent of the County of Greenlee andja dance followed in which a goodly
State of Arizona, and who claims the j number of Clifton's society folks par
nomination as an Independent canJticipated. Bouquets of chrysanthe
didate for the office of Sheriff of said : mums and carnations were presented
county of Greenlee, by virtue of a j to the ladies by the committee having
certain certificate of nomination flledPjthe affair in hand.
m iue oince 01 me uierK h we
Board of Supervisors.
2. That the particular grounds of
this contest is as follows, to-wit:
On the said 22nd day of September,
1916, the said Jim Cash filed, or
caused to be filed in the office of the
Clerk of the Board of Supervisors of I
said Greenlee County two certain in- the "favorite son" auto, left for the
struments purported to be Nomination ' valley later in the day. -Certificates
of the said Jim Cash as j Mr. and Mrs. Burtch entertained
an Independent candidate for Sheriff j the latter members of the party at
of said Greenlee county; . that said breakfast at their home, and a num
written instruments were signed in ber of Clifton citizens were also their
the aggregate by the names of 36 'guests.
persons; that 6 of the said persons j Owing to the delay caused by the
so signing said nomination certifi- - flood the dates of meetings in the Gila
cates, had theretofore signed the 1 valley had to be rearranged. Monday
nomination paper or papers of a can- j and Tuesday were spent in Safford,
didate or candidates to be voted for j Thatcher and Pima and Wednesday
and voted for at the Primary Elec-j evening at Globe,
tion held in the said county of Green
lee on the 12th day of September, J '
1916. That the names of the said 6 1 certification by a qualified elector to
persons, whose names are signed and the nomination certificate to which
appear upon said nomination certifi-; names or any of them are signed,
cate of said contestee and also upon rails to state and show on the face
the nomination papers of said other thereof that the said signers are
candidates are A. C. Thiel, Mrs. j anaMfled electors of the precinct
Clara Green Kline, -Julius Weill, Lucy which such signers gave as their
Hill, Herman H. Grieme, and F. M. ' respective residences as is required
Orosco. ! by law.
That of the said 36 persons whose That W. F. Malone, whose name ap
names appear upon the said nomi-' pears on said certificate, is not a
nation petition or nomination certifi- qualified elector of the said county of
cate of said contestee, 5 of said . Greenlee; that to the best of con
names, viz: J. E. Miller, Luise ; tpstants information and belief, Mrs.
Weill, W. F. Malone, G. F. Cham-!N. M. Madrid, Santiago Aguirre,
bers, and Frank Slayton, were placed I.uisa Gomez, Emilio Vega, Juana
upon a separate sheet of paper not 'Ramirez, Mrs. F. M. Orosco, Sarah
having a written form at the top Sawaia. Esquipula Munguia and Rosa
thereof as provided by law. I Martinez, whose names appear upon
That of the said 36 names appearing j said nomintion certificate of said con
upon said nomination certificate of testee, are not legally qualified elec
contestee as aforesaid, 7 thereof are I tors or voters of the said County of
the names of persons who at the time j Greenlee and State of Arizona;
each signed said certificate, were ! That neither of said nomination cer
not voters or qualified electors of , tificates of contestee so filed as afore
the State of Arizona, or the County I said, nor all of said certificates
of Greenlee, by reason of the fact ! taken together, contain the signa
that said names of said persons did ' tures of at least one per cent of the
not at the said dates of signing of qualified electors of the said County
said certificate of contestee, appear of Greenlee as determined by the
on the great register of the said coun
ty of Greenlee, as provided by law.
That the names of said persons so
signing said certificate are Mrs. A.
J. Northlngton, Florence Maxwell, G.
F. Chambers, Frank Slayton, George
Gravely, William P. Doyle and Esqui
pela Munguia.
That the name of Mrs. Julia Don
nelly appears upon said nomination
certificate of said contestee and is
one of said 36 names so appearing,
and that the date upon which her
name was signed thereto does not
appear upon said certificate.
That the name of Louisa Gomez ap
pears upon said nomination certifi
cates of contestee and is one of
said 36 names so appearing, and that
the date upon which her name was
signed thereto does not appear upon
the face of said certificate.
That the names of Mrs. , W. W.
Ralston and Mrs. Delia Mullens ap
pear upon said nomination certificate
of said contestee, and are of the
said 36 names so appearing, and that
the Post office or place of residence
or the name of the town or city in
which said signing, or either of them,
were living at the time of said sign
ing, does not appear upon the face
of said certificate.
That upon said nomintion certifi
cate of contestee apnear the names
of W. White, Luis N. M. Madrid,
Luisa R. Garcia, Santiago Aguirre,
H. Morris, and Mrs. A. II. Compton
as a part of the said 30 names so
signed thereto, and that the said
LARGE ATTENDANCE
AT REPUBLICAN
RALLY
The Republican state candidates
.had: a good reception in Clifton on the
county recorder, was active in enter
taining the guests, and during the
speaking occupied a place on the plat
form. The Clifton brass band met Mr.
Campbell and other candidates at the
Clifton Hotel, and after serenading
the party, marched to the theatre
where the speaking was held. On ar
riving the candidates were cordially
received by a packed house.
David E. Bronson was chairman of
the meeting and presented the speak
ers. . Doane Merrill was the first to
address1 the audience, and he was fol
lowed by George H. Smalley, H. E.
Mathews and John L. Gust. Tom
Campbell concluded the program in a
very able and lucid review of the po
litical situation from the republican
standpoint. He criticised the so-called
extravagance of the present admin
istration and told. the people of Clif
ton what he would do to remedy the
-vT oomi,Ko 0a n.,-
Sunday morning, stopping over at
Duncan, where they addressed the
people, proceeding on to the Gila val
ley where they were billed to speak
during the week.
Messrs.. Smalley, Merrill and Math-
ews accompanied by Max Goheen in
total votes cast for Governor in
said County at the last. General Elec
tion, at which a governor was elect
ed. Your contestant therefore alleges
and states that no sufficient nomina
tion certificate for the Independent
nomination for the office of Sheriff
of said Greenlee County has been
filed by or in behalf of said contes
ree, and said contestee is not entitled
to such nomination, nor to have 'his
name appear upon the ballot to be
voted upon at the ;rpr.eral election to
. t.o i-in'd November 7th.
Wherefore your contestant prays
that a day be set for the hearing of
this contest, and that upon such
hearing, after due notice as is provid
ed by law, it shall be determined by
this Court that said Jim Cash, Con
testee. is not entitled to the nomina
tion of Independent candidate for
Sheriff of Greenlee County, nor to
have his name placed upon the offi
cial ballot to be used and voted at
the General Election for State- and
County Officers held November 7,
1916.
. Signed:
L. F. SWEETTNG,
CURRY H. LOVE,
C. A. WOOD,
O. A. RISDOX,
T. L. AXTOX,
J. C. GAINER,
t
M. E. CRAWFORD,
R. E. KESLER.
In answer to subpoenas issued by
;e Board, the following persons
LATEST PHOTOGRAPH
OF PRESIDENT WILSON
i r-
f -.4. w 5 .
I X
71; .
Y -
.vhose names appeared on the petition
were duly sworn by Chairman W. T.
Witt: George Gravely. Lucy Hill. Es-
luepula Munguia, Louise Gomei.,
Abbie W. Rawlston, Mrs. Delia Mul
lens, Mrs. N. M. Madrid, Jauna
Ramirez, Rosa Martinez, Charles D.
Temple, Fannie O'Leary, Luis R.
Garcia, J. B. Emmons, Mrs. Ger
trude Emmons, and Florence Max
vell. The petitioners were interrogated
by the members of the Ron--! as to
tlieir qualifications as- eleorois, and
with the exception of four -"ere duy
passed, as possessing the necessary
lualificat'ons .
Messrs. U. F. Sweeting, Curry- K.
Love, .1. (.. Gaines and O. A. Hisdon
vvhose names appear ou che protest
ing petition were sworn, but did not
'idduce any further information oher
than that set forth in the contest
petition.
The Chairman of the Board, ;n a
biief address explained to those who
were subpoenaed on both sides of
vlie casi:. the reason why their pres
ence was demanded and . apologized
for any inconvenience they were caus
ed by their attendance, and excused
them from further attendance.
The Board then took a recess to
consider further action In the matter.
At the session held in the evening
the Board, went into consideration of
the matter in detail, and after due
consideration, placed on the minutes
the following:
"After carefully considering the
evidence heard, for and against the
nomination certificate of Jim Cash,
Independent candidate for the office
of Sheriff of Greenlee county, the
Board upon motion of W. T. Witt,
seconded by W. W. Dutton and car
ried unanimously, hereby declare
the said nomination certificate to be
illegal, because of an insufficient
number of signatures of qualified elec
tors, as provided for in Paragraph
3039, Revised Statutes of Arizona,
Civil Code, 1913, and the Clerk is
hereby ordered to leave the name of
Jim Cash off the official ballot to be
used for the general election to be
held November 7th, 1916, and the
Clerk is further ordered to notify
Jim Cash of the above decision in
writing."
As a result of the decision of the
Board of Supervisors to order the
name of Sheriff Cash taken off the
official ballot for the general election,
a writ of mandamus was filed with
the Clerk of the Superior Court,
aeainst the Board of Supervisors, this
(Friday) afternoon and the date for
the hearing of the same has been set
for the hour of 10 o'clock p. m.,
Monday.
Tt is understood that no specific
;:nswer was made by Sheriff Cash to
the Board of Supervisors' decision in
regard to the nullifying of the peti
tion, and it appears all that is now
asked by the contestee is the court's
n a- r il-r irrr.lif of the
Bk . . 7.:,'-
. ' -
y
i
x,
Board's action in taking the present
;' incumbent's name off the official bal
lot. BOY SCOUTS OF AMERICA
During the summer months, from
June to September, very little active
r-ork was participated in.
The Boy Scouts of America are in
a very flourishing condition all over
the country, from New York to San
Francisco and from Buffalo to New
Orleans. In Clifton, however, prog-rp.'-s
has been slow and disheartening.
This may be the fault of the officers
of the organization, the boys them
selves, or the utter apathy of the gen
eral public to the welfare of the most
important asset they have, namely,
their boys and future citizens. No
matter what the reason is, the result
exists despite which we would like to
make the coming year the turning
point in the history of the Clifton
Troop.
Financial assistance is badly need
ed. The Troop Committee; Messrs.
J. G. Cooper, A. W. Liddell and Asa
Miller, will be responsible for any
funds contributed. New York has
raised two hundred thousand dollars
for Scout work, while El Paso, this
past week gave two thousand five
hundred dollars to the Boy Scouts.
Our funds amount to seven dollars
and forty cents, a wonderful com
mentary on a town the size of Clif
ton. While financial 'assistance is neces
sary, additional assistant Scoutmast
ers are also essential. One or two
men cannot make a success of an or
ganization, which has so many phases
as the Boy Scouts of America.
Hitherto we have been obliged to
Mr. J. G. Cooper and The Arizona
Copper Company for our meeting
places. From now on we are happy in
having the permission to use the Hill
school building, where we shall meet
on j Monday evenings at 7:30 p. m.
sharp, and shall gladly welcome any
boy who desires to join this national
organization.
Any information concerning the
Boy Scout movement will be gladly
furnished to enquirers by,
W. H. NEIL,
Scoutmaster.
F. N. ANDRUS,
Assistant Scoutmaster.
Chase Creek Playground
The buildings on the lot formerly
occupied by Young's Transfer on
i Chase Creek have been razed and a
cement wall is being built around the
front and north side of the lot. When
the wall is finished the ground will
be filled in and graded and when
eriuipned and completed with the nec
essary apparatus it will make one of
the finest playgrounds for the Chase
Creek pupils of any public school in
the state. The funds are being well
expended and for a purpose the need
-." !-.'; if 'one 1wfT felt.
TWO DEMOCRATIC
RALLYS NEXT
WEEK
The Democratic Clubs of Clifton and
Morenci are Making Elaborate
Preparations for the Reception of
State Candidates.
The Democratic Clubs of Clifton
and Morenci are making elaborate
preparations for the reception of the
State candidates who are to appear in
the District on the evenings of Mon
day and Tuesday, the 23rd and 24th.
The candidates who will discuss
the issues of the day at both meetings
are the Hon. Carl Hay den, member of
Congress, Hon. George W. P. Hunt,
Governor of Arizona, Hon. Sidney P.
Osborn, Secretary of State, Hon.
Wiley E! Jones, Attorney General,
and Hon. Chas. R. Howe, State Tax
Commissioner .
The Morenci meeting will come
off on the 23rd at the Morenci Club,
and the Clifton meeting on the 24th
at the Princess theatre. The band
will be there and a gou .c assured
all.
Free moving picture shows will be
given at both meetings, and will con
clude with free dances.
The picture shows will commence
promptly at 7:30 and the speaking
at 8:30 p. m.
National and State politics will be
discussed by the candidates. . The
gentlemen are assured of a rousing
reception. Citizens of Clifton and
Morenci are cordially invited to parti
cipate. ..
DEATH OF THEO. SHIRLEY
Word was received in Clifton the
first of the week of the death of Theo -
dore Shirley at Sawtelle, Cal., hist de-
mise occurring last Friday. Mr.
Shirley had been in poor health for .tney were almost tne sole white in
several years and it is thought that habitants. In those days they were
his taking off was due to old age , not only confronted with large diffi
coupled with infirmities with which j cultief of mining, treating ore and
hev was afflicted. No particulars of 1 transportation to market, but were be
his death have been, received, owing ) set with - constant, physical j dangers
to- the unsettled train service; from raids by murder-xis Arches. "
and the inability to get mail j Even in 1882 a number of miners wert
from California according to schedule. : killed by the savages on Gold Creek,
It is understood, however, that inter- and the town of Morenci was attacked
ment was made at Sawtelle where de- by them. The next year after the dis
ceased had made his home for some covery, the Lezinsky Brothers of Las
months. Graces bought out Metcalf 's interest.
Some time ago Mr. Shirley was and in 1882 the latter sold out to the
cognizant of his failing condition and .Arizona Copper company, Prior
expressed a wish to return to Metcalf ; to this, in 1878, the first smelter of
and spend his remaining days with ' the district was erected to treat the
his daughter, Mrs. C. H, Farnsworth .; ores of the Longfellow mine. The A. .
The last reports received by MrsT'C company built a new smelting
Farnsworth from Sawtelle were to plant in 1882. These and the otheF
the effect that her father was im- claims located by Stevens and asso
proving and expected to leave shortly ciates have since yielded millions of
for Metcalf, but he evidently took a dollars, but the discoverers, for want
turn for the worse and before his of means, were compelled to sell .their
hopes could be realized the grim . claims for a small sum, for such is
reaper had claimed him. generally the history of the discover-
Theodore Shirley was an old timer ,crs. Mr. Stevens owns some valuable
in this district, having come to Ari- copper claims in the district and is
zona many years ago from California. . ponsidered one of the best posted min
He was bom in Germany and his ' 5n? uien in Clifton.
youth was spent in Wisconsin where ; ' ;
he received his early education, later , Returns With Bride
emigrating to California where he Jones, of the A. C. medical
spent several years before coming to . staff, accompanied by his bride ar
Arizona . j f'ved in Clifton last evening from
"Judge" Shirley, as he was familiar-, Chicago where they were recently
ly known, was known and beloved j married.
by everyone in this district where his
name will ever live for the part which j J Hampson Dies In New York
he took in the making of early his-i Col. Joseph H. Hampson, builder of
in this section. He always took a.Mexican railroads, and well known in
keen interest in questions of public i Arizona, died in New York City on
welfare and was a lifelong democrat October 6, and was buried in Kansas
who adhered strictly to the teachings City last Monday,
of democracy and who worked for the! Co1- Hampson built a large part of
interests of the partv at all times, re- tne Santa Fe road, and did -his work
garding the principles as of moreiso fast and well that pass No. 1 for
worth than the visible increment to ' a Private car on that line was always
be accrued therefrom. As a result 1 ,ssued to hlm. UP to tQe time of his
of his consistency and faithful adher- death . He built the road from Lords
ence to these principles he was hon- 'burS. N- M ., to Clifton, Ariz ., and con
ored in 1906 by being elected to the of-1 structed the greater part of the Mex
fice of probate judge of Graham coun-!5an Central. On his own account
ty when Arizona was a territory, and Col. Hampson constructed a road
later in 1910 he was again recognized rom Mexico City to Cuernavaca. Mex
by the electorate by being elected tOlco-
the same office in Greenlee county 1 In nis ,aier vears he nad extensive
soon after its division from Graham. ranch holdings in Kansas.
It was also during his tenure of office ' hen building the railroad from
that Arizona attained statehood and Lordsburg to Clifton Col. Hampson
at the same time the office of pro-;Decame Interested an the splendid
k. 4 , QVni,ori thnao rtutioa . range conditions in Arizona and locat-
J"6C " " '
devolving upon the clerk of the su
perior court
He was 'also justice of the peace
at Metcalf for several terms but in
later years he retired from public life
and lived quietly with his daughter
until his departure for Sawtelle some
months ago. Of his immediate fam
ily he leaves to mourn his loss his'
daughter, Mrs. Farnsworth, who re
sides at Metcalf and Mrs. Louise Lo
gan, of Gila Bend, Arizona.
The passing of Judge Shirley re-
moves one more of the old timers who . i'ect that certain candidates upon the
in the early days had a great deal to , Democratic ticket are not In harmony
do in the making this section of Ari- j with their party in the coming cam
zona what it is today, and his mem-; paign, and are openly or covertly sup
ory will be revered by all who knew J porting Republican or Independent
him as a man who lived his life ac- j nominees we, the undersigned, candi
cording to his high standards and who dates upon the Democratic ticket, and
was ever ready to help a deserving members of the Democratic central
brother in distress. He lived up to committee of Greenlee county, hereby
his ideals as nearly as possible and brand such statements a3 false, and
the community mourns the passing of
such a character as Judge Shirley.
Meetinq the Voter:
R. W. Chamberlain, republican can
diilate for state senator, was a Clif-j dress, P. Riley. R. R. Webster, F. E.
ton visitor the first of the week. Mr. ! Williams, A. H. Slaughter, Pickens
Chamberlain is well l.nown in Green- Anderson, G. L. Coffee. W. H. Moon,
lee county, having been an active E. V. Horton, W. D. Whipple, J. F.
worker in the republican ranks for , McGrath, John Bradberry, J. B. Hoff
several years, and he is conducting man, W. E. Kelly, A. L. Gravely, J.
an energetic campaign for the office M. I.ally, Joe Deck, S. C. Swift, Har
of state senator. vey Grady.
PIONEERS RECEIVE
MERITED NOTICE
TI
The Exposition Issue of the El Paso
Times has the -following to say of our
fellow townsman Ike Stevens' ex
perience In the early days of Clifton:
Among the few remaining pioneers
of the southwest, there is none more
highly respected as a citizen nor any
one that has done more to bring to
the notice of the world the great cop
per mines of the Clifton-MorencI dis
trict than Isaac N. Stevens of Clifton,
Arizona. Long before the copper
mines of the Warren or Bisbee district
were known, or the Shefflin Brothers
had discovered the famous Tombstone
mines, Stevens and his associates had
invaded the Clifton-Morenci district
and found and located and began
"working the copper outcrops on what
are now the great mines of that dis
trict. He still lives in his cozy cot
tage at South Clifton, In sight of the
great copper mountains with which
bis name will ever be associated, and
is still engaged in working some cop
per mines with his brother, Charles
Stevens, who Is also one of the otigV
inal pioneers and discoverers of the
district. Mr. Stevens has held sev
eral public offices, such as supervisor
of Graham and Greenlee counties, and
is manager of the Chase Creek Mining;
company, a New England company, to
whom he sold the copper properties
they own.
"Ike" Stevens and "Bob" Metcalf
went into the Clifton-Morenci district
with about a dozen others, in 1872,
from Silver City, N. M., where word
was brought of rich mineralization in
the Chase Creek and San Francisco
country and discovered and located
aniong other properties which were to
1 become famous as producers of copper
j the- Longfellow and various claims in
tne Metcalf area, uuring that year
1 ...!, 1 .1 ..T-w
r:u wiicik waa ivuuwu as lilts uuuuia
Circle" cattle ranch on Eagle creek in
' the northern part of Graham county.'
This he owned for many years and
it became known as one of the best
stock ranches in Arizona. Mr. Hamp
son sold this property two years ago.
NOTICE
To the Voters of Greenlee County:
Statements having been circulated
throughout Greenlee county to the ef-
. each of us hereby pledge our active
and loyal support to the entire Demo
cratic ticket in State, County and Pre
cinct: Mrs. Jessie Billingsley, Rod-
ney Ellis, Jas. II
Kerby, D. E. An-
MS
