PAGES 1 TO 8
"OWOSSO THE CITY OF PUSH"
VOL. XXXVIII
OWOSSO, MICHIGAN. OCT. 20, 1916
NO. 30
Like to Looate Husband. '
Mrs. Bertha Rogers has asked the
police authorities to locate her husband,
Homer Rogers, who left Owoeso last
March, and whom she believes is living
in Logan, Utah, with another woman.
Mrs. Denyes Secures Divorce.
Mrs. Minnie Denyes was given a de
cree of divorce from Patrolman George
Denyes of Owoseo, by Judge Dodd5 in
the circuit court, Wednesday. Mr.
Denyes was ordered to pay $305.93 and
to pay for the support of their fon until
he is elgnteen years old.
Receipts Pay Expanses.
Tne supervisors committee on ab
abstracts has reported the receipts for
the past nine months to be $1,723 00.
and the total for the year is a little
more than the . expense of conducting
the office. The work of re-copying the
abstracts continues, the original plat
of Owosso being completed and addi.
tions in hand now.
m m
Moose Are to Havo a Rally and Field
Day.
At the Moose lodge Thursday night
plans were laid and committees ap
pointed for a rally and field day here on
November 16. Lodges from Saginaw,
Bay City, Flint, Lansing and other ad
jacent places will participate, and at
this time a class of 100 will be initiated.
Dr. A. S. Wallis, national director of
Moorehurst, HI., will have charge of
the membership campaign.
i
No Epldemio Existed.
The report of C. S. Baldwin, county
live stock sanitary inspector, to the
board of supervisors, made Friday,
shows that the hog cholera scare of a
few months ago was unnecessary, and.
as usual, was just unpleasant and un
profitable newspaper notoriety for Shia
wassee county. The commissioner in
spected 710 hogs, 536 were vaccinated.
438 died. The commissioner worked 50
days; traveled 1578 miles at an expense
of $242.62. He made 102 visits.
COMMUNITY MEETING.
Systematized Play and Instruction
Necessary to Best Develop- -ment
of Children.
A community meeting under the aus
pices of the Federated Women's club of
this city, was held at the armory Tues
day evening, and the rather small num
ber who attended were exceedingly
well repaid for attending. The subject
of playgrounds and systematized play
was thoroughly discussed and ex
plained. Mrs. Maude Thompson presided, and
after selections by the high school band
under direction of O. H. Voelker, the
latter was called upon and gave a re
port of the meeting of the Recreation
Congress at Qrand Rapids lat week,
bringing out the facts as to the weak
physical condition of children in this
country because of lack of play grounds,
proper exercises, and lack of instruction
in methods of play. He urged the secur
ing of the Emerson woods, the grounds
around the Bryant school, and that pro
vision be made for ice skating in winter
and every healthful exercise.
William Rudow, of Salem's Lutheran
school, rendered piano selections, after
which Miss Anna Cowlea. of the M A. C.
extension department, gave an interest
ing talk on systematized play and gar
den clubs, and gave a demonstration
with some of the children of ' 'ball relay,"
"hop and relay," "fox and squirrel" and
"three deep".
. Harry Johnson, physical training in
structor, gave a short talk on the work
accomplished at the play grounds this
summer at Athletic park.
Mayor De Young made a short address
on the Armory park question. E. O.
Dewey and O. L. Sprague spoke briefly
on the park question.
Dr. and Mrs. Chas. Sackrlder and Dr.
and Mrs. Geo. Sackrider will entertain
at dinner next Thursday eyening at the
home of the former.
PULL FOR 2,0 MAJORITY
Shiawassee Comity Likely to Be On
Ike flosor Roll.
The meeting of the county workers
in the prohibition campaign was a
hummer from start to finish. At 10:30
Wednesday morning the autos were
lined up at the M. E. church as the
township leaders began to arrive for
the big war council. All the town
ships except Owosso, Antrim and
Caledonia were represented. Chair
man E. O. Dewey called the meeting
to order and Rev. J. B. Wallace was!
chosen secretary. Reports of town-
snip leaders were given in oraer ana
made it plain that the county is very
much alive, with good working orga
nizations in the various townshps, and
a steadily growing sentiment.
One of the important details at
tended to at the meeting was the selec
tion of challengers for the various
voting precincts. The plan of using
instruction booths located beyond the
hundred foot limit on election day was
advocated and will probably be adopt
ed. Other instructional features were
urged, particularly were the ministers
requested to distribute the sample
ballots at their Sunday services from
now until election and to have the
vote taken each Sunday. As an illus
tration of the ease with which mis
takes may be made in voting, a sample
vote was taken at the morning session
of the committee, on both the amend
ments, of forty-two votes cast three
were defective through misunder
standing of the proper method of
marking. At the dinner hour ahotner
vote was taken with 71 votes cast and
no errors, showing the value of care
ful instruction.
Much inspiration and many valuable
suggestions were brought to the ses
sions by the presence and addresses of
Messrs. Dean and Rood, District Su
perintendents of the Anti-Saloon Lea
gue, who are men of keeness, force and
wide practical experience. Mr. Byron
Hicks, of DurandVgave several prac
tical talks and always with his own
characteristic punch and convincing
combination of earnestness and
shrewdness.
At the dinner which was served by
the women of the Methodist church,
Superintendent Rood made a speech
which for ginger and sense and happy
humor was a clincher indeed, and was
received with ringing applause. At
the afternoon session the committee
were fortunate in having present Mr.
II. R. Pattingill, of Lansing, ex-State
Superintendent of Public Instruction.
"Pat" is always a winner in his con
vincing style ot oratory, and his
speech was replete with sense, humor
and hot shot. He gave a little jingle
to enable the voters to remember how
to mark their ballots.
"Article XVI means sweet sixteen
so we will vote "Yes" for sweet six
teen the state prohibition amendment.
Article VIII means full of hate so we
will vote "NO" on the thing called
"Home Rule."
Or if you remember them by sections
it will be "Section 11, -will help us
on the way to Heaven, so we will vote
YES" on that; while Section 30 is
mighty dirty and we will vote ' ' NO ' '
on that.
The financial statement showed that
about $1,400 of the $2,800 pledged in
the county has been paid in and half
of this amount has been turned over
to the county committee for use here.
The Owosso canvass is in progress
and has about $G00 or $700 yet to
raise. '
Plans were outlined for the organi
zation of several big automobile par
ades to be formed in different parts of
the county and to head up in Owosso.
Mr. B. W. Mattoon, of Shiawassee
township, was appointed Chief of the
Auto Squad who will complete the ar
rangements for the parades.
The outside speakers who are in
touch with many of the other county
While it is not necessary to say a single word for these gen
tlemen who are the Republican candidates for re-election as
Sheriff and Prdsecuting Attorney respectively, as both are with
out opposition on the Democratic ticket, we cannot refrain from
saying that they have earned the honor by most excellent ser
vice in their offices in behalf of all the people of the county. In
face of the fact that they aro given credit by those who are in a
position to know of having enforced the local option law better
in this county than it has been enforced in any other county in
Michigan, they will tie chosen again by practically a unanimous
vote. No greater compliment could be paid Bert S. Griffin and
Seth Q.-Pulver. It also goes to show that public officials who
are willing and fearless " in fulfilling their respective
duties need have no fear that the approval of the voters of this
county will be withheld from tbem. Wo congratulate Messrs.
Griffin and Pulver.
organizations were warm in'., their
praise of the live and efficient organ
zation in this county. They found
plenty of punch in the spirit of this
meeting and at the same , time a cool
headed determination to leave no ef
fort out to keep up the fight on clean
cut and definite lines. The two slogans
of the meeting were "Get the dry
vote instructed' and "Get the dry
vote out at the polls."
Mention 'should be made of the
hearty willingness of the women to
help in the work, and plans are to be
made to use their services in effective
ways on election day.
From now to the end of the cam
paign the tide of enthusiasm will
steadily rise as the big guns are heard
in the mass meetings in various parts
of the county.
The verdict on all sides was that the
meeting Wednesday was the most
valuable one so far held in the cam
paign. WOULD-BE MURDERER
COMMITS SUICIDE
Jealous Younf Man Shoots Himself
After Failing- to Kill Girl
He Loved
A young man named Lee Lessor,
whose home is at Manitowoc, Wis., at
tempted to kill his sweetheart who Is
employed at A. - Syversou's home on
Park street as a domestic, last night,
and then turning the shot gun on him
self blew the entire right side of his
face off, and died at midnight.
Tne young man who came here early
last spring, and was ordered out of
town by the police, returned three
weeks ago, and has been employed at
the Owosso Mfg. Co. plant. He has
b)thered the young lady, and after
having his attentions refused deter
mined to kill her. He went to the
Syverson home, and after breaking in
the glass in the front door and finding
the young lady had escaped, turned the
gun on himself. He shot at several
young men who had been called from
the Harold Lyon home by a neighbor
who saw Lessor with the gun, but for
tunately did not injure any of tfcem.
Aid Children's Home.
The board of supervisors has voted to
pay 100 toward the maintenance of the
Michigan Children's Home at St. Jo
seph. The board was unanimous in
the opinion that this action would meet
with the approval of practically every
taxpayer if they knew of the work of
the institution. It has been doing good
work for a great many yearr and is
now caring for several hundred chil
dren. It has taken 17 children from
this county and placed 25 children in
Shiawassee county.
DAIRY SCHOOL OCT. 28.
Shiawassee County Milk Producers
Will Meet in Owosso.
The Shiawassee County Milk Pro
ducers' Association is planning for a
big meeting in Owosso Oct. 28, when
all dairymen are requested to be pres.
ent. Experts will be sent from the M.
A. C. and will hold a school of instruc
tion. The object of the meeting is to
take further action toward securing a
higher price for milk.
WANT OUR OWN TAX MONEY.
Supervisors Adopt Resolution Against
More Property Being Taken
From Local Rolls.
Supervisor Dewey, of Owosso, Intro
duced a resolution Tuesday which was
unanimously adopted by the board of
supervisors. It protests against the re
moval of interurban line property from
the assessment rolls of the townships,
cities and villages through which the
lines run, and the collection and spend
ing of the money lavishly by the state.
Having taken the auto tax money,
further inroads are much opposed by
all local authorities.
HOUSES TO RENT WANTED
City Is Short of Moderate and Cheaper
.Priced Dwellings
Henry Smetana spoke at the Improve- i
ment Association meeting, Tuesday, on '
the need of houses to rent at $10 to $14
month, especially In the south and
west parts of town. There are plenty j
of more expensive places for rent, but .
the city has lost some families, It Is said, i
because of the lack of bouses. An or-'
ganized effort will be made to have this
matter taken care of in the next few
months. I
Buy Barber Shop.
Two of Owo9so's well known barbers,
O. F. Maxted and C. A. Boyles. have
purchased the shop in the State Savings
Bank block and will conduct It here
after. The shoD will be refitted. Marv
friends wish the new owners success.
Soldiers' Relief.
The soldiers' relief commission of the !
county expended $265 the past year in j
relieving distress of ared civil war. vet
erans or widows of veterans. The com
mission elected D. S. Post, of Vernon,
chairman; W. E. Jacobs, of Corunna,
secretary. W. R. Smith, of Owosso, is
the third member.
Owosso 20. Mt. Pleasant 7.
The Owoeso high school foot ball
team defeated Mi. Pleasant at that city
Saturday, 26 to 7, in a good game, mak
ing Owoso'b fourth straight victory,
with no defeats.
Charged With Bigamy.
L. D. Barnes was brought to Corun
na from Alton, lad . Wednesday, and is
locked up on a charge of bigamy. He
was arrested on complaint of Ina Gil
more, mother of Bessie Gilmore of Co
runna, whom Barnes married last Jan
uary, and who claims Barnes bad a
wife living in Hillsdale at the time.
Barnes is said to have served a sentence
for larceny.
m .
Board of Supervisors.
The board of supervisors" voted $500
Monday" for the' permanent improve
ment of McCurdy park during the next
year, to be expended under the super
vision of the buildings and grounds
committee.
The board of supervisors passed a res
olution Wednesday giving the Owosso
supervisors authority to renew the con
tract wUh Dr. F. A. Watts to care for
the indigent sick in Owosso fpjfanolher
year, and calls for a salary of $1,000
The doctor is to attend all indigent
cases, and to perform minor surgical
operations.'
INDOOR BASE BALL
League Season Opens Oct. 31 Six
Teams Two Games Weekly.
The Owosso li door base ball league
will open its season on Tuesday night,
October 31, with the' Mailables team,
... .
pennant winners last year, and the uoo-1
bins Table Co. team, which during the
latter part of the season shot from a
poor last to a tie for second place, the
opposing teams The line ups of the
two teams will probably be much the
same as last year. Brown, the sterling
little twirler of the MalleaMea, will be
in the box for them, with Cavanaugh
behind the bat. Although it is not cer
tain yet whether B.ll Dowling will pitch
for Bobbins. ummin will catch.
Dowling Biys he doenn't care to play
again, bnt mav change his mind
The league p an to play two games a
week, the janie as la.-t year. The tfaines
will be played In tbe new armory. The!
' '
diamond has been marked out, corner
wise of the floor, xud the fiit practice
was held WenuemlHy uighc, when th
Robbin-i and ihrf Stove. (Jump my team
worked out. Tbe Malleable team will
practice Frldav uihc.
The Woodard Furnitive Co and
Owoeso Mfg Co. will play on eletuion
night, Nov. 7. and election retnnn will
be received
incingt
hihI hiiuo timed between
X'
r?)rf)mn
i
Abooiuioty Puro
No Alum No Phosphate
BRYAN GIVES STRONG
AID TO DRY CAMPAIGN
Arraigns Liquor Traffic in Convincing Argument
Wants to Know Why Bounty Is Not Paid Saloons if They Axe Good Things,
Instead of Imposing License.
Wm. Jennings Bryan made a most
juWtion to an immense audience in
in part:
"There are three great principles which I had hoped to live long enough
to see made effective in this nation. They are suffrage for women on aa
equal basi3 with men, the driving of the saloon from the United States and
the reconstruction of the policies of the world on a basis that will respect
the philosophy of Christ and the hope of peace will not be founded on the
philosophy of Pilate.
"In support of the second, there is one solid foundation upon which
all argument should be based. That is, that alcohol is a poison. The drink
ing of alcohol weakens the body, destroys the mind and overthrows the
moral3. That has been a known fact for 3,000 years. Daniel refused the
wine which the overseer of the king brought to him. ne demanded water
for himself and his companions. The overseer urged wine upon him because
it was his desire that they should look well and that only by drinking wine
could they do soN Daniel asked 10 days on water with which to prove that
water was better than wine and the overseer allowed the test. At the end o
10 days he told Daniel that he had won.
'" Challenges Proof Alcohol Benefits. ,. ' t
"That has been the history from that day down to this. If you can
prove that alcohol is a benefit to man you. can do the greatest service that
Las ever been done to the saloon. Down in Annapolis we have maintained, at
the expense of the government, a large number of midshipmen drawn from
every congressional district in the United States. They are the wards of
Uncle Sam and they are being trained for the highest possible efficiency. But
Uncle Sam docs not allow them any liquor whatever and you can't mako
the government of the United States believe they ought to have it. If Uncle
Sara will not allow alcohol for his boys, why do you allow it for yours? Uncle
Sam can replace one of his boys if they are lost, but you cannot replace one
of yours.
"I talked with the colored porter on a sleeping car after a speech I had
delivered on this subject recently. lie said to me that if we could free the
colored man from drink we would be doing more for him than when we freed
him from slavery. Then to make it stronger he said: 'The man who can.
free my people from drink will do more for them than Abraham Lincoln.
If a poor colored man can sec that, why do you white men persist in remain
ing blind.
"In business life they are demanding the man who does not drink now-a-days.
I travel much and I sleep on the train with the same sense of secur
ity that I do in my own home. Why! Because I know that the railroad
will not place a drinking man at the throttle of the engine, that a drinking
man is not permitted to stand at the switch. The men operating the trains
must be clean, sober men, whose minds are keen and clear. Try a little
experiment and prove whether a business man will hire you if you drink.
"Ito to your best iriena ana tell
- TI 1" 1- iL.l
' for a job. Have him make that recommendation just as stronsr as he knows
! 1 1-11 1 A I 1 TT 1 (1 , , ... ...
"ow, ten mm wnat to put inio.it.
bottom of the letter add these words m
three words: 'And he drinks.' Then go anywhere you want to and seek
a job. Watch the face of your possible employer change as he reads those
last three words and then stand around and watch some other man get tho
job. I challenge any saloon keeper to show me where he ever would write
on the bottom of a letter of recommendation for his best friend the words:
'and ho. drinks.'
Why Impose Bicense?
"If the saloon is a good thing we are not treating the saloon keener
i Piiiflv VY ivnl nrm a fVin in n n ivli wonfo 4- of ftif o iyiao r-w a Ani
mcj)t Qr ft bflnk Jn ft town Bnt w,mt do we do w.fch theValoon kee ,
We mcct him at tho city liraits and tdl hira if hJ wantg to do business here
i,e must pay a license, he cannot open until a certain hour in the morning,
he must close at a certain time at night, he canot sell to everybody. The
man buying must bo over age and under drunk. You put no such restrictions
"pon the ment man or the grocer or the man building a factory. If the saloon
is a S(l t,,inS for a community we are dealing unfairly with it. We ought
i. .1 1 1 1 A " ' J A
to give me saioon Keeper a uouniy xor coming into our town.
I "If the saloon is a good thing, why after a man has gotten well lighted
j up and has his nose nicely polished do we run him oil to jail and hide him
nwny irom sight. v liy do we not stand mm up in iront of the saloon to
show what a good job the saloon can do? The reason is that the salooa
keeper would be the first to object. He has taken the man's money and
now wants hira out of sight lest his appearance shall prevent others from
coming in to spend their raony. It is ridicule to license a saloon to make a
man drink and then fine that man for getting drunk.
"As I ride through the country I see everywhere sism boards tellinsr tho
exact population of the next town, the
schools, tho number ot churches, but 1 challenge you to show me one . sign
board in the United States that advertises to you that a certain town has
so many saloons, it the saloon is a good thing why do you not go down to
the station and advertise to the incoming travelers how many saloons you
have.
"There isn't a county in Michigan so wet that you could find a single
man in it willing to permit another to go through that county spreading
cholera among the hogs. Why? Because we have learned to appreciate the
hog. When you go to the polls in November you will have your opportunity
to raise man to the level of the hogs by voting to drive out tho saloon which
spreads poison among them.' '
Home Rule Amendment a Fraud.
Mr. Bryan attacked with great vigor tho home rule amendment which
will be voted upon at the same time with the state-wide prohibition amend
ment, lie declared it was fraud and drafted for fraudulent purposes. He
argued that the township unit would in effect disfranchise every dry voter
in a county, because it would place a saloon in townships to which the coun
try boys of tho surrounding dry territory could go to get liquor and then,
drive out into the country spreading its bad effects all along the road. He
likened a saloon in this respect to n slaughter house. "Why is n slaughter
house a nuisance?" he declared. "Because you can't confine its smell to
the block upon which it stands. , For the same reason the saloon in the town
ship is a nuisance, because you can't confine its evils to the township in which
it is located."
effective anneal fnr st
Qrand Rapids a few days since, saying
him to write you a recommendation
11" ... .
nave mm natter you and. then at the
red ink so it will be read: Add these
number of factories, the number of
