What is Best for Maui
is Best for the News
If you wish Prosperity
Advertise in the News
VOLUME XXII.
WAILUKU, MAUI, T. II., FKIDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1916.
NUMBER 51
GARRISON RESIGNS AS
SECRETARY OF WAR
FAILURE Of Army Plans Cause Of Break With Pres
ident. Lsitania Controversy Reported Near
Final Settlement. Crisis Again Averted.
HONOLULU, Feb 11 Retail board of trade will try
to get cheaper rates for freight between Islands and eastern
points.
America yields record sugar crop in 1915. War does
not affect Hawaiian crops.
WASHINGTON, February 11 Secretary of war Gar
rison resigns when army plan fails. Major General Hugh
Scott, chief of staff, is now acting secretary. Garrison re
fuses to comment upon move.
Reports name Conkling K. Lane as probable successor.
President lets congressional pressure cause official
break, Assistant Secretary of War Brcckenridge, quits
with Garrison. Passage by senate of Philippine bill as mod
ified by the Clark amendment, is another reason for Gar
rison's retirement. President socks merchant marine
Scientific Tariff board is another hope he tells chamber
of commerce.
NEW ORLEANS, February 11 Paul Roh, German
consul here, admits writing much discussed letter taken
from von Tappcn by British secret service men.
LONDON, February 11 Teutons warn all merchant
ships against carrying guns. Both German and Australian
governments in incidental notes threaten destruction of
armed craft. Will give no time to remove passengers.
Action if central powers follows American note forbiding
armed vessels in ports sailing under warship rules.
Balkans again rivet attention. Muttcrings of war heard
near Saloniki. East and west fronts active. Reports as to
results conflicting.
NEw YORK, February 11 Edison batteries are blam
ed for accident on submarine E2. Instructions supplied by
compay were not complete.
NEW YORK, February 11 Whenever German sub
marines caught in tangle of British nets, captain kill crew
and blow out own brains, is report of Dr. Inglis, a Canadian
surgeon, of the Canadian medical service. British are now
using glass bottom boats in search of submarines."
BERLIN, February 11 British crusier Caroline repor
ted destroyed by bomb in last Zeppelin raid on England,
Destroyers Edith and Nith also reported destroyed.
WASHINGTON, February 10 Secretary of State Lansing an
nounced today that he had sent a dispatch to Ambassador Pen field,
of Vienna, requesting him to ask the Austrian foreign office for an
investigation and explanation of the Austrian submarine attack on the
American tanker l'etrolite, which was assailed in the war zone.
CHEYENNE, Wy., February 10 A lone andit held up and rob
bed 30 passengers in sleepers and obsrvation cars of an east bound
train of the Union Pacific, between Green River and Rock Springs.
Posse nowpursuing him. The robber returned $70 to one woman, remar
king that he did not rob women.
HONOLULU, February 10 C. C. Bitting, has severed his con
nection with the local U. S. district attorney's office. He had been sa
ving without salary.
Strong protest should be voiced against the action of the American-Hawaiian
company, because of its sudden withdrawal of the Atlantic-Hawaii
service, was emphasized by E. II. Paris, at meeting of
chamber of commerce directors.
BERLIN, February 10 German forces in important fighting
on the west front have captured a vast section of rrench trenches north
west of Vely, in the Artois region. The mine crater at Neuville,which
after days of fighting, was occupied by the Allies, has been regained
by the Germans. South of the river Somme, the French gained a foot
diold of a small part of the German first line trenches.
PARIS, February 10 Allies have made material gain on west
i front, which includes Arras and Lens. Germans were driven out of
their communication trenches by jand grenades.
company has not played fair with them. Now advocates an indepen
dent fleet of vessels.
WASHINGTON, February 9 The Lusitania crisis is past, de
clares Washington officials. Berlins tentative communication meets
with approval of the United Statcs.
SAN FRANCISCO, February 9 Consuls General "of' Germany
and Turkey indcted in San Francisco by federal grand jury returned
15 true bills against head officials of consulates and others alleged to
he involved in war plots. Persons who supplied Teuton fleet included
Principal conspirators are accused of cabal to destroy munition plants,
railroads and steamship terminals.
WASHINGTON, February 9 Lobbyists are attacking strongly
parcel post system. Representative Moon asks for appropriation of
S.JZU,UUU.UUU tor postal improvements.
LONDON, February 9 Dispatch from front says Russians are
again busy in the Caucasus. Kitchener may go to Cairo, is the re
port. Earl Derby now named his successor. in war office.
WASHINGTON, February 9, Women oppose defense plaan
A delegation of women war on congress against unwarranted appro
piation.
President now considering the court martial findings against Lt.-
Col. Goodier, acquitted of "heating" soldier. Findings severely crit
icized uy Lieneral ood.
-Teutons ask that steamer Appam, recently captured, be left in
neutral waters.
HONOLULU, February 9, Famous old cruiser Marblehcad,
may ik assigned to Hawaii for local naval militia.
T...1 H'"l 1 . . i ...... .
juuge wiiuer protests against public utilities commission fayiny
expenes ot rorbes trip to Washington. He says any such step will re
sult in action by grand jury
Planters are not pleased with t he action of the American-
WASIIINGTON, February 8 American leaders now think two
nations are Hearing final harmony on Ltisilana case. President Wilson
and Secretary I,ansing conferred for more than an hour, then the cabi
net held a meeting at which matter was topic. Following this Secre
tary Lansing and Ambassador von Bernstorff conferred. All these
meetings have heightened optimistic feeling in administration circles.
BERLIN. February 8 Renewed activity on west front is evident
from the report of active fighting south of river Sotnnie.
LONDON, February 8 Swedish steamer Texas with cargo of cotton
afire, is racing for Kirkwall, Scotland, in hope of making port before
being disabled, according to wireless. The vessel sailed from New
Orleans with big cargo.
PARIS.Fcbruary 8 Col. E. M. House, of Texas and New York,
arrived here today enroute to London. He has been in Berlin for some
time. His visit to European capitals was to confer with American Di.
plomatic representatives, to convey to them views of the situation to
carry back to President.
NEW YORK, February 8 Four American Mining engineers ar
riving today from Vera Cruz, reported that their ttain from Mexico
City to Vera Cruz, was under constant fire by bandits along line, and
that for safety they traveled in an armored car armed with four 3-inch
gnus, with which to meet the attacks. They stated entire country from
seacoast to Capital is infested by bandits.
WASHINGTON, February 8 President Wilson's close friends
and advisers expect him to make a formal announcement of his candi
dacy forre nomination within a month. The resident has not yet
done so.
HONOLULU, February 8 A lnerican Hawaiian Steamship Comp
any is to abandon run between Hawaii and the Atlantic. Sugar will be
carried by rail to eastern refineries, with consent of Sugar Factor. 12
cargo carriers will be released from Island service and chartered to go to
goverments of entente powers. Merchants of Honolulu are hard hit.
Three carriers remain for San Francisco run.
Washington, February 8 Solons add hundred of middies to naval
school. Leaders and Manager Clark take floor and ficrht toeether for
success of first measure of national preparedness. House passes bill by
vote 173 to 0.
Berlin and Washington again near agreement. Controversy over
Lusitania again near Settlement.
LONDON, February 8 Lord Kitchener will go, asserts rumor in
London. May be assigned to fresh duties. Fierce fighting resumed in
Artois region, dispatch from France.
PHOENIX, February 8 Trouble reported among Navajo Indians
on reservation. Braves said to be on verge of uprising.
NEWPORT NEWS, February 8 Captains of British steamer re
port 2 British cruisers patroling Atlantic coast near Virginia capes.
SAN FRANCISCO, February 6 Liner Harvard last night ran
into schooner Excelsior, cutting her to water line, but not being dama
ged herself. Accident occurred off Meigs Wharf. Excelsior, drifted
out of sight, Tug searching find nothing of her.
WASHINGTON, February 7 Germany has agreed in the Lusita
nia case, that 'reprisal shall be directed only against enemy's subjects.
This provision of the formal reply is offered instead of the phrase contain
ing the word "illegal" upon which the United States is understood to
have insisted.
MILAN, February 7 French aviators continue to report the
developing concentration of the Germans and Bulgarians upon the
Greek frontiers. . German reinforcements are advancing from Usktib,
central south Serbia, northwest of Grevelli, which is not far north of
the Greek bcrder. One Bulgarian division has left Kusbentil, Bulgaria
and is moving southward in the genen.1 campaign toward Greek terri.
tory, Bulgarians transferred their heavy artillery frcm Nish to the Bul
garian frontiers, is confirmed.
ST JOHN, New Foundland; February 7 Local officials, acting
under orders of British admiralty, refuse to give Norwegian liner Onter
eda, which is here from Copenhagen, sufficient coal to proceed to Balti
more. No explanation is given for blacklisting the vessel.
MILAN, February 7 A dispatch from Bucharest to the Secelo,
says that a terrific explosion has occurred in the Skoda armament fact
tory in Bohemia, in wheh 195 persons perished. 3 buildings blown up
including one wnere lamous i-iucu nyarauiic guns ot tne Austrians
are manufactured.
LONDON, February 7 Lord Kitchener will probably leave the
war office and that Gen. William Robertson, now chief of staff will
probably be the active director of the war without interference except
from the cabinet as a whole, says the Daily Sketch in an article today,
which attracted moch attention,
HONOLULU, February 7 Robert Shingle received a cablegram
to the effect that the temperature of Princess Kawananakoa, who is
ill with typhoid in Washington, has been normal for several days.
HONOLULU, February 7 J. T. Stacker died yeyterday. Was
a well known newpaperman in Honolulu.
1ua , reoruary 1'oies starve uecause neip is denied ly
belligerents. Despite outside efforts to relieve homeless and destitute
thousands, Germany and Russia will not agree to open way.
TOKIO, February 7 Monsignor Peorelli may have discussed peace
terms with Japanese statesmen and emporer here.
PROVIDENCE, February 7 Mrs. Mohr not guilty of murder.
Jury holds two negroes for killing her husband, a prominent physician.
LONDON, February 7 British infantry attack Artois region frus
trated, declare Berlin dispatches.
OTTOWA, February 6 Canadians are on the lookout against
enemy. Three strange aeroplanes over juelec flying towards Mon
treal reported to secret service at Ottawa. Last night Jardin's munition
factory caught fire. Police searching out suspicious characters. Sev
eral persons injured in fire. Evidence multiplies that Clutters worked
in the Dominion long before the war legau. Trunk tells preparedness
story when man asked to have trunk sent to Pacific coast. When
opened found to contain maps covering points of Canadian cities.
NEW YORK, February 6 Police gathered thickly at enterances
o subways holding everyone with handbags for examination. Search
follows report that attempts will be made to dynamite subways.
(Continued From Page One.)
Winners In First
Series Now At Foot
Japanese Whitewash Saints In Last
Game Will meet Waikapus In
Next Sunday's Dattje.
Dy a score of 5 to 0, the Asahis
won from the St. Anthonys last Sun
day, whilehuhesceosd game the Wai
yapus put It oper the Chinese by a
score of 5 to 3. The Saints, who won
the championship in the first series,
in a close contest with the Chinese,
has lost both games played in the
second series; and thesame is true
of the Chinese. Whether these two
teams wlil be able to find their old
form, is a ouestion that is puzzling
the fans.
Next Sunday's games will be bel
tween the Asahis and the Waikapus,
in the first game, and much interest
is manifested in the result.
Death Of Waldemar
Hanncsted
Noted Coast Anglers
Will Try Maui Waters
Another expedition after big game
fish is under way, and by the steamer
Mauna Kca, leaving on Saturday, Mr.
and Mrs. F. K. Burnhnm of Martinez,
California; James W. Jump of Lo Ang
eles, Mr. and Mrs. Harold L. Morris of
Denver, Mrs. George Campbell of
Denver, and Miss Talbot, will take pass
age to Maui. Morris' fishing sampan,
the Dixie Maru, will be sent over, and
while the women of the party are seeing
the sights of Valley Island, the fishermen
will go in pursuit of tuna, ona, mahimahi
and other game fish with which the
waters off Maui abound. Advertiser.
During the night of February 7lh,
Ilannestad of Kailiili, Makeuwao, af
ter an illness of some keeks, died ji
the I'aia Plantation Hospital.
Mr. Ilanncsfed was born in Norway
about fiO years ago and has hern a res-
dent of Maui for more than 30 years.
He worked at his trade of
blacksmith for a number of years
in Makawao, Hana, and other places
but for many years past he has been
the forester in charge of the tree
planting on IIaleakala,s slope in vic
inity of Kailiili, as an employee of the
ditch company representing the plan-'
tations of the Maui Agricultural Co.
This forestoring was and is of con
siderable importance as often 100,000
trees annually are set out on the
mountain side. Mr. Hannested was
a worthy citizen in every respect who
thought and read much concerning
life.s problems.
He was so scrupously honest that
he resented disonesty in all Its forms
and like Longfellow.s village dlack-
smith could look the whole world In
the face for he owed not any man.
The funeral occured on the after
noon of the 8th and was largely at
tended. Rev. S. Craig Bowdish eon
ducted the services both at Paia
Church and Makawao cemetary.
A choir composed of Mrs. Cameron,
Mrs. Stevens, Miss Roe, and Mr I).
C. Lindsay sany some well known
hymns. Tho paul bearers were:
Messrs. II. W, Rice, Manning S. Hock
ing, W. S. Nicoll, James Lindsuy and
Dr. W. D. Ballwin.
Kolb of Honolulu, and one son. Soil
ren Hannested, a graduate of Yale
and a lawer now practicing in the
East.
Fire Threatens Masonic
Temple In Kahului
The Masonic Temple in Kahului had
a narrow escape from being destroyed by
fire last Saturday night, when a num
ber of packing boxes full of excelsior,
which were piled p.t the building caught
fire from some unknown cause. The lodge
happened to be in session, however, at
the time, and a number of chemical extin
guishers soon had the blaze under con
trol. Spontaneous combustion, or a lighted
cigar thrown from a window, was the
probable cause.
,
TO CONSIDER NEXT RACE
MEET
CARD OF THANKS.
Mr. anl Mrs. Geo. W. Wilbur take
this means of thanking their many
friends for the many expressions
anl tokens of sympathy in their re
cent bereavement.
PINEAPPLE PACK DECREASING
According to J. D. Dole, President Of
the Hawaiian Pineapple Company, in
his annual report, the outlook for the
1916 pineapple pack is 25 percent less
than last year. This is due to much
land having abandoned on arcount of
the fact that tt will no longer produce
the fruit profltly, and because of low
prices of the past two seasons. Th
outlook for the present year is for less
than 1,50000,0 rases agairrst a total
of 1,984,785 cases for last year.
The 1917 pack is likely to be still
less Mr. Dole thinks. ,
To consider the matter of the next
Fourth of July races, an important meet
ing of the Maui Racing Association has
been called for next Tuesday evening,
aa the Wailuku town hall. Some new
plans for holding the annual meet have
been proposed, and it is hoped that the
meeting will be well attended.
Moose Planning Unique
Relief Entertainment
INTER ISLAND TO DECLARE
BIG STOCK DIVIDEND
It is expected that the Intcr-lsland
Stearn Navigation Company will this
month declare a stock dividend of pro
bably $750,000. The company is now
capitalized at $2,225,000 and its shares
are held on the stock exchange at about
$250, or 150 per cent above par
The company has at present in undivid
ed surplus and profits, about $ 1 ,500,, 000.
The members of the local
Lodge of the LoytU Order of
Moose have decided to give a
Benefit Dance in tho very
near future at Taia, the net
proceeds of the aflair to bo
donated to tho Wailuku Relief
Committee. An interesting
feature of the affair is that it
will be called " A Kona
Storm Danco" and tho mon
bers of order and their wives
and friends will bo asked to
to appear as much as possi
ble in their Kona storm cloth
es, so that those who attend
the same will be rewarded to
see some terpsichoreans who
will look like real refugees.
Someonehas whispered that
Carl Rose will appear in tho
role of life saver with a six
inch hauser tied around tho
body of his Chinese victin.
Admission Fee will be $1,00
for gentlemen, ladies free.
Even the music will be a
Kona Storm atl'air batteredby
rain wind and flood All arr
augments are in charge of
John M. Medeiros of Paia.
Honolulu may yet become famous
as a celebrated center for the expira
tion of fish stork.
The Maui High School baseball
team defeated a team representing
the Pain public school last Saturday
on the PaJa field by the score of 15 to
1. This is the first of a series of five
games to be played on succeslve
Saturdays.
