Daily and Sunday
HERALD
30
Cents a
Month
DELIVERED TO YOUR HOME.
THE
HERALD
AS first announced January 1. 1916 Tbe Herald
?guarantee? full money'? worth to the purchaaer*?
of article* advertised m thr di?p.**\ lumni of thi?
paper by any V ashm$rton merchant.
(Circular Faneiskei Upo? Rtqmttf).
NO. .3404.
WEATHER?OVERCAST; SAME TEMPERATURE.
WASHINGTON. D. C. FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 11. 1916.
ON ? CKNT.
TEUTONS WILL BEGIN
NEW U-BOAT WAR ON
MERCHANT SHIPPING
Central Powers Warn United States They
Will Launch Crusade Against Armed
Enemies' Ships Beginning March 1.
TO ATTACK WITHOUT WARNING
U. S. Will Urge Disarmament, but Proposal Is Unpopular.
State Department May Cease to Maintain that
Armed Vest?s Should Be Warned.
Germany and Austria have informally advised the United States
government that beginning March 1, they will launch a vigorous sub
marine campaign against enemy merchant shipping and that they pro
pose to attack armed ships of this character without warning.
Apprehensive of the consequences of the German and Austrian
decision, the United States has forwarded the information to its em
bassies at tlie capitals of the entente powers, to be used by them, it ia
believed, in efforts to get favorable consideration for the identic pro
posals recently put forth by the American government looking to an
agreement for the general disarmament of,merchant vessels.
Although no official replies have been received to these proposals,
the United States has already been given to understand by the British
Ambassador Itere that they cannot be agreed to.
*.# Ammtrn t ?. ,. ?* aa ta* Ttt*.4
partment Is seriously considering; the
advisability of reversing: Ita position
taken earlier In the war that armed
merchant ships cannot be attacked
without warning, and Issuing; a cenerai
warning to American traveler? to keep
off armed liners.
Both Germany and Austria, through
their embassies here, have Informed
Secretary of State Lansing that In view
of the important development of the
submarine as an instrument of marine
warfare and its vulnerability, the cen
tral powers have taken the position
that armed vessels cannot be regarded
except a? auxiliary warships.
Not to Street ?ettlement.
Official? of the State Department ar?
aot inclined to believe that the new de
velopment will Interfere with the flnal
settlement of the I.ulstania contro
versy, which did not Involve, in the de
mands made by tbe Untt??jd State?, any
stipulation regarding protection for
armed ships. Originally Germany had
attempted Justiflcatlon of the Lusi
tania attack on the ground that ?he
carried mounted guns, but when lt
w?s shown that she did not this conten
tion was dropped.
Notice of the Intentions of the Teu
tonic powers wa? flret given definitely
to Mr. Lansing last Friday, when
Count von Bernstorff presented the
Berlin memorandum, which "substanti
ally" agreed to give the satisfaction
demanded In the Lusitania case. On
that occasion. It was learned last
night, the Ambassador presented an
otner memorandum from his govern
ment, ?cautioning the United State?
that the settlement of the Lusitani?
case could not be accepted ln any way
as pledging Germany not to attack
armed merchantmen without warning,
anil advising the Secretary that a for
mal notification of Germany's inten
tion-? could be expected before March
I, after which date German submarines
would attack and aim to sink all yme?t
enemy ships on sight.
?May Abandon Stand.
Austria's notification was presented
to "the Setretury on Wednesday by
Raron Zwledlnek. charge of the Aus
trian embassy, lt was along the lines
of the memorandum presented by
Count von Bernstorff.
While It I? realined In State Depart
ment circlea that conaiderable embarrass
ment might be caused the l'nited States
hy accepting the German position regard
ing the liability of ai-mnxl merchant ships
to attack without warning, the feeling
has been for some time that the United
S?tatefl should abandon ita earlier stand.
This feeling was clearly reflected ln the
informal proposais sent to the allies.
The embarrassment, it is stated, would
arise from the fact that In refuslrrg the
demand of Austria and the suggestion of
Germany that an embargo be placed on
the traffic In arme and ammunition be
tween the United States and the entente
??ountriea, the SUte Department took the
position that to make any chanrje in
rale? during the progrew of the war
which operai? against one side or the
other would be a breach uf neutrality.
Herman A. Metz Weds Again.
New York. fab. 10.? Herman A. Metz,
millionaire, former city comptroller and
representative in Congrega who waa
divorced last autumn in Reno, and Mrs.
Alie? M. Nurman, who got a divorce In
th? Bronx last October, were married
today In Stamford. Conn. The present
Mrs Men is the mother of three small
boys. *
Durai? Taken. Vienna Reports.
Vienna. Feb. li.?A dispatch from
Cettinje says It la reported there that
Austro-Hungarian troons have reached
r*uras?o and are occupying the Al
banian city without resistance.
Andre Buitonoby Dead.
New Tork. Keb. 10.?Andre Bustunoby.
one of tha best-known ?"??tauranteurs of
thl? It?, d.?-d t~)a-, at h!r*r home iroui
unii mon ?? aitar an operation.
MAKES PEACE
WITH AUSTRIA
Prince Mirko, of Montenegro,
Reported Negotiating
Final Terms.
KING NICHOLAS WASHES
HANDS OF WHOLE AFFAIR
A Refugee in France. He Declare? He
Will Stick by Allies Through
out !r.e mtr.
Spedai Cable to Th? Waahimttoe Barali
Pari?, Feb. 10.?Prince Mirko and
certain merbers of the Montenegrin
government are reported to be negoti
ating final termi of peace wtth Austria.
Color le lent to thle report by the
failure of the prince and other go?*
ernment officials to follow the retreat?
Ing Montenegrin army.
King Nicholas, who Is now In France,
has Issued a statement In which he
washes his hands of the affair, and
proclaims his Intention of remaining
true to the allies. The following state
ment explaining his connection with
the original negotiations with Austria
was Issued tonight on the King's be
half by Premier Mlouchlovltch:
"With the object of enabling cer
tain distant contingents to Join our
? hard-pressed troops on another front
! ?n armistice was demanded and re
| fused. Peace pourparlers were then
I begun with the same purpose. Auta
? tria's conditions were naturally ener
| getlcaJly rejected. The royal family
| then had to flee Into exile In order to
avoid falling Into the enemy's handa
Ha? Ordere to Keep I'p Fight.
"In order to encourage the unfortu
nate Montenegrin troops, exhausted by
fatigue and privations, to supreme re
elstence. King Nicholas had to leave
with them a prince of his house and
three members of the government.*'
I-andlng ln Italy on January SO, the
King telegraphed Gen. Voukotlteh.
chief of the Montenegrin armies, re
peating the following orders so as to
dissipate all equivocation:
1. Energetically resist the enemy.
2. Retreat must be made In the di
rection of the Serbian army.
S. No pourparlers must be under
taken by any one under any pretext.
4. The prince and the members of
the government must follow the re
treating armies.
Beyond a strict execution of the
orders outlined above, the King and
the regular government are not respon
sible fey acts following their departure
whosoever may be the authors, nor
for anything that happens under the
authority and Influence of the
vader."
Woman Under Knife 98 Times.
New York, Feb. ML?Mra Rose Vitella,
of Yonker?. was preparing today to
undergo an operation?the ninety-eight ?
tor her in the last nine years, she sal'l.
The first time she felt the surgeon's
knife wa? when she had appendicitis.
Since then she has spent nearly all her
time either preparing or convalescing
from operations "I've been through so
many that they come as eort of a
pleasure," she said. y
Five Naval Battles in Adriatic.
Rome, Feb. 10.?Five nava"l engage
ments of varying importance have Just
taken place In the Adriatic. An Ital
ian torpedo destroyer, while escorting
an allied cruiser, sighted an Austrian
destroyer of the Hussard type, and
also an Austrian hydro-aeroplan*. The
Italian cruiser opened Are and Ihe
Austrian ship fled track to its bas? In
th? (Julr of CatUre
WILSON DEFENDS
NEUTRAL STAND
OF GOVERNMENT
President Tells U. S. Chamber
of Commerce Policy Is Not
Based on Selfishness.
MUST KEEP BALANCE
Executive Repeats Warning
that War Flames May Ex
tend to This Country.
TARIFF COMMISSION IS URGED
Declares Nation Will Be Thrust Into
Economic Leadership of World
During Next Decade.
With an address by President Wilson
on economic and industrial preparedness,
a remarkable d?monstration of another
kind of prepai^dnees?the uniting of the
country by means of the telephone?and
a banquet at the New Willard, the fourth
annual convention of the United State?
Chamber of Commerce was brought to
a close last night.
Prealdent Wilson declared that the
"watchful waiting" policy of the United
States In regard to the European conflict
was Justified and asserted that be for
one was not afraid of the alow verdict
of history with regard to the neutrality
of the United State?. He aald that the
whole world now Is "hot" and that tha
flame at any time might extend to thl?
country.
"The reneon for our neutrality." he
said, "Is not a selfish ?reason, but the Im
perativ? necessity that the balance be
kept even, and some energies kept alive
along the ordinary occupations of Indus
try and mutual helpfulness. We have not
kept out of thia war simply be-cause we
wanted to k?sep out of trouble, or to prof
It by th? trouble of other?"
The President declared that ln the
coming decade the United States will be
thrust Into the economic leadership of
the world, through the Instrumentant!??*?
of the mobllt?at1on of Industrial ?and com
mercial 1nstrnmentallt1.se. He held out a
ch?s*?rlng v1?1on for the future of the
Amerlc-an business man. but wam?ed the
delegates that after the war they should
have to "get a move on."
Cor Ttarfff Commlaaion.
The advocating of a scientific tariff
commission provoked a storm of ap
plause. The President also advocated a
larger merchant marine and the enact
ment of the proposed shipping hill a? an
experimental measure.
He referred briefly lo the International
position nf the United States by saying
that lt wa? keeping alive th? "little flame
of peace," and pointed to the Federal
Reserve System end the Federal Trade
Commission as some of the agencies that
had been established to meet new eco
nomic problems growing out of the war.
Immediately preceding the address of
the President, Vice President Klrrxsbury.
of the American Telephone and Tele
graph Company, gave a brief history of
the telephone since its Inception.
A receiver was placed at each plate
and following the address long distance
connections were made to Pittsburgh.
New Tork, Chicago, Omaha. Lincoln.
Neb.: Denver. Salt Lake City. Wlnnemark.
Nev. : Ran Francisco, and Sacramento,
and then back through the same cities.
When connection was made with Sacra
mento. Governor Johnson was called to
the 'phone, and after President Fahey,
of the Chamber, had extended greeting
from President Wilson and those pres
ent. Governor Johnson. In a voice as
clear as though he was merely across
the street, extended the greetings of Cali
fornia to the Chamber of Commerce.
Greetings also were exchanged between
Governor Morehead, of Nebraska, and
Prealdent Fahey.
Though the deliberation of the Chamber j
was brought to a close yesterday, the ]
electron of a successor to John H Fahey. |
the retiring president, wss left until |
today. With several names being promi
nently mentioned for the office, it ls ex
pected that a warm sectional fight will
ensue.
Four Killed in Explosion.
Salisbury, Md., Feb. 10.?A terrific ex- '
plosion occurred late this afternoon at
Athol, about one mile west of here, when !
the boiler ln the saw mill plant of j
Graham and Hurley blew up. killing out- ?
right William Phillips. Emory Coul- |
bourne, Webb ?,??????, and Charles Za- j
breas ?nd seriously injuring Slatoni
Bvans, John Zabreas and Bradley Za
breax.
Coal Miners' Demand Refused.
Mobile, Ala.. Feb. 1?>.?The mine run de
mand was rejected today by repre-aentn
tlves of the coal mine operators ln Joint
conference with the wage scale commit
tee of the l'nited Mine Workers. Tb?
mine workA-s state they will stand pat
for their demands.
Armenian Massacres Renewed.
Geneva, Feb. 10. ?Another massacre of
Armenians by Turks Is under way, ac
cording to sdvtces to Geneva an?! Reme
newspapers. Men and boys ?re being
executed in hat. bes while many young
women and girla ai? being ?curled off as
'GARRISON QUIT
JOB AS CLERK'
AVERS HARVEY
Editor Declares Former Sec
retary Refused to Allow
? Self to Be Trod On.
ONLY DANIELS LEFT
First Quarrel Over Joseph
Davies' Suggested Appoint
ment by Wilson.
OFFERED TO RESIGN THEN
"Presumes Such Affronts So Angered
Him that He Quit," Concludes
Old Friend.
Rratrtal te Ttt Weafclna-la-an Barreal
New aTork. Feb. 10.?Col. George Har
vey. editor of the North American Re
view, a very close friend of Secretary
Garrison, aaid tonight:
"It Is a great misfortune that th?
ablest member of the Cabinet ahould haar?
been called upon to resign. But, thank
God. we have the Honorable and only
Joaephus Daniels left.
"Garrison resigned because he refused
to continue as ? clerk under Preaident
Wilson. There have been many clashes
between the President and the Secretary
of War since the administration took
hold In ?13.
The ?..? '(..aarra-l
"The first real quarrel, however, oc
curred when the Presldaent sought to
make Joseph Davlea governor general
of the Philippines to succeed Francis
Burton Harrison. Garrison was In Ohio
looking after the floods at the time. He
learned the President's purpose to ap
point Pav.es from a trustworthy source
He hastened back to Washington and
sailed upon the President.
" ? hear you are going to appoint Da
vi?? governor general of the Philip
pine??' dunanded Garrison of the Presi
de,,, Thr. rrr.temeit Mushed nirnsen
Then be admitted: ? had thought of
doing so, |f Oov. Harrison Insists upon
resigning.'
"'Well, the Philippines are ln my de
partment. 8end In Davi?? nomination and
take my resignation' responded Garrison.'
'At least you n?*ght have consulted with
me before deciding on a msji.' added the
Secretary of War as he left the room.
The President did not name Davies be
cauae Garrison withdrew his resignation.
- ample of Treatment.
"This Is but a sample of the treatment
Garrison has raecelved front the Presi
dent. Garrison Is a great, big man. Ha
ts the most independent member of the
administration. I presume constant af
fronts such as that Indicated ln the pro
posed Davies appointment have ao
angered hltn that he haa concluded te
quit. Who ran blame him?"
"It Is said the President and Mr. Gar
rison have had very serious differences
over the preparedness program. That Is
true. Garrison believes In a centlnental
army. The President has apparently
turned that proposition down.
Garrison quit because he would no
longer be a clerk to the President."
AVIATORS RAID SMYRNA.
French \ irmen Root lirrnaa Plane?
and Drop Bomb? om Barra??!,?.
Athens. Feb. 10.?Two hundred Turkish
soldiers were killed and scores wounded,
three military warehouses burned and
two ships sunk by French aviators, who
made a successful attack upon Smyrna
on Tuesday. Details of the raid, which
was made by a squadron of seven aero
planes, are given In advices received
from Mltyclene today.
Fire from antl-alr craft guns was
immediately opened upon the daring
French fliers and two German aeroplanes
which rose to meet them were routed In
a coufllct lasting only a few moments
and then the work of destruction pro
ceeded.
Bomb- were dropped upon buildings in
which supplies for the Turkish troop?
were stored. Three of these burned. Tw?,
bombs smashed a section of the Ottoman
barracks, killing or wounding all the
soldiers there. Two vessels also were
sunk at their docks and three others
damaged.
Explosion Wrecks Chemical Plant.
Elisabeth, N. J.. Feb. 10.?An explos
ion today destroyed a wing of the Mld
vale Chemical Company's plant in this
dty.
The loss Is estimated at S30.0OO. M. J.
Wallace, who gave his address as Chi
cago, was arrested as he walked from
the burning building. s
Belvidere Brooks Dead.
New York, Feb. 1"?Belvidere Brooks.
vice president and general manager of
the Western I'nion Telegraph Company,
?lied suddenly today. Mr. Brooks was
?ssentlally a self-mad? man, rising from
a messenger boy to be in eecond In com
mand of the greatest telegraph system
In the world. He wss ij ye%rs old.
Barcelona Made Free Port.
Madrid. Feb. in.--Thr Spanish go?ern
ment has decided to make Barcelona a
tro? pork
GARRISON RESIGNS
AFTER BREAK WITH
WILSON ON DEFENSE
LD7DLEY M
PINDELL MAY
LAND PLACE
Illinois Editor Declared to
Have Received Summons
to Capital.
REFUSES TO COMMENT ON
THE CAUSE FOR HIS TRIP
President Declared to Be Anxious to
Conciliate Democrats of Middle
West State.
Peor?a. 111.. Feb. 10.?Henry N. Plndell,
publisher of the Peor?a Journal. U slated
to succeed Lindley M. Garrison as Sec
retary of War, accordine to Information
grlven out here tonight. Mr. plndell has
been called to Washington and will leave
here Saturday. He haa be>en instructed to
be In Washington on Tuesday. He refused
to either confirm or deny the report that
ho wa? to become a member of President
Wilson's official family.
'*l have nothlnr to eay." wa? Mr. Pln
dell'a reply tonight.
The probable selection of Mr. Plndell.
it is said, is due to the fact tbat the
President Is desirous of recognizing Illi
nois and Mr. Pindell ln ? substantial way
before the close of his term of office. It
will be remembered that Mr Pindell was
appointed amba-ssador to Russia, but wae
euchred out of the post at Petrograd
through the effort? of Secretary of State i
?ryan.
Another incident which left r bad taste
in the mouths of Illinois Democrats is
the fact that President Wilson refused
to give his specific indorsement to Roger
Sullivan, candidate for the l'nited State?
Senatorship in 1914. The defeat of Sul
livan is also generally attributed to Bry
an. Consequently, the Democracy of Illi
nois looks upon the probable selection of
Mr. Pindell as an attempt by the Presi
dent to square matters In Illinois. Mr.
Ptndell is a lifelong Democrat.
MEXICANS SLAY AMERICAN.
Bodlea of Kite limitili* l.itind "Where
Mini?? Miln Made Laat ?(and.
El Paao, Texas. Feb. 1*0.?Word wa? re
ceived here ttxlay that Guy Johnson, an
American mining: man. has been slain br
Mexicain bandits near Orainpo. 8tate of
Chihuahua.
Jobneon had evidently fought to the
last and sold his life dearly for the
corpses, of five Mexicana ?ere found near
by.
Arkansas Town Under Martial Law.
Edmondeon. Ark. Feb. 10? Heavily
armed deputy sherlfTs arrived here to?
?day. took charge of the town and prac
tically put It under martial law. "Se
rious trouble Is feared as the reeult of
the killing by a gang of negroes of a
white boy ?ho li-id shot Andy Fleming,
a negro.
Anarchists' Bomb Factory Raided.
Lisbon, trio. 1ft?The police raided ran
anarchistic bomb factory today, confis
cating thirty loaded and forty unloaded
bomb?, many rifles and piatola and
freat quantity o? exploeiv??.
GARRISON
GARRISON NOW
IN NEW YORK
In High Spirits, Retiring Sec
retary Refuses to Dis
* cuss Plans.
WITH MRS. GARRISON. HE
POSES FOR FLASHLIGHT
Declines to .Say Where He Is Going,
but Intimates He Will Avoid
Publicity.
Sied?', u. TI,? Waahiiituai Ber??!
New York, Feb. 10.?Mr. Garrison a<a
companled by Mrs. Garrison, arrlvasd here
on the Congressional limited, from Waah
ington at ?M o'clock tonight.
The retiring Secretary of War was to
high spirits and laughingly greeted the
group of newspapermen awaiting hlra.
"Not a word; absolutely nothing to
say," he answered to questions as to
re.asons for his sudden resignation. "Tou
win have to get all your Information
from tbe White House. I suppose ther*
will be about twenty-five reasons as
signed' he added, "but none of them wtu
come from me."
In answer to Inquiry a? to the reason?
for the coincident resignation of Assistant
Se-retary of War Breckinrldge. Mr. Gar
rison replied :
"Mr. Breckinrldge will have to speak
for himself. I have troubles enough of
my own."
After posing for a flash-light photo
graph. Mr. and Mrs. Garrison, ac?-om
panied by some friends who meet them,
entered a waiting motor and were driven
away. The former Secretary of War de
clined to say where he was going.
"It will be some place where none or
you can And me for a while" was his
parting shot.
It la understood thst Mr. and Mra
Garrison are the guests of George Iyear>,
a personal friend at Via Fifth avenue.
Super-Siibmannes Launched.
The Hague. Feb. 10.?Three super
submarines, superior ln speed and
equipment to any underwater craft
built by any nation, have Just been
finished by German workmen at Kiel.
according to reports that reached
Dutch naval officials today. Bach Is
said to carry seven torpedo tubes and
to be able to proceed 7,000 mile? with
out replenishing fuel.
Women Strikers Fight in Street.
New Tork, Feb. 10.?While thou
sands of pedestrians ln Broadway
looked on fifty striking garment work
ers this afternoon attacked the shop of
th? Rosenberg Manufacturing Com
pany. When police reserve? reached
the scene a pitched battle was raging.
Six women were arrested
.Allies Re-enforce Italians.
Rome, Feb. 10.?Allied troops are
reported to have been* landed at Valona
(Avalona). Albania, to reinforce th?
Italian and Servian forces, which ar?
defending the eity Valona Is the ob
jective of a Bulgarian army, which
has been advancing slowly through
southern Albania.
BRECKINRIDGE OUT
WITH HIS SUPERIOR;
COURSE UNOPPOSED
President Accepts Resignations, to
Take Effect at Once, Without
Question and Correspondence
Is Made Public.
HOUSE MAY GET PORTFOLIO
Former Secretary Leaves for New York Before
Executive Acts?Continental Army
?Scheme Causes Upheaval
In Cabinet.
Secretary of Wer Lindley M. Garrison resigned yesterday from
the Wilson Cabinet. The r<esignation has been accepted.
Differences between the President and the Secretary of War ?ever
the question of preparedness and the Philippine independence leg??
lation were responsible for the break.
At the same time that he accepte?? the resignation, the Preside??
received and accepted the resignation of Henry Breckinrldge. Assist
ant Secretary of War. Mr. Breckinridge gave as his reason the fact
that he indorse absolutely the position assumed by Mr. Garrison, and.
like the latter, regarded the differences as being irreconcilable.
Army Plan Cans? of Break.
Action by the President in practically withdrawing administra
tion support from the Garrison continental army plan, and manifesting
a willingness to treat with the opponents of the plan on the basis of a
proposal to increase the National Guard at the expense of the proposed
continental army, is understood to have precipitated the break.
Although it has been rumored for some time that Secretary Gar
rison felt that the President was not giving his army preparedness
pro?gram the support to which it was entitled, news of the resignation
struck official Washington like a thunderbolt.
CONSIDERED A SEVERE BLOW
By the advocates of national defense and preparedness it is regard
ed as the severest blow that could be struck.
Secretary Garri-on was regarded by them as the most forceful ad
vocate of the cause. From the time he entered the Cabinet and became
acquainted with the weaknesses of the present anny system, he has been
a consistent champion of a bigger regular army and an adequate re
serve under Federal control.
President Wilson, on the other hand, it is realized, has not inspired
an equal degree of confidence.
At first opposed to any increase in the military establi-hment what
soever, and a pronounced believer in the effectiveness of tlie ?emergency
volunteer system, it is felt that his change of front came only after the
country at large was awakened by the Furopean war to the danger?
threatening the nation : and that even then there was a degree of luke
warmness in his advocacy of ?jrreater preparedness that cast ?doubt m
the public mind as to his sincerity. To a certain extent the same has
been said about Secretary of the Navy Daniels.
MAY TEND TO SHAKE CONFIDENCE
It is feared, therefore, that the retirement of Secretary Garrison
from the Cabinet will not only result in a general lack of confidence in
the administration's plans, but will result in a cleavage in Congress
between the extreme militarists and the extreme pacifist* which will
be hard to reconcile.
Particularly costly, it is feared, will be the proljaMe withdrawal of
the active support of Republicans like former Secretaries of War Root
and Stimson and Senator Lodge, whose vigorous indorsement of the
Garrison plan gave it considerable strength among tlie Republicans in
Congress.
Secretary Garrison, it is stated, has from the first doubted the sin
cerity of the President's course with respect to the armv legislation
Mr. Garrison's friends last night called attention to the fact that he
had drawn up his program at the request of the President, who. early
last summer, shortly after the resignation of Mr. Brvan as S^ecretarr
of State, had called upon both Secretary Garrison and Secretary Daniels
to submit comprehensive recommendations for the building op of th?
two branches of the service io accordant"*, as far as practicable, wu.
the best thought of the anny and na\y experts.
PLANS SUBMITTTJ) LAST FALL
Both pUns were submitted early last fall to the president 4fr*
that time Secretary Garrison strongly urged that the administratif
should enter at once upon a campaign of ?educa tints which, by the time
Congress met in December, would liave thoroughly ?wakened the
public.
Although the !'resident approved tlie recommendations ot Secre
tary Daniels without much delay, the Garrison plan lay ior wnek? mi
