That Country Home
Co to It oia The T-D Want Ad
Page, For Sale or to Let
lUdimonu Cnnes-Si
To Buy or Sell
Remember the Easiest Way,T-D
Want Ads?Randolph One
66th YEAR
VOMIMP. M
M.M IlKIt II
RICHMOND, VA., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1916. ?FOURTEEN PAGES.
WKATIIKU 1/
r %?;??: j
?FAIR
PRICE, 2 CENTS
SECRETARY OF WAR GARRISON RESIGNS
BECAUSE OF BREAK WITH PRESIDENT
House Adopts Resolution Giving
Supervisors Precedence Over
Highway Commissioner.
SECRETIVE POLICY CRITICIZED
Senate Calls for Secret Communi
cations From Tax Board to
Finance Committee.
Delegates from rural ami urban Vir
ginia staged another act of the peren
nial drama of rivalry between th'-se
two factions, in tlio form of a pro
longed debute, yesterday on House bill
No. 121. which proposes to apply to
|j| road maintenance the revenue from the
automobile tax applied under the pres
ent law to the construction of now
roads and bridges.
After voting down ev?ry amendment
I offered by the representatives of Nor
folk arid other eltiea looking to a dis
tribution of the automobile tax that
would Insure to the cities some degree
of benefit from this revenue, the House,
shortly before adjournment, attached
an amendment t.> the bill which provides
that whenever the .stat<- Hlirhwny Com
missioner arid the !o ? ;i 1 Hoard of Su
pervisors du ai; i <-e us to the manner
of applying the fund locally, the oj.in
lon of the supervisors shall prevail.
The amendment was introduced by
Ocleentrt Cordon, <-f I,'?uls-i. and
? adopted by a vote of .*fi tn nr;
WII.I, \ I 1,1,11'v MOST
t'o.vs'rm ( tivic itti \n i.i:?.isi,\ i iov
Friends of the bill declared openly
that !f this amendment is permitted
to remain, it will nullify the most con
structive pb'.e of road legislation that
lia.s b'Cn Introduced in the Ceneral As
sembly In years. It virtually taken out
? of this hands of the State Highway
1 "ommissioner every vestige of au
thority over the expenditure of the
re von ue from the automobile tax and
transfers It to the local authorities.
Delegate Norrls, of l>ancaster. speak
intr to his motion to reconsider tlie
vote by which the amendment was
adopted, pointed out the danger that
the change portends.
fh:a amendment it.< ans that' the
. State Highway Commissioner will l,.
deprived of any control over the ex
penditure of a fund which his depart-j
incnt has used to construct highways in
??very section of the State. While I
have heard the criticism that the State'
ll:Rh\%ay l.oninitssioii'r enjoys pow#?j s I
? th.t i^re too m?-at. and am not under
taking now to dkciua this phase of
the qucs'lon. I do know that in the
sections of the State with which I am
familiar the work done under the di
rection of this department is bett< r
than could have been expecti-d if it.
had been left to the local authorities.
TAKFS I'llO.M Ccnntis.SlOM.it
K\ i:h \ \ KSTKii: or ,\ i thoiuty
??Now you propose by this amendment
to take from the Highway Commis
sioner every vest if;e of authority ir> di
recting tho expenditure of the auto
mobile tax f..r the upkeep >.f tho roa-ls
that have been built from taxes <|#-.
rivod from the f tate at large and under
his direction. It is natural to assume j
that he should know better what is
needed for the maintenance of t(ic dlf- '
ferent kinds of roads than the mem
bers of a lay board unfamiliar with
this work, if each county is to be
given the authority to decide upon this
important question for It3elf, and that
Is virtually what tho amendment pro- !
.vldes, wo may as well do away with,
this hill altogether."
Delegate Herkley I). Adams, one of
the patrons of the bill, reminded the
members that the revenue from the
automobile tax is now expended under
the exclusive direction of the State'
Highway Commission as part of the i
"money aid" fund, and that the local 1
authorities have no control. The bill i
provides that hereafter tho Highway '
Commission an.I (he local authorities!
shall jointly agree on the manner of I
Its expenditure. To take also this de- I
greo of control away from the com
missioner, he s.'iid, would practically
nullify the good effects of (he bill.
CAItS US1J COIWTKV HoADS,
WHICH HAVE TIIKlIt TAX j
Delegates Meetze and Cordon de
fended the amendment, holding that, !
even though the automobile tax is de
rived in largest part from urban auto- j
"? mobile owners, the machines make ex
tensive use of country roads, and that
for this reason tho Income from this
source should be expended on the main
tenance of theso roads under tho direc
tion of the local authorities, whenever
these and the Highway Commissioner
fail to agree.
Delegate Moss. of I-ynchburg. j
thought that the amendment was sub- i
verslvo of the plain purpose of the j
bill, and that the House should discuss
\ tho amendment fully before voting
finally on the motion to reconsider the
vote, by which it was adopted. Dele
gate Lcedy rose to add his voice
against the amendment, but deferred
his speech until to-day in favor of a
motion to adjourn because of the. late
ness of tho hour. Tho bill is on the
calendar on its second reading.
criticisms of SBcniyrivic
POLICY OF FINANCR COM MITT 10F,
Sharp criticism of llie Senate Finance
Committee In surrounding communica
Hons from the State Advisory Hoard on
Taxation and other State officials on
matters relating to estimated revenue
deficiencies with a veil of secrecy was
voiced..In tho Senate yesterday In a
discussion of a resolution introduced
by Senator Weudenburg, requiring the
(Continued on Tonth rago7> "
* <?I.KMAY WOltTIIAM.
i Succeeds William T. Heed, Who Has
Been President Two
Terms.
. D.AIiXKt OI'TJ,I\i;s PItOJKCT
Would Organize $ | ,000,000 Loan
< ompan.v to Finance Krection of
Homes for Working People of
?Moderate Means.
There arc ninety-nine needs for
Richmond. explained Rtislness Manager
William T. J>abney at the annual meet
ing of the Chamber of Commerce in
the Jefferson Hotel last night, but ti:o
three most urgent. are better homes for
1 workinginen iuid for small Industries
that are already here, rather than the
search for new ones t?> tlio neglect of
the old, and the development of small
farms within a radius cf fifty miles of
Richmond.
i I he organization of a ntock company
I with a capitalization of JI.OOO.OOO sub
scribed 1>\ the members of the charn
, l.'r could easily take care of these vital
projects, he explained, and the other
, ninety-six of Richmond wotild
automatically take care of themselves.
Officers for the year were elected,
broadening of tho sidier.- and the policy
of tii?- chamber by having monthly
moetlngs and dinners was urged, and
the outgoing president. William T.
Heed, read his annual report. In which
he told of the work of the various com
mitters during 1915, and his recom
mendations for 1016.
C01,KM.\M AVOIITHAM IS
UI.KCTKI) I'll ICs 11)|; vi*
| Coleman Wortham. who served as
, second vice-president last y. ar, was
J elected president; i:. C. Laird was re
elected first vice-president; John C.
i I-'afcley was elected second vice-prcsl
dent; K. L>. Dun lop was re-elected aec
i rotary and treasurer, and William T
i lJabney is once more business manager."
! Mve new directors were elected.
n,e as fallows: Georgo Hryan, l?r
Alexander Urown, Fritz Sltterdlng
Oliver J. Sands and John G. Walker
' Recording to the by-laws of the cham
ber, the terms of five members of the
| board of directors expired. l>r Stuart
MeGuire and M. J. Straus declined re
I election; John C. Kasley was elected to
second vice-president, and If. <;. Carter
land ?irover C. Dnla were dropped, hai
ling served out their allotted time
| The complete list of the board of
directors as it Is at present follows:,
W. II. Adams. Hugh Antrim. John Kerr
Branch. W. H. Jlroaddus. George Brvan.
?r Alexander <;. ltrown. a. m. Cannon.
' -/"'V!\-u T rovton Tulien
ill. Hill, Herbert W. Jackson, I. j. Mn,_
cuse, Charles T. Xorinan, J. t. Palma
tary j Scott Parrlsh, John R Pinder.
H. T. Pow.-is, Oliver J. Sands, w. n
fcchwarMchlld. Fritz Sltterdlng, George
|W Stevens, A. O. Swlnk, John M. Tny-i
lor. Warren J'. Taylo,- and John O.
I >\ n lkor.
LA III I) DKCMVKS j
VOMINATIO.V FOH PItl3SII)R\cy
| When It was announced that the I
i election of officers was in order, A. M '
(Cannon nominated 13. C. Laird for presi
jdent. but Mr. Laird declined, saying
| that It was impossible for lilrn to serve
lat present because of business reasons,
j Ho thanked tho members for consider
ing his name, and after declining I
placed in nomination Colemnn Wnr
tham. Mr. Wortliam was elected
| unanimously, as wero all of the other
j officers, and members of tho board of
directors. I
J- I>. Crump nominated Mr. Laird
as first vice-president, which nomKa-l
(Ion was accepted. O. J. Sands noml-l
nated John C. Kasley for second vice-"
president, which was seconded by T. M
Cannon Tho outgoing presldont nomi
nated Mr. Dunlop for secretary and
treasurer, and this was seconded by
Judge George l. Christian. Augustine
Kojall nominated William T. Dabntv
for business manager.
The newly elected officers spoke
briefly in thanking the 000 members,
present, for tho honor. President-Elect
(Continued on Fifth"Page.) J
I EDUCATORS AWAIT ]
i STUART'S APPROVAL1
;
: Draw Up Tentative Report to
Senate on Schoolbook
j Adoption.
REASONS FOR SELECTIONS
Pollard Cancels Engagements at
Governor's Request to Attend
Meeting To-Day.
Although the various meu.bi;! s
I grappled manfully for more than four
hours yesterday afternoon and evening,
i the Ktati! Hoard of Education has as
j yet formulated no answer to .Senate
revolution No. 10, which asked for an
explanation of the recent textbook
adoption In the State's primary schools.
Perhaps if Governor Stuart had been
( present the hoard ?ml??ht have airr? ed.
I>ut the chief executive was absent in
I Petersburg. Much of the work done
j on yesterday afternoon may count for
naught. therefore, when th?* boird re
convenes at 11 o'clock this morning i
| again to attempt to get together in a
; reply to the Sennte.
When Governor Stuart returned to
I the city late last night. he was told'
of the somewhat tentative agreement!
jas to the majority and minority fac
tions on the board with regard to the
J textbook adoption.
jSTUAUT PKHSl.AIIKS I'llIJ.AItll
TO STAY KOIl mketim; TO-DAV
H?* was unwilling to comment, or to
! Indicate his position in the matter until1
j he had all the facts before him re
gardlr.j? the meeting on yesterday, lie
would not say whether or not he would '
? subscribe to the policy as outlined in
|i!:o statement drawn by Harris Hart,!
? of the board. He at once got into com-'
: monicatlon with Attorney-General Pol-!
iard at Murphy's Hotel, and after a^
'lengthy conversation persuaded Mr.!
Pollard to cancel several engagements j
In Winchester and remain over to din-i
cuss the minority silo of the matter!
and he present at the meeting of the1
'board this morning.
"I am unwilling to state Just how r
?shall regnrd the tentative report," said
Governor Stuart, when the salient
points of the tentative, agreement had
been explained to him.
SAYS Si;VATr. i:\PKCTS ' I
t'l'Mi A Mi COMPliKTK IIKPI.Y
"Then," he was asked, "what do you I
understand the first paragraph of the)
Senate resolution X-v 10 to mean, Iir-1
noring thf> meeting of this afternoon?" j
"I mean," he replied, "what I said in J
ithe meeting on Wednesday: that the!
' Senate expects a full and complete re-'
i ply as to tho rvcent chanscs in the!
textbook adoptloi..*'
"f>o you consider this proposed re-[
port of the Hoard of Kducutlon a 'full
I and complete reply"" h>? was asked.
"Lntil I have the complete report of
the board before me, i would be un
j willing to make a: \ statement," he
replied.
1 coxsirycus qi kstion om:
or < (ivsmcit \itr.i: mpojtT
i That the Governor considers the ques
tion one of considerable import may he
, gathered from the f.1(;t that he asked j
i the Attorney-General to cancel lin-i
portant engagements and remain here,
j That he considers it an important ques-!
; tion, the Attorney-General showed by!
? his offer to remain, despite the fact
that he was very anxious to ^o to,
: Winchester.
It was learned last night, though the
, fact was not mentioned in the snheom-'
; niittco's report, that prior to the ri.lop- i
| tion something like 41 per cent of the
j books used were from the It. I". John-j
son Publishing Company, and that now,
j something like 10 p<-r cent of the books:
I used arc supplied by this company. I
So much, in fact. U the difference j
; that the minority believes that the old:
j books ought to have been retained for
i some time yet. The majority, however,'
j believed that tlie difference in ihoi
methods of advanced teaching and sub- !
Ject matter was worth the difference in'
cost. j
STLAIIT KAVOltKI) ItKTAIMMi
Ol.l* HOOKS. WIIKHK POSSIIU.rO
All members of tiie hoard were will- ?
ing to agree that none could remem-S
l?er just how he voted on each proposed
change. When asked about this phase!
of tho matter. Governor Stuiirt st-ited'
that ho couldn't ten, iMI, ,hat he illul j
always, where practicable, voted to re-!
tfiin the old books.
For four hours and a half vesferday
afternoon the StjHe Hoard of Kducation
(Continued on Third Page.)
RICHMOND DOLLAR DAY
February 16
On this clay "the morning of the sale"
The Times-Dispatch
Will publish announcements of surprising
Values in merchandise.
kftx z?i?i?-??r
!wll save a
bushel of money
Dollar daf,
1L
GARRISON IKES THIRD
TO QUIT WILSON CABINET
Follows Secretary of State Bryan
and Attorney-General
McReynolds.
SPKCTT.ATFO.Y OX SUCCESSOR
H??u?-e, May. Pimlell and O'Rynn
Among Those Linked Up by Gos
sip as Probable t-liolre of Presi
dent.?11 read 1 of Gradual Growth.
[Special to The Times-Dispatch.]
W'ASinXGT4 'N. February 10.?Secre
tary of War Garri.-on is the third
member of President Wilson's Cabinet
to resign. The first was Justice Me-j
Reynolds?, who resigned as Attorney-:
General to accept seat on the Su
preme Court. The .-second was Secre
tary of State WHIiim Jennings Bryan,'
who resigned in June of last year.
Specula lion to-nignt. was rife over j
the possible successor to Secretary I
Garrison. Anions* tltos* mentioned are;
Colonel I-Mward M. House, the Pre.si- I
dent's clo/seft adviser, now on a con- j
fidentiul mission to Knropean capitals. I
Representative lames Hay, of Vir-i
ginia. chairman of the Mouse Military i
Affairs Committee.
M. M. Pindell, Peoria editor, oncol
picked for ambassador to Russia.
Major-General John 1*. O'Ryan, of i
the New York militia. i
Swager Sherley. chairman of thr>|
House Fortification' Subcommittee: i
Secretary Lane, of Iho Interior De- j
partment, and Assistant Secretary j
Roosevelt, of the Navy Department,
were among the nn most, frequently j
mentioned. It was said at the White j
Hou.se, however, that the President |
had not yet given serious considers- j
lion to the t|ue.-uion.
wii.i, ma kg \ri'oi\Tiir.\T
AS SOON AS IM.S.SI|||,H
It was indicated thai Mr. Wilson will
make an appointment as soon as possi
ble. He Is said to desire, if possible, .
a man already familiar with the sen-!
eral details of tha military situation!
of the nation in order that the national'
defense plans may be carried forward!
without delay.
The resignation of Mr. Garrison and
Mr. Rreeklnrulsie. assistant Secretary
of War, leaves Major-General Hugh l<. j
Scott, chief of staff, ihe head of the!
War Department until a new secre
tary is appointed.
Mr. Garrison had accepted an invita- ;
tion to expound his views to-day on ;
national defense before the National
Chamber of I'omnieree, now in session!
here. In anticipation of this speech,
he wrote the President a letter yester
(Continued on Second Pago.)
Members r?f House Military Commit
tee Call by Invitation at White
House.
ASSlllAXCKS PLEASE WILSOX
Strong Measure. Drafted in Nonpar- !
ti^nn Spirit, Will He on Calendar!
Within Three Weeks?Continental i
Scheme Is Opposeil.
WASHINGTON', February 10.?Re
publicans ?f the House Military Com- j
mittee assured President Wilson to
day that a strong army increase bill,
drafted in a nonpartisan spirit and ac
complish ing all the main objects sought
l?y the War Department, plan, would
be on tno Ilotiso calendar within three
weeks. They told him, however, that
the committee practically was unani
mously opposed to the department's
(continental army scheme.
Headed by Representative Kahn, of
j California, ranking minority member
of the committee, the Republicans
j called a' the White House at. the I'resi
j dent'.; invitation, following: Chairman
Hay and several others of his Demo
cratic colleagues, who carried the
same message to the chief executive
yesterday.
To-day's conference was later de
scribed as a friendly exchange of
views. The only difference of opinion
was 0:1 the question of the continental
army as a substitute for the National
Guard in the tlrst line of defense. The
I'resident was informed that, while the
committee opposed the continental idea,
a scheme was in process of formula
tl >n by which the members felt certain
the National Guard could be welded
into an effective instrument of na
tional defense.
Wll.SO.V MAIiKS XO RFKOHT
TO CIIAXCi: 'I'lll-MIt V IKWS
Mr. Wilson stated his own prefer
ence for the continental plan, but
made no effort, the White House visi
tors said later, to sway them in their
opinions. The only urgency in the
President's remarks. It was stated, was
his plea for quick congressional ac
tion to put the country in a state of
adequate defense. He found his hear
ers in heai (y accord with him in both
desires.
While the President's presentation of
the situation was not disclosed, it is
known that War Department otllcials
have in view the possibility that
American troops might be needed in
some southern country to aid in re
pelling an Invader, and that the con
stitutional limitation of the use of the
National Guard to territorial United
(Continued on Fifth 1 'age.)
BRECKINRIDGE ALSO
QUITS, AS MARK OF
LOYALTYTO CHIEF
Action Follows Failure to Gain Wilson's
"Irrevocable" Support of Continental Army
Plan and Differences on Philippine Bill.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE REGARDS POSITION
AS "WHOLLY UNJUSTIFIABLE"
Acute Differences of Opinion Begin Early in Year When
Opposition to War Department Scheme Develops
in Congress?Circumstances Leading Up to Sever
ance of Relations Detailed in Correspondence Given
Out by White House?Successors Not Yet Ap
pointed, but Major-General Scott Automatically Be
comes Secretary of War, Ad Interim.
WASHINGTON', February 10.?Secretary of War Garrison
resigned from the Cabinet to-day because President Wilson
would not "irrevocably" support the continental army plan,
and becauses he opposes tlio administration's program of set
ting a definite time for Phillipine independence.
President. Wilson accepted the resignation, but has not
selected a successor. The President himself probably will take
personal charge of the administration's national defense plans
in Congress.
| Assistant Secretary Breckinridge also resigned as ;i mark
of loyalty to his chief, whose views he shares. The President
accepted his resignation. Both take effect immediately. Ma
jor-General Scott, chief of stuff of the army, automatically be
I comes Secretary of War ad interim.
It is known that one of Secretary Garrison's principal rea
i sons for his conviction that only a Federal continental army,
? instead of a reorganized National Guard, should be the main
I military dependence of the nation was his belief that some day
| the United States may be called upon to defend the Monroe
I Doctrine, and in that event he foresaw that the National Guard
! might not be available for use outside the United States before
i a declaration of war.
l'nrt Company on Their Views on Army I'lans.
| I pon that, contention, on the 0110 hand, that the continental army, or
ultimately universal service, was tlio nation's only reliance, and the posi
tion, 011 the other, that no one plan could bo enforced upon Congress, Presi
dent Wilson and his Secretary of War parted official company.
.Mr. Garrison's resignation was a complete surprise to official Wash
ington generally, lie made no personal explanation. Several hours before
the official announcement ho had boarded a train with his wife for New
| "i ork, and word had been passed at the War Department that he had gone
! for an indefinite stay.
J Tlio acute differences of opinion which led to the break began early in
[the year when opposition to the continental army plan be^an developing
j -u Congress. There had been indefinite rumors of the possibility of the
I Secretary of War leaving the Cabinet, but they never were countenanced
in official quarters. The secretary everywhere was regarded as one of the
I strong men of the administration, upon whom the President leaned in tlio
difficult situations, both domestic and international, which have marked
his administration.
Circuin.stanros Detailed in Correspondence.
The circumstances which led up to the resignation are detailed in tf.n
secretary's correspondence with the President, which was mado public to
night by tlio White Mouse. The President, the letters disclose, believed
that the training, organization and control or a military reserve should by
under immediate Federal direction, but is not "irrevocably or dogmatically
committed to any one plan." Ho wrote Mr. Garrison that ho could not
force any specific plan upon Congress, and added:
"1 must welcome a frank interchange of views, and a patient and thor
ough comparison ot all the methods proposed for obtaining the object wa
all have in view." ^
Mr. Garrison's contention that only the plans of the War Department
could be considered seemed to the President "wholly unjustifiable." Mr.
Garrison considered "reliance upon the militia for national defense as un
justifiable and imperiling of the nation's safety." in resigning, he wroto
tlio President:
"It is evident that we hopelessly disagree upon what I conceive to ha
fundamental principles."
The White House to-night gave out the letters of resignation of Secre
tary Garrison and Assistant. Secretary Hreckinridge. the letters of accept
ance by President Wilson, anc the preliminary correspondence explaining
the development of the break.
Letter of Resignation and Its Acceptance.
The letter of Mr. Garrison and the President's acceptance of his resig
nation are as follows:
"War Department.
"Washington, 13. C.. February 10. 1916.
"My Dear Mr. President:
"I am just in receipt of yours of February In, in reply to mine of Feb
ruary St. It is evident that we hopelessly disagree upon what 1 conceive
to be fundamental principles. This makes manifest the impropriety of my
longer remaining your seeming representative with respect to these matters.
"I hereby tender my resignation as Secretary of War, to take effect at
your convenience.
"Sincerely yours,
"LIXDLKY M. GARillSCfN.
"The President."
"The White House,
"Washington. February 10. 1916.
"My Dear Mr. Secretary:
"I must confess to feeling a very great surprise at your letter to-day
offering your resignation as Secretary of War. There has been no definite
action taken yet in either of the matters to which your letter of yesterday
referred. The whole matter is iinder debate, and all the influences that
work for clarity and Judgment ought to be available at this very t.inio.
"But since you have felt obliged to take this action, and since it is
evident that your feeling in the matter is very great indeed. I feel that t
would bo only Imposing a burden upon you should I urge you to retain the
Secretaryship of War while 1 atn endeavoring to find a successor. 1 ought
to relieve you at orce, and do hereby accept your resignation, because it its
so evidently your desire that I should do so.
"I cannot take this Important step, however, without expressing to you
my very warm appreciation of tho distinguished service you have rendere-'
aa Secretary of War, and 1 am sure that In expressing this appreciation^
