1 " " umwiUBWiwi
j-"1 "'-'' . mi iinwwmnnw) fijim ' iiuim mwppwi
P
FINANCIAL EDITION
fMtger
NIGHT
EXTRA
NIGHT
EXTRA
; c '
yXL. II.-NO. 129
PHILADELPHIA, FHLDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 15)1G.
CorntonT, 1010, m mi Ptnuo Lroou CoxrAitr.
PRICE ONE CENT
,HiiWipiUII. Wqpl)iUHlirftijHMg 1 -wi i iwm jwjWiww ' ""wiwjajlW "W '' nTywiwiw-""
ZlSff WfClMT T-ffiai" SSSlfiS
31
&
V
.
I
1
garrison's successor will
be named in 24 hours, 'dark
horse; a democrat, slated
I Score of Men Discussed in Washington
to Take Place of War Secretary
Who Quit in Defense Clash
With President Wilson
Executive, Washington Officials Say, Is Determined to
1 Take Personal Charge of the Legislation for
Preparedness General Scott May
Get the Portfolio
POINTS ON WHICH PRESIDENT
AND SECRETARY DIVIDED
Action due to split with Congress and President over continental
army plan and difference of views on Philippine independence.
Assistant Secretary Breckinridge follows his superior in retirement.
President Wilson's withdrawal of support from continental army
fenture of preparedness program was major point of difference.
Secretary Garrison strongly opposed to Clarke amendment to the
Philippine bill, providing for relinquishment of American control in
islands.
Correspondence with President shows cumulative steps which led to
final break.
"Hay defense program would be betrayal of trust," Garrison said in
letter to President.
Feared in political circles that Garrison's resignation, coming as the
third in the Cabinet, will weaken the Administration's influence.
Other resignations were Secretary of State Bryan, who disagreed
with President over foreign policy and particularly over Lusitania notes
to Germany, and Attorney General McRcynolds, -who resigned to become
an Associate Justice of United States Supreme Court.
WASHINGTON. Feb. 11. - I.lndley M.
Garrison, of Now Jersey, the Secretary
of Wnr, has resigned from Picsident
Wilson's Cabinet. The i catenation has
bcn accepted.
Differences between the. President and
tho Secretary over tho question of pre
paredness and the Philippine: independence
legislation were responsible fur the break,
which camo today.
At the same time that he accepted the
Garrison resignation, tho President re
ceived and accepted the resignation of
Henry S. Breckinridge, of Kentucky, As
sistant Secretary of War. Mr. Breckin
ridge gave as his reason for retiring tho
fact that he indorses absolutely tho posi
tion assumed by Mr. Garrison, and, llko
the latter, regarded tho differences us bo
lnr irreconcilable.
Announcement will bo mado In 2.1- hours
of Secretary Garrison's succcsyor. He
will bo n Iiemocr.it. This Information
came from tho White IIouso today. It
Wears a ""dark horse" probably will ho
chosen. Those close to tho Presldont de
clared nono of the men most prominently
mentioned so far would get tho vacant
portfolio. The President has decided,
lOTvevcr, that necessity, political nnd leg
islative, require prompt tilling of tho Cab
inet vacancy.
A scoro of Democratic notables wore
mentioned in gossip today regarding the
place.
Representative Tague. of Massachu
setts, today asked to appoint former Gov
1
FIVE HURT IN AUTO
SMASH NEAR MEDIA
(Mrs. Cole, Mrs. Drane and Wes
ley Covington, of This
City, Injured
Three Phllndclphlans were injured In
n auto smash-up near Media today.
Ttjey, with two others, uro in Media.
Hospital. The list Is as follows:
Mrs. Florence. Cole, 1151 South Dorranco
I street, Philadelphia.
Mrs. Kdna Drane, 2037 Vernon street,
jPhlladelphla.
, Wesloy Covington, Fltzwuter street,
'Philadelphia.
William Jones, Lansdowne.
Edward Davis, Darby.
The automobile was owned by Gcorgo
II. Storch, a Lansdowne caterer. William
, Jones was driving it and ran into a bridge
abutment at Crum Creek and the Balti
more pike Tho auto was demolished.
Only airs. Drane nnd Mr. Jones ure In
Mured seriously. Both have fractured
'Hulls; the others all have painful scalp
founds and lacerations, but not any
jbroken bones. Mrs. Drano Is In a dnn
Uerous condition. Steering gear, which
'DrOKrt tran utxtA tn. . t, .. , U.
Occident.
THE WEATHER
Somebody makes a remark about u Gar
m finish. It la not particularly worthy
J comment, but things of that sort are
t out of the system, and also It would
ee convenient. If any one tries to spring
on you, to bo able to say you'd heard
Wat before. In this world overythirig
.COmeS tO a finish nvp.nl .no llilnl? Onhl.
'E? J melt away armies appear In fact and
' fancy, and vanish, nnd President after
JTMMent, "with his pomp, abides hla des
jwed hour and goes Ills way." Yet one
"'S jou have with you always, tho su
Pfme reality, which Is neither Republl
:", "!?r Democratic, nor even Socialist.
C . l ls tne everlasting air and tho
unpolitical aun. They are blessed, be
cause they can afford to have no opinions.
;" weather la the only being in the
"ia that can dare to be Anarchist.
FORECAST
..UPMladelphia and vicinity Un
'""M.tonwht and Saturday, with
nu'K l'aht rain or 8now: not
much change in temperature; mod'
f easterly xuinds.
r details see page 17,
LOST AND pound
ad XA".9 ra,J ror tha return of diamond
BaiurJSf'iK rlas- Platinum nettlntr. lout
tntnVi&i rury 3. m or nwr the Winder-
l.iS. ' "Vrl" reward ror aumenuc in
"'lr CenlrUl " recov'ry- M 66:i'
ll hf'i. raf brooCKT'spTInlaeKriu
KJiJ Martin's sta. and Wtaablcltoa.
kuktJ i, n Holland. SOOU cbwtnut at.
i .nn' reirl una uppblra bar la. mtt la
l Lot and i,uad Ada ou Page IS
ernor Walsh. Ohio Democrats were urg
ing former Governor Harmon.
That tho next Secretary will be a man
who can work with Chairman Hay, of the
House Military Committee, was asserted
on authority today.
OTlclals at the Wnr Department Inti
mated that they would not be surprised
should General Scott, who was made
acting secretary of war for 30 dnys today,
by an executive order signed by the
President, either resign as chief of staff
or he retired from that position. They
based this belief on the following
paragraph In President Wilson's letter to
Gnnlson yesterday which precipitated the
Secretary's resignation:
"As you know, I do not at all agree
with you in favoring compulsory enlist
ment for training and I fear that the
advocacy of compulsion before the com
mittee of tho IIouso on tho part of repre
sentatives of the department of war has
greatly prejudiced tho House against the
proposal for a continental army, little
necessary connection ns there Is between
the plan nnd the opinion of the chief
of staff In favor of compulsory enlist
ment." Army officers who studied tho latter
patt of this sentence declared that they
did not believe General Scott could con
tinue on his detail ns chief of staff when
he wui declared to bo In opposition to
the opinions of the commander In chief.
General Scott himself refused to discuss
the matter in any way.
Tho order putting General Scott at the
Continued on I'ueo Tho, Column Tuu
FINDS MISSING HEIRESS
WEDDED TO CHAUFFEUR
Grace McLaughlin and George
Stevens Located in
Havana
A two months' search In Philadelphia
and other cities ended today when Miss
Grace McLaughlin, of New York, heiress
to $2.'i0,000, nnd George M. .Stevens, her
chauffeur, weru found at Havana, Cuba.
They nro married, according to an an
nouncement by tho young woman's aunt,
Mrs. Katherlno Ingles, of 1 West 120th
street. New York.
Recently Mrs. Ingles advertised for in
formation concerning tho whereabouts of
her niece. A friend of her family noti
fied her today that ho had met Mis3 Mc
laughlin in the Plaza Hotel, In Ha
van a.
"She was looking very happy," said tho
man, "and she Introduced Stevens to me
as her husband. The bride said they had
traveled by automobile through the South,
and at rCoy West hail taken n steamship
for Cuba. She said they Intended to tour
Cuba In their machine."
Miss McLaughlin Is tho daughter of the
late Patrick II. McLaughlin, deputy chief
of police of New York. When she disap
peared on December 8 she told her aunt
she was going to church. Instead sho
went to Brooklyn bank, where she drew
out her cash balanco of 1000 and obtained
about $260,000 In securities which she In
herited from the estate of her father from
a sefe deposit box. The young uomau also
had about $3000 worth of Jewels in her
possession.
The suspicions of tho young woman's
relatives were aroused when they dis
covered that Stevens, proprietor of a gar
age where Miss McLaughlin stored her
automobile, had also disappeared.
Mrs. Ingles engaged private detectives
to search for tho couple. They were
traced to Philadelphia, where It was found
that they had stopped several days at
the Bellevue-Stratford. Miss Mclaugh
lin wrote a letter to her aunt from the
hotel. It was discovered that they had
visited several Catholic clergymen In this
city In an effort to get married. The
clergymen refused to marry them, be
cause Miss McLaughlin and Stevens were
unknown to them.
2000 Jersey Central Men Strike
NEW YORK. Feb. 11. Two thousand
trackwalkers and repair men on the Jer
sey Central Railroad went on strike to
day, and their leaders said the walkout
would include all trackwalkers and re
pairmen on the West Shore, between
Weehawken, N. J., and Ravenna. N. Y
before night. The Btrlkers' demands have
not been made public.
Four Autos Burned in Explosion
An explosion of gasoline this afternoon
caused a Are which partly destroyed four
automobiles In the jarage of Samuel
Michel, at 7H Nerth iSth street. The
proprietor-s family, which occupied the
second noor. managed to escape. The
flames caused a loss ot JSOW,
BRECKINRIDGE DEFENDS HIS STAND
AGAINST THE NATIONAL GUARDSMEN
By HENRY S. BRECKINRIDGE
Who"rcl(rned ns AuMntnnt Secrelnry of Wnr hprnimc Iip would not Indorse, tho
mlllllii plan advocated by Chairman liny.
It is inadvisable to build a military policy for the nation upon tho
State militia, because to rest the defense of the nation upon -18 little
armies over which the National Government has not and cannot obtain
control, is to tamper with the country's safety.
False claims arc mado thnt the militia can be made n Federal force.
The Constitution gives the Stnto full authority over the militia. The
State authorities can, without reference to the wants or needs of tho
nation, disband the militia or keep 100, 1000 or 100,000 militiamen, ns
they desire.
The effort to confuse the public mind nnd make it believe the militia
can be made a Federal force is a preposterous effort wilfully to fool the
American people.
My condemnation of the militin as n national dependence is a con
demnation of tho system nnd not of the personnel.
Nearly every disaster of the Revolution and tho War of 1812 was
largely due to the dependence upon the militin system. George Wash
ington's mnin dependence was tho continental army, absolutely controlled
by tho Federal Government.
If there is any one sphere of governmental activity where the nation
should stand united, it is in the preparation for, and the conduct of, the
defense of the nntinn, which may involve the very life of the nation.
The issue is fundamental nnd uncompromisable.
POLITICAL EFFECT OF GARRISON'S
QUITTING MORE IMPORTANT THAN
BRYAN'S PASSING, OFFICIALS SAY
Secretary of War Was Re
garded as the Strongest
Member of the Wilson
Cabinet
WASHINGTON, r-Vh. 11. -Washington
awoke this morning to thn serious slg
nlllcance of the resignation of Secretary
Garrison, looked upon nn the ntiongcst
member of the Wilson Cabinet.
That It will be far moic Impoitnnt In
Us political effects than the llryan retiir
ment was the general Impression, and
from tho legislative standpoint It Is ic
garded as extremely eilnus, Indicating,
ns It does, a shaip division of counsel In
the Democratic party and endangering
1 tho President's whole pioiram of national
preparedness.
Mr. IJryan's resignation was a mcro
incident. Garrison's retirement Is the
first really embarrassing crisis which tho
Wilson Administration has faced.
Scores of letters and telegrams leached
the White House today In regard to the
situation. For the most part they were
from Democrats prominent In the party,
who assured tho President that they did
not believe the resignations would scri-
ousiy uainper uis program
COUNTRY TAKES SERIOUS
VIEW OF SITUATION
Lenders of thought, politicians and
statesmen, as well ns the public press,
view tho situation created by Secrotan
Garrison's resignation as serious. Among
the expressions today were tne following.
WASHINGTON, Feb, II. "Secretary of
Wnr Garrison's resignation will havn no
effect on Congress."
This was tho curt declaration today of
Representative James Hay, of Virginia,
chairman of the House Military Affairs
Committee, tho storm centre of the con
troversy which caused Garrison's sum
mary withdrawal from tho Wilson
Cabinet.
Hay would not dlscu personal ques
tions and disputes affecting himself nnd
Garrison. Ho would not comment on
reports of old feuds nnd differences In
nrmv poucy Willi me lurim-r ottinui..
... '. - --, . .... (In.... f I, I. ...... l..H.t
JJUC lie ueciurra iiiu iiuubu ..mihui .""f
mittee would go nhead with Its own pro
gram of army reorganlatlon.
When Hay was asked to commrnt on
Garrison's statement In his letters to
President Wilson that the federalization
of tho mllltla and dlscnrd of the con
tinental scheme vvns "a sham, a mockery"
for national defense. Hay retorted:
"General Wood, former chief of staff,
said the continental army was a 'sham
and stopgap.' "
Hay plainly Intimated that the con
tinental nrmy schemo Is definitely nnd
flnnlly on tho shelf.
"We will conclude our hearings nn tho
nrmy nnd mllltln reorganization bill to
day," said Hay. "Wo bono to have the
hill out within 10 days or two weeks.
Secretary Garrison's resignation will not
affect the judgment of the committee."
That ho anil Garrison had not disagreed.
Hay said, over tho question of long or
short-term enlistments In the nrmy.
"Tho Secretary did not advocato short-
Continued on Page Two, Column Thrco
MISS CUYLER STRUCK
BY AUTOMOBILE
Seriously Injured at Broad and
Chestnut Streets Is 82
Years Old
Miss Cornelia E. Cuyler. 2212 De Lancey
street, a prominent society woman, and
nn aunt of T. De Witt Cuyler. was struck
and seriously Injured by an automobllo
owned by George Wharton Pepper, prom
inent lawyer and society man, at Hroad
and Chestnut streets this afternoon. Miss
Cuyler Is 82 years old, and her condition
from her Injuries and shock Is consid
ered berlous. In view of her advanced age.
The accident was seen by hundreds of
persons who were walking on Chestnut
street at the time Miss Cuyler was cross
ing Chestnut street and stumbled as the
Pepper automobile came along. She fell
In front of tho wheels before the chauf
feur. Frank Mullen, 2117 Sears stieet,
could bring the car to a stop. A daughter
of George Wharton Pepper. Miss Adeline
Pepper, was In the automobile at the time
and screamed when she suw the aged
woman fall In front of her machine.
Reserve Policeman llartle, who was
stationed at the corner, ran to tho side
of the woman and picked her up. She
asked the policeman to take her home
and was placed In the automobile, with
Miss Pepper, and taken to her home.
Miss Cuyler told the policeman that the
chauffeur (Mullen) was not to blame and
declared she did not want him arrested
Dr, C. II. AUIs. of 1601 Spruce street,
who visited Miss Cuyler at her home,
found her so weak that he deferred an
exhaustive examination until she had
come time to recover from the shock. lie
had no opportunity, therefore, he said,
to discover whether any bones wero
broken or not, but he was "considerably
apprehensive,"
Notcd Men Mentioned
to Succeed Garrison
Maj. Gen. Hugh L. Scott.
Secretary of Agriculture
Houston.
Secretary of the Interior Lane.
Senator George E. Chamber
lain, of Oregon.
Joseph Tumulty, secretary to the
President.
Representative Sherley, of the
5th Kentucky District.
Franklin D. Roosevelt, Assistant
Secretary of the Navy.
A. Mitchell Palmerof Pennsyl
vania. Fred Lehman, of Missouri.
Maj. Gen. George W. Gocthals.
Henry N. Pindell, editor, of
Peoria, 111.
Former Governor Judson Har
mon, of Ohio.
Adjutant Genernl Cole, of Mass
achusetts. AUSTRIANS HURL
ATTACKS TO STOP
FOE 0NJMESTER
Russians Cross River in
Drive to Cut Path
Through Bukowina
MAY DECIDE RUMANIA
LONDON. Feb. 11
Strong attempts are being mado by
ho AuMrn-Hungarinn forces on the south
ern Galician front to force tho Ilusslau.s
bac.k to tho eastern bank of the Dniester
Itiv'er. at Pscieczko, but official advices
from Petrogrnd state that all attacks have
been repulsed.
The drio of tho Russians against tho
strongly fortified Austro-Hungarlan posi
tion at Cscleszko Is part of tho general
campaign in Miuthcru Gallcla to cut a
path through Ilukowlna and occupy Czcr
nowitz. Working under tho direction of Ger
man engineers tho Austro-Hungarlan
troops had strongly fortllled UM-leczko
and It was regarded as Impregnable, but
It was dually taken through slcgo tactics
which liavo lasted for two mouths.
I'sclcczkn llcson tho eastern bank of
the Dniester. 3j miles north of Czernowltz,
STiiillen northeast of Zolomea and 13 miles
fiom tho flessarablan frontier. It Is a
naturul stionghold, lying on tho cicst of
n high rldgc. with .i i oiling stretch of
country to the eastward.
Horodcnkn now lies In the patli ot the
Itussians, If they contemplato n sweep
south from the Dniester toward tho Iluko
winan capital. However, the Austrian
Continued on fund Net ru, Column 1'Ivp
ORPHANS COURT JUDGE
FILES BANKRUPT PLEA
James C. Work, of Fayette
County, Gives Debts $721,108,
Assets 859,313
PITTSnunaH. Feb. U. Judge James
Clark Work, of the Orphans' Court, of
Fayette County, today tiled n voluntary
petition In bankruptcy In the United
States District Court, giving his liabili
ties as t721.168.64 and his assets tS,31S.4I.
The petition was tiled by Attorneys John
son and Rush, of Unlontown.
In his schedule of liabilities he gives
taxes at ?2531; secured claims of t2SC,3II.18,
and unsecured claims of tl0.235.46; notes
and bills which ought to be paid by other
patties thereto, t30,000. Among the assets
are real estate, taK.Oi!). bills, promissory
notes and fcecurltles, t2l3,-,'l 13; household
goods, t330; books and pictures, t650;
horses and other animals, tlOOO; carriage,
$33; other personal property, $202: stocks
and negotiable bonds, t33,S0O; life tnsur
ance, $50,000; deposits In banks and else
where, t753.28.
The Judge says he has no cash on hand
and does not claim any exemption. In
cluded in the assets are several liens
against properties In which he has undi
vided Interests. Among his liabilities are
several notes to banks and individuals.
MILITARY COMMITTEE BACKS
WILSON AGAINST GAlUtlSON
Appreciate Statement They Were
Workinp; for "Best Results'"
WASHINGTON'. Feb. U.-The House
Military Affairs Committee tills afternoon
instructed Chairman Hay to convey to
the President the committee's appredaT
tlon for his broad-minded falrneM in deal
ing with the Garrison resignation.
The committee desired specifically to ex
press its appreciation for the President's
statement that he felt ' the commltteo
was actuated by desire to bring about the
best results possible.'
U. S. MAY WARN
CITIZENS FROM
ARMED LINERS
Will Probably Accept Ger
many's Ruling Regarding
Guns on Merchant Ships
BERLIN ISSUES ORDER
Allies Almost Certain to Reject
Teuton Stand on Subma
rine Warfare
VIENNA, Feb. 11. The Austro
Hungarian Admiralty announced to
day that from February 20 armed
enemy merchantmen will be treated as
warships and are liable to attack with
out warning. The Admiralty state
ment follows the form of that issued
in Ilcrlin.
WASHINGTON, Toll. II.
Ambassador Gerard will probably bo
handed today Germany's formal an
nouncement of her Intention to attack
armed merchantmen without warning
after March 1, It was said at tho Gciman
nmbnss. A similar communication will
also be addressed at the same time to the
State Department through Ambassador
Pentield nt Vienna rrom the Austrian
Foreign Ofllco.
A feeling of hopefulness that tho State
Department will shortly make an an
nouncement disclaiming responsibility for
American citizens traveling on armed
merchantmen prevails among the Central
Power diplomats. This feeling. It Is un
derstood. Is based upon Information from
the State Department.
Although no reply to this Government's
proposal In the matter has been received
from the Allies, it is believed by Ilrltlsh
olIielalH here that Ambassador Sprlng
Illco will shortly receive Institutions to
take the matter up Informally with Sec
retary Lansing In nn effort to iracli nil
agreement. There was no Indication In
Allied circles that the announcement of
the Central Powcru had altered their ex
treme, disinclination to agree to the dis
armament of merchantmen.
That this Government, believing tho
Teutonic nations to be ulthln their rights
In this respect, shortly will Issue a warn
ing to nil Its nntionals not to travel on
belligerent ships that carry guns of any
kind seemed certain.
This attitude must be taken, many offi
cials derlarcd today, if America's atti
tude Is to continue to be logically followed
out.
The American attitude regarding arming
of merchantmen, It beenme known for
the llrst time today, was clearly set forth
In the informal suggestion recently mado
to the Kntento Allies concerning the "nb
soncn of conditions now, which in earlier
times was the excuse for arming of
merchantmen." These reasons weru
presenco of privateers nnd pirates on the
high seas.
Nono of the Powers addressed, Secre
tary Lansing said today, hnve replied to
theso suiBgcstlons. He said he assumed
their delay was, caused by the obvious
necessity of Joint deliberation of the ques
tion. Tho Kngllsh, however, unotllclally
have expressed themselves Inalterubly
opposed to any suggestion that would put
their merchantmen at tho mercy of the
submarines. In Informal statements high
officials ut the British Kmbassy have
indicated their belief that Kngland and
her allies never would consent to this.
Despite this known opposition it was
admitted at the Stnte Department today
that one of tho effects of the Teuton
decree will be announcement that this
Government will abandon Its temporary
rulings regarding nrmed merchantmen,
even In tho event It Is known a few
Germnn commerce raiders aro at large
on tho high seas.
A pronouncement fiom the Stnte De
partment accepting tho Germnn and Aus
trlan classification of armed ships us war
vessels, would mean that such liners
could not enter American ports moro
than once every six months, nnd that
they would bo ordered to leave within 21
hours.
Officials today admitted that under such
conditions American rioods, excepting
those urgently needed by the Kntente
Continued on I'UKe Srvon, Column Ono
ST. CYR SAYS "S-H-H"
AS HE GOES MOTORING
Puts Finger to His Lips When
Waiting Reporters Ask, "Are
You 'Jack' Thompson?"
Jean Harald Kdward St. Cyr. the much
dlscusscd husband of the widow of "Si
lent" Smith, whose Identity some persons
have tangled with that of "Jack" Thomp
son, former cowboy, haberdashery clerk
nnd chorus man. took a 13-minute spin
In his $10,000 nutomnbllo today.
Thereby Philadelphia partially batiated
Its curiosity with n good look at him, the
central figure In an alleged American ro
mancethe rise fiom orjscurit to opu
lence through marriage.
A crowd of nearly 100 persons office
boys, messengers, photographers, business
men, passing the llellcvue-Stratford,
strained for a glimpse of him ns he darted
Into his waiting car, the gift his bride
gave him on their wedding.
A squad of reporters tired a volley of
questions at him as. guarded by two pri
vate detectives, ho made his way swiftly
from his apartments on the fourth floor
to the main entrance of the hotel.
"Are you Jack Thompson? Aro you
going to sue?" he was asked.
Flicking the ash from his cigarette, St.
Cyr placed ono slim forefinger to his lips
and shook his head, as If to conjure
silence. Then he stepped through tho
door of the machine, opened by a liveried
footman, and the touring car rolled out
Into Hroad street. After 15 minutes it re
turned, and St. Cyr dashed back Into the
hotel.
On his return he learned that the will
,pf Mrs. Caroline P. St. Cyr, of lonkeri,
H. v., will not bo reopened for probate,
according to a decision handed down to
day by Surrogate Sawyer, of Westches
ter, N. Y. John t'. Orennan, counsel for
Henry A. lUdtleld. grandson, asked that
the will bo opened and an investigation
made of the codicil, which cut the grand
eon's share of the estate from $100,000 to
JoO.000. St Cyr received the residue of
the estate, according to the will.
PICK
WANTS SEAMAN'S BILL RULING REVERSED
WASHINGTON, Feb. 11. Andrew Futseth, president of the Sea
nian.s Union and one of the chief Instigators of the La Follctte sca
inan,s bill, today demanded thnt Attorney Genernl Gregory reverse
liis ruling that seamen must deposit sufficient funds to cover court
costs bcfoic filing libel piocectlings to obtain their wnges.
105.000 SERBS STILL UNDER ARMS
ATHENS, Feb. 11. There nre now 105,000 Serbians under arms,
vtady to fight the Gciman Allies, it wns announced today by the
Serbian legation. These nre divided ns follows: 85,000 at Corfu,
10,000 at BlzcrkZ) 5000 at Salonica and 5000 at Albania.
ROTAN NAMES GORDON AND McCULLOUGH
District Attorney Samuel P. rtotnn this afternoon appointed as Assistant
District Attorneys James Gay Gordon, Jr., and Michael V, McCullougli. They
will take the places of Joseph P. Rogers, elected to tho bench, and John
Monaghan, appointed Public Service Commissioner. Mr. Gordon was Assist
ant City Solicitor until recently, when City Solicitor Connolly reorganized tho
stun: for the "good of the OrRnnlzation."
"WOLF OF WALL STREET" MUST GO TO JAIL
NEW YOHK. Feb. 11. The United StntcB Court of Appeals this afternoon
denied the motion of David Lnmnr, "wolf of Wall street," for reinstatement of
his appeal from tho conviction of Impersonating' a Federnl ofllccr. Lamar was
sentenced to two years' Imprisonment. Tho Supremo Court recently denied
Lnmnr's appeal, and with today'H decision Lamnr has lost the final light to
escape Imprisonment.
ENTIRE NAVAL MILITIA TO MOBILIZE HERE
1 WASHINGTON. Feb. 11. Xaval mllltla men from tho Grcnt Lakes, as
! well ns from all ports along the Atlantic and Gulf coasts, will rendczous at
I'hiliKli-lphi.t for n Halt-water cruise next summer. It wns announced at tho
Navy Department. A fleet of eight battleships will bo mobilized there, all
mnuneil by civilian pallors who nre In the naval militin. Tho plan to hring
i the fresh-water sailors to the coast for praotlco on tho ships on which they
would serve in case ot war was first disclosed when Captain Frederic Baa-
I sett, Jr.. commanding the United States Naval Mllltla, requested the IIouso
Naval Affairs Committee to appropriate $77,000 for transporting tho Great
j Lakes organizations to the coast. There is little doubt tho appropriation will
I ho recommended to the House.
CZAR OFF
PETHOGKAD. Feb. 11. Czar Nicholas left Petrograd for the front today.
Ho was accompanied by members of his personal stnff.
THREE LOST ON MINED STEAMSHIP
AMSTERDAM, Feb. 11. The Norwegian steamship Vaarll, 1312 tons, hit
a mine in the North Sea off Terschclling on Wednesday and sank. Thirteen
members ot the crew wore rescued after being 24 hours In an open boat and
were landed today. Three men, Including thu captain of tho Vnarll, -wore
drownd.
FREE SUGAR CLAUSE TO BE REPEALED
WASHINGTON, Fob. 11. Tho repeal of the free sugar clauso of tho
Underwood tariff law was decided upon today by Democratic members of tho
House Ways and Means Committee. After a meeting of the Democrata
Chairman Kitchln announced that the repeal hill would ho favorably reported
by the commltteo within a week nnd would bo laid before a Dcmocrutlc Housa
caucus as soon as possible.
TRACES OF RACE ANTEDATING AZTECS
NEW YORK, Feb. 11. Proofs of tho existence of a rnco that lived In
South America 1200 years ago before tho Aztecs havo been discovered In
Peru by G. A. Marklll, of the Yalo nnd National Geographical Society, who
arrived here today on the liner Snnta Mitrta.
EARTH SHOCK RECORDED AT BUFFALO, N. Y.
HUFFALO, N. Y Feb. 10. An earth shock was recorded on the seismograph
at Cunlslus College this morning. It is estimated that tho quako occurred
homewhepj In the I'nlted Stnte!;, its direction being In the southwest. The
shock wns of ten seconds duration.
NEUTRAL NATIONS FACE BREAD FAMINE
WASHINGTON, Feb. 11. Several neutral nations, chiefly the Scandi
navian countries, are facing a bread crisis, duo to Grcnt Britain's rigorous
enforcement of the blockade agnintit Germany. American Consul Schulz
cabled the State Department from Berne today that unless wheat supplies
nro permitted to como through in Inrgcr quantities the Swiss nation will face
a bread famine. Tho supplies now on hand aro being rapidly reduced, It la
stated, and the price is mounting higher. The quality of flour from which the
bread Is made Is of tho poorest quality. Department reports from Scandi
navian countries contain similar Information.
DANIELS APPROVES DISMISSAL OF MIDDIES
"WASHINGTON, Feb. 11. Secretary Daniels today approved tho report of
tho Academic Hoard of the Naval Academy, which ordered dismissal of 81
cadets for falltiro to mako grades of 62V4 per cent. In examinations.
VATICAN FORCED TO EXERCISE ECONOMY
ROMK, Fob. U. Decreased receipts, owing to tho war, have forced
Vatican officials to practice economy. Cardinal Gasparri, tho Papal Secretary
of State, today issued an order to all brunches of the Holy See to cut down
expenses, A commission composed of Cardinal Gasparri, two other Cardinals,
the Treasurer of tho Holy .See, Its chief accountant and a financier of Home
will prepare for Pope Benedict XV a full report on the proposed economies.
BELGIANS DENY RECEIVING PEACE OVERTURES
.LONDON, Feb. 11. Reports that Germany has made peace overtures to
the Belgian Government were olllclally denied today by tho Legation. The
following statement was Issued by the British Government Press Bureau:
"Tho Belgian Legation issued a statement that rumors which havo been
circulated to tho effect that peace proposals have recently been made by
Germany to the Belgian Government are devoid of foundation."
COAST GUARDS RESCUE CREW FROM BURNING SHIP
SANDY HOOK, N. J.. Feb. 11. Captain John Cressy, of the four-masted
schooner John Bossert, and his crew of seven men were rescued by coast
guards off Atlantic Highlands early today from their ship, which was on fire.
Three of the sailors were so badly burned they had to be taken to the hospital
for treatment. The seas were running so high that the coast guards could not
use their regular lifeboats, and the rescue was made with a motorboat of
high power. '
BRITISH SHIP, MINE VICTIM, BEACHED
LONDON, Feb. 11. The British steamship Elswlck Manor, 3913 tons, waa
beached today In a sinking condition. The vessel is believed to have struck
mine. All members of the crew were saved, The steamer was built In 1901,
300 KILLED IN EXPLOSION AT SKODA PLANT
PARIS. Feb. 11. A dispatch from Bucharest to the Balkan Agency, which
was delayed for flva days, states that the damage to the Skoda armament factory
In Bohemia was more serious than at first announced. Rumanian official circles,
the dispatch says, have received confirmation from Vienna, of the destruction
of all the cannon which were in course of manufacture, as well as all the plant
apd drawings In the draughting offices. The dead number nearly 300. and sev
eral hundred were Injured by the explosion which caused the disaster and which
Is said to have been the work of criminals who employed mtlinite for the purpose.
NEWS
FOR FRONT
iBiitoMJHaMi "Mxiii
