i
MARKETS
NEW YORK ClTV
week ending Feb. 9
25.87.
WEATHER
Ariiona Fj;r
MEMBER A88UCIATEO PRESS
VOL: IS, NO. 221.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, FRIDAY MOANING, FEBRUARY 11, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
Mil
LINDLEY Mill QUITS POST
DIFFERENCES ARISE OVER'PARTY LINES
CONTINENTAL ARMY PLAN
AND IRE PHILIPPINES
One of the Very Strongest Men in the Chief Executive's Cab
inet Tenders His Resignation, Which is Accepted. Assist
ant Secretary Breckenridge Follows Suit of His Chief. Ru
mors Which Have Been Afloat Are Confirmed.
The President Would Not Irrevocably Support His Aide's
: Plan, as Against All Others In Congress. General Scott
Becomes Head of Department, ad Interim. Successor Has
Not Been Named. Garrison Refuses Interviewers.
WASHINGTON, Feb. 10. It was officially announced at the White
House at 8 this evening that Garrison's resignation had been accepted by
the President. The resignation of Henry Brackenridge, assistant secret
ory of war, was also announced.
WASHINGTON, Feb. 10. Garrison resigned because the President
would not irrevocably support the Continental army plan and also be
cause he opposed the administration's program of setting a time for Phil
ippine independence. The President accepted the resignation. His succes
sor has not been selected. The President will probably take charge of the
administration's national defense plans in Congress. Assistant Secretary
Beckinridge resigned as a mark of loyalty to his chief. The resignation
was also accepted. Major General Scott automatically becomes secretary
of war, ad interim.
It is known that one of Garrison's
reasons for his conviction that only
a federal continental army, instead of
a reorganized militia would be the
main military dependence of the na
tion was the belief United States
might be called to defend the Monroe
Doctrine. In that event he foresaw
that the militia might not be available
to use outside of the United States
before the declaration of war.
Correspondence between Garrison
and the President discloses the Presi
dent believes the training of an organ-
ization to control the military re- (
serve should be under immediate fed-;
eral direction, but the President Is
not "irrevocably or dogmatically com
mitted to any one plan."
The President wrote Garrison he
could not force any specific plan on
Congress. Garrison's contentions
that only the plans of the War De
partment could be considered seemed
to the President "wholly unjustifiable."
The resignation stated: "It is evident
we disagree hopelessly upon what I
consider fundamental principles."
Garrison characterized the granting
of a conditional indepednence to the
Philippines within four years as an
' "abandonment of the duty of the na
tion and a breach of trust for the Phil
ippines." The Presidetn replied that in his
judgment, the Clarke Philippine
amendment was "unwise at this time."
He added
"It is clearly most inad-,
visable for me to take the position
that I must dissent from action should
both houses concur in the bill, em
bodying the amendment."
The President said he must with
hold judgment until final action was
before him in definite form. Upon
the contention, on one hand, that the maintain a military expedition against
Continental army or ultimately uni- "Canada from within the borders of the
versal service was the nation's, only United States. Associated with them
reliance, and the position, on the in the indictments are Charles Crow
other, that not one plan could be en- ey a detective employed by the con
forced upon Congress, the President suiate. Mrs. Margaret Cornell, Crow
and Garrison parted official company. ' ,ey.g aKPnt and Johannes von Kool
Garrison's resignation was a com- DerBen. an alleged German agent re
plete surprise in official quarters. ported tQ be ne,d in a Canadian prison.
Prior to the official announcement Smiln a witnesg for tne govern.
Garrison boarded a train with his t , named as ac)inK with the
w,fe for New York for an indefinite' conspirator8 , their plans.
'""IT' The other indictments against all of
The acute difference, which led to ,he aboye SmUh were' voted
the break began early in the year ch , conPDiracy t0
when opposition to the Continental ... -.1 A ,
.interfere with and destroy commerce
army plan developed in Congress. . . . . ,
. . , . . . under tie Sherman anti-trust act.
j rn'rr nuttr ueeu iiuieuuiie rumors or (
the possibility of his resignation. It!
quarters. Garrison was everywhere1
to nfi rH ti on nno n f tho clrnnv nion nf
nt, AilminlofMtlAn Ant innn ... nn,
IT-ii n'liuiiiiniiniii'ii auu u iuu " iiuiii
ttin T'roetHont lonnoft In jtiffinW alttia.
tions. either domestic or international :
which marked the Administration.
REFUSES TO TALK.
NEW YORK. York. Feb. 10. Lind
ley Garrison refused abso utely to . . . ,, . . .
. , ' a base such alleged act and making
discuss his resignation as secretarv of , , ...
... 1 ,. ... . .", .false manifests.
Wai upon his arrival from Washing
ton at 9 o'clock tonieht. He declared
all information regarding his retire-j
ment must come from Washington.
Garrison declined to comment on
Beckenridge's retirement. He said :
He had troubles enough of his own.",ta8pn correspondent says tne uerraan
(Emperor has bestowed the highest
BRIAND VISITS ROME. (German military decoration on the
ROME. Feb. 10. Ariistide Briand.j commander of the Zeppelin raiding
French premier, arrived here and , squadron which recently attacked
was iven a rousing welcome. The English towns. A dispatch added that
whole city was decorated in honor of Iron Crosses were distributed among
the premier's arrival. .the Zeppelin crews.
TRUE BILLS .IRE
RETURNED III
GOAST GIT?
Sixty-one Indictments are For-
n n . j l r j i
mauy Returned Dy reaerai
Grand Jury of San Francis
co. Many in Net :-
SAN FRANCISCO, Feb, 10. Sixty
one indictments against German con
sular officers, alleged agents, shipping
men and crews, were returned by the
United States grand jury in the alleg
ed bomb plots and shipping plot cases
Franz Bopp, consul general for Ger
many, Baron E. H. von Schack, vice
consul. Baron George Wilhelm . yon
Brincken and thirty other individuals
and firms are accused.
Bopp. his two aides and four others
are alleged, in the indictments, to have
conspired to blow up all the railroads
in Canada, engaged in transporting
munitions, at certain tunnels, and to
have conspired to sink ships with their
crews bearing munitions for the allies
while within Canadian territorial wat
ers. Bopp, von Schack and von Brincken
were indicted on the general charge of
conspiracy to set on foot, provide and
These indictments, .it Is reported,
are not ready because the clerical
force was unable to transcribe them.
They will probably be presented Mon-
day.
Twenty-six other indictments
' flpfiinnt tnriii'Muala flnff firms uprp rp-
,urnpd in ,ne allePd hiPPin . P,ots
charging consniracv to violate the neu
'trality of the United States in various
'manners by furnishing supplies to Ger-
! man varahins mflVin? Kan Pinnrinfn
KAISER HONORS AERONAUT
LONDON, Feb. 10. Reuter's Copen-
YIELD 10
CRISIS
j Leaders of Both Factions In
j form Wilson they Are With
i Him; United Spirit, Al
j though Much Discussion.
! PRESIDENT URGES
I PROMPT PREPARATION
Wilson Explains Reasons for
Early Increase of Army;
Munition Furnishing Pow
e rof Country.
WASHINGTON. Feb. 10. Republi
cans of the House Military Committee.
assured the President that a strong
army increase bill would be drafted in
a non-partisan spirit accomplishing all
the main objects sought by the War
Department and would be on the pub
lic calendar within three weeks. They
told him the committee was opposed
to the Department's continental army
scheme. The conference was friendly
the only difference of opinion, was the
continental army plan proposed by
Garrison as a substitution for tie Na
tional Guard in the first lino of de
fense. The committee informed the Pisi
dent the scheme was in procesf of for
mulation by which the menibtrs felt
certain the national guard cojld be
welded into an effective instrument of
national defense and brought up to
the strength believed necessary by mil
itary experts. The President stated
his preference for the continental
plan. He made no effort to sway the
opinions of his callers, beyond stating
his own belief.
The only urgeney; in the President's
plea was for quick Congressional act
ion to put the country in a state of ad-.
equate defense, based on a sound mili
tary policy and his desire thaf party
politics should not cloud what he con
sidered a vital national issue. He
found his hearers in hearty accord
with both desires. It is understood
the President outlined underlying mil
itary reasons on which the War De
partment officials based their request
for 400,000 men in addition to the reg
ular army and always under complete
federal control.
Both Democratic and Republican
members of the committee take the
position that the continentals would
not be available for immediate use out
side the country under training it will
be possible to give them in peace
timee. Secretary Daniels, speaking at
the convention of the United States
Chamber of Commerce, said: "Within
a few weeks a civilian advisory board
of the navy will be able to tell what
every munition factory can make, and
the output, if the nation should hayo
a sudden call for arms." As a direct
step toward preparedness Captain Bas-
sett disclosed that the Navy Depart
ment is arranging for tne first mobili
zation of the preseoj; naval reserve
ever attempted.-
SCHOONER1 AFIRE
NEW YORK. Feb. 10. A four mast
ed schooner, apparently heavy laden.
is afire off Sandy Hook. Apparently
the forecastle and galley house are
afire. Coast guards have gone to her
assistance.
YAQUIS CAPTURED I
DOUGLAS. Feb. 10. Forces of Col.
Aguirre captured a large number of the claims which are now valued a
Yaquis and dispersed the remainder over a million dollars and are some of
of a band of several hundred who Rev-, the best mines in the Turquoise dis
eral days ago raided San Fernando, jt riot.
Sonora. There is no doubt but what the at-
Carranza troops recovered many , tornevs for the defendant will give the
horses, much equipment and a large ' tisunl notice for a new trial and if that
quantity of loot taken by the Indians. Is denied will eive notic of apneal
The troops pursued the band for two end take the matter to the Supreme
weeks. Many Indians escaped and Court.
fled toward the Arizona border, it is j The Interests or the plaintiff were
said. Consul Ilevier stated he had ! looked after hv Allornev Fred Sutter
information that former Villa Cover-j of Bisbee and Eugene S. Ives of Tuc
nor Mavtorena with many supporters son. while the defendant was repre-
had been inciting the Indians to
main In the field against the govern- jof Bisbee; Ben Goodrich and Joe Scott
ment forces. of Ios Angeles.
The conclusions of law found in the
LEVEE BREAKS ANEW. case and signed by Judge Lockwood
LITTLE ROCK, Feb. 10 A pew will give the reader a brief outline of
break in the Arkansas River levee ( the rase in a concise manner and are
south of Yancopin relieved the situa-' given below:
tlon at Arkansas City, where a desper Conclusions of Law.
ate fight Is being waged to hold the" T'lat on or about the month of De
Mississippi levees. (Continued on Page Two.
EXPERTS SEE
4- iWf-rwr '. -
vtm
7) ftr",-
I it,
.Thomas Brothers military tractor aeroplane. Bottom, left to right: Henry A. "Wise Wood, A. Santos-Dumont
and John Hays Hammond, Jr.
I Experts in aeronautics declare that the United States soon will lead the world again as the ruler of the
air. They point to tha new Thomas Brothers' military tractor aeroplane, built for the United States govern
ment, as evidence of thsr claims. Among those who say, America soon will lead the world in flying- are Henry
A. Wise Wood, president of the American Society of Aeronautic Engineers; Alberto Santos-Dumont of Brazil,
the leading aeronaut of South America, and John Hays Hammond, Jr.
ulBSOtl AGAIi
WINS HIE i
nnfJTCCT !;
uumLUi
Undivided One-third Interest
and Accounting Granted ;
Plaintiff in Certain Mining'
Claims of Turquoise District j
TOMBFTONK. Feb. 10. (Special);
According to the judgement filed yes-j
terday in the Superior Court in, thV.
case of John Gleason vs Mary Costel-1
lo as administrator of the estate of
Martin Costello, deceased, the plaintiff
again recovers an undivided one-third
interest in and to the mining claims j
in dispute in the Turquoise mining
district about twenty in number and
for an accounting.
The judgement is substantially the
same as the verdict that was rendered
in the case by the jury' when it was
tried several years ago. The present
case was tried before Judge Lockwood
in November, 1914. without a jury and
has been pending ever since. After
the hearing, briefs were filed and au
thorities submitted and the transcript
made so that the court did not get a
chance to review the case for somv
time after it was finally submitted.
The judgement as rendered gives
the plaintiff Hie one-third Interest
in
i;
re-!sented by Messrs. Ellin wood and Ross
150'
UNITED STATES NEXT RULER OF THE AIR
ga-Xflttimr.-
r vV 'Iff . . v
y f f
NAVAJOS IN WAR DANCE.
FLAGSTAFF, Feb. 10. The
Navajo Indians were dancing a
war dance last Monday, threat
ening to attack the white set
tlers in northeastern Arizona in
retaliation for the slaying of an
Indian by a policeman, accord
ing to Frank McNeill and It. C.
Jones, cowboys, who arrived
from Utah. Up to that time,
however, the Indians, had com
mitted no act of violence. Cliee
Dodge, a well known Navajo In
terpreter refused to accompany
the officers for the peace parley,
it is reported from Fort Defi
ance, near where he lives.
PREPAREDNESS
United States Chamber of
Commerce, in Convention,
Endorses National Defense
Program of Wilson.
WASHINGTON, Feb 10 The Cham-
ber of Commerce of the United Statesp,,,,!
closed today its annual convention! Northwest of Tarno'pol the Russians
with the adoption or resolutions rail-'succeeded in penetrating the Austrian
ing upon the railroads and their em-' trenches but were eiected. The Rus
ployes to adjust the wage controversy sians were driven from the advanced
by arbitration and
ratification of
the program for national
which proposes universal military
training, an Increased navy, the crea
tion or a council ior national defense
to mobilize, when needed, all the na
tion's forces, fighting, industrial, com-
mercial and scientific. The President ,
addressed the Chamber at the annual .
banquet tonieht. j
All or the afternoon session was de-
voted to a discussion of national pre-
paredness. Daniels made an address)
defending the navy program which he
said was sure to be adopted, advocat-.in
ing the upbuilding of the American
merchant marine
Charley Nagel. rormer Secretary of
Commerce and I
"army and navy
bor. declared the
wag only tne point
tif the arrow " and that national m-e-
naredness consisted of the mobiliza-
tion of all the country's resources,
5 SECRETARY
OIS REGION
EES SEVERE
French and Germans Continue
Stiff Battle. Some Minor;
Success to Russians. Tarna-1
pol is Objective. j
LONDON. Feb. 10 There is no
diminution of the severe fighting be
tween French and Germans In the Aa
tois region, Berlin claims the capture
of a large section of French trenches
pw.'jwest of Vimy and recapture of!
the crater previously lost near Neu
ville. Paris asserts that in the-district a-
round La Folie the Germans were
1
forced out of communicating trenches
they occupied, also that two strong at-
tacks -of the Germans against the
French between Neuvllle and La Folie
were repulsed, the Germans being able
to hold only one mine crater. Berlin
admits the French south of the Somme
river entered a section of German first J
line trenches. There have been bom
bardments on the remainder, of the
position to their main position on the
Volhynia resulted In the Russians" de-i
feat.
Rome reports the Italians victorious
in small inrantry engagements on the
Austro-Italian tronls. Premier Skou-
loudis or Greece informed the Greek
Parliament that his polic y to avoid
trouble for Greece has the approval
of the majority of the people. It Will
be continued notwithstanding pressure
Added forces of the government will
be ke(pt intact and used exclusively
thu Interests of Greece.
Garrison
who was to have spoken
1 .
cancelled his engagement following.
nm resignation irom mr vaumei. m-i
annual election or officers ror the
Chamber' board of direc tors will be
held tomorrow.
FIGHTING
SAYS EDISON
111PI1 ID
fill FOR
DISASTER
Lieut. Niemetz, Counsel for
Commander Cook of Sub
marine E-2, Holds Edison
Battery Co. Responsible
OPPOSING COUNSEL
ARGUES OTHERWISE
Technical Testimony Review
ed; Commander and Crew
of 111 Fated Undersea Craft
Praised for Conduct.
NEW YORK. Feb. 10 Responsibil
ity ror the explosion of the submarine
E-2 which resulted in five deaths was
placed upon the Edison Storage Bat
tery Company by Lieutenant Niemetz.
counsel for Lieutenant Cooke, com
mander of the vessel, who summed up
the evidence before a naval court of
inquiry. Commander McGrann of the
United States army, who represented
the Edison interests, declared on the
contrary that they could not be at
fault.
Niemetz contended that the storage
battery from which it has been assert
hydrosen gas was escaping prior
to the explosion, was installed abso
lutely according to the directions of
the manufacturers, as was the venti
lator system. He asserted that In
structions for car operations of the
battery were incomplete regarding ven
tllation. He said Cooke had discover
ed the existence of "low cells" which
became reverse on large discharges of
batteries. He asserted Cooke had
sought to obtain a hydrogen detecting
device but none was supplied him:
that authorization by the bureau or
ste-.iDi engineering of an instrument to
enable him to get individual cell vol
tage readings was held up by object
ions of the Edison Company.
It is asserted that the first series of
tests or the E-2 were considered un
satisfactory by the Edison Company
and that thereafter the submarine bat
tery was placed at the disposal of the
manufacturers that it micht be im
proved. The discharge of the storage
battery to zro voltage on the day of
the accident. Niemetz said, was at the
desire of the Edison Company. Nie
metz declared the Edison Company
was fully aware that the battery was
o be watered on the day of the acci
dent but Lieutenant Cooke wasn't
warned or the danger, ir any existed,
or watering the battery at the same
time it was discharging. In closing
Niemelz crntended the conduct or the
commander and crew prior to the ac
cident was "exceptionally commenda
ble" because they made every effort
to familiarize themselves with the
new bHttery and safeguard against ac
cidents. Captain McGrann asserted that while
the company was not obliged to supply
anything more than the battery it did
a'l in its power to assure the success
of the battery. It supplied the Navy
IVnnrtnipnt with all Information pos
sible concerning the batfry. ventila
tion and cooling system which "played
such an important part in the accl
cin:." McGrann argued the real is
sue was whether the company had
misrepresented the battery or failed
to disclose anything it had reason to
believe the Navy Department should
know regarding possible danger. He
held thai ir the naval officials railed
to determine these facts, it was not
the manufacturer's tault.
SUBMARINE CAPTURED.
NEW YORK. Feb. 10. Dr. M. S.
Inglis. a Canadian amy suregon. who
arrived on the liner Cameronia from
Liverpool, declared he had knowledge
or the capture In British nets or sev
enteen German submarines and told
how the crew or one had been shot
to death and towed ashore. Ingli
said he had been allowed to descend
in this suhamrine and had seen the
bodies.
"To save them from death from
suffocation." he said, "the comr,!anlr
had shot all his men and then himself,
apparently."
