vnttg
WITHER FORECAST:
OrtWfMt WctW Twiigitt. ,
(Full Report on fcage Two) ,f , '
HOME
EDITION
NXTMBKR 0807.
WAgHWflfatf, .!FBtlAY EVJSNlKGr, FEBRUARY 11, 1016.
PBIOB ONE CVm. '
V
mjMWr"ij MvmmwurwrH7,j': "
fc ' -J' . A- . . TT W -J. iWf . . ' !5i -T 1 It .. -. V
Che 1 toMttttfmt Cim
. .. ' ' ' 'I . H 'I I ,i. .1 - 'i --- i !
-' 1 ' ' ' ' ' " " I l i J. I "i . , ,.,.. L , i. .
,A
W
10 Al LKWRIEO Oi.
London Does Not Believe U. S.
Win-Change as to "Practice
Recognized fay All Nations."
CALLED PfcEA.FOR PIRACY
Edict'' It Held to Revive the
WtjoJe Question of Subma
rine Warfare.
LOypOV. Fetf. lt.-New Issues. M
jrrave a thoss moWn about tho sink
ing of the LusltapK " art,. tween
the. United 8tateiJ and the central pow
er a a reeult of -the German announce
ment that .all enemv armed merchant
men' wjll be 'treated aa warehlos and
torpedoed 'without warnlne after Vcb-
ruarV & " ' .
Austria, according to an Amaterdam
dispatch todoy.'haa handed to the Amer
ican ambassador at Vienna a note al
, roost Identical In text with the German
communication.
H Is stated on reliable authority that
'England 'an'dv her allies under noi cir
cumstances, will rleld the right to rm
mcTchantrntn for 'defensive purposes; a
practice recognized by all nations.
' Called 'Plea For Piracy.
It 1 not believed here that the United
State, having, already recognized thla
right, "yrllt-" chango hor pollcV In tho
middle of a great war. ,
Should a German or Austrian subma
rine actliur jinder the new Instructions,
torpedo without warning and' sink a
Brlthih,pr K-ench liner, carrying" Amer
ican passengers, the United States. It
la blleyed hejt. wjll take prompt and
' decisive,' actlpn, "
The' text of the German memorandum
reached tendon too late for lengthy
comment In tho morning panara. ine
newspapers.' With- headings such as
"tfew Plea for Piracy." declare that the
.-Zi.l- .-'-.. .mIh.
MffhtillthoSll
InMi.ilrtA.t liw m)nA humsnltv.
They esbriee the ODJnlon that thaj eub-marinr-dltputV
bitween Germany) and
the1 United Htatcsi far from belnr setr
tlot.- Is suddenly to?ned Dy .tn5 ,n"
nouncement of new German policy
Revive U-Boat Question.
"The German memorandum." says the
Times. "Is a complaint awalnst the per-ft-ctlv
leKltlmate anil Jobjc. practiced
i iKht of our merchantmen to carry mine
for defense. Germany baa thus raised
wain the' whole question of submarine
warfare as affectlncr neutrals."'
i no LnUoU males, tt ts hoped In
official circles here, .will protest to Ger
many atralnst the enforcement of tne
low policy before It goes Into effect.
It was Vhlntcd here that possibly
President Wilson had been Informed
In advance that Germany' oontempiatca
iich an announcement and that it was
this knowledgo that led him to declare
on his recent tour that he did not know
v hnt America's International relations
might bo tomorrow.'"
US. Likely to Follow
Berlin's New war Rule
Regarding Armed Ships
The United States Government Is giv
ing; immediate consideration to the ques
tion of aroandlntr Its regulations regard
ing armed merchantmen to square with
Iho notion of Germany And Auotria la
clvng notification that after .March 1
they' will consider armed ships of the
enemy as auxiliary cruisers.
It was stated on high authority today
that the United States cannot protest
tho announced sea policy of the central
powerc to sink armed merchantmen
without warning, slncu the Germanic al
lies are putting In force a policy vlr
(Contlued on Fifth rage.)
WD DIB AFTER
' FIFTY YEARS II BED
.
Miss Fancher, of Brooklyn, In
vited President to Half Cen
tury Anniversary on Feb. 3.
NEW YORK. Feb. 11. Mollle Kan
c.ner, famous invalid, of Brooklyn, who
had been bed-ridden for ttrty years, is
dead. Miss Fancher died -at her home
last night, it who learned today.
Mollle Fancher celebrated her fiftieth
year in bed on February 3.' Hlie in
, vlted President Wilson to attend the
celebration, of the anniversary.
Propped up In the bed to which she
had been confined for half a century,
the cheer)', helpless cripple received
c6ren of friends. The reception lasted
m early afternoon untlr late nt night.
The next day It wna said "she was some
what tired, but that a rest would quick,
J y restore her.
Hies Fancher was thrown from a
Mret car when sixteen years old. fllnce
that time she has been, constantly In
nJ. She was an ardent suffragist and a
Krcat reader. .
Three birds two parrot and a canary
had been Mini Fanchvi" constant
companions tar years.
Favorable Action Taken by
House Committee on Carlln
, Measure.
COST PLACED AT $1,000,000
Secretary of War Would Be Au
thorized to Select Site at
Georgetown; r
A favorablo report on the Carlln bill
for a new Aqueduct bridge In George-
town, to cost approximately h,w",
was ordered today by the House Com
mute on Interstate and Foreign Com
merce. The bill provides that the new bridge
shall be constructed "across the Poto
mac rlvei" at or near what U now
known, as tho Aqueduct bridge, replac
ing sal bridge with a substantial struc
ture at a cost of not mora than tl.OOU
000." In view of the present, unstable con
dition of the old Aqueduct bridge, the
bill carries an appropriation of 160,009
to maintain and repair Ihe existing
brldae so that tt may be used until the
new structure ts ready.
District To Py Hair.
The Secretary of War is authorised
to select the site 'or the new bridge,
to make alt plans forjiit construction,
and to acquire whatever land or prop
erty may be necessary to give ap
proaches to the new bridge. The Secre
tary Of War la also nuthnrinvl n run.
tract for the removal of the existing
AquHimi Dnago ana lor its sale.
The sum of 1300,000 is made immedi
ately available for' beginning the con
struction of the new bridge, for the pre.
paratlon of plans, and (or the acquisi
tion of necessary land on either side
of tho river by condemnation or pur
chase, ..," 4 . 1
.Tho hHL Dravl&ea thn lnnn.halr of iUm
oot of constructing the bridge, and lis
ftln"f
-- n, uwuniif, onu .numonis its use
.by the Washington e.na Old Domihloh
railway, telegraph and telephone cem
panles. or any other concerns that may
hereafter be given the right to cross
the new f rldgo.
t.lB4.M.a. .A ....At. . ..
IN LINE DF BATTLE
Great Fleet Prepared for In
stant Response to German
Challenge.
By WILBUR S. FORREST.
SOMEWHERE IN THE NORTH
BEX. Feb. 11. Huge British cruisers,
the .fleetest scouting vessels and a
whole host of mosquito craft are
formed In constant battle line here
headed toward the sea. They are
Jammed with men. Everything Is in
readiness for Instantaneous response
on the day the wireless cracks out:
"The German fleet is coming out."
Through courtesy of the admiralty,
X was enabled to spend a day aboard
the giant battle cruiser Tiger and
tho smaller cruiser New Zealand. The
Tiger not only is larger than any
dreadnaught In the United States
navy, but it has a speed of thirty
knoU an hour. The Germans believe
they flank her in the battle off DoggeV
Ilank on January 34, 1816. This re.
Sort Is said to have been taken to
,SVf!ay ay a zDtflln that hovered
10,000 feet above the sea; bombard
ing British sailors while they were
rescuing survivors of the German
battle cruiser Dlucher. The Zeppelin
cfw. u Tf.'K. l hve mistaken the
sinking Bliicher for the Tiger.
Scout ships for the British battle crui
ser squadron are constantly at sea.
They have accounted for several su
m.'1ne"..wi?1n have ttempted to enter
the English haven.
Thousands of men from the ships oc
cupy their .leisure time making muni
tions apl army supplies. They are the
secret envy of their comrades with the
grand British fleet, because they have
fought the only great action In the
North Sea and have the scars to show
for it.
The Titter's armor ! tm ,. .
tho impact of a shell one of the last
kicks irom mo nmener Derore she rolled
over and went down.
NEW RULE AFFECTS
48,000 WATER USERS
Annual Rent Bills Where Meters
Have Been Installed Pay
able in Adyance Aug. 1.
.
1li6 Commissioners today ordered
that on and after July l, isio. all annu
al water rent bills whero meters have
been Installed shell be payable in ad
vance on Augun 1, Instead, of July 1
of each year.
The rlinngo, It was explained, Is ne
cessitated by the fact that It is not
rosvlhlo tn rend tho meters and com
pute and deliver the bills by July l.
The number Of Sllrh mutrru It la
ntntert. Is morn than IS.OOO. All other
water rent bills will he due and
able in advance on July 1, u formertf.
BRITISH CRUISERS
1 I I i i .H . iiTTiUi -,'. i i i 11 ' "'.''.'. i
. ' ' 1 . . ,y ' , " " ' '
' MENTJbNEB FOk CABINET VACANCY J
vbIbbbbHbbbV sflPBBBBaWV S&tREBBS.
zHHHIIv rJM$wMfr yeslrliBUBMKSHB'v
BBBBBBBBP W vBRSi' V f-i VsBBbHP''IIbBBBN
bbbbbK'bb v'jbsM' ' '" U,;''-''bM bbbbHI' .;' 'Ai' bbDbI
BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBf .1.. AtlBBBBBB BBBBBBk. f . -v ' -.H. XBBBB1 BBBBBBBBBBHMti. CBBBBBBBBBBBl
BBBBHbBBBBBT 5( '? "BBBb tk'BBBBB ' .' V'4 1BBBB BBBBBBBBSrf-' " HbBBBBBBBbI
BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBaBn bBmHb1'''-sI ' iBaBBF-' HbBsP i.'! B eBBBBBBBBBBt BBbHbBbWMIiBBBBBBBbI
fBBBBBBBVjM.:!i'2r'4lHBK.;'9lfl ..'i t, WtQstWiiJ'H'' 'it ', " '''flH 'tBbbbbbbt ''-1 f' F.?bbHbH
I BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBbJWJfV&&alBBBBBBK ' t'' IBBBBbB Vy f bKvIBbBBBBBE TWi L HBBBBBBH X BBBBBBBBBBBBBbL "?. uBSUBBUBBBBBBBBSBBBBBBBBi
bbbbbbbbbbb!bHbbbbbK'1bP'bbI ai'WE"r i 'fVfitijJfflB DRVIbbbiIbbH
Btt-'HMat & '1 bbbbbbbbbbbbbHHPbbUbSIbBI 'th"-''i'BKf-'M-JR.
BBBBBBBBBBBBbV7IBK ?-BBBt?aK BBBBBBBBBBBflSrBlBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBfl kf' ' i'I.BBBBBBl '"WV BBBBBBBBBBBBI
lfBIBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBL BBiBBBBKEDBVi BBBBBBBBIF '.WBBBBBBEBBBBbIBBBBBbIBBbI rSBBBBBBBK&B; JBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBFI
' BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBSaW.aaiBBBBBKXBBVy BBBBBBBB4'BBBBBBBBBBBBBHBBBBBBBBBBBb1i laKHK3KiMV
9BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBVy BBafHadBSS' ' ' ' -BBBBBBBBBBBBBBKl VBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBVy
"A,mSIB2 bbbbbbQPw'bbbbbbbbbBIi Zmmja
mMi bbbbb'WIbbbbbbbbbbE t4
BBBBBBHsV' t '1 EbBBBBBBBBbBPI J'
SWA'GER SHEltLEY. 9S9 FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT. -
FIGHTING IS PIERCER WM; REDFIELD PROTESTS
ON FRENCH FRONT iwll SHEPPARD DRY BILL
Russians Engage in Heavy At
tack on Austrians Northwest
of CzcrnowUz.
MNDON. Feb.ll.-Dcglnnlng with local
attacks in the Ariols' nnd south .of Ar
ras, furious lighting Is now spreading all
amng the western front, according to
dispatches from both; Paris and Berlin
today.
'At the i same time Petrograd .reports
that Russians engaged In a heavy at
tack aa-sln'kt thn Austrian positions t
northweit ofCxernowltx, jind the Aue-
Hi i aBBBBBKriJIr 0'' BBBBBll
i te.Br1. -.sbbbbII
deraVPtrt,r''wB.r' office, teporte hviy KnsslaB
attacks along tne entire irfnt irom ues
sarubJa and Vothynla. V .
. Official dispatcher from Paris Indicate
the renclvnuVo been counter-attacking
almost without cessation for forty-eight
hours In the Vlmy heights: region.
The battle has spread to the British
front: where a heavy artillery duel hoo
been In progress fcr more than twenty
four hours. .
Though both Germans and French are
engaged In violent attacks, it is evident
from official titatemenU. that tho fight
ing thus far has been almost without
Important results. The French war of
fice statement reports practically no
chunge as a result of last night's light
ing.. Allies Re-enforcing
Troops at Saloniki;
Artillery Is Landed
PARIS, Feb. 1L "Troops. f the enl
tente allies continue landing dally with
artlller-," "ays a dispatch to the Temps
Irom Bulonikl.
''Field Marshal von Mackenseh has
been on tho opposite front since feo
ruary 4.
"Other Informstion Is that the rail
way bridge across tho Varder at km
dova has been rebuilt.
"The Qennan heavy artillery, with tne
Jtulgarlan army Is suffering Irom in
adequate food transport."
A Havas dispatch from. Athens dated
February 9 says:
"Premier Hkoulotidls read a declara
tion In the Greek Chamber to the errec:
that the program or the government
was above all to keop the forces of tne
nation Intaet and. uso them exclusively
In "o Intnrcsts of the country.
".The premier said tho course of events
had shown that this policy, whose ob
ject was to avoid trouble for Greece,
had obtained approval of a majority of
tho noDUla'.lon This policy, he asserted.
would be -continued, notwithstanding.
pressure, wnlch the people were endur
ing couragenusly In the hope thnt right
and justice would soon recover their
authority. .
"In the discussion which followed, the
declaration of M. Gounarls, former pre
mier., supported the government. The
chamber unanimously approved the dec
eleration of M. Skouloudls,'
Czernowitz Is Again
Menaced by Russians;
JPoe's Position in Peril
PETnoqnAD. - Feb. It Develop
ments In the Gallclan campaign, whlcl.
for a fortnight have been mentioned
only briefly In the official statements,
figure prominently In today's newk.
Considerable Importance Is attached to
the occupation of Usclecxko, on the
Dniester, near the Bukowlna frontier,
which now Is securely In Russian
hands.
After successfully resisting enegretlc
efforts of the Austro-Qerman forces to
break their lines, the ltussians nave
inu. r..nm.r1 111 nff.n.lvjt Tiia!. nti.
Ject Is the capture of Czernowitz, the
capital of Bukowlna, which It Is
thought would exert powerful influ
ence on Roumnnlo.
Usc"czko gives the Aussians n new
and Important line of communication
and threatens tho poMUon of the Aus
trians in the region of Czernowitz.
Capture of this town Is regarded as a
Heclded step In the direction of tho
Russian goal.
The unusual nocuracy and effectlve-1
ness or inr uussian nrunerv is men
tioned in all nccounta of the flehtln.
which Is continuing vigorously nn the
uvinsK inni. inn Herman aavance
gnerds, which have been attempting
stubbornly to establish new positions,
hv been forred bp repeatedly, whuV
n the act' of dlcglnc trtr.che. to their
former I'iim, Notw(l)tnndlnir their
"tfi-i'ih prions, ine line is npproxl
pay-'mrlv the pame ns that held by them
last October. ' n
V m mil i
IIZKl1' .-". .rr'SBBBBBtA
lllm 'ibbbbX
tt&k&&P BBBBS
P 7W afiSBBBBBBBBBBW
Vu&I.bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbV
VVbbbbbbbHbHHbbbbbbRVVbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbV
Abtrte FRANKLIN
BeHMjg-HENRY M.
K. L'ANEi.
I'INfoELL.
ON LOAF IS URGED
Commissioners Favor Bill for
SanitaryWrapping of Bread.
Suggest Amendment.
With the recommendation that It be
amended o as to nrovlde for the mark
ing on the package ot the name and
uuuruna ui wiu nitutur aim mo nvt weisui
of the loaf, the Cpmmlssloners .today
sent to Congress a favorablo report on
the bill Introduced by Senator Mc
Cumber to provide for tho sanitary
wrapping of bread In the District.
Tho amendment l suggested, the
Commissioners say. in order that the
fiublic may bo safeguarded from the
mposltlon of having to pav an ex
cesslvo price for the wrapping.
"The danger of this," the board
states, "la peculiarly great in the Dis
trict of Columbia, where oven th word
'loar,' as applied to bread, signlflei, what
ever the baker finds It to his own ad
vantage to have if signify, and where
consequently the cnmpuleory wrauplm.'
of bread leads to' a reduction In the
size of tho loaf, roll, or other com
mercial unit without any corresponding
reduction In tho price.
"( oncfHlnmni of nut actual weight ot
ny commercial unit of bread and tho
weight determines the nutritive valuo to
a greater extent than the bulk Is now
possible through tho control of the tex
ture of broad and the shape of tho un't.
If the loaf or other unit be wrapped
there will be further opportunity for
concealing tho weight, and opportunity
for even concealing' the bulk by the
skillful devising of wrappors and pack
ages for, that purpose."
Thcvbllt prohibit the sale in the Dls
trlctr.of bread Intended to be used aa
food unless It be inclosed In a "suit
able sanitary wrapper or -package that
will protect It from dust. Insects or
other contamination." The Penalty is
. fine not to exceed $100 or Imprisonment
not to exceed three months.
The Commissioners Mso recommend
that the bill bo amended so as to pro
vide for prosecution of the act In the
Police Court by tho Corporation Counsel
or ono of his assistants. ,
BIG ESTaTEHERE" TO
T
Kdward L. Schneider, former presi
dent of the Rosslvn Packing Company,
by the terms of his will filed for pro
bate today, leaves an estate valued at
$200,000 to hlq sister-in-law. Mrs. Linda
C. Ilahn. wife of a German reservist
now n prisoner in France, and tho four
children of the couple, whom he adopted
about a month aso..
The will was dated Decembor 18. 1914,
xd named Mr. Schneider's wife. Mrs,
Emma V. Schneider nnd the -Continental
Trust Company as executors.
Mrs.' Schneider died two davs ego.
The will nrovldes that on the death of
tho wife, the Continental Trust Com
pany and Mrs. Linda C. Ilahn. mother
of the adontcd children, shall hold the
entire estate In trust, the Income to be
raid to Mrs. Ilnltn ilurlmr her life. At
the death of Mrs. Matin the estate Is to
ho divided equally among the (our
vhtluren. .
MARKINGOFWEIGHT
FAMILY OF RESERVES
Tells Senate Anti-Alcohol Clause
Would Hamper Work of Bu
reau of Fish'eries.
J-lirther protest against the Bheppsrd
bill in IU present from, on the ground
that it seriously would hamper sclen
tlttc work "of the tJovernment bureaus,
was filed today by Secretary of Com
merce Redfietd. Secretary McAdoo-
already had lied a. protest against the
same features or tne measure.
t.'Af- m. tnMtlnir bikt. nlrht the Wash
tngton Aerie of iWgleiC lined up gainst
ine diii, ana u u expectea max a num
ber of other fraternal organisation and
clubs will follow the EAgicV lead, in
addition to filing formal protests. It la
understood they will 'urge a referen
dum.
Fish Expert's Protest.
The effect "or tho bill on the sclenUftc
work of tho Bureau of Fisheries was
called to the attention of Secretary
RedHeld by Fish Commissioner Hugh
M. Smvth In the following Utter, .which
the Secretary forwarded to Corvrress
todnv with his indorsement:
I 'I b'K to call your attention to certain
provisions of a bill now pending in Con
gress, which, If enacted without further
amendment, will have the effect of se
rtously Impairing the scientific work of
this bureau. The bill referred to Is num
bered 8. 10S2, and entitled, "A bill to
prevent the manufacture and sale of ol
cohollc liquors In the District of-Columbia,
and for other purposes." It nn
pears that one effect of tho provision
ot this bill Is to prevent storage, deposit,
or sale In the District of Columbia, or
Importation Into the District, of pure
grain aiconoi tor scienuno or mecnanlcal
purposes In lots exceeding fire gallons
at one time. It docs not appear that
any exception Is made In the case ot
Government .-departments which may
require relatively large. amounts of. alco
hol for the efficient 'performance of
work.
"The Burenu of Fisheries uses about
nrteen parrels or pun grain alcohot
each year In the prosecution or neces
sary Investigations. It may' be stated
positively that the work cannot be oron.
erly carried on without the use of alco
hol in approximately such an amount.
"While there are other preservattlvea
which are adapted for particular pur
poses, no substitute has been found for
pure grain alcohol for the greater num
ber of Uses. Wool alcohol Is hlshtv In.
Jurtous to the health of those who have
to work over the collections preserved In
mis meaium.
"It Is stronelv ursred that vnu will
bring these facts to the attention of the
Continued on Second Page.)
STRiraJSlRK
Ironworkers Find Stonework
ers Are Not Affiliated1 With
A. F. of L.
Forty Iron workers employed on the
new Interior Department building, on
the block between Eighteenth, Nine
teenth, E, and F streets northwest, went
on strike vesterday because other em
ployes on the' lob were not union men.
The Ironworkers were asked to con
struct derricks for the stoneworkers
on the Job. They fo.und that while the
stonoworkers were presumed to be
union tnen. they were not affiliated with
the American Fcderntlon of Labor. The
Ironworkers, accordingly, laid town
their tools. '
.The work on the new building will be
delayed to some extent bv the defection
of tho Iron workers, but the contractors
expect to offect a settlement of th'M
iroucie very soon.
Florida A tWer Indian Limited."'
Atlantic Coast Lino. 3:05 p. m. rinllv.
Only train carvlnor thmUch sleeper to
Orlando and Tamna with one night out
service. Office. JW N. ave. nw.
-Altt. m
ON FEDERAL BUILDING
SCOTT APPOINTED
TEMPORARILY. AS
WAR SECRETARY
Chief of Staff Named By Executive Ordpr
- To Serve Until Cabinet Officer Is
V - 'l .
. ApppintedPresident's Selection -'
- Expected Soon.
SEVERAL NAMES
Retiring Secretary
Asserting He Is "Out of Politics."
tane, Pindell, Houston, Roosevelt
.
and Sherley Possible ,
Pending the selection of a successor to Judge tindley
M. Garrison, President .Wilson today signed ari Executive
order designating Maj. Gen. Hugh L. Scott, chief of stafjf
of the army, as Acting Secretary of War.
The ad interim appointment is "for a period not to
exceed thirty days, until a successor shall have been ap
pointed and qualified."
Announcements the President's selection for Secre
tary is expected within a day or two. ' '
. There is strong pressure in behalf of Franklin K, Lane,
at present Secretary pf the Interior, and mention has also
been made of Secretary of Agriculture Houston.
''' In a. statement given out ai-Ne'York -today, Mn
Garrison announced hisintention of retiring from politics
and scouted theridea that he woiildtake the stump against
the Administration,
It was a solemn body of men who gathered at the
White House to participate in the Cabinet session. The'
chair so long occupied by the former Secretary of 'War
stood empty. For the most part they appeared to sym
pathize with the President's position. None of them, how
ever, would criticise the action of Mr. Garrison or comment
on its effect.
In addition to Secretary Lane, the names most prom
inently mentioned are Congressman Swagar Sherley of
Kentucky, Assistant 'Secretary of (the Navy Franklin D.
Roosevelt, and Henry M. Pindell,- of Illinois.
Leading newspapers, in corrfmenting on the resigna
tion, express regret over Mr. Garrison's withdrawal.
Administration leaders in the House say that his. ac
tion will have no effect on pending measures for defense.
Speedy Selection '
Of Successor To
Garrison Expected
Announcement of the successor to
former Secretary of War Undley M.
Garrison U expected, to ie made within
the next day or two. The President is
said to have In mind a man whose
name has not figured in any of the
speculation.
The President's advisers are strongly
urging that the appointment be maae
as soon aa possible and that the man
selected should be or a character which
ou!d at once restore public confidence.
Speculation oa to Garrison's successor
Is buried beneath consideration of the
alleged incompatible difference between
the retiring Secretary of .War and the
President regarding measures or na
tional defense. That tho Becretary re
garded their differences to be of prin
ciple; no t merely of method, tt la
agreed, ia shown, by his decision ana
that TJf his assistant, Henry B. Ureeit
Inrldge. to leave the department.
Reasons For Breach.
Irreconcilable differences between the
former Becretary and the President on
tho question of preparedness and Phil
ippine legislation are specified by Mr.
Garrison as the reasons for the break.
Friends of the President, however, In
sist that the President was giving loyal
support to the Secretary's program.
The immediate reason for the resig
nation. It Is believed, was thut Score.
tary Garrison considered humiliating a
request from the President regarding a
speech he was to have' made yesterday
afternoon before the United Stater
Chamber of Commerce. Garrison, the
President wrote him, should "feel no
hesitation about expressing personal
views on both these subjects (the Phil
ippines and national defense), but I hope
you -will be kind enough to draw very
carefully the distinction between yout
own Individual "views and the views of
the Administration."
Tho Garrlon letter to the President,
which drew forth this request, written
on Wednesday, said that the Secretary
considered the Clarke amendment to the
Philippine Independence bill, which gave
the Islanders charge of their own sf.
fairs In two tp four years, "an abnn.
ment of the duty of this nation and a
breach of trust to. the Filipinos."
Regarding the strong chances or pas
(Contlnutd on Pace fits.)
ARE MENTIONED
Gives Out Statement
Garrison Through
Wifh Politics, Will
Not Oppose Wilson
NEW YORK. Feb. ll.-Maklng his
first statement as to his futuro plans
since his resignation as Secretary ot
War, Llndlcy M. Garrison today de
clared he had retired from politics, and
that he "could not conceive of his tak
ing the etump against President Wil
son." The former Secretary received .news
paper men early, thla afternoon at the
homo of George Leery, on Fifth. jtYemue.
Ho went to the Lcary homo Immediately
on his arrival here last night, but dur
ing the morning all communication with
him Was denied and It was first de
clared ' ho would mako no statement
whatever.
"Got It out of your head that there
la anything political in my action," waa
one of Mr. Garrison's first statements
when word was finally sent out that he'
would meet the reporters.
"I am going to nnd some place where
I can pursue my vucatlon, or avocation,
support myself and wife and lay by
little for tho future," he continued.
-..-I1."! out of Politics. I am not a can
didate for the governorship of New Jer
aoy. and would not accept the governor-
!,,,l.,f J. w,ro handed u certificate of
election.
Afljed If he Intended to carry his op
position to President Wilson's plans for
the nrmy in connection with his pre
paredness campaign further, nnd openly
oppose the President, Mr. Garrison aatd:
"I cannot conceive of my taking the
stump against the President.
"I have served the public for twelve
years, and circumstances are ueh now
the rut"1 " t0 Iuy by HOmctnlnB tor
The former Secretary refused to dis
cuss politics in nny woy. He said he
talked with Assistant Secretary Breck
inridge beforo submitting his resigna
tion, but declared he consul. no one
cic, nuu nnuw nuining oi anyone else
contemnlatlnr rotlrmoni
AallMl
. . T A . . -... .
-"".. .. ... ..... ......tun iu icsign
iVIH rAnnllftfl JMlrirlAttli. j ..n.l v .... ......
Whether his decision tn rralirn
.i -...a.a i.. . . -,
templatrd for romo time, Mr. Garrison
said: "That hinges .on policy. You
must get your Impression from the pub
lished correspondence, ,
"I have no Plans, except ,to resume
my profession.'' he continued. "I refuse
to think on any subject whatever per
taining to the Administration. I have
ellrfd from politics absolutely."
Mr. Garrison refused to discuss inter
nstlonsl affairs In any way. He said he
might remain In New York throughout
today and tomorrow,
N.
. (
i 111.
cJiv
