i6
TlJR INTKR
IX jT" lf.
)UR
Established 1860.57th Year. No. 12. Stanford, Lincoln County, Kentucky, Friday, February 11, 1916.
Tuesdays and Fridays
Sjj
He
JL
BUSINESS MEN
ENTHUSIASTIC
Over Future Which Can Be Made for
Stanford By Right Sort of Boost
ing Organization.
Steps were taken at a meeting of
about 30 business men of Stanford
Tuesday night, looking to the consol
idation of all of the co-operative
commercial organizations of the
city into a strong central body which
shall have for its purpose the most
worthy object of putting Stanford
tnore decidedly and more prominent
ly "on the map" of this part of Ken
tucky. Enthusiasm was rampant at the
meeting fpr a Boosting campaign,
which will result in a greater and
better Stanford. The old Commer
cial Club, which as its former presi
dent said, had as about the only
tangible result of its work the "dislo
cation of the Boone Way," was mer
ged into a new organizaztion to be
known as the Stanford .Chamber of
Commerce. The Credit Men's Asso
ciation, Tinder the auspices of Tvhich
the luncheon or smoker was held
Tuesday evening, will form an inte
gral part of the new Chamber of
Commerce, as a body within the main
organization, both working toward
the same chief purpose to make this
one of the best business communities
in the state.
The luncheon was a most delight
ful affair in every particular. It
was faultlessly served at the Prin
cess by Manager Wallace Walter,
the menu consisting of oyster soup,
old ham sandwiches, chicken salad,
hot rolls, coffee with sugar and real
cream, and ice cream and cakes.
Those gathered around the prettily
decorated tables were Messrs. Wm.
Severance, W. M. Bright, E. J. How.
everance, ""; g "
enstme, J. C. McClary, K. b- Alcorn,
Tf J, V .- ---y . - ,
r w 'Knnnnn. 1V1. oauiieY. xxm-
ry Hill, Howard Newland, T. W. Pen
nington, E. J. Brown, and John W.
Brown, of Mt. Vernon, Alfred Pence,
A. B. Florence, H. J. McRoberts, E.
B. Campbell, John S. Baughman, Tom
Pence, W. K. Warner, Sam Robinson,
T Tt Southard. J. W. Acev, J. C.
-ul.-wV.fPnn, -Phillms. T. KfaoM'.HJSb&S tT,nS -slwuld'newsiof.his deathwiU be .hearjKwith
JJF .-. v rf - ----X'-" -
w r- w;Wn . j. d, Camenter. ,-T
After the luncheon had put every
one in a good humor, and cigars had
teen passed around, President Wm.
Severance, of the Credit Men's As-1
sociation, called the session to order,
and introduced the various speakers,
-making a most interesting talk him
self at the beginning, in which he
told of the origin of the credit men's
body about a year ago and of the
amount of good which the members
had obtained from membership in it
even in that short length of time. He
believed that what had been done
by that body was simply an indica
tion of what an. enlarged organiza
tion could accomplish in Stanford, an
organization in which every live bu
siness man had an active, working
part, and all pulling together to
make this a better city. He asserted
that Stanford would never go for
ward if the business men were con
tent to sit still and let things drift
along.
Mr. Severance then introduced E.
T. Howenstine, secretary of the I
Credit Men's Association, and one
of the city's "live wires." Mr. How-.
enstine gave his hearers some very
valuable and interesting information
on Rules Governing a Successful
Credit Department. Mr. Howenstine
has made his collection agency here
one of the most potent factors in re
ducing credits to a science and ev
ery word he said was the soundest
sort of business common sense. He
declared that the real difficulty en
countered was the lack of energy on
the part of merchants and business
men. He urged a broader vision in
salesmanship, a spirit of promptness,
and declared that the secret of suc
cess in the credit department is a
strong will, an invincible purpose
and a settled determination.
"The Law and the Merchant" was
responded to next by Attorney K. S.
Alcorn, who gave the merchants and
business men present some informa
tion which concerns them vitally
that undoubtedly opened the eyes of
a great many of those present. He
sketched briefly and very entertain
ingly a few of the laws with which
the merchants usually come daily
in contact with, and those concern
ing which the business man should
inform himself, naming the chief
statutes which affect the man in bu
siness to be the statute of limita
tieae, the right of a njgfrried wo
man, the rights of infants, the law
of assessments, the law concerning-j
attachments, the law concerning
property which is exempt, etc.
Cashier W. M. Bright, of the Lin
coln County National Bank, followed
Mr. Alcorn -with a breezy and inter-
esting talk on the relations of The
Banker and the Merchant. Mr. Bright
declared emphatically for an aggres
sive advertising and boosting cam
paign for Stanford, which he declar
ed was the only way that new busi
ness could be brought into the com
munity. He pointed out the vast pos
sibilities which lie to the east of this
city, and that Stanford might well be
advertised as the gateway to the rich
southeastern section of Kentucky.
Mr. Bright suggested that a descrip
tive booklet or pamphlet of Stanford
and Lincoln county, should be issued,
and distributed throughout the sec
tions in which they might do the
most good. He was liberally ap
plauded when he offered to be one
of 20 men who would contribute $10
to a fund, to be kept separate and
distinct from the regular fund of the
commercial organization, to be used
strictly as an advertising fund for
the city to get out and distribute
matter showing what Stanford has
and has to offer; and then declared
that after the fund was raised, he
would be one of a number to contrib
ute $5 more each as an additional
fund to keep the good work going.
Mr. Bright gave his hearers some
splendid suggestions on co-operation
among the business interests of this
city. He said in part:
"I hope there is not a man here
tonight who came with the sole idea
of a social meeting and a good time.
We are here for a purpose to devise
something that will be a benefit to
our town and county. Let's put a
little business judgment and aggres
siveness into it. Every merchant and
every banker who has red blood in
his veins wants his institution to
grow. In order to secure new busi-
ness, we must indicate a desire for
new business. When a new , store
opens up in town the first thing they
do is to tell the people who they are
whe're they are and the bargains
they have to offer. When Hays Fos -
,
. . . ... ... .
picture, he circularizes the town and
a man on the top of his l,"st -,f5 , ! prof. Pinkerton was for eight
with a megaphone tells the people years connected with Campbell-Hag-to
come and they come. In this un- el.man College, this city. Previous to
dertaking, I want to suggest that we , coming, here he was president, of
all take trumpets and megaphones n,;an rnnorra nt TTiifivillf nn.1
and not hammers.
. .
is.wieu-ie-wniie woriavno ,we,
.7 --r A. A lt rfAl.'- M-X I.V.1 od Jj.1 .TI-TT"'
are, ana xxie attractions we nave to former school patrons thruout uen
offer. Let's have a publicity league. tral Kentucky. The body will be
.-... . .
Why not let the coal and lumber op-
prators in Eastern Kentucky know
of the church, educational advan-
tages and homes for their families
we have here, and let the natives of
the mountains who have sold their
lands at good prices, know of the the younger set of Somerset, and
good farms and homes in Lincoln j Neil Waddle, son of Ed Waddle, as
county and our splendid markets and sistant cashier of the First National
shipping facilities to Louisville, Cin-' Bank of that city, eloped to Glen
cinnati, Knoxville, Atlanta and other Mary, Tenn., and were made husband
points. Why can we not unite to
extend the trade limits of Stan
ford? Instead of me trying to in
duce one of the First National's good
depositors to come to our bank, let
me try to bring new ones to the
town; instead of you merchants try
ing to get onfr of your competitor's
good customers, branch out and
bring a new one to the town. This
will make Stanford grow.
"With the consent of the promo-
fprss rf tVnc trntVioririfr T nm rmnr fr
i ... T j ,
make you a proposition : In order to
advertise our town and county in an
Met that in itsdf wU1 be a creditmal weight" A reliable remedy for
to our own, I will be one 20 men to !
give $10.00'. When this is filled,' I i
will be one of 20 men to give $5.00, j
, this alone to be our Advertising ,
Fund or Publicity League. We want j
not less than $300, and then we ,
should send a good man to every !
town in Eastern Kentucky and dis-'. gestions as to what could best be
tribute them to the best advantage." j done to Boost Stanford, and the
Following Mr. Bright's sugges-. ideas of all were a unit, that new bu
ttons, President J. C. McClary, of the t siness enterprises should be secured
old Commercial Club, urged a con- if possible, attractive propositions
solidation of the various commercial should be made as far as possible to
organizations and enterprise. He said invite them here, and a live, aggres
that the only thing the old Commer- sive campaign instituted, looking to-,
cial Club had to show for its work , ward advertising Stanford as the
was a "dislocation of the Boone . best town of anywhere near its size
Way," and that the real trouble had in the state.
been that Stanford had never gone j At the conclusion of these addres
af ter anything with a solid front. He J ses, by common accord, it was decid
said" that he, as a business man of the j ed to amalgamate all of the commer
city, had gotten more out of the j cial bodies of Stanford into a Chani-
Oreait Men's Association than any
other organization the town had ever
had, and urged that the business men
of Stanford put all their shoulders
to the wheel in a united effort.
S. M. Saufley then followed with ,
a round table on Boosting Stanford.
He defined Boosting as simply an- J
wuici Lcim iui nuvei Liauig, uiju Uli
l V- nmmm 4v 1 w xm.. -m m ma Jj Jj M "
clared that in boosting Stanford, it
should be the aim of the citizens in
-their combined efforts not onlyto let ,
:. .a ..
the outside world know of what Stan-
-ford has to offer in the way of ad-
vantages, but, to plan to secure other new members was proposed and will
things which will make the commu-'jbe formally launched, and-all left
nity still more attractive to outsiders with the keenest enthusiasm mani
anb at the 'same time, a betjter place ' fested in the new slogan Boost
in which to do business and make Stanford.
Helm Puts In Federal B
The first step toward a Government building for Stanford was tak
en by Congressman Harvey Helm at Washington Thursday when he in
troduced a bill in the House appropriating $10,000 for the purchase of
a site for a building here. If Congressman 'Helm can put this bill thru
the House, Senators James and Beckham will do everything in their pow
er to push it through the Senate. The Stanford Chamber of Commerce
will unboubtedly tafce nctlon upon this matter at once, and do everything
in its power to push the good work along. A telegram from Washing
ton Thursday told of Mr. Helm's bill as follows:
"When it developed today that there jnight be a Public Buildings
Bill at this session, Representative Helm introduced a special act appro
priating $10,000 for the purchase of a site for a Public Building in his
home town of Stanford, Ky."
PROF. B. Jr PINKERTON DEAD
Former Teacher in This County Pass
es Away In Florida.
News which vas received here
Wednesday of the death of Prof. B.
J. Pinkerton, caused much sorrow
among the many who knew him well
here and the large number who had,
studied -under himr both in Stan
ford and at Hustonville, where he
resided with hisfamily a number
of years ago- From Stanford,
Prof. Pinkerton went to Lexington
where he taught in Campbell-Hager-man
College. The Lexington Lead
er said of his death: A telegram
to relatives and friends here today
announcespthe death at Ormond,
Fla., of Prof. B. J. Pinkerton, for
merly one of the best known edu
cators in Central Kentucky. Hh
death, which was due to pneumonia,
came after several weeks' illness.
His condition several days ago was
reported as very encouraging, and
' hja death was a decided shock to his
relatives and numerous, friends here
I an(j elsewhere. His death occurred
, a the home of his sister, Mrs. J. D.
prjce. He was about seventy years
' 0i,j fln(j s survived by his wife and
- children. His wife and daugh-
' ter Miss Pearl Pinkerton, were with
, ,ipnfllpr. s. D.
; pjnkerton, of Versailles,
i '
Ulliwuaii vswi..fe , -,
Madison Institute, Richmond. The
regret
- v .' ( "
egret by'a wide circle of friends ana
brought back to Kentucky for bu-
rial.
' POPULAR COUPLE
WED.
, Miss Beulah Lewis.
one of the
prettiest and most popular girls of
, aml wife The bride is a dauehter
of the late James W. Lewis, and is
a strikinerlv handsome and attractive
girj Mr Waddle is a prominent
i young business man of his home
town.
After Lagrippe What?
F. G. Prevo, Bedford, Ind., writes:
'An attack of lagrippe left me with
n severe cold. I tried everything. I
got so thin it looked as if I never
'would get well. Finally, two bottles
. , , TT . ' ,
, f Foley s Ho"ey "? T,a1' cured me'
b '
erywhere
happier homes for the people alreadv
here. He called upon Mayor A. B.
Florence, J. C. Bailey, John S.
Baughman and W-C. Wilson for sug-
ber of Commerce. J. C. McClary
was chosen President, W. M. Bright,
Vice President and E. J. Howen
stine, Secretary by acclamation, and
these were authorizezd to suggest an
Executive Committee or Board of Di
rectors of six members to be reported
at the next meetfng next Friday eve-
ning, Feb. 18. The invitation of Mr.
Bright to make the directors' room
of the Lincoln National Bank, head-
quarters, was gladly accepted, Every
man present pledged himself to join
the new organization, a campaign for
jilding Bill for Stanford
WEALTHY ROCKCASTLE MAN
Passes Away at Brodhead Was a
wative or Lincoln.
Thomas S. Frith, one of the most
prominent and substantial citizens of
Rockcastle county, died at his home
at Brodhead at four o'clock Thurs
day morning, as a result of a gen
eral" break-down and complications
incident to old age. Mr. Frith was
75 years old, and nearly all of his
lifehad been spent in Rockcastle,
although he was born in the Preach
ersville section of this county. He
was pone of 13 children, of whom but
one as now left, J. G. Frith, of Brod
head, whose wife was a Lincoln
county lady. One of Mr. Frith's sis
ters! was the mother of Mrs. Jay
Howenstine and Lester O'Bannon, of
thisicity, and Mrs. Joe. L. B. Coffey,
of Frankfort.
Mr. Frith is .survived by three sons,
Messrs. Tilden, Morris and Herman
Frith. His wife preceded him into
the Great Beyond in July 1913.
Deceased was a life-long member
of the Christian church, and a mem
ber of" the Masonic lodge of Brod
head. He went to Brodhead whe.n a
yoang man, and engaged in the mer
cantile business there in 1864. Thru
keen business acumen, thrift and
honesty in his dealings with his fel
low man, he accumulated quite a
competence, and is said at the time
of his death to have owned more land
in Rockcastle than any other man,
his foldings approximating, probably
3,000 acres. .He was considered per
haps the wealthiest citizen of that
cougfy.
MWS'firal services w condee4-
at tmrWraeof the deceased on Fri
-V"- ., , , -. .
day afternoon at one o'clock, fol
lowed by interment in the Brodhead
cemetery, the Masons having charge
of the final rites over their departed
brother.
NORTH NUNNELLEY.
News was received from the West
End today of the elopement of Mr.
Ed Nunnelley, son of the late Thom
as G. Nunnelley, and Miss North,
the youthful and attractive daugh
ter of Mr. and Mrs. Grant North.
The young couple are said to have
eloped to a point in Tennessee where
they were married. Both are very
popular, and have many warm
friends who will extend hearty con
gratulations. GOOCH SPOONAMORE.
Rev. W. D. Welburn said the
words Wednesday afternoon at the
Methodist parsonage here which
united in matrimony's holy bonds,
Walter M. Spoonamore and Miss
Nellie Gooch, of Crab Orchard. Both
have a host of friends who will ex
tend congratulations and best wishes
for a long and happy life.
NOTES OF CURRENT EVENTS.
There has been no diminution in
the severe fighting in the Artois re
gion of France. Berlin reports that
German forces occupied a large sec
tion of a trench northwest of Vimy
and a mine crater near Neuille was
retaken. Paris, on the other hand,
states that southwest of Vimy, the
Germans were driven back.
Secretary of War Garrison and his
assistant, Henry S. Breckinridge, of
Kentucky, resigned yesterday be
cause President Wilson would not
"irrevocably" support the plan for
a continental army. Their succes
sors have not been chosen, but Con
gressman Swpger Sherley is one of
three men being mentioned in Wash
ington as a possible successor.
Germany and Austria-Hungary
have notified the United States that
after March 1 all armed enemy ves
sels will be sunk without warning,
and the action is regarded as a de
velopment of the recent memoran
dum of Secretary Lansing proposing
the disarming of merchant ships, and
an assurance of protection for un
armed vessels.
Sixty-one indictments were report
ed by the San Fra'ncisco Federal
grand jury in the German bomb con
spiracy cases, among the defendants
being the German and Austrian con
sular agents.
Now Feels Entirely Well7
A. H. Francis, Zenith Kas., writes:
"I had a ssverc pain in my back and
could hardly move T took about two
thirds of a 50c box of Foley Kidney
Pills and now feel entirely - well."
liddle-aged and older men and wo
men find these safe pills relieve sleep
disturbing bladder ailments. Sold
everywhere.
- FISH LANDS NICE PLACE.
On the day he was taken to Louis
ville to undergo a serious operation,
news was received by W. S. Fish
here of his appointment as a Deputy
Internal Revenue Collector under
the narcotic act to fill the vacancy
caused by the recent resignation of
Dr. W. N. Craig, of this city. Mr.
Fish had strong endorsements to both
Senators Beckham and James and
Congressman Helm, and the appoint
ment will be a very popular one.
Hustonville
Senator 'Charles F. Montgomery,
of Liberty motored through here
Monday morning on his way back to
Frankfort. He makes the trip thru
each Monday and back again Satur
day. A great deal of corn has been
changing hands here in the last few
I days at a considerable advance in
price.
T. L. Carpenter arrived home Fri
day from Danville where he had been
for a few days and seeing after the
sale of his tobacco crop, which he
sold at a satisfactory price.
McCormack & Tucker shipped over
200 hogs to Cincinnati last week that
they recently purchased in Lincoln
lounty a few days ago at from 5 3-4
to 6 cents.
Miss Margaret McCormack spent
a few dys last week in Danville vis
iting Mrs. C. R. McCormack.
B. W. Leigh is closing out his en
tire stock of goods. He will go back
to farming.
Miss Florence. Spragens of Ellis
burg, was in our midst last Friday.
Yowell & Eads sold to B. G. Fox,
of Danville, a cotton mule for $110.
W. G. Cowan bought of Billy Giv
ens last week a load of alfalfa hay
that he will feed to his ewes and
lambs.
Wm. Dodd shipped to John Mc
Chord of Lebanon, last week, a wild
goose for breeding purposes.
Mrs. R. L. Berry tells us that she
gathered up 90 eggs one day last
week.
J. Wesley Hughes of McKinney,
was herd Saturday shaking hands
with a number of old friends.
News comes from Lebanon that an
other son has been born to Mr. and
Mrs. W. H. Spragens, and has been
named John Brewer.
J. O. Carpenter, of Danville mo
tored hree Saturday on business and
returned that evening.
The officers of the Hustonville
cemetery met Saturday afternoon at
important business.
Mrs. Daniel Traylor of Stanford,
was up Saturday and Sunday with
her parents.
Steve Walker went to Lancaster
Sunday to bring back his wife and
daughter, who have been visiting rel
atives there for the past few weeks.
E. C. Hopper, president of the
Hustonville Clock Works, which are
now making a very favorable head
way is still holding forth at the Lit
erature corner of the National Bank.
Any one wishing to take stock in this
enterprise should call and see him or
T. L. Carpenter. The Commercial
Club should get behind this and see
what can be done.
John J. Brown, the Fork mail car
rier, has been awful sick of grip for
the past few days and he thought
he would not survive but a few days,
but we learn that he is showing a
great improvement and will soon -be
able to be out again:
Hunt up the petition for the road
bonds and sign it so it can be present
ed to the County Court Feb. 14, for
an election to be held 60 days after
wards. Everybody is for it up this
way.
John Stepp and son.of Carpenter's
Creek, was here Tuesday on business.
Squire Gann lost a valuable brood
mare last Sunday.
George Tucker last Tuesday for
Mt. Olive, where he expects to make
some large purchases of live stock.
Mack Peavyhouse is now busy
clearing ground on Adam's Hill, just
south of town, to grow tobacco.
Mail carrier John J. Brown was
able to be 'on his route Tuesday.
John Hicks started to school Mon
day, went a half day and then decid
ed to quite for a while.
J. P. Eads moved his household
goods Tuesday to Fayette county,
where he has rented a farm for this
year.
Hudson Bohon was here Monday
from Kidd's Store. His auto broke
down on him,, on his way home, and
was compelled to bring it into town
where Riffe & Williams furnished the
necessary repairs.
Yowell & Eads sold Sam McKin
ney, a work mule for $130.
Mrs. Tom Best of New Mt. Salem,
was the guest of her sister, Mrs. S.
T. Carpenter.
The show at the opera house Mon
day and Tuesday was said to be a
good one, by those who were fortu
nate enough to be present.
Dr. O. S. Williams went to Lex
ington Tuesday to take the examina
tion as automobilist.
Squire W. M. Fields is making
preparations for putting in a large
crop of tobacco, hemp, corn, etc.,
this year on the farm he purchased
of T. L. Carpenter last fall.
What Children Need Now.
In spite of the best care mothers
can give them this weather brines
sickness to many children. Mrs. T.
Neureuer, Eau Claire, Wis., writes:
"Foley's Honey and Tar cured my
boy of a severe attack of croup after
other .remedies had -failed. It is a
wonderful remedy for coughs, colds
croup and whoBfcing cough.'.' It stops
lagrippe coughs. 'Sold everywhere.
DRY BILLS TO
FRONT IN HOUSE
Drys Force Out of Hands of Commit-;
tee and Also Pass Sunday
Closing Bills.
The Drys Avere in the ascendency
in the House at Frankfort this week.
Early in the week, they took the
state-wide prohibition bill out of the
hands of the Committee on Alcoholic
Liquors, where the Wets had hoped
to keep it buried, and put it in the
calendar where it. will soon come up
for action by the House. The vote to
take the state-wide bill out of the
hands of the committee was won by
the Drys by 51 to 43. Representative
VV. G. Gooch, of this county, voted
against taking the bill out of the
committee's hands. Representative
Clay Kauffman, of Garrard, was
found voting with the Drys in favoi
of taking the bill from the commit
tee's hands. Considerable surprise
was occasioned by the vote of Rep
resentative Claude Minor of Boyle
county, who voted with the Wets
against bringing the bill out. Mr.
Minor had been counted as a Dry
man and came from one of the Dri
est sections Perryville anywhere.
It is understood that his constituents
are letting him hear from them in no
uncertain terms since his vote on this
question.
On Wednesday the bills offered by
Representative Greene seeking to en
act legislation which will force the
saloons of Covington and Newport
to remain closed on Sunday, were
passed by large majorities. Repre
sentative Gooch, of Lincoln, voted
for one of the bills, and against the
other. Gov. Stanley and the Admin
istration had felt out sentiment on
a State Excise Commission bill,
which would place control of all sa
loon licenses in the state in the hands
of a high-salaried board to be named
by the governor, but found sentiment
so strong against it that the bill was
not offered, and the Greene bills
went through sailing. The first of the
Greene bills provides that all places
where liquor is sold in violation of
law shall be considered common nui-
pa,ncff?nTTfi-.prouuCJ fui the tifttc-
ment oTsti'ch nuisances by injunc
tion. Upon the affidavit of three
credible citizens of any community
that such nuisance exists, the Attor
ney General of Kentucky is required
to institute an action to enjoin the
nuisance perpetually.
The other bill provides that any
saloonkeeper who violates the law
shall forfeit his license, and that no
such saloonkeeper shall ever be
granted another license. The most
drastic feature of the bill is the sec
tion which gives exclusive jurisdic
tion in all cases under the act to the
Circuit Court of Franklin county.
The Attorney General is required to
summon alleged offenders before the
Franklin Cfrcuit Court upon the affi
davit of two credible witnesses that
there has been a iolation of the law.
Either side may appeal from the
court to the Court of Appeals.
By a vote of 31 to 39, the House
acted favorably upon the bill to sub
mit the question of granting the vote
to women, at its Thursday's session.
The committee rendered an adverse
report on the bill but the House ad
vanced the bill by the yote named
over the committee's report. Repre
sentative Gooch, cf this county, vo
ted against the woman suffrage prop
osition, but Representative Kauffman
of Garrard, voted for them, as did .
Representative Wall of Casey. Repre
sentative Minor, of Boyle, was not
recorded as voting by the daily pa
pers. Gov. Stanley on Thursday signed
the anti-pass bill, which means that
public officials cannot secure favors
of this kind from railroads in the fu
ture. It does not become effective,
however, until the first of next Jan
uary. AUTOMOBILE.
model Maxwell Touring Car, for sale
cheap. Just bought in October and
is as good as new. A bargain. Would
not sell if I didn't own other cars. G.
C. Walker, Lancaster, Ky. 12-1
George S. Shanklin, president of
the Fayette Home Telephone Com
pany, at Lexington, and a prominent
leading citizen of that city, died sud
denly at his desk Wednesday.
This May Interest You.
If you suffer with pains in your
bacT: cr side, stiff and fore muscles -or,
joints, or rheumatic aches, or have
symptoms of kidney trouble such as
puffy swellings .under the eyes or
sleep disturbing bladder ailments
you should know that Foley .Kidney '
Pills have benefitted thousands in like
condition. Sold everywhere.
