t (Joining Water
dfl.W Pure
,'flovernm't Test
t:
h
emu tg i an Amic
Derning Air
100 per el. Pure
Breathing Test
A LIVE PAPER JN A J. I VE TOWN"
tOLl'ME XIV, NUMBER XXIV.
DEMINQ, LUNA COUNTY, NEW MEXICO, Ml HAY. FEBRUARY 11,
FIVE c r:TS THE copy
dtct ra::s m
.lompoiiyr
CaslnetsiMn, Through Chamber (
Cowwnoreo, Encourage Enlist
.. . mtfltt In National Guard.
CAPTAIN BROCK 18 ON THE JOS
t aaaaasasw aa.
KX tefere Congreu to Pay National
6nardtmen Sure to Pan, Says
Chairman Hay In Meisago.
Captain A. V. Brock is now busily
engaged in recruiting Company I of
I ho Xulionnl Oiiurd, unit in mooting
with fluttering success. A number of
(he best known young men in th city
have already enlisted, nnil ninny
others have signified llii'ir intention
(o do no, It jH Captain Brock's pur
nose- to mnko tlit company, not only
a crack military orgtinixntion, but the
Leading social and athletic body of
Derning. The nrmory, now in course
of construction, will offer every fa
cility for thin purHftp.
. Recruitment at Hum time is nccea
sarybeennse of the expiration of the
original 2-year Mdistnients. MoJl
if the members of the organization
remainiiifr here are rcenlisting : but
many vacancies have leeii caused by
removal from the state. Il is nec
essary to have the company fully re
rniled before March .1, the date set
for the Federal inflection.
The present almost universal sen
utent for prcui redness will undoubt
edly produce results beneficial to the
National (luard. Adjutant Oenera'l
ft. T. Herring ban been advised by
Chairman I fay of the house commit --
tea oh' military affairs that the Nat
ional Guard pay bill, which has been
,bVfore Congress for a number of
years, will nsa during this session.
yew, will pans during ibis session.)
-This measure will do more to build
l the National flunrd than all past
legislation has done.
The question of recruiting Com-
- pnny I whs the subject of discus
sion at a
Wherea Jab!! ptath! Heavan-H START llO.lft GJ
ly Father to take from us our beloved ' Ulfull UIMH Ull
rSTT1 KO AT Olli
Whereas, in the death of Sisiter
Morns, Ruth Chapter No.6, O. E. 8.
"A Modem WoodmanH
If you rciilly en re to see and en
joy n (mud play presented by local
people, go to the Crystal theater
next Wed. night, Feb. IM, and see
the eouicdy-ilrnmu in five acts, "The
! Modern Wnniliunii." riven under the
has lost one of its most faithful and! rithMs K.liu, atari. . Tk direction of Ellis fir,,.. in .,1.1. tin,..
... . . . . wvnn -naitetj VI B III W - -
nevuivn mcmncrs, ami Tlw relative' . , . . actors, ami under the aupice of I
nave iosi a I rue ana laithrul wife, -r " y
sister and daughter, therefore be it Engineer; Bridge . Stream
nesmvea, mat we extend to the be
TRUSTEES OF DOS
reaved relative and friends out
most sincere sympathy: that we
tread a copy of these resolutions)
on the minutes of the chapter and
I hat we publish a copy of same in
hrf-al papers.
Mollie Pennington
Alice Barracks
Fred Sherman
BatkotteM Sane Ton$it
This evening the Iteming High
School team will play the Las Cruces
High Kehooh team at the Crystal
theater. This will give the visitor
an opiKirtnnily to even up for the
drubbing they received last week .
After the game there will be a
dance at the Adelphi club, the visit
ors being the honored guest a.
SOUTH ROAD "UP IN THE AIR"
Petition Prewnted by Delegation
From Cohimbut Cause Matter
to go to the State Engineer.
iiiacocraiF
New Booetor Head Come Prom Pub
licity Department of Panama Pa
cific CxnttlUoR, ml It Woi Roe
emmended for Work AoeompJIfcd
It. A. Lune, formerly eastern pub
city agent for the Panama-Paeifle
F.xMwitim, waa Wednesday night
elected secretary of the chamber of
commerce at u meeting held in the
Hold avenue office. Mr. Laaa has
also been with the Alameda Ccmnty
(Oil.) Publicity Commiasion, He
has taken charge of the work here
and intend to folloar il viof0u4y.
- Mr. Lane haa outlined several pub
licity "stunts," hut has aot yet de
cided on a definite eourae.
The selection of a secretary be
came necessary when the enquiries
meting of the board oflK"" I""" ,,n V"" in?orm!,"0,J
The l.uiiu county road I (mini held
il meetMitt Monday afternooii at the
chamber of commerce fur the pur
sse of outlining road work for Hie
coining year. A financial statement
shows that 'the funds on hand amout
to at rifle more limn -J.',IMUi. This
includes the original if.'.'i.lMHl in road
bonds, 4.100 in road taxes and WO
in automobile licenses. The road
board has spent less than a thous
and dollars of its fumU in placing
existing roads of the county in repair.
The board has ordered that esti
mates for the construction uf a road
up the Mimbres river be made by the
county engineer. Three routes will
be surveyed what is known as the
"north" road by way of Dwyer, the
"middle road by l.iudaiier's ranch
and Coleson's farm, and the "south''
mad by Fnya-ood and Hpalding sta
tion. Them apt ronet ruction will b
on the route that has been determined
to In? the best ; hut this doc not menu
that the other roads will not re
ceive attention. The estimates will
include two crossing ami a bridge
over the river. Just where these will
he placed has not yet Is'cn deter
mined.
A delegation came up from Colum
hna last week to protest aitiiinst the
construction of a south road by way
of the east side of the Tres llcriiuuv
as mountains instead of along the old
gradw. The dalegiit insisted that
the road as originally projected i
the belter route, cheaper li nsimct
and serving the most ercii in the
"Gap." In view of this protest, the
Sunshine Camp No. ti'tiH, Koval
S'n'lilihiii s of America. A full house
is exiecled, ns nearly 'JllO sent' have
been sold in advance.
Great Council of Redmen
The Oreut I il (.f X,.w Mexioi
!ninrove.l Onlui- ..I' n...l.....n ...:u 1...1.1
AW QAPF PPflQQIK'f ,h0ir 'i"''' I'tnin'ir .Inr-
nOI tin! I I'llUOull'U convenlion of the X, w Mex
ico Cattle ami Horse flrowers' As-MM-ialion,
Feb. 2.1. The Drent
'At a Mettlng of the Board Monday ,',,l,'f ''""'e from nil over the
sihic. lotieiiicr with ilclccales from
'he subordinate Inlx-t.
A coniucllcc mi iirriinucinciits has
'"'en nppoinlcil by lliincliui'a TrilM-
N'o. 18, of Heiuiug to work with the
ORDERS CHANGE IN THEATER coinmillcc arrainiini! for the entile
! incus's conveiitioii.
Niijltt Railroad Required to
Place a Tower and Gates.
Don't forucl i hal the (lid Home
Sinters will lM. al the Crystal theater
next M,,nd.i niiit uiiiicr the mis-1 Hi Amusement Company Must Re
pice
lit' llll llolllillir Iti.rll Wa..li.i..l '
The price of tickets has In-i-n cut to
"' and "J.'ic mi on omit of the lyci
iiiii allractiniis coiniut; so close to
gether. It is ii rcfiilnr l uitruciion.
Look :il mil H g While Sale nil
Noi'ilhaiis' Miiniliiv.
I have a liycy.'le tlmt rides nil rivlil
for fll. F. C. I'ariish at the Ssit
Cash Store.
Von will lim! vnlncs n N'ordliinis'
White Sal.. - HcninniiiL' Motnluv.
TOT BffNG MADE 10 COt Ltd
POIl TAX FOR COUNTY SCHOOLS
Eiuhth Grade Promotion Examina
tions Will be Held in Various
District School Rooms of County
April 7 and 8 and May 5 and 6.
roie Row of Seau Down Center
Aisle of Princes Theater.
j ItciMilnr conclave of Mi-Hrortv
'oinmandery, K. 'I ., Tbursday eve
1 uing.
The matter of milking safe a cros
im: oM-r the railroad tracks on (i.ilil
avenue was taken up Moiiilav eve-
niim at the meeting of the hoard of
trustees of Dciuing. A. A. Tciuke,
i-ily clerk, was directed to write a
letter to the Southern Pacific Com
pany and the Atchison, Toickii, ami
Simla Fe itnilroiul Compiiny I'lillini; I
Until Chapter, (1. K. S meets next
Tuesday evening.
Special commiiiiiciitiiiu of the Mn--oii
c Loilge will Is- hcl.l loiimrrow
oeiiimr at 7 o'clock for work on
the tin ril ih-cj-rec.
W. K. Ilnnic.-. iruveliiit: ti-eiuhl nnd
I'lissengcr ii'JiMil ti.i On. Si, nil,, tii
'.icr'ie uiili licii,i.iiiii'iii s 111 Ttiscuri,
'I'.. I- I, II,,. , y ..,:,.
attention to the iniiileouncy of the
present method of attempting to se
cure safety by bells and flagmen and ,,..,.
li" the installation of sia-.fKtrAKA NN FN M fi N THF
STOCKMEN Of NEW MEXICO HERE
Secretniics of the various school
hoards of l.uiiu county hnve henii
Ixisy sisling notices to those liable
for poll tux within en.-h ili-trid. The
law reipiires the clerk of a school
i!Ulrid oh or before ilic first Momlnv
i i April to ilclicr to the
tivusiirer. 1 for each iiauic listed
mil lower ami gate... llic action was
lakeii in view of the tragic uci-iilcnt
of .Iniiiiiiiy 'J'J, when four is-rsons
lost their lives at the crossing.
The matter will lie taken up nun in
at an ndjoiirncd meeting Fclirtinryj
-I, when the railrouds are invited to
send representatives to consider thci
matter with the honrd. The trustees
expressed themselves as being wil-
linu' to cooperate with the railrouds'
and to consider nuv simgestions thev
Thousand of Delegates Will Gather
Here February 22 and 23 to Attend
the Sessions of the New Mexico
Cattle and Horse Grower Ass n.
The sccou.l iiiiiinal convention of
the New Mexico Cattle mid Horse
iniulit hnve to make to secure the Crowcr Association will meet in
safety of I lie public at the Hold live- Iteming Feb. un, o;t.
line crossing.. The entertainment committee, eon.
The hoard ordered the Hull Amuse- listing of fl. W. Iliitlierfnr.l, sH-re-
count v ! t oinpany to remove one row, lary of the assneiat'on, M. A. ord
: ol scuts down the center aisle of the luiiis, X
A. Itolieh, anil Arthur C,
The K-r cent of poll tax collected has I I'rinecss theater, holding that the Itnithel, made i trip Li Columbus
l een officially reporteil by cunlics j prc-ent aisle is tun narrow to mt- this week and report that they have
throufjlioiil the stale us follows: I '' of rapid exir. Tile hoard pniuU ured the Tliirtcciith I". S. Cavnlrr
iv eveninp, nnd the su.v. ."y'Pivp nwies soiitn or iiemiuu. The
iinnivimous in tender , lK,nrd refl,iMd thnt ' w ne?ry . Mur,i has pussol the matter up to
i- ii-.t, Th!,u ,4e,,,,r h nervieea of some one thc state eiiLnueer and noihiinr fur-
""ri i il . i :.. n i. .. ... . . "
company is reganled bv the ebandier u""w-l' "" I
of commerce as a useful public insti- j mmlttea chflrffed with theivisi,
direitors of the chamber of com- " , work ou the south road was halted
merce Snturdav eveninir. nnd the ?y ,h chmbr of commerce. The: twPVP m.;Ies south of Demiuu. The
members were
of sunuort to
I iner win ne none until lie makes a
! visit to this part of the state and set.
luiion, us iHissioiiiues ior pronim- - .... . . ..Lj i lie i tl in nil warrants lor tlicr -cr
.1 i ... i ,1 i ers for land that la to Im "givan when Knuiiur k'n.n. li iiiittlii lilil I
.ng ne mora. an., pi.ys.en, weu nr.... . - - - -- - , t. yet the t ruitw Ilce.e,
of IMiungs youg men are e rty ; ,."7 JL. I "I..". i . . ' '"" l ' hi,h
sim'U. and parents and employes nre : ' .-.. ....., m... n. ,.,.ssw, , ...h,.,.,,,,,,.. ,.,
-n-. - "-tig .and sider 1 i ft -
these .a-nefits Vfore ihung any.lung - 'v ZZ7 Road . iTlZ . Z . I -
o aiseouragi lisi is. . , ., - , .... . . - ;, . n, was iunelv-ceii ami ,
Knell man lioulil,
out that it WftuhJ lunkc'lhe aisle wide
cm, imh to permit two srsoiis in
walk abreast.
Curry HI, Colfax "li, Uiuiv 71,
Chaves 70. .MeK'iulcy 70 Lincoln tlh,
liianl "ill. Kildy oK, S ii'i'o .Vi, Saii-
ilovnl .H, Torrance .'I, Morn -17,
Woo-cvelt 47, Taos A', I'nion l.'t.
Otero III, (iuadaliiie .'IS, I, una .18,
iilcnewi ;!.". ISeriinlillo 8.', Kio Arriba
San .limn Hoiiii Ami '!0, Sun Tom Catron says hp has inaile good
Mend T.'., Santa Fe Jl. in the I uilcil Stales senate and will
This is' Iiii -eil on the leu M'r cent ask the voters of Xew Mexico to re-
pm ',y wairaiil to clleetors, am) turn him tu order that he may eontin-
hI a iiiiiiilicr of seerelaiies have lie his Hoik.
TOM CATRON WOULD LIKE
' TO KEEP SENATORIAL TOGA
Dane
The Misses Florence Tracy and
flrace Khrainnn gave a most delight
ful dancing ,,rty last Friday eve-!"" " "J" 1
ning ul thc home of Mis Tracy on; '
S. Copper avenue.
At a late hour a delicious ...course FINED ilgffJffP
luncheon was served, Hie color! KLILINB ARTELvrC HERC
scheme of red and white being ear-; Al Kimball waa fined 100 and the
ried out in the decorations. ; costs of the
Those present were: The Misses was arraigned before Judge
Alice Hii'l, Marion l.udlow, Hosie -t Rogers for the lulling of an antelope
Decker), Myrtle Williams, Isabel ' in I. una county. The complaint waa
win leave .ne cuy ia irw nays io noun iwiiirn mis Deen cnlleil to con
present the plan to middle western! sider the matter of connecting up the
j prosiective settlers. inter-county highways. There has
1 The contracts impose practically 1 been some difficulty in getting pmp
tbes nine burden on the settler as er cooM-rHlioii and as a cnncipicncc
the government doe on the holders both boards have feared to construct I
up to lite county lines for fear of get-1
per ecu I.
This was the gist of the senator's
aiilioiineenieiif fur reelection. Sciin-
taiiilaril lor Calnm says he has worked hard
for the stale and has hecn in the
senate lonj: enough to he in line for
appointment to ailvanceil position on
committees. He asserts
that the republicans will
i' nmxi-
itic-liair iiiipiiilaiil
if nee. In- belief
ling julo a "blind nlley.''
cs-iiiy, carry or semi poll tax o control h,. next congress,
the clerk of hi- ilistrict.
line district claims to he able to 0. E. 8. Club
I in H per cent, and that within The tl. F.. S. Club held its regular
a month. The interest in the school ,,.,.,.1.111. Tuc.ilav nftcnioon ns enet
Hist coiisnlcr r r,. I), (I Snoiluress at her home
Farmers' Meeting
The Mimbivs Valley Farmers Ho-
' of this district is iln
ul ii in. Can I. una ciiiinly s:o to the
'top in this mailer, ami check every
court Tuesday when be T1 ",,H '" rl'' rv-
d before Judge C. C. ",,.,r V Hondale
. ! name paid
Phillips, I-nediile Hixler, Anna Mc
Daniels, Marie Hixler, and the Mes
srs Paul Cox, Karl Cieolle, Carl
Deckert, flnnlcn Iingon, Claud
Dwyer, Jess Mitchell, Tony Rhr
mann. and Bertrnnd Ehrmann.
I have a girls' bicycle in apple-pie
order for $0. F. C. Parrish at the
Rpot Cash Store.
Patren' Club
. There will be a meeting of the Pa
tron' ('lub at :i o'clock in the after
noon of February 18 at the high
school building. There will be an in
teresting program, and light refresh
ments will be served.
Altar Society
The Altar Society of the church of
tne Holy Family elected officers at
the special meeting held lust Sunday
after aervicea. Father Joseph Car
net waa elected spiritual director.
Mrs. C. J. Lougbren, president, and
Visa B. M. Walter, secretary and
treasurer. Mrs. Paul Ncseh will sub
stitute for Mm. Ijiiughren, the latter
planning to he absent from the city
for some time.
We Are Twelve Club
The We Are Twelve Club will he
entertained this afternoon by Mrs.
Martha B. Ament at her home on
Granita avenue.
made by deputy gome warden T. U
Pal ten on Feb. 4. The defendant
plcndi-d guilty to the charge and paid
the flue.
There ia no open season for antel-'
ope in tbla state, owing to tne 01
school house, ; uen ino woman s uiiq
This club has grown in inlercsi and: The Hcmim: Woman's Club
ho. ..r o,cl i,r,,iii,,iy an interest iua meeting Monday
I hut Ihc ilislh.l school houses nre ."'-' at the home of Mr-.
on Coper incline. Tlicint'inliers are
niakinu' many hcaiilifiil articles of,
needlework w hile they enjoy the so-j
cial intercourse ot the club meetings.!
Mrs. Suoihircss served an ice course!
1,11ml and a I Mop from the same reg
iment of cavalry. The soldiers will
j'.ive exhibition drills nnd deiuon
; -Irate expert riiling for the henefir
f the thousands nf visitini; cow men
from all over Xew Mexico nnd other
eeli.nis ,. . S..lllhwi-l. Tile llallll
las lieen 11 wry ininli appreeiaieil
feature on tunny 1 eeosions in Dem-
IIL'.
There will lie many other nttme
I tiolis, however, besides the lroosi ne
tioiis. however. Iwsiiles troops, ac
icss sessions will take up mutters
f interest to Hi,, stockmen of the
tate. Tlicie will he two hit' ilam-fs
.Hid a hai'lieeiie. The Henriii; Chum-Is-r
of Commerce i. cooperaliie.' with
1 lie commitlcc in the work of nr-i-4iii;i
utr for Ihc cure and entert.'on
iiieiit of ill,, isilm-s. Ample accom
inodalioiis have hecn arranircd for.
Ml the railroails have vranted special
'.ill's.
The first conven:on met at Silver
l ily Inst year. Since that tiin.
flic mcmlitrship of lh(. association
has materially increased and the
cope of the nssoeint ion's work has
ik cwisc broiiileiieil, Xot less than
thn-e thousand are expected to nt-
held to the iiiciiiIhts and llieir guests,
eve- .
I. tl. Moir.
too small to a niamlat,, the intend- ' r'- Hickford nave an iiistruct-
ve talk on civic activities: sirs. Ilof
fntnii read a rcisirt on lihrarv work.
a nee.
Thc programs consist of discuss
The Golden Gossip Club
The fioldcn (iossip Club was dc
liiilitnlly enlcrtained Tuesday after
noon by Mrs. Frank Thurmond. The
ininUhing numbers of the herds tbat!h! ;Ai"H
once roamed over the Mlmbren Vnl-1 "f "" alry fw ere,
ley. The antelope are familiar lo ""fimeni a picnic
ions on many topics iiiersN-red T1"' ""'"'hers decided to present a yuesl- of the club were Mrs. Oeorgc
comic omtii. "ine rennani. cany in shepard, Mrs. T. F.. Milster, Mis
those that travel mneb over the val-
served by the women
The topic
iile.l a live-
dinner was
at the Inst
: tend the sessions.'
' In addition to th,. members of the
Xew Mexi U'unuixatiiiii, the com-
! initlis- reports that many prominent
j bankers iilcntilicd with the cattle in -!
diistry mid men in public life in the
: stale will In- present at the sessious.
March for the Is'iicfit of the lihrarv
Home talent alone will coiilrihule to
the production.
Ileal rice M. Walter. The afternoon Cnpl. T. F.
was sM'iil in hnving a pleasant so-: from Colunilma
Kvan motored up
yesterday to make
Jolly Five Hundred Club
ley, several being aeen together near! ""I'"' " ".,"7 ""'''h J-'J""-r
. ., , 1 The next meeting is to be held mi
Ln-nuug. . iw wminHinn m. nw ... .... .1 ......
tery of the prehiatorie peoplea that Mjm n 4 nl fh Mountain iew sch.sd Mrs Hamuuton McUnghlln enter- Silver Tea
-1 k. .ll. .k. ik. it,, house. lamed the Jolly Five Hundred (lub Mrs. ,w
mmuv piny naev ae asrc
antelope furnished a large part of ,
the food for these earliest inbabi- rum' "'".'"'""''.'f ';,f""r
t t(1 of the Thirteenth I . S. avalry at
Columbus, lias written friends hern
w a 'Columbus, has written friends lido.
Yauni reiki Club ,Bnl mt(.niH iu , rvming dnr-
The boys of tba Young Folka Club ing the sessions of the cuttlcman's
postponed their dance indefinatly, mnvention.
which waa to have taken place Fri-
day evening,
t R. li. Vallundigham, editor of the
Mn. Nora Rafferty Dead
Mrs. Xoru Rafferty, wife of Pat
rick Raffertv, died nt "J o'eha-k in the
j afternoon yesterday al her home on
tk. J 1 link UmuUv wmIiu nital sim-e the trnuic aeeideul ofjaii. "'"' ai'liue. rne was i.- years 01a.
Demimr Headlight, who has been re-
r.u- 1. It.,lt ... ik. kas. tnxmg ireaimcm at tne l.snl hos-
J. A. Club
cial lime. Mrs. Thurmond served . arrangements for the troop nnd bund
dainty refreshments. from the Thirteenth C. S. Cavalry,
which will furnish drills and music
for the delegates to the cattleman's
Mrs. Hen Larson ave tliA third of convention to be held here Feb. 22
yesterday afternoon nt her home on t, HPrips of si)ver Tona Wednesday j -:l-
South Xickel avenue. The guests of ..nemoon, which arc being given bv i
the club were M.s, II M. Peyton, ,. ., of thp Methodist church rnnrfk I eanu
Mr,. T. n. Ti.vi.ir ..mi Mr., k - .1 L tPwonn League
- .or . 11c ii.rKisc 01 aiu.ng ineir 11.1111.
Foulks. Mrs. (i. W. Itiilherlord made - 1 .,, ...! iiv .......
not forgcttimr to collect the silver of.
ferng for the fund.
the highest score. Itclu ioiis refresh
ments were served.
Ball
In
at her home on W. Mapia street. 27, is reported to be so far advanced 8I"' "n,p h,,, " h"",,h
(hily the members uf the elufc were rrry that his ,mvsicinns ' frm r",,forn'"-
. Ska .1. . At '
P . J:T w',Mn7 "Tr ho, he mav he able to leave the ho
made the highest score. Later dain- . '
Kelt P1"" lomorrow.
The bull to be given next Saturday
evening at Columbus by the officers
of the Thirteenth l S. Cavalry willjT,0 lWoniliIls
Im' Hllcuileil l.y a number of Iteming
soeiety Mople. Thc Misses Helen
SwoM-, Faye MeKeyes Margaret
Itandolph and Arthur Brock are
among those that will attend. Mrs.
Iv refreshments were nerved.
Monday evening thee lub will meet
with Miss (Catherine WameL
Mrs. Maggie Colt and son, Harlan.
, Word has been received here of Have Prior of the XAX ranch will
the death in Kl Paso Wednesday of also attend. "
Cart. Wnrrrn following an attack ot ,
pneumonia. Mr. Warren was general ic ( iiIIstsoii of Fierro cheeked in
Mrs, E. P. Cork will antortaui the visited ia the city yesterday, coming manager of the IHaan.n.1 A and Ite- at the Park garage Wednesday night.
Friday Bridge Qub today. np from Hondale. troit Cattle companies neir F.ngle. Ho went on by train to EI Paso.
1
The Kpworth League of the Moth-"
odist church will hold a special meet
ing and social session this evening at
the lions? of E. B. fiarria on Granite
avenue. A post office for the niail-ir-V
t valentines has been establish
ed at the (iarcia home. The program
will 'ncliule many interesting games.
and the refresh
ments will he suggestive of the val
entine festival.
Wednesday Bridge Club
Mrs. Frank Thurmond entertained
the Wednesday Bridge Club at her
borne on Pine street. Mrs. C J.
Iaughlin made the highest score.
The hostess served delicioua refreshments.
