THE RONAN PIONEER
nsmatter May 12, 1910, at the post- The Oldest Newspaper on the Flathead Indian Reservation
office at Ronan. Montana. under the Act of March 3, 1379.
VOL. VI. NO. 42. RONAN, MISSOULA COUNTY, MONTANA, FEBRUARY 11, 1916. $2.00 Per Ye
PROMINENT MEN
URGING DEFENSE
APPEALS for support of an ade
quate national preparedness
policy, voiced by half a dozen
speakers, featured a session of
the National Civic federation in Wash
ington. President Seth Low started
the discussion with the declaration
that "if the United States is to pre
vent the antagonisms and hates of Eu
rope and its age long traditions of cm
pire from finding lodgment on this con
tinent after the war it must be by
the strength of our own right arm and
by the willingness to die for what is
certainly precious to ourselves and for
what we believe to he no less precious
to humanity."
Whatever might be the outcome of
the war, Mr. Low said, its results could
not be less than revolutionary upon the
life of the world.
"If militarism triumphs," he added.
"the Americas, like Europe, must bow
their necks to the yoke of a militarism
which will give to the soldier rather
than to the citizen the domination of
the future."
Mr. Low said he favored the adumin
istration's defense program, not be
cause he thought it ideally perfect, but
because it was a long step in the right
direction.
"Personally," he continued, "I be
thieo that short service under the col
ors on the Swiss system, modified per
halls to meet our conditions, should he
required of every young man in the
United States and that we should no
longer depend upon an army which, as
Photo by American Preas Association.
BETH LOWS
tn England, strengthens the view that
it is the business ofi a few to protect
all rather than the business of all to
protect each) other.
"II no country. not even In the Unit
ed States," he said, "is the military
spirit less dominant than in Switzer
land. yet Switzeil'a nd, because she was
prepared. was ah!' to motlilie all her
men for the prote!-tion of her territory
as quickly as the most military na
tion, and because she was prepared she
has been ahlc to protect her territory
from violation from the outbreak of
the war until now. Engiand's navy
has proved her bulwark against attack
at home in this as in other wars, but
it is appalling to think how many of
her men have been sacrificed in fight
ing on the land because she was unpre
pared. And now, after suffering ap
palling losses, she is obliged to resort
to conscription.
"The lesson that seems to me to tie
upon the surface of the European sit
uation Is this--that Germany has
shown herself marvelously efficient,
because, though under an autocratic
form of government, she has made her
army thoroughly democratic in the
sense that it embraces the entire man
hood of the nation. This has resulted
in a spirit of loyalty to the country
and in the subordination of the Indi
vidual to the country's welfare, which
is the admiration and which ought to
be the inspiration of every nation in
the world. England, on the other
hand, in the name of democracy, has
not only permitted herself to be found
unprepared to cope with the problems
of her environment, but by adhering
to the system of a volunteer army she
has encouraged the development of
class interests as distinguished from
the spirit which unites the entire na
tion as one man for the protection of
everything that is vital to the British
empire.
"This amazing war has brought be
fore the eyes of the astonished world
no spectacle more amazing than that
of a member of the British cabinet
obliged, on the one hand, to plead with
British manufacturers not to take ad
vantage of their workmen on account
of the war and, on the other hand, to
plead with a body of workingmen not
to permit a union rule to jeopardize
the safkty of the empire."
Assistant Secretary Henry S. lBreck
iuridge of the war department, speak
ing in the place of Secretary Garrison.
detained in New York, assailed oppo
nents of preparedness in an address
to the woman's department.
SPOTTED FEVER GERM
DISCOVERED BY FRICK
Montana officials in attendance on
the meeting at Salt Lake last week of
- state and federal health officials, bring
- back word that Dr. L. D. Frick of the
public health service announced that
I he had discovered and segregated the
organism responsible for spotted fever.
Dr. Frick worked on it three years.
Guinea pigs were inoculated with the
organism and developed spotted fever.
Dr. Frick will now bend his energies
toward discovering a serum.
The organism is a protozoan, the low
est form of animal life. For a long
time it was thought the disease was
caused by a bacteria, which is the low
est form or vegetable life;
r It is asserted that this discovery may
lead to the segregation of the organism
responsible for other diseases which
have long baffled scientists.
OOUT FOR RE-ELECTION
IS GOVERNOR STEWART
O Tuesday morning's Montana daily
* papers contained the announcement of
s Governor Stewarts candidacy for re
election as governor of Montana. The
governor was very brief, saying:
"It is my present intention to submit
my candidacy in the forthcoming pri
mary. I am prompted to say this so
far in advance of the primary date in
order to answer the many inquiries that
ccme to me from day to day."
THE PASSING OF
PANCHO VILLA
Peace has at last come about be
tween the Carraiza government in
Mexico and representatives of the Villa
faction, which has been gradually dis
integrating since the recognition of the
Carrauza government.
The Carranzo de facto government
has agreed to grant general amnesty
to the leaders and followers of the
.VILLA AND . OE OF .I.S STAFF.
Villa faction. In return for amnesty
the Villa leaders turn over the aifairs
of local government in such districts
as they control to the Carrauza gov
ernment. The Villa troops, it is agreed,
are to be taken into the Constitutional
1st army an. are to fight against the
Zapatistas.
This pact marks the end of an epoch
and the beginning of anottear wtich
will be signalized with due pomp when
Carranza enters Mexico City and sets
to work at the reconstruction of alex
ico. For the moment interest attaches
to the flitting from the contemporary
stage of one of its most picturesque
characters, Pancho Villa, the outlaw,
who came within striking distance of
the preskiency of Mexico, the bandit
who developed into a military genius.
LIN(COA
"Now lie belo s~c ToThe es
I14
A.4
4/
COURT ACQUITS
TWO RONAN MEN
During the past week many of the
newspapers of the state have printed
the information that Hon. A. J.
Brower, senator from Missoula county,
with his brother-in-law, W. S. Hol
lingsworth, officers of the Ronan State
bank, had been arrested by the sheriff
of Lincoln county, charged with violat
ing the state game laws by killing
more deer than the law allowed. The
Pioneer refrained from making any
mention of the fact, prefering to wait
until the case was tried before publish
ing anything in connection therewith.
The facts in the case as developed at
the trial of Mr. Brower held in Libby
last Saturday, were that neither Mr.
Brower nor Mr. Hollingsworth were
guilty of the charge and both were
dismissed.
The county attorney of Lincoln coun
ty placed four witnesses on the stand
and not one of the four connected Mr.
Brower with the offense charged, that
of killing more than two deer while
hunting in Lincoln county during the
fall, and after hearing their testimony
a motion was made by the county at
torney that the case be dismissed. The
county attorney stated in making this
motion that he was absent from Libby
at the time the complaints were filed
and knew nothing of the evidence ex
cept what the witnesses had testified
to in court and wished to exonerate
Mr. Brower. The court allowed the
motion and dismissed the case. The
case against Mr. Hollingsworth was
then called and the county attorney
made a similar motion in this case and
Mr, Hollingsworth was dismissed with
out the taking of any testimony.
Thus ended the much heralded and
widely published case against Mr.
Brower.
After the case had been dismissed
the republicans of Libby and Lincoln
county gave a dinner in honor of Mr.
Brower to show him that his friends in
that part of the state rejoiced in his
vindication. It is stated that the din
ner was "some dinner."
When Mr. Brower was first arrested
the daily papers of the state published
the statement that the game wardens
were going to show the senator from
Missoula county that they were vigilant
and were after violators of the game
law, in order to refute the senator's
statement in the senate during the last
session of the legislature, that they
were not earning their money. Evi
dently politics were being played.
In this connection it may be stated
that Senator Brower did introduce a
bill in the last legislature to abolish all
deputy game wardens and made a
speech in tha senate in advocacy of the
bill. This may not have been the ani
mus of the case, but it will require
evidence to remove the suspicion that
it was.
For Higher Wages
The four large organizations of rail
way employees, the Brotherhood of
Locomotive Engineers, the Brother
hood of Locomotive Firemen and En
ginemen, the Order of Railway Con
ductors and the Brotherhood of Rail
road Trainmen, have combined in a
nation-wide movement for a general
advance in wages for their members,
and other employees of the same
classes, on all the railways of the
United States and some of those in
Canada, including 280,000 miles of line.
The movement involves about 300,
000 men. According to the statistics
of the Interstate Commerce Commis
sion, there were employed in the
United States in 1914, 61,365 engineers.
64,335 firemen, 47,621 conductors, and
135,853 trainmen. The average wages
per day of these employees in 1914
showed. the following increases over
those paid in 1903; Engineers, 30 per
cent; conductors, 32 per cent; firemen,
41 per cent; trainmen, 42 per cent.
The suggestion that there be a na
tional chamber of agriculture estab
lished will be variously received by the
interests involved. There have been
many associations of one kind or an
other formed to improve our agricul
tural methods, some of which are ef
fective in special spheres. The depart
ment of agriculture is treated as a joke
by the few, yet its services have been
such that the mass will agree that the
principle is one worthy to be extended.
This might be done by a national
chamber made up of delegates repre
senting all sections and all classes, as
fruit, grain, vegetable, meat and seed
growers and so on. Even labor would
be looked after. The department of
agriculture can merely experiment and
advise. The chamber could often. by
combination, secure tryouts on a scale
to convince doubters and lead to uni
formity which would be beneficial.
I Man hunts best in company.
PRE-LENTEN DANCE
BY RONAN SCHOLARS
Since the Ronan Pioneer has so cour
teously offered to print our school notes
every week, we take this means to
reach our friends both in town and
country.
Because such a large percent of our
pupils come from the country it is nec
essary that some form of amusement
be provided for them for the noon hour
and recess periods. In order to pro
vide the necessary play ground and
equipment, funds must be raised.
Hence the school, the teachers and the
pupils ask the earnest co-operation and
help of the patrons and friends of the
school, both in town and country to
help raise the money to carry on the
work. We feel that this work is not
merely a school affair, but rather a
community work. It is far-reaching
in its benefits, since the most imper
ative demands are for the children not
living in town.
After a careful consideration of the
matter it has been decided to give a
pre-Lenten dance for this purpose.
The dance will be held in the Ronan
opera house on Saturday, March 4.
In order to make the affair a success
both socially and financially, we ask
for your generous help and patronage.
Committee.
TESLA'S DEVICE
FOR PREPAREDNESS
Nikola Tesl , the inventor, winner of
the 1915 Nobel physics prize, has filed
patent applications on the essential
paits of a machine the possibilities of
which test a Inyman's imagination and
promise a parallel of Thor's shootlin
thunderbolts from the sky to punish
those who had ingered the gods.
Suitice it toi sey that the destruct le
invention will go through spece with
a speed of O00) nitles a second, a tiiin
less airship without propelliug engine
or wings, sent ny clietrilciy to any ne
sired polit in tile glob+e ., .au
of (lestiructloui, If destiuiti'au its n ly
tile (or wishes to e0tt70l,
s Ten miles or a thousattd miles, it will
it be till the same to the imacihine, the ihi
NIKOLA TEBLA.
ventor says. Straight to the point, on
laud or on sea, it will be able to go
with precision, delivering a blow that
will paralyze or kill, as is desired. A
man in a distant tower could shield a
city against ships or army by working
a lever.
"It is not the time," said Dr. Tesla,
"to go into the details of this thing. It
is perfectly practicable to transmit
electrical energy without wires and
produce destructive effects at a dis
tance. I have already constructed a
wireless transmitter which makes this
possible.
"The art is already so far developed
that great destructive effects can be
produced at any point on the globe de
termined beforehand and with great
accuracy. In view of this I have not
thought it hazardous to predict a few
years ago that the wars of the future
will not be waged with explosives, but
with electrical means."
Dr. Tesla then said that it would be
possible with his wireless mechanism
to direct an ordinary aeroplane, man
less, to any point, over a ship or an
armny, and to discharge explosives of
great strength from the base of opera
tions.
The water wagon appears to be one
of the vehicles of war now insisted
upon.
The provisional government Mexico
needs is one tiat will lill tile market
WAS THE PERSIA
AN ARMED VESSEL?
One of the most perplexing phases
of the sinking of the P. and O. liner
Persia is the fact that the Persia
nmounted one 4.7 inch gun. This was
disclosed in a dispatch from United
States Consul Garrels' statement at
Alexandria, Egypt. The consul, how
ever, did not state where the gun was
mounted. The Hague convention pro
vides that a merchant ship may carry
a gun mounted on the stern for pur
poses of defense without being con
sidered an armed ship.
The application of the principles of
interintional hI w to tile limited arm
Photo by American Press Association.
STERN OF IiRITTRH 31IERCHIANT VESSEL
CAIIIYINGI SMALL ARMAMENT.
ing of merchant vessels has been de
fined by our state (lepairtnteut Is foli
lows:
A mericrhant vessel of ilitgerent nation
aiity tiny curry tn amoiiiuntiit and ammu
nitiin for the sole purpose of defense
without natuiring the clii cter of a shin
O1 Wiii,
'I'ho prr$eien of n arnmament taid .ni
mniitiin on hdiiii Ii mnerchanl vessel V
utes a prlesumpl t ili (lust the arin rnllent is
fur offensive purposes, but the owners or
igints m17y overicoe tlii presumptlon ibp
evjileiire showing* tint the vesse- carriet
anannsolely for defense. ''
" * * '1'ie rp'iuit of th lay stigation
usnit show cinelusive y tham tie artia
ment was not intended for and will not
te used in ofVfnsive operations.
It Is explained that the ctlibehl 0
the gluns tintist not exceed six ill
that they be few In number and t a
no gnus shall be mnonnted on a for
ward plirt of the vessel.
Against the application of these gen
oral rules (lie Geruuni foreign otice
filed a protest and took the position
that a merchant vessel is not permit
ted to defend itself against a war ves
sel untilflihat a distinction could not be
made between defensive aniid offensive
I ra iitmi eiit.
'I'he ottliciai nii here is that the
question of whether a g.u was mount
ed on lie I'ersia will deilind entirely
on' wiire It was placed. If mounted
forward oflicials realize that a conten
tion can lie wade thalt the Persia was
anied for destruction of submarines
and had instructions to rain or destroy
the submarines.
While the present freight tieup has
been caused in a small way by the lack
of ships sailing from our harbors, it is
mainly caused by a shortage in cars
with which to handle the enormous
shipments of goods going to the other
side. This shortage has resulted in
nearly every railroad running into
New York placing all embargo against
consignments to that port for export.
Lack of proper terminal facilities has
also added to the confusion, and thou
sands of cars are shut up in the city,
with little prospect of unloading until
they have remained locked up indefi
nitely. It was fortunate for the coun
try that the railroads were at least able
to maintain their normal equipment, in
cluding the thousands of freight cars
which for a long time remained idle
before the war orders began to arrive.
It is a pity, however, that the roads
could not finance themselves better, to
enable them to take care of the pres
ent extraordinary volume of freight
intended for export. Until they are
able to provide more revenue and set
aside a sufficient surplus to carry on
development even during lean years
there is likely to be a recurrence of
the present trouble.
A submarine often proves as deadly
to its crew as to the ships it attacks.
When a man tells you that nothing Is
impossible ask him to demonstrate it.
Each of those Carpathian passes
seems to be a Thermopylae all by it-
