ELEVENTH YEAR. No. 34.
IS ON NEW LIFE
ENTHUSIASTIC MEETING OF THE
COMMERCIAL CLUB.
OFFICERS FOR YEAR ELECTED
Tt Hold a Get-Together Meeting and
Luncheon Next Thursday Night
All Espeeted to Attend.
A well attended and very interesting
meeting of the Commercial Club was
bebl in the library building last Thurs
day evening, and more enthusiasm in
the work of the club was manifested
than for some time past. For the last
few months, on account of weather
conditions, no doubt, this organization
has been in rather a moribund state,
but the near approach of spring, and
the bright prospects of a lively sum
mer, has galvanized the club into new
life and activity. And now let it con
tinue revivified. A number of new
names were added to the roster, and it
is hoped that every live business man,
professional man and resident In town
or in the vicinity, will come into the
fold and take part in the good work
that such an organization can, and
does accomplish. The membership
should be so universal that the absence
of one’s name from the list of mem
bers should be looked upon as a mark
of reproach.
The principal business transacted
last Thursday evening was the elec
tion of officers for the ensuing year.
The presidency was aawed off on Dr.
D. H. Lewis, who has made such a live
and efficient presiding officer during
the past year. Other selections were as
follows: Vice-president, L. L. Work;
secretary, E. R. Hoose; treasurer, O.
L. Armstrong; trustees, W. O. Ham-
Isch, J. P. Frlis, F. M. Dallam, A. P.
Murray; executive committee, Roy
Vincent, J. A. Blackler, C. A. Powell,
L. H. Prentice.
Several subjects of importance to the
town and country were discussed. It
was decided to hold a luncheon on
Thursday evening, February 17, at
which time, every active member and
all who may desire to become members
are invited and urged to attend, the
former are expected to be present; the
latter will meet with a hearty and
fraternal welcome.
In this connection it may be said
that the province of the Commercial
Club is not altogether local, that its
mission is not confined solely to affairs
pertaining immediately to the town.
Its objects have a wider scope, and for
that reason the residents of the sur
rounding country are cordially invited
to join the organization and participate
iu its proceedings. The aims of the
club are broader than the mere cover
ing of those objects that pertain to the
upbuilding of the town. It is recogniz
ed that it the country is not settled up
and improved, there is no hope of the
town growing. The prosperity of the
one depends on the prosperity of the
other. The town people are equally
interested, therefore, in the progress
and development of the adjacent coun
try. The two elements should work
harmoniously together to a common
end, the betterment of both the coun
try and the town. Their interests are
corelative, and to insure and hasten
attainment the people of the town and
country should work hand in hand for
their individual and collective good.
A live commercial club yields an in
fluence beyond what the man who has
given the subject no thought can pos
sibly realize. It Is the active principle
of the old saw, “In union there is
strength.” Already the local club has
made itself felt In more than one in
stance, and if people will only har
monize, lay aside and for the time for
get any personal differences, and pull
together In harness, the Orovllle Com
mercial Club is going to be a forceful
factor in beneficial accomplishment
for both the town and the surrounding
country.
A TWO TIMES LOSES.
The most trying, disagreeable and un
pleasant trip that a high school team
representing any kind of sport ever
made In this county fell to the lot of
the Oroville high school basket ball
team that left here last Thursday
at noon for Conconully and Okanogan,
and returning reached home at 1:30
p. m. Sunday. It was a tough exper
ience. and tlie boys did not even have
the satisfactory glow of victory to
compensate them in some degree for
the hardships they encountered.
The team composed of Cbas. Cole,
Harlan Fuller, Joe Ashby, Winfred
Hair, Lawrence Dallam and Frank
Ford, in charge of Prof. W. Leonard
Davis, left Oroville on the delayed
train that pulled out about noon
Thursday. Reaching Okanogan about
2 o'clock the party started at 3 for
Conconully. Owing to the condition of
the roads the lads earned their pas
sage by walking a portion of the dis
tance. They did not reach their desti
nation until 8:30 o'clock, tired, worn
out and half frozen. They went on the
floor in no condition to do themselves
justice, yet had there been the least
symptoms of honesty and fairness in
the referee the game would have been
won by the visitors. As evidence of his
eagerness to discover the errors of the
visitors and overlook the short com
ings of his friends and associates this
referee called fourteen fouls on Oro
vllle and only four on Conconully. To
make the robbery more glaring, after
time was up, and the score stood 19 to
18 in favor of Orovllle, the referee
called a foul on Cole as he was dribb
ling the ball, a most palpable injus
tice. The referee took this means of
letting the Conconully team tie the
score, giving Conconully another
chance of live minutes. It was a bold
stroke, but won, for the foul was
thrown, and in the subsequent five
minutes Conconully made five points,
finally winning by a score of 24 to 19.
From Conconully the team drove
back to Okanogan, playing there Fri
day evening taking a well administered
trouncing to the tune of 37 to 25. Oka
nogan played a fast game and the team
work was the best seen this season.
The Orovllle boys were not in a condi
tion to do their best but they were
outplayed and Okanogan won on merit
solely.
As under new arrangements made
after the team had left home there
was no prospect of a train north un
til Monday a sleigh was engaged to
convey the party to Orovllle. In order
to get the boys back home as soon as
possible a vehicle was engaged here
Saturday to drive down and meet (he
returning party on the road. With a
brilliancy that well fits him for high
position in the democratic depart
mental service, the man entrusted with
the rescue team drove only ns far as
Tonasket, and instead of going on. as
instructed, or waiting at Tonasket for
the belated travelers, he turned around
and drove back to Orovllle. The ball
team arrived at Tonasket shortly after
the departure of the Orovllle vehicle,
had to remain over all night and did
not reach home until 1:30 p. m. Sun
day.
There will he no return game with
Conconully, as that team refuses to
come to Orovllle, although Prof. Davis
offered to pay all expenses. This is
hardly the proper high school sport
ing spirit, and the Conconully high
should be ruled out of all future coun
ty sports.
Several at the Cotatoonully schofil
boys, witnesses of the game, stated to
members of the visiting team after the
game that their club won, but not on
the square.
The boys have nothing but words Of
praise for the members of the Con
conully and Okanogan teams, and the
treatment received through their
hands. They were kindly, courteous
and hospitable. That is the true
sportsmanlike spirit, always promin
ently developed In manly lads.
The hoys do not feel that the town
people of Orovllle os a whole show the
proper spirit of loyalty when they
compare the attendance at games at
home and abroad. Par larger crowds
turn out at games in neighboring
towns than are to bo seen at home
games.
Local admirers of the home team
should take Into consideration that the
c efeats on the trip were no disgrace
to the players. The games were played
after long, cold rides, leaving the boys
in no condition to do their best, be
sides one of the most aggressive and
best members of the team was unable
to take part. That proved a serious
1 andicap.
As an indication of loyalty to team
membership, and the readiness to rec
ognize merit in individual players,
those who took part In the games dt
not hesitate to declare that If Aubrey
McMahan had been in condition and
with the team both games would have
been won. He Is a strong factor in the
organization, and while his aggressive
offense and able defense might not
have changed the result at Okanogan
It is pleasant to note the confidence
that his associates have In him, and it
is that confidence that add* to the effi
ciency of the entire team when ha is
on the floor.
After their rough and tough exper
ience the boys returned home well
tired out, but physically fit.
A team In any line of sport cannot
be expected to win every time, and
two defeats in six games Is not a
tad record.
The following is an interesting hard
luck story that Jimmie Jackson, of this
place, speeled off to a reporter of the
Spokesman-Review the other day:
A. J. Jackson, stockman of Oroville,
who is at the Pacific after bringing a
carload of hogs from the Okanogan
country to Carstens Packing company,
to whom he sold his hogs at from 7
cents to 7 1-2 cents per pound, live
weight, had an unfortunate experience
three weeks ago. He wanted to ship a
carload of hogs from Molson to Seattle,
but owing to the storm conditions pre
vailing the Great Northern railroad of
ficials kept him waiting at Molson ten
days before they would accept the ship
ment. When he did get started the big
snowslide in the Cascades blocked the
line completely and he was compelled
to unload and feed his stock at We
natchee. Finding in four days that the
prospect of getting through to the
coast was worse than it was when he
started, he shipped his hogs back here
and sold them. He had been 19 days
on the road altogether, so that the ex
pense for feeding made the trip highly
unprofitable.
Dribbles.
AN UNPROFITABLE BUY.
ENCOUNTER MORE ORE
THE IVANHOE MINE PROVING TO
BE VERITABLE TREASURE BOX
ANOTHER FINE LEDBE CUE
Important Improvements In Contem
plation that Will Pat New Life
In Mining Industry,
Word was received at Orovllle from
the Ivanhoe Wednesday, by telephone,
that the workmen had just broken in
to another fine, strong ledge of ore,
similar in character to that already
encountered in the tunnel, which
means that the ore Is highly mineral
ized and carries good values. This
strike Is about 100 feet beyond the
last ledge encountered, and goes to
show that there are numerous paral
lel veins on the Ivanhoe group. Before
this last strike, the Ivanhoe was al
ready a mine In every sense of the
word, with enough ore in sight to keep
a large treatment plant in operation
indefinitely. This new strike is merely
a matter of gilding refined gold, ad
ding value to an already very valuable
proposition in the way of a real mine.
All this ore is cut at a vertical depth
of 2000 feet, which means an enor
mous tonnage of ore above to slope
out, with probably a greater tonnage
beneath. This discovery in the Ivanhoe
after two years spent in steady devel
opment work has established beyond
all further cavil the mining possibili
ties and weath of this upper country,
and will have a great Influence in re
newing confidence and activity in the
Okanogan properties.
It is learned that W. B. McChesney
to whose indomnttable energy and bull
dog perslsteucy Is due the happy re
sults in the Ivanhoe mine, is to estab
lish KW office at Nlghthawk for the
next two months at least, so as to be
on the railroad and in a position to
carry op business connected with the
mining operations and have charge of
other improvements in contemplation
to the very best advantage. There Is
every reason to believe that these con
templated improvements include the
building of a spur from the railroad
near Indian Edwards’ place, to the
mine, and the erection of a large treat
ment plant on Palmer lake, both of
which will be necessary in order to
make the Ivanhoe a payer.
Besides the underground work In
progress at the mine an assay office
has been erected, equipped with a com
plete assaying outfit and will be in
charge of a capable assayer. This Is a
necessary feature at this stage of the
proceedings in order that the manage
ment may have correct knowledge of
the values in the ores extracted.
A CRIPPLED SERVICE.
The fresh storms of last week put
the finishing touches on the paralysis
of transportation. Heavy snow fall and
accompanying slides had already de
moralized traffic, and the new invoice
heavier than any proceeding one, fairly
demoralized and discouraged the rail
road officials. Train service on the
main line during the past week was
all gummed up. When a train did man
age to start out it was never known
just how far it would go. It was a
situation to set the officials fairly cra
zy. The blockade has worked a great
hardship on the traveling and shipping
public, but the railroads cannot be
held responsible for an Interposition
of Providence. It is the most serious
elemental disturbance for years, and
no foresight could have averted the
trouble that lias been confronting
transportation companies since the be
ginning of the new year. The protract
ed tie up has cost the railroads an
enormous amount of money directly, to
say nothing of the loss of business.
Every means at the command of the
railroad people have been enlisted to
keep the tracks clear and trains run
ning somewhere near on time.
The Oroville-Wenatchee branch has
been hard hit as well as the main lines.
So much snow has fallen In the south
part of the county, accompanied by
winds, that the task of keeping the
track clear has been beyond power of
the force engaged, or any force that
might be engaged for that matter. For
weeks there lias been no certainty rel
ative to service on the branch. The
last train pulling out of Orovllle last
week was the one that loft here on
Thursday, about noon, and it met with
many difficulties reaching Wenatchee.
There was not another train over the
line up to the time this paper goes to
press. The worst feature of the situa
tion is that the company has been com
pelled to return to the old schedule of
three mixed trains a week over the
branch, and if the winter does not let
up pretty soon even that now and then
service may be reduced to even fewer
runs. The new arrangement, or return
to the old-order of things, was made
necessary by a shortage of fuel oil,
which is supplied from the coast, and
Is said to be only temporary. However,
as floods can naturally be expected to
OROVILLB, WASHINGTON. FEBRUARY, 11, 1916.
follow the heavy snow fall there is no
way of telling when daily service can
be resumed. The following mandate
issued out of the superintendent’s of
fice to agents along the branch is no-
tlflcation of the change in train sched
ule:
Spokane, Feb. 3, 1916.
To all agents:
On account of shortage of oil due to
snow blockade it will be necessary,
starting tomorrow, to inaugurate a
mixed train service on Wenatchee-
Orovllle line, leaving Wenatchee at 7
a. m. Mondays, Wednesdays and Fri
days, and Orovllle at 7 a. m. Tuesdays,
Thursdays and Saturdays. Same
change on the Mansfield branch. This
to remain until conditions become nor
mal.
F. D. KELSEY,
DEATH OF MBS. BODEV.
One of the saddest and most regret
table deaths that has occurred in Oro
vllle for a long time was that of Mrs
Bessie May Bodey, wife of that well
known locomotive engineer, A. E
Bodey, who has bad a run out of this
station for some time. Mrs Bodey died
at St. Joseph’s hospital nt 2 o’clock
Saturday afternoon, where she had
been taken from her home some days
before for treatment. The lady had
been quite ill for some weeks, but the
immediate cause of death was hemor
rhage of the brain. She seemed stron
ger and in better spirits Saturday
morning than she had been for days,
but suddenly collapsed in the early
afternoon and died within a few min
utes.
The deceased was born in Wyoming
January 26, 1880, and hence her age
was 36 years and 11 days. She leaves
a husband, three children and many
friends in this comipunity to mourn
her untimely death. No services were
held in Orovllle. The remains were
prepared for shipment, and Tuesday
morning were taken to Vancouver,
Washington, where burial will take
place under the direction of the East
ern Stare, of which order she was a
prominent member.
During her residence in Orovllle
Mrs. Bodey made many friends who
loved and admired her for her kind
ness of heart, her amlbility, for all
those endearing virtues that make for
a womanly woman. Her death is sin
cerely mourned and regretted by all
who had the Jmowing her
in life. She was a devoted wife, a lov
ing guide and counselor to her chil
dren and a kind and sympathetic neigh
bor. The sympathy of one and all in
the community goes out to the strick
en husband and motherless children
in this hour of their deep affliction.
THROWN ON THIS COUNTY.
Last Thursday evening Blanche
Barnett, alleged to have been a sport
ing woman, arrived on the Princeton
train from Hedley, almost at the point
of death. She came through on a
stretcher. None of the doctors here
were notified of her coming, but Dr.
Lewis was summoned upon her arri
val. The stricken woman was taken to
St. Joseph’s hospital, and upon exam
ination the doctor found that the pa
tient was suffering from dropsy of
the heart, pronouncing the case hope
less. Everything was done for her
that was possible both as to treat
ment and attention, but she died Sat
urday morning. The remains were
turned over to Undertaker Barnes, and
the body is still at the undertaking
parlors awaiting the action of the
county authorities as to its disposition.
The case is one in which the provin
cial authorities at Hedley are held re
sponsible for throwing upon this coun
ty. The patient was accompanied to
Orovllle by one of the girls attached
to the house with which the dead wo
man was connected. According to the
statements made by her the deceased
had been a sufferer from the ailment
that proved fatal for the past two
years. Her condition becoming alarm
ing, she was shipped to the hospital at
this place. The woman had only some
S2O when she left home, but consider
able baggage, some of which is held by
the customs officer at Chopaka. The
girl accompanied the invalid to the
train with no intention of coming to
Orovllle, but the constable at Hedley
insisted upon her making the trip, and
secured her a ticket for that purpose.
The girl returned to Hedley Saturday
morning. The afflicted woman stated
that she had a husband who was at
Rossland the last time she hoard from
him and the immigration officers at
this place made every effort to get in
communication with him by wire with
out success. The official at Hedley is
roundly denounced for being a party
to the removal of the woman from
British Columbia into this state in the
condition that she was when placed
upon the train.
A SERIOUS TIE-UP.
The first train through from We
natchee since Wednesday night ot last
week arrived Wednesday night of this
week. Snow was not. alone the cause
of this long delay in service. A train
started from Wenatchee Monday, but
just south of Malott the rails spread
and the train was thrown into the
ditch. Fortunately no one was injured.
Working crews had to be sent up from
Wenatchee and it was not until Wed
nesday morning that the train was got
back on the rails. There were 37 pas
sengers on the train when it was stall
ed and they were taken back to We
natchee. The train pulled out south
Thursday morning, but as more snow
bad fallen Wednesday night it is very
doubtful if it reaches its destination.
SHIPPING MUCH SALTS
STEWART-CALVERT CO. NOT DIS
COURAGED BY WEATHER.
OUTPUT TWENTY IONS PER DAY
Product Is Being Crushed, Sacked and
Shipped from Here to Far East
ern Markets.
There is an Important industry at
this place that the severe weather of
Ihe past winter him not materially
Interfered with, and that la the opera
tion of the Stowart-Calvert company,
that owns and controls the two salts
Kikes near Orovllle. In (lie very coldest
weather the company was doing some
thing, and during the past week the
activities have been greater than at
any time since the gentlemen became
interested in the project. The company
it taking advantage of the freeze up
to extract as much sails as possible,
because with the breaking up of winter
the lakes will be covered many feet
deep with surface water. At present,
all extraction is concentrated at the
Rayburn Spotted lake, on Kruger
mountain, across the line In British
Columbia and some ten miles from
Orovllle. A dozen two and four horse
wagons are hauling in salts every day
from that, lake, and the deliveries
amount to some 20 tons daily. It is
necessary to cut tlnough almost 24
inches of ice In order to reach the salts
deposit. Under the Ice the salts are in
a crystallzed slate. It Is scooped out
Ir slabs and loaded into wagons in
bulk. The salts itself, does not freeze
solid.
The deliveries are made at the Oro
vllle Commercial company's warehouse
on the railroad tracks, where an enor
mous amount of the.salts have accu
mulated. As It comes to the warehouse
i is in large crystallzed chunks, and
ii that, condition it could not be sack
ed or shipped. In order to prepare it
for shipment the Stewart-Calvert com
pany have Installed two crushers that
are operated with efeclric power. Prob
ably it would be more proper to say
that one of the mills is a crusher and
the other is a pulverizer, for the salts
is first run through an ice crusher,
which reduces the crystals to small
size and a belt carries the salts to an
other mill, or pulverizer, which re
duces it almost to powder. From this
last treatment the salts flow directly
into a sack, which is fitted like sacks
are attached to a threshing machine.
When a sufficient number of sacks are
filled they are loaded upon cars and
shipped to the eastern market, and the
market is prepared to take all that the
company can supply.
This work of salts extraction prom
ises to be a permanent as it is a very
important industry, at Orovllle, be
cause the quantity is inexaustlble and
the quality is such as to command a
ready market for all that can be de
livered. The work of extraction, hand
ling, treatment and shipping gives em
ployment to a large number of men,
that provides a steady and certain
monthly pay roll for the town, and
that is something that. Is of direct
benefit to every branch of business.
The Stewart-Calvert, company is here
to stay. The company have made large
investments and extensive improve
ments. That is the very best feature
of tlie proposition, and it means that
the extraction of salts is to continue
indefinitely. The Stewart-Calvert peo
ple have put up money willingly and
are taking the chances of making this
venture a paying one. For their enter
prise they deserve success, and that is
what this paper wishes them, or any
other company that starts a legitimate
Industry in good faith.
DURAL CARRIER EXAMINATION
The United States Civil Service com
mission has announced an examina
tion for the county of Okanogan, Wash,
to be held at Okanogan, on March 11,
1910. to fill the position of rural carrier
at Oroville and vacancies that may
later occur on rural routes from other
post offices in the above mentioned
county. The examination will be open
only to male citizens who are actually
domiciled in the territory of a post of
fice in the county and who meet the
other requirements set forth in form
No. 1977. This form and application
blanks may be obtained from the offi
ces mentioned above or from the U.
S. Civil Service commission at Wash
ington. D. C. Applications should be
forwarded to the Commissioner at
Washington at the earliest practical
date.
The above examination is for the
purpose of securing a rural mail car
rier to take charge of two mail routes
running out of Oroville, which are to
be served on alternate days. No. 1 route
extends up into the Ellemeham country
the carrier going up the hill by the old
Wanlcut and Loomis road and return
ing by the new road that comes in by
the bridge across the Similkameen.
No. 2 is the route south. The carrier
goes down on the east side of the Oka
nogan river, crossing at the Ellls-Porde
Orchard tracts, and returns on the
west side of the river. The same car
rier is expected to handle both routes,
covering No. 1 one day and No. 2 the
next. This service is to commence on
the Ist day of May. People living along
these routes who desire to be served
by carrier are expected to have their
boxes In place by the 20th of April.
There is one condition upon which the
continuation of these routes depend,
and that Is, there must be at least 75
families served on each routf. If the
number falls below 75 the service will
be suspended, and it is presumed it one
route falls in providing the necessary
number of families both routes will be
cut off. Now it is up to those interested
In and anxious to have these rural de
livery routes established and main
tained to exert every effort to obtain
75 patrons. It is understood that a
bachelor, keeping up a home within
touch of the route, comes under the
head of "family.” These routes will be
a great convenience to a great many
people who now have to come a long
distance to town for their mall, and
heiice cannot make the trip often.
TRINITY GUILD BENEFIT.
A muscale and select reading will
he given at the home of Mrs, Frank M.
Dallam Monday afternoon, In which
some of the best local talent of the
town will take part, and to which all
the ladies of the piece are cordially
invited. The program will commence
at 3 p. ra. sharp. The following is a
list of the numbers that have been
arranged for;
1 Danse Ecossalse Biker
Mrs. S. B. Starred
1— The Mission of a Rose Cower
2 2—One Sweetly Solemn Thought....
Ambrose
3 —An April Girl Fairlamb
Mrs. Geo. K. Major
3 La Madonna Sweet
Mrs. D. Masko
4 Recitation Mrs. Kratzer
5 Impromptu (A flat) Shubert
Mrs. C. C. Hedgers
G X —My Ain Folk Lemon
2 Yesterday Land Stamper
Miss Edwynne Tilley
T Sonata Pathetecpue Beethoven
Mrs. E. R. Taylor
8 Recitation Mrs. W. J. Hoskyn
9 The Witches Flight Russell
Mrs. Taylor and Mrs. Hedgers
I—Absent Metcalf
10 2—Thera Adams
3 She's a Daughter of Mother
Machree Ball
Mrs. D. H. Lewis
A NEW INDUSTRY.
-a—~ i ■ ■■ —-mo i i.
S. Gjerde recently purchased L. W.
Barnes’ pea nut stand and candy em
porium, on the south side of the rail
road track, and has overhauled and re
filled the interior to meet the require
ments of bis business. Mr. Gjerde has
developed a new industry in Orovllle,
one which we trust to see grow to
large Importance and from which the
proprietor will profit largely. Mr.
Gjerde is a practical and experienced
candy maker, and his commodities,
that take all of the popular candy
forms, are equal in every respect to
those manufactured in the larger
cities, because he knows how to make
them with a taste that appeals to the
sweet tooth. There is no reason why
he should not supply the entire trade
of the county in time. We are not an
authority on pronunciation and cannot
give you the straight tip as to the
enunciation of Mr. Gjerde’s name, but
we can testify to the superiority of
his candies, and feel safe in saying
that there is none bettor in the market,
and what adds to the pleasure of the
taste is that the product is home manu
factured.
DISLOCATING CALCULATIONS.
The repeated disruption of train ser
vice on the branch this winter has
knocked the plans of public gatherings
at Okanogan into a cocked hat more
than once, to the disappointment of
the public at large as well as the
residents of the county seat. The for
mal opening of the court house, which
would have witnessed the largest
crowd ever collected in Okanogan had
weather conditions proved favorable,
was a frost on account of a blizzard
that blocked both the county roads
and the railway. Tuesday of this week
those Interested in the proposition to
change the road district system, and
there were many such, expected to
meet with the county commissioners,
and another blockade of the railroad
I revented the people from reaching
the county seat. Quite a delegation ex
pected to go down from this place. It
is a case of man proposing and God
disposing. All further gatherings at
Okanogan should be postponed until
after the going of the snow and the
subsidance of high water that is cer
tain to follow the hard winter,
FARMER’S INSTITUTE.
Prof. A. B. Nystrom, head of the
dairy division of the Washington State
college, and Professor Kranz, of the
animal husbandry division of the same
college, will hold an institute in the
auditorium of the Orovllle high school
Saturday, February 19. This promises
tc be a very interesting meeting, and
one in which all the farmers of the
surrounding country are especially in
iterested in. There will be no charge
for admission, and it is hoped that all
those living in town and vicinity in
terested in stock and dairying, two of
the most important industries of this
upper country, will be present.
The heavist snow of the winter in
quantity of snow-fall, commenced on
Wednesday afternoon and continued
through most of Wednesday night.
Seme four or five Inches fell on the
level.
HW6IHR
SALE OF LARUE TRACT UNDER IR
RIGATION DITCH.
A LARGE COLONY TO LOCATE
First Large Purchase of Land by Out*
aiders In the West Okauog.a Val
ley Irrigation District
A real estate transfer took place
this week to which much significance
la attached. It Is not only an Indication
that land will move under the irriga
tion system, but that the nucleus of a
targe colony has been established that
is to grow rapidly into a well settled
aud prosperous community. It is one
of the most encouraging transactions
since the beginning of agitation for
the watering system, and is looked up
on by all interested in the settlement
of the valley as the preliminary steps
toward the speedy occupancy, cultiva
tion and Improvement of about all the
available land under the ditch.
It is generally known that last fall
G. A. Shamberger, of Alberta, Canada,
a prominent member and elder of the
religious sect known as the Church
of the Brethren, or Dunkards, came
into the valley, and was so favorably
impressed with its appearance and
possibilities under the new irrigation
project, that he invested in a tract of
land near Ellisforde station, some ten
miles south of Orovllle. It. was inti
mated at the time that this purchase
1 would be followed by others, and that
Mr. Shamberger’s coming was merely
preliminary to the arrival and settle
ment of others of his faith. Already
.is the valley experiencing the effect
of Me. Shamberxnc’n.imrJetiantton and
wen.si— amt of
his individual purchases, but because
his decision will Influence many others
of bis church, who will be here later.
During the past week John T.
Knight, who, during bis residence in
the valley demonstrated what can be
grown here where the husbandman
puts forth his best endeavors, sold 200
acres to Mr. Shamberger, the land in
cluding Mr. Knight’s homestead of 120
acres aud 80 acres of a desert land
entry held by Mr. Knight. This land is
located only a few miles below Oro
ville, adjoining the celebrated McOin
ty place. Mr, Shamberger not only
purchased 200 acres from Mr. Knight
but also purchased the Francis Feath
erkile and Green Parker places of 80
acres each, adjoining the Knight land,
thus giving him 360 acres of val
ley and bill side land in a body.
Mr. Shamberger is accompanied by his
family, a married son and two sons-in
law, and is soon to be Joined by two
more married sons with their families.
It is understood that others will fol
low in his footsteps, Invest in land
under the ditch and contribute to the
development of the valley. This new
colony ground is to be known as the
• Shamberger Heights,” and in all
probability a thickly settled commun
ity will be located at that point during
the present year.
The people who will make up this
colony arc steady, industrious, earnest
and law abiding citizens. Wherever
any of the faith have settled, that place
has become a garden spot, because
they know how to get the best out of
the laud they cultivate. They make
money, because they know how to
work land to the best advantage, and
are frugal and saving. Their presence
In the valley will soon be noticeable
by the marked changes that will take
place on the land they occupy. The
locality in which they settle will blos
som like the rose, and returns will be
•speedy. It Is understood that Mr.
Shamberger and the members of his
large family will turn their attention
especially to the growing of alfalfa
and raising a superior breed of beef
cattle.
Besides the sale to Mr. Shamberger
Mr. Knight sold 40 acres of his desert
claim to Ernest It. Mosby, of the Ha
villah country. Mr. Mosby will proceed
to put the land In a high state of cul
tivation this spring.
This is the most Important piece of
news appertaining to the Irrigation
system the Gazette man has had the
pleasure of mentioning and is an an
nouncement of a bona fide transfer to
people who will engage in intensive
farming, and It will be an incentive
for other home seekers to come and
inspect. It is believed that this is the
beginning of real estate transfers un
der the ditch that will eventually place
the land in the hands of small holders
to the great benefit of both the holders
and the country at large.
DEBORAH SOCIETY MEETING.
The Deborah society of the Presby
terian church will meet on Wednesday
afternoon with Mrs. F. V. Covert at
her home in the Covert building. All
members and friends are urged to at
tend.
MRS. L. D. OLIVER,
Secretary,
$1.60 PER TEAR
