he Monett Times
An Advertisement in the Tims Brings Results
Weekly Edition Vol. 17, Nd. 23
MONETT, MISSOURI. ITJDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1916
Daily Edition Vol. 8, No. 189
r
STATE DEMOCRATS
CALLED TO MEETING
IN ST. LOUIS FEB. 25
ODD FELLOWS AND REBEK-
AHS INSTALL OFFICERS
Large Attendance and a Good Time at
Campbell's Hall, Wednesday Night
McClung's Committee Will Select
, Time and Place for Holding
Convention
GEORGE A. HANCOCK
SUCCUMBS TO LONG
v ILLNESS ON COAST
The Odd Fellows and Rebekahs held Genera, Managcr Levy Receives Mes-
Jefferson City, Mo., Feb. 8. An of
ficial call was issued by D. C. Mc
Clung, Chairman of the Democratic
State Committee, for a meeting of
that body to be lield in St. Louis at
the Planters Hotel, at 2 p. m., Friday,
February 25. The committee will fix
the place and the date for holding a
State Convention to elect delegates to
the National Convention in St. Louis
June 14, and to nominate candidates
for presidential electors.
NThe call is signed by D.C. McClung
of Jefferson City, chariman, and Geo.
H. MiddleTcamp of Hawk Point, sec
retary. It is as follows:
The Democratic State Committee is
hereby called to meet at Planters Ho
tel in St. Louis on Friday, February
25, 1916, for the purpose of selecting
. the time :and place for holding the
State Convention, which will in turn
elect, delegates to the national conven
tion, which meets in St, Louis on June
14; also to transact such other busi
ness as may come before the commit-
tee. ';' ' ' , ' . i
Accompanying the official call is the
following letter to each of the 32
members of the committee:
The "Democratic State Committee'
"will "be 'host at a banquet to be given
to the Democratic Editors of Missouri
. at Planters Hotel on the even jng of
February 25, alter the regular State
Committee meeting,
I only h,ope that you will be there
without fail, but, if you find it impos-
' Me to1 k&&tk W jr ro t aeLituLtiA
proxy to the secretary of the commits
tee; Mr. George H. Middlekamp or
some one else in whom you have con
fidence, to act for you.
Chairman McClung also sent out to
day to each member of the Democrat
ic Press Association of Missouri which
"will he in session in St. Louis on the
date of the committee meeting, a let
ter of invitation to attend the banquet,
It is likely that the committee will
fix the ratio of representation on the
basis of the vote for Wilson in 1912,
in such a way that the convention will
consist of Trom-1 1,000 to 1,200 dels
gates. s '
- Places likely to try for the conven
tion are St. Louis, Kansas City, St.
Joseph, Joplin, Springfield, Sedalia,
Excelsior Springs and Jefferson City.
The general opinion is that the date
of the convention will be fixed for the
latter part of April.
sage Announcing Death of Former
Superintendent of Motive
Power for Frisco
a joint public installation of officers at
Campbell's hall Wednesday night.
There was a good attendance and a
good time.
Mrs. E. H. Watson, of Peirce City? Springfield, Feb. 10. George A,
district deputy president of this dis- Hancock, former general sunerinten-
trict, installed the Rebekahs. She ' dent of motive power for the Frisco j
was assisted by Mrs. John Smerdon with headquarters here, and widely
as marshal. The other grand offices known among railroad men of the
were filled by Monett Rebekahs! The ' country, died Wednesday at Los An-
WINTER FARM WORK
By M. A. R. Kelley, University of
Missouri, College of Agriculture
beautifully done and im
work was
pressive.
John Salzer was installing officer
for the Odd Fellows and he was as
Haul manure.
Test seed corn.
Prepare for all spring work.
Lots of necessary things can be done
now which will save time later on.
Have you cured plenty of pork and
beef for the summer? If not, do it
now.
This is a very good time to look
over and repair all machinery, harness
and fences.
A good supply of bolts, screws, and
nuts will save a great many hours of
MATHERS' CONGRESS
NAMES COMMITTEE
Plan; are Made at Conference for
State Convention to Be Held in
Columbia April 26 and 27
RAILROAD NEWS
? Southwestern division local brake
men Bill Amber and Frank Mills laid
off yesterday on account of sickness.
They will go to Sapulpa this evening
to work out of there in chain gang
service.
Springfield, Feb. 10. With the se- ' Extra Passenger Brakeman Win.
lection of the nominating committee Kenney has reported for duty after a
according to word received by General ' hard labor later on in the season .
I T,1 .1
Manager E. D. Levy. Death was not
unexpected owing to the fact that Mr.
sisted by E. N. Meador, of Cassville, j Hancock had been suffering from an
who was most efficient as marshal. incurable malady for several years.
Following the installation lunch was '' He was 59 years old and wealthy. V
served and a social time enjoyed. j Mr". Hancock came to Springfield in , i necessary so that it will be large
The officers installed for the Re- February. 1900. as superintendent of ' enough to last until this time next
bekahs were noble grand, Mrs. Albert i machinery at the Frisco shops. - On
Trimble; vice grand, Mrs. J. H. Hoo- I March 9, 1908, he became superinten-
Ver; secretary, Mrs. B. P. McCaslin; : dent of motive power, which position!
he held until his resignation in Aug-1
Every day now means a little ad
vance in the price of seed. If any seed
is needed, now is the time to purchase
it. .
Watch your wood pile ! Replenish it
financial secretary, Mrs. C. H. Ring;
treasurer, Mrs. M. J. Mott; right
support noble grand, Mrs. W.J.Mein;
left support noble grand, Mrs. S. C,
Dow; conductor, Mrs. Edgar Short;
warden, Mrs. S. B. Huteheson; chap
lain, Mrs. Osborn; inside guard, Mrs.
M. C. Goodwin; right support vice
grand, Mrs. D. J. Randolph; left sup
port vice grand, Mrs. Fred Walton;
outside guard, Mrs. L. R. Baum.
The Odd Fellows' officers are noble
grand, J. F. Campbell; vice grand,
Fed Denno; secretary, Spencer Pan
nell; treasurer, S. B. Huteheson;
right support noble grand, J. E. Jen
kins; left support noble grand, G. W.
Etter; right support vice grand, W
A. P,pynt; left support v vice grand,
Xif S&,onuir?or, J .-' E. Jenkins;
warden, J. R. Aulgur; inside guard,
Joe Bobslci; outside guard, D. J. Ran
dolph; chaplain, L. B. Durnil.
ust, 1913, when he left the service ow
ing to ill health.. .
Prior to accepting the position as
superintendent of machinery, Mr. j
Hancock was connected with the Santa j
PARENT-TEACHER ASSOCIATION
year
I Hired labor can profitably be put to
work cutting brush and removing
rocks from the fields. Both should be
used in making dams to help prevent
soil washing.
The store keepers have all taken in
voices of their stock. Take a hint
from this and do the same, find the
Fe railorad and served for a number ! leaks stoP t-em as soon as possible,
of years as assistant superintendent j and increase your farm profits.
of machinery at Topeka, Kan.
T"liiv!nr hie cprv!ps oc cunorinton
dent of machinery and subsequently j can (1 al the repairing that you will
"I 1 i .
as superintendent of motive power for 10 ana Keep your implements
the Frisco, Mr. Hancock inaugurated in eood shaPe at all times,
many labor saving devices at the Frrs-, A sma11 hand forge is often very
co shops here, some of his mechanical lland' on the farm. In many cases it
'inventions still being in use at the vviI1 Pav for itself the first year.
Once the method of using it is learned
which will present the names of nom
inees for the state offices of the organ
ization and the completion of prelim
inary details for the annual state con
vention to be held in Columbia, Mo.,
April 26 and 27, the state board of
managers of the Missouri Mothers'
congress and Parent-Teacher associa
tions, Wednesday concluded a two
days' session here. Members of the
few days lay-off.
Southwestern division -passenger
conductor C. C. Milltr has reported for
duty and bumped extra conductor R.
D. Purcell off No. 407 this morning.
Jas. Amber has returned to Spring
field after a visit with his family here.
Mr. Amber is on the general griev
ance committee of B. of R. T.
Conductor W. L. Dunigan is pre-
board from practically all the larger J paring to move to Wichita, where he
cities of the state left Wednesday eve
ning for their homes.
The nominating eommittpp. which
has taken the new oil run between
Wichita and Beaumont.
Southwestern division "brakeman
will recommend the officers to be j Jim Pugh has reported for duty on
nainea at tne state convention, con- : local 441.
sists of: Mesdamos E. R. Keeks, Kan
sas City; E. V Dobbs, Columbia;
Frank B. Williums, Springfield. F.
W. Arnold, Kir'.crville, and Jennie
Southwestern division conductor B.
P. McCaslin is laying off No. 403 and
L. T. Temple is working in his place.
Extra conductor J. T. Randall, is work-
Hiklenbrandt of St. Louis. The next j ing in Temple's place on local 441
Good tools pay ! With good tools and
a Tittle repair shop on the farm you
regular meeting of the board will be
heir! April 25.
Mrs. J. B. McBr'de, state pres di- it
Southwestern division -brakemen
Jess Dunn, C. A. Casey and Walter
Plunkard have been promoted to con-
Frisco shops.
Since his resignation here, Mr. Kan-
the trips to the blacksmith will be less
of the Congress. wB nnjinirvimis.lv rlimtnrs
"
elected to represent the Missouri con- j Southwestern division engineer Ed
gress at the national congress to bs ; Fogel is laying off. He went to St.
held in Nashville the first week in j Louis last night.
April. i Southwestern division brakeman
j Tom Mansfield is laying off Conduc-
tor Blair's car.
Conductor Geo. Wilhoit is laying off
e i.vj uui jiciguuuia I ...
ern division ana conductor tari Smitn.
CARD OF THANKS
'cock had lived in Port Huron, Ontario, ' freque.nt during the very busy season.
where he had relatives and at pohits ' Harrows, disks, and : cultivators
on the Pacific coast where he sought should all be looked over carefully.
Dull harrows are very inefficient tools
to use. The blades of the disk should
be sharpened and the bearings should
Ms. Frank Fine and children, of
Washburn, are visiting ;here.
The Parent-Teacher Association will
meet Friday, February 11, at 3 p. m.,
at the Central school. All friends
are invited. The hostesses are Mrs.
Ladd, Mrs. Sater, Mrs. Morrow and
Mrs. Hale.
Following is the program
Vocal Due,t Ethel King, and May
Wrightsman
Hygiene and Sanitation Miss Hamil
ton. ' '
Use of Play Ground Mrs. Philip Da
vis. '
Need of Supervision in Young Peo
ple's Organization Miss Veerkamp
Responsibility for Chaperoiw Mrs.
Gardner
Address Dr. Ida B. Johnson.
to recover his health
The body will be interred at Los An- j
geles but will be shipped to Port Hu
ron in April for burial. Beside the
not be neglected. Renew them when
widow whd is widely known in Spring- I necessary. Dull shovels on cultivators
neici, a aaugnier, miss Jiiiraaoetn, agea
sixteen, survives.
CASSVILLE NEWS
Have you ever tried Cniropractic ad
justments ? If not why not? 77 tf.
OO OO ao OOOOOO OOOOOOOOOO OOOO
; It Apart
o
s
lak
S
8
S
O
Your account will receive the same care that has 0
made friends of present customer.
'pake the BANK ACCOUNT idea apart, thoroughly
analyse it and see what makes it go; learn its prac
tical advantages; Learn why those who use it get' ahead
while others with just as large an income do not accu
mulate anything for future comforts. -That's the way
you can know something of its persona value to you.
0
O
2 inc TIKM INA IiniN y kank
o
o
o
o
o
Assets Over Half a
CARL W.
WILLIS W
PHILJ.
LEHNHA"
V 1V FS.
8
J. C. Lowe of Monett was in Cass
ville, Friday.
Bernard Katzfey of Monett was a
visitor at the county seat Monday.
F. A. Meador spent Sunday with
his sister, Mrs. A. G. Henbest, and
family at Monett.
Dr. M. L. Ingram of Monett spent
I Sunday the guest of his son, Dr. J. S.
Ingram, in this city.
Mrs. T. W. Dirickson of Monett ac
companied by her granddaughter, An
na May Fromuth, visited her son, Jas.
Dirickson, Tuesday.
Attorney J. S. Davis was appointed
Tuesday by Probate Judge C. M.
Landis, to be"administrator of the es
tate of John R. Sullivan, deceased.
The personal property, not including
the household goods, amounts to about
$1,500. JMr. Davis executed a bond
for $3,000 which was approved by the
court. The Sulivan farm of 100 acres
is a valuable one.
Miss Hazel Hailey and Ross Manley
of Joplin were married at the home of
Mr. and Mrs. Benton Robbins in this
city Monday evening, February 7. The
ceremony was performed by Rev. E.
W. Love at 8 o'clock in the presence
of the family of Mr. Robbins, and the
following friends of the bride and
groom: Misses Gracie Newman, Jessie
McGinnis and Elaine Manley and Geo.
McGinnis Republican.
cannot be expected to do efficient work
Those who wish fuller information
with regard to the methods used in
doing these things, or planning farm
work of other "kinds, should address
the College of Agriculture, University
of Missouri, Columbia, Bulletins, cir
culars, or personal letters go every
week to thousands who have asked for
information on Missouri farm and
home problems.
We hereby publicly express our I noucwr ueo. vvunoit is laying otr
artfelt irratitiido to nnw, I chain caboose 470 on Southwest-
Southwestern division conductor A.
C. Russey is laying off on account of
!Hhe illness of his child. Extra con
! ductor Plunkard is working in his
place on caboose 649.
Southwestern division conductor
Turner is laying off caboose 478 and
conductor N .G. Hudson is working
and friends for their
sympathy durig the illness and at the
death of our mother. Mrs Marv
I Woods.
Mr. and Mrs.
Mr. and Mrs.
family.
Mr. and Mrs.
W
J.
F. Carpenter.
H. Crummel and
P. D. Woods.
WOODMEN'S CIRCLE
The, Woodman's Circle will meet in j in his PIace
regular session Friday evening, Feb-! James Basham, Jr., has accepted a
ruary 11. j position at the freight house.
BRINGS MINERAL
SPRINGS TO HOME
Mrs. Enoch Schneider left Monday I
morning for Los Angeles and other Wa"tea by t,rSt cIass farmer and
parts of California, where she will j stockman- Position as foreman or man
visit her mother, two sisters and other ! ageF' With eUlerly coupe or w'idow
(lady. Can give best of reference.
I Address Farmer, care this office.
38 t3 p.
relatives and friends; and also goes
for her health. She expects to remain
about three months.
NOTICE
Bring your carpet and rug weaving
to Mi's. Lillie Anderson at F. A. Pat
terson's two blocks east and two north
of Farmers Store. Work called for and
delivered in town. Phone 931 F2.
89 ml d&w p.
Unless we eat such vegetables as
spinach, carrots, and other fresh gar
den foods, whole wheat bread, etc.,
very few of us get enough mineral
elements to keep our bodies healthy.
Hundreds who go to the various min
eral springs receive health benefits
for this reason. Some months ae-o a
strange rock stratum was found in
Southern Alabama, with seven of the
most valuable minerals deposited in
highly concentrated form. The rock i
was pulverized and pure water per
colated through it. This drip is known
as Vitazone. Its powerful effect on in
digestion, stomach and liver trouble,
kidney and bladder disorders and im
pure or impoverished blood is wonder
ful. It is so strong that a teaspoon-
ful in half a glass of water is a dose.
Try a glass of it free if you are inter
ested. - , Adv.
MARRIAGE LICENSES
. Lee Saxe. of KnHno-fioi.r visits
William Filby .
May Mummert
D. S. Coons . .
Lula Foster
Virgil Kimball .
Sarah Brock ..
P. D. Beal ...
. v . Joplin
. . . . . Joplin
. Flat Creek
Flat Creek
. Shell Knob
Shell Knob
.... Monett
Dona Potts r. Seligman
Leonard G. Brown '. Purdy
Arvilla Whittington Purdy
Brown & Drake, the Chiropractors.
A Word of Warning
Are you sure the Mattresses you are now offering
for sale contain new, clean material thruout?
Don't attempt to answer this question until you have
ripped open a couple of the Mattresses now in your
Warehouse. Settle it in your own mind NOW.
The abnormal conditions prevailing at present war
rant the most rigid inspection of all so-called Cotton
Felt Mattresses.
If no Sanitary Bedding Law is applicable to your
State, you may be paying regular prices for Mattress
containing unsanitary material, possibly laden with
disease germs, and arc,J therefore, deceiving yourself
and impairing the health of your customers.
Look out for flashy tick patterns showy open-end
samples the inside of the Mattress will tell the
story as never before.
The Stearns & Foster Co.
The above warning was mailed to mattress dealers
in states where there were no sanitary bedding laws. So well
does it present the danger of buying ordinary mattresses that
I publish the article lor the benefit of my customers.
I am exclusive agent for Stearns & Foster mattresses
Bob Callaway
0O00000O ;; M
M3MB& here Wednesday. ,
Phone 215. 84 tf.
