BARRE DAILY TIMES
VOL. XIX NO. 281.
JIAHKE, VERMONT, FRIDAV, FKHHUAKV 11, 1910.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
rrn
IE
FRENCH FAIL
TORE-CAPTURE
LOSTTRENCHES
Four Successive Attacks Are
Said by German Army
Headquarters to Have
Been Repulsed Northwes
of Vimy in the Artois Re
gion
i
ATTACK ALSO FAILED
SOUTH OF THE SOMME
Russians Report Victory in
Volhynia in Capture of a
Hill Between Fortresses
of Rovno and Lutsk
Heavy Firing on Riga
Dvinsk Front
Berlin, via London, Feb. 11. The re
pulse of four successive attacks made by
the French in their efforts to recapture
trenches northwest of Vimy in Artois
was announced to-day by the German
army headquarters. The French also
failed in assaults south of the Somme.
The western front is still the central
field of military interest. The Intent
reports show no signs of lessening in the
intensity of the violent struggle going
on for several days in the vicinity of
Vimy and Neuville, near the Belgian
liorder, while further south along the
line there are signs of re-awakening ac
tivity on the part of both the Germans
and the French.
In Russia artillery play on the Riga
Dvinfik front is notably heavy in char
actor, but the infantry does not appear
to have been active. In Volhynia the
Russians report a forward movement in
the capture of a hill between the for
tress of Rovno and Lutsk, but the lat
est Austrian reports claim that the
troops of Emperor Nicholas have been
held to their old jiositions in Calacia and
on tho Bessarabian frontier, despite the
desperate struggle to advance, A Pet
rograd report, received in London, says
Emperor Nicholas left for the front yes
tcrday.
TEUTONS WILL TREAT
ARMED VESSELS AS
SHIPS OF WAR
United States lias Been Notified Through
German Embassies at Washington
of That Decision,
Wellington, 1). C, Feb. 11. Germany
and AiiKtrin, through their embassies
hero have unfilled the United Mates of
their intention to treat armed merchant'
men as warships after March 1. That
date was fixed to give tho entente allies
time to signify their intention toward
the recent note of the I'nited Mutes pro
posing the disarmament of merchant
men.
Berlin, via London, Feb. 11. Austria
Hungary is to publish immediately a
parallel note to thu (icrman memoran
dum announcing the same procedure as
Germany in thu case of armed merchant.
men applicable from ten. iltf.
BATTLE IN PROGRESS
FOR TEN DAYS
Germans are Very Busy Strengthening
Their Lines Between Ypres and
r Armentieres, But Large Of
fensive Has Been Post
poncd.
Amsterdam, via London, Feb. 11. A
dispatch from Ghent to the Echo Beige
ays that on the Belgian front between
Ypres and Armentieres a violent artil
lery battle has been in progress for ten
days. The Germans are very busy
strengthening their lines, but the opinion
prevails that they have postponed i
large offensive movement until tin
weather i more favorable.
The allied airmen are developing un
precedented activity and are constantly
shelling the camps of artillery parks and
military buildings in the hands of the
German". A Camp Houthulst dispatch
says that it was visited last week by
47 raiding aviators, who did consider
able damage to German military prop-
Berlin. Feb. 11. (by wireless to Say-
villc) The German government is about
to issue, a memorandum to neutral gov
ernments announcing that hereafter
that ull armed merchantmen belonging to
countries at war witn tiermany win ue
considered and treated us worships.
The government contends this measure
is justified by explicit instructions is
sued by the British admiralty to mer
chantmen, copy of which is said to have
been obtained by the German authorities.
These instructions, it is understood here,
were that the merchantmen should carry
guns and attack submarines on sight.
It is also stated these orders have a
counterpart in instructions issued by the
governments of other countries at war
with Germany,
in the memorandum it is explained,
that Germany acquaints neutral powers
with its intentions "that they may warn
their citizens against further entrust
ing merchantmen belonging to powers
at war with the German empire.
Dr. Alfred Zimmerman, Under-Secre
tary of foreign affairs, in giving out the
memorandum said:
"We believe we can meet Secretary
ansing's ideas concerning submarine
warfare."
lie stated that action would lie tak
en a soon as neutrals could adjust their
commerce.
It was explained in the memorandum
that Germany takes her present step in
lew of what she cites as secret liistruo-
ions of the British admiralty to mer
chant ithijjs to open fire on submarines,
Germany further citing 19 instances
herein it is charged German submarines
have been fired on by merchantmen. The
memorandum concludes:
"Under the enumerated circumstances
enemy merchantmen armed witn guns
no longer have the right to be regard-
d as peaceable merchantP'en. The Ger
man sea forces, therefore, will be ordered
to treat such vessels as warships after
a short interval granted in the interests
of neutrals. The German government
makes neutral powers aware of this sit
nation tliHt they may turn their citi
zens against further entrusting their
persons or property to armed merchant
men belonging to powers at war with
the German empire.
WILSON MAY
APPOINT LANE
WAR HEAD
To Succeed Lindley M. Gar
rison, Who Resigned Last
Night Because He and the
President Disagreed on
the Proposal for a "Conti
nental Army"
Congress concur in a bill embodying tha
amendment." lie said he must withhold
judgment until the final action was be
fore him in definite form.
OUT OF PUBLIC LIFE.
Lindley M. Garrison Say He Is Through
and Won't Talk Further.
New York. Felt. 11. Mndlev M. Garri
son, former secretary of war, announced
here to-iluv that he intended to tct.iro
absolutely from politic and public life,
lie oiiid he would not discuss his resignu
tion from any political angle,
VERMONT GUARDSMAN
GAVE TESTIMONY
ON ARMY BILL
EX-GOV. WALSH ALSO
BEING CONSIDERED
Meanwhile Pres. Wilson Is
Himself at the Head of the
Administration's Plans for
Strengthening the Army,
and He May Retain Control
Washington, IX C, Feb. 1 1. President
Wilson found himself to-day personally
in charge of the administration's plans
for strengthening the army and working
out a definite military policy, through although it. had been 'known for some
' : .1... : l. -l:
Adjutant-General Lee S. Tillotson Ap
peared Before House Military Com
mittee in Washington Re
turned to HU Home
Hopeful of Measure.
St. Allwuis, Feb. II. Adjutant-General
l4e S. 1 illotson of the Vermont National
Guard returned to bis homo in this city
last night from Washington, where with
other oflicials of high rank in the Na
tional Guards of the country, he was
called in connection with the preparation
of a military preparedness bill. lie ap
peared before the House military com
mittee, of which Representative Greene
of this city is a member.
. Adjutant-General Tillotson is hopeful
of the outcome of the activity in so far
as it affects the National Guard in the
way of strengthening it and making it
a more serviceable body of troops for
the national service.
Up to the time Adjutant-General Til
lotson left Washington for home there
wan not intimation in that city that
Secretary of War Garrison had any in
tention of leaving the Wilson cabinet,
TWO NEGROES
SEEK RE-TRIAL
PREVENTING DISEASE
IS A POSSIBILITY
Were Convicted of the Mur
der of Dr. C. Frank
lin Mohr
Dr. S. Dana Hubbard, New York Health
Expert, Told Bane Audience Last
Evening How It Can Be
Accomplished.
The Vermont State Medical society, in
cooperation with local physicians, was
responsible for a lecture delivered in the
Barre opera house, last evening by Dr.
S. Dana Hubbard of the New York City
department of health, on the subject of
"Best Methods for the Prevention of
Contagious Diseases." Dr. G. G. Marshall
of Rutland, chairman of the committee
IS THEIR CLAIM of rub,ic heM ? tlm sovU'ly' . larc
iy instrumental in coiiciiicunjr im
paign winch is, as Dr. Jlubbaru says, a
campaign on tho prevention of disease."
The lecture lant evening was one of
four which Dr. Hubliard was asked to de
liver in this state, tho other three to be
given at Rutland, St. Albans and Bur-
luigton.
The speaker was introduced by Dr. J.
H. Woodrulf, who explained in a few
words the puriHise of the campaign and
the results w-hieh the riliVKicians of the
t i r t T-. u ii v:.... I .... . !.
v.co i id.... gtate hoped to gain by it
BUILT FIRST
STONESHED
John S. Collins, a Pioneer
Granite Manufacturer of
Barre, P si To-day
NEW EVIDENCE
Cecil Brown and Henry
Spellman File the Motion
Through Attorney
WAS AP C OACHING
H J2D BIRTHDAY
He S ed as a Sharpshooter
During the Civil
War
Brown and Henry H. Spellman, tho ne
groes found guilty hist Saturday of the
murder of Dr. C. Franklin Mohr, to-day
through their attorneys filed a motion
or a new trial, claiming that new evi-
enee had been discovered and other
grounds.
The lecture was illustrated by many
beautifully colored stereopticon slides
which served to bring out more clearly
John S, Collins, known as the pioneer
Barre granite manufacturer, anil the last
of an early generation of granite cutters
in this city, died at his home, 5 Hill
street, this morning at 1:30 o'clock. Mr.
the points explained by tho speaker and;(0ijn wag e!irjn,, i,js n2d birthday and
FUNERALS OF BARRE WOMEN.
incidentally gave the audience a good
idea of the conditions in the streets and
tenement houses of New York with
which the doctor and his associates have
to deal in their every day work. The
evil results of congested conditions in
the tenements, the lack of care in the
disposal of refuse, and the evasion of
MARSH 0. PERKINS DEAD.
ertv.
FORD IS WILLING
TO SPEND MILLIONS
So Louis Lochner Reported and 30 Swiss
Parliaments Decided in Favor of
Participation in Neutral
Peace Conference.
Berne, via Paris. Feb. II. A meeting
of 'M Swiss parliamentarians, after hear
ing the rejHirt of Louis Lochner and Har
ry C. Evans, delegates of the Ford peace
expedition, decided unanimously in fa
vor of the participation ot witzcrland
in a neutral jicaee conference at Stock
holm. Lochner assured the meeting that Hen
ry Ford has stated his willingness to
spend several millions to promote the
success of the conference, to which Loch
ner said all neutral countries are send
ing representatives.
A Swiss delegation, headed by Nation
al Councillor Nchcrrer-Kiiellrmann, wag
appointed by the meeting.
Prominent Woodstock Man Was a Lead
ing Mason in Vermont.
Windsor, Feb. 11. Marsh O. Perkins,
who had been ill w ith a cancerous trou
ble for several months, passed away just
before 8 o'clock last night, at his home
on Court, street, aged 67 years.
He had been a prominent resident of
Windsor for many years. He was a for
mer editor of the Vermont Journal and
much interested in 'educational . affairs.
Mr. Perkins was prominent in Masonic
matters, a past grand master of the
grand lodge of Vermont and at f.e pres
ent deputy for the state of the 33d de
gree, tody. The funeral will be held at
the Congregational church of Windsor on
Monday afternoon at 1:30 o'clock, the
blue lodge conducting the burial service
with commanding escort. 1 he interment
will be in Asetitney cemetery.
Mr. Perkins leaves a widow, Mrs.
Clara Mclndoe Perkins, one son, Her
bert, and four daughters, Mrs. Floyd Hale
and the Misses Marion, Margaret and
Katherine, tne latter being very
this time.
ill at
FAVORS LOCAL OPTION.
WITHOUT FOUNDATION.
Rumors of Peace Proposals Recently
Made to Belgium By Germany.
londtm, Feb. 11. The Belgian lega-
tion announced tn-dy that rumors cir
cuited to the effect that pcai proposals
recently were made by (iermany to the
J'-clgian government are devoid of foundation.
APPROVED DISMISSAL.
Secretary Daniels Would Cot 03 t2 Mid
shipmen. Yeli.rcton. H. C Feb. ll.-Se.-r.4arT
fi tie Navy 1'ainel to 4av arir-"ed
Rutland Trades and Labor Council Adopt
ed Resolution.
Rutland, Feb. 11. A resolution indors
ing the principle of local option and
characterizing the possible passage of the
Perry bill as "a step backward to intem
perance was adopted at a meeting oi
the Central Trades and Labor Council of
this city in Apollo hall last night. Plans
for a "labor forward" movement in this
city that shall include every brunch of
trade at present outside the pale of or
ganized labor were practically completed
and arrangements for a mass meeting to
be held some evening during the coming
week were discussed.
It was announced that the work of the
two organizers at present working in
this city would be supplemented by the
efforts of a number of ofiier representa
tives of the state and national coniza
tions of various trade union. The men
at present in the city arc Fred Ceder
holm of Bridgeport. Conn., representing!
the International Association of Machin
ists, and Krnest Sdiliefer of Toledo, O..
representing the same body. s
The resolution putting organized labor
in this city on record as leing emphati
cally oppixid to the enactment of the
Perry bill or any similar substitute for
local option whs introduced by James ,1.
Reedy of this city, third ire-president of
the state branch of the American Fed
eration of l.ahor, and reads as follows:
4,nereas. there is tiMti the t-tatutc
book at the pre-ent time what is known
as the local option law. under which
each community lias the right of home
rule and local self government by which
the majority rules; and
"Whereas, during the time it has he. n
in operation the cause of temperance has
made rapid progress, a all true friends
of temperance agree; and
Whereas, being opposed to intemper
ance in every form and knowing that
the resignation of Secretary of WarLnuI
ley M. Garrison late yesterday. The
president has not selected a successor to
Garrison, and it is regarded as possible
that even after a new head of the war
department has been named the president
will continue to handle the preparedness
plan himself. Secretary Garrison s res
ignation, followed by that of Assistant
Secretary Breckinridge, took official
Washington by surprise.
While Secretary Lane is being consid
ered in official circles as tho likely choice
for successor of Garrison, it is understood
that President Wilson has under consid
eration the names of two or three others.
The president already lias made up Ids
mind to appoint a Democrat but he will
not be from Xew Jersey or the South.
Former Governor Walsh of Massachu
setts, Secretary Houston and former Gov.
ernor Harmon of Ohio are among the
names being discussed.
The cabinet met to-dav with a vacant
chair for the first, time since Bryan's res
ignation. The departure of Garrison
with its possible effects on the admin
istration s preparedness program was
ttioroughlv discussed. Reports that there
might be other resignations from the
cabinet met with general deninls. The
supporters of President Wilson declared
that he and Garrison agreed on the un
derlying principles of both the military
and the Philippine bills but differed on
the methods of carrying out the policies.
It is known that one of Secretary Gar
rison's principal reasons inr nis convic
tion that only a federal continental
army, instead of a reorganized National
Guard, could be the main military de
pendence of the nation was his belief
that some day the United States may be
called upon to defend the Monroe doc
trine, and in that event he foresaw that
the National Guard might not be avail
able for use outside of the United States
before a declaration of war.
Upon the contention, on the one hand,
that the continental army or ultimately
universal service was the nation's only
reliance and the position on the other
that no one plan eonld be enforced upon
Congress President Wilson and his secre
tary of war parted official company.
Mr. Garrison's resignation was a com
plete surprise to official Washington gen
erally. He made no personal explana
tion. Several hours before the official
announcement he had Iwiarded a train
with his wife for New York and word
had been passed at the department that
he had gone for an indefinite stay.
The acute differences of opinion which
led to the break began early in the year
when opposition to the continental army
plan began developing in Congress.
There had been indefinite rumors of the
possibility of tiie secretary of war leav
ing the cabinet, but they were never
countenanced in official quarters. - The
secretary everywhere was regarded as
one of the strong men of the administra
tion upon whom the president leaned in
the difficult situations, both domestic and
international, which have marked his ad
ministration. The circumstances which led up to the
resignation are detailed in the secretary's
correspondence with the president which
was made public lat.t night by the White
House. The president, the letters dis
close, believes that the training, organ
ization and control of a military reserve
should be under immediate federal direc
tion, but is not "irrevocably or dogmati
cally committed to any one plan." He
wrote Mr. Garrison that he could not
force any specific plan on Congress and
added:
"I must welcome a frank interchange
of views, and u patient and thorough
comparison of all the methods proposed
for obtaining the objects we all have in
view."
Mr. Garrison's contention that only the
plans of the war department could he
considered seemed to the prrsident
"whollv unjustifiable." Mr. Garrison
considered "reliance upon (he militia for!
national defense an unjustifiable, imper- i
iling of the nation's safety." I
In resigning be wrote the president:
"It is evident that we hopelessly disagree
upon what I conceive to le fumiamcntal
principles."
Mr. Harrison characterized the ( !rfce
amendment to the Philip). jnc bill provid
ing conditionally foT the independence
of t!ie iUn1s within four rears "an
abandonment of the d'ltr of this nation
time that Garrison was much disappoint
ed that the continental army plan had
failed to develop strength in Congress
TELEPHONE CONSOLIDATION.
Bethel Telephone Co. and Rapid Tele
phone Co. with Bethel as Center.
Bethel, Feb. 11. The Bethel Telephone
eompnny has filed a petition with tne
public service commission, praving for
power to increase the limit of its eapi
tal from $10,(K)0 to $30,000, and notice
is given of a hearing on the petition at
th Bethel inn March 9, at 11 a. m.
The petition is a result of the purchase
by C I), dishing, owner and manager
of the Bethel Telephone company, of tha
property ot the Kapid Telephone com
pany, owned by M. H." Hazen of South
koyaltoii, together with about CO miles
of pole lines belonging to the New F.ng-
land company, hitherto leased by Mr.
Hazeii. The consolidation affects tele
phone patrons in about 18 towns and is
expected to result in gradually improved
equipment and service, intensive re
ps irs will be made on the lines next
summer. The main exchange will be in
Bethel and there will be exchanges at
South Koyalton and Rochester.
A satisfactory traffic arrangement with
the New Kngland system is assured, with
terminal connections at Barre and White
River Junction. Connections subject to j
a zone limit will be made with the (..'range
county line, the Home Telephone com
pany and any other local lines in adia
cent territory. The system will be zoned
later for toll purposes, but tolls are not
expected to be greatly affected on the
whole. -
The deal outlined above is a virtua
merger of two successful local systems
which have become what they are by
the energy and business ability of th
parties thereto. Mr. Hazen, who now
retires from the business, has seen hi
system grow from small beginnings IS
years ago to its present dominant posi
tion in a dozen towns, with metallic cir
cuit and other appointments to corres
pond. Similarly, Mr. Cushing for about
12 vears has watched the development
of his system and has given it such care
ful personal oversight and service as ac
count largely for his success. Both are
enthusiastic telephone men and have suc
ceeded because they deserved to succeed
and knew their business to the smallest
details.
Incidentally, Bethel becomes one of
the most important telephone centers
among the smaller town of the state.
The towns covered by the consolidation
include Granville, Hancock, Rochester,
Stockbridge, Pittsfield, Bethel, Barnard,
Pomfret, part of Woodstock Hartford,
Chelsea, Washington, lunbrnlgo Royal
ton. Strafford, part of Brook field and
part of Randolph.
Mrs. J. M. Stevenson and Mrs. E. H. the law in regard to the proper cover-
Miller Buned Yesterday Afternoon.
Funeral services for Mrs. Helen (Camp
bell) Stevenson, wife of John M. Steven
son, whose death at her home, 109 Wash
ington street Tuesday foreuoon followed
week's illness of pneumonia, were held
at the house Thursday afternoon at 2
o'clock. Rev. Kdgar Crossland, pastor
of the First Presbyterian church, was
ing of foodstuffs in the markets ana
the use of ice were all shown up, as
well as the careful attention given to
the children in the schools, the treatment
of minor diseases and tho instruction of
the parents in regard to the ideas to be
; instilled into the minds of their off
springs.
Perhaps the most instructive of the
slides to the audience last night, as well
MARBLE WORKERS GET RAISE.
eli of trust fr the Filipinos."
bis jud;-
And Others at Clarendon Given a Nine
hour Day.
Rutland, Feb. 11. Raises in wages for
the employes of the Vermont Marble
company and a nine-hour working day
at the same wages hitherto paid for -10
hours for the employes of the Claren
don Marble company are tlvfl two latest
development in the Rutland county la
bor situation, which has lately exhibited
vague signs of unrest.
The raises given by the Vermont Mar
ble company will result, it is said, in
the abandon ipent of the policy hitherto
pursued by tbe company giving quarry
machine operators annual bonuses. The
increase was not a general one, but it is
said that a majority of the employes at
the West Rutland plant and a number of
those employed in the company's tenter
Rutland plant are affected.
1 ho advances range from one cent to
20 rents per day. The machine runn n. j
who have been rc-en ing f l.SO get a raise
of 18 cents er da v. This is practically
the largest adance given.
The action of the Clarendon Marble
company in adopting the nine-hour
schedule at the old I" hour day rate, is
in effect an increase of 10 per cent. The
Marendon company pays its machine
runmrs :l.."ii a day. and a company offi
cial st.it. s that Gi.' lowest wage paid by
ine cnnrn is inil j a Hat
t . 41 - . i 1:1.. l 4.. l . .1...
the officiating clergyman and the bear- ? ' L "K"y 1
ers were: Albert Jones, George Jilak
t':u:n, ri..,.i.i iu; t.,n;.. i,
ii tiiiuni ,iu villain aim iiia .11. ,11- . ,
iae 01 bouie oi wie muie common uia
eases. These slides showed the appear
ance of the body when afflicted with
The funeral of Mrs. Agnes H. Miller, I measles, scarlet fever, ehickenpox and
wile of Ldward H. Miller, who passed smallpox so clearly that the appearance
away at her home rrospect street of these symptoms might be readily rec
Tuesday morning, after a prolonged ill- ognized by other members of the pa
ness, was held at the house Thursday tient's family and lead to the immediate
afternoon at 2 o'clock. Rev. J. B. Rear- summons of proper medical attendance.
don, pastor of the Universalist church, Dr. Hubbard stated at the outset that
officiating. The bearers were members he had no desire to antagonize any mera
of the Uarre staff of the Vt. Tel. 4, Tel. Jbor of his audience by the portrayal of
l)., by whom Sir. Miller is employed, repugnant facts and to avoid any possi
They are: George Collamer, Ottie W. bility of this he made no effort to show
Lewis, .Lester Newton and 1. Murpny. the most serious cases of the evils winch
During the services Mrs. Isabelle Cant- he and his associates are trying to re
lay Hall sang two selections. 1 here form. The first section of his address
were several fine floral tributes. Inter- was a brief sketch of the lives and work
ment was made in Hope cemetery. of certain men who have been instru
Floral tributes included the following: mental in discovering methods of pre-
Pillow, husband and sister; carnations vent ion and curing disease.
from laundry workers. Miss Jane Wright. I The speaker dwelt at some length on
Jlis Catherine Ke-id, Miss Alary Rein, the value of vaccination and the use of
Miss Cecelia Dowers, Miss Llsie MeDon-1 anti-toxins and quoted statistics from
aid. Mrs. Lena Ifartlett, Mrs. Margaret his experience to prove the veracity oi
Nelson, Mrs. Lizzie Manuing, Mrs. Sarah I his statements. The mosquito as the
Stewart, Miss Josie Pittsley, Mrs. Kllen carrier of the yellow fever germ was re
Smith, hrnest Little; carnations, Mr. I f erred to as well as the common house
and Mrs. J. Canton. Mr. and Mrs. Wil-lfly with the many diseases which he is
nam Stacy. Mr. and Mrs. L. 1. .Mower, known to convey from people afflicted
Sir. and Mrs. Louis Komanosj earna- with them to the food of well persons.
tions. Sir. and -Mrs. John Condon, Chris- Welcome the Health Officer.
a i r II fitn a m a i inn a la nil vnaaa ' W I
Jit. if ruui j ai iiov k iiio auu i trrtn . t l.U JTT TTI1 J I i,
.! It., f V t..;L t,. I xieaiin, sum mji. niioiwiu, can imiv uc
(tilM iuiei, i si. ;uri i in . taiiintiuiie, n - . , . . ...
V. fAhellr carnations. fr. and Mm. ,,reu 1 ,tu"K" cumoiiia uon o. puu.ic
John Knox; narcissus. Rose A. Pierce;
- I L-nnu' LiniTA an,! aurhorirv- uhnnlrl h, wei-
carnations, Mr. and Mrs. (ieorge t.olla- " - ---
mer; pink carnations, Mrs. L. A. Hough- AJ rther, tban erp,1 an drd?1-
ton; carnations, employes of the Ver
mont Tel. & Tel. Co.
I effort and private cooperation. 1 lie vis
it of the health officer, our friend with
Funeral of Marquis James Canton. .
Funeral services for Marquis James,
the infant son of Mr. and Mrs. James
Canton of 70 Prospect street, whose
death ednesdav at
months, followed a
held at the house Thursday afternoon
at 2 o'clock. The bearers were O. N,
Canton and Harold Stacy, uncles of the
child, and interment, was made in the
itholie cemetery on Heckle v street.
The flowers were many and beautiful
including: White carnations and narcis
sus, Mr. and Mrs. James Canton; pink
arid white carnations, Mr. and Mrs
Henry Bnshey; white carnations, Mr
and Mrs. William Stacy; pink and white
carnations, Mr. and Mrs. Oney Canton;
white narcissus, Mr. and Mrs. Louis Ro-
manos; pink and white carnations. Miss
Nellie Bianchi; hyacinths and roses. Mr.
and Mrs. Edward Mower and Beatrice;
pink and white carnations, Mr. and Mrs,
F. G. ( nnton; pink and white carnations,
Edward Miller and Miss Rathenne Mil
ler; pink and white carnations, Mr. and
Mrs. Nelson Ducharme; white narcissus
and carnations, Mr. and Mrs. Albert
Tacy; white carnations, Mr. and Mrs,
lames Ijmb; narcissus. Miss Beiilah
Kee, Miss Leona Umb. Mrs. Mary Gon
yo; pink and white carnations. Mr. and
JQ-s. Kdward Carroll
Funeral of Mrs. Margaret Roben.
The funeral of 51 rs. Margaret Roben
whose death occurred this morning and
whose obituary appears on another page
of to-days paper, will be held at 1 4
South Main street, Barre. Sunday after
noon at 2 o'clock, and interment will be
n the family lot in Hope cemetery.
WOMAN ORDERED COMMITTED.
ecnptions were withdrawn in tb
The '.'"t men employed at the larin-icf Slate vs. Vsb-rie Bergonri.
Mary John of Barre Lost Case in Ver
mont Supreme Court.
The February term of supreme court
as adjourned yesterday afternoon, aft
er having been in n-ssion about ten days,
and the four justices who reside out
side Montpelier. left on the evening train
for their respectie homes. Chief Jus
tice Lovcland Munson left this morning
f..r Manchester.
.several cases wvre argued yesterday
morning and the court was n dilied that
1 he doctor does not believe in the im
posing of needless restrictions on the
individual which have the effect of an
tagonizing him rather than making of
him a friend of the cause.
In speaking of the danger of the con
tamination of the food which we eat
the speaker mentioned milk as espeeial-
t the age of 14 Hy dangerous. "Milk, in my estimation,"
i.i-iof nirint. ..... he said, "has scattered more eontamina-
oriei iiintxn, eie .. t.
nun man any oiiici urn: itonr. xie ca-
plained that no milk was absolutely safe
until it had been "pasteurized," tliat is.
placed on the stove and heated to a tem
perature of 140 degrees Farenheit for 20
minutes. This in no way affects the
milk but does kill the germs.
The doctor, pointed out the mistake of
valuing the regularity of the child's at
tendance at school above his health and
advised the detention of the child at
home with proper care when troubled
with sore throat or colds. He also point
ed out the value for -grown people as
well as children of a few moments of
genuine relaxation at some time during
the day. The value of sunlight as a de
stroyer of germs was also shown by the
relating of incidents from his own exper
ience.
A few words were devoted to the prop
er care of babies with the object of low
ering the death rate among young chil
dren. Views were shown on tho screen
of the fresh air hospitals for the curing
of pneumonia patients.
The latter part of the lecture dealt
with the source of danger to men em
ployed in various occupations, stone cut
ting ranking fourth in the list in respect
to the percentage of consumptive men
employed. The speaker explained that
the danger lies not so much in the occu
pation as in the class of tools which
are used, lie snowed on the screen a
picture of a sand blast tool used in work
ing marble which he described as safe
Ihvsiisc the dust was all carried awy
from the face of the operator. Various
kinds of safely masks were also demon
strated.
Economic Losses from Disease.
Although he did not reach this point
his lecture of lat evening. Dr. Hub
bard is fond of demonstrating from a
purely economic standpoint, that it is
unprofitable to allow the spread of dis
ease. Ouoiing trnm MiUtslics gatncrcil
'rof. Fisher, head of the department J
was therefore one of the oldest persons
in Barre. Death was due to a general-
breakdown, although Ht the last he. suf
fered from an illness that resembled the
grip. The only near relative surviving
is his daughter, Mrs. Albertina Albin of
Barre, Five grandchildren und seven
great-grandchildren are also left.
Funeral services will lie held at the
house Sunday afternoon at 2 o'clock and
interment will be made in the family
lot at Klmwood cemetery.
Mr. Collins' career after he finished a
three-year enlistment with a Vermont
regiment of sharpshooters in the Civil
war, was closely linked with the develop
ment of Barre granite in the earliest
days of the industry. He was born in
Corinth May 11, 1S'.'4, and attended tho
common schools in his native town. As
a young man he went to Holland, Me.,
where he was married to Annie Hanson,
to whom three children were born, one of
them being Mrs. Albin. Enlisting as a
sharpshooter soon after the outbreak of
the war between the states, Mr. Collins
had an honorable record of service. He
was a prisoner in Libby prison and en
dured unusual hardships in that inclouure
in common with thousands of Union
soldiers.
Brayley's history of the granite indus
try of New Kngland speaks of Mr. Col
lins as coming id Barre in 18ti.j. For
three years he worked for Ira P. Har
rington, having previously learned the
granite cutter's trade in Quincy, Mass.
In December, NC8, he erected what now
seems to be a stoneshed of small propor
tions at the base of Hill street, near the,
spot where, the Barre A. Chelsea railroad
crosses the street at the present time.
Ho employed several cutters and gained
for his plant a reputation for turning
out good monuments. Among. the prod
ucts of that early stoneshed are memo
rials erected to George Camp in Orange,
to Aaron King in Tunhridge and to
James Kinney in Elmwood cemetery.
Granite manufacturers in those days did
not know the advantages of pneumatic
tools and many other labor saving de
vices of biter years. Mr. Collins lived
to see undreamed of strides in the de
velopment of the industry in Barre and
to the last he retained a deep interest in
the welfare of the city. He retired from
the granite business more than a quarter
century ago.
His first wife having passed away m
1867, Mr. Collins was married Dee. fi.
IhfSH, to Miss Martha J. Wason, the cere
mony taking place in Corinth. Mrs. Col
lins' death occurred in Barre Feb. S,
1902. The deceased was a member of
R. B. Crandall post, No. 06, Grand Army
of the Republic.
INSURANCE RATE
COMMITTEE VIEWS
BARRE CONDITIONS
convict-
and the
bv
of economics at lale university, he -hows
that for every death by typhoid, there
are on the average eight new cac. 7'hese
represent an average ! of 75 days'
time for (he per-on arPiiti-d or about
one fi.th of a year's work, t oiintirig Cie
aversg yearly wage at this means
a ,,s by this one disease of solium a
year in wages in the United Slates.
Representatives of New England Fire In
surance Exchange Also Conferred with
Members of Barre Granite Man
ufacturers' Association.
Rating committee, representatives of
the New England Fire Insurance, ex
change are iu the city investigating
Barre s fire protection system, including
the location of hydrants, etc., alarm
boxes, and the water sources. Yesterday
members of the committee met the Barn
Granite Manufacturers' association and
discussed the question of insurance. In
asmuch as the association is on the eve
of forming a co-operative fire insuring
company of its own, the visit of the ex
change representatives to manufacturers'
headquarters is regarded on all sides as
significant.
Persons who were present at the con
ference were non-committal when inter
viewed as to the outcome, although it
was stated that no action was taken. In
the fall of 1P1.", the association took
steps to relieve its member of insurance
rates that were described as oppressive.
Early in Jannaryutho state insurance
commission, after holding a hearing here.
seemed to look with favor on the propos
al to organize a mutual company, and as
for the manufacturers, they have only
lecn awaiting the granting of a charter
before organising. Seveial members of
the association, indeed, have gone so far
as to caned policies placed with private
companies.
fso it develops that yesterday's con
ference was the first occasion of a meet
ing N'twein the in -11 ranee men and the
manufacturers. It is stated that the rat
ing committee, so called, of the exchange
is making a tour of insoction in New
England cities fur the purpose of grading
the fire hazard according to the ade.
qitacy of the tire protection y.tcni in
each community. To this announced
purpose of the rating committer, sonie
Mgn'ificanee is aftaiheil. because of its
In-aring 011 the situa'ion ba-aTy. Hs'-re
manu'a torers made their protest on the
ground that (be rnfasiires for fire protec
tion in this city are r'it h nmrr a-impiate
than in oilier towns and riCc near by.
the rccorumeniUlmn of the board of lie
laid S'-aJeTrr dismissing- 2 BuO-fc pawn 'trier! of temjwrawe t.. (l.
.T f 1 ,r in tUtu ttaJis. i-oer to m!oi-i t.' Mm?.'
taew-ide prohibiti-m woU he a step, and brea
tau-kward to it. therotnre b- it 'The .resident replcj it was h
Resolved. I hat w e. the t entral Traies ' ment that t'e t Urke amendment w as 1 rrt etc! t m-iit i:s I a ve air. id v been re
and labor ouneil. favor te preaei.t ht- j "linw ie at tiis time." but adl.-l. "it jeeived. a.'i.re fi to a statement nisnie j
eat nrtm law and en1! m-on at! I rr ' would ! a-lr be most ma -I visa Me f r ice br t'.e manager v e.'-ri! v TSs oinninr I
ail ia liieir'to lake t;.e r"tkn t;at I must d.-ent plan enlarge it jda-it maLrialir IU
-olj tit aa.on (.houM both Loums cf le tnn.
A.... ..)..... . ......I : . i I nr . .. I ) 0 .. iMln,ii4i,n. I , . , . nr
pace with ord-TS, r.ler enough to keep I of Mary Jh of Barre. on v., ted of sell- of 4"Ji for a lite ri-ea (ho amount tojh property remain the sain
th,- rlnt r-..ir,g at full ranacitr for the ling liiuor. and wUn appealed from Puree f i'.airt per year, while the lo.s. s to ; : -
n'v court, tne cxirt lipHeld Cic lwer other. d" - tees, nurses ;..
court and the
'f.in.rl eJese
I
unletting Lie
brirg I he t-T
woman was ordered com
rotted to Hie notioe oi rorreet ion. I hi
, .,. was argK-d t this term of court, from t M n iii-ea-. w i.h h ranks Imir'h ail t!r wn-e ml tr
J:. .. llvar api-earing for the re?-ouucnt.i tie list ol CL mure coin men vi lit n 'uttly uuceveMnrj
and cont gi"is divase. "ImliiW-i. fg
up In rorinfi. an t re, I U-n - re ! !.
annuailv tt "its- v ni-iion, a I ; i !e i.ii.r. eel
w MS'n-e and tr;cii, arc ab-
il
r
