s
UfUUt
If
TWENTT-FOURTH YEAR.
CARLSBAD. NEW MEXICO, f RIDAT, FEBRUARY 11. lilt.
NUMBER 14.
iLiiElf
VMS INTEREST- .
INGLY ABOUT EARLY
DAYS OF CARLSBAD
I In Mfnnllann. with Vour kind r
uest, I Ukt pleasure in giving you
and vsur rranv reader. few of my
thought regarding in cnanges iron
my firit advent into the feeo eoun
"Comanch In'un" and then away
down the road a eoming up, 1 saw
i h ton of a ereat biir building In a
forest of cottonwood and think I to
HAMILTON BURLE80N.
The can of J. W. Hamilton v.. Ed.
Burleson wa decided by Judg Rich
ardson, the judg finding for plaintiff
a follow:
In the District Cou.t, EdJy Coun
ty, New Mexico.
Thl raui coming on to b heard
at the regular January term, HUH,
awarded.
To all of which defendant except.
Dated thl 6th day of February,
191, at KoKwell, New Mexico.
GRANVILLE A RICHARDSON.
Judge.
DEMOCRATS MEET
EDDY COUNTY HOSPITAL NEWS.
laintiff being In Court represented
y hi counsel, 8. D. Stennis, Jr., and
myself: "Old boy. you're lo.t and defendant being In Court repre.er.ted
i' .... k. by hi counsel. E. I'. Bujac, Jury
JTOU U IlvtlrWr . . 1. I J l. l..U 1...
navm; own w.ivwu vj uvvii ym
vou
Hut being in Rearen oí aovenvure
and a place to camp, and the forest
looked lik there wa plenty of fire
wood, I kept right on, and lot beholdl
I wa right into the Queen city of the
I'eco before I knew it, and on of
the principal cltlxen "hollerin" for
me to stop. You bet I d ra wed right
up and I aked him what he wanted.
A picture of that outfit, ed he. Now
what do you think of that? And then
a lot more gathered around me and I
concluded I wa in for it when anothe
feller came out of a tor and wllng-
Mr. L. E. Eastwood, of Elida, wa
brought in Wednesday to be operated
on Saturday.
Mm. J. Stoke, of Lovlngton, wan
brouirht here to undergo an opera
tion Saturday.
MM W t'lnl.v mmm nnratd on
the court upon a hearing of the wit- Tu(iy nd her m.ny frends will
nenie of plaintiff and defendant and be pWnnvi to hear that h 1 doing
argument of eounael, and upo ndue ncay,
conaidcration thereof, doe find th ia- ' R0.ch. of Muskogee, Okla.,
núes joined In favor of plaintiff and ilttor of Mrg y, Ri Alien, under-
against defendant. went a very aeriou operation Tubs-
It la therefor ordered, adjudged day and ia doing very well at pre-
and decreed by the court that the Mnt.
plaintiff, J. W. Hamilton, do have Mr. Marion Crawford, of Arteaia,
and recover judgment againat the de- ag taken to the home of hi aon,
fendant. Ed. Burleann. in the aum of Sunday.
five hundred twelve and BOllOO ($512.- Mr. Harold Uichey, who underwent
501 Dollar, said judgment to bear in- an operation February 2nd, waa re
try, ling hi arm like a winamin. maae terest at the rate or o per cent per moved to hia home Monday.
Some 28 or 27 year ago I cam Into rht for m and hollored like he waa annum from the dute of this entry and Mr. Von De Witt, of rtesia, will
th place upon which your beautiful t.ellerin' to a heard of ateers: "Hello, coala to be taxed by the clerk of this he dismissed from the hospital next
little city now sianns. in cM"". t ioud: you Old sinner, now are yuu i court, lor wnicn execuuton nrreoy Saturday,
with the consulting engineer, the late ) nd, by George, If it waan't my old
Edward S. Nettleton, my brother,! fril!nj Mol.enathen and here I wax
wife and young aon, John, cam from i rKrit In Eddy no, Carlsbad right
Toyah behind four spanking mine where I waa steering for. Well sir,
are all talking Putney, but at th
same time they are askln gthemselve
"t an he he induced to accept the nonv
nailon?" Once let Putney drop a
hint that, like Barkis, he is willing
ar.d the nomination is hi on a silver
platter. At least, that ia the drift !
the talk here today.
Th belief that Mr. Putney aba
INTERESTING LECTUREON GAMEPROTECTIGN
i
i
LAI Gil! IN NAMED ST TE
I'll AIRMAN; AI.Ht (I ! KH E
IS MEETING PLACE.
Old Time Wheelhorae of Democratic
Party Selected to Lead Party In
Forthcoming Slat Campaign.
May 24 Date Set for th Conven
tion. Central Committee Adioura '
After Outlining Tentativa j'lana lutely will not consider th proposi
tar Baltic of Ballot November tion under any circumstances. how
Next, ever, is strong. His big wholesale)
grocery business In Albuquerque, it
Santa Fe, Feb. 6. Th democratic known, is engrossing hi attention,
stale central committee, which met ml ln" f,,"r ' ,h"t if th matter
here Friday morning for th purpose P"t to him he will come down wiUi a
rules and regula- nei-woieu .-so imi win leave mm
matter a cioaea inriuent.
Here ia where (iovernor MrDonaM
flirurcs in tlie equation. It may turn
i.ut Hint the dcmoci ata will be roia
pcllcd to turn to him for lark of any
oth"r inailullc candidate. There fa
lulk if Antonio l.urcro. Lieutenant
Governor de Üitra Hi d oilier norther
New Mexico democrats for the nomU
mu ion, hut it in mostly talk. T.M
of framing up ithe
ions for the HUH campaign, adjourn
ed this afternoon, after choosing
Judge N. R. Ijiughlin, of Santa Fe, a
I'huiimun of the committee, and se
lecting Albuquerque as the pluce, and
May 21 as the date for the statte con
volition to nominate candidates fee
tule unci federal offices.
Walton Withdraw.
The MHMdinir win entirely hnrmon
Mom.. W. II. Walton, of Grant county, pietcnt governor has made many one-
whone frienda had hopel that ho " but lie ulso has muile man
would he tup ihoi.e of t.i commit teo t ii-tni-i. lie docs not want office Una
for chairman, withdrew after the eo- 'r' 111,1 ,l,l're chance that ita
ond ballot, when it waa anuarent tlmt will lie favored with the nomination.
four does and two fine bucks, hung j Judge I-auitlilin waa the favorite. 1 ÍK"1 for I ongrosmafl.
FOKKHT I.r.n iJKr.K. on a pole, explaining in animar game Ki-wtiutiona Adopted. I " nn i reiioiniiiaiioii mi me ww
I hog" and the lecturer sad the deer Resolutions weie adopted today, ex- publicans of Kcprvenlative B. C Hi.r-
Aldo Tieopold, lecturer and R. FJ were fast disappearing very few he-. pressing regret because of the death nandex u practical certainty, there I
i..t.k. l tk. ll.mr. V 'ini. I. .ft In the Ciindahine mountains of the late lion. II. H Feririissori. fur. oie u large conttivnent of the du
ALA MA NATIONAL
tionnl Forest, came Monday by way of and ovly a total oi 6,000 head were mer contri eaaman, and for many years muera. in
'nr-on seep in the Guadalupe moun-Uo be found in Arizona and New Mcxhigh in the councils of the Party; and "f tt N'onish
tuns. Mr. Innold Wednesdav nlirht co. Antelone and mountain sheep ' extending the sympathy or the com-
at eight o'clock at th High school i wer shown, and on view showed in.ttve to E. R. Vallmdingh
un.liin. liii uivi vrv interestinif 1 where the mountain sheep were licing I .una county
lecture and showed some splendid fed hay and how tame they would ne , great losa in tne ucam or his thre
views of birds and animals. I if protected and fed. daughters, killed in an automobile ac-
The first view he showed was of a i The wild turkey, sal dthe lecturer, , cident. .
herd of buffalo and spoke of them as are extinct in the Guadalupe moun. rridaya Sessions,
.v..... ...... i .u. .i.... k..... hot tl.v ri voinir to be renlac-1 1 he mtettng of t.,e committee Fri-
one continuous bunch for mile and ed and protected there when the ani-day waa in striking contrast to the
mala that prey on them are extermi- " "-iu ui year ago. m
A ' that time the party was rubbing its
how they were slaughtered and dia
appeared until only bOO head were
left in 1HÜ0 and how they would have
become extinct if they had not have
Uen protected for fifteen year by
law.
The elk wa shown in its native
haunts, and th atory of how they
were killrd off told entertainingly.
Deer were shown slain and the pic
ture of one man (landing by aix deer,
vice In good work to teach the boys
to realxe how fast quail and deer win
disappear if not protected.
over th then wild that Intervened. rould hardly believe my eyes. The old
- Our first camp waa om 15 or Ü0 mes'iuite plains had a beautiful city
miles out from the station and I re- on lt- And the peculiar looking build
member well awaking from my leep ( kicking up above th grove, ws
on th ground In th middle of th i , great, big, up-to-date and a little
sight and looking right Into the ahead court hous. The "grove", the
glowing and Inquisitive eye of a big i cmi) 0f Cha. B. Eddy' prophetic
coyote. Th moon shone brightly and foresight, was great big shade treea
th coyote looked aa large aa a Run- iningr th street and acattered all
sian timber wolf, and upon aawkening Am0ngat them were the tasty home
my wife and who catching light of 0f tne natives, and here was 1 and tue
th wolf caught up the baby and put hurros corralled by a crowd. No
him between us, saying: "H is not cnipng place, no firewood, no "nuth
eoin; to get my baby," and th coyote in l0 mBi,e an old wanderer at home,
leisurely walked away Into th mes- And then, dog-gone me! if Mac didn't
quite Th third day w arrived at , ,llKc u rpht up to his own lovely
Carlsbad, or wher Carlsbad now nome turn th burros Into Ms lot
anda, for there wa no otwn then. wilh , Rtck of alfalfa to hnouc on,
Hotel Nymyer waa tne dispenser oi ,nd put m ito room all nxed up
food thing and w occupied th front mier than a fiddle, and the fir-t thing
room and proceeded to make ourselves harked me right up to a table with
at horn. There were no dwelling B cover whit as mow and a banquet
for man with a family and I, there- to hrouse on. I'd tire you to tell all
(ora, secured a lot on which I erected the wonderful change that have been
mcdeat residence the property now rnBde, Instead of going up to the
occupied by Major Bujac a an pring for a Jug of water on just
officii. It wa wild country then ,urn, f,U(.et and pure water from
cowboy, rattlesnakes, centipedes , a ,y,tem comes forth, and elec-
and taranlata war the principal in- trc lights and a real moving picture
habitant and you can Imagine that h0w, but thev ain't got no goat,
we "Under-fet" were quit wary in . Well air, the very first afternoon
wandering around in the dy time, j Millionaire Tracy, with hi 24 horse
much less at night. It waa no uncoiu- po,VPr, or 124. 00 Ford, I forgot whiih,
mon circumstance to see on step cat around and he. and me, and Mv
aidewl and without ceremony, and Ukel , passair out into the wilds over
w knew at one that he had lis. towards th plains, and the first thing
turned the meditation of one of th . nto , ! ,ifalfa patch with
"first famill". 1'v seen it done thorough-bred horaea and cattle brow-1
many a tim. W wr quit differ- iillr Bround like they ws at home, ,
ntial to thea people for if not th nd B nne "metal" brn filled with al- i
whirr of their rattle wa Immediate- fBfi Then lhfy barked me Irto the
ly followed by well, w didn't wait to nnMt yard of a fin summer residence ,
aee. I Just thot the "bux wagon" hud :
Our water system was up by the back-fired, but you can imagine my .
river Just below the big flum and BUIp,i5, when they raid it wa where)
we brot the needful down in a jug. their headquarters were. Shurkv I '
If w wanted omethlng stronger we fr)t ye trikin gthem for a job. bul I
went on up to Sevan Rivers, that j thot cf jenny and the baby and the, j
liavely little frontier town where the ..what ) a?" and 1 put my hand on'
aowboy reveled in dancing and whia- my dapper. I thot it was a little
key, and their boiueo up lun some- Fa,y ,ut they asked me to go ana
time found vent in "hooting" up m their peaches, so Tracy said:
th town. The only moving pictur 'HBn did you put the ticker, or some
show we had was when "your truly" thinii And Han said: "Yeth
ach evening tied hi nanny goat up t Hi r-.' and away we went ritrht slam
to a post, wher he milked and it bang up against a 7fi or "0 acre or
kicked, and I always had an audionc. chBra 0f pMrn trees that looked fine.
Many' th tim I've camped all by hut lhpy wgn't no peaches lust buds
my lonesome along the Pecos, between f0T m o ton crop. I was a little dis
Peco City and Roawell and drank th uppoiiiUd but som other tramp will
muddy water that was made palata-1 Ket ome f ruiti so jf, l r(fht. And
ble by hundred of cattle mired in its ; )h(, we wint through a nice little
quicksand. Yes air, I've seen them rhubrb" called La something or
In all stage of disappaearnce, to th other, and up to the concrete flume
tip of their horn. I acros the Pecos juat a little one, to
But these good old time coubln t r,rrv 25 or :0 feet of water 25 or
last W began to dig ditches, lay A0 feet w niean. and too deep ,,,.. , . p a
ut town, build dam. and hou and , t0 and in and .moke one' pipe. I "UNCLE J1MMIE" 'direction of Past (.rand Master E. A.
th population to Increas. Th cow-i ln.t Kon to say anything about ft FARRELL IS DEAD. Cahoon who conducted the funeral
boy had to go away off and it down . miioJ dollar dam. and a lake called - according to their custom, the only
or h'd b Juggd. . Avalon to hold a little water for the i.Llfe-l.og Friend of Jame SutherUnd deviation being in the rendition of
Thlnga got so far advanced that 1 wa' .1 w-enouirh to run a stern wheel ta Gathered to Hi Father at two of the favorite songs of Mr.
ordered to loeatt a railway from -1 aUamer in, but I will say that I was1 Lat. Imuble Funeral la Held ..uuienaria i.y tne iiaaonic yuurvetu
considerably surprised when tney an. imprnniTi i,,,,,... ....... ,,
.howed m Mr. McMillan', little lake' n , Ja. Hamilton, ( . t, Hill and liarry
a mil or two wld and th wat.r By a strange decree of Providence, Andrew, lhe songs were: rhoug,j
backed uo about half way to the two life long friends case from their our Sins be Scarlet," and "Weil
V ... tit. iLI.. ...J iU. itnaasal SurulK Vutlie SiuV I Allí .hfn Hi llMUUUtl "
Kocky mounUin. Meing a utile on earyoiy care. ...u ...... "-f , "v.. "
favor of the nomination
American from 'ortheaa
New .MtMrii, and in this romiectioa
am Of 'tul nnoi iiovroor lie iuit if ot-iiip
who recently suffered most rieiiuciitly mentiont d. i lie Imo-
lenani L'ovcrnnr ñus minie an aumir
able record in his office, ha presided
over the senate with dignity and abit
ity. and it if nrirucd that he i- Lisas
ideal man to put out airninst Mernanv
dex. - '
On the other liund theie is it 'troi.g
undercui rent of sentiment for. Slat
W. II. Walton for tnt nomU
rontrressmnn. Mr. Wahton
the democratic id guard.
Aldo Uopold' lecture was educa-ye and waking up after one of the Senator W.
tional and given in such a way that worst dcf.uU that it had sustained In " on."r 00
. . . 1 "iT u 1 1. .1 ...- recent veurs. The first stale luink ut is the idol of
a dThrmYelf VZoYo. l-r.a had Just blown up wUn -7:!
andalirmoK. "can bVser! tir KZ 'ST&t 2
. 'd-V-P'Jy Z thm ho.sil'axton w.re under a hot fire of cril,- ' and lime and labor to do so.
HEADQUARTERS FOR
VALENTINES
GOOD ASSORTMENT
AT POPULAR PRICES
EDDY DRUG STORE
-PENSLA
cism from all aides. Every democratic only that, hut he is a lawyer of
committeeman had a grievance and ability, a politiciin r roiif urntnala
pi actually all of them had a remedy "k'11 d a vote-gctter with tew equula
ro suggest. The culmination of one the state.
I of the stormiest political meetings There is more uncertainty ir regard
lever held in No w.Mexiro waa a per- to the nomination for congressman
sonal ariftimelit between Governor ,llu" ü' ""V ""'or of the cffini lor
I McDonald and J. 11. trial, which at which nomination will be made. S'cv
oi.e time bade fair to wind up in a ,,ul mnntns will elapse bt ' n lite
resort to the rules laid down by the convention next summer, an I .nié
late Marquis of tjueensbury. ineiit muy crytulli..e on .n: ,.i,t of a
I Now the democrat are talkinir lo.en men At the prrnl moioeol
about noilnng but harmonv. The dov
, oi peate is luying eirgs all aiound the
aceiiL-iy. The unterrilied seem to
I have come 10 a reali.alion of the fact
that if they are to have any remolte
chance to slay in ollice and retain
the emoluments and honors thereof,
they must nuit tbrlitinir each other
'and devise some effective method of
lighting 'the republicans.
June (or the Señale.
Two things seem to slick out a
self-evident as a result of the meeting
today. One is that Assistant Secre
tary of the Interior, A. A. Jones, is a
full-fledged candidate fo rthe demo
cratic nominaltion for United States
senator, and the other is lhatGovernor
McDonald is not either actively or pas
sively a raiididatte for any ollice, this
. .ir
Mr. Jones did not make the Ioiil'
it is all up in tlie air.
I'MIKD STATES AND
l.rUMAM IN AGKEF.MENT
ON VIIAL POINTS.
Lansing liwisls I'pon Slivhl 1 haigt
of I'l.riie iliiiiv Willi h Ue lleJ
Pul I p to llerlin for Ailioa.
eo to Eddy now Carlsbad but they
couldn't mak me build it in th lo
cation approved by th capitalists
from an engineering stand point I
wantad ft higher line.
So on bright moonlit night I silently
folded my tent and followed Horace
stuck on their country on can't be- designed for one who was called few The pall bearer, for Mr. Sutherland
vm nuun earner uiiiuvb iui uunh ii " j ., sav
lieve II the people imy.however,
U the segue! to the ltvei of Jame lline, J. i .Vok, T. ('. TillolHun, U.
. . -1 m .iu;M 71
uo wrti th. country. Sine then iter cent of hi optimiim, henc I will Sutherland, who died Monday even- r. ..ai.ani anu .mv. , uny.n.
-r r ..iv,l. tnr mv tlnmnta Ini and or Uncle J mm e rarreu, 1 ne pail nearers umciaiinir lor .nr.
TfíÜfá l-raii h,f J,,.-.-,, ,d who died last Farrel, jjjjj Me.ar, I- Richards
mind to GO THE OTHER WA Y-go I and th. Baby and tie undersigned in- evening at 00 . , . ock att St. Mary . Ed. 8 8..- H.nrj Russell I rank
t younjr mn, ana nere i em n ino-veiwiiceve m w " V . t . :".r - h;li
... lVk.H I tk. f KTim YnrV ñvnr nn t h At U KCIV linilIIIV ''' " K
w"r u.L u o t. ' i..i- u. .h.t I. hv th wav Droximutely W year ol age. He cam
rh.l..hov.rfour.p.nkln7tin.mul n the Artesian belt which from Ireland when a small boy lo- tUPID'S DARTS STILL FLYING.
It won't do'for a "milllonari hobo the livestock busines. 11 latter re
mn. a. th. Tucson CitUen call moved to California, wher h was
lm tn ha reanonsibl for too much, associated with
Kow. wall nowt I cam into th metro
noli leading two meek and lowly
burro on hitched to a "what is it? '
the other with pack. I got to Toyah
Mr.
in th
Jame buther-
livestock busi-
I.ast night at the home of the
bride's parent., Mis. Zula Harrison
and Harney lieach were united in the
, holy bonds of matrimony. The In idn
was on of the favorite daughters of
and Mr. Hank Harrison, and the
lie ha been a part of th bridegroom is a popular young ranch-
w " 1 . ... I .. .. ... m u Lt.H t. . a,.tl..lu.i fumlltf Mini that m.h llntk 1 1.. ........ ...... ..! I
iting. UranlaU drowned out and tndivid up tn last piec 01 punsin , - - - - - ....... ,,n
L..r.u . .hm.,. Mvl 1 nl.. .nd who have an rnnir of re- time, though he waa not related to Hved near Black river all their lives
but ftln't it lone.omT I Just felt lik ! source, to draw from, a great big them by blood ties
l I)J Will. I WIMI . m H ww m j ' I . ... I 11 S 1 1
I . . x a i.- .u ft 11 V.. i m 4. 1 ,!. Kjaoouaai (t' l8 nd father
what a chang., wlr. f.nce. and cat- not often that .uch a beautiful city ne... tarn to New Mexico w tb Mr. WB,
tl. .verywher. Coyote, gono, rat- lik. Carlsbad, wholesouled poople. who Anderson of th Anderson Cattl , Co Mr.
tier gon into winter quarters or vis- will take the last dollar one got, or in
trettlnir a long-handled shovel and
digging down into th root of
bunch of mesqulu to e if I couldn't
get rood old rattler to sing m
ong, lik on did on bright moon
light night when it cared th late
lamented "Sam" Judy nearly to death.
That wa down th Peco om 40
miles, but when I cam up few day.
ago, I couldn't ven find the place and
Hooked all around for it And they
v ruinad th country by their wlr
fence and alfalfa patch and railing
of cotton, kafilr corn and thorough
bred, and Tracy' brand of "furrln"
high ftteppln heep and th whtatl of
th engine, over th P. V. ha acarad
away U anUlop and buffalo and
n.mrl.Mnlr river with dam. and re.- named hi. eldeU boy, rarreu, alter future.
.ir. f .kv.klue water, all alone hi. old friend. Mr. rarrell wa. never tended
w. ww..- . - r r . i
Mr. Sutherland Bd will make their horn there in the
This wedding waa well at
A big dance, barbceue and
the trail to ret tangled up in, get married. 'supper was given last night by the
across my path. I'll forgive them thi 00 it happens mat in iuneri vi uncle or the bride, John btoUon.
time but, never again. most beautiful ei vice at th horn of Many of the Carlsbad people alund-
Adiost that i, farewell. I'v got thes two fast friends occurred thl e( the festivltie. but a wa go to
t0 q or I won't get ther. afternoon at the same hour, at th press no one ha returned to tell the
Affy your, home of Mr. Sutherland on South la. .tory. A hotter and mor compute
h. H. CLOUD. The service, were openeo. av miee write-up will b given next week.
'o'clock thi afternoon with a ong byi . o
n Mr. Goorg M. William., "Asleep In LICENSES TO WED.
Dwight Stephenson purchased an Jesus." A prayer wa orferad by I Feb. Hth, Mariou B. Daniel., and
auto last week and Tuesday h left Father Dunaun. Scripture reding Mis Effl Iren Lotsperch, both of
for Chickaaha. Oklahoma, where he by Rev. J. T. Mcllur. Prayer by , Arieala.
baa purcha.ed ffarag. Dwight r- Rev. McClui-. A long by Mr. Geo. Feb. 7th, Barni Beach and Mill
eently took th Cvil Servir examina- M. William, "Horn uay w u un- Zula Harrison, both of Hlack river,
tlton and (tood first, but prefer der.tand," Th service wa her Feb. 10, Raflel Duran and Mia Mar
busines of hi own. J turned over to th Maaona under th garit DuorU, both of Malaga.
I.I SII ANIX INCIDENT
NOW NEAR SKITl.l.MKNr.
lcrntorff Calla al Slate DepartaaeNt
and Then ( allies Final lerna M
Kaiser Government for Ap
proval. Washington, Feb. H. In substanet.
the teiilalive communication lr.u
liermany desitrned lo settle the Ijihí
tama case is acceptable to the Gnit!
journey from Washington to Santa l e States, liig'l admiiiislralion ollicials
for Ins health. In fuel lie seemed '.o said tonight that this government ia
he in the pink of condition on his ar- pievailing upon liein any to make lh"
rival here. Nothmir was -.aid by him coiuessious ui.d auieemenls, a.
in public on the subject of just whatt forth in the document, has achieved
particulurt sfaltsman might could, lecogniliton of uli high principles for
would or should bo elected to tne w.icii it lun contended in connect i(t
senate from New Mexico, but thai with submarine warfare.
wasn't necessary. All the faithful un- While the substance of the nrnni ..J
derstood. What passed between Mr. communication admittedly is salislue
Jones and the various democratic torv. minor chamrea to clarifv tU,
Itadeis gathered here in the numerous wording and in comicciiton with tbi
little talks thut were held in corners form which the formal document shaM
of the hotel lobbies only those who uke were auggeated to Count Hera-
were pames 10 tne conversaltlona lorff, the t.vinibn amhaasador, tj
know, and they won't toll. But any Secretary 1
gentleman sportively inclined may lay ,,f t,t United Stales in this connection
a het that the assistant secietary of were made known to the ambassa.kr
the interior will be in the race for lie after President Wilson had disrunseO
senatorial nomination without any ,h. with hi. rl....i ..,....
fear that he will have o cash in after vuii Bernslorlf immediateiy informwl
u vwwi, I ha u.- r.lu pu fit. I K . u u
no reason
why lhe change could not be nutttu
but explained in effect that as a pr
caulilon he thought be waa justified 111
-..i.. 1. . . ,u. ........- . k..
"íJü Ü- government to, final l Z
":( :.r :" v i i-pauh .m to ii.ru
In thi (onnecttion, an interesting
story is going the rounds her. The
wise ones declare that if it were lei.
lo Mr. Jones himself he would not l e
chance of future advancement in Dm
cabinet, to the uncertain haxard of a
hot political campaign next fall. Tho
story is that It is at th insistence of
President Wilson that the Jone can
didacy has been launched; that the
president has a vast respect fur 'lim
Mll.1 hi. ul.tlilU inl.i.lu -. ,J
wanUUie Us Vegas man in the up- , Art-i. N. M Feb 8. An eld.rly
per house to further his policies in tne "t " VM"";
event or hi. re-election to th preri
pulch sent to llerlin to
night and within about six days tl..i
resuiung formal communicatiuk e
pecled. TRAVELER DIFS OF
ITOMAI.NE POISONIM.
demy. It is figured that if Wilson is
re-elected this year there I better
than an even chance that Jones, stand
ing for the Wilso npoliclu. in every
detail, would be elected also. If Wil
son 1. defeated, Jone, would hav no
home ia in near Kansas City, Mo., ditil
luat night at a local hotel iioiii pto
maine poioniiig. Mr. llriirgs, who
waa on Ins wu y lie re to visit an old
friend. Dr. lion", was taken ill tn u
fiassenger truin near Koswcll and was
iardly conscious when he reached tins
cabinet job anyhow. If Wilson 1 "ty- Doctors who wore hurriedly
elected and Jones I defeated, aay Ilia railed when ho reached hnre diatr
loadors, Jones will hav no occasion nosed I I. case a. ptomaine poisoning,
lo worry over hi. political future, for He never regained consciousness after
ther are plenty of appointive jobs a being removed from th train.
good or betler than the on It has o
now that Mr. Wilson wuold b glad HERE ITtOM CARLSBAD,
to bestow upon him. J. A. Jones, S. Lucas and E. llen-
1 he Governorship. driika came up from their home at
Chief interest now renter about th Carlsbad to spend several days her
democratic nomination f.ir governor attending to busines. Interest Wd
Th committeemen and othtr leader netd.y'. Ro.weU Record.
