THE OWOSSO TIME
"OWOSSO THE CITY OF PUSH'
PAGES 1 TO 8
- vnL XXXYj! OWOSSO. MICHIGAN. FEB. 11. 1916. NO. 46
Grange Meeting.
" George B. Horton, former state grange
master, will give an address on "Co
nnarunn at the meeting of Owosso
Grange Tuesday. Feb. 15. in its hall
here. Members of Perry Grange will
put on a play entitled, "A Burlesque
Grange." The program will begin at
12:30. -
Boy Burglar to Industrial School
Mil ford Able, the boy burglar of
echool at Lansing. Monday, where he
will remain until he is eighteen years
of age. The boy was really a ward of
' the Livingston county court but the
refused to ao any
onthnrtHpfl there
thing about the criminal charge ana tloalar,y the latter They cla!m the
BY SUPREME COURT
Question as to Petitions for Local
Option Elaotion In Shiawassee
County Will Soon be
Finally Settled.
The supreme court will hear and de
cide the questions invoivea in me
refusal of the Shiawassee county board
of supervisors to submit the local option
matter to the voters in April, laio.
are
whether the petitions in New Haven
township and Owosso fifth ward were
in proper form and properly posted.
The argument by those opposing an
election will cover the multiple peti
tions and the manner of posting, par
me ouy uu,?,. .w: Th-XnHoMtobeoottothecourt
Tom taken to- the Industrial - iU .... . a
waived jurisdiction.
Deuetl-Bates.
uTrmdAv afternoon at 5 o'clock the
r,t Miu Blanche L. Deuell
lu&riiB&o w
a Fk Hafoa hflth of Elsie. tOOK
HUU Vyijruo mj. h.v"i
dace at the Episcopal rectory. Rev.
w H. Jordan officiated. The young
couple were attended by the groom's
brother and wire, Dr. ana airs. v,. v.
n.M of Orld. The bride la a school
teacher of Elsie and will continue her
work n ntil the clo3e of the school year.
Rh has visited here often and is well
Vnnwn. Friends extend congratula
tions.
petitions were not in shape so that an
elector could satisfy himself as to the
signatures and the location of the post,
lng is indefinite, and as to whether each
of the affidavits of posting referred to
the same petition.
The writ served on County Clerk
Nichols is returnable Feb. 17.
School Officers Meeting
Corunna, Mich., Feb 10, 1916.
To School Officers of Shiawassee
County:
In compliance with Act No. 112 of
the 1009 Session Laws, a meeting of the
echool officers of Shiawassee County
will be held at the Court House, Cor
unna, Wednesday, February 16, said
meeting to be called to order at 10:03
a. m.
"The director or secretary of each
WILL SHARE PROFITS
Owosso Casket Co. and Woodard
Furniture Co. Make Partners
of Employees.
As a reward for faithful and consci
Saginaw, Feb. 23 to 26
What is being exploited as the
greatest educational display of ani
mals and birds ever shown in Ameri
.n. wsr of New York, is now being
entlous serylce and as an Incentive for ! placed on the floors of the big audi-
increased efficiency, the Woodard Fur
niture Co. and the Owosso Casket Co.
have notified their employes of the
adoption of a profit-sharing plan where
tonum building, Saginaw, ior me
wild life show which will be present
ed to the people of the State of Mich
igan, Feb. 22-24-25-20. Besides the
THE W00LW0RTH
STOCK BURNED.
Fire Early Sunday Morning Makes Junk
of Big Stock of Five and
Ten Cent Stcre.
bv the employes will receive each year ! live and mounted animal life, which
an amount equal to between five and : is set under the auspices of the Sagi
ten per cent of their wages. naw County Wild Life Conservation
The plan, announced Saturday, went ' Association, assisted by the Michigan
into effect on January 1, and the first j Fish Commission and the State Game,
payment will be made in November, j Fisli and Forest Fire department of
1916, covering the period from January
1 to July 1. Thereafter the year will
date from July 1 to July 1, but the pey
ment will still be made in November.
The adoption of the plan was an
nounced in a small pamphlet given to
each man Saturday night. Ia part the
company said:
For months we have been studying
the Public Domain Commission, a
coterie of the world's most famous
lecturers will present in motion pic
tures the animal life of four conti
nents. For the banquet hall, "more game"
meetings, to be held in the after
noons, Feb. 24-25, State Game Com
missioner William H. Gates has secur-
a plan whereby employees, both men itd acceptances from many of the best
and women, mav Dart c Date in the' cm me nronaffatimr authorities in
Primaries March 13.
Thecltv commission has designated
Mondav. March 13, as the date for the
cltv primary to nominate a candidate
for Commissioner of Public Utilities to board Qr board of edacation shall
succeed John Rosevear, and for con- aU(md Ba(jh meetln(ft and the other
stable to succeed Frank Forster. members of each board of education
The candidates for supervisors will mftyattend One member of the school
be nominated at party caucuses or . , . - . cation who at-
primaries to be called later. The city tenda Buch meeUng shaU be allowed
primary would under the charter have pftJd twQ dollarg per day and actaal
been held at a later date, but in order ftTnAnaft. troim to and return-
i nt u Al o
to comply witn tne state w uiu frQm flftld meetlng, 8aid 8um to be
held twenty days before the election . f ffeneral fand In the treas-
instead of two weeks prior. L Df tke school district. The county
commissioner of schools shall issue to
each member in attendance a certificate
of attendance which shall be filed with
the director or secretary of the board,
and when filed shall serve as a basis , of
evidence for' drawing the order for
compensation and expenses of one mem
ber of the board."
Come prepared to ask questions about
Tnftt.tflra that are troubling you. ir
Llnabury-Moore.
The wedding of Miss Harriett Una
bury and Orbln L. Moore both of Owoa
- o, was solemnized at the home of Mr.
fia ilrr. EdrHearnT'nortii or vasiey.
Hnndav. Rev. E. J. Cross officiating
in the presence of Immediate relatives.
A wedding luncheon was served after
which the couple left on a short wed-
i a ... vu iq m v,a r mailers ia ro uuuuuus
ding trip, and after Feb. 18 ' wffl be ! repre.
home at 5f Harrison avenue, In this puMo lg tQ
city. The bride has been a teacner ana
wA.4 recently employed in the Union
Telephone office. The groom is em
ployed by the Donovan Jitney Service.
Sues for $10,000 Damaget.
Corunna, February 10. Mrs-.
Riioda Pearsall, a widow, aged sixty
vears. of New Lothrop, has begun
suit in the circuit court for $10,000
nMinst W. L. Colby, also of New
Lothrop.
Colby carries mail, and runs a bus
and dray line between Swartz Creek
and New iLothrop. Mrs. Pearsall was
a nnneer in his car some time
ago, and she alleges that he had it so
full of freight that she was compel!
.ed to sit on a board placed across the
seat. When the machine swung
around a corner, she was thrown out,
shA asserts, sustaining serious in
juries to her hip.
Teaohers Club Banquet.
The Teachers' Club of the Owosso
schools enjoyed and profited by a pa-
triotlc banquet held at the Central
school Tuesday evening, about eighty
being present. A three course luncheon
was served by domestic science pupils
who prepared it.
Superintendent M. W. Longman pre
sided as toastmaster and talks were
made by Fred Welch of the school j
hoard. Amv Reaua. Edith Boyce and
Principal O. II. Voelker. Miss Helen
Gibson rendered a piano solo and Miss
Susan J. Walsh sang, the program
being closed with songs by the entire
gathering.
UNION TELEPHONE CO. STOCK
present.
Yours for school work,
HOWARD SLOCUM.
Probate Court.
Corunna, February 10 A petition
has been filed in the nrobate court
bv Mrs. Jennie Hart, widow of Wll
11am H. Hart, deceased of Bancroft,
asking that the estate be probated.
It amounts to $10,000 in realty. Mrs.
Hart asks to be named administratrix
There are two heirs, Hazel aged thir
teen and Hilla Hart, aged eleven.
A petition has been filed asking
for the appointment of Chas. E. God
frey as administrator of the estate of
iMargaret Greenman deceased of Ban
croft. Mrs. Greenman left a will but
named no executor. The estate
amounts to $2,500, of which $25 is
Hvpn tn her sister. Jane Howe of
Saskatchewan and the rest to Susan
Hunter, another sister of Bancroft.
Sells Readily at a Premium Demand
Heavy Reoently and Sale May
be Discontinued.
Recognizing the fact that the Union
Telephone Co. is very conservatively
managed and that it has paid a, regular
quarterly dividend of two per cent for
a number of years past, it is not to be
wondered at that investors are willing
to pay a premium of one dollar per
share of a par value of ten dollars for
at that price the stock nets an annual
income of seven and a hair per cent
free from all taxation. The Company
gave notice to its stockholders recently
that some additional stock would be
M. J. Pnrcell of Saginaw, who w.w
Congressman Fordney's Democratic op
ponent in the 1913 election, is one of
the candidates for the appointment of
U. S. district attorney for eastern
Michigan. His chances are reported as
bright.
Dr. A. M. Hume spent the first of
the week In Chicago attending several
meetings of councillors of the American
Medical Association. He reports very
profitable discussions in which a num
ber of prominent physicians and several
government officials had a part.
The banks of the city will be closed
Saturday Lincoln's birthday. Rep
resentatlves of the banks will go to Du
rand to attend a gathering or group
seven of the Michigan Bankers' Assocla
tion, which includes the banks in Shia
wassee. Clinton, Eaton, Ingham. Liv
Ingston and Genesee counties.
Receipt is acknowledged of California
p'aperB from A. M. Bentley giving ac
r.onnts of the (rreat storms and the
immense damage done by water recent
ly about Los Angeles and San Diego,
Manv of the beautiful drives In the
southern part of the state were practi
cally ruined and these cities have been
almost cut off from the outside world.
C. O. Lorlng's dog picked up some
poisoned meat on Monday while mak
iDg tne round of Mr. Lorlng's mall
route and died from the effects within
five minutes. It is thou eh t that the
profits of our business. We have finally
completed one which we believe Is very
good and have decided to give it a trial
and if successful it will be continued
indefinitely, or until further notice
We feel that it is possible for us to do
great deal more for each other. We
believe that when a person puts his
best efforts into his work that he should
share in the profits of the Institution in
which he serves.
We want to encourage you to help
us manage and profitably operate this
business.
There are great opportunities in our
factories for men to study efficiency and
thereby improve the methods.
Following is the profit sharing plan;
After deducting from the net earn
ings of the two factories a reasonable
amount to be decided by the directors
for the use of the property and after de
ducting from the net earnings any
amounts deemed advisable by the direc
tors to provide for the . payment of
debts, improvements, enlargements, and
any t other - unforseen purposes, the di
rectors may declare the balance re
maining of the net earnings to be avail-
ble for special profit sharing cash divi
dends. These dividends when so de
clared by the directors shall be divided,
one-half to the employes and one half
to stockholders of the company.
Estimating from the past two or
three years of our business, the amount
payable to employes should be from five
to ten per cent of the pay roll. The
purpose of this plan is to make it even I
larger and we will be disappointed if it
does not succeed.
To participate in the profits a person
must be in the employ of either com
pany during the full period of time
covered by the statement, and at the
time the dividend is declared. Any
person laid off because of the inability
of the company to give him work will
share in proportion to the time he has
worked.
America.
EJ A. Mclllieney, who was instru
mental in havinjr Mrs. Russel Sajre
provide monev for establishing the
Marsh Island refujre, Louisiana; Com
missioner John Phillips and Secre
tary Kalbf us, Pa.; Harry Rogers
foremost game breeding authority;
Mr. Vernon Bailey. Chief Field
Naturalist of the Biological Survey,
Washington, D. C, and many of the
game commissioners of other states
will appear in the discussion. This
review of game propagating possibil
ities will assume the importance of
a national question.
Interesting in the floor exhibits will
be that of the Michigan Fish Com
mission. The Commission is arrang
ing to bring the whole paraphernalia
of a hateherv to the show, so that
the process of hatching may be pre
sented to public. Development of
many species of fish from fry to ma
turity will be shown. Aquaria tanks
will' 'display, the fish alive in their
various stages o growtji. .. '
All the indigeneous animal life of
Michigan will be displayed, alive or
mounted, and a feature of the after
noon programs to be given in the big
assembly hall which seats 4,500 per
sons will be ascenic production of
American Game Birds, painted by the
world's greatest bird artist, Louis
Aggasis Fuertes. This feature will
be presented by James McGillivray,
Educational Bureau, of the Game,
Fish and Forest Fire department.
Under the direction of Augustus C.
Carton, Secretary Public Domain
Commission, a forestry exhibit will be
set by Marcus Schaaf, State Forester,
in which growth will be illustrated
from the seed and seedling to the
merchantable tree.
Specimens of deer, elk and other
animals and the bird life of the
Michigan game refuges will be
Much of DamageJWae by Water-
Building Scorchad, But Fire is
Confined to Single Floor
A fire of unknown origin, possibly
from electric wires, started early Sun
day morning In the Woolworth five and
ten cent store at 119 Noith Washington
street, and ruined the greater portion
of the stock with a loss of from $4,500
to f 3,00i) aud damaging the buildings
belouging to E. F. Joslin on Washing
ton street and J. ' H. Frieseke on. Ex
change street to the extent of $500.
The alarm was given by Mrs. Bridget
Freeman, night operator at the Bell
telephone office located over the Allison
jewelry store in the next building
south, who emelled smoke, and finally
saw it coming through the floor, bat by
the time the department arrived the
stock was in flames and the front win
dows had broken allowing the flames
to shoot out across the Bldewalk. The
deoartment nlaved two streams of
water on the fire for an hour, soaking
everything, including goods stored in
the basement which were not opened,
except the portion of the stock kept in
the Exchange street front, which was
not badly damaged either by fire or
water. The fire evideatly started near
the front of the store and burned rap
idly.
The adjoining buildings were not
damaged nor the Masonic lodge room on
the third floor, but goods of the Wool
worth Co. on the second floor were
damaged by smoke.
The Woolworth company which con
ducts several hundred stores in the
country, carries its own insurance as
the cost with companies is so heavy on
the kind of goods carried. The prem
iums paid In 1914 It is bald were one
hundred thousand dollars and the losses
practically nothing. -- -
The damaged stock was dumped into
the street Mondav. and hundreds of
people old and young, carried away
articles more or less valuable. The
work of refurnishing the store was
immediately started and the company
will open for business In a few days.
Extension
brought to the floors of the show.
Shiawassee County Bar Association. Kvir. nerhans. in the historv of
Nineteen of the members of the America has so manv of the foremost
Shiawassee County Bar met at the speakers on subjects of Natural his-
home of Attorney and Mrs. Seth Q. tory been placed on one program, as
Pulver, East Exchange street, Tues- onthat which covers the evenings of
day evening, and partook of an elab- v,, o-i.oi
orate five course dinner, which was
served by Mrs. Pulver, assisted by
Mrs. Geo. E. Pardee.
After doing justice to the fine din
ner, and while enjoying the good ci
gars furnished by the host, steps
sXorman McClintock, with his new
and remarkable moving pictures of
the bird life of the Gulf roast; Carl
Akelcy, National museum of Natural
historv, with elephant hunting and
were taken to oerfect an organization other African subjects; Prof. Wilfred
to be known as the Shiawassee Coun- II. Osgood of the Field museum, with
ty Bar association. A constitution moving pictures of the fur seal rook-
and by-laws were adopted and signed cries and other speakers of interna-
by all those present. Those attorneys tional note are scheduled by W. B.
who were kept from attending by bad Mershon, President Michigan Wild
roads, absence from the city and so Ufc Conservation Association.
on, are expeciea 10 Become meraueraj Snp(.ial lrnins ore l)t,:ns, ciarn,tPred
by 8jxrtsmen and it is expected that
of Time on Ann Arbor
Shop Contract.
The committee on the Ann Arbor car
shop proposition reported to the Im
provement Association at the luncheon
Tuesday that as a result of a conference
with Vice President Towsley it was de
cided to recommend that the request of
the Ann Arbor for an extension of the
present contract be given for a term
two years from the date of the time
mentioned In the same. Mr. Towsley
stated that the new shops were much
needed and It had been hoped that pre
vlous to this time work on the same
would be well along but that financial
conditions had not permitted the road
to begin work on the shops proper, that
$13,000 had already been expended on
the site and the balance called for by
the contract would be provided at the
earliest date possible. He also reported
that the pay roll of the company at
Owosso for the past three months
amounted to $126,000. The Association
granted the extension and a new con
tract a little more favorable than the
old one will be entered into.
UNION TELEPHONE CO.
Shiawassee County Farmers' Institute.
The Shiawassee County Farmers' In
stitute will be held In Owosso Friday
and Saturday, February lb and 19.
1916, at the Congregational church.
Leo C. Reynolds of Owoeso, is president
of the County Farmers' Institute So
ciety, and Clayton T. Cook of Owosso,
secretary. Newton Burns of St. Louis,
will be conductor.
The program is as follows:
riilDAT FOKENOON, FKD 18.
9:45 Opening remarks by Leo C.
Reynolds, president Shiawassee County
Farmers Institutes.
10:00. Maintaining nnd Increasing
Soil Fertlllty-L W. Oviatt, of Bay
City.
10:30. Discussion Wm. Morrice Jr.
Morrice; Fred Love, Owosso.
11:00. Practical Land Drainage
Newton Burns, St. Louis
11:30. Discussion Mark By in g ton,
Venice; Chas. VanCampen, Corunna.
AFTERNOON.
1:00. Question box in charge of L,
W. Oviatt.
Music by Miss Dona Richardson.
1:30. Making and Feeding Ensilage
Newton Burns.
00. Discussion George Winegar.
Morrice; E. P. Sherman, Owosso.
2:30. Alfalfa and other Legumes as
Forage Crops L. W. Oviatt.
3:00. Discussion Henry Moore, Co
runna; Clinton Middleton, Owosso.
3:30. Feeding and Care of Poultry
for Egg Production -Prof. C. H. Bur
gess, East Lansing.
4:00. Discussion Fred Crowe of
Owosso; Chas. Greenwalt, Owosso.
EVENING.
7:15. Music.
7:30. The Best Crop on the Farm-
Newton Burns.
Music.
8:30. Points on Poultry Husbandry
(illustrated) Prof. C. H. Burgess.
SATURDAY, FEB 19.
Forenoon.
9:55. Symposium. Getting the Most
from the Be6t Crop Newton Burns.
10:15 Discussion: Beans -A. B. Cook
Owosso; wheat Allen Driscoll, Du
rand and W. F. Grout, Morrice; pota
toes, Frank Clark, Vernon.
10:45. - Growing ., and, Handling,, the
corn crop L. W. Oviatt.
11:15. Discussion P. W. Mattoon,
Durand; John Carrutbers, Bancroft.
11:45. Business meeting of the
County Institute Society, reports, elec
tion of officers, etc.
AFTERNOON.
William Cook, president County Far
mers' Club, Association chairman.
1.00. Question box in charge of
Newton Burns.
Music.
1:30. Power on the Farm, Prof. H.
H. Musselman, East Lansing.
2:00. Discussion Clayton
Owosso.
2:30. Breeding and Care of Farm
Horses, Newton Burns.
3:30. Discussion Elmer Hnbbard,
Ovid; Robert Peters, Carland.
3:30. Hogs as Mortgage Lifters. L.
W Oviatt.
4:0). Discussion Amos Parmenter,
Vernon; James McBrlde, Bjrtoo.
Thomas,
at once. II. H. Pulver, of Laings
burg, had the most years of practice
to his credit of any attorney present,
having been admitted to practice In
1869.
Officers for the year were chosen
as follows:
President Austin E. Richards, of
Corunna.
Vice President
way of Durand.
Secretary Ellis
OW0S3O.
Treasurer Nell
Owosso.
Before leaving a rising vote
upwards ot oU,uuii persons will see
the show. Admission is free day and
night.
-Fred
II. Walsh
Aoorpts Call to Calumet
Rev. C. II. Hanks has accepted the
call extended bim from the Flrst Con-
J. North- kgregatlonal church of Calumet, Mich,
and will begin his labors there within a
F. Wilson of few days Shortly after his resignation
'asnastorof the Owohso church Rev.
of , Hanks was invited to occupy the pulpit
' previously a number of 3 ears ago and
01 hnd at that time declined a call to the
thanks was given the host and host- pilstorate The two Congregational
ess for the dellgntrui evening pru harcta1J ln Calamttt have united and
vlded. I wjji make a strong church and with
Architect ETBowd Inspected tho?". Hanks as pastor should be a great
work on the armory Monday and gave force for 'goo, In the community The
the
work on the Inside finish. A week or
ten days will be required to obtain the j
material when a
force of carpenters
Prospects are that
follow Mr. Hmka to hi new field.
Mrs. Uanki and sons will remain in
Owohho untll the clone of the school
year to give C trios Hanks an oppor-
for tale and the demand has
nrh that it is possible that the poison was put out to rid the neighbor
1.1 1 uu u.mn .wutn v, I u.A rt otaa Tir Afti en whih ran not mK h tint to work
tintlPfl Will uH Wliuuinn u nnuiu nguuii. uvjuv v r ...... i ... , . , . . ,. i i 41
time .hls certainly shows confidence ' be too strongly condemned as It is never the building will be completed about tnnlty to complete hi work in the
. .. l t tU. frmnanr bnnnrn nrhut thft r8U Ul 1U17 be. ' APHl lSt. uign (tuwi.
Willing to Remove Poles on Certain
Streets-Commission Favor
able to Plan.
The Union Telephone Co. is the first
of the companies haying pole and wire
lines In the business portion of the city
to signify its willlnguess to remove the
same in accordance with the request of
the Cltv Commission. While there is
some difference between the suggestion
of the Commission and the plan out
lined by the Telephone Co. It is so
slight that it Is practically certain that
the Commission will accept the terms
of the Company. The position of the
Company is outlined in a letter which
is printed in the proceedings of the
Commission on page seven of this issue
It might also be added that the action
of the Union Telephone Co. was de
elded upon in October last the day
following the passage of the resolution
of the City Commission and that but
for a day's delay in holding its meeting
the Telenhone Co. would have acted
first. As It is the Company acted
without knowing that the Commission
had done so.
Mr. and Mrs. F. W. Ryen and chil
dren are In Almont f jr a f jw days visit
with her parents.
WOMEN'S CONGRESS.
The Women's Congress will be held
at the Congregational church, Satur
day, Feb. 19, 1016. Mlsd Stella Potter,
Bancroft, is chairman. Mrs. C. L. Bar.
ber of Lansing, will be conductor. The
program:
1:00 Opening remarks by Miss Stel
la Potter, chairman.
Mntlc.
1:30. Home Nursing, Mrs. C. L. Bar
ber, Lansing.
2:15. Discussion.
2:45 Saving Steps and Strength In
the Household, Mrs. E. W. Bilhimer.
3:15. Discussion Mrs. Q. M. Get-
man.
Election of officers.
Music and adjournment.
Farmers' Week, Agricultural Col
lege. Feb 28- March 4, 1916.
The Shiawassee County Farmers'
Club Association will hold its annual
meeting in conjunction with the Coun
ty Institute society.
L L. Conn was in Farwell on busi
ness. Tuesday.
The United Commercial Travelers of
Owoseo meet Saturday and expect some
of the state officers to be present at the
gathering.
The Brotherhood class of the Congre
gational Sunday school is in charge of
the arrangements for a supper to be
served by the men of the church cn
Tuesday evening, Feb. 22, In the dining
rooms. After the supper a program of
Interest, including an address by an
out of the city speaker, music, etc., will
be. given in the auJitorium. Buy a
ticket for the occasion and do not fail
to be present.
IQlDe Ittiuio wi kuo j i - ..
