Wr8p i' i"" W 7W W
frftsMIKIl
urw
F. t
&W. ,
kt
i
tj? Sumittg Herald
maiiaTII COUNTY'S
KLAMATH FALLS'
OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER
official newspaper
.-, ,- vx&mMumaaiKrsm?iK4masut3Jtfxsf .t-.-.. .. im.
j - a..
Tniih V-
.o. U.UIH
KLAMATH FALLS, OREGON. FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1916
I'rlcc, Fire OeaU
Garrison Resigns as Secretary of the War Department
Wl4MiMWMi il!..!. ,
.it '
SPLIT OVER PLAN
FOR CONTINENTAL
ARMY IS SERIOUS
DOYLE'S HEARING BATTLES RAGING iNO PLACE LIKE
SET FOR MONDAY ALL ALONG WEST
THEATER OF WARI-
KLAMATH
HALL
formal ciiakei: is ii(i:ii:iti(i:i)
Wi.HXHT MAN AC'ITSED OK
Mit(ii:it women to m: nnt-
I CD IS KLAMATH FALLS
IIOTII MIDEtf MAKING VIOLENT
attacks
LOCAL HOTEL MANAGERS HACK
i after getting caught in
NEARLY EVERY FLOOD DIS
TRICT IX TUB SOUTH
(IKNKIUli M "TT APPOINTED TO
kill tiii: vacancy jnoii
TIliHTV DAYH
t'..lim Sri nu IHnVirntf Willi
th l'irlilni Hi-unnllnic Prtmid.
nr flnit, mill Ou-f till' Pllllfiillin
yuiMli'ii, 'in,tnr mill l-'lrl .
Muni Mi-p Oul HlenW l ("hum
f Sn,.illiii II itli XmiIhii.
Inlltil l're hen lie
WAHIHWTON, l. .'.. IVI. !
I'olkmluK illffeirnn-. ullli Prrld-nt
WIMi n-imnllim tlio inrpamlnc"
IKrnin, Sn n Inry Llnilley M. GnrrL
mi sad AMnni Herniary Hrrt-kMi-ridge
uf ih "! department, iTlitiitMl i
Ut night. Thr rmlgtMllona urrr- nr-.
rested. '
Todsy President WIImhi formally,
ilnlgnatrd (ivnrrnl 8cH, Ilia urtuy.
thief uf ktnir, i actinw Mcprtary of
r rr n (n-rlod of. thirty ,Uay. r
imill (iiurlMiu MiwvMMir U t
pointed,
Garrison differed with Che president i
mer flit miitlm-ntnl unity plan, it-
llnntil by (liiriUon. WlNtui dvclrtrrsl
tltat he nmld mil "lrrevin-nbly" rii
itone tfU plan. ,
(Isrrlnon nlhu declared tint Clnrktt
amendment to the, Philippine bill,
granting Imlcix'iulunco In (our yeiirn, '
nr wrong, unit ihnt.lio bMI6vd the
ITMldent Hliotild lojert it. Wllnon
Tlio iircllinliiury livurltit; for Wll- ,. . . . ' .
Hum IJoylo. hold o., cl.arKc or iiiur-',,,, iulUt Im r"kv "' "
dorliiK Mnry A. Wilcox aud tier iIuukIi
tur, MiikbIij Joiio, In l.ariK-'H Valley
TucHiliiy mornliur, will bu held heforo
Jimtlui of tho IVaro Ciowcii Moiulny
inenilm: 'I'Iki liidinii.-itlon, etc , woru
.H licit iut I I K lit
Coioiiit Knri Wliltlock Iiiin lievii
iiimhli to Ki't miy dullnlto truce of any
idiitlvi'H of tin- two ili'iul women.
They lll bo linrled hurt thin nftor-
noon or tomorrow. lto CIiiih T
llnul I'omlnriinK tin xvrvli'uii
After Terrific All Night I'IkIiIIiik In
Snow, mill .Other Strategic I'oIiiIn
CIiiiiiKo Hands .Setetiil TImii lliit
lit' one Hiri'iiiN From Artolw (o
Siinlli of Arm.
"And glad to get back, believe me."
So carols Elbert B. Hall, aa be'
grasps the hands of bis fellow towns-
I'nlteil 1'iesB Set Ire
LONDON.' 'Feb 1 1 - The buttlo
zone la spreading nil along the west
ern front from Artols to south of Ar
ms. In ono of the most violent activi
ties uf the war. Hotli sides tire malt-'
Ing offpnslvi' .moves, and several po
sitions lmvo repoaieilly changed
' hands.
Despito lieavy riioh, there was
terrific fighting on Vlmy Heights, nnd
along the Homme This continued all
night, and resulted in the capture of
MHML some positions on tho heights by the
Ormnns.
The French have thus fur failed tol
recapture their lost positions on Vlmy
...ill c.iiitti tt IIia RnniTnn iirrnrdlne' in
...II. t.vr..... . uw w....., - .... -
. 0crmnudvlp.v- ,, . -v .
i No new gains nro claimed by Paris
j A generous response to the nPIHl,0 Artillery 'firing is unusually
,!! iiiu iui u.v .. -..... "-I'-' j holvy .,i ong the front
FUNDS FOR JEWS
ARE PODRING IN
WITHOPT AWIITIVG SOLICITA.
TIOX or cemmittki:
pi:opli: siiHscitiiii-: v to,
Till: liOOH CAUSI-:
idi-lft :
Br vSVfl
HsBi "- 'jiHbvsBBI
I N!HflHHK
K. U. Hall
ENGLAND SEES A
NEW CRISIS FOR
UNITED STATES
United Press Service
LONDON, Feb. 11. OfflcialH (lecture tluit Imucn as grave as the Ltul
t.mia controversy may arise between the United States and Gcnnaay aad
Vnsliin as a result of the announcement by the Teutonic allies that all Mb
iiinrlncH have been ordered to toipelo 11H armed merchantmen without
giving warning.
The allies uilinoi yield their riglit to arm their mercantile vessel)
lor defensive purposes. They contend that such a practice has long bees
universally recognized.
It is believed that if any armed merchantmen of the allies Is torpedoed
. Iille Americans are aboard, the United States will act promptly and de-dilvely.
United Press Service
WASHINGTON', D. C, Feb. 11. The diplomats of the Teutonic nations
in re hope the state department will soon disclaim responsibility for Amer
icans traveling aboard armed merchantmen.
It is understood that this hope is partly baved upon information from
the state department.
The llritish ambassador, Sir CecilSpriiig-Itice, uill probably take ttw
matter up with Secretary Lansing, giving the viewpoint of the allies, who
contend that their ships have a right to arm for defensive purposes.
Llnilley M. (iirrlhoii
In the war swept regions of Burupo li , H0 wnch U become fam0U8
cpriuin in luamain rans, nen ,tn lfco pre(!0lt wflr ag ft BtratCRlc
rommllteo makes Its requests for do
point, was takon from the French by
inpliiltloe .Unlay. Tim Iioiibo cotiim't mitioiiM Into today. Without waiting .. ...,., vestexdav. and retaken
.. .JII prnciejl with Its own plnn of J for tb-j arrlvnl of the commlltoo, the JgUr ,)y ())e Fnmc,, Tho crater near
military roirKiiiiiaiioii, nny auo.tououiuK Hcniiscriiuioiii c immu
Inllmnteil that tho coutluotilnl army today-
plan has boon dollnltely sbelvod
t'nlU'il Prciis Service
M-;W YOIIK, Fob. 1 1. Onrrlson
cnnio to New York Inst night to visit
riK'Mlc Ho will not dlmuiBH his ro.Mg-
Van itlporllros 20.00
KUmutli llnrdwaro Co .. 10.00
(leorgo J. Walton 5.00
II. S. Origsby B.00
Oscar Larson 2.00
When people consider that tho
men today, following his sojourn in'
California. And advices from the
White Pelican Hotel nil show that
Mm. Hnll ably seconds these senti
ments. .
int. ft. .11, 1 1ha ! In n.nrtm.
Nouvlllo also changed hands several I .,. " r.' c n, ...
times, following many hand to unmir"; b"'Ub "... , ,, """,
. ... linen uuiuuiuuiie. iu mo nun, iuojj
HeHIn admits the loss of .oj ero away they were almost contln-
. t nil in Min ctnrmo nmi nninrn iiihv -
YOUTH CONFESSES
TO THE BURGLARY
TWKNTY - YllAlt - OLD
KIllKGH IS HELD TO THE'
(ilt.VND JURY TELLS OFFICER v
ifE nXTERED HOME !
UNION PACIFIC AND ESPEE
DECLARE USUAL DIVIDENDS
trenches south of Somme.
declined to do tills, nnylnic ihnt wlillo )U), uut told tlio iiovp.tp. men '..UOO.OOO Jews In the lighting
he thought tho action .was v'unyfso dint he had retired from poll'lw, and 70110 are practically paupers, their
now," It was his duty to accept tho,cotild not consider tho Idea of stump-'holdings taken from thorn by tho gov-
ornments, their foodstuffs comman-
' ...III....... ntt-tArLaita ..fill HlA
I an, not candldato for th Kov. -- ' - ' - " '
" t I I . ,.. ... !.,..,,. 11 ii I,,, i wuiiioii aim i"'" "" "" '-"
Ho wnn regarded w'"'"i --;. -"""; ,... 0Bsly i,c HCon that there Is dlro
VfOtllll HOI accept Jl ll I woro uuimv...
Juilimcnt of both houses of congress'1 asnlnst Wilson
The resignation of Onrrlson crefttud
great Ncnsntlon
oiAn ,.r ti... ...H..A... ...... 1.. a..i :
. ."" v m CTl """ "",. crtmcato of oloctlon. I I
wraort men In tho cabinet. r,un)0 my Iftw practice."
In a statement to tho United Press I .
Awlilant Boorntnry Ilreckonridgo nnld I
COUPLE HELD ON
SERIOUS CHARGE
tally In rain storms, and before they
reached San Francisco on tho return
trip they had been caught and delayod
by floods times innumerable.
Klamath Falls looks better than
ever to the Halls, and they are both
'positive that this will be their perraa-
l.iient address.
'I'nltcd I'ross Service
A full rnrifnslnn wna mad, last NEW YORK, Feb. 11.-
ntoni to'nooil for every possible aid that can! SHERIFF'S OFFICE ROUNDS UP
Sic extended It was toward this ond MAy Axn WOMAX CHARGING
thnt President Wilson, tho governors;
.of all statos nnd tho mayors of hto!
that his objection to building tlio nn-4 "Al" VNt ,,"," '",M' 'r'l"t argo cltlei Usuod proclamations, urg-.
nc the American noopio 10 no muin
tlon's military policy upon mllltln, as I United Pross Service
wnson favors, Is thnt tho plnn' Is' DALLAS, Tox., Fob, II.
STATUTORY CRIME HEARING
NEXT WEEK '
NOTED FINANCIER
DIES IN NEW YORK
kuu Club hero tonight.
"fundamentally beyond nny compro
nnse."
lust who will succeed Garrison as
wretary Is (( mnttor of niurh con-
lecture. It Is'corlnln.tlio man will bo'wolgh In nt 13G ringside,
ueinocrat, and among thoso mon-
"onea aro Hccrctnry Lane of tho In-,
terlor Department, Cougresimun
Hnerlcy, ex-dovomor Wilih of Mnssa
. nstu, JiniBon Hurnion and Alva
Aaini, '
II U iUted'thnl Ouuoral Oootlials Is
not considered. A dark" horso la
'ooked for by hrnny.
'"i'nc reRlgnatlon at Gnrrloon will
not pffect action by congross," snld
'nllrraan HnV Of llm hnuM mllUnrv
-Red Hon-1 utmost to nllovlnto this most terrlbloj
ih.rHim. homo crown lightweight, nnd stnto of nffnlrs
Stnnfoy Yoktirn, tho Denver "Apollo." The Jewish pcoplo of tho United)
will box llftoen rounds before tho Ker-.i-tnton hnvo been working llko Trojans
They will on this relief work since tho outurcaK
of tho war, but tho problem has be-
Icomo so serious that they have been
i -it-.i n ..nt I., tlin tinnnln nf
1 ouipeiieu u iii'i'vtii v t- 1
nn iinliotl Stntoa for aid. This is tho
first llmo In history America bus evor
"All Hands Around"
United I'ross Service
DALLAS, Tox., Fob, U. Half a
hundred bankers from Now York, 8t,
Louis, Chicago, KniiBnH City, Oklnbo
mn City nnd other out-of-stnte polntB
today Joined tho Texas bnnkora In
tholr flnnunl "swing around tho
group." Tho fifth stato district moot
ing wiib hold hero today.
Arrest of Lumbermen for
Drunks Starts Something
been nskod to nld tho Hebrow race
Donations can bo left at tho K. K.
K Store or K. Sugnrman's. and will
locelvo prompt attention.
HOSE TO GENERAL MANAGER OF
WESTERN UNION FROM MES
SENGER HOY WAS ACTIVE UP
TO THE LAST ,
Charged with lewd co-hubitatlon,
Cluules ICnman and Mary Bedell wero
nrosiv-d this morning by SherlfT Low
nnd Deputy Lloyd Low. They weret
brought before Justice of tho Peace
Gpwon, and their hearing was set for,
next Friday.
Enmnn is at liberty under 1600 United Press Service
bonds. Tho Bedell woman was al
lowed to go upon her own recognisance,
BANKS, OFFICES
CLOSE TOMORROW
WHITE CHOSEN
AST
The Union
nlclit bv Floren Kriech. the 20-vear- ' acl-c loaa "eciarea 113 reguwr -
old youth under arrest on charge oftPer cent Quarterly dividend oa com-
burglarlzlng the home of Will Irwin. ,i,u" slutK auu luc """-""" "
near Bonanza. This was made to Dep- dent ot 2 l)er cent on Preferred stock.
uty Sheriffs Low and Ulrlch. The Southern Pacific declared Us
..,,.,.. ,. ,. . . tegular 1 ? per cent quarterly dlvl-
Kriegh told them that he entered "
the Irwin homo by opening a window, 1 l"
that ho took a watch, bottle of llquor1
nnd some glovea, also something to( Manitoba, Canada, women have pe
eat. The watch chain, he said, he tittoned the premie:- lo tilve them the
threw away, and he also tried to dls-'r.'ght of suffrage.
Extensive Improvements
PlannedbyC-O.Company
HIRD
MN
Allowing the arrest of, three log
wr "Mt night in
jail. This morning they wore lined
a local roomln. 5 W'
houi.. . . Z Late this afternoon District Attor-
w oeing drunk and disorderly, ' ney Irwin took the matter n hand, to
l tuthnriiu. .. ... .. .....lniMriiiii if tho llauor was nurohaBed
--...... , -umi a H'll""-"" " :.-'-' .. 17. -,...
OHSERVAXCE OK LINCOLN'S
IHUTHDAY AT SCHOOI TODAY
PROVED HIGHLY INSTRUCTIVE
PROGRAMS
VETERAN WILL REFEREE THE
HOLT HETWEN WIXLARD AND
MOHAN, WHICH HAS UEEX SET
FOR MARCH 8TH.
NEW YORK, Feb. 11. Belvldere
Brooks, vice president and general
manager of the Western Union com
pany, died suddenly this morning at
his homo of heart failure.
' For several months Mr. Brooks has
been in ill health, but continued his
'duties. He worked as usual yester-
I dny, but this morning, feeling rather
poorly, ho remained at home. Death
I camo Just before noon.
Mr. Brooks was born In 1859, and
'entered the service of tho Western
Union ns a messenger boy. From this
position he rose to the place ho occu
pied at his death.
SAN FRANCISCO. Feb. 1, Com-.growth of tho large, sparsely settled
nvtp. tributary to the company lor at
least twenty years, was the first care
-si ror poMibu.tiinM......
' an"1 Pwt th, -night la'tjii cty
here, or If tho men visited Dorrls,
Toward that end. be subpoenaed all
three, end Is questioning them regard
ing the matter this afternoon.
In obsorvouco of Lincoln's birthday
tho local bunks, tho postofllco, county
onices nd city offices will be closed
tomorrow.
Patriotic exoiclsea were held at tho
schools today. . At all of these pro
grams, numbers pertaining to Lincoln
formed the bulk of the exercise".
United Pi oss Service
NEW YORK, Feb. 11. Charley
Wlilto has been chosen as the referee
for tho ten round bout between Jess
Wlllurd and Frank Moran, His ap
pointment was approved by fighters
and promoters,
Tho bout has boen definitely set for
March 8th.
Whiilock Is Candidate.
Earl Whltlock Is again oaudldate
for coroner. He' filed his petition for
tho democratic nomination yesterday
nt the clerk's office. So far, nobody la
montloned as an opponent, and Whlt
lock may be elected with no opposi
tlon whatever, as he has proven him
self, extremely capable in his work.
.Gas meters are now being installed
i by women la Berlin.
plete rehabilitation of the system by
making Improvements, completing
construction work at present and
making additions to plants has been
undertaken by the new" board of di
rector of tlio California-Oregon pow
er company, which is said to be a
promising utility covering a large
area in California and Oregon.
The new year found the company
with an uncompleted power plant at
Codco. on the Klamath River, on
which more than, $1,000,000 had been
expended, while the earnings of 1915
had run about 11,000 a month below
the fixed charges for the year. Under
the circumstances the company was
compelled to default on Its January
Interest coupon on the $3,165,000
California-Oregon power 40-year, 5
per cent, first.and refunding mortgage
gold bonds; although the -interest on
fl,206,000 of underlying Issues haa
been paid regularly.
To raise funds to build the dam on
the Klamath River to an altitude of
sixty feet, which would provide ample
power to take care of the prospective
I pose of the watch while he was being
held by A. D. Marshall at Olene,
awaiting the arrival of officers.
-4-- The youth waived bis rights to a
hearing this morning, and was bound
over to the grand jury. His parents
were formerly residents of Chlloquln,
and his father brought a damage suit
'against one of the sawmills there over
FLOHEXithe lobs of an arm.
i
t
I'J
1
of the new board ot directors, headed
by J. D. Grant.
Through the solicitation of the six
principal stockholders of the company
the holders of more than 90 per cent
of tho outstanding junior bonds have
agreed to wait Ave years tor their In
terest, and then accept preferred stock
for the total amount thereof, com
pounded.. This arrangement will be submitted
to the railroad commission, and mean
while the stockholders are assessing
themselves liberally to complete the
first section ot the dam and to liqui
date the floating Indebtedness.
Assessments of $1.30 a share have
leen already paid, and further assess
ments to the probable amount ot 8 -additional
will be levied from tlmo to
time.
The company represents a merger j
of tho Siskiyou Klectrlo Power, tkt
Siskiyou Electric
the Rogue Hirer
Power aad U0&yf
Kleetrle, iitlt
i.Vil
'.
Will lVBW W V" -.-- f - 'S 'Im V ' UT
Klamath Power compailee, l:$$;
&-.
.
nniun..l. IMnnn.SlMijam4.SMaas
umiiviuia w"r ...r. 11 1 j;-p r,Z't,if.v.'.
t.U.rf nn nlMrll?lUit. 1
" ' "" v-'vg'
"
j
fj'i
VJ
pas.
