gt v-np.
tv
FINANCIAL EDITION
lleiaier
NIGHT
EXTRA
Jcimttn
NIGHT
EXTRA
:crr
WW!j(p'I9'l!jH.,l!IW"i mw-rint!'
vol. n NO. 95
PIILLADJSIiPIIIA, MONDAY, JAtfUAKY 3, 191 G.
Corimani, 1018, t ini Pnito ttvaa Commht.
PRICE ONE CENT
THOMAS B. SMITH TAKES OATH AS MAYOR OF PHILADELPHIA
- - v "'iSi'SK, fjfwi'MPRfllME V & X ""edHNL.JIFrv. - JSMK&I
B i ' MiMfflW tfili i Mm v Win llTlBIBWliii In iff "f p-r-p ilwml mrm, iff nr TTIff liiiiii illh1'
H n i MBBffTMM M iiM 'liiiBlpir ' MiTrlTrH W ' TrTi iiiT n Mir 1 Ttwinffirlr TgnB
4 IliiniiWW " MM IllflWH i ll ' ! nil ill nimiUBilffi JW M I i 1 1 1'W i i i I ' IIM iiii , m lil
H ! v:Mii:
BHHJraimfflWmffill3HwK tiff '" TTWrMrr''wiuwM ;!1a.3BP'3ClHlMHlHK'ttiHI
VHH3CTBKwai9mSmx. fa-, ;VyffligiHmWtfSlSaffffCTlLilW'i'ii H , V I ll Iwiiiih 1 Hi II H i li 'I hi Iff "nil ' I IMilW I i I MMIII1MHH 11
JIJ?:S;?--":i Bh;'sMSM;liHaK
Mayor Smith is shown with his hand on the book ns Judge John M. Patterson reads the oath. Just behind the Mayor is Governor Brumbaugh. To tho left, partly concealed by the
cluster of lights, is Rudolph Blankcnburg, tho retiring Mayor. The scene took place in tho Common Council chamber.
SIM INAUGURATED, SEES .
HIGHER TAX RATE IF PEOPLE
iET "CAKE -AND PENNY," TOO
Costly Improvements, He Says, Made
Possible Only by Big Loans, Must
Be Paid for and the Situation
Should Be Met Bravely
MAYOR SMITH OUTLINES CITY
DEVELOPMENT IN HIS ADDRESS
Loans and increased expenses may mean increased tax rate; the
people cannot have both tho penny and the cake, and if the "penny"
means a tax raise, action must bo promptly taken.
Demands that site on the Parkway should be promptly-chosen and a
real municipal auditoriunVbuilt thereon, delay having lost to the city
?450,000 in interest, sinking fund and State tax on loan.
Favors Park site for Museum of Art.
Court decision and legislation present conditions which compel imme
diate action in regard to Parkway condemnations in order to complete
this improvement at earliest time possible.
All new large municipal buildings should be located on Parkway.
Northeast Boulevard and South Philadelphia development should be
completed with all reasonable expedition.
Work should be pushed as rapidly as practicable upon the Broad street
subway and the Frankf ord .elevated.
Wharves and river terminal facilities should bo developed to foster
commerce.
Need of modern method of sewage disposal and increase in capacity
of filtration system.
"Above all, there should be a proper and liberal provision for our
helpless poor."
Urges upon Councils to earn the confidence of the public by candor and
open discussion and investigation, in all measures, thereby attacking
former cut-and-dried methods.
TWO DEAD, TOLL
OF W-YLIE STREET
APARTMENT FIRE
i
Second Victim of Blaze a
Woman Whose Husband
Tried to Save Her
SOME DARING RESCUES
Former Occupants of Building
Eager to Search the Ruins
for Their Valuables
One more death was added today to the
-list of fatalities which marked a lire that
last nlKht destroyed tho Ilellevuo Flats,
a flve-story apartment house at 1SH Wy
Ilo street. The second death Is that of
Mrs, Emma Gray, 27 years old, who lived
on the second floor. She succumbed at
3 o'clock this mornlns at St. Joseph's
Hospital. Her husband, William Gray,
29 years old, who was Injured while try
ing: to save her, la ut the same hospital.
He Is burned on tho face and head.
The woman who lost her life while fire,
men were fighting the blaze was Mrs.
Kllzabeth Ostrum, 63 years old, of 1543
North 10th street. She was visiting her
daughter, Mrs. Lewis Davis, on the fourth
floor. Her charred body was found near
the window sill. The Identification of tile
body was made positive today by a lone
tooth In the upper Jaw.
Assistant Fire Marshal Gallagher Is
conducting an Investigation today to de
termine the origin of the fire which oc
curred shortly after 6 o'clock. Accord
ing to Gallagher this Is the tlrst serious
Are In an apartment house In Philadel
phia In years.
After questioning several occupants of
AUSTRIA BI4F0R SINKING'
OF iERSA WITH LOSS OF 250
LIVES; 3 OTHERS TORPEDOED
Death of American Consul on Liner
Makes Situation Acute President
Hurries to Washington Pas
sengers on Glengyle Safe
Three more steamships were today added to the list of submarino
victims. Following tho sinking of the liner Persia, with a loss of life esti
mated at 250, including Robert N. McNeely, an American Consul, it was
officially announced that the big British steamship Glengyle had been
torpedoed in the- Mediterranean.
It was reported that tho Glengyle had a number of Americans aboard,
but a dispatch from her captain at Malta said that all of the 100 passengers
were safe, but that 10 members of the crew were lost. Tho Glengyle was
a 9000-ton ship and is the largest liner sunk by a submarine, with the ex
ception of the Lusitania and Arabic.
The other victims of submarines were the Japanese steamship Reukon
Maru and tho British steamship St. Oswald, a 3810-ton vessel in the service
of the British Government. ,
President Wilson has decided to cut his honeymoon short 'and will hurry
back to Washington as the .sinking of the Persia adds a new angle to the
already strained relations with Austria.
Dispatches from Alexandria place the blame of the attack on the
Persia upon an Austrian submarine.
Continued on Faze Seven, Column I"lv
LONDON. Jan. 3.
Responsibility for the destruction of
300 lives. Including one American, was
placed upon Austria ttouay in tiispaicnes
from Cairo. These brought the first
Mayor Thomas B. Smith took office at
wion today. In the chamber of Common
-. -"ui, in vny nan, aeiiyenns ma
i t sural aaress to tne assemuiea mem
v il ofPect and Common Council, after
j fvtns taken the oath in their presence
vl slmP1 ceremony.
His. demand for prompt action to de
lop pending Improvements, and his Im
plied criticism of councllmanlc methods
Hi X pa8' met wi,h varied response,
w Organization members applauding
git feebly these indications of the new
payor's expressed Intention of con
WJIns the ideals of the Btankenburg
.Mglme, while Independents received with
.Slasv,re what seemed to betoken an en--2f0r
,0 B'Ve the city an honest and
-.."nt admlnlBlrnllnn
AJP'ere was a shiver of apprehension at
many considered the most aenniuj
aS' a higher rate of assessment or a
- u rate was Imminent. The city
. not nave both the penny nd tno
51 the Mayof said; if it was to havo
"Mostly Improvements to be made pos-,
& big loans, It must pay the piper,
J . the "penny" meant a higher tax
Jw new financial situation must be
f(. bravely and tho tax rate raised,
li Tcr Sm'th committed his Adrolnlstra
Dtii ff01"ts for the prompt completion
4. i? Br01"! street subway and the
p fwl elevated, of the Parkway, of a
"WenUon Hall on the Parkway and of
H Southern and Northeast Boulevar4s.
'pred the Park site for the art
wuiil He demanded a modern system
fch.'y88 tf'aposal. Improved streets.
Sn?r "4 tlver terminal development
J"9 M increase in filtration facilities.
.1,1 S! "XMit Important and significant of
Si t ttemeiit was the implied warn
2. , Councils, to tha ear of Organlia
17aa"' Councils, he said, must be
S ""A pen with the people, earn
Z cOnJWn;e q( jhe pubHft by Qpen dls
waslon, a.a(l ola r?raarit8 0 tbia subjec
Mowed BJalclv hn i. n-at -1uvaT wan
JwtTins jiwAdu ,xZ. .t,t....i- ...
GIRL DEAD, MAN DYING
FROM EFFECTS OF GAS
Oyercome in Lodging House in
West Philadelphia Tragedy
Believed Accidental
An unidentified young woman and a
man were found overcome 'by gas In a
rooming-house at 3218 Lancaster avenue,
shortly before X0 o'clock this morning.
The woman died in u patrol wagon on the
way to the Presbyterian Hospital and the
man la dying. The man Is John Hughes.
38 years old. who Is.b'lleved to be em
ployed at the Standard Roller Bearing
Company's plant. The police believe the
traitedy was accidental.
The couple was discovered by Mrs.
Hester McKenile. who conducts the
rooming house. Mrs. McKenzle smelled
gas coming from under the door of their
room on the third, flao?. She attempted to
open the door, but, finding t locked, she
called to John McGrearty. another
roomer, who broke Into the room.
The girl, who was very pretty and 15
years younger than Hughes, was lying
on the bed clad only in her night dress.
Hughes was lying half In bed and half
on the floor. The gas was flowing from
an open jet and all the windows were
closed and locked,
McGrearty rushed to the street ana
stopped the patrol wagon from the 39th
street and Lancaster- avenue station,
which happened to be passing. Both were
Continued on la TChttt, Column Two
Names Wilmington Park Heads
WILMINGTON, Del., Jan. 3. lUsIdent
Judge Herbert I Rlee today aamrt Wil
liam P. Bancroft and Irenes du Pont to be
members of the Board of Parjc UowbUs-
loei. JJotk we reapolatsp
'DEFECTIVE' BABE'S LIFE
HANGS IN THIS BALANCE
Parents to Decide Whether Op
eration Shall Be Performed.
May Not Save It
Physicians at Jefferson Hospital are
awaiting the word from Angelo Strolll
before they operate upon his Infant
daughter, which has been pronounced "a
defectlve"chlld. In the meantime An
gelo and his wife, Caroline, both natives
of Holy," are trying at their little home
at 813 Fltzwater street, to make up their
minds as to' the better course of action.
They know that their baby will die In
a few days. If It is not operated upon.
The city's first "defective child" was
brought to Jefferson Hospital on Satur
day, It was then less than 13 hours old.
The family physician, noting the child's
condition, referred the case to the Penn
sylvania Hospital. The children's ward
of this Institution Is under quarantine
because of an epidemic of typhoid and
the case was vent to the Jefferson.
Dr. Samuel Blaugrund, an Interne tn
charge of the receiving ward, with Pr.
Robert Pratt, chief, resident, diagnosed
the case as one of meningocele, a' malfor
mation of the spinal cord.
Anselo'Stroll carried the baby to the
hospital, accompanied by friends. He
pleaded with Doctor Blaugrund not to
operate upon the baby until he consulted
with his wife. He said he feared the
news would kUl her. He auHcred a men
tal collapse after fee was Informed that
an operation wm the only heP9 for his
child.
"I gm9 tJure ba. w Beak, k crtal
;sin and again.
UNALTR0MASSACR0
NEL MEDITERRANEO
Dopo il Persia, con 250 Vittime,
Anche il Glengyle E'
Mandato a Picco
I sottomarlnl teutonlcl pperantl net
Medlterraneo, e devono essere parecchi a
gtudlcare'dala loro attvlta', contlnuanoad
affondare plroscafi appartenentl alle na
zlonl alleate. Gloved!' scorso essl affonda
rono 11 plroscafo Inglese Persia, uccldendo
250 persone che si trovavano a bordo, ed
oggl glunge notljla ct)B un alro plro
scafo inglesei il Glengyle, e' stato pure
affondato nej .Medlterraneo. Npndlmeno
11 centlnalo dl passegterl che pi tro
Vavano a bordo dl questo plroscafo sona
Btatl salvatl o Bono etatl portatl a Malta,
o soltanto dlecl uomlnl deU'cqulpagglo
annegarc o.
II generale Cadorna, annuncla che aul
fronte ltullapo si sono avutl deb,oll at
tacchl degll austrlact che sono statl
facllmente resplntl.
Vn telegramma da Atene al Glornale
d'ltalla dice che le autorita militarl
alleate a Salonlecq hanno rlflutato dl
mettere In llberta' 1 consoll teutonlcl.
bulgaro e turco che esse aVevano ar
restato in quella cltta' perche" avevana
Bcopertp cheMBEeltavano to splonagglo
a danna degll wtati.
(Leggere in 132 pagtna- le ultlme o pit)
dettagllate notizie sulla guerra, in
ltallano, ;'
War Shoe Factory Burned
QUEBEC. Jan. 3,-Tb. factory of the
oclt Sh Mangfacturlng Company,
which has ben tumlng- out shoes for the
- U3B, iwy, sugered a. loss of JS0.00Q
tBHr1 tod;-, jro hujire4Eem
n? 1 STSfeA IhMunt n. nt .t1 1
Jt - kwWM wh.fe v &
definite Information that the submarine
which sank the Persia in the Mediter
ranean last Thursday was an Austrian
Vessel. ,
Ofllclal announcement was made by the
Peninsular and Oriental Steam Nalga
tlon Company today that the Persia car
ried guns.
The dispatches also reiterated the
charge that the Persia was torpedoed
without warning. Only marvelous dis
cipline, they stated, prevented the death
of every man, woman and child on board.
Six boats were launched and the occu
pants of four of them, stated to number
from 153 to 13S, reached port safely. Two
of the boats have not been found and
there Is little hope that the other sur
vivors will be picked up.
Robert N, McNeely, the American who
was proceeding to his post as United
States Consul at Aden, was given up for
lost today when a dispatch from Alex
andria said that he was stilt on board the
Persia after the sixth boat was launched,
A place had been found for him In the
ntth'boat, the dispatch added, but he had
refused to take It, a woman with two
children replacing him Jn the 'boat.
Baron 'Montagu, of Beaulleu, who held
the rank of colonel In the British army,
was placed among the-dead'in a list com
piled here today from-the fragmentary
dispatches thus far received. Both Baron
Montagu and Mr. McNeely were seen by
the survivors struggling. In the ater
after the Persia took Us final plunge.
Colonel Clive C, Blgham, son-in-law of
Lord Mersey, who presided over the court
which investigated the finking of the
Continued en Fate Six, Column Two
THAW LOSES ESTATE APPEAL
Supreme Court Refuses to Order Re
lease of Father's Fortune
The Supreme Court today, In an ppjnlon
by Justice Stewart, dismissed the excep
tions of Harry K. Thaw to the adjudica
tion of the estate of William Thaw, de
ceased. Thaw sought to have a trustee pay pver
to blm the entire Income coming to him
from his father's million-dollar estate,
contending; that, notwithstanding be had
been confloea Jn an asylum at ih time
of tiling the iietlUon, he was sane and,
capable of nanssmcil affairs.
QUICK NEWS
GERMAN SUBMARINES SUNK OFF BULGAR.PORT
AMSTEBDAM, Jail. 3. Two German submarines nro reported
to havo been sunk in the Black Sea, off the Bulgarian port-of Varna.
No official confirmation lids been received.
350 ENEMY CIVILIANS ARRESTED AT SALONICA'bV'LLIES
ATHENS, Jan. 3. Uuder Instructions from General Sarrail,
Auglo-Ffciich troops at Safonica have arretted 300 Germans, Aus
triaus, Turkish nnd Bulgarian civilians, despite the protest of the
Greek Government ngainst the seizure of Consuls of the Central
Empires.
JAPAN NOT TO SEND FLEET TO MEDITERRANEAN
WASHINGTON, Jan. 3. The Japanese Embassy does not expect Japa
nese warships to be sent Into tho Mediterranean to aid tho Allies in retalia
tion for tho sinking of Japnncso steamers by submarines. "Wo havo hoard
no rumor of such n move. It Is distinctly improbable," on Embassy ofllclal
declared today, discussing tho report.
FRANCE TO RELEASE GERMANS TAKEN FROM U. S. SHIPS
WASHINGTON, Jan. 3. Tho French Embassy notified tho Stato Depart
ment today that the French Government had given orders for the immediate
release of the Germans tnken from tho vessels of tho Now York and Porto
Hlco Stcnmshlji Line by tho French cruiser De3cartcB.
ROOSEVELT'S NAME TO GO ON MICHIGAN BALLOT
LANSING, Mich.. Jan. 3. Colonel Itooscvelt was placed in tho race ns
a candidate for the Republican presidential nomination today, when petitions
henrlng enough signatures to instiro that his name will go on tho Michigan
prlmnry bnllot were filed with the Secretary of State. The petitions wero
circulated In Gcneseo County by former Progressives.
GENERAL HUERTA STILL ALIVE
EL PASO, Tex., Jnn. 3. General Vlctorlano Huerta was still nllvo early
today, although reported to bo In a dangerous condition following Saturday's
operation for gallstones and the unsuspected discovery of complications of
tho liver and bladder.
WASHINGTON, Jnn. 3. Subpoenas for about 100 witnesses are being pre
pared ut Sun Antonio, Tex.. In prepaiatlon for tho Grand Jury this week to.
Investigate the activities of General Huortu. Besides points In Texas, includ
ing El Paso und Sun Antonio, New York and Philadelphia will bo drawn on
for witnesses. These will Include Americans who had had financial and
other dealings with Huerta, as well ns his Mexican agents and former officers.
FIRE SWEEPS VIRGINIA TOWN
GOUDONSVILLE, Vn., Jan. 3. Flro swept through, thobuslncss section-'
of Gordonsvllle today, destroying "scvernl bulldinBs"ond causing damage esti
mated at $150,000. Calls for help wero sent to surrounding towns, and the
ilnmeH wero finally controlled. For soveral hours tho entire town was threat
ened wl''i destruction.
Mrs. W. T. Helton, wife of a Chesapeake and Ohio dispatcher, was made
critically ill from excitement following tho loss of all her household effects.
"BILLY" SUNDAY TRAIL HITTER SLAYS HIS MOTHER
SYRACUSE, N. Y Jan. 3. Ed G. II. Buchenau, prominent Syracusan,
killed his mother with a hammer' this morning whllo suffering from religious;
mania. He was a "Billy" Sunday trail-hitter.
TRENTON, N. J., Jan. 3. "Billy" Sunday refused to comment upon th
Syracuse tragedy enacted by a crazed "trall-hltter" in that city today.
VON PAPEN ARRIVES AT FALMOUTH
FALMOUTH, England, Jan, 3. Captain Franz von Papen, recalled mili
tary attache of the German embassy at Washington, D. C, arrived hero today
on board the Holland-America liner Noordnm from Now York. Captain von
Papen kept to his stateroom for the most part and will continue to Rotterdam
on the Noordam,
FRENCH AIR BOMBS RAZE TURK MUNITIONS DEPOT
LONDON, Jan. 3. Steady fighting continues along the Dardanelles front
still held by tho Allies. Tho Turks claim a general success. An Exchange dis
patch from Athens reports, however, tho bombardment of Taskloy, a suburb ot
Constantinople, with great damage, by a French aeroplane. The suburb was set
nflre and a munitions depot blown up, the dispatch, says. An earlier ofllclal dis
patch from Constantinople reports tho repulse of an allied aeroplane by Turkish
seaplanes.
KAISER GRATIFIED AT POPE'S GREETING
BERLIN", Jan. 3. Replying to a New Year's greeting from Cardinal von
Hartmann, Archbishop of Cologne, Emperor William thanked tho prelate for his
message, adding: "I was especially gratified by the greetings sent by you In
the name of the Holy Father." The Cardinal recently returned from the con
sistory at Rome.
WILHELM HAS UNSER FRITZ MALADY, SWISS SAY
GENEVA, Jan. 3. Travelers arriving from Germany today reiterated reports
that Emperor William of Germany was seriously Jll. They said it was common
report In Berlin that the specialists caring for the Kaiser had disagreed ove
the nature of his malady, but had Anally agreed that a severe operation wat
necessary. Ills ailment, they asserted, is of a cancerous nature and affects tha
throat and mouth, making it Impossible for tho Kaiser to take solid food. On
report in Berlin, according to the travelers, is that a cancerous growth has
attacked the Kaiser's lips, making necessary an operation that' will scar him
for life.
" " ' " ' ' ' v
BRITAIN TO END ALL TRADING WITH ENEMY
LONDON, Jan. 3. The Foreign Ofllce announces tho opening, under Its con
trol, of a new bureau to be known as th'e Foreign Trade Department. This de
partment will put into effect the new powers recently conferred by Parliament
with the object of preventing enemy p'ersons or Arms established in neutral
countries from trading in Great Britain. The head of the bureau is Laming
Worthington Evans. M. V. for Colchester, vice chairman of the National Unionist
Association.
THE WEATHER
This is a crucial day.
It Is easy to keep, a resolution the firpt
day you make it Nobody need break
one on Sunday. This Is the first Monday
after that New Year's Eve and there are
a' whole lot of boys who will be out of
the trenches by tonight, ba,ck among the
slackers for another year And there
are many, Inany scraps of paper lying
In waste baskets, thrown there, without
a culver' by fellow citizens who were,
ready to flBht Germany over the Belgian
Incident a "ar or 40 ago. Which has
nothing to do with, today's weather, put
we made one resolution that has not
been scrapped yet; (t's not to talk about
the weather until we can print some
thing about it that won't coat us our job.
Don't think If you receive a letter -a.
year old today that the. trouble Is with
the postofflce.
FORECAST
Caw PhMattelnhisi and njittiit
Fair tviitjht aid Tuesday; nomewhat
cote? ' Uminkt; mai&rate, westerly,
Two Men Escape From'Jersey Prison
TRENTQN Jan. sT Joseph Thomas,
serving 16 years, and Fred Wilson, serv
Ing a sentence of from S to SO years, es
caped from the New Jeruey State prisoir'
early this morning by scaling the htW
wall with a rppe ladder- The men we,c
over the wall a( a point that was witlin
50 yards of the wa,tch tower, in .hlcl fw
a guard with a repeating: rifle.
LOST AND FOUND
BINO-!-Loat. lady's d'atooa4 ulng-. . WUlALtM
kisdl-r return umel Lat Saturday sMsttg,
between tha hours o 8 and i o'cjoes.'ta M
r.shU)rlioo.l a! lUrktt H., JSlU lu tltb.
from Areh t. 17th to 13th. heac tat Mar
ket. lieajrJ 11.JA. D.. a-lSSJfcJWfc-rtT
BHACKLET-Uwt FrUavTaK. 31. jmCcwt?
bracelet, eolus from Sttt and CBtiJBtj
11th mid . MlrWt. nard it rBTOJr"
J E. Cald a til feO S03 Chetnut
ptTtSE-tost, Jsuuaw J.Hrrt ,t -bum 3 a.
SvntH-maQ's puvat, feotatoiuuc luci...... ..
anil II Tt ticket. rftdt4 W tas a&J ,j ..i
are ntiurnn.1 no -uuftloniri j U, ii t'un-.
wiii4 &nsu? ws9 iwxmmtr& 3- is !-
ti Thatr mnumwl 42jk " " "SHI"
jj jt si
j. Other CSzzsQtd JJiti Jassw -
I
