4 m v
.1 in .
THE WEATHER F0I
THE CZAR'S FAMILY AT PLAY.
Fair to-day and to-
Royal children of Russia much like chil
dren the world over, as is shown
In a page of remarkable
photographs.
IN THE SUN NEXT SUNDAY.
northwest
Highest temperature jeitei
Detailed weather, mail nnd mti
PRICE TWO CENTS.
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 125.
NEW YORK, MONDAY, JANUARY 3, 1916. Oopjrlrjlif, IMS, by the Sun rHnflnr; and PubUnMna tMorlnllon.
Stitt
wheat prices near a record Tl I CTIflU T X M n D MHft ! f.R H A T ft A TTI 17 fiHR
UUIJllUU Ln 111 nil viuvj uiuuni uniiuu ivh
OF HEART DISEASE CZERNOWITZ RAGES
FORD RETURNS
WITH IDEAS ON
WAR Pill A NfiRR iS? XV?4Vr?S: S"P'ti' Court Jurist, Never
II All )IL fill U U If off on May ami 1, cents on July. Net llcCOVCl'Ctl FfOlll Stroke of
Only Oner In an Year lime ,lnu
nrj lnntatlnn Hern So lllh.
CmcAiio, .Ian. 2. Present whe.1t
prlcci arc the highest for January In ,
I llilrt -nvo years, with the exception of a
tosses last week were 1c. on December, j
2 Sc. on May and lc. on July.
PnrnlysiN LiiNt Sununer.
S.'ivs Ho Wint Vbroiul' "'"MK" Mll' wh,al herc nnrl 1,1 ,,,e EllM
Ocl,l. 111, I ' -VOllJcUl Um wcok The local holding of 6.000.000
Illuming Capitalists, but
Xow Blames People.
bushels for Interests close to the lf r , LA X K MAY
i man .lovernmcni wag ici no. u mis.
bought Inst summer for July delivery,
i liu: uh tha t-. 1 1 grain was riot wanted
a trmisfcr was made to September.
I l.nlrr It was turncil over l.ito December
I alal about a mouth ago Into May.
Kni wledgo of Its being unloaded was
i evidently one of the reasons for a num-
bor of large local professional and ?e
srCCEKD HIM
lilt VAX Rl'SHKS TO
WIiM PfVM V ntrllK'l board exporters taking profits on the
1 IjIjV.UJIIj 1.11.11 lOX j ,uiBe io J1.29 for May Inst Monday.
Chief Justice Wiuslow of Wis
cousin mill F. V. I.cliiiiniin
of St. Louis Mentioned.
Detroiter May Visit Auto
Show, Thou Leave fur
IToiii( This Afternoon.
AUTHOR-FORGER pays dupes.
W.vsiiinotov, Jan. 2. Joseph Ilucker
Lamar, Associate Justice of the t'nlti'd
States Supreme Court, died at his rest
Ttussitius Storm lleiglits. Cap
turing WW Prisoners
With 15 Officers.
3,000.000 MEN EXOAOED
New Muscovitj; Offensive
C.nlicin Is in Full
. Swiii":.
in
PERSIA HAD 4 J INCH GUNS MOUNTED;
NO WARNING GIVEN; 247 DROWNED;
CONSUL M'NEEL Y PROBABLY LOST;
59 PASSENGERS, 94 OF CREW SA VED
U. S. Awaits lu format ion
as to Whether Torpedo or
3Iine Sank Liner.
Sptclal (alitt Pupttch to Tilt. 81
London. Jan. 2. The pre.it battle In
RalU-lu. which has been foreshadowed
Prink . June. Turn. Ilvrr flLOUO , deuce In Washington to-night after scv- for some days by me c" ccm i o, ,
mi fitlfti'L nt .a,-.lttlM ... U'1,1.,. itllmr ' .? . ' . . .. . j I.. ........
DKTnoiT, Jan.
Jones, author-forger, completed his firs:
' ... .... i.-,.vv liu. .1.111 and Teuton forces, has
Knrnrd .. Ye.r'. Parole. I m""' " iuness.wn.cn ...fan m. w ,,, ,.r,i-st. and according to u
Frank Goew-ev aUaC,( 01 '",IH", M " "e U'Piiur , u, B,nteiiient Issued In IVtrnpr.ul u.
.i'iiiik?. "iicii: nr- pi" iiiiuih nt.'ni liif iiu,a nil" lit.."
jeir on parole by disbursing mdre than
After the ntt.iik the Justice was I
ltenty Kord, home aKiln nfler falllnB
to "Ret the Iu5n out of the trenches by
Chrlstiiuo." but ncM'ttlicle-vs cmph:itlf In . frnerlcs. .linountlng to many thousands
his declaration that he "did not regret of dollars.
what Hie had done and was sure It had . In addition to the money received
iroill .nis wrilinKS jout'9 Ji.ui paiuci
upper hand. Cstenioultz. capital or ine
ItukoHlna, Has ixxomc wie i.-n...- ...-
ja.iiO'i to IiIh creditors, former stock- ... , , . . 1 fluhtliiK. The llnsslans report mui 1. r
Klectrlc Kuse '"""s"1 "iiiiwi" " "" "i-- storiuni helgnts nerore tne nu
'.int. Pa. 1 . .a 1.. .AIH4 Hnrl ..... A rt l l.ll.TlllimC. TlIIPCIl U IKtl '
The city's tmpul.itlon Is held rcud for
holders of the American
Company of Muskegon, which went to.pearcd to Improve, but he remained un
the wall as the renult ot his confessed able to resume bin place on the bench,
About a week ago ha nan attacked
enough to provide for himself, wife
and ton.
All the funds furnished by Jones have
gone to small stockholders, former em
ployees, widows and orphans who arc
listed among the creditors. Claims
still held ng.ilnst Joneo amount to nearly
?l,nitn,nno.
had a good effect," arrled cslcrda
on the Norweglan-Aincrlrm liner Her
Censfjord, William Jennings Tlryai, ex-Secretary
of State and fellow worker acaliiH! mill
tanry Htid preparedness of all sorts, was
lo of the siriic opinion as to the peace
expedition which sailed o'ft on the Orcnr
11, for he made a llyins trip to tne 1 landing.
W.ildorf-Astotla late last til Jilt to visit
tne automobile maker and express his
congratulation.
Mr. Kord'H hoinecoinlng was In strong 1
contrast to his depsrture. Instead of the . r)irrlTrir P I iriMP nilPOfTO
blaae of bunting and the clamor of np- K KNK II Nfl V Nil III N
with a sex ere cold, which dhl not yield
to treatment and symptoms of pneumonia
appeared. He has suffered from cx
tieme heart weakness almost from the
time of tho paralytic attack at WHille
Sulphur. It In undeistood that the Im
mediate cause of his death was" heart
disease.
Appointed li Tnft.
Jones Is confident that he will be -ible 1 Justice I.amar was appointed to the)
1 1 rcpitj every cciu 01 uie ucms oui- nemo o i rwrnnii iiwm hit- n,v
dt.oittitlnn.
Czemowltr. was taken by the ltiies'an
In the llrst O.illclan drlxe and was re
taken by the Autrlnns exactly a ysar
later. Since then It has been firmly held
b the Teutons.
The Austin-Herman forces In tiailcia
are cHtlmatcd at 1.500,un0 men, and the
Czar Is believed to have an nrmy of al
most equal mimerlral strength. Includ
Ing the strong forces recently withdrawn
from lless.ir.ibla.
MM,. I. illl. nrnunil I'ZerilOrt It i IMtMl
three das aco. and a decisive result Is
.1.. ..oi.,i iir The outcome of
WAKK OK IMfO.TKCTllvE
SKKX J5Y AX OFFICER
Washington Hears That
Vessel Was Armed With
1.7 Inch Guns.
OFFICER SAW TORPEDO'S WAKE,
U. S. CONSUL GARRELS REPORTS
WASHINGTON, .Tun. 2. The slnkliiic of the ferula wns reported
to the 8tnte Iteimrliiienl tn-iltiy In 11 tnlile ili'xpiitch from Unltexl States
Coii.Htil tiurrels nt Alcxiimlrlu. A puriiplirn-e of the despatch Riven out
ly the State Departtiiutit reads: A
"l.ltier l'ersla, nirr.vlnc 4.7 Inch kiiiis, .sunk about 300 miles north
west of Alexandria at 1:05 o'clock 011 the afternoon of December 30; prob
ably tonedoed. Sunk In live minutes. tNo submarine whs won, hut Sec
ond Officer llromley saw a torKslo truck, tine hundred and rlfty-threo
out of 400 passengers and crew lainlnl at Alexandria on January 1. Of
the two Americans 011 lioiird t'barles II, 4 ; in nt of Hoston, manager of oil
company, .saved. MeNecly, Consul at Aden, probably lost. Whn last
seen striigllin.' In water."
I
LITTLE GIRL'S ANGEL
plause that sent the ponce ship Oscar II
away on her mission, the returning;
,..n,l, ..nu unlctt... rr.ii.t thn uhtti I
in a private cutter, landed at an out of, MiSS ElilllX'tll SteilllUllll Kisks l '!- ,b 1?
the way spot somewhere between thej 1 ifi nt lliiinn Mnvin
about a month past 33 years of age at
1 the time of tils appointment, rresiuent
Taft became acquainted with him at
Augusta, (la., where Mr. Lamar had
practised law for several years before
his appointment to the Supreme Court
1 bem h.
, I'resKlent Taft had spent much time
at Augusta, which was one of the winter
reoits he frequented. Justice ixunar
had served a term on the Supreme bench
C. II. OH A XT. AMEHICAX,
AMONG THOSE SAVED
It to Its port or destination or the same
quantity substantially which It has been
accustomed to take lor a voyage befon
war was (lectured.
"S. That the caigo of the vessel con
sists of artlrles of commerce unsulted
for the usiv of a ship of war In opera
tions against an enemy.
9. That the vessel carries passen
gers who are us a whole unfitted to
01 i.eoigia. lie was a Leiuui. .11 ':""',"" .., influence
IMC I1KIUII1K 1 - .
Ituniania Into definitely goius "o our ,
Theory Turkish Submarine
Made the Attack Is
Advanced.
Battery and Forty-second street, and
hurried in 11 laxleali lu lli Wai-dorf-Astorla.
where he will remain until!
he leaves for Detroit late this after-,
noon.
SlivMny Die.
j The supreme i-ouri, wnicn was 10 n.nc
iesumen ousuiess ii,ioiu
the holiday recess, will undoubtedly ad
Jiurr. upon assembll'.-tr nnd will pmbsblv
! not resume lu- sittings until after the
'funeral, which will take place at
' AugiiKta. (ia.
I Miss niznbeth Stelnman, angel -.f , For several weeks speculation has
At llrst he refused to make any state-: mercy to the small boys and girls in the : 'r ' ,VJ 1 ....ur
nieiil, mIiik he would i-cc newspaper i.elghlmrhood of Sixteenth stiect and 1 based on the belief that the character
nieii to-diy and not before but later1 Ninth axenuc, was so Uidly burned In ! of his Illness was such that he would
when he 'was seen a, .he Waldorf he -ln a party of them from death in ' WAr
con-ented to an Interview. . flames last night that she may die. 1 1(M(, Hou,. inoUinR to legislation for tho
I went oer there to show the peo- Mis Stelnman. who Is 20 years old, Is 1 rHttrelt.it ,f Justice Lamar by spe, lal
pie that I was willing lo give more than! the sole support of her wloowcd molh.jr. 1 act of Congress on full pay. Such legls
mv inonev for I lie cauie of neace." hei.m, .lmn .he llivs on the fourth floor l-Un was passe,! for the beneni or
aald. "I feel that 1 am only the cus-j of s,x , teement house at 400
Indian of my money. It was given to me . ., , ..,...,.
by lhth very people who ale being 1 " Sixteenth street. Hut ttie meagre
slaiighteieil In the tienches. b can't use salary Mie earned as a bookkeeper not
nuy more of It than I am using now,
mid I want to devote the rest to benefit
ing Hie people who helped me lo earn It.
Minnies I'eople .Nim.
"I came back l.eiause bad
slight
touch of the grip and that hastened me
only sutllced for her own and her
mother's support 'out was stretched ojt
t cover the cost of host of small
Mildnesses she was always doing for the
n Ighbors.
Justice Moody when he became Inca
pacitated. The legislation ror tne re
tlrement of Justice Lamar was sus
pended after more faorable reports con
ccrnlng his condition wste received.
The
l.ii ne 11 nil tinrrUnn.
names 01 two meinoerr 01 wi-
side or the other.
The llusslan otrtclal statement say?:
On the Stru front the Austrlans
before our attacks weie forced to le
tire on new jiosltlon. Near Czerno
wlta. In a particularly heavy engage
ment. wc captured scxetal heights and
took fifteen officers and sST. men pris
oners. We captutcd three machine
kuiim and one bomb mortar.
In the lllga dl-trlct a llxely can
iionude. In which a Herman armored
motor car took part, occurred on the
Ttaeloli load.
South f Jacobstadt and around the
l'oilunay farm there was artillery and
rifle Are.
North of Czartorysk the Austrlans
were twice repulsed In attacks on our
foillflcatloiis and fell Inick with heavy
losses to their original positions.
lrnnn 'oiiBrni llrporf.
An ustrlan official statement Issueil
esterda confirms that fighting In east
ern (lallcla continues with undiminished
violence and speaks of a short Itussian
northeast of Buczacz. llusslan
artlllcrv firing laitel until night, the
relsirt sas. whun the llusslans attacked
the Austrian wire entanglements fKe
times, but were repulsed.
The Hua!ans. according to the ulllclal
report Issued yesterday at rcirngr.iu,
crossed the Styr between the Kuvel and
That the commander actually did
give warning and the Persia tried to
escape.
Officials of the State Department tit-
lleve there 'will be difficulty In proving
whether it was a mine or torpedo mat
struck the liner. If, In the absence of any
proof that a submarine was In tkss vlcin
It y. the Teutonic Towers Insist that It
was a mine. In thin connection they
enter the military or naval service of tho (called attention to the ess of the
t.l - .( .1.- 1 Al.. nH 1 ... . ..
lieiimereill wnunr lias, n rr.r,-i iiico i
ot any of Its allies, and partlrularlv
If the passenger list includes women ana
children.
10. Thut the speed of the sh?p Is
ilow."
tJeriunn) Opposed Itullnu.
n-1,1, ,.,f.., This memorandum was supplied In
WtsillNdTON. Jan. :.--Itlnnfotmu- . ,rmai.V nrnie.t niralnst
tlon at band to show that 247 cr.sons, the refusal of the Cnlted State to In-
lucludlng Cnlted States Consul lloliert tern as ships of war British liners enter-
N. MeNecly. probably lost their lives moun,,,,i, (jermany dissented from the
when the British liner Persia was view that any merchant ships of n bel-
sunk In the eastern Mediterranean, the ' Jcf "firitW, merchant
liauils of the State Department nro vessels with artillery," read a memo-
r.iudum from tho (ierman Foreign Otllce
tcmpor.irilj tied. . . to Cnlted States Ambassador tlerard
Unless more detailed and positive (lftle, October 1.1, 1SI4. "Is for the pur-
Inl'oriiiKiioti is ol.Uliiitl rcgiirdln the pore of malting armed reilstasic- against
. .1 ,...i, nfn. ieiman cruisers. Resistance of th'. sort
circutnslunc.es ot the attucK. lilhn orn u tOM,rar. t0 international law because
clals of the State Department ad- n a military sense a merchant vessel In
mlttcd to-nlgbt. the American Oov- "t pennlttwl 10 defend Itself against a
milieu in mm". "' war ve,,,,.!, HI, act of reslntance giving
ernmcnt may never be In posltkm to tt), warship . . . with crew and
demand mi accounting. passengers" (the dots lepresent an ornls-
ii.i h.itIU slon In the original communication as
Thus far tbcao two esentlal details trnalniUe,i , Washington, but Ihe
lire lacking. wonln left out are supposed to have been
..... ... .. n.,.l. mi. "hc rKht to sink t.al-1 merchant ves-
1, Whether the rersin vm at- !..)
Ucked by a submarine or struck Although the United State dissented
mine. from the German view. Ambassador
"i if lurked hv a submarine, Gerard was Instructed to Inforti the
. .u. m m flcrmaa. I flsrman Fnrelcn Otrlca that. recoKiilzlliK
V r..iT.n ,.r Turkish tl" "desirability of avoiding a ground of
, complaint, the United States lutd ills-
I'titll dellnll inrorinauon in 00
lih) Survivors at Alexan
dria; Declare the Ship
Was Torpedoed.
SAXK IX 5 MI NTT ICS
AFTER EXJM.OSIOX
Captain Drowned: Consul
3IcXeely Seen Striifi
fflinjr in the Sea.
70 WOMEX AX1) 30
CHILDKEX MISSIXG
steamer Hesierlan sunk off hastnet.
Vngland, on September 4, shortly after
the Arabic wus sent to the bottom. On
that occasion the Incident occurred at
S :30 o'clock at night and no submarine
was seen,
Although the British Admlialty sub
mltteil to the American Government
pieces of the metal alleged to have been
picked un from the deck of the ship b
rore it went down and which American
naval experts pronounced 10 be parts of
a torpedo, the American Government was
unable to prove that a German sub
marine was resisinslble, and for that
reason never pressed Berlin for satis
f.u.lon. Mn llnvr Been Turkish submarine
in the other hand, resiioiislble officials
of the Slate Pepartmeut declared to
night if subsequent evidence proven that
a submarine did attack the Persia but
that the nationality of the submarine
was not (ierman or Austrian, but Turk
ish, the C11lt.1l States will have to fol
low the same procedure used In the case
of the Aticona to demand of Turkey
under pain of a severance of diplomatic
relations a promise to disavow the act,
punishment of the submarine com
mander and reparation for the lives of
any Americans lost.
That a Turkish submarine might In
fact have made the attack Is considered
probable. With the withdrawal of the
entente Powers from the Dardanelles It
is assumed that the Turkish submarines
which have been'nperatlng In tha' Black
Sea or new ones built In Germany and
transhipped to Constantinople and
Chief Officer. Second Of
ficer and Seven Engineers
Are Rescued.
President's Cabinet have figured lu the ,.,.,,.1,, Autro-Germnn attempts o
nnnrnvnd the art and had made such
tallied on these two iiolllts. Depart- . representation to (.real Britain that no 1 munlle 1 bv Turkish crews under the
tneiit ofllclala declare, the Anierl-Inrmed merchant veesel. since September TurkH, ,1,, might have been sent down
111.11, ....v. Irt u 1(1, fl.n r.rl nf two. nil . . . ... .... .. ..... . .
,'ernlllcnt must lime im woic - .v., ,n j,,m lnP Austrian suornaruiee operat
ing in tut- vicinity 01 tne tuez l anai
MANY MORE SAILORS
THAN PASSENGERS SAVED
Total passengers..
Faisengers suted
Passengers lost
Total women aliiiurd . . . ,
Women sated
Worsen losl., .
Children aboard
'missing) .. ..
Total rrew
Crew aed
Crew lost
Total lost
(all reported
,''41
. .
I S3
r
17
"0
an
1 .-.
. M
n.-i
JIT
The neighbors' children came In for ! speculative gossip coiuernlng the sue- tnmns to the right bank
more than their share of those little cession. Secretary of the Interior I , .. . niii..r local siiccciacs are as-
s 1. 11. bin when 1 left New York I told 1 deeds .inn mere were lew wcckr mat l.-rnriKlln i. i.ane nas oeen uiu) ,,.,. ,1 1,,. the reoort.
Mrs Ford thai 1 would letum In about . Ms Stelnman failed to give one or two named as most likely for Ihe plaie. It Kovel-Sarnv sector of the War
five wiekH. I had Intended to take the j small presents to them. A month ir was said that the I'lesldent had made 1 MHw-KlorY railway runs due north of the,
sliainrr that sailed to-day. mow 110 1 more ao sue mane a inosi I'xuinw up ms mmii 10 appoint
feel now ',' Fine." i promise to a group of little folks. Supreme bench If It were possible for
When .il:, -.1 uhnt Impressions he 1 "Vou wont huve to pas money any him to do so before Hie close ot nis
the Sarny railroad and me village ... c.. v.ov 1. '" - ,,.,, entered an American port
and awnii me itoii " "".'
, t'i,U,..l States Consul Garrels at
Vtexalidria, who has been dlrcctetl to
get ius many sworn statements as pos
slble from survivors.
7,ledenrl Coanaels Culmnra.
Naval oltlc.lals here are convinced, In
fiptcial t'fihlr ttfipittf In Till. M
AI.EXANPKIA, Jan. 2.-The P. and ' .
liner Persia, which was sunk In tho
Mediterranean off Alexandria iMst
Thursday, wan tiiriu-tlnt.il luv'miil
warning. Till? is me iiriiii.nimis
statement of tha l.3 survivnr-, p.is
fccngers and crew. Iiimlcil ln-t
Five minutes after a tiniii.-inloiM
explosion the Mteatnslilp. .ilinust torn
111 two, dl.s.iipe,uod biqie.ith Ihe vvav. .s.
i any event, that because of the hazards The torn...!., h.,l lilt ......ii.... .... n...
Baron von Zwiedenek, Austrian Cliarce. (of passing bad- and forth through long . . '
a ;.r ' ". .ih, 'stretches to Austrian ports on the Adrl- I,ort In- petM.lis aboard were
vvdiivnlnn fortn'ss trlahgle formed by
Diitino. I.utzk and llovno. in inec ,
Makr tif Torpedo Scrn.
... ....1 -nn t,t,i lie the 1 ...,,.,,r, from Garrels to-
..,. ....... ,, ..... ..... ... .-.- rf ...... .IIOVTIO s in, ..Hi ,.., ..i. ...... . j , inn, iv "' , ....... - - ...... ......
brought back from the war Mr. Ford more to see moving picture shows." she p-esldeutUI tenn. ltuslan. Bv crossing the St r In the 1 ,)rlpf , Knipblc. It told , tflP nri,t )lu,
aj-tonished his llslcners by saying sadly: said, "My Vew Ve.ir's present l Vjii ' (me strong point made for the Lane TrKnn north 'of the Volhyniau line the ' , ,.,mvlnce oftlclnl Wash- that a submarine
"I went to Hurope tdariilng the rnpl- will be a moving picture outfit, and after appointment was the fact that he served .1111HlH11H n,lVc pushed the Austro-Cer- u 1 "l""K" iniredy Is surim-ssed It was no Austrl:
tBil-l-, Hie iiankers. the munitions mat.. 1 get It we'll all have private shows In for so many years lu the Interstate j flrtll(.r , ,, mirth and reduced Ington tuat l, , . t usltnla. be determined whe
r. for fills war. 1 have come hack my house." Commerce Commission with such great nwna, e to Itovno, which Is the prln- only by the sinning t " ' . were such as to wa
Maiiilnc the prnplr the very people The children were delighted, and on ability that his appointment to the high- j ( llm or . Teutons. A paraphrase ot tli urspaiv-n 1 j m confldent,
who are being slaughtered In the Friday when she Invited a dozen of her n. court, which Is called on riequcniiy
trenrlirs. They have neglected to se-, favorites to come to her apartment last ' to consider questions relating to Inter
led the proper heads for their Govern- night their Joy was uuboundet, They 1 mute commerce, would be appropriate,
1 cuts, or to help them after they have were all there In good time, and Mls ni that Mr. Lane's experience would be
been relected. When they got n man In stelnman ptepared for the show. She 14 distinct acquisition to the bench,
oltl. e they do not keep In touch with bad bought a projector and a few film, has l-een said that If Mr. Lane
him, they don't write letters to him, they and hail stretched a sheet at one end ot should be appointed to tre Supreme lieiich
don't tell him what they wart. They her pnrlor. Secretary lluustou would probably suc
selct people to govern them and then er unaccustomed lingers had trouble cf.fl him as Secretary of the Interior,
allow the militarists to twist these uh the lights n the projector, and she Another Cabinet name fiequently
same people about for their own ends. i,ad freuuent Interruptions to adjust the ' .......iii.ncd is that of Secretary Garrison.
"I remember that one poor king I nm, During one of these her elbow The Prldent probably would be glad I
don't remember which one It wa wrote shoved a film against the light: there to- appoint Mr. (larilson lo the bench
us ,vhen we landed that he could not was a flush and smoke and flame filled f be could spare him from the W'ir
fee us simply because the newrpapers the room. The boys and girls ere Department at this time. The sugges
bail said that lie was going to. He Is frightened, and they cried out. Miss 1 ton tnat secretary Garrison Is handl
a bad man, It seems to me. to keep a Stelnman. whose arm had been singed ranned by the fact that New Jersey has
country out of war If he can't give a In the flint burst of flame, spoke sooth- nnt. representative on the Supreme
b"ter ' excuse than that. We did not Ingly to them, nnd began to usher her bench is no more a liar to his appoint
want to see any kings, anyway," he small charges Into the hall. The flames pietit apparently than the fact that Call
laughed. soon had possession of the curtains, and ferula, which claims Secretary Lane, has
We didn't get any assurances of were licking at the woodwork and celling ' (l representative In the Supreme Court
svmpathv from any officials, but we gft ' of the room, but she kept up her work. )n justice McKenna.
t' m from other vople who, I think, trlng at the same time to hi lug enough Putting aside the two Cabinet names
were Just as Rood. I never saw a better water ftom the kitchen to control the ,( considering the geography of the
l-odv than the delegation that went from Ih'ines. situation It Is declared that the Presl-
SaciIcii to Norway. I saw some -of the Neighbors smelted smoke ; one of them ,ent would bo Justified In considering
Holland .ii.lrir.itfH us well, and .they I111- turned in an alarm. When Battalion ; the middle West In seleitlng the new
I llici nose ir.n-iifii ui- up., I wneiii nr nicmbcr. I llier .lusiice n lint' .nu uu-.-
found Mlsu Stelnman unconscious on the n,., Mclleynolds are from Louisiana and
v.t ills itlti II.- nts uour, wan inosv ui me ciouuhk on me , Tennessee respectively, .nisioe .oiirniia
' ' ' " I upper pan of her body burned off. But 1 iK from California and Justice Van De-
t this point Mr. Ford pained to1 the children were all safe. ivanter from Wyoming, both representa-
evjil.tlu emphatically that the voyage of It took the fliemen only a few minutes ,VPS f the far West,
the fisciir II was not really his- own to put out the fire. Meantime Dr., The Cast Is represented by Justice
piivale ventuie or Lieu at all, but a Spencer came from the New York Hon-, Holmes of Massachusetts, Justlco
part of the Woman's International pltal. He said that Miss Stelnman was Hughes f ,ew York and Justice Pitney
p. ace iVugicss, which Is to be held at o badly burned on the chest, back. neck. tNw jerHey. Justice Day of Ohio Is
The ll.mie arms and face that It vvas doubtful It ,,p ohly representative of the great sc-
"The Idea Is not mine at all,'' he "he would live, She was taken to the ,0I1 Wl.st of the Alleghanles and east
said. "The fact is that I am meiely hospital. ( Hockles, excluding the South.
using my money In a good cause to1
flhanie the roncress. The neonle whoinWTPT WF.ATS "OPF.AT fiPTPTT " Political Krpresentatlon.
prestred me Just a strouglv."
i.illcd with tne on the (Hear II. are
lolrig to elect delegated who will go
nn to The Hague, and the rest will te
tuir soon to this count rs. I have beeji
nd Isel that a ship lias been clrirter d
to take Hie delegates! to Holland. I
se them word not to take any risks
of an ocean voyage, but I utiderwtaud
t.iit they have lsfn assured that every-tl-
ng will bp made safe for them."
Then he leaned forward and
It Is presumed that the President will
Who I'oiiKhl Willi be disposed to appoint a Democrat he-
'cause Justice i.amar was a iemocr.u
and before his death tne nemocrats nau
llunlnlln 1'lre
tilling: Hull, n Suicide
Cliiiwi.o, Jan, 2,--Chlef Ogalallu Fire, but thr.e repiesentatlves In the highest
the nlmty-year-olil Indian, who fought iouit nnd the Itepubllcans six. Besides
ii-iih sNttlnt; Hull erew tired nf w-altimr there Is an unwritten rule In the Senate
for the limit Spirit to call him and respecting confirmations nf nominations
"lashed his throat to-day with a razor, for the Supreme Court which requires
The .11 til chief lian been 111 eeveral that the minority party shall have at
months at the home of his eranddnuuh- least three representatives on the. bench.
re. lously enough : "Now I want to nsk , t(... jt,s. Harry Little Heir, hete. President Taft appointed .lusiice i.amar,
you newspaper men a question. You since the first week of his sickness a Democrat, oui or regarit ior huh ruie.
know hn, the cuireut o;iinlon Is, Tell n,if Ogalalla Fire awoke each day with The names of two prominent )emn.
tl, e. Is It ccnerully believe I. as I have',,,,, ,,,, la tlle ca) to the happy crats from the middle West, both of
heard tumored. that I am doing all this mt,l(,- Kround would come before night- whom were consldeied by Pres dent Taft
fo, personal glo, Ifictlon'.' fll u as the first time In his life when Justice Lamar vi apiOlnled, will
Why. I don't nod any advertising u,a, -lls forced to lie In bed from undoubtedly figure as. 1 .osslbr fit e T hey
T.Fot.l factory Is LVnoo cars behind .. .ttirril ailmenl. Many times the chief are John I " " hl'f ' '"'
lu unlets now. Why should J. do ,,,s been laid up with bullet and baor.ft ,'1S",,e'"'.' "mr, ,)J ' SJ, u'l,
thing like this for notoriety? Siutata received In vatlous battlrs be. Frederick V . ,m. "?'.?' '"JS;,..
ho I III nk we have nccointi s bed ,.V 1,1. 1,11,. ( slmit uml ih. ltmil Mr. i-ennniim .m o". o...,.i
nrjihlng" Yes, I do, We have started states soldiers.
the peojile to talking. When you do "t'usler's last light" Chief Ogiiinlia
III
peopl
rlithl and
or it i-or inni reason 1 11 101 ,r01Kh bis
uie auvcrsa crmcisiii unit your
papeis have given me. Tin only
thing that liar, been dlsagr'cable In 111.1
Is that It -vntrleil my wife. Sly son Is
nf a different frame of mind. It docn'l
entber him, For myself, I like It," '111,1
I want you to keep it lip. As long ns
you keep criticising the peace mission
people win talk and think about It.
The statement loiiows
On the front from the Gulf of lllga
to the Prlpet region there Is no change
lu the situation.
Ilrnperiltr CluhllllB Con 1 1 nlle.
South of the Prlpet the firing cor
tlnues with undiminished despera
tion, ln the sector of the Styr. be
tween the Kovel and S.irny ltailro.nl
end the vlllnge of Czartors sk. we
crossed to the left bank of the Styr
and captured the village of Khriasl.
Desperate counter attacks by the
enemy, with the object of driving
us Kick to the right bank of the Styr.
were unsuccessful, as also were at
tempts to expel us from the region of
Mllasheff. southeast of Kolkl.
. North of the station of nit ha we
advanced and consolidated the con
quered position.
On the front of the Ulver Strlpa
we occupied two linen of enemv
trenches. In the region of I'scleczko
we drove back the enemy to the right
bank of the Dniester.
Between the Dniester fiont anil Itu
niania we readied the enemy wire
entanglements and broke through
them and consolidated the ground
won.
Caucasus front Our scouts at
tacked a Turkish advanced post on
the spur of Mount Karatasch, south
of Korusemn, on Wednesday last, Our
scouts bayonetted the sentinels and
penetrated the shelters where there
were reenforcements. The scouts
Isimhed the shelters and killed the
survivors when they attempted to es
cape. In the region south of Lake Utu
inlnli the HiiHsInn detachment retired
toward Mendoab under pressure of
11 stronger enemy force.
The following statement was Issued by
the (ierman War Office to-day:
Feeble llusslan attacks at several
places were repulsed, A P.usslan de
tachment gained a temporary success
by entering a German position north
of Lake Drlsvlaty.
said nt the cmh.tssv to-night
"Judgment should be withheld pend
ing the receipt of the real facts surround
ing the sinking of the eteanwhlji Persia.
It may have happened In tunny ways.
"In the first place. It Is not jet proved
sank the. Persia. If
Austrian submarine It must
hether the circumstances
i-arrant the action taken.
at leant I hope, that
stretches to Austrian ports on the Adrl
alio, where the Italian fleet Is stationed, killed or Injured by the explosion,
the submarlti' S of the central Powers ftobcrt Nev McN'rc.v the Vine. 10
must be operating from bases .stab- "'cii. .Mc.Nri , , in- Atnei ,.iu
llslied at Turkish ports In Asia Minor Consul. 1111 his way In A1I1 11. .1pp.11 -or
Syria. 1 ently was drowned. He was un.ihin
German (0111 inn nd Tnrklak Vessel """wing 10 nun a jii.ice in ,1 iiit-
The few Turkish submarines that have
"From the answer made to the last
i-.oimil Garrels Is ns follows
Liner Persia, carrying 4.i l"
guns, sunk about 300 miles north
west of Alexandria at 1:03 o'cock on
the afternoon of December 30; prob-
" - . . . t . 1 lien mln.
aV.y torpedoed, fnnx. 111 not,. on the Aneona alone It Is quite
utes. No submarine was i"'". evident that the Austro-llungatiaji Gov-
Second Officer Bromley saw a tor- ernnvent will not countenance any act
pedo track. One hundred and fifty- which Is wrong."
i,, .,. nf 400 passengers and crew While at the German and Austrian
inn 1 ;""'.', January L embassies here It Is said that no official
landed at Alexandr a on ja ,-eceived of the sinking
Of the two Americans on board mm
Chnrles H. Grant of lloston, managi r lnforrnatlon ,v)n rreve the cen-
of oil company, saveu. w,, tral powers of any responsibility
flne Theitrr dvnuerd.
In these quaiters It is predicted that
. hlVmK m d pc lled any belief that reports will show:
hi this n on ui. j T,jat Hajl ft mln(j amJ M()t ft (or
prdo which sank the Persia :
That If It was a torpedo from a Ten-
boat. Several of the -in mm s.iy
featured In the Black Sea operations are they saw hlin struggling In the water
understood to have been commanded by after the ship had gone down.
the final explanation will be quite satis. German officers. For that reason. If It 0niy four i,,ltM aWll.. The iini
factory. If the commander of the sub-1 Is found that a Tutklsh craft attacked short that it is inni,.,. r,,i-
marine dlso.-eyed his ruMoM , !e?l ,,,e IVrsIn I. jr:,.!1' astonishment that any at '.,11 weie low-
sure niy i .overnineiu w in not nrnuie 10 yi ,.mui,- .- nr.., ti,,.
ndiost the mutior .atlsfaetorllv. , mind Germany that Its previous cor- ". 1 he ui v iv lug passenget .s sny
Consul at Aden, probably lost. Was
last seen struggling in water.
The location of the Tersln as given
the catitaln of the ves-sei was iir.u no.
destination and therefore trying to
make a run for It. me u n h""" lfm(. submarine the commander of the
also led officials here to believe mat . uimmrlne had strong reason to be.
I the Persia could not have neen Pve from suspicious acts of the Persia
warned Inasmuch as 110 rumu,.. uui sne was a nriusn iran.puri
vv-iis seen atul the vessel sank five mln- carrying soldiers to Kgypt . or
utes after l-elng Plruck. ' .
Officials here ntiacn :
respondence with Berlin on the subject that there vvas no pann. l'he four
of submarine warfare was Intended lo boats which did sw ing clear and reach
cover the actions of Individual com-1 the water safely wvio filled .mil low
manilers as well as German submarines ere without disorder.
Not only was no warning given In
the Persia but the subni.uine was
s.illlnc under the German flag.
There Is a strong disposition In Stats
...... ........ ..l..lu ..nt Iitmn n I'nnm I
elusions until full details are obtained. 1 I10t Ht''"- 'Hher before the toipedo
Olllcials are disinclined to believe that struck or afterward, from the .steamer
he Austrian note last Friday, practl- or from the lifeboats.
tally complete In Its compliance with The Persia was travelling ,ti a speed
the American demands In the Ancona 0f between seventeen .mil eighteen
tose, wa Intended merely as a "scrip kmit(( wlu. hH, Uiu ,,.,K.k
of paper" Judging by their attitude, Th c.1Iltll,n s ,.
ailsh.tw, was
l!unmar,?s,,foun!ro,,.,av After the s,p .l-P.-red
been responsible for this new tragedy , he was seen swimming. l'he chief
a note will be sent to Vienna which will officer, the second officer and seven
either bring out such assurances for ( engineers were saved.
the future from Austria as will make
submarine warfare on commerce as Im
practicable for that country as It now
Is for Germany or compel a break in
diplomatic relations.
THINK M'XEKLY LOST,
StwHv3;SINKING WAS DELIBERATE,
X i7:- SAYS ASHMEAD-BARTLETT
ir; ;;;e::;o:ns,sem xrp
Department to omit v , ' ; T, n r)n. P-.U U Un., C ,l,crolon for ! sunk in the eastern M.slu, rtanean
the German iiinoi.nr..,. ......... .-, lilt 1 biam vuuiu lJUk. I Idvc LJi-iill ivuoiartvii iui rrh.lrMli ... ... ..
.o Alenllon nf Mini lu n 1. 1st of
.Surv Iv ors.
Sprajt Cablr prthitrh nt Till. Si
Lonpon, Jan. -Hobeit N y Mc
Neely, the newly appointed Americaii
Consul at Aden, probably lost bin Hfs
when the retilnniilar and Oriental
stcuushlp Persia was torpediMMl anil
. n tail It renil .'IH inuows
"A .A 'merchant vessel of bc!ll-jernl
nationality may carry an armament
ammunition for the sole pi rpose ot do-,
fe e" without acquiring the character .
of a ship of war.
"II The presence of nn armament
...imiiioii on board a merchant The sinking of the Peninsular and
1 ship creates a presumption that tiw Oriental meamer Persia by a submarine
armament Is Tor orrensive purr"-,
the ownets or agents may ovetenme this
a Warship or a Transport. British War
Correspondent Here Asserts.
was a most deliberate and unwarranted
Thursday afternoon. He vv.11 last seen
struggling In the water. There is 11
mention of his name In any of tb
lists of survivors so fur received.
No warning was given to the Pcrsu
liefore the tor(Mdo was launched, ae
cot cling to authoritative information
pice
umptlon by ehowing'that the vessel attack on a passenger vessel operating! tl,K crsla sinking occurred
is no other possible conclusion.
"1 do not know about the recent An-
con.i notes, hut I understand that the which It Is reliably understood Itobert
trouble had Just leen patched up when I J', Skinner, American CiMisuI-Gcnctnl
BUY 1,500 MILES OF PIPE.
tor-General by President Taft notwith
i:inrllmr that he was 11 Democrat. He
11,. prnjiii. in uimiii,. 11.11 jwii .... "t uner s last llglll l llier llglliniia , Piesldent Taffs ntnelnl
hat vou start then, thinking, and wh.nl ni0 1(celve, two bullet, was slashed '"'K c' f,r' ,1 e 4esldddriil c vm
leoplo start thinking they Ih'nlc , ;ll,riltH ,e head with a saber anil was " '! iy ""'.liTl T.ec us , desired To
ro,;ha.,MB,easo:,, l"nUao ttiK Sn "5' " )mi'Wl """" work and vole for a Democrat for Presl.
Chief .IuhIU'o WfnHlow whh under irl
consideration by President Taft and
would possibly have neen nppoirueii in- ,,,,, oaiKo,
lllr In I e It lo llrluw Wnler to
Cnmiis In Ck I.
lUi.TtMnriK, Jan. .'. Fifteen hundred r ,.rt, intended for
mllea of Iron piping to be used offensive operallons
OJ Uie rfttfir ,1.1 nnici Mini I , nn, mil in
their cumps III Bcypt will leave here on
Tuesday and Wednesday next for Alex
andria. The British stcaii ers Sfliiidvvell
and Oceana will carry the shipment, pot he used offensively are:
irrles armament solely for defence, entirely out of the beaten track of war
"C. F.vitlence to establish the ract trie. VyPsels ami transports, according to K.
"Tr Ashmead-Bartiett. the British war co,
m.iment bo mounted or stowed below respondent, who has recently been In Ihe
must lie presented In each rase hide- eastern Mediterranean,
penitently at nn official Investigation. Auil,r., submarines," Mr. Ash-
l!,,, intended for nnd will riot be usel Hotel Knickerbocker, where he is stay
Ing, "come out of their base on thn
Adriatic and deliberately lie In wait for
Itullnu on Armament. I passenger vessels In order to send lion-
Indications that the armament will combatants to the bottom. They do not
frequent the regular lanes used by war
here, has in his possession.
Mr. Aslviiead-Hartleit has some per- tu. ilfelsuitv illled with ucmd uei a
sonal knowledge of Teutonic submarines. , rf , ,,, at.cord-
as he was on board the British battle- despatch to the 7iic Ther.t
ship Majestic, which was torpedoed last 1,,K to a Pt-pati 11 to til. iik .v. iner.r
Mav In the Dardanelles. He was the " no time In whij'U to cut the ropes,
.-.tlkial correspondent of all the txindon Several ships passed by wuliout u
papers throughout the Dardanelles cam- slstlng the refugees, being afraid, prfc
palgn, but he was Injured when the mninbly. (if dis-oys
Majestic was sunk and had lo return to, Out of a total of 400 passeiigeis and
F.ngland for a short time kist June. crew tj,. steiuner only Ui3 vveio
He Jays that the submarine which Slivelli The survivors have nrrived at
sank Hie I'ers a was prol.ab y cvperat ng A,lln(lrla, ,.-.,. lt ,H 1()sMble that
.."uc'rasarrbefore.1!;:," f-' nmy be lidded ,., the
said, that submarines were operattng In received at the company s offices here,
the region where the Persia went down. I Tim number of lives lost Is about
Tl... .nhl.v.manl. nf th. Ili-llUI. .ill..' "f,(l nillUlllL' tll( dlK.I8ll'f Sl'l'lUllI OtllV
EXPERTS UPHOLD O0ETHALS.
. ' stead of Justice Lamar had It not been trh nhlnrnrnt Is s;i
Will Heporl to tlnrrUon C, , ThTi" Benotor La Follette declined to np-1 s'noO ?
slide Are lliniillrd lllizhl. jirove the seleellon, but suggested Instead I ' ' '
kind ever sent out of the United States. , rled does not exceed six inches. ships and transports wnere ii.ry ,, ,
Outside, the three mile limit the two "2. Tlut the gune and Btnall arms flnd legitimate prey because they are too
steamers will lie pitt by a convoy of carried are few In number. w'ell policed by trawlers nnd oilier patrol
allied warships, big enough, It Is said. "3. hnt " "L,"'""' I boats. Inste.nl they lie In wait off the. dlvcl under double rows of nets nnd , sl(VVmshlp Ancona. which vaults, third,
,,. ,nil hevolid lioss till It- nnv rllsnster l lli forward POI t Ol ine vessel. ..... V . . ' .i An.n)A..l.. An,nllA.l s c i
' " ' ,,i, n .,nmnin.. i,..iit.n track for a iieicuceic passenger onnt-" ii ...i.j .uu..nc,i m , B1,nk litis lives were last.
.' ."!'".'. .11 1 -10.. nd after they have sunk one they : of Marmora.
marines In the Dardanelles, he said, are, to the Lusltiinla on the list of p.is.-en-
the imost remarkable naval feats of tho r steamers sunk by Genu.iii ami
war. He told how they had repeatedly Austrian submarines. When the Italian
Ynu know, the best fertilizer Is weed, prologists appointed to cxamlrin Into the
slides at liaiuarti cui sailed ror Mew
n Paper Could Find Wnr. yolk lo-day. No slatiiuent was made
1 hy the experis, nur 11 is learneii rnar
Special Chlf Hf'-wri tn Tns Sis, 'l,'p vmmn ,n" ""-""' upremo
Panama, Jan. 2. The commls-lon nf 1 "pL'.i.ient Taft Invited Senator La Fob
lelln lo conie In tlle White House to con-
r he tvn.il. .srrled Is email. ; ship and after ney . ave suns , ..... ...r,
1 ..: .. i, ,.Miiiii' Is niiiiine.i liv us ' scuttle hack to ineir ease iiBaiu.
iiii .... - -t 1 ....it.i. .... .,n,.
It IS IIIIIIOSSIWI" " O '' .M.t.v
Un) 'a llrlllali l,iira, l.OilH.
Uptcial Vablt Dttpatrh lo Tiik Si .
. .. llm nOli'Mrs lire the unni.
hose on board before war was do-, We are doing everything In , our power to
..... nut an end to them, but they still slip
tmito. .n,i 1, lu Inouvslhle to slon I hem
fi. Thai the vessel inieuns 10 anci uy u . -
WALTHAM MAYOR MISSING.
"Don't you know that If the pews-
vprs wanted to they could i this
Continued on fourth i'age.
they wllmake a report to Secretary of
War GkVrlson that Gen, Ooethala's
method of handling the slides Is the only
effective one.
fori (III tied on 'Vilrd I'ltpe.
fcKAHOAHII H.llltlllA I.TII. tllfl p. M,
frmii I'rnnn. Htutlun, tjnlckrst. finest train
Pnulh vtit horlrst. ninst nttmrllva rout,
acifeoed Air Lino lty till Broawy. Aiv.
npon. Jan. 2. To-day's nfflclnf ' actually does clear for 11 port lying In Its ctUlrely,
casually list, covering all British fronts, usual trade route or a port Indicating' "We
gives Ihe number of officers at !). of lis purpose to conllnue In the same trade
wtioni 19 were killed, 11 ml ihiit of men n which It wns engaged heforo wnr was
at 9511, of whom J7i were killed, This declared.
makes to-dny's total casualties 1 ,03d, I "7, That Ihe vessel takes on board
of whom 395 were killed, fUej Kn,i supplies suftlcleut only to carry
weie not sending any transports
from France to Alexandria and the
rei-lnn where the Persia was sunk Is
ntliely out of the path of warships.
The submarine which sank the Persia
deliberately lay lu wait for her. There
Term Ksnlrra,
Boston, Jan, '-', Mayor Patrick F.
Keariis of Walt lulu has been missing
since Thin sdny night. He had been suf
fering from a severe cold,
Hie term expires to-morrow,
Mnny Nnllorw ntrrt,
Of Ihe 1,13 persons who h.ivn
reached Alexandria only flfly-nlne
assengers, I bo o
four being of Ihe rrew. Of the latter
llfty-nltio ate Lascars. There were
241 passengers on board ami 1D9 men
In the crew. It appear from iheso
figures that the number of salloM
saved wns out of ull proportion to tha
