7
r-f . : ...v;-
!i I
f
i
,VOL. 52--NO. 2
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., MONDAY, JANUARY 3, 1916
PRICE TWO CEXJT3
-'A
Bridlgeport
I .'H '
.i armeir
JLi vsh J-L' JlI LL JU, JJL P
. OF SfMMEl MRSIfV Will IiB)
m wmmm: w cmfe mew mm,
i -fMSMEMf CMT gMWf I(D)MIEM(D(D)M: TISEIF '
ItJTO "'DEATH.'
I'JESO'.HAD-Ni
-Medical. Examiner of Stratford Reports Case of John T.
Macllroy to County Official Dead Man Had Leaned
Toward Christian Science But Was Not Member of
the Faith,, - . ' : . eM
Unusual circumstances attending, the - death o John T.
Macllroy, a prominent resident OT' Stratford, have been re
ported By Medici; Examiner '.William H. , , Cogswell pf that
town t6NCor one1 John,J.' Phelant, '' ' ' :, .. ' j-J M ; -
-MatellrQy'a' death occurred early to-
day. N Ha liaa heen- ill for 10, days.
ii.ii eumatism was believed to ha the
. cause of his mess; at first, bu-ti as his
condition grew more serious complica
. tions arose; No physician saw the in
' walid xmtillast night, when -'Dr. De
H.uyter Howland, of Stratford, was
summoned by the little son of -the pa
tient. :" ; -.': . :c'--'- - A '. i
Because of the critical, naturie of his
illness," the' physician, learning that no
' other medical aid has been given Mac
llroy, reported tile circumstances . to
Dr. Cogswett. That ofHcial today gav
tlfss cause sol death atr -bronchial' pneu
monia, 'but owing to -the non-attendance
.of physicians, he decided that
the case was properly ma -for, the cor-,
oner -to investigate, i . ' ' "
Macllroy -had taken a, rkeerL' interest !
in the -v tenets of - Christlani xScience;
This, his friends said today, was the I
reason1 Is "rexnaed to allow any physi
cian t attend: him. He was not a
fneraber of the f Christians 'SciCTceJ.
ch-uroh, although he often attended its
meetings. - Its pastor,-Rev. EL C. Car
penter, called at the MacSroy home,
in Spring5, street, yesterday.;-- Itf was
said in Strafford -today that th clergyman-recommended
urgently to 'th
sick ma.rj' family . that a physician, be
te called, and that Sn nis representa
tions the littla son of Macllroy .called
on Dr. Howlafld last evening, jsum
moning him to the heme, 117 Warwick
COUNSEL DEIJIES
GERTRUDE PIKE
IS HOT NORMAL
' N 1 '
ITever Has ' Been Insane,
XPleads Attorney, in Su-
; '.perior. uourt, Today, ;
Gertrude Iike, 'the rch New -Xork
resident who is making a. fight to be
released from Dr. Ghrens' cahftarium
in Stamford, appeared again before
JudgeCurtis In the" civil ! superior
court' this morning. She was- accom
panid by two - nurses from the sani-
tarium. ' Mrs. Pike, a pale-faoed
"woman, apparently about 35 years
old, was Jhandsomely dressed, -l
She declares her husband j Arthur
E. Pike, prominent Wail street
broker, abducted her from her River
side Drive apartment and rushed her
In an automobile to the Stamford san
itarium in October. 1914. Last month
she was formally adjudged insane by
two physicians appointed by the Stam-
; ford probate court. ' " ')
Attorney Tinney of New York, who
'represents Mrs. Pike, filed a petition
today-in which he declared Mrs. Pike
was not a resident of this state, that
- she is not and never has been insane
and has been deprived of her liberty
without due process--of law. Attorney
. Lockw-ood , of Stamford - representing
Dr. Given s, asked time to frame a re-
" Piy to this petition so court was ad
. joumed until lata this afternoon. Mrs.
Pike was brought into, court on a writ
of babeaus corpus served on Dr.
1 Civena 4- '
. : : : '.'.-
WOMAN ROBBED OF
$300 IN STOCKING
WHILE SHE SLEEPS
1
- Mrs. Paula Crokus, whose bus
band, John, Is sv Crane Co. , em
ploye, went to toed with her stock
ings on likht night, because shel
thou glit one of the bU ings would
be the safest place she could select
to conceal a roll of $3uO the fam
ily had accumulated for. furnishing
' a new home.
About 2 o'clock this morning her
boarding house,' 405 Slain street,
resounded ' with screams of the
baby wlio shared the mother's bed.
Mrs.' Crokus awoke and felt a draft
upon her lower limbs. She started
up with sudden--fear, 'found her
stocking! down, and her money
gone. .- ' ':-'.-
- Bright and early she appeared
in the detective bureau at police
headquarters to ask assistance in
recoverliis her little fortune.
OUIRE ' PMiflUHAM I u TEH ElILtED IS .ANOTHER
OF r.lAW RfcSlGN BY JUNt! iRRITISE. PA'S'SEfiGER SHIP
I DOCTOR Y y,sT m IS 'TORPEDOED -AHD 3UEIC '
! 1 . - i: '. TTAftd rf Will r? a TJonarfmoTit. '' . . ' - "
. if. : v
Macllroy was widely known in. both
Stratford Nmd Bridgeport. , He was
prumineni zraiemaiiy. ne look au. ac
tive interest in Masonic affairs, and
once was master of St. John's lodge,
F. & A. ML,: of- Stratford. He was em
ployed as an accountant 'With the
a- L '
.Macllroy had been in his home for
10 . days.- Sostcof the time he was
bedridden. Last nigjit he was lapsing
into unconsciousness when, acting (up
on the advice . of ths-clergyman, it is
said, Mrs1. MacDroy called a physician.
It was late last nigh when the doctor
arrived, and he found the 'patient so
ill that he failed to respond to; stimu
lants. ! Death occurred about 1 o'clock.
.Although Mr, 1 Macllroy. is knro , to
"have leaned toward the Christian -Sci-i
ence faith, JTredericlc A. Peitzsch, first
reader 'of the church inthis city, de
ttied today that the dead man was a
membervor tHaV he had been- attended
by Christian. Science -readers f during
hisfatal .illness. - Mr. ; Peitzsch said it
is not ; :thfl(, ouatoni , the Christian
Science readers in this Ity J to. ?visit
the' sick "in the place of physicians.
He said Mr. Macllroy. appeared much
interested ' in the principles of the
Christian Science faith and frequently
attended the meetings at the reading
room in Lafayette street. He said
Mr. Maellroy took no official part in
the church work-- Miss Jessie Kinsley
of - North avenue is the other reader
of - the church. There is no branch in
Stratford. - C V V v
CITY'S SHARE IM
LIQUOR REVENUE
ABOUT $120,000
Kaise in License Cost Brings
t Greai Increase to Bridge-'
port"Treasury.
-'' ' ' ' V - " -
The city of Bridgeport ,will receive
a check for fll 9,78 9. S0t for its, share
oi tne money derived from the sale of
liquor, licenses during December: This
is a large increase over the amount
received last jrear due 'to the fact that
the" price of licenses was raised from
$450 to $7501 , ,
r The county commissioners also sent
to the state treasurer a check for $46.
97 S, representing the state's - share
from the license funds. ' ' The couny
get $18,429.25. In -this city 846 liquor
licenaes. have already been -issued, 43
drug and one beer. During the past
month ?30 was received from the sale
of club liceiises. '' ' S '
FRENCH RELEASE
GERMANS SEIZED
ON U.S.lfESSELS
- Washington, Jan, 3 The State De
partment was officially .dvised today
that the French government, fn re
sponse to representations made bythe.
UniteJ States, has ordered the Imme.
diate release of Germans recently re
moved from American ships on the
high seas by the French cruiser Des,
juries, .. f.
FINE MA3V
O BAITED COPS.
Playing hide-and-seek with police
men who responded repeatedly to his
calls for help, cost Stephen Galinko
$5 and costs in the city court today.
Galinko caused an uproar in Spruce
street,, where he lives, early today, by
yellingfrom an open window on the
second floor, then on the third floor,
and hiding when the policemen rush
ed into, the house to prevent what
they supposed to be an impending
tragedy. (-They finally discovered him
hiding in an unused chimney. He Was
charged wth drunkenness, cre'atfng a
aisiuroance ana resisting arrest. '
A :,heavy snowstorm struck Sacra
mento, Cal., and the district" about
there.
A public . reception will be held to
-welcome Zxenry Ford back to Detroit.
Head of Police Department
Has Many Callers At
Headciuarters A .",
MANY CHANGES IN :
DEPARTMENT SOON
Cronan is Likely to Get Ar
nold's Placenn Detective
Bureau. U
.Superintendent Eugene - Birming
ham of the police 'department today
stated to the. Farmer that he will re
sign this year. He "has not decided
definitely on the date but said that
it might . be ' as early as April. "; The
superintendent is completing his 44th
year in the police department. He
was appointed a. member Nov. 25,
18J2. ' . . - ,-r-
At' police headquartera--tliis morn
ing .were' more than - a - score of ad
mirers of the superintendent, many of
them prominent in. the civic . life ' of
Bridgeport, -who called to extend the
seasons greetings. Many of them urg
ed him to alter his purpose of resign
ing, but to no avail All compliment
ed him upon his. unblemished -record
ror service, a. record which nas no
equal in .the country. ' . ;
Who wlil be the successor of Supt.
Birmingham Is still .unsettled. . It may
be. Lieut Charles H. Suckley. " Thero
will be many other changes including
those in the - detective Abureau, to be
caused by "the "resignation:. Of Captain
George ,13. Arnold, which will take
place at the same' time; as that of
Supt. Birmingham. "
Edward O. Cronan, senior detective
sergeant. Is likely to he head of the
bureau. tdeut. Philip 1 Blanafleld al
so is mentioned, .j ? '
Around police headquarters the lafc
est su prise is the mention of Detective
Sergeant George A. Haur as the prob
able appointee to the proposed new
position of lieutenant of the detec
tive bureau. Sergeant Ilaux hasact
ed as clerk for Captain Arnold as well
as handling "the Bertilbn system for
the last six years. - Hanx. is a son-
in-law of Superintendent Birmingham,.
Captain John JI. Redgate is said
to have the backing of the manufac
turing interests for the, office of Su
perintendent. ? "
Captain John H. Regan, has also
"been mentioned for the office and if
the choice Of his successor was left
to Superintendent Birmingham' it is
said that Capt. Regan would receive
the plum. ' ...., r r : ,. , . :'
Among the men (mentioned' for re
tirement are: Superintendent Eugene
Birjningham,'44 years on the depart
ment? Capt. George H. Arnold, : 47
years; Captain-. William i. .naerson,
4 3 years; ,. Detective Sergeant' Peter
Hackett, 32 years; ' Lieutenant John
Quinlivan, 2ti years; Doorman Charles
Lush,' 27 years. : It is said that there
are- four other due to walk the plank.
appropriatioi calling for the appoint
ment or eo poncemen. ai ims requosi
is granted several " more street ser-
geapts will be appointed and ten, men
added to the -detective bureau. a
squad 'of 20 plainclothes" men will be
assigned to night duty on the streets
to combat the efforts "of burglars. Be
tween 1 40 and 60 policemen will be
appointed and other changes will take
place, probably in April.
XPLOSIOM
013 VESSEL
KILLS 0
is e w y ork, Jan. 3. One
man was killed, 1.0 were ser
iously injured and 18 others
are missing following an ex
plosion and fire today in the
steamship Aztec at a Brook
lyn dry dock.
: t y
Miss Hummet, Gives, . x
New Year's Function
Miss Harriet Hummel entertained a
party of f riende at her home, 119
James street, New .Tear's evening. Fa
vsrs in keeping with the holiday spirit
were presented to- the guests. Sing
ing and dancing were enjoyed and a
luncheon was served. The color
scheme was red and green. Among
those present were: "Lila Gorman,
Hazel Cavanaugh. Ester Laveen, Lou
ise Franz, Margaret Rivers, Bessie
Oarvey, Katherine Brennan, Florence
and Beatrice Coughlin, Mrs. Annie
.Coughliri, Arthur . Witstanly, Walter
Laveen. Gus Herthal, Jr., Joe Falvey
Denis Tobin, William Lamond, and
Mr. and Mrs. Alfred W. Tomlinson.
' ""' . '' ' ", ' ' ' - "
1 London, Jan. 3 The British steamship Glengyje has been;
sunk. Ten Jives were lost. There are about 100 survivors.
The Glengyle had on board about 120 persons, passengers
and crew. All, with the exception of 'three Europeans and
seven Chinese, were landed. So far as is known no Americans
were on board. " x i . - ' . -." . y -
The Glengyle, which was .homeward bound from Shang
hai, was (Sunk in the Mediterranean on Sunday. This was her
secbpd voyage. " . ,
The Glengyle sailed from Shanghai
for London on Jov. 25. She was" last
reported at Sipgapore on Dec. 6- Her
route would take her through the jSuez
Canal and the Mediterranean, and it
may be assumed she was sunk in the
Mediterranean as were the Persia,
Ville be La Ciotat, Tasaka Maru, and
several other steamships. i
' The Glengyle was one. of the -largest
steamships which bays, been sunk
" XiOndon, Jan. 3. The loss of life in
connection witix the sinking - of the
British steamship Persia torpedoed in
the Eastern ' Mediterahean on Thurs
day afternoon, is still a matter of
doub. Latest advices from' Cairo and
Alexandria indicates that 158 survivors
have been landed, .of" whom $9- -vere
passengers. -Hope that otherihave
been saved , is diminishing, as four
days have now elapsed since the vessel
was destroyed. -" . '
. No further word has been received
concerning Robert INF. McNeely, Amer
ican' consul at . Aden, Arabia, and
there seems to be little doubt that he
was drowned. The, safety of Charles
tGrant, of Boston, having been estab
lished, it is thought Mr. McNeely' was
the only American who-perishedj It is
still impossible to give even with ap-j
proximate 'accuracy the loss of life, as
the number of persons on board has
RUSSIAN
SCENE OF NEW
ALLIED ATTACK
; -; - .- -'
General Ivanofif's Forces in
Drive Make Considerable
.' ': ' : Headway. , .' t
London, Jan. 3. The latest -des
patches from the ' southern extremity
of the Russian , front indicate that
heavy fighting is .continuing, with the
Russian army of General Ivanofr gain
ing ground. One, correspondent re-r
ports that these operations began with
an offensive movement on lihe part' of
the Austrlans, designed to straighten
their line and that after repulsing this
attack, the Russians assumed the in
itiative. ,
It is- evident that the Russian 'ad
vance has now extended ' a consider
able distance beyond the Stripa river.
In other despatches it is asserted
that two- great offensive actions
clashed, the Russians having ad
vanced as a threat against the Teu
tons in their Balkan operations while
the , Austrians and Germans felt the
necessity of improving their posi
tions against' the Russian. Whatever
may be the facts of the case, there is
ho doubt the result of- these operations
will, have' an important effect on the
Balkan eamfcaign.
It is reported, wltn increasing ire-
quency that the central powers are
planning an attack on Saloniki but
they 'are said to be experiencing diffi
culties with Bulgaria which does not
wish , to participate in such a cam
paign unless it promises something
more than expulsion of the allies from
Saloniki. v .
In Athens anxious thought is being
given, to the- seizure of the -consuls-representing
Germany , and . her allies
at Soloniki. ,. It is expected that so far
aS Greece is concerned, the incident
will be closed with the release of the
consuls under safe conduct.
While requiring some such action by
the entente powers. Greece also has
protested to Germany against the
aeroplane attack on Saloniki.
England awaits with interest details
regarding the bill for compulsory mil
itary service which Premier Asquith
will introduce in the . House of Com
mons on Wednesday.
It is announced that Ireland will
come within the -scope of the bill.
THE WEATHER
lair and colder Tuesday.
since the activity of submarines in the
Mediterranean became pronounced.
Her ' gross tonnage was '9,395." She
was owned by the Glen Line, pf Glas
gow, and was -the largest steamship of
that line.' '!'.
, The - Glengyle had been in. service
only a comparatively short time, hav
ing been built at Newcastle in 1914
She was 500 feet long, 62 feet beam
and 134 feet deep: Her master was
Captain . Webster.
not been established.. . . ,.
The passengers numbered something
more than 200 and there were between
200 and.,300-members or 'the1 crew, so
thar apparently the, death list will run
argety. over zou. j ragmemary. ac
counts "of. the disaster as have' been
obtained add - little new information
concerning the . cause of the: sinking.
All' agree,1 however, that he Persia
sank with extraordinary , speed,' within
Hve "minutes after she was struck.
None : of the survivors who have this
far reported their experiences saw any
sign of a submarine. v - . . "
The extent to whiclr popular feeling
has been aroused in the allied nations
by the sinking of the Persia is indi
cated by the unrestrained tone of
press coJnment. There is much spec
ulation as to the possible influence of
this event on the negotiations . which
are in progress between the United
States and Austria ' i ,
LOCKED Ifi CARS,
PEACE JITNEURS
TO GO TO HAGUE
Germany Grants Ford Party
; Right to Cross Territory '
Under Close "Watch.
A .
. Copenhagen, ' Jan.' 3 -The German
government ' has . granted the Ford
peace expedition permission ,to travel
to ' The Hague through Germany by
special train. . The party will ISave
Copenhagen next Friday.
. - Tho final arrangements for ,the trip
were made through the German con
sul in Copenhagen who, after con
sultation with Berlin, announced that
his government . was willing for the
mission to proceed through German
territory; This privilege was grant
ed despite the. refusal of the Ameri
can state department to extend 'the
passports of the'mem'bers of the par
ty to cover a belligerent. - , -,
. Their train will be sealed. v every
one being locked within. . No one will
'be permitted to touch German soil
during the Journey. The - members
of the missiofn will not be permitted
to, carry written, printed or typewrit
ten papers.
The concealment of any paper, even
of ,an innocent character, will' result
In complications for the entire party.
Other, things that : the party must
abandon before reaching German ter
ritory are cameras, postcards, opera
glasses and- gold coin. Most of the
baggage of the expedition will 'be
shipped back to the United States
from Copenhagen.
It "is announced that, the expedition
Will disband at The Hague on Jan. 12,
most of rie members returning home
from Rotterdam on that day.
V
Worcester's Mayor -
Hits Bonding Policy
Worcester, Jan. 3 In his inaugural-
address today, Mayor George ! M.
Wright urged a continuation of the
"pay-as-you-go" policy adopted by
the city, ten months ago. Under this
policy loans are prohibited except for
enlargement of water works, erection
of new high school buildings, elimina-
tionof grade crossings, construction
oA trunk sewers, enlargement of sewvl
purification
works and great
emergencies.
01ETMM2iO:-
' : . . - ': .'. A
Chief Executive To Return To Capital at Once To !
Take Charge of Investigation of Newest !
U-Boat Attack Vienna, Ready to Disavow
Attack If Bv Austrian Submarine. AsksxFor
Fullest Inquiry Parallel 'to Arabic Crisis1
Seen in Loss of Passenger Ship With United;
States Consul Aboard State Department, o j
JSerye Warnings on All Teutonic Allies.
DEVELOPMENTS TODAY IN SUBMARINE
WARFARE AFFECTING UNITED STATES
, President Wilson .curtails honeymoon- and leaves Hot
Springs,. Va,, for Washington to direct investigation of attack
on steamer Persia. ' N
Baron Zwiednek,V Austrian charge in Washington, says
Vienna will repudiate sinking , if accomplished by Austrian
(submarine. , , '
Steamer Persia carried, one gun, United States consul re
ports. Position of gun mounting will figure largely in deter-
4 mining whether attack was
' Off icials view latest developments in ; U-boat warfare,
which killed one American, as paralleling crisis with Germany
over Arabic incident: : ? S '
.Another British steamer, the Glengyle, with 120 passen
gers,' sunk in Mediterranean. JVo Americair reported among
ten lives lost. ' ' '.-" '
(Washington, Jan. 3. President Wilson wilj return to the1
capital tomorroW to take charge of the new crisis in foreign re- j
lations caused by the submarine campaign in the Mediterranean '
with the loss of A.eric8Tlife; , . .;
' ' After conferences overdhe telephone betweeiThe' President ; '
and Private Secretary. Tumulty and Secretary Lansing,-it .was i
announced at the .White House arid also at Hot Springs, Va., that
the President w-puld start back to Washington tonight, arriving '
tomorrow. '.,","'( ; - '
' ; , CASE PARALLEIJS ARABIC CBSIS '
It was stated authoritatively that the, destruction of the Bri-f
tish liner Persia, with loss of American life, and the sinking of'
the British! ship Glengyle had put such a serious aspect on the j
relations-of the United States with the Teutonic powers that the
iPresident considered it necessary, to return to' the White House
at once for conferences with
members of the .cabinet to shape the course, of " the government.
' The situatioii as it exists, today 'vas described in official
quarters as paralleling the crisis which was caused by the sink-ing-xf
the Arabic close on Germany's assurances in response to
the4resentations of the United States on the destruction of the
Lusitania. ' ; ;. .
i . During'. the ''morning JBaron!
trian embassy, called on Secretary Lansing and asked that judg- i
ment be withhelduntil all the
belief .that a final' explanation,
sought anyayailable information
inent. - ;- ,-;' .''
AUSTRIA READY TO
. Baron Zwiedinek also assured S,ecretary Lansing, that if it
were proved that an Austrian submarine had sunk the Persia his
government would give full reparation and satisfaction.
, While American'off icials are keeping their minds open until
they-have -all the-facts in the Persia' case officially and know
whether Americans'were endangered in the sinking of the Glen
tfvleEhe'gravity of the situation is not minimized and the declar
ation of Baron Zwiedinek, the Austrian charge, that he was con
fident the final explanation would satisfy, has not lessened tha
tension. - - . Y . , 1
One new fact developed today in the Persia case. The Amer
ican consul at Alexandria reported that the ship carried one 4.7
inch gun but did not stale where the gun wars mounted. This
maybecomera factor in the case. The Hague convention, how
ever, provides that a merchant ship may .carry a gun mounted
on the sterA for purposes of defense without being considered
an armed ship. '
Persia Carried Gim ' '
The official view 'here is that the
question of whether a gun was mount
ed on the Persia will depend entirely
on- where it was placed. If mounted
forward officials realized the Austrian
government could contend the Persia
was armed for destruction of subma
rines and had Instructions to ram or
destroy. -the submerslbles. The dispo
sition is not to assign the incident of
the gun to a place in consideration of
the case until all the facts are known.
Officials consider that the Austrian
submarine campaign in the Mediter
ranean has brought on Just such a
crisis as did the German submarine
campaign in the declared war zone
ar6und the British Isles. Corning
close on the conciliatory assurances in
Austria's Ancona note, tne continued
submarine activity principally around
the entrance to the Suez Canal has
alarmed and amaaed American offi
cials who have grave s apprehensions
over the development of the next few
days.
The department gave out two des
patches regarding the sinking' of the
Persia. The first, from Consul Gen
eral Arnold,, dated, Jan. 1 follows:
"P. & O. steanrer Persia torpedoed
40 miles southeast of Crete,, Thursday,
1:05 p. m.. without warning. JNation-
I ality submarine unknown as not vis-
warrranted.
Secretary Lansing and the other
' ; .l . .
Zwiedinek; .p'h'age of the Aus
facts were in and expressed his;
would be satisfactory. He also ;
for the benefit of his govern-!
.,.'- ,.- . -
REPUDIATE ATTACK !
-350 passengers and rew including
many women and children. About 150
saved. Survivors picked up after 30
hours by British destroyer Mallard."
"Reported that American consul j
proceeding to post at Aden, vlost. De- j
tails given me by high commissioner
whose military secretary Bingham is ,
survivor. Can ' obtain affidavit If re-
quired." . -
The second was from Consul Gar
rels at Alexandria, Egypt, dated Jan.
1, and. received yesterday. It was:
"P. ' & O. liner Persia carrying 4.7
gun, sunk five minutes past 1 after
noon Dec. 30th, about 300 miles north
west Alexandria. Presumably tor
pedo, no submarine was seen, second
officer Bromley seeing torpedo's
track. . .
"Steamer sunk in, about five min
utes. ' Two American citizens aboard.
Charles H. Grant, -is safe at Alex
andria. Robert Nye McNeely, assign
ed consul of United States at Aden,
most probably lost. Of a total 400
passengers and crew, 15 6' landed at
Alexandria Jan. 1. McNeeley last seen
in water. In view of fact sunken
vessel being armed, does the depart
ment desire the affidavits?"
The-department has advised the
consul that it does desire the Affida
vits. -
-Secretary Lansing announced !.
(Continued on Page 2.)
.-' ).--: ' . . '
! !
