fi
VOLUME TWENTY-THREE
ARDMORE, OKLAHOMA, MONDAY, JANUARY 3, 1916.
NUMBER 75.
RUSSIAN OFFENSIVE UNDER
IFF IS GAINING GROUND
ALONG EXTREME SOUTHERN FRONT, RUSSIANS' GREAT
OFFENSIVE IS MAKING MUCH HEADWAY UNDER
COMMAND OF IVANHOFF.
On Other Theatres of War there has been Little Activity Dur
ing the Past Few Days Reports Persist that the Central
Powers are Planning Attack on Saloniki, but that Bul
garians Refuse to Participate in Such a Campaign, Unless
She is Promised More than Mere Expulsion of the Allies
from the Grecian City of Salor' 5 Athens Said to be Giv
ing Serious Consideration to t rrest of the Teutonic
Consuls in Greece by the Fren6 ind that the French
Consul at Sofia May be Arrested i, Retaliation Martial
Law to be Declared in Greece on y Fifteenth, and
Parliament Session to be Called for th, -venteenth.
London, Jan. 3. Heavy
fighting continues on the ex
treme southern Russian front,
where General Ivanhoff in
command of the Russian troops
is gaining ground with a heavy
offensive movement.
On the other theatres, little
activity is reported.
Reports continue that the
jf Central Powers are about to at-
' tack Saloniki, but that Bulgaria
': refuses to participate in such a
campaign unless promised
more than the expulsion of the
entente forces from Saloniki.
Athens is said to have given
serious thought to the arrest of
the Germanic Allies' consuls by
the French there, and it is re
ported from Sofia that the
French consul there may be ar
rested in retaliation.
Athens reports say that mar
tial law will be declared in
Greece January 15th, and that
the parliament session will be
called for the 17th to confirm
the order.
BEGflREfbLTO '
WHOM YO U SELL
CIGARETTES
NO CRIMINAL
CASES TO BE
TRIED NOW
JUDGE FREEMAN ANNOUNCES
THAT THE CRIMINAL DOCKET
SET FOR THE 6TH OF THE
MONTH HAS BEEN POSTPONED.
The criminal docket of district court
that was to have begun January 6, hasy k hi In ma League of Pressmen and
"KEEP OKLA
HOMA WORK N
0
1
COMMON-SENSE TALK MADE BY
R. N. WOMACK AT LABOR HALL
SATURDAY NIGHT BEFORE THE
CLOSE OF MEETING.
It. . Womark, president of I lie
PROMINENT CITIZEN WRITES A
LETTER TO SUPERINTENDENT
OF CITY SCHOOLS CALLING FOR
AID.
French to Release Germans.
Washington, Jan. 3. The state de
partment was notified today that the
French government has ordered the
release of the Germans taken from
American ships in Porto Itican waters
In response to the representations of
the United States.
Passage for Ford Party.
Copenhagen, Jan. 3. The German
government gives the Ford peace par
ty permission to travel through Ger
many to The Hague by special non
stop train with all the doors sealed.
This is to eliminate the danger of
Failing through the heavily mined
North sea. Strict traveling condi
tions will be imposed.
German Victory at Labasse.
rrcrlin, Jan. 3. The war office an
nounces n German attack on the
French at Labasse, when a trench
was blown up and all the occupants
killed. Some of the allied troops fled.
t Another British Ship.
London, Jan. 3. The Hritish ship
Glengyle was sunk in the Mediter
ranean. She carried 120 passengers,
none of them Americans. All but
seven of them were saved. The lirit
ish steamer Oswald Is also reported
to have been sunk.
There Is a movement on foot in this
city to prosecute all who sell cigar
ettes to minors, and the superintend
ent of the city schools stated this
morning that he was going to pros
ecute all who violated the law in
this respect.
This morning Superintendent Rich
ards received the following letter from
a prominent citizen of this city who
is familiar with the state law rela
tive to selling cigarettes, and who
is anxious to institute prosecution
against anyone found violating same.
The names are omitted at the request
of Superintendent Richards, but he
can furnish the same to anyone in
terested in the matter:
"Prof. C. W. Richards.
"Supt. City Schools,
"Ardmore, Oklahoma.
"My Dear Sir:
"I have recently learned from re
liable sources that my son has been
smoking cigarettes. I have reliable
information that certain parties in
been Indefinite' postponed by order of
District Judge Freeman, and a notice
lias been printed advising all jurors,
and witnesses not to appear upon that
date. Due notice will be given when
the court desires to hear the cases
set.
This morning court convened and ! l" inl i"R demanded
the motion docket will be heard today
and tomorrow. Several important crim
inal cases are on the docket for this
term.
The reason assigned for the post
ponement Is that a court of inquiry w ill
convene to investigate conditions at
Kngtovvn and other sections of the oil
field districts, nnd in the event any
cases are made they will be included
in the regular docket and reset for
early hearing. As soon as the wit
nesses can be summoned, the court of
inquiry will take up the matter of in
vestigating the conditions in the places
above mentioned.
FATAL AFFAIR
AT WOODFORD
SATURDAY
ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE OF A
PISTOL CAUSES INSTANT DEATH
OF AGED CITIZEN LATE SATUR
DAY AFTERNOON.
Assistants' unions, delivered an ad
dress before the meeting adjourned
Saturday night, which was worth re
membering by every union man, and
all who sympathize with union labor,
when he urged that such pressure be
brought upon legislators that all
by the state be
done in Oklahoma and not sent out
of the state, as in the past, in many
instances to non-union shops. Mr.
Womaek stated the position of the
printing trades in this matter, and
insisted that some legislation along
this line be demanded in the future.
Everything required by the state
and counties in the state can be man
ufactured right here in Oklahoma by
union shops, and he urged that this
he done. The meeting which was held
in this city Friday and Saturday was
most successful and harmonious, :nd
much good will result from the
second annual convention.
WILSON HURRIES TOTRECJPITOL
AS RESDLT OF SINKING OF PERSIA
CUTS SHORT HONEYMOON STAY IN HOT SPRINGS AND
LEAVES THERE TONIGHT FOR NATIONAL CAPITAL
AS RESULT OF NEW DEVELOPMENTS.
Austrian Charge Asks Secretary Lansing Today to Withhold
Judgment Until all Facts are in, also Assuring American
Secretary that if an Austrian Submarine Sank the Persia,
Austria Will Give Full Reparation and Satisfaction to
American Government Parallel to Sinking of Arabic
Following Germany's Assurances to United States, is Seen
in Sinking of Persia by Austrians Now Reported Pres
ence of Gun on the Persia to be Investigated by Repre
sentatives of American Government Japanese Warship
Squadron Said to have left Japan for Suez Canal as Re
sult of Sinking of Japanese Ships in Mediterranean An
other British Steamer Sunk.
COMMISSION
ERS IN REGUUn
mniiTin n piippt
ft M n v m
mum ML! 'VILLI
CITIZENS' COM
MITTEE WILL
RE-COIEI
SEVERAL CASES SET DOWN FOR
HEARING JAN. 5. MOST AF THE
CASES HAVE BEEN DISPOSED OF
BY THE CLAIM DEPARTMENT.
The citizens' committee will recon
vene Wednesday for the purpose of
a ijustlng claims between the citizens
and I lie Santa Fe Railroad Company,
r.nd they hope to have every one Ret
tied by the fifteenth of the month. The
cases set down for Wednesday are
the following:
J. F. Anthony, personal injury; II,
p. Knnis, personal injury; w. c. Dai- asked that judgment on
Washington, I). C, Jan. 3.
President Wilson will cut short
his honeymoon and will leave
Hot Springs tonight for Wash
ington, because of the new de
velopments in the international
situation caused by the sinking
of the Persia.
Consular dispatches from Al
exandria mentioned that the
Persia carried a gun. While the
presence of a gun might cause
discussion to cloud the issue,
the position of the gun would
determine if it is to be a factor.
The United States has held that
guns mounted on the stern do
not make the vessel "armed."
The situation is described as
paralleling the crisis caused by
the sinking of the Arabic close
on Germany's assurance in re
sponse to the representations on
the Lusitania.
Charge Sweidenek of
Austrian embassy called
Secretary Lansing today
the
on
and
the
ROUTINE BUSINESS TO BE DIS
POSED OF AND SEVERAL
SPECIAL MATTERS WILL BE
CONSIDERED BY THE BOARD.
ley, personal injury; W. D. Dunham,
personal injury; Susie Jloker, person
al injury; W. F. Taylor, personal In
jury; Hillary Clark, personal injury;
John Palmer, property loss.
The board of county commissioners
are in regular monthly session at the
court house today with all members
present.
Several important matters are to
WON CORN PRIZE FOR
FIVE CONSECUTIVE YEARS.
Late Saturday afternoon while Louis
Kockett a well known citizen of the
Woodford community, with his son,
was feeding stock from a crib on the
i place, a pistol was accidentally dis-
icbarced. the bullet enterinc flip linrL-
this citv are selling and furnishing! ... .
, lof his head, causing instant death,
cigarettes to school boys. I would be I ... , ,
h , ' , liis son states that his father hand-
verv glad indeed if you find my son I
h , . '. icd li tin the pistol from the crib door,
smoking or with cigarettes in his; ., ,
" , land in passing it behind him the ham-
possession, to notify me. , , ,,
' .liner in some manner fell upon a eart
hy- virtue of an act of the last;
, , " . , ,.. ! ridge an J it was discharged, with the
legislature, minors found with cigar- ,
. . . , , . , above result,
ettes in their possession can be taken .
. . . i (' llle remains were brought to this
before one of our courts and made to
, .,, j ,, , f'ty all(l shipped this morning to Wil-
upon their refusal to disclose the name '"'' -on lor interment. Deceased is sur-; Keller property and throw the road
Hen Colbert of Tishomingo Is an
Ardmore visitor today. Mr. Colbert has
for live years in succession taken the
first prize on corn In the State of Ok
lahoma. 1 Te also lum nr't Ihwu unit....
come before the board at this meeting ' s f,aUlu aml c,ll(.k(,ns Hjs
aside from routine business. A petl- L,,, tllP ,mst year rnH,1(1 more than a
Hon lias been filed bv the board asking .. , , , , , ,
h l hundred bushels of corn on one acre
that the road to Woodford be straight- , r i..,i n . . i i i
" lof land. .Mr. ( olbert takes a keen In
ened out at the clly limits and put on !,I)P,W. . ,, ,. ,u ,. ,
the section line instead of crossing di
agonally the ('nice property to the
tand pipe as it does at present. This
will cause the closing of the present
road between the hooker and Von
derful things in his county.
vived by a wife, one son and two i west past the Yon Keller home to the
of the vendor, the court can order! ' " Dl"' ",,,J l"u! "" ' " 10 uie
the partv so refusing kept in jail R"W- was in tils olst year at , i.on line, tnence rlirectly north to
until he 'does disclose the name of it!,e ti,ne of llis ll'atl' Woodford as at. present,
the partv selling or furnishing cigar-j Mr' U(,t'kl'tl was P"oJ citiz'. ' I C":missionor Young stated after
(,!))S Uhe entire community was shocked at '(ailing the petition that the commis-
jp'uie moor uiuaie acciuem. miucts coumi noi reiuse to act as tile
p'litlonets reipiested, for the reason
More Than Two Hundred.
London, pec. ,1. There is uncer
tainty regarding the number lost on
"In the event I can learn
names of parties selling cigarettes to
my son, I promise you I will pros
ecute the partv. The man who sells
cigarettes to minors Is
to more respect than the vendor of
whiskev, ho is not entitled to license
to transact business in a
community."
HE DOES THINGS
that the road was now traversing pri- j
van property and was damaging the;
not ontitloil Traveling Salesman Made Record Sale land through which it passed. Tin
by Long Distance Phone
During the holidays there was
board will probably pass upon this
I
! I
IE DEAD ID
mi i k i iiinrn
lUIHIitU i
IfJIBDDMj
Persia be withheld until all the
facts are in, also assuring that
if an Austrian submarine sank
the Persia, that Austria would
give full reparation and satis
faction to the American government.
T
F
T HET T
PROGRESSIVE FARMER HITCHES
PLOW TO TRACTOR AND DOES
THE WORK OF MANY HORSES
AT MUCH LESS EXPENSE.
a question today.
. ' lTll..f ill ir .if U.tlttlti.t-,, L-.,1...',,w.n f.... ... I
civilized " ........... .-,,.,..- lul lM,- (
iCarhartt liros. held in Dallas. There i
AT GRAND VIEW FARM.
i i " i c ji!ciii. no complained oi leu
the Persia, which was sunk by a ..,., r. vr.v....n.v ,w nroli. sales and looked fin-u-anl t, ,lrv
I
EXPLOSION IN STEAMER AZTEC
IN BROOKLYN DRY DOCK, RE
SULTS IN DEATH OF ONE PER
SON AND INJURY TO OTHERS.
submarine in the
Mediterranean.
ably lost. All accounts confirm the year, hut A. D. I'eteruian who repre
Latest dispMehos say that the death r(,Ii(in W;IS ..p,,,,,,,,, Se,ed Oklahoma, boasted of the ales
list will exceed two hundred. One
hundred and fiftv have been landed, i
, without warning, and sank rapidly
1
it i
it
a
Jap Warships to Suez.
Tokio, Jan. 3. Newspapers
. he was going to make for the year and
'lie was challenged to turn in an order
by the new year. He returned to his
nil- home here and Friday, the last day
WEATHER FORECAST
New Orleans, La., Jan. 3.
The weather forecast for Ok-
ti hihoma for tonight and Tues- tt .
tX day is fair. K
a a
tt Local Weather Data. tt
tt Highest temperature tt
tt yesterday CO tt
tt Lowest temperature tt
'tt last night. 3 tt
tt Highest tempemture tt
it same date a year ago 60 tt
St Lowest temperature tt
tt same date year ago--- 43 tt
tt tt
t nounce that a Japanese squadron of of December he spent at t he long dis-
worships has sailed for the Suez tame telephone. He called up nier
tt canal, presumably to protect Japanese chants Irom Muskogee to Altus and
it j shipping. This is reported to have, when the day was finished, be slipped
.been Hie decision following the sink- an order into an envelope for 4.10 doz
ing of two Japanese ships by sub-' rn pairs of overalls and the order was
marines in the Mediterranean. l-ent in time to reach the company In
The Japanese freighter Konoku wasist. Louis on New Year's day.
sunK In t lie Meuiteiranean by a sub- .
marine December 2!. according to a :
message to tne owners, rne snip;" .j nnniLu run
was chartered by a foreigner. The
crew of the vessel was saved.
W. H. Hudgen of Hewitt was
ItttnnttSnttnaDltltn Ardmore visitor today.
! Loughridge Family Reunion of Twen
ty-Six Persons Christmas.
; Mr. and Mrs. 1!. F. C. I.oiighrid.'
at Crand View farm, ten miles north
wot of Ardmore, enjoyed a family
r. u:.ion at their home Christmas. All
the Loughriclues who bale come to
; I be west were present. Among those
present were Mr. and Mrs. 11. F. c.
I.ouahridge, Mr. and Mrs. Harney 1
loughridge, Mr. and .Mrs. Walter The remains of Harry Hill who died
Loughridge, and Miss Mary Lough- -"I'DI.-ii ly at Little Hock. Arkansas,
riiK'e. All these are from Grand View Thursday night were brought to this
farm. The guests from Ardmore were , i,v yesterday and were interred at
Mr. and Mrs. IT. C. Loughridge and Hill cemetery at ten o'clock this
baby and Mr. and Mrs. (',. T. Glenn morning. Rev. K. R. Welsh of the
and two children. The guests from Uroadway Methodist church officiating.
New York, Jan. One man was
killed and leu injured, while eighteen
Funeral of Harry Hill
It. F. Scivally is one of the most
progressive farmers in the state. He Is
an advocate of the tractor in place of
horse power tor up to date larniing and
was himself the first man In Carter
county to use one in plowing. Of the
seven hundred acres that he iias in
iiiilivation each year, Saturday lie had
over live hundred acres plowed and
with much less expense than horses
or mules would have been to perform
the same w ork.
Aside from plowing he puts his trac
tors to other use
V. S. Gardner was here today from
Glenn.
I New Mexico were Mr. and Mrs. J. C. ' Deceased was taken suddenly 111 at i
THESE TWIN GIRLS , loughridge and two babies, Mr. and Kudora. Ark., and died before his moth-
Probation or.lcer Mrs. Curtis is! Mrs. v. jr. Loughridge and baby, and er. Mrs. M. A. Hill, his brother Bruce,
peeking a good home for twin girls, i T. W. Loughridge. In the entire party and his sister, Mr. J. A. Leatherwood
eleven years of age. She wants a j there were twenty-six persons, and could arrive. Here to attend the funer-
good home, where the children can "Daddy" Loughridge showed them so al are Mrs. M. A. Hill, Mrs. J. A. Leath-
be reared together. They are bright good a time that all would like to erwood and Charles Dibbrell of Ato-
and anxious to learn and will be a j have remained under the parental ka. Itruce hill and family and Harry
Joy In a childless home. roof. Iwillbom nfd fa-rPv of Mm
such as filling his
live silos, grinding feed, crushing rock
others are missing, as tie- re.-ilt of;"" o.i u .s ,uiu urnes aooui Ills larm,
an cxplo.-ion in the Mam. r A.iec, '" f;u'( --rythlng that an engine is
in the Brooklyn dry dock today. ; f"r " a farm- Mr- siv-'"-v ''
! some of the best roads about his
farms that can be found in the coun
ty; w henever there is nothing else to
do, he puts his hands to work with the
rock crusher and builds roads to fa
cilitate the work on his ranch. Mr.
Scivally Is a firm believer in blooded
cattle and his farm is covered with
fine registered stock. His farm just
north of Springer is a model for oth-
rs to pattern after, and he never fails
to employ all up to the minute devices
that tend to make' the work and life
on a farm wore attractive.
Pioneer Newspaper Man Dead.
Kansas City, Mo., Jan. 3. Robert
Thompson Van Horn, a pioneer Jour-
lleru
