THE" BARRE DAILY TIME
S
VOL. XIX-NO. 247.
BARRE, VERMONT, MONDAY, JANUARY 3, 1910.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
X
100 SAVED
AS GLENGYLE
WENT DOWN
Fresh Outrage in Torpedo
ing of British Steamer Has
Caused Situation in Wash
ington to Become Very
Serious and Wilson Cuts
Honeymoon Short .
mon, secretary of state for home affairs,
retires from the cabinet, "thus breaking
lus brilliant ministerial career for con
science sake."
RUSSIAN GAINS IN
GALICIA KEEP UP
NO AMERICANS
KNOWN ON GLENGYLE
- Consul at Alexandria Re
ports That the PersiaCar
ried OncMounted Gun, but
' v Does Not State Where the
Gun Was Mounted This
Mav Become a Factor of
Importance
. London, Jan. 3. The British steam
ship Glenevle has been sunk. There are
KJ survivors.
The Glengyle had on board about 120
persons, passengers and crew. All with
the exception of three Europeans and
seven Chinese were landed. So far as
known there were no Americans aboard,
The Glengyle was sunk in the Mediter
ranean, and this was her second voyage,
The Glengyle sailed from Shanghai for
London on Nov. 25 via the Suez canal
and the Mediterranean.
Washington, D. C, Jan. 3. President
Wilson will cut short his honeymoon and
return to the capital to-morrow to take
charge of the new crisis in foreign rela
tions caused by the submarine campaign
in the Mediterranean, with the loss of
American lives. After conferences over
the telephone between the president and
Scretary Tumulty and Scretary of State
' Lansing, this announcement was made.
It was btated that the destruction of
the British liner Persia with the loss of
American lives and of the British ship
Glengyle had put such a grave aspect on
the relations of the United States with
the Teutonic powers that President Wil
son considered it necessary to return.
While American officials are keeping
their minds open until they have all the
facts in the Persia case officially and
know whether Americans were endan
gered in the sinking of the Glengyle the
' gravity of the situation is not mini,
mized.
One new fact developed in the Persia
case to-day was that the American con
sul at Alexandria reported the ship car
ried one gun, but did not state where the
gun was mounted. This may become a
factor in the case.
Charge of Austrian Embassy Promises
Satisfaction.
During, the morning Baron Zwiedinek,
charge of the Austrian embassy, called
on Secretary Lansing and asked that
judgment be withheld until all the facts
were known and he expressed the belief
that the final explanation would be sat
isfactory. He also sought any available
information for the benefit of his gov
ernment and assured Secretary Lansing
that if it were proven that an Austrian
submarine sunk the Persia his govern
ment would give full reparation and satisfaction.
Germans Gain 800-Metre Front Trench in
the Hartmanns-Weilerkopf Front,
According to French Ad-mission.
London, Jan. 3. The fittest dispatches
from the southern extremity of the Rus
sian front indicate heavy fighting is con
tinuing with the Russian army of Gen
eral lvanotf gaining ground. One corre
spondent reports that those operations
began with an offensive movement on
the part of the Austrians, designed to
straighten tha line, and after repulsing
the attacks the Russians assumed the
initiative.
It is reported with increasing frequen
cy that tli central powers are planning
an attack An Saloniki, but they are said
to be experiencing difficulties with Bul
garia, which does not wish to participate
in such a campaign unless it promises
something more than the expulsion of
the allies from Saloniki.
Paris reports to-day mention ' heavy
cannonading along the Franco-Belgian
front and admit the withdrawal of
French troops along a 200-metre front in
the Hartsmanns-Weilerkopf sector. The
Berlin official statement says German
troops made an attack on a wide front
north of the road between La, Basses
and Bcthuee yesterday after conducting
mining operations on a large scale. The
occupants of one trench were buried by
an explosion or were shot down, and; in
some other positions the allied troops
fled.
FORD'S PARTY
WILL DISBAND
ON JANUARY 12
But First They Are to Be
Sent Across German Sol
in Sealed Cars Under the
Most Strict Conditions,
Arriving at Thi Hague by
Special Train
MAY NOT CARRY
EVEN OPERA GLASSES
MONTPELIER
Articles of Association Filed by Barnard
Library Club, Inc.
Articles of association were filed with
the secretary of state to-dav by the Bar
nard Library club, Inc.,, without capital
stock for the purpose of maintaining a
public library, reading and rest room at
Barnard. The subscribers are Sarah G.
Townshend, Adelbert Goss, Mr. and Mrs.
G. K. Wheelock, M. 11. Durkee, Mrs. EBa
M. Goss, K. 8. Chase, Lillie R. Chase,
Wilbur F. Dain, Ona A. Goss and Emilu
R, Goss, all of Barnard.
Mrs. Harriet Huntington returned to
day to Northampton, Mass., where she
resides with her son, having visited her
daughter for a few days in this city.
Banns of marriage were announced
yesterday at (St. Augustine's church of
Besiez Joyle and Miss Marion Gitchcll.
The 10 Id season of the Capital City
Bowling league will open Thursday
evening, it having been arranged at a
meeting held yesterday afternoon to
ave the Independents, last year a cham
pions, meet the Tcnnev company on the
State street alleySj The schedule com
plete has not yet been drawn up but
the work will be done this week and the
early start will irrsure a much earlier
nish than last year when the race was
ot decided until the last of May.
Jacob xett and Miss Minnie Rosen-
bamn returned Sunday evening to Bur
lington, having been the euests for a
few days of Mr. and Mrs. Harris Yett.
Mr. Ford Himself Landed in
New York Last Night,
Announcing His Belief in
the Eventual Success of
the Mission, but His Out
look on War Is Changed
Copenhagen, via London, Jan. 3. The
German government has granted the Ford
peaee expedition permission to travel to
The Hague through Germany by special
tram. The party will leave Copenhagen
Friday. ,
The conditions under which the Ameri
cans will travel are strict. Their train
will be scaled, everyone being locked
within, and no one will be permitted to
touch German soil during the journey
The memDers of the party will not be
permitted to carry written, printed or
typewritten papers of any description
nor postcards, opera glasses and gold
coins.
It is announced that the expedition
will disband at Ihe Hague on Jan. 1
most of the members returning fro
Rotterdam that day.
SELF-INFLICTED
WOUND FATAL
William P. Peltier, Burlington Youth of
18, Didn't Know, His Chum's Gun
Was Loaded and l Now Dead.
Burlington, Jan. 3. William Peter
Peltier, 18 years old, wliose home is at
Lakeside, shot himself with a 38-oalibre
revolver New Year's .night and died a
few minutes later, The young man did
not know ( the revolver which he was
handling was loaded. The accident hap
pened at the home of his most intimate
chum, Edward Rocheford, with whom he
had taken supper, '
The younjj man with his chum had
been following the New Y'ear's custom of
their nationality-by calling on the vari
ous famih's of their acquaintance during
the day and on invitation of Rocheford
Peltier went home with him to have sup
per. Foljowing the ; meal the two young
meii went into the living room and
started a phonograph. Peltier went into
his friend's bed room, which was next
to the living room, and seeing a re
volver recently purchased by Rocheford,
which was hanging in a belt upon the
GET NO WORD
OF KEARNS
WAS FORMER BARRE ALDERMAN,
Waltham's Retiring Mayor
Has Been Missing
Since Thursday
WAS ILL WITH GRIP
WHEN HE WENT AWAY
Kearns Was to Have Partici
pated Today in Succes
sor's Inauguration
wall, took it in his hands. Others
the family who were in the living room
heard the revolver click twice as the
trigger was pulled. Then followed a re
port and Peltier pell into the room a
the same time criing out, "I have shot
mvsen. r
He fell to the floor and made an at
tempt to sit up and speak before he fe
over dead. Peltier was, a Canadian
born in St. Francis, Que. He' had lived
in Burlington three years.
SHOT HOLE IN HAT
TOLD DEATH CAUSE
FORI) ARRIVES
WITH NEW IDEAS
Says European People Themselves Are
Responsible for the Continuation of
the War, Instead of Bankers and
Manufacturers of Munitions.
New York, Jan. 3. Henrv Ford, who
led the peace expedition which left here
Dec. 4 on the steamship Oscar II. for
Copenhagen, in the . hope of bringing
about a conference of neutral nations
that would end the, war, arrived here
last night on the steamship Bergensfjord,
Phillip Goodenough left this morning ! He confirmed cable reports that his re
ANOTHER JAPANESE
VESSEL IS SUNK
The Freighter Kankokn Was Sent to
Bottom of Mediterranean Sea by
German Submarine on Dec. 29.
' Tokio, Jan. 3. The owner of the Jap
anese freighter Kankoku has been ad
vised that the vessel was sunk by a
German submarine in the Mediterrean on
December "2ft. The. members of the crew
were landed at Cannes, France.
The reported decision of the Japanese
government to sena a squadron to Suez
follows the sinking of two steamships in
the .Mediterranean recently.
' JAPANESE WARSHIPS
TO CO TO SUEZ CANAL
Two Cruisers are to Be Sent There Pre
sumably to Protect Japanese Ship
ping, According to a Tokio
Report
Tokio, Jan. 3. Announcement is made
by the newspaper Jiji Shimpo that a
squadron of Japanese warships will Bail
for the Suei canal, presumably to pro
tect Japanese shipping. It is said that
the armored cruiser Kasuga Toktwa and
Chitose have been assigned for this
aervic.
RETIRES FROM CABINET.
Sir Jobs
of
A- Simon Was Secretary
Stated for Home Affairs.
London. Jan. 3. The Chronicle an
liouncv definitely that Sir John A. fci
for Windsor to resume work in the
Windsor machine shop, after a ten days'
visit in the city with his mother, Mrs.
ohn t. Goodenough. Mr. Goodenough
as been detained from work because of
a slight injury to one hand.
John W. Durkee left this morning for
Fair Haven, where he is station agent
for the Rutland Light and Power Co.,
having made a brief visit in the city
with relatives. Mrs. Durkee will make
a more extended visit before returning
to Fair Haven.
' Members of the Harvard Dental bas
ketball team left Saturday evening for
Boston, having passed a week of the
Christmas vacation in this section of
Vermont. Manager Clifton H. Smith,
who has been visiting at his home here,
leaves to-day to resume his studies
" Mrs. Anna Hudson and Miss Mary
Hudson returned last evening to Bur
lington, having visited and and Mrs.
Benjamin Tassie of Barre street for a
faw dnys.
Charles T. Adams of Baltimore, Md.,
was was called to Montpelier several
weeks ago by the death of his sister.
Mrs. Ralph B. Denny, left last evening
lor his home.
Elbert H. Colbnrn and Arthur Per
kins left to-day for lowell, Mass.,
where they are attending Lowell Com
mercial college, having passed the two
weeks' holiday vacstion with their par
ents in this city. They were accompa
nied by illiam Downs and Harold
Mack, who will resume their studies
at the Emerson school and the Massa
chusetts college of pharmacy in Boston,
respectively.
Miss Lina Jerd commenced a two
weeks' vacation from her ruties in the
Boston Fruit exchange Saturday and left
yesterday with Miss Agnes Guevin for
St. Albans and Burlington to visit rela
tives. John H. Senter returned Saturday
evening from Keen. X. II., where he
passed Christmas with his daughter.
Miss Minnie Yett left this morning
for Boston to resume her studies at the
Inland-Powers school of oratory, hav
ing passed two week with her parents,
Mr. and Mrs. Harris Yett.
Miss Elizabeth Finn returned last even
ing -to her home in St. Albans, having
passed the week end with friends in
the city.
Robert W. Simonda, chairman of tho
industrial accident board, went last
evening to Rutland, where a hearing
was scheduled to be held to-dav.
turn had been hastened bv illness, but
said it made a difference of only a few
days, as he intended when he left to
come back this month.
Mr. Ford declared his views regarding
the cause of the war have undergone a
marked change. When he left, he said
he was of the opinion that bankers, man
ufacturers of munitions and armanent
were responsible, but he returns with the
belief that it is the people themselves,
those now being slaughtered, who,are re
sponsible. The men doing the fighting
have been too content to let those who
rule them do their thinking, and they
nave not taken advantage of their divine
right to say for themselves what they
shall do and think, the pacifist asserted.
"Republics are no better than monarch
ieg in this respect," he said. "Even in
the L'nited States, we let those whom we
have elected to office be swerved from
thir dutv. We do not assert ourselves.
Personally, I have been a voter 31 years,
and in all that time I have voted only
six times, and then because my wife
made me."
Of the eventual success of the mission.
Mr. Ford declared he had no doubt. "The
movement is now organized and under
way. Iople are talking about it, and,
while some criticise, when people talk
they think, and when they think, they
thinK right.
Mc. Ford's future plans with, respect to
the peace expedition were uncertain, he
said. He left the partv in charge of
l.aston 1 lantin, he stated, in accordance
with his original plans, and, despite all
reports to the contrary, when the party
left the Oscar If. it was as harmonious
as could be desired.
TALK OF THE TOWN
An unwelcome Xew Year's dav visitor
at the home of ;. (Jokey was a leaden
bullet which came through the dining
room window on the south side of the
house, sped between the heads of family
members seated at the dinner table and
buried itself in the wall. The niile
made a clean hole in the window pane.
I'ohce headquarters was notified, as the
eokey family was not sure that the bom
bardment had ceased. Ofliivr John W.
Dineen went to the house and invetitrt-
cd. The police are of the opinion that
the leaden messenger was a sjwnt bullet,
presumably from the rule of a hunter
Aluni the wet lull ridce.
DIED IN THE 90TH YEAR.
Elam C Lewis of Rutland Was Born in
Williamstown.
Rutland, Jan. 3. Elam Clark Lewis.
for over half a century a leading busi
ness man of this city, died yesterday
afternoon at his home on Cottage street
after a short illness. He was in his
JOth year.
Mr. Lewis whs born iii Williamstown
March 15. 1S2U. H i early education
was received at Newbury seminary and
at Black Kiver academy. In 1848 he be
gan the study of medicine but two years
later abandoned his medical studies to
engage in the drug business, a field in
which he was verv successful.
He came to Rutland in 1K."3 and oper
ated a drug store here for 441 years from
that dstc
Mr. Lewis had been a director of the
Rutland County National bank for near
ly 40 years and vice president of the
same institution for many years. He
was a trustee of the Marble Savings
hank:.
Mr. Lew is was thrice married, his last
wife dyinu three years, ago. The fu
neral will be held Tuesday afternoon
st 2:3.
Verner Davis, 24, o Manchester, Was
Killed Early Sunday Morning and
It is Not Known Whether
Death Was Due to Sui
cide or Murder.
Manchester, Jan. 3. Verner Davis, aged
24, was found dead on the floor of
house where he had lived alone recently
about noon yesterday c ith a bullet
wound in his head, death evidently hav
ing occurred about two o'clock that
morning. There is no reason known to
suggest suicide and no definite indica
tion of foul play. The authorities are
investigating the case. He carried one
thousand dollars life insurance. He is
survived by his father, Robert Davis,
and a brother, Harry, with of this place
PRINTSHOP CHANGES HANDS.
E. W. Cumings Sella to James J. Lamb,
a Long-Time Employe.
The Cumings printery, conducted by
E. W. t urnings in the old city building
for the past score of years, has been
transferred to James, .J, Lamb, for many
years an employe at the printing othce.
i ha transfer took place to-day and here
after the business will be conducted un-
r the name of James J. Lamb ft Co,
E. W. Cumings purchased the business
from . A. Smith 20 years ago, when
the latter went to California. Heturning
to ermont a short time afterward, Mr
Smith rebought the business, only to sell
to Mr. Cumings again at the end of six
months.
The new owner received his earlier
training in the craft in the office of the
Argus ft Patriot, Montpelier. lor the
past 20 years he has been an important
factor in the development of Mr. Cu Ki
ngs business and old and new patrons
of the printery may be assured that the
standard 'of service established by Mr.
Cumings will not be allowed to deterio
rate under the new management. Mr.
Lamb contemplates several changes in
the mechanical department and a mere
letailed announcement will be made lat
er. At tins time Mr. Cumings, who re-
ires after a long career in the trade, de
sires to express his appreciation to the
public for its liberal patronage.
LANTERN PROBABTX EXPLODED
Waltham, Massy Jan. 3. No trace of
Mayor Thomas F. Kearns, who left hi
home while suffering from the grip last
Thursday, had been found to-day. May
or Kearns had planned to participate to
day in the inaugural exorcises of his
successor, Eben J. Williams.
The police began a sweeping search
for Kearns to-day and members of the
boy scouts assisted in the work of scour
mg the woods. ,
At 1 o'clock Thursday afternoon Mrs
Margaret Carter, a clerk in tha Waltham
health department, states that she saw
Mr. Kearns in the Harvard square sub
way, apparently bound home. He spoke
to her, but did not board the same car,
George O. Farnsworth, a Waltham shoe
dealer and a close friend of the missing
man, states that he saw Mr. Kearns on a
car bound from Harvard square to Wat
ertown, and that he looked extremely
ill. When ho spoke to Mr. Kearns the
latter did not recognize him and made
no response. Mr. Farnsworth lft the
car at Watertown to board another for
Waltham. He thinks Mr. Kearns also
left the Watertown car, but he did not
board the Waltham car. There the trail
nds.
When he left his home Mr. Kearns
wore a black overcoat, a .blue soft hat
and a mixed gray suit. The description
provided by his relatives states that he
is 44 years of age, 5,5 feet in height
and 165 pounds in weight. His hair
and moustache are of grayish tinge.
MONTPELIER'S DEATH RECORD.
Ninety-Three Adults Died During Year-
One Accidental Death.
Mr. Virtu's, cello plaver of tl "Birth
of a Nat ion" orchestra, and Kenneth
Gale assisted in a fine service nrcce.linw
the evening service st the "oni:rcsation-
1 church last evening. Th..e present were given by Mis Helen Skrrritt and
,.pr..l i wiMi 11, at the rm.ng men (Catherine La Pag. A daintv him-h
might be heard again in a imi!ar serv-leon was served and all went home hav
Ke- iiyj bi'-ut a delightful afternoon.
Causing Destruction of Roy Harris' Barn
in Middlesex Center,
An exploding lantern is believed to
have been the cause of a fire Saturday
evening between 5 and 6 o'clock which
destroyed the barn on the Roy Harris
farm m Middlesex Center, causing dam
age which is estimated at around $2,000,
Ihe loss is partly covered bv insurance.
The burning barn illumined the sky so
that Jt could plainly be seen from this
Ity, Montpelier, Naterburv and nearby
towns. The fire was discovered after
milking had been completed and Mr.
Harris and his assistants had returned
to the house. Mr. Harris Iwlieves that
the lantern fell from where he hung it
iter nnishing in the barn. The 10 head
of cattle and the horses were saved, but
wo pigs and some hens and valuable
haying machinery were destroyed, beinir
in the basement. Ihe snow, and hard
work by Mr. Harris and his neighbors,
saved the house adjacent to the barn,
ithough it was scorched in places.
TALK OF THE TOWN
William Given and William Cray, who
ave been spending the holidays at their
respective homes in the city, returned
last night to Montreal, where they are
employed.
Paul I). Barnard, who has been spend
ing his vacation in this city, returned
Saturday Bight to Kingston,. It. L, to re
sume his studies at the Rhode Island
state college.
Miss Cora Batehelder of Hill street
left lat night for Essex Junction, where
she will resume her duties as a school
teacher, after spending the holidays at
her home in tlus city.
Mrs. John Gray of North Seminary
street has received word that William
Cooper, now of Aberdeen. Scot., and for
merly of Harre. received n injury in
an Aberdeen stoneshe,! which necessi
tated the removal of the left eye. Whib?
residing in Barre Mr. Cooper made his
home at Mrs. (iravs ,nd will be re-
memliered by many Harre ropIe.
ilrs. Kose Granger of 15 Merchant
street enteitsined the niemlwrs of th
juxenile division of t'te I A, A.O J f.,' Fri
day afternoon at her borne. Piano solos
were riven by Miss Florence IjiPae
and Miss t.ladvs ,rf.ifn. Yoeal solos
Death claimed 83 adults in Montpelier
during the year 1915, of whom 45 were
male residents and 47 female residents
the other death being Carl Ned French
of Stowe, who was killed April 24 by an
automobile on the Barre road. His was
the only accidental death during the
year, whereas in the preceding 12 months
there were seven accidental deaths
The average age of those who passed
way was 04 vears and the oldest in
habitant to die was Mrs. Martha C.
Wright, aged 92, and the oldest male
resident was Ileman Straw, 86.
Nine veterans of the Civil war suc
cumbed during the year and seven gran
ite cutters passed awav. Of the male
adults, 29 were "married, seven were wid
owers and nine were single, while 25
married women died, 20 were widows and
only two were single.
A total of 74 veterans of the war have
passed awav in the last decade and there
are now but 46 living in Montpelier, the
oungest being 68. years old.
Two Deaths in Montpelier Early in 1916.
The new year started off with two
eaths of Montpelier residents on Sun
day. Mrs. Irvin L. Sparrow of 64 North
street, who had been ill a long time, died
last evening at the Mary Fletcher hos
pital in Burlington, where she nnder-
ent an operation a week ago, and the
body was brought to Montpelier on an
early train to-dav. Mrs. Sparrow was
born in Hardwick on April 5, 1865, her
maiden name beme Jennie L. Jacobs.
She was married on July 18, 1882, and
she and Mr. Sparrow had resided in
Montpelier all the intervening time ex
cept for a few years spent in Calais
She leaves, besides her husband, a son
Ivan Sparrow of Montpelier, and a sis
ter, Mrs. Harvey Burnap of, Hardwick.
The funeral will be held from her late
home Wednesday afternoon at 1 o'clock
and interment will be in Green Mount
cemetery.
The death of Joseph A. LaPolnte oe
eurred Sunday noon at the home of Mr.
and Mrs. J. J. Williams on Elm street,
Montpelier. with whom he had made his
home for the past three months. Death
was due to hardening of the arteries and
complications which accompany old age.
Jlr. iJH'ointe having been 711 years old,
He was born in (anada May 14. 1836,
but came to Waitsfield when a youth of
16 and learned the trade of wheelwright
in the shop of James Neweomb in that
town. He was married in East Mont
pelier to Sarah J. Willard Oct. 3, 1857,
and shortly after they came to Mont
peber to reside. For a score of years
Mr. LaPointe worked in Montpelier in
wheelwright shops and he also was em
ploved in Bennington fof a number of
years.
The deceased is survived by his wife
and two daughters, Mrs. J. J. Williams
and Mrs. Alfred Hanks, the latter of
Tersey City. N. .T who is passing the
winter in California; one brother, Mar
cus IiPointe of Leominster, Mass.. and
three sisters. Mrs. Joseph Boudlaise of
I Is Hard ale. Mass.. Mrs. Carpenter and
Mrs. Lucy Gallant of Turtle Ijike. Wis.
There are also six grandchildren and
three great-gra.idchildren.
The funeral will be private and will
be held at 2 o'clock Tuesday afternoon
from the bouse with Rev. William Shaw,
psstor of Trinity church, 'officiating.
Burial w ill be in Green Mount cemeterv.
Patrick E. McNulty, Granite Manufac
turer, Died at Redlands, Cal.
A telegram received here early Sunday
announced the death in KeulanUs, ( a I., o
Patrick E. McNulty, a former aldernia
ot iiarre, a tustice of the city, and
member of the granite manufacturing
firm of Lechur & McNulty. Mr. Me
Nulty's demise followed a long' illness
He went to California for his health i
November, 1914. Last May he was joined
bv -Mrs. McNulty and their children an
when news of his precarious condition
reached Barre early last week, his broth
er, J. .dward McNulty, left for tied
hinds Thursday night. The latter was
in Arizona when information of his
brother's death reached him.
Plans for the funeral are necessarily
incomplete, although the remains will be
brought to Barre for interment in the
Catholic cemetery on Beckley street. Mr,
MeNultv was born; in Kawdon, r. (J
Nov. 7, 1865. He came to Barre in March
1891, and was employed as, a granite cut
ter for a time in the plant of Mcleher &
Hadley. In 1899 he and WJ. Carroll
engaged in business under the firm namo
of Carroll 4 McNulty, with shed quar
ters on West street, until 1906, when
they moved to Granite street. Later Mr,
McNulty became associated in the man
ufacturing business with Charles J. Le
clair, who had come to Barre from But
land in 1891.
Mr. McNulty served as an alderman
and member of the city council in 1007
1908 and 1909, and was for several years
a justice of the peace. Members of the
board of civil authority and all others
whose business called them to the ses
sions of the board will recall that Mr.
McNulty was invariably selected to ad
minister the oath to candidates for the
franchise privilege in Barre. He was a
member of Barre council, No. 401,
Knights of Columbus, St. John court,
Catholic Order of Foresters, and division
No., 1, A. O. H. St. Monica's church
numbered him as one of its faithful
members and in many other circles ho
was held in high esteem by his assoer
ates. . '
Mr. McNulty is survived bv his wife.
three children; his brother, J. E. Mc
Nulty, and a brother living in Canada,
BURTON M. CUTIS.
Barre Man Had Been HI a Long Time-
Funeral to Be Held Tuesday.
Burton M. Cutts passed away at his
ome, 44 Academy street, Saturday night
t0:35 o'clock. Mr. Cutts had been ill
for the past two years. Having been
icnehtted by the climate of Saranac
Lake, N. Y., a year before, he returned
to the region last winter. His condition
seemed to improve until last summer,
when his health began to decline. He
is survived by his wife; his father, Allen
E. Cutts of Barre; and two sisters, Mrs.
John Johnson and Mrs. Ora Gregware,
both of Barre.
Mr. Cutts was born in Barre May 20,
1870. As a young man he learned the
graniteeu tier's trade and was employed
by different manufacturing firms about
town until ill health compelled him to
abandon his trade. His marriage to Miss
Winifred Kczer took place in Barre
April 30, 1897. The deceased was a
member of the Barre lodge, N. E. O. P.,
trustee of the order at the time of
is death, and he had filled all the of
fices in the local lodgo at one time or
nother. He was an ndherent of the
Methodist church. His death at the. age
f 45 years has brought sorrow to a
ide circle of acquaintances.
Funeral services will be held at the
house Tuesday afternoon at 2 o'clock,
Rev. E. F. Newell, pastor of the Hed
mg Methodist church, officiating. In'
terment will be made in the family lot
in 1.1m wood cemetery.
FINANCES IN
GOOD SHAPE
Three Barre Religious Soci
eties get Satisfactory Re
ports at Annual Meetings
PARISH GATHERINGS
MOST HELPFUL
Baptist, Congregational and
Universalist Societies
Elect Officers
.1
A rolleall with let
A0
'licitation
from absent meml. , Vt
DEATH OF OLD RESIDENT.
Mrs. Sarah W. Lake, Who Passed Away
Saturday, Was Aged 82.
Funeral services for one of Barre's
iler residents, Mrs. Sarah W. Lake,
ho passed away at the home of John
Collins, 5 Hill street, at the age of 82
ears, Saturday afternoon at 12:30
clock, were held at the house this aft
ernoon at 2 o'clock. Rer. George H.
Holt, pastor of the First Baptist church,
was the officiating clergyman. To-night
at 9:30 o'clock the body will be, taken
over the M. ft W. R. railroad to Quincy,
Mass., for interment beside the body of
the deceased husband, Joseph Lake, who
died 44 years ago. The remains will be
accompanied by Mrs. Charles Smith of
the Slontpelier road, a niece of Mrs.
Lake.
Mrs. Lake's death followed a long pe
riod of failing health. She was born
in Groton, Feb. 18, 1833, her maiden
name being Miss Sarah Wasson. Her;
marriage to Joseph Lake took place in
South Ryegate Jan. 21, 1800. Mr. Lake
was a granite cutter by trade and most
of his life was spent in Quincy. Ins
death occurred Oct. 1, 1871, and four
teen years later Mrs. Ijike came to
Barre to reside. She had lived in the
home of Mr. Collins for the past 30
years. Ihe only near relatives surviv
ing are: Mrs. diaries Smith, a niece,
and Harley Nelson of Grand Rapids,
Mich., a nephew. Mrs. Lake was a mem
ber of the Baptist church.
annual elec
tion of officers and a- parish supper were
among the interesting features of the
yearly meeting of the First Baptist
church on the afternoon and evening of
New l'ear'. For the first time in four
years, according to the pastor, Rev. O. H.
Holt, who is to retire from the local pas
torate this month, the church enters upon
a new 12-month period entirely fre from
debt. A deficit noted in nn examination
of the financial committee's report wa
quickly cancelled by subscription a( the
business meeting.
Of more than passing importance was
the report of the nominating board,
which recommended an official slate to
be adopted for 1916. Since the officers
nd various committees are to work with
a new pastor, the nominating board used
plenty of discretion In making its rec
ommendations. Below is given a list of
the officers.
Clerk, Mrs. Luna Rogers; assistant
clerk, Miss Grace Ferry; treasurer, E. .7. .
Batehelder; collector, W, J. Shields; ad-
isory board, the pastor and his wife,
the deacons and their wives, the Sundity
school superintendent, the clerk and Mrs.
Annie Inglis; financial committee, AV'il
liam McDonald, Quincy H. Perry, Aulden
Grearson, A. S. Jones, James Grearson,
E. J. Batehelder and W. J. Shields; chair
man of the visiting committee, Mrs. Ab-
bie Corliss; chairman of the baptism
committee, Deacon F. A. Hutchinson;
choir director and organist, Mrs, E. J.
Batehelder; assistant, MiBS Ethel Inglis;
chairman of the board of ushers, Arthur
Shannon.
Sunday school superintendent, Lewis
, Jones; first assistant, Clvde W.
Perry; second assistant, president of the
Baraca class; secretary. W. F. Milne;
treasurer, Miss Louise Tartridge; libra
rian, Aulden Grearson; assistant, Sundny
school secretary; superintendent of the
primary department, Mrs. V. A. Hutch
inson; superintendent of the home de
partment. Mrs. Annie Inglis; superin
tendent of the cradle roll, Mrs. Nason;
uditors, Mrs. Peter Park, jr., W. A.
Perry and Miss Dorothy Inglis.
Rev. Mr. Holt presided and toward tha
close of the business session he took oc
casion to review the work. of the past
four years, referred feelingly to the re
lations that have existed between the pas
tor and his people, and bespoke for his
successor a hearty welcome and a sincere
manifestation of the co-operative spirit.
Prayer by Mr. McDonald was followed
by adjournment until next Thursday
evening.
In the upper room of the church the
ladies served supper at 6 o'clock. Many
members of the church who were unable
to be present for the business of the
afternoon made it a point to be in the
get-together parish party at supper-time.
A gennine spirit of goodfellowship pre
vailed and there was an abundance of
the things that sustained the inner man.
After supper the pastor presided at in
formal exercises and the several officers
elected in the afternoon were introduced
to the newer members' of the congrega
tion. In a number of instances there
were brief responses. Rev. James Ram
age of the East Barre Congregational
church was one of the speakers and sev- -
eral musical numbers were contributed.
BURIAL AT ELMW00D.
JUSTICE LAMAR DEAD.
Had Been on United States Supreme
Court Five Years.
Washington. D. C. Jan. 3. Joseph
Rmker Lamar, associate jiMw-e of the
supreme court of the I nited Mates,
died at hi home l,ere lat night after an
illne-s of -evrral niiuiths. He was .V
ars dd and had been on the supreme
bench for five jears.
Body of Isaac DeCamp Rice Was Brought
from Springfield.
The funeral of Isaac DeCamp Rice, a
native ot narre ana lor years a promi
nent carpenter in this city, whose death
occurred at the home of his daughter.
Mrs. C. C. Leonard, in Springfield Thurs-
lay at the age of 86 years, was held
at the home of his daughter, Mrs. George
II. Bishop, 67 Washington street. Sun-
lay afternoon at 2 o'clock, the remain
laving been brought here from Spring
field Friday afternoon. Rev. J. W. Har
nett, pastor of the Barre Congrepational j
hurch, was the officiating clergyman and
he bearers were: t. G. leonarj of
Springfield, a son-in-law. W. A. Rice of
Altoona. Pa, Mr. Rice's son, and Wil
liam A. Bishop and t'lsrem-e R. Bishop,
grandsons of the deceased. There were
everal fine floral tributes. Interment
was made in F.lmwood mnctery in the
Ric family lot. where lies buried Mr.
Rice, who died in 1804, and I'li T. Kiee.
a broth. r of the deceased, a well known
Harre tailor.
Among those who came from a dis-
tanee to attend the ser were: Mr.
and Mrs. t". G. Itnrd f Srrinrf.el.l.
Mrs. C. V. Riehrd-on of Shdhurne, anil
Wilbur A. IUi-e of Altoona, Pa.
The annual meeting of the Barre Con
gregational church was held Saturday
with A good attendance. The gathering
heard reports from all Officers and de
partments, elected officers for the coming
vear and partook of dinner served ny
the ladies of the parish in the church
dining room. The reports of the officers
how the business alfairs of tlie church
to be in good shape, the income for the
vear meeting all expenses incurred. The
church membership showed a net increase
of 18 for the year, with a total member
ship of 5lil.
Officers for the v4at were elected as
follows: Moderator, G. Herbert Paps;
clerk, H. G. Woodruff; member of the
business committee for three years, Guy
W. Varnum; deacon for six years, J. C.
Linekin; treasurer, F. H. Rogers: audi
tors, F. E. IAngley and H. A. Phelps;
ushers, George M. Gates, James C. Rob
ertson, Charles Pamperl. Arthur W. Mc
Neil, Arthur Baxter, Arthur IV Knight,
W. G. Cummings, Allwrt Wheeler; com
mittee to sell church property, F. C.
Fisher, G. H. Papo and F. E. Langley.
Saturday was a day of reunion for the'
I'niversalist church and its allied so
cieties. In the afternoon the women
mission circle held ifs regular monthly'
meeting and at 6 o'clock there was a
rmrisli simper, to be followed by th 1
church and parish meetings. More than
100 people sat down to an excellent sup
per prepared by the women of the church
and it was well toward 8 o'clock before
the first business session was called to
order. Reports were read by the secre
tary at the church meeting, by the col
lector, the treasurer, and the trnsee.
The pator. Rev. .1. B. Reardnn. gave an
informal review of the year's achieve
ments anil outlined some of the ohjm-t
which the rhiirch members will strive In
attain in Ifltl. AH in all. the reports
were siirns'ly eneourazing and the out
look for a year of prors i very prom
isins. The finances of the churrh were il
a sound condition. indicated by the
treasurer's and collector's reports, th
figure allowing the ah- n.e of a deficit.
Tmtee elected at the church ncssinn
are: Dr. T. M. I.nie. A. T!. Mne. Frank
f Continued on fourth PA4.
