Da
The Sunday Dee ia the only
THE WEATRO.
Generally Fair
Omaha newspaper that
i fives its readers
jottfes of colored
four big
comics.
VOL. XLV NO. 170.
OMAHA, MONDAY MORNING, JANUARY
Om Train, at Hotst
Mwa stands, cto., 5a.
SINGLE COPY TWO CENTS.
Oma
Bee.
HA
ELY
EDGAR HOWARD IS
BADLY INJURED AS
CAR STRIKES HIM
Editor of Columbus Telegram Se
?rely Hurt When Automobile
Knocks Him Down New
Year's Night.
IS THROWN AGAINST THE CURB
SERBIAN KINO IN DRAMATIC FLIGHT FROM HIS COUNTRY This picture shows
King Peter of Serbia, being assisted from his automobile to the back of his horse, during
his flight across Serbia and Albania, before taking ship for Italy. The picture was sent
from Scutari to Durazzo by aeroplane by our correspondent, who was a member of the king's
Occupants of Machine Escape With
out Being Recognized and
Sheriff After Them.
DRIVING ON THE WRONG SIDE
1
rOI.llMKI'S h.. .Inn. 2. fSnn-
lal Telegram.) Edgar Howard,
editor of the Columbus Telegram
and one of the most, prominent dem
ocrats of the slate, was severely
hurt here New Year's night when he
was struck and knocked down by an
automobile.
Howard had left his reRidence
about 7 o'clock and was walking
downtown. Sleet followed by a freeze
had made the sidewalks slippery and I
Mr. Howard was making the journey
on the left hand eide of the street to
pet firmer foothold.
Thrown Aaralnat Curb.
The automobile, which witnesses de
clared contained three men and was hit
ting up a high rate of rpeed on the wrong
fide of the street, struck the editor from
the rear and threw him against the curb.
He suffered severe Benin wounds and
wrenched his hack considerably. He was
plrked up In a semi-conscious condition
and taken to his home where he was de
1 Irons most of Saturday night.
Simday he seemed to be Improving and
the attending physicians announced that
he would recover unless Interna! Injuries
resulted. It is said there is a chance of
the latter proving true. Even though no
Internal injuries develop Mr. Howard will
confined to his home for a week at
least.
Sheriff SeeVa Car.
The automobile which struck Mr. How
ard is thought to have been one from a
nearby city. The occupants were not
recognised by witnesses nor was the
number secured, but the sheriff is at-
I C Tilt A ' I
IW MtVVl I
1
P - i
I 5 , 4 i. jS. j
! J T uV Mir
1 i ' "'WISTWililinilllili-OTFinllllsilltiil ' . " 1 1 I i 7
& . - - - - ,...,.. jA : $ I
til Sr. ....... s. . 1 S I t'
:1 H Vv -Si,-
HENRY FORD HOME
WITH YIEW PEOPLE
TO BLAMEOR WAR
Pacificist Arriving at New York
Asserts Masses of Europe Now
Being Slaughtered Re
sponsible. VOYAGE CHANGES HIS OPINION
Manufacturer Has No Doubt of
Eventual Success of His
Peace Expedition.
BAKER CANDIDATE
FOR CONGRESSMAN
Prominent Omaha Attorney Decides
to Make Race for Repub
lican Nomination.
GIVES OUT HIS PLATFORM
S . 11
irrt-'liilln T?T .
I Judge Hen 8. Ilaker of Omaha
yesterday announced his determin
ation to stand for the republlcnn
nomination for congressman from
this district.
The Judge is one of the promi
, nent men of Omatw. w ho has risen
i from the ranks of hardworking boys.
THINKING TO FOLLOW TALKING ;. At the age of H years he started
out for himself. He worked on
NHW YORK, Jan. 2. Henry Ford,! farms over In Iowa, and did all
who led the peace expedition which I kinds of labor until one day he
left here December 4 on the steam-! graduated from the law school of
PERSIA REPORTED
SUNK UNWARNED;
AMERICAN LOST
Unofficial Dispatches from Cairo
Say British Liner Torpedoed
in Mediterranean With
out Notice.
GOES DOWN IN FIVE MINUTES
ship, Oscar II, for Copenhagen, in
the hope of brJjsging about a confer
ence of neutral nations hta would end
the war, arrived here today on the
steamer. Bergensfjord. He confirmed
cable reports that his return had been
United States Consul McNeely Is
Asserted to Have
Perished.
ABOUT 150 SURVIVORS LAND
LONDON, Jan. 2. Unofficial dis-
halplioa f ttm PnrU aaA iKni 4 Vi a
the Iowa State university. I " ,"r " . ' .
During all his varied legal and -""""i' -.-.
political activities, 'as a result of
which for many years he has been
in the searching glare directed at
a man in public l fc, the judge
hastened by illness, but said it made ' has continued to make friends in all
a difference of only a few days, as ' parties and factious by 1,1s upright
he intended when he left to come ness, kindliness and ability. More
back this month. j than one young lawyer attributes
Mr. Ford declared his views regarding J successes w on in various cases to
GOVERNOR RACE
ON 1NEARNEST
Interesting and Enlivening Devel
opments Looked for Before
Week is Over.
BURKETT MAY BE CANDIDATE
(From a Staff Corespondent.)
UNCOL.N, Jan. 2. (Special.) Every
body Jspredicting that before the first
wulr nf Ha naw vAnp la AVr that there
tempting to locate the car by Its de-,wm m aeUvlty , the poljtlcM world
siTipt.on. IM M Nchpaska S concerned which
Witnesses declare that after hitting , , lnter6stlng and eni,Venlng.
Mr Howard, the man at the wheel threw Tne lbUty that former Senator
on the Juice and made a speedy escape ! Burkett may enter the race for
Justice Lamar Is
Dead at Capital
WASHINGTON, Jan. 2. Joseph Rucker
Lamar, associate Justice of the supreme
court of the United States, died at his
home here tonight after an lllneB of
several months. He was 58 years old and
had been on the supreme bench five
years.
up the otreet to the Lincoln highway and
out of the city.
Reception Held by
Wilson and Bride
the republican nomination for the United
States senate with a plea that he be al
lowed again to contest with Senator Gil
bert M. Hitchcock, who beat him six
years ago, has set the tongues to wag
ging. It would complicate matters at least
to the extent of producing a three-cor
nered fight and inject a little uncertainty
into the primary fight. -
Fears of Too Many Cooks.
Friends of candidates for the republican
HOT SPRINGS. Vs., Jan. 2. President
"Wilson held his first official New Tear's
reception this evening In the lobby of
the hotel here where he and Mrs. Wilson
are spending their honeymoon. He shook nomination who are on the dry side are
hand with about 500 persons and later beoomlng fearful that something is going
was host at a public tea. . jto happen If the four dry candidates, Pol-
The lin of cnllers. mostly country ' lard, McKelvle, Sutton and Madgett, per
people from a radius of thirty miles about slst in all staying in to the end. 'Some of
Hot Springs, was received by the presi- them have gone so far as to advocate the
lent and Mrs. Wilson and as they stood getting together of the four men and
before a fireplace near the hotel entrance drawing. straws to see which one shall
Mr. Wilson greeted each cordially, and , run.
smilingly Introduced his bride who was j It Is suggested that a large per cent of
gowned in blue Georgette crepe with blue the republican vote is dry and with Just
t
t
L
lace sleeves and ahlgh collar. At the
ta Mrs. Wilson oftlclated at a small
table set apart for her and her husband.
Mr. and Mrs. Wilson took a long motor
ride and a three-mile walk today after
rainstorm had driven them from the
golf links. They motored to Warm
.Springs, Vs.., and returned by a circuitous
route.
one of the four in the race it would be
easy to win, but with the vote divided It
simply means defeat for the four and the
nomination of a wet candidate.
Of course that Is looking at it from the
Bryan standpoint that a man's qualifica
tions for the office of governor depends
wholly upon how he stands upon the pro
hibition question. Some people are lnslst
tlng that business ability in an executive
Is a mora Important qualification than
his attitude toward prohibition.
Who Will Withdraw f
Howeyer, the proposition arises as to
which three of the four dry candidates
will consent to eliminate themselves. All
(From a Btaff Correspondent.) !IU' em aeciare mai wey are i n vu
i.iwrni.M i.n Bn.MnTh. stay ana wai mey jonu can iw ev-irU
tal ,ty of Nebraska is starting out the : nominated. That is the question which
new year by feeling pretty chesty over bothering friends of the , plan just now
it. 1915 record. Bank clearings increased until that is solved It . U .likely that
from $109,207,345 In 1914, to 1119.043.782. in tho race will continue with Pollard Mc
IM6. Legits in bank, increased from ' M Sutton and Madctt 8tHrlV'nS
r . it.. anI flfxWtrA anH nnHHlhlV
Lincoln Is Chesty
Over Bank Record
$12,242,884. Poet office re-
HO.9ri8.4a7 to
CtMiJis irom wi.i w -tw.oo. nmm , ,
I in a nnnnoltlnn
.ales from 1383,575 to J3S4.851. Postal j
. .. ... I There has a
money order from Rt,M3 to j,sj,ij,
nd parcel post packages Increased from
H6.364 to
the dry vote and George and possibly
'Clarence Miles of Hastings dividing up
There has as yet no solution come to
the very undesirable condition which con
frA.t. th. if.nH.ri nf the democratic
'iuiv Whn K tri mnn or the
Building permit, ran from $1,006,187 In KUbernatorlai nomination is the problem
1914 to $1,700,000 In 1915. and city, publ c whJcn , kecplng roany of them awake
and suburban buildings from $1,400,000 to,n,8nU M ,g Bal(J noever that there is
FAMINE IN POTASH
AFFECTSJARMERS
Secretary Houston Paints Gloomy
Picture of Outlook for
Fertilizers.
v$2.484,500.
General Dodge Is
.Constantly Sinking;,"'
General Grenville M. Dodge of Council
Bluffs, la constantly sinking. Word from
his bednlde at pres. time was that death
may come at any moment.
A decided change for the worse in his
condition occurred Saturday night.
hope that a solution will be found at the
state democratic editorial banquet which
will be held at the city auditorium in
Lincoln on Thursday evening, the 11th.
when everybody who has a bug crawling
his head gear will be permitted to bring
him out and put him on exhibition. That
there will be a fine assortment of bugs is
assured and that some of them may ex
hibit some of the elements needed for
the nomination is doubtless a fact, but
whether they will be able to entirely
meet the very peculiar situation remains
to ba seen.
The Weather
Temperatar
at Omaha
- rtours.
I m r TTTTV I 6 a.m.
J 10a.m...
yi7JW 11a.m...
c i p. m...
4 p.m...
' ' 1p.m...
Tcsterday.
De
fi
......rt
..X..25
27
2
.13
3a
THOMPSON SEES HOPE
FOR DRYS IN NEBRASKA
"BILLY" SUNDAY
ENTERSTRENTON
Thousands Oreet Evangelist as He
Arrives for Eeligious Cam
paign in City. -
"NO PIKER TOWN," HE SAYS
TRENTON, N. J.. Jan. 2. (Spe
cial Telegram.) "Billy" Sunday
told 6,000 persons of all ages, sexes
and creeds from thi city and a dosea
surrounding towns that the reception
given him here after he had alighted
from the Chicago limited this after
noon was the best in twenty years
"I always thought Trenton was con
servative," he yelled as he stood In
the bay window of the Dolton man
slon at Clfhton avenue and State
street, "but I find It isn't. This is
no piker town."
"Ma" Sunday, with her face wreathed
in smiles, clasped the evangelist about the
neck as he talked for ten seconds to the
cheering multitude. Mr. Sunday sat down
to a beefsteak dinner at 6 p. m. It was
prepared by Mrs. Emma Mae Foutts, the
official housekeeper. He also ate heartily
of baked beans and raw apples of which
ho is very fond.
Trip Is Fine.
"The trip wa fine," he said between
chaws on the beef.
"Never felt better In sll my life," he
cried out with vigor.
"I don't want to talk too nsich now,"
he remarked. "I have seven weeks of
that stuff ahead of me."
The Sunday party reached the Clinton
street station with the platform Jammed
with a frensied mass of people. Wearing
a steel gray hat and his usual fur collared
black overcoat, the evangelist appeared
husky, but thinner than when he spoke
before the legislature here early last year.
Ex-Asseir.blyman John E. GUI, Dr, Henry
Collin Minton, chairman of the Sunday
committee, and Samuel Haverstick, pres
ident of the Chamber of Commerce, were
with him along with "Ma."
Winkers' band accompanied a massed
choir of 2,M0 voices as Sunday was step
ping into the automobile that was used
by President Wilson when Inaugurated,
Onward Christian Soldiers," be'.ng sung
In mighty tones. Arriving at the house
two blocks away, Sunday nimbly stepped
from the tar, leaped up the steps, and
along with his wife hurried to the second
floor where he talked to the crowd.
'Brighten Up the Corner." sung by
everybody, closed the most unique re
ligious spectacle in the history of the
c ty. One vt the side features of Sunday's
arrival was the selling of thousands of
bags of "Billy" Sunday peanuts by
"Spader," a colored vendor, known to
thousands of Princeton graduates and
others. "Billy" rests while in seclusion
tonight "to be ready to give the devil a
battle" tomorrow.
NITRATES ARE MUCH HIGHER
WASHINGTON, Jan. 2. A gloomy
view of prospects for fertilising next
year's crops is presented in a statement
issued today by Secretary Houston of
the Department of Agriculture.
Relief measures undertaken by the de
partment since the European war dis
rupted the American phosphate Industry
and cut off potash imports from Ger
many will help, the statement says, but
they offer slim possibilities that the
American farmer will get a small part
of the fertilising materials necessary for
his needs. Nitrogenous fertilisers alone
will be available in the quantities needed.
The secretary 'akes up first the potash
supply . long . sine xhusted In the
United" State, "by the -German embargo
on shipments. Investigation, says his
statement, has shown four sources of
supply in this country, but none im
mediately available. These are the kelp
of the Pacific coast, alunlte deposits in
Utah, feldspathio rocks in the east and
the mud of Searles lake, California.
Many Difficulties in Way.
Manufacture from feldspar has been
found to be feasible, but the cost is high.
Development of Searles lake deposits
presents technical difficulties, and title
to the property is involved. Manufac
turers are experimenting now, the state
ment says, with alunlte. Kelp is offered
as the best material. Three large con
cerns have begun manufacture from kelp
and government experts will be sent to
the Pacific coast to aid in the experi
mental work.
Production will be slow for a long
time, the secretary points out, and de
mand for potash In other industries Is so
great that none manufactured In the
United States will be available for agri
cultural purposes. His statement says:
"The prices offered under existing
conditions by the manufacturers of ar
ticles will cause practically the entire
output of these concerns to be diverted
from the fertilizer industry. It would
require ninety or more plants, costing
approximately $00,000 and having an op
erating capital of $25,000 each, to pro
duce the quautlty needed for agriculture.
This would involve the assumption that
commercial phases of the problem were harmonious as could be desired
assistance freely given by .ludpe
Baker.
Those persons who believe it
e to Omaha
represented In
congress by a strong man, in con
trast to the democratic record of
this same office are among the
first who are convinced of the
merit of Judge Baker's candidacy,
and will be the nucleus of his fol
lowing.
"Yes, I have fully made up my mind
to bo a candidate for the republican
nomination for congress of this district
at the next primaries." said the Judge.
"Have you formulated or have you any
particular platform on which you are to
go before the people?" he was asked
the cause of the war have undergone a
marked change. When he left, he said,
he was of the opinion ttiat bankers, man
ufacturers of munitions and armament
were responsible, but he returns with the j would be an advanta
belief that it Is the people themselves, and Nebraska to be r
those now being slaughtered, who are
responsible.
Content o Re naled.
The men doing the fighting have been
too content to let those who rule them
do their thinking, and they have not
taken advantage of their divine right to
say for themselves what they shall do
and think, tho pacificist aserted.
"Republics are no better than mon
archies In this respect," he said. "Rven
in the United States wo lot those whom
we have elected to offlco be swerved
from their duty. We do not assert our
selves. Personally, I have been a voter
thirty-one years, and In all that time I
have voted only six tliW. and then be
cause my wife made me."
Of the eventual success of the peace
mission, Mr. Ford declared he had no
doubt. "The movement Is now organ
ised and under way," he said. "People
have been talking about It, and while
some criticise, when people talk they
think, and when they think they think
right."
May Charter Bnl.
COPENHAGEN. Jan. S.-Vla London)
After deciding to proceed to The Hague
by sea, the manager of the Ford peace
Party . todax. , made . effort to avoid tha
necessity of. sailing through ths North
sea with Its danger from mines. They
called on the German minister and urged
him to obtain permission for ths party
to go to The Hague through Germany,
but no assurances were received from
him.
The manager of the party have decided
to charter a small vessel, at an expense
of $00,0110 to go by sea to The Hague
If consent to pass through Germany can
not be obtained. In this event, only the
members of the party whose presence is
regarded as necessary will be taken on.
The. others Including th ecollege students
will be sent back to the United States
from Copenhagen.
Llndhaxm Returns.
IjONDON, Jan. 2. A Reuter's dispatch
from Copenhagen says that Mayor I.lnd-
hagan of Stockholm, who arrived at
Copenhagen last week to Join the peace
expedition, returned to Stockholm today.
Kight Norwegian delegates have Joined
the party.
The message says the members of the
rarty were received by the American
minister Dr. Maurice Egan.
Plana Uncertain.
Mr. Ford's future plans with respect
to the peace expedition were unrertiln,
he said. While ha had several Ideas In
mind, he deemed It too early to speak
of them. He left the party In charge
of Gaston Plantlff, he stated In accord
ance with his original plans, and de-
Mediterranean on Thursday, was tor-
pedoed wlthou twarning and sank
in five minutes.
Between 150 and 160 survivors
have been landed at Alexandria,
Kgypt.
Robert N. McNeeley, American
consul at Aden, Arabia, is believed
lo have been drowned.
Iluvtnn Man ftaved.
fleutfrs Cairo correspondent makes the
unreserved statement that Mr. McMc
Neeley lost his life. Charles II. Grant of
Hoston was saved.
Details of tho sinking of the Persia
came in slowly today, but such Informa
tion as was received made it appear
Unit the number of persons who escaped
In tho four boats which were put off was
larger than was hoped when the first
news was received yesterday. Ths Penin
sular & Oriental company, which owned
tho Persia, announced this morning that
1S8 survivors had arrived at Alexandria.
A Lloyd's dispatch gives the number as
1M, msde up of fifty-nine passengers of
whom seventeen are women and ninety
four members of the crew Including 159
Isaars.
Ktrnrk Amidships.
The survivors Include ten military of
ficers and eight persons who are not
Of course, I am a republican, and I , Ui Uum subjects.
believe in the principles of the party. I j "The ship was struck amhrJMps on
am In favor of protective tariff duties the port side at 1:10 p. in.," says Reuter's
equal to the dlference of the cost of correspondent at 'Cairo. "She had dlsap
labor In the production at home and peared completely by 1:15 p. m."
abroad, with a reasonable profit to the i "Survivors say it was little short of
home Industry and no more, and where a miracle that any one was' saved.
the tariff Inures to the benefit of the ' There was no panic. Four boats were
launched with the utmost promptitude.
"The captain was drowned. When last
seen he was swimming after the liner
had plunged beneath ths surface."
Both the Peninsular and Ori'ntal com
pany and Reuter'. Cairo corre.pondent
say that Mr. Grant has been landed at
Alexandria, The steamship company
this - afternoon - had received- no new.
Oi Mr. McNeely's fate.
Edward Rose of Denver, left the Per
I sla at Gibraltar as was reported yes
terday.
manufacturer instead of the wage earner
the tariff should be taken off. A pro
tective tariff should he reduced to the
minimum, keeping In mind a protection
of our wage earners and producers.
"I am also In favor of a rigid enforce
ment of the Sherman anti-trust law.
Guilt is personal. .. . . j ,
"I am In favor of government corpora
tion control and regulation of all Inter
state commerce business with the fol
lowing provisions and prohibitions: (a)
Prohibiting the Issuance of watered
stock, (b) Property vatne of such cor
porations to be their actual value; fran
chise to be no part of such value, (c)
Provisions for the publicity of all re
ceipts and disbursements of such cor
porations, (d) Provisions for regulating
railroad rates and prohibiting rebates
and discrimination In shipping.
"I am in favor of government conserva
tion of all Its natural reaourcea, that they
may inure to tho benefit of al Ithe peo
pla. "I am in favor of the right to petition
congress without restriction to any class,
; regardless of their occupation and em,-
ploymerit.
"I am In favor of a separate bureau for
the welfare of the children of the nation.
"I believe in a reasonable and rational BAR A BOO, Wis.. Jan. J.-Al RIngllng.
preparedness for the safety of our nation. years old. died here yesterday of
bearina In mln,i that we are not and ! Brlght's disease. He had been ill about
should not be a military nation. Our
Serbian King Peter .
Is Now at Saloniki
LONDON, JaJn. King Peter of Ser
bia, who reached Italy last week from
Albania, is said by Reuter's Athens cor
respondent to have arrived at Salontkl
on a French battleship. He was accom
panied by several Serbian ministers and
officers.
Al Singling Is Dead;
Noted Circus Owner
coast defenses should be adequate for
all probable requirements. I do not favor
a large standing army, but we should
have facilities whereby a large army of
educated and equipped men can be read
ily called into service.
"I believe the government so far as
possible should manufacture its own mu-
i spite all reports to the contrary, whrn ' nltlona of wsr."
the party left the Oscar II., It wss as "When do jou
Comparative Local Record.
1916. 1815. 1914. 1913.
Highest today M 4 it:
Loweat today 23 11 21 ti
Mean temperature 30 21 SI 21
Precljttation 0 .0 .03 .0
Temperature and precipitation depart
' urea from the normal at Omaha since
t March lat, and compared with the last
,ai wo yeara:
JT Nlirnml lutiiliA r. I m n ra 91
Kxwm tor the dav 0
Total deficiency ince March 1. 1915. ...56
Normal precipitation ul Inch
Itt-rU'lrncy for tho day 02 Inch
Total itrvclpiiatloii alnie March 1.. 27.41 in.
iH-ficii-ncy Kline March 1 l.M In.
lH-flriiiy fr cor. iwrtod In 1ull. 3 47 In.
Deficiency for cor. period In 1911.. 6.56 lu.
(From a Staff Correspondent.)
LINCOLN. Jan. 2. (Special.) Accord
ing to W. T. Thompson, chairman of
the executive committee of the dry cam
paign committee, there Is a pretty good
chance that Nebraska mny go dry In
19W. However, Mr. Thompsun, like many
37 other campaign prophets, hsa an "if,"
which stands In the way to take the
!!"!3.Jy out of life for the dry advocate,
and the state will surely go dry "if"
the dry people do not get over confident,
and think they have got things all com
ing their way, and lose out thereby.
He charges that the wet element ha.
had control of thing, for thirty years,
but a change has taken place in the
past two months, and business men and
others who have heretofore been favor
able to wet conditions are now openly
for a change. He thlnka that Inasmuch
as all territory around Nebraaka is now
dry, that people fear that unless No
tiranKa goe. usewise tne state will t r
dumping ground for all that la undealr
able in connection with wet conditions.
BEATRICE BANKS PROTEST
TAX ASSESSMENTS
BEATRICE. Neb., Jan. J.-(Special.)
Taxes amounting to $3,000, paid under
protest byelght banks of Gage county,
will stand on the tax books until the
matter has been threshed out through
the district court. The banks have ap
pealed from the decision of the County
Board of Supervisors. The banks claim
the board lias no legal right to assess
farm mortgages, while the board holds
that It has.
Ten cases of smallpox were reported at
Wymore Friday, and ir any more new
cases develop no services will be held in
the churches Sunday, and the public
schools will not be allowed ya resume
after tho holiday vacation. It is also
the intention of Mayor McMullen to
close all the moving picture houxes.
Nearly 100 boy scouts held a rabbit
"feed" at the Young Men's Christian as
soclation building New eYar's eve when
they watched the old year out and the
new year In. The rabnlta were killed by
the boys Friday, twenty-three bring pre
tared for I ho banquet.
expect to file?"
satisfactorily solved. Ttie department Is
considering all phases of the situation.'
Sulphuric Acid Hearer.
The crippled state of the phosphate liv
dustry Is attributed to tne high price of over the world. The nations doing the
sulphuric acid, much of which is being fighting would be glad to stop If they j
"The main Idea of the mlaMa n." flin
tlnued Mr. Ford, "was to crystallize into j
concrete form. Get the various ideas and j
and hopes for advice, which prevail all
"Perhaps within the jnxt ten days."
Dr, Sun Reported
Returning to China
a year. Mr. Rlngllng was tne oinesi or
the RIngllng brothers, circus owners,
who have their winter headquarters here.
Mr. RIngllng la survived by a widow.
HAILSTORM FRIGHTENS
PEOPLE OF TABLE ROCK
used now In the manufacture of war
munitions. The price has jumped from
$5 to $25 a ton. Demand for the acid Is
so heavy that abandoned plants are be
ing refitted for its manufacture. The
Bureau of Soils, meanwhile. Is experi
menting with the manufacture of plios
phorlo acid as a substitute for sulphuric.
Nitrate prices have advanced since the
war began, but there Is an abundant
supply of nitrogenous fertilizing ma
terial, and the department is endeavor
ing to find methods to rhtmpen the cost
of manufacture. The secretary concludes
with a warning to farmers to conserve
all fertilizing materials on the farm. He
urges crop rotation, proiier use of fer
tilisers and also use of time to increase
productivity of the soil.
Wreck Victims Will
Sue Union Pacific
BEATRICE, Neb., Jan. l.-(Speclal.)-Damage
suits aggregating )JO0,(M0 will be
filed against the Union Pacific company
soon as a result of the wreck at Ran
dolph, Kan., a few months ago, in which
eleven people lost their lives, unless the
claims presented by relatives of those
killed are settled within the next few
days. The claims run all the wsy from
$2,000 to $5,000 each.
but they are afraid
could, I believe
to let go.
Fine Hunch of People.
"Those who accompanied me on the
Oscar II. were as fine a body of people
for that particular mission as I could
ssk. and the interested d-lega'cs that
firat president of the republic of
China, has ercaped from surveillance
under which he Is said to have been held
met us at Chrlstlanla were all good men. Toklo. Japan, for more than two years,
I am simply financing and carrying out ,nd on n'8 bacK to China, accord
as far as possible the work ss set under ln to a statement msde t day by Fo Sun.
way last year at the meetln at Th son of the former president, who is a
TABLE ROOK, Neb., Jan. J. (Spe
cial.) A terrible electrical storm passed
over hore at about 11 o'clock Friday
night accompanied by loud peals of thun
der and blinding flashes of lightning.
Hail felt in great quantities and chunks
of Ice, many of which were dlscemable
on the walks and streets at daylight this
1 morning. There was a heavy fog at the
T-Vnm TAirm Tn nin time and the darkness could almost bo
X lUill XUJVlUj U ay dll fcltt Many weT9 bauy frightened at the
i loud roar which came with the storm. A
BBRKKLF V, '!.. Jan. 2 -Dr. Hun Yat ! Hz.llng rain fell nearly all night
Ben,
EIGHT THOUSAND ATTEND
TIJUANA RACE OPENING
TIJUANA. Mexico. Jan. i Despite ad
verse weather conditions more than 8,0J
persons attended the Inaugural race meet
Hauge of the Women's International student In a senior class st the University of th, i,wrr California Jockey club here
peace congress. This work ultimately
will bilng Europe to Its sense., and
stop the war.
"If what I have done will bring peace
only one day nearer 1 shall be more than
repaid. Every day the war ia shortened
will save Si.000 lives, and 30,000 lives will
mean much toward restoring order and
normal conditions.
May Hrtam to Ksriipe,
of California, following the receipt of the
menage from his father.
"Sham Cheung linen has been named
; provlHlonal head of the revolutionists as .
' he Is a military expert, " said Fo Sun to
, day. "I do not think there Is any doubt
' of the success of the revolution as more
than half of ths provinces are in open
' revolt against Yusn Shi Kal. I do not
know exactly where my father is, but I
todsy. A light rain had made the coursa
soggy and slow time was recorded In
each of the six events.
Prominent sporting men from Los An
geles and San Francisco and race track;
enthusiasts from Juarez, New Orleana
and eartern cities were here for the open
ing. The meet will continue for 100 days.
TECUMSEH BOY FINISHES
. HIS TERM IN THE NAVY
TECUMSEH, Neb., Jan. l- Special.)
Kills F. Gay, son of Dr. and Mrs. B. F.
Gay of Tecumseh, has Just finlahed a
four years' enlixtnicnt In the United
states navy and returned home. His dis
charge was at Kan Francisco two week,
aiso. Mi. Guy enlisted In Lincoln, Neb.,
four yeara ago.
"If necessary I will a rain ia to Kurniw. presume that he is in China or on hla
and If It will help matters I will charter there. He left Toklo several days
another ship. I am not dolnr It for per- ' sgo."
(foi.tii.ued on 'Pagef woColumnTwol According to prominent Chinese In San
Francisco Dr. Sun has the confidence of
Av,nl-n "D-l, T5..i. the republican factions, especially those
lliiaLUUl JJUillUrUL in the southern provinces of China.
Under State House
BOSTON, Jan. 2. An unsuccessful at
tempt to dynamite the state house wss
made today A bomb containing four
pounds of explosive was attached to a
bsaement door and a fuse had been
lighted, but the flsme apparently tiled
before reaching the detonator.
Had the exploalon occurred, in the
opinion of the police the building would
have been greatly damaged. The fact
that tarred rope was used as a fuse,
according to 1-iveHtist on indl ated that
the bomb was the work of a novice.
A scrub woman discovered the bomb
this morning. The police took it to a sub
urb and t litre discharged tue dynamite.
FEWER FIRES IN CHICAGO
j LAST YEAR THAN IN 19H
! CHICAGO, Jsn. S.-Ttie fire loss in
Chicago In 1915 was $l,lt3.7!4, according
to the report of Chief O'Connor. Clii-
1 cago's firemen responded to 13,631 alarms
! In 191.1, and in 1914 they made 14.977 runs.
I This decrease of 1.436 fires was ascribed
to three causes: The heavy rain during
SISTERS ARE BURIED IN
SAME GRAVE AT SIDNEY he summer months, the work of the flra
, prevention bureau in sttmulatlng greater
precautions against fire, the aresl and
convictions of members of the "arson
trust."
FREDDIE WELSH OUTPOINTS '
WHITNEY WITH SOME EASE
SIDNEY, la.. Jan. i.-SpecIal.)-There
was a double funeral tn Sidney Friday
when Louelta Mae Richards, aged 14
years, and her sister. Alma Maude Rich
ards, aged 13 years, wre burled in the
same grave. They died of scarlet fever.
The younger one died first, and while 1
the undertaker was at the home prepar
ing the body for burial, the older sister
died. They were the daughters of Mr.
and Mrs. Ed Richards, who live six
miles southesst of Kidney. There Is but
one child left In the family, a younger
daucbter.
ATLANTA. Ga.. Jan. l.-Freddle Wehth,
lllihtweight champion, easily outpotntej
Frank Whitney In a ten-round no-dc-clulon
bout here last night. Whitney wa
credited with one round, the fourth, sue
during the remainder of the fight it su-
waUUt iu not ax.teadii. birosalf.
