A RINGIE SPEECH
Hon. A. F. Pratt of Anoka, Makes a
Stirring Appeal to Young Men
to Come to the Front.
Asks Them to Rail} to the Support
of Leaders Who Ha^ the Cour-
age of Their Convictions.
At the lurcheon grven to Mr. Frank
B. Kellogg by the Commercial club of
Anoka last Saturday, Hon. A. F. Pratt
presided and sounded a clarion call to
young men to do their duty in the cam
paign this year. He spoke as follows:
"This year will be a tmrung point in
the history of the lepubhcan party. It
is a time for new, vigorous and capa
ble leadership
F "This is no time for the dreamers,
llhe theorists, the demagogues or the
"'slackers.' Impractical, timorous, time
serving or cowardly leadership can re
sult^m nothing but disaster.
/'This is the day for the patriotic,
the unselfish and the unafraid, for the
man of ability, ision and courage, the
day of the 'big-man-for-the-job,' yes,
even of the 'big-man-for-the-little
job,' for in the strenuous days to come,
mistakes by those the 'little jobs'
may be senous and costly.
"Above all it is the young man's day
and the young man's opportunity. He
must bear the burdens and the re
sponsibilities of the future, he will
suffer most from any mistakes made,
and profit most from the results of
capable and courageous leadership.
"With the 'open door' in the far east
tight closed our faces, the commerce
of the Pacific controlled by a foreign
power, with our neighbors on the north
straining every nerve for life or death
as a unit in the world war with actual
war on our southern border, with
the echoes of the great war sounding
in our ears from the near east, and
with all the new and mighty issues,
national, industrial, social and econo
mic, confronting us as a nation, our
own country and the republican party
are today face to face with a crisis not
equalled for generations in the past.
"Upon the patriotism, wisdom and
breadth of vision with which we shall
solve these problems, depend the fu
ture welfare and prosperity of our
country.
"These momentous issues have
arisen without our consent, many of
them against our will, but they must
be met.
"There can be no turning back the
beliefs, theories and policies of the
years gone by cannot be those of to
day or tomorrow we are no longer
insular, and never again may we
return to that condition with or with
out our consent we have taken and
must continue to take our position as
an influence in world politics, with all
the risks and responsibilities involved.
We must meet the problems involved
in preparedness against war, or for
war, if war should come, in defense of
just and lasting peace, and above all,
the industrial, social and economical
situations which arise when again
there is peace throughout the world,
and during the years to follow. And
the work and responsibilities of peace
will doubtless be by far the most
difficult and most important.
"We must realize that when peace
is concluded, we shall be met with the
most terrific industrial and commer
cial competition ever known, either
through the greatly increased influx
of foreign labor, or the import of
foreign goods, or both. Every possi
ble effort will be made by the nations
now at war to recoup their financial
losses by foreign commerce, and in
furtherance of that purpose will be
employed their almost matchless effi
ciency and industrial organization
perfected both in peace and in war.
"So it is all important, not only-to
discuss and thresh out these matters
in the coming campaign, but select the
right leadership for the tasks that
confront the young men of today.
"As in the sixties the young men of
the republican party stood behind Ab
raham Lincoln for freedom and the
saving of our country and its institu
tions, and in the early eighties worked
with Garfield, Blaine and Harrison in
the economical and industrial reor
ganization following the Civil war,
and in 1896 and 1900 supported Mc
Kinley and Roosevelt in preserving
the faith and credit and honor of our
nation, so should those of today rally
must meet these new and vast prob
lems which have been so suddenly
thrust upon us.
"The young men of our country are
beginning to realize their responsibil
ities, their privileges and their duties,
and are doing: their part to improve
Society
conditions in our land, to preserve the
best of the old methods of industry
and government, and at the same time
to develop the best of the new, and
make them all work for the welfare
of the whole people. But there can
be no hanging back, no standing still,
no half-heartedness. Continued prog
ress and that alone will work out our
salvation.
"Our republic cannot long endure
unless each and every citizen shall be
intelligent enough and patriotic
enough to do his full share of public
duty and realize his full Share of pub
lic responsibilities and burdens. To
that end it is the duty and the privi
lege of the new leadership to keep
the door of opportunity open to the
humblest of our land, and to give to
each and all of our citizens the en
couragement and protection, the social
and industrial justice, which will'per
mit them to make the best of them
sel\ es and their surroundings in life,
that they may contribute their full
share to the progress, the strength
and the gloij of our nation.
"The problems before \is call for
leadeiship the best obtainable, the
most sincere and honest, the most cap
able and experienced, the most devot
ed to the public weal they call for
real men of real courage, of genuine
constructive statesmanship, of a high
order of ability, and of a character
with loftiest patriotic purposes.
"The great state of Minnesota is
fortunate that in selecting a candi
date for the United States senate,
such a man is offered for the support
of the young men of our common
wealth, in Frank B. Kellogg. We can
rally around him with full assurance
that our high ideals will be amply
realized. The successes which have
attended his career from farmer boy
of southern Minnesota to the presi
dency of the American Bar associa
tion and one of the leaders of public
thought and action in our country, are
only the beginnings of what may be
expected from him in the senate of the
United States, and our state will in
deed be fortunate in his work and in
his fame.''
Baccalaureate Exercises.
The annual baccalaureate exercises
were held at the Armory,v
in support of the new leadership which facter to some of the less worth while
things of life, which men in all ages
and climes have devoted themselves to.
It is possible to accumulate a multi
tude of material things, but they are
not lasting possessions like character.
Knowledge may also be acquired, and
here Emerson was quoted, as saying
R. C. DUNN, Publisher. Terms, $1.00 Per Year. PRINCETON, MILLE LACS COUNTY, MINNESOTA, THURSDAY, JUNE 1, 1916
IH
Sunday ev-
ening, and a large audience composed
of friends and relatives of the class of
1916 of the Princeton high school
was in attendance.
The armory was tastefully decorat
ed for the occasion in the colors of the
school and class.
A musical program was given from,
7 to 7:30, preceding the regular ex
ercises, and it included a selection by
the high school orchestra, and vocal
solos delightfully rendered by Miss
Marguerite Byers, Mrs. Gibson and
Mrs. H. C. Cooney, with vioKn obli
gato by Chester Cooney.
The regular services opened with a
selection pleasingly given by the high
school orchestra, and an anthem,
"Glory to God," by a quartet followed,
and was well received. Rev. E. B.
Service then pronounced the invocation,
after which Mrs. Gibson favored those
present with a vocal solo. Lesson:
Ephesians 4, was then read by Rev.
E. B. Service, and a well executed
violin solo by Chester Cooney was the
next number. Mrs. Gibson and Gro
ver Umbehocker then sang a duett in
a manner that won the favor of the
audience, and the sermon to the class
was given next.
Rev. Samuel Johnson delivered the
sermon, and it was an able and inspir
ing effort that contained much whole
some advice. "Twentieth Century
Character,'' was the subject, and Rev.
Johnson did complete justice to it.
At the outset the speaker explained
various of the meanings and shades of
meaning of the word ".character," and
stated that out of the various mean
ings evolved two had adhered
throughout the centuries. The ancient
Greeks understood a character, to he
the instrument they used to make a
seal upon their official documents, or
a sign upon their merchandise, and in
time not only the instrument used but
the article itself was called a charac
ter. These two things lead us to the
true interpretation of the word when
it is applied to human life. Character
is the real work of life, said Rev.
Johnson. Personality is the instrur
ment which molds and-shapes out of
the material of heredity, environment
and experience that which is known
as character.
The speaker then compared ^char-
C*
lJS s*^ ilaaSSn^-siaai
Kellogg at Anoka.
Last Saturday Mr. Frank B. Kellogg
visited Anoka and was the guest of
honor at a luncheon given by the Com
mercial club of that city. In the after
noon he made a flying trip to Elk
River, Big Lake and Monticello and
met a large number of the business
men and farmers at those places. In
the evening he returned to Anoka and
addressed a large meeting, over which
Judge Giddings presided, at the Sta
dium. More than half of the audience
was" comprised of farmers from the
surrounding country. Mr. Kellogg
was attentively listened to and was
greeted with frequent outbursts of
applause. It was by all odds the most
successful political meeting held in
Anoka for many years. But it was
simply a repetition of what has oc
curred in every town Mr. Kellogg has
spoken in since he opened., his cam
paign so auspiciously at Rochester*^
jr
E LATE JAMES JEROME HILL
"Character- is more than intellect," i Commencement Exercises.
Goodness outshines intellect as the i This evening at the. Armory the
sun makes the electric light cast a (commencement
shadow. Human charadter is a spir- 'of 1916 of the Princeton high school
ltual accumulation of the soul's aggre- will be held, and an appropriate pro-
gatethe. sum of moral qualities gram, including an address by Pres-
which distinguish a man from the ident George E. Vincent of the Uni-
beasts. Dr. O. P. Gifford was quoted' versity of Minnesota, will be carried
as saying: "If an animal lives for noth- out. President Vincent is able and
ing but what he can dig out of the eloquent, and an intellectual treat is
ground, I don't see that it makes much [in_ store for those who attend*.
difference whether he walks on two '-The class of 1916 is the largest in
feet and wears a ring on his .hand or the history of the Princeton schools
walks on four feet and wears a ring
in his nose." There is very little
difference between man and beast, un
less there be moral character. It is
that that makes man human it is that
that links him to the Divine, and it is
that that seals him forever as the son
ofXJod.
A standard measure for character
was then dwelt upon, and the speaker
urged his hearers to make Christ their
standardthe meek and lowly Naz
arene whose superb character was pre
eminent. "Does he whose heart
prompts him to become a master of
music confine his efforts to blowing a
penny whistle?" asked the speaker.
Christ is God Almighty's standard of
what the character of man ought to
be and towards Him the noblest of
souls will forever struggle.
In conclusion he called attention to
the fact that while the great univer
sities of the country might be closed
to some of the graduates, all could
graduate in God's university of char
acter and gain diplomas therein. When
the semester of life passes there is
another graduation day, and the joys
or sorrows of that day depend upon
the character made by the individual
in life.
It was a splendid sermon, and one
that cannot be otherwise than helpful
to the graduates as they journey
through life.
Another anthem by the quartet was
well received, and after the benedic
tion by Rev. Service, the exercises
closed with a selection by the high
school orchestra.
a ts
7*
7*
exercises of the class
numbering 32. Twenty-four of the
students are girls, while eight are
Doys. The class motto is, *"Only a
Commencement," while the colors are
crimson and black.
Hereunder appears the program as
it will be given at the Armory this
evening:
PROGRAM
High School -Orchestra
Rev E. Service
FJorence Slater
(a} Spring Song Frank Lynes
(b) On the Adrian Sea Gordon Temple
(c) I Love You Angelo Mascherson
Marguerite Bxeis
Commencement Address, Dr. George Edgar
Vincent, Presidert University of Minnesota.
(a) Daffodils Kmg Hall
(b) Welcome, Pretty Primrose Pmsuti
High School Girls.
Valedictory Myrtle Nelson
Presentation of Diplomas, Dr D. A McSae,
President of the Board of Education.
Benediction Rev E. Service
Selections Invocation Salutatory
Civic Betterment Club Active.
The ladies of the Civic Betterment
club are active* in commendable work
along lines that make the name of that
organization particularly appropriate.
The club had charge^of the work of
placing Oak Knoll cemetery in a
presentable condition for Memorial
day, and it is no flattery to state that
the organization did itself proud in
'supervising the clean-up. Oak Knoll
was thoroughly combed with a rake,
and all the dead grass was consumed
by fire. The Princeton fire department
put in two evenings at the cemetery,
and the ladies also aided in the work.
As a result the "silent city" presents
an appearance of neatness that is
gratifying to those possessed of civic
pride. A caretaker has been engaged
to look after the cemetery, and his
sen ices will be retained as long as
funds permit. The ladies cannot be
expected to do the work and finance it
also, and several have contributed to
the fund. Those who desire to see the
good work continued, and have not
aided the same,, are requested to leave
what cash donations they desire to
make with Mrs. J. F. Petterson. All
aid will be gratefully received.
Another matter in,which the ladies
of .the club interested themselves is
worthy of especial mention. As a re
sult of their efforts the grounds about
the Armory have been beautified. The
yard in front of same has been, nicely
leveled off, and two flour beds in
bloom enhance the appearance of it.
The ladies are entitled to the thanks
and co-operation of all good citizens
in their work to make Prineetog. a
more desirable place of^residence^
Eleven Filings.
Monday was the last day that filings
for county office could be made, and
there were 'few last-minute develop
ments. A total of eleven candidates
have filed, but there will only be one
contest at the primariesin the First
commissioners district.
There were no filings in this district
until the afternoon of the last day,
when George'Schmidt started the ball
rolling by making the necessary ar
rangements to have his name appear
upon the ballot. Before evening Wil
liam Klingbeil also filed for the posi
tion, and that night F. C. Cater tossed
his hat in the ring. Messrs. Schmidt
and Klingbeil are both former mem
bers of the Princeton town board. Mr.
Cater is the present commissioner
from this district, and is at present
chairman of the board. The names of
these three will appear upon the pri
mary ballot, and the two highest will
be nominated and battle it out at the
general election next fall.
Commisssioner Eckdall of the Third
district, was without opposition until
the last day, when Chas. M. Peterson
of Bogus Brook, became a candidate.
Hereunder appears a complete list
of the candidates for office in Mille
Lacs county.
Clerk of the District CourtRobt.
Bi King and H. A. Garrison.
Judge of the Probate CourtWm. V.
Sanford and P. C. Lynch.
County Comomissioner, First Dis-
trictGeo. Schmidt, Wm. Klingbeil,
and F. C. Cater.
County Commissioner, Third
trictCarl Eckdall and Chas.
erson.
County Commisssioner, Fifth
trictJames F. Warren and S. B. Ter
willigar.
Dis- Pet- Dis-
Suddenly Stricken.
C. P. Christiansen, proprietor of the
Ideal restaurant in this village, wai
unexpectedly ^stricken with heart fail
ure 'Monday ,morning at about 9:30
o'clock, and 'surrendered life almost
instantaneously. Mr. Christiansen had
been attending to his affairs in the
restaurant up to a few minutes pre
vious to his taking away. He had not
complained of illness, but it is very
evident thatA.short time_nrevious to
his demise he dad irot feel weft, a,S
fie1the
went upstairs to bed shortly before
the end came. His wife heard him-ex
claim with pain soon after he left the
fining room, and she.hurriedly ascend
ed the stairs, tmly to find him dead.
The remains were taken to Glenville
yesterday morning, and the last sad
rites are being conducted at that place
today. Interment will be made in a
cemetery there beside the remains of
three of deceased's children, who have
answered the final summons.
C. P. Christiansen was born in Saby,
Denmark, on August 9,1868. He came
to America in the year of 1881, and
located at Lyle, this state. He was
united in marriage at that place to
Miss Mary Christiansen, and the widow
and three children, Marie, Ella and
Walter, survive him.
For 13 years Mr. Christiansen oper
ated a hotel at Glenville, and he con
ducted a restaurant at Anoka during
the four years preceding his arrival in
Princeton last October.
During his brief residence here he
won the respect of all those with
whom he came in contact, and his un
expected death is deplored by all who
learned to know him.
August Sonnenberg.
August Sonnenberg, a respected res
ident of Princeton town, succumbed to
tuberculosis Monday, after an illness
of about a year's duration.
Funeral services are being conduct
ed this afternoon, first from the family
residence and later from the German
Lutheran church, of which deceased
was a faithful member. Rev. Otto
Strauch is conducting the final ser
vices, and interment will be in the
church cemetery.
August Sonnenberg was a native, of
Russia, and at the time of his demise
was 51 years of age. He had been a
resident of this country for 30 years,
and Princeton had been his home dur
ing the past four years. During his
residence here he made a most favor
able impression upon those who had
formed his acquaintancer-n4.. all
learned to esteem him. The widow"f]
and three childrentwo sons and a
daughtersurvive him.
Fire Destroys Barn and House.
^Pire supposed to have been caused
by a defective chimney wiped out the
residence on the S. P. Woodman farm,
south of town in Baldwin, yesterday
afternoon, and the flames spread to
the barn'api that was consumed also.
The loss was partially covered by in.-
ETV
VOLUME XL.- NO. 24
FITTINGLYOBSERVED
Business Activities Suspended in Our
Village While Citizens Honor
Our Soldier Dead, Tuesday.
Impressive Services Mark the Annual
ObservanceE. L. McMillan De-
livers Eloquent Address.
Tuesday was Memorial day, and citi
zens throughout the United States
paid homage to the honored soldier
dead. The first observance of Mem
orial day was held in 1868, and it was
due to the Grand Army of the Repub
lic, which was organized two years
previous thereto. Each year since that
time citizens have observed the day
with! increasing tenderness, as the
ranks of the surviving veterans grow
thinner.
Reverent services for the gallant
soldiers who won the immortal vic
tory for Union and Liberty, more than
half a century ago, marked the observ
ance of the day in Princeton, and an
audience of about 800 people filled the
spacious Armory where the exercises
were conducted. The honored living
were remembered as well as the re
vered dead, and the program carried
out was particularly appropriate.
The old soldiers congregated at the
T. H. Caley residence at 1 o'clock,
and after listening to several selec
tions by the Princeton band, and a
song by pupils from Miss Davis' room,
formed in line and marched to the
Armory. Seats had been reserved for
the "old boys in blue" in the center
section, well up toward the front, and
30 of the gallant veterans attended the
exercises.
"Homeland Melodies," a selection by
that ever popular organization, the
High School orchestra, was the open
ing number of the program. A quin
tet composed of Mesdames Cooney and
Gibson, Miss Marguerite Byers and
Messrs. Grover and Charles Umbe
hocker -then sang, "They Sleep on
Fields of Battle," in a touching man
ner. After a prayer by Rev. E. B.
Service, the quintet sang, "Our Com
rades Sleep," and then Irene Umbe-
^aclse^-aftd Chester.J|.ojofcey favjored
audience wftn a Violin duett.
Attorney E. L. McMillan, who de
livered the Memorial day address, was
next introuced by Rev. Samuel John
son in a few well chosen sentences,
in which he said that Mr. McMillan
needed no introduction to an audience
composed as that one was of* friends
and neighbors. That Mr. McMillan did
justice to the subject and occasion, no
one who is acquainted with his emi
nent ability could doubt, and those
who listened to his patriotic message
delivered sincerely, solemnly and im
pressively were inspired to better citi
zenship. The Union has been fortu
nate enough to secure a copy of the
address, and with pleasure gives it
hereunder full:
Again has Memorial day come to us,
bringing with it its sacred memories
of the past. Again are we brought
together tp dwell for a time among
those memories, and to honor our
selves in honoring those, who in the
hour of our country's greatest need,
magnificently responded to our coun
try's call to consecrate ourselves anew
to our present and future duties, in
our country's present and future needs,
be they what they may. We are come
that these veterans, surviving heroes
of a great heroic epoch, may
know that their great service is re
membered still that their great ex
ample is still our great incentive, still
arousing our greatest emulation.
For each one the day is filled with
memories all his own.
At this time I might call attention
to the fact that Memorial day has an
added significance this year, as the
nation, and the northwest in particu
lar, mourns the recent passing of one
who contributed far more than it usu
ally falls to the lot of one man to con-*
tribute to the worldMr. James J.
Hill. Mr. Hill ever displayed a deep
affection for the members of the Grand
Army of the Republic, and it was not
alone his work as an empire builder
that made him honored among men.
His interest in all matters that affect
ed the welfare of the ^tate and nation
was keen, but be was especially inter
ested in affairs relating to the G. A. R.
So it is only proper that we pause
for a moment in these exercises, and
pay a reverent tribute of respect to
.the ^distinguished citizen of our state,
whTJse worldly career is closed.
Among my earliest "recoHections^is
that of a very little boy, solemnly lis
teTHng-tojjvords of solemn praise and
commendation p- to thg^ plaintive bugle
call to the crashing volleyo4*the fir
ing squad over his father's tent *&-%
green of a little boyish heart thrilled
with unexplained and but little under
stood emotion of* a well nigh over
whelming sense of proud grief and sor
rowsorrow and grief.
And as year has followed year into
the past, it has sometimes seemed to
me that grief and sorrow have been at
times almost too persistent guests on
these occasions that we might per-
-*i
