THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair to-day; showers to-morrow, north
to east winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 71; lowest, 60.
Detailed weather, mnll and mm hie reports 011 pase IS.
IT SHINES FOP, ALL
tm.
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 275.
COLONEL CALLS
WILSON SPEECH
WEASELWORDS
Tirsiilpiil's "Volimtai'.v"
Training Takes (lonil Out
of I'liivtM-sul System.
GKKKTKl) HV (IKK AT
CROWDS IX ST. LOUIS
Bryan and Ford Nice Men,
nml He Likes Thorn in
Private Life.
1AI NO FAVORITES
WHEX EXECUTIVE
IliiiKou'lt Assails Gorinan
Anii'riean Alliance as
Anti-American.
Pr Locis, May 31. Theodore Hoosc
, "pent a busy day here to-day, mak
ing tluee speeches, In which he de
nounced the CJerman-Amerlcan Alliance
l in anti-American Alliance-. He lis
ailed what lie called the hyphenates, as
mtiug that the acts cf the leaders of
ti.e (iernian-Amerlc.iti Alliance, who seek
to coerce public men, are "moral trea
son "
Mr P.oosevclt arrived ho early this
morning that only about 3.0M0 people
wtrc on hand to greet him. Hut when
! came out of the Mercantile Club and
enured his automobile to be driven to
the City Club he was greeted by a throne
that tilled the streets.
Winn the Colonel was seen In the busi
ngs district thousands gathered, cheer
ing and applauding him. His speeches
ere all received with great acclaim.
Ills speech nt the City Club In the
afternoon was the only one of the three
prepared In advance. In this he added
a pedal denunciation of the German
American Alliance of .St. Louis for vot
ing down a pioposal to take part In the
preparedness parade which will be held
here on June 3.
In the course of one nf his talks, re
p!)lhg to President Wilson's speech, he
ilfvl.ueil that lie tlld not have to deal
Tfltli Hryan or Ford.
"Hoth are nice, amiable men, and 1
like them In private life," he said, "but
1 decline to take part in any such wild
mental Joy ride as would be necessary if
I had to discuss seriously their atti
tude." Itoosevelt' first speech was made at
breakfast at the Planters Hotel, where
Iih was taken immediately after his
rival. A crowd erected him at the
Union Station, but few were on the
tresis along the route to tho hotcL
Tnke Inane With WlUon.
In his speech at breakfast the Colonel
dvutcd most of his time to taking Issue
Kith President Wilson's Memorial Day
ddtes.
"Tli- Piesldent ill his speech said he
as for universal voluntary training,"
aiil Mr Itooscvelt. 'That Is an expres
sion jnecisely similar to that which you
vould use if In speaking of schools you
moijid say ou believed in universal
obligatory attendance upon all children
iic.-pt those that didn't wish to go :o
chool at all.
"In connection with the word 'train
ing the words "universal voluntary,'
lave the same infect that acid has upon
alkali t hy neutralize exich oilier.
"J am going to take tho liberty of say
ing Just a wore! about myself In con
lection with my own aiH-estors. I came
of old Colonial stock. My people have
fccn here nso years long before the
llMo'.mion If ou wanted to express
r.) connection with an Obi World land
ou would have to use seven hyphens
for 11 "
Among his ancestors, tho Colonel said,
ere some Germans who founded Ger
mattown, Pa, two Hngllsli ami Welsh
(smiiies of farmers, an Irishman who
lived in Pennsylvania or Maryland, some
ec itui .ma French Huguenots In tlcorgia
ar.d 9jm Dutch,
nidn'i 1'lek Their Foe.
"Mi ancestors." Im continued, "fol
JiBi.ii Washington, and they never nuked
vh. i r i heir Generals were of Kngllsh,
'rrnwn, Irish or French origin, nor did
they ,u Princeton refuse lo light be
cause th enemy wero Ilrltlsh. They
moved against all the forces of the op
position regHrdhss of what land they
tad c ,me fiom.
"Wh..n i was President I treated with
'.'ieiiiship all foreign countries. I
Flayed no favorites, In asserting the
r.glits of this country, whether against
'."gland or Germany, I playesl no
favorite I asserted the rights of this
'fcuntry the e.inif against one as against
the other, ami when asserted the llghtH
' t'ns .ounlry against Kngland I cx
Kcno iH support of every American of
i'T" ''""''"h1' ami when I asserted the
nidi's of tin, country against Germany
'expected the support of every American
J'i irmaii descent That's what I mean
J Playing no r.ivorltes,"
In introducing Mi. Hoosevelt John H.
l.Hli IibiI referred to the I ec,i ration
' i'ldepinilf tir. The Colonel nt this
'" "' n Ins speech turned to Uahy and
i'n referred to the Declaration of
I'kh-i.. ridence. The day after It was
' '"ti the nun who signed It put It iniu
Of'jtioii al th.i risk of Ihdr lives,
"It had lieen merely a collection
'' phrases, If i nl !.,. conslructed
,' '' "niposed merely as a in.ignltlcent
" itionary . ffort, .ami not reduced to
U ii, nobody would have remembered
" a'er It h'l'l been written.
"I lie men who wreitei llm I Jeclaralion
l'el'1 1 mlencii iiansialeil ihdr woids
im , ileitis ,s,, ,n, Abraham Lincoln In
1 'Mtysburg speech, In Ills second In
' a. I addrris If Uncoln In making
'" pl'dues li.id spotecn III a Pnkwlck-
r llm of li'k speeches would
m Hid I" 'iu Don t deslaio for any-
Cmif rnti, f on TMref Page.
HUGHES LEADS FIELD IN
CHICAGO; T. R. AND TEN
RIVALS JOIN TO BEAT HIM
United Movement Under V ay to Elbow Jurist Out of
Race Party Leaders See Danger, However, of
Roosevelt Running Away With Nomination.
Chicago, May SI The situation on
the ee of the meeting of the Hepubllcau
National Committee Is ;
Associate JuMIco Chatles K. Hughes
of the fnlted States Kupreme Court
apparently leads the Held for the lle
Publlcan Presidential noiiilnatlon.
Col. Hoosevelt, IiIh lieutenants and
tho ten so-called favorite sons are
making a common e-ausc against the
Hughes movement.
Hoosevelt's managers realize that until
Hughes Is eliminated the Colonel can
not hope to make any substantial head
way toward securing tho Republican
nomination. The favorite sons are In
exactly the same boat. Hence, both
have trained their guns on the Juris:.
They nre working In a common elTort
to force Hughes Into making n state
ment In regard to his views, or at least
repudiating the efforts that are now
being put forth to get delegates for
him.
In other words, Col. Hoosevelt's back
ers and the other candidates have dc
teimiued that Hughes must be "smoked
out," and the process Is going merrily
on.
Hughes to llemaln Silent.
The Sun correspondent has excellent
ground for predicting that this effort will
full. Mr. Hughes will not make nny
statement of his views. If his nomlna
tlon for President Is to depend solely
uoti such an expression by him It will
not lw forthcoming. Nor will any state
menf bo forced from Justice Hughes
erecting an insurmountable barrier
eg.ilnst his being named.
Definite Information has reached Chi
cago that Justice Hughes's attitude How
ls Just what it has been ever since his
i name was first proposed: that he Is not
! a candidate for tlie nomination and that
he Is not saying whether or not he would
accept If the honor came to him. While
tho Justice himself Is refraining from
making nny direct statement, his friends
are satisfied he would uccept such a
call by the party.
The efforts of the Itoosevelt people
and o the favorite son group to elbow
Hughes out of the running became very
apparent to-day. One story after another
VANDERLIP COMES
OUT FOR ROOSEVELT
Head of National City Hunk
llelieves Preparedness Is
the Vital Issue. I
WA IM. STIJEF.T SHIFTING
The first open declaration of senti
ment among the recognized financial
leaders of the country was made ester
day by Frank A, Vanderllp, president of
the National City Hank, In favor of
Theodore Itoosevelt.
Mr. Vnnderllp'a stand did not come as
a surprise, as the observation of nearly
all men in the financial district for the
past few- weeks has been that the swing
of the opinion there was all toward the
Colonel. This belief was voiced by Mr.
Vanderllp himself In making announce
ment of his position, He admitted that
he. like a great many others, had only
' mine to his present convictions re-
cently He was Assistant Secretary of
I the Treasury under the first McKlnley
Administration.
' "I am for Itoosevelt" said Mr. Van
el. rllp explaining his stand to the news-papi-r
men. "I admit that I was not
some months ago, but I have come to
believe) that Hoosevelt voices the one
great principle that politics has to deal
' with this conipalgn. The necessity of
' jireparedness overshadows everything
eli-e. His attitude Inward business has
been on tho whole. In my opinion, satis
factory, but that Is a minor irsue What
good Is buslneks If the country Is un
able to protect Itself against dangers
i that may threaten?"
i While Mr. Vanderllp was "peaking for
himself alone, It Is the general belief In
Walt Street that he voiced the opinion
of many of tho other more prominent
I men. The supposition has been ever
! since the famous Gary dinner that Roose
velt was In a favorable position to re-
celve the support of banking and com
' merclal Interests, but until recently It
has been felt In the financial district
that he ceaild not be nominated, Within
two weeks, notably since the fonnntlon
I of the George von Ii. Meyer Republican
. committee, this doubt has been sucivedrd
1 by a confidence Hint Roosevelt rnn over
I come old guard opposition and defeat
' Hughes for tho Republican nomination.
Some time ago a canvass taken among
: New York Slock Hxchange members
I showed a preponderance In favor of Root.
I Since that tlnm there has eleveloped, mi
tlceably along with tho confidence In
Roosevelt ' position, a new enthusiasm
for llllil nase'i on im- huvj-h"m m..
Republicans must nominate a man who
would slantl every possible chanco of
election.
'BIG BUSINESS' TURNS.
Viiiiilerllp llerlnratlnti Iteuardeel n
.Merely the Feirerimner.
Ciiilwiwi, May 31.-The news that
Kiaiik A. Vanderllp had declared for
Col. Roosevelt aroused great Interest
hero In all political circles, Ry many
n was regarded as the beginning of a
swing on the part of "big business" fig
ures toward Roosevelt. There had been
many reports hern to-elay that Impor
tant business men wuro turning lo
Roosevelt and would soon nppenr In the
open advocates of his nomination
When the possibility of nominating
Col, Roosevelt was first discussed sev
eral months ago It was known that Im
portant business men of New York were
favorably Inclined toward the suggestion.
Tim fact that the United Stares had
rolled up a huge credit abroad and might
in ed a vigorous foivUn pulley to collect
some of thesn debts was one factor that
figured prominently in the early Rooan
veil talk.
NEW YORK, THURSDAY, JUNE 1, 191C
Copyright, 191 G by the Hun Printing and Publishing Association,
was put In cliculatlou, all drslgncd to
puncture the Hughes boom und all trace
able to Itoosevelt followers or to the
camps of tho so-cilled State favorites.
llefore the ilay wan over a lot of hard
feeling had been stirred up and It seemed
certain that the Hepubllcau gathering
's In for some mud throwing and i-ousld-erable
bitterness before the nominee Is
selected.
The Hughes supporters had heaid to
night that the campaign against the
Jurist was lo be continued with greater
vigor In the next few das and that It
would Include a detugo of telegrams to
li 1 in from all pat Is of tho country de
manding that he declare himself.
Hut while tho Itoosevelt and the
favorite still forces are working toward
a common end, they e-ach have illtTerent
purposes In mind. The Colonel's fol
lowers me positive that If they cm
s'luehh the Hughes movement the
Colonel can canter away with tin
publlcan nomination Thu Stale f.ivoi
Ites believe that If they call only crowd
Hughes out Ot It the selection will be
made from among their number
They figure that Col. Itoeiscvelt nl
re'ai has been "slopped," but It Is evi
dent that occasionally their confidence
on this scoie weakens. For while they
are busily engaged In Inventing seven
teen different brands of trouble for
Hughes they frequently pause long
enough to take a lllng or two at Hoose
velt and assure each other that he Is
utterly and everlastingly Impossible.
However, many of tho Itepubllran
leadeis who drifted In to-day for the
National 'ommlttee meeting which be
gins to-moirow- gave It as their opinion
that the favoilte sons are pla.vlng with
Hie They esprmsed the feur that If
Htiglus Is foiced out Itoosevelt will run
away with the convention. Furthermore
the arilval here of the memberee of the
National Committee e-onllrmcd the Im
pression that has been growing recently
in many quaiterw that President Wilson
W not uolng to be an e-asy candidate to
bent and thai It will be necessary for
the Itepuhllcatis lo 4ut forward their
strongest man.
When the question l nMied ; Who is
the strongetit man? The answer comes
back Invariably: Hunhes or Hoosevelt.
That Is the reason why many Republican
li-adeis believe the strength of the favor
ite sons Is goliu; to melt like snow In
CoiKiiiiicd on .Siioml I'age.
TELEGRAPHERS TALK
OF WALKOUT JUNE 6
Men to Deeide To-day Whether
They Will 'Tie l'p Chicnjro
Convention News.
AHOFT 20.000 INVOLVED
Telegiaphers affiliated wit'i the Com
mercial Telegraphers t'nlon eif America
I will meet here to-day to vole on whether
or not they will rviuse ,i national strike
If they do the general sentiment K that
It shall begin June , on the e ve of the
Republican national convention. In an
attempt to Isolate Chicago from tele
graph communication with othet part"
of the country.
S, J. Konenknmp. piesldent nf the
union, said last night Hint lie l pes.
simlstie over the situation, whl'e Roland
II Malmny, Federal mediator, said that
while the outlook Is extremely serious
there Is reioni for hope that a nation
wide strike will be iivnted
The present situation Is chiefly due
to the action of the Western t'nlon
company In dlseliarii'iig a few telegra
phcis in Itoston. The union teleirninhers
I saj lefusal to reinstate them was all
1 infringement of the rights of the men
) and of the union,
, Mediator Mahany made a report yes
terday to Mr. Konenkamp In which li
. made known what Is s.ild lo be the final
I elecislon of We biern t'nlon official- The
nature or the report was withheld, but
there Is little doubt that the Western
Unlein ii standing firm
"Mr Malnny said he did not look
upon the result of his conferences with
the Western l-'nlon official as entirely
discouraging," s.ild Mr. Konenkamp,
"hut lo the telegraphers the report only
strengthened the general strlko senti
ment of the convention "
The WestiTn Dillon einplnjs about
SO.OftO telegraphers.
Mr. Konenkamp asserted that the
minimum wage of the telegraphers Is
$ a week, but In many cities the men
receive, on mi average, Jl'.'.r.o a week,
while In other citte-s the-y get more
Newspaver telegraphers gel from $::, to
J30 a week, while Wall Street telegra
pheis get mure.
EVEN MONEY BET ON HUGHES.
Chester Thompson Hns f IOIt,OOII to
WiBer nn Hoosevelt nt 7 to 5.
Chester Thompson, a e iiib market op.
er.itor. icports that there has been a
wrqe amount of betting nt even money
that Hughes will be nominated by the
Chicago e-nnvcntlnti and he says he can
not find any ivldeuce of tl Ills of
to against Hughes recently rewrted.
Me Is leady lo tune any such money
eiffered, ho adds,
Thompson quotes B to j against Roose
ct and has Jluo.iliin to bet on Dm
Colonel at odds of " to tl. Tho odds
against Root arc lo 1 and against Fair
banks 1.1 lo l, while others are In the
"long shot" class,
CUBAN COMMISsloNREPORTS.
o Power lo Settle Claim In Porta
(einipiiliy fuse,
,Vioil Cahlt lrimts lu Tnri Scs. .
Havana, May a 1. TIim Cahlne't con
sldeied to-day tho reports of the coin
mission of three nppolnteil by Presi
dent Menocal to ndvlso him regarding
the M'ttlement nf llm claims of Kngllsh
bondholders of the extinct Ports Im-I'l-ovemeiit
Compiim
Senors I'ueto and lluHiiniente advised
the President thai he bad no power to
make a settlement , Senor I'rrrera ad
vised to the contrary The Cabinet m
rrpted 'he majoilty report.
PUBLIC KITCHENS
FAILURE IN BERLIN
' Wrecked by Hungry Mobs in
Hush for Food, lierintin
! Taper Says.
KKSK AT Sjltr, A PA I It!
I 1 ;
;$. I'aid for a Hani Short-.
re of Food Tellingr on
i Children.
Slittlal I nhlf l,nialrh In Tllr. Sis
tNpoN, .May 31. Invistlgalioti of re.
ports on the actual food sltu.'".on In
Germany reveals the fact that conditions
are becoming worse dall The food
situation it threatening to become tl.
mot l!!irtjint factor of :h. gie.it win
A perusal of the German newspapers
discloses a wealth of uccurienci'S reveal
ing thu teal conditions. Complaints ar'
heard ovei where over the illttletiliy of
obi. lining supplies, which arc loiistantly
dwindling The gravity of tip- situation
Is shown by the appointment of Tortllo
vltr. von llatorkl as "food elictator."
whose first effort have not succeeded
ill Improving the situation
Not only ment and bread but nlo all
fats, butter and eggs have bee u p'.aeeil
upon a card system. The all-.tnunt of
eggs In the leading cities does not exceed
three per head weekly.
Plotests against dealers accused of
hoarding foodstuffs have icsulted in the
sending out of vollce to senuii the stores
and homes of merchants, who are heav
ily punished when found guilty of con
cealing foodstuffs. The search of one
Ilerlln merchant's store revealed the ex
istence of a hol.ow floor, where huge
quantities of tonilstuffs lay III hiding.
Measures taken by Von Halockl are
not wele'omed by the people The news
of the arrival of travelling Miup kitchens
e.ircu.ated in Herlln was the occasion of
wild noting, which the JlrrHiur Twjr
Mutf rejMirts as follows.
"All attempt by the Charlottenbutg
authorities tj iclleve the general dis
tress bj a distribution through peram
bulating kitchens containing meals uf
Iirk, peas and potatex-s ended in litter
fiasco Kach kitchen contained U'0 pints
of Mtew A few minutes after Hie kitch
ens arrived the neighboring streets
wvie thremged by thousands eager to se
eure a hate.
"Drivels and attendants were helpless
Ui the face of the mob of shlleklns men,
women and children scooping up the
su-amlng stew with pots, cups, crockery,
hiicheiiwain of v.ry description ar.d
even with Lare hands. Hundreds of old
men and women as well as many chll
dien were knocked elown and trampled
upon. Within a quarter of an hour the
only evidences of fighting were broken
parts of kitchen vans, smashed crockery
and shre ds of clothing littering the road
way. Won't llepcnt r,iierlinenl.
"The authorities new . renounce that
the affair was an experltmnt and thai It
will not be repeated. Hut this Is a pity.
They did not adopt any piecautlons
which might have prevented the scan-
daloUii scenes, Instead causing still tur
ll'er suffering to the people-."
Tho Kcclesiastle-al Consistory or tho
Province of Itnindenbuig .ksui-s a circu
lar letter to the clergv urging them to
take all steps within their power to ex
nlaln the tood shortage to their docks
i and "exhort them to Impiove and I elp
the situation and Inllict punishment when
; necessary."
1 The gresiest anxlet.v le e-uused b) the
decrease In the consumption of milk by
i children, caused by the shortage.
; Prof Roth, writing in Vonciicro. de
i scribed the investigation In the schools
of Per.sdam. -Many chlUIien. he sas,
jare showing an unhealthy complexion,
I and their mental efficiency him ele
creased. The percentage of clilldien euf
' feiing from the eftect of Hie shortage in
Lie leading cities becomes dally wo se
The llirlvirr rltiiny elm .Wiling sajs
I "Five eggs was the utmost available
Mo-day anywhere. As a re-ult lows of
women who had stood in front of store's
I for hours, some since daliri'ak, were
obliged to go home tit jioon with empty
baskets but their hearts overbrimming
with anger, which was given utterance
' in a flood of abuse against the dealers
and In.vrecatlons of the authorities."
i Tvtn (ieear Siolel feir llf.
The I'osslsc'ir Zrlltiny eavs
"At a moment when stores aie raided
for concealing food and the emin'.s are
j severely punished, while thoe who have
not liinugll lllolle) to I'Vade Hie law
i stand In Ions lines for hours hoping to
I ootaln the smallest proportion if rations
i a. lotted by a food cud. the rich are
i siirrivtltiously having fondsiuff at out
I ragcoiis prices, thus depnvlng othcis of
then lair sliate. We Know the ease of a
fanner who sold two geese loi $1,'.. One
uuiomoblllst paid f.'iii for a ham,
j a price for which a prlzu pig could be
i secured in peai'e times
"The apvnlntment of a food dictator
ie not expectil to re'inedy cojiilltlous '
J The .1iie acnie r -Vciicaic ,'en lirti lttcn
I sa s .
I "It Is difficult indeed lo east the
jhoioscope of llm new food dlclatoi, who
must try his hand at the seven's! task
I of tho moment In Germany namely to
i.-issute a food supply for "n.fioo.iiOu peo
, pie'. Olio thing Is rcrtnln : i-ven the
. lltitsht sstem of war latlonUig is un
able to create more food material than
we possess
"Much elcerals. however, upeni the
I wise dlsllibutlon. Wo rxruet Mieiefore
I that the now official will thoroughly or
ganize tho whole food resources without
'compromise or narrow minded consldera.
Hons in favor of certain Inteiested
I groups."
I
Food Snhallliiies lli'iioiiiieeil.
J Tho CirmiA-ri- .nlunn. which Is the
I leading nutlioillj on i hemlstry lu Ger
, many, doiioimii's lu stiong terms some
I eif the aillcles ollered the ieonle
MlliHtltutcti for nutritious fnodsturls. Tim
market fraud Is denounces! by this paper
as a "Herman Infamy." II continues:
"Tim butter substitute which Is so
nuioli advertised Is a yellowish mass,
enniilstlng of S3 per cent, of vvaliT, 17
per e-ent. of butter fat and 13 per ee'lil,
of potato Hour. This produce sells for
fla centis a pound. The popular article
now Is an egg sabstllute called 'olilcl.en
"lie.' It consists of jellow powder, which
Is really maize Hour elveil yellow; The
well known salad nil substitute contains
' 9S per cent, water ami the remainder Is
I gelatlnlzi'd substances nnd dyestiiffs,"
I 'Din otllii.il Government organ, llm
' .Veireileiifse'nr AUgrmrinr rltunn, ad
I inns the seriousness of the f situation
unu nuns :
"III spile of all we have held out and
r?ivtHmiif esn rotirtH Pai:
SHACKLETON OUT
OF ANTARCTIC ICE
Explorer Heaelies Port Stan
ley, Falkland Islands, Af
ter Perilous Journey.
DIM FT I'M)
rnn
MILKS
Twenty-two Men of Expedi
tion Left Ileliiml When
Return Ileiriin.
Slucml fablf fittimlrh In Tllr. fr
LoNt'os-, June l.--The Daily ChionMr
has re'cclved a tele'gram fron Meut. Sir
r.rnest Shackleton, dated Port Stanley,'
Falkland Islands, May 31, announ ing
that he has arrived there
Ills ship, the Kiidurancr. was crushed'
In the Weddell Sen in Octolr, 115, he
telegraphs, and drlftei' for 700 miles In
Ire until April 0 last I.lelit Shackleton
anil his party laudi on Klcphnnt Island
on April lei. I in April 21 I.leut. Shackle
ton and five others left In a 2'i foot loat
for South Georgia I . nd, the starting
point of tho expedition, to seek lu-lp,
leaving twenty-two men In a hole lu the
vi cliffs. All were well when he left
them, the explorer says, but are In
urgent need of rescue
The news eif the safety of the explore
eaine only a few hours after Premier
Asqulth had aiinoimc. d In the House of
Commons that a eominlltce had bes-n
selecled by the Admiralty to consider
the organization of a relief expedition.
He said that the House would Im. re
questesl Hi vote funds for the telle f
ship, which would statt as soon as pi vi
sible. Considerable agitation has b.en going,
on in Fngl.uid for the organization of a
tell, f expedition since the news that
the Aurora had drifted from her base
m Ross Sea. ,
Hlephaut Island I" or... e.f the South ;
SI.e'Hand croup, and Is Jl'O sea miles
i about fi7o land miles l. almost due south
from port Stanley. The Islands are cov- '
ered with snow for the greater part of J
the i'r and grow nothing but lichens, !
mosses ami some scanty gras They ;
are .i haunt eif seals and sea fowl
l,leiit Sha. kli'toti started from South I
eli'orgt.i Island, von miles e-ast of Port
Stanley, on January 10, Ulfi, to erulse
a. loss the uiiexplori'd region about the
so'iili pole His plan wns to e"iter
We'ddell S,,.i. a puadrant of the Antarctic
"I. the Atlantic Mde. cross to the pole
and come- oul Huousli Ross SVa, on the
I'.siitle side One of Ills objevls was lo
determine whether the Victoria chain eif
mountains, extending to the pole, was
a continuation of the Andes He e
plessed belief that the world would hear'
of him in March, l'.M. i
Th" expedition was illvleled Into two
part es, eme uiidt I.leut Sh.i -kleton 'n
the Kr.dur.uici-. taking the Weddell Sea
loute; the other, under I.leut .Kiiea"-
Macktntish, In tie- Aurora, going "i Ro
Se-a to pick up l.ieut. Shackleton and
Ins party when the) had irojsed the
polar region
"n March .'t last a wireless despatch '
was leiilved at Melbourne from Chief'
urriier xenhoitse i-f the Aurora sa)lng.
that the vessel had been scverelv
strained when she was released fiom
the lev on M.irdi It. after a drift of SOu
miles, aid u tides appeals for help sent
through Hie w. liter hiving met with no
lts'on-e li e ves.sel w;ih procee-dlng 10 '
Pe.rl Chalmets, .V. w .calami, with a
Jui Itlddel
A partv of nine men under I.leut
M.u kintoh hail gone Inland Is.fote the
Auroia broke loose anil a searching
patty failed to find tli.m. The Aurora
broke aw.i). leaving the Lieutenant and
his party of n lie behind. Steps are unw
illing t ikeii lit London for the equip
ment of a teller expedition to semen
for them Twp months stores were left
at Hut Point b) the Aurora party for'
the men who were left behind, and other
stoi es were left for them at Cape Kvans
I.leut Sh.'leklet.iii hoped to meet I lies
Alilnr.i party at ISeaidniore Glacier after
e tossing the pole - was thought b.irel)
possible, but s.-mciy probable, that
I.leut Mackintosh ,i j,art would;
tr) to e-arr) mil this arrangement and
strike out for the s,,tckltou parly
With the return of Lieu' Shackleton to
Weddell Sea this possibility of help fur
Hie Mackintosh party is u nloved i
BATTLE AT ITS HEIGHT.
.'toii.ooo shells Fired Dalle nt line
see-tlmi of Vent ii n Line.
"pfnnl Cahlr fifiimlrfi to Tar i
I.ii.miow Mav 31 Despatches fnen
Paris drsi illie the. present German at- ,
tack on Verdun as surpassing In tur.v
i any of the previous attacks and threat
emng to become of iven greater in- i
1 tensit) than those of the past few d
Three hundred thousand shells .if the,
largest cal bre arc hurled dally Into the
narrow sector between Hie west hank of ,
, Hie Meuse and n point to the northeast '
of I.e Mort Ilomtne, blasting the French
defences, which, nevertheless, are being
held tenaclonslv until they are levelled ,
I The desp iteh. s add nothing of cnne. .
qnence to the oHlcliil ciimmuiilqiir. but '
they describe the struggle for the French
' second line as being lu a 'tiln'il stage
! WILSON A "PONTIUS PILATE." !
I .lean lllcheplii liefer nurll o
1 "I'lisollclti'd Meillntlon."
' fiprriilt Cllitr llnillch lo TlIK Sis
j Pakik, M i) 31 .lean Itlchepin, t m
Academician, who contribute fervent, I
I not lo say frenzied, articles to Hie n.
frriiisfuriinf, iiiniiudes a protest against'
"unsolicited limitation" with the winds, 1
1 "If ever we eisk for a mediator It will
j nol be Pontius Pilate " ,
I GERMANY LACKS GASOLENE
i : s i'.
Knvei) Can not l.et
HiioiikIi for III Inr,
reeif t'titit? Itrinlrh In Tilt" Si
IsiNpov. May 31 The Mil; lqils
Amsterdam correspondent telegraphs:
"Owing to the scarcity of gasolene
Germany has practically stopped the use
of piivnte auiomolilles. Including those
of the neutral diplomats. Ambassador
Ger ml sonic necks ago applie d lor per
iiiission to hit) fiioui.li to run one car
foi tliteii months, bin his request vvas re
fused, "A further request for pel mission to
Import gasolene was met wlih the leply
that th" nillllarv authorities would con
sider It ii ss.nv lo confiscate' nil)
quantities nf petiol round in Gernnny
win ' her Imported or not
T is Is ee iiiusl) impeding the em
bassy's effort to watch the condition
piivalllng lu prisoners' e-iiiups."
SHARP CARRANZA N&
DEMANDS IMMEDIATE
RECALL OF U. 5. TROOPS
ALL MEXICANS,
JOIN ARMY BY
Carranza Consul Garcia Calls Upon His Countrymen in
El Paso to Register Border Sees Trouble Com
ing Big Troop Movement.
II) I'l.tMIl V, GIBBON.
Kl. Paho, May 31 Thrco thousand
Mexico soldiers left Villa Ahumado, Ust
night, marching westward In tho dire-.:-Hon
of Kl Vulle.
Gen. Gavira, commander of all Mex
ii'.in forces In north Chihuahua, left
Juaiez this morning for l'a.as Grandcs.
MeMenii artillery is being centred
along the Mexican National Railroad
line between Juarez and Chihuahua.
Minister of War Obregon lias called
upon all Mexicans, regardless uf past
(actional ndheraliies, to take up nrin.
and commissions lu the army of Cai
ranza. Mexican Consul Garcia In Kl Paso has
posted a bulletin calling upon all Mexi
can citizens living m Kl Paso to regis
ter at the Mexican Consulate.
The alsivo appaiently unrelated de
velopiuentH of the past two days, to
gether with the presence of the last
Carranza note lu the hands of the United
States State Department, are conditions
that aie dally Increasing the size of the
giant Interrogation mark which symbol
izes, the mental attitude of the citizen
ship of Kl Paso,
"What's going to happen next"" is
the cr) of tho borderland. The military
observers are beginning to wonder
whether tho presentation or the Car
ranza note and the i-omptetlon of tho
movement of SO.nOo Mexican troops In
northern fhlhu.ir.ua at the same time Is
a coincidence
1 hlnk The) I on Klglit
It is further believed here to-i..glit
that the Mexican opinion, popular and
official, is that Mexle-o now occupies a
military position sufficiently strong to
support Its Increased Insistence with a
demonstration of force
The departure of th" coniparatlvel
targe and fast moving column of Mexi
can cavalry from Villa Ahumuda In the
elite t!on of Kl Vaile is looked upon wito
much concern by tsirderland authorities
who are familiar with Hie location.
. tretigth and equ'pmnt "f Gen Pi r
thing's command.
Kl Valle Is about forty miles west of
BRITISH EXPECT
TRADE BY U BOATS
Experts See No Uenson Why
Submarines Should Not
Cross Oeean.
(iEH.M ANY .IEEHS AT IDEA
iiil I'ahU prtftalc'i lo Tilt "Us
l...rsN, May 31 - The feasibility ..f
i Gei man submarine merchant licet is
not disi'OMtited In naval c-r.ies here On
the lontrar.v, there Is believed to be no
ii.isoti why It should not be atteinpteil
It is even suirgesti'd that I'tinee von
Ruelnvv, If he desires to g, upon a mis
sion to the Culled States, as rumored re
.eiitly. may cross the Atlantic In a sub
marine, vv lileii would achieve a spectac
ular effect II" would also avoid the
risk of refusal of a safe conduct b.v the
llritish.
Thete is n report that a trans.itl.nit..
submarine has been built at Stettin and
that It will shortly proceed on a sea
vo.igit from Hamburg. The repnil is
not discredited here. The estimated
length of the boat Is tf.O feet, and the
i raft Is said to be aid" to icm.iiu at
sea for twenty d.is without touching
port
Naval aiilhotttles regard Ill's as pos
sible, as a llritish submarine went forty
eight d,i.vs wltnout touching port, moving
all the time The question as to what
status such a submarine merchant Heel
would have is spe.iilatlvi. but It Is
thought hete that Hn ie Is no reason why
mch Isiats could not be leglstered as
iiieichantmen and enjoy the same privi
leges. An Interesting situation would arise If
the boats carried passengers, the chief
question being Whether they would be
warned and whether the safety of the
passengers would be guaranteed in case
the I' boats encountered allied warships.
The Km Iiiisrhe Ziiftiiii; describes the
re-port of Gerunui submarine mercantile
vessels as "fantastic nonsense, which
would shame a Munchausen"
"We learn that the 1 Inmbiirc-Amert-can
Line would only Institute fi eight sub.
marines If In the futuie they ill, I not se
cure the friedom of the sean," says
the newspaper ''Thev would then se
cure freisloui under the seas, but they
would have to build subiuarUies of nt
least tlfly thousand tons "
STEAMERS FIRE ON U BOAT.
German Olllelnl Report Tells nf t
(nek Which Flllleil.
Sfirentl CaMr Vmitteli In Tur Six
Hrm.lN, via London, May 31 The fol.
lowing statement vvas Issued here to
night .
A German submarine icrentl) re
turned from an enterprise in the At
lantic, where II citileaviired, near
Onrtssant, to hold up by a warning
sliol a freight steamer of 3,000 tons
which bore no neutral marks. There,
upon the vessel tiled from a 5 centl.
meter gun. The submarine reached
safety and later ellel not succeed In
approaching the ves-d.
On tli following day t lie submarine
followed a larger vessel ami fired a
shot at Ions range to arrest the
steamer This vessel fired from a
twelve or thirteen centimeter gun.
The submarine again reached safety,
ORKAT IIKAIt M'ltlMi WATER.
fr the cue of ! flax stoppertd bottlesv
Atv. . .
URGED TO
GEN. OBREGON
Villa Ahumada. It has no railroad. It
Is one nf the most vital nolnte In the
Perhlng cxpr-lltlon southernmost line of I
ommunli'atlou, A sudden foray at this1
IMjlnt by a superior number of Mexicans
would. If stii'eiKsful, cut the American
line of communications In two and leave ,
Hie Namlqulpa base cut off fiom the
' bolder. ,
1 Without foinniuiiii'atlons b.v rail or
wile the Isolated American forces might
find theinselvi's seriously emba trussed
I In such an event as a bleak in the long
j line, behind them Protestation, ellplo
matlc ami pei,oiial, by Mexican tepre-
seiitatlves against the possibility of such '
, an oe'cui fence cannot be- e'ounted upon,
1 Is the belief of those who have had per
sonal e xperience with the extent of the
I'onttol which the eilticlals boast of hav
ing over the detached units that leprc
sent the army of Carranza.
When the Pershing expedition biought
artillery Into Mexico the native officials
openly characterized It as an evidence
j of Insincerity of purpose on the ground
that cannon were untiecssaty In the pui-
suii oi iianuils.
Artlller) nt Iloriler.
A man acquainted with the number
of cannon available to the Mexican
forces told me to-day that it would
be safe to estimate that more than
half of the artillery at Gen. Obregon's
.command Is now stationed along the
Mexican National Railroad, paralleling
tlu American line of communications.
Newspaper correspondents and photog
raphers who have asked Gen. Gavira i
wnnin the last week for passpoits to go
to Villa Ahumada or other points of the
Mexican mobilization between Juarez
.Hid Chihuahua have been refused with
the statement that the Mexican Govern
ment doin not wish to permit Americana
to place thctnielvcs lu danger of attack
by bandits.
This fact and the evident attempt of
Mexican authorities to maintain secrecy
over movement along that 50o mile
stretch of all important railroad tracks
have given rise to the belief that things
ate happening- along that line which the
Mexicans do not want Washington to
know until the time la ripe.
! SHARPNESS OF NOTE
' SHOCKS MEXICO CITY
Full Text of Note Published
Offer I'. S. Withdrawal
or Fijrht.
THIt'KKItY IS (IIAUOKO
'ii-, .i' v,iiu le.i.fr. A to Tin m v
Mixiim City, M.i) 31 The public
aw eiKe as fiom ,i dream this afternoon
when all the newspapers e-ame out
w-:tli extras, announcing the deliver)
vesl.-iila) of e'arranza's note In Wash
ington, and giving the full text thereof.
elieat surprise Is being manifest.. d i
over tile extreme tlt'lulle'SK Of the note '
and the' statement that Carranza's force i
In the north will be obliged to defend '
themselves if the Ameili'ati original puni
tive expedition remains and that no
basis for a settlement of the conlliet
Will be accepted I'Xl'ept absolute retire
ment of the 1'iilii-d States trisip.
ttentlon also was e-nlled to an officlnl
statement that diplomatic euphemism be
put aside and frankness be adopted fol
lowed by the declaration that the bringing
of ltifantr) and mtlllery by the original
punitive I'Xpeilltioti either meant an in
sult to the Mexb an authorities, supposing
tlii tn capable of felony against the Ameri
can forces entering to pursue the com
mon enemy nnd trusting In their friend
ship "The infantry and urtilbry really
wen, brought in to repel attacks of Cat
rana forces or a di-llberatn mcve to
Invade Mexico, since Infantry and artil
lery wete unnecessary to pursue Villa," '
says the statenie lit.
Intense niprlse nlso was cnusid by n
drastic statement that the Culled Statist
"lias f,ip some tlnm been committing
divers acts w hlch not only did not lend any
assistance to the labor of the nacltleM
tton of Mexico, but on the central)- seems
lo put all po-slble olistacles In the way
oi this being carried out. without men
tioning th" great number of diplomatic
tepreseiilntl'ins which under the pretext
of protection to American Interests estab
lished In Mexico, constantly embarrass
the labor of the new government In Its at
tempts to reorganize the iwlttlr.it, social
nnd economic i-ondltlons in the country
upon new base.s
"Theo facts," Hie note says, "make
plain the Influence of the American Gov
ernment against the consolidation of the
present Mexican Government " The
note's statement that Gen. Scott nnd the
Amerle-nn Slate Department decided to
support Villa nnd prolonged civil strife
In Mexico several months, also causes
comment.
The public considers tint C.irrnnra's
note does not mince words m qualifying
Hie actions of the American Government
and forcing the Fulled States to retire
the troops or bring on a war.
The public's surprise and Intense n
terest cm lnrdly be called excitement,
Inn rather unexpected precipitation of a
crisis, howe ver This will be cleans! by
; the withdrawal of the American troops.
i-.irranr.i isnueu a necree to night for
bidding banks, commercial houses nnd
private parties from hit) ing or selling
gold, foreign bills or drafts
$3,000,000,000 FOR GERMANY.
lam ii nil! to He Presentee! In the
HeiebsinB Neil Week.
vneiiil t iM Drxvntch lo Inr. Srx
CepaNttAcrs-, vin 1ondon, May 31.
Despatches from Herlln state that the
bill authorizing the new war loan will
!e submitted in the Reichstag next
w e l
TUii loan will amount to 12,000,000 ooo
maiks 1 $3,000,000,000)
PRICeJv( CENTS.
Continued Presence "Will
lie lioarded, He Says,
ns Unfriendly.
HEADY TO PROTECT
MEXICAN TERRITORY
Wilson. Scott, and Fnnston
Accused of Breaking
Promises.
DOI RTS (J00J) FAITH
OF TINS (J0YKRX3IEXT
ExjircsM's Fear That U. S.
Is Actually Prepari'iip:
for War.
Wasiiimiton, May 31. Dciiiuiidlui;
that the I'lilteM Slates consent tn an
immediate withdrawal of Its forces
from Mexico In the Interest of con
tlnued harmony and good re-latlonship
between the two countries and that It
make known in eatcgorlcal fashion Its
Intentions with respect to Mexico, a
new mm. f,,,,,, ,. Carranza Govern
meut was piis..ui,., .,, tik. .s,.lU, De.
Puttimnt to-day by i;,.0 Arndondo,
Mexican Ambassador Designate to the
I'nlteel Stales.
In many Hspects the communication
i-s -me of the sharpest ever received hy
one Gove'tiimi'iit front unotlier. Al
though not an ultimatum In the strict
sen.se of the word, It charges that the
continued presence of the American
troops lp Mexico cannot bo regarded
as other than unfriendly and would
Justify the -Mexican Government in
taking steps for the protection of Un
territory. However, It nays the pur
pose of Mexico is to nvoid war with the.
I'niteU Stales if possible.
The note necusc.s the American Gov
ernment nf bad faith ;,nd charges
l'resldent Wll.-ou win, permitting to
s'xlst a state of affairs that la grossly
Inconsistent with his repeated pro
testations of good vvi.l toward Mexico,
it accuses tit-us. Scott and rUnaton
with having failed to keep promisee
sild to have been made to Gen. Obre
gon that a new expedition would not
is- sent in pursuit of tho (JUqiu Springs
raiders und that the Pershing expedi
Hon would be withdrawn.
DUcns.e Political Aspect.
It discusses ti.e possibility that th
1 resident may be. keeping the troop
In Mexico for political reasons, but
challenges the assumption that such
e onslderatloiis would Justify the Amcr-
...ui viiiviTiiineiii in continuing to vio
late' the soveielgniy of Mi'Xlco.
With regard to the refusal of th
I nited States to permit uny shipment
of arms to the de facto Government of
Mexico, the nut,, alludes to tho tremen
dous trade which tin, United State
nevertheless i-onHnucs to enjoy In sell
ing arms and ammunition to the bellig
erents of Kurope The only explana
tion for such Imsinsistency, the notei ob
serves, Is the po-elblllty that tho United
State's is llfttlallv-
- " - ..... "l wi
with Mexico despite Its protest of friend
ship. t Itemarklng on tim failure of th
I'nlted States to aid the Carranza Gov
ernment In Its efforts to restore pcaco In
Mexico Hi ll.itn ...f...u ... . U - I
rlod during which the State Department
s.i'c irieinny incourngement to th
same X'llla who is held to be rreponel.
hie for the t event bandit raids aca-oss
the liorder.
Th note', which is twenty-seven type
written pages in length, was presented
personally to Acting Secretary Polk at
10 ei'eiock this morning It was In
s'pantsh and was signed with tho auto
grapli signature ,,r Gen Candldo
Agullar. Scret.uy fr Foielgn Affair
of Mexico.
The Dep u lluenfs 'ransiators spent
the entire ebiy putting it Into HngliFh In
order that tun President might have op
portunlt) to examine i n.-mght. It was
sent to Hi" liisldei t al 7 o'clock
i'rooii. re to lleinnln,
H was authoritatively stated In id
mlnlslratlve . lnies to-ulght following
the reading of Hie note by the President
that there would be "no change In pol
icy" and that tho troops would remain
until Btich time as Hi,. President was
convinced that their mission had been
satisfactorily accomplished
Fp to a late- hour llm Administration
had taken no steps to increase tho forces
along the border or In Mexico, although
to-day Gin, Funs ton asked for and ob
mined permission to move batteries K
and V of the Sixth Field Artillery, re
spectively at Uiredo, Tex , and F.ngle
Pass, Tex., to Douglas as part of a
gradual concentration of tho six 1i.it
lerles of this regiment al that place
Should trouble seriously threaten hi ii
result of the note it Is thought probable
the President would call lor mare Na
tlonal Guard olg wlzntinn nml direct it
War Department to draw on more of H'e
coast artillery Secretary of War Halo"
who haH been pUMdlng over the Demo
cratic State convention at Columbus
Ohio, I expecte'd hack in the next day or
two.
In somn official quarters the Inclina
tion Is to regard tint new note aa In
tended principally for home consumption
In Mexico.
Although Mr Arredondo as late ns 11
o'clock last night denied the existence of
a note and Insisted that no communica
tion of nny kind had been brought to
Washington by Manuel Mendez, Chief of
Protocol eif the Mexican Foreign Ofilco,
he ndmtlted to-day that Mr Mendfi had
brought a note, but with Instructions
