(-?
.(.
u
NIGHT
EXTRA
VOL. H.-NO- 224-
'KINANGIAL EDITION
Queuing
feftner
PHILADELPHIA, THURSDAY, JUNE I, 191G;
Corinianr, 1910, st xm rcsua Lrxoa Commmt.
?a
NIGHT
EXTRA
PRIOJD OHSGEJfT
PROCESSION OF GRADUATES IN 31ST ANNUAL BRYN MAWR COMMENCEMENT
Wy t A W A .....i .,.; -mi'i ;' jTwWllt' 'fW1Wwi hjyy -JJ yy ywy.' -ffv..4wwww nw -a"-- hi-w..1j1i.'vwm y-rtyv.ft-yn v "W.'iXy j-wy. V'ww-.. . ..- v-iM.Ait(.,
..i SArfN V- -v - ' W - --v. '- - . , -A i
,'
A.. - - t , " r- :
mi ilU iillMI'lll " MMtlMIMIIMMfcM iJIIMtttM MM 1 1 SSsaft si tsssss. s" H 1" Mint HanfaMliU !! "- -1-- II lilHI I II I I Ill Mill HMIll ! ' 1 I IIMJil K$
mBV0iJBBaaBWBamvanpSMZM-B ' -vjs2BEPHisa e
Ut.4v-'.v..:..-.tt.&.'M.v...v.4v. ......
Photo by rivr.xlNO I.rxiicn Stiff Photogrnpher.
jDlghty-ono young women received diplomas at the commencement exercises at Bryn Mawr today. The photograph shows the graduates on their way
. to the exercises. The insert is Miss Constanco Kellen,- president of the 1910 class.
18 BILLS TO AID
"TRANSIT WORK AND
OTHER PROJECTS
Measures Will Be Passed by
Middle of July Include
Art Museum
U. S. WILL FLATLY
REJECT CARRANZA
RECALL DEMANDS
White House Announces
Stand on Continuing
Hunt in Mexico
DOWNTOWN TO GET SHARE
Important steps toward acquiring the
much "needed Improvements In tho way of
transit; and port facilities and for other
municipal dcv6lopments woro taken this
afternoon when" US appropriation bills" were
Introduced In Councils. They cover a
variety of needs and will bo passed about
tho middle of July after the passage of tho.
loan blls, approvea Dy me peopio ai me
palmary 'election.
The bills 'appropriated all tho money for'
transit apd port nnd approximately 527,
0QO;009 of tho '43,060,797 general loan;
The' ..neasur.ea wire Introduced, by Chairman,
Gaffncy, of the. Finance Committee,' nffeVa".
,- ojr'ho'yariauflyeparjtipcnta;- - V VV
All wercT referred to the Flna'n'coi Commit
tee, , . ., '
Anro.nB-ilSo-ordlnahiea were, two .transit
bllla. :Tha. first' of these appropriates $57,
IdO.OO to Hie. Dopartmsnt pC City Transit
and provides that-oify jsurplus ,or balances
aftcr,.tho completion' of any line shall be
applied to' 'other Items where" the money
Is n it y.tfllclent. Tho second' bill authorizes
Plreclv.- Twinlner to enter Into, ' coptpict
for the work. "
Po'ur pills dealt with appropriations, to,
thtf Departrntnt of 'Wlmrves, Docks -,'and
SetrUsi- Of course, "tljero la an Item' of
$S.tMCU25 out of the eeneral loan for the
jemb'al of erado crossings In South Phila
delphia. -
- Two bills, authorized the condemnation of.
propertJ' on the Delaware Illvcr at the foot
of Wolf and, PJt.ner streets In the 39th, 4th.
and, 6th wards, to be taken , ,for new
wharrvs. Another' ordinance pfo.v'Jded'. for
nn "appropriation of 510,000,000 for general
Improvements 7of the port.
Kt fourth, bill for this department pro
vided' for; whor( and ncK construction "at
the foot of Cherry, JKerillworth and Porter
AtreettJ, Tmproveineht!''f- the' dlty wharf
M' Penh Trettty PaJ-k and"Bridgo street
were-alao Included lrlthlahjll.
pn.OVISIP FOIt IJUWCHBA'D.
Provision was atyomade in this ordinance
for-.tiulHVieadlne tho Schuylkill Jllver; ' t
T)ire ere two. bills providing '?2,i60, 000
toward , the construction of a ' convention
Ati ort roujeum l( provided "fer by an
appropriation of ?i,opo,ooo. , .
hf ,anliror)rlRtl9) it 1250,000 was prtf
iflded "foi' th Board ;of Itecreatlqn for the.
iiuprove.pint of Ji'ttyr0und centres.
11,000,000 FR-"SBWBRa.
Therei were Ave bllfe carrying appropria
tions to the Departroerit' ,of I'ublla works.
Including' t,000;o00 tfor sowers. J100.000
top the Jmprpverncnttfto City Hall and
$535,000 for Improvement df the city water
supply. t
. The acquiring of iVoperty and' th cost
of- a sewage dlsposa plant was provided,
forlrj an appropriation of 3,300.0PO. .
fftr the resurfaclng'and gradlnggf high
ways arid JmprovementVpf League Island
;Park an appropriation vt 3.1QO(000 ,was
provided, . . i , ' ,
There were three hills to the City Treds.
urera department. These; Drovlded 2B0.
000 to- pay clajrns mder the Workmeri5,
umyjisunon acj, ,sso,uui ror grade
crosalps connected with condemnation pro
ceedlngs. For the tondemrmtloiv1 of land?
for park purposes, ?f 10,776 as'.provlded.
THB WEATHfR
Again the good oldiday's of June and va
catlonttlmo are wlthlus. The Mayes ore'
murmuring on, the fandy. shpre xnd the
piny breezes are (iafllng from th, moun
tain topsi vfhll bj-ool ca(ter pvei. mossy
tones and the Jianeybtes zigzag In the sun-
llBhfc -119 a very Jnvltlng. No, Matter
rwhre you tur.n tnejlure pt vaca.tbn fa
there. But there. mUft be oomethlnir'mora
than' a lure sometfing more tajigftte,
more practical. Lurej don't pay carta;.
What Is so rare is a day-In Junef
i J Jn June. j j f
For Philadelphia (W 'vicinity-. Fqiti
tanighti Friday tnerktaitfa oloudlmaa;
tlirtula rising temptratuTQ: Unfit van.
,- t , . -T - .
aew ?w
WILL REPLY TO NOTE
WASHINGTON, June 1. Official an
nouncement was made at tho 'White House
today that President" Wilson, after' reading
Carrnnza's note, decided that .the American
farces could not , bo' withdrawn from Mexico
at this time. ,
It was 'further stated' that a note to this
effect, . with tho. reasons, for 'the decision
will besent to tho Carranza, Government
shortly, -
AVlilto House, officials explained that the
President decided thatthe object of, the.
ZQaTANpmxmu
TtlVT f tm.TlKn-.TJnalr. !Hn.f7 Mntsinlnn
k. ooa No. 1242 (15)1 Uwr No. SI tot
(21 al, l yilaabU paMJirana bUU sjaiiuni.
cw t Lut 11 Jjbrl MwariJ. jTJ. pj.
PJAMQNP, brsceliuvrrU'c wco, lt "btwB
IC r(rtura
Turned to J A BfIBJ,
t:,tg:tgmi
uuw i?t huw yua i
Jl 8, SIM: .
(Jut
llrit:
I tllj$ is v.&.bne iMe- 'AjifeHca'ii',iorrcea wl'l ' not
The nolo to be sent to Carranza, It was
stated, will emphasize that thls 'Oqven-J
ment. nas no mionpr motives in Keeping
Its forces on Mexican Boll. Jt will' plainly
' state that the sole object of the 'expedition;
, . ,.a...MMn m.ftl......... MM n n.. n ,1,.
la,' accomplished the troops will be , wlth
drawn..
Tho "note also will make It very plain th'at
IC the da facto Qoyernment employs ts
troops' in runntnfe down the bandits, the. stay
of 'the1 American troops thus will be neces-
&arllv shortened.
Carranza's attention' to rnlsstatements of
fact about tho "Mexican- Situation, contained,1
In his wlthdriHaJ .'demands. V '
Several days are expected to 'elapse be-i
fore this Government .malojs a reply. ThS-'
note wilt be formally tulteri up 'at tlie,
regular Cabinet mcetlns tomorrow. j
What Is' feared here, mda't ls.,that while
Carranza's nolo Is. being Considered sonia'
overt act may be committed! by one'.'of.'the
Mexican military commanders. A majority
of tho leaders now at the head of troop's, jn
northern .Moxlco are Jtriown as -"gringo
haters."". They would welcome a. move 'by
the ""Carranza 'iGovernm'e'nt ' to expel the
American forces from Mexico by force., Ttt
Is feared that they may attempt to prp.vpK
such a, move by attacking an Amerlcatf.
force. Such an attack It Is declared hire";
would throw the two ..countries nto-wartat'
nnoal '
,.ite Department ofilc'lftla.; wejre" p.lalnly1
angerea ai mq inoiem (one) ot yie .tnrrarip.
note. This feeling of reserittnjmtJs.tbVpuettf;
about riot' Iek.s by the threat of iii attack
upon the' American forces than by the-Imputation
of bad, faith to Major General Hugh'
U 'Scott, chlefiof staff of the Army. In Ills
,conerences vjtli General Obregon Carran
ra'a Mfnlsterjif War, '
At the War'Pepartinent' It was reiterated
WAGE ADVANCES
MAKE MEN LAZY,
SAY EMPLOYERS
Federal Agents Told Pay Is
Abnormally High and
Is Not Earned
READJUSTMENT NEEDED
Men Paid More Work Less,
Says Federal Agent Here
Philadelphia Federal Reserve
ajrent, after investigating: labor con
ditions, says that .
.Greatcconomic loss to the country
followed "Tvago increases.
Employes nrf working four and
five days instead of six.
Pro'ductfori. isvheinir scrimmlv nir.
-tniledif".' . J " .j ' J..'')A'"'teJfc,
;D, 'nnrftiIcjftito'r grflsp-Sifg1"
r.greatsf opportunity; ' -'---
', Pfices-raU8t.bo increased -
A fundamental changcirt tho -relations"
between' capital and libor will
followa returil fc normal conditions.
Labor will bo .responsible' for what,
follows.
ANTI-HUGHES MEN
PLAN UNION TO
BURST HIS BOOM
Hitchcock's Methods Serv
ing to Combine Standpat
ters and Rooseveltians
COLONEL A CANDIDATE
QUICK NEWS
NORSE STEAMSHIP SUNK 5 CREW SAVED
i '
, .riONDPN, June l.Thd tiorveglnii ntcamshlp Eauina, 0047 tono,
of, Bergen, 1ms been' sunk by 'nomine or submarine. The ciew was
saved. ' j,,
OTTO KNABE RELEASED DY PIRATES
P1T1SBURGH, Pn June 1. Oto Knabc, 'fcnncriy"'of the Phlla-
dr.lplilu National X,tnguc Club niul Inter malinger cf llui Xaltlmoic
Fttlti, wan Iodny trlvcn his unsoudiliotiul release by lVoalUcnt Barney
UreyfusH of the Pittsburgh. Pirates.
f
BFXMONT JJ.ACirfO PESVT,TS
1'lrBt thec, The, Wentbury Jltm-l'.f.v. 3-V"r-H'r. i-.''t'i ""'''i
atitlft-J, S 1-3 fui'loagfi stra'trh OIlJ'c 1JS. Oitnr. fwa, -) f 1-rtiv
ouVwouj WhlniFcy. 107, Ttpllii. 16 ta S, even Mid 10 in 3. occur.!;
yMarso Henry," 1 16, Alien, even, 1 to -1 and out, third. TVnic, 1:05 35.
MONTREAL RACING RESULTS
i
iriit rnw, 15G00, 8-year-olds maidens. 5 furlongo Idolita, 10."
.rnid, $0.00, $2.80 r.iul $2.70. won; Wallatrtct, 103, Pauiujrlop.
$2.G0 niul 2.60, iircuml; Jim Hulchj 103, AuUeroon, $3.10, thtrtl
Ximc, 1:05. ,
Second race puifce .'prlOO, 3-yenr-oldu' nnd up, selling. 6 tui longs
Quid A'una, liii, Molt, $.?.c.O, jyi.lO and 53.C0, won; Le'.ioafc, iu(
Dodd, ilO.SO 'nn:l $5, uecend"; UaireUc, HO, Acton',. $6.30, ili.u
Time, 1:17 1-D.r . . . A . ' '".'.. ,
By PERRY ARNOLD
CHICAGO, Juno 1. -The campaign of
Frn.nk H.. HltchcOck for Justice Charles E.
Hughe;) appeared todny to hnvo united tlie
antl-IIuglies elements In the Btarid-pat Re
publican ranks with tho Hosovclt. Itepuhll
cans In a concerted attack on Hughes, with
a -possible, agreement on lloosevclt In tho
ofllnfr.
Around 'candidates' row nt the hdtcls to
day there was every Indication that a com
bine against Hughes Is under way,
'i iiti Biiuuugjj,
blUby the., a
ConllnutiJ jon ri Fire; Pf loina Two
Serious economic loss and a situation'
which will force a, readjustment of the'
present relations between capital and .la'bor
.have "resulted in Jhe "United Stales, as n
consenuenca .of the cenoral waira Jncrea'ae'si
.granted bVmployers. That Is tho' coheni-
aion nrawn oy ino caerai reserve Ktnts
.frbrn' reports pf a general InVeatrgatlobIrit'o.
jportSj were" made public to'daj;, " ,
"JQofh skilled and. unskilled laVo?' have
.been scarce for some time." says tha.reDort
.lof nichard L, Austin, idorai .Reserve
JVgent lh this city, '"arid' In' many lines of
Industry wages hayo' increased again until
they are abnormally high.
There Is almost ,' universal complaint,
however, that as wages are Increased a
large class of wage, earners become lees
productive, and the .failure .of Industrial
plants to mako BUfflcltnt or reasonable, out-,
pui ib preventing inovreanzauon or muon,
If any, profit from, operations. The atti
tude of .such .wage, earners Is disappointing.
Instead of taking "advitritage of the present
wonderful opportunity to make large earn
ings, they,,ara apparently not netting rnuch
more than formerly, when wages 'we're
much lowe.r; the. cost of living for 'them,
as for others Js much higher' and the -whole
country lssufferljig "ft great economic Joss
through thq failure of our industrial es
tablishments' to 'produce the volume of
goods fqcytycrj there 'a at present so great
a demand,", - ' ',,
"Thesltuayori Vlth many manufacturers,
Continued in face Two, Column- Flio
situation."
'The' arrival here of Senator ' Boles 'Pen
rosei of Pennsylvania, 'was. anxiously
awattedv There,', was an undercurrent of
'feeling that Penrose, oven more than Barnes,
.holds: the" situation, in his hapds, -If he
Jumps to Iloofevolt, as" Jt has bfen rumored
he would, thd battle Is over, pplltlcJaps
say.; if he fights against the Colonel, then'
it la a free-for-all, -
Barnes. Qn urriyal, was planning to Jump"
.liito tho thlclt of the fray this afternoon,
announcing that he was going to 1ho eotp-'
mltee meetlnrat the Colfseum.
"I -won't say anything now." he snapped,
"ilaybe. I'll talk later." - .
.COLOffEtc .R13ADY T.O "CO-OPERATE."
Roosevelt himself l ready, to co-operate
wljli or;' oria vho laifor hlnv. This, was
emphasised today by;john- Ilcqrath, .the
Colonel'B private secretary, Who' reached
Chicago, today after .accompanying the" Col
onel on his trip to St.'itioijls. '' '.,'1
''I nin rrfe'rcly. here.to'c6-operale .with all
persons or whatoyer 'party supports Roose
yelCMirearath' saidi ' '
"Is, Roqeevcl( . n, caridldato?" HcQrath
was Bkcd.
'"Most assuvedly. he Is." he replied.
There was rt pronounced feeling tpday
that nothing would htm, the breach be
tween Rcpseyelt and the Old Cuard mar
quickly than.'Hltchcock'fl efforts for Jliigheftf
y BRITAIN SEIZES MORE U. S. MAIL
BERLIN, June 1. The Danish steamship United States, which eallea from
Now York on May 20, has been taken Into Kirkwall by a British warship and nil
hor American malls seized, says the Overseas News Agency. A dispatch from Tho
Hague to tho Overseas News Agency states that the Butch steamships' "vv"esterd'yko
and hyndanr were hold up by British -warships and all the United States malls
seized.
PENROSE OFF FOR CHICAGO THIS AFTERNOON
Sepator Penrose, accompanied by.lilas8ore'tary,. -will leave "North .Philadelphia;
atlon; howovor. was muddled .nl.. Sepator Penrose, accompanied byihlaseoi
a"rrIvriI..tflnv'f.;wtril'ViFi!iT?.JU ptiA-j'W"i.'ji,Ati.'t'i'.c'i.4i,iS .'... .i.'T.i,nV,...; itl,oi r.V.n('lnn' -
'Barnes, It is saldj may hold tbtfkar u the 'MF . KAISER" HONFteRS WITH-'SPANIfirT ffliTOY.
-11 ' " ..' V . ....'i. . .1 1 i ..' . - 1 ' .1
1 . KAISER CONFERS WITH 'SPANISH! ENV0
f-f BERLIN,. JilheM.t Emperor" "William has returned to Berlin from Gcrmalt -Great'
tT.?J ..-A ,!-. t. j ' t ..-. -... .. ,. ... 'j.' -.- J.
icuuimurici-a., io' neia a comcrcnca wun xno; opunian .Amoassaaor, ir. t-010 uo
ernape, miring- xpe morning. . ,
and delegates It was slated,
It was rumdred today that
Coleman
duPopt.of Delaware. -would withdraw from
tho race In. fM.yor pf Justice Hughes, swing
ing six fielawar&tdelega,tes to the Hughes
column. . j. " V.y
Georae" W. PerSlns brought the olive
branch to 'th'anepuhUpaii party again to
day. The Bull -lopse chleftalpj after
. ' 1. "' i -
ContInue4t;rme Two, Column Two
"W; 80,000 SYRIANS PERISH OF HUNGER
"' "WASHINGTON June 1, Eighty thousand women, children arid men have
perished of hunger In the little Syrian State of Mount'Xebanon, President "Wilson
.was .toicl today .by K. El-Aewad, who headed, o delegatlpn representing Syrians In
America, wlfd'Tyarit to devise a way to ship food Intothe, devastated "country'
, . . ,. Ttt
2531 KILLED ON IT. S. RAILROADSHrN THREE MONTHS
CRITICS REBUKED
AT GRADUATION B
BRYN MAWR HEAD
Closet Skeletons Made to
Stalk Abroad, Says Presi
dent Thomas
HERSELF A SACRIFICES
Heaps Coals of Firo on Hor De
nunciatorsStorm of Ap
plause Greets Her
iADSKr1!
I llyo .liundre
WASHINXITON. June 1. Two thousand llyo .Hundred and vthlrty-ono persona
vero killed-and H3,6J8 Injured In railroad accidents' fit tho United, States during the
three months ending September 30, 1916, "accordlngTto a report of - the"? Interstate
uuminerce commission loaay. xnw was a decrease lor ill Kllieq nna asaT injurea
over the' corresponding period In 19l4. V'l
ANTHRACITE CASE REHEARING DENIED
"WASHINGTON, JUho 1. The ' Interstato Com'mdVce. Commission today denied
a rehearing of the anthracite coal casa decided Juno, 30, 1916, In which tho com
mlS8l6n-rilerod,a general reduction of rates on dntfcraclte throughout tho 'Penn
sylvania mining district.- '
WOMAN CAPTURED HEjlEJ
F0RNEWBBKMURDER
Accused of Slaying Man Two
, and a Half Yars Ago in '
a gU-eet Fight
1 - V
-1 , , r
Search extending, oyer two apd jone-half
years for a wjpman uqder Indictment in! a.
New York murder case' ended in this olljr
today- In ihe arrest of Anna 'Brltt, alwj
known, as Anna Stone, Jn a lodging house
atis;hlahd Wallace streets. Detectives Bel.
shaw, Tirnlln and Krse made the capture
"after several days of quiet Investigation.
Detective Landove, pf the New York de-"
pirtmeilt. .completed" thework of thet local
'detectives ,by Identifying the prisoner this
'njornlngr at pity Hallt and she will be taken
td that sjty (or trial.
The murder 'or which Anna Brltt. who
la SI years old. Is under indictment was
the killing of Frederick Strauss on Janu
ary 29, 1?U.' On, that 4ay a free- fight of
Jews and Italians was In progress at, St.
Mark's olace'and 3d avenue. Strauss -was
shot through the head. He was not a. pari
tlclpant in me nsnv, uio. punto pur- i
according to th detectives, disappeared frt
the nme v no nau7' "u iimi?. v
days ago, when ,C3ptatn Ttte receive word
tkat she. was-in this city.
- '
Wife Puns Away 5 Times j Js. IJome
BA.YOJTNE. N. J June J.; AtVer five
ytarlof dtubatjoo. Jonn BokjiMky. ftlS?
H fHWpilie4 in yjft'ollc that his wtfa,
li4 U max tor na na upm ij.r? 7taF
ot hikVal '"K'i lm ft4 that bft li lraoiv
mm a.wy i t wf ofwf i.
." Uv itW. "I'm. Blil ' IM.
1-a IwfV laSo, i fca? but tthr." t Mr,
'TMGLA'SAYSWAITE
ASiHE HEARS DOOM
J!
-K
Poisoner Oalrg When Court Sen
' tericep pint toDie During
,W.eokf6f July 10
.'Nim yPRK. June'!. X)r. Arthur "War
ren Waltewas .today sentenced to die In'
the. olesttiaiShair aOSlng.JUpg prlsortljiur
InJhe week, beginning JOly .10.
tie received, hia ilegth' sentence for the
murder.of John B. Peck, his father-ln-Iaw.
in the same Unflinching manner In which
ie heard trie jury's verdict of guilty.
The Condemned, manmada a dramatic
speech In court.
; "t am glad -very, very glad- that X can
give my boy In expiation In some .small
way of the things thatj have done," he
said, "I regret that I have nothing more
than uiy body that I can ,'giye ani I hope
nd I also freely gtya my soul for the same
purpose and I hope, that. H.may go on and
erve forever yi'apy way that there may
h before It to jpurge Itself. '"
. " would like tti say tij.t I want to
thank' this Court .for- the, ffaln arid Sust
trla.1 that was ccVrded to mej that is all
I have, to say." , , - tf ,
An soon as Walle had itfiUhed. -'Justice
Shcarrj pronounced fentncMVaItcr R.
flual, W.alty. counsel, madf thft1 usual
formal motions for.aThew tfla and 'for a
fllerotesal. He" bJ-r;ojeiiied i&ylndtlco f
POa)t yut1 vrJil'dji o wlthl,r,vAe te days'
limit . , - f
Buns $p Auto "Ijjtp SterWoF
thaa r8,4w. A
t-jaap.y mi
wwrfs&m
WSSflili BflhlFaUtj? llil.
"fefliutliSnit U76
mikf
SENATE WIEDrVOTE
, ONBRANDEISTDAY
. " ;
Hi Confirnitttioh as Supreme
.Court Justice onfidentv Pre
, dieted by Hjs Supporters
,' WASHINGTON, pne 1 T(w Senate
today wl yr(e the. last chapter in tfie
eon'rSXefSy Jive.rr President WilsSh'a nom
naton of louia p. Rrandels.-to the Su
lirenie Cqurt bench. At 4:85 ffcloclj this
afternoon.' the Senate will go jlnto ' execus
tlVe .MWlon, recelye the majority ond
minority - report?' op BrandeW from the
Judiciary Committee and then. vgte. ini
dlcatlons ars that' the whoU", proceed Inff
will notlast more than 15 minute and that
Brandels -will be confirmed by about a
dfczen votes.
The scheme to dispose pf the isase with,
out h roll call to save campaigning Sena
tors, the political embarrassment of their
record .on' the confirmation wlU' he turned
down,. Brndes' sUpportera declared they
would, insist uppn a roll .call to be nioTde
nublla after the session in ord that tha
country might see where every Senator?
stood, . ...
s 0,
.r
SWJSL G. BLYIE
')' ' YiU Report Both'-
JSfailonal Copvett$ioH8
E mniiffi Mb iijmer
v ,u, .; r. - 1
PRESIIIRNT TO ATTT3ND ANNAPOT-IW PnnTMRMPRAlRMT
T -i,T.7"T - ' , r- '- -,-.---. w--w ww. --.w--,.. .
WAHlNaTO', Jifne 1, President "Wilson, will' go, dpwh tp 'Annapolis' 'tonight
ohtbeyacht.Mayfiower to attend tho graduation exercises tomorrow at the Nayal
Academy, Ho will present tle diplomas and may'speak briefly, ;
" : : i '
... , germany;to ask $2,400,0.00,000 credit .-. . .
bBRlilN, J.unB l.-TheReichslaff will bo aake'4' tp vote (i new credit' ot bout
jS.iOOOO.'uOO at' a special rneetlng- In-mldsummef.'T.trie Vosslsclfe Zeltunp; reports.
Thtf last, credit voted by the Reichstag will do for the next month.
...': .' ' 'T- 3 '"'''.-
GERARD .TOLD-PF POLISH RELIEJe: PLAN'S REJECTION
BERLIN, June 'Lrr-Germany will not accept qreat Britain's counter-proposals
for the relief QfFpUWHJ. This deqlslop, which had been expected, was -reached ata
conferepce at thie, 'American .Enjbassy yesterday attegded by Ambassador oVrard, Dr.
Theodor Iwald, Director of the Alinl.siry ot the Interior; Prtnqp .ubeckl, the Polish
leadel-.iapa. representatives cf the Ro'okefeller Commlssloq, Vtfh British proposals
werofoupa tobe lnaoceptablo lo tfermany largely pv account' of the fact, that this
country larunahle to give the guarantee dernanded by GreatrBrJtatn for- the Blmul'
trpeoua jeedlne;'.of Serbia, Montenegro And the Beotioji'of Pojand cjccypled by Austria
as p, condition for permlttlnt' food for Poland to passT the British, blockade. '
U, OPP, INSlfRES OPERA PERFORMANCE AGAINST RAIN
Tha lnivtrslty of Pennsylvania Is betting t35,to 2500 "that U will rain next
!.. ..Il. .l.u'li;.Ti'.Unl. ,,.....-.... . llS 111., I .... -.. ,.'-
4ucQunjLiui(k ib. wjjUtcH ,YsuiHiaiivT7 vjt wn u9 tvgu ujr jiuea, SlIlgeJTB
on FrahkIln;.Fled, The'. University. 'which Is managing-the performance has InsUreu
tho ppera for 12500 against postponement on accgunt ot rain, The" premium Is
atn,
6 tier cent, or 1125.
, PRICE OF GOAL ADVANCED lCENTSA TON
The, price pf all sjjiesi.of.coal was Increased, g cents, a on today. It Isthe first.
of fiVo. nionthly Increases, by wliich Tetall dealers "wQl bej able .'to offset"Mvinces'
JevUd'hy tjie operators a 'reimnutue- themsejyei '(orithft high cost Pt laMp and
jutterJala. Today's casli. jn-u-es'' for coal are 5.3 for pea. 17.35 for etove, 7.10 for
ess and 7.Q for nut. . J
11 1 " ' " -" 1 i'i' . " ' v
MAYOR WILL LABEL CITY'S gA.RS; NO. JOY RIDING
- -. Maye Smltli Is expeed tfi Jajue art order eHhe today qp tomprr9w reg.urlntr
all automobiles owned , by' -tha city to. be, labeled with,, the narnVt ofethe.cl'tyand'
Uureau fn letters -lhreeJlnohstj high, "Wery- rcaiikirte thMayor-wtvVicnlrf. ba.
J taken to prevent Jihe- Mf, ft th city's cars by Jpy-rldiner officials. THej rule -will' riot
Biblnson, , ,
EDWARP BOKr INDORSE ROOSEVELT
BdwardNBok, editor el the X-ilkfVIJaae, Jouraal, ha bcprot RrfgfftM
AdVlfwy Cppamlttee v t,PfefeKa-.PUsm J's. (r. -pqBlffpiffii
jt cotonti itoosw. p fjpf.1
(.Tiierti i aumutwiy -f y
Fj5 mA9 'in ' lrttw
tsr -i swl H
1 HM.t,.t, , IIHw$lm&JttmS3SV& ?
'Direct reference to the recent contro
versy at Bryn Mawr College Involving the
faculty, alumni nnd trustees, In charges of
autocratic! rule, was made today at the
commencement exorcises of jlie Institution
by President M. Carey ThomaV
Miss Thomas said:
"Wo liavo found that there were In the
college closet a wilderness of skeletons
which we never knew existed, and .hey
rlbly and clank their chains. "S f)
'The alumni, fncultv nntl n.ieinsnin
might have given us tho benefit of the
doubt, but if the offering up of the president
of the College as a sacrifice in public has
quickened tho sense of responsibility of
graduates to their alma mater, all that has
happened has been well.
SURPRISE TO ALUMNAE.
This statement came "3omewhat as a .sur
prise to the graduates and members of the
faculty, who wero assembled In the gymna
Blum, where tho commencement exercises
were held. It had been generally expected
that Miss Thomas would avoid reference
to the controversy, but she launched into
a discussion of It almost at the beginning
of her address.
At tho conclusion of her speech Miss
Thomas was applauded so loudly and for'
such a long period that she had to leave
her seat several times and bow to the audi
ence before the graduation ceremonies
could proceed.
Seventy-two members of the graduating
class, garbed In their cap's and gowns, re
ceived Jhelr Bachelor of Arts degrees from
tho hands of President Thomas at the 31st
annual commencement exercises.
In addition to tho 72 degrees awarded to
tho seniors there wero' two degrees of
Doctor of Philosophy;- awarded to Graco
Medes, of Missouri, and Marguerite "Wlll
cox, t New York, and seyen degrees of
Master pt Arts, awarded to HaVl K
Barnett, Pennsylvania ; Margaret 8. Brpd
way, Pennsylvania; Anna Haines Brown.
Philadelphia; Florence C Irish, Pennsyl
vania; Mildred Justice, Pennsylvania.;, Jlulh
C. Manchester. Connecticut, and Dorothy
V "Weston. New Yprk.
'The larce room was oacked -to the "doors
'iixpiimpf
.nMn.M ...l.t t... J.V.IH.J- !.' I. J.Zmt
uvmiu3 '.vuiu uu uyibQ.iii.icu. fl cit,, jn-vr-,. v.ryugj
.ucuiac ioua ouiDurst ,or .appiause-greetesi
her, from that section as, she stepped up to'
receive the diploma for which she had-be'w
working .for four hard years.-
The exercises opened with a national
anthem. Following came a, prayer, after
which came Introductory remarks by presi
dent Thomas. Then came, the presentation
of the degree of bachelor of arts, and then
master oi arjs, seven n nuniDer. una men
doctors' of philosophy, ,two in number. Fol
lowing the awarding of- tho degrees cams
conferring of the gntddate'-and undergrad
uate scholarships for the year of 3316-I7
and the George W. Chtlds "essay prize for
the year 1915-16. Following- came the con
ferring of- tlio European fellowships z&nd,?
resident fellowships for the year 101C-17.
Th&. students were then addressed by
President Mary Emma Woolley, of Mount
Holydke College, on "The Factdf .Life."' The
Continued on l'ace lfaur, Cblamn Tire
YOUNG WOMAN TEACHER
MOGjiSOUTiyiASHER
Two Fist Blows in Swift Suc
cession Send Him Into
, the Gutter
WEST CHESTER, Pa,. June 1. Miss
Alice' Hlbberd, of West JUner street this
place, a teacher In the' Philadelphia, publlo -schools
and' a , well-known young' womjoa
athlete, gave a young man a faceting last
plght which he will remember. ' Vu
AVheu the teacher arriyed. hero on. a train
the' mau -accosted her at the station and.
then followed' her several blocks, wheUh
made some Insulting remark; an he caUght -lier
arm. -- moment laer he regretted th
sttotC MIbs Hlbberd landed two swift
blows n, quick succession upon the coun
tenance of tha. mart and he took, quiet. rest
Irt a gutter, while she'pfocetded homeward,.
Miss Hlbberd Is being "congratulated ten
day by friends, who learned of tha' Incident.
BURNS A MORGAN EMPLOYE
Testifies He Secretly CopiciJ Letters; i
liawyer'a Ofice
" 'JEW YORK, Jupe t. William J. Burnt,
prlyato detective, today testified that as the
employe of J. p. Morgan qo .hejiSSxeUy,
ente'red the law oMlce pf peymour Sey
mour, copied, forreenondencej of the firm n4
also installed a detec.taphone.?-;HC testU
m'pny -wffly,glven Jn the wire-tapping; InyesU-.
gatlon "b'efyre. Commissioner- MjjAdoo.
' !The letters-he oppIe.d were. Identified ase.
act duplicates'- ot letters, stolen from. Jl
Morgan "oRice. ' ,
n .i)tM,jliii iin, iii in : .t-
- STILL VipptfGjORPEJ -JURY
Taking of' Actual Testirhnj- B&m
Far Oit us Court Atjouri
WAUKEQAN. lit. June l.Th lum
Moit. in rk bounty oUrt tswitlu4 wdy.
Many were, -tUwd but pon vr ots)i
."When court adjourned & j, OR f
,mwr ?8l'r,"-if?iW' if1- vwr ." ta
Uhe auegeo mttrir -til mm ssfs-uip
r" .
Ortvi amir Ckwfc "
. vwrrnmjfj--Bmaitm
mm sxemumM
IBifS&H
v --iMlHRf tJWBPtSf P
K' JHsI JUUpsuiWi"llliU
U- IM ftl&V,
MP
v-m &J,Ji.Sfc.. &
'l-'':&..:--imm
tmtcm ta j
MHM
MtfiW-j
