THE ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
SNDEPtiwEIMT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAE
10 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, THURSDAY MORNING, JUNE 1, 1916
10 PAGES
VOL. XXVII., NO. II
GERMAN-AMERICAN ALL
GUILTY OF MORAL TREASON
SKIS IT CITY
CLUB ST. LOUIS
Says Neutrality Which Al
lows Trampling On Amer
ican Rights Cannot Bo
Tolerated For Ameri
canism to the Core
Carranza Insists That American Troops Must Be Withdrawn
HE'S GOOD ENOUGH FOR ME
CANNOT JOIN WILD
MENTAL JOY RIDES
Likes Ford and Bryan, But
Not for Mental Joy Ritles
Which Be Imperative If
He Takes Ideas Seriously
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
ST. LOUIS, Mo.. May 31. Colonel
Theodore Roosevelt delivered three
speeches In St. Louis today, in which
lie advocated universal military ser
vice, declared the German-American
Alliance was guilty of moral treason
and anti-Americanism and denounced
1'resident Wilson's memorial speech as
weak. Tremendous and cheering
crowds greeted him.
Colonel Roosevelt maintained that
President Wilson used "weasel" words
which sucked the life out of his
phrases and made them meaningless.
"When Mr. Wilson speaks of 'uni
versal voluntary training.' " he assert
ed, "he draws a parallel to a truancy
law which would make universal at
tendance by children ut school obli
gatory to all except those who want
to remain away."
Mr. Roosevelt averred that he
thought well of Mr. liryan and Mr.
Ford.
"I like them in private life," he
added, "they are nice, amiable men.
But I cannot join them In any wild
mental joy rides, which is what 1
shcnild be compelled to do if 1 should
t ike their ideas seriously."
Colonel Roosevelt addressed the
largest crowd at the City club in the
afternoon, where he said that neu
trality which allowed trampling on
American rights could not be tolerated
and that there could be no Americans
who were not Americans to the core.
"I denounce the German-American
alliance with all my soul," he shouted.
"The acts of their leaders constitute
moral treason to cur government and
to our people."
Colonel Roosevelt left at 4:20 p. m.
He will speak at Newark, X. J.,
Thursday night.
Speaking before a crowded room at
the breakfast arranged for him, for
mer President Roosevelt took issue
with President Wilson's views on pre
paredness and. with his expressions in
his Memorial day address.
' The president- says he is for uni
versal voluntary service," said Colonel
Roosevelt. "That is equivalent to a
truant law that would make every
boy and girl attend school provided
they did not wish to stay away.
"I like the word 'universal' but vol
untary is n weasel word. It sucks
out the life of the other. The one
following the other means nothing.
"Mr. Wilson said the acid test was
about to be applied to :he business
men of the nation to see if they will
allow their employes to volunteer for
training. I am against that. It can
not be patriotism that asks one man
to have others prepare to do this
fighting.
"Divided patriotism is as impossible
as hyphenated citizens. I appeal to
you to prepare vonrself. Get out of
the rut of the copperhead pacifist."
Mr. Roosevelt referred to Mr. Bryan
and Mr. Ford as nice, amiable men.
"I like them in private life,'' he said.
"I wish to correct the statement, I
mean the misstatement, that this pre
paredness movement has been instl
gnted by ammunition manufacturers.
That is false. I challenge any human
being to prove that there is any con
nection. The men most concerned are
patriots and Americans, not money
seekers.
"We have had a great deal of rheto
rllt. But the American people ought
to he more careful about words. We
should remember It is our duty to use
ro word unless we mean it.
"I am not an English-American. 1
sho'ild be just as unalterably opposed
to an English-American alliance as I
am against the German-American al
liance. Whatever defense I may have
for mv attitude you can't accuse me
of pussy-footing.
"There is no place here for the
persons who want to make a polyglot
boardinghouse out of our nation.
"When I was president I was a
friend to every foreign nation. But
when It became necessary to assert
our rights I played no favorites.
"Labor councils generally have an
nounced they will not take part in
the preparedness Parades June 3. I
have veen shameful editorials uphold
ing that attitude. But when I say
universal service, that is what I refer
to. 1 do not exeect to suck the life
out of my words nor do I want any
one to consider that I shall join the
pacifists in any wild mental joy ride.
THINK BELLIGERENT
TONE OF NOTE MEANT
FOR EFFECT A T HOME
ist urn
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, May 31. General
Carranza's latest note, questioning
j the good faith of the United States
i government with a threat of armed
i resistance, demanding withdrawl of
American troops from Mexico was
j presented at the state department to
I day by Eliseo Arredondo, the Mexi
i can ambassador-designate. Tonight
i a translation of the voluminous doc
: ument, about 12,000 words long, was
laid before I 'resident Wilson,- who
at once began considering how it
should be answered. No one in of
ficial circles would attempt to fore-
ast just what course the president
: might decide upon. There was com
plete unanimity, however, in the be
lief that there would be no immediate
withdrawal of the Pershing expedi
; tion. High officials said the de facto
government so far had failed ut
terly to demonstrate its ability to
' protect the border against bandits.
and expressed the opinion that the
. troops would stay in Mexico until
i this was done.
It was suggested that the belliger
I ent and uncompromising tone as
sumed by Carranza probably was
largely for effect upon the Mexi
can people, and there was little dis
position to believe the- de facto gov
ernment actually contemplated an ef
fort to expel the American army by
force.
Mr. Arredondo left the impression
that his .chief did not expect the de
fiant words of the note to be tafcen
at their face value, when, on hand
ing the communication to acting Sec
retary Polk he gave notice that it
was not intended a.s an ultimatum
but as a continuation of the negoti
ations which have been in progress
letween the to governments.
The new note, written before the
withdrawal of the Langhorne-Sibley
expedition, which entered Mexico af
ter the Boucuillas raid, was brought
ALLEGED COUNTERFEITERS
ARE UNDER ARREST
I SAN FRANCISCO . May 31.
Four alleged counterfeiters, two
! men and their wives, were arrested I
! here today by United States spe-
I cial lgents, who seized them in
I their lair and obtained, they say,
a full confession connecting the
quartet with three other alleged j
I counterfeitexs arrested last Sunday j
I in Los Angeles. Today's arrests, I
I said the federal officers, completed !
the breaking up of a gang whose
operations on the Pacific coast j
; have teen active and extensive.
1 These arrested were: Joseph E.
! Riley, Mrs. Riley, Walter Simmois
1 anil his wife, Mrs. Grace Simmors. I
NOTE IS SENT
HE
Claims Words and Pro
testations of United States
Have Been Entirely In
Contradiction of Acts
Contains 12,000 Words
NO I EB MISSION
TO CROSS BORDER
MR SUMMARY
Charges American Troops
Crossed the Border After
Columbus Incident With
out Permission of Mexi
can Government
. Republican A. P. Leased Wire
The French troops northwest of
Verdun, in the region of Le Mort
Homme, have turned on the offensive
against the Germans and in a spirited
attack have captured a strongly or
ganized position on the slopes south
wist of le Mort Homme. Seven ma
chine guns and 225 prisoners were
taken in the attack which was the
only infantry fighting on Wednesday
reported in the latest French official
communication.
The town of Avocourt and Hill 304.
in this immediate vicinity are under
a heavy bombardment and shells. ot
large calibre are being used. Bom-
to Washington Monday by Manuel puiuments also are in progress north
Mendez, an attache of the Mexican I of Verdun, from the Meuse river to
foreign office.
Word of its coming had been re
ceived last week, but on Mendez'
arrival he insisted that he knew
nothing of the note and merely was
in the United States on a vacation
Arredondo said last night that he
had heard nothing of a note.
Today it was explained that Men
dez left Mexico City with strict in
structions to keep the purpose of his
visit secret, even from the emlwssy
here, until he had communicated
with the foreign office on reaching
j Washington. His orders to give the
I communication to Ambassador des
: ignate of the state department it
the Hartmann's
in the Vesges
Fort Vaux and in
Woilorkopf legion
mountains.
n the Asiago-Arsiero sector of
the Austro-ltalian front the Austrians
have taken additional points of vant
age from the Italians and put down
attempts by King Victor Emmanuel's
men to recover lost ground. Accord
ing to the Austrian communication
during the present offensive they
have captured 31,081 Italians and 29S
cannon. The Italian war office ad
mits the evacuation of positions at
Mont Priafora and I'unta Cordin, on
the Asiago plateaum. The lake re
gion of Dvinsk on the Russian front
was stated, did not arrive until about ; aBifin is the scene of heavy bom-
The New York Evening Mail in 1904 printed this cartoon by Homer Davenport, which interpreted the spirit of the
day so well that it became famous from Maine to California.
PHP! !PJ
l
M Zl "i C
UUUl I
I COMMITTEE TO
IT! CONTESTS TODS!
"Uncle Sam has just one friend
Uncle Sam.
In his address at the Mercantile
jelub. Colonel Roosevi It emphasised j
the reed of cooperation between busi-
"In the past," lie said, "there have !
heen two tendencies at work in Amer
ica, each harmful. There came grave
abuses due to unrestricted operations
... . . . L.
of large Business units. Then came
nhiiaev on the mM of tl.nn ivho ,tc 1
sired through governmental agencies
to end these abuses.
"More and more we have grown ,'tti
realize that we must come, partly
through governmental action ancT j si xt y -1 v.o delegates to sit in the con- Chicago.
more through social consciousness, to ! vention. The committee exacts to Resort of committee on oredentials-
lckno-.vledce on the part of the he-ids , conclude its work Saturday, so that After convention has acted on the
o( great industries that they ow a the "temuorary roll of delegates may rewrt of the committee on credentials.
be prepared. the report of the committee on per-
Four years ago the seats of nearly raiment organization will be called (ot.
I' m ma .ent organization of the con-
Republican A. P.
CHICAGO, May 31
republican national
Leased Wire Notice
Members of the commit!'
committee wi'l
meet in the Coliseum tomorrow to hear
forty contests. Involving the right of
if meeting place of
- will be announced later
Thursday, June 8
Oortvctition called to order by tern
midnight last night
Secretary Lansing who has been
absent ,from his office for a Week
on account of illness, will return to
his desk tomorrow. He is expected
ta study the note carefully In pre
paration for the cabinet meeting Fri
day. There are statements in the
communication particularly with re
gard to the agreement reached at El
Paso, whicli are in direct conflict
with General Scott's understanding
of what was included in the un
written pact.
Secretary Baker, who was absent
from the city today and General
Scott himself since his return from
Kl Paso, have declared that no lim
other jtation had been placed upon General
Funston by that agreement which
would prevent him either from send-
peiary ciiairman.
(Continued on 1'age Four)
bardments, probably due to more in
fantry fighting. Farther south on the
Volhynian front and along the Bes
sarabian border there is increased ac
tivity by the Teutons and Russians.
Petrograd reports the capture of a
Russian position in the region of
jJiaroeKr. nut says the Kussians in a
counter attack ejected the inVaders.
Nothing new has come through
concerning the invasion of Greek
Macedonia by the Bulgarians and
Germans, but in the extreme western
part of the Balkan front the Aus
trians along the Voyusa river in Al
bania have pursued Italian patrols.
The British invasion of German
Kast Africa continues. and has
reached - a strongly entrenched "Ger
man position between the Egare
mountains and the Pagni river, where
a fight seems prohale.
Prayer by Right Rev. F. C. Kelly ct
duty to the public, to those who v.oik
for them. In the government we must
feel that instead of trying to destroy ; half the delegatts in the convention
great Industries we must cordially en- ! v.er in dispute, and tile national com-
courage them and at the same time ' mittee was obliged to sit for mote than
ns far as possible see that justice is i three weeks to decide the contests,
done by them toward one anotjier, j Comparatively little interest is mani-
toward the general public and t-'V fest in the present contests, as a ma
the wage worker
"Whfn the present war is over we
shall see a new Europe and in many
ways that will lie a new world, and
v.e will be the old world. They will
have adopted many things we must
adopt because we will profit by their
experience.
"I believe most emphatically that
our end must be prcpa redness in mat
ters social and industrial, Combining
efficiency and Justice.
"It Is absolutely certain that ag
gression will be invited by the na
tion that is opulent, aggressive and
unprepared. Wo have in this country
free speech. Put the luxury of a
readv tongue rannot permanently he
enjoyed with safety by the man with
an unready band. 7 wish to see our
cation.
Address by the permanent chairman.
Report of committee on rules and
order of business, action upon which
by the convention will determine the
order ol further proceedings of the
convention.
: v. York, Illinois, Massachusetts,
Indiana and Pennsylvania delegates
'inul plans for the convention were again will occupy --eats in the front
proved b' the sitii-committee oi tne ; n.ws nearest me piauurm.
Gei H. Sheldon, treasurer of the
republican national committee and a
delegate Ironi New York, arrived today.
Pred VV. Upham, chairman of the
GERMANS WOULD REJECT HI
OF WILSON AS PEACE MEDIATOR
Jorlty Bf them are in southern slates,
and the result Is not expected seri
ously to affect the chances ot the
ii "S'idenl ial candidates.
committee on arrangements of the na
tional committee, which held Its last
meeting today. The sub-commiUee
approved the following program for the
l first two days of the convention:
Wednesday, June 7
! I committee on arrangements for
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BERLIN, 'May 30 (via London, May
31). At the session of the reicbstag
today, Dr. Gustav Stresemann, national
liberal, in an address rejected the idea
that President Wilson would be avail
able as a peace mediator.
"If you take a vote of the German
people," said Dr. Steresemann. "only a
small minority would accept President
Wilson as a mediator, after he has
rendered it possible for our enemies to
keep going in a military way by in
sharply attacked the government, ac
cusing it of weakness in dealing with
the United States. He was answered
as sharply by Dr. Karl Helfferich.
speaking for the first time as secre
tary of the interior.
Herr llirsch, national liberal, asked:
"Do you believe seriously that Pres
ident Wilson wants to do anything
favorable to Germany? You know he
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
MEXICO CITY, May 31 Claiming
that the words and protestations have
been entirely in contradiction of their
acts and that in spite of protests not
to intervene in the affairs of Mexico,
soldiers of the United 'States are in
Mexico without the consent of the
Mexican government and in violation
of Mexico's sovereignty, the Mexican
government now asks immediate with
drawal of these troops. The request la
made in a 12,000 word note made pub
lic at the foreign office today about
noon.
The note recites that the American
troops crossed the border after the
Columbus incident without the per
mission of the Mexican government.
The act was not considered one of in
vasion then solely because the United
States said they had misinterpreted
the attitude of the Mexican govern
ment. When the second expedition
crossed the line after the Glenn
Springs incident, the note maintains,
the plea that this was done with the
Consent of the Mexican consul at Del
Rio, Texas, is untenable and that the
act can only be considered as one of
invasion.
"The Mexican government therefore
invites the United States to bring to
an end this unsupportable situation, the
note concludes, "and to support its
protestations and declarations of
friendship by an immediate withdrawal
of American troops."
Maintaining that the protestations
of friendship by the United States and
the expressed desire for non-interven
tion have been contradicted by the acts
of the Washington government, the
note says the time has arrived when
Washington must declare itself clear
ly and unequivocally as to its future
intentions toward Mexico.
After reciting the facts which led to
the first crossing of the frontier by
American troops after the Villa raid
at Columbus, the note insists that ill
contradiction of the word of Generals
Scott and Funston, another expedition
crossed the boundary line, thus vio
lating all the precepts of international
law and committing an act of invasion.
"The American government." says
the note, "has admitted that the work
of the expedition which entered after
the Columbus raid, now is over. But
in spite of this fact, American troops
still remain on Mexican soil. To con
tend that political disorder in this
country justifies this act of the Amer
ican military forces is in conflict with
the repeated professions of the Wash
ington government relative to non
inteiefrence." The note says that much of the
trouble in Mexico is due "to the atti
tude of the United States in not pun
ishing conspirators in the United
States, who have platted the downfall
of the present constitutionalist gov
I ernment and to the acts of Washing
ton m refusing to permit the shipment
of arms and ammunition to enter
Mexico."
The note, which is addressed to Sec
retary Lansing, reads in part as fol
lows: "The Mexican government has just
received advices that a group of
American troops has crossed the fron
tier and penetrated Mexican territory
and at present is near a place called
El Pino, some seventy miles to the
south of the frontier. This newly ef
fected passage of troops without the
i! . contention, today received 2r,G0 tensifying the possibility for the manu-
tongues a little ;css ready n ml
hands a little more readv.
"I am not afraid of the a nestles
of absolute unproparednoss. I don't
regard the man who believes in no
preparedness as a source of dancer.
If a man is foolish enough we can
center public attention on his folly.
The dangerous man is the will mean
ing man who firmlv believe that if
you prepare a little but not much
(Continued on Page Two)
Convention carted to order at 11 a.m. tickets for the convention, which is the facture of munitions, after he has done
by Charles I). Miller of New York, .share til'. 'tied Chicago as the conven- nothing whatever to utilize the vast
chairman of the republican national j tion city;. They will be distributed, power of a great world state to guar-
committee. anions those who subscribed to the antee the shipments of provisions to
!';: ycr by Rev. John Timothy Stone fur.d of $10n,000 which was raised to Oermany: after we have found that he
of Chicago. bring the convention to this city. has ever raised his hand threateningly
Call for convention read by James B. The dob-gates, alternates, press tick- , and proceeded' against us with all his
Revnnlrlo nt Massachusetts. secretary-1: ets and I hose to be given the different power when we tried to defend our-
lrjof the republican national committee, j states for distribution by the national se'ves against the miserable starving
does not. if von recall the answer be
sent to the emperor on the subject of eouseni oi tne .ieican government
breaches of international law bv our 1,1 siae iianger tne harmony
enemies
his own question
said Herr Hirsch, answering relations wnicn ought to
(Continued on Page Three)
Shipments Of Munitions
Makes Douglas Uneasy
Election of temporary chairman.
Addre.-s of temporary chairman.
Election of temporary officers.
Selection of committee on creden
tials, permanent organization, lules
and ordtr of business.
M iscella neons business.
Meeting of committee on credentials
Oemmltteeman will be delivered next oul war-
Sunday and Monday by Secretary
Reynolds.
Mrs Antoinette Funk today opened
headquarters for the American Woman
Suffrage issoi iation, to work for the
Insertion of a plank declaring for na-
tional woman suffrage in the repub-
Wlll be h-!d ir. the national committee bean platform.
n.,n. Coliseum Annex, following the I v e will ask is a sample declara-
adjournment of the first session. I (Continued on :PageTwo)
"We would not reject the peace medi
ation of a really neutral power, possibly
the president of Switzerland, but Pres
ident Wilson's hand we reject, and we
believe a great mass of the German
people approve our rejection of it."
, The speaker's words were greeted
witli loud applause, mingled with
: shouts of disapproval from the so-
! cialists.
Herr von Graefe, conservative,
Republican A. 9. Leased Wire
DOUGLAS, May 31. Receipt of re
ports of the contents of the Carranza
note, urging that American troops be
withdrawn from Mexico coupled with
sudden activity in shipment of muni
tions from Agua Prieta to Fronteras
and Cuchuta, 'the base camps of the
de facto troops in northern Sonora,
caused some local uneasiness today.
While it was admitted in Agua Pri
made, it was stated that they were no
larger than were previous shipments
and had no special significance.
While the embargo on arms and am
munition continues in force, it is re
liably reported that Mexican forces arc
using as little ammunition as possible
and have a reserve of several million
rounds.
