4
The Citizen
Devoted to tlie Interests of ttie o-uuitaln. People
C2RXA PULUSHING CO.
(iweoro4nD
WM. G. ntOST. JmmOk4
C r wurrwBUCui. m.i
r. O. IOWMAN, 0 I li il ltaH
fctninm ave,ge..efd
Knowledge it power and ttw
way to keep up with modern
knowledge it t read a good
newspaper.
BRREA. MADISON COUNTY, KENTTCKY. JITNE I. iPlf).
One Dollar a Year.
No. 40.
Berea's Record for One Year
Wednesday, June 7th, is Commencement at Bereal
Commencement Day is about the biggest occasion
that Kentucky or the mountains ever see. It is like a
Erotracted meeting, and a county fair, and a political de
ate, and ft Sunday School picnic, all rolled into one I
You never see so many acres of saddle horses,
sun-bonnets, pretty girls, and tall young men as at a
Berea Commencement!
During the year f868 different students have made
their way to Berea, 1 JI2 from Kentucky, 129 from North
Carolina, 73 from Tennessee, 57 from Virginia, 30 from
West Virginia, 51 from Ohio, and the rest from 26 other
states, besides a dozen from foreign lands.
There have been 144 students in the College, 338
students in the Normal Department, 410 students in the
Academy, 288 students in the Vocational Schools, and
488 students in the Foundation School.
This does not count the 143 children in the Practice
Schools where th& Normal students learn to teach by
actual work under expert supervisors.
More than 500 of these young people have begun
Christian life this year. Practically everyone of them
stands for total abstinence from intoxicating liquors and
tobacco's stunting and degrading influence is banished.
The graduates of this year constitute an army by
themselves: 22 from College, 20 from the Normal School,
38 from the Academy, 14 from Agriculture, 15 from
Home Science, 8 from Woodwork, 5 from Nursing, 4
from Commerce, and one from Printing. Besides these
there are 90 from the Foundation School.
The celebrations of the closing year occupy nearly
On Friday, June 2nd, there will be a re-union of the
aged men and women who were students at Berea before
the Civil War. Mrs. J. A. R. Rogers, whose husband was
the first head of the school, will be present, and Professor
Dodge and President Frost will deliver memorial ad
dresses tm the life and services of John G. Fee, Berea's
great patriarch, who was born in Bracken County, Ken
tucky, just one hundred years ago.
- On Saturday, June 3rd, the Academy graduation
occurs.
On Sunday, June 4th, is the great procession, and
the sermon to graduates, and at night the annual sermon
to the students' religious societies.
On Monday and Tuesday there are examinations in
all departments.
On Monday night is the grand concert of the Har
monia society, rendering the famous Oratoria of Elijah.
On Tuesday night is a re-union of the graduates of
the Collegiate Department with an address by John
Raphael Rogers.
Wednesday is the big day, beginning with the Pro
cession at 8:10 in the morning. There will be student
exercises all the forenoon in the great Tabernacle, basket
dinner in the grove, speeches by Dr. Goss the Optimist
and other distinguished men at 1 o'clock.
Countless churches, homes and villages through all
our broad land will be gladdened and enriched forever
by the work of Berea College during the year now draw
ing to a close.
Republican Convention June 7
Our Candidate is Hughes.
Our Platform is Goodwill, Fairness, and Govern
ment for the People and not for the Politicians.
John
""I
Berea's great pioneer and pa
triarch, John O. Fee, was bora a
hundred yeart ago.
He came to Berea and founded tho
Union Church in 1853, and from that
CONTENTS
FAQ I L Editorial: Berea's Record
. For Oaa Year; Kentucky And
Taleott U&lli. John a Fee Cel
- ebratloiL Our Own State News.
United Stales News-World
News.
FADE 1 Departmental Page.
FAGI A Serial: The Forester's
Daughter, Story: Medieval Jus
tice. FAGI 4 Locals.
FAGI L-Loeal Newt Items of In
terest FACE 1 Mountain Agriculture:
A Successful Farmers' Meeting.
Corn Cultivation. Death
Warrant Fo AU Males. Cin
li Yea
s 'i
G. Fee
time until his death in 1901 was
chief figure of Berea's affairs.
Father Fee was one of the South
ern abolitionists, one of the early
advocates of temperance, one of the
great promoters of spiritual religion
and a man whose influence among
all who knew him was powerful and
lasting.
On next Friday night a service in
his memory will be held in College
Chapel. The services will also be
a re-union of those who were stu
dents in Berea before the Civil War.
It is expected that the Venerable
FW. George Candee, of Toledo, Ohio,
who was a helper of Brother Fee in
Berea before the war, will be pres
ent. Brief addresses will be made
by Treasurer Osborne, Professor
Dodge and President Frost.
Brother Fee's son, Edwin 8. Fee,
of Clarksburg, Ind, and his grand
daughter. Miss Hallie Embree, from
California, will be present
cinnati Markets. Farm And
Garden; Home Department: More
Hot Weather Desserts. Sea
sonable Salads.
FACE 7 International Sunday
School Lesson. Gems In Verse.
Go To Sunday School.
FAGE I East Kentucky News Let
ters Commencement Program.
Commencement Day it the day to
subscribe for The Citizen. We are
falling In line with our neighbors,
we are having a "clearance sale."
On that day aad that day only will
we sell subscriptions at 75c. Get
your mind made up and your money
ready.
Belitve ia the Kind ci This. Yea See b Bcrta,
if:-- '-Si f'l"??;
2JCFZA Cou.ZGtTrrir7rcajcKi
KENTUCKY AND TAJXOTT HALLS
Now bring erected lot Wooio Dormitories
Kentucky Hall is the beautiful building now being erected northeast of the Main
Campus. f
It is to contain rooms for a hundred girls, and in the basement two splendid din-.
ing rooms. -f 1
Its northern wing, alreadj finished, contains a splendid model kitchen, with room
for the matron and for the girs who will get up early in the morning to prepare breakfast
This will be the most perfect building Berea has ever had except the Chapel, and
will cost about $50,000.
The undertaking has bcerl to raise this money in Kentucky and to call the building
Kentucky Hall. The citizens, faculty, and students began with subscriptions which
amounted to $10,000 three years ago, and since that some has been added. The Col
lege has been ao poor that, all the President's strength was needed in getting money
for daily needs, so that he could not pursue the work of raising money for Kentucky
Hall, but now the building 'is started, and the rest of the money must be secured im
mediately. . - , ,
The persons who have not paid their subscriptions are asked to pay them to the
Treasurer the first of this month, and inasmuch as the subscriptions were not called for
promptly we hope many can make them larger than they were at first.
And every friend of Berea and of Christian education who has not already made
a gift is begged to help us at once. Bring a subscription when you come to Com
mencement, and if you cannot come to Commencement send one by mail.
SUBSCRIPTION FOR THE KENTUCKY HALL
In ordtr to join hands with others in providing the new
dormitory for girls Kentucky Hall for Berea College, I
hereby pledge to pay . its Treasurer at Berea, Kentucky,
. per month for one year, beginning
on the first
or $
Name.
Ill OUR OVn STATE
1
Wind, rain and hailstorms left a
trail of damage in many sections of
the Slate Monday. The heaviest
damage to property was reported
from Madisonville and Hopkins
county, where lines of communica
tion were brdken by falling trees,
and many buildings, trees and gar
dens injured.
Capital stock of banks will be as
sessed at 100 per cent, and the sur
plus and undivided stock at 80 per
cent- State Auditor Greene advised
bankers Friday who sought to have
the assessment valuation reduced to
80 per cent, where it stood before.
In a battle with Villa bandits
south of Cruces Thursday Corp.
Marksbury, of near Harrodsburg,
Ky, was killed and Private George
Hulette, also of Mercer County, was
wounded.
Gov. Stanley was the principal
speaker Monday at the unveiling of
the monument erected at Hender
son to the memory of Revolutionary
soldiers buried in that city. He
spoke at Henderson Sunday on
"Fraternalism."
Mrs. Cora Wilson Stewart, of
moonlight school fame, has suffered
breakdown and her phy
sicians have advised that ahe take
a complete rest for at least one
month.
Hew Hotel For aaard
D. W. Fulp, of Bluefield. W. Va,
is erecting a three-story and base
ment brick bulldiag in Hazard,
which will be a handsome on when
completed. The building will eon
tain 4? rooms, two of which will be
store rooms, while the remainder
i i
Hi:
day of.
-
ETC i
.on or before January 1, 1917
P. O. -
u, 0, hews
WILLIAM GRAVES SHARP
American Ambassador le
aerieuely III In Parle.
rwta by Aiarlcaa Aittifn
Makinc war less freauenL if not
' an extinct method of settling inter
national deputes, is the hope of del
egates gathered in Washington for
the first annual convention of the
League to Enforce Peace.
Seven new bishops and two mis
sionary bishops of the Methodist
Episcopal Church were consecrated
at the General Conference in ses
sion at Saratoga Springs, N. T.
(CoaUnuaS aa sage
Get Tfcta for Your Felki by Sdjtcribbg for The
1st
1916
WILSON'S SPEECH
DIVIDES INTEREST
World Peaco Alliance Approved
By Many.
ENTENTE TO CONTINUE WAR
Hope That Addraae May Lead to Die
ouaaion of Peace Prepeeale Net Re
garded Probable by KnUnte Rep
reeonUtlvee.
Wash! niton. May M. President
W 11 ion has already received a flood
of telegrams from various parts of
Ute country, congratulating him oa
his address before the Leagae to En
force Peace. The president's sugges
tion of a world peaee alUanoa, eiur
the war, with the Ualted States a
partner, has struck a responalva
chord 1a many of the peace orga-laa-Uone.
Hope Is eaterUlaed la some
quarters that the address mar lead
to some definite proposal to being the
European countries to the point of
discussing the end of the preeent war
There are Indications that the
president's proposal will aaeet with a
divided reception In this eonntry. ow
ing to the act that tt la. eonsinered
Impracticable and Ineapedlent by
thoeo who fellow tho dootrtao that
the United ttatee should not. become
ent-agled with Buiopeaa aeOooe In
any alliance. But the aO Important
point, officials declare. Is, the edteot
the nreetdent'e addraae will hnvo oa
tie chancellories el the Mllorent
Tnetret Indication are that M
w&l receive a muoh warmer weseoeM
fea Berlin and Tleana fhon ha Ismlem,
rarta, or ratrograd. The tmUm mt
tola are admittedly euestcioos of any
peeoa proposals. however .ague,
(Uoanaoee en rage BtU
VORLD HEWS
The House of Commons responded
Thursday in absolute unity to the
plea of Premier Asqullh that all
parties unite in assisting the Gov
ernment in the settlement of the
Irish question. He said that an ef
fort would be made to end the trou
ble by agreement among the con
tending factions in Ireland and that
Lloyd-George had been selected to
accomplish the task.
The Bulgarian invasion of Greek
Macedonia has reached to Demir
Hissar and from that town forces of
Bulgars are said to be making their
way southeastward toward me
Aegean seaport of Kavalla, north
east of Saloniki.
Coincidental with the Bulgarian
invasion comes a report that the re
juvenated Serbian army the an
cient enemy of the Bulgars has
landed at Saloniki to re-enforce the
British and French troops already
there. This force has been variously
estimated at from 80,000 to 100,000
officers and men.
Late reports state that the Ital
ans are holding back Austrians from
further advances in the Tyrol and
inflicting heavy losses on them by
counter attacks.
In the meantime the Germans have
captured 300 meters of trenches from
the French near the village of Cum-
ieres, on the Meuse. Fighting of
the greatest intensity is reported
around Hill 340 and between Cum
ieres and Le Mort Homme.
It is asserted that since the com
mencement of the war 550 persons
have been killed and 1,616 injured
in the British Isles by German at
tacks by sea and air, according to a
statement made in Parliament by
the British Home Secretary.
BULGARS TAKE
GREEK FORTS
T. ..
Forca Also Advancing In birec
- tlon of Karcla. , ,
START DRIVE ON SALONICA
Germane Devote Day to Artillery Ac
tion Against Vsrdun Austrtane
Report Further Gains In Drive
Through Southern Tyrolean Front.
London, May Z. The orosslng of
the Greek frontier by the Bulgarian
Macedonia army, aad the occupation
kT it of four Oreek forts, coupled
with the Bulgarians that are advanc
ing In the direction of Karauw are
Interpreted here aa foreshadowing a
Bulgarian drive on Salonlca. Such a
drive la believed here to be lasUgated
by Bulgaria's ally, Germany, with the
view of forestalling any possible al
lied campaign In Macedonia, and thus
depriving tho entente powers of tho
Initiative, repeating the perform an oes
and Vsrdun and on the Trentlno.
A dispatch from Athens states that
another Serbtaa contingent has been
landed at Salonloa. The Bulgarians
are reported to have oeoupled the
Oreek forte of RupeL DragoUn. Spar
tovo and Kanlvo.
Tor mfmths there has existed a
complete deadlock on the Oreek fron
tier. The failure of tho Teutons, aft
er the overrunning of Serbia, to path
through to Salonloa before that Oreek
port was converted Into a powerful
fortress, now serving as the base of
aa equally powerful allied army, has
frequently been reported to be based
on disagreements between Germany's
allies Austria, Turkey and Bulgaria
orer the prospective spoils of such
a campaign.
These disagreements, K Is believed
here, nave been settled and Bulgaria
has been selected to play the leading
part. If possible, alone. In the drive
against tho Oreek port, with the view
to dislodging, or oven destroying, tho
Anglo-French-Serbian army.
The day was devoted by the Ger
mans before Verdun to violent artil
lery bombardments throughout the
region of Le Mort Homme, on the
west bank of the Mouse aad tho see
tor west of the Thlaumoat farm, oa
the east bank. No Infantry attache
were made In the course of tho day.
The Oermaae took the oSenalve la
Alsace during tho night, nuking two
attempt at aa attack northeast c
Balsehweller, a town northwest of
"1"" They were enable to leave
their trenehea under he French are.
The Austrian war office announces
further galas la the drlv through
the ooutae-e Tyrolean front against
(CoaUnusd easas gitM) '
Gtizen.
