'JOL
VOL. LXC. NEW SERIES VOL. LXII.
BURLINGTON VERMONT, THURSDAY, JUNE 1, 191G.
NUMBER 49.
FRFNfiH RFR&IN
1 II bll W II II h Will II
LOST GROUND BY
SPIRITED ATTACK
Capture Strong Positions
on
Slopes Southwest of Dead
Man's Hill and Take Many
Prisoners and Machine Guns.
AUSTRIANS VICTORIOUS
Claim Large Numbers of Prison
ers and Munitions Captured
since Beginning of Latest
Drive British Press Invasion
of German East Africa.
London, May 31. The French troops I
nortbwest of Vol dun in the region of
Lo Mort Homme have turned on the
offensive against the Germans anil In a
spirited attack have captured a strong
1 organised position on tin- slopes
muthwost of Le Molt Homme. Seven
iiinihine gups and 1I2." prisoners wore
t.ikrn In the nttack, which was the ..nly
lrftintry fighting on Wednesday re
ported In the latest French official
'omtn unlcatinn
Tlie town of Avocourt and 3 rill 304
in ine nnmeii ntt- vtemitv nrn uti.ir.
twin .ti .iiuf'iti. nun sueiis ol largo
calibre are bi Ing used. ISonibnrdmonts
nlso are In pi ogress north of Verdun,
from tho Mcuse river to Fort Vaux and
up In the Vosaes mountnlns in the
Ilartmnnns Wellerkopf region,
On the AMngo-Arslcio sector of the
Austrlan-Ilallan front tho Austrlans
have taken additional points of van
tage from the Italians and put down
attempts by King Victor Emmanuel's
men to recover lost ground. According
to the Austrian communication during
the present offensive the Austrlans have
captured 31,ftfi2 Italians aml'Iln cannon.
I Me Italian war office admits the ovarii-
nte.ii ui ittiMiiuns at .woiuo i naioia nnu
I' mta Cordln. on tho Aslasn nlateau.
The lake region south of Dvinsk on
the Itussiau front Is again the scene of
heavy bombardments, probably tho pre.
In l.. i..r....... nni.,iH i"..i.n
the Iiesarahlan border, there Is In-
Petrograd reports t;he capture of a
ui-sjan posmon in me region oe ijiar-
it trick ejetted the Invaders.
Nothing new has come through con
orning the invasion of Greek Mnce-
lonia oy inn iniarais ami Hermans, nut
m the extreme western part of tho Ral-
an front the Austrlans along the
'eynwi river in Albania have pursued
tallan pa'rols.
The Iirltlsh Invasion of German Fast
friea continues, and has reached a
iiitnmj t-n 1 1 urn. in ii weiiuii.ii jiii.ii mm u?-
ween tho Egnro mountains and the
fnnagnl river, whoic a fight seems
probable.
MEMORIAL HOSPITAL RITES
Work Stnrlcil on Hour. W.
Memorial at lleiinlimlon
iitiuim
HennlnKton, May 31. -Fully l.JfiO persons
Fathered this forenoon at the site of th
proposed Henry W. I'utnam Memorial
h M itnl, to witness the ceiemouy ot
ninr? the first sod," the aetivo par
t ii.mt in the rlto bclni; Henrv W. Put.
limn, Jr., of New York. Iluslness pener.
a" y was suspended In the village dunni'
the latter part of tho forenoon and tho
n. hool children were released to take part
in tho exercises.
The hospital comes Into BxlMencs
through tho gift of tho lato Henry W
Tutnam of San Diego, California, a form
er resident of Bennington, who three
years ago gave to tho village tho property
oi ine nennmgion water company. 1113
eell Of I-ift urneltlo.l tlint txn ranln 11 tnr
domestic use should bo t educed one-half
and that tho net income, tdiould ho an
Jiually turned over to tho Hospital aFSo
elation for construction and maintenance.
Tho fund has now reached nearly $,V),(i0
ind recently tho son of the founder do
luted $39,(00 for tho construction of the
ospltnl building. Tho contract has been
et and work on tho excavation began
his morning beforo the spectators had
ift tho mounds.
HONORS AT MIDDLEBURY.
.1.
Pnrker, Vnleilleliirlan, nml
SIlNII
Ada Ilurm-M, SiiliKiilurliin.
Mlddlcbury, Jlay 31. The faculty havo
doslgnnted Alhan J. Parker of Morrls-
vlllo and Miss Ada Barnes ot Middle
bury as valedictorian and salututorlan
respectively of tho class of 191(5. The
1,-rades up to tho mlddlo of this last
femester determined tho final standing
of tho class In tho selection of these
two positions of honor. Mr, Parker has
leen active In athletics while In coIIoko,
vlnnlng his letter In football. Ho also
layed 011 his class basketball team dur
ing his four years at college. Ho Is a
member of tho Olco club, as well as the
manager of tho successful club repre
senting Mlddlobury this Inst season.
THREE VERMONTERS
GO INTO BANRUPTCY
Ilutlnnd, May 31,- -Threo petitions In
bankruptcy were filed to-day. Tho case
showing tho largest debts Is that of
Irving II. Carr of Hardwlck, genoral
merchant, In which there aro neatly 100
eredllnrs. Tho liabilities aro $43,32.'i.i:i
and thero nro nssots of $31,441,19, with
$l,40l clnlmed exempt, Burlington cred
itors include. Burlington (Irocery com
pany, $81.21; Chnmplnln Seoil company,
$41,10; Bpaldlns-Klmball company, $1M,'0;
O. C. Taylor company J1GI.SG; Vermont
Hardware company, J5
Arthur S. Hllllkor, .li, of Burlington,
merchant, owes SIP.3 and has assets
(if $130. Tho larger Burlington creditors
hold Recount!) no follows: Arbticklo &
Co,, $ICS; Dcrry, Hall & Co., $11; Fred
Carpenter, $11; 11. P. Piiudle, fM; Poo
pie's Department store, $10; C. L. Soulo
St Co., $57; A. K. Skelioy, $10.
Fred L. Floury of St. Albans, a ma
ehlnlHt, also Illcs a schedule, giving Ills
liabilities as $nr.1 and his assets as $210,
with $;n0 claimed exempt.
REV. J. H. METCALF
GIVES ASTEROIDS
Allied llnmir .liny .nnie 1 1 ill f n
rn I.lllle IMnnel".
Princeton, X. J., May 31. Announce
ment was mado hero to-day that. In con
nection with the New Jersey department
of the allied bazaar, there would be a
popularity ennton of Slates, cities, col
leges, and famous men. The six names
getting the highest number of votes will
be given to six newly discovered and an
,ct unnamed heavenly bodies, after which
scientists will Know the six little planets
by the names awarded In the contest.
The six planets asteroids, they are
called were discovered by tho Itev. .1.
j 11. Motcnlf, the Internationally tumour
I amateur astronomer of Winchester Mass.
It Is usually the custom for dlseovoiers
to name their discoveries themselves, but
thioiiKh the efforts of Dr. Melcalfs col
league, Professor Henry Norils Russell
of Princeton, the privilege has been grant
ed to the bazaar and the proceeds of the
contest will go to the cause of the allies.
The plnnH for the contest are being for-
mulated by a committee, of which Presl-
dent John Grlcr Illbben and Professor
Augustus Trowbridge, the physicist, niv
members.
Formerly all planets were named aft
er Latin mythological characters, hut
tho list of such names has long since
been exhausted. Now the only condi
tion Is that the names be feminine. The
International committee of astronomers !
must register the nnmes. and as this
committee is composed mostly of Gor
mans, It was hinted bore that there
might bo some difficulty were the suc
cessful names "Wllsonln," "P.ooso
veltla," or "Hughosla."
At present the planets are known by
the numbers under which they have
I been officially listed. They are from
to SO miles In diameter, about the
slzo of a country, and their orbits are
from 2:;c,y),iM--o to 27fl,C(y,n.iO miles from
tho sun.
FIRE LOSS $3,000.
Mniler Fnrm IIiiIIiIIiirh In West llerk
Nhlre Destroyed.
West Berkshire, May III. The farm
buildings owned by K. A. Mosler, situ
ated in this village, wore burned to the
ground last night about 12 o'clock, to
gether with throo horses nnd some
poultry. Most of tho household furni
ture was saved. The. causo of tho lire,
which evidently caught In the horse
barn. Is unknown. The loss Is estimated
at $.Vii) and thoro is an Insurance of
about $1,7i"i0.
TO UNKNOWN DEAD.
Monument Dedicated nl Ne p.irf
IliniKlit by W. II. ('., llnitcr root.
Newport, May 31. Tho W. It. C. of
Baxter Post have, with tho assistance
of others, bought a monument which
was dedicated yesterday with appi upd
ate ceiemnnlos to tho unknown dead.
Tho Hon. Charles A. Prouty dollvered
the memorial address at Lane's opera
hall In the afternoon.
DROPPED DEAD.
Mm. Alary Mee SiicoiiiiiIhmI to Itrnln
lleiniirrliiiKi- While 11 1 .VelKhborM
Montpellcr, May 31. Mrs. Mary Kllcn
Mee, widow of Martin Moo, for many
years a night watchman at tho I.ane
shops, dripped dead last evening while,
calling on a neighbor. Heath was due
to hemoirhago of the brnlu. Mrs. Meo
was born In Derry, N. 11, August
Ml, and was married In Boston 2 years
ago, coming to Montpellcr to reside soon
nfter. Her husband died throo years
ago. She Is survlvpd by two sons, John
of Boston nnd Raymond of this city,
and two daughters, Katherlno and Mar
garet, and by two brothers, William
Canty of Uorry and Cornelius Canty
of Maiden, Mass.
HOUSE COMMITTEE
VISITS WEST POINT
ConKrcNNninu (.recne nulling Member
Iteeelvllig 17-Cun Salute.
West Point, N. V.. May 31. Six mem
bers of tho commltteo on military nf'
fairs of tho House of Ileprcsentatlves
who camo hero to-day to consider tho
proposed enlargement of tho United
States Military Academy, recently an
thorlzcd by Congress, were received with
a snluto of 17 guns. Later they re
vlowod tho battalion of cadets. The
party consisted of Itoprosentntlves Mich
ael F, Farley of Now York, Ashton C.
fihallenberger of Nebraska, Frank Ij
Orecno of Vermont, Klchard Olney, 2nd
of Massachusetts, Thomas S. Crago of
Pennsylvania nnd Thomas D. Schall of
Minnesota.
CONFESS KURGLARY.
Iloiinnl Siveet, II), nnd Waller Turner,
17, Knlered Slirlilon Slore.
St. Altians, May 30. Howard Sweet, aged
19 years, and Walter Turner, 17 years old,
were ai rested at Sheldon to-day 011 the
chai go of burglarizing W, C. Marsh's
stole In that placo sometime between
10:30 o'clock Saturday night and tho next
morning. Some Jewelry and a 10-pnun.l
box of tobacco wero taken. In city couit
beforo Judge N. N. Post to-day thov
enteral a pica of guilty and wero placed
on probation.
1,000-MIIiK HUN UNPKD.
Boston, May 30. A thousand mllo
motorcycle ondurnnco run from this
city to Buffalo and return wns ended
hnro to-night. Soventy-two riders loft
hero Sunday and 22 perfect scores wero
turned In at tho headquarters of tho
Bay Stato Motorcycle club, under whoso
auspices the nffnlr wns held,
Vnluo-scektng ts wnat ad-reader!, call
bargain hunting," Tho old stylo nf "bargain-hunt"
wns a sort of gamble. Value
seeking Is not.
QUICK DEPARTURE
OF OUR TROOPS
ASKED BY 110
Claims Words and Protests of
United States in Direct Con
tradiction to Acts Mexico's
Sovereignty Violated.
WASHINGTON MUST ACT
Time Has Arrived When Ameri
can Government Must Declare
Itself Clearly anti Unequivo
cally As to Future Intentions
towards Mexico.
Mexico City, May 31. Claiming that the
words and protcsls of the I'nited States
have been entirely in contradiction to Its
acts, and that In spile of protestations
not to Intervene in the affairs of Mexico,
soldiers of the Fulled States are now In
Mexico without the consent of th-a Mexi
can government and In violation of Mcx-
Ico'h sovereignty, the Mexican govorn-
ment now asks for the immediate wun
drawn! of Ihose troops. The request Is
made In a lL'.'O word note made public at
the foreign oillce to-day about noon.
The note recites that the American
troops ciossed the frontier after the Co
lumbus Incident without the permission
of the Mexican government The act was
not legarded as one ot Invasion then
solely because the'l'nlted States said they
had misinterpreted Hie attitude of the
Mexican government. When the second
expedition crossed the line after the Glenn
Springs Incident, the note maintains, the
plea that this was done with tho consent
of the Mexican consul at Delrlo. Taxes,
is untenable and that act can only be re
garded as one of Invasion.
"The Mexican government therforo In
vites the United States to bring to end
this unsuppoi table situation," the note
concludes, "and to support Its protesta
tions and declarations ot friendship by
an Immediate, withdiawal of the Ameri
can troops."
Maintaining that tho protests of friend
ship by the United States and the ex
pressed desire for non-intervention have
been contradicted by the acts of the
Washington government, tin- note says
the time has arrived when Washington
must declare Itself clearly and un
equivocally as to Its future Intentions
towaid Mexico.
After reciting the fnts which led to
tho first crossing of the frontier by the
American troops after the Villa raid at
Columbus, the note Insists that In con
tradiction of the word of Generals Scott
and Funston another expedition ciossed
the boundary line, thus violating all the
precepts of International law and com
mitting an a-t If Invasion.
The American government," says the
note, "has admitted that the work of the
xpedltlon which enteied after tho
Columbus raid Is now over. But In spite
of this fact, American troops still re
main 011 Mexican soli. To contend that
political dlsonler In this country justifies
this act of the American military forces
Is In conflict with the repeated professions
of the 'Washington government lelatlve
to non-Interference."
The note points out that much of the
trouble in Mexico Is due "to the attitude
of the, Unhid States in not punishing
conspirators In the I'nited States, who
have plotted the downfall of the present
constitutionalist government, nnd to the
acts of Washington In refusing to permit
the shipment of nrms and ammunition ti
entire Mexico,
NO SATISFACTORY EXPLANATION.
"Tim explanation given by tho Ameri
can government In regard to the cross
lug of troops nt Columbus has never been
satisfactory to tho Mexican government,"
tho communication bays, "but the new
Invasion of our territory Is no longer an
Isolated fact and tends to convince tho
Mexican government that something more
than a mere error is involved.
"This latter net of tho American foro;s
causes new complications for the Mexican
goernment, Inert nslng tho difficulty of
llndlng a satisfactory solution and th
tenseness of the International sltuatlot..
Tho Mexican government cannot conslde
this last Incident except as an Invasion
of our territory nnd It. Is Its duty to re
quest tho American government to ordur
tho Immediate withdrawal of thesn new
forces and to abstain from sending any
other expedition of 11 similar nntuni.
U. S. INTK.VOHP HONESTY.
Tho noto requests of the United States
government "a inoro categorical explnna
tion of lis real Intentions toward Mexico'
To clear tho way for such a statement. It
proposes to speak the. mind ot tho Mox
lean government with entire frnnknest,
and bottlng aside "nil diplomatic
phcmlsm," but declaring It doea so hop
Ing that the sensibilities of the Washing
ton government will not bo wounded by
Its words. It recalls protestations ot
friendship of tho American government
towards l.ntln-Amorlcan countries aim
particularly toward Mexico, citing Piesl
dent Wilson's declaration that tho Unllei
Stales did not Intend to Interfere In the
Internal nffnlrs of 'Mexico nor In any way
to Impair Us sovereignty. These repeated
protestations appeared, It says, 10 hull
cato "an honest purpose, on tho part ol
tho government nnd people of the United
Stales "not to war on Mexico,
Tho Mexican government, however,
the note continues "rcgiet to remark
that the acts of the American military
authorities are In absolute conlllc
with the above statements and Is con
strained to appeal to the President, th
department of Btnte, the Smrite and
the American people to the end I hut
once nml for all tlmo tho true political
tendency of tho United States towardH
Mexico bo dellned."
INTF.HVFNTION INTENDED.
"The Columbus expedition," it says,
has been carried Into offer t without iinv
spirit of harmony, hut on the contrnry,
under a spirit of distrust of our au
thorities as our co-operation was not
only unsought but we were uninformed
In regard to the military operation ef
fected." As evidence of this distrust the note
cites the fact that the expedition In
cluded nrtlllery and Infantry, 'the use
of which "cannot he explained In any
other way except as a precaution against
prohablo attack on the part of the
Mexican forces." Tho Fnlted .States It
Is nsserted now prefers to keep Its
troops Idle In Mexico rather than nost
them on the American side or the line.
"Hy this action," the note says, the
American government gives loom for
the supposition that Its true Intontlon
Is to keep there the troops It has al
ready Interned In Mexico, anticipating
that It may make usu of them In future
operations.
IT. S. SUPPORTED VILLA.
The note cites "tho decided support'
given Villa at one time by General Scott
and the state department, which It savs
prolonged civil war many months; and
the continuous assistance rendered 1
American Catholic cloigy to their Mexi
can brothers who aie, It Is charged,
Incessantly winking against the con
stitutionalist government." Tho activities
of tho "Amriiian Interventionist press
and businessmen" also run referred to,
The Ameilcan preeminent the note says
us either unable or unwilling to prevent
all the.su "works of conspiracy" against
the de facto government. Many of tho
bands of bolder outlaws, It adds, wen
"armed and perhaps also organized" tin
dor tho toleranee of Texas authorities
while well known conspirators who weic
arrested have hi en released under In
significant bond. The detention of ship
ment of arms and ammunitions to the
Mexican government Is also arm lend
as an unfriendly net for which no flank
reason has been assigned."
ACTION AT LAW
FOLLOWS JOY RIDE
Itiitliinil (irocery Clerk nnd Ills Friend
Sued.
Ilutlnnd, May 31. -A civil suit of un
usual character was begun In Ilutlnnd
county court to-day when George E. I,,
Hail lam, a local grocer, brought action
against George T. Angell, his former do
livery ll;,, and James Bell, the latter'"
friend, l i recover $"'0 for tho loss of an
autnmobllo delivery truck a few days
ago. After the store had closed 0110 eve
ning Angell took the truck without per
mission arid went for a Joy ride. Tim
machine caught lire and was totally de
stroyed. The writ der lares that Angell
struck n match to ascertain what ha. I
stalled the auto and that tho gas caught
fire. Angell Is a Northlield boy.
PAY FINAL RESPECTS.
Uiinernl nf Hubert Ciirtinell Held nt St,
Stephen' Mlilillebnry.
St. Albans, May 31. The funeral of
lion. Robert Cartmell of North Pleas
ant street, who died early Sunday
morning was held at St. Stephen's
Episcopal Church, of which he wns a
member, nt 2:30 o'clock this afternoon.
Tho Itev. John Evans Bold officiated
nnd tho choir rendered some of his
favorite hymns. The church was filled
by his many relatives and friends,
fiom various places within and out tho
Stnte. Tho National bank of Middle
bury, of which he was a director, was
closed during the afternoon and alt
places or business ilrew tlieir curtains
during the funeral services. The
floral tributes were many and beauti
ful. The directors of tho National
ank acted as honorary bearers. Tho
Kidy bearers wero Allan Calhoun, W.
Clement, George E. Marshall, Dr. E.
II. .Martin, Judge Wllbor E. Hanks, nnd
C. Bain of Bristol. Tim remains
will be taken Thursday to Bnrnet for
interment beside those of his first wife.
NEW DESIGNS IN
AMERICAN COINS
IrM Change In Dimes, (lunrlerN anil
llnlr Diillnrs ulnee mill.
Washington, May 30. Dimes, quarters
nnd half dollars ot new design will be
minted after July 1, Secretary McAdoo
uiliounceil to-day. For the first time
since ISM a chanco will bo effected In
these pleros. The announcement ills
closed that tho half dollar has fallen
practically Into disuse. Tho new de
sign wns selected with hope of restor
Ing It to more general circulation, It
was Indicated. Under tho now coinage.
each piece will be of different design,
Tho hnlf dollar anil dime moiieis were
mado by Adolpli A. Weinman nnd the
qunrter dollar by Ilermon A. MacNell
Both aro sculptors of note.
The fa co of tho new half dollar bears
a full length nf l.inerty, with a back
ground of the American flag Hying to
tho breeze. Tho Goddess Is striding
toward the dawn of a new dny, carry
ing laurel and oak branches, symbolic
of civil and military glory. Tho roverse
sldo shows an englo perched high upon
a mountain crng, wings unfolded.
Growing fiom a rift In tho rock Is
snpllng ot mountain plno, symbolic
America.
STOLE A TEAM.
Hoy
Dunham Gels One to Two Vcnm
.lolin Weill Held.
St. Albans, May 31. In city court he
foro Judge N. N. Post this morning, Roj
Dunham of Bakersfield pleaded guilty
to stealing a team Sunday night and
wns sentenced to servo not less than
year nor more than two years In the
house of correction at Ilutlnnd, The
ease against John Wells of Ennsburg,
who was nrrosted on tJio chargo
being Implicated In tho matter, was hold
for Investigation. Dunhnm escaped from
tho Stato Induslilal school at Vcr
tonnes about six months ago,
Pentacostal Church, Inc.
Montpellcr, Mny 31, Articles of asso
elation wero Hied yesterday In tho office
of tho secretary of stato by tho Penta
costal Church of Nazareno at Wolcott,
Incorporated without capital stock. Thero
aro V! subsci ibers.
LIFE VOW SIN'N FKIN PRESIDENT.
Dublin, May 30, via London. prof. j,,),,,
MacNelll. president of tho Sinn Fein
volunteers, who last week wns found
guilty of complicity In the Irish revolt,
hns been scntonced to llfo Imprisonment
nnd the sentence has been confirmed.
HAPPEN NGS IN
THE STATE OF
urn tn n
If I-hi Will
Local Items of Interest from
All Parts of the Green Moun
tain State Condensed So That
He Who Runs May Read.
THE HEWS BY COUNTIES
From the Island in the Lake to
the Passumpsic, Along Otter
Creek and Shores of White
River. Covered by Our Special
Correspondents.
MIDDLELMJRY.
Under tho auspices of the Fortnightly
club Prof. E. C. Biyant will give a lec
ture on "The Phvslcal Basis of Music,"
at the phjslcal h' ture 10 .m In Warner
Science hall Monday, June .". at 4:1.1 p. m
The members of the Century club and
Essay club will be the guests ot the
Fortnlghtiy club. Tbunigh the courtesy
of Leonard .eeman. who tcturned from
his native home, Holland, on Apill 12,
there are displayed in the show window
of F. A. Evans' shoe store three pairs
of wooden shoes such as are worn In that
country. Two pairs of these aio for
adults nnd one for a child, the
latter handsomely larved. The con
dition of Prof. Thomas E. Boyce
Is reported as somewhat Improved. A. V
Rns mond of Auburn, N. Y., Is in town.
This is Mr. Raymond's first visit In 41!
years. Mr. and Mis. J. G. Pago nf Bris
tol aro r arents of a daughter. The banns
of marriage were published for the flrii
time Sunday between William Farrell
and Miss Amanda E. Ftrland, both of
Mlilillebnry, at St. Mary's Church. Prot
and Mrs. C. B. Wilght and daughter.
Miss Marjorle Wright, who have necn !n
Florida and Washington slnco early In
March, havo returned and opened their
home. Prof. McGiegor Minns, who spent
the winter In New York, has rcturnel
and opened his homo on Washington
street. His family will arrive some tlmo
this week. Mr. and .M.-s. Ilebert Sumner
are moving from the Robert Thomas
house on Seminary street to the home
of their daughter, Mrs. George Kidder,
on Water street. L. O. Allen Is
moving his harness shop to his stable
ind Is teinodelliig the shop Into a tene-
ment. William .Moiiugn nas leuimen
from Ausable Forks, N. Y.. where he has
been for a week visiting bis ulster. Mrs
larenco Pago. Mr. and Mrs. George E.
Marshall, Miss Clara Mn.'s'iall and E. A.
linger of Albany, N. Y.. have gone to
Montreal for a few days' stay. George
Chaffee Is having a new- gnrage built .it
his home on Washington street Mr. and
LMrs. George Brooks of Boston have ar
rived and will spend some time with Mrs.
Brooks' brother, Frank LaPan. Mrs.
Jennie M. Crosby nnd daughter, Marlon.
went to Burlington Saturday to visit Mrs
Crosby's sister, Mrs. George Gipon, nt
the Mary Fletcher hospital. John L.
Blrchnrd anil John C. Stokes, who have
been visiting friends here, have returned
to Phoreham. Arthur Lyman has pur
chased a house and lot in Brandon nnd
with bis family will take possession
June 1. The repairs which havo been
In progiess for some time on the Martin
house, formerly known as1 the James
Roach house, on Weybrldje street, have
been completed nnd William La Rock Is
moving there with his family from the
Wales house on Seymour street. Mr. and
Mrs. Oliver Chllson bnve returned from
Vergennes, Mrs. II. W. Jones has gone
to Manchester to attend the funeral of
M.-s. L. H. Ilcnlnwny, a cousin, of
Honolulu. II I.
The funeral of the week-old child
of Mr. and Mrs. Herman Kearle of
South Pleasant street, which died Sun
day morning, wns held Monday after
noon at two o'clock. Dr. Corkran of
ficiated and burial was In the Foote
street cemetery. Memorial Sunday
was observed with appropriate exer
cises In the town hall at 2:30 o'clock.
The exercises opened with prayer by
Dr. D. II. Corkran, followed by nn ad
dress by Prof. Ttnymond Mclarland,
who tool; for his text, "Whero Thero
Is No Vision the People Perish." The
exorcises closed with benediction by
Dr. Corkran. Tho Mayfalr War Re
lief held a well attended meeting at
tho homo of Mrs. J. A. Fletcher Mon
day afternoon. Earl E, Pclsuo of Rut
land has entered tho employ ot Frost
pharmacy. Ho Is a graduate of tho
Massachusetts College of Pharmacy
and has been associated with the pre
scription departments of E. G, Mc
Clellan and tho Trudell Drug com
pany of Rutland. Charles il. Turner
nf North Adams Mass., n natives
nnd former long time resident
in MlddliV'Urj, is vlsltlm, friends
111 this town nnd
Rlpton. -George
W. Arthur, who has been vis
iting In town for a week, hns return
ed to Mnlone, N. Y. Mrs, Cyrus Stone,
ilnugther nnd sou, who havo been vis
iting In town for a few days, havo re
turned to Brandon. Mr. and Mrs.
Arthur Fields of West Rupert aro In
town for two weeks. A son wns born
to Mr. and Mrs. Leon Wiley of Man
chester Sunday morning at tho homo
of her parents, Mr. nnd Mrs. A. B.
Smith. Mr- and Mrs. Carl O. Frost and
daughter, Helen, havo returned from
an nutoniobllo trip to Burlington and
vicinity. Mrs. Carl Mullock and
daughter, Caiolliie, who have been vis
iting relatives In town for n month,
have returned to their homo In
Jamaica Plain, Muss,
The annual Ico cream festival under
the auspices of St Mnr' Church was
held In the Federation building Tuesday
afternoon and evening and drow a latfo
VERMONT
gathering. A good sum was realized fot
the benefit of tho church It has been
learned that tho body of the Infant girl,
which was found In the racks at the
Pulp mills In this village two weeks ago,
was dead before It was put In the wator
Tho cjiso Is still having tho attention ol
the authorities, however. -Mrs. Oscar
Cushniiin left May 21 for St. Louis,
Mi., to visit her sister, Mrs. Urnnlc Ruff,
for a month. Harry Smith, who recently
underwent un operation at th Rutland
city hospital, Is In town for a few days'
visit to his parents, Mr. and Mrs. A. B.
Smith ot Washington sticet. Mr. and
Mrs. Burton Thompson of New York city
nnd Dr. Ford C. I.angworthy of Wash
ington, D. C., nro In town, cnlled by th
death of the Hon. Robert Cartmell. -Mr.
nnd .Mis. Joseph Trudo and chll-
dien havo moved to Binndon, where he
has secured work with tho Vermont
Marble company. Mr. and Mrs. Jo
si ph Forest havo returned from
Proctor, where they hive been on a short
visit to their daughter, Mrs. Walter
Small. The regular monthly meeting i.t
tho Memorial Baptist Chur'-h will be held
tu the church pnrlors Thursday evening
at 7:30 and tho Rev. Roy E. Whlttlmore
will have for his theme, "How Miy We
Make. Our Christianity More Successful. '
G. H. MeCaughlln has returned from
Ticonderoga, N. A'., whero ho has spent
11 few days. William Mcltugh, who was
lulled here a few days ago by the death
of his uncle, John II. Sargent, has re
turned to Detroit, Mich.
A. D. Wright received a telegram
Wednesday morning, telling him of tho
sudden death of his brother, Walter V.
Wright, at A'lrden, Can., where ho had
been for a fow months. There wero
no details. Mr. Wright Is survived by
two daughters, Miss Leona Wilght of
Biattleboro and Miss Eva Wright of
Ouelta, N. Y and one brother, A. D.
Wright, of this village. He was .IS
years of age. Tho lemalns are ex
pected to arrive here tho last of tho
wook. As Mrs. Charles A. Lyman
was leaving tho town hall Tuesday aft-
ernoon nt the close of tho Memorial safe majority over Mrs. Samuel B.
day exercises she wns qulto badly ln- Snenth of Tiffin, Ohio. The presl
Jured when an Iron pillar, which sup- dentlal election was tho crowning event
ports tho gallery In the hall gave way
nnd fell upon her. Her left arm nnd
shoulder wero hurt. Prof. E. II.
Holmes happened to see the accident
and grasped the pillar, averting part
of tho fall. It Is thought that when ' many of the delegates from the West
tho largo audleneo rnso to leave tho and Middle West, left last night for
hulldlnfr the floor of tho auditorium their homes whilo others refrained
settled slightly and tho pillar, which from voting because of warm personal
is about six Inches In diameter, sagged 1 friendship for both candidates,
away from the gallery. Sho was taken I There were no contests in tho se
to her homo and Dr. P. L. Dorey was ! lection of representatives from each
summoned, but was unablo to find any State to the board of directors as ro
broken bones. She was badly bruised. I quired by tho revision of the bylaws
Mrs. Georgia Watson went Wednes-I Increasing tho membership of the
day to Rutalnd for a week's visit with board from fifteen to 57. Tho dlrec
her brother, Archlo C. Watson. Mrs. i tors elected Included: PennsylvaHa,
William H. Morcomb of Brldport, a Mrs. L. L. Blankcnburc: Vermont, Mrs.
former resident, Is spending a few days
In town. Miss Lula Woods, who has
been at tho home of her parents In
town, has returned to Fair Haven.
Miss Edith Saunders, who has been
In town two wiks, on a visit to her
IWO Vini-SH, Oil V1M11. Ill I1UI
rs. Mary Kndrews, has returned
home Ir. jtaranac Iiie. N. Y
1 of Spi'rVfield is In town for a
aunt, Mri
to her home
A Rnceo of Spi
few days. Mjs. Mary Andrews has
gono to Hudson Falls, N. Y., whero sho
will spend a month. Tho county of
ficials havo a forco of men at work
I putting In new walks and curblngs
i about the county court house. Mr. nnd
Mrs. Zephyr Boulla havo returned
from Ilipton, whero they havo been
nn a trout fisliing trip. .Mrs. . .
Haven, a former resi
dent nf this village, who was severely
burnt from the explosion of nn alcohol
stovo at her home uuesiiay morning.
Is reported as not as well and her
chances for recovery nro doubtful.
I'ordyce Mooro has gono to Saranac,
N. Y.. to visit his wife, who Is In a
sanatorium thero for treatment. Levi
Wlssell has gono to Saranac Lake, N.
Y where he will remain for treat
ment for some time.
VERGENNES.
At tho annual meeting of tho Ladles'
Aid society of the Methodist Episcopal
Church Friday at the home of Mr. and
Mrs. Charles M. Grandcy officers were
elected as follows: President, Mrs.
Chailes Maccabee: vlce-piesident, Mrs.
H. B. Slack: secretary, Mrs. Genrgo D.
Mlddlebrook; treasurer, Mrs. Charles M.
Grandey: parsonage committee, Mrs.
Frank Burroughs. Mrs. George V. Mld
dlebrook, Mrs. Charles M. Grandey.
The Rev, Thomas Stevenson has return
ed from Saratoga, whore he has been
attending the general conference of the
Methodist Episcopal Church, Benjamin
Fisher, who Is employed as chemist at
tho E. I. du Pont de Nemours plant at
Carney's Point, N. J., Is spending a few
days with his parents, Mr. and Mrs.
II, P. Fisher. The Ell Nnlseux property
on Main street was sold by O. F. O.
Kimball, administrator, at public auc
tion Snturdny to John M. Allien for
il.fNl, Miss MaJzle Stevenson has re
turned from Saratoga, N. Y where she
attended the general conference. Wal
lace W. Finney of Keesevllle, N. Y., Is
visiting his sister, Mrs. Marlon Bur
roughs. M'uurlco White and sister of
Brooklyn, N. Y., nre guests of Mr. and
Mrs, W. D. Woodman. Miss Edith
chjimbeilalu. who hns been receiving
tieatment for rheumatism at Bradford,
has returned much improved and re
sumed her woi It as librarian. Herbert
Burroughs and uncle, W. W. Finney,
I of Keesevllle. N. Y.. went Satuiday to
1 Charlotte to visit their brother nnd
I nephew, Ira Burroughs. Miss Lillian
1 Burroughs has returned to East Char-
lotto after a visit to her mother, Mrs.
Marlon Burroughs. Miss Rcnnh Cotcy
of Biidceport, Conn., is visiting her
parent". Mr. and Mrs. Louise Cotcy.
Miss Martha Thorn visited Mrs. Marlon
BiirroiiMliH of Waltham Friday. Mrs.
George Shea and daughter of Port
Henry, N. V., aro visiting Mrs. Cells,
Gravel.
.Miss i:iecia
spending a few
Smith of Ronton Is
ilay3 with her sister,
Mrs. Timothy Neville. Tho condition of
Mrs. William 11. Flags, who has been
111 for l weeks, Is Improved nnd sho
Is able to sit up. -Henry V. Smith, who
has been visiting her sister, Mrs. John
Donovan, and friends In town, return- '
ed Satuiday to Crown Point, N
A'.
The pupils In tho rooms of Miss Mi
Govern and Miss Bull joined with the
pupils In tho room of Miss Crosby at
tho A'crgeunos graded schools in holding
m e-mem u !al exerelsi Monilav. T
program conslhtiil of muni--, leiitatious,
illa!oi;iien and a short adilre: 3 by C. T.
S. rieiie Ceiirsu McCiien, io Is 10
celvhia; licatinent at Hays' snnllarium
In HurlltiMoii, spent Sunday at his home
heio. The condition of Alderman Arthur
W, Norton, who recently underwent an
(Continued 1111 I'nee tvto,)
BALLOTING ENDS
CONVENTION OF
31 rs. Josiah Evans Cowles of Los
Angeles Wins Presidential
Election Small Vote Cast-
Delegates Departing.
VERMONT GETS DIRECTOR
Mrs. 0. C. Ashton Elected to
Membership on Increased
Hoard Civil Service and
Dress Reform Discussed
Cheaper Clothing Urged.
New York, May 31. Supporters of
Mrs. Josiah Evans Cowles of Los
Angeles, claimed to-night on tho early
returns from tho ballotlnr; that sho
had been elected president of tho gen
eral federation of women's clubs by a
of the thirteenth blennal convention of
tho federation, which closes Friday.
Of the 2. 140 delegates not more than
1S00 vote-J, It was asserted. Tho small
vote, was ascribed to tho fact that
O. C. Ashton.
At the civil service reform conference
this afternoon, attended by more than
.".Cm women, Mrs. Frederick II. Cole of
Omaha presided as chairman. Among
the speakers were Miss Mary Garret
Hay, advisory member of tho depart
ment; Mrs. Albert II. Hlldreth, president
of the New York Statu Federation of
Women's clubs; Samuel II. Ordway. presi
dent New York State civil service com
mission; William Bruce Ellison, counsel
to civil service forum, this city, and
others.
Women's dress reform In all Its phases
was discussed at a conference of tho
homo economics committee, of whMi
Miss Helen Ivoulso Johnson of Water
town. N. Y., Is chairman. Manufacturers
told the large audleneo of delegates and
visitors that it is to their advantage ta
have a standardized street dress and thev
admitted that It is possible If women
will it to rut dress bills down by half,
and even more. Other speakers assert d
that it Is possible for women to dress
not only well, but with distinction, at 3
cost of not less than $3 and not mora
than $19 per dress.
FRANKLIN PHYSICIANS.
County .Medical tocletr Addressed lit
Ir. .1. -V. .leiine of HiirllnRtou.
St. Albans, May 31. About 3.1 physicians
attended tho annual meeting of the
Franklin County Medical society at the
St. Albans hospital to-day. At the morn
ing session Dr. W B. Arnold of this city
gave an obituary of the lato Dr. John Gib
son of St. Albans. The secretary was In
structed to write tho Vermont senators
and congressmen at Washington endors
ing resolution of tho Southern Medical
society and asking the Intlucnce ot th
Vermont delegation In securing necessary
legislation. Tho names of Dr. Hanson
of East Berkshire and Dr. II. D. Warden
of Montgomery Center were presented for
membership.
Dinner wns served at The Tavern and
nt the meet this afternoon Dr. J N.
Jenno of Burlington gave an address on
"Souio Observations on the Diagnosis ot
Certain Obscure Diseases of the Upper
Abdomen." The talk was Illustrated
with sliiles under tho direction of Dr 3.
L. Morrison of Burlington. A brief cllnlo
followed.
The election of officers resulted as fol
lows: President, Dr. E. A. Hyatt ol
St. Albans; vice-president, Dr. Johnson o
Franklin: secretary and treasurer, Dr. W.
J. Upton of St. Albans; censors, Dr Ar
thur Morton of St, Albans, Dr. E. M.
Brown ot Sheldon nnd Dr. Herbert L,
Pierce of Swnnton; delegates to tho na
tional convention. Dr. Alan Davidson of
St. Albans, Dr. E. R. Lnpe of Swanton,
Dr. It. B. Thomas of Enosburg Falls, Dr.
AV. II. Wright of Georgia; alternates,
Dr. E. A. Hyatt of St. Albans, Dr. J, R
Patton of Fairfield, Dr. R. M. Pelton ot
Rlchford and Dr. Watson W. Hutchlnsoo
of Enosburg Falls.
Sheldon IJarns Rurn.
Sheldon, May 31. -Lightning struck tin
hnp-, of Joseph Dciosla about l:r0 o'clock
o..toiday afternoon, and burned th
ci'W and horse barn together wlthanewtop
cairlagc, three wagons, nnd about threi
H ns of hay. The loss Is estimated at
11,5.11) and there was Insuranco of JKW.
FISHING TRIP EXPENSIVE.
Rutland, May 31. A Memorial day
I fishing trip at Lake Bomoseen cos!
James Klngsley of this city, age 1
years, $1.1, In city court to-day. He
and his companion, Francis Dunn, lit,
1 spent most of their holiday out In a
rowboat, but they neglected to rami
llarize themselves with A'ermont's fish
nnd game laws beforo taking out their
rods. When Deputy Fish and Game
Warden James Pllanlelln of this city
happened along ho discovered two black;
bass In n mess of porch in their craft
nnd, as the season for bass docs not
open until Juno 15, he summoned them
to appear In city court to-day,
WOMEN'S BS
