Py-
10 PAGES!
ESTABLISHED 54.
THE PRIMARY ELECTION
Next Monday will Determine Who
are the Successful Candidates.
Democrats are all Good.
Next Monday is the primary elec
tion. On the democratic side of the
house there are no contests for the
nomination on the state ticket, and
the gentlemen whose names appear
on the ticket headed by that peerless
democrat E. T. Meredith for gover
nor, will be nominated without oppo
sition, and on the county ticket there
are but three offices on the democrat
ic ticket for which there are more
than one candidate, clerk of the
courts, sheriff and county recorder.
On the democratic county ticket
Frank A. Garber of Center township,
a solid substantial farmer, who will
represent the taxpayers of the coun
ty, will be the nominee for represen
tative in the legislature, and the
probabilities are that he will be elect
ed at the November election over any
of the republican candidates who se
cure the nomination, there being five
republican candidates for the nomi
nation, and it is hardly likely that
any of them will receive the required
Ji5 per cent of the vote, and the
nomination will have to go to the
county convention. The republican
candidates are C. C. Dye, of Lineville,
Grant Mallory of Davis City, \V. A.
Poush and Chas. W. Keeder of Leon,
and B. M. Russell of Lamoni.
County auditor Walter Osborn who
has filled this office so acceptably to
everybody for the past two years will
be renominated by the democrats
without opposition, and he will be
re-elected by the voters of the county
again in November.
That sterling life long democra-,
J. A. Weldon, of Xew Buda township,
For clerk' of the district court,
will be the strongest candidate.
TIIPVP
-UP tiii-pp findiiliies for the
meie die thiee candidates toi the
mocratic nomination tor shenft, f. „fK,.0 i,..u i,M„
aemo
John
of Leon, and Charles
Bloomington
all been
capture the nomination, and which
ever one is nominated is going to be
elected as the next sheriff of Decatur
county. John A. Fulton is one of
the l.opular young business men of
Leon, a member of the grocery firm
of Giinam & Fulton. He is a sterling
young democrat, and has all the en
dowments to. make a good sheriff.
hn A. Fulton and E. W. Hamilton °fllce
inn rmvnshi., m'd thp'v have
nial-fnJ it'rnm' effort to
He made the race on the democratic
also a Decatur county lady, daughter
of W. R. Moore of Leon, a life long
democrat. She has been employed
for many years as a teacher in the
Leon public schools, and is very pop
ular in Leon. She enjoys a large
selected as candidates for this county
office, and either of them can fill tne
.office in a manner which will be en- I
tirely satisfactory to the general pub
lie.
There is no candidate for coroner
on the democratic ticket, and this
and taxpayers in Decatur county, and
he has no opposition for the nomina
tion, for the democrats in every part
of the county recognize in him an
ideal man for this most responsible
position.
For member of the board of super
visors for the term beginning Janu
ary 1, 11*18, the only candidate is E.
J. Wilson, one of the good democrats
of Woodland township, and that part
of the county is firm in the belief
that it is about time they had a rep
resentative on the county board
and selected Mr. Wilson as the best
candidate for the office, and they are
just as firm in their belief that he
is going to be elected in November.
Primary Election Requires a IJig Lot
of Ballots.
The Reporter office has been a
mighty busy place the past week,
the printing of the ballots for tlie
primary election next Monday com
pelling us to keep our presses run
ning night and day in order to get
them all printed in time. The vot
ers will have to do a lot of voting
this year. In addition to the four
regular primary ballots, the republi
can, democratic, progressive and so
cialist, there is this year a separate
non-partisan judiciary ballot, oil
which the names of three candidates
for supreme judges appear. The law
requires that the non-partisan judic
iary ticket be printed on each of the
political party ballots, and it is also
13 the only democratic nominee for jHitiorial amendment to be ^ted on, have been made.
countv treasurer, and he will receive which requites a sepaiate ballot Ninth, that we demand a more
the heartv support of every democrat Pointed on yellow papei, and this economical administration of all pub
it the county. I requires a separate ballot box. Then business and a decrease in the
1 ten ie
there are two candidates on the aiate ballot for assessoi had to be taxation may be reduced.
democratic ticket, Chas. W. Kelley, Panted on account of part of the Tenth, that we are unalterably op
of Richland township, and Clarence voters being residents of incorporat-
Skinner, of Fayette township. They towns, and they can not vote for burden of taxation will be increased,
are both clean cut, competent young township assessors, Ihe judges I Eleventh, that,we commend the
•men, very popular in their home com-,clerks of the piimary election lowa Homestead and J. M. Pierce
inunities, and no mistake can be ha\e an unusual amount of woik for the bold stand they have taken
made in nominating either of them. counting out this year, and to drive graft lrom the state house,
They have made a gentlemanly can- f'ie returns will he slow in coming jjes Moines.
vass, and the only question to be de-
in-
cided is which one the voters believe deli\eied to county auditor al- gaii Center Thursday evening of this
tliem and
lnit
U1J the
lieg for th various
te
Will Tile His Farm.
necessary to have a separate non
partisan ballot, so that in case there trict where they are owned.
might be some voter who was not Seventh, resolved, that we are in
willing to be allied with either ofj favor of abolishing the offices of the
the four political parties, and regis-'state Highway Commission and Coun
tered as such, could still vote a non-* ty Engineer and are opposed to the
partisan judiciary ballot, but we
1
doubt very much whether there will to attend to the farmers' business,
be a single one of these tickets used I Eighth, that our county supervis
in Decatur county. I
S. C. Bradford, the Des Moines I
njua wj10
ticket two years ago against sherift oecatur county land, will ship a num-1 Good.
Lorey lor his second term and polled )jer
0f Cars
a mighty fine vote. L. \V. Hamilton (j]e ^jie bis farm which he purchased I
is also a business man of Leon, liav- northeast of Leon from C. M. Akes. ing gives us more pleasure than to
ing been engaged in the implement ^jr Bradford was here last week, and note the success of some old time
business in this city for the past two visited the farm of J. E. O'hair, near heon boy who has gone out into the
ears, prior to which he was a farm- van Wert, and saw what a success world and from whom we hear good
er. He is a fine young man, and if tiling was. Mr. O'hair has tiled his reports. About ten years ago a Leon
nominated will receive the support big fafni, and as it is pretty flat land, boy, Charles Sliumway, le'ft Leon
of all the democrats and many of the but mighty good when not too wet, and went to Polk county where he
republicans of this county. Chas. R. jie tiled the farm, and is more than taught school for three years, then
P'.ercy, the third candidate, is well pleased with the result. L. M. Mann, moved to California where he engag
known by most of the people of De-
wj10
catur county. He is a successful and township, has just completed the then entered the ministry, and has
prominent farmer of Bloomington work of putting in nine miles of tile been preaching for nearly seven
township, and no man stands higher
on
js
arm
in the community. He made the
race against sheriff Lorey four years
ago, his opponent being one of the
most popular men in Decatur county,' News of the death of Otis Green, sity on June 8th
Otis Green Died Tuesday.
and he gave him,a close race for the a life prisoner at Ft. Madison, was graduates Rev. Shumway, accompan
office. If nominated, Mr. Piercy and received in this city yesterday, and ied by his wife (who will be remem-'
his friends are fir^ in the belief that his body will arrive in Leon today bered as Miss Ruth Sanger, daughter
he will be elected^this .time. for interment. Otis Green was rais-i of Mr. and Mrs. Geo. W. Sanger of.
For the office of county recorder ed in Leon, and a number of years'Leon) and two sons, together with a
there are two ladies who are candi- ago shot his wife to death in Des preacher friend, will start in an auto
dates for this office, Mrs. Mabel Judd Moines and then attempted to kill: from Los Angeles to make the trip
Arnold of Garden Grove, and -Miss himself, but only succeeded in shoot- across the continent to Boston, where
Hallie V. Moore, of Lieon. Mrs. Ar- in§ °ut both of his eyes. He was he will attend the Boston University,
nold is a daughter of the late Newton convicted of murder and sentenced to They expect to take about two months
Judd, was born and raised in Deca- life imprisonment. He became con- for the trip, enjoying themselves en
tin- county, and for several years has verted and for a number of years route, and make brief visits with
been employed as a teacher in the lias been working to secure a pardon relatives and friends in Nebraska, at
Garden Grove public schools. It is with the avowed intention of enter-j Leon and Chicago. Rev. Shumway I
said that if she is nominated there i»S the lecture field in the interest has many friends in Leon who will be
will be very few votes in that part of temperance. pleased to see him again.
of the county which will be cast
against her, either republican or High School Commencement
democrat. She is a lady who com
mands the respect and esteem of all
who know
ing a strong
tion. Her opponent, Miss Moore, is
The commencement exercises for
11
acquaintance over the county, and if j"*'2rj5
nominated will make a hard fight to
be elected. Two more estimable or
deserving ladies could not have been ®10n-
Each of them have a number of serve their annual decoration day
warm friends who are assisting them ceremonies on next Sunday after
in their candidacy. noon, June 4th. All members are
County attorney Geo. W. Baker requested to meet at the lodge room
has no opposition for renomination at 1:30 o'clock. Appropriate services
for the customary second term. He will be held and the graves of the
stands on his record, and everybody Odd Fellows buried in the Leon ceme
Vin Decatur county knows he is one of tery will be decorated with flowers
Jthe best prosecuting attorneys in the
state of Iowa.
nomination can be filled either by the commencement exercises in the high
voters or by the county convention. school room on Thursday afternoon
i) For member of the board of sup
ervisors for the term beginning Jan
uary 1, 1917, the democratic candi-
oate is W. H. Colter, of Decatur town- liver an address. A small admission
p, one of the largest landowners charge will be asked.
Then there is the suffrage consti-! tnose purposes only for wliicii levies
election precincts a sep- number of oiiiciais to the end that
1
mi„illv
h,lb
alb°
In
bee nught bl!b
l)rintinS
posed to any scheme whereby the
Alter the ballots were printed There will be a meeting at Mor-
ter Osborn he had to count all of week. Mr. John Garber will give a
igue
e'ection sup- talk on the working of the Leagiu
townships and commencing at S m.
h„c,-1 7,
5
Pip-cv of l,lace- day at the court house at 2 p. in.,
tlie
ballots for use at'
llL,x
1
l)rimar' election next Monday it every candidate for representative
"I"t was aecessary for the Printer to and supervisor of county and state
print Ai2 different forms, with from officers stand in regard to hard stir-!
I 00 to GOO tickets of each form. The facing of roads.
total number of ballots of all kinds x0w this organization is strictly
required by law to be printed is non-partisan so every one interested
-•".775, come out next Saturday and hear!
how the men who we vote for at the't
primary stand.
owns a big farm in High Point ed in teaching for three years, and
boys
ing class.
Prof. C. W. Wassam, of the Iowa
University, will deliver the address.
talented along the line of music and
will furnish the music for the oc-ca
Admission 25 and 15 cents.
Secure your tickets at Cherrington's.
Odd Fellows Decoration Sunday.
Eighth Grade Commencement.
The eighth grade pupils of the
Leon public schools will hold their
at 2:30. The class will give the fine
program which they havo prepared,
after which V. R. McGinnis will de-
He is considered one of the best of bo on their guard and see that good
democrats, tried and true are voted
for as delegates to the county conven-1
tion and for the office of party com
mitteeman. When you go to the pri
mary to vote next Monday vote for
men who will not be led around by
The Odd Fellows lodge will ob- T)c.c Revnolds or Nick Reed Thev
THE LEON REPORTER.
LEON, IOWA, THURSDAY, JUNE 1, 1916.
ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS
Tax Payers League Define Their Po
sition and Insist that Candi
dates Make Known Theirs.
The second meeting of the Decatur
County Tax Payers League was held
in the court house Saturday at 2 p.
m. The constitution and by-laws
were read and adopted.
The resolutions of the League were
then read singly, discussed and
adopted. They were as follows:
First, resolved, that we are oppos
ed to centralization of power and fav
or local self-government and home
rule.
Second, that we refuse to support
any candidate for the legislature or
county supervisor who favors or has
favored hard surfacing or paving the
county highways.
Third, that we are opposed to any
bond issue tor raising funds to pay
for such roads either by state or
county.
Fourth, that thoroughly drained
and thoroughly dragged earth roads
are the best possible for Iowa con
ditions and we ardently support ev
ery practical effort toward making
and maintaining such roads.
Fifth, resolved, that we are in fa
vor of building better roads by elim
inating the present red tape methods.
Sixth, resolved, that all automo
biles should be assessed in the dis-
appointment or election of any agent
Qrs
should expend public money for
he next meeting will be on Sauir
Wlien
the report will be given of how
jlag been'buying so much Another Old Leon Hov Who Mas Made
of tile here at once and
AS
R. L. Rumley, Sec.
we have frequently stated, notli-!
years. Since going to California he
has taken two college courses in the
University of Southern California,
and will graduate from the Univer-
1
Shortly after he
Watch Out Democrats.
It is reported that the Leon post-
iris to receive diplo- cratic convention which is favorable
eon largest graduat- to her friend, Dr. J. \vr. Reynolds,
the gentleman who misrepresents
the democrats of Decatur county and
the eighth district. Democrats should
Nick Reed and his cohorts. Decatur
unty democrats have no use for
are the fellows who refused
to listen
to the protests from the democratic
party in Decatur county, and boasted
they would appoint the present post
master even if it wrecked the demo
cratic party. Remember this when
yon vote for delegates and party
committeemen.
Marriage Licenses.
Clarence Lent, Beaconsfield 25
Birdie A. Bryant, Grand River 19
Truman T. Beck, Grand River,'. 25
Inez L. Foster, Grand River..... 22
James Dunn, Nickerson, Kas "...68
Mrs. Sarah Dorsey, Decatur 66
W. L. Banker, Murray 19
Blanche P. DeLong, Osceola' ...17
IDIiH HOIK SPECIALS.
'The Vellow Passport" for Friday,
and ".V Fool There Was"
lor Monday
Two big feature plays are on the
bill at the popular Idle Hour theatre
for the coming week. On Friday
Clara Kimball Young, appears In
"The Yellow Passport," the great
Russian drama. Her family destroy
ed by massacre and i.erself persecut
ed, Sonia Sokoloff in desperation,
obtains from the police a license
such as is issued to the Russian wom
en of the night. With this license as
her protection she endures the ig
nominitv as a supposedly immoral
woman, while in reality leading a
pure life. Escaping from her perse
cutors she comes to America to pur
sue her operatic ambitions. Success,
wealth and love come to her, but
her lover and his family discover the
secret of "The Yellow Passport." In
the end Sonia triumphs, but not until
her soul has been ractced with the
torture of suspicion and false accusa
tion. Matinee at I! o'clock, first
iTight show at
7:1"..
Prices 10 and
1 .j cents.
On Monday will be seen Robert
Milliard's greatest success, "A Fool
There Was," featuring Edward Jose
and Theda Bara, tlie latter in her
famous cast as the "Vampire." Miss
Bara is perhaps the mosi famous and
most hated of all the movie actress
es. She is entirely different from
any of them, and in this presentation
adapted from Rudyanl Kipling's
famous poem, she appears at her
best. The leaders are supported by
an exceptionally strong cast, includ
ing little Rjina Hodges, the clever
child actress. Usual o'clock mati
ness and first evening show at 7:15.
Prices 1 0 and 1 5 cents.
(•un Clul) Shoot.
The newly organized Leon Gun
'Club held their first regular shoot at
their grounds on* the C. W. Hoffman
farm just north of Leon Tuesday af
ternoon, eighteen shooters partici
pating. The shooters were divided
into five squad teams and each had a
chance to try and break 25 blue
rocks. Some of the boys were con
siderably out of practice, and tliey
all expect to lie able to make better
scores in the future. The high man
in each squad then shot against each
other, and in the final shoot off A. F.
Radnicli defeated Frank Mallette.
The following is the individual
scores of each man out of a possible
2 5:
Leo Hoffman 10
Carl Monroe 12
C. E. Stuber 12
C. W. Lloyd 15
Ralph Stewart. 12
J. W. Hurst IS
Dr. II. R. Layton 14
H. L. Long 8
F. G. Mallette Hi
John Cowl
G. W. Manning 1 0
A. F. Radnicli 14 I
R. M. Teale 14
Walter Osborn 8
E. .Tacobsen 11
Dr. J. O. Woodniansee 5
Dr. F. G- llume (i
F. L. Barrett (15 birds) 1
In the shoot off of the tie of the
third squad Radnicli scored and
Teale 2 out of 5 birds. In the shoot
oft' of high man in each squad at
birds, Lloya scored 3, Mallette 4,
Radnicli 4, Hume 2. In the final shoot
Radnicli won scoring 3 to F. G. Mal
lette's 2.
At the conclusion of the shoot, E.
H. Carver, a farming living down in
Woodland township, asked if he
could try his hand, and the gun
club boys told him to go ahead, and
he did, breaking the first eighteen
blue rocks, then missed one, and
finished his score by breaking
more, making a score of 24 out of 2
shots. The Leon bays say Eben has
been shooting rabbits in the brush
down in Woodland, until he can
curve his shots like a base ball
pitcher.
Sorosis Club Elects Officers.
At the regular meeting of the Sor
osis Club held last week the follow
ing officers were elected for the en
suing year:
President—Mrs. J. J. Evans.
Vice President—Mrs. J. JH. Chas
tain.
Equal Suffrage Meeting.
1
Secretary—Mrs. M. \Voodard.
Treasurer—Mrs. Winfield Cash.
Historian—Mrs. W. A. Alexander.
Miss Mabel Horner of Decatur
county, Iowa, will, on next Friday!
evening, June 2, at the court house
in Leon, speak in favor of equal suf
frage, and reply to the anti-suffrage
speech of Miss Price of New York, I
made in the court room at Leon on
May 26th. Those who heard Miss
Price are especially invited to hear
Miss Horner.
Material Arriving for
Depot.
New Freight'
Material is being unloaded for the
new freight depot at the Leon sta
tion. The new freight house will be
located just across Main street from
the passenger station, and work will
be commenced on it at once.
Gun Club Meeting.
There will be a meeting of the
members of the Leon Gun Club at the
Exchange National Bank Friday ev
ening, June 2, at 8 o'clock. Import
ant business. Carl Monroe, Pres.
Equal Suffrage Meetings.
Hon. V. R. McGinnis will speak at
Grand River Thursday evening, June
1st, and at Woodland on Friday even
ing, June 2nd.
Vote for Amos P. Olseh for county
attorney.—Political Advertising.
TWENTVFIVE YEARS AGO
Items Taken from the Files of The
Reporter Published a Quarter
of a Century Ago.
The old stage barn on 9th street is
being torn down.
A meeting will be held at the court
house on Friday evening to take
steps toward securing a new flour
mill which W. II. Clark and sons, of
Davis City, contemplate erecting in
this city.
The following marriage licenses
have been issued uie past week:
Edward B. Clienoweth zt to Olive
S. Mitchell 24.
W. H. Hand 23 to Prudence C.
Strong 1!).
J. T. Grimm 21 to Laura Warn
staff 2S.
J. L. Carlton 23 to Armeda mitli
1 G.
F. J. Taylor's circus is billed to
show at Leon on Friday the litth.
Little Raymond Hurst got hold of
a vessel containing kerosene last
Saturday and drank quite a lot of it.
His parents were greatly alarmed but
the little fellow suffered no ill effects
from it.
Col Ketcham has been granted a
helper at the "Q" depot. Arthur
Owen has received the appointment
and commenced work last Monday.
He will move his family here from
Garden Grove as soon as he can se
cure a house.
•Airs. Jennie Haskett and -Miss Hat
tie left yesterday for Salem, lowa,
where Mrs. Haskett's yougest sister,
Miss Birdie Lester, graduates. They
will probably visit relatives at Salem
the most of the summer.
Prof. M. Shoenert, of Ilumeston,
has decided to locate in Leon. He
moved his family here Mond-iy and
is occupying the Armstrong property
on west Commercial street recently
purchased by S. W. Hurst.
Creed Bobbitt returned from Des
Moines last Saturday where he had
been for several weens in the interest
of his electric motor spark arresting
compound.
J. F. and J. E. Penniwell and J. C.
F. Givens went to Ilumeston the
first of the week to work on the new
Normal College building.
Memorial Day l-.xeivises.
Tuesday was an ideal day for the
observance of .Memorial Day, but the
fine weather prevented many from
the country from coming to Leon, as
it was necessary for the farmers to
work in their corn fields on account
of being behind with their work.
The exercises were held in the
opera house which was well filled, the
program as published last week be
ing carried out. The speaker of the
day was Rev. J. G. Duling, pastor of
the M. E. church at Garden Grove,
and lie made one of the finest Mem
orial addresses ever heard in this
city, fie is a fine speaker and paid a
glowing tribute to the memory of the
departed heroes. At the conclusion
of the ceremonies at the opera house,!
the G. /\. R. Post and W. R. ('., to
getlier with many citizens and school,
children went to the cemetery where:
the graves of the departed soldiers!
and members of the W. R. C. were,
decorated with flowers, this work be-'
ing done by a bevy of little girls.
There are 102 soldiers buried in the
Leon cemetery. I
IX'catnr County Sunday School Con
vention Xevt Week.
The annual convention of the De
catur County Sunday School Associa
tion which convenes at the Methodist
church in Leon on next Tuesday,
June litli, for a two days session will
bring a large number of the Sunday
school workers of the county to Leon
and the local committees are work
ing hard to make it a success. A
big parade, with the various Sun
day schools, floats and autos will be
one feature of the convention. This
parade will lie held on Wednesday
evening. A number of state workers
and speakers will be in attendance at
the convention. The complete pro
gram was published last week.
Left on Long Auto Trip.
Mr. and Mrs. W. H. Ilazlet, son
William and daughter, Mrs. Otto
Weisley, of Eden township, departed
last Thursday in their new Ford auto
for a trip to Weldon, Kansas, where
they will visit their daughter, Mrs.
George Starks. After a visit there
Mr. Hazlet and William will auto to
Colorado, where Air. "Hazlet recently
purchased a large farm. They took a
camping outfit with them and will
travel just as their fancy suits, and
expect to have a line outing trip.
Sugar and Coffee Stolen.
Tuesday night some fellow who
was bothered by the high cost of liv-j
ing, proceeded to reduce it by steal
ing 150 pounds of sugar and 15
pounds of coffee from a granary on
the farm of L. T. Greenland, a well
known farmer of RU'hland township.
The coffee and sugar had just been
received a few days previous by Mr.
Greenland and the packages had not
been opened. There is no clue to the
burglary.
Eighth Grade Commencement.
The eighth grade commencement
will be on Thursday, June 1st, as
2:30 at the High School building in
the assembly room. A musical pro
gram will be given by the members
of the class, also a class history. The
address to the class will be by Hon.
R. McGinnis. The presentation
of diplomas will be by Capt. J.. D.
Brown, president of the school board.
Admission 10c.
Vote for Amos P. (Msen for county
jttorney.—Political Advertising.
VV''W!.!*f*
10 PAGES
VOLUME LXII, NO. 42.
Pushing Work on Xew Addition to
A force of work men are pushing
the work on the new addition to Alex
ander Bros.' garage on east Commer
cial street. The addition will join
their garage on the east, the addi
tion being 64x9G feet, and when com
pleted it will give them a garage
building 108 feet wide and 9ti feet
deep. Big arches will be cut in the
east wall of the present garage so
that cars can be moved to any part
of the building. A fine new front
will be built with two big display
windows and when the new building
is completed it will be one of the
largest and best garage buildings in
tiie state. Alexander Bros, have been
greatly hampered for room at their
garage which has been crowded with
cars at all times, but when the new
addition is completed they will be
equipped to furnish storage for a
large number of cars, and will also
have additional room for their repair
department, which is in charge of T.
W. Colby, one of the best mechanic
ians in the state, and he has several
good assistants so they are prepared
to handle any kind of work.
Xearly Missed Their Commencement
Invitations.
The graduating class of the Leon
High School were considerably work
ed mi the past week over their com
mencement invitations, l-or some
unknown reason the class gave the
order for the invitations to a smooth
tongued agent of an Albany, X. Y.,
house, not giving either of the Leon
printing offices who donate columns
of space each year to the schools even
a chance to submit a bid for the work,
but finally after keeping the tele
graph wires iiot they were received
less than a week before commence
ment. Either of the Leon printing
oliices could have supplied these com
mencement invitations as cheap or
cheaper than the Albany house had
they been given an opportunity, and
the work would have been delivered
in ample time. We suppose the Al
bany house will send a representative
here to write up the commencement
week exercises for the class.
Sheep Dip in His Lye.
G. L. Sage, one of our good farm
er friends residing a few miles south
west of Leon, met with a peculiar ac
cident one day last week, which came
very near costing him an eye, and he
has suffered greatly from the acci
dent. Mr. Sage was opening a can
of sheep dip to use on his farm, and
when he punched a hole in the lid
the dip squirted out and some of it
struck him in the right eye. There
is considerable carbolic acid, creosote
and other drugs in sheep dip which
are very powerful, and his eye was
badly burned. His physicians think
they can save the sight however, and
Gid will open sheep dip with a ten
foot pole hereafter.
Armless Man Driving a Ford.
The spectacle of a man without
arms, using two iron hooks for hands,
driving a Ford car and handling it
as well as anyone, attracted consider
able attention in Leon Monday morn
ing. The driver was Mr. M. E. Fer
ris, of Clarinda, who lost both his
hands and part of his arms while
employed as an electrician, by com
ing in contact with a live electric
light wire. Mr. Ferris gave an ex
hibition of how lie dressed himself,
ate his meals, lighted and held a ci
gar, and many other accomplish
ments. He is driving over the coun
try giving exhibitions and selling
post cards.
Swat the l{ooster.
The week commencing Monday,
June 5th, has been designated by the
poultry houses in this section as
Rooster week. During this week they
will pay an extra price for roosters,
and are asking the co-operation of
all poultry raisers, asking them to
swat the roosters by removing their
male birds from their laying hens
and either confine them or sell or.
kill them. The eggs will be unfertile
and will keep much better than fer
tile eggs, and the poultry buyers will
not have to throw out so many rots.
Do your part the coming week and
swat the roosters.
"The Strange Case of Mary Page."
The eleventh episode of tlie serial
"The Strange Case of itiary Page,"
will be shown at die Idle Hour the
atre today. With every reel of this
thrilling serial the interest grows
keener. Henry Walthall, wno plays
Philip Langdon, takes command of
the situation and leads the chase af
ter the slayer of Dave
POIIOCK.
Hot
on the trail of a weird clue Mr.
w'althall goes seeking evidence. It's
a tlirobning tale. They're close on
the heels of the culprit. Don't miss
even one of the exciting episodes. 5
cent matinee at 3 o'clock, first night
show at 7:15.
County Auto liuii.
B. W. Garrett, clerk of the Su
preme Court, V. R. McGinnis, of
i^eon, and others, under the auspices
of the Men's Equal Suffrage League
will make an auto speaking tour of
Decatur county on Saturday, June 3,'
as follows:
Leaving Leon at 7:30 a. m. and
visiting Woodland, High Point, Gar
den Grove, LeRoy, Weldon, stopping
for dinner at Van Wert, afternoon
Grand River, Decatur, Davis City,
Pleasanton, returning to Leon for an
evening meeting after the band con-
cert-
Leon li—Osceola 1.
The Leon city base ball team went
to Osceola bunday and took .their
revenge on the Osceola team for the
defeat sustained by t^eon the pre
vious Sunday, the score being 11 to 1
in favor of
