The Marble Hill Press.
Tarm-5l.OO a "2Tar
Vol. 36.
THIKTY-SIXTII
Circulation, 1,200
Marble Hill, Missouri, Thursday, June 1, 1916.
No. 5.
r
I Forsythe was brought to Farming
! ton ami lodged iu jail, but on Mon
I day he was released on bond. Pre-
liminary hearing has not been set,
pending the result of the wounds.
ANNOIJNCKMKNT
Southeast Missouri
I know ( and of course you know, too j tt
1 hare purahaa.! Dr. A. J. Hni' trk of
drug Mid ilhin tb n-it eouit ol erk will
opn up a isiro, eleaa, up-iu-dat ilnig tur in
Dr. Hf-vrt' ol4 ind. Th building will tm wmi
thai ttwi4',A and trf u.1 iniid and nut with
frh eoal of pint and wtii Im) fltuxt up with nrm
fWtuPM. Aa rry tm knowi a drug tin
k" btvn and i In dtntaM t thin plae, and a
Dr. Srr it u nxrn of th tiro I har dmridod
to U "r th buinM
lt, fjwwa .ffW will atilt Nt torat4 in th
building and anyne kln hi i(iTtw will find
him i fh uutmi loaaUao.
t am preparing la piM my erYo, t far a
my ability wKI permit i thli ep-lty, at th
hand of th gfsrl uhh Tt. nw-ding any
thing tn tfca !m uu: frnwi in an op-l.tM
drug r iwm fdiai!y lumd to
A Determined Suicide
A man in whose clothes several
letters and papers were found bear
ing the name of Homer Crites. hurl
ed himself in front of an Iron
Mountain train near Randies station 'And wilt thi (inpr
last Wednesday morning at 7221 u"-
iiiuum in (jiaa pruluaion tor you and
land
VVhrr ,iuirf'ii gift are strewn with
iavih hand.
A country that in full, a rich and jfnuid
A any rve.r formed of iil and aaiid -
Soulheaat Miaaouri.
A land where aweet voiced
ir.if with glee
In eve ry bramble, hedwjo mw, buh and
ttf.
Good Ko'ids convention tit the court
lions'.' last Saturday. It was iu the
nature of a delegate convention,
each precinct lei;ig ullowed ten
delegates, and every part of the
county was represented. It was re
marked by several that it was the
wildtiirda I most representative body of men
eer assembled m the courthouse.
The object of the meeting whs to
lH-uutif.il and ! "ilk itioi. of bonding
I the coti M y iur road purposes, to
get ill!- smiiineni of the people in
the b.nd i'g:ie w carried by a
vote of 5 to 1, he was in a position
(o enlighten the convention iu the
very matiers ia which they were
interested. All agreed that if the
mutter could he put before our peo
ple the way it was in Wayne, or in
a similar manner, that our iieople
would supiKirt ii.
The resolutions committee, com
posed of one man from each precinct,
then retired to the count v clerk's
odice ami drew up resolutions which
irv
O Clock in l was killed iiistantlv
iys the Cape Republican. foutht Mtaaoun. jail wis u. ihe county, and to de- were unanimouslv aioptcd by that
The man had not been seen before ' " h,,re n",u ar ! "" 11 ' apporuoning the coininiKee, as well as the c.uven-
uon Thev will he formally pub
lished later, but the general plan
agreed to was that a bond issue up
to the constitutional limit should
be asked lor our limit will be
something like $lbUWK t'l.;! the
proceeds of the bond issue should
III PivtUa l,u ..... ...... ...I. , ..: J i
""'" " And im-n lovelva(;udev,Tir:,ve
the bay, Imt it is believed his name j To nM tUt h miKbt not h-..ri.. a
is Cntes. im a rani in his pocket-( knavo-
bk asked that Pearl Crites of ' And th" PM,r n,,,n- ,rom "Mn v-n
(Jemxt, Ark, lie communicated with! m'h, ",r
in case that be met with an aca-;
dent of any kind. ! 1 kn" Puuntry hre tho taner
r f u c l . , ! Their tcrain in fuli faith for well they
; Coroner L R. Schoen of Gordm- kn(,w '
vtlle held an Inquest over the UJy jTb( -(lnn. dependahiP nd
Wednesday, and the jury returned , And that bumper errata irewre to row.
a verdict that the man. supposed tO' Sc.uthoat Mi .un
be Homer Crites, bad taken his own I know a ;nl kh dpowiuof or
life by hurling himself iu front of
ra;lroi train.
The coroner's jury returned the
verdict after the engineer and other
i Riefcrr than any discovered befoi
Wherr opjx.nutmy ktHK'k at each dojr
Ad it not admitted will knock wjph
niu'-
SuthMwt Mmnouri
tnnn men had given testimony, j , kBOW . UnJ wh).r. h, t,lU,
money if i iKind issue should he
! decided upon, and other matters in
j connection with the proposition.
, The uiee-ing w.is called to order
i at 10:.'iU and Judge John Owens
elected chairman G. B Snidet was
made secretary Mr Snider stated
for ihe highway Iniard that the tie apportioned to each township
Ixwd had ineti requested by sever-j according to its assessed valuation
al to obtain the sentiment of the i of real and personal propery; that
jie-pple of the county on the bond j the proceeds of the railroad and
proposition, and mat letters of in
quiry had been mailed to every
Clarence V, Stinkard, - Zalma
s
telegrapli valuation which is more
than $31)0,000 be divided into
part of the county and that most j eight equal parts and each township
of the replies indicated that the j apportioned one part; tiial the conn
people would supttort a bond issue I ty court le requested to d sp nse
provided a satisfactory plan could j with the 25 cent road and hrHge
The engineer testified that the mao j 0o biu- graaa pturra an the year', j ;T mf T ina t,M lKple ! liiX: nml that 8 "
was sitting on the railroad tracks ; day.. j1-""1'1 ' stlll!,flwl "hat the pnn-eeds j mittee 1 selected to consist of three
and when the train got within 30 or i"W heat, cm and ctton and miio j w"1"" ,e useu to gMa advantage j men from each township which
duo mm uie roaos wouw actually ; committee will work with the coun
rram rnp yield i be built. The board concluded that ty court iu all matters in managing
the best way to get the matter i the campaign, deciding what roads
sutrteu was to call a gotxi roads shall be worked tirst,
forty car lengths of him he arose j A m',
and walked to the side of the track, j !,,
i He stood there until the train got
Southeast News.
Drwkge t making a n4. strong
puQ tot water works and the Sua
riaiaM they are elnwst sure H is
luethroinlfl
fiaaiiUa.l'aitmiau .. f
Marshal CU-proao oa last Sator-
Southet Miaaoun.
nearly even wiilj him and then.i k. ,, . ...
. , dived directly ia front of the train. . vn. many r..Ur-ea !
Tlje engine and several cars pass- A mimHer aj.p.i-..:.fc any nun
Thla Ur.d of it";f is impenaily prwtt
when he fired the first ahoi lh
third shot went through the tiegroea j om lhe ma t ffianfiling
heart and then he ainXwl down iU mily Tfe train wat stopped as
French kVatiftM th ; o PwWe and the train crew Thia
ht u h-, w , M , rV. ' rerooved the bodv from the tracks ' " Un'1 grow
...mtMUMpna, ..... ' . .. ! Whir, wnmrn arc
supervising
; convention at the county seat where ! all work and doing all things ueces-
the matter could Ije taken up ami ; sary to the end that the people
Southeam Missouri,
Thia beautiful, prprui( land I know
ideas exchanged, so it issued a call
for each ppvinct to elect ten dele
gates to a convention.
might get as good results as pos
sible for the money expended. This
committee is to be a iermanetit
itoieei from bis store.
Oo iast Saturday afternoon white
iod notified eounty authorities.
I' The man app ;rd to he about 33 ' a
years ot age, was well dressed and
was believed to have hern sober.
,ta rtM1 Will Turner on a charge W tt. Mclm of dm uirr i .a.
of vkOating the tarai lotion Uw. At Mo. was in town, he called in to seeL A ,r,"m wf . 10
IVarl'
prftty and Hir. aa
now;
U'e It if ti"")" know, all men would
NoTf J. P. Campbell is editor of
rie stated tnat in the meantime i one. and will work without com
petitions had Jieen circulated asking pensation. This committee will
that the proposition be submitted for
a vtte, and tout about 500 taxpay
ers had signed the petitions which
were in the hands of the board,
fhese petitioners reside in every
triatrial m afoooay onore mure us. a tew uays ago he had bren to ! . . . t 'K , , ,. . , part of the countv He stated that
t,ruWhe 'Mel e-uiltr srvlihis neighbor Air hw h i the ctoner s itKjuest was held has a reputation in the state for " ' u
6oei$2W0. He is now working jit White there Mr freth toukl1 " Way aftef.:wn.ing several short t,ems of much
tt oot otf the streets of the city him to an old apple tree mooater 1 " I H"
l,. ..A doctor near Randies heanl that i The poem printed herewith was
Frwur,fVa Jm. ' r '" ami ;usi 10
''... ... i. . i - i . . i t ; . . i.,iFt C., , 1. ....... HI
. ! m Kid k . . t uwr mau nati a ormner iivine at . i"r .'oiot-fisi itiiwun - ; "" n w oiim w i-mu
mm tjt flat River barated J m " ,n ,m mciuo : , ... It was ordered Uiat the delegates : ih, Tw..,t,u f..... ,r,,,i i,.t ;
w.. . ------ t:ii i . . . uuirsvuir BiKi nr wm oe comniuai- nnn lumiiii; n i- jwu t " "" 11
himeif Saturday evcimg in a sI , ' - "ZJ "7' " & o resp,.nse is reived April 2R. and was read by Mr Camp-
they would not lie presented to the
court unless the convention con
cluded that it would lie wise to do
so. Alter some further discussion
meet within a few days and make
(iefmite plan of a campaign.
Taken all in all, the meeting
showed that our people are inter
terested in good roads. That they
have come to the conclusion that
the only way to get them is to pay
for them, every man imying his
share in proportion to what he is
worth. And it is evident that when
. . .i , .
.,., ,hn th U.iv Wiiii ine groutw. ana lounu u
found The suk-ide was about
year ukt worked about the mines,
awl leaves a wife awl rhiid aUH a
hb great surprise that it tmwtiml!
9 feet and lOiix hesinctrrumferewe j
Some of the Urn ha on the tree are !
year
,l Forte i said to havej 'hameter That t:k ,lfly, 8tvx.aej
j from the message sent to Arkansas, hell there Cape Girardeau Repuhli-
4 ranch la the Face
The editors of the Torchlight who, r the V oters of Hollinger
through our column from week to County
"Home Boy- Marble Hill. Mo . May 30, 191t.
. . . i. . i - .
man eacn townsnip ana each pre- a movement in which all classes
cinct mtvt and discuss the matter j from all parts of the county are
among themselves, and report at ! ; interested, and that we will get
one o'clm k to the convention. It j value received for what we spend,
was also agreed that each precinct 1 the issue will tie carried
!,.,, ,1,1 ...,! i I
annum .M-irci one mau to oe a niem-, i,
been drinking and It i the u- j 1 ". " "ing and urged our readers to patron- Mv Dear Fmotm:
tton that dettieory wasthecausei ,,u' he biggest apple . ,w hmM mm,han,s m M , candidate for re-nomina
ol hie rash art. from which his wife m wyownty ami perhaps the big- (, the f lhe Ilt,n to the oftk-e of Countv Treasurer l'r,'l'i,1(ls ma.ie their rcrxvrts
. . . . 1 1 Best III nil oth.fit lia,uirt Th 1
and haby ot ot-esaity are we rrai - , " : , " i month, when the mem tars of the I have servetl the people of this
sufferers.
Frank Smith discovered the lair
id wolf on the farm of Clarence
Govreau near Kiver Am Viwr ami
captureti ftur of the little cubs A
fifth one male Uses. a- ii Mon
day Mr Smith tvrovight them to
! tree Is o es to be about 40 years
olil arnl its fruit has een eaten by
senior class sent to an eastern firm county one term and liope to have
and purchase j their commencement the party custom of another term
that the old. faithful land-mark has i
brought forth its last debt-axis fruit '
ami is dying
Karrs-.ir jfit.n T:n.i
town ami they biog or, urmi Saturday .ft,
rarioaity. I l f ni V j nhnn 53foVl,wk. at llvins. in
a. a. II 1 i
l-.l..... ihnt wolves stK-UHt tw liueo i
wlK-eexer ami whenever ptwsible s
as to prevent tle perpetuathn of
the species.
liltoo JmpU-uie.
Welneslay night ammt 8 o'ekvk
Ofhcer Wilson saw a negro walking
oobrklge trwk No I aUnit 100
yards east of the depot. He was
ram ing a big sack full of stuff The
officer asked the negro what he had
In the sack ami he relied by drop
ping th ' nJ 'tn "n ialn Jump"
rtl on the officer and got him down
ami beat him up pretty badly before
the officer could get the use ot his
gun Vv iln shot the negro three
times, killing him The sack the
negro carried was part of the loot
that was stolen from French's store
at Fomfelt last week The negro
was heavy-set and had Wilson down
and county. If you think I will add
anv strength to the ticket. 1 ask
vour support.
la the general election in this
county four years ago I received 7!
more votes than President Wilson
naMnft tKjfti a.., Lit-, ,,n.l rt,nh.l.,k;i
. u.. ., . ;Crtls without giving either of the I have gone out in this county and
dren what Mr rrench regrets i! - t, i . , , ,
i(-,j-,r- ,nn inititi vk tlHilHV IVPrOl tin: 1 civ H 'I UIIIK'I OUHt,
.show satnples Most of these young those that have paid verv small
people are sons and daughters of sauries, and have fought hard for
our tmsiness men. tur columns suevss.
iare open always hv the boosting of 1 believe 1 am jitter prenaretl to
What may result in a fatal stab-, home buying and our schools. Scl- render party service this time than
ernoon.:iom a week passes during a school ever before. No doubt we will have
: i.i,.k : ....... i ... , . . . .- . , i .
, . . k tiyr ttihl ...,! ijmih, iu un ii , in in inn wniii we 'veireeiy ti a n.iru rampain, national, state
,, ,k- .uWn iri 'le rrsye was the aggressor, our sjvace for all school items, es
are toM that m the ,taWing a baker, late of St. Louis. ! pecially the Lymim courses where
of mtr tHliitv wolves nave uejtiro)- , , ... , I , ...
oi our tto. r tar., u ! h h.xl lit recently gt.ne to work j they try lo make their money; stw.-e
rl many r,. .v, .... - sn lh,. Klvina h,.kv fWiU'whi-.K ,Uo- ,l.,n 1
. " .j. i t-icf mi , "im il iinoil.' VIlflliSIA ft till IT'lil tA
j stabfietl the baker twite. once umler f us We have always btxsted Sbel-
t lie right shoulder blade, ami again, bina schools and khnlly do so, and
m the left side, which stab probably j now when we had a chance per- and .V more than Walter Hensley.
entered a lung His recovery is j haps d a little profit on some hijjh I feel that with a forty-thousand-doubtful,
though be is getting along -class work in comes a represcnta- dollar bond hanging over me and
very well at this writing, Justjtive of the aforesaid "mail order, no deputy. I will not le able to
what the trouble ws about we ; bouse " ami takes his "little" 50 per make an active campaign before
have been unat4e to learn, but stme Utiu tMiiimission while the home ti c primary, at least to oner the
kind of family trouble appears to be editors toil on. and next tim a c. ntv; therefore 1 take this means
mixed up in the affair. The baker sclmol "tloin's" conies along puhntdi of soliciting your siiptxrt
ami his assailant were supp.tsed to a "nice little article" and gnn ami If nominated and re-elected I
be good friends up to the time of hear it. just like all the other nu r- shall, at the close of my term, step
the stabbing The baker boarded , chant ho have to set back and do a and out and help my friends
but one or Iwo doors removed from ! see good old Sbelbina money sent who have stotxl by me so faithfully,
the Forsythe home, ami it seems j to mail order houses Shelbma Thanking you for past favors. I am.
that when Forsy the returned home j Torchlight. Very truly yours,
Saturday evening he found the ba-j The Times received a similar! T. A. Cutwei.l
ker tliere. when a quarrel is sup-"punch in the face." Farmington
posed to have resulted. Both were (Times. j Good Roads Con cut Ion
thought to have been drinking, in It affords us much pleasure to ! The largest and most enthusiastic
w hich case there is no need qf, testify to the fact that Th Press was meeting that has t-een h M at Mar
searching further for a "reason.'' not treated that way. t4e Hill for several years was the
ber of a resolutions committee
Soon after one o'clock the con
vention was called to order and the
Some
staled that their communities were
opposed to a bond proxsition
Others claimed that theirs were
now up to us to make the
sort of a campaign that will en
lighten the voters and convince
them that Bollinger county can do
things as well as other counties,
and that every part of the county
get what it is entitled to Let s put
aside the mistakes of the past, profit
.O.. .... 11.. 1:..: 1 1 ... 1 . . '
rtjtMiiv tuvHieu, ami otners,hv th(,n) anij Uin) (mr mw u(f
stated that their people largely; jN,Kr
favored'a bond issue. But all agreed !
that the peopie were not informed
as to the law regulating the matter,
the manner in which the money
would W expended, the general plan
of locating and working the roads,
and other details entering into the
situation. Kverylxvly agreed that
if these things were made clear to
the voters and they could U con
vinced that the countv would gel a
dollar's worth of good road for every
dollar extended that the proposi
tion would carry It was the opinion
of all that if a Ixmd issue should fx'
agreed upon that a campaign of
education should be made to the
end that every man might Ix- able
to cast nn intelligent vote on the
proptvsition After this report Judge
Bxle. of the Slate Highway depart
ment, ami Mr lng. the chairman of
the Gixxl Roads society of Wav;ie
i tare of Cream
During the hot days of spring and
summer the farmer who is selling
; cream to the creamery finds- it a
.problem to keep his cream m the
proper condition However, there
arc but a few simple rules which
should he followed, that would re
sult in N'ttcr cream FirM o! ail
these is cleanliness Dm remem
!er. carries had flavors If the ham
or us surroundings wni cows are
dirty it will result in jMor hatter
Immediately after separating, the
cream should he cooled down to at
least 50 degrees Karen hoi t Warm
cream should never U- poured upon
cold as the teiir.s'ranire of the lot
is raistxi and had flavors may re
sult It is essential tii.it the cream
lx stirrtsi frtsiuetuly to insure uni
form mienou1 If tin- cronm i. l.-o
county addresstsl the meeting. Tne xmU,nnU ttie fat riM,s xUr sanH.
State Highway eomm.ss,oner hi n- wgy j m m,lk A, a
self had agree,! to be prtsent but Mlt tbe crrrt!n 4, fu, ,.f ,.nrd
wuM not do so. s. he sent Jucge )( . .
Btxle who matle quite an interesting v.
talk. But the main talk was made W ri" 'Tam ,n a UlU T
by Mr Ing He is a forceful and T ? . ' " frmemher
, , , . . that miik and cream havt that
ch ar speaker, ami because of the VKtfKny lf ar,,ill; flaVt-
fact that his county had just com- W. b Combs. Missouri C41e;e trf
lletetl a roads campaign in which Agriculture.
