State Historical Bocloty
Mexico Missouri Message.
On your label is a da tp;
Renew before it is too late.
VOLUME 17.
MEXICO, MISSOURI, THURSDAY, JUKE 1, 110.
K UMBER 27.
MR. BALDRIDGE
CLEARED IN COURT
Henry Baldridge of Centralia Charg
ed With MurOer Is Acquitted
Killed Dr. J. Q. Cooper.
Henry Baldridge, former City
Masrhal of Centralia, was acquitted
by a jury last Friday in the circuit
court at Fulton of the charge of mur
der in connection with the killing
of Dr. J. Q. Cooper.
The Jury deliberated 12 hours. It
was said that the first ballot stood
9 to 3 In favor of acquittal and the
second 7 to 5 in favor of accquittal.
About 100 witnesses were sum
moned for the trial.
Arthur Bruton, for the defendant,
made the statement to the Jury as
to what he expected to prove. "Dr.
Cooper was an itinerant physician,
sojourning a few years, at most, In
one place and then leaving because
his habit of drinking to excess made
it. necessary for him to leave for bus
iness reasons," said Mr. Bruton.
He told that Cooper was a power
ful man physically and when drunk
was inclined to make-trouble. "He
had no regard for law or law otiicials
and when drunk was in the habit of
resisting pollceiofficlals," Mr. Bruton
declared.
"His office in Centralia was a
meeting place for the drinking ele
ment from the time he located there
in August. 1915, until the day of
his death, and the longer he stayed
the more flagrant became his con
duct. Men who are notorious as
gamblers In Centralia" frequented
Cooper's office, and we expect to
prove that gambling was conducted
there."
As to Baldridge, Mr. Bruton said
.that he had been a police official in
Centralia at various times for 12 or
14 years, and that at the time of the
killing he was doing night duty as
Marshal instead of day duty because
the merchants' organization of the
town had requested the board of al
dermen to put him on the night job.
Mr. Bruton gave the defense's ver
sion of the incidents leading up to
the killing and told that Cooper had
threatened in talks with others to
give Baldridge a "wooden overcoat"
if he ever interfered with his affairs.
Thomas Vanlandingham of Cen
tralia testified that he had known
Cooper when both lived at Rowena
and also when Cooper had lived at
" Paris, and that Cooper had a reputa
tlon in both places for drinking.
There were a number of others
who testified along the same line.
J. T. Ridgeway of Centralia,
drug clerk, testified that Mrs. Ry
man, the dressmaker, eaid the day
Cooper was shot, "I did not sleep a
wink last night. That gang in Dr
Cooper's office kept me awake all
night."
O. G. Wilson, Ridgeway's employ
er, told of hearing Mrs. Ryman say
the same day that she guessed she
would get a good night's sleep that
night for the first time in several
weeks.
Baldridge testified in his own be
half. "
. The defense recalled several wit
- nesses after Baldridge left the
stand, and then the State began its
rebuttal with the introduction , o
evidence attacking the character of
the former Marshal. A majority of
the eight men, it is said, who test!
fled that Baldridge'a reputation for
morality was bad admitted under
cross examination that Baldridge had
the opposition of the negroes and the
lawless element at election time and
that the "church people elected Bal
d ridge," according o the general
' opinion.
In cross examining the witnesses
introduced In rebutut by the defense
IKES THOSE
NATURE.STORIES
Thompson, Mo., May 29, 1916.
Dear Mr. Deal: I enjoy The Mes
sage very much, but enjoy it far
more since Mr. L. R. Ferris has
been contributing his nature stories.
I think they are both interesting
nd Instructive.
Very Truly,
Mary K. Morris.
MEXICO TEACHER.
All Re-Elected for The Work Next
Year Superintendent's Salary
Fixed at $2,400.
The School Board was in session
Monday. Two new courses of study
were decided upon for McMillan.
General Science and Sociology.
I
All the teachers were re-elected
except Miss Hilda Biaurf wno will be
succeeded by Miss Anna Williams.
The salary of the superintendent was
raised from $2,100 to $2,40u.
The teachers and salary of each
ill be as follows:
McMillan High School. l. H.
Strunk, 1200. Benson Botts, $900.
L. Campbell, $810. James t'ul-
bertson, $810. Archie Cook, $810.
Libuse Soukup, $810. James Me
Creery, $810. 14. E. Rich, $7.G5.
Frances Glandon, $675. Edith Ether-
dge, $675. Adeline Jesse, $675-. Al
ee Hilpert, $675. Julia Russell,
675. Maude Wallace, $675. Mil
dred Johnson, $630.
Central School. Principal C. C.
Roselle, $1200. Kitty -furley, $540.
Mary Stallings, $496." Frances Cau
thorn, $540. Jennie Karnes, $540.
Zola Beal, $495. Margaret rryor,
$495." Nannie Wright, $675. Anna
Williams, $450.
South Side School. Principal Mrs.
Houghland, $1000. Elizabeth Price,
595. Lucy Wells, $540. Beulau Grif
fin, $495. Willa Whitson, $495. Co
relia Lake, $495. Mary Deariug,
$450. Sallie Garrett, $595.
Garfield School. I .J.Hicks, $585.
B. H. Douglass, $495. Ethel Mosely,
$369. Halley Holt, $360. Anna
Boyd, $360.
Janitors. Hugh Donnelly, $840.
John Judy, $540.
Tuesday was Memorial Day. Men,
women and children in all parts of
our county met at the cemeteries
and decorated the graves of their
beloved dead. A number went to
the cemetery ' in Mexico on a like
mission. A joint memorial service
will be conducted at Elmwood Sun
day afternoon order of service glv
en elsewhere in the Message.
Dr. John W. Million, president of
Hardin College, addressed the grail
uatlng class at Troy, Lincoln County,
last week. He noted the fact that
the colleges of the country are turn
ing out three girl graduates to two
boy graduates. As a result of this
he predicted women in the legisla
ture before many years making our
laws.
Prof. I. N. Evrard, dean of Missou
ri Valley College at Marshall, Mo
made the commencement address be
fore the graduates of McMillan High
ichool last night.
attorneys for the State questioned
Baldrldge's reputation In the follow
ing instances: Two charges of dlS'
turblng the peace; the shooting of
a negro of which he was exonerated
after a hearing; beating up Charles
Turner, while the latter was drunk
and of beating up other persons
beating up a doctor last summer, of
which charge he was exonerated; re
signed from city office after he had
been charged with taking a bribe in
a crap game raid
SKINNER LETTER.
Sow It's Going Willi The Farmers,
KheV Men, t'atlio .Men, and So
on Buying Automobiles.
Skinner, Mo., May 30. The big
ruin was a dandy, in that it will
muke grass and small grain a sure
snot, but it was rather hard on the
recently planted corn.
The late planted corn is not prov
ing a very extra stand and many are
replanting. We fear now they stand
a good fhiiw of having to plant again.
The oat crop is beginning to loon?
up about right and bids fair to make
a good yield. Some of the earliest
sown fields are about as fine k us we
ever saw while the later sown ones
are only fairly good. The early sown
fields are beginning to head.
The early planted corn is a good
-:tand and is beginning to grow rap
idly. Some of our farmers have
cultivated their corn twice.
Litiie Miss Ruth Ellis, student in
.McMillan High, spent Sunday and
Monday at the home of her parents,
Mr. and Mrs. O. F. Ellis, and enter
tained her room-mate friend, little
Vliss N'ilie Vaughn, of Santa Fe.
Elmer Gatewood spent Sunday in
Kansas City and heard the great
evangelist, Hilly Sunday.
Richard Baker and family and
Roy Bruce and family spent Sunday
with Mr. and Mrs. W. F. Wilfley.
Rev. Humphries of Centralia filled
his regular appointment at Bethel
Saturday and Sunday. Saturday
night he was billed to preach at La
dies Hall.
Last Wednesday night Mr. and
Mrs. Ernest Marshall gave a square
dance to. a score or more of tiji-i--
riends. . '
Our excellent merchant continues
to do a land office business in his
general store. Has worn out a
new wagon in ten years and has Just
purchased another.
Arthur Ellis now has a new Moon
buggy and the fanciest driving pair
of sorrels any ways near. The way
he makes her sizz brings the dim
ples to many of the girls' sweet
cheeks.
A. C. Barnes purchased 299 head
of Angoras on the Kansas City mar
ket Friday. He had them drove
from Thompson Saturday to hia 440
acre farm four miles northwest of
here. He has a little brush on that
farm and desires to clear it at a
profit.
Charles Householder had two
loads of western lambs on the Na
tional market last week good enough
to bring $10.40, or Just 15 cents of
top for their class for that day.
We are so glad that our sheep
men of the past winter have made
good profits. They have cleared $4
or better per head for keeping their
lie ep six or eight months, making a
handsome dividend. It makes things
lock good and puts stamina into
business.
1
Our excellent friend J. G. Craw
ford brought out a new Maxwell car
last week. He and his wife will take
many joy rides now.
P.'t. Bruce sold a dinky Cadillac
to Christopher Miller Saturday a
good car and Just needs a little fix
ing occasionally (any of them do,
you- know). Mr. Miller is making
her hum.
The most beautiful Beasou of all
the year (spring) ' is passing this
way, promising with almost certain
ty, the approach of a fine summer
and fall. Would say that all are
highly optimistic for the best season
in' many years. Here's wishing the
editor, contrlbutora and many read
ers one continuous, happy tound of
pleasure and success thruout the
year. Of course a little admixture of
sorrow occasionally aka& thl-gs
better In the long run. v
Dr. W. L. Kendall of Enid, Okla.,
was shaking bauds with Mexico
ffieudg th la week.
. RANDALL PARRISH
v - -v '7
1 r1 , ,
I
Randall Parrish, the author of our' was passing along the lane near wiiere farmer tally
next aerial story, "Beyond the Fron-'was plowing he saw Farmer Tally plow her nest up with
v!Z he" rZrtTZet?C ing ad course an ident, ad Dadd'
he is a plain historian. Third, he la and Mother Prairie Chicken are to be pitied. Bro. Rab
a lecturer on historical subjects and bit, who hears evervthing, heard the farmer sav, "I will
SuSlTSi J?2;j;t take these twelve eggs to the house and let'old Betsy,
he is active in developing this coun- the speckled hen. hatch them out. You can have the
try's commercial relations with other little chicks when thev are hatched, but suppose they
"abTou may have suspected, Mr. Par-Illiake,a nest and lay more eggs! What kin will the little
rish began his writing career as a ones be to the chicks that letsy hatches? I, er, well,
newspaperman. But before he start- I will have to think about that," replied Terrapin. "You
edto writehe wetothe UuiversityiCan.t expect a fell0w to know everything just because he
Kan., when that aection of the coun- is a. hundred years old.
try was enforcing the law with the j The camp bov was thinking also of something else
hair trigger and the vigilance commit-. fur h;s f.icc sa(j ,u timcs The time of his stav
tee, and did some prospecting down in . . . " . . , c. . '
Arizona and New Mexico-all before i' the woods was drawing-to an end. brother and hister
1885. - IMuskrat seemed to realize it also. Thev both lav and
Then he worked on the dally papera blinked at the camp-boy from their bungalow top as
in Denver, Sioux City, Omaha and Chi-' , , . V , , 1 ' m 1 e 1
cago. was manager of country week- ,the vuun- muskrats took their bath near by Black -bnake,
,?ies in Nebraska and niinoi,-, and who had grown sleek and fat on bacon scraps, looked on
worked at special commercial Journal-j ;n a friencllv manner. It is wonderful how the boy had
Ism in Chicago. Hla first novel, "When . , , , 1 t
Wilderness Was King." was published Ital ncd toj.ne 111 little inends.
in 1904. since that time he has writ-: Red box was so sorry about the bacon affair he r in
ten twenty novels, and each has had'cvt.rv time Sister Possum grinned at him. Brother Com
ao3rapreasident of the Alumni as- actually spent a great deal of his time on the shoulc'er
eociation of the University of Iowa, 1 of the camp-fire boy. Little Red Squirrel poked a Utile
active in civic work at Kewanee, 111.. : red paw at Brother Coon, reminding him that he acred
liSSiSTSSP orse than anybody when the camp boy and his father
merce, Mr. Parrish ia much In demand
all over the country aa a lecturer on
topica concerning town development,
American history and literature.
HAKDIX GIRL HONORED.
Wins Hor Way in All Her Studies
Besides Cun Cook 11 Good Meal
and Make Dresses for Herself.
Miss Margaret Lovell Million,
daughter of Mr.and Mrs. J. W. Mil
lion, of Mexico, who will take the de
gree of Bachelor of Arts at M. S. U.,
In June, will be but eighteen years
and five months old. She is a 1915
graduate of Hardin in the ClassicaV
course. Has studied violin, piano and
voice, can cook a meal and make
dresses for herself, tho she has no
class credits in Home Econoomics.
She is a junior in Journalism and it
has been meutioned tiyt she de
serves more credit, as she Is not an
only child who has had the sole at
tention of her parents. There are
three younger children at home who
are making good records.
JOIXT MEMORIAL SERVICES.
Memorial S riees will be con
ducted at Elmwood Cemetery Sun
day afternoon jointly by the frater
nal orders and the public generally
are asked to meet at the I. O. O.
F. Hall at 2 o'clock Sunday after
noon, when a line of march will be
formed.
The speakers will be: Rev. O. Olin
Green, of the First Baptist Church;
Rev. S. W. Hayne, of the Methodist
Church, Rev. A. A. Wallace, of the
Presbyterian Church. A. C. Whit
son will be Master of Ceremonies.
&
vP t0u)iI) p A u p J
$ Mexico Savings Bank $
$ 44th Year in Business $
$ Capital Stock, $150,000 $
$ W., W. FRY, President. $
$ J. R. JESSE, Cashier. $
tf o Q5 it
W V W V v v V W v
WOODCRAFT STOIES
FOR LITTLE CHILDREN
Ninth Story.
By L. Roy Ferris.
Old Daddy Prairie Chicken was proud.yes, siree, the
last time .Mother Prairie Chicken had left the nest to eat
a few grasshoppers and take a sail around the meadow for
a few minutes. He had peeped into the nest and counted
twelve snowy white eggs. She gets just a little fussy
when nesting time comes just like some women do at
house-cieaning time. Glad our mother doesn't get that
way, aren't you? The only time he can count the eggs is
when she leaves the nest.
All dav the Camn Bov had heard the hoom. boom of
Daddy Prairie Chicken, and
foot ot the large Linn i ree, dangling his leet m the water
and fished for the goggle-eyed perch. He smiled to himself
as he listened, tor he well remembered the courting days
of Daddy and Mother Prairie Chicken.
What was that Brother Rabbit was saying to Terra
pin? Ob! goodness, gracious, listen ! as Bunny Rabbit
lirst entered tlie torest.
"Dear little friends," said
know how I can get along without you". "I don't know
what they will do without you." remarked the boy's
.ther as he tip-toed up to where the boy was fishing.
"Why, only this morning I caught the co.m that lives
in the big sycamore tree stealing sugar from the sugar
bowl. You remember how wild he was at first?"
"The camp boy is going home," screamed the Jay,
and he hurried over to Red Head Woodpecker's nest to
tell him. "I am sorry," said Redd)', "for he is so kind.
He never throws rocks at a fellow just because his white
shirt shows a little bit. He even broke open a rotten log
so I could get the grub worms my, but they were fat!
They all curled up and played possum, but they didn't
fool anybody," chuckled Red Head.
"Has the camp boy a mother?" asks Bro. Muskrat.
"Why, yes. indeed, can't you tell he is thinking of her
right now? Don't you see the tears in his eyes, like
every boy has when he wrnts to see his mother? has
been away from her for a long time?" Bless you, in another
minute Muskrat would have had tears in his eyes, but
along came Sister Possum. What do you think she said,
"Brother Coon is going home with the camp boy. Going
to live in a city. Won't he miss that old tree?"
"I wish I could go," said Red Squirrel, "and I", said
Badger, Sharp-tooth, "and I also", said Grey Squirrel,
"and I and I, and I" said every little friend of the boy.
"I am going," said Robin Red Breast, "I know right
where he lives and he has the finest cherry tree, right
by his window.
"Oh Pshaw ! said Sister
something to eat."
Robin was singing a song
S. S. Roberts who was operated on
some time ago for appendicitis say 3
he does not feel as robust as of yore.
His strength is gone a: 1 he has au
unpleasant tired feeling. But he is
trying to take on new courage each
day and in a few months hopes to
be strong again.
J. B. Mundy of Columbia, Mo.,
has bousht the Laddonla Herald
from C. E. Mayhail and tal;,s chars?
at once. Ho gets a good plaut among
the best people on earth and prom
isee to push the Herald more and
more to tho forefront.
as the Camp Boy sat at the
the bov to himself, '"1 don't
Possum, "you're going for
and didn't hear a word.
The 25th annuul Grand Council
Meeting of Missouri Vnited Commer
cial Travelers gathers iu Mexico to
morrow aud uevt day. .Two great
days for everybody is promised.
The Community church at Rush
Hill will give a strawberry and ice
cream supper Saturday night, J una
3rd. Everyone cordially Invited.
Santa F is to have a high school.
The six districts including the Santa
Fe district, by a vote of 68 for to
44 against, voted to consolidate.
