TIME
VOL. XX NO. 66.
-BARRE,. VERMONT, THURSDAY, JUNK 1, 1916.
PRICK,, ONE CENT.
TfflE BAMME BAI
LY
GERMANS
CHECKED
They Failed Completely . in
an Attack at Dead
, Man's Hill
BATTLE TURNS
TO DOUAUMONT
An Intense Artillery Duel
Was in Progress There
All Niffht
Paris, June 1 The German were com
yletely repulsed in an attack delivered
upon French potations at Dead Man's
Hill about 8 'o'clock last night, accord
ing to the official statement issued by
the French war oflice to-day. A violent
bombardment continued in this region
throughout the nig'ht and an intense ar
iillery duel was in progress on the east
and went fronts at Douanmoiit.
The Frenuh troops northeast of Yer
dun in the region of Dead Man's Hill
turned on the offensive yesterday and in
a spirited attack captured a strongly
organized position on the slopes south
vest of the hill. Seven machine guns
and 22a prisoners were taken m the at
tack.
The official statement last nig'ht was
as follows: -
. "On the left bank of the Meuse, there
va a violent bombardment with shells
of large calibre in the region of Avo
court and Hill 304.
"In the afternoon in a spirited attack
our troops gained possession of a Ger
man work strongly organized on the
slopes southwest of Le Mort Homme.
We took 229 prisoners, including five
officers, and captured seven machine
guns. .
"On the slopes southeast of Le Mort
Homme, a surprise attack last night en
abled us to capture 25 prisoners.
'On the right bank there was great
activity of the two artillery forces be
tween the Meuse and Fort Vaux, but no
infantry action.
"Our batteries took under their fire,
and dispersed enemy concentrations
north of the Bois des Fosses. The can
jionading was intermittent' on the rest
of the front and more intense in the
region ea9t of Metzeral and Hartmanns-Wellerkopf."
SHACKLETON SAFE
AT PORT STANLEY
IN FALKLANDS
GERMANS ADMIT LOSS.
But Say
Very
The French Suffered
Heavy Losses.
Berlin, via London, June 1. Tn an at
tack on German positions southeast of
Dead Man's Hill the French obtained a
foothoJd on first line trenches for over
400 metres, the war office announced to
day. The French repeatedly assaulted
the lines but other than at the point
mentioned were beaten off with extreme
y heavy losses.
Antarctic Explorer Hai Returned from
Perilous Journey to the Southern Re
gions He Started in August 1914.
London, Juno 1 Lieutenant Sir Ernest
Shackleton, the Antarctic explorer, has
arrived safely at Port Stanley, Falkland
island.
Lieut. Kir Ernest Shacklcton's expedi
tion, which had as an object the crossing
of the Antarctic continent from Wcddell
sea to Rubs sea,' started from England
in August, 1014. Sir Ernest, with one
section of the party, went to Buenos
Aires and the other section to Tasmania.
At Buenos Aires in October, 1014, Sir
Ernest sailed for Weddcll sea. The oth
er party later proceeded from Tasmania
by the steamer Aurora for Ross sea,
where it was hoped Sir Ernest and his
party would join it after crossing the
continent.
Early in the present year the Aurora
returned to Fort Ohalmer, New Zealand,
having broken adrift in the ice of May
6, 1915. Eight of her men were ashore
when the vessel broke away, and noth
ing had been heard from Shackleton and
his companions at the Ross sea base.
Port Stanley is the capital of tlie
Falkland islauda which lie in the south
Atlantic off the east coast of Argen
tina.
The fact that the section of the ex
pedition headed by Shackleton returned
to its virtual point of departure means
that the expedition failed in its primary
object. This might have been due to
difficulties encountered on the journey to
the pole or the return of Shackleton to
the south Atlantic may have resulted
from failure to meet with the second
section of tlie expedition proceeding
from the opposite direction. Owing to
the drifting away of the Aurora, it would
have been impossible for Shackleton to
complete his journey by way of the Aus
tralian route.
REFUSE
TO QUIT
MEXICO
United States' Reply to Lat
est Note from the Carran
za Government Will Be a
f Flat Statement That the
Troops Will Stay Until
Carranza Can Control the
Situation
MUST SHOW PROOF
OF HIS ABILITY
CANNOT RETAIN
RIGGS BANK FINE
Court Rules on $5,000 Withheld and
Holds Further Penalties May
Not Be Imposed.
INSURE ITALIAN SOLDIERS.
They May Take Out Policies If They Ap
ply 10 Day After Reaching Front.
Rome, June 1. Italian soldiers at the
front, may insure their lives for $10,000
each under the new rule of the National
Institute of insurance organization sub'
cidized by the government. The request
for such a policy must be made within
ten days of arrival at tflie front.
TIFFIN WOMAN LICKED.
Mrs. Josiah E. Cowles of Los Angeles Is
General Federation President.
Xew York, June 1. Mrs. ,fosialf Evans
Cowlos of Ix Angeles was elected presi
dent of the General Federation of Wom
en's Clubs by a large majority, defeat
ing Mrs. Sanniel B. Sneath of Tiffin, O.
The vote, taken yesterday and announced
to-itav. showed that Mrs. Cowles had
1,273 votes and Mrs. Sneath had 433.
Bv a two-thirds majority the federa
lion voted to affiliate with the Xational
Council of Women. Several women were
ejected from the meeting because they
protested when denied the right to vote,
Washington, June I. The district su
preme court yesterday held that Control
er Williams may not retain a $5,000 fine
he imposed upon the Riggs National
bank, and also held that the controller
may not impose further penalties, as the
bank alleged he had threatened to do,
The decision yesterday disposes of the
undecided points in the banks cele
brated civil suit against Secretary Me
Adoo and Controller Williams, in which
t charged them with conspiracy to de
stroy it.
Controller Williams had imposed
fine of $5,000, which the treasury depart
ment withheld from interest due the
bank on government bonds. The bank
lleged the controller threatened also
to fine it at the rate of $100 a day while
certain of his orders were not complied
with. The decision of the court yester
day is a victory for the bank in that re
peet. ' :
All the banks charges of personal
malice and persecution by the treasury
officials were dismissed. l.st week three
of the bank's officers were acquitted of
a perjury charge in connection with the
civil suit decided yesterday.
The case began a year ago, and Jus
tice McCoy has had it under advisement
since last July.
WILSON TO HEAD
THE PARADE
President Wilson Is Report
ed as Ready to Withdraw,
but Not Until the Ameri
can Border Will Be Safe
from Bandit Raids Mex
ico's Note Made Public
Washington, D. C, June 1. It was
stated authoritatively to-day that the
American troops will not be withdrawn
from Mexico until the Carranza authori
ties demonstrate control of the situation
sufficient to protect the American border,
A reply to that effect probably will be
made to Carranza's note. .
President Wilson was represented to
day as being .ready to withdraw the
troops when it i possible but as deter
mined to wait until the Carranza forces
can control the situation.
Steps will lie taken by the war depart
ment to obtain more definite information
regarding the disposition of Carranza
troops in Chihuahua, as it was said that
the tone of the Carranza note prompted
action by military officials without re
gard to tile diplomatic phases of the sit
uation. No anxiety is felt for the safe
ty of the Pershing expeditionary forces
but it was desired to know as accurate
ly as possible the movement of. Orran-
za troops. It was explained that the
real mission of the expedition now waa
o prevent attacks upon wide sections of
the border.
CHARGE SCALED DOWN.
From Assault with Intent to Kill Down
to Breach of Peace.
Burlington, June 1. Sherman F. Wade
of Milton, who was indicted by the grand
jury of county court at the March term
on the charge of assault with Intent to
kill, was taken into city court yester
day, where he pleaded guilty to the
charge of breach of the peace or simple
assault. He waa sentenced to spend not
lesa than two years nor more than three
years at the house of correction at Rut
land. The sentence was suspended and
he waa placed on probation in the hands
of the probation officer for "a period of
two years. It was also stipulated bv the
court that Wade should leave Milton by
June B.
Wade was indicted by the grand jury
on the charge of assaulting, with intent
to kill, Frank P. Grow, a deputy sheriff
at Milton. Wa.de at the time of the as
sault was on his way to c saw mill
which he had once owned and which had
been taken over bv George Phelps and
others of Milton on a mortgage. He had
in his possession a loaded rifle which he
is said to have stated that he intended
to use on Mr. Phelps. Mr. Grow 1st-
tempted to take the gun from JVade and
in the scuffle the. rifle was discharged.
Some of the witnesses claim the bullet
went into the air and others claim that
it hit the ground. There was also
conflict in the evidence aa to whether
or not the gun was discharged by Wad
intentionally or whether in the scuffle it
wa accidentally discharged bv one o
the men. The indictment by the grand
ury will be nol prossed at the next term
of county court. ;.
WAITE TO DIE
NEXT MONTH
DIED AT EAST BARRE.
Murderer of John E. Peck to
Go to Electric Chair
Week of July 10
HE ADDRESSED
COURT TO-DAY
Said He Felt Sorry for His
Crimes- and Hoped to
Compensate in Part
W1LLSCHILDREN TO GRANDMOTHER
MEXICO CLAIMS
UNITED STATES
PLAYS DOUBLE
Official Note to Washington Government
Declares That Our Words and Pro
tests Are in Direct Contradiction
to Our Acts.
TALK OF THE TOWN
George Poole left this morning for
Montreal, where he' will make a visit
with relatives.
A. Lewis passed through the city this
noon from Gramteville, where he has
made his home, to Ki-ene, N. H.
Darwin S. Waterman ha returned to hu
home on Washington street from Barton,
where he has tx'en visiting his daughter,
Mr. Harry Bassctt.
L. R. Clough and family of Tremont
street returned this noon by wutomobile
from Hanover, X. II., after spending a
few days visiting Mr. Houghs people.
Mi Klla Halliday of Elm street left
the citv this forenoon for Bellows Falls.
where she i to make a visit of several
days with her mother. She was accom
psiiied by Miss Faustina Maker.
Tlie Sunday school braird of the Meth
odit-t church held a meeting in the base
ment of the church last evening, hearing
the report on toe county Sunday school
convention, which was held at Plalnfield
the fitt part of May. Plans were also
rim .le for a picnic in the latter part of
June, but no definite time' was set.
Mis Eleanor Sand was tendered a
farewell reception !at night at the Hea
ding ehuri h in appreciation of her faith
ful and untiring work as choir leader
through the past year. I). J. Morse epokn
for the- musical committee nd the choir,
refreshment wer erved, after which
Mi ni was presented a purse of
gold. A program was enjoyed by all
;ter the refreshment were served, as
follow: YYa Ifoyt. piano solo; Mrs. G.
('. (irpertt r. reading; Marion Anker,
r;im !; Mary Bhop, re d rig; Wil
Ln ('liner, vtxal o!o.
Mexico City, June 1. Claiming that
tflie words and protests of the United
States have been entirely in contradic
tion to its acts, and that in spite of pro
testations not. to intervene in the af
fairs of Mexioo, soldiers of the L'nited
States are now in Mexico without the
consent of the Mexican government and
in violation of Mexico s sovereignty, the
Mexican government now asks for the
immediate withdrawal of those troops.
he request is made in a 12,000 word
note made public at the foreign office
esterday.
'l"he note recites that the American
roops crossed the frontier after the Co
ltimbus incident without tlie permission
of the Mexican government. The act was
not regarded as one of invasion then
solely because the United States said
they had misinterpreted the- attitude of
the Mexican government. When the sec
ond excdition crowed the line after the
Glenn .Springs incident, the note main
tains, the plea that this was done with
the consent of the Mexican consul at
Delrio, Texas, is untenable and that act
can only be regarded as one of invasion
"The Mexican government therefore
invites the United States to bring to end
this unsupportable situation," the note
concludes, "and to support its protea-
President - Enthusiastic About Prepared
ness Demonstration to Be Held in '
Washington On June 14.
Washington, D. C, June L IVesident
Wilson marching on foot will lead the
preparedness parade here on Flag day.
June 14. Afterward he wiM review the
procession and address the marchers.
v hen the local committee asked him
to-day to review the parade he replied
enthusiastically that he would not only
review it but would march. He also
promised if possible to permit all gov
ernment employes here to march. He
said he would start with the procession
and march to the reviewing stand.
Members of the cabinet and other offi
cials will probably march with the pres
ident, who feels that by marching him
self he will most emphatically show his
personal interest in the demonstration.
President Wilson will present the dip
lomas to the graduating elass at the
Naval academy to-morrow but 'he does
not expect to make a speech. He will
attend the Wet Point graduation exer
cises on June 13. As he decided to muke
trips to demonstrate his interest in pre-jtations and declarations of friendship by
an immediate withdrawal of the Amen
can troops."
Maintaining -Jhat the protests of
friendship by the United States and the
expressed desire for non-intervention
have been contradicted by the acts of the
Washington government, the note says
the time lias arrived when Washington
must declare itoelf clearly and unequiv
ocally as to its future intentions toward
Mexico.
After reciting the fact which led to
the first crossing of the frontier by the
American troops after the Villa raid at
Columbus, the note insists that in con
tradiction of the word of Generals Scott
and Funston another expedition crowed
the boundary line thus violating all the
precepts of international law and com
mitting an act of inv-aion. J
"The American government, says the
note, "has admitted that the work of the
expedition which entered after the Co.
himbus .raid is now over. But in spite of
this fact, Ameri-an troops still remain
n Mexican soil. To contend that politi
cal disorder in thi country jutifie th-s
act of the American military fon-e is
in conflict with the repeated profeion
of the Washington government relative
to non-interference."
The note points out that much nf the
trouble in Mexico is due "to the attitude
Rutland Court Will Have Odd Problem to
Solve.
Rutland, June 1. -An odd point of law-
will probably be raised in the question of
the guardianshipf of two minor children
f the late Mr. Caroline T. Powers of
Mlddletown Springs, who in a will ex
ecuted on her death bod willed the chil
dren to her mother, Mm Tandy of Mil
ford, X. H. One of the children wa
but a few.days old when the mother died
The will was before Judge A. O. tool
idge in probate court yesterday after
noon, where it was proliatetf and allowed
without objection. Attorney B. J Stat
ford of the firm of Lawrence, Lawrence
&, Stafford, appeared for the present
guardian of the children, Walton Frost
of Mlddletown Springs, while Attorney
Joseph C. Jones appeared'or the propo
nent of the will, Mr. Pandy of Milford
After the death of the mother, the fa
ther of the children having died only
a few months before, Mr. Frost was
appointed guardian of the children, the
will not having made its appearance at
this time. Later Mr. Pandv appeared
with the will which gives the children
to the grandparents. The will was prop
erlv executed and signed, but there is a
question as to the right of the mother
to will away her children.
AN ODD SCTIT.
Rutland Merchant Sues to Recover Dam
ages for Burned Auto.
Rutland, June 1. A civil suit of un
usual character was begun in Rutland
county court yesterday when George E.
L. Badlam, a local grocer, brought ac
tion against George T. Angell, his former
delivery boy, and James Bell, the lat
ter'a friend, to recover SHOO for the loss
of an automobile delivery truck a few
liavs aco. After the store had closed
one evening Angell took the truck with
out permission and went for a joy ride.
The machine caught fire and was totally
destroyed.! The writ declares that An
gell struck a match to ascertain what
had stalled the auto and that tne gag
caught fire. Angell is a Xorthfield boy.
HORSE THIEF SENTENCED.
paredness Friday's cabinet meeting
cancelled.
PLAN STRIKE ON
EVE OF G. O. P.
CONVENTION
'The Situation is Serious," Says Medi
ator of the Teleg
raphers. Xew York, June 1. That the situa
tion growing out of the demands of the
International Telegraphers' union on the
telegraph companies is extremely seri
ous was admitted yesterday by Rowland
B. -Maiiany, federal mediator, after he
had been in conference with both sides.
"While the matter is ttrcmcly seri
ous, saw Mahsnv, "I am nevertheless
hopeful that some wav will be found
avert the threatened calamity of a nation-wide
telegraphers' strike."
Though no ultimatum lia been served.
the radicals are firm for a strike June
ft. the ex of the Republican national
convention.
The telegraphers demand a 10 per cent
wage increase, an eight hour day and the
right to organize.
Roy Dunham of Bakersfield Gets a Year's
Term.
St. Albans, June 1. In city court, be
fore Judge X. X. Post yesterday, Roy
Dunham of Bakersfield pleaded guilty
to stealing a team Sunday night and
was sentenced toserve not less than a
ear nor more than two years in the
house of correction at Rutland. The
case against John Wells of Knoahurg,
who was arrested on the charge of be
ing implicated in the matter, was held
for investigation. Dunham escaped from
the stale industrial school at Yergenncs
about six mmths ago.
Xew York, June l.,Dr, Arthur War
ren Waite was to-day sentenced to die
in the electric chair during the' week of
July 10, as the penalty for tlie murder
of his father-in-law, 'John 1.. Peck of
Grand Rapids, Michigan.
A motion by Dr. Waite's counsel for
new trial waa denied.
When Justice SJiearn concluded th
pronouncing of the sentence, Waite de
livered. a short speech, expressing . his
appreciation of tlie manner m which
tlie trial' was conducted and his thank
to tlie court prosecutors and his ow
attorney., Waite said he was sorry for
his crimes and the trouble and suffering
he had caused others. He declared he
hoped that by surrendering his body for
punishment he would compensate in a
small degree for the deaths of his vie
tinis.
WINNERS WERE ENTERTAINED.
Barre Knights of Columbus Were Guest
of Montpelier Brethren.
Barre Kniihts of Columbus! members
of Council Xo. 401. to the number of 35
made the trip to the capital last even
ing when they were entertained at
banquet given by Montpelier council.
J he compumentay dinner, which was
served at ( o clock in the hall adja
cent to the Knights of Columbus frater
nity quarters, was in the nature of a
forfeit paid by the capital city knights
for their defeat in the intercity crib
bage and pool tournament last winter
All told nearly 100 persons were dined
and regaled with post prandial responses
Incidents of the big six-leg battle be
ween the two councils were recalled dur-
ng the dinner hour and informal plans
were diacumeil for a field day to be
held under the joint auspices of tlie
Barre and Montpelier councils sometime
n the summer. I he proposal to renew
'Je winter tournament in the latter end
oi 191t$ waa looked upon with favor by
members of both councils.
At the after dinner exercises W. X.
l ncnault presided and the responses
were numerous and well timed. Speech
making was intarlarded by singing, to
which program Daniel J. Sullivan of
Barre was one of the contributors. Mr.
Sullivan affected a number of dialects
n his vocal work and was warmly ap
plauded. Among those from Barre who
responded with toasts were: A. J. li
nger, D. J. Sullivan, tBiarlea A. Wilkie.
E. J. Owens, A. H. Burke, Ixmis Bruva,
nd P. 0. Xoonan. Responses for the
Montpelier council were made by Frai)k
Brown. William torry, Uharles McNen-
na and John Flannagan.
MIDDLEBURY 16 HONORS.
Alban J. Parker of Morrisville is the
Valedictorian.
Middlebury, June I. The faculty have
designateil Alhsn J. Parker of Morris
ville and Miss Ada Karnes of Middlebury
as valedictorian and salutatorian respec
tively of the class of 1SMH. The grades
up to the middle of this last semester
determined the final standing of the class
in the selection of these two positions
of honor. Mr. Parker ha been active in
athletic while in college, winning his
letter in football.' He alo plaved on
his class basketball team during his four
years at college. He is a member of the
Glee club, as well iy the manager of the
successful club representing Middlebury
this last season.
bu
Oliver Ihitton of Krookhel.l was a
ne visitor in the c-ity to da v.
R. T. O'Brien retur ied to hi home in
pnnjrfieH, Mass- last mcht arter nit
ig triend on ,orth Main street for a
Kir dajs.
FORMER HOTEL PROPRIETOR.
William Landon of the 011 Welden House
in St. Albans Dead.
St. Alban. June 1. William Landon.
aged 71. of Milton died at tlie Sherwood
sanatorium e;irlv this morning after sev
eral months' illncs with cancer. He was
for many year proprietor of "the old
Welden house in St. Alban. after which
he conducted the Park Yiew houe. also
of St. Alban. On selling out hi inter
est in the Utter several year ttpn be
went to Milton and wa reiding on a
farm when seized by iline. Me leaves
hi wi'e. one tr0'! n and one brother,
the latter l-irg Fred Iin-lon of Bntol. j
TWO GIRLS KILLED.
And Four Men Injured in Automobile
Accident Near Portland.
Portland, Me., June 1. Two girls were
lied, the driver was so badly injured
cannot live, and three other voting
nwn were 'slightlv injured on the Duii-
stan road yesterday afternoon, when a
five-passenger car. in which they were
riding, failing to respond to the brakes,
plunged into a break in the highway
caused by the recent big rain storm, and
turned turtle, pinning them beneath it.
All lived in tJus city.
Tha killed:
Mary. Modes, IS, of 50 Hancock street.
Harriet Fuller, 18, of 61 Free street.
' The injured:
Xaaon Herman, 22. of SO Klin street,
chest crushed and internal injuries.-Condition
critical. Married.
John Gardner, 24. of 64 Franklin
street, scalp cut and arm injured. Xot
seriouslv injured. Married.
Harry Shrcnsky. 20. of 3. Pearl street,
spine injured. Condition not considered
serious.
Harry Carvel, 22, of 3 Garden lane.
Shaken up.
I he accident happened at about 4:30
o'clock and the only eye witnesses were
Charles Halcrow and R. U Home, both
of Portland, who were returning to this
city from Dunstans in an automobile.
These two shouted warning to the
party, but they did not give heed until I
Harley Southwick Had Been 111 Two
Weeks with Typhoid Fever.
The funeral of Hurley Southwick, who
died .Monday at 2:30 p. m., at his homo
in hast Burrc, after a two weeks illness
with typhoid fever, was held at the East
Karre Congregational church Wednesday
forenoon at 10 o cluck, preceded by
prayer at the house at 9:45. Rev, James
KaniUco officiated. Burial was in the
West Corinth cemetery, the bearers be
ing two brothers of the deceased, Herbert
Southwick and Harold Waugh, and two
brothers-in-law, Alden Grearson of Barre
and John, Henry of East Barre.
Mr. Southwick was born in West Cor
inth. 41 years aco and lived there the
first 16 years of his life, coming then to
l-.ast Kurre, where ho had since lived.
He never married and -always made his
home with hia mother, Mrs. Abbie
Waugh, who survives him. He was well
known and much liked among liis ac
quaintances. He was a member of the
Christian Endeavor society of East Barre
and had shown much interest in the Go-
to-church band, which has been active in
the East Barre Congregational church for
the past few mouths. At the end of each
four months, a pin is bestowed on those
who have had a perfect attendance for
the time, and Mr. Southwick hud ob
tained a pin "for tlie first four months,
and Kicked but one Sunday, the one after
he was taken sick, of winning for perfect
attendance in the second four months.
Besides his mother, Mrs. Waugh, he is
survived by two brothers, Herbert South
wick and Harold Waugh, and two sisters,
Mrs. Ahlcn Grearson of Barre City and
Mrs. John Henry of East Barre.
Tlie floral tributes were as follows:
Pillow, from family; wreath, McAllister's
employes; carnations, Mr. and Mrs. II. A.
McAllister, Christian Endeavor society,
Mr. and Xfrs. F. L. Sargent, Mr. and Mrs.
Fred Garret, ladies' auxiliary, Rebekah
lodge, Josie Whitcomb. Mr. and Mrs. Fred
Downing, Mr. and Mrs. Robert Gray;
roses, Mrs. Belle Hutchins, East Barre
Athletic club; narcissus, Mrs. Frank Wa
terman; purple and white lifcics, Mra.
Robert Watson; white roses, Mr. and
Mrs. M. E. Cutler; broken circle, Mrs
A. L, Wellington.
POLICE DOUBT
MAN'S STORY
James O'Brien T . Them
Beatrice Waite' ,?" mmit
ted Suicide bT .ooting
HE TOLD F . FATHER
IT Vvi ACCIDENT
Death at Providence Was
Reported by 0'Briea
but Very Late .
GOOD CHEER PREVAILED
At Banquet of Junior Holy Name Society
of St. Monica's Church.
Between 80 and 00 boys of the Junior
Holy Xame society of St. Monica's church
enjoyed a banquet last evening in the
knights of Columbus hall, the occasion
being the first get-together of its kind
since the society was organized. The hall
was tastefully decorated lor the affair.
Rev. P. M. McKenna of St. Monica's, on
entering the hall, vvtia greeted by the
hearty applause of the boys, who this
showed the appreciation of the interest
which the reverend paRtor has ever
evinced in their sjyitual and temporal
welfare.
Tlie banquet began at 6:30 o'clock and
the 18 ladies in charge were kept quite
busy for an hour,' during' which time
much mirth and good cheer prevail!.
Following the banquet there was a de-
ightfut. entertainment, in the course of
which the following program waa given:
Piano solo, 'Grand Imperial March,
Dante Valli; vocal solo, "Do They Miss
Me at Home!" Alfred O'Connell; violin
solo. "Gaiety Polka," John McMahon
triple. quartet, "The Clang of the Forge,
2 bovg, senior members; piano solo.
selected, Charles Bianchi; vocal solo,
The Champion of the Town," Rinaldo
Provost: piano solo, "the Palms, Hem
ent McMahon; recitation, "What to Do
When in Trouble." Earl Wilkie; song
Tlie Conceited Frog," Benjamin Cook,
Dalton White, Clayton White; vocal solo.
Springtime, Louis OLearv; recitation.
Mother Machree, Hovd rornbrio; cor
net solo, Orpheus Bizzozero; one-act com
Iv playlet. Philosophy Exploded, John
ordtin, Alfred Olonnell and Eugene Ivo
rs nger.
Jamea Bennett, who was one of the
guests of the evening, sang "A Little Bit
Ireland, and responded to an encore
th "The Wild Irish Rose." Accom
panists for the vocal soloists were: Har-
Id White, Clement. McMahon. Charles
ianchi and Eugene txranger. Guests of
the evening included Mr. and Mrs. James
Bennett and Mis Margaret McKenni.
At the cloxe of the entertainment, Rev.
Fr. McKenna addressed the boys, saying
"This banquet is the occasion of three
great surprise to me; first, the presence
of so many boys and the perfect order
that mvs prevailed; second, the banquet
itself, which was a real feast; third, th
high order of the entertainment which
the boys have furnished. Father Mc
Kenna exhorted the hov. to work to
gether for their mutual support and al
ways to show their loyalty to their
church and their country. In conclusion
he asked the hoy to return a vote of
thanks to the ladies, and, needless to suy,
his wishes were complied with enthusi
astically. Much credit is due to the la
dies, who gave so generously of their
time in making the affair successful and
to others who asited in various ways.
Providence, R- I., June 1. James
O'Brien, who first reported the shooting
of Beatrice Yralter, a girl who worked
in a jewelry shop with him, to her fa
ther early this morning, waa held by
the police to answer for her death. He
will be arraigned on a murder charge,
according to the police, following an autopsy.
The victim waa the dauirhter of Wil-
iam H. Walter, a municipal boiler in
spector. 0"Brien is said to have told
her father that the girl dropped a re
volver and the weapon exploded, the
bullet striking her. The police state he
told them that the girl shot herself aft
er saying several times that it would
be nice for them to die together, and he
attempted to commit suicide but the bul
let struck the buckle of his belt. The
physicians aay the girl had" been dead
two or tliree hours when O'Brien report
ed the affair.
TO PROMOTE GENERAL WELFARE.
TO REOPEN QUARRY.
Capital Granite Co.'s Property at Web
stemlle to Hum Again.
The cranite nuarries in Wcbsferville
within 30 f.-et of the cut. toward which formerly operated by the Capital Granite
Informal Discussion Was Held Regarding
Barre Plans.
A number of Barre people interested
in the organization of a welfare league
met in the court room at city hall last
evening and discussed tentative plans
for such a move. Speaking was of an
informal nature entirely, but a good
deal of interest was manifested in the
proposal and it is not improbable that a
second meeting will be held in the near
future. Around 35 men and women were
present to listen to Miss Gridley, who
has interested herself in welfare work in
Montpelier. Miss Gridley gave an inter
esting resume of her work and observa
tions and advanced valuable digestions
for the proposed inauguration of organ
ized effort in Barre.
Xo attempt at organization was made,
but Enough interest waa shown to war
rant another gathering, whioh will be
held in HoWland-hall, through the gen
erosity of F. G. Howland, who offered
quarters for the second meeting. Talk
centered principally around the plan .to
engage a paid worker. Utters ot assist
ance were received and it was indicated
that an organization of the kind in Barre
would not lack for pecuniary assistance.
Among those who supplemented the
remarks made by Miss Gridley were:
Judge Frank J. Martin. F. G. Howland,
Rev. J. B. Reardon, Overseer W, J. Clapp
of the poor department, Charles Paraperl
of the Barre evening drawing school and
George X. Tilden, who represented the
Barre Board of Trade. The matter of
calling another meeting waa left with
the chairman.
GIVEN A CHARTER.
Arlington Light and Power Co., Also Ran
dolph Center Potato Exchange.
Articles of association have been filed
with the secretary of state bv the Ar-
linirton Light and Power Co., Inc., the
application having received the approval
of the public service commission. The
company is incorporated tor $.iu,uw, di
vided into 5HHl shares and is autnunzed
to manufacture and distribute electric
power for use in tlie towns of Arling
ton. Sunderland and Sandgatc. The sub
scribers are Otto C. F. Kinum of Sche
nectady. X. Y.. A. K. Buck. Victor L.
Smith," T. E. Martin of East Arlington,
and M. P. Denting of Arlington:
Other new corporations are the Ran
dolph- Center Co-operative Potato Ex-
hange. Inc., with uO shares of stock
amounting to $,100, the fifteen sub
scribers all being of Randolph Center:
Bennincton and Dorset Auto line. Inc.,
capital stock of J.I.OOO. with 120 shares,
there being ten subscribers, including
Frank E. Howe and Collins Graves of
Bennington.
TALK OF THE TO
they were traveling at about 25 miles
an hour.
The break in the road is a gap about
40 feet wide. Within 30 feet of the cut.
on either side, has been stretched a sin
gle rail temporary fence, made of thin
hoard and thc-e frail harrier during the
day are all that ha been provided to
protect the autonu lulihts from the fate
that befell ihis party. At night a guard
m maintained there, but do watchman is
on day duty.
BANK DIRECTORS BEARERS.
Co. will reopen for business in a few
days. A force of derrick rigger and
other help are now busy getting the der
ricks in order to resume oeration:
team boilers and other neeeary ma
chinery are hcing installed and will be
ready so that quarrying may Iwgm at
ome. The company's head office will be
in Batavia. X. V. William E. Lippin
will act a manager at the quarries and
look after their other business interests
in this section.
These quarrie produce a fine grade of
lifht and medium granite, which i ef-pe-ciallv
adapted for cirvintr and statuarv
wotk. The top layer and other piece
that will not make monumental stock
work very nicely into street paving, and
a larjre tone ot paving curlers will Ive
placed at work a soon as the machinery '""I,"'"' "
is rradv to 1 started up. M- M,1,,"0,
Mr.
Allen Mt-fcsn of Bovnton street
f the l'nited State in not punishing J left the ri! v thi torepoon for I m innsti.
ennpirstor in the l'nited Mate. wha'o where he is to iit her on. !o i
have plotted the downfall of the pres
ent eontitutiofiIit govemmr,t, and to
the a-t of Washington in refuin to
lrm't the shipment of arms and am
munitions to enter Meie-o.
employe,) the i;periiit-nfert of a large
woolen ti iil on tVe eitk.rts of t'e city.
Mr. M- l.fn will i-t in Ihi.ago and
deveUnd n route. rturn.r.g home at
ti e mi if a forte gt.
Funeral of Hon. Robert Cartmell at Mid
dlebory Middlebury. June I. The funeral of
Hon. Robert" tartnicll took !ac at St.
Mepl-en' church je-'tcrday afternoon.
Rev. John Kvan 15od, the reel r. offi-
The" Vs.ional Rank of Middlel. rr of J Whl, Tint
whih he was dnertor. wa -led" and j Pakerf:eld. Jtme 1 There was a white
til bu-onc plsiie had !rwn curtain j frot in thi piace this morning.
during tHe erv i.-e. The director of t he
faink were honorary bearer and Allen Vivian Dufir. who w taken to the
( altioim. c.eo-c F.. Marhll. W. K. 1 1en -I (Tul Iren's hopit i in Ilo-ton the latter
ent. Dr. V.. H. Martm. .fu-ige Hark aei .prt of la-t week, i reported to he out
f C. Pain were the active hearer. The 'of the dsrger ward atd i improving a
hmdv will be takca to dy to Tartiet f.rlt a can be evpcvte-l from her cpera
tuxiaL tion.
Mr. J. Tondreau left this noon for
Haverhill. Mass.
F. M. Kempton of South Main street
returned this afternoon from Boston,
where lie ha been making a business
(trip.
Mrs. August .lohnon ot t hurcii street,
who accompanied the remains of her
husband to Quiney. Mas., for burial last
Saturday, returned to the city last even
ing. Miss A. Sandblad. a sister of the
deceased, who went to Ouincv with tho
funeial party, ha returned to her home
in Xew York. The Ndy of Mr. Johrevon
was met at the station in Quincy by a
firge number of hi compatriot ami es
corted to the cemetery, where committal
service were read by Rev. Mr. Hakon
son. pator of the Swe-linh Lutheran
church in Quincy.
Two Barre semi professional team
have game scheduled for the week end.
The B. A. ('.' del red d.biit will r
made at the Granite City park, when thi
team line up ag-iinst lxlUrd seminary.
colli ge tesm ot v inookt.
which lav claim to fame by it victory
over St. Ansehn's with a twirler who
b tied hi w me to the oVsfiny of Con
nie Mark. wiSI come to town to orpo
the Italian A. C. at tie Berlin street
ground.
Clerks' Notice.
Tlere will be a rrgiihr r-eetinj of th)
K. . I. P. A. Ul -Ml. Fn-iay at 7M5
p. m. rVfTt i'Mft to r-i-t-r. Per or
der F.ec. Sc.
