"WEATHER IN ARIZONA: ARIZONA, June 2. Cooler tonight in the north and centra! part of state; warmer Saturday.
WASOPERATED ON DETROIT, June 2 Battling Nelson, former lighweight champion was operated on for apendicitus and is recovering. . ...
BRANDEIS TAKES OATH SOON: WASHINGTON, June 2. Brandeis, the first Jew to be elevated to the supreme court bench, will probably fre sworn- in Jrune 12.
HUGHES HAS NO REPRESENTATIVE WASHINGTON, June. 2. -Hughes was asked if Hitchcock was representing him. He stated through his secretary that.it wasr
"perfectly well understood that Hughes has no representative." ' -
BRIDGE COLLAPSES WITH TRAIN: PACKARD, Ipva, June 2. Two women were killed and ten injured in. the collapsing of the Coldwater Creek bridge under a
Rock Island passenger train. Seven are missing; they afe.'believed to. haye been drowned. '
BLEW TRAIN OFF TRACE: BLOOM! NGTON; 111., June 2. A tornado blew the Chicago and St. Louis Wabash fast mail train clear off the track today in a deep cut;
however, said deep cut prevent the train overturning. Nineteen were injured one fatally.
KITCHENER AND STAFF FACE COMMITTEE. .LONDON," June 2. Kitchener with his staff faced two hundred members of the House of -Commons - in a committee
room to answer questions, requiring the war, following complaints by some of the members. There was no opportunity. to question him. ,
t- &, . .tar" -S a J
VOLXLVI. NO. 27.
British
THE NEW YORK PRESS
Aim pfiinitn DnncnciT;
h i 1 1 1 1 1 nm i j
i III w yr H w no msb E V tar vsr lea lx Gas
'large British battleship War
Within forty-eight hours, be reasonably asked to pick a presi-! . battlecruisers Oueen
Mo,r on t,ok1 dent in the dark?" In conclusion, thel' ' UdllieuuibLIb .ueeil
O O J Sun nv3' '"Tho now frrrio-f1i M'h sph i M civ cmrl I nHpfdtiomoKl onH
cuuui appeal cu in lhu Colonel Rtosevelt exhibits today is, as
New York Newspapers, bear- betwen him and justice Hushes, al
ing On the Candidacy Of Col- most altogether the outcome of the lat-
onel Roosevelt for the repub-
lican nomination, for the pres-
papers, the New York Globe, '
111 P 11 . . 1 s 1
naa oeen rnenaiy ro tne 01-: future historian win have small dim-, torpedo hit the British battle-
Onel. But all United in COm-Iculty in figuring out the reason for his 1 A. ,
mending his Detroit 'speech. ' . 'shiP Marlborough, wn.ch is
Even the New York Herald The New York Globe Squires how I con rirmed by rescued prison
declared that it "was an ad-, n ,is termination of uieigrs. Several German ships
li 1 r j. 1 i. ew iork delegates to the Chicago c u v
mirable appeal for straight-, eonvention t0 misrel)reSent their con- rescued parrs of the crews of
out Americanism." And the ; stuaents. "For neither Mr. Root onfne sunken British vessels,
Herald added, "Petty must be Mr. Hughes," says the Globe, "is there i including two men from the
the viewpoint of the man who mucl1 support outside of the hardshell I Indefatiguable, her only sur
insists upon seeing in that !fadelf of the ,arty-" " thinks vivors.
Detroit address anything sel-. The German's lost the crui
fish, any effort to promote monstration of the trend of mbiic ser wiesbaden by gunfire,
anybody's candidacy." opinion." ure Globe recalls 1912 and the Pommern, which was
The New York Times, under the when tne New York leaders and del- j torpedoed. The fate of the
caption "Political Memories are egation savagelp opposed Colonei j'Frauenloben and Several tor
Short," points out the folly of attempt- Roosevelt. Yet in the election, in New j nefjn Ute i? c vt nnlrnnwn
ing to harmonize a party by the nom- York City alone, he led Mr. Taft by DtS yet nfWn"
ination of a candidate of unknown 62,000 votes in spite of the strongly larS numDer Ot bntlSfl
views on the issues which divide it. Republican organization behind the j battleships Were damaged by
Though the name of Mr. Justice latter, and Colonel Roosevelt with only j gUIl fire and torpedo boat at
Hughes is not mentioned by the Times a hastily improvised organization. It ; tacks. '
there was evidently in the mind of is plain that the Republicans of New I TU hitfe Hprron rm V7or5
14. VUAUUA taJl UbtriVVU aaaaaa L' wwww.v- lit" J. I.
in the present situation and Alton B. is impossible to Judge," saye the Globe
Parker who was nominated by the "how great is the preponderence in
Democrats in 1904. The democratic his favor now when thousands of for
party was then looking for a man who nier Taft supporters are behind his
had not offended anybody by his candidacy." Colonel Roosevelt, de
views. Says the Times, 'The only clare the Globe, can carry New York
way to get such a candidate was to and it is a matter of grave doubt
find a man who had not expressed
any. Where, outside the grave, could
. 1. y -i nt ii..
sucn a man e iouna. wiiy, on uie
bench." Parker was nominated and
then he was forced to express opinions
that alienated half his party. An ex-
pression of contrary views would have
alienated the other half. Parker at
the time of his nomination was the
worst beaten candidate in the history
of his party.
The New York Sun has always been
anti'-Roosevelt, though for the last
quarter of a century, of strong repub
lican tendencies. But writing on May
22 of the Detroit speech, the Sun says:
"Once again the veering weathercock
of national politics points in the di
rection of Theodore Roosevelt. Who
can wonder? The frank courage and
... . , , " . Uii ti,n!P , , ,
patriotic wisdom of his great Detroit,311 tll0Se hose names will be brought)
speech put to shame the hesitations oe Uie Clncago convention. Its j u-v Llie war. ims is uie
and reticenses of his competitors." It i editorial and news columns reek with lesson which has awakened the Ameri
was a declaration 1 oa the one great bitterness toward him. It holds him cans to the need of training men in
question of the hour. In a breath thejas the weakest of all candidates. But j industrial preparedness, which must
wavering and dumb tribes of Burtons e 11Ue tne answer to all that. The
and Fairbankses and Cumminses who ! WorId is Hie most enthusiastic advo
either stand nowhere or do not dare cate of President Wilson. If has been
say where they stand, begin to look .
like impossibilities."
If the people knew, thinks the Sun, !
where Justice Hughes stands they !
might turn to him rather than to Col-
onel Roosevelt. But they do not know.
"And," asks the Sun, "can the people ;
L JL JL -M. SL-J K-Jy A. J.-JL.
....... . YUMA
Colonel IlTDOsevelt exhibits today IS, as
ter's persistent shyness in revealing
f lflons' "!ld iE intlthe lonf,.run
nomilufe and the next president, the
x '
whether any other Republican caudi- j
date can. "And," observes the Globe, !
r i .. !
ncimuucaii nope oi electing a
presiuent is not stronger than the '
hope of carrying New York."
Of the Detroit speech the Brooklyn !
Eagle says: "If his enemies seek to I
depreciate it as intended for campaign J
purposes, the obvious retort of thought-1
ful people and impartial readers must !
be that no better or more inspiring j Secretary of the Navy Dan
platform could possiblv be construct- 1 j i j i.u i
ed u w n dnnn' I- 7 , i iels today welcomed the naval
ea. jt was a sincere, dignifed,log-. j j i
ical and tremendously forceful presen- i academy S graduating ClaSS
tatiou of a doctrine which must com-'iintO the navy. He advised
mand the adherence of every Ameri-1 them tO Specialize in SOme
can worthy of the honor and dignity of ; branch of the Service.
citizenship in the republic." i The pathos of lives sacrificed be-
The New York World esteems Col-' e i- , r,
, , - tLU"b LD1 ; cause cf unreadiness," said Secretary
Oiiei Roosevelt as tho loet ,..n
01 au uie Sreat journals of this coun
try, the thick and thin supporter' of
everv adn,infftinn miw
erery administration policy, always
blind or silent as to administration
weakness and blunders, and it knows
fuI1 wel1 that Roosevelt if nominated
by the Republicans is the one man,
MEMBER ASSOCIATED PRESS
YUMA. ARIZONA. THURSDAY, IUNE 1, 1916.
Associated Press)
BERLIN, June 2. The ad
miralty announces that the
Cerman high-seas fleet eng
countered the British fleet
'Wednesday, destroying the
um nr-nnr&rl rrnicorc
Thev also sunk a
small
i cruiser, several destoyers and
torpedo boats.
The admiraltv sfafp rhsf a
J
nesaay anernoon ana con
tinued throughout the night,
in the northeastern section of
the North Sea. .
i p, i
(Associated Press)
ANNAPOLIS. June 2.
Daniels, is the saddest lesson taught,
'
building and
training of men."
c v. -u r .u r-
Subscribe for the Examiner
who, running on a straight from the
shoulder platform of Americanism,
can defeat 'Wilson.
ni&iin n tti i n nr nrrn nr !
UfiniLLu slllo ur AjLtu ur i
imiOTDH! nnrnisnrnMCCD
SOUTHWEST
i
, British Admit Losses
. (Associated Press;
! IIONDON, June 2. The
Bniish admiralty today an
nounced that the British bat
I tlecruisers Queen Mary, In
defatiguable and Invincible,
land the cruisers Defense and
Black Prince were sunk, and
Warrior was disabled in a!
battle with German ships in.
rne iNorrn aea.
Ihe number ot German
warships sunk and the other i exhibits that have been made
German. loss is described as;,by the iittle Indian boys ancj
"serious' giris 0f foat institution?
ive British destroyers; enf f you haven't, you
Tipperary, Turbulent, Hawk, -have missed a treat.
Fortune and Ardent Were. Superintendent Odle Invilea me to
lost in the engagement. SiX the school last night and, to my sur
Other? are missinp- ! prise, after l got there, I found that
-rW i i or
11 j UU11U U11 had been selected to act as awarding
Jutland coast. I he German ,jU(lges 0f tne various articles on ex
fleet avoided the main Brit-jhibition. The only other persons pre
ish Sea forces and returned 1 sent were iMr. Odle and wife, their
to its port badly damaged. !two pretty little daushters and Mrs-
t i ' Lavender's little six-year-old boy.
Two German battlecruisers : The awarding was t0 be done with.
Were SUnk and tWO light crill-out any fuss ov feathers, without any
sers were disabled probably1 hand-clapping or playing to the grand
SUnk later. stand. It was purely a business mat-
' ter, for upon our verdict depended the
Apparently this was the greatest
naval battle in history; however, the
mastery of the sea has not yet been
determined, for the losses, although
serious, will not impair either fleet
vitally. The losses for both sides were
heavy. The loss of life ' was great.
The Germans reported that only two
lives were saved from the Indefatigu- i and tuck, and then tuck and nip, un
able, which carried over 000 men; the j Lil we began voting, each writing the
other sunken warships were similarly
manned. .
iXPERT ENGINEERS
EXAMINE THE PROJECT
Dr. Robert Fletcher, director of the
Thayer School of Civil Engineering of
Dartmouth College, and Assistant Di
rector Charles Arthur 1-Tnlflen. rearhpH
Yuma last night and today were the
snnriai e-npsts of Prniprt "Tn nacrr 1
Lawson. The two distinguished visit-
ors rank among the highest civil engi
neers of the United States. Tehp
made this a special trip to Yuma to
make a personal examination of the !
engineering problems that have been
and are yet to be solved on the Yuma
project.
It is not necessary to say that they
were charmed with all they saw.
Subscribe for the Examiner.
the
i II ER S W
PRIZES 10 11
(By B. F. FI5)
t;a vou ever have the
pleasure of visiting the Fort
Yuma Indian school and ex-
amine the various industrial
Mrs. Lavender, iliss Waite and myself
distribution of something like $100 in
cash among the children who had eng
tered, into the competition.
We first started in on judging two
large frosted cakes, and, of course, we
had to . sample them. Say! But it
makes my mouth water to think of
them; they were so good. It was nip
I name who in our respective opinion
i was entitled to first prize $3. Two
; of us voted for Ruth Millard and one
for Helen Snow, the former winning
,he three dollars and the latter taking.
second prize with one dollar and a
.ialf for her premium.
At no time did either judge know
who the other, judges were voting for
as it was all done by secret ballot.
In nearly every instance, except the
ake, all of us agreed oh both first
and second there being but two
prizes offered.
I really enjoyed the honor bestowed
on me, for it gave ine a better insight
into what the Yuma Indians are doing
than I could have obtained in any
:,ther way, and I was astonished be
ond measure to see what splendid
.vorlc those little children are doing
in the line of preparedness for their
future station in life's great battle. It
convinced me more thoroughly than
was ever before convinced that the
government is doing a great work for
its wards, and the day is fast ap-
proaching when every school in Ameri
ca will be teaching its pupils what
Uncle Sam has already seen the wis
dom of teaching the Indian children.
1 venture the assertion that there
isn't a public school in Arizona, Cali
fornia,, or, for that matter, in any oth
er state in the Union that is teaching
its children how to perform every
class of work necessary to make good
housewives of the girls and good work
men or mechanics 61 the boys. That's
what Mr. Odle and his able corps of
- f
GADSDEN
North Sea
RITER AWARDS
SCHOOL PUPILS
teachers are doing with the Yuma In
dian children. The walls of the class
room where we did the judging were
almost covered with drawings and
samples of penmanship and letter
writing. Among the latter I copied
the following:
"Yuma, Ariz., April 25, 1916.
' Mr. Loson L. Odle,
"Yuma, Arizona. '
"Dear Sir:
"I am going to write, a letter to
you. I think the school is better this
year and I had a good time every
Sunday The boys are runp-iifip
around tnes4iouses. Some tires you
see the boys going by. L-tlunk all4he
boys are doing fine.- ''Some boys'' have
run away. .The bays that always run
awa'y. ,,-The boys that runaway and
come' back and go to school they do
not know anything. .Some times I do
not know anythingf too.
- "Very truly yours,
"HENRY LEVI."
Now, I call that a pretty clever letter
for a little Indian boy but ten years
old, composed wholly by himself and
sent to Mr. Odle. without solicitation.
If he keeps up that lick he is apt to
be chief of his tribe in later years, or
make a good chief of police.
Here is a list of the first and sec
ond prize winners:
Cake: Ruth Millard and Helen
Snow.
Chairmaking: Peter Escalanti and
Harold Cooper.
Tablemaking:
Harold Cooper and
Peter Escalanti.
Halter making:
James Hills :' and
Lewis Waters.
Laundry work: Harriette Alexan
der and Jennie Hawthorne. '
Dressmaking: Jennie Hawthorne
and Ruth Millard.
Apron making: Charlotte Olip and
Rosalie Parker.
Handkerchief making: Charlotte
Olip and Rosalie Parker.
Lunch cloth: Virginia Jeages and
Helen Snow.
Sewing apron: Henriette Alexan
der, first and second.
Saw-buck: Sam Smith.
Blackboard frame: Arthur White.
Each of these articles were as well
made as though they had come fresh
from one of the local stores. Indeed
the work was wonderful when it is
considered that most of it was done
by third and fourth grade pupils, and
none of them over fifteen years of
age, and some of them little tots of
the first grade. Mr. Odle certainly
has every reason to be proud of both
pupils and teachers.
It appears to us that those Atlanta
officers who are so lucky in locating
bootleggers are rarely smart enough
to locate the hip-pocketeers. Houston
Post.
Gen. Pershing sends word that his
troopers have all the candy they need.
But how about chewing gum and salt
ed almonds? Galveston News.
