mm
PublUhad vrr TkamU? by
RUSSELL D. PRICK.
Subiariptioa RaU
PYr L00
fllx Month M
Thra Month , M
TUB COURIER
It dvvoUd to th hmt InUrwtl
of HPKAY Mid WHEEXfcK
CCyjNTY. Th IIUr.1 pnUw
M of tt (ItUcna of tlil Md
Uun la miMlf ully oullalUil.
VOL. XIV.
HlItAlr, WIIEELEK COUNTY, OKEGON, THURSDAY, JUNE 1, 1910.
NO. 16.
WORLD'S DOINGS
OF CURRENT WEEK
Brief Resume of General News
From All Around the Earth.
UNIVERSAL HAPPENINGS IN A NUISHEU
Live News Items of All Nations and
Pacific Northwest Condensed
for Our Busy Readers.
Methodists reUIn ban on dancing,
cards and theateri.
With tremendoua losses the Gorman,
make large gains at Verdun.
Women's clubs are planning an in
ternational congress for 1920.
Vigorous notes have been sent both
France and England on the subject of
interference with mails.
Tha Parla Temna in an editorial
again goes on record as not favoring
ny idea or peace negotiations.
One hundred and sixteen Texas mili
tiamen who failed to respond to the
eall for service on the border will be
courtmartialed.
Eggs shipped from Eugene, Ore., to
England, retailed there at 96 cents a
dozen. The shipper received a net re
turn of $3.82 per case.
The deepest May snow in the re
membrance of pioneers of the Hood
River Valley now lies In the forests
round Lost Lake, Oregon.
Mayor Joseph McCaakey, of Wllke
son, a coal mining town near Tacoma,
Wash., haa resigned following his con
viction of having violated the dry law
by selling liquor in bis drugstore.
' The German and Austrian consuls at
Canea, Island of Crete, left that city
with their families and the consulate
suffs on May 24 for Athens, according
to a Havas dispatch from Athena.
A new company has-been organized
to establish large shipyards at Van
couver, Wash., contracts have been
made for four large motor schooners,
and options given for three others.
. Victor Carlstrom, bearing a message
from the Aero Club of America to
President Wilson and carrying Alan R.
Uawley, president of the club, as a
passenger, flew from New York to
Washington, 220 miles, in three hours
and seven minutes.
Exports of merchandise from the
port of New York during April
amounted to $184,751,946, compared
with $185,126,623 in April a year ago.
Imports for that month increased also,
amounting to $115,290,462, compared
with $92,262,029 in April, 1915.
An unconfirmed report received at
Fargo, N. D., said 10 persons had been
killed at Rogers, N. D., in the storm
which swept Southeastern North Da
kota. Rogers was cut off completely
from the outside world, all telephone
and telegraph wires being down. .
The German authorities have offered
to allow General Leman, the defender
of Liege, to go to Switzerland, accord
ing to a news dispatch. Because the
permission was granted on the ground
of his ill health and age, the General
rejected the offer, saying that he did
not wish to admit that he was unfit to
fight for his country.
The resignation of Charles Ware as
general manager of the Union Pacific
was announced Tuesday at the com
pany's headquarters. No reason is
given. '
London underwriters charge 60 per
cent to insure against a declaration of
peace between Great Britain and Ger
many before January 1. The rate in
dicates that in the underwriters' opin
ion the prospects for an early peace
are better than two months ago, when
the rate for, the same risk was only 80
percent. .. ,"(',.
It is officially announced from Dub
lin that in addition to the sentence of
death imposed on Jeremiah C. Lynch, .
American, a similar sentence was im
posed upon Peter Gallighan, but that
this sentence was commuted to five
years' penal servitude. A number of
other persons also were ' sentenced to
various terms of imprisonment.
More than 1800 French, including SI
officers, 16 machine guns and eight
cannon, were captured in a German
assault on the Verdun front in the re
gion of Deadman's hill, the German
war office announced Tuesday.
President Poincare has conferred the
war cross on Queen Elizabeth of Bel
gium as an expression of "the admira
tion of the people for the magnificent
courage nd untiring devotion to the
wounded which Bhe has never ceased to
show under the enemy's fire." -
FOOD DICTATORSHIP WITH SWEEP
ING POWER CREATED IN GERMANY
Berlin, via London "The adequate
nourishment of our population Is fully
assured and will be rendered doubtful
by any blockade regulations of enemy
states, no matter how unscrupulous
they may be and no matter how long
the war may last," says the semi
official North German Gazette, in an
announcement of the creation of a food
dictatorship with sweeping powers.
"However, the short harvest of
1916, together with reduced imports,
have resulted in a food scarcity in
some directions which makes itself
felt, and efforts to better conditions
have been hindered by the fact that
each federated state haa been able to
make Independent regulations. This
will now be corrected by a centraliza
tion of power.
Probably never before have such
sweeping powers been concentrated as
now granted Herr von Buttock i, the
new food dictator. Various counselors
will be assigned to him, representing
agriculture, industry, trade, the mill
tary and the consumers, and the repre
sentatives of the federal states and as
sociations connected with the war will
aid him. Final decision on all ques
tions, however, rests solely in Herr
von Uattacki'a hands.
The regulations of the federal coun
cil will not be affected by the appoint
ment of the dictator, but in case of
pressing necessity the dictator is em
powered even to Issue contrary regula
tions, but these must' be laid before
the federated council for approval.
30,000 Carranza Troops Hunt
Bandits Along Northern Border
Washington, D. C Reporta to both
the State and War departments Wed
nesday further indicated plans of the
Carranza government to prosecute vig
orously pursiut of Chihuahua outlaw
bands while the American forces re
main comparatively quiescent.
Closely following news of with
drawal from Mexico of the second
American punitive expedition sent
from Boquillae, Texas, under Colonel
Sibley and Major Langhorne, informa
tion reached the State department that
General Obregon had ordered 80,000
troops to engaged in the bandit hunt in
Chihuahua and along the Big Bend
border.
Delay in opening diplomatic discus
sions over the question of American
troops remaining in Mexico also was
Indicated in official dispatches, state
department officials said that receipt
of the new note being prepared by
General Carranza was not expected be
fore next week.
It was thought probable that retire
ment of the Big Bend expedition to
American soil had presented a new sit
uation in connection with representa
tions contemplated in General Car
ranza's new note.
Battle at Verdun Grows Bloodier;
French Withstand Titanic Assaults
London- Tuesday witnessed the
bloodiest fighting in the whole battle
of Verdun. The struggle of the first
days of the German assualt, or of the
second mighty effort to overwhelm the
fortress, fade into nothing compared
with the titanic force of Tuesday's
blows. And their net result, so far as
the Germans are concerned, was to
leave the battle lines where the French
had left them after the successful
counter attacks of Monday.
Only about the Thiaumont farm,
east of the Meuse, ' does Paris admit
the loss of a single foot of ground.
Berlin herself claims only the capture
of a small blockhouse west of the
river and of a sap mine near Vaux.
For the rest it contents itself with re
porting the repulse of the French at
tacks. Every available man and every avail
able gun except those actually nec
essary for the reserves the Germans
have mustered into the battle. They
made a supreme effort to recapture
Fort Douaumont, which in their ab
sorption at Hill 804 and Le Mort Hom
me, they had neglected to prepare
against the contingency of French sur
prise, but the French grip on their old
fortifications was too strong.
Assault after assault, so many of
them that they literablly flowed into
each other until even the French could
not distinguish them, was delivered
within the old ramparts. It was a
repetition of the hand-to-hand struggle
in the streets of Vaux.
Beer and Egg Condemned.
Birmingham, Ala. The general as
sembly of the Cumberland Presbyter
ian church ended its 86th annual meet
ing Wednesday night after adopting
a resolution favoring a constitutional
amendment for National prohibition
and approving a committee report
which deplored that a large number of
women had formed the habit of using
alcoholic drinks.
It condemned specifically the use of
beer and egg as a spring tonic
JAMES J. HILL DIES
AFTER OPERATION
Railroad Magnate Passes at St Paul
After Short Illness.
GREAT AGE AGAINST RECOVERY
Northwest to Pay Tribute to Mem
ory of Great Empire Builder. '
Life Was Momentous.
St. Paul, Minn. James J. Hill, one
of the last of the American empire
builders, died at his home here at 9:43
a. m. Monday, May za, following an
operation for the removal of a car
buncle. On account of his age, 78
years, he was unable to resist success
fully the shock'of the operation.
"The end came quickly," said the
official bulletin. "Mr. Hill became
unconscious a few hours before. There
were no death agonies."
Mr. Hill's death followed two opera
tions upon his thigh to relieve inflam
mation caused by a carbuncle. The
fact that an operation had been per
formed Friday was kept secret until
Monday. There was a second opera
tion Saturday. Dr. Herman Biggs,
New York state health commissioner,
had been in attendance since Friday.
Mr. Hills final collapse came with
startling suddenness. It was late last
week before a word of his Berious con
dition was allowed to leak out. Then
it was stated he was suffering from a
cold. The Mayo brothers, surgical
specialists, were brought from Roches
ter, Minn., for a consultation, and it
then developed that Mr. Hill was
afflicted with an intestinal carbuncle.
Special trains began bringing friends
and relatives to the bedside. The best
surgeons were summoned. lkuis w.
HilL president of the Great Northern,
opened his residence next door for the
accommodation of doctors and nurses.
Early Sunday afternoon Mr. Hill ex
perienced a sinking spell. Rev. Father
Thomas J. Gibbons, pastor of the St.
Paul cathedral and vicar general of St
Paul archdiocese, hastened to the bed
side. Four hours later Mr. Hill was
said to have rallied. At 6 p. m. his
pulse was reported improved. But at
9 :30, 12 hours before his death was to
come, Doctors Biggs and Gilfillan an-
nouced that the outlook was ex
tremely serious."
St. Paul is preparing to honor Mr.
Hill's memory. Every division point
of the northwest is ready to pay trib
ute in memorial ceremonies.
Facts in Life of James Jerome Hill.
1838 Born near Guelph, Ont
1856 Left father's farm for busi
ness Jife in Minnesota.
1856-1865 In steamboat office in
St. Paul.
1867 Married Mary Theresa Mehe-
gan, of St Paul.
1869-75 Head of Hill, Griggs, &
Co., fuel and transportation.
1870 Established Red River Trans
portation company, first to open com
munication between St Paul and Win
nipeg. 1878 Organized syndicate that se
cured control of the St Paul & Pacific
railway from Dutch owners of securi
ties. 1879 Reorganized road as St Paul,
Minneapolis & Manitoba and became
its general manager.
1882-1890 President of this road,
which became part of the Great North
ern system.
1889-07 President of the entire
Great Northern, which Jhe extended to
Puget Sound from Lake buperior, with
northern and southern branches and a
steamship line to the Orient
1907-12 President of Great North
ern's board of directors.
.; ' -
, , . - , , t .
v , c i
James J. Hill, "Empire Builder."
President outlines
United States Is Pledged to Work for
Harmony Among Nations.
HIGHER DIPLOMACY IS URGED
Address Before Peace League Inter
preted as "Feeler" Looking to
Ending of European War.
t Washington, D. C President Wil
son declared here Saturday night be
fore the League to Enforce Peace that
the United States was ready to join in
any feasible association of nations to
preserve the peace of the world against
political ambition and selfish hostil
ity" and in service of "a common or
der, a common justice and a common
peace. He expressed the hope that
the terms of peace which end the pres
ent war would include such an arrange
ment Outlining suggestions for peace,
which the President said he hoped the
United States would make when it has
the opportunity to do so, be included
provision for absolute freedom of the
seas, a contention which has been the
keystone of all the diplomatic discus
sions with Germany and Great Britain,
and virtual guarantees of territorial
integrity and political independence.
Officials interpreted the President s
address as a preliminary feeler for
peace in Europe. He outlined the
conditions on wihch the United States
would move if it made a formal medi
atory offer with the idea, it was un
derstood, of learning how such sug
gestions would be received abroad.
"I am sure," said the President,
that the people of the United States
would wish their government to move
along these lines:
"First Such a settlement with re
gard to their own immediate interests
aa the belligerents may agree upon.
We have nothing material of any kind
to ask for ourselves and are quite
aware that we are in no sense or de
gree parties to the present quarrel.
Our interest is only in peace and its
future guarantees.
"Second An universal association
of the nations to maintain the invio
late security of the highway of the
seas for the common and unhindered
use of all the nations of the world and
to prevent any war begun either con
trary to treaty covenants or without
warning and full submission of the
causes to the opinion of the world a
virtual guarantee of territorial integ
rity and political independence."
The fundamentals of a lasting peace,
President Wilson said he believed
were:
"First That every people has a
right to choose the sovereignty under
which they shall live.
"Like other nations," the President
said, "we have ourselves, no doubt
once and again offended against that
principle when for a little while con
trolled by selfish passion, as our
franker historians have been honorable
enough to admit but it has become
more our rule of life and action.
"Second That the small states of
the world have a right to enjoy the
same respect for their soverignty and
for ' their territorial integrity that
great and powerful nations expect and
insist upon.
. "And, third, that the world has a
right to be free from every distrub
ance of its peace that has its origin in
aggression and disregard Of the rights
of people and nations."
The outstanding lesson of the world
war, the President said, had been that
the peace of the world must henceforth
depend upon "a new and more whole
some diplomacy."
' Newspaper Black-Edged.
Athens "Whoever dreamed to see
the Bulgarian flag supplant the Greek
flag in Macedonia? Just for this we
have maintained mobilization at the
cost of the economic ruin of the coun
try." M. Venizelos, the former premier,
thus writes in the Herald, the Venizel
ist organ. Feeling runs high over the
Bulgarian invasion of Greece. The
Herald appeared with a black border
as a token of national mourning.
Texas Militiamen Report.
San Antonio, Texas Rapid decreas
es in the number of Texas National
guardsmen who did not respond to the
call to mobilize for service on the bor
der were reported Monday at Fort San
Houston. Of the original 116 who
were cited for court-martial, only 41
remain who still are liable for trial
and it ia confidently expected that be
fore the hearing opens next week the
number will be reduced to less than a
dozen.
NEWS ITEMS
Of General Interest
About Oregon
Winners of Industrial Prizes to
Attend 0. A. C. Summer School
Arrangements have just been com
pleted by J. A. Churchill, Superinten
dent of Public Instruction, for sending
the boys and girls who won the capital
prizes in the industrial club work at
the State fair last fall to the Oregon
Agricultural college for the Boys' and
Girls' Summer school. Twenty-one
children were successful in winning
these prizes at the State fair last Sep
tember. The capital prizes consist
of membership in the short course at
the Agricultural college with all ex
penses paid. It represents the highest
award in each project offered in the
Industrial department at the State fair
last year. The prizes are made possi
ble through contributions made to
Superintendent Churchill for the fur
therance of this work by public-spirited
men and women of the state. Those
who received these awards are: Leland
Charley, Brownaboro; Gertrude Court
ney, La Grande; Earl Stewart Cot
tage Grove; Homer Bursell, Mon
mouth; Hazel Bursell, Monmouth;
Clifford Cook, Yoncalla; Carmen Jones,
Pendleton; Esther Miller, Medford;
Warren McGowan, Independer" ; Har
old Reynolds, Independence; Earl
Cooley, Salem; L. M. Bowles, Dallas;
Rudolph Mullinhoff, Boring; Teddy
Fones, Carlton; Exie Morgan, The
Dalles; Florence Wharton, Roseburg;
Marion Lowe, Nyssa; Mae McDonald,
Dallas; Muriel Blume, Albany; Paul
Jaeger, Sherwood; Claus Charley,
Brownsboro.
The Boys' and Girls' club work
which is carried on co-operatively by
the State department of Education,
the Extension service of the Oregon
Agricultural college and the U. S.
Bureau of Agriculture, ia increasing
in interest to Buch an extent that clubs
are being formed in every section of
Oregon. Since the first of the year
Superintendent Churchill has had two
field workers, N. C. Mans and L. P.
Harrington, continually engaged in
forming clubs throughout the state.
The work of the Agricultural college
in sending to the members of these
clubs, bulletins on how to select seed
care for the growing crops and also
bulletins on canning and sowing, has
made a wonderful advancement in the
standard of the work done by the
school children of Oregon. The ex
ample of Claus Charley of Jackson
county shows what a wholesome in
fluence one boy may have in this work.
At the State fair in 1914 he won the
state prize on his corn. The next
through the efforts of the county
school superintendent and one of the
Medford banks, fifty boys of Jackson
county were supplied with seed corn
selected from Claus Charley's prize
winning corn. Each of the fifty boys
raised from one-eighth to one-fourth
of an acre of corn, the amount which
each boy planted being determined by
the age of the boy. The exhibits of
corn coming from these boys to the
State fair in 1915 were said by judges
to exceed in quality fully 100 per cent
the corn exhibit of 1913.
"As a result of this work," says
Superintendent Churchill, "we can
feel certain that in the next genera
tion there will be a group of expert
farmers and home-keepers in every
rural community of Oregon." I
Coos County Voters Favor
$362,000 Road Building Bonds
Marshfield Complete returns from
the 58 precincts in Coos county give a
majority in favor of good roads bonds
of 618. As soon as the count was
completed the County court issued an
order of the election being carried.
The county precincts, with a few ex
ceptions, those in the northern portion
of the county, including Lakeside,
Templeton, Kentuck and Haynes Inlet
and a few others, voted heavily against
the bonds, and the success was due en
tirely to the heavy votes in the cities.
Coquille had a handsome majority, and
Bandon gave the bonds a great boost
being nearly a three-to-one majority.
The issue calls for the expenditure
of $362,000 for lining and grading, and
it is not expected the fund will pro
vide for any hard surfacing.
- The money will be expended be
tween Marshfield and Coquille, Co
quille and Myrtle Point Bandon and
Coquille, North Bend and North Inlet,
Bandon to the Curry county line.
The argument in favor of bonding
was that money spent from the bond
issue would release the usual road
levies to be expended upon branch
roads.
Roseburg Votes Municipal Railroad.
Roseburg-By a vote of nearly seven
to one, the taxpayers of Roseburg
went to the polls Tuesday and author
ized an amendment to the city charter
making it possible for Roseburg, as a
municipality, to construct and operate
a standard-gauge railroad from this
city to Rock Creek.
ORDERS BRITAIN TO
STOPMAILSEIZURES
U. S. Demands Radical Change
ia "Lawless Practice."
FRANCE INCLUDED IN LATEST PROTEST
"Vexatious" Abuses Perpetrated by
Allies Are Cited Loss Claims
Also to Be Pressed Soon.
Washington, D. C. The United
States, denouncing interference with
neutral mails, has notified Great Brit
ain and France that it no longer can
tolerate the wrongs which American
citizens have suffered and continue to
suffer through the "lawless practice"
those governments have indulged in,
and that only a radical change in pol
icy, restoring the United States to its
full rights as a neutral power, will be
satisfactory.
This notification is given in the la
test American communication to the
two governments, the text of which
was made public by the State depart
ment The time in which the change
must be effected is not specified, but
the United States expects prompt ac
tion. "Onerous and vexatious" abuses,
which have been perpetrated by the
British and French governments in
seizing and censoring neutral mails,
are recited in the communication, and
answers are made to the legal argu
ments contained in the reply of the
entente governments to the first Amer
ican note on the subject It is vigor
ously set forth that not only have
American commercial interests been
injured, but that the rights of proper
ty have been violated and the rules of
international law and custom palpably
disregarded.
Notice is served that the United
States soon will press claims against
the British and French governments
for the losses which already have been
sustained.
Berlin Expects Peace Visit
Berlin, via London Another visit
by Colonel E. M. House to Europe
would come as no surprise to initiated
quarters here. The American rumors
to this effect are regarded as having a
certain basis in fact although the
opinion prevails that the trip would
naturally be postponed until after the
national conventions.
It is hoped here that should Colonel
House pay such a jpisit he will come
this time aa a harbinger of peace, or
at any rate, to prepare, if possible,
the foundations for a peace proposal,
difficult as this task is recognized to
be. .
During his last previous visit to
Europe, Colonel House made no effort
and conducted no investigations in the
direction of peace in Berlin at any
event having, perhaps, found absolu
tely adverse conditions in capitals of
nations hostile to Germany. Presum
ably also he had previous information
that American mediation was not de
sired and it would not be accepted aa
long as the United States continued to
supply Germany's foes with muni
tions. The situation, it may be said, has
now changed. Apparently there is no
harm from either a political or a
strategical standpoint in saying that
Germany would welcome peace.
Standardize Women's Street Dress.
New York Shall the women of
America standardize their street
dress? Two thousand women, dele
gates, alternates and visiting club
members of the 13th biennial conven
tion of the Federation of Women's
Clubs, answered the foregoing ques
tion in the affirmative at an open con
ference of the home economics com
mittee of the federation Saturday.
The committee has spent two years
in investigating the practicability of
the plan, and as a result it is prepared
to introduce a resolution favoring it
at next week's session of the conven
tion. Gowns for evening wear are
to be excluded from the proposed limi
tations. Munitions Fraud Charged.
Chicago Major George H. Avon-
dale and John B. Wettergreen, said to
be hi 8 secretary, are under arrest
charged with fraud in connection with
the sale of war munitions to the Brit
ish government Complaint was made
by the British vice consul here. Hin
ton.G. Clabaugh, division chief of the
department of Justice, charges that
the men represented themselves as
agents of the British government and
obtained money from various persons.
