Ssrt
"fen
n09i0imtmm.wf 'Wwnwimjn' -t" jnwii'jiJ'ji.jyMjyi"i"if)' mii
T"-Kte!fl ltJ - tvt.-t.;,, , j-Vtyt.-M.-.'y H 3!fl
FINANCIAL EDITION
NIGHT
EXTRA
NIGHT
EXTRA
VOL. IT. NO. 252
PHILADELPHIA, "WEDNESDAY, (JULY o, 1 DIG.
CorimoiiT, 1018, nt Tnr Polio Lesoek Court!.
PBICE ONE CENT
c '.
v
ft,'
,
CARRANZA CONCEDES AMERICA'S COMPLAINTS,
STATES HIS AND SEEKS MEDIATION; U. S. WILLING
Mexican Note in Reply
to Ultimatum Re-
ceived
PLAN TO ESTABLISH
PATROL ON BORDER
Trevino's Limit Order on
Troop Movement Dodged
in Answer
GUARD STILL ON MOVE
Lansing Announces This Country
Is Ready to Discuss
Peace Scheme
WASHINGTON, July R. General Venus,
tlnno Carranza, In reply to tho American
demand for a statement ns to his nttltudo
toward the expedition now In Mexico, pro
poses mediation or direct negotiation of tho
points at Ibsuo between the two countries
To this proposition the United States
Government Is favorable, In view of Cnr
ranza'n desire to maintain friendly relations,
as expressed In tho Carranza noto delivered
to Secretary of State Lansing today.
This was made known by the Stato De
partment officially after It had considered
the English tiansl.it Ion of tho message, al
though whether such contlnuanco will bo by
means of mediation or direct negotiations
between the two nations who not revealed
by Secretary Lansing.
Secretary Lansing said, however, that re
jection of formal overtures from tho Bolivian
Minister recently could not be Interpreted
as a final rejection of the principle. In
stead, he pointed out, that was contingent
upon receipt of tho Carranza reply.
The Department's announcement, nsldo
from an expression of willingness to con
tinue negotiations, was merely that tho noto
had arrived, been translated and sent to
Pre3ldont Wilson.
Manifestly, from Lansing's comment, tho
document Is satisfactory, as forecast yes
terday. While tho note la conciliatory In tone, It
states a counter grlovanco and wishes that
Issue, as well as tho American crlovance,
cleared up.
", , POINTS AT ISSUE.
'As stated by Carrania, 'tho situation Is
this:
America demands protection for Its
border towns from tho ravages they
have suffered from Mexican raids.
Mexico considers tho presence of
American troops In Mexico as a tres
pass. Pending negotiations tho Carranza Gov
ernmont promises that It will employ every
means to prevent any now hostile acts that
would be calculated to complicate affairs
and expresses tho hope that tho American
military authorities on the border and In
Mexico will do tho same.
There Is no mention of the Trevlno order
limiting tho movement of tho American
troops In any direction except toward the
border, and the assumption here Is that the
order stands.
Tha Carranza reply has, however, ended
for tho tlmo being nil war talk. In' Wash
ington. Administration officials, after hastily
scanning the document, say that It opens
a way for,a speedy adjustment of all dif
ferences between this Government and tho
de facto Government of Mexico.
The note, a model of brevity, signed by
Foreign Minister Agullar, Is conciliatory In
every paragraph. And while again Insist
ing that the presence of American troops
on Mexican soil which Is characterized as
a trespass on the sovereignty of Mexico
is tho Immediate cause of the conflicts be
tween tho Governments, General Carranza,
for the first time, personally assumes part
of the blamo by admitting that the Inse
curity of the frontier gives the UnltecTstates
a just causa for complaint against his
Government.
OPENS WAY TO PARLEY.
By doing so, officials say, he ties the
hands of the Administration so far as any
'aggressive military measures in Mexico
proper are concerned, and opens the way to
a diplomatic parley to settle all points in
dispute.
Both at the White House and at the
State Department It is said that the fact
that the note was not responsive to the
demand of tha United States that Carranza
define his Intentions toward the Amer
Continued on I'aie l'lrr, Column Four
$750,000 FOR CUSTOM
HOUSE SITE HERE
House Committee on Grounds
Favors Appropriation Moore
Fights for Building
WASHINGTON, July 5. Philadelphia fs
virtually assured of a new custom house
by the action of the House Committee pn
Public Buildings and Grounds today In vot
ing for art. appropriation of $760,000 for a
site for a building In that city. This
amount will be placed In the omnibus public
buildings bill and will be passed by Con
gress. President Wilson has declared opposition
to such a bill and may veto it
Representative Hampton Moore is author
of the bl), which calls for J2, 000. 000 for a
site tor a custom house and a building Hw
estimates that $750,000 will purchase a
Site and that the next Congress will pro
vide for a building However, he will make
a, fight for an appropriation for thq build-
CARRANZA'S REPLY TO U. S. NOTE
Mr. Secretary:
I navo the honor to transmit In continuation the text of a note, which
I have Just received from my Government, with Instructions to present
it to your Excellency:
Mr, Secretary: ,
neferrliiR to the no'es of Juno 20 and 25 last, I have the honor to
say to your Excellency Hint tho lmmedlato release of the Carrlzal prison
ers wasn further proof of the sincerity of tho deslio of this Government
to reach a pacific and satisfactory arrangement of present difficulty.
This Government Is anxious to boIvo the present conflict, and It would bo
unjust If Its nttltudo should be misinterpreted. l
It wai al"jo the Mexican Government that earnestly suggested tho
plan for cantonments rlonff tho boundary lino during tho conferences of
Cludact Juaiez and El Paso. This Government Is disposed no', as It has
always beon, to seek nr. Immediate solution of tho two points which con
stitute the truo causes of tho conflict between the two countries, to wit:
Tho American Government Ivlleves reasonably that tho Insecurity of
Its frontier Is a source of difficulty, and tho Mexican Government on Its
part believes that tho stay of American troops on Mexican territory, nsldo
from belns tresspass on tho sovcielgnty of Moxlco, Is the Immediate causo
of the confilcY
There'ore, tho withdrawal of American troops, on tho one Hand, and
tho protection of tho frontier, on tho other, are the two essential problems
tho solution of which must bo tho directing object of the effort of both
Government.
Tho Mexican Government le willing to consider In a quick and prac
tical way and prompted by a spirit of concord tho remedies which should
oo applied to the prcse.it situation.
Several Latin-American countries have offered their friendly media
tion to the Mexican Government, nnd the latter has accepted It In prin
ciple. Therefore, tho Mexican Government only awaits Infotmatlon that
the Government of tho United States would he disposed to accept this
mediation for tho purposo mentioned above, or whether It Is still of tho
belief that the same icsults may be attained by means of direct negotia
tions btwecn both Governments.
In the meantime, this Government purposes to employ all efforts that
may be ac its disposal to avoid tho recurrence of new incidents which may
compllcato and aggravate the situation. At tho same time, It hopes that
tho American Government on Its part also may make use of all efforts
to prevent acts of Its military nnd civil authorities of the frontier which
may causo now complications.
I avail mvself of this opportunity to reiterate to your Excellency tho
assuiance of my most distinguished consldeiatlon.
C. AGUILAR.
Having thus compiled with tho higher Instruction? of my Govern
ment, It affords me pleasuro to reiterate to your Excellency the assurance
of my highest consideration. E. ARRENDONDO.
SECOND REGIMENT
IN PERIL ZONE OF
MEXICAN SNIPERS
Rifles Poked From Windows
for Quick Use, if
Needed
COL. TURNER PREPARED
By CARL L. EISBERG
Evmtna Ledger Staff Correwondent
ABILENE, Tex., 2d Regiment Troop
Train En Tloute to El Paso, July G.
Mexican snipers are at work on tho Texas
and Pacific Railway line lear Sierra nianca,
Tex., over which this train will pass to
night. This Information was gien to
Colonel Hamilton D. Turner, commander
of tho 2d Regiment, today by railroad of
ficials, who reported that one of the rail
road guards had been killed by Mexicans
near Sierra Blanca July 3d and that a
Connecticut troop train had been fired upon
by a sniper near tho same town on tho
same day. It confirmed rumors at Texar
kana that a troop train had been the target
of a bullet and furnished added .details
that were not available until today.
Colonel Turner, his staff and officers of
the 1st Battalion who are on thl3 train,
at once took stock of their ammunition.
Thn dead cuard was one of the two sta
tioned at a bridge near Sierra Blanca.
which lies 92 miles east of EI Paso. The
railwav from Sierra Blanca to El PaBO Is
closely watched by both Government and
railroad guards, heavily armed, ngjfeist
raiding parties from across tha borderTOie,
which runs almost parallel to the track at
a distance of from one to 10 miles all the
way to El Paso from Van Horn. East of
Sierra Blanca to Fort Hancock on tha west
Is considered the danger zone. The rail
road has placed guards at bridges and
other points where ambush Is possible.
From Fort Hancock west to El Paso,
Government motorcycle guards, working In
pairs, patrol the road. Every precaution
to assure the safe arrival of the train Is
being taken.
The news that snipers might "let fly" at
them was treated as a joke by tha sol
dlers, who welcomed the thought of a pos
sible brush with the enemy.
READY FOR ATTACK.
There Is no use becoming excited about It.
Rifles noked their lean black noses from
every co-ch window, and rumors of Mexi
can snipers and tiack dynamiters flew past
with the panoramic landscape of Texas
prairie land,
But the rifles were not loaded, and leaned
against the windows because they were
more comfortable (here. And the rumors
of hostile Mexicans, which sprang up like
mushrooms, lived about as long as mush
rooms. It was more than romantic though, as we
drew into the alkali plains of western
Texas, near the goal of our long military
pilgrimage, where Mexican hyphens became
as thick as files on an uncovered garbage
can, that rumors of troop trains fired upon
and of bridges blown up increased In num
ber, and it was thrilling at last to be on
the threshold of the scene where war news
springs Into being.
LITTLE AMMUNITION ABOARD.
The ammunition on this train, ready for
instant use bhould a malevolent Mexican
nine taken a pot shot at the American
"machine." was confined to the pergonal
supply for the officers' sldearms. The
Sprfasfield 90s with, which the troops were
, C I- , T
GERMANS CHECK
SLAV OFFENSIVE
ATBARANOWITCHI
Berlin Reports Russians Re
pulsed, With Heavy Losses,
by Bavarian Army
TEUTONS' LINES PIERCED
BERLIN, July C In stubborn hand-to-hand
fighting, German troops under Prince
Leopold of Bavaria have repulsed tho Rus
sians near Baranovltschl, Inflicting severe
losses, tho War Office announced this nftor
noon. rnTROGRAD, July 5 Fighting of the
most violent character Is now In progress
along tho entire front In Gallcla and
RU3Sla, according to an official dispatch
Issued by tho Russian War Office today.
The struggle Is particularly 6evere In the
Bector of Barauovltch. The fortified town
of Kklmovttchl, east of Baranovitch, has
changed hands a number of times, but Is
now In possession of the Russians.
West of Kolkl, tho report says, the Rus
sians have occupied the first-lino positions
of the Germans.
The following is the text of the official
report:
Northwest of Baranovitch the enemy
Is endeavoring to stop our offensive.
Cklmovltchl, east of Baranovitch, has
changed hands repeatedly, but Is now In
our possession.
Northwest of Czartorusk we occupied
a strongly fortified enemy sector In tha
region of Galouzlskala, taking a number
of prisoners, ,
West of Kolki we occupied first line
trenches of the enemy In the region of
Touman (Tlmucz).
South of Stockhod as far as the Zlota
Llpa desperate fighting continues.
Along the southern ranges of the Car
pathian mountains, according to dispatches
from tha front, the Cossacks have succeeded
in forcing some passes and are now
advancing into the Hungarian plains.
LONDON, July 6. Russian cavalry pa
trols have crossed the Carpathians and en
tered Hungary, according to a wireless dis
patch received here from Bucharest.
The dispatch says that the patrols ad
vanced from Klmpolung and entered Hun
garian territory on Tuesday. They cut tele,
graph wires and blew up buildings In which
food and ammunition were stored. It is
added that the news that invaders are
again on Hungarian soil caused a deep im
pression (n Budapest.
Meanwhile the Czar's armlos are attack
ing again along the whole length of their
front. An entirely new offensive has been
opened against, Prince Leopold's Bavarian
forces In tha region of Baranovichi, where
the Russians have pierced the Qcrman lines
at two places.
Around Kolomea the battle continues
with Increasing fury. The Russians claim
to have dislodged the Austrians from sev
eral positions west of the stronghold and to
have occupied tho village of Potolt
Tcharney. '
But 27 miles north of Kolomea south
east of Tlumach Berlin reports that von
Bothmer's forces drove the Russians back
on a front 12 H miles wide and more than
Sti miles deep.
This report Indicates that General von
Bothmer's forces roust have fallen back
from the Tarnopol front in an effort to
meet tho threat to his. communication It
GERMANS WIN
TWO BATTLES
INJEMLTIC
Force Flotilla of Slav De
stroyers and Cruiser
Squadron to Retire
OFFICIAL ANNOUNCEMENT
Several Explosions Noticed on
the Russian Men
of Wnr
BHRLIN, July 5.
Two naval engagements wcro fought In
the Baltic south of llnofrlngc on the night
of June 29-30.
Both were successful for 'the Germans,
says an official announcement made through
the Overseas News Agency today. It fol
lows: "German torpedoboats 20 miles south of
Haefringo sighted three hostile destroyers,
apparently of the Nolk type,
(The Nolk destroyers were built In 1011
and carry four 4-Inch guns, four machine
guns nnd four torpedo tubes. Their com
plement Is 100 men.)
"The Germans opened fire nnd the enemy
shlpi Immediately turned and made off, their
escape bring favored by :i rainstorm.
"Later tho Germans noticed new clouds
of smoko tonnrd the cast and the German
ships were directed toward them. Two hos
tile cruisers of the MaKarov and Oleg types
and fivo destroyers wcro recognized.
"Tho German ships ntacked tho Russians
with torpedoes nnd with their nrtlllery.
Several explosions wcro noticed on the Rus
sian men-of-war, up to which time the Rua
slant had been shelling tho Germans heavily
with guns of nil calibres. The firing censed.
hovecr, nnd fog enmo up, which caused
the ndxersnrlcs to luse sight of each other."
BARTRAM HOMESTEAD BURNED
Firo Loss in West Goshen Estimated nt
$8000
WEST CHESTER. Fa, July 6. A lnrgo
stone farmhouse, known nil the Jonathan
Bartrnm homestead, owned by Hoopca
Uios. & Thomas Company, of hia place.
In West Goshen township, was destroyed
by fire late yesterday. The blaze started
from a defective chimney. Tho loss was
about $8000, partly covered by Insurance.
Tho building was occupied by Walter
Dunning, an errPloyo of the nursery firm
which owned the building The goods on tho
lower floor were saved. Dunning had no
Insurnnce His loss Is several hundred
doltnrB.
MOORE ASKS INQUIRY
INTO TRANSPORTATION
OF EASTERN TROOPS
Philadelphia Congressman Calls
on Secretary of War for Ex-
'planation of Discomforts on
Jourvy to Border
ANTIQUA?
CARS USED
WASHINGTON, Jul 5. Through a reso
lution Introduced In the House today. Rep
resentative J. Hampton Moore, of Philadel
phia, proposes to draw from Secretary of
War Raker an exhaustive explanation os to
why National Guard troops have been
moved from eastern States to tho Mexican
border In antiquated day coaches.
The resolution asks for this Informa
tion: "Whether the troops of .the National
Guard, mustered Into the service of the
United States and on their way to Mexico,
have been or are being transported in cars
lacking sleeping berths, and If eo, how
many men are assigned to a car.
"Whether such cars have been or are be
ing used to transport said troops wlhout
light.
"Whether said cars have been sidetracked
and delayed en route to accommodate private
business, and If so whether the fault lies
with the Department of War or the rail
roads, and If the railroads, which rail
roads. "Whether it Is true that the troops en
route have not been properly fed by the
Government, hae been obliged to seek food
of citizens, and that the supply of drinking
water In the cars used by them has been In
sufficient.
"yhether cars used for the transporta
tion of National Guard troops mustered into
the United States service are inspected to
protect the health and safety of the troops
assigned to them, and by whom.
"Whether, being mustered Into the serv
ice of the United States, the troops of the
National Guard are properly equipped with
arms to defend their country In battle. If
called upon to do so."
ARMY OFFICERS REPET.
United States Army officers, assigned to
the Quartermaster's Department, contend
that National Guard troops have suffered
no hardships in being forced to travel from
Fennsyhanta, 'New York, Massachusetts
and other Atlantic Coast States to .Missouri
and further west In antiquated day coaches.
One of the highest officers In the Quarter
master General's office said today:
'Traveling in day coaches la the easiest
part of the work the guardsmen will havo
to perform. If they were In real war they
would have to travel In box cars. It is no
hardship to have to sleep in a day oeach.
-We hao supplied the troops with tourist
sleepers whenever possible. There are but
709 tourist cars in the whole United States,
and, more than S00 of these have been
turned over to the Federal Government for
military movements. A3 fast as the troops
V f V l n T
QUICK NEWS
PHILLIES 10 0
BOSTON 0 0 0
Itixcy niul Ruins; Btiincs and Gowtty
FORT ERIE RACING RESULTS
Frist race, 3-yonx-olds nnd up, selling, 0 uiloiigs Dilly Frew,
100. roichnnd, X ffQ, $1G.80 nnd $8 70, won; Moss JFox, 111, Obett,
ij3.'10 nnd ?3.2,i5ecoiul; Mtuisolus, 118, Bums, $1.G0, tlihd.
l'lmc, 1.10 3-0.
AQUEDUCT RACING RESULTS (
First race, 3-ycnr-olds nnd up, belling-, purse ."jSOOO, 0 la fur
longs Gloaming, 110, H.iyncs, -1 to 1, 8 to 5 and ! to 5, Won; Humlllti
Hon, 10D, Ball, 12 to 1, 0 to 1 nnd 5 toIsccond; Bob Kciisley, 100,
Mitik, 3 to 1, 0 to 5 nnd 3 to D, thiid. Time, 1.JJ0.
MEXICO FREES AMERICAN ACCUSED OF MURDER
WASHINGTON, Julyu 5. The State Department was offlcinlly
ndvlscd this afternoon oT the lelense by tlic Carrnnzn nuthoiitles nt
Mncozni-1, Sonorn, Mexico, of Norton Hand, an American, charged with
murdering n Mexican. Hnnd leturned to the United States nt Doug
Ins, Ariz. ,' "
SENATE DEMOCRATS TO HOLD CAUCUS TONIGHT
WASHINGTON, July 5. Democratic .IcrtdeiK in the Senate this"
afternoon called a caucus of Senate Democrats for tonight to decide
upon n legislative ptogrnm for the remainder of the session. A fight
is expected over the course to be followed with legnrd to tho shipping
bill. A gient deal of opposition hns, developed to talcing up the meas
ure this seboion. 1'icsidcnt Wilson is -anxious tlmt the bill become
a law at once.
NEW ARMY DIVISION GOES INTO EFFECT ON BORDER
WASHINGTON, July 5. The War Department announced this afternoon tliat
Its orders dividing tho force along the Mexican border into three commands went
Into effect today. Tho department Is now awaiting word from General Pershing
ns to whether ho will return from the Interior of Mexico to El Paso to tnke com
mand of tho New Mexico division. It was announced that he would b.avo to go to
131 Paso If ho desires tho cammand nnd that the decision had been left with hlfn.
ROADS RETARD U. S. CAMPAIGN IN SANTO DOMINGO
WASHINGTON, July 6. Ordinary Seaman John D. Kelly, of tho Memphis, was
wounded, not necessarily fatally, at Santo Domingo City Sunday, n Navy Depart
ment messago said today. Thl3 said, too, that the expedition toward Santiago is
progressing slowly, due to bad roads nnd slight; unimportant resistance.
STORM-TOSSED VERA CRUZ REFUGEES IN HAVANA
HAVANA, July 6. Tho Wnrd liner Monterey arrived tqd.iy from Vera Cruz
with a large number of American ref usees. It was 26 hours lato, owing to a
severe storm. Tho Navy Department had radiographed nil Its vessels In nearby
southern waters to be on tho lookout for tho Monterey. i
ADMIRAL WINSLOW WILL BE RETIRED JULY 29
WASHINGTON, July 5. Admiral Wlnslow, commander of tho Pacific fleet,
will bo retired for ago July 2D, according to orders from tho Navy Department today.
STEAMSHIP SHELLS U-BOAT, BERLIN REPORTS
BERLIN (via wireless to Sayvillo), July 6. A submarine of the Central Powers
was shelled by a large steamship of unknown nationality nt a range of about six
miles east of the Balearic Islands In the Mediterranean on May 27, It was learned
today, when tho submarine returned to its home port. The submarine had not even
stopped tho steamship. The undersea boat was not harmed.
MEXICANS FOUND HIDDEN ON JERSEY TROOP TRAIN
QUINCY, Ills., July B. Local police today frustrated what is believed to have
been an nttempt to wreck tho first of three trains carrying the fourth New Jersey
Infantry to the Mexican border. When the train reached hero three Mexicans were
found hiding on the tender nnd they could give no account of themselves. They
were taken off and hold here until the train had left. Guards were stationed on the
car platforms as the train pulled out.
STROMBOLI DESTROYS HOUSES AND THREATENS PEOPLE
UOME, July 5. Relief parties started from Messina today to-rcscue Inhabitants
of Stromboll Island, threatened by the violent eruptions of the Stromboll volcano,
Tho fires from Stromboll can be seen distinctly from Messina and the Sicilian coast.
Many houses have been destroyed. When last advices reached Messina the 2500
inhabitants of the island had congregated near the seashore.
MEXICANS BURN PRESIDENT WILSON IN EFFIGY
EL PASO, Tex., July 5. Mexican mobs have burned President Wilson In effigy
in many towns of the State of Michoacan. according to Frank P. Smith, an Amer
ican engineer who fled from Mexico to save his life. He stated today that starva
tion, attributed by Carranzlsta officials to an American embargo on food, is preva
lent in Michoacan and that the natives have threatened to kill all citizens of the
United States.
500,000 TEUTONS LOST IN LAST MONTH
PARIS, July 5. German and Austro-Hungarian losses of the last month total
half a million men. according to figures presented today by the Matin. It says
that the Russians have taken 232,300 unwounded prisoners, the Italians 470oJfnd
the Anglo-French forces 14,200, Multiplying the total of prisoners by two tojestl
mate the number of killed and wounded, it gets an aggregate of slightly more than
500,000, or more than 12 army corps.
RUMANIA SEIZES 250 AUSTRIAN CARS
LO,NDON, July 5. The Rumanian Government seized 250 cars' and six locomo
tives belonging to Austro-Hungarian railways which were sent into Rumania while
the Russians were advancing In Bukowina, a Bucharest dispatch reports. All ex
portation to Bulgaria has been suspended.
LORD DERBY MAY SUCJCELii KITCHENER
LONDON, July 5. An intimation that Lord Derby will succeed the late Lord
Kitchener as Secretary fo "War was given in the House of Lorda yesterday by Lord
Sandhurst dur.ng a -speech..
' " ' ''" i .,..-..
ALL BUT 200 AMERICANS OUT OF MEXICO CITY
WASHINGTON. July 5. Almost every American who desires to leave has been
started from Mexico City for the United States. Consul General Rodgers, at the
Mexican capital, today reported to the State Department that there were 200 Amer
icans still in Mexico Ctyy, but that almost all of them had determined to remain
there no matter what happened. Ho said 66 Americana left there July 2 for
era Crux Jn a special car.
SOFIA BOMBARDED BY FRENCH AVIATORS "
LONDQN, July 6. A squadron of French aeropline vUlttd Sofia yesterday
morning an dropped bombs on the military buildings, tays a Reuter dispatch from
R-,1, tM.-s No damage was done a dispatch from Sofia claims.
rV
FRENCH SWEEP
ON IN PICARDY;
SHELL PERONNE
Foch's Troops Capture
New Ground in Fierce
Fighting"
15,000 GERMANS TAKEN
SINCE DRIVE BEGAN
Teutons Battle Desperately
to Halt Enemy's Increas
ing Advance
BERLIN DISCOUNTS LOSSES
Haig Reports Further Progress
for British North of
Somme
tejMM&m
GEN. FERDINANI? FOOK
Ths French leader, wtio dis
tinguished himself nt the bnttlc of
the Manic, is noy co-operating
with the British on tho Somme.
French troop3 last night resumed
their great drive against the Germans
on both sides of the River Somme.
North of tho Somme tho French have
extended their gains near Corlu and
ore shelling Peronne, their main ob
jective. South of the Somme, following fur
ther gains, French infantry captured
the Sormont Farm, situated on the left
bank of the river across from Clery.
All the southern region between this
farm and Hill 63, on the road between
Flaucourt and Barleux, fell into tho
hands of the French.
The position at Belloy envSanterre,
captured by the French Monday, wa
attacked by the Germans during tho
night. They captured the eastern part
of the village, but were nfterward eject
ed by a counter-attack, according to
the Paris War Office.
The Germans are still holding part of
the village of Estrees (southwest of
Peronne), where the struggle is most
violent. All German counter-attacks
broke down under French fire.
"The total number of unwounded
German prisoners in our hands thus far
is over 9000, The number of guns cap
tured is yet unknown. A single French
army corps, operating south of the
Somme, captured 60 guns," the French
official statement asserts.
British troops made further prog
ress at important points last night in
heavy fighting between the Ancre and
the Somme, General Haig, British commander-in-chief,
reported today,
"At the Thiepval (northeast of Al-
Contlnoed on Face Fire, Column Oa
THEWEATHEE
The Fourth has gone.
The fellow who dhlnks only of the happy
side of life Is nopiKurlng out hou he can
mak a splash during his vacation an4
leave a millionaire impression with a cleric's
salary,
lie should comfort himself with the
thought that many a millionaire -was one
a clerk Many of them became such b;
emitting vacations and buying stock with
the extra spending money. But stock and
bond certificates are very dry reading on
a hot summer afternoon, so if you hava
vacation money use it for that purpose. It
may at least delay a doctor's bill or, the
purchase of a torabatne. incidentally th
leather is conducive to health. Why not
He and nJoy it?
FORECAST
For Philadelphia and vicinity FiiiVJ
wtatner ana ?noaeme (einpcracureg re
711 on f ana i auruuy, tohh, rwrfji
eriy wmas.
LOST AiTD FOtRJI
UMBRELLA to- !..'" Sf TWnl NlocJ
lualt. tiroaa and Mrltt . tu qweur i J
inA bllt udrtM but out at town ruir dUI
retura Ji rc, w4. 4wtf wu-ia
MAI.V-. IRBNCK POODLE luK SunJly s.
tut lit tns lUliQDornnoa 91 ,-L30 Siijia 14
Aodtr lrao return it tin of Ij hrch. J
ncArcea e&uaxesi mwxv t ,nfnzn js
?&$S3 "
0ibr l-t tni Vqai A4 ts ts 11
A
m
c
