WlW.lM'''tS, 'ii
THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair to-day and to-morrow; warmer in
interior; moderate winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 74; lowest, 63.
Detailed weather, mall ai"l marine reports on page !.
tin
IT SHINES FOR ALL
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 309.
CARRANZANOTE
A BACKDOWN TO
UNITED STATES
Conciliatory Tone Believed
to Tavc Way for Peace
ful Solution.
XONEWDEJIAXDFOlt
TROOPS' WITHDRAWAL
Protection by Mexican
Forces to American Lives
and Property Pledged.
LANSING EXPECTS TO
HAVE REPLY TO-DAY
Wilson to Make No Change
However, in Guard Move
ments to Border.
WAfin.Ni.TO:, July 4. The long cx-
prctcii note from the Carranza Gov
ernment reached Washington to-day.
1: ninvfd at the Mexican Embassy
i.J probably will be presented to See
re ury of State I.atirlng to-morrow by
KUseo Arredondo, Mexican Ambassa
dor Designate.
In striking contrast to the belliger
ent fine of previous communications
irom Mexico city the new note, accord-
I
,r.g to embassy oaiclals, U decidedly
ivnclllatory and Is characterized by an '
. . . ..... .. . . I
HTOiiwireuii incpiinui mc
cm authorities to reach nil amicable,
understanding with thc American Gov
ernmeti t.
It concedes, members of thc cmliassy j
itAft state, the contention of the
I'nlted States that conditions along tho
border by reason of tho bandit raids
have been intolerable, and extend
urong promise by the Mexican Oov
trnment to restore order and protect
American territory from further raids.
No Withdrawal Demand.
Moreover. It Is Mid the note does not tYiotism o? Mr? lluahe. ami, S.a Vi.Vh.7J .
ipecitically renew the demands for a . wm,n he had concluded a call for "three "viao,,,,,;, Mississippi Arkansas. Flor
mithdrawal of the American forces, ciders for our next President" met a GorBi, Kentucky, Iiulsiana, North
but, contending that the presence of (hearty response. ! and South Carolina, Tennessee, Vlrnlnla
the troops on Mexican soil contributes,
!o the unsettled conditions, suggests
'l,at their withdrawal would go far
toward removing the causes of friction
. :
rnd iilltulty.
Caillrt attention to the fact that the
t .ir-vizA !overnment has accepted tho
T Hi iple of mediation as suggested by
' if 'l Towers, It Invites a like expres
!'' fi mil the I'nlted States. At the same
t me rii. opinion Is expressed that more
s.' -fiitnry results could be obtained
' r ii-', direct negotiations.
' s explained at the embassy that
' e 'iinnmnle.-itlon Is Intended to serve
t .Willi!,- purose of answering the
A-i.e-ne.-in note of June 25, which was
' t the tune of the Imprisonment of
i nerlcan troopers at Chihuahua and
! ijs,d n statement of Carranza's fu-
c intentions and likewise, a response
i.n li in to the American note of June
li!eh rejected the demands of Car
r.iia.i fur nu Immediate withdrawal of
the A met lean forces,
nndues Trewlno' Orders.
V the same. time. It Is said that the
rt .e e'arranza note does not refer to the
e.-i lued by Oen. Jacinto Trevlno,
'li- .Mexican commander, to nttack any
Anie-iiau ilet.ichments In Mexico that
1 .mid attempt to move In any direction
"'her than toward tho border, although
l' wa concerning the authority for these
'rde-is that tho American note particu
larly Inquired.
The embassy officials In seeking to ex
llaln tnu conciliatory character of the
cimmu-iliatlnn received to-dav expressed
" oplninn that It wns written per
vnully liy tjen. Carr.inza and was In
spired to a certain extent by the favor
i 'It- liiipnslnn created In Mexico city
ly I rcsliiint Wilson's New York speech
Ml hy the fact that Gen. Pershing's
foice h being giadually withdrawn to-
arn 1 lie border.
While oltlclals of the State Department
haw- not been Informed directly of the
foments of thc note the opinion was ex
reined irksome quarters that the action
f.t inn President In calling out the Na
tion il iJu.ird of the country may have
"u a subcring effect on Carranzas ad'
j-r.i,
It H declared hv memhers of the em
fcan'v narf that the e-ommunlcatlon In
"0 sinse corresK)iids with the belligerent
tstemsnt Issued by Foreign Minister
Aulur in Mexico city last week, and
the Intimation Is thrown out that this
statement was intended merely for "home
wnsumnuon.
see Whj Out of Crlsln.
If the ieyt nt the nntn lte.irM nut fn.
1's statements made at the embassy
toiieernirg It it Is believed, not only In
katlii American diplomatic, (piarters, but
'neitlL' nilllv .illlci.ils of the Ailmlnlatrn.
bon. that .1 way out of the. difficulty will
Although the position of the State De
partment heretofore has been that the
Atn'-rloni troops could not bo entirely
'lthijr.iwn so ionK the Mexican Gov
rnrn,Ti n fused to accept the obligations
f li'itoi mg oidet. tieiertheless. It was
ro.i.t i i tiH. it,,ited States alwavs
rai t..cn wiling to withdraw when any
"muni. could bo given of policing the
r.orthrrn country'by Mexican troops.
In Mexican quarters to-night the feel
"5 is strong that nothing now stands
,r"' way of nn adjustment along
the'
infs ... rtelrl,..! flia ITnlfft1 Hl.l.a
' " nB in KOod faith. It Is pointed out
wuii, the, retirement of lien. Persh'
" l'iiird the border Oen. Trevlno'i
"'"l-s have gradually taken over the
"J'itii'1 or the territory as h moves
"'"I Should ho withdraw entirely It
" - iiinel at the embassy that uen
'n would have plenty of troops to
r''' t nil the country south of the
. .1.1111 an, 1 prevent any further bandit
,..i nit,. Ain,.r eiiii lerrllurv.
In oilier words, It Is declared, Car'
li il e,ii i.il.il f'c'jC.
U. S. RETAINS OLD
SPIRIT. SAYS HUGHES !
Republican Nominee Speaks
Hcforo Crowd of 10,000 at
Easthampton.
. i
"NOT SEEKING TROUIILE'!
Fourth of July Audience;
tr i .... . .
nenrs i-.xnctiy V lint It ;
Wants, and Cheers.
IlnnuMr. N Y.. July !.- w.vs.iinotox. July .Kour State,,
are not a rash people ami no are not NVw Yorli, Pennsylvania, Illinois ami
tilled with n spirit of militarism. Wo Ma.Mehu,etts paid morn than $75,
are not anxious to get Into trouble, but 000i000 of siS6MS9 , lncomc
If anybody thinks the spirit of service ' tax turne(1 , , thc nMonttl trcn,urv
and sacrifice Is lost and that we have ,,urn(? the ,,, yenr ,,;. whlch cnM
not the old sentiment of self-respect, he! June 30, A ,ablo Ufd 0.d b Sec.
doesn't understand the United States." rctary McA(loo of paj,llcn(s b ntfrnM
That was one of the passages In a revctme dt9trlcts ghows ,hiU New York
Fourth of Juty address-hls first real! aIono pa,d ,,5,23o.579. and that the
speech since his nomination - which eale,t percentage of Increase which
Charles E. Hughes made at Easthamp-; ralse, tho tot;ll from ,nc 8O,O0O.O0O col
ton this afternoon. Mr. Hughes had , ltcUtl Iast ,ar can,0 from , four
acceptoa me invitation to attend the,
celebration and review a preparedness,
parade on condition that he should not
be called upon to speak. IJut after I
Augustus Thomas, tho playwright, and
James Bouvler, a New York lawyer, had
spoken, John Drew, the actor, who pro-
sided, Insisted that the Hopubltcan noml-'
nee also should face the crowd of 10,000
assembled on the village green.
.SrfZT Jn.ZTn,
for fifteen minutes and gave his audi-
cnC8 cxac,y wnat u wanted. There
wcre cheers when he said, "It Is because
. . ........ .
no nao men iw wen willing w unpr,i
to die, to venture and to sacrifice that!
we have a country, and It Is only by ,
that snlrlt that we will ever be able to
keen a country " 1
I
Illte at Headline.
Applause greeted also thc assertion,
"There Is a vast amount of good Judg-
mcnt In this country, much more than
the headlines seem to Indicate. The 1
people took this as a reference to nead-i
lines describing the Administration s ai-
tltude toward the Mexican troubles.
Hut the greatest demonstration fol-
lowed the declaration that the American
spirit of self-respect still lives. It was
romics crept into uie p.iruuo ui
motor propelien noats wnicn 1
for? r- a"S -Mr-":.. v." '"Z 1
iw.u .... --
nnn ins emier rrviuwria uciwir ... ,
speaking began. One of the banners
read, "Hughes ijnd Preparedness." The
nominee, planned his hands when he saw-
the legend, "Abraham Lincoln was not
too proud to fight." and again when a car
appeared In which were two gray haired
.............. nsmir iiriiit hnri. banner in
scribed. "Has the blood washed In "HI
turned 'to water In 1916?" In thc coursei '
of his nddress Mr. Hughes said: j
"I have been long on silence anu e-u
iihort on talk. I cannot, however, ror-1
bear to say a word to you on mis i.j , 1 ii-i-hiimi u.ui uit-.i 10 mociv mc sm
whlch evokes thc American spirit. It Is frajje movement.
an odd experience tnai 1 .uu K" ;
through picking up the threads of old
relations I have lived at least five I
years In the last three weeks. One of
,h nioasnntest incidents of my return
to New York Is sojourning with you In
the shadow of the American flag.
Wherever that nag noais inero
shrine. There Is a proud privilege In
celebrating this anniversary In a spot
like this, .for this place was settled by
men of Indomitable spirit, the kind of
men who made America.
Willing- to Give Lives.
it is all very well to talk about the
declaration and the strong sentiments
which It contains, mil 11 was ustwu uj
men men who couiein 1 nave munc .
it men who couldn't have committed it
to memory, men who couldn't have re
peated It. but men In wnose lives was
the Incarnation 01 niutimiiv
whose spirit was breathed Into that im
mortal document.
"It Is because we nau men m
...mio. in uoft-er. to die. to venture and
to sacrifice that wo have a country, and
It Is onlv by that spirit that we will
ever be able to keep a country.
"We are not a rasn people aim c
not filled with a spirit of militarism.
We are n-,t anxious to get Into trouble,
but If anybody thinks that the spirit )f
service and sacrifice Is lost, and that
we have not got tne 01a srimuicm
self-respect, he docs not understand the
United States.
"I do hope tnat in me muni
,u... , munie-some. conditions we will
have a better realization of our national
strength and of the import of our demo,
cratlc Institutions.
What the Nation Xerde.
vn. vast extent of territory, not great
population, not simply extraordinary sta-
tlStlCS Ol nitliuil.il ,--..... -
need more than anything elso Is an In
telligent comprehension of the Ideals of
democracy. Those ideals aro that every
man shall have a fair and equal chance
according to his talents.
"It Is not an Ideal of democracy that
one alone shall emerge because of con
splcuous ability, but that there shall be
n. Kreat advance of the plain people of
the country, upon whom the prosper!:y
of the country depends.
"When we are thinking of the Ideals
of democracy we are thinking of the
schools, and we deplore every condition
in which we find man lower than he
should be tinder a free government.
Mv dieam of America Is America rep
li' -..4 in nnhilc office hv Its best men.
men working entirely for the good of
the republic and Becoming 10 ine i,i
Lj ina..,'es established by the people
for the government of their conduct
and not for their personal and political
desires and ambitions ; America working
her Institutions as they wero Intended
... t. nrkr1. with men whose sole ob-
tect shall be to obtain tho ends for
which their offices were designed.
in,.. 1 he ftxerriKca Mr. Hughes ap
, in tho role of a baseball fan,
watching with Mrs. Hughes seven In
nlngs of a game lietween local teams.
Tho two drove back to Hrldgehampton
this evening. Mr. Hughes will go to
New York to-morrow morning to confer
I with Chairman wiucox. in onyvvie tu
j u turn liero Thursday afternoon.
NEW YORK, WEDNESDAY, JULY 5, 1916. Copyright. 1016. hy the Sun PrMlnp and I'ublhhtnp Aiaoclatlon.
NEW YORK
STATE'S INCOME TAX I
SHARE, $45.230.579 !
Pennsylvania Second With!
$i;,10:i,m Paid to the
(Jovernincnt.
TOTAL IS 12,07,0
Illinois Yields 910,745.01-1
and Mas.Micliusctls Fourth
With $11,762,017.
stalM hwdl.d b). New York
Tne t0(al corporaton tax frolll
lx Ncw Vork dlstrctB was jn.cm.075
and thc personal tax wast 130,280,604.
New York's total corporation tax last
year was $10,221,206 and Its tax on In
dividual Incomes was $17,417,537.
Pennsylvania contributed thc second
largest toll. $13,102,431, of which $C,-
7!ICl'.:30 was rornor:itlon t:ix nnd llV-
,,S,S04 "aS ,nd,vldual- "s ""P"od
w(n j4 75 139 and $4 64" 557 for the
previous j-car. Illinois 'was third, with
J.".r.7!i.ir,2 and $.".,li;6,6i9. a total of $10,
74f..S41. A eur .icq llllnoU ti.ilil 12
. I
::::.: ,-,-, .,.,V. "
tnx hl year w.is lti.7C2.017. of which
$2,668,144 was corporation Income tax
and $4,193,873 was personal, as com-1
pared with $1,853,057 and $2,683,084 u
year ago.
Seven other districts paid well over
f 1,000,000 each into the fund. Ohio paid
16,043,935, of which $3,647,656 was cor-
poration taX- California and Nevada,
comprislng one district, paid $1,937.65 '
rorDoratlon and $1,493,839 individual:
Connecticut nnd Ithode Island $1,692,183 ,
nnd 2,i3Ii86 . Maryland, the District
of folunibla, Delaware and two counties
of Virginia $1.787.6)0 and $2,741,761 ;
Indiana $S14.207 and $410,319: Mlchl-
SH $2,025,472 and $l.s75.744 ; Missouri
nnd WfJ,t Virginia paid a total of IS.-'
,389.670. of which $3,491,423 was from
coriiorauons. 1
corporations.
WOMAN HECKLES WILSON.
i
I'rt-aidenl i
Siiltrimlsl
liiterriiit
Tnlei- In III Speech
WASHtMiTON.July 4. While President
Wilson was delivering a dedicatory uil -
dress to-day In front of the new I.abJi
Temple ho was lwlce Interrupted by a
..i. iiiu.1 m me u,-. n iihi.ui iio. 'rai
causen a stir ny iiemaneling wny inn
"e , 1 . -.ni.-iu h.iu i-..uieij c
speak when the first Interruption came,
The fpiestlnner. Miss Mabel Vernon, was
standing only a few feet from him. anl
when lie declared that In his position he
was not permitted to think of any one
class of persons she shouted :
"If you truly desire to scre all classes
why do you block the national suffrage
amendment now before Coiigrs'.' Four
million women In this country "
The White House secret servlee men
made their wav to Miss Vernon and
silenced her. She tried unsuccessfully
to Induce them to eject her from t lie
crowd. When she again sought to In
terrupt tho President city police led her
away. She wns not arrested. The Pres.
Ident apparently was undisturbed by tho
Incident,
DUBLIN'S FLAG RAISED HERE.
Sister of Plunked Hoists ol
llfncr l-iiiilileiii In Celtic Pnrk.
The spirit of reolt ih.it caused the
recent Irish tebelllon flared up again
In New York ye-etcrilay The sister
of one of the men who gae his life
In an attempt to establish tho Irish re
public raised at Celtic Park the self-same
flag that waved for seven days over
tho Post Office In Dublin during the
riots In that city.
As Miss livelyn Plunkett sister of
Joseph Plunketl, who was executed for
his part in thc uprising, pulled the rope
that sent the white, green mid gold
pleco of bullet torn cloth to the top of
tho flag pole, the band struck Into
"Ireland a Nation Once Again." Simul
taneously 6.000 loyal sons of Krln tore
down the fences In flout of the grand
stand In their eagerness to get nearer
to the emblem. The demonstration
lasted nearly an hour.
PAY UP; THIRST DOWN.
More Vim Kam. Less Von Drink,
Health Folks n.
Take It right fiom the unimpeach
able authority of the Health Depart
ment's monthly bulletin, a sure way to
vanquish the demon rum Is to get the boss
to raise your pay and cut off a few
hours of work. This may sound para
doxical, but so may some of the other
pithy points emphasized by the bulletin's
nissenniinn on inu suojtci. .in iur in
stance the following :
"The exjiendltuie for beer shows a
steady decline an wai-e-s Incre-isc,"
"It has also been discovered that the
man who workH the longest hour per
day speeds the most time n the saloon,"
"There Is no doubt that tho moving
picture show Is up to the pn-sent date
the most successful rival of the saloon,"
"Married men spend morn time In the
saloon than do single men. Twice as
many married men go to the saloon ns
do Mingle men."
Killed hy Salute on V. S. Cruiser.
PnliTl.ANli. Ore., July 4. V D. Hur
mil. coxswain of the cruiser Hostnn, was
killed and L. Hlom, ship's blacksmith,
won Injured to-day hy the premature
explosion of a six pound shell when a
salute was tired In celebatlon of lb
FourtU Ot Julj . .. .
S
SAYS VILLA IS DEAD AND BURIED.
WASHINGTON, July 4. Declaring ho has positive Information that
Villa is dead and is buried in the vicinity of Boqullla, State of
Chihuahua, Mexico, Dr. Atl, editor of Accion Mondial of Mexico city,
wired to (Jen. Cnrrunr.a to-nljrht from Washington urging that imme
diate steps be taken to find the body.
Dr. Atl arrived here to-day as a delegate to tho "peace confer
ence" of thc American Union Against Militarism. His telegram said:
My information came from two Villlstas. These two men
asserted that they were with Villa when ho died, suffering horri
bly from gangrene from a wound in his leg, nnd that they had
helped to bury him.
They declare that Villa's band went into the State of Chihua
hua, pursued by thc forces of thc Constitutionalists under Gen.
Luis Gutierrez urn! Col. Herreru. They were overtaken in the
Sierra range ncur Hoquilln. Early in the action Villa was shot in
thc leg nnd unhorsed. His followers remounted him and made off.
He ngnin fell from his horse nnd was finally put on a fresh horse
nnd held on by a follower. When he could travel no longer they
dismounted. His wound grew worse and most of his followers
left him. For eight day he suffered great agony.
Thc two men, aided by a few others, 'buried him, and crossing
thc Sierra on foot, reached Jttnrcz nnd crossed over into El Paso.
WAurci tcwt AV1DK
W fllJULi IIjI" ni UlM
1C I nnn CIMP UVMNt
A3 i,UUU DlPIU nimn
!
Pastlll1 Averts PaiUC at Mail-
hnttan Street Service
March to Safety.
-All
The patilotlc services In the big Tent
Kvangel at 26 Manhattan street, at
tendisl by more than 1,(100 people were
Interrupted hy the cry of "Fire" last
night at 8 ;30 o'clock, when the congre
gation was singing a hymn. Thc tent
' was set on tire, the police say, by a mis
chievous lKy, who threw on top of It
a Fourth or July sparkler.
ti, iiv ir v MrPhmmi. In
charge of the fervli-is. saw the tent was
ablaze a mmm'iit before the members of
the rongreg.itlon were awBre of It and
prevented a possible panic by calling on
them to pass out rahnly.
A. II. Fisher, the pastor's assistant,
climbed up the tent pole and attempted
to put out the fire with a bucket of
water, but the firemen arrived a few
minutes later and put out the blaze, the
damage being about $250. The service
was resumed after the tlrrmen departed.
At t' sj H.UHO hour another TVpt Kvangel
at 146ih street, between Oonent and
Amsterdam avenues, but which was un
occupied, was set on fire In the same
way and damaged to the extent of about
$250. It Is sometimes ued by the Sev
enth Day Adventlsts.
$40,000 FOR LOST CITY JOB.
... ...
"n. e-.....n, r-
n drnl. Melllra i.itiuntlnn.
I Through nn agn-ement made by Cor
poration Counsel Hardy and John V.
llrowne. attorney for James (!, Collins,
,he litigation started In 1901 by Collins
for reinstatement as suerintendent of
! .i..u...n .... 1.. .,..,...,.. v, u t..... ...iaA.1
th the nssurance that Collins will re
IIIKII " " i 1,1 .lll" I..." . .
corr about $40,000.
Of tills amount
foillns will get $S,500 from the tlty and
$io,000 as the value of a mortgage nn
tne lioni,. or tne late e.eorge 1, r-canncii
at 12 Hast Thirty-first street. He will
have to sue the- Scannell estute for the
rest.
Collins, who Is a plumber, was ap-
polnteil supeilnlcndent of highways In
1902 by Horougli president .iiicod ..
Cantor. When John F. Abeam was
elected Horough President in 1904 he re
moved Collins nnd appointed George F.
Kcannell to succeed him.
SPY LINCOLN SENT TO JAIL.
I'oriiier M. P., Arrrsled Here, (iete
Three Vonrn ns Fumer.
IiNnnN, July 4. A sentence of three
years penal servitude wns imposed to
day upon Ignatius Trlbleh Lincoln, the
sel'f.styled German spy who confessed
to forgery at his preliminary hearing on
that charge.
A verdict of guilty was found against
Lincoln Immediately after the Jury re
ceived the case. The summing up of the
court took less than lialf nn hour.
Lincoln, former meinm-r or Parlia
ment, was arrested in New York city
on August 4 lust and was held for ex
tradition to Kuglaud on a charge of
forgery. He asserted that he was
wanted in Hnglaud not for forgery but
because ho wns a spy.
MASSAGE REVIVES "DEAD" MAN.
Sura-eim Hubs Ml" Mnhlieil Heart
nnd Then Stitches Wound.
MlfNClE, Tnd., July 4. What Is said
to be a rare surgical operation was
performed here to-day by Dr. G. H,
Anderson on Walter Joyce, aged 25,
who wns stabbed In a light.
Joyce had been pronounced dead by
physicians. Dr. Anderson niudn an In
cision and massaged Joyce's henrt a
few times. There was soon a noticeable
pulsation. Several stitches were taken
to close a wound In the heart, rfoon
after Joyce revived uud asked for a
drink of water. His condition Is satis
factory. 8 DEAD, 190 HURT, TOLL OF DAY.
Fourth f .Inly Celebration Leas
Costly Thnn l.nut Year,
CincAfio, July I. lllglit deaths nnd
190 Injuries In Fourth of July celebra
tions throughout the country Is tho toll
of tho Pom Ih. according to figures com
piled lit midnight by the Chicago
TtlOiiMe-, Last year tneio were nine
teen persons killed and 903 Injured.
Chicago s toll was Tour Injuied, none
seriously,
BRITAIN CALLS FOR FLIERS.
Major Itnlrd In the Commons P.s-
plalns N'erd of Arrns.
Lonpon. July 4, .Major llalrd, rcprc
sentatlve of tho Aerial Committee In the
House, of Commons, said to-day the do
mand for Hying machines nt thc front Is
enormous.
Itecctillv as many as twenty -four (lew
aci'osN lo the Held of operations In one
day, lie added, In llluttratiuli of this de-
loan . . .
riPC toe Ann 4 vrio
.JMidU fitttlpVUV ft luntl
FfiQ SINPi E TAY TDIAI i
run MPHjLL lAA IKIAL
.. ,
JITS. Joseph 1-ClS Starts FUlldi
for Jew ish Colony in
Palestine.
I'lin.Aiiti.i'iii, July I
Resolutions ,
approving the plan of self-tiixatlon of
iunlsts throughout the I'nlted States to
ccate an emergency fund to further the
work of the Zionists in Palestine and
thanking the State Department for Its
cooperation in relieving sulTering Jews
abroad featured th session here to-day ,
ot the Federation of American Zionists.
The convention took official recognition
or the services of Henry W. Morgen-
v. uiiuivi ui iicnrj . .norgen-
tbau. former United States Ambassador
to Constantinople ; Dr. l.lazebrook, Con-sul-dcneral
at Jerusalem ; Consular
Agent Hardlg at Jaffa and Arthur Car
rels. Consul at Alexandria, for their
work In aiding tho Jews.
It was announced at the afternoon se-
sion that Mrs. Joseph Fels of this city covered In the city yesterday and twenty- ,ne (jerniens ha'ye chosen to imil.e to.fo'' till: stiltouie'llt that art II lory prep-
Jin "un.i! fh""'le V col,".; lnJ,a,,:i flve d'V'18 wero "P0'1- Tn"e al9 Gen. llrusllo'ff's adyanco on both flanks arutli)It will preccilu nil further In
line under the auspices of the Zionist were thirty-one suspected cases concern- u 1... ILttmnts to break throuch the ' ' ,. ....
Commonwealth. The exact amount Ins which no decision rould be reached. l,,!, through tne ,uutry aUliek,, n the reollleefulne'ss,
given by Mrs. Kels wns not stated, but, while omethlng like 245 cases In nr..Tne Hus-sU-v-" says the 'oil's Petro- (leleriultiatl'ill lllnl lighting illalltles
fund would amount m nZT t'nonhl 1 w"" Zf?'Ja he, hetnlih "u,'1"r,l,,",s grail corrcs,onde'.,t. "have .evlved me.h-,f Hie lieriliaiH, as well n- the power
runn would amount to about $25,000 a from the flve borouchs for exam nation. ..... ... , ., 1.. . ... .. . ,
year.
II. A. Rosenblatt. Svlvan ftoblson nnd
Mlehnei Sniin nil nf v... v..,i..
. - - I m ine new cases were inuno, as wen a
named as a comm Itee. tn confer w lh', ... .x.- ... .. , 1...1 .,.i
. . r, , 1 . 1 ------
..'u.n , i,i.iiiiii-i?, iii.iKii hi y im-ni- 1
dent, regarding the details In connection
"nn ..,- t-?l, uiir.inir ill ,,i xne eiiiunj, vuw
principal object of whle-h will be to en-
courago ngrnrlan pursuits,
The secretary's report showed that
pledges aggregating $163,000 had been
received from all patts of the country
for the emergency fund.
GREAT SCARCITY OF LABOR.
Mirny More .lobs Than Applicants,
Snys State I'.mploy mr ill Ilnrraa.
There Is a scarcity of skilled and un
skilled labor In New York, ltlchard A.
FHnn of the State Public F.mplnyment
Dure, iti, llrooklyn, made that clear yes-
..M.l ... I.. 1.1. ........ ... l.n t?....A f..
ciu.i, ill li a r.ji, i iw ui- ,ii -
.,.... i...i. in.. ,
IIUI-lll.,1 .111111117..-., till. 111. MUM. 11.
t.ilned Jobs for 1,373 persons In June,
The bureau could have placed many more
persons.
There Is a shortage of skilled mechan
ics, laborers for heavy work, male
stenographers, office clerks and book
keepers, kitchen help for country hotels
and for graduates of high schools. It
seems that practically all the high school
graduates quickly obtained positions this
summer.
' LADY SYBIL GREY WOUNDED.
Struck hy (irennile Splinter Wttri
With Red Cross.
London, July 4. Lady Sybil Grey,
daughter of Uarl Grey, formerly Governor-General
of Canada, was severely
but not dangerously wounded when with
tho Hrltish Hcd Cross at the Russian
front, says a Heuter despatch from
petrograd.
During hand grenade practice a
grenade was thrown through a window
shelter near which she was elttlng and
a splinter penetrated her left cheek and
Jaw, Ijidy Sybil was very popular In
Ottawa during her fathei's tenure of
otllce nnd made frequent visits to New
York,
ONE REGIMENT FEARED RAIN.
Kunstnn lleporls That It llefnsed
to I. rave Its Train.
A telegram reached Governors Island
yesterday from Major-Gen. Frederick
Funston leportlng that a National
Guard infantry regiment had refused to
leave Its train when It reached a town
"somewhere on the border" because It
was raining cats and dogs.
If the telegram Identified the regiment
the officers on Governors Island wouldn't
tell, except that It was from the De
partment of the F.ast, They did not
doubt that means had been found to
persuade, the regiment to obey order,
even nt the cost or a weiung.
STR0MB0LI IN ERUPTION.
Tuabnal Are Unshed to Snve the
Inhabitants Near Hy.
Messina. Sicily, July 4. The volcano
stromlioll has been tn eruption since last
night. Tugboats are being rushed 'o
the neighborhood to save the Inhabitants,
eStrombnll Is on one of the Llparl
Islands, off the north coast or Sicily
The volcano has been active for the
larger part of 2,000 years. It was In
violent eruption last November, but sub
sided without causing loss of life.
f n,HOO K.xpres for Trnelnra.
Stockton, ChI., July 4. Three rater,
pillar tractors which wero manufa-tured
here for the American army aro being
rushed to-day hy express to the border,
The expressnge on the three nmctilues
will amount to $3,600, They were orated
and shipped In a special car attached
to ft puMnf W ffftMi
PRESS
60,000 CHILDREN
FLEEING EPIDEMIC I
Spread of. Infantile Paralysis
Responsible for Greatest
Exodus City Has Known.
25 DIE, 50 NEW CASES !
Five Hundred Roys in CnnipjAlso (lain at ltiminovichi
nt Fort Hamilton Put Fn- ' Germans Report a Five
tier Quarantine. I Mile Advance.
The Hoard of Health announced yes-
terday that more than 60,000 children of
all aces have been sent from the city
by their parents In the past six clays to
cscapc the Infantile paralyiis epidemic
and that thousands more will follow,
The exodus began even before the clos-
iiik ui too puuiic scnuuis last rnuay.
Health Commissioner Emerson does
not believe the scattering of the children ,
will spreadthe epidemic or that there Is
any particular danger unless they are
taken to other congested centres. Ues-
patches from Chicago say the health
authorltiea there already are on the
lookout and all New York trains are
, to do met by pl.yslclans wko will in-
an wko will in-
question parents
a thev mm, 11
0 thc eame. II-
spect children and
about tlia place whence
llnols health oirlcers say sceral eases
of Infantile paraljsls have been
ills
4vt're" there.
. ,Z " '
primary e,choo!s for children under 6
years. Dr. Kmerson admitted last night
that some of his experts are in favor
of this, but he Is Inclined to believe
that with an adequate Inspection sys
tem and plenty of nurses the children
can be watched more closely in the
. , . , "
... 1, aK . '
I will take this matter up again to-
morrow," the Commissioner said last
nigh,
Tneal)-lte Death In Day.
Fiftv-nlne new tru- cases were ills-
Twenty-four of the deaths of yestei-
sL ,V Tii "n r',,l.ht
'".' """ . .. . . ' .. ...
u. tt(e ru'rtin, vue iiuiiuiru .,..
nlnetvo
trough
lrough yesterday, of wiil-h thirty-nine
were
..VI,' llllu lllirt'll miurii-iiuiti.n. ,..
remainder were duplicates or cases where' ' "" " '"- i-" -- "t selle the ileptn in tne lerrnnrv ia
parent, had taken 11 children away from mlvanco lias '"'n o s.m ;'ylr' ' lucea-es In ward the Suiiiliie. until at
home. This latter feature will be Investl- j charging upon positions which "" '- " . , 1m, ..,,.
gated further to-day. tdlery had prepared for an attack. 'I he .Mmitailban II mea-llie- iiimiiii in
There was one death In Manhattan and ;-.valry charges Immediately after the , m)t.. n further iin-lea-e mi the
flvo new cae and fifteen suspected i Infantry, .sc-aslonally without Infantry " f.()t ((. M(, i.-,.,,,, .f,)n. p,.-,,ini,.
cases were reported. There were no new I .... i..,..,,,,,!, lir,.. ,i,,r,.i,,llii'- Verdun
cases or deaths In The Ilronx. nnd but' Geriiinii Clnlui t.iiln.. I He lleliell nrill.y i ofm ln
one suspicious case There were no, Tl, c-.erman olllelal statement w-wA I eimageil III partlciilavly heavy lii.ii'
deaths, no nei- cases and no suspicious (.,ay claims that the liusslans were 'jug, the Germans lint having pi-llllittei
cases reported from Queens. There were , forced back mole than fle miles on u . . .,, f .i. , sniiiine tu Interfere
no deaths In Hlchmond. but six new cases u,, mlle front southeast of Tiumach. ,"l,,u 1,1 u" f,",,J" "' """"
were turned In. twenty-seven miles north of Kolome.i 1 w till their nlK-nitlitlls fur the eapllire
There are now 243 patients in the Jnnd twenty-tlirce miles southeast "finf Hi,. yi-f;it fiirtre' I III the Verilll'
Kingston Avenue nospuai, mooaiyii,
and fifty-seven at the Wlllard Parker.
. L . . . V A' 1. .nn,,i..lnn
. . . . i . ......
I Manhattan. Thc New York Contagion
! : .. , ,,-. f
Hospital In Jamaica wi'
the Queens cases July 8.
Roys' Cnmp Qunrnntlnrd.
After a conference yesterday by an aid
of Major-den. Wood, Col. Samuel K. Al
len, commandant at Fort Hamilton-, a
representative of the Health Depart
ment, and Frederick L. Long, secretnry
of the National School Camp Associa
tion. It wns decided to quarantine the
500 boys now In camp at Fort Hamilton
until the camp ends, July 3t. I'nder
the new orders no boy will be permitted
to return u lie oreaiis ooiuius, uu ihu.-iu.
brothers or sisters, friends or any other
Kind OI Visitors will UI- llliuweu u. t-iuri
the camp nnd eve-n supplies wilt pass
through a system of Inspection. All the
boys were examined by medical inspec
tors yesterday and found to be in per
fect health.
Health Commissioner Hmerson began
yesterday to enlist the aid of ex cry land
lord, real estate agent, building superin
tendent and Janitor In the city. Tim
Commissioner desires all these men to
know that their active, hearty coopera
tion at this time will go a long way
toward relieving tho situation
Thext must see. to It thnt all sanitary-
rind tenement laws are rigidly enforced,
They must report every cae of Infantile
paralysis on their premises, iney must
help In educating the parents of victims
in the fact tnat tin- nospitai is tne nest
place for n suffering child,
Thnroaab Disinfection .Vccessnry.
Dr. Kmerson explained how this will
benefit the properly owners and agents.
Wherever a case is now round the front
door of the building Is Immediately
placarded. The placards remain for
eight weeks or longer ir tne pniieut re
mains at home. If the child goes to a
hospital the placard is removed as soon
as the apartment in which the child
was 111 has been renovated, This menus
scrubbing tho floors with a solution of
snl soda, repainting and revarnlshlng
the woodwork nnd repaperlng the walls.
Notice went forth to all hospitals of
the city yesterday that they are not
to turn away any child suffering from
the, disease, but must iromptly iso
late It and notlfv the Department of
Health, which will promptly send a
diagnostician and an ambulance. This
order was brought about bv an in
cident In Queens whereby a child was
carried through the streets and In the
trolley cars of Long Island City on
two occasions because n hospital head
feared the patient might Infect other
children In the Institution.
While the routine departments of the
Health Department wero not open yes.
terdny, Commissioner Kmerson and
every aid employed In the light went
to work nt S o'clock In the morning and
while the Cnmmlsloner knocked on' nt
10 o'clock last night, some of his men
do not know when they will get liny
rest, Hy 8:30 A, M, the Commissioner,
Dr. Hertram Waters, lie.id of the lluretui
nf Preventable Diseases; Dr Simon P
Hlattels, In charge of the lliooklyn
Held forces, and Dr Louis C Ager,
t-lilld speclallsl. weio down In
. i .-
, .. CoiXiaiied oa iUth Pa-
ONE CENT
RUSSIAN PATROLS
CROSS CARPATHIANS
Invaders Make Way Into Hun-
gary llrusiloff Nenrlnjr
l.cinbcKr.
PRESS P.EVOND KOI.O.MKA
Lon'pon. July nu.lan rav.ilry
patrols have advanced from Kimpolting.
In southern liul.owlna, over the passes
of the Carpathians Into Hungary, nc-
cording to a wireless despatch received
hero from Mucharesl.
The patrols made their way over the
passes iiom jiuKuwina .inu uu-n
Iltinirnrv nn Turaday. It Is said. The
raiders -blew up bulUlngs containing
stores of foinl and munition,, and cut
telegraph wire'. A seniatlon ban been
eieated In HudapeM. tln capital of Hun-.
vary, by the news that the Invaders are !
c ' V"" -', " ' ..!
,,. ..,.r ..unborn lighting and the
enemy lied through the Ml age or 'ot K 1
'"l!
Teharny, leaving In tne nanus 01 in
Hu..aiiM several hundred prisoners, and
cjnMOn wero uken uurlnK Mf ntrht-
ing
llriisllorr .Neurs l.e 111 li. ru. ,
. . . . - 1
Ai ordlng to special ilesp itclies iroin .
liSs lXnXnr,ut Ws Mill soln, .... fiiri,.,..
desperate- resistance of the Austro-der- , i,, ti,. ltritl-li sectors of the Mil
mans. Indicates that In a few- days his I .
front will assume the form of a regular ol.ly slight procros litis beui made,
aie c. ntred on Imheig. The s.ml- i -nofrt.j 1 ilesiiatchet mi.v that tile on
lerinaneiit fortifications of the Austro- 1 1
C-rmans. these despatches say, hao now . tee Hrlti-ll front nf lllliely miles Is
'' capiureu anu oeMlIu..e
lru"1- , I
elcn. i'.nislloirs front exceeds 300 ,
miles In length, and his left wing Is at :
present about twenty miles from the
(Jaltclan capital. The progress in light-1
,..'. ,.. .1... un,..,ua ..-i.i..i.
- . . . . . . . , ,
4'i-tedly llitro.iuci.ig cavalry ami senu-,
. ing them ugiilnst enemy trendies with
, ,.,., ,,,,. r.,v,,ltM .ei,.. i(,,.ui.,,, 1..
'l - atisf.ictory results. lllil HUSSlatls ll
itlsf.ictory results. Tim Hussians have
J es -n no w k when ch-u k
. . . .... .. ,
i iiuczacz. .o ineuiion m iikihuik hi
I this reulon Is inadu
1 n.,l,,n
111 I I,. ICIISNliltl
communication.
III the central portion id the It.usst.in
line, the seine of the becund Itusslan nil-
vance. two lines of the enemy w.-rJ
pierced by Russian attacks northeast
of H.iranovichl and the battle Is still
ramim. in.- .i-iun- ... .... .,. ....... ... . . ....
2,700 men, besides 11 cannon. In this ! 'lays pa-t, thnuauil; uf men have tal
legion, is announced. Russian aero-1 1,,. This N a position which l e-,
!;!;v"chl"Itaon.,1'P,'l, c"""'s"n ""' ""''jsential to the German, fur can-tin
Iocnl counter attacks ng.iluM the Itus-, thi-lr iiihance nearer tu Verdun ite!f
slans In this sector "yielded results," j ,) ,,, ,. -eii.ii tu Keep their re
according tu tin- German cotnniunien.
lion During the tlglitln-- thirl i Itus. sMnliro nilai t.
si.in olllci-is and l,:8.'t men were e-ai- ltuliiiis ami Italians ale londim:
,,,., t t,.rt ..
U..J', ,(lt"res7 ilgl'i
Iltlllg luliUIHle" to'
Volhynln. In the legion b-tween
the styr and the Stokluul. An attempt I liui-harcM reports a Mglilllcant niuw'
wns made by the Austro-Germau forces .. .,r usan u,,., ,,ie
to cross the HtyT, near the village of
Lli.i. hut the effort broke down under
tln- Russ'an lire and eleven ofliiers ai d
neatly a thousand men were taken by
tlio liusslans. uiree i.eimin auacKs
uu Hie rlcht bank of the Dniester wei.i
o thrown hack.
In the region lietween Lake N.irotche
inrX"tu1,t,!.r,,nrr,C.ent
Kuropatkln look the offensive against
the army if ilea, mui Ilinileiibuig after
a heavy nonin.it'iinn tn. nut wete driven
hack with hc.uy losses, the German War
entice announced.
SEEGER TN ALLIED DRIVE.
Hnrtnril Man Ordered In .loin First
Freni-h Attack.
H'nial Calilr Urtialfh lo Tin. Ms
Perns, July 4 Alan Se-eger. i n-
wiutig Marvaid man and Hvs cone
spondciit wlio Is lighting with the l-'rem li
ailliy. writes under date of June 2S :
"We go up to the attack to-morro'i .
This will probably be the. biggest thing
ycl We have the honor of marching in
ine nisi u.-. ..in. I,., i i,i , i j-, it. i.e. imu
Willi i.i.-mj ...... ... .-. ui,,, n" "., i
n,l hninnda I f, In ..hi.l ,,. 1...
..i ........ i. i.,u i i...
the nrst wave. If you arc in tills thing mans li.iv- bioiiKlit up strong rcviifurre
at all ll Is best to be In It to Hie lltni;, I nieuis fiom other pails of their line and
"":l..,,,l,lM "M'T, "''em'' experience." ' , M,,ull m) .nntestlng exeiy yard of
William Motley Hailier. a member of , .,.
the American Ambulance, who wis1"1" '"' '"1' lorrentlal i.Uuj
wounded nt the front June 29, has bee.i , to-day liauipeied Hie oflensivo -r.i t In im
nwanled the military medal
He Is now
out of danger.
HONOR AMERICANS AT FRONT.
French Grant Four lb of .Inly I, en ti
ll. Soldiers.
Special Cnlile Orrxitcl' In Tin M i
I'.miis, July I. The Ficticli Mlni-iiy
of War granted forts .eight hoiir- leave
, tn all Americans under the culms in
honor of July 4, except those engaged on
i the somme front.
The conespondonts of the chief Nc.c
York papers petitioned the .Mlnlsi v of
War. asking that tlii fax or he gt.umil
j tin- Americans In the Fiend! nun as
was done on July I of last year
Ibnlle Iloiilioux has written i ' "
n oi cci item uf V , tor Cut t
tint, inciic.in nviatot i' ho wis km i re
icciitly nt Verdun. Ho calls Imu "th
I nranx. lion ot ,. . r-. -
1 llewlirrf,
, TWO tKNTS.
'GERMANS HALT
BRITISH; FRENCH
KEEP DP DRIVE
i
j Stubborn Teuton l.eMst
iiiicc Stays Advance
in Xortli.
TJ1 JSKIO MOKK TOWNS IN
I SOMMK REGION TAKEN
Estr'ees. Harleux and lel-loy-en-Santerre
Full
to French.
I KISS LX PATROLS
,
MMl J N 111 .MiAUl
,('l,ns I '! l'llltll i'HK KlUM
v 1 1 l',u 11 1,1,1
Bukowina Italian
Forging Ahead.
The Trench troops cool e ratlin;
with Hie llrllWi In th Somme Ithcr
riu'li.n. have straightened their line
. . . ,.. f I!,ir!oil.
I,y the cnplllto of liarloi.N.
lit.1,v.,Mi.Snn-Ti'rre :ml IMrPfS iiimI
'' ,
lie nilvjilK'llig "II :i consKicrani.N hut
front li.Willd IVlollllc. At 1Mb V,
. . . . . I u..
note .UU priMilll-rs were iai. iu-
",,, s. f j,,,,.,. f thp imtt!u,
. , ., ., . .v
)Ut jt v imvanl tile imth that th
1 lli'iix iet limiting i uimvi ;i
. i.rllU1. ..rft.r Is niltllorit.V
,111 ineir ili-ie-in ,"., ait.' ,,-n ..Mt.... -..
The .situation at the end of the
. fnurtll iluy with reminl l'i the ltlillll
U' llie as the tenlllK nf .HU 1
- . . ...... ,. ,
, . . ,. i-,,,.,.m- i , .-, . t ., . . i (lie
Tlllallliioilt "oil; fur I lie t'lilirth time
,-,,.,. t --1-1 lie- Imnibnrilllieilt ami I J
... . , .. i i
I ll llias.e.l nttacls. Arnllliil tills wnrl,
which lins been the centre nf ilepenite
' ,.,. ,, ,.,,.,. ttaeks fur man"
,il, th. de wl r.ui'.'l li In ll,.. i.uliililiii.i!
...... ... ,
1 '" aimniM tin- eeuirai rimer ami
' 1,1 lmu "'IwiiiiihI frum Miup..-
llll.g. ill tile lltiKow Ilia, ami enleieil
Huii-arliin tenilm v . All allium tin
Russian front eiiu'iigeuieiit- nf Hie se-
' verest cliaracter are In piugies- uiol
1 1 1 Itllssltllis, (IrlvlllS llurtll lluin
' ' " ,
tueitty tulles anil ilie threatening t
,,nt HiiiiK Hell, vuu llutliiuel-'n tinny
tun. i In Aiisiiii-Geniian furies in 1 1 n
Ttt ri n 1 1 , 1 1 reulnn. Shutilil tills Itu
slall lliut einetlt pl'ute sin-cessfnl uu
1 te t 1 1 itii-r may liaie u tall bai-U un
l.etnliei
a nous i war oxly hy
srumic :x fkuitisg
j tiri-iniiii. Iriiiialy lli-i-nfort-eil,
Ciiilesl P.t.-i-y til Mi nee.
, , .
LuM'ns. July 4 -iho two in-iiish oltl.
, cl.il despatches Issued to. day iccord
... ., ..hail u tlio h tu.it on uu t he
fr,.n,
., 1 Urllts 11 irillll.
They show that tho Ger-
nnd the Utiusli a, tlon was conlliicil
uio'-ilv to , wiisulldallng the giuund .I
le.tily won
In lircator New Inrle.
Jersey (il anil Newark.
Tne Fiench have captured tun inuiv
tillages and ale uu good roads t,i I1, i.
inn, 'nil then- W yet nu duct care :.
the viiilcn,!' of tho German atliicl.h in
the Verdun region
Desp ilches from German wai -or
ic-pondeiits Indicate tho rcillxallnu hat
tlie central I'oweis aro losing the lint,
nine, which their favorable position on
tin Intel mr Hues enabled tlinni -u hold
tin oughoiit the long iiiiirs,! of the war
.Morcovci. In cuiiimcutiti-; no the cuur
minis rcuuri es in munitions ,u,( .,!
tnalci'.il the llntriite Allies have liceti
able ii pll- up through mc, wearying
liiiintiis uf piep.irallon, they equally lei
oil '.' that a profound chance has oc
i ui r-1 ii Hie relations of 'he belli jcn-uts
T ' ,id pi .'sslll e of the Fiance
I . ,, , ,.i ..Hi, eiltit i t.lli.h li. I, , .rli.l
I along the entile Hue of tipi-ratlnus, e.
