ARIZONA REPUBLICAN'
TH
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAB
10 PAGES
TipiZONA, WEDNESDAY MORN1NC!, JULY 5, 1916
10 ' PAGES
VOL. XXVII, NO. 48
THE RED
CALLS TODAY. WILL YOU HEED THE" SUMMONS
THE Red Cross today confronts the great emergency. Its emergency is the nation's crisis. It confronts it with a record at home and under alien skies that make up
a noble epic. . It confronts it with an appeal that convinces heart and mind-with a call to help that should be quickly answered by those who love their country who
love humanity itself . ' " ISIs, f.
Today, after having served the world, the American National Red Cross asks to serve America.' War or no war, there is great need for service. The dependents of
those who have gone and will go to the front present a problem. Already there is anxiety and want. Already it hears the summons and ask the people to hear it, too.
The Red Cross lifts today in Phoenix and in Arizona the banner that must never know defeat. It is the banner of humanity itself. It is the standard of our nob
ler, better selves. It is the flag that summons the hosts of generous impulses that somehow failed of action to take the uniform of deeds. It streams afar, that banner.
Sign the application for membership blank today and become a worker. There is a big work at the front and there is a big work- right here at home. The Red Cross
Calls today.
Y IS READY
FOR BE
wro v a v
ii n ii n ii ii ii ii in ii
jllm ii ii viyni ji
iUJl V Hi
4?
7
Entente Allies' Advance Against
Germans In West Is Unchecked
FRENCH, CO-OPERATING MR HEAVY INS
BRITISH STRAIGHTEN LINES HUG'
" IN SDHIME RiVER REGION BIG 'OFFENSIVE
HEAVY FORGES
MEXICAN MEDICAL MEN
TO ENTER WAR SERVICE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
fiRE REPULSED
Republican AP. Leased Wire
The French troops, co-operating with the British in the Somme river re
gion, have straightened their line somewhat by the capture of Barleux, Bel-loy-en-Santerre
and Estrees, and are advancing on a considerably wider front
toward Peronne. At Estrees, where 50 0 prisoners were taken, the fighting is
still going on furiously.
On the British end of the line, only slight progress has been made at some
points. Unofficial dispatches say that the entire British front of 90 miles is
bearing its full share of the battle", but is toward the south that the heaviest
fighting is under way.
A high British officer is authority for the statement that artillery prepa
rations will precede all further infantry attacks, as the resourcefulness, de
termination and fighting qualities of the Germans, as well as the purpose of
their defenses, are well recognized.
Although the French are making a steady advance in the Somme sector,
without apparently heavy casualties, and now face an easier task, according to
expert opinion, to reach their objective, the river itself, the Verdun army is
engaged in particularly heavy fighting, the Germans not having permitted
the battle of the Somme to interfere .w ith their operations for the capture of
the great fortress. On the Verdun front, the Germans have taken the Thiau
mont work for the fourth time, after a t errific bombardment and by a massed
attack. Around this work, which has been the center of desperate attacks and
counter attacks for many days past, thousands of men have fallen, for this
is a position which is essential to the Germans for carrying their advance
nearer to Verdun itself, and to the Frenijh to keep their resistance intact.
Russians and Italians are lending all their strength to the combined blow
against the central powers, and Bucharest reports a significant movement of
Russian patrols, who are said to have advanced from Kimpolung, in Buko
wina, and entered Hungarian territory. All along the Russian front engage
ments of the severest character are in progress and the Russians, driving
north from Kolomea, have advanced more than twenty miles and are threaten
ing to outflank General Von Hothmer's army and the Austro-German forces
in the Tarnooole region. Should this R ussian movement prove successful, Von j
nolhmer may have to Tall back on Le moerg.
The Russians report the capture of many guns and more than 3.000 pris
oners. Though the official communications with resoect to the battles along the
Austro-Italian front give only a meagre idea of the situation as a whole, that
issued by the Italian war office indicates that the artillery and infaitry fight
ing is of a continuous and desperate nature. The Austrian v. ar office is silent
regarding the operations against the Italians.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire BERLIN. July 4, (Via London!
l.OXDoX. July .4 The two British Heavy forces have Ween thrown into
official dispatches issued todav allied attacks on the German lines both
corded little change in the situation "'"lh iln) 'uth "f tllp Sommp at"
on the British front. Tl.ev show that ,t'n,"t! .to ' vane, the war ..ff.ee an-
j the Hermans haw brought up strong
reinforcements from other l arts iff
i their line and are stubbornly con
testing every yard of the British ad
vance. Torrential rains today, however,
hampered the offensive operations
and the British action was confined
mostly to consolidation the ground
already won. The Krench have cap
tured two more villages and are on
good roads to Peronne. Hut there in
nounced today, but all the assaults
were repused, with heavy losses;
I The official statement says:
j "While the enemy did not repeat
I his attacks north of the Ancle brook,
'lie brought forward from Mametz
i forces between the Ancre and the
Volume against the front from Thie-
pule to Labasselle.
j "South of the Somme he lirotight
'strong forces against the Une from
; Bra leu x to I'.ooliey.
His losses under our artillery and
infantry fire corresponded to the great
vet no decrease in (lie violence of
ine ..ermati attach in u.e number of men employed.
region. "The attacks were repulsed every-
Dispalehes from German war cor- where,
respondents, ' indi' ate the realization. "Bitter fighting took place for pos
that the central powers are losing the' session of HardecourL north of the
MEXICO CITY. July 4. A ca'l was sent out toHay by the federal
board of health for a meeting of medical men fo- the purpose of form
ing a corps ee serve in the event of a foreign war. Volunteers under 50
years o'd are called for. and it is planned to form those who serve into
three groups in accordance with their age and previous experience. The
younger men ate to serve in the emergency hospitals, while the other mer
vitl serve in hospitals in headquarters and in towns. A-
Supplementing this call, is one for women, who are to receive emer
nency training for field services as nu-ses, and the further oroposition i
made of establishing some medical factories to offset the danger of having
sunp'ies usually furnished from the outside, cut off.
Offers have reached the army headquarters from several sections,
proposing the formation of "brigades of Amazons," it being said that
women to the nurrhe- of many thousand desire to serve in the event of
war, and ask that they be trained in the manipulation of the rifle.
LATEST NOTE
UiMEXPECTEOLY
CONCILIATORY
WATCH BORDER
FOR. SIGNS OE
FOORTH FUSSES
initiative which their favorable
i'O-
Somme. The French troops which pen-
1 Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SAX AXTOXIA. July 4 While Gen
eral Funston aid his staff were work
ing out the details of placing all the
troops, both regular and gaurdsmen, on
a tactical basis today, a close scrutiny
of movements across the international
line was kept by border commanders.
It was feared that the celebration of
Independence day in border towns
might give rise to some incident capa-
suions on the interior lines enabled crated our positions there were thrown ble of growing into a clash with Mexi
cans, but reports from all quarters in
dicated comparative quiet.
Some excitement was caused here
during the Fourth of July parade, when
entente allies have been able to pile- "on the east bank of the Meuse. Jesus Alamanso, a Mexican, was over-
i'l Xltroiin the wearing months of fierce attacks against the hill bat- powered by the crowd. Alamanso made
preparations, they equally realize that teries of Iiamloup were easily repulsed. an insulting gesture when tha sec-
them to hold throughout the Ions out again.
course of the war. Moreover, in com-1 ".Northwest of Ypres, west of La
menting on the enormous resources Bassee and southwest of Lens, local
ill munitions anil war material, the enemy advances were repulsed.
profound change has occurred in
00IETF0ORTH
FOR TROOPS QN
ARIZONA LINE
Repeated official French reports ; turn of the parade headed by the act
the reintioiiK ..f tlie belligerents. regarding the recapture of the Thua-i ng mayor passea. some onecnea mat'
... , .t. , .... ; '.. Tf.v.i.,n t..,..n.l K In.," men mmiA Ihoif fire, int., (nun
with th.. i.nenint' III mill I WOTKS anu me l-iamiouil oaLierv '"imii n,u mr iicis, ,1111.1 - ...vw
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
mH'GLAS, Ariz., July 4. Each
unit of the New Jersey militia was
represented today at the new army
camp northwest of town, with the
arrival of a squadron of cavalry and
the signal corps. The field hospital,
ambulance company, artillery and in
fantry took their places in camp Sun
day and Monday.
Militiamen and regular soldiers, so
far as possible, were given a day off
duty. Patriotic exercises were con
ducted at the quarters of the regulars
just north of the international boun
dary to the east of Douglas. Con
certs by regimental bands drew large
crowds at the city park during the
afrernoon and evening.
Many of the Xew Jersey guards-
Simullaneou
Russians Enter Hungary
LOXLOX, July 5. Russian cavalry
patrols have crossed the Carpathians
and entered Hungary, according to a
wireless dispatch received here from
Bucharest.
The dispatch says that the patrols
advanced from Kimpolung and entered
Hungarian territory on Tuesday. They
cut telegraph wires and blew up build
ings in which food and munitions were
stored.
tiess and high spirits and their supreme
confidence that the tide of battle has
turned. Some tell thrilling stories.
One well-known commanding officer of
a battalion, wiio was landed at South
ampton .with a hole through one hand
and an ugly shrapnel wound in the leg
which he received in Saturday's fight
ing, said:
"Our fellows reached their objective.
They would have got there if hell itself
had had to be crossed. Xo soldiers
the Anglo-French offensive the Rus-'are fables; also the information as to ; only the arrival of police saved Ala-j today. They inspected Agitu Prieta,
sian armies are again attacking on j the numbers of prisoners taken during ' manso from injury. He was taken to the Mexican town, from across the
u.ij., i,tv, f their front An 'the events on the Somme. ponce neaaquarters ana later released, uonier. usienea attentively to me
I "East and southeast of Armen- The big movement of guardsmen to- 1 stories of residents who had wit-
ward the border continued unabated ; nesscd some of the Mexican battles
It is added that the news that in- could have been finer than our men.
the
eiitirelv new offensive has been oii-
o,.h in., Ptinr. Leonold's Ha-'tieres, German patrols broke into
varian forces in the region of Baran- , British reconnoitening detachment, and ; today. One of Maine's regiments of jbelow the bonier and inspected the
jn(, Russians have "ear c.mm ecive. w est oi .titieiitaorn ( v. Uu.. ... v v.. . v , rmnui.,.
wo ; (upper Alsace) in r reni n positions, i i"'n in uic xaieuo uismci aim more j ne ona, or -Mexican water cooler.
fine officer and sUty men were made . Missouri troops reacnea jareao, pass- was much in demand by the militia-
here. 1 '"S through here. The heavy Xew men. Their eamp is well supplied
.Nine enemy aviators were brought York movement to the Brownsville dis- ! with drinking water, but' ice is at a
j tnct was continued, the First squad- : premium.
any losses to ourselves and four by , run of cavalry and the Second battalion I Quiet prevailed along this portion
anti-aircraft guns. Six machines put , f artillery from that state going : f the Mexican border.
ovichi, where
pierced the Cerman lines at iv
places: while the Italians are main
taining strong pressure along their j l"'"ners
- .. . ; r. .... i
' ..' . ... ,i.i down, five in aerial battles without j trict was continued, the First squad
i lie Diiimii ii-.- " .-!., i . - (
that these events prove that the mo- i
merit of the great "squeeze has at
last arrived, and not since the war
began, have hopes run so high. Nev
ertheless, almost every British cor
respondent on the western front
warns against being over-sanguine.
out of action are in our hands.''
EIGHT DEATHS FROM "FOURTH"
vaders are again on Hungarian soil i The German machine guns wcTe sweep
l . - . r ...I, U .... anH rlu ; ft.i t urn tea lhat the IlCOgrCSS
inat portion in uie iiooi nim mi .... - . ...
caused a deep impression in Budapest.
The Germans last night recaptured a
small part of La Boisselle, which was
taken by the British in the new offen
sive north of the Somme. Further to
the south, an official announcement
says, the British made some progress,
capturing a wood. They took prisoners
und war material.
A lale bulletin from the war office
says:
"Heavy thunderstorms and torrential
rains interfered somewhat with offen
sive operations. The situation south
of the Ancre is generally unchanged.
"Operations during the day consisted
chiefly of minor local-enterprises with
a view to retaining the ground gained.
The total number of prisoners exceeds
6,000."
Convoys of wounded continue to ar-
i ... . . i.
absolute hail of lead, but our only must necessarily be slow anumtun-
(Continued on Page Two)
(Continued on Page Ten)
TEUTOM FORCES SCORE ONE
AGAIiTJUSSiS IN CALICIA
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
BERLIN, July 4 (via London). A
notable victory for the Teutonic forces
in Galicia 'Was announced by the war
office today. Southeast of Tlumach,
rive at different ports, where every- j by a speedy thrust, the Russians were
body comments upon their cheerful- forced back on a front of more than
Rain and Chain Lightning
Do Not Stop Bombardment
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
I'RIOSS CAMP IN KRANOK. July 4
(evening via London, July 5.) When
flashes of chain lightning shot out of
the heavy clouds, which burst in tor
rents of rain over the battlefield, the
British and Germans did not interrupt
their shelling of I Jt Boisselle, which for
eight days has been the object of an
unceasing bombardment, the German
shells breaking in La Boisselle on the
bridge and the British shells'1 on the
Germans' side.
There has been a lull in the battle
at other points except Montauban, al
though the general British bombard
ment continued.
12'4 miles to a depth of more than !',;
miles.
The statement regarding the eastern
front says:
Army group of Field Marshal Von
Hindenburg: Following their frequent
ly increased artillery activity, the Rus
sians in the evening and during the
night attacked repeatedly several points
between Lake Narocz and Smorgon una.
east of W'isczniew. They attacked w ith
considerable forces on both sides of
Smorgon, without achieving any ad
vantages, but incurring luj'avy losses.
Army group of Prince Leopold: Local
counter attacks at points where the
Russians- first succeeded in making
some advances all yielded results, and
we captured 13 officers and 1,X0S men.
Army group of 'Gen. Von Linsingen:
The Russians yesterday again threw
strong forces, part of them recently
brought up to this front, in masses
against us to stay our advance, but
were repulsed. Our attack gained fur
ther ground.
Army group of Gen. Count Von Both
mer: Southeast of Tluniach our troops
in a quick advance forced back the
Russians more than 12 Vi wide and more
than 5U miles deep. ,
Tlumach is 27 miles north of Kolo-
Repubiican A. P. Leased Wire
CHICAGO. July 4. F.ight deaths
anil 110 injuries from Fourth of July
celebrations throughout the country is
the toll of the Fourth, according to
figures compiled at midnight by the
Chicago Tribune. Last year there were
lit persons killed and 903 injuries. For
the last 17 years the Tribune has com
piled statistics on Fourth of July cas
ualties and comparison made with this
year's figures indicate the "sane
Fourth" propaganda has reduced fa
talities almost to a minimum. Fire
losses due to Fourth of July celebra
tions this year, according to the same
source, were almost negligible. San
Francisco had the greatest number of
fires, 13 in all.
through here, today. When all the
troops are stationed, New York will
have a representation on the border of
about 22,000. A regiment of Maryland
infantry moved through here late to-
Celebrate Fourth Quietly
XOGALES. Ariz., July 4. While
-.0M Connecticut infantrymen settled
themselves in enmn toilav and c.ele-
night and should reach its station at j llrat(? ,he Fmlrth il!onK wUh the
Eagle pass tomorrow.
other newly arrived militia, residents
mo llerp SpPnt the dav in entire quiet,
that are being sent to El Paso and sta- , Therp vvas a patriotic ctvic ,.,,.
t.ons west of there .ut it is known that :(n(, stores wm cose1
before the war department adopted cept storps with sma fomuains
General I-unsto.vs suggestion to d.v.de aU;,ohed, wnU.h dld a ,Prrific bU8l.
the southern department into three
commands he and his staff had worked ,,.' ., ., . ,.
.i,iji,i vi. , . ir, et-i, t oiiiiiiaiiuin 5 ine
out a station list with the idea of pro
viding adequate forces, so far aspossi
ble, for all districts from which men
might be drawn for general operations
in Mexico. When the two general of
ficers, designated under the new plan
of providing a field army formation,
assume charge of the work in the west
they will find already there all the
7.ri men of the First Connecticut field
hospital and Captain "William T.
Owens with 90 men of the First Con-"
necticut ambulance corps, arrived late
today on a special train.
The camp of the second battalion
of the Second Connecticut infantry
was isolated from the remainder of
The situation at the end of the fourth
day with regard to the British posi
tions north of the Ancre is much the
same as on the evening of July 1, and
south of the Ancre, past La Boisselle,
the depth of the territory taken in
creases toward the Somme, until at
Montauban it measures about two
miles. It further increases on the
front of the French before Peronne.
Half-starved Germans are still lieing
found at the bottom of dugouts, 40 feet
deep, at Fricourt. Some have refused
to surrender, so strong is their faith
that a fierman counter attack would
rescue them. The dugouts were blasted mea, the railway junction point recently
out with dynamite.
I taken by the Russians.
Bryan Says Not .
. To Heed Clamor
Fjor Militarism
tteoublican A. P. Leased Wire
XEW YORK, July 4. Hope that "the
teachers in" our public schools will not
yield to the clamor for militarism" was
voiced today by Wm. Jennings Bryan
in an address before the National Edu
cation association in session here. "It
is not the voice of the people." he said,
"but an echo from the battlefields of
Europe. The temporary excitement of
a world war should not be allowed to
disturb our permanent educational sys
tem. The school is not a transient in
stitution; it will abide with us 'when
the battle flags are furled.' "
"The 'adequate' reserves asked by
one party." the former secretary of
state continued, "and the, 'ample' re
serves asked by the other party can be
adequately and amply supplied without
lobbing the cradle by recruiting in the
graded schools."
men now available and so disposed that ,he foment because of a case of
they can be moved easily to any posi- 1ikM snalox which attacked Corp
tions the new commanding officers mav eral Mathon of Waterbury siKn after
desire. ' I t,le train left Niantic. Conn.
Other, companies will be sent to bor- I A" of thp Connecticut troops were
der points as fast as factories can sup- "-"'mated during mobilization and
ply the trucks. , company ,M of the First regiment was
From six to t,wenty-four carloads of ' ,eft behind because one of its mem
bers had been exposed to a case of
(Continued on Page Ten)
SAY AGED COUPLE
MURDERED THE. PARKERS
I COLUMBCS, N. M., July 4.
I'nofficial reports from -Haehita,
tonight state that the murderers
of Wm. PaYker and his wife.
Alice, have been caught by a
posse ledv by brothers of Parker, j
' The murderers, according to the
report, were an aged Mexican
I couple formerly in the employ of
the Parkers, and they are now j
being brought, it is said, to Ha-
chita from across the border. J
I Colonel H. C. Sickles, commander j
of the bolder patrol, is awaiting
details of the capture, which lacks j
official confirmation at Hichita. I
1
' i
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, July 4. General
Carranza's formal reply to the two
sharp notes he has received from
the Washington government, regard
ing the situation on the border and
in northern Mexico was at the Mex
ican embassy here tonight awaiting
presentation tomorrow to Secretary
Lansing, by Eliseo Arredondo, ambassador-designate.
It arrived by
telegraph early in the -day and only
the fact that the Fourth of July was
being celebrated by all government
departments prevented its immediate
delivery.
A verbal synopsis of the communi
cation made public by embassy at
taches with the approval of Mr. Ar
redondo. indicates that it is of an
unexpectedly conciliatory character.
The ambassador himself spent the
day in the country and on his return
excused himself from any discussion
of his government's attitude as now
officially stated.
Lacking the text of the note, it was
impossible tonight to say whether it
would prove satisfactory to Presi
dent Wilson. Since, the release of
the American troopers taken at Car
rizal the question at issue between
Washington and General Carranza.
has been narrowed to Mr. Wilson's
desire for a. formal declaration of in
tention toward the American expedi
tionary forces in Mexico. The em
bassy synopsis of the new note in
dicates that a specific statement still
is lacking.
Only a close study of the reply
will disclose whether it will be nec
essary to press General Carranza,
again to affirm or deny the hostile
construction placed upon his orders
that American troops would be at
tacked if they moved in any direction
except toward the border.
Without doubt, the effect of the
embassy st:Uement as to the note's
character has been to relax still fur
' ther the diplomatic tension between
the two governments. The release of
the Carrizal prisoners already had
stripped the situation of its imme
diate dangerous character. It is en
tirely possible, however, that Ameri
can officials will not fully share the
optimistic views of the Mexican em
bassy, when they are able to review
the language of the Carranza note.
One fact stood out clearly tonight
in the minds of officials familiar with
President Wilson's desires, and pur
poses. If General Carran.a sincerely
desires to find a way for peaceful
settlement of the difficulties between
the two governments, he will be met
more than half way. The diplomatic
discussion foreshadowed in the event
however, would have to le wholly
aside from the steps the Washington
government deems it necessary to
take to protect American lives ond
property along the border. No pro
posal or immediate withdrawal of
General Pershing's troops would be
entertained as a preliminary to a fur
ther exchange of views on joint oper
ations against bandits.
The embassy synopsis of the latest
communication indicates that the do
facto government has sought to bring
its side of the diplim.-itic correspon
dence up to date. It is framed as a
reply both to the American note re
fusing to entertain any request for
the immediate withdrawal of Ameri
can troops from Mexico, and to the
later stern demands presented after
the Carrizal incident for release of
(Continued on Page Three)
(Continued on Page Ten)
APPLICATION FOR
RED CROSS MEMBERSHIP
I'hoenix Chapter, American National Red Cross,
Care of H. J. McClung, Phoenix National Bank,
I'hoenix, Ariz.
Herewith, I make application for membership in the Phoenix Chapter,
American National Red Cross. I enclose One Dollar ($1.00) as payment of
the first year's enrollment fee. ..
(Signed)
July 1916.
(Address)
i
