w rrfxfffffff'miiTi
Wtu- - "W"
" 3 tojSpwOTTv
Iftehroflfrro fflan&
WEATHER FORECAST:
Fair Tonight.
(Full Report on Pago Two.)
HOME
EDITION
Si
NUMBER 8952.
WASHINGTON, WEDNESDAY EVENING, JULY 5. 1916.
F
NH
SHOV
E
LINE FORWARD
E
NEAR PERfll
Take German Trench North of
Somme and Gain Three
Miles on South.
Beware, Ye Suffs,
Hear Your Friends
If radical woman suffrage work
ers continue to heckle Demo
cratic speakers as Miss Mabel
Vernon, of Nevada, did Presi
dent Wilson here yesterday,
they will drive away men who
naturally would support them,
declared Senator Thomas of
Colorado, on the floor today.
As chairman of the Senates Wom
an Suffrage Committee, he de
fied the women to do their po
litical worst and defended his
committee for not having
forced a vote on the proposed
national amendment.
PRICE ONE CENT.
FIRST CAPITAL CARRANZ A REPLY HANDED
TROOPS PASS TO T A NKlNfe OPF.NTS WAY
TO DIRECT NEGOTIATIONS
BRISTOL
VA.
ALL COUNTER-ATTACKS FAIL
British Hold Ground Already
Won Against Assaults of the
Kaiser's Army.
BERLIN, July 5. A violent
battle is raging on both sides of
the Somme, where the allies are
pushing their great offensive, it
was officially announced this
afternoon.
PARIS, July 5. French troops
last night resumed their great
drive against the Germans on both
sides of the River Somme.
"During the night we carried a
German trench line east of Curlu,
north of the Somme." it was offi
cially announced today.
"South of the Somme, following
further gains, French infantry
captured the Sormont farm, situ
ated on the left bank of the river
across from Clery. All the south
ern region between this farm and
Hill 63. on the road between Flau
court and Barleux, fell into the
hands of the French.
"The position at Belloy en San
terre (captured by the French
Monday) was attacked by the Ger
mans during foe night, Jhey cap
tured the eastern part of the vil
lage, but were afterward ejected by
a counter-attack.
"The Germans are still holding
part of the village of Estrees
(southwest of Peronne), where the
struggle is most violent. All Ger
man counter-attacks broke down
under French fire.
"The total number of unwound
ed prisoners in our hands thus far
Is 9,000. The number of guns
captured is yet unknown. A sin
gle French army corps, operating
south of the Somme, captured six
ty guns."
STRAIGHTEN LINE.
German positions from Sormont farm
Itself to a height nearly three miles
outh of the river on the Flacourt-
Barloux road fell Into the hands of the
Germans. By the capture of these po
sition the French not only straightened
their front south of the Somme, but
pressed closer .to Peronne.
North of the Somme, the French
drove eastward from Curlu toward tho
highway loading south from Combles
over which the Germans In the region of
Clery have been obtaining supplies.
BRITISH WIN GROUND
IN NIGHT FIGHTING
Thiepval Held Against All Attacks,
Haig Reports.
LONDON", July 5. British troops made
further progress at Important points
Inst night In heavy fighting between the
Ancre and the Somme, General Halg.
British commander-in-chief, reported
today.
"At Thiepval (northeast of Albert),
two determined enemy attacks were re
pulsed, the enemy suffering heavy
losses," said tho official statement.
CATCHMEXICANSPY
IS ma LATER
Carried Letter Giving Detailed
Information of U. S. Troop
Disposition.
The Bureau of Investigation of the
Department of Justice today reported
the capture of a Mexican spy on the
border, having In hla possesion a copy of
a communication to a Mexican com
mander giving details of the disposition
of American forces along the border.
The Mexican has been released, owing
to the lack of proper laws under which
to prosecute him.
Funston Places
Militia on Border
22,000 New York Guardsmen Are
Stationed in Brownsville
District.
Guardsmen Speeding to Border
Enter Tennessee at Noon
Today.
IN ROANOKE FEW MINUTES
Two-Section Train Carries Sig
nal Corps, ' Field Hospital,
and Colored Soldiers.
BRISTOL, Va., July 5. Divi
sions of the District National
Guard, who left Rosslyn, Va., last
night for the Mexican border pass
ed through Bristol at 11:15 o'clock
this morning.
There were two sections of the
troop train, which carried the Sig
nal Corps, the Field Hospital, and
the First Separate Battalion. The
men expressed themselves as well
pleased with accommodations on
the trains, and were in thigh spirits.
The troop trains stopped at
Roanoke for a few minutes at 6:30
this morning for water.
The second typhoid prophylaxis
treatment is to be given the Signal
Corps and Field Hospital men on
the train thin afternoon by the
medical officers of the Field Hos-
Text of Reply Sent
By Carranza to U. S.
The Mexican note transmitted to Secretary Lansine todav bv Am
bassador Arredondo is signed by Aguilar and is addressed directly to
Secretary Lansing. The correspondence follows:
Mr. Secretary:
"I have the honor to transmit in continuation the text of a tint
I have just received from my government, with instructions to present
it to your excellency:
SAN ANTONIO, Tex., July 6.-The
big movement of national guardsman
to the border continued today, and Gen
eral Funston and his staff disposed the' .,. .
State troops on a tactical basis aa fast."11"' -orPs
as they arrived. Maior Barker, rnmmnnrimn th
The exact destination of other units!-. ,. ' . , ' . 6
are not given out here, but it is known ,rieia Hospital Corps, li as ordered
that about 22.000 New York ijuardsmen ,t. r :-..j r i.
win be stationed in tho Brownsville dis-, classes of instruction for his men
trlot. The First Cavalry bquadronL.v:i . j . i
nd the Second Artillery Company-oftwullc- " oanva train. JCXt-DOOKS,
which were brought along for that
purpose, will be used
Mr. Secretary:
"Referring to the note of June 20
and 26 last, I have the honor to say
to your excellency that the Immediate
release of the Carrlzal prisoners was
a further proof of the sincerity of the
desire of this government to reach a
pacific and satisfactory arrangement
of present difficulties.
"'this government ll anxious to solve
the present conflict, and It would be
unjust If its attitude should be misin
terpreted. "It was also the Mexican government
that earnestly suggested a plan for can
tonments along the boundary line our
Ing the conferences of Cludad Juarez
lutlon of which must bo the directing
object of the efforts of both govern
ments. "The Mexican government Is willing
to consider In a quick and practical way
and prompted by a spirit of concord the
remedies which should be applied to the
present situation.
"Several Latin-American countries
have offered their friendly mediation
to the Mexican government, and the lat
ter has accepted It In principle. There
fore, the Mexican government only
awaits Information that the Government
of the United States would be disposed
to accept this mediation for the purposo
mentioned above or whether It la still
and El 1'aso. inis government Is ai- of -the belief that the same results may
irvscu iiuw, iis ii nan mways Deen, lo
that State passed through here lato yes
terday. Four of the new forty-five truck com
panies ordered are expected to do dll
ered thjs week. They comprise thirty
three trucks to the company. From a
half to two dozen carloads of horses are
arriving dally, and It Is estlnitod that
lo.ooo horses will be here by the end of
this week.
Major Blanton Wlnshlp. Judge advo
cate who came here from Fort Leaven- Doctor Kent Rnv Prnarinn Mr.
worth to try the "slackers" In ttaei l ra IVepl BUSy Preparing Men
rexas .-National uuaro. is nnaing it hard
to locate anybody to try. Among tne
recruits who arrived here yesterday were
twenty-five of those listed for court
martial for failing to respond when the
Texas militia was called out.
HOPE TO GET THIRD
OFF BY NEXT WEEK
Wants Congress to
Probe Troop Trains
Hampton Moore Urges Inquiry
As to Class of Transporta
tion Furnished Guard.
J.
VERDUN'S ASSAILANTS
OPPOSE BRITISH ARMY
PRESS CAMP. HEADQUARTERS
OF THE BRITISH ARMY IN
FRANCE, July 5. German units
from the Verdun front have appeared
In action against the British north
of the Sommp. having been trans
ferred In the last few hours to meet
the allied offensive.
A German counter-attack at Thiep
val this morning was repulsed
Several German officers rushed up
(Continued on Fourth Page.)
RUSS REPULSED,
BERLIN REPORTS
A resolution asking the Secretary of
War to Inform tho llousn whether re
port are true that troops o.f the na
tional guard "are being transportcdTor
service on the Mexican frontier In dilap
idated railroad cars without adequate
living and sleeping accommodations,"
was Introduced today by Congressman
J. Hampton Moore, Republican, of
Pennslvanla.
It is asserted In the resolution that it
Is "publicly reported," that troops are
being sent to tho border In cars lacking
a sufficient number of sleeping berths,
and In an otherwise unsatisfactory condition.
Lansing To Begin
Vacation on Friday
Secretary of State to Recuperate
at Watertown, N. Y. From
Recent Illness.
Slavs Driven Back by Army
Prince Leopold of Bavaria.
of
BERLIN. July 5 -In stubborn hand-to-hawl
fighting Gorman troops under
Trlnce Leopold, of Bavaria, have re-
fmlsed the Russians near Baranovlstchl,
nfllctlng severe losses, the War office
announces this afternoon.
Secretary of State Lansing will
leae here on Friday for an extended
vacation at Watertown. N. Y., his
home. He had planned to depart to
day, but delivery of the Carranza
note caused him to postpone depart-
Lansing's recent Illness has left him
In a weakened condition, and it la
urohable he will be absent a wk nr
more to recuperate from what
rrlends had thought might prove a
breakdown.
The fact that Terminer AtA nn H.I...
his vacation more than a day was
taken as partially Indicative that the
.ucAitmi tuumion is much Improved.
Carranza Troops Leave
.Vicinity of Eagle Pass
EAOLE t'ASa, 'lex., July 6.-uenerai
Murgla today was reported to be moving
several thousand Carranza troops from
Pledraa Negros. opposite here, to the
railroad town of Allende, forty miles
south.
No motive for tho movement Is known.
Hetty Green Buried
At Bell6ws Falls, Vt.
BELLOWS FALLS. Vt., July 5 The
train bearing the body of Mrs. Hetty
Green arrived here shortly after 10
o'clock today and the funeral took
place at 11:30.
to Resist Typhoid.
With 500 District militiamen already
en route to the Mexican border. ni
cral Harvey, Captain Hobbs and other
omcera in the mobilization camp bent
all their energies today toward srtlnr
the Third regiment In readiness to en
train "tho latter part of this week or
the first of next."
Inoculation was the order of the day,
tho medical officers stating tht they
Intended to administer antityphoid toxin
to every Infantryman In camp If this
wrru possible. In carrying ou this pro
gram the machine gun company was
oroercd to the regimental infirmary for
Inoculation, shortly after 6 o'clock this
morning and the Infantry companies
wcro ordered to report as rapidly as
possible to the doctors.
All of the Infantrjmen have now been
medically cxomlned. and the reports
of the doctors as to what percentage
of men pulsed and failed are anxlounlv
awaited. Capt. E. W. Fullom. adju
tant of tho third regiment, said he ex
pected to receive the report somo time
today.
Total Strength 1,014 Men.
Captain Fullam said tho total
strength of tho Third today was 1,014
men, counting me men who will be re
jected for physical defects. He said
the Third must have 946 men who hae
passed the physical examination, before
It can go to the border.
me twelve companies of Infantry must
have slxty-flvo men each, or a, total of
780 men. The machine gun company
must have fifty-three men. h K.
quarters company flfty-clght. the supply
company thirty-one. and the sanitary
detachment twenty-four.
The regiment now has only fifty-eight
men above tho required total for the
Infantry, machine gun company, head
quarters, supply and sanitary dotach
(Contlnued on Pago Twelve.)
Stromboli Active,
Hundredsin Danger
ROME, July 5. Relief parties started
from Messina today to rescue Inhabi
tants of Stromboli Island, threatened
by the violent eruption of the Strom
bolt volcano.
The fires from Stromboli can bo seen
distinctly from Messina and the Sicilian
coast. Many houses have been de
stroyed. When last advice ret.chod
Messina tho 2.600 Inhabitants of tho
Island have congregated near the Fea-shorc.
seek an Immediate solution of the two
points which constitute the true causes
ortneconnict between the two countries,
to wit:
"The American Government believes
rcssonably that the Insecurity of Its
frontier Is a source of difficulty and
the Mcxlcatl goxernmrnt on its part be
lieve that the May of American troops
on Mexican territory aside from being
a trespass on the sovereignty of Mex
ico Is the Immediate fcuse -tt th con
filet,
"Therefore, th withdrawal of Amer
ican troop3, on the one hand, and the
protection of the frontier, on the other,
are the two essential problems, tho so- i
U. S. Now Prepared to Take Up Withdrawal
of Troops With Mexican Government.
According to Indications at
State Department
NO DISPOSITION HERE TO MEDIATE
Officials Generally Concede Tone of Note
Is of Such a Character As to Remove
For Time Being At Least All
Danger of Break.
tlons between both governments,
"In the meantime th's Government
proposes to employ all efforts that may
be at Its disposal to avoid the recur
rences of new Incidents which may com
plicate and aggravate the situation. At
the same time It hopes that the Amer
ican Government on Its part may make
use of all efforts to prevent also new
acU of Its military and civil authorities
of the frontier that may cause new com
plications. "I avail myself of this opportunity to
reiterate to your excellency the assur
ance of my most distinguished consideration.
"C. AGUILAR."
"Having thus complied with the higher instructions of my govern
ment, it affords me pleasure to reiterate to your excellency the assur
ance of my highest consideration. E. ARREDONDO."
The note la dated July i.
WIN
PLEAD FOR REVENUE BILL IS
VOTE AND
1DETYET
Teachers, At New York Conven
tion, Shocked by Much Hose
and FeW Clothes.
NEW YORK. July R.-Tho "big drive"
of the suffragists In tho National Edu
cation Association convention la un
der way today, but tho fight for
women's rights" Is overshadowed by
protest against "women's wrongs,"'
Down with displays of fine silken
hose, down with rlcc-powder all over
tho nose" this is the battle cry hoard
In every nook of tho MoAlpIn, the Wal
dorf and the Astor, where the teachers
have gathered.
Two days In New York have thorough
ly disgusted tho visiting school teach
ers with the "much hose, few clpthes,"
of New York women and they feel that
tho gny little high school girls of tho
United States must bo saved from these
fashions. Suffrngo and modesty Ire'
dress will be urgcdiupon tho convention.
Dr. Shaw Speaks Tonight.
Dr. Anna Shaw will speak tonight
and will have some pertinent things
to aav about feminine vogues. Mrs.
Cora (1. Lewis, Kansas' most Illustrious
woman, Is leading the fight for mod-
STEAMER SHELLS
GERMAN SUBMARINE
Undersea Boat Is Unharmed by
Strange Craft, Berlin Reports.
BERLIN (Via wireless to Sayvllle, L.
I.), July 6. A subn'iarlne of the central
powers was shelled by a large steamer
of unknown nationality at a range of
ii.ut,i .lx.JT"lV8J.e.ast of the a!erlc
Islands In the Mediterranean on May 27
It was learned today when the subma
rine returned to Its home port.
The submarine had not even stopped
the steamer.
The under-sea boat waa not harmed,
esty and suffrage.
Since tho women control the vote of
tho convention It seems certain that
tho resolution committee will report
on Friday in favor of national suf
frncrfi and the nlank will embodv a
protest against immodesty in the garb
or women.
Rural school teachers feel that city
school boyB upend too much time In
ainietics ana tea ounces, ine dock
to-tliotsoll movement Is the only sal
vatlon of the country they claim.
Hence the Department of Agricultural
education under the leadership of W.
F. Luzk, of the University of Minne
sota, Is urging a resolution to make
compulsory nprncuituro stuay ror stu
dents In city high schools.
Wood Winds Up Fight.
Today MaJ. Gen. Leonard Wood
wound up tho flght for military train
ing In the schools with an address
to the physical training section at
the De Witt Clinton High School. Tho
committee on military training la
meeting this afternoon, and will re
port tomorrow.
Next to the surrrage and dress
Question, the problem of defection
children occupied tho greatest Inter
est today. Sectional meetings to
discuss the problem of training de
fectives were held.
The unanimous nomination of Tlnh.
ert J. Aley, president of the Univer
sity of Maine, for president of the
Association Is expected when the
nominating committee makes its ro
port late this afternoon.
The United States Government is prepared to nego
tiate directly with the Carranza government for a gradual
withdrawal ,of the American troops from Mexico, according
to indications at the State Department following the prescn-
i be attained by means of direct negotia- i tation today of the long expected Carranza note, which, as
predicted, was most pacific and temperate in tone.
Although officials of the department would not discuss
the communication, pending the verdict of the President, It
was practically admitted that the negotiations would pro
ceed directly between the two governments. At present there
is no disposition to deal with the question through media
ation. It is generally conceded thafthe character of" the" Car
ranza note is such as to remove for the time being at least
all prospect of a break in the relations between the two gov
ernments. While it is admitfed that at any time a clash may occur
between the armed forces of the two countries that would
precipitate a break, it is also conceded that the war clouds
which. hung over the situation in its earlier stages have
lifted.
It is pointed out that the proposals which Carranza
makes with respect to the policing of the border section of
Mexico are practically those which the American Govern
ment at the very outset of the raids urged upon Carranza.
MAY MEAN WITHDRAWAL OF TROOPS.
If investigation shows that the de facto government is
able to render practical its promises to "employ all efforts
that may be at its disposal to avoid the recurrence of new
incidents which may complicate and aggravate the situa-'
tion," it is regarded as a foregone conclusion that the last
of the American troops will be withdiawn.
It was pointed out today that throughout the negotia
tions of the past the principal obstacle that has stood in the
way of an agreement has been the unwillingness of the Car
ranza government to admit its obligations respecting the
ed fmaiiy to vote for the measure, ou'i.,M .u' luc mus' ana ,ts inainerence toward the fre
thesee things"8 dcbator" win cnnrg0 Quent violations of American territory.
u me now received today from the Mexicans, however,
not only is this obligation freely admitted, but the admission
is made that these raids have justified the United States in
believing that its territory was insecure.
Reference in the note to the efforts of the Mexican
representative at the Scott-Obregon conferences at ElPaso
and Juarez to put into operation a plan for "cantonments"
along the boundary disclosed the fact that the insistence of
General Obregon on this' plan was one of the primary rea
sons for the failure of the conferences
BACK IN
HOUSE
Republican Members Force
Extra Day for General De
bate of Measure.
Hopes of Democrntlc leaders to pass
the now revenue bill In tho House be
fore the end of tho week were shat
tered today, when Republican mem
bers of the Ways and Means commit
tee forced the majority to yield an
extra day for general debate. It Is
likely a final vote on the measuro
will be taken Monday.
while many Republicans are expect
That the Democrats have stolen
Republican doctrines by providing
for a tariff commlsslcn, and have
recognized the principle of protec
tion by Increasing duties on dye
stuffs. That the establishment of a na
tional Inheritance tax will rob the
mates of a fruitful source or reve
nue That upward revUlcn of the
tariff would more equally distrib
ute burdens of preparedness than
Increase of the Income tax ratos.
When tha Ways nnd Means commit
tee met today for consideration of
tho bill, Congressman Kordney, ot
Michigan, mcved that tho bill be re
ported adversely, but only throe col
leagues otdd with him Green, Sloan
and Moore.
The bill was to be explained In de
tail, with tho hope of having It fav
orably reported before adjournment
to-day.
MISSING TRANSPORT
IS SAFE IN HAVANA
Ward Line Hears Boat Carrying
Refugees Has Landed.
NEW YORK. July B.-Tho Ward liner
announced that It was In receipt of a
cable from Havana to the effect that the
transport Monterey for which consider
able anxiety has been felt, arrived at
that port at 6 o'clock this morning,
Tho cable stated that tho ship had
been delayed by bad weather.
The Navy Department had radio
graphed all its vessels In nearby south
ern waters to bo on tho lookout for the
transport Monterey. The Monterey has
refugees aboard from Mexico and was
last spoken as she was running into a
typhoon.
PLAN OF JOINT PATROL.
ine pian as proposed calls for tho
stationing, on
opposite sides of th
boundary and at stated Intervals along
uib ooraer, or American ond Mexican
posts. General Obregon suggested this
scheme as a means of affording co
operation In tho patrol of the territory,
but co-operation under which tho Amer
ican and Moxlcan forces would be re.
strlctcd to their own territory.
Why Plan Was Opposed.
Inasmuch, however, that this plan
was predicted at nil times on a with
drawal of the American forces, General
Scott, It was learned, consistently re
fused to discuss It. His orders had been
to discuss nothing which called for a
withdrawal of Pershing's expedition.
At that time, however, tho bandit
raids were still going on. The raids on
Glenn Springs and Boqulllas, Tex., oc
curred while the conferences were In
progress. Moreover, at that time, there
was nothing but the word of tho Mexi
can authorities that Mexican forces
conditions along tho border, with tha
Physical cvldenco of a large Mexican
force now In the field, and. above all.
oftVnhorw,a,!Be ln ""Itude on the part
nt th.?riranru, K?ve"inient from one
Minre?,tTlnK MuV to one of concllt-
Si U i'i" J10W . fe,t that tho troops
might well be withdrawn.
.n !lat even.ti u ' Pointed out, It may
well happen that the plan of canton
ments proposed by Obregon might be
considered and put Into operation.
intn i?!iii.n8 the no,p. was translated
into English a copy of It was at oneo
sent to the President. No comment
ww?V0R was forthcoming from the
SJl onHmffm A? ev,denc'."K the gen
fj"! "P""1""!. however. Is the fact
that Secretary of State Lansing nlana
j ?iJ.v" Washington tomiPrw & i
month's vacation.
Labor Men Took Part.
There was a time. It becamo known
today, when General Carranra had
framed and practically was tvkHv
send a doflant reply to the demand of
i-resiaeni wuson. This was little more
thnn a week ago.
were being put in the field In northern Then ,ne unofficial diplomats ot
Mexico to run down the bandits. I uy. They Include American and Max-
With the subsequent improyement ln loan labor leader and varloui persona
