EVENING
EDITION
VOL. 11, NO. 158.
Nominating Convention to
be Held Soon by Third
Party.
AMERICAN SHIP
IN COLLISION
Dover, England.—The amerlcan
steamship "Jacob Luckenback" today
was in collision with an unidentified
ship off Dover. Her crew of 31 was
rescued.
HEIR PRESUMPTIVE
NOW A LIEUTENANT
Berlin, July 6.—According to a tra
ditional custom of the Hohenzollern
house, Prince William, eldest son of
Crown Prince Frederick William and
heir presumptive, was enrolled In the
army yesterday, his tenth birthday.
He was appointed a lieutenant of the
first guard Infantry.
The prince, like his great great
grandfather, Emperor William I., who
became a lieutenant in 1807, begins
his-military career in the midst of a
great war.
Prince William also was given an
honorary command with the second
guard landwehr regiment.
WISCONSIN ASSESSOR ARRESTED.
Girl Says Groat Fired at Her and
Iben Attempted Own Life.
Cumberland, Wis., July 6.—Ernst
Groat, assessor of the town of Stln
I nett, has been arrested for an attack
with a deadly weapon. The accusation
was made by Miss Anna Pendergast,
who says that Groat attacked her and
that when she fought him he shot at
her, the ball grazing her skull- Groat
pulled the trigger a second time, she
says, and also attempted to shoot
himself, but the gun would not dis
charge. She escaped.
CELEBRATE IN LONDON.
London, July t.—Independence day
was celebrated by the London branch
I of the Grand Army of the Republic at
a luncheon at which the veterans en
tertained wounded soldiers. The
-wf
py
j&sr>
American consul general, Robert p.
Skinner, was In charge of the ar
rangements.
ME WEATHER.
North Dakota: Ffclr tonight
and probably Thursday, cooler
east and central portion.
UNIVERSITY READINGS.
7 A M.. 70, maximum, 79
minimum, 65 precipitation trace,
barometer,. 29.96 wind south 9
miles.
NOTE, DELIVERED TODAY, IS VERY
CONCIUATORY IN TONE BELIEVE
IT Will AVERT ANY HOSTILITIES
Washington, July 5.-—Carranza's reply to the last two
notes sent him by the United States government was de
livered to the state department early today by a Mexican
embassy attache.
The reply, as announced yesterday, is conciliatory in
terms, giving assurances of a desire to reach a friendly ad
justment of the difficulties between the two countries.
As soon as a translation of the Spanish text could be
made, it was sent to the White House. Until Lansing and
Wilson have had an opportunity to confer, there will be
no formal comment. But some state department officials
did not attempt to conceal the fact that they considered
the note most satisfactory and likely to remove all danger
of war.
Brief and free from all superfluous language of diplomacy the
communication points to the release of the American troops captured
at OarrixaL, Is proof of the Mexican government's sincere desire to
avoid a conflict. It states that the outstanding Issue is the reasonable
belief of'the United States that the Insecurity on the other hand the
belief of the Mexican government that the presence of American
troops in Mexico is a trespass on the country's sovereignity and the
Immediate cause of the trouble.
In offering to consider in a "quick, practical, way," the remedy
Which should be applied, the note gives notice that Mexico accept
ed In principle, the Lati 11 American offers of mediation, and awaits in
formation that the United States is disposed to accept mediation or
Still is of the belief that the same results may be obtained by direct
negotiations.
Assurances arc given in the meantime that the de facto govern
ment will employ every effort to avert a reenrranre of the Incidents
which complicate and aggravate th? situation. The hope is expressed
that the United States will endeavor to have its military and civil
authorities do likewise. This Is Carranza's reply to the demand for a
statement of his intentions.
A specific response to the question as to whether he stands upon
the instructions to General Trevlno to attack American troops moving
other than northward is evaded. There is no mention of the reprimand
administered by Lansing in his not? on account of the offensive Ih
sinuatlons and language contained in Carranza's last communication,
demanding the recall of American troops.
Although the note, which is le3s than *00 words long, is signed by
Agnilar, offiaLau of tbe Mebdcaa embassy believe it
himseU,
(Herald Special Service.
Fargo, N. D.—The Praogressive
party will put an entire state ticket
In the field in North Dakota, and a
convention for the purpose of making
nominations will be held shortly. London, July 5.—"Only German
O. E. Engen, national committee- soldiers in open field formations now
man announced the plan today. The stand between the French and the
date, and place of the convention will river Somme," said Major Oeneral F.
be determined at a conference of B. Maurice yesterday, referring to the
third party leaders, within a few days, part of the river which flows north
ward to the east of the sector along
STATE TICKET ENGLISH SPENT LONG WEEKS IN
BY BOIL MOOSE PREPARING JOffRfWANIEDTIEM
ATHER THAN HELP AT VERDUN
which the French have made their
greatest gains.
'The last of the enemy's defensive
works In that sector have been cap
tured by our allies."
In giving the Associated Press a
sumary of the results attained by the
Entente Allied offensive on the west
ern front. Major General .Maurice,
who is director of military operations
of the imperial general staff, con
tinued
"Much undeserved obloquy has
been heaped upon the British army
by English, French and American
people because we apparently did
nothing to assist the French in the
desperate fighting at Verdun. But
all this time we were doing the part
requested by General Joffre.
"According to this plan, we con
served our troops, Accumulated sup
plies and waited the word for the
grand offensive in which we were to
play our part with the Russian and
Italians, as well as the French.
Knew When Strike Would Come.
"Naturally during these anxious
weeks we could give out no exciting
news because our deliberate prepara
tions were not good copy. For cer
tain tactical and moral reasons which
need not be dilated upon, it was
necessary that the Ftench should not
lose the east bank of the Mease, and
General Joffre informed us that he
could hold the positions which com
mand that part of the river until the
end of June, so we knew we were go
ing to strike at the beginning of July.
"The blow planned by the Allied
general staffs included offensives by
the Russians and Italians which, I do
not need to tell you. already have be
gun. We are .not disappointed with
our own advance, which we expected
to be slow, and we are enormously
pleased with the wonderful progress
made by the French who, with com
paratively light losses, are sweeping
forward to the Somme.
"It is quite evident that the Ger
mans were surprised by the strength
of the French offensive. They evi
dently believed our aZUes would be
kept too busy before Verdun to par
ticipate seriously in the western of
fensive which they knew was coming.
Consequently, they made extensive
preparations before our front, piling
up reinforcements there, while com
paratively neglecting the southern
sector dominated-by the French. The
Germans anticipating owr move,
brought up great forces, much of
which consisted of Independent units
called mousqueton battalions, armed
only with light machine guns, ft was
these battalions which inflicted the
heaviest looses on us.
"Our enemy is brave and resource­
-Sett.*
NORTH DAKOTA'S
Major General Maurice, Director of Military Operations,
Tells of Britain's Part—Now Only German Forces in
Open Field Stand Between French and Somme.
GRAND PORKS, N.
I BORDER
GUARDS' BREAD
SUPPLY CUT OFF
Columbus, Ohio, July 5.—-Twelve
thousand Ohio national guardsmen at
Camp Willis are without an adequate
supply of bread today as a result of
a Are which destroyed the plant of
the Columbus Bread company here
yesterday. The company was under
contract to furnish the soldiers with
10,900 loaves of bread a day. Other
bakery plants here are not equipped
to handle so large a contract. Part
of the camp's bread supply will prob
ably be shipped from other cities.
The company's loss was estimated
at more than $160,000. Hundreds of
sacks of flour were consumed and one
flreman was injured. An overheated
oven is believed to have cauiwd the
flre.
SHACKELTON IS
IN dif TODAY
Antarctic Explorer Arrives
at Punta Arenas—Relief
Force Formed.
Punta Arenas, Chile, July 6.—Sir
Ernest Shackleton. Antarctic explor
er, arrived here today.
A relief expedition recently was or
ganized to rescue the main party of
Shackleton's Antarctic party.
INJURIES FATAL.
Waukegan, 111., July 5.—John Ken
nelly, 45 years old, Chicago, is dead
today from Injuries received when
he was struck by a Chicago & North
western train at Wilmette Monday.
Kennelly and his fiance were walking
on the railroad track and in evading
a southbound train he stepped in the
path of one going north.
FAMILY DROWNED.
Manhattan, Kan., July 5.—C. L.
Manshardt, his wife and 10-year-old
son Leonard, were drowned In Wild
cat creek, four miles west of here,
yesterday, while on. a Ashing expedi
tion.- i-.*'
ful, and put up a desperate defense,
especially in the region from Gomme
court to Fricourt. where he evidently
expect our main attack. In this re
gion the fighting was especially
severe. The chalk formation gave
the Germans a splendid chance to
make the beet use of their miners
who constructed dugouts and other
defensive works whioh our heaviest
shells oould not destroy. From the
works Mousqueton battalions put up a
most determined resistace.
"Physical features made the cap
ture of Fricourt peculiarly difficult,
and our severe losses there were not
unexpected. Montaubon was one of
the strongest positions occupied by
the Germans, but our advance there
was brilliant and rapid, without the
losses suffered between Gommecourt
and Fricourt.
"On the whole, we are well satis
fied with our advance. We will con
tinue our artillery preparation, as we
have no Intention of butting our head
against a stone wall. The human
factor must be considered, and this
factor presents some unexpected prob
lems on the German side, since after
all the enemy has something to say
about the progress of any offensive.
We are meeting strenous opposition.
Our progress most certainly will be
deliberate. Many places like Fri
court will be taken only after over
coming desperate opposition.
"That our gallant allies should ad
vance tester with smaller losses than
we Is not only the fortunes of war,
but may be called poetic justice, since
they. lost so heavily during the long
weeks while we were getting ready
to take our share In the great offen
sive. However, it must be clear now,
even to laymen, that the blame
heaped on us for not going to the aid
of the Frenoh before Verdun was
quite undeserved, as we are doing ex
actly what General Joffre requested.
And when he gave the word we
sprang to the attack In which we
have suffered grievously, but which
leads to no regrets beyond sorrow for
the fallen for It now Is our time to
stand the brunt of battle.
"South of the Somme the Germans
were completely surprised and our
allies will get through to the river
without much less. In that region
you may look for Immediate develop
ments as the fighting there now Is In
open field formation, the last of the
enemy's works having been captured.
A glanoe at the map will show you
that our allies are clear across the
network of trenchea
•Further north you will note that
VMto our line now is beyond the lint
•arise of German defenses, we are in
immediate contact with strongly forti
fled places.
"We are well content to do our
•hare in the great general allied offen
•*e, which already has proven that
the initiative, so long in their hands,
now -Is lost by the armies ot the cen
tral powers."
WEDNESDAY EVENING, JULY 5, 1916.
Indications of an Early De
parture for the Mexican
Border.
COMPANY CIS
EXAMINED TODAY
Quartermaster's Depart
ments Also Are Being
Inspected.
(By Staff Correspondent.)
Fort Lincoln, N. D., July 5.—It Is
expected that the first battalion of the
North Dakota regiment, will leave for
the south within the next few daya
New indications of an early move
have sprung up during the last few
days,' and there" is a possibility that
the regiment will leave here before
the physical examinations are com
pleted.
Work on the third battalion began
this morning. Company C, the rank
ing company of the battalion, being
the first to be examined.
It was rumored about camp yester
day that the regiment would go on a
hike, and one of the officers stated
that there would be no hikes until
the regiment was equipped, and when
that was accomplished the troops
would move south
Another said that the regiment
would go by way of St. Louis, wheth
er it stopped there or not.
The quartermaster's department of
each company- is being inspected to
day and this will conclude the work
preceding the new issue of equipment
Just arrived.
Captain Treacy, U. S. A., has ar
rived here to act as new mustering of
ficer to take the place of Major Tay
lor, who has been ordered to join his
regiment at El Paso.
Major Taylor is a former Fargo
resident, graduating from West Point
third in his. class, giving him an ap
pointment to the engineering corps,
the highest branch of service in the
United States army.
REVENUE BILL BEFORE HOUSE.
Representative Kitehln Says Discus
sion May Necessitate Night
Sessions.
Washington, July 5.—House dem
ocrats and republicans alike were pre
paring for a three days' discussion,
beginning Thursday, of the general
revenue bill. Thfc-measure will be
taken up undea-xjMJecial rule calling
fbr a final vote Wkors! SuJiofinlnw
Saturday.
adjournment
Representative Claude Kltchin,
chairman of the ways and means com
mittee, who will pilot the bill through
the house, predicted it would com
mand considerable republican support.
He said night sessions would be held
if necessary.
HOSPITALS PREPARED.
Eagle PaBS, Texas., July 5.—The
names of several hundred persons
who have enrolled as members of the
local chapter of the American Red
Cross were forwarded to Washington
today- The city has appropriated
116,000 for a base hospital-here and
work will begin on the building to
morrow. Offers were made at a mass
meeting to turn over schoolhouses and
other public buildings to the govern
ment for use as hospitals in case of
war.
ROBBERS SHOOT
EOURPBtSONS
Rob Kansas Bank of $2,400
—Woman Aids the
Bandits.
St. Marys, Kas., July 5.—Four per
sons were shot, one probably fatally,
by robbers who escaped after steal
ing (2,400 from St. Mary's State bank
early this morning. The robbers were
aided by a woman, witnesses said,
who guarded the street leading to the
bank, while her three men compan
ions wrecked the safe.
ENGLISH AFTER
MANY AEROPLANES
London, July 6.—Major Baird, rep
resentative of the aerial committee,
in the house of commons yesterday,
said that the demand for flying ma*
chines at the front was enormous.
Recently as many as 24 flew across
to the field of operations in one day,
he added, in illustration of this de
mand and the manner in which it
was being met.
In admitting that in one case an
airman had taken a British machine
by mistake to a German hangar in
Relglum, Major Baird said the Ger
mans inadvertently had presented the
British with a brand new Fokker re
cently.
BOAMANGES
OtAM POLICY
Will Leave Grading Plans
Up to Incoming Members
of Commission.
(Herald Special Service.
Fargo, N. D.-—The North Dakota
railway commission meeting here to
day, likely will announce a policy of
abandoning its proposed change in
grain grading to conform with the re
ports made recently by E. F. Ladd,
president of the Agricultural College.
The proposed state grain grading
regulatings would have compelled
higher payments for lower grades of
wheat, on the theory that such low
grades of wheat are worth more for
milling purposes than the present
standard of prices governing the mar
ket would indicate. In other words,
low grades are for milling purposes,
but slightly less valuable than high
grades, the spread in price being far
out of proportion.
The commission's changed policy
results from its failure of renomlna
tlon in the last election. It will place
the whole problem before the incom
ing board.
FIRE CRACKERS
CAUSE BAD FlSE
(Herald 8peclal Service.
Bismarck, N. D.—Only two acci
dents caused by fireworks marred the
Fourth in Northwestern Dakota. Mrs.
Peter Aller, of Bismarck, was severe
ly burned, when she lit a giant fire
cracker.
The Powers Livery, at Beach, was
burned to the ground. Fire crackers
ignited the hay. All of the horses
were rescued. The damage was S4,
000.
AMERICANS HONORED
IN PARIS YESTERDAY
Paris, July 5.—Independence day
was observed in Paris with a series
of ceremonies beginning with a me
morial service for Corporal Victor
Chapman of New York, who recently
was killed in an aerial engagement,
and followed by the placing of
wreaths on the tomb of Lafayette and
on the Washington and Franklin
monuments.
The memorial service, held at the
American church, was attended by
many members of the American col
ony, including officials of the embassy
and consulate staffs and by three of
Corporal Chapman's countrymen in
the Franco-American squadron. Lieu
tenant William K. Thaw of Pitts
burgh, Sergeant Elliott C. Cowdln of
New York, and Sergeant Norman
Prince of Boston and Captain The
nault, a French officer, of the squa
dron, also were present.
"DESERTION," SATS PARKER.
New Orleans, July 5.—In a tele
gram sent yesterday to a district con
gressional committee of the progres
sive party in Louisiana, John M.
to continue the fight against the dem
ocrats and to stand by their convic
tions "unterrifled by desertion and
fearless of any opposition."
PATRIOTIC WOMEN VOLUNTEER SERVICES TO THE RED CROSS:
MAKE BANDAGES FOR FIGHTING MEN BELOW THE RIO GRANDE
Lk_
Poblte-spiiitei www ia 1M Craaa workroom making bandages for
Sines the issuance of the order calling the national guard Into the fede ral service large numbers of women
have volunteered their servioes to the Bed Cross in all the principal cities of ths country. These wofnea
many hours a day making bandages aad other necessaries for field hospital work and do not seem to tire of
their tasks. Amopg the women engaged in this work are many prominent .society debutantes and matrons who
wish to do their bit. to aid the fighting men on and beyond the R|o Gran da.
.. ..
•••ft-lhw n* KTH-'ft
IT ii'd.
O
ANGUmtENCH FORCESSLOWLY ARE
PMC FOR SECOND KG DRIVE
AGAKST TEUTONS Jl WEST
msw ittiei
limns
their line and are stubbornly contest
ing every yard of the British advance.
Torrential rains yesterday, howev
er. hampered the offensive operations
and the British action was confined
mostly to consolidating the ground
already won.
to
Parker, the progressive vice prestoen- crease in the violence of the German varian forces in the region of Baran
tial nominee^ urged the progressives attacks in the Verdun region. ovichi, where the Russians have
oenHa.
*ri^sv
EVENING
EDITION
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
I*S«SJMIS)U(II«»»ms
mms it an
Joffre's Men Have Made Sweeping Advances Near SommJ
—Hurl Germans Back in Open Formations—!
Russians are Pressing Ahead in the East
GERMAN LOSSES ESTIMATED AT 60,000.
Press Camp in France, July 5.—At noon the total
number of prisoners taken thus far in the Anglo-French
offensive probably reached 15,000. Judging from these
figures the German losses, as a whole, are estimated here!
as to have been at least 60,000.
London, July 5.—The pressure of the Entente Allies on the oen
tral powers continues without abatement, ami while nowhere any
great amount of territory been recovered, great stragetic gains are
claimed on the western, eastern and Italian fronts.
So far as the western front Is concerned, the first phase of the
Anglo-French offensive is thought to be Bearing an end. Both north
and south of tlie Somme, the French and British are engaged In or
ganizing the positions captured since Saturday.
The French, having taken all the German defensive positions
south of Uie Somme, notwithstanding they were In an open country,
the cavalry, which has been long idle, Is being employed for patrol
work.
The next objective of the French in this region Is the village of
Bar-Iem, the junction point of the three highways leading to the
Somme south of Peromne.
If this point is gained the French will be in a position to
the bridgeheads opposite Peronne, where the Germans are strengthen
ing.
North of the river, the Anglo-French advance Is slower, on ac
count of the fact that the Germans have massed between the river
Hebuterne, the bulk of 20 divisions, which originally held t.M« front
and of reserves they since have brought up.
After the ground gained has been concentrated, it is expected
that artillery preparation for a second big thrust will be
The Italians, after regaining territory in the Trentlno, are going
to their original plan, and attacking along the lower iBonzo, where they
gained some successes.
Important news comes from Petrograd*
The Russian advance guards on General Letebitsy's «m»»M left
engaged with the Austrian rear guards on the spurs of ».!»« Car
pathians, and unofficial reports even say the Cossacks have HHfw
raiding Hungary.
HBAXTT. FIGHTING CONnXTTBS.
Ixmdon, July 5^—Heavy lighting continued throughout the nlgfa^
In the.jneighborhood of Ancrevand the Somme," says the official state
ment, issued at 1 P- i^jwhich "^iWfcs (lven out today. '"We made fur
ther progress at certain important points."
"German artillery has been active in certain sectors. in the
neighborhood of Thlepval. two determined attacks on our new trench
es were beaten off with loss to the enemy.
"There were no important developments on the rest of our from."
GERMAN" COUNTER- ATTACK REPULSED.
Condon. July 5.-—Rueter dispatch from the western front says the
Germans have made a counter-a«a ck on the new British positions at
Thlepval. after a heavy bombardment, but that it easily was repulsed.
Prisoners are quoted as stating that German units are being rushed
to the Somme front as far as Verdun to the east and Lens to the
north.
The dispatch adds that the German officer who surrendered 150
men in a body said he thought they would be more use alive in Ger
many after the war than dead.
FRENCH CAPTURE GERMAN TRENCHES.
Paris, July 5.—The French captured a line of German trenchea
east of Curlu. the war office announced today. They »iw captured
Sormont farm, facing Clery.
The Frenoh resumed the offensive during the night on both «I(Vm
of the Somme. South of the Somme they made further progress to
ward the river, particularly at Sormont Farm. This position is on the
left hank opposite Clery.
The number of prisoners taken thus far exceeds 9,000. The num
ber of cannon captured has not been ascertained.
Little Change Recorded. I tion on the interior lines enabled,
London. July 5.—The two British them to hold throughout the long!
official dispatches Issued yesterday course of the war. Moreover, in com
record little change in the situation' menting on the enormous resources
on the British front. They show that *n munitions and war material, the
the Germans have brought up strong entente allies have been able to pile
reinforcements from other parts of!
UP
The French have captured two
more villages and are on good roads An entirely new offensive has been
Feronne. But there is yet no de- opened against Prince Leopold's Ba-
Dispatches from German war cor- pierced the German lines at two
respondents indicate the realisation places while the Italians are main
I£l 1.
Initiative, which their favorable posi- entire front.
1
'v
through the wearying months of
preparation they equally realize that
a profound change has occurred in
the relations of the belligerents.
Russians Attack.
Simultaneously with the opening
of the Anglo-French offensive the
Russian armies are again attacking
on the whole length of their front.
powers are losing the taining strong pressure along their
(i
The British newspapers consider
that these events prove that the mo
ment of "the great squeeze" has at
last arrived ,and not since the war
began have hopes run so high. Nev
ertheless almost every British corre
spondent on the western front warns
against being over sanguine, and daily
reiterates that the progress must
necessarily be slow and methodical.
Up to the present, the Anglo
French captures In the battle of ths
Somme total more than 14,000 pris
oners, twelve heavy guns and 28 Held
guns. This booty represents for the
men In the strset a very satisfactory
result of a little over three daya
lighting.
The battle rages on such an extend
ed front that the correspondents find
difficulty in sifting the main currents
of the operations.
The Associated Press correspond
ent, in a pregnant phrase, records
what is perhaps one of the most sig
nificant features, when he notes "the
amazing change from trench-tried
warfare to that of an army in pro
gress." The same striking feature
comes out in an interesting review of
the operations which the Assoc la tad
Press has Obtained in an interview
with Major General F. B. Maurice,
who predicts an immediate develop
ment south of the Somme, where he
says, the lighting now is in open field
formation.
All unofficial dispatches speak ew- «-...
fldeptly of the satisfactory situation
on the British front, a notable Inci
dent being the surrender of a com
plete Prussian Infantry
with officers to the British near Wi
court. German prisoners are bsgia»
nlng to arrive In England, l.tOO last
ed at Southampton today.
In the faoe of the
en the western front, the Kusm
sratlons to some have
lost sight of bat they «re off
