Crossville Chronicle.
THE TENNESSEE TIMES (CONSOLIDATED
OR088VILLE OHRONIOLI I '
VOL. XXX. CROSSVILLE. TENNESSEE. WEDNESDAY. JULY 5. 1916. NO. 27
EDITOR VISITS WYATT FARM.
Delightful Day Passed Among Kind and
Hospitable People.
The editor had the pleasure of visit
ing tbe farm of John Q. Wyatt, eight
miles south of town, Sunday, To say
that Mr. Wyatt has one of the best and
most successfully conducted farms in
the county is no exaggeration, tie has
140 acres enclosed and 100 acres of it
under cultivation.
tie has as a tenant D. W. Kearley,
who is one of the best farmers in the
county. Mr. Kearley has clearly dem
onstrated his ability as a farmer by the
work he has done. All crops are in a
splendid state of culivtion and we found
by talking with him that ne is a firm
believer in careful crop rotation, grow
ing of legu'Jies, deep plowing and
shallow cultivation and turning under
green crops. His methoda are in keep
ing with the most approved methods
advocated by the leading agricalturiats
of the country, tie does not think he
knows all about farming by any means,
but realizes that he has learned a few
of the prime features of successful
farming, but is glad of any information
that will improve on what he has
learned.
Never has it been our pleasure to go
over a farm where every crop was so
clean and in so good a state of cultiva
tion, fences in such good order and
every detail of the farm work so care
fully looked after as is the case with
Mr. Keariey on the Wyatt atrm.
Mr. Kearley has a most splendid as
set in five sturdy boys, all of whom
are quiet, industrious and energetic
farmers who have a real love for farm
Work. All in all he has a most admir
able family and all love and enjoy farm
work and never are so hap; y as when
tilling the soil and producing good
crops, tie has ?5 head of cattle, 40
head of hogs, two span of mules along
with a generous supply of modern farm
tools.
Mr. Kearley showed us a mule team
that he began working when they were
only ten months old and with which he
made a crop and has been working
them every season since. They are
now live years old, are splendid ani
mals, well kept and show no evidences
of ever having been stunted by over
work or abuse.
Mr. Kearley formerly owned a small
farm in Sequatchie valley but sold it
and moved to the mountain to try his
band with the view to purchasing land
and making a farm in his notion. The
high price of land in the valley pre
vented him from securing such a farm
as he wished to own. His expnence
thus far has fully convinced him that a
splendid farm can be readily developed
here on the mountain when proper
methods are employed.
Mr. Wyatt realizes what a capable
man he has and for that reason is giv
ing Mr. Kearley such a cropping chance
'that he is noi. likely to purchase land
for a year or two at least. Such
farmers as Mr. Kearley and such fam
ilies as the one he has are a very de
Birable asset for any county and we
were much gratified to hear him de
clare his faith in this section and his
determination to own a farm of his
own within a few years.
The kindness and generous hospital
ity shown us by Mr. Kearley and iami
ly assured us that we were heartily
welcome to their pleasant home. It is
rare indeed that we have passed a more
pleasant day than we did Sunday for
the people were overflowing with kind
ness and they bad such splendid results
to show tor their etforts that the day
passed pleasantly and all too quickly.
WAR SITUATION.
War has nt been declared yet be
tween Mexico and Uncle Sam, but
both countries are massing troops near
the border and the feeling prevails that
war is sure to come soon.
In Europe the English and French
have at last begun their great drive
and have taken the first line trencher
of tne Germans at many points and
have forced the Germans back five
miles at one point while the drive con
tinues unabated. The Russians and
Italian", are also pressing the fightng
On their fronts. The Germans claim
nothing ot much importanc has been
famed as yet, but tbe allies say the
gains are very important.
PROVED FATAL
The Six-Year-Old Son of Mr. and Mrs.
R. R. Dunbar Died Saturday.
,k Marion, the little six-year-old son of
Mr. and Mrs. R. K. Dunbar died Satur
day afternoon at three o'clock from
tumor on the brain. The remains were
laid to rest in the cemetery here Sun
day afternoon attended by relatives
and many sympathizmg friends. Kev.
W. C. Martin conuducted the funeral
services in the Congregational church.
For several weeks the child had been
confined to the bed witn what the doc
tors pronounced tumor on the brain
and they stated some three weeks ago
that the child could not recover. Much
to the surprise and gratification of all
the child seemed to improve for about
two weeks. Friday he took a turn for
the worse and passed away Saturday
afernoon. Burial was delayed until
late. Sunday afternoon on account of
getting a casket from Nashville.
Sympathetic neighbors and friends
lent all possible aid during the sick
ness and gave such comfort as they
were able in the last sad rites.
SHOT AT ROCKWOOD.
Charles Ket-:hersia, of Spring City,
was shot by a negro in Rockwood, Sat
urday, at 11 :30 p. m. Davidson South
ard, of Crossville, was in a car with
Ketchersid and th y were on their way
to the Tennessee i entral depot when
the engine died on leut near where a
nergo dance was j., ng on. Ihe negro
came up to them end asked for whis
key, evidently I:. inking they were
bootleggers. Tbe negro became in
sulting and a fight followed. Ketcher
sid was shot with a Si all behind the
left ear and the ball lodged below tne
eye, Mr Southard also received a
scalp wound. Ketchersid is expected
to recover.
IF YOU WANT QUICK RELIEF.
Men and women who teel their health
tailing because of weak, overworked or
disordered kidneys will be pleased to
know that Foley Kidney Fills are
prompt in action and give quids results
in the relief ot rheumatism, sore mus
cles, ackhing joints, backache, pains in
side, and sleep disturbing bladder
troubles. For sale by Reed & Bur
nett. CLAIMED DY TYPHOID.
H. C. Bandy Died of That Dread Disease
Last Wednesday,
Hardly had the Chronicle been deliv
ered to our people telling of the ser
ious sickness of H. C. Bandy with ty
phoid until his spirit had been borne
away and the public was called to
deeply regret the loss of an excellent
citizen.
He died at noon Wednesday after be
ing confined to his bed about ten days.
Previous to taking his be:! he had been
complaining for nearly two weeks and
the feeling now is that he had what is
termed "walking typhoid' for some
time previous to taking his bet;.
The deceased was 33 years of age, a
barber by trade and was recognized as
one of our most respected citizens.
He was alderman at the time of his
death and had been several times elect
ed as one ot the board. He was pro
gressive and stood unflinchingly for
every movement that pert med to
morals and goo I behaviour.
The deceased leaves a wife and two
children, a boy and a girl, both small.
He was carrying $2,100 in life insur
ance. The funeral was conducted at the M.
(E. Church Thursday afternoon led by
Rev. W. C. Marfn andassisted by
Kev. L. A. Hurst The church was
crowded to its fu'1 seating eapaeitay
while numbers of persons were unable
to enter the building. Rev. Martin
spoke very feelingly of the deceased
and paid a high tribute to his character
and worth as a citizen. The remains
were interred in the cemetery here at
tended by a large concourse of people.
Aside from friends residing here
those present from a distance were :
Mrs. W. E. Compton, Daniel Boone,
Ky. ; Mrs. Jas Benefield, Altainouit;
Mrs. W. N. Burnett, Knoxville; Miss
Olive Bandy, Elmwood, 111.
MISS NORRIS WINNER
Gets the $150 Talking Machine, Miss
Cline Wins ihe $50 Diamond Ring,
Miss Haley and Mrs. Thomp
son Get Gold Watches
The Chronicle Subscription Contest
is over, the prizes have been awarded
to the winners and tbe Chronicle man
ager is well satisfied with the results
of the contest. While it did not prove
a big monetary success, the outcome is
very satisfactory. Considerable money
was taken in. our subscription list was
increased a few hundred and we are
sure every contestant was treated with
entire fairness. We know of no com
plaints and feel that all are satisfied
with the outcome. Naturally every
contestanat wanted to win the capital
prize, but of course only one could get
it. That it went to a worthy young
lady we feel sure all will agree.
The talking machine was no cheap or
worthless article but was a musical in
strument that any person might be
glad to have in his home.
The diamond ring was cheap at the
price placed on it fifty dollars and
such an article as any lady would prize
highly for both its worth and beauty.
The watches were Elgin works in 20
year gold guaranteed cases, they could
be worn either as a bracelet watch or
be detached and worn as desired. They
will prove a useful as well as beautiful
ornament.
The gentlemen chosen to count the
votes Cashier J. S. Reed, E. S. Bur
nett and Sampson DeKossett the edi
tor of the Chronicle, Mr. C. F. Hawk
ins and a few spectators, .net in the
store of the Cumberland Mercantile
Company at 7:30 Thursday evening and
with the useot the adding machine be
longing to the bank the votes of the
four contestants that were entitled to
prizes were soon counted. The vote
stood :
Miss Mattie Norris 117,550
Miss lone Cline 111,350
Miss Violet Haley 62,200
Mrs. Bertha Thompson 53,550
f'he talking machine was shipped to
Miss Norris at Westel Friday, all car
riage chargf s paid, and was received
by her saf. ly. The ring was sent to
Miss Cline at Crab Orchard. The two
watches w;re delivered to the winners
and all were pleased.
To those who assisted the several
contestants we extend the thanks of
the Chronicle manager. It any person
fesls they have been treated unfairly
in any way we shall be glad to have
them make known the trouble and we
will take pleasure in making all amends
possible, if their ca;e is a meritorious
one.
TROUBLE AT GRAB ORCHARD.
Geo. Ferguson Shoots Jas. McCullough
and Gets Badly Beaten Up.
Sunday George Ferguson went to the
home of his father-in-law, Jas. Mc
Cullough, Crab Orchard, and while un
der the influence of whiskev trouble
arose between them. McCullough
knocked Ferguson down after Ferguson
had called him (McCullough) a liar.
Ferguson began shooting at McCul
lough after he got up and fired five
times. One ball fmn a 38 pistol slip
ped of!' a finger for McCullough and
one went tlnough.liis thigh penetrating j
the bone and v' removed by Dr. W.
K. McCauiy. The other shots went
wild.
McCullough went after Ferguson
while he ,was shooting, knocked him
down and beat hm up very badly.
Officers arrested them Tuesday and
Ferguson was bound to court in the
sum of $25C for carrying a pietol and
$1,500 on the charge ot asasult with
intent to kiK.
HETTY GREEN DEAD.
Hetty Green, said to be the wealth
iest woman in the world, did at her
home in New York City Monday. Her
estate is estimated at from 120,000,000
to $100,000,00.
ENJOYED PLAY OF REAL LIFE
Women Enthusiastic Over Acts Which
No Doubt Were Thoroughly Fa
miliar to Them.
Robert W. Chambers, the novelist,
aid at the Century club in New York:
"We novelists have got to remember
that the public, while claiming stout
ly to like truth and realism, really
likes really likes well, here's a
story:
"Two women stood in a queue wait
ing to get in to see a melodrama.
"This'll be a gooa show,' said the
first woman. 'Life, you know. Real
life. Nothln' overdone.'
" 'Yes, I like life, too,' said the other
woman. I dont want to be put to
sleep, though. Still, I can't stand
nothin' far-fetched.'
" 'Same here,' said the first woman.
"And then they went in and sat
through five acts wherein the hero
killed thirty-six Kafirs with his naked
hand, found a diamond as big as a
duck's egg, smashed with his revolver
from a mile away the bottle of poison
that the beautiful heroine was about
to swallow rather than yield to the
blandishments of the villain, and final
ly killed the latter in an aeroplane
duel, slightly off stage, inheriting later
an unexpected dukedom, and so forth
and so on.
"When the curtain fell to the sound
of wedding bells the two women looked
at each other with glistening eyes.
'"Grand, wasn't it?' said the first.
'Life, real life, eh?'
" 'You bet,' said the second. 'That's
life, that is. Nothin' far-fetched or
overdone.' "
WOMAN'S PROGRESS GOES ON
Pittsburgh Ward's Board of School
Visitors Is for the Time Being
Entirely Feminine.
A news item in the Leader provides
striking evidence of woman's progress.
Announcement was made that a whole
board of school visitors in the Twenty
sixth ward will consist of women.
It has been only a few years since
the candidacy of the late Miss Kate
McKnight for a seat on an Allegheny
school board attracted state-wide at
tention. But within a short period thp
men of a city ward deemed it wise
and to the best interest of tho citizens
to fill a board of visitors with women.
The wisdom exhibited by tho men in
giving women an opportunity to exer
cise their intelligence in governing tho
public schools is a wholesome sign.
Women are the natural guardians of
children. They have charge of them
in their homes. Their experienced
hands will make a favorable impres
sion on the schoolroom.
Women are already represented on
the board of education. Their pres
ence there is fixed. Their position
will not be changed unless their in
fluence is enlarged. Pittsburgh
Leader.
The Fruitful Days.
Now comes the season of accom
plishment. Summer's light and heat
have long ago suffused those buildings
with which we wrap ourselves against
tho Influences of the natural world and
havo laid up even in tho feeblest if us
some store of energy, some additional
gift of fife. Whether wo see it or not,
we are ready now, if ever, against tho j
darkness of winter when the tides of
being are low and its wheels turn slow- ;
ly. Wo have before us tho example J
and inspiration of tho earth's mighty
harvest, the warning of these shorter i
days, and tho spur of cooler weather, i
Those who teach know that the sue-
cess of their year's work depends on j
the drive of the next four months.
Those who direct tho enterprises of
trade and manufacture know that thin
is the time to realize what has long
been planned. If you purroso to learn
anything or do anything better than
in the past, now is tho hour for your
beginning, the beneficent strength of
things is on your side, and the course ;
of the world runs with yours. The j
past is a help, but not a hindrance, and j
the way is clear toward whatever good j
may be your goal. Collier's Weekly
Information.
"What does it mean," asked Willie,
looking up from his history lesson
"when it says that tho Roman neither
Uked nor gave quarter?"
"Why er you see, they had a dif
ferent system of currency in those
days," replied his father, "and so, of
course, they didn't call them quarters.
They called them sesterces or dino
saurii, or something like that"
TAX DODGERS
Most Are in the Cities But Cannot Now
Be Reached.
During the past decade the average
growth in population ot all southern
states, Tennessee excluded, was twen
ty per cent, while ours was only eight
per cent. In other words our neigh
boring states are glowing two and one
half times as rapidly as Tennessee; and
this falling behind on our part is
wholly unjustifiable, either in the light
of our own glorious past, or in view of
Tennessee's geographical position and
unrivaled natural resources.
We must put a stop to it.
But the condition named is not all
nor the worst. While our state as a
whole showed eight per cent population
increase, in ten years, our agricultural
population only increased three and
one-halt per cent, and many of the
state's finest agricultural counties
shuv ed an actual decrease.
This hurts the value of every acre of
land in the state.
And why is our rural population
practically at a stand still' It former
ly grew. One reason is that under our
antiquated Constitution and tax laws,
only visible property is taxed ; and a!l
the property ot the farmer is in plain
view of the assessor. He cannot hide
a dollar of it; he cannot escape the tax
gatherer. On the other hand, in the
towns and cities of the state there are
millions of invisible property that pays
not a penny of taxes, and never will
until we amend our Constitution and
bring our tax laws abreast the times.
it is therefore highly important that
every farmer, a?id every other man
who has tre good of ihif state at heart,
vote August 3rd for a Constitutional
Convention, and let ns make our dear
old Commonwealm progressive, up-to-date
and the most desirable state in
the Union in which to live.
J. L. McWborter, Fresident,
Tennessee Constitutional Convention
League, Nashville, Tenn.
NICHOLAS HOUSE SOLD
Gus Hinch Buys H and Lease to Volner
Hamby, Former Owner.
Last week the Nicholas House, the
leading hotel in town, was bought by
Gus Hinch from G. A. Haley tor
$5,000: $1,000 being paid in cash and
the remainder in notes or assumed ob
ligations. The property was rented to
Volner Hamby, who took possession
Friday. Mr. Haley and family moved
into the Volner Hamby residence on
Mam Stieet.
A few years ago Volner Hamby
bought the Nicholas House property
from J. H. Beeson for $6,00U and paid
$2,000 down. After conducting it for
some months he sold it to G. A. Halev,
who was then trustee of the county.
It recently became known that Mr.
Haley wanted to sell the property, not
because it was not a profitab e invest
ment, but because the hardship of look
ing after and managing it was more
than he cared to carry longer.
John Q. Burnett acted as the selling
agent between Mr. Hinch and Mr.
Haley. Mr. Hamby has had consider
able exparience in the hotel business
and will he found a very genial t.nd ac
comodating host. For the past two or
three years Mr. Hamby has bee con
ducting a resttumct, which he truns
frered to T. M. Rector, who has also
had considerable experience in conduct
ing a letting house. At present Mr.
Hector is running a bakery supplying
our town with an excellent quality of
bread. He will continue the b kery
and conduct the restaurant, with the
assistance st his brother, Komeo,
It is not known what iir. bit ley will
o'o but it is rumored that lie will en
gage 'n either the grocery or ge era
merchandise business as be has two
grown sors who would be amply able
to render any needed assistance.
At the Chronicle office you can get
pen tablets, examination tablets,
fountain pen ink in five and ten cent
bottles, pocket note books, stenog
rapher's note books, C'ane s fine sta
tionery in two-quire boxes and other
stationery such as you do not find else
where in this county.
