I Today's Metal Prices ' TIva Tiv SLfvV'VvXw'vX " 1 4 P. ffl. CITY EDITION I
m lead, $6.90; spelter, $10.75; copper, - T U- 7, LV T -- T" Utah: - Tonight and Thursday Gen- 'JM
tif S26.0029.0u. M T " erally Fair; Warmer in South Por- M
H I . fr tion. M
1 I FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. ' : 1
11 F0rty'8fXth YearNo' 160' Price Five Cent.. OGDEN CITY, UTAH, WEDNESDAY EVENING, JULY 5, 1916. : Entered a, Second Class Matter at th. Po.tafflce, Coder,, Utah. H
I Allied Forces Gaining On All Fronts I
Carranza Note Evades Vital Point I
j GERMANS BEING PUSHED BACK
! YARD BY YARD BY THE ALLIES
I Both French and British Making Progress Total Prisoners
I Taken, Fifteen Thousand German Aggregate Losses '
I Not Less Than Sixty Thousand Pounding on Ver-
I dun Lines Continues Germans Repair Breach
I in Eastern Lines But Russians Immediate-
I Iy Return for Attack Italians Keep
I Strong Pressure on Austrian r '.
I Front.
I ..
1 1 Berlin, July 5, via London, 4:44 p. m. Russian troops
I , are 'again attacking the German line from Zerin to the region
I southeast of Baranovichi, in Luthuania says the German of-
I ficial statement given out today. Very stubborn hand to hand
I fighting is in progress, the announcement adds, and the Rus-
I sians have either been repulsed or driven back from the places
I where they had broken into the German lines. The heaviest
I losses, it is said, were sustained by the Russians.
I . Rome, July 5, via London, 6:32 p. m. New successes!
I have been won by the Italians in their offensive in the Trentino,
I the war office announced today. They have occupied the
I summit of Monte Corno, northwest of the Pasubio and cap-
I ; tured the crest of Monte Sellugio.
I The official statement says.
I "Between the Adige and the Brenta
I the enemy is making every effort to
I contest our advance and has attempt-
ed to counter nttack at various points.
I In the Adige valley during the night
I of July 3 we repulsed an attack on
I . the Monte Zugna trenches.
I "Yesterday several attempts of our
I Alpine troops reached the summit of
I : Monte Corno northwest of the Pasu-
I bio.
I , "In the upper Astico basin In spite
I of difficulties and the enemy's resist-
I ance, we captured the crest of Monte
I Selumnlo and advanced toward Bio
I Fereddo and the Astico.
"In the Cam pello. Valley near Maso
Beranta after intense artillery pre-
Iparatlon the enemy attacked our posi
tions on Prima LuneU but was driven
with heavy loss leaving some prison
ers and three machine guns In our
hands.
"Along the Isonzo front the artillery
activity has increased. Fighting in
the Monfalcone sector has continued.
Rk: We took some prisoners, two machine
K, guns and a trench mortar."
I Yard by yard the Germans are be-
I lug pushed back by entente allies un-j
H der steady hammering of their often-,
H slve movement on the western front. (
New progress for both the French and
the British is reported by PariB and
H London today. .
Berlin today claims that the fight-
Ing of last night on the front of tn
allied offensive in the west did not
H result in serious impairment of the
H German position.
H The total of prisoners taken by tne
allies in the western offensive is un-
officially estimated at 15,000 and the
aggregate German losses as not less
H than sixty thousand.
In the Verdun region the Germans
apparently have not lessened their
pressure to any appreciable extent.
They still hold the Important Thlau-
H mont work. v-. in
On the eastern front the breach in
the German lines made m the Barano-
vichi region has been repaired, ac-
cording to Berlin, but the Russians re-
turned immediately to the attack after
having been driven out of the cap
M tured positions.
I London. July Tl2:30 P. -!?
sure of the entente allies on the cen-
tral powers continues without abate-
ment and while nowhere has any great
Amount of territory been recovered
great strategic gains, are claimed on
V the western, eastern and JtaHan
fronts. So far asthe western front Is
concerned, the first phase of tne
m AnrfSSfcnch offensive la thought to
M ti an end. Both north and
m south of the Somme the French ana
M SJtish are engaged in orniz ng posl
M . tions captured since Saturday The
m French, having taken all the German
M : defensive positions south of the
1 Somme, now are fighting in opon coun
M : trv and cavalry, which has been so
M I long idle, is being employed for patrol
9 t r Next French Objective.
M The next objective of the French In
I "' SScTTu.? ctir oeintf 3255
, the pSSch vlll bo in position to at
, i fabc0kFthenSrid"geheadS oPBlteeronne
' which the Germans are slrenginen
M North of the river, the Anglo-French
advance is slower on account o the
fact that the Germans ha ve t Pasjg
H , between the rivers and Hebuitone tae
IB hulk of the twenty-fif h division, hleh
originally held this front, and of the
K reserve they have since brought up
M After the ground gained nna J8
afl concentrated, it Is expected artniers
preparation for a second big inrtibi
pfiHl win be made.
Italians Attacking Lower Isonzo.
The Italians, after regaining terrl
toiy in the Trentino, are going back to
the original plan and are attacking
the lower Isonzo where they have
gained lesser successes.
Important Petrograd News.
Important news comes from Petro
grad. Advance guards on General
Letchltzky's extreme loft are engaged
with Austrian rear guards on the
spurs of the Carpathians, and unof
ficial reports even say Cossacks have
been raiding summarily. General
Letchltzky's right has opened a pos
sage in the direction of the stretch
of railway connecting the rear of the
entire Austrian front Kolomea-Stan-Islau-Lemberg
while the occupation
of Delatyn, for which the Russians
are making, would sever the com
munications of General von Bothmer's
army.
German Generals Arrive.
Both Field Marshal von Hindenburg
and Field Marshal von Mackensen are
reported to have arrived at Kovel to
direct operations designed to break
the Russians arc in Volhynia. The
latest official dispatch contain claims
of both sides to successes in this re
gion. Meanwhile the Balkans are attract
ing more attention than for some
time. Extraordinary rumors are being
reported and the victories of the en
tente are reported to have caused a
renewal of pro-entente politicians in
both Greece and Rumania.
Germans Surrender Force.
London, July 5, 1 51 a. m A Reuter
dispatch from the western front says
the Germans made a counter attack
on the new British positions at Thiep,
val, after a heavy bombardment, but
were easily repulsed. Prisoners are
quoted as having stated that German
units are being rushed to the Somme
front from as far as Verdun to the
east and Lens to the north.
According to this dispatch a German
officer who surrendered 150 men In
a body said he thought they would be
of more use alive In Germany after
the war than dead.
French Capture Trencheo.
Paris, July 5, 1158 a. m. The
French have captured a line of Ger
man trenches east of Curlu, the war
office announced today. They have
also captured Soromont farm facing
Clery. ,, ,
The TYench resumed the offensive
during the night on both sides of tho
Somme, South of the Somme they
made further progress toward the riv
er particularly at Sormont farm. This
position is on the left bank opposite
Clery All the reglonbetween the
farm and Hill 63 on the road leading
from Flaucourt to the Barleux is now
dominated by the French.
After a heavy bombardment the
Germans captured part of the village
of Belloy-en-Santerre, but the. French
quickly expelled them, taking the en
tire village. The Germans still hold
part of the town of Estres where se
Vere fighting is still in progress. Ger
man attacks on French positions there
were stopped by the French fire.
Nine Thousand Prisoners Taken.
The number of prisoners taken thus
far exceeds nine thousand. The nunv
her of cannon captured has not been
ascertained. On the Verdun front
heavy Ashting is still In progress.
wStrf the Mouse the .French repuls-
j otrnntr flprman attack in tno ib
ed a strong uenuu -Rant
Ion of Avocourt and Hill 304. bast
of the river there was a violent bom
, bardment of Thiaumont redoubt and
the Chepois sector.
1 The advance reported Indicates that
the French are moving eastward alon
: Se,Srth.rnkt rdS?nen?M
' rmbdenArgiXanch offensive In
Plcardy. Clery, the most advanced
point mentioned is Tour and a. half
miles northwest of Peronne.
French Official Statement.
The text of the statement says:
"North of the Somme wc have re
sumed our offensive action and occu
pied last night a line of German
trenches east of Curlu.
"South of the Somme our infantry
continuing successes in the region of
tho river -ve took possession of the
Sormont farm on the left bank oppo
site Clery. All the region to the
south lying between this farm and
Hill 63 on the road which runs be
tween Flaucourt and Barleux is in
our possession.
"After an Intense bombardment, tho
German army last night attacked Be
loy-en-Santerre and were able to occu
py for an instant the eastern part of
this village, but a counter attack
brought tho entire village back into
our possession. The Germans are
still holding their positions in a part
of the village of Estres, where the
fighting has been very spirited. Every
counter attack against our positions
has been broken by our fire.
Good Prlo8ners Taken.
"The total number of able bodied
prisoners taken by us up to the pres
ent time exceeds li,000. The exact
number of cannons captured is not
known. In this connection it may be
said that our army corps operating
south of the Somme estimates its cap
tures at thirty pieces of artillery.
"On the left bank of the Meuse an
attack of the enemj upon the redoubt
of Avocourt was completely repulsed
by the fire of our machine guns
"Between the region of Avocourt
and Hill 30 the Germans have dellv.
ered a strong attack. In spite of the
use in great quantities of , flaming
liquids by the enemy this attack re
sulted in failure and cost our assail
ants heavy losses.
"On the right bank of the Meuse
the bombardment is continuing with
great violence in tho region of the
Thiamont work and in the Chenois
sector." I
London, July 5. 5:16 p. m "Heavy
fighting continued throughout the
night in the neighborhood of the An
ere and the Somme," says an official
statement timed 1 p. m. which was
given out here today. "We made fur
ther progress at certain important
points.
"German artillery has been active
in certain sectors. In the neighbor
hood of Theipval two determined at
tacks on our new tienches were beaten
off with loss to the enemy.
"There were no important develop
ments on the rest of our front."
The British have taken eleven guns
The relatively small number captured
Is due to the fact that the Germans
In anticipation of the attack withdrew
their guns to longer ranges.
It is reported by prisoners that
the Germans are sending in reserves
hastily from many points on the west
ern front.
A subsequent official statement
timed at five p. m. says:
"Hand to hand fighting and bombing
continued between the Ancrc and the
Somme. Five hundred more prisoners
have been takn by ub since the num
ber last reported."
Submarine Is Attacked.
Berlin, July 5. By Wireless to
Sayville. An unprovoked attack on a
Teutonic submarine by a steamship is
reported in an announcement given
out by the admiralty today as follows-
"A submarine of the central powers
recently returned from the Medlter
ranean and reported that on the even
ing of May 27 while east of the
Balearic Islands It was shelled by a
large steamer of unknown nationality
at a range of about 10,000 meters.
The steamer had not been stopped
by the submarine. No damage was
dbne to the submarine."
Violent Fight With Allies.
Berlin, July 5. via London, 4 45 p.
m Violent fighting between tho Ger
mans and entente allies on both sides
of the Somme river has been continu
ous since last night, says the official
statement Issued today by the German
army headquarters staff. Up to the
present time, the statement adds, the
allies have nowhere obtained serious
advantages.
French troops on the right bank of
the Meuse in the Verdun sector re
peatedly triod to advance with strong
forces against tho German positions
northwest of Thiaumont work but the
statement says tho attempts were
fruitless"
The text of the statement says:
"Western theater: From the coast
to the Ancre brook apart from minor
engagements between reconnoltering
detachments there was only lively ar
tillery and mine throwing activity.
"The number of unbounded English
prisoners taken during tho last few
days on the right bank of the Ancre
totalled 48 officers and 867 men.
"At the front on both sides of the
Somme violent fighting has continued
since last night. Up to the present
tho enemy nowhere havo obtained ser
Ioub advantages.
On the left bank of the Meuse there
were no special Incidents.
"On the right bonk of the rivor'the
French repeatedly attempted with
strong forces, but fruitlessly, to ad
vance against our positions northwest
of Thiaumont work."
"At many points northwest and
ORPET YORRIED AS TRIAL NEARS END
'
Will Orpet (photographed in Waukegan courtroom last week).
) Will Orpet, University of Wisconsin student on trial in Wankegan.
'- m.pfor the murder of Marion Lambert, is plainly worried as Kia trial
i nears its end. HiB own testimony seemed to make an unfavorable im
pression on the jury, which has not been wholly removed by the suoquent
introduction of evidence which has been very favorable to the defense.
southwest of Lutsk all attempts to
wrest from us the advantages which
we had obtained failed.
"Apart from heavy and sanguinary
losses the Russians lost in prisoners
110 officers and 1,339 men.
"The railway establishments and
troop camps in Lutsk were attacked
by our aviators
"Army group of General von Both
mer, south of Barysz, the enemy tem
porarily obtainod a foothold on a nar
row front in our first line We added
lo our successes southeast of Tlu
mach."
German Official Statement.
The text of the official statement
dealing with the fighting in Russia
says-
"Eastem theater The coast of
Courland was bombarded fruitlessly
from the sea.
"The operations of the enemy
against the front of Field "Marshal von
Hindenburg were continued especially
on both sides of tho Smorgon.
"Aeroplane squadrons dropped
bombs freely on the railroad stations
and troop camps near Minsk
"Army of Prince Leopold of Ba
varia The Russians have commenc
ed attacking the front from Zlrin to
a point southeast of Barnovichi. Hand
to hand fights in some places were
very stubborn. The Russians either
were repulsed or driven back from the
sections where they had broken Into
our lines. They suffered the heaviest
losses.
"Army group ot General von Lin-singen-
On both sides of Kostini
chowka, northeast of Chartorysk and
northwest of Kolkl, fighting continues.
The Russian detachments which pene
trated across the river Styr to the
west of Kolkl were attacked."
oo
DEADLY EPIDEMIC
TERRIFIES CITY
Thousands of Families Hasten
From New York in Fear of
Infantile Paralysis.
New York, July 5, Tho average of
one death an hour was maintained to
day by the infantile paralysis epidem
ic, twelve children dying of tho di
sease between ten o'clock lost night
and ten o'clock this morning in the
five boroughs of New York City.
During a period of 48 hours there
were 178 now cases reported of which
10 occurred in the last 24 hours in
or near the Beat of the epidemic in
Brooklyn.
In one Brooklyn hospital there were
225 children victims of tho diseaso
many of whom, It wna said, had only
alight chance of recovery.
The officers of the health depart
ment were beBieged by men, women
and children mostly foreigners, who.
torrified by reports of the sprad ot
the disease demanded medical ad
vice. It was necessary to summon
extra policemen to preserve order.
Since June 26 when the epidemic
took hold 702 cases of infantile par
alysis have been reported. Of this
number 130 died.
New York, July 5. The epidemio
of infantile paralysis here has hast
ened the departure of thousands of
families who usually leave town for
the summer. Estimates made by the
health department officials of the
number of children who have been
taken out of the city since the epi
demic became serious run as high as
60,000, but this is the season when
the city population is annually reduced
by the summer exodus.
Thus far five hundred and twenty
four cases of the disease have been
reported to the board of health and
one hundred and twenty-six persons
have died. It is most prevalent in tho
Italian quarter ot the southern sec
tion of Brooklyn where the paralysis
made its first appearance. High mor
tality continued to be the striking fea
ture of the epidemic and the death
toll has reached approximately that
of the entire epidemic or 1907 when
2,00 case's were reported
Many New Cases.
Although 59 new cases and 25 deaths
were reported yesterday, the health
commissioner said the outlook was
"a little encouraging" as there were
fewer cases than reported on some
previous days. Nevertheless he mado
requisition "for 50 additional field
nurses and 87 hospital nurses together
with domestic and orderlies to bo
employed In caring for the little pa
tients. The order of tho health com
missioner excluding children under
16 years of age from moving picture
shows went into effect today.
No Known Cure.
Phvsiclans say there is no known
positive treatment for the disease,, but
that the child's physique has to com
bat it with much aid as the doctors
can givo to lessen the probability of
permanent injury. If a strain is al.
lowed to fall on the effected limb
there is great danger of permanent
paralysis says the health commis
sioner. At least ton more children are re
ported to have died from tho diseaso
during the night. Dr. S. R. Blattlels,
Brooklyn health commissioner, said
today that the epidemic showed no
signs of abatement, especially in
Brooklvn, but that tho concerted ef
forts o'f 100 doctors and nurses had
been successful In keeping It from
spreading.
Major-General Wood ordered today
what Is virtually a quarantine of Gov
ernor's Island because of the epldomlc.
Physicians Watching Trains.
Chicago, July 5. Eighteen city phy
sicians under the direction of Dr.
John Dilrobertson, Chicago health
commissioner, are today watching in
coming trains from the east aB a pre
cautionary measure against the pos
sible development of an epidemic of
Infantile paralysis, such as said to be
prevalent In New York. It is planned
to keep up the Inspection of trains
for two weeks or more.
So far no cases were reported from
nny of the eastern trains An inspec
tion of the city resulted in one child
being placed under observation.
w
MEXICO IS WILLING T 0 ACT IN I
PRACTICAL WAY TO AVERT WAR I
Prefers Prompt Negotiations With United States Instead o H
Mediation De Facto Note Brief and Expresses Anxiety H
to Solve Present Conflict Over Border Troubles, But H
Still Declares American Troops on Mexican H
Soil Is Trespass on Sovereignty of Mexico. H
ORDERS TO TREVINO NOT REPUDIATED I
Washington, July 5. The crisis be
tween the United States and Mexico
virtually came to an end today when
a friendly and conciliatory note from
the de facto government was handed
to Secretary Lansing and promptly
communicated to President Wilson.
Formal statement of the attitude of
the Washington government must
await the president's action but there
is no doubt in the minds of officials
that the way has been opened for an
adjustment of the dispute as to the
border situation which brought the
two governments to the verge of war.
Secretary Lansing gave the Impres
sion however, that General Carrauza's
suggestion that there is no pending
question between the governments
which cannot be readily answered by
friendly negotiation meets with quick
sympathy here
Further Interchange of Views.
A further interchange of views is
expected to begin immediately looking
to joint efforts to curb border bandits
and other irresponsible agencies that
have worked lo embroil the two gov
ernments. High officials were much impressed
by the complete change In tone shown
in General Carranza's new note.
There seemed to be no disposition to
doubt that the United States on its
side would arrange for the early with
dmwal of the expeditionary force from
Mexico.
With more than 150,000 regulars and
national guardsmen soon to be avail
able for border patrol work the neces
sitv for keeping General Pershing's
columns any great distance beyond
the line has lessened, according to
manv officials. Ample forces are at
hand to control the situation even If
the Mexican troops now assembled in
northern Mexico are unable Immedi
ately to guarantee protection from
raiders.
Eliseo Arredondo, Mexican ambassa
dor designate, had this comment to
make .
"The note speaks for itself. It is
thoroughly explanatory and sets forth
exactly the situation with the United
States as viewed by the Mexican gov
ernment." Much Suspicion Removed.
American officials hope the com
plete absence of discourteous langu
age and unwarranted charges of bad
faith, such as have characterized the
last two Mexican notes, indicates that
much of the suspicion as to the pur
poses of the Washington government
has been removed from tho first
chiefs mind.
Copies of the note were sent by -Mr
Arredondo to all embassies and le
gations In Washington, particularly to
the Latin-American diplomats who
have sought previously to arrange for
mediation of the dispute.
The declaration that the Carranza
I government will seek every means to
1 avoid new Incidents to aggravate the
situation is regarded as a virtual with
drawal of the order given to General
Trevino to attack General Pershing's
men If they moved east, west or south
Carranza's Note Submitted.
Washington, July 5. The reply of
tho dofacto government of Mexico to
the United States, conciliatory in
terms and giving assurances of a
desire to reach a friendly adjustment
of tho difficulties between the two
countries was delivered at the stato
department today by a Mexican em
bassy attacks.
As soon as a translation of the
Spanish text wns made, It was sent
to the White House. Until Secretary
Lansing and President Wilson had an
opportunity to confer there will be no
formal comment. But some state dc
partment oftlcials did not attempt to
conceal the fact that they considered
the note most satisfacory and likclj
to remove all danger of war.
Free From Superfluous Language.
Brief and free from all superfluous
language of diplomacy, the communi
cation points to the release of the
American troops captured at Carrizal
as proof of the Mexican government's
sincere desire to avoid a conflict;
states as the outstanding issue tho
reasonable belief of the United States
that the insecurity of its frontier is
a source of difficulty and on the other
hand, the belief of the Mexican gov
ernment that the presence of Ameri
can troops in Mexico is a trespass
on that country's sovereignty and the
immediate cause of trouble. Assur
ances are given that the de facto gov.
ernment will employ every effort to
prevent incidents which would aggra
vate tho situation and the hopo is
expected that the United States will M
do likewise. ;
This is the reply of Carranza to the M
demand of the United States for a M
statement of his intentions. A speci- H
fie response to the question whether j
the Mexican government stands upon M
the instructions of Geiieral Trevino to j
attack American troops moving other J
than northward is evaded. H
Although the note is signed by Gen- H
oral Aguilar, foreign minister, offi- M
cials of the Mexican embassy believe ,
it was dictated by General Carranza iH
himself. M
Text of Mexican Note. ;
The text of the note as transmit- . H
ted by Eliseo Arredondo, the Mexican H
ambassador designate follows: j H
"Washington, D. C, July 4, 1916. j H
"Mr. Secretary: i M
"I have the honor to transmit in j M
continuation the text of a note I have jH
just received from my government H
with instructions to present to Your jH
Excellency: !
"Mr Secretary jl
" 'Referring to the notes of Juno H
20th and 25th, last, I have the honor H
to say to Your Excellency that tho H
immediate Telease of the Carrizal prjs- I JM
oners was a further proof of the sin. H
cerity of the desires of this govern- j H
ment to reach a pacific and satlsfac j H
tory train of 60 days. This govern , H
ment is anxious to solve the present lH
conflict and it would be unjust if its 'llH
attitude were misinterpreted. ill
" 'It was also the Mexican govern- lH
ment that earnestly suggested a plan !rH
for cantonments along the boundary I H
line during the conferences Ciuded H
Juarez and El Paso. This government Jj m
is disposed now, as it has always been, IH
to seek an immediate solution of tho H
two countries to-wit the American ji H
government thinks reasonably that the H
Insecurity of its frontier is a source JM
of difficulty and the Mexican gov- JM
ernment on its part believes that the ' IH
stav of American troops on Mexican H
territory aside from being a trespass H
on the sovereignty of Mexico is thd H
immediate cause of the conflicts. H
Therefore, the withdrawal of Ameri- H
can troops on one hand and the pro- j H
tection of the frontier on the other H
are the two essential problems, the jH
solution of wlilch must be the direct- H
ing object of the efforts of govern- H
ments. H
" 'The Mexican government Is will- 1 H
ing to consider in a quick and prac- H
tical way and prompted by a spirit ( H
of concord the remedies which should H
be applied to the present situation. H
" 'Several Latin-American countries H
have offered their friendly mediation H
to the Mexican government and the i H
latter has accepted it in principle. H
Therefore, the Mexican government j H
onlv awaits information that the gov- f H
ernment of the United States would be m
disposed to accept this mediation for m
the purpose mentioned above, or j H
whether it is still of the belief that j H
the same results may be attained by j m
means of direct negotiations between I m
both governments. H
Will Avoid All Trouble. j H
" Tn the meantime this government H
proposes to employ all efforts that H
may be at its disposal to avoid the H
recurrence of new incidents which H
may complicate and aggravate the sit- H
uation. At the samo time it hopes that H
tho American government on Its part H
may make use of all efforts to prevent H
also new acts of its military and civil H
authorities of tho frontier that might H
cauBC new complications. H
" 'I avail myself of this opportunity H
to reiterate to Your Excellency tho H
assurance of my most distinguished JH
consideration. 'M
(Slg"ed) "CAGOTLAR.-
"Having complied with the lnslruc- H
tions of my government It affords mo H
pleasure to reiterato to Your Excel- m
lency the assurance of my highest H
consideration. ,H
(Signed) "E. ARREDONDO."
More Americans Leave Mexico. H
Washington, July 5. Special Agent m
Rodgers informed the stato depart- fH
ment today that over 500 Americans jH
remained in Mexico City and all these H
probablv would stay in the city no H
matter what happened. He said sixty H
American citizens, the last desiring to H
leave, started for Vera Cruz on July 2. $ , H
Big Rush of Guards. H
San Antonio, Texas, July 5. Nota H
blc relaxation in the movement ot H
national guardsmen was pointed out ,fl
today at headquarters here. The first j H
big rush was nearlng completion. Al- ! H
most 15,0000 guardsmen aro either at H
border stations or on the way. H
