Conciliatory Tone of Mexican Reply
HARRISBURG iSlplll TELEGRAPH
LXXXV— No. 153
MEXICAN CRISIS IS
ENDED BY FRIENDLY
CARRANZA NOTE
All Danger of War Removed by Conciliatory Tone of Mexi
can First Chief's Answer; Points to Relief of Troopers
as Sincere Desire to Avoid Conflict
WILLING TO ACCEPT MEDIATION;
WANTS TO KNOW U. S. INTENTIONS
Offers to Consider in Quick and Practical Way Remedies
Which Should Be Applied to Adjust Differences;
Will Use Every Effort to Prevent Recurrence of Com
plicating Incidents
Washington, July s.—The crisis between the United States and
Mexico virtually came to an end to-day when a friendly and con
ciliatory note from the de facto government was handed to Secretary
Lansing and promptly communicated to President Wilson.
Formal statement of the attitude of the Washington govern
ment must await the President's action but there is no doubt in the
minds of officials that the way has opened for an amicable adjust
ment of the dispute as to the border situation which brought the
two governments to the verge of war.
Secretary Lansing himself would make no comment. He gave
the impression, however, that General Carranza's suggestion that
there is no pending question between the governments which can
not be readily answered by friendly negotiation meets with quick
sympathy here..
Mr. Lansing is known to share
President Wtlson's desire that hostil
ities be avoided if there is any pos
sible way to safeguard American bor
der interests without a clash with the
Carranza Government. The new Mex
ican communication so plainly indi
cates a similar desire, that a further
interchange of views is expected to
begin immediately looking to joint ef
forts to curb border bandits and other
irresponsible agencies that have work
ed to embroil the two governments.
Expect Early Withdrawal
High officials were much impressed
by the complete change in tone shown
in General Carranza's new note. It
was described by one as "more than
conciliatory." There seemed to be no
disposition to doubt that the United
States on its side would be willing to
arrange for the early withdrawal of
the expeditionary force from Mexico.
With more than 150,000 regulars
and national guardsmen soon to be
available for border patrol work, the
necessity for keeping General Persh
ings columns any great distance be
yond the line has lessened, according
to many officials.
Dictated by Carranza
While the communication bears the
signature of Foreign Minister Aguilar
it is believed both at the embassy and
the State Department it was person
ally dictated by General Carranza.
American officials hope the complete
absence of discourteous language and
unwarranted charges of bad faith such
as have characterized the last two
(Other Mexican News Pages 6-7)
THE WEATHER
For HarrUhnr? and vicinity: Fair
to-nlffht and Thnraday; moderate
temperature.
For Eantern Pennsylvania: Fair to
night and Thursdays moderate
north and northeast wind*.
River
The Susquehanna river and prob
ably all Its tributaries uill con
tinue to fall. A s.'nse of about
4.2 feet Is indicated for Harrls
burg Thursday moruiim.
Cieneral 4 ondltlons
An extensive area of hich pressure
covers the «reater part of the
eastern half of the country, with
Ita center over the Take Region.
There is a disturbance, apparent
ly of considerable energry. In the
Gulf of Mexico. Pressure la low
over the extreme Southwest and
bljrh along the Oregon coast.
Light to moderately heavy ralna
have fallen grenerally In tlie
South Atlantic and Ciulf States,
and there have been showers 111
the last twenty-four hours In the
I'pper St. Lawrence Valley.
Southern New Kngland and In
lowa and Nebraska.
It Is '2 to 12 degrees cooler than on
Monday morning generally In the
Lower Missouri. Middle Missis
sippi and Ohio valleys, the At
lantic States.
Temperatures 8 a. m„ A 4.
Suns Rises. 4:3 ft a. m.; sets, 7:31
p. m.
Moon: First quarter, July 8, ft:.*» 9
a. m.
River Stage: 4.5 feet above low
water mark.
Yesterday's Weather
Highest temperature, 78.
Lowest temperature, flfl.
Mean temperature. 72.
Normal temperature, 74.
m
At the Seashore or up in the
mountains, no matter where you
go to spend your \ neat ion, the
llarrisinirg Telegraph will be sure
to reach you every day. Your
▼•cation will not he complete un
lets your favorite newspaper
spends the time with you.
Drop a postal or call the Circu
lation Dept.
BY rVRBIKRS A CESITS A U'KGK.
SINGLE COriES 2 CENTS.
Mexican notes, indicates that much of
the suspicion as to the purposes of the
Washington government has been re
moved from the First Chief's mind.
Copies of the note were sent by Mr.
Arredondo to all embassies and lega
tions in Washington, particularly to
the Latin-American diplomats who
have sought previously to arrange for
mediation of the dispute.
Troops Cause of Trouble
Brief and free from all superfluous
I language of diplomacy, the communi
cation points to the release of the
American troopers captured at Car
rizal as proof of the Mexican govern
ment's sincere desire to avoid a con
flict, states as the outstanding issue
the reasonable belief of the United
States that the insecurity of its fron
tier is a source of difficulty and on the
other hand the belief of tlie Mexican
government that the presence of
American troops in Mexico is a tres
[Continued oil Page B]
Soldier Gives Son His
Pipe Before Leaving Camp
Heartrending scenes by the score
were enacted in Camp Brumbaugh
yesterday when wives saw their hus
bands, mothers their sons and sweet
hearts for the last time before the
I men departed for the border, but of
i all the sights, none was more impres
; sive than the parting kiss given by a
I member ot tne Fourth regiment to
j his little son. The soldier-father
i lives in Williamstown and he wrote
| to his wife that she should visit him
| yesterday because it would likely be
! his last Sunday in camp. He did not
fail to note, cither that the five-year
old son should see him, too. When
the time for parting came late yester
; day, the little boy looked up Into his
[father's tear-filled eyes (as he said:
I "Daddy, I won't let you go from me
I and mamma to that old war unless
| you give me something to keep." Sol
diers carry very little with them that
j they can give away but when the lad
said, "Give me your pipe," the father
; removed it from his mouth, dumped
j out the ashes and after tying a bit of
j red. white and blue ribbon about the
| mouthpiece, gave it to the boy.
American Union Against
Militarism in Session
By Associated Press
j Washington. July 5. A conference
I called by the American Union against
militarism for the purpose of finding a
solution for the difficulties between the
United States and Mexico was begun
here to-day. The American delega
tion is composed of Dr. David Starr
j Jordan, chancellor of Leland- Stanford
University; Moorfleld Storey, Boston,
; lawyer, and Amos Plnchot, of
lof Pennsylvania; Dr. Atl, a Mexico
| City editor; Luis Manuel Rojas.of Mex
ico City, and Modesto C. Rolland of
New York.
High Meat Prices Will
Continue Indefinitely
By Associated Press
Washington, July 5. High meat
price® probably will continue inde
finitely. This is the conclusion of the
Department of Agriculture as set forth
in an exhaustive report on the situa
tion, made public to-day.
High meat prices prevail throughout
the world. One reason for this is the
fact that production has failed to keep
pace with the increased consumption.
Other contributory causes given are
the increase of production and the di
minished purchasing power of the
money unit. An interesting feature in
the United States is that while the pro
duction of meat is on the increase it is
not yet proportionate to the growth of
the population.
| While holding out little or no'hope
J to-day for a reduction in meat prices
for the near future, the report says
there will probably be a gradual
growth and expansion in the world's
production of beef, mutton and pork
which may or may not equal the rate
of increase o fthe meat-eating popu
lation. * v
HARRISBURG, PA., WEDNESDAY EVENING, JULY 5, 1916.
MONSTER GUNS OF BRITISH SMASHING G I
- - 11 ni|'>l LM iiiiiiniiiiiiin ■■iii— ■■if
H in ZJ^AhfcQiiE^a
Here is an official photograph showing one of the monster British howitzers on the western front, where the
British are now making noticeable gains through the German line.
DIVISION STAFF
IS MUSTERED IN
FEDERAL SERVICE
Maj.-Gen. Clement Takes Oath;
Remaining Troops Will
Travel in Sleepers
By Associated Press
Mount Gretna, Pa.. July s.—Major-
General Clement and members of the
division staff of the Pennsylvania
troops were mustered into the United
States service by the United States
mustering officers with short ceremonv 1
shortly after noon to-day. The staff j
will leave to-night for the border, ac
cording to present plans. The division
headquarters will travel with the ar
tillery, which is being mustered into
Federal service and will leave to-night.
The cavalry is preparing to start to- I
morrow.
Word reached the camp to-day that :
[Continued on Page 6]
BANK CALLS ISSUED
State Banking Commissioner Smith
this, afternoon issued a call for a state
ment by State banks, trust companies,
private banks, savings banks, etc., as
of June 30. This is the same date as
the call for national bank statements. ;
FIREMEN WANT
PARKING RULE
Traffic Regulations Suggested
by Union; Physicians Are
Recommended, Too
City Council was asked to-day by
the Firemen's Union to adopt such
traffic regulations fas will prevent
parking of autos and other vehicles In
the streets of the business district and
around the markethouses. to provide
one-way drives in certain streets, to
equip the fire department with a sup
ply wagon, to authorize certain physi
cians who have volunteered for the
purpose to serve at fires, and to ap
point committees of five men from
each company to assist the police in
preventing interference of motor and
other vehicles and people, with fire
men.
The recommendations, all of which
were adopted Monday evening by the
Union, will be considered in executive
session by the City Commissioners at 3
o'clock Friday afternoon.
Traffic Regulations
At the same time the suggestions of
Thomas Zeil, chief of police, relative
to parking regulations, will be consid
ered. Other matters will Include the
[Continued on Page 8]
Finney Wants Men For
Bth Regiment Commands
Colonel M. E. Finney, commanding
the Eighth Infantry, this morning told
the Telegraph's staff correspondent at
Mount Gretna that men are need«d to
fill out the ranks of several companies
in the command. He said: 'We need
men who can pass the physical ex
aminations immediately. We will ar
range to pay their transportation to
Gretna. The Lewistown, Chambers
burg, York and Bedford companies
have lost men who couldn't pass. I
suggest that mop go to a doctor to see
if they are physically fit before com
ing to the mobilization camp. The
need is urgent."
TO BUT SENATE HOTEL
A report was widely circulated to
day that Arthur Hollis, superintend
ent of the Harrlsburg Club , was
negotiating the purchase of the Sen
ate Hotel from Ellis P. Gourley. the
present proprietor. Mr. Hollis admit
ted that the report was true but said
the purchase was not completed, and
he could not give any definite informa
tion until next week. Mr. Gourley
succeeded James Russ as proprietor
of the Senate several years ago.
RAISE NEWSPAPER PRICES
Atlanta, Ga., July 3. Prices of
both of Atlanta's afternoon papers
the Journal and the Georgian, were
raised from 2 to 3 cents. Increased
cost of production was given as the
caus& (
ALL PROPERTIES
IN CAPITOL ZONE
NOW TAKEN OVER
Park Extension Commission
Finishes Work of Acquir
ing Holdings
At a meeting to-day the Capitol
Park Extension Commission finished
'its work, so far as taking over in the
name of the Commonwealth of Penn
sylvania the properties in the Capitol
Fark Extension zone is concerned,
i There were in all 537 properties in
I the zone, 01 which 517 properties were
acquired by the Commonwealth by
amicable proceedings with the own
ers of the same, and twenty properties
represented by ten separate owners,
j were taken by condemnation proceed
[Contlnued on Page 11]
SHIP SUNK IX COLLISION
Dover, England, July 5. The Am
erican steamship Jacob Luckenbach
was sunk to-day in collision with an
unidentified steamship off Dover. Her
| crew of'3l was rescued.
The Jacob Luckenbach arrived at
! Queenstown June 27 from San Fran
• cisco.
PARALYSIS KILLS
ONE BABY AN HOUR
178 New Cases in Rrooklyn;
Few Have Chance to Recover;
Epidemic Is Spreading
By Associated Press
New York, July s.—The average of
one death an hour was maintained
to-day by the infantile paralysis epi
demic, twelve children dying of the
disease between 10 o'clock last night
and 10 o'clock this morning in the five
boroughs of New York.
During that period there were 178
new cases reported. Of this number
157 were in or near the seat of the epi
demic in Brooklyn.
In one Brooklyn hospital to-day
there were 225 children victims of
i the disease, many'of whom, it was
I said, had only a slight chance of re
covery.
Health Commissioner Emerson was
in conference to-day with his assist
j ants and a corps of medical experts,
j It is understood that drastic measures
j to rid the city ot the plague are under
consideration.
Total of 702 Cases
The officers of the health depart
ment were besieged all day by men,
1 women and children, mostly foreign
ers, who, terrified by reports of the
' spread of the disease, demanded med
ical advice. It was necessary to sum
mon extra policemen to preserve order
and at one time those sitting for an
audience with the doctors formed a
line which extended for nearly a block.
Since June 26, when the 'epidemic
took hold, 702 cases of infantile pa
ralysis have been reported. Of this
number 138 died.
Physicians tlßhting: the disease were
of the belief to-day that cooler
weather which followed a shower
would do more good than anything
else in routing the plague.
Lava From Stromboli Is
Spreading, Burns Houses;
Population Fleeing to Sea
By Associated Press
Rome, July 5. The eruption of
Stromboli has become serious. The
flow of lava is spreading to the sparse
coast settlements, burning and de
stroying houses and the population is
fleeing to the sea and taking refuge on
relief ships sent from Messina. Tele
graphonic communication with Messi
na has been interrupted.
There are many signs of seismic dis
turbances throughout Italy. The heat
has been intense for the past two days.
Earth shocks occurred this morning
at Rimini, Delvedere, Marettimo, An
cona and other Adriatic district*, but
loss of life has been reported,
SOBS GRIEF AT
SLAYING OF HIS
FRIEND OF YEARS
Steelton Servian Sinks Knife
Into Heart of Companion
During Drunken Brawl
Whipping: a long: knife from his I
pocket in front of a South Third street I
house, Steelton, last night. Vlada
Yovonovic. a Serbian, plunged the
weapon up to its hilt into the breast
of Nicholas Skara, of 757 South Front
street, a fellow-countryman, and then
fled.
Clutching with both hands at the
handle of the knife, the other end of
which was imbedded in his heart,
Skara. tottered a few *L«ps into a
group of foreigners sitting on a nearby
step.
"Vlada, the coward, he kill me,"
he muttered and fell at the feet of
the crowd.
With Yovonovlc at the time of the
assault was Dusan Despotov, a West
Side foreigner, said to bo his brother
in-law. Both fled to a small woods
below Chambers street.
The foreigners who witnessed the
murder formed a posse and followed.
Hiding behind a tree, quaking in fear,
they found Yovonovic. Sudden justice
[Continued on Page 11]
SIX MEN IN AUTO
WITH DEAD WOMAN
Charged With Illegal Medical
Practices; Movements of Ma
chine Lead to Ari'est
Salem, Mass.,' July s.—Attracted by
! the mysterious movements of an auto
! mobile, which had sped up and down
Boston Street for half an hour early
to-day, Policeman Dennis Healy stop
ped the car and discovered within It
the body of Miss Margaret Ward, of
Peabody.
Six men who were in the car, one of
whom was former State representa
tive Charles R. O'Connell, of Pea
body, were arrested by Healy. At po
lice headquarters a charge of being
accessories to illegal medical practices
I was placed against the men.
In addition to the former represen
tative they included his brother,
James O'Connell. of Lynn; George A.
Bardwell, a member of the crew of
the United States cruiser. Kearsage;
Daniel J. Deenen and William D. Con
lin, of Salem, and Thomas J. Sexton,
of Peabedy, who had driven the car.
Police Sergeant C. A. P. Duffee iden
tified the dead woman as his sister-in
law. Later he went to Boston in an
attempt to locate the house from
which the young (woman was said to
hare been removed. According to the
police Miss Ward died after having
been placed in the machine.
Medical Examiner Frank S. Atwood,
after viewing the body, said he would
make no statement until he had con
sulted with District Attorney Louis
Cox. Meanwhile Bardwell, Sexton
and Charles O'Connell were released
under $2,000 bonds each.
Miss Ward was 26 years old and re
cently had been employed in a Pea
body store.
Camp Hill Boy on Bicycle
Killed by Auto Truck
Struck by a large motor truck in
Market street, Camp Hill, Richard
Sweeney, nine-year-old son of Mr. and
Mrs. John E. Sweeney, of Camp Hill,
was hurled from the bicycle he was
riding and instantly killed when the
front wheel passed over his legs and
the rear wheel crushed his neck. The
truck was loaded with men and wo
men returning to Carlisle from an
outing at Mt. Gretna. The truck is
owned by O.'Deckman, of Carlisle.
Coroner J. H. Deardorf and Dis
trict Attorney George E. Lloyd are
investigating. An inquest will be held
this evening at the office of Justice of
the Peace Bowman, of Camp Hill. The
body has been taken to the morgue of
F. C. Neely, 908 North Second street !
The boy is well known in the city and
was a student at the Harrisburg Aca
demy. The fireworks exhibition at
Camp Hill was postponed last night
because of the death. Mr. Sweeney is
a well known official of the Bell Tele
phone Company.
16 PAGES
PUSH GERMANS
FARTHER BACK
IN BIG DRIVE
New Progress Made by Allies in Offensive; French Push
Eastward From Curlu; Carry Two Lines of Teuton
Trenches; Capture Sorment Farm
COUNTER ATTACKS ON BRITISH POSITIONS
BEATEN OFF WITH LITTLE DIFFICULTY
Continue to Hold and Fortify Captured Territory; French
Moving Nearer Peronne; Russians and Italians Are
Winning; Cossacks Reported to Be in Hungary;
Threaten Austrian Line of Communication
Yard by yard the German lines are being pushed back by the
entente allies under the steady hammering of their offensive move
ment on the western front. New progress for both the French ami
the British is reported by Paris and London to-day.
While keeping up the work of clearing the southern bank of
the Somme in the field of their attack the French are now pushing
eastward from Curlu, north of that stream and have carried twe
lines of German trenches there.
The advance on the South bank included the capture of Sorment
farm, opposite Clerv.
London is less specific in reporting the British gains, thi
official bulletin merely announcing "further progress at certain im
portant points." The beating off of German attacks on the new
British positions near Thiepval also is recorded.
Berlin to-day claims that the fighting of last night on the front
of the allied offensive in the west did not result in serious impair
ment of the German position.
French Get 9,000 More Prisoners
Paris announces the capture of more than 9,000 prisoners by
the French in the new offensive operations along the Somme. Tin
total taken by the allies is unofficially estimated at 15,000 and the.
aggregate German losses as not less than 60,000. The Germans an
[Confirmed on Pa*e fl]
a,„ v "vyi'vy
? El Paso, July s.—The First Battalion, First Regiment, jp
1 Penns- ietraincd to-day at Fort L
a Bliss. ?
1 DECLARES ALLIES ARE GOING TO WIN jf
£ London, July s.—Speaking before the Pilgrims to-day,
I Vicount Bryce declared the war would not end in a draw J
<> 9 and the allies are going to win; that the German govern- « ►
**J< they arc aten but that the Ger- 1
: , man people do not know it; that the allies are fighting for « >
V a great principle—prii vhich the Germans outraged j|
1 ! and wh be vindicated and that the allie . ►
< * seek to discredit the military caste which delights in war J
! ' Europe but all countries, America L
l I included. jF
HOLD "INDIAN GIVER" FOR COURT f
| I Harrisburg.—Victor Memmo, charged with forcing his l E
| Bwe< Iry which he had
j : ue, was held this ■ >
- , »
j EPIDEMIC SPREADS TO NEWARK
i Newark, N J., July 5. The epidemic of infantile' *
1 paralysis rc. ark to-day. A three-year-old boy
S is dead and another boy is in a serious condition. f !
ITALIANS MAKE FURTHER GAINS
<1 Rome, July s—New successes have been won by the • *
| I Italians in their offensive in the Trentino, the war office an- ?
I nounced to-day. They have occupied the summit of Monte f
| jj Corno, northwest of the Pasubio and captured the crest of
Monte Sellugio. #
j HAS ARMOR PLANT AMENDMENT £
Washington, July s.—An amendment to the navy ap- 2
* make the proposed $11,000,000 appropriation for a govern- ' ;
J mcnt . pi te pknt available only in case private man^
< » ufacturcrs refused to give the Federal Trade Commission *
full opportunity to investigate the cost of producing armor,
J » or to enter into contracts with the Navy Department at f
prices determined upon by the commission as reasonable. I
; i "41
MARRIAGE LICENSES |
J Michael John Morgan, ityrii'iiw, N. Y., and Natj latherluc Burn*, elty. »
Ralph E. Daniel and Burlah K. Rlrkert, l.ykrnt,
rlllTord William Jenka, Cleveland, Ohio, and Pearl Elisabeth Hale. K "
Iteeltoa. V
Earl Emeraen Zrlsler, Wllmlnfton, Del., and Anna Irene Smith, city. %
I"Atiii|V II iirWiii|irV)|ii
CITY EDITION
