-ww
Vp
UNIVERSITY MISSOURIAN
EIGHTH YEAR
COLUMBIA, MISSOURI, WEDNESDAY, JULY 5, 1916
NUMBER 263
Is
11 TO 5 !"
IN EXHIBITION GAME!
COMPANY'S flag IS HERE'
Ho mi Exhibit two Ilaj, Then
W il t.o to the Soldiers.
The silk Bag. which the citizens of
. ; Columbia will present to Company F,
J Fourth Regiment. X. G. U. S has ar-
T n t tt- i n i , l rived and will be on displav at the
Lacy Roberts, High School, Strawn.Neate Dr. Good5 Como.
day and tomorrow. It will then be
sent to the company.
Here is the letter that will be sent
GERMANS REINFORCE CITY PUNS TO PAVE
TO HALT THE ALLIES LAST PIECE OF
TILE WEATHER
For rrtliimt.iu jn.l Vlrlnltj-: Kalr t
nlsLt. Tbnrlay crn-rallr fair. pri.tMl.ly
liwomlns unettled In attrroouu; n.t much
cbanjri- la trniiwrature.
Tor Misourl: fair tonight. TbnrdaT
fair north. inrtvatlnir cl'iuiline uuth
IMirtinn; not mncli rhansr in t-mt-rature.
iVratlirr Condition.
The linrometrii- ir-ur I reiativelr
0, S, WILL CONTINUE
PARLEY WITH MEXICO
Southpaw, Holds Mobcr-
ly to 4 Hits.
Kaiser 1 ran sters lro ops rrom Bumpy btretch on West ?.diu&!n1. SS, Present Situation Is Satisfac
Verdun to Battle at the . Broadway Is Taken Up ! !&iA'tirl;? fc ton-, According to Sec
River Somme. bv the Council. li?KXnlfVt i'li' 'n- Inntin,,
jr-iat.vw.r low. but tLftv w u -tortn on-
itr. innnzn xn winner l morv or Ies
TEAM SLAMS BALL ZSuLfcZlZ BRITISH MAKE GAINS( WILL LINK HIGH WAYS K.K;;;, MAY MEDIATE NOW
" J (' iiniilratIe nry. that appear to W ,
hied m front of the courthouse on .tune
Knocks Duvenic off Mound 20. isis. directed the undersigned to French and Russians Are ', Other Improvements Dis-
purchase a suitable silk nag for the
Columbia Machine Gun Company.
Fourth Infantry, National Guarl It !
is with pleasure, sir, that we hae per-
I.acy Roberts, a school boy athlete. fornled tha: duty, and we herewith Br United i'res
at Start Total of 13
Safe Ones.
Repulsed, According to
Berlin Reports.
cussed Petitions for Sew
ers and Walks Filed.
pii-uin n war unrtowaril. 1 p to
thi m.inilnr. uiml Tt-1'i.-lty bad nut Wn . n 1 t t- i-
u nu Mini, ami prMljiitatinn tu t--n eon- LarranZa S KcDlV Is Brief
tinl to miMWate .hmpr on tL- Texa. .
and Completely Facifi
catorv in Tone.
I-.iui-l.iiia anil Florida -iut.
Tin prwlj. it.u Inn ytrrilar wa of a
lix-.il harai-tiT, falling at iil-ly pjrati
point.
T-iui--ratii:v. a- a mi atirirnxlm.it- the
At last the bumps are to be taken t "n-raa- tiiiii-umn.rr vain-.
p.. - innr 31- -ny t.nr -ati-r win pivv.ill in o
ror a lonj, . ,.,.. .i.i ,,, .. . ,ti.. i
had the Moberly Athletics, leaders haBl, ... VOII this embTem of our c?un- ' 1-OXDO.W July 3. The Kaiser has , , w , nroadwav.
of the Central Missouri League, at try. feeling assured that you and the withdrawn troops from the Verdun time the little distance for the end of ipr..ii.lr i-..n,in ui-ttil na'r ?l.e h
his mercy during the whole nine in- nobIe von? men associated with you
nlngs of the Fourth of July exhibition u.jh carrlt if necessarv into Mexico,
came at Moberly yesterday afternoon. Mav the siht of tne sta'rs and str!pes
liy t'nitp.1 I'rs.
WASHINGTON'. July 5. The United
States is willing to continue negotia
tions with the Carranza covernment
in view of the latter's desire to niain-
lcy let the league leaders down with ever be an inspiration to you and a
four hits, while his teammates were daiIv reminder that ycur friends in
corralling thirteen. Tie Brawns won Columbia appreciate your preat sacri-
tne came. 11 to ...
The Browns started risht off as the
cone sounded and had enouch to win
at the end of the second ianinc. They
rounted three in the first and five in
the second. Duvenic. the stellar Mob- ,
e'-ly left-hander, was pounded out of
the box after one wa out in the sec- ;
ond. Blake, the richt-fielder. was ',
nominated for the dealinc. Blake fin-
ally stemmed the tide of the second, j
and after that it was easier, the '
Browns cettinc one in the sixth and '
two in the ninth.
Tie -..! liy lnnlnc:
front to meet the western movement I ,ht, .., , rir.,rt-1 v "f ,l"" ,,'ri',
of the Allle,. which continued today bou has ben a s:re ' t in th"e , . ....... If' "
on both sides of the River Somme. eJes of tJle autojsts f0r ndinc there i Tetenljy m. i. ami tiw imrt la-t nlcht tain relations. This was made known
Dispatches from British headquart- , r'esembles that on"the wave. IY".; jL'JSIii?: a?VrSS a the State Deirtment officially this
ers this afterncon annsunced the ap- The city Counc whlca net last j ""r, .'.'-ir1 'LXn M afseraoon- af,er il aad considered the
pearance of German units from the , nsnl , ordere(i a grade established and ' i'nHil '" ' ' Carranza messace. Whether such con-
'ce for our country and the sacri- Verdun battleground on the front at . !atroduced a resolution deeminc it
r. n k
r.'iimMa ;;n ooi n n :-u i: .
M,.l-rlT im 0 10 4 o o r, 4 3
fice of those near and dear to you.
"With assurances of confidence and
esteem and trusting th-it you and this
ensicn will soon return in safety to
your homes, we are. sir.
Very truly yours.
X. T. GENTRY.
L. M. DEFOE.
C. B. ROLLINS.
D. A. ROBNETT.
JN0. N. TAYIjOR.
S. C. HCNT.
Committee.
J. M. BATTERTON.
Mayor of Columbia.
the Somme.
Statements from both
the British
The .ln14nar.
;.. w ...?.... t . it. ..
, , , .. ' -""111 i ""I .. T .. .1.
necessary to pave this cap, so that it ,7?. p. m.
in.
will then make a continuous rock and
and French announce further cains. , payed r3ad for four miIes bmh wst ,
now many uerman troops oa.e 2ad west of Coiumbia. This is ia iine ;
been transferred from Verdun is not :
M.in 'ft- in SB p. m.
Tin- Trmprraturr Twla
T3 II a. m.
. Ti; 12 ui
-"n
ni
a. m
i wih the recent edltnri.il onlnions of r a- In-
yet known, but British military men j ,he Universitr Missourian. ,i''-.n.
declare tcnicnt taat tae Allies onen- Aa ordinaace was passed pr0vidinc -.
sive already has succeeded in one of;. . -d ... ,...,. in iiii-riinn llll
its objects, the lightening of the Ger- street fnm Melbourne street to Moss . . Mfll W H RAW
ui ui uini iiiinuiinii
ditions will be by mediation or bv di-
nn -t. rect ne3tiations between the two na-
tions was not revealed.
Secretary Lansinc, however, said
H that the rejection of the informal me-
i i m m diatlon cvertures recently could not
man pressure on Verdun.
I!y I'liltf-l 1're-.
i avenue: bids far the construction will
'be received Julv 14. A grade is also'
BERLIN. July 5.-The battle is still , to be established on Garth avenue to MiHtarv Men Sav Troops. ".0 ,Te Z'ZL
racing on both sides of the Somme, it , McBaine avenue, and a sidewalk is llr.' ., A witndrawai o. tne American
was officiallv announced this after- : ordered in on the north side of Ash. W M Retire if Larranza not reiterated.
be interpreted as a final rejection of
the principle.
Completely pacificatory in tsne, the
Carranza message was brief.
The embarrassment resulting from
the present troubles in Mexico is again
emphasized. The demand for the
troops is
Sntiimarv: KarnI rnn Colnmliia 7.
Mi!t1v 3. Two-tva-e hit Ttntltxlie 1.
fiiipiinlil 1. Tim-H-h hit f. Wllliani
T Hutu rnn Kiitllcf 1. Pnlllran 1.
l!a-- on lll !? RciWrt 1. oil PnTcnii
1. i.ft Male 4. Ijfft on lia- rnlmnhU ':
Mn-rlv ". Strnft ont hy Rotxrt 2. by
IBT.-ni- 1. liv Itlake 3. UnuMi- play Aoct
noon. There is also much fighting street. An ordinance was ordered ,
around Verdun. French attacks north 'drawn up providing for the oiling of l
Remains Friendlv.
! FORMER M. I". STIKEXT SLAIN'
TREE QUESTION IS UP
west of Thiumont were repulsed.
Stewart Road.
I!y United I're.
Ko-trr to M.i-on. Hit l.y pitcher-T.ijron pnnn-:i W.il P..f.,11.
Illalc. i:. William 1. tiy wv...t. ""uiu a Lan-iuni
Rglnh Vfiiilln On V..l..r t'rI.. T
In hand to hand fighting. German Other petitions brought up and re-1 COLUMBUS. N. M.. July 3. Among , sh)(t . VttToit 0ijceman
troops under Prince Iopold repulsed i ferred to committees. A petition for j military men here today the feeling is
the Russians near Bhomocitchi. ' sidewalks on the north and south sides crowing that orders will be given in a RaIph Ray Rankln for two years
;f Walnut fr.-m Price avenue to Wil-: ,t f- ,h ,ri,i,,r,i f tnia student in the University, was fat-
. . isuu.i umc "-I i" .....iv..u"i . vu.
1 I!ri.V 2.
Rol-rt. rmplre. PalTy.
WILL HAVE BASEBALL BENEFIT
'hn Tmrmw
Settle Trouble Over the
Wire Stringing.
W.C. 3IAXLY AM) F. CVTRIRHT TIE, Hams street, another for a water main American expedition from Mexico, pro-a - sn01 Dy a P01lceman ,n ueiru
Ion Grand avenue from Second street i vidinc Carranza makes no unfriendly ,lsv -" xorainB repuru,
niifde Honors in (loll Tournament .
Finished 2 Under Bogey.
to Dakota avenue, one for electric , move.
Iichts at the intersections of Second j
.received here today. Young Rankin,
who was attendnig the engineering
Wmrevpr nn ctpn irMi rfitilH he in- 1
Prof. W, G. Manly, with a handicap i , p . .. at second street .t.r..rt , nreiiminar ,n ithrtral department of the University of Mich-
I The recent trouble between property, of seven, and F. C Wright, with -."and North Garth avenue and at Forest , has been taken. The roads along the f?an- was a Kansas Cit boy
owners in Columbia and the wtter and handicap of twelve, beat Colonel Bo-' . n , avenu The resi-ir ,ro , ,,r ,h . The particulars regarding his death
Brn and Ell to
for Local Red fro.
The Columbia Browns and ine tws . Hllht department because of the trim- gey two up and tied for first place in , deQt? of additi3n ed that the are , n , the American , are vague. First reports indicate that
baseball team win meet at otoUociock mine of trees to make way for electric the golf tournament played Saturday. ri in tha, district be cut and the nomnc " 'he was shot wliie riding , a stolen
city attornev was authorized to look rnotScial information received here
motor cycle. He at first gave a
tomorrow afternoon on Rollins Field. , wires and llole5 is nearing a peaceful Prof. C. L Brewer, with a handicap
n? Zr a- ,? IZ The settlemenl at ,he of the com- of three- an1 Radford PUtam' wi,h into the matter of cutting the weeds ,8 to the effect that General Pershing false name- but- on a ,0,d that
Columbia Red Cu- society, and tne anlttee appointed from the council to a handicap of eleven, were next, and at the expense of the nroperty owners. ' nPrsona!lv is in favor of withdrawal. he uId not ,ive- asked tne authori-
money will De sj-ent on tne .uiour. investigate and renort on the matter, even with the Colonel. . not,im fnr , MMr nutrirt in ' . ' . k i,o,i ties to notify Charles P. Rankin, his
"close friend." This was his father.
hut an i .. ....,.. a real estate neaier oi rvansas vny.
Dut ant GOLFERS TO GO TO UAPITOL. . ...
order was passed that sewers be es- ! "ls parents immeaiateiy leu lor uc-
A golf team of ten players will go hned on Garth. McBaine. Ash and j Colombia Will Be (Juet at Jefferson ,troit, and dispatches from that city
City This Week-End. ,sam tney lauea to announce tneir re-
The Columbia Golfers will invade , 'P ' ommeu i; iat
time. It was not until Monday mat
all doubt as to his identity was re-
:,...-. .,. . n ito.1 out -L . . ... .. - l"-"""- '' " '""" '" " mere is to oe no intervention.
.cuiuicuis i..i .!- -- me iree committee nancea in it colonel Boeey is a actitious goiter the vjcinitv cf Emilia street was re-
on account oi uie iruuuie iu ..i.LU. , report at tne meeting of the c:uncil iacainst whom the players contended. ferred to the citv enginer:
nertr arc uc niir-u mi i-- last nignt. me ionowing recom- He represents good, average goit.
teams:
tins iiiMUi.-. t. ..vuc .u. -. All luture plots ror additions to the ing to play the Jefferson City team. , Edcewood avenue . petition for wat-t
Estes. 2b: Nowell. 3b: D. Estes. ss: .cjtv wji not be accepted unless they 'to Jefferson Citv next Saturday morn- , .," " ,fo ;
andiver. cf B. Hill If. J. Hill rf. Include alleys or right-of-way for pole ing to play the Jefferson City team. t0 the water and liRht committee. Jefferson Citv next Saturdav.
Taylor, p. Browns-Ugon s: Pto-, itaeB. The team will ?o in automobile.' sfi. annrnnriations were made: - . ", '.
ter. 2b: Rutleige. cf: Dippold. rf: Ma
son, lb: Voct. If: Davis. 3b: Price, c:
Roberts or Ccok. p.
The junior Red Cross will have
charce of the ticket sale for the game.
The admision will be 2." cents.
The city should adopt a definite pol- iThe members of the team will not be -,
several appropriations were made: i The fo!owine men wIn probabiy
ii4A.5 in j in int. nrtitri utiu ii-i- . . i i-vt--. r t
icy of removing the pole lines along selected until Thursday or Friday. , Fund ?201C4T from the ptneral reve- "'"";"" m Barnett Prof w' G
the streets where trouble now arises. Because of the number of players,-.,. fl,nd .,, 5,0-n fr,m the Conler f. . ' . , T.!". J, . . ,,
rfonartmt,t !.,,. ,n in-,c fi- o, sr,t,- " . i Jianiy. rroi. j. w. tun. rroi. u. n
, P,..,. JV.....-V... vii- i.v.vv UUI.I...-I poor Innil
FORMER M. U.
The water and light
should employ someone trained in the the last eighteen holes of the qualify
care of trees to trim systematically -ing round of the championship tourn-
all trees interfering or threatening to 'ament will be played on Monday, July
STU1IENT WEDS interfere with the light wire: this ' io. instead of Saturday, July S.
however, does not include emergency '
rnAUTAU.JUA (.ROUMIS CHOSEN
i moved.
The body was brought to Kansas
,City yesterday.
'Dollev. Prof. J. A. Gibson and Dr. R.
A meeting will be held nex Monday I M Bu'rpess The vo,jncer golfers who
nicht to fix the budget for the in-1 w, make the trjp are DIc. Richards.
suing year. T ri,tne r.ihin Rnrifnrd Pittam. Fred
NEW EPISCOPAL REITOR NAMEO
MN- Franct-v McKt and T. Shnttee . . '
Marry at Wyoming. Pa. e itlzens shouId bp reoueted
Thomas Shuttee. a former student not to plant trees in the parkings less '",Pn
in the University, and Miss Frances .h.an four feet wide, and in parkincs
McKee were married June 2S at the f creater width a nolicy should be
The Rev. J. II. Ceorce Will Hat.. C-
. . u.u... ..w... ............ . . -. jiiuiHiu i iiurru .tiirr icinrr i.
' Ixiorais. Fred Wright. Charles Fawcett , . .. , n-.ii. f-
THREE SWEPT UNTO DEEP WATER . ., rlv.in n,v J- H- George of Danielson. Conn..
. and -alvln Lla- . -.rill be the new rector of the Calvary
Perclie Creek Endanger- I.ltcs of j The players will stay in the Capitol Episcopal Church here. The new rcc
Fonrth of July Pirnlc)er. City over the week-end as guests of , tor and bis wife and son wju be jn
Tinslev Haden. Mor Conlev and Miss . the olf cIab there and drive ' Columbia October 1.
Mabel Conley figured in a near-acci- i Sunday. The Columbia men will beat Mr George is 30 years old and a
CoIIeire Canipu Will Re
Scene of Annual Entertainment.
The Stephens College campus has
home of the brides brotner. tne uev. jcii of placinc poles next to the "''" --- '' '" v.uiUIuu.a v.uau- dgnt on their Fourth of Ju,v picnic at)a consiaeraDie disaavantace on tne , Harvard graduate. Before he took or
Robert McKce of Wyoming. Pa. idewalk. ,tauqua. to be held July 15-20. accord- Searcv.s fann when ther went sw-im- Jefferson City course as the greens, ders, ne was en!;aped in missionary
Mrs. Shuttee is a daughter of the Tne present engineering committee .In- to Secretary K. K. Judy. , m,n jn Perche Creeic and were swept there are of sand and some of the :work in china
late Dr. N. B. Mcwee oi r-Jiion. .ur. should be aboIIhed
Shnttee was a student in the Iniver- citv planning committee
sity during the 1914-15 session and ' ed. lts program. The six-day session
is "a graduate of Westminster College Finally, the committee recommended wiH be the best ever given in Colum-
at Fulton. He is a member oi tne to the water and licht department ula- accuruiup to moe in cnarge.
Kappa Alpha fraternity.
and a permanent Columbia Chautauqua has nev- an undercurrent imo eii;ht feet of j players have not had any experience.
nee oe estaonsn- - - -.-" - watPr. n us. u-cr. . v-i- ., ,., on R(,ins KtM
Haden saved the three by catching Iwnbia ys have been doing good j Thp JJov Scoms and ot
hold of a dead tree, which, thouch it . " " hmp curse and are a !of Columbia under high school age
broke the first time, served to hold anxious to play Jefferson City. heI( a track meet yeserda moralns
i the "Handbook on Overhead Line Con- . William Jennings Bryan, the big- him untn he c01ll(J rpsCTie the others.
The couple are spending a part of struction" of the National Electric ceiIt drawing card of the Chautauqua,
tie honeymoon at West Plains,
They will live in EI Reno, Okla.
- . T f W . . .. .- I.- firttlAH llTs-LY f hAA V Om H . vm
the honeymoon at west nam, . i.icnt Association, witn articles on ""-"" i" rc n"; "'b". when taken from the water.
I .. T.,1. ...
Miss Conley tvas almost unconscious ; TO IPIMl llll.H X IMHII. iKh. run off and ribbons were eiVPn thc
on Rollins Field. Ten events were
. ... . . winners of the first four daces in each
trimming trees. July lo. i nose wno neara mm ta.K 0jher member of the partJ. were Mr JL i. tonrercice in ont.ine tnay : evpnt Accordin? ,0 A R TroxeI dI.
rnp rprommpnoaiiSTi: Tvprp siimpfi " juuiuowsui n. Miu uii uj rt ,- tl Tiuuitnna oH thPir " ur ik'-itihn
,. - - aim .His. Ullii i uiici" v-
Y. W. C. A. l'Un a nNruion.
The Y. W. C- A. will have a round
table discussion on "What is the
Teacher's Opportunity?" at Read Hall
at 7 o'clock tonight. Special music
will be provided. Miss Ruth Rcllins
will take up her duties as Y. W. C. A.
secretary at the becinnin
regular school year.
bv W. D. Shaw. E. B. McDonnell and lectures still contain enthusiasm and thre? chiIdren Mrs Tinsley Haden
O. D. Kellocg. who compose the pres- Pow'er.
ent tree committee.
Midway Rriilce Collapse.
No one was hurt today at noon,
when the countv bridge which is be-
of the ine bui't at x''rtwar collapsed. The
work on this bridge is being done
bv countv prisoners, and while an old
The advance ticket sale has been
larger than in any preceding year. A '
special season ticket for $2 Is now be
ing offered. However, popular priced
single admissions can be obtained.
and Miss Bertha Ferguson.
CITY CLERK MAKES REPORT
i rector of the meet, several of the boys
At the next regular meeting of the showed promi!M, of developing into
High School Conference, in Room 205. , tracJc atars
Academic Hall, at 4 o'clock next Fri-
dar afternoon, the discussion of high ' ., , ....
Ilminuii: Hun In llii.ttii I titfit.ifiotia
! school problems and reorganization " '
Court Pay for Care of Poor.
The Coram rcial Club will have its
weekly Iunchion at Harris tomorrow.
IS. F. Conley will talk on "The Edu
cational Advantages of the Chautau-
and J. v.". Schwabe on "The Ad-
Carl T. Felker (.'oe to Hospital.
Carl T. Felker. a senior in the
School of Journalism and student in
the Summer Session, has been taken
to 'he Parker Memorial Hospital, suf
fering from severe stomach and in
testinal trouble.
J. S. Hirknell fihe Council Account , j v. continued.
of Cilj Expenditure. , jst prfday the meeting was pre
The city clerk. John S. Bickuell, sided over by G. R. Twiss. professor ,
submitted a reDort of the city's expen- ( of the Drincinles and nraciice of edu-
Thp Ponntv Court (nilnr tcenol n l:...A .A. T..I.. ir.l". tn trilv- 1 li:. . .v. T'.lraM.t. y rilv vhi,
- .- .... vu,. .u..u.. ...-.juvu IlllUltrS 11UU1 JUll 1. I.'l. l .,u,. ', ' VilllUll UI IUC V l .-ll ui vuy, .. iu
abutment was being replaced bv a new warrant for H.S13.S3 for the support wis. to the council at its meeting la.t is teaching high school problems here I. "' , v """-
concrete one. the structure fell. No of the insane poor from Boone Coun- nisht. The following is a summarized this summer. ". ' ' u, T
one wa near the work at the time tv a e State Hospital at Fulton statement. For salaries anJ commis-! Prof. J. D. Elliff. director of the '" the Chautauqua which Is to
. . ... . . .... he held on tho Slpnnpn Pollepe ram-
. .1.. .m. irom JUlv 1 until Januarv i. 19ii. The ionc -ii ?. n.-n PTnenried: for snmmpr Session onened the discus-1 - r- -
VII liiV IdlllUI. . -. - - ...u.a.. vv jvr -- - -
court will continue in session tomor- public work JS.6S3.9S: for police de-ion bv presenting problem of re-
ro'r- partment J6.593.SS; for fire depart- organizing the curriculum. The "six-
ment $4,12o.9'; for public health and-six" plan, where the twelve crades
i pus July 13 to 20.
Wl'copinc Cough Premlent. He Sav
There are more than a hundred
rases of whtoping couch in Columbia,
pecording to Dr. C. O. Davidcn. It
' tnot nrex-alent in the north nart
of town. Doctor Davidon thinks
CIrcnit Court Nearly Oit-r.
To Spend Honeymoon in Kania City. J37i.r,3: for miscellaneous $2,650.14: of the old system are divided Into two , The June term of the Boone County
Miss. Ethel Via and Omar C. Coats total expenditure of 27.O03.24: total divisions of six grades each, was di- Circuit Court probably will not last
were married at S o'clock .Monday balance J3S3.52; total overdraft (2.-' cussed. The six-three-and-three" plan. ore than two or three days after
night at 501 Ninth street. Thev left 745 tr ' where the twelve grades are divided 'he court convenes again Monday
'Into three divisions, was also dis- mornlnc. circuit tlerk James
The crowd was small, and most of the vloped. a it I now nearlr checked. Ci,-V- aer which they will live ih Co- Mi Ella FNht-r Wed J. W. Fofer. , cussed. Mss faia tda-v-
lots were reserved for future saie. muioia. Miss Ella Fisher and Jesse . fos-
ill een Lot for iiJi'K
Several lots were sold by E. C.
Clinkscales at his lot sale yesterday. tnPrf, u be onv few. more cases de- that nicht for a short visit in Kansas
Seven lot sold for J2.6S0.S0.
Rnral Pator to Move Her-.
The Rev. Jesse Brown, pastor
.ter were married at 3 o'clock Sun-
of Only One Arret on Fourth Here. dav afternoon bv the Rev. A. W. Pas-
The Fourth of July was an unusu- lev at his home at 501 South Ninth
Shoot Slf With Toy litoI. Send Candj Herr From Eat
While loading a tor pistol yester-, Miss Mary Baker, bead cataloguer
day afternoon, Edwin M. Turner, ne- jn tle University library, who is at-
11 .... . 1 1 l.l- ruatir- tu, T-TtIc Phnrrh at Pnckv Fork.
11. .j. iiuit-iiiMiri .i.rm"ii .-...v.- LAjv- ii'-- ...-. ... .- - . - . ........ ,v ui iii0 uumi i wi -- 1
Prof H J. Davenport will speak at this county, will move to Columbia ally light day for the police depart- street. Mr. Foster is the son of theigro, 9 years old. accidentally shot I tending the American Library Asso
the Unhersitv ssemblv at 10 o'clock in a few days to take adrantace of the ment. Only one arrest was made late Charles Foster who. for many himself In the hand. The boy Is a i elation meeting at Asbury Park. X. J..
tomorrow moraine The subject nas schools. -Mr. urown nas oeen uvius uu i taiveii up last nignt tor in-. years, lived east or Loiumma. int sranusua ui .mid. u.ut umu, -Uv,.v....u.u i..c m-ioi; in u. "imm
not yet been announced.
in Macon County.
toxication.
jcouple will live at S04 Fay street lives at 302 North Third street. borne a hex of salt water taffr.
