*l
*fu*
VOLUME XXXVII.
YODNG MOTHER IS
BURNEDTO DEATH
S S OHMER WARNER DIES
WAS A DAUGHTER OF HENRY
SEIFERT OF NEW ULM.-LIVED
AT CANBY
One of the most pitiful, most dreadful
of fates befell Mrs. Ohmer Warner
of Canby, daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Henry Seifert of this city, Monday
when she lost her life thru an explosion
which followed the use of gasoline as a
dry cleaning agent. Mrs. Warner was
so terribly burned that she died a few
hours after the accident occurred and
all her friends were shocked beyond
expression at the awful news that came
by telephone during the afternoon.
Her sufferings were so great that death
was indeed a relief from the torture
which could not be ended otherwise.
Mrs. Werner was cleaning with the
gasoline in the basement of the house
during the early afternoon. After finish
ing the dry cleaning she wished to start
the electric washer and inserted the
plug in the light socket. On the instant
a spark leaped forth and the room was
filled with fierce, hungry flames that
spared nothing. The unfortunate young
\woman's clothing was quite consumed
and the pitiless flames seared her flesh
until she cried out in terrible fright and
agony. A man working in the second
story of a house next door heard the
explosion and Mrs. Warner's cries and
leaped thru a window to the ground and
rushed to her rescue but too late altho
he stopped not for doors but broke in
the basement window his efforts to
save her. He earned her out and the
fire department took care of the flames.
Every medical assistance possible was
called but the shock and the injuries
were too great for the slight body and
at 5:30 the afternoon she passed
away, unconsciousness having relieved
her sufferings about half an hour before
she died.
Mrs. Warner was born Elsa Seifert
at New TJlm April 21st, 1891. She
spent her childhood days here, attended
the local parochial and public schools
and was graduated from the High School.
She was a very bright young girl and one
of the most beautiful that ever called
New TJlm her native place. She went
to Minneapolis to study nursing and
while at the City Hospital where she
completed her course she met Dr. Ohmer
Warner, then an interne of the Hos
pital. They were married November
22nd, 1912, and settled at Canby where
they have since lived. One little daugh
ter, Donna Marie, now ten months old,
completed the family circle. Mrs. War
ner had many friends wherever she went,
all of whom will grieve sincerely with
and for the stricken relatives. Besides
her husband and child she leaves her
parents and three brothers, Drs. O. J.
and A. V. Seivert, Leo Seifert and one
sister, Myra, besides numerous other
relatives residing in New TJlm.
When the telephone brought the
terrible news, her parents and Dr. A.
V. Seifert immediately left by auto to go
to Canby. Dr. 0. J. Seifert. and John
Forster went on the next train and the
body was brought back to New TJlm for
burial. Services will be held Thursday
morning^from Holy Trinity church.
SILK THIEVES STILL ON THE
JOB
Silk thieves are evidently still on the
job. The latest place to receive a mid
night visit from them was Hutchinson,
where burglars last Tuesday night
raided the O. A. K. Department Store
of that place and carried off silks to the
estimated value of $500. In speaking
of the robbery the Hutchinson Leader
says:
The thieves had no trouble gaming
entrance to the store. The screen was
jerked from a rear window and the sash
pried up. A two inch carpenter's chisel
and a railroad pinchbar that did the
business, were left behind. The thieves
were evidently frightened from the job
by the nightwatch or passersby and left
a lot of loot which they had planned on
taking.
Evidently familiar with the location of
the costliest portion of the stock, they
tackled the piles of silks in the front part
of the dry goods department where in a
small space was piled $2000 worth of
goods. An armful taken from the
shelves was left on a counter and another
armful was left in the rear of the store,
just outside the window, indicating very
plainly that the job was only partly
1
FROM INJURIES SUSTAINED
IN EXPLOSION
MinniMtft HUtoricftl akfci*
done and that the robbers had planned a
much bigger clean up than they pulled
off. A bolt of silk was also found on the
sidewalk at the alley crossing and one on
the Anderson road near the Milwaukee
depot, indicating that they^ left town in a
hurry.
The thieves evidently came in autos
and no doubt are members of the well
organized gang known to be working
country towns in various parts of the
Northwest.
CELEBRATING PROPERLY.
One Fourth of July conflagration was
reported for New TJlm. Some one threw
a particularly festive firecracker onto
the awning of the T. Mueller cigar store
on North Minnesota street. No, they
did not call out the fire department.
There wasn't time before the awning was
but a memory. It has been so very
dry in New TJlm this spring.
BEE HIVE HUMMING
Another big addition must be built
to the Vogel block to take care of the
increasing business of the Bee Hive store.
The addition will be two stories 48 by 48
in size and will also house a number
more offices than are now accomodated
on the second floor. Dr. Vogel will
enlarge his own suite in this way.
ELECTRICAL* ENGINEERING SHOP
Another new industry for New TJlm
opens its doors this week in a shop
at the rear of the Merchants Hotel.
There Kasson Seiter has estabL'shed
himself with all the necessary machinery
and other equipment to take care of any
work in the electrical engineering line.
He will make a specialty of electric star
ters and the overhauling of automobiles.
Mr. Seiter recently returned from the
East where he secured his equipment.
He has always been keenly interested
in Mechanics and is peculiarly adapted
to the work he has undertaken. He
made a specially good record when at
college in Washington, being retained
after the completion of his course to
carry out a series of experiments which
the professors were conducting. If there
is anything_.he- does'hot know about the
duties he has taken upon himself he will
promptly set himself to find it out and
there is no doubt he will be very success
ful.
WITH OUR SOLDIER BOYSr
The story of life at Camp Bobleter
is written by one of the members of Com
pany A, a youngster who recently joined
the company and to whom everything
in the military line is fresh and enchant
ing. For this reason the letters which
the Review will furnish from week to
week will be full of interest to all who
have boys at Camp for they will be
written with the artless self-revelation
of the boy who has nothing to conceal,
pictures of military life as the new re
cruit sees it, not as the experienced
military man will describe it perhaps,
but an honest delineation of what war
means to the boys who have to leave
their homes and loved ones and go to
the front. Read the city papers for
the reports of the seasoned newspaper
man but when you want to know just
how the boys are feeling at camp, read
the Review.
LIEUT. BIERBAUM RETURNS
Lieut. William H. Bierbaum of the
Machine Gun Co. who had tendered his
resignation to the Adjutant General of
the State prior to Capt. Juni's resig
nation and which has been hanging fire
ever since was notified of its acceptance
Saturday and Mr. Bierbaum will come
home as soon as he has properly trans
ferred the company property for which
he is responsible.
SEEKING AID FOR MAROONED
SAILORS.
Several days ago Henry Weidner,
steward of one of the interned German
ships reached New TJlm to do some
missionary work for the German sailors
who were virtually stranded here when
the German merchant marine was put
out of commission by the war. The
sailors must have something to eat and a
place to sleep. To maintain themselves
they have hit upon the most novel idea
of preparing models of the cruiser
Emden, also models of submarines and
models of German soldiers. These
models are sold and the proceeds go to
the needy sailors. Mr. Weidner's
mission is to interest the friends of the
German sailors in purchasing the models.
He was at the Fnedens church Sunday
morning and in the afternoon attended
a meeting of the members of St. Paul's
Lutheran church. Monday evening he
was present at a meeting of the St.
Joseph's Society and Tuesday afternoon
he attended the mcnics at the Lutheran
school house and the family picnic at
Turner Hall Park. He attended these
different meetings and gatherings for the
purpose of explaining his mission. These
models are really works of art and the
price asked for them is very reasonable.
They are on sale at quite a number of
places. Mr. Weidner says that he
collects no money himself. This money
must be sent either to the German Con
sulate at St. Paul or,direct to the Sea
man's Home at Hoboken, N. I.
DECISION UPHELD
BY HIGHER COURT
JUDGE OLSON'S FINDINGS IN
IMPORTANT RATE CASE ARE
AFFIRMED.
SHIPPERS WILL PAY BUT ONE
RATE OVER OMAHA AND
NORTHWESTERN
The state supreme court in an opinion
filed Friday held the Omaha and North
western railroads to be one road for
rate-making purposes in the case of the
State of Minnesota, by James Hall,
respondent, vs. C. & N. W. R.y Co. et
al., appellants G. W. Van Dusen &
Co. et al., respondents. Judge Olson
rendered the decision in the district
court and the supreme court upheld his
decision.
For legal purposes the two roads are
separate corporations. The opinion of
the court was an affirmation of findings
made by the Lyon county district court
which held against an order issued by
the state railroad and warehouse com
mission fixing joint freight rates for the
two roads.
The case found its way into the Mar
shall county district court on appeal of
Attorney General Smith and James Hall,
representing several grain shippers.
The appellants contended the joint rate
as established by the commission per
mitted overcharges and was in conflict
with the Cashman distance tariff law.
The two railroads appealed from the
reversal of the commission's order as
made by the Lyon county district court
and the supreme court Friday affirmed
the decision of the lower court. The
two roads named are interlocking to the
extent that one owns a majority of the
stock of the other. Though two sets
of offices are maintained, both have
much in common.
Passing on the question of basic..rates
the supreme court says:
"It is held that for the purpose of
establishing freight rates the two com
panies constitute one road and line and
that the intra-state continuous mileage
rates fixed pursuant to the distance
tariff law apply and that the commission
is without authority to fix a joint rate."
This case will prove far-reaching in
its effect and will mean thousands of
dollars in freight savings to consignors
who ship commodities over both roads.
The case was tried before Judge Olsen of
this city and it is certainly a feather in
his cap to have his decision upheld by
the supreme court.
Another case in which the citizens
of Brown County are interested was
decided the same day by the Supreme
Court, and in which the decision of the
lower Court in Edward F. Berkner et
al. vs. James Lewis, administrator,
Nicklas Schmitt, administrator, and
Martin Sherman, respondents was af
firmed. This has been a long drawn
out proceeding. The cases were ori
ginally started in May 1911. They
have been tried twice in District Court
before'Judge A. R. Pfau of Mankato
and have been to the Supreme Court
twice, the last decision being final.
The cases were originally started
against William Schmitt, Dudley G.
D'Evelyn and Martin Sherman of Stark in
this County and were brought for the
purpose of recovering three horses or
their value. Since the cases were started,
two of the defendants have committed
suicide and two of the horses have died,
but the cases went on just the same.
Briefly stated the facts are these.
Frank Curtright who was the owner
of the three horses in question had
mortgaged them to Willis Cunningham
and later had given a second mortgage
on the same property to Berkner Bros,
of Sleepy Eye. Instead of foreclosing
his mortgage, Cunningham and Curt
right agreed between themselves that
the mortgaged property should be sold
at public auction and that from the
proceeds Cunningham's mortgage should
be paid and this was done.
The three defendants purchased a
horse each at the public auction and
later on the Berkners made demand on
them for the horses under their second
mortgage which was refused and the
suits were started.
In the first trial the Court held that
the mortgage of Berkner Bros, was in
valid and upon an appeal to the Supreme
Court that tribunal held that the mort
gage in question was valid and for that
reason ordered a new trial. In the se
cond trial, the case was decided on its
merits against the plaintiffs and the
Supreme Court upheld the findings of
the lower Court.
NEW ULM, BROWN COUNTY, MINNESOTA, WEDNESDAY, JULY 5, 1916.
1
'~*ifc3r
SCHOOL OFFICERS
EVINCE INTEREST
LARGE NUMBER ATTEND COUN-
TY MEETING HELD AT
SPRINGFIELD
LISTEN TO TALK ON CONSOLI
DATION IN LE SUEUR CO.
SCHOOLS
A very successful meeting of the school
officers of the County was held at the
auditorium of the Springfield High
School building last Thursday after
noon, June 29th. These meetings are
held once a year for the purpose of getting
the school officers together and discuss
ing matters which are of special interest
to all concerned. Altho the meetings
are arranged for the special benefit of
the school officers from the rural dis
tricts, still the officers from the city dis
tricts are not only welcome but are
entitled to the same emoluments that
the others receive, which by the way
are $3.00 per day and mileage at the
rate of 5 cents per mile. There were 144
school officers present all told. Of these
but a small number were from the city
or village schools. The board of edu
cation from Springfield attended in a
body, there was one from Sleepy Eye
and two from Hanska. New TJlm was
not represented at all. The meeting
was called to order by Co. Supt. R. B.
Kennedy, who presided during the entire
deliberations. The first speaker was C.
K. Knox, Supt. of the Cleveland
Consolidated Schools in Le Sueur Co.
near St. Peter. He spoke on consolida
tion and its working principle and touch
ed upon all advantages that are reaped
from a consolidated school. He also
spoke about the transportation, matters
of taxation and how this system is work
ing out. He also touched upon the
general complaints that are usually
made in most of the consolidated schools
^ntjfrthe system^ nas ha| a chance tQ
adjust? itself to existing conditions. Mr.
Knox is an enthusiast for the consoli
dated schools and his talk was very
closely listened to by all present After
his talk there was a short recess. After
reconvening the questions that had been
placed in the question box were taken
up and were answered by State Supt.
C. G. Schulz. It was interesting to note
that the number of questions asked was
greater than ever before and that they
were more to the point and covered live
questions. After the question box had
been disposed of, Supt. Schulz gave a
general talk on the duties of school
officers and pointed out how the board
can by co-operating with the teacher
and also by co-operating *with one
other do a great deal toward improving
school conditions in the rural districts
especially. When it is considered that
only about one hundred were absent
of those who could have attended the
meeting and by rights should have
been there, it must be admitted that
the attendance was very satisfactory.
MANY CELEBRATE WEDDING
ANNIVERSARIES
The past week has been one of wed
dings new and weddings old, in other
words, wedding anniversaries. There
were three silver wedding celebrations
and a tin wedding besides the marriage
of the newly weds, Miss Meta Kuehlbach
and Mr. Krahn.
First in order was the silver wedding
of Mr. and Mrs. Andreas Amann Thurs
day evening. The celebration was ar
ranged by members of the St. Joseph
and St. Elizabeth Societies and was a
surprise to the Amanns when the guests
walked in on them at their home at the
Merchants Hotel. Supper was served
the guests and than all went to Schell's
Hall where the evening was joyously
spent in dancing.
Mrs. Amann was Miss Theresia Kamm
before her marriage June 29th, 1891.
She was the daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
John Kamm of Cottonwood. The
original ceremony was performed at the
local Catholic Church. The celebrants
are the parents of seven children, Hilde
garde, Andrew, Carl, Adolph, Edwin
and Frank, all of whom are living and
at home with their parents.
Mr. and Mrs. Amann were presented
with a number of beautiful and ap
propriate gifts as tokens of the good will
of their friends and neighbors and many
good wishes were expressed looking
toward the golden wedding day.
Friday's celebration was the tin
wedding of Mr. and Mrs. Emil Hempel.
It was a surprise arranged by their
friends and proved a most enjoyable
affair. Mrs. Hempel was Miss Louise
AS*B^*J&*K.
Falk before her marriage. Mr. and Mrs.
Otto Hempel of Minneapolis were among
the guests.
The next wedding on the schedule
was that of Miss Kuehlbach and Mr.
Krahn. This occurred at o'clock
Saturday evening, July 1st, at the St.
Paul's Lutheran church. Rev. Albrecht
officiating. The bride was attended by
he'- sister. Miss Pauline Kuehlbach as
maid of honor and the groom's brother,
Harry Krahn was best man. The
usners' duties were performed by Henry
Dietz and Henry Dahms.
The bride's gown was of white taffeta
and she carried daisies. The maid of
honor wore white organdie and her
flowers were roses and carnations. The
church was decorated with palms and
carnations. Following the ceremony a
reception was held at the home of the
bride's parents on Franklin Street and
a wedding supper served to the invited
guests. The house was beautifully deco
rated with daisies, peonies and car
nations.
Those present from out of town to
attend the wedding were Mr. and Mrs.
Wm. Witt, Mr. and Mrs. H. Krahn,
parents of the groom, Olga and Harry
Krahn, Mr. and Mrs. G. Bubbert, and
Mr. and Mrs. L. Wichtel, from Milwau
kee, Mr. and Mrs. E. Krahn, Storeden,
Minn., Mr. and Mrs. C. Krahn, San
born, Minn., Mr. George Krahn, Heron
Lake, Minn., and Mr. and Mrs. Gust
Albrecht, Mrs. H. L. Hindermann, Hilda
and Irma Hindermann of Fairfax, Minn.
The young people left on a wedding
trip to Chicago where they expected to
spend a week before going on to their
home in Milwaukee, and will be at home
to their friends at 588-1-2 Tenth Ave.,
in that city after the first of August.
The bride is a daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Chas. Kuehlbach and has lived all
her life in New TJlm, attending the public
schools and later was employed as
stenographer at the Eagle Mills. Mr.
Krahn is a young man who first came to
New Ulm at the time of the building of
the new schoolbouse where he was em
ployed at his trade as a carpenter. Both
are estimable young people with the best
of chances for a happy, successful life
together.
Mr. and Mrs. Gustav E. Lambrecht
'Of ^MiJiOTd^were j-fce n&xk *o^ceIebrate
their anniversary. The affair was ar
ranged by their children and their friends
ard after a drive in the afternoon tney
returned to their home to find it in
possession of the friends who had come
to do them honor.
The real anniversary of the marriage
was June 30th, it being a quarter of a
century ago since they took the .marriage
vows. The bride of twenty-five years
ago was Miss Emma Schroer and her
home was in New Ulm. Mr. Lambrecht
had always lived in Milford and when
they were married he took his bride there
to make their home. The officiating
clergyman was Rev. C. J. Albrecht and
the service was performed at St. Paul's
church in this city. Seven children were
born to the couple of whom five are
living, Alma, Arthur, Edwin, Martha
and Elsa, all still at home with their
parents.
About thirty couples attended the
wedding celebration and the jubilarians
were the recipients of many beautiful
gifts in silverware in keeping with the
spirit of the occasion.
Last but not least important among
the anniversary occasions was that of
Mr. and Mrs. Wm. F. Muesing. Their
marriage took place on July 3rd, 1891,
in the local Lutheran church and Prof.
Schaller of the College officiated. Mrs.
Muesing was Miss Louisa Hain before
she changed her name and she was a New
TJlm girl. Her husband was from
Nicollet. They have always lived here,
Mr. Muesing being a teacher in the
Lutheran school at the time of their
marriage and for many years after.
Their children, Walter, Ida, William,
Oscar and Roland are still unmarried
and all at home at this time. They lost
one little son Carl, in infancy.
The Muesings had not intended to
celebrate their anniversary with any
degree of excitement but their friends
would not have it that way and appeared
on the scene Monday afternoon and
proved to them that the* knew well how
such an auspicious occasion should be
observed. Gifts and feasting formed a
part of the program and all spent a most
happy time together.
SENDING THE NEWS
Any one who has friends among the
soldiers at camp should make it a point
to telephone to the Review office all
items of news that could possibly be
of interest to the boys because nearly
every boy in Co. A., the Machine Gun
Co. and the band is a regular reader
of the Review and a big bundle of papers
will go to them every week to keep them
posted on their home folks. Our number
is 101.
WMffT4
MINNESOTA
HISTORICAL
SOCIETY
NUMBER 27
FORCE INOCULATED
AGAINST TYPHOID
CAMP BOBLETER TROOPS BEING-
PREPARED TO FIGHT OFF
DISEASE
MEN ANXIOUSLY AWAIT ORDER
TO GO. EXPECT TO LEAVE
THIS WEEK
Camp Bobleter, July 4, 1916^
(Special to the New TJlm Review.)
Troops at Ft. Snelling are ready to
move. Orders to entrain for the south
may be received at any moment. It is
said that the troops will leave for San
Antonio, Texas, not later than Thursday
night. The muster rolls have been com
pleted and the physical examinations
are being pushed to the limit. Saturday,
Sunday and Monday the examining
officers worked till midnight.
All three regiments have now taken the
Federal Oath. Only thirty-six men in
the entire three regiments refused to
take it altho at first a large number of
men were inclined not to do so. When
the oath was fully explained to them
most of the "slackers" stepped back
into line. The Federal Oath does not
make a United States Regular out of a
National Guardsman. For the time
being he is a volunteer serving in the
Regular Army under Federal pay. As
soon as the volunteer army is no longer
needed it is sent back home and it
automatically changes back into the
National Guard in its home town.
Captain Green, the U. S. mustering
officer told the men that the Federal
Oath puts them under no new obliga
tions whatsoever. The only change is
that the men serve their present term
of enlistment under Federal pay and
that in case of actual war they may be
sent into Mexico as the last resort.
Military authorities state that the
troops will never cross the border but
that they wttT do police duty until things
quiet down. They may only be taken,
to Ft. Worth at St. Louis.
The soldiers life is jolly at Camp
Bobleter. Thousands of people visit
the boys each day. They bring cakes,
candy, fruit and tobacco for their soldier
husbands, fathers, brothers and sweet
hearts.
Friday afternoon at 1:15 o'clock the
2nd Regiment led by Co. A marched
to the Ft. Snelling parade grounds to
take the oath that put them on the
Federal pay roll. At 2 o'clock the mem
bers of Co. A were requested to uncover
their heads and to raise their right hands.
All hats went off, except one all hands
were raised, except one. Arthur Roth
refused to take the oath and was asked
to step out of line. The humiliation was
too great and shortly afterward he also
took the oath. Thus the members of
Company A kept up the reputation made
by their forefathers back in the sixties.
The members of the Machine Gun
Company also took the oath to a man.
Nine of them however will not go south
as their terms of enlistment expire with
in thirty days. The following men's
terms expire July 25th, 1916: Sergt.
Herman Jahnke, J. Stadick, F. Match,
C. Herrian, A. Grams, H. Adam, Ben
Juni, H. Windhorn and W. Abraham.
Their faces will soon be seen in New
Ulm as will also those of the band mem
bers who received their discharge by,
order of Col. Mollison for the following
reasons: Drum Major, H. Stelljes,
physical disability Sergt. J. Wartha,
honorable discharge Sergt. H. Kitz
berger, age 45, only support of wife and
two children Corp. John Hofmeister,
physical disability Corp. Wm. Lieb, onljj
support of wife and two children Corp.
O. Zupfer, only support of wife and two
children Corp. J. Schuster, physical
disability O. Schuster, support of wife
and three children E. Stelljes, physical
disability Ed. Vogel, discharged Max
Hoehne, expiration of term.
The rest of the band boys followed the
example set by Capt. Hofmeister and'
his two sons Frank and Hayden, took
the oath and thus saved the 2nd Regi
ment Band from disabanding.
All the New Ulm boys are in good con
dition due to good food and good sani
tary conditions. They are all anxious
to go south, "clean up Mexico and ^ge*
back home." The "rookies'* went fi
the rifle range Tuesday. There again
the New Ulm boys did work that was.,
well above the average.
The members of the 2nd Regimen*
were vaccinated against typhoid during:
the week. There are two mar*,
inoculations at 10-day intervals to com
plete it.
We all lined up and rolled up the h£t
(Continued oa last pact.) CV.
ffffJ
"7^1
