THE BARRE AILY TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 94.
BARRE, VERMONT. WEDNESDAY, JULY 1916.
PRICE,' OXK CENT.
15,000 GERMANS
ARE CAPTURED
IN BIG DRIVE
While Total German Casualties Thus
Far Are Estimated To Be 60,000
French Move Their Line Nearer to
Pernnnp. Hnvinrf Cantured Line of
j - 1
Trenches East of Curlu
ALSO SORMONT FARM
FACING CLOY VILLAGE
Repulsed German Infantry At
at Thiepral After the Germans
Made Artillery Bombardment-
German Troops Being Rushed To
Bolster Up the Line
British
tack
Had
BODY OF WOMAN
FOUND IN AUTO
WITH SIX MEN
All Si Were Arrested on Charge of Be
ing; Accessories to Illegal Medical
Practice Miss Margaret Ward
Was Name of the Woman.
Salem. Mm.. July ,V The body (
Mint Margaret Ward wan found by a po
liceman in an automobile with fix men,
including former Slate Representative
('limit's ti'fnnitell of I'eabiMlv, early thin
morning, and the men were arrested on
the charge of being accessories to illegal
medical practice.
I he anet were made in trout of the
home of Police Sergeant Duffee, who was
awakened and who identitied the body uh
that of hia sister-in-law. Sergeant Duffee
later went to Bon ton trying to locale
the house from which the girl l l-l
to -have been removed. O'Connell and the
other were Infer released on bail.
PARADED IN DRIZZLE.
Press Camp in France, July 5. The total number of prisoners
taken thus far in the Anglo-French offensive has probably reached
15.000. and the German losses are estimated at least 60,000.
The British have taken 11 guns, the Germans having withdrawn
most of their guns to longer ranges. It is reported that the Ger
mans are hastily sending their reserves from many points on the
western front.
Paris, July 5. The French have captured a line of German
trenches east of Curlu, the war office announced to-day, and they
have also captured Sormont farm, facing Cloy.
The advance reported indicates that the French are moving east
ward along the north bank of the Somme river in their movement
toward Peronne in the combined Anglo-French offensive in Picardy.
Cloy is the most advanced point mentioned and is four and one-half
miles northwest of Peronne.
GERMANS WILL NOT ADMIT
SERIOUS REVERSES AS YET
Berlin, via London, July 5. Violent fighting between the Ger
mans and the allies' forces on both sides of the Somme river has
been continuous since last night, says the official German state
ment. Up to the present time, the statement adds, the allies have
nowhere obtained serious advantages.
THIEPVAL HELD BY
BRITISH, DESPITE
COUNTER-ATTACK
Made Heavy Bombardment and Were Re
pulsed Easily, According to Reuter
Dispatch, German Troops Be
ing Brought to Somme.
Front.
London, July 5. A Reuter dispatch
from the western front save the Germans,
made a counter-attack on the new Brit
ish positions at Theipval after a heavy
bombardment but were easily repulsed.
The prisoners were quoted as having
(fated that German units were being
rushed to the Somme front from as far
as Verdun at the west of Lens to the
north.
According to thia dispatch, a German
officer who surrendered 1.50 ment iu a
body said he thought they would be of
more use in Germany alter t.'ic war than
dead.
COSSACKS 1. HUNGARY.
Crossed Carpathian -. Blew Up Store
house and tut Wires.
London, Julv 5. Russian cavalry pa
trols have crossed the Carpathians and
entered Hungary, according to a wireless
dispatch received here from Bucharest.
The dispatch says that the patrols ad
vanced from Kimpolung and entered
Hungarian territory on Tuesday. They
cut telegraph wires and blew up build
ings in which food and munitions wen;
stored.
It is added that the news that invaders
are again on Hungarian soil caused a
deep impression in Budapest.
THIAUMONT WORKS FELL.
All Other Features Had To Be Cancelled
at Newport.
Newport, -Inly 5. Newport' parade
took place amid a drizzling rain. The
West Derby and Memphromagog Driving
clubs, under whoso auspices the celebra
tion was held, bad to cancel all other
feetures.
Following are the prize winners: Dec
orated automobile.-. flrt, Mis. Louis I-
niond; second, C, ,1. O'Ben & Co.; third,
William J. Tripp: fourth, II. C. Davis.
Floats t irst. B. r. Moore & lo.: sec
ond, .1. A. Gemlrnn; third, F. L. Beau
lieu; fourth, Premier theatre.
Horribles First. C. Sherman: second.
Villa in a Cage"; third, "Prepared
ness ; fourth, I.. J,. Iioouttle; mm, a.
Horight.
ladies' Single Drivers First, Mrs. C.
F. Morrill; second, Mrs. I. Pickel: thid,
Mrs. Selah Dailey; fourth. Miss Shaw.
Ladies' Saddlers First. Miss I'tton;
second, Mi's Kthclvn Herrick : third, Mrs.
B. C. Davis; fourth, Hazel Mitchell.
DESiRES
PEACE
WITH U.S.
Carranza's Reply to Wilson's
Notes States That Release
of the American Troopers
Captured at Carrizal Indi
catcs Mexico's Wishes to
Reach Pacific Arrange
nients
SUGGESTS MEDIATION
TO END DIFFERENCES
TWO FIRES AT MONTPELIER.
Both Were Slight in Loss and Were Prob
ably Due to Celebration.
The Fourth of .lulv was productive of
two tires in Montpelier, one at 8 o'clock
last evening in the barn of Michael lorry
on itcrlin street ami me second at 11
o'clock on inooski avenue, the lumber
pile belonging to K. ,' Gitchell catching
tire and keeping the regulars engaged for
three hours. The damage in each in
stance was small.
Some boy, it is believed, threw a fire
tracker in the box stall of the Corry barn
catching the hay on tire, and it was with
difficulty that a horse belonging to Floyd
Goodenough was led out of the stall. A
small amount of hay was burned before
the firemen arrived but the hone was
not injured and the damage was slight.
The window in the stall jvas open and
some thoughtless person probably threw
cracker into the barn.
The second fire, the firemen believe,
was set. the lumber being saturated with
kerosene and getting a good start. The
firemen were summoned by telephone and
until 3 o'clock in the morning fought the
blaze with chemicals.
Over Two Chief Points at Is-
sue, Viz., the Withdrawal
of American Troops from
Mexican Territory and the
Proper Policing of the In
ternational Boundary Line
PEOPLE FLEE
BEFORE LAVA
Stromboli Vomits Molten
Rock, Which Is Burning
Houses as It Flows
REFUGE SOUGHT
IN RELIEF SHIPS
There Have Been Earth
quake Shocks at Various
Places in Italy
Rome, July 4, via Taris, July 5. The
eruption of Stromboli has become serious,
the lava spreading to the Spars coast
settlements, burning and destroying
houses and the population fleeing to the
sea, taking refuge on relief ships from
Messina,
There are many signs of seismic dis
turbance throughout Italy. The heat
has been intense the past two day.
Karth shocks occurred this morning at
Ancona, Rimini. Belvidere, Marettimo and
in other Adriatic districts.
FRENCH STRAIGHTENED LINE.
Elmer Coftrin of Waterbury Had Been
Under Physician's Care.
Waterbury. July .". While harnessing
a horse in the yard of Harry Harvey this
morning, Flmer CofTrin died from what
was called a double shock. "hcn Dr.
Goodrich arrived life was extinct. Mr.
CofTrin had not been feeling well for some
time, having been under a physician's
care.
He was born in Wnterhury 5.1 years
aim. the son of .In in and Mart- .fane
11. i i , vvuiiii niiii nji i r r. Till "II
nk'ht nroeerss has been mail., ut uimn 1 - .... - . ' "
By Capture of Three Villages and Ad
vance on Wide Front.
Iondon, July 5. The French troo,,s,
co-operating with the British in the
Somme river region, have straightened
their line somewhat by the capture of
Bardeaux, Bell-en-Santerie and Estrecs
and are advancing on a considerably
wider front toward Peronne.. At Ka
trees,vvhere..VH prisoners were taken, the
lighting is still going on furiously.
im the Uritish end of the line
Germans Regain Position, the Paris War
Office Admits.
Paris, July 5. The Thiaumont works,
around which some of the bloodiest fight
ing of the war has taken place, has been
captured by the Germans for the fourth
time, according to the official statement
issued by the French war office last night.
DIED HARNESSING HORSE.
FOUND MAN UNCONSCIOUS.
Oscar Potter of Rutland Had Been Hurt
in Fall.
Rutland. July 3. Oscar Potter of the
Creek road is in the Rutland hospital in
a serious condition as the result of a fall
at his home.
He was found yesterday afternoon on
the kitchen floor bv !o Shelvey, who
stopped to get a drink of water.
He picked up the unconscious man and
laid him or the couch. Hearing a com
motion in -She stable, he went to the
barn and found Votter's horse in a half
starved condition. Pitching him some
grain and oats he hurried home, where
he telephoned for medical aid.
PARADE AND SPORTS.
points. I nonicial dispatches say that
the entire British front of ninety miles
is bearing its full share of the battle, but
it Iw towards the south that the hcavie-t
fight is under way.
A high British officer is authority for
,,n n, , .u,, ircparauouj,,,,. Mj. ,. y M()0(,v of Waterburv
,..,..,,- .n , u,-r,1, iIa,k, !ani1 brotn0, (.offr- nf - , -
of a short time spent in Montpelier he
had always lived here. He married Kliz-
nbeth Ryan, who survives him. together
with one daughter. Kvaline, the wife of
Roderick Chisholm of Windsor. The
daughter happened to be visiting at the
parental home to-day. He also leaves g
Marked Celebration at St. Johnsbury
Center Yesterday.
St. Johnsbury Center, Julv 5. Yester
day forenoon a column made up of the
local band, floats, horribles and the Odd
Fellows' lodge from St. Johnsbury pa
raded. Dinner was served at the fire
men's hall by the Good Will club. The
ball game between Concord and St. Johns
bury Center was won by the locals, 5 to
.1. Charles Fast man won the hitch-up
contest and Rav Smith the oat race.
Band conceits last night closed the pro
gram.
BULLET ENTERED BEDROOM
But No One Was Hurt in a St. Johnsbury
Hotel.
St. Johnsbury, July 5. A bullet en
tered a bedroom window at the Avenue
house Monday night and was found lying
on the floor. The room was not occu
pied. A skyrocket crashed through a
show window of Randall's department
store when a mischievous boy applied a
match to a bundle of fireworks under a
man's arm. The damage was, .100.
Washington, D. C, July The Car
ranza reply to the Is it two American
notes was delivered to the state depart
ment by attaches of the Mexican em
bassv to-day. Careful study will be nee
essarv before it is determined whether
the communication satisfies the United
States demand for a definite statement
of the Carranza government's intentions
toward American troops in Mexico. Al
though the reply evades specific declara
tion on the question whether Carranza
issued the formal order which led to the
attack on Americans at Carrizal, it is
believed that President Wilson will meet
Carranza more than half way in trying to
avoid hostilities.
This conciliatory spirit does not con
template the removing of Pershing's
force from Mexican soil, however, nor
does it imply action which would remove
protection to the American border by
American troops.
The note which was later in the day
made public, says that -the immediate
release of the Carrizal prisoners is fur
ther proof that the Mexican government
desires to reach a pacific and satisfactory
arrangement of present difficulties, that
the government is anxious to solve the
present conflict, and it would be unjust if
its attitude were misinterpreted. It savs
that the Mexican government is now dis
posed, as it always has been, to seek an
immediate solution of the two points that
constitute the true causes of conflict be
tween the two countries, and it names
the withdrawal of the American troops
on Mexican territory, which it calls a
trespass on the sovereignty of Mexico,
and protection of the border.
The Mexican government is willing to
consider in a quick and practical way,
prompted by a spin,.of concord, the rem
edies which should be applied. Several
Latin-American countries offered friendly
mediation, and the Mexican government
accepted it in principle and awaits infor
mation that the I'nited States would be
disposed to accept mediation. The Mexi
can government still believes that some
results may be obtained by direct nego
tiations. In the meantime it offers to
employ all efforts at its disposal to pre
vent a recurrence which may complicate
or aggravate the situation and hopes that
the I'nited States will prevent new acts
of the military and civil authorities that
might cause complications.
The latest communication so plainly
indicates the Mexican government, like,
the I'nited States, is anxious to avert a
clash if possible that a further inter
change of views is expected to begin im
mediately, looking to joint efforts to curb
border bandit.
GRAND LIST SHRINKS
BECOMING ACCLIMATED.
TRAIN HIT AUTO.
Eastern Militia Standing Temperature of
101 Fairly WelL
El Taso, Tex.. July fi. Civil and mili
tary authorities last night began making
arrangements for a memorial service and
military funeral for the American sol
diers who fell at Carrizal.
Arrangements will not be completed
until those in charge learn the time of
the arrival of the bodies, which include
those of Captain Charles S. Boyd and
Lieutenant Henry Adair. It is planned,
however, that the bodies shall lie in state
at Fort Bliss. Citizens began to collect a
lund for floral offerings.
Because of Exemptions on Book Accounts
Real Estate Increased.
Lacking a quorum because some of the
members did not reach the city in time
to answer the rollcall at 7 o'clock the
fit v council did not settle into its regu
lar session Monday evening until well
after 0 o'clock, and then the business con
sisted almost wholly of approving the
months accumulation of warrants. AI
derman Rogi is in Iing Island, X. Y.
and wasn't expected to be present. Al
lerman Glvsson was hurrying home from
an outing at Highgate Springs, but didn't
get under the wire in time to join in the
brief deliberations at the late session
It was only when Alderman Bnice, one
of the punctual four who reported at 7
o'clock, chartered the water department
jitney and motored to Berlin pond that
Alderman Reynolds was drafted to make
up the quorum.
At hand much earlier than usual i me
annual report of the assessors, which was
read and ordered printed in the city re
port to be issued in February. 1917. This
year's erand list of $83,032.3:! represents
a shrinkage of $2,008.34 from the list of
1P1S, a decrease accounted for by the ex
emption on book accounts. Real estate
amounts to $4.o3?.P25, an increase of
$tl.715 over last year. A falling off of
$2115.74!) from 1015 was represented in
the personal property, which totals $085.-
SOS. Here, again, the exemption on book
accounts is felt. Taxable polls number
3.410, a gain of one over last year. Ex
emptions included: Veterans and widows,
$2.") (where real estate does not exceed
$I,"iOO in valve); 14 veterans, poll taxes,
$28; 41 persons over 70 years of age,
$82; disabled or poor. 13 persons. $26.
Minor building permits wefe granted
Frank W. Nichols.-Grace I. Bond and the
D. M. Miles Coal Co.. on the favorable
recommendation of the building inspec
tor, and lighting permits were received
by William M. Holden. S. H. Jackson and
the Montpelier 4 Barre Lighting & Power
Co. A petition from Beech street resi
dents for an extension of the water and
sewer mains was referred to the street
committee. Requests from Fritz W.
Jackson and Harry Quinlen for permis
sion to sell fireworks were granted with
the usual restrictions. F. H. Tracy's bill
for hoarding Joseph Broggini at the conn
v jail was referred to the overseer of
tne poor.
The resignations of K. D. McAllister
and M. J. Hamel from the call fire de
partment were received and accepted.
On the motion of Alderman Healv the
nited States government was given an
abatement on its 1!15 sprinkling tax, the
prmkling having been done in the vi
cinity of the postoffice. G. A. Paequet'a
request for permission to sink a gasoline
tank at the corner of Merchant and Sum
mer streets was referred to the fire and
street committees.
"-.TIP CELEBRATION
WAS CURTAILED
There Wi Scarcely a Ut-up in the
Drenching from Morninf Till Night
Arab Patrol Picnic Mostly
a Band Concert.
i
Just plain, ornery weather of the kind
that has made most people feel that this
bad summer of 101B is followed by a
jinx the most absorbing feature of
Bane's Fourth of July observance. Ab
sorbing, because it wined hard enough to
absorb everyone's plans for a holiday in
the open, absorbing because there was
moisture ami enough to engulf every
thing that would have been useful ill a
celebration of the old-fashioned sort.
From dewy dawn until the approach of
dusk it rained, rained, rained. There
were infrequent intervals when the skies
seemed to be faking a breathing spell,
but the intervals were garbed in those
drab clouds that portended nothing but
more rain and ho the heavens continued
to exude, emit, dispense and dissipate no
body knows how much water. Xobody
cares- now.
Beginning hours before the restrictions
on the sale of fireworks were off. the
noise of "the night before" continued
without interruption until the well known
first streaks of dawn in the east. Horn
tooted and firecrackers were discharged
sporadically Itefore the mystic hour of
midnight arrived. Manv people were
abroad and bv some the excessive show
ing of patriotic exuberance was likened
to the good old times when father was a
bov. Bonfires were started in several
sections of the city, but there were those
dulv clothed with authority who saw to
it that the youngsters in charge of the
fires were kept within bound. Chief
Sinclair had an extra detail of police as
signed to strategic beats and order pre
vailed throughout. Celebrators were not
disposed to lie boisterous aYid the night
doings, on the whole, were quite as or
derly as the very mild and moist ob
servance that began with daylight.
Public and family picnickers, setting
out early for outing grounds near the
city or far enough away to necessitate
motor transportation were the first to
sense the real disappointment of those
who had their plana all framed for the
day. Here iu the city most of the stav-
at hornets were looking forward with eag
er anticipation to the Shriners' picnic at
Granite City park. In midforenoon the
Montpelier Military band assembled at
the park anil gave a concert. It was
scheduled to be the first of a series of
events designed to make the outing not
able in a red-letter day in the annals of
Mount Sinai temple, but promoters of
the affair and patrons alike were doomed
to disappointment, in big packages. Com
ic baseball in the form of a diamond con
test between the fats of Barre and Mont
pelier, a tug of war, foot races and final
ly the opening of the ermont state
league in Barre with the Italian Athletic
club end Montpelier as "the contenders,
were among the entries for the day.
Alas and alack, those loyal spirits who
foregathered on the grounds were to wit-
ness almost none of these. Concession I
aires were on the field with ice cream
cones and soft drink. Thev thrived not
at all. It was too dank and humid for
such picnic accessories and for the most
part the crowd of 200 people resigned
themselves.
In the evening there were rather strik
ing pyrotechnic displays, which is an
other way of saving that manv young
sters and grown-ups joined in setting off
fireworks. There was little evidence of
disposition to exceed the bound of
reason in celebrating and so a Fourth
that was too waterlogged to be anything
but safe and sane came to an end.
AUTO TIPPED
OVER IN CRASH
Four Occupants Hurled to
the Road but Not Se
riously Hurt v
SIX OCCUPANT?
OTHER CAP A.-APED 1
sv'
Both VeK y,; One a Jitney,
Badl simaged on the
Montpelier Rord !
Two Ford automobiles collided, head
on near the residence of Arthur Young
on the Montpelier road at ft o'clock last
evening, and the four occupants of the
Montpelier-bound vehicle were thrown
out as the car tipped over, while the
other car, bound for Barre and carrying
six peesons, remained upright although
dragged around at more than right angles
to the highway. Mrs. G. A. Waters of
Starksboro sustained bruises and cuts on
her right hand, and Charles Benedict,
aged 75, of Gouldsville, complained of a
strain to his back. Mr. Waters and Mrs.
Benedict in the same car escaped injury '
except that the former got a bruise on '
his right knee. None of the occupants of ;
the other car was injured. The cars were .
numbered 1550, which is used as a jitney .
and is registered in the name of Hyman
Carr of Montpelier, and f73, registered
in the name of G. A. Waters of Starks
boro.
The collision occurred at a wide point
in the highway, with the electric car.
track adjoining. After the accident, each
driver insisted that he was on the right
side of the road ' nd was tooting his horn ;
vigorously. Had that been the case there ;
would have been no reason for a collision.
Neither was proceeding rapidly, so the
drivers said, the jitney going slowly be- ;
cause its passengers had insisted on "safe
ty rather than speed and the other, as
Mr. Waters states, because he had two
elderly people who disliked rapid loco
motion at night time. However, the im
pact was sufficient to put both vehicles
out of commission for the time being.
The jitney, being the more heavily
loaded, was kept upright as the cars
locked, and the six people in it were
hardly more than jarred. Its front axle :
was sprung and the mudguards were
bent. The other car did not come out of '
PICNIC DESPITE RAIN.
WOMAN FURNISHED BAIL.
Andres Garcia. Mexican consul, said
But Dr. J. M. Allen of St. Johnsbury Was ! that the train carrying the bodies prob-
Not Hurt. :ablv would reach here late in the week.
The special train carrying three Kl Paso
undertakers and eight Mexican laborers
as the resourcefulness, determination and
fighting qualities as well as the power of
their defenses, are Well recognized.
Although the French are making a
f-teady advance in the Somme sector
without apparently heavy casualties and'
St. .Tohnsbury. July 5.-Dr. J. M. Al
len's automobile was struck by a chitting
locomotive on the Portland stieet cross
The funeral probably will be held at in ccrday. The doctor saw the ap
St. Andrews' church Friday morning.
A Body Brought from Montreal
1 he body of Robert Traverse, who wa
now face an eaier task, according to ex-!"' on a railroad crossing at Montreal
pert opinion, to reach their objective, the
river itself, the Verdun army is engaged
in particularly heavy fighting, the Ger
mans not having permitted the battle of
the .Somme to interfere with their oper
ations for the capture of the great for
tress. On the Verdun front the Germans
' hare taken the Thiaumont work for the
fourth time, after a terrific bombard
ment and by a massed attack. Aroun.I
this work, which has been the center of
de-perate attacks and counter atUck
ir many days pa-t thousand of mei
have fallen, for this is a position whi-h
i essential to the liermans for carryiiig
their advance nearer to Verdun itx-!:,
nd to the Frenh to keep the-r rcsi.-t-n
e intjet.
"inn- i-i in niiij- nome irom work, was
brought to Waterburv yesterday noon
end the burial was held' in Holy Cross
cemetery in the afternoon, a funeral hav
ing been held in Montreal.
Mr. Traverse was 40 years of ap and
was the son of Mr. and Mrs. John Trav
erse. He leave. besides bis parents, fiv
si-ters and two daughters. Mrs. A. B.
Phillips of Waterbury is a sister and
James Traverse of Waterbury is an
uncle.
preaching engine too late to apply hia
brakes and the auto was jammed be
tween the locomotive and a post beside
the track. Considerable damage result
ed to th automobile, but Dr. Allen
emerged unhurt.
HAND BLOWN OFF
Call to National Banks.
Washington, D. C. July 5 The comp
troller of the currency to-day i-ued a
csll for the condition of national banks
o June 3f.
When He Failed to Throw Giant Cracker
Soon Enough.
Framingham, Mass.. .Inly 5. Three
persons were injured in a Fourth of July
accident here yesterday. William Halley,
a steeplejack, filled a giant cracker with
dynamite and was about to hurl it into
I the streft w hen it exploded and blew off
his right band. The explosion carried a
! finger of the hand through the plate gla
window of a dnur store, putting out the
eye of the clerk. Clarence Bell. Hsliey's
brother i al- injured by the explo
sion. All three were taken to the bo-,
pit at.
who will exhume the bodies, reached Villa
Ahumada last night.
Vaccination of the Massachusetts and
Pennsylvania soldiers on the station here
againt typhus, typhoid and smallpox
diseases rampant in northern Mexico, was
begun by army medical authorities yes
terday. A maximum temperature of 104 was
recorded in F.I Paso yesterday, btil mili
tary authorities asserted that the guards
men here from the Atlantic seaboard
states are rapidly becoming peelimated.
BURIED AT BELLOWS FALLS.
Simple Services Were Held for Mrs. Het
ty Green.
When Arraigned in Barre Court on the
Charge of Keeping Disorderly House.
Official scrutiny of doings in darkest
Depot square is said to have prompted
the arrest last night of Mrs. Mabel Bruce,
who occupies a suite of rooms at Xo. 14,
over the coal office. This morning Mrs.
Bruce was arraigned before Magistrate
H. W. Scott on a charge of keeping a dis
orderly house. She entered a plea of not
guilty and bail of $500 was furnished.
A hearing will be held in the ease on the
morning of July 12 at 0 o'clock. Mr.
Bruce appeared in court without counsel.
She was taken in custody by Officer
Harry Gamble on a complaint made to
Grand Juror William Wishart.
It is said that the police have the
names of several persons who are likely
to be asked to take the stand when the
hearing begins. On the night before the
Fourth officers visited Mrs. Bruee's apart
ments' and during their sojourn a number
of people called. Their names were se
cured and they were told to keep away
from the premises in the future.
AT OLD RED SCHOOLHOUSE.
More Than t.000 Attend Celebration in
South Wfceelork.
South Wheelock. Julv 5. More than
1.000 persons attended the celebration at
J. Pluvius Could Not St9p the Bonaccord
Football Club.
Unpleasant conditions outdoors did not
deter the Bonaccord Football club from
holding its annual outing at Caledonia
park yesterday and w hen the rain abated
a bit in the late afternoon some of the
field sports planned for the picnic were
under way for a time. A special train
leaving the city over the Montpelier &
Wells River railroad at 10:. VI o'clock car
ried picnickers to the grounds and others
went to Caledonia bv team and auto.
Necessarily, much of the celebration took
place in the park pavilion, where a local
orchestra played throughout the after
noon. There were many dancer".
Results of the athletic events are given
as follows: Ladies' place kick, Miss Xicol
1st, Mrs. Webster 2d; single mines race,
Miss Melvin 1st, Miss Geals 21 ; married
ladies' race, Mrs. lnnes 1st, Mrs. Kerr 2d;
old men's race, W. Melvin 1st. A. Wood
2d. W. Rrodie 3d; boys' race (10 years)
G. Ironside 1st. J. Brown 2d,r. Melvin
3; girls' race (10 yearsl F. McDonald 1st,
C. Gordon 2d, V. McDonald 3d; boys' race
(14 vears) C. ebster 1st. J. Brown 2d;
boys' race 112 yearsl G. Ironside 1st, C.
Webster 2d; girls' race (14 yearoi G.
Wildgoose 1st, A. Taylor 2d, C. Gordon
Id; air gun competition, . Kerr It, G.
Ironside 2d; quoitinj contest, G. Mowatt
1st, W . Kerr 2d. On account of the
weather a more, extended program of
sports had to be abandoned.
Although some of the features of the
outing had to be cancelled, it was gen
erally aereed that the picnic was well
worth while and when the time came for
going home there were many who left the i
park reluctantly. The committee in
charge of the affair was m-ide up as fol
lows: lieorge Mowatt. president; J.
Coutt. J. Cobban. .1. Maver. '. Gray, J.
Fraser. G. McLean. S. Sargent. A. Ros.
T. Xieol. W. Innes. W. Kerr. A. Brown,
F. McPherson. A. Ben7ie and A. W. Cor
mack, secretary.
the smash as well; nor did its four oc
cupants. In being tipped over, it fell on
Mrs. Waters and Mr. Benedict so that ,
they could not be released until the oc
cupants of the other vehicle, with the
aid of nearby residents, had set the thing
back on its wheels. A hurry call was :
sent to Barre, and two ambulances re
sponded, together with a physician and
the police. It was soon learned that the
occupant were not so baijly injured as
at first thought, and Mr.iiid Mrs. Wa
ters and Mr. and Mrs. Benedict were
carried to the Union house in Montpe
lier, where Dr. J. R. Grimes was called to
attend them. The jitney passengers. Mr,
and Mrs. W. C. Bingham of Montpelier,
.Miss huith Goodrich and Leon Seaver, '
both of Williamstown. and another man
on the seat with the driver continued the
trip to Barre by electric car.
Mrs. Waters is a niece of Mr. and Mrs,
Benedict and she and her husband were
proceeding to the Benedict home in
Gouldsville after spending the day in ,
Harre as the guests of relatives. During
the excitement following the crash Mr.
Waters fell over backwards while assist
ing Mr. Bingham of the other car in
carrying Mrs. Waters to the side of the
road, but he soon recovered. Within a,
short time all four passenger in the
Starksboro car were being carried to the
hotel in Montpelier.
The two cars, each headed in the di
rection of Montpelier, were left on tho
side of the road, where they had been
pushed by willing helpers, until mechan
ics could look them over and see what
repairs would be required before thpy
could be moved. The Starksboro vehicle
looked as if it had been through hard
usage, the front axle ami wheels bein? .
bent, the mudguards jammed and glass
ware shattered. The wreckage was in
spected by a large number of people, who
came by oil kinds of conveyance within
a remarkably short time, the rumor of a
serious accident having spread rapidly.
COAT AS SLASHED
BV ANGRY RIVAL
the old red srhoolboue yesterday. Band
oncerts were a feature in the forenoon
PLACED UNDER $300 BAIL.
Driver of Auto, One Occupant of Which
Got Fracture of Skull.
Brattleboro. July S. Harry Bovd was
arraigned yesterday in municipal eouit
and held under :i"il bail on a charge or
assault to await the result of the injur'
Ernest Hulett of Montpelier Not Injured
When Man Said to Have Been Peter
Ruize Tried to Reach Him
with Weapon.
Jealousy is said to have been the mo
tive which prompted Peter Ruize tf
attick Krnest Hulett. a plumber, on
Barre street. Montpelier. last evenin,'
with a knife and resulted in Ruize
being arrested by Chief of Police P. .7.
Connolly, charged with assault with in
tent to kill. Ruize was located by
the police after an hour's search and he
made no profst when marched to tha
jail.
HuMt was escorting a woman when he
was asailed by Ktiize, who, it is re
ported, has been paying attention to the
same person. Hulett told the police that
ies received Monday afternoon bv M;s. !
William M. Randall who was thrown or! the Italian attempted to get at his eem-
fell from an automobile driven by Royd panin but was stopped and then Ruize
in the Wet river covered briilce. Mi-a 'nulled out a knite and made a ela-sh
and the afternoon saw many hotly con-jFdith Walker, the third occupant of the; for Hulett's stomach. The point of the
tested sports. " (runabout, was held under ?2.'m lionds j knife just grazed his coat, cutting a elah
The team from Glover won over St. as a itne. She was able to furnish about four inches long. According to
Bellows Fall. July .V Mrs. Hettv 'johnsbury in the tue-ofwar. In the it he bonds. Byd w as taken to Xewtane ' Hulett. who came pantinz into the polke
Ureen wss buried here to-day with simple
ceremonies, besid' the body of ber hus
band, who died It years go. in the fam
ily lot in Kmmsnuel Fpi-op church
cemetery. Flowers wcr writ from all
over the country. Tv hundred people
attended the sr" ices.
hall irm hriitrrii a l.vwdon tim nd!iil in default of the bonds. station with his story ab-nt l oVlock,
another made up of Stl Johnsbury and j Mrs,. Randall, who has a fractured ku'! ! Ruize did n"t make a second effort
Whwlok men. all former attendant, at ;and other injuries was reported f have! to rut him up but hurried away. The
the old red chon!heaie. the latter outfM 'shown no material improvement :n-e j pnpee immediately mjde for the scene
was h,tewaheH. 1n O. A band ntv her admiion the Memorial hospital, i hut found no trace of the msn for ecver
cert and danee in The hall last n'ghtiThe surgeons bold out little or no hop an hour. When arrestM he did not hav
closed the celebration. of ber r-oovrry. any weapon on bis person.
s
1
