..rfl
Ihi
HmiU.
KLAMATH COUNTY'S
OFFICIAL .NEWSPAPER
KLAMATH FALLS'
OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER
m 111 m n i in i i mi i i
Tenth Vtir-Nt, S,OM
KLAMATH FALLS, OREGON, WEDNESDAY, JULY 5, 191$
i-iummn
f V
STRAHORN PARTY
WILL REACH HERE
IN A FEW WEEKS
MEMBERS OP CREW ARK HERE
FOR, FOURTH
A Hero of Carrizal
Headquarters It New ai CTburn Ranch,
Tnla Side af Benansa, and Rautt to
Klamath Pall la Through Vonna
Valley and Alant Lett Rlvtr to
Olene Chltf Engineer Bogus It Alto
In Town Today,
In a month or" Ms weeks the survey
of the proponed route of the Oregon.
California 4k Eastern Railway from flll
vor Uko to Klaaaath Falls will bo com
pleted, according to Chief Knglneer N.
If. Bogue of the Strahorn Interest. At
present the survey crew In stationed
at the Joe Coburn ranch, two ml lew this
tide of Yalaax.
Bogur, who U nmiod in the general
work all over the proposed ayatam, J.
C. McLeod, who la chief of the party
working tbl way, and the thirteen
meaabeiM of hi crew are all In Klam
ath FIU. coming In to attend the ball
games and spend the fourth.
The rout from Yalnai in through
Yoaaa Valley, then along Lost River
to Oltae, and from Olene into Klam
ath FaUa.
I1 "awn i tmammmmtmmmtmtM
gjngggggggggggTh...
I a-BaBs.
! BgHIHsgBBBB.
LammVkMBiaBmw
EJa-W I
Leasmmtn. I
aaamtflm.mmml '
l-ft.B&-ftHHV
i BMjBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBgsaeU
1 lammmmVamW .asr
f Uk BBBBBBBBBBBBBkBBF' JBl
aaWW A
Carranza
- - -,,-!- -iifnT jviiriiJiirrvnirun-rLTLru'L'U'wxru-ui u
n, WBuniisuflY, JUJ-rY S, 191$ Prise Five Centa
s Note More Friendly
VIOLENT BATTLE
STILL RAGES i
BANKS OF SOMME
OERMAN TROOPS ARE SHIFTED
t FROM VERDUN
Generals of National
Guard on the Border
British Claim to Have Made Some Ad
vsnees, and French Also Announce
Cains Along the River Otrmany Ad
mits the Battle, Is Hot, and Telia of
Repulse of Russians After Most
Bloody Fight
I United I'u-kii Service
LONDON, July C General Sir Doug
Inn HuIk report the British have made
further progreiiH since Monday In their
, western offensive. Last night they
CaptMln Lewis H. Morcy of the Tenth ml another advance between Ancre
ravalrv wn. It... ,.n.. Amnrlr.n aHIm...'"'"! the SomiUO River. TWO German
CfPr. UWtS J. MORF
BOB HONSAKER IS
SHIPPING HORSES
who escaped alive from the fight" at
Carrizal. He made u gallant defense
In an adobe house until sun down. Four
men with him tried to carry him off at
......
night, but believing he was about to
die from bin wounds, he wrote a report
or the fight II In men tried to lead him
away, but after walking a short dis
tance ho felt be would not last, and he
directed them to go. Later he recov
ered sufficiently to wander ten miles
over the Mexican desert till be found
n house of a friendly American ranch
er, where be was cared for till Amor
lean troop found him. Captain Moray
had Just returned .from the Phlllp
! pines, where he had been detailed with
the Ninth cavalry. He was horn la
New York, Juno 19. 1876. being ap
pointed a cadet to West Point from
Texas June 16, 1896. He made a !
The work of lading military horae
for rfollla ft I'latt of Denver is a Job
that la keeplns Dob Huasaker busy
these days. Thursday he sent out sev
en carloads, and Monday he shipped , second lieutenant In the Twelfth cav
two can of steeds. tnlry February 2, 1901. He was then
Huasaker expects to ahlp again the. promoted to a captulncy In the Twelfth
last of the week. Klamath county Is March 1, 1911. Ho also ha seen ser-
sending out big shipments of horses vice with the Seventh cavalry. Ho Is a
to arms In California and In different distinguished graduate of the Army
parts of the Middle West j Staff College.
.attacks near Thlepvul were repulsed.
(icruiau units that have been Dgbtint,'
ut Verdun appeared against the British
In the QKbting north of the 8omme to
day. They were transferred In the
pust row hours.
Several German officers marched up
to the British, surrendering 100 men.
"We are of more use to Germany
alive after the war than dead," said
one.
The French ure within three mile of
I'errone, an Important railway center.
United; Press Service
ntllLIN. July &. A violent battle
ulong both sides of the Somase is re
ported in today' official statement
French attacks to the northwest of
Thlaumont continue, but so far have
been repulsed,
i'rince Leopold ha defeated the Bus-
xIuhb near Baranovltochl, after several
da of stubborn, close fighting. Both
Hide suffered heavy loaaea.
Klamath People Observe
Fourth Here and Abroad
'
Klamath county people were much In . Round Lake until the neighbors for
United 1'iesa Service
PARIS, July 6. The official commu
nique announces that the French have,
resumod the drive along both banks of
the Sommo. They have captured the
German trench line east of Curlu, and
have taken Sormont farm, on a com
manding eminence.
evidence at the celebrations In Ashland
and In Dorria, but there were atlll
enough people on hand to make a suc
cessful observance of the natal day
at Swan Lake, Fort Klamath, Midland
and Round Lake, and to make up the
biggest crowd yet assembled this year
at a baseball game. Despite the fact
that there were hundreds of others to
different parte of the county, the gate
miles around Knew that Independence
Day had dawned. From then on It waa
a continual round of pleasure for all.
By 11 o'clock sa crowd of US. people
had gathered to enjoy the festivities.
A sumptuous dinner was served,
which everyone present highly en
joyed, and tho tables fully proved, that
this Is "a land of plenty." The follow
Ing short hut appropriate and Inter-
SOCIALISTS NAME
A COUNTY TICKET
CONVENTION HKLD YESTERDAY
BY PARTY WA8 WELL ATTEND
EO, AND COMMITTEE 18 NAMEO
TO HANDLE CAMPAION
I MEEtM HjflHaSBH sjsaeaeBeBeBeBeBeBeaePdlseBaBeBeBeBV X
BBBBMHfTjff'T'T-t,,v y 9M Lggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggt
UKSttK''m-!'0m2fltiRBtm BN"bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb
gaBaEfcam t?fcEfiaMga -v-- 4 ' & JtiagaEaa aEaEaEaEaEaEaEaEaEaEaEaEa
WkM ttUyflKr 1 v4EBBEBBEBaBf sPLggjMMBBBBlglBkakk
KW JH f?yV V1 'HBBggw ,BaEaEaPPEaEaEaEwEamiB4aw
HKfHtrimM ebbebbeV I ir artTSHtp JbIbcebbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbik.
kJalawBmC SgB JsT w i& if gTi?aTjJlaga sT 4 ukaV'k'TaSBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBj H
nSriiPliPSLaW J I BvMd.:'.i' tv '-iUclBF'EBBBBBBBBBBBBl I
aefc' .ijagr" Jir 1 JiJ,'lSv vwss 'aaBBBBEaEaTI
'9hShJBBBBTaMr T&tmiik A sMafBBBBBBBBBBBBfl
("BadBEC.Et '??s7ain :Ufc. aaaagaaaaaaay
amillBajBfJBBBBBBl H-Xivi i "- . T"
EBBBBwBall'lWu.
MEeflBaWeflt 't)'i
E'BBBlBBM3?smv - "
BBBBBaaWL.? BBEBBBBBBBBBkie-v Sk tw.VK'iu-.i
BEBBafaVSBfaKeryv
BBBK'EBawV's NpV 4
llagPAgPigMlsi'aaidk
rft E9
MFKC?f
SUGGESTS MEDIATION
OF DIFFERENCES; MAY
MEAN WITHDRAWAL
(
I a
United Press Service .ported favorably today la an admiaie-
WASHINGTON, D. C. July 4. The tratlon revenue bill designed to raiae
text of Carranzs's reply to the Amer- I210.000eo to pay for rrriaradajaea
lean note waa published -toda v. This moves and the Mexican expedition,
latest communication Is completely pa- TOe home considers the hill tomor-,
ciflcatory. rrow.1
, In this note Carranza emphasizes fte , The department of Justice resorted' a.
Immediate release of the Carrizal pris- Mexican spy arrested on the border
oners upon American demand as Indi-, yesterday. He had a comauaieetloa
eating Caraaaza's friendiineas. to a Mexican commander coataJajSaf
u aiso maxes rormai announcement ?details of the disposition of tie Xaaer-
or tne de facto government's favorable'
attitude toward mediation of existing I
lean, forces. Later he was released oat
account of lack of laws for hia prose'
cutioa.
differences. The American govern
ment is left the privilege of deciding
whether mediation or direct negotia
tions should be used to settle differ-!
encea. I
Cmrraaia again emphasises his claim !
that the presence of the American;
troops in Mexico is causing embarrass
ment. The withdrawal demand, howj
ever, la not repeated.
The state department announces that t j
the admlaistratloB la willing to Con' 'LUMBERMEN take mibW asib
TWO MORE ARE ;
MARRIED HERE
tiaue MexicaB negotlatioas, U new or
the friendly tone of the net.
JUSTICE OP THE PEACE BOWtN
,"iW, trKZ'ti ?"W" I
PERfORMt THE MATMMOMIAL I
8PLICINJOB v ' f
Two more marriages were perterMd
a with- this week by Klamath county "mar-'"-,
rjrhV jedfe," Jaattee of the i Peace .
7A-CtTfi'AJL
"vj xvxeiar
Illinois, Pennsylvania and New York
will send the largest number of na
tional guardsmen to the Mexican bor
der, and they will be commanded by
these generals. Each one will have
quite an army in his charge, an army
sufficient to meet any force Carranza
has so far mustered In his Mexican experience.
THRONGS 60 TO WILL SELL LOTS
United Press Service
COLUMBUS. H. M. Jnlv G MIU. 1
tary men believe an order for the with-,
drawal of American, troops from Mex-'t
ico is Imminent It is unofBcIallyi
stated that Pershing favors
drawal if intervention is not
Plated.
The establishment ot heavy border W" "fciMoaday Krfomed the
patrols will probably follow the with-1 caBonjr makJa ray Goddard and
drawal. visa Verda Jardln au aod wif. satk.
..... "" ". U known here, having resided ta
uutea iress service . .. v.
EAGLE PASS, Julr 5.-Scouts re-j" """
port General Morguay moring several I w,u mke tte,r 8t O, where
thousand meri from Pledras Negras to j tne ktooib' to Bring tie Pelican Bay
Allende, a railroad town forty miles' Lumber company's locomotive. -'i
south. No motive Is known for the( This afternoon Gowea united, is
movement , , m,
imarrtage George M. King and Myrtle
United Press Service "' unuV- have resided at AK
WASHINGTON, D. C. July 5. The soma, but they leave In the moralaf
house ways and means committee re- for Seattle to inmslii ''
receipts ,t yesterilay'a hall gamo woro est Ing program waa enjoyed by all;
the blggeat of the three game aerie. "America" fJed by Mrs. Wler
Another atriklna feature la coanec! Recitation ... Master James Whltlatcb
tloR with the Fourth was the fact that
the local merchants and business
houses did the biggest pre-Fourth busl
neas In history, and thla with attrac
tlo&s elsewhere to call the crowds
way,
ai tne Fort the ball game, races,
patriotic addresses and other sports
mode the day memorable. The celebra
tion continues there, and the Klamath
and other Indiana are taking a proaal
neat part
At Bwan Lake there were about 100
people oa band to attend the big plcaic
dlMer, aad to Join In the dancing in
K W. Snyder's big red barn. Captain
O. C. Applegate made the principal ad
dress, and there were talks by others,
races and all manners of fun, making
Mrs. C. G. Hunt
Recitation
Roadlng ...
AddroBH Colonel T, O. Hague
The crowd then retired to the
"Round Lake Cafeteria," where they
wero served with ice cream and lomon
ade. The rest of tho day was Riven
over to games and comic races, in
cluding a tug-of-war, Mack races, throe
logged races, hopping races, etc, At a
latn hour the happy assemblage dls-
persed, all returning home well pleased
with the day's celebration.
A socialist ticket will figure In the
Klamath county campaign In the fall,
us a ticket waa named at yeaterday'a
convention of v the socialist party of
Klamath county. There was a large
attendance of members from all over
Mrs. M, J. Cllne the county, and tho convention went on
record as being opposed to war with
Mexico. The following wero nominat
ed oh candidates for tho fall electien:
Circuit Judge-J. W. Tyrell.
Circuit court clerk L. 0. Sllvey.
County commissioner G. J, Zlnk.
County clerk Maud Sink.
Sheriff Ben Faua of Merrill. .
Treasurer L. J. Mortenson.
Surveyor Theodore D. Young of
Midland.
DORRIS TO ROOT
GAME BETWEEN KLAMATH FALL8
AND WILLOW8 18 ATTENDED BY
MANY KLAMATH PEOPLE QAM E
HERE 8UNDAY
I
Big Time at Midland Assessor J. M. Robin of Swan Lake.
Resident! of Mt. Laki, Henley and j School superintendent Charles
tho Spring Lake districts were In evl- Sherman of Pelican, Bay.
dence at yeaterday'a celebration at.
Midland, whtoh proved highly enjoy
able for all attending. There waa a
;:!.!!UM, mnaotM9 tor ,n ' and free lemonade was served. Attor-
w WBhesWWJ
At Round Lake
A grand celebration and basket plo
to were held at Round Lake yester
day, the bUIwssr of the early morning
lU broken by the cannonading at
my It. C. 0 roes beck of thla city de
livered, an inspiring patriotic address,
and there were horse races and a num
ber of races and other contests. After
the program, dancing was enjoyed at
the Martin Bros. UfwlrelratfR
I
m..elM ut nMAu 1 t Dlfti. A
winutvi nviuiuv n cmiivt ui
Morrljl.
Coroner Frank 11. Turner.
Justice of the. peace, JJnkville dis
trict C. iA. Bdler.
Constable, Llnkvlllo district Robert
a wwte,- ! ; V"
The following committee was named
to handle the' campaign for the party;
J. W. Tyrell. Frank Turner and L. J,
Morteasof, ! .1 ' .
ft
TODAY AT DORRIS
WILLOW8 7
KLAMATH PALL8 2
'
There was a big exodua of the loyal
fans today, as hundreds of them went
to Dorria to root for the Klamath team
in ita game with the Willows Giants
today, The Wiliowa team la one of the
best on the Coast and Klamath Falls
haa no reason "to be ashamed of her
OE DELINQUENTS
COUNCIL IN8TRUCT8 THE POLICE
JUDGE TO ADVERTISE FOR SALE
PROPERTY OF THOSE OWING
PAVING CHARQE8
Determined to secure the settlement
of the delinquent paving assessments,
the council has instructed Police Judge
Leavltt to advertise for sale the prop
erty of tho delinquents along all paved
streets who did not take advantage of
tho Bancroft act
The foreclosure method has been de
cided upon after many notices were
sent to tb,ese people, without any re
bponso from the property owners.
Col. Gantenbein Accepts
Offer of Local Company
Klamath Falls men's offer to raise a or the muster nto said forces of a
company ror the proposed Oregon vol- man who haa had prior eallated service
unteer regiment has been accepted by. In the regular or volunteer forces of
Colonel C. U. Gantenbein. He haa the United States,
written his acceptance, and suggests! "I would request that you forward
mat Klamath Falls -ana Lakevlew co- me daily a list of men signing as will-
operate If a full company cannot be or
ganized here.
The gist of CRonel, Gantenbein's
letter follews:
"In answer to your telegram I beg to
say that the field officers of the pro
log to enlist, with their ages and
statement as ta whether they are mar-J
rled or unmarried. I have forwarded a
copy of this letter to Mr, Young for
his Information." .
Under the new 'defease act the
posed tentative? regiment of United l!t?"l!!il,!S 'T.
follews: r
Chllloquln "Fishing Falling Off
With regret the followers of Isaac
.Walton will leirn that tha flakln In
A special tram left ut 10 o'clock, and .the Williamson and 8prague rivers has
carried a big crowd of fans. In addi
tion, scores of auto parties also made
the trip.
The Willows players will spend a
few daya la the Klamath country, see
ing Crater Lake and enjoying the tsa-
commenced to fall off. Those who vis
ited that section yesterday were dis
appointed in their catch. Old timers
at tho game In that neighborhood say
that this is the usual thing. As the
water Tn the rivers warm up the trout
Ing. and Sunday afternoon, they will i0ek the higher points of the streams,
play Klamath Falls again, this time at where the springs keep the water at a
asouoc rare, lower temaeratura all that vur mimd
Mates oluuteer infatr.rv would be
pleased to rave a company recruited at
Klamath I f lis. I have nix received a
telegraoi from C. H. Yo 1 1,?, fr.ua Lake
v!- urtKInK whether he sould assist in
tti organ :ntion of a ca rnanv at that
.ovn 1 vi ild suggwt that tho 'o
cue ifcr-crate and organise one
company.
i e:n..-( ro for your inforv ntl n an
One captain, one first lieutenant, one'
Hccond lieutenant, one first sergeaaL
one mess sergeant, one supply "ser-
i?pfint. sly nnriFAatita ihlAvon rm-AAi-Bila 31
, ., .. --1,1
two cooks, two buglers, one meohanle,!
w
nineteen first cIssk privates and ftfty-
alv nrlvornu J j
The matter of cc-ope8Uba' wtta'
. I aVoilonr will ko tV m Wmm'
Allrnol fmm Kia mlllt.n. J.. J: . I . . . . Tfi J- .'
which became effective July 1st. are- .,. at nrIni ki-iei' '".
erihtaa tha nrnnlmllnB nt ! "V. n ...A. .
" 'newaddlUoM'sM.Mr',,;
un aSc iiuut uuutT iue ijuieu. jacos axis y,; iiryr smbh
at.t ..... ..., . i. ..: im -....
""" ai..aa, iwaauauuni iiiiw ut KngtTHry-tin .SKSSOIfc ' -M
uivw ta uui ivaa laua xa aer more laaa iuacx, w a spieawstooeas
ob years, vn ua uaui m aot appuea- see to it that ue ssjg
hie to re enlistment la vohtaUer ferees la ease ther'awta tha
&.&-&?.
.j. ,.
