TODA S 7-COLUMN
fun ..eYs wo.th to the ,.e.. ERL
toof thi paper any a6 Is a temporary redntirn made nece-,ary
ington mhant. -R by the fact that our regular eight
c o ~ s o t h p a e r y a y W s h .l b b 1c o l u m n p r e s s e s a r e in p r o c c A % o f r c -
(Circular Furnished Upon Rquest). moval to the ne H rald Buildingr
NO. 3422. WEATHER: SNOW. WASHINGTON. D. C.. TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 29, 1916. ONE CEN I- -- -- - - --
ALL LABOR F
UNDONE BI
PLAN, SA
Minority Report of H
Measure Attacks I
Hour N
FIXES MINIMUM,
Declares Rider Would Decrea
Machinery and Work I
Without Effectin
By JOSEP
The Herald prcents exclusive
Repre'entative J ames A. Gallivan,
the Borland rider to the legi-lativ
ctablih a mintimum workday of e
\Vashington. The present minimur
Representative Gallivan virtua
preparat,,ry ti the resumption in 1
the lcgislative bill. The report, pra
I ndoea All Labor Reform.
It involves legislation utterly
r t to all recent legislation of
-a- inil nation which recognizes the
Sminmg of hcuro of labor as a funds
ment i p.m iiple of human welfare.
If ;a ted t would result in a de
c . r ,fic.ncy in the administrative
tachiitnery of th- national government
ant -:i imany instances cause a disloca
tt n . work tantamount to utter de
moralization.
. It would work hardships upon
thousands of patriotic, unselfish, hard
working employes of the government
without accomplishing any good either
of economy or increased efficiency.
. I It involves new legislation on an
appropriation bill, contrary to the rules
of the House of Representatives.
' It involves legislation directly and
vitally affecting the economic and social
Ife of approximately 35,000 employes of
ilhe government. The proposal has been
the. subject of no investigation by a
-ompetent body and has been written
into the bill practically without conmd
eration or discussion of any kind Md
over 'be pr?" af the efiman
sibcommitee who wrote tne bill.
Section 6 is urged as another advahce
in the direction of limiting the hours of
labor. As a matter of fact it represents
the first step In a new direction-limiting
the hours of freedom. It places absolutely
To limit on the hours of labor beyond
that set by human endurance or the
calendar.
Contrary to Eight-hour Principle.
Th- proposal Involved-to require not
.ss than eight hours work a day of em
ployes in the government executive de
Partments-is unsound in conception and
'icious in operation and its enactment
would prove a legislative aid economic
boomerang form whic2h the entire country
woild suffer.
The proposed amendment to exIsting
law ii advanced as an application of
the eight-hour working day to the gov
ertnment departments. In fact, It is a
%i7,ous and open attack upon the principle
and practice of the eight-hour day. No
man who believes in the justice of an
eight-hour workday can conscientiously
support this proposal. It places no imit
upon the workday; it merely places a
limit upon the hours of freedom gov
ernment clerks shall be permitted. The
eight-hour law establishes a maximum
wrkday; this legislative proposal seeks
to establish a minimum work day.
Ex:sting law requires a seven-hour
workday for government clerks; exgri
ance has shown the averace workday
7s far in excess of the seven-hour mini
mum requirement. Existing law provides
no overtime compensation; Section 6 pro
Poses none. .\n essential feature of the
eight-hour law-or any law fixing a
miximum workday-is that labor in
excess of the maximum shall receite
extra compeneation.
It has heen urged that this proposai
s on al fours with previous legisla
ton, applying the eight-hour day to othcr
employes of tho government outside of
Washin;;ton. Nothing coutld be farther
from the truth. Far from eliminating
a di crimination in favor of government
clrke employrd in Wa shington. it creates
a discrimination in favor of government
eerks employed elsewhere. In 1911. Con
.:esas Incorporated in the postoffice ap
proepr~atlion hill at ei.;ht-hor miaximumi
r- tiremient (section. ; stat. .4,. It
' arried in section 311. Postal Laws and
I-;.,lations. is follows:
rI miii first and sconil clas' lost..
-fm es shall be required to work not
tore itian extht hours a dlay: psevidled
Cit Ithe ight hours of serv ice shall not
* t'-adt over a longer period than ten
c-onse.ntill e hours and the schedules o1
w'orking of the employcs shall be regu
lated accordingly.
2In case of emnet genc:y or If the needs
of the scrvice require, clerks in first and
second class postoffices can he required
to work in excess of eight hours a day
and for such additional services they
shall be paid extra in proporation to
their salaries as fixed by law.
As no compensation is provided In this
proposal for overtime. the effect of this
would he to force upon the governmetl
-lerk affected a workday varying from
eight to twenty-fouir hours. Titus the
l'nited States government woul~i be
CONTLUtED ON~ PAGE TWO.
EFORM
(BORLAND
YS GALLIVAN
ouse Committee Insists
Principle of Eight
Vorkday.
NOT MAXIMUM
se Efficiency of Government's
iardship on Thousands '
g Any Economy.
H P. ANNIN.
ly herewith the minority report of
of Massachusetts, dissenting from
appropriation bill, which seeks to
ight hours for government clerks in
ai requirement is seven hours.
liv concluded his report last night,
ie House today of consideration of
etically in full, follows:
MAIL THIEVES
GET $500,000
Four Registered Mail Pouches
on Washington-New York
Train Lost.
TWO BAGS FROM CAPITAL,
VALUED AT MILLION, SAFE
Shipment From Riggs Bank Reported
0. K.-Mysry Shrouds Manner
Theft Took Place.
SpecI t. nor Washiagte Ralw.
New York, Fe. .-Postoflce inspec
tors admitted tonight that an arrest
Is momentarily expecifb as the result
of the theft hems of four pouches com
tainig rgatLe msal of an estimated'
-M.,_ of or,.
In many respects the theft has proved
one of the most mysterious the postal
authorities have had to contend with in
many years. Committed early Saturday
morning, it was kept quiet until today.
pending a thorough investigation.
The essential details, as outlined by the
authorities, are as follows:
Baltimore and Ohio train No. 5:0 left
Washington Friday night at 8 o'clock.
arriving at Jersey City at 2:56 o'clock
Saturday morning.
On board were six registered mail
pouches in charge of J. H. McCall, of
Baltimore. Three pouches contained
Baltimore mail; three contained Wash
inston mail.
At Jersey City the registered mall was
placed and locked in a screened truck,
after being checked off, to be taken tol
Manhattan.
In checking out the six registered
pouches at the new postoffice the loss of
four of the pouches was discovered. They
dldippearcd while the truck was en
route from Jersey City.
The two most imrortant pouches, one
from the Riggs Bank, in Washington,
and the other from the Treasury Depart
men. were not taken. Unofficial sources
estimate that these two pouches contain
ed mail valued at $l,000,000.
AUTO DRIVER EXONERATED.
Coroner's Jury Relieven E. H. Mo
sker of Blame for Man's Death.
sirral ,0> Te; Washinztoa Herald.
Mount Rainier. Md., Feb. 23.-A coro
ner's jury tonight voted 9 to 3 to exon
erate Edgar If. Mosher of blame for the
death of Theodore Maske, who was killed
by an automobile driven tby Mosher on
tIhe Marlboro Pike early Sunday morning.
Maske died at Emergency Hospital.
Washington. Sunday evening.
The jury was out from 8 until 10:30
o'clock. It Is understood three votes
were taken. The first vote is reported to
have been 7 to 5 to hold Mosher for man
slaughter. The second is said to have
been 5 to 5. and the final vote 9 to . for,
acquittal. Justice of the Peace Robert
E. Joyce accepted the verdict and dis-!
charged the jury.
.Germany Makes Protest
Ieie. Swaitzerlandr, Feb. 2S.-It was
rtate-i htere this aftcrtnoon that Germany
has sent a strong protest to Portugal
concerning the action of the latter coun
try in seizing German steamers.
ishop: Killed by Robber.
Uicnai hio. Feb. 28.-The Rev.
Thotmas C. Carter, of Chattanooga.
Tenn. a biashopl of the United Brethren
Church, died today from injuries sus
tained when he was assaulted and robbed
eight days ago.
Lieutenant Governor Dies Suddenly.I
Riverside, Cal., Feb. 28.-Lieut. Gov.
John Eshelman suffered a hemorrhage
at the Southern Pacific Club. at Indlo,
today, death resulting Instantly.
Visit New Orleass, Nebile, Peasacee
During Mardi Gras. Low round-tripi
fares. Febr. 28 to Mar. 6. Through sleep
ing cars. Southern Rty., 705 11th at.
The Washington Herald's New Home
425-427-429 Eleventh Street, Between E and Pennsylvania Avenue
VE9
The Only Building in Washington Devoted Exclusively to Newspaper Production.
T DAY The Washington HERALD prints evbigtepse-yt e l h rse
the first issue of the paper In its new noeain eeas te.slrN11fn h
home at 425-427-429 Eleventh street.
The one visible evidence of this removal is to be
seen in the temporary reduction in size of the prsom.af tue htm ksfrterpi
paper from eight to seven columns. This was hnln fteppri anrta ae
made necessary because of the fact that the big, tegets osbea on ftm ndlvr
eight-column presses are in process of removal. fo h rs notehre
It is one of the very few times in the history Lvn pt u euaina
of newspaperdom that a big plant has been to'faesgrwnnwppr-cmeld
moved from one building to another, squares u ose hs agrqatr.Ilecrua
away, without the slightest interruption to any in nth latfw m tshsgr nasht
of the issues and accomplished without calling ofnoteWahgonewperasvr
on any of its contemporaries for assistance. goni osotasaeo ie n h
The HERALD'S new home is a big, three
story pressed brick and steel structure covering befudith fathtitstoag atxen
three street numbers and affords an ideal aho edlvr in es.
home for a newspaper. The interior of the ThHEADiamebroteAut
building was laid out for us by S. W. Timmis, Bra fCruainteoebg nvral
consulting engineer of New York. Among the nwppr neeylct ftlcutysbi
many big plants for whose scientific arrange- thicrulio fgre frvrfcaon Te
ment Mr. Timmis is responsible, some of the onythrZ igo ewperhaiso
most noteworthy include the Iron Age Build- ordwtA.BC.mbesiisaevng
ing, the Biograph Building, the McGraw Build
ing, the Graphic Arts Building, J. J. Little and ciulto whthe or "srin"mas n
Ives Building, the Doubleday-Page plant at sivraeoldhnstllhou.
Garden City, and the G. Schirmer plant on HEADwudeclanevefotibig
Long Island.maewt thtfc inmn.O r osatl
The entire third floor of the new build- icesn iclto a peldt ah
ing is devoted to the composing room, where igo ecat ekn h oteooia
th yei o nysebtweetetp
fo ac sseisfesl md. hs e s
papr ws te irs an istoay he-nl
Th nyBidn nWashington Deoenxluieyt ewspaper wPthadcoptetonon
ditibtone aytem 4made27 ossilevet by et. crcltinanauincomf-ef h ppr
Thee viil vdneo hsrmvli ob h itiuigdepartment is juston onotyetMa
seenin thec toary redufction insie oftpe prsomaftuehtmksfrterpi
paerfromu betrsueven cluns eTis fastigofteppr namnerta e
mev eessaryngbuttecautse ofithe whictha tahe bitdgraay'ssbeaonto ieindlr
tisue of The ERyLD is ite Printoringgupt u eptto s Wsi
mveydsu from newuilding ves anothe sqaresr st ekteelrerqatr.Tecrua
taway, ithout other slgtswa erutoy.ay tini h at e otshs rw sta
ofthe isesond aomisedve itouth caligo- oohrWsigtnnwpprhse
toria an roft ontlempartes o asitane, grwpaper.r paeo tm.Anh
TheHERLD' ne hoe i a igthre- ins gpratifyng Hing aou theisrowh fid the
stor prssedbrik an stel srucureoveing ierfundtin thand thtine ofics tof grea eaper.
hom fr anespaer Th iterorof he The HisrALDting deartmembe of juht Audt
reonize aufetort tohaiaesfo the leaig
consutingenginer o NewYork.Amon the nwngs tepaper in annero tht sbmit
ent r. Tmmis s reponsile, ome o th ol other presinton nhewspaer. htish
mostnotworhy nclde he Ion ge uil- oedLithn A. B. our memputation is "ansheing
ing.theBioraphBuidin, te McrawBuid- ton'ate sta TheSta.ing B Cesae. cmesed
ingtheGrahicArt Buldig. . Litleand ciution wht the ord quaterling Thean ncua
silverware-solid, heonth all throgh. tht
ve BuldigtheDouledy-ageplat a oI is othe ashioe newspaper that Tee
Gardn Cty, nd he . Scirmr plnt n HRALD would excel andpacer fote And tein
LongIslnd.madsth hatifa tin abutin Ouronts tl
Theentre hidfoorofhenewbuid- nceaoung irthelato thatis oappae get extent
ing i devted t thecompsingoomwher hngonmerchantsr sinease mscooia
thetyp isnotonl se, btwerethetyp mThd ofHERLi th rengpblc thei store
nues tof anirculats the olue ofg universll
for ach ssueis reshy mae. hisews einggnzeds altherityrto which the leading
paper wasetheafirst in everyodayythe only countrustubast
~~~~~~~~~onyohrWashington newspaper wtacopeennThSuayHRLatth ate pice hon
plee dparmen ofLantonMontyp Ma odwith A. onl of tebesunda issu aonevein
contepoewy onec ptriA. of the Suayt
chine, whih no onlymanufctur therypeation at heiedl beneficng mean one
itsef, bt b~der. rlesslus. -n fat, ilreradyres-gsoihnes dail.ll theugh. n
at sa of twom do wsaer onthat prie
issu ofTheHERLD s ilusratd.rining of HEL ouda exced asvngo trer dfolrs an
ever isue rom ew ypegivstothepapr yade onithe that (actoa inaming. five ollstat)
a der-ct apearncethatcoud no beo- isncrasing anirrculatilha appeale to tht
tamd n ay thewy.singtonircans Teking that wecoanmica
Thesecndflor s gvenovr tteei- moehod othin the locadn shpublrc hoi buyr
newsrouaeteth tpae'sdepa vertiin advrti
tona an reortria deartmntsof he ape, un gise anohe fetre othat esapels alik the
The rintng i don rigtothemainflooninchrity ha peopen wit buig factor nd thifth,
vie ofthepubicful legthglaswndos mcatsit oethinglar awyert onhte toie
FRENCH BEA
GERMAN(
ABOUT F
30,000 Wounded Sol
on Snow-clad S
Eighth Da
FIGHTING OVER
Tremendous Encircling Move
Hordes While the Kaiser an<
Battlefield-Enormo1
Speeiali Cable to The
Lianplon. Feb. 2-.-The el-i'hth
w~ ith. ut a deci-ive \ iet ry ft r lie
The tide of battle el bic all' I
toda, antl w a marked l %i-knt
ilia bloyc4,nthet.
Red Cro'. -urgeoni e1tiinated 1
if uth armies are din1 in the -
conlrade> dare not attempt their r
For milsc, around the battlct
while hundred, of bodie,. carriei
the Terrain. are beiing -wept i the
over.
NEW SUB WAR
ON TONIGHT
Teutons, Confident of Being
Within Law, Will Launch
Their Crusade.
BERLIN SAYS ATTACKS WILL
NOT BE MADE WITHOUT PROOF
No Further Action By U. S. Until
Appendices to Memorandum
Are Received.
The German goverument n otite the
I'nited States yesterday that its new
submarine campaign agaiTst eremy
nerchantnen Is lustfrird imIer m
national law and w:ll be Iaunchsd. as
planned, this midnicht
At the tame time offsiRia Of the
.4tate Department and the Ge7rran
Embassy said they were not appren
hensle of ne' suhma-nne 1iin. lit.!
wthile negotiations are pending
The German Ambassador told Sec-re
taiv Ianinsg that to passenger ves-el
will ie attacked unless the submarire
commander has positive proof that it
'is armed
Semi-official warnirc was oiven
laier from high admiristtration quar
Sr isat .\mermsans til take Paliage
nm rassenger veese'. armd fo:
de'f-nt :.t their peril.
Secreta.y Lnm-ing :ecrved tie 4ir
n olvunication wiithout enme'
1 annone sarcrrunrd that tls,
t-nitrl *States n ,I take no further .e
1:on until tie append:ees to th, ;et
n inmeiolandumr, aiting what 4r
miany c'orter-ds Is Proof of negal 's'
of :inanent by British mercin'mn.
reeied ftrom Berln
Appendices %etred.
In iS, connetion the trp< c r
Wahington 'esterday t hat these or
pi'ndices had heen seized by the -I I
ovsernmcrt fr m the stcamer
AmlIerdail and takcs fr-m1 th - u >5 r
* irtmei'.z i '.. sri n e rv
i.endoni i.mcinl e la eurvc.6 V
e - . lt thre admilted tiC -
not 1o hat ad herno of tie sp
iicse the' wre djispathe: fotm
Berin. by .mbamsdar Gerard
tifcials n minitted also I - t eizre of a
dip'omati pourhi. *erta a T ,
!ainin: the iort i t iph oto aphh Id,
of 'rititsh se r'l I d 0'd li! w l a
serious il st or 1) tu -en thi 1 nI
States and ;iint R itai. Thic refu.s
!c'mment until cfi : rep s s re aa
The onmmi::.tion f-on, r- -
ered to Serretar, Laninoz ho I ,t tie
announed submsime campagn I- r
coitrav-ne earlir ass.uranc-s C 'V1
Pr.ited States that nio unresisting hn
itll be sunk without warning
FOUR MORE SHIPS SUNK.
One oif V easels Hospital Craft--aone
Loss of life.
I .tndon Feb. 3.--F. ur more vessels
wtetc ittik t oria). They are t he South
ford, fozrme rly I the iinddad . brit ih
eve;the Italians hospital asi' Mare
lhiars; the Russian oteam.-hip Pe:h,-nga
and~ an univdenthied Osuelich ste-nm. -.
Enchl sinking ws acompanl d b' Itss
if lif . but in ino ca' wit the stcrirnw
as gi-at as mi tiihe ls of the P'. & 0
litter MtalIoja ertsrday.
Cotton~ Ship Afire.
bngloa.ddwt cotton and othter Siar
ruppilis for Rtuesia tire broke out ithia
afternoon on board the British steamni u
Furymn'hus at h'r dock in Broukhi n
The ft-r burned an hour.
Es ery Day--the Right Way
to Atgusa. Aike.. ColoNta. Aursa pca
Ie, Washtantam.t f p-m. js m husar-bAd_
T BACK
)FFENSIVE
DRT VERDUN
liers of Both Sides Lie
lopes at End of
y of Battle.
100-MILE FRONT
ment Launched By Teuton
I Crown Prince Survey Vast
is Losses Reported.
% ma'blstem Iter.
ha-tt \tcrdun ended
f i !earl\ I0 wl'iles
tad :t~cr attack.. each ill
r : anl tain( cir
d ceredn 5 en fl n renp
i-- Cc -trem hcxr-co
']ein e l! and( ;)th r( t of that
ersmanf on Offiis.
"uO en ; r :: z mr-c.:a h
d"U e . - z- m . ere : uh i t--V
m r t h wen ...t. . a a -- er tne
Earne ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ o en _o; tr ,a e !e.ed 0.
new d::ve ' : m agn
Un both piej p the -oa.7 S' mn
P. to S ;al.. . - r d hed
rl where tottt ,. u ,.rn the Terv h
madne their gT , ?mattb. Ib Te or,
haie blasted the 7 way 'o ai- fo,
gain o I . rs Tr, ,port f' r
car: . of Naat in - te -e.
ruch I ter i.nr Tt'ne ' I. e tak-g
mr-. than to Frnrch pr'snners &n-1
nm11m- r nn gun.
So me iti I br'14 e thst 1h, y , a
tacks i r n a a1e )- .d i *,&menia^a
rpu.h on the etile tront o norm thA
t0 mileP fror the q'M tp L:se
Terrige Attacks ILamaebeL
Abtout V t e Grna tg
:nun, hing terrl . r a * 7-- t- S.
Mill-i Saib-nt "1 *'lae. - h as T-.
Ihn ta te n "ic t e s' T
11:
tre rest for'- d e. e t r - r.1 U5
d ta reaD a ou
The tier-et .. e 1" i
arnu- .1 Te I im-*.non - ct of '
Freh,,- neiprnie
*t yrr-rt- -
ktr
h 1 - a r
rn-t .
hi. i t.5
aSrm I s-d to Tran-i-or U -cnded
T se .'- - t
1',.
tie-r. thr ; . C
'iorU d o r i -- - hr
N transporta n i vN .
tVerun thre~ rma,
Urges Sabbath Observance.
beflort h lit aa e~ l'i sc' l' a '. r
lode,. n: k' -( me7 mbre7p < t he
ti 'ilatun,. of the Sa bbatL
Policeman Shot by Relative.
Son-ow', Pa. Feb 3-P n ira (I .
N, ir n0i shot to anthi b h
fath-, --aw. Frank 7 ;mIa. :, a fam'id
quiarrel tralat. tuida IId a nd i' hemg71
sUo.:t hI th iii
Billion Dollar Loan Approved.
PetrogradI. Feb. 2' -The finance c-omm1it
ti 7 of th Du;no. ruecided over by P'r.
lde- Ni0~1 a.ts pp--v-ed Ithe new war
loani for St .L'."'"a. T he luan it ll run
f-i 77 'en ear. P'7 ing ---~ eri cet.
$775 te New Oreamar, S25.M5 te Nebile
and Pen~a.ceta and Hetera.
Baltim1 :'0 C~ '7- : 7hio. t. uarv ':t to7
M~arch '7: ttalid u2,tl M.rch. 17 I tay
be exte't'ed t- Ap'I 7. AEtk agents [er
paricularas-.--Ad.
