FINANCIAL EDITION
A. M &h-H& JHfe. 2A
NIGHT
EXTRA
NIGHT
EXTRA
tmn
PHILADELPHIA, TUESDAY, FEUUUAUY 20, 1010.
CormiotiT, 1010. bi iii Pouo Lbdom Commni.
PItlOB ONE CENT
m$?f9p
g&mEf .Jbl.
TTVTI?15
LiXXI -1- Am
I, . .. r ,..... ,v ,. . .,.,.,. ,. , , ..,,.. wim-TC-wwt. ,, .,,.,, ,v.-;; :.-.-.-..v.;n--'r!r' ;;";, jTf'''.
It iifc i' .... i i . , , .i i i . ' r-u'wr " ' . : '
IB. w I W1f- fl Wl T TI W a T"W n 7 H U "
MEMO! SEA FLUE
PROVENCE SUN
ELd
JL:L9
DIE
1EMANSP1EGESEWF
IlES SOUTHEAST- Of
CHECKED NORTH OF
NCH
RDUN;;
SS
Brown Prince Delivers Smashing At
tacks Along Railway From Eix to
, Fresnes Captures Manheulles
' and Champton -
IrSuddenlv shiftincr their attack., the Germans .have launched a heavy
Be on Verdun from the eastward, aiming to squeeze the French out of
traun by, a threat of envolopment.
tf.Tho German War Office this afternoon announced the capture or me
laues of Manhuelles and. Champion. 11 miles southeast of Verdun, and
B$!ii1nn.n n? U .l.ft1n HiiKmnn fmnf nnrthnnqf nnfth nrifl HnllthenRfc of
sf& .. i .. . ..... nA -n :.t. : -
"Mn, ana IIJO capture 01 auouc xi,Jni rruncu iiiBuiicio.
he Germans also have cleared a large, forest district northeast ot VVar-
gyille and Haugimont of French troops.
f The French War Office, reportinc.a visible slackening of the Crown
Hjle's onslaughts north of Verdun, admitted the loss of Manheulles' and
gnnrmed Berlin reports of heavy fighting in the Woevre region east of
erdun.
At the samo time tho Germans continue their Champagne offensive.
Kb French War Offico admits that French first-line trenches have been
etrated at, several points.
From Dutch sources came reports today that ,45,000 Germans were killed
fetho frontal attacks upon Verdun 'fortress and estimates that tho Germans
yjo jost at least luU.UUU in Kiueu, wounuen unu missing nmtu uio mnusu
Bn.
(The German official statement for tho first time revealed this afternoon
&e? extent, of tho German-operations on n IB-mile front east of tho fortress.
i'ln the Woevre region," it was stated, "the Germans have passed
ffcppe (eight miles northeast of Verdun) , Abacourt (nine miles east north-
lat-of Verdun). Blanzee (eight miles east of Verdun) and have captured
Manheulles and Champion (near Fresnes and about 11 miles southeast of
dun)."
The papture in this region of 16,575 men and 228 officers, 68 cannon
3 86 machine guns, was also reported by Berlin. East of the Meuso they
Jjfptured a small armored work northwest of- Fort Douaumont.
tipnt.tv Vah ?!
JRWrnan headquarters today announced
JifvplUTe pf two mora fortified French
KfeK on Verdun's southeastern front.
JKU ffreut operations that have fur their
vecove the surrounding or ine migniy
Fetich fortress on the Meuso. German
pa have taken Manheulles and Chnm-
Thivtotajl of i.iworvsrs capiureu cy
iflrmna in tl..fi' ramlinlizil ncatnSt
tat) has been inreuwd to 388 officers
H.5T5 0,:I1.
gillheuilcs 'jica on thjt Woevre plain
SI seven mJL-a soutfejat of Verdun
.renins.
amy ton ateama the WQovre dls
JTthe region bevwlen the Meuse and
He Rivers) and (about 30 miles south
of Manheulles cna ilttia more than
from ! rne
traclal headuvartew report follows:
lent arttur duels continued at
poiniB. tnvv,oi ine iueuso wo
a sniill anbornd works North-
M Dounumunt iu nested attiioka made
em-T)!.. i ioind at tba uut-
'ln the W ere w J vu.mui Hliip, Ah4-
W tscujiiiji tu ufr tiiur. Caluwua 'fivo
ELECTRIC LIGHT
COST IS 18 1-3 TO
33 PER CENT. HIGH
F. W. BALLARD, Expert
Witness Declares Cuts
Could Be Made in Arc
and Eesidence Service
SEES PADDED APPRAISAL
CAMBRIA STEEL MEN QUIT
Railroad Department Tied Up by
Strike of Workers
JOHNSTOWN. Pa.. Feb. ?. The rail
road department of the Cambria Steel
Company was tied up today by a strike
of the engineers, firemen and trainmen,
resulting- from a dispute over the wage
scale.
The men say that they were promised
a ID per cerit. raise and have not been
receiving' It. .
How Expert Would Fix
City Electric Rates
For electric lighting in resi
dences, 5 and 6 cents per kilowatt
hour, instead of 10 and 12 cents, a
cut of 50 per cent.
Urges an 18 1-3 per cent, reduc
tion for municipal arc lighting.
Declares Philadelphia Electric
property is worth $23,500,000, in
stead of $51,500,200, as appraised
by company.
On this basis company's earn
ings in 1914 were nearly $2,000,000
above a fair rate of return on its
investment
Company would not loso by
establishing lower rates, as in
crease of consumers would in less
than two years offset tho initial
disadvantage.
s cruiser, ma;
GERMAN SU
USEB
HAVE B
V
Believed War Graft Converted From
Palatial Transatlantic Ship Car
ried Troops Goes to Bottom
of Mediterranean
PARIS, Feb. 29. It was rumored late this afternoon that the
liner Provence was attacked by two submarines.
r- T.
Plea for Another High School
Residents o West Philadelphia want
another high school The Board of Edu
cation will be petitioned to erect such an
institution as the result of a resolution
adopted last night by the Cedar Avenue
Improvement Association, at a meeting at
tsth. street and Baltimore avenue. The
resolution sax the West Philadelphia high
schools are overcrowded. Officers of the
Msoclatlun for the ensuins year were
I'bwo a follows: President, William H.
Fultoa; vita president. Dr. Harry A- Hlok
man; sauristary. Arthur & MiUor; treas
urer. Usury R. Swope.
Frederick W. Ballard, expert for the
complainants, submitted estimates before
the Public Service Commission, today, at
the hearing of tne complaints against the
prices and service of the Philadelphia
Electric Company, to show that the Com
pany could reduce Its charges for munici
pal arc lighting by 18 l-S per cent, and
for residence lighting and commercial
.lighting and power by 33 per cent, and
still earn 7 per cent, on Its Investment.
But. Bald the expert, that was only one
way ot considering how better rates might
be established. lie would suggest, he
sild. what he called another and better
method, and by that the rates for resi
dence lighting and commercial lighting
would be decreased by CO per cent., so
that the householder, Instead ot paying
10 and 12 cents per kilowatt hour, would
pay only 6 and 8 cents.
In an Interview after the hearing, Mr.
Ballard Bald he was confident that he
could run the Philadelphia Electric Com-
Continued en Paro Six, Column One
"Frightfulness"
Just how accurately that word de
scribes the German military pollay Is
shown In the first of a number of ar
ticles contributed
BY ELLEN ADAIR '
the well-known woman writer, who Is
now In England. This story will ap
pear In the
EVENING LEDGER
TOMORROW
It deals with the fearful havoc
wrought over the peaceful English
countryside by
THE ZEPPELIN RAIDS
and provides, perhaps, the first uncen
sored account of the scenes of sorrow
and ruin which fallowed the various
Qorman air-Invasions of Britain.
PARIS, Feb. 20.
More than 1000 lives are. believed to have been lost in the sinking of
the French auxiliary cruiser La Provence, formerly in service as a trans
atlantic liner, in the middle Mediterranean on Saturday.
Eighteen hundred persons were aboard the cruiser, an official statement
from tho Ministry of Marino, stated.
Of this number,' 296 of the crew havo been landed nt Malta and others
on the Greek Island of Melos.
A later official statement from the Admiralty put tho total number
probably saved at 870, making the number missing about 1000.
Ten boats are now at tho scene of tho disaster continuing the search for
other survivors, tho Hnistry of Marine announced.
In all probability the Provence was carrying troop3 either from or to
Salonica. The islands of Malta and Melos, where survivors were landed, aro
600 miles apart. Melos lies off the southeast coast of Greece, It is probable
the Provence was sunk soroewhero between the Greek west coast and Island
of Malta. ...
Dispatches fronTris, transmitted through Paris direct and also other
dispatches, transmitted through London, did not state whether the Provence
was sunk by a submarine, by a mine or was the victim of an accident.
Submarines are known to have been operating in tho mid-Mediterranean
for some time, tho British steamship Fastnet and a Swedish steamship having
been torpedoed, fn those waters within tho last few days.
Recently the British censor has eliminated all references to submarine
attacks, allowing messages stating that a steamship- has been torpedoed to
read only "was sunk." The French censor, however, has permitted corre
spondents to cable the fact that ships havo been submarined.
French patrol boats were sent to the scene with a number of destroyers
when the Provence flashed word that it was sinking. As fast as the rescue
boats were filled with survivors they hurried away to Melos or Malta.
By Sunday morning 485 survivors had reached Melo3 and on Monday 85
more arrived on a patrol boat that had been delayed.
NEW YORK, Feb. 29.
The auxiliary cruiser Provence sunk is believed to be the palatial French
liner of .that name, formerly in transatlantic service. The liner Provence
4s now in the Admiralty service, it was stated at the French Transatlantique
offices here today Jt was sld, however, the Government would not notify
them in case the ship was lost.
The Provence was of 18,000 tons and about 600 feet long. There is a
French battleship of the same name, but it is obvious this, is not the vessel
referred to as having been lost. The fact that there were 1800 persons aboard
the lost Bhip strengthens the belief that it was the former transatlantic liner.
The Provence has been famous for 10 years as tho fastest French ship
afloat. It was built in U05 at St. Nazaire, France. The ship was built for
speed and before the war was one of the vessels best liked by Americana
traveling to and from Europe. It had a capacity for 1604 passengers and
when plying the Atlantic carried a crew of 435 men.
As tho Provenge was pot a passenger liner or an armed merchantman,
its sinking, even if. di'3 to U-boat attack, would not add a further complica
tion to the intfrnaflenal crisis.
V
QUICK NEWS
GIRL, POISON-STAINED, FOUND IN ALLEY
An unidentified girl, about 20 years old. was found unconscious
In an alley opening off Oregon avenue west of 15th street 'and Snyder
avenue station. Iodine stains were found on the girl's hands by
physicians at the Methodist Hospital, where she "Was taken. Police
believe the Blrl Attempted suicide. ,
BRYAN REFUSES TO DEBATE PREPAREDNESS
WASHINGTON. Feb. 20. Ex-Secretary Bryan will not debate
preparedness with Representative Gardner. The Economic Lcjujito
tried to arrange thn debate and Gardner was Willing.
APPAM DECISION MAY BE ISSUED TODAY
WASHINGTON, Kob. 29. Tho Stato Department today announced that iU
decision na to tho status of tlio British liner Appnm, which sailed ncrosa tho
Atlantic and took rofupro In Norfolk with a Gorman prize crow aboard, will bo
offlclnlly communicated to tho German Kmbansy hero late today or tomorrow.
While there was no Intimation ot what the decision will bo, It la conndenfry,
expected In offlclnl circles that tho United States) will decido that tho Prussian
treaty of 1828 cover.i tho case. Tho treaty provides that tho two countries may
brlnp prizes Into each other's porta exempt from nil civil proceedings. If bo
decided, It is probable that tho llbol now pending in tho Federal court at Norfolk,
filed by tho British owners, will be dismissed.
COURT DEFERS SENTENCE ON DI BERARDINO
Sentence was deferred today by JudKO Henry In Quarter Sessions Court
on Lulgl dl nerardlno, who was convicted of wantonly pointing a deadly weapon,
carrying concealed deadly weapons, and aggravated assault with attempt to
shoot Public Sorvlco Commissioner John Monaghan. Ilerardlno was Indicted lost
week on tho thrco charges. Ills defense was that ho had no Intention of firing
tho revolver, which ho drew about two weeks ago and pointed at Mr. Monaghan
In a restaurant, and that ho only did It to frighten tho latter.
KNIGHT TELLS IRRITATING AMERICAN POLICIES
WASHINGTON, Feb. 29. Admiral Knight, president of tho naval war college,
heforo tho House Naval Affairs Committee today declared that tho Monroe Doo
trlno was tho big thorn in tho side of other world powers which probably will
drag tho United States Into war. Pressed by Representative Calloway, of Texas,
tho Admiral declared that tho United States was now supporting more policies
that were irritating to foreign nations than any other world power. Among'
them ho enumerated tho open door In China, possession of tho Panama canal, aria
Asiatic exclusion, In addition to tho Monroo Doctrine.
COL. A. B. STEWART LEAVES PENITENTIARY
Colonel A. 13. Stewart, Chicago lawyer and former Attorney General pf Porto
Rico, completed his term In the Eastern PonltcntlnPy today, where he was sent
for participation In tho 6,0U0,000 International Lumber and Development Com
pany swindle. Colonel Stowart was sentenced to a year and day and a $1000 fine.
Ho mado an affidavit that ho was not ablo to pay tho $1000 flno and then served
30 more days for nonpayment. Colonol Stewart paid tQday.whUo-s.waltlngJnUria ,.
Federal Building for the arrival of Commissioner Edmunds, that ho would return
to his home In Chicago whero ho would "start all over again."
SHIPYARD FIRE MENACES U. S. BATTLESHIP NEVADA
QUINCY, Mass., Feb. 29. A blaze which started in nn outbuilding at the
dock of tho Foro River Shipbuilding yard today set flro to an oil tank and Bent
tho flames shooting In tho direction of tho battleship Nevada anchored close by,
Tho crow of tho Nevada manned themselves and fought the fire from all sides.
Tho- Nevada was scorched on tho side and much of tho paint was burned off.
COMMITTEE TO URGE ARMY AERO CORPS INCREASE
WASHINGTON, Feb. 29. The Senato Military Affairs Committee will recom-
mend extensive enlargement of tho army aviation corps, both In pcrsonnol and
equipment, without waiting for determination of responsibility for the present
inefficiency of tho corps. Whether, ns Senator Robinson, of Arkansas, charges,
the responsibility for tho condition of tho corps rests upon Colonel Reber, lta
chief, is of secondary lmportanco to tho necessity for Immediate Improvement,
committee members today declared.
DYEING AND PAPER PLANTS BURNED
About $40,000 damage was done by two (lrc3 which early today destroyed a
dyeing establishment In Northeast Philadelphia and tho warehouse of tho Ponn
Paper and Stock Cojnpany at 410 North Marshall street. The dyeing plant was
the property of James Kerr and was situated at 1410-12-14 East Oxford street
Dyestuffs valued at (12,000 wcro damaged and the blaze also destroyed tho greater
part of about $1G,000 worth of silk yarns. Tho Pilgrim Congregational Church
Is In tho rear of tho building and tho pastor, the Rev. Harry W. Myers, and Mrs.
Myers began to save tho church furnishings when the flro was discovered. The)
blaze In tho plant of tho Penn Paper and Stock Company caused between $7000
and $12,000 damage, It Is said. It drove several families from their homes.
LEHIGH VALLEY ORDERS 20 LOCOMOTIVES
Tho Lehigh Valley Railroad announced tho purchase of 20 moro Mikado freight
15 switch engines have been ordered by tho company. Tho 20 Just ordered will be
built by the Baldwin Locomotlvo Works.
SMITH SIGNS $280,000 FRANKFORD "L" CONTRACT
Mayor Smith today signed tho contract for tho erection of that part of the
superstructure of the Frankford Elevated line, on Frankford avenue between
Unity and Dyre streets which has been awarded to the American Bridge Com
pany for $280,000. Work on the line will be started In a few days. Soma of the
materials Include 10,000 pounds of rivetted steel girders, 10,000 pounds rolled
beams, 10.000 pounds steel columns, 10,000 pounds steel rods and 10,000 pounds
Iron columns.
EARTHQUAKES ROCK SECTION ABOUT QUEBEC
QUEBEC, Que., Feb. 29. Threo earthquake shocks were felt In this vicinity
this morning. Tho undulations were felt for a mile along the shores of the
gulf of St. Lawrence. In tho vicinity of St. Saqvour glassware was broken and
chimneys cracked.
1,000,000 MEN MAKING MUNITIONS FOR BRITAIN
LONDON, Feb. 29. From a high source It has been learned that official
badges as munition workers have beon Issued to 1,000,000 persona. Including 160,
000 Admiralty workers.- This, however, does not Include the enormous numbers
of women employed In munition factories. Also it takes. In only a slight per
centage of the unskilled laborers who had some special qualification. As th
best authorities hero estimate that Germany is employing only 750.000 rnuriltlons
workers of all grades and classes, the report furnishes a tangible reason for
British optimism.
ITALY MAY DECLARE WAR ON GERMANY THIS WEEK
LONDON, Feb. 29. Great Interest la being displayed here In tho possibility
of a declaration of war on Germany by Italy when the Italian Parliament ppens.
At the date of adjournment In December It was stated that Parliament would b
convened March 1. According to, Rome dispatches, the Italian Government has
not yut decided whother It will yield to tho popular demand for a war Vlth Ger
many. The Italian newspapers assert that the Italian Cabinet counpll yesterday
voted to make a declaration on the subject In Parliament only If the Government'
was pressed to da bo.
THE WEATHER
FORECAST
For Philadelphia attd vieinity
Partly cloudy tfinighi and Wednesday,
with lowest temperature tonight about
2$ degrees; gentle variable wind?.
XOST AND SOUND
.
BOOK Lot, jt book ot 3aa, Soiwwk
uw $.. no. jtb ,trua mmm ri
ii.w MMWH, -, "-pfff
avi.l. .TBJiBHSR I.OM, a wblu bull uirw
ar uncut, wttb riUffbt cu aa feaak. Wm
imp to Prof y. HG&6Uta. uwTHU
.K
