"'1
1 60,000 REPORTED LOSS OF GERMANS AT VERDUIi
Snow probable to'nlrjhtj Wtdntsday clearing.
.
WMAL
JJI EDTOV
M
corov
PRICE 01TE CENT.
FORMER FRENCH LINER PROVENCE
FRENCH AM NEW LOSSES;
GERMANS CLAIM CAPTURE
OF FIVE TOWNS, 17,000 MEN
(
Crown Prince Shifts Line of Attack on
Verdun Defenses to East and South
east Paris Claims Check
North of Fortress.
Suddenly shifting their attack, the Germans have launched
a heavy drive on Verdun from the eastward, aiming to squeeze
the French out of Verdun by a threat of envelopment.
The German War Office (his atternoon announced the cap
ture of the villages of Manheullcs and Champion, eleven miles
southeast of Verdun, and the advance of the whole German
front, northeast, east and southeast of Verdun, and the capture
of nearly 17,000 prisoners. The report says the Germans passed
the villages of Dieppe, Abancourt and Blanzee. The first two
towns are in territory which was already supposed to have been
in German hands.
From Dutch sources came reports to-day that 45,000 Ger
mans were killed in the frontal attacks upon Verdun fortress and
estimates that the Germans have lost at least 160,000 in killed,
wounded and missing since the smash began.
The French War Office, reporting a visible slackening of
the Crown Prince's onslaught north of Verdun, admitted the loss
of Manheulles and confirmed Berlin repoits oi heavy fighting
in the Woevre region east of Verdun.
Villages Captured by Germans
In Renewed Drive at Verdun
BERLIN (via London), Feb. 29. Progress for the Germans in their
"drive toward Verdun in the Woevre district was announced to-day by the
War Office. The German troops have pas:ed Dieppe, Abacourt and
Blanzee, and also have taken Manhtielles and Champion.
Dieppe Is about nix miles Ulroctly enst ot Fort do Pouauiuont
end Blanzoo la ten mil oh to the aoiitli anil east of Wr
dun. MauhuellcH Ik still further to the Foutli. There was hard
1'btlng yesterday at this point. The French report admits the
loss of this vlllage.l
The War Office announced that 10,575 French soldiers and 228
officers have been taken in the Woevre region southeast and east of
Verdun. The booty includes .78 cannon and 86 machine guns. The text
pf to-day's official statement is as follows:
"Very strong artillery activity has continued at several points.
East ot the Meiibc wo stormed a small armored work directly
northwest of the village of Douaumont. Itopeated enemy attacks In
this regfon wero stopped at the very outsot.
"In the Woovro our troops have pasred Dleppct, Abancourt and
Dlanzeo. They have cleared theyxtonslve wooded roglon northeast
of Watronvlllo and llnudlomont and have takon la their heroic ad
vanco .Miinheulles and also Chninplon.
"Up to last nlKbt we counted unwoumled prisoners 1!2S ofllcers
and 10,575 men anil further 7tf cannon of theso heavy and ot the
most modern kind) and Fli machine guns, while uncounted war ma
terial Is reported as booty.
"At tho fori'Mcr'H house at Thlnvllle, northeast of Habonvlllnr,
the projecting poriion of it French position sas attacked and taken.
A largo number ot prisoners remained In our hands."
'I he War Office gives jm estimate f the German losses or of the
number of French kil.cd.
French Check German Assaults
In Hot Battle at Douaumont
PAUIS, Feb. 29. An ofltcial announcement by the French War
Office tins afternoon indicates that the bombardment north of Verdun
is continuing with greater intensity. There was hand-to-hand lighting near
the village of Douaumont, outside the captured fort.
Admission is made that the German forces captured the village of
Manheulles, ten or twelve miles southeast of Verdun fortress, but it is
averted that the French regained part of their lost ground and thai tiie
(Continued on
j "Circulation Books Open to All."
Copyright, 1111(1. 1-
C. (Tlir Stvt
1,800 ON BOARD;
KctonJ race)
NEW
The l'rr.. I'nlilUliln
York World).
SITE EXTENDS
Siill Refuses to Give Up Rooks
of Firm for Committee's
Inspection.
ALBANY. Feb. 29. Uy a vote of 24
to IS thu Somite tu'dny adopted a
rcxolutlun extending the Hfo of tho
Thompson Public Hervlco Investiga
tion Committee until July 1,
The Democrats voted with Ronnlor
Thompson, who dcsheil an extension
until .Ian. 10. 1917.
Folowlng tho Introduction of the
Thompson resolution extending tha
llfo of the commtttcu until nxt Jan
uary, Setmtor Iliown. lttiulllgatt
leader, explaining that b differed
front .Mr. Thompson, offered an
nmcudment that the rommltten i-on-cltldo
Its hoarlngs July 1, I'.ilO, and
that It Ik- given until Jan. 10, l'M7( to
present the conimittee's Until report.
"If wo receive the extension I wd;
for," Si'imtor Thompson said, "wo
probably will be able to complete our
work In a few mouths. V havo
had No much eperlimcu with Mlt
nesjii'H wo de.Mlro to subpoena, who
are outnlde of New York, that wo
feel that longer lime xhould be given
to eompleto the committee's record
with their testimony."
Senator Thompson said that the
people of New York would not stand
for the throttling of the eommlttco
at this time when It was in a fair
way to expose certain public utility
lntcrot".
"In view of oil the 'public interests."
said Senator Urown, "and without tef-
cience to any private Interests. 1
think It Is desirable that ihoVxamlna
tlou of UitllCHCH should lie completcl
by July 1."
Senator Uiwson said the people ot
N'ew York City weru vitally concerned
in the Investigation, and he moved a
slow rollcull on the lesolutlous. Sen
ator Hrown moved an open call of the
Senate. When several members were
returned to the Senate elutmber 'i
voto was taken on tho Hrown amend
ment, and tt was adopted.
Senator Thompson Introduced a 1)111
providing for tho appointment of u
commission to be composed ot a mem
ber to be appointed by tho Governor,
a Senator and an Assemblyman, to
confer with tho (iovurnors and I.cgls
laturcH of adoinlng States with a
vlow of securing in such States re
ciprocal legislation for the examina
tion of uituusfes whoso testimony is
required by a Icgihluuw committee
of an adjoining State.
Senator Thompson said to-duy that
ho planned introducing a resolution
In thn Senate putting tliu Legislature
on lecord, to sen whether tho Sena
tors and Assemblymen felt liku tak
ing tho lespouslblllty of ending the
investigation before tha comuilltco
had completed it:t nuik.
"I think," commented Chairman
Thompson, "tho eommlttco has won
tuo confidence of the pcopli and thut
its motives will not bo questioned."
GILLESPIE PEIISISTS
AV KEEPING HOOKS
FROM COMMITTEE
Thomas 11. (itllesple. son of the head
of the engineering tirm of T. A. Oil-
lesplo Company, showed his defiance
again to-day in lespect to the I'itls
burp aiiuiints ot his firm when ho
appealed ut the Thompson iucstig,i
Hun. lb) had tiie records with him
and befoie he went ill before the sub-
(CoQllnuud on Hsuoud Page.)
TJflMDCfiM mnnmv lmm MnTnooner
(iiiumrouM impiu will iiui unuol t
: FOR FOUR MONTHS: HIS RENOWN f . kv .. N
Mead of Investigators Fought Likely to Head Nebraska Dele- jj: f l ' ' :
Hard to Get Time Until Ration; Solid for the Presi- i J V 4ifiM?f :i
GII.I.ESMI: HOLDS OFF! wamiinotok. k.i, .uiM ( 1 KMlZS "j .
. ' Secretary of Htutfi Uryan l for TrWU ' ' ttjHf I 5 k 'I 5W
YORkT TUESDAY,
BRYAN FOR WILSON;
i
k mmWmmWFZSsmmmmmmWmmmmWES
BmTmmmr IZimmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm f ju.'JjclrtA .
dont Wilson's rcnommntion. Itrynn ,
will probably be one of a solid Wilson
delegation from Nebraska, to the at.
Louis convention.
In tho St. Louis platform be will
not .it tempt to inject planks either on
preparedness or tho Administration's
diplomatic policy which would ro
pudlato 1'rpsldcnt Wilson's position.
These authorltntlvo statements re
garding tho former Cabinet premier's
political plans wero madn hero to
day by Judge W. 11. Thompson, Dem
ocratic State Chairman of Nebraska.
Ho has just come from Miami, Ha.,
when) he paid an extended visit with
Ilryon. lie Is ono of Uryan's closest
personal and political friends and
advisors.
"People misunderstood Mr. nrynn's
position icgardlng Ids relations with
tho President," said Chairman
Thompson. "They dllfer only on a
few principles resulting from tho
war. Theso do not affect their politi
cal relations. Mr. Itrynn will most
likely be one of Nebraska's delegates,
at-large to the St. Louis convention.
The entire delegation will bo for the
President's ronomlnatlon. Whether
pledged or unlnstructed, Mr. Itryan
will probably bo among the Nebraska
delegates who will be for tho Presi
dent to ii man. Nebrnbk.i Is for
President Wilson."
Hegardlng the onn term Presi
dential plank, Chairman Thompson
said ho belluvfd Hrynn would not
raiso It against tho President. Itryan
believes the pl.tnk should bo ak'aiu
enunciated in the St. Louis platform,
but madrt applicable only to a Presi
dent elected after, not bcfoio laws
nto enacted putting it Into effect.
G. S. VIEREGK'S MOTHER
SEARCHED BY BRITISH :
Was Near OuMapse When Stripped
at Diiaii- nil Her Way to
Merlin.
TUK IfAGl'i:. I '!. 12 thy niall).
Mrs. Vleieek, motlu r of the editor of
the Fatherland, a New York pro
German publication, was stripped and
searched by llrltlab authorities at
Falmouth and nlso at Downs when
j tho
Hutch liner Nlnuw Amsterdam
htoppcd at those ports, according to
fellow pasnemji'is who arrived here
to'-d.iy.
Mrs. Vieieck almost collupeud fiom
her humiliating expeiienco. S'oveial
other AniericaiiH wore also repoited
to hau been dlnrubtd fm examinn-tluu.
FEBRUARY 29,
NEARLY I
Converted Cruiser La Provence
Sunk in the Mediterranean
m m m m mwm v. m- m m mm. m m mm mm. wrmm mm I
CAN' WARN AMU IN KS
IF THEY WOULD FIRE-BERLIN
Note Says Lusitania
Pledge
Referred Only to Un
armed Merchantmen.
WASIIINCTON, Feb, 29. Follow
ing nro the exact terms of the Her
man note, submitted yesterday by
Ainbas s.idor Von llernstorff, rcgrti-d-Ing
the new IT-Tioat warfare planned
to begin to-night:
"The, Imperial (5ocrnnieni reiter
ates tho pledges given on Sept. 1 and
Oct. 13, 191G, and docs not consider
that thrsa assurances havo been mod
ified by subsequent events, The ne
gotiations conducted between tho
Amorcian nnd German Governments
concerning the Lusltunla Incident
never referred to frmcd merchant
men, "On tho contrary, thn note of the
American Government of May 13
spoke cxpiessly of 'unarmed mer
chantmen.' Furthermore, tho formula
agreed upon by both. Governments on
Sept. 1 contained the proviso,, 'pro
vided that thoy do not offer resist
ance.' "Tho presence of aruiameiit on
(Continued on Sixth Page.)
SENATE SCHOOL BILL
IN MAXWELL'S FAVOR ?
Ae.iMire Uiuild Create Oltice of
biiperiiitendent Hnieritu. in
This City.
ALIIANV, Fell. 1"J. Senator lti lau
to-'lay Introduced u bill to amend tho
charter of New Vork City by author
izliiK appointment nfter Oct. 11, H'lC,
of n city HUperlntenilont of schools
emeritus, to take effect .Ian. 1, I'JtT.
The duty of such superintendent
shall be "to consult and ndvlso with
the educational olllclals whenever, In
(lis Judgment, It shall lie nucess.ny.
It is said the position is to bo create I
for Supt Muxuell jf tlm Now Vork
C.t) achooU,
"Circulation Hooka Open
191G. 18 PAGES
t i ? ' !"' !
WOMAN PEDESTRIAN IS
KILLED JIUUTOS CRASH
Big Touring Car Kuns Over. Her
After Crashing Into Another
Machine in Brooklyn.
As she was c.osiIhk the tnei at
Slvtli Avenue and Lincoln Place.
Ilrioklvn, this nfieriioon, an unldeiiti
lled woman, almiu sixty eais old,
was killed In an auloinobllo collision,
ono of the cars passing over her lin
foro she could step out of the way.
The machine that killed her was a
tourlnir car owned by Frank Spencer,
No. 2II0I Amsterdam Avenue, Man
hattan, and driven by Hugh Camp
bell of No. "71 Fifty-second Street,
Brooklyn.
In tills machine wfie Mis. Kemp
and her daughter, Vera, of No. 42K
Seventy-third Street, llrooklyu. As
they neared Sixth Avenue, going west
on Lincoln Place, their ear crashed
Into a small delivery motor car owned
by the All-Paekago Grocery Stores
Company, and dtlven tiy Warren M
Wells of No. ill" Fast Fifth Street,
llrooklyu, The smaller ear was tossed
across the sidewalk- and the lamci
one p.'iHieiil over tho woman. None of
ttie occupants of cither car was In
jured. Cipt. John (.'oughllu, at the Hergen
Stieet Station, questioned hoili driv
ers and then let them go. The vic
tim, whose body was removed lo
the station house, mm about five
feet seven Inches tall, weighed 130
pounds, wore a three-quarter length
dark coat, dark skirt, gray sweater,
black stockings and shoes, black el.
vet hat and black fur muff.
I,n in n r Oil Itrvleiv of Cfitr,
WASHINGTON. Feb. SO. The United
Stall's Supremo Couit has ordered s
roUuw of the cn.se of David Uunar,
convicted of iinpeiMonutiiiK an nlllcer of
tlm Pulled Miitey. A writ of certio
rari wai. iirjiited and Lamar will lmu a
hearing befoDi thu court on the merits
of hit tuo, and in tin intuit tlmu liv
will be Ire.
to All.'
x.
fWENTY BIG SHIPS HUNT i
I OVER MEDITERRANEAN SEA - I
!, FOR SURVIVORS OF DISASTER!
.
Whether Fast Liner, Which Had :
Been Turned Into an Auxiliary J
Cruiser. Was Tornedoed. Hit a i
Mine or Met
Not Revealed.
WAS FILLED WITH TROOPS,
PROBABLY
I'AHIS, Feb. 21). Between 900
have perished in the sinking of. the, Frcnch.auxUiary crujsjMJlrqxgBce ln..
I lie mill-Mediterranean Sufurilay. AMi!ounceriienf7)nhcs.fs
made until lo-day. ' . v
day
Of I, Moo persons ab.urd the
Ministry oi Marine declares, about
have rushed to the scene in search of more survivors.
Two hundred and ninety-six of the crew have been landed at Malta
and about -loo on the Creek bland of Melos.
Subiiuiiiies are known to have been operating in the mid-MeuMter-
raiiean for some time, the British steamer l-'astuet and a Swedish steamer ;
having been torpedoed in lliose waters
There is nothing in the despatches to indicate whether the I'rovenc?
uas torpedoed by a U-boat, lilt a mine or met with aii'accident.
Recently the British censor has eliminated all references to subma
rine attacks allowing messages stating that a steamer has been torpedoed
t read only "was sunk." The French censor, However, has permitted
correspondents to cable the fact that ships have been submarined.
La Provence was In the French Lino service between Ncv York nnd
Havre, and until tho coming of thn Lusitania and .Muurctanlu held several
records for speed. After the outbreak of the war Lu Provenco made but ono
trip to New York and was then rftken over by the French Admiralty as an
auxiliary cruiser.
Inasmuch a the steamer has been
i niincnt, no nows has as et reached
to the disaster.
La Piovence entered tho Trailsatlantlc service when the speed rivalry
among the llrliish. Frent h and German
lu u number of exciting races, lu ono
Mauietauia.
Lu Provenco vwis built at St. Naiulre, France, lu l'JUO. Sho hud a grossj
tonnago, of 11,100 and was Wl feet in
twenty-four to twenty-llvo knots an
dnys hho iivoruged about twenty-ono
like the other steamers of tho French
Shipping lists show a second
only :;.U 1 1 ions, and It is doubtful
crowded with l.Stlu persons, even lit such an emergency us carrying troops. '
lu all probability the Piovence was carrying troops either from or ta
S.ilouica. 'lite Islands of Malta and Melos, where survivors wero landed,
are in. in miles apart Mdus lies off thu touthcast coast of Greece. It Is
probable that the Provenco was sunk somewhere between tho Greek west
coast and the island oi' Malta.
SMALL FIRE HOLDS UP
FIFTH AVENUE RUSH
Blaze al Coiner nl l-orl-voiid
Sheet Looked Like Conil.tgra
tinii for a While.
Tmllle at p'ortj -w cond Slier l and
Fifth Avenuo was held up early this
atternoon because of a smoky tiro lu
til" M'Vell-Hton oldie building Ull the
southeast corner. The llro started In
rubbish In the basement and was not
of serious Importance, but it gen
erated enough smoko for a con
llagratloli. Tho clanging die apparatus and
tin' dense smoke gathered a big
crowd, completely blocking the tralllc
and causing automobiles and wagons
to i ome ti a itiindstill for blocks.
Tho lireuuii llnall chopped a hole in
the Moor of the Pennsylvania Unit
road ticket oilier and got at the
muoktt factory beneath.
PRICE ONE CENT.
SUNK;!
With Accident Is
FOR BALKANS
and 1 ,000 persons are believed to
cruiser, the latest statement from the
S7o have been saved. Twenty vessels
within the past few days.
under the direct orders of tho Gov-
the French Lino olllco In Now York as
Hues wits at its height, nnd engaged j
of which she defeated thu Cuimrder-
length. Tho steamer was capablo ati
hour for several years, hut In hor latter!
knots, Sho was built on cruiser lines,
Line licet.
steel steamer Provence, but she Is ot :
whether such u small boat would bo"
IN YEAR BRITAIN SPENT
1,509,000,000 POUNDS
National lixpenditure for the Last
Twelve Months Greatest of
All Belligerents. j
LONDON, Fell. 29. Addreslng tho
Chamber of Commerce to-day, Regi
nald Mc.K'enna. Chancclor of tho Kx
cheiiuer. estimated tho National ex
penditures for tho current year would
reach the Klcantic total of 1,0011,000,000
pounds sterling.
The GoNcrnmunt, he said, was pre
pared to give assistance for tho da
vehipment of foreign trado lu order
that rivals who wero "Great Hritaln'H
bitter enemies" should not. as In tha
past, enjoy control of the foreign
trade.
Tiie Chancellor said Great UritalnU
personal national expenditures was
higher than that of any of the other
belligerent power ,
)
