Y -
Randolph One
Will Put You in Quick 7 ouch
With 7 he T-D Want Ad Man
Dr. Brady's Tall^s
Don't Miss Them?Something
Interesting Every Day
36th YEAR SKSffii S < RICHMOND, VA., TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 29, (916.?TWELVE PAGES i?X"'Kn ?RAIN. PRICE, 2 CENTS
MANY REPEATS i
ASSURANCES GIVEN i
IN LUSITANIA CASE
Not Modified by Order to
Treat Armed Merchant
men as War Vessels.
GOES INTO OPERATION
^evAT MIDNIGHT TO-NIGHT
Submarines.
PROOF .WWWTKl) ritOM UKKM.V
I*. K. Will \??t .Art If Anicricnn Is
Injured on Oflrnsh ol.v- \ rmoil
\'e.s>>rls.
WASIIIXflTftN'. Kftu'DHry -s ???-r -
many, In a formal note presented hy
'?ounl voti licmiitorfr to Secretary Lan
sing to-day. reiterates assuraices rc
Knrflliig the fin tirr conduct uf subma
rine warfnrn cieon in t h<- l.usitania
case: doola roe tiios.. assurances hrtvo
tldt beOll modified h\ tin: memorandum
setting fort! i*.- uitomiui to tic.it
armed iiu-iThantpii m <.f tin- out.-. nt?
>111 ie?* as auxiliary fiiiisf-r.- after mtd
liiifht tii-muvi..w, attempts to
Justify tin- isHuani'i' of the memorandum
by presenting evi.iem ? ami assertions
designed to show that the IPitish kov
ernmen l ha* ius I ci i ? ? t oil me f*ha n t men
to U.sc their at i ii am'-lit fur purpi^.*s of
attack iii v iolat ion uf a?snrame- given
to tluj L'nito.i St a! i-,'.
l,at?r it sabl it the Slate I Ji~
? partition t that whflo. th< I"siit1 State."
stood unalterably 'or ?in- right of a
frjrif rchiutt ship to i.,try v?nir' foi de
fensive pu poses it ? i" not now. am!
" novrr hak beep. font?'tif|;i that Attieri
icans could travel with imoiu'tit\ on
'.ship:- haviitu- or>l? > to ;? t off< nsi\ o|y.
pit w a said that .' t he rlamr ^ i-rr1
ntUfttaincd. i In fart would lmv?s iVn tiii
' porta lit l.?arm? <ipon thi> future atti
t'l?I? ? of this government
A itipy of rhc so-callod 1'ntish in
struct io nr. whirli wore handed to \m
hubt.il11oi i Sera i <1 in Merlin. ami which
are lonshlorod l.\ ;?i 'tetar; I?ansin;r
to ho tlit: All-Import.int element in I It
situation r - it :itamis at |irouf-nt, h;:
not arrived. i'emliui; t "... it- ipt ami
a subt-cquent il.oi?i..n i. tai <Ji: ;; the
AltltUili? Of t!i?' l*li!'i>l .-5 til t e> tin Stale
Oepaitmenr i.- pr.pai..| to ? on.-i.]oi any
o\ Ti art a t i I'lnptfi >.? ihe conuiianf|?rs
of (Iia (?crtuan ami Aut-tiiati submarines
nt tli.' light of r;io J ui: it xva. ;1U.
thorilnt iv?l\ slated tha* the depart
ment tVOtlbi ll.-t l-i *1 pull I 111- ,;|M> ,,f
an A merle.tti ? lm itMani'il Injuries
ihoard a vo.-:.| n lu. h I ? 1,.' .p.H
liltely establish, d ? . of! en-i vol
*n nifd
liltitimi t.o\ cits ?ii?;vi
'i'(i ? iniiiAT \ r.i.i;i. \ i k,n
A u I liori t a 11 \ ?? jntoi a.a'iou <?t.ta lr>?;?l
h'-l'C to-nivrlit iii'ti- 11i hut 11.. Hr!!
iKh ?:??vrriioKtir pio|,al>l> umihl ?oir,
iMt a 11 o^.11 inn;. ..f ? iortiiati v tl.it r.jit
ijili Kliip aitn.i! i. n j:.l? (p f.-n.o
rc in rralnv an I for otf<m--iM pin.
OiiO^. Jt v a .sail that Kltish ina Mors
nild 1IOI 1 ? I 11. ; ,( I,, Jiuiil I,,f
?iuhinuilnf.M: that, on Hi. .ontrar;. (hoy
hu?| ht>en tohl lo il./ I |-y I pi I,..
hlc to avoid tli- (raft, ami ihat o-.ly
iii the cvt-^ til a ho. til* ?athmarinc ap
proHchlnp witlmut wartiiim iio.ir onon^h
to ns. hoinl.M or torpotlot;}-: u .to tho
!tkipp?-rs autlioii?.?l t.-> nso thoir ^ntip.
All lhlii|>s . oii- l.lrr-.1 tho Statf l?o.
yai tniont Is nii.l.M-xt^o'l in feel that tho
po?-aihi tity i:< inn:*, or loj*? rcmoto of
iliftlcultii^^ arising in the near future
?in a > c.stilt of Hi.* no'.v C.-i inan ;iti?l
Austrian poTioy. T(,.> h?1lef (,f otlicinls
tliat comniuiulcrs of. C.-rman and Aus
trian submarines will not attack with
out warning armed merchant vessels
upon which there may l?t; Americans,
was .strengthened by tin* declaration in
the t Sorman note received to-?lay. u<-.
.(tiiopeeil in b> Austria throw tli Itaron
ZwiedineU, eliartfe" or 11< Am triaii em
bussj here. Ihat the otilor. Issued to
tho ti.i v a 1 commanders \v? r?' so formu
lated as to prevent the dostruetion of
Dncin> liners "on ae.'ouut of their
armament, i.nlesv sueh armament is
pro\ od "
In the notpi ??seined by Counl * on
Ucrnstorff .several i. feniices are made
to dcelarntioiut <,t the t'ulted States
? it the previom oor; jspomleniv in the
r.u.Nitania ease. Th.-t ? were str(.n? in
HnuillOlts to i!;ij that ad minis) rat ion
leaders arc in.lined to retsent the rep
i escnt a tiou of ceriain expressions with-'
out the text in which th.-v appear.-d.
holding: th;it in doi.i^- so the fSermai. '
government is withbohiiuu the attitude
of this crovernment. It is evi-n argued
that, .should the l.'nited States reply to'
the. note presented to-day. it ma> take'
occasion to correct ibis.
to nr. ( <?.\sint;i<i:i>
in PltK.K||)|.;VT Ttl-llAV
The communication froi.i Germany
probably will bo. considered by Presi
dent Wilso.i and his Cabinet to-mor
row, ami oflicial indication rojjH r<l tng
it Is expected soon thereafter
The note at the outset reiterates the
previous pledges, which war,. Riven on
September 1 and on October r> last year
for the safety ??f unresisting ships, and
thori goes on to say the German gov
ernment does not believe those assur
ances hnve been motiilled by the. now
m>y.\v.
( . THtringr tlx- negotiations over the
l.usltunln. it says, no mention was made
? ?f armed merchantmen, and that the
United States in one of its notes on the
l.usltanin mentioned armed merchant
men. Attention is called to the
assurances previously given. in which
it is stated that liners i/ill not be sunk
without warning, piovideu they do not
offer resiBtnnee. Attention also is
called to the. statement, of the Amer
ican government in Its .ioliee to port
Authorities that the pren.'ree of arma
ment. on board a merchant vessel cre
ites the assumption J.at the vessel is
armed for offense.
L It Is stated that a submarine com
kinnder cannot lie expired to warn an
^kemy merchantman has a right
(Continued on Sei'-Aml n.nr? i
GORDON RENEWS
CONRAD PROPOSAL
i
Louisa Delegate Offers Amend
ment Making Attorney-Gen
eral Commissioner.
AGAINST CREATING OFFICE
Would Have All Whisky Ship
ments Made Through Central
Office in Charge of State.
Amendments to the Mapp prohibition
bill. offered ?'*t tIi?? public hearing on
the measttte jcslenlay before the House
Committee on Moral and Soei-.il Wel
fare. promise to stage in the lo we r
house as determined si fight on some
of the major provisions :ts developed
in its storm* passage through th?*
Senate
The first amendment sent to the
desk, offered by Delegate fJordon, mem
ber of the com rn 1t tee. a lid a recognized
"dry" leader. mak* s the Attorney-'ien
? era! commissioner of prohibition, fol
lowing <>n. this point almost the exact
InnRiKi?'1 of the amendment cham
pioned in the uppet house by Senator
Conrad it was given prompt and
earnest Indorsement by Delegate I,ove,
another member of the committee, who
urged it ay the plan that will cause
th?- smallest amount of friction.
\\ \ N'l> SIM-H'l.t I. tl.lA I'
TO St l?KltVINK MIII'MKMS
\ otul arnendment offered by Dele
gat* Cordon provides for the appoint
ment of a tpeclal agent bv and
? under the immediate direction of the
vx officio i oinmlsBionet of prohibition,
through whom individuals desiring to
take advantage of the provisions for
minimum monthly supply of intoxi
cants shall make all their purchases.
Instead of allowing each person to
order lit- monthly .supply from a non
resident dealer, to h<- checked up as
to frequency and quantity by the de
livery otliee of the common carrier, the
'iordon amendment would require such
persons to place their whisky, win*
and beer orders with the special agent,
whose otliee would at all times liav**
on tile accurate information as to tin
date of the applicant'^ last purchase,
an<i who would maintain a general su
pervision of the liquor traffic as far
as it i:i authorized by the Mapp bill.
SA 1 > ST ATI: SllOt I.I)
? <;r\kanti*:k its im kitv
Delegate Dove joined Mr. Oordon on
the agency proposition, looking upon
this device .is ni,i?'>..s;iri to protect the
Stat<- against the tlooil of \iic con*
1 ructions which, he t.a id. will he sup
plied to its citizens by unscrupulous
dealers. If the consumer i-~ to he tc
slricteti to one <|ttart of whisky it
mouth, he ??-aid. it was entirely proper
that the State shall provide machinery
for guaranteeing the purity of that,
product.
Tin commit tei , t from :?.? o'clock i
until and took a recess of two hours.
I: met again at > o'clock, and remained
in . ession until after 11. adjourning j
without reporting the bill The com- ;
mitic- will hold another meeting :it 3
o'clock thi: afternoon, vith the proh- j
ability that a report w ill be agreed ;
upon before adjournment.
Cider maiiei from the fruit-growing
sections registered a strong protect
with the i iiiiiniitti ( against the stric
tures of the .Mapp bill on this indus- :
try. The act a: passed b; the Sen
ate prohibits the manufacture for sale
of cider containing more than one-half
of 1 pci cent of alcohol.
H\l> FAITII is < IIAIM.KD
i \ ciDKit rito\ ISIOVS
Professor W. !?. Allwood. of Albemarle
County, looked upon the cider provi
sion its .nn art of bad faith on the part
of prohibition leaders who sought sup
port for the enabling art in September,
1M4. on the strength of the promiso
implied, if nor actually expressed, that
the manufacture and pale of cider
would in no way be interfered with
when the l.cgislaturo of IPI'j drew up
the full prohibition program. In now
undertaking virtually to kill this in
dustry. lie said, the prohibitionists
)ia\e taken an unfair advantage of the
apple growers, who realize a largo
revenue from the sale of their wind
fall and cull fvu-t. and the owners and
operators of cider mills, who have much
money invested in this business.
Professor Allwood was closely ques
tioned by members of the committee,
particularly by C'hairman .lordan. as ?o
the intoxicating effect of cider at
given alcoholic strengths. When pure
and unadulterated with preservatives,
said Professor Allwood, eider, with as
much as ii per cent of alcohol, is a
wholesome beverage, far less harmful
in its effects than coffee It is the
product viciouslv compounded with
adulterants that is sold for cider, ho
said, which Is responsible for thu
drunkenness that is unjustly attributed
to the pure juice of the apple.
HAS STl'DIISD rOMMTlOXS
I.V KOHKKiN rot VntlKS
The speaker told of his study of tins
drink problem in Kurope and of his
conclusion that in countries like tier
many and France, where beer and
light wines are served on the table
ami consumed almost from infancy tip,
the drink evil is by no means ,as pro
nounced as it is in America and Kng
land. He bad no sympathy with com
pulsory prohibition.
"Then jou are not opposed to the
cider provisions of this bill alone- you
s<re against the whole bill, aren't you."
asked Delegate Moss, of the committee
"You are an optimist, and believe that
the world Is getting better if let
alone."
"Yes. the world will get better tl
you'll give it a chance ? if you dan'l
legislate so much." replied Professor
Allwood.
.1. Martin and .1. K. Pcrryntnn, of
Charlottesville. eider and vinegar
manufacturers, told the committee that
they would be unable to continue their
business under the bill nr; it stood,
since it was a practical impossibility
'tn v
Verdun, French l'ortress Against Which Germans Are Directing Great Drive
;
.\ View of the City ??f Yenluii. on the Mcusc Itiver. in France.
SENATE OPENS DEBATE
ON CO-ORDINATE COLLEGE
Itrilliunt Argument For and Against
Itill, Without Decisive
Art Ion.
Al>l>isn.\ tH'FIOKS A.Mi:\l>Mi;\T
Wants Normal Srhool Hoard to In
veMigatc and l{e|iort on l-'easibil
it> i?f Turning One of Those Insti
tutions Into Standard College.
Seii'imMH in the Senate for est-?b.
lisbina ;t colbjre for women
Charlottesville, co-ordinate 111? ihe
University of Virginia. will b<- put to
the test early in the t e to-day,
when Sena'oi \ddison. of Lynchburg,
will off?? i amendment lo :h?* 1'atly
bill directing the Slate Vorinal S hool
Hoard t <> invent tpate the ad\isa btli ly
of t \ ;ia rulin- one of the normal
s-'H'ols Into a standat ?1 college with a
four-year course and report Its find
ings to tlit tirnrral Assembly
Supplauttiisr the troublous prohibi
tion bill as- i special ordei on the
Senate calendar. the measure ilcsi^lioil
to aive the wiiimii of the Common
w > a 111 > ? i tit t opp'H tunit ? Willi iln'ir
tU"i ?- fi>i tuiiat? I?t others of t ?? '-eivlng
t he collegia t ?? IraiiiMn; iiUVrcl !???' tin?
Slat*.'':- prriiU'r nr;t i I Ull-ni oi b-artiinir
u .is the Mil?J? cl > <?>!i-:'day of i bril
liant forensic encounter betivt'rii defl
ator Aubrej K. Strode, of Amherst,
who is one of the i opat i ons> of the
loll, ami his versatile deskniatv. S???i
alor Addison
ui.it vit; \o
TIOT OI-' vritl'.M.TII
Debate lasted throughout the day
without the first te;*t <if strength. the
Senate adjourning :it G o'clock, with
Senator Addi.son still holding the lloor.
It is not likeU that the argument will
b<- oonrl tided until late in the after
noon to-day. Seuatot Karlv. sponsor
for tin- measure. lias yet to enter the
debate in its behalf.
Of Wide interest throughout (lie
State, the tirst day's5 argument on the
measure attracted an overflow etowd
to the gallery and the floor of the
Senate. Women from c ver\ section
of the Commonwealth - high school
trirls with visions of a brilliant earner
at the fountaiishead of the State's pub
lic school system and stately matrons
with ambitious plans for the future of
yet heedless daughters?stormed tie
halls of the upper branch of the <Jun
eral Assembly to watch the tide of
battle.
Korg?lful <>f the di g nified decorum
that characterizes the proceeding* of
the Virginia Slate Senate, the crowd
broke into grateful applause when
Senator Strode, in the midst of sit;
eloquent appeal for the passage of the
bill, paused to pay tribute, to Mrs.
JScverly L!.' Munford. who has been un
tiring in her efforts to pilot the meas
ure to success.
I'AVS Tit Itll TIC TO WOltlv
OK JIKS. II. II. lit Nl'llllll
"At the very outset." lo- said, "it
wan the good foituite of those who
propounded this measure to attract and
lo enlist the active interest of a mem
ber of that sex which it was peculiarly!
designed to serve, and a sex whose wel
fare nan be touched at no point with
out affectum ihe common welfare of
us all. .Since then, with what beauti
ful tact, with what splendid intelli
gence, with what persevering industry,
with what consecration to a high
ideal she has carried on this contest.
1 need not remind those who know
her.
"bong after the names of any of us
phall have been forgotten, the women
of Virginia will bear in grateful
memory the name of Mary Itrauch
Munford, who. as mother, wife and
citizen, by the bright example of her
useful life, has adorned the annals of
this Common wealth: and may wo not
say with full assurance at the outset
that I li is proposition, sponsored by
her, Ineks no element of true woman-I
(Continued on Fifth F'age ?
IMS TO KIM* :
OLD MEN WIEflE LIID OFF1
linanrc Committee Declines to
Shoulder Onus of Sweeping
Reductions.
I
MA* \(>T H.WK VOTF.D illiiUT'
Administrators Decline to Attend
Meeting, hut Send Written State-,
nient Concerning lvvpenditures.,
Take Cp llond Issue Friday Xiglit.
D*.i linirnr to app?;ir last night bef ?te
the specia 1 meeting ()f the Kliuitice!
? "oininift.ee. called to ti.v to establish
? a more harmonious relation hitwv.nl
tin* board and the committer, the Ad-'
( ininislrative Hoard font :i l.'tter ex
plaining why, with its alleged limited
Mfl'i ..pi lation. it had h-en forced to.
twenty -live men from 'he
Water I?epartmcnt. and in its absence*
?ah se\ oly arraigned by most of the
members of the coinniit i .><?
?' ?*. .limes declared vehemently that
he was shocked nt the attitude of t ho
! hoard in tailing 'o co-opetate with the
Kitiancr t'onnnlttoe and to m.ordinate '
its efforts towards tlx- solution of a:
to'olileiii tii.it threatened t.i heroine
more vexinc
I f it ? oic.es to a <|iic?rion between
? he ?'it\ . ..un.il and th- Klnancc font-'
mitteo on the one side and the Admin
istra11 \ >? ll'ianl <>n th.' other, let the
people decide the issue. 1, for one,
? mi nc't afraid to leave all matters m
their hands" ?'outicilmen Sea ton and
llnddoii an.I Alderman Workman tal
lowed m 11Ko strain, hut Councilman ?
1* fed ||. Powell was disposed to lay
part of the hiatne on the City Council, j
say ins: tliar it had decreased its reve
nue $:.s.i>w? hy lowering the price of|
gas. and that it had had an opportunity j
to reduce the membership of the Ad-1
miuistrative lioard. and thus save 'ho
city other latere sums.
"KI'IAItS IIS \C.'TIO\ l\
\\ HITTK.V STATKMIONT
In its I*-11r t.i the committee, the
Adiuinistr;.11ve Hoard based its action ?
in discharging t wettly-liv,?cn froi(l
the Water I '?-partment on the grounds
that there would be otherwise an ex-'
penditure of fmo.OOO for the pay-roll
.'iccoiint fm the accomplishment of
work amounting to $ H.U00. and that if
the men were replaced there would'
result the startling situation of a
""?v "f SI-3.000 fur the execution
ot JM.fi'O worth of work, including the
put.'has. of all necessary material.
Answers to the board's statement by
the committee were made categorically.
The letter follows:
"February 2s. l!)j?;.
"?'omniiitee ..ii Cinance:
"The Administrative Hoard having'
ri ceivcd an im itation from the sub
(-)iaiiuian of your committee to be
present at a meeting of the commit tee
to be held this night concerning tho
appropriation made for the Water De
partment. and especially the deficiency!
now existing the pay-roll account
b.v reason of the curtailment of the
appropriation to that account, i am'
directed by the hoard to inform you
that, after duly considering the mat
ter. llicy have concluded that their'
presence would he unnecessary, and
the> have deemed it wiser to communi
cate with you in writing as follows:
"The appropriation made by the
' ouncil for general expenses of the
Water Department was SsO.OOO and the
appropriation for pa> roll was Sinn.- :
<">0. It appeal s to the board, after!
careful examination of all the facts in!
the ease, that approximately i;, t?,r
cent of the $$0,000 appropriated for ex- !
l.enses would be consumed by the tixed '
charges for maintenance and operation
of the Settling ltasiris alone. This,
would leave aoout S4I.<)00 for the n- |
era I expense account of the Water
Works, which would include, of course,
all tlx.' necessary expenses for exten
sion. maintenance and repairs of the
entire supply system of the city, and
produces this tinrensoiiable sitiiati<>n: |
the expenditure of a pay roll of #ioO.- i
I oao for the accomplishment of work i
fContinui'd on Th ltd" j 'age.") j
FELIX DIAZ TO LH
REVOLUTION III INCO
Hopes t?? Lead Troop* of His Xu
livo State. of Oaxaea Against
< 'HiTiin/.a.
FMIIFS I . S. FKIHOIIAI* AUKNTS
Leaves New Orleans for Havana t??
.loin Some of His Countrymen.
Xephew of Former" President and
Friend of llnerta.
WASHINGTON. Fcbruii ry 28.? Felix
Diaz, who lias burn watched for several
months by Department of JuMiee.
a sen Is because of snspfi'tcil activities
in violation of American neutrality, ap
parently has left the Fnited States for
M??xn-o with the intention of launching
a new revolution against the t'arranzn
ile facto Kovermn't)!. Informal ion
reaching officials here indicates that
lie hopes to organize ami leail the
troops of his native SSt.nte of Oaxaea and
such other forces in Southern .Mexico
;is he can Rather about him
General I Max. left New Orleans on
Friday for Havana, where several
Mexicans whose names have been as
sociated with his in reports of another
r< volutionarv movement were supposed
to be await intr iiiui. Teodnro f'-hesa. a
former Governor <>i" Vera Ortiz. and
General Anrelioatio Hlatuiuet. Win
Ministei umii'i llucrta, were reported
to be among them.
Although Diaz eluded the Federal
agent* detailed to watch him. Depart
inent of Justice ollieials said to-night
that, since no evidence warranting' his
arrest had been found, and as he left
the country, according to reports, as a
private citizen of Mexico and not as
leader of any organized revolutionary
movement, not hi nv; probably could have
been done to detain liitn.
NO 1)1 It KIT i:\ IDKMCK
DKYICI.OPKD AG A I.VST 11IM
General Diaz, a nephew of the former
Mexican President of that name, lias
been absent from Mexico since llucrta,
whom lie helped establish in power,
sent, him abroad on a diplomatic mis
sion. Most of this time he lias spent
in the I'nited States, ami. although he
was suspected of being connected with
the revolutionary plot for which
llnerta and several others were in
dicted. in. direct evidence aiaunst him
ever developed.
Oaxaea. where Diaz i expected to
launch his movement, is the only state
that has held aloof during the fighting
of the past two years l.ed by state
officials, tile people declared their in
dependence, and Carranza and oilier
leaders were told that the state would
lie glad to resume its place in the
union whenever an\ one demonstrated
that he had restored a stable central
u overnmcn t.
After ?'a rranza's recognition l>\ the
foreign governments, lie chose not to
parley with the people of iiaxaca. de
manding thai they accept his govern
ment uncoiidit ionall*. It is towards
this nucleus of organized resistance
that Diaz is said to he moving, accom
panied by Lee Christmas, an American
widol.\ known throughout Central
America because of his participation
in revolutionary enterprises.
DOt IIT Dl A'/.'S Mill.I'l l
TO l.l-'/l' \V \ It St IM'I.IF.S
*
Willi Oaxaea as a base, it is said
Diaz mifiht marshal L'ft.OOO men. but
that they would not be properly
e<|^iipped and have almost no artillery.
Ollieials here do not consider him a
menace to Oi rr/i nza. as they douiil
Diaz's ability to get aiiimiinilioti iml
supplies. Tltcy admit, however, thai
an organizeil revolution among the
bills of ^rnitheru Mexico, where a small
band might hold out against vastlv su
perior forces, would further complicate
the already complex situation confront
ing the fie facto President.
Dentil of llolirrt K. I.re.
N'KW OKI-KAN'S. Februarv 'JS
Hobcrt K. I.ce. prominent m labor and
Democrat it* political circles, died here
to-day of heart trouble. Ile was fiftv
threc years old. and served einlit terms
as president of the Central Trades and
l.uhor Council of New Oilcan
j Impetus of Assaulting (icrman
Forces \?>t Diminished by Fu
rious Artillery Fire.
CI.ASII Ml'KDKIUU'S TO ItOTII
Ke?inients Which Occupied Fort
llouiiuiiiont Cut Off ami Sur
rounded by French, Willi Attack
ing Armies HccoiliiiK Slightly.
I'.\ Ills, February .'7 ?delayed).? "A
, ft ighiful massacre.' is how Hermans
' taken prisoner In the bailie of Verdun
; describe-the effect. oMhe?French nrtil
, lory, ntitchine-irun and rifle tire. f.ut
.the impetus of the assaulting forces
was not diminished thereby during the
. tlrst four 'lays, because fresh troops
I wore thrown into the battle unceus
I irmly.
'An ad \ a lice, no matter what, '.he
losses in a y he," wiis the ..riler cixen
to the Herman troops before the at
j tack. I hi:< is verified l>y documents
found on one of tli?; raptured oil leers.
I he inoi.t critical time in the stx
(days' action was when the Hermans
Knitted a footing m Fort Poiiaumont.
Any hesitation on the part of the'
defenders would have been disastrous
The Hermans redoubled their efforts
! ?ake advantage of any confusion,
but the French immediately began a
? ?o\mtrrolTeiisivf
I* rench infantry adv anced at dniihic
Miiiok time to the tin in pel chat-Ke <iml
leaped at the Hist ranks of the Ger
mans with irresistible fury. The cbish
was murderous to both sides. The
thinned I-reuch tanks were nor to bo
denied, but \?e?t on to the second Uer
man ? i?K, while re-enforcements wore
hurried to their support. The Herman
lines wavered first, then were driven
out of the ruins of the fort.
Fir.itt i: \it i ii.i,i:it\ m ki.
Anns to Tin-: i Aii\.tt;i;
A cr.\ of triuinpli went up all along:
the French line, and the ardor of the
counterattack was redoubled. In tho
meantime. artillery duel, surpassing
?n intensity anv previous action of the
war. added to the carnage
I he battle now seems to have
reached a critical point. The assault.
? UK fotces have recoiled slightly j?
the region ot I>ouauiiioik. leavin the
regiments which occupied the fort cut
??ri"unded b> French troops
l he attacks upon the French left ,,t
1 eppet 11 ill (Cote-du-l'olvrei seemed
to have failed completely. However
attacks made repeatedly with s ..-li
heav> mass, s as the Hermans at e .-on
st a i.: |y Ihi,iK?ip ,, K a d m 111 ed bv
military authorities. are always ItkHv
to make further gains, provided the
ollicers are willing to psi> lho
in hiiuiaa life.
There :s no exaggerated optimism to
'?? found in military circles here. t.?t
tie check of the Hermans attacking
in sucli formidable numbers is regarded
I'.v thein as one of the ureal achieve
men is of .he war. ami it is genera 11 v
held Unit events have taken a turn
unite favorable to f|,? French arms u,
the last twenty-four hours.
DEMOCRATS GATHERING
Advance t.iuird of llelegnlr* O. Nevr
% ork Stiitr ( on\eulbiu Arrh
Injt nt Syracuse.
^ LSI-.. X. v., Fehruarx 2.5..
The advance guaid of delegate* to the
democratic State Convention. which'
wiM *??-? held here on Wednesday,
arrived here to-night. Charles F.
Murphy, leader of Tammany Hall, is
cxpecicd early to-morrou
The convention Is to name four dele
gates at large and four alternates to I
the national convention at St. Louis
and recommend a candidate for na
tional committeeman to succeed Nor
man !?;. Mack, of Mnffalo, who has
herved sixteen years.
I 'elegat.'s who arrived to-night were j
provided with buttons bearing a picture
of I'resident Wilson and the words!
"Safety First '
French Report That Attacks
of Infantry Have Been
Checked.
FORT DOUAUMONT IN HANDS
OF TEUTONS. BUT IN RUINS
Around This Position Most Des
perate Fighting of Battle
Is in Progress.
FIKIW'K ARTIIjIjEUY 1) 1 T*. I, S
Kaiser's Armies Inaugurate Impor
tant Movement in t ham
paune District.
The tide of battle around Verdun
apparently ha? not turned in favor
of fit her si ilc. Wliile the Germans*
claim further advances. the French are
equally emphatic in their assertion that
they chtclicil the attacks of the masses
of the German infantry <--ent asfainst
them.
Fori Dounumont has fallen to the
Germans, but it is reported t.o ho in
ruins. Arouml this position the most
desperate fighting of the battle has
ltoen srolncr on since. Friday. Here
French counterattack.* were delivered
with such crushing force that some of
the German detachments were driven
hack, anil one rccimcnt is almost en
circled. To the west of this fort, in a
hand-to-hand encounter, the French
have ejected the Germans from a small
redoubt which they had captured.
Throughout ihe entire sector of Ver
dun, except on the western bank of
the .Mouse River. where the German
bombardment has slackened somewhat,
the artillery duels arc still of vast
proportions. To the southeast, the
I'roiich at Kresnes. in the Woe\re re
gion. have put down two German at
tacks a pa i list that town, but the Ger
mans have inaugurated an important
movement In the Champa cite district,
where by a surprise at tuck they suc
ceeded in entering French advanced
positions of a supporting trench over
a tront of nearly a mile, capturing
more than I.onn men.
kkkoiits or iti-:srcu\i:s
iti:i>oiiri:i) i:si;i.i>s
Notwithstanding the fresh reserve!
the French have thrown into the fray
at Fort Douuumont. the German Waf
Orticfl declares that their efforts have
licen fr 11 iiless, and that the Germans
have advanced their lines towards Uras
and Vacherauville. ft also is claimed
that the Germans have entirely ex
pelled the French from the Mouse Pen
insula. southward from Samogueux and
west of Vacherauville.
<>n the Russian front, around Fried
riehstadt and llloukst, there has been
heavy artillery, machine gun and rifle
fire In Gallcia, the Russians repulsed
an attempt by the Austrn-1 iungnrians
to capture trenches on Ihe middle
Sir I pa I liver.
The Austrian*, according to Vienna,
have put down with sail quinary losses
an Italian attack again?*! positions on
both sides of Monte San Miehelo and
e.ist of Azr.o. and also destroyed an
Italian trench on the GoVizin bridge
head.
The Russia us are still operating suc
cessfully a gain .st the Turks who lied
from Krzerum and the Ottoman forces
in the Persian battle /.one. Farther
south, in Mesopotamia, a bombardment
b\ the l.ritish of a rurkish camp on
? he left, hank of the Tigris River re
sulted in heavy casualties to the Turks.
Furthei details of the lighting be
tween the Rritish and tribesmen of
ficered by Turks in Western ligypt
show that the leader of the tribesmen,
Nuri Hey. a brother of the Turkish
War Minister; was killed and his prin
cipal subordinate wounded, and that
the tribesmen left large numbers of
dead and wounded on the field as their
main force tied.
STItl Ct.l.K ON KHOVT
OF \ HA It 1.1 100 .MILKS
(Special Cable to The Times-Pispa1
I ..O.N lx?X, February -S.?The h.vtle
c?t" Verdun, entering its ninth day. has
extended into :t fearful struggle on a
front of almost 10a miles.
The Germans, un the offensive a! all
points, are Uttinchlng attacks upon the
great fortress in a tremendous encir
eling movement, while forty miles to
the west, but as a port of the xnnm
general action, they have opened a
new drive in Champagne
i ?n both sides of the road from
Somme-I'y to Souain. over the blood
drenched tlelds where last autumn the
French made their great .smash, the
Teutons have blasted their way for
ward for a gain of l,60u jards. They
report tin- recapture of Xavarln farm,
the scone of much bitter righting.
They have taken more. than 1.000
French prisoners and nine machine
guns
Sorn-' critics believe that the sifw
attacks in t 'hum put; nc herald a tre
mendous push on the entire front of
more than 3-tO miles from the se.t to
Alsace.
About Verdun the Germans are
launching territlc attacks from the
St Mihiel salient on the south as far
as the eastern bank of the Meu.-c.
north nf the great fortress. West of
the Meiisc. extending t<> the region of
Mul.incourt, a territlc artillery duel in
i a King.
The lierrest struggle is being waged
in on ml Fort Mouaumont. rl rj?t of .th?
French o'lter ?lefenses to fall.
I'remier Uriand. In the lobby of the
French Chamber of Deputies, an
nounced on Saturday, according to de
layed dispatches, that bon.iumont is
again in the. hands of the French. He
said the lighting w?? kohik on wfth|
tremendous violence. 1
The latest French War Mlice stat^l
meats, imludmg that Issued at mid'
niglii, ignore this claim. The French
