L--"f taint lifMiti urth-a J
MMogeport
Evening
Farmer
VOL. 52 NO. 51
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., TUESDAY, FEB. 29, 1916
PRICE TWO CENTS
French Liner La., Proven
OSt 1
eo i ter raneao
Is
M
I CdDMIMUE HJ1I01U
-
Tin?
UU VUiLi U .11
MINES -ID
-
. Tl
Two Children of Trumbull Farmer Are Witnesses
For State Medical Examiner Unable to Tes
tify That Exhibits of Gunshot- Wads Are
. Same He Took From Dead Woman's Body.
.The trial of Jaon S. Haines," for the murder of his wife An
na Haines, at their homestead 'on the; Chestnut Hill road last
September, resumed in the Superior court today under Judge
James H. Webb", was filled with sensational episdoes.
When Haines, was led into the room, for the first time since
the trial began, he bore a look of anxiety about the eyes. Though
he assumed the same .position in his chair , that he maintained
throughout the ordeal, for the first time he changed it mater
ially as his son, Jason, was called to the witness -fetand to tell
of the incidents preceding and
At thla moment father and son ex
changed glances and N Haines sunk
limply into his treat, resting his face
deep Into the right hand which, was
supported by - the counsel table.
Throughout the testimony of both
sons which was ' conducted by both
sides witih the delicacy that the 'condition-
required, he hardly" gltamced
up at the boys Many well dressed
t women were noted in the spectators
gallery today and a large sprinkling
of local, 'lawyers, police officials and
others were keeply interested in the
trial..- 'i ". 'V-.- --, .,:
Deputy Sheriff ' Prank Fascinella
was placed tat charge of the prisoner
by Sheriff-Simeon Pease with instruc
tions to allow none- to. question or talk
with him except?. "by permission '.;of
counsel. ' This is ta, strong contrast
with' hia previous liberty and friends
ly talks with acquaintances in the
corridors during recess. x
Dr. Edward Fitzgerald was the first
witness for the state. He related
being called to the scene and find
ing the dead 'body of Mrs. Haines in
.-the rear yard. He described the
autopsy at which, himself. Dr. E.'.B.
"Wei don and Dr. Samuel M. Garlick
performed! at the Bridgeport morgue.
i There: were three diUnct gumahiot
wounds, one on the left -arm. one on
the left breast and one just below
the chest lime; Shots and wadding
Was found in the two latter, both
of which would have been mortal. A
fourth wound on the head was an old
one.
Dr. Fitzgerald was ' today certain
that the shot tearing away thte arm
was 'fired from behind, the second
most likely- at an oblique position
from the rear and the third was
smaller and probably fired at close
TUN
LOCAL T
; AFTER
VI,-
Asserting that SO per cent, of their
crafts throughout the city is organiz
ed, the board of business agents of the
Bridgeport Building Trades council,
backed by the thousands of members,
propose that every construction job
' isn this city after May 1 shall be done
. ' " entirely by union . men. , .
The council has sent a letter ' to
every architect, master builder and
contractor in the city, informing him
of the council's decision. A meeting
was held last Thursday at which it
was voted to take this action, and the
I letters were delivered today.
' Plumbers, carpenters, .' electrical
workers, etc., form the council. They
' "propose to stand ' by each other so
J ' that no job will be dome, even in part,
try non-union lairar.
If union plumbers, are called to
work on a Job with non-union carpenters,-
the plumbers will refuse to
work. The same will occur in the.
case of amy of the affiliated trades. The
result expected. Is that all Jobs will
Ibo thoroughly unionized.
This will mean a. standard working
day and better pay generally, accord
ing to the plans, v Most of the af
filiated trades have succeeded in get
ting agreements with the contractors
for more wages and the others ex
pect changes.
Success is expected because the city
- Is getting generally , unionized. The
letter to the contractors ana. others
follows: :
To tthe Architects, Master Build
ers and Contractors:
Dear Sirs:
The- Building Trades of Bridge
port, affiliated with the Building
Trades council of said city, beg to
inform you, that on and after
May . 1, 1916, ail construction
work of any description pertain
ing to the building industry and
Jlectlng- the crafts mentioned be
low Shall " tructed and '
wsmnm. w
mmm
MY
ARS
subsequent to the tragedy,
range point blank from the front. 'He
was under the belief today that 'but
two charges were fired though the
defense scored when it showed that
at - the coroner's hearing his testi
money showed that hie believed three
had been fired. A gruesome de
scription of the scene presented in
the house was given by the wit
mess. . ,f " ' :
' At just 11 o'clock, State's Attorney
Homer : S. Cummings called . Jason
Haines, Jr., who, attired in a. neat blue
suit, walked. briskly - to the witness
stand' and held up his hand: for the
oath. He wavered In hi glance
towards . his father and seemed par
ticularly interested in Attorney Klein
who had - just finished sharply cross
examining the preceding witness.
His story was simple in its language,
and he had to be urged by .the state's
attorney to" tell the. story which briefly
was that ho was attending Bridgeport
High school, that he usually .left for
school at 10:30 but on this morning
owing to overcrowded " conditions he
was not to leave until afternoon. . His
father was not at home when ' he
arose but when he returned to the
house at about ,10:30 from a field
where he had been cutting corn his
father was intoxicated, in a hammock
with a Sunday paper. He ordered the
boy-not to hitch up a horse that day.
Jason, Jr., had not seen Willie that
mnrnin p- i I
- Jason, Jr., started for school at
11:15, had gone about three minutes'
walk when he heard screams from
the house, followed by shots He was
not sure whether two , or three were
fired. He ran back . as fast as he
could, entering the house, by the rear
door. His father ,jstood near the
Continued on Page 2.
JJEGLJt
COUNC
completed - by members of the
crafts affiliated with said council.
The said mentioned trades affll
iated with the Building Trades
council of., Bridgeport, have, af
ter careful deliberation, decided
-that it is for the best interests of
both Masters and Journeymen
Chat none but members of said
unions work on any job. This
rule to be in full force and effect
on and after saidx date.
The undersigned board of busi
ness : agents representing the af
filiated crafts of the Building
Trades council, will be pleased to
communicate further with any
interested employer at any time
on the matters mentioned above.
Tro sting " that you will give this
matter your earnest considera
tion. We beg to remain, -' .
! Yours respectfully,
A. W. MTLJjEFL,
Secretary.
- Board of Busuiness Agents.
Carpenters, Local. No. 115, M. I.
.-' Kane. 1119 Broad street.
Carpenters, Local No. 1013, M. L.
Kane, 1119 Broad street. ,
Plumbers and Steam fitters, Local
173, William G. Steele, 1119
Broad street.
Painters and Decorators, 190, A.
J. McKean, 1119 Broad street.
Sheet Metal Workers, 114, J. W.
Weltner, 1119 Broad street. -Electrical
Workers, 488, H. E.
- Peck, 1119 Broad street.
Lathers, Wood and Wire, No. 30,
W. A. Benard, 1119 Broad
street. . -'
Slate and Tile Roofers, 6, Jasper
McLevy, 1J.19 Broad street. .
M. L.
M. L. Kane,
Chairman,
H. E. Peck, ' .
,t ; Secretary.
DEAD ENGINEER TO BLAME, DECLARES
CORONER Wk OF mm RIVER WRECK
Coroner Eli Mix of New Haven county has added to the many findings of railroad wreck
inquests in which the blame has been fixed upon the dead engineer.
In his finding in the Indian River, Milf ord, wreck, of last Tuesday, Coroner Mix officially
reports -that the catastrophe was due to the "negligence, omission and carelessness" of the
engineer of Train 5. The engineer was William R. Curtis of Stamford, who hitherto was
regarded" as an exemplary engineer. X 1
"William is dead; he cannot defend .himself," was the terse comment of the railroad
man's widow, when she was told of the disposition to attach the responsibility of the wreck
to her dead ' husbands operation of his engine. ,
Coroner Mix's finding was reached after a secret inquest. The public, even the; press,
, was barred, and what was related to the coroner was guarded with the utmost precaution.
Coroner John J. Phelan of Fairfield county will not countenance secret inquests, in cases of
, this nature.
Secret inquests are permitted by law, but the law was drawn to cover extreme cases in
which public inquests might disclose secret information in possession of police officers run
ning: down murderers. ( -, '
The . failure ..of Curtis, engineer of
extra, passenger train No. 5, to observe
the signals set against him and to
obey them, was- responsible for the
running of thai train into the rear of
the ' Connecticut- river special on the
New York, New Haven & Hartford
railroad at Mil ford,, on Feb. 22, accord
ing to the finding of Coroner Eli Mix
today. In the wreck 10 persons lost
their Mves and More than two score
were injured. .
The coroner . calls attention to the
fact that the two trains left., New Ha
ven, three minutes apart and com
mends to the attention of the , Con
necticut public utilities commission
and to the proper-officials of the rail
road company - that the subject of the
spacing and , "bunching" of trains to
take such action "as they shall deem
conducive to the safety and the lives
of the traveling- public.'' The) finding
is made on the death of Miss Suean
Hyland,' of thds dt5, who was crushed
to death in rth6 wreck. After refer
ring' to the send out f the two trains
PLAN FOR SIXTY
POLICEMEN WILL
BE PUT THROUGH
... - i
Insurgency in Favor of Cut
ting in Tax Board Not i
Strong Enough.
WILL GIVE GORDON
$15,000 UNWILLINGLY
Cut $22,000 Request by . $7, -000
as Reproof to Ex
travagance. Through force of circumstances,
the board of apportionment at its
meeting this afternoon, planned to
concede S. R. Gordon, superintendent
of charities, $15,000 of the money he
has asked for equipment of the new
Hillside home. Gordon has asked
$22,000 for this purpose, but indica
tive of the feeling over the matter, is
the plan to cut this $7,000.
The deficit of $15,000 asked by
Gordon -. will have to be - obtained
through a bond - issue, if at all, ac
cording to the reports emanating from
the board today.
Despite a healthy movement among
the administration supports to cut
down the levy of the police commis
sioners for 60 new men, it is likely
that this will be swept through at the
meeting today. Some of the members
have been favoring 25. but enough
have been lined up to make 60 a prac
tical certainty. -
By foisting everything possible upon
the people to decide by bond issue, it
is likely, it was said today. . that the
tax rate would be cut to 19.7. Gossip
around city ' hall said that 19.7 , is the
figure fixed, upon as' the goal for this
afternoon's session.
It is likely the board will conclude
its deliberations with a statement
recommending the adoption of several
items that will be included in the bond
issue requests.
In the expectation that that the
board of apportionment wpuld grant
$15,000 for furnishing the Hillside
home, the board of contract and sup
ply is preparing to ask bids, to be in
at noon, Wednesday, March 1 5. . The
specifications are not yet available.
COASTGUARDS SAVE
PASSENGERS ABOARD
PACIFIC STEAMER
Marsfield, Ore., Feb. 29 The steam
er Fifield, from San Francisco to
Bandon, today struck the rocks of the
South Jetty on Bandon Bar. Coast
guards began taking off the passengers.
.J. v J.jlXl.
ironr this city mree minuieB vlvua l.
and the breaking , or bursting of the
air hose on the express which stalled
it a. mile and a. half west of the Wood
mont station, the going back of a flag
man from, the express with torpedoes
and fusees to protect this rear of his
trair and the crashing into it of the
extra train, the finding continues.:
"As a result of ' said collision, two
passengers, the deceased being one,
who were' on train No. 79 (the -express),
together with the engineer and
fireman of train No. F (the colliding
extra), were inst. Jy killed and a for
mer , employe of said company who
was upon the engine. FouV other pas
sengers who were removed from the
wreck died subsequently from injuries
received therein; and a large number
of persons .were more or less injured.'.'
Before colliding with train No. 79,
the coroner says, the engine of train
Nfe- 6 - struck and , - killed Flagman,
George L. Hourtelotte, of train Np.-70,
who, "in the faithful and loyal" dis
charge of his duty was endeavoring to
Ams Pickets
eny Stories
of Violence
Denials of violence, tfflreats or use of
profane language to strike breakers at
the Max Ams Co. in Fairfield were
made by union officials this morning
when the. hearing on the injunction
proceedings was resumed before Judge
Gager In the superior court.
Business Agent George J. Bowen of
the union declared he . had explained,
to the pickets that they" must not use
violence to men who wanted to work
at the factory. He also cautioned the
pickets against, profane language and
warned them to keep their , hands in
their pockets' while talking because if
theyused their hands to emphasize
their remarks passersby might think
threats were being made.
- Bowen was .asked if he had called
a strikebreaker named Hefflinger vile
names. Bowen denied this. He said
he had talked with the man one day
near the Ams plant." He asked Hef
flinger if he intended , to,- return to
I work and Hefflinger said there was no
. truth in the report. "I am going down
to get a hunter's license," ,he explain
ed. . . .
Bown stated that when the union at
the Ams plant was first organized
there had been some talk of a strike
but Bowen advised the men not to act
hastily and told them to give the com
pany every opportunity to explain
matters before : any action was taken.
William Seemar, one of the defen
dants in the action rought by the
Ams Co.,.-was on the stand most of
the morning. He explained a-bout the
case of William Taylor, whose dis
charge was .one of the causes of the
strike. Taylor has since found em
ployment elsewhere and his case has
been waived by the strikers,
i ' Their demands now are 25 . cents
i more a day, arbitration on the Pah
, nish case, time and a half for over
time and double time for Sundays and
holidays. Seemar also, denied that
threats or violence were employed by
pickets.
Julius Pail, another striker, was call
ed to the stand by Attorney F. S.
Finklestone, representing the union.
Pail said he had been employed four
years by the Ams Co. before he went
on strike. Since he went to work at
the Remington Arms Co. he has been
getting $24.82 a week for 42 hours in
contract to $19 a week for 5 6 hours at
the Ams Co. Nevertheless he says he
would return to work at the Ams Co.
if the strike . were settled.
Pail said he had sometimes acted
as a picket at the Ams plant. He
said the men explained their case to
those who wanted to return to work
but denied ' any unlawful measures
were used. The hearing was resumed
this afternoon.
THE WEATHER
Connecticut: Overcast tonight and
Wednesday, not much change in tem
perature; moderate north winds. .
Lj .J..
stop train No. 5, and who at the time
he was struck was about 600 feet to
the rear of his train, apparently en
deavoring to place torpedoes upon the
track as a warning against the ap
proach of said train No. ."
The coroner finds that the railroad
has on its New York division . a sys
tem of automatic and other signals for
"safe Oflperajtion", of trains, that the
signals installed about two years ago
are regarded as efficient and as de
pendable as any yet devised, that on
the morning . of Feb. 22, the signals
were in good working order, and that
the engineer of the extra "proceeding
at a rate of speed estimated to' be
from 45 to 50 miles per hour," ..passed
a signal set at caution, at whioh he
should have slowed down, and that at
a point still further west three per
sons were observed in the, engine cab.
one in wonting- clothes occupying the
engineer's seat, one- not in working
clothes oeupying ' the fireman's seat
and a third man in working garments
" (Continued on Page 2.) '
LOCAL CONCERf
TO MONOPOLIZE
STREET LIGHTING
' 'A . '
Council Expected to Ap
prove Three Year Con
tract With Illuminat
ing Company.
FIVE HUNDRED GAS
LAMPS TO BE DARK
City Attorney Finds No Il
legality in Giving One
Firm AH Cash.
The limited Illuminating Co. will be
given a monopoly of street lighting
for Bridgeport, at the meeting of
the common council Monday event
ing. i ; ' ' s
Aflter an investigation by City At
torney W. H. Comley, Jr., the lampi
committee of the board of aldermen
has beera informed that the contract
recently proposed by Aldermarf Stagg
and other of the committee will not
'be illegal.
" A three year contract will be en
tered into with the Illuminating Co.
and it is expected , there will be no
difficulty in having it ratified Moiiiday
evening. Some opposition was stirred
up on the. administration side, but
this is expected, to be overcome.
All. the gas lamps of the city will
be abolished. " There are a. few more
than 500 suoh lamps ' in Bridgeport
and these will be torn up ami put
out of commission. -
The American. Street Lighting Co.
of Baltimore, has held the g'as, lamp
contract. In its bids submitted to
the board of contract and supply, the
Illuminating Co. named $21 as its
price per lamp. The Baltimore
concern's bid was $21.20. The board
of contract and supply recommended
to the lamps committee that the for
mer bid be accepted. It was held up,
however, until City Attorney Comley
could ascertain if it would be legal
to give such a monopoly and leave $h
city without amy other lighting
source, should . the Illuminating Co.
power fail. '
Eighty candle power electric lamps
will be installed. About 500 will be
used.
..The common council, will have to
ratify the contract before it goes in
to effect. This will be done Monday
night.
ALDERMEN TO B1XK
The annual dinner of the Bridge
port board of aldermen will be held
tomorrow evening in Otto Lehmann's
shorehouse. The administration's
acquaintances who don't get along
with it will be the piece de resistance.
Five German generals who held the
Iron Cross of the First Class have
been killed in the battle about Verdun.
Hand to Hand Encounters Follow Counter Attack
of French Upon Advancing Hosts of the Kais
er Germans Claim to Have Taken More Than j
16 Thousand Prisoners, Unwounded, andi
Scores of Ponderous Pieces of Artillery.
Berlin, J?eb. 29. Progress for the Germans in their drivv
towards Verdun in the Woevre district was announced b- the
war office today. The German troops haye passed the Dieppe
Abacourt and Blanze, and also have taken Manhhuelles and
Champion.
The war office also announced that a small armored work
northwest of Douamont had been stormed by the Germans.
-. The official announcement gives the total number of un- ,
wounded prisoners taken as 16,575. There have, been captured '
also 78 cannon and 86 machine guns. v
The, text of today's official statement
on military operations is as follows :
"Western theatre of war: Very
strong artillery activity has occurred
at several points. ,
East of the Meuse we stormed a
small armored work directly north
west of the village of Douanmon t. Re
peated enemy attacks in this region
was stopped at the very outset.
"In the - Woevre, our troops have
passed Dieppe, Abaucourt and Blan-
ee. They have cleared the . extensive
wooded region northeast of Watron
ville and Hamdiomont and have taken
PARIS ADMITS GERMAN ADVANCE;
TELLS OF HAND TO HAND CLASHED
Paris, Feb. 29, 2:35 p. m. The bombardment to the north of
Verdun is continuing with greater intensity. East of the Meuse
last night there was a resumption of violent local attacks. Near
the village of Douamont the fighting, came to , a hand-to-hand
encounter and the Germans were repulsed by French troops.
After inteilse artillery fire,
lage
e of Manhuelles,' but a counter-attack brought the French to
the' western boundary ' of this location They now hold Man
huelles under their fire. .
In Lorraine the Germans succeeded in occupying small sec- i
tionof French trenches, but they were very shortly driven out
fromthese positions.
The text of the official communica
tion on the progress of hostilities,' giv
en out by the French war office this
afternoon is as follows:
To the north of Verdun the bom
bardment has continued with , in
creased intensity. .
"In the sector to thie east of the
Meuse last, night there was a -resumption
of the previous violent local at
tacks, particularly in the vicinity of
the -village of Douaumont, where the
fighting came to hand and hand - en
counters - resulting in the driving
back of the enemy by our troops.
"In the Woevre district the Ger
mans were s successful, . after an in
tense .- preparatory artillery fire, in
gaining possession! df - the village, of
Manheulles. An immediate counter
attack on our part brought us back
to the western boundary of this vil
lage, which we now hold under our
fire. ' i
"In Lorain e, the enemy was success
ful in penetrating several small sec
tions of our advance trenches, but
they were almost immediately driven
out of these positions,
v "There is" nothing to report from
the remainder of thefromt."
Military critics here express the
opinion that the German forces, which
at the beginning of the battle around
Verdun numbered probably half a mil
lion, now exceed 750,000.
''The situation is now decidedly bet
ter," is the phrase commonly used thi3
morning in the pn?sa regarding the
struggle for the great French strong
hold. "The French are beginning to
react vigorously against the Germans'
bludgeon strokes, which are having
less and less effect and are being de
livered with diminished energy. It is
expected, however, that they will be
renewed again today, but at new
points. 'The fact that the battle is now
shifting is taken as a sign that the Ger.i
man general staff has begun to despair I
;Jj ( i 2 ' ' lT fH Is ljfca fy, ' ;V':' ism ll lla J ll '
fajfli H U laa j Ja ' .3 il,; J
Paris, Feb. 29. via London, 2:25 p. m The auxiliary"
French cruiser la Provence was sunk in the Mediterranean last
Saturday, it was announced officially today. At Malta 296 sur- .
vivors have been landed. . '
The Ministry-of Marine estimates the number of survivors.'
at 870. .
Four hundred survivors were landed at Milo. La Provence
sank in the middle of the Mediterranean.
La Provence was one of the largest and finest of the French
line vessels. Her gross tonnage was 13,753. "She. was built at
St. Nazaire in 1906, was 602 feet long, 65 feet beam, and 38 feet
deep. She was requisitioned by the French government for.
naval service at the outbreak of the war.- - j
in their heroic, advance Manheullea
and also Champion.
"Up till last night we counted un
wounded prisoners 228 officers and
16,575 men and captured 48 cannon,
seven of these heavy and of the most
modern kind, and 86 machine guns,
while uncounted war material is re
ported as 'booty.
"At the forester's house at Thiaville,
northeast. of BabonyiUe, the projection
of a French, position was attacked and
taken. A liarge number of prisoners
remained, in 'our hands.
"Eastern and Balkan theatres of
war: The situation is unchanged."
Gerjsan forces captured the vil-
of making a real impression on tha
French defense.
"I fought since th beginning of tho -war,"
says a soldier who has returned
to Baris 'and.-. who was present at the
fighting at Ornes. "I saw the sham
bles . at Suippes t and Souain. They
were nothing to what I saw last week. .
The 'enemy advanced and we retired I
under orders but we killed them by j
the lozens. , It was so terrible that I, j
who have watched my comrades fall
around me almost with", indifference, 1
shudder as my Jnemory. recalls those
scenes.
"As their battalions advanced upon
us they were in serried masses, by files
of 20. The shrapnel from our 75 mil
imetre guns and the projectiles from
our heavy artillery fell among them
and you could see the great gaps as If.
a mower had passed with a scythe. 1
Then high explosive shells which burst
on contact fell and limbs shot into the
air. We were so close that pieces of
their torn flesh fell among us. Event-,
ually, we reached Moncourt and took
shelter for a time in a wood. 'Al
though it was 3 o'clock in the morn
ing the bursting shells made it as clear
as davT giving the battlefield th aspect
of a fairy scene. '
"From befiind us the French artil-j
lery fired into the German masses, the
r-or-mfn shells flying over our heads
toward the Douaumont section. Then .
our machine guns, placed in batteries"
every five yards, began to play and we .;
saw the dead in groups upright, where
tiipre was not room to fall. From,
Moncourt I followed the supply road to ;
-rin(,rv, where I took the light railway
toward Verdun. VThe eavy guns near ;
Douaumont and Damloup were firing ;
as fast as they could be loaded. When!
we passed between the two points the
air pressure, produced by the continu- ;
ous ' discharges, was so terrific that
blood rushed from our ears and ourl
lungs almost ceasea -wonting.
t
