MARKETS
NEW YORK CITY
Average price of cop
per for week ending
Feb. 2327 Cents.
VNOZIUV 'XIN30Hdj
ARIZONA Generally
fair. iHEMBEH A6&OC1ATEO PRE88
VOL. 18, NO. 236.
BISBEE, ARIZONA, TUESDAY MORNING, FEBRUARY 29, 1916.
PRICE FIVE CENTS.
BATTLE TIDE
AT VERDUN !
HOT YET
TURNED'
POLICE OF COUNTRY ARE LOOKING FOR
LA TRASSE, KANSAS' MOST NOTED OUTLAW
Fort Douaamont Fallen to the
Germans in Ruins; German
and French Accounts of the
Fierce Struggle Vary.
PRISONERS DESCRIBE
FRIGHTFUL MASSACRE
Gentians Gain One Mile in
Champaign, Russians Claim
Victories Over Austrians
and Turks.
LONDON', Feb. 28. The tide of bat
tle around Verdun apparently' has not
turned to either side. While the Ger
mans claim further advances, the
French are equally emphatic that they
have checked the attacks of the mass
es of German infantry sent against
them. Fort Douaumont. which has
fallen to the Germans, is reported' in
ruins. Around this position desperate
fighting has progressed since Friday.
Here French counter attacks were de-
livered with such crushing force that
the German detachments were driven
back, one regiment being almost en
circled. Throughout the entire sec
tion of Verdun, except the wetsera
bank of the Meuse. where the Ger
man bombardment has slackened
somewhat, artillery duels still are of
vast proportions.
In the Woevre district the French
put down two German attacks but the
Germans began an important move
ment in the Champaigne district,
where they succeeded in entering the
French advance positions of a sup
porting trench extended over nearly
a mile and capturing more than 1,000.
Notwithstanding that fresh reserves
of French were thrown Into the af
fray" at Douaumont, the German War
Office declares their efforts have been
fruitless and that the Germans have
advanced their lines toward Bras and
Vacherauville. It also is claimed that
the Germans expelled the French
from the Meuse peninsula.
On the Russian fornt, around Fried
richstadt and llloukst, there has been
heavy tiring. In Galicia the Russians
repulsed an attack by Austrians on
the trenches along the Stripa river,
while the Austrians, acocrding to
Vienna, put down with sanguinary
losses the Italian attack on positions
on both sides of Monte 'San Michele,
east of Azza. The Russians still are
operating successfully against the
Turks who fled from Erzerum, also in
the Persian zone. An' Italian hospital
ship is believed to have struck a
mine off the roast of Albania and
sunk. The extent of casualties is un
known but reported numerous.
"Frightful massacre," is how Ger
man prisoners. describe the battle of
Verdun. Troeps were slaughtered by
French artillery, machine gun and
rifle fire. The impetus of the assault
wa snot diminished thereby during
the first four days, because fresh
troops were thrown Into the battle
uncep.singly.
"Advance, no matter what the loss
th may be," was the order given Ger
man trooos before the attack. The
most critical moment occurred when
a footing was gained at Fort Douau
mont. The last hesitation by the de
fenders would have been disastrous.
The Germans erdoubled their efforts
to take advantage of any confusion J.
but the French immediately began a
counter defensive. The French artil-
FELIX DiAZ
: STARTING
! TROUBLE
LORIMER, ONCE A SENATOR, FIGHTS
FOR FREEDOM IN A CHICAGO COUR1
Noted Mexican Leader Report-;
! ed to be on His Way to Mex- j
I ico Where ; He Expects to!
Attack Carranza. j
:DE FACTO OFFICIALS ;
1 DENY ALL REPORTS
! I
i William La Trasse.
' William La Trasse1 has been conceded generally to be Kansas' most
noted outlaw. About thirty-two years old, for fifteen years his name has.
oeen connected with the annals of Kansas crime. About November 15 last
3e escaped from the Kansas state penitentiary, since which time the police
of the country have been searching for him. He is believed to have taken
cart in a spectacular daylight robbery in Chicago last month.
I
"
RAILROADS TO DECIDE.
PHOENIX. Feb. 29. Not un
til after attorneys for the Sou
thern Pacific, Santa Fe and El
Paso and Southwestern rail
road companies get together in
Phoenix tomorrow will it be
known whether the railroads
are to accept shipments of li
quor into Arizona. '
The attorneys for the three '
big companies are ' together
here primarily because of the
three-cent fare hearing, which
Is to begin before the corpora
tion commission March 1. The
fare matter Is now overshadow
ed In public Interest by the In
terpretation they place upon
the personal use decision of the
supreme court.
.'There is no question that any
person has the right to bring li
quor over the state line in per
son, provided that he does not
. intend to dispose of it In viola
tion of the prohibition law.
The railroad and express com
pany attorneys, however, are
undecided whether liquor ship
ments can be handled by the
common carriers.
1GREAT NOVELIST
T
S
:
'
JAMES
DEAD
'Band of Mexicans, Said to Be
, Headed by Jose Acosta, Re-;
i ported to Have Crossed the :
j Border Near Agua Prieta. '
i -
' WASHINGTON. Feb. 2. Ktrlix
' went of Justice agents to prevent i
I 1
ji activities in violation of American'
neutrality. He apparently K ft !':e'
United States for Mexico with the jii-j
, tenlion of launching a resolution!
'against Carranza. The information j
; indicates that he hopes to organize j
. and lead troops in his native stale of:
1 Oaxaca and such others as he can
. i- : ... ... . : , t . t . i..
, .ailirr JU buuiiiriL. jfl-.lL:u. lit- l in i
' Havana, where probably no
mm &mCfce Jt
' sf-f -'i' J'xtl' Tjrfy
TO MAINTAIN
AGREEMENT
II FORMER
NOTES
Von Bernstorff Presents Corn
munication in Which Ger
many Declares No Viola
tion of Recent Agreement,
i MIDNIGHT TONIGHT
IS LLMIT OF THREAT.
State Department Does Not
Expect Diflculties to Arise
Over Question at Once,
Bernhard Heard From.
AVilNam Lorimer, be4cHd in court.
William Lorimtr, once a senator of the United States and president of
1 ia biir Chicago hank, is on trial in Chirutrn pharmtl with Unl
action y p. - miK-nmniu.
I His partner. 'Charles B. Mundav. is under sentence of five vears on the
j will b taken by the Tutted State? as! stLine charge.
I he sailed froiu New York as a privju-S
. citizen.
Oaxaca is the only
1VT-.!. A i 0.. M- ' w"
iiauye American dui taiur-; aloof fronl tne nKhtiug of the last
alized Englishman Dies at! two years. Led by state officials, the
age of 73. Career of Man i declared their independence of
D r A C " 1 tuciioiis. i arranzH ami outer ie;u-:
was Kemarkapie une. j ers were lold bv tne 8(ate thev wojU ;
bo ;lad to resume their place in ;li-1
union whenever it was demonstrated
a stable government could be restor- i
ed.
' With the Oaxaca forces as a base
it is estimated ; Diaz could . muster
25,000 men, but.' poorly equipped and
without artillery. There is doubt of
LARGE N V
LONDON, Feb. 2S. Henry James,
the novelist, died here today at the
ase of 73.
Henry James was born an American
but died a I'.ritish subject. In July,
1915, he took the oath of allegiance to
the Crown, explaining that he had liv
ed and worked in England for forty
years and had developed such an at
tachment for the country and sympa
thy with its people that he desired to i
tnrow nis moral weisni ana personal . CROSS NEAR DOUGLAS j
allegiance into the British wise in; DOUGLAS. Feb. 28. Mexican se-i
.the European war. cret men reported to the de facto gov-'
'j I tie disttnguisnea novelist, critic ernn,ent olticials at Agua Trieta that
;and playwright was born in New York : fifteen armed and mounted Mexicans
j April 15. lS3t. His father. Heury crossed the border into Mexico, neat
.1
MONKS SNOWBOUND. f U LL l l U l L l l 0 ij TSLSZ '
NAMED BY THE
.Diaz' ability to establish himself as
, a popular leader and obtain Biiflicient i y
funds.
r.KVKVA. Keb 2S. Monks
and travellers are imprisoned at j
Saint Bernard by twelve feet i
of snow. The famous dogs are j
not able to make their way.
Huge avalanches have cut all
rnmnmnir-flMnn.i It has been
snowing steadily eight das. It i
will be isolated a month. There '
is plenty of food at the nion-
aslrv.
AT ONCE SAYS
1
This Year's Program of Con
struction Should be Limited
Only by Facilities Officer
, Tells Committee.
LRU II L I
CHARGES ARE
I unrn
unr
! niMLU
filed today.
Which Indicted
James, br., was noted a writer on here last night. It is not known
.ethics and religion; and his younger whether the! Taction is a forerunner
j brother, William, was later to become ; of a general revolutionary movement
distinguished as a psychologist. The ; or whether the Mexicans were band-j
family was possessed of an ample for-j its.
tune, the foundation of which was laid J Soldiers from Agua Prieta and
by the novelist's grandfather, of ' Fronteras weer sent to hunt and ex-1 , ,
Scotch-Irish descent, who migrated ; terminate the men. Trains on the!-rn" Jury
from Ulster soon after the revolution-1 Nacozari railroad are under extra
ary war and became a successful mer-' guard.
chant at Albany, N. Y. j i
The education of the future novelist . ACOSTA REPORTED INVOLVED,
was altogether out of the ordinary. DOUGLAS. Feb. 28. Colonel Jose
One of its early features Included a i Acosta. said to have been formerly
.. ' : . ...i .i.i. vi rnm,.nitinv for
win or .11 o riiiou ' , ' . iTI. tt.Vuf i-1l..h mov rtpive
. it- i i . . ' , . . . . i - j . i. ' , y ' - '
a y;ueiiiur ui isuuura, iieuueii agaiusi i.oiif;reiiiiun iiaiiaii. uiun ; q.fi .
WASHINGTON. Feb. 2S. Germany
'in a note presented by von IJernstorlt
J to Lansing, formally reiterated the as
isurances regarding the future conduct
! of sub-varines. given in the Lusitania
; cp-e. and declares such a-suram e- ars
' not molified by the memorandum of
j intention to treat armed merrnant
imen of the Entente alliex as auxiliary
jcrulsers after midnight of tomorrow.
Germany attempts to justify th0
issuance of the memorandum by pre
evidence and assertions ce
bat the Briiisb have
merchantnient to use
for purposes of at-
! tm In violation of assurances givenl
! the United States.
A'l t bines considered, the State De
Ipann-'ent is understood to feel lh
possil-ilitv is more or less remote of
j dln'iculMe arising in th near future
j result or the German-Austrian pol?
Cnrsre rive the armed ships que
.'tlon little attention. RepreientaliT4
Cooper of Wisconsin, issued a state
ent saving he thonght the foreign af
fair committee was entitled to the
correspondence between the United
' 'States and bolliircrent nations, regard-
ISisbee Democrats, comprising in the. j jnr of bpi:.rpnt!, and neu-
,n'ost part the city central committee, . trals.
!of the party, met last night and re-j "More thpn snythine else, secret
vieed the situation facing them at .diplomacy caused the Europe war.
! . , . . , . . . nid Coctier. "We want no secret dip-
the somiug election. A completed tic- i. th
lon'nrv In this country to plunge ma
(ket. with all of the aldermanic berths rnilp)1 s,Rfp(1 in0 ,ar, or into a posl
; filled Is now a fact. The nomination tinn which might make war practically
petitions are now filled and will be inrvitt!r ."
I Fro- KntTte diplomatic sources
ram infnrtnntinn that what is desrrib-
J nere was niur-ii entnusiasm ai
Aldermanic Positions Are All
Filled. Adams' Name Only
One Mentioned For Mayor
Allison Not Opposed.
th
, eH i "Itatv's" rcplv to the suggestion
ni.Htine. The De:nocrats declare that i-iru.i taroa nmiliis vivendi
Congressman tSuChanan and ,njs sprng will be a repetition of that : of providing for a disarmament of mer
Others Testifies Before Con
gressional Investigation.
NEW
of 1914. when the Democratic slate, as
j a whole, rode into office by comforta-
i. n-v ,,: t We mniori'ies. .The leaders say the
pit K,. Feb.. ,28.1 he ifrth
: inr uiMUhe' luuiviuiriii. uiru . ; . ' .
way, where colloquial French was sup Pr Villa
addition, is afqWows,:
MAYOR I. C. E. Adnms.
posed to be acquired in perfection, and hand of Mexicans which ( arranza merubers of Labor's National . Tea-e
of which the pupils were largely Cu- ret service men reported to nave!
bans and Mexicans. At other private, : crossed into bonora last night, accord-; .Wof of w,j, gtre.r after the CITY.CI.ERK
schools, the young Henry James and , "S 'o reports recdveu nere. , containing the names had been In W"h.
his brother specialized in various stu- l
chant ships in the interests of human
j ity. in reality was a report of Italy a
1 novition as outlined to Ambassador
, Pace at Rome by the Italian Foreign
i Office, iind forwarded to the Stale De
; nsr'nient. It Is in the form of an ex
! nlanption of the res-on for arming;
--hips with especial ref"-"--"
'the Apr-ona sinking. Frlor to Nov. t
WASHINGTON, Feb. 29. New con
struction in the navy should be lim- dies of their early youth, and when the
Ited, this year, only by the country's
facilities to build. Rear Admiral
Knight, president of the Navy War
College told the House Naval Com
mittee. He declared that an ade
quate fleet is to be ready by 1925. An
immediate inquiry should be made to
'determine the extent of facilities, and
to plan even greater-programs each
year until the navy is the strong
est afloat.
The admiral said it was a big pro
gram, but that we have a big coun
try to defend. Only the limited na
ture of construction facilities, he said.
MiiiKed the General Ttnard to fix 1925
lerv advened at double otilcV to the. d . f,ppt , ,d ,,e ,
trumpet can sin leaped noon tnp nrst
In nnv nflnnt
nnk of he Germans with irresistible I ..lr .. ij i. i1A aA.tpA i
hut.nv we need it nnw tndar. tomorrow."
fury. The clash was murderous
the thinned French ranks would not
be denied but went on to the second
Gprmsn wtnr. while reinforcements
hurried to their support. The battle
waipd bacV and forward for hours,
artillery adding to the slaughter. The
The witness said, in reaching the
decision, the board held before it the
spectre of a double assault against the
United States on the Atlantic and Pa
cific simultaneously. He said, the
fleet should be able to meet any such
CARRANZA OFFICIALS DENY.
familv went to Europe their schooling! ' "mciais
was continued under nomadic condi-of the I'Prtnient of the Interior de
tion. in s!. Prenrh dnv s. h,1 ni"d a report from Washington that
I
and with English privatp tutors. One j
voar nUn wit diviIprl hptwppn ihp ITni- '
versity of Geneva and the University ! dilion8 were daiIy , 8lu,winK, '"'Pe
of Bonn, after which James returned ' a,ld, "rreni1" f fo lowers of
v.- v,i, .j i. iKo..K,i.h.'" ""d ZaPa,a werp increasing.
Harvard La wSchool, although there
is no indication that law was, with
hiin, ever a serious purpose. It was,
in fact, early in his studies at Har
vard that he began to contribute
sketches to the magazines and began .
a literary career that produced closet
to a hundred novels and tales, togeth-
Felix Diaz had entered Mexico to
start a revolution. Thed declared con-
' Diaz would not prove a serious men
I ace as Diaz had lost much prestige
I in his former attempt at an uprising.
;
CHICAGO POLITICS HUM.
CHICAGO, Feb. 28. What is
handed to the federal officers by the, cm. WKMIIMz-juhim Vinson.
assistant United States attorney, j .SUPERINTENDENT OF STREETS
were given before the congressional ACailey. A. F.. Shepherd. Nels
committee investigating the' impeach- jOWerstroni.
ment chasre against United States! ALDERMEN Ward l:Dan Walsh.
District Attorney Marshall. '
The impeachment of Marshall for
Improper conduct was demanded by
nuchanan Just prior to his Indictment.
All members of the grand jury were
subpoenaed to appear before the com
mittee.
Bert Tomlinson. no i,aiian hip was armed It is as-
;sered w'th emphai sthat Italy's for
' rral wiswr to the American memo,
'rsndum will be in accord with tbat of
' Great Britain. France. Russia and Japan.
"DESTROY ALL SHIPS"
BERLIN. Feb. 2S. George Bernhard!
In a leadins arMcle in Uie ossiscnq
John Tworiiey. Ward 2: R. A. David
son. Jacob Earicksop. Ward 3: Sam
E. Cowan. John Con ley. '
From the above it can be seen that J pjtung. calls for destruction of all
the competition will arise among 'he'jps bound for England, armed or un
candidates for the offices of city clerk ' rn..-d. He points out the seizure by
and superintendent 'of streets. Good . pcrtugxl of German ships and says
i .
Joel Barber, an anarchist, offered iP'en are after each nomination and '.ne; probaMv they will be use.t by Portugal
testimony concerning the blanket in-j race will hp bard fought and very in-1 to carry foodstuffs to England. Ha
dictment. He insisted sufficient evi-1 terstine throughout. : fesrs manv German ships now lyin
For Mayor. I. C. E. Adams, after : in South American harbors eventually
tnc persuasion permitted his name . h employed on the same purpose.
each case. The indicted man is ac-tto he put on nomination blanks. Ad
dence had been procured before tUe
I I I . - t : I An inJtotmni in
Hp. I giailU JUrj IU JUOLHJ U IMUII.IUHUI ,u
scrilied ak one of the bitterest and
er with critical essays and some play i,. I1,,.,llrf,aillll, rlninnil,n. ,, PVPP! cused of conspiring to
I marked an aldermanic primary elec "trikes in American munitions facto-; m B-be. and his friends declare the
work was never as pop- tj , Chicago closed tonight The rie in lne int?rst of Germany. i Rniihli an candidate will be. outdis-
&-fit..wa Inmnrrnv will plpft an nlflpr. ! ' ' ' llanced.
instlfiate j m hs a verv considerable following
writing.
Mr. James'
uiar in America as it was in cngiana. vot,.r8 tomorrow will elect an alder
but he had many admirers in his na- Illa in eaiU of the ,.tv.g thirty.five'
tive country and even his critics rank- r,ia ....t n,,p nmni.-tnui ..nnrt imli-P !
Interest centers on the fiaht between snarP n0' Proiesi to i "nun.. ,,0n ln the primaries
GERMANY PROTESTS
BERLIN, Feb. 28. Germany address
Jsmes Al'ison
c-tic rand'date.
ed him as one of the most masterful 1
Is the other 1 Demo
who has no opposi-
Allison is cred-
Cermans claim gains while the ! "combinations, not Including England.
Frepfh dery. The rhpok of the Ger-j ?fe thought it unlikely that a com liina
mans is refardort In Frence as one of "tion against the I'nited States Includ
the greatest achievements of the war. in g England could be formed. When
i sked If he had reasons to believe
LORIMER TESTIMONY SOON. there was danger of another comblna
. i Hon Admiral Knight answered yes.
CHICAGO. Feb. 28 The hearing ofe w8 not pressed to amplify the
testimony in the trial of William Lor-, Statement.
imer. ehsred with'consniracv in con
nection with the allered wrerHne of
the La Salle Street Trust and Savings
Bank, may beein Wednesday. There
are twelve venirmen In the jnrv bo
tentatively pned 1T hoth ide at
adjournment of court today.
writers of the pat generation. His ; Major Thompson and nine Republican , a!aisl seizure of German merch-.(.PH with nn exceedingly clean and i
writings were of the analytical and aldermen who onnc'ised his noli; li s and ! anl vessels. The measure is charac-. efficient ad"inistrat'on. His policies I
1 metaphysical school of novelists and ' are uow st.tking reiiomination. Two 'erized as a violation of Germany's of police administration have been;
', the full understanding of his work was niH wprp shot durine the ramnaicn. ! treaty rights. The hope is expressed thoe of stern, good ludienient tern- j
If it does not accomplish that ob
lect he says a "death blow will ba
dealt England only if we direct a re
quest to all neutral states to be kind
enough to keep out of English coastat
waters for a specified time, since oth
erwisp we cannot assume responsibill
ty for their ship losses." .
LIEUT. GOVERNOR DIES
a matter of endless controversy. To
understand Henry James, was, in the
popular view, the gift of only a pri
vileged few.
The fact that Mr. James was always
independent of the need of catering to.
what the public wanted, since his for-j
tune was sufficient, enabled him to ad- i
There have been numerous tights and
three slender suits.
'hat Portugal will rescind its action.
DYESTUFFS MAY BE SHIPPED.
I
WASHINGTON. Feb. 28. Englund
will permit the shipment of cargoes
of dyestuffs valued at $5,000,000 from
BRITISH STEAMER SUNK
I5NDON. Feb. 28. According to
Lloyd's the British steamer Bouthford
has been sunk. Eleven of the crew
wete saved. Two were killed.
hero religiously to his own principles 1 Rotterdam to the United States.' am
of romance regardless of how popular i bassador Page advised the Slate De.
the ymight be. Notwithstanding this . partment.
MINISTERS POISONED
indifference be had. particularly a-
0(bcial3 are hopeful Germany will!
mong th. English people, a hist of an exception to its embargo granting
(Continued on Page 4) permission lor the eportation.
pered with much consideration of the
nettv offender. The 'administration's
pn4'iallr Influencing policy has been
ithst of not running the city court for
SAN FRANCISCO. Feb. 2S Mor revenue,
than forty guests, all Methodist minis-j jt Wj bp noticed that the alderman
ters and their wives, were rendered r tirtet. as vet. contains no present
seriously ill after having partaken of incmo, ' , the earnest desire
food alleged to have been poisoned. r txtv riemorrsts. In Ward 1. that
served a a banquet to a Methodist Charles Cunningham b a candidate,
n inister here on February 22. ThwThe latter refused, however, to be con
flrsl official report of the affair iderd and the other members of tb
made at the Methodist Ministers As- rvjncil. apparently, feel about
sociatinn today. same manner.
I. OS ANGELES. Feb. 2S The body
of Lieut. Governor Eshleman of Cali
fornia, who died at Indio. is expected
to arrive here tomorrow. No decision
w.s reached hv his family whether
the funeral will be here or in Sacra
pipnto. Eshleman was alone at th
time of his death. He arrived Sunday
an went to the Southern Pacific Club.
whre only the clerk knew him. Ouesta
ere aroured in the early morning
hv Fshlenian' call fer help. They huf
ried to his room and found him bleed-
n the lg profusely from a nemerrnaje 01
the lungs. He died soon after.
