AHBUQUERQUE MORNING JOURNAL.
CITY
CITY
EDITION
EDITION
'iiimTV-Ki:YJ:NTH ykak.
vol. txux. No. CO.
ALBUQUERQUE, NEW MEXlCOJUESUAY, FEBRUARY 29, 1916,
Mil
L KNIGHT
URGES. FASTEST
CONSTRUCTION
OF BIGGER 111
Daily by farrier or Mull, Cuq
Month. Single Copint, ftfl
THE WEATHER
vi:.vnii.n forecast.
Denver, Feb. 28. New Mexico:
Tuesday untl Wednesday ui tly cloudy,
not much changi- in umpcruturr.
at
URAL WI'.ATIIKU lUJ'OItr.
For twenty-four .hours, ending
0 p. m. yesterday.
Maximum temperature, 5X degree;
minimum, 34 decrees; range, 24 de
grees; temperature at 6 p. m., 3!) de
gret",; (southwest wind; partly cloudy.
Facilities Alone' Should Limit
Building of War Vessels;
Danger to Nation Close at
Hand,
ATTACKS AT SAME
TIME ON BOTH COASTS
Does Not Believe Great Brit
ain Likely to Assail United,
True,
coasts," he mild, "would prevent a
powerful and determined enemy from
pushing' home ills attack. ''
"Do you see any reason," Itcpre
sentattve liutler demanded, "why we
should hasten construction of the
fleet this year which you did not
see two years ago?"
"Yes," itiikwered the admiral.
Xo Immediate Disarmament.
Representative Hcnslry asked if
the witness did not believe that grcm
opportunity for International (lis.
armament or limitation of armamen's
would not eomo nt the close of the
Kuropean war. Admiral Knight said
ho did not, although he hoped for
such a movement and would gladly
go as an American delegate to a dis
armament congress. He recited events
ot the past, however, to show that
until the Spanish war had set the
i country firmly in its place. a.s a naval
States, but Such Might Be
council. If it went Into any coming
conference, backed by a strong- fleet,
.perhaps by tin? strongest in the
world, he said, the nation's voic
would speak with great force in urg-i
. , lug- the abandonment of the race for
O' i ..ii t, r.11,1 n i'r in uii nnU'i.i
FELIX DIAZ TO
NAU9URATE IN
REVOLT AGAINST
,Y MOKNIN JOUML (MOAt. LUIII WIM)
Washington. Feb. 2S. New con
structlon for the navy should
GEN. CARRANZA
Lee Christmas, Noted Adven
turer and Revolution-maker,
Accompanies Leader From
New York.
OAXACA SITUATION IS
TO BE FULLY UTILIZED
UNO
JOE Al
E
RAILROADS LOSE
1
BITTER FIGHT ON
P05T0FFICE OIL
L
TO PLACE BLI
E
ON BRITAIN FOR
Space Basis Is Substituted for
Present Weight System of
Paying for Carrying Uncle
Sam's Mail,
COMPLICATIONS
50-POUND LIMIT ON
PARCELS POST RETAINED
Note Presented to Lansing De
clares Assurances Given in
Lusitania Case Have Not
Been Modified,
AMERICAN POSITION
IS AGAIN MADE CLEAR
155 Lives Lost
When British
Ship Hits Mine
IftV MOaUlNJ JOilMNAL arRCIAl. If AI0 WIM
London, Feb. :s (11:37 ,p. ,m.)
The owners of the Peninsular unci
Oriental line steamer Malnja, which
struck a mine and sank off lover
Sunday, announced tonight that the
total ntimbctvof persons saved In the
disaster was 301. of these seventy
two were passengers, ninety-two mem
bers of the Kuropean crew and 131
of the I.aacur crew. The mlssliift"
emprise forty-nine passengers, twen
ty members of the Kuropean new und
ilKhty-sU Lascars.
Nephew of Former President' New Measure, in Harmony! Distinctions Drawn Between
and Dictator of Mexico;
Hopes to Secure Control of
Republic Again,
With Recommendation ofj
Postmasters General of!
Many Administrations, I
Ships Armed for Defensive
Purposes and Those Cany-
Guns for Offense,
supremacy in sea
j 1, MOXIIH1 JOUIIII.L iriCIU LIIIU IH i, MOMlHI JOUIKA1. IHCKL IIKIO !!
I Wash inn ton. Feb. 2X. Felix Dm,! Washington, Tel,. 2S. liver hitter
, who has been watched for ' several and persistent opposition the house
j months bv department of Justice tonight passed the annual po.Uoffiee
i agents because of suspected activi- .appropriation bill with its provisions
V MOftNINO. JOUHHM- IflCAl ItAMO fiNt
Washington, Feb. IN. Germany, in
it Col-nutl note itfewen I cd Itv Count Von
limited this year only by the coin- , ", ,,, , I'nnnlhs by department of justice ionium passeu inn annual pouoiiiee : iternstoiff to Secretary Lansing to-t arm ner incrciiam snips. especial
try's facilities to build, Kear-Admiral .Umt ... i lit-iitH because of suspectcu acnvi- ,,rpi union urn nun us provisions day, reiterated assurances regarding reierenec nciug maue t, musing
Austin M Knight president of the ' ntitfiiniit tomorrow. jn v0.,tioii of American neutral- for substituting a space basis for the,,!,,, future conduct of submarine war I of the Ancona Prior to winch no Itul-
nivv war college-' told the house I ' I ity, npparentlv has left the lulled present weight system ot paying rnll-l Kveu in the l.usllaula ease; do-Man ship hud been armed.
i . i.... it ,. Q,ir. :fl n I IC7T UVMM 10 . ;itr.u r,- M..virn with the intention ronds for cariyluK mails and prohlh-: ..rues those assurances have not been : Italy in Mm".
.,i-iip fleet is to be'in'ade ready bv . ' of launching a new revolution ngnin.it 'me nny increase in the existing limit modified by the memorandum setting; It was asserted will: emphasis thiil I
195 1 declared an Immediate in-i SENT TO GERMANY"- Currant ,le facto gnvcrnmon'. ,T filly pounds ... parcels post pack- r,H.,h s mtonllon to treat armed ! Italy's formal answer to the A.nrr -
. ,,r' 1 1 m l to de ermin.M ULMIVinm I , f ,, reaching officials here "K". The measuro carries approprla-! merchanlmcn of the entente allies ax; an memorandum would be in accord-1
C,.xt 'nt of h,w fldliUef " , iind l- ornlw oim KKmUw IJ-I.UCO.OI.O to op.iauMlia.y cruisers after midnight to-;anee with that of Ureal lirl.aln,
hn for evL Kater u IdinK pro' " L '"?"M o ml lead the troops of his native "ate the posta. .-vstcm durluK tho, morrow; and attempts to Justify th, , France. Itussla and Japan. ;
plan lor ein KIlr ou.iuiok t ,o X(,w yo.k 2X,..A manuscript , ' . ., . f ,. , coming year. (Issuance of the memorandum by pre-1 ConKre.-s ifave tiie armed ship , pies-
r.. 1 St V ' i , mZo ZVll The n,t a.,istfth. v. , ,,.1,, ,.vh.ene ...,.,, de-Mi,,,, ll,. attention today. About the;
unpiiousnea muuary iiymu eompnseu, plan, Ion;; advocated by tilt; : poslofflco slKlied lo prove inai me uriusn K-;,,uiy deeiopmeni ui in,' enpnin wasj,,,.,,,.
. , . i , rn- J-11 m """if 1,1 '' loKcincr;- uuiia ! department and Vitfoiouslv op,s,.,l bv . 'rmnciH lias Insli licle,l mercnununeu ; ,(. issuance or a statement oy itep-
It Is a 1,1k proKram. of i"". with a sueKestion that the mu-ie be, r, N'..w Orleans Fri- the railroads, whs led by Itcpresenta- to us,, their armament for purposes I r-sentntive fooper, of Wlscoesln, (
said Admiral Knisht, but we hne i st ,0 uoris .uul sunK in tl, (;(.rmaii; ,'1"-1' 1 u' ' ,'!', v,..vt. tiv,. Camion of Illinois His proposal "f atta-U in violation of assurances; rankinit mliiorily member of the for-
bltf country to defend.' trenches, has been forwarded to tlie!lla.v lor Havana, wmii wwi . matter of rale adjustment be'Hlven to the Fnited States. (elsii affairs (ommlltee, siiylnu he)
Xvd the Navy Xoiv. Ccrman Bovcrnment 1 y Ambnssador 1 dn!t w ' 1 ,,f ,..,. left to tho Interstate fommetce com-, '''l,,r H was said at the state tie-! thoimht the committee was enlltlcd
Ib rnstorff, !iccordin to a letter, 11 "' '" ' ,.,wu..u(,i,-i mission was defeated 7 9 to'f,4 ! parlmeui thai while Hie t nltetl Males; i lnve the coi'resiondence netween
siooii uaiicraoiy i,,r tne rmni oi niei-itne i nueu imhks aui ociMm'rent nu-
new orders io her :iaal , onimandeti,.
They expressed wonder that such
statement nad been Included In the
Herman note.
It was explained in Teutonic iuar
ters that the information culaiued
in the note other than that applying
dlrectlv to the reiteration of assur
ances given In the Lusitania case was
given for the information of the t it,)
department, it being known that there
vns ', fie dela ' In receiving from
licrlin the complete appediccH to the
I tierman memoruui'uin.
l'it nt cutout,, diplomatic sources
came lh,. information (lint what had
been described as llaly's reply to the
suggestion of the I'liilcd States for u
modi's Vivendi providing for the dis
arming of merchant ship,, In the n
leresl of humanity In reality was a
report of Italy's position as outlined
lo Ambassador I'age at Home by the
Italian foreign office and forwarded
to the slate department. Tills was in
the form of an i-xplanulloii of the
conditions which had prompted Italy
CHEAT STRUGGLE
AROUND VERDUN
STILL WAVERING
IN THE BALALMO
E
Germans Claim Advances but
French Declare That Prog
ress of Teutonic Offensive
Has Been Checked,
DOUAUMONT CAPTURED
BUT IS IN RUINS
Artillery Duels of Vast Propor
tions Constitute Large Pait
in Gigantic Battle Now Be
ing Fought to Finish,
(mlv th limited nature of construe-, von
ti.ir, facilities ihe admiral exnla ined. from th
had caused the general board to fix
191'S us the date the American fleet
should etiual any afloat.
"If we could et it," he added, "I
would say we need It now, today, to
morrow." In reaciiinff its decision, the wit
ness said, the board had before it
the spectre of a dotiblo assault
against the United States with ene
mies In tho Atlantic and Pacific t;
meet, at the same time. Questioned '.characlor'iK( ,:
by Jtepresentativt, Callaway, he said sl)jrit.
the fleet proposea wuuiu meci uy
such c, mibination that did not in
cliido Fnsland. and he thought
unlikely that a combination against (
tin. fiilted ' Htates including- that!
(ountry ever would be formed. i '
Danger Is rnillUlienf. i lav MoaNisa journal ihcial leo
Asked if he had anv reason to be-j Minneapolis, Feb. 2S. An investi
lieve that there was "danger of an-Nation of vice conditions in Minneap-
nther , n,r, blnntion the al mirul SUia oils wan ,ifu a.w, v
"Vm" nn.l he was not Dressed tO.HCialS llf til
amplify bis' statement. 1 i ,latl
Representative 1! II 1 1 e r a s k e d. . Kirl,
whether tho sodden entrance of the
Fnited States Into the race of naval! a. life of shame.
KHioemaev would not cause other nti- Club women and welfare
tions to Increase their programs, j are Investigating a chain of nuestion.)
The admirul thought not, for severcl-able hotels and will present the cyj-j
years at least, or until the American j donee gathered to the grand Jury. j
fleet began to approach the lintisn, ( a ,., known a.s "Kid" .Scully,
for instance, in size. wanted in connection with the dis-
Asked bv Keiirescntative Kelly ; aimea ranee of the girl, who is the
. ambassador made public here
today by Carl V. Lachmund, of Yonk
ers, X. Y., who was one of I.ls.t's pu
pils.
. Atr T ...Jiiimn !ii.t , U n tehiln hit
was studying under Ihe composer
years ago the latter' secretary turned
over to him a wastcbaskct of discard
ed manuscripts. In. examining them
recently he found the hymn and sent
it to Ambassador von Ilernstorff, with
Ihe suggi'stlon that it be made a tier-
man army nymn. lie ueserioeu n as
of tiie (ierniun military
m MINNEAPOLIS AROUSED
OVER VICE SITUATION
runs whose names have been
elated with bis in reports of u. revo
lutionary movement were understood
to he awaiting him.
Teodoro Dahesa, u former gover
nor of Vera Cruz, and (lem-ral Aurc
liano r.laimuet, war minister und-r
Hiierta, were reported to be anion;!
them.
Although I )iar, eluded the federal
agents detailed to watch htm, depart
ment of justice officials said tonight
that since no evidence warranting his
nviesl had been found, and as he
Kcpresenlativo lewis, of Maryland,
contended lo the last for a 1 Oo-pmjiiil
limit for tiie parcel post. He declared
the limit of fifty pounds would "hog
tie" the parcels post -crvice and send
up the slocks of the express com
panies. The lull finally 4ns passed without
a record vote A motion to send It
back to the committee was oied
down, 174 to 1 ail.
chant ships to carry guns for defense, tlotm regarding the rights of b.illger
Make Big Haul
left the country, according to ''-l
ports, as a private citizen of Mexico j g
UlHl HOI y ,,-UUC, ..I nej .r,- i
revolutionary movement, nothing;
probably could have been done to de. :
tain him. i
Xo Hiiifl l.llenc'.
General Muss, a nephew ot me i,-,
mer Mexican president of that name, j mj MMN1N, JOU,L .u,.k l,. w,.
has been absent from Mexico Mine N((W Vo).u s x,, roblwry
Uuerta, whom he neipeii emauimn - ,of flll. valuable registered mail pack
ages in Which appears to have been
an attempt to steal at least $1,000,-
11 was not now and never has been, cuts und neutrals.
.contended that Americans t ravel Willi , . yr th.im uny ,, other tiling,
'Immunity on ships having orders to secret dlploiuniW caused the Kuropean
act offensively. It was Indlcutcd that War." said Mr. Cooper. "We want
j although Secretary Lansing was not ( m, diploma, In this country lo
'prepared at tills time u, accept as en-. .dimge the Fnited stales Into war or
elusive Ihe allegations of tlermany la jni,, H position which might
i regard to the confidential Instructions j 4va). piaeiically Inevitable."
! claimed to have been given to their! ,. . . -
sea caplains, unit ir tne claims were
I sustained, the fact would have an im
j portant bearing upon Ihe attitude of
this government. It is felt in high of
ficial (iniirters Hint tile ouestlon of
I motive is the cardinal consideration; ,i
in A7oi1 YnrL CHl l '," M'!rniinUy ,hf ' ferellce i,eiw-een ,.,,.,., nVVl.el land, Feb. 27 11-50
in iei$ lorK vuy defensive ,) oif..ivormincn,, n,-r v,-,,,,....: s,. :U ,
1 lliillsli Copy Xoi Arrlwd. i Uelaved. ) Monks and travelers ore
power, sent mm aoroau on ii ,!""
.,.iin ntiuKimv Most of this time he
j A copy of Ihe so-culled British In
Islrnellons which were handed to Am
1 bassador Gerard in lleiiin and which
'aip construed by Seerelary I.iinslng
to I,,. the all-important element In the
, .,.,v, ..fiie. ...... i ,hn i-niied states. nnd.n .. ,i. ,..., ,., v..,.. situation as it stands at present, have
lutmi) tiuuiiiw.1 "i."1 .1111.1 nrii ... ..... III luiliu.j vnmirtn..,. il,, Ik r tui.lii, , .
questioned a f ifleen-yenr-dd I although he was susprtted oi uei ,g York banks, became known here to-;'"" i ,', w iniougn n
fn,. tome time m ss Inn from her connected with tne rcvoiuuomt, j i- , ,,v. Tn). r0bi,ery occurred Miturciay " ."" 7 - ,, i-ie.
.. ..tU..-a: . .. 1,1.. fit, (Ml .. ,.f 111., I 1,11.11 M11I1CN. l ie
home, who told of being- forced into for which lluerli" and seci.u , mornlng w lien a t niteu Mates man ' ',"'' ' 1 ,, , V,,,. , ,, ,,,i m eon-
were m cted, 1)0 tnreci eviuen, automobll,, trucit was entered wnne "."' " , ' , " ' , i,, .h..
work,,. ! against him ever devetoped. , I na - ' ' , fi -; X
Uaxaca. w nere mux in cje "" j in- iiu n.is r .-iu,.;u nu,,, ,,,., uu e r.,..t n.a
launch his moveinen,., is the n y j jamches. three ,jf whlc,, wore from , n -narlne .,, hegh ,,f fa, UJt
Stale UUU lias ncm ....... a - . i - "'--,'- " ' ,1,.,,,,1-lm-c.l oi nbablv
...u tv votirg Ai'i'iirnnio in iiiiin:ii " nut -.-i-.-.... ,
l.. declared of tile stolen Washington luiekuites , "l"in
Imprisoned on Mount Saint llcrniml
by twelve feel of snow, which In
banked up to the lower windows of
Jhe monastery. So deeji Is the snow
that the famous Saint llernnrd dogs
ire not able to make their way
lluf-e avalanches have in.
telephone and telegraph
communication with the monastery.
It has been snowing steadily for
eight days and nights and the monks
will be isolated for a month. They
are plentifully supplied wllh food
lr mok,iin joiinl trlciAl, uuu ,ll
Tho tide of nattle around Verdun
apparently has not turned In favor of
either side. While the Germans claim
lurther advances, the French are
equally emphatic In their assertion
that they checked the attacks of tho
masseH of German infantry sent
against them,
Fort Douaunionl has fallen to tin
Germans but It Is reported to b In
ruins. Around this position tint most
desperate fighting of the battle has
been going on since Friday. Here
French counter-attacks were dellv-
with such crushing force, that
some of the German detachments
were driven back, and one regimflnl
Is almost encircled. To tho west of
this fort, In a hand to hand encoun
ter, the French have ejected the Ger.
mans from a small redoubt whhii
they, hu,l raptured.
Surprised in C luunpiiglic.
Throughout the i.ntlre Hector rf
Verdun, except on tho western bank
of the Meusn river, where the Gr
man bombardment, has slackened
Homculmt. the . artilh'rv duels iu
makotsilll of vast proportions. To tho
leoiitheast Ihe French at Kreson, In
the Woevre regions, have put down
(two German attacks against, tliut
town, but the Germain have InauRu-
In the
sur
prise attack they HUpcoeuert In n
teriuif French advanced position of
a siipportlim trench over a front of
nearly a mile, cupturinu im thjin
a thousand men.
Notwithstanding' the fresh resist c.i
the French have thrown into the
nffruy at Fort Douatimont, th ritr
man war officers doclare thut their
efforts hav been fruitless and that
tho Germans have advanced their
lines toward Uras und VacherauvlhV.
It is also claimed that the Germans
have entirely expelled the French
troin the Meusc peninsular, south
' ward from Hamogne. ux and west 'of
I Vncheriiuvllle. '
(in the Itusslan front around Fried.
SNOW TOO DEEP FOR
9T RFRNARD DDHS 1 Important movement, li
01, DtinnmnU UUUO rhlim,mMnil dlHtrlct where by a
fleet could do m
Admiral KniSlit
what the present
fase of an attack,
said:
Could Xot Msht Kiigluml,
"If wo were a.ltncked by, the KnK
lisli fleet, I think tho navy ought to
shut Itself up In Bomn harbor, but
against any other navy, wc ought to
go out and do the best we can." He
was not without hopes, he said, that
victory might lodge with the smaller
forces.
It was simgesled that war with
England was extremely unlikely. Ad-
n;-.i, t,-ti. '.,.i 4hlu vt'iis nrten to
liillll VlUJilL OH.1U in... n..
fiiiestion, although tho general board s "
1'lans had not contPinplated any fo-;
sible (inemy combination Including.
Fngland. The strange diplomatic de-.j
velopment.s of the present war, ,ho:
thought, made almost anything pos- j
thUi and he added: j
Conditions Cliansins'. i
"Certain features, which we liavo
heretofore recarded ns features
.-aieiy nave oecome pt-'imn ui v,w.
1 am not so sure we will never have,
a war with Kn gland."
Admiral Knight said that battl-!
cruisers and scouting craft were the
things needed vitally to make the i
present fleet of dreudnauKhtH effcr- :
tive.
As a purl of the 1917 program, the ;
admiral urged that Culebra island,;
off the eastern end of T'orto Kioo, j
and the farthest outpost on tho mat
from Kuropo to the Caribbean
been made an impregnable
where the fleet might be
Guam,
should
daughter of a South Minneapolis min
ister, was arrested late today ut Hot
Springs, Ark., on information fur
nished by the local police according
to a. telegram to the police department.
ISLOW PROGRESS
i nw uiiTrnnmiirn
01 wh I LnruvvLn
fighting
by liate
factions i contained $200,000.
their Indencndcnce of all
nod Carranz.i and other leaders were.
told that the state would be glad
- ..!.... I., the union
rcHuoio I'lix. .it , , ,,,,..
ever anv one demonstrated that he j pout hen.
had restored a stable central govern
nient.
rr.. f ...I. V..& U 1,1'
......le.iit hi. inn '
olilie'ii i'.. v....
case of
Injuries
would not act
an American who
aboard a vessel
TIvj robbery, the Inspectors
to 1 was clone by some one wno nan
when- i both to the mail truck and
tho
iWOOD DOESN'T THINK
MUCH OF THE MILITIA
!f MORNINO JOURNAL PPC,At tftAtBO Wlftf I
New York, Feb. I'S. MaJ. Gen.
ileonard Wood, 1 nltcd States army. In
BILL IN SENATE
th,.
sustained
which It could be definitely establish
kevii 'd was to be offensively used.
The slate department molten a
broad distinction between resistance
and offense. Il holds that a merch
ant ship h.is a light to resist capture
but not to act offensively. Of course,
it is adintltnd, a vessel loses all Im
munity while in tho act of resisting.
Authoritative information obtained
hern tonight Indicated thai llrlllsh
government would combat the a ne
gations of Germany that Itrilisli ships
ostensibly armed for ,i'onsc are in
i.efi.rnl reality armed tor ollenslvc purposes,
! , lelwlmil unit lllmikul there llHVe
io i.ium e i.oigi . I been heavy liltillory, machine gun
I (iskaloosa, Feb. I!K. F.xport explos-1 aIH rifle firing. In Gallchi Ihe itus.
ive fliers from the govct nmeni al'-o niil I di,,,,,, r(.,o,Hed an attempt by , tlm
j,t itock Island, III., have been sent , nstrians to citplure tri'iiches on tho
'lor In an effort to blast a channel middle Slrlpa river,
through the Ice gore that chokes the! Italians A.W Itt'pulwul.
lies Moines river near Giving, and, Tlll. ,,iMrlans, nccordlng to Vi'Mina.
which has caused the liver to reach u ,...., .,. down With sanguinary
losses an Italian nltncli against po-d-lions
,,n belli sides of Monte San
Miohelc end ('list of Arxon, and also
destroyed n:i Italian trench on tho
Gersia bridge head.
The ltussians arc still operating
successfully against the Turks who
tied from Kr.ciuin. and the ottoman
lories In tiie Persian battle aonr.
Further south, In Mesopotamia, a
bombardment by the Iiritlsh of a
Turkish camp on the lefl bank -i t
the Tigris river resulted in neavy
casual, us to the Turks.
Further deluils of 111" fiBhtinjf be
tween the lliilish and Tribesmen or.
fleered by Turks In western Kypt
show that the leader of Ihe Ttibs-
' r, n r r. .. r ..men, Xuii lley, a brother of the
.JrlVG OaSC'S Ot Uyiiamite I Cai (Turkish war minister, was killed, and
. i i i 1 r I ' C 1 b'H principal sunoroinate ouii,hmi
(jl'Cat HOle III Ul'OUnCi 111 Ot,:; that the Tribesmen left large
i 'oil on II ,,,r. ,f. I numbers of dead and wounded on
LOUIS bUljlirb; OW MOUSUS , tll(. f,.,, nH mel,- main force fled.
ri rr,, I ' The Italian hospital ship Mare.
Al'C UeniOHSIlCU Icblar,, has I n sunk in the Adrlatlo
I off the coast of Albania. It is ho.
' i llevvd the vessel si ruck an Austrian
mine. While the estcnt of the dis
unities has not become known, It Is
reported they were numerous.
flood stage.
iu s.iid to be preparing to lesisi. it.
is toward this center of organized re
sistance that Diaz is said to he niov
1,,,. ...,, in, .anied bv I.ee Christina i,
. r . ,i,,.i,.
ilt'i'i'h
ment; Lease System Is Pro
vided For,
After fnrranzas rec
foreign governments, he choso not to.
j parley with the people of ua.a a. ;
however, demanding: that they accept.
; his government unconditional!.
To entorco .n.s ' ""V command of the department of th,
exoeditions now are being dlrettea ' ,
iiLMinst the state and the state s al my , ' ..." ..r ,.,,.. It was said that Iiritlsh masters had
criticized the si de militia of lhe!""t msiruc,..,, ,,, noi r .or s
iCnlted States and said that Its o. galil-j inarln.-H. that on he '; ' ''
zatioi, would never be a success In "'" "",W '"" L"'? 1 ,t
case of war. In his ooilllon the at- ",". " "v"1'1 " " '"".."'' " '
AmoriCim WJUI'IV IlllUll iiir" ,. nun, L,hiii.Mn,,' (.imhv ,"
lout Central America because of his j . ' unsucess-! 1""'r,"l" !"" 'j'''''" ,.
j participation in revolutionary ente,.r , ,at , W( , j J-uough ... us l,;mbs m to, l--
prises. , lather wait for Ihe organization of a.
i Not koiwh m-i . : volunteer force. i ,,
V.- . ... . . r ...... .... t',...nMU nu , Oas S. i . .... ...i. .. ...... .. .-,n,l- " I ... . i lie "t . .. . ' -
f ShoHc Mnncnrp Ikft V tO bfi: " luV1"" . :'"'"". V... .p. I. . 11 ,,n'" V'"" "Ml mv" V "r! All llilngs considered, the state d
luiimiua mwwuxiv . -j i eslimaieu mai umt. iimh"- nype nave maniiesieu so niucn interesi , ,, , ,,i,.i,.,, ,,. f,,t ,i,
MndifieH bv Mvers Amend-l n"ar,y 215'000 . Z o!1'.' '"" ,,f, i"i';,!1ir,',ln"''; .wri,.d!lh(. M,(1Hnimv is ,',,. less remote ;
IVIUUIIItU Vy IVICIO nmuiu w.01ll(J b(, poorly equipped and almo.TT .,, j,.,.rili y,w,. "Tho time has come. - . f ....,,,, , mar fu-,
without artillery. The new mo w-;w.n u- people ol this country stand ; !IH r(,HnH , ,,. ,,. dermani
ment is not regarded t.v ofliclaisiu ,ln the most need of preparedness. Y.-, llH,rian policy. In (he first!
as seriously menacing I arrana s , miv,. been complacently relying on a ,..,, (lffl(.juH .eve that command-'
government because they douot Dlu.s.i impression produced by iir!,,r;( (i.rnian and Austrian subma
obilllv to establish hlinseir as; " ischoolbook histories which have never j ,.;,,;, ,v, take p.irllcidar care not to
popular leader or lo secure, sufficient . toil the truth about bur wars and our j ;lUm. wthout unriilng nrined mer-'.
funds. They admit, uowevci, mm .... oinnary acnicv enieins. i nese iiimoi u-s i ,.Ju, l)L x,s.x,1h upon which there may
nave glossed over our iaiiurcs and ex
aggerated our successes; In fact, so
magnified them that we hove come m
had 'day to shorten debate on the su-'-, , r for,.es, would further com- believe
plicate the already complex situation lion.
! confronting the de iacm p,eM,.v,.,.
1 AUhough Carran.a adherents pro
i r,.ss to .see in the presence at New
SubnuiHntw Not Knonsh. I by the public minis comiMou e. , ()f Kl.;lncisc., ,ie io, j.a.a,
i,v.i...i 1.-..1..V.. j,cI.ir...H with the The Shields bill which would pc i ,. , I ,n ssa ,1 or here, the worn-
suggestion that the coasts of the j mU ,-onsti uction of dams on navia-. ( iU ( f fiuil(.u end of Diaz s ,
T'nited States could be rendered safe! de rivers for Ihe development ;t a has been no evidence, i., .,,,,.. incl,ui.... i.,i
from attack bv establishing a chain hydro-electric power by private cam- ,., !a,,t has secured any fl- Lciini. I'-b JS.-A Ocrman corrt-j
,... , , iii.f,.,.. the senate mo':!' , , , ,,i i ii. s,ui mono 'spondent at the erdun front reports .
. ,...,..s ........ n.,ri,,.,. ,.. ,v,.,.(k Much of the ai'K-i-r " ' ,f mis .-onntrv .that on the night i,r February a:', when Slates 111 previous correspondence in
No suhmanne d-tce of o ,r than two ks i " t,,,! sources of this .onnti. Haumont region the Lusitania case. There were strong
I,IT Ml ..... 1. . ....... J.. ..,1,11... . 1.1 1 I illlilt.l. IllhJ llll 'IV f It II 111 111 lllUtflDllII
........ 1 1 t in.. iiih l I. uiir i w swum iiiir"ii."si- .1 .in ti rr n iiitit'i v 1- mm 1 ihm ..-i..-, (" n m "
I : I-1 VIlI'I.Mi tH.XId in m v ill tint u i in- mil 11 "i?iiimi.i,
THREE KILLED
1
i'
MANY INJURED
! MOUSING JOURNAL SPICIAt LiAliiD j
Washlnftton, Feb. '.'. Senators tn-j
wrested 111 legislation for the devel-
r.. ,.,., ,,f .v.-iler noWer 11 inneo -
due lo sbo'rteli debate on
fortress: led of attaching as an aniemim, ,u
Vic.Si.d iV,, lh hielils rln 111 bill, now up for
In ih.. TVipifie he thongni, 1 nassagc. ine .Myers wain
be similarly equipped
that
I organized revolution among 100 ,
lot southern Mexico, where a uma.l
'band might hold out against, vastly
w explosion:
bill.
! which has been favorably report"
bv the nub io lands commutee.
wc arc imconiiuerahle as a na-
GRAPHIC STORY TOLD
OF FIGHT AT VERDUN
The Day in Congress
menjoi re
measure whu n was " "
ulor Mvers as a substitute, lo
is water power bin wni n
passed the houie.
Provision is, made in the Myers
bv
the
h.us
Xew Orb
repoiis as
whereabouts
tiou were current
eans' Dalin-American
From
was obtii
SEN ATK. Triivisioii is made in the Myers nil.
Hesuinecl debate on Shields water fl,r tni, i,.aHing of public lands as
power hill, Senator Hosting- Introdno- wato. power sites; regulation ani
ins substitute proposed by conscrva- t.onti ()j being hit lo the inttrstal"
ttuni-iM. !,..., .re.. commission when the pov-
Inuian committee continued work;... ,. ., i,.m,i in two or more state;. v,,w York to conter
on apnronrlalion bill .'. . ,u r.,r I. .into would have to followers there
Military committee continued won;, ,oM (v wjt)l r,.iuiremenls of state
n details of army reorganization plan. ( s ,,,r 0l,taining the right to 110
I'ninimously ratified the Haitienj ' w. t,.r .fty per cent of the
protectorate treaty. I ,',..' froI1, such leases would b..
I.ecessed ut 5:20 p. m. to "0011,! , , ,,. in vrliiirli the plant
Tuw"'- Iw"," located, and the other CO per
cent would go to the tunci tor reca-
I maliou jiroj, ' . ' . ,i. u, ,,,, ,!. ki. followers were to
The sniems m.. n,-c .. mi,iir,. operation, ln-gun.
toward pa-ssage ' i, lt.a,ned today that a number
.I:,...,.,' ,1,' aV.iof Mexicans formerly associated with
Cummins w mcn -" , nt had left New Orleans recently for
. - ...... . I . ... S. hip S lll'lllll Jl,.'.-" - . . .. . .
the compensation
HOL'hK. ,
Ways ml means committee favora
bly reported bill to l peal fi t-e sufcar
brtylsion of Ihe tariff law.
, Navy and military committees con
tinued, work on national defense pro
gram. t'awd postoffice appropriation hill
anvii, tr approximately $321.000;omi.
Adjourned at 7 ; 1 0 p. m. tu noon,
Tuisduy.
having crawled tinm the French' fir-
ans, Feb. 2. Coiif licl ing , ing line, lie said that u French ea)-
to FeliX Ola. present j lain iilld miai.v niei, ue.-iii-u ,11 miii.-ii-and
his ultimate destlna-ider, but were unable to Rive them-
touight in Acw ,.r-, selves op on aecotnii m toe hhchm,
colony. i or the (ierman lire.
, . 'fl. . .11 i . .. . t U... -:
one source in' lniurina, ion me iineciion m in. me .i..
ined that Diaz hud gone to ' changed imewh;,l, the correspondent
with some ot nis says, Hereupon ,,,- mx, c i eiieoioen
isiiii endered, others gave themselves
Information irnm finer poumn nu.-.;",.. ,
tint accompanied by l.ee Christmas,'
he loft here last Tuesday by train fori Plead t.uilty or .Murder.
Key West, where tl,,y were to em- Pittsburg, Pa., Feb. 2s. William
hark Friday or Saturday for Cuba. McChire and Joseph White pi, arte,)
i.atcr, according to this report, Dial guilty in court this morning to tho
intended to go Frontera. in the state j murder of Mrs. Caroline Vlehmier, a
iu soutnern .Mexico, " n e Pi, ,,v wni- wliose nodv wasrouu.i
tmt MOHHINI KUflM.L BriLIA, l.tAfelU
St. I.ouls, Fcli. 2S. Three persons
be Aineiicans. This belief is strength- arc known l have '"'en luileil aim
ened by Hi., declaration In the Ger-jmanv Inline, I. seven of them serlotis
inan nole received today, which was ; ly, when live cases of , i.n,ltc stored
ac, lilies, ed in bv Austrian IhroUKlijat M iplewood, for sewer construction
Par,,,, wiedincl,, clxirge of the em-1 work, exploded I.H.- Ibis afternoon,
bassy (V- re, Unit the orders Issued to ' Mnpiewond Is a suburb ,,r about r,, mm
th,, iiaial commanders were so f urm -1 popu la Hon iid..,lnliig St. I.ouls on the
1 1 ; 1 1 . i ! as lo I .re Veil t Ihe ilcst ruol ion soulhvtesl.
of enemy liners "on account, of their Approximately Ihlliy houses
ai niamcnl ' unless nich arinanieiit is deniollslicl by (he explosion
i, roved " manv other bouses were
In the note mesentcd bv Count v,,n I'aliy lonighi searching parlies
lieinstorff several references are j exploring Ihe ruins for more
made to declarations of the Fnited : 'ivhieli It is Mas feared had
buried in Hie wrccKage.
The blcutilicl (bad:
intimation today that administration; Ml.s. il-,SM., iii..m.ii
ofliiiul," al'e incliiied to resent the:l.,l. Ill,
repetition of certain expressions and Mli-iS liiil'.
ivlcrences wllh, , lit the lexl III which: Ihe home of A
tliey up; cared, holding that In doing, : was demolished.
so the (ierman government has given MISS .WACOM; F.V.WS.
.., false Impression of the attitude of, First reports were that the explo-
Ibb' joveinineiil. It was even surt-ision had resulted in an appalling loss
gested that should the Foiled Stales, of llf" and thai I"" had been Injured.
iv in il oi.iiiMMili.i.ii,.., , .i-..k, .mi d : II :,va nil, e anioiiiauc, s nun i,i,oi
Ol ll.M WS
M ss III !)
uv Tin: l iii.NCii
ii in;
.0,", p. 111.,
massacre,
di.
Were !
bodies J
been I
of Or. en - ,
F.A i:F.TT. maid a I
I,. I'hellelV, Will' I,
lip
w,
I. o ins and
re rtuiheil
lof Tabasco,
be assembled
vances
day. An
am
which received
Senator Shields,
shall be arrived at
bv the law of tiie state ,-......
condemninc of private property for
public use in thitt state.
Cuba. H was recalieu niso mat i.oi
onel Hitiolito Villa, brother ' of Fran
cls:'f, Villa, had been in Cuba several
(lOUdUUtli OB I0.)
in her home In McCandless township
December 1 last. Her son-in-law,
Aaron Fell, w hom McCIure and While
declare puld them $T0 to attack Mrs.
Vbhinier, in order that he might se
cure possession of n note for M.Ouo
she held against him. was placed on
trial chanced with complicity iu the
'.rime,
today it may take occasion to point
out the erroneous construction placed
I upon several of these expressions,
i Th communication from Germany
i probably will be considered by Presi
,. in. Wilson and his cabinet liiiiim
; row and official indication regarding
it Is expected soon thereafter.
No Precedent I, lie, I, led.
In regard to reference made in lie; "
note to permitting Italian ships to sail : u i-ci,iikiii i.n.t i.ie
from American porta It was said nt ' Appletoii. Wis., Feb
the state deiiarlinent that It should Smith, of Khim lander
b,. clearlv understood thai pledges , ber of t In
were re pilled to
as they arose and
wagons ic
coinpanic',
plevvnod.
At mi rally hour loniyht Ihe calls'-
of II, e explosion WHS Mot KlloWII. A
In.le sixty Itet !n diameter and fifteen
deep was trii In Ihe ground by the
blast, which to,s heard several mile.-away.
In liallle.
2S. Kllu ood
Wis,, a mem-
freshman class at I awrence
meci special crises ' college here last year, lias been lulled
thut it was not in-! "somewhere in France," according to
tended to establish a precedent or lay, word received in Appletoii today.
down a rule, officials also declared Smith enlisted In a Canadian contin-
nif haticaliy thai Germany had not gent after school closed last spring,
been asked to postpone tr haiige the ' lie hud been wounded twice before.
;
! Paris. Feb. 2 7-1
i laved) "A frightful
were!'1""' German soldiers taken prisoner
and j In battle of Verdun describe tho
damaged. ! 'a '" ' u"' ' l enen artillery, ma
chine gun ami rule lire-. nut i,i
Impetus of Ihe assaulting forces was
not diminished thereby during th
lirsl four davs because of the fresh
troops throw it lulo the battle unceii t.
ingiy.
"Advance no mailer what tho
louses imiv be," was the order given
to the German troops before the al
ia, k. This is erif led by documents
found on one of the captured offi
cers. The most critical tmonietlt in lh'
;-i days actions was when the Ger
mans gained a footing in the cn
I reached camp by the capture of
Fort liouaumonl. The least hesita
tion on Ihe pall "f the defenders
Mould have been disastrous. Th;'
Germans redoubled their efforts t.,
take advantage of any confusion, but
Ihe Flench immediately begun -i
, ounter-oti'ensive.
"French infantry advanced ;'t
double t,,ek lo the trumpet charge
and leaped at the first ranks of tho
Germans with Irrcslstihle fury. Tint
dash wits tuui l, -ions to both sides.
Tho thinned French ranks were nt
to bo denied, but wcr.t on to the sec
ond German wing, whilo reinforce
ments were hurried to their mipport.
The German lines wavered first wt sl
ot Uouauuiont, then were driven out
four
fire
Ma
