rm
IMES
VOL. XIX NO. 296.
UAKHK, VERMONT, TUESDAY, FKHUUAllV 29, ' 1910.
PRICE, ONE CENT.
THE BARRE DAILY
RENEW FIERCE
BOMBARDMENT
NEARVERDUN
Terrific Fire by Heavy Guns
May Mean That the Kaiser
Will Plan to Renew the
Attack on the French For
tified Position Which Re
sisted First Offensive
mi'iit nwci'pg in km arc of about a third1
of a circle, diHtunt approximately live
mill's all tlic way.
BRITISH CASUALTIES.
Total During February Wat 739 Officers
and 17,847 Men.
Loudon, Feb. 20. The Itiitish casual-
tics in all theatres, published during Feb
ruary, total TM) ollicers and 17.H47 men.
SHOCK FELT
MANY MILES
U. S. TAKES HAITI
PROTECTORATE
GERMANS CAPTURE
VILLAGES IN WOEVRE
Manhuelles Was Taken, but
French Claim That by a
Counter-Attack They Re
gained the Western Edge
of the Village and Are Still
Holding It
What may mean a renewal of the Ger
man drive on Verdun in the terrific force
which marked the initial attack Is con
tained in the announcement from Paris
to-day that the bombardment to the
. north of the fortress is assuming great
er intensity. The heaviest infantry
righting last night seema to have been in
the Woevre district, southeast of the
fortress, where the Germans attacked
and captured the village of Manhuelles.
The French declare that in a counter
attack they regained the western bound
ary of the village which they are still
holding.
The German official statement also
claims the capture of Champion and an
nounces' that troops have passed Dippe,
Abacourt and Blanchee.
The German war office also announced
that a small armored work northwest of
Douaumont was stormed by the Ger
mans. Berlin announced the total of
tinwounded French prisoners taken at
16,575.
The Russians are energetically con
tinuing their campaign in Armenia. Ad
vices from Petrograd declare the Turkish,
forces are hastily evacuating Trebixond
on the Black sea.
CRUISER PROVENCE
LOST BY FRENCH
IN MEDITERRANEAN
Official Announcement Was Made in Par
is That the Vessel Was Sunk Last
Saturday and That 296 Sur
vivors Reached Malta.
Paris, via London, Feb. 29. The aux
iliary cruiser La Provence was sunk in the
Mediterranean sea last Saturday, it was
announced officially to-day. At Malta
2!t survivors have been landed.
Four hundred survivors are also re
ported to have landed at Milo.
La Provence was one of the largest
and finest French line vessels and was
requisitioned for naval service at the out
break of the war.
By Treaty Which Was Ratified by the
Senate Late Yesterday This Country
Assumes Well-nigh Full Charge
of Turbulent Island Republic.
Washington, I). C, Feb. 2!). The Sen
ate yesterday unanimously ratified the
treaty with Haiti under which the Unit
cj States assumes protectorate over the
turbulent island republic, taking over
control of its finances and police tuaran
teeinjr its territorial integrity and un
dertaking to develop its resources. The
treaty already has been approved by the
Haitien congress and iU terms virtually
aro in operation under the eye of
strong American marine expedition.
I his treaty w as negotiated last year
with the I) Artiguenave government set
up after marines and bluejackets, under
Rear Admiral (aperton had put down
the revolution which overthrew President
Vilbrun Uuillaunie. During the preceding
few years Haiti bad seen eight presidents
deposed and most of them murdered or
exiled. Uuillaunie was dragged from the
French legation and killed. 1 he possibil
ity of European intervention to protect
foreign lives and property and insure the
payment of foreign loans was being dis
cussed when the American forces took
charge of affairs on the island.
The principal articles provide for
American supervision of finances and
tbo collection of customs, American su
pervision of the payment of the public
debt, inquiry into the validity of exist
ing debts and regulation of the contract
ing of future debts, policing of the re
public by a native constabulary officered
for the present by Americans, interven
tion by the I'nited States if necessary
to preserve order and for guaranteeing
territorial integrity and independence,
development of Haitien resources under
American auspices.
It is set forth particularly that the
United States shall bv its good offices
aid the Haitien government in proper
and efficient development of its agricul
tural, mineral and commercial resources,
and in establishment of the finances of
the republic on a solid basis.
When formal ratifications have been
exchanged the president of Haiti will
appoint, on nomination by tho president
of the United States, a general receiver
and such employes as may be necessary
who shall collect, receive and apply ail
customs duties on imports and exports
accruing at Haitien ports. There also
will be appointed on recommendation of
President Wilson a financial adviser, who
will l an officer attached to the minis
try of finance to lend aid to that depart
ment of the government.
As Ruilding in High Explo
sive Plant at Woburn,
Mass.; Blew Up
COURT PREPARING
AN OPINION
ON ELIGIBILITY
Judge Watson Is Understood to Be Writ
ing an Interpretation of the Law
Relating to the Right to Vote
on Referendum. '
FIRE FOLLOWED
THE DETONATION
Officials of the New England
Manufacturing Co. Deny
Outside Agencies Cause
ENGINEER FAILED
TO TAKE WARNING
OF SET SIGNALS
Coroner Mix Finds That New Haven
Employe, Now Dead, Was Respon
sible for Collision Which -Caused
10 Deaths.
New Haven, Conn., Feb. 29. The fail
ure of William R. Curtis, the engineer of
an extra passenger train, to observe the
signals set against him was responsible
for the collision of his train with a
stalled train at Milford on Feb. 22 and
the consequent loss of 10 lives, accord
ing to the finding of Coroner Eli Mix,
which was announced to-day.
ITALY COMMITS
HOSTILE ACT
ON GERMANY
Government Has Requisitioned 34 . Ger
man Steamers Interned in Italian
Ports Which Probably Will
Lead to Declaration
of War.
Iyondon, Feb. 29. It was announced in
the House of Commons to-day that the
Italian government has requisitioned 34
German steamers interned in Italian
ports.
FELIX DIAZ GOES
TO START REVOLT
Wodburn, Mass., Feb. 29. The plant
of the New England Manufacturing com
pany, which is engaged in making high
explosives for the entente allies, was
the scene of an explosion early to-day
which wrecked one building and damaged
another. Fire started and although it
was still smouldering this forenoon, it
was under control and there was no
danger of spreading to other combustible
property. Of the eight men who were
working on the night shift only one,
Frank H. Cornett, was slightly injured.
The indications tQ-day, gained from
the statements of the company officials,
including Captain W. E. McKay of Bos
ton, the president, and from a general
inquiry were that the explosion was ac
cidental and without connection with any
outside agency. A rumor that one of the
guards started, just before the explosion,
to investigate, a noiso which he thought
might have been made by a man climb-1
ing the fence surrounding the buildings,
was the only suggestion of an outside
agency.
An explanation of the explosion ad
vanced authoritatively was that certain
elements in the explosive compound
known as trinitroluol failed to fuse when
thrown together in the vat. The result
was a ' hissing as these several acids
proved incompatible, a flush of flames
when unexpected chemical action took
place and, nntimatelv, an explosion which
demolished the building in w hich the vat
was located. Another building 100 feet
away, in which benzol was prepared, was
partly smashed, but the chemicals were
not affected. The shock of the explosion
was felt for many miles.
The fire was one of several which, to
gether with minor explosions, have oc
curred within six months. In each rase
the officials of the company stated they
found no indication that outside agencies
were responsible. 1 he loss in to-day s
explosion is estimated by the officials at
$50,000.
The plant was situated in a remote
section of North Woburn away from the
residential quarter, but 19 other build
ings where heavy w'ar orders were being
filed are nearby. Among these struc
tures are those of the Merrimack Chemi
cal company. So great was the confusion
immediately following the explosion that
it was not known whether there was any
loss of life.
A general alarm of fire was promptly
turned in, and as a precautionary meas
ure an emergency call was sent for all
the available ambulances in the city.
Many physicians, aroused by the violent
concussion which shattered windows over'
a wide radius also hastened to the scene
n automobiles. The plant had been heav-
Although, when adjournment was tak
en yesterday afternoon at 3 o'clock by
the Vermont supreme court, it was an
nounced that court would come in at
o'clock this morning, after court had
heard arguments on the petition brought
by Thomas W. Martin of Urookfield, a
delinquent taxpayer, against the Brook
field board of civil authority, to compel
the board to place his name on the check
list, an opinion on the matter which, it
is understood, is being written by Jus
tice John If. Watson was not completed
this forenoon and a decision mav not be
made until to-morrow morning.
H is anticipated that the decision will
practically govern the action of civil au
thority boards in other towns and cities
in the state and the opinion Is awaited
with a considerable amount of anxiety,
although it is generally conceded that
the court will rule in favor of allowing
delinquents to vote on the two state
wide questions, the primary election law
and the so-called Perry bill.
Arguments on the test ease occupied
about an hour yesterday afternoon,
Lieut. Gov. Hale K. Darling appearing in
behalf of the petitioner and Attorney
John X. Harvey of JJarre for tho Urook
field authorities. ,
Lieut, fjov. Darling said the petitioner
had resided in the town for 10 or 12
vears and was a dulv qualified freeman
but had not paid his taxes prior to Feb.
15. 1915: hence the action taken. He.
said the sole question related to the defi
nition of the qualification of a voter on
the referendum and argued that they
are statewide, not town meeting propo
Bitions.- He was of the belief that be
cause the questions are to lie considered
on town meeting rlnv, instead of before
or after, did not decide the qualifications
of the legal voter, the date being fix.r'd by
the legislature as a matter of conveni
ence. He held that the legislature bad
not intended to lie unfair and submit
the questions onlv to tax-paving free
men and that to rule otherwise would
not be submitting the propositions to
the elass of people in the state affected
by the enactments.
The attorney for the defendants
showed that the sections in the Perry
bill relating to the voting were taken
from the 1913 referendum on the State
House bill and that three years ago only
tax-paying freemen voted on that ques
tion and he exhibited a Montpelier
checklist to bear out his statement.
The legislature, argued Attorney Har
vey, had examples upon which to base
the present referendum and instead of
following the precedent established In
voting on the liquor question in 18.12
and in 1002 they deliberately chose tho
form used in 1913. Because of this he
contended that it was the intention of
tho legislature to have only tax-paying
freemen vote on the questions to be vot
ed upon March 7.
The petitioners attorney, in replv
said that the 1 01 3 State House referen
dum had aroused but little interest, that
CLEARS SHIPS
WITH GUNS
But U. S. Government Gets
Assurances Weapons Are
for Defense Only
ITALIAN VESSELS
NOW AT NEW YORK
The Giuseppe Verdi and San
Guglielmo Given Or
ders To-day
Washington, D. C, Feb. 20. The Ital
ian liners Giuseppe Verdi and San Gug
lielmo, which were at New York with
mounted guns aboard, were ordered
cleared to-day on assurances from the
Italian government that the armament
is for defensive purposes only.
Germany's Proposal Discussed.
The latest formal note from Germany
regarding the future conduct of subma
rine warfare was before President Wil
son and the cabinet to-day. Secretary
of State Lansing took with him to the
White House a pouch which was under-
tood to contain the German memoran-
um and other papers relating to the
case. Jt was indicated in well-informed
rcles that the president would insist
on a strict interpretation of the rules of
international law and applying to Ger
many's new submarine warfare.
NO AGREEMENT
AT QUINCY YET
CHECK HANDLER
IN $1,000 BAIL
Ora Kellogg Is Alleged to1
Have Forged Murray
Cutler's Name
TO SEVERAL PAPERS
OF VARYING SUMS
But Report Came to Barre This After
noon That Settlement Had Been
Made at Hardwick.
From authentic sources infoniattioii
ciinio over tho wire to Harro this after
noon concerning tho industrial situation
in Quincy, Mas., and other New Eng
land granite towns. In every inwtanco
the manufacturers are bidding out for a
bill that will expire in 102(1, while tl
unions are contending for fivo-jear bills.
Tim one and one-quarter inch tool is a
point in contention almost everywhere.
ns the cutters are anxious to nave me
ono-inch tool represent the. limit in sio
while the manufacturers stand out for
an extension of a quarter-inch. It is rev
ixirted that an agreement has been
reached between the cutters and manu
facturers in Hardwick, although this re
port could not be verified this after
noon. Elsewhere tho two tactions seem
to le hopelessly deadlocked so far as
reaching an agreement before to-morrow
morning. March 1, is concerned.
At (Juincy, where conditions within
tho ranks of laW, as well as between
the unions ami the manufacturers, offer
a striking parallel to the conditions ex-
sting in Jlarre lust spring, tho two com- der arrest on a charire of forsrerv. Ke
nnttees met jointly last night anil failed I logg spent the night in a cell at polien
Young Man V -.Ken by
Police Who- x,v-Keturned
to P- vvLast 'Night
Ora Kellogg, njjed 24, who is said to
lave been sojourning in Stanbridge East,
: Q., Bincc last Thursday, alighted from
the 7 o'clock train last night and stepped
into the waiting custody of Officer .lohii
". Dineen, who forthwith placed him un
der arrest on a charge of forgery.
f reaching an agreement. Adjournment
ATTACK ON SHIPS
WILL BE STARTED
AT MIDNIGHT
Germany'i Leading Statesmen Say That
German Memorandum Regarding the
Treatment of Armed Vessels Will
Positively Go into Effect.
Berlin, Monday, via London, Tuesday,
Feb. 20. The Associated Press is in
formed by Germany's leading statesmen
that the new rule of submarine warfare
announced in the German memorandum
regarding the future treatment of armed
merchantmen will positively be put into
rtieet at midnight to-morrow, Tuesday
fib. 2D.
BARRE'S NEWEST GRANITE PLANT
Shield & Mills' Place is Located on Burn
ham's Meadow.
One of the newer and busy granite
manufacturing plants in Barre is the
plant of Shield A Mills in liurnham
merfdow, which was recently completed
and is now one of the spots of humming
he felt that if it had been, freemen
would have been allowed to vote on that
question.
BRATTLEB0R0 MAN FINED.
HAND-TO-HAND
FIGHTING NOW
West of Douaumont Fort the French
Drove Germans from Small Redoubt
East of Verdun the Germans
Pressed French Back.
Eluded United States Agents, Who Were
Ordered to Watch Him and Sailed
from New Orleans Last Night.
Washington, I). C, Feb. 29 Felix Diai,
who has been watched for several months
by department of justice agents because
of suspected activities in violation of
American neutrality, apparently has left
the United States for Mexico with the
intention of launching a new revolution
against the Carranr.a de facto govern
ment. Information reaching officials here
indicate that he hopes to organize and
lead the troops of his native state. Oax
aca, and such other forces in southern
Mexico as he can gather about him.
General Diaz left New Orleans Friday
for Havana, where several Mexicans
whose names have been associated with
his in reports of a revolutionary move
ment, were understood to be awaiting
him. Theodore Dehesa. a former governor
of Vera tYus, and General Aurelioano
Mlanquet. war minister under Huerta,
were reported to be among them.
Although Diaz, eluded the federal
agents detailed to watch him, department
of justice officials say that since no evi
dence warranting his arrest had been
found, and as he left ths country, a
ily guarded ever since it bad'2been enlarged afternoon found Etnedio Fellegreno gu.l
to take care of war contracts. A few . ' of kping with intent to sell nitoxi
months sko. following a series of small : '"W I'ljuors. A fine of $300 with costs
explosions of unexplained origin, these . . lmPose'1
guards had been doubled and every pre
aution taken to keep strangers away.
DIED FROM FLAMES.
Iindon, Feb. 20. German assaults and
French counter-charges continue nort h of j cording to reports, as private citizen
Verdun, where the battle is still raging of Mexico and not as a leader of any ot
flercelv. The German infantry attacked iranized revolutionary movement, nnth-
scvcral times yesterday, but were driven j ing protnibly could have been done to de-
hack ry the j-rencn nre ami counter
attack in this region, ' according to the
official communication is-m-d by the Par
i war office hast night.
Hand-to-hand encounters occurred west
Maine Woman Was Alone When Lamp
Exploded.
Orrington. Me.. Feb. 2!). Mrs. Ellen
Shiel, aged 75, who lived alone at Or
rington Corner, lost her life yesterday
afternoon by suffocation and burns,
caused by the explosion of a lamp which
she was lighting in her kitchen.
Neighbors saw smoke and flames com
ing from the house. Dr. George II. Tib
betts, who lives nearby, with much dif
ficulty forced his way through the smoke
into the kitchen and brought the body
of Mrs. Shiel outside. Her clothing was
nearly all burned off, but lster develop
ments indicated that she was suffocated
by smoke. v
Dr. Tibbetts was somewhat burned
about the face and hands and suffered
from inhaling smoke. The fire was ex
tinguished after the house was damaged
$11X1 or more.
Mrs. Shiel was bom in England. Her
first husband was ('apt. George Hartlett
of Orrington and her second ( apt. .lames
Shiel of Brooklyn. She passed much of
her life at sea and visited nearly all of
the principal ports of the world.
h i,. .r,,i industry m the meadow. Conforming in
exterior lines to ine more mouern 1 pe
of granite manufactories, it is equipped
with the latest machinery and withal it
is a plant whose owners are among the
men that are making Barre granite a
watchword wherever monumental, build
ing and ornamental stone is in demand.
The main shed has lateral dimensions
of 182 and 40 feet with an altitude that
permits of the introduction of interior
crane equipment anil contributes mate
rially to the ventilating facilities of the
plant. There are two wings, each having
wall dimensions of 24 and 32 feet. Threw
polishing wheels have been installed and
the reputation long held by Mr. Mills
Having Pleaded Guilty to Keeping Liquor
with Intent to Sell.
Brattleboro, Feb. 2!). Judge Frank E.
Barber of the municipal court yesterday
Attorney A. F.
c. i i. t .u. I. . ...:n i - 1 . .. 41. "
case to the supreme court. Pellegreno - shieM fir t() ,,,,,; th
. - ; "" """"",r" "J line of polished work. George Mills'
of $400.
Ijist month Sheriff C. E. Mann arrested
I name had been linked with the polishing
. eurgre,..,, ' ; 'K """ years even as Waldron Shield, the other
"T , ., " . 7'" I member of the firm, has been very activo
key w ith Analysis by the state e hem-j jn Wa, wholl.Ie eM in te t
ist showed that the contents of all of! ... ., '
them contained from 8.40 to 56.40 per
cent of common alcohol.
were obtained from a New York com
pany which assured Pellegreno that be
would not require a license to sell them.
The case is regarded with unusual inter
est by lawyers.
DIDN'T FURNISH BAIL.
HENRY JAMES DEAD.
British Be-
American Novelist Turned
tain him.
Genera! Diaz, a nephew of the former I I-omlon. Feb. 20. Henry James, the
Mexican president of that name, lias 'novelist, died yesterday.
been ab-ent from Mexico since Huerta.! Henry James was born an American.
mhoni be helped establish in power, sent but died a British subject. In July, 1013,
of Fort Douaumont and the German
were drhen from a sma
they had takeit. Fort pouaumorit is in States and altlioiiffh he was usnp.-tnl of worked in Em-land for 4H vears and hail
Calvin Rich Charged Formally with As
sault with Intent to Kill
Rutland, Feb. 29. Calvin Rich, the
Mention Civil war veteran who was ar
rested last Saturday as the outcome of
a drunken row at his home when John
.McLaughlin of Rutland Town, a lumber
jack, was stabbed three times with a
hunting knife, was arraigned before City
Judge F. G. Swinnerton yesterday after
noon on the charge of assault with in
tent to kill while armed with a danger
ous weapon. He waived examination
and was placed under bail of $1,500, go
ing to jail in default of aecurity.
Harvey Ranger, who was at the house
during the brawl was fined for intoxica
tion. McLaughlin has a yet developed no
signs of blcwxj poisoning and will prob
ablv recover.
IT.. ; k t ; .,a f. ... ; ., i .... An;Di,A.i n..ra
The bottles .:; ;: "1,7' : : r.. ," 7. "'w
The plant is located on a site just north
of the Hoyt 4 Milne shed, erected last
summer, ami the Brown A Carroll plant,
which was the first of the more modern
plants in that section of Burnham's
meadow. A spur of the Central Vermont
railroad has been extended to the Shield
& Mills plant and needless to say there
is little of delay in getting the finished
product aboard the cars. Mr. Mills de
votes his whole attention to the manu
facturing business, while Mr. Shield di
vides his time between his wholesale of
fice and the plant.
was taken without any provisions for
another joint meeting. In Quincy, as
elsewhere, the cutters are contending for
a live-year agreement, while the manu
facturer seemed determined to have the
bill expire in 102i, or four years hence,
when the life of Barre's present bill
ceases. Cutters also iiwist on the elim
ination of the one and one-quarter inch
tool. To-night the union commit tee re
ports to the branch meeting for instruc
tion. It is expected that there will be
considerable agitation, as the divisional
lines within the cutters' organization are
drawn quite as sharply as the line of
cleavage in Barre in 1!1.. The Times'
informant stated this afternoon that
there is little promise of a settlement in
Quincy by to-morrow morning.
Committees representing the manufac
turers and the cutters in Westerly, R. I.,
met yesterday and as in Quincy the two
factions split on tiic question of when
the bill shall expire and the elimination
of the one and one-quarter inch tool.
Westerly cutters are anxious for a five
vear agreement, while the manufactur
ers ask that the tentative agreement
cease to be operative in 1!20. There is
a meeting of the cutters' branch this
evening and it is stated that there is a
possibility, although somewhat remote,
of acceding to the demands of the manu
facturers. In Milford, N. 1!., the manufacturers'
committee and the union committee
have held onlv one meeting. A sec
ond meeting will be held to-night, al
though a settlement is scarcely looked
for. People familiar with conditions in
New Hampshire look for Milford to fol
low Quincy. Fitzwilliam, X. IE, com
mittees met sometime ago and adjourned
and there are no immediate prospects of
a second meeting. The bill expires to-
night and the shops will probably be
eloed to-morrow. There is a scarcity
of work at Fitzwilliam. Keene. N. H.,
committees have not met recently, hut
the cutters were expected to meet this
afternoon or evening to act on a propo
sition submitted bv tho manufacturers.
The first meeting between the cutters'
and manufacturers' commit tews in Rock
port, Mass., was scheduled for this morn
ing, but no reort had been received
from Rovkport this afternoon. j
headquarters and when arraigned lieforo
Magistrate II. H. Scott m city court this
forenoon he waived examination and
went to the county jail in lieu of fur
nishing bail of $1,000. Because of tho
gravity of the allegation, the municipal
court was without jurisdiction to fix a
sentence, although the police allege that
the respondent made a full confession.
Check muffiiiiilHtions acgregatiilL' $fi()
THE QUINCY SITUATION.
"Some Slight Difficulties" Remain To Be
Settled.
PETIT JURORS NAMED
WOMAN BEATEN BY NEGROES.
id the Germans him abroad on a diplomatic mission. Mo-t he took the oath of allegiance to the . Later Two Suspects Were Caught After
II redoubt which 1 0f this time he has spent in the Critcd cmwn. explaining that he had lived and! Chase in Boston
ruins, and the Germans who raptured it
V are now encircled by the French line, it
i announced from Pari.
The weight of the French infantry
pressure on the northern front of Verdun
is intimated in the German official re
port, which declares that new massea of
French troops fialed in repeated at
tempts on the German line near Douau
ntont. hut IW-rlin makes no claim to-day
of further gains in that section.
To the east of Verdun, however, the
Germans have uhc-d the French to Fix.
five mile from the rity. On the nortb-
t. Iterlin announce- the lanwr'a troop
raptured the entire ( 1impn-u i!le ptfiin
n!i. H of P pp-r hill.
Thus the Ch m,B line of j-srtial ioic-tt
being connected with the revolut ionsry developed such an attachment for the i Boston. Feb. 23. T o net-roes at
plot for whic h Huerta and several th- eountrv and sympathy w ith its people ! night entered the Imme of Misa Helen M.
er were indicted, no direc t evidence that he desired to throw his moral weight j Crane, an invalid, in the Aubumdale
against him ever developed.
a com
For March Term of Washington County
Court.
The following petit jurors have been
drawn for the March term-of Washing
ton county court:
Barre City, Giant Lane. Harry l'attcr-sec-n
; Barre Town, J. W. Averill, John
Osborn; Berlin. James H. (Yozier. John
Holland; Cabot. P. K. Garney, S. A. Nel
son; Calais. A. M. Kohinson. B. E. San
ders; Duxbury, A. M. Snow; East Mont
pel'r. William P. Cooley. A. F. White:
Favston, S. II. Strong; Marshfield. Fred
Darling, Vern Slayton; Middlesex, Fred
Forecasting an agreement between the
Quincy granite manufacturers and cut
ters, the Qumcv (Mass.) Ixvlger last
evening had the following to my of the.
proposed bill and others:
'The manutaeturers have granted the
increase in wages the cutters demanded.
a minimum wage of $4 a day for eight
hours from March I, 101(1, to March 1,
019, and $4.25 from March 1, 1910, to
March 1. 4921.
"Definite information as to the few
:ght difficulties which remain is not
vailable but it is said that the principal
stumbling block is the length of time
the agreement is to run.
A great deal depends on what devel
ops within the next few days since other
nions have reached agreements but will
not sign them completely until they are
able to sign for the same term as the
cutters.
"The blacksmith have practically se
cured all that wits asked. Their new
bill is 50 cents sn hour or a $4 day mini
mum wage for a gang of 11 to 14 men;
all extra men at the rate of 31 '.. cents
an hour and each pieceman 33'i cents
an hour.
"The polishers, quarrymen and en
gineers settled several weeks ago with
the exception of the length of time the
agreement will hold."
WOMAN BORN IN BRADFORD.
Mrs. Ella M. Pike Died Yesterday in
Bellows Falls.
are charged against Kellogg, who is al
leged to have used tbo name of Murray
Cutler, a prominent East Montpelier
farmer, in carrying on his operations. A
very crude imitation of Mr. Cutler's sig
nature was affected by someone in fool
ing local merchants and in one instance
a I nuik. it is said, although Kellogg's un
successful attempt to have a bogus check
cashed in the Quarry Savings bunk led
indirectly to Ins detection. In another
instance, however. Kellogg is alleged to
have passed a check for $20 on a clothing
firm, whose business head took the paper
to a bank where Air. Cutler is well known
and was able to get his money on it.
All checks in tho possession of the au
thorities were dated, signed and indorsed
with a pencil.
It is alleged by Grand Juror William
Wishart. to whom complaint was entered
against Kellogg, that the respondent be
gan to work the check game on the after
noon of Wednesday, Feb. 23. Kellorrg
had been employed as a laborer at the
(hitler farm, where it is Supposed that
he obtained access to JMr. Cutler's check
book. Several loose blanks were torn
therefrom and with the paper in his pos
session Kellogg is alleged to have set
himself up in business after leaving tho
farm.
Presenting a check for $20 to Arioli ifc
Dente, North Main street clothiers, Kel
logg received a traveling bag, a sweater
and $13 in good United States money in
exchange. At the store of the American
Clothing Co. he swapped his home-made
money, this time a $15 check for n $1
hat and $14 in money. It is said that.'
Arioli & Dente took their check to tho
People's National bank and after endors
ing the paper, readily received their cash.
Attaches at the bank are quoted as say
ing that the signature looked pretty
much like Mr. Cutler's handwriting.
According to the allegation of the au
thorities Kellogg is next seen in the rola
of promoter, having decided to use his
17-year-ohl brother. Nelson Kellogg, a
a "fence." The younger Kellogg is said
to have taken a $15 check turned over
to him by his big brother to the Quarry
Savings liank. While the" elder KelIog
waited outside. Clerks at the Quarry
hank were suspicious of the chock and
when one of their number stepped asido
to get in touch with Mr. Cutler by tele
phone, young Kellogg stepped too, bub
tie stepped outside and the brothers wero
soon out of sight. That night, so Kel
logg is alleged to have told the police,
they left the city. The elder Kellogg
went to the home of a friend in a littlo
town just over the Canadian border and
was intent upon remaining with neigh
bors to the north until relatives here, it
is said, advised him to come back to)
Barre.
Kellogg is said to be thoroughly peni
tent and is anxious to ascertain tho
whereabouts, of bis brother. Having
waived examination in the local court,
his case is returnable at the March term
of Washington county court. The au
thorities are certain that Kellogg carried
his bad cheek operations beyond the
sphere of banks and stores and dis
closures made by the young man ar
said to have indicated that at leaxt onn
cheek was used in exchange for a conf
modity purveyed illicitly.
FUNERAL OF C. BLAKELEY.
Montpelier Man Was Shown Many Ma-,
sonic Honors.
The funeral of Collins Blakeley, thw
well known Montpelier druggist and
prominent Mason, who died Saturday,
was held from his late home, 171 Main
street. Montpelier. this afternoon. Rev.
I C. Carson, pasfor of the Church of
the Mcsiah. officiating. There was also
a .Masonic sctv ice in cnarge of Arthur
Bellows Falls. Feb. 29.-Mr. Ella M.
Pike, aged K3. wife of Lorcn W. Pike,
died earlv veterday morning in her Golbv, and the bc-arcrs were past mni-
home. 132 Atkinson street. he was niamlers of Mt. Zion commandery of
born in Bradford. She was a memlier of Montpelier. while the Knights Templar
the I'niversalist church. Tl'e funeral will P(Plj ag ,,-,,rt to Green Mount ceme
be held at 2 o'clock iq the home. Be-;tery.
i.A- li.wK.n.1 cho !,vive sister, i & . t t i c i.,..4. i
A. 11.11 Fred B Mdes; M-Hitpeber. John j Mr, Kmmm ,Wn of , nn, M, , , ,MrniJei, t1lo fllnprllI wer Mr.
P. Mack. John K L; Moretown. L v,,,,.,,. i.J Mr. C E. Harris of M.d ll. burv. C.
, T"'T; V Nort1h",".,d-! The funeral of Mis Ectella Goeu.:W. Hedge of Procter and Mr. and Mr.
, ""'I"'',:. r"'V, " ' ,0:' ,U,nho died Friday afternoon, took place : w. V. Mason of P. w let.
field. Addison K. ro. I.ucms l Knspn;;.. , .i r i it,irtr ,, ,
yesterday afterno-n at 4 SIX MONTHS IN JAIL.
o clock. Kev. . v iion i immanur
. ;srh.d street
vv aiisneiii. r.ina n. Mc.niter. tscr !
EXPLOSION KILLED TWO
and perf.n,i allegiance into the Jlr,t.h sect.or i w e,on , ami alter beating her Mi: "". '5 "tcrory. ' mir,.h. of she a mrmh r. off,-; sntf Bct posed on Charles W. Porter
...t ... r-" - - - - m"h. nm- - . -. -.-i, - -jnn jV mi taken lo urook-
The dit intruirhcd novelist, critic, and'panion. into tinconcK-icMinncc. robled tbjbury. Burt H. Nelon: Wori-eMer, Xfartin p,,ri.
playwright. born in New York. April ; hnn. 1 S. Herbert, t arm!! Wheeler.
May Have Been Injured tM"- I-"1- " father. Henry Janic. nr., J Ijit. r. after a lejj rlia- and fig'it. po-
St. Louis, a noted a writer on thi and re- jlice officers in the Back Bay ditri"t rap-j CARRIED OUT BY NURSES
.i-M's. mi- i"iiiiri i'i"iii.-i. if niiiin, . mini iwi, nirn mi-i-nn(r toe nerrip- i
women was lter t Icccitne ditinm!hed a a i tin of the rot.tier. Th nir.L .. . .
known to have b-rn killed and m.tir -n.. f.m;!- ... t . ,,. .!;. . 1. seventeen rauenis scaped names
And 100
St. Irmi. Feb. 2'-. T
In
peron injur!, seven rriuustr. wh.n 'of'an ample fortune, the f mn Ution f 'ruilt
five of d;.nam:te store! in a small l w-ckh w laid bv th noveliM grand- i 1 be v gave their r.amr a AlVrt
building for ue in sewer eor,tnj tion ' fvt! ,t. of V t. h jrih den!. w ho ml- NaunVr an-l I rjnk Svcnv. hrM-in
work. .!.leJ late jH.f.!j at Mp- fgratfi from Utcr n after the Kevo- jested thst the .nr. w'l.,1, iri!y
wo..!, a nibwrU. Thirty boot rif d--1 lutictvarr wsr an t l- ir. a successful ' injured, would r,ot suffer anr fatal f-Bol-lJ.
4 nrrciaBt at A'.Uav, N. Y. ierta.
riymonth, N. H, Hospital.
i Plymouth, V it.. Feb. 2.- 'vi ratecn
jpttc-nt of Vtf I milv 1'aJ.h Mcm'-r l
l.of t! were carried mit ! v ti.e nur-c-c
wlwa fire ci-t rot ei the hu-Mirs ear'v
lh. monr.. Nt cd u,(uieJ,
VERMONT EUSINESS TROUBLES.
for Embenling.
Burl. niton. Feb. 2'.- l.arle W. por
ter, who v inde-tc-d at the present
term of I nited Mate court for the cl.-
G F. Ceruttl, Scoth Ryejate Granite ;,r,rt ' '"tnont on the l,rSe ot h-
. , . ., j ma rnAffh-'l C'vernment un ) fron
Manufacturer, Fails. , ... . , , ,, . .
' 1 1,- v.tot!fe at Gin; Ibail. where be wa
KiiGnnd. Feb. 2 G. F. t eriitii of . rtifG r. in-! v!.o p!.-.!i ) pustty t
otith liyeeate. srande tntter. ba tied j the in.i:t ev nt . a lie fore the ,ourt
ictilN.n in Iwekruit v with t ek !"., . i !o and '-ni rnl lv .lni-
V I'Ut) o' :l.e I mled -tjite , .-n: - . He Ilii'ir I It. !' ! nir , r""nt '
). Labilities of !. !., and aet I'.nl'ie Wi.litun icinl v .il at M-'bt
jtl.cr.
flV9.4?, ita ?:.""J !cii.-J eieffit,
