.C
'jt'f iff., 1/
VOL. 23. NO. 23.
Head of Federation
Talks to f*1
Prepr?**
WASHINGTON, Jan. 20—Ade­
quate preparedness for national de
fens© was advocated here by Samuel
Gompers, president of the American
Federation of .Labor, in a speech be­
fore the session of the annual conven­
tion of the National Civic federation,
devoted to that subject Tuesday.
While he insisted that military or­
ganizations must be democratic and
the nation must be safeguarded
against the evils of militarism, Mr.
Gompers declared that "America's
own freedom had been achieved by
resistance to tyranny and the pacifists
failed to understand that quality of
the human race which made men
willing to risk their all for an ideal.
Will Fight for Scrap of Paper.
"Men worthy of the name," he said,
"will fight even for a 'scrap of paper/
when that paper represents ideals of
human justice and freedom. There is
little progress made in the affairs of
the world in which resistance of
others is not involved. Though we
may realize the brutality of war,
though we may know the value of
life, yet we know equally well what
would be the effects upon the lives
and the minds of men who would lose
their rights, who would accept denial
of justice rather than hazard their
physical safety. The progress of all
the ages has come as the result of
protests against wrongs and existing
conditions and through asertions of
rights and effective demands for jus­
tice. Our own freedom and republi­
can form of government have been
achieved by resistance to tyranny and
insistence upon rights. Freedom and
democracy dare not be synonymous
with weakness.
Opinions Modified.
"Aa the result of the European war,
there is hardly a citizen who has not,
to some degree, modified- his ..opinions
about preparedness and national de­
fense. The belief prevails that there
must be some policy of preparedness
and national defense, although there
Is wide divergence as to what policies
ought to be adopted.
"National preparedness involves
power to co-ordinate and to utilize
national forces and national re­
sources. War, as it is waged today,
is not determined merely by the men
on the battlefield, but also by the mo­
bilization of natural resources, na­
tional industries and commerce. The
real problem is the organization of
the material forces and resources of
the country, the co-ordination of
these in the furtherance of a definite
defensive military policy."
Principles Must Be Regarded.
"Whatever plan may be adopted,"
said Mr. Gompers, explaining the atti­
tude of labor, "the organized labor
movement of America demands that
certain fundamental principles must
be regarded. All policies and plans
for national defnse must be deter­
mined by representatives of all the
people. The organized labor move­
ment, which is the -only means for
expressing the will and the desires of
the great masses of our citizenship,
asserts its rights to representation in
all committees, commissions or bodies
that decide upon military defense.
"The labor movement demands
democracy in all things, including
military organizations and instituions
of the country. It holds that its poli­
cies of self-defense are best safe­
guarded when there is equal oppor­
tunity for all to become members of
whatever organizations and institu­
tions, whether military or otherwise,
exist throughout the country. Not
only must entrance to all institutions
be freely and equally accorded to all,
but the military must be democrati­
cally organized, democratically offi-
Continued on Page 2.
"Anything to beat Wilson," is the
Slogan of some Republicans in Con­
gress who are employing their time
and the people's money chiefly in an
endeavor to ?lig up something that
will serve as an issue to go before the
people during the coming national
election.
"Anything to get back to the pie
counter," is the real motive behind
the attacks of these worthy states­
men, whose value as public servants
may be measured by the frequency,
regardless of the foundation, of their
flings at the accomplishments of the
Wilson administration.
Thier^ Favorite Subject.
The favorite subject of attack by
the Republican politicians is the tar­
iff. The Democratic tariff is respon­
sible for the peskiness of the weather,
the course of the stars and so on ad
Infinitum, say the Republicans.
,* *$*
It is not so difficult a task to plant
new truths as to root out old errors,
for there is this paradox in men: they
run after that which Is new, bat are
prejudiced in favor of that which is
old.
TQDI
Labor
«Mb
MUST GUARD AGAINST
EVIL OF MILITARISM
Whatever Is Done Labor Should
Be Represented and Given
Voice In Plans.
'fv'
Youngstown Steel Chieftian Goes
to New York to Meet
Rockefeller Bankers.
BIG «EW STEEL MOST
LIKELY TO BE FORMED
Grand Jury Still Investigating
Cause of Riot—Young John
D. Defends Father.
NEW YORK Jan. 20.—While the
10,000 workers who operate the plant
of the Youngstown Sheet and Tube
company bent over their tasks in the
big plant yesterday, James A. Camp­
bell, president of the company, came
to New York to have a talk with
Frank A. Vanderlip, president of
the National City bank.
Mr. Campbell, who was a witness
before the Mahoning county Grand
Jury in Youngstown, left almost im­
mediately after the Grand Jury fin­
ished with him, and came to this
city. His business here was to con­
fer with a group of bankers about
the proposed merger of the Youngs­
town Sheet and Tube company, the
Cambria Steel company and the
Lackawana Steel company.
Wall Street understands that the
merger will go through in a few days.
If it does there will be gnashing of
teeth in Youngstown. The stock hold­
ers there are hanging onto their cer
titflcates as tight as they can. They
can't be convinced that their divi­
dends will be as safe and as fat after
the merger is formed.
Officials Approve Merger.
It is said that the Youngstown com­
pany has given its official approval to
the merger plans, but this much is
sure: If that has been done there
are a lot of stockholders that will be
clamoring for an explanation—and if
it isn't a pretty clear sort of an ex­
planation there will be wild doings
among the little band of smug profit­
eers in that littel city of steel and
rotten booze.
Mr. Campbell's trip to this city,
with the announced purpose of con
Contbraed on Page 2.
Politicians and Bankers Enow the
Brotherhoods Have Great Pow­
er Behind Agitation.
WASHINGTON, Jan. 20.—The big­
gest single fact in the labor world
that is causing uneasiness among the.
capitalistic interests in Washington
is the movement for the eight-hour
day on the railroads. The politicians
and the bankers know that the rail­
road workers are deadly in earnest.
They know that together with their
economic power, springing from their
industrial organization, they have
great political power.
At this writing the brotherhoods
are threatening the railroads with a
piece of radical safety legislation un­
less the carriers will meet their de­
mands outside of Congress.
An examination of the reports of
76 Western railroads to the Inter­
state Commerce Commission showed
that during the 18 months from July
1, 1912, to December 31, 1913, there
were 49,286 cases where engineers
and firemen worked for a continuous
period of 16 hours or longer, and
over 16,000 cases where they worked
for a continuous period .of f8 hours
or more.
The extraordinary situation is thus
presented of employing highly skilled
men in places of great public respon­
sibility under conditions which were
unmistakably condemned by the Fed­
eral government, the. unions, and by
representatives of employers for even
the most unskilled and least respon­
sible workers in the. iron and steel
industry.
Here is the argument Of the im­
maculate followers of Hamilton:
The falling off in public revenues is
due to the Democratic tariff, but all
the prosperity that now prevails is
due to the European war.
According to their easy logic It
could not be possible, nay, not for a
moment, that the falling off irt the
public revenues is attributable to the
unsettled conditions in Europe, and,
anyway, it is much handier to lay the
responsibility at the door of the
Democratic administration and, more­
over, is in keeping with established
Republican party custom.
Old Time Argument.
Senator Penrose of Pennsylvania is.
one of the chief characters in this
comedy.' The gentleman from Penn­
sylvania does not honor the Senate by
his presence except on very rare occa­
sions.
But' recently he took occasion to
deliver a' stereotyped speech on the
state of the treasury. It jwas the old
Republican argument 'in favor of a
high protective tariff. He "pointed
-'^v
THE
'•Ha «Jik«IHMBkadfli
The city commissioners jpropose to take their, owp
time to deliberate over the proposed ordinance to grant
a franchise to the Western Terminal Railway company
in consideration for which it proposes,, in the uncertain
future, to build a belt line around Duluth.
There is no doubt but on such a big proposition the
council will act in the best interests of the city. It will
require a four-fifths vote to pass the ordinance. It will
take* only the votes of two commissioners to defeat it.
When the Wisconsin Central railway, now the Soo,
franchise was pending before the city council it required
several months of close study, and frequent conferences,
to work out a satisfactory ordinance, during which time
prominent citizens were declaring that thealdermen were
asking too much from the railroad company. Who is
there will say now that the aldermen were too exacting?
Duluth needs a belt line railroad more than it needs
anything else, and it is encouraging to note that there
are men who recognize this need. But we must never
be deceived again by giving away our streets to a cor­
poration which may or may not carry out its promises to
the city. Let us see, was it not James J. Hill who
induced the city council a number of years ago to give
him a franchise for almost the same purpose this com­
pany is seeking one? We had great hopes then for the
future of Duluth, as we have now, but all Mr. Hill eve£
did for Duluth was to take away he never gave anything
back.
So in addition to the many safeguards which must
be thrown around a railroad franchise we should know
something more about the corporation that is seeking
it. We do not care so much about the corporation as
we do about the men who are interested in it.
should know whether or not they have the ability- to
carry out the purposes for which a franchise is granted.
It Is too late in the day to grant a franchise to
promoters who will use it as so much merchandise to
sell to railroad builders. If any money is to be paid for
a franchise it should be given to the people who d#ed^
away their streets in the hope that the construction of
a railroad will help to build the city. It was the custom
once to deal only with brokers and promoters, but that
"fiepe ,Big B«ilding Will Be
Saved For Great
Social Center.
Duluth workingmen, disappointed
'because the city commissioners gave
no heed to their resolutions protest­
ing against the sale of the Armory,
have decided as citizens to exercise
their right under the city charter to
appeal from the judgment of the com­
missioners to that of the people. Pe­
titions are now in circulation for a
referendum election on the Armory
ordinance.
The delegates .of the Federated
Trades and Labor Assembly delib­
erated for more than two hours be­
fore deciding to request the circula­
tion of petitions for the referendum,
some of the delegates fearing that a
fight of this kind would make unnec
cessary enemies for organized labor.
Union men have nothing against the
Shriners.' Indeed, many workingmen
are members of this splendid organi­
zation. So because of that .friendly
feeling it was for a time thought' that
the attitude of organized labor would
be misunderstood.
For AU the People.
However, when it was brought out
in debate that by saving the Armory
for public use it would benefit all of
the people of Duluth and particularly
the people of the working classes, the
delegates deemed it their duty, what­
ever the consequences, to fight to the
last ditch for the greater good. Their
slogan is "Save the Armory for the
people."
Speeches were made by Delegates
Henry Pereault, John E. Jensen, A.
G. Catlin, A. A. Barr and J. G.
O'Neill. W. E. McEwen, Editor of
The Labor World, Senator Richard
Jones and former alderman P. G.
Phillips, who were in attendance at
the meeting of the Assembly upon in-
"ANYTHING TO BEAT WILSON" IS SLOGAN Of OLD
with pride" to the 18 years of extra­
ordinary prosperity under protective
legislation, and "viewed with alarm"
the economic doctrines of free trade.
It was his conservative and abso­
lute conviction that were it not for
the war in Europe we would have the
blackest times in the history of the
Republic. "We would have witnessed
poverty and starvation all over the
country, bread riots, the army of the
United States out to preserve order
and universal distress and misery, in­
stead of the war in Europe being the
cause of such a condition, it has been
the cause of the alleviation of a con­
dition too dreadful for any lover of
this" country to desire to contem­
plate,"' and so on in the same minor
key does the gentleman from Penn­
sylvania give vent to his injured feel­
ings.
a
They Are Never Happy.
Is it any wonder that Senator Gore,
replying to Penrose, said that Penrose
is never sd happy as when he is mis­
erable?
But the national election is ap­
proaching and as jve said at the be­
FOE SOCIAL JUSTICE. ECONOMIC REFORM AND POLITICAL PROGRESS.
DUUJTU AND SUPERIOR, JANUARY 22,1916.
We
DULUTH WORKING MEN START REFERENDOM
HaveNothi^^MstShrin
ers, But Believe People
Should Keep Armory.
vitation, also participated in the dis­
cussion, after which by an enthusias­
tic vote it was decided to request
delegates to ciculate petitions for the
referendum election.
There was no division among the
.delegates about the question of sav­
ing the Armory for the people. Ojily
two of them voiced any objections to
placing the Assembly on record.. One
member feared that union labor's ac­
tivity in the referendum election
would jeopardize the proposed Labor
Forward Movement. The other dele­
gate argued that unnecessary enemies
would be made by the contest. Each
delegate took a petition and as The
Labor World goes to press 12 peti­
tions have been filed a,t the office
containing approximately 900 names.
People Sign Readily.
It will require 1322 names to call
a referendum election. It is believed
that 2,000 signatures will be secured.
As the citizens who are circulating
the petition are contributing their
services without pri 3, even 1,500
names would be a large number.
Every citizen who hasfiled his pe­
tition declared that if he had the
time he could have obtained several
CHANGE OF VENUE FOR
MINERS IS WANTED
TRINIDAD, Col., Jan. 20.—Judge
Cavender of Leadville has sustained
attorneys for the Mine Workers'
union, that miners indicted on
charges growing out of the recent
strike should be tried elsewhere. The
court declared that conditions exist­
ing in this county made a change of
venue justifiable.
-V
ginning, the Republican leaders are
in sore need of campaign material.
Mr. Penrose is ohe of the Warwicks
of Republicanism He is, one of the
official spokesmen of those great in­
dustrial concerns, which reciprbcate
favors with the Republican party! and
right here we are moved to quote
Scripture.
Somewhere in the Good Boo.k there
is a proverb like this:
"The ox knoweth his owner and the
ass his master's crib."'
During the first ten monthp of the
Underwood Act, from Oct. 1, 1913, to
Aug. 1, i914, when the European war
broke out, the Underwood Act ren­
dered unto the treasury $306,800,000.
•Falling Off Was World Wide
'During the ten months from,Oct. 1,
1912, until Aug. 1. 1913, the Payne
Aldrich law, this "paragon of Re­
publican.. finesse,*' turned into the
treasury $296,700,000, or $10,000,000
less than the Underwood 'measure.
So much for.the "failure" of the
Democratic tariff law to raise reve­
nue.
If-the falling off in revenues since
4
day is passed. It is the real men who will build the
railroad, and only with themf the city should deal.
This is Duluth's last railroad chance ir a mistake
is made how all will be lost, and the city will remain
a staid and fixed way-station—just as ordinary distribut­
ing point "where rail and waters meet." And so It
will remain without hope of a future. The commission­
ers do well in recognizing this fact early in the proceed­
ings.
It will liot do to bottle up the city with a franchise
that will give its owners five years to start to build, for
in the meantime other railroad men may come in who
mean business and the city will be bound hand and foot.
It would be unfortunate to have such a situation arise.
If the owners of the Western Terminal Railroad
company mean business and are in earnest about actually
building a belt line railroad, then in return for the
franchise they are seeking they should be required to
give a substantial bond to the city, and if they fail to
build a railroad within the time specified in the grant
they should indemnify the city and forfeit the franchise,
but in no case should this time be extended to five years.
It is altogether too long.
Of course it would be much better if the city was
in a position to build the belt line, and we do not say
this solely because we are committed to public owner­
ship, but a city-owned belt line would mean switching
charges at cost to manufacturers and others who re­
quire such service. That is a mighty important factor
in asking industries to-locate in Duluth.
It is not important that we have a belt of steel
circling the city, save that it may pave the way for
industrial development, but it is important that we have
sufficient control over a belt line to compel good service
at reasonable rates, and no corporation can give the
latter as cheaply as the city can give it.
So while we may not have a city-owned belt line
just now, the city's right to. ultimately own it should
be made secure. To fully protect the rights of the city
the commissioners would do well to take counsel with
those^ citizens who have had previous experience in pro­
tecting the city in franchise grants.
and Requisite Nuintier Is
About Secured.
times the number of names. If a
sufficient number of volunteers were
out with petitions the names of more,
than one-half the legal voters in Du­
luth could be secured.
Every day gives new evidence that
the great majority of Duluth people
are opposed to the sale of the Ar­
mory. While many of them are
against selling the Armory for busi­
ness reasons, the great number want
it kept for a public forum *nd social
center. It is gratifying to note how
many public uses to which the people
believe the Armory can be put. Pub­
lic baths and a public gymnasium
hive a great many advocates, a pub­
lic reading and club room is also
strongly favored. One enthusiast be­
lieves that space should be given for
teaching classes of housewives in
domestic science.
Circulate False Stories.
The enemies of Union labor's posi­
tion are already circulating false re­
ports to the effect that organized
labor wants the building kept for a
union labor hall where all local trade
unions and labor assemblies may
hold their meetings. The members
of organized labor do not want the
Armory for such a purpose. They
are prefectly willing to pay hall rent,
as they have done in the past, until
such time as they can have their
own building, which they expect to
construct with their own
?money.
They want the building for all the
people and not for any faction or set
of people. The fight th-y are. mak­
ing to save the Armory will benefit
every citizen of Duluth. It is not in
the interest of any particular Class.
What better patriotism can any
body of citizens indulge?
the beginning of the European war
were confined to America Alone there
might be some foundation for the
claim of the Republicans that the ad­
ministration policies were alone' re­
sponsible.
Our revenues in Augst, 1913, were
$30,000,0^0. In August, 1914, the first
month of the war they fell to
$19,000,000, a decline of 37 per cent.
But how has the war affected other
countries?
In the port of Buenos Aires, Argen­
tina, there has been a decline of 50
per cent* Moreover, this is typical of
that entire country.
Chile Suffered Also.
Was that falling off due to the en­
actment of the Underwood bill in the
United. States? Was it due to some
local Underwood' Act in the republic
of Argentina? These ,are the, perti­
nent questions put 'by Senator Gore,
and which ate still unanswered by
the Republicans.
During, the months of August and
September, 1913, the customs reve­
nues' of Chile amounted to $12,
400,000. During the months of Aug­
1
MINNESOTA-!
uiMinotfm
nwrnpni^wp"
•0OCTY.
Congressman David J. Lewis
Urges Postalization of Tele­
graph and Telephone.
TALK OVER TELEPHONE
COSTS 6 MILLS A MILE
'Equal Rights to All" Is Great
Formula of Nineteenth Cen­
tury, Not Paternalism.
WASHINGTON, Jan. 20.—Repre­
sentative David J. Lewis, of Mary­
land, the house authority on parcel
post an$ telegraph and telephone
rates delivered a speech last week in
the House of Representatives in which
he reiterated his arguments for gov­
ernment ownership of the telegraph
and telephone systems of the coun­
try, and all other means of communi­
cation.
He urged that these agencies bte
condemned and purchased by the
government and operated as a part
of the postoffice department.
"It costs the American as much to
ship his long-distance conversation
fiver the wires, mile for mile, as it
costs him to ship a ton of freight
over the rails," said Lewis. "The
railroads get on the average seven
mills a 'mile for moving a ton of
freight. The telephone company
charges, six mills a mile for carry­
ing a three-minute conversation. We
may realize how weighty our con­
versations sometimes are. They weigh
about a ton on the long distance
wires."
Parcel Post Vs. Express.
Lewis said the benefits derived by
the public from the parcel post sys­
tem would be duplicated by the
"postalization" of the telegraph and
telephone systems.
"In 1912, the year before the par­
cel post, the express companies, car­
ried 31*7,000,000 packages. That rep­
resented their total traffic for the
year. It was about thre packages
per capita, for which the express
compianies received an average rate
of 50 cents'per package.
"In 1913, these companies carried
Continued on Page 2.
Officials of National Association
of Manufacturers Oppose
Federal Bill.
WASHINGTON, Jan. 20.—"I'm go­
ing to send my children to the North
Carolina cotton mills instead of keep­
ing them in school," was the sar­
castic declaration of a trade union
official, after listening to arguments
by attorneys and manufacturers be­
fore the house committee on labor
in opposition to the Keating-Owen
anti-child labor bill.
Attorney James Emery, whose con­
nection with manufacturers' associa­
tions is well known, assured the
committee he was against child la­
bor. He did not approve of it, but—
This particular bill is unconstitu­
tional and would never, never, be
sustained by the courts.
A delegation of North Carolina
manufacturers also expressed their
disapproval of the bill. Their main
objection was the ruin it would cause
by putting children on the streets
and debar them from enjoying the
happy life of a cotton mill worker.
The manufacturers deplored the lack
of educational facilities in their
state, which should pass a compul­
sory school law. Until that time,
saith the manufacturers, It Is best to
keep the children in the mills, where
their interests are carefully looked
after.
The Keating-Owen bill debaro
from interstate commerce all child
labor products.
ust and September, 1914, the first two
months of the European war, they de­
clined to $8,300,000, a falling off of
33 per cent.
Again Senator Gore ask« the Re­
publicans if this was due to the Un
erdwood Act in the. United States or
if it was not due to the European
war.
During the months of August and
September, 1914, the first two months
of the war the revenues in the United
States declined to $37,400,000, a de­
cline of 3 5 per cent in this country^
and a decline of 33 per cent' in Chile.
Brazil Has Same Story.
In Uruguay the falling off amounts
to 31 per cent.
Brazil tells the same story. After
the outbreak of the European war the
revenues in that country dwindled to
$16,500,000, a shrinkage of 37 per
cent.
The percentages are significant.. Is
it strange that these' declines in both
countries are to be attributed to an
interaational, world-wide cause,
rather than to the enactment of the
UnderWood" law?
ppi§is*fw? mwn spy?
'""j?
r0*k
A« lone *s mankino shall continue
to bestow more liberal' applause on
their destroyers than on their beae
ffcetors, the thirst of military glory
will ever be the vice of exalted
'Characters.
Trials Will Determine Whether
Foreign Army Service. Will
Make Them Aliens.
The department of labor believes
that George Sylvester Viereck, editor
of the Fatherland, had a mistaken
notion of its jurisdiction when he
complained to the house committee'
on foreign affairs that Secretary of
Labor Wilson had ruled that Ameri­
cans may enlist in the armies of the
belligerents in this war, take the oath
of' allegiance to a foreign govern­
ment, and then return to'this coun
try and be admitted without ques­
tion.
What the secretary did was to-in­
struct immigration agents on the Ca­
nadian border that they are not to
bar out Americans returning home
soley on the ground that they took
the oath of allegiance'when enlisting
in Canadian forces. The secretary
has jurisdiction over the. bureau of
immigration, but he does not have
jurisdiction to. determine whether a
man born in this country is an
American citizen or not, and so he
prefers to allow the man to enter
and let the courts pass on his status.
The Saswell Case.
The secretary's ruling, which was
made Oct. 9, 1915, was in response
to the following case, and should be
interpreted in the light of it:
Frank Caswell, a native --born
American citizen, who happened to 1
be in Canada when the war* broke
out, enlisted in the Canadian army.
He took the customary military oath
of allegiance. He did not renounce
Our immigration laws provide that
alien contract labor is to be forbldr
den entry to the United States. If
Caswell had actually lost his Ameri­
can citizenship he would not l^e en­
titled to enter this country again be-'
cause he would come in as a contract
laborer. But, of course, the prohi
bition could not be raised against
him if he were still an American
citizen.
When his appeal came to the de­
partment of labor, Secretary Wilson
simply ruled that he would not un
dertake to say whether by taking the
qualified oath of allegiance to the
king of England, Caswell had for
feited his American citizenship. So
he directed that Caswell be permitted
to enter and then gave the instruc­
tion complained of, for such cases
were constantly rising. Editor Vie
reck of The Fatherland printed, how­
ever, only half of the order. He did
not print the first half, which indi­
cated that it was called forth es­
pecially by the Caswell case.
May Make Test Case.
There will be plenty of time.-in
which a test case can be made. Cas­
well may be arrested at any time
within three years and made to show
his right to be in this country, on
pain of being deported if he fails.
Secretary Wilson is willing that any­
one swear out a warrant for his ar­
rest, so that the case may be brought
before the court.
''Even a Democratic tariff measure
has aright to a fair trial," adds Sena­
tor Gore.
"May we not appeal to Republican
senators to discontinue this idle, this
unfounded, impeachment of the Un­
derwood tariff, measure, when,
judged in the light of history and
truth, it not only is not a failure but
it has- no superior in the history Of
the fiscal legislation of the republic.'^
They Can't Be Fair.
But Senator Gore's appeal to thf
Republicans for fairness will go un«.
1
W
TWO CENTS.
Answers Criticism of German Ed-'
itor Relative to Admission
of Foreign Soldiers
NATIVE-BORN RETURN
FROM BATTLEFIELDS
1
his American citizenship. He did
not thereby acquire a Canadian citi­
zenship. It would take a special act
of parliament to give him that.
Whether Caswell went to the Euro­
pean front or not the department
does not know. But it happened that
some time ago he was offered a job
in Detroit, and he accepted it fa
Canada, and came, hpipe to take it,
"Se tW hord4r»^
Contract Labor Law.
1
On the broad question of the case«
Prof. A. S. Hershey, in his work on
International Law, has this to say:^
"Contrary to the practice in some
countries, foreign military or naval
service^ or the acceptance of a public.
office in a foreign country do not in
themselves affect expatriation in the
view of the United States."
un ..'5
heeded. The ^attempts to discredit th^ ~f,
administration will continue. Misrep*
resentation will go on. There will be
more idle clap-trap from Republican
leaders in Congress who. long, fer thf
place and power they lost nearly foui
years 'ago. -ff-jj
"Anything to beat Wilson." t'isCy^fo
Anything to get back to the pie*
counter! We have said that Penrose
and his ilk are the spokesmen for infi'v
terests that reciprocate favors witl/^
the Grand Old Party. And when
have said this, we have said it all.
