- " c
Urtgr
NIGHT
EXTRA
NIGHT
EXTRA
ituen
c
FvOL.n-NO. 1J2
rniliADELPIIIA, SATURDAY, JAN U A It V 22, 15)t(.
I'orTtiioiiT. ldlrt nr tiik rent 10 Lfpoh. Compant
PRICE ONE OE2TT
t g-vr-
"" '
IftEW MONTENEGRIN CHIEF
LEADS ARMY TO VICTORY;
SLAVS ATTACK ERZERUM
r
t
Martinovitch, Defeats Two Austrian
Corps Leads Army Revolt Which
f Halts Peace Parley Grand
Duke Wins in Caucasus
fc The Montenegrins, under General Mnrtinovitch, their new chief, have
repulsed tho Austrians in severe fiRhtlnK at Hornnc, on the Lim River, ac
cording to ndvlces from Rome. General Mnrtinovitch defeated an attempt
to cnclfclo his rifrht wintr, cuttinp off his retreat upon Scutari, and annihilated
jui Austrian detachment.
King Nicholas of Montenegro has intrusted the entire command of his
?rmy to General Mnrtinovitch.
It has hcen common talk in Allied capitals thnt General Mnrtinovitch
led the Montenegrin soldiery in a successful revolt ngainst the King's attempt
to make peace with Austria. The populace is hailing him as the "Savior
bf tho Black Mountain" nij1 of tho national honor in preventing a "betrayal
if the Allies." ,
, Austria, meanwhile, is pressing an offensive against Montenegro and
Albania, to clinch tho victory already won.
Tho Grand Duko Nicholns' Caucasus army has begun tho assault on the
filter defenses of Erzcrum, principal city of Turkish Armenia, according to
iilspatchcs received from Pctrograd. The city is surrounded by modern forti
fications and no easy victory ,is expected by the military authorities.
I The lull on the Czcrnowitz front continues. General IvanofT is strength
w his positions around Raranszc, where Austrian counter-attacks aro
expected
JlONTENEfllUNS INFLICT
HEAVY DEFEAT ON TEUTONS
now-:.
.Inn. 22.
now under
... . .. linln nrmv
ijionienrft." ..-.. .!. i, no
.mmnnd of Gonorni .Mrumii;. ......
Slsterc.1 a sever- detent to two Aus
fl ilunearlnn corp ut Hcrnnc. It wan
S'dX nnnounceJ There today The Aus
WW troop" have received reinforcements,
towwer. nn.l the Montenrgr In forces may
lv to retire toward Albania.
MThV Montenegrin leaders nelcrlcrt
Ene as the spot at which to ma lie their
t"il stand. Tho Austro-Hungnrlnn as
MUlt began as soon as Montenegro had
wlected the peace terms offered by Aus
1.14. From tho heights about Ilerano the
Montenegrins poured a destructive lire
MM i the, Austrians, whoso losses aro said
to, have peen enormous.
.NEW CHIEF IN COMMAND.
i'Feaee negotiations between Austria nnd
Montenegro have been broken oft owing
to tha Intervention of Ocncrnl Martlno
Tttch. loader of tho antl-Austrlan party
la'llonUnegro, who assumed command
il'ths troops. Including tho bcrblnn de
tichmtnts aiding tho Montenegrins, ftnd
ePBOKd their disarmament, thus avert
ing what' Is hero called tho betrayal of
the Allfca! by King Nicholas.
ti, antir nnnnl.itlon halls General,
yttrtlMvttcli as the dcUvorcr of Monto-
tsecro. A compieio cxuuun iii .
country 1 expected. All oftnrts aro now
Wnr concentrated on tho defcuso of
WUrl.
jTh negotiations wero held In abeyance
after they wero entered upon, owing to
Klnj Nicholas1 Insistence on Montene
gro's neutrality and hla refusal to co
pMte In tho restoration of Prince Wil
tf Wled as Mpret of Albania. Meanwhile
tka iltuatlon was further complicated by
th refusal of tho Austrian and German
OoVemmentH to allow tho Bulgnrliins to
occupy Durazzo. which was destined to
l the Mpret's capital, nlthouBh it Is in
iktently rumored here that It had all been
previously promised to them.
i AUSTRIA ARMS ALBANIANS.
Ulleanwhlle tho Austrians nre nrmlnB
tfc Albanians, who aro destined to attack
Durazzo Under the leadership of Prince
William of Wled. I'rlnco Willlnm Is oil
.thaway to Cettlnjo from Prlzrcnd Ho Is
Dent upon reconquering Alo-nia ami is
amply supplied with money, which ho Is
cattcrlng broadcast, thereby cugmentlng
w number of his followers.
TAll the women members of tho Mon
tenegrin royal family aro now In Italy.
iat are proceeding to Lyons, France,
hero tho Montenegrin government will
eitabllshed.
Queen Mllena and Princesses Vera and
Ifitalle passed tho night In Rome, but
eft this morning for Lyons. Queen He!-
E Continued on I'axe l'otir. Column Four
PBUSEN TO NAME APOTHECARY
))lretor Gets List of Four Persons
& Eligible for Post
An eligible list of four names for the
tMltlon of first assistant apothecary. De-
janment, of Health and Charities, was
t4ay forwarded to Director Krusen by
i Civil Bervlce Commission.
Tha persons eligible for the position.
yiicn, carries a salary of J500, nre Fannie
nusaoaum, 80S North 7th street; Abra-
weiner, zia Monroe street; Sara
Chman. 1321 South Leithirow street.
Jack I. Lehrman. 920 Wolf street.
IXlJli VYiUilTilJlJJX
tVVhen We frnt tfiln1lnt nhnnt wnttipr
,-wuiona today In preparation for wrlt-
raethlng about tliem we go so mad
tJJ decided to write nothing at all about
i uiu. tiiir n.. v. , , A..
lJ-.v'r that ls and notlclnK the lilatus,
iaaa our attention to the fact that bo-
JJUJ a dlty may he unpleasant is no
S" why it is not a duty Just tho same.
WMIng too proud to Jlght about it and
"nfla the bnsn Inn much tn lnV nop
Own Dart In ti .. , .in
i, --.... .,,a mmier iicrt:, wc uiu iii-
l" W the space as usual. Now there
iwj between and B2 things bne could
' wui,tne weather today, but wo have
"H OH Onft nf (ham t.n ........ , U .. olfiin.
.. ..v... billow auino litu .-
!n.np with a nicety, The weather today
Fine and imprisonment!
FORECAST
fFor Philadelphia and- vicinitn
JtettUd toniaht. ruitk mild te.mnera.
?'8i Sunday fair and somewhat
WjMer; fresh, southwest to northwest
Winds.
ffor details see pape 13.
tOT AND FOUND
U,JiSS..,Wui,S ! Pl?P Trut C'smrfby. In
Won T?S.hii!' Uen ma,le t0 f" Marchaiua
tvcl,Hyu!ulpy tor the luaucQ o a
Jb"lUl-te ll, lll.la lh.rA.tf
f?nl7h!ui?ib,,r.at UroaJ s' Theatre Krl
h.'. b.11j. itCll lost luiuilar imff hat an.
Vi iin " , 10,t .P"uer pun; box ami
oi imTi.. Vxi. ipinit euamtij.
tlroaa st Station.
HeMurd,
Cfbf Lost una round Ad on I'aae 15
phe Great New
fiRAXI) DUKE NICHOLAS
POUNDS BKZKUUJI OUTWORKS
LONDON. Jan. 12.
Grand Duke Nicholns' Russian troops,
approaching the Turkish fortress of Kr
zerum, have attacked the outnr vorks,
nccoidlng to Petrograil advices received
todoy. The aro taking up artillery, with
which to batter down tho strong forts
immediately protecting the city, tho cap
ture of which will open the way to an
extensive Invnslnn of Asia Minor, relieve
tho pressure on tho Hrltlih forces In
Mesopotamia, and Inaugurate nn entirely
new phnse of tho war.
Hy smnshlng the Turkish front In tho
Caucasus, Grand Duke Nicholas hns won
not only n great military success, but
also a personal triumph. Removed from
command of the Russlnn army ho was
sent to the Caucasus, tho court cabal
which dictated his removal believing that
the Caucasus thentro would never becomo
nn Important zone of operations.
On the contrary, however, tho shifting
fortunes of war hnve made the lighting
In Asia of tho greatest Importance. It
Is In tho Cnucusus and Mesopotamia
that tho next vital conflict will occur.
Victory for tho Grand Duke may result
In his ultlmato return to supremo com
mand In Russln.
Tho Russian successes In the Caucasus
and tho advanco of General Aylme'r's
Hrltlsh force to tho relief of Kut Kl
Annua caused enthusiasm hern today,
British military experts for tho first time
expressed a belief that the army sur
rounded at Kut Kl Allium would bo
saved. That It ivn In n perilous position
had been Bencrally recognized.
The advance of tho Russians will un
questionably mako It necessary for the
Turks to relnforeo their army In the
CnucaHUH. To do this tho Ottoman Gov
ernment must draw upon Its Mcbopo
tamla troops, thus wcaklng their front
and giving the Ilritlsh an opportunity
to advance upon ilngdad.
GAS EXPLOSION ROCKS
DOWNTOWN AND HURLS
RESIDENTS FROM BED
Manhole Covers Blown Into
Air, Windows Smashed.
Hundreds Rush Into
Streets
LEAK FOUND IN SEWER
A terrlflc explosion, that shattered hun
dreds of windows in the neighborhood
of iOth and Morris streets nnd Watklns
street between Mth and 21st streets,
throw many persons out of bed and
caused hundreds of startled inhabitants
of South 1'hlladelphln to scurry tnto the
streets a few minutes before 5 o'clock this
morning.
The oxploslon was caused by the acci
dental Ignition of a mixture of escaping
gas and a heavy secretion of sewer gas,
which was conllned. duo to tho heavy
atmosphere. Employes of the 1-. G. I.,
according to the police, were seeking a
leakage. They were working from 20th
and Tasker streets along Mth to Morris
and Watklns. Whether carelessness of
employes caused the explosion or whether
a passing pedestrian (licked a lighted
cigarette Into the danger lone, tho police
were not able to say.
Employes, who wero at work finding the
leak, said the explosion wns duo to sewer
gas but the only not.cc.tile odor was
mat of natural gas. which U very Btrong.
C real precautions were taken oday by
the police and no ono waa allowed to
llKht a match In the danger zone.
The explosion had terrific force. Three
manhole covers, weighing more than 150
Continued on I'M" Three. Column Three
FORD MAY TRY IT AGAIN
Cross Ocean on Second Peace
Mission If He Can Help
Will
PKTHOIT, Mich., Jan. .-Henrjr ford
will ero the ocean again and give bU
time and money to the cause of peace if
h la convinced that ho can be of any
asUtanc" to the peace hoard selected re
clntly by hU delegation of missionaries
to Kurope.
Such assurance have been glyen by Mr.
Pord I and he U waiting only for the final
woru fiom fheleadera of Ihe peace move
ment on. whose oounl he expects to
hU deeUlon.
Mr. Pom aw"e v ---:-
entirely with
the manner in wnicn wie
Deuce board
n chosen, anu unwiei
that body U1 be able to accomplish great
thtngs l- remaining in session near '.he
scat of war
Serial Story, "Home," a Tale of Romance and Adventure, Begins on
MANHOLE COVER BLOWN TO ROOFTOP BY GAS
The explosion of jns lenkinfc from n sewer nt 20th nnd Morris streets dummied houses nnd liroku windows
all nround tho vicinity today. The dotted line shows tho course of one manhole cover, which sailed 40 feet
through tho air and knocked the edge off n rooftop.
ROOSEVELT 'DRIVE'
AND ITS EFFECT ON
Influence of Roosevelt will ho thrown ngninst Scnntor Penrose in
fight to elect delegates to Republican National Convention.
Efforts of Roosevolt followers within Republican party in Pennsyl
vania, nnd of other nnti-Penrose forces, will bo exerted to elect delegates
who will not he controlled by Senator Penrose, und who would stand by
the Colonel in event of fight over Roosevelt in Republican Convention.
Anti-Pcnrose forces will try to send unpledged delegates to Chicago.
No effort will be made to have any of tho delegates pledged cither to
Colonel Roosevelt or to Governor Brumbaugh.
Factional fight, however, will not cxentd to Stntc ticket. Virtually
ngrced that Organization "harmony" ticket will be Speaker Charles A.
Ambler, of Montgomery County, for Auditor General, and Harmon M.
Kcphart, of Uniontown, for Stntc Treasurer.
There will be harmony on the 12 dclegntcs-at-large to the Republican
Convention. There also will he harmony on congressmcn-at-lnrgc, tho
four incumbents being slated for rcnominntion.
ROOSEVELT WILL
TO BEAT PENROSE
Seeks to Prevent Capture of
Delegates Cojb
vention
BITTER BATTLE PENDING
Thore will he a bitter State-wide fight
for control of tho delegates to tho He
publican National Convention.
Tho fight will bo to elect a delcgntlon
thnt will not bo controlled by Senntor
Penrose. Tho Progressives who hnve re
turned to the Republican party will Join
tho nntl-Pcnrnso forces, nnd will work
hnnd-ln-glove with tho Vnre-Hnimtmugh-Mngre
coalition tn bring about tho election
I of nntl-Pcnroso delegates who will go to
the Chicago convention unpledged.
The fight hns been decided upon, nc
cordlng to Information from nn authorita
tive source, following tho visit of Colonel
Theodoro Itoosevclt to this city, and nfter
Boverul conferences wero held here whllo
tho Colonel was in Philadelphia.
The pari that tho Progressives fti Penn
sylvania will play, and the limntiir In
which tho Itoosevelt Influence will be
directed, was outlined at conferences
held hy tho Colonel with Washington
party lenders. Among thos who dis
cussed the situation with Colonel Itoose
velt were 13. A. Van Valkcnburg nnd
Tliomas Ilohlns, of tho Washington
party, and a score of piomluent Itepubll
enns who attended tho dinner given hy
Itoblns nt thu Philadelphia Club on Thurs
day evening, before the meeting at tho
Metropolitan Opera House.
AVOUI) SENT OUT OF PLANS.
After these conferences, word wns sent
out thnt tho Itoosevelt influence would
he used In the primary campaign, nt
which the delegates will be chosen, out
side of the Washington party Itself.
The Colonel's influence and ho has n
strong following In the Republican party
In this State will be directed not so much
to stir up a factional fight as to send to
Chicago a delegation that will bo under
the control of nlmott any one except Sen
ator Penrose, so that in the event of a
fight over Roosevelt nt the Rep'-bllcnii
convention the Colonel could rely upon
tho support of the delegates from this
State.
With the Injection of he noosevilt In
fluence against tho plans of thi Penrose
faction to send a Penrose-controlleu Jele
gutlon, the untl-Penrose forces have taken
heart nnd are sending word to their fol
lowers that they are to work for the elec
tion of nn unpledged delegation that will
not be controlled by thu senior Senator.
Two tickets, for delegates and for mem
bers of the Republican State Committee,
will be placed in the Held as n result of
the Roosevelt visit. The slutlng of can
didates will be started by each faction
within a few days.
The tight, however, will not extend to
the State ticket, according to present
Indications. Speaker Charles A. Ambler,
supported by the Vares and Governor
Uruinbaugh for Auditor General, and
State Senator Charles A, Snyder, Kchujl.
kill, may tight for that nomination. Har
mon M, Kephart, clerk of the State Sen
ate, und, a Penrose follower, was agreed
upon today as the candidate of tho Or
ganization for State Treasurer. Kephart
lives in Uniontown, and Is a political
lleutenunt of Senator William K. Crow,
chairman of the Republican State Com
mittee. Motor Plant Floor Caves In
DETROIT, Jan. 22. The second floor of
the double stockroom at the plant of the
Hudson Motorcar Company caved in
shortly before noon today and tons of
motorcar parts were precipitated -with a
crash to the first floor. The damage will
reach several thousand dollars. No one
was Injured.
INTO THIS STATE
FACTIONAL FIGHT
CARRANZA TAKES
STEP TO RETURN
LAND TO JOTLE
Appoints Agrarian Com
mission to Draft Dis
tribution Decree
MAIN CAUSE OF REVOLT
QUERETARO. Mex.. Jan. H Chief
Executive furrnnza today took the first
step toward solving the land problem of
Mexico, the cause of many revolutions,
by appointing i. national ngrnrlnn com
mission. Tills commlsaluu Is to meet nt
once, and draft a decree for the dis
tribution of community lands, public and
Federal lands nnd timber rights.
Six mouths nt lrnst will bo required
by the commission to compieio Its work.
Tho members of tho commission ap
pointed by Carrnnza number nine, nnd
aro headed by Senor Rloiix, Minister of
Komcnto, who will servo ns president "f
tho commission. All tho Rovcinineiit
.Ministries are entitled to a member on
thu commission, and each Slat" nnd ter
ritory may havo a representative on tho
body.
To meet tho preliminary expenses of tho
commission 10,000 has been nppmprlnted.
Senor itloux said today that tho com
mission faced nn cuoimous task, the first
of Its kind ever undertaken In Mexico,
but declared that n plan would bo worked
out under which tho country's luhnhi
tnntH could enjoy tho ownership of lands
for cultivation without the perpetual dan
ger of being robbed by land-stealing otll
cials. Hy distributing the community hinds
Continued on I'uite Seirn, Column Two
SILURANTE AUSTRIACA
SILURATA E DISTRUTTA
Un Sottomarino Inglese Aflfon-
da nell'Adriatico Una Torpe-
diniera ed Un Idrovolante
Nemiei
Telegramml da Roma dlcono che un
sottomarino inglesa operants nell'Adri
atico hn affondato una torpedleniera
uustrlaca nell'alto Adriatic" cd ha dls
trutto nnche un ldroaeropU.no austriaco.
II sottomarino nveva sorpreso l'lilro
volante mentrn era sull'aciiua e sublv.i
riparazlonl alle macchlne. I due nvlatori
furono futtl priglonierl. II sottomailno
staa ullora per iminergersl, quando una
torpedletU' '.. si avvlclito ed npil' H
fuoco su di esso. Gil Inglcsl lanclarono
ullora un solo siluro che basto' a mandare
a fondo la torpedlniera. SI ignora la
sorte dell'equlppagslo.
Un telegramma da Amsterdam dice che
II gabinetto Balandru si ' dlmesso e
che Lulg! I.uzzattt ha formato II uuo.o
nilnlstero. f.a notizla va nccettuta "cum
grauo sails " Per !o eno merlta con
ferma, SI sa luvece che I'Austria, iec
ondo quanto afferma un ilUpaccio da
Atene, ha fntto nuove proposte dt pace
alia Serbia, sublto dopo che le trattatlve
con II Montenegro falllrono.
tLeggerc in 4a pagtna le ultlme e pin'
dettagllate notlzlo aulla guerra. In
Italinno.)
Woman Jumps Three Stories
A Jump of three stories from a window
after u quarrel with her husband re
sulted In the serious Injury of Mrs. Mary
Kelly, of 81 North 5d street, Camden. She
is In a serious condition today at the
Cooper Hospital. Mrs. Kelly told the po
lice she plunged through the window
after becoming enraged at her husband.
Physicians at the hospital said she Was
suffering from concussion of the brain.
CHOIR BOY HELD
IN $10,000 THEFT
AT ST. MARK'S
Rector of Fashionable Lo
cust Street Church
Makes Capture
HAD RELIGIOUS MANIA
1 nlole tierntir I nnntrd a church of
my own, where I rould prrnch my own
feno-oii1."
This explanation wns made, In a voice
that quivered with fervor, by 1fi- car-old
Genrgo !'. Davis, n choir boy In St. Mark's
Episcopal Church, after symbols nnd
ornaments of the finest texture used In
the rites of the church and worth 10,000,
had been found hy tho pollco In tho nttlc
nnd cellar of his home, at 2IZt North 32d
street, today, following his enpturo by tho
rector, tho Row J. Ellnt White, last nignt.
SYMPATHY FOR SICK UD.
A great wnvn of sympathy for the lit
tle chorister, who is believed to ho suf
fering from a religious mania, wns
aroused In the congregation, which num
hern nmong its vestrymen fleorgo Whar
ton Pepper, n lending layman of the
dloccso.
It wns In St. Murk's, which Is on Lo
cust street, between 16th nnd 17th streets,
thnt the brilliant wedding of Miss Murle
I.oulsn Wiinnmnker, daughter of Rodman
Wnnnmaker, and Ouriieo Muni, took
plnce last spring.
Young Davis, a freshmnn at the Cen
tra! High School, li believed to have im
paired his mind through too much read
ing. Ills In it morbid mind. Ills friends
say, poring over hooks while other hoys
of his nge were romping In healthy play.
Silken vestments, bmldcd with golden
thread: silver candlesticks, cloth of gold,
n ttrtnanf r, lit..,,., ulnnil utnlftU nt Sfltl.l.
brocaded with gotd, und other Jeweled
ornaments, repiesentlng n smnll fortune,
wero found wrapped In newspapers
tucked nwny In odd places nnd corners
of the ,outhful singer's home.
He showed no fear when ho revealed
the hiding places tn detectives, zenlously
thinking where hn hnd put this und that,
and even hiliiging forward, with an nlr
of triumph, n silver ciuclflx which, the
pollco s.iy, he purchn-ed vith money
taken from tho hutch.
Plve checks of tho farmers' ll.iuk of
Pelawaie. calling for $I.Mu,mji each, pay
able to "fleorgo 1 Da. Is" nnd signed
"St. Mark's Church, per Davis," also
were found. They constitute one of thu
strongest pionfs, it is thought, that the
boy Is demented, us ho seemed tn have
Continued on Tuge Tho, Column I'i.e
BRIDE AND GROOM DIE
FROM GAS IN GARAGE
Rellefonte Couple, Married
Only Five Days, Asphyxiated
by Auto's Exhaust
HEU.EFONTE. Pa., Jan. 22. Mr. and
Mrs. AVIlllam II. Noll, a bride nnd
bridegroom of only five days, were found
dead In Noll's garage shortly before S
o'clock this morning. Mrs. Noll was sit
ting In tho fiont seat of the car behind
the steering wheel and her husband was
standing alongside, with Ills arms aver the
car- They are supposed to have been
asphyxiated by the exhaust from the
auto.
Noll conducted a small garage and had
an auto for delivery work. He married
Miranda W. Mowrey Monday evening.
They were lust seen allvo about 5 o'clock
yesterday afternoon, and the supposition
Is that they were overcome during the
evening. When Noll's brother, Calvin,
went to the garage this morning he found
their bodies.
At 7 o'clock this morning a man ran
his machine Into the garagu and saw
Mr. and Mrs. Noll, but thought them
asleep and went out without Investigat
ing. An inquest will be held this after
noon. U. of I. Class Day Speakers Chosen
Class day speakers at the University
of Pennsylvania have been elected by the
senior class for the graduation exercises
at the close of the present school, year.
They are: Arthur Littleton, valedictorian;
Loyal Graham, poet. George C. Uroslus,
historian; Harry T. Huff, prophet; Albert
Lucas, ivy orator, and Robert Gothan
and Mason Wright, prosentors.
QUICK NEWS
ARIZONA TOWN OVERWHELMED BY FLOOD
SAN DIIlCJO. Cnl JnM. 28. The Colorntlo Htvcr flood lino bioken
out of the river bnnko tit Yttiitn, Aiiz., flooding the city and killing
at least one nmn, tt telephone messngc fiont the scene this afternoon
stated. The Southern Pacific tracks weie flooded. The situation was
critical, nccordlliR to the messngc.
CARS CARRIED OVER EMBANKMENT BY AVALANCHE
SEATTLE, Wash., Jnn. 22. Caught in nn nvalnnchc of snow,
which tonied down the mountainside, the dining: car nnd n day coach
on Girnt Noithcrn train No. 25 weie cut out from the rest of the
tmin and muled over ft 200-foot embankment near Scenic today.
Srvunl peiBons weto rpnoituri killed. The passenger train was en
li-uU tu Seattle fiom Simkniie.
QUEEN OP MONTENEGRO ARRIVES IN FRANCE
LYONS, France, Jnn. 2L'. (juuen .Mllena, of Montenegro, nnd Iter two
daughters arrived here today. Pending tho selection of n permanent rcsldencn
the royal party will ntny nt n hotel.
I'OI'E INSISTS ON REPARATION TO HELGIUM
WASHINGTON. Jnn. 22 Tho I'opc will never consent to offer his offices
for tho rp-pstnlillshtitpiit of pence until full roparntlon ban boon made to
Uelgluni, nccnrdlng tn Knther llenussc, n l!(lginn Jesuit who recently was
grunted nn nudlonco by tho Holy Knther. 'flip Hrltlsh embassy hero todar
made public nn Interview with I'nther Honusse, which makes thin declaration.
GONZALEZ ARRIVES AT QUERETARO
QlfKUETAUO, Mex., Jnn. 22. CJenernl Pablo Gonzalez, commander of tho
Mexico City garrison, arrived here unexpectedly today. Ho was mot at tho
station by General Carrnnza nnd General Obregon.
NO COMMUNICATION BETWEEN GREECE AND BULGARIA
ZURICH, Jnn. 22. A Sofia dixpntch stntes Hint nil communlcntlon between
Greece nnd Ilulgarln hns been suddenly stopped. The message given no cx-ptnnntlon.
ITALIAN.CABINET QUITS, SWISS REPORT
AMSTERDAM, Jnn. 22. Tho Ncuo Zurlcher Nnchrlchtcn nnottnees thnt
It hns received definite Information that tho Italian cabinet has resigned nnd
that Premier Snlnndra has been succeeded by Slgnor Luzattl.
No hint thnt tho Itnllan cabinet was near collapso has reached America.
If the statement of tho Zurich newspaper Is correct the Itnllan censor hns
kept the situation closolv guarded.
COLONEL HOUSE CONFERS WITH FRENCH OFFICIALS
PARIS, Jnn. 22. Colonel 13. M. House, poraonnl roprcscntntlvo of President
Wilson who is tho fjuest of I'nlted States Ambassndor Sharp, met n number of
French government officials today. Ho declined to make nny statement.
BRITISH E-BOAT SINKS TWO AUSTRIAN WARCRAFT
HOMI3, Jan. 22. An Austrlnn torpedobont nnd nn Austrtnn hydroplane
wero sunk In tho upper Adriatic yesterday by a Hrltlsh submarine, according
to advices received hero todny.
Tho submarine enmo upon tho hydroplnno whllo tho aviators -were trying
to repair their engine. Hnth Austrians wero taken prisoners, and tho sub
marine wns preparing to submergo when tho torpedoboat approached nnd
opened fire. The nritlsher shot nno torpedo and sent her to the bottom. The
fate of the torpedobont's crew Is unknown.
NORWEGIAN "TOURIST" TOWN DESTROYED BY FIRE
CHHISTIANIA, Jan. 22. Tho noted tourist town of Moldc, 32 miles south
west of Christlnnla, was wiped out by fire last night, a gnlo driving tho blaze
so rapidly that many Inhabitants narrowly escaped death. Two thousand
Persons wero mado homeless, according to advices received here today. Boforo
the war the German Kniser visited Moldo each year, nnd ho once gave tho
town n monument.
21 SHIPS SUNK IN MONTH BY TEUTONS
HKni.IN, Jan. 22. Tho Overseas News Agency has given out the following
statement: "Competent German authorities stnto thnt during tho month of
December 24 ships, among which wero ono Hrltlsh nuxlllnry cruiser and two
ilrllish transports, aggregating 101,761 tons, were destroyed by Austro-derman
fleets. Reliable reports about whips destroyed by mines and collisions nro still
lacking. The total will not bo less thnn 130,000 tons."
AUSTRIA FIXES WAR AGE LIMIT AT 55
UKULIN, Jnn. 22. Tho Austrian Government, In order to repluco territorials
fcent to the front, nccordlng to tho Ovcrseus News Agency, has Issued n decree
fixing the ngo limit for tho course) of tho war ut 55 yeurs. Those, who nro
between tho nges of 00 nnd 55 years will do service only for six weeks continu
ously and then only In districts outside of tho war zone.
GERMANS PLAN BIG STEAMSHIP LINE FROM FIUME
BKHLIN, Jan. 22. According to special dispatches from Budapest, repre
sentatives of the North German-Lloyd und Hamburg-American Steamship Lines
will nrrlve there shortly to begin negotiations with tho Hungarian Government
for organizing n new steamship line from Flume to New York to supersede the
Cunard Line, whose contract with the Government lapsed becauso of the war.
It appears that the chief arrangements havo been agreed on nnd that" only th'e
details remain to be fixed.
GOVERNMENT SEIZES FAMOUS LONDON HOTEL
LONDON, Jan. 22, A flurry of excitement In the hotel district vns caused
hy the announcement that tho spacious Hotel Metropole, which is well known,
to many Americans, had been commandeered by the Ministry of Munitions for
administrative olflces.
DRIVE ON EGYPT HALTED BY LACK OF COAL
LONDON, Jan. 22. Germany's campaign In Egypt Is meeting unexpected
obstucles, It is announced here, duo to the lack of coal to operate the railroad
which the Germans have constructed southward through Syria to the edge qf
the desert approaching the Suez Canal. The construction of the rallror.d has
been largely facilitated by French rails and material for a similar line which
was partly constructed, but the absence of coal prevents the actual opening of
the road. The lack of coal has caused Germany to reopen the old Turkish mines
In Syria, The capacity of these mines in 500,000 tons annually.
SWISS OFFICERS ESCAPE TRIAL ON TREASON CHARGE
GKNKVA, Jan. 22. The Swiss Federal Council has decided that the facts
on which the charges recently made against Colonel Maurice de Wattenoyl and
Colonel Karl Kgli are based do not constitute high treason, but are such that
judicial proceedings should be begun against the two olllcers, and this accord
ingly has been ordered. Tho men were accused of communicating to Germany
Information regarding the French positions along the French.Swiss frontier
und, according to other accounts, of having delivered each evening to the Austro
German military attaches the reports received at Swiss headquarters during the
day concerning the movements and the
frontiers.
BRITISH MUSEUM MAY CLOSE
LONDON, Jan. 22. The London morning newspapers forecast th
early' closing of the Hrltlsh Museum, mostly as a measure of feconomy- Th
National Portrait Gallery Is already closed and the Wallace Collection will not
bo on view after tho 1st of February. Only a part of the ''National Gallery is
now open to the public, most of the important works of art having been removed
on account of the danger from Zeppelin raid.
Page 5 of Today's
disposition of Swiss troops along; the
fc
Evening Ledger
I
1
m
4
I
I
3
m
ft '
'if'
i
1
tff'
w
h
