OUR POSSIBLE ALLIES
IN SOUTH AMERICA
Types of soldiers that would fight for Uncle
Sam if Pan-American Alliance is con
summated. The illustrated story
IN THE SUN TO-MORROW.
,fev, THlEWEATHER FORECAST.
Cloudy ant warmcr to-day ; rainy, colder,
"j&jfift. to-morrow.
Highest temperature yesterday, 54; lowest, 36.
Dctnlted'we.itlier, ma.ll and mirlnc reports on page 13,
...
VOL. LXXXIII. NO. 144.
Inquiry into
LEGISLATORS'
BILL SCANDAL!,
District Attorney Acts in
Tlionipson Committee
Rumpus.
PALLS FOR RECORDS
AT THK TlILT)IOItE
Law .Msilics Felony of False
Clisi i"rinjr of Account
to State.
Pitr"t Attorney Swann began yester
day .in Investigation into thn Jo, 230 hill
of Hi' Thompson committee for two
nvnlh entertainment at the Hotel Hllt
more. Items In thin bill were not prop
irly set forth, according to tho admission-
of Senator Thompson himself, who
0. Iv 'i the account.
Assistant District Attorney William
Hirm.in Illack, who has been assigned
to the c.ic, announced later that pre-
limlnary study Inrlltied him to the be
lief that the situation was covered by
lection P"3 of the penal law, which 1
makes It n felony for any jM.-rs.oii to
.mitt, pav or allow miv false claim I
against the State, a county, city or vll-
. , , ,
'use or to connive In suon worn Know- ,
ins that such claim or demand Is false ,
or fraudulent The penalty Is live. ears
Imprisonment or 15.000 line or both.
IWore his day ended Mr. Mack vis-
Itfd the Hotel Hlltmore, where he was
promised every scrap of writing that re-
latfd to the bills of the Thompson coin- '
mitt" during the months of January,
February and March, 1915. These rec-
ords will Include the ledger, which will
contain the separate charge against
iery member of the committee; the
card.-, winch contain inc accounts an-
aljzed, such as food, drink", cigars. Mow-
ra. theatre tickets, cabs, manicure, -bar-
ber. lea. and extra
male.
guests, male or fe-
Tak lo (iel lleeords ToKelher
i..i t.....a. -a i.. ... i.UH
records together Is great, the accounts '' " that lie has solved lst, In
couM not be Mulshed yesterday. They the secret nTvice and In prlvale de
nay be sent to Mr. Hlack this morning JeotUe work. He could not tie levelled
or on Monday at the outside. They will ?Ft 'M. and no reason as to why
e tjken to Mr. Swarm's assistant by ,h" Ornish authorities hhould hav
Auditor Ilugene D. Miller, who made the deemed It necessary to make the search
ifTIJavi' for the State Comptroller's "f t,lr' London agency could Ik- obtaliud
I'CI.-c that ail of the .latej and Items xcep! that It was purely precautlonm v
' mentioned Hiul charged therein were "" 'I"" '",rt of Scotland Vanl
rorreet This Is where Senator James A.
Foley, sVnator George Crmnwell and As
wmbl.vni.ui H. Hunter McQulstlon have
oi ntradi' ted Mr. Miller, all declaring
that they ,id not occupy the rooms they
Hi1 set forth as occupying or eat the
fol chanted against ttietn.
In answer Senator George Thompson
'?::l:l.V:ir"v,"Kn.thj,i.!i!;r
" .'" ," V. . . . i . .
Commission, admits that the legislators
ma he rorreet, but he falls back upon
tv assertion that the amount Is correct
nnl thil t was prorated according to
areifnt committee custom.
Senator Thompson added this lasrt
ncht; That Mr. McQulstlon properly
had objected to the Items charged
annum him and that others may do the
He had proceeded according to
thf praitice, but that at the end of the
ire.ni Investigation he would see to It
Hut other ominlltees and their bills
oulil come Into the limelight to the end
that the practice may !. broken up.
et 1i (inther K Idence.
Mr Illack ent n letter yesterday to
M' MiQuietlnii containing a request that
( Ms't Judge Swann on Monday, taking
m nun all documentary evidence. An-
otfc.r Inter went to State Comptroller
Hg-ne . Travi, requesting that cer-
' n'd copies of nil accounts, vouchers or
ninurml.t bearing on the subject be
er.t to the District Attorney of New
inrk county at once. The State romp-
'roller was ,(.0 asked If he would In
' It became necessary to submit the
f'rlE.r.al re.-ur.ls to a Grand Jury send
the records without a subpiena.
""t.viously until we know tin- facts
nnti ti c cm be said here with refersnce dmandTI the st anger's business, where,
to the e,ie," jmiB,. Swann. "We upon the man fled upMnirs Pult r ran
"bt first ascertain If Senator l'oley's I out and met Policeman Schrlmpf of the
nme anj -tr. Mctjulstlou's name were West lnflth street station Schrlmpf ran
filne!) us..() to cover a claim befor-j we I Inside, drawing his revolver as he went,
can pro. e( These gentlemen are to be 1 The firebug was Just disappearing
"'l tu oome to this ofllce. The man- 1 around the turn on the seinrid floor
't-rs ,t th. hotel have expressed an The policeman yelled at til ni to stop and
entire willlrgness to send to us every- followed him upstairs until the fugitive
'Ira- tliev have hearing on the matter, went through the skylight. He crawled
"e win i,e able to discuss the case more through the hole and disappeared,
nted.'getitlv whin we have that. The Schrlmpf. hindered by his heavy unl
inf!iut, is to be thorough and will I form, was delayed In getting thmugh.
iro e-a. nm ; violations of the law. If When he emerged there, was no sign of
' piin'shed." the fleeing man.
Aotmliijinan McQulstlon, In whose An Investigation revealed a quart bot
Dlll were onarireH 5l.7f.fi for.. Iw.t.l H.nm il. rtf tremsetie oil 111 the cellar of the
hat lie nev.r occupied and I1K3.41 for
I0'J. I. n ,,f which he says he ate, re
WI w..rrt yesterday of the State
co-nptrolb r s willingness to take nwnn
'?" in flu mailer. Mr. Travis Informed
the Asenililvinau that If he would put
naiitiiei.t piihllshesl In the newspapers
.1 me inrni or an affidavit the Pwnp- )
boiler wi.ulil submit the entire mailer to
Atto.-i.ey.General Woodbury for nn
opr.ip' Mr Mctjuistlon Immediately
"! an attlcbivit and sent It to the State
Comptroller.
Thiiotpsiin iKimreil lllm.
Th Assemblyman made the following '
latrine rit .
"n the ifith Instant my counsel, Hd-
" J Di ver, , (;nt letters to the
Hlltmirs I Intel and in Senator Thomn.
on demanding the filing of a true and
'v.rrect hill tl, (.rfice of the State I
oniplroller In place of the one filed on,
lune ii. flir. v-n answer In ellhee of
'he letteis has been received
I' Is obvious that Senator Thompson
should have Immediately declared that
j true statement of expenditures would
lis tirenareil u-llhoiit tl... ,..a (l.n. ,U
ftatcmtht would plainly show by whom '
i.e for what these expenditures were
Wade Inste.ul Senator Thompson has
Chosen to ilef,.,,,! t. faHf, stalcment on I
')( ClOUlxl lh.it It In. K..,, ..,..,....,
, - ...... i. ...... . , i ur,u j i
in ennnectlnn with the exfiendltures mads 1
legislative commltttes to spread the 1
kin 11 " wn tuanner tliat responsl
t.l.tv fr expenditure cannot be fixed
'ie statement, nii made, was sworn
Conli'iiurd on ,rn( Vapr.
OM.V IW HIII'KH TO HAVANA.
li V0""! Lino, "tiiirhli, sn.t West In
l.lmlt.-J," :lf, A. M. All Klorlil. r-
-iii. 1 Trln, Uil1'
Detectwe Burns fs London
! HraHnn
Mysterious Search of American's Office by British Offi
cialsFederal Grand Jury Suspects Seven Men as
Strike Promoters With Lamar.
SESSIONS ARE TO CONTINUE NEXT WEEK
Thev following private cable message
wng rrcclvcil hero yesterday:
"London, Jnn. 21. Tlio London
brHnch of tho William J. Hunts Nn
tlonal Deteotlvo Agency, with head
quarters In Now York, was sentclicd
by Scotland Yard men a few months
' The. Scotland Yard men wont
throtiKh thn records In the olllce, hut
found nothing of nn Incriminating
nature.
"The manager of the branch olllce.
who to an Kugllshtiiaii, told the au
thorities th.it tho olllce did practically
no business for the New York olllce,
Its work lielng confined ohietly to Lon
don. "It also has leen learned that Nor
man T. Itallry, who was the manager
of the London olllce at the time of the
outbreak of the war, re-signed about a
year ago. He gave no reason for bin
resignation, but went to America,
where he Is wild to have started nn
ugcticy of his own,"
.
When .Sherman Hums. on of William
"'' re-ached by telephone hi
the home of his father In Hronxvllle
,,st M,Km ,,,, hf,
content.1.
,,f the cabl.. message, he said :
"I'm. tile Investigation bnipened some
months ago. We were lurormed of It
by letter from our London manager.
When the authorities visited the London
olllce they minted out to the manager,
who Is Hngllsh born, though he worked
some yearn In America, that the Hum
agency was the only American concern
of Its kind that hud branches in Ixindon
anil In Kurnpe. The manager said he
understood the situation fully, and Im-
nieuiately opened up all the book and
the records for their Investigation. The
Investigator said they w.re satlsllcd
and frciiii what we learned afterward we
have every reason to believe that they
found they were perfectly satisfied."
wiiiiam j. mini, ii,;u ,,f the Hums
axencv. has gained liiteriiiitlon it fame
UXCOLX STILL l-'RRK.
Wunirii niitl Mlilllofx IMfiiinril for
SI ' ISfltH',
?niitus T T. Lincoln, wlio mUs him
Wif un I lit.. ntf.... t ....... ..nt
i. ,m m.'.;; e,e mimPv.
ous projihecles that he would t. ca
mured
within a short lime.
If Lincoln, who yesterday wrote a let
ter to William M, OfTley. eho f of tlv
FIREBUG ESCAPES ON
ROOF AFTER A CHASE
Iliirlcni incendiary Nenr Cii
tu re Policeman Pursues
Cpstnirs to Skylight.
The Harlem firebug who has kept the
upper part of the city In tenor recently
by his numerous blazes In tenement
bouses came near ladng caught Ian night
within n few minutes after lie had
planted his oil eoaked papers anil lags
In th-' cellar of 94H Columbus avenue.
Kdward Pulter, who lives In the house,
entered the hall about 9:1.1 o'clock and
found a man lurking In the lear. Ho
tenement. Near by was a pile of news
papers, liberally saturated. A quantity
of oil had also been sprinkled In the
wood bins near by.
The house Is the same in wnu.ii a sus.
plclous fire wns lepurtfd last Tuesday
night, and the police believe Isitb fires
were thn work or tjio sime man. Ac-
cording to Schrlmpf, who caught a brief
glance at the fugitive, 111,, firebug wns
about 25 jears old. r. feet S Inches tall
and dressed In a black suit and hat
SUBMARINE SINKS AEROPLANE.
llrltloh Cnptnre liistrlnn viators
and llpalro) 'lorpedo float.
fipeiial faile v.j'ilf. In Tnr. Sin
ItnMK, Jan. 21
The Willie rot re-
spondent of the moriiejfr (fllalia re-ports
I'"'1 a Hrltish submarlfte In the vicinity
eif linilio, ai un- nc.oi o, (,,,iiuc, en
ceiuntered an Austrian aeroplane which
had fallen Into the sea, ilcstro.wst the
machine nnd captur-d the occupants
An Austrl in torpedo bo it whbii ar
rived on the scene was sunk.
DENIES SINKING THE PERSIA,
Tell. it. s. i:...o, .,. ,,f
llrr I' Hoals Wnn oneeriied,
Vinkna. via London, Jan. 22 (Satur-
eia ).--The American Aj.niassador, K
r Pentield, bus been informed by the
Austro-lliiiigarlan Governuieiit that nn
submarine In the service of the Dual
Monarchy was concerned In the sink
ing of the liner Persia.
nr.ABOAm Ki.oKin.t i.inrrKnsiiN v. m.
lie I.uxe toenjiariment ejir Trsin to Inrlda
Qulckeal. Bett. 8 aboard Air line Hy, III) n war
NEW YORK, SATURDAY, JANUARY 22,
A
New York division of special Investi
gators of the Department of Justice,
offering to give himself up on condition
that he be permitted to remain In this
country as a political refugee, Is rap
tured. It Is likely that some sort of
prosecution will ensue.
The authorities were searching yes
terday for two women who visited Lin
coln at the Itaymond street Jail and
wno uineii with him frequently
a woman figures picturesquely In the
reported method by which Lincoln
slipped away from the restaurant where
he looelln.t li.yt ,.lnftln.. In Mmnanf
with a deputy marshil. It Is said that
a woman drove to the restaurant In a
high powered automobile and, carrying
a satchel, took a seat several tables away
from Lincoln.
The story goes that Lincoln picked up
the satchel, which contained a disguise,
and entered the wash room. It Is said
that within a short time a man of
distinct blond type sauntered out of
the restaurant, entered the nutomoblle
and drove away.
The Federal authorities say that Lin -
coin was aided In his escape by the
members of "Group B." a secret organl -
zatlon of supposed Russian Nihilists,
ijim.-u .-laic .iiitrsiinl j allies .n.
ncctlcut on a tip that Lincoln had been
seen there. It was said that Marshal
Power and more than fifty other search-
ers have been combing a certain section
of this city since Thursday noon and
Still Cling to the hone that till" section
is the likeliest sot In which to look-
tor Lincoln. 1
IHirU A ' A V nv prnT r mi
. iwoj .
I'eilernl Neulrsllty Prosecutions
,,.,,. ...
involve
vv asiiinotiin. Jan. .'I. A list or per-'
sons and corporations Indicted In the
lederal courts since August I. 1!M(, In
connection with criminal plots affecting 1
the neutrality of the t'nlted State" was,
forwarded to Chairman Webb of the
House Committee on the Judiciary to.
day by Attorney-General Gregory. This
Information was made public In iessnse
to a communication directing his atten
tion to a resolution calling for Its pro
duction by Itefiresentatlve Itennet of
New York,
Seventy-three persons and corpora
tions have been proceeded against crim
inally under the neutrality laws, accord
Inir to ibis oioiiiiiiilei.ilno. Amrinir ilu.v.
mentioned are Itefireseiitntlve lluchanan
of Illinois, Pranz Hlntelen, Vincent Cook
in. I Max Ilreltung. Tho Attornev-ileo.
er.il does not state In what jurisdiction
the various Indictments were handed
down nor the character of offences
chaiged. Neither doe. hp Include all
persons arrested on charges of criminal
unneutral acts, stating that the publica
tion of such information would be incom
patible with the interests of Justice.
The .Vttoniey-General also failed to
ConffMririf nu srrovil I'apr.
MRS, G, J. GOULD SAVES
WAIFS FROM BELGIUM
.,
ni'Il'ICIHIS I II III I IV. ItillllPlI in
Wnr Street Musician With
Child Arrested.
The fail that three llelglan refugees
father, mother and child who foi sev
eral vieeks have earned a living as stiect
musicians have been befriended by Mrs
Georiri. .1 i I of if. '... so. ..'..-' !
street was disclosed last night in the
.. . . . . .
night court. The man. Harry De Itudder,
who wns formerly professor of music in
(lie Antwerp Opera House, was arraigned
before Magistrate Groehl by Otllrer Sher
wooil of the Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty in Children on a charge of using
a minor lo solicit alms, but nt the re.
quest of Mrs, Gould he was discharged.
Mrs. Gould, It senilis, had heard the.
man and his wife playing on llroadway
a week ago. Their daughter. Madeline,
.1 years old, wns collecting the pennies,
nickels and dimes of the ciowd In a ill-
tie mechanical toy. Mrs, Gould ques-
tinned the musicians nnd learned that
they had tbsl from llelirluiu seven
months ago, having been driven from
their homo by the German Invaders, she The apartment of Mr Cardeza, who' ,, w,n i,f HUtiiiitteil by the army ex
Investigated their story nt the llelglan represents a distillery with an olfue at p,.ls for consideration,
consulate and found that It was true '-" William street, was entered early Meantime the General Staff and the
and then Invited (lie family to her home
last Suiiduv nlirhi
n .""
rue laiiuiy reacneu the night court
In tills way: Policeman Sherwood saw
them playing jesterday afternoon ai
Klghtli aveniin nnd Klfty-elglith street.
He followeil them to the Colonial Then-
tre. in front of which they collected
a crouel of several hunilie-d iersons.
Then Slierwooil arrested the man and
took lilm lo the West Slxty-elghth street
station.
There De Hudder mentioned Mrs.
Gould. Slierwooil asked her about the
case and sh in turn r muesli, I him to
VtrZlrfi'ie 'e-eiil!"5 v"," '" ,,y
MaglKtra e (.roehl Mrs Gould told ,
.... vi .iiici nan i.en un-
able to secure a s.sltlon here and there.,
for. nhiceil on tl. khn.l. til I
ore piajrii on me sneers, she prom-
in.-., i., iirr .dm ui me larniij', and
SherwiHid said he understood thai she
bad Interested a prominent orchestra
leader In this city In their ei.sM n a
that the man had been assured of a
po-ltloii, he family. Sherwood said.1
was wealthy In Helglum, hut lost home 1
nnd fortune In the war. I
i
, 1
n
BURGOMASTER MAX DYING
Klnat tlfoiiso Seeks Melease
Cornier llnisselaj Oftlelal,
I'miib, Jan. 21 Spes-Ul efforts ai-e be. !
ing mane ny ivmg Alfonso of Spain
to secure the release of Adolphe, Max
thn former ItllrroimiMler .rf 11. ta.uaiu .....
the former lliirgomaiter of Hi ukhci,.
Is djing eif tuberculosis In a Herman
military prison,
The SiKinlsli Ambassador In Iterlin h.i
n-'olved Instructions to do all wllhlu his
power for .vi, .vi ax.
Feir nourtshlnr diet in rrtptsi or or 'hrfSM
me nofilck'a Malted Milk. AttaU wMilUeiT
! BANDIT SHOOTS TWO
I flflAill W UHIUAUU
Wounds Cashier. Kills :i Po -
I ice inn ii nnd Ksmpos Into
Busy Streets.
WOMAN "PAL" WITH KIM
Iwnltlnar in Auto. She Mingles
With Punic Stricken Throng
nnd Gets Awn v.
Ciiicaiio, Jan. 21. A lone bandit held
up and robbed the offices of Thomas
Cook A Son, tourist ngents, 16 Hast
Jackson lloulevnnl, late this afternoon.
snot and dangerouslv wounded the
, , ' ' ' " ' """
' OllCeiUall 1).
. jonnson, wno attempted
to block him at the entrance, anil finally
escaped with $500.
A woman accomplice, who sat at the
wheel of nn automobile near the curb
stone. Jiimiwd fiom the motor and dis
appeared In the crowd. State street
was tilled with homeward Imimd shop
pers at the time, and the shooting caused
a panic. The ticket office Is but a few
feet east of State street.
It was 5,15 o'clock when the robber
1 entered the ,1-... t .,m ti,
i cnshler wns counting over the receipts
1 of the afternoon.
"Hands up. everybody," ordered the
mgliwavm.in as h. num.. ..... ..l ,
Wal.-h staNed .0 nach for a revolver
Immellatev there .was 1 roi.,.n ....1
Walsh fell with a bulb? t 1 11 hi s cl o'st
The robber elzed the ll. of lulls tu. keii
them Into his pocket and backed' towir.l
the il. or '
.
. ... .,,
The report .if the revolver had at-
,r"e,,1 "e ntteutlon of passersbv. One
or tne crowd ran to the street crossing
and summoned Polli email Johnson.
Johnson reached the do.jrway Just as the
robber was stepping out ,s Johnson
started to seize him the robber tired.
i" ouuei passing tnroiigh his heart
Johnson fell dying un the doorstep.
" tnis time the sheet was almost'
Impassable. Women rushed screaming
lnto doorways. Those nearest the ticket
fr'1'' w,' fighting to get back. Those
"hind vvere pushing their wMJ (,,
'"'" -vian uni not know whit had
'"iL!" ','"rc
The roblier saw that it w... tn.,u...u.i.
for him to reach the machine where the
woman was waiting with the engine
running. He ran east, where another
machine was standing. He Jumped Into
the seat beside the driver and ordered
him to drive away a t it,. ........ .,
junipeu out aim disappeared. Tile driver
J"l,0rtwl to the police and convinced
,h,M" that lie did riot know the rubber
' "l Kn"" ' '" I"" Plate had
f011"''1 ""tl1 he retinue,! to the
IV,,,,,,,, ,.
, ' '
I he woiran who h.ul 1 i i . the
ticket olbce with the lilghw.nman
walled until she saw he was unable to
reach her mi a. count of the dene crowd
on the sidewalk and street She did
not attempt to drive nwaj. but tpi'd
from the machine and mingled with the
crowd. disappearing It. fore It wis known
that she had come to the place with the
bandit.
Pi.l.ce ran Johnson was earned into Cover riuient In time of war and to be , rfeUt011 Pl'CSS ClaillOl'S foi Most Dl'aStlC Reprisals POSSi
s Hub clothing store and from there given full commissions. 1
the
taken to St. Luke's llosnltal He was
dead befoie he was carried from the paitineiit and the railroad" on the solv
ambulance. Ing of problems of engineering construe-
lalward Stone, manager of the olllce. Hon of military railroad" in time of
was one of those held up. He said
' that yesterday aflernoou a blond woman
.came Into the olllce and made Inquiries
'about tickets to Panama. She was in
the ro.im several minutes nun, accord-
Ing to Mr. Stone, she seemed to be
studying the entire office. She told him
that she would come back to-day to
complete her arrangement.
He believes that s lid come back.
nt least to the curbstone outside the
otllce. Persons who saw the woman
'' '
sitting It. the machine waiting for the
...hlur .lnurllMl her lit th. .run., wt V
roblier ilcserllved her In the same way
that Mr Stone did. and the police be-
.lla.u V,,. I ,h 1. tl.M H.imrfu'nm.tn uh.i
was In the olllce the day before
" ; -
STOLEN JEWELS FOUND.
'relen Untiherj- In
norr.iiir
Drive Qnlekly Sol,,.,!.
I.ess than twelve hours after the ins
rnverv thin the imartuieiits of Howard
J. M, Cardeza at 2in Itlversldc Drlv j
had been nibbed of Jewelry, silver and '
clothing valued at S,0iio Detectlvea
Glery and Willi of the fourth branch
bureau reported the recovery of jirac- i
tie-ally all of the stolen properly and
tlie arrest of an elevator operator tu the
apartment house. '
yesterday bj- menus of a Jimmy applied
to a rear eloor. The valuables were
........ .. i ti... i i
,itRr" i? m e. . khikhhi
was discovered by the maid. Mr and
Mrs. Cardeza were at Long lleach,
where tliej" mm neen since .vmnuay rney
returned Inst night when Infor med by
ie 7SL" J!!!!,i!'";L
After Cliarles Smith, the elevatnr op.
erator, was anc.-ted, the detcclives ar
rested Albert Cook, a laborei. Keith live
at 11 West Klfty-thlrd street, where,
according to the police, nio-t of the
valuables were found. They also found
ii Jimmy, a blackjack, a loaded revolver
I .ut.ll..l,l TM... .l,..n.l.nu ......
h-V '"" ' V"''" I'0" session p i h
,l(.kets for some of tl.e stolen pioperty.
TUf nollre say both prisoners coiilessed.
Smith Is aim charged with a violation
" . -
f the Sullivan act.
URGES ECONOMY IN SUICIDE.
'hrlan Otlle'lal Opposes Shooting
re. More Costl, Than llanialna.
. .
?!" " Dir Mv
Amstkrpam, via linrion, Jan. 21,
The body of a man was recently found
at lloltsfmi. iicuT nriiKsels. Iiivestlga- j
Hiori dlsclostsl th.it bo had committed '
suicide by shisitlng himself As the I lei- I
-I...... ... foehhltleo t.. I,eu ,.. I
Sifew "'e - ....... ..Hill. Ill
their ssseslon the Germans fined the
commune 260 francs If. 111). Tills line
wllH ""a
The but gon.nsler then Issued an appeal
en ia townsfolk. Wh oh hum oh.,... e.l.l 1
to the townsfolk, whluli was placarded
the- commune, urging jenj one who
wished to commit suicide in rutin to
please do so by hanging or drowning,
lest loo many case.- of .sIiiniiIh; cxInniKt
tne commune s tieasuij
Ptaetiarsl, N. C, centre of eutdaor ttMrti.
Hold Carolina. Uolly Inn, BcNiahlr. fiiw
pan. at.
1916. Copyityht, 1916, by the Sun
RAILROADS JOIN IN
Dili JJMIMIjU fLAW!
j Their Sun-committee Consults
Hie Win Pcpnrtincnt on
Mnhili.ntion.
IFOR CLOSE COOPKII.VTIOX
Army Wnr College Is Work-
j ins1 Out ;i Scheme to He
Submitted.
i
WvsHiNmos. Jan. 21. Active nego
tiation nre under wav between odlelals
of the Yv'ar Department and representa
tives of all the leading rnllroadi of the
country except those In New Kngland
looking to nn arrangement under which
the equipment of the roads might he
placed at the disposal of the Oovern-
I meiit for purposes of troop mobilization
in time of war.
The railroads have appointed a com
mittee headed by Palrfax Harrison,
president of the Southern Hallway, to
work In conjunction with the Depart
ment. To-day a suli-commlttee of that
committee, consisting of ChalrincH II. I
llevlugtuii of the Transcontinental Asso
ciation. (', L. Hunter of the Trunk Lines
.Woclntlon. Mr Donald of the Central
Itallronds Association. Mr. McIeod of
the Western Itallroad" Association and
. .. . o . 1...1.
""","-tJ","r" ' PrtmPi.t.
. . ... .. 1 .
""" '
Suggestions for uch cooperation he-
twe 11 the railroads and the (Jovernnietit
Wen. tlrt limneheil In the .annual in. s-
sage read to Congress by President Wll -
son last December, when In referring to
the Administration's national defence
programme he said
I take Is for granted that I do not
need jour authority to call mm sys
tematic consultation with the directing
officers of the army and navy men of
recognized leadership and ability from
among our citizens who are thoroughly
familiar, for example, with the trans
IMirtatlon facilities of the country and
therefore competent to advise how
tlnj may he coordinated when the
need arises, those who can suggest the
best way in which to bring about
prompt cooperation among the manu
facturers of the country should it be
lesessaly and those who could assist
to bring the technical skill of the roun
try to the aid of the Government In
the solution of particular problems of
defence.
At the Lonferencc to-day the discus-
.,., .lelt tirlnelnallv with five general
problems of i oupera'tlon to be worked
out. some of them dependent. It is said.
on legislative .unction T!n--e problems
w. le divided as follows
I lievisimr of a necial in 11 tarv rate
tariff to lie Hvalle.1 of by the military
forces of the loiiiitry for the traiisporla-
..,.. ...,,,,,!,,. I,, nn,,. of
ar and under which the shipment and
tuning of supplies and settlement of
account" could b" bandied with the
greatest ea-e ami dcspstcli.
2. The enrolment of railroad otfbe-s
as icserve officials of the iiuarierinas-
ter's department, provided Congress en-
acts Uglslatlon lo create a reserve, these
ofTuials to be subject to the call or the
.1. Cooperation between the War In
u,,r-
(imlnnons Cooperation.
I l',.l...i,..oi- nl Information between
t. railroads and the Department from'
, , tm(. , ,); facilities of the
f"rnl,.r llM,i ,,, needs of rhe latter ie-1
Hpectlng rnlltoad equipment in time of
wiir e.rg.ncv
' ! .;,,. .,,, w,,h ,l,e Denart-
,,,, i '.I,.,. ,,t .ir might lose no tlni
in lrlluh.itimlng such iqulpment as It
in I eouislwnilliiK sucn m'in.'in an a
"IV ..'eed and under which the railroads
. ... ...
,lllK,t cooperate In the most tapid trans
,ul,,,,,in ,,r tnems from nlace to nlace.
. . .i .
runs i.ir no imKr.iuiiii. eAciiangeti
.,.., i, ,,ii... i...... i !'... ,rn.,i.. ,
enough form. Department olllclals assert.
to perinii puoiictiMMi ... nnj . me .1.-
talls, These omciais. nnwever, epre-
I otic manner In which the railroad ollt- j
: cials appear to be approaching the prob- i
hrii. !
COIINinera Ole ,1 . , ,,. t. , , ,-,ri i.ir rtiii- '
Secretary Garrison sahl to. night that
as far as the discus-tons with the gen
eral committee of the rillroads have
gone, they have been limited to all
agreement that at the convenience of
the Secretary a Joint conference of the
committee and the General Staff of the
army will be held In the near future
when a I'nmprchen-lvo list of silgges
Ar.ny War College have bee,, at work I
,. ,i.u un.-estlnii- umler il... e.,r..i
tiervisiim'
rt'l
!
. T. : . '",
slipe
Th
been
YUAN POSTPONES CROWNING.
ruary l'J
II.IS IICIII lOSIpOlietf 111,1,. I .
liltri'v.
em China'
IllK to the uprising 111 south-
NotHlentlon. of the change was made
to th- various legations by Ihe Korelgn
, .mi ... .1... ...I.I..I. ... .,. ... .
Office to.ilav, which stati-l that the
original iirrangenients of tin. Chines. '
Government had been ceniiiteniiaiideil by!
Yuan following the outbieak In Yuntinti. I
No hint was given as to when the ,
ceieuiony would lake plac
but It Is I
estimated by officials that lis robelllon
...I...UI
In Vilitnaii will Ini iiileted within six
month" at the latest.
BET ON U. S. STEEL DIVIDEND.
Wall Slreel Oilels e,n l einiinon Are
",011 to flllll tRnlnst.
Theie was much specubitlon n Wall
Slieet yesterday with regard In the
meeting next Tuesday of the directors of
,hl. ,.!,,,! States Steel Coloration as
. . .. .....! . .
to whctliei or not they will declare a
iliviiienu on me common siock.
Kiel Schutum. the llrooklyn betting
oomiiilssloiier, yesteiday was offe,ng
;'iiii to fllno that the director- will
elate a dividend He was also offering
to bet ffinn even money that the dividend
will be at Hie late of 4 per com. or
tsttur.
Chinese H. liellloo the Cause -e .,,,., for tlie edlfj Ing waj In which Joll German frontiers It will o..a ... nr proceeiiing thing the sea.-o
l.i.lc set for Cere....,,,,. have once more given expression to you. thuslastl, wherever on an I or s 'a h. vi ! ! the 'lib. u in '
i.o.r..,. can assure jnu. and beg jou German sol. lie.. f.... ,i,. .... " "aNP iro-ti the Aih.iiii.in
Pr.KIN. Jan. 21 -- he .s.iv.uallou of , ,.,kt. lhs assurance home with you. a.e dlffcence- of opinion btVween iiir of si ,,,,,,
Vila,, Shlh.kal as l-.mper,.,- of China. , ,,. ,e Gov ernment will find right wajs.tl,., .,,out est,on- , ,.-Mc no " ' ' '
which was to have been held on IVb-1 "... ,,. of ...iiilshliui sharnlv and em- ' such as .h . i.r,..., ... ,1 ', ,f,1 ,
Printing and Pubthhing Ansociatlon.
Expect Attack bv Teuton
Fleet With
Germans Preparing Naval
Paper Says New Armament Will Far Outclass
That of British Ships, It Is Declared.
NEW GUNS ALREADY
fiptcia! Cahlr He,palc to Tn Scs.
l0NtM.v, Jan. ;2 (Saturday). T.ie
Unity Sun, gives prominence to an ar
ticle suggesting that the Hermans are
'preparing a nnvnl suiprlse for Kng-
land. The nrtlcle says the Hermans
nre nrinhur their new battleships with
IT Inch guns. The MKu Xru-t adds
i " Mi"e,i the shells thrown Into
Dunkirk mnin time ago were tired by
17 Inch naval guns.
The ((idjy .v,rfi nsserts that It knows
"uron the highest authority" that the
statement In the Daily .Vrics regarding
the 17 Inch naval guns Ik true.
The writer of the Daily .Vetrt arti
cle expreie.s fear that the (Iritlsh will
be caught napping. He recalls that Ger
many and Austria onncenM the over
whelming power of the howitzers which
demolished the llelglan and ltusslan
fortresses. Experts of the allied nations
had poohpoohed them, but the experts
were proved to Ixv wrong,
The writer asks anxiously whether
Hrltaln has nn effective answer to the
German 17 Inch guns. He Infers that
the new German battleship Hlndenburg
Is armed with these guns and expresses
the personal conviction that there Is a
reasonable probability. If not certainty,
that sooner or later a homogeneous Ger
man battleship squadron armed with
17 Inch guns will appear In the North
Sea.
"It Is obvious." he add", "that a Hln
denburg armed with 17 Inch guns will
1 outclass an Invincible (the moderri
nrmsn oauiesnip ivjie; nnnen wnn
smaller gun as absolutely as the Jn-
I na-iwie nuiriasseo .vuniirni vim ri'eee
snips on ine haiKianu i"ianus.
AW FLIERS DEADLY.
HnmhiirK Paper Snja They Doom!
Ilrlfnln sioiiii to IttncL London.
rrrinl Cable le.polc. fo Tar Scs.
Ixvnpon, Jan. 21 The greatest Inter
est Is manifested here in the recent
achievement of the new German Kokker
aeroplanes, wiilch
have been 'irouslng
r sever.1 d ivs and
r several nays ann
public attention for
were the subject of debate in the House
debate in the House
ila.. Mo. The ..fii.
of Commons a few dais ago. The effl-
the aeroplane continues to be
us amazing. The Germans as -
clency of
OfKvTioeu as aviitiftiiiK, i or wcrinanN an-
1 eert that since Deeemb'r 1 It has de-
i stroyed three blpLmes, ten battle ,iero-
planes and one monoplane.
, The following description of the ma-
. nine w.i" given ro ine corr. sponaeni or
Thk Si s bv an expert
rue new rosacr aei-n uaiie is a very
smill monoplane wlt'i a large engine
"ANY MEANS
BAR ALONG"
ble Britannia Is Pictured as "Jeering and
Whistling at
.sKo.rl 'nMe ;'rA la Tnr Sis-
l viutv .inn "1 While the HaraloriG
,s runtlnuis to furnl"h the German,"', "u "'ny we must ueci.i-
rl""'" vitriolic at- ,V ,,r"." I;":',""t x lWv"
P-'D r-. with a subject foi vitriolic at- nM1, MlU ,n ni-lko ,m. nl(, f
tacks on England, coupled with a iiuanl- respected as far as possible,
,0. .leniand for Immediate retaliation, J";" "' '" " dictate of patriotism. We
. . .. ... ..a... ,,..r, of f' ' ' "'". "r '"","r "' "'''
the reprisals to be taken Kear I" ex-
'
.
pressed In some circle- here that Ger-
... . .... ... .1.1.... 11-1.
many win uecioe io ea.cme unuj
Ish olllce rs now prisoners of the Ger-
rumor is otter, repeated arm
;, .,.. n I liono.slhle
t trace Its snuice to an olllclal Infor-
miition, mil ii is ceri.uo 10... nirnr,,,
(.ton Is forthcoming io sajiiy me imo-
,vi,ch demand" 'fearful punishment of
England's degradation "
The complete text of the statement
j. ciailim VOICCI ........... j-.'
made in tne itficiiriaK o. i'i. ..uoiii,
mann. I'ndrr Secietarx of the l orelgn
Ottlce. on behalf or the Government roi-
....
"With the most sincere satisfaction I
am nb ' in the mime of the Government
rno.e .he uau.ml.,;wi, which you. In
common with the German people and
the German Government, denounce tnis
disgraceful lumping cii-e vou nave
appropriately b.-anibs I, as a horrlb.
?'?!, an" we It neeil" nei f rtlier
LngUsll lin-wei It neeiis no iiimier
unanimity the fact that sharp punish.
.....r.1- fi-oiii me to lay iiii.iitionai stress
I nient i- necessary
in, 11,1- rmllil nlso
the Government entirely agrees with . voir.
: ."., ... hntrll.le Heeil "
1"''"1""
IteprUal Clan Opposed.
The nlan for drastic reprisals Is not
sunnorted by the Socialist Deputy. Ilerr
i,edebnur, who makes the following
statement:
"If lepiisals are demanded they must,
n M1y opinion, not be allowed under any
circumstances to lead to the death of
person- not concerned in
sill II lll-l'iirt III.'
he Itaralong affair. In my opinion the
the Haraumg anair. in io oininon me ,
siihmarlne war must not go beyond the
limits llxed after the I.usitanla case. The
Government itself then declared that
ships would not be torpedoed without
warning. If winning should be no
longer given, that would be warfaie
which conlllcts with the principles pre.
vloiisly recognized by the Government
Itself, but as our Government has not
niade any such statement 1 hope that
her" will be no change,
nn 1 1 "o. n
"In view of various phrases uttered
),v several speaHeis. ami In view of the
utterances of .. par. of the pre--, the .
nrisrlon mluhl arl-e that it I- permls-1
de-.slble to toipedo slops without warning
Therefore It Is linpciatlvn In dcclaie lo
the wide elide of people not In iigtee.
mcnt with such views that measures of
reprisal are always a double edgad
I IllllIlK SOU 111 Hie IliMlir oi io e v.....,o- ,.,h . ,.,. ,. .,. .... .. ,
17 Inch Guns,
Surprise for England, London
USED AGAINST DUNKIRK
of between 100 nnd 150 horse-power.
It Is operated hy one man and Is fitted
with nn immovable machine gur that
fires straight through tho propeller.
Travelling at tremendous speed the pilot
generally mano-uvreM to get beneath the
tall of the machine he Is attacking, so
as to be safe from the fire of the enemy.
I'evr t'an Handle Thrni.
"It can make rings around the big
aeroplanes of the Allies nnd can get i
out of range of their guns almost 1n-'
stnntly, while its small size and the
bewildering rapidity of Its movement
make It the most difficult target In the
world to hit.
There is one consolation lor the
Allies. The number of Kokkcr aero
planes In use Is few, because only a
suporpllot m fly tiv-m. Tho pilot must
be a man absolutely without nerves and
Imagination, capable of taking the mnt
appalling risks with a cool head. When
landing the 1-okker machines are ex
tremely diingenius to handle. If forced to
come down In an emergency they would
be going between eighty and ninety
miles an hour.
"The Germans have only three or four
Pilots capable of tl Ing tl.e machine.
One of the best Is Lieut. Immelmann,
wh-v has accounted for eight or nine
allied machines In the last few months,
and has been decorated for ills services,
He Is ab-olutely fearless, but even so
never goes up without anticipation of
disaster."
The Msnchester f7iiorrfoil give
further details of the construction of the
Kokkcr machine, it says that the pro-
peller blades are titled with deflector
tdates, which turn aside the bullets
which hit the blades Only "tout live
or six bullets In a hundred are likely
to hit the blades, the remaining ninety-
o.ld p.isslisg between the blades straight
tor the target
"This deflector dodge." the tirrftoH
ays. "was first tried bv the t rencb
aviator Uolatul Garros.
Make Cone of Rnllels.
The favoilte metliod of attack lei for
the Kokker to get up high and hang
around until one of the Allies' machines
' appears In s.ght below.
tinnears In s.ght below. Then the Kok-
I U,"T tntids on Its head and dive, straight
' l"r " VloM,n' "?;",nR SZZ
nliets iu soon as It Is within range.
I "Hy milking the descent ever so
"Hy milking the descent ever so
Ullghtly spiral the straight stream of
fcllghtly spiral the straight stream of
' !'ul,e,H '""TTTv." X'il'Lilie' 2JT?hM
.the gun and the victim Inside, so that
1 whichever way the lower machine tries
I itilchever wav
to esciie It must pass through the cone.
"When the Kokker gets close to the
enemy It appioaehes directly from be-
hln-l. Drlnc straluOit along the bmlj so
as to have the pilot, passenger, tanks
aT) 1 1 engine all In ore line of lire, and
Conf iinirif on Second 'iii;e
TO AVENGE
GERMAN CRY
Humanity,
we'ipon If excesses r anj Kind are
colnmltled which ale Incomnailble Willi
'W , ... ,.,,, ,,, l.'K.llll IOI
humane behavior, as well In everything
el. .1... ul, .11 m. ,1 . .
-! "" "'e head of
.."i'.'i liiilliilie
Hrlllsli Note Denounced.
. . " . . ' ' 1 "t'OllelJ op.
-a cowardly mun'ar has bwn cm
milieu, ne so iii "nre llrltlsh nronosiil
to suiiinit the case to a tribunal amounts
crime. The llrlllsh note is permeated
bj a tone of self-sufficing arrogance for
which onlj foreign word- can Is- found.
... .1 1c1ui.11 IO give atOnCllierit fOC tile
Worst f all, Kngland actuallj dale- to
reptoacn German ttoops on laud ami
se,, crime- or a similar nature
Such an n-u ting cnlumnv reeoit.
I'" (mentor. Just as the liaroMug c
r-'"alns an eternal sta.u upon ,he name
"ZT" Cil!'' 7" V' l,rlN
" ' 'J' '""""tnent of shame to
,,,.. . . .. ,.' ' 1 "w ner, says .
; m u . v. ,, n ;;i .'rmneni
?" m"'""' 111 ''""I" - lm isl, th"
., . ,., ., ,, .V'"
ou'ghhe;e","',,': - "
-T4i
,, " "'.J . ,?Z lXi
J " reprisals
),., exs'renced an hour' of
l!:'!,?'.',' .r,h.'!'r mM "mm ,th
i..ici,.,aK supiMirts the Gov-
, " ""'s itself lippropil-
alely to teliuke and luatid berore the
oild l-.ngllsh peifldj and arrogance?
I.lebknecbt', ( onrse Is.nlleil,
"Vet there was one who had the un-
I"' aooin l ie laiH one .......
i7i 'lp,'K"',f'. o' course, whotn one could
t,k .. ,, . i'i lllll,
...it ., i.ii ill-ill lllllilli r li. I, ..I .
io,. .... i . . . " H.'i.
'...' . '"'r" C-'ons. a claim on our,
,Mlllltin. .,
'T,'(i
eii;:riiMiiri snjs .
I'ntll retently we lm, not eiilerrnine.i
a moment's doubt that the Tint sh Ad-
mlrally would visit exemplar) puni-h.
ineut on the perfietraloi s of cowanllv
minder who had disgraced their service
I lie itaralong case has iIIsIIUimoi,,-,! iH
Thus there Is nothing left but lo cease
an iiiscussioii or the matter. At the
same time we shall have legard also
that the llngllsh navy has placed on the
topmost sneit in li- lumber room- the
,,,,r.i i.Pllli,.1...11. ...M..' ' ,, ' , ,
, , ! . ' U, I '.. -h ... M , JdV.'.h
"K ,' ' , ' ' ,, . .' . ... .' 1,1
has long since been degraded bv them
to a term of obbnpi) 111 taiini.i Jeer-
and whistles at ju-ti. e and Immunity
So lie Hence she has no right lo ex.
l.cct thai we will enter into any nrgotlH- '
tloii".'' I
1
PRICE TWO CENTS.
MONTENEGRIN
PEACE PARLEYS
ENDED BY ARMY
Gen.- Martinovieli
Took
Mutter in Hand When
King Was Yielding.
'
II i 1 1,1,'n C O V1A1
i Ilix UiJ.W .lo O.AtHMl
OF "II LACK iMOrXTAIN"
Troops Kefuse to Surrender
and Will Continue the
Fight iny.
ALLIKS MAKE LAX 1)1 XW
OX JU'LtJAII COAST
Siit Kn'f' Alllll'C ill Pnl'lil
' J ' '
Lagos, hut Parly Is
Wit llil l"l li lt
it iiiuiiiin n.
7'"- "'" urily in whirl, runH , re.
pnrM hnrr rsirfopr,; ihi situation in
Montrnrura nr friiral ilaut i ilmrrd
b ,rs,.e, rrclr.d In, Tin; S N
' '
!"'" '""r rnrrr-uamlrnt MM (-,;,(
7Af mnfirmx thr report that .Itisfno
mode on nflrr of pi arc In Manlrnrprr.
, Vontrclr 0,crffrf ,,t
' .....
. "cjoffoMoit." hnrr f.rrn rfl-rosdtii.r,
.Is thr cpifci I'Mso! thruuph tht
Italian. 1'rrneli ami Jlritinh censor on
fftp rrPar,l.,l . aulhmH.
' , ,
Tl itr.ipatrh fallniet:
tpioal Cahtr Dripatvl. In Tnt His.
..... t . o. .. ..
Ito.vif. Jan. 21 Peace negotiation
I)P,WI. Au(,,r,, n(1 Montenegro IV,
,
''"h """" to the Intervr
Hon of Gen. Martlnovlrh. lender of the
antl-Austrlan partv In Montenegro, w ci
assumed command of the troo,. in
11
eluding the Serbian detachments aid -a
ciuuing me .eroi.ui neiacnnients am "
the Montenegrins, and opposed tin,
the Montenegrins, and opposed tin .r
"!,;,r,n'1 mfni- ,1,u" "Vetting the betray
, . .,,.. ..,...
of th' nlf b KIK Mcholas.
"he entire population balls Gen. .Ma
tltiovlch as the deliverer of Mom.
,.,. . eomplete eo,ii from i
I'ttle count rj' is evpecteil All effoil
are now being cono ntr.ited on tht ile.
fence of Scutari.
The r egotiatloii." were held In abej.
iince afier th" were cliteied .pou, owing
to King Nicholas's iiiflstrnie ni
.Montenegro's neiilralily .unl his rcfiiea'
to tooperate in the risioraiion of I'riu,-.
William of Wle.l as .Mpi.-t of .Mi,,ni
Meanwhile the situation was furllm
compllcatid liy the retus.il of the Ate
Irian and German Governmetiis to alio
the Itulgarlans to o ciipy inirazzo, win,,,
wai destined lo be the .MpletV capital
although It l lifr'steiirlj rumoie.l hei
that It had been prevlouslj promised !
them.
.Me.uiwhlle the Austrian" are .umln.
the Albanians, ho (re ,isi,n,., to ,,i
tack Dinazzo umlei the leadership of
I'rlnce William of Wle.l prime Will
lain is on the way to Cettlnje fiom
Pnzrend. He is bent upon re iiiirliig
Albania .m.1 js amplj euppheil with
money, which he l watienng broad
cast. Iheiebv nuginenting the number of
li's followers
Dflkial aiinoiincenieiii made her
to-day that the resilience of the Monte,
negiiii court and iliplomaii. -oi ps has
teen transferred to I, wins
, MONTENEGRO ASKS HELP
- .w
n lilies Musi Iff f rin
In
Cscniie Viinllilhilloii.
Ptliis
Jan
King N hol.ir I,
feni an urgent call '.o th
All is t,. ,
hi" fm
If Ihe latter ale lo ,t- .ii.e n
J"1"4'"'0" "' ""'' ""'i ami si
'!i '""""bate si,ppl .s ot
, 1 ' " ' , '.',Y. T" ,""","i'"'r "f ."Ulei)
iii.I ainmiiiKtioii aie .ihl.i.1 foi
.. ' ' ' V , , ,, , , ' ,, ,. '
"Montenegrin irniv Is V, ! i i . "'
,0' 1 " .tr " ',r.l".. ,s f'i'orlcil bv Kuin.
' r ;"''''. ''J;''' ''"'-"'w '
' ' ' ,f, " " ,) V et' t'n sf. o"
h- ' wi , .,!" ."ueTw I
b(, JolI1,, ,,( ,, ,!f j.,,,
islia.
ruler of Alhanl i
llmnted io mimbei
iu.non men
M,,,nw hlle. , spile of .,,.,,1,1- f,m
InZsuto In e' been?, "'i!'''
totite ne (.to have ,rcii broken i-T, the
1'vmV heats tlirouuli the Au-irlan capl-
f-,la:.:i':Hr,re:u,n:::;,;;;:rv,o:
Due AiiMio-Hiingariaii ,li.n,,n
sctorul is
si ag.iiii
sser si length
frontier and
ll lorneier
:.vami' rlow at rulcaria
lilies hell Porte, l.nuos. Then
I, a. id lie-,, le, Cut llaHivn,.,
I.OMios-, .l.lll. SI powerful ,ilti..,i
squailion, sixtien w.ir"hlp In all. pi
siimahly part of the Heel witlnlr i w n fr . n
the Dard. incites last Wed'ies.lav Iscn-
barded Porto l.igos. the Hulgarlan set
ll, I lie
. . . .
i -
ttnil on lie A. ue.ll, uni...
I1"1" "' . ii.t...in.....
list of 1 .
lilecU I io I'i 1 1 I'
ind about toil niile
of saloiilca The naval gim-e slier, i I
the poll - lb fen. e I'.iniion. wiierein.oi
f"r-l l"n,l"d
This force pioieeilcl northwa.il n, i ,.
dlrectlun of the Important Hiilgar in
'coastal r.iilwav, with the uhlret of , j.
ting it. bin wn- ni"t bj n superior In,
Rat I'm detachment and fenced 10 n'm
tli.iM i ... ."i iiiii ..in. eioi.i.i. eiiten 1 1
weie ilcstiii.veil plan- to the rcmharka
turn (in ihe same ilav an nlhcl qtrndmn
of wcnt -four units launched n vigor
ous lire igain.i I Hse. ig.ii' i, rhe chief
...... TI... II,, 1.. , pi.. .. I . . .
riulg.irian pmt on tin llgi.ii Th,. two
ei.t.iiepi. I i i... cn.nrfir.ir it ir.... ,,
attacks aie geneea u unilo siood hi'r
to b" Ihe opening of opera lions on i
Inige scale against the lliilg.irmn coas'
with the object of the landing of a large
fore nd Ihe ultimate aim of cuttlnr th
