Hav? Y uhi Saitt in ?G^ a
Your Order for * lit?
Sunday Herald
ici TTJH7
Ie HUH.
washing;
<*: ??,-?>
HERALD
AS hr.l ?imawMrd J*????! I 191 h TW r****W
fu*rantee? lull nn?ft ? ?fifth It. the taut? haaeit
ol ?rtKie? ?tdxTtitrd m th* diafiian - '?iumn? ' thi?
paper by am U ??hmftoti merihant
? ,, ?,??.. ?./-.
Mi :n>;,
WEATHER: WARM, CLOUDY
WASHINGTON. 1). C.? SATI'KDAY. ????G??? '2'2. 1!M<?.
om: (ENT
la V? ??klaii?? mme) fet?m*? ???few?-*??
Tkeeei* l I *l? ?* M? ?r ? ?*?. ? ?*?t?.
BANDIT LOCKS
GIRL AND TWO
ME?JNJ/A?LT
Robs Office of $800 After
Imprisoning Three
Victims.
SHOOTS POLICEMAN DEAD
Thief Escapes After one of
Boldest Hold-Ups in Chi
cago History.
_
MDED BY BLONDE WOMAN
Accomplice Escapes While Crowd it
Chasing Man with Leveled
Revolver.
ap?ela* V? Iba Waabtnctoa Herald.
Chicago, Jan. a.?A hold-up man at
tempted a doable murder within a few
eteri? of on? of the bualest corners ln
the Loop dtatrlet tonight. Hla flrst ahot
woonded one victim, and he killed Traffic
PoHcerman Brewer A. Johnson In hla
tracks. The shooting occurred In front
of the Cook Tourists Agencies at 15 East
Jackson Boulevard. Just a few steps from
the comer of State str?eet.
After shooting th? policeman, the rob.
ber, who had played a lone hand/In one
of th? moat daring hold-ups In the city's
history. Joined a woman In a taxieab
standing near the entrance to Cook's
Agency, the scene of the rob?bery.
H-Badi-eels Hear that.
The ahots brought hundreds nf per
sons.
The robber realised this almost In
stantly, Jumped out of the cab and ran.
The crowd followed, but he held them
back with leveled revolver and es
caped down an alley.
The woman left the cab on the heelt
of th? man. and, taking advantage of
the excitement, mingled with th?
throng and waa lost to sight.
Thursday afterroon a blonde woman
about 25. of striking beauty and hand
somely attired, walked Into Cook'a
agency and aaked abo-:t tripe to Pin
e-na After a few minute? emavarma
tioa. she said she would call again.
Thia afternoon at about the same time
?.ha woman called again. A man fol
lowed her into the agency, closing the
?loor behind him. When h? turned
around he held a revolver tn each hand
and gave the command:
Hands up'"
Lsrka Vintine In ?air.
Edward Stone, the manager, and Frank
Benelcha, a clerk, quickly complied.
B. L. Walsh, cashier, showed flght. Th?
robber fired. The bullet struck Walsh
In th? chest, but Its force had been
checked by the wire? of a cage, and It
Inflicted only a slight wound. The robber
than drove Walsh, who was still able to
walk, together with Benelcha and Misa
Ploxsynskl. th? stenographer. Into the
open steel vault, cloaed the heavy door
and turned the combination.
Then he locked the front door and took
between $Sfln and S9W out of the money,
drawer. Juat about the time the shot
was fired a taxieab with a blond young
woman as its only passenger stopped
near the agency.
E. D. Scott, who was passing when the
shot was fired, caled Policeman Johnson
from the State street crossing. They re
turned to the agency, but found the
door locked They sa? the robber leaf
ing by another door.
Th? bandit fired twice. The first shot
was enough. It pierced Johnson's heart,
and the policeman pitched forward, dead.
Then the bandit made hia escape. Later
the three men and the girl, almost suf
focated, were liberated from the vault
Dodges Subs By
Zig-Zag Course
Regina Italia Reaches New
York Harbor After Two
Narrow Escapes.
New Tork. Jan. a.?The Italian steamer
Regina Italia reached port today after
?iodflng submarines In the Mediterranean
and weathering heavy gales ln the stormy
Atlanti?.
Soon after leaving Naples a wireless
from a French steamer indicated that a
submarine was about fifteen miles astern
of the Italia. Full speed ahead was or
dered and the ahip'a cours? altered. At
sunrise the next day another message
stated that a submarine was ten miles
to the south of them, but the liner made
'3 l^yaltar without swing any of the un
-?erse* crait.
? Don t Want to Hear Bryan.
Columbia, S. C, Jan. a?The legislature
today adopt?**! a concurrent resolution
Inviting President Wilson to speak to
the South Carolina general assembly on
?"National Preparedness.*' An effort to
have William J. Bryan Included In th?
resolution failed
Say Germani Burned Belgian House?
Paria, Jan. 21.?German soldiers burned
'.t.yr. hous?-*. in Belgium dur.ng their coo
*e.-*t o' the kingdom, acconiing to fig
ures made public by the Belgian govern
ment at Havre today
President and Bride
Depart on Mayflower
President Wilson and Mre.
W?I901? boarded the yacht
Mayflower here late last
night and started on a pleas
ure trip which will last at
least until Monday. The
President and Mrs. Wilson
left after the dinner to the
diplomats, and only a few
knew of his departure. The
President took his stenog
rapher with him, and plans to
do some work on the speeches
to be delivered on his forth
coming stumping tour.
OPPOSES TAX
ON BELGIANS
Belgium Minister Protests to
Lansing Against High Rates
Imposed by Germans.
ENVOY SAYS LEVIES' EFFECT
WILL BE TO CRUSH PEOPLE
Not Expected Teuton Embassy Will
Answer Charges with Justifica
tion of New Taxes.
Charging that the German authorltlea
ln Belgium have lmpoaed exhorbitant
taxes on the people of that country, E.
Ilavenlth. the Belgian Minleter, laid he
fore Secretary of State Lansing yester
day afternoon a lengthy proteat from his
?overnment. Although the complaint Is
one In which the United States h*? no
diplomatic interest, the mlnlater pre
sented It in the same way In which the
various belligerents from time to time
have lodged wiyi this country, aa one of
the leading neutral powers and a signa
tory of The Hague convention?, protests
against atrocities and other alleged vio
lations of international law.
The Belgian Legation, tt was stated
here last night, expects to make the
complaint public in a day or twa. It
nata forth., it la underatood, that Ger
many, not content with seizing the ter
ritory of Belgium and demanding heavy
IndemniUes from the cities and towns
which have been occupied, haa. recently
levied new taxes, the efTect bf which
would be to crush the peopt* of the
country.
Although it was Indicated In German
Embassy circles last night that no reply
would be made to the charges, the opin
ion was expressed that lt waa no con
cern whatever of the exiled government
of Belgium as to what taxes the Qer
man government sees fit to Impose on
people living In the territory which Ger
many now controls.
The Hagaae Ralea.
Officials in Washington were Inclined
privately to regard the new tax levies in
Belgium as significant of the determina
tion of Germany to make the citizen* of
conquered territory contribute heavily to
ward the cost of the war.
The Hague convention of 1907 devotee
Articles tn and 49 to the rights of a bel
ligerent respecting the levying of taxes
ln occupied enemy territory. The?? ar
ticles read as follows:
"Article ??If. in the territory occupied,
the occupant collects the taxes, dues, and
toll? Imposed for the benefit of the state,
he shall do so, aa far aa is possible. In
accordance with the rules j?t assessment
and incidence in force, and shall in con
sequence be bound to defray the ex
penses of the administration of the occu
pied territory to the same extent aa the
legitimate government was so bound.
Article 19? If. in addition to the taxes
mentioned in the above article, the occu
pant levies other money contributions in
the ocupied territory, thla shall only be
for the needs of the army or of the ad
minlatration of the territory In question."
Article 50 statea that "no general pen
alty, pecuniary or otherwise, shall be In
flicted upon the population on account of
the acts of Individuals for which they
cannot be regarded as Jointly and sever
ally responsible."
Soumanians Contract Large Loan.
Geneva, Jan. ?1.?The Budapest news
paper etagul states that the Roumanian
government haa contracted a loan for
S57.50O.O00 in London, the cereals crop be
ing pledged as security.
Tentons Take 3,000.000 Men
Amsterdam, Jan. 21.?The German
alltea have captured 320,000 square miles
of territory since the war began, ac
cording to the estimates of military ex
perts in Berlin. The other captures by
? the German allies include 3,000,000 priso
ners. 10.000 guns. 40.000 Maxims and 50,000
1 rifles.
High Honor for Czar of Bulgars.
Vienna 'via Amsterdam), Jan. 21.?Em
peror Francia Joseph has appointed Czar
Ferdinand, ot Bulgaria, a field marshal
la the Austro-Hungarian army in recog
nition of the achievements of the Bul
garian army In Servia.
Lose 300.000 Men in One Battle.
Paris. Jan. 21.?The Journal, quoting
'. Swis? military experts, states that the
! German? lost rjoo.ono men in the battle in
j ?.'hampagne last September.
Baltimore aad Okie te Baltimore.
11.50 round trip every Saturday and
Sunday; good returning until ? a. m
Monday ?Adr.
SAYS DEMOCRATS !
WILL BE JUDGED !
BY DEFENSE ACTS
Mayor Mitchel Tells ?Security
Congress Party Is Expected
to Furnish Preparedness.
__
NOT FOR MILITARISM
Speaker Says American Peo
ple No ?Longer Gin Count
on Continued Peace.
GOMPERS INDORSES DEFENSE
Sends Letter Urging Military Training
for Masse??Merchant Manne
Advocated.
Asserting that the American people can
no longer count on continued peace, and
advocating preparedness but not mili
tarism, John Purroy Mitchel, mayor of
New York City, said last night before
the National Security Congress In Conti
nental Memorial Hall that the efficiency
of democratic government wa? on trial
for Ita Ufe.
"We are passing a gTeat national
crisis," said Mr. Mitchel, "and we are
In the hands of * national democratic
government. They are repponsible, and
efficiency of the democratic government
Is on trial today at it never was before.
Democracy must recognise that we can
not count on continued peace and must
teach Ita citisene that military duty must
go with civic duty. Will they make
democracy efficient and able to perpetu
ate Itself?"
'??imprr?* l.?tt?r Read.
Mayor Mitchel advocated "military
training for the whole male population
of the country," starting with the boys
at adolescence and later training them
as adulta.
Henry J. Hardy, representative of the
American Federation of Labor, read a let
ter from Samuel ("ion pers etronly advo
cating naval and military preparedness
and the Introduction of athletic training In
the public ach?*H)ls. eu*-h training, aald
Mr. Gompera I? tba letter, would maka
for "better preparedneSR fnr th?? dutiea
of life aa well aa for mllltiry duty."
"The basts of national defense is
strong, well developed citizenship," de
clared the letter from Mr. Gompers, "and
national defense is but one phase of na
tional life." Mr. Gompers advocated the
training of the masses for military
service, the rich and poor serving on an
?".quality, and the paying of the people
for the time lost from their labor.
"Organized labor Is aarainst war, vet we
bellev? Its Interests am best cared for
by provision against war." he said.
Senator George E. Chamberlain, of
Oregon, author of a bill providing for
a military scheme similar to that ol
Austria and Switzerland, said his heart
CONTINUED ON ???? TWO.
Indemnities for
Massacre Sought
At Request of Texans, State
ment Prepares Basis
for Formal Claims.
Depart r
Under pressure of appeals from the
people of Southwestern Texas, the State
?Department yesterday began to assemble
all evidence ln connection with the mas
sacre of the seventeen American citizens
at Santa Ysabel, Mexico, with a view
toward presenting a formal claim on the
Carranza government for an Indemnifica
tion of the widows and other relatives
of the murdered men.
Representative William R. Smith, of
Texas, is responsible for setting the
wheels of the department ln motion In
this direction. Armed with a sheaf of
telegrams from the residents of the Six
teenth Texas district, he went to the
department and Informed Secretary
Lansing that his constituents deeply re
sented suggestions emanating from
Washington that the State Department
was not sure it could hold the Carranza
government In any way responsible for
the outrag*.
Death to Americans ln Mexico and de
struction of their property, as well u.
war to a finish against Carranza, was
determined upon, it became known here
last night at a formal convention of
Mexican revolutionary leaders. It was
held in November at a ranch near Cor
doba.
Present trp* Joining In the agreement
are ?aid to have been representative?
of Villa. Zapata. Argumedo. Higlnlo
Aguilar, the Cedilllo brothers and many
leaser chieftains.
Bandits Lock Cashier in Vault.
Culver City, Cal.. Jan. a.??Masked
bandits entered the Culver City Bank
this afternon and. after beating the
cashier Into uncon?scioii-?ness, locked him
in a vault, and escaped with a sum of
money, the amount of which at this time
is not known.
Ancona Bodies Found.
Rome. Jan. a.?A number of bodies or
women and children who lost their lives
in the destruction of the Italian liner
Ancona by a submarine were picked up
today off Fimo in Calabria.
Brookland Body Approves
Herald's Pension Crusade
Citizens Declare That Police and Firemen's Retirement
Money Is "Just Debt" ? "Cyclone"' Davis Makes
Democratic Campaign Speech in His Nice, New Collar.
The Brookland Cltisens' Associ?t Ion
last night adopted a resolution cnllni
upon Congress to recognise police and
firemen's pensions as legal debts of the
District and that they be provided for
as one of the general revenues of the
city. The reaolution, Introduced by 8. D.
Boes, read :
?Resolved, That the Brookland Citisene'
Association does hereby approve the
thought of The Washington H**rald when
lt stated that pensions for both police
and firemen was 'a juat debt' and that
proper pensions should be provided, and
b? it further
"Resolved. That the Commissioners and
others having this pension matter In
hand b* requested and urged to hasten
the paseage of a bill at as early an hour
as possible, so that these men entitled to
pensions, and who have earned same by
falthfuly performing every servii de
manded of them in line of duty, may no
? longer be harassed by late and short pay
ments or ln any way delayed in receiving
jthe juat pensiona due them at the end
of e?f*h calendar month."
The campaign of the Retail Merchant*'
j Association against false advertising was
commended by the Brookland citicene,
| and 8. G. Quinn, E. C. Saltzman and
Charlea Kracke were named a committee
to co-operate with the merchants.
l>e?r>tte his denunciation from the floor
of the House on Thursday of the styliph
sports of the twentieth century. Rep
resentative "Cyclone" Davi?, ef Texas,
appeared before the aaaoclation with an
immaculate collar shining through hts
beard.
"The devil entered th? Garden or
Eden, and made a speech. It went Re
publican, end ever since the struggle
has been going on between <*od's peopt?*
and the other fellows," said Reprewnta
tlve I>avis.
Girl Reporter Swears Negro
Said He'd Stand by Mrs. Mohr
By SOPHIE TREADWET-U
Providence. R. I.. Jan. a.?Just l>efore
court adjourned |n tha Mohr trial this
afternoon for the receee until Monday,
the State called Miss Gertrude Steven
son. Her appearance as a prosecution !
witness was quite unheralded and unex
pected, but probably no one?not even ?
Oorge Healls nor Florence Ormsby?has I
given more damaging testimony against
both Mrs. Mohr and the two colored
boys.
Mis? Stevenson la a reporter nn * B<*>s
ton newspaper. Just after Brown, Spell
man and Healis were arrested, she went
to inter\lew them ln the Bristol jail. She
did not tell thorn she wa? a reporter. She
?aid she had Just come from Mra Mohr,
"Brown told m? to tell Mrs. Mohr to
be sure to say nothing about the motor
cycle, that he would say that his wife
had saved enough money to pay for It.
He said, 'Will you go to aee my mister
and tell her to say that I waa at her
hou?* the nijrht of tho shooting?
"I told them that 1 liad just come
from see t ? it Mrs. Mohr. Healls asked
how she felt, and I said: "She feels prei
ty badly.' and Healis said: 'Tell her not
to feel badly. If she sticks to us we will
stick to her.* Brown said: 'Tell her to
get me a lawyer.'
"I asked them why they had eonf-ssM
and they said they hadn't, and Brown
SUB DISPUTE
NEARING END
Lusitania Case May Be Settled
at Conference Next Week
with Von Bernstorff.
BELIEVED ENVOY WILL BE
GIVEN POWER TO PROCEED
New Legal Question Injected by De
mand of Insurance Companies
for Indemnity.
Secretary of State Lansing and Count
von Bernstorff. the German Ambassador,
are expected to meet early next week for
another, and perhapa final, conference
looking to a settlement of the Lusitani?
controversy. t'noflVia! advices reached
Washington yesterday to the effect that
the Berlin foreign office has sent the Am
bassador a aet of instruction? enabling
him to proi-eed with the negotiations,
and although up to a late hour the Ger
man Km bo as y had not been officially ad
vised that the communication had start
ed. It has been expected for several days.
Whether the conference next week Is
to end In a final adjustment, or whether
further exchanges will be necessary be
tween the Kmbassy and Berlin, it was
authoritatively stated last night, will de
pend entirely on the nature of the In
structions now- on. the way. If, as is
hoped In German Kmbassy quarters.
Count von Bernstorff has been given a
certain latitude, lt Is confidently predicted
that a formal settlement will be reached.
If, on the contrary, the foreign office
has restricted Uie Ambassador aa to the
exact language to be used in the agree
ment. It is expected that further negotia
tions will be necessary.
A new les?! question has arisen ln the
Lusitania case through the efforts of
insurance companies to collect from the
German Government money paid out on
policies held by Lusitania victims. State
Department officials announced yester
day that several Insurance companies had
taken prellmnary steps to file < lalma
aganst any sums that may be paid by
Germany to indemnify families of those
killed. This raises a l?sai Issue whl? h
must be met, officials said, before In
demnity payments can be made.
-__
Kills Son-in-Iaiw.
Woodbury. N. J., Jan. II.?Mrs, Charle
Cagby .?"hot and fatally Injured her son
in-!aw. William Shaw, today ?hen th?
latter tried to enter Mrs. bagby's horn?
to talk to his wife. He haa bee?
separa ted from her for som? timi.
said that He-alia hnd become nervous.
Healls then said: ? didn't apill any
thing.' "
Mlas BN-ff testified that she ?ent
ba? k to the Jail the next day and that
Brown slipped a piece of paper to her
with the request that she give It to his
??iste*-, that it was his alibi. Misa Steven
son sal?! that hr gave this pai>er to Chief
Robblnc.
Mrs. Florence E. Barney. Mrs Mohr's
laiidlad>. was put on the . tand by the
State to corroborate Heal ?a' testimony
that he had called to m- Mrs Mohr the
night of the murdfr.
She testified to seeing Brown the night
of the shooting and hearing Mr*. Mohr
discuss with him "something about
Charlie going to Newport.*'
Elsa Mueller, formerly emHoyed by Dr.
Mohr as housekeeper, was asked
"Have you ever had an} talks with
Mrs. Mohr about the doctor***
**T s. j-he aald she 'was through wWh
th?**? doctor, Sh*- did not wish to have any
thing to do wtth him; she ?aid she had
dosed the door against him for nearly
two years. At Newport. Mrs. Mohr waa
at the house and she looked around and
said, '.Never mind, If I'm not here now.
I will be soon, for I'll get him yet.' She
I also spoke of Miss Burger and aaid tf
she ever came In the house again 'She
? would get hem.* "
AUSTRIA HITS
MONTENEGRINS
Three Armies Renew Offen
sive in Attempt to Extermi
nate Little Kingdom.
ESSAD PASHA'S ALBANIANS
WILL HELP DEFEND SCUTARI
King ot Doomed Mountain Nation
Said to Have Implored Allies to
?Send Aid Quick.
Special Cable to Tb? Waahlnct.m Herald
L?ondon, Jan. -I.?The Austrians have
replied lo King Nicholas' return to the
|war by a swift and determined effort
to exterminate the Montenegrin army.
Three Austrian? armies hav?- renewed
'their offensive with redoubled violence,
according to a dispatch published ln the
Paris Tempe.
I Gen. Koevess is advancing on the line
jof Cettinje-Podgorltsa. Another detach*
ment Is moving *aouth along the Adriatic
coast toward Antivari. ? third army, in
northern Albania, is concentrating for an
attack on S*Sutarl, from which place the
| Austrians ar? now only about ten miles
| distant.
A large body of Montenegrin troops is
falling back to Scutari, win r. city. It Is
reported, the Austrians were willing to
relimiulsh to Montenegro, and there,
Kssad l'asha has already arrived with
! 20,000 friendly Albanians to help defend
? it against the Austrians.
Essad. who since the advent of Princ?
I William of Wi??d. has been strongly anti
! Teuton, declared war against Austria
; and Bulgaria in January. This move tc
defend Scutari acainst Austria is his first
active participation In the war on tht
' allies' side.
The Paris Journal says the King has
1 already sent a dt ?.pairing cry for help
? and Implored the allies to send their
I fleets to bombard the Austrian rear and
to ? nah f.*iod to his army.
"Without these," he Is quoted as eay
I ing, "I canont be responsible for the
? future."
It is announced from* Vienna that the
i foreign office has received no official Ad
vices that Its p?eaee terms ??have b?een
rejected by the Montenegrins.
Roosevelt Not to Trail Bryan.
? New York, Jan. 21.?Col. Roosevelt hai
no intention c! trailing William J. Br\ar
! if Bryan trails President Wilson when
'the President makes his preparan? ss
' stumping tour. The Colonel ? secretary
uiaiie this statement today.
THOUSANDS LEFT
WITHOUT HOMES
BYJIGJLOOD
Property Loss Enormous in
Deluge Sweeping Chicago
and Its Environs.
WATER SUPPLY MENACED
Desplames and Fox Rivers
Overflow Banks. Sweeping
Manv Homes Away?
?CE BLASTED TO START FLOW
District from Joliet to Aurora Thrcat
ened^On? of Worst floocU in
History of Illinois.
Pi??-??) t.. The Wfuhirttrtna Herald
Chicago. Jan. 21.? Thousand* todey are
homeless, millions of dollars' worth of
property has been destroyed and dam
aged, and the health of every r#**ident
of Chl<-ago and Ita environs has been
endanirerpd as the result of the moat
disastrous flood In the history of Illinois.
A rwtml rainfall for January, reaching;
nearly two Inches, caused an overflow
of the Desplalnes River, brought a ria*
In the Fox River to a point where dyna
miting was resorted to, and flooded the
Chicago River until It was thought that
its flow would be diverted into the lake,
imperiling the water supply.
The greatest damage was reported in
th? Fox River district, where bridges
were swept away, some carried down
the rivt-r. snd thousands rendered home
less. Jolf^t witnessed the worst flood in
Its history. .More than 2.000 were driven
from their homes, and many were res<med
? from drowning by means nf rafts and
boats.
The Fox River roe*? more than seven
inches Men with dynamite were sent
down the river from Joliet to Aurora
In an attempt to break the Ice and per
mit the water to flow freely.
Mi?)..on<l Is Menare*.
May wood was 5er leu ?O y menaced by
the overflowing: of the Desplalnet
River. At several points more than
four feet of water flooded the streets
and the hornee of thousands were Im
periled. Late In the day the river wai
registering a riae of six inches, with
no relief In sight.
In Chicago the greatest da mag'
caused by the deluge was the flooding
of thousands of basements, the Inabil
ity of the sewerage system to carrs
away the water, the flooding of on*
of the big pumping stations, resulting
in the contaminating of the supply ol
drinking water, and the crippling ol
the telephone and street car systems.
Thousands of families residing Ir
basements were driven from theli
homes. In many cases they were res
cued only with difficulty. In the vi
cinity of Chicago ?Lawn, the *ituat?|r
was serious.
Six feet of water stood in the streeti
In the residential section of Joliet
lighting plants, telephone stations
schools and street car systems wer*
thrown out of commission, and 2,00(
! persons were forced to seek refug?
when their homes were flooded witt
water.
Mooaefcear? Hit Hard.
Mooseheart. the home of the Ix?a
Order of Moose, where the order's Indus
trial school is located, hss been flood*!
and men were working feverishly t?
check the rise and prevent the breaklni
of a dam which Is holding the water bach
The Calumet River district wa* undei
three feet of water. Furnace Are? in al
of the big industrial plants were extln
guished and thousands had to leave thei
homes. A property loss of more thai
$100,000 Is estimated. The main sectloi
of Hammond was a miniature lake. Mon
than a doxen towns in the district hav?
been damaged.
At Rockford, Ottawa, La Salle. Stre
ator, and La Monte, the rains have drivei
thousands from their homes and havi
wrought much damage.
WILSON SENDS LETTER
FOR INVALID'S JUBILEE
President Greets Brooklyn Woman
Who Will Celebrate Her Fiftieth
Year in Bed.
President Wilson yesterday nave direc
tions that a letter of sympathy be sen)
to Miss Molile rancher, of It? Gate? are
nile. Brooklyn, uho on February 3 aerili
celebrate what she calls her ?rolden
jubilee, commemora ting her fiftieth yeai
In bed as an an Invalid. Miss Fanchei
has it-sued beautifully emboseed card?
Inviting her frienda to this jubilee. Thi
cards read:
"Molile Kancher announces her golden
Jubilee testimonial. Thursday, Februar)
3. 191&, : to ?5?8 to li."
Miss Kancher sent one of the Invita
tions to the Preaident and explained flu
circumstances to him. He immediately
directed that a letter stiou'd be aent tc
British Vote More Men for Kavy.
I-ondon. Jan ?1?A vote lor d?.<??> ad
aiitional ofM' era ar-.a men for the British
navy was agreed upon tn the hoiaee of
vommons this ailcrnoua.
tHKK ?????S? ARD TRARSPOITS
Testons Clalw*. Brillali l^al Thrvm
?kip? Durlee n.M^*aaaa?a?.
Berlin. Jan. tL?Tht ?eml-onaclal TTae?
Ocean News Bureau aiata*
"Competent German authorltlea declare
that durine December twenty-four ?hip?
among which were one British auxiliary
cruiser aad two British tranaport?. total
ing 1F4.7? too?. w?we deatroyad by Auetro
Oerman fleeU. Reliable report? reetard
Ing ship? destroyed by mine? and ool
llslona are ?till lacking. The real loaaes
of tbe entente alliea. therefor?. In the
aggregate, probably will not be lea? than
130,000 tona."
SCHWAB HOLDS
"STEEL FEAST"
Dines Twentv-rune Men of
M Who L?
Together
Millions Who Labored
CARNEGirS "BOYS" RECALL
TOILING DAYS OF YEARS AGO
Company Talked of Days Spent in
Pittsburgh Milli and Not of Mid
vale or Bethlehem.
l*I?rtal to Th? ?aatimctoo Hanld
. New York. Jan. 21.?Twenty-nine men
who. a acore of yeara ?aro ln overall?, ate
from their dinner pall? ln the ?teel mills
of Pittsburgh, had dinner together to
night in thl? city They were Um m
whom Andrew Carnegie delight? In call
tng "his boys." The t7.000.00? palace of I
: Charle? M. Schwab took the place of the
roaring, clanging ?cene of Industry, where1
they flret met.
Those present were Charles M
Schwab, Charlea W. Baker, W. R. Bal
? Inger. W. W. Blackburn. H. P. Bope.
?Albert C. Caae. William EHI? Corey.
William B Dickson. Thomas Morrison.
W. C. Mc'au?land. John McLoud. Gib
son Packer, James Gayley, Joseph E.
Schwab. A. R. Peacock. H. K. Tener.
?. H. l.'tley. Charles 1. Taylor, William
IL? Abbott. D. Q. Kerr. D. M. Clemson.
! James Scott. William P. Palmer. Robert
I A. Franks. E. S Mills. George E. Mr
Cague. J. J. Campbell. Axa ?. Hunt, and
Homer D. Williams.
For fourteen years they have met
annually at Andrew Carnegie'? home.
The Illness this year of Mr. Carnegie,
wl o la in Florida, cauaed Mr Schwab
to entertain them although abaent In
th? fle?b_ tbalr mentor ?ent a cardia!
letter.
"Ltd you talk about Mldval? or
Bethlehem SteelT" Mr. Taylor wma
aaked.
"No. we Just talked about Carnearle,"
he replied with a laugh. "We didn I
even talk about Krupp."
Asquith Want? Munition Worker?.
' I^ondon. Jan. 21?An urgent plea for
: more workers in munitions factories was
'made today by Premier Asquith t'rgent
1-rorernment ?action is necessary im
mediately. ** Mr. Aaqulth ?Id.
Po??e Seeks E?cap?J Corrncti.
Mo?**cow. Ar*.. Jan. a.?A shei-UT?'
posse, heavily armed, left here today for
a mountainous region several mile? dis
tant to ?-apture If possible ?ixty-flve con
victs who escaped from the penlntentlary
here ?everal day? ago.
RUSSIANS ROUT
OTTOMAN TROOPS
IN BIG VICTORY
Turks in Caucasian Theater
Overw+ielmed, Sabered
and Driven Back.
LEAVE ARMS IN FLIGHT
Success Marks Break in Turk
ish Center and Relieves Men
ace to Russian Territory.
ANOTHER VICTORY I* PERSIA
Czar's Troop* Captare SuhanaKad,
Nor Old Biblical City Whera
Either Woe a Thron?.
London Jan. II.?Tb? Ruaalana ha???
won another sweeping victory over the
Turka In the Caucausua. rep?lalos an
attempt of thai Ottoman troop? to break
through tbe Russian linea Tha Turka
?rere over? helmed, driven back aa far
aa the forte of Emnim. and saberad
by tbe hundreds
Fifteen hundred Turk? wer? alala or
taken piiaonera and lar re quantities
of mnnltlone wer? taken. Tbe defeat
of the Turks wa? an utter rout, and ia
their precipitate flight, they left their
arma, ammunition, and a vast ?nan
tit y of war material?. Piraarr*??-?
croarded the roada and were arathered
In by the haindreda.
According to a dlapatch tra the
from Petroarrad. military obaer
(here designate the laieet Russian ave
ce?? in the Cancasian theater aa a nota
ble victory. By the capture of Ko
prlkue t? e Ruaalana bar? wroatod from
the Turk? the strongest natural de
fensive possession on the way to Erre?
rum Thl? suoceaa? make? a break la tba
Turkish center and relieve? a ?re-ara
menace to Ruaalan territory. Rusalaa
advanced column? are now lea? tbaa)
thirty-five miles from the Turk? moat
Important atronathold.
la
Russian columns ? ai al lag ta Per?
? la bar? won another vtrtavry ther?,
accordine to a dispatch from Teheran.
They have ocarupied fluita ?al.ad wbl-fe
fa ll?f* miles aouthwaau of Teheran and
tixty miles southeaat of Hanaadan. th?
old Biblical city of Shualaane. wher?
Eether won a throne. The Russian of
ficial report isaued In Petrograd to
nirht aay?:
*"C?ucusus front?ln the coaat ?-?aci?n
the Turks atempted to dn\-e back our
troops, but were repul?*d ?rlth beaitry
"Our purfculna feroce captured the towm
of Hassan Kalahi itaetili mile? eaat ot
Krserum?. saberln?; or takln? oarer IMA
prisoners and capturinaj a fun. muck
ammunition, and a lare? camp of tenta,
tempted to capture a hill w? oocupteat,
but were repulsed.
''Northwent of 7.a bo rash an enemy bal
loon exploded In the air. tbe oar falline
Inside our linea."
PLACE YOUR ORDER
TODAY
WITH YOUR NEWSDEALER FOR YOUR COPY OF
TOMORROW'S
SUNDAY HERALD
ONE CENT
** Only by ordering it in advance ?can you make sure of getting
a copy. Tbe demand usually exhausts the supply ?early in the day.
January 9 ???????G??*.**.20,864
January 16 23?2?G-.28,284
(Audit Bureau of Circulations' Figures.) /
?an increase of almost one-third in one week?tomorrow'?
circulation will be still greater. Avoid being one of the disap
pointed ones*?send in this coupon or teU your newstlealer to
deliver a copy to you.
