Pp&
- 7- ' ! -
if j -
r-r-f'
HEW TO THE LINE; LET THE CHIPS FALL WHERE THEY MAY
ol. XXI.
GHIGAGO, JANUARY 22, 1916
No. IS
t
At the Special Meeting of the Members of the Appomattox
Club Last Saturday Evening the Proposition Was Ably
Discussed, Pro and Con, as to the Advisability of Expend
ing $10,000 to ponstruct ajn Addition to the Club Rooms,
on the Lot in the Rear of tlie Present Quarters
MAJOR ROBERT R. JACKSON, HONS. S. A. T. WATKTNS, EDWARD H.
WRIGHT, J. GRAY LUCAS AND FRANK L. HAMILTON LED THE
FORCES AGAINST THAT PROJECT.
HON. B. F. MOSELEY.I REINFORCED BY COL. JAMES H. JOHNSON AND
OTHERS, WERE THE MAIN SUPPORTERS OF THE PROJECT TO
ENLARGE THE QUARTERS OF THE APPOMATTOX CLUB.
PRESIDENT JOHN R. MARSHALL, AT THE END OF THE DISCUSSION,
SELECTED MR. MOSELEY AND TEN OTHER GENTLEMEN AS A
COMMITTEE TO REPORT BACK AT A LATER DATE TO THE MEM
BERS OF THE CLUB AS TO THE ADVISABILITY OF ENLARGING
THE QUARTERS OF THE CLUB TO THE EXTENT OF SPENDING
$10,000.
JULIUS F. TAYLOR INTRODUCED A RESOLUTION CALLING ON THE
PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF DTRECTORS OF THE CLUB TO INVESTI
GATE AND BRING-FORTH TO THE LIGHT OF DAY THE PERSON OR
PERSONS WHO SENT THE ANONYMOUS LETTER TO THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT WHICH CAUSED POLICE OFFICERS TO RAID THE
CLUB ON THURSDAY NIGHT, DECEMBER 23, AND ARREST EIGHT
OR TEN OF ITS MEMBERS WHO WERE CHARGED WITH GAMBLING.
-
Last Saturday eveninga: "'special
meeting of the members of the Appo
mattox Club was held, with the object'
in view of endeavoring to ascertain if
the majority of its members are-in fa
vor of expending ten thousand dollars
for the purpose of erecting an addition
to the present building on the lot in the
rear; many of those "who are generally
present and do a lot of talking were
absent and it remained for Major Rob
ert R. Jackson, Hons. S. A. T. Wat
kins, Edward H. Wright, J. Gray Lu
cas, and Frank L. Hamilton to lead
off in the discussion against that proj
ect; all of those gentlemen very ably
pointed out in the most convincing
manner the utter unwisdom of at
tempting to carry out or accomplish
ing such an object at the present time.
It was very forcibly pointed out by
tlie speakers that in case a two story
building with a dance hall on the first
Hoor, billiard parlor in the basement,
and card rooms on the second floor,
was erected on the rear end of the lot
lliat it would not add one dollar to
(bo value of the present property
that dub and church property as a
general rule was the worst property
m the world to either sell or to bor
row any money on that with ten
thousand dollars expended to improve
the building in the rear and nothing
ilmv to beautify it In front would
Minply be throwing real good money
to the wind and in the end would
iru a very bad or poor investment
m case conditions should arise in the
wituro that the property was placed
r forced on the market for sale that
it would be unreasonable to expect
that it could be used for anything else
fiept for club rooms or some kind of
iut-tory.
lion. B. F. Moseley. who was rein
ion ed by Col. James H. Johnson, and
'y several others of less importance,
wore- the main supporters of the proj
tvt or plan to enlarge the quarters of
the eiub rooms and near the end of
the long-drawn-out discussion Presl-
- v-
dejlf ."Jtffinr K. 'JSfarsliall selefcfed Mri'
.Moseley and ten other gentlemen as a
committee to figure it all .out on paper
and report back to the members of
the club at a later date as to the ad
visability of enlarging the quarters of
the club to the extent of spending ten
thousand dollars.
At the winding up of the meeting it
was clearly evident to our mind that
the vast majority of its uiciiilirs will
never be in favor of standing under
an additional debt of ten thousand
dollars on the present Holdings or be
longings of the club.
The following resolution was intro
duced by Julias F. Taylor which
speaks for itself; and President Mar
shall stated that the Board of Direct
ors would take some action on it and
their findings would be made known
at the next special meeting of the
club.
WHEREAS, it was authoratitively
stated at the late Inaugural Meeting
of the Appomattox Club, by several
speakers that this club had been raid
ed by the Police Department of the
City of Chicago on Dec. 23, 1915, at a
late hour in the evening, and that cer
tain un-named persons, members of
this club, were then and there ar
rested for the alleged offense of gam
bling; and
WHEREAS, it was then and there
stated by said speakers or by at least
one speaker, that the name of the
person was known who had written
an anonymous letter to the Police De
partment charging gambling at the
club;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOVED,
that the person or persons who stated
that they knew the name of the writ
er of said anonymous letter to said
Police Department, be requested to
name the person referred to as having
written such letter, to the end that
the stigma which may rest upon in
nocent person or persons shall be lifted.
CARE OF THE BABY IN WINTER.
(The first of a series of six articles.)
So much emphasis is constantly
placed upon the necessity for special
care of the baby in summer, when the
heat is excessive and diarrheal dis
eases at their worst, that the fact that
winter, too, has its special dangers for
the baby is sometimes overlooked.
But the combination of heat and di
arrhea is hardly more serious for
the baby in the months of July and
August, than are cold and respiratory
diseases in winter.
It is plain then, that the winter care
of the baby deserves special atten
tion from everyone interested in his
health and well-being.
It has been demonstrated quite con
clusively that a large part of the
deaths from summer diarrhea are
needless, because this disease may be
cured in many cases, and prevented
entirely in many more by the proper
care and feeding of the baby during
. - the'-Jiea.ted - months. The same doc-
"trlae'feiiowijeing applied to the
group ofwhat are commonly called
"winter diseases" of babies and chil
dren', namely, bronchitis, pneumonia,
'coids," and the like, which are, like
LAWYER B. F. MOSELEY WILL
SOON HAVE HIS NEW HOME
COMPLETED. IT IS BEING
ERECTED ON THE RUINS OF HIS
BEAUTIFUL TWO FLAT BUILD
ING. Along about the latter part of Oc
tober, or shortly after the first of No
vember, at 6 o'clock in the evening,
fire visited the home of Mr. and Mrs.
B. F. Moseley, 6248 So. Sangamon St,
completely destroying their beautiful
two flat building and burning up all
of the belongings of' TJr. and Mrs.
Moseley their daughter, Miss Bertha
Moseley, and Mrs. Jane Hammond,
mother of Mrs. Moseley.
Their complete loss did not unnerve
nor discourage Mr. Moseley, for im
mediately after the fire he ordered
plans drawn up for a modern resi
dence which will take the place of the
two flat building and when it is com
pleted it will be one of the finest .and
best appointed homes in this city.
Work on it is progressing very rap
idly and it will not be long before Mr.
diarrhea, to a large extent, prevent
able by the intelligent care of the ba
by, and by surrounding him with prop
er living conditions.
These proper living conditions con
sist both in winter and summer of
suitable food, in the right amounts, at
the right time, cleanliness, sufficient
sleep, plenty of fresh, clean air to
breathe, and protection from exposure
to infectious diseases. It is chiefly
the lack of these two latter require
ments that causes the winter illnesses
among babies.
It is not the cold of winter which
makes people sick, ordinarily, but
rather the stale over-heated air inside
our bouses and public buildings, which
we breathe and re-breathe, thus pass
ing disease germs about from one to
another. Babies are particularly li
able to be infected in this way, be
cause they spend a large part of their
time indoors, and because mothers are
apt to feel that to keep the baby varm
the rooms must be kept shut tight
A mother should use every means
in her power to protect her baby from
"taking cold," as it is commonly de
scribed. "Colds" are due to a germ
and are very contagious, being easily
passed from one person to another in
coughing or sneezing. A nursing
mother with a cold should tie a thin
cloth or veil over her mouth and nose
while nursing the baby, and should be
careful never to cough or sneeze in
his face, nor kiss him on the mouth.
She should be particularly careful not
to use her own handkerchief for the
baby, nor sleep with him, while the
disease lasts. Many babies contract
these colds by being taken up and
kissed by visitors, and it is a wise rule
to keep the baby away from the pres
ence of people who are coughing and
sneezing. The reason for this great
care as regards a baby is that a con
tagious cold is very often the fore
runner of bronchitis and pneumonia,
which diseases cause the deaths of
many' thousands of young babies every
year, and which are infinitely easier
to prevent than to cure.
Fresh air is the most effective
weapon with which to fight the dis
eases of the "respiratory tract This
does not necessarily mean cold air,
for cold air may be stale, and warm
air may be pure. The ventilation of
most American houses is faulty, since
in order to keep them warm enough to
i
HON. DANIEL L. CRUTCE.
One of Chicago's most popular citizens and prominent lawyers who would make
an ideal candidate for judge of the Superior Court at the judicial election
this coming June.
and Mrs. Moseley will give a good old
time house warming in their elegant suit us we shut them so tightly as to
new home. x make the air unfit to breathe, after a J
few hours. To counteract this ten
dency mothers should see to it that all
the occupied rooms of the house are
thoroughly aired at least twice every
day in the coldest weather, while in
moderate weather there should be as
nearly constant a supply of fresh air
throughout the house, night and day,
as can be managed.
When the temperature outside is
very low, the baby should be taken in
to a warm room while his nursery is
being aired, and at night his bed
should be shielded from a direct draft.
If there is a communicating room, the
window in that room may be opened,
if there is danger of chilling the air
of his sleping room.
If the cold is excessive, or if there is
a raw damp wind blowing or rain or
snow is falling, the baby should be
given his daily airing in a room with
the windows open, or on a protected
porch, dressing him warmly in out of
door clothinff. He should be taken
out during the middle of the day, for
a little while, never long enough to
run the risk of chilling him. This ap
plies especially to young and delicate
babies. As a child gets old enough to
walk about and thus exercise himself,
he can be allowed to play for some
time in an open room or where he Is
sheltered from the wind.
But an airing every day does not
take the place of fresh air In the
house, day and night, and to secure
sufficient ventilation for health the
mother must be on the watch to see
that the rooms are opened and the air
changed at frequent intervals.
. AN APPEAL.
A Benefit Matinee in behalf of the
Home for Aged and Infirm Colored
People will be given on the afternoon I
of Friday, Jan. 28, 1916, at the Grand
Theatre, State St near 31st, 2 o'clock.
It is very necessary that if this in
stitution is to continue its existence
large results must obtain from this
performance as well as a series of af
fairs that are about to be launched .to
clear off a current indebtedness of
over $1400 that is threatening the very
life of "The Home."
The matinee at the Grand Theatre
should be especially patronized in that
some of the best talent of the city,
both professional and otherwise, 'have
given a willing consent to appear.
Through the efforts of Mr. Julius N.
Avendorph, who has direct manage
ment of the Benefit, Mr. Bert Wil
liams, star comedian of The Follies,
has pledged $100 to the success of the
affair, and Mr. W. A. Johnston, presi
dent of the Stroll Amusement Com
pany, and manager of the Grand The
atre, has given the use of the theatre
free, as well as securing some of the
performers who will also donate their
services.
The Home for Aged and Infirm Col
ored People, the object of this Bene
fit, is now caring for eighteen inmates,
consisting of men and women, feeble,
aged, and some of them blind. To say
that they need the support of the pub
He but feebly expresses it To say
that the Colored men and women of
Chicago and of Illinois ought to sup
port this institution should not need.
to be said; but unfortunately, these
old folks, now in the twilight of their
lives, have been by the great majority
forgotten, and unless hasty succor is
given them they will very soon stand
in need of the actual necessities of
life. Every Colored man and woman
should feel obligated to help make
this Benefit a success.
SOCIAL DOINGS AT THE APPO
MATTOX CLUB.
The following are some of the social
doings at the Appomattox Club, 3441
So. Wabash Ave., during the remain
der of the present month.
Smoker and Card Party.
In honor of Mr. Bert Williams and
Prof. Just of Howard University, Sat
urday evening, Jan. 22.
Formal Dance and Inauguration of
Officers of the Ladles Auxiliary,
Friday Evening, Jan. 2S.
Patronesses Mesdames: J. R. Mar
shall, S. A. T. Watkins, Edw. H.
Wright, A C. Harris, Wm. Emanuel,
I. B. Anderson, B. F. Moseley, W. R.
Cowan, R. R. Jackson, S. C. Dicker-
son.
Complimentary Stag
To Dr. U. G. Dailey, Dr. W. A. Buck
ner Dr. T. T. Carlisle, Saturday eve
ning, Feb. 5. Cards and Billards ad
libitum.
Dancing every Friday evening.
Col. J. R. Marshall, Pres.
Dr. S. C. Dickerson, Chairman
Entertainment Com.
ROBERT H. JONES, JR., DD3D FROM
THE EFFECTS OF ESCAPING GAS.
Robert H. Jones, Jr., son of Robert
H. Jones, the expressman at 22nd St
and Cottage Grove Ave., who was for
some time manager and bar tender for
Dunn and Hight, 5050 So. State St,
and who resided at 5004 So. State St,
died in his rooms on Tuesday from the
effects of escaping gas.
Wednesday Deputy Coroner Michael
G. Wal3h held an Inquest over his re
mains and the jury returned an open
verdict His remains were removed to
the Emanuel Jackson Undertaking
Company headquarters, 2961 So. State
Street
J
j
. .-
.1 xt &"
-J"!- ? '
"i.
2JLa3J
ry -s-
iiU
R- -llr.
