ALBIJ QUERQUE MORNING- J OURNAL.
CITY
EDITION
CITY
EDITION
TiiiKTY-si:vi:Tir ykau.
Vl)U I'XI.IX. Xo. 22.
GENERAL SCOTT
F
ULLY APPROVES
fill PLAN OF
THE PRESIDEN
T
Universal Compulsory Service
Better 'out People of Coun
try Would Not Approve of
It at This Time,
FORCE 500,000 STRONG
MINIMUM FOR WAR
THE WEATHER
WKATIIKK lXJIUX'AST.
Denver, Jan. 21. New Mexico:
Saturday and Sunday fair, nut much
change in temperature.
CITY DAXK CI.IUPJXUS.
Yestcrdav
tlnental plan had been approved by
the war college. In its report to the
secretary.
Brigadier General MeCotub, presi
dent of the war college, will be lix
amlned by the committee tomorrow.
CLIFTON MINERS OFFER
CONDITIONS TO MANAGERS
HV MORNINa JOURNAL RRECIAL LEAREO WIREI
Clifton. Ariz.. Jan. 21. The copper
miners who have been on strike in
this district since, September II last,
telegraphed to the managers) of the
three operating companies, at El Paso,
tonight, ugreelng to return to work
I with the single provision that the
non-union men now at the so-called
"refugee" camp ut Duncan be not al-
Short Term Lnlistment Not1
in a body. The, strikers have no ob-TUviin-lit
Faicihlp' P n cts' Jections to the men from Duncan re-
I nought reasmie, oosisjUirning t0 work Kraauayi ana sug.
C1 On NOW tf) hftt taC I bO - KCted to the managers that the time
y I V v 1 ' ' " - -
clier to His Command,
and method of their return be left to
a committee noting in conjunction
with the manager.
Hywell Davies and Joseph . Myers,
federal conciliators, arrived today and
will remain pending the result off the
latest offer by the strikers.
RY MORNINO JOURNAL CREMAL LEAEEO WIRE
Washingon, Jan. 21. Unqualified
support wilh given Secretary Garri
son's continental army plnn before
the senate military committee today
by Major General Beott and Major
General Bliss, respectively, chief and
assistant chief of staff, of the army. El Paso,
Hoth amplified statements made on Carmlchael, manager of the Arizona
the subject last week before the house copper company, one of the three cor
commlttee. 'porations operating In the Clifton dis-
Gencral Scott declared the plan trict. said tonight that the condition
would save at least five months time made by the striking miners was vl-
MAXAGEHS NOT HKADY
TO niCTl HX AXKWKU
Tex., Jan. 21. Norman j
ALBUQUERQUE, NEW MEXICO, SflTR 6,
Dally by Carrier or Mall, eo
a Mouth. Klngle Ooplea, So.
THE PRESIDEN
T
DECIDES UPOII
DATES OF TOUR
IN MIDDLE WEST
Leaves for Cruise of Two
Days During Which Ad
dress to Be Delivered in
New York Is to Be Prepared
SECOND TRIP TO BEGIN
MIDDLE OF FEBRUARY
Is Expected on Latter Jaunt
to Carry Preparedness Doc
trine as Far West as Den
ver, Then Swing Southward
VILLA TAKES A
THIRD WIIFE AND
RIDES I COACH
WITH NEW BRID
E
Civil Governor of Chihuahua
State Says Three Columns
of Men Are on Trail of Ban
dit Chieftain,
FEW FOLLOWERS ARE
NOW WITH PANCH0
Peon General Said to Have
Declared He Would Force
United States to Intervene
in Mexico Within 30 Days,
ANTI-CARRANZA
CHIEFS
TO
CUNSPIR
E
SLAUGHTER
ALL AMERICANS
VillcTReporfeU
Hemmed in By
Carranza Troops
IRT MORNINR JOURNAL RRECIAL LEARRD WIRE)
Pearson, Chihuahua. Jan. 21.
Fruiulco Villa, according to military
reports, was at Fl Kudo, thirteen
mile from here aiul surrounded l1)'
Ciirrnntut troops. Ills capture whs
expeeted at any moment, military of
ficials declared.
State Department in Posses
sion of Facts Regarding
Convention Held at Cordoba
Last November,
EXPLAINS MASSACRE
OF 21 FOREIGNERS
Villa, Zapata, Argumedo, Agui
lar and Cedillo Brothers
Leaders of Pact for Extermination,
partisans here, however, declare, they
will combine and immediately enter
upon the first phase of a new revolu
tion. Hut t'arranxa supporters, as
; represented by Ignnelo Kiirl'iuez, who
arrived at Juarez for a conference
Male today, maintain that General Tre-
vlno, who they assert hag fought and
won forty-one buttles, will extermi
nate the various bands befoie they can
form ft Junction.
"Villa has handled 40,00o men In
his career," said Governor Kniique.
"It must be admitted that he will Ve
a factor as long as he Is alive. How
ever, with 10,000 men and a com
mander like General Trevlno who.
(despite his mere 32 years, Is a great
.'general, neither Villa nor unvdf the
others can last long. In fact, their
commands tire nothing but bands of
bandits."
Torreon was selected as the con
centrating point for the Cannula
troops because of its location in the
far MORNING JOURNAL RRECIAL LEAREO MMRIJ
Washington, Jan. 21. Final plans
for President Wilson's forthcoming
1
L
OF
Senator Chamberlain Urges
Universal Military Service
as Only Real Solution of
American National Defense
PHELAN, OF CALIFORNIA,
SEES JAPANESE MENACE
Declares Appearance of Mi
kado's Fleet Off Mexican
Coast Was Not to -Rescue-Disabled
War Vessel,
territory in which the bandits are
IRV MORNINS JOURNAL RRECIAL LEAEEO WIRtl I IE MORNINR JOURNAL RRECIAL LEAREO WIRI 1 I1..1V Olier.'l I IllE A 1' ml IllCll O trilUllH IRV MORNINR JOURNAL EPIOAL LEAEEO WIREI
Juarez, Jan. 21. Although supposed ! Washington. Jan. 21. Death to ' oeennleil a suburb of that cllv two! Washington, Jan. 21. Attacks up-
to be the object of a determined : Americans In Mexico and destruction : tv tit W m ft ffi i ft n il n ft ,M- looiinir Nome on and defense of the administration's
trip through the middle west to speak H(,arci. .... lhpt. Carrnnra columns lllolr piopcrty, as well ns a war toHt(,res and holding tin Howard Potter, I preparedness policy again today
on .lauoimi uif r,. '''?'"" u iHent out to l.rlr.ff him In dead or alive.," lwm !,K'"nal Carranza was deter- U son of James lirown Potter, of Chi-
lonigni, inciuue siops ni i-iusouign, ' ,..," ,,, 'nlneU upon, It became known here lo- cago. for $10,000, departed for the
v-ieii-uiuu, .MiivMiunvr, Liui-iiK"! ( jiiigiu, tu a lorinai convention of Mox-
.uoincs, I opesa, nnu Kansas city, a can cnicuam, nns mumi nine n ue ,,. revolutionary lenders held, in No-i
northwesl. Since then the city
1 been reported quiet.
marked the sessions of tho National
Security league, George L. von Mey-
hasi,er, secretary of the navy during tho
I Roosevelt anil Taft administrations;
In building up an army of defense in
a war emergency. lie advocated Im
mediate organization of a reserve
corps of officers actually commission- managers until Monday
ed and assigned to the posts tnoy
would take In time of war. !
IniHilan Kovonu ori. j
General Scott also urged that u.j
quartermaster's reserve corps of en-j
listed men be formed to include me-
ehanics of all kinds, telegraphers, ra-i
dio operators, motor-vehicle drivers dispatch to the
and experts, teamsters, railway men company from
tal, and that a similar proposition had
been refused once before. An answer
will not be returned by the company
BRITISH SUBMARINE
TAKES AUSTRIAN TOLL
(RV MORNING JOURNAL RRECIAL LEASED WIRIl
London, Jan. 21 (11:20 p. in.) A
Exchange Telegr.iph
Home says a Hr.ti.sh
and the like. A representative of submarine lies sunk in the uppfi
the American N Legion, he said, had Adriatic an Austrian hydroaeroplane
told him recently that 1 5.000 men of and also an Austrian torpedo b iat.
this sot had been listed by the organ- , which, went to the rescue, taking the
Izatlon who were willing to enlist in (crews of both crafts prisoners.
Mich a corps. j
Hoth of the generals expressed the
opinion that universal military service
was the only "Ideal democratic meth-j
od of building an army, but thought
the countiv would not' toreiate the
proposal now. General Hliss said ill
was nlv talked of by army officers'
Ll
T 1
E
adademlc question on this ac--
.1
as on
count.
5(10,0(10 Soldiers Ntx-esMiry.
Discussing tho detail of various
bills under consideration, General
Uliss said that proposed by the warj
department was the only one which j
appeared Mtlsfactory or to contem-j
plate a definite policy. The war col- j j-jlgneSt
leire division of the general start, he i
said, has fixed 500.000 men. more or
less trained, as the irreducible minl-j
mum necessary for the country's safe-!
ty in the first shock of wur. i
Tho proposal to increase the regu
lar army to 2riO.OOO, as sugSestcd in
.Senator Chamberlain's tentative bill,
he added, was wholly inadequate by
itself. Moreover, he added, it wH
Impossible to recruit a larger force
than H0, 000 men, as proposed by
Secretary Garrison for the regular
army, without increasing pay or tJ11- flowed their
crwise giving added inducements, lfo thousands of
lead a report from, the adjutant gen
eral declaring that it would bo im
possible to recruit oven 200,000 men
in peace times and that the average
maximum force that could be main
tained was only 122,000.
now cost the government
man, delivered to their regiments, the
general said. He disapproved short
II ILLINOIS 6Y
RIVER FLOODS
tentative itinerary drawn up last night married again, and has forsaken hH vember ut a ranch near Cordoba, i Governor Knrliniea said tonight that i Henry A. WIhp Wood, who recently
included St. Louis. St. Joseph and cavalrv saddle to ride In a coach with Present and Joining In the agreement ' i ,,,. ..rflHal reooi-t. rendered to resigned from the nnval n'lvisory
Davenport, but these cities have been
eliminated, and Milwaukee and To
pekn substituted.
Is Preparing" .Address.
Tonight the president and Mrs
Wilson left Washington on the
his bride, according to Ignacio
Ko- ,,r" Knl"
" fill..
rlquez, civil governor of the slate or , ,,
, , , , Aguilar,
v niiiuaiiua, n no ai riven uere louay.
Aotoi- in Ton Vnnrc
,l!COl I1UIVI III I V 1 1 llUIW
and Lowlands of Many
Cities Are Inundated; No
Lives Reported Lost,
enlistment terms to build up a regu
lar reserve, saying this would make
it necessary to recruit 200,000 or
more men annually.
Conlinntal Amir Plan.
Discussing the continental army
plan, Generol Bliss said he contem
plated 24 6 batteries of artillery' which
alone would be worth all that may be
expended. The day had passed when
field guns are maneuvered to any
extent, ho said, and no consideration
IRT MURNINO JOURNAL RfCClAL LSA6I0 WIREI
Chicago, Jan. 21. Northern Illinois
today farced flood conditions such as
have not boen experienced for a de
cade, tmall streams were swollen
into torrents and largo rivers over-
baukM and inundated
acres, marooned hun
dreds of homes, threatened pollution
of water supplies and did damage es
timated at thousands of dollars.
Joliet and nearby towns suffered
from the overflow of the Desplaines
Hecruits,and ItH tributaries, which submerged
$100 per'th(, viilace of ltockdale beneath six
feet of water, swept a bridge at Chan
nahon and Inundated the lower sec
tion of Joliet.
In the valley of the Fox river from
IClgin to Ottawa there was flood dam-
jage, the greatest danger being at Au
rora, where whole sections of tho city
,were submerged and for a time the
artesian wells which supply the city
with drinking Water were threatened
with pollution.
Further north the Hock river, and
Its confluents, tho Pecatoniea and Su
gar rivers, went on a rampage and
need bo iriven to the ouestlorf of pro-i threatened the destruction of Interur-
viding horses for the guiiH. ;ban and steam railroad bridges. In
Questioning both witnesses, Chair- Hockford a school house was sur
man Chamberlain brought ou the rounded by the flood and the children
statement that the bill prepared by, prevented from attending. I Souls and
Secretary Garrison had never been rafts took the place of wagons and au-
submitted to the war college division .tomobiles In man towns and cities
of the general staff.. General Scott j No loss of life was reported but
pointed ofit, however, that the Con- many persons w,-re assisted from their
' homes.
In Chicago a warning to boil thu
water was issued by the board author
ities because of possible sewage pollu
tion and all day firemen were kept
(busy pumping out flooded basements.
;ki: Goitoi
yacht Mayflower for a two day cruise
down the Potomac river and Chesa
peake bay, the president having de
cided to seek seclusion for the prep
aration of un address he will deliver
Januury 27 in New York before u
banquet of tin; Railroad P.usiness as
sociation and to tentatively outline the
speeches he will make In the middle
west. He will keep in touch with
the White Hons,, by wireless while
away, and plans to return Monday
morning.
Middle Weslei-n 'lour.
On tile middle western trip the
president will leave Washington Fri
day night, January 28, and will re
turn February 4 in time for the Ju
dicial dinner at the White House. He
will speak at a day meeting In Pitts
burgh January 29, In Cleveland the
same night; at a day meeting in Mil
waukee January 31; in Chicago the
same night; at a night meeting In Des
Moines February 1; at a day meeting
in Topeka February 2 and in Kansas
City the same night. He will spend
Sunday, January 30, in Cleveland.
National Defense His Topic.
In addition to the formal addressc
'n these seven cities the president is f
expected to speak briefly at several
cities and towns through which his
train will pass. The national defense
At least two Women, one
nnval Cuba, and the other In Los Angeles,
already claim Villa as husband, but
1 Knrlqiiex said ho had authentic Infor
mation that Villa had tarried at P,a
chineva. In the mountains of western
Chihuahua, long enourh to be married.
the Cedillo
many lesser chieftains.
now in I Meager reports
board and Representative J. Hamp
ton Moore, nresldeiit of the Atlantic
brothers and at Santa Ysabel January 10, the state-1 Deeper WatvrwayH association, led in
!nu nt was made that while General ! the day's program of addresses. At
to have, been representatives; General Carranza concerning the mur-
Zapata, Argumedo, iliglnlo der of eighteen foreigners, by bandits
f this gathering I Villa was undoubtedly In
came to the state department long i the men responsible for the massacre,
ago, but. they were not made public he was not within thirty miles of the
and until tonight few people in Wash- scene at the time it occurred,
ington knew that there was u general Mexican officials denied today the
conspiracy against Americans or even report that eighteen of the Immllts
that the various rebel factions in the j concerned In the massacre hud been i
field in Mexico had effected any kind j captured and executed at Chihuahua I
The man who gave this information, an agreement for concrete ucllvt-City
command of I tonight's session the progrum includ
ed addresses by Chairman Chambor
. lain of tho senate military committee.
and Senator Phulan of California,
whose subject was "The Pacific
Peril. "
IiciiouiHt'it I'm-elgii pulley.
at Chihuahua I wr, wcoci arraigned tne uununis-
Governor Knrluuez said, how-! (ration h conduct of foreign affairs,
Knriiiicn said, raw Villa only
days ago. He was one of Vi"a' "do
rados" and confirmed previous reports
that Villa was boasting that he would
force Intervention by the Vnlted States
inside of thirty clays, but declared
that Villa had only a few men with
iiim. Kurhiucz asserted that the man
four lies against the do fucto government, lever, that a number of handlls cap-"i'.o-1
Ma:iMtriv. Part of Plan. i lured by General Citvazos In a battle
The recent massacre at Santa Ysa-; ' eral days ago near Guerrero, had
bel, attributed to bandits led by Villa been executed on the field, Instead of
officers, is believed to have been per-ji"'i''K taken to Chihuahua City us or
petruted in accordance Willi the rebel I IglnaUv planned to execute and then
pians oi me aoniinisirauon win ; nicted by a Mexican military officer
his principal topic, but he probably . .... MM i,.-.,,,,,.,.
convention order, officials think the!
long period elapsed after thu Cordoba
who made the report and forty other; meeting before the murders becuuso
Villa followers, hud suught amnesty, j of the time required by thu various
"We hae three columns lifter Villa," ; delegates to make reports to their
Knriquez added, ' and I expect to hear .commanders, and the fact that news i
any time that li has Ucn killed or, of Hut convention's decision had4.ij.bi4
captured." Married to Mil. ordinate 'military com-j
jniandeis h courier. Cordoba Is on
AMKISH WS II VK Pi:itlLS ;ilu, railroad between Vera Cruz and
OX JOl'KXI-;Y TO ltomUCir .vlexlco City, and some olio thousand
jiiini-s iii'in i :u oei.
The Carranza authorities have been)
fully advised concerning the move
ments of the rebels, and have been
depended upon by the Washington!
government to lake every possible
Precaution to prevent the threats
against Americans from being carried
out. They urc believed to have the
in fairly well in hand now, al-
( em Iiiiii-iI on I'asv T.)
0 ROBBERY
AND MURDER IN
LI Paso, Tex., Jan. 21. A. .1. Trnm-
lio, a wealthy mine owner of the state'
of Oaxacu, Mexico, who with his wife
underwent a nerve-wearing experi
ence In getting- north to the border,'
left here tonight for Los Angeles.
They werP accompanied by 11. C. Tan-1
nor, of Mexico City, who Is recovering
from a bullet wound in the lungs in-'u, ,,,..,
CHICAGO STREETS
will take up other subjects, including
the European and Mexican situations.
The president sent to the war and
navy departments today for informa
tion concerning the army and navy to
be used In the preparation of his
speeches. His stenographer accom
panied him on tho Mayflower and ho
will spend much of his time dictating.
Scrond Trip to Follow.
As soon us the president finally ap
proved the itinerary tonight messages
were sent to the friends and organi
zations extending tho invitations to
the cities chosen and preparations
were begun immediately for the scries
of meetings. In most of the cities
business associations will arrange the
meetings. If present pluns are car
ried out no members of the cabinet
will accompany the president.
On the president's second trip about
tho middle of February, in addition
to going oh far west as Denver, he Is
expected to visit several southern
cities, probably Including Birmingham
and at least one point in North Carolina.
The Day in Congress
si:x.vti-
Not in session; meets Monday.
naval affairs comniit
hearings on national
JKHSK.
Met at noon.
Military und
tees continued
defense.
Hearings on literacy test of immi
(Si'atiun bill closed.
P.ill to provide $250,000 for
tional leprosarium
I IIIIDAKS;
ISP.IIX.I S KM).X(il
:itfc
Kansas llty, Jan. 21. Released by
last night's warm rain, a gigantic ice
field poured down the Kansas river
today. It struck the new Twenty-
third street viaduct that partly spans
a na-tthe river at Kansas avenue, carried
favorably reported 1 away one hundred und twenty feet of
bv eoiiimeroo , nmmitlee false work and threw the weight of
l.'rgent deficiency bill carrying up-Ian entire cantilever on two small
proprlations approximating $12,500,-! groups of piles.
OUU patscd. I This afternoon the west .end of the
General debate on the Shackleford 'structure had fallen ten feet and It
federal post roads bill resumed. iwas feared the bridge would be car-
Committee on insular affairs beganjrb-d out.
consideration of the Philippine mean-; The bridge is intended to join Kan
ure. jsas City, Mo., and Kansas City, Kan.
Comptroller Williams urged rulesj Reports from Lawrence, Kan., said
ommitiee to report promptly for. the river was rising rapidly, but the
pHssaee resolution for invent imitioii of lice Hack there had not broken. The
usurious charges by national hunks,
adjourned at 5:33 p. m. until, noon
Saturday.
breaking of
would mean
bridge.
this ffleld. it was
disaster for the
said,
local
MISSOURI NIGHTRIDERS
CONVICTED BY JURY
UT HORNINR JOURNAL R FECIAL LEASER WIREI
New Madrid, Mo., Jan. 21. John
Klder and Dick Gamble today were
convicted of participating in a night
rider attack on M. It. Adkisson, u
land owner living near Gideon, Mo.
Fifty alleged night riders remain to
be tiled.
Kd Miller, on,, of the alleged night
riders who has turned state's evidence,
testified today as to the secret work
ings of the different bands. He said
he was induced to join the "Gideon
band' so culled because its members
lived near Gideon, Mo.- because he
was tol( It was u sort of lubor union.
Miller testified that Riley Misk'l, who,
he said, was chief of the bund, gave
orders that R. it. Langley, town mar
shal of Gideon, lie killed, and station
ed groups of men to waylay the mar
shal. The latter, however, did not
get- within reach.
Miller testified that he was told if
he did not obey orders he would be
beaten and if this did not have the
desired effect, he would bo killed.
John ( isborn pleaded guilty to par
ticipation in the attack on Adkisson.
f. ',,.a,,i,,. ,.!iii I.. i,,. ri.i.i ..,...-
Haymore, of Douglas, Ariz. " ' " V v' "
. . , .., , ,. , , , '"ting more or less open y.
A train on which the Trumbos rodei .... ' . .. . .
, ,, . , . , , , , , Why American. Wen; Warned.
wus Immediately behind one wh ch L. , ,
was blown up Zapatistas with th lot' ""'T. T'"
of twenty-thU lives. lh" " aU withdrew Its
Tanner received his wound in a res- from northern Hex-
taurant in Mexico City in an encoun-1;0 ' "rt rtWA its warning to
ter which resulted, he .aid. when h0 ! Africans to leave Only by getting
resented insultlna references to ,he C 'nS of the United States from ter
United States .rltory not Hilly controlled by the de
The Trumbos reported that typhus' fac,,. "vrnmont. it was realized,
was rampant throughout southern c0.uU, "u" ,H' uny (,NSl"u"'o of
and central Mexico. .safety.
Conditions as to filth and destitu- , KtW d"t!,"H oi 1 ,m"1"1 '0"ven
tinn were simply indescribable, they"0" n,u know". ("'cording to the
said. Formanv days during ,h(. (reports, it lasted for weveral daya and
loumev north to tho border ilr"lriC of iht' earlier arrival, awaited
Trumbo said he nnrl his wife hail i I'robably weeks for all the delegates to j
only dry tortillas to cut, and at every ' li'ar. Apparently the call for the
stop officers collected money from all i ,1H','""R ,V,,M M nl ol,t Hm,n 1,H ,f l,e
who appeared to havo any. One of-!''""1" km,wn the United States wus
ficer took Mr. Trumbo's leather lined ll,",ut ,0 recognize Carranza, although
coat. j" Wi,H month after recognition actti-
"The narrowest escape we had was !('"' l"''11 accorded before the del
on the ride in a Mexican train to!t'"lt;! "t together. At that time
Puebla," ho said. "The train ahead of jllll'Ke forces of Villa and Zapata forces j alighting. Meanwhile the robber had
us was blown up by Zapatista forces -w,re updating in the neiuhl.orhooil of j entered the offices. The cashier,
ami twenty-three, out of twenty-four tlx-' railroads near Mexico City, unil'lOrncst L, Walsh, attempted to reach
persons aboard, were killed. Several 'l wa" possible for the convention tojn revolver but was shot and pain
times volleys of bullets were fired Into . assemble and do lis work with com-j fully injuied and backed into a vault
the train by the Zapatistas." parulhc safety from interruption. jwllii rmir otner employes.
- i I'm lire Is Unknown. , I!, ,. Johnson, a traffic policeman,
COPPFR PR lOFS RRFAK i Whether there s any great proba- was attracted to Hie scene but found
!.... !,.., ,'!',. i..... !.nl,!!!
linm-i !l,IK !lll !- lift, I- in, .!-, n
policy at Hie moment.'' Mr, Meyer
declared that the fundamental defect
of the navy dcpurtmeiil was that It
had no brains and Mr. Moore assailed
the "repeated and continued failure"
of the government to heed lesson
taught by other War and develop
waterways near the coast adequate
for naval strategical moves which
might beeum. necessry in war time.
Admiral to' Hofent-o.
motig the administration's de
fenders Wus Hear Admiral Colby M."
Chester, li'llred, who reminded the
league that under the constitution tho
president alone was vested with au
thority to recommend to congress na
val und military Improvements. "If
you don't like the way tho president
handles this problem," ho auld, "you
have the recourse of turning him out
of office; but so long ns he is In of
fice we should remember that h
represents the entire nation and
Employe of ThoniasH1ho,ulJ w"n ,,n VrT":
' J I ilnl linn hi, ttmweM nlonir h M line. A
............ ...'..n ......
resolution voicing the league's sup
port of the president was introduced
by Admiral Chester but wus not acted
upon.
To formulate n definite suggestion,
a committee headud by Luke K.
Wright, former secretary of war, was
appointed, with Robert Bacon, form
er socretary of Mate, as vice chair
man. Members of th committee had
freelv expressed their advocacy of
to the i form of universal military
training and the Inclusion of that
buggestlon won forecast.
Senator Chamberlain bpcnkN.
Senator Chamberlain expressed tho
opinion that universal military serv
ice offered tho best solution of pre-
' paredness problems, but that the pro
Igrum that lion been outlined by tho
(administration might be hummcred
: into acceptable form.
I "I am not going to 1 Incus the
jn.-ivj," said Senator Chamberlain. "I
i want you to remember, however, that
j hilc it is not so much because con
i grcHs bus failed to keep It up to a
Policeman Is Shot Through
Heart,
Cook and Sons Is Wounded
and Bandits Escape,
RT MORNINR JOURNAL RPECIAL LEAREO WIRE
Chicago, Jan. 21. A bandit, ac.
companied by a woman, this after
noon robbed tho tourist agency of
Thomas A. Cook it Son of $900,
wounded the cashier, killed a police
man and escaped. According
police the deed was the most daring
of yeurs in this city." It was accom
plished on one of the busiest streets
of the downtown district at un hour
when tho thoroughfare was congested
with automobiles and workers on
I their way home.
The woman did not participate, in
the actual robbery. She ordered a
tnxicab at the Great Northern hotel
through the doorman, John MCabe,
of the Fay company, rispoiiilcd. The
woman instructed him to drive to No.
15 Fust Jackson street, the Cook of
fices. There she wailed without
Sew all Shipyard jraeil.
Rath, Me., Jan. 21. The local ship
yards of Arthur Sewall & Co., which
have been idle for ten years, have
been leased to the Texas company for
a ter n of five years. Ii was announced
today by William I. Sewall, principal
owner of the company. It Is said two
tank steamers will be built as soon as
material is received.
or
.111,.. ,.f ...., I n ..... I ,......,..,.( !.,
ALL RECENT RECORDS among the factions fighting Curran,a, ' after
officials hern do not profess to know.
iRr MoRNiNa journal (FECIAL lEAGEo wiREi (Sonic information has reached Ihtc
New York, Jan. 21. An unprece-1 to Indicate that money may be forth
dented demand for copper metal from ! coming to finance a revolution on a
foreign and domestic sources resulted (considerable scab- with the hope of
today In an advance in the quotation (enlisting Hie support of nil the rebels,
from 2K' to 25 '4 c for delivery in the ( boi officials tonight said there were
second quarter of the year, A price! no reports to show that such a move
of 27c a pound was reported to have ! nu nt actually was under way.
been off' red for .March delivery audi Advices to the state depart mcnl j un alley,
rumors were current that 30 cents ! from l-;i pas,, l-nlay told of the re-1 gased for
j reasonable slate of preparation but
because the other nations of the earth
have outstripped America In tho raco
i that she ouirlit to win. We ore not
I prepared at sea. We have not done
jour whole duty; and 1 do hope that
In the very near future our navy, In
stead of occupying the fourth place,
tin- banilu had locked the door M MI1H I,,,,.,, Miiti,., (,, yon i)y your dis-
eiitering. .loinison was lr.v nig , ., ,jshoil chairman, will occupy at
least soirii u here roar the f:r:;t place
an enhance when Hie robber
was bid for delivery
which, however, could
firmed.
Not kIiuc March, IH07
in February, ported capture near
not be con-(eighteen bandits otic,
, en part In the Santa
when the ami said they were I
I suddenly threw
j bullet into the
i He scattered
I sidewalk ami 1-
cab. lb- pointc
I Cube and ordered blm to drive away,
(biq MeCnhe Jumped. The bandit
I hesitated a second n ml then sped up
The woman followed. She
a moment at the lace of
It open and tired
officer's heart.
the throng on the!
iped toward the taxi- ; ,,
,1 bin weapon at Mi - j rlty
Til.
metal stood
short period.
Chihuahua of, the dead policeman and, accorilln
;ed to hav e ink - j "'Knesset-, seemed about to faint.
Ysabel murders. I I eeovi-reil and disappeared in
i have been eve-'etow. .McCabe was Interviewed
at 25 'jo a pound for n
ban copper bet n so high
UNSKILLED LABOR AND
SKILLED TO BE MIXED
IRV MORNINO JOURNAL RPECIAL LEAREO WIREI
ciiltd today. No confirm
report that Villa himself
taken was received niiil
both the department ami
embassy abandoned hop,
t rue,
; police licahiinrli'is and allowed
! return to work. The police wme
; lfi'-d of hi Innocence.
K I",
hill '
the ,
at :
to;
sat - ;
TlilA ivo io ( iti s.il ;w
' lll.VOI.T AT ll;(.IVl(.i
urgent necessity of speeding up the I
supply of munition has determined
the government to put Into force ini--mediately
plans for the dilution of!
skilled labor with Seml-sklll, d, un-!
ukltlt iih.i -..,,-)) I.. ..II ...... I
.......... t. , . v nutnilf , (, 1 ( 1, -
trolled establishments.
In a statement on the subject in the
house of-cr mmoiis today Premier As-
quith announced that the government
was convinced that this plan offered
the only prospect of securing a suf
ficient supply of munitions "to enable
the war to be brought to a speedy and
successful con'-iuiion.''
lil Paso, Tex., Jan. 21 Gen. Jacinto j.b
Tr-vino, military chief of General Car-j filed sun here for divorce from Mrs.
rjinza in the (dates of Conhuiln, liu-jMuude I., .Meeker, from whom be
r ingo, Nuevo I-eon and T.imaiillpaH. ( had been separated a inr.
.nil,,,-,, ai untunes unlay en roiue in- oiik l cr-Miia n .ieeiver in nip pell-
' 'IV L. ..... .. 1 I . i i. . .... , . . i . . .
I ,,li,-, ,11 i, irve Co III II la no OI HI) mill IIOI1 sa, H (11,11 .Ills. AlcCKcr whs com
i of at least 10,000 men, now being con
centrated at that point for a campaign
j to kill in its Inception a new- revolt
proclaimed iiy ! Tunolsco Ilia. Ilen-
jamiii Argumedo. Cailxto Contierasi asks custody of Hoir four children
un, other untl-Catraiiiia chiefs.
Each of thesr leaders so far bus
been operating Independently. Their
inioiigsl the navies of the world.
Ki fi r., tu Panama C anal.
"If there had been no war In Kuropw
un lit still say there was necessity
preparedness for national defense.
American brain ami the American
energy ami the American money built
ii canal which absolutely changed the
geography of the World. That fact
alone was sufficient to have compell
ed t ic American patriotic citizen to
hae seen to it that our country llilV
Im; i banged the limp of the world
should always be in a position where
no other power on the face of the
earth could change the handwriting o
Aim-i li a a i loss the Isthmus of Pan
ama. Monroe Kiiciilne ut Stake.
"Rut that Is not all. The ringing
message of Monro,, to the congress of
I Hie United States in 1S23 served no-
IRT MDNNINa JOURNAL IPICIAL LEARfO WIRE' '(ilC llpUll t 1 1 f 'OWCl'H llf IhC eUl'tlt t till t
H. I.ouis. Jan. 21 .Congressman America was t,.' be kept Intact for
oli F. Meeker, of St. Louis, today ' America ns. There was no pussv-foot-
ed diplomacy about that method.
"If we Intend to do what Monroe
said We oiiL.ht to do, it is our duty to
si to It thai our country Is prepared
to ai ry out the obligation to the Cen
tral ami South American, republics,
not so much for their protection, but
for the sake of redeeming the pledges
that hav,, practieully been in existence
between the United States and these
countries for nearly 100 years.
Xo Nerd to Fear Other Nations.
"Now what la tha use of refusing or
lion ot the
had been
oflleiuls of
tn.Tw'nsiCONGRESSMAN'S WIFE
! WAS COLD AND HARSH
and harsh to him for years, that she
pursued binr with groundless accusa
tions of improper conduct and tor
mented him with fits of Jealousy. Ill-
Congressman Meeker formerly was
pastor of a Congregational church In
St. Louis.
