.Today's Metal Prices fiTtxii fill rfY A'iW SLt Vtf'ttf iVWV A' 4 P. M. CITY EDITION I
,EW Y0RU0TAT10Na U JI P v LiULlL JSXtl I UU lIX U - twenty-four pages
New York, Jan. 22.-Sllvcr, 57 1-4c; L WJ 'V W L ' " t 7 WW WT "V "T -ws I B
lead, $5.90; spelter, not quoted; cop- JT k - WEATHER-Utah: Tonight and !H
per, S24.5024.25. J Sunday Warmer and Cloudy With fl
" FEARLESS, INDEPENDENT, PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER I I B
Forty-sixth Year-No. 19. Price : Five Cents. OGDEN CITY, UTAH, SATURDAY EVENING, JANUARY 22, 1916. , Entered as Second Class Matter at the Postoffice, Ogden, Utah. ''
ILlMlllin I ftil lli I Jrli SI i nJl IS I irSI KiKrll
1 1 Russian Torpedo Boats Sink Two
II Turkish Ships Loaded with War Supplies
GERMANS DESTROY TRENCHES OF '
: THE ALLIES SOUTH OF YPRES
I- Positions Between Moselle and Vosges and Villages Behind
I ; German Front Shelled by French Artillery Duels With
I Russians Continue French Bombard Enemy Provis-
I i ion Trains and Groups of Workmen in Belgium,
I j in Champagne and in the Vosges.
I
I I Petrograd, Jan. 22. I p. m. Via London, -3 : 50 p. m.
I Russian torpedo boats in the Black sea, it was announced here
I today, have sunk two Turkish ships loaded with war supplies.
I , The crews were made prisoners.
I Berlin, Jan. 22, via London, 3 p.m.
I The following statement was issued
Ml today by army headquarters:
I' '-"Western theatre: South of Yprea
I ' we destroyed by a mine trenches of
I the enemy over a front of a seventy
I ; meters.
I .: : "Our positions between the Moselle
I ; ' and the Vosges and some villages be-
I bind our front were shelled by the
I , enemy without effect.
I ' "Eastern theatre: There have been
I - ; artillery duels before Smorgen and
I Dvinsk.
I "Balkan theatre: There is nothing
My to report."
I i
M' Paris, Jan. 22, via London, 3:35
I ' p m. The communication given out
I I ; this afternoon by the French war de-
Ipaitment says:
"Last night our artillery directed
its fire against provision trains and
groups of workmen of the enemy at
points In Belgium, in Champagne ajid
in the Vosges. On the remainder 'of
the front the night passed quietly.""
Berlin, Jan. 22, by Wireless to Say
viHe. "The Austro-Hungarlau offici
al press bureau" says the Overseas
News Agency, "announces that the
MVt laying down of arms as agreed upon
M ' by the Montenegrin government is
M meeting with difficulties and that the
general disarmlug of the Montcnc
M ) grins will be delayed, this being duo
m principally to the long distances over
, which the soldiers have to travel and
" to the bad communications.
m ' "The press bureau also declares
' that the delay is duo In part to the
M j ' national peculiarities of the Monte-
f : negrin people who, ignoring the gen
M oral situation, do not yet know whe
M : i thcr they are expected from their gov
M . ernment to continue war on their ac
WL. count.
.1 "The Austro-Hungarian govern-
; ment, the press bureau adds, nppreci-
. ating these circumstances has granted
time to the Montenegrin government
so that it may get into communica-
) tion with the reluctant part of the
M ; population In order to bring about a
3 systematic submission of all people."
3 Paris, Jan. 21. 4:50 p. in. A dis-
1 J" patch from Milan to the Temps says
- ; that the squadron of sixteen warships
r of the allies which on Wednesday
S ? bombarded Porto Lagos, the Bulgarian
j I seaport on the Aegean nenr the Greek
J I border, also shelledj.be military bar-
X . lacks and railway station at Dedeag-
a M I hatcl1 and destroyed a military train.
3m The dl8Patch adds that among the at-
tm tacking vessels was the Italian cruis-
jSfi a er Piemonte.
-" I Belgium for Peace.
4. J London, Jan. 21, 0:05 a. m. An
'v x Ansterdam dispatch to the Exchange
, ; Telegram company states that the
' T-rankfurter Zeltung, discussing the
,'r r I'OSEibllity of a separate peace be-
.': tween Gormanv and Belgium, says
'-, taat as long as Belgium has not sign-
I; I ed the London agreement regarding
i t the making of a separate peace she
. '3 free to do as her Interests com-
) mand. The newspaper is quoted as
',- t adding that Belgium, until now, has
oen considered by the German clian-
i ;- cellor as an object of exchange and
; that sensible Belgians ought to be told
I not to wait too long or Belgium will
be considered as a good price.
The Amsterdam dispatch says that
'' I Ma article has caused a sensation in
I Germany and that it is -believed to
-1 bavr been inspired from official
sources.
I) ParlB, Jan.- 21, i:35 p. m The
united Socialist party will petition
Parliament and the government to au-
thorlze a committee of members of
the chamber of deputies to go to the
i trenches and talk freely with the sol-
j? derfi so Uiat closer relations may be
, W "istituted between army and parlia-
; ent.
At a representative meeting of the
r S Prty today, a resolution was adopted
)) nbodying the proposal which would
X '" bo Preaented in the chamber. Tt is
J aBgested that 44 members of the
f U chamber be selected from the various
4 i Parties anfi that they be authorized
g I to discuss with the soldiers on the
r:, I "Bhtlng line all mattors, except mill-
. y orders. The resolution sayB In
Kv I !b ay the men in the trenches will
P "e made to realize that they have the
rtjL 8'niPathy and BiipporL of parliament
""'m . Rev"cw of WarvSituation.
: . Further reports regarding tho re
'! u"mP-Ion of hostilities botwoen Mon
I C&fipiwJnE.a,j:eJpcaoiLL.i)6acc
A
terms by the former, ar lacking. A
Berlin dispatch early today, however,
quoted a Colonge newspaper as con
ceding that obstacles had arisen dur
ing the negotiations and that there
had been a refusal of a part of the
Montenegrin army to lay down its
arms.
Turkish Army Defeated.
Dispatches late last night from Pet
rograd gave a Russian official state
ment declaring that the Turkish army
in the vicinity of Erzerum had been
defeated and was retreating precipi
tately to the protection of the Erze
rum forts.
There is discussion in GeJ-raany of
a separate peace between Germany
and Belgium and a London dispatch
quotes an influential Frankfort news
paper ns suggesting that Belgium
ought not to wait too long before tak
ing up the subject
' CALLS FOR AID
Freighter Leaves New York for
Archangel But Returns in
Short Time Ablaze.
New York, Jan. 22. The Norwegian
freight steamer Sygma, which left
here yesterday for Archangel, Russia,
returned early today with a fire in
her hold anchored off the quarantine
station. Using the Morse signal
lights, her captain flashed a message
ashore saying that there was a fire
in the Sygnia's number one hold and
asking for assistance. About two
hours later the fire boat Mayor Gay
nor arrived alongside the Sygnia and
began to fight the fire.
Apparently the fire was still under
hatches for there was no sign of flame
or smoke to be seen from quarantine
while the burning vessel was await
ing the arrival of the fire boat. The
Sygnia is believed to be loaded with
war munitions and supplies for Rus
sia. The steamer -belongs to Bergen,
Norway, and is of 3.8S1 tons. She was
built in 1007 and is owned by J. L.
Mowinckel.
Mystery Surrounds Fire.
Mystery surrounded the fire which
fr,yn,vri Min Vnru'oin !i ii fmirrht sfprimer
Sygnia to put back to this port today
after having sailed yesterday for
Archangel with a large cargo consign
ed to the Russian government.
The fireboat Willian J. Gaynor mot
the freighter at quarantine and after
quantities of steam had been turned
into the Sygnia's forehold. from which
clouds of smoke were pouring when
she reached port, it was believed the
fire was virtually under control.
Officers and members of the freigh
ter's crew said that so far as they
know, no explosion preceded the firu,
but they were unable to offer an ex
planation of how the blaze originated
in a hold which they said contained
onlv structural steel and railway ma
terial. When asked if there was evi
dence indicating that the fire had
been of Incendiary origin, the officers
said that "it was too soon to make
an invpstigation."
Members of the Sygnio's crew who
covered the hatch of the forehold yes
terday, said there was no indication
of fire when the freighter sailed and
that it was early yesterday evening
before one of the watch saw smoke
seeping from around the batch. The
cover was hurriedly taken off, and
while no flames could be soon, n great
quantity of smoke rose from the hold.
The captain and officers were mysti
fied concerning the origin of the blaze
and .it was decided to put back at
once. , , ,
Owing to the tightly packed mass
of steel beneath decks, the crew of
the fireboat found much difficulty in
fighting the blaze and in attempting
to enter the hold. It was impossible
to locate the center of the tire or to
learn the nature of the material that
,.oc hnrntnsr and for this rcar.on tho
fireboat continued to pour steam Into
the hold for several hours,
Tho Sygnia will be docked, partly
unloaded and thoroughly examined to
s determine the cause of tho blaze.
. Steel rails and various forms of struc
tural steel were said to be in the bot
tom of the forehold while on top of
- this material was a Targe amount of
- railway supplies, chiefly steel car
i parts for aBBonlbllng in Russia. J.U
could not be learned whether the ves
i sel had an' munitions aboard.
The fire of the Sygnia is the latest
of a long series of fires and explos
Ions which have occurred on vessels
shortly after they sailed from this and
other American ports with munitions
or supplies for the allies. In numer
ous cases it has been found that the
fires were caused by incendiary
bombs or fuses, but several cases
have gone unexplained, at least so far
as the public has been concerned.
Norton, Lilly and company, agents
for the Sygnia, later stated that the
freighter did not carry any munitions
or highly inflammable material, tho
cargo consisting of Bteel chiofly, rail
way car parts and wire
oo
LUH BOARD Mi
SK0IIEN10
HE lU
A lunacy board today again exam
ined L. F. O'Brien and concluded that
he should be sent to the state mental
hospital Tor observation and treat
ment While the doctors do not con
sider that tho man is insane, yet his
condition a few months ago justified
a verdict of insanity and it is a ques
tion now whether a reoccurrence is
not near at hand. His recent homi
cidal tendencies as disclosed in his
threat to kill the physicians who first
committed him to the hospital, led
to this conclusion. Only a few days
ago the doctors declared O'Brien
sane.
SUPElTElOElI SI
ID IS FIE
FROM smw
M. J. Read, superintendent of trans
portation for tho Ogden-Logan & Ida
ho Railway company, has returned
from the heay snow drifts on the
company's line in the vicinity of
Dewey and Collinston, after spending
a number of days directing the work
of raising the blockade. lie states
tlat the track has been completely
cleared of snow and there is little
danger of further blockade this win
ter, as the snow Is heavily packed
and cannot well be drifted by winds.
The superintendent says the most
serious trouble was over about five
miles of road between Dewey and
Collinston. The cuts were filled with
snow in depths ranging from three
to six feet and so heavily packed that
the snow plows could make but little
headway. One hundred men with
picks and shovels were set to work
to remove the snow and work was
kept up incessantly for three days.
To protect tho roadbed in future
time, snow fences will be erected in
tho danger zone and in some instan
ces snowsheds will-be constructed.
FORMER RESIDENT
DIES II HOPE, INNO
Mrs. Margaret Cook Davey, wife of
the late Thomas Davey, died in Hope,
Idaho, January 4, of hemorrhage of
the brain.
She was born in Switzerland, March
15, 1S51 and came to tills country
when a young girl. She married Wil
liam M. Cook, a member of the G. A.
II., and a former business man of
Ogden, who died in Hope eleven years
ago. They made Ogden their homo
for the greater part of twenty years
and had numerous friends in this
city. She was married to Thomas
Davey in 1902 and seven years later
became a widow again. Since then
she has lived alone.
Mrs. Davey was a social member of
the Hope Degree of Honor and a mem
ber of the Rebekah lodge of Sand
point, The funeral services wore held on
January 7th at tho Congregational
church of Hope, and were attended-by
a lrirge concourse of friends from
Spokane, Sandpolnt and Kootenai," and
the community about Hope. Even tho
schools closed early to permit the
teachers to attend. The funeral pro
cession wns said to be the largest
ever seen In Hope. Tho floral offer
ings wero numerous and benutiful In
cluding tributes from the Bible class
and the lodges of which the deceased
was a member.
uu
VUMA CITIZENS PANIC STRICKEN.
Yuma, Arizona, Jan. 22. Yuma was
flooded by wntcr from' the Colorado
river today. Mayor Charles C. Moore
died of heart failure caused by excite
ment in restoring order. Many of
the residents apparently were panic
stricken. Water which rushed through
tho main street several feet deep,
washed away many of tho oldcr'build-
t
MEXICANS KILL
YOUNG RANCHER
Bert Akers of Texas With
Cowboy Cross Line in
Search of Stolen Cows.
BOTH MEN UNARMED
Cattle Thieves Fire More Than
200 Shots at Americans
Survivor Tells Thrill
ing Story.
El Paso, Tex., Jan. 22. Only two
men of the five who are said to have
participated in the attack yesterday
which resulted in the killing of Bert
Akers at San Lorenzo, Chihuahua,
yesterday were under arrest at Juar
ez today. These were Bernardo Du
ran and his brother Federico, who
were captured by Carranza soldiers
directly after the shooting. The
body of Akers was brought to Juarez
this morning and later was to be turn
ed over to a fraternal order of which
he was a member.
Bernardo Duran, the man who is
said to have admitted killing Akers,
escaped from the San Marclal con
vict camp of Santa Fe, N. M January
10, 1914, where he was serving three
to five years for cattle robbery, ac
cording to the authorities.
Ysleta, Texas, Jan. 22. The story
of how Bert Akers, a young rancher
of this place, was killed by Mexican
cattle thieves when he crossed the
border into Mexico yesterday to re
cover some stolen.- cows was detailed
today by. Douglas.Dow'as. Akers' pom
rnioiiT wlib'-afteifsunflving a hall of
bullets sent af ten him and Akers by
the thieves, escaped to American soil.
The Americans wero unarmed. Downs
said they were attacked by five Mexi
cans who fired more than 200 shots.
Akers was 25 yesrs-old. He came
here from Kentucky eight years ago.
A widow and three children, the eld
est four years-old, survive. Downs,
cowboy and wildwest rider is 20 years
old. lie came hero from Mongolton,
N. M. The Duran brothers, leaders
of the Mexican thieTes, were captured
by Carranza troopeis and now are In
jail at Juarez. They .formerly lived
here, having come to Texas from
Now Mexico.
Akers and Downs, accoiripanied by
Juan Barrios. Mexican secret servico
operative detailed to aid them, were
searching for six cows stolen last Sat
urdav from the ranch of Mrs. J. D.
Murphy near here when attacked.
Mrs. Murphy is Akers' sister-in-law.
Downs Tells Story.
The substance of the story told by
Downs follows:
"We crossed the river into Mexico
yesterday morning and went down by
San Lorenzo, searching the country
side, working our way toward Juarez.
Barrios, the Mexican detective, was
the only man of us armed. Directed
by a dairyman we met we finally lo
cated a house occupied by some men,
who, the dairyman said, recently had
j-tolen cattle In the neighborhood. It
was an old flat roofed adobe about
three miles south of the border oppo
site West Ysleta.
Finds Stolen Cows.
"We rode up to the house. In the
corral we saw the Murphy cows.
Their ears had been cut off and they
had been re-branded to disguise them.
"Barrios knocked on the door of
the adobe house Federico Duran an
swered the knock He knew Akers
and I were Americans and recognized
Akers at once, having known him pre
viously in Ysleta 'Hello Chappo' ho
said. 'Chappo' is Akors' nickname.
"Federico asked what wo wanted
and Akers replied that we want to
look at the stock in the corral. Fed
erico said he would have to see his
brother Bernardo and turned back in
to the house.
Feared Trouble With Mexicans.
"I had a hunch something was
about to break loose and asked Bar
rios If he was going to arrest the
men. We went to the corral and by
this time I could seo five men in the
house. I told Barrios I thought there
were too many for us to tackle. Pret
ty soon all tho men came running out
armed with six shooters. They put
up a ladder and mounted to the roof.
I shouted to Akers and Barrios to
watch out.
"The Mexicans started to shoot and
kept popping mainly at Akers and me.
Akers had dismounted and had little
opportunity to get away I cut across
an irrigated field onmy- pony and Ak
ers came running behind, Tho field
was soft. My pony was to his knees
in mud. Akers, in boots, was labor
ing hard and shouting to mo to wait,
I pulled him up on the pony behind
me. Barrios had gone around on the
other side of the house.
Wild Run For Life.
"A heavy set man, Bernardo Duran,
I believe, had mounted Akers' horse
and was coming after us yelling Uko
an Indian and shooting at every jump.
My pony jumped one irrigating ditch
with his double load. When he tried
to jump the next ho fell. I went out
of the saddle and started afoot. Bert
got Into tho saddle. All tho Mexicans
.now were aftor us, popping at ub,
from every side. I told Bert if he
rode, I rode too and got on the pony
behind him. The biggest Mexican
chasing us was now close behind
pumping at us as fast as he could
load his gun. I decided I stood a
chance on foot and jumped off the
nony atrain. aiming to got behind a
tree. We had reached the road by
this time. atf3
"When I jumped from tho pony 1
fell. As I got up the big Mexican on
Akers' horse pulled up.
" Til kill you if you run,' he said in
English.
Has Narrow Escape.
"I said-1 did not intend to run and
ho said he would kill me anyway, and
fired almost In my face, but missed.
The Mexican took out after Akers. I
ran full tilt down the road for about
a mile until I came to the house of
n Mexican rancher. He was scared
almost to death and wouldn't let me
in but I got directions to the house
of an American named Smith. I start
ed running again after throwing away
mj' coat and finally reached a two
story red brick which was the Smith
houso where I stopped exhausted.
"Pretty soon a Mexican boy came
riding" by and told us some Mexicans
had just killed a gringo because he
had violated an old Mexican custom
that forbids prying into private cor
rals. I told Smith I did not want to
put him in bad and would leave. He
gave me a coat and sent his boy to
guide me out by a way that would
hide me from pursuers. The boy show
ed me the way to get to the border
which was just a mile.
"I .got back across the border about
five yesterday evening and told the
whole story to a bunch of Texas
rangers. The rangers spread along
the border hoping the Carranza troops
would make it so hot for the thieves
that some of them might cross the
line."
Men Failed to Obey Consul.
El Paso, Tex., Jan. 22. American
Consul Thomas D. Edwards of Juarez
stated today that to the best of his
knowledge Akers and Downs had been
unarmed when they went to the ban
dits' stronghold. "They came to me
a few days ago and I told them to go
alone, unarmed, across the river and
find their cattle, then to come to me
and I would secure an officer from
General Gaviera to go with them. Ap
parently they obeyed my instructions
JiW everything -. except coming, -to me
for the officer. They secured their
officer themselves. Had they come
to me, I would have secured a mili
tary officer for them."
There was no preparation early to
day In Juarez to secure the body of
the murdered American at Ysleta.
nn
COLD WAVE MAY
Weather Bureau Forecasts Re
lief From Torrential Rains
in Middle West.
i
Extensive Havoc Wrought in
Country Hundreds of
Farms Are Inundated.
Chicago. Jan. 22 A cold wave, said
by the weather bureau to be sweep
ing eastward from the Rocky Moun
tain region today was held out as
hope for relief from flood conditions
which prevailed in Illinois and neigh
boring states as tho result of torren
tial rains following a rapid rise in
temperature.
With thousands of persons tempor
arily made homeless, property loss
running into hundreds of thousands
of dollars, railroad traffic and several
cities facing a possibility of epidemic,
as the result of pollution of their drink
ing water by the flood, the receding
waters were watched with consider
able anxiety.
Extensive Havoc Wrought.
Belated reports reaching Chicago
early today told of extensive havoc
wrought In" city and countryside with
in a radius of -fifty miles of Chicago.
Hundreds of farms In the Fox, Dos
Plaines, Rock and other river vnlleys
are Inundated.
Jollet, Aurora, and Elgin, Illinois,
suffered most from the floods. Streets
nnd basements were flooded, much
lowlnnd inundated and residents there
on driven from their homes, while In
a few cases the houses were floated
off thoir -foundations and carried
away by the waters. At all three
points dynamite was used to break
ice jams which held tho water In check
and with these broken and tho wnt
crs subsiding many persons wero ablo
to return to their homos today.
Sewer Waters Back Up.
In Chicago wator in tho sewers
backed up and hundreds of basements
were flooded, telephone service suf
fered when the conduit tunnels were
filled with water and subways under
railroad viaducts were flooded to the
extent that trnffic through them was
inipossiblo. Firemen were kept busy
all day pumping out flooded territory.
Street car service in some districts
also hampered by the high water.
Advices from outside the state re
ported flood conditions at Kansas
City, Mo., Oklahoma City and other
points.
Peoria, Ills., Jan. 22. Flood warn
ings to points along the Illinois river
were issued from the local weather
bureau here today. At noon tho
stage of the river was 17.9 and rising
rapidly, The weather forcaster pre
dicted a 25 foot stage by Monday
niornlu-e.
i
CORONER'S JURY FINDS QUIGLEY ' I
WAS MURDERED IN ROOMING HOUSE I
Mrs. Fannie Dawson, Who Witnessed the Doping of the Vic-
tim, Says Quigley's Eyes Took on a "Funny" Look After H
the Beer Had Been Given Him Helpless Miner Carried M
to His Room Later Philbrook Called on O'Brien to
Help Dispose of the Body of the Dead Man Phil- M
brook Advised O'Brien to Get Out of Town.
That Patrick Quigley, whose body
was found in the snow in the alley at
the rear of the Senate cafe on "the
morning of January 19th, came to
his death by foul means was the de
cision of the coroner's jury at noon
today, following the concluding ses
sion of the inquest, which was start
ed Wednesday. The jury was com
posed of C. A. Bass, C. J. Call and A.
Mutchler and its complete verdict fol
lows: "We have arrived at the following
conclusion: That a person designated
as Pat Quigley came to his death by
foul means at a rooming house at
352 Twenty-fifth street and was car
ried from there to the rear of the
Senate cafe and there deposited in
the snow by Frank Phillbrook and
James O'Brien."
The inquest was held be'fore Munici
pal Judge George S. Barker, with
County Attorney Joseph E. Evans act
ing for the state and Harold Packer
aa official stenographer. Testimony
was given by Mrs. Fannie Dawson,
proprietress of the rooming house
from which the body of Quigley was
alleged to have been carried, and
James, alias "Whitey," O'Brien, who
is alleged to have assisted in remov
ing the body from the house. Neither
of the witnesses was present while
the testimony of the other was being
taken. The court room was crowded
with members of the police and sher
iff's departments and spectators and
the stories of the witnesses were fol
lowed with keen interest.
Mrs. Dawson Examined.
Mrs. Dawson, who was taken from
her- rooming - house yesterday ado"
placed In the city jail, was first call
ed to the stand. Guided by questions
from tho county attorney, she said
she had lived in Ogden about a year,
having conducted the Wright Annex
rooming house on Twenty-fourth
street for about nine months and the
house at 3o2 Twenty-fifth street, for
the last month. She was the mother
of three children, she said, the eldest
of whom, Alfred, was IS years old.
The others are under ten years of age.
Her story of the happenings in which
Pat Quigley was concerned at her
place, which, she stated, had no name,
was about as follows:
Tuesday night, January IS, one of
her tenants, James O'Brien, whom she
had heard referred to as ''Blondey,"
I brought Pat Quigley to the rooming
house and the latter engaged a room
and paid for it. This was about 7:30
o'clock. About two hours later, the
two men returned and, as far as she
knew, came into the house empty
handed. They wero invited into her
fnmily living roorn, where Frank
Phillbrook, Dick Powers, "Paddy"
Flynn, the witness and her three chil
dren wero enjoying music from a
phonograph and tho older people were
drinking beer. At this point, Mrs.
Dawson faltered in her answers, de
claring she "couldn't remember any
thing." Beer Given Quigley.
She was given time to recover her
mental equilibrium and then said
Phillbrook came to the house about
S o'clock bringing three bottles of
beer. The last of thfs wns served
after O'Brien and Quigley arrived on
the scene and later one of the two
went to Quigley's room and got two
more bottles. Quigley drank one
glass of the liquor, she continued, and
about fifteen minutes later was given
another glassful, Phillbrook doing 'the
serving. The old man started to
drink the second glass, but spilled a
part of It and then seemed to grow
dizzy and nearly fell off his chair.
O'Brien and Phillbrook then took him
to his room.
Concerning this part of the cir
cumstances in connection with the
case, tho witness stated that Quigley
did not speak and his eyes looked
"funny," but he seemed able to walk
a little and the two men assisted,
rather than carried him, out of the
dining room. Shortly afterward.
O'Brien and Philbrook came back Co
the dining room and the latter, when
asked how tho "old man" was feel
ing, said, "O, bo's just pulling off a
stunt; he'll be all right."
Knockout Drops.
At this point in the game, Mrs. Daw
son said, she mado the statement to
Philbrook that sho didn't want any
more beer or "knockout" drops, be
coming suspicious that Quigley had
been made a victim of foul play. The
next day, she continued, she felt sure
that he had been given "knockout"
drops.
Her further testimony was to the
offect that she had known O'Brien
for about "a month and that he en
gaged a room from her soon after
she rented her present houso, paying
a month in advance. She became ac
quainted with Mr. and Mrs. Philbrook
while living at the Wright Annex,
where the former had paid room rent
to her by the week. At the present
time, the witness states, Mrs. Phil
brook was working for the new lessee
of tho Wright Annex for her room
rent. Tho witness also knew Flynn
and Powers while living at the
Wright Annex.
O'Brien Testimony.
O'Brien, in giving his testimony
reviewed his confession of yesterday, IH
telling of meeting Quigley and drink- kfM
ing with him in several saloons be- kjM
fore going o the rooming house. kfM
They were both intoxicated, he said, kjM
to such a degree that they were re- H
fused admittance to the Lyceum the- WmjM
,atre. They purchased three bottles H
of beer early in the evening and the kjM
witness placed the beer in a bureau H
drawer in Quigley's room. MM
They were invited into the Dawson H
living room, he said, by Philbrook. kjM
to have some beer, "but he did. not IH
like the Idea, believing that both he jH
and "the old man" had already taken
enough. Quigley, he said, "went im- jH
der" after drinking the first glass, MEM
which was served by Philbrook. The IH
miner was entirely unconscious and j
he, the witness, and Philbrook car- kjM
ried the miner. bodily to his room, LjM
one taking hold of his shoulders and mEM
the other his feet. He was breathing LjM
when they laid him on the bed and kjM
to O'Brien looked as though he had i kjM
been drugged. This was about 11 mjM
o'clock and the witness went to bed kjM
shortly afterward. mmwt
About 2 a. m., he was awakened MEM
by Philbrook, who said: jH
"Whitey, the. old man's dead and
we've got to take him out, I want mM
you to help me carry him down that MM
back stairs and leave him in the al- H
Continuing, the witness said, that, MM
blindly following the direction of H
Philbrook. he assisted the latter in H
the gruesome task of removing tho LjM
body of Quigley from the house and, H
.whlie doing -so, -the two -dropped -the H
corpse and it fell nearly to the bot- mM
torn of the stairs. After the body H
was placed on the snow, 'O'Brien im- km
mediately returned to his room, leav- mM
Ing Philbrook in the, alley, and went IH
to sleep. IH
Wednesday night, at the suggestion mfM
of Philbrook, he boarded a freight LjM
train and went to Montello. Nev., jH
where he was arrested. mM
Doctor's Examination. jf
Dr. A. A. Robinson, county physi- mM
cian. has made an examination of the jH
skuli and brain of Patrick Quigley MfM
who is supposed to have been mur- jH
dered In a rooming house Tuesday IH
night, and he states that he found no IH
fracture nor evidence of hemorrhage. MwM
The doctor found the abrasion on Uih H
man's head and face to be superficial H
and only flesh wounds. In his Judg- H
ment none of the wounds would hae H
caused death or even unconsciousness H
under ordinary circumstances, and H
yet he savs, k would he possible, un- ijjH
der certain physical conditions, for WwM
the man to have been stunned by 'twM
some of the blows and to have -died m
of exposure before regaining con- H
sciousness. jH
The doctor is not ready to report on MM
his investigation of the man's stom- IjH
ach, as to whether it contains poison. H
He 'states that ho desires to test the H
contents of the abdominal cavity H
well as the stomach to determine tin H
quantity of poison, if any, there was ' Mm
in the body at the time of death. " H
There is a possibility that State MMm
Chemist Herman Harmes will be re- , , H
quested to assist In a complete test H
for poison H
no- 1
CASCADE LIMITED I
STRUCK BY SLUE I
Dining Car and Day Coach 1
Carried Down Embankment jl
Three Hundred Feet. H
Many Believed to Be Dead or
Injured Cries for Help H
Are Heard. jH
Seattle Wash., Jan. 22-Great H
Northern train No. 25, the Cascade H
Limited, which, left Spokane tor Seat- H
tie last night, -was struck by an ava- H
lanche near Cor'ea station, on the H
west slope oE tlie "Cascade mountains, imfM
100 miles from Seattle at 7;lo a. m. jH
today and the. dining car and day IH
coach were torn from the tram and h
hurled 300 feet down tho mountain- iH
side. The loss of life Is unknown, H
but every person in the two cars must H
have been killed or injured. The din- , H
ing car, which -contained llvo com- H
pany employes, raught -fire. The day H
coach did not take fire, buth there ( H
was difficulty i entering it, owing IH
to the snow and debris with which it jM
was partly covered. . H
The engine and other cars remained H
on the track. The first passenger m H
found by the rescuers wns a little H
boy, alive but soriously hurt- lne H
next two passengers were dead. H
Two dead and throe injured have H
been taken from the dining car. W
Tho railroad officials have not ob- 4 H
talned.auv names and aro unable to H
state exactly how many persons were H
in the cars at the time of tho accl- H
