SNOWSLIDE BURIES G. N. TRAIN
Diner and Smoker Hurled Over Mountain Near Wellington
C. A. Reynold*
Oftto Case Geds a
Losdi 01 Ens Cftaeaft
Commercial Club secretary
points out the little joker in the
consolidation terms which the
Chamber of Commerce is urging
so diligently. See page 8.
EMCKSffI GIVES
WJUHMEPIISTO
GIL'S QUESTIONS
HOT SHOTS FIRED BY ERICKSON
ifl Gill says he voted for reduction of light rate*. WHEN?
fj The worst obstacle in the way of our city car line
was an agreement brought to me by' Mayor < >itl for
the purchase of the TRenton line on a tiasis that would
have netted Crawford and his allies about $3,000,000
c He's peddling flapdoodle about king the taxpayers
fnend. Taxes went up from 8 to 1$ mills while < >nl
was in the council.
Q Gill and R H. Thomson fixed location of dam before
I ever was in the council.
Why was tulxrculosi* hospital appropriation raised
above $125,000:- Let I>r. Matthews answer!
d Mayor "plays the baby" by blaming counrjl. for negli
gent work of his own subordinate* in water pipe line.-
Q He ridiculed woman suffrage when it needed friends.
But now he is purring around woman, mewing about
the glory of woman's Miffrage so loud that Susan H
Anthony is totally eclipsed.
0 He used to eat out of the hands of liquor dealer*, or
stand on his head in their spittoons, but' now he blos
soms out as thr nightingale 'of the prohibition move
ment.
0 When the Hay comes that single tax wins. *.*ll will go
about yelling" "amen" so loud that Henry George will
be forgotten.
With The Star as the
Open Forum for the
mayoralty candidates.
Councilman Eriekson to
day submits another pep
pery letter, replying to
Mayor Gill's letter in The
Star, and firing several
hot shots anew.
In Monday's Star. Aus
tin E. Griffiths, candi
date for mayor, will also
have a few choice words
to deliver.
Erickson's letter follows:
In The Star of January 17. 191*.
Mayor 0111 ha* much to aay about
what the public thinks of ma and
about queatlona he dealres me to
answer His sneer* and bombast
concern very little, hut I want
anawer his questions and prove
hy facts and records that some of
his statements are absolutely filse
Also that his assertion that he has
been Instrumental In reducing
taxes Is a KAKK AND A FRAUD
Want HI to Be Definite
Fn the P. I. of December 19, 1915.
he claims to ohave been |n*tru
mental In reducing light rate* from
I*r to Sc. In hi* letter to The
Htar. he reiterates that rite* were
reduced when he was In the coun
ell, but why doss he not . e ut
the number of the ordinance? I
<an give him the number of three
rrdlnances reducing rates during
rny term In the council- ordinances
tint are saving the people of Heat
tie half a million dollars a year He
should come along with proof of
the ordinances reducing rate* that
'he helped to pass or withdraw his
' lalm
Taxet Raited by Renlck Law
Tha mayor proclaim* In big
capitals the issue is to be tax
ation. and not "fakes," Ilka the
Renlck law or extending our
~ city car line into Ballard. Tha
tax levy for this year, thinks
to the Renlck law, hat an item
■*•«» (30,000 to help pay interest
on a million dollars' worth of
wsrrants bearing five per cant
AUSTIN E. GRIFFITHS, CANDIDATE FOR MAYOR, WILL SPEAK FROM THIS PLATFORM MONDAY IN THE STAR'S OPEN FOROM ON 'SOLD BRICKS!'
"Every man in Seattle should be interested enough in his own business to make a special
effort to aitend the tourist rate mass meeting Tuesday noon at the American theatre. It is
not a question of doubt that Seattle will profit if she wins this fight. This is purely a matter
of business."—C. A. REYNOLDS, chairman state public service commission.
"Let's all attend the meeting. These rates are an injustice to us all."—0. C. GRAVES,
manager of Cheasty's.
"I think every business man should go to the meeting. It is a matter of vital importance
to us."—ROBERT BOYNS, president Seattle Commercial club.
! interest. while thraa million
dollar* of Una city'* money lie*
Idle In the bank*, la there no
question of taxation about thi*?
la thla a "fake" Issue?
The mayor slept while the Trac
tlon company and Chamber of Com
m»rce got the Renlck law pa»«ed,
i raining t«*e« and crippling our city
owned Utilltle*
Saya Statement la False
The mayor nay* the building of
IXvialon A of the city car lln» wai
j a dlveralon of fund* and a crime
THE STATEMENT IS ABSO
LUTELY AND UNQUALIFIEDLY
FALSE.
The ordinance *übmlttlng the car
j line bond laaue I* No 2fiO<9. and In
! elude* Dtvlelon A. It waa voted
ui>on and paased by a large major
) Ity at the election of 1911. and the
I money *u expended aa the voter*
directed If It had not been, there
would have been a hundred Injunc
' tiona to prevent Ita construction
• The mayor cannot plead Ignorance
on thl* matter, h»i aii«e hi* name I*
|on the ordinance. The difference
i between the mayor and myself In
I regard to our city car line la that I
do not *et myself above the people
who voted to build It. but have
worked faithfully to carry It to a
| Hucceaaful conclusion. Me, on the
: other hand, ha* con*tantly vilified
i the project and voiced the *ent|«
: ment* of the Puget Sound Traction
company.
The mayor feel* toward people
who are given car service on our
' line luat a* the Traction company
' doe* toward Ita patrona on the 2Hrd
| iivn. line., where the company want*
\ to leave them without service be
j ca'iße It doe* not pay. By the *ame
j token the city should discontinue
j fnrnlahlng water to We*t Heattle
«rirl Queen Anne hill because In
rhoae dlatrlct* It costs us more
than we get for It.
That Renton Ulna "Deal"
Many obstacle* have been put In
the w»y of our city far line project,
but the worst of all wn an agree
nnent brought to me by Mayor Gill
for tha purchase of the Ranton line
on a bail* that would hava netted
(Continued on page 8.1
The Seattle Star
x THE ONLY PAPER IN SEATTLE THAT DARES TO PRINT THE NEWS :
VOLUME 18.
V SCENES IN FORMER SNOWSUDE DISASTER v | j||
TWO CO ACWS OFT;
MUIV ARE HUH)
Ont of tho damoMahad eoachaa
Tho alida, which iwtpt part of a O.
LUNDIN QUOTES
POEM TO HOO6E
Refers to "Tintinsbulations
of My Automatic
Mouth."
MERRY WAR MOW IS ON
Proaecutor Ixindln anawered In
kind. B*tuHv> the poetic attack of
Sheriff Hodge, who opened a aevere
criticism of the prna»ciitor KYlday
by penning a cutting couplet. In
which he addreased a« "He
atrtre Palrfa*'"
"I am reminded to the word* of
an unknown rhymster." aald l.undln,
apeaklng of Hodge's "outhurat,"
which wan occasioned by the prose
cutor'e refuaal to l**ue a warrant to
search the home of a prominent
hanker for contraband liquor
"Sweater than the murm'rlng
braazaa
Waftad from the balmy South
Are the tintlnabulatlona
Of my sutomstlc mouth.
How I love Ita giddy gurgle,
How I lova Its rhythmic flow.
How I love to wind my mouth
up.
How I lova to hear It go "
The poet. I,undln aald. had aptly
expre-*ed the opinion of Hodge en
tertalned by the prosecutor
"Aa to my policy of l**ulng war
ranta to search place* where liquor
I* thought to he," he *ald, "I ahall
Isaue warrant* whetever there le
reason to believe liquor Is being
sold."
He *ald he had talked the matter
over with I, K Klrkpatrick, of the
Antl Snloon league, who had agreed
that It wa* heat to first go after per
»on* who are selling the contra
hand.
I »m In favor of enforcement of
the law." he sild "Hut Klrlqiatrlek
and I concluded thai to begin a sy*
ienintlc search of homes wot.ld
prejudice the public agaliift the pro
hibition law so that It would he Im
possible to get a fair Jury to try any
case "
An effort will be male, on Febru
»ry 3, t i prosecutor stated, to de
ermine the ownership of liquor selr.
Ed In the sheriff's laid on the Rai
nier club
A hearing for that purpose will be
held In Justice llrlnker's court on
(hat date
SEATTLE. WASH., SATURDAY. JANUARY 22, 1916.
In'th* Wellington allda dlaaatar, March 1, 1910, In which aavaral acora of paaaangora loat thalr lives.
N. train ovar tho mountaineide Saturday, occurred alx mllaa from th» 'scone of tha former di water.
The difficult!** under which reicueri worked at the time of th e former tilde. Thle picture thou
how bodlee of the vlctime were wrapped up and hauled to place* where th*y could be put aboard tralm
FELIX CRANE IS
CIVEN SENTENCE
Felix Crans, "the goat of the
mighty," it under sentence Sat
urday to serve two and a half
to five yesrt at Walla Walla.
Despite promises of clemency
made by Proeeeutor Lundln,
who. Crane eayt, offered to
"eet him In the street" If he
would divulge the names of
Mgher-ups, for whom he col
lected money from unfortunate
women for police protection,
Crane ha* remained silent.
Crane, who has been called
the negro boss of the Seattle
underworld, was given the
minimum penitentiary term
Friday by Judge Gilliam.
Weather Forecast
Rain tonight and Bunday.
Seventeen days more, Includ
ing todayl
That'e all. If you do not reg
ieter by February 10, you will
have lout your chance to vote
In the coming city election.
Books will be open at the
Prefontalne building Saturday
night until 9 p. m. Register
now and avoid the rueh later.
Thus far, over 41,000 have
registered, tho there sre more
than twice that many voters In
Seattle.
EGG STARTS A FUSS
ORKOON CITY, Jan. 22 Mg
cauae of an argument over a turn!
bolle<l egg, Ambrose <ie*ta I* in
Jail
lie told hi* wife eggs were too ex
pensive to put 111 their daughter'*
lUnch. A battle ensued.
TIIIKM AT SK.ATTI.K.
High Low
t:IM> a. in .M S f !t:M p. m,I Sft
Bits p in . It t fl
ONE CENT
MEXICANS KILL
24TH AMERICAN
EL. PASO, Jan. 22 The bullet
shattered corpse of llert Aker*,
American cattleman -24th victim
of Mexican bandit* In two weeks
reached here today.
Aker* came to hi* death at the
hand* of several Mexicans, armed
with rifles, while he hunted stolen
cattle
With Douglas Ijiwrence. another
rancher from Ysleta, Texa*. lie en
tered Mexico last nlglit In Ills
search for the animal* the cattle
thieves had rustled Thursday.
The pair reached San Uoretmo, a
Mexican hamlet, the church spire
of which Is visible from here on
clear days,
In a corral back of a rude miobo
hut, Aker* spotted hi* stolen
beeves and pounded at the hovel
for admission.
A* he did so, several armed Mex
lain* appeared from different di
rection* Hiid shot lilm
TAJ^T
JL/edihon Jl
Br Ttlsphon# to Tb« fttar
LEAVENWORTH. Wash . Jan. 22—Two Great Northern
passenger coaches were hurled 300 feet into the bottom of a
mountainous gulch, and their human cargo buried -in rock
and snow, when a land and snow slide broke loose at the
entrance of the Horseshoe tunnel at Corea, Wash , at 6:45 this
morning
The number of dead and injured are estimated variously
at from five to 20
Five dead bodies have been recovered. FiVe injured 'also
have been rescued. Officials of the Great Northern believe
there were 15 persons in both cars, and therefore five persons
are still unaccounted for.
The train was known as the Spokane Owl, No. 25. leaving
Spokane at 8:15 Friday night. It was due at Seattle at 8:15
a. m. today. |
The scene of the accident is six miles west of Welling
ton, where many lives were lost in a similar accident in
Searching parties were more than an . hour locating the
smoking car. It was buried at the bottom of the gukh. It
was known to have contained 14 persons, according to ad-
vice* received here
Diner and Smoker Carried Over
The dining car was also thrown over the embankment.
No word had been received up to noon as to how many people
were carried over with it. It lies wrecked under debris near
the bottom of the Cascade mountain ravine.
Rescue parties are working desperately to save the lives
of those who may still be living in the wreckage.
A sleeping car was bowled off the tracks, but the
couplings held and it did not go over the brink
The train had been standing still for almost an hour near
the entrance to the Horseshoe tunnel when the side of thi
mountain ripped loose.
Just ahead of it. workmen were clearing the snow, rock
and dirt that had accumulated as a result of a smaller slide
a few hours earlier and blockcd traffic.
A special rescue train was dispatched from Leavenworth
shortly after noon.
It carried about 100 men
Corea, the place of the accident, is about 100 miles ea-i
of Seattle and six miles from Tye, formerly called Wellington
It is 40 miles west of here and three miles west of the «e«i
entrance of the Cascade tunnel.
The train carried K) people, it is stated.
Further slides are feared. Telegraph connections were
severed shortly after the first details of the accident reache I
here. .
Near Scene of Former Disaster
The scene of the present disaster is six miles from Tye.
formerly called Wellington, where the most disastrous snow
slide in the history of the state occurred early in the morn
ing of March 1, I*slo, when about <>0 were killed and 3)
injured.
It took days before the bodies could be recovered, owing
to the enormous amount of snow which buried the train and
the victims in it.
It was weeks before the full number of dead could even
be estimated with any decree of certainty.
The work of recovering the bodies proceeded slowly.
Telegraph and telephone communications were completely
broken down by the heavy slides.
The slide at that time came with terrific force, almost
without warning, and smashed some of the cars in the threat
Northern train to splinters. Fourteen of the dead had lived
in Seattle, and nearly every city in the Northwest claimed a
(Continued on Paqe Two.)
