"TATE
3S1TV
JAt .j6
INDEPENDENT
NON-PARTISAN
PTV
Official Organ of the Building Trades Council of Cincinnati and Vicinity
Vol. III. No. 40
CINCINNATI, OHIO, JANUARY 22, 1916
One Dollar a Year
OH'
UN
UBWP -41tittftfillUKM4M
-"" 729370
Organized Labor Had No Part
In the Youngstown Strike
Entire Trouble Due to Ignorant Foreigners Who Were Unorganized
and Thought Themselves Persecuted Interview With a Labor Man
Who Was On the Spot.
A careful study of the East Youngs
town situation which involves riots, ar
son and murder, brings one to think
there may he several sides to this ques
tion and that what first appeared to be
a plain case of murder and destruction,
may have some extenuating circum
stances. One of the best known officials of
organized labor, who was in East
Youngstown during the recent strike,
and who visited this city during the
week, expresses the view that labor, as
an organization, had nothing whatever
to do with the strike or the causes lead
ing up to the walkout and the resulting
destruction of life and property. This
gentleman said to a representative of
the Labor Advocate that he believed
union labor was not involved, excent to
a very small extent and that the trouble
was confined almost entirely to the ranks
of ignorant foreigners, few of whom arc
able to speak our language.
"Conditions in East Youngstown arc
rather peculiar, although the Pittsburgh
and Chicago industrial districts arc simi- i
I1 lar. Few of the men who work in the
steel mills are unionized and few un
derstand our language. For this reason,
officials of organized labor found it ex-
ri. utility minimi, iu uL-yuu.uu Willi inc
rj -...- ...steikerf,whciwv,-ettcinpreWBrimr-
about a settlement of the trouble. We
were forced to import interpreters and
these are not easy to find.
"The East Youngstown trouble in
volved few Americans, practically all of
the men being foreigners. This made
the situation all the more difficult. These
men knew nothing of our language or
customs and it was evident to them that
when the saloons closed during the after
noon of the first day of the strike, that
they were being deprived of their rights.
In 'most cases they were kicked out of
the saloon when the order to close was
received and were in humor to resist
when some one told them they were
being robbed and defrauded; the sug
gestion being that they obtain by force
that which they had been denied the
right to buy. Then, after these men
filled themselves with alcohol, came the
word to destroy and the fires followed.
"Further, I found that there was no
disorder at the plants or on the streets
until after the guards at the Tube plant
fired and wounded bystanders. These
men, knowing nothing of our language,
believed they were being imposed upon
and adopted force as a remedy; that
about covers the whole story, although
there arc interesting angles.
"Officials of the Youngstown Sheet &
Tube Co. have refused to meet repre
sentatives of the men and a condition
of industrial despotism has existed there
for years. The policy of the company
has been to exploit foreign labor and to
hold this over the heads of American
workers as a club. These foreigners arc
of the commonest possible type and
should be refused admittance to the
country. They know nothing and care
less of the interests of American labor
and rarely remain more than a few
years in this country.
"Wages are low, entirely too low, and
there is no doubt that the men had just
cause of complaint. American labor
would not endure the conditions which
exist in these steel plants; not even
though paid twice the money which
these foreigners receive; but, the whole
question hinges upon the idea that with
the aid of these ignorant foreigners, the
manufacturer can dominate and dictate
price and terms to American workmen.
"I have reliable information that the
first shot fired in the East Youngstown
riot came from a gun in the hands of
the Director of Safety of that city. I
believe there is no doubt as to the ac
curacy of this, and labor officials who
were on the ground believe there would
have been no serious trouble had this
one official remained cool.
"Organized labor was interested only in
an indirect way and our efforts were
confined to the restoration of peace; we
have nothing to gain except to sec peace
restored.
"The outcome of the entire trouble is
a substantial increase in wages, which
could have been obtained without a re-
Hliri!r'rM!ii!iyHBlH?vf iijl-iSiJiBiwi 't.HPS lalfcjwC. dHBHJEilBuMKllBv
HON. MYRON
Candidate for tin- Itepuhlican Nomination for
From Ohio.
sort to a strike, had these men been
Americans and bad the officials of the
Tube Company been willing to regard
their employees as other than cattle."
UNIONS TO AID
U. S. LABOR PLAN
Organized labor in Cincinnati will not
celebrate "Industrial Relations Day," an
nounced from Washington as a national
event of labor unions for Sunday.
Labor leaders here were informed of
the venture too late.
Thomas McManus, president of Cen
tral Labor Council, says Cincinnati un
ions may prepare a program for a later
date, with speakers from the industrial
Relations Commission.
In many cities union committees will
be named to support the industrial re
lations committee.
These committees will hack efforts for
a drastic inheritance tax, Government
ownership of telephones and telegraphs,
Government manufacture of arms and
munitions, Government protection of the
rights of workers to organize, protest
against abuses of justice by courts and
corporations.
It is said 07.'j labor unions have joined
the movement, and that the Federal
committee can quickly reach i!,S()(),0()()
trade unionists through local commit
tees. 1XCOMH IllfilllOlt; KXI'KNSK
JiHSS.
Chicago. Estimates by the bureau of
railway news and statistics shows that
during the year 101f American railway
revenues increased $101,."i28,2!)4 and ex
penses decreased $fl!),:H7,88:i, leaving a
net income increase, after deducting
taxes, over 1914, of $1(i8,!).W,.')48. It is
stated that "through the adoption of
rigid economics the operating expenses
were kept down to a level that enabled
the roads to show an increase in net
operating revenues of nearly $1 (10,000,
000." The figures arc based on interstate
commerce commission reports.
T. HERRICK
United Sinti's Senator
FINAL PLANS FOR STRIKE
Of 10,000 Garment Workers Dis
cussed at Philadelphia Meeting.
Philadelphia, Pa., Jan. 10. Final
plans for a strike of 10,000 garment
workers in this city tomorrow, unless
their demands arc granted, were dis
cussed at a mass-meeting nf members
of the International Ladies' Garment
Workers today.
Benjamin Schlcssingcr, president of
the union, presided and decided that the
organization is prepareil to stay out
twenty-seven weeks if necessary, al
though he did not believe the strike
will last more than a few days. Five
hundred pickets will meet tomorrow
at .V.H0 o'clock and, after rounding up
the workers, will march to a hall where
they will be addressed by Samuel
Gompers, president of the American
Federation of Labor, anil Frank Mor
rison, secretary of the organization.
The garment workers seek higher
wages, better working conditions and
recognition of the union. Leaders in
the movement have announced their
willingness to submit their demands to
an arbitration committee.
JUDGE HOWARD H0LLISTER
SAYS HE BELIEVES IN STRIKES
"Do you believe in strikes?" Judge
llollister of the United States District
court Tuesday morning asked Milan
Baizin, Hungarian cabinet maker, 1710
Elm street, an applicant for citizen
ship. "No," replied Baizin. "I belong to
the union, but when there is a strike I
get away."
"I believe in strikes they often ei
fect a good purpose," said Judge llol
lister. The judge had before him a crowd of
foreigners seeking American citizen
ship and the applicants were question
ed by Special Examiner Shockley
The Mirror Manufacturers
Association
New Branch of the Trust Has Been Organized in
Cincinnati and Opened Offices in the Union Trust
Building Frank L. Brown, Formerly With the Pitts
burgh Plate Glass Company, Elected Secretary of the
New Combination.
In this day and time things move rap
idly and when one of the favored in
terests finds itself attacked in one di
rection, it has some plan rcadv to
launch as an offset. That this rule is
no exception in the present case is
shown by the appearance in Cincinnati
of the so-called Mirror Manufacturers'
Association, which has established an
office in the Union Trust Building.
It was not until the recent develop
ments concerning the Pittsburgh Plate
Glass Company came to light that this
new association thought worth while to
rent an office, but soon as it was known
that people were getting wise to their
ways, the officials of the plate glass
trust concluded it was time to estab
lish a semblance of competition, hence
the launching of this new enterprise,
the Mirror Manufacturers' Association.
In other words the plate glass trust
believe the people of this city arc get
ting a little too wise and that there
must be competition, but they arc go
ing to fool no one. The people ex
pected just such a scheme and arc en
tirely prepared for it.
A gentlemen's agreement to hold up
prices and to cow down labor, over
ride the rights of the people and do bus
iness 011 the jjld Jiucsof ruleqrruin,,!
is me oniy oasis upon wmen tnc -Mirror
Manufacturers' Association is based
and the entire scheme is founded upon
the ordinary business methods of the
Pittsburgh Plate Glass Company, which
recognizes no right, neither God, man
or the devil entering into their calcu
lation, except in so far as direct finan
cial monopoly is concerned.
That the painting contractors, paint
ers, and glaziers who are now protest
ing against the methods of the plate
glass trust and the refusal of Manager
Parker to accord a hearing of the griev
ances, have expected just such a devel
opment as the launching of the Mirror
Manufacturers' Association, is evident
and that no one has been fooled is
equally plain. This move on the part
of the plate glass trust has been delay
ed and union labor has expected it for
some time.
There may be and doubtless are.
bone-heads in the ranks of the local
The Building
Holds Its Regular Meeting. Only Routine Business
Transacted.
The regular meeting of the Building
Trades Council was held Thursday eve
ning, being called to order by Presi
dent Cullen.
The minutes of the previous meeting
was read and after some changes, were
adopted.
A communication from Painters' Dis
trict Council Xo. 12 appointing James
Johnson as delegate to the Building
Trades Council in place of Thomas Mu
gavin was received and read. Brother
Johnson being present, was duly obli
gated. The working agreement between the
employers and the International Asso
ciation of Heat and Frost Insulators and
Asbestos Workers Xo. S was read and
referred to the Board of Business
Agents.
Secretary Hock read bis regular re
MSOMSII CONVICT liABOK.
Pittsburg, Pa. It is stated that 500
prisoners at the Western penitentiary
have ceased work in the hat, broom and
hosiery departments because of the new
convict-labor law, which took effect the
first of the year, and which provides that
products of the penitentiary shall be con
sumed by State and county institutions.
Until the prison labor commission has
perfected its plans, work at the Western
penitentiary will be apportioned among
those made idle because of the law.
labor organizations, but there are some
men of reasonable intelligence and this
move on the part of the plate glass
trust has been forecasted for some time.
Among union men the glass trust is
so well known, its arbitrary methods so
well understood, that labor is not to be
taken by surprise and the sentiment of
labor officials is that the trust delayed
opening this new office too long, if a
surprise was anticipated.
The painters and glaziers of this city
have done all they could to keep the
peace and after being forced to go on
strike, or after being locked out, they
made every effort to reach a settlement
with the bosses. These bosses were,
almost to a man, in favor of coming to
immediate terms with the men. One
man, the man who controls the situa
tion, the man of power who has the
glass trust behind him, refused to talk.
This man Parker, local manager of the
Pittsburgh Plate Glass Company, is the
one who is responsible for the present
unsatisfactory condition and the estab
lishment of the Mirror Manufacturers'
Association in the Union Trust build
ing is but another trump card in his
hand.
If Mr. Parker would come out in the
opeiirtalk'-biiiiTggs"midtre-.rf;tiie'-of-
ficials of the painters' and glaziers' un
ions as though they were men, he would
not be forced to rent these expensive
offices.
Then the Mirror Manufacturers' As
sociation showed good common sense
by appointing Mr. Frank L. Brown,
formerly of the Pittsburgh Plate Glass
Company as secretary.
Mr. Brown is doubtless thoroughly
familiar with the policy of the glass
trust and understands inst what is want
ed: otherwise he would not have been
placed at the head of this new competi
tor of the Pittsburgh Plate Glass Com
pany. Wonders will never cease but it is
not supposed for one minute that there
will be added competition in the glass
business in Cincinnati: Mr. Brown is
on to his job and could not hold it un
less he followed the schedule as laid
down in the book of law.
Trades Council
port. Among other things, he stated
that he and Brother McGinnis had suc
ceeded in taking the common labor off
the Pogne job and turning the work
over to the hodcarriers.
Brother Anderson, chairman of the
Board of Trustees, made his semi-annual
report, which shows that the Build
ing Trades Council is stronger financial
ly than it has been for years ; the con
.(iition was very gratifying to the mem
bers and was an endorsement of the
business management of the present ad
ministration. All trades reported business good.
Under the head of good and welfare,
various topics were discussed which
were of interest to the organization.
There being no further business, the
Council adjourned to next Thursday
night.
LOAN SIIAltKS OUSTKI).
Dayton, O. The city welfare depart
ment reports that 10 loan shark estab
lishments have been put out of business
since the establishment of the depart
ment's division of legal aid, in 1914. The
division has also given legal advice to
1,404 persons and aided them in defense
against oppressive litigation by settling
controversies amicably.
