THE. COLFAX CHIRONICLE
Absorbed the GRANT PARISH DEMOCRAT May 1, 1909
8 Democratic 3ournal, devoted to Local and 6eneral News, Literature, Science, Agriculture, 6tc.
VOL. XL COLFAX, GRANT PARISH, LA., SATURDAY, JANUARY 22, 1916 NUMBER 14
epe's View Read at Church Unity
Conference.
A conforence of clergymen
which has for its object the
uniting of all Christian churches
throughout the world, opened at
Garden City on the night of Jan
-uary 5.
The delegates represented ma
ny denominations, including Pro
testant Episcopal, Baptist, Lu
therans and Presbyterians. The
assemblage is known as the
North American Preparatory
Conference and has total mem
bership of 203.
The mreeting was given over to
devotional exercises. the reading
of a report by the secretary and
and address by the Right Bev.
Bishop C. P. Anderson, of Chi
cago; also the reading of a letter
from Cardinal Gasparri, paper
secretary of state, written, it
was said, at the direction of Pope
Benedict.
Robert H. Gardner, secretary
of the conference, read the letter
from Cardinal Gasparri. in which
he said that Pope Benedict was
pleased with the project "in the
sincerest spirit and without prej
udice." Cardinal Gasparri's let
ter follows:
"Your project of an interna
tional convention of all who be
lieve in Jesus Christ as God and
Savior to accomplish the speedy
fulfillment of the final prayer of
the Lord, that all may be one, I
have, in obedience to your re
quest, submitted to the most
r'--b- sed father.
"I nd-Rotjhere describe the
affection with w saw the
august pontiff kindled for
"For you well know that the
plans of the Roman pontiffs,
their cares and their labors have
always been specially directed to
the end that the sole and unique
church which Jesus Christ or
dained and sanctified with His
d vine blood should be most
zealously guarded and maintain
ed, whole, pure and ever abound
ing in love and that it should
both let its light shine and open
wide its door for all who rejoice
in the name of man and who de
sire to gain holiness upon earth
and eternal happiness in Heaven.
"The august pontiff, there
fore was pleased with your pro
ject of examining in a sincere
spirit and without prejudice the
essential form of the church, 'or
the inner essence of the church.'
"He earnestly hopes that un
der the spell of its native beauty
you may settle all disputes and
work with prosperous issue to
the end that the mystical body
of Christ be no longer suffered
to be rent and torn, but that by
harmony and co-operation of
men's minds and likewise by the
concord of their wills, unity of
faith and communion may at last
prevail throughoutthe world of
men.
"Thanking you, then that you
have thought well to request the
aid and support of the Roman
pontiff in expediting your wor
thy project his holiness expresses
his earnest desire that the end
may answer your expectation.
S"He asks the same of Christ
Jesus with fervent prayers, all
the more because, with the voice
orbf Christ himself sounding be
fore and bidding him he knows
that he h!mself, as the one to
Swhom all men have been given
over to be fed, is the source and
cause of the unity of the church."
The Gist of It.
"Last December 1 had a very severe
cold and was nearly down sick in bed.
I bought two bottles of Chamberlain'i
Cough Remedy and it was only a very
few days until I was completely restor*
ed to bealth," writes O. J. Metcalf,
Westherby, Mo. If you wonld know
the value of this remedy, ask any on
o- . O has usemd it. Obtaiunable every*
hee t-Adv. A
To the Voters of Grant Parish.
Only a few days remain be
fore the Democratic primary
election on next Tuesday the
25th inst.
It has not been possible for me
to see each one personally in be
half of my candidacy for Coro
ner, I therefore take this method
of addressing a few words to
you on the eve of the election.
I have been engaged in the
general practice of medicine and
surgery in Grant parish for fif
teen years, and have labored
faithfully to perform my duties
well, not only in my chosen pro
fession, but also have earnestly
endeavored to be a useful citi- c
zen to the parish and State.
During my residence in the
parish I have been a member of
the local school board continu
ously and have labored zealously
to promote the cause of educa- g
tion. u
In the event you should nomi- v
nate me for coroner on next
Tuesday, it will be my ambition U
to discharge the duties of the of
fice to the best interest of the v
citizens of the parish.
While I shall expect a fair and
reasonable remuneration for my
services if elected, I shall also r
endeavor not to put the parish to I
any unnecessary expense in per- t
forming the duties of the office.
Your vote and support is so
licited on these principles: d
First-A prompt and thorough r
investigation whenever it be
comes necessary to hold an in
quest.
Socond-To render profession
al services when needed to the f
prisoners in the jail at a reason
able fee.
With this I submit my candi
dacy to you for your careful con- i
sideration and if elected to this
office I will strive to the best of
my ability to discharge all duties
to the best welfare of the peo
ple of the parish.
J. L. WOODALL.
Sure Signs of a Torpid Liver.
If you have spells of dizziness, head
aches, biliousness or constipation, look
to your liver for the cause. You can
get relief by taking Po-Do-Lax. It
acts quickly on the liver, helps it to
discharge the poison and tone up the
system. Helps the stomach too. Only
50c at druggists. - Adv.-1.
Ship's Under-Water Eye Sights Hidden
Mine.
To assist battleships and de
stroyers in locating submerged
mines, an American has develop
ed an under-sea searchlight
equipment which, when used in
conjunction with a special water
glass, makes it possible to distin
guish objects at a distance of 200
feet. A powerful electric lamp
is mounted on one side of a ves
sel below the water line, at its
bow. This may be turned to
different angles by an operator
on deck. Immediately forward
of this is the glass, similar to a
Smodified periscope, forming the
e ship's under-sea eye and used to
rfollow the illuminated path.
When a mine is located in a ves
[ sel's course a torpedo is launched
iwhich may be discharged elec
trically. This is watched and at
the proper instant detoned, thus
exploding the mine. It is be
e lieved that the device could also
'be used on mine sweepers to ad
t vantage.--Popular Mechanics
Magazine.
d Colds Need Attentio.
,' Internal throat and chest troubles
produce mnflamation, irritation, swell
ing or scoreness and unless checked at
. once, are likely to lead to serious trou
I. ble. Caught in time Dr. Bell's Pine
s Tar-Hony loosens the phlegm and de
- stroys the gyrms which have settled in
- the throat or nose. It is soothing and
, heahog. Pinie is antiseptic; boney is
r sootying-both to-gether possess excel
e lent medicinal goualities for fighting
- cold germs. Insst on Dr. Bell's Pine
lTar-Honey. ie all druggist&-Adv-l. 1
W. F. Millsaps of Ouachita
Candidate for Attorney General, who
believes in the enforcement of Sunday,
Gay-Shattuck, anti-gambling, prohibi
tion laws, and laws for the regulation
and control of trusts.
He solicits your vote and influence.
-Advertisement.
The Death of E. E. Fitzgerald.
Mr. E. E. Fitzgerald, general mana
ger of the Grant Timber and Manufact
uring Co., of Selma, Grant parish, La.,
who died in a sanitarium at 2 p. m. on
Friday, Jan. 7, 1916, was a man of un
usual attainments and business enter
prise. He was a man of pleasing per
sonality, and made and retained friends
where he went. The Minden Signal
Democrat gives the following account
of his funeral and brief sketch of his
life:
Never has there been such an out
pouring of people in this section.
Friends (he had no enemies) came from
all walks in life to pay the last respect
to one of our most beloved and promi
nent citizens. The negroes who had
been employed by him in the great in
dustries, respectfully joined the sor
rowful procession as it neared the cem
etery. During the funeral all business
was suspended, The mill was hushed
and it seemed that every one in the
community was paving honor to all that
was mortal of this beloved man. The
floral gifts were of unusual beauty and
in countless numbers. The sacred
mound was covered with brightest and
most beautiful blossoms and the grave
robbed of all its gloom. Friends from
Wisconsin, New Orleans, St. Louis,
3 Texarkana, Shrevesport, Stamps, Sel
ma and Spring Hill, and many distant
points, came to attend his funeral.
The honorary pall bearers were Messrs.
Wm. Buchanan, Robert Buchanan, Jas.
A. Buchanan and W. R. Grimm, of
Texarkana; T. C. Whitmarsh, J. G.
Furguson, J. F. Rudd and T. H. Gar
rett of St. Louis; Robt. Carpenter, of
New Orleans; John Bonner, of Hous
ton; J. A. Brown, J. G. Wagoner, Geo,
° A. Kelly. J. F. Giles, W. A. Davis, W.
t W. Sheafe, R. H. Miller and Frank W.
Todd. The active pall bearers were 1
e Massrs. M. V. Mason, J. G, Pope, H.
Y B. Hilbreth, of Selma; J. T. Haynes, of
Winnfield; W. H. Luck, J. W. Cox, B.
M. Cannon, and R. I. Gould, of Minden.
E. E. Fitzgerald was born November
20th, 1865, in Oconto, Wisconsin; was
the son of Nancy and Edward Fitzger
aid. In 1874 he moved to Wausaw, and
at the age of 25 was married to Miss
it Emma Schneider, of Wausaw. For
n eight years he was with the D. J. Mur
rray Manufacturing Co. In 1891 he ac
cepted the position as traveling sales
man for the Edward Ballis Co., of Mil
waukee, and in 1900 he came to Minden
p to enter the lumber business with the
- Buchanan interests and organized the
Minden Lumber Co., of which he has
been vice president and general mana
ger continuously. He was the general
r manager of the Grant Timber and Man
'd ufacturing Co. at Selma, and President
a of the Louisiana Logging Company,
and was director -in many other suc
cessful enterprises. He was a man of
Swonderful mechanical genius and was a
* recognized authority as to the workings
- of machinery. He invented and pat
dented the double cut band saw and oth
Ser saw mill appliances that lessened la
bor and were valuable additions in the
lumber business. In 1892 he designed
S and installed the C. A. Smith mill at
- Minneapolis and the Cuimmer & Diggin
o mill at Cadiallic, Mich., and as travel
Sing salesman is said to have sold more
saw mills than any other man on the
road during the years of his service.
His ability, genial manner and perfect
honesty and justness made for him
Slasting friends and a name that will
I-endure for ages.
at Six-Year-Old Had Croup.
U "1 have a little girl six years old who
C has a good deal of trouble with croup,"
e writes W. -. Curry, Evansville, Ind.
in "1 have used Foley's Honey and Tar,
is obtaining instant relief for her. My
I- wife and I also use it and will say it is
g the best cure for a bad cold, cough,
e- throat trouble and eroup that I ever
1. saw. 1, W. DuncaaCn--Adv.
WE GO 'EM ONE
BETTER
The order of the day seems to be to give "something for nothing." On
this point we cannot afford for any one to treat the public better than we
can. Therefore for one week
Beginning Monday, January 24
We offer to our friends and customers
Bargains that will Excell Any Offered by Our
Competitors and Still Go 'Em One Better
One case of men's first class ribbed under- Kripendorf-Ditman shoes for ladies, the
wear, $1 retail value, per suit ................... best on earth, $4 value .......................... 1 5
1 dozen pieces flannel outing, per yard .............. Kripendorf-Ditman shoes, $3.50 value ..
20 pieces choice new ginghams, per yard ........... Kripendorf-Ditman shoes, $8.00 value .....
A big lot boys' heavy winter hose, 25c value..2k Kripendorf-Ditman shoes, $2.50 value ......
Choice ladies' winter dress goods, 25e value... 9 The Godman and Fairfield shoes, every pair gear
S anteed, at 25 per cent reduction.
Choice ladies' winter dress goods, 0e value... Rubber boots and shoes at reductions to suit the
The famous Crosset shoe, $5 value ............ 50 $ , yer.
S Men's odd coats, just a few left. Price cuts no
Crosset shoes, $4 value ............................. figure-THEY WILL GO.
Crossett shoes, $3.50 value .......................$x.65 Men's and boys' pants at your own price.
Just a few choice hats in our millinery department at 50c on the dollar
Sack of Flour Free with every $10 Purchase
In addition to these wonderful reductions we will give one sack of our best
flour free of charge to each and every customer purchasing in any one day of
next week $10 worth of anything in the dry goods line. This offer should
appeal to every family to lay in supplies, for this opportsty will ant ceae again sm.
Our Grocery Department is Complete and Prices are Rock Bottom
J. W. Duncan Co. Ltd.
Railroad Ave. : : Colfax, La.
We Must Maintain Roads as Well as
Build Them.
In many a country in the South
the condition of the roads is the
same as those which the editor
of the Clinton Drnocrat de
scribes as existing in his coun
try. He says:
"We can't survive the impres
sion that we have wasted a lot
of money; that we have built a
lot of roads that have gone back
to their former condition, from
neglect; that we have burdened
our posterity with a debt that
has proved to be a rather bad
investment. We have burdened
our children with bonds that will
be mighty hard to pay, and we
will have to answer for a great
deal, if for their $150,000 we
leave them a legacy of mudholes,
a heritage of sand and water.
One of the main defects in our
present program, we think, is
the fact that we are spending all
of our money on construction and
are not taking proper thought
for the maintenance of roads."
Subscribe for the Chronicle.
Notice of Adinalstration.
State of Louisiana, Parish of Grant,
18th Judicial District Court.
Succession of Mary Atter Davis.
Notice is hereby given that Jas. A.
Hyde has this day made application for
appointment as administrator of the
above named succession.
You are therefore hereby notified to
Sle such opposition as you may hereto
for said appointment, within ten days
from date hereof, else letters of ad
ministration will issue as prayed for.
Witness Hon. W. F. Blackman, judge
of said court.
Given under my official seal an. sig
nature on this the 19th day of Jandary.
A. D. X916. J. J. UINN,
Clerk Dia. Cort.
Down O His Back.
"About two years ago I got down on
my back," writes Solomon Bequette,
Flat River, Mo. "I got a 50c box of
Foley Kidney Pills and they straighten
ed me right up. I recommend them to
all who have kidney trouble." Rheu
matic aches and. pains, soreness and
stiffness, yield quickly to Foley Kidney
Pills. J. W. Duncan Co.-Adv.
Bridging the distance 'twixt
you and "anywhere."
The Bell Telephone, with its 16, W,00 miles of
wire, brings millions of people within earshot of
your voice.
Many thousand of them, living within fifty or a
hundred miles, can be reached for a emell toll charge.
Are you making use of this vast bridge on your
farm, in your home or in your busines. There's a
profit of time, money or convenience for you in the
Bell Telephone if you will use it.
Grasp the Opportunity!
Call or write the manager today.
CUMBERLAND TELEPHONE
& TELEGRAPH COMPANY
-" - ...
Our Jitmey OUer-Ths sad 5,e.
Don't miss this. Cut out this slip,
enclose with five cents to Foley & Co.,
Chicago, Ill., writing your name and
address clearly. You will reeiv in
return a trial package containi Feo
ley's Honey and Tar Compound, for
coughs, colds and croup, Po iy Kiney
Pills, and Foley Cathartick ' J
W. Duncan Co.-Adv.
