SWORDS HAS NO ROOM TO URIZE 0T
PAVY AND GARLAND ANSWER SWORDS' CIRCULAR LETTER
THE ST. LANDRY CLARION
"Heri Shall The Press The People's Rights Maintain, Unawed by Inluence and Unbribed by Cain."
VOLUME XXVI-NO 14. OPELOUSAS, LA., SATURDAY, JANUARY 22, 1916. $1.90 PER YEA1
e i. SWUHUS US I S IU
ANYTHING TO GET VOTES
St. Landry sheriff In Criticizing Others Forgets
That He Has Repeatedly Disgraced
the Parish of St. Landry
.-We have before the Opelousas
terprise, wherein appears a speech
h is supposed to lave been made
Sheriff Swords in he interest of
candidacy, at W hington. We
not undertake a discussion of
issues raised by the Sheriff in this
h because some are so purile, so
rous as to be unw rthy of serious
deration. We ha e naught to do
the personal matters or personal
salons which the Sheriff has seen
` to inject in his speech, but there
some passages which we cannot
tto go unchalle d.
the labored effor he seeks to
the people of thisptarish believe
he has heretofore taken upon him
to act as the politicatfpster father
P. M. Fontenot and in this speech
says: "Darius Fontenot did not
time to celebrate his advent into
in 1908 be cause I put him in too
" For bold audacity and unmiti
gaul, this statement is the limit.
man familiar with the political
of this Parish during the year
eows that Sheriff Swords is as
responsible for the election ofi -
Fontenot as Assessor as were
p.tlemen who were supporting
gndidacy of the other two oppos
Everybody knows or should 1
:because it is a fact, that in
campaign Messrs. Dossman, An-I
t and Swords were supporting i
dacy of Mr. Adraste Lafleur
essor and that the opposing po.
faction were supporting the can
of A. H. Mouton. Everybody
that D. M. Fonttenot, unassist
y any political faction, with the
ns divided into two hostile
announced himseht as a candi- 1
for Assessor on a non-partisan c
With no other asset but an
le name he launched his can- .
and `appealed directly to the c
of this parish for their support. t
bs untiring efforts he so won the
ce and esteem of the -voters a
s parish that in that contest he
tfl the race tor Assessbr by 750
ahead of the next highest man.
Now if Sheriff Swords was support
'Lafleur, as he must admit If he s
es to be honest, in the name of )t
men sense, how can he claim to
responsible for the election of "
F ntenot as Assessor. But it ]
$e remembered that the Sheriff t
had a serious fight on hand p
time. There Were four can
dr Sheriff and in the first o
the race was narrowed down a
entest between Swords and A. t
The other two candidates o
had tendered their support g
second primary to Dejean and n
of the second primary was o
of serious and grave con- v
to Sheriff Swords. When d
that his candidate for As
had failed to lead in the first f
but that the independent non
candidate, Fontenot, had de- c
more strength than he, a
politician, had given him credit
bestirred himself to eliminate
the second primary any contest
Assessor. Of course he had no
on Fontenot and had no reason
roach him to assist him in the
primary, but eliminated this
fight for Assessor, which might
Seopardize his own nomina
IHe called upon Mr. Lafleur, his
and his candidate, to withdraw
the race, urging as a reason
Smight result in his own defeat
there be a second primary for
or. Mr. Lafleur acceeded to
emand of his friend Swords and
Sfrom the race. Sheriff
said that he paid Mr. Lafleur
Hundred Dollars and would
the people of this parish to be
that this payment was made in
terest of some other than him
The manager of this paper
too well that entire transaction
t the people to be deceived by
iUawarranted aspersion as against a
u man who has always lived an
and upright life and always
his responsibilities at their ma, b
The payment by Sherifft
was entirely in his own inter' i
It was to eliminate a second prl
for Assessor and to prevent the
flty of a combination in the
primary between A. W. Dejean,
to for Sherlif, and either Mr. I
or Mr. Fontenot, as the case b
might be. Sheriff Swords knew that
having requested Mr. Lafleur to be
come a candidate that in this primary
he would have been compelled to op.
pose Darius Fontenot and this he did
not want to do by reason of the
strength which Mr. Fontenot had de
veloped as an independent non-parti
san candidate. Whatever was paid by
Sheriff Swords was paid for his own
account in his own interest, and we
say without the knowledge, consent or
acquiescence of D. M. Fontenot. We
make this statement advisedly be
cause the manager of this paper, who
was then Clerk of Court, nominated
in that same primary for re-election.
was a party to the entirb transaction
and has full knowledge of every detail
leading up to that settlement.
Again, Sheriff Swords claims that
he has made Darius Fontenot politi
cally. In fact, he claims he made
[everybody politically in this parish
during the last 16 years. Four years
ago when Sheriff Swords-was a candi
date against Charles Thibodeau, Mr.
Darius Fontenot was a candidate
for Assessor against Sidney Hebrard.
They ran .on the same ticket.
each rendering such assistance, one
to the other, as they could. At the
same time Henry Lastrapes was a
candidate for the offite of Clerk of
Court against Henry Estorge. An ex
amination of the returns must con
vince the most ordinary mind that
Darius Fontenot was more instrument
al in electing Sheriff Swords than
Swords was in electing him -Assesso.
Whilst Swords defeated Mr. Thibo
deau but by 91 votes and Mr. Las
trapes defeated Mr. Estorge by but 90
votes, Darius Fontenot defeated his
opponent by .654 votes. Will any
reasonable man believe that the weak
er man elected the stronger man to
office, or isn't it natural to conclude
that Darius Fontenot the stronger
elected Marion L. Swords, the weaker,
sheriff.
ARE WE RIGHT?
The manager of this paper has
jstated' in public speeches made during
the couerse of this campaign:
That if one half of what Swords
Ssaid about Thibodeau four years ago
was true, and if one half stated by
Thibodeau about Sheriff Swords was
true that neither one was fit to occupy
public office.
We leave it to the intelligent votears
of this parish to decide this question
and believing in the honesty and in
tegrity of the American manhood of
our parish we feel satisfied that the
good people of this parish, who are
not moved by personal reasons, bias
or prejudice will agree with us and
vote against both Swords and Thibo
deau.
Below we publish an excerpt
from M. L. Swords' communication,
which appeared in the issue of the
Clarion of date October 21st, 1911,
which is followed by the famous
Thibodeaux poster, which up to
this date, has never been denied by
Mr. Swords:
"The assessment polls of 1895 or
1896 do not disclose the property
owned by my opponent when he
made his appearance on the scene in
1896. If he had no proptery to pro
tect he had some other motive. I
had property and a. motive too.
The motive was, whilst I might not
object to & man's selling his vote,
I greatly cared about being included
in the sale.
"My opponent at that time as
witnesses saith wanted to head a
mob to kill Mr. Thos. H. Lewis, and
the undersigned stayed at Mr.
Lewis' house more than one night,
to if need be, die with his old
friend. My opponent had a right to
take whatever side he pleased and
so had L
"If I were an Indian, I would be
as the murky waters of the Red;
if I were a negro I would be as
black as Cerebus, but as I was
white I had to stand for that race
without fear or, favor. I have
never drawn one drop of blood
for a white man, and I certainly
won't do it for any other race, and
I want the coming generation to
bear that in moid. l
SWORDS IS ANSWERED
BY PAVY AND GARLAND
To the Voters of the Parish of St. Landry:
We have adopted this method of answering Sheriff M. L. Sword
circular letter, issued of date Jan. 15, 1916, wherein he attempts to
draw the attention of the voters of St. Landry away from the real is
sues of the contest for the Sheriff's office between himself and Darius
M. Fontenot.
Mr. Swords complains that the Judge and District Attorney have
seen fit to exercise their rights as citizens ahd electors in the interest
of the candidacy of Darius Fontenot, and that they should publicly
declare their reasons for supporting him and opposing Swords.
In his communication he says: "But I do say it is wrong for them
to descend from their high and dignified positions, take partisan and
bitter part in the Sheriff's fight, simply to destroy a Democrat."
We desire to say that as citizens having an interest in the pub
lie welfare, we have an inalienable right to urge upon our fellow citi
zens the election to the office of Sheriff of that man whom we be
lieve to be the most competent and best fitted by reason of his sobri
ety, honesty and integrity, to fill the duties of that high office.
We are not opposing Swords personally but as an officer. Our
official relations with him have long since convinced us that the
people of this parish have been more considerate of their treat
ment of him than his conduct deserves.
We do not believe that an officer is justified in so lowering the
office to which he has been honored, as to bring it into public ridi
cule and contempt.
When we are confronted with the humiliating sight of our Sheriff
sleeping in public places, going into public hotels and raising a dis
turbance when evidence was being taken in the most important crim
inal ease in the annals of our parish and when we were humiliated
by inquiries from strangers asking how we could maintain in office
a man of such conduct, we decided that we would be untrue to ous
selves, false to the interest of the parish, did we not aid in the elee
tion of a man as Sheriff to whom we could point with pride and
whom we know to be sober, honest and energetic.
As to wheather Sheriff Swords could or could not have succeeded
in defeating us for re-election in 1912, is not a question which now
interests the people of this parish. But when he says that there was
no opposition to us at that time, by reason of his desire for peace,
is a question of fact that we know is not true. He did all in his pow
er to secure opposition to us but those with whom he conferred re
fused to be tempted. No, Sheriff, you may try to fool the people, but
you can't fool all the people.
In conclusion we desire to say that we conceive it a part of our
public and civic duties to do all in our power to further the best inter
est of our parish and in supporting Darius Fontenot for Sheriff, 1 we
know that the interest of the parish will be best subserved and the
office of Sheriff will be filled by a young man who has been tried and
not found wanting and who will dedicate to the duties of that office a
sober, industrious and honest life.
Respectfully submitted,
B. H. PAVY,
R. LEE GARLAND.
- 7f
"I expected to be assassinated ii
this campaign, for I take it that .i
a man will try to assassinate char.
aeter, there would be no eompunc.
tions of conscience to do a man up
My opponent tried, and so did some
of his country friends, to entice m_
jailer to break with me, but F. L
Doucet was too honorable for that
I have it from the best authority
that the gentelman has promiseC
at job to another. Tote fair
n.adlbor, don't promise the same
job, to too many men, 'you mighi
beat nied, 'Vent Dubbs.'
"My opponent might have made a
better trade than,.by giving Coot
Lafleur the Treasurership. He al
ready had Coqn. What inthe worlk
did you ~t loose for, that which you
already had? That is, almost an
bad as Coon's friends beating hi,
out of the Mayor's offie in order tc
show him how they could get the
Treasurership. That's a shell
game.'
"TO THE PUBLIC.
"After reading- the communica
tion by M. L. Swords, appearing in
the 'St. Landry Clarion' of date Oc
tober 21st, 1911, I wrote, and caused
to be delivered to him, the follow
ing:
"Opelousas, La., Oct. 21st, 1911,
"Mr. M, L. Swords, Opelousas, La.
"Dear Sir:
"With reference to your commu
nication appearing in the St. Lan
dry Clarion of even date herewith,
I demand of you a retraction of all
statements therein, directly or in
directly, applicable to me.
Yours truly,
CHARLES THIBODEAUX.
"Having thus given the said
Swords an opportunity to right the
wrong done me, and be having fail
ed to do so, I assert that there is
not the least semblanee of truth in
the statement ,of said M L Swords
that I ever contemplated heading
a mob to kill Hon. T. H. Lewis, and
I hereby denounce the said A L
Swords as a willful slanderer -and
malicious liar.
"CIIARLS THIBODEAUX."
POLITICAL BOSSES.
For the last 20 years this State hna
been engaged every succeeding four
years in heated political campaigns
and almost every time the purported
bosses of the City of New Orleans
have been made an issue of these cam
paigns. When we re'd the speeu,.
made by Sheriff Swords at Washing
ton, and published in the Enterprise
at length, in its issue of Januray 15th,
we are surprised to observe that there
are other self styled political bosses
in the, State. If we are to take as
true the statement made by the Sherif
in his speech, he is even a greater po
litical boss than any of the 17 in the
City of eNw Orelans. This self styled
political Warwick and self constituted
political boss of the Parish of St.
Landry, comes with great gusto in his
speech and says: "Darius Fontenot
did not have time to celebrate his ad
vent into office in 1908 because I put
hinm in too quick. Again in this same
memorable address under the head
ing: Another Chapter of Unwritten
History, he says: "At. Mr. Andres
pont's poll his vote was the only one I
received, and remembering that one
vote, I went out to his father's field
got him in my buggy and told him I
wanted him to run for the Legislature.
He said the candle was not worth the
burning, besides he was not well
enough known. I told him I would
pay his expenses it he would run and
said to him that if I was elected, four
years hence I would undertake to
make him Clerk of Court." He ran
and was elected.
Can any of the so called ward boss
es of New Orleans arrogate to him
self greater political power than this
self constituted political boss of St.
Landry Parish? ,Ewin, Behrman nor
any of the other so called bosses of
the City has ever had the bold temeri
ty. to claim that he is the political
.. . . . i
I Warwick who distributes at his will
and at his pleaseure, the various of
fices which the people have a right
to fill by their own selection. If
Swords is "King Maker" in the poli
tics of St. Landry, then it is high time
that the people should quit wbrrying
r about the election of their officers,
s quit the useless expenditure of public
I money in holding elections and submit
s gracefully to the will of this political
Warwick, Marion L. Swords.
Whom the Gods would destroy they
first make arrogant, and this bit of
arrogance en the part of the Sheriff
foretells the coming of his' Waterloo
bs n Tuesday next.
VOTE FOR D. M. FONTENOT
FORS SHERIFF.
a On next Tuesday the 25th, the
I voters of the Parish of St. Landry will
I be called upon to select their officers
for the ensuing four years. We say
for the next four years because it is
L a foregone conclusion that the Demo
cratic nominee at the Primary to be
t held will unquestionably be elected at
the general election in April. Con
sidering therefore that the nomination
means the election of the one nominat
ed, it behooves the good people of this
SParish, in the exercise of their suf
-frage, to select as their officers for the
ensuing years, the one who measures
`up to the higher standard, both moral
ly and officially.
In the contest for Sheriff there are
I but two candidates, the present raamo -
I bent, M. L. Swords, who has occupied
[1the office for the last Sixteen years,
and Mr. D. M. Fontenot who has been
Assessor of the Parish since 1908. .
The Clarion has selected as its
choice for this office Darius M. Fonte
not. In making this selection we are
prompted by. no other motive than
that of duty as we see it.
Mr. Fontenot is a yuing man just
jin the prime of lIfen Who has been
honored by the people of tb, Parish
ýý : . -:. . ' _ , 'ý '''-it_ :
`4.
A. 1. ANRIIS StilE To I.E
Robert Lafleur and Charles Thitiodeaux
Mt Plrta Wimari
Roet aler: an..Care hb
rst' Primar
Hon.. Edward B. Dubuisson' and ]1
Senator Leon S. Haas at Sunset on', I
Monday, evening complimented A. i
L. Andrus, candidate for assessor'
of St. Landry parish, for the splej n
did and blusiness-like manner in ;
which he conducted the affairs ofl
the tax collector's office, during the I
eight years that Mr. Andrus served
as chief deputy tax collector. " f
Mr. Andrus is not only regarded 1
as the most efficient aspirant for i
the assessor's office by his friends, °
but unprejudierd men like the Honi I
IE. B. Dubuisson, who on a.tmunt of
his close relationship to Rbbert La
tfleur, is opposed to Mr. Andrus, are. 4
r of the opinion thatMr. Aniris
would make a splendid official.
Some political enemies g. Mr.:
Andrus would make the vo.ers ofi1
St. Landry believe that :te h n)hs
semblance of a show in .the: theree- .
t cornered race for assessor, agaiinst l'
I Charles Thibodeaux and R0bett La-Vi
fleur, but the hundreds of support-.
r ers of Mr. Andrus feel .icotdesnt
f that he will lead- thefield by over}
t five hundred votes over his nearestt
Sopponent. .
Despite the fact that ithe- stup-i
porters of Robert L.fleurn : claim
that Eunice will' not cast 25 vote.
against their candidate, Kelly An
drus will leave the western St,
Landry metropolis on the nighti of
I the election next Tuesday with up'4:
f wards of 100 votes. The people o
Eunice know that Mr. And.ei s ja
c unquestionably the bes qualifited J
aspirant for the offiee of St. Land
s they know that he measures he
i and shoulders above either: Ro~
- Lafleur or Charles ThibZ
One of the best features of *. ~
campaign waged by Mr. Andrue ii
that he has never made aas Doeeek
in the entire parish, no aj$ter iW
there were not a sinkle lady ti
audience which would bring u
blush to any lady; he: has :cndue
ed his campaign in a gentema
many and unlike his :twop.
has at no time used one w. r
which a lady could not. hear
Mr. Andrus will win tha mi
"tion, because he is a cl-eIn l
Soian; he will winthe fight bnuse
hie is an honest, upright and SCobr
Iyoung man and bcaue he is tbe
most efficient, the ab-let and t;i
i best candidate seeking tl. ollee Vii
assessor. I
When St. Landry will have
,IAndrus as its assesor er is no
Idisputing the tact that thi pis
will have one of thei f o
best asse- eM, q 4tire
Louisiana. The t .
parish will have- lie. fearJ
in stuch an impotaiit ofi4
ciare of such, au tioak n
fight gentlemnn who"wud ,.
stoop to do the. Itwly n r
beneit himself Iit 4.:*
cially.
Unike _hiso o on Mr.
drus' record is cam, nj; 4
this parish kznow `ld"'
is like an open` bl4 3 rn a
te cannot be at1eaB
tias always leda<le*:
and genxtlemacnly life s
{Whien Mr. Andirps will hveb
elected aasessor.: l - poorest
ti yers of e.Si. JBs .wil
,alae to comet
the au! s h stef
four years' th
Jonet. thy g.mod'' 4aji
A weddink wI u $aý
of uet? s 17 . btUt 4,0 t i@nle
11e -
iIi
;ifluQ28 wai-;m 4 fie
portion of dry ,
60#0", i' f w~
Ar,
