"If you want to build up the Progressive party of this state, if you want to elect Mr. John M. Parker governor, you can not better do it than by showing to the white
manhood of Louisiana that the ward bosses and the saloons are going to dominate the state. Once convince the people of the country that the ward bosses in cohoots
with the so-called leaders in the country, are going to get a grip on the throat of the state, and they will turn on the party with a vengeance.
I AM A DEMOCRAT. I believe the Democratic party today does represent the best interests of the state. I believe that through the Democratic party the best
interests of the state can be served. But I warn you the time has come to put an end to ward bos rule of the Democratic party."
-THO1 . C. BARRET, Anti-Ring Candidate for Democratic Nomination for Governor.
SThe True D emocrat.
VOL. XXIV ST. PRANCISVILLU, WEST PIELICIANA PARISH, LOUISIANA, SATURDAY, JANUARY 22 1010 NO. 6t
BOARD OF ADMINISTRATORS JACKSON ASYLUM
EXONERATE DR. PIERSON OF TIMESPIC. CHARGE
Whereas, at a conference called by
Governor Hall of the nt.l'aier, of the
Board of Administrators of the Mawsmt f
Louisiana Hospitai for the nllaane. held
at Baton Itoulge on Jantuary lith, itn
the iExecutive, t.lce of the QGovernor,
which meeting was attended by all
naemiwrs of the Board, with onet ex.
-eplion, certain charges of Irrcegularl
ties to the management of the I`anlt
Louisiana Hospital for the Insane A ere
discussed, and
Whereas, these chargers atlch. re
lated mostly to minor incidents that
have occurred in the past ten years of
the management of the institution.
were explained to the entire satisfac
lion of the Uovernor and the Board,
and
Whereas, upon the urgent Invitation
of the Board, )r. A. P. Herring of
Baltimore, Maryland. a specialist of
high standing In that State, a repre
sentative of the Rockefeller Foundsa
tion, Chalrman of the State L.unacy
Commission, and rield Alent of the
National Committee on Mental Hy.
ganle, to visit our Institution and to
make a thorough investigation into
the management and conduct of same.
giving us the benefit of his great ex.
perlenee In the work, and
Whereas, fr. Herring did visit our
Institution on two separate and dis
tinct ocsalions and has made a thor
ough Inspection of all of its affairs.
and has submitted a full report, a copy
of whieb reads as follows:
"I have Just completed a second visit
through this InstItution, which has
been thorough in every respect, and
thought that you and your Board might
be Interestd In a brief summary of
the impressions I havegained this time.
"The first and strongest impresslon
of the hospital is the freedom, comfort
and cleanlnelss of the majority of the
patients. There is a Class of patients
who must of necessity be more closely
confined than others; and there is
another class who are destructive and
untidy. Special accommodations must
be had for these two groups. The
small amount of restraint and clusilon
among over sixteen hundred patients
is really remarkable. I am thoroulghly
covinced. after a careful study of
conditions here, that the patients are
kinadly and humanely treated in every
way,both by the doctors and the nurses.
That accidents, injuries and such like
occur is quite likely. as they occur in
every hospital for insane or any other
large Institution, but from a careful
examination of the patients, the num
berof such occurrances is very limited.
I was especially impressed with the
sanitary condition of the wards; the
floors are clean, the beds and bedding
well kept. The lavatories, with cement
doors and walls and modern plumbing
are satisfactory in every respect. The
dormitories in the building for negroes
especially struck me as being free from
odor and clean and neat in ap ranne.
The lackof restraint amongthe lhetrom
Is rather unusual, due to the fact that
a large number of thee pattients are
employed.
The Farm (olony and the building
for the criminal insane, In my humble
Judgment, are Ideal in every respect,
The central kitchen and dining rooms,
the laundry. power plant and store
rooms show every evidence of careful
saage.m nt and onstant vigiltance in
their conduct.
Th RecellDag Wards for the rmecp
tio of new patlents, and the hospital
wards for the siak are tfeatrea whieh
are not found in every tastltotton, and
their presence here nladeate that the
medteal staff is keeping abreast with
the many advances th mental medletne.
I migtht mention many more nlastenes
which Indicate a constant and intel
ligent auperviatson of the affair of this
hospitaltl, tt thee must suffmlce.
Rheenadsendations.
I healtate to make ay sfaugestions
after these two visit, for the reason
that my trtp to your state is for the
Prpoe of makaig a careftul stuedy of
Il the Inatttutiotnls where the
pntfigy sfflited are conlned, atnd to
preasent plan, whioh is broad and
_.o:2mP _r!lY ve nla It scope, and a htich
UF tc ploti1al the Igood of
the inmane, and feableminded of the
entire state.
that are patent to lany oep gina
througlh this llillltlution, and are by no
meanse new or original with ame. You
gentlemen know them; and It is only
for the want of money that they Beave
not been accomplished
irst -Paintingl. plastering and g
eral repairs on the main buildian
stecond--Additional accomlmodatIons
for the neglro patients.
Thlrd-~Additlonal fire ecapes and
installatton of more fre extingulalers.
I would sungest the use of the Pytrene
PIre BxtIlaguiher.
Pourtit-The utehtean of indtstrtee
on the wards, espeeially on the weo
men's side. If practical, the employ
meat of a speclal teacheor on dllirentm
toupatons, whose time would be deo
voted to developing tha ilnduatria e and
rtc'rea.tioU of the patients.
In ·oncuai@on I rant to state that I
ha ýe buen unhampered Is every way
durirng my visit, and that every cour
(te, h.ah b~scn extended to me 1in tudy.
ln,. ,not otly the medical service, but
ite bU siness administration of the
hospital.
I would like to thank you sad your
oard, and your Supertateadest. D)r
Pierson, and the members of the Ho~ /
pltal Staff for the many eourtesies
-etended.
Yours very truly,
(Signed) A. P. HINRIN.
Therefore, Be It resolved that the
Board of Administrators at the Mast
Louistaiana Hospital for the leeane, as
-embled this day at its regular meet
tg,. hereby places Itself on resord as
having full confidence In the manage
meat of the affairs of the Institution,
through It Supertlntendent, Dr. Cli
,nce Plerson, and that the Board ha
At all times beru thorughly Intormtnw
regarding the needs of the Institution
through the monthly rtports made to
it by the Superiuttndenit. )r. Pit rson,
and that these certain needs complain
ed of at dlvers Ilmes would have been
correted long ago had the Hoard
sutflci.nt funds to carry out thesb
Improvements.
He it further resolved, that a copy
of these resolutions be sent to Gov.
ernor Hall and to the press.
,m u n m n em a w a m
"THE TALK OF THE TOWN"
Reymond's Removal
Sale
A Special Offering on
Men's Wearing Apparel
50c Neckwear. 0*. I 9c
$7.50 Raincoats. .... $3.95
$30 Stout Suits...$12.75
$7.50 Edwin Clap$5 .00
$3.50 and $5 Hats.. $1 .95
Free--$250 In Gold--Free
Coupons With Every 50-cent Purchase.
S. I. Reymond Company, Ltd.
BATON ROUGE, LA:
'THOMAS C. FARRFT ENTERS FINAL WEEK OF
CAMPAIIIGN CONFDENT OF DECISIVE VICTORY
New Orleans, Jan. 18 -Th. last lap
of the campaign for the democratic
gubernatorial nomination began Mon
day, with 'rhos. C. Barret beginning a
threenight stand In the city of New
Orleans, where he has six speeches
scheduled, with a side trip into lUvIng
stol parish for an address Tueoday
norning at 11 o'clock. ol. Pleasant
to in Rtapid+ parish for the first of
the week.
'The week ending Saturday night last
was fruitful of political snsatlloan.
The first was the tumbling of the
Time-Picayune from Its perch of
neutrality, maintained sinee the aes.
pallgn began. That newspaper's seer
elate editor, Normian Walker after
visiting five of the larger eities of the
state, came back and wrote for his
newspaper a threeooluma article pre
dieting the nominastion of Pleasut.
The article served to enthuse the
Pleasant adhe ts until It was shows
by the Barret forces that Mr. Waler
has an unbroken string of bur predle
tiona to his credit extendlnl back to
the memorable lottery fight of 180&
in that eleetion he predicted the over
whelming defeat of Foster by MoBLery
but the people smote him with a mas
Jority of 32,161 for Foster agalist Mc
Msery, the lottery candidate The
Times-Picayune was th iterested into
keeping the infamous lottery hi L oauls
ana; today It is Just as deeply i
terested in keeping the Infamous whoi.
by traSe. sine his first article ap
peared. however, Mr. Walker has at
tempted to put the soft-pedal by am
pllaing that Bearrt is muc the better
equipped man for governor. Mr.
Walker also charges that Col. Pleascat
has flagrantly and openly violated and
defied the corrupt pratices act by
spending money lavishly in the piee'
outioa of his campaign, Mr. Waler
admits that the brret reei have
kept within the 84000 limit cad have
steadfastly refused to make asy
promises to office seker-th, the
paper asserts, s responasible for Ugrn
ret's fallure to secure such cc orgaCU
sation as was secured by Pleasant
Mr. Barre's comment is simply that
he will not accept the o*oe it he has
to violate the law In order to attain It.
Another sensation of the past week
came with the furnishing of absolute
proof that the Pleasant forces i North
Louisiana are giving the New Orleans
ring seleetions the doubicorees. The
first evidence came la the shape of a
"stlate" prepared by Col. Fred W. Price
of Ruston, a Pleasant spokesman; this
ticket scratched every man on the
Pleasant-ring ticket who happened to
be irlmated with the Catholic chureh.
Catholics throughout the state are
voicing their just resentment. The
second Incident of like oharacter same
when Lee Immet Thomas of Shree
port, the North Louisiata ohief lies
tenant of Col. Pleasat, sent out letters
urging the nomination of 3d rverett
for secretary of state, notwithstanding
the ring's seletion of Jim Baley for
the Job. Bailey was endorsed by the
ring because it was supposed he had
a stressong personal following which
would be turned over to the head of
the ticket. Pleasant. For lieutenant
governor, Mouton of Lafayette was
chosen, and for the ome reasons; the
Price "ticLket" puts Burke down for the
Job. This sort of double dellIg hasB
very naturally, made the friends of
ailey and Moutont sore, to say nothing
of the frlends of Psrd Calbore. It is
abit r sample of the old-tel politcal
game known as bushwhcckeray-and
no ons eympathlwo with the New
Orleans ring when it gepts aught at li
own polltal goame.
At Jens. LaSalle parIsh, . T. RoMs.
rson, a prominent cltisen, got up In the
Barret meeoting ad announced he was
a colts 0of Col. Pleasat hut that he
held prnebls of more value than
kinfola. and that when Pleasat do
Dared be would veto statewide prokl
bition submtelon sad rafsed to sane
tion the elmination of saloocs arousd
the state university at Baton Rorge
end the Industrial ietitute at LrAt.
,tte. he could not follow Plasnt any
farther. The announcement rested
great enthusiasm among the voters
presmet IalaSle prish l safly i
the Barret column. as are fortyone
others outside the first, seoad eand
third district. Of these parishes it is
preetieally erttaln that Barret wtl
carry several of them. rad the 114adIr
tions for the last wek of the costest
are that Col01. Pleasant will ro farIt
behind othe ring andidates in the
~~ Tceiia iic1ii liiipipe.)igaT
