Tho adaco, "A prophet Is not without honor avo In his own country' docs not apply to Aurora, Mo. The Feature of tho great triumph of Tho
Menace editors over the forces of Romo was tho great ovation tendered them at the depot on their arrival home from JopIIn, told In the Jan. 15
Issuo of the JopIIn Globe and Reproduced In this Issue. Verily, the prayers of the righteous avalleth much. : :- -:- -:- -:-
Crowley's Declaration of Emancipation---an
$
r""J t
f ill a.ii
huro
Tnts i MumDer
icatca my inc. uun raui, icariess Apostle
MAC
I am what I am: and His grace which was
10). C have, by the cracc of God. aban
doned popery to embrace Christianity: I have exchanged the Mass-Book for the Bible: quitting
JLJLJLILJ
the standard of the pope, I have enrolled myself under the banner of Jesus Christ! 46nc am
bition have I, an ambition uninspired by selfish purposethe ambition which nerved Savona
rola to die and made Luther live! aUThc truth snail set 'you free. Jeremiah J. Crarry.
A are-a, Mhiwiri
I wry U. !
3 5G3B33S3636GSG dSSSS6B363B363SB8B3B33B3BcE3cB
signing ana striving ior its amusion. i nave aeai
of the Gentiles, 1 tnank God that, by His prace, v
bestowed upon me was not in vain" (I. Cor. xv:
4
nom
This is in tha tutor of a Pre
liminsrv consideration of The Men
ace trial, for the reason that though
the cm will be rtaded before the
paper reachea the reader, the trial
ia at the prornt writing ia prog
ress and an extruded description
caanot be gives until later.
Tbe.Bnprema and Vital Ixrae
There have been many critical
hours in the bitory of thia Repub
lic, but not until recent yean hat
there been a nation-wide, organised
and systematic attempt to rrplace
the msgnificent free democracy of
our fathers by system that in' his
tory, theory and practice his con
sistently opposed all the distinguish
ing glories of our free Republic
popular sovereignty, freedom of re
ligion, thought, speech, frit and
eusembly, divorce of church and
stale, and popular secular education.
- The present peril is doubly dan
gerous because it is advancing un
der falite pretence, claiming that it
does not represent a hierarchical
power that condemns popular sov
ereignty, freedom of thought and
utterance, divorce of church and
state, and oar public free school
system, in the face of the fact that
the last three popes, the only aw
1 thorilafive and to the subjects of
the papal system, infallible mouth
pieces of the hierarchy, have gone
en record in condemnation of all
these things.
No one can read the encyclicals
or e cathedra and therefore to all
Catholics infallible and . binding
declarations of Topes Tius IV, Leo
XIII, and Piua X in regard to all
these things,' without recognizing
that this war is between two ir
reconcilable theories of government
It is a war for the very life of the
democracy of the fathers and those
great bulwarks of free institutions
against which Rome has waged a
ceaseless war since the days when
she began her merciless extinction
of the God-fearing Albigenses, in
the twelfth century, to the present
hour; a war in which the same in
tolerance and implacable hate have
oftentimes been evinced as marked
the struggle between ancient Rome
and Carthage.
The Menace Trial
The prosecution of Tut Mexach
which opened on Tuesday, January,
11th, in the federal court rooms in
Jo nl in, Misrouri is an event that
will loom large in the prospective
of history, for it is the great open
ing battle in the mighty irrepressi
ble conflict between two world
theories of government that, being
mutually exclusive, cannot exist to
gether. There have been 'several 6harp
skirmishes between the upholders of
the democratic theory of govern
ment and the organized upholders
of the papal theory in recent years
since the Roman Catholics set out
to make America dominantly Cath
olic. But not since the Knights of
Columbus and the American Fed
eration of Catholic Societies began
their attacks on freedom of speech
and press has any battle been wsged
that is comparablo to this deter
mined attempt to crush Tui-Mek-icK.
. Th Stag and the Background
Joplin, Missouri, is a small west
ern city of about forty thousand
souls. Heretofore it has chiefly
been famous aa a great sine mining
center. Henceforth it will have an
other claim to immortality. From
to-day Joplin will be known to his
tory as Alton, Illinois, and Harper's
Ferry are known to history.
) History takes note of crucial
events. Little else appears upon
'lier negatives. What snakes- Mara
thon forever glorious in the world's
jtmnals? What gives enduring in
terest to Salamia, to Thermopylae,
to ' Bunnymede, to Independence
Hall, or to the Alamo? All these
place would have been forgotten or
innocent of interest had it not been
for events of historic importance,
T,he overthrow of the Oriental
hordes, the heroic defense of the
Shaxtan band, the aigning of Magna
Chart, the promulgation of the
Declaration of Independence, the
unforgettable heroism of the little
'.akid who had no messenger of de
B. O.
mm rrm
feat such deeds of daring, mark
ing crucial moments in the story of
nations or the history of civiliza
tions, make indelible impress on the
ages. These are desr to history;
m Joplin from this dsy will live In
story. .
Hand of Esau Voic of Jacob
Who id the prosecutor of The
Menace, and what is the true ani
mus behind the prosecution?
Outwardly and seemingly it is
the United States Government, but
inwardly and truly it ia politico
ecclesiastical Romanism; and be
hind tho United States Govern
ment are the tax-payers of Amer
ica, who have to bear the burden
of this and other costly trials that
have been brought about at the in
stigation of the clericals who arc
striving to substitute the papal for
the democratic system of govern
ment Only because- Rome is in politics;
only because she is organize and
can act as a unit, is it possible for
such sliamcfu) bunions to be im
posed upon the eighty-five million
non-Catholics of America bv the
litis than fifteen million Catholics in
the effort to further abridge the
liberty of the pros and to check
freedom of religious discussion
through employing technicalities
that are in effect a shameful abut
of the obscenity statutes.
On more than one occasion, at
the annual meeting of the Ameri
can Federation of Catholic Socie
ties, resolutions have been passed
demanding . legislation that would
abridgo the right of religious dis
cussion. For years the Catholics,
in their press, in public meetings
and through their organizations,
have been carrying on an aggressive
warfare to destroy The Menace.
The present suit is merely one of
the multitudinous efforts of politico-ecclesiastical
Romanism to de
stroy the most formidable organ ar
rayed against the un-American ag
gressions of political Romanism.
Abuse of th Obscenity Statutes
The so-called obscenity statutes
were passed by our law makers for
tho purpose of preventing the pub
lication of palpably obscene, lewd
and corrupt matter that was being
circulated with tho manifest pur
pose of debasing tho morals of the
people. Many fur-sighted friends
of freedom and statceiiien of breadth
of vision and knowledge of history
opposed the legislation on the
grounds that it would be liable to
no employed as an instrument of
persecution against noble-minded
men and women who were striving
to correct abuses "and expose im
moral and debasing conditions. It
was pointed out that great interests
that might be fattening upon cor
rupt practices, or organizations that
might be engaged in evil practices
which feared the light of day, might
easily seize upon these statutes to
prevent the public from being ac
quainted with the evil facts that
cankerlike were eating into the body
politic.
The present prosecution is a
striking verification of the predic
tions of the wise and noble-minded
statesmen and moralists who feared
that the proposed legislation would
be thus made an instrument of
persecution for the shielding of
those who feared the light.
Clearly, in all cases of this kind,
if the ends of justice and morality
are to be conserved by the courts,
certain elements must be taken into
consideration, aa, for example r the
intent of the lawmakers who framed
the statute ; the character of the de
fendants; the palpable aim and ob
ject of the publishers ; and the gen
eral moral tone or character of the
publication. .
If 6tern moralists, whose passion
is to purify and ennoble society, are
to be made amenable to the statutes
for exposing conditions of white
slavery, for instance, and attempt
ing to protect the defenseless irom
the moral lepers of society ; if high
minded Christian men, whose only
aim. ia to conserve morality ana
preserve free institutions, can be
prosecuted for exposing moral in
iquity and evil and un-American
conditions,' then vice, immorality
and obscenity will flourish a the
bay tree by virtue pf auch abuse of
LIVES
The Roman Catholic Hierarchy and Its Allies in the
Government Service Ingioriously Defeated in
Greatest Legal Battle of the Ages Twelve
Men, Good and True. Give The Menace a Clean
Bill Loyalty to the American Flag Not a Crime
Truth is Mighty and Shall Prevail
At 2:30 o'clock, Friday afternoon, Jan. 14, after eight
hours' deliberation by the Jury, The Menace Publishing
Co., W. F. Phelps, B. M. Phelps, Theodore C Walker and
Marvin Brown were acquitted in the Federal Court at Jop
IIn, Mo on an Indictment Including eight counts charging
a violation of section 211 of the penal code.
The trial consumed the greater portion of four days,
and was one of the most bitterly contested lawsuits ever
witnessed In the nation. ;
The victory was not only glorious but significant. It
defines the rights of the American Press and marks the
beginning of a new era In this country. It was a fight be
tween the American People, standing for democracy and
freedom, against the Roman Catholic Hierarchy, standing
for despotism and human slavery, and the people won. It
marks the beginning of the end of politico-ecclesiastical
rule in the United States.
Tho verdict was rendered just as this Issue of The
Menace was ready for the press. Other facts and com
ments on the trial
DODCXXXXlXlXXjGtXj
the statutes intended to remedy evil
conditions.
Again, if such prosecutions and
persecutions are tolerated, by parity
of reasoning the Bible, together
with a vast number of the noblest
works of genius born of our civili
zation, necessarily comes under the
meaning of these statutes and
should, nay, must, be ruled out
of the mails, unless the courts in de
ference to political Romanism pro
pose to make fish of one and fowl
of the other.
In the case of Anna Iowry, it
was a Catholic who was instru
mental in securing her arret on
tho charge of uttering obweno lan
guage, when she had merely read
the questions which the Roman
Catholic Saint Liguori prescribed
for priests to put to maid and
matron in the confessional. In tho
case of Thomas E. Watson, it was
the American Federation of Cath
olic Societies, according to the
boast of its secretary, which secured
action against the distinguished
southern editor for . publishing
Liguori'e questions, tliough Mr.
Watson took the precaution to pub
lish them in Latin, just as they arc
published and. sent , through the
mails bv the leading .Catholic pub
lishing houses of America. .
So now it is Rome that Boeks to
crush Tub Menace by means of
tho obseenitt statute, because The
Mevacr did .what decent journals
must do if the purity of society is
to be- protected, vis., expose what
appear to be immoral and vice
breeding condition.
Not a Question of Morals
The matter complained of is so
palpably less open to objection on
the ground of obscenity than much
of the uncriticized news matter ap
pearing in the daily press of the
land, that the pretext on which the
prosecution is based ia too absurd
to merit serious consideration.
Moreover,, the Roman Catholics are
circulating constantly through the
mails matter written by one who
during the last century waa honored
by the Roman church both by can
onization and elevation to the de
gree of Doctor of Moral Theology,
which the courtabeld to be grossly
obscene; and this v0 and obscene
matter constitutes the questions
which this greatest of Roman. Cath-
-MENACE
BULLETIN
will appear from time
The Twelve Apostles of liberty
Following L a,U of tho jury who
beard a Mcxacs tt: Frank' Dale,
Sbcldna, Mo.; M. 0. Foster, Nevada,
ItV; J. C. Lane, Crane, Mo.; Kir Man
pin, lAinar, Mo.; Dndlry Biggs, Rocky
Comfort, Mo.; J. C. Browa, Liberal,
Mo.; J. V. Jrnning, Oto, Mo.; C X.
Caldwell, Anderson, Ij.; U. L. Coleman,
Mationville, Mo.; H. T. Maberrv, Mt.
Vernon, Mo.; 'J. . Ilisey, Bronangh,
Mo., and Andy Flaxbeard, Borky Com
fort, Mo.
olic moral theologians prescribed
for bachelor priests to pour into the
eara of. innocent maids and matrons
in tho .privacy of the confessional.
Hence the obscenity statutes have
merely been invoke1 on a technical
ity, in order that, without expense
to the Roman Caljiolics, the Amer
ican tax-payers, ovi r frj per cent of
whom are non-Catholics, might be
burdened in the organized efforts of
clerical Rome ta ir'.crfcre with free
dom of religious discussion. -
What BomVObJecta To
Whit Rome objects to is the pub
licity given to facie connected with
the Urea of vricU and ike moral
teachings endorsed by the church,
which run counter to the moral
standards of American society.
It ia our purpose at later date
to chronicle in an extended way
this most momentous trial which,
no matter what ttie outcome, will
mark the opening conflict in the
most important crit-i in the history
of free institutions since the foun
dation of this .1 'public Either
America will W(ine dominantly
Catholic with 1N papal system in
control, or the C.V holies must ac
cept onco andfor all the American
to time.
39B8B
system of free religious' discussion,
freedom of thought and speech,
freedom of press and assembly, ab-i
solute divorce of church and state
in fact as well as theory, and popu
lar non-sectarian education.
"There Is Scarce a Doubt"
lly a free use of these words,
"there is scarce a doubt," Catholic
priests, bishops and prominent lay
men take glory unto their faith for
mm h that does not of right belong
to it.
Cut holies are claiming our great
literary men, sculptors, painters,
diplomats and others who may re
flect glory upon their time and
calling.
Wc say they are "claiming" them
they have no proof of their al
leged affiliations with Rome. Be
ing shy of really brilliant minds
among ihoie who are known to have
been Catholics, the dignitaries of
the church resort to subterfuge and
seek to steal credit by saying "there
is scarce a doubt" that this or that
person was a Catholic. After death
nas claimed the writer of a classic,
the sculptor of a majestic marble,
or the framer of a constitution, then
some priest or bishop steps forward
and takes the credit to iris church
by mrying "it could not have been
done had not the author or the artist
been a Catholic at heart."
We have in mind now the words
of Rev. Father John Daly who re
cently addressed a gathering of
teachers from public and parochial
schools and nuns from convents at
St Joseph's Academy, Green Bay,
Wis. The subject of his discourse
was "Literature" and several names
were added to the Catholic hall of
fame by the method above men
tioned. Speaking of Shakespeare,
Father Daly said:
"Who studies Shskespeare will
find him rich in Catholic doctrines
and practice. Even if he were not
made of the heroic stuff, which
formed the martyrs, even if he did
hide his belief, there is scarce a
doubt but Shakespeare waa & Cath
olic. '"Even non-Catholic writers are
most aublime when they are most
Catholic"
Tennvson is claimed as one of
whose Catholicity there is scarce a
doubt Ixngfellow is another. Fa
ther Daly stated that no matter
what Longfellf wa creed was la
belled, "his heart was Catholic."
ACQUITTED
HI tOH TILLING I
f ' y I Tat TUTM. I
YCfHONCV V
1 his aiwats (
I rim on ne. , I
aatnkSMrj
A
The Jury Was
The author of "Evangeline" could
not have died other than a Cath
olic, thinks Daly.
Thomas Jefferson obtained the
rules of the Dominicans in Paris,
it was claimed by the priest in his
lengthy presentation of Rome's
claim for literary honor, and "on
them he framed much of our glori
ous American Constitution."
THE VERY INSTRUMENT
WHICH AMERICANS HONOR
AND UPHOLD AS THE GUAR
ANTEE OF LIBERTY, AND
WHICH CATHOLICS MOST
FREQUENTLY VIOLATE AND
INSISTENTLY SEEK TO VITI
ATE. IS CLAIMED TO BE A
PRODUCT OF ROMISH MINDS.
Jefferson should turn in his
grave and rise to deny this base
claim of Daly's if he but knew the
treachery and murderous hate that
has been aroused in Rolnish hearts
by this guarantee of the rights
Rome is seeking to wrest from us.
Rome claims every tiling which
reflects honor and glory upon its
author or builder afterthe records
are lost and. the possibility of re
futation becomes reasonably remote.
Roosevelt, Bryan, and some others
we might mention who are now liv
ing, will be mentioned to the third
generation as "at heart Catholics."
Papal claims and truth do not al
ways coincide. Neither is truth a
credit to the Romish church if we
may judge by the records of her
past and present persons and prac
tices. Hans Schmidt was a Catholic;
Priest Mullen. Priest Denes, Priest
Petrarca and Priest Rivera were also
Catholics not laymen, but priests.
There is enough criminality and im
morality among priests to leave a
black mark that time cannot efface
without delving into the doings of
the laity, of which the murder of
W m. Black is one infamous instance,
LET ROME CLAIM WHAT IS
HERS AND LET THE OTHERS
ALONE!
The arnirition of much real ettate by
any one corporation ia a eerioua matter,
The Roman Catholic corporation with iU
horde of primts and prelate who have
no heira among whom to divide the
weallh, often gained through the blank
will racket, accumulate altogether at a
rate dirroport tonal with the reet of the
eommunitT. All Catholic countries have
eiperienced this. Before the ctringent
tatutes on real etat in England, the
ehnrrh got poexeeaioa of one-third of the
property of England; and according to
Bine ketone, if it hadnt been for these
tatntes the Uooiifh corporation would
have engulfed the whole real eetate of the
ecMiatry 1 When n ehnrrh ia allowed the
right to acquire, bold, and nae property
without taxation, and without limit, eom
fiacatioa miwt finally be reeurted to lot
the sake of the peoplo,
from Missouri
THE MENACECOMES CLEAN ,
ST SIT. TUIO. C, WALKSB . (
Hon. Framls M. Wilson ia his open
ing remarks to the court and jury stating
the ra of ths prosecution ottered these
words:
"Your Honor and gentlemen of the
jury, the protwutioa wiahe it to ba dis
tinctly understood that the government
make bo charge of obscenity or indo-ci-nry
against Thx Masu'B aa a Paper,
or Mr. Crowley's book as a book.'
The court also made the same derlara I
tion, the probable design of which was to
prevent the defense from offering the '
paper aa a whole in justification of it
purpose and character.
Will the papacy now hive the decency
to withdraw it outrageous, immoral and
libelous charge that ?ua Uxmacx ia
filthy, neck-en and Indecent, since the
court baa judicially freed it from the
stain put upon It by a corrupt ehnrrh.
The court confined itself to nerea de
tached sentences torn out of TUB Mix
acb and wrenched from its connection
upon which to base its charge. But a
Missouri jury went below the surface of
worda and found the real purpose for
publicatioa and discharged the defend
ants and cleared tha press from Bomaa
entanglement.
What a spectacle ths papaey has made
of itself ia tha eyes of all ths world.
Prelate, priesta, and papal politicians
covered Tub Mbsacb editors with (lime
and filth, they circulated corrupt and
lying matter by the millions of pages;
they covered ita editor with mud aad
mire no a to create the Impression that
we were debased men. 8o peraiatent were
they that even good men doubted oar
sincerity and questioned our integrity.
Prelates, priests, and corrupt poli
tician, Cathitlie aad non-Catholie, alike,
scrutinized the page of Tub Mekacb for
four year to discover something npoa
which to base their prosecution and at
last found seven specks. But court and
jury brushed the dust and dirt away aad
set Tub Uexac! in the midst of a great
people like a flaming star. Th star Is
too high for even the pope to touch. Th
py glass of the hierarchy had the blood
of the Inquisition and the dust of super
titioa upon it projecting glass, aad
what they saw was their own filth that
distorted their vision.
Ood speak through the conscience of
men and TUB Mbnacb shines with ia-.
creasing refulgence and the editor live
to war the nation, and call patriots to
th colors. 1
Why are men such rare birds at Us
eonfeecionalst taya the Tebltti "Mta
are gallant to ladie on the ear, aad gi
them very courtesy, men expect th sane
themselves from th fair sua at the cob
feeaionala. Let him ia first, or his timid
ity will eaus him to vanish froea th
church before hi tint come to enter th
box." Could the Man in th Moon dis
cover that a Maa ea th Earth had de
livered himself of wh aa edifyinit
thought, he would tear hi hair with his .
hand (if he had any.) and cry out:
O thou Eternal Maker of all being!
Thou whose power and goodnesa vaa en
large the faculties of thy creatures to
thia infinite deTC of excellence and per
fection, what have w Moenites naeK!
iwi x worry ll n in we cnwjr i
l injty our pnesvs i ,
