THE BARRE DAILY TIME
VOL. XIX NO. 26-1.
RARRE, VERMONT, SATURDAY. JANUARY 22, 1910.
PRICK, ONE CKNT.
RANCHER
WAS SLAIN
Bert Akcrs Was Killed by a
Mexican Cattle
Rustler
THUS COMPLICATING
THE SITUATION
Akers Was Seeking to Re
cover Some Stolen
Cattle ' ,
U. S. GETS RELEASE
OF TEUTON CONSULS
El -Paso, Jan. 22. The situation be
' eanie cnmnlieated to-dav when details
of the killing of Bert Akcrs, an Amor
lean rancher from Yalcta, Texas, bo
camo known. Akcrs wai slain by Iter
nado Duran, a Mexican cattle rustler.
in a fight yesterday at San .Lorenzo, a
few miles below the border. His com
minion. Domrlas Downs, escaped. Akers,
J lJ -
Downs and Mexican police officials were
seeking to recover stolen cattle when
Duran and his brother opened fire from
th roof of their bouse. They were
subsequently arrested and claimed they
fired in self defense.
Washington, D. C., Jan. 22. Revela
tions that Mexican bandit leaders in con
vontion assembled decreed death to
Americans in Mexico as well as armed
' opposition to the de facto government
were the outstanding features of the
Mexican situation here to-day. Partici
pants in the agreement are said to have
been Villa, Zapata, Argumcdo, Higinio,
Jguilar and others. The murder of
Americans at Santa Ysabel recently is
believed to have carried out the program
which was made at Cordoba.
SAYS TRAIN WAS BLOWN UP
Ad 23 Passengers Were Killed, Says
One Report.
El Puso, Tex., Jan. 22. Twenty-three
persons were killed'near Pucbla recently
when a passenger train was blown up,
supposedly by Zapata adherents, accord
ing to J. Trumbo, wealthy mine owner
of the state of Oaxaea, Mexico, wno ar
rived here yesterday.
Only one passenger survived, it was
reported. Mr. lrumno said tne train
which was blown up was immediately
ahead of the one on which he was trar-
eling from Mexico City.
"Several volleys were fired into our
train," added Mr. Trumbo, who left with
his wife for Los Angeles last night. With
them was H. C. Tanner of Mexico City,
who is convalescing from a bullet wound
inflicted, he said, by a military officer
when Tanner resented insulting allusions
to the United States.
Mr. Tanner reported typhus fever ram
pant throughout southern and central
Mexico.
The party had only dry tortillas to eat
during the journey and at every stop
officers demanded money. One officer car
ried away Trumbo's coat.
Have Been Held Captive On French War
ship tt Saloniki, Having Been Ar
rested Soon After the Allies
Seized That Port.
Washington, I). C, Jan. 22.-Through
the good offices of the I'nited State,
the German, Austrian, Turkish and Bul-
garian consuls at Saloniki, who have
U-en held under arrest bv the allies on
board a French warship ia the harbor are
to be released.
Charge Kinstein, head of the American
legation at Sofia, has lieen instructed by
cable to surrender, if Ttulgnria insists
upon it, the British . vice consul there
who took refuge in his quarters when
Bulgaria ordered the arrest of enemy
consular officers in retaliation for the
seizure of the consuls at Saloniki.
The consuls were arrested soon after
the military occupation of Saloniki on
the charge that they were communieat-
ng military information to the Bulga
rians outside of the city to direct an at
tack upon the town bv enemy aeroplanes.
The condition of release will be that
the consuls shall not resume their func
tion in Saloniki but must return to tlu-ir
owti countries. Arrangements Blreai'y
have bean made for the return to Tur
key of the Turkish consul by a devious
route which will take him by water to
Franco or Italy, thence by rail to Switz
erland, from which country he can find
his way through Germany and Austria
to Turkey.
The state department's activity in this
case was exercised in pursuance ,of the
duty it assumed at the outbreak of the
war of looking after the interests of the
citizens of most of the warring countries.
It became known late yesterday, after
the announcement that the entente allies
had agreed to release the consuls, that
this action was taken some days ago, and
that Oreat Britain had been notified.
The vice consul fled to the rooms of the
American charge and claimed asylum
upon hearine of the arrest of his French
colleague. He was received temporarily,
and when the Sofia government demand
ed his surrender Mr. Einstein cabled
Washington for instructions.
After due consideration the state de
partment held that unless it could be
shown that the vice consul's life was in
volved in the surrender he could not be
given asylum. Nothing further has been
heard from the case since this decision
was communicated to the authorities
Sofia, and it is thought probable that
the Bulgarian government chose to re
frain from exercising its right pending
the outcome of the state department
efforts to secure relief of the Bulgaria
consul at Salonika, which has now been
successful.
STEAMER PUTS
BACK AFIRE
Norwegian Freighter Sygna
Was Said to Be Car
rying Munitions
LEFT NEW YORK
FOR ARCHANGEL
A Fire Boat Was Sent Out
from New York to
Meet Her
New York, Jan. 22. The Xorwegian
freight steamer Sygna, said to be carry
ing munitions, which left for Archangel
yesterday, .returned early to-day with a
fire in her hold. A fireboat reached her
at quarantine and began fighting the fire.
Norton, Lilly & Co., agents for the
Sygna, stated that the freighter did not
carry any munition. iho cargo was
chiefly steel and railway car parts.
BANDIT STOLE $900
AND KILLED OFFICER
FIRED ON MEXICANS.
SEPARATE PEACE
FOR BELGIUM
Is Said To Be Possible Because Belgium
Did Not Sign the London Agree
ment, According To Ger
man Newspaper, ';
London, Jan. 22. An Amsterdam, dis
patch to the Exchange Telegraph com
pany states that the Frankfurter Zei
tung, in discussing the possibility of sep
arate peace between Germany and Bel
gium, says that as long as Belgium has
not signed the London agreement, she is
free to do as her interests command.
AUSTRIA'S TERMS TOO HARSH.
Who Were Attempting to Cross Into the
United States.
Kl Paso, Texas, Jan. 22. Customs of
ficers to-day opened fire on several Mex
icans attempting to cross the interna
tional border with a large bundle of
rags. The Mexicans fled.
VILLA A BRIDEGROOM.
Is Now on Honeymoon While Carrania's
Gang Are After Him.
Juarez, Mux., Jan. 22. Although sup
posed to be the object of a determined
search bv three Carranza columns sent
out to bring him in, dead or alive, Fran
cisco ilia, the proscribed Mexican chief-
tain, has found time to be married and
has forsaken his cavalry saddle to ride in
a coach with his bride, according to Igna
cio Enriquez, civil governor of the state
of Chihuahua, who arrived here yester
day. At least two women, one now in Cuba
and the other in Los Angeles, are said to
claim Villa as husband, but Enriquez
said he had authentic information that
Villa had tarried at Bachineva, in the
mountains of western Chihuahua, long
enough to wed.
The man who gave this information,
Enriquez said, saw Villa only four days
airo. He confirmed previous reports that
.. Villa was boasting he "would force inter
vention by the United States inside of 30
days." He asserted that Villa had only a
few men with him. Enriquez asserted
that the man who made the report and
40 other Villa followers, had sought
amnesty.
"We have three columns after Villa,"
Enriquez added, "and I expect to hear
any time that he has been killed or
raptured.'
An Explanation Made Why Montenegro
Quit Peace Parley.
London. Jan. 22. The Daily Tele
graph's Milan correspondent gives what
he says is the inside story ot Jlontene
gro's negotiations with Austria regard
ing the capitulation of Montenegro.
"Since the defeat of Serbia," says the
correspondent, "the court party, fearing
a similar fate for Montenegro, had ad
vised King Nicholas to surrender as the
only salvation. The king sent lor Gen
era! Martinovich to defend the ap
proaches to the capital, promising to open
negotiations if defense were futile. The
general was unable to muster more than
1,2IM) men, which 'number was obviously
insufficient.
"King Nicholas then consented to ca
pitulation and began the parley, relying
on the assurances of his advisers that
Austria would treat Montenegro with the
utmost generosity, even to giving con
cessions on the frontier in return for
Mount Lovccn.
"When discussions of the actual terms
were begun, King Nicholas was stunned
bv the harshness of the Austrian de
mands, which reduced Montenegro to a
vassal of Austria. Meantime General
Martinovich, who throughout had been
an opponent to capitulation, retreated to
Scutana, where lie was reinforced by
patriots, tie is now the real leader of
the country."
He Also Wounded Cashier in Chicago
Office of the Thomas A. Cook &
Co. Agency He Was Accom
panied by a Woman.
Chicago, Jan. 22. A bandit accompa
med by a woman yesterday afternoon
robbed the tourist agency of 'Thomas
& Look & Co. of S'.HH), wounded the cash
ier, killed a policeman and escaped.
According to the police the deed was
the most daring of years in this city.
it was accomplished on one of the bus
iest streets of the down town district
at an hour when the thoroughfare was
congested with automobiles and peo
pie.
The woman did not participate in the
actual robbery. She ordered a taxicab
at the Great Northern hotel and John
McCabe of the Fay company responded.
The woman instructed him to drive to
15 East Jackson street, the Cook offices.
There she waited without alighting.
Meanwhile the robber had entered the
offices. The cashier, Ernest L. Walsh,
attempted to reach a revolver, bft was
hot and painfully injured and backed
into a vault with four other employes.
Is. At Johnson, a traffic policeman,
was attracted to the scene bnt found
that the bandit had locked the door
after entering,
PRES. WILSON
AND BRIDE ON
YACHTING TRIP
Will Spend Two Days on Potomac River,
and Meanwhile the President Will
Be Preparing Speeches,
Washington, 1). C, Jan. 22. President
ami Mrs. Wilson were cruising down the
'otomac to-day in the Mayflower, and
they expect to lie away two days. The
president has a mass of data from the
navy and war departments and will lie
engaged In preparing a speech for the
banquet of the Railroad Business asso
ciation in New York on Jan. 27 and in
drafting speeches for bin middle west
trip. The final plans for the trip call for
stops at Pittsburg, Cleveland, Milwaukee,
Chicago, lies Moines, Topeka and Kansas
City.
Cm the middle western trip the presi
dent will leave Washington Jan. 28, re
turning Feb. 4 in time for the judicial
dinner at the White House.
In addition to the formal addresses in
these seven cities the president is expect
ed to speak briefly at several cities and
towns through which his train will pass. J
The national defense plans of the ad
ministration will be his principal topic,
but he probably .will take up other sub
jects, including the European and Mexi
can situations.
OTHER WOUNDS
ON BROWN
DISCUSSED CAUSES OF WAR.
Prof. S. F, Emerson of University of Ver
mont Spoke in Barre.
A scholarly talk on some of the funda
mentals of European history with refer
ence to their effect on the present de
bacle across the water and their Is-aring
on the ultimate issue of the great con
Thev Could Not Havp Ropn mit WH 'v'n y '''of'"""' Samuel v.
alley VUUIU iXUl, IlrtVt. mi.II Km,m f t, i-Ver,.it v of Vermont
Caused Entirely by Fall
on the Sidewalk
SAYS DOCTOR WHO
MADE AUTOPSY
Surprise Sprung To-day in
Trial of Hatch for
Manslaughter
TWO BANQUET FUNCTIONS.
One Last Night Was For Entente Allies
and Neutral Nations Diplomats.
Washington, D, C, Jan. 22. Diplomats
representing the entente allies and 23
neutral nations gathered at the White
House last night for the first of two
formal dinners arranged bv the president
and Mrs. Wilson in honor of members of
the diplomatic corps. The second dinner,
to be given next Tuesday night will be
attended by the ambassador of Germany,
the charuea d affaires of Austria-Hungary
and Turkey, the minister of Bulgaria and
the same neutral diplomats present last
night.
at the first smoker of the winter wider
the auspice of the Vinciti club lust
evening. The occasion brought together
a large assembly of the club members
and their guests, including several mem
bers of the Apollo club of Montpelier, to
whom an invitation had been extended.
To a good many persons whose interest
in the war is naturally confined to the
more tangible issues immediately at
stake, Professor Emerson contributed an
accurate and well-disciplineil discussion
of the profounder phases involved, phase
with which the lay mind is not ordinarily
concerned. The speaker was introduced
by the club president, Henry H. Jackson,
and for more than an hour he held the
closest attention of his auditors. After
the smoke-tnik' there was a substantial
buffet luncheon.
Deep into the underlying causes of the
European struggle Professor Emerson
sank his plummet, taking his audience
bark to history as it is written of Greece
and Rome. It was not merely an aca
demic discussion of the multitudinous
TEACHERS END
CONFERENCE
Prin. Henrff V ackson of
Barre V President
for as Year
St. Johnsburv, Jan. 22 After having es
tablished that Sumner Brown was shot and
that Harlow Hatch was with him at the
the time of shooting, the state produced a
new line of evidence in. Caledonia county
court to-day in the trial of Hatch, causes that wrought so many changes in
charged with manslaughter in the death the collective groups engaged in the war,
of Brown last summer. The testimony but as much an illuminating excursion
was a surprise to the defense. It was to through the development periods of three
the effect that there were wounds on great nations, England. France and Ger-
Brown's face and forehead which, accord- many. The ultimate imperative, as it
ing to Dr. C. F. Dalton of the state lab- existed in the cornus iuris of Borne, as
oratory of hygiene, could not all have it was magnified bv other peoples and
been caused when Brown fell on the side- rts it was embodied in other forms
walk after running out of Hatch's pool- through the centuries, Professor Emcr-
room. - I son described as the fundamental con.
Dr. Dalton presented photographs tnk- ception of justice, the inherent desire for
en of the body and then described the the ideal. Time and countless other
wounds on Brown'a face and forehead, as agencies wrought uiitiumliored changes
well as the bullet wound. on the factor that Pluto was pleased to
Another important witness to-day was I call the irreat ideal. It suffered its irreat-
Charles E. Kirk, the driver of the auto- rat decline in the middle ages, emerged
mobile which carried the men on a trip into the light with the coming of the
to Danville on the afternoon before the rennaissanee and was realized i n varvinsr
The White House state dining room snooting. tvirK testinea timt so tar as measures through the years that preced-
presented a brilliant scene. In addition "e "new the men had not been drinking ed the French revolution.
to the diplomats and their wives the during the day. George Cobb, a Danville The desire to reconstitute the ideal, to
guests included the secretary of state tanner, at wnose place tne car stopped adjust national existence to an im peru
ana Mrs. Lansing, the counsellor for the I0" thp ri,'e during the afternoon of the tive that philosophers felt but somehow
laieiui tiay, lesmieu nine lie oriereu me
men some cider and that neither Hatch
nor Brown partook but that Kirk did.
He testified further that both Hatch and
Brown were noticeably under the influ
ence of liquor when they came to his
place.
SUPT. G. j. SEAGER
EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN
Important Addresses Were
Given at Closing
Session : ;
state department and Mrs. Polk, the as
sistant secretary of state and Mrs, Os
borne, Senators Stone of Missouri and
Sutherland of Utah, and Representatives
Flood of Virginia and Cooper of Wiscon
sin, ranking majority and minority mem
bers of the Senate and House foreign
relations committees with their wives;
and several personal friends of Mr. and
Mrs. Wilson.
Particular interest attached to the din
ner becaqse. it was the first affair of its
kind given, in Washington since the out
break of the European war.
failed to experience was the underlying
cause of the French revolution. Briefly,
1 1 lie speaker rehearsod the influences that
I worked for the great ideal in France, of
Comte's philosophy, and then of the revo
lution s effects m England. Much of
what followed was associated with the
After hearing these three witnesses welding of the German states into a con-
this morning, court took a recess until I federation, oF the spirit of nationalism
Monday, and it is thought that the prose
oftion will rest its case Monday after
noon. .
NORTHERN VERMONT INTERESTED
HOTEL MAN DEAD,
WIFE WOUNDED,
that followed the subjugation of Napo
leon. Professor Emerson laid special
stress on the influence of TIegel and his
idealistic philosophy aod then of the era
of pessimism, which is ineffably linked
in history with the teachings and rea
eonings ot Schopenhaur, I here were
The Washington County Teachers' as
sociation closed its two days' conference
at the Montpelier high school at noon
to-day, having elected the following of
ficers.
President Principal Henry II. Jack
son, llurre.
Vice-president Miss Florence Kathern.
Northlield.
Secretary Mrs. Annie Snyder, Barre.
Treasurer Principal Edward S. Ab
bott, Montpelier.
Executive committee Superintendent)
George J. Seager, Barre Town; Superin
tendent Norman Frost, Waterhury; Mis
Jennie C. AUingham, Montpelier sem
inary. The officers, were presented by a nom
inating committee composed of Superin
tendent J. W. Butterficld of North Mont-
pelier, Miss Myra Bagley of Barre, and
Mrs. Houston of Wuterbury.
The report of the treasurer showed a
balance, of $78 in the treasury. ' Tim
meeting next year will probably lie held
in Barre, in accordance with a plan to
hold the conferences alternately in Barre
and Montpelier.
Following the business meeting this
morning, addresses were made by James .
L. McConaughty, professor1 of education,
Dartmouth college, and by Will S. Mon
roe, professor of physehology and peda
gogy, State Normal school Montclair,
N. J. The former took as his theme,
"Habit and Memory in the Schoolroom."
and Professor Monroe spoke on "Th
lYoblcm of Educational Values."
The session this forenoon was opened,
with music by the Montpelier grammar
school chorus, tinder the direction of Miss
Jennie M. Wheeler. Kindergarten pupils,
under the direction of Miss Edith Blanch-
years of despair for Germany and a real "d, Kave a folk dance between the ad-
In Proposal for Developing Power On the
Connecticut River.
Littleton, N. II., Jan. 22. Littleton's
dream of a power development of stu-
rieiiilous nrorairtiona on the Connecticut
Johnson was trying to rirer along the famous Fifteen-Mile falls,
force an entrance when the robber sud
dtnly threw it open and fired a bullet
into the officer s heart.
He scattered the throng on the side-
walked and leaped toward the taxicab.
Pointing his weapon toward McCabe the
robber ordered him to drive away but
McCabe jumped. The bandit hesitated
a second and j hen sped up an alley. The
which has. been cherished for the past
six years, teems to be approaching realization.
liiLAU&i J JdALjUUo I national feeling that did not assert itself
until the blood and iron teachings began
to pave the way for German military
aspirations, the subordination of more
worthy ideals, and the doctrine that na
tional necessity takes precedence over
everything else.
The complete collapse of Hegel's influ
Edward Greenwood Shot His Wife at
Kittery, Me, This Morning, But
She is Likely to Recover. -
dresses made by the visiting professors.
Many of the teachers left for their
homes on the noon train, the session fin
ishing in time so that those living in
Northficld, Roxbury and other point
south left on the 12:18 train.
The teachers joined last evening in ait
informal reception held at 7:30 o'clock
in the auditorium. J he reception was
brief and answered its purpose of mak
ing the members of the association bet
ter acquainted.
At s oclok an entertainment was giv
en, the program being made up of musi
cal selections by the Cleaves orchestra,
Portsmouth, N. II., Jan. 22. Edward
Greenwood, proprietor of the Piscataquis ences and the ascendency of the blood
hotel at Kittery, died to-day from a land iron ideal turned on the German sue
Five years ago a syndicate of financiers I bullet w hich he fired into his head after cesses in 1870. the year of the momor
secured control of the charter for such a seriously wounding his wife early this able march to Paris and the overthrow
leveiopment, which naa been Held for a mormntr. His wife claims that Green- of France. In the present war. then, the
nupioer oi years by several Littleton wood entered her room and after a quar- speaker sees the outcropping once again
business man. The syndicate organized re! fired twice at her. I of the aire-old desire for hist ice. the ln-
what is known as the Connecticut River Tim al,nf,'nr lnv ,1,ioa aWHr b. I n;bl lnncintr nf iwnnli.. tnr a rcr I vocs lists and reading's. Those who par
woman followed. She gazed for a mo- Transmission comnanv. and the eomnanv fr l nVWU- Tl, hull., : n.-i,;,.h roulimtinn f tha m-ct n-l.ini, vt. ticinated in makinsr the entertainment
hi ni lip im UI vne uchu policeman nas a read V secured the neeessarv (low- ..,vl firoA at ,i.lf ,,i-.,t
ana, accoroing to witnesses, seemca ace rurhts at irreat expense. Work un- M of !, b.nd nmt npnefrat,
about to faint, but recovered and disup- til now has not been pressed, as the hrin. Mrs Greenwood iweiven1
peared in the crowd. McCabe was inter- company has all its men working on the let in tl riihfc cheek- which went, nn- the disciples of the Bismar.-kian doctrine orchestra; the quartet was composed of
,ii,-H ut-iiiiit? inr:iri awMtwio; ..ujbs
Kleanor I . Sands, contralto; William J.
Fisher, tenor, and Frederic Edwards,
baritone.- The readers were Herman D.
Hopkins and Miss Florence S, Hinklcy
and Eouis J. Hathaway acted as accom
panist in the solos.
ihich Green- realization of the great ideal which Plato neipaieu in maning tne entenammerii;
ed the right taught, of a human freedom that is not enjoyable were members of the Cleaves
letrated the restrained by despotism, its metes and family, Dr. K. L. and Mrs. Cleaves, Paul
?ived a bul- bounds unmarked bv autocratic fiats of L- aml K- Foster Cleaves, comprising an
viewed at police headquarters and al- development plant on the Deerlield riv- w,rd but did not penetrate the brain, of blood and iron.
lowed to return to work. The
were satisfied of his innocence,
police
AVALANCHE HIT
TRAIN IN WEST
Two Cars Swept Off Track and Down an(1 Jt '8 ""urned that the present plan
Embankment All Occupants Killed
or Injured.
er in the Berkshire. The company is Jealousy is said to have been the mo-
cuiuroiiKu uy inaae at uarrmmn com- I five
I pany of yew ork and JJoston, but it is
regarded as quiie probable that Stone A
Webster of Boston, who own rights at
Monroe, are interested in the project.
the plan as originally contemplated.
involved an expenditure of $tl,0(0,000,
"GROUP B" AIDED LINCOLN.
SWANTON DEPRIVED
OF ITS WATER
Secret Service Agents Sure German Spy
Is Still in New York.
New lork, Jan. 22. Federal secret
is substantially the same as formerly ,wrvice Pents received information yes
proposed. Three dams were tn be hull fterday which convinced them that Igna-
the first and biggest of which will be 160 tius T- I''"00'11, self-confessed Gorman
feet high, which is claimed to be hisher "P? Rnd f"rm'r member of the British
Seattle, Jan. 22. A train on the Great than any other dam in the country. This Hou9e of Commons, was aided in his es-
Northern railroad known as the Cascada would be across the river at Monroe, where cap from a d,'Puty United States mar
Limited, from Spokane, was struck by a there is a natural gorge for the founda- 8,1b1 ,Rst Saturday bv "droiip B," a pow-
snow slide near the Corsa station on the t inn of a big dam that would cost in the e 1 orK"n,l:atIon ot European political
Break In Main Where Pipe Crosses the
Missisquoi River Caused Shutdown
of Schools and Robin Hood
Plant '
Swanton, Jan. 22. This village has
been without water since early yester
day morning on account of a break in the
main where the pipe crosses the Mis-
IN MEMORY OF MR. SENTER.
AMERICANS GOOD FIGHTERS
Says
BRITISH SUBMARINE ACTIVE.
Sank Austria Hydro-Aeroplane and Tor
pedo Boat. '
London. Jan. 22. A dispatch to the
Exchange Telegraph company from
Rome says a British submarine has sunk,
in the upper Adriatic, an Austrian hydro-aeroplane
and also an Austrian tor
pedo boat which went to the rescue,
taking the cr?w of both craft prisoners.
COLD WAVE SWEEPING EAST.
Chkairo, Jan. 22. A cold wave,
said to be sweeping eastward, was
held out to-day a brinpine hop
of relief from flood conditions in
northern Illinois. Thoiian.J of
perwis hare bin made hom-le.
a French Officer Many Earn the
French War Cross.
Paris, Jan. 22. "Americans in the for
eign legion of the French army have tak
en part in some of the roughest fighting
of the war, says an officer who has been
in a position to watch their work from
the beginning, but who declares that the
Americans must understand that there
are military regulations and that they
must remain anonymous.
The Americans have distinguished
themselves on many occasions, earning
in one case an officer s strije, in another
the cross of the Legion of Honor, and
many have earned the war cross.
"The annihilation of the foreign legion
has been announced at different times,"
the officer said. "At an impressive re
view, however, which has just taken place
at the front, the. Americans and other
youna volunteer presented the same sol
dierly bearing on parade as in action.
I he men of the foreign leirion were in
all of the biir fk'hts of the r mnA it
was me foreign lepion that eprsnu- to
assault the German lines at Somite in
May. carrying the entire first line at a
ingle bound. Their Iosmh were heavy,
as are always the of the brave: no
danger ever stoppe.1 them. So far were
they from beinjr annihilated that they
reiw-ated the exploit dunns the Iwttle of
ttampafme in September, and in that
battle they went as far as the (.emian
eeond po;tion and remain.-! there hanir-
inc on to the rrg.-d e.!- of the enemr"
d-f.-ne for several day nrvl'-r errm-n
difficult k- an d-j-rate runt-r at-i
ta.ko.-
est slope of the Cascades near Summit vicinity of .$2,000,000.
early to-day. Iho train whs standing
still when it was hit.
The dining car and a day coach re
ceived the full force of the avalanche
nd were carried down the embankment.
Ail the persons in the two cars were
killed or injured, according to report.
Physicians have been sent from Everett.
The dining car was burned.
Two negro porters and the trainmen
are reported to have been killed. Cries
for help from the cars in the gulch could
be heard from the track above.
refugees. The government agents were 8loi ""iver. There was no school yes
The Washington County Bar Association
Takes Action.
A special meeting of the Washington
County Bar association was held at the
county courthouse in Montpelier this
forenoon to take action on the death of
John H. Senter, ne of the prominent
U-BOATS STILL ACTIVE.
Italian Steamship Reports Having Seen tion as it will mean more than can be
I -i.:js..j t .- i i i.r, llpri iit- Ami the nlttnt of the Kohin Hood I members of the Vermont bar. A com-
The aeeonil riam u-a in K lni f 1 also wausoeu tuai. unicorn lias not l 'll - ' - - i . . .
J lie on( dam was to be 100 feet Ammunition company was obliged to shut mittee consisting of W. A. Lord, S. Hob
biizh and stretch across the river t . ''"" i or viiy. i i . e
terford while the third was to h. Vm feef K"P . he organisation which the aown- " y 06 wverai uays Deiore lister .incKson anu i. r. nancy was
l&iTtti? FiK-S -alVnts believe arranged Lincoln's the break can be repaired. 0
falls near North Littleton, thus giving fsaPe 18 "7 Wing hmi, is a TTeTnuIt K M Hnn"ey and L C
the company the benefit of the head of wh,rh wa formed tn,s "try TWO CLUBS UNITE. :V 1 ,l,pr,n"lt fl- Hey j and U L.
nearly 4fio feet fa... This would u2 - 1872. Group B came prominently into . . Y
lish three separate power plants. public notice some years ago, when it Vermont Bird and Botanical Societies -VrS Sunday artcrnoon at
knivt istr;voi8ter.n;ri,irenadty elwi sssi . rri;7t
projecting a scheme to rai tlJ , lower 'b'manded by the Bussian government on Rutland, Jan. 22.-A resolution which funeral of Mr. Senter, winch will be held
Connecticut lake 17 feet to afford a ZZ the ground that he was a murderer, consolidates the Vermont Botanical and - nt,v courthouse at 2 o'clock,
larger storage capacity Pouren had attempted to start a revolu- Bird clubs to transact business as one President George . Wing was re-
The northern part 'of New Tra,n.l,;, tion tho Bftltic provinces of Russia, club and permits use of their monies quested to prepare a sketch of Mr. Sen-
and Vermont will watch wUh I Colonel Roosevelt was then in the White jointly to issue a large bulletin or to n(l present it at the meeting of the
dou intere.t the r.lan. House, and Group B succeeded in secur. bear the exepse of research work, yet association on the first dy of the March
ling an oraer trom mm ior rourcn s provides a way to dissolve the union ifl1"'"
Evidences of Submarines.
New York, Jan. 22. Evidences of re
cent submarine activity in the Mediter
ranean was given by officers of the Ital
ian steamship Aeginia d Italia, which
arrived yesterday trom Genoa, mid Na
pies. On .January o. while off the Cor
sican coast, they picket! up
immediately comprehended to this whole
region. I Here is no doubt that the pro
moters plan i sell their power as far
north as Groveton anu that Lisbon. St.
.fohnsbury, Vt., Montpelier, and other
towns in this vicinity will ue a good
percentage ot tne total volume produced.
release.
BURIAL AT CATHOLIC CEMETERY
Funeral of Francis Bisson was Held at
At St. Sylvester's Church.
Funeral services for Francis Philip Bis-
me scoeme coiuempiaies the develop- son, aged 71, who (lied at his home
tney picked up wireless nient of some 5.0(10 horsepower. If anr Oranpe Thursday afternoon after a tin
cans trom a rrencn steamer, which was considerable part of his is used in Lit- gering illness, were held in St. Sylves
r"w" J PuoiiiMrine i ne pur- tleton it will mean an industrial bw.ni tor s church this morning at ft o'clock.
increase Littletons valuation the parish priest. Kov. Joseph Turcot.
tied vessel was thought to have been
2." miles astern of the Kegina. No in
dication of the name of the French ship
was given.
Three davs later the Italian steamer
received a radio message warning her of
submarine. Tins meanage was sent
from a vessel which did not disclose
its identity or nationalitv.
Dr. 15. W. Mendelssohn of Iji Junta.
Col., Dr. C. E. Bu k of Chicago, Perry
Akain and Karl A-kain, who were mem-
beis of the Ameri,-an sanitary commis
sion in Serbia, were among the arrivals.
They said the work of the commisnie.il
was about lini-hel. the typhua having
been put under control when they left.
NOT AUSTRIAN SUBMARINE.
Which Sank the Persia, So Austria Be
ports to PenSeJd.
Vienna, -Ian. 22. The f-oivmment has
informed Frcderi, k I". Penl'.fJJ, I niteii
States anihaesador. that no An-tni li.m
janan submarine a corn-erned in the
that will
and population in a most remarkable officiating. The bearers were four sons
way. The development will probably re- of the deceased: Philio Bisson of
quire several years to complete and al- Orange, Henry and Eugene Bisson of
ready men are at work drawing plans East Barre. and Etisebe Bisson of W ind.
and making arraneeiuents for the com- sor Mill., P. O. Interment was made
ing of the large force of dam builders, in the Catholic cemeterv on IWLW
.eariy rnjrineers nave Deen employed street
to mam oui ne territory.
JUDGE FISH A GUEST.
At "Gentlemen's Night" of Bradford's
Fortnightly Clue.
Bradford. Jan. 22. The Fortnightly
i tub held it annual "gentlemen night"
la.t evenine in the parlors of the I on-er.-gstional
church. The program was i
arrarired by Jim. Mary El'en tenant
ami the hanquet br Mr. Planrhe M.
MerrilL
Hun. Frank I. FiH of -eenne.
pi.Ve of the aupetior urt. am guct of
honor, and H'iv,reJ an a.!re.
Musie waa iurni-l.-. tr Mr. W. S.
(.!e and .Mr. aad Mrs. 'V. K. lTi.
ii.kin? of C-e PcmniiU and (hi.nUl I Al;t I2" from lradfrJ and Nraburr.
Lne teamr 1'ers.a, ai.J P:eriactt '. H, er prewnt.
WENT ON THIN ICE.
Oakley Baker Drowned in 20 Feet of
Water at Penacook, N. H.
IVnscook. X. H Jan. 22. Oakley Ba
ker, sped H year, son of Mr. and" Mrs.
Joseph Jtaker. who attends the (hurl,
street achoxd. w andered do n to the
hank of the ( ontoocook river, after rat
dinner veaterda), ventured out on thin
tee. br"ke through and drowned in 20
prov
it should become the wish of members
later, was adopted yesterday at the an
nual meeting of the clubs at the' Hotel
Bardwell here. This resolution was sug
gested by Dr. Ezra Brainerd of Middle
bury, president, of the ltot an real club, who
was some time ago appointed chairman
of a committee to look into the advisa
bility of permanent consideration.
Miss Nellie F. Flynn of Burlington,
treasurer for the joint clubs, yesterday
gave a report showing that all expenses
of the year were paid. There is a bal
ance of $1-10 in the life niemlxrhip fund!
of the Itotanical department ami $.10 in
the Jlird department.
'
presented on the same day.
SUES FOR FIRE INSURANCE.
Rutland Woman Brings Action Against
Vermont Mutual Co.
Rutland, Jan. 22. Paiers have been
served on Jamew T. Sahin. secretary of
the Vermont Mutual Fire Insurance Co,
with beadipiartcra in Montpelier. in a
suit instituted ai;int the company by
Mrs. Mary I Brown of this city, for
merlr a resident of Mendon, in which
the plaintiff seek to recover 2.'l on
a fire iiiMiran- policy i"-uel eef
month ag"i
TOOK FINAL VOWS.
Sister Mary Bisson and Sister Beatrice
Allen Consecrated.
Burlington. Jan. 22. The chapel of
the Fanny Allen hospital was crowded
to its utmost capacity yesterday morn
ing at 8 o'clock with friends and rela
tives eager to witness the beautiful cer-
emony of religious profession and re
ception of habit. Sister Mary Bisson
of East Barre ami Sister Beatrice Allen
of Burlington pronounced thr final
vows, while Sister Susan Carroll of Jer
icho received the religious habit. The
Kt. Rev. J. J. Rice, bishop of Burling
ton, was the celebrant, assisted by the
Rev. J. F. Gilli. V. G.. and the Rev.
Fathers Alliot and Guttin, S. s. E of
St. Michael's college. Present also in the
sanctuary were the Rev. J. I. Shannon
of Bellows Falls, the Rev. J. D. McGar-
jry of Winooski, the Rev. Father Turcot
ot t.ramteviJie, the llev. J. 15. Pouliot of
Esex. the K--v. .1. A. I-aeoutiire of St.
.foe!h'a church, Burlington and the Fev.
W. H. t assidy of the cathedral. An im-
I'presshe and eloquent sermon de
livered bv the Pev. ttn-r Gilli. who
feet of water.
Nrhoolmate gave the aUrm and upoti
arrival, V?. fr E. J. Mct.irr qui. kly r
covered the body. The pnlmotor
pr-iired and Medical Referee I haunr
Adam an-l rtr Roue and Ah an-j !ro n I.oe and lain, last l ot Mr. ate of the Fanny AlVn hnsj,
.Ier "mke-l over t)r bo.Jj- ff t U.nr Pmslin utd m?ke no ttatnoebt one ing -ied and are reiritereJ
fcut were unm-ceful in rcntorus$ bl.
It wa known t.iat Stat.-' Attorney jrj lin.-.i the advantage, the happine,
Poiilm haa N-en investigating t'e ca- jand t- e duties of reliciou life in a ma
for several day, also that there arejterly manner. The altar d.-rorated
some alleged suspicion circumstance injvith cut fier. palm and lights. S'S
f.nne tin with the Kumin? of ti.e t. r !-,-on and Sister Carroll are i-nitn.
tl train
nirea (
ay or the other.
tbe Wrnaotit state W-arX
