Mt Cuimrnn Herald
KLAMATH FALLS'
OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER
KLAMATH COUNTY'S
OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER
Truth Vcnr N. V'9",
KLAMATH FALLS, OREGON, SATURDAY, JANUARY 22, 1916
I'ricc, Five Cent
PASSENGER CARS WRECKED BY SNOW
ro Cars Carried
to Gulch; Many
Believed Killed
I n lot I'lv snlie
ui s i ( nr.it. Vnii., Jmm. aa. -a ! ivmiii r uiKumit- ii-
IMo ill r.iir,i. ili .immill of Hie Caw-ilc. lliriv whIh of i Grral
Xonlinn p-i-mmuit ii-tthi wiTf ! l-1 III fcUty frt-i "f thU iiMiniliiK.
Tun uf ilic r " "'I" r,il" "M "''",' ,MI" ''"' M'',' ,K"I,,H' " '"
irpotml,
Tlir iMTUr Ml Alpine Mlrr that a mciiiiI iiu.IiiikIic IiIi Hie miln.
I irntt Mlir Rial Hie iw nwclit -r eH '-MO feel ilmm 11"' MM
.(!. N ilrinlU lime ei leeii received.
il
Wilson for Tammany?
VWVWWWWMWWWWWWWWMMM
I'nlted I'rom Hervlco !
I.KAVKN WORTH. Wash., Ju. 22 ASTORIA l. Till: GRASP
The numltrr killed In the imow.lldo ' AjMXTY.MII.Ii
ai CorcK l intimated nl from rive to
treaty " " ; ', " , J.
,. .. ,......t .i... In Oim AHIUIUA, WM-,
CjBSKV I
'aafli't.H
Kr at4
KSP" :
2i20avy
LIISITANIA CASE I tM ?uatn wnmnn VILLA SAYS HE
AND OTHERS ARE Being Tried for Murder
NEAR SETTLEMENT
KNOWS
NOTHING
ihitici'ltiek .i.i. .m:i:m to hi:
METTLED
I (mil .Solo of .! inuii) IU'KnllnK
l,ii-ltiiiilii Mil) Vol Hi Culirel) Mm.
Nfm lory, lltit I Ik- IHDU ullics Arc
t
Not Hclletetl lo He loo Great for
solution .Anxtrln lleporletl Mnk-'
Inu l'iiMMtnlit in Herlw 1
WASHINGTON. I) C. Jan. 22.
The Lusltanln, Ancoua nnd Persia!
case Hccm on tho crgc of settlement. I
There arc somo matters yet to be def-
Inltoly scttlod, but these dimcuiues
nrc not considered Insurmountable.
GALE fchJaBaam-k'ISl'' liV nnlclnlH have hinted that there Is a
possibility of Inquiring further Into
ini.ln'n (lltatkvntsnl rt fftiA nlntflnir f1
nilOU ill a uiouiunm W J BBMMO W
This it be Named Postniavior of New York 'the Persia. The ovldcnce on which
Mil ucniai is uasea may uo requniw,
Tho nnnoiincenivnt from Washing-! Unofficial forecasts are that the
Joe Jolinwin
J .111 22
HUTU WITC JUUH1.-VH l"ll .,, .
-nuking tar. which Ih burled lu uw.cH "truck today by to mo,
1 .... f 11,. ul.l Tlil rannut b "M'leie Storm or Hie hchhuii. , 1 iiv - 1 uuuji.i .w.v--.o ,. ..
bottom of I ie '' ";" """" . r,(.,i Mxtmllo'.veloclty. nndlto that 1'rtsldont Wllnon had select, llnnl r.erman note on the LuslUnla
!.wch '.". l.'" I.. T... Z. mil,,m,,y LullHlnH cni uUroofd ,. .,. ... ,ollE ft friend of. and may ..rove unsatisfactory for tho time
1:1111 iiirtlviid
nliu inrrii'il owr tho embaakmont.
Ilejcncr am working bard to aavo liiilluii,
Hie itoili Imprlsonctl In those curs.
"Fnns.1
11 i.v Hrf..rnfwiti nt 2 !tn. Ihn In
IV ,.l..... ....,.. ...-... ... ..-- ( .1U.IU.. - - -
fit!.. ii.ii..r u.'nK tifiutnil nff the i.ii.t.if..ii niiiM u'lui uro looklna for
truck by tho force of tln snow slide. ,wnrd to the days of "Unlit rah! at-
It did lint k down the milch, bow- .boy," and "w hat time docs tho game
i-vr, aii did tlieolhor two cars. mtrt?" will Klcr nt the Athlotlc
llic train was standing bear lbo'imvllloii for the pur-ioso of forming n
it.trnmi- to llorMbo tunnel when lirmolmll organization Kveryono Is
the nIIiI Mme Abend of the train ut'lciim.'. and tlioxo who nro Interest
workmen vwrt- cloarliiK away the ,., hIioiiM lend their attendnnco and
nuil, miou and rock which bud uc- ,t.nriy support to any movement that
cisniulntfil from u slide shortly be- would tend to put this city's team on
(ore. ,1111- map.
A sNclal iruln, currying a hundred
workmen, waa rushed to Corca from amIHI f Munler
I re to assist In tho rescue work., . -
i-.i.- - .1.1 1 it Jou llrown. nn Indian accused of,
took more than an hour to locate the """"-J " murUor for tb , killing
i.. cars In the gulchv ' ':' '"" ,or nU '.
- !LI "t0 Klamath reservation last sum-
ixiiiviiiVam and (xmi-oii- ;' ,,,nrl;t,1 ovfr ,l ,tm f,m,H
ATIOX8 AHR INDICTKI) acqiiltll by a jury In the fed-
oral court at Portland ufler dellbera-
WA8HIN0TON, I). C, Jan. 22. "'' of two and a half hours
Attornii) (Icneral (Iregory baa ad-
Vlnpil Hi., Imiian liutlolarv mmmllliui '.Mi nil lilxsieN."
that tho Kovornmonl has Indicted aov-' Klght moro now Ford cars wero re-1
cnty-tlirce persons and four corpora-. ct-lvcd yesterday by aeorgo Ulehn, the
lions In connection with bomb plots. IKUnuth county agont. I
Siemens Sees Renewal of
Interest by Portlanders
1
Portland seems to bo iiwakonlng to.Htrahorn inudc In Klamath Falls,
llio fact that the Klamath country Is
f no small Importance, commercial
ly. In Oregon, and that If Portland
visiles lo secure tho volumo of trade
RolnR from this city to southern
I'oliits, It must make an effort for bet
tor rallrond connections, This Is tho
"Uburviinco of J. w. fllomons, preal
(ont of the Commercial Club, who,
with I'ollco Judge Leavltt, returned
lust night from attoudanco nt tho
Moral district court.
"Portland business men realise
that thoy have made a grave mistake
in neglecting this territory, feeling
1 tmt it wu compelled to trade
through Portland because It was a
Part of tho state, Computing the
"mount of money spent by Klamath
vuuiy m uaiirornla cities for gooes' 1 no noignuornooa 01 si.uuu . nuuui,
that could be purchased lu Portland, 1 All of this U being paid out of hie
Nioy are at Inat awakening, nnd they I own pocket, so It is easy to see that
Will rf. .1. . . .. , ... i -1 1.. I-.1-....I..1 l kl. !-
.... uu lueir utmost tor me success
( the Oregon, California and Bast
"n railway.
"The splendid Impression that Mr,
one of the rlfiht or left bowcrB of
Charles F Murphy, bos of Tammany
Mali, for uostinnster in Now York, has
broiiKbt about n storm. Tho prosl-i
iioiiir. This rivp no assurances re
KtihJInK the safety "SI uonombatanU
on freighters as well as liners.
Hut officialdom is certain that the
.......a.. .. ...Ill l.n nmlftattli' anllllul In n
--- -" -" , .1 1 IHlll"-l lll U WIHH.I.HIJ nn.w .m
iient s cimi service roiurm tnvuu- '"ivory short tlmo
New York bcllcvo ho Is making this
appointment lo placato Tammany for
the coming nutlonnl convention. John
son has hold Huvcral olllccs In tho city
Koxornmont, all of which ho obtnlncd
bccauHi. of his lo)alty to Murphy
United Pross Service
HOME, Jan 22. An Athens dis
patch snys Austria has made fresh
peace offers to Serbia, following the
fnlluro of the Montenegrin negotia-
tlOIIH
STRAHORN PARTY llfflEn m
NOW ON SURVEY; FOR PORTLAND
ggggBtiHCiQHtiHggBgBB
gBHIHHiniRvngggA
ggKlnglLggggigHnfP
ggggggPl JPl?ggr
ggglHnwKBsv
nBB!g8ESwpP?P:';kngnt5kW
ggfiKiBKv''-'" AfS&EBm.
ggggIPPC. '.'' IffWil'iSgggfM
HE?iav,H' wW'SP'ggnV
BhIk: Lg&,
ggPffPi" elPHHgLW
ggBnMkrv lst5sPgk
' ggBifw'?l.gHi
i ggglVt.rjisSggSlI
InWMl. ' i
unit V I.I7.TtRTH F. MDHH
OF MASSACRES
1U:I1KI, CAl-LS IT A CARRANZA
.iCHEMK
1'iinii III" 'itoiintuiti Helrt-ut, Vllht
;is the .Murder of Americans Waa
it Plan to Put Him In Mf-faror With
the United Stnte America Handi
er Killed by Mc-icnns Yesterday
Afternoon.
I'nited i'ress Service
KL PASO. Tex., Jan. 22. Villa,
'through Major Prleta, a staff officer,
has sent a message to America, say
ing that Villa was not responsible for
the Santa Ysabel massacre of Amer
icans. He says he did not know of
the massacre until after it occurred.
The murder, Villa says, was a plot
of Carranza's to bring Villa Into dis
favor with the United States. Villa
says steps have been taken for the
punishment of the murderers, no
'matter whose followers they are.
Mexican cattle thieves murdered
W9Tu7. ". L-wV Wm Rllrnhnth P. ItIap Atrari nn.AmArtPflll mtlllP flVA
ThIS 18 DOIieVCU 10 uc wiu luteal. iuuiuaui,ii uinu .-. ..-- - . , ... ....-, ...... ...
Mohr, who Is on trial at Providence, with two negroes, on charge of having raiie3 ea8t of jaurez yesterday. Doug
i.m.j i... i,.i,.n,i rr p Pmnklln M nhr. The nlcture shows her to be', , ., , ,
iviiiuu i.v. iiuowuuu, .. . - ...... . .ilia ImIwicuu;, uis tuwvu.vu, m-
better looking than tho photographs taken or her just after the death of Re tht tfleMex.
her hUBband. .' leans stole Aked's cattle and the two
.HAS ENGLAND "PUT ONE Americans chased them.
I OVER" ON WALL STREET? Soveral of the Mexicans, according
to Lawrence, wore Carranza uni
forms. I United Press Service J Tue carranztst consul here has
NEW YORK. Jan. 22. England promised that the men will all be
'has dampened America's hopes of nUnlshed If found guilty,
'maintaining the leadership In the
financial world. Wall street was to-
HERE IS GOOD
NEWS EOR DAD
' nuanciui wunu. an buccv nao v-.
NO CHANGE TO HE MADE IN 1016 dny confronted by a steady advance 'United Press Service
. ...... . 1 ..
IfRKW rXDKIt ENGINEER HOGUKj
NOW WORKING KIU)M REND
TOWARD .MII.LICAN
PARTY NEAR PAIHLKY
j (Herald Special Service)
1 PORTLAND, Jan. 2. The greatest
ANOTHER religious meeting ever held on the Pa-
tlllc Const will convene at roruano.
Uoiitl. Iinkevlew and othor Central
Oroaon points is Identical with the
Impression "Uncle Rob" hns mado In
Portland. Men of moans ronllxu that
ho Is n worker, not a dreamer, and
ho 1h looked upon as ono of the big
gest factors In tho realization of tho
coming big wave of prosperity
throughout Oregon.
"Durlna my Btnv In Portland I had
soveral talk, with Mr. Struhorn, giv
ing him additional data regarding
Klamath county resources. His man
ner Impreased mo as that of a man
greatly Interested In this section, and
ono who believes aa I do that Klam
ath county is destined to be second of
Importance only to Multnomah.
"Strohorn's Investigations for the
pnst six or eight months have coat In
tho neighborhood of f 4,000 month.
Actuul work on tho survey for tho
Strnhorn lino out of Uend wbh bogun
this week when Mr. Strahorn's chief
ouRlneer, N. II. Rogue, arrived with
n crow and started Into tho Held, says
tho Rend Rullotln.
There are fourteen men In tho
party. Thoy nro working souwi aim
oast of tho town In tho vicinity 01 tno
MrNuunht mill. Work .will bo car-
iled on east to tho Junction point in
tho Mllllcan Valloy nnd from tuoro on
toward Rums or south toward Lnke
vlow, depending on tho dopth of tho
a,.nw nnii tho condition of tho weath
er. Another party Is now working
February 13th, nnd will remain in
?c3slon four days. It Is known as the
La) men's Missionary Convention,"
is non-scctarlnn In character, and will
be nlentled by tho male members of
oveiy church in the state of Oregon,
Southwestern Washington and up the
Columbia Rlvor as far aa Pasco.
Tho meeting Is to be addressed by
somo of tho best known religious
speakers of tho world. Such men aB
A. II K.oplor of China, J. . Trimnio,
ono of tho big Methodists of America;
James W. Hashford, famous college
president and now of China; Herman
F. Swatto of tho University of Ber
lin; Fred U. Fisher of India; Heury
II. Kolsoy of tho Congregational
ehurch; Hugh L. Burloeon of the Epla-
AUTO TRIMMINGS, SO NEW
AUTO FROCK FOR MILADY IS
NOT A NECESSITY
-Nineteen six-; Of tho 1,800,000 water horse power
2tt!JL-TZZ
.. .. , .1.. -i.rvnv la mnito ,mer COIieau IU""" .., ... ---
I UO Wll- " ' -
difficult at tho present tlmo because
of tho Inclomcmt wonthor. It Is un
derstood, however, thnt Mr. Btrahoru
Is nnxlous to comploto tho work as
soon as possible, lu order to proceed
with tho next Btops In his plan, ana
bus, therefore, put tho crew Into the
Hold nt this time.
he la sincerely interested in hla rail
way project, which will be of such a
wonderful advantage to Central Jre-
ton."
NORTHERN CHINA JOINS THE
REVOLT AGAINST EMPIRE
United Press Service
han FRANCISCO. Jan. 28. Cable
advices state that Northern China,
heretofore passive, has Joined in tno
r-vniutlon aaalnit the empire. PeUn
I U menaced by the desertion ot the
first division of Emperor Yuan's sol
dier at Kalgan.
gor, tho great singer; noro-ri o.
Johnson, tho great Boston preacher;
J. O. Randall, who added I67,uuu
mombers to tho Methodist church last
year; James P. McNaughton of Tur
koy; J. E. Crowther of Africa, and 8.
iinii Yoiiiie of Alaska, will be heard.
Timitn men are among the brilliant
1 orators of tho ovengellcal cburohes of
tho world, and will repay a trip to
1 Portland to hoar them.
1 Meetings win ne neia mornings, i-
ternoons and evenings. No collection!
will bo taken up, and no subscriptions
asked. Special railroad rates on all
roads.
United Press Service
fiHIOifin. Jnn. 22
.... i.ii oh ,iinrtv isifiiin tho Western state, 50 per cent is
I 1... f.i Anninilni1 In wlinla if In
auto frocks are to JSA Z the national forests and op
year's trimmings, bnvlng costumes.
need not bo altered one whit, said rep-. aarlculture
rcsentnttves of more than one hun-1"10" r agrlcultuw.
dred makes of cars at the Chicago
nutomobllo show, which started today
nt tho Coliseum. A chnnge In uphol
stering this season would make that
part of the car cost from 150 to 500
per ent more thnu a year ago due
to the war, they said. Manufactur-,
ors, therefore, nre using trimmings
ordered a year ago, and milady need
not chnnge her auto habit unless 8he(
so elects. , 1
In women's cars, tan, white and
gray upholstering win predominate. r , . ,,rega Servlce
In the heavier cars mo usual uiuck,
and buff trimmings will bo most in
evidence. Tito keynote In automo
bile making this season, say manufac
turers, Is simplicity and refinement.
Cars are going to be moro luxurious
nnd less gaudy.
"Wo had n great Quantity of sliver
trimmings ordered for our electrics,
and until our woman decorator enrae
along and told us It was bad taste we
thought wo had something pretty
nice.'' admitted a prominent Chicago
jauto maker today. "These silver trim
mings went to the scrap heap. We
hnve built our car along lines ot sim
plicity, and have done away with all
guudy trimmings."
In sterling rates. i WASHINGTON, D. C, Jan. 22.
American finanMers believe that The Mexican embassy here reports
England has "put one over" on herjvuia surrounded In the Sierra Ma
Amerlcan competitors. After getting' dres. No loophole U left for his es
the half billion loan, England began Jcape.
pouring twenty millions worth of
American securities on Wall street.
United Press Service
DOUGLAS, Ariz., Jan. 22 Accord
ing to Andrew Trumbo, a miner,
eight American mining men wero
hanged two months ngo at Carnejulta
In the state of Oxaca. This statement
,is not borne out by other sources.
Middle West Now Suffers
From Effects of Floods
New Semester
Monday will mark the opening of
tim new semester at Klamath County
IhibIi School, and all student con-
I . .. . .. ,k. a.. 1 kl
tompiBling enteritis iur iu nw uau
should register.
CHICAGO. Jan. 22. A heavy rain
throughout tho Middle West has add
ed to tho flood peril, threatening a
dczen towns. Hundreds ot cellars In
Chicago districts are flooded.
Wind sweeping across the lake
backed up the water In sewers. This
inundated several blocks In South
Chicago.
In some sections the water Is five
feet deep. Some houses are In such
shapo that scores had to seek other
homes.
More rain Is predicted.
floods. Some parts of the city are
under from four to eight feet ot
water.
Families nro being rescued by row-
boatmen.
Durlna the cast Ave years more
than 14,000,000 acre have been elim
inated from the national forests, and
more than 1,900,000 acres have been
made available for the benefit ot 18,.
000 settlers,
United Press Service
PHOENIX, Ariz., Jan. 22. Yuma
reports a flood rushing down the Gila
Rlvor. It it strikes the Intake of the
Imperial Valley canal 'it may prove
disastrous.
Tho Gila River rose a foot In less
than two hours,
United Press Service
TUSCON. Arlx.. Jan. 22. The
Southern Pacific bridge across the
Qlla River, a $250,000 structure, haa
been carried out. The river rose a
foot In the past two hours.
United Presa Service
JOLIET, Ills., Jan. 22. A thou
and dbodIo are homeless owing to
United Press Service
ottawa. ills.. Jan. 22, Scores i
of houses have been upset by floods,
and thousands 01 acres xpjuunui
.1.- ....11 n ik. Iltlaala.and WflSt.l
M lV VBUt VL IHV ,lfn. -.. -t..
. i mm. ' -,-mM'J ' I
rivers overnowmg. ; mmjp4
two feet an hour, sutf'sljBjML-,
llnaa hitVA aUM-aded OSSTSHS .-W
'SI
rel
vl
Mn&i
mi
m
imt
A:V 1
I
?mV I
'
fc
18
m
Ar . jr
. .. . ti( i?-,y.v.:
.k'-W?
