'FINANCIAL EDITION
NIGHT
EXTRA
Cuentng
IMttytt
tofc.ni.-No. 24
rillLAJDELPIIIA, WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 11, 101G
Constant, 1018, it till roue Linn Coumkt
AYOR'S TRANSIT PLAN
INDORSED BY TAYLOR
JARDNER HITS
A HOME RUN
,WITH TWO ON
iarquard Very Shaky in
cona inning, Aiver mak
ing Good Start
SONARD ON MOUND
Hehnston Opens Game With a
Triple Dodgers Count
. Twice in First
By CHANDLER D. RICHTER
,JBETS FIELD, BROOKLYN. Oct 11.
Gardner a second homo run in mo
Ityi put the Red Sox In the lead In the
came of the lourtn worms series
tartlet with the Brooklyn Dodgers today.
Gtrdner irot one of Marqunrd's offerings
rit Ms liking and clouted It to the right
"Md'Wall, scoring Iloblltzel and Lewis bo
fr Urn. This occurred In Boston's half
iVttx second Inning.
Brooklyn scored twice In the first Inning,
EibnAtAn hnnrlncr thn first hall nltchpd hv
itch" Leonard for a triple. He scored
t HI Myers's single, and Myers counted a
r minutes later on Janvrln's error.
THEY'RE OFF
,Xuquard was Inclined to be a trifle wild
Ike start, this being .due to tho fact that
jni trying to put too much on tho ball.
first two balls to Hooper were high.
at be got tho next two over and then
a curve ball outside. Hooper just
d to touch the ball and rolled to
!Jkieard, who threw htm out. Marquard
she got himself In the hole with Janvrln,
after wsrklng the count to, two and
he fanned Janvrln with a beautiful
balL Marquard quickly got 'Walker
kth hots and then shot a fast ball
:ht over the heart of the plate. "Walker
Ml even swing at the third strike, but
d strenuously- tcMho" decision.
.'this inning Marquard appeared to be
irkablo form, but he seemed to be
n& too hard and unless his stamina1
attr than in the first game, he probably
j t
rtoston set the fans yelling wildly when
lfiiMshed the first ball pitched by Leonard
fcajlne between Hooper and Walker, The
Wl rolled all tho way to the fence, and onlv
if "tiding by Walker prcvenjed Johnston
pm making a home run. O'Mara, coach-
t third base, decided to take no chance.
selfl him up at that bag. Leonard got
ttrlkes across on Myers, but then tried
woes him by slipping the third bait
the center of the plate. Tho'Boston
NM was playing In on the grass In order
SHke a play at the nlatc nn,i Mn... ii.i
.Mil past Janvrln for a single.
Jsanston scored easily from third.
lxard was Dlalnlv rri.ii ,.i . j
tIs He got onlv on hnii ,..- ,..
and this pitch was fouled off. Wheat
an attempt to sacrifice, and after talc.
strike cut a slow bounder to Larry
"Mr, Ho had a chanca In f-i xru
W. but apparently forgot himself and
up an excellent onDortimltv -ir
"'! tO throw to Janvrln hn......
t out Merkle, but Myers was over
r,ra- Tho first ball pitched to nnt.
struck tho dirt In front of the plate
vamgan waB exceedingly lucky to
" oaii down. Myers madn nn
t to score but Wneat da8he(j t0
U, The SernnH hill t4l...a a- ...
- -ii 1'imicu io jm-
" also was slow, but the next was a
lr curve ball.
MYURS TAT.T.TITSI
Hhaw fouled the fourth. Leonard then
"l '"finer in the hole by
X a CUrVA hnll In... s-...i .
SSr'u Cull!haw '"on Put a hard ground-
L j: " -. me youngster waa
Itt than. "u"1 l" oa. wim the
. .. .,. away om )um and roJlc(j
.almost to the pitcher's bpx. Myers
On th nl.nl...
irs.iv .. """'" "iieai iook third
cuthaw beat the throw to first
Red Box ,im ... -..,.
it tn, .t-T. - UUB l M lt"
Hfca Z '""' won irom the Phillies last
rfWi the conftden" and the
IS A w.i ' , "" lo "e rather ""rvoua-
r.JY . mssn pulled a clever
'ana brokn if ,, it , ..
,,., , " "" inaae (no short
T " Janvrln. whn it, .- ... .
lT."Dd.,hot U t( Oardner. Wheat
- long lead off third and waa
toJ?"" t.l, a. h.
wwuniing twiaiy and three
CtUllMJ OB t. ' .
ti -aw ww VMBB1 (JO
.?Hg WEATHER
p cnuf " " ' "''rw -immgay
a.co7 , ""- wW
IlWOWt OP MV
-aWLWAM 1 K1VJM TIBK CHARMS
SS'VVMC At KAOH Mew
2 i t V
- m$ Bl '
LssPMb.,
aaHlassaasBsssssW
iHPVtrtJ
PEACE PAR OFF
Premier Asquith, in asking for
huge budget, declares penco is not
in the immediate future.
ASQUITH SMASHES
PACIFIST TALK IN
RINGING DEMANDS
Pull Reparation and Future
Security Are Britain's
Goal
MAY BE HINT TO U. S.
LONDON', Oct. 11. rrcmler Asquith re
ceived a tremendous ovation In tho House
of Commons this, afternoon when he de
clared In the midst of a speech in Ahlch
he moved new war credits:.
"This war cannot end In a patched-up,
precarious, dishonoring compromise mas
qucradlng under the name of peace,"
"This Isn't the' moment for faln.h'eartf.
and wavering counsels, added the rnme
Minister when tho galleries were again
silent.
'The Allies are not vindictive, but they
will require from their enemas adequate
reparation for the past and security for
the future."
The Premier's emphatlo statement re
gardlng peace, lending new emphasis to
Lloyd Qeorge's recent statement, was con'
fctrued by his hearers as Britain's final an
swer to the recent peace rumors emanating
from the United States and from Germany.
The House of Commons welcomed It with
a great outburst of applause.
The Premier moved a vote of credit for
$1,600,000,000 with which to carry on tho
war. This is the thirteenth vote of credit
since the war began and brings the total
to $16,600,000,000. The present credit, it
Is expected, w.HI finance the war until the
end of the present year.
Reviewing military operations the Prime
Minister declared that In the recent opera
tions on the Sommo front the British had
advanced their lines seven miles on a
nine-mile front and had held all the con
quered ground.
New Loan to Go Before Reichstag
BERLIN via London, Oct. U. A bill for
a new war credit of $3,000,000,000 will short
ly be submitted to the Reichstag.
WHITE MAN ACCUSED
BYCOATESVILLEGIRL;
POLICE HUNT SUSPECT
Child Who First Blamed Negro
for Attack Tells Different
Story on Recovering
From Hysteria
POSSE LET HIM ESCAPE
COATE8VILLB, Pa., Oct. 11. The police
dragnet Is closing In upon the man believed
to have attacked five-year-old Mary Valos
ky, carried her Into the woods near her
home and left her In a critical condition.
His capture Is expected within a ftvr
hours.
Working upon a new theory that the
little girl's assailant was a middle-aged
white man, the police have unearthed suf
ficient 'evidence to cause the web of
suspicion to surround this man, who lias
been missing since Monday night shortly
after the attack occurred, It was at first
reported a big negro had attacked the girl,
her own hysterical statement being to this
effect, but when her condition Improved
somewhat last night she told deteetlyt her
assailant was white.
The peUee have learned that several
membera of the big posse which aeoured
the hlla a nd oouniry for milts arnl same
upon a white-wan not more than Me yards
from the teene ui the attack. He wua out
at Weath w grtaily exolUd When
qimtlmrf h a44he waa tn the woods
huaUn 4- Thinking the aiW's as
sailant haJ baasi a negro, the uosm dW
not arrest him. He has since 4Immj
.1 His ktantlir a hue, awjTev n4
Uw glU am positive k I kMUaai a or
aBw 1P Wav"
PROPOSALS FOR HIGH SPEED
LINES AND LEASES TO P. R. T.
ACCORDING TO 1914. SCHEME
Former Director Declares Public Is Fully
Protected, in Draft Submitted by
Smith Two Defects, Which
Can Be Corrected, Cited
MAYORS TRANSIT LEASE PLANS
APPROVED BY FORMER DIRECTOR
"FORMER Transit Director, after enrcful nnalysis, gives his full approvnl to
j- draft of the transit lease, as contained in the ordinance introduced in
Councils yesterday.
Two minor features which probably result from lccal technicalities, but
which should be corrected later, are pointed out by Mr. Taylor.
These are: ,
ITho fatluro to provide for the Camden tube;
2 The failure to provide for continuing tho Darby
e elevated beyond tho city line into Darby.
The proposed contract, in tho opinion of Mr. Taylor, adequately protects
the city and the traveling public, and should therefore receive tho immediate
and aggressive support of public-spirited Philadelphians.
BROOKLYN FANS
WON'T TURN OUT
TO SEE CHAMPS
Ebbets Didn't Make Hit
When He Advanced the
Price jof Grandstand
Seats
7000 EMPTY SEATS
By ROBERT W. MAXWELL
EDDBTS FIELD, Brooklyn, N. V Oct.
11. Brooklyn has waited many years
to see a championship team In action and
then when that team gets a chance to dis
play in a world's series fracas, the residents
of the rubber plant district fall to turn out.
There were 10,000 empty seats yesterday;
there were about 7000 vacant this after
noon, tho crowd measuring about 23,000
when the game began.
All Brooklyn Is excited, but not excited
enough to part with good money to help
Charley Ebbets make his fortune. Tho fans
are more or less peeved at Charles Holiday.
They resent his boosting of prices. There
fore they are. watching the scoreboards In
stead of going to Ebbets' monument to him
self. Ebbets certainly hates himself. He' has
his name draped In onyx around a mosaic
baseball on the foyer floor, cast In bronze
around two baseball plates on the walls,
to say nothing of having It scattered around
In other spots about the place. You can't
turn around without seeing his name' or
likeness.
The bleachers were packed an hour be
fore the game. The bleacher crowd got
the benefit of the sun. It was the best place
In tho field to watch the game. It was cold
In the stands, and the many vacant (S
seats caused Mr, Ebbets to be chilled.
The sky was cloudless, the alrcrlsp and
keen and the players exhibited Just as much
"pep" In the early practice as they did yes
terday. The teams appeared about 12: JO
and went through tho usual line of stunts.
While tho crowd wasn't ,any more than one
half the size of that that witnessed either
game In Boston, It made twice aa much
noise.
What the home fans lacked In numbers
they made up in enthusiasm. The Dodgers
appeared to have a lot it confidence after
winning yesterday's scrap. The selection
of Leonard aa ths Boston hurler caused
Uncle Wllbert to place Fred Merkle and
J I ih my Johnston In the game, Itoblrmon
expects to come back with Bherrod Smith
In Boston tomorrow.
It Is rather odd that every game In the
series thus far has been won by a single
run margin,) just as was the case In the Ave
games in 1915, which proves that there
Is little difference In the class of the pen
nant, winner in the two leagues and, that all
contests are decided on 'the breaks. The
only game to date that really has been won
on Us merita was yesterday's victory of
the Dodgers, '
BENSON DENOUNCES ARMY BILL
i '
Socialist Candidate gays At Contain
"Draft CUum"
PORTLAND. Ore., Oat. 11. A telegram
denouncing the Hay-COamberlaln amy re
orEaaUattm MU. aa ooKUInbur a. dut
dUum, waa seat to Prtsta'aat WHattn to4y
by aims u. Miant caaaiin eaMMata far
sHseMtni, wlso la hate et asowalgu teur.
" Vfce teat a tfca wiiam waa siwreveel
br
waijfc a a,taat y
Former Transit Director A. Merrltt Tny
lor this afternoon gave his full and un
qualified Indorsement to tho draft of tho
proposed ngreement between the munici
pality and the" Philadelphia Bapld Transit
Company, as contained In he ordinance In
troduced In Councils yesterday by Mayor
Smith.
Mr. Taylor, after searching study of the
ordinance, found only two points which
might be considered defects. Both of these,
he said, probably were l;romMe(J Jy , lcge.1
complications that might arise and rcould
bo remedied In the future. These two points
are the elimination of tho Camden tube and
the failure to make provision for corrylng
the Darby elevated beyond tho city lino Into
Darby,
Assuming' that the dates will be filled
In the spaces left blank In the councllmanlc
ordinance, Mr. Taylor declares that It Is
the duty of every progressive rhllftdclphlan
to give tho proposed agreement his Immcdl
ate support.
TALYOrt'H STATEMENT. ,
The statement from Mr. Taylor Is:
Careful analysis of tho proposed con
1 tract between tho city and the stice'
railway companies which Is embodied
In the ordinance Introduced in City
Councils yesterday leads me to reach
the following conclusions:
If this proposed contract be entered
Into between the city and, the com
panles, the provisions thereof will ade
quately protect the" city and the travel- ,
Ing public and gain for them all of the
facilities and advantages which I luo
advocated, with certain exceptions
These exceptions are the advantages
resultant from the construction of the
Camden tube and from the extension
of the Woodland Avenue Elovatcd Itali-
wujr ueyonu ine cuy line into Darby,
which are omitted.
The construction of the Camden tube
and of the elevated extension Into Dar
by have doubtless been deferred on
account of legal or other obstacles and
can be provided for later.
Therefore, assuming that all of tho
dates which are left blank In the ordi
nance will be designated In accord
ance with the spirit if the 1'JH tenta
tive agreement, I believe that tho pro
posed contract should receive tho imme
diate and most aggressive support of
Philadelphians ahd of every business,
labor and clvlo organization In this
city.
TWO DEFECTS CITED.
Mr. Taylor explained his references to
the Camden tube and the Woodland ave
nuo elevated extension Into Darby by say
ing that tho under-rlter project had been
omitted at this time probably because the
charter for Its construction and operation
had not been granted, while the termina
tion of tho Darby elevated beyond tho
county line might require the granting of
privileges not yet obtained. He was careful
to emphasize that his references wero not
to be Interpreted as objections In any sense
and that his Indorsement of the proposed
ordinance and Its present provisions was
as strong as ho could make It.
CAUSES CITY-WIDE SUPPOIIT
In response to the call of Mr. Taylor
business organization leaders and public
sp'rlted citizens In every section of the city
today are giving the ordinance their fullest
approval,
The draft of the lease, the Mayor ex
plained when ha presented It, Is based en
tirely upon the' tentative agreement worked
out by A. Merrltt Taylor, former Tran
sit Director and representatives of, the
Transit Company In 1 914,' with onjy such
minor changes as were necessary to bring
k up to date. At the suggestion of the
Mayor the ordinance was referred Jointly
to the Finance Committee and the Street
Hallways Committee.
K, T. fcHottsbury, chairman of the board
directors of the Philadelphia. Rapid Tran
eK Cmny, today dtaUaed to comment
n tfc fwm ot the lease 'twotxjsed, N9 aUU
meat tearing upon the Mayor's proposal
wa fartiMMNnlag frosu Thaw . MUUa.
artataiut of lot emmpawr, wtta waa ew at
LATEST SPORTS
BOSTON A. l..... 0301101 T:
BROOKLYN MU 8 0 0 0 0 0 0 "L
Lawarti Mid Orrlgmn; irarquartl and Meyers, Umpires, Quigley,
behind th tftl; Shift, an the Ikuobj Connolly, rlght-fleM foul Hue:
0Dy, lrt.flild feul Hue. -
THE GAME IN DETAIL
riKST INNING Hooper out, Mnrqimrcl to Merkle. ' Jnnvrin
fe,uneU Walker niao fanned. No vuiib, no hits, no errors.
Jolmaton trippled to right center on tho first hnll pitched. John
ton acorcri on Myera single. Merkle ivnlkcd. Wheat forced Merkle
nt ecoiui, Gardner to Janvrln. Myers scored when Janvrin fumbled
CutabAw's rrouudr. An nn attempted double steal Wheat wns out,
Carrignu to Jnnvtiu to Gardner. Mowroy fanned. Two runs, two
kits), one orror.
SECOND INNING Kohby walked. Lewis doublet! to tho right
field wall, famrling Hobby to third. Gnidner Binnshed out a home run,
Kcoiiiifr Hobby nml Lowis ahead of him. Scott safe nt second on
Whoat'a muff. Carrifjon saciificcd, MnrqunuWto Meiklo. Xeouard
fnnl. Uoopct out. Merkle uunssiatcd. Tbrcc mils, two hits, otto
orror.
Olaon out, Gardner to. Hobby. Moyors walked. Marquard out,
Leonnrtl to Hobby. lohii&tou out, Scott to Hobby. No runs, no
hits, no errors,
THIRD INNING Janvrin out, Cutshaw to Merkle. Walker
ingled. STobby filed to Myers. Wnlkor out stealing Meyers to
Cutahaw. No runs, one hit, no orror3.
Myers filed to Walker. Merkle filed to Scott. Wheat filed to
lewis. No runs, no hits, no errors.
TOTJulTII INNING Lewis slnrjlcd. OjirHncr sacrificed, Mowrcy
to. j?!!10:..' fagllsT ot- Mowroy-to Merkle. Lewis ucbrcd on- Cnrriga'rt'a
inglcT'Iieonsd ;wnIEc,d. Lronnrd started for neconil arid Carrfgn'n for
third hut Lcgjjhi'd, -nms forjod out, Mcy'cra (a Kbrklo to Cutshaw-.
lf vv 4twi iV V'y.j(y
ff"
'l
. ', -1
rv
s ..
KET CROSS FOOD SUPPLY IN SERBIA NEARLY GONE
LUtiiJOM, 01. XI. a in. AlULTIcail iUU Ulusm Ktliel Oumno-
slon's food supply In Serbia is neatly exhausted, according to dis
patches reaching hero today. Dr. Edward Stuart, director of the com-
'mission, oxpcct3 tho euppljnto bo used up by , tho nd' of 'November.-
J
...V(i
LONDON, Oct. II. Brigadier General Phillip Howell, one of tno
jroungest generals in tho eervicet Itaa been killed in action. Ho waa 30,
BRITAIN KEEPS 30,000 MQRE IRISH TROOPS
DUBLIN, Oat 11. Lord Wltnliouriio, lord lieutenant of Ireland,
In nn.addresa stated, that the Irish division-ntr tho ', front will. need'
CO,bdorcinforcemcnttfbeforoChrlstmaa.
At
CARRANZA'S AIDES ON WAY TO WASHINGTON
SAN ANTONIO, Tc Ogt. ll-CTlsco Arrcndoudo, Cairgnaa Am
bastadgdgalgnato to the United States, and General Juan Barragnn,
Carrnnea'g ohief-of -staff, loft here a$ noen today for WABhlngtou
by way of St. Louis, . -V"
PRESIDENT OFF FOR INDIANAPOLIS
A8BUHY PAHK, CX;t. 1. The lreldnt and MVs, yfUmm Wt Hhadow Lawn at
1:60 o'clock this afternoon for IndlanapoUa, whara the lraaMaat la sahsauUa
addraaa three nonpartisan vatherlnga tomorrow a Iwncbaott at tfae Ciaypaot Meial,
a Kee roads ceJeferatlo at the fair grounds and a gathering of fawnew.
r-J ,
TWO AMERICANS RKPORTKD KILLED IN. BKUSSKLS
AVUfTRHDAH, Oct, 4, Tha Keho Haifa declares that two Amarsisua Jaava
aaa auaaa w isrsiaajs aireeta oy ueraaan unora otraeua at Bnuab aaoMMM
fP sjsBijf laasr aPigsapsBjBjsjpisajBjp aaavt ajpPTasflaajBfljjBfljjBBfljjBfljpg
NIGHT
EXTRA
PRICE ONE OE3HT
U-BOAT PLEDGE
TO U. S. BACKED
BY BERNSTORFF
No Resumption of Ruthlesf
Warfare by Germany,
Envoy Says
CALLS J P O N GERARD
Business Interests Urge Wilson
to Send Protest Against
Undersea Activities
NEW YORK, Oct. 11. "There wl&
be no resumption of indiscriminate II.
boat warfare by Germany," Ambassador
IJernstoriT declared today with unusual
emphasis.. He added:
"Germany docs not contemplate
violating in any way the pledge sh
made to the United States."
The Ambassador's statement waa
made after he had held a conference
h Jumcs W. Gerard, American Am
ir ssador to Germany, who has just ar
J n lh!s courtry on & vacation.
By ROBERT J. BENDER
LONG BRANCH. N. J., Oct. 11. Secre
tary of State Lnnslns; left for Washington
today shortly before 9 o'clock, after a lonf
conference with President 'Wilson last night
on new problems raised by activities of the
dei-man submarine U-S3 off the American
const.
The Impression prevails here that Ger
many acted entirely In aeccordance with
her promises tq this Government In her
operations on British shipping oft Nantucket
Shoals Sunday.
But. while methods employed by the com
mander of the U-53 appear to comply with
this Government's stipulation, the larger
question concerning the administration now
Is whether the United States can tolerate'
further submarine activities outside her
ports, menacing commerce and constantly
exposing to danger the lives of American
men, women and children,-
There Is a strong undercurrent ot feel
ing against any such continued practice
which might be contemplated by Germany.
Scores ot telegrams hays peen received by
the President from business Interests de
manding that sharp reminders must be glv- -en
Germany that she cannot virtually -"blockade
the ports of the United States."
Some ndvlso that Ue action of this Govern- ,
ment should not be limited to mere .protest,
Officials here declined to comment on
what wilt be this Government's 'next step
In tho new submarine problem. Secretary.
Lansing would make no statement whatever
before leaving for Washington.
After an early breakfast with Mr. tan
ping the President left for a game of golf
and nothing regarding his conference lVlth
the Secretary of State was forthcoming
Concluded tn I'm Two. Column Fire
FOUR LITTLE "BOLD UANDITS"
AUUKSTKD IN OWN DUGOUT
Police Find Boys While Looking for
Thieves
Four little alleged bold, bad bandits were
arrested early today by two big policemen
of the Dranshtown station.
The four, who said their names were
Michael Welsh, thirteen years old) Joseph
Yardy, thirteen years old; Joseph Flannl-
gan, fourteen years old, and James Meenan,
twoHe years old, were found In a dugout
along the Reading Railway near Eighteenth
street and Wlndrlm avenue.
The four boys had dug a hole and haa
then tunneled for quite a distance tn tha
bank. The potlce found the boys through
an lnestigatlon following numerous re
ports of large quantities ot bread and milk
which are said to have been taken from the
neighborhood lutely. Yesterday two auto
mobile lap robes were taken from 'an auto
mobile on Wlnggohocklng street, so the po
lice got busy.
District Detective Oraharn' and Patrolman
Hopkins, who raided the secret ci've this
morning, say they found a large quantity
of the missing property. All the allecaa
bandits were placed under arrest and take
to the House ot Detention, where they WIH
have a hearing.
LETTER BROUGHT BY 1-B0AT
WA8 ONLY NOTICE ON ARRIVAL
Mystery of Message to Ambassador
BernstorfT Explained
WASHINGTON, Oct. 11. The mvsteiir
of the letter to Ambassador von B trustor
brought to Newport, R. I., by Captain Hans
Rose, on the German submarine U-JJ, waa
cleared this afternoon.
The German Embassy aiwouHoed. that
the letter contained only n formal nimaVwg
tlon that the U-53 had entered an AjaaV
lean port and euld depart wlthle) tt
man iweniy-iour neura, rue
pointed out that all German
commanders who enter neutral pasta.
make euah raperta to the Oerwaa
aadar In the eountry vieHerf,
a"i
t
Six Wife MmHirt U VnUto
Wis adtnHfaa tt prebate taaay
of JuHa -R. ,)tw4, t( NarUt
atfeet, wMcti Ut private henusata HawaWJ '
ot , arty valuta at tl7,M;
OaU. 111 Meftat Twejity-Mvaaia
til.; Jem H. Peter, Mlf North
haan atreaC itl; Anna ltllr, a
In aM. Jasaah'a Hospital, f toil ,
rawa, 11 sMajily ttraajt, lltta. apt,,
CWf, m Hasjarm atnaai. fMMK,
g pti of
