<
\\ F.ATI U .R. ^ /"^ ^ !(. . 'f "From Press to Home
mmm\ mw shentng wtaf.
' ? - -' I y fl f | / Sworn Net Circulation, Month of September.
CLOSING NEW YORK STOCKS PAGE l'?. ^imi S 1?'?. Dally Ai<r>|[?. 74.S30) Sunday. M.SSS.
No. 2!>.4tS. WASHINGTON, D. C., WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 11. 1916.?'TWENTY PAGES. ~ ONE CENT.
CONFER ON MS
OY GERMAN O-OOATS
President and Secretary Lansing
Have Long Discussion at
Shadow Lawn.
FIND NO LAWS VIOLATED
LONG BRANCH. N\ J., October 11.?
Secretary of State Lansing, declining
to discuss his conference last night
with President Wilson on the German
submarine activity oft the American j
coast, left here today for Washington.
The Secretary and -Mr. Wilson were up j
early this morning and talked briefly j
before the former's departure.
It was reported after Mr. Lansing j
left that he would stop in Atlantic j
City on his way to Washington to con- j
fer with members of the Mexican- j
American joint commission, but at the I
executive offices here it was asserted
hat he gave no indication of such an J
errand. I
Officials here declared there was not
statement to be made regarding Mr.
Lansing's visit beyond the fact that h- i
* and the President had discussed the j
submarine situation very fully. It was!
reiterated that on the basis of reports j
so far as received no grounds had been
found for drastic action.- So far as
rh-- government now knows, it was said,
the rules or' international law were
followed in the recant submarine attacks.
Many Telegraph President.
The President lies received many
telegrams urging that some action be j
taken to prevent a repetition of sub
marine attacks near the American j
c?ast.
Mr. Wilson planned to leave Shadow i
Lawn at 1:50 o'clock this afternoon |
for Indianapolis, where he will speak
twice tomorrow. Mrs. Wilson ;\nd j
Secretary Tumulty made arrange-}
inents to accompany him. He will |
return here Friday. After Mr. Lan- j
sing's departure today the President ;
played golf. j
The President will go to Indiatiapo- ,
Us by way of Philadelphia, where he J
arrive at 4:10 o'clock, and remains ;
for twenty minutes. II** will reach !
Indianapolis at 10:55 o'clock tomor- ;
row morning" ami after luncheon will i
review an automobile parade. At 11:50:
o'clock in tin- afternoon he will ad- .
dress a good roads celebration at the j
fair grounds, and at 4 o'clock will j
speak at a meeting of farmers. He I
plans to leave Indianapolis at 3:45 1
o'clock tomorrow afternoon, arriving here j
t Friday afternoon.
Grave Danger of Mistakes.
Administration officials take the position
that the transferring of submarine
warfare so close to America's
shores is fraught with grave danger
because of the possibility of mistakes
being made by submarine commanders.
Reports that strong sentiment exists
in Uermariy for the resumption of submarine
warfare on a broader scale
caused some alarm among officials.
The announcement of Counselor Polk
of the Stat*- department in Washington
That the I'nited States will refuse to
accept the contention of the entente
allies that neutnals should deny the
use of their harbors to all submarines
preceded the arrival of Secretary Lansing
here. The President and the Secretary
of Stat'- went over thjs point in
connection with the discussion of the
entire issue.
The arrival of' James \V. Gerard,
\meri<. an ambassador to Berlin, in Xew
Vork shortly before -Mr. Lansing left
That city for Shadow Lawn added interest
to the meeting t>etw? en the
President and -Mr. Lansing, because ??f
the fact that tin Secretary saw Mr.
Gerard at luncheon In New York at
the house of Col. K. M. House.
It is, assumed that the ambassador
oiaeed before the Sc-cretary of State
information omernirig th< situation
in Germany it affects the I'nited
States for transmission the P-resident.
U. S. and German Envoys Meet.
NEW YORK. October 11.?There was
. meeting here today between James
VV. Gerard, American ambassador to
4 Germany, and f'ount von Bernstorif,
G-rman ambassador to the I'nited
States. They are both staying at th~
.?me hot* i, and the American diplomat
ailed upon the German. Both said
that the visit was informal and that no
should be attached to it.
They talked for about fifteen minutes.
Berlin Says Appam Decision
Prevents Bringing Prizes
Into Ports of United States
BERLIN. October 1?, by wireless to
the Associated Press via Tucker'ton,
October 11.?The German submarine
*" ampaign off the American coast, according
to the firm conviction in admiralty
and foreign office circles, undoubtedly
is being conducted in full
< ordain <- willi th?- rer osr r. i ?*.,! mi...
of cruiser warfare and with th?- Gerundertakings
toward the L"nit d
-^tate.^ not to sink ships without warn.i,-.
and without making adequate
provision for the safety of the pas:!.
An ric .ii court in tl?? case of the
British steamer Appam, which was
. warded to iier British owners after
taken into Norfolk by a German
p: ige erew, inak?-.i it i;cpracticable 'o
mid prizes into American ports.
rfubma rim commanders, therefor*-,
have no option ?'xcypt to destroy them!
ft is assumed here that the American
government h is no ground for ob..
ction to ihe operation.-; of subioui
nes in sucfi proximity to the An er? :?
coast, since the German warships
ue merely following the example of
Great Britain and her allies, which
iiu v? Kepi watch off t he American
Are Waiting Official Reports.
NTetther the foreign oflce nor the admiralty
is w illing 1 o express an opinion
as to individual cases like that of the
British steamship Stephano or the
Dutch steamship Bloomersdijk. The
only details available here are those
from British sources. Pending the rec-ipt
of fuller information it is taken
for granted that the action of the submarines
was justified.
Joseph ?\ Grew, who is ading as
American charge d'affaires, during the
absence of A in be. dor Gerard, has received
no . ?mn,untcation? from Wash.i.gt.oii
>n i be subject, nor has he thus
far I ?ke' up iri\ phase ? f .1 w ith the
foreign ol'Uee, all of whose higher oili
l rials are attending I he deliberations
tb r* ichs-ag c. mniitt* e and conscoucni.lv
are inaccessible at present.
The Berlin newspapers are just ber
.
ginning; to receive dispatches describing
the excitement in the United States
over the submarine campaign. The only
reference thus far published is a passage
in a Wall street report and consequently
there has been no newspaper
comment on this subject.
Think Sinking of Vessels Legal. i
AMSTERDAM, October 11, via London, J
1:4"? p.m.?A Semi-official telegram re-j
jeeivtd here today from Berlin comment- j
j ing on the activities of the ?ieraian suit - '
j marine U-.~?3 off the American Atlanti- !
I coast, says: i
j "The commerce war on the Unite lj
) States coast is being conducted accord- 1
J ing v> the German prize regulations. !
, which lay down thai, a merchant ship j
i after being held up and searched and J
j : he passengers brought into safety may. i
1 unoer . f-riain conditions, do suiik.
j * These conditions are. for example. 1
j tliat it is a question of an enemy shin
i or a neutral ship carrying contraband .
I ami that the military situation excludes
! the possibility of taking a vessel to a
spanimIpfInds
KINGSTONIANBOATSi
I
r
Five Deserted Craft Indicate
Eastbound Steamer Picked
Up the Survivors.
NAVY GIVES UP THE HUNT
XKWPOPiT, n. T.. October 11.?The
finding of five abandoned ship's boats
by the Spanish steamer Antonio Lopez, '
reported in a radio message relayed to
the naval station here today by the
Nantucket shoals lightship, was considered
in naval circles as suggesting
a possible trace of the crew of the
steamship Kingstonian, reported torpedoed
by a German submarine Sunday.
Search for the crew had been suspended
by the naval authorities, who
doubted whether the submarine's vie- ,
tirna included any vessel other than!,
j those whose crews had been brought to !
f port. By some the message was held j
to he far from conclusive evidence that j
a sixth vessel was sunk, the sugges- |
tion being made that the boats may i
have been those from which a crew i
now ashore was taken.
"We have found five abandoned boats i
along a radius of three miles," the ines- j,
sage said. The rest of the radiogram j
was somewhat unintelligible because of j
evident errors in transmission. As re- |
eeived it read: "They had on board his !
apparel only. It is impossible to read
his names. One of them had painted
: word Liverpool.' All in good condi- j
j tion."
Radio operators could not suggest a
j word which might sound like "his" in j
! May Be oil East bound Ship. ,
I Liverpool Is the hailing port of the J
| steamship Kingstonian, and from that j
! fact naval officers developed the possi- j
| bility that the boats were from that;
vessel. Liverpool, also, is ine nailing ,
I port of the steamer West Point, whose j
| crew was rescued hv a torpedo boat de- j
i.-troyer. Whether all the West Point's'
! boats are accounted for had not been i
i determined today. The statement in the '
; message that the? boats w**re in good :
i condition was accepted as an indication i
1 that no harm fell to thqse who had |
; been in them. If the boats were those
of the Kingstonian it was thought her
crew probably was picked up by an
. eastbound vessel, which will land them |
i on the other side.
j The United States destroyers which;
nave been searching for, the crew of the)
: Kingstonian returned here today. None j
of thern reported having found any
, trace of the Kingstonian's boats. Th?
.- a was very rough and the weather
old during yesterday and last night. j
What became of the submarine after j
-he completed tier raid or: i'ritish and I
I neutral steamers Sundcy night re- i
mained a mystery today. The move- j
mem of allied warships which are supt
posed to have increased the vigilance j
! of their patrol off the coast after re
' i-eiving word of the sinking of six i
steamers also was unknown here.
Savannah Scare Minimized.
SAVANNAH. Go., October 11.-?If aj
submarine is lurking in waters of j
: the south Atlantic coast, as unofficially '
' reported yesterday, it had success- |
fully evaded detection today. <Ywience 1
i given first reports diminished to such j
'extent today that Oapt. Glover of the j
; Hritish steamship Nova -Reared his !
j ve sel this morning and announced he j
' *xpacted to sail later in the day.
, Persons familiar with waters about i
ha\ nearby islands could be success- I
f'iiiy used as a submarine base. While ;
fhere are many islands near this port. j
: practically every one is inhabited and j
;pas.-ag*s about thern are extremely;
treaeherous for a navigator not thor- j
' "Ughly familiar with shifting mud
i banks. Osssbsw bland, mi* of the j
! largest, is a game preserve, on which
! caretakers are maintained and which
is carefully watched for poachers. *
Hundreds of fishermen get their liv-{
. ing from waters <jbout Warsaw and i
'>ssabaw islands.
U. S. S. Nevada Puts to Sea.
XKW YOKK. October 11.?The bat tieship
Nevada left the navy yard here
j early today and passed out to sea,,
: heading in an easterly direction. A
| suggestion that she was bound for the j
j scene of the recent Oerman submarine;
'activities was met by the statement at
the navy yard That she was "cut for aj
iittie cruising cxerci.se along the j
"H.'t." Further information as to her
mo or ?!? ;-rinariori was refused.
RUSS DISLODGE TURKS
ON MOUNTAIN SLOPES
~ I
{'KTIi' t^HAD, October I !.? Tlx* fol- '<
<,w >t.y. announcement was made toda>
: by the war oftb . :
"In the coastal region on the < *au- j
asian front our gallant troops dis- j
. lodged the Turks from the mountain;
lopes n?.ar So^o and Cinardjik, and!
gained the right hank of tip; river j
Karshutdara. to tin- mouth."
Boy Killed. Three Hurt, by Car.
INDIANAPOLIS. October 11.?A boy)
was killed and three other persons I
v.-je injured seriously late last night :
v. hen they were struck by a street cur. j
A rm el Wilson, nine years old, was
killed. Mrs. Zea Grauell. wife of tin
K?:\. tJ. F. Gruell. and her daughter
Mather and Samuel H. Wilson suffered
ye r?' injuries. Five others of the
Wilson and Grauell families escaped.
IThe;' had just alighted from one car
and stepped in 1 lie path of anothor going
in the opposite direction.
iK5d^6SS?S(*JE^&-?aB.. 4 .5^.
URGE WILUAM HITZ
FOR DISTRICT BENCH
Friends Believe President Will
Appoint Him to Justice Anderson's
Place.
STRONG OFFICIAL SUPPORT1
A well defined rumor gained credence
in Washington today to the effect that
President Wilson will shortly appoint
William Hitz, an attorney of the Department
of Justice practicing before
the Court of Claims, to the position on
the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia recently made vacant by the
death of Associate Justice Thomas II.
Anderson. Or, if it is not now settled
that President Wilson will make this
appointment, it is believed that Mr.
Hitz will have the first and strongest
support of the Attorney General for
the vacancy, as compared with any
other names that may come under consideration.
Mr. Hitz is a Washingtonian. From
1899 until shortly after the beginning
of the present administration he was
associated with the law firm of which
Wayne MacVeagh is a member. Mr.
Hitz was born here, the son of John
Hitz, the first consul of Switzerland to
the United States. His father was for
many years associated with Alexander
Graham B?-ll and was for a number of
years in charge of the Volta Bureau in
Georgtown. me son oemg
of Georgetown Law School and Harvard
University.
May Not Appoint During Recess.
When President Wilson appoints an-'
other member of the Supreme Court of
the District he will have named a majority
of its members, the court consisting
of six members and his previous
appointments having been Justice Sid-,
dons. Justice McCoy and Chief Justice
Covington. The other two members arc
Justice Gould and Justice Stafford. The J
appointment may not be made imme- !
diatelv, as lawyers today called atten-1
tion to the fact that it lias been the i
President's policy not to make appointments
to the federal bench during the j
recess of Congress.
At the Department of Justice today j
it was said that there have been only
two names submitted, so far, for the
vacan^ judgeship. These are William J
Henry White, formerly an assistant !
corporation counsel for the District of
Columbia, and J. M. Gudger, jr.. of
North Carolina, formerly a representa-j
five in Congress. Members of the bar, however,
arc informally discussing
many names of men whom they would1 f
like to see appointed, and it was be-j I
lieved by some of them that if there is I
any "slip-up" in the appointment of Mr. j |
Hitz, the present district attorney, John j
K. Laskey, might be named. One member
of the bar, who was of counsel re-1
cently in opposition to Mr. Laskey, in
one of the most celebrated cases ever,
before the District courts, laying aside
the animosities then engendered*, aaid
today:
"Well, John K. Laskey would make a
line judge. I know other members of <
the bar who think so, too." *
Others Mentioned for Place.
The speculation as to the appoint- j
ment among members of the bar, be- |
fore they heard that Mr. Hitz stands !
high on the list, took a wide range, j
and, in addition to Mr. Laskey's name. | included
that of S. J. Graham of Penn-! ?
sylvania, an assistant attorney general,
who is said by his friends to be '
in a receptive attitude toward the appointment,
although it is nbt believed :
that he would make any active effort I f
to obtain it. i
Mr. Graham, as well as Mr. Hitz, had \
much to do with collating information I
for the Attorney General and the Pre.-- 1
idetit in regard to previous appointments
by the President to the Su-it
preme Court of th?- District. One man!
familiar with Department of Justice, C
the two men he believe* Air. Hitz is j S
being chiefly considered, if there has I
not been, in fact, an understanding ; r
that Mr. Hitz should hav?; the next
vacancy among such appointments, ami
that in any event then- is an irnpres-,
?icm that i'r?-sident Wilson certainly !
intends to name a District of Colum-i.
bia man for his vacancy on the District J
bench. S
Today's speculation among members \
of the bar also included the name of ..
Senator Hlair Doc of Maryland, recent-!
ly defeated at the primaries for a sec- i
ond term, who is: a life-long member [ t
of the I>i?trict bar and well know n L
and popular here.
There seems to !> - no iloubt among |J
lawyers, notwithstanding the fact thatj^
there ;tr' but two applications on llle ! 1
at the Attorney Oem-raTs office, that j '
there are manj silent and una vowed '
candidates for the position, which car-j ^
ries with it the distinction of being | !
a federal judgeship and which is a:'
lifetime appointment..
CREW PICKED UP AT SEA.
Rescue by Steamer of Seven Men1 r
Belonging- to Schooner.
NKVV YllKK. (October 11.?News was j v
received, here by wireless today of the J *
rescue of seven men, believed to be '
from the schooner T. W. Dunn, by the j
steamship HI Kio of the Southern 1'a- j a
ciflc Steamship Company, about 250 ! J
miles cast of Savannah, Ga. The mes* j j
sage from the HI lli<? said she had j \
picked up lh?- cre& of the "S. S. Bunri" j a
ami that the vessel was waterlogged. I ^
No steamer named Bunn is listed in , j
the marine record. The abandoned ves- j
S.-1 in thought to In- the T. W. Dunn. !
whh-Si lefi New Orleans September 10!
for Har.-. lona. Spain. The Dunn le j
own.-n 1>> A l>. Cummins of l'hila<lelphi.t.
Tile shipwreekeU crew is heing .
tul.-u to ' la 1 veston, Tex.
. ] ,
Harry B. Gates, Capitalist, Dead.
INDIANA POL. J S, October 11.?Harry
K. < lutes. fifty-four years old. president
of Hi. <lates-McOlellan Hotel Company, j
which owns the Hotel Severin here and
the Miami Hotel, at Dayton. Ohio, died 1
hist night oi iipoplexy. He was a well j 1
known capitalist of Indiana arid was I president
and founder of the Climax j *
'offer and Baking Powder Company. ;
Parade to Show Progress of Doctors. <
INI ?I ANA POl-dS. Tnd., October 11.?A
public health parade is to be today's
feature of Indiana's centennial celebration.
The advance in medical science s
and sanitation will be shown in imjin.
rous floats. President Wilson will
be here tomorrow for two speeches. 1
To Postpone Contemplated Strike. ]
NKW YORK'. October It.?About 300 1
conductors, guards and gatemen, em- J
ployed by the Hudson and Manhattan 3
railroad, which operates the tubes un- ,
der the Hudson river, decided today to <
postpone until 4 p.m. today a contem- <
plated strike. I
i
W,AitINE v.K .
WHFaHe |j| jUg
lit
JUST (
Sans in trap
soumsomme
Jalient Projecting Towardi
Vermandovillers Cut Off
by the French.
:OCH MAKES MANY GAINS
BERLIN, October n.?German
roops in a salient projecting tovard
the town of Vermandovilers,
on the battle front south of
he River Somme, have been cut
)ff by the French forces, it was
itated in the German official state
nent given out today.
French Gain More Ground.
PARIS. October il.?in the course of
ast night French troops gained more
ground south of th>* River Somme, it ;
vas announced today at the French i
var department.
The French troops yesterday cap- \
ured the village of Bo vent, the north
.nd west outskirts of Ablaincourt and
.lso the greater part of the Chaulnes j
vood. Prisoners to the number of
,200 were taken in tlie operation, ac- i
ording to an otlieial statement.
The ' Jerinans attacked heavily at
iehoenhaezin. in the Vosges, after vio- ;
f-nt shelling, the statement adds, arid
enetrated the French trenches at il
:ertain point, but were thrown back
?y the grenadier corps.
French Communication.
The text of the French statement j
cads:
"North of the Somme there was great '
irtillery activity on both sides. A surmise
attack south of Sailly-Saillizel
irought us tifty prisoners, two of. therxi
dlk ers.
".Soutli of 11?? Somme we attacked on
l front ?>i Jvo kilometers between !
ierny-En-Santerre and Chaulnes. Our
nfantrv vigorously carried the enemy ;
losition whit'll was their objective and t
vent beyond it an appreciable distance
n certain points. The hamlet of Ho*ei;t,
the northern and western out-j
ikirts oi Ablaincourt and the greater
>art of chaulnes wood were captured, i
"Th. enemy sustained considerable1
osses. notabl\ around Ablaincourt.
rwelvc hundred prisoners were taken. j
"Aviation: During the night oi Octo-;
or 3-ln Adjt. Pilot Baron and Adjt. |
Sltutttrnrt the!
v:'s ?"n,TVslViK1'frm|,|>tliv factory ;i? o1
c.sult of tho liorubiu-dmcnt."
Britibh Official Report.
"The enemy artillery," says the Brit- j
sli official statement issued today, j
'was somewhat more active during- the
light on the greater part of the battle
ront (in northern France). North of j
Veuvilht St. V'aast the enemy blew it 5
arnouflct early without inflicting ca.su- j
ilties.
"A -successful minor enterprise was j
nude by our < ro<">? ' t the enemy's 1
trenches sou'tli of Huluch."
Enemy Repulsed, Says Berlin. j
BERLIN. Octber 11.?The official I
innouncement of yesterday follows:
"Army group of Prince Rupprecht: j
yesterday, especially in the hours of ;
the evening and night, the enemy j
rgain delivered strong attacks 011 the
ong battle front between the Ancre
ind tlie Somnie. All his efforts were
fruitless. Attempts of the French to
idvance east of Vertnandovillers were
trust rated.
"Army group of the German crown
[>rihce: On both sides of the Mouse'
fVerdun front) there were spirited
?n counters with artillery and mine
throwers."
'J
\ ( >
)NE FLARE-UP AFTER AX(
GRAND JURY SUMMONS
CHICAGOCITYOFf ICIALS
Probe Into AHeged Protection of
Vice and Gambling Goes (
on Today.
I
CHICAGO, October 11.?Mayor tVil- j
liam Hale Thompson, C. C. Healey, J
chief of police of Chicago, and several j
other city officials appeared in the; j
criminal court building today in rc- !
spoils* to subpoenas to testify before i
the* grand jury in connection with an j
investigation of alleged protected vice j
and gambling in this city. Maclay! r,
Hoyne, state's attorney, who is push-j ^
itig the investigation, announced several
days ago his intention of seeking ;ti
the indictment of Ch^ef liealey on i p
charges of conspiracy to protect
gambling and vice generally. U?- said '
further that lie would "shake the city'
na.ll from top to bottom." ia
The state's attorney sent out fifteen;
detectives today with subpoenas fori
-very police captain in the city to|;l
appear before the grand jury imtnedi- ' u
ately with all correspondence relating ' a
to gambling, vice and saloons. }'
IA
Conference Lasts All Night. 1
The mayor. Samuel A. Ktlelson, bis!
eorporation counsel, and Chief liealey j
were in conference all night on the i ?
situation. ! 11
The officials went to the 'luminal | ^
court building in a party in taxicabs, ^
taking with Iheni records of the l"
mayor's office and the police depart- tl
ment. asked for by* tin- subpoenas, o
Records from the ollice of Deputy Supt.
of Police M. P. Fun knouser were
taken yesterday. In ih?- city hall f?
party which appeared at the criminal '.v
court building, besides those already ,
mentioned, v. ? t Mr. KUelson, Howard '
a. Sprogle, assistant eorporation coun- f(
se); Chester K. Cleveland. first, assist- <j.
aut eorporation counsel; Abraham o;
Merinbaum. the mayor's chief clerk; jj
William Jaitbardt.. seeretary to the \V
chief, and Scrgt. John .i. Xaughton. , p,
TOTAL GERMAN LOSSES j"
PLACED AT 3,556,018 j/,
_ j A
l.uNbuN. October 11. 3:30 pun.?Ger-| v,
man casualties from the beginning of M?
the war to the end of September were J
3,556.018, according to an official Brit- lr
isii compilation as given out here to- s;
day. The statement says:
"A report compiled from German of"- ...
licial casualty lists shows the total
German casualties in September as 17l?,684.
bringing up the totals since the,
war from the same source to 3,536,01$/')
Campaigning in Chicago Theater, j
CHICAGO, October 11.?A novel phase j
?f the campaign of the woman's party | j 1
developed here today when Mrs. H. O. '
Havemyer of N'ew \ork spoke for fif- . *
teen minutes between acts of a popular j s<
play at a downtown theater. She urged b
her hearers to vote against President
Wilson on the grounds that the na- u
tional administration has consistently
opposed a constitutional amendment il
enfranchising women. h
Attempts Suicide. No Cause Known, i
HUFFAL.O, N. Y.. October 11.?Thur- ^
man A. Hart, president of the King
l>ort Motor Sales Company, was found
sitting at his desk early today with a s,
bullet wouad in his head. On the floor
beside him was a .38-caliber revolver. w
He was still alive, but physicians said
there was little hope for his recovery. tV
Associates of Mr. Hart could assign i
no reason for attempted suicide. The
wound apparently was inflicted about ?j
midnight.
-? si
Dora Duncker, German Author, Dead iS
BERLIN, October 11, by wireless to T
Sayvillel?Dora Dsneker, a well knownGerman
author, is dead.' She was born Ki
in Berlin in 1850. ai
f
" ^ ) .
\ V )) '
gpiin ^
I
j
I
I
I
.)TIIER.
rEUTON INVASION
OF RUMANIA IS ON
{
Raptors of Rothenthurn Push
Over Border, Is Report.
Enemy Continues Retreat.
3RITISH SEIZE TWO TOWNS
LOXDOX, October 11.?The invasion j
f Rumania by Austrian and German !
roops has begun, says tho Overseas1
lews Agency of Berlin. The Bavarian j
roops which captured Rothenthurn :
ass have pushed farther south end ;
rossed the border.
Pursuit of flit.' st.-oi'id Rumanian ;
rmy, l>eaten by the Austro-Gerrnans at
^ronstadl. in Transylvania, continues, |
cording to the German official state-|
lent. Tin- Rumanians, the .statement j
his, also have been defeated in the ,
.It valley.
British Are Near Seres.
British troops are now within two miles j
f Seres, one of the most important towns j
i the strip of Greek Macedonia occupied j
y the Bulgarians shortly before Rumania :
ntered the war. The capture of two more !
owns, Faysalova and Prosenik, east of I
he Struma river, also is announced in an j
fficlal British statement from Saloniki. ;
The sustained character <?r' the 'of-nsive
on the part of the British troops
hieh forced a passage of the Struma inicates
that after several momentary ef)rls
serious operations have been unertaken
on the Macedonian front. Not
nly in the Struma region but in the teritory
south and southeast of Montclair,
here the S vbians ii;i\v been making iinortant
progress recently. heavy lighting
; under way. Berlin admits small enemy
ains in the Cerna regions.
It i. probable these operations-are being
udertaken partly to relieve the pressunu
I he Rumanians, who are being hard
ressed by the Bulgarians and their
ustrian and German allies.
In Transylvania the troops of Gen.
an Falkenhayn are forcing back the
umanians rapidly and are now close to
te Rumanian border at some points.
Vienna reports the repulse of Kulanian
attacks in Transylvania and
ays the defeated Rumanians are be- .
ig pursued into the mountains, l'n-j
fficial dispatches from the entente |
pita Is admit tha" the Rumanians arrow
seriously menaced.
Bulgarian Statement.
An official statement issued today by 1
Bulgarian war department says: J
Between l^ake Presba and the Cerna
iver (southern Serbia) there was liveartillery
activity. In the beiul of
Ue Cerna our artillery lire and at
oine points our counter attacks reulsed
all the enemy attacks.
* ?n me r.iui-K sea coast live Kussian
arships shelled the port of Iniada
seventy-five miles northeast of Adrinople).
An enemy licet shelled the
eights around Tatladjakeui."
Rumanians Repulsed.
An official statement issued by the
ustro-Hungarian war office says:
"Eastern theater?Northeast of Veralieutz
we repulsed Rumanian attacks.
1 the frontier region south of Hutzeg
e captured the mountain of Negiului.
"In the battle of Brasso (Kronstadt)
ie number of prisoners taken reached
175, while the booty included 25 guns.
5 of them heavy pieces; numerous muition
cars and wagons, 2 railway ennes.
more than 800 wagons laden with
lpplies and much other war material. 1
The defeated second Rumanian army *
being pursued into the mountains, i
he army of Gen. von Arz has driven t
ick the enemy- rear guards, .which t
ere offering resistance, and is now f
lining the outlet into the Uzik plain <
id the Guyepuina basin." t
HUGE WAR CREDITS
AGAIN PROPOSED
Britain Asks 300,000.000 J
Pounds?Germany to Seek
Twelve Billion Marks.
TOTALS FOR BOTH IMMENSE
J
i j i
j The British and German gov- j j
ernments are preparing to ob- j
tain further huge credit votes j |
for carrying on the war. A vote |
of ?300.000.000 asked of the
house of commons will bring up
the total expenditure sanctioned ;
since the beginning of the war |
to ?3,132,000.000.
In the reichstag a bill for a
credit of 12,000,000,000 marks ,
will be presented soon, which
will increase Germany's total to
64,000.000,000 marks.
LONDON. October 11.?The house of
commons today began consideration of
the serious problems resulting from
the war with the introduction by
Premier Asquith of a new vote of
credit for ?300,000,000. Under the pro- j
cedure of parliament this step permits i
members to discuss any subject.
Jt was expected the debate would
cover a wide range and would include,
in addition to financial questions, the |
government of Ireland, which national- j
ists who have definitely taken sides i
against the government will bring up; I
the suggestion of extension of con- !
scription to Ireland, which unionists j
are urging, but which it is understood
the government opposes, and the ob- !
taining of more men from England, I
Scotland and Wales-bv closer scrutiny
of men under forty years of age who
have been thus far exempted from mil- (
itary service. Extension of the age |
limit to forty-five is not expected at |
present.
Thirteenth Vote of Credit.
The vote of credit is the thirteenth
since the outbreak of the war, bringing j
up the total to ?3,132.000.000. As today's!
credit vote is expected to last only un- !
lil the ned of the present year, another j
request will be necessary before
March, but in view of the statement made |
yesterday by the chancellor of the ex- '
chequer. Reginald McKenna, there
pronably will be no fresh public bor- j
rowing in the shape of a'.long-term j
war loan at present, as the country's!
needs are being met by revenue front !
taxes and by short-dated issues. Thej
latest 0 per cent exchequer bonds yield- '
ed more than ?20.000,000 last week.
Financial circles and particularly
holders of the 41 i. per cent war loan]
and other lower-pricetj issues which re- ;
cently have fallen to a discount are !
hoping the premier will make some I
statement regarding the possibilities of j
conversion of their holdings into a nev. >
loan when such an issue is considered, i
Reichstag Takes Up Work.
BKKLIX, October 11.?The reichstag j
reassembled at 11 o'clock this morning (
and opened debate on the chancellor's !
speech and the gene.a! situation. De- j
spite the almost uninterrupted delibera- (
tions betoken party and goVrMimoiit i
representatives in committee since the J
chancellor's speech was delivered, the:
attitude of* the reichstag or seven of ,
the committee on the momentous issues j
of the nay still is not ciearlv denned. !
as is shown by the fact that after party j
caucuses lasting all of yesterday after- j
noon the committee of ways and means
assembled at an e renin"- session for a
rinal wrestle with the pronleni.
Bill for New- War Credit.
A bill for a new war credit of Ii.\- ,
ouo.oon.ooo marks will shortly be submitted
to the reichstag. Th - bill has
only h precautionary character, but is ;
deemed necessary because the margin \
between the trodit granted to June,'
1P10, totaling .yj.onn.ooo.opn marks, a i.e.
th.. sum of iT.ooo.uoo.ooo marks raised .
through the fiv.- >j\ar loans, has become
rather small. The new war loan ;
is not expected to be floated before j
spring next year, as the government
hopes to get along until then with the
funds on hand and the help of short- .
term treasury notes.
_
REPLIES TO U. S. PROTEST
OF MAIL INTERFERENCE
French Government's Note Is Soon
to Be Laid Before the State
Department.
The reply of the French government!'
to the protest of the L'nited State.s-gc.v-!
eminent against interference with the
mails has reached Washington and}'
probably soon will be laid before the
State Department. Its delivery to Sec- i
retary Lansing probably wiil be d? - I'
layed until it and the British reply cs.nl]
be presented simultaneously.
Meanwhile the notes are subject.- *.. '(?
consideration by the ambassadors of i j
the allied powers in Washington with
the purpose of securing a harmoniou: j.
United States.
Nothing '-an be harmed officially at this:'
stage of th? contents of the notes, but il , j
is believed that, although expressing will- 1
iignoss to do everything possible to mini- 1
inize the annoyance a.nd delay caused by ; ;
the examination of the mails, the allied ;
[rowers ate by means willing to admit '
the lack of legal tight on tin tr part to 1
.-ontinue such examination or to make any <
hange in the principle.
THIRTEEN VESSELS SUNK i!
OFF THE ENGLISH COAST!
AMSTERDAM, October 11.?A Oer- *
man submarine operating in the Eng- 1
lish channel between September 30 at: i t
i >etober 5, says a telegram received t
here from Iterlin, destroyed seven 1
merchantmen belonging to hostile c
countries and throe neutral steamers, r
rhe ships of the entente allies regis- t
re ted a gross tonnage of 4,031, while t
the tonnage of the neutral steamers t
kvas 3.357.
Another submarine October 1, tl.<; c'
nessage says, sank three English
trawlers off the east coast of England. J
Alleges Combine of Milk Dealers, s
NEW YORK, October 11.?Deputy Atorney
General Morton E. Lewis, the f
;tate investigator appointed to inquire a
nto the milk situation, charged when b
he investigation was resumed today t
hat for years a "milk combine" has s
ixisted in New York city which has r
miitrolled the price paid to farmers and s<
lie price charged consumers. o
r
DODGERSPIAYSQX1
IN FOURTH CONTEST
FOR CHAMPIONSHIP
National Leaguers Hopeful of
Tying Series for World Base
Dan i me.
CLEAR SKY AMD WARMER
WEATHER ATTRACT CROWD
Manager Robinson Confident of Ultimate
Result Now That Team Has
Struck Its Hitting Stride.
EBBETS FIELD. Brooklyn, ortomr
11.?Spurred on by Tuesday's victory,
the .Brooklyn Nationals resumed tin ir
counter charge against the Boston
Americans today in the fourth p;un?of
the world series in an attempt to
break down the lead that the ?,humpion
American Leaguers now hold by one
game.
"Our boys an batting :il last," said
Manager Wilbert Itohinson of t!.?Krooklyns
this afternoon, just b?-for?
having a war council with his metbefore
the contest. "We are a ba ting
team. We have looked over all tinned
Sox pitchers xcept Leonard and
we wow know what to expect. I'll
agree Boston has some fine hurl rs.
hut my men feci that they can beat
them."
The Bostons regard yesterday's defeat
as notning inor. th. n vnat migt.t
be expected to happen s-nmcwiicc
along the course oi seven-game
"The Red .Sox play best in a pinch,
remarked Jack Bu. ry. the disab.e.i seconu
baseman of tne Bostons. * v\? haiv
the faye and will hold it. 10very ono
knows what the dub has done whe:i i:
faced a critical series or a single game."
Fans Unmindful of Cold.
Brooklyn did not mind the eold *eattae-.*
today. Elated by yesterday's defeat oL"
the Red Sox the enthusiast i<* crowd thai
came early to th< livid would hu'-u le'-comfortable
on an iceberg.
The crack of the Brooklyn bats that
toppled over the Bostons was still
echoing over Ebbets Field this morning
when the spectators began to
gather- and the crowd was in high
numor over the day's prospects for
another win over the red-hosed players
from Boston. The temporary stand ;
deep left was the first to till, while tins
reserved stands and J>oxes remain* ;l
half vacant until an hour before the
call of plav.
Not a cloud flecked tlte sky and there
was enough autumn haxe to kill the
high sky That proved so troublesome
to outfielders playing the sun Held, it
grew warm or toward game time.
Brooklyns More Confident.
Hope not unt inged with confidence
was the i?revailing sentiment in the
Brooklyn camn as the preparations fot
play went forward. I'ndismayed by
their defeats on single-run margins in
the two clashes on Braves' Field Robin
son s men Juki folio into yesterday".-;
encounter determined to j?ut the margin
of! their side. Kv th?* judicious ami
vigorous use of their hats they had
achieved just that result.
Today they went into tin* struggle
with the fueling that they oould do it
again. They apparently ijad found
themselves, for not only had the.
swung their bats n? good effect, but had
stead i ?*d their fielding play. giving their
pitcher.- faultless support. \. iiiie shov ing
all arouml good judgment in ti:<
fie id and at bat and on the bases.
From .the Itoston viewpoint, however,
the situation was virtually ; > satisfactory
as before the Red .Sox defeat or
yesierda; . For although there had beer
some Juo that <"arrig; r?'s men would
clean up the .-Ties without suffering :t
levers*, one gam* on the Rrooklyn sice
!" the account ha.- been freely figured
with in speculation as to tin* outcome
of the struggle. There was no loss ?.?!
confidence by the Red-hosed playerthemselves
or by their Hock of adherents
in the trust worthiness of lie;;
machine or inability of the men to
make the superiority they felt as a ba
bail unit, count with due effect in lie
long run.
Coombs Given Praise.
t'omment on tie* features of yesterday's
game played a leading part in
the talk of tin* probable outcome of
the day's encounter. There was boll
praise and siaypatn. for th* Vetera!
Jack Coomb^ who skillfully held the
present world champions ;.t Iny for liv.
innings, only to feel hiniseif stjppin.g
and to ask shortly l'terwa:*' that. f<_?
in. -...mi ..i in. i.-iin. m- ?- -11 -\ .
Ivan Olson unit? another I'nookiynit.
who figured as heio because of L11 -
rashing three-be gger lie contributed
in yesterdays tiflli inning. giving tin*
Superbas a lca<l which dually proved
sutlicient to in for them. tieor^
Autshaw, toc?. had. in the opinion ot
i i; - fans, atoned for his rather erratic
work in the Boston sanies by proving
man in : pinch and chasing; uiiothe
jf tin Brooklyn runs over the plate
jv a slashing single. And Jak* h:iu
)ert. hitiess in those same games als??
found himself reinstated in tin ver>
?ood graces of the Brooklyn base ball
lobulation through his stick work of
,*e.sterda>. all the more because the
fruits of his longest drive had b? en
ost through a close decision at th
late, at which the local rooters wei>
mt slow to express their disapproval
The Boston luminaries had not as a rul
hone with their oust-unary luster in theinosi
recent at.p *urance. but one of then.,
it least?Third Baseman Barry (iardne
?had joined tin- home-run clan, while
>oth Shorten ami Hoop r had shown tin it
.rowess %vith tin- slick and compelled relewed
admiration for the effectiveness of
he upiK'r half of the Boston batting order.
Five Pitchers Available.
Because of the ,i nexpecteduess o:
;ome of the previous managerial moves,
here was much doubt before game
inu as to 111? probable pitching selecions.
Manager Carrigan had soniehing
of a list to choose from. It in?
luded Leonard and Shore, with Foster,
ated as a good cool-weather pitcher.
u>t necessarily scratched because of
he three innings of good box work,
hrough whicn he breezed yesterday,
'he probabilities seemed to point to
ihorc if the weather remained cool, as
i seemed likely to. and to Leonard if
L warmed up a bit.
For the Brooklyn* Manager Hobinon
was expected to pick between Cheey
and Marquard. figuring, in the case
f ihe latter, that he would be good
or a victory befor-- the home crowd
nd with the kind of support that th
lobins gave Coomt^ and 1'fefiVr an 1
hat their friends expected them t ?
how during the remainder of the seies
now that they have proved themelves
able to go through a game withut
a case of rattles.
