THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair and continued cool to-day; to-morrow
fair and warmer; shifting winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 545 lowest, 39.
Detailed weather, mall mid marine reports on pars 10.
IT SHINES FOP ALL
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 41.
NEW YORK, WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1916. Copyright, I91C, bu the Sun Printing and PuMIiMsej Antoctalton.
ONE CENT
In (Jreatrr New Ynrk
Jersey Clljr nncl Nrwark
I Lew here
TU It CKNTfl.
Jstm.
BROOKLYN WI N S I
FROM BOSTON
IN THIRD GAME
First Contest at Ebbets
"Field Gives Locals Vic
tory by 1 to 3.
ATTENDANCE FIGURES
FALL BELOW 22,000
Prevalence of Vacant Seats
in Tart Attributed to
Cold Weatber.
OLSON'S BATTING BIG
FACTOR IX Sl'CCESS
Hakes a Timely Three Base
Hit Pfeffer Relieves
Coombs.
11. -,.i ...i... it.. -.il th tir..uivn ' clothing. Shn coolly called on surround
Ricks,! against the wall, the Br.mkljn nc ,owni ,( Tllc nro wa, ,
Nationals yeiterdsy afternoon fought the In08t congested section of the town.
w.th all the intensity of their being and The Jainesburc telephone exchange I
taunted effectiveness of attack and , !s located on the second floor over the
.. w 1 Bennett store. Miss Matthewa had Just I
irlumj.ntci. ...... finished her task of getting uld when I
With two defeats already charged tn whole loe- floor of the building
tcjlr.n them and a third tnreaiciung uursi into names. Then, with her rloth
thclr extinction In th series with the 0 blase she made her way to tho
Boston American, for world's baseball B)mm thf
mpremacy, the huirbas roe to heights , W(.r destroyed and others damaged by
ef rower thst had so often lifted them ) water. The darrwae la estimated at 120.-
out of perlodi of ndverslty ilurtng their
penrunt fliht. The Hed Sox snarled and
inaiiped. Always In the rear, th"
prec1 us advantage eluding their grasp,
uVy orgsnlied a series of counter nt-
ticks Hut etlll left them a run behind .
their rivals. The score was 4 to 3. j t.olen Datn .Iftep .or. 7.
Thfre was glory enough for nil thn ( WasittNaros. O-t. 10. Indications
fjp?rb., yet their success was tlnsed ar" "ow that the rr.ler.tl Trado Com
.... ,UUU Returning from , Si'Thn.r.nfl
the nuievolent atmospnere of Uraves naP,.r and pnsolene until after election.
F!tM to their own Ebbeta Field In
ritt)u.i. the Brooklyn players were 1
....... ... , .,k..in. ft.,, Mui
ireeteii ny a gatherln? that numt)ered
nny thouKinda ehort of the cipecteU
ittrr.Ainre. t than 22,000 persons
eitertsl the stadium.
litre and there long rows of vacant
Jt jssr-
.luu." ii
" '.V.r ""
isilitr aU-ninrant that the saps wr
mit numerous tn the tlrt-t seven rows
ef the upper stand, where the prices hod
btcn raised to IS. ' I
Weather la Too Cold.
Not in many oars hud a world's
arlrs same played under clear skies at-.
tr.aid so few ectoton. In lloston.
where the novelty of the occuslon and
ilw- enthusiasm had woni off In four I
world's series In (lve year, the tlrst
;u,t!c in Saturday had brought out!
Si.i'fO, and the eevoral, on Monday, bad
V n witnessed by ntarly tl.000. The
iii ...ii.- n i.-i.i.i pii.'.rf iurf u.en
ii v, !e.l-but evidently not by the ma-
ji'rlty of lwseb.'ill followers
if'il.e fa-is'' bl.w cold, the wind and
wratli.M blew colder. It was a day
b'ir mud for a bin football game than
i bjMjhall conlt St. The thermometer at ,
time, legtsterrd lielow 50 degrees, while
northvieM wind blew ucroks the field,
...... . . . . . . ... ,
sm.titM u uoie tune inrougn me mw.itob-- ,in., v....r... .u
StreVrs and made the concrete stands flclals. ,
.bout as comfortable as a refrl&erator. The raid was the ollmu of the contro
It ni'.Rht lme been the weather tliat i vcrsy between City Hall olllclals and th
kty. some of the fans away.
As a hi.ebsll exhibition the game was
in intensely Interesting affair, but for
rtmark.iblc plays suffered by comparison
ith the Unit two tilts. Ah a Hx'tacle
It. ewnt f.tt f.l. IvInW sxlWL-tatlOtlS. !
"tic lloyal itootvra of botli urooaiyn
tril Ilns'.oii. aided by several brass
bird.;, exerted grciit effort to m.iko ad
,'acenl tirtltoty realize thfl moment ol'
tie o-.cati.on und. In part, succeeded.
Coombs I'areed to Hetlre.
Thn game was tishored In with the
promise of another pitch-rs' battle, but
ctvtlope.l Into a match of batting power 1
In which the Hupcrbas far iratdld the
Ittd Sox, For five Innings John Wealey
Coombt, the veteran Ilrooklyn pitcher,
taking inrt In the sixth world's series
contest of his long and Illustrious career,
h.u i. n.... ..... . i , m,,.
it m i ,i i ii .' . n..b v.i- nn 1
a) to victory Neither was Carl Maya
he of the underhand delivery who
tU'ted for Iln.ton, able to last under the
lavh of the ilrooklyn attack.
For live innings Coombs forced the
ft1 Sor. to accept nothing except
cl.hers while his team mates piled up
a ler.-l of four runs. For Ave Innings
tl't old skill and cunning of the veteran,
r.fi .ml there relieved hy a hhow of
liter poed. held the American Leaguers
to fair hits Then In the sixth Inning
Cjon.hs found his power to deceive de
frtlr.jr him. The Hed Sox obtained a
t'lpl a single ami .i pass for two runs.
The veteran was faltering p: taps to a
full
In the seventh Inning Larry Gardner,
Jltbtrlo In the .series a rather Impotent
J f r Hftd the ball over the right
Mid 'a aM for a home run and Coombs
as impitsHfi with the advisability of
traniferr'nir the burden to younger
Shoulder. Edward Pfeffer, the gtalwart
rlsht bander who had played so big a
role in thn Superbaa' winning the pen
tiar.t, was warming up In the outer con
Ones of the diamond.
Pfeffer Halts Red Nog.
There was a hurried consultation at
"i pitchers' box, Wllbcrt Hobinaon,
niannner of the Kucrbas, was appar
'"'ly fllllr:? to have Coombs continue
Mt the veteran best knew his wn
rotvlltlon and his own capabilities. A
'ran big n heart and wisdom of tho
fl.anmnd, r(imbs declined tha flattery of
m ssociHie. He retired and himself
itr,lle, f0r vttncr ta fnmt , an(1
kf up ,hi tHik of ih,ppjn what
tf; to prove a Hoston tidal wave.
i rt rfr succeeded even beyond th
iw lnulne "OP'S of his warmest
Prorlers. Ho succeeded so Impres-
i. . 'i' ' ,h" ,wo m" ,vh0 him
,,i;, ,ov,nt" Inning weie retired In
Wick suc-esso and In each of the next
Caittiit.f Fourteenth Page.
f
wow VoRsj
80 Ter Cent, of Employees Sny
Wilson Ignored Them To
Ask Congress's Aid.
CrlfiMoo, Oct. 10. nohert T. Frtrsicr.
Jr., of Nashville, Tenn., chairman of 'he
empioyoes so per cent, movement, be
gan mailing hi report to-day to the tn 1
per rent, of railway employee not In-1
eluded In tho provisions of the Adamson
eight hour law, I
Mr. Frailer and P. W. Watden went to j
Washington whon tho brotherhood heads I
nnd railway presidents met there and i
attempted to hnvo the unorganized cm-1
ployees Included In the provisions of any
law that might be rasped. The report
luiiurn 10 ooinin n nearmg neiore
the President at that time or since.
"We are now preparing petitions a?fc
Ing Congress to Investigate the entire
subject of railway hours and comrxsna
tlon." raid Sir. Frailer. 'The Adamson
law simply rained tho wages of the
hltfheftt nald etftll nf rntlu-ne- imntni'..i.
We, the SO per cent out fide the brother- 1
noons, certainly are opposed to any ad
vanres to these men If they mitigate
against advances to the lower paid cm
ployees. In a Word. If there Is to lw
legislation on the subject of compensa
tion, we want It to cover the whole field
IMirjjr mm e'luuaoiy.
PHONE GIRL FIRE HEROINE,
Ulrica In Post Culling Aid t'ntll '
llrr Clot hen Mara. (
N'r.w IIkl'Nswick. Oct. 10. Mlaa netle
Matthews nf Jatnesburg stuck at her
switchboard this morning, although I
flames from .1 fire In the big dryifoods
store of I j. T. Hennett A Hons on Hall-1
road avenue, Jatnesburg, scorched her
Mite Matthows 1 the heroine of 1
thr ,ow'1-
ursrtOTs . I
lwo AtJrORTa ARE WITHHELD. .
" "
r Trade- rommlulnn Paip an.t
Publisher throughout tho country fori
"om ,l,nc believed the Investigation and I
report of the commlsflon would afford
h .. . . . . . . .,.
they arc paying for their whlto piper. I
it is said the report Is completed, but ,
no explanation is maue to me puuusner
hv it t. e...t nm) ,.ni,ii,v it t imt. .
mated by representatives of the publUh
r
Hl,d that the commission will no: make It
t wnnewnsu- ior tne wikt mitKers
public until after the election.
The report on the gasolene Investiga
tion Is also very much overdue. This re
port v.'im to hsve ben made public by
A'JCUl.t 1.
CHICAGO'S MAYOR IS RAIDED.
Anll-Vler lletecllvea Also .search
Police t'hlef'a Office. ,
ClIlCAO.'J Oct. 10. Aimed wilh sub-
p."en. HUthotlzliig search and seizure de-i
tectlves from State's Attorney llayne'a
oftlcc to-d.iy condiictid a specta-ulcr raid
n the oltlce.t of Mayor William Hale.
Thompson. i-hl-r or Police iiraley and
M. I.. C. Funkhotiser. deputy supertn-
tendent of police, nd appropriated nles
cf correspondence to determine If vice.
nnd gambling have existed here with the'
i i ..i .... ............ . ,i,. . i . .. .. '
K tale's Attorney, In which Hoyne hus
charged that open gamhllng flourished,
saloons were allowed to violate tho Hun-
day closing oidlnnce and that vicious
tesorts were gaining headway with tho
MtintwinAi r.f trv.il , -.1 1 1 l-l n 11 r. I
FOR HIGHWAY 1-4 MILE WIDE.
j Woman Advocates I.aVea to Rnlf
1 Road Unlit by Cons-Iota.
Hl'iTALO, Oct. 10. A plan to build
'y convict l.inor a. l.ooo mile '
rom the great lakes to tho Ou If of
jirjeieu nun uuiiuieu uy Mt)n Gillian
Ktuart of St. Iuls at the Congress of
tlii American Prison Association. She
asked the association to give 1200 to the
work.
I no ieiau wuuui lie a uuuncr
The road would be a quarter of a mile
wide and would be a model highway
with a centrnwiy for an automobile
speedway nnd aldo roads for local traf
fic straight for hundred mile stretches.
Its bulldlnr would bo a huge step In
solving unemployment, poverty and
crime, she said, and when built would
be of Immense value to the middle West.
ARMS CO. LAYS OFF 1,000 MEN.
Ilemlnalnn Cuts Ita Forces at the
Illon Plaat.
I'tica, N. V., Oct. 10. It was an
nounced to-day that due tn a reorganiza
tion of the working force about 1,000
employees of the Hemlngton Arms Com
pany at Illon have been laid off. It la
also rumored that the company shortly j
will dispense with tho services of Its,
entire night rorce.
Tho Hemlngton compnny early In the
European war secured extensive small
arm contracts und trebled the sls-.o of Its
Illon plant, recently employing more
than ,000 skilled hands. It Is under
stood work on these contracts has not
been proceeding as rapidly as the com
pany's facilities made possible nnd that
a general reorganization of the com
pany's working fore Is the result.
Potato Trnat Conrlrtcsd.
1V.3T0M. Oct, 10. Flvo officers uf tho
Aroostook (Maine) Potato Shippers As
sociation wero to-day found guilty under
tire Sherman act of conspiracy In re
straint of trade. They are Carl C. King
of Caribou, Ms., president of the asso
ciation; John M. Hovey or Mars Hill,
Ms., secretary; Clarence II. Powers of
Mspls Orove, Me., members nf a so
called listing commltteo; Kdwnrd II,
Doyle, New Vork agent, and H. W. By.
lester, Boston agent. Sentence was de
ferred. Desrsj' "-uperUc rest Wtae, ft a Battle,
Our moat nourishing, blnml. miking win.
Ill rultea 81, H, V l'Uou, 0tl Cert.
-UIVi
-s- peace pledge
BY JAPAN'S PREMIER.
, ;
No Aggressive Steps If Inter-1
csts and Dignity Arc Not ;
Infringed.
MESSAOE TO AMKHICA !
"We Have Every Itans'ou toBovent Villngc nndl'nrt of Ah
C'lievish Friendship mid ,
Cooperation." !
rwii'i, J9U, bv Me AiwiuM rttm. i
TtiKio, Oct. 10. The feors of sec-
tlon of the Japanese public which have
found nn echo In tho United States and
China, that the comlmt Into power of
the new Ministry may be tantamount and west outskirts of lh village of
to war, wero discussed frankly to-day by ( AMalncourt and also took tho gre.iler
tho Premier, Count Slkl Terauchl, In part of the rhautnc wood. Iteildes
giving to tho Associated Press the tlrst ' thus gaining ground, they took 1,200
statement he has made In regard to the prisoners, according to the ollklal state
foreign policy of his admlnl.tr.itlor. t ment issued here to-nlKht.
The Premier govs expression In a son-i While the blow was sudden It was not
tenco to tlm spirit which he declared unexpected. Those who read the olllclal
would animate his dealings with oUiee communication of Monday nleht noted
nations. It was tho nt.eerllii that
Japan should not take any aggressive
step toward tho United States or any
omer country "so long lis japun s vital
Interests and dignity are not Infringed." I
"Any Idea Hint T shall 'wave the '
sword' while 1 am Prim Minister of
Japan Is based on a false comprehension
uuii wie d-ipaiirso .ii.rr. u ...iu .urn
Its hopes and Ideals for the future,"
rnp tlm future. Iih
raid.
,,... ..... .
Itriaias Military Uniform.
The dramatic summons to the Premier-j
ship of Klcld Marshal Terauchl. Japan's
dominating military flgure. has excited
n discussion ov.-rsiiadowed ly no single
event In modem Japanese hlrtory. In
View of tho worldwide Int. rest In the
.i....i.... - ... 1.1. .i
?, rTtt Z ,
Premier, who hu. long had lhi irputa-
tlon of taciturnity, consented to break
his silence mid give lo the world througb
the AMK-lated Press a general Idea of
his purposes and pollclis. During tho In-
tervlew he citivrrti'd readily In hrench
and then In Japanese. j
The Fltld Marshal wore the gray unj.'
lonn 01 ma ruiiR. ins utiu arm. rnni-
tered by a bullet In the Malgo rebellion
of U77, hung poerles by his side. Ills
rugged face, stern In repose, relaxed
mil, i.,,,,, 1- pp ,iv run,
n il in- .nir,i,.iii i.vuiMc- mac nij
earnest and constant endeavor shall bi
to promote the friendly ties which have
bound Japan and America for half a
'"u'r.
Caea Jtot as Mllltarlat.
. ... ..
i our people Know my aammisiraiivB
record In Coroa. Becnute I am n sue ,
cessful soMler. slir.tl that prevent niy '
hnln n ,,rii.l..iit Mlillslee ,.r Htate- Km'
- -
-'V" , ,.. f
who V. see'klng 'the la" tlni 1n,ereMs"f ,
my people, not us a militarist seeing
glorification by the sword "
for 'the' TtrriloT'ln N";' Vc.k wilh
Unroll F.iknt.ml, who was quoted as say-1
Inr thut the iepnl nf American laws
regarded by the Japanese as discrimi
natory ngalnM them was a matter of
"Justice and necessity." He declared
emphatically thut us Premier he would
undeitnke no new steps In regard to the
so-called American problems, including
Immigration. In this respect, he said,
be would follow closely th policies of
tho outsold Cabinet,
( orunion lle.llu Willi China.
"What will be Japan's pulley towaid
China;" the correspondent asked.
"As tho Ministry was crganlzid ou'v
yesterday I hr.v.i not dlsiused China
with niy asaoclates," he r plied. "How-
ever, rpeaklng generally, Japan's ambl-1
tlon Is to hac China benefit, like Japan,
from the fruits of world civilization nnd
world lirogrcs The Japanese and Chl
nase people have t-prung from tlm sumo
.lock. Our future destiny Is a common
destiny that Is historically Involved."
Though he WeS unable to dwell on a
detailed programme, the Premier con
tinued, ho could alllrm thut Amci lea's
Interests III China would 'm hai Hied In'
mi wise by Japan, which had no Intention
of violating China's soveidcnty or pie.
venting Interested nations from having
equal opportunities.
"Peorls talk of closing the door." he
said. "That Is a complele non poisumus. ,
An loin? ns Janaii'M vital Interests '
uud dignity are not Infringed Jup.nt will ruder the tinny appropriation act ap.
take no aRRrerslvc step ugulnit any Proved August il'.i deeiiditit fiimllleM of
nation, especially America." "I nillltlanien and regulars eif Ills'
Lulled States army urn to receive (Irian
la Ronnil in llrr Allies. I cl.ll aid. The amount to bu paid in each
"Will the Japanese nlllance with Hus
sla be the basis of policy In the Orlcntr'
ha was asked.
"Japan, true to her obligations,
naturally will be bound In her futuie
policies oy ner alliance wiiii iirrai
i sriiaio nnu jvusii, un resioiiueu. nue
tnai uocs not imply aiaiega u ot losier-1
ine- nmltv with others notable- America ' ""oe-i sue eno miiuia oc .-atloiuil I Mrs. (lerard. a dailghlei of Marcus
" fiends, lp "and WS U , '"la v"? ami June" I ""i?" ,h, Mn,""l "'"IV f"
hnvr oveiv leaam to cherish The em. . , ' . " 1 J"" 1 "rt en- smiles, too. especially when the chair-
p re face', a si Sn "nu A tli ma'els I m tef'sM, h rs'"..: 'Iv' ThP ff"" V, ""'V "IT?"",
strenuoiiH and unified e-xertlons to pio-' t t S tlX 1 LW' XJrJ L !
cure reforms of the nat onal life, to to ,lln f , ' . r
nourish the btrenmh of her resource.. mUBt be mRdl( , ,h , ' V,',,";'
and to place the nation on an u..shak.;tor Ilt tvashlngtou, q
abln foundation of a secure and lasting
....... It, ll... Cnal IVn. ........ 1 "
efforts abroad should be to maintain '
faith with foreign Powers and to hoi
strictly fair and upright. Jnpin's prog-.
res. as a woild Power, which la Inovl-
table, must be marked with prudence und I
caution, eeticdally In the period of world
crisis.'" '
Xo UralKUs on PhlHiiplnes.
VI,. D..M.I.. ual.l 1. u.u. ., n 1 1 1, .1 IU...I
ot more nctlve participation In the war
by Japun. xllo ridiculed slieplcions thul '
Japan had des'gns ill regard to the j
Philippine!!, saying that If unv Power 1
were to be thcro hn wa.t glad ll should"
be America,
Conceiiiliig tho contention thst the i
Cabinet was reactionary and that lis
creation was ooposcd to the liahta of thei
lieopls the Premier said with military
brevity; "My appointment la in exact
accordance with lbs provisions of thn
Japanese Constitution."
"Not revolutionary, not aggressive, not
militaristic, but constructive that Is my
progiamnio," declared tlm Premier In
conclusion.
Absconder (lets J to -I Years.
IMward C. Kindred, who was nsslstunt
cashier of Hootli t Fllnn, subway con
tractors, and who got away with n
122,119 payroll a year ago, was sen
tenced tn from two to four years In
Sing Sing )eHterday by Judge Wiulhams.
Kindred hnd pleaded guilty, Thn pollco
recovered an aulomobllu and other prop,
erty valued at $7,000.
;newfrehchdriye
POCKETS CHAULNES
Advance on Five Kilometer
Front Aids Kffort to Cut I
Off rcronne.
1.200 PKISOXEltS TAKEN
lnliiconi't Captured in 1
Sudden Bush. j
Ptuts, Oct. 10. The Flench troops
made ndmlrabln sains tn.duy. Shifting
tho weight (,f the offensive suddenly to
the Kouth of the Homme Hlvcr. they
captured the village of Movent, the north
ti slgnlilcint paragraph which stated
that the artillery action had been lively
and that the derm. in reply hud been
nilsii, p.irtlcw.iiiy in the region soutn-.
west of llurleux and In the regions of
Belloy nt
Belloy nnd Deniecourt."
fierman lleslstanee Fralllraa,
... , ,,.,.,.,. , ,,.. .., 1
, . . r
...n...... ..... ........
of what It meant, replying wltli a curtain
... .1 ... . I I.... 11. .... ... ...... ....
ducing Shells In tle sector of Deniecourt-
T.ihons. Hut their resistance nas of no
avail.
When the French commander. Judged
the thousands of pounds of metal had
blasted away the German defend sys-
tern with alt the terrible cumpleteiiess of
which modern artlll.rv In eiinahle the
aMm , trSn'EK
" " . ... .
in 1 it,, intini, , .... r . i v.i.i. i i
, and the Infantrv went forward with d.tsh
and mrit. .inlnW their .iM.iu- ,.-rk- -iti
and nilrit, doing their deadly work with
thoroughness Their path hus paved m
well that they pressed on far beyond th.
Intended goal.
The grmind ga'ned Is In Itself consld-
eralile, as gains are counted lu modern
trench warfare, but the expected results
to follow art. much more Importani. To-
nays gain unilKlllen n recessive curve
In the French line north of fhaulne, and
drho a new salient Into th. Oermsn
lines south of Hiaulnee. These altera-
Hi'im ill .lie u.iua iiur .UKriiifr UUllllt II .
mi: iiiiiuh iiii i.uihi- noin to wie norm
and the south. In all probability, there-1
fore. Chaulne. will fall a did Comblcs.
caught In a pocket and raked by fire
fr0,'" ,.r'd"- ..
the Important xlllage both to the north
" " V 'lie larger
, plan of campaign, which has for Its oh-
lectlve the coulure'of Peronne. tcwilav'.
- . Koniethln- tsann irin.in.
fll' .'""Ji1" 2??u' i1.!!! .
"". . "T ,JT"7,, ' ,Tnwi, iT!?
",e '" north. 1 eronnc has
' '
I
M,t Official lienor,
iih riit.ii iteport.
following 'nrsVmi: nf Z '7mZ'
North of the Somme there was great
artillery activity on both sldts. A stir
pils attack south of Sallty-S.illltsel
brought us fifty prlsonera, two of them
orllcers.
Boulh of the Fommo wn attacked on
a front of tle kilometers between
Ilerny en Sinlerre and Chnulnes. t)ur
infantry vigorously carried the enemy
position wnleh was their objective
and went he) oral It an appreciable
d.stance at Ccrluin points. The ham-
let of Hm. the northern and west-
em oiicklrtis of Ablalt.court and tho
greater part of Chauln-s Wood wem
mptured.
Thf enemy sustained considerable i
loxses, iiotatuy around Ablalr.enurt.
Twelve hundred prlsorers were token. (
On the remainder or the front there
Is nothing to report.
U. S. AIDS AIL ITS SOLDIERS.
. ....... . . .
annua snu i-iaiianurarra
Ileiieflt hy Array Hill. ,
,...,. . . 1
tt 1rt
v-' ' .i.riuj
thousand Chilians who attended military
training camps this vear will reeetva a
refund of tho amount ptl,' 'or trans-
porlatlon and subslsienco while n inp
" mii.ing application lo the auditor of
l"o ur i'rporimeni. inis wiih un-
Pounced by Secretary linker to-day
case win not exceed 50 a month and Is
computed on the amount which tho sol
dler was contributing to the support of
i Ii , frtl""y w1"" lr ntcred the service,
Only the wife, children and dependent
I mothers of tho soldiers sro conslebjred
their f.inilllvH.
me iiiiniii.-H or nil enlisted men whe
wrTV mhcril of m,,m. ... v-atinimi
i!luo lftUUr ttbVALL DATE.
C'nrrai.sn'. t l.lef of Mlaff li.al.t. n
. .. "la on
in.meenair Aarenn.-nt.
1 San Antonio, Tex.. Oct. 10 Col
;n.,rrgan. chief' of .! I Crnw.
miu iiiii iv nil nci wnioni tn with.
draw American ro . . from ev ,',
must be signed, und a dellnlle da... for
nurn.ii must ue set. beroi.- any
"u"'r MUesllons iiffectlng Mexico cm .,
ucce.y.ruly taken up by the Mexican.
AtwT.cuii eommtHslon at Atlantic City,
. ' "V Harnigan will accompany ITH-e-e,
Arredondo, Mexican Ambassador Deslg-
"a,n ,0 fh United Slates, to Washing.
'n" to-night, The latter has been ron-
"criing wiin e.arranz:i,
COW AUCTIONED FOR $6,150.
Charles I,, A, Whitney Neta World'a
II r cord for n (iurriiap).
Nobtu nssTOM, Mass., Oct, 10. The
"row that Jumped over the moon" did
not achieve the heights of fame nmoni;
dairy farmers Kiilned to.diy by Iins
water Dairymuld, u Uiierusoy of purest
blood,
She Is the highest priced Uuernncy
cow In t lie world, having sold nt auction
under Ihn bidding of wenltliy farnieis
from all parts of the lounlry for i',5ii.
Charles I,. A. Whitney of Albany, N. V
was the buyer, F, Uithrop Ames of
North lC.iston the former owner.
u. S. REFUSES ENTENTE'S DEMAND;
WILL NOT EXCLUDE U-BOAT RAIDERS;
GERARD HERE, SILENT ON MISSION
Ambassador. It Is Believed,
Will Announce Renewal
of r-Itoat War.
SHATTERS ALL TALK
OF PEACE PROPOSALS!
i
DodiUVS 3.000 A IHPl'lOiHIS
Now in Teuton Empire
Are "Living Happily."
FOOD PLENTIFFL. BIT
l' ICfit L'VL' lw C'l'lDlM.'
.'.OV'iil. 11 JO ov.lllt.j.
.
KVOV. IlOVallV WclOOMPd,
to See President Wihon
in Few Days.
Theie w.it r.o doubt In tlm nilmls of '
tn,. milliy tprvleweis wlm went down I
,ne ,,a' ',ll' y'rl-y morning to meet
James W. Uerard. Ambassador to CJer-
many from the United states, who was
m.iklne hl firs, vl.lt tn merlei nlnre
'"f 'n ,n Americ.i snue
war ,,cKan, that the Ambasailnr
had coin" home to tell President Wilson,
.1...,..- .h.. 1.
'? ' - " '
n 1 .
nwut to if nt w Milm m riiic varfuii'.
, , 1
Thla Idea was not iiirirmed by Amhas-,
""a '"rn v,a" n"1 nm'meu iy .innas-,
sailor Oerard. but when th iUoti
direct wan put to him he did not deny
! ,, , , , , . 1
He n''y iffU'd to be quoted pro
or con on tne matiii. nut ror lot or
reasons the Intel viewers were convinced
tnat ,llc rIlownl oI mnaIl ub. .
miriin narfire 1111 liliinlnc uhleh I
-ciforth Imnas cross the ho, m
wVl, b? the chief tonic of conversation
w in the Preside ,? and .Cmlsaiw
.1.,.. ..I
ni. ntivlnilH nnestlni n tn liithr nr
not Mr
' V oenn", luco dims before Pre.!
int Wilson as of course one r,f tli.
,Hrsmel;t.oI,rput VlrJ
nhvicnis
nnce .... Minors reeentlnn rm.filtl.i
I I . - ,w- . ! ., j I
. . . .iiiiH.niitr in.'iirn in-
rnnainavian American liner freueriK
VIII. and had taken him aboard tlm
Pnnrc miti Patrol tn escoit the AmlM
Mr, ,j.ri1 , ,
i-otts nt Itnuiors of I'ence.
j He came nearest to a dltect stntement
'when hn spurred at the t.otmn that hi.
y W
posal. He had heard nothing of pro
osa!s of eaee, lie said, wheieupon thn
questiun of la" It't.enal of the I'-boat
destruction of shipping was brought tip.
"An AnilkiMiad'ir never Is quoted'" Mr,
rl.r.1 l.n.1 ...I.I ...1.1. . I ,. I
-mile when the peace piopo.als quVstioti
had lien asked , hut a moment later Ids
v.uet.lo:i grew more tetmus when th
it.tet viewers thrtlMf Into hi. Iinr.il. ivitii,
0f a newspaper cot.tainlnc an account
of tho alleged icasone for the Ambus-
sudor's visit.
The chl. f reason listed In the article,
was that Ambassador Herald had come
honu to tell President w IIhiii that, de-
lBP, cieimhii nroini.es made after the
Sus.ev note, the uno-.iinr e.-mmr in i:.,.
mar.y for a lenewnl nf the Vun Tlipitz
methods of wartaru was about to brliii
1. lsIs ft'. I
i n v.u niriuim.-i
1 "Vou will not llnd me quoled on any
such subject," was Ambassador Oetard's
i only t-oniuieiit on the articles, which hud
... .... . . ...... .. ..
cuieiiy in uii wiin inn una thai no Is
hen- to tell the President about a n-
xlvi f mhmarlne nctlvltle.. ji,.
skimmed over tho article rspldlv with
I I.......1 1.. .1 i i . ...
skimmed over tho article rspldlv with
iiucki-rt-d brows ami th n handt-d tio
i'""i,-,i en'... .inn iii'ii o.iiiui-i ine;
new-.ii itier i.irL lellhmil rnrlln.e ,.,.i.l-
His statement, "Vou will not llnd me
quoted on an) such subject," hud been
made In-fore he had mi much ns chuned
at the headlines of the newspaper aiti.
tIe.
....
nrrr in set l in- "imru erlr..--
"Do you know the woilil series game, i 1 '''" suhiiiailiu- vvarf:iro nn ieiM'iigcr ' ,hl PUs'f a-'eits, "will result In a com
aie onT'' some ono broke in facetiously. , 'hips and mcrcli.itilmcn e-.iiiuoi be iar- l"hilM- between thn Hermin Chancellor
"Ye-.," utwuered Mr. lloriird polenitily, "'"d on without great Jeiqiardy to hit-' aiu' his opponents In tho Helchstag,"
"That's the reason I ve eume homo." ".an lite, even with cateful oliiei vauce I
Tlieie were a whole, lot of gray hairs
In vldeiico about the Ambassador
Herald of jesterday whom newspijier
men last nnd seen as a very Pluck haired
supreme Coutt Justice Heiard. Hut thn
1 twenty-slv months of haul work which
have kept the Ambassador's nose to thn
grliidstoiii! since the war began hivo not I
hurt his health or clouded his grins.
Mrs. Herard, a daughlei of Marcus
pllmenis 'of the committee,
"These ure the first American Henntles
1 I've seen for moiei than three .vein..,"
cried Mrs. f.ernrd with evident delight.
' l ne ciimiiiitiee u iii ino ros. .. ,,ot io
mention the interviewers had to Ret
' T7,?'V!.r ,u!!u,l7. ,'K'
,., n,d,.r to ureet th . Amba.-adivr
aim Mrs, e.craru eiown ti e nay. J "ic
, o". , ' V , ,7 '"" ",rlK1'
I !! '
1 . . . .
l,V n,T" Knt J'"' '' VPry
J "".,v nUf'' "" "M "ruy
dnwn.
Nolntiles .tlret I mlmsandor.
The heroes who did gel up before
daylight In order to be tit Pier A on
time should be listed, They wero headed,
nf ccuiire', by Chairman Straus, who was
one of the first to arrive ut tho pier.
And boarding the boat finally wilh Mr.
Straus were ex-Ambassador Henry
Mnrgctithnu, Dock Commissioner It. A
C, Smith, Charles H. Alexander, who
had enmc In from Tuxedo on om" un
earthly Frle nlnlit owl train ; Pig Hill
William II, IMwarils. William M, Sea
bin y. I,ouls Wilcv. Hodfrey Onhlmark,
Frederick J. Mlddb brook, Samuel M.
Lindsay, Hobert IV Dowllng, Howard
T.i) lor, I'.aii W. Ncuhoff. Dr. Willy
Meyer, Assistant United States Treasurer
Martin Vogel. Call I.. Scliurz nnd Will.
Inm Klein,
Dudley Field M.ilone, Colleclor of thn
Port nnd close Irlend of President Wll
son, nlso had got up before bcdtlmo
and had IsJiirdcd the Frederlk VIII,
frobl thn rutter even Poforu tho eom-
Contliiuret nil Second rage.
T
'. R. SA YS WILSON MADE U. 5.
AN ELOCUTIONARY OSTRICH
Holds President Responsible for Breakdown of Inter
! national Law, of Which Submarine Raids
Here, He Says,
Talilt g n. his text the Merman U-boat
raids off Nantucket. Col. Ilonsevctt Is-
sued a statement last evenlhtf holding
J President Wilson re.pun-llile for the
J breakdown of Inti rnatlonal Live of which
he sns the raids ate u result. The
statement says In part :
"Now the war hns btcn earned to our
1 very shores. There Is no American who
1 di-.s not realize the awful tragedy of
oiir iiiiiirr.Tenc.i and inuctlon. Nine-
minis ui wisdom U h-liiK' "ie In tlm
111 taking the riali 1. .. 1.1 .1 ,
time American milu. nm mi. 1 i....i.,.i.i,.
might have hem made .1 st-iblllitlng '
iui 1-1
'President wit.n... 1 i.t. ..1.
of i-spohslhll ty has bet-n clothed In " ,
mierly misleading pliraM-. th" phras '
of a coward-'he kept us o t of war' In
iciii-ii i.iiitt- u,. 1 ,
e.r r y 11 . ' r,v'-',lnf
frj in lu, beC-?."T?,J .V" "'a r,f V
irjiii Just beynnd our three milu Urn t.
A,,,l u f I, 1. -,t .
pose or preparation,
7.; . l, , "" "ar
"s' s-i'' nian can lo-day be so blind'
hu ten ent ihnt t'h ' wir w ..'",,,r "?in"1
SMiimeni hat II - war was no concern
of ours. -very thinking man mut real-
. ..,n.'.'.u,.".r fu,1"!" of a.t.iteniunsi!)i
. . i-mu powi or p nicy until such f,.cts as ,
Uti now stare It In face.
"Ill "lie of lii holes t.. lliujlainl, Presl-
, "...1... ........ .. '.' Vul. "Tnea
.J
uiimniy .ir.-uiinii mo uiuiesita t tiiL- chain.
puinsnip or neutral rlxhts. ltn.-h.ii
,, ., tt,.n,, ... ,1,1. ....
" """ . 't'""'"'" to thl- note thai
:" ,11 ' ti . .1 1 T
: " eiir
nmnnTT I 1TA riTITIT T Tin
M hKH ANII SHHI.I Hi)
01 Lll llftllU OiljjLLIjL'
BEFORE ALL GOT OFF.
i
. , ,
Of fifial UPportS OiVC Soi'IOUS
. . o. . ,
, A"l't to SillklllfiT of
I'lissoiifrcr Ship.
W..iti-MToN. Oft. 10. Ofilc'ii' re.
PJr'- r Urrl by the Navy Derailment
to-d.iv gave a serious n.p-fct to the
'rman I'-hoit's attnrkn the pns.enger
tcamer Slephano. nr.d Indicated that in
'nrtancM ,h" fUh'
heed to President Wllson'j warning that
l.i'Snl warfare of fills character mut
-eat... The S'.rphanu. according to
it.iteu.cnts nf passengers made publw
,a"'"' Mote
tIlfl Amnrlrans on board had tlir.e. to
k-aie th- sh'p.
,.
, !" ns and crew of the ship
"up communicated with the Nnxy Ia-.
part'iiem ,tatlng that thev wire fo-cu!
to abar.don the vessel "U,,der lira" from
' , , ' 1 1 r llrrt ,rom
"" t-upniarlne. The gral'tud- they , s.
I'1"'"""''" '" lh Ameitc.in llot.lla of de-
strikers and tn Cuininander llinr.ihan
J. ,' , ,!'"CI1 !i r,Br'led as
f, "l,lu -'ns,'i(iieiice In the light of
or le de.tro.ve:- Halcli ii regarded ns
tint circumstances they describe In con-
. , . . 7 - - -
"i"un llKlr rc"'.
"omeui itely after receipt of th!t- news
" ""houncid that the N.i D-p.ert-
mellt v. .ml. I ..?..I. .. .ii.i. ...... . ..
" uuuaiiis irom me
"''rs and crews of the other rseW
. ail.iej.eii. The- Stephano case will !,.-
lm ''"'t'-'t'd nnd i-ta;e nis from ti
' ia-ee!e. rs lllit.l !m,-.I Pi.. ...it.u ... t
'm"llw"" 'ta;e ills from th.;
' l':)'-'-,:ieTe rn olitahie-l. The news mi far
- . " " : - ...-.-. rw i,
rcecniil ban btcn forwarded tj Shadow
1.1 w II.
Tint other reports rone-ernlng t'n-
nitlhods etiiii! ijid hy the Herman t alder
"ei.i m-iu to Picsldent Wlls in witnioit
i tuiiiiui m. it i iielievi-d here tli.it the
nt anil N-fioi.irj I.riiielng hau
.iifi jimiIoh wh-.-li .'le.-n-i. ,t. ,.,...
or 11,1 r",,,s l.liut. Hans Hoso appears
,0 have followed In all llUt two e.meL
With the question of tho peril to which I
nuiiian uvea were exposed uppermost lu
the minds of officials, an alarming feat-!
' ur of tho da's developments wis the'
' lack of any tiding, from the crew of the
,i...
Kllltf.tiilllnn A.,.. ...II... ... ....... - .'
vices, the cirw wms can .uh-'rt in , t
hthl Lweithe
he n" by
deal ov. . b- vo
fo rthi i a il
"loots on the opi n sea willi thick weather
irvv,iiiiug miki wnii no
I.Ii-m ii I i.ltid Slate.
been scouring tlm se-as for
out avail
ll Is raid at theNavv IVnarltneiit timt
inn evKienco winch nnvnl offlcei. havo so
far gatheiul from survivors tlinvs many
hnlihtejdtli eseiipes and numerous In
slaiice. of the pluclnc of live-. n Imml-
nt.llt p(,r1, Tlll. Admin, str.itlon holds
. thut allowance, must he maile fur the e-
' cnK'WM ,vllt, Prevails among victims
0f siibniarlne attack under all clrcum-
i .,. and Ihat It will he neces.ai y to
I Investlgnte closely all stories before muli-
k;uiii MTiu.iiy.
The report from Newp
'l't Hose may ha
port that Unit -
no obtained his
Information cone
r-onccrntiiK Ilrlll-li shipping
an ag.Mit during his vis t o
from a Herman
.!... I. .. rh.. ..
Illlll IIHIUWI Hill 1-1- V 11 I l-l l 111 lllll--.ll-
...i I. i. ..ii .i.... ii .......
HosVhad Inrmanewnlng'H
shipping which It would hnvo been lm
i.ohsII.Ii. for him to obtain exeunt from
some well informed sourco at Newport.
MORE MAIL SEIZURES CHARGED.
Two liisfiiurra Clte-el b (lie- llanl.li
i.,.i...m.i..-.......i
Ukiu.in, by wlreiess to Sayville, Oct
10. The Dau'sh Pustmastpr-Hrner.il an
r,..", ',
m rv Of 1 1 e , lx .1.1. s?.,i ,! , ,,",rlch nm",,K nations least of nil can
" A f u ,,'I,M "" 1,1,5 w" she nfrnrd to be an elocutionary ostrich."
- 1- - rrr-r.- l "
nounces, says n despatch to the Overseas Wash inhtiin', Oct. in. Frost wnii pre
News Agency, thut thn Hrltlsh iiulliorl-; dieted by thn Weather Hureati for to.
ties at Kirkwall took from thn Norwe- night In nil fertlons east of (lie Miosis-glun-Amerlcaii
steamer Hergensfjord, ! slppl Itlver except the south por...ii - '
bound from New York for llergen, ihe south Atlantic State., and t... i v
(lilrty-elght msll bags addressed lo Den-; district.
mark, i
.. T.l";.r,"m"',"'",iiP,,";ra! "I"" ,1l,,clnrf,'
that tlio Hiitlsh olllclals had seized the,
..-inn. ,iii-i-i (iiiwi no le i)tiiiu siramsiiip
bound from the Falkl.vml Islands for Co.,
peithseen.
Are a Result.
from American port.- Ju-t sunk oulshlc
of our three mile limit by Merman sub-'
marines, two were neutrals one Nor-1
wpgltiii mid on Dutch. How Iihh Presl-1 CJiil-Snrr nf nv I J titili
dent Wilson's unhesitating champion-hip I OHIKIU l . Vllt I . C OlUl
of their rights rhown llslf'.' ' , ...... 1
"Morwiiver. putting their non-com- ItlUl'lllO- lV Mistake.
Imtant passengers mid crews In open
inwhoats In the October reas In In no . .
way to KUuraiitee tlu-lr safety,
"Hut the chief point that this makes t'r 1 Iirpo ji,' WI'I'T V I W
Is that the war and the great military J 11 ul 1
11 itions have come so rloc to us thai
our country Is no longer to be excused
" emluics Mr. Wilson's futility or
Inaction.
After three months of great effort
we have concemrateil on the Mexican
bolder a force Including practically all
.f """f0"", troops a our disposal.
lXn' ,.hcy "W n:',t,.ho,d ,hc!r ,".Tn
aTn!Y whl;h,n,ny on of ''-,
sreit inllltary Powers of Kurop or Asia '
could put In New York with n a fort-
or "' ITanclseo within 1.
montli
IIIUIIUI. .
. "Our navy is our. first nce,1nr.d. by
the way, all Americans should fel a 1
'i..mi ... ...1.1. 1 .. 1.1..1..1
nU!'v" hUt,i t,," ''"''
ron. Hut It is an unmanly folly to rtly
y the navy. N. Atnerlcnn ma.. Is
, tr) . c(zeii unless he l willing to
nt hlm.elf to do e-tlcleiit work for the'
country lu time of war. We need unlver-,
s.tl military tralnh-K of nil our young
men on the Swiss or Australian model.
' WnTa Ty Z
.nnrira is put .meric.i eannoi ni-
inni to 11111 ii. to tuny ine m or inc.
rv TimriTT nnnnn irinll
.111 III. M UUrl ANIIkV
' ) Ull I ilLiOkJ iHllUR I
AT U-BOAT'S RAID!
CuIN Siklff of WorameiUk
IMcsiil nnd licmnnds Full
n
CompCnSfltion.
i
J AMsTrs'iAM 1a London, O.i. 10.
The Dutch press . highly Indleiiaut nt;"1" probaDU hnv tin- .ipproval of
tl. sinking of the Holland-Amort, i line
steamer lllommersdljk, which It Is de-elan-d
was absolutely i!l(i;.il and c,n-
tr.iry to maritime law
"We ask with astonishment." pays the
VI) Mii I Hit iri firt'i, "what reason the
ubmarliio commimler could hav for
to-pijo-g a neutral o..e with ,i neu-
.W.f"7J ?JhV!T'aL?. !!,u
mist ike. for the command... of the sub -
mrine mus' hue been aware of the
haracter of the ese. and for that II-
'gal act ilerniany must b- inado to pay
t till compensation "
Thn ;fiiuli 'sW.f-f demand, that the
lovemment tei I u strong proten to thn
'! rm.m ilovernment
The Tcltjirnul regirds the raid ns "a
"P to the m Tlrpttzltes." and thinks
I. ,il probably the He na1- are bavin'
tlh-i siil-m.ir.ui . operate along the fringe
f Amer'r.m terrlti rial w:.teis to test the
extent of Aim-rh an patience,
The Holland-America line h.es re
eelvnl only a brief icport of tha lnltlng
of the H'mnmersdljlt. This report says
the submarine commander "Informed the
Hlomiiier..llJk's captain that he would
'.iik any ship bound by way of an I'ng
il.di port "
The value of the Itlommersd'Jk was In
tured against war tl.iks, but the grain
cargo for the Holland ilovernment was
no Insured, n. the ilovernment carries
11 own war risks.
The TIM says It Isarns from a trust-
.vnttli) Herman source that th" t'-boats
"'-oratlm,' In the Atlan'lo obtain their
supplies from large commercial subma
i rin" Mippiy veseis.
-The news or ihi. mlimnrlne enrf.ee
V(
I
NORWAY GETS APOLOGY.
,irr"1" Heurrla Torpedoing of
Slenim-r .sjoljst on April p.
i.i'ii, dvi, 1 1. eirriiiuuy oas noil
Ill ll N'orw.lV thut she r.-irlet. the tnr.
I'cdoing of the steamer SJohst. vclm-h
" AirT Awhile n b
n'dl to a Heutcr despatch fron
Christ.anl.i. tlermany declares her
'""" Pay full Indemi.l.y. This
.bus le.ulied from tho protest registered
, "'" s'""1 "" A,'r" ' wnl'f" ballast.
the Norwegian (lovernment
The Norwegian steamer SJol)st, S9
Ions, wa. sunk ivlthout warning on
April ! Ii) a Hernial! subtn.irli e olf th
I'reiicli coast noitliwest of llre-l. The
captain and row were rescued,
TWO SAIL FROM BALTIMORE.
Snntb Arurrlca
Sliliintnir lien llntlmlatle.
1 .,, ,.
. "-. ' erups aauea
, 'fT """ ,V!V tM I'nili.g ilesplle ac
" (5,'r"""' sqbmirlnes ! the
-1M ... ... , , -----
iin-3 un- ine- .biiMr.lllJ III l inn In
t.L .!!'n.J,h- W."
-tiirii.iiMII ft l
verklp. both ll)lng the Hrltll
bound for South Amerlcin iioits.
. " l: " " . "a"V"""9
si cm tu Irivn recovered from tlie first
i shock or ine sunmar tie warfain und mi-
1 shipping will s'oii lesunie normal run-
: '"WyX
se-ls ai loading cargoes here nnd their
agents say they will lenvo at. coon as
1 they havo loaded,
Frost In the Una! Prrdlrtrd.
ltn..al Itlne Line Personally Cnndncted
Tnur lo (lelt)sburg nnd Wiuhlngton.
Oci tl. nil exDinvis. Kj. I), mil. an
'r'0:..155.!- iti.l. CortUndl.
l" f . BWjra.
Surprise Expivssed That Al
lies Should Try to Fix
America's Course.
MEMO COUCHED IN
SHARP LANGUAGE
Warniii'r (liven Against
TO BE MAINTAINED
Nolo Leaves Government
Free to Change Decision
at Any Time.
WAFltt.s'OTO.v, 'lot. 10. Tho replj nf
On. t!nlted KtntAu til th. ttntent
Allies' contention that belligerent sub-
... ,
,lrj,rts' shouI'' fro'
lean water.-, roaiistcnds and hnrborn
e -i 1 j . .1 n , , 1 1 1 n ... . 1 . . u . , . r..., .. .
. . ... ....
"""" " "D 1"-
nient to-day.
I it is 11 lf-lerthin of Hi. vlstnnlnt nf
I I-testln, Oovcrnments and .
t ueciaranon that lots fjuvernment "re-
,. ... . ...... .
ecri-H us iiwriy or action in an re
spects" and will treat visiting sub-
marines In Its trjtlitlonul spirit of neu
trality. The American memorandum Is daltil
August .11 ami Is a tcply to tlm memo
randa of August from France,
Oroat llrltaln. Ittf-sia and Jupnn.
MtiliHiiiietitly Italy unci Portugal bent
Identic memuruinl.i and received th
same reply The American note mado
u,
I81;0.0,1 t?.t!,.?,(,prra"11 ai-nc
i ol the I .53 tvpo.
l The tone of tho American memoron
i ....... .v. iev, a mi- ii-uiper oi ipo au
mliil!rloii In it. r ontroversles with
' ''"t'-'iito Allit s ami ito phiaceolugy
German ryinpathlztro In tlio United
States.
F.iids With n Warning.
H Is without thn cUHtomary trim
mlngs of diplomatic corrc.iondenct
and ends with it warnlni; to the Kn-
tout,, Allies that t-icy will be held re
1 h lu 'f A",pric'1:' submarines are
i niirtnKfii for (.erman t' -boats by their
(.Tlllsers St.cn.. I!,.-,,..,, undnrs..
craft.
Thla Is In response to thn suggestion
from the Kntente that the piewnce of
German stibmarliien in American waters
or off the Atlantic cutis: would endanger
A'r.erlcan submarine operating there
owing to tie dllliciilt) In distinguishing
the belligerent from iii.. neutral sub
marine. The pos-ttlon which the t'nlted Rtstis
haa taken Is In dliect contrast to tho
position takert by other neutral nations
such as Spain, Norway, Sweden, Dm
mark. These nations acquiesced In the
contention of tho Kntente,
This was partly beeau-e they felt their
Interests had been so damaced by O-r-man
I'-bo.itd on the high seas through
the ruthless Ftibmailne warfare waged
by tlermany that these craft were be
)ond the pale of International law. But
the chief rravm was the desire of these
nations to protect tl.el- commerce from
the effect of vvarfaic wagel ut their
vory doors.
Foresee- erlnus llnmnge,
They realized that harboring belllger
ent submarlr.rs nn-ii.t !n! rating the
presence of !!iith nd French naval
forces sent to i-op.. with thee tnjata
and foresaw- serious damage to their
own Intere.ts unless thev )!elded. Den
mark excludes nil belligerent warships
from Its harbois.
The quetion I. n.iturallv raised aa to
the effe,'! the decUl.m of the United
Slate, w ill h.ice on meiic.iti Co l meres
and particularly on American coastwise
trade. If the wn. i ........ .i i.. ....
' " 'f .w"t.. wl" h,e l"0
! ',",n,rA!' . , ? ,;lrP,f" "
rbV h" " " ""
Z ,."',,T ,V, ' o,e P7"
I, );') in ine
pioMmlt) of the eoivt thp d.iT.age to
normous.
Is Intl-
her allies
special meas-
..... ,., . n,ui un- siuiiii.irinn menace
If It Is transferred tn American shores
and thst this means rlo.ing ordinary
steamship routes and geneially dlsrupt-
t ,11 piii cin lit,
Partlcuhr nttentbm Is rnlted to the
statement that this Hovcrnnient reserves
, to It'etf "complete llbertv of netlnn "
i in- men"-, it is K , ,at th" Tnlled
States nny at ntiy tim tn the future
adopt the Kntente Allies' point of view
Hut for the prevent tlie puller nf thn
Administration i ntma-entlv to' nppen
Ormany bv every legltinnie mean-, and
the memorandum Is In accordance with
this policy.
Text nf thi- lleiimrnndnm.
The text or the i,ot,i fol'o vs
"Tho Hnvcrnme-t f the 1'nlted Slates
hns ici-elved the ideni. nl memoranda of
the Onveinments nf France. (Jreat
HrHnln. Hus:i uud Japan, In which
ncutr.il fiovei-nmeui. re exhorted 'to
take etllciclous measure, tending tn pre
vent belligerent sm'miki ! es. regardless
of their use. to nv.VI themselves of licit
tr.il watei., ninl'te ul i an,) laibors,"
"These i"lnverriniciiM nop t out the
fHclllty possessed by -mil . aft lo avoid
supervision or surveillance or ile-terml-nation
of their nttlnn.il character and
their power io do Injuiy that s n.
heienl In their very inline,' as well oh
the "additional facilities' ifforded by
hnvins at ihtir disposal puces where
they can rest and replenish their sun
piles, "Apparently on there grounds the
allied Oovernments hold that 'submarluo
vessels must be excluded from the benefit
of tho rules heretofore accepted uivlor
International law regarding the admls.
tlon and sojourn of war and mei chant
iTaels ta nsutrat waters, roadttuuts W
