"Beatrice Fairfax"
A Full Page Feature of Love
and Adventure Each Sunday
\
A Business Guide
Real Estate and Court News
Daily in Times-Dispatch
6th YEAR
voiaimi; oo
\ t.uincii iisr.
RICHMOND, VA., WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1916.?TWENTY-FOUR PAfiF.S
\\y: \Tui:n py pf \ p
PPTPT7 TWO nTXTTC!
t Home, They Turn on Op
ponents, Wielding Deadly
Effective Bludgeon.
[NAKE DANCE OF FANS
LEADS OVER GROUNDS
piousands Throng to Field as
Last Out Insures Dodgers
4-to-3 Victory.
lonnvs MKN NEVKR 11 |>| ;[>
lloncuHll Flefcnsn ami .\rtiik>rvlikc
Clouting Batter Fighting
lied Sox Down:
?VMV YORK, October 10.? Firmly In
rcnched within their own grounds, the
| rook 1.vn Nationals turned upon the
loMon Americans to-day and wrested
llctory from the Red Sot by a score
If ? to 3 ln the third game ot the
I'orld'u series.
True to their predictions, the Super
ps. playing at I-Niliots's Field. proved
lir more formidable than when tinder
l>e spell of Boston's cold disdain
[wire deprived of victories after
Iirilllng battles at Braves' Field, thov
Inally arocc In thetr might this after
loon, and. with the plaudits of the
Ionic fans rinsing In their ears, they
lotted out a victory with savage
Jlgor, swinging their bludgeons with
|"c'h effectiveness that neither the
litchlng Starr nor the stonewall defenBO
If the Red Sox could hold them In
Iheek. Hits r;iriB ofT their bats with
le snap and dead lines.s of exploding
|hrapnel. and while the invad.rs m.-nh
determined resistance, they wero
jrced to bow to the superior playing
|f the wiiin^rH.
As ?? rrpuh of Hrooklyr r triumph.
Ihelr Fiipportrrs' joy and hopes reached
treat heights. and the victory was fol
l>u*ed by one of the most extraordi
l,,r> celebrations ever seen upon a
rorld's serifs buttle field. Hardly had
|l en n el clutched Lewis's towering Sly
the final out of the frame th it
|:iuiis;< of rooters came trooping ? ? t?
1' the diamond and out fields, where
Ihey appeared to be carried away with
1 ??? enthusiasm of conqucst
j\\,\S SWKICI* TO IIATTI.1C Kir.l.I);
J\.*ki-: iiam i; i\ crsinov siiowkk
Men and boys, with here and there
feminine companion, capered and
with Joy. while the bard
| err assembling for the march around
I ?,:t r ? With the first notes of
liarch music the fans formed in long
lines and once under way. began a !
larade that grew In enthusiasm and '
lumbers as it progressed, it wound 1
|:i and out. in Imitation r.f the college
Inake dance, while the more sedate of
Ihe spectators cheered and yelled,
?'lags and banners were hurled on to
Ihe field, followed by cane-seat rush
Ims. until the nlr war, filled with living
|l>Joets.
Across the field, the Itoyal Koote.s
If Boston, undaunted by defeat or by
Ihe thousands of their rivals, struck
JP the famous "Tcsslc" song and
parch, and soon the park was filled
?Ith parading battalions. After a
lumber of maneuvers, the adherents
If the two clubs met in mldfleld and,
lfter an Interchange of cheers, pood
laturedly bombarded cach other with
Inshlons.
The demonstration made up in part
lor the lack of tho thrilling features
l-hlch lifted the first two contests of
llie scries out of the rank of ordinary
laseball conflicts. There was missing
h tho third game the tenseness and
|ensatlonal Individual play which dom
nated the preceding clashes at Braves'
held.
UMPS INTO I-KA I)
RAIII.V I.N COXTKST
Brooklyn jumped into the lead early
In to-day's contest. and was never
leaded, although the Boston club crept
|p to within a run of tying the score
In the closing innings. Neither was
Ihe game marked by super-excellent
laseball, but Brooklyn won, and. with
Ihe hope that the team would repeat
lo-morrow. that was entirely sufllci
|nt for (heir supporters. In contrast
.ith the Boston games, that of tb-day
.?as played in cool, crisp weather, and
Ivercoats were necessary for comfort
|o the spectators in all but the sunny
^ft-field stands.
.I?i?*l; Coombs, already a veteran of
I wo world's series with the Phila
I Iphia Athletics, came In for un?
It.inied pruise both for his splendid
twirling in the early innings of the
fame. and Inter for his self-abnegation
In requesting to be relieved when he
Iflr himself slipping, and realized that j
lo remain In the box might entail de- j
|ent for his l'-amniatcs.
I'ntil the seventh inning Coombs
eld the lted Sox to six hits and two
Inns, luit when Larry Gardner lifted
Ihe ball over Ihe right field wall for
home run. Coombs realized that he.
?:is losing his cunning. Ills team
liates urged him to remain in tho
lame, but the Kennebunk. Me., hurler
l as firm in Ills determination, and was
Inally replaced by Pfeffer. who held
lie on e*-run lead Coombs had given
lini until the end. Boston being helir
jss and hltless before his delivery.
Carl Mays, the underhand twlrlor
. h-cted by .Manager Carrjgnn ??? hold
lie Superbas In chock, "was less for
tunate. for ihe Hoh'.nson clan foil upon
lis offerings with a freedom that they
l.id not displayed ngalnnt either Shore
Ir Ruth. They garnered seven hits
Ind four runs before TIenriksen went
It bat for bint In the sixth, and Foster
? placed him on the mound when the
lam took the field again. Fustier w.?i
leached for three hits, but Brooklyn
las unable to turn them Into runs.
II told, Brooklyn gol ten lilts for n
ital of fourteen bases, while Boston
(Continuation ~ isTghTi i ~"i'a g c .T ,
Insists on Withdrawal
of American Troops
MAN AXTOXIO, TKX.. October
JU.?Colonel Hnrrnjeun, clilrf of stall'
to Klrnt Ciilrf Carriinr.lt, kulil lu-ilujr
thai tin ?Krfniir nt to Hlllidrou
American trooin* from Ale.\lcn muNt
lir nIkhciI mill it ilrllnllc ilnle for
lllidrnviiil iniiht lie mi*t before (iij
oilier iiiicnIIoiin nlTrctlng Mcili-o can
In* nui'cemfiilly lliki'li n |> by the
*le\lcnil - A III IT I I'll II COIII llllMKhlll III
Atlniitle t.'ltj".
Colonel III! rrituun will iiceompitiiy
IOIIxcii \ trcilonilo. Mciiciiu nniliiiN
snilor-tleiiigiinle c(? tin* t nltril
State*. to WtiKlilnirfmi IT lie II the Int
(cr imMMrw lliroiiKli lirrr tii-lliglit on
llir return trip to liln pout lifter eiiii
Xerrlnp ullli t nrrnnxn.
ANOTHER MIGHTY BLOW
DELIVERED B) FRENCH
Iliey Strike at German .Lines ami
I'ress Them Itm-K on Front of
Two ami One-Half Miles.
VIM,.\r;K OF ItOVFXT ( APT! Iii:i>
Forh's Men Also in Outskirts of Ah
laim-ourt?They Brine is* 1.250
Prisoners?llotimaniaiis Still l{e
trcaiiiig Alone WJiole Lino.
LOXDON, ooiobct 10.?Tito French
troops lighting south of the Sotntne
reirion. in Franco. hnv? licm back Die
German lines considerably over front
of about two ami a half miles from
the village of Movent to the Chaulnes
wood, rapturing In the operation the
village of Movent, the north and west
outskirts of Ablaincourt and most of
the Chaulnes wood.
'.: M1 e .ntlvlty was shown ,>it th<>
fro,'t north of the Somm.
I? Transylvania the Germans jic
"loselv pressing the retreat inir Uoti
iiiaiiiant-, who continue to fall hack all
along the |j,.e Ilt tho ?uhtinir aloum,
Kronstadt 1.175 llouman.ans wre made
prisoner and twenty-live cannon. In
eluding thirteen heavy pieces, and
l.irK'- <iuantittes of amtiiuriition and
Ktoies were raptured.
Tlie ' iiiician village ?,f Iferbutow.
on the Xarnyuvka Itive.-. has been
stornied by the Germans, and to the
north, in Volhynia. the Russians have
been driven out of advanced positions
northwest of l.utsk
Along the Struma Itiver. southwest
??f Dcnilr-llissar. In Greek Macedonia,
the torcos ot the Teutonic"-powers have
evneuated the towns of Chavdar Mr. It
Ormnnli and llaznatar. Northwest of
>erc? the LSrttish have taken front the
Bulgarians ihe towns of Kalendta and
Ilotnondos. I'.erlin says that alone the
Gorna River. where the entente ;.lli<?
have been m a king progress, .ill at
tacks have been repulsed.
The usual artillery bombardments
are in propres* in the Austro-ltalian
theater.
4XOTIIKK MH.II'IA III.OU
AtiA INST l.i:it >l\\ I'ltO.XT
I'A it IS. October 10.?General Koch's
poiius to-day J'/ik k another mightv
blow against the (ierman front on the
Sornme. Attacking on a sector of three
miles south of t h ?.* river, between
l>eriiy-en-Santerte and Ohaulnes, the
French troops swept lorwan into th?
villages of Movent and Risleres. whl.-h
had been strongly fortified by the Toi
tons. and captured as well northu.st
of Ablaincourt -\ t he gt eater pan of
Chaulnes wood.
Tiie attack had hcen prepared for
several ilavf, :i continuous bombard
ment of large-caliber shells having
been poured into the German lines.
Tho Teutons had concentrated a large
number of cannon in this district, and
their reply at times was fully enual
in violence to the French tire. Hut
their defenses could not stand the
steady pounding, and when General
Foch sent his men forward to-day they
found their way so well prepared hv
shell fire that they were able to bring
in more than 1.250 prisoners
The blow south of the river was the
only actio-' of importance on the
.Sominc front to-day. although by a
sharp attack south of Saill.v-Saillisel
the French were able to take some
prisoners. The Rritish forces which
joined tin- French left wing in the
Morval sector were busy during the
day concentrating the pains of previ
ous days. They announce the addition
of 2rtS prisoners to those already listed
1-TVK .11 OKI*: VIM,AUKS
TAKIA in A I.I.I Kit -ritOOI'S
I'AltiS, October 10.?-?Five more vil
lages have been occupied by the allied
troops operating east of the Struma
River. Pressing1 the advantages previ
ously won, they have advanced against
weakening opposition, and have estab
lished themselves in Caviarmah. Or
nianli. llaznatar, Kalendra and llotn
ondos. The ltulgars, according to an
ifllcial statement, have fallen buck to
Ihe hills northwest of Seres.
The French and Serbians at the west
of the Macedonian front also are mak
ing progress. The advance is proceed
ing in the face of stubborn opposition.
Monastir and Urllep have been bom
barded by allied aviators. The Ser
bians captured S10 prisoners north of
Cernso.
' >ER0ME TRAVERS TO WED
Former Open t.olf t'linmplon Obtain*
l.lcrnur to Alnrry Mis*
'lllTnny.
|Special to The Times-Dispatch.}
XKW YORK. October 10.?Jerome
Dunstan Travers. open golf champion
in 1015. to-day obtained a license to
marry Miss Moris Tiffany, of 126 Clare
nont Avenue. The bride-elect is a
laughter of Waller Ctjylet Tiffany, of
Kewhurg, X". V,. The wedding will take
ilace In the First Presbyterian f'hurch
it X'ewhurgh on Octoher I I. The noted
,'olfer gave his occupation to the mar
riage llccnso clerk as cotton broker.
?L * ' ' t' ' ' V
{COLD SNAP ADDS
! GM TO FAIR
Quicken Pacc of Events on Sec
ond Day of Virginia's Great
est Exposition.
'GIRL MAKES DARING FLIGHT
Diving Venuses Splash Gleefully
Into Ice Water While
Crowd Shivers.
; ' i*'*' ??d biting winds from th" west
land an early morning throat of rain
did not yesterday deter visitors from
( pomp to tli? State Fair Grounds. did
not Prevent tlio Six Water Lilies from
' Ice-cold water or kepn .Miss
1\at lierine Stinson. th- nineteen-vear
i old a via trice, from traveling through
I ho tiiifl:.. rtr-fl paths of the air. dipping,
with prono||f.r straight down, and
; ofipintr thr- loop with thin streams of
I Miiokv behind h?r.
? ii 'omparison with corresponding
? lays ..f other years, tlir second .lav's
attendance w;,h lar?r>, paid admissions
amounting to r: i -,,e,. tnoro ,han
i *'*' ,h" wond day of last year.
l-r?sld*>n Fairfax Harrison, who at
? tided Mio fair after the meeting of
I thr stockholders Of the Southern Tlail
?? ?>. expressed himself as being highly
Please,! With exhibits and attendance.
?nd said that he would v. an an
nouncement to mak? later. He referred
i" the fact that I lie paid admissions
t were numerically larger than usual.
and in this lie saw signs thai tli<> at
; tendance would increase day by day. i
J and that the total number of visitors!
j would compare favorably with any of
preceding years.
1)1 T-OF-TOW\ ATTKMIAM i:
WF.I.I. M? to STA \l> \ II t)
More county exhibits were brought
into the grounds yesterday. The farm I
products exhibited are larger in num. 1
? her and better in quality, it was !
stated, and the live stock, though not
j so numerically strong, is hotter in
, quality. ''I?? n?-?rnJ Manager W" C |
I Saunders, who until yesterday worked ?
with his: coat off. is equally as pleased ?
I wtth the number and quality of ox- !
j liibits. and pointed to the fact that
:h" attendance from outside 0f Rich- I
mond was of cncruus proportions. !
of main interest among the free at-!
tractions during the afternoon was the i
aerial ascension of Miss Katherlne j
?Stinson. the nineteen-year-old avia
trice, ul,o. de.spitV the chilly blasts '
j from the west, went up a thousand feet
j in he,- military biplane and executed'
the Ioop-the-loop with the nerve and
dash of a war aviator on the western
? front in France. Her feats were ob- '
? rVa,1'1". fr"m "s f:lr ap Eighth and '
Mroad Streets to the cast, and Ginter |
'ark to the north. It was over Ginter '
, J'ark that, with two trails of vellow
smoke behind her. she dipped and then
>wung head downward for the loop.
, Midway nnd all the exhibit buildings
I w. r. deserted when her biplane was
brought into the Held, and she was
introduced in front of the grand stand
announcer. Jack Driscoll.
? light of frame and below medium
height, she had not the appearance of
: one who would dare the untraveled
. paths of the air. But she leaped into
! her machine with a smile and chatted'
with bystanders and friends while the'
master mechanic for ten minutes tried j
I to warm up the engine and start the'
. propeller. Her machine rose from al- ,
"land VrCVf" in fr?,U ?f thc Bra?d 1
'the wsi , < a,P lan?s asainst j
I . wos?Utn wind. Within a feu!
:mmutes Miss stinson was a thousand:
'I'llO I > \ \ 11 v M A It VKI.
vr -"?I'v \ ri i.o r i
Hundred* of people downtown and"
'L-b s ' ( >rn SUburbs witnessed her
of -1 ,UaiVe,ed' With the grace
u i,L e?m,l,n Kun-8he dipped
fclidcd, and then, as thc throngs'
looi i ^ WUl1 beatin* hearts, she
looped the loop twice in succession.'
She came down from the east, edging
? way over light poles until she
landed almost in the exact spot from i
where she ascended, scattering police'
himI olhcials as she swung u, the
S round.
. Ulille Miss Stinson was it, the air
j i incess ulga and her polar bears were
? ?"forming an act in fr0nt of the
era ii (I stand. ?:,u mosst of the cvc# t
were Intel heavenward during the
two performances.
j .Ml the promised free attractions
\\ ere placed yesterday afternoon, pet-!
J forming between the races. The Four!
Daniels were creditable in their cast-i
M.g act and the Six Water Ulies were I
j graceful in their diving. R?t it was |
long before the diving horse would':
respond to the appeals of his mistress'
to t: i k e the plunge from a forty-foot I
j P.atform. Ile looked at the grand->.
stand crowd and whinnied in disgust !
.to his mistress. Twice he placed his i
; ore ? et oxer the inclined platform and
brought them back. Finally a negro!
was sent up from behind to urge him!
to take the leap. lie looked disdain- .
. ' V ?VC1 his ^boulder and paid no!,
. At last, in response to urgent j '
pleas from below, lie bowed his head
and p.un^ed outward and down. There
was a tremendous splash, but ho camc ? 1
up unharmed and unafraid. IJehind '?
hit.) dived two dogs, neither of which !
hesitated in the leap. Then a dlvUig '
u'i"I P>?n??d from a tlfty-foot platform j '
Ittto a pool in front of the grand stand, j '
and thc other acts followed in order '
It At I \ <; l',VI0.V|\S I'ltOVK
TO IIK OF II l<;ll <>ltl?i:it I (
I he h.u pess. running and steeple
chase races were of a high order, and
there were several exciting finishes,
t ecil A\ ilkinson, a colored jockey, rid
ing Whirlwind, owned by the Dixon
Brothers, came a cropper at the first
Ir.irille In the second turn and escaped
?iili a strained muscle in his right
' 1 c y/as treated li\' D:\ ?.?. V.
reeii. of the Virginia Hospital ambu
lance corps.
Throughout the morning and after
noon'crowds visited the exhibits and
wandered through the mazes of Midway
(Coititlnucd on Fifth FageT)
ABANDON SEARCH
FOR MISSING CREW
Destroyers Find No Trace of
Victims of Submarine
Raiders.
U-BOAT OFF TYBEE BAR?
Savannah Reports Presence of
Little Vessel of Unknown
Nationality.
NKW|m?rT. It. October I0.--Th?
search for the crew of the Kingstonian.
one c>f tlie vessels reported to have
been sunk bv i( submarine off Nan
tucket last Sunday, was abandoned to
night. and the twelve torpedo-hont
destroyers that have been tiifrascd in
this work were ordered to return tr.
port. I'or r 11?? last forty-eight hours
they have conducted their search sys
tematically within the /.one of the sub
marine's op'-rations. and it is believed
that any small boat drifting with a
shipwreck*- I crew would have been
sighted.
There is strong belief among ship
piny men that some merchantman
bound east picked nr? the missing crew
and proceeded on her voyage. Kven
if the rescuing steamer were cfjuiPP^d
with wireless and had the crew on
board, it might not be reported, it is
pointed out, as her commander might
fear to run the risk of disclosing his
position to a ilerman submarine.
The Kit. Estonian was last seen by
the officers and . rew of the Strathdene,
one t>f the ships destroyed by the Ger
man U-boat According to 'lie report
of Captain Wilson, of the Strathdene,
he and his crew witnessed the tor
pedoing of the Kiiitrstoniau after they
hud abandoned the.r <>\\ n vessel, but
ho ri irl not sight an; of the Kings
tonian's boats-.
O VICHTtll N r.ll I.IKKilOAT
ok \r.ssi:i, is found
A report s;ti,i have come by wire
less to-dav told of the finding by one
of the destroyers of an overturned life
boat belonging to the Kingstonian.
Naval ollicers here. however, later de
nied tlie story.
The announcement that Captain
Grotnesp. of lite Norwegian tank
steamer Christian Knudsen, reported to
the owners of his sliip in New York
to-day that he si.w three submarines,
aroused much interest among oflicers
of tlie destroyer flotilla here.
Rear-Admiral Austin M. Knight, com
mandant of the Narragansett Bay naval
station, said to-night that, notwith
standing the report of Captain Grot
ness, he still held to the belief that
only one submarine, tlie U-53, was
engaged in the operations off Nan
tucket. None of the destroyer officers
saw more than one U-boat, the admiral
said, although all the destroyers were
very close to some of the ships that
were torpedoed.
Rear-Admiral Knight suggested that
Captain Grotness mistook destroyers
speeding at a distance for submarines.
With the hulls totally below the
horizon, the admiral said, the* de
stroyers might present an appearance
similar to the undersea boats.
All the captains of ships whoso
crews were brought to this port, in
cluding Captain Grotness, were riues
tioned by the authorities on Monday,
and none of them reported at that time
having seen more than one submarine.
St im\ltl.\i: IS RKPOItTKI)
on-' coast M-.VH savannah
SAVANNAH. C.A., October ltt.?The
presence of a submarine of undeter
mined nationalit> off Tvbee Bar. below
Savannah, to-day was reported to local
custom-house officials and to the Brit
ish consul here, it was learned to
night. Officials at both the custom
house and consulate refused to say
where their information came from,
but stated that it was "entirely un
official." t
No American undersea boats are
known to be in these waters.
Several merchant ships of the en
tente allied nations are in port here,
and while officers of several of. them
acknowledged that they were "slow
in loading," all declared reports of sub
marine activities would not prevent
their departure.
It was reported in marine circles
her i to-night that tin navy-yard at
Charleston, S C.. had l>?-eii advised by
wireless of the presence a early as
Monday afternoon of a submarine off
Tvbee Bar. Custom-houSe officials and
those of the British consulate said
their information was that the sub
marine was off the bar this morning.
somi: Kxciii.i.Kvr iiiihm;
I'l.ACKS l'*OI? S I' IIM A It I \ US
Although the submarine was reported
several miles off the coast, the marine
men pointed out to-night that the
Lieorgla coast afforded several excel
lent places where an undersea craft
might seek shelter and a place of hid
ing. They mentioned Warsaw and
Dssahaw Sounds, two bodies of water
seldom frequented by other than pleas
ure craft. Krom either of these sounds
i small craft could proceed further in
land by the Wilmington River from
Warsaw and the Green and Ogeeehoe
Rivers from Ossabaw.
Information as to whether tlie nn
ilersea. boat, said to have been sighted,
was a merchant or war craft could
not be had. Marine men were ijuite
pertain that the vessel could not. have
L?cen the I'-.V: which wrought havoc
lo allied shipping off Nantucket light
ship last Sunday, as tlie vessel would
not have had time to gel this far south.
The U-?*>:< was last reported early
Sunday night and, since it is a good
500 miles by the shortest water route
Trom Nantucket to Tvbee. the U-53
?ould not have arrived off this coast
ibis tnornlnsr .->ven though driven at
llie fastest .speed of which her com
mander claimed y-h't 'v?s c;iojjble -
uighteon knots an hour.
Some marino observers suggested
that the submarine might be a supply)
ship for the war vessels, and that she i
(Continued on "Second Bagel) ~~
\ ? (
.No Spirit of Hostility i
! Toward This Country j
A c tua tes New Premier
!
' Teranchi Denies That He
! Will Wave Sword So
Long as Japan's Inter ~
? ests Are Respected.
i [Copyright. 19l?>. by Associated l'r<>w 1
j TOKYO. October 10.?The fenrs of a
section of the- Japanese public, which
] have found an echo In Iho I'niUil
! States find China. that th- coming into
powoi of i lu? ii** w* ministry may be
' tantamount to war. were discussed
'frankly to-day by Premier fount Seikl
; Teranchi, in giving to th?- Assm i.ited
' Press the first statement, lie has made
j i>t regard to the foreign policj of his
| administration. The Premier ga * c ex
I pression in a sentence to the spirit
j which lie declared would animate his
{dealings with other nations. It was
the assertion that Japan would not
! take any aggressive step toward the
United States or any other countrj ?
i long as Japan's vitol interests and
> dignity are not infringed."
i "Any idea that I shall 'wave the
! sword' while 1 am Prime Minister of
; Japan is based on a false comprehen
! sion of my career and a complete mis
! conception of the Japanese empire, its
, pasl. and its hopes and ideals for the
i future." he said.
HIS SIMMONS K VK VI'
IN ,IAI?ANKSK HISTORY
1 The dramatic summons to the pre
j micrship of Kield Marshal Ternuchi.
i Japan's dominating military figure, has
. excited a discussion overshadowed by
. no single ejvent in modern Japanese
j history. In view of the world-wide
interest in the signitlcance of his ap
i poinlnrmi and the misgivings it ap
parently has caused, the Premier, w o
; has long had the reputation of taci
turnity, consented to break his silence
, and give to the world through the
Associated Press a general idea of his
purposes and policies. During the in
I tervicw he conversed readily in French
' and then in Japanese.
The field marshal wore the gray uni
> form of his rank. His right arm,
shattered by a bullet in the Saigo re
bellion of 1S77. luing powerless by his
side. His rugged face, stern In repose,
relaxed with a smile as he said:
"Tell the American people that my
earnest and constant endeavor shall
be to promote the friendly ties which
have bound Japan and America for
half a century."
unci.INKS HKKPONSIIIIMTt
I"Oil INTKHVIEW IN NKW YOIIK
"You people know my administrative
rccord in Korea. Because 1 am a suc
cessful soldier, shall that prevent my
being a prudent minister of state? Say
it, repeat it. that I come as a.statesman
? who* is seeking the lasting interests of
' my people, not as a militarist seeking
j glorification by the sword."
I The Premier disclaimed i respotisi
I bility for the interview in New York
' with Baron Sukata.nl, who was quoted
j as saying that the repeal of American
I laws regarded by the Japanese as dis
I criminatory against them was a niut
| ter of "justice and necessity." He de
clared emphatically that, as Premier,
he would undertake no new steps in
regard to the so-called "American
problems." including immigration. In
this respect, he said, lie would follow
closely the policies of the outgoing
Cabinet
"What will l>e Japan's policy to
ward China".'" the correspondent asked.
"As the ministry was organized only
yesterday, I have not discussed China
with my associates," he replied.
"However, speaking generally, Japan's
ambition is to have China benefit, like
: Japan, from the fruits of world civili
| /.ation and world progress. The Jap
anese and Chinese people have sprung
I from the same stock. Our future dos
i tiny is a common destiny that is his
1 torically involved."
A MKHICA'S IVTKIIKSTS
I \ CHINA ItKSPKCTKI)
t Though he was unable to dwell on a
I detailed program, the Premier con
; tinued, h" could atlirm that America's J
interests in I'liina would be harmed ;
. in nowise h.v Japan, which had no in- j
( tention of violating China's sov
i ercignty or preventing interested na
tions from having equal opportunities.
, "People talk of closing the door," he
j said. "That is a complete non
i possum us.
' "So lon^ as Japan's vital inl< rests
. and digit it) are not infringed, Japan
I will take no aggressive step against
any nation, especially America."
j "Will the Japanese alliance -with
j Kussia he the basis of policy in the
j Orient'.' ' h" was asked.
"Japan, tiue to her obligations, nut
! tjrally will be bound in her future poli
cies by her alliances with Ureal P.rit
! tain ami lt-.us.sia." he responded, "but
thai does not imply disregard of fos
tering amity with others, notably '
) America, whose friendship and co-op
eration we have reason to cherish. The
empire faced a situation which tie- ?
mands strenuous and unified exertions'
! io secure reforms of the national life,
: to nourish I lie strength of her re
' sources itud to place the nation on an
. unshakable foundation of secure and
lasting peace in the Par Kasl. Our
supreme efforts abroad should be to
maintain faith with foreign powers and
lo be st ictlv fair and upright. Japan's
j progress as a world power, which is
! inevitable, must be marked with pru
! denco and caution, especially in the
I period of world crisis.'
I SKIvS NO I.IUI'.I.IIIOOll
OK Kt UT.ll I:? A < Tl v rrV |
' The 111 * in I e i' said In saw no likeli-,
hood of more itclive participation in
the war by Japan. lie i Idiculcd sup-,
! positions that Japan had designs In
i rotation to the Philippines, saying that j
I if any nation had to be their owner, '
| he was glud K was AmcricH.
Ambassador Gerard
Is as Silent as Sphinx
,\ K\V VDIIK, October lO.?James
W. Ainrrlrnn iinibnKNUdor to
(Irrinimf, upon IiIn nrrlvnl here to
day, drcllneil either to nfflrni or
deny published report* (lu<( he whh
rrtiirnliiK to the I'nlted Stnlm on
n penee iiiIhhIoii on beluilf nf tlir
l-bnperor of (>rrnijini.
Mr. (irrnrtl'n attention ?n* called
to n ilorjr which appeared till*
morning In llic New A ork Worltl to
the elVeet lliut Mn crrinn] wni to
Inform llir administration thnl u
rencMiil or nii limn rlne ncllvily in
lielnir considered by t.crmnny in a
innnner liImight threaten CJer
miin-Aiiierlciui relation*. Mr. tic
rnrd. nftrr quickly glnitcing through
tlii.H Hlorv. fiiilil:
"\on don't see inr <| noted any
where in It. do jimi f"
Mr. t.crnril said that lie did not
eipret ti> (tee President Wilson until
HfliT Ihr I'rolden t'* return from Ills
trip this neeli to Indianapolis.
NO GROUND DISCLOSED
FOB DRASTIC ACTION
Kvidence Lacking Thai Submarine
It aiders Have Violated Any
International l.nw.
CiKlt.MAXY MAY liK WAli.NKD
Wilson and Lansing Discuss Wisdom
nl' Pointing Out to Kerlin Danger
of Operating U-lloats So Close to
This Country's AYalers.
LoNG URA.VCII. X. J.. October in ?
President Wilson and Secretary of
State Lansing discussed in detail at
i Shadow Lawn to-night German sub
marine :i llacks on merchant men on
^ Sunday ofl' the New England coast.
; The conference lasted until late to
night, an<l will Im? eontinned to-mor
row morning.
li was indicated by otllcials to-day
; that facts so far collected through
: governmental agencies have disclosed
I no grounds for drastic action by the
, United States government because of
'the attacks themselves. No evidence
has been found that international law
was violated by the German submarine
or submarines. it was understood,
j however, that the President and Sec- ,
I retary Lansing discussed the wisdom
| of pointing out to Germany the in- 1
advisability of operating her subma-'
| rines in close proximity to the tcrri- !
j totial waters of the United Stales.
I Tlt A .VSI'lIlt ltl.\<; OK WA ItKAIt 10
IS KRAVlillT WITH IIAXtiKH
Administration ofllcirils took the po
sition that the transferring of subma
rine warfare so close to America's
shores was fraught with grave danger
because of the possibility of mistakes
being made by submarine commanders.
Reports that strong sentiment exists in
Germany for the resumption of sub- |
marine warfare on a broader scale i
caused some alarm among ollicials.
The announcement of Counselor j
Polk, of the State Department.* in j
Washington to-day that the United !
I States will refuse to accept the con- |
tention of the entente allies that nen- !
I trals should deny the use of their har
bors to all submarines was discussed
| by the President and the Secretary of
[ State.
In discussions of the submarine at
tacks on Sunday officials here referred i
to diplomatic correspondence between
the United States and England he- ,
ginning in 1011. in which the American
government protested against the pa- j
trolling of the American coast outside i
the three-mile limit by the warships.
I his was pointed to as providing n
precedent for protesting against the
proximity of German submarines to the
American const.
AIA \ OIM'OSI-: rowr
I'ATIIOI l?\ S| IMMItlMIs
\\ bile no formal announcement was
made, it was considered probable the
I nited States would take a position
with regard to German submarine op
erations similar to that assumed in 1
connection with the warships' .oast
pat rolling.
Secretary Lansing came to Long '
(?ranch at .> o'clock this afternoon, but
there was no discussion of the sub
marine question until S o'clock to
night, when dinner was finished. Then
the I'resWIent and Secretary Lansing
went into the entire finest ion In detail.
It was said at Shadow Lawn they
would confer until so late there was
no possibility of an announcement to
night. Secretary Lansing expects lo
return to \Y ashiucton to-morrow
morning.
Internal politics in Ucrmany in con- ?
nection with submarine warfare, on
which Ambassador Gerard is reported
to have brought Information from Mer
lin. caused much discussion among of
ficials here to-day. It was stated on :
the highest authority here a few days i
ago. however, that the American gov- i
eminent lias been hearing reports for
months that Germany was preparing'
to vndali Its promises, but that ii ;
would take no ofllcial notice of such
reports unless the\ were. borne out by!
actions.
Shortly before Secretar.x Lansing!
arrived here Jules ?lusserand. the I
French ambassador. conferred wilhj
President Wilson, chlelly on .Mexican |
?ilViirs. 1!?? said he canic to enlist the |
t.ipuori the I 'resident in obtaining;
the rc.scindiiw: of a decree issued b\ ,
the i 'a i ran/.a government, which l.a>
had the effect of "sequestering" about
JtiO.COO.>0i? of I'rench money invested
in two batiks in Mexico f'itv
Washington Refuses to Ac
cept Contention of Allies
That They Be Barred.
DECLINES TO BE BOUND
BY THEIR SUGGESTIONS
Surprised at Attempt to Deter
mine Rule of Action for
This Country.
AM.lKl) K M It A S S ! K S SII.KXT
Policy iiv to Itrrciil Haiti Mav li;oi?
on Provisions Taken
for Safely.
WASHINGTON. October 1? Kinal
decision on the policy of Die I'nited
States toward the U-boat raid off the
New England >"uast has narrowed down,
in the view of oMlcials here. to a con
sideration of whether proper provision
was made for tin- safety of persons
taken from the attacked vessels and
left at sea in small boats.
A statement of the farts has been
requested from the American naval
ofliccrs at Newport.
While the President and Secretary
I.atising were in conference at Long:
I'ranch to-day on the new aspects of
submarine warfare the State Depart
ment disclosed that the United States
would not accede to the contention of
the entente allies that 'all belligerent
submarines, whether war craft like the
I5rt or merchantmen like the Deutsch
land, should be denied access to neu
tral waters and neutral ports. Acting:
Secretary Polk announced that a reply
to the allies' memorandum on the sub
ject. declining to he bound by the sue
gested restrictions laid clown by the
allied governments, already had been
dispatched.
On the reports of the naval officers
and masters of ships sunk, many of
ficials believe, depends the policy of
the government. If they convince the
President that Germany's pledges have
not been complied with, the whole sub
marine controversy, officials expect,
will be thrown open again.
CONTIM K Til P. Ill VOI.lt V
OP AHSOI.ITP. SlliBXCB1
The allied embassies to-day con
tinued their policy of absolute silence.
No comment was made, on the State
Department's announcement that this
government h at I refused to acccde to
the allied contention regarding sub
marines in neutral waters. Every in
dication was that orders of secrecy
have been Issued from the entente
capitals.
The American memorandum on use
of neutral waters l>y belligerent sub
marines. the text of which was made'
public by the State Department to
night. declares the allies have failed
to show why such vessels should be
denied entrance to neutral ports, ami
no circumstances have been set forth
rendering tlie usual provisions of in
ternational law inapplicable to under
water craft. The United States re
serves complete liberty of action in
dealing with ijelliyerenl submarines.
The memorandum, originally sent to
I'rance. Orcat Britain. Russia and
Japan on August SI, in reply to their
identic memorandum of August 22. later
was also sent to Italy and Portugal.
While the allied communication was
published some time ago the American
reply was not given out until to-day,
when the recent U-boat activities
seemed to make a public statement of
the government's position imperative.
TEXT OP ME.MOH A X Dl'.ll
roit W A ltl?l-:i> ??'?? M.I.I MS
The t'-xt of the American m ???>t?ran
dum replying to that of the allle< ;:ov
onn> 'its regarding treatment of bel
1, submarines in neutral ports is
. .?vcrnnient of the United States
ha. ccived the Identic memoranda of
the governments of France, Great
P.ritnin. liussia and Japan, in which
neutral governments are exhorted "to
lake ellioaclotis measures tending to
prevent belligerent submarines. re
gardless of their use. to avail them
selves of neutral waters, roadsteads
ami harbors."' These. governments
point out the facility possessed b>
such craft to avoid such supervision
or .surveillance or determination of
their national character and their
power "to do injury that is inherent
in their very nature," as well as the
"additional facilities" afforded by hav
ing at their disposal places where they
can rest ami replenish their supplies.
\v\k\ i't>H ints or i? \.\i;i:it
?ro \i:i'i n\i. siim\niM-:>
Apparently on these grounds the
allied governments hold that "subma
rine vessels must be excluded from the
henotlt of the rules heretofore accepted
under international law regarding the
admis 'Ion and sojourn of war .and mer
chant vessels in neutral waters, road
stead's or harbors: any submarine of a
belligerent that once enters a neutral
harbor must be held there." and, there
fore. the allied governments "warn
neutral powers of the. great danger to
neutral submarines attending the navi
gation of waters visited by the. sub
marines of belligerents.
In reply the government of
United States must express u> surprise
that there appears to be an endeavor
of the allied powers to determine the
rule of net ion gov erning what they
regard as a "novel situation" in re
spect to the use of submarines in time
of war. and to enforce acceptance of
that rule, at least In part, by warning
neutral powers of the great danger to
their submarines In waters tint iiui.v
be visited bv bellig<r< nl :<;ibm;w i v k.
Iii the opinion of the gov < rnp.u ut of
the United States, the allied no went
hn\e not ?'\i forth any circumstances,
nor Is the government of the United
Stales at present aware of any cireufU"
