1 ti'
COMMENCED AUGUST 8, 1837.
ST. JOHNSBURY, VERMONT, WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1916.
VOL. LXXX, NO. 9 WHOLE NO. 4134.
Tte Berry-Ball Dry Goods Co.
What Kind Of Advertising
Do YOU Read?
We Advertise ONLY The Merchandise Of Value.
Ladies' Suits
Dark tones of Brown, Green, Plum, Bur
gundy, and Navy. Rich Velours, Broad
cloths and Velvets.
Some Fur Trimmed, others with Velvet
or Self Trimming.
Prices are moderate for Suits of such Style
and Quality.
S18.50, 20.00, 22.50, 25.00,
27.50, 30.00, 32.50, 35.00,
38.00, 40.00. 42.50, 45.00.
The Berry-Ball Bry Goods Co.
tin
AVI
M
V
.'ii
u
III
w Li:
I I . Awrr&gT
mm
MS
ST.JOHNSBURY. VT.
Two Things Necessary
There are two things necessary to acquire
a competence they are earning and saving.
Think how much depends upon having a
surplus fund and you will want to start one
now with us.
4 Interest Paid
Deposits made during the first 5 diys of any
month draw Interest from the 1st of that month.
A
fill'
m
m
I
-.'I
MASONIC DISTRICT MEETING.
Lodges of the 12th District to Meet
With Passumpsic Lodge Xext
Wednesday.
The annual meeting of the 12th
Masonic District will be held with
Pusumpsic Lodge. No. 2J, in Masonic
Temple, St. Johnsbury. Wednesday
afternoon and evening, Oct. 18, 191 S.
At 2.30 p. m., a Lodge of Master
Masons will be opened by the officers
of Passumpsic Lodge. No. 27. At
3.00 p. m., the officers of "Washburn
1,odge, No. 92, of Danville will occupy
the chair and exemplify the first sec
tion of the M. M. degree, and the
work will be reviewed by Grand Lec
turer L. Burton J one. A social hour
at 5.00 p. m.
Banquet at 6.15 served by the ladles
of Mystic Star Chapter, O. E. S.; 7.30
p. m., reception of Grand Lodge offi
cers; 8.00 p. m., officers of Crescent
Lodge. No. 66. of Lyndonvllle will
exemplify the second section of the
M. M. degree, and the work will be
reviewed by Grand Lecturer L. Bur
ton Jones.
Henry H. Ross, Grand Master Of
Masons of Vermont, and other Grand
Lodge officers will be present. The
meeting will be in charge of Fred H.
Dolloff. D. D. G. M. of the 12th Ma
sonic district.
A Masonic orchestra and quartet
will be In attendance. All Master
Masons in good standing are most
cordially invited to be present.
TEACHERS BARRED OUT
Can't Attend State Convention If In
fantile Paralysis Is In Their Town.
Brattleboro, Oct 10. Dr. H. D.
Holton, a member of the state board
of health, at the request of Dr. C. J I.
Dalton of Burlington, secretary, hat
notified school authorities in Brat
tleboro that no children in towns
where there is a case of infantile
paralysis will be allowed to attend th
Boys' and Girls' exposition in Bur
lington ana mat no teacners m-
schools in which cases have occurred
the past month will be allowed t
attend the state teachers' convention
in Burlington. His letter of notifica
tion is as follows:
Dear Sir: On account of the con
tinued prevalence of infantile paraly
sis in the state, it is neccessary to take
unusual precautions against the
spread of this disease. It is there
fore the ruling of the state board ot
health that no children from a town
in which there is now a case of in
fantile paralysis shall be allowed lo
attend the Boys' and Girls' exposition
in Burlington this week; also that
teachers of schools in which ca3o
have occurred during the past month
shall not be allowed to attend h&
teachers convention in Burlington.
FRATERNAL MEETINGS
PaaiMHlc Lde No. 27. F. A A. M.
Called communication Thursday evening
October 12, for work on the F. C. degree.
Regular Communication Thursday even
ing. November 9.
F W. Jackson, W. M.
Fiid H. Dollopf, Secretary.
Haaweil Royal Area Chapter, No. 11.
Stated Convocation Fridav evening, Octo
ber 13.
Raymond A. Pbabl, B. H.P.
Fiid G. Moore, Secretary.
Palestine Commandery, No. 5, K. T.
Stated Conclave Tuesday evening, Nov
ember 7.
Aithui G. Sphagub, Em. Commander
Bail I. Bvans, Recorder.
The JlDicDm of .Nat oral Science.
Open week days 913 A. M., 1 I P. M.
Sundays 2.30 to 5 P. M.
AU visitors welcomed.
St. Johnsbury Athenaeum.
UBKAKT KBADINO 1QOM ART G1LLB11
9 o'clock" to 9 o'clock each week day, Wed
nesday evenings excepted.
3 o'clock to 5 o'clock Sundays.
All are invited.
LOCAL NOTICES
(Notices will be inserted in this
column in reading matter type at the
rate of ten cents a line for the firs
Insertion and five cents a line for sub
sequent insertions of the same copy.)
Searchlight Sale will be October 27.
Address By Mr. Shane Leslie on "The
Irish Question."
The North Church Woman's asso
ciation will serve one of their famous
chicken pie dinners on Friday eve
ning at 6.30, tickets 35 cts. each.
Following the dinner Mr. Shane Lesliw
has consented to give an address on
"The Irish Question," with the com
plexities of which he is intimately in
formed. The public is cordially in
vited to the dinner and address.
North church chicken pie supper
Orders taken for hand embroidery
and crocheted work of all kinds.
Colonial braided rugs, samples at
Editha's hat shop. Mrs. F. B. Hurd,
Mclndoe Falls, Vt.
I have moved my office from my
house to the Merchants bank block.
Office hours 10 A. M. to 12 M., 1.30
P. M. to 4 P. M. Dr. T. R. Stiles.
Get a box of Almon's Cold Tablets
at Searles' drug store and cure your
cold. Only 25 cents.
Fairbanks Coffee, sold by A. H.
Gleason, 73 Main street.
If you need a monument or any
lettering done in cemetery write or
call 534M. J. E. .Walker.
CHEERS PRECEDE'
ROYAL WELCOME
. : T
Biggest Crowd Ever Out In St. Johnsbury Re-echoes
Greetings As Co. D. Makes Way Up Eastern Avenue
To The Athenaeum Where Frank H. Brooks Delivered
A Strong Address In Appreciation Of The Sacrifices
The Men Had Made To Serve Their Country
WOMAN DIES
IN RUNAWAY
Mrs. G. A. Sulham Almost In
stantly Killed In Fall From Wag
on Near Hardwick
DAUGHTERTHROVN OUT
But Is Unconscious For But a Short
Time Comes to To Find Her
Mother Dead in Middle of Road
Trainmen of II. & W. Go to
Her Assistance.
(Special to The Caledonian.)
Hardwick, Oct. 10. Tuesday aft
ernoon at about 2.30 o'clock Mrs. G.
A. Sulham of West Woodbury was
almost instantly killed by being
thrown from her carriage near the
foot of Buffalo Hill, and her daugh
er, Mrs. H. O. Dodge, rendered un
conscious by a similar fall.
Mrs. Sulham and Mrs. Dodge, who
are both well known here, were driv
ing to this village from their home in
West Woodbury. When they had
reached a point near the foot of Buf
falo Hill some part of the harness
broke and before Mrs. Dodge, .who
was driving, could control the horse
it was running away.
Mrs. Sulham attempted to get the
reins from her daughter and botn
ladies were thrown out of the wag
on. Mrs. Dodge was rendered un
conscious for some little time ana
when she revived she found hei
mother dead in the middle of the
road. She called for help and H. &
W. trainmen went to her assistance.
Physicians were summoned and
the body of Mrs. Sulham removed to
the Davis undertaking rooms in thii
city.
BAND, G. A. R OTHERS IN LINE
Company Makes Fine Appearance And Shows Effects Of Martial
Training On The Border Major Tinker Responds To Address Of
Welcome In Which He Thanked The People Of St. Johnsbury For
' The Grand Reception Given The Company On Its Return And The
Thoughtfulness Shown While The Men Were On The Border
BANQUET TO
COMPANY
D
Company D arrived in St. Johnsbury from Fort Ethan Allen at
6.45 Saturday night. It was a sunburned, wind-tanned but perfectly
conditioned company of men, who gleefully climbed out of the special
as it pulled into the station. Cheer after cheer arose as they stepped
into the dense crowd that lined the station platform, cheers that were
echoed and re-echoed by the thousands that lined the approach to the
station, and extended up Eastern avenue. -
The first short greeting was slight compared with the outburst of
cheers and applause that greeted them as in double file they marched
from the depot platform into full view of the crowd massed on Eastern
avenue and Railroad street and to' where the veterans of the Grand
Army or the Republic, together with other uniformed companies,
the Knights Templars, "Canton Crescents, I. O. O. F., Foresters, and
Red Men were in line ready to escort them to the Athenaeum where
they were welcomed in an address by Frank H. Brooks.
Lead by the St. Johnsbury band, and preceded by the escort, the
company showed results of the training received at the border in the
fine martial appearance made as they swung up Eastern avenue.
From those getting as near to the line --of march as was possible so as
to call a word of welcome to some friend or loved one in the company,
to those on the outskirts of the crowd, and scores of others who filled
the windows on the line of march, all joined heartily in the greeting.
Seldom has St. Johnsbury seen at
large a crowd as congested the
streets during the arrival and wel
come of Co. D. Not only did th
townspeople turn out almost as a
whole, but hundreds from the sur-
i
rounding towns and communities
drove in, in scores of teams and au
tomobiles. Lowest estimates place the num
ber as 3,000, while others who have
been in positions to judge, place it
much higher, between five and six.
thousand.
The dense mass of numanity that
packed the streets from the depot up
Eastern avenue was not broken until
near the corner of Pearl street. Ex
tending eaoti way from the corner ot
Eastern .avenue and Railroad street,
the people were crowded for hun
dreds of feet, while many more were
gathered along the line of march. A
crowd occupied the slightly higher
ground on Railroad street park,
while others used the windows of tht
buildings' along the line of march as
a vantage spot from which to watch
the parade. There was no place at
any point on Eastern avenue but thai
was peopled with watchers as the
parade went past, and on Courthouse
square the entire bank was covered
with waiters who were there with the
expectation of being near to thi
Athenaeum where the formal wel
come was made.
At the Athenaeum
A brilliant picture was made as the
parade reached the corner of East
ern avenue and Main street. Th
band in a circle under the big"' light
continued to play, as the ' Knights
Templars and Red Men lined up
across and facing down Main street,
have won for you at the front.
four going was a promise, a hope,
an ideal. Your return witnesses an
actual transfer of the same into faith,
ful performance and fact.
Mr. Brooks' Welcome.
Major Tinker, Captain Wilcox and
Members of Company D; mem
bers of that glorious band, thw
Grand Army of the Republic, m
countrymen:
It was an honor and pleasure to
bid you farewell and God speed on
your errand in response to your coun
try's call. It is a greater honor ana
a far pleasanter task in the name ol
the citizens of St. Johnsbury and
Lyndonville to bid you. welcome, and
extend congratulations upon the faith
ful and efficient fulfillment of the
task you were called upon to per
form. The heart-beats of many a father
mother, wife and child are thumping
almost to the breaking point awaiting
the personal welcome to the homes
and dear ones so precious to all of
you. It , ill becomes this splendia
concourse of friends and admirers,
and the one speaking for them, to
delay the glad return to your homes
These' homes will not have lifted
from them the shadow of uncertainty
and suspense that since your depart
ure hovered about them.
Thank God you return an unbrok
en band in number. Disease has not
successfully attacked you. You re
turn stronger and sturdier, and bet
ter fitted than ever to meet the grave
responsibilities of your calling a3
soldiers of the republic. Gratitude
for all these is in the hearts of all
that the controlling factors of your
destiny have safeguarded you from
More Than 200 Representative
Men Of The Town At Compli
mentary Dinner Given In Masonic
Hall
GEN. TILLOTSQN SPEAKS
In Place of Gov. Gates Capt. Wilcox
Given Great. Ovation When Called
Upon to Speak Kllsha May
and Ex-Governor Ide
Respond.
Hearty good fellowship reigned
supreme at the complimentary ban
quet tendered to Company D last
night by the citizens of St. Johnsbury.
The banqueting hall in Masonic Tem
ple was filled with over two hundred
representative men of the town.
These together with the company,
after a bounteous menu had been
served, listened to some of the best
post-prandial speaking ever heard -n
St. Johnsbury.' Governor Gates, wno
was unable to be present, had an able
representative of the state in Gen
eral L. S. Tillotson of St. Albans.
Captain Wilcox of Company D when
called upon was greeted with a bursi
of applause that lasted several min
utes. The banqueters rose to their
feet and gave three cheers and a
tiger for the veterans of the Grand
Army of the Republic present, and
as Elisha May, who was''' introduced
by Toastmaster A. S. Stone, as the
representative of the veterans arose,
he was greeted by another prolonged
outburst of applause. Ex-Gov. Henry
C. Ide of St. Johnstmry gave an in
teresting address on the conditions in
the Philippines at the time of hi
governorship there. Other interest
ing speakers were: Major Melville
of St. Albans, surgeon major of the
First Vermont regime r.t; Major Wat
son of St. Albans; Chaplain Paul D.
Moody, Capt. Henry W. Ellis . ani
Roger Williams of Cuba.
" A concert was rendered by the
band from the St. Gabriel's parochial
school on the terrace in front of th
Masonic Temple, while waiting the
word to march into the banquet'
hall. When the word was given the
members of Company D took their
places at the central tables, leaving
an unoccupied chair between them
which was later occupied by a civil
ian, a plan which successfully scat
tered the boys and made an interest
ing feature of the program.
President C. E. Peck of the Com
mercial club called the banquet to
order and Rev. Alfred P. Grint ol
St. Andrew's Episcopal church asked
the blessing.
Major Watson of St. Albans spoke
of the chaotic condition into which
the war and executive departments of
the nation were plunged In working
under the new law and said: "Per
haps many reasons for the vexatious
delays as occurred could be given."
He urged a strong co-operation with
General Tillotson in work of increas
ing the state organization during
the next five years.
One of the most interesting
speeches of the occasion was by Sur
geon. Major Melville of St. Albans,
who was in charge of the sanitary
department of the regiment. He
spoke of how the "war against pre
ventable disease had been won and
the efficient work done by the sani
tary corps of the regiment. He told
of the examination of food, lectures
on cleanliness which were strictly
enforced, and which were delivered
three times a week. In closing he
said: "The fact that you have all
these men around you tonight is
proof suffiicent as to whether the
medical department of the Vermont
National guard fell down or not"
Captain Wilcox, after receiving a
prolonged applause made a short
speech of thanks in behalf of Com
pany. D for the things done to. wel
come the company; also the atten
tion given them while at the border,
and the care taken of the families at
home.
Chaplain Moody spoke of his dis
appointment at not being able to b
with the boys at the border, and
spoke of Vermont troops as being tho
first at the bolder where at one time
they guarded 83 miles of the line. A
letter was read by Chaplain Moody
from Col. Reeves In wliich he com
mended the work of Company D at
Eagle Pass, and also spoke highly ot
the company commander. Captain
Wilcox.
Governor Henry C. Tde gave a
brilliant outline of the conditions ex
isting at the time of his service in
the Philippines. He spoke of the
many Vermont men who were heads
of the , department during the war
with Spain. The civil commission
which co-operated with the military
department at that time. . Gov. Ide
spoke of the disease that was among
the 60,000 men scattered over the
islands who did not know how to pro
tect themselves from the tropical dis
eases which overtook many. In
speaking of the criticisms of that
time he said: "There were enemies
in front and enemies at home. The
unjust criticisms made by the papers,
regarding atrocltirg committed by
the U. S. soldiers upon, as the papers
said, the defenseless natives, were
grossly exaggerated. It is true there
were some irregularities, but I know
perfectly well that thfy were angels
of mercy compared to the troops that
are now scourging Europe from one
end to the other."
In closing Gov. Ide spoke of the
possibility of a soldier rising from
the ranks, and further urged for a
Following the satisfying courses greater preparedness to use the great
that were served, cigars were distrib
uted and after the chairs had been
pushed back. President Peck in be
half of the Commercial club spoke a
word of welcome to the returned
company. He then turned the exer
cises over into the capable hands of
Arthur S. Stone, who with his hum
orous stories, apt illustrations and
appropriate introductions, kept the
banqueters intensely Interested be
tween speeches.
General Tillotson Speaks
General Lee S. Tillotson was intro
duced as the commander of the army
and navy of Vermont, and in begin
ning he said he was willing to ao
cept the responsibility of the army
but wished to be excused from the
Vermont navy proposition. He con
veyed the regret of Governor Gates
in being unable to be present. In
speaking of the recent trip to the
army of volunteers that would re
spond if needed.
Roger Williams of Cuba gave an
account of the training received In
the civilian camp at Plattsburg and
outlined the work as done there dur
ing the summer months.
Captain Henry W. Ellis was intro
duced as a veteran of '9 8, and spoke
; briefly and to the point upon the les
sons learned, of obedience, patriotism
and respect to the flag.
Elisha May, after a hearty welcome,
compared the position of the present
company with the young men leav
inif for the front In '61. He gave an
outline of the organization from the
days of the Civil war and of the or
ganization of a regiment where the
Fair ground now stands.
As a state willing to aid the soldier
boy he said Vermont was always at
the front and was the first state in
border he said: "Have we profltted j the Union to aid the boys in khaki
at all by the lessons past. Has what
we learned during the summer led us
to believe that we have made any
progress in military" preparedness?"
In answer to the questions Genera
Tillotson spoke of the vexatious de
to the extent of $35 per month. Mr.
May mentioned the generosity of the
officers in saying the unprepared con
dition was the fault of no party. He
spoke highly of General Tillotson and
in closing said: "Although I am n
lays caused to all concerned by the, good old-fashioned democrat, first of
uncf rtainties of the war department j nil I am an American."
but he defended this by speaking of The delightful banquet that was
a federal law that was passed prior to! served was under the auspices of the
accident, sickness and death and-thfi musterine in of the troons which : ladies of th Eastern Star. The Li
as the side of a triangle. The other 1 brought you back to the green hills put into effect in three weeks a law, dies of the order and their husbands
oi Vermont ana nomes so dear to all. Which when put on the statute assisted at the tables and the rn
You never appreciated this God's j books was intended five years fot , mittee in charge of arrangements
country of yours and ours as you do I completion. He received a warm ap- w r Mrs. Fanny Beck, Mrs. Robt. Mo
today after the trials by heat, sand ! plause when .suddenly stopping he Gillivray, Mrs. Harry Bartlett and
storms, desert wastes and tribulations said. "1 am not talking politics. 1 , Mrs. Harrv Cheslev.
This includes towns or schools u
which cases may occur this week at
any time previous to the .dates of the
above gatherings.
Will you please give notice in your
district accordingly.
Yours very truly,
DR. C. H. DALTON,
Per order of the secretary.
Brattleboro, October 8, 1916.
GUERNSEY COW BRINGS A
RECORD PRICE AT AUCTION
North Easton, Mass., Oct. 10. The
"cow that jumped over the moon"
did not exceed the heights of fame
among dairy farmers gained today
by Longwater Dairymen, a Guernsey
of the purest blood. She is the high
est priced 'Guernsey in .the world,
having sold at auction under bidding
of farmers from all over the country
for $6,150. Charles L. E. Whitney
of Albany was the buyer. F. La
throp Ames of this town was ihe
former owner.
Caledonian Want Ads. Pay.
organizations marching hi perfect
order filled the other side. The G
A. R. opened ranks, and between the
lines of battle scarred veterans, Co. D,
led by Captain Wilcox and Major
Tinker, passed with snappy tread to
their position at the base of the tri-
aaa'e facing the Athenaeum. The
uniforms of the Knights Templars
topped with the white plumed hel
met, the colonial buff and folue of the
Red Men, the flashing gold lace and
brilliant colored uniforms of the I. O
O. F. and Foresters, made a direct
contrast to the olive drab of the re
turning company and the navy blue
of the veterans. The swords of the
uniformed men flashed in salute ant
the returning troops swung into
place. The picture that was made
caused the mob that packed the back
ground to break into cheer again and
again.
In well chosen words Frank H.
3rooks on behalf of the townspeople
welcomed the company back again t
St, Johnsbury, and to their homes.
Inspiring, thrilling as was the sight
we witnessed at the time of your de
parture to the front prepared to do,
dare and die, the spectacle on the
part of citizens welcoming home its
citizen soldiers after they have been
tried and found efficient, faithful and
patriotic in actual service, is one in
finitely finer, more thrilling and filled
with a gratification that knows no
bounds.
Commendation cannot be too high,
appreciation too deep, or admiration
go too great a distance in expressing I
to jou all that your courageous acts
incidental to army life.
Not only are we proud to unfurl
Old Glory to the wind and sunshine,
but are willing to "paint the town
am a republican." Then he went on
to say, "If you have criticisms to
make, wait and consider, give every j
one a chance to work things out
red 'Decause or our joy over your j along the new line of affairs." He
safe return home. It. however, ap-jspoke of the regiment of infantry I
pears that the Creator of this same i Vermont was calleC upon to furnish I
God's country has outstripped all our
puny efforts in that He has painted
the entire countryside and every hill
top with flaming foliage symbolic ol
a warm welcome home. The fresh
ness of the verdant meadows also
joins in the happy event, portraying
the ever-loving, the undying, appre
ciation of the sacrifice you have made.
Button Strikes" In
The Coal Collieries.
The Miners whose Union does
It is symbolic as well of the belief ; sent there again.
that he extreme sacrifice of life on) General Tillotson explained that
your part would have gladly and the enlistment under the new law held
promptly been made had it been nee ( for six years and while the men were
essary to protect our beloved land for, out of the federal service, yet they
as well equipped as any on the bor-1
rtor anA furthoi- onM that fhp rear- I
ular army officers on the border are paid have a button which is
thought highly of the Vermont renewed monthly. They positive
troops, while the fine reputation j refuse to work with men whose
gained while on duty, gave expres- j .. :.
sion of the hope on the part of the d"cs paid, consequently
border people that if the necessity these Button Strikes follow. It
arose the Vermont boys ( might be will all Straighten out, but it holds
up production just now.
any reason.
Last, but not least, the human ele
ment crowns all this wealth of color
were still members of the Vermont
National guard with three years of
active service before them, and three
with a personal touch that leads us years on the reserve list if desired.
to think that God and man and the; In closing general Tillotson urged
surrounding forces of nature all Join; the lousiness men to get behind the
to crown the event with such sincerity j organization of the local company,
as to make us one and all proud ;f urge their employees to Join, for he
you, our country, and the Lord God said: "One system cannot succeed
of our nation. j until every man gets behind. Yotj
And so in behalf of all here pres-1 an take your choice to do it volun
ent to welcome you, and speaking as tarily or within a few years it will b
well for many that cannot be here, made compulsory. Keep on pushing
I close this brief but hearty message and you will be given an efficient or-
I ganization as has been had in the
(Continued on -page 5) ' past." '
I
