i'i
THIS PAPER issued In
two sections Section
two—Pages 1 to 6—Lo
cal news, stories, corre
spondence and Denlaon
local 8.
VOL. 51
CHJS. JOHNSON
IKSTAimY KILLED
Well Known Swedish .Citizen Meets
Death Monday When Aulto Turns
Turtle Near Paradise Hill
PINNED UNDER FRONT SEAT
Unfortunate Man Was Alone in Car
at Time o? Accident—Funeral
Held This Afternoon.
Mr. Clias. Johnson, a farmer resid
ing in East Boyer township, was
killed Monday just before the noon
hour when the machine he was driv
ing turjjed turtle on the ridge road
seven miles west of Denison, a short"
distance west of the Paradise hill on
the road to Charter Oak. There is lit
tle doubt but what death was instan
taneoiiF as the big six cylinder tour
ing car was found resting on his body
his head protruding from one side of
the front seat and his feet from the
other. I. A. Mains and a party of
friends who had been in Denison dur
ing the foronoon found the wreck
when returning to Charter Oak, and
telephoned to Denison. Dr. A. H. Ron
burg and John Saggau drove out, tc
the scene of the accident at once and
brought the remains to Denison.
Karly Monday morning Mr. .Johnson
came to Denison and took his ear out
of the Pautscli Bros, garage, where it
had been undergoing repairs, and took
Arthur Pearson and Robert Pavtscli
out to the John Henning farm in Han
over township, where they were
threshing grain. Mr. Johnson owned
the threshing outfit which is operated
bv his sons. He remained with the
threshing outfit moFt of the forenoon „.u„„
assisting them with the work, and
The remains were brought to Deni
son and taken to the Salomon under
taking parlors Coroner Wm. Byrnes
Vail, hastened to Denison, but after
visiting the scene of the accident de
cided not to hold an inquest. None of
the injuries seemed to be of a nature one.
mends the wearing of these pretty white wash waists.
The practice of economy is a most commendable trait. It
means that one spends their money judiciously—not reckless
ly nor wastefully. In luying these YVirthmor Waists—the
purchaser is not only exercising the strictest economy by get
ting the greatest return fo.r the money spent—waists that will
wear well and launder beautifully—but in addition to this, the
assurance that h£r waists are always in good taste and in good
style.
Wherfe Wirthmor Waists are sold, there too, will you find
unusual values in Waists at all other prices.
There's just one Wirthmor Store in every city.
which would cause death, and it is be
lieveil that he vas suffocated by the
fumes from' the gasoline.
The car was badly w.recke.d, but was.
broyglit to",Denison late in the after
tioon. .The, frame was badly bent, the
windshield broken and the left front
wheel broken, from the spindle.
phas. Johan Johnson was born on
f*eb. 11, 1S55, in Sweden and when a
young .man came to America. He was
united in marriage to Miss Marie
Ange on the 3d day of April, 1SS8, the
ceremony taking place in Omaha. In
1900 the family moved to Denison and
after a short residence here they
moved to a farm in Goodrich township.
For the past four years they have
been living on'the Jerry O'Connor farm
in East Boyer township, which Mr.
Johnson had rented for a term ol
years. Besides the wife there are
left to mourn his. death the following
children: Frithiof, Hjalmer, Line
Frank. Hannah, Chase and Carl. He
leaves' one brother residing in Swe
den and one sister, Mrs. John Ander
son, a resident of Denison.
Funeral services were held this af
ternoon from .the family home in East
Boyer township at 1 o'clock, interment
being made in Oakland cemetery.
The bereaved wife and' children
have the sympathy of the entire com
munity in their sorrow.
CLAIMS HOLDUP
C. H. Weiss Has Exciting Eperience
on Coon Grove Hill.—Says Two
Men Held Him Up.
BUCK GROVE, Oct. 9—(Special tc
the Review)—Mr. c. :r. -.veific nad a
most exciting experience on Coon
Grove hill last Wednesday night when
returning home from Denison, which
he will not soon forget.
Mr. Weiss was driving his machine
11P
lul)
when
started for home alone in his car ifrom the underbrush and one with a
Evidently he traveled at a high rate
of speed, hoping to reach home in time
for dinner. Going east over the ridge
road and while making a turn just
west of Paradise hill the wheels on
one side of the car ran into a small
ditch washed out by surface water
and from the tracks it appears that
Mr. Johnson in getting the' car hack
into the road, cramped the front
wheels, causing the big machine to
shoot across the road and into a
bank where it turned turtler He was
pinned under the front seat in such
a manner as to break his shoulder ,Hnd
received gashes about the head and
face, undoubtedly caused by the glass
of the windshield., His shoulders were
badly blistered, due to the fact that
eight or ten gallons of gasoline from
the tank under the seat leaked out on
liitn.
gun in his hand ran out in front of
the car and ordered him to stop. The
other fellow clambered aboard the car
and held a revolver to his back. Mr
Weiss, however, did not propose to
be held up and put on more speed and
believes that he ran. over the man
standing in the road with both wheels
Evidently the man in the car became
frightened and jumped from the ma
So tor" when Mr" Weiss, turned rambled up the
around to see what had become of him
he was gone.
A search was made in the locality
for the uihn supposed to be run over
but no trace of him was found. It
may be possible that the wouldbe
holdups were the same gang that held
up the Greek laborers at Arion the
night before.
Mr. L. Hubbell has commenced the
erection of a fine new home on the
Tabor lots on South Main street. Mr
Hubbell sold his residence this sum
mer and hopes to have the new one
ready for occupancy when he will be
lequired to give possession of the old
Coming—Thursday,
E
New irthriibr' Models That go on Sale
mortrow- As Always $1.00
I5conohiv and "desire 6-bcj^well dressed, coin-
WEST DES MOINES
WINS FAST GAME
West Des Moines High vj Denison
High Last Saturday Proves
a Big Drawing Card.
DES MOINES 41 TO DENISON
Denison Not at All Discouraged Over
Loss of the Game and Will Play
Harlan Next Saturday.
The game opened with Denison re
ceiving the kickoff. End runs and
forward passes wero put into play by
the Denison team, but these failed to
make the desired gains and the boys
were forced to punt. Dos Moines man
ae-ed to carry the ball for several nice
gains, but were forced to kick. Deni
son fumbled the ball and Des Moines
made its first touchdown. Another
score was made by Des Moines when
a sensational long forward pass was
successfully put into operation.
In the second quarter Denison
showed considerable fight and forged
their way down the gridiron playing
in the visitors' territory. Des, Moines
however, soon got the pigskin and
but were unable to overcome the
strong defensive work of Denison and
failed to score.
The second half of the game was
all in favor of the visitors who., in
hopes' of piling up a big score, tried
out a number of Hck plavs which
were more or less successful. The
Minnesota formation and the interfer
ence of the Des Moines team was a
notable feature oE the game. Durfnp
this half long end runs were put into
operation as well as lino smashes
When the whistle sounded at the end
of the game Des Moines had scored
41 points.
Denison should not regret the loss
of this game for the team gave a good
Exceptional Values in Suits have been arrayed for
this week at $19.5Q. Others at $25, $30 and $35
New Fall Millinery
Is specially priced for this week. Smart, chic models of
fered for this week's selling in two.
lots.
Lot A at $3.98. These are hats that would regularly sell
at not less than $5 to $6.50.
Lot at $4.98. In this showing you will see hats sold at
$7 and $8.50. Comparison is invited.
NEW
1RTHMOR
THE DENISON REVIEW
THIS WEEK'S NEWS THIS WEEK, NOT NEXT WEEK.
DENISON, IOWA, WEDNESDAY, OCT. 11, 1916.
account of itself. It must be remem
bered that west high has a student
body of 1500 and of course much more
material for a team is available. The
valuo of the west high game lies in
the fact that it gave the hqme lads
an idea of real football. One of the
Denison players after the game said
"I never knew a team could play as
west high did and I wish that we
could play them again later in the
season." It certainly gave the boys
an insight into what real football is
and we believe they will profit by the
experience. Professor Lynch and
Chas. Helsley, who coach the local
team, are proud of the showing their
team made. They are using a new sys
tem this year, based on fundamentals
which will have a telling offect be
fore the season closes. Both of tiie
The best exhibition of football ever
witnessed in Denison was the game
last Saturday between the West Desjcoaches have worked under some of
Moines high school team and the Den- the best coaches in the west and are
ison eleven. It was a one-aided game giving the local boys the benefit of
however, the Des Moines team mak-i their experience.
ing 41 points while Denison failed to! On Saturday of this week the Deni .s!l*P
finish, with the advantages on Des day's game is as follows:
Moines' side as their team outwlghed Denison—
the Denison boys considerably. Thej Cavett, center.
game was remarkable for the number Strahan, right guard.
The locals
of fumbles by both teams.
plaved remarkable football, however
and did not lose their heads sUhovglii
they knew they were pitted against
a faster team, one which had had sev
era! years of training at the hands of
some of the best, coaches in the state
It was a fast game from start to! The lineup and summary of Satur-'yle driving here from Manning, Ma-
Brodersen, left grard.
Flinn,
4
.right tack'e.
Helsley, left tackle.
Gary, left end.
Vally. right end.
O'Connor, quarter.
Wearinouth loft half.
Lehfeldt, right half.
Locke (captain), fullback.
Des Moines—
Nunnich, center.
Telloni. right guard.
Sauer, left guard.
Chelsea, right tackle.
Ramsey, left tackle.
Beck, left end.
Schlesininger, right end.
McMurray. quarter.
Cunningham, left half.
G. Devine, right half.
A. Devine (captain!, fullback.
Substitutions: Laub for, Strahan
Strahan for Flinn. McCord for Gary
Flinn for T.ally, Rendan for Telloni.
Perkins for Sauer. Burns for (Seek
ray. Bridley for Cunningham, Ellis for
G. Devine.
Summary: Touchdowns, Sehlesmin
ger 3, G. Devine, Cunningham goals
A. Devine 5 out of 6,
Officials: Referee, VanLiew. of Grin
nell umpire, Barrett,, of Jefferson
head linesman, Rietfardson, of Deni
son.
Mrs. Hans Jurgensen, brother of
Mr. Fritz Jurgensen, of Los Angeles
Cali., has been spending the past week
in Denison visiting friends and rela
tives. He departed this morning for
Sioux City, where he will visit with
his daughter, Mrs. O: Arf.
mm
iANY ATTEND
SCIENCE LECTURE
Germrnia Opera House Well Filled
With Appreciative Audience to
Hear William F. Gross
,SHORT OUTLINE OF LECTURE
Right Thinking and Proper Education
in Relation to Good Health Be
Taught by Speaker.
A Hree number of neoDle were nres-
ent at the Germania opera house on
01
score. One of the largest crowds ever son eleven will play Harlan high at Church of Christ, Scientist. The lec-j feared and too little consideration to
seen at the Denison athletic field turn Harlan and on Saturday of next week!tnre
ed out to witness the game and many they will meet the fast Council Bluffs
football enthusiasts were here from: team on the local field. The Council
surrounding towns. It was an ideal Bluffs game will be a fast one, but we
day, but was a little too warm to per-.have every reason to believe that it roeak. A large number were in at
mit either team to do their be*t. will be Denison's game. tendance from out of town, many peo-
was un
jnilla, Vail, Lake View and Deloit.
Dr. Gross has a pleasi\g personality
'and a good delivery and the large
audience was held in wrapt attention
throughout the lecture. Below we
give a short outline of the lecture de
livered
world has scarcely begun to realize
The discovery was this—namely, that
the healing of sickness results "from
the operation of the same spiritual
law whereby sin is destroyed ,nl men
Sain "the elorious liberty of the chil
dren of God."
The world's greatest religious teach
er made no distinction between the
healing of sickness and the destruc
tion of sin. The apostles continued to
do t!e same works as when the Mas
ter was with them, thus demonBtrat
ing that the power to heal was not de-
rional Jesus. It is not known that Paul
had ever seen Jesus, but he was none
the less successful in healing and
preaching than were the twelve and
t!in seventy.
This s.peritual method of healing
disease established by the Master
was gradually lost sight of and it fin
ally disappeared. For nearly sixteen
centuries it, was considered that the
healing works of the early Christians
involved a setting aside of law and
order that is not to be expected at
this age.
Christian Science claims no more
than is admitted was at one time an
evidence of spiritual teachings under
stood and practiced. The true idea of
God and man is the Science of Cliria
tianity, and when this Science is un
derstood there can be no question as
to whether the healing of disease is
One Big Feature of Our October Sale to be Shown on Menagh's Women's Apparel Floor
LEVEN of the smartest imported reproductions in women's Suits, Coats and Gowns that have ever been shown in
Denison, will be displayed for the first time this side of New York City, Thursday, Friday and Saturday of this week.
These garments were imported through our connections, and reproduced exactly as the following famous dress and suit
makers or Paris designed them: Doeuillat, Bernard, Bertha Hermance, Georgette. Some very artistic ideas are worked
out in rhese masterpieces of dress and suit construction. You are cordially invited to see them. The prices are $65.00,
s$85.00. $1 10.00 and $125.00. The originals are worth from $250.00 to $475.00.
A Word to You Men
Do you know that every man you meet is both judge and
jury of how you look? Do you know that your appearance is
always on trial? Are you guilty of faulty selection in your
clothes? Do poor lilting clothes stand against you? It" so,
why not acquit yourself, win the verdict and be declared a
man of tasty attire?
Let us show you the wonderful Fruhauf suits and new
Ilirscli-Wickwire models we now offer. Only all wool fabrics
are shown, together with the highest quality tailoring.and wo
know, once you look over our wonderful showing of men's
suits, you will iind just what you are looking for.
For this week we are offering exceptional vallies in suits
at $19.50. $22.50 and $29. -.
In another big lot we feature about 75 men's suits at
$13.85. There are values in this showing that would retail
regularly as high as $19.50.
MENAGHS
mm
as divinely natural as the overcoming!
of sin. I
Christianity is more than a con
fession of faith it ia a vital principle
which remains forever the same. The
early Chrstians were capable of many
good works because thought was quick
ened and faith in God.became a vital
force instead of a blind belief.
Spiritual understanding must be as
effectual now as it was in the begin
ning of the Christian era. Scriptural
teachings are Altogether reasonable
when rightly interpreted, and they
bring to human recognition a sense of
God's power and love which tlostrovt
fear, overcomes anxiety, and lifts the
heavy burden of sin and suffering.
Kight
think'»S
is
Gf an
Monday evening to hear the lecture of to proper channels. The relation of
necessary in ev
op were pres |erjr human endeavor and the purpose
education is to turn thought in-
Willis F. Gross, of Boston, Mass., who !'"'P1'1 thinking to good health is be-1 with the post office situation here in
is a member of the board of lecture-
ginning to receive the consideration it
should. Too much attention has been
Mother church the Firgt!gjven to the things that are to be
der the auspices of the lo-|t,ie things that are desired. The ef-
„ol fort to establish health should be nindr
Scientist church and an invitation
along the same lines that
was extended to all to hear Dr. Gross cess in other directions. The thought
of disease must be eliminated. Think
ing about disease is not right thinking
jnsures sue-
Fast Boyer township, rented by Chas
Johnson, who was killed in an auto
mobile accident on the ridge road
Spontaneous combustion is said to
have caused the tire.
The fire was discovered about 0:80
o'clock, but not until after the whole
building was enveloped in flames
Neighbors responded quickly to the
alarm and a number of Denison peo
pie riishcrl to the scene in automo
biles to render every possible assist-1 newspapers
penderit upon the presence of the per moe. Ten head of horses were lost jSOme deal of his.
as well as 18 tons of hay and several
sets of harness. The loss is estimated I
of water played on the building, but
it was impossible to check the fire
which had gained such headway.
It i»-not known whether o'r*not in
surance was carried on the building
or horse3.
Friday and Saturday
Warm Coats for Cold Weather Wear are priced
for quick selling at $12.50, $16.75 and $22.50
tiitrllftflifjfV-
Please mention The Re
view when answering
"Classified Ads." This
xourtesy will be appre
ciated.
No. 41
POSTOEIKROW
REACHES CAPITAL
Dispatch to Today's 'Register and
Leader TeNs of Wrangle Among
Crawford Democrats.
APPOINTMENT TO BE HELD UP
Big Defection in G'erman-American
Vote in Denison and Ithe Whole
County May Follow.
This morning's issue of the Regis
ter and Leader contained a dispatch
from its Washington bureau dealing
Denison. The democratic county dic
tator is to be congratulated upon the
fact that the wrangle over the post
office in Denison is even heard at the
naional capital. The dispatch dated
at Washington, D. C., October 10th, is
as follows:
"Owing to a big wjangle among
Crawford county democrats the Deni
son post office appointment is held
and if this wrong practice is indulged I up and it is said will wait until after
it is not reasonable to expect harmon election. .John Carey has b?en recom
ious bodily conditions to result. mended for the place by the Iowa dem
ocratic organization and by State Sen
ator Caswell. Caswell sought to have
his ^iDU named, but Carey opposed this
and fomented opposition from the ed-,
itor of the Drnison Hercld. Caswell,
finally recommended Carey, but this
lias failed to make pence and threats
BARN AND HORSES BURN
Fire Destroys Barn and Ten Horses
on O'Connor Farm Occupied by
Chas. Johnnon Deceased.
In the latter half of the nineteenth
cetnury one of New England's illus
trious women made a discovery, the
Far-reaching importance of which the: barn on the Jerrv O'Connor farm in! American vote in Denison and Craw-
Afire this morning destroyed the,oi a big defect ion in the German-
ford county have ,followed."
BUYS MORE LAND.
Patrick Hassett Keeps Up 'Record As
Big Denier in Real Estate by
Purchasing Another Farm
H. is a dull week for Patrick Has
sett when ho does not figure in a big
land deal in this county and he has
been at it so long that the people of
the community do not enjoy theii
unless they/ chronicle
The
at 84,000 or more. I I-Iouser farm of 130 acres located three
The family were in the house mak miles southwest of Denison which
ing preparations for the funeral to bejfif.ai was closed up last Friday. Mr.
held this afternoon when the blaze| Hassett, together with 7... Mubbell.
was discovered. A gasoline engine went up to Spirit Lake Friday, where
was hitched to a pump and a stream Mr. Houser lives, and made the deal
of water nlnvffl on the tiuilriinsr. but
jatPSt venture made bv Mr. Has-
sett
is the purchase of the Victor
ti,^
The consideration was $130 per acre.
Friends of Mr. and Mrs. K. Heffel
ffnger received invitations last week
to their golden wedding anniversary
which will be celebrated on October
16th. Mr. and Mrs. Heffelflnger were
among the first residents of Denison.
but left here a number of years ago
for Los Angeles, Cal}., where,- thfcy
have since made their home. Mr. Hef
felfinger visited in Denison this
••Mrs. M. A. Penney and Mrs. Shirk
returned Friday from the W. C. T.
convention which was held at Fort
Dodge. They report that Bert Will
iams, of Denison, who is attending
Des Moines college, was awarded first spring, spending a week here with old
prize for the best essay. neighbors and friends.
I'M
moa
