PIONEER PAPER OF ARIZONA
MACEDONIA JUD
Tn a uni 1jLiiiA
l-KUim Ant
BERLIN CLAIMS RUMAN-j
IANS ARE RETREATING;
TEUTONS TAKE TOERZ-i
BURG AND SERBIANS
SKOCHIVIO; HARD FIGHT
ING IN GALICIA.
By Associated Press.
LONDON. Oct. 9. The battle
fronts in Transylvania and Macedonia
continue to be the centers of greatest
interest. Berlin claims the Rumanians
arc retreating along the whole line in
Transylvania. The Teutons captured
Tocrzburg, within seven miles of the
Rumanian border. The Serbians cap
tured Skochivio, southeast of Monas
tir and occupied positions on the
north bank of the Ccrna river. Con
tradictory claims becloud the result
There Is hard fighting In Galiria. Six
hundred Jusxl f t..' "iy injjk--w; rc
lost when the auxiliary cruiser Gallia,
carrying 2,000 Serbian and French
soldiers was sank In the Mediter
ranean. DANIELS' VIEW
ASBURY PARK, Oct. 9. Secre
tary of the Navy Daniels, in a report
to President Wilson today, said that
advices, so far as received, indicated
that all the rules of international war
fare had been complied with by the
German submarine operating off the
New England coast.
NO WARNING GIVEN
XEW YORK, Oct. 9. The British
steamer Strathdcnc was fired upon
without warning, according to the
commander of the ship. Captain Wil
son, who was brought into port today
by the steamer P. L. M. No. 4, from
Quebec, with 33 members of the crew.
TEDDY'S ITINERARY
CHICAGO. Oct. 9. Roosevelt will
speak in behalf of Hughes at Chicago,
Denver, El Paso, New York and oth
er cities before the close of the cam
paign. 110 DECREAS
FORECASTED
DEPARTMENT OF AGRI
CULTURE INDICATES A
FALLING OFF IN THE
PRINCIPAL CROPS.
By Associated Tress.
WASHINGTON', Oct. 9. The de
partment of agriculture's monthly re
port indicated a further decrease of
production in prospect for the coun
try's principal farm crops excepting
corn, flax, rice and kaffir. Wheat is
estimated at 600,557,000 bushels, 404,
000,000 under last year. Corn has in
creased S,400,000 over the September
forecast, while the potato crop is the
smallest since 1911.
WEATHER FORECAST
For Arizona: "Fair, except show
ers in thc northeast"
COPPER
NEW YORK, Oct. 9.
$27.75 and $28.
-Electrolytic
CENTER OF
INTEREST
EN
FARM TS
Weekly Journal -Miner
- L0N6 ARM
i
THE
FRESH TROOPS TO -5
BE DISPATCHED IN
PURSUIT OF VILLA
CHIHUAHUA CITY, Oct.
9. A new column of rested
and newly equipped troops is
being organized to take up the
pursuit of Villa. Colonel Muz
quiz is en route from Monterey
with a large body of troops to
? join the pursuit.
t S 5 "J" O
VILLA 80 MILES
By Associated Press.
CHIHUAHUA CITY, Oct. 9.
Villa with his main command has
been located at Tcjolocachic, 80 miles
j sou tli- ofhc-WH!ricanrHwjosIirieflary.i
base at Casas Grandes. He is mov
ing north. According to scouts' re
ports to General Trcvino, another
band of Villistas is located near Guer
rero City, 80 miles west of Chihuahua
City.
Germany Must
Keep Her Promise
Declares Wilson
LONG BRANCH, Oct. 9. Presi
dent Wilson announced today, as a
result of the German submarine at
tacks on vessels off the American
coast, that "The German government
will be held to the fulfillment of its
promises to the government of the
United States."
He added that he had no right, now
to question Germany's willingness to
fulfill the promises.
Just before Count Von Bcrnstorff,
the German ambassador, called on the
president at Shadow Lawn this after
noon, Mr. Wilson issued the following
statement:
"The government, will of course,
first inform itself as to all the facts,
that there may be no doubt or mis
take as far as they arc concerned.
"The country may rest assured that
the German government will be held
to the complete fulfillment of its
promises to the government of the
United States.
"I have no right now to question
its willingness to fulfill them."
Fisher A Witness
Before Grand Jury
PHOENIX, Oct. 9. Thc grand
jury resumed its sessions at the
county court house this morning and,
at a late hour this afternoon, had re
turned no true bills.
Considerable speculation was excit
ed around thc corridors when Attor
ney Robert Fisher, candidate on the
Republican ticket for thc office of
county attorney, was summoned be
fore thc grand jury.
While no definite report could be
had as to what interrogations thc at
torney was subjected to, there was a
general impression that thc grand
jurors had asked him as to what
foundation, in fact, he had for thc
statements made by him in an adver
tisement published yesterday.
Oscar Irvin was another witness.
SILVER
YORK, Oct. 9.-
NEW
cents.
-Silvcr, 67J-6
SOUTH OF THE
AMERICANS
PRESCOTT JOURNAL-MINER, WEDNESDAY MORNING, OCTOBER 11, 191G.
OF TEUTON MARINE
ATLANTIC
Mysterious Undersea Boat Performs Feat Which Strikes
Terror to the Heart of Allied Commerce; Protests Are
Lodged at the State Department by Entente Am
bassadors; Serious Situation May Develop.
NEW PORT, R. I., Oct 9. One submarine made a wholesale r aid on foreign shipping Sunday,
south of Nantucket lightship. According to American naval officers It was presumably the German
U-S3, which called Saturday at Newport and departed without taking supplies after mailing a letter to
the German ambassador. Rear-Admiral Gleaves, commanding the American destroyer flotilla, believes
the maneuvers of the submersible are responsible for the impression that there was more than one. The
raiding has ceased, at least temporarily. The known victims of the craft remain at six, notwithstanding
reports from Nantucket that three other unidentified ships were sunk. There is also an unconfirmed
rumor that one of the British cruisers sent to the submarine zone has been attacked.
FRAUGHT WITH GRAVE POSSIBILITIES
LONG BRANCH, Oct 9. Announcement tonight by Secretary Lansing that he is coming to
morrow to confer with the president concerning the German submarine raids confirmed the impression
gained earlier In the day that the government considered the attacks off the American coast fraught with
grave possibilities. Nothing was received, however, to show that international law or the promises of
Germany have been violated. Concern centered chiefly about what might happen if the attacks continued.
BELIEVES CREW IS ON MERCHANTMEN
WASHINGTON, Oct 9. Rear-Admiral Knight at Newport believes an eastbound merchantman
rescued the missing crew of the British steamer Kinstania, sunk yesterday, by a German submarine,
and carried them to sea without reporting, because it feared that using the wireless might endanger her.
SAYS ATTACK WAS WITHOUT WARNING
NEW YORK, Oct 9. Thirteen shots were fired at the British steamer Strathenden, one of the
German submarine's victims off Nantucket yesterday, before the crew had taken to the boats. Accord
ing to Captain Wilson the steamer was "attacked unwarned. None of the shots struck until we left"
OFFICIALS SILENT ON ALLIED DEMANDS
WASHINGTON, Oct. 9. Officials here declined to make an authoritative statement on the prob
able attitude of the United States relative to operations of the German submarine In the Western Atlan
tic They maintain silence on the question whether complications will arise from the new Allied mem
orandum urging detention of any underwater craft entering a neutral port. The Allied communication
was outlined in cable dispatches but has not reached the State department.
Seven Ships Sunk. at sunset. Some naval men, however, Miner, plying regularly between
BOSTON, Oct. 9. The submarine
: I
arm of the imperial German
navy
ravaged shipping off the eastern coast
of the United States, Sunday.
Four British, one Dutch and
Norwegian steamer were sent to the
bottom or ien cupiutu utn..n.
i patches, follows: The Stathdcne,
Nantucket shoals. j i5rit;sIl frciBhtcr, torpedoed and sunk
The destroyer llotilla of the United I off Xantuckct. The crew was taken
States Atlantic fleet picked up passcn- ai,oard tle Xantuckct shoals lightship
gcrs and crews of the destroyed ves-anj atcr rcmovcd to Newport by tor
scls and brought them into Newport, , pcj0 Uoat destroyers. The Strath-
lri 1 . 1 .lnrnlnlr r-i T T
R. I.
A submarine held up the American
steamer Kansan, bound from New
York for Genoa with steel for the
Italian government, but later, on cs-tIic crew abandoned the ship in small j from Ncw York for Rotterdam,
tablishing her identity, allowed thci,oats aftcr a warn;ng si,ot from the The Christian Knudscn, Norwegian
American to proceed. The Kansan slIj)niar;nc's gun- Officers and men I frc!Shter. torpedoed and sunk near
came into Boston harbor for her usual wcrc tafccn aboard a destroyer. The;whcrc thc bloomcrsdijk went down.
call here. i
Tl.- !..:? .-,,: ;c Mlnv
to be thc U-53 which paid a call to .
Newport, Saturday, and disappeared t
Boston Wins Thrilling
F ourteen-Inning Game By
Score Of Two To One
By Associated Press.
BOSTON. Oct. 9. Breaking thc
world's scries records and tearing
traditions to shreds, Boston defeated
Brooklyn by a score of 2 to 1 today in
a 14-inning game lasting over two
hours.
Thc second contest for the cham
pionship was decided only aftcr a
j struggle that surpassed in startling
i situations. With the stage set for a'
thrilling climax, a pinch hitter and
a pinch runner won thc victory as
darkness was settling over thc Braves'
field. Thc attendance was 41,373
netting $82,626.
Thc contest opened with a sensa
COAST OF
declared that at least two submarines
I
's,, operating close to the American
short, though outside the three-mile
limit.
List of the Lost.
The record of submarine warfare,
rr Jirniifrlit tn lrirwl !iv wireless !?-
i - " n - ....... . - . . ..... i
dene left New York Saturday for
Bordeaux, and was attacked at 6 a. m.
The West Point, British freighter,
torncdocd and sunk off Nantucket.
vessel was attacked at 10:45 a. m. She
C l,n,m,l frnm I nn.lnn fnr Wirnrl
News.
The
Stcphano, British passenger
tional homer by Hy Myers and it ap-.
pcarcd that a narrow margin would
win for the Dodgers. Scott tripled in ,
thc third and scored when Cutshaw .
juggled Ruth's tap and had time onlyjbut McNally sprinted with the crack I
to make a play at first Eleven in-of the bat and slided over the plate
nings gave neither side thc slightest j winning the run before thc ball reach
advantage, diamond deeds of amaz-jed Miller.
ing daring holding the spectators en- Thc teams left for Brooklyn tonight
thralled. Sizzling hits, wonderful i to begin thc third struggle on Eb
catches, scintillating throws and bet's field tomorrow. The Brooklyn
keenest baseball generalship succeed- spirit will go down as one of thc most
cd each other so rapidly that prcccd- remarkable in the annals of the game,
ing plays wcrc forgotten. j Fourteen innings for thc world's ser
in the 14th Shcrrod Smith faltered lies eclipsed thc previous record of thc
an instant and passed Hoblitzcll. Car- j 13-inning tic game played by the Chi
rigan put McNally in to run forjeago Nationals and Detroit Amcri-
"Hobby" and selected Gainer as
REACHES
THE UNITED STATE
New
York, Halifax and St. Johns, N. F.,
torpedoed southeast of Nantucket,
! bound for New York. Passengers and
I crew numbering about 140 were pick-
cd up by the destroyer Balch and
brought to Newport. The attack was
made at 4:30 I).
in.
The Kingston, British freighter,
torpedoed and sunk southeast of Nan
tucket. This vessel is not accounted
for in the maritime registers, and
may be the Kiugstonian. The attack
occurred at 6 p. m.
The Bloomcrsdijk, Dutch freighter,
torpedoed and sunk south of Nan
tucket, and crew taken aboard a de
stroyer. The steamer was bound
: 1 11C crcw was P,ckca "P b' destroy
CrS- TIlC VCSSCl Sailed frOIIl NcW
York Saturday for London.
(Continued on Page Six)
pinch hitter for Gardner.
Gainer
slashed a line drive between short and !
third. Wheat gathered it in on its
second bounce and whipped to home.
leans in 1907.
TO
2
5t7
"5
DENIED USE OF THE
COURT HOUSE YARDS
"DRYS" GO TO CHURCH
PEORIA, 111., Oct. 9. The
Prohibition national campaign
ers when denied the use of the
court house yard for a meet
ing hers because, it was said,
it was not intended for political
purposes, adjourned to a church
and flayed the liquor interests.
5",'5'5,t5,"5
THE MUD
By Associated Press.
NEW YORK, Oct. 9. Cool wind
with a threat of rain indicated that
possibly football weather is in store
for the combatants' thniTgamc'of the
world's series at Brooklyn tomorrow.
The prospects arc for a capacity
crowd at Ebbct's field. Coombs will
probably be Brooklyn's
choice.
Submarines May
Hunt For Victims
Farther Soufi
WASHINGTON, Oct. 9.
Possi- i
bilitics of diplomatic complications
over tlic Ucrman submarine ram
along the New England coast seemed
todav to noint toward the Allies as
well as toward Germany.
State and navy officials said today i
that thc unofficial report of thc de
struction of ships within sight of
American shores furnished no reason
to change their first impression that
thc submarine operations had been
conducted, so far, within the limita
tions of international law, but they
were fully alive to thc dangerous pos
sibilities. Destruction of an American ship
carrying contraband might easily
cause another Fryc case, and any loss
of life attending thc case might easily
reopen tnc wnoic submarine question
The general opinion prevailing to
day was that, with thc gathering of
Allied cruisers off the New England
coast, the submarines would desert
that field and strike their next blows
farther south.
Outposts Are Fired
Upon By Snipers
By Associated Press.
EL PASO. Oct. 9. Outposts of the !
j Thirty-first Michigan infantry report-j
led bcimr fired unon while patrolling
thc Rio Grande. Sniping is report-
jed from the same camp.
NO VIOLATION TO DATE
WASHINGTON. Oct. 9. State de
partment officials have come to thc
conclusion that, so far, none of Ger
many's promises to the United States
and none of thc rules of international
law have been broken in the subma
rine raid off thc New England coast.
No official announcement of this view
was made, but it is known to have
been reached aftcr a review of such
reports as arc available.
GARAGE ARRIVALS
Ruffncr's C. E. Burton, Ash Fork;
M. H. Wand, Phoenix.
THIRD GAME MAY
BE PLAYED IN
FIFTY-THIRD YEAR
HUGHES
A I
THE MEXICAN
AND FOREIGN
POUCIES OF
TELLS AUDIENCE THAT
REPUBLICANS WILL
BROOK NO INTERFER
ENCE WITH RIGHTS OF
AMERICAN MAIL OR
COMMERCE.
By Associated Press.
' PHILADELPHIA. Oct. 9. Chas.
I E. Hughes in his speech here tonight
, vigorously assailed the administra-
tion's foreign and Mexican policies.
He outlined the Republican party pro
gram In two respects, as follows:
I "We do not propose to tolerate any
improper Interference with American
property, American mails or legiti
mate commercial intercourse, and no
American who is exercising only Am
erican rights shall be put on any
blacklist by a foreign nation."
WHEAT DECLINES
i - "
CHICAGO. Oct. 9. Notwithstand
ing that an account of submarine op
erations and consequent selling
WILSON
twirling i rushes, wheat prices underwent a scn
Isational set back today, the market
soon recovered its equilibrium. The
steadying influences was greatly in
creased by crop damage reported from
Argentina. Opening prices which
mnfpd frnm 1 tn 4'v lnwpr wprp
f,lowc(1 hy raincs within cents
(under Saturday's finish. Corn sway
ed with wheat.
PENOLOGY IDEAS
BUFFALO, Oct. 9. "Segregation,
j Sclf-Govcrnmcnt and State Control,"
bv Ucputy warden Derrick ot Sing
Sing prison, was one of thc chief ad
dresses of today's sessions of the
American Prison Association Con
gress here. Derrick took up thc prob
lem of keeping young offenders,
whose habits of crime are not form
ed, away from the Influence of incor
rigible criminals.
TOWNS IN COCHISE GREET
REPUBLICAN CANDIDATE
FOR GOVERNOR AND AC
CORD HIM OVATIONS.
Special to the Journal-Miner.
WILLCOX, Ariz., Oct. 9. Leaving
Douglas and speaking at McNcal,
Webb. Courtland and Cochise and
ending with an old-time Republican
rally here tonight, Tom Campbell and
party left for Bowie tonight. A drum
corps and autos met thc party a few
miles from the hotel. Thc first Ari
zona regimental band and a great
crowd wcrc on hand to meet Camp
bell and party. A torchlight proces
sion, led by the band; led the crowd
to the hall where thc largest and most
enthusiastic rally ever held here fol
lowed. Campbell was given an ova
tion. He spoke but 20 minutes, giv
ing way to Henry D. Estabrook, of
New York, who spoke for an hour on
national issues, holding thc big audi
ence spellbound by his eloquence and
sound arguments in behalf of Charles
E. Hughes and Republican principles.
ENTHUSIASM IS
i
RAMPANT FOR
CAMPBELL
