VOLUME XXXVII.
JUNIOR PIONEERS
WILL BUILD LODGE
INCORPORATION IS EFFECTED
BUILDING IS TO GRACE FAIR
GROUND.
OLD SETTLERS ENTERTAINED
AT BANQUET BY THEIR
DESCENDENTS.
If present plans do not miscarry, a
pioneer lodge will grace the Brown
County Fair Grounds before another
Fair time rolls around, to be used as a
sort of rest room and meeting place for
the old pioneers and possibly for exhibit
of relics. This plan was decided upon
at the annual meeting of the Junior
Pioneers held at Turner Hall Sunday
afternoon. In spite of the disagreeable
weather, the attendance at the meeting
was very satisfactory and a larger
number than ever were present for the
banquet.
May Own Real Estate
The most important business trans
acted at the annual meeting was the
adoption of articles of incorporation.
As soon as the Association is incorporated
it will have the right to own real estate
and acquire title to the little park in the
Town of Milford where the monument
was erected a few years ago to the
memory of those who were slain in the
Town of Milford during the Indian
Massacre.
The name of the new corporation will
be "Junior Pioneers of New Ulm" and
its general purpose shall be to unite its
members as a social and benevolent
society and as such to keep green the
memory of the early pioneers who settled
in New Ulm and vicinity to preserve
as much as possible the usages, and
customs, language and ideals of the early
^settlers, and to be a potent factor in the
social life of this community to secure
$»and collaborate the historical data of the
^fearly pioneer days to lend a willing hand
in the upbuilding and the advancement
of the interests of this community to
aid and assist the beautifying of New
Ulm and in preserving the natural beauty
spots close proximity to New Ulm
to establish and maintain parks, and to
take the initiative in all such movements
if the conditions warrant such action
ttf collect and properly keep and care for
'relics which have any bearing on fche
early history and early life of this com
munity and to do and perform any and
all other duties naturally falling to an
ssociation of this character.
Another matter that absorbed the st
ation of the Juniors to the exclusion of
most everything else was the project of
^uilding a pioneer lodge at the Brown
-5.C0. Fair Grounds for the convenience
of the old folks. The idea proved
popular from the start and A. J. Alwin
voiced the sentiment of practically all
1 present when he said that the erection
'«of this lodge would be a capital idea and
"that it need not necessarily cost the
^society one cent because he felt that the
Junior Pioneers would be willing to
donate the lodge and furnish labor for
^its erection and completion.
It was also decided at this meeting to
make efforts to have another home
coming next year. This is not to be
aynthing else than a gathering of the
Junior Pioneers for a general good time
^•ust among themselves. All money
making features for the purpose of
drawing crowds are to be eliminated.
The Treasurer's report shows the
society to be in a healthy condition
financially. The assets at the beginning
of the fiscal year were $547.05. To this
were added receipts aggregating the sum
of $48.85. The total disbursements
amounted to $101.45* leaving a balance
of $474.45 in the Treasury. Most of the
money was expended for trees and shrubs
in the Milford Park and on floral tributes
for the pioneers who died during the year.
The following were elected as the
executive committee for the ensuing
Albert Stemhauser, William
7
r, Jr., Adolph G. Meile, J. P.
(_ 1. .Yilliam J. Julius, Heiman Hem,
Ai. 7. G. Alwin, Mrs. u. G. Bell and
Mrs. '1. Xrook. They will meet shorc
ly t" ct their officers and prepare for
an active campaign for the ensuing year.
Wrule the meeting of the Junior Pio
neers was in progress, the old folks kept
arriving and by the time of adjournment
they were all present and young and old
v^paited to the large hall where a ^h^rt
jut excellent program was rendered.
*'/Liss Henrietta Hauenstein favored the
audience with a well-rendered piano solo
and a male quartette consisting of Stan
ley Alwin, Chester Alwin, Cornelius
Burk and Edgar Burk sang a song and
were called upon to respond to an encore.
The main number in the large hall was
several reels of moving pictures which
proved very entertaining and instructive.
Mrs. Herman Hein furnished the piano
music and E. A Pfefferle had placed an
Edison machine at the disposal of the
(Continued on Page 2.)
FEVER EPIDEMIC AT THE
BORDER IS NOW CHECKED
The epidemic of fever among the
Minnesota troops who are on the border,
has been pretty well checked, according
to Captain Arnt G. Anderson, of the
First regiment, M. N. G., who has re
signed fron the army and returned to
his home at Minneapolis.
The Second regiment was the hardest
hit by the disease of any of the soldiers
in camp at Llano Grande, Texas, says
Captain Anderson. At one time 400
men of the Second had the disease, he
said.
"With the exception of the malaria
epidemic," the captain declares, "which
has hit all Minnesota regiments to some
extent, the health of the men at the
border continues good.
"The sick rate in all the regiments is
remarkably low. There is no typhoid
at Llano Grande and the trouble caused
by change in food and climate are
gradually disappearing. The malaria
epidemic hit the Second hard. At one
time only one medical officer was well
enough to be on duty.
"I believe the disease, which is carried
by mosquitoes, has been checked. Lack
of proper mosquito netting probably
was responsible for the epidemic. The
First regiment had 20 malaria cases.
Most of the men suffering from the
disease are taken either to field or base
hospitals."
SLEEPY EYE IS ALL READY
FOR INTER-COUNTY FAIR.
Sleepy Eye is ready and anxiously
waiting for the opening of the Inter
County Fair, which is to be held in that
city next Friday and Saturday, October
13 and 14. It is said that at least a
dozen farmers' clubs of Brown and Red
wood counties will have exhibits at the
fair.
Friday is to be club day. At 10
o'clock in the morning the members of
every farmers club in the two counties
will congregate, at the public school
building in Sleepy Eye, where a pro
cession will be formed to march, headed
by the band, to the public square, where
a pavilion has been erected for their
exhibits.
At the High School Auditorium, on
Friday at 1:30 p. m. the mayor will
deliver an address of welcome, which
will be followed by an address by Dean
A. F. Woods of the State Agricultural
College. T. A. Enckson, in charge of
the Boys and Girls Clubs of the state,
will talk to the children. Another
speaker on the program for the Friday
afternoon meeting is Frank Murphy,
President of the Central Minnesota
Development Association. A. D. Wil
son will also speak.
Mrs. W. T. Cole, president of the State
Federation of Women's Clubs, and Miss
Berry, supervisor of Home Economics,
University of Minnesota, will address a
meeting for women to be held at the
Baptist church.
Saturday will be devoted to games and
sports, the leading feature being a foot
ball game between Sleepy Eye and
Springfield at the fair grounds.
It is expected that a large number of
people from New Ulm and vicinity will
attend the fair.
DEMOCRAT RALLY AT NEW
ULM ARMORY ON THURSDAY
The attention of the voters of the city
is called to the Democratic rally which
will be held at the Armory, to-morrow
(Thursday) evening. The Hon. Herrick
of Wisconsin, once Lieut. Gov. of the
state of Wisconsin will address the voters
on the issues of the day.
Mr. Herrick is, according to reports
received by Joseph Smasal, chairman of
the Democratic County Committee, one
of the most forceful speakers of the
State of Wisconsin and is very much in
demand. The fact that he has always
been a Republican and is casting his lot
with the Democrats this year and is
supporting Wilson ought to make him
more attractive as a speaker than those
who have always supported the party.
He will no doubt give what to him are
good reasons for supporting the present
administration.
As this is presumably the only de
mocratic meeting that will be held in
New Ulm and possibly in the entire
county, it behooves all the Democrats
to turn out and hear the speaker. Not
only should they turn out, but also
all others who are willing and anxious
to hear both sides, to place them in a
bette- position to determine their vote
at the polls in November.
HIGH PRICES ARE
CONSTANT WORRY
INCREASED COST OF LIVING
HITS NEW ULM ABOUT AS
ELSEWHERE.
COMMODITIES SELL NEARLY
SAME HERE AS IN NEIGHBOR-
ING TOWNS.
While prices of all kinds of commod
ities are soaring skyward, and the cost
of living is constantly going higher New
Ulm householders are asking each other:
"Where is it going to stop?"
The Review this week has taken pains
to make inquiries of dealers here and in
some of the surrounding villages, that a
comparison might be made by those who
wish to seek other fields in which to make
their purchases. Although prices on
some articles were found to be lower at
Courtland and Essig, they were higher on
others and indentical on a majority.
As of interest to the average housewife
prices some six years ago were obtained
as a comparison with the present day.
The following current prices and those
of 1909 appear as follows:
Flour(100 lbs). $4 90 $3 40
Butter, creamery 38c 30c
Butter, dairy. 33c
Eggs 28c 17c
Beans (lb) 121-2c 5c7c
Canned Corn 15c
Canned Tomatoes 18c
Potatoes (bu) $1 50 40c
Lard (lb) 20c 15c
Sugar (lb) .. 8c 6c
Gasoline (gal) 25c 15c
Kerosene (gal) 12c 12c
Cream of Wheat 20c 15c
Smoked herring .. 12 l-2c 8c
What Other Dealers Charge.
At Courtland the following prices pre
vail:
Butter, 30c to *37c Eggs, 27 l-2c
Beans, 7c Corn, 10, 13 and 15c Coffee
25, 30 and 40c Tea, average brands, 50
Salt, 5 and 10c sack smoked herring 15c
Sugar, 8 1-2 cents.
At Essig prices range about the same
as at Courtland. Flour is the same as
in New Ulm the merchant there does not
handle butter eggs are 27 cents a dozen
and beans 7 cents a pound. Other com
modities are quoted as follows!
Canned Corn, 10c tomatoes, 15c
rice, 10c cocoanut, 10c raisins, 12 l-2c
lard, 3 lb pails, 50c.
Prices in the Old Days.
R. Pfefferle, who established the first
exclusive grocery store in Brown county,
here, in 1870, told the Review of some of
the prices that ruled here at that time.
"Butter" he said, "was from 6 to 7
cents in the summer, while in the winter
it went up as high as 10 to 12 cents
beans sold around $1.50 a bushel and I
have sold many a bushel for a dollar.
Flour was $2.50 a hundred pounds and
eggs from 5 to 6 cents a dozen. Salt was
$1.50 a barrel. We had to bring our
goods a part of the way from St. Paul by
wagon, making the freight much higher
than it is now. Gun powder tea was
the highest priced commodity that we
had in those days. We bought for $1.60
a pound and sold it for $2.20. It now
sells for about 60 cents a pound. Coffee
was handled in the green stage at that
time, the housewife roasting and grinding
it after getting it home. The wholesale
price then was from 5 to 6 cents a pound
and we retailed at 12 1-2 cents. The
price for the same quality now is from
25 to 30 cents."
"Not only does the advancing price
of the commodities themselves enter
into the present high cost of living," said
a grocer, discussing the situation, "but
the cost'of doing business is also much
higher than heretofore. Our wrapping
paper is up at least 40 per cent over that
of a year ago, as is also the twine with
which we tie up our packages for the cus
tomer, and, in fact, nearly everything
that we buy that goes into our business
is much higher. The general public
hardly realizes what the merchant is up
against in these 'piping times' of high
prices."
SOCIALIST LECTURE.
"What Socialists Want," is the subject
of a lecture to be delivered Thursday
evening, October 12, at Schell's hall, by
Nellie M. Zeh, of Chicago. The lecture
is said to be very entertaining and in
structive.
Miss Zeh is declared to be an excep
tionally talented speaker and the public
is urged to turn out and hear her. Any
questions pertaining to socialism will be
answered.
NEW ULM, BROWN COUNTY, MINNESOTA, WEDNESDAY, OCT. 11, 1916.
CITY TAX LEVY IS
HIGHER FOR 1917
IMPROVEMENTS TO CEMETERY
REQUIRES $3,000 EXTRA
FOR YEAR
COUNCIL TAKES ACTION ON IM-
PORTANT QUESTIONS AT
MEETING
Fixing the tax levy for the city of New
Ulm, ordering an extension of the elec
tric light lines and the appointment of
election inspectors for the coming No
vember election constituted the principal
business of the city council, which held
its regular monthly meeting at the
council chamber Tuesday night.
Tax Levy Increased
The appropriations for the conduct
of the city's business for the coming
year were placed at $24,000, divided into
the following funds:
Street $10,000
Interest and sinking 5,000
Fire Department 3,000
Public parks 3,000
City cemetery 3,000
.Total .. $24,000
L|st year's levy was. $21,000, being
$3,000 less than that for the present
year? the increase being caused by the
appropriation of $3,000 for improve
ments to the city cemetery, which has
not "heretofore been needed. Last year
there was appropriated $6,000 for the
interest and sinking fund and only
$2,000 to the fire department. The
aggregate to be given those two de
partments, however, will be the same as
before.
Protection For Monument
The Indian monument is to have
more adequate protection. The fact
that the railing around the monument
was recently damaged and partly de
stroyed, brought the need of a change
& $*e attention of the council. -Dif
ferent methods were discussed, Presi
dent Behnke believing that a smaller
grass plat and a high curbing would
afford the best protection, while others
thought the railing should be nearer
the base. It was the universal opinion,
however, that too much space is now oc
cupied by the plat at the intersection
of Center and State streets and the
matter was referred to the committee,
with power to act.
Payments Made On Contracts
The Healy Plumbing & Heating
Company of St. Paul, which has the
contract for water and sewer extensions,
was allowed $5,250 on its contract,
which was ordered paid, City Engineer
M. Norelius reportirg that the St.
Paul concern was entitled to that sum.
The bill of the Kretsch Auto company
for $450 for the Ford Auto truck, used
by the water and electric department,
was referred to the electric light commit
tee, to be paid when the engine to the
truck has been placed in proper cendi
tion. Payment of t^e bill has been
held up, owing to the inability of the
auto company to make the engine work
It was reported that the roof of the
o'd school bu'lding, now used by the
Overall factory, is in a leaking condition.
The matter was referred to the building
and grounds commttee.
The council refused to buy the motor
cycle owned by Chief of Police Klause,
preferring to continue pacing the Chief
rent for its use, as as been done during
the past two years.
The sprinkling assessment against E.
Wicherski for $7.84, was reported unpaid
and placed in his tax assessment.
The request of F. W. Peuser to place a
barber pole on the sidewalk in front of
his place of business, was refused, the
council members agreeing that sush
action would be in violation of the ordi
nance governing signs.
A building permit was granted to John
Schapekahm to re-shingle a building at
422 North Minnesota street, and to H.
N. Somsen for an addition to his building
at the corner of Minnesota and First
North streets. The petition of Fred
Seiter for a permit to erect a temporary
shed was referred to the committee on
fire protection, with power to act.
Election Judges Appointed.
The following judges of election were
appointed: First Ward—Fred Behnke,
Fred Hamann, H. D. Beussmann.
Second Ward—Emil Mueller, Wd.
Eisner, Hugo Gebser.
Third Ward—Christ Filzen, Jr., L. B.
Krook, Charles Brust, Jr.
Henry Engel was re-elected chief of
the fire department \y tke council.
The petition of A. Steinhauser re
questing permission to open the water
5
js^s
main in front of the New Ulm Publish
ing Company building on North Minne
sota street for the purpose of repairing
the pipes leading to that building,
necessitating the tearing up a small
portion of the pavement, was granted.
The work is to be done under the direction
of City Engineer L. M. Norelius, and
after the contractors who laid the paving
have been notified of the intention.
Light Lines to Be Extended.
Four electric light wire extensions
were approved and Superintendent A.
J. Mueller authorized to proceed with
their construction. One of the lines
is to extend out North Minnesota street
from North tenth to North fourteenth
streets, the second on South German
street, the third to the Hauenstein
Brewery and the fourth to the Pioneer
Nursery. The electic committee was
authorized to make a contract with
Wm. Pfaender, Jr., owner of the nur
sery, covering the extra cost for the
construction of the nursey for the
construction of the lines to that place,
before active work is begun, it hav
ing been reported to the council that
Mr. Pfaender would be willing to pay
an extra rate for the service.
Four additional fire alarm boxes were
also ordered, their locations to be de
termined by the fire committee.
The council was addressed by Andrew
Saffert and Charles Stuebe of Stuebe
Brothers, relative to complaints as to
the inaccuracy of the city scales. This
question has been a burning one between
the stock and produce buyers of this
city and the farmers of the vicinity for
some time, but no action was taken by
the council, it being pretty well agreed
that when discrepancies occur the fault
is more with conditions than that of
the different sets of scales involved.
FIRST LYCEUM NUMBER
COMING NEXT MONDAY
Monday evening next will begin the
series of University Extension work for
New Ulm. The first number on the list
is the Meyer-Ten Broeck recital. The
program will be given at the High School
Auditorium and will begin at 8 o'clock.
These artists are well known all over
the country and come to New Ulm
highly recommended for their talent and
training.,, Mr. Mexgr WJIJPBBgLAmeri
can violinist who is rapidly gaming
recognition both at home an abroad. He
is a pupil of the great violin master,
Sevcik. One of his foreign press notices
reads as follows:
"The soloist, Mr. Otto Meyer, was
brilliantly successful in the-\ Mozart
concerto, which received and individual
interpretation at his hands. One of the
artist pupils of Sevcik, Mr. Meyer is, of
course, a finished technician. His tone
is big and warm, and his playing is in
stinct with emotion, but in all he does
there is healthy freshness which does
away with any suspicion of affectation.
A very large audience was present, and
the young American was recalled many
times."
Marie Ten Broeck, pianist, com
menced her piano studies when a child
under Victor Heinze. At sixteen she
made a notable appearance on the con
cert stage and later went to Europe to
study with Godowsky in Berlin. Since
then she has been teaching and con
certizing in America. It is said of her
that she has "beautifully clear fingers
and a lovely tone which she never forces."
Wherever these two gifted musicians
appear together they share the honors
equally between them and it promises
to be an evening of rare enjoyment that
the Current News Club is providing for
the citizens of New Ulm at a very
moderate price.
DITCH PETITION CONSIDERED.
The petition of Louis Bloemke and
others for the construction of ditch No.
41, in the towns of Leavenworth and
Burnstown was considered by the Board
of County Commissioners at a meeting
held Friday.
Carl Case was selected as an ex
perienced and competent engineer to
make a survey of the proposed ditch, and
H. F. Dohrmann, Herman Zellner and
Charles Grussendorf were appointed
viewers of the proposed ditch.
LINDEN PIONEER DIES.
T. J. Kjestad, an old resident of Lin
den, died last week at the home of his
son, John Kjestad in that town. Mr.
Kjestad's death was very sudden, follow
ing a-stroke of paralysis.
He was born in Norway October 27,
1847, and Came to America when a
young man, first settling at Mountain
Lake, moving from there to Linden
many years ago.
The funeral was held from the Kjestad
home, and interment made in the Linden
Lutheran cemetery.
BUSH- «rag
NUMBER 41
ROAD SIGNS HAYE
CLUB'S ATTENTM
COMMERCIAL BODY ALSO TAKES
DEFINITE ACTION ON BAD
PIECE OF ROAD
DISCUSS NUMEROUS MATTERS
OF IMPORTANCE AT FIRST
MEETING
Whether to erect sign boards directing:
tourists along the roads leading to and
from New Ulm, was one of the principal
questions discussed at the first meeting:
held at the New Ulm Commercial Club,
after the summer vacation, at the club
rooms, last Wednesday evening. The
improvement of the bridge crossing the
Minnesota river on the Kuehnel road,
was also given considerable attention.
While the attendance was not so large
as President G. A. Ottomeyer hoped for,
those present displayed great interest in.
any matter that might benefit New Ulm,
either from a financial or civic stand
point.
Black and Yellow Trail Marked
A letter from E. F. Searing, secretary
of the Mankato Commercial Club, read
by President Ottomeyer, said that his
organization had completed marking
the Black and Yellow trail from Mankato
to New Ulm, and from Mankato to
Janesville, a distance of forty-seven
miles in all, and urged the club here to
continue the work westward, and also
through the city of New Ulm.
"The Black and Yellow Trail," the
letter continued, "is now marked the
greater part of the way across the state.
There is a little stretch west of New Ulm,
and a little stretch east of Janesville,
but we are taking steps to have the latter
marked. The trail, which goes from
Chicago to the Yellowstone National
Park~ is the shortest road by 300 miles,
and is the best graded and graveled
road in Minnesota.,/'
The Good Roads Committee to which
had been referred the matter of placing:
signs on the.roads leading out of New
Ulm, reported that nothing had been,
done so far. The committee will make
a further investigation of the matter
and was instructed to report the result
to the board of directors of the club.
If the latter body finds it advisable,,
action" will be immediately taken.
Direct Autoists Through City
H. N. Somsen and W. B. Mather
volunteered to place signs on the tele
phone poles from the Courtland bridge
to the Loretto hospital, directing strang
ers through the city, over the Black and
Yellow trail. Mr. Somsen called at
tention to the fact that the first impres
sion the visitor receives of a town is in
variably the most lasting, and automo
ibilists passing through the city found
that had the citizens taken some little
pains to aid them, that town would
always be favorably remembered.
To Raise Kuehnel Road
Probably the most important business
transacted was the taking of active
steps toward raising the bridge across
the Minnesota river on the Kuehnel
road leading to New Ulm from Nicollet
county and that of the^roadway on
either side of the bridge. A committee
consisting of J. A. Ochs H. N. Somsen
and Fred. Crone was appointed to make
arrangements towards getting the work
started, so that the the high water may
not again impede travel to the city. The
matter was brought up by Mr. Ochs,
who said that now is the time to begin
action, and not wait until the water had
tied up traffic on that highway again.
The city council and the county com
missioners will be asked to make ap
propriations to cover the work as soon
as the cost has been ascertained.
Community Picnic Dropped
vV. B. Mather reported that, as chair
m.i the committee appointed last
sp \rrange for a community picnic
no u-r was done, as the committee
foo ^v.J there seemed to be bat little
in. si ia the proposed affair and it had
be HO wed to drop.
Fci- various reasons the White Way
lights from Minnesota street to tne
the Minneapolis & St. Louis depot and
also to the Chicago & Northwestern
station will probably not be installed
before next spring, Mr. Somsen, chair
man oi the committee in charge of the
work, reported. He said that $2,500
had been subscribed for the project.
The annual meeting of the club will
be held next month. Three new members
were reported, Elmer Backer, W. G.
Haynes and L. G. Kiland.
1
-tf
*'S
5fe
