1
THE' BARRE DAILY TIME
VOL. XX NO. 177.
BARRE, VERMONT, WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1016.
TRICE, ONE CENT.
DRIVE
GAINS
FORCE
British Have Captured Two
More Towns on the Greek
Macedonian Front, and
the Mounted Troops Have
Reached Point Only Two
Miles South of Seres
$1,000,000 POWER CO.
IS INCORPORATED
OFFENSIVE HITS
BULGARIANS HARD
Serbians Have Been Making
Important Progress South
of Monastir The British
Movement Is Undoubtedly
Intended to Relieve Press
ure on Rumanians
Central Power Corporation of. Vermont
Plans to Develop Water Powers on
Middlebury River and Furnish Elec
tric Current for Barre and
Other Places.
The Central Power Corporation of Ver
mont, having complied with certain re
quests made by the public service com
mission in respect to inserting an amend
ment to the charter of the corporation,
ha filed articles of association with the
secretary of state. The corporation in
tends to develop water rights and powers
on the Middlebury river and its branches
and tributaries and to construct, opcrat
and maintain auxiliary steam plants for
generating and distributing electric pnw-
er in Barre and in certain towns ot Auai
son. Orange and Washington counties.
The principal office is at Middlebury.
The capital stock is $1,000,000, with
10,000 shares and the subscribers are
Charles H. Thompson, B. A. Sumner, 1).
K. Lillie and H. J. M. Jones of Montpe
lier, G. II. Stuart and Albert T. Stuart
of Newton, Mass., and Alexander Gordon
of Barre.
BIG LEVY TO
CARRY ON WAR
British House of Commons
Asked for $1,500,-
000,000
ALL LODGES REPRESENTED
GARDINER'S
HOME RUN
WOULD BRING TOTAL
TO $15,000,000,000
NOTE FOUND ON TREE
AFTER EXPLOSION
MAY EXPLAIN CRIME
! Saloniki, Oct. 11. British troops have
t occupied two more towns to the eaBt of
the river Struma in Greek Macedonia,
; the British headquarters announces. Brit
1 ish mounted iroops have reached a point
two miles south of Seres.
The sustained character of the offen
sive on the part of the British troops,
which forced the passage of the Struma,
indicates that after several momentary
efforts serious operations have been un
dertaken on the Macedonian front, not
only in the Struma region but in the ter
ritory south of Monastir, where the
Serbians having been making important
progress recently and heavy fighting is
underway. It is probable that these op-
erations are being taken partly to relieve
the pressure on the Rumanians, who are
being hard pressed by the Bulgarians.
St. Stephen's Roman Catholic Church at
Framingham, Mass., Damaged Last
Night Contents of Note Not
Revealed.
Framingham, Mass., Oct. 11. The find
ing of a note pinned with a knife to a
tree near St. Stephen's Roman Catholic
church earlv to-dav save the police f
slight clue from which they hoped to be
able to trace the person responsible for
the damaging of the structure by an ex
plosion last nijrht. The authorities de
clined to make public the contents of the
note. ' A suspect arrested in Brooklyn
has been released.
A large hole was torn in the founda
tion, bricks and mortar were thrown
across the vestry and all the plastering
and windows were shattered. None was
injured although Rev. Fr.' Garrahan, the
assistant pastor, and a number of Sun
day school teachers were in the building.
Rev. Fr. Heffernan, the pastor, said he
was unable to suggest any motive for an
attack on the property and that abso
lutely no threats had been received.
Conscription for Ireland Is
Likely to Figure in Big
Debate Just Opened
FIVE ABANDONED
BOATS FOUND;
MAY BE A CLEW
London, Oct. 11. The House of Com
mons began a consideration of the se
rious problems resulting from the war
with the introduction by Premier As
quith of a new vote of credit. It was ex
pected that the debate would cover the
question of the government of Ireland,
the suggestion of the extension of con
scription to Ireland and obtaining more
men from England, Scotland and Wales
for military service.
The vote of 300.000,000 pounds asked
bv the Commons will bring the total ex
penditure sanctioned since the beginning
of the war to 3,000,000,000 pounds.
A dispatch from Berlin savs the Reich
stag has a bill' for credit of 12,000,000,
0OO marks, which will increase Ger
many'a total to 64,000,000,000 marks.
WOMAN KILLED
AS HORSE RAN
FRENCH CAPTURED
VILLAGE OF BO VENT
And Greater Part of Chaulnes Wood, To
1 gether with 1200 Prisoners, the
Paris War Office An
nounces. Paris, Oct. 11. In fighting south of the
! Pomme river yesterday the French troops
i captured the village of Bovent, the north
and west outskirts of Ablaincourt, and
! the greater part of the Chaulnes wood.
, Prisoners to the number of 1200 were
' taken, according to the official communi
cation issued last night.
, German Assaults Thrown Back.
Paris, Oct. 11. In the course of last
night, the French troops gained more
ground of the river Somme, the French
war office announces. The Germans at
. tacked heavily at Sehoenhaezin in the
Vosges after violent shelling, and pene
trated the French trenches at a certain
point, but were thrown back by the gren
adier corps.
SUBMARINE OFF SOUTHERN COAST.
Vessel of Undertermlned Nationality is
Sighted Off Tybee Bar, Ga.
Savannah, Ga., Oct. 11. The presence
of a submarine of undetermined nation
ality off Tybee bar, below Savannah, yes
terday was reported to local custom
house officials and to the British consul
here, it was learned last night. Officials
at both the customs house and consulate
refused to say where their information
came from, but each emphasized the
statement that it was "entirely unoffi
cial." No American under-sea boats are
believed to be in these waters.
Washington, Oct. 11. Navy depart
ment officials said last night there was
no American submarine in the vicinity
of Tybee bar.
To the Crew of the Steamer Kingstonian
Which Was Reported to Have Been
Sunk by German Submarine.
Newport, R. I., Oct. 11. The finding
of five abandoned ship's boate by the
Spanish steamer Antonio Lopez, reported
in a radio message relayed to the naval
station by the Nantucket lightship, was
considered by officials as the first possi
ble trace of the crew of the steamship
Kingstonian, which was reported to have
been torpedoed by a German submarine
Sunday.
The United States destroyers, which
have been searching for the crew of the
Kingstonian, returned to-day. None of
them reported having found any trace
of the Kingstonian's boats. What be
came of the submarine remained a mys
tery to-day.
Mrs. Gustave Sullham Was Thrown from
Carriage Near Hardwick, Striking
on Her Head and Shoulders.
Hardwick, Oct. 11 Mrs. Gustav Sull
ham, aged about, 70 years, was instantly
killed yesterday afternoon when thrown
from her carriage. With her daughter,
Mrs. Harold Dodge, she was driving to
this village from West Woodbury. Mrs.
Sullham struck on her head and shoul
ders and was dead when help reached her.
1 he accident occurred on what is
known as the Buffalo road. They were
coming down a hill when the horse be
came frightened, probably at the whistle
At 13th District Meeting of Odd Fellows
In Barre,
Representatives of every lodge in the
13th district of Odd Fellows were present
at the district meeting in Barre last
evening when more than 150 Odd Fellows
came together in the rooma of Hiawatha
lodge, no. so. other lodge, i participating gent Two Runners in Ahead
in me nit-cull "civ. vmw"., .-t-i
cadia. No. 153, of Plalnfleld; Gill, No. 57. of Him 111 SeCOIld
of East Barre; W lllianistown, No. (14, T
and Washington, No. 7fi, of Washington. Inning
The grand lodge of ermont was repre
sented bv the following officers: .1. G
Rov of East Barnet, grand master! K. A
Spear of Woodstock, deputy grand mas- TiprvrvTT VT WAT
ter; Frank W. .Tackson of Barre, grand txvwuixljlil nAU
secretary; Rev. J. B. Reardon of Barre, SCORED TWICE
grana cnapmin; mr.micr iowimn "
Barre, wand marshal; Judge II. W.
Scott of Barre, past grand represent
tive; R. S. Jeffords of Willlamstown, dis
trict deputy grand master.
After the introduction pf officers at
7:30 o'clock, Warner Wheeler, noble
grand of Hiawatha lodge, gave an ad
dress of welcome and the response for
the visitors was made by Bev. James
Ram age, chaplain of the East Barre
lorice. A response was made also bv
Grand Master Roy. Then followed the Innings
vnmnlii1fAf inn r( ffcrt imHa.tnrv AttfTA I
by Arcadia lodge. Brief reports from Bost. 0 3 RffaZnOCIIIZ
tne several longes were nearn aner mo
initiatory work and then an exemphfica
Hon of the unwritten work was given by
Grand Secretary Jackson.
A banquet brought a very interesting
meeting to its close. The supper was
served bv the women of Bright Star Re-
Fourth Game of World Se
ries Started Off with
Heavy Hitting
123456789 ToUI
Brkn. 2 OHCnCCZIZJ
officers and others.
Ebbets Field, Brooklyn, Oct. 11. Man
ager Robinson of Brooklyn selected Mar
quard to pitch the fourth game in the
bekah lodge and at the exercises brief world series to-day, while Manager Car-
epeeelios were made by the grand lodge rigan of Boston chose Leonard, a new
entry of the series, for his mound sman.
Meyers and Carrigan were the catchers
for the hurlers.
Boston. Brookyln.
Hooper, r. f Johnston, r. f.
lanvnn, 2b Myers, c. f.
Walker, c. f Merkle, lb.
Wheat, 1. f
JUDGE LEFT COURT.
Carrigan, c Meyers, c,
jlonard, p Marquard,
First Inning.
Marquard threw out Hooper at first,
of a Hardwick-Woodbury train which
was stopping at the crossing to take
water. The train crew heard a scream volvine S.VX) guarantee
and several men rushing up the hill
found Mrs. Sullham dead. The daughter
was seriously injured and was uncon
scious for a time. Mrs. Podge was un
able to give an account of how the acci
dent occurred. It is thought that when
the horse bolted, the carriage struck a
rock. Mrs. Sullham leaves a husband, a
son and two daughters.
And Went to Hotel When There Were
No Cases Ready for TriaL
For the first time since court convened
the middle of September there were no ltiki;..i it.
cases ready for hearing in Washington Lewj,,, 'i. 'f . ..' ".".,.'..' ,'cutshaw, 2b!
uiuiHij ii.iui, i..iis luieiiuuu .nil ""u Gardner, 3b Mowrey, 3b
Frank L. Fish returned to his hotel, leav- Scott, ss Olson ss
court reporter.
E. O. Stygles, the Stowe farmer, who
was the driver of the ford machine which
crashed into a post near Waterbury last
week and resulted in the death of the Janvnn struck out. Walker ahto struck
second occupant of the car, Justin Mar- out. No runs, no hits, no errors.
shall, will probably b. brought before! First inning, last half. Johnston hit
Judge Fiwh some time to-day for a hear- Ithe first ball pitched to center field fence
ing on charge of having operated an au- for a triple. Johnston scored on Myers'
tomobile without a license. He was ar- drive paBt Janvnn. Merkle walked.
rested yesterday by Deputy Sheriff A. I Wheat forced Merkle, Gardner to Jan
A. fernery and committed to jail to await vnn. Mvers went to third. On a wild
hearing. It is alleged that Stygles' pitch Wheat went to second. Mvers
license was taken away by the secretary scored when Janvrin fumbled Outshaw's
of state nearly a month ago. grounder. jjheat went to third. On an
the case of Henry n. lnight vs. Ar- attempted double steal v heat was
thur W. MacNeal et al, was argued be- caught off third, Carrigan to .Janvrin to
fore Judge Fish yesterday, the case in- Gardner. MowTey struck out. Two runs,
in a store deal two hits, one error,
DEATH AT WATERBURY.
SHOT TWICE IN NECK.
ARGUED OVER GRANITE.
Then
in
One Man Stabbed the Other
Stomach at Quincy.
Quincy, Mass., Oct. 11. As the result
of an argument over a block of granite
on which they were employed as carvers,
Charles Impilla of 28 Buckley street is
in the Quincy City hospital with a stab
wound in the stomach and John Miandre
of 74 Crescent street is under arrest
charged with assault with a dangerous
weapon.
The argument started at the close of
work and it is claimed Miandre drew a
knife and stabbed Impilla, who was giv
en first aid treatment by Dr. Thomas J.
Dion. 'At the hospital Dr. Dion and J")r.
William J. McCausland found the knife
had entered the abdominal wall about an
inch. Miandre was arrested by Sergt.
Jeremiah Hinchon, who was off duty at
the time, but responded when the stab
bing became known.
Hughes Campaigned in West Virginia.
Clarksburg, W. Va., Oct. 11 Charles K.
Hughes spent to-day campaigning in
West Virginia and goes to Kentucky tomorrow.
St. Albans Woman's Condition Said to
Be Precarious.
St. Albans, Oct. 11. Mrs. Fred Russell
of the Bay is at the hospital in this
city with two bullet holes in her neck
and her husband is in the Franklin coun
ty jail charged with the crime.
At the hospital one bullett was removed
as soon as tne woman was taken there
but her condition was so serious it was
thought best not to try at present to lo
cate the other which went in at the back
of the neck. It is impossible to tell yet
whether she will recover.
After the shooting yesterday, Russell
went to the home of Paul Uonyeau at the
Bay, where he is said to have told his
wife's sister, Mrs. Frank Tromblv, that
he had shot his wife. Shortly after 12,
Chief of Police Mahoney went to the
house and arrested him in a terribly in
toxica ted condition, it is said. The re
volver with which the crime was com
mitted is a 38 calibre American. Two
shells were found exploded and one chain
ber empty. There were two unexploded
shells in the weapon.
Five months ago Russell, who had been
employed by the Willard Manufacturing
company, quit work and began drink
ing heavily, it is said. This caused trou
ble between him and his wife and the
latter went to the home of her foster
parents, Mr? and Mrs. Prosper Rich, of
the Bay. Russell went to the home of
his mother, Mrs. Mary Russell at the
BaV.
Monday evening Mrs. Russell came to
the home of Mr. and Mrs. Ernest Bara
bee of Russell street to spend the night.
Her husband learned of her whereabouts
and went to the house shortly before
noon yesterday. His wife was in the liv
ing room and, according to the story of
Mr. and Mrs. Barabee, the man, without
a word, drew a revolver and fired two
shots.
Mrs. Russell is 22 years old. She was
adopted when young and till her mar
riage she went by the name of Pearl
Rich. Mr. Russell was born at the Bay
23 years ago. They were married four
years ago.
FELL INTO STEAM VAT.
I'nion barber shona in Bur wilt
T1 Am-w likmnrrAW wtA will I
until 0 o'clock to-night.
Evening school at Goddard on Tuesday,
Thursday and FrHay evening from 7 to
9. A fine class this rear that wiU Jo
pood work. You ean join any evening.
Tuitiofl, $10 a tens. adv.
Francis Blodgett Lost His Life at Mont
gomery Center.
Montgomery Center,' Oct. 11. Francis
Blodgett, an employe of Nelson A Hall
Co.'s veneer mill, was killed yesterday
when he fell into a steam vat. It was
some minutes before he was missed by
his fellow employes and when the water
n the Tat was drawn off his body was
found. Physicians think that he must
have struck his head on the rail before
falling Into the water, rendering him un
conscious. Blodgett leaves his wife and three chil
dren. He had resided in town for ten
years.
Mrs. Patrick King Died After 11 Weeks'
Illness.
Waterbury, Oct. , 11. Mrs. Patrick
King, a well known resident here, who
had been in poor health for eleven weeks,
died this morning at her home on Stowe
street. She was born in Kilrish, county
of Clare, Ireland, Aug. 15, 1843, and was
married to Patrick King. He died Nov.
13, 1903.
Mrs. King is survived by four children,
Mrs. T. J. O'Brien, Mrs. Thomas H.
O'Brien, Miss Mary King and Frank
King, the last two being residents of
Waterbury. There are also 13 grandchil
dren, one brother, Martin O'Brien of San
Francisco, and a sister, Mrs. Nora Mc-
Ginnis of Newark, N. J.
The funeral will be held from St. An
drew's church of which Mrs. King was a
devoted member, Friday morning at 10
o'clofk.
which was broken off. E. R. Davis and
E. H. Deavitt represented the plaintiff
and S. Hollister Jackson the defendant.
MRS. JULIA BRUCE.
Widow of William Bruce of Barte Died
at Montpelier.
Mrs. Julia Bruce, widow of William
Bruce, died vestordav afternoon at Ilea-
ton hospital, Montpelier, following two
shocks, one sustained two weeks ago
and the other last Saturday. Mrs. Bruce
was a long time resident of Barre, but
since last summer had been living
Montoelier.
Mrs. Bruce was born in Robbinston, Me.,
the daughter of Robert and Mehitable
Robinson, and would have been 55 years
of age on November 21, next. She was
married 24 years ago to Mr. Bruce, who
passed away in Barre seven years ago.
There are seven children and step-children
surviving, as follows: Mrs. Charles
Williams of Barre, Mrs. E. K. Ellis of
Medford, Mass., Mrs. William C. Taylor
Second Inning.
Second inning, first half. Hoblitzel
walked. Iwis doubled against the right
field fence, Hoblitzel going to third
Hoblitzel and Lewis scored on Gardner's
home run drive to the center field fence.
Wheat dropped Scott's long drive and
the batter made second. Carrigan sacri
flced, Marquard to Merkle, Scott going to
third. Leonard struck out. Hooper went
out to Merkle. unassisted. Three runs,
two hits, one error.
Second inning, second half. Gardner
threw out Olson. Meyers walker. Mar
quard was thrown out by Leonard, Mey
ers going to second. Scott threw out
Johnston at first. No runa, no hits, no
errors.
AM IMPOSING CEREMONY
As Episcopal Clergy Opened Convention
in St, Louis.
St. Louis, Oct. 11. Arrayed in rich ec
clesiastical robes, bishops of the Protest-
BARRE PEOPLE INVITED
To Participate in Co. H Celebration at
Montpelier Thursday.
Secretary Phelps of the Barre Board of
Trade has received a letter from Seere
tary Kelty of the Montpelier Board of
Trade, inviting Barre people to partici
pate in extending a welcome to the boys
of Co. II to-morrow (Thursday), the en
tertainment to consist of a parade in the
forenoon, beginning at 10 oclock, and
dance in the citv hall from 8 o'clock to 1.
Secretary Kelty 's letter is as follows:
I am authorized by the organization
which is to give the members of Company
H a celebration, to invite you and the
citizens of Barre through you to attend
the paradeat 10 a. m. Thursday and free
dance at city hall from 8 to 1, with Car
roll's orchestra in attendance. If your
citizenship desires to participate in the
parade, either by automobile, team or on
foot, they may reel at home in so doing.
NEW C. V. DIRECTOR.
W. M.
Was
MacPherson of Montreal
Chosen To-day.
St. Albans, Oct. II. W. M. MacPher
son of Montreal was to-day elected a di
rector of the Central Vermont Railway
Co., to fill the vacancy caused bv the
death of John W. Stewart of Middlebury.
Other directors elected at the annual
meeting were E. J. Chamberlin of Mont
real. Edward C. Smith of St. Albans, W.
H. Bigger of MontreaL Charles R. Bapp
of Boston, E. A. Chittenden and O. C.
Jones of St. Albans, S. E. Kilner and
H. F. Marston of New York City, Charles
P. Smith of Burlington, J. Gregory Smith
of St. Albans, A. Tuttle of Fair Haven
and W. Seward Webb of Shelburne.
The directors elected officers aa fol
lows: Chairman of the board, E. J.
Chamberlin; president, E. C Smith;
vice-president, W. H. Bigger; auditor.
E. Deschene of St. Albans; treasurer
and clerk. W. H. Chaffee of St. Albans.
Reports submitted showed the follow
ing equipment on hand: 32 passenger en
gines, 63 freight engines, five switching
engines, J9 passenger coaches, two cafe
parlor cars, two parlor cars, one dining
car, 12 combination passenger and bag
gage coaches, 31 baggage, mail and ex
pre cars and two milk cars; also 3.147
freight and work cars. At present, the
.111 V. t-! 1 U 1. 1 1 41..
of Shelby, Mont., il nam McCreedv of i f r , . ...
Websterville. Mrs. James Glidden, Miss
Roxana Bruce and Miss Julia Bnice of
Montpelier. There are also a sister, Mrs,
Jessie Trimble of Cambridge, Mass., and
two brothers, Alvin W. Robinson and
Charles Robinson, both of South Robbin
ston. Me. Mrs. Bruce was an attendant
at the Methodist church.
The funeral is to be held Thursday
afternoon at 2 o'clock from the home
of her daughter, Mrs. Charles Williams,
230 South Main street, Barre, and in
terment will be in Elmwood cemetery.
DEATH OF MRS. CARRIE DIKE.
Was Taken HI Two Weeks Ago and Died
Last Night After Operation.
Mrs. Carrie Dike of 11 Brook street;
who was operated on at the City hos
pital Monday night for a very senous
case of appendicitis, died last evening at
6 o'clock. She had been sick for two
weeks before being taken to the hos
pital.
Mrs. Dike was born in Klmore Jan. .
1855, and was married 25 years ago to
Georee Dike of Worcester. He died 20
years ago and for some time his widow
had been livinn in Barre. She leaves a
daughter. Miss Maud Dike of Barre. A
sister, Mrs. Julia Harris, died in Barre
two vears ago. Mrs. Dike was a mem
ber of Bright Star Rebekah lodge.
The funeral will be held from her late
residence on Brook street Thursday aft
ernoon at 2 oclock. ana interment will
be in Elmwood cemetery.
EXPECT OVER 200 DELEGATES
To Independent Order of Foresters' Con
vention in Barre Next Week.
Between 200 and 300 members of the
Independent Order of Foresters are com
ing to Barre next week when the high
court of Vermont and New Hampshire
holds its annual convention here. The
dates. Oct, 17, 18 and 19, have been re
served for business and pleasure. The
Barre Board of Trade will give the visit-
the opening session of the 44th triennial
convention of the chlfreh. There were
thousands of spectators and hundreds
unable to obtain admission to the build
ing witnessed the pageant.
To-day's session was one of organisa
tion. Rev. James Freeman of Minneapo
lis opposed Rev. Alexander Mann of Bos
ton as a candidate for re-elation as pres
ident of the house of deputies.
COMPULSORY INSURANCE
Recommended for All American Wage
Earners German System Favored.
Atlantic City, Oct. 11. In a report
submitted to-day to the convention of
the American Electric Railway associa
tion, the special investigation committee
recommended compulsory hfe, health and
accident insurance for all American
wage-earners. The German svstem was
advocated.
BEECKMAN RENOMINATED
For Governor of Rhode Island By Re
publicans.
Providence. R. I., Oct. 11. At the Re
publican state convention held here to-
dav. Governor Beeckman and United
States Senator Lippitt were renominat
ed.
TWO AMERICANS KILLED.
By German Gunfire Directed at British
Aeroplanes.
Amsterdam, Oct. 11. Two Americans
were killed in Brussels by German gun
fire directed against British aeroplanes,
according to tcho Dclge.
Prof. L. L. Conant Killed By Auto Truck.
Worcester, Mass., Oct. 11. Prof. L? L.
Conant of the Polytechnic institute was
killed by an automobile truck to-day.
A Hartford Fire.
ing delegates a trip through some of the I
cutting plants and to the quarries j Hartford Conn Ort ll.-TV carnage
Wednesday morning. A reception to the I bu,W.ln P1" of James Pullar Co.,
morning. A recept
visitors will be given Tuesday evening
and Wednesday evening there will be a
public meeting in Howland hall with
George A. Mitchell of Toronto, Ont., as-
was burned yesterday. A gale made the
fire a threatening one, but additional
property damage was not great. One fire
man was injured. The Pullar company's
Prof. Fugue What do von mc?n, Mr.
Jones, by speaking of Dick Wagner. Lu-
istant supreme chief ranger of the For- '0
esters, as the principal speaker. Harvey
IJoyd, an entertainer well known in Can
ada, and Harold Trombley will take part
in the program. Business sessions of the 'die Beethoven, Charlie Gounod am Fred
high court will be neia in me nm in m-. iinnuri i
Scampini building ued by the local court i Jones Well, you told me to Let fa-
mmpany controls 701.8 miles of track, of of Independent Foresters. The ronven- milUr with the great composers Muni
tion wiU adjourn Thursday lorenoon, cat America,
SMALL WORK DONE
BY ALDERMEN
Barre & Chelsea R. R. Wants to Use
Small Piece of City Land for Brake
Testing Purposes Minor
Building Permits
Sought.
If the boHrd of aldermen were whit
tiers instead of statesmen then some
edges of the oak board around which
they gather in the council chamlier at
city hall would have been pared into
shavings while a quorum was in the mak
ing at the regular session last night.
Chairman Glysson and Aldermen Bruce
and Reynolds were the punctual ones,
with Alderman Rossi appearing after a
halt-hour's wait and Aldermen Healv
and Shurtlcff among the absentees. May
or Gordon was present but custom, dish
ing and the ordinances prevented mm
from converting the meet.ng into a coun
cil session in order to transnct the small
accumulation of business (iresciited by
the clerk.
Barre & Chelsea railroad officials, Supt.
A. A. Stebbins, Atty. If. C. Shurtlcff and
Fngineer Watson, presented a blueprint
plan of a siding extension which the
company proposes to use for testing air
brakes. I lie proposed extension is to
skirt Enterprise alley and the presence
of the officials was explained in a request
to push the siding ncrons a small turn
out for teams which the road gave the
city when the river led was changed. If
allowed, the extension will traverse a
strip of city land some 35 feet in length,
nd, according to the railroad company,
will in nowise interfere with traffic. It
developed during the hearing that the
turnout, so called, is seldom used by
teamsters, who prefer to turn their
horses at a point several rods away from
the turnout. Supt. Stebbins explained
hat the. heavier requirement of air
brakes on the hill line made it patent
hat an adequate testing track be estab-
ihei in the Barre vard. this in order to
obtain the 100 per cent degree of effi-
iencv sought by the company in its air
brake service.
The aldermen took kindly to the pro
posal end permission to extend was
granted with the reservation that the
street committee make a personal inves
tigation before submitting to the council
for its approval next week a tentative
agreement. If the present plans of the
company are carried out, the testing
track, extending from a point near Pros
pect street to several yards beyond the
turn-out in the rear of the Allies build
ing, will be used for testing and not for
revenue purposes.
Mayor Gordon, reporting on the mat
ter of inscribing the granite slabs in Jn
city hall entrance with the names of
Barre men who enlisted in the war be
tween the states, quoted E. L. Smith,
one of the original committee, tia saying
that the inscription plan, as he under
stood it, had been abandoned in favor of
raising funds for the erection of a sol
diers' monument. It developed that per
son concerned in the slab memorial
could not agree on the length of the in
scription and the style of the letters.
Apparently the city fathers will not
tinker with the Inscriptions this year.
Attv. ,.T. Ward Carver presented a bill
from Dr. P. R. Duffy, lately city physi
cian, for 9J3.33, the balance, according to
the claimant, of money due him for serv
ices. There was a difference of opinion
as to whether the city should be paying
the doctor for a period when other phy
sicians were being paid to do his work
and the bill was referred to the chgrity
committee with instructions to investi
gate and recommend.
Overseer W. J. Clapp of the charity
department had a wholesome looking re
port for the month of August, a report
which indicated that the net expense to
the city for its poor amounted to less
thnn $500, or $400.70. to be exact. The
sum of $700 was appropriated, there was
balance of $55.16 and the earnings of
indigents and money due from other
towns aggregated $120.02. The report
was accepted for filing.
Building permits were granted the fol-
owing applicants on the favorable re
port of the inspector: Mrs. Sheplee, to
re-cover roof on West street; Harmon
Potter, to reshingle on South Main
street; A. B. Wheeler, to reshingle on
Central street; Mrs. R. N. Austin, to re
shingle on Center street; A. S. Mas!, to
build a store addition at. 3fl South Main
street; Homer Ooteau, to build a piazza
on North Seminary street; Harrison
GTanite Co., to raise office building near
Center street; Barre Savings bank, to
build a stoneshed addition on . Smith
street.
The report of the wiring inspector was
accepted in full and permits went to the
following applicants: M. A B. I.. A P.
Co., 19 domestic meters; Steele Granite
Co., motor on West street; R. Calcagni.
wire for Berlin street barn; W. H. West
cott, garage lights, 20 Nelson street; G.
Tomasi, domestic lights, 37fl South Main
street; William Stephen, lights, 5(5 Pleas
ant street; Clarkson company, store
lights, Morse block; O. H. Hale, store
lifrhts. Granite street. John H. Rishop
of Beacon street and Mrs. Gonlon of
Branch street were granted permission
to move small henhouses.
A resolution appropriating $500 to the
salary account was read for the second
time and adopted. After some discus
sion, most of which was explanation to
some of the members who did not under
stand the reason for the appropriation, a
warrant giving $300 to the Aldrich pub
lic library for expenses was addinl to the
weekly grist and approved. Other war
rants approved were: Street department
payroll. $428S. street, sprinkling, sew
er, surface sewer, sidewalk and health
accounts; water department payroll,
$54.18; fire department payroll. $03.21;
police deportment payroll. $05.14; G. A.
llemis, $14. services as janitor; George
W. Gorman, post master, $21.3(1. postage,
printing mid tationery account.
STATE W.C.T.U.
IN CONVENTION,
42d Annual Gatb'JT'.ng of the.
Organizatior Being ,
Held in arre
LARGE ATTENDANCE
ALREADY RECORDED
Delegates and Officers Were
Welcomed Pleasantly
Last Evening ,
w bah 6.2 miles are double-tracked.
CO. H. MEMBERS AT HOME.
Reached Montpelier Yesterday Afternoon
and Dispersed.
Members of Company H arrived in
Montpelier from Fort Kthan Allen at
2:30 o'clock yesterday afternoon, nearly
an hour before the expected time of ar
rival, and as a result only a small num
ber of people were on hand at the station
to give them a welcome. The band es
corted them to the armory, and the sol
diers were greeted enthusiastically along
the streets as thev marched bv. Most of
the company spent last night at their
homes for the first time sim-e early sum
mer, and all seemed delighted to return
after the several months' sojourn at
Eale Tass, Trx.
General officers present numbered 23
and the enrollment of delegates was
Hearing 100 when the second session of
the 42d annual convention of the Ver
mont Woman's Christian Temperance un
ion began in the Hedding Methodist
church. After the customary reception
last evening, the convention got down
to business in earnest this morning when
the session was called to order at 9
o'clock. Officers are looking for the larg
est convention attendance in the history
of the Vermont union.
Mrs. Minnie h. Pearson of Orleans, the
president, was in the chair at the open
ing exercises to-day. The rollcall in
cluded only the officers present, as it
was decided to postpone the closing of
the delegates' register until those coming
from a distance have had time to enroll.
Officers reported informally on the
achievements of the year and when ad
journment was taken at noon, dinner
was served in the vestry of the church.
Dinners and suppers arc prepared for the
accommodation of the visitors each day
of the convention. This afternoon at
1:30 o'clock those of the local presidents
who had enrolled told brief stories of
what each union has accomplished since
the. last convention. One of tho enjoy
able features was a solo by Mrs. Grace
W. Cutler. Rev. Malxd T. Winch of East
Arlington was expected to give an ad
dress late in the afternoon on the sub
ject, "Educating Public Sentiment," and
Miss Mary F. Anderson, who addressed
the delegates last evening, was to con
tinue her talk.
Many were present for the public re
ception last evening and a program that
left no doubt of the warmth of the wel
come which Barre temperance workers
have for the visiting delegates and offi
cers was carried out in tho form of a
symposium. In the receiving line were
the following officers: President, Mrs.
Pearson; vice-president-at-large. Mrs.
Gratia E. Davidson of Orleans; first vice
president, Mrs. L. F. Kezer of Rochester;
secretary, Miss Elsie L. Pease of Swan
ton; treasurer, Miss L. Grace Prior of
Morrisville. and Mrs. C. E. Smith of
Wells River, editor of the Home Guards,
Those who assisted in receiving were the
following county presidents: Addison,
Mrs. Nellie Manum of Bristol; Benning
ton, Mrs. A. F. Smith of Manchester Cen
ter; Chittenden, Mrs. Emily K. Sanc
tuary of Hinesburg. Lamoille, Mrs. Inez
H. Stewart of Morrisville; Rutland, Mrs.
W. H. H. Avery of Middietown Springs;
Caledonia. Mrs. S. K. Huse of St. Johns
bury Center; Orange, Mrs. Emily D. Tag
gart. of Newbury; Washington, Mrs. C.
S. Richmond of Northfield.
Rev. B. G. I.ipsky. pastor of the Hed
ding church, gave the first address of ,
welcome, speaking in behalf of the
churches. He was followed by Prof. .
O. K. Hollister of Goddard seminary, who
spoke for the Bchools, and C. S. Andrews,
a Barre merchant, spoke in behalf of the
citizens. The Woman's club was repre
sented by Mrs. Alexander Duncan and
Mrs. Grace Waterman, chairman of tho
entertainment committee of Ida Reed
chapter, W. C. T. I'., voiced the plea sum
of Barre temperance workers in welcom
ing the state convention to this city.
Mrs. Gratia Davidson made a pleasing
response for the visitors.
A musical interlude was contributed
by Mrs. Ethel Dickens of Orleans, who
sang a solo. I lie speaker of the even
ing was Miss Mary K W. Anderson of
Boston, who gave her hearers the benefit
of a wide experience in promoting tem
perance work among children. Miss An
derson is closely affiliated with the young
people's department of the W. C. T. I',
and is in constant touch with national
workers, as well as temperance advocates
whose labors carry them into the far
corners of the world. The speaker based
her appeal on the ground that the prin
ciples of temperance should be Inculcat
ed into the youth of the land before the
older and longer organized workers can
hope to triumph over the liquor traffic.
There were many young people in the
audience.
The session this evening opens at 7:30
o'clock with scripture reading and pray
er by Rev. Kdgar Crossland of the First
Presbyterian church. The regular choir
will furnish music and the principal
speaker will lie Mrs. Anna Tillinghast of
Beverly, Mass., who has been assigned
to the topic, "Democracy and the Liquor .
Traffic." To-morrow evening there will
lie prize speaking after a short song
service and prayer. Rev. B. J. Iehigh of
the First Baptist church will be in charge
of the service. Six voung people are t :
participate in the speaking program.
Bv to-morrow morning it is thought
that all of the delegates will have as
sembled and some of the most impor
tant, biifiness of the convention will be
trancted. Miss Kllcn H. Wagner of
Sheldon will lead the devotional service
and at II o'clock officers will be elected
for the ensuing year. Mrs. H. Avery
will lead in a memorial hour of prayer
ju. before adjournment for the noon
hour. The afternoon session will open
with sinning and prayer by Mis Grace
Price. Mrs. Gladys Bradley will contrib
ute a vocal solo and Mrs F. H. Rastall
of Manchester tenter will speak on th
subject. "The Influence of Woman's Vote
on Moral Reforms." Following the in
troduction of while ribbon recruits there
will be mil mc anil an address will be de-
(Continued on eighth page.)
