rv T7
ami
"Pleasure comes through toil
.and not by indulgence and indo
lence, Ruskin."
- :
44 Go often to the house of thy
friend, for weeds choke up the un
used path' Scandinavian Edda.
VOL. X TI, NO. 2
HYDE PARK, VERMONT, WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 11, 11)10.
$1.25 A YEAR
A
ll .11
BIJOU 1V4TRE
W. M. JOHNSfA
jer
THURSDAY
Drama two reels,
"Charles Chaplin."
FRIDAY
"A Traitor to Art" Essanay 8-part
all-star feature.
Vim Comedy "The Sleuth."
SATURDAY
"The Secret of the Night" Essanay
3-part drama, featuring Lillian Drew.
"Losing Weight" Vita comedy.
MONDAY
"The Two Orphans" 3-reel drama.
"Fashion and Fury" Kalem com
edy. TUESDAY
"The Secret of the Submariue."
Selig "Tribune."
"Two Smiths and a Half " comedy.
WEDNESDAY
"The Badge of Courage" 5-reel fea
ture. Matinee, 3 p. m , 6c and 10c; evening,
7 and 8.43, 10c and 15c.
DIAMONDS
This is a good time to buy Diamonds
.and this is the place.
Come In and talk Diamonds with us.
Listen to The Victor Records at same time
H. J. EDMUNDS,
Optometrist and Jeweler,
. Morrisville, Near Depot, Vermont
Everything Way Up
Now is the time to save every scrap
cf old Junk. Telephone or drop a card
to O. K. and you will receive prompt
-service and highest prices.
OSCAR KAHN
Morrisville's Original Junk Man
Telephone, 25-5. Lake Street, Morrisville Vt.
REAL ESTATE
Our busines through Lamoille Coun
ty has grown so rapidly that in order to
give the people of that section as good
service as possible, we have opened an
office In Morrisville, over the postofflce,
and have placed one of our agents, Mr
F. Guimond there, who speaks French
and English, and who will be pleased
to have you oall. write or telephone him
your wants at any time, and he stands
ready to put his time against yours to
render any service possbile.
If you want to sell your property, or
if you want to buy any real estate, we
will be pleased, to have you consult u&
and we think our experience may be of
help to you.
C. J. OBEN & CO.
Home Office, Newport. Vermont.
Branch Office. Morrisville. Vermont
Local Agent, Alvin Aiken, Stowe, Vt,
THE
Economy Store
A FEV ITEMS
Men's Outing Shirts, 50c
Oatsiza Night Robes, 98o
Toweling and Made Towels
Ladies' Dresses Children's Sweaters
Ladies' Waists Handkerchiefs
Ladies Aprons LadieB' Underwear
Hosiery for Men, Women and Children
Outings, 10 to 12c.
A New Line of Ribbons
Homemade Candy the best ever at
E.J. Mills, Portland Street, Morrisville.
SATURDAY
we will hold a
TEN CENT SALE
from two until five o'clock
When Unusual Values Will Be Given
MRS. 0. M. TAYLOR
Champeau Block, Morrisville, Vermont
AT SALEEBY'S
We are Now Showing Com
plete Assortments in
Every Line of Fall and
Winter Wearing Ap
parel for men, women
and children.
We have just unpacked some of the most attractive
models which are shown this season in Women's Coats and
Dresses and Suits. You can select a Suit, Coat or Dress
from among hundreds of different styles, and we have the
size to fit most any woman, from the Misses size 14, to the
stout, size 52. We aim to properly fit the large and stout
as well as the small size woman.
Great assortment of Children's and Girls Coats from
size 2 to 14. .
4
Men's and Boys' Suits and Overcoats
AT THE OLD LOW. PRICE.
We are showing this season as good values in Men's
and Boys' Suits and Overcoats as we have ever offered.
Every Fall and Winter Suit and Overcoat we now have
in our stock was ordered last winter before the big advance
in price of materials which took effect last spring. So we
are in a position to offer you Suits and Overcoats in the
latest Fall models at the old low price while this stock lasts.
We are ready to furnish you with anything else in the
line of Fall and Winter Wearing Apparel and Footwear and
CAN SAVE YOU MONEY.
A. J. SALEEBY
"THE STORE THAT SAVES YOU MONEY."
JOHNSON, VERMONT
BUSINESS NOTICES.
Wanted. To buy some Shoats, weighing
about ioo pounds. A. W. Waite, Morrisville.
Horses Foe Sale One Pair Black Mares,
2750 lbs.j one Pair Mares, i bay. i gray, 2650 lbs,
. o. t-AGB, Hyde ram,
Wanted. Two steady Men for farm, by
montn. uood pay, steady employment.
E. N. Gray, Morrisville, R. D. 3,
Cash Paid. Highest Cash Price paid for
waives, v.neap lows, uuiisana nogs.
Tel.124-31 John Miner, Kyde Park.
For Sale Choice Voung Stock, some regis'
tered, price reasonable; also, lew Cows about to
freshen; seventeen 12-weeks-old Berkshire Pigs,
JS75. will loan tor keep, a couple horses to re'
sponsible parties. Tel. 37-10.
Mrs. Mary Austin was a guest of Mrs
Eya Foss in Eden Sunday.
The Library and Bank will be closed
Thursday, Columbus Day.
Remember the Perlroth auction next
Saturday. Everything must be sold.
Miss Susan Delano of the University of
Vermont was a visitor here Thursday.
Miss Minnie Bliss spent Sunday with
her friend, Miss Izola LaBounty.in Cam
bridge. ,
Ellis Bridge, who went to Swanton
about a week ago, has a position in the
munition factory.
iirs. n. a. uuriee 01 saiem, J. x.. 19
spending some time with her daughter,
Mrs. O. D. Howe, and family.
Several members of the local W. C. T.
U. went to Barre yesterday to attend
the State W. C, T. U. Convention.
Mrs. Henry H. Small has a crimson
rambler which has 17 clusters of buds
and blossoms in all stages of maturity,
Mrs. F. H. Cram went to Boston Mon
day morning for a visit with her sons,
Glenn Cram and Harold Oram, and fam-ily.
Several officers and members of the lo
cal W. O. T. U. went to Barre Tuesday
to attend the annual State meeting of
that organization.
Rev. Thatcher of Wolcott will preach
at the local Pentecostal church next Sun.
day at 2 p, m. The public iscordially in
vited to this service.
Mrs. Henry S. Greene of the south
part of town picked two branches from
wild raspberry bushel Friday, which
were covered with fruit both ripe and
green.
Henry Grant of Bakersfkld, who is em
ployed in M. B. Eaton & Son's tinshop
and plumbing business, has moved his
family here and is occupying the Wilson
house on Bridge street.
Jamie R. Joslyn of Peoria, 111., who
has been spending a vacation at bis
former home in Waitsfield, spent Satur
day and Sunday with his cousins, Mr,
and Mrs. E. S. Robinson.
Mrs. H. . E. Whilcomb returned to her
home in Somerville, Mass., Tuesday
night. She has been visiting her parents,
Mr. and Mrs. M. B. Eaton and an aunt,
who is ill at Fanny Allen hospital.
Mrs. EKvin Churchill returned Satur
day evening from a two weeks' visit
with her parents, Mr. and Mrs. Charles
Chamberlain in Canaan. Her uncle,
Frank H. Chamberlain, is a guest at the
Churchill home.
The village fathers inaugurated an
improvement the past week which
will be appreciated by all, by installing
eectric lights over the four faces of the
town clock. The lights were turned on
for the first time last Friday night.
Harold H. Fisher left Friday for Potts
town, Pa., to resume his workasinstruc
tor in the Hills school. He was accom
panied to Burlington by his parents, Mr
and Mrs. H.J. Fisher, and his brother
and wife, Mr. and Mrs. C. M. Fisher.
Mrs. Clara Crowell went Friday to
Johnson, where she was a guest of Mr.
and Mrs. Lee Carpenter. Mrs. Crowell
attended the celebration of the 50th
wedding anniversary of Mr. and Mrs. B.
T. Ober, which was observed in an in
formal way Saturday.
Olaude Chaffee, who lives on the Cole
place, north of Morristown Plains, was
taken to Fanny Allen hospital last Thurs
day night by Dr. Johnstone. They were
taken by M. B. White in his auto. A
brother, Ward Chaffee of Stowe, also ac
companied the party. A successful oper
ation for appendicitis was' performed Fri
day. The comedy drama, "A Soul Revealed",
given at town hall Monday evening, was
one of the best one-nightcompanies visit
ing Morrisville in some time. The play
as a whole was good and the acting and
specialties up to the average. The per
formance was worthy of a good sized
audience, but did not draw over 50 paid
admissions.
The Brigham Milk Company's large
factory, facing the railroad on the Waban
avenue extension, is practically complet
ed and the company now bas two large
LAMOILLE CO. POLITICS
Tracy to Run as Independent
W. E. Tracy of Johnson, who was de
feated at the Primary for State's Attor
ney on the Republican ticket by M. P.
Maurice of Morrisville, has filed his peti
tion as an Independent signed by 26
voters all residents of Johnson. His name
will therefore, be printed on the county
ballot as an Independent for that office.
Prohibitionists Failed to File
TheProhibitionists having failed to file
their list of nominees for'county offices
with the Clerk within the time fixed by
law, which was last Saturday, that
party will have no place on the county
ballot. In order to vote for any of the
nominees it will be necessary to write in
the name.
County Committees
Following are the new County Com
mittees :
Republican D. A. Barrows, Johnson ; L.
L. Harris, Stowe ; B. E. Reynolds,
Cambridge.
Democratie-F. P. Collins, Eden ; E. C.
Wells, Waterville ; Oscar N. Campbell,
Hyde Park ; A. G. Small, Morristown;
II. E. Shaw, Stowe.
Local Fans Get Returns
A party of fans, not quite so large but
just as enthusiastic as in former years,
have been receiving the returns by play
of the great World Series games, at the
Club house of the Lamoille Valley Gun
Club. "Jim" Kelley manipulated the
telegraph key and Win Olmstead and M.
P. Maurice acted as umpires, announcing
the result to the audience.
The games' to date stand as follows:
Saturday, Boston 6, Brooklyn 5; Mon
day, Boston 2, Brooklyn 1, fourteen inn
ings played; Tuesday, Brooklyn 4, Bos
ton 3.
During the game Saturday the news of
the arrival of the German submarine off
Newport, was received at the Gun Club
only about half an hour after its arrival.
THE EARLE STORE
Ladies' Wool Shirts
,' Our Ladies' Wool Skirts have come in this week and they
are a oice assortment. They are made in good style-:, are comfort
ably full and are simplv all right, for they are the "Viets" Skirts.
Outings
Are here in abundance and are all haod9ome patterns. You
will be surprised at the quality of the goods for 10 cents.
The Kimona Cloths
Are simply handsome and of the best quality; some of them
with borders and some without. Be sure to see them before pur
chasing. Bed Blankets
Are also among the new arrivals. We have them in all
grades.
About Coats
Just remember we have one of the best assortments of La
dies' and Misses' Garments we have ever shown, They are a win
ter garment in every sense, for they have the warm leel and are
heavy. Just see if we cannot save you money.
New Shipment of Velvets, Velveteens, Silks and Valencienes Laces
GEORGE F. EARLE
Morrisville,
Vermont
(Si
PORTLAND STREET, MORRISVILLE VERMONT.
International auto trucks started oil
milk gathering routes, which cover a
large dairying section in this county.
Glenn Stone of Morrisville is driving one
of the trucks.
Serious Fire Averted
Last Saturday morning at 1:30 o'clock
the tannery whistle sounded a long
alarm of fire and a large number of the
members of the 6re department respond
ed promptly. The alarm was sounded
for a blaze in an incipient stage in the
large pile of shavings in the rear of
Morse's mill. The smoke and a slight
blaze was first discovered by Dennis
Cleveland, who was acting as night-
watchman at the tannery. After sound-
rig the alarm Mr. Cleveland and Abbott
! Amsden, the watchman at the mill, put
out the fire before the firemen arrived.
A careful investigation has been made
of the cause of the blaze and it is thought
probable that a careless smoker passing
behind the mill dropped a cigarette at
the edge of the pile of shavings, which
but for the lucky discovery, might have
resulted most disastrously.
Lilley Wagon Business Sold
Mrs. Mary Camp has sold the Lilley
Wagon Co's business located on Pleas
ant street, which has been conducted in
Cady's Falls and Morrisville for many
years to F. E. Thompson of Winooski
and possession was given Monday. The
new proprietor intends to keep the same
help that has been employed by the firm
for a number of years and will continue
the business along the same lines, al
though it is understood that he will en
large the business later. Mr. Thompson
a not nersonallv in cbaree yet, but will
move his family here as soon as possible.
The business was purchased of the Lil
ley estate about ten years ago by the
lot A. Nrwinn CamD. who built the
present commodious quarters in Morris
yille. L
O. E. S. District Meeting
The twenty-third annual District Meet
ine of the O. E. S., aooording to a pro
gram and Invitation to the Grand Officers
and members of Distnct Ho. 0, issuea oy
D. D. G. M., Mrs. Emma B. Spear of
Morrisville, will be held at Jefferson
ville un Thursday, October 19.
Mrs. Rosepha Palmer of Johnson has
been a guest the past week of relatives in
town.
Perley Lanpher of Boston has been vis
iting his mother, Mrs. H. T. Kellogg, and
other relatives in this vicinity.
Allen Phillips has been in Rutland the
past week, where he is employed by the
United Construction Company,
The condition of O. O. Robinson, who
underwent an operation at Fanny Allen
hospital last week, is improving satisfactorily.
Mrs. Morton Cheney of Lyndon bas
been a guest the past few days of her
father, Joseph Sherman, at Cadys Falls
and brother, W. F. Sherman.
Artber Stewart, who spent the sum
mer with his parents, Mr. and Mrs. James
Perry, is now nicely located in bis new
position at bookkeeper for the Simple
Time Recorder Company in Gardner,
Mass.
Cold weather is here. So are our complete lines of
MEN'S AND BOYS'
1
Heavy Clothing, Underwear, Mackin
avs, Sweaters and Flannel Shirts
AS A LEADER, we are offering U-Neck Sweaters $9 50 val
ues lor $8.50. There are only one dozen, and they may
be had in either Crimson or Green. .
By the way, have you seen th e new Beacon and Pack
ard Shoes lor Men? They are some nitty shoes! You don't
have to take our word for that, just come in and examine 'em.
The International Tailoring Company is at your service
and, as agent for Morrisville, we guarantee the fit, style and
wearing qualities of every International Madeto-Measure
garment sold. ' ! 5 .
HYDE PARK r
2 See pages 3 and 4 for more news.
No business at the banks tomorrow, it
being Columbus Day.
Mrs. Nora Scofield is visiting relatives
at Orleans and Barton.
Senator Pagecontinues to improve. He
will remain at Rutland a few days longer.
Geo. Rutstein of Boston was in town
to-day, looking after the Cheese Factory
interests.
Thos. Finnegan is having a vacation
from his bank duties and he and his wife
are visiting in Boston and vicinity.
The Odd Fellows' district meeting will
be held at Hardwick Tuesday evening,
October 24th. Bliss Lodge of this place
is to work the First Degree at that time.
S. P. Pinney of Passumpsic, Vt., Mr.
and Mrs. J. M. Pinney and daughter
Freda of Blanco, Colo., are visitots at
F. B. Noble's. The Colorado party came
by auto 2800 miles.
There will be a "Rummage Sale" Fri-
diy and Saturday of this week, afternoon
and evening at Odd Fellows' Hall. Those
who have contributions for this affair are
requested to bring or send them in Thurs
day. Homemade candy on sale Friday
evening and the food sale on Saturday-
Proceeds are for benefit of new Library.
Great opportunity this for bargains.
Red Cross Meeting. Harry S. How
ard of Burlington, treasurer of the Ver
mont branch of the American Red Cross
Society, will present the work of that
organization at Hyde Park next Sunday
at 7.30 p.m. The meeting will be held in
the opera house, instead of the Congre
gational church as previously announced.
The Red Cross relieves suffering in war
or disaster in all countries, and is un
denominational. Mr.Howard is a son of
the late Gen. Howard. A cordial invi
tation is extended to all who would like
to know more of the Red Cross Work
No collection 1
Hyde Park Library
J. W. Burgeron, the contractor for the
building of the new library, was in town
Saturday and finished the work, deliver
ing the keys to the committee. That the
building is a fine one is admitted by all.
It is more than a "fine one," it is well
built nothing slighted in either material
or workmanship, It reflects great credit
upon the contractor and also for the
building committee, especially H.M. Mc
Farland, the chairman, who has spent a
great deal of time in looking after the
details. The town is certainly under
obligations to him tor the care and at
teution he has given the same. It is a
library of which the town can be justly
proud.
TIE IW COIM STORE. HYDE PARK
Our Fall Line of Ladies', Men's and Children's Shoes
is now complete. We can show yon the best possible weanug values to be found.
Every Shoe guaranteed. The Ladies' Shoes are priced f 1.75, a 50, 2 75, 4 00, 5.00
nd 5 25. Men's Dress Shoes $2 50, 3.00, 4.00 and 4.50. Don t fail to ask to see
our Wonseam, every-day Shoe, for Men and Boys, made in black and tao with
ONE SEAM. No seams to hurt feet or rip and no seams to cause Shoes tor leak.
Men's Wonseam priced ft.oo, 3.5a Tan, Elk sole, 2. 50. Boys' Wonseam fl.85
to a.50, according to size. Boys' Gun Metal Shoes i-50, 1.75 and 2 00. Child
ren's Sensible Scud School Shoe in black and tan at $1.75 is and 2.00 particularly
worthy of a trial. Shoes for Small Children 25c, 50c, 80c, 90c and $1 25.
WHY BAKE BREAD NEXT SATURDAY?
Bargain Day Specials, Saturday, Oct. 14th, only:
Three Loaves of Strictly Fresh Bread 25 cents
Two Pairs of Men's Woolen Stockings 25 cents
Yourl for business
A. J. CLARIC, Hyde ltarlc.
