The Alliance
He
The Leading Paper
of Western
Nebraska
RALD EXTRA!
a
READ BY EVERY MEMBER NEBRASKA STOCK GROWERS ASSOCIATION. ALL THE NEWS OF ALLIANCE AND WESTERN NEBRASKA
OFFICIAL ORGAN NEBRASKA VOLUNTEER FIREMEN'S ASSOCIATION. IT REACHES HEADQUARTERS FOR 15,000 FIREMEN
VOLUME XXIII
ALLIANCE. POX BUTTE COUNTY, NEBll ASK A, MONDAY. MAKt'll fi. 191f.
NUMBER 1ft
A
BANQUET AT LEXINGTON
OF DEPARTMENT BOYS
Chief Tillery Acts ns Host ami Toast
master at Banquet That Shows
"Pep" in Islington lept.
On Tuesday night, February 29,
1916, the Lexington Volunteer Fire
Department pave their annual ban
quet at their hall. While the crowd
was not as large as had been antici
pated on account of several conflict
ing dates, a fine crowd of representa
tive firemen and their wives or lady
friends and guests were present to
enjoy the evening. After several
games of cards and checkers every
body marched to the tables under the
beautiful strains of music furnished
by Maher's orchestra. After a short
talk by Toaatmaster Chief Tillery, iu
which he bade everyone welcome,
and extended the Invitation to 'eat,
drink and be merry" to one and all,
he asked his guests to be seated.
"His guests' they certainly were in
a full sense of the word, for it was
through the liberality of our esteem
ed chief that we were able to enjoy
this banquet. Judging by the
amount of extra "helpings" brought
out to the diners they undoubtedly
enjoyed what was set before them.
The menu consisted of sandwiches,
coffee, Ice' cream and cake.
When theapprl-H,esaf one and all
had been appeased they repaired to
the club room where Chief Tillery
announced that Invitations had been
extended to State Fire Commissioner
Rldgell, and Lloyd C. Thomas of Al
liance, N. S. V. F. A. publicity secre
tary, as speakers of the evening, but
regretted that neither of these dis
tinguished gentlemen were able to
be present, not having been able to
hear from Mr. Kidgell, and reading a
telegram from Mr. Thomas express
ing his regrets at not being able to
be present.
We highly appreciate the consid
eration shown us by Mr. Thomas in
sending us this .telegram- of three
hundred words, which was a small
speech in itself, but one and all of
ua would most certainly have been
overjoyed to shake the hand that has
been such an outstanding factor
writing out "Publicity Stuff" for our
great association.
Mr. Tillery then announced that he
would call on some of the guests for
speeches, calling first on Assistant
Chief Roudebaugh for a report of the
proceeding of the convention of N.
S. V. F. A. at Crawford, which re
port was given In detail.
George C. Gillan then addressed
his audience on the value of a com
petent tire department and compe
tent fire lighting apparatus, making
an appeal for a new city hall with ad
equate quarters for firemen and tire
, apparatus, and pledging his personal
support for a move to build a new
fire hall, and complimenting the vol
unteer firemen of the entire state for
acts of bravery displayed and th
willingness shown by them to turn
out to fires day or night, regardless
of extreme weather conditions, with
out pay or recompense of any kirn!
Prof. Streeter of the Lexim- ;i
high school brought down the ! u.-t
with applause by his humoro-i talk
on firemen and their wt . whlih
space unhappily forbids ir u rcpoit.
Mayor James A. Byrne impressed
upon his audience the dir necessity
of a new city hall for the it of Lex
ington, and pledi-id his support of
the movement started hy the depart
ment for a new halt.
Isaac N'isley, department counsel
lor, cor pliuiented the department on
the past and present recoid "f the
Lexington Fire Department, and the
standing in regard to other lire de
partments throughout the state of
Nebraska, its ability to fight tires and
honors won at state tournaments, al
so the good effort of the boys to
maintain such a good body of men
when compelled to rent their own
hall, and rely to a great extent on
their own resources (or what has
been accomplished.
Chief Tillery then read an article
from the Firemen's Herald on tire
prevention, and made some timely
and interesting personal remarks on
fire prevention. The reading of in
surance companies and lire commis
sioner's report on standing of this
department and equipment, and an
earnest appeal for the assistance of
all present for a new city hall by the
chief, closed the evening's pioirram.
Respectfully,
FRED W. KOCH,
Publicity sec. pro tern.
BRYAN IS FOR WILSON
SAYS JUDGE THOMPSON
mtrxxratic State Chairman Urines
Message- from llrynn at
Miami, Florida
Judge W. 11. Thompson, of ('.rand
Island, democratic state chairman of
Nebraska, who has Just returned
from a trip to Miami, Fl.i., has given
out the following as a result of his
interview and visit with Col. W. J.
Bryan :
"People misunderstood Mr. Ary
an's position regarding his relations
with the president.
"They differ only on a few princi
ples resulting from the war. These
do not affect their principal relations.
Mr. Hryan will most likely be one of
the Nebraska delegates-at-large to
the St. Louis convention. The entire
delegation will be for the president's
renomination. Whether pledged or
instructed, Mr. Bryan will probably
be among the Nebraska delegation,
which will be for the president, to a
man.
"Nebraska is for President Wil
son.
One-Term Plank I)iosed of
Regarding the one-term presiden
tial plank, Mr. Thompson said he be
lieved Hryan would not raise it
against the president. Bryan be
lieves the plank should be again
enunciated in thfc-St. Louis' platform,
but made applicable only to a presi
dentVfctcd' after laws are enacted
putting it into effect.
That no resolution will be urged
by Bryan in the St. Louis platform
which would embarrass the president
or repudiate any of his policies was
the substance of the sentiment ex
pressed by Mr. Thompson. It is
Mr. Bryan's belief the Wilson renom
ination is assured.
ii60O HANKED IN CATAIAXJ
Bl'IlNEJ) IN HOUSE CLEANING
Decatur, III., March 3 Noah Lun-
dy, a farmer living near Areola, to
day is mourning the loss of $2,650 in
crisp United .States currency. .-
Lundy had secreted the bills In a
mail order company's satalog and
while away from home his wife,
while cleaning house, burned the
book along with other waste papers.
liOrtUIT SECTION OF LAND
John KrauBe, of Krause Brothers,
the big ranchmen northeast of Alli
ance, was in the city Friday closing
a deal with James Potmesil for the
latter's section of land which ad
joins the Krause ranch. Krause
Brothers have added desirable lands
to their ranch year by year until
they now have one of the finest cattle
ranches in the country.
MANY INQUIRIES FOR LANDS
Over three thousand inquiries have
been received by the I'nited Stated
land office in Alliance regarding the
big land opening to be held here the
latter part of March. Register
O'Keefe and Receiver Morrow have
had th'ir r-nds fvill attending to the
corrr -i-ondence created by these in-qui:.-s,
which come from nil parts of
?' e lour.try. as far e;st as New York
nd ;! far w st as California.
v. mi: r;ixi:s now in
SERVICE ON Ill'RLI NGTON
Ti.e Chieato. Omaha and nenver
paM-i.gei run on the Burlington has
been equipped with the enormou
new engines recently put into serv
ice. Fifteen of the gigantic machines
have been purchased.
The new passenger engines put on
to the Burlington are each seventy
five feet long and weigh 4,2'jO.OOO
pounds. The cylinders are so large
that an ordinary sized barrel could
be slipfied into any one of them, and
a man. six feet tall and wearing a
plug hat, could stand erect inside the
small end of any one of the boilers.
TEDDY WITHDRAWS NAME
FROM ILLINOIS HAL LOT
New York. March 2 Theodore
Roosevelt's determination not to al
low the use of his name as a candi
date for the presidential nomination
in the spring primary elections was
emphasized today by the announce
ment that his secretary. John W. Me-
Grath. has directed the withdrawal
of Mr. Roosevelt's name from the Il
linois primaries.
This is the fourth state in which
Mr. Roosevelt has refused to allow
the use of his name. The others are
Nebraska. Minnesota and Michigan.
Mr. Roosevelt is now on a trip to
the West Indies.
1( you will have the Alliance Her
aid sent regularly you can keep post
ed on many .opportunities that this
fine western country affords. $1.50
GOVERNMENT EXPERIMENT PLANT
MAY ELIMINATE BIG SPUD WASTE
An experiment plant, for the pur-
pose of investigating the possibility
of saving a part of the potato crop
which often goes to waste, has Just
been completed at Arlington, Va.
Inasmuch as Box Butte county ami
western Nebraska is one of the lead
ing potato growing sections in the
vorld, our readers will no doubt be
Interested In the following.
In years of over production. Wal
lace's Farmer says, thousands of
farmers have had to haul their en
tire crop out for manure. The aggre
gate waste of this, year In and year
out, amounts to millions of dollars,
and the government hopes to work
out a practical system for saving it.
The present plant has machinery
for drying the potatoes, and already
a satisfactory product has been turn
ed out. The process is said to be
much simpler than that practiced In
Germany and other European coun
tries. The original bulky, highly
perishable product is manufactured
into a product which is concentrated,
non-perishable, and which can be
shipped long distances. The present
plant is simply a starting point, and
efforts of those in charge will be to
develop something which can be op
erated without a burdensome invest
ment. If it works out as planned, it
is predicted the potato plants will be
as common in potato districts as corn
canneries are in sweet corn districts.
Both would have about the same ob
ject.
When Eugene Grubb was in Eur
ope, making an investigation of the
potato industry there, he made quite
a study of Germany's potato facto-
rlaa Tn nno nf t ) nua whinh wua us
extensive as a million dollar beet
I
plant In this country, the potatoes I
come in car lots at digging time. Ev
ery by-product is saved. First, the
potatoes are sliced or pulped for
starch extraction: The waste pulp is
dried, and may be kept in good con
dition for a year or more for Mock
feeding. At this plant, the economy
went so far as to include a pipe line
to carry water, which had been used
for starch extraction, to a field two
miles distant. Here is was building
up the fertility in a 200-acre field,
which furnished grazing for 300
head of stock. oBth the high-class
products and by-products are thus
saved with machinery that German
Box Butte the Banner County
(Statistics from Nebraska State Bulletin)
Another Nebraska county bears the name, of Uanner, but in sever
al respects Box Butte is the banner county of this great state. Bul
letin No. 1G6 of tiie Nebraska State Board of Agriculture, issued .Jan
uary 15, .15)16, contains information regarding the crop yield of Ne
braska counties for last year that is, no doubt, approximately correct.
According to the above mentioned bulletin, only one county in the
state exceeded Box Butte in tin average yield per acre of oals in l!)l.r.
That, was Dawes county, with an average of 5!).fi bushels, to Box
Butte's average of 56.2. Saunders county came in third with 55.;!.
The average for the state was IJ4.7 bushels per acre.
Forty-six of Nebraska's ninety-two counties are credited with a
larger yield per acre on corn; forty-one are reported lower, and four
others reported the same as Box Butte, IJO bushels per acre, which is
2.6 bushels below the average for the state. Not so bad on corn, for a
county that is not in the "corn belt."
With ati average of 26.2 bushels per acre, Box Butte stands above
eight v-six other counties on w inter w heat, ami well above the average
for the state, which is 15).7 bushels.
Western Nebraska has eastern
in yield of spring wheat, and Box Butte is the banner county of the
whole state, with an average of 25.5 bushels. Cheyenne county is
second with 24.2, and Dawes third with 23.8 The average for the
state is 18.2.
Hn rye Box Butte's average of 25. s bushels was more than titty
per cent above the average for the state, 16. .'I bushels, and was exceed
ed by only three other counties, Washington with Ml. 5, Colfax 27.6,
and Seward 26.
Box Butte's average yield of barley is 40 bushels, which is 10. 5)
above the average for the state of 20.1 bushels. Three other counties,
Dawes, Deuel and Pawnee, had the same average, and only one,
Seotts Bin IT, exeecded it, having an average of 51.4 bushels.
On alfalfa Box Butte falls a little under the average yield for tin
state, but at the slate fair took first prize on equality for the westeii
section, the stale being divided into three sections for the cxhibitioi
of agricultural products, eastern, middle and western. The past yeai
was a good one for alfalfa tonnage in eastern Nebraska, which beat
western Nebraska a little on amount, but could not equal in quality.
But it's in potatoes where Box Butte shines hri?htcst of all the
ninety-two' Nebraska counties not only in the 15)15 crop, but evcrv
year. And we want to say a little something about spuds that read
( rs of this paper should remember. One other county reports inon
bushels, bul for all that this is the banner potato county, as we will
quickly show you. Last year 7M7.550 bushels were grown in thi
county: pretly good, don't you think, for a sparsely settled county in
which less than sixteen per cent of the land is under cultivation? One
other county, Cherry, had a larger number of bushels, 1 ,015,.'!!): ; but
Cherry county is nearly six times as large as Box Butte, so that in
proportion to size Box Butte grew mote than four times as many as
Cherry. In proportion to size, Box Butte had from two to forty time
hs many potatoes as the other counties of the state. The average
yield per acre for Box Butte count v was 1.17.5 bushels; for the state.
107.6 bushels.
scientists inv
ed for the purpose.
If a fart r 1 es a long distance
from one t. these German factories
he makes a crude product on the
farm, saving the pulp for his stock,
and shipping the unrefined Ptarch to
the plant. Potato Hour findH many
uses in Germany, and now it Is being
used largely as a substitute for wheat
flour. At the recent Iowa potato
show, samples of bread made mostly
from potato (lour were exhibited. The
flour, when mixed with wheat or rye
flour, is said to make excellent pud
dings and cakes. The usual price is
about J2.50 per hundred pounds. An
other product which Is made at the
starch factories is glucose, this being
superior to that made from cereals,
and commanding a higher price in
Ixindon, Paris, Berlin and other
large cities, where war does not con
flict with commerce.
Germany has startled the world by
Its ability to endure upon its own re
sources, and its etliciency Is praised
even by its enemies. Economists es
timated that about five million bush
els of potatoes went to waste from
decay, freezing, etc. They saw where
the country paid out annually about
$72,000,000 to foreign countries for
cattle fodder. They estimated that
at least 40 per cent of this could be
saved hy utilizing the entire potato
crop, instead of letting the odds and
ends go to waste. Prizes were offer
ed for methods of treatment and as
a result the Industry has been devel
oped to a high state of efficiency.
In dried or desiccated potatoes,
most of the water is extracted by a
pressure and vacuum machine. The
potatoes are then further dried by
artificial heat, and finally transfer-
red into storage rooms. Potato meal
weighs less than a fourth of Its orig
inal weight in raw potatoes, and it
occupies about orie-el ghth te' space!
Sometimes it is pressed into cakes
which can be broken up easily by
hand for stock feeding. The water
extracted from the potatoes is kept
in vats until all the starch settles.
Then the clean liquid is boiled, and a
clear precipitate of crude protein is
obtained. The protein is made into
albumen, which has a big sale in
German markets. After the protein
precipitate is obtained, the liquids
contain small amounts of sugar, nit
Nebraska ' ' skinned forty ways
EFFICIENCY AS IT
APPLIES TO FIREMEM
Interesting Artlcl I :ili ciic . by
MciiiImts of Sidney Fire
Department
(Hy E. J. Hreniian of Sidney)
Efficiency is a quality producing!
results. Not all persons have it.
This is the renson that there are ef
ficiency wages as distinguished from
day wages. Some are capable of
earning only day wages and others
are in possession of that Quality
which enables them to earn etliciency
wages. Some are born with that
quality and have developed it to its
highest possibilities. Some are born
with natural tendencies toward ef
ficiency yet do not advance through
life much farther thau their natural
endowments.
Again there are others with very
little natural direction toward efllci
enry yet they are so placed and so
trained that a considerable degree of
this desirable quality is developed.
There are people who accomplish
very little with the best possible
equipment and every golden oppor
tunity. Such persons are out of their
class and should be reduced to the
most routine mechanical tasks, sup
ervised by those persons of greater
etliciency.
On the other hand, oftentimes the
man possessed of efficiency and hav
ing opportunity and equipment avail
able, will bring forth the most satis
factory results. And this man will
even make his opportunity and with
the most meager tools can be count
ed upon to produce a something very
much worth while.
Many who are properly endowed
with mental capacity and have by
education and training reached a
very desirable standard of etliciency
dissipate their energies In following
U'inece88ary lines which get no
where. This is seen In men who talk
too much; men who procrastinate;
men who dissipate slightly or occas
ionally, depending on their talents to
get them back on a solid working
basis. All of these things impair the
natural abilities and weaken tlx
man's worth to the community. You
will often hear it said that a certain
man is a dandy good worker when
halsut.lt. - No -doubt lie Is, but wbai
is his efficiency worth to the fellows
whom he keeps waiting? Keeping
everlastingly at a thing is what often
Bets a plain plodding man above a
brilliant worker who works only by
spurts, while under Inspiration. In
spiration is such a fleeting and rare
emotion that it is a poor dependence
for those who must do the world's
work.
The tire department has some few
little Irritations concerning the mat
ter of not having the proper appara
tus with which to tight tire or per
haps they have men or otftcers who
are disappointing. Some times the
property burning belongs to tin
worst kind of a knocker and tight
wad, who directs operations of the
boys as though he belonged to royal
ty and the firemen were his serfs.
These things are hard to bear, es
peclally if the department is a volun
teer one whose sole reward is a suit
of ruined clothes and the thanks of
a few grateful people. Rut these
unpleasant things should not be con
sidered nor should work be any the
less energetic because of imped!
ments. The more obstacles in the
way the harder the department
should work to get to the scene ear
ly and the greater should be the de
termination to quench the Haines.
Any one can check a conflagration
under favorable conditions, with
plenty of water and the wind th
riL-lif wav. lint it takes efficiency to
work with poor apparatus and excit
ed officers and the criticism of those
who wouldn't do the unpleasant work
which the boys encounter. And,
thank God. the latter are the kind of
boys who make up the hie depart
ments all over tin- stale of Nebraska.
Those who do not meet the test of
aecoMiianyiou hardships are soor.
weeded out and only the survival ot
the fittest is possible. You cannoi if
you remain a fireman. waste any
breath kicking about the manage
ment or the equipment. You have
to be ready on a second's notice to
put on every ounce of your individ
ual steam and work furiously till the
enemy is conquered and the property
and lives are saved.
"To do the hard thing in the face of
da nver.
To forget self, your fellow man to
serve.
To work with will for dearest friend
or stranger.
This is the task of men with iron
nerve."
logenous matter and salts. This 1b
used for irrigation. The cost of ban
ning the potatoes in this way is said
to be about f,0 cents u ton for pota
toes, it takes nearly four tons of
raw potatoes to make a ton of the
desiccated product.
The government plant at Arling
ton, Va., will work alot.g lines sim
ilar to the (ielinan method, except
that an attempt will be made to de
velop a simpler process, and less
cumbersome machinery. The direct
um hope to work out a practical plan
jf savint the culls us well us the tub-
m of good quality, when, for lack of
a market, they can not be saved.
75,000 ACRES TO GO
AT PUBLIC AUCTION
,MM to I,mo ii(oiM Evpected la
Alliance YV.vk if North Piatt
Project, liiind 0Hiilng
In this section of The Herald wilt
be found a double page advertise
ment of the big public auction of Box
Butte county land which takes fpUo
In this city beginning March 22.
This sale in being put on through.
the co-operation of the Burlington.
Hail road Company, the- Alliance Com
mercial Club, the Alliance real estate-
dealers and Alliance merchants, with
the assistance of Box Butte county:
and owners, who are cutting up their
large ranches and tracts of land Into
quarters and halves for the benefit of
eastern people who are seeking land
worth the money, the original price
of which Is now almost prohibitive.
There are hundreds of land owner
In this section who will testify that In
actual experience they have produced
more revenue per acre than many of
the eastern farmers have been able
to produce on land worth $109 to
$400 per acre, while this land Is
priced at a mere fraction of those
figures.
Seventy-five thousand acres of
western Nebraska land will bo offer
ed for Bale and in being listed at
prices and terms that will undoubt
edly permit of its ready Bale over tha
block. The sale has been and in. be
ing widely advertised all over the
United States. Nearly ten thousand
inquiries have been received locally;
concerning the auction sale and
North Platte project opening, and
many hundreds of home seekers com
ing to Alliance for the land opening
will take advantage of thtssalo to
buy some of the best land at the price
to be found In the United States.
Local officials of the Burlington
Railroad Company have, following an
Investigation of the conditions, been
Instructed to make preparations to
handle a crowd of at least 3.GQ0 pec
pie during the land opening and auc
tion, which shows what people who
are in a position to judge of such
events, are anticipating.
IH'ltKETT FILES HIS
NAME AT DES MOINES
Des Moines, la., March 2 E.. J.
Burkett of Lincoln, Nebr., former
senator, today tiled with the Iowa
secretary of state his affidavit of con
dldacy for the republican nomination
for vice president of the United
States.
DISASTROUS FHtE BURNS .
WHEAT AND FLOUK
Fulerton. Neb., Feb. 28 The Ful
lerton mills, its elevator and a Ful
lerton electric light plant were de
stroyed here by tire Saturday night.
Fourteen thousand hushelss of wheat
and three carloads of flour burned
with the mill. The sharp north wind
fanned the fire and carried it to the'
power plant adjoining. This was al
so destroyed. Another plant ot the
electric company is furnishing lights,
for the city.
The mill was valued at $20,000,
and the power plant at $5,000. Tht
larger structure was owned by the
Farmers' Stock company and the city
owned the power house. Both build
ings were fully insured. Rebuilding'
operations will be started at once.
People Read
This Newspaper
That't rvhy it would bo rfc
profitable for you to U
advertise in it
If you nuani a job
If you want to hire somebody
If you want to sell something
If you want to bay something
If you want to rent your bouse
If you want to sell your house
If you want to sell your firm
If you want to buy property
If there is anything that you
want the quickest and best way
to supply that w.nt is by placing
art advertisement in this paper
The results will surprise
and please you
