$
Subscribers
of The Daily Gala
City are served the full Leased
Wire Service of the United
Press Associations.
VOL. 122. NO. 56.
[United Press Leased Wire Service.]
WASHINGTON, March 6.—.Newton
I D. Baker, former mayor of Cleveland,
will be secretary of war, according to
information learned today and believ
ed to be absolutely reliable.
He was born in Martinsburg, W.
Va., Dec. 3, 1871, and is a graduate of
Johns Hopkins and Washington and
Lee universities.
Appointment Admitted.
WASHINGTON, -.area C.—Newton
I). Baker, aged 45, twice mayor of
Cleveland, Ohio, disciple of Tom
Johnson and effective supporter of
President Wilson at the Baltimore
convention, will be secretary of war
in the president's cabinet. Admis
sion of the fact was made at the white
house today.
Baker, who twice declined an Invi
tation to become secretary of the in
terior when the president was first
forming his cabinet, has accepted the
place made vacant by Lindley M. Gar
rison's resignation.
Position Offered Him.
CLEVELAND, Ohio, March 6.—A
man politically close to Newton D.
Baker, ex-mayor, stated positively to
day th&t Baker had received a tele
gram from President Wilson offering
him the vacant cabinet position as
secretary of war. The Informant's
name cannot be used.
Baker was in his law office today
when the United Press Informed him
of the Washington report that he was
Secretary Daniels May Stir up
Trouble if He Issues An
nounced Order.
[United Press Leased Wire Service.]
WASHINGTON. March 6.—A move
which* promises further difficulty for
Secretary Daniels and which is look-
/aui«i» miu
of American members of the interna- order to make Possible
trip to Buenos Ayres
DeS8e
Unbroken rule of
been the almost
the American navy that no woman
battlesmp
should be carried aboard a
at sea. The presence of women
aboard warships has been limited
solely to social functions
vessels are In port The pet
titcoating" of a warship is looked up
on with anything but favor by the
sticklers for naval tradition.
Though the purpose of ths congress
at Buenos Ayres is primarily to work
out plans for effecting a closer rela
tionship and a better acquaintance
between the countries of North ana
uie
sen of
Former Mayor of Cleveland, City Attorney and
Man Not Experienced in Military Work
to Succeed Garrison.
WILL TAKE PUCE AT END OF WEEK
Appointee is Personal Friend of the President
and Knows How to Fight in Politics
if Not in War.
Announcement of the appointment,
it is said, may be expected from the
white house in the next day or two.
The president, it is understood, has
been advised by. the attorney gener
al's office that General Scott, chief of
staff, cannot be retained as acting sec
retary of war longer than next Satur
day, when his thirty days appointment
expires.
Baker is not entirely without cabi
net experience. He served as a pri
vate secretary to Postmaster General
Wfls'dK from 1895 t5 18971 In addi
tion to practicing law, he was city
solicitor of Cleveland for ten years,
serving from 1902 to 1912. His work
as solicitor won him great public fav
or and he was elected to his urst term
as mayor of Cleveland in 1912. He
was re-eleoted in i91- and left office
in 1916. He h§is always been a demo
crat and is a strong personal friend
of President Wilson.
scheduled to be the new secretary of
war.
"You may say for me there is noth
ing I may say," he announced. "I am
practicing law."
Baker's attitude indicated that he
is determined to discountenance the
Washington report until an official
statement of the appointment Is made.
In the appointment of Baker, the
president. It is said, meets a qualifica
tion which it has been intimated, Is
considered important—that the new
secretary be an attorney from the
middle west.
He has had the rough and tumble
experience of politics, being a long
term, pupil of Tom Johnson.
Marshall Approves.
CHICAGO, March 6—Vice President
Thomas R. Marshall declared today flne $100. Martin entered an ap-
that he knew of no man better able to,
who according to Washington dls
patches, is slated for appointment to
that place.
"That's bully," said Marshall, bor
rowing T. R.'s pet phrase for the In
stant. "With due deference to the oth
er candidates for the place, he's the
best man for it. A man
ship for ship and man for man, our
navy Is the best in the world.
"It ought to be larger," he said.
"Secretary Daniels has done all he
can for the navy. He has a big wait
ing list now ready to fill vacancies
when an increase Is authorized by
congress. We should have many more
auxiliary ships. Congress will do
something to relieve that condition.'
South
We
-A'
Marshall took a hot shot at the
navy's critics.
"I am one man," he said, "who
knows he doesn't know anything about _r.
the
admiration
de officers for the conditions for
(Continued on page 2.)
WOMEN ON BATTLESHIPS
NEVER ALLOWED BEFORE
America, the commission of
C^T
special order. "ot
mon As announced today, the party: dispute.
wll, gail from
—Read The Dally Gate City.
1)C Doiln
pea an(
hold the place of secretary of war United States court of appeals has de-1
than Newton D. Baker, of Cleveland, cided in a similar case that the evi- ...
not exierl-j
more likely to listen to advice."
Baker is a personal friend and
fraternity brother of the vice presi
dent.
Though he had declared earlier in
mas
frt-r *Via an- rrvan S meadS ueiueu
ed upon as another outgrowth of the, gressmen who had voted for the ap actively oppose the that the senate, seemingly, voted to
[United Press Leased Wire Service] [United Press Leased Wire Service]
PARIS, Maroh 6.—The most violent LONDON, March 6.—Twelve per
artlllery fighting occurred on the left [sons were killed and thirty-three In
bank of the Mouse, west of Douau-jjured In Sunday night's Zeppelin raid
mont and in the Woevre region last: over the northeast ooast of England,
night, the war office reported this aft- it was officially announcea toaay.
ernoon, but there were no Important I Two raiding airships dropped bombs
Infantry actions. on Yorkshire, Lincolnshire, Rutland,
In the Argonne, French artillery Huntingdon, Cambridge, Norfolk, Es
cannonaded the Cheppy wood posi- sex and Kent.
tions of the Germans and also enemy
works around ths Avocourt-Malan
court road.
Elsewhere on the front a calm pre
vailed last night.
May Join the Union.
[Lnlted Press Leased Wire Service.]
NEW YORK, March 6—While fem
inists rallied to the support of Mrs.
Elizabeth D. Eldrege, barred from a
position as teacher because she mar
ried, the Teachers league today was
to meet with the American Federa
tion of Labor and perhaps affiliate
with organized labor to fignt for the
right to marry.
Samuel Gompers, president of the
labor federation, expected to Invite
the teachers to join the union in an
address at today's meeting.
Are Free to Leave.
[United Press Leased Wire Service.]
WASHINGTON, March 6.—Despite
press dispatches that three Ameri
cans, Mrs. Walter Farwell, Miss Mit
chell and Dr. Henry Forbes, who had
been interned at Sofia for some
weeks, are still unable to leave, the
state department today insisted that
information received from American
Diplomatic Agent Finstein at Sofia
indicates they may leave at will.
Hank Gets Pardoned.
[United Press Leased Wire Service]
WASHINGTON, March 4.—Presi
dent Wilson today pardoned Hank
Martin, of Muskogee, Oklahoma, who
was convicted April 20, 1914, of intro- raining down
duclng liquor into an Indian reserva-! exhausted its supply.
Hon and sentenced to three months Ta f"
the United States penitentiary and
since his case was tried, the
dence was Insufficient to convict.
Vice Presidential Fences.
[United Press Leased Wire Service.]
DBS MIOTNEB, Iowa, March C.—
Governor E. W. Major, of Missouri,
was here today conferring with Post'
ter George Hoffman and
enced in military work will make a ieajin!r democrats and there were
better secretary of war than a sol-
rumorg
dier, for various reasoffff He will 'be, fence8 ag
that he was looking after his
a
vice presidential pos-
Reward of $200.
[United Press Leased Wire Service.]
SPRINGFIELD. HI.. March 6.—
1UUU6U ..D SPRilNlri'IKilvlJ. 111., Marcn o.—
the day, that America, because of u-
Cr0Tern0r ]innfi
preparedness would be at the me ward j^oo for the apprehension of
°l filial that
the
shall declared that he League. League was murdered Feb
ruary 26 at East St. Louis.
today offered a re-
murderer of Police Officer Marion
Servlce
8
rr,^«
Th
which Secretary McAdoo is the head, decree against armed mer- situation thoroughly, reported today.
sentatives of the two big American MHiii /-rHt»rn tr. mer-:
press associations to accompany the
party on the Tennessee.
The reason given is that "there is
no room aboard."
When they learned today that the
wives of some of the commissioners
were to be provided with quarters, "lecture and was to lunch
bf ba^ed ^rom Thrmp.^eve^rcon- -Uh a party of efeht_represe^
i-!
Bryan's"
of State Bryan. He returned from a break ^Amerca.
would not interfere in the
lnter ere
Hampton Roadr Despite! increased clamor In con-
dnesday will Include Mr. and gress for a direct vote on the merits
Atrs McAdoo. Assistant Secretary of of a resolution warning Americans
Treasury and Mrs. A. J. Peters, Mr.
and Mrs. Samuel Untermeyer John
0
congre
ff armed ships, pending negotiations
wttli
Fahey Senator Fletcher Archi- more certain that the house will vote
bald Kains and Paul M. Warburg, of to table the McLemore resolution,
the federal reserve
Brooks, B. Parker
Guire, assistant secretaries of
commission.
the central powers. It became
saw
^'Wlfiirii-hWiiH^-ii'i'
he
KEOKUK, IOWA MONDAY, MARCH 6, 1916
OVTER FORTS OF VERDVN WRECKED
It Is now believed that three Zep
pelins participated in the raid. An
earlier statement from the admiralty
reported only two Zeppelins engaged.
The dirigibles dropped forty bombs,
destroying houses on two terraces and
damaging several shops, it was stated.
The dead are three men, four women
and five children.
Ane, Zeppelin hurled down bombs
upon an area occupied by dwellings of
worklngmen. An entire block was de
molished. A woman and four of her
children, the eldest eight years old,
were killed In this district. The hus
band, Injured when the house was de
molished, Is confined in a hospital,
ignorant of the fate of his family.
In one of the houses wrecked by a
bomb was an aged woman, an in
valid, who had been confined to her
bed for seven years. The house came
tumbling down about her, but she
was dug from the debris, unscratched.
In a nearby house, the bursting of
a bomb set fire to a workman's duell
ing. A feeble old man, about ninety
years of age, was burned to death
before rescuers could reach him.
After crossing the east coast, the
Zeppelin raiders started eastward,
then changed their bearings several
times, finally circled about, evidently
uncertain of their positions. Then
they began hurling down both Incend
iary and explosive bombs.
At several places they were seen
very plainly. One of the Zeppelins
remained stationary over one town,
missiles until it had
("The extent of territory visited
dll
:..nK laat night's Zeppelin raid on
EnK
iav„i
was
J*
perhaps the greatest of
According to the London of-
atatorn
ent eight counties, forcn-
ficlal statement, eight
ing the tier extending along the north
seacoast and northeast of London
wero visited.
The statement that both Essex and
Kent counties, adjoining the city of
I London, were raided, indicates that
other1 the Zeppelins may have come very
close to London itself.
Several large towns manufacturing
war munitions are within the coun
ties mentioned in the London dis
patch. The cities of Leeds, York,
Hull, Lincoln and Cambridge are
among the most important in the area
covered by the Germans.
Much the same territory was visit
ed by the Zeppelins that raided Eng
land on the night of January 30,
(Continued on page 2.)
Another Show Down Vote
Will be Taken Tomorrow
fighting on land or sea but ldont, March 6.-Three istration faction. It was practically a leans off belligernt armed merchant
think it Is at all kind In certain gen- WA»HlJ*(yrt)N, «nr(„orle conclusion that the move-: men. The vote was neither an en
tlemen to cuss
the German submarine issue.
Plans were practically completed In schedule tomorrow.
the house for the show" down vote to-!
morrow desired by President Wilson German Comment.
to table Representative MeLemore's [By Carl W. Acnerman United Press
warning resolution. Staff Correspondent.]
Col E M. House, the president's BERLIN, Marcii 6. ia Amster
personal' and ultra-confidential advis- dam.)—The senate's vote of confl
er, back from his secret mission f'encc in President Wilsoni last Friday
among the belligerents, was to give has lessened the possibilities of
... •. ..a r_'Qmio«.Aninrj(an break
importance
|ecre- night address in Wilmington. Del., that the senate registered a clear de-1 he wf.uld =ro..wh., to Ne, Vo. ,t
•, agitation came from the anti-admin- taken on the proposal to warn Amer-
the"
'pre
side t"i nfo
rmatio of "utmost German-American break, well Inform-1today and found the president had not,
rmondi^aa tn rnc eu who have canvassed the
onnendices to the ed Americans who have
leged secret British orders to mer-j what puzzled at the exact meaning in time to have breakfast with his,
attack submarines were of the senate vote. But the general friend and adviser.
tn arrive a\ the state department opinion is that it strengthens the House, it Is understood, delivered
Another sub-surface influence inlands of those who, though desiring his report on his visit to London,
l^rieste and JteHcate sanation most vigorous submarine war, do Paris and Berlin. Ho would not dls
of former 4cretarv not want to take any chance of a cuss the nature of his mission. Asked
was the presence or torm„. &ecreta.y America if he stU) held to the view that. "Pres-
wag a naturaI reS
system, and J. ultimately, however, few leaders call congress together to ^decide on a A ent^'lTe'e*pectedntoSc^nCfer
and C. E. Mc-
another vote In both house and question of war or peace. tho
the senate on simply warning resolution Tho Cologne Gazette differing witn with ^rro ansing and congre
-mild
avoided the Tas-eldntt. regards the senate's
couia ne avuiucu. nlmnKt meanineless in view re=olrtirns warning Americans off
Efforts were renewed to postpone action as almost meaningless in view re..on.u
ithe house vote until Thursday. This of the report that no direct vote was armed merchantmen
[United Press Leased Wire Service.]
PETROGRAD, March 6.—Russian
torpedo boats raided Turkish shipping
in the harbor of Trebizond, sinking
several vessels within easy range of
the coast batteries. I
The fire of the coast guns was so
weak that It was believed here all
heavier guns have been dismantled
because of the approach of Russian
land forces.
[United Press Leased Wire Service]
BERLIN, March 6 Minor engage
ments occurred on the east bank of
the Meuse, north of Verdun last night,
the war office reported this afternoon.
The Germans captured fourteen offl
csrs and 194 men.
$500,000 Fire Loss.
[United Press Leased Wire Service]
PEORIA, III., March 6.—More than
700,000 bushels of grain was burned
today by fire which destroyed the
Iowa elevator, owned by the Bartlett
Frazier -company, of Chicago. The loss
will reach ,$500,000. Part of the grain
was for shipment to the allies.
The origin of the flames is unknown
but is thought to have started with a
dust explosion.
Now He is Dead.
[United Press Leased Wire Service.]
NEW YORK, March 6.—Nathan
Cohen, the "shuttle cock of fate," is
at rest at last. After travelling 19,
740 miles up and down the Atlantic
ocean, barred from landing because
he appeared mentally defective,
Cohen was cared for by charitable
.organizations here.. He died at the
Hebrew sheltering home. His orig
inal passage cost $45.
Deputy Marshal Must Pay.
[United Press Leased Wire Service]
WASHINGTON, March 6.—The es
cape of Fred Bigtop, an Indian con
and that the dorsement nor a rejection of Presi­
house vote would come off per .dent Wilson's war policies, the Ga-
zette said.
widoly
,n I
heir interpretation of the senate's
friends vigorously denied he action. For the most part they agree
House Is Back.
WASHINGTON. March C.—Presi
dent Wilson today conferred with
Colonel E. M. House, his persona!
envoy, back from abroad, on condi
tions in the belligerent countries.
House arrived from New York early
yet returned from a trip down the
river on the Mayflower.
Officials and the public are some-J The president got back, however,
lfient Wilp(vn
Cifg
vlct who dove from a car window atjmnn attacks were repulsed.
St. Joseph, Mo., December 2. while be-1
Wages Increased.
[United Press Teased Wire Sen-Ice. 1
CHICAGO, March G.—WageF of 30,
000 employes of the Armour, Swift.
Morris and Sulzberger plants at the
Union stock yards were raised ap-
„,e one man who will
bring penre in Europe," he said he
would not
rare
1
to make any comment
at this time.
The colonel said he was mighty
glad to ret, hs^k home. He empha»*
icaiiy denied reports that he would
ult when !,ei- Hp drchnpd to discuss whether
President Wilson made the question I he bro'iciit information on Great Bri'
one of national honor," said the ain't-, atMtudi* on the armed merehani
Tasehlntt. "The senate's action men question and would say nothin'
leaves President Wilson and Secre- of the rri ds now pending in conerer=«.
1,-iry Lansing a free hand to contine Altfcvfhor he lived up to the c.har
the
negotiations With Germany. With actor K-ropenn editors gave him.
the only obligation that they must "the sphinx in the felt hat."
leader? reff.-rning tue fi^ht to kih
A™th/nrnnAA™terdam disPfttch,
ing taken from Helena, Montana, to ported 10,000 Germans were repulsed
Fort Leavenworth, will cost United ™jth heavy losses when they attempt.
States Deputy Marshal .T. W. Rickman.
ed
of Helena, Montana. $38.59. This is the vicinity of Semogneux, flvo and
bv Rickman for ex-' one-half miles north of Verdun.
the claim filed
penses in capturing Bigtop. The
treasury today refused to allow It.
proximately $1 a week today in ac
cordance with trie recent general in- ___
'crease announced by these companies, pame time they are counter attacking
viciously in efforts to reoccupy Douau-
mont village.
in two weeks of the greatest offen
sive by either side stneo the German
defeat at the Marno, combined Ger
man and French losses have totalled
more than 200,000. The dead on both
sides are believed to number at least
50,000.
During the first fortnight of the
struggle, the Germans havo pressed
forward in a crescent shaped front,
occupying between 90 and j.00 square
miles of French positions, according
to figures given out in Berlin. They
have wrecked Fort Douaumont and
captured several villages, but have
failed to break the French front at
any point.
Throughout Sunday a fierce battle
raged along the front from Pepper
Heights to Douaumont plateau. The
Germans first concentrated the fire
of several score of guns against the
French positions, bombarding for two
irnr
TIK*r''0
wit hi
I't'rc f.or] :y
Hi
in
r-r* r\
L'/iSES H2
bridge the Meuse with ponteons
The fiftenth day of the great battle
of Verdun saw the crown prince striv
ing desperately to shatter the French
center in a furious fight on the Douau
mont plateau.
violent clashes are occurring In
Fresnes woods. But the main struggle,
according to latest Paris despatches,
has narrowed to the two mile front
extending from Haudremont wood to
Douaumont. The French have drop
ped a deadly curtain of fire. At the
n-nited Press Lensed Wire Pervlco] unconquerable at sea.
IWRLIX March
tvo Moewe will flrst be
THE WEATHER
"Windy tonight. Cooler, Local
temp—7 p. m. 36 7 a. m. 40.
HaI^
dry-docked.
remnrkablv
EIGHT PAGES
Deadly Struggle for Verdun Continues, With
Germans Slowly Battering Down the
Outlying Fortifications.
THREE FORTS ON EAST DEMOLISHED
French Front has not Been Broken at Any Point
so Far in Spite of Advances by the
Germans.
[United Press Leased Wire Service.]
LONDON, March 6.—Three of the
Verdun forts, defending the city from
the east, have been almost totally
wrecked by the German bombard
ment, according to Amsterdam dis
patches today.
The Amsterdam dispatch repeated
previous reports, unconfirmed from
Berlin, that Fort De Vaux, five miles
northeast of Verdun is in ruins. It
added that Forts Moulainville and De
Tavannes, next in line south of De
Vaux, have been badly damaged by
German mortars, if they have nfit
been totally destroyed.
The latest Berlin official dlspatohes
carry no confirmation of the Amster
dam reports. The Germans have co
cqpiod Dieppe, two miles northeast of
Fort De Tavannes, from which point
they could bring heavy guns to bear
upon the fort. Hand to hand fighting
has occurred at the railway station
of Eix, midway between Fort De Tav
annes and Fort Moulainvlllo, but In
each instance Paris reported the Ger-
hours. Then they charged, tttrovtef
three brigades Into action on the zuur
row front.
French artillery replied with an In
tense fire that riddled the foremost
ranks. Other French guns threw a
deadly hail behind the oncoming Ger
mans, blocking the arrival of rein
forcements. Caught between two
sheets of artillery and machine gun
fire, the Germans were slaughtered.
xae whole front, latest Paris des
patches stated, is now undergoing the
heaviest bombardment. The artillery
fighting has extended to the Argonne.
The French are pounding away at the
German positions on this front and
engaging in aerial reconnoissances,
mindful of the possibilities of a drive
toward the St. Menehould railway,
the principal source of supply for the
Verdun armies.
Following the repulse of heavy at
tacks against the French front, ex
tending west from Douaumont pla
teau, the Germans did not return to
tho attack last night, this afternoon's
official statements from the French
and German war offices Indicated.
Paris reported violent artillery fire
on the left bank of the Meuse, west
of Douaumont and In the Woevre re
gion, but no Important infantry action
on the northern Verdun front, in
which fourteen c/fflcers and 934 men
were taken, but carried no confirma
tion of Amsterdam reports that three
Verdun eastern fronts had been prac
tically destroyed.
The French war office mentioned
the bombardment of German posi
tions In the Argonne, around Cheppy
woods and the Avocourt-Malancourt
road. Berlin claimed the^ repulse of
all English attacks northoast of Ver
raelles.
Confess Many Hold-ups.
rUnited Press leased Wire Service.]
CHICAGO, March 6.—A long list of
hold-ups at Minneapolis, Kansas City,
St. Louis and Omaha and the murder
of a butcher named Carlson at Min
neapolis, were confessed today by
Raymond Hawke, 25, and Carl Swan
con, 19, who will be taken to Min
neapolis tonight for trial. Police
Chief Martinson. of Minneapolis,
heard their confessions today he de
clared.
Charge 1s Dismissed.
TUnited Press Leased Wire Service.1
CHICAGO, March C.—'Municipal
Judge Heap today dismissed a larceny
charge against Mrs. Alice McCormlck,
23, of Denver, Colo., accused by Mrs.
Rolls Deal, of St. Louis of the theft
of an ?800 diamond ring which she
missed after attending a reception at
which Mrs. McCormlck was a guest.
DARING COMMERCE RAIDER
STARTS OUT AGAIN SOON
Steamer Mcewe Reaches Ger
man Port and Prepares
for Other Raids.
1
are expected to reach Berlin within a
short time.
Tho Moewe's dsjlng, the Lokal
Aneeiger said, "has inscribed her
name in every German heart."
The Vossosche Zeitung, commenting
In the same vein, added that the ex
ploits of the German raider have prov
en to England that Germany is still
some Doubt Expressed.
,-* and crew who already nAve ..
,Y rhrniintr roles in the Moewe's LONDON. March 5.—several of the
ih'e exploits, the German com- Tjondon newspapers doubt the truth of
rn'der will asain put to sen the German report that the Moewe
fe-.v weeks, it was stated
1
has returned to port, believing it was
jsent to throw British warships off the
trail.
,.-"i. Will be srrapod and she will The Times naval correspondent
tiiorouchlv overhauled. She is said however, declared it altogether likely
good shape.: that the Moewe has eluded the British
t'no'i-h tattered ly heavy storms and and made her way into Wilhelmshav
sVr-Kk more than' once by shells In en.
'.ri'iHts with armed freighters. "The possibility of an enterprising
The return of the Moewe overshad- captain breaking the blockade inward
r.'.ved the Verdun offensive as a news ag well as outward has been fre
tv-iti're in the Berlin newspapers to- quentlv demonstrated, he wrote,
hv The name
rf
the port she en- captain of the Moewe certainly car-
tered will remain a deep secret, butjried out a desperate adventure with
first hand stories of her daring deeds skill and courage.
I r.
I
1
MwH
'I
