FINANCIAL EDITION
BJrtiger
NIGHT
EXTRA,
famtmn
NIGHT
rrv"vnrvri a
"voi.n.-BQ.iao
PHILADELPHIA, MONDAY, MABOH 0, 1910.
Cortiiont, 1910. bi ins Public Lzdokb Courmi,
PRICE OITCS GENU
pMAN AIR RAIDERS RILL
12, INJUKE 33, 1JN SWOOP
, OVER 8 ENGLISH COUNTIES
rtivee Zeppelins Drop
I Forty Bombs on
K Score of Hist uoast
Towns
Wferien and umiaren Among
j&ctlnis of Thirtieth Foray
,&. nrltnin One Shell Hit
?' T " . - 1IT..1.tmrTYlnvir
'S BlOCK 01 VYUlJVlUBiiiv.no
.Homes
' .
ifco. , Pnur Children in One Family
Sf wn to Pieces, Husband Injured.
Believe Raiders Sought to Learn
ration of Great British Fleet of
Dreadnought
LONDON. March 6.
. ., Tif.r killed and 33 In-
in Sunday nlghf8 Zeppelin raid over
'llVihiast coast qf England. It was of-
KSI Norfoiu; Esse and
K'i'- ,i- olt nart In the raid,
Joftw as . originally reported,
'rty bombs vera dropped by the aerial
Th.'followlng statement was given out
KnuSKl Zeppelin, taking part
j-iB.tbe raid Is nelievea xo imvo ucc.
lhree Aftor crossing tho coast the alr-?-.)Wtook
various courses and from the
!!... ..., nf their niBht tho pilots
b apparently uncertain as to their
!u.l Tho area visited included
Yorkshire. Lincolnshire, Rutland, Hunt
ingdon. Cambridgeshire, Norfolk, Essex
indKenU About 40 bombs wore dropped.
Aiinrcthcr tho casualties so far ascer-
'ui.rf amount! to three men, four women
lied Ave children killed and 33 persons
Wounded. Tho material uumufe-u "
terraces and houses aesxroyeu, uuo unite,
one public house and several shops partly
destroyed. An almshouse was also dam-
iged,"
The eight counties include nearly the
whole area of the northeast, cast and
E southeast coast, Yorkshire, Lincolnshire,
Norfolk. Essex and Kent are on the North
gea. Cflmbrtagesmre, ituiianu ana xium
Ingdon are inland.
Prom the mouth of the Thames (tho
Icons 'border of Kentlhlro) to Yorkshire
A Is approximately ICO miles. It Is 130
f-mllni frnm 'London. tCwYorkshlrc Xhe
t KppellriVpenetrated from 75 to 65 miles
r inland from the coast
4 Ons ,Zepp61in hurled down Domes upon
...A nniihlarl Kiv flnmltlnsrn rif .wnrlt.
tames, an entire, block was demolished.
ATfomin and four of her choldroh, tho
eldest 8 years .old, wero killed in this dis
trict The husband, injured when the
house wag demolished, is confined In a
hospital, ignorant of tho fate of his fam
(Bjr. In one of the houses wrecked by a bomb
was an ired. woman, an invalid, who had
I" been, confined to her bed for seven years.
ins house came tumbling down about her,
but she was dug from the debris un
matched. f In a nearby house the bursting of a
komh, set Are to a workman's dwelling. A
feebly old man, about 90 years of age, was
orraa xo aeatn Before rescueis coum
;eichhlm.
. After crossing the east coast, tho Zen-
rUn raiders started eastward, then
changed their bearlmrs several times and
tally circled about, evidently being un-
itnaia ot tnelr bearings. Then they be
lan hurling down both Incendiary and
explosive, bombs.
At several places they wereteen very
VMfi One of the Zeppelins remained
Ullpwry over one town, mining down
mlMlles, until it had exhausted Its supply.
The perman Admiralty Is feeling with
ppeaa in an effort to locate the British
STana fleL ThU In th linllnf roblnl, avlDta
-kSylsno today as a result of tho queer
fi 7 AthB Zeppelins which took part
MaSUndaira raid nn., ,1.a n,l..n.., nB
P The German ballnona nnotrn,1 n- n tf.ft
If wrth and fpllowed a zig-zag course, which
JEtt times took them fni nnf iwav tho a
It U believed tn ii tin, hnna ., i,n n
m Admiralty of locating the grand fleet
attacking the dreadnoughts with
Tllft llhavinko.i- ... .
llUJkttn . . . " 0t,lne ,UB" SeB3 "eet
Bifltv. '"ry Hince xne eariy uays
itStmJ ,. ' Is. .k,n?wn.that tha. coa
'taSd.il i'"")' cruisers ana scouts
:v;..D.vr.w?w up"rd-
8r i,T. L "vuo cruisers or ine norae
Ltb tu beenv kept hidden. It Is possible
f-tao,riy?ay b9 ,n well-Protected harbors
iWXM west coast. hn mn 11,1.1, ....... ..
wouruiern watnm thi .. i.i1
m eorae sunnnrt trr. ,h. i,o
SS.?",1 BhlPs whc ha been
!&hT,,7 e Uken lnt0 P" at Kirkwall,
fr -'
ihdr4wi ..
&PMlhi m wrr,t7 ylsl'ed last night's
'SwwW.?i? Ensland was perhaps
ffiK,fith? Var AccordlnE to the
'feS . X r ex'endlnB alon tne North
I1sJtbL r??5 nwhest of London, were
m Ui "n "m"lnent that both Essex
IwSon !?"es' ll w city
.ttftSn.Wew r.a,led' "'dlcates that
'to irlB.tU, may hae come verv closa
HP B 1 1 "
8gl8p.i)f?: 'fy towns manufacturing war
1st teeda. vnrt7 ,, . "'"Patch. The c ties
p w(;:T.""m'"
j8H,T:L'?t.?al1ed England on the nlcht
Mm!,''. en 09 persons were
-via injured.
TIT,?. TWBAmTTr,r,
KoSi'! 5ul9 K corner of the
ptMa. " " 5crJr Cher corher of tha
wteSt to fhlner of the pa Playa
wE,,r1i!n e corners of the unl.
m4tt-j.r,lerea the ttentlon of
1 TaUU5'lll)1''l(' circuls,-KZ.,u.tH0-.?.?
Pairs of eyes:
'S Sttraosrn? !i11mluton-- But "the pri.
xMr..cofner is not what it uim
w ThlAf""110! w,s ot teeth are
& bt thV,. not wbat it should be
Ft It li. T. , . ? ln Philosopher
rwuea that
tr. -,, vwa-sr
Tircc Zeppelins Sweep
Eight English Counties
Three Zeppelins, taking separate
courses, swept eight east coast
counties of England.
Twelve persons three men, four
women and Ave children killed
and 33 injured.
This raid, which took place Sun
day night, is tho 30th made by
tho Germans since the first, which
occurred on December 24, 1914.
The total number killed in tho
various raids is 234, the majority
bcingwomen and children.
Owing to the erratic course pur
sued by the raiders, it is believed
thnt their object was to seek out
the whereabouts of the main Brit
ish fleet with the plan of returning
in force and attempting to drop
bombs on the dreadnoughts.
ARMED SHIP BILL
ON CALENDAR; TO
VOTE TOMORROW
Mctemore Warning Reso
lution, Clarks Says, Is
Practically "Tabled"
BRYAN NOT INTERFERING
WASHINGTON, March 6 Lenders in
tho House were today still endeavoring to
reach an agreement as to what action that
body will take on the McLemoro resolu
tion, warning Americans off nrmed ships
of the belligerents. The leaders, headed
by Representative Kltchln, would like a
vote on Its merits of the proposition.
Chairman Flood, of the Foreign Affairs
Committee, however, declared today that
he will opposo this.
"Our committee hns recommended that
tho McLemore resolution be tabled and
has asked that tho Rules Committee re
port a resolution that will permit this," he
said. "We Mill Insist that this he dope."
The Housp Jlules Commttteo met this
morning to framo the special rule bringing
up the McLornqre resolution; It was re
ported formal nctlon would be postponed
until tomorrow, just .bfiWraltheiTrpviflo,
convenes JqVthe final voieT""" H V
Part of the House struggle ovcr'nicthods
of handling tha resolution was dlspomt ot
early In the afternoon pesslon by Repre
sentative Fohs, of Illinois, of Republican.
He simply moved that it bo placed on the
calendar and Speaker Clail: ordered this
done,
Representative Gardner, Rep.. Mass),
previously had obtained from tho Speaker
the statement that the resolution was
"technically" ort the table.
This was taken to mean that tabling
the resolution will end requests for a dis
position of the entire problem "on its
merits.
SHOWDOWN TOMORROW.
Three Important developments today
shaped this Government's future handling
of the German submarine lssuo.
Plans were practically completed In the
House for the showdown vote tomorrow,
desired by President Wilson, to take up
Representative McLemore's warning reso
lution. The appendices to the German decree
against armed merchantmen, photographic
copies of alleged secret British orders to
merchantmen to attack submarines, were
to arrive at tho State Department.
Another subsurface influence in the
intricate and delicate situation was the
presence of former Secretary of State
Bryan. Bryan's friends vigorously denied
he would openly and actively oppose the
President In the dispute with Congress.
Bryan will not be here when the House's
vote Is taken tomorrow. He leaves this
afternoon to make a night address at Wil
mington, Del.. 'and will then go West on a
lecture tour. Bryan himself Insisted that
he would not Interfere In the Congress dis
pute. Although dnying that the apeparance
NEW SECRETARY OF WAR
i?33BBfcBefc
JIM Aft' . iiiKv
m ' K rlcHBH if
M.. Mi! . sfliHilWK kJ
m
TRANSIT LOAN
BILL'S DEFEAT
MAY BE URGED
Threat to Beat Measure to
Be Held as Club Over
Administration
QUICK NEWS
BITTER FIGHT PLANNED
Protest Meetings to Fight
Transit Program Changes
NEWTON D. BAKER
TEUTONS' HALT
ATTACKS UPON
VERDUN LI
Continued on I'aae I'lve, Column One
Paris Reports Infantry Has
Ceased Assaults Big
Artillery Duel On
SHEIiL.GBRMANRAINS
-
PARIS. March 0
Violent artillery duels wore" fought
during the night In tho Verdun region,
but there was no infantry engagement,
according to the official communique Is
sued by the French War Office this after
noon. The artillery lire was particularly
violent on the west bank of tho Meusc.
French batteries bombaided tho German
points of passage.
In tho Argonne, French guns also bom
barded different points in Chippy forest
and tho main road in that section held
by the Germans.
The text pf the communique follows:
"In the Argonne wo bombarded different
points In Chippy forest and tho Avocourt
Malacourt road.
"In the region to the north of Verdun
no infnntry action was reported during
the night There was a violent artillery
on the left bank of the Meuse. and only
Intermittent cannonade in the sector to
tho west of Douaumont and in tho Woevro
region. Our batteries actively shelled the
enemy's points of passage.
"The night was calm on the rest of the
front."
BERLIN, March 6.
The region northeast of Vermilles, be
tween La Bassee and Arras, has been the
scene of lively mining duels and also at
tacks by the English, says the official re
port of the German War Office issued to
day. Tho British attacks ere repulsed. North
of Verdun there has been no more In
fantry fighting of Importance.
On Saturday and Sunday, during minor
engagements, east of the Meuse, the Ger
mans took 14 officers and 934 men of the
rank and file ,
The folowlng is the text of the official
statement: '
NEWTON D. BAKER
TO BE APPOINTED
WAR SECRETARY
Former Mayor of Cleveland
Selected as Garri
son's Successor
FRIEND OF PRESIDENT
Continued on rase Fifteen, Column Tito
WASHINGTON. Mafoli- 6. Newton (D.
Baker, ex-Major of Cleveland, who vas
ono of tho two men who forced the nom
ination of Woodrow Wilson at Baltlmoie,
will be nppointed Secretnry of War. His
nomination w ill go to tho Senate either
late today or before the end of the week
when tho 50-day ad lnteim appointment
of General Scott, chief of staff, expires.
This announcement was mado In olll
clal circles today
When Joseph P. Tumulty, secretary to
the President, was asked whether stories
from Cleveland that the appointment had
been tendered to Baker wero true, he at
first refused to answer. When told later
that Mr. Baker himself admitted that he
had accepted tho appointment, Mr. Tu
multy said :
"If Mr. Baker hai accepted, his nom
ination Is certain. The President has
tendered the appointment to him. It Is
likely that the nomination will bo sent
to the Senate within a day or so.
Baker hns always been a pacifist and
only recently became converted to the
necessity of preparedness. But he is
known to be in accord with President Will
son's policy for national defense and Is
believed to be In sympathy with the con
gressional plan for thu federalization of
the natlonnl guard, rather than In the
organization of a continental army, as ad
vocated by former Secretary of War Llnd
ley SI. Garrlsoivwhom he succeeds.
Baker first sprang into prominence as a
dlsclplo of tho late Tom L Johnson, Cleve
land's fighting Democratic Mayor He was
born in Startinsburg, W Va., December
3, 1871. He was graduated from Johns
Hopkins in 1892. educated in tho law at
Washington and Lee University and ad
mitted to the West Virginia bar In 1894,
After practicing for a time he was made
secretary to the, late William L Wilson
when the latter was Postmaster General
In Grover Cleveland's Cabinet
TODAY.
Transportation Committee of the
United Business Men's Association,
4 p. m.
TONIGHT.
Walnut Street Business Associa
tion. Northwest Business Men's Asso
ciation. Chester Avenue Business Men's
Association.
TOMORROW NIGHT.
Allied Business Mcn'j Associa
tion of West Philadelphia, meeting
jointly with Councilmanic Associa
tion of West Philadelphia.
South Street Business Men's As
sociation, Board of Directors.
Business Men's Association of
Gcrmantown, Board of Directors.
Frnnkford Board of Trade.
Woodland Avenue Business
Men's Association.
An open threat to defeat tho $35,000,000
transit loan at the polls on May 1C, hacked
up by an organized movement to line up
tho voters In nvoiy ward In tho city, is
the club which will bo held ocr the heads
of Mayor Smith nnd tho administration
leaders during the Impending-transit fight
The modification of the Twining plans
to benefit the outlying sections of tho city,
according to the iccommendatloni of for
mer Transit Director Taylor, or tho defeat
of tho transit loan at tho hands' of tho
voters of tho city, are the two alternatives
which will bo offered tho administration
leaders. Business and civic organizations,
led by the All-Philadelphia- Rapid Transit
Association, confident that they will ho
able to lino up an overwhelming ma
jority against the Twining changes nt tho
May primary, havo outlined this as their
plan of campaign.
Tho first step will bo taken today, when
an nmendmont to tho $80,500,000 loan bill,
providing for the separation of tho,
$35,000,000 transit Item from tho re
mnlndar of the loan, will bo drafted under
tho direction of the All-Philadelphia-!
Rapid Transit League. Tho amendment
will be Introduced nt the next meeting of
Councils.
With the division of the municipal loan
bill now before Councils Into two separate
bills, tho general program of city im
provements will not bo jeopardized by the
transit fight, Common Councilman Will-
Continued on rage live. Column Two
HIGHEST COURT CALLS
LICENSING OF TRADING
STAMP FIRMS LEGAL
HOUSE DEBATE ON ARMED SHIPS FIXED AT 5 1-2 HOURS
WASHINGTON, March O.-The House Bulcs Committee this
afternoon ngieed on tho rule under which the McLemore resolution
warning Americans not to travel on armed shjps will be bi ought up
In tho House tomonow. The tulo provides for five and a'lmlf hours
of debate, ono and a half of which will be on the rule itself niul tho
othei four on tho lesolution proper. At the end of the debate the
nile piovldcs thnt the way be cleared to bilng- a motion to tabic It.
NICHOLSON ASSAILS HIGH-PRICED CHOIRS'
Evangelist William P. Nicholson, who is conducting1 a revival
In Dai by, today scoied the employment of high-priced choirs and
other entcitaiuuient means of getting people to attend church, while
addic&sing t;ho Congregational ministers of Philadelphia and viciuity
iuthc Centi.il Biaucb Y. M. C. A.
LAPLAND DODGED U-BOATS BY DEVIOUS ROUTE
X13W YORK, March 6. Scarred by severe gales, tho White Stai liner Lap
land reached port today from Liverpool with 236 passongcrs on board.
Tho liner wns put through complicated maneuvers to avoid German sub
marines, and it is reported that she went north of Ireland Instead of following
the regular steamer lanes south of Ireland, but the officers refused to say so.
A double watch of 12 men was stationed in tho bow of tho ship while In tho
danger zone. No wireless messages were sent during the voyage.
PRESIDENT NAMES FRANCIS FOR AMBASSADOR
WASHINGTON, March G. President Wilson today nomlnnted David B.
Francis, of St. Louis, to bo Ambassador to Russia.
MEXICANS CARRY TYPHUS TO EL PASO, TEXAS
EL PASO, Tex., March 6. Tlucu Mexicans found to be suffering; from typhus
wero isolated today vvhllo the authorities were conducting a rigid search for
other cases. The patients now under observation recently enmo from Mexico.
U. S. FAILS TO GET RELEASE OF SAN MARINO CITIZENS
SAN MARINO, Republic ot San Marino, Marcli G. Efforts mado by Am
bassador Pcnfleld, tho American envoy at Vienna, to obtain tho relcaso of
citizens of San Marino arrested In Austria have- failed. It was announced today,
at a mcetlnfr'of tho Council of t)io Republic. A telegram from tho Ambassador
stated that Austria had icfuscd to release the prisoners, on tho gtouri'd that
San Marino had grossly violated Its neutrality by assisting Italy.
READING RAISES PUDDLERS' WAGES
READING, Pn March 6. Tho promised raiso In the wages of puddlcrs o
tho Rending Iron Company wont Into effect at tho company's mills hero today,
the increase being from $4.75 to $C a. ton. It is said that a similar Increase will
be mado at tho company's plant at Danville, Pa.
ITALIAN TAX BURDEN CAUSES UNREST
GENEVA, March 6. Thero Is considerable, unrest In Italy jiver the ta
burden, which Is getting heavier and heavier, say travelers who havo Just arrived
.from Home- Since. October; 1914tnore tlian $80,000,000" frdsh taxation has Ajeen
imposed. Prices for tlfo necessities of life are steadily rising.
DENIES INTERNMENT OF AMERICANS AT SOFIA
WASHINGTON, March 6. The State Department was notified today that
reports of tho Interning nt Sofia, Bulgaria, of Mrs. Walter Farwell, a Chicago
newspaper woman; Dr. Harry Forbes nnd a Miss Mitchell, all Americans, wera
untrue. Special Agent Einstein, who was detailed to make an Investigation,
reported that the Americans were free to go any time.
SHIPPING MEN OPPOSE
INCREASE IN CHARGES
WASHINGTON WALKS
AS STRffiE HALTS CARS
Protest Against Remedy Pro
posed for Ending of
Freight Embargo
By a Staff Correspondent
WASHINGTON, March B. Representa
tives of various shipping interests of the
country, in conference today as a prelude
to their appearance wlt,h railroad men
before the Interstate Commerce Commis
sion on trafflo congestion In Philadelphia,
New York and other Atlantlo coast ports,
voted against increases In track and ware
house storage charges as a remedy,
Separate conferences were held by tho
shippers and railroad men. following a
brief hearing before the, Commission, How
ard Elliott, president of the Now Haven
road, was tho only speaker at the hearing
prior to adjournment for the two con
ferences to outline the hearing and select
speakers. R. H Largo represented the
Pennsjlvanla Railroad.
Continuation of all embargo was tha
remedy suggested by Mr- Elliott He de
IT.'rr .1 !, n,.n v,oa 88.000 cars
waiting to ba, unloaded, but added that
only 6 per cent, of his road's trafflo was
In war munitions. Indicating that it Is
other trade that Is suffering.
R, M Parker, of Brooklyn, speaking at
the conference of shippers, declared much
of the trouble tq be due to abuse of de
murrasa privileges on publlo sidings by
shippers ordering more cars than they can
unload or otherwise handle JH-J UJ
was attacked by other BP?ker3'I1,1?;
Uted that the first duty of a railroad I
service, and that all shippers should pot
suffer dlserimlnallon for the c of ;
The conference then adopted a resolution
Sflreawsuirage charg-en m jsosaiWa so-
tuuoa 6t UM GOWWiwa.
1500 Demand Wage Changes.
Poorly Equipped for
Holdoui
WASHINGTON, March 6. Senators
and Congresmen who do not own auto,
mobiles are walMng to work today, as
the result of a strike of street railway
motormen and conductors. The motormen
and conductors want 30 cents an hour, in
stead of the 22 H and SB cents they now
receive. Also they want u nlnahqur day,
with the, nine hours not scattered aver
more than a 12-hour period.
The strike, one day old, has resulted In
considerable Inconvenience, little violence
and endless conferences. Tho two traction
companies Involved are operating about
half tha usual number of cars by use of
l''5 bonuses and other special induce
ments, but 1500 carmen are striking, and
It Is estimated 40,009 or 0,000 .persons
accustomed to riding are walking.
Meanwhile, several Senators and Con
gressmen are preparing resolutions, and
It Is considered prqbabla that several
schemes of arbitration win be outlined In
the jneasures to be Introduced.
One contention between company and
men hinges on the present bonuses, profit
sharing schemes, relief association bene
fits etc. The company contends these are
a substantial addition to the wages It
nays. The rnn want these Indirect bene
fits abolished, and what they earft Includ
ed. In the regular pay checks.
Among the. labor leaders who have ar
rived to conduct the strike are Mother
Jones and several national officers of tha
American Federation of Labor President
sarnuel aenwrs has. his office In the city
Tha railway companies refuse to con
alder tha demands and sra especially oij.
nosed to tn unlonisattei of their m
ptoyM, the union haYjS ben organise
withiji a last W weeks.
I RUSSI B0MBARDAN0
TREBIS0NDA DAL MARE
I Turch'i Asportano le Batterie
di Grosso Calibro Temendo
l'Awicinarai del Nemico
Un comunlcato ufffclale pubbllcato lerl
sera a Petrograd dice che una squadra
navale russa ha bombardato it porto turco
dl Trebsonda, sulla costa dell'AsIa Minora
del Mar Nero. Parecchle Imbarcazionl
turche che, si trovavano pel porto sono
state dtstrutts, e sebbene la batterie dt
dlfesa rtspondessero al fuoco delle navl.
quest! potettero rltlrarsl senza dannl
dopo aver compluta la loro mlsslone, SI
crede cha la grosse batterie turche sono
Btate smantellate a causa dell'avviclnarsl
delle forze russe da Erzerum.
Nottzie da Parlgl dicono che la bat.
taglla d Verdun non e' flniU ma che
gll attocchl di fanterla tedesca vanno dl
venendo plu1 deboli Nella notte scorsa
non si e avuto alcun attacco, a soltanto I
cannonl hanno parlato, Gil a la tori tran
ces! hanno fatto parecch! volt audaclssinl
suite llnea tedesche per scoprire le post
zlonl delle batterie nemlche dt grosso cali
bro che tlrano su Verdun da setta mlgla
dl dlstanza.
I (Leggera In 4a, paglna le ultima a plu'
dettagliate notlzla sulla guerra, in Jtal-lano)
Florida Law Affecting Similar
Statutes in Twenty Other
States Upheld in
Decision
COMPANIES1 LOSE FIGHT
WASHINGTON. March 6 Companies
giving trading stamps or similar coupons
with purchases have lost their fight
against the Florida license law.
Tho law wns upheld In the Supreme
Court here today. This was regarded as
a test case and its results will affect sim
ilar laws tn 20 other States
The Florida law assessed a State
license fee for companies using trading
stamps and an added county license fee
vof $250 In each county where a store was
operaxeu ine companies uecmreu una
was confiscatory, discriminatory and In
violation of the 14th amendment
The lower court granted a permanent
Injunction against the State enforcing tho
act and from this tho State officials ap
pealed. Companies capitalized at many millions
of dollars and chains of stores using
stamps and coupons were deeply concerned
in the case.
Other States which have been watching
this case are now expected to pass legis
lation which will more completely re
strict the territory In which trading stamp
companies may now carry on their liusl
ness, as the decision gives State legis
lators the power to prevent tha issuance
of profit-sharing coupons of, all kinds,
BRITISH STEAMSHIP SUNK IN MEDITERRANEAN
LONDON", March C. Tho British steamship Mosunda, 4052 tons, has been
sunk, presumably by a submarine In the Mediterranean. AH on board, Includ
ing a number of passengers, wero saved. Tho announcement of the loss of
tho vessel gave no details, but it was reported this afternoon that thero wero
no Americans on the Masunda, which sailed from Bangkok on January 28. Its
route lay through tho Suez and the Mediterranean. Tho Masunda was built
In 1909. It was 402 feet long and 62 feet wide. The steamer's home port
was Glasgow.
EXPLOSJON DESTROYS TURKISH MUNITIONS PLANT
ATHENS, March 6. A large Turkish ammunition factory, built In tha
Palestine village which occupies tho site of tho ancient city of Satrarla, .was
destroyed by an explosion Sunday, according to advices from Constantinople.
Many were killed, some of the victims being burned In the ruins.
CRUDE OIL PRICE ADVANCED 10 CENTS A BARREL
PITTSBURGH, March 6. The Joseph Seep Purchasing Agency today announced
an advance of ten cents a barrel in tho price of Pennsylvania crude oil to $2 60.
This is the highest price at which this grade has sold In a number of years.
Other grades of Eastern crude oil were raised proportionately.
C. If. Bhaun, Society Mati, Off to War
Charles H. Bhaun. nephew of George
A. Huhn, has left this city for the war
zone. He enlisted In tho mechanical trans
port service qt the Canadian contingent
Mr Rhaun Us well known among members
of the Main Line country clubs. During
part of the year ha lived In Beverly. N J
Couple Blark 50th Wedding Year
LANCASTER, Pa., March S John
Kuans, for many years a member of tha
iutviMigf iu4K9 xujrce sua suu oh ?xive
duty, and Mrs. Kulma today celebrated
tteuj- loth wedding anuivwwy
SNOW, IN A SWIRLING
STORM, COVERS EARTH
Double - Crosses Bewildered
Weatherman, Who Looked
for Rain
Henvj snow that literally poured out of
the sky descended upon the olty shortly
after 11 o'clock today, piling thickly over
street and roof.
Nine hundred men of the Bureau of
Highways were sent out at 1 o'clock,
armed with brooms and shovels, to keep
the crossings In the central part of tha
city clear The fleet of snowplows was
put in readiness to go out on a mo
ment's notice, and the entire force of men
was notified to be prepared. Sweepers
were sent out over the routes of tha
Philadelphia Rapid Transit Company to
clear the tracks,
Even the weather man was surprised
when the big Hakes began to fall When
he recovered from his astonishment he
said he expected tha snow to contln.ua
until tonight The prediction had been
rajxi tonight and tomorrow, with rising
temperatures, tain or snow la south Jer
bey and northern Pennsylvania. But the
east winds, which ha expected to shift to
south this afternoon, bringing rain, and
warmer weather, "double-crossed" bun
by continuing to blow from, tha east,
bringing snow As. soon s the wind
shifu, ha ws, tha snow will turn to rata.
PORTUGAL PREPARES FOR WAR DEFENSE
LISBON, March 6. In expectation of war with Germany, tho Portuguese
Government has adopted strong defensive measures. Lights In tha harbors
and in the vicinity of dangerous reefs are forbidden at night to prevent the
entrance of enemy vessels. AH tho Portuguese warships are closely guarded
to make submarine attacks futile.
ITALIAN SHIP TORPEDOED WITHOUT WARNING
PARIS, March 6. The Italian steamship Glava, torpedoed by an Austrian
submarine, was sunk without warning, according to survivors of tho crew who
arrived at Piraeus on tho British Bteamer Trevelyan on March I, a Havas dis
patch from Athens states. The rescded men said that the submarine, flying tha
Austrian flag, was met 130 miles from Cape Mattapan while tha Glava was en
route from Leghorn, Italy, to Greek ports. While tho submersible gave no warn
ing and did not visit the freighter, they stated, passengers and crew wera allowed
to leave in three boats, which, after being rowed for five hours, met tha Trevelyan.
POLICE CHARGE COLOGNE RIOTERS, LONDON HEARS
LONDON, March 6. Food riots occurred Saturday in the market place of
Cologne, travelers arriving at Berne, Switzerland, report. They wera started by
women, who made violent demonstrations in protest against tha high prices.
Police charged the mobs, wounding a number of persona.
POLES
JPEAL FOR POPE'S AID
ROME, March , The SSHsh bishops have appealed confidentially to- tha
Pope to defend Poland's unity since, they say, both Germany's proposed autonomy,
which practically amounts tci protectorate, and Austria's intended annexation
have the exclusive purpose ux raiaiug iruujia. jiencu ine rope is urged o usa
his Influence with the Kaiser and vilth Emperor Francis Joseph to have Poland
fata held in abeyance until peace is declared, when it can be settled at a conference.
ARGENTINA FACES CoXl FAMINE
BUENOS AIRES, March 6. The scarcity of Coal is becoming a serious prob
Jem in Argentina, and Uruguay. A delegation of tha Shipping Association called
on President Plaza and asked co-operation of tho Government. Meanwhile aav
erai railway lines have begun to use. wood Tha scarcity of poal Is due principally
to lack of adequate tonnage to bring it here. The price) of wood has risen sharply.
KRUPP GUNS SOLD TO FOES, LIEBKNECHT CHARGES
LONDON, March 6.A speech made before the Prussian Diet by Dr Kurl
Liebknecht. Socialist leadert is glen in a dispatch from neuter's correspondent
at Amsterdam. He is quoted as saying. "One member of tha Luebeek St-tnta
is in prison or having placed his copper mines at the disposal of the BiuWiu.
Ypu all knovy haw capitalists uro Internationally related, especially um rcSfcrsl
tha Armament Industry. German soldier have beou killed by tu sai;-jld !y
th4 Krupps," -
I-
-u.
P wff wtftrli; winds.
