EXTRA! ?()c ftoning EXTRA!
No. 20,249. WASHINGTON, D. C., MONDAY, MARCH 6, 1916.-EIGHTEEN PAGES. ONE CENT.
CAR S
AGREEMENT TO ARRITRAT
BROUGHT ABOUT BY E
OF DISTRICT CO!
Motormen and Conductors Will Go Back
to Work at Once Pending Adjustment
of Grievances.
?r
Company Officials and Leaders of Strikers Agree in |
Predicting Satisfactory Settlement of
Questions at Issue.
The street car strike has been called off. =
Following a conference late today be- M
tween the District Commissioners, officials
of the Capital Traction Company and
Washington Railway and Electric Com
i e .i _ . a :l ..
party ana organizers or uie street railway m
union it was decided that the men should
go back to work pending arbitration of
the matters at difference between them B(
and the street railway companies.
Officials authorized to speak for both sides in
" Coi
this controversy agree that they believe all differences
will be satisfactorily adjusted. The
strike that has been inconveniencing the public
for two days is in reality ended.
The decision to suspend the strike pending
arbitration of difficulties was reached after many ^
hours of conference, and after officials of the co'
' I pol
railway companies had warned- the public that
they might in the interests of safety suspend all trc
service this evening.
t Vij
The Commissioners began their conferences as mediators shortly
after the strike was declared early yesterday morning, and they were "]
continued at intervals all day yesterday and through the night until ">*
about 4 o'clock this morning. They continued their activities this ?
morning, and a conference with the two factions began about 2 ha
o'clock this afternoon.
The demands of the street car employes, which, by the agreement ve5
reached this afternoon, are to be submitted to arbitration, are:
Recognition of the union; 30 cents an hour for all con- a'c
ductors and motormen; nine or ten hours' duty, to be completed
within twelve consecutive hours; regular men relieved 1.
of extra duty when an extra man is available; where regular
men are called to report for duty and do not go out, for any : N>
cause not their own, they shall be paid from the time they i we
report until relieved at their regular rate of wages. j"
During the morning and early afternoon the street car com-'''?
panics made strenuous efforts to keep sufficient cars in operation vi"
to accommodate the public. ier
cai
Trade unionists and sympathetic government clerks who walked j p?
or patronized jitneys today-as their share of support to the striking n'c
street railway employes made it possible for the street car companies i?
tUa r*miir*m?ntc nf nrartiraTlif oil tliALo ,.>Un i.naU.J .1 J. '
ivs UI?Vl viiv. IVVJU41VIUV11VO v? ?? mwov **"U WIOUCU IU X1UC I Opl
; slo
on street cars. ag,
Officials of both companies declared that from 60 to 70 percent! on'
of the usual number of cars were operated this morning. The Wash- I i"
ington Railway and Electric Company claimed to be running 70 per Thl
cent and the Capital Traction claimed to be running 60 per cent. y0
tai
Say Few Cars Are Running. three mail deliveries today in the resi- an
derive sections there were but two. ter
Members of the union, however, acof- The interurban mails are being moved iro
fed at these statemeifts. and asserted at !,ht post
, olii.e Mails for Rockville and Laurel
that not more than a quarter of the uaua, are .shipped by steam railroad,
r,umber of cars were operated today No reports of violence were received ^
*>% either companv. even at the rush at headquarters The strike as it so far rei
, ,.11 progressed had been a good-natured one. r,0i
hours They simultaneously attacked The ?lrikers. this afternoon, arranged P
th*-' companies from an oblique angle to meet at National Rifles Armory in atT
by complaining to the public utilities i ?,JturH? a* ' > pographieal Temple was
..... . , found to be too small to hold all those
commission that the companies are at- who to attend the meetings, f*
tempting to operate cars with seven- J They reported an accession of seventy- mc
teen and eighteen year old hoys, that i hlx rneri *? their numbers today. Hh<
motormen, in the effort to make it ap- ,, _ tio
pear that a large number of cars are ; xew People at Car Barns. j
being run. are passing Are stops at : ,, . . i??a
h.^h and 1., and othgr Two *"la" b0>? 8,0?" n?r ">* Mh
ways endangering the lives of the pub- l^tieet entrance of the navy yard about f0
lie. ! 'J o'clock this morning. Across the Co
The Central I*abnr Union declared j street the big barn of the Capital Ne
today that it intends to ask < 'ongress Traction Company was almost deserted tor
to forfeit the charters of th** railway I Two or three men stood at the corner Pa
companies for halting the street car their coat collars turned up around to
service Jast night, and Senator Norr.s their ears A man stood at a window "
of Nebraska announcedI that he w ill ( 0f car ^artt looking out with a Yo
support any resblution likely tc? brniK i
aholit government ownership of th* H? f ? doxen car. were on, gal
railwa> a here, in view of the eon- h' ,rac.ku w,llin' ' H,a1rt th*,r "-'I"1 11
ditions He eited reasons in favor of 'oward the ritv The only pergons on pri
government ownership, among them. 1 were the motormen and con- I
he said being the possibility of giving V,r.,ors . m<
tii* men increased wages and shorter smaller of the two hoys wore a 1
hours. dingy red sweater that used to belong be
A? ft rooult of the strike instead of (Continued on Tenth Page.)
;tr
'e i*
fforts
missioners
\\ a
res]
DAY IN CONGRESS. con
Senate: wit
Met at noon. effc
Debate on Shields water power
bill was continued. pan
Indian committee resumed con- jjj <
sideration of appropriation bill.
Houari !9'
Met at noon. ^ COIt
Rules committee considered a aris
rule on the McRemore resolution.
Admiral Fletcher testified be- i rnn
fore the naval affairs committee.
tlOl
' DISTRICT IN CONGRESS. can
? and
Hotinet
The House took up the Carlin tipc
Aqueduct bridge bill for discys- I
sion.
abs
? resl
0 DISORDERS DUE I
TO LOCAL STRIKE 5
/
cer
aj. Pullman Is Personally in sel<
Charge of Police Force *0'r
Handling Situation. ^
and
3TH COMPANIES' LINES
TO BE PATROLLED DAILY dat
_ Clllf
mplaints of Fights or Other Trou- t
ble Prove Groundless in Every pGjr
Instance TTnon Investigation. 1,<? .
ing
Taj. Pullman, superintendent po- \fy
e, was in personal charge of the
mbers of his command handling the c'
ike situation today. He had men foin(
?ng the lines of both street railway
npanies and at places where strikers
igregated. Early this afternoon the ([tie
lice said splendid order was being
.intained.
leveral reports of fights or other
uble were received by the police, mei
I investigations. promptly made,
jwed they were without the slight- Ala
foundation. One complaint was to i*
* effect that an oil wagon had imled
the-progress of a street car and
noyed passengers.
That complaint and others came from her
rsons whose names were not furhed.
it is stated, and the police hope Api
?re will be no repetition of such
n plaint s. aw;
'The department has enough on its
nds in attending to legitimate mat's."
said a member of the force,
ithout wasting time in useless in- ?*PP
^ligation."
t is Maj. Pulli?>an's intention to keep
increased number of men on duty
light to preserve order, and early I
ruing details have been ordered
niii for tomorrow.
Alleged Attempt to Stop Traffic.
larly this morning an attempt was
de. it is alleged, to put the car lines tllC
of commission at New York and j-j-jpw
Jersey avenues. A pinch bar was
dged in the slot where it would inter- Ot
e with cars on the northbound New
*sey avenue tracks of the Capital Trac- 1
ri Company and the eastbound tracks
the Washington Railway and Kiectric
mpany on the City and Suburban diion.
'ollowing the report of this atnpt,
Maj. Pullman got into communi:ion
with the officers of the several
icincts and directed them to have
?ir motor cycle, bicycle and policemen
un ted on houses to patrol the lines of II'
i railway eo panies to see that no at- '
npts to damage property were made,
e superintendent of police was of the
inion that the wedging of the car track
ts might cause serious property dame
and loss of life.
'oliceman William Haller of the sec1
precinct went to New York and New
-sey avenues at 2:10 o'clock and reived
the pinch bar from the slot. It
s reported to tiie station that somerip
out of the ordinary had happened * .
the vicinity of New Jersey and New ASt
rk avenues. There had been some
npering with the tracks, he was told.
d when he reached the street car in- ___
section he quickly found the piece of Pas
n wedged in the slot.
Feared Electric ShnpV (
V ij
."ot knowing if there was a deadly curit
passing through the slot rails, the
iceman proceeded to remove the ob- SOI1
notion, using only his baton. ZZ~
I was afraid to touch the bar with my
re hinds," he said, "fearing death !
im electric shock. I succeeded in reiving
the bar without receiving a
>ck, however, and took it to the sta- Soci
n."
^ater in the morning Capt. Doyle
rned that the iron bar removed from
s slot by i'oliceman Haller belonged
the Washington Hallway and Electric
mpany. It waij kept at 4th street and rail
w York avenue for use when the aui.i-iic
switch connecting the I^e Droit
rk and City and Suburban lines failed E s'
work.
I think the bar was taken from New *n
rk avenue and 4th street by boys,"
d ('apt. Doyle, "and not by strikers. '
looked to me as if it were a boyish '
ink." the
lis opinion was not shared by all the ugjr
mibers of his command.
-'ollowing an order issued to mem- ?
rs of the police department direct- A
(Continued on Tonth Page.) of t
*
IKE If
GREEMENT BY WfflCB 1
CAR STRIKE IS CLOSED
March 6, 1916.
MEMORANDUM.
It is agreed between the Capital Traction Company and the
shington Railway and Electric Company, respectively, and their
oective employes, that: I
I. Committees to be selected from the employes of each of the
lpanies named who were in service March x, 1916, shall meet
h the officials of said companies for the purpose of making an
>rt to settle all controversies now existing between said comies
and their aforesaid employes, to wit: The matters mentioned
sections 3, 5, 6, 7. 8, 9 and 10 of the memorandum of March 1,
6, and also the question of the creation of permanent grievance
imittees of employes that, in questions and grievances that may
;e in the future, shall meet and treat with officers of the respective
ipanics, and also the question of the creation of boards of arbitra1
to which shall be submitted all questions and grievances that
not be settled by conference between officers of the companies
the grievance committeest and whose awards shall be binding
>11 all parties; and also the question of a plan for assuring mems
of the grievance committees that they shall be granted leave of
ence on grievance business when such leave is requested, and
tored to their former positions when they cease to be members
such committee.
2. That committees representing the foregoing employes shall
selected at a meeting which shall be arranged by the Commislers
of the District of Columbia so as to give to all of the said
ployes the opportunity to be present. That the meeting shall be
ed and arranged for March 6, 1916, and the Commissioners shall
tifv to the traction companies the names of the committees so
:cted, and when so selected said committees shall forthwith meet
h the officials of the resepective companies and remain in session
three days, or so much thereof as may be necessary, to reach an
eement or disagreement. It is agreed that the said committees officers
of the respective companies shall sign any agreement as .
iny questions settled by them, and such agreement shall be bind- I
upon all parties to this agreement for a period of one year from I
e of signing.
3. That in the event that the committees representing the said
>loyes and the officials of the respective traction companies have
reached an understanding within the time above specified, such
its at issue which have not been mutually agreed upon shall
;ilKmiftpfl tfi a Knarrl nf arKitrotinn t r\ Ko f/irmo/l m folloti- I
manner: One member to be selected by the said employes; one
the traction companies, and the two being empowered to select (
lird. The findings of the board of arbitration shall be final and
ling upon all parties to this agreement.
4. It is hereby expressly stipulated and agreed'that the first
stion to be considered will be the reinstatement of men who r
e been discharged since February 13, 1016. by both companies. |
5. It is hereby further agreed that the matter of the appoint- ^
it of arbitrators, if such shall be necessary, shall be taken -up on ""
rch 11. 1916. and their selection completed not later than March
1916, when the arbitrators have been so selected they shall forth- !
h enter upon the consideration and discharge of their duties as '
ein provided and render, if possible, their award not later than 1
ril 1, 1916. ^ntt any advance, however, in wages that may be 1
irded shall become effective March 15, 1916.
6 . It is the purpose and intent of this agreement that upon its 1
iroval all employes of both companies who left their employment 1
March 5. 1916. shall return to and be reinstated in their former
itions. / '
7. It is further agreed that the award by the arbitration board. u
uch be necessary, shall be attested and signed by the accredited p
rials of the traction companies and the committees selected by ?
employes of the respective companies named in section 1 of this '
morandum, said award to remain in force arfd effect for a period
one year from date of signing.
* b
>ANISH STEAMER WRECKED; I
MANY LIVES PROBABLY LOSTa
nly 143 Known to Have Been Saved of r
445 Persons Aboard the Principe
de Asturias.
SANTOS, Brazil, March 6.?The Spanish steamship Principe de
ntHqe Vioc Kaah nun Ir Kt? c tri In n rr o r/vrl^ ??? ' ???
.ui lao nao is\,wg guuiv i/jr oviinuig a * v?v?. uut rvv.Hl III U1C UUllUIIl
five minutes. Eighty-six members of the crew and fifty-seven
sengers have been brought to Santos.
The survivors were brought to Santos by the French steamer
;a. A Spanish steamship is standing by.
LONDON, March 6.?Lloyd's reports that there were 445 pers
on the Principe de Asturias.
SUPPORTS THE STRIKERS. FORMER MAYOR PLEASED.
alist Party Announces Sym- President'. Selection for Secretary of
TIT... . n ? War Is Deeply Grateful,
pathy With Street Car Men. Cleveland, Ohio. March 6 ?1 have
ie Aocialist party indorsed the street rothingr to say except that I feel cornway
strike and promised moral and plimented by the President's conflncial
support at a meeting at 811 dence' 1 am deeply *rateful and certainly
appreciate what he has done."
treet northwest last evening. These were thg wordg of Newto?
eluded in the resolution was this Diehl Baker, former mayor, today
igraphr when asked for a statement regard's.
?,r(v also liters its nennir and in* hiB appointment by President Wll- hi
he part> also uiges its people and gon to b# Secretarv of War t0
citizens generally to refrain from Mr. Raker confirmed his acceptance vi
ig the street cars during the period and then continued arguing a law suit tt
ha strike" ,n common pleaa court, in whioh he ni
, .. was engaged, when the word came to
collection taken up for the benefit him that his appointment had boon an- si
hs strikers brought in 16.62. nounced. a
*
SEND
I ALL CAR SERVICE TO BE
SUSPENDED AT 7 O'CLOCK
The agreement reached is, that at a meeting
to be held at 8 o'clock tonight in Convention
Hall, presided over by Commissioner
! Newman, and attended by all the employes
of the two railroad companies who were in
the service March 1, committees will be
selected from the employes of each company,
said committees to confer with the officers of
the respective companies in an effort to adjust
the matter in controversy.
In case there is a disagreement on one or
more matters, the questions in disagreement
are to be submitted to arbitration by a board,
one member to be selected by the companies,
one by the employes, and they to select the
third.
All street car service will be suspended at
7 o'clock tonight, one hour before the meeting,
in order to permit all the employes of
the companies to attend, the suspension to
continue until the meeting is over.
Later it was announced that a limited service
might be maintained during the meeting,
in case some employes do not desire to attend
and are willing to run cars at that time.
linifTftil ^ n 1 l/rn At thP White House today it was
l||_lAf||lnl ' U A If I- IJ neither officially confirmed nor Heniori
Iim IIIIV II nunrn I that Mr. Baker would get the place.
lL II lUll l/a Ufll ILII Officials strongly encouraged the use
of his name, and it was understood
in n I ir- fi r\ that Mr- H<lker bad been definitely
fl Rr Wun nFflll t<kirl>'-da> period for which Maj.
II III IV rill III III J Gen- Hu&h I- Scott, chief of stafT. was
V 90 mm 111 111 designated Secretary of War ad interim,
will expire March 11. It is be
lieved Mr. Baker's nomination will be
sent to the Senate before that time.
:ormer Mayor of Cleveland Is Active in Beform Movement.
Selected by President for Fnr years Mr Baker haa b?n
J closely identified with the reform
( Pohinof Rorth movement in Cleveland and has taken
an active part in the street railway
! controversy there. When Mayor Tom
Johnson died Mr. Baker took up the
Newton I). Baker, former right for lower street car fares in
r /?*i i 11 u ? ? a Cleveland argued the case before the
navor of Cleveland, has been se- ,
Supreme < ourt and finally brought
ected bv President Wilson for about an adjustment of the street rail!
way franchises in Cleveland.
)ecretar\ of v\ ar. : tjie time of the Baltimore conMr.
Baker has accepted the ventiont *han Fr*s'der,t Wilso" ";as
1 _ nominated Mr. Baker was prominently
)OSltion, aild is now- arranging mentioned for the vice presidency belis
affairs in Cleveland prepara- ?\' *** fi8h<he 'nade,in support
V 1 of Mr. Wilson. He went to the conOry
to coming to \\ asnington to ventioTi as a Wilson supporter and
.... | fought successfully against the appliake
Up IllS duties. cation of the unit rule to the Ohio
The selection of Mr. I laker is delegation.
, 1^1 ?1 ,li<- Mr. Baker has been known for
mdcrstOOd t?? na\e DCCll (lis vears as a leader of the Ohio bar and
. (> j 4 \\ iiLMl, with is highly regarded by the President as
USSCcl bv I resident Wilson Willi lawver. -Mr. Wilson wanted the
-? ? ft ? ^ft?r the I place tilled by a lawyer because of
_ol. K. M- I lOUse, SOOll after uie jPRaj questions constantly arising in
t <l,i mnrniiiff the administration of the War Hepartatter
s arrival here this morn inUl(t|lt ,i14> Philippines, the Panama
When President Wilson was maWng ,-anal and Porto Kieo.
p his cabinet in 1013 he offered the js Native of West Virginia,
lace of Secretary of Interior to Mr. .
lake, twice Mr Baker then was! New ton IMehl Baker, who ,8 a demoavor
of fleveland an,! de-lined for oat. was horn m Marttnsburg W Va..
ia>or Ui December 3. lt>. 1. son of Newton Diehl
hat reason. an(J Mary Dukehart Baker. He obClose
Friend of President's. tained the degree of bachelor of arte
J . a Mr Raker have from Johns Hopkins College in 1892
Th? President and Mr. rsaKer na\e ... , , ,
een close friends for some time and and received his >L.D. from Washingave
corresponded frequently. Mr. Ba- ton and Gee Lmvers.ty 1894. July
er is said by his friends to he in close 5. 1902; he married Mtss Elizabeth Geoympdthy
with the President s policies po'-d of Pottstown. Pa.
nd^s known to have had the support Mr. Baker was priva e secretary to
... .: . ,h. Postmaster General Wilson from 1896
f some members of the cab,net for the ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ up ^ ^ ^
When President Wilson recently was of law in Martinsburg. W. Va.
>uring the middle west on his pre- ioii'e'uorTo
aredness program he saw Mr. Baker 1932. He was elected mayor of Cleve1
Cleveland and had a long talk with land in 1912. and served in that canacitv
for two successive terms, amounting
to four years.
J0r Mr. Ba"ker is a member of the Phi
| Gamma Delta Fraternity and a member
of the Union and University clubs
?f Cleveland.
J RUSSIANS SLAY TURKS,
n** AVENGING ARMENIANS
- J
M LONDON, March 6.?The Russian sol>
diers at Bitiis. according to a Petro
W grad dispatch to the Morning: Post,
took a terrible revenge on the Turkish
troops for cruelty which the Turks
^ were alleged to have practiced toward
Sk Armenians in that district. The
"A slaughter followed the
Turkish
j troops wit*
nessed at Van, Mush and many other
places an appalling sight, the massacre,
NKWTON U. BAKEH. namely, by Turkish* fanatics of tens
m. Mr. Rakrr has been In Washing- of <ho"sa'"l8 of Armenian Christian
>n frequently of laU?. and on his last men, women and children, it was unisit
here said he had not been offered ....
le post of Secretary of War, and did Ilkc,y art<*r such deeds that any quar>t
believe he would be ter should be given. This colossal killEver
since Lindley M. Garrison re- . , ^
gned the President lias been seeking ,nR completed the destruction of the
middle western lawyer for the place. Turkish third army.** ^
S
ED
<
GERMANS FEEUNG
FOR WEAK POINTS
ON VERDUN FRONT
Next Assault, It Is Thought, May
Be Made on One of
the French Wings. t
DOUAUMONT SECTOR LINE
RESISTING ALL ATTACKS
i
LONDON", March 6.?The
slashing attacks of the German
infantry in the Verdun region
evidently have been suspended
for tiie time being, a> neither of
the official statements of today
mentions any activity In the infantry
arm, and the 1 lerlin statement
notes a slackening in the
struggle.
The deadlock: in the Douaumont
region, northeast of the fortress,
where desperate battling for Douaumont
village had been going on
for several days, thus is continuing,
but the big guns still are busy
in preparation for further operations.
The shellfirc has been
nota'bly violent toward the French
left flank beyond the westerly
bank of the Meu-se.
Right Flank Under Fire.
Intense artillery activity in the
Woevre region is reported by
Paris, the fire centering upon the
regions of Haudomont and Fresnes,
about ten miles southeast of
Verdun. Military commentators
recently have laid stress upon the
operations in this sector, holding
that the next important drive by
the Germans might be exerted
there, with the object of rolling
up the French right flank.
May Attack Left Wing.
Other indications, however, have pointed
to the possibility that the eyes of the
' German headquarters staff were upon the
extreme French left, across the Meuse
river, where the towering height of I??
Mort Homme commands the lesser eminences
nearby and the surrounding
plains.
j The heavy artillery of the Teutons is
also pounding the defenses in this sector
The French are ready for an infantry attack
there,* but it is doubted in I'aris if
the Germans will attempt the storming
of the commanding position, to reach
which their troops would have 10 deploy
over a mile-wide plain, under a destructive
cross fire.
I
Attack on Fort Tavannes.
The Central News correspondent at
; The Hague says dispatches received
there from the front show that the Germans
are making vigorous efforts to
capture Fort Tavannes, four miles northeast
of Verdun, but that the French are
resisting them resolutely, inflicting heavy
j losses on the attackers. Stubborn fightt
inir ,.ontiniio? near Verdun, the corre
spondent continues.
The village of Vaux no longer exists.
More than 10,000 Germans carried out an
assault upon the French positions at
Vaux. but. the correspondent says, were
repulse^ with large losses, several German
lines being swept away by the
famous French 75s.
I It is also said that twenty-seven train]
loads of German wounded have left the
Verdun battlefields for Germany.
Take 1,000 French Prisoners.
BERLIN, March 6, via London, 5 :L'0
p.m.?Capture of nearly 1,000 French
near Verdun Saturday and Sunday was
announced today by the war office.
I captured east of the Meuse, is fourteen
' officers and 934 men.
The statement follows:
"Western front?Lively mining duels
occurred northeast of Vermelles. British
infantry which delivered minor attacks
on several occasions in thia
neighborhood was repulsed by our fire.
"On the eastern bank of the Meuse
the day passed more quietly than
previous days. Nevertheless we captured
yesterday and the day before,
during minor engagements, fourteen
officers and 934 men."
Artillery Active on Meuse.
PARIS. March 6. via London. l.SB
p.m,?The official statement given out
here today says there were no infantry
actions last night north of Verdun,
but that violent artillery engagements
continue along, the left bank of
the Meuse and intermittently elsewhere.
Calm prevails on the remainder
of the front.
The statement follows:
"In the Argonne we have bombarded
different sections of the forest of
Chappy and the Malancourt-Avocourt
road.
"In the region north of Verdun thg
night passed without any infantry ac(Continued
on Second Pifi.)
' J
