rr
"c
f,'
-UL
rTKT'Mt'
N
r
.
WEATHER FORECAST:
Rain and wanner tonight.
(Pull Report ort Pago Two.)
llie lltotoftm ft me
HOME
EDITION
NUMBEB 8831.
WASHINGTON, MONDAY ETBNDO-, MAJfOH 6, 1016.
PBICBONEOBNT.
CITY FACES ANOTHER CARLESS NIGHT ;
ARBITRATION PLANS ARE IN TANGLE
HOW SOME WORKERS RODE TO THEIR OFFICES
i i i i. i i . i i i i 1 1 i ii i i
,SiiAiiJt-iii ' i' ' .' . .''.'!. , yQr'MBBBBBMBiPBL.iBKSBBiMMBBnRXBBBB- Cv ?i!
j,'rcat vnns aixl mote- trucks fur- 'jflHflllHBYBVHBVMlBF t'M
niimcd by the company. llHiWKUXB&fcK4ii- '' ' V$A
LUNCH MAYI12 KILL!!) I MID tSsWPiKfe&oli
KfmammmSmBs' HBBBMHHBBBpiflBESltiiiyi v.&swKBBBBI
CSS vw.xKjnB' w '.uninBHBHffi''iK'i! 'I'aKiBlBnBBB'if . draFKH
Employes of the Chesapeake and
Potomac Telephone Company wcro
carried to work this morning in
BRYAN
AFFECT LINER VOTE
Pacifists in Congress Gather
at Table as Guests of War
ren Worth Bailey.
A luncheon thut mny have a material
hearintf upon the armed ship vote !n
Congreii and the ccncral prepircOiiiM
Eight Counties Suffer From
Bombs Dropped by German
Dirigibles.
IONOON. Jtnrch 6. Twelve persons
were ltllW anil thlrty-thrfc Injured In
l(it nlBht'i tnld by Zeppc'l" iilrshlpa
prorram was given at Congress llnll, nlontf thn cart ror.rt of England, It ia
Hotel today In honor of William Jon-, officially cnnouncid., by' tho udmlrclty
nlnga Bryan by Concreiamnn Warren todoy.
Worth Bailey of Pennsylvania. j Threo UlriRlblen participated In the
As tho guests of Mr. Billey gathered expedition. It Is believed, although tho
ot the hotel about 1:50 o'clock, tholalmlralty'n earlier ataUunont said but
" wu vw wk Wic iiuuii; WUB 111, "- '- -- " 7
oesilon seeking to frame a rule that will
lesult tomorrow In tabling the Mel,
more resolution to warn Americans not
to uao armed merchantmen of belllc
erent countries,
PTactlcnlly all of the Congressmen
Invited to meet Mr Bryan, who Is an
open advocate of tho Mcl.emore reso
lution, are pacifists.
Mr, Bailey said It was quite possible
that preparedness would be discussed
at the luncheon nnd that Mr. Bryan
"might aay n row words."
When asked If the Invited guests were
not nil In favor of a resolution warn
Ing Americans not to travel on armed
merchantmen, Congressman Bailey
ald:
"I believe we are of one mind on
that question."
Money and Stamps
To Be Plain White
Baltimore Manufacturer of Dyes
Says Shortage Wjll Make
This Necessary.
BALTIMOBE, March .-Vlctor G.
liloede, Jr.. a Baltimore manufacturer
of dyes for the T'nltcd fltatcs Govern
ment. ald fhat currencj nnd Btampi
oon would have to bo .white on ac
count of the lack of fast dyef
Tho P.ov rtnnrm Is trying to aalvo the
Problem of maklmz fait dves tn make
currency ana sumps, said Mr. Bloede. nd 4I Injured.
The dead art! threo men, four women,
and flvo clillilicn.
One dlrlfllblo dropped forty bombs,
destroying liousea on two terraces and
dumnglni; eaveral ntoros, it Is stated
One Zoppelln hurled down bomLs
unon nn area occunled bv dwclllnu of
worklngmon An entire block was ilu-!
mollshed. A woman nnd four of hci
children, the eldest eight years old, were
killed In this district. The husband. In
jured when the house was demolished.
In confined In n hospital, Ignorant of
the fate of his family.
The raiders swept along tho English
coast, dropping bombs on tho toimtlrn
of York. Lincoln. Rutland, Huntingdon,
Cambridge, Norfolk, Essex, and Kent.
I
In extent o territory visited, last
night's ruld wns perhaps the greatest
of the war.
According to the London official state
ment, eight counties, forming the tier
extending along the cast scacoast, were
visited.
Tho Htatement that both Essex and
Kent counties, adjoining the city of
London, were raided, Indicates that tho
Zeppelins .nay have come very close to
London Itself.
Several large towns manufacturing
war munitions, lie within tho counties
mentioned In tho London dispatch.
The cities of Leeds, York, Hull, Lin
coln, and Cambridge arc among tho
most Important In the area covered by
the Germ-ins. Much tho mime terri
tory was visited by tho six Zeppelins
that raided England on the night of
January SO, when ftfiy-nlne porsotm were
killed and 101 Injured.
Last nlzht's raid was the ttvcntwlr.n
aitack on niiKlnnd by German air-craft
kl. co the -fgliinliig of tho war. In
these raids :tz persons navo been killed
N0RR1S WOULD HAVE
U. S. BUY D. C. L
IIS
Benator Xorrls of Nebraska cams
out today sqmtrol in favor or Govern
ment ownership of tho street loilway
lines of the District.
denator Notrls may conclude to In
troduce a bill on tho subject. In any
tvent, he declared today, ho will sup
port any such bill If It comes before
the- Senate. '
"U I had my wny as to the street
car rltuatlon, I would have the Gov
ernment, or the Dlrtrlct. take tlio
Unix over," raid Tenator Norrlx.
"I - ihU not rlraply bocause of
the strike and the present condition
of thine. Howavor, the strike ac
centuate tho nasd of It.
"Washington ought to have tho model
troet railway system of the United
HtntcK, Thcro Is no oxausa for moro
than one system here. All tho lines
should bo consolidated under ono owner
ship, that of the Qovornmont."
THOMAS A. EDISON IS
A GRANDFATHER NOW
NEW YQItK, March .-Mr. and Mrs,
John Kyro Bloutio (Miss Madoltno Eill-
eon), of Halnllold, N. J. mo being con-
Kruumucci upon me uiiiii ot Hon on
Saturday nt Uie homo of Mr. and Mrs
Thomtis A. Kdlson, nt Llowollyn l'ark,
OmtiRo, N. J,
The iuby Is Mr, Edison's first grandchild.
Francis Nominated
U. S. Envoy to Russia
nominated
Pretldent Wilson today
imbasaador to Russia,
David n. Pranois, of 8t. Louis, to be
fti
OFFICIALS HOLD OUT
SLIGHT PROMISE OF
SERVICE AFTER SIX
Proposed Conference to Bring About Under
standing Between Companies and Strik
ers Fails to Materialize Officers Have
Little to Say Concerning Conditions.
HELLO GIRLS RIDE
NGOMPANYTRUCKS
Did you notice that however hard you
may have tried to get down town and
couldn't this morning, you didn't havo
any trouble getting tolepbono calls
throughT
That was because tho Chesapeake and
Potomao Telephone Company hauled all
Its operators who couldn't got to work
conveniently, down town In automobiles.
The young lady operators wore can
vassed yesterday as to how they would
be prepared for getting to work on time,
this morning, In case there were no
street earn tunning. They wera grouped
according to tho section of tho city they
live In, and were called for at their
(Contlnutd oa Second Pate. t
Washington U hieing another night without car
service.
No official can be found who holds out any assurances
that last night's complete tie-up will not be repeated after
6 o'clock tonight
President Hamilton, of the Traction Company, said he
could give no promises, and that all depends upon develop
ments. President King, of the W. R. & E. Co., said he could
make no definite statement whether cars would be stopped
again. "It all depends on conditions," he asserted.
"We wish to notify the public of the possibility of tak
ing off all service soon after nightfall in case of disorder,
the company not wishing to expose its patrons or employes
imneeesfarily' he said. ", --
The Commusioners.and others in authority had little
hope that there will be any change tonight
With both companies operating on "hit-or-miss"
schedules, only a percentage of their usual cars, the Capital
is beginning to feel the full effects of the strike.
The arbitration proceedings, which started off aus
piciously, apparently are now muddled. The meeting
which was to have taken place shortly before noon today
failed to materialize on schedule time.
CONFERENCES TO CONTINUE.
Apparently a miscalculation in the conferees' schedule
was responsible for this cessation. Yet at present nobody
seems to know just when the conferees will get together.
They will continue their sessions, however, is the
statement today from the District Commissioners.
Commissioner Brownlow, who arrived at the District
building about noon after his all-night session, said that
nothing definite regarding either the taking off of the cars
again tonight or the getting together of the (fommissioners
and the railroad factions can be stated at this time.
At 2 o'clock this afternoon the second big nass meet
ing of the strikers was called to order. The car n gather
ed today in the National Rifles Armory. The mory was
secured by them because of the cramped conditions at
Typographical Temple, where the meeting was held yes
terday. At 6 o'clock this morning both railway companies
started their cars running after a twelve hours' lapse.
While badly crippled and totally inadequate the serv
ice on some lines bore a resemblance to normal.
W. R. and E. officials stated that 70 per cent of their
oars were running. Capital Traction officials claimed that
about one-fourth of their usual number were in operation.
Representative of the strikers while making no defin
ite claims scoff at these figures.
One fact that helped to avoid a worse congestion was
the fact that thousands walked to work from preference, the
few cars running not being crowded.
AGREE TO ARBITRATION.
Commissioner Newman stated this morning that both
sides after a series of conferences have agreed to an arbi
tration proposition and the next step in the negotiations is
the discussion of terms.
Both companies reported that more cars are being
put out hourly. Exact track is not kept of them. They are
sent out from the barns as fast as competent rnen can be
obtained to run them, it was stated by officials of both
companies.
"We are getting men from all directions,'' said Mr.
KiBgj of the Washington RaUwajr and Efoctric. "V have
l
