Oregon Historical Society
Comp 207 Second Rt
Ashland -Tidings
"Ashland Grows While Uthla flows"
City of Sunshine and flowers
Ashland, Oregon, Uthla Springs
"Oregon's famous Spa"
VOL. XL
ASHLAND. OREGON, MONDAY, MARCH 6 1916
NUMBER 82
Hawley Pleads for
Fighters' Pension
Puts m speedy Better Babies, Better Parents
Klamath Hunters
Go After Coyotes
Threo hundred and twenty coyotes
were killed in Klamatii couuiy during
the nw'th of February as a result of
tho offer of $5 additional bounty be
Shoe Nailer! w j?
Representative Hawley Is making
an endeavor to have the Indian war
veteran' pension bill changed! by
congress to hake thirty days Instead
of ninety the term or service entitling
the beneficiary to a pensionable
status. In arguing the proposition
before the house of representatives
at Washington Hawley recalled some
of the early Indian experiences In
Oregon. In part he said:
"In southern Oregon, for instance,
on the Rogue river and on the Ump
qua river, through which wagon
trains came over the old Oregon-California
trail, running along the
boundary between Oregon and Cali
fornia, tho Indains would watch un
til the wagon trains were on the river
and were ferrying their tsock and
wagons across. The plan was usual
ly to take the stock and women over
first. The men stayed back to guard
those who were on the side from
which they were departing, some few
having gone on ahead. The Indians
woilld suddenly strike at the women
and children, swooping down, seizing
what they could and carrying them
away. If the men were watchful
they might check them. They would
apply to the settlers, sending out
couriers for aid, and for many miles
around these men volunteered, fur
nished their own equipment, and
came there to either succeed or die
in the relief of those people.
"In addition to the arguments that
have been made In behalf of those
who were regularly enlisted in the
United States service, and for those
who were regularly enlisted In- the
state service, I want to make a plea
for those who rendered volunteer ser
vice and who can prove their ser
Tices. They, too, are worthy of recognition."
Beets and Oil
Excite Siskiyou
The region around Montague and
Gazelle, in northern California, is ex
cited over developments in Shasta
val ey and the prospective establish
ment of a beet sugar factory at Gren
ada, a Southern Pacific station, mid
way between the two places.
The stir is accentuated by the news
that the foothills are being prospect
ed for oil under the direction of S.
A. Wood, a Standard Oil representa
tive. This prospective Is based on the
fact that Judge Weir, D. S. Cones and
T. II. Rominger, capitalists from In
dianapolis, who have bonded 5,000
acres recently in Shasta valley, are
negotiating for the larger ranches of
8. T. Latham and H. P. Orr.
A townsite has been laid out at
Grejada and the map filed for rec
ord. Drilling for oil Is tinder way In the
foothills.
"The Only Girl" At
Page, Medford
"The Only Girl," the new musical
comedy which Joe Weber will pre
sent at the Page Theatre, Medford,
Friday, March 10, Is to a certain ex
tent a new type of this popular the
atrical fare. In writing the book,
Henry Blossom, librettist, has pro
vided what might be termed "a real
comedy" which might stand alone
without Its lyrics, which are admit
tedly of a higher order than usually
a'lotted, and the brilliant score which
has been added by Victor Herbert.
Not In a long time has this composer
been quite so happy In ' providing
tuneful airs as he has In "The Only
Girl." In offering this new musical
play, Manager Joe Weber engaged a
cast which, while there was an ab
sence of so-called "stars," comprised
a company that pn ved notable for
its "team work." Among them are
Edna Munsey, Cecilia Navaslo, Elsie
Baird, Reglna Richards, Anna Wal
wer, Genevieve Houghton, Franklyn
Farnum, Frank Coombs, Thomas
Burton, Russell Lennon and Alfred
Fisher, special orchestra.
The Albany Lumber Company will
ent 1,645,000 feet In the Santlam nat
ional forest.
The Oswego cement plant at Rose
burg has laid three miles of track
from Carnes to a limestone quarry.
Three Pacific coast states have 40
per cent of all the undeveloped water
power In the United States.
An electric sole-nailing machine,!
one which drives 250 nulls per min-,
ute and nails a sole on a shoe in nine
seconds, has been installed at the
Eastern Supply Company. The ma-
! chine is absolutely the fastest built Teacher associations will sell badges there Is no hotter Index to the Intel II
'and1 but few shops in the United on t1"! s'racts, the money realized to j gence of any given community than
States are equiiipoJ.with them, and be used for child's welfare work, j the one to be read in tho conditions
! prd'-ttbiy only one other shop in Ore- The various clubs and societies of the under which it allows its infant clti
'gon. The Eastern Supply Company city will devote their meetings this ' zens to develop; the comfort of its
now has a most complete and upto
' date set of shoe-repairing machin
i ery.
Will Stage Hovie
Thriller Hear Here
Messrs. Allen and Withington, the
Medford photographers who took the
motion pictures of the Rogue River t
valley woven together with a thread -
of drama, which made such a hit ati$S3?JSJ'SJ&$$S
the Oregon building at San Fran-, ?
Cisco throughout the fair, proclaim UTHIA AGAIX FIIWS. S
that the Pacific Highway has opened 3 &
up a wonderful assortment of scenic Under stipulation with Smith, 3
settings which they will use in sev- ' Emery & Co., lithia and sulphur S
eral picture dramas which they con-; s waters are running in the park $
template staging. A motion picture and will continue to flow con- "S
producing company has been organ-1 $ tinuously while further work
ized for the valley with these gentle- a, demanded by the springs com- $
men as the prime movers. $ mission is done and pending an
A picture is now being prepared alysis of the water. The soda
for production and will be staged in , water will be on intermittently. S
the Siskiyou mountains. The plot of , Considerable work is being done i
the 'scenario revolves around a raid at the soda well. 3
upon a "moonshiners' " camp in the's
Sisklyous, with a romantic theme $-$..5-?-f5.'$S$SS$S'$
woven in with sensational features.
Among other settings in the vicin-1 .
ity of Ashland it is planned to have j Vinfflg F 63tUI6S
.Yin Tnnlrnnn lint nn1lnff aflDTlCLa fn ll Q I
Siskiyou grade and on Mount Ash
land used. The herone will be threat
ened with death in the hot spring,
the hero will Jump from one of the
concrete bridges near Steinman to a
moving picture train on the railroad
below, and other "thrillers" making
use of the thousands of "different"
settings near this city used.
A commercial motion picture stu-!
dio will be established near Medford. beautiful musical comedy encnani
in all probability. The weather an will more thaa prove her data
atmospheric conditions of the valley to recognition as one of the foremost
are said to be ideal for motion pho-' dramatic acresses on the screen,
tography and the valley affords an Miss Dawn appears as Dulcie Laron
unliraited variety of settings. j . a young beauty who becomes a
General Sooysmith
Dead at Medford
General William Sooysmith, com-
mander of Union cavalry during her v,eauty, her personal charm, ber
Grant's Shiloh and Vicksburg cam-. bewitching smile and her innate clevk
paigns, with a long and honorable erneg3, t her latest role, however,
Civil War record, died Saturday at she must add to theSe qualifications
Medford in his 86th year. Born in interpretative genius of the most po
Ohio in 1830, he was graduated from tent quaijty That she has done this,
West Point in 1853. I everyone will agree who sees her In
Leaving the army at the close of : the paramount picture,
the war, he attained fame as a civil Wednesday and Thursday,
engineer in the middle west, con- The advance man rf ...Mutt and
structing the first bridge across the tfae mus,cal conied whch ,
Missouri river at Omaha, and solv- i on M Kmh 13 tQ the
uS u. .uuuuauuu pruuielu .u. v,
cago skyscrapers.
He spent his declining years upon
a Medford orchard.
Seven Would Be
Klamath Sheriff
I week at the Vining. It is proclaimed
So law-abiding are the good people to be a really great treat. Don't miss
of the great county of Klamath that j it. With the big film play, "The
the office of sheriff is found to be Coward," will be shown a two-reel
marvellously attractive. Seven can-! comedy featuring jolly fat Rosco Ar
didates are In the field. The Inci-j buckle in "Fickle Fatty's Fall."
dental circumstance that generous , "Fatty" is taking a place alongside
Klamath pays $3,000 a year salary, of Charlie Chaplin in motion picture
the second highest in the state out- J comedy. His comedy is irresistible,
side of Multnomah, possibly adds "The Coward" Is a southern war
sweetness to the prospect. The can
didates to date are:
R. R. Brewbaker, republican.
John H. Collman, republican.
George L. Humphrey, democrat.
C. C. Low, republican, f
C. M. Ramsby, republican.
William Hall, republican.
J. A. Maddox, democrat.
This list Includes the present In
cumbent, Sheriff Low, who has been
compelled to resort to active belllger. (
ence on the metropolitan pavements
of Klamath Falls In order to vindi
cate his physical prowess.
Puhlio Civil Service employes at
Portland have formed a union and
joined the Federated Trades to fight
for shorter hours and bigger pay.
' Yoncalla votes on April 17 on $20,
000 bonds for a municipal water
works.
Beginning yesterday with suitable
sermons in all of the churches, this
week is devoted to the welfare of the j
babies of the country. The Parent-1
week to discussion of child welfare. ;
Every thinking person realizes ;
that th o future depends upon the
good hea'th of the babies and their
proper education and development.
Babies are the raw material of civ
ilization; the p"stlc clay to be
wrought partly, at least, by our
hands, into what form we will. If
we decide that we have no responsl-
bllity for shaping and molding this
clav, we show ourselves to be outside
For the Week
Tuesday night's attraction at the
Vining is Hazel Dawn, "the most
neauuiui gin in u.e m im,
Masquerade.
In "The Masqueraders," in which
Miss Dawn has been starred by the
Famous Players Film Company, the
barmaid, marries a baronet wno
proves to be a despicable character,
and eventually finds the happiness
which is her due In the man who has
loved her since she was a small child.
Dulcie is the supreme test of Miss
Dawn's ability as an actress. Hith-
ert0 she has won her audiences by
was In the city Saturday, and
I in talking with Manager Bergner
happened to mention "The Coward,"
a picture which had Impressed him as
being really great, and asked Mr.
Bergner if he had billed It. Oddly
enough, "The Coward" Is one of the
two Triangle features billed for Wed
nesday and Thursday nights of this
story and was produced by Thomas
Ince, one of the three greatest di
rectors In the motion picture world.
The battle scenes are said to be sim
ply stupendous.
The scenes of "The Coward"s are
laid in the Valley of Virginia In 1861.
The story Is that of a prideful father,
a type like Corlolanus or Sparticus,
and a weak, timid son of the Hamlet
like type. Needless to say,,, Mr. Kee-
nan appearg in the role of the arro-
gant and domineering father, the
wonderfully sincere young actor,
Charles Ray, as the son, Gertrude
Claire as the mother and Margaret
Gibson as the boy's sweetheart. Oth
er characters Include the Confeder
ate general, played by Charles K.
French, and a couple of old negro
servants.
Locomotives and cars are coming
to Oregon for logging roads.
the prespnt trend of scientific
thought. Leading thinkers, not only
in the United ;UaUb but all over the
civilized wrM, are telling us that
bouses; the purity of its drinking wa-
ter; the cleanliness and care demand-
ed of its milk producers; tho civic
regulations over refuse removal; the
fly nuisance, paving and drainage,
the provision of fresh air and recrea
tion and the general oversight it
exercises over its sanitary conditions.
This week should bo earnestly de-
voted to careful
, improvement of
investigation and
every condition
: which affects our babies.
Health Barrier
To Candidacy
"I am very sorry," caid E. V. Car
ter of Ashland Thursday night, "but
.my health will not permit my run
ning for the state legislature on the
republican ticket, much as I should
enjoy it. I served this county once
and I Bhould like to serve it again,
without that Old Man of the Sea, the
Ashland normal, around my neck.
Also I would enjoy making the race
with a man like C. M. Thomas of Tab
ent. I am inclined to think we could
together accomplish something for
southern Oregon. But my health will
simply not permit my making the
race. I am sure I could not stand
the strain. TMs is a matter which
no one rvy Jtclde but myself, for 1
a'Tn-can know what my physical
condition is.
"I am grateful for the many friend
ly assurances of support and only
wish I might go to Salem and do
what lies ia my power to advance the
interests of southern Oregon, show
my affection for the people and my
home heing of some real service
to them.': But It's impossible. To
make the race wou'd be neither just
to myeelf nor my constituents."
Medford Sun.
Fire Damages
Gillette House
Fire starting from a defective fine
did several hundred dollars' worth
of damage to a house on High street
owned by George Gillttte and occu
pied by H. H. Millican and family,
this morning. The fire broke out In
an upstairs room and burned a hole
through the roof. The fire company
arrived on the scene In a couple of
minutes after the fire was discov
ered, and the fire was extinguished,
but not until damage which will
amount to about $500 was done to
the house and furnishings.
The house was rented furnished
and was Insured. The insurance will
cover the loss. A number of person
al belongings of tbe MUHeans were
destroyed.
Another Fire
This Afternoon
As the Tidings is going to press
the fire department is fighting an
other fire starting from a defective
flue in the house on C street between
Sixth and Seventh streets occupied
by B. R. Stevens. The fire Is of a
similar nature with several others
which have occurred recently and Is
burning in the garret.
County Treasurer's Eighty-third Cull
for Redemption of County
Warrants.
State of Oregon, County of Jackson,
Treasury Department, Jackson
ville, Oregon, March 4, 1916.
Notice is hereby given that there
are fundi on hand for the redemp
tion of all county warrants which
were protested before October 11,
1911.
Also for the following, which were
protestedon October 11, 1911, towlt:
Nos. 11856, 11917, 11999, 12097,
12246, 111298, 12311, 2313, 12314,
12458, 11886, 12419, 12390, 11902,
12088 and 12312.
Interest ceases on the warrants
above called on this, the 4th day of
March, 19.16.
FRED L. COLVIO,
Treasurer of Jackson County, Ore.
sides the $ 1 . r 0 paid by the county!
and state. Tho additional bounty will
bo continued for another month. In
tho Ely and Fort Klamath section the
ranchers have combined to offer an
additional $3, making a total of
$11.50. Prevalence of rabies through
out eastern Oregon has made the
campaign Imperative.
Good Roads Worker .
Visits Ashlasd
George E. Boos, former secretary
of the Medford Commercial Club and
now secretary of the Tri-States Good
itoads Association, was a visitor la
the city the last of the week, and a
very pleased visitor to Lithia park,
which has undergone great changes
since his last visit to Ashland. Mr.
Boos Is of course most vitally inter
ested in the auto camp here, which
he says is known to the greater part
of the motorists of the coast, and
will lie visited by thousands during
the coining summer.
Mr. Boos is one of a number of
public-spirited men of the coast who
have allied themselves with and are
devoting their energies to the good
roads work.
The Tii-State Good Roads Associa-
i tlon has concentrated Interest by
bringing the good roads sentiment In
the three states together. It has a
large membership, recognized as a
strong ally for better roads through
out the Union and particularly the
three coast states.
The officers of the association,
among whom are numbered the gov
ernors of California, Oregon and
Washington, receive no pay for their
services. All of the money paid Into
the association goes toward better
roads. Life membership is $10; sus
taining membership, $5 annually;
contributing temporary membership,
II.
Two Thousand
Rose Slips Left
University of Oregon, Eugene. Feb
29. Two thousand choice Fran Karl
DniBchki rose slips are still available
at the State University for free dis
tribution to high schools, and pack
ages of from 15 to 25 will be sent
upon application to the school of ex
tension. Three thousand slips have
been given away since January 1.
One hundred went to the state peni
tentiary, where there Is no appropria1
tlon for shrubs or plants and where
more attractive grounds are desired.
Most of the remainder have gone to
schools, dozens in number, located
all over Oregon.
Mrs. John Dill Wins
Prize for Slogan
Mrs. John Dill of ABhland Is proud
ly showing friends a hundred dollar
check which she received for submit
ting the best slogan In the contest
given by The Orchard and Farm,
Luther Burbank's official organ,
published by the Country Life of
America, In San Francisco. Winning
this contest speaks highly for Mrs.
Dill's originality and ability along
this line, as there were several hun
dred contestants. Orchard and Farm
has a circulation which covers most
of the fruit-producing states In the
west. Mrs. Dill's slogan was "Prog
ress and Profit for Pacific Produc
ers."
Whose Daughters
Feed the Beast
"Smashing the Vice Trust," a
great motion picture depicting the
fight against vice in New York city
and showing Governor Whitman of
New York In his great fight on vice,
will be shown at the Lyric Theatre
on Tuesday evening, March 7, only.
The picture Is a vivid portrayal of
the conditions which exist In certain
parts of the big cities and carries a
message and a lesson for all. Dr.
Anna Howard Shaw says of the pic
"A ereater lesson than my
own mother could have taught me."
Admission will be 10 and id cents.
Mutt and Jeff
In College Comedy
Ci"yiug a company of firty-four
people, a carload of scenery, and
bringing an entirely new perform
ance with scenic effects, musical
numbers, choruses and the entire
play all different. Mutt and Jeff come
to the Vining Theatre on Monday,
March 13. This is a screamingly
funny comic opera. A road show
not a moving picture.
The public demand for a new Mutt
and Jeff has been more than realized.
Gus Hill's latest version of Bud Fish
er's ininiltahlo chaarters, entitled
Mutt and Jeff in College, is the most
conspicuous innovation of recent
years. The title alone suggests end
less comedy situations which have
been taken advantage of to fullest
capacity. Not alone is tho story
new, but music, dances, etc., are also
new and original as well. One of the
most decided hits of the performance
is the musical number with dancing
accompanyment, "When Charlie
Chaplin Marries Elaine," In which,
all of the popu'ar serial film plays
are represented by their principal
characters, Including Charlie Chap
lin, Elaine, The Goddess, Pauline,
The Diamond from the Sky, etc. This
number calls (or repeated encores at
every performance. College com
mencement day In the Auditorium ia
without doubt the most hilariously
funny scene ever presented on any
Btage. A solid hour of constant
laughter; not laughter, but screams
of merriment; a perfect tornado of
Indescribably ludicrous comedy that
is simply Irresistible. In fact, the
show, may be termed In theatrical
parlance, a riot. This is the fifth
and best edition of Mutt and Jeff,
which will lindobutedly live for many
years to come.
Yreka Highway
Open in Six Weeks
Yreka News: T. A. Redford, di
vision highway engineer, H. S. Com
lcy, assistant division engineer, and
W. S. Lowden, resident engineer,
were in Yreka the latter part of the
week on a trip of Inspection over the
state highway from this point to
Hornbrook with a view to accepting
the road from the contractor, E. T.
Johnson.
Engineer Bedford has put in the
necessary requisition to the highway
commission for money for building
the approaches to the bridges in this
section of the highway, and hopes to
have the approaches completed in six
weeks. Two maintenance men are
empl'oyed on tho road between Yreka
and Hornbrook, and another is kept
busy on the section north of Horn1
brook. W. T. Grieve
For Assessor
W. T. Grieve was In the city today
looking after business connected
with tho assessor's office. Incident
ally he left his announcement as a
candidate on tbe republican ticket
for sheriff.
Mr. Grieve Is probably more wide
ly known than any other candidate
for a county office. He has been
Identified with public life in Jackson
county for a number of years and as
county assessor haB systematized the
office so that out of chaos efficient
assesnients have resulted.
About April 1 Mr. Grieve will be
In Ashland most of the time until
tho assessment rolls have been made
up. He Is going to make tho Ash'and
assessment personally this year.
Over a Foot of
Snow at Eugene v
Ashland woke up Suaday morning
to find a scant covering of snow on
the ground. About an Inch fe'l early
Sunday morning but melted soon
after the sun came p.
A heavy snow storm Impaired light
and communication facilities a'l over
northern Oregon Suiday. Over a
foot of snow fell at Eugene, the city
was put in darkness and several roofs
collapsed under tbe weight of the
snow. I'ortiana naa a coupie or
Inches only, the worst of the storm
centering In the Willamette val'ey.
A $7,500 cannery Is planned for
Coos Bay.
