BEAD THE GREAT WESTERN NOVEL, "THE RANCH AT THE WOLVERINE,"—TODAY—PAGE 4
approved the idea of the port
*• controlling; the switching rate*,
and to prevent discrimination hy the
railroads Now give the j>ort the
mean* of effecting thi« Let the port
have a belt line of its own. Head
the port commission announcement
on page 5. Head the editorial on
page 10.
3.000 IGNORE
RAIN TO HEAR
GILL FLAYED
WINDUP CAMPAIGN MEETINGS BILLED FOR TONIGHT
GRIFFITHS— Prlnc«M thutrt, Ballard; Ward's hall, Georgetown,
to b« addressed by Ola Hanson and H. W. Msyers; Waat
Blda hall, Waat Seattle, to ba addreaaad by Thotnaa P. Hor
ner and J. W. Bryan.
I GlLL—Oraamland rink.
E. J. BPOWN—Princess theatre. Ballard, at which Otto A. Caaa
e I also will speak.
YVsplte the rmln, over S.OOO attended the meeting at ITeamland
rink Sunday nlsht and heard speech.-. by Ole tlanron and It K J.
Brown, candidate for the council. Thomas F. Murphlne »a« chairman
Brawn attacked the official record of Councilman Fiugerald. whom
he had challenged to debate.
Monday night Brown will apeak at Ballard, at the Princeaa theatre
Fitsgerald aay» he will be there to meet him
In hla apeech In behalf of Austin E Griffiths. Hanson declared that
OlH'a election will mean that Seattle puta the stamp of approval upon
th* Tile language and the lies which the mayor has heaped upon the
head of a kind, gentle woman, who happened to be the wife of his op-
I onent.
He contended that character waa the biggest Issue In tha election.
He said'
SCOPES GILL FOP INFAMOUS ATTACK ON WOMAN
"Love Is the foundation of the family, and the family la the comer
stone of civilisation Without love, without family, society would be
worse than an association of beasts.
**Human life Is sacred I»ve l» sacred.
"Around the family life, the American people have erected a wall.
: Hutit of decency and veneration and reepect
•"Our wires n»««t not bs subjected to Insult. Our mothers must be
safß from scandal, or slander, or iklWiile
"OIH, jonr mayor and mine, tore down that wall Gill said 1 ni
nths married his wife for money THINK OF THE INFAMY OF IN
SINUATING HE MARRIEP THAT GENTLE. KIND WOMAN A*, A
MONEY BARGAIN: THAT FOR 2S YEARS HE HAS UVED WITH
HER BECAUSE OF MONEY; THAT CHILDREN WERE BO*** J®
THEM BECAI'SE OF MONEY THAT GRIFFITHS HAS BBEN UV
INO OFF THE EARNINGS OF HIS WIFE.
"Do yon wonder that Gill, foul-mootbed, said 'Griffiths dragged
hi* #»fe to th# level of a etreet walker to gain his ambition'?
CONSCIENCE MUST BE VOTERS' GUIOE
"With putrid, lying words. Ml Oitl sought to poison the mind of
thla whole state and to destroy that moat beautiful thin* la all life,
the happy. truatful marriage relation.
'With unscrupulous, cowardly words he attacked the mother In thla
home, a mother who had been true, and Rood, and kind, and lovlnt.
Then. In the sam» breath, fetid with hla foulneaa. *tth the same
tone up. tainted with Indecencies. he aaka the support of the voters of
Seattle,
Your conscience mu« be your gnlde Tuesday Your conscience
Trust tell yon whom you would prefer with a (treat trust In private life
—011 lor Griffltha — and you must vote acoordlnfly. You must vote for
pe*ce, progress. decency with Griffltha. or trouble, strife, l»w breaking
*nd dlaorder under 011 l and Ijoule l.ang."
Hanson referred to l.ang *a "I»ule. the Uliierer. whoa# cafe hab-
Ita are well known, but upon whom 011 l rellea to keep ua from temp
tation.''
CHARGES NEW UNDERWORLD IS ESTABLISHED
r"A new underworld has been established since 011 l attain broke hl»
hobbles and became the old Ml Gill." said Han*>n "Graft Is again
rampant, and white slavera are running around free, unmolested, tak
the earning* from fallen women, because the police, under I*an«.
at . falling to cooperate with the I'nlted States dlstrlcj attorney or the
eotißt* prosecuting attorney.
' Are you (food men and women of Seattle—yea. and you bad men
>i:4>om«n willing to put the stamp of approval on vile language arid
> llainoua Ilea? I make thla appeal to men and women of every walk In
!«•— to those who have fallen to the lowest depths aa well aa to thoae
who claim respectability.
' Even in the underworld, women who sell their bodies will reaent
attack upon their roothera and father*
"You may assail them and they will be patient Rut EVEN TMKY
reaped and honor and have a tender regard for the sacredness of the
ties that hold fathers and mothers In marriage. But HI GUI has no
such respect for another s home ....
You mothers and fathers, you children of mother* and father*, must ]
either tell Hiram C. Gill that hi- vile attacks and putrid lies meet your
(■ptiroval or not Tuesday I* the day.
SHOWS TAXES UNDER GILL ARE HIGHER THAN EVER
Brown attacked Mayor Gills ta* record, showed that the taies nn
ler Gill are higher than ever, that there has never been a reduction |
- SHE CLAIMS TO BE VICTIM OF
FAKE MARRIAGE IN SEATTLE
OAKLAND, March 6 -Attended
by Rev. Alexander Allen of St
Paol* Episcopal church and Mr*
TRADING STAMP
TAX UW UPHELD
WASHINGTON. March fi I'p
boidtng Washington an<l Florida
laws aimed at trading stamp and
"free coupon*" com pan lei, the 11.
S supreme court today handed
down a decision practically main
taining state's right* to stop use of
such stamps and coupons by pro
hibitory' legislation.
The Washington law wan Intro
duced by Rep Fred W. Hastings
Jn the 1913 legislature. It im
pose* % llcenae of $6,000 a year for
the [IWlleg* of Issuing trading
Stamp* and free coupon* for preml
linn with purchases
The rnlt'd 'Igar Stores fought
the measure and < arried it to the
court*.
VESSEL FOUNDERING OFF TA TOOSH
Immense Crowd Attends Griffiths Rally
(Continued on pags 7)
Allen. Mr*. Heed Von Doh
len I* today farTng trial iri the *ti
perlor court on a charge of pa**lng
flctltlou* check* amounting to $f«f>.
According to the charge, the
woman pa**«d a check drawn on a
I/O* Angele* bank which has been
out of existence for two year*.
Since her arre*t. Mr*. Von Doh
len haa declared that she wa* late
ly the victim of a mock marriage
In Seattle, alleging that .1 H Von
Dob len, whom *he believed for
Nome time to be her hu*band, had
arranged a fake marriage
Von Dohlen replied to thl*
charge I>y raying that he ha* no
Intention of hoaxing the woman
and had at all times recognized the
ceremony a* binding The atten
jtlon of ilev. and Mr* Allen wa* at
tracted to Mr*. Von Ikjhlen'o ca*e,
and *he ha* been their gne*t while
awaiting her trial
While *he wa* 111 at their home
recently, Rev. Allen defied the ef
fort* of a deputy con*table to *erve
her with a court summon* Later
he put up $6,000 In bonds for her,
Mrs. Von Itohlen'* R year-old son
Is a spectator at her trial.
The Seattle Star
THE ONLY PAPER IN SEATTLE THAT DARES TO PRINT THE NEWS I
volume i«.
<JF Man is the issue of tomorrow's
election — the MAN Griffiths as
against the man GilL There's a big
difference. It's a BIG ISSUE. It's
plain. It cannot be beclouded. The
contrast is as between black and
white—as between the mountain and
the ant heap.
The strongest argument against the election of Hi
Gill has come out of his own mouth. He has slan
dered a good woman, before hundreds of people, in
a public speech. Many of liis vulgarities have been
so indecent that no newspaper could publish them.
His own papers, fearing to drive away votes, have had
to suppress his lies and dirty talk. He has proved
he is the same old GilL His supporters know it. Back
of him stand the harum-scarum element of the town
and the predatory interests, eager again to throttle
the city.
<1 Two roads are open tomorrow. The one leads to two years of Gill; two years
of turmoil and municipal waste; two years of police discrimination, or worse, in
enforcement of our laws; two years of city hall wrangling at the taxpayers' ex
pense TWO YEARS OF ALL SEATTLE DOES NOT WANT.
The other road is the high road to constructive municipal management. It
means two years of peace, of sanity, of PROGRESS —- progress toward better
things in Seattle's civic and commercial life. IT MEANS GIVING YOUR CITY
A SQUARE DEAL-AN OPPORTUNITY.
The issue is plain and positive.
C{p It is the MAN Griffiths as against the
man Gill.
ZEPPELIN RAID KILLS 12, INJURES 33
LONDON, March Zepps
11n raiders killed 12 persona
and Injured 33 In an attack on
the northeast coast of Eng
land last night, It was official
ly announced today.
Two raiders dropped bombs
In Yorkshire. Lincolnshire,
Hutland, Huntingdon, Cam
bridge, Norfolk, Essex and
Kent.
The dead are three men, four
women and five children.
It I* believed threw Zeppelin*
took part In the raid.
Forty bombs were dropped,
wrecking houses on two terrsce*,
and damaging several shop*
The raided counties eitend along
the ea«t coast of England from the
southernmost part of the Island al
most to the Scottish border.
They are thlcklv populated snd
fringed with seaside resort*
The raid * extent I* perhaps the
greatcNt lit the war'* history. It
was the }|k|, and brought the to
tal of killed by Oermsn air bom *
up U> 242. while 429 have been m
] ti red.
Several large munition manufac
turing towns sre within the affe t
ed area
The counties of Essex and K'int
adjoin Ixudon.
SI-ATTI I:, WASH., MONDAY, MAKCH 6, 1916. ONE CENT
THE MAM ISSUE!
Roaring high over the towns and
cities In their path, the Zeppelins
showered high explosive and In
cendiary bombs on the homes of
worklngmen. according to the ad-
60FT SNAPS
mlralty account.
One entire block crumpled In a
whirl of fire and smoke as the
missiles descended.
In the ruins of a wrecked dwell
ing, an aged woman, bedridden
seven years, was found uninjured.
She did not receive a scratch,
Hover Over Villages
After crossing Inland from the
east coast, the air fleet moved
eastward.
It was observed to change its
cour*e repeatedly, finully soaring
in ,i huge circle high overhead, evi
dently uncertain of its position
Finally one of the Zeppelins de
tached Itself from the squadron
and hovered over a village, dump-
Ing a veritable hall of explosives
upon the houses until Its supply
was exhausted. Then It rose to a
UN LISTS SO BROTH BR
CAN FINISH SCHOOI
PRINCETON, N. J., March ti.
Wm. West, Princeton senior,
who disappeared and caused a
10 days' search of several
states, has enlisted In the army
so his brother John can finish
college. There was not enough
money for both.
OX !NAIMN A»r>
N FW« NTANVMI %m
great height and vanished, the
glare from burning buildings II
lunilnatlng it against the sky.
NO FOOD SEIZED AT
WESTLAKE MARKET
In an article printed Saturdav
regarding the confiscation by state
food inspectors of a quantity of
cheese and oranges, alleged to
have been unfit for food. The Star
erroneously reported that a part of
this food was owned by the West
lake market. Tills was not the
fact The Westlake market was
concerned In the affair In no way,
and The Star hastens to correct lis
previous report.
RICKS FRANCIS AS
RUSS AMBASSADOR
WASHINGTON, March ti Preal
dent Wilson today nominated
David R. Francis of St. Louis as
ambassador to Russia He will
succeed George T. Marye of San
Francisco, who resigned on ac
count of 111 health.
TAJ^TP
JLtditign JL
LINER STANDS
BY AND GETS
LINE ABOARD
For six hours the steam lumber schooner Thomas Wand,
owned by the William Olson Steamship Co. of San Fran
cisco, has been fighting a losing battle against a 60-mile gale
in the open seas off Tatoosh.
Aboard her are a crew of 19 men and Capt. Curtis.
She left Kagle Harlx>r, across the bay from Seattle, Sun
day, with a cargo of lumber. Two of her three masts were
snapped off and her deck load of lumber washed overboard
in the gale she encountered Sunday night Cape Flat
tery.
She plowed thru the straits and out to sei during the
night Distress signal- sent up during the early hours of the
morning were observed by the S. S. Admiral Dewey. When
daylight broke, the Seattle-San Francisco liner was alongside.
From 6:30 a. m. until nearly noon the Dewey struggled
to get a line aboard the battered hull.
Ilrief meaaage* reached the Se
attle water front nhortly before
noon that a line had been made
f*»t and that the Dewey would
make an effort to tow the achoon
er to aafety.
She la nlowly making her way
hack toward Neah bay. where tugi
are wilting to bring the Wand to
Seattle—lf ahe e*er reaches them.
Wlrelraa operator! at the port
warden's office are trying to get
into direct iommunlcatlon with tbe
schooner It li not yet known
whether or not »ny men were
drowned.
The achooner la of 670 tona reu
l«ter. She waa built In Al>erd«en
In 1906, |» 174 feet long. 38 feet
wide, and hit a depth of 123 feet.
• • •
TERRIFIC STORM
SWEEPING COAST
SAN FRANCISCO, March 6 —
Coast* lie vessels arriving from
the North told of a severe south
lint gale sweeping the sea above
Mendocino county today. Two live*
have been loot and others are im
periled.
l'ractir*ll<r all shipping north of
the Golden Gate In delayed.
WATCHERS AT POLLS
WANTED ON TUESDAY
Watchers at the polla Tues
day are asked to phone In the
reaulti, as soon as possible, to
Main 9400.
The counting of the ballots
begins Immediately after the
polls close at fPo'clock.
Those who will volunteer
service as watchera, communi
cate with Griffiths' headquar.
ters at 362 Empire building or
telephone Elliott 2319.
SENATORS WALK IN
STREET CAR STRIKE
WASHINGTON, March Sen
ators and represrntatives who are
without automobiles walked today.
All street cars are halted by a
strike.
SALMON DAY SOON
Salmon day is Friday.
Col. Hardt. In churn** of the ex
hibits at the Chamber of Com
merce. wants you to know that, es
pecially housewives, for he's col
lerted a large assortment of reci
pes that will make salmon fit a
king's taste In S7 varieties. He
also has some canned salmon to
Klve away to some of those who
want to prepare special recipes.
FAVOR AMENDMENTS
The chart"r revision committee
of the Municipal league reported
Saturday in favor of all tnreo char
ter amendments to he voted on at
the election on Tuesday.
HUBBY'S KISSES TOO
VIOLENT, SHE SAYS
CHICAGO. March fi—Mrs.
Alice Smedes, who filed suit for
divorce, alleging hrr husband
was so affectlonato her ribs
and lips are sore, says "kisses
should be administered like
food or medicine, and not Ilka
alcohol."
* WEATHER FORECAST
Tonight rain or snow; Tues
day generally fair.
BAKER NAMED
SECRET AIRY
OF WAR BY
WILSON
Newton D. Baker
WASHINGTON. March
Newton D. Baker, former may
or of Cleveland, la President
Wilson's chioce for secretary
of war, the White Houae ad
mitted today.
Baker twice declined the
portfolio of secretary of In
terior when President Wllaon
waa picking his cabinet.
Baker, at Cleveland today,
announced he had accepted
Wilson's offer.
llaker always has been known aa
n pacificist. At a recent meeting
of citizens, ho was boosted as tha
man to bring peace in Kurope when
the time is ripe. Asked when h*
hail ceased to be a pacificist and
became an advocate of prepared
ness. Maker said:
"1 am still a member In good
standing of several peace socie
ties."
"Rut you believe in President
Wilson's preparedness ltolicy?" ha
was asked.
"Yes. 1 believe in all his policiea
as far as I know them "
It is understood that Attorney
General Gregory advised the preM
dent that Gen. Hugh Scott could
not be retained as nctlng secretary
longer than Saturday, when his 30-
da.v term expires.
Newton D. Maker retired aa
mayor of Cleveland on .hin. 1. aft
er four years' service in that of
fice. He was a friend and law
partner of Tom 1,. Johnson.
Maker Is a studious, small, sp9e.
tacled man.
Me is noted In his home city as
having no intimate friends, pre
ferring to bury himself in his
study when not engaged on public
business.
His friendship for President Wll
son dated from Maker's fisht In the
den-ocrntlc convention .it Haiti
more when he made the fight
against the unit rule thnt practical
ly Insured Wilson's nomination.
Ilaker led the minority of the
Ohio delegation that favored Wil
son.
Maker was born In Martlnshurß.
W. Vs., Dec. 3, 1871, and was grad
uated from JnhnH Hopkins and
Washington Lee universities.
