TIME
VOL. XIX NO. 301.
UAKHK, VERMONT, MONDAY, MARCH rt, 191(5.
Pit ICE, ONE CENT.
THE BARRE DAI
LY
TWELVE KILLED
BY AIR RAIDERS
OVER ENGLAND
Three Zeppelins Ranged over
. Wide Territory During the
Night Dropped 40 Bombs
and Caused Considerable
Destruction of Property
f
33 PERSONS HURT,
SAY THE OFFICIALS
After Crossing the Coast
Line, the Three Airships
Separated Two Houses
Practically Destroyed and
Others, Including an Alms
house, Were Damaged
FRENCH HOLDING FIRM
IN DOUAUMONT SECTOR
Villi the French center in the,
1 toiniiimoiit sector apparently nt ill
holding III in against tin' desperate
assaults of the crown prince's ar
mies, tint Germans again are turn
ing tlirir attention to tlio flanks of
the French positions around the
stronghold. Intense artillery ac
tivity in t ho Woevre district was
reported in the Paris night bulle
tin, tin' fire, centering upon tlio
region of llaudonioiit ami Frcsnes,
ID miles southeast of Verdun. Mil
itary commentators have laid much
stress irpon the operations in this
sector, holding that the next im
Hrtant drive by tho Hermann
might be exerted there, with th
object of rolling up tho French
right flank.
Verdun itself in now tinder Gor
man artillery tire, but according to
the correspondents little damage
has been done there no far.
PUTS FRIEND
IN WAR OFFICE
Pres. Wilson Appoints New
ton D. Raker, Former
Mayor of Cleveland
H ETHEL CUTTERS SEND
ONE POINT BACK
WHO HAS ACCEPTED
THE PORTFOLIO
Twice Previously Baker Had
Declined a Cabinet
Position
London, March flTwelva persons were
killed and 33 were injured in last night's
Zeppelin raid. Three Zeppelins partici-
pftted in the attack. This information
was given out officially to-day.
' The statement snys: "After crossing
tho coast the airships took various
courses. The area visited included York
shire, Lincolnshire, Rutland, Huntington,
Cambridgeshire, Norfolk, Essex and
Kent. About forty bombs were dropped.
Two terrace houses were practically de
stroyed, one office, one public house cafe
and several shops were partly destroyed
nnd a block almshouse was badly damaged."
GERMANS CAPTURED
NEARLY A THOUSAND
MEN IN THREE DAYS
Official War Office Report Says They
Were Taken North of Verdun and
' East of the Meuse River Sat
urday and Sunday.
Berlin, via London, March 6. The cap
ture of nearly 1,000 French near Verdun
Saturday and .Sunday was announced by
the war office to-day. The prisoners
who were captured east of the Meusc,
comprise 14 officers and 031 men.
NO INFANTRY FIGHT.
French War Office Reports Front Before
Verdun Free from Charges.
," Paris, Mjirch 0. There was no in fan
" try righting north of Verdun last night
the war office announced to-day.
GERMAN CAVALRY
MOVING AT YPRES
Dutch Report That Important Movements
of Troops Have Been Noted Oppo
site British Lines.
London, starch 6. Important move
ments of German troops in Belgium ure
reported in a Central News dispatch
from J he Hague. Jt Is said that infor
ination has reached The Hague from
Miiestricht, Holland, that 40.000 German
cavalrymen of the landsturm are on their
way to the front near pres.
AUSTRIA FIGHTING
PIGMY REPUBLIC
Considers Itself at War with San Marino
Because of Serious Breach of
Neutrality.
Rome, via Paris, March 6. Austria
considers herself at war with the repub
lic of San Marino, according to a mes
sage conveyed by American Ambassador
Pentield at Vienna to the regents of- the
smallest state in the world, who had ap
plied through him to have the citizens
interned in Austria released. Austria jus
i titled her refusal with the statement that
an Marino had coinnx'tted
breach of neutrality.
a serious
The republic of San Marino in north
ern Italy is but 22 square miles in area
and has a population of 0,500. The avail
able armed force of the country, which
includes all citizens between the age of
1(5 and GO years able to bejir arm, is
1.20l men. Tho state lias been in exist
ence for I.Onoo years. The nature of the
breach of neutrality charged by Austria
is not recorded.
Washington, J). C, March tl. Newton
D, liuker, a former mayor of Cleveland,
lias been selected by lVesident Wilson
for secretary of war. Mr. Baker has ac
cepted anil is now arranging his affairs
In I Icveland, preparatory to coming to
Washington to take up his duties. The
selection of Haker is understood to have
been discussed by President Wilson and
Colonel E. M. House this morning.
When the president was making up his
cabinet in 1913 he offered a place as sec
retary of the interior to Baker twice, but
the hitter was then mayor of Cleveland
and declined for that reason. President
Wilson and Baker Nive been close friends
for some time. At the White House to
day there was neither confirmation nor
denial oflicially that Bnker would get
the place.
Newton Baker was liorn in Martins-
son of Dr. X. D. and Mary A. Baker. He
was educated at Johns Hopkins univers
ity and the low department of Washing
ton & Lee university. 8inee 1804 he has
been a lawyer, practicing first in Mar
tinslmrg and then in Cleveland. The
year after being admitted to the bar he
was private secretary to Postmaster Gen
eral William L. Wilson. In Cleveland hi
has been assistant director of law, direc
tor of law, city solicitor and mayor. He
is a Democrat.
RAIDER MOEWE
SAFELY ARRIVES
N IN HOME PORT
Official Announcement By German Naval
Staff Telia of the Famous Ship's
Return and Recounts Her
Trluniohs.
Beriin, via London, March 0. Official
unnounceuient was made by the naval
general staff yesterday that the German
commerce ranlor Moewe returned to a
German port. She had on board 1H9 pris
oners and 1,000,000 marks in gold bars.
The statement follows:
"The naval general staff states that
II. M. S. Moewe, Commander Captain
Burgrave, Count Yon Dohna-Sehlodien,
flu. a BiiiwumLtiil riiifeiA luatim. Bpmrttl
months arrived io-.lav at some home I hwU W,,t Virginia. Dee. 3. 1871, the
port with four British officers, 20 British
marines and sailors, 100 ineu of crews
and enemy steamers, among them 103 In
dians, as prisoners, and 1,000,000 marks
in gold bars.
"The vessel captured the following ene
my steamers, the greater part of which
were sunk and a small part of which
were sent as prizes to neutral ports:
"The British steamers Corbridge, 3,087
tons; Author, 3,40(1 tons; Trader, 3,008
tons; Ariadne, 3.035 tons; Dromonby, 3,-
6:27 ton Farringfurd, 3,140 tons; thin
MacTavish, 5,810 tons; Appam, i,iH
tons; West burn, 3,300 ttms; Horace, 3,-
33.) tons; Flamenco 4,629 tons; Saxon
Prince, 3,741 tons.
"The British sailing vessel Kdinburgh,
1.473 tons.
"The French steamer, Maroni, 2,109
tons.
"At Bcveral points on the enemy coast
the Moewe also laid out mines to which,
among others the battleship King Ed
ward VII fell victim."
The Moowe's capture of two of the
15 vessels listed by the German admir
alty has not been reported previously.
They are the Saxon Prince and the Mar
oni, both of which were engaged in the
trans-Atlantic service.
The Saxon Prince was -owned by the
Prince line of Newcastle, Eng. She was
last reported as sailing from Norfolk
February 12, fop Manchester.
The Maroni sailed on February 19 from
Bordeaux for New York. She was owned
by the Campagnie Generale Trans-At-
lantique of Havre.
The Moewe, previously made famous
by her exploits, has performed one of
the most spectacular feats of the war
on the seas by reaching a home port in
safety. Tho great German naval port of
YilheImshaven in on the North sea,
which is patrolled with ceaseless vigil
ance by British warships. It is through
these waters, which have been blocked
off in districts for patrol by the different
British units that the Moewe must have
threaded her way to home and safety.
There is a Feeling in the Village That
Differences in Granite Industry
Will Be Settled Soon.
Bethel, March tl. There was a large
ly attended meeting of Bethel branch, G.
( . I. A., at tin' Httxcnm theatre last Sat
unlay. The men accepted the proposal.)
of their committee with one exception,
and further actum was deterred. I here
is a general feeling that an agreement
will be reached within a few days at the
longest.
PUT BLAME ON MICE
DIRECT APPEAL
BY AVILSON
President Asked Republicans in House
Not to Make a Party Issue on
Armed Ship Resolution.
Washington, D. C, March 6. President
Wilson appealed directly to Representa
tives Bonnet and J.rnroot, Republican
members of the House rules committee,
to-day to consider the armed ship issue
without partisan bias and assist in get
ting a vote on tho resolution warning
Americans off armed ships, fur an hour
he discussed the foreign situation with
the two Republican members and told
them of the necessity of demonstrating
that tho reports abroad that Congress
was not with him are erroneous.
After the conference Representative
Lenroot said the Republicans had no in
tention of bringing party considerations
into the issue. Both he and Representa
tive Rennet refused to discuss the tie
tails of the conference as they left the
White House to attend a meeting of the
rules committee.
For $600 Fire in Dr. Joe W. Jackson'J
Residence Early To-day.
A fire having its origin in a clothe
press at the residence of Dr. Joe W.
Jackson, 29 South Main street, caused
a property loss approximating $000 eurly
to-day. Regular from the tire station
were summoned to the Jackson bouse in
the auto truck at 1:15 o'clock, or ti very
few minutes after members of the fam
ily had been "awakened by smoke. Until
nearly 3 o'clock the. firemen worked to
subdue the (lames, which communicated
from the clothes press to the doctor's
rear cilice. Although numerous articles
of value were destroyed, the issue of t lie
outbreak is considered fortunate, inas-
inuch as office fixtures, including an
X-ray machine were not greatly dam-
ged. The loss is covered by insurance in
the Pape company.
Mice and matches are held to strict
account for tho outbreak. Beyond a
doubt the fire started in the clothes clos
et, where Dr. Jackson kept his clothe,
a few books, medicine cases in disuse and
papers. Three suits of clothes, an over
coat and a raincoat were destroyed in
the closet, along with a violin, a leather
hand bag, and the medicine casern. A
small collection of canes, one of them a
silver-mounted affair which was the prop-
erty of Dr. Jackson's grandfather, can
bo restored. The physician's collection
of rare coins did not fare so well. Many
of the coins were suspended on the wall
in frames. When the glass fronts were
cracked and the backgrounds burned the
coins fell and lost themselves in the
debris on the floor. A medicine case built
into the wall alongside the closet had
its contents ruined and woodwork in the
rear ollice was badly scorched in places.
Perhaps the X-ray machine may have to
l repaired in part, but it is far from
being a total loss.
The odor of smoke awakened Dr. and
Mrs. Jackson, who were sleeping up
stairs, soon after 1 o clock. I he dot-tor
rushed to the barn, fearing that the
fire might have broken out there. Mrs.
Jackson traced the lire to the clothes
press and when she opened the door.
flames came through and much smoke
filled the room. W hen the firemen ar
rived the density of the smoke rendered
their work extremely hazardous, but a
hose line of chemical soon had a telling
effect. A number of people on South
Slain street were aroused by the noise in
cident to the outbreak. f
BOTH PROFESS
CONFIDENCE
IN BALLOTING
Leaders of Movement in Be
half of the State-Wide
Prohibition Law Assert
That the Referendum Vote
To-morrow Will Be Favor
able to Their Side
LOCAL OPTION LEAGUE
CLAIMS 5,000 LEAD
There Is Less Confidence in
the Result of the Referen
dum on the Primary Law,
Also to Be Voted for in-the
Annual Town Meeting
Barre Election
The acceptance of the state-wide pro
hibition law, to go into effect May 1,
1916, or the suspension of its operation campaigning- is
till May 1, 1927, is the great issue to be
decided in the town meetings to be held
throughout Vermont to-morrow after a
campaign which has been perhaps the
most sweeping since the local option liq
uor law was accepted 13 years ago.
ThoBe who are in charge of the two cam
paigns profess confidence in the result of time of it at the polls.
Hie votinir Secretary Hsvmond Trainor Ward polling places are as follows:
P' J 1 t.,,, 1. tt-nt ..hnnl. ..-o-.I
,.t 4 T .1 r..4.- 1 ".... vouin, r...., o. ..uv,,, ...
o, tuC .nmu, vTti.;.. l""' SIw,TriW school: warn1 3. Summer street
dieting the defeat of the prohibition school; ward 4. Brook street school;
measure by 5,000 or more majority, ward 5, Wootlchuck Knoll school; ward
cldea whether tho system of town ac
counting recommended to all towns shall
ho accepted. Thin section reads: "Will
tho city vote to install a uniform system
of public! accounting, as recommended by
the officials as appointed by tho governor
under the act of 1!U."?" On this preposi
tion It is generally believed tliBt lliirrc
will vote "No" because Bane already
has a good system of public accounting,
from which the proposed system was in
part modeled, and because the change
from the city's present system to a sys
tem suitable to small towns would throw-
a needless expense upon tho city.
An incidental vote will tie taken on the
proposition to grant druggist licenses
contingent on the temporary defeat of
the prohibition law in the referendum
vote.
There are reason enough for believing
that there will bo several sharp contests
at the polls to-morrow. There are 2,002
voters who can exorcise the suffrage this
year, as against 1,00(1 last year. Mayor
alty and aldermanic contests are being
waged already and the outcome in every
instance is shrouded in doubt. Sutuiort-
crs of Robert Gordon, the Njcialist earn
didate for mayor, are putting' in some
good work for their candidate and there
are many who will be surprised if ho is
not elected. Mayor r. L. Langlcy is a
candidate for re-election and tho vote is
expected to be very clone, which ever
way itfgoes. Down in the fourth ward
there are two candidates, Aldvrman Ed
win Keast, who is seeking a second term,
and Clyde 11. Reynolds, the Socialist
nominee. Neither candidate has been
idle and the predict ion is mado that
when the votes are counted both candi
dates will bo conscious of the fact that
the fight was closely contested. There
are three candidates in the sixth ward.
Alderman A. K. Bruce, the citizens' cau
cus nominee, Henry Alexander, who filed
papers, and Paul Hedwall, the Socialist
nominee. The contest is conceded to lie
between Mr. Bruce and Mx. Alexander
and the issue of a fortnight of careful
as much in doubt there
as in the tourtli ward. art! n lias a
school eommissionership contest ffh with
W, IT. Eager as the citizens' nominee and
Frank J. Baird as a candidate who filed
papers after the caucus. Ward 2 is the
only other bailiwick where an alderman
is to be elec ted. Alderman .T. A. Healy
is unnpiosed. Elsewhere candidates on
the citizens' ticket will have an easy
FINAL APPEAL
TO THE VOTERS
The Advocates of Prohibi
tion Held Two Ral
lies in Barre
EX-GO V. HANLY DRT
SMALL AUPTA
iCE
At Second Rv Local Men
Gave Arg.ents in Fa
vor of Proposed Law
Supt. C. H. Smith of the Vermont Anti
Saloon league was not at his office in
Burlington this noon, but leaders of
other forces back of the "Perry" prohi
bition measure were emphatic in the
statement of their belief that the new
law would go into effect this year.
Xot so much interest hae been taken
in the referendum on the acceptance of
the direct primary law; nor are those
most zealous for or against it r"r out-
6, city hall (court room). The polls are
to open at 0 o'clock in the morning and
the boxes will be turned at 3 o'clock in
the afternoon.
Time for Closing the Polls,
The question has been raised as to
what time the polls close on the two
state refereniluin-s in to-morrow's voting.
Each act states: "A special ballot box
shall be provided for the reception of
the ballots provided for in this act, which
YOUNG MAN SERIOUSLY HURT.
SHOT HIMSELF ABOVE HEART.
Fred Howard, Bridport Farmer, in Crit-
i ical Condition.
Bridport, March 6. Fred Howard,
aged 25 years, shot himself ju-st above
the heart yesterday with a 32-calibre re
volver and is in a serious condition. Con
tinued ill health is thought to have
prompted his act.
When Mrs. Howard went to call her
husband to breakfast about 8 o'clock she
heard a shot and, mailing upstairs, found
hiin on the floor. From a neighbor's,
Dr. E. G. Blaisdell of this town nnd Dr.
W. J. White of Middlcburv were sum
moned, and succeeded in extracting the
ball, which entered the body just above
the heart.
Mr. Howard is a farmer. He has no
children.
DYNAMITERS CAUGHT
NEAR BOSTON CHURCH
HOTEL MUST PAY
FOR MONEY LOST
IN GAMBLING
It is Suspected that Trio Planned to Rob
Safe in Basement of the Edifice
One of Them Resembles Jean
Crones.
PRIEST SHOT IN CHURCH.
Toliah Woman Kills Pastor as He Sits
Near Altar at St. PauL
St. Paul, Minn., March Rev. Henry
. .laiceki, pastor of M. l-asimirs I'olisti
-I onian t atnouc church at St. I aul. was
t-bot and killed at the church by a wom
an lat niglit. in the prewnce of several
members of his congregation. The wom
an entered the church liortly
th service was t tx-gin, and
m-vera I Catholic item were kneeling at 'served at a tluin-h liiiet.
Boston, March 6. Three men, aiuied
ith revolvers and carrying dynamite.
percussion caps, fuses and bla-tmg pow
der, were arrested by a squad of police
on a shed roof adjoining St. Mary's Cath
olic church in the north end district, aft
er a sharp struggle yesterday. 1 hey re
fused to tell what their purjiose was or
why they were hiding near the church.
After the police bad questioned them
unsuccessfully, they were held in $20.(N1
each on charges of breaking and enter
ing, having burglar tools in their pos
session, and assault cion an officer, loiter
they were identified through records in
the Rogues' Gallery as John Costa of
Cleveland. O., and John !" Xatli and
Rosario Conti of Philadelphia.
P.dii-e inspector were much interested
in the rermldaner tieteen Cit and
before Jean Cronss, who is wanted in big
while on a charpe of putting txi.n in f-oI
A compare-
Robert H. Kemp Won Verdict of $6,110
in Suit Against Hotel Essex in Bos
ton He Claimed to Have
Lost By Fake Betting on
Horse Races.
Boston, Afarch 6. A jury in superior
court to-day returned a verdict of 0,110
against the proprietors of the Hotel Es
sex in this city for money which Robert
11. Kemp of Brockton claimed to have
lost by betting on fake horse races at
the hotel in November, 1013, and inter
est. Kemp alleged that he was persuad
ed by a gang of ewindlers who had set
up a pool room in the. hotel to bet on
horse races.
Kemp brought suit against the hotel
corjHration under a statute which makes
property holders liable for money lost in
lietting on their premises if it is provcul
that they had know-ledge of what was
taking place. The hotel management
contended that it had no knowledge of
any gambling on the premises.
TALK OF THE TOWN
im aitar. near wrorn rather .lajevio mi. , sn ' reci.ru earrieii out the ir.--.i-Alvancing
rapidly down the renter aisle, Mance in many ways with the ex, t:.n
hs tired five shots, two taking etTwt and of a very si ght difference in the mcaure
rcmlnng in instant death. Threats of , utewU f the jaw.
i.l'uce were made and the woman wasj Tl police expr-rd fie opinion that
linrri-d to a fvli-c Mti"n. Undfrstaad- !the m-n intended to r b the safe in tl-
in nothing twit P.lih. she eii!d rKt be j tnwm.nl of t'e ihi.i.h They rarriei
,!wtin,l until as int-rprrfer had lp Ifn-rijh -Tpliv.. tlie .ffi-r said, t
(-Uaisel l-icm up the ej.iiie.
At the office of the city clerk Saturday
afternoon Hikki Rainanen and Mrs. Aimi
Maisie, both of (iraniteville. were mar
ried by Justice of the Peace James
Mackay. The couple were unattended
and after the ceremony they returned to
their home in (iraqiteville. where Mr.
Kainanen is employed as a quarry work
er.
Coach Charles Hoernle of (.oihlard sem
inary is in receipt of a letter from Ijiw
ton Witt, the former seminary liae lx.it
star, who has signed with Connie Muck's
Philadelphia Athletics. Witt as in t lie
Quaker city on the point of leaving for
the spring training camp when he dated
the letter. The Athletics are to train
at Jacksonville, K!a., where Witt ex
pects to get his fir-t ta-te of life in big
leacne company.
Irivate lleorge Thomson of the Cana
dian (irenadicrstJuards .overseas Initiation
is visiting at the hin of his father. Wil
bam Thomson of .11 Karwell street for s
few days. Private Thomson will muse
his farewell to his relatives here at the j
end of the week as the battalion is t j
Irate Montreal for the rithtmj: rone Sun
Romeo Scampini Was Drawn into Ma
chine by Wire Rope.
Romeo Scampini, aged 16, son of Mr
and Mrs. Angelo Scampini of Burlin
street, sustained very serious injuries in
an accident at the granite manufacturing
lant of C'omolli 4 Co. in Bianchi place
this morning, when his foot became
caught in a wire rope attached to the
derrick drum in the yard. Before lie
could be released, his right leg was frac
tured above the thigh, and it is feared
that a fracture occurred in the right arm
above the elbow. Dr. J, A. Wark was
summoned and the young man was hur
ried to the City hospital in the Perry A
Xoonan ambulance. At the hospital,
Scampini was placed on the operating
table at once. Dr. Wark being assisted
in the operation by Drs. J. W. Jackson
and W. 1C. Lazell.
This afteroon it was too early to de
termine just what the issue of the acci
dent may .be. Bruises and lacerations
were caused, but it is thought that no
permanent results of an untoward nature
will fonow"-nnlees it develops that there
are internal injuries. Immediately after
the accident, work at the ComoIIi plant
was abandoned, and the men were told
not to return until to-morrow.
Voung Scampini had an escape from
much graver injury that is regarded as
miraculous. He was employed as a der
riekman, and it was when he was guid
ing the movements of the big boom that
his foot became caught in a piece of wire
roping. The movement of the cable
drew him onto the derrick drum, and
there he was held fast for a fraction
of a moment. Armando Comolli, son of
the senior member of the copartnership.
was in the yard at the time, and it was
n part due to his quick wit that the
young man s me was saved. Neeing
Scampini a predicament, he promptly or
dered the machinery stopped and rushed
to the young fellow's assistance. Scam
pini was carried into the office, where
first ministrations were brought by Dr.
Wark. The derrickman bled profusely
and at the hospital attaches found it im
possible to remove his clothing before
the introduction of anesthesia.
spoken in their professions of confidence f,,al,be I,ene 8 the ,!our the n,,.pti"K
in the outcome as in the case of the pro
hibition law. The local option on the
acceptance or rejection of a uniform sys
tem of town accounting has developed
but mild interest.
But the three issues together with the
local election contests, are expected to
bring out a vote which will be very large,
if not a record-breaker for the state as
a whole.
Local Option Prediction.
Secretary Trainor of the Vermont Lo
is called, and shall remain open until the
close of the meeting not earlier than 3
o'clock in the afternoon."
This means that the polls will close at
3 p. m. in Barre to-morrow. .
A STATEMENT TO THE PUBLIC.
The Columns of The Times Have Been
Open to Criticism of Administration.
To the public: An anonymous circular
tief rihiitnit atmtif ftio pitv arniea thnt.
cal Option league issued the following Lhe mayor pilblishn9 in Tlle Time9 w,iat
statement from his office at Wlute River r,i &a,itn him uml far wlint: ilmvt. nlprmt
Junction:
A canvass made of the situation in v ,,.:., , -t, Lra;rs, nr
Vermont on me question i oi state-wicie fflt.ia8i couched in decent language, was
iHMiiitMium iovai ui'Liou, iiiuicniffl
nv.it rotnaml mitt injitmn riv fma Tinner
il,ai 1 .1 ...:ll i.- I ' i ' ,
tun,, t..r ,..r-..i .o,, " " Because the present mayor happens to le
HAD LONG. BEEN FAILING.
Mrs. Eliza A. Stoughton Died at Home of
Her Daughter.
Mrs. Kliza A. Stonghton passed away
at the home of her daughter, Mrs. H.
Hurton Tcnney. .VI Washington street.
this morning at 7:40 o'clock. Mr-.
Stonghton had lieen in failing health for
some time, although her ls-t illtless dated
from Thursday of last week. Besidi-s the
daughter with whom she resided, she
Icatcs thrie daughters. Mr. ;orge Ha'.l
of Brooktield. Mrs. tieorge Oaks of Hins
dale. X. H. and Mrs. I H. Rumrill of
Handolph. Surviving alvi are a sitcr,
Mrs. Krank Stxkney of Campton. X. H..
and a brother, Henry Kat--n of Roxhury,
Ms.
The dt-ceaoed was lr in Wondstnek.
Klira Kafon.
retained by a large majority. The west
side of the state is overwhelmingly
against prohibition. Reports received
from Windham, Windsor, Orange, Wash
ington and Essex counties, indicate that
in these the majority in favor of local
option will lie large. Reports received
from a large number of town in the
other counties on the east side, indicate
that the.se counties also will be carried
for local option. The paid agitators im
ported from outside of the state bv the
score, have failed to convince sober-mind
ed Vermonters that prohibition to-day
would not be the same failure it was for
50 years before the passage of the pres
ent local option law. The people seem
glad to get an opportunity to express
their approval of local option as a tem
perance measure.
"Our campaign has been purely one of
education and seems to have accom
plished the object desired with the very
effective assistance w;e have received
from a majority of the state press. All
Vermonters should feel gratified that the
fight between local option and prohibi
tion forces has been conducted in a clean,
open manner. I loth sides seem to have
been actuated by the honest purpose
the publisher of The Times makes no
difference. Ho is a public official and any
citizen who does not approve his course
or actions as mayor can at any time ex
press his disapproval through the col
umns of this paper. Moreover, some
weeks ago, I personally offered the use
of the columns of The Times to persons
who had been mentioned for the olfiec of
mayor. Frank E. Langlcy,
The local forces who have been un
usually active in endeavoring to turn
Barre s vote in favor of state-wide pro
hibition to-morrow dosed their speaking
campaign with rallies at the opera house
Saturday and Sunday evenings, ex-Cov.
Frank J. Hanly of Indiana speaking on
the former evening and a program of
short addresses by Barre men being car
ried out last evening.
Nothing like the audience that might
be expected to turn in for an evening to
hoar an ex-governor of Indiana speak on
any issue was present Saturday evening.
Nevertheless there were some over 100
present to hear one of the most interest
ing of the flying squadron's coterie of
ex-executives flay the demon rum and
the rum traffic. Perhaps it is fair enough
to state that Saturday night is not a
favorable time for rallies of any sort,
but there is a possibility that a more
cogent reason accounted for the slim at
tendance. An electorate that has been
glutted with statistics, appeals and
counter-appeals in the campaign for and
against state-wide prohibition might, by
the veriest chance, desire to have a day
or two, or three, to think the matter
over for itself.
Mayhap the temptation to afford for
itself a breathing spell in which the .ar
gumentative diet of the. past three weeks
might lie given an opportunity to settle,
into the digestive tract prompted the
electorate to stay at home. Three weeks
of contentious campaigning, campaigning
by the personal touch method, through
the medium of imported orators and by
copious usage of newspaper and circular
publicity apparently has not left the
voters hungry for more, and so in veriest
truth it is likely that the wish for a
surcease from argumentation may have
been responsible for the paucity of hear
ers at the local option rally Friday night
and again at the prohibition gathering
at the wee It-end.
So, it seems to be a reasonable asser
tion that the voters were weary of
speechmaking when it is recalled that
former Gov. Hanly is an orator of the
first rank, a nerve-and-sinew, out-and-out
advocate of prohibition, than whom
the cause in America has no more effec
tive champion. That a speaker of bis
drawing powers should bo greeted by an
audience that would scarcely tax an ordi
nary schoolroom indicates that the cam- ,
paign for and against the big issue to lie
bout piayed out.
WOMAN DENIED GUILT.
Mrs.
Lucy Colombo Was Arraigned for
Breach of the Peace.
"hat the police dracribe as a hair
pulling fracae on tiranite street Sunday
afternoon resulted in the arrest this
afternoon of Mrs. Lucy Colombo of Fos
ter street. The woman was taken in
custody by Chief Sinclair on a complaint
made to Grand Juror William Wishart.
I'pon her arraignment before Magistrate
H. W. Scott in city court, the respond
ent pleaded not guilty to a breach of the
peace charge and was admitted to bail in
the sum of 100 for her appearance at a
trial to lie held Thursday morning. It
placing before the voters the best argu
ments in support of their detention with
out bitterness or acrimony.
'The Vermont Local Option league
earnestly urges the voters in this state
to come to the polls next Tuesday re
gardless of how they vote, so that the
result will be decisive on this most im
portant question.
I look for a majority of 5.000 or more
iirainst the Perry act."
h alleged hy tne authorities that the Co
lombo woman invaded the premises of
Mrs. Henrietta (iuazzoni on Granite
street, attacked Mrs. Guazzoni and did
not desist until she had wrested from
the head of her alleged victim a handful
of hai Mrs. Guazzoni is ill to-day.
Interest in to-morrow's elections in
liarre may lie said to be divided rather
evenly between local and state issue.
looming up quite as large as any local
contest, is the referendum on the Perry
FUNERAL OF JOHN VERC0E, JR.
Was Held Sunday at the Hedding M. E.
Church.
The remains of John Vercoe. jr.. a for
mer Barre young man, whose death oc
curred in Denver, Col., Feb. Sill, arrived
in the itv Saturday evening and tu-
rohihition act. with proponents of both literal scrvii-es were held in the Hedding
ides the question much in doubt. Rele
gated somewhere in the rear is the im-
hiortani-e attached to the primary refer
endum, although its hearing on the fu
ture conduct of political affairs in Ver
mont cannot be over-estimated. Over-
Methodist church Sunday afternoon at i
oclock. Key. J- r. ewell. pastor, om
tiated at the service and the following
young men acted as Iwarers: Arthur
IMackmore. Philip Vercoe. Xeal Hooker.
Georce Halvoca. Harold Hawes and Clif-
shadowing all, of coiir-e, is the prohihi-I ford Pirie. There were numerous fl-tral
tion iue. but loca.lv there is more than I tributes. Interment was made in II
the usual amount of speculation over t he I cemetery
out"onie of the vote on license. It has
Sttnighton. died
been said that the complexion of the re
tised rbevklist portends Barre 's return to
the "wet" column, but admitting the
h-r maiden nai.ie ling 'probable closeness of the vote, many d-
ller liiihanda Horar K. wrvcrs see no reason for Is diet ing that
men.
the r-irk of many Canadian anljrmt cl.urrh in Rovalton
AnwrUan voung men. who have cnlii-tl A i-raver srrite will W 1 I from tl
in the pt year. AH are well trained j Tennr hr.m at l':30 Wedn.-s.lar fre
and Canadians who have lf-n wat line j nv-n. after whi.h the ldr will br tak.n
the pngre of tie battalion. fe.l t hat i t- the home of Mrs. Knur ill in T!aw..d;)h.
the jirtM'iidjers :jj f a aoY-tint jmler the funeral ill take yUy Tkwr
of theni--le. hmii M..ntil IVtViu 'iSit at 2 p. m , ita burial in tint
ga tijrvt' to Frsacc lge.
rears ,,. Mrs. I Barre ill make a shift. It is eenrrallv
memlier f the r.prc - j conceded, however, that if Barre votes
yes on fie loesi question there will be a
majority of Tot against the perry act.
S little interest has centered abntit the
primary referendum that any prediction
of the vote h.ally wotild f haphazard.
Amtbr sction of the warning in
liarr ht. h should l t-f prt n!ar ln
tncttt Barre voter is that which 4
A GUILFORD CORPORATION.
Co-operative Creamery Assocutioa
Deal in All Farm Products.
t
decided to-morrow is
The voters are ready for action
The rally was scheduled to begin at 8
o'clock but a half-hour had passed before
the speaker begun. J. Edward Ward, a
traveling man, whose communications to
the press have sought to discount the im
pression that traveling men are patrons
of hotel bars, was, in charge of a victrola
that dispensed patriotic selections while
the committee was waiting for the crowd
to appear. One harmonious effusion,
"Don't Bite the Hand That Feeds You."
in which Cnclo Sam was giving a bit of
advk-e to some of his adopted nephews,
seemed to find the readiest favor with
the audience and an encore was loudly
demanded.
O. K. Holliter. principal of Goddard
seminary, was selected to introduce the
speaker and in his prefatory remark, he
urged his auditors to consider some of
the alleged discrepancies that had crept,
into the advertising matter of the Local
Option league. His disclaimer contended
thnt some of the features opposed by the
local optioniids in the Perry bill are pre
served intact in the local option law that
has been in existence for 13 years. Be
fore opening the wav for Mr. Hanlv's re
marks, Mr. Hollister urged the voters to
discuss the exposures over Sunday.
Legislative, economic and social aspects
of the liquor problem were discussed by
Mr. Hanly. In the beginning he proposed
to consider the question of state-wide
prohibition as a basic, underlying issue,
in a great nation, an issue that is to
reach its climax in Vermont next Tues
day, he said. He spoke rapidly of the
advances made in the direction of tem
perance in other states, and declared that
prohibition is a part of this nation's evo
lution. The paces of history, he went
on. are filled with the whitening bones of
dead evil in man's struggle for the at
tainment Of ultimate good. Briefly he .
fra-ed the growth of the liquor habit In
America, from its inception when drink
ing was not considered an evil, until it
assumed the proiortions of a national
industry, a national traffic, yes, a na
tional evil.
Xo generation ever solved more than
one great aorisl problem. The great oc
casion is usually met by a great man nd
an et il is eliminated. Instancing a c-c
in oint. he referred to the appearance of
Washington on the stage of colonial ic
tivity in the lth century. Again he
called attention to the nic-tint; of Lin
coln anil the slavery issue in the middle
of the I'th centurv. Kaclt crisis and the
elimination of cm h etil has been peculiar
to a -ertin feneration. To-day's proh
bsm. be ttcnt on. i- the lepmr frobl-ra.
and bow niantuliv the ton-cs tor o,l ars
attxikin the cnciey in its o n launta
is attested t th provrrsa ttat pr.
! ;bitiwi is m;ik;ff tfcTousrnm.t t e union
!n. h o" the g-efnT-s time was .V-
Artifles of a-ss i( ion hate l-en filet
at the s.t-rctary of state's of!i f.-r the
(.uilfor l Co .j-ratire ( rcsnicry aicia
t idi. Inc.. t-t deal in all farm product.
The capital st. V is S .' and tlete arc
shares. The in'"rjs.Tator are G. II. j i to what fce tcrnict b prims! r
I astlc. A. G. Ileal. R I. lnVTlm. It. A. tor en-ferine C fg'-t asm-t binor.
bit mote. C. K. larwum.l.. A. Sc...r.-. The aw'nl Vr tj.-c in.ti I1 h.!!ri
M. A. Thon,a. M. C. Mark and A. 1."
ca, (CcE,t.EM-i on tcvcBti ,j
