t,
V
J
irtt
NIGHT
EXTRA
STRAt
Cuenmg
mrfrger
b
NIGHT
'a
'FINANCIAL EDITION
.
W --
EXTRA
PRICE ONE CENT
ifc
VOL. III. NO. GG
RUSSIANS LAUNCH
BUKOWINA ATTACK
TO SAVE RUMANIA
Starfc Strong Offensive in
Carpathians and Cap
ture Positions
IVALLAOHIA IS IN RUINS
kjampolung Ncnr Fnll Mackcn-
sen Advances Closer
to Bucharest
BEIlLtN, Nov. 29.
IUisslnn troops operating with the Ilu-
pnahlans In the Corpnthlans have begun n
Sjirons offensive movement In nn effort to
fftllevo tho pressure of the German allies
Fin Interior Itumnnln. The War Office today
Freported numerous Russian attacks, i
The Auatro-ucrmans unaer uencrni von
f'Fatkenhayn continue their steady advance
Lacrosa the Wnllachlan plain.
The Itumanlans aro fleeing eastward In
fdUordcr, tho offlclat communication says.
Field Marshat von Mackcnson'n army.
Weeping northward from tho Danube, Is
liwlftly drawing within artillery range of
i Bucharest
The nusso-Ilumanlan forces are reported
'to be evacuating Campolung to avoid being
(outflanked by the Auatro-Ocrman forces
Ithat captured Kurtca Arjesh.
The Rumanian Government had been es
tablished at Jnssy, 200 miles north of
fUueharest.
The clvlllnn population of Bucharest Is
.Bald to bo In night.
Dispatches from the Rumanian front to-
tday stated that the retreating Rumanians
Brought widespread havoa In their flight.
ITIte wako of tho retiring army Is marked
by the charred and blackened ruins of vll-
Slages, destroyed bridges and railway lines.
ulned stores of grain and other foodstuffs
ind burning ollwells, which were- set afire
sby the fugltlvo troops.
The rich and fertile Wallachlan plain has
gbecome a complete picture of war's deso
jUtton, PETROGItAD, Nov. 20.
The ridges and heights eastward and
Southward gf Klrlibaba wero captured by
fjlujslan troops, today's official statement
fiiStrted.
Klrllbaba Is In southeastern Bukowlna,
.'in.ha Carpathians.
'-'-
nUHANIANS STILL HAVE
X CHANCE TO HALT FOES
LQNDON, Nov. 2D.,
m.
fipsifrbgress, of Field Marshal von Slacken
8fn'i forces from the newly captured town
. les:
o(.uiurgevo, on me uanuoe, was ine crux
of the Itumanlan situation today. If the
.Teuton wedge "of entry can be blunted and
lis power stopped until the Itumanlan army
tin fallen back to Its latest lino of defense
presumably alone the Argealu Klvcr the
Romanians, ro-enforced by tho Russians,
may yet turn their retirement Into a vic
tory.
It was pointed out hero as a continued
luxury of hope In the Rumanian situation,
that the Berlin official statements aro still
ilKntflcantly silent na to captures of largo
bodies of troops or of transport supplies
ndleatlng, In tho view of tho Atlles, that
ie. Rumanian retreat has been an orderly
onB snn innr If linn ..nnn.fl v,na. n. 41m
'encircling movements on which the German
uaiKan campaign has been based,
Paris reports that the capital of Rumania
has temporarily been established at Jasav.
'about two hundred miles northeast of
Uucharest. close to the Russian line, we
unconfirmed. Such a move, however, would
not be unexpected.
WliANCO-SERBS ADVANCE;
CAPTURE TWO "HEIGHTS
P i'AIUS, JYOV. 19.
'-"Mimea progress or Aiuea forces norm
ind west of Monastlr was reported In to
tals omciat statement.
jsast of the Cerna the Serbians brilliant
carried and retainer! a. hAfi-hf nnpthw..
IWl1 "J01"""' oesplta violent counter-attacks
JL'rr "$ enemy.
is v""j ouucreu oig losses in (nese ac
On. Northeast of Slonastlr French Knn.
Jys aro pursuing the Teutonic forces and
-tra jno neignt east of Hill 1050.
-Northwest nf Via oi.v D ..fAi. kh.i. i-
$'??!?" J"18 Frenh advancing toward
riiiu SiiJ whlcn ,s "rongly fortlned. The
'Italian rnrAH tmAn r.&.Mi o i.
i. " ""r - tiariau are
!r. '""',nB in tno mpuntains around
,w -uvvciia
TEUTONS HALT BRITISH
I ATTACK NEAR GIVENCHY
Tlnf TT X mn.
tDUUa of nn ttitar-h- . n.itt.v. -
f&anv ; : m ; r:ifc "', r.v"a" u:
w i? itx .a denae t0St waa announced
n-: .".. d uiiii:i;ii .ini.manr
iln the HommA R.Mn. h. .......... ..u
UJo llro lncreuaeil d urine- th..v.nin,.
St. Pierre Vaast woods.
:tm.. . -., our, .Q.
KJf violent cannonadlny south ot the
". oam iqaays JJTench official state
aetalllny tho flghtlnff on th western
THE WEATHER
FOltEOABT
Ifer Phttadelphta qnd vMnHy-Vnset-
g iceather and mild Umperature this
noon and tonight vXth probably rain;
Bffidau partly cloudy, telth colder in
' arernoou ond night; moderate south-
viiuU Becoming westerly.
T.ENGTII QV DAV
J. oi . m. I iioon rl. gs p. m.
ta..
DCLMVAUK K1VEU IIDB CHANGES
CHESTNUT 8TBEST
Hr J!. m. i lltli vwr- M. is-
TUfnaUTVBU AT KtCtt MUOS
Tioi ffnjirrTi 3i 4t s
CITY'S POOR "WILL NOT GO TURKEYLESS TOMORROW
Easjg3m'jiw IMBr TO,.. .
ynnrnaoio organizations nnd phllnnthroplcnlly inclined individuals aro giving nwny turkeys ami Thanksgiving
dinners with a lavish hand this year. Representatives of Mrs. George W. Childs Drexel nro seen in the photo
graph presenting needy widows with n basket containing a precious fowl ond nil tho holiday fixin's, nt 1719
South Ninth street.
TURKEYS SLUMP
TO THIRTY CENTS
Housewives' Refusal to Buy
Beats Price Down From
45 Cents
CRITICISM FOR DEALERS
The prlco of best-grade turkeys in this
city has fallen ten to fifteen cents In the
last twenty-four hours.
Tho market began its slide yesterday
morning, and up to noon today was still
falling. Turkeys that sold for forty to
forty-five cents a pound are today selling
for thirty nnd thirty-two cents.
Tho reason, tradesmen and commission
men say. Is that there is hot tho expected
demand for them. Tho consumer Is re
fusing to pay them unprecedented high
prices, preferring to eat beef.
The situation was summed up by Wil
liam D, Edson, president of Edson Brothers,
a wholesale' poultry Arm on Dock street
as follows:
"A lot of Idiots, commission men. went
down South' this year and paid exorbitant
prices to the farmers. They had to because
the farmers held' off, quoting the "hlgtf prices
given by the newspapers.
"The stock wasn't bought Intelligently.
Some of tho b.uyers paid prices equal to
somo retail prices last year. Those men
counted on the public paying their prices
with a little added for profit. Tho publla
Isn't paying them, and there you are. The
market Is glutted. Thousands of the birds
aro going Into the warehouses because
their Is no market for them. The house
wife Is not buying turkey this year.
"I believe that this will teach tho com.
mission men a lesson and that they will
exercise more Judgment when they buy the
Christmas atock. Christmas turkeys will
sell perhaps for as cheap as 35 cents a
pound retail,' 30 cents wholesale, because
the farmers will not, get the high prices
that they did for this crop."
Turkeys aro selling for as low as thirty
and thirty-two cents a pound in the neigh
borhood of Second and Callowhlll strets,
regarded by many as the "turkey center,"
Many of the wholesale houses are selling
the birds retail to get rid of them. N. B.
White, at 106 Callowhlll street. Is selling
best-grade turkeys at twenty-seven to thirty
Contlnutd on I'sie flu. Culunio T
matt: clubs keeper'
and flees in auto
Surrenders by Telephone as Po
lice Push Chase After
Him
NEW YQRK. Nov. S9, After ataslng a
tjjrllllng early morning auto racs from
Qreenwlch, Cnn., to New York, In which
ho was a complete victor over 'the police
and his keepers, Philip Max, twenty-seven
years old, Colgate eraduato and asyhim
Inmate, surrendered himself voluntarily to
day and was taken back to the sanitarium
from which he had escaped. By telephone
he advised the sanitarium that ha was to
bo found In a Twenty-sixth street store.
The outraced pursuers were In turn so
advised when they telephoned for Instruct
tlons.
Police from uptown stations wers rushed
In the direction of the city limits to meet
the fast-nylng machine carrying- Max. Max,
who had gone to Doctor Alley's sanitarium
several months ago and whq was Impris
oned when h showed a desire to. leave,
mada his escape about 4 o'clock this morn
Inir lie had been handcuffed to his bed.
Falling to break the handcuffs, he broke
thWhen only an Iron bar fltlH remained at
tached to his wrists, he entered his
keeper's room carrying this as a club. The
keeper attempted to grapple with Mar, but
one blow on bis head made him willing to
unlock tho handcuffs, as demanded.
The victim ot the Iron club then aroused
another keeper and the two followed the
fugitive to Oreenwlch. They found be bad
obtained an automobile and started toward
New York.
Max U said to b the nephew of Mrs,
Mark Hanna'a secretary, who lauvlo at
tho J'laia Hotel
Max when found was without tb ttctton
of Iron tliaft was caa jwrKst mvt I
Clear on Thanksgiving
Afternoon, Forecast Says
GENERALLY unsettled, with prob
ablo clearing and colder weather,
is tho prediction for Thanksgiving
Day by Forecaster Bliss.
Thoso who plan to witness tho
Pcnn - Cornell football gamo at
Franklin Field, or take part in other
outdoor festivities, should not be
come nlarmcd, becauso Mr. Bliss is
confident tho afternoon will bo clear.
Light rains are expected tonight,
to continuo until morning nnd possi
bly to noon. Rain is falling in Vir
ginia, western Pennsylvania nnd tho
whole of Nov York Stnto today.
POOR BEFRIENDED
FOR THANKSGIVING
Mrs. George W. Childs
Drexel and Lemon Hill As
sociation Among Donors
HOSPITALS. SEEK HELP
Thanksgiving began today with tho giv
ing of baskets to tho poor and the obser
vance of donation day In Institutions
throughout the city.
Mrs. aeorgo Vf. Childs Drexel distributed
a. large number of Thanksgiving baskets
from 1710 South Ninth street. From 9
o'clock this morning until 3 Jn tho after
noon families that have been found to bo
In njed by Miss M. A. Gilbert, prlvato In
vestigator for Mrs. Drexel, will call at the
Ninth street address and recIVo baskets
filled with provisions.
Moro than a hundred Thanksgiving bas
kets were distributed to "worthy friends"
ot tho Lemon 11111 Association In the Car
rlck Theater last night.
Contributions of money, clothing, gro
ceries and other useful articles are being
received at hospitals and charitable Insti
tutions. Many of them depend largely
upon the Thanksgiving season, with Its
generous spirit, to aid them In their work.
The Episcopal Hospital will be open
until 6 p. m. today for the reception of
visitors. The hospital, which works In
conjunction with organized charities, needs
more than $100,000 annually above Its In
come from Invested funds to carry on Its
work. Its patients number 5000 annually
and 30,000 persons are treated In the dis
pensary every year, Sixty-seven per cent
are treated free and twenty-seven per cent
help pay for treatment.
Today Is donation day for the Jane D.
Kent Day Nursery, 1703 Vine street. The
"institution, which was founded In 1313, pro
vides for the dajly care of children of poor,
Industrious working women whose duties
take them away from home during the day.
The officers are Mrs. Oeorge B. Evans,
president; Mrs. David W. Hunt, vice presi
dent ;M rs. Alfred F. Moore, treasurer, and
Miss Grace Lee Delk,' secretary and corre
sponding secretary.
The sixty-seventh anniversary of the
Soujhern Home for Destitute Children,
Broad and Morris streets, is being cele
brated as donation day with an "open
house" for Inspection by friends and other
visitors. Olfts are being received by the
treasurer ot the board of managers, Mrs.
Oeorge Q. Itoss. Howard W. Lewis is preal.
dent of the board of trustees and Mrs. I.
Robert Newklrk president of tho board of
managers. ,
Contributions are being received today for
the annual Thanksgiving dinner to be given
00 poor children and their mothers by the
Helping Hand Ilescue Mission, 721 North
Second street.
"SCALPERS" ADD HALF
TO FOOTBALL PRICES
Men With Plenty of Tickets at Broad
and Chesfnut Demand
High Prices
Ticket "scalpers" are selling tickets for
the Penn-Cornell game In front of the Land
Title Building at Broad and Chestnut
streets. They r charging fifty per cent
more than the face value for all tickets and
seem to be well stocked with them, but on
account of tho fabulous prices are not doing
very ftjuch business.
People passing to and fro are frequently
Interrupted by these speculators yelling
osfisket for tomorrow game. Buy or
Several nave been detour WmIm ecroa
PHILADELPHIA, WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 2D, 191G
..iSfSWSWKrSi
"WE'LL BRING EGGS
D0WN,"WOMEN CRY
"Just Hold On," Advice
Flashed in New York
Boycott
80,000 HOMES JOIN WAR
Women Use Endless Chain
in Boycott Against Eggs
NEW YORK. Nov. 20.
ONE of tho most effective blows in
tho boycott ngninst eggs has been
delivered by women applying tho
endless chain.
One woman called twenty-five of
her friends by telophone and. asked
each to nbstnin from tho use of
egps for two weeks. Sho. also asked
each of these twenty-five women lo
call twenty-uvo of her women friends
by telephone and spread the boycott.
Tho first relayofr that mdssaRO,
providing each of the first twenty
fivo telephoned to twenty-five friends,
reached 625 women. The second ro
lay of tho ''don't buy eggs" propa
ganda went into 15,025 homes, and,
still providing each woman tele
phoned to twenty-five friends and
thero were no duplicates, the third
round reached 300,025 'Women, and
the fifth 9,705,025, which are about
enough women to get anything they
want, when thoy want it nnd as they
want it.
NEW YORK. Nov. 23. With virtually
every clvlo association and woman's club
In the city behind It, New York's boycott
on eggs went Into the second stage today.
Housewives entered upon the second day
with the satisfactory knowledge that their
nrst day's efforts resulted In "tho price of
eggs dropping one to two cents a dozen.
"Just hold on," wn tho advice sent out
from headquarters 0f tho National House
wives' League, "and we'll bring eggs down
to where we all can enjoy them." Hun
dreds of letters have been received at the
league'H headquarters from women, pledg
ing their support during the Ufa ot the
boycott.
Tho number of homes In which no eggs
are being eaten Is problematical, but, ac
cording to tho league's calculations, they
will number between 25,000 and 30,000. The
declaration of war against eggs also made
Continued on rase Two. Column Two
ARGENTINA OFFERED
'aprican ASSISTANCE
Financiers Propose to Complete
Public Works Tied Up by
' European War
United Pr SpcUl South American Btrvlco,
BTJEN03 AlHES, Nov. 29. Minister of
PubUo Works Torello Is considering the
acceptance of financial assistance from the
United States for a resumption of Important
publlo enterprises which the Kuropean war
has tied up during many months.
Tho offer, It was understood here today,
was made through Dr. Hichard P, Strong,
who was Introduced to Minister Torelio by
tho big Argentine banker, Charles A, Torn-
qulst, as the representative of 'strong North
American Interests" with money which they
aro willing to Invest In completion of such
undertakings as tho Buenos Aires harbor
works and the Argentlno Htate-owned rail
roads. Tne Minister asked for a detailed propoal
tion which. In local financial circles, U
deemed likely to lead to entrance of North
American Investors Into Argentina on a
rg8 scale In the near uture.
It was also- reported today that North
American money U now enlisted in ths de
velopment of Argentine oil deposits. Nego
tlatlons. It Is said, have been conducted by
men high in the present Irlgoyen Admlnla
tratlon. AH that any officials would ay
today was that they were dealing with
representatives ot American oil interests,
whose experts have surveyed the country
from Bolivia to Cape Horn. ,
Minuter of Agrlcultura Pueyrredon Is
pushing the development scheme.
More Pay for Scranton Workers
SCRANTON, Pa-, Nov. 29 Tha PeUrs
burg 81 Company. wnptoylBg 100 hands m
tw mr, MKiwm$ flvjppef wt
CortiiQiir,
QUICK
COURT REFUSES TO REVOKE SALOON LICENSE
Common Dens Court Judges Bnrrntt nnd Davis In nn op&iloa
'handed down this afternoon, scftiscd to rcvoko the bnloon license of
Itllclmcl J. Burke, sowthwest corner of Sixtieth hnd Lnitsdowne nvcw
nuo. When tho license to transfer the saloon from 2100 Cnllowlilll
street was granted originally residents about Ttxticth and Lnnstlowne
avenue protested and tho License Court reconsidered tho case at n
special hcqring. Today's decision Is the result of that heating.
TWO BIG RUSSIAN TRANSPORTS SUNK
BEIUilN, Nov. 20. Two large llussinu transports, bearing the
138th Regiment, have been sunk between Ilclslngfors and llcval, ac
cording to a report published by the Swedish newspaper Aftonutatlct.
'Eixo nowspapcr said tho disaster occurred lato hi OcUVor and was
caused probably by mines.
TODAY'S RACING RESULTS
First Bowie race, 2-year-olds, 0 furlongs, selling Felucca, 107,
Williams, ?7.10, 93.00, $2.70, won; Otsego, 110, Dutwell, $3.30,
$2.00, second; lady Clinton, 102, Crump, $3.20, third. Time, 1.1D.
Second Bowie race, selling, handicap, 2-year-olds nnd up, 7 fur
longsInn Kay, 108, Crump, $6.30, $3.70, $3.10, won; Margaret N.,
105, Brown, $1.80, $3.10,, second; Vermont, 112, Ward, $2.00, third.
Time, 1.28 -1-0.
i
Third Bowie race, selling, 3-yenr-olds and up, 1 mile and 1 fur
long Bob -Itedfield, 106, Crump, $4.70, $2.00, $2.30, won; Counter
part, ll'l, Ilnyucs, $2.80, $2.50, second; Pinnlco, 100, aourlcy, $2.00,
third. Time, 1.57 3-5',
BANDITS BLOW HAZLETON, KAN., BANK SAFE; GET $12,000
HA55LETON, Ivan.. Nov. 29. Four masked bandits blow tho sofa of tho Hazlo
ton Stnto Bank today and escaped with moro than 112,000. Tho robbers bound and
JWrgod two younjj men oporntors In tho local telephone office nnd tool: tho operators
with them In an automobile In which they fled.
RAILROADS WOULD SELL OUT TO U. S., PROBERS ARE TOLD
WASHINGTON, Nov. 2. Tho flrat Intimation of a dcslro of tho big railroads
of the country for Government ownership of their lines was given this afternoon by
A. P. Thorn, reprosontlnir tho railroads poforo tho Nowlands joint congressional
committee. Mr. Thorn nnld that "many big railroads" would sell out to tho Govern
ment on-short .notice It fair offers were-made. 'The' statement was In rcsponso to
nn Inquiry by ttopreaontatlvo Slmms. of Tenncssco. n member of tho committed.
who dcclnred "Government ownership
roou uuiicuitles.
v
DU PONT DIVIDENDS 100 PER CENT FOR YEAR
"WILMINGTON, Del., Nov. 29. E. I. du Pont de' Nemours & Co. today
declared a regular dividend of 1 per cent nnd an extra dlvldond of 21 per cent
on Its common stock, payable December IB to stockholders of record November 29.
Today's dlvldond makes n total of 100 per cent for tho year on tho common atock.
A preferred stock dividend of 1 per cent was also declared, payablo January 25
to stockholders of record January 10. Today's dividend of J2G per share Is payablo
In cash. Tho other three quarterly dividends paid this year totaled $17 In cash nnd
157 In Anglo-French bonds.
GERMANS GET THREE EGGS A WEEK
NEW YOrtK, Nov. 29. On piece of meat threo Inches In diameter and one egg
three times a week now form tho chief diet of German civilians, according to Mrs.
Lawrence Lanier Wlnslow, wife of the third assistant secretary of the American
Embassy In Berlin. Mrs. Wlnslow was lioro today on tho way to visit her parents,
Mr. and Mrs. Henry Kelsey Devorends, in Cleveland. Outside tho triweekly allot
ment of meat and eggs, she said, tlio principal foods aro ccronl and potatoes. Despite
this, however, tho German people apparently nro cheerful and confident, she-declared.
RAILROADS ASKED TO RETURN FREIGHT CARS
Eastern railroads havo been asked by the conference committee on efficiency
of the American Itnllway Association to return freight cars speedily to other roads
which may need them. Tho Pennsylvania Hallroad had 30,963 freight cars on Us
lines In excess of tho total number ot cars It owns on November 1,
U-BOAT ACTIVITY RAISES MARINE INSURANCE RATE
NEW TOItlC, Nov. 2D. Increasing apprehension In maritime circles oyer sub
marine activity, accentuated by the sinking of the American Bteamshlp Chemung
and tho British steamship City of Hirmingham, caused another sharp advance Jn
marine Insurance rates here today. Hates Jumped to eight to Jen per cent, as com
pared with five to six per cent a few days ago, Local underwriters wero hit hard
by the .loss of the Chemung and Dlrmlngham. The former was Insured for $600,000
and the latter for 11,000,000,
DESTRUCTIVE EARTHQUAKE ROCKS JAPAN
TOKIO, Nov, 29, Earthquake shocks felt through all middle Japan have de
stroyed many houses In Kobe, Osaka and Kyoto, The railroad station at Kyoto
toppled over and many were hurt by falling walls and roofs. -
U. G. I. PAYS 366,000 AS ITS SHARE OF STATE TAX
The United Gas Improvement Company has paid 7363,000 Into the treasury
of the State of Pennsylvania as State tax. Today Is the last day of the fiscal year,
and it Is expected that moro than $1,000,000 in taxes will bo received at Harrlsburg,
making the State revenues moro than 135,000,000 for the year.
U. S. AWARDS CONTRACTS FOR 29 SUBMARINES
WASHINGTON, Nav. 29. Secretary of the Navy Daniels today awarded con.
tracts for construction of twenty-seven coast submarines and two 800-ton seagoing
submarines., for the American navy to the following: Electric Boat Company, New
York city, eighteen coast submarines, at I69T.009 each: one seagoing submarine, at
$1,189,000. Lake Torpedo Boat Company, Bridgeport, Conn., six const submarines,
at 1091,000 each, and one seagoing submarine, at 11,195,000. California Shipbuilding
Company, San Francisco, Cat, three coast submarines, at 1698,000 each.
EMPEROR'S BODY INCLOSED IN SILVER QASKJIT
VIENNA. Nov. 29. For the last two days there, has been an endless Droceasinn
passing before the bier of the lato Emperor Francis Joseph In the Ilofburg chapeL
Persons of every station In life were In the throngs. The massive silver casket la
closed, btt the placid features of the dead monarch can be seen through the thick,
glass window In the lid. Prince Ferdinand of Bavaria, Prince von Fuerstenbera
and many other German noWemen have already arrived. A severe cold from which
KaUer WUhelra Js suffering will prevent his attendance at the funeral tomorrow. He
placed a wreath on the bier while here yesterday.
$25,000,000 SHIPBUILDING CORPORATION ORGANIZED
The New York Shipbuilding Corporation, with, capital stock totaling 115,000,009,
pas been organised under the laws of New York, to take over the business and saeu
of the Hew York Shipbuilding Company, recently bought by the American Interna
llonal Gorporajtan,. tt gMrttoaJ Mtreawne Msri and iy. 1 One J.
loifl, it ins resuo Ltrnn couriMt
NEWS
offers tho only solution to tho present rail-
COP INSURANCE
ROUSES MAYOR;
PLEDGESPROBE
Will -Punish Gambler in
Lives if Facts
Warrant !
AN UNKNOWN SANTA
PAYS THE PREMIUMS
Dependents Do Not Get
$2400; Query Now:
Who Does?
WHITELEY WON'T TELL
How "Santa Clans" Profits
by Deaths of City Policemen
Total insurance out on
lives of 4000 policemen
aggregates about $10,000,000
t.acn policy is tor,
2,500
On death of a policeman
tho I'ollco Boncucinry
Association receives
from Ponsion M u tu n I
Lifo Insuranco Com
pany
2,500
100
Association deducts
Dalnnco of $2400 goes to
Seth II. Whltoly, insur
ance agent, who delivers
it to "philanthropist,"
who pays tho premiums.
Who is ,tho person who
. profits to tho extent of.
2.40&
Mayor Smith said this afternoon that
If there developed tho slightest suspicion
of graft by ono of his administrative fam
ily or a member ot any prevlods administra
tion in connection with police insurance, as
It Is linked up with the Pension Mutual
Llfo Insuranco Company by tho Police
Benoflclary Association, ho personalty
would begin an Investigation.
The exposure came yesterday when Com
mon Councilman I. Walter Thompson, Forty
Blxth Ward, introduced In Councils a reso
lution calling for a councllmanla inquiry.
Mr. Thompson said Councils should find out
who was making money out ot the deaths
of Philadelphia's policemen.
Seventy-six policemen have died slnoa
January 1 last.
The Mayor talked about this latest phas
ot tho Insurance .scandal, whlchlnauranie
Commissioner O'Nell has been probing sine
he asked the Dauphin County courts more
than throoweeks ngo to name a receiver for
'tho Pension Mutual.. The Mayor's state
ments" were made after otnctals of the police
department declared It was up to Commis
sioner O'Nell to make an Investigation If
Buch a scandal were suspected,
MAYOR'S STATEMENT
Mayor Smith said:
. If there Is the slightest suspicion
that any ono In this Administration
or any previous administration I
grafting 'or getting a rakeoff In con
nection with this police Insuranco he ,
shall bo shown up and punished.
The Mayor was asked:
"Do you think a councllmanlo Investiga
tion would serve the purpose best?" Ho an
swered: That I have not determined. This
matter has come up when we are all
busy with the tax-rate question, but I
mean to give It time later on.
We don't want grafters In this ad
ministration. I don't know enough
about this matter to go Into It in detail
Just now, but you may say for me that
oven the suspicion of a rake-off will be
enough to Btart an Investigation on irfy
part which will go to the bottom of It.
OFFICIALS LEAIIN OF PLAN
While Councilman Thompson, of th
Forty-sixth Ward, was saying today that
he would Insist on a councllmanlo inves
tigation Into the affairs of the Polio
Benetlclary Association as related to the
Pension Mutual Life Insurance Company,
ot Pittsburgh, Director ot Publlo- Safety
Wilson, Assistant Director Davis and
Superintendent Koblnson learned that there
existed Insurance on their lives In the. Pen
stoniLlfe. This was a revelation to them.
It Is revealed today that many policemen.
Including the chiefs, ore thus insured, Only
when they die their families do not get the
money. It goes to someone else.
When a, policeman dies the company
Continued en I'ie four. Column On
AUTO DRIVERS WARNED
AGAINST RORBERGANG
Five Machines Stolen Within
Twenty-fqur Hours--Thievea
' Getting Busy
Automobile Insurance .companies In this
city today sent circular letters lo their
clients warning them against parking their
automobiles In places where-they could not
be watched, as a band ot "auto thieves" Is
known to be working fn this city. ThU
warning especially applies to Thanksglvlna
Day.
Five machines have been stolen within
twenty-rfour hours, accordlor td reporU
made to the detective bureau in City Hall
today. 4i- ,,,- . ,,-
Those whose. ron?Mjj.wre stolen werei . -MrsT
Salome ShaWqjoa? SU Sprier Oar
den street. (ar'Wjnjrryro; n twnt ot her
home, value WM0ffKik it I Smswb
street, 1199 iotp, UofrA. Tr? In tronf -;
of 1T0? SansoTO street,, tw waBhtjie -tn$M
later recovered, cWlsj,-P BjMfi, Jill
Spruce street, er valttA-at 1409. Palfs
car, the property ot A. B. SuWJvaa, of a
Frkld avenue, stolen, ttma Jij trmt of 5ui
fcpuiHi last Wihtl the rayt wn yamtg -a .
l- a.414tattPWMMKj
WWPWP- BHM; ? WW w
m
m
t i -a
';vw
-3&:
i
u m
rm-mrmrmtwrsrrri
SBr to ludsak m htwlattis.
fjjggjMB Mf t 'JSU
as.upr pwumwtjasaHKaaf " -"vm& ?w
tj """mnnmiiu fih-'w m, .
""
F 3-M -.
-i"-
WiiffffiF
