MORGAN DEFIES!25 A week n. y. clerk
ii n iiT i mi i u n ah LIVED LIKE A RICH MAN
U.o.WAKmnuun
BRITISH NOTES
Treasury Bills of France
Also to Ho Offered to
I'ublic This Week.
MANY BANKS It HAD Y
TO PUHCHASE ISSUES
State Superintendent Says
They Are a Legal Invest
incut in New York.
1REVENTL0W FLAYS
WILSON MEDIATION
A. J. Loeffler, Who Confessed to Stealing Between
$100,000 and $125,000, Had $2,000 Apartment
and Kept Three Motor Cars.
AIM: FOB SHOBT TEBM,
PAYABLE AT MATUK1TY
Beserrc Board Says Britain
Bas Issued $6,000,000,
000 at Home.
The Federal Reserve Board's warning
to American banker to avoid locking up
their funds by excessive purchases of
Treasury bills of foreign Governments
filled to change the plans of J. 1. Mor
in tc Co. to bring, out short term obll
ttlona of Great Britain and France on
k about December 1. The bills will bo
told, a member of the firm said, ac
cording to the plan announced last week.
President of several large banks said
Uty proposed to buy them.
On the part of the prospctlve sellers
r.d purchasers It was said that the Fed
iral Jte serve. Doard was under a mis
understanding regarding the form which
the British and French Treasury bills
111 take. In Its statement the board
aid the bills would be renewable, and
tint eventually they would thus be
turned Into long term obligations, which
could tie up the liquid funds of Ameri
can tanks. Hankers favoring the offer
lit taid that the bills are to be paid
it miturlty and that the offering of
further bills on the maturity of the ilrat
remained for both the bankers and tho
foreign Governments to decide.
Adolph J. Locrrtcr, a young clerk In
the employ of Francis It. Leggett Co.,
wholesale grocers, explained yesterday
how he managed to buy $35,000 worth
of furniture, keep three automobiles and
one liveried chauffeur, pay 12,000 a year
rent for his seven room apartment, run
a cigar business and spend $5,000 a
month keeping up appearances all on
his salary of $25 a week.
District Attorney Edward Swann and
Assistant Dtetrlct Attorney Moses It
nittenberg were Interested auditors of
his adventures In high finance, and after
they had questioned him they sent him
up to the Jefferson Market police court,
vvhero he pleaded guilty to grand larceny
and forgery. He said he had embezzled
between $100,000 and $123,000 from the
grocery concern that paid him the twenty-five
per.
George W. Morgan, attorney for Leg
gett Co., said that $73,000 might
cover the firm's' losses, but auditors are
still at work on Ioeffler's private books
end on the omen accounts, and the
amount of the thefts will not be ascer
tatned until to-day or1 to-morrow.
An Kre for Economy.
Until a few months ago Loeffler kept
the money he had stolen from the firm
In a safe In the Leggett offices. He had
n head for business and didn't want to
pay out anything for a private safety
deposit box when he could use the safe.
without charge. He also bought from
Leggett & Co. the cigars he used In
his business nnd obtained favorable
prices from his employers.
Not only did the cigar stands make
money for him. but they proved to be
convenient when' any one began to won
der where nil his money was coming
from. His friends knew that he wasn't
paying his chauffeur $25 a week out of
his salary as a clerk, and they figured
that the tiger skin rugs and other luxu
ilea In his apartment represented the
profits on the cigar business.
His good looking wife of 25, who was
a stenographer In the Iggett offices
until he married her two years ago, like
wire attributed their prosperity to the
tobacco venture. She also had been sur
prised when they moved from their $15
a month apartment at 916 Southern
Houlevard, The Ilronx. to their preten
tious home In West Klghty-slxth street,
but nccepted his explanation.
Ijoelrler U a Bohemian, 30 years of
age. The executives of the Leggett firm
nnA the freight brokers who had deal
ings with him regarded him as a steady
young man without any great possibili
ty as a financier, lie drcsscu without
ostentation even when he was making
$1,000 a week by means of his forgeries.
Loses an Inheritance.
When LoefTier left his native land at
an early age he went to Chicago and
lived with one of his uncles. He later
eiiKasecl In business with this relative.
but upon inheriting i,uuu sauea to
Brazil and put every cent into conce
speculations. He was cleaned out In a
brief time and was forced to come back
to this country. Ho got a Job In Chi
cago with a grocery concern, nnd six
years ago came to this city to work for
Leggett & Co. Loeffler handled the bills
of lading and freight bills.
Soon after the great war began, when
the financial district and State street.
the habitat of the shipping brokers, were
filled with stories of sudden and vast
profits In foreign trade, Loeffler thought
of a way of turning a little of this gold
In his direction. He confessed yesterday
that when he received a freight bill from
a broker he would make nut a duplicate
In his own handwriting, have It ap
proved by the auditor, and afterward add
an Item of a few hundred dollars.
As the addition was In Ixwlfler'a hand
writing the forged bill passed the cash
ier, who gave him a check for the larger
amount made out to the broker who hnn
died the goods. Loeffler said that he
took the check down to the broker and
received another check drawn to bearer
for' the difference between the original
genuine claim and the raised bill. Loef
fler said he gave the broker to under
stand that the "bearer" check would go
to an outsider as a commission for
swinging foreign orders In the direction
of Leggett A Co.
HIh Suppressed Article Accuses
'President of Plnnning to
Crush Germany.
FIRST PUBLICATION 1IKHE
Teuton Firebrand Su.vs Execu
tive Seeks Anlo-Saxon
World Domination.
PRESIDENT IS AROUSED
AMERICAN STEAMER S7NYRI)MANIANSQUIT
BUCHAREST AS
FOE CLOSES IN
WILSON TO PROTEST
BELGIAN OUTRAGES BY AUSTRIAN SUBMARINE;
NEW CRISIS THREATENED
New HeprcsentatloiiN to Ger
many on Deportation
Planned.
The Chemung, Which Wouldn't Lower U. S. Flag,
Torpedoed Off Mediterranean Coast of Spain
Crew Abandoned in Small Boats.
Cabinet Meeting Discusses
Crisis Gerard and Col.
House Talk It Over.
Tub Su.v present ftemclln, for the
first time in this country, a comprehew
sire nbjfrart o the article by Count
Hnut :u Rtventlow, Germany s IcatUnu
"firebrand journalist," which recently
caused the suspension of the Deutsche
Taacstcltuny. Because o the violent
antl-Amerlcnnisni voiced by the firliclB,
the author was trnrnccf by the author
ities that any repetition would result in
his being completely " ntiulrd" imiil the
end of the tenr. The majority of copies
of. the issue in which the article on
pe'arrrf tccre bought tip by the Herman
Government. The Article Is slpnllcmit
in that It shows the sort of opposition
American mediation, now so freely
hinted at on both sides of the ,1 Honor
Washington, Nov. 28. New repre
sentation lire about to be mudo to the
German Government by tho United
States concerning tho deportation of
Ilelgluu civilians for labor In Uermany.
Tho Administration Is seriously exer
cised over the matter nntl Is preparing
for Its next step with great delibera
tion, Imping to mako It effective with
out straining tho relations between the
two countries.
First Secretary of the Embassy drew
nt Ilerlin recently took up this question
Informally with the German Foreign Of
fice, and at tho State Department's di
rection said th.it a most unfavorable
Impression was being created In neutrnl
,r Ut flnd among the radi o section, o tfum.le. Particularly tho United State,
ii iii uniunj uifc t pfrnrt wiih iimi vjiillnir. however.
T..,riyn t i ikiuji it f'vniinw is iiil - . . . - - -
uiiruii'iK, n ivn
most fearless leader,
WHS0N AS "MEDIATOR."
By COt7.T KKXST 7.V RKVBSTI.OW
What arc the motives and nlms of
e policy of President Wilson? Nc
know! thim ;;ow; TheV are : to-day clear l,.r Mrrlln. Held.
Tin f'li nr pis' nr.il I ml ti-i f iitnrt tlm
Broker la In Kuropr. us cast our glances In retrospect, to the laU.Mt n,fi, f,. , fri), t,c Belgian
it. nu.dtt llfnm.t-'a nffVa fimmtitli' ' hi. tri n n I n i? nf the urcnt war. The V llson ,, eminent nti.l other Infnrmnt Inn In
Inquired for this broker, but found that I policy shows a straight, unbroken line tt(1 ),nnds f ,t,p state Department were, war. the Herman Minister for Foreign
he Is In Europe on business. The chief from the moment in wnicn. in raigianu s (Uyeu,) m to-day's Cabinet meeting, Affairs, llerr von Jngnw, said :
clerk left in chargo of the shipping Interest. American radio station vvere.nm Secretary Latnlng remained with I "Nevertheless the (lerman Govern
office said last night that he had been closed to Herman news and to J"""'" ' the President fur marly half nn hour ment. In older to furnish to the Amcrl
told to draw checks for the difference from Germany, down to the 'knockout , af,cr t1(1 r.tlioi- members left. Ambassador ' can Government evidence of Its con-
between the firm's bills and the Leggett , thus designated and triunipnanii) ao- (J),raril. lcro fot. nnaj conferences before dilatory attitude. Ins Issued orders to
The Foreign Otlice, in n note now on
Its way to Washington, replied that de
portation of the Ilelglans was a military
necessity and was being carried on in
accordance with international law gov
erning the treatment of populations In
conquered territory.
Washi.sv.ton, Nov. IS. Official con
firmation of the press reports of the
sinking of tho American steamship
Chemung by nn Austrian submarine re
ceived nt the Ktate Department from the
American Consul-deneral at Valencia,
Spain, again accentuated to-day the
gravity of the submarine situation In tho
relations of the United States with the
Central l'owers of Europe.
The destruction of the American ves
sel Is generally regarded as foreshadow
ing another crisis in tho relations of the
United Htntcs with the Austrian Govern,
ment, from which explanations of other
submarine episodes have long been
awaited.
The attitude of the United .States will
depend, of couisc, ujHin the circum
stances governing tho case, concerning
which a full report will be made by the
American Consul-Ocncrnl at Valencia.
The despatch states that the ship was
not torpedoed until the crew was ie
moved. This leads to the conclusion that
an examination was made of Its papers
and that the submarine commander
acted, deliberately In sending the vessel
to the bottom.
If theso conclusions are borne out by
later reports It seems that the crux of
this nspect of the submarine controversy
will be the contention of the Central
l'owers that they have the right to sink
tho Austrian Ciovcrnment would appear
to have would bo tho fact that the ves
sel carried more than B0 per cent, of
absolute contraband In ItH cargo.
sinking of the American sailing vessel
William P. Frye. at the outset of tho
Applies Also to Acceptances.
The statement applied not only to the
projicued British and French Treasury
bills but also to trading In acceptances
covering exports, especially to France.
It as explained nt the Federal reserve
bank th.it the drafts lssue1 by French
(mixing houses which bear tne accept
me of American banks had been freely
bought and were In entire accord with
the provisions of the Federal Heserve
let.
Hankers favoring the offering also
alii that the statement has hurt nny
oflerlng of foreign loans that has been
contemplated in the near future, and
th)' fear that If American bankers do
not crant sufficient credit to Great
Britain nnd France both countries will
oirt.ill their buying In this country. It
as estimated that the purchases here
by Itnth countiles now amounted to
o.oi t- than 10,000,000 a month.
HfTrct on V. S. Securities.
1 K. Hovensky. vice-president of the
National Hank of Commerce, discussed
Ihe I'Un ns follows:
"My objection to the principle laid
KEPT FLAG FLYING.
ClieniuiiK'a Captain Itefuseil (o
Lower "Old tilnry."
I.ONDON, Nov. 2S. Flyln-J the Amerl
caVi flag, which her commander formally
refused to lower, the American etcam
ship Chemung was sunk lo-day by a sub
marine off Cabo do Gata. or Cape Gata,
on'lhe Mediterranean roast of .Spain, ac
cording to despatches from Iteuter'w cor
respondent nt Valencia.
The description of the winking neetns
to indicate that the silbmarllio com
mander adhered to the? pledges made by
the German Government to the United
fritntes. The li was, on her way to
Italian ports with a cargo of cotton and
ftccl, which are contraband.
The crew had time to take to the life
boats. The ship then was sunk. The
KUbmarlnc lowed the lifeboats to within
five miles of the .Spanish const, then
abandoned them. The Kpanlsh steam
ship (liner picked up the crew nnd
lauded them nt Valencia.
A Madrid despatch to Paris thus
describes the sinking of the Chemung:
"A lively Incident preceded the sinking
of the vessel. The submarine's com-n-.mder
cave orders that the American
a vessel carrying absolute contraband j fl,,B should be lowered, anil sailors pre
Irrespectlve of the fact that It Is a lieu- pared to put them Into effect. They
tral vessel. met with stubborn resistance on the part
In the correspondence concerning the f the American captain. Duffy, and his
Von Falkcnliayn Pushes
Forward and Takes Two
Rail Terminals.
JASSV NEW CAPITAL
OF BALKAN COUNTRY"
German Encircling Move
ment Now Extends Over
250 3Iilc Front.
check, but had not been told why this . vertlsed by Wilson hlmt-elf of Germany
practice had been Instituted. In the submarine question.
After telling his story to Mr. .Swann 1 This straight political line pursues
nnd his assistant. Loeffler surrendered I ever the one object: to harm and to
11.140 In cash, a check for 700 .drawn paralvic the German Umpire In this war.
returning to Iterlln. and Col. K. M. House1 th German naval forces not to destroy
also talked over the plight nf the Ilel-, American merchantmen which have
glans during visits to the White lloue f loaded conditional contraband, even
nnd the State Department. It was said when conditions of International law are
on the nroadway Trust Company, one thereby to enrich and strci gtnen ne )( foUn(, M,nrc.f.!.i,,t, that for the pros-their voyage unhindered If It Is not pus-
automobile worth II.0O0 furniture for United Mates and to aid the Hrm i i a (,a!lt ,m(, ,,HI,lllccl interest ( ibl.. to take them Into port. On the
which he said he paid 35.000. a 16.000 Kmplte In I s conduct of the war In , (h(i ,,., p(lUt.. ,,, t mlst rp0rvi , sflf tmj
life Insurance policy, the stock and tlx- every direction nnd with all possible (jerar,i :,t Mr. Wilson's request ' rici t .lotrov vessels carrvlnc ubso-
crevv, who reruseii to nam uown me
colors, saying that If the ship had to be
sunk It would be with the flag flying.
"Oapt. Duffy maintained his ground,
nnd he and his men had some measure
nf stalsfactlon In seeing the flag nt
the masthead ns the waves finally en
gulfed their ship Capt. Duffy has mnele
a long report of the Incident to the
American Consul at Valencia, John It.
Putnam."
KDIPOLl'NG LIKELY
TO BE ABANDONED
Curtcn dc Arges and Ginr
gevo Captured by the In
vading Forces.
PA HIS. Nnr. 2t.The Ilnntanlaa
novernmrnt and diplomatic authorities
have left Ihieharest and gone to Jaj.
neeorillng to u llaias despatch from
llurliare.t.
Jus)- p nlinnt I'no miles north,
northeast of llueliurrst, near the It nn.
fttan frontier.
tures in his cigar stands, which he ap
praised nt 110.000, und Jewelry which he
valued at IS.OO0.
When arraigned before Magistrate
Marsh In the Jefferson Market police
court he pleaded guilty and was held
without ball.
32,000 IN N. Y. GET
BIG WAGE RAISE
RAISE FOR 10,000
STANDARD OILTIEN
Clothing Manufacturers Give! New Jersey Corporation An-
to W Per Cent. Increase
to Workmen.
Ileglnnlng on December U. 32.000
workmen employed by the American
Clothing Mnufacturers Association will
recelvo wage Increases of from 35 to 10
per cent. At least 160,000 persona In the
families of these workers will benefit di
rectly from this raise.
In a statement Issued last night by
Herbert C. Ansorg. president of tho as
sociation, It was said that this step hnd
been taken In order to meet the Increased
cost of living, and would apply to all
branches of workers In the trade.
it U.MII I'ost the members of the ns-
d'mit by tho Federal lleserve Uoard Is socatlon 18,000,000 annually to tint this
.oily concerned with its effect on the
market for our securities abroad. We
hive borrowed hundreds of millions
alno.nl, and will need hundreds of
millions more for the development of
the vast country In the Interior. Now,
there arc four ways In which Europe
can ray for what Is being bought from
u, Europe may export goods to us,
or send us gold, or sell us back our own
securities, or sell us her notes and
bonds.
"At the present time Kurope cannot
envilbly pay for goods bought from us
by esjiorts of other goods. We don't
sant a Hood of gold. Then. If we re
fuse fi take Kurope's evidences of debt,
lliero tem.ilns the method of "repurchas
ing our on securities.
"Hut If thefe securities are sent back
In large volume, and the Kuropcan mar
kets almost denuded of them, when the
dr is over those Issues scarcely will
ne quoted on the Kuropcan exchanges.
The market for thorn there will be
rarruw. and no Investor cares to buy a
eeiirlty for which thero Is an Inactive
or narrow market. So nfter having
pent three-quarters of a century In
building up a maiket for our Issues
Hnfi.nl we shnll ourselves destroy It at
blun And should-wo want to borrow
gam in the years to come wo would
have to reestablish that market at great
cost and pains."
Votes n l.egnl Investment.
nucme I,amb Itlehards, State Super
lntn lent nf Hanks, did not feel called
Hem to make any statement regarding
the notes. At his otllco It was said
tii" notes are legal Investment for tho
trust eorpanles of this State, but the
smnijnt of them that wuy be taken by
"v one nst tut on U ni ted to 25
noiiiiccs Wage Increase
for December 1.
means.
As month after month rolled by In
the great conflict the solidarity of the
two Anglo-Saxon Towers became more
and more evident, n solidarity In all
matters and questions pertaining to the
German Kmplrc as their opponent, nnd
consequently aiming at Its being har
assed and paralyzed.
HradlriK In game Direction.
Beyond and apart from these there
are of course many questions nnd Issues
In which the two Anglo-Saxon Powers
stand diametrically opposed to one nn
other nnd In which their Interests con
flict; but those are of future concern,
for the time after the war. This war
finds them In all main questions heading
In the same direction and eloeiy unuen
i
I il.rprrfl his ol.'in to leave fin New York
and will see him to-morrow, The Am
bassador will be given the President's
peronal view on the Helglan subject as
well as concerning ho latest develrji
ments In submarine warfare. State De
partment olllclals admit that the Gov
lute contraband wherever i-ueh destruc
tion Is permissible according to the pro
visions of the Declaration of London,"
It Is believed here that the Austrian
defence will be based upon a similar
assertion of right. In the case of the
Frye. sunk by a German cruiser, the
eminent l proceeding with the greatest German Government fell back upon
difficulty In endeavoring to help the un
fortunate Ilelglans.
.Not Making Martyr.
Amstki'.ham, via London. Nov. :R. "I
am not In llelgmm to martyrlie the pop
ulation nor mete out punishment, but
only to further the IntetnMs of Germany j
III IOC IIHI-l 1 .illll'l .'ll.-ttf, .,.., r...,.
Gen. Ilaron von ltling. Military Gov
ernor of Iliigium, in an lute-view pub
I'russlnn-Amerlcan treaties nearly a
hundred years uld which gave them the
right to sink a vessel carrying contra
band with the obligation of making full
reparation theiefor.
In the case of Austria there Is no such
treaty The only hash of Justltlcatlon 1 of cotton and I A3 tases of Iron wire.
The wages of 10.000 employees In the Kngilsh money,
layonne. ,:.l,abc,l, and C.aremont re-
neries of the Standard OH Company of (1(.nt Wilson's opponents were qu
liwrrase Into effect. President Ansorg
estimated the total output of the manu
facturers In the organization la worth
$123 000.000, or vv;ucn tu leoai ou,uu,
000 Ik paid for labor. The annual cloth
ing output In New York city Is believed
to ho about $210,000,000 and tho total
number of persons employed here In the
tinde Is about ou.uuu.
No matter whether the workers are
affiliated with the union or no:, said
President Ansorg. they will draw the
Incrensed wages next month. The 32.000
affected by the action of the associa
tion are three-quarters of them men
nnd boys and one-quarter women and
K'"lnasmuch as most of the tailors In
this branch of the Industry are employed
by contractors." said Mr. Atisorg, 'each
member of 'the American Clothing Man
ufacturers Association will make ar
rangements with his respective contrac
tors during the early part of December
so as to oiublo them to meet the granteu
Increase to their workmen.
The figures are imwu uyn mr
ttay
fineries
New Jersey will be raised on Friday, De
cetnber 1. laborers will be advanced
from (2.20 to 12.50 for an eight hour
day, skilled labor will lie advanced 23
cents a day, and workers now receiving
less than 12.20, most of whom are ap
prentices, will be Increased, according
to the official announcement made In 26
Broadway yesterday, "In proportion to
the Increase In common labor rate."
The company's statement says:
"Recognition of the Increased cost of
living Is responsible for the change In
the wage scale as well as the main
tenance of the established policy of the
company In keeping pace with or ahead
of the wage rate In other Industrial es
tablishments. In the present Instance
the schedule that affects unskilled labor
is In advance of nearly all big manu
facturing concerns, common labor receiv
ing 3114 cents nn hour for eight hours,
against 23 to 27 V? cents an hour for nine
or ten hours.
"Willi the ndvnnce previously made In
the wane scale, and without reference to
the reduction of the hours of labor, this
brings the Increase In vvngcM paid since
August, 191ft, to a total nf 37 per rent.
"In addition to these advances In Sep
tember. 191!i, the Stand. ml Oil Company
adopted the eight hour day basis with
time and one-hulf for overtime. This
chnnge In working hours wns made with
out loss to employees In dally wages and
resulted In au Increased cost to the com
pany of 23 per cent.
The combined Increase in wnges lald
tne same uireciiuo aim umn. . , umh ... .k..-.-.. ... - - t
ttrsliles. it Is necessary to recall, so llshed In the 1 lusseldorf Tunc Hull. He
as to make possible a proper valuation Bd J .
nt the tin-sons und iiiK'stlons nt Issue. . "We ate doing tlu m-curding to our
' that Wilson was elected by virtue or a
strong participation of the British tlnan
Iclal world, that Is. to speak plainly, with
,-.t has been
and Presl-
tultc Ins
tilled In ascribing his uttltude In the
Mexican question shortly nfter his in
auguration to obligations springing I
r-,,r,i n, fart th:ii Kn-.ilsh money had '
bct Judgment and mi-clrm . I con
sider that I am st-rvin;; the Lnipetvr and
the falhetland lo the best advantage
when 1 cau-e the least t,Kslblt- German
'blood to How here nnd the fewest pos-1
; slble Germins to he withdrawn from ourl
i trout Hues to watch over Belgium." .
LILLE EXILES HACK. '
$4,000,000 TO TEACH 2 ZEPPELINS LOST
i
GIRLS MOTHERHOOD I IN RAID ON ENGLAND!-,;;
Mrs. Lizzie M. rainier Leaves
Fortune for Kstablisliincnt
, of School.
LoNPo.v, Nov. 28. Von Falkcnliayn
pushed his armies forward nt both ends
of the Kmnanlan line to-day. So do
ing, he captured two railhead, Ciirtca
do Arges nt the north and Cilurgevn tit
tho south.
Tlie nn.- of men nnd gtm.H lie lias
thrown across the country from the
mountains at tho north to tin- Danubo
on the south was methodically drawn n
little longer by tl.eso moves; It became
the greater p.ut ut n circle which If
completed would run through Bucha
rest. Glurgevo Is on tho Danube, almost
due pouth of llueliurrst tint! scarcely
forty miles fiom tho llumanlan oapl
tal by the direct lull line nf which It la
the head. It Is tlltectly opposite tho
Bulgarian rlty nf Kiistcliuk nnd
twenty or tliitty tulles fin Out cast
than Zlmtiltzca, the Danube town cap
tin cd by the Germans yesterday.
XimnlUcu Is the terminus of a brunch
railroad, (ilurgevo of a main line.
urtca do Arges Is tho northern ter
minus of a rallioad from Bucharest to
the Transylvnnlau Alps. The line rum
I from Bucharest to I'ltescl thtn forks,
Hroi.-I.l Down in Air Hattlesi 1,0 ArK0
Vnftise of ('bi-liinnu. i
The Chemung sailed from New York,
on November S for Genoa and Naples
and Mopped nt Fuynl, Azores, on No
vember 2". She was owned by the llarby
Steamship Company of New York.
The crew list of the Chemung filed
with custom) olllcers here shows that
only ten of the men on board. Including
Capt. Duffy, were Americans, Ihe others
being Greeks, But'lans, Spaniards and
Mexicans.
The cargo of the Chemung, ns listed
In the manifest tiled at the Custom
House, follows In part:
Five thousand six hundred nntl seventy
plates of niflter, S54 tons of pig Iron.
300 coils if i epper wire, 5,140 pieces of
flipper. Sfi liatrcls of copper! Jon Pales
Over Sea ami Their Crews
Terish.
worldly wise nnd shrewd American.
stanch adheient of the. Idea of Anglo- t..lnl(,r ,, llilcI thete : Cti to August l.'frnm Michigin.
Saxon world domination. II Is natural i , , ,. ,,,, , -,.u ...m .ir
HIliK About Capital.
Them has been hard lighting for tho
possession of Klnipolung ever tinco tlm
Germans and Austrlans forced their
j way through the mountain passes, llus
Lonpon. Nov. 2. Two Zeppelins and i slan leenforcemcnts have stiffened Ilu
their entire crews was the price Gcr-1 manlan telstanc at that point, so It
, , , , , ... ha-, not been captured. But Curtea d
many paid this morning for a raid on UK(,S frm Bucharest llmi
Durham npd the notth Midland counties ;im iv inilhead, seems of as much stra
wiilch resulted In the death of one tegle value ns Klmpoliing. Kach town
it niinut tiRiny miles unrinwcsi or
I'm is were put on the market many of
'he SiMtn Institutions Invested heavily
n "inn, and the Attnrne-Geueiii was
"'ii fni ,-i ruling us to whether In-
'istinent In these bonds could be greater
.i.i, r hn United States Government
In its report on the 'men's fBcl"r' mad' since August, 1!IS, and the adoption nf
clothing industry, section 31. 1016, and ,nfl cKnl nur llliy therefore represent n
ivwin Inner trade Investigation. total Increase of Isbor cost to the com-
"As heretofore this no doubt will cause Iianj. o( 60 ,)er t.,nf,'.
other clothing manufacturer who i are
.TwrAii SUCCEEDS JOHN D JR., IN FUND.
nrc.resslvo lea-J and advance the wages .
of their workmen In Hko manner.' Ir. Vincent lo Head Itnrkefrtler
n oar d In May.
. . nneenvrvp
KAISER S Ulr l XU fMOUian. nr aonrge U. Vincent, president of
. the University of Minnesota, will retire
Will He a Special German 1 rlniea from tnilt po,t on Mny 16 next ,n ,)(?
Kdltlnn nt American Anlhors. come president of tho Kockefellcr
Foundation, succeeding John D, Rocke
feller, Jr., who will become chairman of
tho board of trustees, a newly created
office
Mr. Rockefeller will abandon the pres.
Idency because the enlarged scope of the
foundation's activities has made It ad
visable for the Incumbent to devote all
his time to the work,
.i loiml In his election. ' (.rrinilllt
We In Germany, unrortunateiy. nro ,..., n..,,,,,.... ......h i Mtvr.ol.A, L. I.. Nov s More thin
not et quite free from the hallucination '"" . "epurt. it I r. in h. ( , onn non for ,,, ,.ftablvhment of a
that Wilson Is a world remote scholar. Bkiii.is (by wireless), Nov. 2S The . m.ithei hood -school for girls who have
Wo allow ourselves to bo deceived by I ovt i sens Ncwtt Agency says : , parsed ten jears of age Is provided In
iIih airs of the scholar and of the man, "Areonliii! to iiroinlis aiven to tho ! ilm will of Mrs. Lizzie M. Palmer of
of ptlnclples, not realizing that tliee ate ii!,aitiits of Lille and other towns In , Great Neck. L. I., who died In July last.
..U....1.I.U t.nlil.wl u'ltlel, hliles n , . ,.. .. .... . .... ..- ...i.t r rt-t it- i
ni,n-n ... oc'cuiueti leri itories in i ranee tne im- .--ne was nu- niunn m i inmi.is . . . , , ,., ........u ,.,
lowini; iniiiioer oi i'itmius n.ive necn I'.mner. niineii i inivo .-i.m:-, .--uimiui i ... .. i iiiil-iuii ri-i.
siigm mnirrini tiamage. i uc .miiiiii..uj Btltlsh commmders, studvlng th
1 '.H it, 1,'J'.i3 poisons w ho were either In- The will directs that the home be i announced late to-night that a German , map to-night, said Kltnpnlung no longer
airplane earning two naval lieutenants. I" or any uo to tho ltumanlms nnd
, . , , Itiissiatif, and It was predicted the toivn
who had with them a large scale map of jM,n ,)p al)aIldula,j ., concentrate de-
Iindon, bad been Drought down by the fences nt i'ltescl. vvhete this main linn
French near Dunklik. I begins. Thus it was ailmltltd that the
The two Zeppelins were brought down ( tjerniaii comiiiaiuler by a quirk strokn
by airplanes, Duo of them fell within i )i.im gained the h.nnn object .is If he had
full view of watchers on the Durham beaten the stubborn resistance offcied
coast. The other, damaged inland,
enough, though, that Wilson lllg-s lo Mc of wotklng or whi-e rcmovil built In Detroit. Mich. The Institution
pose as the world "'n, .cl!0"p',,ll from their home hail proved especially ' I to educate girls and young women to
prlnclp es. for that can only help hlni brglnnlin of October take up the cares of motherhood and
I until the mliMIe nf November '.Tl jier-1 wifehood The will ONplaliis
Wilson's I'liinnelal Delit. I sons, mostly women, whose work was , testatrix hoped to start the w
, , i no longer icqulred. her death, but there Is uothl
But cine must not forge Ills llna.icla ,,, ,U)t n,,tary authorities ! the p ipers on file to show w
"T1 n,1!?..!.! 1 i I . it ll, h, ! received an order to transport back had r.-illy started her project.
until ihe ml.MIe nf -November ii.fi? l j,er. 1 wifehood The will ONplalns that the
sons, mostly women, whose work was , testatrix hoped to start the woik before
titer death, but there Is nothing among
i tlm tviners on file to show whether she
connections
Great Britain, nor tlie tact mat nere ; . , . ,,,.. The trustees named In the will are ill
British nuance anil nrniMi po ii go , . . .,,,, nf ...i,, ,,. rn,,,,t tn , nrrv on the work, but If for ! turned and raced for home, but was pur-
hand In hand, and that for this very i
slay In their new resiliences, The trans- any reason they are unable to do so then I sued and destroyed nine miles out nt sea.
at Kimpolung.
1'ioni one end of the German line, at
,l.rt (..it lei' i.t I tin I -filled tittu ''I'1? HI III H ll " I ' i-.iu-ni.-rri, lie irilllM- .Hl I ' f" ' ,,,.-,- - . v , .. i, , ...... , . v , , i i h - "hhi, i v i-ui t un
reason tie poiic oi m Circuit Court of Wayne county.: London was still excited over the Arges. I". toiishly, 250 miles ns a courier
? .'.bv inoiouhiiij I...IUUIHII rt( ol(t ,,Xl.m,Vl,t. necordanco with .Michigan, Is directed to carry out the'; news of the northern raid when an air-'might follow tho route behind th
'ii.u Sim.. Mr Wilson Hut M iv ,h" promises given them nt tho time nf plan, I plane. Hying at great height, appeared j -.iriiiit-s. But from Glurgevo to Curtea
shortly nfter' lie had publicly eulogized ' "','11' removal." The residuary etate Is to be devoted over the city and dropped six bombs. ; ,,. .iges In tall through Bucharest Is
knocklnir dnwii " of Germanv. made , i" "'' --- i",lllr i-.i" i,.u -" '' '"' "inn inn
a stieech before n large assembly 'of the ' MOVIE MAN ON U-BOAT. 'I'' "''" 11,0 estate owned by Mis. nelsons were Injured, while the material the German ring about the capital been
. ........... . tiin.nH nt llr.ql v..tf mill rirnliiirfliiii Iti .1 ... .... i l.,1.1 li'ii'.i i-nn.mi'il in III- ' .
peace League, in wnicn no uecinreti ms i.huki .... ....... ; , r " '
,itrn.iniitinii in Hike nn .-nereeili- n.iri , ... ... IMIihlnaii total much more than 4,0A0,-. onlly of biol.eu windows.
in n,e i.enee neentlntlnns ns Ireslilent i MnUliia" or isiilp iimiI lloslnnes ni) n-,e other beiliests ate compara- It was tenorled tho airplane was a'
nt llu t'nlleil Sillies. The Cnlleil States. ' WlllehliiLr. MllC V small,
liie will piovnies tir.it tno .Meruit or was a c.uerul copy or one. tnai is,. ,,,.t,n. heavy llshtlng Is gong on ea t
marine Just before their t-hip was sunk
by the underwater boat Is telated by a
witness in the Temps to-day
Tho German orTTcer when he boarded
the vessel (ilcked out slx inen ns hostages,
one n huperrap.'n represeniing owners
t. .in I-nmlonl. Nov. 28. Km-
P' r 'in of Its capital and surplus, Just i pcror William will send to -President
' the case of obligations of a cor- Wllonn ns a Christmas present a de Ul"e
inr.i- on or of any foreign Government, i ,,,,, American authors specially lire-
... .... . . . ' r ' . . .. .... t.n.... .i , tg. llni'nl
tne jriDu.uuiviun Aiigio-i-iencn oared, primcn ami i
Printing vvoras in ,''"
i, uiiilnnest newspaper At l.sf. i ne
German submarine Deulschlnnd. the
newspaper says, win ini
"he I'nltrd States on her next trip acrosa
l'i was that since the bonds are sepa- . Kmiwror Williams Chris n as gui 10
mie as well as Joint obligations of the, i0pi Benedict will bo a Bible magnin
Hrli and I'rench Governments State cently Illuminated and lmuntl.
'in tuiions might Invest In them lo
t"'f .iinount of 50 per cent, of their
cai t.ii ari surplus, Tho Attrirnoy-Gen-im
ruled otherwise,
Aji the matter stands now, If, for In
itmre a Kink has 20 tier cent, of Its
"irMits in Anglo-French bonds, It can
''w-i another 5 per cent, In either
lh''.Kn or French Ticasury bills. The
' niistance that the Stato Institutions,
ii.ii' 1 iil.irly those In this city, have In-
-'"ii heavily nut only In tno Angio
WlUon at )! for Kmperor.
vv.sitiNiiTOS. Nov. :s. I'lfsldent Wll-
MtvNr.Al'ol.iH, Minn.. Nov. 28. Dr.
George II. Vincent for six years lias been
president of the University of Minnesota,
Dr. Vincent said In asking his rclense
by the regents that "If it were a ques
tion nf a call from another university It
... . 1 Aniiei liti.1i mass to would be. easv to decline." A summons.
1 .Jiebritetl to-morrow In St. Patrick's howevr, to have some share In the de
nhi.reli here by Cardinal Gibbons In . velopment nf a unlono Institution, to
Irv of the late Kmperor Francis I eoopeiMln In working out plana for the
memory Austria. Hungary. Secretary , "promotion of human welfare at home
? .. .mi mnniliTs nf the diplomatic and abroad tvppeals to one s imagination,
n. not connected with the Entente 1 I have decided I
allies also will attend
b inds but In other securities or 1 ...... V..T .;i-,.'I.OKin. RCaOBTR
llrlialn nnd Frnnre, It was pointed ThV h ' KUmlngo. '?".,"'";
fui, is likely lo limit iha.rount of .ho Jtl-Mo
Cuii'iiiuvii o',( i'ouiIA I'uyc.
vitatlon,"
must accept this In-
ARK VOl) RUN DOWN T
Oswey'i i'nrt Wine A Olive nil will hiilld
you up. 11,00 at your ileiilrr nr 13 riillm
A It Nbisuu 8ti N. T, I'liont 1001 Colt.
Jtdi;
he asserted, Is more and more vitally
Interesled In nn early conclusion of the
war, and when the end of the conllirt
was near the I'nlted States had exactly
the same Inleiest In the ptospectlve
peace 11s the belligerent nations.
These are In themselves Important ut
terances, They tiiow that Wilson tiro,
poses and wishes to bring nbout Ameri
can participation In tho peace negotia
tions through mediation.
From the moment, however, that the
negotiations have begun America's
mediating role ceases, and she Is to
pattlclpate In the negotiations Just like (,,. of the entire proceeding,
each or the lienigercnt parties, that Is, 1 ..ynti stem to be nnuojfd." said the
solely In her own. America s. Interest. neriuan captain In French to the super
That Is Mr. W llson s Idea, Now we can cnrcn, nH the bitter glnnced to the
.... ..... ...... - ', 1 1 1 operator or tne camera,
or a nn 1011 wnicn nas no actively par-, "Natutallv I would rather be i,.
lied the
Ithout
n i..n ...in ,1 '
on an eipial footing with the belllger
complete'!
A mil tier Itciail t i-iint-eil.
British liiachinc, captured on the Smiiiue, ruiiher developing 'ho encircling of
,. v , , ne win piuviui-s 111.11 mi ..u-riin or was 1 ca e ui 10 i m one. iuu , t ion heavy llithtlng is go inr on e 1 1
of ure -I ,"'l.e n.;; io,oIn:t ,,"'l,,'r ""n .TrU.1.", S""mwl "' BOt ""''"i V Kunpolung In tho'taho a v't ley
of the steam, r S.11 Hem. rdo, bound Sllot,i h ,all tialn .voung girls "w ith patrols unsuspected Sue. ess In this ouarlor will mean tlii
from I'l.lladelphl i, ha-J moving pictures reforence to lilting them men-I Much satisfaction Is expressed over ' " ' u , ",.,orl rallro.ul lluXiest
lal.cn of them nhoatil the (.ernian Mib- ' . 11 .- morally, nhvslcally and lellgiously the destruction ol til" Zeppelins, which
for the discharge of the functions and brought the seme to seven ilesttnyed In
(etvice of wlfehnod and niotherhniid nnd I llngland and six loon- In other tlelds of
In the m.inaccinent. supervision ana in- operation inning ivnt
niliatlon of homes."
The will beiiuealhs f. "O.onn to Wlnnl-
fred Palmer, wife of Harold Palmer, and
When the steamer blew up there ' jm.ono to each of the following: Mrs.
was 11 moving pletuio operator on the
bridge of tile submarine who took a pic
or a un ion wnicn nas no actively par- , "Natuiallv I would rnlher be a
thipated In the war would be something 1 nri,i mes iiw.iv from vou " lenlle,
riiuTsiaU. oV;ff1!rs0'"y f,"P,,aRllH I -SpiWO." om shue M
rnVr iiUiSI-,- - rts.-ard t,. our feelings, taken ur
Betlla Boothby, Lagrange, 111. : William
V Livingston, .lo-hu.i M Goodwin.
The nftlclal report of the raid follows:
"A iiMinber nf hostl.e nltshltis ap
proached l 'i' nnitbeast const of ihigland
between i 11 and 11 o'clock last night
Bombs were dropped at various places
In Vorkshne and Dm ham The damage
r!.nri?ri 11 Green nnd Lmnr.v W. Clark 1 Is believe il to he Might
of Dettolt; Thomas P. Whlttlcr of Sigl- 1 "Duo nlishlp, nttacked by airplanes of
nnvv, Mich., and Thomas D. Merrllt of , the llnyal 1'l.vlng Cotv. was brought
Seattle, Ten thousand dollars Is willed j down In tlanies into the sea oh the coast
to the First Congleg.itl'Uial L'ultai Inn . of Dili ham. Auothei nil ship crossed Into
Church of lietrnlt and $5,000 to the Anl- the North Midland counties and dropped
cuts and throw her whole weight Into
the scales In favor of lieu own Interest
in any question that may be discussed -anil
this without being In any way bound
or restricted, not even by her previous
part as 11 mediator,
Has a If, S. Would Threaten.
Thus, America wishes to be In n post
lion to make her power felt by threats,
by Immediate ei'oii'iinli' vressure. &i.
From tho German point of view, the
first ohstnele to suih 1111 arrangement
lies In the expressed contention of Presi
dent V'l'min to conclude peaio at a gen
eral conference,
Th" onferenco would, therefore, pre
sent thin picture: That to our present
enemies, who In the peace negotiations
will light us with the same zeal ns they
are now fighting us with the weapons of
warfare, thero would bo added a new
enemy who In the negotiations would
have to be taken fai mole srilously und
would be far more dangerous than If ho
faced us us an open foe on the battle-fUia.
A despatch from London Augut 12
annoiiuceil that Ihe British steamer San
Bernardo, n vessel of 3,!07 tons, had
been torpedoed In the North Sen.
THANKFUL TO AMERICANS.
"Chronicle" -n Munitions From
I'. S. Snveil tin- tlllr..
I.ONPOV, Nov. 2!i The Dully Chrn.
trie 111 nil tilltotlnl to-ihy tehukes the
.lfnniliii ''isf for that newspapers edi
torial .vestt-tlay, haraclerlzlng as a
"cheap gibe'' lis trferencn to Ametlcau
Interest lu tlm war being only to make
money out of It.
"If American Interest hail not taken
the fot in of making money out of It,"
Miys the Dally Chronicle, "tho war would
likely havn been over, ns the Allies
would not have had any munitions to
carry It on,"
mal Welfare Association of Detroit.
DIET saUAD SETS RECORD.
Meals Have Cost Only lilt S-:t Cents
a liny Per Person.
Out-Ann, Nov 2S - 1 lie tllrt ntuad . breaking
tho
seuing of another rallro.nl to Buchaiest,
Five rail lines run from that capital,
which with their branches reach ten
terminals nt the frontier: Predeal, Kim
polung, Curtea d Arges, iirgu Jill, Or
ova, Cnlafat, V.lmnllzeo. GiurKOVo, t)l
tenltza and Constattza. Of the ten tho
Germans now hold nine So far as Is
known, Oltenhza Is not et in their
grasp The Prahova Valley lighting Is
Intended to push down the lino from
Predeal toward Plocset and the capital
Meanwhile, tlm Uuinaiilaii army vvlilili
had been holding Oimivu nppaiently Is
about fo b given its coup do urace. An
nlllcial statement fiom I'm llukarlnn
Wnr lllllce to-day Mated tliat Its troops
Ii. ui criisneii tun Hauimo .11 i,.innvo. i,nni
bombs ut v.vlous places On her return
..t... .. .. ..;,.. ..1,-. 1 1...
;,,!, ,.., nr 11,,. lto a! M, nc foi-ns .nl' Palanka and Vldln, all thrsn points
guns
"She appears to have hee'n dnmnged,
for the last pail of the Journey was
made at very slow speed She was un
able to reach the coast before day was
Near the Norfolk coast she
In crfecllng re.
rrNKIH'RHT IIOTKI.S AMI r.or.F it sun
row open, Inq. Ststiusrd Air Uu,MltBwtr,
Jiv.
which Is undergoing a two weeks test 11 tma i-enl I v klieeeeileil
to help establish an erntinmlr.il standard I nalrs and' was nrmwdlnir esst nt liluh
of living and tn prove tint palatable mid Peed and at au altitude of moro than
nutritious meals can be served nt a cost s.tiiio feet when she was, nttacked nluo
pot to exceed 40 cents a day has been miles out at sea by four mnchlnes of the
fed for n week at a net cost for food, Boyal Naval Air Service and nn armed
consumed of 33 2-3 cents a person each trawler and was brought down In flames
day. at u :1s A. M
The first week of Ihe test was finished
to-nisht, A statement or rood con
sumed, purchased nt rnndom In retail
stores In tho downtown district, shows
that the total cost for food for twelve
persons was I2S.28.
To-morrow's menu :
llreakfast Baked apples. rrneh tnsit,
cot". . , t
l.uniii limn eliowder, corn hrit snit
hulter. Bunfi'J pudding, lemon ssiies, tes.
tMimi-r Spiigli'tll iup. meat plo. sue
rolnili, bread and butter, prune Jelly, tea,
The Miuad has gained a total of
twenty-seven pounds on the diet.
VI- nnisli'n KllntVM In A' COmt drink
from Infancy to old at. Aictrtlssmtnl,
Ing behind tlm Atiftro-tieitnaii front.
Aiipniently tlie aim Is to clear the south
west coiner of Wsllaclna of tlm ltu
luanlnn ttoops which at o the tcniiiants
of th" Clrsova 111 m.
The Bulgarian statement adds that
strong counter attacks dtovc back tho
nusfllaiiH In tiortlons of the ImliriiilJ.i ami
that nt other points on the hue llusstail
attacks wero "easily tepub-cd" lltp.
slnns and Itnmnnlans leport the Do
brudjv situation ns unchutiRid.
Grrninn Statement.
The ofUclnl statement of the Berlin
War Oftlrn to-day sas;
Front of Archdtiko Joseph, eastern
German Admit I.naa.
liKiti.lN, via fiajville, Nov r8. A Ger
man official statement on the air raid ' Trans) Wanton front There was nn in-
rciins; 1 erense 11 local art llcry Oct v tv. Hsc.
"on tho night of November 27-28 aev-
eral Oennan naval alrshljia Micressfully
bombed blast furnaces and Industrial es.
tabllehmenti tn middle Fugland. At
several places conflagrations were ob
served. "An airship was shot down by the en
emy near Scarborough and another has
not returned, so that It must be consid
ered loM. The remaining alrshVpa re
turned and landed."
eral Itiw-Man reconnoitring dcta. hmcnts
were repulsed,
"The Alt lion been cinsscl. Further
operations have been Initiated, begum m
with engagements that resulted in mi"
stantlal successes for us, Cuilc.i du
Angea Is in our pomns-Mmi.
"Army group nf Field Marshal vni
Markenaen In DohrudJ.t thrio lias been
moderate fielding nctlvity
"The Danubo army lias ealncd cround,
