-If."
Service for You
Let T-D Information Bureau
Answer Your Questions
fJid|motti> STimesflisijatclj
3VST 2m 3
\V
A^ORC
SmoppimO
,+* Uats
>?? ?v j-~
J>t READ oul<
C^' xmaS ADS
G6th YEAR
> 01.1 iik an
M MliKit :i:m
Crisis Leads Housewives' League
to Call Meeting to Con
sider Boycott.
COMMODITIES STILL SOARING
Pinch of Rising Market Felt
Keenly by Salaried and
Working Classes.
Willi the pi lees ?r foodstuffs in
???any Inst;. noes ;,t ,|ir |,|K|?.8, |PVC,
sim e the War I to I w or- n t lio States, and
with many of tho linger cities attempt
hig to force tlir high of ?crf.ssi
' i'-14 downward t lirouuh I ??*? operation
of lioyi? o 11 s ami ??inhaIn- the i-on
*(imor, a special meeting ..f the exe.-,,.
tlvr . on,mitt..,, of i|,r. Kii'hinonil House
wives' League has I..-on ,;,llod
eider tho advisability of su?-li action in
Richmond. Tho nicotinic will ho held
I'riday afternoon at t o'clock at the
homo of tho president. Mrs, Stuart
Michaux. 92B West Pranklin Street
< 'flicops ,,f ij,,, league have boon
watch lug 'loi*<d.\ for several day* tho
trend of the movement l? New Vork.
'hhiic.. whore drastic
stops- have bo,M taken h> city officials
and others j,, ;,r, ,.rfl,r, Jo
abnormally high prices which, it i*
< harKffl. are the result. in part, of
attempts t., "cor tie r" tl;o ,uppl\ of
tnanj articles ,.f f.?,,j.
< %i.i. roil i oi.i.ow ?
M-:\\v ok N (tit t-'Ol.lt Al I IIIN
'I lie special meeting ?f tho evccutiv
??"riimit tee ..f t In Richmond llouse
Miw,s' Leag no was called ? e*terda.v
after advices from Norfolk had heeii
received t e lliiiir of the boy o t t s do.
? Inroij itl t ha* ci'.v against turkeys and
eggs. Theso commodities are retailing
iti that Hty for 29 cunts per dozen for
*"ggs an,I i jo ."?! cents per ponnd fo:
turkey. Tho probability of ?ti11 further
advance for. e.l the Norfolk as: octal Ion
taK^ art ir?s?.
I'rloos for turkoys quoted in Rich
mond '.o>tf rilawere somewhat less
than thlco f..r t lie seaport city. but. on
tho other hand, the retail pricc of eggs
was subst antially higher in Richmond
th,in :n Norfolk. The more moderate
quotations nil turkey* u. f re tho direct
result of a temporarily well-supplied
market in Richmond, tho supply ex
ceeding the demand in tin* <ity.
^ c have < ailed this meeting." said
Mrs. Mtrhau.v last night. "for th.c pur
pose of discussing and considering The
advisability of declaring boycotts.
Such action has been taken In other
cities of tho country, and wo have
committees now gathering Information
which will ho presented lo the com
mittee at the meeting Friday.
<?>MMITTi:i: HOP K.N
TO lir.|,IK\[.; SIT! ATION
"The committee will give a most
deliberate consideration ff the prob
lem--to the causes and to the rem
edies?and we are in hopes that we
may relievo the situation'.'"
Definite action is expected to be
taketi. since increasing complaint has
been heard in re-on*, weeks against
the steadily rising prices of various
foodstuffs, and it is pn.liable that
action against other commodities
I than turkeys and eggs will be taken
hy the league
The Richmond Housewives* League
has a membership at this time of more
than 35\ and each member is a large
buyer of various commodities. Declara
tions of boycotts by this organization
would undoubtedly be felt j? Rich
mond. and officers of the league are
firm in the belief that they will find
many housewives in Richmond not
members of the organization that will
give them all the assistance possible
in the attempt (o reduce tlie prices of
oomnif'ditles In this city.
VKAHI.Y l-:\ Kit Y COMltOIIITI
H\s i\<'itl-:am-*.11 i\ nu( i;
The price of practically every item ?
re,]u. red by a family has shown great i
advances in recent months, and condi
tions. It is admitted, have in many
respects become critical Not only have
foodstuffs increased from 2.". to 7.1 per
cent over the quotations prevailing *a
.? ear ago. but clothing, shoes and prac
tically every other commodity have,
likeu lse made heavy advances. The
ratio of living expenses to salaries and
wage? of the average householder is
far greater, it is said, than at anv time
in recent years.
While the rost of living has been
soaring, wages in many lines and
among office employees have remained
practically stationary. Certain classes
of labor are receiving to-day probably
1 the highest wages ever paid for that
'?lass of work, yet the Increased earn
ings have not been correspondingly as '
large as have the advanced commodity
prices. The average American is suf
fering on all sides.
VN ith the winter months just ap
proaching. reports are current of
probable famines in roal The retail
price of this commodity has advanced
from 12 to Ji p,?r to,, Many factors
are said to he the cause of this ad-,
vance. and the blame is placed on many
shoulders and denied with equal em
phasis by all concerned.
< OhD-STORAGK IM.ANTS
iiRt.n i'ahti.v itrcsroxMni.K
The hoarding of foodstuffs in cold
storage plants is held to he partly re- j
sponsible for the preSf?nt high prjce}. |
In many of the larger cities of the |
country where drastic steps are being1
taken In an effort to relieve the situa-1
(ton. especially in Chicago, it |s j
charged that thousands of eggs have I
been placed in cold storage for no '
other reason than to keep the prices '
up. That such a condition exists in !
Richmond is not generally believed, hut i
the high prices in other cities are nat
urally in this city.
The Times-Dispatch received several
days ago a telegram from the Pitts
burgh Chamber of Commerce, stating
that 1t was investigating charges that
various commodities were allowed to \
decay rather than to be sold for normal
price*. Similar charges have been
made In other cities, and numerous
official Investigations are under way.
Housewives Begin
Boycott on Eggs
first Step in New York City's
l'ight to Reduce High
Cost of Living.
1 Hv I'rw I
Ni:\V YORK, November 1'S. ? New
Y<?rk I'lly's tight to rndiicn tin- high
cost of living began in earnest lo-day
with a boycott oil eggs by I liousa tula
of housie wives'. This wub followed
with a fitr? ct appeal by Hi'- National
Housewives' bt'iiKiM1 to ITPiii'lenl Wil
son for 111<? regulation of the riuiiilry'M
food supply ami meetings ?>f I <?: al.
State ami city olliciais and investigat
ing committees, as well as vaii<>us <ivi?
organizations, at which resolutions
were adopted looking to a speedy re
adjustment of conditions
ICoincident with tin- egg 'myrolt, the
price of turkeys* dropped from t to
? cuts a pound.
Virtually everj branch of the mu
nicipal governnietii was at work lo-day
in an effort to liiul a solution to the
food problem. The Hoard of AMei iiu'n
adopted a resolution providing that the
committee on geucia) welfare be di
rected to report as early a" po -Iblc
"a practical plan fot investigating food
? ond it ions, with a view of adopting,
such ordinance- , recommending such
leg is kit ion taking such step.* as uia>
ne best calculated to remedy the evil.
At the same time, the department of
health Instructed to make a
thoroucli investigation of storage
v. a rehouses.
? o-opi;it vn: in \ti kmi* t
to t iu:< k siniiiM, rim i:s
? "IIP'AiJO. November L'>. Headed by
t'ie Women's t.'ity Club and the Chi
cago Political K(|u;dit l.'agU'. mem
l.i i ,,f several civic orga niza t ions and
women s i lulis to-day v\ ? t e co-operat
ing in -111 attempt to i he?-i: snaring
food prices.
The Women's City t'lub ami the Chi
cago political Kqualitv league are
? ent'ring their efforts on an e^^ boy
cott. members' of the former have
pledged themselves to refrain from the
use of them as long as the present
lifch prices continue, and members of
the latter have adopted a resolution I
to boycott eggs for four weeks and
to appoint a committee to investigate
tiie possibility of legislative action.
In addition, live measures designed to
curb the advancing cost of living were
introduced in the. City Coun- II. Those
adopted Included one calling on the
city h'alth commissioners and the]
< hlef of police to enforce the city or
dinance prohibiting re grading of e^g>
UI OTATIO.NS OX Tl IIKi:\S
i.ikici.v to 'i AKI-: ti Mni.i;
IMTTSBUltUH, I'A.. November 'J S. ?
Following refusal of buyers here to
purchase turkeys at high prices, many
thousands of the fowls were still un
sold to-day. and the quotations are
likely t ? take another tumble during
?lie day.
Annually great quant it i?-.- r.f the
lirds- are shipped to Pittsburgh from
< duo. West Virginia and near-by States
Just before Thanksgiving, and the sup
ply this year is- even larger than in
the past.
LEYLAND LINE TO PAY
\\ III Itepjilr Smokestack of I . N. >. Milp
Pierced lij Miotn I'roni llrltlxh
.steamer.
I Hy Associated Pre??. 1
NKW OTM.KANS, November 2S.? Lo
cal representatives of the Lev land Line
announced late to-day they will pay
for repairing the smokestack of the
I'nited States quarantine station ship
Neptune, which was perforated by tw ?
rifle bullets alleged lo have been fired
from the deck of the British steamer
Scythian, one of the Leyland vessels,
v.hile :tt the quarantine station near
the mouth of the Mississippi last Satur
day.
This agreement is expected by Fed
eral authorities here to close the in
cident, unless further action were de
cided upon by the officials in Wash
ington. I'nited States District Attor
ney Guigon, to whom the incident was
reported to-day. said to-night he was
unable to ilnd any statute providing for
criminal prosecution 111 the case.
The quarantine authorities alleged
several shots vv er?? fired from the
Scythian, after the station's olticer "e
fused persons aboard the vessel per
mission to lire the weapon, two of
the biiib-ts penetrating the smokestack
of the Neptune.
Captain .1. ?'!. Martin, of the Scythian,
declined to make any statement, but
oflicials of the Leyland Line stated
the captain did not know vv he fired
the shots, or whether they were fired
from his ship, hut the company would
assume responsibility for the damage
on the report of the quarantine au
thorities.
DISEASED CATTLE LOCATED
Six New ( uses I-'ound In Kiiiimjim Cllj
Stockyards?llellex ed to lie Fool- |
mid-Month \ Iclinin.
I Bv Associated l'r<~s.s. |
KANSAS CITY, MO.. November 2S ? !
Six new cases of Infected cattle were j
found in the Kansas City stockyards j
late to-day. Dr. .lames Fleming, head |
of the local bureau of the I'nited States I
Bureau of Animal Industry, announced j
to-night. The diseased cattle found j
to-day have been in the Kansas City 1
stockyards for two weeks or more,]
and it has not been possible to trace |
their origin. Mr. Fleming said he would I
hesitate to diagnose the disease as fool- j
nnd-mduth until further developments. |
CHANGES CABINET HOUR
President Will Meet Ofliclnl Family i
Hereafter in Afternoon Inntcnrt
of In Morning.
! By A**oclBled Pre** I
WASH I N U T O N, November 28.?
President Wilson changed a long-time
custom to-day when he decided that the
meeting hour of his Cabinet hereafter
would he 2:30 P. M. instead of 11 A. M.,
every Tuesday and Friday. This
change was decided upon so the Presi
dent will have his mornings on those
days free for other eniiageme.nt8.
TO IKE NEW MOVE
IN AID OF BELGIANS
Administration Seriously Con
cerned Over Continued De
portation of Civilians.
CABINET DISCUSSES MATTER
Hope to Make Next Step Effec
tive Without Straining Re
lations With Germany.
I Itv A iiited |*r i- *. |
\\ AS III N? IT' ?N. November ?New*
rp|ircsehlatiotis it it about to be iiih'Ia
to lh' < iiMiiiHii K"Vf rninent by the
I"nit???I Stall's ciiiici'iniiiii the ilepnrtii
Hon of Belgian civilians for labor iti
<iermany. What form they .shall take
lias not .!>< t'ti determined. but it became
known to-night that the administra
tion i.- .?? i iousl> exercised over the mat
ter. anil is | ? t i\m: i ng for its next step
with ri'at deliberation, hoping to make
it effect ivf- without straining the rela
ti .ns between tin- two conntries.
American CharKe lirrw, at Berlin,
recently took up this i|Uestion in
formally with tlx* Certnan Foreign
Oflice. and at th'- State [??partment'S
d iro'-tion sai'l th.it. a moot unfavorable
impression was being itpjiIpiI in neu
t ra I countries, particularly the Unit"!
States. His effort was unavailing.
Iiowevor TIm- l-'o reign < ?ni<e, in a note
now 011 it>- way to Washington, replied
that deportation of the Belgians was
a ?iillil.uy n? > < ssit \. and was being
i arrii d on in accordance with inter
national law KnvorniiiE the treatment
of popula t io?i; in <-oii<|ucred territory.
The charge's preliminary report, the
latest appeal for aid from the Belgian
covernment, and other- information in
the hands of tin- State Department were
discussed at to-day's Cabinet meeting,
and Secretary Lansing remained with
the President for nearly half an hour
after the other members left
t.KitAiti? \ \ i> not si:
I M.K <l\ l.lt SITI ATION
Ambassador Gerard. Iiere for final
? ?on ferrules before returning to I'.er
lin. atid Colonel K. .M. House also talked
over the plight ttf the Belgians during
visits to i!o- White House and the
State Department. It was said later
that this situation had made such a
profound impression that, for the pres
ent, at least, it had displaced in in
terest the submarine issue.
Ambassador Gerard did not sec the
President, but. at Mr. Wilson's request,
deferred his plan to leave for New
^ ork. and w ill see hint to-morrow. Re
gardless of whether it is derided to
instruct Charge drew to act further
immediately in the Belgian matter, the
ambassador will be given the ('resi
dent's personal vb ws on that subject
as well as concerning: the latest de
velopments in submarine warfare.
State Department oflieials admit that
the government is proceeding with the
trrentest difficulty in endea voring to
help the unfortunate Belgians. They
say that virtually the only basis for
representations is on the I?roa 11 ground
of humanity, and that it is almost im
possible to establish an uncontroverti
ble statement ot" the facts in the case.
The refusal of the British govern
ment to grant safe conduct to the new*
A tist ro-1 In ngaria n ambassador to the
i nitetl States also was brought tip at
to-day's Cabinet meeting, and dissat
isfaction was generally expressed.
Any step that may be taken by the
I nited States will be delayed until full
consideration has been given the Brit
ish note on the subject.
ORE CARS TO CARRY COAL
Itiillroiitls of Nnrthiimt \?ire?> to Help
Hellene Conntry-W lile far
Sliortnue.
I'r Associated f'r^ss. I
WASHINGTON, November US.?Rail
roads ? the North w? st have agreed to
help relieve the country-wide car
shortage by putting about Hi.500 of
tln-ir ore cars in the coal-carrying ser
vice. This was announced here to
night by the American Railway Asso
? iat ion s conference committee on cur
ctllciency.
The committee also announced that
all roads having on their lines more
bos cars than the> themselves own had
been ordered to move the ex- ess. loaded
? ?r empty, toward lines which have
fewer firs than they own The com
mittee made public a statement of bo\
? ar locations on November I. showing
large excesses on some roads and de
ficiencies on others. The Pennsylvania
headed the list of the former, with
30.963 more cars than it owns The
Southern had an excess of S.4:i?? and
the Chesapeake and Ohio ?;.f.5ti
On the roads holding fewer cars than
they own, the Grand Trunk I'aciiic was
first, with a deficiency of 7,?>?<*: Sea
! hoard Air Bine was short T,"SS. and
I Mobile and Ohio :t,tiS.':.
M'CORMICK FILES ANSWER
Deelurc* O'l.eary'n Tcleprnm to Presi
dent Tends lo Create Disrespect
for Chief l-'icciitlve.
.V!?;W YORK, November US. ? Vance C.
McCormick, . oa irin.m of the Democratic
National Committee, to-day tiled in tho
Supreme Court his answer to the $100.
| f00 libel action brought against hint
1 by Jeremiah O'Deary. McCormick ad
! mits he wrote the article which re
1 ferred to O'Deary as a "hyphenate."
but says lie did so without malice and
in the interest of good American cit
izenship.
McCormick sets forth a copy of the
telegram which O'Deary sent President
Wilson, accusing him of pro-British
sentiments ami telling him that tho
primary in New Jersey indicated he
was losing votes. McCormick says this
charged the President with "disloyalty
in violation of neutrality and truckling
to the British." He says O'Deary's
telegram was unpatriotic and tended to
create disrespect for the President of
the United States.
The Chemung Goes Down With
Stars and Stripes Flying
at Masthead.
MEMBERS OF CREW SAVED
Order of German Commander
That Flag Be Lowered Meets
With Stubborn Resistance.
I A tr?l |*r? l
I.(>ND?>N. .N"<>\ I'liihof '.'C.-I.lnvfl's r?.
I??rt* that tl,.. Ani? rii-a,, steamship
' hcmuiig lji? v I.e. n sunk
!h?- i rew ?.f tho riu-munc has hron
?? Val.mia by ,1,, Span 1*1,
steamer <1inrr. says ut. r dispatch
from Valnm in to-da\
Thf ciir.ln?,,c w.;s nojir
' ,,ft G"t?. rditig l(> t|,,. ,us.
patch.
111. Steamer f-HJIHi-rrw! with tlio
A""?rliiin m.K IImiik. It ? , added ,i10
captain !iHvinK f, ifnia | iv refused to
1'iwnr t !l r- flat;.
Tho submarine towo.l tho ? row to
within 11 v.- triilr... ,.f ,?t ,ho
\ al' in ia advices stato, an<l the,, aban
doned tJioin. At ih- ..n<! of ,i,e ,|ity
' 'i* >* pick"?l up by tl,o i.; inor. ' '
I' "km c;ivi:\ iim.i rp.w
mimtks to i;i;*r \w \y
PA TtlS, November L'S (censored). A
Ma<lrul -li.-i.at. il hv wir?l"s^ announce*
"rrival at ,f ,)f l|ip
Amcrii an stciimt r ( 'hemurig. tnrppdiiPi|
1,1 ~ hy a (!>>rinan Mihiiiarin?. The
commander c?v<. tlio cr.-w only a few
minutes to abandon tho vessel, not al
'" M 'np tlicin ? v. n to tak. their money
and |ia|M>rs.
1li? submarine t..wod the i,fo boats
in which tho crew wore placed to with
in fivi> mil ps of thr .-oast, whore it
abandoned tlKin.
Til- Clioinunu wont down with the
Slurs rind Stripes floating at he, mast.
A lively incident preceded tlie sinking
of the vessel. The German comman
der gave orders that the American Hag
should to- lowered, and (>orman sailors
perpar.-d to nut thorn into effect. They
m?t with stubborn resistance on tlio
part of the Amrrican captain. Duffy,
and his . row. who refused to haul down
the colors saving that if the ship had
to be sunk, it would bo with the flag
Hying.
' a pl.t in 1 Miffy maintained his ground, j
and so rapidly wore the preparations
to sink the Chemung made that fur- |
titer discussion about the flag ceased. |
and after the captain and crew had
l.een taken aboard tho submarine, a
torr.o.lo and threo shells sent against
the Side of the American ship put her
to the bottom.
Although angry at ihe a. lion of the
?ierinan commander. Captain Duffy and
his men had some measure of satis
faction in seeing the flag at the mast
head as the waves finally engulfed
their ship.
The Chemung was registered at New
Vork, and carried a crew of twenty
four. They found a placo |n two life
boats, and after a time on the open sea
wore picked up by a Spanish steamer,
which took tl.em to Valencia. 1'aptain
I'Uffv has made a long report of the
incident to the American consul at
^ alenla, John It. Putnam.
\ i:*si-:i, i ? a it it i kij xo i '.\ itiao
KOII IT A I.I A \ (jOVKIt\MK\T J
N !?: \\ Y(.?BI\, November 2S.?The
llarriss .Magi 11 Steamship Company,
representatives here of the Marby
Steamship Company, owners of the
' "hemung. reported sunk to-day. said
tho vessel carried general cargo only,
no munitions or cargo owned by tlie
Italian government being on board.
Tho ship was commanded by Captain
John D Duffy, and carried a crow of
thirty-live mon. the majority of whom
are believed to be Americans.
KKVKItAI. OTIIKIt X 101'Til A I.
Mil P.* SKNT TO IIOTTOM
The sinking of the Chemung was
closely followed I > \ reports from
Dloyd's telling of the destruction of
several neutral ships, and many Hying
the flags of the allies.
The largest of these was the British
ship City of P.irininuhain. of 1,4.SO tons
cross. Lloyd's advices said that all
Die passengers and crew were saved,
wiih exception of a physician and threo
members of (he crew, who wore
drowned. The City of Birmingham
was last reported on her arrival in
Bombay from London on September -1
She was 4'?'0 feet long, built in 1011.
ami owned by the llall Line of Diver
pool.
Another I * - !m?si l victim u;is tlin Nor
wegian steamship Visborg. of I..in tons
(Continued on Second Page*.")
YOUR NEWSPAPER COST
lour newspaper sort ice i? the
cheapcM necessity you Imi.t. The !
ail vertlNlni; coot tliroiiRh (lie dully
newspaper In the cheapest manner
111 which to reneh ciinInmcrs.
This him all been effected by a
w ond er f u I world-wide organ Inn t Ion
and system. by which the public
benefit, and an efficiency not known
In nny Industry.
Xe wspa pern which ha\e rill ex
perienced enormous Increases In
publishing eon In of their own. are
belli* Miihjectcd to prohll.ltUe paper
prleeM anil e\netloiin many tlnien
the IncreaNed com of ninniifncturlng
pa per.
The I'reMN In dolnR lit utinOMt to
malntnln Its nervlre to the public,
ivlthotit pnnsliiK on these extorilona.
but e \ pect (hut at leant 2.000 news
papers will lie forced out of busl
ne?? ne*t year, and most of the
others will show defiolt*.
The nltuatlon In extremely ?e
Houn f?ir the publisher and the
public.
Til K PAPIilt COM M ITTKH,
American Newspaper Publishers*
Association,
00.1 World Ruilding. New York City. I
Two More Zeppelins ,
Destroyed by British,
Crews of Both Perish
Giant Dirigibles Br ought
Down in I*lames Into Sea
After Being Attacked
by Aeroplanes.
I By An.?<h hi to?i Pre ?>. |
LONDON, November 2S. -Two
pel ins which raided the northeast, const
an*l iho Not ? h Mi? i 1 aii?l '?onntIos lasr
night ?n>' I.rough t iloivn and d< siroyed
l>y British airmen. and it is under
stood th< news ,,{ both airships r
ishod. !"f\'tn German airships have
l<?'-n di-st roye<! hi Kng'.aiid this ye;i r,
while six iiave been brought down in
other fields.
I lie two months of immunity w 11i? -H
??reat Britain had hail from hostile
air raids led many to believe the
Germans would not risk any more air
ships in attacks, which, while caus
ing numerous casualties among civil
ians. and damage to private property,
were said in Kngland to have gained
no military advantage.
Tho authorities, regarding the pro
tection of London as fairly complete,
continued their work however, with
the object ??f rendering other parts
of the country safe. The scores or
air patrols this morning have given
the greatest satisfaction here.
< >nicja 1 reports do not say how many
airships crossed the coast, but ap
parently they were hotnharded so se
verely by antiaircraft guns, as well
as being attacked by airplanes, that
they were unable to do much damage.
Lights were turned out in all the towns
in the districts affected as soon as re
ports of the approach of airships were
announced, and the. commanders of the
Zeppelins apparently had ditliculty in
locating themselves. A number of
bombs were dropped, although no re- >
ports of damage in any towns have
been received.
ATTACKED BV MM.I.i; A I It PI. A N K
AM) KAI.I.S IN KI.AMKS HIT COAST
One Zeppelin discharged h"r cargo
of explosives in Yorkshire and Dur
ham. She was attacked by a single
airplane and Tell in flames off the
Durham coast.
Another got as far as the North
Midland counties and likewise dropped P
bombs. Sho was attacked by airplanes i
and guns and apparently was damaged.
1 bue effected repairs after reaching the
.Norfolk coast and started for home at
high speed and a high altitude. Naval
airplanes were awaiting her and with
Hie ..id of an armed trawler brought
her down.
Great crowds attracted to the sea
coast by the firing watched the Zeppe
lins as they descended in flames.
<>ne woman was killed and sixteen
persons injured in the Zeppelin raid.
The airships dropped 100 bombs.
The destruction of the airships was!
announced in an o^icial communica
tion issued by the War Ollice.
Both Zeppelins were brought down
in flamc-s into the sea after being at
tacked by aeroplanes. One of them
was destroyed while nine miles out at
sea on her return trip.
The War Office announces that al-'
though full reports of the damage and
casualties inflicted by the Zeppelins
had not been received this morning,
they were believed to have been slight.
OKKICI A I. At cm NT Ol* IIAIII
ISM 1011 in \\ A It OI'T'ICIO
The official account of the raid is
sued this morning says:
"A number of hostile airships ap- ;
proaohed the northeast coast of Kng
land l?"twren 10 and 11 o'clock last
n'ght. I tombs were dropped at various
places m Yorkshire and Durham. The
damage is believed to be slight.
""ii" airship attacked by airplanes of
the Itoyal Klying Corps, was brought
down in flames into the sea off the
coast of Durham. Another airship
crossed Into the North Midland coun
ties and dropped bombs at various
places. ? >n her return Journey she
was repeatedly attacked by airplanes of
the Hoyal Klying Corps and guns. She :
appears to have been damaged, for the
last part of the journey was made at
very slow speed. She was unable to
reach the coast before day was break
ing. Near tin- Norfolk coast sin- ap
parently succeeded in effecting repairs
and was proceeding east at high speed,
and at an altitude <>f over S.O00 feet
she was attacked nine miles out at
sea by four machines of Die Itoyal'
Naval Air Service and an armed traw
ler and was brought down in flames
at ?;:4A. M
"Kull reports of (he casualties and
damage have not been received, but
they are believed to he slight."
TOT A I. OK 1*1 Vl-J til \ NT
Dili l< ? I HI.ICS lilt It I t.HT HOW N
The destruction of two Zeppelins'
makes a total of five of the giant rliri-.
uihles which have been destroyed in
tho three latest attacks by German air
men on Rrltlsh t< ? ns.
On September .1, a squadron of Zep
pelins raided the eastern counties of j
Kngland, with vmilnii, according to
the British official statement, their ap
parent objective. line of the airshipsj
was brought down in flames close to
l.oudon. tin September 23 twelve Zep
pelins again attempted to reach Lon
don and this time two were victims of;
the British antiaircraft gims in the
neighborhood of the capital. The crew ;
of one airship perished and the crew
of the other, consisting of twenty-two j
men, was captured.
An official statement by the British
War ? iffico stated thai thirty persons;
were killed and 11 o injured as the re
sult of the bombs dropped by the
raiders on this occasion. On Novem
ber is, I'etrograd reported that Rus
sian troops near Plunk on the eastern I
battle line brought down a large. Zep? j
(Continued on Third Pago.) ? I
Overman for Recognition
of Western Stnitors
I M\ A ->?>??},it???i I'roMs. |
? II UU.OTTi:, N. C.. ,\i?>I'inl.rr -s.
? The Olisrrtrr mii;n on miHiiiril.v
flint Semi lor (Merman, of Norlli
' '""oIIiih, will nol consent In tin*
use of liIn mime for prrsiilcitl prn
tempiire or I Ik- Sriuilf or for llrmo
ornlle leader of the Sriuilr, Senator
Overman Inkt'M II.r vlrw tluil l.olli
tlie.se po*l Doom should ko to Sen
ators from I It ?* \\ est. In rn-OKiillioii
of the purl Hint Met-Hon ?f t|,e
try played In flic election of Prcttl
ilenl WIImoii anil to nliotv tlir West
lIiiiI .Southern DrmncraiN, who luivc
Im-IiI priii-tlml I.t nil i ho ho n or oil po
*11 Ion* in Imtli Semite nml lloimr,
know nit seel lonn 11mii. Srnalor
Overman aim. takes the view Hint
acceptance of either of thejio posi
tion* would rnpilrr lilm to re
11 >> i| ii I x li mo mo of Mm committee ii.h
ilKnnu-nlji. Hr I* I'liiiirinuti of tlir
? oimnlttee on Rules nml n member
of four other Srnnlr commit tecfi.
nnrt lliffir iiiolKniiii-nln iirr MatiMfnc
fory to lilm. |.*or these reason* lie
will not he n cnniliilate for either
place for ?vIII,-1, ho linn lieen iirKrii.
FAVORS COMPLETE SUMO
Of EDEICflTIONIIL SfSTEM
Ivxcrtilive Committee of State Teach
ers Association ICci-ommends
Invest i^atinii.
NO DKTAII. TO HK OVlCltl.OOKKI)
Iii()iiii-.v W'iiii|i] Kxamine Into Results
Obtained From Money Expended,
Methods of Insii-ni-tion and I'art
I'la.ved by Politics.
\n?inia will Imvf. survcj. Qf jts
cmiro educational system on the plan
recent l> cotmucted with good result*
In Maryland. if the w ishes ?f the exec
utive committee of the Slate Teachers'
Association are carried ont as ex
pressed yesterday hi the all-day meet
jiiK held in Murphy'* Hotel. The meet
ing h'iis the first on the program of
the Virginia Kiluca i ion a 1 Conference,
which will l.e in progress in Richmond
to-day t,,-morrow ami i-'riday. ami
which will attract large numbers of
school officials and leathers from every
eoiinly in the State.
?N'o criiicisai ?.f the present adminis
tration Of the Stale school system is
intended hy the proposal that the sur
vey l.e made, it is said, hut it is he
llevi?#| that a ureal increase iti ?-Mi
cietiey would l.e made possible l.v the
Information which the survey would
hiing to HrIiI. The tieueral Kduca
lion Hoard of New York, or the Cnited
States I lepa it men t of ICilucation would
conduct the survey, it is said. The
survey in Maryland cost J."i,00n
? onskvi- iis
>11 ST 1-'|Its'l* HK Olt'r\IM-:i)
I-or ati investigation of ,i State <|e-I
partmeut, the approval of the l.egls-j
lature is necessary. \.? detinue action I
resulted from the d iscn.-.-ioii al the
meeting of the exfeutive committee
yesterday. The matter will he taken
up at;ain at lit o'clock this morning,
anil a commitiee may l.e appointed to j
stir up interest in an educational sur
vey and arouse sentiment in its favor, j
The Legislature may he requested at i
its next session in order the iti?iiiii*y
and to appropriate funds for it.
The survey will no int.. st:c|i matters
as the iiualiticat ions of all members of
the school force, from teacher to super
inlendeni. methods <>f instruction, re
sults ohtained from the money ex
pended. and i In- part played hy politics
in the State cdticntii.mil system. It is j
intended that no details shall l.e over
looked.
i M her recommendations made hy the
executive committee wor that ? in
future annual educational conferencesJ
liter'- l.e fewer sectional meetings and
ino|-< time given to matters of Ken- I
era I interest: that the limits of local j
conference districts he changed to con
form with geographical rather than
pol'tlcal boundary liiu.i, and that school
superintendents and trustees l.e re
quested to give all teachers leave of
absence from their work on the Wed
nesday before Thanksgtvmg May ea.-h
year in order that the\ may attend,
the conference.
I.I M lli:o> is s|;|t \ | ;t >
TO nniuiTTci: >iK>|III-:lis
All of the t wenty-eig h t members of
tin- executive committee were present
at the meetij!!:. which was held from 0 :
until l ..'dock yesterday in .Murphy's
Hotel Charles f.\ Maphis. of the I ni
versity of Virginia, presided Luncheon
was vir\i-d the members of the com
mittee at lb. hotel l.v the city. In
addition there were present the mem
Imi-s of the limine, commitiee of the
State I eachers ,-\sscciation, several
division superintendents, the otllcers of
tlo State Department of Public in-,
struct Ion, Hie ..dicers of the (.'o-iipera
tiye 1'jilu.;ation Association ami mem
bers of Hie Advertising and Kuter
prises < ?' .111 III i t Vte of I he I 'ill' Council
Sixty-live persons in all were present.
I 'resident Maphis acted a-< toast
master. Speeches were made by |>r
.1. A. i'. Chandler, Siiperintei.denl of the
Richmond public schools; I >r. .1 P. Mc- '?
Connell. president of the |{ ad ford .\\.r
nial School. Mrs R li. Munford, preai-!
dent of the Co-i iperative lOdu.-ation As
sociation; Mr ,1. M. Kui--1 .-sion. president
of Virginia Polytechnic Institute; P. C.
Stearnes. State Superintendent of Pub- ;
lie Instruction, and .1. ,\\ llillman. the. '
recentlv chosen secretary of the State
Iti.ard of I'NIucat ion.
The conference ..f division superin
tendents of the State was held at J ;
o'clock yesterday afternoon in the
Richmond pu'dic schools' Administra
tion Building. C. R. Row ry. of Rurkc- j
(.Continued on Thud Page.) j
TEUTONIC FORCES
ONLY 37 MILES
FROM BUKHAREST
Semicircle About Rouma
nian Capital Being
Drawn Closer.
BERLIN REPORTS SUCCESS
IN TIGHTENING GRIP
Giurgiu, on Danube, and Curtca
dc Argcs, on Argcchu,
Captured.
Aimi,l.i:nv ACTIVE IN WEST
In Carpathians. Russians T*ej;in An
other Attack Against Austro
flornian Forces.
fBv Assoriatci
Operations of the Teutonic allien In
Roumania have brought th<"m appre
ciably nnnr<-r Rukharest. and th^y ar?
still progressing from the north and
west .tn<I On1 south and the southwest.
The northern hunk r>f the Danube In
Rouma ilia. extending westward from
tiiurgiu. on the railroa<l south of Ruk
harest to Ost Villon, a short distance
from the Serbian border, now is In the
hands of the forces of the central pow
ers. The capture of points in this re
cion oppoitite Yidin. T,om-Palanka and
Uahovo by the Bulgarians would seem
seriously tp mctiare the Roumanian
troops from the Orsova and Turnu Se.?
verin sectors, who were reported seve
ral clays ago to ho in retreat to the
southeast.
The occupation of C. iurgiu brings the
line of Field Marshal von Mackenseh
to within thirty-seven miles of Buk
harest on the south, while the capture
of Curtea tie Argcs, eighty miles north
west of the capital evidently has
cleared the Topolog sector of Rouma
niu, and given the invaders the rail
road to the important town of Pitcscl,
the junction <>f the line running from
Cainpulung to Bukharest.
In occupying Curtea tie Arges, Gen
eral von Falkonhay n's troops apparent
|y have driven the Roumanians from
the line of Topolog, and may even have
broken, near its northern end. the
line of the Argcchu, along which the
Roumanians were expected to make a
decisive, stand.
Thus the semicircle drnwu about
Rukharcst and the Roumanian armies
is gradually, but steadily, being drawn
closer. Substantial successes are re
ported by Berlin in the new operations
for tightening the grip.
KOI M \\lt\ ItHTIItK.MK.NT
PHOt'KKDS IN PKIIKIOt T OHIJKH
In the center the Teutonic allies are
still driving eastward, having left the
Alt Valley far in their rear. An un
otlicial dispatch from Rukharcst says
the retirement of the Roumanians Is
proceeding in perfect order toward a
new front already settled on for de
fense.
The operations in Macedonia are
somewhat beclouded by reason of di
vergont reports. Berlin says that north
of Monastir renewed attacks by the
entente allies failed, while the Serbian
War Otlice claims that in fighting along
the entire front the Serbs at several
points made advances of several hun
dred meters. Sofia on the o her hand,
asserts that attacks on hill 1050 and tha
village of Paralovo were put down by
the Bulgarians and CJermans, as like
wise was a British offensive in the
Vardar region south of the. village of
Rogoroditsa.
<m the front in Franco and in the
Aust ro-l talian theater nothing hut
bombardments have taken place. South
of Itvinsk. on the Russian front, artil
lery duels have been in progress. Con
siderable activity also has developed in
the recion of Riga. In the Carpathians
the Russians have begun another at
tack against the Auftro-Cerman forces,
and lighting now is proceeding there.
Potrograd 'admits that the Turks
have occupied the towns of Adramed
and Koshishogly, south of Van, Turk
ish Armenia.
NO IMPORT \ NT CII WtiK
IN .MIMTAIIY SITVATIOV
f By Associated Press. J
BI'KllARKST. November 2* (via
l.omloti).?N't* important change In tho
military situation is reported lp to
da\'s communication from the War
i tllici .
fONTINI I-: WITH SI'fTK!<S
lilt I V K TOW A It II Bl KlltllKST
UKRI.IN'. November "S < via Sa.vville).
-Tli< Austro-Cierman forces in West
ern Rotimania are continuing with suc
cess their drive toward Bukharest, the
War < ulice announces. New operations
have been begun and additional ground
has been named by the invaders.
The statement follows:
"Front .if Archduke Joseph?Kastern
Transylvanian front: There was an in
crease Hi local artillery activity. Sev
eral Russian reconnoltering detach*
ments were repulsed.
"The Alt has been crossed. Further
operations have been initiated, begin*
ninn with engagements that resulted
in substantial successes for us. Curtea
do A rues is in our possession.
"Army ureup of Field Marshal von
Mackonsen: In lHibrudja there has been
moderate fighting activity.
"The I tailube army has gained
ground, iiiurgiu ?hs captured yes
terday."
The forces invading W'-atern Ro?j*
mania are now within less than forty
miles of Bukharest. The town of
< iiurgiu, across the Panube from the
Bulgarian fortress of Rustchuk, is
thirty-seven miles south of the Rou
manian capital. It has considerable
importance, from a military standpoint,
owing not only to its position with
respect to Bukharest, but to the. fact
that it is connected by railway with
the capital.
The attack on Bukharest from the
north i? also developing rapidly. Tha
