i '
^ Occasional ^.rnoon and ! ^ ^ k ^ . . . . . . .A l?jf "From PrgM to HoWC |
?m-~? ? n hr> drMi>tltltrtr ssf \vir ffl h *. *.*?-?
! If y I I r 11 I I I I I I III! ^ ^ I CM I
7-tod- h m/4 IV / '^ Wl |>VI iM \,\\,\ 4 -======
? 1 I y I f / ?w?n? lffct Circulation. Month off October.
Shit* Dnlly Average. TM?1| Sunday. 68.07L
No. 29,517. WASHINGTON, D. C., WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 1916.?SIXTEEN PAGES. ONE CENT.
SAYS "FOOD TRUST" I
MUST BUR BLAME
i
I
' Representative Borland Does
Not Think Embargo Proper
i Remedy to Apply.
I
VIEWS ON D. C. AFFAIRS
Opposition to the proposed embargo
on the exportation of food is voiced by j
Representative Borland of Missouri, j
who, while stating that he understood
the general aim of those who back the j
proposition of Representative Fitz- i
gerald. and sympathized with it, announces
that he does not believe that
the embargo would be the proper
means to the desired end.
"Those back of the embargo," said
Mr. Borland, "are aiming at the control
and monopolization of food supplies by
the huge food trust of the country. I
strongly favor the taking of the control
of the prices of food supplies away
from this trust, which is composed of
the big cold storage plants of the country.
But I believe the means they propose
would inevitably defeat their purpose
and shall oppose the embargo on
those grounds.
"We have tried embargoes before, and
they have never been successful. At
best they are only temporarily expedient
and always they are exceedingly
dangerous. The inevitable effect of an
r embargo is to cut production, while
high prices stimulate production. And. t
f above all things, production must be j
encouraged."
To Get After Food Trust.
Mr. Borland then proceeded to the'
announcement of his personal determi- !
nation to get after the "food trust" of ;
the country. His plan involves an in-j
vestigation of existing conditions by j
the federal trade commission and pos- j
sibly by a specially appointed congres- I (
sional committee. It was made clear !
that he proposes to lay his plan before:]
Congress in the form of a resolution . j
early in the session about to open.
"There can be no question but that j
one of the most critical phases which :
the country faces today is the shortage !
of food." said the representative from ; :
Missouri. "This condition is caused in j
part by the war and the dry season,
which has endured in the western
states, but the most pronounced fea-(
ture of the entire situation is the fact i
that the cold storage plants of the;
country have cornered food products!
and are manipulating prices to their
own advantage."
Mr. Borland then recalled the fact j
that at the last session he sponsored a
) resolution which, he said, ultimately!
had the effect of raising the profit inj
beef for the farmers, but which, ac- j ?
cording to him, failed to aid the con-. ,
sumer.
Gets It From All Sides. , '
"The consumer." he said, "continues 1
. to get it in the neck from all sides. Not ^
only have the big packing houses in |
Chicago gained control of the prices in
meat, poultry, butter, eggs, fruits and
vegetables, but recent developments in
Chicago show that they also control the 1
wheat market of the country. And I
propose to lend every energy of mine:;
toward breaking up the combination ;
preying upon the country at large." '
Discussing his probable activities in j ;
District of Columbia affairs during the : j
coming session. Mr. Borland said that :
the prevalent general opinion that he?is J
hostile to the best interests of the Dis- '
trict is unfair, and that he only seeks
to correct certain abuses which he be- *
lieves exist at present. He discussed '
the probability of the introduction of a ; '
"dry District" bill at the coming ses- 5
sion. and stated that, inasmuch as iO : '
per < ent of the residents of th District j
desire th#* passage of such a bill, be
would present it if Senator Sheppard of
Texas does not.
V i a TIT c An Tli cf ri A# To^ofinn
Taking up the question of District j
taxation. Mr. Borland said:
"As I have stated before, all of the '
i taxes in the District fail on the shoul- i '
j
ders of the small property holders and <
the owners of invested wealth pet off
s< ott free. This 1 maintain to be Inequitable.
I believe that it is the dis- ,
position of t'ongress to abolish the j 4
'half-and-half system of financing Dis- | j
trict improvements, and reform meas- j ,
* ures will be pushed in the coming ses- ' j
sion.
"Backing up the successful bill for the ; ,
abolishment of alley slums. I shall probably
push a bill for the developing of ! ,
sanitary housing throughout the Dis- j ,
trict." i j
Mr. Borland then said that he believed I |
the garden city idea should be de- :
veloped In Washington, lie pointed out I
thai, in order to protect the real estate t
investments of small property holders ;
in the District, a law should be passed : j
restricting the areas to be used by the j
colored residents of the city for resi- <
dence sections.
Questioned as to his attitude toward!
representation for the Distri -t in Con- ] '
gress. he said that there is no theoretical
objection to the plan on his part, arid :
that he is inclined to believe that repre- :
sentatior. in national legislation \vild <
be right at t c present time He said,
however, that lie was opposed to any
plan to piace the local government of the
District i-i the hands of Washingtonians. <
WAY TO CUT LIVING COST.
Speaker Clark Says to Keep Hens
and Eat Mush and Nice.
Keep hens ami eat mush and rice
and thus destroy the infamous food
trust, is the advice of Champ <"lark.
Speaker of the House. Any one with
twenty square fe?-t of ground, says Mr.
? 4"lark, can keep a few hens, and if they
' lay an egg or two they will do their \
little bit toward reducing the cost of , .
living for the owners As for mush it's
a highly nutritious food arul there {
isn't enough of it ?-atnn. ltice is cheap, ,
too.
"There may or may not he a chance 1
for Mi Fitzgerald's proposed embargo
bill.' said the Speaker. "It might do
some good. I don't know. I think the ;
government can help lower the price
of food by legislative or oilier action. ,
but there are direct ways by which ,
the consumer can help Every one i
should keep some hens. Mush is high- j
ly nutritious and it isn't eaten enough. J
Rice is too generally overlooked in '
this country. I was surprised to hear
that 5 cents' worth of rice will serve j
as substitute for bread for an entire
day for a family of six people"
Turkeys Drop in Pittsburgh.
PITTSBURGH. Pa. November 29.?
With the public refusing to buy turkeys
at high prices, the market here i
has suffered another sharp slump, and
prices today were as low as IS cents
a pound for th^ live fowls and a large
supply on hand. It is expected quotations
will go still lower today. Re
tail dealers are still holding out for
2.~> cents a pound, dressed weight, but
some were forced to sell as low as 22
fc cents a pound yesterday.
L
ASSUMES CHEMUNG
WAS GIVEN WARNING
State Department's Advices
Make No Mention of Unlawful
Attacks.
AUSTRIAN U-BOAT BLAMED
Official report on the destruction of
the American steam- r Chemung by an
Austrian submarine has been received
by the State department from the
American consul at Valencia, Spain.
"American steamer Chemunp," said
the consul, "sunk by jrunfire and torpedo
by an Austrian submarine four
teen miles east of Cape de Gato. 10:14
a.m., 26th. Crew landed at Valencia.
All well."
Assumed Warning1 Was Given.
As the consul made no mention of
an unlawful attack on the ship it is
q^sumed at the department that warning
was given. "The fact that the
Chemung was an American vessel,"
said one official, "is important, hut no
American ship has the right to evade
the rules laid down by the State Department.
If the Chemung- violated
the law, she would be in the same
category as any other vessel which
acted contrary to the rules stated by
this department."
Similar to Other Cases.
The case appears to be somewhat
similar to the destruction of the
American ships William P. Frye and
the Leelanaw, both carrying contra
awarded by diplomatic negotiation. As j
there was no loss of life nor apparent j
violation of Germany's pledges the case
is not regarded as alarming.
The German embassy here is confident
that if the steamship Marina was
illegally torpedoed steps necessary to
satisfy the United States quickly would
be taken. The same view is held regarding
the case of the P. & O. liner
Arabia, sunk in the Mediterranean. It i
is assumed that Germany's reply to the j
American inquiry for information will
be handed to Charge Grew within the I
next few days.
Chemung Went Down
With Stars and Stripes
Floating at Her Mast |
PARIS. November 29.?The Chemung, 1
torpedoed near Cabo de Gata. went '
lown with the Stars and Stripes float- 1
ing at her mast. A lively incident pre- i
ceded the sinking of the vessel. The j
Jerman commander gave orders that '
he American flag should be lowered 1
and German sailors prepared to put j
ihem into effect. They met with stub- ;
born resistance on the part of the \
American Capt. Puffy and his crew, k
who refused to haul down the colors, j
saying that if the ship had to be sunk t
it would be with the flag flying. i \
Capt. Duffy maintained his ground'
and so rapidly were the preparations j j
to sink the Chemung made that further j j
discussion about the flag ceased, and j ^
after The captain and crew had been <
taken aboard the submarine a torpedo j <
and three shells sent against the side ; j
of the American ship put her to the j i
bottom. : .
Although angry at the action of the ; <
Merman commander, Capt. Duffy and t
his men had some measure of satisfac- j 1
tion in seeing the flag at the masthead j
as the waves finally engulfed their
ship.
Captain Makes Report.
V1.-YV V(?I>U' Vr.v-on,l,<.r '>'* A ronort '
?n the torpedoing of the steamer
"hemung was received here today by
Harriss, Magill & Co., agents for the
ship, in a cablegram from her master,
'apt. Duffy, saying. "Chemung sunk
by gunfire and torpedoed by Austrian
submarine fourteen miles east of Cape
lata. 2f?th. All safe. Address care
American consul. Valencia."
The crew list of the Chemung filed
a ith customs officers here shows that
>nly ten of the men on board, includng
("apt. Duffy, were Americans, the
>thers being Creeks, Russians, Spanards
and Mexicans.
The manifest of her cargo filed on
late <-f sailing shows that it consisted I
mainly of iron and steel products, j
hemicals. dried rish, wooden staves. !
etc. Included in the cargo were i>,146 j
l>ieces of copper and 200 bales of cotton.
ASKS MORE DETAILS OF U. S.
Germany Holds Facts on Sinking of
Marina Insufficient for Probe.
BKKLIN. via London, November 29.?
The Cerrnan foreign office has asked
the American embassy for further details
as to the place and circumstances j
nf the sinking < f the British steamer |
Marina. It is said that the informa- j
i ion riuiTHi ir: mi' .\inr-rican note or j
inquiry is ins ;!J:cient for the purposes j '
?f investigation.
FOR NATION-WIDE SUFFRAGE.
Miss Jeannette Rankin Wires She
Has Been Misquoted.
Miss Jeannette Rankin, the first con- i
grosswornan-elect. today wired to the 1
National American Woman Suffrage As- i
Bociation headquarters here that she has i
heen misquoted in published statements
thai she is in favor of state-by-state i '
uloption of woman suffrage rather than j <
through a federal amendment. ! <
Mrs Walter McNabb Miller, vice presi-,
dent of the national association, in charge :
of the lobby that is working on Congress, i
who received the message, called atten-j
lion to the fact that Miss Rankin made I .
h< r campaign on three issues, one of which ! '
was nation-wide equal suffrage. '
The national association expects that ]
Miss Uankin will make her home in Washjngton
in the building that tiie association
is about to acquire as a national
headquarters. i
i
i
Conservation
of Paper
Kvery citizen is called upon to see
that not a pound of paper is wasted. ,
Pemand from every clerk that any
unnecessary wrapping of packages
pe. dispensed with.
If you have no further use for today's
newspaper save it for the
achool children's playground fund.
Call Main 6036 and ask for the
nearest public school to your home
and the old papers will be sent for. J
CHRISMS FUND
FOR MILITIA A HIT
Contributions for D. C. Men
on Border Follow Star's
Suggestion Quickly.
GEN. MANN PRAISES MOVE
i "
Contributions to Fund.
The following contributions to
the National Guard Christmas
fund have beA?n received:
The Star $100
Mrs. Louise Pippard 2
S. B. J 5
Total $107
Prompt response in contributions has
followed The Star's suggestion, published
yesterday, for a District militia
Christmas fund with which to provide
gifts for the "boys" of the National
Capital now serving on the Mexican
border at the Yuletide.
Although the United States' armies
today are provided with almost everything
to make the men comfortable in
the field under service conditions there
are many things which may be provided
with the District militia fund, to
be given by the people of the District,
to make happy the District militiamen
who will be in tents in the field on
Christmas day. Away from home as
they are, getting military training
which will make them an asset to the
country in time of need, little things
which show that the people back home
are appreciative of the work being
done by their representatives at the
"front" will make real Christmas spirit J
for the men. \
There is a growing interest in the
movement inaugurated by The Star to
send to the District troops funds with |
which to provide necessities and luxu- j
ries showing that the people of the District
want them to have a real Christmas.
Of course, the army provides a
great big Christmas dinner on that day.
but that is not all that is necessary to I
give these men a real Christmas feeling.
A little present, no matter how
small, will remind them that the
Christmas spirit still prevails.
Gen. Mann Praises Movement.
Brig. (Jen. William A. Mann, chief of j
the militia bureau of the War Depart- i
nent, says it will be a fine thing for J
the people of Washington to remember!
the District troops in the field in this
way.
The District troops have been in the
ield nearly six months, having gone
nto camp at Fort Myer, Va., June 21,
hree days after the President issued
lis call for the militia. Most of the men
?ave up fine positions at good salaries
o learn the lesson of preparedness,
dost of them receive but $15 a month,
ind most of them have to send the
greater part of this home, so there is
ittle left with which to purchase all
he things which a soldier enjoys and!
n quantities he needs.
A supply of cigars, cigarettes and to-'
>acco to last through the Christmas J
lolidays is suggested as an appropriate I
jift. And what is Christmas without!
. andy? Many of tlu* young men do not!
smoke, but they like good candy, and !
t will taste ail the better at Christmas
:ime, when most every one has candy, i
\ present of nice chocolates and other
'hristmas candies will certainly please
he militiamen. And it will remind
hem that there are people back home
still thinking of them.
Funds to Go to Four Camps.
The funds are to be evenly distributed
among the annroximatelv 1.500 i
:roopers at the four camps at which
he District troops are located. These
ire San Antonio and K1 I'aso, Tex.,
md Nogales and Douglas, Ariz.
There are so many tilings which the
roopers would like to have and canlot
buy with their small salaries that
t will take a good-sized fund to proride
them. However, the fund will be
no rated and every man will get an
mjuh.1 amount, so far as it can be divided,
with the articles for- which the
roopers ask. No one will be slighted,
aid no man will g<*t more than another,
unless it be a few pennies' diference
in the cost of articles he re- 1
reives.
It is planned to send the money, so
hat the articles can be purchased in
he vicinity of the camps in time to
lave the articles delivered on Christnas
day. All the goods will be purrhased
at wholesale prices, so that the
noney contributed will be made to go
is far as possible.
PACK CHRISTMAS BOXES!
TO SEND TO U.S. FORCES!
American Red Cross Workers Preparing
Holiday Cheer for Fighters
of Regular Establishment.
I
Headquarters of the local chapter of j
the American Red Cross, where ('hristinas
stockings filled with presents will
be prepared and sent to (Jen. Pershing's
men in Mexico and to the American
marines in Haiti and Santo Domingo,
were opened yesterday at 1505 Pennsylvania
avenue northwest. The packing
?f the Christmas boxes was begun
early in the day, when forty dozen
pairs of socks, contributed by the Navy i
Department, were received.
Kach soldier will get a pair of socks,
i game, a pipe, tobacco, several sticks
>f candy and little box of chocolates, a
penknife, pencil and paper. It cost 50
cuts to fill one stocking.
Miss Mabel Boardman, in charge of
the packing, said that any funds over
and above the amount necessary to
supply (Jen. Pershing's army and the
American marines will be used to fill
stockings for the District soldiers now
?n the border. It is planned to send
1.500 pairs of socks to (Jen. Pershing's
army and 500 to the marines, it was announced
today.
A large sign has been placed in front
t>f the building explaining that it is
the headquarters of the Red Cross
I'hrlstmas fund, and two posters, made
by Miss Dolores G. Waldorf and Miss
Sara J.,evitan, also are in the front of
the building.
Those Helping in the Work.
i Those assisting at the headquarters
yesterday wore: Mrs. Baker, wife of
the Secretary of War; Mrs. Gibson
Fahnestock, Mrs. Julian James. Mrs.
Boid. wife of the late Capt Boyd, lOtlx
. j i
Cavalry, killed at Oarrizal, Mexico; I
Miss Nannie Randolph. Miss J. D. |
Strong. Mrs. William Crozier, Mrs. T. j
W. Richards and Mrs. T. N. McLaughlin. |
The following contributions were an- I
nounced at the headquarters: Mrs. I'hil j
Sheridan, $5: Miss Abbie McCammon, I
50 cents; Miss Edith McCammon, 50 ;
rents; Miss Nannie Randolph, $3; Miss '
Sara Randolph, $3: Mrs. A. Cordon- j
Cummins, $1.50; L. D. Latimer, $1; Mrs.
Archibald Hopkins. $1 : Mrs. Frank i
Guest Smith, $3; Mrs. William Cham-I
berlain, $2; S. Kann Sons & Co., a box j
of game* and penknives; Copenhaver, j
stationery; K. R. Andrews, stationery; ?
E. Morrison Raper Co.. stationery: i
Schrott Brothers, games; Mrs. M. M. |
Waller, a box of pipes and games; Mrs. I
William Crozier. 500 boxes of dominoes; i
Miss J. I). Strong, twenty pocket!,
knives; Miss Cummings, $1: Mrs. Ellen
N. Water, $10; Mrs. Hugh Wallace, $25; i
Mrs. Norman Williams, $25; Mrs. Levi ,
l\ Morton, $25; Mrs. Christian Hauge, I
$25; Mrs. Wesley Merritt. $25; Gen.!
Fitzhugh. $10; Mrs. Fitzhugh. $10; Col.
J. R. Kean, $5; Miss Meredith White- 1
house, $50; II. C. Moses, $30; I>r. J. C. ! ,
TTovd, $50; Mrs. Calderon Carlisle, $5;?.
C. C. Glover, jr.. $5; Mr. Deutch, $1,
and Mrs. Teresa McCagg, $5.
tfiu/nD!/ rnri cai/hdadi r!
iu Hui\r\ rui\ rnvuixrtDLL
ACTI ON MILITARY BILL!
Senator Chamberlain Thinks Something
Must Be Done to Secure
Adequate Defense Force. j
Senator '"hamberlain of Oregon, i j
chairman of the Seriate committee on i
military affairs, who has returned to f
Washington, in an interview said that J
he intended to seek in every way fa- j"
vorahle action on his bill for universal >
military service.
"My bill is pending before the coin-|
rnittee at present," said Senator Chan;- i
berlain. j
"l.'ndoubtedly a number of changes j
will have to oe made in the bill, but I j
think it 1s a good working basis, t n- I
less some legislation of this kind is)
enacted I do not know what will hap- j
pen. The experience the country has
had with the mobilization of the National
<?uard mi the border, arid the!
dilllculty which has been found in oh-J
taining enlistments in both the regular i
army and the National tluard clearly'
indicate that something must be done j
to provide an adequate force of trained !
men for the defense of the country iu J
case of war."
Senator t'hamberlain said that he!
thought sentiment in favor of univer- j
sal military training was growing j
throughout the country. .
Would Abolish Electoral College, j
Chamberlain said he hoped to perfect <
and Introduce was a joint resolution ^
providing for a constitutional amendment
for the direct election of Presi- |
dent and Vice President, doing away
with the electoral college. In this way.
he said, it would he possible to prevent
a great deal of the confusion which
now arises when, as in the case of New
York, forty-five electors must be
chosen.
Senator Chamberlain said that some ;
plan would have to be devised, of
course, to enable each state to retain
its proper representation in the vote
for President and Vice President. :
California "Drys'' Not Discouraged.
SAN FRANCISCO, November 29.?
The "dry" movement In California will |
not he allowed to languish despite the
defeat of two proposed prohibition
amendments at the last election, it was
announced today by the executive committee
of the California Dry Federation.
A committee was selected to consider
measures to go on the ballot and pre- |
pare plans for a campaign in their sup- 1 '
port, which will he continued yntil the I 1
state election in 1918.
Solf.StvlA^l Qontonpofl
uvi* wi<J1VU Xl&llVW WVUkVUVVU.
VENICE, via Paris, November 29, 3:30 .
a.m.?An individual calling himself
Prince Edward of Bourbon, pretender
to the throne of Albania, has been sentenced
to three years* imprisonment for J
defrauding hotels in the war zone. He 1
is said to be a gas collector of Milan i
named C&rJfEorito. 1
%
^ ^ I
Illlffw
FOODSTUFFSEMBARGO
Representative McLemore Flans Introduction
of Bill to Reducee
Present High Cost Prices.
Announcement that he would introduce
a bill before the House on the
first day of the coming session with
the purpose of reducing the present
high cost of foodstuffs was made this
morning by Representative MtLemore
of Texas. Mr. McLemore placed himself
on record as inclined to favor the
proposed embargo 011 the exportation
of foodstuffs, although desiring to reserve
his final decision until he has
seen the completed bill to be presented
bv Representative Fitzgerald.
The resolution to be presented by
Mr. McLemore contemplates a reduction
in the present high level of prices
by rendering it legally necessary for
ail those who store foodstuffs with the
cold storage plants for speculative purposes
to dispose of 10 per cent of goods
so stored every thirty days, selling at
ine prevailing inarK"i prions.
Failure ot comply with the law, if the
McLemore bill becomes such, will renler
the speculator liable to a fine not
xceeding $1,000 or imprisonment for a
r?erio<J not exceeding sixty days, or
both.
Questioned as to how it would be
legally established that storers of
foodstuffs were holding: their materials
for speculative purposes, Mr. McLemore
said that this would be accomplished
by means of affidavits sworn to by the
*torer.
Storag-e Owners to Make Affidavit.
Owners of the cold storage plants
would be required to make affidavit
o the percentage of foodstuffs disposed
j f by each individual storer during
ach thirty days, he said.
Discussing the proposed embargo on
he exportation of food supplies, Mr.
VIcLemore said that every indication
with which be is familiar showed that
esidents of The cities of the country
lesired the embargo and that those
who live in the country do not. He
:*xpressed the belief that some radical
Uep along "the lines proposed by Representative
Fitzgerald is essential, and
;aid that while the matter is under the
consideration of Congress it might he
well to go still further and place an
embargo on the exportation of munilions
of war.
That the embargo would be effective
is a means of reducing the current
high prices is the belief of the representative
from Texas, who said that he
probably would vote in favor of it.
though he desired to reserve his final
opinion on the matter until he has
seen the completed bill.
NAVY AWARDS CONTRACTS
FOR 9Q QIIRMARIMFQ
> vil <_ <y vv wmniiMiuv
Secretary Daniels today awarded contracts
for twenty-seven coast defense
and two Koo-ton fleet submarines.
Eighteen coast defense submersibles
went to th*- Electric Boat Company, at
Sd!>7,000 each; six to the Bake Torpedo
Boat Company, at $01>4,(IUO; three to
the California Shipbuilding Company,
on Bake designs, at $(il)S,0O0.
One fleet submarine went to the Electric
Boat Company, at $l,180,o<H>. and
the other to the I^ake company, at $1,1!)."?,()(H).
Some minor modifications remain to
be fixed, but the Navy Department has
insisted upon certain features of construction.
All the bills are close to the limit.
It will be about two years before the
first of the ships are delivered to the
government.
AT'-nmr LAVC A TO IT CP A TO r TO
UrXAV^JLi iJUlU
Elderly Men Employed by New
York Firms to Do Errands.
NEW YORK, November 29.?The
shortage of office and errand boys has
become so acute here that many buslless
firms are employing elderly men
tor the work usually performed by
.
youngsters. The difficulty in getting
juvenile office boys is attributed to the
present boom in business. Columns of
want ads and window signs of "boys
wanted" testify to the situation.
The head of one of the largest printing
and publishing houses in New j
York, which now depends almost entirely
upon men of fifty or sixty for
work previously done by boys, declares
that the elderly office boys give better
i satisfaction. He attributes the shortj
age of boys largely to the fact that
many parents who formerly put their
boys at work after they completed !
grammar school are now giving them
a better education.
Coming to Confer With Lansing.
THIS HAGUE, via London. November
29, 8:58 a.m.?H. A. Van Coenan Torchiana,
Dutch consul general at San Francisco,
who has been here in conference
with the Netherlands government, has
been ordered to Washington on a special
inission to confer with Secretary
of State Lansing. Mr. Van Coenan
Torchiana will sail for the United
States Tuesday on the Holland liner j
Noordam.
DCATTV OTQ PflMMANn
ULMI I hULIU UUITIIIIrtllU
OF BRITISH GRAND FLEET
; Admiral Jellicoe Appointed First
Sea Lord of the
Admiralty.
DONDON, November L'9.?Admiral
Sir John R. Jellico. commander of
the British fleet, was today appointed
first sea lord of the admiralty, being
succeeded in command of the grand i
fleet by Vice. Admiral Sir David lieattv, !
who commanded the British battle j
j squadron in the Jutland naval battle. :
j Admiral Sir Henry K. Jackson, the j
! present first sea lord, has been appoint- j
i ed president of the Royal Naval College j
j at (I rep nw icli.
I The announcement of the change in j
j command of the British grand fleet j
| was made this afternoon in the house I
i of lords bv A. J. Balfour lr.r/1
i the admiralty. Mr. Balfour said there '
j would be consequential changes also \
i in the board of the admiralty.
!
RELIEVE CAR SHORTAGE.
Northwestern Railroads Put Ore Carriers
Into Coal Trade.
j Further relief of the existing- car
; shortage all over the United States has
I bpen provided by the northwestern
J railroads, which have agreed to put :
j 16,500 of the ore cars in the coal-car- '
rying trade. These cars will be used i
j by the Chicago and Northwestern and J
' the Soo lines and their connections, '
I according to an announcement of the!
j American Railway Association's con-j
j ference committee on car efficiency.
I All roads having on their lines more
j box cars than they themselves own
| had been ordered to move the excess, i
! loaded or empty, toward lines which
I have fewer cars than they own. Within !
i the past week orders for the return to
1 their owners of coal and fruit cars
j have been issued.
I i
THANKSGIVING
DAY.
The regular edition of
The Star will he issued
tomorrow at 1 o'clock
and delivered at once
throughout the city.
Classified Advertisements
must be in The
Star oftice by 10:30 a.m.
to insure insertion in to^
morrow's Star.
' POWER PROJECT HAS
SETBACK BY REPORT
i "Thorough Studies" Are Needed
Before Work at Great
Falls Is Begun.
VIEWS OF U. S. ENGINEERS
The proposed development of the
Great Falls water power project by
the government should not be under- I
taken until "thorough studies" have
been made into all the phases of the
project, according to a report made to
the Secretary of War by a board of
engineer officers appointed last Mayj
to look into the subject.
Secretary Baker of the War Department
has agreed to this finding of the
board, and unless Congress should de
termine otherwise and go ahead with
appropriations for the water-power
project there appears little probability
of any further steps being taken at
this time to bring about this development.
Friends of the waterpower project
today admitted that they had little
hope of accomplishing results under
the present administration, in view of
the report of the engineer board and
the concurrence of the Secretary of
War in this view. They pointed out
that investigation after investigation
has been made into the plan to develop
waterpower in the Potomac river
above Washington for the purpose of
supplying the government and the District
with power and light; that these
reports have been favorable, and in
1H13, under Col. Langfitt of the Engineer
Corps, an exhaustive and favorable
report was made, complete in
every detail. Congress appropriated
$2U,i>uu to make the investigation conducted
by Col. Langfitt, and the entire
sum was expended and every detail of
the project was worked out.
Appropriations Now Unlikely.
For the Secretary of War to recom
ment a further investigation at this
time has well nigh- killed the hope
for the project, it was said. For it is
not considered likely that Congress,
with the report of the Secretary and
board before it, will make appropriations
for the project.
The engineer board which has reported
to the Secretary of War consists
of Col. Henry C. Newcomer.
Lieut. Col. Clement A. Flagler and
Lieut. Col, William W. Harts. The
conclusions set forth in the report are j
as follows:
"1. That the development of water
power in the vicinity of Great Falls
j of the Potomac river is feasible.
I "2. That the development, if undertaken,
should follow approximately the
lines of the Langfltt-Herschel project
of 1913.
"3. That the development, if under- j
taken, should provide for an average
daily horsepower of about $6,000, with
installation for a peak load of 150,000.
Cost of Development, $14,000,000.
"4. That the cost of the development
at the site alone (exclusive of
transmission to market and deliverv tn !
consumer) will be about $14,000,000.
"5. That the unit of cost of power
delivered from such development at
the bus bars of a central station in
Washington would be about 3.6 mills
if all the power is used, and that such
cost is little if any cheaper than could
be obtained by a steam plant. An
article in the Engineering Record of
May -7, 1916, referring to the development
of 60,000 kilowatt steam-turbine
generators, says "a manufacturing cost
of 2 mills per kilowatt hour is not so
far away as it used to be.' Some figures
obtained by the District officer
from the (Jeneral Electric Company indicate
that with a large steam plant
of about 60.000 kilowatt installation
bus bar current could be furnished, including
fixed charges, operation and
maintenance, at 4.45 mills at a load
factor of 50 per cent and 3.72 mills at
one of 80 per cent.
"6. That the advisability of developing
this power depends very largely on
the market, and that funds should be
provided for a detailed canvass of the
local market and a study of cost of distribution
to all commercial consumers
before any opinion of value can be expressed.
Service of Experts Needed.
"The board is convinced that before
the United States embarks on a project
of this magnitude thorough studies
should be made of all its phases. This
will require provision of adequate funds
and the services of experts who can
give their undivided attention to the
subject.
"The District officer in a report in
review ?of this project to the chief of
engineers, dated May 31, 1916, states
that 'the best plan would he tc secure
the services of ('apt. Rose or Capt. Atkinson
of the Corps of Engineers, or, if
this is not practicable, of a civilian j
expert, preferably a young: man, who '
can devote his entire time to it. Ten I
thousand dollars is considered a fair!
estimate of the cost of such examination.'
Discusses Market for Power.
The report discusses the market for
power which may be developed by the
water power plant proposed. It points
out that the needs of the federal government
and of the District government
for light and power, exclusive of
the lighting of the streets, will by no
means use up all the power generated
by the proposed plant. It points out
that if the government then sells this
power to private consumers it may In
the future need this power, and that if
it does not sell the power, then it will
operate the plant at a loss.
"'At a price at which power could be
furnished, complete development, it is
probable that manufacturing interests
could be induced to locate in the vicinity
of Washington. Factories are most
satisfactory consumers, as their con
sumption is quite regular during: work- |
ingr hours, and if they work night and
day the load factor is very high, and
will raise considerably the general load
factor with consequent reduction in
costs. The most satisfactory classes of
factories are those for the manufacture
of aluminum. calcium carbide,
carborundum, caustic soda. chlorine,
phosperous. bisulphide of carbon,
graphite and nitrogen products. j
Danger of Water Pollution, 1
"Many of these industries, in the j
process of manufacture, create liquid ;
refuse of objectionable nature and j
should not be permitted to locate along I
the Potomac above the mouth of the
Anacostia and particularly above the
Aqueduct dam, where such refuse
might enter the city water supply.
"It might even be advisable to seek
markets for the surplus current in ,
(Continued on Second P^(e.)
RUMANIAN RETREAT
PRECIPITATE ALONG
WALLACHIA FRONT
Situation of Bucharest's Defenders
Grows More Critical
as Teutons Progress.
GOVERNMENT SAID
TO HAVE MOVED CAPITAL
Russians Strike Hard Near Kirli
baba. Possibly in Endeavor
to Aid Ally.
The situation of the Rumanian armies
defending Bucharest appears increasingly
critical.
Only to the northwest of the capital
do the Rumanian lines seem to be holding
at all firmly, and even here the
capture of Ourtea de Arges. on the
Argenehu river, although that point
is eighty miles distant from Bucharest,
seems to indicate a weakening: of the
Rumanian resistance in this direction.
On the southwest the peril Is Imminent,
with the enveloping: movement of
the central powers placing- their fort^ea
| within forty miles of the capital.
News dispatches have reported the
Rumanian government and diplomatic
officials leaving- Bucharest for J assy,
j 200 miles northeast of the capital, near
the Russian frontier.
Flanked Out of Position.
The rapid progress made by Oen. von
Falkenhayn's armies moving east in
Rumania, of course, has been largely
made possible by the operation of the
Danube forces under Field Marshal von
Mackensen. Flanked out of the Alt valley
position by the crossing of the river
at Zimnitza, the Rumanian line along
the Vedea, running: diagonally northwest
from the Danube, likewise is imperiled
by the Teutonic occupation of
Giurgiu, an advance from which would
quickly compel a Rumanian retreat.
It still remains to be developed
whether the process of flanking the
Rumanians out of their positions is to
be continued by other crossings of the
Danube still farther east. The southern
bank of the river is held by the troops
of the central powers to a point beyond
Tchernavoda.
Disorderly Retreat Claimed.
I That the retreat of the Rumanians toward
the nearer defenses of Bucharest
already is under way and is a precipitate
one is indicated by today's German
official statement, which announces a
disorderly retirement of the Rumanian
forces along the entire Wallachlan
front before Gen. von Falkenhayn's
steady advance. Von Mackensen's
Danube armies are marching forward
in a corresponding advance.
Possibly as a diversion in aid of tha
| Rumanians the Russians have taken
I the offensive near Kirlibaba, on the
Golden Bistritza, in the Carpathians
northwest of the Rumanian frontier.
Attacks here. Petrograd reports, netted
them the ridges of heights east and
south of Kirlibaba and the capture of
more than 700 prisoners. Berlin declares
the Russian attacks, delivered at many
points along the Carpathian and western
Moldavian front, resulted only in
local successes which were paid fop
dearly.
Russians Claim Capture
of Ridges of Heights
in Kirlibaba Region
By the Associated Press.
PETROGRAD, November 29, via Eon*
don, 2:10 p.m.?Russian, troops adv&no*
ing on the Teutonic lines east and
south of Kirlibaba, In the southern
Carpathians, have captured the rldgefl
of heights there and taken 711 prls*
oners, the war office announced todays
The size of Field Marshal von Macla*
ensen's force that crosed the Danuba
near Zimnltza and established at least
partial union with Gen. von Falken*
hayn's army, advancing from the north*
has been underestimated in the early
reports, according to the most recent
Information from Rumania. The full
strength of this group Is not yet
known, although some estimates place
It at upward of two divisions, with
the major part German troops. But it
is evident, according to the viewpoint
here, that the movement can no longer
be called a demonstration.
May Concentrate Forces.
Russian military experts declare that
the fate of Bucharest depends largely
upon the success of the Rumanian left
flank in. extricating itself from the
difficult position created by von FaU
kenhayn's swift invasion from the
north, now made more embarrassing
by the deep penetration of the forces
which crossed the DatAibe. It is be*
lieved here that with the loss of western
Wallachia, the Rumanians will
concentrate all tneir lorcea oeioro
Bucharest in order to save the capital.
Col. Shumsky. military critio of the
Bourse Gazette, tinds encouragement
in the fact that the main enemy forces
are still engaged near Campulung, and
cannot spare enough men to strike A
decisive blow from the west.
Railroad to Bucharest '
From Tchernavoda Is
Destroyed in Retreat
LONDON. November 29.?Dispatches
from the German armies in Rumania,
says an Exchange Telegraph dispatch
from Copenhagen yesterday, report that
* Viqita HiiotrnuoH 1 }iA n i!.
I no n.uiuaiua.10 I.~?v, ?
way from Tchernavoda to Bucharest and
are burning all the villages and stores o?
food in the course of their retreat.
With the forces of the central powers
in possession?according to German official
reports, which hitherto have proved
accurate with regard to recent events in
Rumania?of Curtea de Arges. an important
railway terminal ninety miles
from Bucharest, and (Jiurgia. on the railway
forty miles southwest of the capital,
anxiety as to the fate of Bucharest is
greatly increased.
4 Questions Being Asked.
It is impossible to doubt that the
situation is viewed here with the
greatest misgivings. The question ia
being frankly asked whether the accession
of Rumania to the entente allies'
cause has brought str^gth og
