THIS PAPER Issued In
two sections Section
two—Pages 1 to 6— Lo
cal news, stories, corre
spondence and Deniaon
locals.
VOL. 51
MANY DINNERS
ON THANKSGIVING
Thanksgiving to be Observed in Deni
son Homes When Family Reunions
and Friendly Dinners Are Held
SOCIAL EVENTS OF THE WEEK
Japanese Tea Given by Queen Esther
Circle One of Events of Week
Woodman Circle Entertain.
Thanksgiving day will be celebrated
in a number of Denison homes by
large family and friendly dinners.
Quite a few fare entertaining guests
from out of the city. This occasion
is always looked forward to, quite as
much as the holiday season by some,
and it is always quite an honor to bo
a guest on this eventful day.
Those whose plans are made for
large dinners are Dr. and Mrs. Plimp
ton will have Mr. and Mrs. E. T.
Pegtly and Miss Edna, from Des
Moines with them, Mr. and Mrs. O.
A. Patterson will have guests from
town and Miss Scriver, of Omalia. Dr.
and Mrs. R. O. McConnaughey will
have Mrs. Lucetta McConnaughey and
Mr. Harlow Mills, from Benzonia,
Mich Mi38 Grace McConnaughey,
from Nonh China mission, in Sliansi,
China, Who is here on a furlough al
so Mr. and Mrs. John Sewell, from
Fremont, Neb., and Miss Ernestine
Mills, of Story City. Mr. and Mrs.
Eugene Gulick will have their chil
dren and grandchildren together with
Mr. Earl Shaw, of New York. 'A. C.
Balle's are having their relatives and
friends with them. Mr. and Mrs. 0.
F. Kuehnle will have one of the larg
est dinners probably, Misses Amanda
and Marie Miller, of Independence,
being their only out of town guests.
l)r. and Mrs. P. J. Brannon will have
,MrB. P. IS. C. Lally and family as their
guests, Mr. Morgan Cornwall, of
Spencer, being their only out of town
guest. Mr. and Mrs. J. W. Miller, Jr.
will have the E. J. Miller family from
Denison and Mr. and Mrs. J. W. Mill
er, Sr., from Mannipg, with them. Mr.
and Mrs. R. P. Conner will have quite
a large dinner. Mr. and Mrs. William
H. Dudley, from Council Bluffs, and
Mr. and Mrs. Allan Dudley, from
Omaha, are the 6nly out of town
guests. Mrs. Statey will have quite
a few guests with her for Thanksgiv
ing and it will be a genuine treat for
all the fortunate ones. Mr. and Mrti.
Harry Carpenter will entertain at a
Thanksgiving dinner and among their
guests Will be Mrs. E. M. Bemis and
daughter, Pearl, of Estherville. Mr.
/JMra Carl Richardson will have
xi guests,, those from out of town
jfeing Miss Delia Moberly, of Ames
Mrs. L. A. Armour, of Sioux City, and
Mr. E. A. Child, of Des Moines. Mr.
and Mrs. Geo. Naeve will have just
their immediate family with them on
Thursday.,
I Current Events club enjoyed a very
^pleasant afternoon and evening in the
sclub rooms on Thursday, the usual
ill program being carried out and fol
lowed by a covered dish supper. This
J^AS
indeed a treat to the large num
members present
C. M. Dybbro was a very
iT. rming hostess on Thursday after-
A.i, when she entertained the mem
of Rntre Nous club and several
ts. This is a new club and well
•W'l wl|l'i for all the enjoyment that
'Mr .Vored a members. As this new
wlizaK is a sewing club the af
ipln was devoted to it, followed
yjvery delicious two course sup
iU'jrved at small tables attract
iVlippointed with chrysanthemums
Cvr'/lever
place cards. The next
Jl'/thg will be with Mrs. Robert
r• i* number of ladies spent a very
1 easant afternoon on Thursday at
I the home of Mrs. Chris Otto. A most
unusual form, of pleasure was indulged
in, it being a "quilting party." Ea^li
guest worked on the quilt, which we
have been told, is quite a beautiful
piece. After the sewing was put
away a most elaborate supper awaited
the company, being served at tables
which were very pretty with the var
ious Thanksgiving flowers and cards.
The adult bible class of the Presby
terian church was entertained by the
teacher, Mrs. C. M. Jensen at her
'home oil Thursday. The after
noon was most enjoyably spent in vis
iting and games, the guessing one
which was "played creating quite a bit
of merriment, and Mrs. Fullock won
the prize, having answered more ques
tions than anyone present. Most de
licious refreshments were served lute
In the afternoon at tables which were
very lovely with Thanksgiving decora
tions.
A few neighbors and friends of Mrs.
C. D. Miller and Miss Ethel Miller
met at the home of Mrs. A. I). Ran
dall for an informal tea and handker
chief shower in their honor,as a fare
well party before they leave for Cali
fornia for the winter.
The Woodman circle entertained at
a most unusual party last evening in
the form of a masquerade and a large
number of members, were present to
enjoy the fun as well as the excellent
1
program which consisted of several
musical selections, Miss Vern Eggers
favoring them with a vocal solo and
the Misses Lorenzen, Kirkoff and Olry
with several orchestra selections. Mr.
Helsley and Miss Solllnger recitfed
some very clever pieces which added
greatly to the evening's pleasures. Af
ter the program refreshments were
served. Great credit is due the chair
man for the success of this affair.
On page five of the first section an
nouncement is made that Mrs. O. M.
Criswell will entertain Penelope on
Tuesday, November 28th. This is in
correct. Penelope will meet Tuesday,
Miss Alice Stevens was hostess at
S. S. on Tuesday evening. After a
delicious lap supper a very delightful
program was carried out and the
pleasant evening passed quickly.
Mr. and Mrs. C. L, Voss entertained
Mrs. Rachel Goodrich and daughters,
Miss Jessie, of Denison, and Mrs. Mar
garet DeWolf, of Washington, D. C„
at a very lovely dinner on Monday eve
ning. The table was very pretty in
all of its Thanksgl ing attire of yel
low and white chrysanthemums and
attractive place cards.
The Woman's club met with Mrs.
Lulu Woodruff on Monday afternoon.
After a most interesting program,
which took up a greater part of the af
ternoon, the time was devoted to a gen
eral social houf, followed by a most
delicious supper, served at small
tables which were most becoming in
their pretty -appointments and small
vases of button chrysanthemus.
The Japanese tea given last Satur
day by the Queen Esthers seems to
have established itself as an annual
effent and one looked forward to. The
McKim hall, where the affair was
held, took on a very suitable appear
ance with huge Japanese umbrellas,
lanterns, screens and small. tables
laid daintily with Japanese linens,
chrysanthemums and pen and ink
menu cards cleverly executed by Miss
Mildred Bowen. At noon luncheon
was served, a great many of the teach
ers from the study center taking ad
vantage of the service. Afternoon tea
was followed by a splendid patronage
of the cafeteria supper from 5 to 8 pr
m. The girls worked hard, gave of
money, time and energy towards the
success of the function and are appre
ciative of the cooperation of friends
from the general public. The Queen
Esther circle is an organization for
young women, under the Woman's
Home Missionary society of the Meth
odist church. Locally, they are very
happy and appreciative of the fact
that several from sister churches be
long, adding materially to the strength
of the society, not only by service ren
dered, but by reason of this sweet
spirit of .unity and "the tic that binds"
people in any effort for the uplift of
others. The bulk of the net proceeds
of the "tea," some $60, will go at once
into definite educational work among
the mountain whites of the southland.
The F. H. club held Its regular
meeting with Mrs. John Rohwer last
Friday afternoon. The hostess furn
ished needle work and at the close of
the afternoon served an elegant sup
per, assisted by Misses Hilda Rohwer,
and Mabel Kelly. Mrs. Hilda Catron,
of North Dakota, was the only out of
town guest present.
Miss Fern Eggers was hostess to
twelve guests at a very delightful din
ner Thursday evening in honor of Mr.
Frank Gadd and Miss Mae Magner, of
Raymond, S. D.
One of the prettiest parties of the
social season was given by Mr. and
Mrs. P. E. O'Conncll at their home
Sunday evening, it being the occasion
of their eighteenth wedding annivers
ary. The color scheme of pink and
white was carried out successfully,
both in the decorations and in the re
freshments. About sixty guests were
present. The out of town guest*
were Mr. and Mrs. J. H. Houston, Mr.
P. J. Houston, Miss Margaret O'Con
nell. Miss Margaret Houston and Mr.
John Houston, all of Dunlap.
A very pleasant social time was had
at the county home Sunday when Mr.
and Mrs. Blackman entertained at a
one o'clock dinner. Cbvers were
laid for sixteen at one long table. The
centerpiece used was a basket of frut,
edged with pine. The main feature of
^the well appointod menu was roast
turkey with all the trimmings and
good things that go to make up a good
dinner. Their guests were Mr. anil
Mrs. Chris Bonesock. of Manning
Mr. and Mrs. Herb Fishel, of Deni
son Mr. and Mrs. Hans Haggc, of
Charter Oak Mr. and Mrs. Dieter, of
Vail Mr. and Mrs. Henry Kolls, of
Denison Mr. and Mrs. John Holland,
of Vail, and Mr. and Mrs. Martin
NehIs and two children, of Buck
Grove.
Mr. and Mrs. Howard Cole left this
afternoon for Des Moines, where they
will spend Thanksgiving with, thoir
daughters, Luella and Ruth. Mrs.
Cole will remain in Des Moires until
next week, Mr. Cole returning Friday.
Mrs. R. W. Lownes returned last
week from Rochester, Minn., where
she lias been -for the past three weeks
at the hospital. Mrs. Lownes under
went an operation while there, having
a tumor removed from her face. We
are glad to report that she returned
home in much better health.
BOARD DECIDES
ON TWO DESIGNS
Supervisors Meet Again With Old Sol
'diers and Go Over Plans for Mon
ument to be Erected.
PLANS, SPECIFICATIONS ORDER'D
Old Soldiers Are Well Pleased With
Manner in Which the Board is
Handling the Proposition.
The board of supervisors met with
the comniitte of old veterans last Wed
nesday at the court house for the pur
pose of looking over the designs for.
the monument to be erected on the
court house square in memory of the
old soldiers who fought in the civil
war. All of the designs were carefully
gone over and after due consideration
two designs were selected. One was
the work of Joe Goss, of Denison, and
the other of W. B. Wayt & Son, of
Sac City. The board has instructed
both parties to draw up plans and
specifications of the twd monuments
and have them on file at the court
house December 4th after which time
the county will advertise for bids for
the construction of both, and after the
bids are received will decide which
monument is to be erected.
Both designs are beautiful and it
was almost impossible for the board
and the old settlers to come to a de
cision as to which would be the most
suitable. The monument designed by
•Mr. Goss will weigh 115 tons when
completed and is a most .imposing one
being 33 feet high. Mr. G'oss lias spent
considerable time in designing it and
those familiar with stone work consid
er it an exceptionally fine piece of
work. Of course it is hoped that the
design of Mr. Goss will finally bo ac
cepted in as much as he is a local man.
The Wayt monument will weigh 77 1-2
tons when In place and will stand 34
feet and 6 inches in height.
We understand that the board has
promised Mie Sac City contracttor 3
per cent of the contract price of the
monument if his design is not accept
ed to defray the expenses of prepar
ing plans and specifications. This
will amount to in the neighborhood of
$270.00.
The old soldiers are well pleased
with the manner in which the board
are handling the matter and believe
the monument, when built, will be a
credit to Crawford county.
BRYAN BUYS OUT WILSON.
Sensational Rumor Circulated Around
Denison Run Down by Review Re
porter and Found to be True.
A sensational rumor was circulated
around Denison the first of the week
that Bryan had bought out Wilson. All
of the particulars seemed to bo known
by a few well Informed peonle who
stated emphatically that the deal was
closed and that Bryan would take pos
session January 1st.
The Review's sub reporter was given
the assignment and at once had visions
of a front page article with a six deck
head. Bryan, of grape juice fame, buy
ing out President Wilson? What
could it mean? Had the Nebraska
startesman, erstwhile secretary of
state, taken an option on President
Wilson's job and finally turned the
deal? Had he forced Wilson Into the
deal knowing that he was too proud
to fight to retain that which rightful
ly belonged to him. No reporter over
went out of a newspaper office with
greater hopes than did the cub report
er.
After chasing down every rumor
and interviewing person after person
who had an inkling of the deal it was
found that Blane Wilson had disposed
of his residence in Denison to Eld
ridge Bryan, of Arion, who will take
possession of the same January 1st,
the deal being made by the J. W. Mill
er, Jr. real estate agency. The big
story was exploded and it was a
chagrined reporter that returned to
this office and turned in the true story.
Mr. A. F. Barber, of Charter Oak,
was in Denison Monday transacting
business.
Mrs. Sarah Itosengren and three
children, of Minneapolis, are visiting
at the home of Mr. and Mrs. J. L.
Scott. Mrs. Rosengren will be romem
bered as Miss Sarah Watson, and for
years made her homo in Denison.
S. G. Wright was compelled to aban
don a part of his western commercial
trip on account of illness, and return
ed iionio Monday evening. He is muc'i
improved, however, and will no doubt
finish his work before the holidays.
Mrs. E. P. Williams moved her
household goods Tuesday from the
Baptist parsonage and will occupy
rooms with Mrs. Dunbar in the house
just west of the Presbyterian parson
age. Mrs. Williams lias been occupy
ing tho pulpit in the Congregational
church at Arion for the past few Sun
days.
Menagh's Great Christmas Sale
is now in progress and ends Saturday, December 23. We would advise early purchasing while
our stocks are complete. Read our announcements on pages 3 and 4 of 1st section and page 3 this section.
THE DENISON REVIEW
THE PAPER YOU TAKE HOME
THE DENISON REVIEW, WEDNESDAY, NOV. 22, 1916.
MARRIED
Miss Alice Behen Becomes the Bride
of Mr. William Murphy on Last
Wednesday, November 22d.
An event of much interest occurred
on Wednesday, November 22d, when
Miss Alice Behen, daughter of Mr. P.
E. Behen of this place, became the
bride of Mr. William Murphy, son of
Mr. and Mrs. J. M. Murphy, of Dunlap.
The ceremony took place at St. Rose
of Lima Catholic church, Rev. M. J.
Farrelly officiating. Promptly at 7:30
a. m. the bridal party entered the
church to the strains of Lohengrin's
wedding march, beautifully rendered
by Miss Marguerite Haugh. The bride
was stunningly gowned in a traveling
costume of dark blue panne silk vel
vet trimmed in ermine and wore a
large picture hat of blue georgette
crepe over gold cloth trimmed with
a bird of paradise in natural color,
and wore a beautiful corsage bouquet
of bride's roses and lilies of the val
ley. The groom' was attired in a suit
of blue serge. The1 bride's sister,
Mjss Elizabeth Behen, and the groom's
brother. Mr. John Murphy, were the
only attendants. During the cere
mony Mr. R. E. Quirk, brother-in-law
of the groom, beautifully sang the
"Ave Maria" and "I Love You Truly,"
Onfy the immediate relatives and
friends were in atter^dance. After the
ceremony the briijal party repaired to
the home of the bride, where an ele
gant three course breakfast was serv
ed under the supervision of Miss An
na McCarthy.
The bride, a beautiful and accomp
lished young lady, has grown to wo
manhood in this locality and is very
popular among the social circles. Tliej
groom is a young man of sterling
qualities and needs no introduction.
Mr. and Mrs. Murphy departed on
the noon train amid a shower of rise
and old shoes for a honeymoon trip
in the east, where they will visit the
groom's uncle, Dr. J. H. Murphy, and
other relatives. After their return
they will be dt home to their friends
on a farm owned by the groom two
miles west of Dunlap.
COMMERCIAL CLUB
PUNS NEW HONE
Club Considering Proposition to Lease
Third Floor of New Lochmiller
Garage on Sweet Street.
BUILDING IS TO MEASURE 9x110
Mr. Lochmiller Purchases.. Swoboda
Property, Together With Nelson
Property for New Garage.
Members of the Commercial club
are considering a proposition made by
Mr. 11. G. Lockmiller to rent the third
story of the new garage building which
he will erect just south of the hotel
Denison for new quarters for the com
mercial club.
Mr. Lockmiller lias purchased the
Goss Monument works property as
well as the old blacksmith shop and
has planned to erect a two story brick
building on this site for a garage. He
now proposes to add a third story to
the building and arrange it to suite
the convience of the Commercial club.
The building will measure 90x110
feet and it is proposed to devote the
entire third ffoor to the Commercial
club dividing it up into several rooms
including a reading room, billiard
room, etc. If the Comniercal club de
cides to lease the third floor, it is said
Mr. Lockmiller will install an auto
matic elevator.
The Commercial club has been con
sidering making a change in quarters
for the past year or two owing to the
fact that the membership has so in
creased that the present quarters are
too cramped. The matter will be tak
en up by tho club at it's next meeting
which will be on Friday evening of
this week.
The Ernest Hulsebus sale, hekl last
Wednesday, was one of the most suc
cessful held this season. Mr. Hulse
bus tells us that lie had a good crowd
of buyers present and received a
thousand dollar:* more than he had ex
pected. Ho is loud in his praises of
the Malone Bros, who cried the sale.
Mr. Hulsebus used space in the Re
view for two weeks.
In the last issue of the Review we
announced that Dr. H. H. Fairbank*.
United States veterinary inspector,
would speak to the farmers of this vi
cinity at the court house on Saturday
afternoon, December 2d. Dr. Fairbank
informs us that ho may not be able to
be here on that date, but that C. L.
Miller, a prominent, veterinarian of Ft.
Dodge, would lecture. The lecture
will be on hogcholera, its control and
prevention, a topic which is of vital
interest to farmers in the corn belt.
No admission fee will be charged and
it is hoped that farmers from every
section of the county will be in attend
ance.
STUDY CENTER
WELL ATTENDED
One Hundred and Thirty Teachers At
tend Meeting Held Saturday—
Next Meeting January 20th.
SPECIALISTS FROM CEDAR FALLS
Teachers From All Sections of County
Well Pleased with Talks by Spe
cialists—Much Good Gained
The study center meeting held in
Denison last Saturday was attended
by 130 teachers, most of whom were
rural teachcjrs from all sections of the
county who are always anxious to-se
cure material to use in their schools.
The grade teachers made a good show
ing.
All of the instructors were secured
by County Supt. F. N. Olry from the
State Teachers' college at Cedar Falls
and all were specialists in one partic
ular branch. These professors are
sent out to study center meetings in
the state and are carrying on a good
work.
Prof. G. W. Sampson gave some in
teresting and helpful talks on the fol
lowing subjects: System vs Sympa
thy, Discipline, Class Rivalry, Athlet
ics and Pupil Government. Professor
Sampson has the young people at
heart and believes that the best way
to accomplish results is by sympathy
and kindness.
Prof. C. A. Fullerton gave the teach
ers many practical suggestions in the
teaching of music. He knows music
and the results to expect and how to
interest all. His talks were enjoyed
by all.
Prof. C. H. Brown gave the teachers
much work in manual training that is
of use in the rural and grade schools.
His work was exceptionally good and
the teachers secured many valuable
suggestions.
The next study center as planned
by Professor Olry will be held in Den
ison on January 20th. The subjects
for discussion will be Language, His
tory, Civics and Reading.
Below we print the list of names of
the teachers in attendance at tho
meeting last Saturday:
Hazel Aebischer, Mary A. Brown,
Winnie Browne, Herman Blume, Clara
Blume, Stanley Brown, Birdie Berg.
Vera Booclt, Myrtle Barber, Mabel
Barber, Viola Brockelsby, Pearl Beau
mont. Clifford Browne, Mabel £}, Cole,
Hilda Christiansen, Mae Collins, Ellen
Collins, Susie Craft, Lillian Cranny.
Faye Chamberlain, Nellie Caulfield,
Nellie D. Cosgrove, Marie CoUins, El
sa Cornforth. Nellie J. Caster, Kath
ryn Cavanaugh, Grace Tarpy. Nelle
B. Collins. Alice Dobler, Margaret
Dalton, Melvina Driscioll, Adalene
Driscoll, J. B. Diesenroth, Florence
England, Flo French. Anna Mae Fitz
simmons, Leon a Fitzpatrick, Mary
Farrelly,,. Agnes Goddard, Clara D.
GrobeewCatherine Gaffey, Minnie Giss.
Margaret F. Gaughan. Ella Gaughan,
Mary Giss, Bessie A. Hunt, Marie. Hen
ry, Rosella Houlihan, Martha Hird,
Hannah Hefferman, Lucile D. Har
grave. Ethpl Howe, Marion Harring
ton. Estelle Hickey, Alta How®. Irene
Hickey, Bula M. Hover, Julia Johnson,
Mrs. Helen Johnston, Anna Janssen.
Alice James. Leona Johnston, Marion
Johnson. Helen Krai, Clara Krull,
Ruby M. Kelly, Bessie Lutts, Hester
Lingle, Grace Murchland, Blanche
Murchland, Agnes MeGrath, Elsie
McAndrews, Birdie Metcalf, Elizabeth
McGinn, Grace Marshall, Myrtle Mc
Mahon, Ellen Murphy, Alfreda McCol
lough, Effie Norris, Marie Nievoohner,
Irene O'Brien, Lillian Olson, Agnes
Owens, lister M. Petrina, Mary A.
Peters, Ruth Peterson, Marie Perry,
Josephine Pruehs, Anna L. Powers,
Kate Rusterholz, Grace M. Robb, Sup't
C. C. Rundall, Edna V. Raine, Emma
P. Rabourn. Margaret Regan, Florence
Vande Steeg, Ruth Saxton, Blanehe
Sperry, Gertrude Schwab, Blanche
Slechta, Nora Stephenson, Ludwig
Siegner, Ruth Tucker, Sarah Trexel,
Violet, Tempest, Mabel Thompson,
Bertha Tatroe, Hilda Turnlund, Sup't.
W. L. Tupper. Sister M. Vincent, Prof.
W. C. VanNess, Winifred Wright,
Irene Welsh, Emogene Welsh, Mrs.
Anna Williams. Violet Wells, Margar
et, 'McHenry, Hazel Waggoner, Pearl
•T. Wilson, Mildred Wiggins', Clara
Williamson, Emma E. Wilken, Corne
lia C. Work, Anna Zimmer, Sister M.
Angela, Christine Anderson, Charlotte
Anderson, Otto R. Bliesman, Sister,
M. Hilda, Sister M. Hyacintho.
The married folks of Denisoh have
organized a dancing club and on last
evening enjoyed the first of a series
of dances which are to be held on ev
ery other Tue=dav. Music last eve
ning was furnished bv Mr. and Mrs. D.
E. Voss and Mr. J. V. Barbor)ca.
Fanners who intend holding sales
and having Malone Bros, for their
auctioneers should arrange with them
at once for dates. Malone Bros, have
their calendar at tho Review office and
farmers may secure dates here. Jfrom
all indications they will have. ^ew. .va
cant dates* during the sale season.
OBITUARY
Died, at her home in Denison, Iowa,
where slie has resided with her sons,
Jerry and Janjes, since the'spring of
1902, Mrs. Mary O'Connor, aged 86
years, 8 months and 7 days, on Nov
ember 24, 1916, at 11:30 p. m.
Mrs. O'Connor was. the daughter of
Thomas O'Connor and Bridget (Quirk)
O'Connor, and was born in the parish
of Camp county, Kerry, Ireland, on
March, 17, 1830. She attended the
convent school at Milltown near Kill
arney, Ireland until she was about
twelve years old, when she emigrated
to Canada, with her grandmother, and
some of her uncles and aunts, who set
tled on farms in the vicinity of Strat
ford Canada. She remained in Can
ada until she grew to young woman
hood, when she came to the United
States and joined her parents, then
living in La Salle, 111., where she be
came acquainted and later married
John O'Connor in 1860.
Eleven children were born to this
union, those now living being, Maurice
of Vail, Mrs. Nellie Magner, of Deni
son, Jerry and James, of Denison,
Michael, of Kansas City, Kan., and
Mrs. John Mcehan, of Manilla. Those
who proceeded her in death were a
twin brother of Maurice's, who died
in infancy. Katie, Mary, and John, all
young children, and Thomas, who died
a few years ago. All of her living
children were present during her last
sickness, and were at her bed-side
when she passed away. She leaves
surviving lier, the above named child
ren, sixteen grandchildren, and one
great-grandchild.
The funeral was held Monday, Nov.
27, 1916, at 10 o'clock a. in., from St.
Rose of Lima's Catholic church in
Denison, Iowa. A solemn requim high
Mass was celebrated with Rev. Fath
er M. J. Farrelly as celbrant. Rev.
Father Lynch, of Manilla, as Deacon,
and Rev. Father James Murphy, of
Vail, as sub-Deacon. The sermon was
preached by Father Farrelly, and was
an eulogy of her Christian virtues,
and a tribute to her life's accomplish
ments.
A great procession of automobiles
followed her remains to the Catholic
cemetery near Denison* where her
body was consigned to the grave be
side the bodies of her husband and
two of her children, by her four sons
and two sons-in-law, who carried the
casket as pall bearers.
Relatives present at the funeral from
a distance were, Mrs. Annie Horri
gan, a sister, and the only surviving
member of the, family to which the
deceased belonged Mrs. Patrick
O'Connor, a sister-in-law Thomas
O'Connor Michael O'Connor Ed
Horrigan Geo. Gilmore Mrs. Andrew
Clark, and baby Mrs. Maher, and
Miss Nellie O'Connor, all from Imo
gen'e, la. Jerry O'Connor, Utica, 111.
M. G. O'Connor, and Pat O'Connor,
Council UlulTs, la. John O'Connor,
Lake City, la., and Mr and' Mrs.
Lynch, Rockwell City, Iowa.
Mrs. O'Connor came to Crawford
county with her husband and family
in March, 1871, immediately taking
up their residence on the old farm
three mijes east of Denison, where
she lived until she moved to Denison
four years ago.
She was a woman of strong religious
convictions and indefatagable indus
try, and great charity for all, and who
made friends with everyone she met.
Her life was a long life of hard la
bor, pious practices, and generous
charity to the poor of her acquain
tance, and she died beloved and re
spected by all who knew her.
May her soul rest in peace.
GOLDEN WEDDING
Mr. and IWrs. Conrad Burke, of Kiron,
Celebrate Golden Weeding on
Saturday, November 25th.
SCHLESWIG, Nov. 28—(Special to
the Review)—The golden wedding an
niversary of Mr. and Mrs. Conrad
Burke was celebrated on Saturday,
November 25th, at their home in Kir
on, whore in the neighborhood of fif
ty relatives and friends gathered to
honor them.
Mr. Burke was born June 12, 1833,
at Hesendarstodt, Germany. Freder
ika Winnge was born June 25, 1848, at
Muchulburd, Germany. They both
came with their parents to America
in the year 1851 and were married at
Freeport. 111., Nov. 25. 1866, locating
soon after in Black Hawk county. In
the year 1882 they came to Crawford
countys settling on a farm in Morgan
township, where they resided until
1908, when they retired, moving to
Kiron, where they have since made
their home. They have ten children,
twentyfivo grandchildren and five
great grandchildren, all of whom re
side in and around Kiron.
Mr. and M«rs. Burke have been prom
inent in the affairs of the community
for over thirty years and arc highly
respected citizens. Their many
friends aro in hopes that they may
live to celebrate many more wedding
anniversaries.
Harry Meyers, who is attending Des
Moinefc college, is expected home this
evening to spend Tl'.irksgiving with
hip parents, Mr. and Mrs. Charles K.
Me!yers. .,
Please mention The Re
view when answering
"Classified Ads." This
courtesy will be appre
elated.
IDA GROVE
No. 43
Firf|t Time in History of Denison That
Local High School Has Been
Able to Defeat Ida Grove
THE SCORE WAS 16 TO NOTHING
Denison Has One of the Fastest Teams
in Years—Play South Omaha High
Thanksgiving at Local Park
Denison's crack football squad trim
med the fast Ida Grove team, in a
hotly contested game on the local grid
iron last Saturday, the score being 16
to 0. It was the first time in tho his
tory of Denison that Ida Grove has
been brought into camp and of course
everyone feels proud of the achieve
ment. It is a well known fact that
Denison has one of the fastest high
school teams in the state this year,
although they have been defeated, but
the game with Ida Grove was consid
ered the hardest one of the schedule.
Both teams played great ball, but
Denison was too much for the visitors
and most of the game was played on
Ida Grove's territory. Line smashes,
forward passes and short end run*
played havoc with the Ida Grove war
riors who seemed unable to break up
the offensive of the Denison team.
Those witnessing the game Saturday
who have seen Ida Grove play before
this season say. the team showed bet
ter form than in any previous game.
Denison kicked off to the visitors,
but they were unable to make any
headway against the locals whose line
stood up like a stone wall. The ball
was forfeited to Denison when Ida
Grove was unable to make the second
down, and by straight football the
ball was rushed up the field and Mc
Cord carried it over the visitor's goal
line. Locke, however, failed to kick
goal.
In the second period Ida Grove was
unable to gain ground and soon for
feited tho ball and Denison forced the
ball up to their 33 yard lino, where
James O'Connor made a successful
drop kick. The kick was really phe
nomenal and spectators did not ex
pect to see the pigskin go over tho
goal, but James seemed to be a past
master at drop kicking and made it
with ease.
The third period was hard fought,
neither team being able to make much
headway, although the game was play
in Ida Grove's territory.
During the last few minutes- of play
Denison again made a touchdown af
ter a series of successful forward'
passes to Lehfeldt who worked the
ball up to within a few yards of the
visitor's goal, when it was carried
over by Locke by a short end run.
O'Connor kicked goal, making the
score stand 16 to 0.
Ida Grove had the best offensive
team that Denison has played against
since the west Des Moines high game
early in the season, and they made
more gains through Denison's line
than any team thus far. Wearmouth
played a wonderful game Saturday
and always managed to find an open
ing through Ida Grove's line. McCord,
Denison' plucky back, made consistent
gains by means of tackle smashes'. Al
though a comparatively new man on
the team, he is playing remarkable
ball and next season should be a whirl
wind. Locke played his usual good
game and skirted the ends for long
runs. All of the back field, Locke, Mc
Cord, Wearmouth and O'Connor, play
ed a good game. Lally, Helsley and
Flinn played good games in the line.
Tomorrow will be the last game of
the season for Denison when they
meet the fast team from Omaha south
high. This team beat Council Bluffs,
earlier in the season by a close score
and fans are expecting one of the
most exciting games witnessed on the'
gridiron this year. The game will be
called promptly at 3:15 and it is hoped
that turkey dinners will be out of the
way to permit everyone Attending.
Turn out and give your support to the
local boys.
Tho George Menagh company are
using three full pages in this issue of
the Review to acquaint the buying
public with the many special values
they have to offer at this time of the
year. The markets of the country have
been combed by the management of
this big store for merchandise suit
able for the holiday buyers and their
stock is now complete and on display.
The Menagh store is all decked out
for the occasion and the interior re
sembles a regular summer garden with
poinsetta climbing over trellisos sus
pended from the ceiling. Holiday
goods are displayed to the best pos
sible advantage. This store has been
particularly fortunate in purchasing
goods at remarkably low prices and
they are giving tlieir trade the ad
vantage of this Saving. Don't fail to
read every item listed in their adver
tisements for it will^tnean the saving
of considerable InoneJ*.'
HEMS
