VOLUME XXXVII.
HOME-MAKERS AND
FARMERS TO MEET
FULL WEEK OF AGRICULTURAL
CONFERENCES TO BE HELD
IN JANUARY
PROMINENT MEN AND WOMEN TO
BE ON UNIVERSITY FARM
PROGRAM
/Farmers' and Home-Makers' Week
fall begin on Monday, January 1, 1917,
and end Saturday, January 6, at the
University Farm School, St. Paul. Last
year more than 1,200 farmers and home
makers participated in the week of study
of practical and scientific methods of
their calling.
Men of local, state and national repu
tation will participate in the demon
strations, discussions, lectures and con
ferences regarding the practical and
scientific features of farming. The sub
jects to be covered are varied, each
being of special interest. They will in
clude farm crops, farm management and
soils dairy and animal husbandry hor
ticulture, botany and entomology agri
cultural engineering poultry and bees
veterinary science rural credits.
Farm Credits a Feature.
The last named subject is to be given
special prominence at the conference
informing to the farmer how best to use
\rural credits. Detailed information is
t^ be given to those present on how to
improve one's personal credit under the
Federal Farm Loan Act, and how to
organize a federal farm loan association.
The women at the conference will have
equal opportunity as the men in study
ing the best methods for improving their
homes. Home-Makers' Week furnishes
the opportunity for women from the
farm, town and city to unite their
efforts. Every woman interested in
better things for her own home and
family, or for those of her neighborhood
will find a combination of the practical
a.rm scientific weU wqrth possessing.
Among the things to be discussed
during the week well be the principles of
nutrition, the most scientific action of
foods in the body, and the food needed
to maintain the body, and the com
parative cost and value of typical foods.
Other subjects of no less, value and pro
bably even more interesting and instruc
tive will be the following:
Many Subjects Discussed.
/Larger problems in food preparation
^textiles, problems in clothing construc
tion taste in dress and in house furnish
ing child welfare the cost of food and
the family budget home care of the sick.
All of these subjects will be-treated in
lectures and at conferences to be held
during the week.
Besides class work there will be con
ferences, evening programs and enter
tainments of unusual interest and value.
Women living either in the country or
city will find much to interest and in
struct them by attending the week's
conference at the University Farm.
SLEEPY EYE IS SUED.
.Vincent Zemler, a farmer near Sleepy
Eye, has brought suit in the Brown
County District Court against the city
of Sleepy Eye, to force that municipality
cease emptying its sewage into its
eptic tank located on Mr. Zemler's
arm, two miles south of town. Mr.
2emler claims the odor from the tank
renders his farm an unhealthy place to
live and that he will be obliged to leave
it with his family if the tank is allowed
to remain there. Also that its presence
has depreciated the value of his property.
The casfe will be tried at the December'
term.
TWO CONSTITUTIONAL
AMENDMENTS CARRIED
Only two of the amendments to the
State Constitution out of the eight sub
mitted to the voters at the last election,
received votes enough for their adop
tion. They were the first and second.
The first, whic related to the improv
ment of state lands, to be sold to settlers,
borrowing money for this improvements
from the school funds, received over
38,000 more votes than was necessary
for its adoption, while the second a
mendment had scarcely 3,000 to the good.
The other six amendments were de
cisively defeated, although all of them
had a majority of the "yes" vote over
xe "no".
The first amendment received 240,977
votes to 58,102 against it. While 211,
501 voted for the second, 56,148 cast
their ballots the other way.
The largest vote recorded against
i-y-tin'rfr r1i*r iifiWitifiitegaaasfcSa^^
any of the amendments was that re
lating to enlarging the State Supreme
Court, which was opposed by 108,003
while 130,307 .voted for it. The fact
that the amendment was so strongly
opposed is taken as an indication that
many people who voted against it had
not taken the time or trouble to study
it thoroughly, or even at all, before go
ing to the polls. This belief is gained
because its adoption would not have
added a dollar to the expense of the state,
as it merely provided for making the
two Supreme Court Commissioners into
Justices.
M. & ST. L. CONDUCTOR DIES.
George Elmer, a passenger conductor
on the M. & St. L. railway for the past
thirty years, and for a long time running
between the Twin Cities and Water
town, S. D., died at his home in St. Paul
last week, from a paralytic stroke. He
had just arrived home from his run when
he was stricken and died within a short
time. Mr. Elmer, who was 78 years old,
was well known all over the M. & St. L.
system, and had many friends.
THANKSGIVING DAY
CHURCH SERVICES
NOT MANY FESTIVITIES ARE
PLANNED FOR THE COMING
HOLIDAY
USUAL CHURCH SERVICES AND
FEW^SOCIAL GATHERINGS
FOR DAY
Thanksgiving day promises to be a
rather quiet holiday in New Ulm this
year. It is said that owing to an unusual
amount of sickness in the city at the
present time much of the contemplated
entertaining by New Ulm hosts will be
dispensed with.
Union Church Services
The usual church services will be held.
Four Pr*dtest!£ht congregations, the Con
gregational, the Methodist, the Bethel
and Friedens will join in Union services
at the latter house of worship on North
State street, the pastor, Rev. George
Mayer, preaching the sermon, while Rev.
C. Hohn, Rev. E. F. Wheeler and Rev.
H. F. Schlaak will assist in the services.
High mass will be celebrated at the
Holy Trinity Catholic church, at 9
o'clock Thursday morning. A Thanks
giving sermon will be preached on that
occasion. Rev. Father Schlinkert will
officiate at the services.
Special Thanksgiving services will be
held at the Lutheran church at 10:30
o'clock, when an appropriate sermon will
be preached by Rev. C. J. Albrecht.
Program at Schools.
A short program will be given at the
Lincoln school this afternoon. The
students in the other ward schools are
preparing their Christmas program, and
did not wish to take the time for a
Thanksgiving program. All the schools
were given their preference relative to a
Thanksgiving or a Christmas program,
and only the Lincoln young folk chose
the former.
A program of songs, poems and in
strumental music will be given at the
Catholic school this afternoon.
The usual Thanksgiving dinner will
be served the students of the Dr. Martin
Luther college, the ladies of the church
providing the dinner.
HANDSOME NEW BLOCK.
The Weiser block, corner of Minnesota
and North Second streets, is nearly com
pleted, and many of the office suites on
the second floor are already occupied.
Those who are now occupying offices in
the new building are: Attorney Alf. W.
Mueller and Dr. H. C. Edmeiston,
osteopath physician. County Attorney
Adolph Frederickson expects to move
here from Springfield soon and will also
have a suite on the same floor. The
first floor is to be used as a fruit and con
fectionary store and will be ready for
the tenants within a short time. The
front suite on the Second floor will be
occupied by the New Ulm Savings &
Loan Association.
The building, which is constructed of
rough faced brick with gray sandstone
trimmings, is one of the handsomest and
most substantial in the city.
Representative-elect A. J. Praxel was
the city from Lamberton Sunday,
having arrived Saturday evening.
Two dances are scheduled for Thursday
evening, one at Turner Hall and the
other at the Armory.
*. •***!. ®sk%U^ii^^^i^^Mik«ifeiali^^&fefe')ii
BIG TURKEY SHOOT
GIVES FAIR BOOST
BROWN COUNTY ASSOCIATION
OVER $350 RICHER BY
AFFAIR
TURKEYS, DUCKS AND GEESE
DISPOSED OF BY SCORES
AT ARMORY
More people attended the big turkey
shooting tournament and deer raffle at
the Armory last Sunday than ever be
fore, and more money secured for the
benefit of the Brown County Agricul
tural Association than on any previous
similar occasion. The association is
richer by the affair by somewhere be
tween $350 and $400, and besides that
all who attended were rewarded with the
time of their lives, and many of them a
bird, besides.
Many Strangers Present.
The attendance was not confined to
New Ulm nor Brown county. They
came in droves and bunches. Spring
field, Hanska, Sleepy Eye and nearly
every township in the county were well
represented then they were here from
Madelia, Gibbon, Fairfax and Nicollet
and a good many of them took a turkey
home with them.
The deer, which was donated by the
Schell Brewing Company, went to C. D.
Antritter, manager of the Hart Lumber
Company, who held the lucky number,
756. Besides the deer, which was a fine
buck, there were ninety turkeys, fifty
five ducks and twenty geese disposed of.
Out of town people took their birds
home with them, while those won in the
city were delivered to the lucky ones
yesterday afternoon.
The total receipts were $750, and after
the expenses have been paid the balance
will be turned over to the treasurer of
the fair organization. It is believed to
be well over $350. The net receipts
are said by the officials to be at least
,$3,00 more than was realized last year.
The plan of holding the shoot in the
Armory is considered a most happy one
by the promoters, it being proven that
not onl more people attended, but they
remained longer and enjoyed them
selves much more. Music was furnished
during the afternoon by William Winkel
mann on the pianola. The shooting
began at 1 p. m. and lasted until nearlj
6 o'clock.
The men having the affair in charge,
and their lieutenants had been busy for
several days scouring the country for
turkeys, ducks and geese and in view
of the scarcity of fowls of this class this
year it was not an easy task to perform.
Proceeds to County Fair.
The shoot and raffle is an annual
affair, the entire proceeds of which are
always donated to the fair association,
which an assistance of no small pro
portions, and officers always appreciate
the assistance that is given it in a finan
cial way.
The success of this year's shooting
tournament will probably settle the
question of location and it will most
likely be held in the Armory in all the
years to come.
Many ol those from a distance Sunday
announced their determination to attend
all future aftairs of the kind here.
MINNEAPOLIS CITIZEN,
WELL KNOWN HERE, DIES
Many New Ulm citizens were shocked
Saturday, to learn of the death of Christ
A. Boehme, the prominent Minneapolis
architect, which occurred suddenly at
his home in that city last Friday. Mr.
Boehme was preparing to leave for his
office, when he was stricken with apoplexy
and died as his wife entered the room.
Mr. Boehme had apparently been in
perfect health at breakfast. Thursday
evening he attended a meeting of a
commercial club near his home, and was
in his usual spirits.
Mr. Boehme was a leader in com
munity activities on the north side,
where he resided, and was a candidate
for park commissioner at the last election.
He was deeply interested in civic and
commercial questions and was one of
the best known architects in that city.
He was a native of Minneapolis, and was
born on the east side 51 years ago.
He was an acth Turner, and a mem
ber of the St. Anthony Turning Society
of Minneapolis. He had often visited
this, city and was well known here,
especially in Turning circles. The funer
al was held at Minneapolis Monday,
Capt. Albert Steinhauser of this city,
delivering the address at the services.
He is survived by his wife, a daughter,
Mrs. Henry Lytne, a son, Lubin and a
younger daughter, Sidonia.
NEW ULM, BROWN COUNTY, MINNESOTA, WEDNESDAY, NOV. 29, 1916.
DPS AND DOWNS OF
HYING COST MANY
PRICES OF MOST COMMODITIES
WERE VERY LOW CENTURY
AGO
INTERESTING ITEMS FOUND IN
SCRAP BOOK KEPT BY NEW
ULM MAN
New Ulm folks, who feel that the high
cost of living has about reached the
limit, will read with a good deal of
interest how things were in the "good
old days." A hundred years ago that
present vexing question evidently didn't
worry the laboring man very mueh—
not so much as now, at least. However,
at that time the wages he received would
be considered pretty small in these days
of labor unions, strikes and lockouts.
T. Crone, of Crone Brothers' Depart
ment Store, has an interesting scrap
book, in which he keeps up-to-date
everything interesting. Among the
items to be found are those pertaining to
prices of pretty nearly every commodity
extending way back beyond the begin
ning of Mr. Crone's business life, even
to a good many years before he was born.
Mr. Crone's father established one of the
first, if not the first, general store in New
Ulm, way back in 1857, long before there
was a railroad anywhere in this part of
the state.
Letter Postage Was High.
The greatest cost to the public a
hundred years ago was letter postage.
By a perusal of Mr. Crone's scrap book
it is learned that shoes for adults in 1813
cost $1.20 a pair and for children, 50
cents. Trousers then sold at 33 cents
a pair and suspenders were 43 cents.
Sugar was higher then than now, as the
retial price was 20 cents a pound and
two years later it sold for 27 cents. Po
tatoes were 30 cents a bushel, and the
price of a coffin was $7.50. The postage
on a letter in those days was 25 cents and
twa^'xsoilected^ tm delivery. Postage
stamps had not come into use at that
time.
Tea, like sugar, was much higher than
now, a pound costing $1.02. Farm labor
was 50 cents a day, except in harvest
time, when 60 cents was paid.
Eggs brought from 6 to 12 cents a
dozen and butter wras from 10 to 12 cents
a pound. Meats were exceedingly cheap
in those days, pork being 4 cents a pound
veal 5 cents and beef 6 cents.
Old Ledger Tells Story.
The above prices were gleaned from
an old ledger kept by a merchant named
David C. Kulp, who conducted a general
store at Kulpville, Penn. Mr. Kulp
was the founder of Kulpville, and was
engaged business there from 1813 to
1834.
Mr. 'Kulp included in his business all
sorts of "side lines," as they would be
called in these days. According to the
old ledger he charged 30 cents for cutting
a pair of trousers and that he "made a
new frock for Polly Rineawalt" for 31
cents. He also received 40 cents for
"altering a bonnet."
Since then there have been many ups
and downs in the prices of merchandise.
It was in Civil War times that the cost
of living hit the high spots, especially
when it came to the purchase of anything
in the line of clothing or dry goods.
In Mr. Crone's scrap book is found a
price list issued by John V. Farwell of
Chicago, nOw the John V. Farwell Com
pany, in August, 1864.
Prints that now sell, wholesale at
from 4 1-2 to 9 cents, then were from 45
to 50 cents a yard. Unbleached sheeting
that is now around 8 or 10 cents was
then 72 1-2 cents. Other prices were in
proportion.
Flour At $15 a Barrel.
Along about that time grain was very
high, and continued to rise until in the
late sixties. In 1864 flour was $9.50 a
barrel in the Twin Cities and in 1867
spring wheat flour sold in the Chicago
market at from $12.50 to $15 a barrel.
Fifty years ago this Tb?r»l giving cut
sugar was 20 cents a pji" or those
who contented themselves ,*t the "half
bleached" or brown kird, aA
1r
or 16
cents. The coffee itself ranged from
45 to 60 cents a pound, the best Mocha
costing the latter price.
Pork then was 10 cents a pound and
beef !jL8 to 20 cents. Chickens were 22
cents a pound, and no turkeys to be had,
but many Minnesota families in tho*-?
days substituted venison for ti.elr
Thanksgiving feast, because that was
sold on the market at 8 cents a pound
for the best cuts. There were no game
laws nor game wardens to worry the
hunter in those days.
Kerosene oil fifty jears ago was 60
cents a gallon, and at that time was
cheaper than it had been before. In fact
it had not been used very many years
then.
With the high prices in those days for
most all commodities labor was much
cheaper than now. The housewife was
able to secure "competent kitchen
help" at $1.25 a week, and skilled car
penters received $1.25 a day. Other
tradesmen received pay in proportion.
Prices Again Sag
A few years later prices began to sag
again—after the effects of the war had
subsided—and within a comparatively
short time got almost below normal.
The chef of the Palmer House cafe in
Chicago says that about forty-five years
ago flour took a jump from $2 to $2.30 a
barrel and people began to "howl" about
the high cost of living. The chef says,
according to an item found in Mr.
Crone's scrap book, they were paying
25 cents a bushel for potatoes and 5
cents a dozen for eggs and thought them
"steep."
Twenty-five years ago in Minneapolis,
boiling beef was 4 cents a pound pot
roast 6 cents shoulder roast, 7 cents, and
(Continued on page 2)
TO PUSH SALE OF
CHRISTMAS SEALS
NEW ULM PEOPLE WILL HAVE
A HAND IN BUYING RED
CROSS STICKERS
STATE HEALTH BOARD OPENS
CAMPAIGN TO FIGHT THE
WHITE PLAGUE
Red Cross Christmas Seals will be
offered in New Ulm this year for the first
time. Dr. O. J. Seifert, local health
commissioner has received from the
Minnesota Public Health Association,
successor to the Minnesota Association
for the Relief of Tuberculosis, 30,000
Red Cross Seals, the number allotted to
.this cjty, in the annual campaign for
their sale, which opened last week.
The association is the campaign manager
for the sale of the seals.
Dr. Seifert expects to take the matter
up with the Commercial Club, and other
organizations in the hope that their
sales may be pushed to as large an
extent as possible.
To Fight Tuberculosis.
The object of the sale of the Red
Cross Seals is to obtain money to be
used for the benefit of tuberculosis
persons for direct relief, prevention and
educational work conducive to relief or
prevention. Of the popularity of seals
the Public Health Association Journal
says:
"Every year increases the popularity
of these little educators and holiday
makers they never fail to gain attention,
sympathy and service."
Fifty per cent of the Seal receipts may
be used locally for approved anti
tuberculosis, work provided the net pro
ceeds amount to at least $50.
For each 6,000 seals sold, that is for
each $30 raised, the town or county will
be entitled to an experienced nurse for
medical school supervision, or a tuber
culosis survey, or infant welfare work,
or all these combined, will be furnished
free with all necessary supplies, including
all expenses, for one week.
A physician experienced in all branches
of public health work for a sanitary
survey, or medical school supervision,
or infant welfare work, or all these com
bined will be furnished free for one week
with all necessary supplies, to any town
or county for every 15,000 seals sold,
or for each $75 raised for the local fund.
Both a physician and a nurse will be
furnished on a pro rata basis as stated
above.
Seals to Be Sold By Mail.
Dr. I. J. Murphy, executive secretary
of the association in charge of sale of
seals, announces that the mails will be
utilized this year in the work, to a
greater extent than ever before. He
says:
"A special feature of the campaign
this year will be in the rural districts.
All of the 1,000 farmers' clubs of the state
will be sent supplies. All of the rural
teachers will be sent seals and a special
health story for children.
"This year nearly all the local cam
paign mamagers will use the mail sale
method their dKtrcts. In the locali
ties where this was t'ied last year, most
of the professional and business men
wrote the campaign manager, that they
preferred to receive their seals' by mail.
Some of them were so pleased with this
method that they sent a check of from
$5 to $10 for the $1 worth of seals re
ceived.
NUMBER48
HEATING COMPANY
TO ACCEPT NT
DIRECTORS INSPECT PROPERTY
AND FIND EVERYTHING IN
GOOD SHAPE
CITY TO BECOME OWNER WHEN
EARNINGS HAVE REACHED
PRICE
Directors of the New Ulm Heating
Company Monday forenoon made an
inspection of the municipal heating
plant, just completed in this city, by the
Healy Heating & Plumbing Company
of St. Paul. The board will meet today
and formally accept the plant. In the
inspection members of the board said the
work had been done in a perfectly satis
factory manner, excepting a very few
minor details, which however, had no
connection with the plant, or its work
ings. Charles Foster, a representative
of the Charles L. Pillsbury Engineering
Company of Minneapolis, who super
intended the work on behalf of the
heating company, will be here today,
when the formal acceptance is made.
To Become City Property.
The cost of the plant, including a
number of extras ordered after the
contract had been awarded, will be about
$25,000. Eventually it will be turned
over, by the company, to the city. It
will, however, be operated by the heat
ing company until the surplus earnings
have reached a sufficient sum to repay
the stockholders. Under the arrange
ments, after the interest on the money
invested has been paid, together with
the running expenses, which are very
light, the surplus is to be turned into a
fund with which to purchase it, when it
will become the property of the city.
Within a short time practically all
of the business places on Minnesota
street, between Center and North Second
streets will be connected up. For
several weeks plumbers have been busy
making the connections, but consider
able time is required for this work.
The contractors finished their work
last week and most of the men employed,
including the superintendent and fore
men have returned to St. Paul. Several
of the plumbers remained for a few days
to assist 'the local men in installing the
heat in some of the buildings not yet
connected.
The contractors had expected to have
the steam turned on by October 1, but
scarcity of labor and delay in receiving
material caused a slight disappointment
and it was fifteen days later before this
was done. Since then, and while the
finishing touches were being put on,
business men and building owners have
been busy installing pipes and radiators,
and connecting pipes with their old
heating plants.
Buildings Heated.
The following business places are now
receiving heat from the new plant:
Bastian, Marti & Brandl, general mer
chants Berndt's restaurant Mrs. Anna
Rmke, milliner John H. Forster, furni
ture dealer Stuebe Bros., produce
dealers Emil Metzinger, clothier Crone
Bros., general merchants and clothiers
Wd. Eibner, baker and confectioner
Arbes Bros., druggists J. A. Ochs,
general merchant H. O. Schleuder,
jeweler Commercial club F. P. Zschunke
clothier John Schneider, cigar manu
facturer Emil Wichcrski, shoe dealer
Art Janka, grocer Wra. A. Pfefferle,
grocer Rex Pool and Billiard parlors
G. A. Ottomeyer, general merchant J. M.
Meyer, jeweler R. R. Kemski, printer
Masonic hall Robert Fesenmaier, hard
ware dealer Dakota House Esser saloon
Pioneer Drug Co., Weiser building and
the New Ulm Publishing Company's
building.
It is probable that one or two more
blocks on Minnesota street will be added,
to the heating district next summer.
TELEPHONE RATES REDUCED.
Telephone users will be benefitted by
the reduced rates for long distance tele
phone service to be put into effect by
the Northwestern and Tri-State Tele
phone Companies on December 1. The
change is made by order of the Minnesota
Railway and Warehouse Commission,
and has reference to short distance calls.
The rate for calls up to twelve miles will
be reduced on that date, from 20 to 15
cents. The rate to seventeen miles
will remain the same as before, 20 cents.
The new rate will affect New Ulm
telephone users,with^Only two stations,
Sleepy Eye and Lafayette, the charge to
those towns, on and\after .December 1,
being 15 cents msteadlof 20 cents.
"5"
r:
*f.
i.
