THE BARKE BAULF TIMES
VOL. XX NO. 219.
HAllKK, VERMONT, WEDNESDAY, NOVEMHEIl 29, 1910.
PUICE, ONE CEXT.
RUSSIANS WIN
IN NEW ATTACKS
IN RUMANIA
Efforts to Relieve the Press
ure on Rumania Result in
Small Gains, According to
Admission by the Berlin
War Office by Wireless
To-day
HEAVY COST PAID FOR
SMALL ADVANTAGE
Berlin Also Reports That
Rumanians Are Retreat
ing in Disorder Toward
Bucharest Capital of the
Nation Has Been Moved
to Jassy, 200 Miles Northeastward
Berlin, by wireless, Nov. 2!). The Rus
sians began attacks yesterday at many
places along the northern Rumanian
front, it is announced officially. They
gained a small local advantage at a heavy
cost. The Rumanians in Wallaehia, be
fore Bucharest, are retreating in disorder.
RUMANIAN ARMIES
ARE IN GREAT PERIL
The situation of the Rumanian
armies defending Bucharest ap
pear! to be increasingly critical.
Only to the northward of thu cap
ital do the Rumanian lines seem
to be holding at all tlrnily and even
there the capture of Curtea de
Argcs, although 80 miles from
Bucharest, seems to Indicate the
weakening of the Rumanian resist
ance in that direction. On the
southwest the peril is imminent
with the enveloping movement of
the central powers placing their
forces within 40 miles of the capital.
GERMANY ASKS
FOR MARINA FACTS
Foreign Offioe Says Inquiry From Wash
ington Was Too Vague in Its In
formation as to Location and
Circumstances.
Berlin, via London, Nov. 29. The Ger
man foreign office has asked the Amer
ican embassy for further details as to
the place and rircumstances of the sink
ing of the British steamer Marina. It is
said that the information offered in the
American note of inquiry was insufficient
tor the purposes of investigation.
FIVE LESS WILSON VOTES.
RUMANIA MOVES CAPITAL.
Taken to Jassy, Which is 200 Miles
Northeast of Bucharest.
runs, y.ov. z'.i. the Kumanian gov
eminent and diplomatic authorities havi
left Bucharest and gone to Jassy, ac
cording to a Havas dispatch from Buch
nrcst.
In New Hampshire According to Correct
Returns.
Concord, N. II., Nov. 29. The plurality
of the Wilson electors in New Hamp
shire has been reduced from 03 to 56 by
the correct official returns from ward
twelve of .Manchester and the town of
Groton.
BLAME AUSTRIA
FOR SHIP LOSS
Submarine Sinking Ameri
can Vessel Chemung Flew
Flag of That Nation
SAY DESPATCHES
TO WASHINGTON
There Was No Loss of Life,
and Crew' Were Al
lowed to Leave
Washington, D. G, Nov. 20. The lat
est dispatches to the state department
say that the submarine which sank the
American steamer Chemung on Nov. 28
(lew the Austrian Hag and that the
steamer was destroyed bv shell fire us
well as by torpedo. They repeat that
there was no loss of life and that the
crew had an opportunity to leave the
hip.
29 SUBMARINE
CONTRACTS GIVEN
Large Part of Construction Work Will
Go to Concerns in Quincy, Mass.
First of Boata Will Not Be
Delivered for Two Years.
Washington, P. C, Nov. 2. Scere
tary Daniels to-day awarded contracts
for 27 coast defense and two HOO-tou licet
submarines. Contracts for eighteen coast
detenao submersible went to the Elec
trie Boat company of Quincy, Muss., at
iit)7,XXI each, six to the Lake Torpedo
Boat company at IHI4,000, and three
to the California Shipbuilding company
at fUlW.OOO.
One licet submarine went to the Elec-
trie Boat company for $1,180,000 and the
other to the Lake company for $1,105,000.
It will be about two years before the
first of the ships is delivered to the gov
ernment.
FAtES BIGAMY CHARGE.
STARS AND STRIPES"
WAS STILL FLYING
Jassy is about 200 miles north-north
east of Bucharest, near the Russian fron
tier.
CONTINUED SUCCESS
FOR ALLIES IN SERBIA
Serbians Capture Height Northwest Of
Grunishte French Make Progress,
and Italians Advance West
of Monastir.
Paris, Nov. 29. Serbian troops yester
day captured a height northwest of
Grunishte on the' Macedonian front, east
of the Ccrna river, the war office an
jiounces. A height east of hill 1050 also
was captured. A violent battle is in
progress northwest of Monastir, and the
French arc advancing toward hill 1248,
The statement savs the Italians made
progress in the region of Tervina Stena,
a lieight west of Monastir.
On the Sommc front during the night
spirited artillery engagements occurred
in the regions of Blanches and Ires
eoires.
BRITISH LOSE CRUISER (?)
Berlin Report Says the Newcastle Struck
a Mine.
Berlin, Nov. 20, by wireless to Say
rille, N. Y. The British cruiser New
castle is reported to have been sunk at
the entrance of the hirth of forth, Scot
land, Nov. 15 by coming in contact with
a mine, according to the Overseas News
agency.
"It is reported from Rotterdam," says
the agency, that the Bitish cruiser New
castle on Nov. 15 in the North sea struck
a mine and sank at the entrance of the
Firth of Forth while trying to reach
home port. The Newcastle at the time
of the disaster was accompanied by two
cruisers. Of the crew of the Newcastle,
27 men were killed and 47 wounded.
"The total losses, of the British navy
with this loss, as far as can be ascer
tained, have reached 121 ships of 567,950
tons, not counting auxiliary cruisers and
auxiliary snips.
"The English patrol ship sunk during
the raid of German sea forces the night
of Nov. 27 was the steam trawler Nar
val, which was engaged in the mine
sweeping service. Her crew belonged to
the royal naval service.
German Airplanes Brought Down.
London, Nov. 20. An admiralty an
nouncement late last mgbt says:
"The commodore of Dunkirk has been
informed by the French authorities that
they brought down an airplane at 2:12
o clock Tuesday afternoon, carrying two
naval lieutenants and with a large scale
map of Ixmdon aboard."
TALK OF THE TOWN
C. M. Bradford of Brandon arrived in
the city to-day and will spend several
days as the guest of his parents, Mr.
and Mrs. William A. Bradford, of South
Main street.
Mrs. P. P. Marrion of Summer street
is entertaining her sister, Mrs. O. J. Lad
am of Burlington, who will be joined to
morrow bv Mr. I-ailam.
Mrs. Edmund Gardens and daughter,
Irene of St. Albans arrived in the city
yesterday and will spend several day
t the home of her parents on Maple
venue.
Miss Ethel Badger of Morrisville, who
as been spending a few weeks at her
former home, arrived in the city yester
day for a stay at the home of her un
cle. A. W. Badger of Eastern avenue.
S. Scampiiii of Concord, N. II., arrived
in the city this morning and is at the
home of hi- brother, Angelo Scampini.
f Jterlin slnit, having Uen called here
ly the ith of bis nephew, Romeo
TALK OF THE TOWN
Mrs. George Geake left last night for
Boston, where she will stay with friends
lor a while.
,i ames urown returned to mrre yes
terday, after spending several days in
Uoston on business.
Miss Edith Bailey left this noon for
.Rochester, where she will stay with rel
atives for several days.
Miss Lillian Morse left this noon for
Boston, where she will spend the holiday
recess with friends and relatives.
Mrs. Ellen L. Stoughton left this noon
for Rochester, where she will spend
Thanksgiving with her son, Henry C.
Stoughton. . .
E. J. Badger, who is employed in the
Walk-Over boot shop, went to Morris
ville to-day for a few days' visit with
his family.
Dr. and Mrs. William F. Mann of
Orange street left this noon for Brattle-
boro, where they will spend the holiday
with relatives.
Miss Alice V. Beckley of Eastern ave
nue left to-day for Jamaica Plain, N. Y.,
where she will visit- her brother over the
Thanksgiving holiday.
C. Blake, formerly a clerk in the Rog
ers store, but now with a SprincHeld.
Mass., firm, arrived in the city last
evening and will spend several days vis
iting menus.
Miss Lucy Wells leaves to-night for
Stoughton, Mass., where she will re
main as a guest of her brother, Burt
Wells, until the first of next week. Her
nephew, Frank Wells, will accompany
her to Massachusetts.
Miss Grace Murphy of Holyoke, Mass.,
arrived in the city yesterday, while en
route to Graniteville, where she will visit
at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Thomas
Brady. Miss Winnie Carey, who has
been visiting at the home of Mr. and
Mrs. Brady for several days, passed
through the city yesterday, while en
route to her home in Nashua, N. II.
As the American Steamship Chemung
Went Down, According to Report
Sent from Paris.
London, Nov. 20. Lloyds reports that
the American steamship Chemung has
been sunk.
The crew of the Chemung has been
mled at Valencia by the Spanish steam
er Giner, says a Renter dispatch from
Valencia yesterday.
The Chemung was torpedoed near Cabe
Dc Gata, according to the dispatch.
Because Judge Refused to Annul Rut
land Man's First Marriage,
Rutland, Nov. 29v Judge Fred M. But
ler in Rutland county court yesterday
dismissed the petition of James Council
of this city, aged 23 years, for the an
nulment of his marriage in New York
state when he was a minor to a Miss
Barrett of Watervllet, N. V., with whom
he has not lived for four years. Judge
Butler's refusal to annul the marriage
means that Connell will have to face a
bigamy charge wiich was preferred
against him last January by Dorothy
Carnell Connell of this city, whom he
married over a rear ago. Connell has
served a term in a New York state re
formatory for seduction. There is one
child by each marriage.
RESTRICT
FRANCHISE
to Hedge About Cen
tral Power Co.
tahlished a rifle range at 207 North Main
street, asked for a license, the coot of
which, $5, is fixed by ordinance. Mem
bers of the license committee said they
had sighted the range and thought th
request should bo granted. Tho clerk wa
instructed to issue the license and then
the spotlight was turned on a dart gal
lery which has been in operation at tin
corner tobacco store. Thero were those
Barre City COUnCll PrOpOSeS '" thought perhaps the dart galler
, TT i ii l rt didn't stack up as a range of the kin
described by the ordinance and there was
a question as to whether the proprletc
hould be taxed. Alderman Bruce said
that gasoline autos had to lie licensed
along with the steam autos and thought
the same rulinir should aiiplv to shooting
IN RETURN FOR RIGHT Ru."'','". regardless of the nature of th
i m khi nu iiunn nit i inn nun mni mil iri w m
TO ENTER THE CITY asked to investigate the workings of the
Tentative Proposals Were
Considered at Meeting
Last Evening ,
Paris, Nov. 29, (censored.) A Madrid
dispatch by wireless announces the ar
rival at of the crew of the Amer-
can steamer Chemung, torpedoed in
by a German submarine. The com
mander gave the crew only a few min
utes to abandon the vessel, not allowing
them even to take their money and pa
pers. The submarine towed the lifeboats and
the crew were placed to within five miles
of the coast, where it abandoned them.
The Chemung went down with the
Stars and Stripes floating .at her mast.
A lively incident preceded the sinking , -"r. m r.u . i .
of the vessel. The German commander "' Ma!s- f",ved n ",e ,f '
gavo orders that the American Hag
TALK OF THE TOWN
Frank A. Skillings returned to Barre
this morning, after a brief business visit
in Boston.
Pearl Richards left last night for Roy
alton, where he will spend the Thanks
giving holiday at the home of his par
ents. Mrs." E. G. Wells of East street left
Monday night for Denver, Col., where
she will spend the winter with her
daughter.
Arthur Eastman returned to his home
in Salisbury to-day after visiting rcla
tives on North Main street during the
past three weeks.
Milford Sowles of Roxbury, deputy in
spector of weights and measures, was
among the business visitors in the city
yesterday and to-day.
Miss Barbara Helmarr of Rutland ar
rived in the city last evening and will
visit relatives on Jefferson street over
the Thanksgiving holiday.
Mr. and Mrs. Paul B. Davis of Worces-
last even-
jing, and will spend the holiday at the
dart callerv In-fore reporting again
For injuries said to have been received
Inst July while a member of the crew
attached to the street department auto
James Spencer seeks damage from the
citv. In a letter received from his at
torncv, E. R. Davis, it was stated tha
the claimant has been unable to work
since the accident. Dr. William Mi'Far
land submitted a bill for $45 for services
rendered, including an operation and eon
I.-.; T . J I I . I. . . . L ' ........ . .. .1
Will, f.t. ..,. i. :..: .4 ji 1 summon, il uevnu icn liini i- miner unit
W ith fair prospects of arriving at defl- industrial accident
nite conclusions by next week, the city board for redemption, but the attorney's
council at a special session following the letter and the physician's statement were
regular aldermanic meeting last night be- referred to the city attorney. James
rru i. ..-:., , ,u .i j g l.tliern uieu mtn- uvo icci ui mini
j'- '"-" by him t0 thp fi,y sevprai years ago be
u"0 win .fiur.i ower k.o. returned to him, inasmuch as a proposed
to establish transmission and distribution sidewalk in the vicinity of where the land
nower lines in Barre. Moat of the tea- is located on Eastern avenue was never
tures deslrerl inintlv hv tlio council and laid. On the recommendation of Alder
the representatives of the power com- man Glysson, his request was referred to
nanv. who anneared at the citv hall with the committee of the whole
their petition a fortnight ago, are pre- Canton Bros, and J. A. Healy were
served in the tentative franchise submit- granted permits to erect garages, the one
ted bv the letriulat i v mmmittH. A few on Smith street, the other on Averill
additions and amendments were discussed street, favorable reports having been sub-
at the epecial session, after which it was mitted by the building insptor, to
voted to lay the draft on the table until whom a request from George Mowatt to
the next meeting, separate copies to be move a nennouse on rrospeci street ws
provided for each member of the board referred. Alter reports rrom tne wiring
n the interim. inspector nad oeen receive!, wiring !-
Amonir some of the council members mits were granted as follows: R. G. Kob
there was a feeling that a stipulated inson, house lights: Granite Savings
price for lights should be affixed to the bank, lights; Mrs. F. N. Haskett, house
franchise so that the matter would not "frm; m. J. i. s. i . meier; v . r..
have to be taken up aeain should the Avers, wall fixture; S. Gervasi, house
MONTPELIER
Senator William P. Dillingham left last
night for Washington, 1). C, after spend
ing the past six weeks in Montpelier and
other parts of the state.
L. S. Hayes of Burlington was a busi
ness visitor in the city to-day.
The probate and county court offices
will be closed all day to-morrow, Thanks
giving day. The state House offices, prac
tical! all stores and insurance offices will
be closed and the postoflice will observe
holiday hours.
Carrol V. Bowman, a student at the
University of Vermont, arrived in the
city last evening to visit his parents for
the remainder of the week.
In probate court yesterday II. William
Scott of Barre settled iis account as ex
ecutor of the will of Ola Ingermanson,
late of Barre City. Fred E. Perrin of
Barre settled his account as administra
tor of the estate of Jennie E. Cutler,
late of Barre Citv.
Mr. and Mrs. Clyde Brigham are par-
nts of a son, born Monday night. Mr.
should be lowered, and German sailotv
prepared to put them into effect. Thev
met with stubborn resistance on the part
of the American Captain DulTy and his
crew, who refused to haul down the col
ors, saying that if the ship had to be
sunk it would be with the flair flying.
Captain Duffy maintained his ground,
and si rapidly were the preparations to
sink the Chemung made that further dis
cussion about the flag ceased, and after
the captain and crew had been taken
aboard the submarine a torpedo and
three shells sent against the side of the
American ship put her to the bottom.
Although angry at the action of the
German commander, Captain Duffy and
his men had some measure of satisfac
tion in seeing the flag at the masthead
as the waves finally engulfed their ship.
the Chemung was registered at .New
York and carried a crew of 24. They
found a place in two lifeboats and after
a time on the open sea were picked up
by a Spanish steamer, which took them
to Valencia. Captain Duffy has made a
long report of the incident to the Amer
ican consul at Valencia, John R. Putnam.
TALK OF THE TOWN
Mrs. Susan Patch of East Granville
was a visitor in the city to-day.
Miss Mary Given, a teacher in the
Moretown schools arrived in the. city to
day and will spend tho Thanksgiving re
cess at the home of her parents, Mr. and
Mrs. James Given, of Richardson street.
On account of the death of one of its
members, the Italian Gaiety club has
postponed tho confetti dance which was
to have been held in the Knights of Co
lumbus hall to-morrow evening. It is
expected that the dance will be given
early in December.
The Barre road theatrical flub will
give a play entitled "The Heiress Hunt
er"' in the schoolhouse Friday, Dec. 1, at
8 p. m. Admission, 2oc; children, 10c.
Come and see the stars in their initial
performance. It will probably be their
first and last appearance on the stage.
adv.
Samuel Lavoie, a student at Goddard,
left last night for Manchester, N. II.,
where he will visit his parents for sev
eral days. He also intends to make a
short trip to Boston, where he will visit
Joseph Brickley at Boston college and
watch the Hoston college-Holy Cross
game to-morrow.
Two farm deals of interest locally
were completed recently. Fred Perrin
and his son, Charles G. Perrin, have dis-
nrignam is a conuucior on me carre jpo8ed of their farm on east hill to A. F.
Montpelier Traction company line. I Rivers, who has taken nossession.Charles
Mrs. J. If. Dillon and Miss Phyllis jVrrin navjnif moved to p,arre to r,side
(home of Mr. Davis' parents.
Nelson Brown arrived in the city to
day from Hanover, N. II., and will spend
the Thanksgiving vacation at the home
of his parents, Mr. and Mrs. James
Brown, of Cliff street.
Auction sale Friday, this week at It.
M. Farnham's stable in Montpelier; 25
fresh horses, 25 to 40 commission horses,
carriage, harness, robes, blankets, whips,
halters, etc. C. F. Smith, auctioneer.
ad v.
Harold Fitts, a student at the Univers
ity of Vermont, arrived in the city last
evening and will spend the Thankgiv-
ing recess at the home of his parents,
Mr. and Mrs. Homer Fitts, of Park
street.
Christmas solicitir for the poor of
Barre and vicinity has been started by
the Salvation Army through the distri
bution of small glass jars among the
stores, in which donations may be lie:
posited. The Army plans to furnish the
essentials of a Christmas dinner to as
many families' as possible about town
and will supplement its good work by
distributing clothes to those who are
needy.
A large and appreciative audience was
entertained last evening by the two blind
musicians, John McCay and his sister,
Mary McCay, at Howland hall. It was
a very pleasing program and the enter
tainment had an atmosphere all its own.
Mr. McCay greatly pleased the audience
with a few humorous impersonations of
Irish character, in a very clever manner.
Miss McCay sings with a clear soprano
voice, while Mr. McCay has a deep bari
tone, and each received hearty applause
on every occasion. Their playing of the
selections on the piano was remarkable.
Cold weather will find the aldermnnic
water committee ready to serve the
youngsters of the city this year. Having
obtained the necessary sanction from the
city council, the committee and laborers
from the street department, with addi
tional help from the fire department if it
is necessary, will begin the preparation of
municipal skating rinks at the first op
portunity. In other years, through luck
of organization, the work of preparing
rinks authorized by tne council has been
permitted to drag, but the committee in
tends to have its forces marshaled at
once and the first cold snap will not find
them unprepared. It is proposed to re
new the popular North Barre rink and if
possible there will be free skating rinks
at the south end park and somewhere
east of Gospel village, possibly on the
Lincoln school campus.
Sessions at Spaulding high school,
throughout the graded schools and at
Goddard seminary weje supended this
afternoon for tha Thanksgiving recess.
power company succeed in obtaining per.
mission from the public service ommis
eion to furnish energy for domestic and
municipal users of lights. In this con
nection a rate of seven cents per kilo
meter was mentioned, but it remains for
the council to consider this feature in
conjunction with the company's represen
tatives before including it in the fran-
lights; G. Tomasi, house lights; L. H.
Hutchinson, house lights; F. M. Kemp
ton, mill light; W. A. Bradford, house
lights; J. E. Cashman, lights in Howland
block annex
A clean bill for the citv hell boilers
was received from the Fidelity & Casual
ty Co. of New York, whose inspector ex
amined the boilers Nov. 18. Warrants
rhie nrnvisn With th n i,l nf tl.o citv were approved for payment in tne toilow
clerk, the lecwlative committee succeeded mg order: Street department payroll
on the first attempt in framing a fran- ., street, state nignway, sewer,
chise, which, on the whole, seems to coin- face sewer and health accounts; water
cide with the requirements that the coun- department payroll, filb.X. ; tire depart
cil intends to exact. ment payroll. $05.71; police department
If it is accented, the instrument will payroll, $93 JO; G. A. Bemis, $14, services
grant the company the privilege of estab- as city hall janitor.
EVIDENCE CONCLUSIVE
lishing its lines on South Main, Circle,
Batehelder, Avers, Bovnton, West Pat
tertinn. Velon Tremnnt. SReriilan Wei-
lington, Merchant. Seminary, North That Romeo Scampini Came to Death ay
His Own Hand.
Evidence brought out in a secret in
quest held before Judge G. II. Dale of
V aterbury in the court room at city naa
vesterdav afternoon tended to confirm
Main, Packard, Mill, Fairview, Burrfham
and Blackwell streets in completing its
service loop. Poles may be set, conduits
nia3" be excavated and wires strong tin
der the franchise agreement, but the city
placed underground in any section of the l"e nr' "f""."1! l "I' i
lu w w . fit t j.i-ot- Tl,- Romeo Scampim, who was found dead in
V f " '' f . r " a North Main street club room with a
which fixo
power lit one
-4 TU.- J.
be 'fixed at a later date. -Y " ,, " ".. 1 " 1. V " I.
Service must be continuous and if, r'"Soni.v n,m.K.i v...
through any cause that may be traced to
... i,. m.Tin.m i-harl fnr l"llftt llole in his nPart Tuesday morning
es tne maximum charge tor , , c-..'- . , ,
one and seven-tenths per kilo- , hls "n 1,an'i; 'f A .
e duration of the franchise will f - Reason was assisted n the inquiry
THREW HERSELF
BEFORE TRAIN
Miss Mabel Nutbrown In
stantly Killed at So.
Ryegate To-day
BODY WAS FOUND
CUT TO F " JES
Young Woman H ilecent-
ly Complained if Pains
in Her Head
South Ryegate, Nov. 20. Throwing
herself in front of the west-bound Mont
pelier 4. Wells River train at 0 o'clock
this morning, Miss Mabel Nutbrown,
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. William Nut
brown of this place, was instantly killed,
her body being found when daylight
came, tor two or three weeks the younu
woman had complained of pains in her
head, and so it is believed that ill health
was the cause of her suicide.
The body was found near a crossing in
this village, and on a log nearby lay
her coat and hat, tho latter evidence in
dicating beyond doubt that it was a case
of self-destruction. Because of the dark
ness, the trainmen did not know what
had occurred.
Miss Nutbrown was 30 rears of age
and for some time was employed in the
family of Judge icho!s in St. Johns-
bury. Recently she came to South Rye
gate to assist her parents in the main
tenance of a boarding-house. Besides her
parents, she leaves one sister, Mrs. Er
nest Grates, who lives on a farm in this
icinity. The family came here from
anada.
After the authorities had viewed the
remains they gave permission for the re
moval of the body of the young wom
an.
When the Green Mountain express
ulled into Barre this morning at 8
'clock the trainmen were asked by a
Times reporter concerning the killing of
Miss Nutbrown at South Ryegate. They
knew nothing of the occurrence and were
first inclined to doubt the truth of
the report that their train hd killed her,
Ithough they said it was so dark when
the train went through South Ryegate
hat it would have been impossible to
see anybody lying on the track. The en-
ine and car wheels showed no signs of
blood.
BARRE BOWLERS LOST.
the negligence of the company, sufficient
power is not furnished, the company is
liable to recompense consumers for the
damage caused by suspensions or insuffi
ciency of power. A bond of $10,000 will
be required to indemnify the city against
any costs, losses or other expenses caused
bv the introduction of the system in the
city. The rights conveyed in the instru.
ment are not assignable to any person
company or corporation other than the
Central Power Co. and it is wisely spec!
(led that the maximum rate alreadv men
tioned shall not be exceeded in charges
for energy passing over the lines set
forth in the first paragraph of the fran
chise.
Dealings with Railroads.
Two railroad companies figured in
soon after the shooting occurred. Among
those who testified Vere several young
men of Scampinis age who were with
him at divers times during the night be
fore his death. Young Natale Fontana
who was in the'elub room at the time of
the shooting, repeated his narrative in
detail.
l)r. B. H. Stone, the etate pathologist,
who, with Dr. C. F. W lutney, also of the
state laboratory, conducted an autopsy
over the body in the forenoon, told, it is
said, of the suicidal indications discov
ered in the post-mortem examination.
Police officers and others who visited the
club suite before the body was removed
to the undertaker's establishment also
told their stories. The Fontana boy, who
was held as a material witness in mo
morning, was allowed to go after the
Hill returned this morning from White wjtti his father. Recently, Mr. Rivers i Children in the city schools do not re
R.i-p t wit tn n-Kuril t hv 1 1 ttnA Art a. I ., .. ... - . . . . i. . . , -
River Junction, where they attended yes
terday a meeting of chiropodists of the
state, which was held for the purpose of
organization and subsequent protection
of their business.
Gov. C. W. Gates left this morning for
is home in Franklin, after spending sev
eral days in the city.
James Rvan went last evening to Bos
ton in the interests of the Tenney com
pany. Mr. Ryan completes hi duties
for the Tenney concern next month after
four years' service, and will accept a po
sition with the Kdison Electrical com
pany of Boston.
Mwhael Jlorigan, the Central ermont
carried on the Florence Batehelder place
located near the Perrin farm. . 1).
Turney of Montpelier, who purchased the
Murray Clark farm a rear ago, has sold
the property to W. F. Nichols, a well
known East Montpelier man, who has
taken possession.
Italian musical program for Thursday,
Nov. 30, at 7 p. m.. at Brook street Ital
ian church: March, 'Trento-Trieste,"
Maestro Groppelli; piano solo, "La Scin
tilla" (Gottsehalkl. Miss Sticknev; cor-
turn to school until jiondav morning.
For the benefit of many students whose
homes are too far away for them to
spend the holiday at their own fireside,
a Thanksgiving dinner will be served at
the seminary to morrow, and although a
large number of students are enjoying
the recess at home, there are many oth
ers who will gather around the board at
Alumni ball. All stores, banks and the
postoflice will be closed to-morrow along
with the business offices. A number of
two railroad companies ngured m hParmf
a rvraemeni a unnrnvAf. hv the nlHermen fori
-r" - j . ....
runerai was uugeiy nunm
Funeral services for the youth were
by the city attorney, the Barre 4 Chelsea held at the Scampini home on Berlin
railroad is granted permission to extend street this afternoon at 2 o'clock. Rev.
trackage over a loop of land in Enter- r. o. Lipsky, pastor of the Hedding
prise alley used by teamsters as a turn- Methodist church, was the officiating
out. It is located at the north end ot the clergyman. The obsequies brought to-
alley, and the agreement insists that the gcther a very large gathering of the
track shall be used only for testing air young man's friends as well as many of
brakes, that the crossing shall be proper- the older generation in the Italian colony
Iv planked and must eontorm to tnei0f Karre. There was a long list ot norai
grade of the alley. Aldermnn Shurtleff tributes, among them being setpieees
thought the city should demand a small from organizations to which the young
rental pit annum, but Alderman Healy nian belonged. The bearers were six
dissented from this opinion and gave it voumr men friends of the deceased, as
as his own opinion that such a charge follows: Peter Mcrlo, Delia Merlo, Vin
would resemble small spuds. It was nt Catto, Armando Comolli, Charles
finally decided to accept the agreement Caklerara and Ambrose Scampini. Inter-
with the amendment that a blueprint, to ment was made in Hope cemetery,
be prepared bv the citv engineer, should
be attached to the instrument in order RAISED $55,000 ALREADY,
to designate the exact location of the
turn-out. An agreement whereby the nf the $150,000 Needed for New Building
Were Twice Defeated By Montpelier
Rollers Last Evening.
Barre and Montpelier bowling teams
met at Merlo's academy last evening for
the first of several intercity tournaments
that are to be held in the near future.
The Barre rollers led their opponents in
the number of matches won, but the to
tal pinfall delivered the first leg of the
series to Montpelier. It is expected that
a return match will be played on the
M itpclier lanes either Tuesday or
Wednesday evening. Correspondence with
the manager of a bowling team in St. Al
bans indicates that St. Albans and Barre
teams will be eeen on the local alleys
some evening next week. Scores made
last evening were as follows:
Montpelier. Barre.
Connor zwujiomDo
Ship 282jMariani ,. 277
Armstrong ... 310iOzelIa 273
Bancroft .WCatto 279
Hawkins 274J. Mcrlo ..... 261
Total 1431
Montpelier.
Hawkins ....
Bancroft ....
Armstrong ...
Total 1389
Barre.
307Colorabo , . . . . 90fi
273Mariani ....... 2A7
29ljCatto 277
Total 871 Total
830
DEATH OF MORETOWN CITIZEN.
net and piano, Garibaldi Barberi; song -granite manufacturers who flint down
by the Sunday school choir; cornet solo
and piano polka. Maestro Kroppelli;
piano solo (Brandt, MUs Rachel Robin-
railway conductor, who was brushed son; song. Sundar school choir; cornet
from the top of a freight car at Mont-land piano. Baldo" Barberi; piano solo,
pelier Junction Saturday night, wiII'"Son)j of the Brook" (Hewittl, Miss
this afternoon will not resume opera
tions until Monday morning, because of
the short working interval between Fri
day morning and the early closing hour
Saturday.
probably be detained at Heaton hospital
for at least two weeks, having been bad
ly shaken tip by the fall.
On account of the high cost of living
trr the Eureka, Barre. for your Thanks
giving dinner; only 40c. Ted Theriault,
1'roj?.
Sticknev; closing march by Maetro
Oroppelli. Both English and Italian are
invited. Five-cent admission will be
charged toward paying for the new
church piano. There will he a Thanks
giving supper for the Sunday school chil
dren from 6 to 7 p. m.
NO PAPER THURSDAY.
To-morrow beinir Thanksgiving
day, The Times y i.1! not be issued.
city is privileged to extend its proposed
10-inch water main through the Granite
City driving park was ordered signed and
forwarded to the Central Vermont Rail
way Co., owner of the park, for signa
ture.
Relief for Small "Movies." Possible.
Relief for the small movie people who
do not boast the seating capacity of large
houses is in sight. After much investi
gation and a good deal of inquiring, the
license committee turned in a report
which advocates a sweeping revision of
the ordinance which fixes a license fee of
$2 per day on all moving picture theatres.
Heretofore, no attention has been paid
to seating capacities, but the licene
committee is of the opinion that a lump
sum works a hardship on the small movie
magnate and to the end that the city.
after assuming the role of a stern task
master for so long a period, shall make
proper amends to theatre proprietors who
are raking in hard-earned nickles and
dimes these days, the committee recom
mended that the following schedule be
substituted in revising the ordinance:
For all theatres seatin? 600 or less. $1
per dav; from fiOO to "5fl. 91 At per day;
over 7 .wi. a per oay. 1 wo tneairea in
town w ill not be affected by the drive on
the ordinance and one, which comes un
der the 5(10 class, will surely benefit. The
recommendations of the committee were
accepted without any opposition.
Miooting galleries formed the next tar
get. . Flanders & Goodfellow, having es-
at Norwich.
New York. Nov. 20 Fiftv-flve thous
and of the $l."0,OOO needed for the erec
tion of a riding hall and stables at Nor
wich university, Northfield, Vt., made
necessary by the war department's desig
nation of the institution as a unit of the
reserves of the cavalry officers' training
corps, has been raised, it was announced
here yesterday at a luncheon given by
the preparedness committee of the Spanish-American
War Rough Riders. Tlans
were made for the collection of the full
amount needed.
JUBILATION IN ST. JOHNSBURY. '
Wilson Victory at Polls Cause of the
Celebration.
St. .Tohnsbttry. Nov. 23. St. .Tohnsbury
Democrats celebrated their victory last
night with a jollification meeting in the
town hall. ElUha May presided. Thom
as Brown of Rutland recounted the vic
tories and glories of Democracy since the
dars of Thrtmas Jefferon. Wilkie's or-
George Howes Was Born in That Town ,
81 Years Ago.
Moretown, Nov. 29. George Howes,
one of the town's oldest and highly re
spected citizens, died Monday afternoon
at his home, where he had resided since 1
young man. He was born in More-
town, July 21, 1835, and was the young
est son of John and Polly Howes. March
15, 1865, he married Sarah Strong, who
survives him.
In his younger days he was promi
nent in the affairs of the town, having
been town representative in 1878. About i
six years ago he suffered a shock and j
had been in poor health much of the time j
since. However, he had not been confined
to his bed, death coming very suddenly ;
while reclining on a couch. ;
Besides his wife he is survived by one .
niece, Mrs. A. C. Child of this plsee, and '
one nephew, Arthur Howes, who resides ;
in the middle west.
Funeral services were held this after
noon at 1 oclock.
VETERANS ATTENDED.
Funeral of George P. Lund, Which Was
Held Tuesday Afternoon.
The funeral of t.eorge P. Lund, a vet
eran of the livh war ana ior many
years engaged as a cobbler in Barre.
whose death occurred at his home on
Third street Saturday evening, was held
at the house Tuesday afternoon at 2
o'clock. Rev. J. H. Reardon, pastor of
the I niversalist church, officiating. An
unusually large gathering of Grand Army
men attended the services, there being
ten members of R. B. Crandall post, to
which the deceased was attached, in at
tendance. The bearers were: John W.
Averill and George I. Berkley, members
chest ra furnished music and a banquet
wound tin the festivities. The celebration
was postponed from a week ago because iof the post. Oorge W. Sherwell of Laco-
of the death of Mrs. Howe, wife of Judge nia. N. H-. and illiatn Kuchanan.
Harland B. Howe. At 7:20 o'clock this morning the body
. was taken over the M. & W. R. railroad
Mrs. William Marr and son. Julius jto Laeonia, X. H., where it will be placed
Chamberlain, of Franklin street went to Jin a receiving vault until next spring.
Rutland this morning to pa the boll- when interment will b made in Baysida
day with relatives. sjrmeterj. . .. ,j
