LUME XXXII. LAURENS, SOUTH CAROLINA, WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 29,1916. NUMBER 19
[N ROUIT[ NOM[
III Reach State Qapital
Today.
USTERED OUT IN
SEVERAL DAYS
dvices Received from Texas Indicate
that the Laurens Boys and Others of
the 1st Regiment will Arrive in Co
lumbia Some Time Today.
According to dispatches in the daily
apers, the 1st South Carolina regi
ent, of which the Traynham Guards
one unit, left El Paso, Tex., Monday
nd will arrive at Camp Moore, near
umbia, about Friday. It was
ought that they would leave there
turday, but they were delayed by an
accident in .toi'e railroad yards. The trip
raim'ElI Paso to this state-does not or
dinarily take as long as this one by the
soldiers, but the traveling time is made
-longer because the soldiers nake stom
along the way to take exercise and
irest.
The .exadt length of the stay in Co
lumbia cannot be foretold, as the de
tails incidental to mustering out are
uncertain. However, it is thought that
the soldier lads will be at Camp Moore
for at loast a week and probably long
ter,
When the announcement was nade
that the 'local boys would reach tome
at :an earty date an agitation was be
gun for some kind of suitable recep
tion upon their arrival here. Although
definite plans have not been laid yet,
it is understood that some form(of en
tertainmont will be provided when
they reach here. Big preparations are
also being made in the state capital
sui a ce lbraion. so the boys -will no
doubt receive a royal wolcuome upon
their return.
The following is the roll of -he com.
pany as at present constituted:
Captain-Arthur Lee.
1st Lieut.-Dixon R Slmpson.
2nd Lieut.--.Joe. F .Smith
1st Sergeant-John R Eidbelberger.
S'upply Sergeant-WillIam 'H. Dial,
Jr.
Mess Sergeant-Warren M. Snoddy.
Sergeants-Ben A. Sullivan, James
Lewis, Charles F. Alexander., James C.
Cannon, Lucius S. Bolt, William F.
Martin.
Corporals--Claude Weathers, Lau
rens T. Fuller, John P. Caldwell, Mur
phy T. Sumerel, James La. Prince,
George L. Templeton, Jesse 'B. Couch.
Cooks-.John R. Ledford, 'Willis L.
Burton.
Mechanic-John T. Whaley.
Buglers--Pierce B. Irby, Wdbert T.
Parnett.
Privates, First COlass
Ludie F. Avery, William H. A. Baldwin
Lewis H. Bagwell, James W. Barnett,
Oscar W. Bobo, 'William C. dctt,
'Dock J. Buchanan, Glenn Bull,
Luther R. Corbin, fohn W. Crsmer,
Tiliman Obeen, Johmnie Hamilton,
'Mossie Howard, Jdhn T. Lisettby,
'Sanford 1B. Mdedlock, John Radbmfdi,
Allen 10~. Bumnerel, B. Walker,
1Auther F. Walker,
Privates
Ruafus 8. Ayes-s, John 'T. Barnet1,,
Samuel S. Barton, Carl C. Brown,
.Jdhn C. Butler, Ben Oanpbell,
Leonard Coggins, Christopher C. Orad
doek,
Albert B. IEdwatals, Georae Y. Fergison
William W. Gawltney, 10dward P. V.
Hlartin,
John R. Little, 21l1s C. McMillan,
Julian R. MicAlister, Loyd P. Moon,
Robert Nelson, Noah C. Power,
Cecil J. 'Radford, Robert R. Rickman,
White L. Roberts, Blenjawin L. Rush,
Winslow P. Rushton,
The First South Carolina infantry,
ordered home from the border several
days ago, has had more than three
months of duty on the frontier. Mob
ilized June 23 at the State rifle range
near~ Columbia, the regiment left its
camp there Mlondiay, August 7, In
three special trains and arrivedi at
1E1 Paso Friday, August 11, with a
strength slightly in excess of 1,000.
Trho other South Carolina units mobi
1lized were started for 10l Paso Wed
nesdiay, August 9, and arrived after
five days. These units, all of which
remain in the southwest. are the See
opgjl infantry, Troop A, South Carolina
cavalry; Company A, South Carolina
engineers, and Ponn'h Carolinn Fiel
JERSEY COW SELECTED
AS OFFICIAL DAIRY BREED
Live Stock Association Met in the
Court House and Laid Plans for
Active Campaign in the Interest of
Live Stock.
The Laurens County Live Stock As
sociation met in the Court House Wed
nosday afternoon, after the Doll Weevil
meeting, and transacted some import
ant business. Mr. J. Wade Anderson
was elected president for the coining
year and Mr. C. A. Power, secretary
and treasurer. The association select
ed the Jersey as the official breed of
dairy cattle for the county, and a spe
cial effort will be launched at once
through its officers, together with the
help of the county IDemonstration
Agent, to secure as many clubs as pos
sible throughout the county for the
purchase of pure bred bulls for the
breeding up of dairy herds in this
cunty.
The association adjoutned to meet
Monday afternoon, Dec 4th, at 2
o'clock. It is hoped that all farmers
interested in live stock will make it a
point to be present.
Mir. Moore, the Demonstration Agent
says that he is able to secure Joel G.
Winkjer, expert In organization of bull
clubs, for Thursday the 7th, to meet
with the Live Stock association if they
can get together at that time. ills ter
ritory comprises all the States. As he
is considered an auth*rity on live
stock breeding, Mr. Moore is particu
larly anxious to use him for one day
just at this time, having assurance of
the important part live stock will play
in the plans for getting ready for the
boll weevil.
MRS. J. J. ELLARSON DIES
FROM EFFE*CIE OF BURNS
Dress Acel entally Caught on Fire and
Burns Oamse her Death.
Mrs. J. J. Ellarson, of the Laurens
Cotton Mills village, died Friday even
ing from the effects of burns she re
ceived Monday when her clothes
caught afire while he was standing
by the fireplace. The body was car
ried to Cedar Shoals cemetery in
Spartanburg county, and interred by
the side of -relatives.
Mrs. Ellarson was standing in front
of the fireplace. or leaning on the man
tiepiece when the accident occurred.
1Her clothes became gited from the
flames and before the blaze could be
smothered she was so seriously burn
ed that little hope was held out for
her recovery. She lingered in intense
agony for several days when the end
came.
The dennasod is sur. ived by her hus
zand and three step-children. Her
mother, Mrs. Smith, in a tresident of
the Watts .Mills village. She was about
thirty years of age.
"Uncle .lack" Glynn, who is now
domiciled down arounM Clinton, was
circulating among his friends in Lau
rens Monday. "Uncle ,ack" can't stay
away from Laurens for any length of
tiene, so comej up every now and then
to get a breath of the 'eo'urt house air.
Hospital No. 1.
Col. E. M. Blyvthe of G.Rtonv~Ille .com
mands the First regiment, ieut. Col.
P. K. Mc~ully, .Nr., of Anderson is
second in command. The chaplain is
the Rev. R. C. Jaier of .Athen.
The line and auxilliary units of the
regiment are as O!allows-:
First battalion, commanded by Maj.
R. F. Watson, Greenville, comprises:
Company A., Greenville, 'Capt. W.. D.
Workman; Company B, Anderson,
Capt. L. L. I~gon; Company C., Pelzer,
COapt. IR. C. Heywardi; 'Compa~ny D,
Laurens, Capt.. Arthur Lee.
Secondl battalion, commianded by
Maj. T. B. Spratt, Fort Mill, com
prises: Company E, Union, Capt. .J.
F. Walker, Jr.; Company F, Spartan
burg, Capt. BI. F. Justlee; Company
0, Fort Mill1, Capt. S. W. Parks; Comn
Paniy H-, Rlock Hill1, Capt. h. C. Mc
Faddlen.
Third battalion, commanded by
Maj. E. C. von Tresckow, Camiden,
r-omprises: Comnpany I, Cheraw, Caplt.
WV. V. Iiillsi; (Company L., I a rts
vili, Capt. RL. 10. Craig; Company K,
Andlerson, ('apt. Ri. D. Hlenderson:
Company M, C!amden, Capt. E. .
McJ~eod.
Auxilliaries are as follows: Ifead
quarters comp~any, Greenville, Capt.
(1. 11. Mahon (regimental adjutant);
suplply cornpiany, Grcenvilloe, Capt. ..
E. Soy bi; Machine Gun company, An
derson. Cant. Ralph namne
NO MORE SOLDIERS
AT ANDERSON MILLS
Last of the Five Companies of Coast
Artillery Decamp from Strike Zone.
Anderson, Nov. 27.-The last of the
five companies of coast artillery
which have been on guard at the
Equinox and Gluck mills for the past
two weeks returned home this after
noon. The Greenwood company left
at 10 o'clock this morning and the
Jonesville company left at I o'clock.
The orders for the Jonesville company
to return this afternoon came from
the Governor's office this morning.
Quiet prevails at both mills tonight.
The number of operatives at work at
the Equinox mill has reached three
hundred and twenty-five, while the
number at work at the Gluck mill has
gotten up to one hundred and ten.
Four writs of ejectment against the
residents of each mill village were is
sued today and others will be issued
tomorrow.
Before leaving the city Major Rob
ertson' issued a public astatement
thanking the people of the communi
ty for the courtesies and kindness
shown his men during their stay here.
He also thanker the men of his com
'mnand for the splendid services ren
dered. The members of the five com
panies made many warm and fast
friends in Anderson and they left a
splendid impression on all the people.
Mrs. Loilse Bolt.
Mrs. Louise Bolt passed away at
her home near Shiloh Friday. Ai
though Mrs. Bolt had been ill for sev
eral months her death came as a shock
to her friends. birs. Bolt was highly
respected by all who knew her. The
remains were laid to rest at Ralun
cemetery Saturday. Mrs. Bolt is sur
vived by her husband and several chil.
dren.
Dollar .for Democracy.
The Advertiser has received ana re
initted to the State $1.00 for the Demo
cratic election fund from the former
Laurens county citizeh, Mr. T. H. Nei
son, now living in Etowah, Tenn.
Card of Thanks.
We want to thank our neighbors and
friends for their kindness shtwn us
during the short illness and death of
our darling tittle Bernice, whom the
Angels have called home. jlay God's
blessings reat upon every one of them.
Mr.,nid Mrs. Edgar Blakely.
('hange in Pastorates.
Announcement has been :made of a
hange in the appointments of the Up
per South Carolina Conference by
'which Rev. .M. T. Wharton returns to
Fountain Inn and Rev. R. F. Morris to
'Ninety Six. These two preachers
were stationed at these points last
year, so they will not have to move
ilhis year.
GreenenPe Downs Laurens.
The Iaurens high school foot-ball
team met its 'aterloo on the fields of
Greenville lagst Friday afternjoon, when
the Greenville high school team de
feated them by ,a scor~e of 27 to 7. In
this game lIaurens lads were scored
on for the first time in two seasons.
They came back game, however, put
ting tup no exeuse except that the
Greenville boys .'eere just tooe:much fo
them. The Laurens boys put up a
good game, but -were unable to cope
with thme well aftled machine of the
mountalin lads. T'his game put the
rIaurens team "out of the money" for
the chagnpionshipm of the Piedmont.
This will likely be iteclared afiter the
balttle betwteen the Greenvple high
school and the Spartanburg tearn.
'Bea Supper at Lisbon.
A box supper will be given at Lis
'bog school house Friday evening, De
comber 8th. The Laurens qluartetle is
expectedl to furnish music. The pub
lie is invited to attend and assist in
the worthy cause.
Play at lIarksdale,
A play wviil betgiven at the Unarksdale
school house Thursday night for the
benefit of the school. An admisi~on
fee of ten cents wviii be charged. After
the lay oysters will be sold lby the
ladies of the improvement association,
Entertainmet(nt at Mountvll,
Miss Bleulah 'Elwood McNemar, an
impersonator of lKeyser, W. Va., will
give an entertainment in the audi
'torium of the Mountville graded school
'building next Fr'iday night, Dec. 1st at
7:30. Adults 25c; children 1lic.
ROMANCE AND THRILLS
01ALIE IN "MISTER 44"
Metro's New Lockwood-Allison Vehicle
Colorful Picture.
Harold Lockwood and May Allison,
the popular and talented stars now
appearing together in Metro wonder
plays, will be seen on the screen here
at the Opera House on Monday, Dec.
4th In "ister 44", a flive part feature
filled with romance and beauty. This
production is said to be the best that
this brilliant couple has ever appeared
in and it carries a wide appeal. Mr.
Lockwood and Miss Allison are sur
rounded by an unusually strong sup
porting cast headed by Lester Ouneo,
the well known leading man, Frank
lin Hall, Yonda Landowska, IHenry Ot
to, Aileen Allen, Bell Hutchison.
MINTER COMPANY ANNEX.
Well Appointed Little Store Opened by
Minter Company to Handle Men's
Wear.
Minter Company Annex is the name
of a well appointed little store which
has been opened by Minter Company
next to their main store on the public
-square. A comrlete line of men's
ready-to-wear, haberdashery, etc., will
be carried, the store being especially
intended to appeal to the menfolks.
Mr. Yancy Gilkerson will be in charge
of this place and he invites all of his
friends to call on him there. He ex
pects to make it the busiest little place
in town and promises to carry every
thing in the latest styles and fabrics.
TRlJNMEN MAY STRIKE.
Head of N. C. & St. L. Refuses to Con
fer with Labor Ooiulttee.
'Nashville, Tenn., Nov. 25.-Engin
eers, firemen, conductors and trainmen
of the Nashville., Chattanooga and St.
Louis Railway company were polled on
the question of a strike on that road as
the result of the refusal of President J.
II. Peyton to confer with a joint com
mittee representing the employes. The
result will be announced Thursday.
Stores 'to (lose Tomorrow.
According to the usual custom., the
stores of the city are expected to close
for the Thanksgiving holiday tomor
row. Hioneewives are expected to an
tielpate their 'needs for the day and
order their supplies today.
Serious 'Fire Narrowly Avolded.
Hot ocals .falling on the floor in the
home of Mr. T. C. Switzer Saturday
night about ten o'clock came very near.
causing a serious fire. The room was
vacant -al. 'the time and a large hole
was burned in the floor before Mrs.
Switzer discovered it. A bucket of wa
ter conveniently near at hand saved
the fire department from a hasty run
and the fire was put out.
'Rev. MeLendon Here.
Rev. Baxter L. McLendon, the evan
gelist, p'eacled to a large cogrega
tion in the First Baptist church Mon
day night. The church was overflow
ing with peop'ie and the evangelist
preached a versy powerful sermon, lie
has inst closed -a meeting at Clinton,
where there were -many convers'kons.
Japanese Sale.
The Davies Missionary Society of
the Methodist church will conduct a
sample sale in the store room next
door to Powe Drug 'Co., next Wednes
day, Now. 6th, instead of thme 8th as
formerly advertIsed. Japanese a r
ticles, tea and sandwiches will be on
sale.
'Services in Presbyterian Church.
Rev. Gleo. WV. Belk, of Charlotte, be
gan a series of special services in the
First Presbyterian church Sunday
morning. Services will continue for
pr'obabiy two weeks, two services be
ing held dally. The mornIng ser'vice
is held( at 10 o'clock and~ the evening
service at 7:30. A feature of the meet
ing will lbe the song servi('e before the
plreaching. Prof. Low~dy, who hma.4
bieen withi thme Mel endIon parlty in ('lIIn
ton, is ini charge or the mu sie. Th'le
puli I is Inavit ed to attlend all t he ser'
VlIees.
Miss Itlanchme Shell. who has beenm
imdergoing treatmnt in Colunmbia for'
4everal wveeks, has returned to the city
very much implrovedl in health. She
is not yet able, however, to take iup
her duties with thme Switzer Company,
vhere she is nminvoy1
FIND NO SOLUTION OF
INSURANCE MUDDLE
Insurance Commission Adjourns After
Considering Numerous Proposals.
Commissioners and Insurance Men
Disagree on States ]tight to Iteview
Rates.
Columbia, Nov. 25.-The commission
named by Gov. Mlanning to consider
necessary steps towards clearing up
the fire insurance situation adjourned
at an early hour this morning without
coming to any conclusion on the many
proposals submitted by representatives
of the companies at the hearings yes
terday. The committee went into exe
cutive session last night at .i o'clock
and after threshing over the whole
programme until 1:30 this morning ad
journed to meet again on Tuesday
week. It is hoped that by then the
commission will be able to agree on
the situation and begin forming a ten
tative draft of the bill to offer at the
approaching session of the General As
sembly.
The main bone of contention 'be
tween the withdrawing coipanies and
the State is over the matter of control
of rates. The companies contend that
they were doing business at a loss in
South Carolina under the old rates of
the Southeastern Tariff bureau and
that it is unfair for the State to inter
fere With the rates until such time as
the companies are showing an unrea
sonable profit on the aggregate busi
ness. This was the point stressed by
J. H. Doyle, attorney for the National
Board of Fire Underwriters and he
suggested that the Pennsylvania law
be adopted and that, in his opinion,
the companies would not object to a
provision written in that law allowing
the State to review crates after a period
of flive years should it develop that
the profit on the aggregate business in
that period was in excess of a reason
able amount.
Sonic of the commission were not
disposed favorably towards surrender
ing the power of the State to review
insurance rates and if found excessive
to substitute a rate fixed by the State.
Senator Laney, of Chesterfield, author
of the Haney-Odom anti-compact bill
and one of the members of the present
commission Indicnted that he might
he willing to agree to a modification
of the anti-compact laiv hut that lie
w:',ud hold out for the right of the
State to review rates. This was the
rock on which the representatives of
the companies and the State split and
'inless something more dlevelops than
what took place at the conference of
yesterday more work is going to have
to be (lone before any steps can be
taken to clear up the situation. One
of the representatives of the compan
ies yesterday made it plain that in his
opinion the companies would not re
turn to the State unless they had the
power to make rates unhampered by
the State or the Insurance Commis
sioner.
That the valued policy clause should
b repealed seemed to he generally
agreed on and it was also developed
thatt something must he (lone in tihe
mater of municipal taxes on inur
ance compmanies. The proposal of the
commission to recommend a fire in
qluest law was received favorably by
the companies as was tihe suggestion
to employ an expert to teach the fire
departments of the towns how to tight
fire. It was pointed out that some step
towards reduction of the enormous
fire loss must be taken before any
thing cotuld be done towards lowering
the cost of fire insurance.
All of the comlpanies proclaimed the
most friendly feeling for South Caro
lina and said they withdrew simply
because it was impossible to do a busi
ness in the Srtate uinder tile present
laws and at a profit. They say they
aire ready to come back juist as soon
as the laws and cond~itlons permit them
to doi so qind make a reasonable piotit.
WiOlhMiEN 3SEETlNO.
Nyeeiiai (ailed 31eetinig of P'(eian (am'p
No. !7, of (Gray (Curt.
TIhe re will b~e a enalled meeting of'
Pe(Can~ Campij No. 2:37 at (iray (ourit oil
next F'iriday night, ilee. Ist at 7-;3,.
Thle degrees w ill lbe confeirrd on
large class at this meetinug. We Wat
all the candidates to lbe onj handI, and~
espe('(aliy metlmest every membier of
our Camflp to attend. .Alembers of oilher
camilps are cordially invited to lie ith
t-s J. E. Johnson,
Nov. 27, 1916- Cleik.
AN AT[NTIV[ H[AR
ING ON OLL W[[Vt
Large Number of Farmers
Here Wednesday.
GOVERNOR MANNING
AMONG SPEAKERS
(Gov. It. I. Manning, Dr. W. W. Long
and Prof. lcLain Talk in Plain and
Unmistakable 'Terurs on Damare
which May itesirlt From the Weevil.
Gov. Richard 1. Manning, Dr. W. W.
Long and Mir. McLain spoke before a
large and attentive body of farmers in
the Court House Wednesday, the meet-,
ing having been called by Farm
Demonstrator Moore. The meeting was
presided over by Mr. Moore. Among
those in attendanep were many from
adjoining counties. Sen. Wharton and
Representatives Rich'ey ,ad Boozer
were also present.
The purpose of the meeting was to
inform the farmers of Laurens and
adjoining counties as to what they
may expect from the inroads of the
boll weevil in case no preparation Is
made for his coming. Gov. Manning
and Dr. Long were asked to be present
'to give their views on the situation and
to tell of their trip through the boll
weevil section during the early fall.
Gov. Manning made the first address
of the day. The governor spoke in
earnest tones, indicating by his words
and manner how serious he considered
the situation confronting the farmers
of this state should'they fail to make
due preparation to ward off the devas
tating effects of the boll weevil. The
governor introduced his remarks with
a reference to his duties and obliga
tions as governor of the state. He
spoke of the value of education and
training, pointing out that, the man
ufacturers of other sections were pro
fiting by the labor of the southern
farmer because the former had reduc
Ied their work to a businesslike and
scient.iflc basis. lie pointed out the
losses to this state by reason of the
failure to grow necessities at home.
"We are an extravagant and wasteful
people," he said, stating that. there i4
not a single county even in North
Carolina where its people grow their
own food supply.
Taking up the subject of the boil
weevil, the governor gave some imi
pressions of his visi( to Louisiana and
other states as a member of the boll
weevil commission. At firt, he aid,
the states appeared to have suffered a
disaster, when the cotton crop fell
from over a million bales in Louisiana
to 233,000. In one county the crop
fell from 22,000 to 431 bales. Business
was demoralized and credit appeared
to take wings. In some sections, es
pecially where the farms were in large
tracts and the landlord did not live on.
it, the land grew up in weeds because
the renters, especially the negroes,
could not stand the losses and left. In
another place he visited, the mer'chants
and farmers got together and determ
1ined to stick to each other. The rmer
chants continuedl to make .advances
land helped the farmers to buy pigs,
cattle, seed, etc., and encouraged at
'diversified farming. They grew gr'ain,
peps, wheat, potatoes, stock, etc. They
organized a creoamery and shipped
their butter to the cities. At first, this
section went through a period of pr'iv'a
tion and wvant, but the people finally
emerged in better shape than they had
been before the boll weevil attacked
them. Wbile they still grew cotton on
a small scale, they diver'slled their
other cr'ops and hived at home. Thet
banks, lhe said, andl the mer'chanits In
this section wecrc In better shiape than
ever before. Taking the example of
this section, where all classes co-oi..
orated to fight the common e'viI, the
goverror rged c'o-operat ion as hre
t ween llt m'er hat , hanuker and( farme r as
thre key to fte .succssfunl wa(aei(r'in
of thre siorrm. Keep ft' labor on t he
farmr, Ire sarid. ia ise c acry thinig a I
hrome, live ecooniiica liy and pract ice
('lose attentionr to bjrinru' ,ird I le
(eails will he j'ar'lo ar'owid. '' ivet
yourself of any illusion."' lie sail. '" at
thre boll wee(' i!will not como' f'or' ih
Is alr'eadyv on t~'he ordler (of the Miato
arid may be explectedl next year andi
eArtainly the year after.''
Prof. Aleiin. of thei iryvjing l0e..
Irar'tmen t at. WashIiInon..fo'ow Wi .1bv.
Mlanning and pointed tiut the value
(Cor~finned en Pae i-iv. I
