Ne
d Citizen
" The only people who should not
advertise are those who have nothing
to offerH world in the way of
commc&k: service "-Hubbard.
We should be thankful that every
body who pulls a wishbone and gets
the long piece doesn't get his or her
wish.
w an
4
VOL. XXX . 9
MORRISVILLE, VERMONT, WEDNESDAY, NO VE3IBER 29,.H)1G.
$1.25 A TEAR
i
BIJOU THEATRE
W. M. JOHNSON, Manager
THURSDAY
"Girl from 'Frisco" Western.
"When Opportunity Kuocked" Ka
lem comedy.
' "The Foxy Trotters" Vita, comedy.
FRIDAY
"Love's Law" Lubin 8 part drama.
. "The Peach Pickers" Vita, comedy.
SATURDAY,
"Regeneration of Margaret" Essa
Bay. "For Value Received" Vim comedy.
MONDAY
"Would You Forgive Her ? " Vita-,-graph
Speoial.
"For Better or Worse" Vim comedy,
TUESDAY
"Thw Secret of the Submarine."
"Selig Tribune.'
"Oanimated Nooz" cartoon.
WEDNESDAY
Unole Tom's Uabiri."
Matinee, 8.80 p. m , 50 and 10c; even
ing, 7 and 8 50. lOo and 15c.
TURKEY DINNER
THANKSGIVING DAY
SO CENTS
AT DEPOT RESTAURANT
SEE HERE
Big demand for Old Iron and All Kinds
-of Junk. Bring it to Depot and get the
Highest Cash Price.
OSCAR KAHN
Morrisville's Original Junk Man
Telephone, 25-5. Lake Street, Morrisville Vt.
OOIME 1 1ST AND TUTST IT
NEW MUSIC EVERY WEEK
At the Popular Price of 10c
"Souveair Cards of All Kinds. Sewing Machine Needles and Supplies
ZE3 JV IVH ILLS
The Wilson Store, Portland Street, Morrisville, Vermont
AT SALBBBY'S
Store Overflowing
with the most
Seasonable Clothing
Every department is at its best and the
values are much better than you will expect to
find anywhere in these days of rising markets.
We have never shown such a complete
line of Women's Coatst Suits and Dresses as
we are showing at this time. The values are
the best that can be found.
Great assortment in Women's Fur Scarfs,
Muffs and Sets. Every Fur in our stock was
ordered before the big advance in price and you
can have the benefit of this saving.
Men's and Boys' Overcoats
Our line of Overcoats this season is well worth your
inspection. You must see them and try them on in order
to appreciate the materials, styles and values which we can
give you.
Sweaters, Mackinaws, Underwear, Hosiery, Gloves
and Mittens, and whatever else you can think of in the line
of Winter Clothing, you will find it here and at the right
prices.
A. J. SALEEBY
gTIIE STORE THAT SAVES YOU MONEY."
JOHNSON, VERMONT
BUSINESS NOTICES.
Wanted. Cook for lumber camp and a few
good Men. C. E. & P. O. BURT, Mowe, Vt.
For Sale Two Houses in Hyde Park Vil
lage: also, Small Farm, 75 acres.
Box 76, Hyde Park, Vt.
To Let. House on Newcomb farm. Would
prefer man who will work for owner
T. A. Woodard, Morrisville.
Cash Paid. Highest Cash Price paid for
Calves, Cheap Cows, Bulls and Hogs.
Tel.124-31 John Miner, Hydb Park.
Wanted. Rough Spruce and Fir Pulpwood
See us at once for prices and particulars.
C. H. Stafford & Sons, Morrisville.
Magazines and Periodicals. Special
Clubbing Offer for any combination. See us be
fore making up your order.
H. J. Edmunds, Morrisville.
Wanted. Dark Bronze Turkey Gobbler.
Must be one to two years old; full blood. Will
pay good price
Mrs. Dosty Lackard, Stowe.
For Sale. One pair Traverse Sleds, 1 Lum
ber Wagon, 1 Buggy Wagon, 1 Sleigh, t Driving
Harness, 1 Work Harness, 2 tsunaio KoDes ana
Blankets. C. D. Oakes. Johnson.
Car Owners. Attention. We are prepared
to Paint, Overhaul and Store your Car for the
winter, rrices right ana worK guarantees.
Hyde Pake. Garage.
Strayed. From my mountain pasture, two
2-year-old Heifeis, with hole punched in right ear.
Anyone haviag such in his possession, please noti
fy Norton . )onS, K-D. 2, Hyde Parkt
For Sale. A span of light Grey Horses.
good workers in mud or snow; a splendid farm
team; will sell with Harness. Have also, an In
cubator, a Butter Worker, a Turning Lathe, a
Wickless 3-burner Oil Stove, never was used; a
Morris Chair, and lot of Bran Sacks. Will sell at
a bargain. Apply at the Wood farm.
J. A. Wood, Morrisville R, F. D. 3.
Notice the leather sofa pillow displayed
in Earle's window. Isn't it a beauty?
Buy a ticket and help the ladies ot the
W. R. 0. Mrs. Earle has them. It will
be drawn Dec. 11. Further particulars
next week.
Daddy Longlegs tonight. -:,
At the Universalist Church.
Mrs. F. A Smith is receiving treatment
at Fanny Alien hospital.
Lyle Tillotson of St. Johnsbury will
sing at the Bijou Friday evening.
Remember, that Edmunds, the jeweler,
moves up to the Brown block Dec. 1st.
Mr. and Mrs Herbert Farnham and
son, Willard, spent Sunday in WaterLury.
M iss Caroline Stewart went Saturday
to Springfield, Mass., for a visit of two
weeks.
"The total number of deer killed in the
state todate is 1022. Lamoille County
has a record of 55.
Mrs. M. M. Mayo of St. Johnsbury
was a cuest over Sunday of her sister,
Mrs. N. H. Ellsworth.
Miss Minnie Gilnacof Hartford, Conn.,
returned home Saturday after visiting
her cousin , Miss Bessie Mayutt.
Glenn A. Wilkins made several of his
western friends happy by sending them
Vermont turkeys for Thanksgiving.
If you haven't been invited out, ust
partake of that turkey dinner at the
Railroad Restaurant Thanksgiving Day.
C. H. Slocum was in Burlington Sun
day to bee Mrs. Slocum, at the Hays san
itarium. He found her much improved.
Miss Bertha Delkhe returned Monday
from a visit in Cheribusco, N. Y., and
has resumed her work in the depot restau-
tant.
Mrs. Herbert Delong of Schuyler Falls
N. Y., was a guest last week atthe homes
of W. L. and Fred Durgan on Laporte
road.
Mrs. H. S. Richardson was called to
Cornwall, Ont., Saturday, on account of
the Illness of her mother. Mrs. Robert
Watson.
Mr. and Mrs. Percie Towne of St
Johnsbury and Miss Ila Towne of Bel
lows Falls, spentSunday at the homes of
of E. H. and G. E. Towne.
Misses Alice and Anna Mower go to
Burlington tonight and will be guests
over Thanksgiving of their brother,
Judge E. C. Mower, and family.
Rev. W. E. Baker was called to Otta
wti, Canada, this morning by the death
of his father, E. G. Baker, from the effects
of a shock, suffered about six months
ago. ...... - ,
Eighteen candidates were in town Sat
urdav to take examinations for rural
carriers to fill vacancies, four from Mor
risville, thirteen from Johnson and one
from Cambridge. The examinations were
held before Assistant Postmaster C. B.
Spaulding.
Rev. J. J. Bennett returned the first of
the week from Boston, Mass., and Roch
ester, N. H. Next Sunday he expects to
present the interests of the Boston Bible
School at the A. C. church in Waterbury,
Vt. Mrs. Bennett will supply the local
church again next Sunday.
States' Attorney Maurice was in Stowe
Monday where he prosecuted Henry De
Marrs, charged with shooting a deer with
horns less than three inches long. The
hearing was before Justice C. M. Watts
and DeMarrs was bound over to the
December term of court. Being unable
to secure boudsaien DeMarrs spent Mon
day night at Hyde Park.
Mrs. Deete Woodward has received
news ot the deatn ot Dr. Artnur raui
Woodward, aged nearly 64 years, who
died suddenly at his home in Northfield,
Minn., November 6 of rheumatismiof the
I ocari, li . tiu'juwaiu was a uaims wi
i i. r xr i
I Danville, being the eldest son of Dr. Cal
vin and Susan Woodward, late of Dan
ville, and a brother of the late Dr. Geo.
E. Woodward, a former practitioner in
Morrisville.
".Where Are My Children"
There were four hundred and seventy
five tickets sold for the photo-drama,
"Where Are My Children", shown at the
Bijou Monday alteraoon and evening.
This picture is doubtless, the strongest
ever shown in Morrisville. It teaches a
great .lesson and in a manner that can
not be otherwise than elevating and
helpful. Morrisville people have nothing
but words of commendation for it and
appreciate the enterprise of Manager
Johnson in getting the picture for his
patrons.
A Big Improvement
A. U. Adams has recently completed
some much needed improvments to the
stage settings atthe Morrisville town
hall, including some double scenes, one
side being a parlor scence and the other
a kitchen scene. Atthe rear of the
stage is a fire place and dainty, new
valance adds much to the furnishings of
the stage. Mr. Adams is an artist at
this class of work and the improvements
will be much appreciated. The change
this small outlay by the selectmen has
made in the appearance of the old hall,
suggests other much needed improve
ments that would not be expensive. j
The New Brigham Factory
The new milk factory of the C. Brig
ham Company is nearing completion
and the machinery is nearly all installed
and ready for use. The company has
complied with the state requirements for
outside concerns by depositing a $200,
000 bond. . The plant will cover a wide
territory in all directions from Morris
ville and already has several milk routes
in operation.
The building is 92 feet long by 50 feet
wide and the ground floor, all of concrete,
consists of receiving rooms, storage and
factory, all equipped with the most mod
ern machinery, including two pasteuriz
ing tanks, that are made with the latest
improvements costing $750 each, and
two Disbrow churns and butter workers.
Sanitary piping throughout has been in
stalled and both electric and steam pow
er will be used. G. P. Knowlton, from
Bellows Falls, has been in town the past
two weeks overseeing the piping and
plumbing, the latter work being done by
C. W. McFarland.
The Brigham Co. has 246 factories in
the New England states, 46 of which are
in Vermont. The Morrisville plant will
be run as a receiving station and butter
and cheese factory. While butter making
will be the chief business, it is probable
that cheese will be made quite extensive
ly at certain seasons of the year. A part
of the second story will be used for the
cheese business and in the front part ot
this floor an up-to-date office is being
equipped.
The superintendent of the new plant is
A. B. Judd, formerly of Bakersfield, who
is an expert, having bad 25 years' expe
rience. He has moved his family to Mor
risville and they are to occupy the new
tenement finished off in a part of the
Flanders house on Waban Avenue.
A Mock Wedding
Abouttwenty-five former school friends
of Miss Sadie Edgerton, daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. Charles Edgerton of Morris
town Plains, gave ber a linen shower
last Thursday night in honor of her ap
proaching marriage to Glen Miles, son of
Mr. and Mrs. Andrew Miles of Albany,
Vt. An amusing feature of the aflair was
a mock wedding, in which the hostess
was required to take the part of the bride,
while. Miss Edytbe Stewart acted the
part pf the, bridegroom, with Doris Graves
as best man and Esther Greene as brides
maid and Esther Wallace as minister.
The mock ceremony, which was carried
out with due regard to proper form and
custom, was performed under an arch
way of evergreens, leading to which the
pathway was strewn on either side with
a large number of presents, consisting of
linen, china, etc. Refreshments of cake
and coflee were served and the evening
was voted a most enjoyable one.
District Nurse
The plans in regard to the visiting
nurse are progressing nicely although it
is not probable that she can commence
work the first of December as was first
expected. The idea seems to have aroused
very general interest one of the most re
cent manifestations of which is a gift of
$5 from the Uplift Club which was the
m re appreciated as it came without
solicitation.
Because the question has been asked in
many instances the committee would like
to state that ber work will not be chari
ty work except when that is necessary.
A scale of prices of fifty cents and twenty-
five cents per hour has been fixed by the
committee in consultation with the local
doctors. Further details of the work
will be given later.
Entertainment Course
Friday evening, Dec. 1st is the date for
the third number of the Entertainment
Course, and the attraction at that time
will be the Musical Art Quartette of
Chicago.
The Musical Art Quartette is a male
quartette which comes highly recom
mended, and which aims at artistic exe
cution and a satisfying oerformance.
Usually male quartette programs are
not on a par with those given by other
musical companies of no greater ability;
but the Musical Art Quartette has the
reputation of being a notable exception
to this rule. Both the natural talent,
and the careful training of the members,
individually and collectively, enable them
to present acceptably whatever they
undertake, while the exquisite blending
of their voites is a marked feature of this
superior entertainment.
The quartette is composed of Hugh
Aspiowall, first tenor; W. P. Lovelass,
second tenor; Fred Bollman, baritone;
Gustare Spaethe, bass.
If you like a good male quartette be
sure to attend this concert.
Lamoille County Court
Csunty Court convenes Tuesday of
nexi week with Hon. L. P. Slack presid
ing. There are 75 cases on the docket, of
whijh fire are for jury trial. There are
six state cases and 17 petitions for di
vorx. There will be some work for the
grald jury this term.
Qu About
Is your home looking just as you would have it look when
your guests arrive ? It costs so little to replace this somewhat
worn piece, to fill up that awkward empty corner with a com
fortable Easy Chair or the like.
Why not get that new Dining Ta
ble, Chair, Buffet or China Cabinet
now ? We can give you some exceptional Bargains.
Remember, everything in this line is advancing, and the
wholesale prices are higher now on many articles in our stock
than the price marked thereon. A word to the wise buy now.
M. B. WHI TE & CO.
LAMOILLE
UNDERTAKING
COUNTY'S LARGEST HOME FURNISHERS
The Temple Fair
The committee of arrangements for the
Temple Fair, to be held by Ml. Vernon
Lodge, F. & A. M.Jan. 813, report
fine progress in securing prizes and every
thing points to a most successful event.
Following is a list of prizes, as printed
on the tickets and many more have since
been secured:
Dining table, one-fourth barrel of flour,
one ham, waterproot coat, lour gold
pieces of $2 50 each, one 20-year endow
ment policy, one $3.00 gold piece, five
children's life insurance policies, two
shaving tickets, $2 00 worth of milk
tickets, bank book with $10 00 deposit,
Uncle Sam Plow, 10 Subs.' Morrisville
Messenger, 10 Subs. News and Citizen,
six-weeks-old pig, electric flat-iron, two
fountain pens, accident policy, five-bun
dred cigars, one watch.
There will be over 200 other prizes,
not mentioned. in the above last. - ifie
tickets are selling fast and indications
are that this fair will even eclipse those
formerly held by the Morrisville band
and that wiil be some stunt. If you
have not yet secured your tickets, you
will have no trouble in finding some.
Woman's Club
The next meeting of ihe Wcsian's Club,
Dec. 7th, will be a public meeting, and
will be held in the assembly room of the
Academy building, at 7;30 p. m.
The music committee, who have this
meeting in charge, are arranging an un
usual program, along a line heretofore
untried in Morrisville. It should be of
peculiar interest to the parents of young
children, and they are especially invited
to be present.
Rollo G. Reynolds, of Montpelier, who
needs no introduction to the people of
Morrisville, and Miss Eliot, the Super
visor of Music in the Johnson Normal
School will take prominent parts in the
program; while Miss Dorothy Harris, of
the P. A. faculty, is assisting in the prep
arations. An instructive, interesting aud enter
taining program is assured, and every
one interested in musical advancement is
urged to attend.
HYDE PARK
A. J. Clark and wile were visitors in
Burlington yesterday.
Harold Hebb of Barre is spending a
few days here with his brother Rollo.
Mrs. E. G. Page returned from the
hospital today much improved in health.
The fever has left Frank Keeler and
there seems to be a change for the better.
Miss Winnie Billings of Newport spent
several days recently at the Breezy Hill
Dairv Farm.
HYDE
PARK
U IRE
I)
A NEW LINE OF MATERIALS FOR FANCY WORK
which includes linens, fancy linen buck, crochet cottons, embroidery floss, hoops,
embroidery silks, tatting cotton, shuttle,' crochet books, embroidery needles,
stamped articles, packaee outfits, cheny lace edgings, fringe, fane? ribbons, wool
slipper soles for women and children, and many other things that will interest yoa.
OUR SEALSHIPT OYSTERS " popular. Two lbs. pure Bonelesa
Cod lor !45o and a regular Hoa bottle ot Tomato Ketchup for 10c are only two of th
many items which our customers get the largest possible returns for their money.
Bargain Day Specials, Saturday, Dec. 2nd, Only:
SUGAR, 0 lbs. Granulated for 70cts with a purchase of one dollar or more of other
goods. Regular 29a Flannelette Skirts, two for 49c Men's Sweaters 65a. Call la.
A. J. Cl-r iVKKZ, ... Hyde l'firlt. '
Your Homo?
AMBULANCE SERVICE
Main Street, Morrisville, Vermont
Lucius Whitcomb has gone to the
Fanny Allen Hospital for treatment.
The Odd Fellow worked the Initia.
tory Degree upon a real live candidate
last evening.
Col. and Mrs. McFarland are spending
Thanksgiving with Mr. and Mrs. Doug
lass at Brandon.
Mrs. Lena Ward well and son, Stanley,
of Portland, Me., are visitors at the
home of H. B. Lanpher.
Miss Bettie Baker of Montclair, N. J.,
is spending the Thanksgiving vacation
with Miss Natalie Noyes.
Arthur Perry of Somerville, Mass., is
making a Thanksgiving visit at the
home of his father, J. Q. Perry.
Mr. and Mrs. Ralph Cutting of Bur,
lington were Sunday visitors at the
home of their cousin, Frank Brown.
The Home Culture Club will meet with
MraraXhas. -Goddard Tuesday evening, .
Dec. 5th. It will be a social affair and
the ladies are requested to come dressed
as children. .
Prof. Simpson has gone to Boston for
a few days' visit. While there he will
attend the Billy Sunday meetings and
perhaps give some attention to kinder
garten methods.
School at the L. C. A. closed this after-'
noon until next luesday morning, at
which time it is expected that all hands,
teachers and scholars, will have fully re-
eovered from their Thanksgiving festiv
ities. In answer to frequent enquiries co a
cerning Col. Sawyer we would say that
although very feeble his condition re.
mains about the same. Some days his
mind is quite clear and then be lapses
into indifference as to his surroundings.
On Thursday evening ot next week
comes the annual men's supper at the
Cong'I church. The young men who
have the affair in charge say it will be
"the best ever," and besides the gastro
nomic event there will be "a feast of rea.
son and flow of soul."
Two excellent Thanksgiving sermons
were preached at the Cong'I church last
Sunday one in the morning by Rev. Mr.
Hamlin and one in the afternoon by Rev.
Mr. Carner. Both were worthy of much
larger audiences. We know this to be
true because we beard both discourses.
Herb Fairbanks bad his hog butchered
last week. He was somewhat surprised
when the butcher told him that it tipped
the scales at 460 lbs. As the aforesaid
butcher always tells the truth, and as
the scales bear the official seal, the weight
is correct. Dan Smith also had his hog
slaughtered, the "guess" weigbtof which
was 400 lbs.
A STRANGER IN TOWN
asked ''Why is this store called The New
Store ?" Our reply was "Because EVRY
TEIXG in the store is new." And now how
much is it worth to you to know that every
thing you buy at The New Store Is fresh
and new t That you are getting the best
grade of goods at the lowest prices, and that
you are petting a discount on every dollar's
worth of Groceries, Dry Goods, Boots and
Shoes that you buy f We have tl best COF
FEE for 20 and 25cts. that can be found for
he money, A trial will convince you. Oar
3So Coffee, "Revenue," is leader. Try it !
