'H
IS
Vol. 27 ' SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 2, 1016 No2l y JH
Distress In The Cities
LOOKING from, a distance the situation in the
cities of the east seems just now to he very
dangerous. All the accounts agree that those
cities are filled with money; the same accounts
agree that in each one of them there are thou
sands of people on the verge of starvation, which
makes us know intuitively that there are thou
sands of delicate women and little children, who
atn ight go half supperless to bed. That is the
situation which swiftly converts naturally kindly
men into half wild beasts, which in a breath are
converted into incendiaries, and which needs but
a cry, to usher in a reign of violence. Those
cities ought to move in self defense. Their of
ficers, their boards of trade, all their quasi-public
bodies should move in concert- to prevent the
violence which is imminent over them now. There
should be superintendence in every ward in the
I city. There should be a house to house patrol
in every block, every case of destitution should
be sought out, reported and relieved. It would
no doubt be a costly business but it would be
much cheaper, than to wait a little longer until
in an excess of suffering the wild beast in the
breasts of the poor is aroused and the city is
given over to plunder and to flame.
To meet emergencies of that kind, in every
state, is what the income tax should have been
devoted to, but no matter, the call is upon those
cities, all the property in those cities is in jeop
ardy, and it will be cheaper for them to move
at once than to take the risk of what will be in
case the wild beast in human nature breaks its
chain, and starts out to prey on the property of
all indiscriminately. In olden days in the cities,
before gas was invented, or electricity was
tamed, the watchman called the hours, proclaim
ing through the night that all was well. That is
what peaceful citizens want to hear now through
. the hours, that all is well. There should be a
block patrol in every city. There should be a
court to hear their report every morning, with
power to relieve the distressed. It would not
only protect the poor, but detect the depraved
who prowl at night. There would be extra cost
k to provide for the worthy or the helpless. There
would be reduced cost in watching and prosecut
ing the depraved. There would be an increased
sense of security to the peaceable citizen, and
I this close walk would inure to the public good.
That Peace Conference
l HPHB motives, no doubt, of the men and women
who are moving- toward a plan of peace con-
' ferenco are excellent, but we fear for their suc-
cess. They have not in their natures enough that
is belligerent, and sagacious to meet the obstacles
' which they will encounter. Tigers cannot be sub
dued by feeding them soothing syrup, while yet
they are in full fury.
To one looking on, it seems as though the de
fi sign ought to be, without direct approach to the
t fighting forces, to prepare a code which all na
- tions would approve of and bo willing to both
1 1 adopt and defend.
We do not believe that such a man as David
Starr Jordan has the elements in him to enable
f
him to prepare such a code. It isn't a case of
a school master talking to pupils who have been
misbehaving; the appeals must reach men who
have consecrated their lives to a principle and a
cause, who have offered their lives over and over
for it, and whatever is offered, to meet their ap
proval must hold within it all the requirements
of justice, tempered as it may be with mercy. A
something to make an appeal to all that is high
and true and steadfast, and just in human na
ture. Hence we fear for the outcome of the plan.
It seems to us that President Wilson ought to
have the elements within himself to make an
appeal to the neutral nations to join with ours
by sending representatives to our country to
frame a code, which the world might accept,
which would bring to the president more fame
than he has ever yet -won, and in which the very
sense and wording of would be an inspiration to
the nations appealed to to send their representa
tives to join in the work and which would kindle
a sympathetic thrill in the fighting powers them
selves. No kind and philanthropic ideas are go
ing to do the work. What is needed now is a
broad and comprehensive statesmanship, governed
by an inflexible sense of justice, a statesmanship
high enough to take in effect the sword from
the hand of the fighter, and place in the hand,
to write the final decree, a pen entirely great.
Our Place
NEW and wonderful illumination has 'been pre
pared and attached to the statue of Liberty
enlightening the world on the little island in New
York bay. Far out at sea incoming mariners will
see and salute it; on departing ships it will shine
down in benediction.
Our countrymen should try to so establish their
lives that the statue will be their symbol; that
those who near our shores will hail us with wel
comes, those departing will carry but delicious
remembrances.
And all that is needed for that is for us as a
people to be absolutely fair, while insisting upon
our own rights to extend exact justice to all other
people and to extend absolute justice to all other
nations. Our country has a great area and is
blessed by more varied resources, not half of
which are, as yet vitilized, than any other land;
it is a place where the poor of the world assimi
late. That work up to date has created the Ameri
can race; it should continue and grow refined,
and the thoughts that govern should be that
excellence and honors attach only to minds and
hearts, and that in them rests the only claim that
mortals in a free land have to honestly prerer for
recognition among men.
Ours should be the very greatest of nations;
our influence should be paramount among the
nations, and it will be when wo become great
enough as individuals to make that influence
which comes of intelligence and courage and an
incorruptible sense of justice.
Located as we are, equipped as we are, power
ful as we are, the only thing required is the square
deal which inserts upon the right from others,
which never fails to extend the right to others.
jgfgjmaggg;jjggfjgBaaaammfmmHm)iiwitmnmmn:tmiii w muni i
On A Strictly Financial Basis IH
WE notice that the sugar company in two ad- JH
jacent states has advanced the price that it 'H
will pay for beets next year toy from seventy-five iH
cents to more than a dollar per ton. .l
That shows that the managers of the sugar .
company have not the slightest doubt of the good H
faith of the Democracy in their contract not to H
disturb the duty on imported sugar. And this is i1H
good to see. These is nothing like reducing politi- lH
cal principles to a strict financial basis. ill
True, to see a great political party for a con- IH
sideration of a few electoral votes sell out its most i iH
ancient and sacred principle and slap in the face H
its claim of a determination to insure to the peo- ' .H
pie industrial freedom, has a raw look and to see ,1
the people of three or four sovereign states sell H
their sacred votes for a little sugar and by the ?H
act insult their governor, their supreme and dis- H
trict courts, their own manhood and womanhood 'H
and at the same time viomte a principle which
they had clung to through all the mutations of ' H
sixty-nine years, would ibe altogether inexplicable H
except that we remembered that "ours is a pecu- ii;H
liar people," and that "ours is a business God." )M
In that light we can understand that to re- JM
duce our religion and our moral perception to a H
strictly financial basis and place them in a board IH
that will see that the books exactly 'balance every IH
night, is a plan that inflicts no wear and tear IH
upon the ordinary business man and leaves the H
horny hand of toil free at night to fold itself and H
sleep the sleep of the just even as does the tired H
horse or mule. H
l?H
Do Not Let Things Slow Down jl
JUST before he died the late J. J. Hill said the tgH
great trouble with the railroads of the country 1H
was their lack of terminal facilities. That is IH
vividly apparent now. Wo hear of much scarci- II
ties of cars all over the country, especially along H
the Atlantic coast, the reason being mat the cars H
crowded there have no places in which to unload. 91
The ships to ibear the products away are so If H
few, as well as the warehouses for storage, that IfH
the cars have to remain loaded week after "week IH
and the business of the whole country halts. 4H
A like condition will prevail with tho stoppage H
of tho -war, all over the country unless extraor- H
dlnary exertions shall 'be made to prevent tho IH
congestion that will naturally follow. 9H
Some things at least should be anticipated. IH
A great deal of material will need sending away; iH
a great deal of material in foreign countries will jH
be waiting to be brought and which our country II
will need in its work. The ships for this work fH
should be ready; tho ships and their crews; be- i H
'hind these the ship yards should be in perfect re- &H
pair to put through all work desired of them; H
behind them the smelters and rolling mills and $?H
structural iron works, and behind them iron and 1 H
coal mines. H
The government assumes tho ownership of the IH
natural resources of the country. Are there no ir- IH
ri0 Ion or power enterprises to be vitalized, H
to make work for needy men? ajH
Are there no new railroads needed to prevent IH
fl
J
