' . ' ? .
I WEATHER. || ^ 10 'From Preu to Home
Fair tontcht and tomorrow; little M U a. A A .^L Ay A a. a 1 li Wd ?????????
in shift- M P/IV .1 rr _??
M lii V^flV 9|7 Vl 17 I I I V A Bf W |yj\ Wtthm the Hour"
Temperature for hours ( 9 IM X flH v' 1
ending p.m.: p.m. J I m 9 9 9 9 9 9 B 1 9 9 a J
today; lowest. 3.1. at 5 a.m. today. M ~ . 9^ 9 IB - 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9
--" - f y I J . r twtis Met Ct real at to*. Moath of OefoVer.
*-, e lilt, Dally Arrragt. fWtl I SaaAay, B9.0T1.
, No. 29,520. WASHINGTON, D. C., SATURDAY, DECEMBER 2, 1916?EIGHTEEN PAGES. ONE CENT.
POLICE IN SEARCH S
f FOR WILL S. HAYES
j
i Accused of Attempting to Hold E
" Up Merchant in Local
Hotel Room.
It
f
5 CLUE FOUND IN SUIT CASE T
1>
k
- Will S. Hayes is wanted by the po- J
lice to answer for drawing a loaded Pa
revolver on A. Lisner. proprietor of
the Palais Royal, in a room at the to
Raleigh Hotel yesterday afternoon.
; Detective Burlingame, who invest!- th
gated the case, swore out a warrant *-*1
charging Hayes with assault with a tei
dangerous weapon. Mr. Lisner and 1,0
a*veral persons employed at the hotel. ^
- - - s.-. Iwl
. xne ponce stated, nave positively iueiiw
tifled a likeness of Hayes as being the
SWoccupant of the room in which Mr. Lis- mj
JD,ner figured in the exciting episode. In e>
lookout sent out from police head- erT
in tK,
tu'Quarters last night Hayes was given
fhe alias of "J. S. Stacy." the name
?? th?
tb egistered at the hotel.
The name Hayes was contained in a
T aundrv mark on a shirt found in the >
? *uit case left by the occupant of the go
room. Franking envelopes bearing ,
Representative Crosser's signature also p
were among his effects. It was suggested
during the investigation of the ofl
afTair yesterday afternoon that the nn
pistol drawn on Mr. Lisner was not
loaded, and that it probably was used fo
merely to frighten him; but a weapon ofl
picked up in the hallway through which te:
the hotel guest passed on his way out nu
was found to contain six cartridges. to
n' Police Obtain a Clue.
m i
^ Detectives took the suit case and 1
? contents to headquarters early yester- co
. May afternoon, and the clothing and inj
stationery furnished them a clue which vi<
suggested that Haves was the man .
' wanted. Likenesses obtained of him
before midnight were identified at the
hotel. and this morning Mr. Lisner pr<
dentified one of them as a photograph sp
rr of his alleged assailant. Following
the identification. Detective Burlingame V1S
' procured the warrant. an
J Police of other cities were asked to
. assist in a search that was begun by
< Inspector Grant, and copies of the
photograph will he sent broadcast un- co
less Haves is quickly captured. The na
police message asking for his arrest ar
reads: fo
"Wanted in this city, for a serious j na
assiult committed December I. IMC, {
Will S. Haves alias J. S. Stacy, white, j
thirty-eight to forty years: '? feet 10 ; lic
inches, l."?o to 1-V? pounds, slender build, j to
dark brown hair, bald on top. or may jsg
wear a wig. pale complexion, delicate j^..
appearance, brown eyes, smooth face.
or may have small mustache; good ar
teeth; may wear tortoise shell goggles a
or nose glasses. Dressed in gray suit.
reddish necktie. Usually dresses very nd
neat, in cheap, rp-to-date clothes. Is ! re.
loose iointed and walks with a long
stride."
Appointment Made by Phone. 1
Mr. Lisncr first heard from the ?*
stranger about 11 o'clock yesterday pa
morning, when he received a telephone t,c
message, ostensibly from the Hotel aw
Rennert. Baltimore, asking a meeting ma
at the Raleigh Hotel at 1:30, but the
Washington merchant had another en-| ie<
gagement. and the man at the other j pa
end of the telephone, who represented as
himself to be a representative of Rob- . ,
ert Guggenheim of New York, and who :
said that a number of Washington r".
business men would be at the confer- ~v
ence, agreed to change the meeting
time to about 1 o'clock. ? r"
The business in which Mr. Guggen- '
neim was interested and wnicn. it was
stated. would be discussed, included a
plan for the consolidation of rnanv of< .
the hanks of this city. It was shortly f *
aft*r 1 o'clock when Mr. Eisner reach- '
ed the hotel and was shown to the
room of "Mr. J. S. Stacy of New York." = .
Stacy, as the occupant of the room th*
Introduced himself, represented himself
to be in the employ of the New York j ^
financier. The other business men men- j
tioned over the telephone did not ma- a
terialize. but he was willing to unfold
the financial plan of his employer to aL
Mr. Eisner. The latter made it known
that he was not interested in the proposed
consolidation and also that he
had an engagement and could remain
*?o longer lol
Extends Invitation to Dine. ' '
w
"Stacy" thereupon invited him to dine th
with him, but Mr. Eisner declined, say- th
Ing he had a concert engagement. ac
"You'll go to no concert tonight," said ' HS
the supposed New Yorker, draw ing his J p,
revolver. j a.
Mr. I.isner grabbed the man from be- ; (?<
hind, holding both of his arms, and ! g,
made an outcry. Mr. Eisner's hands are m
large arid strong, from playing the hi
piano, but h*- was forced in a chair. o;
where he struggled with the larger j
man. He thinks his assailant put \V
the revolver In his pocket, he ex- tr
plained to the police, for he saw noth- th
tng more of it. Being unsuccess- to
ful in his effort to place Ins hand ov?-r to
Mr. Eisner's mouth to prevent an out- j
cry, the armeu man nastily ieii ine in,
room, not stopping to get his hat or ar
overcoat. to
On hie way through the hall he called ar
to a maid that there was a sick man a,
in room 204 and suggested that he Ht
needed a physician. Mr. Usner locked pj
the door as soon as his assailant had ,n
departed, however, and did not open it
until he was satisfied that the man had j,j
g one. cc
Hatless When He Descends Stairway ' JV,
What became of the hatless man the ; *'*
p*dice were unable to learn. He was '
I
???*n deseeriding the stairs ami walking ^
in the direction of the door, but if he
w;?s bar-headed when he reached the |
street he attracted no particular attention.
so far as the police were able
to learn, and they think it possible
that he had a cap or a hat in his te
pocket.
Hotel employes were sent in every er
direction to get some trace of the fieeing
man, and later the police took up
the search. Jietectives were sent to
Union station and steamboat wharves; h?
outgoing electric cats were carefully cc
scanned and automobile roads were
watched, but no trac! of him was found. .
The finding of a p ncil sketch of the
Washington-Baltimore boulevard in
his suit case suggested the possibility "I
of his having come to this city iri an a?
automobile. c<
Inspector Grant, however, is satisfied fr
that he came here by rail The man te
for whom search was instigated, the 1,1
police stated, resides in Cleveland,
, Uhlo, where his parents also reside. *"?<
Hopei to Settle Differences.
In an effort to settle the differences I,(
bevween the Nashville, Chattanooga and |
St. lxmis railroad and Its employes.
W. W. Hanger, member of the federal
board of mediation and conciliation, left
here last night for Nashville, Tenn.
Mediation was sought by the railroad. <-'1
and the representatives of the four rail- 01
road brotherhoods involved accepted the en
offers of the federal board. hs\
MA CLAUS SURE
10 VISIT SOLDIERS
\
mployes in Government Departments
Plan to Boost
Star's Christmas Fund.
HEATERS ALSO TO ASSIST
n several of the big government dertments
and other workhouses of the
vernment committees are organizing
solicit funds for the Christmas conibution
which The Star is to send to
e 1,500 members of the National
lard of the District of Columbia scatred
in four camps along the Mexican
rder.
In the government printing office,
lere there are 4,"00 employes, the
airmen of the thirteen chapels are
iking arrangements to receive whater
contributions these thousands of
inloves care to give toward making
e District boys on the border realize
at the home folks are thinking of
em, the first Christmas day that many
them have spent away from home.
\mong the boys on the border are
ores of enlisted men previously emoyed
at the big government print
op. and more than a dozen of the
icers are government printing office
?n. Capt. Edward M. Nevils, Quarteraster
Corps. N. G. D. C., who is a
reman at the government printing
Ice. is taking a strong personal inrest
in having the printing office
ike one of the largest contributions
the general fund.
Commerce Club May Aid.
rhe Department of Commerce Club
mmittee on Christmas fund, consistg
of Secretary Redfield, Joseph Daes,
federal trade commissioner;
orge Johannes, disbursing clerk of
e department, and George E. Oler,
esident of the club, is holding a
ecial meeting this afternoon to de
ic i^icliis iui ncipiii^ owe" lire lumi,
d their action is promised approval
the board of directors of the club.
"While the regulations prohibit the
llection of funds for any purpose at
tvy yards and shore stations, officials
e trying to obtain special permission
r the collection of a Washington
ivy yard contribution to the general
iristmas fund. A number of the em>yes
of the yard who were in the Na nal
Guard, but who have been recalled
their civil occupations by special orders
lued by the Secretary of War, headed
Corp. L. S. Mohler of Battery B.
eld Artillery, now at Douglas. Ariz.,
e planning to form themselves into
committee to receive navy yard conbutions
outside the yard, in the event
way can be found to get around the
gul&tions.
Await Postmaster Chance.
rhe clerks and carriers' associations
the Washington city post office are
rticularly interested in this collec?n
for the District troops, and are
raiting the return Monday of Postister
Merritt O. Chance to obtain his
icial permission before making eolations.
Capt. George I* Tait, Comny
D. 3d Infantry, is president of the
sociation of clerks, but is now with
s company at Kan Antonio. There
e a number of other employes from
e post office at Camp Wilson and the
her camps on the border, and tReir
sociates at the city post office want
do all they can to make their Christis
happy by remembrances from their
How-workmen.
The entertainment committee and the
ar<l 01 governorH ui me nume ? iuu
the Interior Department will hold a
ecial meeting at 4 o'clock this after>on
to discuss plans for giving a spell
entertainment to raise funds for
e Christmas gifts for the guardsmen.
The Women's Relief Association,
G. T>. <*.. which yesterday made the
rge contribution of $1.70, is preparing
make active collections for this fund
iring the early part of next week.
Theaters Are to Help.
Committees will be stationed in the
bbies of several theaters, through thf
emission of the managers, and slide.*
ill be thrown on the screens calling
e attention of the theater patrons tc
e collection for District soldiers and
Ivieing them to make contribution*
i they leave the theater. Roland S
obhins, manager of Keith's Theater
Julian Brylawski. proprietor of thf
>srnos Theater, and Manager Fred S
srger of Poll's Theater, through perission
given directly by S. Z. Poli,
tve promised the fullest possible co>eration.
Mrs. Thacker V. Walker, wife of Maj
alker, ordnance officer of the Disict
National Guard and treasurer o1
e Women's Relief Association., sale
day that that organization intend*
devote its most earnest efforts ah
ixt week toward swelling the Christas
fund, arid that she believes therf
e thousands of persons in Washing
n who would be glad to give smal
nounts, if only nickels and dimes
id that she proposes to establisl
ations during next week at centra
aces, where those who wish maj
ake these small contributions.
While the 1.700 Hoy Scouts in th?
istrict are forbidden to make monej
Elections or solicit funds for any pur
>se. they will assist the women ol
i? relief association in every \va j
>ssible under their manual.
PINCOURT IS BOMBED:
TEUTON RAIDS HALTED
PARIS, jDecember 2, 2:10 p.m.-J^-Thi
xt of the official statement follows:
"Last night passed quietly along thi
itire front. During the night of De
rmber 1-2 one of our aviators threw
>wn nine bombs of 120 milimeter cali
;r upon the railroad station at Spin
>urt and three others of the same siz<
>on barracks of the enemy at Billy
ir-Mangiennes."
LONDON, December 2, 12:25 p.m.?
>uring the night hostile artillery w:i.
tive north of Ypres and near Oueude>urt."
says the official report todaj
om the Franco-Belgian front "Yes
rday evening after a heavy trend
ortar bombardment the enemy at
mpted two diminutive raids in th?
>uehez area. They were beaten off."
BBKLIN. December 2, by wireless t<
iyville.? Only artillery engagement!
1 the Franco-Belgian fiont are re
>rted in today's army headquarteri
atement on operations in this theatei
J war.
Old Ball Player Dead.
DANVILLK. 111.. December 2.?Samue
reenwalt. famoua as a catcher anc
ittydder of the Philadelphia Ameriliim
in the late sines, died here lasi
enlng, aged sevens-lour.
, -
CHIHUAHUA'S FALL
: NO PERIL TO U. S.
j
Border Not Further Menaced
as Result, According to War
Department Officials.
GEN. BELL MAKES REPORT
Two overnight dispatches from Brig.
Gen. Bell at El Paso, containing the first
information to reach the War t^epartment
! from army border official/ concerning
i | Villa's victorious attacks on Chihuahua
i City, were received today. After a carei
ful study of the reports it was stated
authoritatively that the information contained
nothing that could be construed as
an increased menace to the American bor;
der or that threatened the safety of
I Juarez.
The reports were based entirely upon
information obtained by Gen. Bell from
| refugees reaching r:i F?aso from Chi;
huahua City. Both agreed that the
i lighting in the city had been desperate,
! with the strategic points having been
I captured by the Villa forces and rej
taken by the de facto troops several
! times from the beginning of the battle
Thursday morning until Monday.
Villistas Greatly Outnumbered.
j Gen. Trevino, the Carranza command!
er at Chihuahua City, was said to have
i had about 6.000 soldiers, while the
! strength of the Villa forces was estiI
mated at from 2,500 to 3,000 men.
, j. Gen. Trevino was reported to have
i retreated south with a remnant of his
| command, hut officials said it was their
opinion that he remained within short
distance of Chihuahua City, waiting reinforcement
under Gen. Murguia, with
! which lie would return and attempt to
j retake the city.
I The refugees said Villa began the attack
Thursday morning and withdrew
' that night only to resume it again Friday,
s The battle continued desperately throughlout
the day and culminated by Villa's
| forces penetrating into the center of the
I city, where street fighting was general.
They withdrew that night, taking
Trevino's artillery, which they had
captured at Santa Rosa Hill. Saturday
they re-entered the city and fighting
i continued until Monday,
j One of the refugees said the attack
: was opened from three directions, the
first from the waterworks, the second
from Coronel hill and the third from
the roundhouse, north of the city
Fight at Penitentiary Desperate.
| The most desperate fighting was said
' to have been around the penitentiary.
which was taken and retaken by the
; bandits several times before they sucj
ceeded in getting complete possession.
! None of the refugees interviewed by
Gen. Bell was able to identify Villa
among the bandits.
The. Mexican embassy here still wan
without information today concerning:
the final outcome of the Chihuahua engagement.
Ambassador Designate Arredondo.
however, admitted that there appeared
; little doubt that the Carranza forces
! had been driven from the city, which
j had fallen into bandits' hands.
No Change in Policy Now.
| Official opinion is that there will be
i no material change in the Mexican
1 policy for the present, and that the
' next steps will be guided by developments,
including Gen. Carranza's action
j on the protocol signed at Atlantic City.
What effect the ascendancy of Villa
! will have on the attitude of the United
States depends upon what progress
j Villa makes within the next few weeks
and what steps the Carranza forces
take to restore their control of the
| northern country.
Villa Victory Complicates Situation.
Villa's sudden victory, coining at a
time when the protocol arranged by the
, 1 Mexican-American commission for the
' i withdrawal of the American expediI
tion and policing of both sides of the
border is before the two governments
for action, has suddenly complicated a
; troublesome situation, which seemed on
i the way to settlement,
r ! Border consular reports, based on in
formation from refugees out of Chihuahua
City, which reached the State De5
j partnient today, .said all Americans had
; 1 left, that place before it was taken by
^ 1 the bandits, "ne refugee was reported
| as having said that Villa, upon his en'
trance into the city, immediately ori\
dered that there should be no looting.
Another was quoted as saying all
foreigners had lied before the approach
of the bandits, and that no non-com!
batants, with th?- possible exception of
! two Chinese, had been killed.
; Bandits May Be Going West.
Jl"AillY/j. Mexico, December 2.?Villa
bandits were reported to be loading two
trains with loottfrom the stores arid residences
of Chihuahua City arid preparing
to follow these trains west on the Mexico
; Northwestern railroad, according to a
message received at military headquari
ters last night from Gen. Ozuna's scouts
^ j at Sauz. The scouts obtained their ini
formation from refugees reaching Cuilty
| and Sauz from Chihuahua City. This
j news was taken at headquarters to indi>
' cate the intention of Villa to evacuate
j the city after looting it as he did at
. ; Parral, Santa Rosilia and Jimenez.
f, Kb i'ASO. Tex.. December 2.?"This
: j fight against Villa has just started,"
j Andres Garcia, inspector general of Carj
ranza consulates, declares. "We will
have enough forces opposing Villa within
nitr hi ?-i usn mi; oaiinii and
his following. People on the border need
r r.t fe;.r ?n from the Villa bandits.
| We will have 1.500 men and a large number
of Held pieces in Juarez at ono? and
I we will have 4.500 men between f'hihua?
I hua City and Juarez to prevent any move;
merit Villa may attempt."
Will Try to Retake Chihuahua City.
J17ARKZ. Mexico, December 2.?A
I general attack on Chihuahua City by
" j Carranza forces, in an effort to retake
s j the city, was expected to begin today,
5 ! if not already under way, according to
- ; a reliable source of information here.
; | TO SELL MISSOURI PACIFIC.
'! Foreclosure on Bankers' Trust Com
pany Suit Ordered by Court.
;) NEW YOKK. December 2.?A (lecre.
in foreclosure and sale in the Bankers'
>J Trust Company's suit as holder of the
?I first collateral trust mortgage of the
" i Missouri Pacific Railway Company, sell
j curing an issue of $9,^636,000 of MIsi
souri Pacific bonds on which $425,029
! interest is in default, has been signed
I here in federal court. The collateral
. J security is to be sold on a date to be
1 fixed, and the decree also provides that
I unless the price offered amounts to
. $6,750,000 the sale is to be adjourned
t until some future date to be fixed by
the court.
i
I
{SITE IS SUGGESTED v
Rvnp VAM QPHAIflK
ui uit. irui uuiiniuii
Proposes Location Near His
Home for New Municipal V
Lodging House. u
U
BOARD CHOICE PROTESTED
~~ to:
Answering the protests of scores of j Q]
property owners anrl others against the i ( i
! proposed location of the new municipal i ^
lodging house at 322-24 C street north- j
west, on the ground that it would seri- j 11
I ously injure that neighborhood. Rev. I
John Van Schaick, jr., president of the ' tj
board of education, today invited the b
! District Commissioners to locate the;^
; institution on a vacant lot near his ,
I residence in Massachusetts avenue, be- i <*]
i tween 14th and lath streets northwest. 11
After vivid pictures had been drawn
by Rev. Harry D. Mitvhe.ll. pastor of ^
the Metropolitan Memorial Methodist : tj
Church: John B. Larn?r. William McK.
I Clayton and otheis, as to the harm
that will be done if the lodging house s Q
lis built in C street. Dr. Van Schaick jr
t surprised the protestants at a hear ng 1 _(
before the Commissioners this morn ng j y
! by indorsing the proposed location, p.
then offering on?* in his own neighbor- i ^
hood as a substitute. jf
Views of Dr. Van Schaick.
j I>r. Van Schaick said It is better to ,
I locate such institutions near churches {
i than police stations, that they should w
j be brought from dark streets and out - ' 11
of-the-way places into the light, where *
j the conditions of the unfortunate per- f'
j sons temporarily sheltered may be ' ^
! known. This, he declared, to be the j]
! only policy under which th re v.iil S
! cease to be ."Omeiess men. 4
Both Dr. Van Schab k and A. H. Ty-j =
son, superintendent of the existing m
nicipal lodging house. on 1-th street i
i adjoining No. 1 police station, expressed
the opinion that the protest- !
1 ants were unduly alarmed as to conditions
that v ould follow the location of ;
the new building on C street. It was !
: stated that the institution would n<?t !
house dependents of the worst class, |
j but that those sheltered would be re- j
j quired to work for their lodging, and
| that the treatment accorded them
j would l e constructive and helpful
; along the most practical lines. In- !
> stances were cited by Mr. Tyson of
! many men given help by the municipal
j lodging house w ho are "making good."
Selection Called a "Blunder."
Preceding these speakers, the Com- 1
; missioners bad heard their selection of |
j the C street site condemned as a serious :
(blunder. It was declared that one of the
| principal sufferers fronr the location of .
! the lodging house at this place would
: be the Young Women's Christian Home,
'on the opposite side of the street. John
I B. Darner, depicting the dangers that
i would confront young women returning
i home from work at n'ght, declared that
i the institution, if built, will be ruinous !
i to the home.
i Prediction was made by the Rev.
: Harry I>. Mitchell that retention of the
i C street location for the lodging- house
i will blight the future of that section,
j He called attention to the fact that the
(location is but two doors from the par-'
\sonage of the Metropolitan Memorial
l Methodist Episcopal Church. which
probably will be abandoned, he said,
unless the Commissioners recede from
, their position. ,
Others Enter Protest.
Mrs. H. T.?. McIIvane, who gave her
age as eighty-seven, was a participant j
! in the proceedings and entered a vigor- i
j ous protest against retention of the '
! site, as did several others, including {
| Mrs. Murray Leadguard, president of
the board of trustees of the Young
Women's Christian Home.
The Commissioners took the protests
under advisement. Under ah appropriation
in the current District act they
have allowed $10,000 for the purchase
of the Jgoposed site and $30,000 for a
buildinJT
VAR DEPARTMENT ASKS
$10,000 FOR FERRY
ncludes in Its Estimates Funds for
Boat to Eun to Potomac Park
Playgrounds.
Estimates of the.War Department for
le next fiscaf y &f ihcllifl# an item of
10.000 for Installing and maintaining a
trry across the Washington channel of
le Potomac river in order to provide
le people of this city with an easier and
uicker method than exists at present of
iaching the great public playground and
^creation park now in process of csiblishment
on. the newly reclaimed area
f East l'oComae Park. Gen. Black, chief
f engineers of the army; Col. Harts, the
igineer officer in charge of public buildups
and grounds, and the District Comlissioners
are warm advocates of the esiblishment
of the proposed ferry.
Jn case of favorable action by Congress
is planned by Col. Harts to establish
le ferry rrom tne wnari on \\ ater street
ft ween AT and N streets southwest, now
nder lease by the Washington and Norfolk
team boat Company, to a pile wharf to
e constructed on the park side of the
liannel, directly opposite. He says that
le funds asked for will cover also the
xpenses of a suitable ferry boat and Its
peraiion. In view of the fact that the
."as hi rig ton end of the ferry will be near
le lines of the Capital Traction and the
Washington Railway and Klectric cornanies
it was thought that either or both
f those companies might be sufficiently
1 teres ted to install and maintain the proosed
ferry in connection with their lines.
When approached on the subject, liowver.
they informed the authorities that
ley were not prepared to do anything
i that direction at this time.
Campaign Expense Statements.
Final ?ampaign expense statements
ere tiled today with the Senate, as
illows: Senator-elect P. C. Knox,
ennsylvania, $2,411, with no contrlbuoiiH.
Senator-gleei Frank B. Kellogg,
linriesota, 59,24 4, with no contribuions.
Senator-elect Josiah Wnleott,
tela ware. $2,414. with no contributions,
enator-elect A. A. Jones. New Mexico,
s.. l 7 : contributions. $275.
1 UJUVJKKUW
"BUILDING THE RAT OUT OF EXISTENCE"?Scientific
rat hunters
for Uncle Sam rrotect the country
from bubonic plague.
WHO IS RASPUTIN 1" by LUCIAN
SWIFT KIRTLAND?-The truth about
Rasputin, tho mysterious monk, who
is said to be the power behind the
Russian thrcne.
'TRADE SCHOOLS FOR THE GERMAN
WOUNDED"?Wrecks 0f the
battlefields arc being taught trades
and positions are s?cured for them. (
RIFLES AND PEARLS." an entertaininr
storv. by WILLIAM HAMILTON
CS30RNE.
"SHE GUARDS RIGHTS OF CHILDREN '
WHO LABOR"?Miss Helen L.
Sumner tells of the new child labor
law in effect next Soptember.
THE BRAVEST MAN I MET IN
FIVE ARMIES." the stary of an
un-sue' hero, by WILLIAM GUNN
SHEPHERD.
STATISTICIAN GIVES FIGURE8 CONCERNING
CUR WHEAT CROP
AND COST OF BRFAD," a timely
interview, by JAMES B. MORROW.
TORCHY TAKES A RUNNING JUMP."
by 8EWELL FORD?Further adventures
of the hunters of buried
pirate gold.
EFFICIENCY AND ECONOMY IN
CLEANING THE CITY S STREETS"
?What it means in labor and money
to keep Washington clean.
WHO STOLE MY CAR?" by ERNEST
A. STEPHENS.
-AFGHANISTAN AND WARLIKE
TRIBES OF NORTHWEST INDIA."
an informative article, by CHARLES
M. PEPPER.
-CUTTING DOWN THE COST OF
COAL."
-DECEMBER BRINGS OUT BRIL- ,
LIANT EVENING GOWNS." by !
ANNE RITTENHOU8Z.
-TOO MANY MEN STELL BELIEVE IN
PERPETUAL MOTION." by BRUCE
BARTON.
-NEW EMERGENCY HOSPITALS FOR
ARMY AND NAVY."
-ADVANCE OF HOMESTEADERS
ALARMS THE YUKON INDIANS."
by FRANK G. CARPENTER.
-RESULTS ESTABLISH THE VALUE
OF THEORIES." and "HUMP OR
BUMP." by HERBERT KAUFMAN.
IN THE
SUNDAY STAR *
7~~Tr
f : v V.
9oy?s '*" /
^ ilg /
ACnilITU MAVnillT
Moguim ivimi gun
AS CABINET HEM
Rumors of Changes in Coalitioi
' Government Printed in
London Papers.
I DISSATISFACTION IS VOICE!
j By the Associated I'res*.
LONDON, December 2. ? Cabine
changes involving; the resignation o
Pre.mier Asquith are predicted by th
Manchester Guardian in an article ii
today's issue on the current rumors re
speeting political changes. The pa;e
' says:
| "Rumors, perhaps one ought to sa;
j more than rumors, are going aroum
j in the lobby of imminent changes, th
j current rumor being that Bonar Lav
i may replace Premier Asquith for th>
time being, but that a linal settleme.n
j would be Lloyd George as prime inin
j ister."
! The Guardian concludes that th
, coalition government has not the col
lective prestige to resist the attack
being made upon it. and that the hoirs
i of commons has reached the mood it
1 which it is re-ady to create anothe
| ministry.
Possible War Council.
i ne express says tnat a poittioa
j crisis has suddenly arisen and that th
coalition government is likely to g<"
j According to this paper a new wa
j council, probably consisting of Premie
'Asquith, Lloyd George, Bonar Law, Ar
! thur Balfour and Sir Kdward Cursor,
will be appointed.
Some of the other morning news
| papers tefle.-t popular dis-atisf i< ti? 1
I with the. government by r<it?rati j
j criticisms which have been made con
! tinuallv of late.
1 The Times calls for a small harmoni
j ous an 1 resolute body of ministers, am
sees no hone of improvement as lonj
1 as. Mr. Asquith Is premier. It si's
wishes the removal from the esibi::e
J of Viscount Grey, th" Marquis o
Crevre, the Marquis of 1-ansdowne an
J Mr. Balfour.
j Virtually all questions connected witl
( h? conduct of the war will come unde
: review in parliament during the com
ling weeK. Tuesday Promie.r AsquitS
i will introduce a new vote of credit, am
j he is expected then to deal with sev
jeral vital questions awaiting solutior
j His statement probably will be fol
lowed by a discussion, in which A. J
i Balfour, first lord of the admiralty, am
! others w ill participate.
| The name of the controller will b
' iinnoi'rceil, while the subject of th
i country's man power and the eontro
i of the air services will be debated Mr
' Balfour's failure to adopt suggestion;
I marie hv a committee in regard to th<
air service has come in for the sharp
' est criticism.
I iv-riT Asouith had a conference
: with the king this morning, but wheth
j er it hau to do witn contemplate*
; changes in the administration <?? witl
(the program which the house of corn
; mons will face next week is proble
m&tical.
J. D. Archbold Fights for Life.
TARRYTOWX. X. Y.. December 2/The
condition of John i>. Archbold
president of the Standard Oil Company
I of New Jersey, was unchanged fron
I last night, when he was reported as
I much improved, it was said at hi
, home here today, where lie has beer
; dangerously ill for several days fol
i lowing an operation for appendicitis
His mind is clear, and his strong tie
termination to recover is aiding in tht
fight to bring him back to health, i
was -said.
To Announce Committees Tonight.
Announcement of committees whicl
will direct Its work during the year wil
be made tonight at a meeting of tht
Federation of Citizens' Associations, Ir
the boardroom'of the District building
The committee appointments will b?
made by Charles S. Shreve, newly elected
piesident. '
GREEK KING GIVES
UP GUNSTO ALUES
Yields Only After Day of Fighti
ing and Terror in
Athens Streets.
200 CASUALTIES REPORTED
4 id t nrl Prp??
LONDON. December 2. 11:36 a.m.?
After a day of terror in Athens, in
which Venizelists fought royalists and
Greek troops fired upon entente forces
which had been landed, according to
Vice Admiral Du Fournet, to maintain
order, a truce was arranged. King
Constantine finally agreed to surrender
the mountain guns demanded by the
allies, and the latter are withdrawing
their troops, with the exception of a
small guard
Disturbances began as soon as the
allied troops were landed. Greek
troops fired on the entente force which
occupied the Zappeion, while reservists
and Venizelists exchanged shots in the
streets. A pitched battle between the
opposing Greek forces occurred in
Stadium street.
Neutral Envoys Intervene.
The Dutch and Spanish ministers
finally intervened and induced the king j
to surrender the guns, on condition j
that the entente withdraw the troops, |
except 300; left in the Zappeion. According
to, information from a source
close to the Greek government. Admiral
- Du Fournet telephoned to
Premier Lambros suggesting an
armistice, which was effected after a
conference of the premier with the king.
I While the conference was in progress,
and even after the French minister
had been summoned to take part in it,
guns continued to boom. Special dispatches
from Athens say the French
bombarded the hill behind the palace.
The casualties in the Greek capital ;
are said to number 200, according to a
dispatch from Athens to the Central j
Mpws Acencv.
J An Amsterdam dispatch to the Times
says that it is reported in certain
~ I circles that the central powers intend
" to offer assistance to the King of
I Greece.
Athens Reports Surrender.
| ATHENS, via London, December 2.? j
i The King of Greece has agreed to give !
I ' up the artillery demanded by Admiral
I du Fournet. The allied troops are :
" j withdrawing from Piraeus.
An entente diplomat informed the As- j
, sociated Press correspondent that Ad
- i miral du Fournet ordered the with- j
! drawal of his troops after King Con- <
stafttine agreed to surrender six bat- j
teries of mounted artillery to the allies. ,
The allied forces are already leaving I
the Zappeion. only ,'100 remaining as a j
guard.
The French legation, which was
guarded by French marines, was fired |
^ upbn during the crisis. The Greek
J military authorities assert that the firing
was done by rowdies. Secretary
Bridgonian of the British legation was
arrested in the streets by a Greek pa- '
trol and taken to a police station, !
t ; where he was instantly released.
r Resisted by Greek Troops.
n | Admiral du Fournet landed some 400 !
_ I marines at an early hour yesterday and !
r ' marched toward Athens, seizing Philop
appos hill, overlooking the city. The j
y j Greek guards on all roads leading to the
j .capital refused to permit a second ma-1
f, ; riue detachment to advance further. All |
v | trains between Athens and Piraeus were
p j stopped and no carriages were permitted
l I to enter the city.
In Athens there was intense excitement j
! Women, carrying loads of provision .
p J hastily bought in anticipation of a siege.
j thronged the streets, above which bullets I
s , were dying. Old men with hunting guns
e ! on their backs mounted guard at the i
| street corners, so as to release the soldiers
for the fighting outside. Four huni
dred British marines reinforced the
i French force in the Zappeion, the famous !
| industrial exhibition building which lies |
I at the south side of tne gardens of the
, j royal palace. From the surrounding hills
: Greeks poured bullets into the Zappdon. j
e | The allit d force appeared to be acting
>. j under a preconceived military plan whicn '
r j was intended to spare the city as much !
j as possible,
r !
Conference at Royal Palace.
' | ROYAL PALACE, Athens, December j
| 1, via London, December 2.?Vice 'Ad- j
^ j miral du Fournet telephoned to Pre- j
ir , mier Lainbros at 2 p.m., suggesting an i
| armistice. Before word could reach all ;
_ ( the Greek detachments posted on the !
rl i hills fighting broke out again. A
z i French effort to storm the wireless
0 | station on Observatory hill, southwest j
f j of the city, was repulsed at the point
1 j of the bayonet. An armistice finally
^ [ was effected.
r | The premier came to the palace at
- ; 3:30 p.m. to seek final instructions
^ j from the king before conferring with
_ !- Vice Admiral du Fournet. While the
i-! premier was in the palace fighting
- i began again. The French force in the I
' Zappeion, consisting of 2,000 marines |
1 j under personal charge of the vice ad- !
1 miral, fired on two passing Greek of- !
r Lficers. The Greeks called their artil- !
e . lery into use. The king, who was :
1 : watching the fight from the garden.:
; ; immediately ordered that the firing
s cease. The Greek colonels DimitricoB
i poulo.s and Pelayanni were killed.
* | At "> o'clock the fleet bepan firing: on
. the hills just back of the palace.
_ | The crown prince and the other
\ i princes are with their regiments,
i I
. I Marines Shot From Palace.
Barricading themselves in the^offices !
of the Venizelos newspaper Hestia, a
detachment of Venizelos troops kept up '
a fusillade of shots this evening against
- the government forces. Two marines
were killed from the windows of the pal- '
7 ace and a servant in the palace was shot
1 by the police. .
s j Following an exchange of shots be- j
s j tween soldiers in the annex of the Brit- i
i | ish legation and a force of Greeks in
! the square in front of the legation 1
building. King Oonstantine sent a regi- .
" nient of soldiers to guard the British
\ minister's hous?.
In several parts of the city- Greeks
were fired upon from houses. All the
shutters on the buildings were ordered
closed. Chief of Police Zymbrakakis,
it.Venizelos adherent, has been removed
i and the police force has been cleared
1 of all sympathizers with the Venizelos
movement.
s At Phaleron three entente allied
i torpedoboat destroyers were lying close
in", shore this afternoon. In ' Piraeus
i there were no disturbancea^ihost of the
I Venizelos followers being provided wjth
armbands of the French comr*L
mm
RUSS AND GERMANS
INAUGURATE GREAT!
FLANKMOVEMENTS
Slavs Seek to Save Rumanian
Armies and Foe Strives
for Bucharest.
CZAR'S MEN TAKE PART ^
OF TCHERNAVODA BRIDGE!
Petrograd Claims to Have Forced
Enemy Back South of Threatened
Capital.
Indications point to the probability
that two flanking operations on a largo i
scale are in progress on the Rumanian
front. The one apparently is intended*
by the Russians to save Kin* Ferdl-/
nand's armies and possibly his capital
and the other by the Teutonic allies
to force the evacuation of Bucharest
and cut off the troops defending itHaving
assembled what seems to !>e a
huge force along the range of the lower
Carpathians, the Russians are pressing
a great offensive on a front of approximately
L'fiO miles, running alone
the western frontier of the Rumanian
province of Moldavia and extending
northwest along the Bukowina border.
Already they are declared to have
scored such successes as to lead to
expectations that the supply lines Of
Gen. von Falkenhayn's armies invading
Rumania from the north may
shortly he seriously menaced.
The threat to the Rumanians comeo
from Field Marshal von Maekensen on
the southeast. Controlling virtually
the entire course of the Danube as far
as Tchernavoda as they do, the Teutonic
allies, it has been pointed oul^
seemed likely to attempt throwing
forces across it at points further ana
further east, to outflank eacl\ lino
taken up by the Rumanians as thjT rO-^
Ill r UIIU^I III*" [M COOUI C 111 I WII nmri#
hayn's forces from the north and west
and such of von Mackensen's troops as
were already on the north bank of th**
river.
South of Bucharest the Teutonic
forces have been driven hack, the Russian
statement says, and the villages of Tzo?
mana and Gostinari have been recaptured.
Germans Break Through
Rumanian Lines in
Region of Campulung
By the Associated !*r-ss.
BERLJN, December 2. by wireless ts
Sayville.?The Russian and Rumanian
force* are continuing to make
attacks along the Bukowina aM
Moldavian frontiers. Today's state* ,
ment from army headquarters says tfce .
attacks were without success, and" that
heavy losses were inflicted by the Teatonic
troops.
A great battle has developed in western
Rumania. The A astro-German
army advancing from the region of
Campulung lias defeated the Rumanians
in a pitched battle, breaking1
through their lines.
More than 6,000 Rumanians have
been captured in western Rumania, together
with forty-nine cannon. In the
advance toward Bucharest the Teutonic
torces have reached the Argechu river.
Czar's Big Movement
Gains in Momentum
Over a 200-Mile Line
P.y the Associated
PETROGRAD. December 2, \ ia London.
2:5} p.m.?The Russians have
gained possession of the western part
of Tchernuvoua bridge across tho
Danube, it was announced officially today.
'P',.. Piic.-ton .'rit-n i>ifn ! Im u-n.u).
ed district of the Carpathians, which
be^an tlnee days ago with tiie purpose
of diverting part of (Jen. von Falkenhayn's
troops from the Rumanian front
and preventing a further invasion of
Rumania on tiie Transylvania side, is
acquiring momentum as it proceeds.
The drive, reports received here say,
now has developed into opera lions on *k
large scale on a line ol" miles from
Koiosnezo, in the Carpathians, to the
River Iiovtian. on the Rumanian-Hungarian
frontier. 4
The important line of communication#
from Kiriibaba to Mararyai os-Sziget,
which possesses especial 'voWue on account
of the scarcity of railways ami
good roads in this region, now is under
control of the Russian guns on the
neighboring crests.
Rumanians Take Ridge.
In the Buzeu valley, southeast of
Kronstadt, Rumanian troops have occupied
a ridge of heights east and south
of the village of Krasna, says the Russian
statement on the operations in
Rumania and in I>ol?rudja. Southwest
of Bucharest attacks by the invader#
were driven back, the statement adds,
but the villages of Tzomana. sixteen
miles south of Bucharest, and Gosti^
nari were lost.
Taken by von Mackensen.
The Tchernavoda bridge, the only on9
across the Danube for a distance of 600
miles from the Black sea, was taken
control of by Field Marshal von Mack*
ensen after the defeat of the KussoRumanian
army in Dobrudja and the
capture of Constanza and Tchernavoda
late in October.
Over it passes the sole railway lino
directly connecting Bucharest with the
Black sea, and its capture by von
Mackensen cut communications between
Rumania and Russia by thin land
and water route. The main span of
the bridge itself is only about half a
mile long, but the approaches to tbo
west stretch for several miles over tbo
marshlands bordering the- Danube. At
Conservation
of Paper
Every citizen is called upon to se#
that not a pound of paper is wasted.
Demand from every clerk that any
unnecessary wrapping of package*
be dispensed with.
If you have no further use for to-~
day's newspaper save it for tha
school children's playground fund.
Call Main 6036 and aAk for tha
nearest public school. to ^pur homo' 1
and the old papers will bVoent tor.
