krMf!P?
stkat
NIGHT
EXTRA
Euetitng
V Sfot,. ,
s
I
-. -
EXTPA
AwW nk eS jQIe. a
VOL. HI NO. 69
PHILADELPHIA, SATURDAY, DECEMBER 2, 1916
CoMiianr, 1010, it tns Pcsuo l.zoat Cohm.it
PRICE ONE CHSNtf
UNDERWRITERS
BACK PROBE IN
RISK SITUATION
VARE ANSWERS
PENROSE BLOW
AIMED AT COX
PH-Srf I -1fgft&" "f??JggF
. ftfiW 4
rV iH SIIiW , f"-"i
G
v" o 41 1 irtri
a Jin fi-L 1 1111 I
c , :
DIXON AFTER
DEPILERS OF
CITY'S WATER
With Corps of Health
Inspectors He Tours
Manayunk J
DANGER LURKING
IN RIVER SUPPLY
QUICK NEWS
,'
tii .:
MA
,--A
If.
9 Offer to Aid Governor in
Proposed Insurance
-House Cleaning
III COUNCILS MAY , SOON ACT
Interested in the Alleged
Gambling on Deaths of
.34l Policemen
F ' " mt.ll..tAlMf.l Ak.,-lnllni nf T.lf
-".J ,. Tilt I-UIHUDIiii OOUvin.. .... ..u
Underwriters Is rendy to throw tlio whole
rawer of It organisation behind Oovernor
Brumbaugh If lie undertnkes nn Insurance
Investigation with tho view of bettering
conditions.
Frank D, Buser, chnlrman of the asso
ciation's publicity committee, says the us
soclatlon will be glad to bade nn Insurance
house cleaning In Pennsylvania.
The Underwriters' Association has hlRh
standards, linscd upon thoso set by Charles
.Kvnns Hughes when ho made New York
State wash Itself clean of Insurance bae.
terla. As Mr. nurcr said:
i Such a company as the Pension Mu--.',
tual Life Insurance Company could not
get membership In our association. Wo
- would not have It.
The Pension Mutual Life Insurance Com
pany, as almost overy one knows by this
time, Is the company that Insurnnco Com
missioner J. Denny O'Nell Is determined to
make come up to mark. Tho receivership
., hearing In Its case will bo held In Harris
t" burg December 18, and Mr. O'Nell thinks
the report of tho company's own nctunry
ought to be reason enough lo cnuso a re
ceiver to be named. Its president Is Lyn
don D, Wpod, who hns been much In the
public eyo of lato because of his other
1 connections, notnbly liln power in tho Union
Casually Company, although he Is no ofll-
cer; In the Consolidated Investment Com-
1kI4 !Dany' although ho Is no officer, and also his
'Jlltfc connection with tho'- police Insurance
g mysicry, wnicu iuucucb nun as president
'a oi ino i-ension -uuiuai, ii is mo j'cnsion
Mutual that has been carrying the Insurance
" for policemen In tho Pollco Beneficiary As
, soclatlon.
The Underwriters' Association Is Inter
, csted In airing all that tho public has come
ft to question In tho Insurance field. Said Mr.
nuser:
We want tho State to fix the situation
so that when an Insurance agent of any
company whatsoever calls on a man
that man will know ho la talking
to an absolutely accredited representa
tive of an Insurnnco company which Is
reputable beyond a doubt, becauso tho
'State has placed Its "O. It" on ft,'""
There ought to bo no mora doubt by a
policy holder about the company with
Which he Insures thnn there Is by a de
"A
positor about the national bank which
carries his account. Tho Under
writers' Association will be tickled to
death to help the Governor or the in
surance commission Bring about this
condition.
, From tho Interest aroused In tho Insur
ance situation since the police Bcnndal' be
came known, it Is expected that thcro will
be a great deal sad when tha city fathers
meet on December 7 to consider Councilman
I. Walter Thompson's resolution to Investi
gate the affairs of the Police Beneficiary As
sociation as they aro linked up with (ha
Pension Mutual Life Insurance Company.
As he pertinently put It. ho wants to know
is who is making money out of tho deaths of
'Jt'j . Thl!n,llnhln'H nnltr.mAn1
Ills resolution to have a. committee of Ave
councllmen investigate tho situation comes
up Thursday. Tho Mayor's interest was
evinced yesterday when ho summoned Lyn
don D. Wood for a conference, which was
Intended to disclose the nam? of the "un
known philanthropist."
ME RAZES BREAKER, '
MAKING 800 JOBLESS
$160,000 Structure of Delaware
and Hudson Railway at Larka-
ville Destroyed
WIU'ES-BAnRB, Pa Dec. ,3, The No.
i breaker of the Delaware and Hudson Coal
Company, at Lnrksvllle, waa destroyed by
Are today. Eight hundred men and boys
are Idle, and It will take several months
to rebuild the breaker.
t The origin of the fire Is unknown.' Not
until tho upper part of the breaker was en-
Treloped in flames was the fire discovered.
Whistles were tied Jlown and calls went to
all nearby fire departments, but help cams
too late.
The building, erected fifteen years ago,
was one of the blgest breakers In the valley.
It was of wood, with Bldlngs of sheet metaL.
i The loss la about H0,000.
; Motorist Abandons Old Victim
PALMYRA, N. 1. Dec. 3. M. J. Traut
,man, seventy-one years old, was knocked
from his bicycle by an automobile. Ills
wheel waa demolished and his nose bo
crushed that It will be necessary to re
move the bone. The occupant of the car
stopped, but offered no assistance.
K THE WEATHER
FOHEOABT
For Philadelphia and vicinityFair
Utather and moderate taiftpcraturet to
ntaht and Sunday tatth lowest tonight
about 3S degreea gentle westerly xclnds
ieeomlng light and variable.
I-KNOTII OJ? PAV
T4 a. to. I
4 4 J p. in. I Moon soutlu. 833 p. m.
fun rUu
Sua u
DKiAW.UIK BIVKB TIDK ClMJi'OES
CHESTNUT BTBBET
fiK1 Z-!r 13! . m. I Htea wsttr. Tg n. m.
J-9 WMe 34 . m. I lstr w.t". 32S m-
"TiairiKAIf VHV AT JUC1I 1IQUB
i l ioi iiii2T"if a i at a
JikL&Lmrrximsi r-r
RUSSO-RUMANIANS HALT DRIVE
OF MAfcKENSEN; FALKENHAYN
GAINS; ALLIES SHELL ATHENS
Teutons Checked South of Bucharest.
Slavs Regain Western Part of Cer-
navoda BridgeGermans
Advance in Wallachia
Czar's Forces Push Furious Assaults in Carpathians and
on Stokhod Berlin Reports Capture of 6000
Prisoners Armistice Between Greeks
and Entente Commander Fails
Will Duchnrcst bo saved?
This is the question forced to tho front by todny's dispntches from I'etro
grnd and Derlln.
Tho Pctrogrnd Wnr Office reports that Russo-Rumnnlnn troops tire success
fully resisting the pressure of the Austro-Gcrman nrmies toward tho Rumnnlnn
capital. Tho Russinn Wnr Office states that all Teuton attacks in tho fighting
south of tho Rumanian capital have been beaten bnck, tho vlllngc3 of Komnna
and Gostinari recaptured and tho western part of the fnmous Cernavoda bridge
retaken by tho troops of General SnkharofT. The Russians nro attacking with
great fury all along the Carpathian front, in Transylvania and in the Dobrudja.
Tho German War. Office announces that nil Russian assnults in the Car
pathians have failed and that more than 6000 prisonors hnvo been captured by
tho Germans since yesterday. Tho defeat of the Rumnnian army southeast of
Pitosci, in Wnllachtn, is also announced. A grent battle on Field Marshal von
Mackcnscn's front, south of Duchnrcst, Is now in progress, Merlin says. In
addition to their assaults on the Rumaninn nnd Carpathian fronts tho Russinns
aro attacking on the Stokhod. The attacks there, according to Berlin, hnvo
also failed.
The armistice reported to havo been reached between the Greek Government
and Admiral du Fournct, the Allied comtnnndcr, ns a result of tho controversy
which has arisen from the refusal of Greece to surrender Greek arms anil
ammunition to the Allies hns failed, according to latest dispatches received in
London from Athens. Fighting has been renewed on the hills tiouth of Athens,
according to tho dispatches. Tho Allied fleet is also reported to hnvo fired in
tho direction of tho hills, with two shells falling in tho center of Athens.
The total number of casualties as a result of encounters between French
troops nnd Greek reservists nro estimated at 200.
MACKENSEN HALTED;
FALKENHAYN GAINS
PjrrROanAD. Dec 2.
Ttusso-Itumanlnn forces nro successfully
withstanding tho Teutonic pressure toward
Bucharest.
Today's official statement nssertcd that,
nil enemy nttacks had been repelled In tho
southern fighting below tho Rumanian cap
ital, and that tho enemy had been driven
from tho villagos of Komnna and Gostinari,
which 'they had captured yesterday.
"We gained tho western part of tho Ccr
navo'da bridge," tho official statement de
clared today.
Admission that tho Rumanian forces de
fending Ducharest from tho west had been
pushed back after persistent Teutonic nt
tacks to tho River Argca was mnde In to
day's official statement.
In Dobrudja, In tho region of Kolnklol.
tho statement declares, the enemy had been
compelled to retire southward from several
heights.
BERLIN, Dec. 2.
Fighting between Teutonic nnd Russian
and Rumnnian forces In the Carpathians
nnd on tho Tr&nsylvanla frontier Is still
In progress wlththo enemy suffering hoavy
losses, the War Offico announced Joday.
On Field Marshal von Mackcnsen's front
a big battle has developed.
Tho offlclnl statement declared the num
ber oLRumanlan prisoners taken slnco De
cember 1. so far as possible to estimate
now, was-Bl officers. 6115 of all other ranks,
and tho booty, 49 cannons, 100 tilled am-
Continued on ran Four, Column Four
GIRL WHO THREATENED
WILLIAMS HELD IN BAIL
Given Into Care of. Family.
Penn Football Coach Refuses
Comment
Miss Jeannette Saxe. the twenty-two-year-old
girl who was arrested for threatening
Dr. Carl 8. Williams, former University of
Pennsylvania football star and bead cpach,
was released today under $300 ball for
court In the care of relatives and taken
to her home, 2211 North Woodstock street.
Friends of Doctor Williams declared that
the girl was suffering from hallucinations,
Imagining a grievance against the physician.
Doctor Williams asked to bo excused from
commenting on the case.
Miss Dora Saxe, elder sister of the girl,
expressed Indignation today that her sister
had been arrested on a warrant sworn out
by Doctor Williams. Her sister, she de.
clared, had been forced to undergo treat
ment tor nervous trouble at the Orthopedic
Hospital after a visit to Doctor Williams'
office. The two young women emigrated
from Ruisla five years ago.
The arrest followed an Interview between
Miss Saxe and Samuel Bnglander, an attor
ney The young woman visited the lawyer
In his offltfs a few days ago and, according
to the police, wanted him to bring action
airalnst Doctor Williams, Mr. Knglander
was startled when Miss Saxe suddenly
asked this question:
-"Suppose I toon a gun and killed this
man? Could I not appeal to tha unwritten
law and get freeT Would that not bo con
sidered Juatr
The lawyer Immediately told the police
and refused to have anything to do with
her case. Virtually the same thing had
happened when she visited and questioned
such lawyers as John O. Johnson, John, R.
K. Scott and Congressman George Graham
on the faatter, the police said. Bach In.
hb turn bttd refused to have her as a client
Doctor Williams testified that he bad
many time received warning tram law
5W tht Miss Sa bad threatened to q
Urn. bidUy barm-
S
GREEK-ALLY ARMISTICE
FAILS, DISPATCH SAYS
LONDON. Dec. 2.
That the armistice reported to havo been
arranged In Athens In settlement of tho
Greek-Ally controversy has failed -was re
ported in a dispatch received today by the
London Kycnlng Star, dated Athens, Fri
day, 7:5 p, m.
The dispatch declared tho battle on tho
hills south of Athens had been renewed with
an artillery attack by Frf.ncli.nrltnh,.n:iyal
tnmtu
The ' samp correspondent wns authority
for the statement that Allied wnrshlps in
tho Zapparon .fleethnd fired toward tho
hills nnd that two shells hnd fallen near
tho center of tho city.
It Is feared, the Star dispatch declared,
that thirty-flvo French marines havo been
taken prisoners by the Greek forces.
Tho casualties In tho fighting In tho
streets of Athens nro estimated nt 200.
Karller dispatches from the Greek capltnl
today stated nn armlstlro had been effected
between Allied troops nnd Greek reservists
at Athens.. A neuter dispatch from tho
Greek capital today asserted that King
Constantino had ngreed to delivery of six
mountnln batteries to tho Allies.
In return. It was said. Admiral du Four-
net agreed to withdraw allied troops from
the city pending reference of tho agreoment
to tho allied Governments. Previous to the
reported settlement, which now nppears to
havo failed, tho Allies had planted guns on
tho Acropolis and their warships at Piraeus,
prepared to shell the Greek capital.
There were encounters nt three points
Continued on Page Four. Column Tbrro
ONE KILLED, ONE DYING;
AUTO RUNS INTO POLE
Man and Boy Victims of Nice
town Lane Crash Three
Others Hurt
Charles Weber, Jr., thirty years old, of
189 West Wisbart street, is dead, Ernest
Kurtz, Jr., five years old, of 229 West
Wlshart street, Is dying, and three other
persons are suffering from severe Injuries
as a result of a collision of an automobile
In which they were riding last night with
b, telephone pole on N'lcetown lane east of
Kensington avenue.
Norwood C- Cummlngs. of Camden,
driver of the car, escaped Injury. He was
arraigned before Magistrate Wrlgley In the
Belgrade and Clearfield streets police court
today and held In $1500 ball to await action
of the Coroner,
With Weber when the- accident occurred
were Ills wife. Mrs. Mamie Weber, thirty
years old; Ernest Kurtz, twenty-four years
old, the father of the boy who la dying;
Ernest Kurtz, Jr.. Mrs, Elizabeth Kurts
and Cummlngs, the driver.
They had started, for an evening' drive
and were going east on Nice town lane when
they came to a pile of sand pear Kensing
ton avenue. Weber cautioned Cummlngs
about the sand pile, Cummlngs said, and In
trying to avoid It, the automobile struck a
mud hole. Cummlngs lost control of the
steering wheel and the rsr crashed Into
the pole.
. Policeman Conn, of tljs Belgrade and
Clearfield streets station, sent the Injured
persons to the Krankford Hospital. Then
he arrested Cummlngs, who had escaped in
Jury by holding to the steering wheel and
jumping clear oi the wreck. ,
Bsih Weber and the Kurtz, boy euffered
fractures of the skull ; Krat Kurtz, father
ot tb boy. received severe cuts and bruises s
Mrs, Webr,lw was broken -aad Mrs.,
Kjtrt & teUraM injuries.
U. S. Senator, Backing Bald
win for Speaker, Attacks
Contractor Rule
RIDICULED AS PROPHET
Penrose and Vare Shots
in Speakership Contest
SENATOR PENROSE
'"DALDWIN is the natural choice
D of Republican lenders and he
will continue In tho fight without
compromise until tho finish."
"Any nttempt at coercion of State
employes in violation of overy pro
priety will fail to intimidnto Repub
lican lenders in what thoy think is
right."
"Neither can promise of appoint
ments nnd tho use of patronage,
which in the cae of n Legislator
verges upon bribery, change the pur
pose of Legislators in what they
think is right."
SENATOR VARE
"Penrose is simply injecting him
iclf'into a matter which could be well
handled by others."
"In backing Unldwirt, Penrose is
simply following his policy, register
ed by him at Washington, that in
favor of working children by the side
of adults."
"Penrose nnd McNichol havo been
conferring dnily for weeks on this
question, which shows that Penrose
is opposed only to one contractor."
Polltlcnl shots at long range between
Senator Penrose nnd Htnto Sonntor Varo
nrc the Intest developments In tho Baldwin
Cox light for tho speakership fit tho next
Stato House of Representatives. Penrose
denounced the contractor rule In tills city
nnd "Its entailing nc.indnS," and predicted
certain victory for Itepnwntntlvo Ualdwln
'There will bo no compromise," ho said.
Senator Vnre, In reply, enmo to tho de
fenso of the "legitimate contractors," and
Intimated that Penrose himself "might be
found to be a silent partner in the contract
ing business." Mr. Vnro said tho peoplo of
tho city nnd Kioto had voiced no complaint
ngnlnst contractors taking part In politics.
In reply to tho Ponroso claim thnt Uald
wln would bo selected Speaker, Mr. Vnre
took a nnal nine, pointing to tho failure
of Mr. Penrose's pre-election predictions.
'Tcnroso nnd McNichol," sold tho Sena
tor, '"have been conferring dally for weeks
on the' speakership ciucstlon, which shows
lh,V,'prWfrf.te..,'npV4ftl'ly
I tractor."" T
ono con
tractor.
In hit. statement Senator Penrose de
clared he nnd his friends would support
Baldwin to tho end,""""wltliout compromise,"
nnd that nltempts at coercion would fall to
sway tho Representatives from their con
ception of right. Ho said roport from all
over tho State convinced him Ualdwln would
bo elected nnd that It was only right that
tho tpeakcrshlp should go to a county out
side of Philadelphia, In view of the fact
that Philadelphia haH a preponderance of
State offices.
"Moreover." continued tho 'Scnntor's
statement In this connection, "tho prom
Incnco of contractor leadership In tho so
called Republican Organization In Philadel
phia, with the frequent scandals which have
been attached thereto in the pnst nnd are
flagrant at tho present time, has been nnd
is the Htibject of adverse criticism nnd re-
proach among tho patriotic Itcpiihllcniis
throughout tha State, and In fact In tho na
tion at large."
8TATKMKNT UV PKNROHK
Tho Senator's statement followrd a con
ference he held with lenders of tho Penrose
McNichol faction of tho Organization in
his office. In part It Is ns follows:
After hearing from all over the .Slate
Continued on Tain Four. Column SU
FANATIC HAS GORY PLAN
TO END WOES OF WORLD
Wild Lookinir, Bewhiakered,
Armed With Knife, Ho Ter
rorizes Terminal Crowd '
A wild-looking man, with long whiskers
nnd straggling hair, chased u number of
passengers around the Heading Terminal
this afternoon and enuued n temporary
panic. When he was Dually overpowered
by Iteserve Policeman Ilornn he said ho
was going to Washington to kill President
Wilson nnd settle the troubles of the world.
A long carving ltnlfe was found In his
coat pocket, but he showed no resistance
rwhen It was taken from him. At City Hall
tho stranger gave his name as George
Krause.
When examined by Police Surgeon John
Wanamaker, 3d, Krause told him that bo
Intended to settle the high cost of living and
had a plan to settle trio war In Europe and
other troubles In different parts' of the
world.
Doctor Wanamaker promised to take
Krause before the American Ambassador,
but while waiting the latter's arrival, es
corted htm to the Philadelphia Hospital.
FALSE SKIRT SHOPLIFTING AID
Detectives Allege New Trick in Charge
' Against Two Women
False sklrts operated by a string In such
ft way that shoplifter may hide her stolen
goods very quickly and effectively are said
to have been worn by Katie Polosky and
Mary Dreckoskl, who were charged -jrlth
stealing furs valued at fits from a down-
town department store yesterday.
Detectives Engel and Anna nichards told
Magistrate Beaton today that the two
women, bad supplanted the uliepllf Ur'a shawl
vita ftitw skirt The wjp were held
f s-r a hWfinx In MOO feU
CONDEMNED MURDERER GETS RESPITE
IIAKIUSBUKG, Dec. 8. Oovernor Brumbaugh today granted
Junius Alston, of Chester County, sentenced to die 'or murder during
tho week of December It, a respite until the wee kof Janunvj IB.
' Alston's case wns before the pardon bonrd last month and wns held
tinder advisement..
SWISS-ITALIAN FRONTIER SEALED BY CADORNA
DER.NE, Dec. 8. The Swiss-Italian frontier hna been scaled by
the Italian military authorities. (The foregoing evidently means that
extensive troop movements arc under way by the Italians. The border
was closed to mask the enterprise. It is believed that Italy u pre
paring for another powerful offensive thrust. Any r.vo nt thio Unto
must be considered ns a Jolut movement with Ilussia to help savo
Rumania.)
ONE DEAD, FIVE
S iJ V7 I
'Uris. : SvKl!
This enr, contnininR six persons, struck n tologrnph polo in Nicctown
lnno near Konsinfjton tlVcnuo Inst night, ns n result of which Chnrles
Wobcr, of 130 Enst Wishnrt street, is dead, nnd five other persons,
including 'Weber's wife, were severely injured,
$70,000 STEEL BRIDGE FOR MARGIE STREET CROSSING
A now $70,000 bridge, of steel nnd concrolo nnd with n 102-foot Hpnn, wlllro
P'lsoethef-tjlrr-fttttTkle',strcot bridge' crossltiR tho tntclis of tho Now York division of
tho Pennsylvania Hnllrond, familiar to tho thousands who hnvo nttomjed baseball
guinea nt Shlbo I'urk. Bids hnvo been
soon by Director Dntcsmnn, of the uepurtmcnl of Public Works. Tho city will
benr onc-fourtji of tho cost.
THREE YEARS' INTERNAL REVENUE HERE 550,000,000
More thnn t.10.000,000 In collections lmvo boon received by Kphrulm I,oilcror,
Collector of Internal Iteveiuio for tho Klrst District of Pennsylvania, slnco December
1, 1913, tliu (late of his appointment, llccelpts In November. 101G, totaled l,oni,77CrJ,
nn IncreiiMo of ?35,utG.:!G over November, 1015, ami imiklnK tho total amount
GO.-IOIl.&TO.SX
HOUSE COMMITTEE COMPLETES $.$9,000,000 BILL
W'AHIIINCiTON, Dec. 2. The House AppruprlntloiiH Commltteo today complutcil
tho llrst of tho fourteen big appropriation bills which Coni;i'esH must put through ul
the coming session tho legislative, cxccutlvo and Judicial mipply bill. This measure,
which carries sumo $39,000,000 to pay (iovernment employes, will bo repotted to tho
IIouso for action cither .Monday or Tuesday.
EX-PROFESSOR AT IIAYERFORD ON TORPEDOED SHIP
Prof. T. Itondel Harris, formerly of Haverford Collego and Johns Hopkins
University, wuh among tho passengers of tho steamship City of IJIrmlughnin, which
wiim torpedoed recently by a LT-boat. All tho passengers havo been reported snved.
Doctor Hnrrls Is a noted New Testament scholar. Ho taught biblical literature
anil Oriental languages at Haverford from 1886 to 1802.
WELSH MINERS GET 15 PER CENT WAGE INCREASE
LONDON, Dec. 2. Tho Government today granted demands of South Wales
mincra for a fifteen per cent Increase In wages. Tho decision follows announce
ment of "nationalization" of tho mines and operation liy a Government commission.
CARRANZA OUTLINES HIS NEW CONSTITUTION
Ql'KUETAIK), ilex.. Dec. 2. Klrst Chief Carrnnza outlined today to the 2B2
delegates to Mexico's first Liberal Congress tho terms of Mexico's new Constitution.
As Retailed by the Provisional President, tho new Instrument will contain-reforms
In labor and illvoreu laws and that of equal tights for all foreigners, and, lastly
and most Important, utter abolition of clnss privileges. Tho proposed Constitution
adheres closely to the fatuous declaration of Juarez.
ARCHUOLD'S CONDITION BETTER; OIL MAN MAY LIVE
""" NEW YOItK. Dec. !. Iteports today from tho bedsldo of John D". Archbold.
president of tho Standard OH Company or New Jersey, stated lie was improved nnd
holding tho slight gain hejind made yesterday. A corps of doctors and nun-en are
In attendance.
WILSON OFF TO ILLUMINATE LIBERTY STATUE
WASHINGTON, De& 2. President Wilson left ot 10 o'clock today for New
York, where ha will flash the signal from his yacht, the Mayflower, for tho Illumine
tlon of tho Statue of Liberty tonight. Mrs. AVllson, Secretary Tumulty, Dr. Cu,ry
T, Grayson, the White House physician, and two stenographers completed tlio Presi
dent's party, The President's train Is due to arrive A.t 3:18 p, m.
CONDENSING COMPANY
WELLSHOnO, Ia., flee. 2, Because of the unprecedented demand for cor.,
densed mllk; products, tho Helvetia Milk Condensing Company, of Highland. Jlt,,
which owns three of tho largest condenWles in the East, all In Tioga County, one
at AVellsboro, one at Westfleld and one at ElUland, has advanced the price paid
to producers from 2.10 to $2.45 per 100 pounds. The January, 1916, price was j.85
GOVERNOR OF SERBIA AND SOLDIERS DIE IN WRECK '
LONDON. Dec, 2. Slxtyslx persons, a majority of them soldiers, have been
killed in a. railway accident at Herozechalen. The Injured numbered ISO. sixty 0f
them being hurt seriously. Ludwlg von Thalloeiy, a, member of the Austrian diplo
matic corps, and the Governor of Serbia were among those killed." They were re
turning to Budapest from Vienna, where ttjey had attended the funeral of Emperor
Francis Joseph.
MORE WHISKY THAN BEER IN LANCASTER DISTRICT;
LANCASTER, Pa., Dec a. The revenue receipt for November were trifle
leas than last month. Cigars furnished '203,886.81. and whiskey passed beer for
the first tune la many months. The receipts from whiskey ifre ,S?S.pi and
from neer $S1WH. Ninth revenue district rtsidenyi drink hut Hit's velaf, tin
receipts betas pnlx I5M3. - . -.
HURT, IN CRASH
; S :
received nnd the contractWllI bo nwnrdci
PAYS MORE FOR MILK
Mills Will Be ComiJellcti
to Close if Found
Responsible
SODA IN PAPER PHODUCT
First Moves in Drive
on Polluters of Water
Dr. Snmuol G. Dixon, Stnlo Com-.
. .issioncr of Health, nnd corps .of
Stnto health inspectors is today toUr
intf Mnnnyunk manufacturing plants
nnd senrching for wntor polluters.
Wnsto discharge from tho plants
of tho Martin & William H. Nixon
Compnny, tho Philadelphia Paper
Company nnd tho Collins & Aikman
Compnny nro being1 investigated. .
Doctor Dixon snys that these dis
charges contnin sodn, which, if ex
pelled in sufficient quantities into ,
Schuylkill will irritate intestinal,
trncts of West Philadelphia water
users. Plants of Mnnnyunk stcol and
iron mills are being inspected.
To search for evidence of pollution of
tho Schuylkill by manufacturing plants. Dr.
Samuol G. Dixon, Staid Commissioner ot
Health, and a corps ot Stato health In
specters nro today making a rigid inspection
ot the river-front .mills In Mnnnyunk,
Doctor Dixon says that ho Is convince
thnt tho strong chemical odor nnd taste of
tho city wntcr supplied by the Schuylkill
nro not duo entirely to gun generated by de
caying mlcro-orgnnlsms, but nro In a large
measure canned by wasto discharge front
Manayunk mills. It Is probable that ririy
mills found evading tho law will be shut
down.
Doctor Dixon Is giving especial atten
tion to tha plants of tha Mnrtlp and
William H, Nrxon Paper Manufacturing
Compnny, the Philadelphia Paper Company,,
Collins & Alkmnn Paper Company and to
tho steel nnd Iron mills along the Manayunk
river front.
From tho plant of, the Martin & Wll'tam:
II. Nixon Company n great volume of milts-
colored water pours Into tho Hcliuylklll,
coloring mo river in a wium oi nuoui
thirty feet nnd making the water appear
mllk-whlto for a distance nf more , than 109'
yards downstream. This milk-white torrent
gushes throughout the day from a large
Hired plpa Into the Schuylkill, which fur
nishes tho water supply of more than
DOO.OOO of Philadelphia's population. A,
great strenm of steaming ivater gushes frdra
a pipe opposita tlia plant of Collins & Air
mail Company, For fifty yards or more
along tho Schuylkill opposite thq Collins &
Aikman plant near the point where the
steaming water entcra,Jhe river the rocks
and shoro arc covered with a thick, dirty
hcuiii. Kven the water along tho shore 1
overlaid with this substance, which, )g a
Bort of dirty whlto In color. Another stream '
of dlrty-looklng water pours Into the river
from tho plant of the Philadelphia Taper
Compnny.
HAHMLKSS. PAPKItMAKKlt BAYS
When a representative of tho EvkniKc
I.mmKii asked tho superintendent of the
plant of Martin & William H, Nixon the
nnturo of the substance which made tH ,
Htrenm jiourlng from their plant mllfe
white, he replied:
"It Is nothing but clay, which we use Jn
tho manufacture of paper. It Is perfectly
harmless. In fact, I believe that It would
havo a tendency to purify the river rather
than pollute."
He escorted the reporter to a warehouse
Continued en l'ai FourAfoluoln fire
HOW LONG IS LEGAL KISS?
EQUAL SUFFRAGISTS KNOW
League Adds Knowledge of State Keg-,
ulatlvo Statutes to' Its Fund of
Information
NI3W YOItK. Dec, 2. State statutes rear
,.i.,iu nf osculatory demonstrations have
been added to the fund of knowledge fcelmx
gathered bjvthe i:quai uunrage tragus.
HuhT Surfrthat's what it means.
Indies have learned how long Is a legal
kiss. They know It Is eight feet, no more,
In Pennsylvania : ten feet in Ohio and Kan.
as. In most other States! with no statute
made and provided the common law de
termines.
These important iua ttvv vvmiu iwi3
WuStephen Bush, who lectured to tha.la
dies on movie censorships.
Personally. Bush believed the regulation
are too strict.
,
TEARS UP HIS MONEY
POLICE SEIZE SCRAPS
Liquor Gives Notion Hes Millionaire.!
Some Fragments Lost; Rest
Go for Fine
BALTIMOBB. Dec. S. For the first tins
the Baltimore police department acaeptrt
torn money as payment for a fine t$d,S.
when Robert Blonards, twenty-four jwf ,
old, of IJarrisburg. Pa., was fined t jgj . :
costs by MagUtrate Packard on & phi
of being Intoxication, "TT5
nichards started, tot Baltimore to p
chase clothes, but drinks caused hint W J
lleve he was a millionaire. On tha trai
lie tore up his money and threw in napy.
M,ot of the bills wJt oat the wii4vir, .
Borne of tha pieoee, kwr, f n a it
floor and were ptaeed Uy tb coa-.'wAar in.
Illelufrd'a poeketa. TImm
luUuJud together at tlut twite Kaftan, u4
It si faujrt tjsaj mis? two sMiat mm '
TMir'jifU jl Mji If, HhZjA
Mii'TrM-rewsSKir ' .' -
: .
hi
