" ' I
1
I .(till. K
West
THE WEATHEK rOMCAIT,
Fair to-day and to-morrow ; little change
in temperature ; moderate west winds.
Highest temperature yesterday, 47: lowe.it, 38.
Detnllcd weather, mail and marine reports on pace l.
IT SHINES FOPv ALL
A
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 93.
4
NEW YORK, SATURDAY, DECEMBER 2. 1916. Vovvrlphl, 1916, by the 81m Printing tinrf 'uMltMnjr AHoclatton.
fWM? r,ITMrP tn flreater New York. I Klsewher
UINCJ I-N 1 jersey City nnil Newark, I TWO I'KNT.
VILLA MENACES
BORDER TOWNS;
PERSHINGWAITS
Administration at Wash
ington Fears Carranza Has
Lost Hold in North.
WHITE HOUSE HAS
AUKMIXG REPORTS
U. S. Forces in Mexico Will
Attack Bandits, Is
Army View.
12,000 MEN READY TO
GET OUTLAW CHIEF
Crisis Taken Up in Confer
ences by Wilson, Lansing
and Baker.
Washington, Dec. 1. The situation
It northern Mexico Is authoritatively
described as extremely grave and oftl-
ciaU here fear a complete collapse of
virianzas control over mc termor
contiguous to the American border.
President Wilson and Secretary Lati
tat discussed the latest alarming: news
' it (be White House to-day and Secre
tary Baker saw the President later.
Urt.in.in-.nrtw, n.v... i, ....
It conference to-day and no denial
II made of the fact that the cap-
tut ot Chihuahua city by Villa
itotxteni to rejult In the complete
dtaiaition of northern Mexico by the '
btadlt chief. .
Elleto Arredondo, the Mexican Am-'
taaudor Designate, came nost ham to
ib sine Department this morning, but
Ml mlwlon was far from reassuring.
Hi Indicated that Chihuahua cltv had
Mtn because of the laclt ot ammunl- ,he sergeant, was shot while chasliig
I.W. The Ambassador's statement was criminal twenty-four years ago, and
ulnplltd charge that the United States' k o last Sunday she strayed
ferirnracnt was responsible for this 'away for the second time. She started
atk of ammunition beif.Use of the rigid, for church, and was last seen alive In
tiki of the, embargo still in forte. Only ! front ot the Holy Name Church, Ninth
hiirlduil shipments of ammunition are -d Trospec: avenues, Brooklyn,
-towed to the de facto Government Assistant District Attorney Reuben
Irwin after each shipment has been 'Wilson ent last night to look at the
iftciJcally requested by First Chief Car-!
Mia. I
Worried .(boat Pershing.
Dtipatches reaching the War Depart
Met contain mostly hearsay evidence
fiom the border concerning the fighting
t Chihuahua city, but they contain dls
tlictly disquieting information. There Is
articular concern over a report that
Vilnius threaten to occunv Juarez and
,tiiit the bandit chief. will extend his line
nonnwara rrom Chihuahua practically
mralltllng the forces of Brlg.-Gen. Per
iilns. which Is based at Kl Valle.
Conditions might easily arise. It is
!d, which would Justify Gen. 1'ershlne
In proceeding against the bandit columns.
truing to officials ut the War Depart
)nt, ilen. Pershing would not permit
he Vl!litin to take up any position
tlrh from a military viewpoint would
beaten the bonier. "Pershing would
llik the bandits at once under those
fond.tlons without waiting for orders
mm Wayhlnglon," It was explained.
0n, Pershing has u command of
uvi'o lAfii np:iponed. well euulnned
and Is ready at the dron of the !
bit. o , pursue his oVlglnal orders to "get
5! ijyr.
xitlc understanding between the Wash.
titon and Mexico city Governments
Wt he will not furtlier Interfere with
internal conditions In Mexico. This un
wtitar.dlng Is, however, baaed on the
"umptlon that Carranza can control
w situation In nortliern Mexico. With
3lli In control a very different problem
'Jnti Itself to this Government, It is
Emitted.
Irni) Offlcrrs Puxslrd.
DetDite Sennr Arr.lnmlf.'. lnu,,,-n
J-M shortage of ammunition caused Gen.
Tlolno to abandon the city of Chlhua
Jui i otnclals here are still endeavoring
w nnd a more likely explanation of the
.nu!ar victory'' of 2.000 Vllllstaa over
Cirranza force estimated at miiiroil.
,'! 12,000, Army ofllcers cannot un-
n.isiiu nny the carranza forces prac-lcll-
melted away while Villa's army
reeded "lens,h a" n-n,nK Pr
Tliese reports lead to only one con
nuiion in the opinion of army officer
That ii that Carranza's force at
UMiuahua city was honeycombed with
ents really hostile to him and ready
t He first opportunity to cast their lot
"111 llla. Only on this theory do mill
iry experts here account for the short
t of ammunition among the forces of
uen. Trevlno and the apparent adequate
'UjW which the bandits possessed.
..Jnere have been many previous Indl
'tlom of ledltlon In the ranks of Ocn.
"rlno's garrison at Chihuahua city.
m..- nave iiKcwise been persistent re
of friction between Minister of
"," "Oregon and Gen. Trevlno. coupled
h Indications that Oen. Trevlno him-
"If Was not altnrether lin.tll. tn Vlll-'s
still a llandlt to' V. !4.
It l.as been long admitted that the
' of Chihuahua city to Carranta serl
"!) threatened his control In north
n Mexico. It means In one sense that
'" graduates from a bandit to the
'Wily of h revolutionary leader. It
4 by omel-l" here that the United
. will not cease to regard him as
wndit no matter what his future
Jer may be, and that he will be shot
r Hunted fur mn,i ie
a!" !he "'""lime the vital question of
"-wii-nn anil other foreign Interests
" Wrlhern Mexico must be considered.
With Villa 111 cnntrnl there this Onv.
mment would almost necessarily have
u look to him for the protection of
vnericsn and foreign Interest, Home
y wouw have to be held responsible
American lives anil nrnnartv. mnrl It
"WM mhnlitedly be of little practical
neflt u hold Carranza respotmlble for
ondliiiin, wiilcli he may be powerless
tontrol
-nother disquieting feature of the
.ja . Cosfisue oa rrf Tit.
VANDERUP SEES PERIL
FOR HUGE U.S. CREDIT
Warns Princeton Students of
Oreat Economic Changea
After the War.
Pmncrton. N. J., Dec. 1. Frank A.
Mftderiip, president of the National
City Bank of New York, to-night
warned the student body of Princeton
university that change aa great aa
those which followed the French Rovolu
lion are probable after the war In the
field of political economy.
The mammoth credit structure which
has been built up In the United States
will crumble at a rate which' will be
ten Utiles as fast as the actual Bold Is
exported from our shores, lie predicted.
Ho suggested two methods of preventing
the gold from leaving the country. One
was Industrial preparedness for the eco.
nomlo struggle with Europe, but lie
doubted whether America would be ready
In time, even though peace does not
seem to be near. The other and more
feasible method, he said, was the pur
chase now of foreign short term securi
ties to meet the shifting of credit.
Many In the audience saw In this part
of his sveech a direct answer to the
Federal Reserve Board, which has pub
licly announced Us opposition to the
purchase of such securities,
'The need for trained minds to meet
the new situation that will arise ro.
lowing the war is greater than ever
before." Mr. Vanderllp told the students.
"The field of sound economic thinking It
bnre In this country at the present time."
He urged the students to study po
litical economy.
MISSING MRS. CAREY
DEAD IN BUNGALOW
Rody of Woman Who. Disap-
pcared Nov. 10 Found in Un
occupied Coney House.
The insiery of the disappearance of
M"" The.esa Carey, for whom priests,
lllin n.lvkl.M. an.l nnllM ti.f. h.n
hunting since November 19, was p.rtly
cleared last night when her body was
found In an unoccupied bungalow In
Canal avenue near West Thirty-seventh
street. Coney Island. .She had been
dead more than u week, and the police
are working on the theory that she was
miini.r.d
Mrs. Care's mind was affected when
hr husband, John, 'a New York detec-1
bungalow where the body was found, and
detectives are investigating. There was
a cut over Mrs. C-vny s head and her
waist had been torn off. The police say
the may have been cut by falling against
the stove In the liungnloa-,
Jnmes Murray, caretaher of several
bungalows in that neighborhood, saw
some children peering Into the rear door
of one of them late yesterday. IT j
ot one oi inrm laie n e-- ''jl
vV!T on the kU?hen floor I V . 's
bodv was on the kitchen floor I
ho tried the door yesterday moil it, am'
that II was fastened securely with a , Jii
lock on the outside.
Mrs. Carey was Identified by her son.
Renjamln. who lived with her at 59S
Kleventh street. Brooklyn. Hhe was f.J
..A.. ..t.l A .I'xtvtttr MUn tf.1m
ji-n.n .... u..un..-., ....... ........
Carey, a teacher In Public Hchool
15. also lived with them. Another sou
Is Dr. J. J. M. fa ley. 13
y v IIV rtflh I
.-.event) -nrm i
street, Day Ridge,
Prayers for Mrs. Careys safety were
f.nereil III wverui ...mine;, nr... iih
Rrook',lo,nr,;L,'sea7cV,r0' '"
"e'Vecrlf'sirw found Is '
,"1r. at " ,lm, . Tur'.. '! i
h"n B (Z whM
CcnierhunwIonrGale:11
oney islanil fiom siea tiate. .Mrs. i
r-..H-. lill.lr.n us utl mu II, m nnlle.
ore at a loss to know how she got there I
and how she met her death. It Is prob-
able an autopsy will be performed.
i
TRUST CO. TO PAY MEN BONUS. 1
Kqultalile i:mnlo)re to Get Hum
Kiiual to -" Vrr Cent, nf alnrles,
A new plan by which it will back
up its employees In" their battle with
the h gli cost or living was announced
yesterday by ofllcers of the Equitable
Trust Company, The company ex
plained that each employee will receive
In addition to bis regular salary a sum
equal to 25 per cent, of that salary.
This sum Is not to ue considered an
Increase in salary and is a temporary
measure, which will bo discontinued or
decreased according to prevailing con
ditions. A eeparate account Is to be
set up from which the funds shall be
paid.
The order nffrcts about 350 employees
and payments are made retroactive, to
Include the months or uctoper anu .No
vember.
RAILROAD MEN WILL FIGHT.
W. B. Btaar Maya They Are Opposed
lo Compulsory Arbitration.
CLgvr.iJVNO. Dec. 1, Any attempt on
the part of Congress to pats n compul
sory arbitration law will be fought by
the railroad men, according to a state
ment to-night by Warren 8. Htone,
Grand Chief of the Brotherhood of Lo
comotive Unglneers,
The railroad men are opposed to
compulsory arbitration becouso it Is un
constitutional," said Mr. Htono. "You
cannot compel a man to work If he doee
not wish to while his wage troubles are
being arbitrated. In the first placo I do
not believe such a taw w III be passed ; In
thenecoivd place. If It Is passed. I cannot
see iow It could be held constitutional."
68 KILLED IN TRAIN, WRECK.
Two Praralaent Anetrlaa tateme
Aimobb the Vlctlna.
London, Dec. 1. Slxty-elx persons, a
majority of them soldiers, have been
killed In a railway accident at Here
aechalen. between Vienna and Budapest
The Injured aggregated ISO, sixty or
them, being hurt seriously.
Ludwlg von Thallociy. a well known
member ut tho Austrian diplomatic
corps and the Governor of Serbia were
among those killed. A despatch by way
of Amatrani said a number of per
onagee who had attended the funeral
of Kwperor Krancla Joseph, were In the
triUa. .
BRITAIN AND FRANCE!
STOP LOAN IN U.S.
J. I. Morgan & Co. Announce
Allien Have No J)esire to Of
fend (Jovpniiuenf:
YIELD TO RESERVK BOARD
Offer to Sell Treasury Mills
Withdrawn Financier
Defend Issues.
Great Britain and "tame, acting
thiough ltegln.ild McKenn. Chancellor
of the Exchequer, and Alexandre Hlbot,
Minister of Finance, yesterday withdrew
their offer to sell treasury hills in this,
rminfrv i
country.
"These Governments desire to show
every regard to the Federal Beserve
Board, a governmental body of which
the Secretary of the Treasury and the
Comptroller of the Currency are ex of
ficio members," said J. P. Morgan & Co.
as reptesentatlves of the fiscal authori
ties of these countries.
The Instructions from their principals
r !
came to J. I. Morgan 4 Co. after the
banktrs had arranged for the sale of a
subatantl.it amount of British treasury
bills and after national banks, SUtnl
h.nk. .-.I m.n... n.i n,w.,t.
banking houses had made application
to participate In the loan despite the fol
lowing admonition from the Federal Ke.
serve Board:
The board believes that at this, time
banks should proceed with much cau
tion In locking up their funds In long
term obligations or In Investments
which are short term In form nr name
but which either by contract or force
of clrcumstanct e may In the aggregate
have to be renewed until normal condi
tions return.
The board deems It Its duty to cau
tion the member banks that It does
not regard It In the Interest t the
country nt this time that they invent
in foreign treasury bills of this char
acter. Statement by J. I. Morgan A Co.
I i up oariKers aim tne iirni-ri ana
French treasury statement of the trans
action was put as follows by J. P. ..Mor
gan A Co.:
"We have been Instructed by the Brit
ish and French Governments to with
draw their treasury bills from sale. We
have accordingly expressed to those In
stuutiona ana investors which nave at-
ready placed orders Willi us for lhrse
securities the wish to be released from
our obligation to deliver, and they have
been good enough to accede. This ac
tion la taken because as explained by
tfie British Chancellor of the Exchequer
nnd by the French Minister of Finance
thee Governments desire to show every
regard to the Federal Iteserve Board, a
governmental body of which the Secre
tary of the Treasury and the Comptrol
ler of the Currency are ex qtllclo mem
bers.
"We may add that the sale In limited i
amounts of these treasury bills, payu.ble
In dollars in New York, bad never been i
an essential part of the allied Govern-1
ments' financial plans, but had for some
time been under consideration with ,
rw lo furnishing a credit medium that I
'"""i1 "com.no.late the Amerloan bank- I
demand for an Instrument of short
iiritnrlty and nf surh limited volume
that the Governments could always un
dertake to lay down gold In New York
sufficient to meet maturing bills.
l.l .. ...l I .r..t.,. Ii... In. 1. a.
,
"It was believed further that these I
bills would have furnished at the end
of the war an excellent mrasure.of pro-1
...I .1. imwuinui iiij-
tfctjon , .rnrrlran financial sltua-1
Hon, Inasmuch as these steadily ma
. .' .,., , ,...,
.,., - ., l,v. !m!..l l r..,l
heavy d'afts of gold from this market.'' ,
"?
fieM Uritnlii uii.1 i.va , At .. Vn.V.
and France. At Its con-
Hr.t.s,,. Frencl
declared that no further
'panid llnaalin tn BAniea.1
' rM.r.
loan IS pianiieil,
The feeling at this conference was
Hint the notion nf the Federal Reserve
Hoard had been hasty, m advised and
partlnl, and there were manv bitter
governments nnu municipalities mu on
the circumstance that the British and
French Treasury bills alone had been
selected as targets for rrltlcirm.
However, It was the sense of the con
ference that the collapse of the negotia
tions for British and French tieasury
bills will not Interfere with the rountr's
trade In the Immediate future.
Foreign Nations Mending Gold,
Russia has Just sent on gold nnd se
curities and stands teady to tend on
much more gold, Great Britain and
France have been maintaining their gold
reserve up to n standard permitting ex
portation, of gold to this country suf
ficient to maintain a reasonable narltv
of exchange. That because of the.refusal I
of credit, admonished upon bankers by
advocated by It, purchases by the Allies
III tills country would be curtailed to
the minimum after as well as during
the war was, of coutce. the consensus
of opinion.
It was also believed by the bankets
that tn lieu of further foreign borrow
ings in this market Importations or gold
would continue In large volume.
WARNING IS EXPLAINED.
tale Department Vol llesponalble
for Withdrawal of .Votes,
Wasiiinutom, Dec. I. The Ktule De
partment, It was learned on good au
thority here this afternoon, was In no
wuy responsible for the withdrawal of
the proposed British and French treas
tiry notes. A rumor to this effeti In
financial circles In New York may have
been due to the fuct that vrlnr to the
warning Issued by the Federal Beserve
Board, Gov. Harding of the Federnl Be.
serve Board called on Hecrctnry Lansing
and submitted to him the views of the
board with respect tu the notes. The
board wus desirous of learning the views
of the State Department as to whether
such n warning ujf they wished to Issue
would In any wsv affect our foreign
relations,
(Secretary Lansing Informed Gov.
Harding that It was purely a domestic
matter for the board tn act on tin R saw
fit ; In other words. It was n question of
bunking, pure nnd simple, nnd did not
concern the Htale Department. On to.
celvlng tills advice the hoard Issued ita
wanting. Neither directly nor Indirectly
has the (State Department interested
Continued on Setomt Pog$,
; mold now,
HAS FIGHTING CHANCE
Only Statement Issued From
House Siiys Patient Is "Im
proving N'icely."
Tarrttow.v, N. Y Dec. I .-John D.
Archbold has u lighting chance fur re
covery and Is making the most of It,
accordins to reuorts which came from
his bedside to-night.
A physician nnd n nurse aie con-
stnntly with him. Mtw. Archbold, who;,,
has recoveied from her tett.norary In-1
eblc to be about nnd Insists upon re
maining with the stricken ninn.
Mr. Archbold's condition Is unchanged
since last night. Having sunk ntend!I ,
up to then, he made ronie gain about
midnight and held It throughout to- , Wt,IIINlirN. ,., ,,Au,ll- oll ,
dny nnd to-nlglit. Thursday brouglit , , ' ,' '
the most comfortable night he has had,0"" hfh.ilf. the American Government
since the appendicitis opcritlnu of No-1 hay Informed Gctmuny anew of Its-deep
vember 2.1. j concern over the deportation of Belgians
ul"(lpr ,he atm..thetle has he lost con-1
rl.niHtm.H Ti,- .fin i.nw.r ,! rtwrL-.
tl"l Ulll'C rim P II' 1.1IIIC win iiwiii
sclousncss. The will power and remark- military authorities. demand th.it 'Klni Constantino's' army
able self-control which ir.ade hi-r, su- , This action has been taken as a re-' turn over to him his guns nnd war ma
preme In business lie now Is using In hl . ,. of nrorm,tion i,llt a-norta. , terlal, is seji; to the D.ilfy Malt In a
fight for life. Physicians arc reported,,, 1 or ,nrorma,lon nUu e u'K,rln npeclal drspatch from J. M. N. Jeffries,
iu nave s.iiu inai nis win anu ins booii
habits alone have kept htip alive.
I rom the house to-nlghl came one
statement that the patient nns "Iniprov-
Inc nlrelv
That I cili! to be a bit
optimistic
Henry 1). l.'stabiook, Col. Itobert
Clowry and other Tarr.Uown neighbors
A It-.. I t It,. 1 . .1.... t it.. . I .. . . t... .
"V" "cUh7nfr . ",'L." ,
pouring in. The John D. Rockefellers
keep In close touch, the father from his 1
",e.. "u" '!M '.,ul ."i1""";
W ""a 111 Itockef eller also Imjuired
frequently to-day as to Mr. Archbold's
condition.
ADMITS BIG FRAUD
IN MOTOR INSURANCE
Sti'iltVI sm II iv Pitlil lui II V Till-
niMMM I MI.S MIS Ollipilll t III
lo.'toil Itotu i'iiii S5L1 0011 mill i
1 ' '"" M
T-.w.www ., iivfiur. .......II-.
Fiederlck G. Slrobef. one of
the
owners of the -Moon Auto Sales Company
of Bedfoid avenue, llrooklvn, I old As-
slrtant Dlstrlrt Attorney Jtoynl
nl II.
any had
I&0.U00
claim.
'..i a
Weller esterday that the company
collected between 145,001) and
oil bozus iiilonioblU' Insurance
XJZ!
The company had been organized
the automublle Insurance coiup.inlss. he
said, and while it did a legitimate le
pair and rales business, this was sim
ply a pretense and the company derlsvd
less than .3 tier tent, of Its Income from
these channels.
'uf ,,i,.V.l.l iriilliv H.t Tiie.ilav '
e Judge Wadhimi to meKentlng a1'
lulfnt claim for motor li.-ur.ince.
,, ,U, in.u,,,,,,,.. ,,.
ad nsked the .! il liideiiii.lt C om-
Htrobel
befoi
fraudulent
He had
pany to pay him for an automobile
stored In his conii;m's garage. It wik
proved that the nilliiiuiiblle was .ill old
one, ulthough St rub 1 had il.ilmed ie
Inibursement fo' a new car.
Slrolwl admitted yesterday that the
eomtiiinv bus tlentrovei more than thlrtv
old cars and collected Insurance on them.
"We'd take an old car, Il It up with
the number of n new- machine, drive it
nut to a lonely sit on the load, and '
,hen pour a few gallon, of gasoline over
It." he said, ncioidliig to Mr. Weller.
"Then we'd touch a match to It and we
would collect for a new ear from the
Insurers.
One of .Strobers p.ntnls I-iI.mi1 the .
.jiii.-i m iun i.imici ,ik,,-,iii,-ii, ui, in
same chaige a- that to which Strobel
pirnded guilty
.. ...
cVTWn AQ liniviD TUirVTC
,tAJif iHJ xVAWA. i.,.MI Ji
I'lillxdelpliln Poller I lien r 1 1. Whole
, '-"-"'
JXi . .7
sale --piii if Itiil.tierles.
1 - -Two gangs
ot alleged motor iiiv thieve- have been
broken tsp and n new system for dl.
po-lug of stolen .New .i;! uud I'lilla
.'"..I?.". r',.
young men within Ihe last few ,1a)...
j.,,,- I..r.:,v. ,.r ..tl-,,.,1
dlcate. was ariesled Oils morning' In
Ambler after the detectives had watched
n barn In which II Is believed eat-stolen
In Philadelphia and New VolU have'
been stored and trr.iled. I.argav s '
lirntlisr. llnrrv. was uri.-deil last S'atlir.
day. The car he was drlilug nt t.ie
time had been disguised ny the nun;
of
uf the engine numbers.
Three tags tlmuglit to have come
fiom other eaix weie found under the
sertl, It ' thought the cur was stolen.
and the ownei Is being sen rched for.
The other prisoners arc Oscar mul
Georgo Miller, also brolheis, who are
DIET SQUAD LOSES WEIGHT.
.Not .rre With olmiteera,
CitirAr.o. Dec. 1 Living on a raioJ
........ ....... i... .. ,a ... .. t
Vh'iiks'gTvng l)ay when Ve ' wheT , Z
yF.ul .."?! J.. uL ! j J.'
,1. HI," "r,l . t , , It (TIKl-1l
to-day,
To-morrow's nitvils will be :
Bteakfast Stewed peats, hoiiilnv.
toast, butter, coffee. '
Lunch Codtlsh balls, Philadelphia
relish, bread, butler, apple duninlln.H.
vanilla sauce, tea
Dinner Vegetable soup, braised beef,
buttered rice, stewed onions, chocolate
Junket, sugar cookies, tea.
The. test will be finished next Tuesday
night.
MISS RANKIN STIRS SENATE.
-
Her F.lei'tlon In House Mil) Cauae
.,, , .,, .,.,....
i naiiHf in irivurara.
Wash inoton, Dec. I The fltst Ini.
pnrtnnt net of the .Senate when the new -
Congress meets will be lo consider the
necessity of u change, of Its standing
rules to rnrry out tn, traditional tour-
.... a. nar,IHIni. iii.m.m.u .. . ....
,; .,, .'".'" " '" il .e
House to enjoy tho privileges of the
Senate floor.
The explanation Is the election of Miss
Jeanettn Rankin of .Montana, The rules
as now enforced do not permit women
on the floor except on those extraordi
nary occasions when a public funcml
service Is being conducted In the Senate
chamber for ry senator,
Mis Rankin will he the first irniiimi
ever to enjoy the privileges of the floor
on ny other occasion.
believed to nave women together with view of Its frequent discussion In tlielwlll maintain Ills lesldepce in Lincoln, ' 'enipt lo deny the light of a ri.-titt.il i tin nf Rumania ha been wiested from
Clementon, N J,, iij their headqiiutters, Reichstag. They w ill also denounce "the ; Neb . and go there to vote. .Mr Bryan's ,'si,,u " maintain full iie, ft Ilplo- ti,. Teiituns by eharge nfter cli iree ..'
According to the police, ever since last ' abominable manner" In wlildi the de-. Ashevllle home will be called .Mount '-' relations with a belUge irm State 1 n,,, it,if. i,i wave- Pukidn beiill.i .-i '
July live auliiinoblliH a week hay,' been' pott.itlon order is eatTled out. Calm, He left lor Ashes ill., to-night I ., "s'im"d, however, that Hunt i It,. ',, .lav haa ."en 1st bow ever
taken to the Aiul.lei bim. This ae-i , )tUes have been installed In I nunir.Or. , after attending a luncheon gheit for 1 rltaln may base her acqulcscem o In , '. .V ,1 ' n'.ost v- li , ', S 1
counts for at leant 100 cars believed to ... Wall street, as headquarters of him bv Sectetari Daniels. 1 '" on a de-Ire to aen.innindat,, ,, " ,,. ' V .. . , 1
'NEW U. S. PROTEST I
ON BELGIAN SLAVERY
J Tills Oovernmeiit Tells (ler-
iiiuny of tliu Resentment
Aroused in Amcrirn.
ACTS OX INFORMATION
...... ,. . . ..,.... t,i,
-" Deported bVCl'.V ftCK,
Minister llaveiiith Tells
State Department.
fro!" ,l,,r ,UU1 'i'i,r.v " derman
uillltnrv n 111 hnrlt!ln.
and after fruitless Informal efforts on
bchnlf of the Belgians made by Amerl-'
can Charge Grew at Berlin.
Germany "has been Informed that the
treatment of the Ilelglans has made a
,crv bail n,I)r.,on ,n tnls country anJ
ilml he Cnlted State, cannot avoid tak
lug notice of the situation, basing Its
xtatul on the bruml grounds of liu-
inanity.
The American Government. It was I from Thessary and other sections of I
(learned to-day. was led u, move notiUrec ll0r,h of Athens. The garrison i
..nlv I,,,....,,. ', ,. .,'. , of Chalcls Is marching with rifles toward
. -j..-. .I-....
that the deportations have been looked (
upon with disfavor both by the Anier-
j?ilgps
Tim lirn,ii.,ill.... nl,.,.(.. 1.. ,1.. L 1 1
.. ,..,.,..... ,un iiiikuu ill iur iihIiiip
or the State Department on the situation
w.m supplemented to-day by the Belgian
""'"' '- Havenltli, who leported to
secretary Lansing that more than 1(10.-
000 "''Ik'-'" had beep deported and that
:!:'"'-L0"
...i.i.,, ,.,l,n,l .,.-.. ,...
He lidded that ralhoad workers have
be.-ri taken to man mllltaty roads now
1 being laid, and that some have been f
iBhen inui me occupied portion or ,
rorthern France, and some Into Ger
many
The new Mrt taken by the I'nlted
Mate, followed visit of ( ol. K. M. llr,t, wm n,. resident Wilson to do all
llou-e and Jam . deiaid, American1, . , r..n -..i-.i -
Ainba-ador to Germany, to the White ""'r ln anange an armistice
Slau Department earlier In , between the waning Powers In Hut one '
the ee:r. Anibasador Gerald, who . before Clir1lm.i Th i.t.lr.i nt n,
Krfi'M1
Mens of President Wilson to the tier-
man Fiiiclgn Oflk'e. hen he arrives The first labor body to act as the ; Ten the Wnhington requett. Iord Rob
there. Central Federated Fnlon. with 500,000 1 '.'rt ,Vcl1' Minister of War Trade, said
Tiik llAficr. via l-omlon, Dec. S (Hat- . . . , ., . . to-day;
urdavl. The Duteh Government has . n,e,,,b'r" 1,1 "" metropolitan district,, i. mu,. ..n( ,n ,,., .,
Prepared a note to Germany rexardlns I
,-'Klni depot tatlon. The note Is i
; ' -''"' 'V10'- h" ,ro" I
test made by Switzerland
GRKAT .V. V. PROTEST.
M. tlrrilnu ii. lit- llld llrrr Mr
eetlll.er I ItiMM l. ieU.
Itegardle-s of the attitude and action
t,, state Department will take toward
tIP wholesale deportations nf Belgians
f mm tMr home- .. Germany prominent
rltlzen- of till-city clergymen
o? all .mrtV of the' e"
nnd edit-
ouutiy nre
preparing to nlie vigorous protests as1
individuals nnd as group- ,
Thev liileinl in ilinomu'e both the de-1
portiitlons and tie maninr of carrying
Oiem mil. whit II thev believe Is exce--
-iveiy urinal. .'an. him.miiu Leigtan-
iuiv' iiiiw ii.'en ii.iii.-iiii.ir'i I,, i eiui'.e
puts of lieiinaiiy to serve In the II. Ids,
in the f.uti.iles and on tile tullioi.ds.
ii, , iiuIIiil- in a l ableiriain teieivril lime
I.... , ... ....
bv the Belgian i 'onsubi Seneiai
Wlille a inoveiii. lit I- gathering head-
way uijdcl" impetus glwn ny the ttev.
Dr. X l.dwurd luung, pastor of the
lledriiiil Presbyleilnii Church ot Bmok-'
ly ii. to unite prominent idiicatois and
t'lcruviiieii of tills tountr in a protest
to clinatois and univeieity heads of
Ge.,na..y against the deportations, plan
"T' . , 7 , .J h. ri-.t ..i ii
. December I., to Voice (he protest of the
! American people
, ...
,,r' "wm
Chbii Root w III be one nf the M.e.il.irs
m ibis in,l:i,ir lllhei.- thus far an-
. :n.. .I.imes 1. tleek and the
' nev. Di William T .Manning, rector of)
i Trinity Church
These men aie leady tv deplore what
they call "the eiislavehient of the
lielelans." which they regard n up es-
I labll-hed fact. In view of the .irknowl-
! edgment of the existence of the depor-
I iii,, older Issued hyeGen, von Hissing,
I dermal. Governor of Belgium, and In
the mas- meeting vtojecl. Jo.-epl
Un Bishop Is acting secietaty
A number of the men Interested In the
i conilng mass meeting had n private.
vesical. is', to discuss what could be done
i. .u. Intetests of Ihe Belgians The I
mass nieetlng was decliUd us,n Among
.i,,,ua ,.-hi, nttended that lllentlni? were
Kri.rU'k W U'hltrldge Thonus
. v. Wnili.i.i T. Manning, .lames M. Beck
i .- . , ., ,, . .., '
Hettiv L. Sllinson, S. R, Bel Iron, Pierre
Mall, it Fulton Cutting, Joseph H.
Clioate. Benjauln T. Calile. Robert:
, Bridges, John M Piuke- anil W 11, ,
' King
relearuin in l ue i-resineiii.
The following telegram signed by the
uhuve n en wa- sent to Piesldent W'll-
son:
Theie are m.in of our citizens who
.1 ll.elr milt tl.w.lld an exores.
wish to do their pint towaid an expres-
! sinn of public opinion legaidlng the de-
portatlon of Belgians Into Oetinnny nnd
France, wiucn ns now reponen appears '
' tu be III violation uf law and humunlt) . I
1 We should be glad to have all the In-
formation possible, so us to be sure of .
, the facts before taking public action, ,
, ".May we have such Information a
I may lift proper as to what facts the I
Stale Department has, what utir Govern- I
tiient has done and what, so far as,
1 .. .... .......Mn ll. ,...,.. .... .
Known, iiinor m ..u.-n.iiienii. nave
done about tho violation or nternat onal i
law in this respect? if the facts are
not known by our Gov eminent, cannot
they be obtained from our Minister to
Belgium?"
ArcnrdliiK to Dr. Young, the lespons
tn his appeal to educators and clergy,
uren to unite in sending n protest
against the deportations to German
i .u,.,.,,,,., n.t ii, bonds i,r n, ,,.r,
J Continued on Second Page,
greeks fighting allies
IN ATHENS;
i Marines Landed by Admiral du' Fournet Engaged in
( Battle by Reservists British and 'Italian
Forces Patrolling the Streets.
tpreiol Cubit hi-iulil, Id Tiik Srv com tht
ImihIuh Time.
Ui.S'mon, Dec. 2 (Saturday). The
Allies and King ConMnntlne have come
to blow. French marines landed by
Admiral lu Font net are fighting on the.
slopes of the Acropolis lit Athens with
Greek reservists loyal to the King.
British and Italian marines were ulso
landed Thursday night, nnd arc patrol
ling the city,
A panic has begun In Athens. Crowds
ale rushing through the streets and
rtmps are being closed,
Two French cruisers have entered
Phaleron harbor
This new, bearing out the vvott feurs
fur lll rsllll nf II, tVttnK A.lmlr.i I'm
uic iaw
AtheiM
Mtilt'i correspondent .at
Actual war between the Government
and troops of King Constantino on the
vhij 11111,1 mill wie uitl'K iiliuiiuill'i.
troops of M. Venlzelos, backed by the
Allies, on the other, may be the result of
this ciasli. Ai'rorillim to one report, not
leservlsts but troops of the Greek tegu
lar army are fighting ttie French.
, An Kirniiip .Vcu'j despatch,, tllril at
' Athens at 1 ME o'clock Friday morning,
I says further repoflM have been terelved
' nt Mr...!, .,uu i,ii.t,lnv tnn.....l Alt. ...in
nt r2r,..b ffirru. inn n.tilnir tntvriv.l Atli,.tta
.scwinjturl.
The ile-patrh says a minor disturb-
- -
K H WAR ARM RT WV
i vit II nil r-lllll-U-lJU
Asketl tTrv....,1 Ar-
, ,. !
mum1 i niee iteitre
Christum
L'nion labor of the I'nlteil Statni., us'a,
" -
council.
which passed resolutions of this purport
last night. Leaders said they expected
nil the other large bodies nf union men
. ,
t follow FUlt
The resolution was eibal and was
offered by Mollis llronn, treasuier. It
slated that 1'm.iiOii.uiIi) men have been
hilled or wounded In the war; that non
rombatants have s.ifieiril silevmifly:
""" "''o!e ""rid Is gome bankrupt
and all to no end. for the le.ison that
the .ont. stanls rai to 1. deadlocked.
with ll'ltlier hide utile to gain the all
vantage. Thriefiiie It whs lewilved
that Piesldcnl Wilson should b.-n-U'd
to try to ai range the armistice.
The le.'oluttnu was adopted unanl-
inously. l-.niest llolin. secrvtuiy, will
,,i, ..,. nr.n .. iiairi
a,,, I til.r... (..I.i.t, t, . BU, nil ......
..., ....... ... piij
the Pie-,leu!.
Mlehai-I Mm pi. . ln.sli.e--. ageni of the
steam enullleei s' union, in eei. ted a fee-
olid resolution, whlih was also adopted
unanimously, calling iimu all unions nf
me i mien Mines nun organized labor
abroad to Join in the plea for an nrmls
lire,
-
NEW HOME FOR BRYAN.
Nenr W iishliiuton.
W csiii.MiTO.v, Dec. -William
Bryan will be the Piesidont's guei at
luncheon at the White Hoii-e next
Wednesday He ui rived heie from New
Voik ( o -tl.i . uiiii m ih ll,,ir,i I n(,,v.
etle "beean.i it bus ii.. I.ir" I i...
mated that he would have something to
I say on prohibition and no.slblv on neiue
' at a dinner to be given for him In the
Hotel Wiilnc.-daj evening
Kalllel In the d,u Air. Mii.m iii.t
a -taletuent to the piusb iiiiiiouiiciiik
that he Intended lo build , home at
I Ashevllle in the Blue Rhine .Moinn.iins
so he could be near Washington. He
GERMANY WARNS NORWAY.
Will Not Tolerate SicoIhI Treat
ment of Niiliiiiiirlnes li; Nentr.il-.
CiiniHTUSI , Norway, Dee 1 The
lffi
view on the submarine controversy w ith
Norway. The Minister says In put
"Germany anniit tolerate any special
treatment of war nnd merchant subma
rines by neuliiil-. Norway Is the sole
r.eulrnl which by special instructions
has conveyed the Itnpi esslnn of adopt
ing the view of the entente
"Germane I- nei'tiiltted bv Interna.
tlnmil law' lo deft nil l.eis.lf with nil
,er powers against Norwegian slilpii
Icairylng contraband, which prolongs the
war; nnd the tecent food crises in Great
' lirl V. ........ and llnssl.i lo.v.. sl.i.w.i
' Britain. I'tniK'H and Russia have shown
that Germany Is on Ihe right path,
tlermany will not be deprived of the
sharp weapon sue possesses m mo hihi-
marine, On (lie other hand, Germany
will always icspeet Norwaj's really dlf-
llcult position, nnd the must vie expect
of rrnlly Independent Norway Is that
she does not Heat German warfare and
German economic problems differently
than those of the enemy"
x '..... rr ...i..l.
i Hkhun (by wireless), Dec. I The
Russian newspaper iiuhiku Morn, as
quoted by the Overseas News Agency,
says In n despatch from llarbln that
the Chinese Government has prohibited
the sending of rnnllcH to Russia,
Large numbers of Chinese eoolle aie
being uteil by Ruteiite nations to make
up for tho scarcity of labor brought
about by the war,
. I,. ...I - , frl.-inlt.' ,,n,,i.-,l c..,.. ...i.i. ... .. i.iiwi-i.iiis ii. i. e hiiiii.-n inns i,ii llill'l
i j rim, , iiiiuiii I'liiniiin .
PANIC IN CITY
ance occurred Thuisday night. A few
revolver shots were filed. No one was
Injured.
.Illat l.f,ifA IliA llniA nr thf flltllfF of
the despatch King Constantino notified
the Entente Ministers of his definite re-1
fusal to hand over the guns, ns de
manded In the ultimatum presented by
Admlinl ilu Foiirncl, which expired yet
tclday. The Greek Government lias glve.i
guarantee that order will be maintained,
but It Is feaied the calling up ot re
servists will have the opposite cITect.
Admiral du Fournet Insisted that sixty
four mountain guns be handed over.
Further time hav oren given for the de
livery of other guns and war material.
BULGARIA FRIENDLY.
Premier Stay tirerco Hum Sit l'otrr
to ltrlt r.lilriile.
IIkiilim (by wireless), Dec- 1 The
Overseun Nc Agency gives out a des
patch from Sofia which nays that ,
"I'remler lUdoslavoff, speaking of the .
emulsion of the Mlnloters of the Central I
Powers from Athens by the French Vice-'
Admiral du Fournet, said good relation I
continued with the lawful Government of
King Constnntlne. The Greek Govern-
mcnt, he said, had no power to prevent
this violation of International law.
I'remler liauosiavotr expressed tne
hope Unit In a snort time tne ( teutonic)
allied Governments would communicate
Kood news to their Parliaments which
.would ue uppiauueir uy nil trie aiueu
nations."
- -
ENGLAND LIKELY TO
. Kr KAN (IN KN vllY
mi i lsi in vr&t -niviL
l.o.d Kol.ert (Veil Hints nt
. a
iniiifre lis rjivor 10 me
t'nited Stntes.
l.o.iox. Dec 1 A sluing Inipiemlon
t'M'Valls here that Great l'.iltalii will
rant the icquost from Washington for
m.onsd,.rn,,ion of )hp ntuml of
safe conduct for Count Adam, Tarnnw ski
vin T.li now. whn was rprrnilf nnnnlntpil
"-!nd;esr"", Amb""Jor "
Although stating that lie had not yet
qtle.tlon presents two entirely distinct
I'l'ae. The tlrst Is that of belllger-
'", J).''". ,,:"!:,!1 ,"t trl"1
'avoi under any ir.-umst:inre We can
,1 sciis and ai-nnge for the . xeh inge of
military and civilian prisoners and other
-imiinr matters with the Central Pow
i. but o:i account of their actions In
till- war we cannot lie tivpeded to grant
them a single favor
"The other phase concern- a hlendlv
rcutrai. like the 1'nltid State.-, to whoili
we an- ready to errant any favor which
doe- jiot violate our Inmeratlve nece--i
ules.
"To grant s-.ife rnndtiet to ( our.t Tar
rowrUl. for which there are pieiedents,
may fall within the latte-. plia.-e. but
iL 14 11 ,lM .(!. . . 1 ..... t.l
A leli'L'i.im l.THlveil
. .1,. ... ... i 5-
.''Miri'idei'l 1;v"Vr,,;la,.''! N Pr'"'''l" va.ylmr fortunes, with
,vl ,i, . ' ."rliV.?. "!' -''-" tr Russians and
. ""ni lenn.i
r.i.i. mf o-i inn-
' i:.ITI1ll I ...l,K til....... .11.1 ... ..
. ni'-ni ni.i r.i, ma si lne
appi'inlmeiu o' Coii'it Adam Tarr.owsl.l
''.'Pnow a- Anilia--id.ir to the
t luted S'.i' uitft a'ti r .i-iii.in, ., lei.i
, l"''11 leieml f.oni r.,. In t.jl Mate
' " niiiii 't for the Ainb.. iiiir
" ' """ o..ik
! I A .S77A77 7'O.V HOPEFUL.
"lllelnl, llell.Me Cnuland Win'
I bullae Mllli.l .in 1 : 1 1 . t .
Wa.iiiv.:i,.v I1..0 i u.... ..
rile Slate De-
paitment awnltlng with . onlide, u the !
respons,. of the Ri.lei.i,. I lov,., miienl.s il.
Its p.esentniion of ,, irasi.u- whv
Count T.iriinw-UI should be, given snf'
conduct n his ni.sslnii in the rn ted '
Stales. .
Alll.nl. g . ihe I if narimein did .. ,.,i. 1
' a spit'lfit' rutilest fne Mil.,. i ..
, d"' ' viefen.ng n point om h,.ii n.
i Kaided as all inal'en.ible il.'l.t i..'i.r
' appear as seel.tni; a fnvoi, it
I , , .' Position token b n.e
Untl'l. Govertniieiii when n ...n.'hi :,n.l
i "''iameil the lele.ise of t nnfwler.ite ' some siii.ess ami s,,me f.t.l.ues Tbo
I ""nmlsM.mein seized by ihe Cnltid I'etrograil War (iftlre icpsits in-iii-lir
I ."tales dining the civil war would in.,Uni,,,i ,. ui.,,i., ,.r , ....I-?....
I " Impossible for that Government to at -
ItllOllf I'llllllllll .
tll.g herself specifically tn n reiogltltlon
of the '..e.iilemie ilKht f flee move,
inent.-e.ii the high se is of dliloin.iu, up.
Icscut.ltiM'.s of ji belllgetenl.
BRITISH THREATEN REPRISALS.
I . . I'iiiiiI Miiilinrun Would llr
serious, Mi a (lie "speetiniir."
Lo.s'tsiN, Der I I'lnler ihi- title
I'aUhst Dteani of ,i Food Ihiibatgn, '
tin.
Sin rtntnr ngrees that mi Amerli'nn em.
b.irgo would have serious cousequeiues.
It would be opposed by the A met lean
f.intiei- and livestock tiadeis. si.vs the
now.sp.ipci, because n would deiitess
prneF, ami also the Inisiness peopln
would be leasonaiily frightened bv the
thought of tetallaioiy eui'uigi.es.
"Sit.pose. and it is no nuie empty
siippnsitiou, hi)h the ,siii'iilor, "thu't
the lailiaineni nt l.llawa declaied if
t AmeiUa nut ,,,, ,..ni,,re '., !.,, ,v!'J
' 1 '' . 111 ..' .,' ,rl" . "" .'"I'orlK
nt
l.m.l to the alll.,1 iountrie.s n1Hy would
put one on tier logs and pnip, when
would the iiewspjpeiH of the 'n,.,
State- get -ullblent paper to meet 'heir
ileiiiands'' '
GREGORY INTFNTKs Tn nTTtnr 'northern province, the Itumantans also
ntU 111 1"nus 1U KLTIRE. ,,,. un tin, otfi tislvi'. At two pln. es they
aie on Tr.tnsj haul, in soil, and the litis.
II Is llelleved lit- Will l.em,. ( ,. 1 hla Matenietit says to-night that thev
net A lion I .liimiiirv I . uie 'Viessliig the enemy." In thn lltizru
... , Vallev the RumanlaiiM have crossed the,
W ASIHMiTiiS', Dec. I Tlionias W" bin del nnd st led a ridge of heights on
tiiesmy, Culled Stales Atloi i.e.v .1 Jen- ii,, Ttatis Ivanlan side i,f the line
'.'.'.'i.' l!,,0",l'' lelirn tin in President' In the Dnhrudja, th" Rumanian War
Wilsons Cabinet within a shoit nine, ' Olllie announces. Gen. Sal.l.aroll at-
acioi'dlng to the linn belief of his ft lends ' talked with" gteat viole nlong thn
heie, They sa he has expressed thlK. whole fi.mt nf fotly miles, fnini Ilia
Intention lo associates lit Ihe capital and Danube to the Hunk Sea Russ.ati.' and
U. Tiixaiis wlinin lie has seen Rinnan. ans iheio aie f,ii;id b nir.iiii.tv
Another repot 1 ciiin iit to-ntulit In tli.it f.il tilled position "ti a tldge of belgb s
Ftiilieis .1. Ilene.v who will com,, bete ' ptotect, ng the Const, itirn-i 'ei nav oda line,
for the Willie Jlniise dinner December . hid I by ll.tlgai s utnl Turks
7, will suiceed Fiankl.n K. Lane ns Again and again the Russian .0 .
Secretary of thf Interior. Imandtr otdercd his troops to the ms.sj.ult,
ARMIES LOCKED
IN VAST BATTLE
FOR BUCHAREST
Mighty Struggle Rages on
IHM 31 ile Front From Po
land to Danube.
Itl'SSIAXS HAMMER
FOE UNCEASINGLY-
Fierce Attacks Launched in
Region North of Ru
manian Border.
31ACKENSE.VS FORCES
EAST OF CAPITAL
Teutons Apparently Seek
ing to Attack Hueliarest
From New Point.
J I.UM.OJC, Dec. l.The fate of Bucha
, rest and nf tin- tincunqucri'd portion of
I Rumania piobnbly will . HPttletl by
jtlic Issue of a' Rlgnntlc battle now
i-Mntf along a front of COO tnllcs.
':rom ,,'p I);i,iulj- siouhnd. from
Uucliarest to Kovrl, the troops ot
seven nations are strugRllnR.
Few battle If any in the war have.
surpuecl In mngnltudo this tremen
dous conlllet, i W),C. mii0,,H ot
roojis nnd thousands of guns arc en
gaged. Beginning two days ngo, It
lias spread like a forest fire, lighted by
the conquering sweep of the great
Teuton wave of Falkeuhayn nnd Mack
rnscn on the Kumniilun plain.
Itilsalnns In nia Klubl.
on mot of this long front the Ru.
slans Iiave put tho full weight of their
great numbers Into the fight to save,'
Rumania. On the) whole mountainous,
snow clad front of the Carpathians from
the Jablonlca Pas- In Jlungary to the
Buzeu Valley In Rumania, nearly 300
mlle they nre attacking, supported by
the Rumanian tioop.s there.
Ninth of the .labtonlca Pass, Gn.
Ilcla and Volliynla, the Teutons have
made big nttncks to countera-t ths
Ruso.Rii.nanliin effort In the Hob
rudja, Russians mid Ruiii.iiilnns have
attacked on the whole front with great
violence, ln the plains near Bucharest
the Rumanians are at many places
fighting bark and slowing up the nd
vnncliig armies of F.ilkenh.i n nnd
Mnckenscii. but these have not been
stopped.
That is the piesent situation on the
ill the
i o l e a hi et us.
A. .... .,!.. .1... t
liim ,M
tbeie mi i.ilv.irue for the
'
Germans. Austi ians, Turks and lltiiv'ar..
I'sfir's 'Primps In llncliiiresi.
llu.an troops have artlved at liueb.i-
, ilereiii'i. of the capital.
in iii.iii.g to trie i -oiogne ii:rffc All
llwhiiiige Telegi.ipli i'on.p.iii despatch
cis lien llerthclot, the Crenel! strate.
gl-t. hat, dei Id. il upon a v Ii:, noils defeure
of Ihithaiest. The capital Is to be held
at all i'oms. .in Paris was to have I .
, !fi tided tu 1911 Practically the whole
I'Hillan population has left
. Von l... kensenV hoop- are before tho
"u,,'p ''' r,'"( ' " of ""''''test. Ihe line of
Mk'"' lll'r They weie reported
'H,,",'' miles from the outer
-v,'"i tiuiu the e.ipltnl. To.dnv
tin y have pics-eil foi waul fin thei From
'u-da ' Russian statement, the Teutons
ii. n, i ui-. ..... .i.-.Miin. i.iitnaiesi 10 me
rollthe,.st
It on iilni n llelubts I'nl.en.
llu-Mi. s her. ule.iu efToi t to break lie
T.-iimi, ll,,.. in in., r,, ,,,,,,-, i. , ..,,i
, south of Klilibaba. at the northwester
tin ii gie.it t (Ton is that tin . . tug gun
have now been pushed forward to iap.
titled iniiiintaiii i lest' ilomiuatiug the
n.i.sl linpni lam line of i ommuuuatlons
..I the .l.tbloi.ii',1 legion of the Cat'
path. alls. Tin- iailro.nl tiud road Hues
in I o-s. ihe urn nut. linsi through the Jab
toiiica pass to liil aniaios-Sigct. mi the,
Hungarian plain, ale under constant flro'
f i oi ii the Russian artlllerv.
Fighting of the must tiemendotis kind
i is going mi in the mountains, all reports
ague. Depatches say the Russians aie
ii-Iiik Kient numlieis nf men. throwing
' ifgliiient after regiment, division after
'division against the Teuton positions mi
I the height- Their losses ale described
' n- stillieniliius.
Though they have been struggling dny
and night lor seventj -two hours against
this seemliigl.v inexhaustible supply of
men and shells, the Germans and Au-.
trlans of Gen. von Air. and Gen. Koevess
have counter attacked time utter llni",
raking the Russian line- will, a tie.
men. Ions lire
11 mini iiln us on tiniislic.
In tile Holllliern I 'at p.'llhhins. oll (lie
westeiu border nf .Moldavia, Rum. una s
1
I . ... ... .
-...Mi.iu..j,-'l'lii..j
