.mmt 3 M6 W
NO. 3M~. van WASHINGTON, D- IM- SATURAY, D.CE1;RR2 19.16. ONE CENT
RESIDENTS FLEE
AS JUAREZ ARMS
TOFIGHT VILLA
Fearul of Sudden Attack,
Mexicans Hasten to U. S.
Side of Line.
661 CHINESE KILLED
Ban Leader Slaughters Cuestiaa in
Chifihu -Amrics
May Be Dead.
(MY te 2Ms timmi News Seriee)
Ut Paso. Dee. .-Fearing a sudden at
task by VIlla, residents of Juarez began
Beeing to this side of the Rio Grande
today. Many merchants began sending
their stores of goods to El Paso. Gen.
Gemnaeis Is assembling all available
forcee In Juares. He announced that he
will rei t to the last.
Troops from all parts of Chihuahua. in
eluinge the remnants of the state capi
tal garrison are being concentrated In
Juarez for the expected attack.
Accordng to reports received by Fed
eral agents, M of the 1.060 ChInese who
were In Chihuahua City when it was
taken by Villa have been killed by VilIa's
orders.
Fear Asserleaps Killed.
It is feared that the six Americais also
have met death as no word has been
heard from them. When Villa captured
Torreon two years ago he killed 3io
Chinese.
Chihuahua City in being looted and
burned according to reports tonight
The famous cathedral was demollshea
by gunfire and the palatial home of
Lutl Terassas Is in ruins. The principal
residence street Is in flames.
In a taunting telegram to Gen.
Gonzales. Carranza's commander, at
Juarez today. Pancho Villa declared he
had killed "Chinos and Blanko Chinos"
after capturing Chihuahua City.
"Chin" Is the common Mexican ex
pression for Chinese. Villa had threaten
ed to kill all the Chinese who fell into
his hands.
"Blanko Chinos' is an expression of
derision Villa coined recently in referring
t., Americans.
Villa sent another message over the
military telegraph wire from Chihuahua
a few hours before. It was addressed
to Gen . Gonzales and Informed Gonzales
that Vil:a expected to attend the race
meeting which opened in Juares this
week.
Carrsaaa Farces Demeralised.
The Carransa forces In (hlhaahua
-w.ALate' apparently are scattered and
begnora!ized. Gen. Gonzales. however.
Insists that an army is being gathered
at Saus to retake Chihuahua City. He
has been making several trips between
Saus and Juarex.
Another trainload of wounded reach
ed Juares today from the Chihuahua
City battle. Most of the Carranza sol
diers were only slightly wounded. De
spite the concentration of troops at
the border town. Federal agents here
believe Villa will face but little re
sistance when he attacks Juarez.
Refugees arrivinpr on the same train
r-port that the Carranza commanders
ordered their wounded to be put to
the sword in order that their retreat
might not be hampered by caring for
them. The refugees brought no word
of the Americans In Chihuahua City.
JACK LONDON LEAVES
ESTATE OF $1009,000
Bequeaths Bulk of Property to Widow.
Divorced Wife Remembered.
we 41y the laternatiomal News Servies.)
Santa Rosa. Cat., Dec. 1.-The will of
Jack London was filed for probate heme
this afternoon. It bequeaths practically
aIl of the estate to his wife, Charmion
Kittredge London.
While it is stated the property exceeds
$10.000 in value. it Is estimated that It is
considerably in excess of 1100.000. Mrs.
London Is given not only the real estate,
Including the London ranch, but any and
all improvements, royalties, and rights In
plays, books. translations. etc.
The writer's mother, Mrs. Flora Lon
don. is given $45 a month. To Bease W.
London, his divorced wife, he bequeaths
$5, and during her single lifetime she is
allowed the use of the Oakland home.
To his daughters, Joan and Bess London.
Is bequeathed 115 a month until their mar
riage. London directs that any additional
help they may want shall not come front
the estate.
To his old manini . Jennie Prentiss,
London leaves $1 a month and directs
that she be properly housed. Mrs. Fliza
Shepard. his sister, Is left $2500 and $351
a month.
NEW WAR CREDITS SEEN.
London, Dec. 1.-An Intimation that the
British government has secured fresh
war credits In the United States running
into mIllions of dollars. Is contaIned
r in a rtel In the Morning Post today.
Teatcealso dIscusses further the
warning to American Federal reserve
banks by the Federal Reserve Board
agaInst excess Investing In foreIgn treas
ury notes.
It says that there is ground for belief
that an Interesting announcement is Im
pendIng. showing the power of Great
Britain and her allIes to command Ameri
ran credits hap Increased by many mil
lions of dollars.
SECOUD DARIUS GREE DIES.
Berne, Ind., Dec. 1.-Paul Rhorer. 19.
is dead today, a victm of his first aerial
flight. He spent more than a year build
leg a miachine. After attaining a height
of lAB feet he lost control of his plans
and it fail, crushing him benath It.
Joplia. Mo., Dec. 1.-Disappointed be
camse he, ceeld sot get an extension of
his furlough and preferring death to fur
ther sercieS ee the border, Earl P. Ray
anend, mies sergeset of Comnpany Gl. See
sad Missonri Infastry. s~~nd at
Berlin (via saF le mei. Dee, 1
4 expanationat the a g of e
Dutch steamship Bloemesyk In Ame
len water, by the German smtseas
!-63 was Issued through the Gea Oem
fets News Agency today. It sstas 0041
the ship was carrying upies which
would undoubtedly have been seixed b,
the British governmept on the grond
that they were contrahand. In order tU
Prevent these supplies from resngn the
British military authorities, the sub
rine commander sank the vessel. German,
has offered to pay indenlty.
MOOSE OUST T;R.
Perkins, Too, Doomed by In.
surgent Progressive Band.
(By the Interuaieaai News Servies.]
New York, Dec. 1.-Political foes of Cot
Theodore Roosevelt and George W. Pei
kis contemplate a reorganisation of th
Progressive' party, it was learned today,
Acting National Chairman Matthew Ha:
is to call a national conference to meet aI
St. Louis In January. Invitations are t.
be sent to Bainbridge Colby, John M
Parer. J. A. Hopkins. Judge Ben B
lindsey and others who declined to comn
ply with the wishes of Roosevelt and Per
kins and accept Charles E. Hughes am
their Presidential candidate.
Among those understood to be conduct
ing the realignment are John Robert Tay
lor, New York; E M. Ldm, Indianapolis
J. C. Hook. Tennessee; H. F. Cochens,
Wisconsin; T. H. Wanamaker, Souti
Carolina; H. H. Griffiths, Iowa; C. W,
Halbert, Minnesota; Francis J. Heoney,
California; W. H. Nichols, Vermont; J.
M. Hale, Oklahoma; C. H. Hoffman,
Michigan; C. W. McClure, Georgia; J. M
McCormick, Texas: C. 0. O'Bear, Ala=
bama; H. A. Moise. Louisiana: L. A
Treischmann. Connecticut; F. E. Ver
non, Maine; H. Landerson, Florida; J. M
Tngersoll. Idaho; Burton Vance. Ken
tucky; B. M. Fridge. Mississippi; 0. P.
Shelly. Montana, E. M. Harris, Rhode
Isaland; H. T. Moore, Utah; C. N. Kim
ball. West Virginia, and R. G. Carey,
Maryland.
John Robert Taylor, who is conducting
the preliminaries for New York State,
said today:
"We shall confer probably at Alban.
early neat month. This will be merely
incidental to the national conference a
St. Louis later in the month. Thougi
most of us wanted neither Hughes nor Wil=
son for President. we shall ask sirpPort
era of both to co-operate with us. The
majority of Progressives of the country
desire the continuance of the party. They
refused to follow some of our formet
leaders in their support of the Repubil.
can Presidential candidate, but voted fo;
the reelection of President Wilson as th
candidate most representative of Pro.
gresaive principle-'
DOPE FOR JA1LBIRDS
. SEED BYOFFICIAU
Pasted Under Thanksgiving Card Tur
keys and Magazines.
Speial to The washington eraL.
Philadelphia, Dec. 1.-A wholesale plo
to supply dope to Federal drug prisoner
in the Camden County jail was nippet
in the bud by postal inspectors and in.
ternal revenue agents today. It is eM
pected that several Important ar-ests I.
connection with the scheme will be mad4
either today or tomorrow.
According to the plans of the schemers
cocaine and heroin in large and smal
quantities were to be. sent to the prison
ers. pasted In raised postal cards ant
especially glued between the advertise
ment pages of courrent magazines.
The plot was discovered today whei
Postal Inspector Frank Wilbur Smith ant
Internal Revenue Agent Ralph H. Oyle:
conflacated magazines and Thanksgivin;
cards, which, they said, were addressec
to David Hill and Patrick Kelly, two al
leged "dope" peddlers, who are being hel
In the Camden County jail pending tria
this month.
SUES TO RECOVER GIRL
MISSING FOR 12 YEARS
Woman Declares Daughter Illegally
Kept Away from Her.
4By the Isternatienal News Service.
Hartford. Conn.. Dec. 1.-Mrs. Florenc<
Padmore instituted proceedings here t(
obtain the custody of Dorothy Brickley. e
1-year-old New Haven high school girl
whom ehe declares is her own daughter
who has been missing for twelve years.
Mrs. Padmore said she had searchec
Philadelphia, the mountains of Pennsyl
vania. Chicago and portions of Connecti
cut for the child. According to th
woman, she separated from her husbane
twelve years ago and he placed the gir
In the home of the Brickleys, agreeing t
pay for her support. Up until two yeart
ago, Mrs. Padmore said, she could get n(
trace of the Brickleys, who had movet
away from Philadelphia. Then she learn.
ed they were in Connecticut and sakc
that they claimed to have adopted the
child under an agreement signed by Mrs
Padmore in 190M. Mrs. Padmore says sh.
signed no such agreement.
$1 LAND WORTH $1,000.
Huntingdon, Pa.. Dec. 1.-The A.,. J
Haws Ganister Company, of .lohnstown
is preparing to erect a modern firebricl
plant of large capacity on Black Loi
Mountain. Billions of tons of ganistel
rock will be within easy reach of the cn
plant.
Ten years ago, with the timber takel
off, mountain land could have bees
bought for 31 an acre, but since the dic
covery of ganister and building of a ne
State highway It cannot be bought foi
31,is an acre.
SEEK TO AVERT STRIEE,
Nashville, Ten., Dec. 1.-Judge W. L
Chanibers, chairmna of the United Stat.
Board of Mediatin and Coneiliation, to.
day began arranging hearings planne t
--vert a strike on the Nashville, Chatta
-ooga and St. Louis Railroad. Presideni
Potnashd for is services of mtedia
[t after treanmen's reportg inform+:
hm a strike vote showed two-thIrds ot
the men'In favor of qunitting werk.
==ey h Hour, Baltimore
sa Olife. $1.76 seeidG trip. Slturdays
nar Sundays, p~gtemhdv
ASKS WAGE DATA
TO HELP CLERKS
Labor Department Seeks In
formaann for Guidance
of Congress.
Ethelbert Stewart chief statistician of
the Bureau of Labor, yesterday ltegan
Icanvassing business houses, corporations
and large employers of labor throughout
the country for data and statistics on
Vonditlons that have brought about wage
increases of $11,000,C within the last
twelve months.
The Information is sought to aid Con
gress in Its consideration of the Nolan 0
a day minimum wage bill and other
measures designed to bring about in
creased pay for government employes.
Questions propounded include: Number
of increases In year ended December 1;
number of employee affected; minimum
wage paid rough and unskilled labor;
number and rate of increases granted in
five years, and cost of living in com
munities of employeS affected by better
wages.
"I hope to have much of this informa
tion ready for presentation to Congress
at the short session." Mr. Stewart said
to The Washington Herald last night.
Urging Aetion by seates.
Through branch organizations of the
Federal Employee' Union. legislatures
and State assemblies will be asked to
memorialise Congress on the necessity of
granting higher wages at the coming ses
sion. This action is sought to bring di
rect-influence to bear on a number of
members who oppose higher saisris.
Much of the opposition to the Nolan 38
a-day wage bill comes from Southern
Congressmen, but the Democratic party
at its 1914 convention, went officially on
record as favoring higher wages and bet
ter living conditions for workers.
Representative John L Nolan. of Cali
fornia, will address the board of repre
sentatives of the Federal Employeo'
Union at a special meeting Monday night
at the Perpetual Building and Loan As
sociation Building, Eleventh and E
streets northwest, on the P3-a-day bill.
While the business of the meeting will be
CONTINUED ON PAGE TWO.
AUTO DANDITS SLAY
MAN IN PISTOL DUEL
Dash Through Cleveland Streets and
Escape Police.
iBy the Iaternatsiesal News Sevvise.,
Cleveland, Ohio, Dec. 1.-Auto te,
who have terrorised the city f r
nights, escaped early today after a run
ning revolvpr battle in which E. B. Mil
ler. a by-stander, was killed.
Three of the bandits entered the Pars
gon apartment and looted the place while
two "pals" remained In a waiting auto
mobile. As the bandits left the apart
ment of W. C. Richardson he opened fre.
Two patrolmen. attracted by the shoot
ing, came upon the scene just as the
automobile was getting under way.
One climbed on the running board and
the other tried to hold on behind but
both were shaken off. As the machine
dashed through the down-town streets
two more policemen joined in the chase
and opened fire. It was here that Miller,
who was waiting for a street car, was
killed.'
Since the bandits have been at work,
a saloon, four stores and an apartment
have been held up and two men kiled.
STORK IGNORES CAPITAL
FOR ONE ENTIRE DAY
No Births Reported to Vital Statistics
Bureau.
Lost-Mr. "Babe" Stork, that pro
verbial provider of babies.
Perhaps he hid himself Thanksgiving
Day, fearing that persons driven to
extremes because of the high cost of
living might mistake him for a turkey.
Perhaps he is indisposed after his cele
bration of the natiogal holiday.
hratever happened to Mr. Stork, he
is milssing from the District of Colum
bia. No births were reported here
yesterday, which is unusual for a city
the mize of Washington.
Then egain. h- might have been as
diligent as usual. but his visit was
perhaps not brought to the attention
of the vital statistics bureau.
WILLONTINUE PEACE WORK.
Chicao. Dec. I.-The work of Mrs.
Ine Miholland Bolasevain. suffrag.
leader and peace advocate will not be
permitted to lapse, so far as universal
peace is concerned. now that she is
dead.
'to said her father, John Milholano,
today when Mrs. Boimsevain's body which
he. her husband. her brother and her
sister are taking to New York for burial
arrived here from California. Carrying
on her work, she said, was the biggest
monument he could erect to her memory
anti he proposed to undertake it.
Tamaqua, Pa., Dec. 1.-As the result
of a fire which gutted the Family The
ater here last evening, entailing a loss
of $5.00. Chris Peterson, manatee, was'
Iburned to death. The fire started In a
room In the rear of the asbestos booth,
where the moving-picture dims were
stored and where Peterson bad gone on
a business mission.
FOOT~BALL CTAITH2Igg
ed ite third vicTim of the 1916 season in
this district when Boggs Campbell, 3
quarter back on the Empire A. A. eleves
died today of injuries sustained In a same
yesterday.
LEAPS TO 1DB DEATH,
PhIladelphia, Dec. 1.-Alfred 1. Beree
lord, gpo formerly lived in, this city ad:
gave acquaintances to unestn tha
he was connected with the 3*st
aobility, jumsped to hi 6 shis
the ina le.r at lhe -- 3..a
Dinky Isi of Work
For Border SoMiers
scretary Baker. after his oon
forence with the President at the
White House last night, was ap
proached by a Southern Senator
with a request for the recall' of
one of the National Guard regi
ments from the Mexican border.
"If you will hold that request
in abeyance for a few days. the
Secretary of War replied, "I am
of the opinion that you will
withdraw It."
Mr. Baker's response was tak
en to indicate that the President
and the Secretary considered
there may soon be active work
for the army on the border.
SEIZE GREEK PORT
Allies Take Piraeus When Con
stantine Announces Defiance.
Greece has dung down the gauntlet to
the entente and the entente has responded
by seising Piraeus, the port of Athene.
With the Athens army corps being
mobilised at the command of King Con
stantine and with all the royalists in the
nation rushing to the support of the gov
ernment the situation is most seriou.
A close censorship has kept all but the
most meagre dispatches from leaving the
country. The censorship Ia being con
ducted by the Greek government, which
has reassumed control of postoffices and
wire lines.
The landing at Piraeus took place im
mediately after the announcement of
King Constantine's decision that Greece
would refuse to meet the entente demand
that all her guns and ammunition be
turned over to the allies. 6
Acting quickly. Admiral Dufournet.
commander of the Franco-British fleet in
Greek waters and the man through whom
eli negotiations between the allied gov
ernments and the Greek government have
been carried on. ordered marines and
bluejackets ashore from a transport which
had just reached Piraeus.
Further detachments were landed pter.
Admiral Dufournet notified the Greek
governrnent of his intention of seising the
arms which Greece refused to give up.
Telegraph Tp
London. Dec 1.-PremIer lambre, of
Greece. has Issued a proclamatin at
advising thPoove to -remae
i in the now cis mt has arisen
between the Allies and the Greek govern
ment.
Copenhagen, Dec. 1.-As an effect of
the English blockade Swedish imports
from America in the eleven months end
ed in June, 1916, diminished 33.6 per cent.
Toklo, Dec. 1.-One hundred and thirty
young soldiers have been killed In a col
lision of a freight train with the train
on which they were being conveyed to:
Aomori. a seaport on the north coast
Norfolk. Va., Dec. 1.-The United States
government contemplates selling the tor
pedo beat destroyers Smith, Reid. Lam
son. Flusser and Preston to a South
American republic.
Berlin (via Sayville). Dec. 1.-The Rus
sian newspaper. Russkoyl Slovo, of Mos
cow, states that the Chinese government
has prohibited the exportation of coolies
to Ruaia.
Baltimore, Md., Dec. .-John Hays
Hammond. the noted mining elgineer, is
iII today at his apartment in the Hotel
Stafford, suffering from a slight attack of
stomach trouble.
Vienna. Dec. 1.-Members of German.
Spanish, Swedish. Bulgarian and Turkish
royalty. 'Who came hero for the funeral
of the late Emperor. Francis Joseph. be
gan leaving today.
London, Dec. 1.-The Rotterdam corre
spondents of both the Times and Daily
Mail telegraphed to their papers today
that German agents have arrived at The
lague and other Dutch cities on a peac
mission.
Chicago, Dec. I.-Eighty-six were killed
and forty-one injured in fifteen States
during the hunting season which endedI
yesterday, according to figures compiled
here today.
London. Dec. 1.-The first serious pro
test in Parliament against growing finan
clai burdens caused by the war will be
made when the new vote of credit is sub
mitted to commons next Wednesday. says
the parliamentary correspondent of the
Chronicle today.
Madrid, Dec. 1.-Thousands of families
have been made homeless by floOds In
Eastern Spain. At Alera the railway
station and a number of houses colts; a.
Much damage has been done at Mu a.
York. Pa.. Dec. 1.-Norman Cloud, a
chauffeur. was seriously injured and
three others slightly hurt when their au
tomobile ran Into a ditch and overturned
iate taut night.
Augustos Ga.. Dec. i.-Thomas E. Wat
son, Georgia editor, today was acquittedI
of the charge of sending obecene matter
through the mails.
London. Dec. 1.--British troupe oper
ating in German East Africa have cap
tured a considerable German fusce, and
compelled the retirement of the main
body of the enemy, according to' an of
ficial report today from Gen. Smisd, the
South African commander.
London, Dec. 1.-The male Inhabitaate
of Itasselt and Lenays. Beilum, be
tween tha ages of 17 and fi0 end alsoi girls
and women possessing sewing Bachines
are to be removed to Germany, says a
Ruiser dispatch frorm Amsterdam today.
Hempstead, N. T.. Dlec. 1.-On the prom
iso of John Lubetsky. 110 years old, that
he would curb his "quarresome disposi
tioni," his wife. Pauline, %S, conssnted to
take hIm beck today.
Harrisburg, Pa.. Dec. L.-EII G. Mim.,,
iged 50, commstted suicitd ody by bang
ta himselft to a tiee in Rier Ps jast
namesita Gae- Beumbakeh'a sesin
WILSON TO IT
ARMS EMBARGO
Opposition of Army Heads to
Helping Carranza Declared
Overruled.
President Wilson at confereOcs held
separately yesterday with SscretarY Of
State Lansing an, Secretary' of War
Baker seriously considered lifting tipe
embero on the exportation of arms to
Mexico. The active heeds of the army
offered vigorous opposition while admin
istration leaders expressed the view souh
a step was necessary to prevent Car
ransa from being completely crushed by
Villa.
It was admitted if Villa carried his
conquests eastward into the Tample. dis
trict an International tangle most em
barrassing to the United States would
arise. Tampico is the source from which
Great Britain, France and Russia are
now getting their main supply of fnel
oil. England i said to have already
given notice that she will expect the
United States to keep these oil felds
open.
Villa, Intoxicated with regained power.
is expected to be obdurate and the ad
ministration Is said to be anxious to
avoid the necessity of directly negotiat
ing with the bandit leader. whom a di
vision of the army was sent into Mexico
to capture eight months ego.
Notwithstanding the objections raised
President Wilson is said to favor giving
Carransa permission to buy arms and
ammunition In the United States in quan
tities limited to the Immediate needs of
the situation in Chihuahua.
SIlseo Arredondo. Carranza's ambassa
dor, called at the State Department early
yesterday and protested that Villa's suc
ceases were entirely due to a shortage of
ammunition in Gen. Trevino's cojnniwe
He charged that repeated requests had
beep made to this government for war
suipplies and refused.
The Mexicap official made no effort to
deny that Villa and his bandit army had
made steady progress during the last few
weeks, hut said the last official reports
received at the Mexican Embassy told
that fighting was still m progress in Chi
huahua City. He said these reports were
several days old.
MARRIED, LIVED, DIED
'DENEATH HIS STATION'
Disinhefited Son of British General
Succumbs in "Flop House."
tly the latenestissil News Sevisne,)
.Chicage. Dec. I.-Perey H1hnett. eldOet
son of -ae. Higdon Highnett, of Igs
land and agraduate of Oxfor, died to
day In a "flop house" bere. Six other
derelicts will carry him to a grave pro
vided by the city.
Highnett was disinterited by his father
because he married a girt whom the fam
ily regarded as "below his station." He
came to America, leaving her behind and
never was able to save enough to send
for her. That was fifteen years ago.
Today the six pallbearers sent a mes
sage to the dead man's parent. It read:
"Your son, Percy Highnett died today as
he had married and lived-beneath his
station." They signed it "Six Just IUke
Him.'
YOUNII WOMAN LEAPS
FRIM SPEEDING AUTO
Tells of Attack by "Chance Acquaint
ance" in Big Car.
Special to The Wshington Heraid.
Philadelphia. Dec. 1.-An attack In
an automobile by a chance acquaint
ance. with whom she had been riding.,
caused Mrs. Anna Rodgers. a pretty
woman, about 25 years old, to jump
from tb e car early today at Belmont
and Wyalusing avenues. She was found
lying unconc Bous on the sidewalk by
a motorman of a Forty-fourth street
car. He Informed the police, who sent
the woman to the West Philadelphia
Homeopathie Hospital. There is a deep
wound on her forehead. and the phy
nicians believe her skull is fractured.
She said while out with some girl
friends yesterday she met by chance
a man with a car. They stopped in
several cafes and finally rode through
the park. Mrs. Rodgers said she finally
asked him to stop the car and let her
out. He refused. aocordir)g to her
story, and told her if she wanted to
get out. she would have to jump.
WILL HALT EIGT HOUR LAW.
Chicago, Dec. .-That the Adamson
eight-hour law will Not be enforced on
roads in Chicago territory until after it
has been passed upon by the Supreme
Court was indicated by Federal Judge K.
M. Landis hore today.
After , " sultation with United Slates
District Attorney Clyne and attorneys for
the railroad s he announced that he would
issue a restraining order December 4.
SEES U-BOAT BINE STRAWER
Newport News. V.. Dec. L.-The Dutch
steamer Veebergen, upon her arrival here
early today from Rtotterdam. reported
seeing a Glerman submarine sink the Nor
wegian steiner Roesavaid off the Scilty
Islands.
The 1.eebergen was halted by the sub
marine and compelled to take the Nor
wegian crew on board, The sailors were
later landed at St. Michaeis.
15,000 All VICTIMS,
New York, Dec. 1.--rom 15,11 to 20,000
of the city's 300,45 school children are.
suffering from heart disease, his stats-.
msent was made yeeterday by te recent
ly formed Association for the Preven
tion and Rteief of Heart Disease, In an
nouncing an organied effort to combat
the malady.
ISBTOL IN REBON 0F?.
Witkeebarre. Pa.. Dec. i.-Caught In
the folds of a iset, a revoiver secreted
in a bed at the home of Mrs. Minnie
Oliver. exploded yesterday morning whbile
Mrs. Oliver was reemy the sheets and
Matirges The bshs kangedmentlas
*a Wams aime
A3RZ3DM KAY UCOYU.L
Tarrytown. t. Y..- Dec. 1.-Joha D.
Archbold is making his night for life
with the same courage and tenactty
that won him his millions. This after
noon hi. son. John F. Archbid, de
dlared that Mr. Archbold was "holding
his own," and tonight members of the
household said that Mr. Archbold wan
conceded an even chance for recovery.
It was declared that the only fears
entertained by the five physicians in
attendance concern the strength of Mr.
Archbold's heart. He is 98 years of
age and it is considered possible that
his heart may not stand the strain.
MAY SAVE BABIES
Germ of Infantile Paralysis De
cdared Finally Discovered.
(Oy the Nteruadtmi News Sgse.)
Rochester. Minn.. Dec. L-In the lab
ratories of the famous Mayo Clinic here
a certain micro-organism has been din
oweered which Is believed by investigators
In the department of pathology to be the
Causative agent of infantile paralysis
the dread disease which last summer
killed or cripled nearly 2UO0 AmericAn
babies.
With customary scientific reserve. Dr.
K. C. Roeenow who is in charge of the
experiments will not yet assert positively
that the germ which he and his associ
ates. Dr. E. B. Towne. of Boston, and
Dr. 0. W. Wheeler, of New York. have
succeeded in isolating. is the germ of in
fantile paralysis but in what he terms a
".preliminary note" that has been present
ed to the State Medical Society it is
shown that innumerable experiments dur
ing the past few months, all point in this
direction. If it be true that the agent
of the disease has thus been found and
catalogued-and there in no real doubt
in the minds of the scientists acquainted
with the experiments that this has been
done-then half of one of the greatest
battles In modern medicine has already
been won,
There remains. of course, the important
task of developing a serum or a vaccine
or perhaps both. with which immunity
may be established In human beings, but
once the germ has been tagged this at
once becomes possible. It Is entirely
within the rank of probability that before
another summer comes the world may
hear that infantile paralysis has been
deinitely relegated to the category of
such diseases as diphtheria. smallpox and
other readily controlled afflictions.
With the horror of last summer fresh
In the public mirnd no more important
piece of news could be presented to
Americans.
Because of the high hopes which the
discovery of some mistake or broken linK
in the present chain of scientific evidence
would dash, those interested in the ex
pertiments at Rochester are especially re
strained In making announcements.
CEANZ. UIA.A
SVERNENOINA1D
Mexico's First ReaHy Representative
Congress Now in Session.
(By the Isternatieal News Servlee.
IAredo, Tex.. De. I.--Governor Gu.stavq
Espinose Mireles has been nominated un
animously to succeed himself as gnreror
of Coahuila by the convention of the Lib
eral Constitutionalist party, held in Salt
Illo. There was no other candidate for
the office. Mireles was appointed by Car
ana two years ago and in in full syn
pathy with the First Chief and his pol:
cies.
Queretaro, Mex.. Dec. 1.-Two hundred
and forty-two Mexicans of all ranks.
comprising the republic's ilrst real repr
sentative congress. met here today, with
First Chief Carranza presiding. The con
gress was called ostensibly to revise and
interpret the constitution of si7.
Luis Manuel Rojas, a lawyer of Mexico
City. was elected president of the con
vention and Gen. Candido Aguila, the
fclen minister. vice-president.
Senor P&nI. one of the Mexisan commis
sioners who signed the PIat.col at At
lantic City. N. J.. had a long con
ference with Gen Carranza - oer the d-cu
mont. but no offictal statement was forth
reining.
SEARCH LUMBER CAMPS
FOR MURDER VNESS
Man Tells Story that May Free John
Edward Teiper.
41By the Isternatiesal News serviee.I
Buffalo. N. Y.. ie. I-The scene of the
Teiper murder trial vilfted today from
the drab courtroom to the lumber camps
of Northern California. The fate of John
Edward Teiper, accused of murdering his
mother in order to benefit by her will.
may hang on whether the attorneys su
ceed in finding in those camp a "swarthy
fellow" who, they claim. committed the
crime.
Teiper's attorneys sprung their coup to
day. They produced Robert Romero, of
Buffalo. who recently returned from the
Far West. and who gave to them a curi
ously complicated tale, the unravelment
of which may acquit the young man.
Romero said that he befriended a "poor
devil'' In Ne. Pece Idaho. on March 9.
l916, who told him that he and a pal of
his saw the Telper murdera committed
and that John Edward hsad no part In it.
Edward O'Mally, chief of Teiper's de
fense, said that the mysterious personage
Is now thought to he cocking In a lumber
camp near Fort Bragg. Cal., and search
is now being made for him there.
EUUTERB NE00T TWO 0IBI8.
Vendocla, Ohio, DeC. l.-Two daughter.
of flats Representative Di. C. Morris, of
Van West County, were shot by rabbit
bunter. near here after their automobile
had run down and killed a hunting dog.
The girls wil recover.
Wilber and Sams Hiller were arrested
on a charge of shooting to kill.
New Yark. Dec. L.-eo apprehensive
have they become over the repsaied sub
marine warnings sent out by aled crets
es off the New Jersey cost, that several
underwrlters today deinsed to accept
rieks for shipping to the United King
dont, Others advanced Sheir, sen to 21-4
ti pee eat. 6de Aimeegat ag Us.
kamam as niemiB... .ana.
RUSSIA BATTLES
OVER 250 MILES
TO SAVE AWES
Coutess Les Ahe R.ube
at Teutons in Efort to Re.
heve Bucharest Defenders.
GREATEST DRIVE OF WAR
Petrtad Gaim dm aaI Caim
Alfeady Made n Cafpadhima
Fighting U.
<3y the t.te..n..a 3.m. Se.
Amerdam De. L- e3m
have arrived at Behnefto "e " "
Rumanian" in defense of th. osula
according to dispatches beom thaema
where the report is priated in e Ga.
Lette.
Interest in the Rumaniaa empeAgnim is"
night centered upon a gigantie lest-ma.
ute attempt by Russia to mve he- Beft
ally from being *swallowed up in the
vortex of the multiple Teuton whiw
advance. Along a battle treat of ast
260 miles from the much-fought-for T'
Parr down to the northeastern to et he
Transylvanian Alp., countlear legins of
Muscovites are being hurled inte inesup
log onslaughts. The object is to mash a
wide gap in the Teuton Carpathisan tet.
rush southwestward through the pagen
to Maramaros-Saiget. Important Ham
garlan railway city. thence to overrun the
Hungarian plain,
The success of th pla, titanie in out
line but difficult of execution at this time
of the year. woui compel the Teetoam,
according to Ruseo-Rumniasn calculation.
to turn back post-baste from Western
Rumania to save the entire eastern frout
from being flanked.
In this new huge offensive. which ha.
been raging without pause for forty-eight
hours and is heightened to ever greater
fury as the hours roll by bringing fresh
Rusean re-enforcements. the Russan
war office claims gains. while both Berlin
and Vienna assert that the minor "loomeI
advances" ecored by the Car's fogcee re
In no proportion to the terrific lomes t
blood inflicted by the Teuton dme.
Greatest usteet e Waar.
The Austriea iar 0eme wseaks Of *"reat
mamee of men' being used by the Rms
sam in their attache "fler the relief of
the mch-barraesed an. A wre
Iemo dimpatche Bermi let i est night
repored endless Meueovite retforcementa
arriving on the Carpathian front. There
eeem no room for doubt that this
eleventh hour attempt to save Rumania
is the mc1t tremendous offensive attenpt
ed In this war and that Its full momen
tum has not yet been reached.
Meanwhile, as if discounting this po.
erful onslaught and its bearing en the
campaign in Rumania. the armies of
General Von Faikenhayn and Field Iar
ehal von Mackensen are steadily =emash
Ing ahead, the former from the north and
west, the latter from the south toward
Bucharest.
Mackenne's Danube army. according to
Festerdae a afternoon Berlin report. "has
forced its way across the NiaSiow low
lands anid is approaching the course .>f
the Argeshu (Arges) In the direction of
Bucharebt."
The Niaslov River flows thirteen and a
half miles south of the capital. Bucb
rest itsIf admitted yesterday evening of
ticially that "violent engagements" have
taken place on the Niaslov to Comena. It
does not yet admit-the lose of that town
(ixteen miles south of Bucharest) offi
cially reported by Berlin yesterday, to
have been captured.
Mq, o Attaefilag Now.
The Arges River which the German war
office says Mdackensen is approaching.
is seven miles from Bucharest and only
two and a half miles southwest of the
capital's outer fortifications. This give
rise to the conclusion that the bombard
ment of Bucharest will be well under
way when this is read.
'he Ill-fated Rumanian-Oreotva army.
which last week was taken between two
Teuton argnies and of which nothing
definite has been heard since was
no ntioned again in yesterday's Berlin
report. "Cut off from their arny." says
the statement. 'the Rumanian troops are
trying to escape their inevitable fate by
folowing a variable course." Three hun
dr.-d prisones were taken by them from
tho-e of King Ferdinand's forces which
ee driven from the Campulung and
Pitesci oisitions. In the northweetern
part of the kingdom, they are valiantly
battling to make good their retreat. Rear
guards. hurriedly entrenched behind the
various rivers that form natural
obstacles to Falkenhaynes advance are
again and again taking the offensive.
only to be crushed by the Teuton tidal
wave. Rich booty is falling to the in
vaders as they sweep southeastward. The
heroic defense rendered by the crumbl
ing Runanian forces te resuming In what
the German war office describes as
"enormous looses."
AFTEE AIGE SXTGGLES.
Chicago. Dec. 1.-Agents of the roted
States Treasury Department are in Chi
cago today on a bunt for evidence of a
ring of emugglere who are eald to have
brought Into thie country thown.ende of
dollar, worth of aigret and goura feeth
Iprtonof theme feathers bee been
prohibited for some time, but espidn
has beet aroused by the fact that the
eupply here be, not diminished vlelbly.
PKEU OF TUEEEYS tNUOLD.
Chicago. D~ec. 1-Great ple o etnmks
giving turkeye. unold. end eeneite
from dealer. that egge were being left
on their hands today, paid eleqeent
tribute to the Chicago hoeeewite's bleur
at the high~cost of living-the boeostt.
That lower price. would prevail ehertly
for both turkeye end eggs wae the gee
dIction of local retailer.-.
E SUITLI ACROS 30EDR.
El Paso. Texa. Dc. L.-Jueaee mu'
chante, anticipating the eivacetien of
tecity before the Viflistas, thie after
noon began shipping goode acrees the
river to El1 Ps ow fearing wholeeele loot
lng. lilx thot acnd seeks of See- sag
twenty-four ei rioads ot othr stee woe
lemeght me..
