ALBUQUERQUE MORNING JOURNAL.
CITY
CITY
EDITION
EDITION
J n,n- ' 3-
llfilHI CASE
BIS HUE
IHPEFUL VIEW,
Albuquerque Morning Journal, Saturday, December 2, 1916.
IS TIE BELIEF
Impression Prevails in London
That Safe Conduct Will Be
Granted to New Austro-
' Hungarian Ambassador,
PRECEDENTS MAY EXIST,
DECLARES LORD CECIL
British Minister of War Trade
Intimates That There May
Be a Way to Settle the Mat
ter Satisfactorily,
Daily by Carrier or Msll.70.
Month. 8iiiKle Copies, M
CLARK IN Fill
OF WHIR IIP
IF OTHER HOUSE
MEMBERS ARE
Speaker Says If Congress
Wants to Clean the Legis
lative Slate and Go Home
March 4 He Is Willing.
SUGGESTS MANY REFORMS
FOR HURRYING BUSINESS
Would Eliminate Useless Ora
tory, Abolish the Congres
sional Record and Introduce
Voting Machines,
LOU TO FRAWCE
Al ENGLAND BY
MORGAN & CO. IS
OFF FOR PRESENT
Abandonment of Plans of New
York Financiers to Buy Short
Term Treasury Bills of Al
lies Announced,
(V MORNING JOURNAL tPtCIAU LIAtCD WIRII J fsv MORNINa JOURNAL RRhCtAL LIAIID WIRII
London, Dec. l. a wrong impres- Washington, Dec. 1. spcas.er
ion prevails here that Great Rritain 'Clark said today that if congress want
will grant the request from Washing-P(j to clean the legislative slate and
ton for a reconsideration of the re- jKO home next March 4 he gladly would
fusal of a safo conduct for Count j j0in i ft movement to eliminate use
less oratory hy cutting oown gaiiery
space and abolishing the Congres
sional Record and to Introduce voting
machines.
"It isn't difficult to see that the
galleries and the record cause an
Adam Tarnowskl von larnow, nu
recently was appointed Auslro-Hun-jfurian
ambassador to the United
States.
Although stating that he had not
vol een the Washington request, JjOi'rt
WARNING OF THE FEDERAL
RESERVE BOARD IS CAUSE
Other Steps Are to Be Taken
to Obtain the Funds, It Is
Reported, but Details Are
Not Given Out,
i the around that they put their
treasuries at. the- mercy of American
PaiiKois who could renew or not, as
they kmw fit.
It was stated officially that no
government had approached the Mate
department in any way concerning the
notes, either U-fore or alter the re
serve hoard's nnnouno. ment,
OFFICERS MAY COOL OFF
AND DISPOSE OF CASE
fT MORNIN I JOURNAL RPICIAL LIARIO WIRII
Washington, lec. 1. Am lesign.i
tions of army officer can come to the
war department only through the reg
ular military channels, it will bo sev
eral days at least before any commun
ication from the officers of the
Twelfth New York infantry, reported
to have resigned esterduy,' will reach
Washington. Meanwhile,' officials of
the department decline to pass any
formal opinion upon the case.
only in tho event there was a con
spiracy In concerted action, It was
said, would court mart la Ih be likely to
follow. At pny rate, it was explained,
the case must be dealt with first by
Ma.lor General O'Ryan and then per
haps hy Major General Funston be
fore the department could become in
volved. It Is rather expected that the
whole matter can he adjusted satisfuc
torily In Texas after the officers con
cerned have had time fully to con
sider their action,
A .statement today shows that since
the mobilization in the border states,
President Wilson has accepted the res
ignation of 450 national guard officers
who desired to leave the service for
personal or business considerations.
RUSSIANS JOIN
RUMANIANS IN
VAIN EFFORT TO
SAVE BUCHAREST
Spite of the Stubborn Re
sistance Offered, the Teu
tonic Troops Continue to
Move on the Capital,
NOTHING Ol-TK'IU.
HRcni:i r;i
(T MORNI NO JOURNAL RPICIAL UIMIO WIRR)
New York. Dec. 1. The abandon
ment by J. P. Morgan & Co. of the)
proposed sale of u limited amount of
short term l'.ritish and French treas-;
ury bills at the request of tho entente
allied governments, announced here;
mri:iv ennie hs a surnri.SG to the fi-;
i.'.i . Th onnniineo. : presented
am-,, wo....... ,. l-nofflcial
ment, issued irom win ,imun """ , Hn(j
stated that the action oi ino lvriusn
HAS
X. ITNSTON
San Antonio, Tex. Iec, 1. Major
General Kunston said tonight he had
not received official information of
the resignation of any of the officers
of the Twelfth New York Infantry, and
did not know whether any would be
FIGHTING DOBDUDJA
BECOMES MORE INTENSE
Violent Attack Is Launched
Along tiie Whole Front; Re
awakening of Activity Re
ported in Galicia,
Y MORNINO JOURNAL RFICIAL LIAIKO W(RI
. Desperately the Rumanians, prob
ably aided by Russian troops, are
defending the southern and western
GERMANY ADMITS
SINKING MARINA,
CAUSING DEATH
OF AMERICANS
Communication to This Effect
Is Received in Washington,
but Details in Case Are Still
Very Meager,
NO ACTION EXPECTED IN
THE IMMEDIATE FUTURE
If Vessel Not in British Trans
port Service Kaiser Is Will
ing to Acknowledge Error
and Settle Case.
MORN I NO JOURNAL PtCtA) LIARIO WlRflt
Washington, Dec. 1. Following 1 1)0
receipt "today "'of a Coium uuici.t Ion
from the Gorman government adinit-
that a Herman iuibniniine tiupe-
i ii.. , .1.., i nag
upi'iom i.e., " u.m. .""!,,, , ,.,. uhill M,.na
Icutonlo advance continues to press , , . ,,,,, , f Americans. Sec
retary Ijinsing conferred with Presi
dent Wilson ami It wns decided that
VILLA LOADING j
CHIHUAHUA cur
ON CARS; ',','ILL
HAUL IT AWAY
Bandits Preparing to Haul
Away Two Trains of Loot
From Stores and Private
Homes of State Capital,
DEATH TO FOREIGNERS IS
DECREE OF OUTLAW CHIEF
Pancho Makes Vitriolic Speech'
in Hidalgo Plaza; Chinaman
Tells Lurid Tale of Manner
in Which lie Escaped, '
V MORNI NO JOURNAL RKC.AL LBARBO WIRt)
Juarez, Mex , Dec. 1. Villa, bandit
were reported to he loading two
more closely on tho Rumanian capital
tifoin tho northwest, rnofflcially, It
ic reported In London that Russian
troops have arrived In Uuehurest to
tho hard-pressed Rumanian
advices from tho border!
that members af other military
OI Uitlll(1l YCIV l I'illlllg It'l IllOlir. I . :.,
U . .... n ... i t ... .... ,.e ... ....l,. Iti ........A .in find mnnnv " tho ! ifmn.h irnvern ment s was taken addressed to tho officers Involved and!
KOtiei'l l tell, Ul VIII U"C, u, KB1UI W.I..-HO .11 u ......... ..v. , . U n " ; 1 1 f OI'CCM
anclng (iernian
armies In Wal
ucharest, is rc
says the Rn
: '. 1 u ...... 1 r, ih finnr ur. nnslmr and the nf ferine had been perfected. 'iblc for tho alleged trouble and that mutilans continue to offer resistance
toZxmtorVm circumstances ' We i wasting time. And everybody knows Other plans to finance the pressing; the offending of any of the. officers , The Rumanians apparently a.e on or
lavors imoer any iiii,uiiiuiuub. '. , ..,, ., ,.t .i... iiitiuli ..ml French ltov-, was not Intent onu t una slated n : iwi.r ilo. lin. nf II, n Aiuohiii mm Pet-
ror tno ex- mere are any iiuiiiim-i in i hi,i i-r-CT,i. .. m-um ... , i -
mH eivllilin oris- ! Wno til K tor ttie Hecora a glial uesi. ci -lime, lis n:n-uu nic U1...V, ...... ... .... n,,...-, ,,,,.,., ,,,,,,1
inn civilian pi is . " ,u vet fi.,- .. v,n., tim Tu.nirn. v.,,.. vrU umu n, i,,,-..i
more man is necessary. . , uimemiuuu, " ""j r...
A record is not necessary. Hie reached a detinue siage. a memm .-. m review nan inn m en oaijuiicu 10 una near tii.it river, r lent .Marsnai
on .Mackensen- Ileiiln reenttin, lias
ivn an army iicioks tho Niaslov
disiMissI n ir the question with tne Asso- j speaker declared today as ne pausou ollt 0f reijard for the attitude anopioo , ni k un-ru iu . i-. i...s,...i ui, -
" . , . i,i. 1 1 11 i,iu ofrnrt. in niiilinn n nlim where- , . ..... . .. .1.. j, i nations for the good of the set-vice. Progress for the adv
!' "r.r'r" "-J,:. 7 inhedone in n(?'i.n in. uyii,e..uv .Another report, no, accepted as of- and Aust ro-1 . unga rlan
. " "" ."..' " ., . -ivti-.thr loMlatlvei davs. "Any board. THO surprise was neigme. ; fl(.ia, ,)tlt ll(,liovod , ,,p ,la,1Ci KHld lachla and south of I!
T . .. .. XuZ. fi-'. .ho. t iii.l'fi, tho. the Fnllerles are full the i by the fact that all arrangements lor u misunderstanding was respond- ported by Merlin, which
can discuss ana arrange ior tno ex
change of military
oners and other similar matters with
rpntral Lowers, but on account ot
their actions ir this war we
. eVnnot i IRnglish house of commons has none. of the .Morgan firm informally stated: tho commanding officer when he or- v,
o iTinele1 journal Is kept. Dr. Johnson lined! that no other plans had been forma- j dered a second review and that Major jn
) to write after the day's proceedings i lated, but it was learned from reliable , (Jeneral u'lVvan, commanding the dl- ,
over He simply recorded who i sources that tne denial una oeen ih.kio vision, ueiuea me n iinii uiai no u.
and which side thev were on. as a matter of policy. Tho plans un-i liherately left the- field with his staff,
be expected to grant them
favor.
"The other phase concerns a friend
ly neutral, like the United States, to
,.r ..r... ...,,1., St ...,.. unl f-.J.
r:; i;.ii 'pirt
. .. .V". ". .:..... i started to make a fight for
j were
! spoke
"I haven't much hope, though,
of
tho
been
that i Her contemn atlon. it Is Is llitimaieii
if 1 1 uL'il I invn lve n. larce amount of "dollar
smaller i credits" available to Great
galleries and no record, so I won't mot to her tiller any.
........ i. n thorn iu hnnn thnt the: Iiiitish Institutions and private in
mil rnlls ! vestors still retain large amounts
...in v.o oK.tiiMhoH I. la urrhnle. nnrl j American securities although they
a time-waster." ' I have been largely mobilized by
ia f;ivnr reduelnir I Itritlsh treasury. There have
the house from 4 3 5 to 300 members no cancellations or orders for war sup
and holding it to that number. I plies or other material to the coun-
Mlnorlty Leader Mann today ex- tries of tho entente allies, according to
pressed the view and offered figures! the bankers acting for those Interests,
i oi.ho.nntintn it thnt under nn eir- and no diminution of orders is ex-
may elapse before it is taken, as the (.llmHlam.Pa (,0id the democrats have prctcd.
French government must be consult- nl.,t, i,v in "he next house, but there ! The Uritish government continues
ed " iwns a. chance of the republicans to I to hold largo reserves of gold in Can
It became known on .Novemlser i'J , have 218 members.
To grant safe conduct to Count
Tarnowskl- for which there are prece
dents, may fall within the latter
phase, hut U Is a difficult question
about which it ivotiU be dangerous to
prophesy.
"Thti American , request has been
presented directly to Viscount Grey,
secretary of state of foreign affairs.
Early action Is expected, but some time
before the second review was finished.
A detailed report of the incident Is
liritaln, if i expected to be filed with (ieneral Kun
ston before uny action is taken.
TEN MEMBERS OF DIET
SQUAD LOSE WEIGHT
(V MORNIN9 JOURNAL RPKCIAl LKARCD WIRK1
Chicago, Dec. 1. Ten of the dozen
dieters were lighter when weighed to
day, although the holiday meals were j
slightly more templing than those of ;
previous days of tho test on which i
iwlauds, which would be approach
ing the Argesliu Iu tho dlrei tlon oi !
Bucharest.
TctilMiu Take Prisoners.
Advancing southward from the!
rampuliing-Piteshtl region, the Ten-:
ton invaders have taken prisoners and j
cannon and much other equipment
from the retiring Rumiinians. In the
fighting reported in the latest com
muniques. I'.eiiin says the Rumanians
lost more than L'.sao prisoners and,'
twenty-"ne ciin non. I
no action would lie taken hy tho
American government until It could
l e definitely established whether the
Marina was a private vessel, or a bel
ligerent transport.
In the note, (lerniany slated that,
the commander of the submarine
which sank l he .Marina had reported
that he took the vessel for a trans
port and asked the I nited Slates lor
information on tills point. Count von
Iti'inslorff, the tiennan tuiibaxxudor,
called at the stale department during
tiie day, and aim. sought this Informa
tion, 'lie was told by Secretary Lan
sing that the I lilted Slates was not
yet in a position to answer the in
quiry, but would do so as quli kly as
possible.
o Action Soon.
As a lesult of the developments of
the day, II was Indicated hy off!, lain
that no ai'tloii could lie expected In
;the Immediate future on the Marina
I case, .admittedly one of the two most
i serious pending between the United
I States and ticrmany. The other la
(that of the Hrlttsh liner Arabic, sunk
in the Mediterranean.
(lerniany, it Is understooii, is reatiy
to acknow edge and make Hirers or
Tho Russians continue aggresHlviy , M,Hei,irnt, If It is established thnt tho
that the United States had sent notes .)nat ne was not worrying about the
to Great Rrltain and France request- ( speakership and thought it would be
in? reconsideration by those govern- j much more fun to remain on his pres
ments of their refusal to issue a safo ent job.
(onduct through their blockade 'lines
1 trrwL thTinaCi WORKS-SMOOTH SCHEME;
able right of sovereign nations to ex
change ambassadors, and insisted that
a third rate nation, even in war time,
ms not justified .in denying that
light.
i they had formerly gained in weight
He further sald'adaand the more remote colonies, and j The squad Is attempting to prove that
IVASHIXtiTOV AWAITS HKPI.Y
OP KNTEXTK I.OVKP.X.MKXTS
Washington, Dec. 1. The state de
partment, is awaiting with quiet con
fidence the response of the entente
Bovernments to its presentation of
reasons why Count .Tarnowskl, the
newly appointed American amliassa
dor and his suite, should be given safe
Conduct on his mission to the United
Slates. Although the department did
MAKES SMALL FORTUNE
flY MORNINO JOURNAL SPECIAL LCAflco WIRKI
New York, Dec. 1. Confession that
he and others working with him had
these reserves, it is believed, win oo ,
employed to meet Immedlato exigen-j
cies, including stabilization of ex-
change. 1
The announcement was contained I
in the following statement:
40 cents a day is a sufficient, amount
of money to spend for attractive and
nutritious food. Tomorrow's menu:
Breakfast: Stowed pears, hominy,
toast, butter, coffee.
Lunch: Codfish balls, Philadelphia
! their offensive against the Ausiro
; Herman lines from the Carpathians to
I southern Transylvania. Berlin states
the Russian attacks, which are de
flated to have been along a front of
1Mi miles, from Jahlonllza to Kedzl
Va.sarhclp, resulted only in small ad
vantages, which are declared not to
lie commensurate with the cost III
men and uinniuiilllon. Petrogrnd ad
mits a repulse southwest of Vaknrkii.
In the Carpathians, but records the
"We. have -been instructed hy the reiisii, mvau
Itritlsh and French governments to
withdraw their treasury bills from
sale.
"We have neordingly expressed to
those institutions and investors which
had already plaed orders with us for
obtained between $40,0(10 and $50,000 j these securities the wish to be re
butter, apple dumpling,
vanilla sauce, tea.
Dinner: Vegetable soup, braised
Jieef, buttered lice, slewed onions,
chocolate Junket, sugar cookies.
The test will bo finished next Tues
day nltht
by defrauding insurance companies
through the destruction of old auto
mobiles was made today by Frederick
Cw. Stroebel. former manager of a
leased from the obligations to deliver
and thev havo been good enough to
accede.
'This action is because, as explained
Brooklyn motor car company, accord- by the British chancellor of tho ex
Ing to the district, attorney's office, chequer and by the exchequer and by
Stroebel pleaded guilty a week ago to the French minister of finance, these
making false insurance claims upon governments desire to show every re
a car which had been damaged twice, jgard to the federal reserve board, a
Stroebel told him. Assistant District i government bodv of which the secre-
Attorney Weler said. that, the plan rol
InnAflmiPAMCADrj
UUIV I ilUnliu HIIL
ASSURED 0. S. IS
not make- a sneelfie leouest for such i lowed was to gel possession ui a wo.
safe conduct, preferring to point out ! out. automobile, repair it, obtain new
hut is regarded as an inalienablelliocn.se plates, have the car insured
tight rather than to appear as seek- j fr as. large a sum as possible, and
inn a favor, It was felt that the post- tllen Durn
linn taken by the British government! nnkn ni unii itw m
when it-M-a,l secured the re- WILSON'S PLURALITY IN
imp or tne contederate commission- i
erg seized by the United States dur
the civil war would make it im
Pnssible for that government particu
larly to attempt to deny the right of
J neutral state to maintain full and
tree diplomatic relations with a bcl
ngerent state.
It is assumed, however, that Great
Britain may base its acquiescence in
M18 Cas on u riesii'p tn Hfpnnimodate
COLORADO
!tr MORNINU JOURNAL PltfAL LIAIIO WIRh
Denver, Dec. 1. President Wilson's
plurality in Colorado at the recent
election was 76, SOS, according to the
official count of the state canvassing
hoard completed late today. This fig
ure is arrived at by showing the dif-
a friendly neutr'i without com! ! "1
me. niKiM'fi i ... ...-
that of the highest republican elector.
Thomas R. Munson of Sterling,
Colo., the highest democratic elector,
received 178,816 votes. C. '. Trews,
of Denver, the highest
elector, received 102,308.
"jilting herself specifically to a recog
nition of the academic right of free
movements on tho high sea of diplo
matic representatives of a belligerent.
OLD REGULATIONS HOLD
UP OFFICERS' SCHOOL
"ORNINd JOURNAL aPICIAt. tt.HD WIRII
Leavenworth, Ivans., Dec. 1. In
duction courses planned to begin at
"i Leavenworth today for 4,10 new
ILLINOIS LIVESTOCK
EMBARGO IS LIFTED
tary of the treasury and the comp
troller of the currency are cx-officio
members.
Payable iu Xew York.
"We may add that the sale in lim
ited amount of these treasury bills
payable In dollars in iNew York, have
never been an essential part of the
iilllnd trovnrnnient'M financial llbins.
IS 76508'lml bavo for some time been under
consideration won a view ut mriiir.ii-ing-
a credit medium that would ne
coinmod ite tho American banking de
mands for an instrument of short ma
turity and of such limited volume that
the government could always under
take to lay down gold In New York
sufficient to meet the matured bills.
"It Is believed further that these
bills would have furnished at the end
of the war excellent measure of pro
tection to the American financial sit
uation, inasmuch as theso steadily
maturing obligations of the foreign
governments would have tended to
prevent heavy drafts of gold from this
market."
An informal statement was made
by a member of the Morgan company
that no other financial plans havo
been formulated in place of the ones
abandoned.
republican
tRY MORNINO JOURNAL RMCIAL LIARtl) WlRl)
Springfield, III., Dec. 1. Orders lift
ing restrictions on the shipment of
cattle from all public stock yards In
Illinois were issued here tonight by
Dr. O. E. Dyson, state veterinarian,
following advices that cattle at Kan-
commiui.tn.,,i c..... i;...,.n,....u af
Ot I- "'"it:tl 3.'. null lllllllt Iftllin ...
y1 United States army, were deferred
Khi80 "f 11,1 old military regulation
"'en congress will be asked next
J to modify. In the meantime,
'.t Tln:, ias City suspected of having foot and
fiii.ii i ".' (M i lit-in t tt u I it'ti ii
civil life.
are being held in abeyance. J
High Cost or lCUftions.
el("fnVPr' Dec. 1. The high cost of
,w n,i hHa hit Denver, as shown by
i election commission's budget for
tor ! mm nf ,54'4TO iH asked
asain nn Purposes next year,
in The increased
" in
f extra
"applies is given for the need
appropriations.
LjnigJVEATIIER j
t,wrWiEATHER
""lav nrt l Npw Mexico: Sat
bly r": 'Su''day partly cloudy, prob
"r1v'n? o1" snow north portion Sat
'nni. i- . ,"r,lHy' n'Sht; not much
id
mouth disease were not suffering
from that infection.
Stockers and feeders held In yard,
at Chicago and elsewhere may now
be released, Dr. Dyson said.
WITIIIUtAWAI, XOTU'K AI SK
OF X)Mli:XT AT WASHINGTON
lASFIi
Washington, Dec. 1. - Withdrawal
of the. British and French treasury
bills by J. P. Morgan Co. , with tho
statement that it whs done at the di
rection of the respective governments
and out of u "desire to show every re
gard to the federal reserve board,"
treated much interest in government
circles, but drew no official comment
further than a reiteration at the state
. . . I department that, the reserve ooaro a
IllcviiiH Gets Gold Medal. "1... ".',,., ,1tl,.r of domes-
Dee. 1. Judge Emmett . , -
lie nun ri ii.
Lansing consulted several
tmperature.
JT-TIIER KF.POUT.
um 'empcrat ure, 65:
mini-
''&' 4iraakS: tercpernure at
-v-m w.4, f.&ar,
Santa Fe.
Patton of Roswell today sent in his
gradings in the high school oratorical
contest held at the convention of the
New Mexico Educational association
recently. He marks Donald Blevtns
of Albuquerque first In thought and
composition, thus assuring him the
gold medal, which had not been of
ficially awarded until Judge Pattoii
was heard from.
Small Coins Turned Out.
Denver, Dec. 1. An output of 11.
S93.0O0 pennies. 3,715.000 nickels and
2,778,400 quarters, with an aggregate
value of ll.2SS.7S0, was reported by
the Denver mint today for the months
of August, September, October and
November. During this period the
Denver mm baa been in operation
day and merit to meft an unprece
dented, demu;-.J for small colaj.
Secretary
times with the board before the Is
suance of its recent warning to
American bankers to avoid locking up
their funds in foreign treasury bills,
likely to involve long term obligations
and advised the members that their
action could not be considered in the
slightest degree unneutral or un
Iriendly. Nevertheless, as it affected
foreign securities, great care was
taken to point out in the board's
statement that 'the treasons were
purely domestic and the warning was
not intended as a reflection upon the
financial standing of any country.
In some quarters today It was sug
gested that perhaps the allied govern
ments' action was influenced to an
extent, at. Ie3f,t, hv ho;itl:'y m thfir
own couiitrlt-i to the Ulcrt wrs: n&tc.
Proclamation of Military Rule
in the Little Republic Put
Into Effect Merely to Estab
lish Order,
tT MORNINO JOURNAL RRKCIAL LKABKO WIRt)
Santo Domingo, Dec. 1. The proc
lamation of military rule In the Do
minican republic issued by ('apt. II.
H. Knnpp, in command of the United
Stall's forces here, declares on behalf
of the American government that the
republic has been occupied by mili
tary forces. II. gives assurance that
there in no intention on I. f part of
the United Slates to try to destroy the
independence of the republic, but, on
the contrary, expresses a desire to as
sist, the country to establish internal
order and to enable it to comply with
the provisions of its conventions and
to fulfill its obligations as a member
of the family of nations.
The. Dominican laws are to remain
in force, except such as conflict with
the object of occupation.
The legal administration continues
to he in the hands of the duly author
ized Dominican officials under con
trol and supervision of the militaiV
authorities. The Dominican courts
continue to act, but any offending
members of the American force are
tn be judged by military officials.
Captain Knapp requested tho co
operation of the Inhabitants In tho
restoration of order and domestic
tranquillity. A censorship of news
papers, the cable and telegraph lines
was eselablished. A promise was
given that payment of the budget, sus
pended in August, soon would be
made. Quiet prevailed here last
night.
Xew llamiiNhlro for WIIm.ii.
Concord, N. II., Dec. 1. The govern
ment and council today issued a formal
declaration of election of New Hamp
shire's presidential election for presi
dential electors, after an official can
vass i,f the presidential vote. The of
ficial returns gave Wilson a plurality
of oti, the vote being: Wilson, 43.77S;
Hughes, 4a,7:S. A recount of the
vote under the rilreeti.ni of the sec
retary of state on the petition of re
ouhbean candidates u ivlie4uled to
tcgla Decua'ber 4.
' capture of
'-Kliilbuba.
j Fighting in Dobrunjnn has become
j more Intense. Bucharest announces a
violent attack along the whole front
in that region. Berlin declares that
the attack against the Bulgarian left
wing in Dohruilju failed and that
British "tanks" are being used by the
attackers.
Activity in Galicia.
In Galicia there also has been a re
awakening: of activity. Pel rog ra d re
cords that an A ustro-i iernian allempl
to take the offensive north of the
Tarnopol-Zloczow railway was repulsed.
In Macedonia, in France, and on j
the Auslro-llalian front, there has I
been no Important change in the sit-I
nation. j
Tho artillery activity on I ho Komjiiu
front In northern France, and Tren- '
lino and Carso regions of tho Italian
theater. Is reported to be Increasing.!
Marina was not in the British trans
port service. When the vessel was
sunk It was stated In press dlspntehc.
from London that she previously had
been connected with the transport
servh'e, and allhough that when she
sailed on her Inst voyage, she was
armed with a gun astern, manned hy
two British naval gunners.
If the ship was in public service
prior to being tnrpudoed, some state
! department ofllclals take the position
rblge of heights south of thnt the presumption was in favor of
itho position that an enemy might
! have believed her
j poi t. al the lime
j order to clear up
still to be n 'IraiiK
of the attack. Ill
this point, the na
ture of her previous charter, the or
ders under which she was sailing, and
the character of her officers and crew
will be Investigated.
r'- Jones
M ,11111 U-
Both Berlin and Palis claim
pulse of ni tacks northwest of
j tir, in Serbia.
i Admiral du F'ournet, the comman
der of tho entente fleet in the Medi
! terrauean, Is reported to have landed
troops at Piraeus, the port of Athens.
'I he French, British and Italian con
tingents are said to have been includ
ed in the landing party. Aside from
a. report that Greek troons are being
sent tovvar, Athens from the north of
Greece, there ale no Indications as to
what measures the Greek government
has taken to comply with or oppose
Admiral du Fournet's demands for
the turning over of Greek arms
ammunition.
DEFENSE HAS INNING
IN$60,000 LIBEL
In. MORNINU JOURNAL RPVCIAL LRAREO WIRRl
Red iak, Iowa, Dec. 1. An alleged
plan to "get rid" of YVilkoraon, even
"If we had to kill him." to silence two
others, bi U;e a woman and "fix" cer
tain stale officials, alleged to have
been agreed upon by former Stale
Senator F. I''. Jones and till en other
persons, was outlined today by J. W.
Noel1 of Villisea, Iowa, witness for the
defense in the $110,000 libel suit of
against J. N. Wllkersoii,
de-
iteclive from Kansas City. The plain-
It iff alleges Wllkerson circulate, ru
' mors that Jones was responsible for
I the eight "axe murders'' at Vllllsca in
I I ill:'.
I Noell testified he was in an Implo
' ment shed hack of F. I''. Jones' store
'in VUbsca last May and heard four
! men in coiiversal ion. lie said he ree
i oguized the voice of F. F. Jones and
also A. V. Jones and "believed" a
third man was W. II. MeCaull ami the
; fourth was a stranger.
I lie heard I lie plan outlined, lie testl
! fi. ,!, ( "gel rid of Wllkerson," and
I disiii.se of Blai kie Mansfield and Kd
war.l Landers, "for fear of what tlief
An Associated Press dispatch from ! would
London says that a strong Impression ; could
prevails there that Great Britain willlinous
grant, the request from Washington
for reconsideration of the refu.su I nf a
safe conduct to ("mint Tarnowskl von
Tarnow, the recenllv aimolnted Aus
t ro-1 1 angaria n ambassador to the
United Slates.
la ssi di:i i: ( oi ibi s
osidi;i:abi,i:
testify. liiey thought they
buy off Mrs. Tompkins for 'a
ml dollars,'" Noell stated, "and
.1..,., ..-..i.! IVietr iik,1 not wni I'v- iiliitlll
. ,, V r,,, i - .. -
'Attorney General Co.tson, because he
lis with us,' They said County Attor
ney Gillette 'would be easily fixed.'"
Mrs. Tompkins previous testified
(she overheard a minder plotted near
j I he Moore home.
oM el oss-examlnat Ion Noell w ould
MIIV1I ATI l ni" .'A,, tain wn.v no mm n'l ii''' in i:'i
t before the grand jury.
IS GREATLY IMPROVED
..l-The'new Rum dnv'o in.o' The j ARCH BOLD'S CONDITION
wooded Carpathians, with the purpose
of diverting part of General vol', Fal
kenhayn's troops from the Rumanian
front and preventing a further inva
sion of Rumanion on Ihe Transvivan
ian side, Is acquiring momentum as it
proceeds. The drive, reports say, now
has developed into operations on a
large scale.
The important line of communica
tions from Kilibaha lo Mara mu
ms Is under control of the Russian
guns on the crests
Burns N in a Hurry.
Troy, N. Y.- Dec. 1 Mayor Cor
nelius F. Burns, president of the New
York Slate Conference of Mayors, in
o letter to Governor Whitman today I he would survive
called attention t the existing price I
of foodstuffs, and urged the governor
to aid the movement to bring about
reductions by boycott of certain arti
cles. In the letter, Mayor Burns said
that It has been determined thut eggs
Khali be the first article taken up In
this lower prices movement and that,
the t'liie c' coii'in.ncing th ram-pai-'r.
shall Uc WtcLiuvda', tvct:a
btx 6. . .
I ! MORNI NQ JOURNAL RPICIAL LKABtO WIRC1
1 Tarrytown, N. Y., Dec. 1. The con
jdltton of John D Archbold, president
of the Standard nil company of New
I Jersey, who has been dangerously ill
for several "lavs, after an operation
i for appendicitis, was much improved
I but be whs Mill very ill, It was said at
his home.
Mr. Archbold had gained strength
during the day, it was stated, and In
the afternoon appeared to bo com
fortable. Although be is lis years old
his simple habits of life and strona
constitution gave bis family hope that
War Baby IncIui.'s Dividend.
I New Yolk. Dec. 1. The Scovill
(Manufacturing company, a Connecti
cut corporation, making brass special
ties, Including fuses for shrapnel, to
day announced another monthly div
idend of 10 per cent. Thus far this
yur Hii dl'idcnd dlthuremrnta
.imount to 'JJ per eat . The cariul
stock of the company is $. a.OOJ.Odt),
ti'uins vvitli loot from the stores unci
I private residences of Chihuahua City
and were preparing to follow ttiesrt
trams were on the Mexico Northwest
em railroad, according to n message,
received at military lieaduuu tiers hw
tonight from General (Uqiia'p cavalry
column, which was at Ctility, tho first
station north of the state capital, tho
report said. The scouts obtained their
inlorniatl.T lrom refugees reaching
Guilty add Sams from Clilhualtuu,
City. This news was taken at head
quarters to indicate tho Intention of.
Villa lo evacuate the city after loot
Ing It, as he did at liirral, Santa Ro
salia and Jlmlnex. General Trevlno
was said by (ieneral Gonzales to have,
been in iTorcaslIss yesterday awaltlnif
the arrival of Gen. Francisco Mur
gula's forces from the direction oC
Camaigo, south of Chihuahua City.
Villa made a speech against for
eigners iu Hidalgo plaza, following
his occupation of the city, a Chinese
fanner and merchant, who left Chi
huahua City Wednesday morning It
in a. in., said iipv.ii his arrival here
early today on a troop train. In his)
speech, Villa warned all residents of
the city against hiding any foreigners
In their homes, and declared he In
tended to kill all foreigners, the Chi
nese added. Villa also said h 1
tended to confiscate all foreign prop
erty and give It to the Mexicans.
Afraid of Villa's Wrath,
The Chinese explained that he'ilb.
not hear Villa's speech, but was told
about It. hy a Mexican woman In
whose homo he was hiding at Itlie
time. Villa, occupied the Hy. She re
turned to toll him she could no longer
shelter him, as she was afraid of Vil
la's wrath if he discovered she was
hiding a foreigner.
Before he could leave the house, a
detachment of Villas men came In,
the Chinese said. They broke down
(lie door and started a search for him
when he ran out of a back door and
escaped to Nomhre de Dlos, a subur
ban settlement near Chihuahua. Ho
said he saw Villa's troops at the
country home of Gen. Luis Terrains,
north of Chihuahua, mid these fired
at the train which was leaving for
the north, but without casualties. Ha
also said three trains of. troops es
caped to Sauz Tuesday and Wednes
day, hut all went back with General
Oznna, the Chinese said. He did not
.sen any American, French, German
or British refugees at Sauz, he said,
but only saw numbers of Chinese aiiTl
a few Syrians.
He confirmed the killing of many
Chinese residents at Chihuahua City.
He said ho saw at least fifteen dead
In tho streets near where he was
hiding and lie believed many others
were killed, lie said tho cannon on
Ceiro Santo Ros.i set firo to many
houses in tho city.
The Chinese citizen arrived hero In
rags, although he was a prosperous
merchant and farmer ut Chihuahua
City, lie was without njoney, as are
more than MM) here now, and an ap
peal has been sent to the Chinese am
bassador al Washington for funds to
feed these refugees.
Il.in. Ills l ight Siibbornly.
A Spanish subject ulso reaching tho
bonier today, gave tho first details ot
the fighting along Zarco avenue,
which was said tov have been tho
fieriest of any III the zone of battle.
With his family, he lived on Karen
avenue and said he saw bandits as
they charged and cminter-ehargeil
the government positions there, final
ly capturing the duadalupo church,
and the breastworks at Guadalupe
bridge near the church. The bandits
burned the parish house and then
moved Into the heart of the city, ho
said.
The Spaniard denied a report which
was Iu general circulation here today
anioiHr the Spanish residents to tho
effect that Gen. Luis Terrazas' marblo
palace, the brewery and many homes
along I ii n mpii avenue had been
bullied by order of Villa. This report
Was made to tho owner of the Chi
huahua brewery by a Spaniard who
churned to have come by uutomohilo
from Chihuahua City today. The re
port was transmitted to General Ter
iH.as at nis home in F.I Paso, and was.
generally accepted as a fact until
Sen or (isniegiis, the Spanish consul,
made an Investigation and discovered
(lie report whs started In El Paso and
had no foundation.
In anticipation of bandit attacks,
tho Ciiiranza government today had
a large amount of army supplies, food,
(.ml forage shipped In wagons from
Juarez across to tho American side.
Tho wagons "ere sealed by United
Stales customs officers and placed
under bond.
Jiinrcf. Is a Gai'lix.n.
Jua rex is a military garrison to
night. All of the barracks are filled
with soldiers and the ruilroad yards
crowded with troop trains ahd parked
artillery: the streets swarm with Car
ranxa soldiers In the high crowned
hats of the south, their bright colored
blankets wrapped to their ears. Offi
cers rlda everywhere in automobiles
and carriages or ride along the main
streets, their swords clanking. It was
estimated that there are now 2.000
o!d'.-s "ji Juarez and .a troop tr:n,
from Cjj Grtade u ei-pwtti
