' . .
i
VOL. 52 NO. 285
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., SATURDAY, DEC. 2, 1916
' y
PRICE TWO CENTS
WM
1f
SWDTCI MFECTDIE9 IE
HOPE FOB
if MP If f EP
PQJ
MME1MI MEM). IF
it
ft.
(5
Triple Investigation By State, County and Rail
road Officials Into Disaster at Beacon Falls
Which Claimed Lives of Express Locomotive
. Engineer and Fireman Open Switch Cause
of Disaster To Fast New York-Winsted
-', Train. : ' j V -' - v V : -! ' ':
dramatic
LikePharitom Crew a (Ghostly Locomotive, Bod
- ieso Railroaders Reniain f or Hours in View
: . of Morbid !
Trains Release Them
T L .Beacon Falls- Dec, 2'. A triple investigation, by state, coun
ty and railroad authorities, determine the exact cause and
pjace thejre,sp6nsibility f or the
tYork-Wulsted rexpessj killing both its engineer and fireman
last nighty C heinposecuted "with the utmost vigor.
' Responsibility for ittie accident thus far is divided,- the au--'
tfeHtfekfbeifigiatisfied 't'Veithepxtests between flagman
W;7.iHersh'enroder, of New York city, and head brakeman G.
Thompson, both members. of the freight train crew, with which
. the express1 collided, or that the switch signal light was. defec-
, five. . :rl v;,i .;' V 4 ;&vtSv J C'''o":
" Pounding around the curve: 300 yards south of the, depot,
at.6.:"48' e'clock1 last night, at an estimated speed of 40 miles an
hour, 'the New York-Winsted, express, rushed through an open
switch which members of a freight crew had neglected to close,
cruncbied;the;C
arid plowed into? and climbed over a steel gondola. It came to
, & stop, with' sdden Violence that threw in every
residents.; Y-; 4t ui-.Wk'
; :One handxlutching the throttle of xhis engine, 'WhUe;; the;
other hung: limply outside .the window of his J;X$i$Ttii
rthe " death,? Engineer Eugene1: kake of Bridgeport and F?remai
Charles Slax;k;'of Waterbury; died "at thir posts' of duty; TKey
were killed instantly. . "j , v ' f
r-: ' Two men who were' riding blind baggage and whose escape
from death;' is an enigma, which none has yet been able to
solve.: were found lying in' the splintered wreckage of the ca
boose on either side of the track..; They were '.badly, injured but J
will recover. To the fact that the six coaches which compose
the train one combination mail and baggage coach, were con
structed of steel, the passengers owe their - lives Although
iriahv sustaihed bruises and severe, sprains arid were, otherwise
shaken up, none was nauiy nun
SJmult4ineou with the crash 01
i te"h Vnoeul - locomotive, or tne
largest type employed by the . railroad,
.the ' ominous hiss fot scalding steam
nvhichr enveloped the engine, could be
heapd. " Liorld flames shot into the
! air, brilliantly lighting , the scene ana
I the ' crackling of burning H timber s,
' dfewf undreds-to:the 'yynec:'-.,'':7j:
Silhoueted against the dark night
sky, .its nose lpointing -heayenward, a
distance)' of 2 0 1 feet from'' the.. ground,
' the -wnjeked : engine presented, an awe
inspiring, . bbsay: spectacle- . Dazed
passii9erft7rtt9f:.ba4ifle4i:9m i- the
. ; train stood grouped about the scene,
dazed ; and ' ' apparently ; - motionless,
while the Hev.i Edward Morrison, ; of
isTanimtrntk. "ran hither and 'thither
to be of ttssistancd to the injured. , :
. First aid for the, Injaied was sum
moned . by Rofbleri . Fitzgerald ' and his
father-in-law,; K G. Eller, Who reside
fn Railroad avenue. directly opposite
from the.- scene. , .With other , mem
bers of their family they were seated
at the supper table, when the house
shook; the dishes on the table, rattled
and threatened to fall ,to thef floor.
Eller Jumped, to his feet and ran to
the front door. He beheld the burn-p
ing locomotive and warned ' his ; son-
i Jn-law there was a wreck. Fitzger
ald rushed ; to the telephone in the
house and ' called the operator ,tell-
; lng her to summon ' ' all the "doctors
- available and rush to the scene vehi-
- cles ' .for ambulance . purposes. ; He
then caused the lire alarm to . be
pounded in the town, two chemical
tank responding to the call. .
Extricate Wonded ,
Asooinpanied by --his father-in-law
Fitzgerald, with a pocket flash lamp,
i hurried across the railroad tracks.
They managed to - extricate Joseph
TV right, who was riding blind bag-
gage, and whose arm seemed caught
between the mail coach and the lo
comotive tender, ' A further search
. disclosed August Merkle, of Pough-
' kPf who ' was also riding blind
baggage, his lip torn away and nose
broken, buried in the debris of the
' caboose, .-.-'
The?; were assisted to their feet and
Fitzgerald was lifted up the side, of
the engine to the cab. He raised En
gineer iLake's head but found life ex
tinct, , Going to th Mother side of the
)cab the" young1! man determined that
the flretnan had also, been killed and
he re-directed his attention' to the two
lnfirM men, " "v
M5ieal Examiner Frank -B. Tuttle,
ef attgatuekhad by thlainie reachf
d "the Weneaiwl' withMthephysicIn
he took both injured.men,br.d D, M,
Oelghton, a rallro -.1 - mall " clerk, of
TTaterbcry, who ha4 sustained Injuries
y - " ' ,j . ; i -
V
From Ponderous Pinions
disasterwhich wrecked. the New
to his ribs, to Eller's home on Rail
road avenue. . . t
... Temporary Hospital
Eller's wife had prepared the upper
rooms of her home for the use of the
Injured men.' She hastily broke; a
barrel and gave the staves to , Dr. ; Tut
tl, - who 'made a splint. in which he
placed ,the left forearm of JWright. It
had : been fractured in two places.
Stitches were taken in Merkle's' torn
lip and both .were rushed 6 St. Mary's
hospital. .4 : Creighton, the" mall - clerk,
scoffed at his injuries, but was latter
removed to the same institution, :with
Max. Sugarman, of New Haven, an
Adams . express messenger, who sus
tained a-sprained knee; A. I. Ti win
ger, Cold ' Spring, N. Y.,- whose left
hand was sprained; and F. D.. Nichols,
of NewTork, a Pullmaii porter, whose
neck was sprained. " , v ' '.
-While Dr. Tuttle administered res
toratives to a young mother Mrs. El
ler cared for the baby of the woman.
The mother, whose baby, was thrown
from - her 'lap, s by the impact of : the
collision, was in a hysterical condi
tion. . Father Morrison, when told by
Dr. - Tuttle that none of , the injured in
the Eller home was fatally hurt, re
turned to the Wreck scene.
' Steel Cars Save Mves . t
An investigation showed that tfcg
passenger, coaches were not badl
broken. - They were detached from
the mail coaphr run back toward Sey
mour, then, switched over to the south
bound track and continued to their
destination at'Winsted.
The two chemical companies played
continuous streams of water on . the
blazl. g locomotive, and tubs of water
were carried from nerDy nouses, dui
efforts to totally extinguish the flames
nroved unavailing. Efforts to extri
cate the dead . fireman and engineer
were futile. Their bodies1 were se
curely wedged in. the wreck'ed engine.
The terrific force with the collision oc
curred had Jammed the . cab over the
engine'; and the legs of the both men
were wedged between - the cab seats
and the locomotive, crushed to pulp.
Fireman Slack had been thrown with
such violence that his head protruding
from the cab window had been im
bedded in-the sill.' Had not both men
been instantly killed by the impact
they would have been scalded to death
by the volumes of steam which filled
the cab, .. '
' It .was three hours before the
wrecking crane and crew reached the
scene and the bodies of the dead
men were not taken from the wreck
age' untij ; some hours after their ar
rival.' ' As both main tracks were
clear, traffic on ' the road was not
seriously interrupted.
, (Continued on Fag 2.)
NOTABLE WRECKS OF
Norwalk, May 6, 1853, 60 killed.
South Lyme, 1864, 8 killed.
Trumbull, 1865, 7 killed, 30 injured.
Fairfield (freight) June, 1911,. 4 killed.
Bridgeport, Federal, July 1911, 14 killed.
Berlin Junction, runaway freight, Oct. 1911, 2 kiiled. 1
; Freetown, Mass., Jan. 1912, one killed. '
Stonington, Conn., July, 1912, 3 killed. ,
Dorchester, Mass., August, 1912, 5 killed.
South Boston, Mass., Aug. 1912, 7 killed.
Greens Farms, Boston. Express, Oct. 3, 1912, 7 killed, 50
injured. , '
Greens Farms, Merchants Limited, Nov. 1912, 17 injured.
Putnam, Conn.,'Nov. 1912, 1 killed.
: ; Stamford, Boston Express, June 1913, 5 killed.
North Haven, Sept 1913, 21 killed. ,
Westfield, October 1913, one killed.
Westerly, October 1913, Gilt Edge Express, 15 injured
Clayton, Conn., April 1914, 1 killed. i '
MilfOrd, Feb. 22, 1916, 11 killed, 60 injured.
Bridgeport, Berkshire train, Nov. 3, 1 killed.
FLICKER OF BURNING WRECKAGE
REVEALS BOTH OF ENGINE GREW
LIFELESS AT THEIR TWO POSTS
The peaceful little ' hamlet of Bea
con Falls was stunned by. the wreck.
The Winsted . express' doesn't stop at
that station, unless to leave, passengers
from New York, and - folks- in s the
town have'- grown accustomed to see
ing the train hustle past' the ' station
at a fast clip. : .7 :...'.:'). '
The town was at supper when a
terrific crash broke the . stillness of
the ; early evening. Residents along
Railroad - avenue, which paralells. the
tracks, say their houses were shaken
by .the Impact ' ; . -;
One, townsman ' who 'lives ?close .tt
CHe7 scene oflhSs wr.ecH saw" a.t,i&
glance of the seriousness of thd situa
lon. After . notifying 'the. telephone
exchange to summon physicians, , he
called i up the' factory whose whistle
Is the town's fire alarm. The watch
man at the factory sent out several
shrieking- blasts . that . , brought: . .the
town rushing to the freight yards. .
First witnesses say that, immediately
after the. smash, a .sheet, of flame shot
out from both sides of the .loco.motive.
Clouds ' of .steam hissed" from the " en
gine, and it looked as if the wreckage
would be- consumed by fire. . - s
The., factory whistle brought out
the f( hand-drawn apparatus of the
Beacon Falls fire department.' Chem
ical tanks were, emptied onto the
flaming Wreckage by : tlhe volunteer
firemen, while otherx townsmen assist
ed in caring for those who. were hurt,
The fire department ' kept the
flames confined to the wreckage of
the cabopse which was Jammed over
and under the locomotive. 1 After the
chemicals had, been exhausted, there
was nothing for the. firemen to do ex
cept join with, the hundreds of others
who : were viewing) the - gruesome pic
ture. . . ." '':
Huddled - in . groups they . talked in
whispers. Some railroadmen and
some of the village" firemen carried
lanterns. These : afforded the only
light, except for the ghastly flicker
of the still burning caboose. - ,
Passengers alighting from the train
and "tracks J and joined with the vil
lagers. ' .They had ' a . long, wait before
another locomotive came to haul the
undamaged ' cars from the fateful sid
ing. Then most, of. them clambored
aboard and went to Waterbury.
-When the undamaged cars' were
taken frojn the siding the- slight jar
pccasiohfed; in coupling' on the loco
motive, gave new v life to the N fire
flickering at the forward : end,. The
mass of ; wreckage, piled higher than
the- headlight of. the locomotive,
sprang into flames, " bringing the
tragic picture into fullest 'view.
; Then it was that -onlookers found
the answer to the whispered query
as to whether, anyone had been killed.
At his post in t the cab, thfe lifeless
body of the engineer was almost bolt
H!l: IftSlwig extended
within the cab, as if it still gripped
Pullman Passengers
Flung Violently From
Chairs Into the Aisle
CoL Wilbur F. Coe of Torrington
was a passenger in the Pullman car
of the express train, and he stated
that he had been reading a paper, and
had no idea that anything, was wrong
until there came the, sudden and vio
lent slackening of .speed, and he ; was
then thrown Into the aisle of the car
and practically everyone of the 20
or more passengers in the car , were
also thrown Into the aisle, but he was
not .injured. ;
Mrs. George Neuberth of 834 'South'
13th street, Newark, N. . J., and her
12 year old son, Aldis, were also pas
sengers on the Pullman car. She and
her son had just finished' having sup- i
per . and there was a table : between
their two chairs. When the crash
came shewas thrown clear over the
table and iorward in the aisle from
the fourth seat from the front of the
car to the extreme forward part of
the ear but ' she stated that aside
from the shock and . the discomfiture
of the shaking up, she was not in
jur ' '
NEW HAVEN SYSTEM
the brake lever.-- The other
hung outside the cab ; window'.
arm
$ On the other side of the cab, the
fireman was pinioned in his seat. His
body had been, whirled completely
around and his head was Jammed
into the forward corn of cab win
dow.'-: - .- , .
A few minutes, later a doctor clam
bered into the railroad cab. A glance
satisfied him . that both men had
probably been - killed instantly at
their posta . . . v
In. such . positions :were they held
in their seats that it was Irtpossibie
to iSBate - the
wrecking crews arrived the first did
not reach the scene until three hours
after the crash. During this long
wait hundreds from : nearby towns
came in,. automobiles and afoot - to
view; the wreckage. Y
i One villager, who - carried an elec
tric flashlight, , : showed : . newcomers
who manifested interest how the en
gine - crew had died at ' their posts.
He'd , lead newcomers to the ropes
which the flre department had strung
alongside the tracks, and then flash
his bulls-eye light onto the cab
windows. " . ,. .
As if in a theatrical spot light; the
lifeless forms of the engine crew ap
peared as malinikins. Hair dishev
eled, and faces whitened by .the
scalding steam that had enveloped
tnem, they appeared as something
make-believe rather than all that was
left of once -human forms. -
Undertakers' emergency' : baskets,
waiting- on the ground beneath,' com
pleted the picture and made unneces
sary the comment ' of the garrulous
villager with the spotlight.
For three hours this same tragedy
was enacted oyer , and over again.
Then came the first , wrecking crew,
with .their, flaming calcium flares.
The brilliant lights illumined the
scene as if in broad, daylight.
- A couple of railroadmen hopped off
ine wrecKing . train as it was still
moving. They took a business-like
iook at. the wreckage. One of them
climbed into the cab, gazed a moment
in snence at the lifeless forms therein
ana men r dropped back to , the
ground, barking out an order to his
gang1 of helpers.
.; j.uc j ciiu.e mat naa nuner over
the Wreckage for hours wast broken
by the shrill ' whistle of - the opera
tives or the big crane on the
wrecker. A hundred laborers tackled
or removing the loose wreck
age. ,
, The mail car was first pulled away
irom tne tender. Then the . tender
was uncoupled, allowing th under
takers to remove the bodies from the
engine cab. A black covered waeon
rumbled ; up to the siding and there
was a - slamming of doors. . The
wrecking, crew went back at its job
c-iearing tne tracks
Medical Examiner
Takes Charge; Finds '
Few Passengers Hurt
Dr. Frank J. Tuttle, medical exajn-
lner, was summoned from his office in
Naugatuck by, railroad officials. He
caused notice to be sent to other
physicians and hurried to Beacon
.rails. 1 ' ..."
- .When I arrived," Dr. Tuttle said
today, "the wreckage was still burn
ing, though the local' flre department
had confined the flames to the part
of the wrecked caboose near the front
of the passenger train locomotive. I
climbed into the cab and after as
certaining, that . both members of the
engine. crew were beyond aid,, helped
care for the injured. ' v
rne two men who were riding
blind-baggage were, painfully hurt,
though their injuries were not serious.
They were taken to a Waterbury hos
pital in the . ambulance which had
been called from Naugatuck. The
injuries of a few passengers who were
hurt were not serious." - :
Dr. Tuttle ,took charge of things at
the wreck and notified Coroner-Eli
Mir
Believed That Rumanians
Cannot Hold Out Much
Longer in Defense of Capi
tal Against Onrush of Teu
ton Forces.
Two Flanking Movements
of Van Mackensen Rapid
ly, Are Closing in on Ru
maniansNo Help . in
Sight From Russians. 5
London, Dec. 2. Hopes of
the Rumanians' ability to save
their capital by making a stand
on the line of the Argechu riv
er are now dwindling rapidly.
The German plan apparently is
to envelop the Rumanians on
both flanks and cut off the first
and second Rumanian armies.
According to the news of the
last two days this plan is being
swiftly carried out.
.By the capture of Campulung the
Germans gained a new . line of supply
and communication through Torzburg
Pass which . greatly facilitates their
operations. In the meantime Field
Marshal Von Mackensen continues to
throw forces across the Danube at
different points. The report in the
Russian communique that rebels have
appeared In the region of Lake Gria-
kiy indicates that Von Mackensen has
effected a new crossing somewhere in
the neighborhood of Oltenitza. ;
Unless strong Russian reinforce
ments 'arrive in time to throw Von
Mackehsen's forces back across the
Danube it is believed that the Ruma
nians will find it too dangerous to
try toNave Bucharest by making a
stand on the Argechu river. ' In view
of the fate of the fortresses in Bel
gium and other strong forts little con
fidence is felt here in , the ability
of Brialmont's - fortifications . around
Bucharest to withstand , the attack of
German heavy ordnance
ft ccording to the estimate formed
by military observers some"fiays &go
the Central powers have some 15' di
visions in western Rumania, towhich
must be added whatever forces Von
Mackensen has been able to throw
across the Danube. ' Rumania has
about 20 divisions with which-to con
front , the invaders. . v. J , .
According to a. Berlin - despatch to
the Nieuwe Rotterdamsche Courant.
the Teutonic forces have now reached
the lowlands from which the outer
most forts of the girdle around Bu
charest are within range of the Ger
man heavy guns. This despatch says
it Is not believed the Rumanians will
attempt to defend the city. ; There is
no confirmation from any other source
of the German rumor- that Russian
troops, have reached Bucharest.
The greatest reliance is now placed
here on the Russian counter move, in
the Kirlibebe region. In this theatre
the Russians are making a great at
tack on a front of 400 kilimetres
stretching alopg the whole Carpathian
line- and the northern-part of eastern
Transylvania. 1 -
It is believed ' here that both . -Ru
mania and r Russias may have been
hampered by the question of munition
supply as well as by the difficulties in
railway transit and the long distances
necessary to . cover to bring in rein
forcements. -In regard to munitions,
Russia is now in better shape, as the
new, railway just . opened from Kela
Boy to Lake Onogo gives access to an
ice free port, thus giving constant
communication with England ' and
America' by sea. '-. ".
RUSSO-RUMANIANS
CONTINUE ATTACKS
V Berlin, Dec. 2. The Russian and
Rumanian forces are continuing to
'make fierce -attacks along the Buko-
wina and Moldavian . frontiers. To
day's statement from army headquar
ters says the attacks were without
success and hat heavy loses were in
flicted by the Teutonic troops.
A great battle has developed in
western Rumania. The Austro-Ger-man
army advancing from the region
of Campulung has defeated the Ru
manians in a pitched battle, breaking
through their lines. . 0
-More than 6,000 Rumanians have
been captured in western itumania.to
getherwith 49 cannon. In the ad
vance toward Bucharest ; the Teutonic
forces have reached the Argechu river.
RUSSIANS CliAIM GAINS
Petrograd, Dec.; 2. The Russians
have gained posession pf the western
part of Tchernavoda bridge, . across
the Danube, it was announced official
ly today.. South of Bucharest the
Teutonic ? forces . have . been driven
back, the statement says, and the vil
lages (of Tzomana and Gostinaro have
been - recaptured. ,
SERB LINKS ATTACKED
; Paris, Dec. 2. A violent attacK was
made, last night on the Serbian posi
tion north of Gruishto, on the Mace
donian front east of the Cerna river
bend. The war office announceu to
day that the attack had been repulsed.
BRITISH SHIP SUNK.
London, Dec. 2 The sinking of the
British steamship. Eggesford by a sub
marine is reported by Lloyds. , . The
crew was landed. The Eggesford, 3,
566 tons gross, was built in 1910 en
dowed in Cardiff. She was last re
ported, on her arrival on October 31
at Bordeau from New Orleans.
Day of Terror in Capital is Brought to End When
Ruler Gives Up Artillery Demanded By Cap
tain of Allied Fleet Many Casualties Report
ed in Street Battles Between Rival Greek
Forces and Royalists and Allied Marines
' Troops Are Withdrawn After King Meets De
mands of the Allies.
Athens, Dec. 2 The King of Greece has agreed to give up
the artillery demanded by Admiral Du Fournet. The allied
troops are withdrawing from Piraeus. ;
The entente diplomats informed The Associated' Press cor
respondent that Admiral Du -Fournet ordered the withdrawal'
of his troops after King Gonstantine agreed to surrender six
batteries of mounted artillery to the Allies.
The Allied forces are already leaving the Zehpeion, only
300 remaining as a guard.
ONE DEAD, MANY
SEVERELY SICK,
SUSPECT POISON
' . ' ; v . . ; ' -' .
West End! Children Taken
-HI With What May Be At
tack of Ptomaine.;
The' death this : morning at the
BridsreDort hospital of Annie Nuss-
baum, . six years ,
Charles Nussbaum,
old daughter
of
a marketman
at
861 Hancock avenue, after well dever
oped symptoms of poison, three other
cases of similar poisoning known to
the authorities and rumors of at least
half a dozen additional cases of ail
ments having reached the board - of
health; investigation ' into what may
prcve tt be ' a wholesale poisoning . has
been started. 1 --
Health Officer W. H. Brown has
learned these facts: Annie Nussbaum,
living at ! 365 Hancock, avenue, : was
well at 3 o'clock Thursday atfernoon
when - she and her sisters, Sadie, aged
seven, Helen, aged five, and Carl, aged
two; were allowed to go to a Hancock
avenue candy store to get some lolly
pops. . . ' - - -.
At 5 o'clock, Annie, who had eaten
three of the candies, became violently
ill. I In a short time similar, symptoms
were observed in the others, but with
less violence. Dr. Maurice Greenstein
was called. .He diagnosed the Nuss
baum case as probably ptomaine poi
soning. When the case of Annie be
came acute1 yesterday Dr. Greenstein
ordered her transferred to Bridgeport
hospital, where she succumbed this
morning N , V 1
; In reporting the matter to the board
of health today; Dr. Greenstein is said
to have told the authorities of similar
cases in Pine and Spruce streets, un-der-the
care of other- thysiclans.
Becavse ,-the Hancock avenue candy
dealer asserts with apparent honesty
that he has. sqld large quantities of
the candy heretofore without injurious
results to the children, the authorities
will make a rigid, investigation to de
termine, If by any chance enemies of
the dealer, may have sprinkled poison
of any kind among the. supplies. ,
Dr. -L. E. Poole, bacteriologist of the
departn nt of health, this afternoon
will analyze samples of candles from
this and various other, stores in an ef
fort to determine ; the source of poison
and . to prevent others becoming af
fected. ..." ! ' '
Dr. Greenstein is v in hopes today of
saving the lives of the' other Nuss
baun C children, whosa .conditions
showed improvement this morning.
FALLSDEflFiN
BARNYARD; PIGS
CHEW ARM OFF
; .' . f
' i ' '
Southbury Farmer's Life
less Body is Gnawed and
, Trampled By Swine;
Southbury, Conn., Dec. .2 Charles
S. Brown, aged 76,, who lived alone,
was "found dead In his cowpen today
by a neighbor who had ' called to
see how he was. Death probably
had come last evening for pigs which
had had access to the pen had eaten
oft! one 'arm and hand.
Medical Examiner Sammel Green is
ill and it was necessary to take Mr.
Brown's body to the former's' home
to be .viewed. Dr. Green said .death
was undoubtedly due. to apoplexy. It
is thought an autopsy may be held
as some persons had a suspicion that
marks. on the body might have been
caused by persons entering, the house.
Decision on ' this point will be left
with Deputy Corbner Monzanl at Wat
erbury. The body marks may have
been , due to abrasions made by the
swine. ' -
.Mr. Brownwas father of Harry H.
Brown, of Brown & Underwood, au
tomobile dealers of , New- Haven. He
also was. a trial Justice here for many
years, retiring on account of age.
THE WEATHER
Fair tonight and . Sunday
; : ' ' - . ); :', .. :-
The French ' legation, which was
guarded by French marines, was fired
upon during the crisis. The Greek
military authorities assert that the fir-
ing was done by rowdies. Secretary
Bridgman of the British legation "was .
arrested in the street by a Greek pa
trol and 1 taken to a police station
where he was instantly released. .
On the intervention of the Spanish
and Dutch ministers the entire cabin-'.
et and the entente diplomats met at
the French legation, at 8 o'clock last.
evening to discuss the possibility of an
agreement.. An armistice was finally .
arranged and the firing ceased.
- Admiral Du Fournet , landed some
400 marines at an early hourarid
marched toward Athens seizing-Philo-papos
Hill overlooking the city. The ,
Greek guards ' on , all roads leading
to the Capitol refused - to permU a
L second marine detachment to advance
further. All trams between Athens
and Piraeus were ' stopped " and no
carriages were permitted to enter the
city. ' . .- ::
In - Athens there was intense ex
citement. Women, carrying loads, of
provisions' hastilyfcoufht 3n anticipa
tion pf. a slege hronged the strepta
ab6ewhtclP:bMletsrwere iiyingv. Old
men with hunting guns on their backs
mounted guards at the street corners
so as to release the. soldiers f or the'
'fighting 1 outside; ." ' ,u '..
- Four hundred. British . marines rein
forced the 'French force 'in . the Za
pheion, the famous industrial exhibi
tion" building which lies at the south
side'of the gardens of the royal pal
ace. From the surrounding , hills
Greeks' poured , bullets into the 'Za- ,
phcon. The allied forces appeared
to be acting tunder a preconceived'
military plan which , was Intended to
spare the city as much as possible. .
Many Reported f)ead
After Street Battles
London, Dec. 2. After a day of ter
ror in Athens, in which Venezelisti
fought royalists and Greek troc-jps fired,
upon entente forces . which - had been
landed, according to Vice Admiral . Du
Fournet, to maintain order, a truco
was arranged. King Constantlne final
ly agreed to surrender the mountain
guns demanded- by the allies and the
latter are 'withdrawing their troops
with the exception of a small guard.
: Disturbances began as soon as . the
allied troops were landed. Greek
troops fired on the entente force which
occupied the Zapheion, while reserv
ists and Venezelists exchanged shots
m' the streets. A pitched .battle b-'
tween the 'opposing Greek Aforces oc
curred in Stadium street. The casual
ties have not been ascertained but it
is known several civilians were killed.
The' Dutch and Spanish , ministers
finally intervened and. Induced the
king to surrender the guns on condi
tion that the entente withdraw their.
troops, .except 300 left in. the Zephlon.
According to information . from a
source close to the Greek government,
Admiral Du Fournet telegraphed to
Premier Lambros suggesting an armis
tice, which was effected after a con '
ference of. the premier-with the king.
While the conference was in progresa
and even after the . French . mihister
had been summoned ,to take part In it,
guns, continued to , boom. Special des
patches from Athens 'say the French
bobarded the hill behind the palace. ,
"Vice Admiral Du Fournet tele
graphed to Premier Larabros at 2 p.
m. suggesting an armistice. Before,
word could , reach all the Greek de-'
tachments posted on the hills fighting
broke out again. . A French effort to
storm the wireless' station on Observa-,
tory Hilll, southwest of the city, wa3.
repulsed at the . point of the bayonet.,
An armistice finally was effected, ' '
The premier came tothe palace at
3:30( p., m. to s?e"k final instructions
from the king before conferring with.
Vice Admiral Du Fournet. .While the.
premier was in' the palace fighting be-i
gan" again. The French " force , in the x
Zapheion consisting of 2,000 marines
under personal charge of: the, vice. ad
miral fired on two passing Greek of
ficers. , The Greeks called their artil
lery into use. The king, ..who was.
watching .the fighting from- the gar
den, immediately ordered that the fir
ing cease. The Greek colonels, Diml't
sicopoules and Delayanla, , were killed.
At 5 o'clock the fleet began firing on
the hills Just back of the palace.
THEFT SUSPECTS FREED.
Six men apprehended yesterday up
on suspicion of the , police that the;
might throw. some light on recent tire"
and magneto thefts from automobiles
were released ' . f rOm custody . today
when evidence to convict thean was i
found lacking. . . ,.
r
S3
