ICAJS
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAR
JO PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, SATURDAY MORNING. DECEMBER 2, 1916
10 PAGES
VOL. XXVII.,. XQ 197
WAR LOAN TURNED
DOWN BY MORGAN
Republican A. P. Leaaed Wire
NEW YORK, Dec. 1 The abandon
ment by J. P. Morgan and com; any
of the proposed sale of a limited
amount of short term British and
Prenc'.i treasury bills at the reiuest
f the entente allied governments,
announced ncre today, came as a sur
prise to the financial community. The
announcement, issued lrom the Mor
gan offices, stated that the action of
Ihe British and French governments
was t..ken out of regard for the at
titude adopted against the sale by
the federal reserve board. The sur
prise was heightened by the fact tl.at
all arrangements for the offering had
been perfected.
Othsr plans to finance the pressing
needs of the Btitish and French gov
ernments already are under way, it is
understood, but they hae not yet
reached a definite stage. A mtmbe,
f the Morgan firm Informally state I
that no other plans had been formu
lated, but It was learned from reliable
sources that the denial had been made
ns a matter cf wolicy. The plans un
der contemplation, it is intimated, will
involve a large amount of "do'la
rrrdits" available to Croat Britain if
liot to her chief ally.
ilritiah Institutions and private In
ratnrs still retain large amounts of
American securities although th"v
have been largely mol ilized ty ".!"
British treasury. There have been no
cancellations of orders for war sup
plies or any other materials to the
countries of the entente allies, ac
cording to the bankers actin? fo'
tho?e interests and no diminution of
r lers is expected.
The British government continue to
hold larae reserves of gold in Canada
nmi ilm more remote colonies, and
these reserves, it is believed, v. ill ! Republican A. P. Leased Wire
employed to meet immediate exigencies I!1 'STUN. Dec. . Investigations of
incl'idinz stabilization of exihing. the high cost of living which are now
The announcement was contained in'l'eing made by federal officials or
the fallowing statement: 'agents throughout the country will be
AW have been instructed by the directed by George Anderson, the
British and Krench government to ,
withdraw their treasury bills from it was announced here today. Attorney
sale. ' j General Gregory, according to a state-
"Ve have accordingly expressed to ment Issued by the I'nited States at
those institutions and investors whi h torney's office, has asked Mr. Anderson
bad already placed erd"rs w ith us for i to take charge of th? investigations so
these securities the w ish to be re-j "that the work may be coordinated and
leaed from the obligations to deliver made as effective and rapid as pos-
nnd they have teen good enough to
a ccede. I
'"This action is because, as explained
se, as explained)
llor of ire ex- J
Yench minister
l v the British crancell'
heouer and bv the FY'
i,l Iinance. tnese governmenis nesne i whicn. by tne way. involves no increase i contro the miiU supply In Boston.
t- show every regard to th- fb ral j of salary or other compensation. j which attracted much attention at ti e
reperve board, a governmental body j "While technically the Jurisdiction of 1 department All special agents of the
t f which the secretary of the treas ary the department of Justice is only to rte ,,anment throughout the country
sind th" comptroller of the currency deal with Illegal restraint. of interstale )iavehccn Instructed by the attorney
r re ex-frMw- memter. commerce, the investigation wiil take a '. crn to cnniernte' with federal at-
We iruty add that the sale of a rather wide range and all- pertinent;, 1 Invcst gatlir foiMl cost In
limitcl amo int of these treasury bl!ls .f!,ets and information will be used ns lnWSl
payable in dollars in New 1 ork have
never been an essential fart of e
.- Hied government's financial plans but
r.ave for some time been under con-
"idcration with a view to farnl.shin
rie-
l,,c r"
manns lor an nmnimniin.
inruy aim sui-n iioon-.i i"mmt
that the government could al.vajs nn- w
rU.rt:i!e t.. liv ilnun ffiitd in Ptt'
VorW sufficient to meet the matured '
bills.
"It was believed further that thes
? ills would have furnished at the end
cf the war an excellent measure of
i.p.itM'tlun In 1 ha Imnrliitn finnnct "I
Kituation inasmuch ps thee steadily J
maturing obligations of the f.ireig.i
governments would have tendol to
prevent heavy drafts of gold from this
market."
From Washington
WASHINGTON. De.-. 1 Withdrawal
if the Hrltish and F'rench treasury
bills hv J. P. Morgan and company
with the statement that it wss done
nt the decision of the respective gov
ernments and out of a ' desire to show
every regard to the federal resT.e
board," created much Interest in gov
ernment circles, but drew no rf.'bial
comment frrther than a reiteration at
the state department that the reserve
board's action was merely a matter of
domestic concern.
Ke'ert-tary Lansing consulted several
members of the reserve board In re
gard to the Issuance of its recent
warning to American bankers 'o
avoid locking uo their funds In for
eign treasury bills llkdv to involve
long term obligations and advised th
members thet their action cou'd r.bt
be considered In the slightest degree
unneutral r.r unfriendly. Neve.rtneless
Hi it affected foreign securities, grrst
care was taken to point in the board's
statement that the reasons were pure
ly domestic and the warning was not
Intended ns a reflection unon the fi
lu'ncinl standing of anv country.
It was ste'ed officially that no gov
ernmcnt bad approached the state de.
Deporting
fReitiblican A. P. Leated Wire
WASHINGTON. Dec. 1 Acting on
its own behalf the American govern
men has informed Germany anew of
Its deep concern over the deportation of
Belgians from their own country by
the German military authorities. This
action has been taken as a result of
information about the deportations
gathered from different sources, and
after fruitless Informal efforts on be
half of the Belgians made by American
Charge Grew at Berlin.
Germany has been Informed that the
treatment of the Belgians has made a
very bad impression on this country
and that the I'nited States cannot
avoid taking notice of the situation,
basing Its stand on the broad grounds
of humanity.
The American government, it was
learned today, was led to move not only
because of tbe expressed feeling that
the deportations have been looked uon
by disfavor both by the American peo
ple and government, but because of
fear that Belgian relief work, which is
administered by Americans, may be in
terfered with.
The information already Irt fhe hands
of the state department on the situa
tion was supplemented today by the
Belgian minister, K. Havenith, who re
ported to Secretary Lansing that more
than 100,000 Belgians had been deport
ed and that leHirlation are continu
ing at the rate of 3,000 a week. He
partment In any way concerning the.
notes, either before or alter the re
serve board's announcement.
SUB CAPTURES AIRPLANE
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
PERLIN. Dec. 1, (Wireless to Say
ville). A German submarine recently
. u1""1' r"pn 1V splracy resignation in concerted action,
ash damaged air-,, wmlI(, court miirtlals ,,P
sea oft the mown , , , f(lmv At anv ,t wltll
the Overseas News' ,. . , l. .. i. .ii. ..an.
encountered a Rri
plane flouting on the
of the Thames, says the Overseas News
Agency. The two officers who were In
. i. . i , , i
the airplane was destroyed by the sub- j
marine crew.
BATTLE STILL RAGES
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON, Dec. 1. A Berlin wireless
dispatch says that the battle with the
Russians in the Carpathians and in
eastern Transylvania continues with . W ilson has accepted the resignation of
stubbornness on a front of about 24S 4',ft national guard officers who desir
miles. It adds that the Russian for -es ed to leave the service for personal or
are being constantly renewed. business consideration.
UNCLE SI AUS; SPECIAL
PRDSECUTQR ISIPPITEITf
INVESTIGATE COST OE LIVING
rniteri States attorney for this district,
sible. '
The statement continues:
"To that end. Mr. Anderson has j
reived a formal appointment as special
assistant to the attorney general. ,
effectively a possible to bring about a
coordination Innween government and
(business forces.
"Undoubtedly other departments of
departments or
the government, like the department rf
merce. the federal trade commission i
'"-.merce me leuera. i.aue ....,..,.....,
ia.n1 'he Interstate commerce commis- ,
sion will nave nata ami views nrn
ill be of the greatest assistance i.n
.Vi. ........ ii .n,pj tl... itoiurtmnnr
i. ,ilr n d.biiv notion that it can
Republican A. P. Leaaed Wire
KANSAS CITY. Dec. 1 Diagnosis
of the ailment affectinir cattle here as
stomatis ami not the much-feared f
epidemic, foot and mouth disease,
caused predictions tonight that the
quarantine on the local stock yards
would be lifted within a few days. Dr.
James Fleming, local representative of j
the federal bureau of animal Industry, (
said it was likely that all restrictions
on the movement of cattle would be
removed within a short time, but there
was no indication of when the formal
notification would be Issued.
Although the cattle inouirv was eon-
gratulatlng itself tnight that a dreaded
epidemic was not Imminent, both
stock raisers and packers were dis
turbed by the announcement that the
appearance of stomatis was more
widespread than any other outbreak
of that ailment in the history of this
country.
Warnings were l-i,e.l k, i ,. I
AnihnpKiA. .ln .,i:i. r I
?nghsTmmomrsS amJ
.i , ... i
lining of all affected livestock.
Belgians
added that railroad worker have been
taken to man military roads now being
laid, and that some have been taken
Into the occupied ortion of Northern
France and some Into Germany.
The step taken by the I'nited States
followed a visit of Col. E. M. House
and James W. Gerard, American am
EPIDEMIC SCARE
DIES NATURALLY
Santo Domingo Quieted By
Captain Knapp's Statement
Republican A. P. Leaaed Wire
SANTO DOMINGO. Nov. 30. The
proclamation of military rule In the
Dominican republic Issued by Captain
H. S. Knar p, in command of the
1 nlte,i states forces here, declares o i
behalf of the American government
that the republic has br-n occuped
by military force, it gives asuran e
that there Is no intention on tne part
of the United States to destroy the In
dependence of the republic but, o
the contraty, expresses a desire to as
sist the country establish Internal or
der nnd to enable It to comply with
th provisions of Its conventions and
to fulfill Its obligations as a member
of the family of nations.
Officers of Guard
May Be Tried For
Resigning in Body
Republican A. P. Leaaed Wire
WASHINGTON. Dec. 1. As resig
nations of army officers can come to
the war department only through the
regular military channels, it will be
several ilays at, least before any com
munication from the orricers of the
Twelfth New York infantry, reported
to have resigned yesterday, will reach
Washington. Meanwhile, officials of
the department decline to pas any
formal opinion upon the case.
Onl -'in the event there was a eon-
fj ' b y, 0,.neral om-an. and
ill 'I uy txiutjvi
Kton Mtm the" department could In
come Involved. It is rather expected
that the whole matter can be ad
justed satisfactorily in Texas after the
officers conserned have had time fully
to consider their action.
A statement complied today shows
that, siive the mobilization of the mi-
litia in the border states. President
intake short crops long or manufacture
i or repair needed freight cars, but it
j does proiose to use all Mower within ltd
control to see that Interstate commerce
moves unclogged and unchecked by any
I illegal combination in restraint of
trade
WASHINGTON. Dec !. District At
torney Anderson at Boston, it was an
nounced at the department of Justice
tonight, has lieen siccd In (hatgo cf
the federal government s price investi
gation in order to coordinate U.e in-
Miuiries in progress at Boston. New
York. Brooklyn. Chicago and other
,,rimiral markets. His desl gnatim was
Kjd , (lue llirKrv t., hls work in
nVMI1Btt jnK charges of i on?,;.irHcy to
creases.
The detainment of Justice has t'irred
over to the federal trade commission
th facts developed In its Investigation
i" ....... ' .,.,,, ,.r..,.,.,u,.
'." ' ' i .lrM(,v ' end.n2
!orP ' T""" "... ' ' ......V;
. ,nown ,t,.part
-
- - - vpI ,h nrniaI
. , h, h T. .,
"". : ' ,.,, ,i ,h.
I iiiinii i nflJ"i nun -
'luestion for some time.
ANOTHER STRIKE
fRerubllcan A. P. Leased Wee
WASHINGTON. Dec. 1 . W. W.
Hanger, member of the federal board
of meditation and conciliation, left for
Nashville. Tennessee, tonight to under
take settlement of differences between
the Nashville, Chattanooga and St.
I'uls railroad and its employes. The
railroad asked for mediation and rep
resentatives of tha four brotherhoods
whose members have voted to strike
unless their demands are granted, tele
graphed today accepting the good of-
vficea of the board and agreeing to
suspend action.
Commissioner Chambers of the
board, on receipt of the railroad re
quest last night, offered the board's
services to both sides. He had pre
pared to send Mr Hanger to the scene
even ,,efore word came today from the
brotherhoods. Officials of the Imard
Kniu no plan "t anion wouiu oe con
sidered until full information had Iwen
assembled.
o
PANI BACK HOME
(Republican A. . Laaaed Wire
MEXICO CITV. Deo. I. Al'.ierto J
Vvni. a memlsr of the Mexican com
mission which has been endeavoring
In sessions uf Atlantic City with an
American commission to settle out
standing differences between Mexico
j nnd the I'nited States, arrived In the
capitol todar after a visit to Quere-
taro. Senior Jan
ro. renior jam wi spend several
'". """"" -
'vy," f,,r f;ner"l Caanza"
Must Stop
bassador to Germany, to the Whlte
House and state department earlier in
tho week. Ambassadon Gerard, who
plans to leave for Berlin Tuesday, will
be In a position to present the personal
views of ITesident Wilson to the Ger
man foreign office when he arrives
there.
The Dominican laws are to remain
In force, except such as conflict with
ti e object of the occupation.
The legal administration continue
to be in the bands of duly authorized
Dominican officials under control and
supervision of the military authorities.
The liominlcnn courts contlni e to act.
but anv offending official will be re
spons.ble to the I'nited Slates.
Captain Knapp requested the co
operation of the Inhabitants In the
restoration f order and domestic
tranquility. A promise was given that
payment of tho budget, Hiisin-nded In
August, soon would be made. Quirt
prevailed here last night.
RUSSIANS I
'ill M MQ IPJ
ik 'jiniium
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
Desperately the Rumanians, probably
aided by Russian troops, are defending
the southern and western approaches to
Bucharest, while the Teutonic advance
continue)- to press more closely on tiie
Rumanian capital from the northwest.
Unofficially it Is reported In London
that Russian troops have arrived In
Bucharest to aid the hai d-pres.sed Ru
manian forces.
lrogress for the advancing Geiman
and Austro-Hungariau armies in Wal
lachla and south of Uucliarest is re
ported by Berlin, which a i tiie Ru
manians continue to olfr resistance.
The Rumanians apparently are on or
near the line of tlio Argeshu. as ivtro
grad says the invaders have occupied
two towns south of Hucl.urest anil n?ar
that river. Field Marshal von .Macken
sen, Berlin records, has thrown nn ar
my across the Niaslov lowlands, which
would be approaching the Argc.ihu la
the direction of Bucharest.
Advanring southward from the Cam-pulung-l'itesliti
region, the Teuton in
vaders have taken prisoners and can
non and much other ei.ipment from
the retiring Rumanians. In the light
ing reported in the latest coiiin.uniqt.is,
Berlin says the Rumanians lost more
than L'Mio prisoners and 21 cannon.
The Russians continue aggrecsively
their offensive against the Austro
t'erman lilies from the Carpathians to
southern Trans.v lvania. Berlin elates
the Russian attacks, which are dec lared
to have been along a front of 1S mill s
from Jahlonit'-a to Ked.l Vuaarheiy re
sulted only in small advantages, which
are declared not to be commensurate
with the cost In men and ammunition.
Betrograd adni'ls a repulse southwest
of Yakarka in the arpa!h!at,s. but re
cords the capture of a ridge of heights
south of Kirllbaka.
The fighting In Dobrudja has become
more Intense. Bucharest announce a
violent attack along the whole front in
that region. Berlin declares that the
attack agairst the Bulgarian!; left wing
in Dobrudja tailed ar.d that Rut's!:
"tanks' are being used by tae at
tackers. In Galirla there also has been a re
awakening of activity. I'etrograd re
cords that an Austrn-t lerman attempt
to take the offensive north cf the Tar-nopol-ZIorzow
railway was repulsed.
In Ma'-edonia. In France, and on tae
Austro-Italian front there ha. Iwen no
lm;ortant ch ange in the situation. Th
artillery activity on the Somme front
In northern France and In the Trentlno
am! far so regions of the Italian the.-ter
is reported to be increasing. Both Ber
lin and l'arts claim the repulse of at
tacks northwest of Monastir. In Serbia.
Admiral Du Fournet, the commander
of the entente fleet in the Mediterran
ean Is reported to have landed troops
at I'lraeus. the port of Athens. Ir rench.
British ami Italian contingents are said
to have been Included in the landing
party. Aside from a rMirt that Creek
troop are being sent toward Athens
from the north of Greece, there are no
Indications as to what measures the
Greek government ha taki n to comply
wltll or oppi se Admiral Du Fournet's
demands for the turning over of Greek
arms nnd ammunition.
An Associated ITess dispat -h from
I-ondon says that a strong impression
prevails there that Great Britain will
grant the reouest from Washington for
re-consideration of the refusal of a safe
conduct to ""ount Tarnowskt von Tar
now. the recently appointed Austro
Hungarian ambassador to the I'nited
States.
o
? 7
1 ARIZONA EASTERN FIGHTS ;
I I
1 EIGHT-HOUR LAW
I I
TUCSON. Dec. 1. Attorneys '
' renrcsentmq the Arizona Eastern !
! railway, operatinq within this '
! stato. this afternoon filed tuit in I
I the United States district court. I
' asking that Thomas Flynn, United '
States attorney for this district. !
i be enjoined from inrtitutinq pro- 1
I ceedings aqainat the railroad for I
I alleged violations of the Adamaon I
eight-hour law. The petition I
states that the complainant doei I
1 not knew the meaning or the ef- I
I feet of the law and aaks thst the I
I United Statei attorney for this 1
! district be required to stats his I
I purpose with respect to the en. I
I forcement of the law. The peti- I
i tion also asserts that the enforce- J
I ir-ant of the law would work I
I financisl hardihip on the railroad. I
I I
Tamowski Still in
Austria, England
Silent On Passage
Republican A. F. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Dec. l.The state
department Is awaiting with quiet con
fidence the response of the entente
governments to Its presentation of the
reasons why Count Tamowski, the
newly appointed Austrian ambassador,
and his suit, should be given safe con
duct on his mission to the I'nited
States. Although the department did
not make a specific request for such a
safe conduct, preferring to point out
what Is regarded as an inalienable
right rather than to appear as seeking
a favor. It was felt that the position
taken by the British government when
It sought and secured the release of the
confederate commissioners seized by
the I'nited States during the civil war,
would make It Impossible for that gov
ernment in particular to attempt to
deny the right of a neutral state to
maintain full and free diplomatic re
rations with a belligerent state.
It Is assumed, however, that Great
Britain may base Its acqulesance In
this case on a desire to accommodate
a friendly neutral state without com
mitting herself specifically to a rec
ognition of the academic right of free
movements on the high sea of diplo
matic representatives of a belligerent.
Germany Admits
Sinking Marina
Excuses Offered
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
Washington! Dec. 1. Following
the receipt today of a communication
from the Geiman governemtn admit
ting- that a German submarine tor
pedoed the British uorse ship Marina,
with the loss of six Americans. Sec
retary I.an.sing conferred with Presi
dent Wilson and it was decided that
no action would be taken by the
American government until it could be
definitely established whether the
Marici was a private vessel or a
belligerent ship.
In the note, Germany stated that the
commander of the submarine which
sank the Marina had reixirted that he
took the vessel for a transport and
askei! the I'n. led States for informa
tion on this point.
Count von Bernstorff. the German
am'.'iissndor. tailed at the Mate depart
ment during the day. and also sought
this ini'ti minion. He was told by
Secretarv Lansing. . that the I'nited
Stater, was. not in t position to answer
the inquiry, but world do so as i-uicklv
as possible.
As a result of the developments or
the day it was indicated by officials
(Continued on Page Seven)
MEXICAN AMBASSADOR ADMITS
BEAT OF TREVINO CLAIMING
LACK OF AMMUNITION GAUSE
f Renubbcan A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON, Dec, 1. Although
no official news of the rout of the and that repeated apiels from General merchant and farmer at Chihuahua
Cnrrana forces at Chihuahua by the Trevino for supplies have met with City. He was without money, as are
Villa bandits came to the slate or war ; little or no resHnse. It is said that more than 500 here now, and an appeal
departments today or to the Mexican Trevino at no tune has had enough . hH been sent to the Chinese ambassa
embassv. F.iiseo Arredondo. the ambas- ; ammunition to fight through a battle . j lor at Washington for funds to feed
ador-designate. after confecences with j What effect the ascendancy of Villa i these refugees.
Secretaries lousing and Baker, ex- will have on Ihe altitude of the United A Spanish subject also reaching tho
pressed the belief that the unofficial ; Slates, depends upon what progress l,.or(ler today gave the first details of
reports were true and ascribed the de- i Villa makes within the ni fen.- n-eet. tile fighting along Zarco avenue, which
feat of the Carranza forces to a lack
of ammunition and food rather than take to restore their control of the- nor
demoralization. I thern country.
Soon after Mr. Arredondo's visit to'
them. Secretaries Lansing and Ituker
separately conferred with 1'ret.ident
iisnn. No announcement was made,
V"
mai mere was some apprenension over
the situation which might confront
this government should Villa advance
north, as has N-cn predicted, take Jua-
rcz. and establish himself as a,de facto Ion prevails here that there will be no ' among the Spanish residents to the ef .
ai'thority aain -at the door, of the change In the American imlicy for the feet that General Luis Terrraza' mai
I ruled States. j present and that the next steps will be , ble palace, the brewery and many
...in a 111111(111 Kinieiinooi. (M.ssen-
sion of Juarex and Chihuahua might
lean to possession or .Monterey. aitillo
and Duranuo and practical military
control of the cast portion of northern
Mexico.
The most polent element w ith which ' PKTR'. tGRAD. Dec. 1, (via Iondi.n.) i transmitted to General Terrazas at his
Villa has to reckon in any such move- Dec. 2. The new Russian drive into home in EI Paso and was generally
merit Is the American punitive expedl- the wooded Carpathians, which began accepted as a fact until Senor Cisnie
tion in Mexico, spread out behind him three davs ago with the purpose of gas, the Spanish consul, made an in
and fully equipiied for any emergency, di' erting part of General von Falken- vestigation and discovered the report .
Officials here have not the slightest hayn'a troops from the Rumanian ' was started in El Paso and had mi'
fear of the ability of General Pershing front and preventing a further inva- foundation.
to proicct himself against any force of Rumania on the Transylvanian ! In anticipation of bandit attacks, the.
that miaht be brought against him. sl)e. Is a.-quinng momentum as it pro- Carranza government today had a large
Thy are more interested in w hat rt-ed"j The Jrte, reports say, now amount of army supplies, food and for
would be the attitude of the I'nited ' . devpl"Ptu in" oiwrations on a age shipped in wagons from Juarez
Slates government should Villa for
whose capture the expedition was sent,
Into Mexico, get between General l'er
sPIuk's force and the border line.
Thoe here well informed on Mexican
affairs declare that the shortage of am
munition among the Carranza defen
ders of Chihuahua City is entirely an
internal affair wllh the farranga gov
ernment, and is in no wise chargeable
to tbe embargo on munitions from the
I'nited States. They point out that
(ieneral Obregon. General Carranza's
first war minister, has long teen In
KEEP i RECORD
E
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
WASHINGTON. Dec. 1 Speaker
(lark said today that if congress
wanted to clean the legislative slate
and go home next Manh 4, be gladly
would Join in a movement to elim
inate useless oratory by cutting doA i
gallery space nnd abolishing the con
gressional record and to Introduce
voting machines.
"It Isn't Uifiiciilt to see that th
galleries wu the record cuuse an aw
ful waste of time and money," the
speaker declared today as he paused
in his efforts to outline u plan hor"
bv a session's work ran be done in
fi3 legislative days. "Any time that
the galleries arc full.; the orators on
the lloor are posing nnd wasting
time. And everybody knows tliT?
are any number of congressmen who
talk for Ihe recotd a great dial more
than is ncessary.
"The record is not necessary. The
English bouse of commons has none.
A Journal Is kept. Dr. Johnson uted
to write It aflr the day's proceed
ings were over. He simply recorded
who spoke and which side thej- were
on. '
"I haven't much hope, though, ttvt;
I would receive mirii support if 1
started to make a fight for smaller
galleiles and no record, so I wont
start It. But there is hope that the
present method of taking roll calls
will be abolished. It Is archaic anil n
time-waster."
Tbe speaker also favors reducing
tho house from 4:1a to :100 members
and holding it to tlHt number.
Minority leader Mann today ex
pressed the view and offered figures
to substantiate It that under no cir
cumstances evuld the dimociats novo
a majority In the next house, but
there was a chance for the republi
cans to lmve 218 members. IJ fur
ther said that he was not worrying
about the speakership and thought it
.would bo much more fun -to remain
on his present Job.
CONGRESS SHOULD
VOTE BY ill
VILLA BANDITS LOOT
BURN CHIHUAHUA
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
JUAKKZ, Dec. 1. Villa bandits were
reported to be loading two trains with
loot from the stores and private resi
dences of Chihuahua City and were
preparing to follow tnese trains west
on the Mexico Northwestern railroad,
according to a message received at mil
itary headquarters here tonight from
General Ozuna's scouts at Sauz.
General Ozuna's cavalry column was
at Cuilty, the first station north of the
state capital, the report said. The
scouts obtained their information from
refugees reaching Cuilly and Sauz from
Chihuahua City. This news was taken
at headquarters to indicate the inten
tion of Villa to evacuate the city after
looting it, as he did at Barral, Santa
Rosalia and Jiminez., General Trevino
was said by General Gonzales to have
been in Horcasitas yesterday awaiting
the arrival of General Francisco Mur
gnia's forces from the direction of
Camargo. south of Chihuahua City.
Villa made a speech against for-
eigne in Hidalgo plaza, following his
personal control of practically all the!
ammunition in the Carranza arsenals
and what steim th Carranzji f..rre
Villas sudden victory, coming at a
time when the protocol arranged by
the Mexican-American commission for
the withdrawal of the American exoe-
"twin aiaea en tne
noroer is uerore the two government
for action, has suddenly complicated
a troublesome situation, which seemed
on the way to settlement. The
guiucu oy oeveiopmenis. inciuoing
General Carranza's action on tiie pro- I
tocol signed at Atlantic City.
o
DRIVE GAINS FORCE
Teoubl can A. P. Leaaed Wire
lun" 8t;'"'' 1 m' important line of
large scale
communications from Kirlibaba to wagons were sealed by I'nited States
Maramaros-Sziaet Is under control of customs of ficers and placed under bond,
the Russian guns on the neighboring! Juarez is a military garrison to
crests. nicllt. All of the barracks lire fillei!
GUARDSMAN KILLED
Republican A. P. Leaaed Wire
EL PASO, Dec. 1. Corporal John A.1
Curry of Company M, 3ilrd Michigan
inianiry. oieci nere today irom me ei- PianKets wrapped to their ears. Offi
fects of a gunshot wound received last ; cers ride everywhere in automobiles
night. Isaac Coffee, a negro, is held in 'and carriages or walk along the main
Prison on a rharire of munler in eon- 1 . .
nection with the case.
Railroads to Send
More Box Cars Out
West WhereNeeded
ReDublican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK. Dec. 1 To afford
quick relief to the railroads which are
suffering much from a car shortage,
the American Railway Association to
day undertook to force a large number
of box cars from other sections of the
country to the south and west. An
nouncement was made here that in
structions had been issued to virtually
all railroads by the conference com
mittee on car efficiency of the nssoei;
tion directing them to turn over to their
southern and western connections more
box cars than were received In return.
This applies both to loaded and empty
cars.
Vnder these directions, it was an
nounced. New England railroads, which
have on their lines more cars than they
own, must turn over to their southern
and western connections 30 per cent
more cars than they receive from these
lines.
Railroads of the trunk lines and cen
tral freight territory and lines of the
central west, regardless of the number
of cars on their lines, were instructed
to send west and south 20 per cent
more cars than they receive in return.
Southern and western roads were re-Muy-ed
to give to their southern and
western connections 10 per cent more
cars than they receive.
Western railroads were directed by
the committee to discourage sending
to the Atlantic seaboard and New Eng
land freight which apparently cannot
be unloaded and disposed of on Its
arrival. Eastern roads were urged to
refuse to accept such freight from
other llneg or from shippers on their
own lines.
All railroads were directed to send
to the conference committee on car ef
ficiency nt Washington weekly reports
showing the number of cars received or
delivered to other roads, so as to in
dicate the direction in which the curs
were moved.
n announcing this action the com
mittee stated that It Is anxious to
"force a large number of box cars to
the west, northwest, south and south
west, where there is urgent need of
them,"
f occupation of the city, a Chinese far
mer and merchant who left Chihuahua,
City Wednesday morning at 10 o'clock,
said upon his arrival here early today
on a troop train. In his speech, Villa,
warned all residents of the city against
hiding any foreigners In their homes
and declared he intended to kill all for
eigners, the Chinese added. Villa also
said he intended to confiscate all for
eign property and give it to the Mex-
I leans.
The Chinese explained that he did not
hear Villa's speech, but was told about
it by a Mexican woman in whose house
he was hiding at the time Villa occu
pied the city. She returned to tell him
she could no longer shelter him, as she
was afraid of Villa's wrath if he discov
ered she was hiding a foreigner.
Before he could leave the house a
detachment of Villa's men came in, tho
Chinese said. They broke down the
door and started a search for him.
S when he ran out of a back door and
. esruneri to Vnmh ,i ru,,. .i..i.on
settlement near Chihuahua Citv He
said he saw Villa troops at the country
j home of Luis Terrazas. north of Chi
huahua, and these fired at the train
i which was leaving for the north but
j without casualties. He also said three
trains of troops escaped to Sauz Tues
day and ednesday, but all went back
with General Ozuna, the Chinese said.
He did not see any American, French,
German or British refugees at Sauz. he
said, but only saw numbers of Chinese
and a few Syrians.
He confirmed the killing of many
Chinese residents of Chihuahua City.
He said he saw at least fifteen dead in
the streets near where he was hiding
and he believed many others were
killed. He said the cannon on Cerro
Santa Rosa set fire to many houses in
the citv.
This Chinese citizen arrived here in
rags, although he was a prosperous
I was 8ai(1 to have been the fiercest of
any in the zone of battle. With his
family he lived on Zarco avenue and
said he saw the bandits as they charged
ana countercharged the government
position there, finally capturing the
ouaoaluia? church and the breast -
; works at Guadalupe bridge near tho
church." The bandits burned the i.ar-
jsh house amJ ,- moVed int.. tin.
; heart of the !v
I The Sm.nii.rH H,a J .i,ii.
nomes along Otampo avenue had been
burned by order of Villa. This report
was made to the owner or the Cliiliuar
hua brewery' by a Spaniard who claim
ed to have come by automobile fWm
Chihuahua City today. The report was
: across to the American side. The
with soldiers and the railroad yards
crowded with troop trains and parked
artillery; the streets swarm with Car-
ranza soldiers'
in the high crowned
i bats of the south, their bright colored
(Continued on Page Two)
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW Y't.iRK, Dec. 1. New high rec
ords in commerce and industry for Uie
month of November, with manufac
turers and traders pressed to the ut
most to supply enormous demands are
shown in a review of conditions made
public here tonight by Pierce Jay.
chairman of the Federal reserve liHiik-
of .'ew York. The report stales that
the further advance in prices which be-
gan three months ago, "lias developed
ilnto a widespread and rather specuia-
ue movement m commodities and se
curities. Referring to the high cost of living.
Mr. Jay says:
, tne average salaried man finds it
burdensome to meet the additional cost
of such necessities as food, clothing,
; footwear and roal. Merchants and large
. .... io ,.i law materials are uncertain
and anxious about making large impor
tant commitments. Manufacturers of
standard goods which sell at standard'
rates may be obliged to revise estab
lished terms."
.Pointing out that labor !s fully em
ployed at high wages, the review adds:
"It Is noted that saving is common
enough among the foreign clement, but
often remarked that other workmen
generally are spending too freely for
luxuries and not taking advantage of
an unusual opportunity to lay some
thing by for a rainy day."
Comparing statistics of October, BUS,
with the same month a year ago, it is
shown that building In New York City
represented !ll,f42.SS0, an increase of
2.1 50.253. and failures in New York
state numbered liU with liabilities of
11.843.631, a decrease of 13s failures
and ,113.r.l0 in liabilities.
"With the approach of winter the la
bor situation is expected to be some
what easier as certain outside activittes
will close during cold weather," tin)
statement declares.
BREAKERS All
RICH WAGES ARE
TRROWK TO WINDS
