OHIO STATE
UNIVERSITY .
DEC 4 1916
LIBRARY
INDEPENDENT
NON-PARTISAN
Js&
S ' ,"m7n-
Official Organ of the Building Trades Council of Cincinnati and Vicinity
CINCINNATI, OHIO, DECEMBER 2, 1916
Vol. IV. No. 33
One Dollar a Year
-v- arj rprsTii' . x .
Kroger5 s Clerks Work For Pittance
Employees Toil From Nine to Fifteen Hours a Day, as Grocer Piles Up Profits, The Peoples
Press, Edited By Herbert Bigelow, Gives a Good Idea of the Working Conditions
of the Unfortunates Who Are Compelled to Work for Kroger.
Wives of workingmen who patronize
the Kroger Company's stores probably
do not know that they arc helping to
perpetuate a great labor-crushing es
tablishment by their purchases.
Probably if they knew the wages which
the Kroger clerks-and drivers get they
would feel that they should, even at a
sacrifice, buy their foodstuffs at places
where a "live and let live" policy was in
vogue.
The People's Press is going to give
the people of Cincinnati the facts, and
they can act as they see lit. We do not
say what they should do, but we know
what1 every Christian should do under
the circumstances.
Worked Like Machines.
In the one hundred some odd Kroger
stores in Cincinnati young men and
women are being driven to nervous ex
haustion as truly as if they were the
human wheels in some big factory where
the iron pulleys and gears set the pace
for the workers.
Prom !) to l." hours a day (it is stated,
however, that the !)-hour day for the
women clerks is fairly well observed),
they rush to supply the insistent demands
of the public, who must be fed as quick
ly and as cheaply as possible in the in
terest of profits.
And when the week is ended and they
dr.a)vhyrtliyidspniwstineiuls,voftQ,uhcJ
uyc lui-uii: iiia, nil. t-ui. Ky.tiy 1111.1,
tenement homes and sleep sweetly, se
cure in the possession of at least one
day when they can sit down while the sun
is shining.
Drivers Are Striking.
Hut while the Kroger clerks are hav
ing their very lives ground out in the
mill of profits without murmur, the driv
ers of bis delivery wagons are on strike.
They are trying to better their condi
tions. They feel that it is not fair for
them to have to work from 12 to l."
hours per day at wages of from $!) to
$1(1 per vcek while Kroger stock hovers
around 280 and dividends pile up for its
holders.
They appreciate the injustice of having
the deliveries heaped upon them so high
that out of their meager wage they must
in many cases employ a small boy to
help them cover the territory which they
must get over if they would hold their
jobs. These and other abuses must be
corrected, say the striking drivers, and
the people of Cincinnati should stand
with them in their demands.
Pomtlar sunnort of this strike need not
be taken to mean apptoval of any meas
ures of violence which the drivers arc
alleged to have committed. Public sen
timent can afford to overlook the mis
deeds of a few hotheads at such a time
because of the serious purpose of the
great mass of the strikers for justice.
Kroner Mornlly, Kesponsiblc.
Mr. Kroger who, it, is reported, con
trols 70 per cent of the stock of these
stores, is no more responsible for the
present profit system of society than any
other citizen, except by reason of the
power which his millions give him to
control the information which people re
ceive through the newspapers.
Hut he is morally responsible for the
crushing of the health and lives of tht
people who work for him. lie may not
see the injustice .underlying our whole
system of society, but be can hardly fail
to see the injustice of giving his em
ployes a pittance while his, profits mount
to the skies.
Samuel Jones, of Toledo, was an em
ployer of labor who believed' in doing the
square thing by his help. At the same
time he was doing his best to change our
social order so that it would be easy for
men to live the Golden Utile in evcrj
sphere of life.
We don't expect Mr. Kroger to fol
low the Golden Rule as Sam Jones of
Toledo, did in both individual and social
relations, but we do expect him to apply
it ot his dealings with his help.
And if he's not enough of a Christian
to do it because it's the right thing to
do, then he should do it because it will
pay him in dollars and cents. People's
Press.
.. I WWJK'j; Z'maszfirTT. ttts mrrwsmtyaa
& J
tfr -
WIIjMAM .1. KPKXCKIt,
Secretary-Treasurer, liuilding Trades Department,
of Labor.
NOVEMBER WAS ACTIVE
MONTH FOR BUILDING
Permits Kor Structures Valued at
$1,000,000 Were Granted.
liuilding permits for the construction
of property valued at $1,01)0,000, in
Greater Cincinnati, were issued during
November, according to the building re
port, which shows a gain of $."i0,0.")0 for
the month, compared with the same
period last year. In Cincinnati and vi
cinity a total of 1,:U3 building permits
were granted for buildings value at
$'.)!(i,SlS. In Cincinnati proper 1,200 per
mits were issued for $3-i2,SlS worth of
property. Norwood gave 25 permits and
St, Bernard, Newport, llcllcvtic, Dayton,
Ft. Thomas and Covington, Ky., con
tributed the rest of the activity.
BUTCHERS TAKE ACTION
The Butcher Workmen's Union No.
2.'!2 at its last meeting placed Jacob Mil
ler, 107 W. Liberty, and A. Amliug, 0-11
W. Mc.Micken, on the "We Don't Pat
ronize" list. It was also' reported that
only (id meat shops out of 1,-tflO have
refused to close on Sunday.
now ,
'XO-STKIICI
WOUKK.
LAW
Denver. Mailers' Union No. S is "en
joying" a first-hand view of the opera
tion of Colorado's "no-strike" law, -which
makes it illegal for workers in this State
to strike before their case has been in
vestigated by a State industrial commis
sion. The mailers prcsented their demand
for a 5 per cent wage increase to the
conimission nearly four months ago.
.Now' the commission tells these workers
it has no money to investigate the books
of the newspapers for the purpose of
finding out whether the newspapers can
pav the demand.
And if the mailers strike they will be
jailed.
UKM''' B "-'! '
.,. f3
American Federation
BUILDING TRADES COUNCIL
The liuilding Trades Council
meet last Thursday, owing to
Thanksgiving day.
did not
it being
laiu;kii pav iixvklophs
llriug
Increase in Alcoholism and
Desertions in Pittsburg'.
Pittsburgh, Pa. Acute poverty, due
to inability to obtain work, disappeared
from Pittsburgh one year ago, but the
prosperous condition of business in this
district has resulted in a decided in
crease in the number of charity cases
resulting from the use of alcoholic
drinks and the desertion of families, ac
cording to the annual report of the As
sociated Charities.
"There seems to be a relation be
tween the great demand for labor and
the increase in drinking in that the
worker feels if he loses one job on ac
count of intemperance it will be easy
to find another," the report says.
"The association finds the large pay
envelope has led to family desertion in
many instances in fact, desertion in
creased very decidedly last year."
"ItAISK" CJ1VKX 10,000 MUX.
South Bend, Iud. The Oliver Chilled
Plow Company, Misbawaka Rubber
Regeneration and Misbawaka Woolen
Manufacturing Company have an
nounced voluntary increases in wages
to employes aiuountini to 10 per cent.
About 10,000 men are affected. The in
crease is the second made bv the Misba
waka Woolen Company within a year.
High cost of living is given as the rea
son for the increases.
PXl-WIK MKTIIODS ('IIAIUJHD.
Nashville, Teun Officials of the rail
road brotherhoods, whose members,
employed by the Nashville, Chatta
nooga & St. Louis Railway, are voting
on a strike proposition, issued a state
ment charging that the road was em
ploying unfair means to prevent the
men from voting their convictions.
Law to Be Invoked By Labor
If Inquiry Into "Third Degree" Tactics Justifies Step.
Committee Taking Affidavits Regarding Alleged
Treatment of Prisoners By Police.
Affidavits renardinu alleged "third-1
degree" tactics in the Cincinnati Police !
Department are being obtained by the
Legislative Committee ot Central Labor
Council, according to its report at a
meeting of the Council last Tuesday
night.
The committee said if the investiga
tion justifies the action, legal procedure
will be recommended to eliminate the
third degree.
Teamsters' Union, 'Local 100, presented
the following resolution, which was in
dorsed bv council:
"That 'Hon. Charles A. Groom, City
Solicitor of the city of Cincinnati, be
requested not to delegate, nor permit his
siilinrillniites tn delegate, the duties ot
the Prosecuting Attorney of the Police
Court to private individuals or private
counsel, but to require" prosecutions to
'Lhicr.nd'JCtedajv.illSuOilCai.ViUAi.Cll'U,
1 - -..-. -!... - . ". . . . .V.
"f.rilrventiD"Jof:'privatc counser'nof un
der bond and not answerame io me
people of Cincinnati for their acts.
O'UXllUAL STI5IKK TO FOLLOW
Walk-Out of 2,500 nothing; Work
ers in Italtimore.
Baltimore, Md Nov. 2S. The fore
runner of a big strike of clothing work
ers will begin tomorrow morning, when
2,:0l) pants makers affiliated with the
Amalgamated Clothing Workers of
America are to sjrike for all eight-hour
dav and a 1.". per cent wage increase.
Onlv the contract shoos will be af-
fectcd at this time, but within the next ,
lew weeks the organization will maie
similar demands on all inside shops ol
the big clothing factories of Baltimore
With but two exceptions every shop in
Baltimore thaflets out its work on con
tracts will be tied up.
llyman Blumberg, local manager of
the Amalgamated and a member of the
Executive Council, today said the ac
tion was decided upon at a meeting held
Monday night at Amalgamated head-
quarters.
:
A KlXdlXd APPKAL.
Chicago. 1
Hold Fast! Keep I
Together! Don't Quit!" is the ringing
anpeal of Victor Olander, secretary
Illinois State Federation of Labor, to
trade unionists of this State, who are
urged to stick to their unions, keep
every local committee intact and pre
pare for the coming session oi the
State Assembly.
"Just a word of caution of want
ing," concludes Ulander. "Don't at
tempt to add Too much additional ma
chinery to your local movement don't
organize independent of volir local
unions don't even adopt titles for local
committees that would indicate any
thing in any way separate from the
regular trade union organizations.
Keep within the labor movement under
the direct jurisdiction of the central
body and local unions of your vicinity.
Remember that nothing has brought
us into closer contact with each other,
nothing has aroused in us am greater
enthusiasm, faith, trust and lovalty to
one another, than has our union, our
trade organization, in which we discus
and act upon our immediate affairs as
workers."
PKIXTHItK IXCKKASH WAd'KS.
Duhith, Minn. Typographical union
has raised wages $1.00 a week as a re
sult of conferences with newspaper man
agers. Day workers are increased from
$211 to $24.50 a week and night workers
from $20 to $27.30 a week.
"The intent of this resi ution is not
to ask the City Solicitor to refuse the as
sistance of any individual or counsel in
any prosecution, but merely to request
that such private counsel shall not be
permitted to perform in open Court the
duties which the City Solicitor and his
assistants are by law, and under their
sworn obligation, obliged to perform in
the name of, and on behalf of, the cit
of Cincinnati and the State of Ohio."
It was announced the Boot and Shoe
Workers' Union. No. 222, had reached
a settlement with the Boot and Shoe
Manufacturers' Association as to a pro
posed new wage agreement.
Under the new pact employees in
lasting departments of 22 Cincinnati
shoe manufacturing concerns are granted
a substantial increase in wages, it was
reported; C. Ii-wBaine..-. Boston., general
workers union, assisted .the Cincinnati
union in its negotiations with the em
ployers. OKKd'OX I'XIOXISTS WIX.
OKmpia. Wash. The power of or
ganized labor in this State was shown
in the defeat of all referendum measures
and a constitutional amendment at the
recent election.
One proposal would destroy the direct
legislation law by compelling all persons
to sign petitions in the registration of
fices and before a registration officer
This would mean that before a farmer
could sign a petit'on he would have to
lournev to Ins registration place aim
wolHj eml tjle practice of petitions being
signed in lactones
The anti-pickcting law was also de
feated. This was passed by the last leg
islature, but the unionists demanded that
it be submitted to a referendum before
enforcement. The act made it unlawful
to publish any facts concerning any labor
difficulty. Picketing was not only pro
hibited, but it was a crime for any per
son to even carrv a newspaper contaui-
. j, a statcn,cnt 0f acts about any labor
troubles.
' This legislation was urged by the
Manufacturers' association.
siiip iiriLDixc;
IX v. s.
Washington. The seamen's law is no
longer a bogey man to ship owners, as
the federal department of commerce
1 states that S sailing, steam, gas and
i unrigged vessels, aggregating 403,504
gross tons, were built in the United
States during the 10 months ended No
vember 1. In addition, there were con
' structed for foreigners :t(i wooden ves
! sels of .'172 gross tons and 11 steel ves
. sels of 2.-1.4KS gross tons. Of the total
tonnage, 2S-t.ii.iS tons were steam eraii.
oimkct to ri!i:i:zixj cold.
Omaha. The Plasterers' union has is
sued a rule that between November 1
and April IS plasterers will not work in
an Open building and that the windows
must be put in.
'Some contractors are objecting to this
attempt of workers to shield themselves
from wintry blasts. They say plaster
dries better in this kind of weather
Besides, it is not always zero weather
during the prescribed period, aver thesi
contractors. , ,
HOHSICSIIOKRS OIKJAXIZK
Danvil'e, 111, Journeymen horseshoers
in this city have organized after months
of persistent work on the part of a few
active spirits who refused to get discouraged.
ill
111
J
m
r-r2J
