THE WEEKLY MESSENGER.
ALL K\l:': OF JOB PRINTING o J USTICE TO ALL - SUBSCRIPTION $1,0X) PER ANNUM
VoLrI: XXxI. ST. MARTIINVILLE, LA.. DECEMBERl 2 191(. NUMBER 41
VOLI',: xI . ST ASrSSVLE A. EI[IEI.2 9!. NUMBeR 41l
    ..A---v--- --- - . . . . . . . . . . . . .
eHRISTMAS GIFTS.
For a gift that will give greatest satisfaction to the recipient you
should select some article of
JEWELRY
You will find in our Holiday stock many things that will be
especially pleasing.
.... - We have appropriate gifts to fit any price
you wish to pay. An examination of our
stock will assist you in the preparation of your
7 list of Christmas purchases.
i FRANK F. FOTI
1 ~P'HT JEWE1.ER, BRIDGE STREET, ST. MARTINVILLE
Frmers' Short Course
January 8-19, 1917
The eighth annual Farmers'
Short Course in Agriculture at the
Louisiana State University will
open Janl. 8, 1917, and continue 'l
through .Jan. 19. There will be
eleven days of lectures and demon
strationM by eminent agriculturists
in agronomy. animal husbandry,
dairying. poultry, horticulture and U
other subjects of interests to the
farmer; deumonstrations with im
proved furrm machin ery and imple
ments; special instruction iu the
control of animal diseases, such as v
hog cholera, ch:Lrbom. tuberculosis, t
and iu, tick eradication; explanmt
tions anld observations inI road
building: and discussions in which t
all may take part. t
The U'mmt'efsity nmakes no charge
of any kitdI for the instruction. t
The railronl c'ompanies make low t
round-tri, ar es for the benefit of
those who wi,lh to attend tie Short
(Course. I;oald many he ,tainved
in Baton 1, a,,e at r' ,asoblldle rates.
A cireculr containinmmg full in
formnttin atl the pr~.rsrauuI in detl
tail will I i- suied 1 nrlv in Decet
her. Write, to Professor WV. 1.
Dodo,m, I),.al. College of Agricul
itre, L,. S. I.. for a copy of it.
Sloan's Liniment For Neuralgia Aches
TIhn dull attn . of nturaIgla i quiciekly
relie'vrd ley Sload's Liniuai et , the uni
Wprial reu i,,v f,,r patio. E isv to apply;
it qultiim . i. t , tr e with i t i ub' bit
amill sotih' I h r , sr nlt l'4i's. Ileant r
land moiei plm ,llptly fftetive tiihan Dlut
mV plale a melll tlll'llts; ldotes It stlaill'
thl skin r I1c, the Ipirrs. For stiff
mIuscles. Cht' le, " thturl Itiaull. ol ut,
lilulIn agl. ,i , '.n~ alld strllus It gives
quirk 4Ih-4. m.zall:'t 1 tl'11 i -Ie t redures
thl pain anl, iit l 't tioll il intser t
bits, rui'P-e. I unips and oltlhef minor
itljliri. to rialhlran. S .it a bottle tuloday
at your drugtt!. 2Ie.
SE;hTTI NG FASTER.
The well known saying "safety
first. which mi.t the eye at every
turn. has beoiime a Iback number.
It is now - speed first." and the
darned thira is getting faster.
Franklin Watchman.
We do all kinds of Printing
Mayor's Notice. J.
Owing to the dry ieason and th1 dan
ger of fir on account of dry gra,, in
yarld and stlewalkq. Notice is hereby
given to all that all dry gtass in yards
and ,zidewalks and all rubbish be relUov- anJ
ed from premises,. by noon on the l11th to
of i)ecember. All who will fail to oh- tfi
.erve thiq grass ordiuance by that date. is
will be brought before the Mayor's court
to answer for this neglect.
This ordinance will be attietly e:,force.
ALBERT IIENVENU. Mayor.
Dec. 2. 1916. I
Damage From Field Fires.
--o lin
We learn that several building in
were burned near 'Pointe Claire t
this week by somne planters setting
tire to their tields and not watch.- i
ing the fire from burning over to y,
their neighbors. It seem. s to us
that no field should be set on fire
at this time utnless every precau
tion has been taken to insure that
the fire can be safely controlled.
I We hear great damage from tiree
,everywhere around here. There I
is a law to that effect and those
who are guilty of blurning othert
- peoples plroperty should be made
1to standt the consequencetlllCs.
The Unprofitable Acres. L
()11n mihaly farlins thelre atre waste ]
lta.ies where little II' tn r,.clnue
S under present eonditions are avail- f
P able. These waste places require
- taxes; they reduce the protit by re
l; quiri zg their part of the maintain
antIce cost of the farlll.
Many of tlheset may I. brought
Sinto culti ation. or improved as the I
if case Itiny be, soI lo'rIre will be re
. ceiv'ed front them. Sount' of the
I lw, wet places may 1e drainedl;
hillside acres 1may be terraced; thin
StILacres nurl',Id oIr fertiliz'ed. Thius
1y there is lan opportunity to bring
the tunprofitalle acres into prlita
le productiou.n or at least increase
their yield, thus reducing the loss
an account of them.
S A highly profitale' farm will re
} 1 quire a large per cent of its acreage,
r. to be profitable. Even on the best
IC of farims there are likely to be acrta
that could be improved which
would of course increase the pro
g fits.-Texas Farm and Ranch.
J. G. Durand Fish and
Game Agent.
--0--
Mr..1. (G. Durand was this week
appointed by Gov(. Pleasant agent
for tilth Conseivation of bird and
fish for St. Martin parish. This
is a good appointment.
STOP THAT COUGH
A hacking cough weakens the whole
-vstem, drains your enegll and gets
worse if neglected; your throat li raw.
your chest aches and ot feel hors all
over. Relieve that cold at once with
Dr. King's New l)iscotery. 'rhe sooth
ing pine talsatas heal the irritated
nmembralnes, and the antiseptic and lax
ative qualities kill the germs and break
up your cold. Don't let a cold linger.
tiet Dr. Kiug's New Discovery to-dav at
your druggist. 50e.
Hurt In Fall.
Mr. Sherniumt, engineer in charge
of the foundation for the crude oil
engine for the town electric plant
met with a painful accident ldst
Saturday by falling into the deep
Shole timade for the foundation, he
e was unconscious for a short time
iafter the fall, he received no seri
lous injury. but was confined to
bed for several days.
e YOU SHOULD FEEL 100 pc TO-DAY
c You cniit meet the tlday's work c'teer
I fully fee iug bilious. Dull headachel
coated tongue, had breath are 1igils that
indicate iourr liver is uvei worked ,r loaf
iog. In either c;ase viui tie«d Po-DL)-Ilax.
' N:,ure's liver regulator. derived from
the May apple. By stinmulating the flow
it of bile, Po-o-ax itmakes work easter
f, r your liver, and by its mldl laxative
_lquality remoweis the Impus ities that clog
the i!ltestinee. At all drutggi lts .0c.
;,i Automobile Accident.
is W\V' learned that Mr. and Mrs.
Louis V. Labia and Miss
a- gAnt;rs met with a serious
se naeident Sunlay evetning last when
s theiir aut,,omobileh struck one of tthe
hlilan'.e pi'ce of the gate of the
-- railroad whiiej was across the road
6e and not seen by Mr. Labbl , the
st top) struck the heavy timber and)
'I the car war turnled ovel', both Mr.
cht and Mrs. Labbe and Miss Angers
,J w; ; 1: ..', but not very seriously.
The car was demolished.
PRESENTS FOR ALL
Practical gift that will make glad the hearts
of all. Our display will soon be made of all
kinds of rich, beautiful, dependable Holiday
furnishing larger and more varied than
ever before, at popular prices. We extend
you a cordial invitation to look over our stock
DUCGHAMP HARDWARE
COMP7ANY
All Grades of
TYPEWRITING PAPER
Cut any size desired at this office
SOUTHERN PACIFIC LINES
TO THE
WEST
The lost Romantic Railroad Journey in America
A thousand wonders to enjoy thru open windows; automatic
electric Safety Signals; (il Burning Locomotives; No Cin
ders, No Dust; Thru Dinning and Obse)ervation Cars.
Stop-over and take the marvelous autQ side trip over the
APACHE TRAIL of Arizona, en route to or from CALI
FORNIA. Write for Apache Trail Book.
"SI'NSET LIMITED"-NO EXTRA FARE
From New Orleans Daily 11 A. M.
Quickeet Time to San Francisco
-VIA
Houston, San Antonio, El Paso, Tucson, Los
" Angeles, San Francisco
UNXECELLED DINNING CAR SERVICE
S For Information, ask any Southern Pacific Agent, or write
W. H. STAKELUM, JO. HELLEN,
I)ivi-iou PI' s.uger Agennt. ('nrl Psageonr Agent
'When you visit New Orlean stop at
i Laizaire Bienvenu THE INN HOTEL
" Caroudelet and Perdido street
FIRE NEW ORLEANS, LA.
d JUosTm V. DINEca UD. Proprietor.
2 INSURABNCE AGENT viCo I,. Mana.g,.er
.COOD CONPANIES EUROPEAI PLAH, Rtes $1,00 ud ap.
r Latest Improvemnta.
ST. MAITINVILLE. LA. OENTRAIILY LOCATED
