The True Democrat.
VOLUME XXV IT. PRANCISVILLI, W VST FPLICIANA PARISH, LOUISIANA, SATURDAY, DECEMBER 2. 1t11 NO. 44
I • fi l I l Lb "I_ _ i nI iL -  III IIIIIRI I IIIL · I IIII - ' I - IIi1111 -l~ l Ill IItll l r NI Il-m i
ONE-4NT LEtiER
P)STAGE COMING
'rThe aays are noaw ieing greased for
the' launchinlg f the mlovenlllnt for the
readjustment of po stal rates in the next
seeasion of o('engret'e 'Thl. pr(oble'n wat.
to have lhe'een taken, up int the last seetl
sltI1 but had to1 hie deferred on a'ccoutl
of the' corrlideraltion requiretd hi rail
riv inail aa ill'ce' this hlas hee'n
distposed of the cormmittees are prlr
pared to ake ulp the' matter of placing
tIle larious poItal rates on a more
e'quitable basis.
A so1es' s)-tem of rates for second.
tla+ts moltter is hibing promlinently iurged
to take' the' place of the' preseint flat
ratel w hih was adoped nearly forty º
!eara al') The present rate, has for
somel, time' beenl regarded as a dise'rlmi
atliotl agtllailt the ne*wspapers In faeeer
of lthe great national magazines Ilike,
IItI, parcel post the proposed Zone rates a
eultId he lbee d on the leIngth of the' I
haul It
The postal 'colitlllttes, haI te been'i Ib.
sieged by p'titions te'aring millions of •
Ilnames antd several ihundtred thousallnd
lettersI frnmt inditviduarl urgingt a rc t
adjultillll'ent of postal rates, a ith a ,le
sof mtakinlg possible oule-r.nt le'ter post
age' A sutrvey olf the situation indilcates
that suficrient chattges will be made in l
the various rates to permit the grant
,tig of a on-c(ent rate on local deliverv
letters in the next session of ('ongretsl
'hairman Mooetn of the House Postal
('om)nittre. says "I think that the I
'omnllltitte' will take utp this second
ilarns mIall natter at h I' n Iext iestlon
tIlld pIre'ss  if to a tonllljOl l lt oate(n
W'hile I canltnot speak feor the' commlrit
º'-' this is Itmy d-esire in the Imaltter I I
elio not know what kind of a bill wei
a Ill pass, whether IIt ill have a zone'
feature attached to it or nolt This t i' I
has eell pleaented frequently in years
past. and n.:metimes received favor
anrd sontetlmlp r'ot As to what shape
t.he egishltlaoin w tl ib in I am not able
to sa), but I ant sure the committee
SIIl give It the bet possible shape in
tile' puihile iinterestll
('onlgressnan Austin of Tennessee
lsays "if the leaders of Congress would
e" iti s inenibers tn opportulilty to
vote on the proposition the Auertican
peeoild.' l 1u1iild be givent a general on
reint i'ltte'r postagei without further
ilay 'ther. is no reason why any
le'rsoti ealing a letter should be
forcet' to iay ll tax of one cent of every
Istc lgp4141. the, e'stimt ated profit to the
ltrertiettelnt for handling a letter"
THE NAVAL. OPFICIR.
TIh+, electlon of ,ex (ov J Y Sanders
to (',itngress front the Sixtlh district will
create a vacancy in the position of
Naval Oficter of thlis district on March
4 or ei wner it Mr Sanders seet fit to
restign
At the, atlnutll 'conferernce of customsTII
,fi'ilais held this week in New York,
Vranik M llailtead. ('hief of the ('ius
tlInis I)vlson of the Treasury D)epart
lient. urged that the ot.'e hbe abolished,
anld there' a Illl naturlly be consider
'hdde curiosity to learn whether his
Ie'.inllilnendatlill as inspired b) the
~eninistraftion If aso Secretar) Mc
tllºe lihas changed his mind Mr Mc
Oelnese last year recommended that the
till,' ought to be changed to ('Customs
\diitor anid the powers of the Auditor
etltrtged
1'he omle was created by the second
art psa-, id by ('ongres. July 4, 1789
Itlt its ' lie has alwa~s been mislead
tig Thi Naval Offier has nothing to
do withi the, Navy Ile performs only
the dit ,f t, r'onit roller of iCustoms
it l ce' t l1 1i.. i , i % tict w·here the ofee
has existed for 'centurie lie simply
nedlits the collections of custom dutiesu
rher, airt seven Naval Officers In the
I nited States
S. I. Reymond Co. Ltd.
Baton Rouge, La.
New Store Corner Third and Florida Sts.
OUR GREAT CHRISTMAS SALE
will begin December Ist and continue to Dec. 23.
Come to Baton Rouge to do your Christmas shop
ping. It will pay you. In our beautiful new store we
have on display thousands of suitable and useful
articles for Christmas presents. We are making
special prices during this sale. We maintain our
reputation of selling the best merchandise and our de
partments are better equipped than ever to serve you.
Dry Goods, Ladies' Suits, Coats and Dresses,
Furs and other wearing apparel. Men's and
Boys' Clothing and Furnishings. Men's and
Women's Shoes. Men's and Women's Hats.
Agents for the Aeolian Vocalion.
THE HIGH COST OF LIVING
THwE MIDUDLMAN A ICAPEQOAT.I,
i ('hlcao Public I
The newspapers generally put the
report of President Wilson's address
to the National (Irange on the high cost
of foodstuffs. under headlines, which
live the reader to understand that he
holds the middleman responsible. Pos
sibly this was the President's meaning
But, if so, he did not express his views
as clearly as he usually does Hlis words
were
"We ougbt to raise such big crops
that circumstahnces like the presenlt can
never recur, whe.n men can make it
appear as if the supply was so short
that the middleman colld charge for
it what he pleased "
This seems to mean nothing more
than that a state of affairs has been
created which makes it possible for the
middleman to charge what he pleases
The accuracy of that statement need
not be discussed here Even if acct
rate, it does not put responsibilty on
the middleman, since it does not charge
him with ereating the conditions from
whlch he derives his alleged benefits
The real responsibility was indicated
i) the P'r'9idenit further on in his
addr.es The was in the following
passage
"in the futuri we have got to bring
more of the area of the United States
under cultivation than is under culti
vation now We have got to increase the
Iproduct at every point where It Is
susceptible of being increased."
The inference to be drawn from this
is that high prices are due to lack of
production, and production is short be
cause. there isa not as much of the area
of the t'ntted States under ultilvation
ais tihere should be That cannot bs
!cured by striking ait the middleman
lie is not responsible for withholding
land from cultivation it is the land
F. owner who does that, and even he is
not always responsible
Bo long as conditions are allowed to
1e exist that make cultivation of land less
s profitable than withholding it from
it use, so long will there be much of it
withheld. The Federal Oovernment is
not in as lgood a position as the State
'' governments to apply the remedy to
kthis situation The remedy that is
: needed is abolition of all taxes on Im
i provements and other products of in
dustry, and the placing of all taxes on
a land values That would reverse con.
.i ditions no as ito make it less profitable
it to withhold land from use than to put
it it to its most productive use Although
ir this re'form would require cltion by lhe
States, the l"ederal goiernmsent is not
* altogether powerless It is true that
n the substitution of a land value tas for
p tariffl, xei.s and incomae taxes cannot
i reasonably be expected from the pres.
d n't ('ongress or its newly elected sue
t. ceaor Rlt it is reasonable to ask that
n Conlgti~e pass the ('rosser hill That
p would hi!ng partial relief
n The ('roser hill would put upon the
remaining public lands unemployed
d men and others dtesiring to go The
l government would provide irrigation
works. and under supervlsion of tits
agents the men1 in nleed of instructlion
would he taught farming land would
not be sold or donated but would be
leased to workers The improvenments
they would put thereon would be free
from taxation Thius would he rta tb
Slished a system under which cultivators
would pay no taxes on the products of
their industry, while the government,
by retaining title to the lands would
take for public uise land values created
a by the pulhi's Thus would be brought
.under cultiiation snore of the Ires of
the country The Pri aidetnt has made
clear the duty of Congressl to icass this
measure, and of the States to enact the
(chanaes In the tax laws that would
have similar results
SOME ADVANCEI HARD TO
JUSTIFY.
IMlit. o lport J,1Irthnl t
rThii,e F roliiati %%ar is blmlli'ed frr
tuiilCh that it is not re-sptonsrille- for W'e
canrnot get I thropugh otlr he'ad, for in
statte'. wi) pr.ces of gaLrden piroducits
raised u ithin ci few mlles of Shreve.'
Ilort tia'e auht ski ward becaulse a
angaiuiitary struggle.a is t proigr.,es
thousands of mitles away What ps tl
aihle connection can there be between
the lu ropelani war anid the fact that our
local truck gardener wheo formerly sold
Irish potatoes by the bushel lnow sells
them hv the poutlnd? What have Vn
Itindenburg. Joffre aid Nicholas to do
with the price of ('addogrown vege
Itables" With those who have things
to ewll, the' Wuropean war appears to
be an obsession Or, rather, it is an
elcenl. for goIging the helpless con.
ECONOMIZE.
INew tOrlaans State's I
Markred nl(r'rtase' of elxports of food
lroduits to th' w aLrrtillg ialtlIonsl is the
S lexcuse gIlia by pa'cke'ra aind others for
the soaring ,prices (f foodlatalfs in this
I coUltt r Thie "plianation., howe'ver, is
o it lboric oat thi n cr!titcl "atitnAtion
I e'f the' official iguare'
'1 Aumtisiu o.ie i l If a tlie' ii t nltted
.tmtlhoriten on the sublject and now
statistician of tlhe lorelgn ltrade' depart
Iiient of the- Nattoltal 'ily Iank, has
ilLad, a c.',lhptlrisotin olf this ye.ar a'
figures with last aid shows that there
laa been a falling off imn lhippneelts
Satther thain ait ilcreasec
- Mr Auatlin tys that It is iuot to be
illapute'd that Iht, iacreraseed delanlilld
lromn abroad during the, twlletly eight
miollnthls of tlhe war is respoltieihle flot
the higher cnst cit fetHl it this to'liiittr)
.s Ilthe conalcstillticol grow, pri's.l te iiclil
ially will rise uIt in the light if tlit
icoparprilsoll tshowli he doe,si tct be'llhe'v
itsat the exe'lsl ie Jiunipa in price'.s ltiar
i Ill the past few weeks aire justifiable
As a matter of fact thel y are nIot Tlhe
lbnollral in crleases are lmere'lIy narbl
trary oni the' part rf those who have
tIhe productls to ells asnd are eagelr Ito
SqlieezL' all the profits thlIe caln tolit of
the innocent consuttmer
rih conlisimer can protect htltnself
to siomc exltent by 'conolly The (ov
Irnment may fitnd a way to glive him
furrther relief by measttres which will
reac h those wlho are elevatlng prices
(itit oi f simple greed
--- --i---
UIod has liven the earth in c'o1mmoi
to arll that they nllght passi their life it
common. not that mad and raginlg
anvarice milht clalin all thin.. for it
seltIf; but that thalt w·hich was produced
Sfor all mtight not be wanting to any.-
tietuatius, Divine lIatltutes (S00A.D.)
Long Time
Farm Loans
We are ready right now to lend up to 54) per cent
of the value of your Farm or Plantation on terms of
REASONABLE INTEREST
under our 5 to 10 year repayment plan whereby
the loan is diminished a given amount each year.
Our Service is Prompt and Efficient
No Excessive Charges-No Unnecessary Delays
Bankers' Loan & Securities Co.,
JABl L. WRIGHT, Preeldernt
R. S. SISHOP. VP, Mgr. Mortgage Loan Dept.
Capital $1,500,00.00 NEW ORLEANS
MAIL THIS COUPON
Loan Wanted $ ................. for . . . . . . . )'ars
Security Offered ........................... ...
N a m e . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Addreass ............................................
True I'cemo rat
i - - 1 II I I II IIia l iii ii
YOU AND THE MAIL ORDER
HOUSE.
(Ruston leader I
4re. you going to patrontie the mall
order housesl this year am perhaps many
of you did last y+e.vr' Or are you going
to if nteceasary. 0et on make, a alight
M.acriflce arnd stick to hrnoe people'
WhePIce cantl the imoley that )ou
lar irntrnding to send to that manil
iirdtir toncern'tIl Did it conrme from theIl
city In lhichl that concern is located'!
Not by a long shot if you are a farner
it iA the product of the oila What soil'
W'h' tho toiol of your community Now,
you. an a practical farnmer, knot full
'II the' retalit of the ruinousa practice
o1f taking 0%eelything from 'r011r indl
tildi PItllltrl In liothigll to it 10 o1 kiltf
thief th(il practice' 1itact Iwitner or later
imiplovlerliah y~ter roil andi dilestroy Fyour
soutrci of Ilnetivn
1'#n'tI 1oll 1"f'ltiP lilt III welliJilig
your mloney away froint hMonel )tiou ar
(doingl to the Pomlniltlity just what youl
%ould not think of doing to your farm
robbing it of its prodmlltive Iowier'
'You certainly are REr'rv dollar sent
away front your commutnity robs it of
juIt that imtuch of its power for good
Hut perhaps you are not a farmer,
but a mechanic or trader Then the
responsibility rests eve.n more heavily
,upoln )you to kep your money In the
home channels of trade, because- all of
it came from the hard earnings of your
neighbors and friends. and yeet have
no right ito deprive the community oIf
lthe gowod it can dio if e(rculated therern
Just suppose. yo~t patron of the mail
order house, that for a period of twelve
ntonthi every citizen of your county
followed your leample and did all of
hit tradiing away from home' What
(condition wonultd you.r county he in'
Wo(uld the're h a solvIent merchant in
it Not one What of your schools.
your ehurches., and all the iv'ilitring
nsttllutions of our land'
Ikon't the an Itllgrate If you hanle a
dollar to spe'nd, spend it at home Thus
it stays and works iI the only spot on
U(od's earth In which you are interested
ttend it away and it Is Lgont fore'ver
5b hat is the difterlnce bhetwaee, i man
and Ihtter'' The older a mamn gets the,
welake'r he! gets, I t the older the
bhultter gets the stronger it is
Th Royal Pharmacy
This is to notify the public that l
have bought the Royal Pharmacy and
will continue the business at its present
location. I will appreciate the con
tinuance of your patronage for any
thing in the drug line.
J. E. ROBB,
Registered Pharmacist.
SPARROWS AS FOOD.
A goivernnment bulletin urging the
l;nlgl.h sparrow as food says
"There' i no re'son why themel birds
houildt niotl be' itilize'd for fm)d in this
iimtltitt s hey e ave cen In thile old
,,tirl i feie ctct t rier Their flesh It
ilalabl,'. ntdl though their tºloies are
.,urll th'ir ro(t)herC fully rompens.ate
fir lack of site
"Ti kill merctfutlly a sparrow that
i,. heo.in trappe'd. place' the thumb nail
at th h Ias'. Of it. skull satd dialorate'
it tuck h. hard ,lqictk pressure To
dli e's It rut off the leg,. the wings aj
the' ouatr el)uln and the' neck closeh to
Ih,' hi,1d\ . *1ril, eff the' skin. beginning
Al th,, tek,'ek i make a (iiit through the
ha1 I` alel eo titnling fromn tht neck
a liet It, hitckltsi.' uintl the ,ibp ari
e r1\1e'id. thnt aroutedl hltwee', they leg'e
to the' Walt
if the .Iprlroeiw are to tw brolled
aei' Ihe. bre,'ast. as this ellthed of
rtking see hrieI nand parches the
le-seor partt. no to re'nlde'r the'm worth
lesi. (h itmic ) ImI here i lees waste,' its
steAffitig andl roasting them whole.
"'iMrrw s nway thi ewokeed hby any of
tli t, ni ths;'. itslh, 'I ,,r re- ldhtirdt or
lquail WVhc'u ,,tne.l, brilPed, hllbuttered
-ulld se-rvted nill ltost they are' parlicu
lerly reieIl ~eid conmpare favorahly with
the a best kincl. of small ganim "
---------*-*--
METHODIST MINISTERS' NEW
APPOINTMENTS.
Th|e appnet ltlilenits made by the an
nal eonfet-r'elce'' ,of the. M C'hurch
t4ostth relacto tgt I i.s, the' Itaton IRouget'
Itistriclt. aie It W tii ntii, presald
lug chidelr, Arite', Alo ne Karly, I·ker.
. If leiton IBatolln (ogell,(' A hiattle'.
('I ition. .1 A ('obehrti. Ike.nhian tprings.
1' 1'aurwelut'r. esuppily, Frankllnton,
J A Me't c'rllick. I'ranklinto, Iellrrult,
tic b,' eespplied, (Ptiunae's, It II Ate
dire'w, (;reeia'slelrlg. It Ilhenri |HamI.
nmond and Ntalbatnh . I. I Me('ain.
Jackmon. 1 H. Ilolgan. Klte'r Memso
rial. II W ('udd, K c.ntaie John
iholart, t)liIt' Itranch. J 1. t'ady.
Pine' ';r ,tr . II 1 ' Watison. PI'encha
toulIs..I It Vitilita., 14sprittle'ild, to
et stipplie.ld hy I) (' Murphy. Wilhson,
j. I, :N;a.ss, Zena,. W It MCr'h'rson,
Zachary., J J Kelle;y ('haplUain Stale
I'enittle'iltry. II 1 John.. 'o fear+ncte
Klangelliat, II T Yotnlg
