The St. Joseph Observer
VOLUME X.
ST. JOSEPH, MISSOURI, SATURDAY, DECEMBER 2, 1916
NUMBER 9
St
J
III -tv
V
! -
Iv--
Lx"
CROPS LEFT IN
FIELDS 10 ROT
New Jersey and Louisiana
Farmers Did Not Harvest
Because of Low Prices
the club members, thye are no real
A REASON FOR THE i contests Just friendly ones nnd the
J4IH COST OF LIVING con,ing election will be no exception
to the rule.
ft now looks as though Dr. J. C.
It I. Contended That There Is an Em- Whltsell or Walter II. Robinson will
bargo Existing at the Present Time be thc npxt President of the club, as
Instituted by Food Manipulators and K- A- Kln&' wh fl beln Pushed b'
Monopolists Aided and Abetted by his frlond8' has- ll ls f ld'
Public Service Corporations Which stated that he will not be a candidate.
If Proper Methods Are Employed At the meeting of the club on Tues
In Crushing Will Put an End to day nlP't ' following candidates for
Any Necessity for an Embargo on ofrlcer t0 be voted on next Tuesday
Food r Any Other Products werp nominated: II. M. Duncan was
named for secretary, James Oarvey for
.. , , . .
Questioned before a United States
Congressional investigating commit-
tee, not many months ago, a proml-
nent official of one of. the Standard
Oil companies made a doiu anu iran
declaration that, in his business, pro-
duction had nothing to do with prices.
Does production affect food prices?
Let us take an instance nnd a typical
one, close at hand. The high price
of potatoes has been a fruitful topic
for the last month or six weeks. I'ota-
toes have been likened, In the figura
tive language of the plain people of
the United States, to lumps of coal,
and lumps of coal have been likened
to precious stones. Apples also are
commanding high prices. In the Bos
ton market, on Wednesday, Nov. 22.
these quotations prevailed:
Potatoes Maine, $3.403.45 per 2-
bu bag; in bulk at Charlestown, $1.60
$1.G5 a bu; sweets, $2.503.25 bbl.
AnnlPs Mnolntr.sii Beds. S3(5)5 bbl:
Baldwins, fancy, $33.50, No. 1 $2.50 (
3; No. 2 $1.752.25; Greenings,
"
tnffli Rfi- TI-,rvmc oki-d-i . Huh.
T-.UU.UV, ... .w, v-, --.
bardstonB, $21.75; J.'oiOiem Spy,
to rnOl-l in- Plnnlnn J"?!?!)? Krtr Pound
Sweets.'w.503.B0; bushel boxes, 30c
$1.23; western box apples, $1.50
2.25.
Rotting in the Fetds
In The Chiistian Science Monitor of
the same " date appeared a dispatch
from New Orleans, La., quoting C. W.
Kempton. of Bogalusa, In that state,
as saying that potatoes and apples
aro spoiling in the fields of his section
because of the low prices offered by
commission men. This citizen of
Louisiana, it appears, recently made
an extensive Inquiry Into conditions on
the farms in several of the other the progress of the work. Prior to
states. He reports the situation in his departure ho stated that he ex
Pennsylvania, Ohio, and West Virginia pected the short session to be the bus
es such that a lemedy is needed in iest of many for years past or to come.
the shape of a law providing for tho .
amount of commission that may be 'ENOUGH OF HIM NOW
charged on tho sale of products. He
also favors a law for government in- The Peop,e Are Sat8fied That They
Bpectlon of products shipped by farm- - Need No More of Such
tvs U commission houses before ship- Idiocy
i.nt3 can be destroyed as unfit. While
j.pples aro bringing war prices at re-
ail, lie finds that many were left to
"spoil on farms In Oregon, Michigan.
West Virginia, and Pennsylvania be-
cause of low prices to be had from
possible buyers ln lots. His conten-
tion la that the present high price of
food products is the result of dealings
by commission men, and that the
farmers themselves are receiving poor
...
pnees tor tneir outputs.
embraces the Entire Country
The statements made by this wit-
cess, both as regards the situation In
curtain quarters of the country and as
regards the character of the products
affected, may be extended,
ded, without de-
parting from the facts,
s, to the whole
country, and to practically all of its
products. There is a plentiful supply
of everything, but distribution is re-
Btrlcted by monopolistic manipulation
Wl by Inefficient public carrier serv-
ice. Vegetables covering hundreds of
acres were left in the fields of New
Jersey this year because the farmers
and gardeners could not ship their
"truck" with profit. It ls the plan of
hose who control the receipt of
products, und who regulate the prices,
ut certain established distributing
points, to prevent supplies from reach-
Ins the markets In quantities that'
would lower the cost to consumers.
This 1b the condition of things ln
tho United States today, and In this
condition certain elements are striving
U Bad ground for the declaration, by
congress, of an embargo on food ex-
p-rts. A fictitious iBsue has been
raised thct Is Dartly in behalf of a
clss til commercial manipulators that'
(Continued on Page Eight)
WILL ELECT OFFICERS
The Monroe Club Will Hold Its An.
nual Election of Officers on
Next Tuesday
On Tuesday next the Monroe club,
the standard of St. Joseph Democracy,
will hold its annual election of officers
t and directors. The polls will be open
i at .the Monroe club rooms nnd nil
i members are expected to be present
I and vote. As Is nlwnys the case with
treasurer and Joseph Klce for ser-
geant-at-arms. Twelve directors will
be sek,ctpd fronV the foowng named:
, . .,. w. N. T ,nn. A. n. Zol.
E , tlllne. Josenh Reed.
L Q Gabberti chnries Coy. James E.
CoXf Emmet j, crouse. John Holtman,
0rover Hamm, W. H. Sherman, Joseph
IJrown james S. Burrls, William E.
Spratt, Porter Srlte, William Reltter,
E. J. Byrne, Barney E. Reilly, E. C.
Barker, Dr. W. L. Whittlngton and
Curtis Kennedy,
INSPECTED THE WORK
Congressman Booher Looks Over the
Protective Measures Being Em
ployed at Lake Contrary
On Wednesday afternoon Congress
man Booher went to the scene of the
protective work now being done at
Lake Contrary and give It a critical
inspection in order, as he remarked,
'"at he might tell his fellow members
on the rivers and harbors committee
I m Hw4 IkikMdli Ml , 1 a tAilr Vin o
" ",Bl "-". ""
coming UiUllfc.
His inspection revea!ed the fact that
the work Is far better advanced than
"a expected the good weather which
has prevailed up to the present being
responsible for the rapid progress. "If
I can have two more weeks of good
weather before the river freezes over,"
Englneer-in-Charge Constant told him,
I will be satisfied that I can have
lho work so fnr advanced by the time
the SI)rng ,.j8,, comes that there will
be no danger that the river will get
paat our control."
Congressman Booher left Thursday
night for Washington and when he
arrives there will give his fellow the Missouri Senate and House, is all
members a comprehensive report on'oer and as usual the Democrats are
,.v,,0 nr nnno th ,BS. nnnhin
but we are very well satisfied that , resented in that body on the new roll , 0ar and cent8 waB nearly four
Wilson has boen re-elected. Just as call are: mlUlon 0ars anU Jn the four s
rifSSa& SVJe'SV nlae nmtoM- M,I,W
dPr.vood llirlff would do for US( war""6"1 aml, UeUer8' fanKe, i, j attributes this saving of lives and
broke out in Europo and created an unigglsts. jewelry merchants, insur- wealth t0 ,he gp,eading of information
unprecedented demand for American ance agents, clerks and contractors, mlnln lo tuberculosis by the
" SySionSfwe ' ,,,,, , ' ooIh a"d newspapers of the state
for thege demands. Had Hughes have rarmers out
been elected they would always have Ule nouse uns ume- un lne unoincial Iud Cr0S8 Christmas seals.
)Att..j ...tu n.i.in) iA u nutn.Tn . ponunn of th npw hmiRP thprp nrp I
"u"lra " " KV"C lu .l"c ."L" 7,c
ments or tno wuson auministraiion.
Thu e ,s no questlon but that the wnr'
In Europhas been the salvation of
qJJ8, different times ahead for
our ..watchful waiting" and note writ-!
ing president. While we need a more
ablo statesman at the head of affairs
X , , tht nnn hi. hnnil
rt),0U,j fa)j tj,e responsibilities of
straightening out the tangles which his
blunders have created. It Is our hon-
'i conviction mat wunin me nexi
5.u,r J"1 lno American peopie win
D-mocracy." Westboro Enterprise.
If that is the best that the editor of
the Enterprise can do the first prize
for political and partisan idiocy is
awarded to him unanimously,
FOR WHICH WE APOLOGIZE
Our good friend "Woody" Postal of
the Mound City Journal, Iuib a grlev-
ance and It Is a Just one. In the
week, before last Issue of his excellent
Journal ho wrote a highly laudatory
front pago story of Congressman
Charles F? Booher. It was such aj
6ood story and so well written that It
w'is reproduced In full In this paper,
hut In the hurly-burly and bwIbIi and
swash of politics we credited It to
Craig Leader, much to the chagrin
t of our friend woody and doubly bo to
'us.
WAS .THE COOLEST AND MOST
COLLECTED OF ENTIRE CROWD
Oscar McDaniel Faced a Grilling Cross
Examination and Did Not
Turn a Hair
Made the Best Witness That Has Been
Called Either for Against Him
in the Case.
With never the "turning of a hair"'
or the quiver of an eyelash Oscar D.
McDaniel, charged by- the state with
the brutal murder of his wife, faced
Attorney General Barker, who ls as
sisting in the prosecution of the state,
and answered every question put to
him In a long and gruelling cross ex
amination in a manner that sporting
parlance wonld designate "right off
the bat." He was ready with his an
swer the moment that the question
was framed, and in instances actually
assisted his prosecutor to get his
question in the shape that he de
sired. In fact he was one of the best
and most ready witnesses who have
appeared In this long drawn out and
sensational case.
Square In the Eye
Those doubting Thomases who ar
gue that a guilty man cannot look a
person in the eye certainly can now
adhere more firmly to their idea, and
they now as-sert with equal positive
nets that McDaniel Is not guilty of
the foul crime charged to him, for if
ever a man looked his accuser square
ly and firmly In the face and eye, he
did. There was never a moment that
he did not look Barker straight in the
eye, and the more ferocious the ques
tion and the more cruel the inference
IS SAFELY DEMOCRATIC
-...-, . . .L .-,
Revised Figures Show That the Demo -
crats Have Both thc Missouri
Senate and House
The noise made by the Republicans
to the effect that they would control
in control. Secretary of State Roach at st. Louis last week, made the
has compiled the result which shows statement that the schools and the
that in the house there will be 77 editors of Missouri were showing the
Democrats and 65 Republicans, while V,-Grj the way to eradicate tubercu
in the senate there will be 28 Demo- IoMS Tney are making Missouri the
crats and eight Republicans. i "show you" state, he said.
Official returns will not make any, ln m5 there were 465 fewer aeaths
change ln the senate figures and can- frcm tuberculosis in the state than in
not make material change from the :,jU Thls ,g a dlnlmution in the
figures given for the house. : death me from tuUerculosis in Mis-
Lawyers, as usual, will predominate' soud of nvo iind a half nor cent a
Jn lnc ul,Per "oube- "ccupauons rep-
in tnc upper nouse. uccupanons rep-
. " ". . " "
snown to do 37 tarmers, a lawyers, u, ine growiu oi nucrci m me ugui
physlclan8 o bankers. 7 real esUte'in the state, he said, Is tremendous,
dealel8 and agentSi 8cn00l teachers.! In the per capita population sale of
" merchants. 3 In&urance agents. 3, seals In 1914 Missouri ranked twen-
traveling salesmen, 3 editors, 1, tleth in the roll of the states, In 1915
preacher, 1 undertaker, 1 college pres -
,dent j mnier and x baker Some
members of the new house have notlnectlcut and New York State, the
yet been classified as to occupation.
There are a few more farmers than'hnnnr
usuot In the senate and about the
avej ,0 a:,er ln the house.
I RAlMvlORAN KILLED
AT OMAHA. NEB.
The body of Ray Moran of this city
reached here from Omaha Monday and
was burled at Ashland that afternoon.
Moran, who until a short time ago, re-
sided heio was working In the railroad
yards Saturday, when he was caught
between two engines Rnd crushed to
death. He Is survived by a wife and
three children, and his father and
mother.
,
They All Feel That Way Now
A month ago, Miss Helen, eldest
daughter of oneChaileB EvanB
Hughes, Bald that "PolltlcB Just simply
bored her to death." We Imagine the
whole Hughes family shares her opin
ion just now. Milan Standard.
of the question, the more firmly was
McDanlel's gaze riveted on the face of
Darker and his eye held that of the
public prosecutor. There was not a
nersnn in thp crp.it crowd that
thronged the court room who did not'0f Course Hls Problematic Birthday,
remark on the extreme composure of
McDaniel and the fearless manner in
which he looked him squarely in the
eye.
Will Conclude Saturday
Adjournment was taken after the '
conclusion of the testimony of Mc-
Daniel until 0:30 yesterday morning '
when the case was resumed with the
state presenting rebuttal evidence.1 now jaice was raiseu in tne uranam
When he concluded the cross-examina-' neighborhood that to be more ex
n nt tr.rv.i..i T...ir. cti.nn tnr. u nliclt is near Graham. Nodaway coun-
defense" announced that the defense'
rested its cae !
on Th,.,i,v ,h tiri in u-w
On Thursday the tired jury was
taken out for a long walk and then
given a big Thanksgiving dinner at a
prominent restaurant. At night they
were taken to the Tootle theater,
where they enjoyed a Broadway pro-
iliwHnn wliirh Kfompfl tn nluntia thpm
The Jury occupied two of the boxes
and was under the charge of Sheriff
Jones and two deputy sheriffs.
It is expected that the case will have
so far progressed that arguments will
bt gin today.
ARE WORKING TOGETHER
. . . ... . .
IThe Schools and Newspapers Labor-
ing to Make Missouri the
"Show You" State
MI1W 8WrPhrv of tho
,i, ' for III T.n.f
i Dr. W. McN
Missouri Association for the Relief.
and Control of Tuberculosis at the
state Teachers' Association meeting
The s.vl to the state ... 1915
.. . , .u u.
'she took the rank of ten, ln 1916, he
Ba,d Bhe wJ glve Rhode Isiand( Con.
headers In 1915, a hard run for first
The Red Cross seals and printed
matter have been sent to Superintend
ent Vernon G. Mays of the St. Joseph
schools, and County Superintendent
George' K. Gilpin has been advised
that Dleiv of seals and nrlnted mat-
l. , , .v i i
ter can be had for the rural schools
ln Buchanan county.
RED CROSS SEAL, 191C
The seal for this year comes
in
green and red and is very ornamental dW tht"lr best Put down all In sight
and full of Christmas cheer. Thewero ntlced 8Uch as Mrs. Harriet
printed matter to be supplied to school ' Spencer, Mr. and Mrs. John S. Spen-
children and for their distribution, is '. Jr. and Mrs. Will H Beattie. Mr.;
mote attractive than ever. Seals will nnd ?' J- Spencer. Mr. and Mrs.
be sold by mall as well as by school
children, but the schools will be given1"" u u,c" pb'J " -ujum-in.
,.,ii al - i. ,.i umong whom may be mentioned Dr.,
Lvin- ,u v.v ,n.i ni ,i .i,.1 and Mrs. Floyd II. Spencer, Mr. and
buying seals by mall will notify the .. ,' ,
. ...... Mrs. Gus Prinz, Frank Freytag, Jr.,
teachers or superintendent by a cou- , ". -- r "
'and some others whom in the exub-
pon, to be sent by a school child or eranee Bnd exhilerntlon of the occa-
by mall. j s(on the writer la unable to remember.
A GOAT-LAMM STORY
The Montgomery Standard Man
Springs the Premier Campaign
Story of the Season
James L. McQule Is the editor of tho
Standard of Montgomery City he Is
likewise the man who perpetrated the
best state campaign story of the sea'
son. You may have heard it, but It
still is good enough to read it again,
so here goes as McQulre tells It:
At the Mineola precinct in Mont
gomery county a very black negro,
Vvho could not read, appeared. He
could not make out his ticket and one
I of the election Judges proceeded to
help him.
"Who do you want to vote for for
governor?" the judge asked.
"I wants to vote for Mr. Bam," was
the reply.
"There is no such name on any of
i the tickets," he was told. "You must
mean Judge Lamm, the Republican
candidate."
"Dat's the man, dat's the man," ex
( claimed the negro. "I knowed It was
some kind of a sheep."
JAKE CELEBRATED HIS
But It Was Sure a Swell
Affair
Jake W. Spencer, who has sold more
Goss printing presses in the past ten
y than any salesman in the West-
p hemisphere, had a birthday Mon-
day and he celebrated it and with
becoming effect and satisfaction.
ty. Missouri, which to be still more!
explicit Is located about forty-five '
no,'th of St- Joseph-and he i8
,.,.,.' . ,. ...
iiuL ctrtiiiWUt'U in it euuei iui lie iumu
not be for that little burg has pro -
duced more statesmen, salesmen. edl -
tors, musicians, and other great per
sonalities to the square yard than any
other section of the growing West.
Mr; Sence U1 hlnleU free t0 th8-
anu so win ma n-, wuu an aiou
reared and tutored and given all the
frills in Graham and so will Will
Beattie. secretary and treasurer of the
John S. Brittain Dry Goods company,
who while not a Graham product is a
near issue of that famous spot, for It
I only twelve miles to Quitman,
where he breathed early air and fur
thr ii wnniii not dan to raise much
lner no would noi uare 10 raise mucni
disturbance over the fact that he was
not a Graham born, for his comely the last t of the present adminis
heinmate (all Graham cirls are or tration in Missouri. Much as the col-
w,ire pretty) would soon elaborate and
elucidate to him the proper point at
which to step off and so will John j the present administration was dis
Spencer, who knows that early Gra-' tasteful to him and that he balked at
ham air made him what he is and the Major indorsement given at the
realizes now that had he remained state convention which had a great
there he would still have a luxuriant to do with his election.
crop of alfalfa on the crp.st of his
dome instead of being now obliged to
wear a night shirt on top of his head
and so possibly, but not with malice
aforethought might some of the many
others who sat about Jake's bountiful
ly laden festal board on that Monday
night when he gave the former of Gra-
ham colony the feed of their lives, and ",c ",c" ," "" """"" ""
with the price of turkey it is yet a for themselves or their friends. Then
problem with his guests how he did it he let' g0
- but as all former Grahamltes do he "1 am Eing into office without a
d:d it well. single pledge to any human being, on
Or course it was a noel idea that any subJecl whatsoever." he declared.
Jake evolved-that is to teed the Gra- "What's more- l am ElnE -to office
ham colony on his blrthday-but to his witn appointment secondary to the
credit and possibly the grocers'- it egl-lat!e program now being map
may be said that he did it and done Ped out- 1 sha not let the political
it well-but the cost was staggering. , ambitions of a few take precedence
. ., ,., , .. .u
nu huu ruuniu; uui usui mav us
three cents per pound which turkey
cost when he lived at Graham had
risen but he found It out when the
bill came In jesterday but up to date
he hns made no noise to that effect,
and so the Graham colony which feast-
el at his expense Is satisfied.
And It certainly was "some feed" to'
which that Graham colony paid rapt foaign his oft repeated statement that
and rapid and ravenous attention, nnd he had no political ambitions beyond
one that will long live in their memor- the governorship. Thursday he re
let, especially those who encountered peated again his stand in this matter,
acute feats of over-eating Indigestion "When my term at Jefferson City ex-
he next six hours-but as to that fea-
tUre U,e? Can H8Crlbe l t0 'haVthe
c sire tor it was truly a sumptuous
..,,.. .... ., .. ,,
..in... i.uv i..irj y,,.. ...,r. iu,bn co-
pecially those who tried to eat all that
was In sight for that wus Impossible,
But among that Graham colony who
Frank Freytag, and a whole feed lot
full of their progeny and adjuncts i
TO
BE
He Proposes to Take Hold of
the Reins and Do His
Own Driving
GOES INTO OFFICE
WITHOUT A PLEDGE
He Has Served Notice on the "Pie
Counter" and the Job Hunting Con
tingent That He Proposes to Make
His Own Appointments and That
They May as Well Leave Him Alone
to Hand Out the Places and Pass
the Pie as He Sees Fit and Proper
The political pie and place hunters
who expect to profit and benefit
through the election of Col. Fred D.
Gardner of St. Louis as the next gov
ernor of Missouri, may as well with
draw their plates fiom before the pie
counter and their demands from the
box office, for Col. Gardner has said
it emphatically that he proposes to do
his own appointing and In his own
way, and in his own time so there
now you man or woman who is pie
hungry. He says that he does not
care to or will not be bothered now,
for he remarks that legislative work
,s far more essential than pie cutting
and he propoSes to do that first the
legislative work he means.
I Louis V. Stigali, the president of the
Monroe Club, has Just returned from
the state caPital and also from St-
Louis and he says so-and he knows-
for the erudite vounc Dresldent of the
i - .
!Monroe Club can see a thing eas!1'
;with an eve ha,t Pen and hear a
thing with cotton stuffed In his ears.
Looks LiKe Clear Sweep
Of course Col. Gardner did not is
sue this ultimatum quite as directly
as It Is expressed here. Nor Is this
stand of his to be construed as evi
dence there is not to be a clean sweep
in the offices at Jefferson City and on
the administration boards. nollce
( boards an electlon boards throUghout
the state
Quite the contrary.
Among the
men who are watching Mr. Gardner
fooii ha ,7.ni .i ,,.,
there is a feeling he will wipe away
nel dislikes to discuss this feature of
his late campaign, it is admitted that
Is Not Tied Up
The governor-elect spent last week
"" " "U"W"T "j" -"""
luiiicu iu ma oi. i-.uuia umius iit-
found them thronged with the "boys."
For ,a dil' or l?' the governor-elect
stood the jamming and jockeying of
fr j-fc ni in nt-t itj-tij'v nit liit liitnf In 4nlk:t
over the good for the many. Does
taot that make my position clear?
Evidently the boys caught the "col-
oners Idea. Immediately they slipped
out of nls offlce and not iany of them
have been back for a second visit.
Denies Political Ambitions
Mr. Gardner emphasized in the cam-
plres. I'll be through with politics," he
said to a reporter, thumping his fist
on nis de8 v Kive the Job to
b J
wqicjj i wa8 elected tne Dest I nave
ln me and then I'll come back to my
business."
..WhU ., ,he 8ena,orlai bee beclnR
t0 bu before the four year8 at Jef.
fergon clty are completed?" quizzed
the lntervjewer
QqM Gardner.s face flUHnedi ..,
'
"My pledge has been made and I Btand
'
GARDNER
01
BOSS
From which It would appear that
i . , !,, ,,i .., , ,
the pie hunters will have to keep
, i,ii -,i .,, on.
quiet for awhile, and that Senator'
Stone's future is not menaced by
Gardner.
-llMl-MW--
