THE BARRE DAILY TIME
HAIUIK. VERMONT, SATURDAY, DECKMHKK 2, 191G.
TRICK, OXK CKXT.
VOL. XX NO. 221.
SMALLER HOPE
FOR BUCHAREST
Rumanian Stand on Arge
chu River Is Not Like
ly to Succeed
GERMANS TRYING
OUTFLANKING PLAN
London Military Men Also
Place Little Reliance
on Fortifications
London, Dcr. 2. Hopes of Rumanian
ability to save their capital by making a
(stand on the line of the Argoehu river is
now dwindling rapidly. The German
jilan apparently is to envelop the Ruma
nians on both flanks and cut olT the first
and second Rumanian armies. According
to the news of the past two days this,
ylan is being swiftly carried out. By the
tapture of Oampulung the Germans
gained a new line of supply and commu
nication which greatly facilitates the
operations.
In the meantime Von Mackensen con
tinues to throw his forces across the Dan
ube river at different points and unless
ftrong Russian reinforcements arrive in
time, drawing the Germans back across
the river, it is believed the Rumanians
will find it too dangerous to try to save
Bucharest by making a stand on the Ar
gechu river. Little confidence is felt here
in the ability of the fortifications around
Bucharest to withstand the attack of the
German heavy ordnance.
Russians and Rumanians Attack Fiercely.
Berlin, by wireless, Dec. 2. Russian
and Rumanian forces arc continuing to
make fierce attacks along the Bukowina
and Moldavian frontiers. To-day's state
ment of army headquarters says the at
tacks were without success and that
heavy losses were inflicted by the Teu
tonic troops.
A great battle has developed in west
ern Rumania. The Austro-German army,
advancing from the region of Campulung,
defeated the Rumanians in a pitched bat
tle, breaking through their lines. More
than 8,000 Rumanians nave oeen -tured
in western Rumania, together with
m f-annon. Tn the advance toward Bu
charest the Teutonic forces have reached
the Argcchu river.
RUSSIANS SECURE
SOME ADVANTAGE
IN DOBRUDJA
Have Seized Western Part of Tcherna
voda Bridge Across Danube and
Gained Two Villages South
of Bucharest.
Fetrograd, via London, Dee. 2. The
Russians have gained possession of the
western part of the Tchernavoda bridge
across the Danube, it is officially an
nounced. South of Bucharest the Teu
tonic forces have been driven back, the
statement says, and two villages have
been taken.
GERMANS TAUNT BRITISH.
Because of Retirement of Jellicoe as
Commander of Fleet.
London, Dec. 2. The changes in the
British admiralty have been greeted with
jubilation by the German newspapers, ac
cording to an Amsterdam dispat h to
Renter's. The Cologne Lokal Anzciger
declares that Admiral Jellicoe'g removal
from the fleet is degradation for losing
the battle of Jutland and that the in
efficiency of the fleet is shown by the
fact that German ships attacked the east
coast of Kngland and never saw anything
of British ships.
AUSTRO-ITALIAN
FRONT WKES UP
Violent Artillery Fighting Is Reported
By the Austrian War Office Great
Battle Rages in Carpa
thians, v icnna, r .,, y ";.
T- I .. T I C .. i J ..
' "K" 'fr iditions in particular industries and ear-Austro-ltal.an
front s reported by the a UWei aml gtatistiral ,Iilta
war office.
A great battle in the wooded Carpa
thians, where the Russians nre endeavor
ing to break through into Transylvania
and Hungary, is raging without cessa
tion, the war office says.
SERBIANS REPULSE ATTACK.
Violent Assault Was Made South of Gru
nishe Last Night.
Paris. Dec. 2. A violent attack was
made last night on Serbian positions !
couth of Grunishe on the Macedonian
front, east of the Cerna river, and the
war office says the attack was repulsed.
BEQUEST TO DIVORCED WIFE.
Jack London Left Her $5 and Her House
in Oakland, CaL.
Santa Rose, Cal., Dec. 2. The will of
Jack Ixindon, the author, who died at
Glen Ellen, near here on Xov. 22, leaves
the bulk of his estate, on which he placed
no value, to his widow, Charniion K. Lon
don. The will was filed yesterday in the su
perior court here and bore the date May
21, 1311.
P,v its terms bis divorced wife. Mrs.
TW-ssie M. London, is given 5 and theiquiries in progress at Boston, Xew York
tinlisp ltl W Illen Clip resuies in I TOE IB no. 1 I vum v viih-mw v.,,, uuintiwi
l un il s e marries agi in, when it re" markets. His designation was said to
rert. U the estate I ondon's two lnl-ibe dm- largely to his work in investi-i
.-.i.. c a. . i i
dren by bis first marriage. .loan and Hess
and hi.' life insurance w.lier. the amount
of which was not madrPubIic,
m . . - i . - l- . I .
COMPETITION NOT
EXPECTED SOON
AFTER THE WAR
TJ. S. Federal Trade Commission Thinks
That It Will Take Europe Some Time
to Get Into Position for Competition
But Advises American Selling
Co-operation.
Washington. D. C. Dec. 2 In the most
comprehensive review of foreign trade
condition's ever prepared by any govern
mental agency, the federal trade com
mission to-day expressed opinion that
the much discussed aftor-tho-war com
mercial competition from Europe will
not be likely to come for some time aft
er the conclusion of peace. High cost of
raw material, increased taxes, probably
higher wages, to say nothing of the cap
ital and stocks of material necessary to
repair the wastages of war, the report
says, are expected to delay the full pow
er of European competition until it re
gains its normal state.
Laws to put the American exporter on
a footing with his foreign rival by au
thorization of collective foreign selling
agencies are recommended. A brief sum
mary of the report made public last
May, while it still was incomplete, rec
ommended such legislation and was fol
lowed by introduction of the Webb bill
which still awaits action and has the
endorsement of the administration.
In studying the export situation, the
trade commission, it is declared, has tried
to take the problem in its broad histori
cal aspect, considering the present war
as a temporary interlude, the permanent
influence of which it is difficult to esti
mate. "It is frequently asserted," says the
report, "the manufacturers and producers
of the belligerent countries will take ef
fective measures to regain their former
trade. It is likely, however, that some
time will pass after the close ot the war
before they will be able to exert their
normal competitive power. Much capi
tal, including large stocks of material,
will be needed to restore the wastages
of war. For some time, also, after peace
is declared their costs of manufacture
are likely to be higher in many lines of
industry than before the war, due to in
creased costs of raw material, increased
taxes and possibly higher wages.
"In their struggle to regain their for
mer trade such foreign manufacturers and
producers may be expected to fully util
ize their highly efficient organizations for
the promotion and handling of trade be
yond their borders, even foregoing profits
or taking a very low profit till their
costs again become normal and they
have re-established their trade. Hence,
competition from foreign industrial com
binations, aided by foreign ship lines
and foreign banks, and backed by for
eign governments, may be even (harper
than'before the war."
The commission does not consider co
operation as the most important factor
in foreign trade, but it considers it an
important and necessary element in any
foreign plan.
"Three important considerations," it
says, "are involved in this problem.
These are, first, the presence of con
certed action among the foreign com
petitors of American exporters; second,
the probable effect of similar action by
American manufacturers in foreign trade,
including its possible disadvantages to
domestic consumers and smaller competi
tors; and, third, the effect of the present
laws of this country upon such co-operation
on the part pf. American manufac
turers." It is apparent, the report sets forth,
that the country's organization for ex
port trade must be strengthened if its
manufacturers and producers are to com
pete on more nearly equal terms in tlie
world's commerce. Of possible dangers
to American consumers it saysi
"The commission believes that the ad
vantages to be gained by effective co
operation in foreign markets need not
entail any sacrifice of the firmly estab
lished policy of this country in regard to
the maintenance of fair competitive con
ditions and the prohibition of monopo
listic control within the United States.
At the same time co-operation for ex
port trade will enable the exporting man
ufacturer to realize an increased return
for his products along with decreased
costs through larger scale production,
and the country will enjoy greater in
dustrial stability resulting from a broad
er market.
The present laws, the report says, in
many cases as they stand operate to
prevent formation of co-operative organ
izations for export trade. Lnangcs must
be made, it says, to relieve the manu
facturer of even doubt as to their ap
plication in foreign trade organization,
but leaving them as at present to pro
tect the domestic consumer against com
binations to control prices.
The report takes up competitive con
ditions in most of the countries of the
world, devotes a chapter to competition
;n South America, gives competitive con
concerning trade conditions everywhere.
TO INVESTIGATE HIGH PRICES. .
George W. Anderson Will Act as a Spe
cial Agent.
Boston, Dec. 2. Investigations of the
high cost of living which are now being
made by federal officials or agents
throughout the country will be directed
by George W. Anderson, the United
States attorney for this district, it was
announced here yesterday,
Attorney
a state-
General Gregory, according to
meut issued by the United States at
torney's office here, has asked Mr. Ander
son to take charge of the investigations
"so that the work may be co-ordinated
and made as effective and rapid as possi
ble." The statement continues:
"To that end Mr. Anderson has re
ceived a formal appointment as special
assistant to the attorney-general, which,
by the way, involves no increase of sal
ary or other compensation,"
Washington, Dec. 2. District Attor-
I ney Anderson at Boston, it was an-
inounced last night at the department of
1 justice, has been placed in charge of
.the federal government's price investi-
igation in order to co-ordinate the in-
g.tmgonarge, o, ;irT io romro,
si .11- ,,nii m KucTjin ishioh a t .
traded much attention at the depart-
ment.
GREECE GIVES
UP ARTILLERY
And Entente Troops Are
Being Withdrawn from
Piraeus
KING CONSTANTINE
YIELDED TO DEMAND
During Crisis French Lega
tion Was Fired On; British
Legation Man Arrested
Athens, Dee. 1, via London, Dec. 2.
King Constantine of Greece has agreed to
give up the artillory demanded by Ad
miral DuFournet, and the allied troops
are withdrawing from Piraeus, the en
tente diplomats have informed the As
sociated Press correspondent. Admiral
DuFournet ordered the withdrawal of his
troops after the king agreed to surren
der six batteries of mounted artillery
to the allies.
The allied forces already are leaving
the Zappeion, only three hundred remain
ing on guard. The French legation, which
was guarded by -French marines, was
fired upon during the crisis. The Greek
military authorities assert the firing was
dne by rowdies. Secretary Bridge-man
of the British legation was arrested by a
Greek patrol and taken to the police sta
tion, where he was instantly released. ,
On the intervention of the Spanish and
Dutch ministers, the entire cabinet and
entente diplomats met to discuss the pos
sibility of an agreement. An armistice
was finally arranged and the firing
ceased. The number of casualties is not
known but many civilians were killed.
Athens Was Panic-Stricken.
'London, Dec. 2. A dispatch to the
Daily Mail from Athens, timed 11:45 a.
m. Friday, says:
"Firing has taken place between
French sailors and reservists on the
slopes of the Acropo.U, Passengers from j
V " , i
Thesee railroad station they witnessed ,
the fighting. This fighting, according to
other in format ioir, was between French
sailors and Greek troops.
"A panic has begun in Athens, crowds
are rusing through the streets and shops
are being closed.
Casualties in Athens Said to Be 200.
London, Dec. 2. The casualties in the
fighting in the Greek capital are said to
number 200, according to a dispatch from
Athens to the Central News agency.
RAN INTO OPEN SWITCH.
Express Train Wrecked and Two Train
men Were Scalded to Death.
Beacon Falls, Conn., Dec. 2 -Two train
men were killed, two passengers serious
ly hurt and several others received minor
injuries early last night when the north
bound Winsted express from Xew York,
over the Xew York, Xew Haven 4. Hart
ford railroad ran into an open switch
and ploughed through a standing freight
train on a siding near here.
The engineer and fireman of the ex
press were pinned at their posts and
probably w-ere scalded to death by es
caping steam from the boiler. The en
gine rammed its way through the caboose
and three of the freight cars, setting
them on fire.
Almost coincident with the crash the
wrecked freight cars sprang in flames.
E. 15. Erlee, who lives nearly opposite
the scene, telephoned for the fire depart
ment and ordered telephone operators to
summon physicians from nearby towns.
The. firemen extinguished the blaze in
short order. Many physicians responded
to the call, but there was little for thera
to do.
Medical Examiner F. P. Tuttle gave
orders to railroad workmen to remove
the wreckage in order to reach the en
gineer and fireman. The tender had been
partly hurled over the engine cab, and
both men, seated at thei stations, were
weighted down under the mass of twist
ed iron and steel. At a la A' hour the
work of clearing the tracks was progress
ing slowly.
When the trains met there was a pan
ic among the passengers and a rush for
the doors. Rev. Father Morrison of
Xaugatuck and County Commissioner
.lames Geddes of Waterbury were among
those on the train, who calmed fright
ened women and children and assisted
them from the cars.
Medical Examiner Tuttle, acting for
the coroner, late last night, ordered the
flagman of the freight train, W. J. Her-
schenroder of the Hronx, X. ., locked
up in the local police station.
According to the story Herschenroder
is said to have told the medical examiner
he placed torpedoes on the tracks but
neglected to close the switch. The freight
was on the siding for forty minutes be
fore the express was due.
Wright and Merkle. who nre at the
hospitals were ordered held for the coro
ner also.
PLAY TO GALLfcRIES.
Speaker Clark Also Says Congressional
Orators Pose.
Washington, D. C, Dee. 2. Speaker
Clark said yesterday that if Congress
wants to clean the legislative slate and
go home next March 4, he gladly would
join in a movement to eliminate useless
oratory by cutting down gallery space
and abolishing the Congressional Record
and to introduce voting machines.
"It isn't difficult to see that the galler
ies and The Record rause an awful waste
of time and money," the speaker declared
reterday as he faued in his efforts tojlight. ! i"g of routes, i he otlicers ot trie ciud testing air brakes was deeded to the citv i -Mf::ora. '-.-...'
outline a plan whereby a session's work j A red rocket will signalize that the (expressed themselves as bein? in f.vor ,s pift from the road when the river ri. a 11 year ., d fr.-sl.man at the Mexi
can be done in 63 legislative davs. ny 'president is about to touch the button re- ;of the retention of the present schedule bed was changed everl years ago. It !" high school, committed mm. ide
,n in: uuur in .,,;--.- -. .....
time that the galleries sre full the or.-
tors on the floor are posing and wasting
. - i i l. i
-,lme. m.iu ,c
The Record a great deal more than is
necessary.
av nnn ruir rw ini'r'inpn n no i h I ic I ir
POURED OIL ON FIRE.
Haverhill, Mass., Girl Is Dying of Burns
Then Received.
Haverhill, Mass., Dec. 2. Twelve-year-old
Margaret Hayes, known and loved in
the vicinity of her home at 07 Franklin
street as the "little mother," because of
her devotion to her widowed mother, two
smaller sisters and a brother, is dying in
the Gen. Gale hospital of burns received
early last evening wli-n she poured kero
sene on a fire in the kitchen range. Mrs.
Hayes, a factory hand, arrived home just
in time to see her daughter being carried
to the hospital in a police ambulance.
Margaret, after doing the family shop
ping, returned home abort 6:30. As
usual, she made the fire and started to
cook supper for her mother tlie other
children are spending the holidays with
relatives in .New Hampshire, tlie nre
was slow and the girl poured the oil on
it. Before she could step away the stove
covers were blown off and the flames ig
nited her clothes.
Hair and clothes aflame, she ran about
the apartment, which is on the second
floor, seeking rugs or other means to
smother the flames. Failing, she had the
presence of mind to run down to Mrs.
Mary Daley In the apartment beneath.
Mrs. Daley wrapped rugs about the child
and rolled her on the floor, another mem
ber of the family throwing buckets of
water upon the girl's body.
The ambulance was soon at the door.
At the hospital it was found that prac
tically every bit of Margaret's clothing
had been destroyed and she had been
horribly burned about the face especial
ly. Physicians could give no hope of
her recovery.
CUBAN ELECTION
STILL IN DOUBT
AFTER A MONTH
There is Some Talk of Starting a Revolu
tion to Force United States Gov- ,
ernment to Intervene.
Havana. Dec. 2. Although a month
has elapsed since Cuba's presidential elec
tion, the result still is in doubt and
many months may elapse before it is
definitely known whether President Men-
ocal was re-elected or defeated by Dr.
Alfredo Zavs, the Liberal candidate. Par
tial re-elections must be held in two
provinces where fraud or coercion inter
fered with the voting. The Conserva
tives claim their supporters were intimi
dated by Liberals in Santa Clara prov
ince, and Liberal sympathizers retort to
Itli.i, fharcfM wifh Areusfi Hons nf illefful
and telegraph by the
Conservatives.
s -vtremists talk of revolution and
destruction of the sugar cane crop in
order to force intervention by the Unit
ed States government. There is shift
ing of troops and munitions as a precau
tion to preserve order whatever the final
result.
CARRYING OFF THE LOOT.
Villa's Men Said to Be Pillaging in Chi
huahua City.
Juarez, Mexico, Dee. 2. Villa bandits
were reported to be loading two trains
with loot from the stores and residences
of Chihuahua City and preparing to fol
low these trains west on the Mexico
Northwestern railroad, according to a
message received at military headquar
ters last night from' General Or.una's
Hf-niits flt Sttuz.
General Ozuna's cavalry column was
at Cuilty, the first station south of the
state capital, the report said. The .
scouts obtained their information from
refugees reaching Cuilty and Sauz from
Chihuahua City. This news was taken
at headquarters to indicate Villa's inten- j
tion to evacuate the city after looting
it, as he did at 'Parral, Santa Rosalia
and Jiminer..
General Gonzales said General Trevino
was in Horcasitas Thursday awaiting
the arrival of General Francisco Mur
gula's forces from the direction of Cam
argo. south of Chihuahua City.
Villa made a speech against foreigners
in Hidalgo Plaza following his occupa
tion of the city, a Chinese farmer and
merchant who left Chihuahua City Wed
nesday morning, said cn his arrival here
yesterday. Villa warned all residents
against hiding any foreigners in their
homes and declared he intended to kill
them all, the Chinese said. Villa also
said he intended to confiscate all foreign
property and give it to the Mexicans.
The Chinese said he saw Villa troops
at the country home of General Luis
Terrazas, north of Chihuahua, and these
fired at the train which was leaving for
the north, but without casualties. He
also said three trains of troops escaped
to Sauz Tuesday and Wednesday, but
all went back with General Ozuua. He
did not see any American, French, Ger
man or British refugees at Sauz, but
saw number of Chinese a.id a few Syri
ans. ;
He confirmed the killing of many Chi- j
nese residents of Chihuahua Citv. He
said he saw at least 15 dead in the
streets near where he was hiding and
he believed many others were killed. He
said the firing of the cannon on Cerro
Santa Rosa set fire to many houses in
the city.
WILSONS GO TO NEW YORK.
In Order to Attend Ceremonies Incident
to New Lighting of Miss Liberty.
Washington, D. C, Dec. President
Wilson, accompanied by Mrs. Wilson,
left at 10 o'clock this morning for Xew
York tn i.Hrl innate in me inauguration
of the new lighting system of the Statue
of Liberty this evening. They expect to
leave Xew lork for the return trip at
midnight.
X'ew lork. Dee. 2. A mesnge from
President Poincare expressing the annre- I
ciation of the French republic to the
pic of the United States who contributed
n. fK f,m,1 whirli will nroviil tierina-i
nent illumination of the Statue of Lib-
ertr from torch to base, will be read to-
night by Ambassador Jusserand st a
dinner here in honor of President Wilson,
whose wireless signal from the yacht '
Mayflower will flood the statue "with :
-
leading the electric current and as the,
'statue is illuminated the warships' puns,
-:n . mrra in k nara.lss ImA l.r t lit
".,":.: V" , '"L .
and move through the streets which will
be ablate with lights.
T)r. li -u i . niu r it uin i 1 1 ri i
ASQUITH MAY
LOSE PLACE
There Are Rumors of Im
portant Changes in the
British Cabinet
BONAR LAW SAID
' TO BE IN LINE
But That Lloyd-George Will
Eventually Become
Premier
Ixindon, Jee. 2. Cabinet changes in
volving the resignation of Premier As-
quith are predicted by the Manchester
Guardian to-dav. which says rumors are
going around in Lotsbv of imminent
lu. ...... . .... ...'. k;
Bonar Law may replace Asqujih for the
time-being but that a final settlement
would be Lloyd George as prime minis
ter. The Guardian concludes that the
coalition government has not the collec
tive prestige to resist the attacks upon
it and that the House of Commons has
reached a mood in which it is ready to
create another ministry.
The London Express says a political
crisis has suddenly arisen and that the
coalition government is likely to go. Ac
cording to this newspaper, a new war
council, probably consisting of Premier
Asquith, Lloyd George, lionar uw, Ar
thur Balfour and Sir Edward Carson,
will be appointed.
MORE TRICHINOSIS.
Girl Taken 111 Following Death of E. A.
Baldwin.
Orleans, Dec. 2. Another case of tri
inosis is thought to have developed here
from eating tlie bear meat which has al
ready resulted in the death of one man
1 ' .!,...: ,.r tji. i. ..;.. i:il. l n
'and placed Mr. "and MrZ T iTi'th of'
this plaee in a serious condition
The
new case-which is thought to have de
veloped is Miss Mary Scalburg, a young
:rhool girl, who was working at the
Heath home at the time the meat con
taining the trichinosis worm was eaten.
The bear meat was sent to Mr. and
Mrs. Heath at Orleans from Mrs. Heath's
father, K. A. Baldwin, living near Stan
stead, P. Q., about ten days ago. Evi
dently the meat was not cooked suffi
ciently by either family to kill the para-sttf-,
for both those at ITTe Canadian home
and those in Orleans w ho partook of the
meat have been stricken with the dis-
ease.
Dr I-anphcr, who has the cases in
charge, and other consulting physicians
are awaiting developments in the new
case, which in its earlier symptoms leads
to the belief that it is trichinosis.
The condition of Mrs. Heath remains
about the same and is not thought to be
! serious, but tlie condition of Mr. Heath
! is steadily growing worse, according to
acivice given ouv im !"., "i
critically ill.
Dr. Farmer of St. Johnsbury was
called in consultation with local physi
during the week, and he also con-
firmed the diagnosis of the doctors here.
The disease, which is rare in any case,
is usually transmitted through the medi
um of pork, which is infected with the
tiny trichina worm. When not thor
oughly cooked, thereby killing the worm
whose larv is so deadly, the meat is
eaten, the worm attaches itself to the in
testinal walls. They then lay the eggs
from which are hatched the worms,
which are carried by the blood vessels
or lymphatics into the muscles, in which
stage the case is almost incurable.
In the case of K. A. Baldwin of Bald
wins Mills, who died Wednesday, and
who was a very prominent man in the
community where he lived, it was paid
that specialists were called from many
places in an endeavor to save his life,
but they were unable to check the dis
ease, lie was fi2 years old.
PROPOSED ROAD LAW CHANGES.
Secretary of State Bailey Confers with
Several Interests.
Essex Junction. Dec. 2. The officers
nnrl direi-tors of the Automobile Club of
Vermont upon invitation of Secretary of j
State Guy W. Bailey, met yesterday at:'
his office and spent the greater part of ,
the day in discussing automobile mat
' ..."
ters.
AmnniT flirwj. nresenf were Dr. 1C. L.
r-t..-. .,;.lnt an.l T.osfor TT fireene. '
,,, an,i treasurer F. Brodie i
of Burlington, George 11. Morrill ot M.
Johnsburv directors, State Highway
. . . . . . ...
Commissioner Stoddard Jl. Hates ot ucr- " "- . ".
by and Automobile Inspector W. S. order to include a ..O cent n.mimuni me
Teachout er '''""J-' RI"' a tentative article tthis
Mr. Bailey explained in detail the work effect will have been added when the
of his office and outlined the changes in i franchise tinkering is resumed Monday
the automobile law which he intended to;even,,,K
present to the legislature. Among the
more important matters were those re-
Mating to a suitable non-glare law, lights
on liorsc-tiraw n venicics, cnange in u.ne
of expiration of operators' and chanf- .
fears licenses so that all licenses will
noire Dec. 31 at the same time that the
registration certificates expire, heavier
penalties in ease of certain violations. .
more strict regulations respecting to
peo-'censing of operators and larger powers
:nd authority for the secretary of state
and state's attorneys. The matter was ;
left with Mr Bailey.
State Highway Commissioner Bates
'discussed in detail the various problems
in his department and especial matters
discussed were the laws relating to prop-,
er sign boards, guard rails and the work-
- -j.i
of foe VK te money is devoted
to the present purpose, that of h.ghway
ii in t infill Tir.
"x, 1 mn n,( .. .1,
were entertamed at lunch bv Scnetary
Bailey at the new L.tK-oln .nn.
- p
BOND FORFEITURE
IS NOT RELISHED BY
CENTRAL POWER CO.
Corporation Proposing to Enter Barre
Does Not Feci That It Should Be
Penalized for Failure to Live
Up to Agreement.
Representatives of the Central Power
Co., Inc., which is seeking the privilege
to establish a power line in Barre, ap
peared before the city council at a spe
cial meeting last night, examined the
draft of the proposed franchise and pro
nounced it almost letter perfect. Charles
H. Thompson, general manager and
agent, and B. A. Sumner, after applying
the critical lens to the instrument, ap
proved the one and seven-tenths price per
kilowatt, quoted a price of live cents per
kilowatt for energy used bv domestic
consumers for lighting and heating pur
poses and said that 25 years as the lite
of the franchise was perfectly agreeable
to them, llicy were not so far partial
toward the proposal that a $10,000 bond,
to he filed within 00 davs after the con
tract is accepted, shall be forfeited to the
citv if the line is not established before
July 1. 101S, albeit at the iirst confer
ence with them a fortnight ago they said
it was reasonable for evervone to expect
j that t he company will be doing
P'.V July 1, 1017. Speakmg for
; business
the com
pany, Mr. Thompson gave it as his opin
ion that it would be unfair to penalize
his concern $10,000 if market and deliv
ery conditions preclude tlie possibility of
getting the apparatus in operation as
late as the middle of 1018.
This feature may prove a stumbling
block in the way of reaching a swift ad
justment of the few outstanding differ
ences that exist and then again the rep
resentatives of the Central Power Co.
may have a counter proposition to make
when they find out that the council pro
poses to amend the tentative franchise
by providing for a fiOcent minimum
charge where meters are installed for do
mestic consumers. The object of the 50-
cent charge is to act as an estoppel on
any attempt to nnpoe a more burden
some minimum on the small consumer.
But for the most part, Messrs. Thomp
son and Sumner seemed to feel that the
alrlermenic legislative committee had
drafted a pretty satisfactory document.
Mr. Thompson went so far as to paint a
roseate picture of a householder getting
three meals a day for six persons at a
cost of less than four cents. Xaturally,
Mr. Thompson did not reckon therein the
cost of the edibles nor the householder's
time nobody figures mother's time in
the overhead nor did he intimate that
: wouu woucu w ueeu. rH uic
i .. - , .- -J I.I I C-. -1.
assumption was that the four-cent day's
meals would lie prepared by electricity
t a rate of three cents per kilowatt
Here's how: breakfast, one and one-
fourth cents; lunch, four-fifths of a cent;
dinner, two and one-quarter cents. The
five-cent charge per kilowatt, it followed,
wouldn't work an intolerable hardship
on the householder.
Aldermen Healy and Bruce were the
absentees and after they had given the
Tropoed franchise the up and down
Messrs. Thompson and Sumner left the
council to its own deliberations. Pre
viously, Mr. Thompson had asked and
received a confirmative reply to bis sur
mise that the franchise granted the pre
decessors of the company now furnishing
electrical power in Barre is perpetual and
that the council cannot curtail or amend
its powers. As for the one and seven
tenths price Mr. Thompson changed his
tine of inquiry the Central Power ( o.,
he said, couldn't be expected to guaran
tee a lower rate, inasmuch as future con
ditions must be regarded a wholly un
certain. In the event that the public
service commission should see fit to grant
the company the right to sell electricity
for lights in Barre, he continued, thesix
cent rate per kilowatt mentioned tlie
other night may be reduced to five- cents,
a rate which will prevail on power used
for heating, etc. On municipal lighting,
he thought that a three-cent rate could
be quoted.
"It looks like a good, progressive char
ter," said Mr. Thompson, as he 1h ill down
the draft which Alderman Glysson had
passed to him for his scrutiny. At this
juncture he suggested that the clause
which insists that the company must fur
nish a bond of $10,000 within 00 days
after the franchise is accepted bv the
council be amended to extend the time to
00 days. He said that the company, in
its negotiations elsewhere in the state, is
having a good deal of business to tran
sact in the way of filing bonds and
thought that the additional 30 days
would be useful. City Clerk Mackay ex
plained that the franchise will not be
come operative until the bond is fur
nished and intimated that the fiO-day
limit had been stipulated partly for the
reason that the company a fortnight ago
expressed its desire t. secure the fran
chise as soon as possible.
At lirst the representatives thought
there could be no objection to a forfeiture
"' oonu u me power noes hip m-
estaousne.i neiore ,niiv 1, ras, nut i.uer ,
if whs siaicti mill, me ruinHii mn-s mi
desire to be penalized for eventualities
over w hich it he a no control. Fixing a
n 4 - i . J 1 . . I . i.
limitation of six months after July 1
If", a suggested by Alderman Shurtleff,
,"' ""l "
pany's representatives had departed,
:l.nrA u-aa 4all- ..f a titnnit t tr ihn HrBl'l in ,
One Other Matter Considered.
Before adjournment, Alderman Glysson
!,)rm(;1lt t, ,ttrr of allowing the j
t! s- l,ni,.a n mid tn ' the
( ., () ,,nrtiin of :ln,i owned bv the I
H ni,nr i;nt(,rprise allev. He thought
.w . .i.-,i .rA nnr' inn,,,,, BfcM
l0 S(,t fort)l in agreement tentatively
. n,P,.ti,, w, wk wwiA-!
,11 I Alllllllll ril, ,111,1
li-it,p railroad is given Permission to la'v '
raiN ,.,,, teamster' turn-out neaV
thp i,.v. Alderman Gysn cited an in- j
,,. , ili ra ,l, ,,! nffieinla hv m,r. )
lantced a private land -holder 10 per rear J
for privilege similar to the one now!
iSOjjht from the city. The chairman of!
ti, Mreet committee was reminded that
th, identical strip of land now sought by !
the railroad as a part of it tra k.ige for j
. ,,
wa ree.lle. that the radro,. people
,.all four sevenths of the cost of the river '
1h1 t-rnioct. H
a,Wm. r:K-. a,,.a ..,.,,;,. i
' - n - nn nn-
(Cent ir.unl on fourth rc)
FOOTBALL TOOK
15 PLAYERS
The I91G Record Was One
Less Than in the Pre
ceding Year
TWO VICTIMS HA"
BROKEN o jSCKS
All Except ' Were on
High Scho Semi-Pro-f
esslv.-" .1 Teams
Chicago, Dee. 2. Football claimed 1"
lives during the 1016 season, which closed
Thanksgiving day, according to the fig
ures compiled bv the Associated Press.
There were 10 deaths last year and l.'i in
ISM 4. 'hily one of the victims of this
year was a college player. In most cases
they were members ot high school or
semi-professional teams. Two had brok
en necks and the others died of internal
injuries.
HEARING IS POSTPONED
Because Counsel of Charles Shamon Could
Not Be Present.
Island Pond. Dec. 2. Charles Shamon,
who was arrested here Xov. IS as the
one who fired the shot t hut killed Archie
Riggie in a brawl here on the night of
X'ov. 8, was allowed a postponement of
the hearing of tqe case owing to the en
forced absence of his counsel.
The preliminary hearing which was to
have been held Tuesday before Judge
Lund of Canaan, was set forward to
Thursday, Dec. 7. Shamon was admitted
to bail earlier ill the week to the amount
of $1,500.
This released him from the custody of
an officer in whose charge he was placed,
as he has not been confined within the
county jail.
The case is looked upon as more or less
of an accidental nature, as the dead boy
was not involved in tlie trouble and hap
pened into the bouse at the same time
the revolver was tired.
Shamon still insists, according to re
ports, that he had no intention of shoot
ing and only drew the gun for effect and
that the pulling of the trigger was acci
dental. SLATE INTERESTS SOLD.
D. C. Sherman of Poultney Merges Prop
erty with Another Concern.
Poultney, Dec. 2. I). C. Sherman. wh
has held most of the stock of the D. C
Sherman Slate Co., has sold his holdings
and his lands adjoining the company's
qcarries to Messrs. H. H. Fay, H. If.
Fay, jr., and C. W. Fay of Boston. The
purchasers are also the principal owners
of the Munson Lustre Male Co., the larg
est producer of rooting slate in the main
slate regitm.
The name of the concern has been
changed to General Slate Co. The cap
ital stock has been doubled adding $.V),-
000 in cash to the treasury for the pur-
pose of taking over the Sherman prop
erty and the possibility of acquiring oth
er slate properties here.
The new concern will also deal in all
varieties of unfading roofing slate, in
cluding those not produced by itself.
Mr. Sherman, will spend the winter
months with Mrs. Sherman in Colorado,
and will return in the spring to take
up again the supervising of the new con
cern's Vermont plants and quarries.
FORMER BARRE WOMAN, v
Mrs. Abbie C. Drew Died at Home of Her
Daughter in Waitsfield.
Mrs. Abbie C. Drew, wife of the bite
Ezekiel Drew, and for manv years a resi
dent of Barre, died at the home of her
(laughter, Mrs. D. R. Bishee, in Waits
field, Friday evening, after an illness of
few davs. Mrs. Drew is survived hy
her daughter and her son. Wjlmarth A.
Drew, treasurer of the Barre Savings
Bank & Trust Co. She also leaves three
brothers. John Duikee. George W. Dwrkce
and Charles Duikee of Tunbridge. The
deceased was born Abbie C. Durkee Aug.
27, 1S-10, and was therefore Tti years ohl.
Her murri.ige to Mr. Drew took place in
Tunbridge some over ."0 years ago. His
death occurred in Waitsfield in June,
1014. From until 1S02 Mrs. Drew
served as matron nt Goddard seminary,
while nor nusnanu was ine scnooi sit-w-
ar,.
For nearly 20 years the family re
sided in this city.
Funeral sen ices will be held at the
home of George W. Durkee in Tunbridge
Monday afternoon at 1 o'clock. It is ex-
ported that Rev. J. B. Reardon, pastor of
me mik i inn ' ' " "-
officiating clergyman and interment will
l. ..1.. : 4l.n t.t .;!. t.,4 in iha Tlltl.
be made in the family lot in the 1 im-
bridge cemetery.
NEW BARNET CORPORATION.
Stuart Auto Sales Co. Has Capital Stock
of $50,000.
Articles of association were tiled to-
" "im '- "....... - .
smart Auto sale-. o n .. m '"!. i.
' 1 "' !""' ' '"I",'"' rV , V
HHMl. with ."in share of stock, and plans
' d' ' aut..m..i..les ana oiiu-r mot. r
vehicles ami suppli. s and to manufacture
... ...
machinery, j h- 1"',,,r,,"r . '.Tnr, ' ";
Stuart ot M. lmloe I alls v . is. i:i. an u
Mclndoe tails, and I.. 11. . man. ot . t.
Johnsbury.
SCHOOL BOY A SUICIDE.
Body Found Hanging in the Cellar of
ljs Home.
a h.mie. NhIv was found by his
mother when sl. went to look at tin
- .r. - . - . M dual rxa.-nin.-r M.OnVr,
t-s that the suicide
ti! C rang. ment.
wis due to men-
