?
1 i( wIaTHEA n| GSgi. ^ nO 'From Pre, to HomT
til rtt> rfrfl Mlttlfrtf SKT^r M w ;",*"w"
1:^113221 JCXlvtWiMJ 2$Aai* '.rL ?
V ^ \ I / 1#l?, Dally Average. 78,SS7i Sandfly. SHJKl
No. 29,534. WASHINGTON, D. C., SATURDAY, DECEMBER 16, 1916?SIXTEEN PAGES. * ONE GENT.
D. C. PROHIBITION
BILUS UP AGAIN
Senator Sheppard. in Charge
of Measure, to Press for
>N Early Vote.
SMOOT URGES SUBSTITUTE
The District prohibition bill was j
taken up again in the Senate today <
soon after that body met. It was the '
Intention of Senator Sheppard of Texas. 1
In charge of the measure, to keep it 1
before the Senate all during today's i
session, and if possible to reach a vote, 1
though the likelihood of a vote before i
next week seemed slim.
The Senate had before it the Shep- '<
pard bill as amended, the Smoot sub- 1
stitute bill, which provides absolute *
prohibition, as opposed to the Sheppard . ^
bill, which permits personal use of j J
alcoholic beverages, and the Under- j *
wood referendum amendment. 1
Vote Agreement Blocked. :
Senator Sheppard sought to obtain ^
unanimous consent of the Senate to fix j t
Monday as the day upon which a final i a
9 vote on the bill should be taken, but Sena- j j
tor Martine of New Jersey objected. ; j
Senator Smoot of Utah then moved to ! \
strike out all after the enacting clause j
of the Sheppard bill and to substitute his i
bill, which would provide for absolute pro- 1
hibition in the District and prohibit the
importation of alcoholic beverages for per- }
sonal use.
c
Copy of Idaho Law. a
Senator Smoot explained that his 1;
substitute measure was in effect the 1'
Idaho prohibition law made applicable \ n
to the District of Columbia.
?PH- : ? ? i
a ma la a. reai pronioiuon measure," n
paid Senator Smoot. "I do not think
i t,
the bill now before the Senate is a real *
prohibition bill. I will say. however. 1 f
that I will support it. even if my sub- J
stitute is defeated. Under the Shep- f
pard bill the 100,000 negroes in the
District can send out of the District 1
and pet as much liquor as they desire?
a gallon or five gallons, if they wish? **
and drink as much as they want." '
Senator Gallinger of New Hampshire ?
interrupted to say that under the proposed
law white men can do the same. ^
Senator Sutherland's Comment.
Senator Sutherland pointed out that !
the Smoot substitute bill made it a ! n
crime for a man to have liquor in his | s
residence in the District, and that if he : fo
was convicted a second time of this of- \ s:
fense he would be held guilty of a ; j
felony and subjected to a penalty of
from one to three years in prison. He c<
asked how the law had worked in Idaho
in this connection. P
fc Senator Borah pointed out that the
t law had been very successful, and that ..
this provision of it had been designed tj
! to reach bootleggers. Senator Sutherland
supeestert that sometimes Is**?
were made so stringent that they defeated
their own object. E
Senator Lodge inquired what would
happen if a man were found to have
liquor in his house, and Senator Smoot
replied that he would be held guilty
under the law.
"Suppose a servant should bring
liquor into the house of his employer I
and it should be found there; would
the householder be guilty under the
law?" asked Senator Brandegee of Connecticut.
Favors Smoot Substitute.
Senator Works of California announced
himself in favor of the Smoot
substitute bill, although, he said, he
saw no reason for excepting the importations
of alcohol for medicinal or
sacramental purposes.
"Alcohol has no medicinal qualities
and is being given up by many physicians,"
said Senator Works. "Some ministers
have discontinued the use of
win1 for sacramental purposes.
"There is no more spiritual virtue in
wine than there is medicinal, and the
time will come, I believe, when all ministers
will do without wine for sacramental
purposes. Prohibition is not a
matter to be temporized with. It is
coming in the District of Columbia."
Senator Borah of Idaho suggested
that Senator Smoot's more drastic substitute
bill would have more difficulty.
' in passing the Senate, and also, should
a referendum be adopted, in receiving
action at the hands of the people.
lie said that it would be unfortunate
if. through attempting to be too drastic,
Congrj-ss should miss getting a law
which would eliminate the saloons.
\ Inquiry by Senator Kenyon.
Senator Kenyon of Iowa asked.
"If a man brings liquor into the District
in his grip after it has been prescribed
for him by a physician, and it
;s found in his possession, would he be
guilty of a violation of the law under
the substitute bill?"
"Yes." replied Senator Smoot.
"Well, I am a pretty strong prohibi- !
Tionist," said Senator Kenyon. "but l!
do not think I would go as far as that. 1
A u T iifl i? ?Vii. <li ft*,?**' I
?? w 1 ' * ^v niii - i cm ' i y
tweeri the Sheppard bill and the substitute
offered by Senator Smoot is that
the Sheppard bill is aimed at the aboli- .
tion of the saloons arid the Smoot bill [
provides for absolute prohibition. 1 f
would like to see the latter adopted,
but I fear it would jeopardize the legis- 1 t
lation." j
Senator Sheppard said he would welcome
the dec ision of the Senate as b?- ween
the two measures. "I believe in
prohibition as earnestly as any senator. *
My conviction is. however, that The best *
law which can be obtained at the pres- <
. r ent time is that provided in my bill. It 4
is similar to laws in most of the pro- ^
hibition states I fear that the Smoot I
bill is too drastic and would imperil '
legislation." # j
w Contest Over Referendum. : i
Senator Kern of Indiana, author of ! I
the proposed amendment to the l.'nder- 1
wood referendum amendment which j
would give the women of the District \
a vote on the question of the prohibi- i
tion bill as well as the men. today offered
another amendment designed to | '
make more stringent the election ma- . I
chinery for the proposed referendum. I
Senator Kern has announced that white 1
T.z was in favor of the prohibition bill, j i
he would also support the referendum I
amendment.
It was denied today by Senator Shep- I i
pard that he and other supporters of *
the measure would vote against the | i
bill if the referendum amendment were | <
attached to the measure He expects. ..
however, to be able to defeat the ref- j
erendurn amendment. The vote will he ; ;
close, according to information ob- i "
tained today. i
The "dry" senators, while opposed to i .
a referendum, would have difficulty ex- ! .
plaining to the country their vote ;
against a prohibition bill for the Dis- #
y iriet which would put the question up
f to the people of the District for final 1
| settlement. Also, they feel that even y
should the Senate place a referendum j
amendment in the bill It might be
stricken out in the House and the bill 1
ultimately become a law without the 1
J referendum. i
k
BEGINNING OF FUND
FOR INAUGURATION
Eight Contributions of $1,000
Each Toward Covering Expense
of Ceremonies.
COMMITTEES TO BE NAMED
Kight contributions of one thousand
Jollars each to the guarantee fund for
the inaugural expenses were announced
by Chairman Arthur Peter of the
finance committee today. These contributions.
Mr. Peter pointed out, were
made voluntarily, as the finance committee
has not yet been organized.
The contributors announced today
ire: Robert N. Harper, v. illiam B.
hlibbs & Co.. John Joy Edson. Charles
F. Bell, Edward J. Stellwagen. the New
iVillard Hotel, tlie Raleigh Hotel and
r. Maury Dove, in behalf of the Sliorelam
Hotel and the J. Maury Dove
'ompany. Tentative promises of $1,000
aeh also have been made, according to
?Ir. Peter.
"The contributions are coming in
plendidly." he said. "They tell us that
hey recognize this as a great national
Lffair led by the civic spirit of the Xaional
Capital, and as District of Cournbia
men. irrespective of party, they
ntend to make it a spectacular affair,
vorxliy of the national city."
Makes No Prediction.
Mr. Peter would not say what amount
te expects his committee to collect, exept
that he hopes to have it done on
. larger scale than previously. At the
ast inaugural about 5100,000 was colpcted.
After a conference with Chairman
Harper, the personnel of the
nance committee was tentatively
greed upon and this committee will be
amed officially Monday. It will conain
probably the names of 150 financial
eaders of Washington.
Chairman Harper expects to be able
o name the full inaugural committee
f 150 to 175 leading citizens, so that
he names may appear in the Sunday
morning Star.
The first of next week all the sub- i
ommittees will l>e named among
.'hieh the work of arranging for the
naugural ceremonies will be divided,
'hese committees will each have a
hairman and vice chairmen and will
Oiuprise from 25 to 150 men.
List of the Committees.
Mr. Harper said today that these committees
will be: Publicity, civic section,
rand marshal, reception, fireworks, j
.ni'j mcuaiB, ic^iniauun. "isiwiu .
ites, illumination, street decorations, j
.afayette and President's stands and j
ourt of honor, reviewing s La rids and j
rivileges, public comfort, transportation,
am fort at Union station, medical, print- ;
lg and souvenirs, Lafayette stand tickts,
public order, local transportation, pub- i
c comfort stations, hotel accommoda- j
ons, auditing, information booths and !
lilitary organizations.
:IRST WOMANIN HISTORY
ON INAUGURAL COMMITTEE
Irs. James H. Boggs Named by
Chairman Harper and May
Head Subcommittee.
wr <
31KS. JAMES II.
(liurk plioto ?
For the first time in historj' a woman
ihs been named ajs a member of the inLUgural
committee. Robert X. Harper,
he .inaugural chairman, announced tolay
that he has appointed Mrs. James H.
ioggs. He is understood to be consid ring
naming her chairman of a subcommittee
and allowing her to name
ther women as her vice chairmen, hut
le'dined to confirm this.
Mrs. Roggs is an ardent suffragist,
)ut has no sympathy with those who
vouhl her-kle the I'res dent. She re eived
the appointment in recognition
?f her ser\ n '-s as president of the
iVoman's Wilson T'nion, which had
teadcjuarters during the campaign at
:4th aii<1 ! ' streets, and which claimed
he distinction of being the first politcal
organization ??f its kind to do cam
'?* ' h '1 ? " ? .i->' in nr: i'lou mi.
Mrs. HogKs has marie her home in the
District for the iasf four years, but
>rouldly claims Virginia a*r her real
lome. Harnesfield. in Kins', George
:ounty, one of the four famous ancesral
estates on the banks of the Rotonac
the others being: Arlington.
Vlount Vernon and Gunston Hall?is
VIrs. Hoggs' estate and has been in her
arnily for more than liOO years.
The families from these old ancestral
lomes were in closest association and
ntermarried. so that they eventually
>erame as one big family.
The great-grandfather of Mrs. Hoggs
wax George Mason, who lived at Gunston
Hall. He was author of the bill of
-ightx. History records that it was to
Jeorge Mason that Washington* ami
letYerson went for counsel In matters of
>ublic importance. He was affectionately
called by his intimate friends
'Old George of Hill of Rights Fame."
Explosion Kills Two. Hurts Several.
WOOD RIVER. 111., "December 16.?
rwo men were killed and several others
were injured in an explosion that
wrecked two refining stations of the
standard Oil Company here early today.
The explosion was followed by a fire,
which, for a time, threatened ten large
tanks filled with oil. The shock was
felt for fifteen miles. ^
AGREEMENT TO END
M'LEflHWILLSUIT
Edward B. McLean to Get Estate's
Income and Control
of Newspapers.
A VOICE IN MANAGEMENT
j The McLean will contest is to be cotn|
promised. An agreement has been reachj
?'d between the American Security and
Trust Company, as executor of the estate
I of John It. McLean, and the latter's son
j and only heir, Kdward B. McLean, who
j had instituted a caveat against the will's
j provisions.
I mu~ ? t^n-ord R Mr
j a lit: a.6x J-U ~ .
J Lean the entire net income of the estate
1 during his natural life, a voice in the
j management of all properties and com|
plete editorial control of the Washington
j Post and the Cincinnati Enquirer. He is
j to have the right of access at all times
{ to the books and papers and authority to
j pass on the desirability of investments.
Friendly Suit Is Instituted.
I
J The trust company today applied to the
Probate Court for authority to enter into
j the agreement and also instituted, on the
j equity side of the court, a friendly suit
! against Edward 1J. McLean, the life-tenj
ant under the will, and his two sons, Vinson
Walsh McLean and John R. McLean,
jr.. who are beneficiaries of the estate
after the death of their father. In the
suit the trustee asks for instructions from
j the court as to its right to effect the compromise
in the manner of the administration
of its duties under the will.
Justice Stafford, to whom the matter
was presented, named a guardian ad
litem for the infant grandchildren of
John R. McLean. The guardian filed an
answer, concurring in the request of
the trustee to compromise the method
of administration. Edward B. McLean
also made answer, agreeing to the pro- j
visions of the compromise. !
Justice Stafford took the proposition
under advisement and will consider the
terms of the decree.
Basis of Agreement.
The agreement, dated yesterday, is!
between the American Security and j
Trust Company, as executor and trus- j
tee under the will of John R. McLean, !
and buwara ti. Aicnean, nis son. n js .
based on the premises that the latter i
has instituted a "caveat" to contest his
father's will and that also other matters
of controversy have arisen between
the two parties to the agreement; that
the American Security and Trust Company
believes an amicable determination
of all matters in controversy desirable
and is satisfied that its actions
in accordance with the agreement will
most fairly accomplish the purposes of
the testator, and that the son, Edward
B. McLean, believing that such amicable
fleterminatIo~n will Contribute to the
most satisfactory and efficient administration
of the estate, is also desirous
that the agreement be effected.
Terms of the Agreement.
Subject to the approval and ratifica- I
tion of the court, and upon the considerations
set forth, the agreement specifies:
Ml. The executor and trustee will advise
and consult with Kdward B. McLean
in all matters of importance relating to
the management of the estate of the said
John R. McLean, will afford him the fullest
and freest access at all times to all
accounts, books and papers connected
with its management, including the opportunity
at all times to inspect and satisfy
himself as to the character of all
investments, securities and assets thereof,
and, further, that it will be its endeavor
at all time, in so far as it can do
so consistently with its duties as executor
and trustee, to concur in the views
and wishes of the said party of the second
part in all matters respecting the management
thereof.
To Be Editor-in-Chief.
"2. That Edward Ji. McLean shall be
'continued in the position he now holds
as president of the Washington Post
Company, arid, further, shall be accorded
the position of editor-in-chief of
! both the Washington Post and the Cin|
cinnati Enquirer, with the powers and
j functions appropriately belonging to
those positions, so long as and to the
; fullest extent that the same can be
done without substantial impairment or
menace thereof to the said properties
I and consistently with the performance
I by the executor and trustee of the legal
obligations resting upon it under the
terms of the will.
j "3. Edward B. McLean shall at all
' times during his natural life and the
continued ownership by the executor
j and trustee of the capital stock of the
j Washington Post Company have the
I t ight to nominate, and be represented
! by, two members of the board of di;
rectors of said company, and the execu|
tor and trustee shall cause said noniiI
nees to be duly elected directors as
aforesaid.
Gets Entire Net Income.
"4. The. executor and trustee will,
during the lifetime of Edward B. Mc1
Lean, pay the entire net income of the
j estate to him. monthly, in so far as it
: may be practicable to pay the same
j monthly, subject to the provisions of
: the will as to alienation or anticipation.
I excepting only in the event of such
! mental or physical disability of Kdward
B. McLean, or of such other exi
traorhinary and unusual conditions, as
j shall render it so manifestly to his b'-st
I interests that ihe said income, or rait
i thereof, shall he by it applied to his
j use and benefit that it would clearly
be a violation of its duties under the
will not to so apply it; any such application,
instead of payment to him, to
: impose upon the executor and trustee
the burden of establishing that the
| former course is required, for the pur;
poses solely of his best interests as
: aforesaid, and, in such event, the said
j income, or part thereof, as the case.
may be, shall be applied to his use
\ and benefit, and in so far as practicable
1 as it occurs. In any event, the net
I income shall at all times during the
| lifetime of Edward B. Mcl^ean, either
; by payment, or application, or both.
Conservation
of Paper
Every citizen is called upon to see
that not a pound of paper is wasted.
Demand from every clerk that any
unnecessary wrapping of packages
be dispensed with.
If you have no further use for today's
newspaper save it for the
school children's playground fund.
Call Main 6036 and ask for the
nearest public school to your home
and the old papers will be sent for.
*
]
i
X X ^
sijjl!!
an aforesaid, be entirely disposed of. i
j without the. reservation, retention or
| accumulation of any part thereof.
Rights Under Will Stand.
Nothing herein contained shall I
be a limitation of or upon any of the
! rights of Edward B. McLean under the j
\ will, nor of 01 upon any of the terms I
of the said will relating to direction or I
| supervision by him of the Cincinnati j
Enquirer, rior of or upon any other pro- j
visions of the will in respect to his
being freely and at all times consulted
by the executorcuul trustee in its representation
of 'fffPT?sTat3 with respect
to the newspaper properties in the city
of Washington, or in respect to his
being consulted in all matters of importance
relating to the management
of the estate.
"f. And. in consideration of the fore
going. Edward H. McLean agrees that '
he will, immediately upon the eon- }
formation by the court of the stipula- j
J tions in this agreement contained, f
j cause an order of dismissal of his said j
j caveat to be entered in the Probate!
[Court of the District of Columbia." !
The agreement is signed by Charles
' J. Bell, president of the American So- j
Jcurity and Trust Company, for that
I corporation, and by Edward B. Mcj
Lean.
i ;
Refers to Controversies.
i
j The equity proceedings filed by the j
trust company, through Attorneys J. J. j
Darlington and Frank J. IFogan. set j
forth the caveat of Edward P.. McLean
filed July 7, 1916, and it is stated that!
other controversies have arisen be-|
tweeri the plaintiff and .Mr. .McLean!
concerning, in addition to other things,
the proper construction of various provisions
of the will and of the powers
of the trustee and the rights of Mr.
McLean, the life tenant. A basis has
been reached, the court is advised, for
an amicable adjustment and determination
of all of these controversies arid
differences, and it is submitted to the
court for approval.
The trust company declares it has the
right, in the opinion of its counsel, to
enter into the agreement and asserts that
such arrangement in the administration j
i by it of the estate would relieve the ex- j
j pense of a costly and protracted litigation i
! and would facilitate and make possible a !
i more advantgeous and beneficial admin- !
j istration. The agreement, it is claimed, !
j would also advance and protect the in- i
terests of all concerned in the estate and j
j would aid third parties by removing doubt ;
as to the proper and competent repre- I
sentative of the estate with authority to ,
act for it in the management of its varied i
interests. j
Attorneys Wilton J. Lambert. George!
j P. Hoover and former Senator Joseph \V. .
j Bailey of Texas represented Edward B. |
Mcl^ean.
MR. MARSHALL INDORSES
FEDERAL EMPLOYES' PLEA
Vice President Expresses His Approval
of Retirement Legislation,
Committee Secretary States.
An Invitation extended yesterday to |
i Vice President Marshall to address the!
; civil service retirement mass meeting:,!
to be held in January, was declined. '
owing to the fact that the Vice Presi-*
; dent will then he out of the cjty, but \
the latter expressed his belief in the ex- i
j pediency of retirement legislation. I
| states C. Eder Heed, secretary of the t
joint retirement committee of the naval j
gun factory. The invitation was ex;
tended by Jasper D. Evans of the Inj
ternational Boilermakers' Union, No.
I 4r?0; Ft. IF. Alcorn of the International
' Molders. No. 215; F. W. Lee of Columbia I
Lodge, No. 174, I. A. of M., and Mr. I
1 Reed.
; The Vice President also is quoted as
j saying that he does not believe iri a j
Compulsory icuicinciu "S*. "ui ni4?i ?iri
employe should be allowed to work as
long as he is able satisfactorily to per.form
his duties; that physical fitness
and not age should determine the question
of his retirement.
Representative Edward Keating of
Colorado yesterday introduced a bill,
under the provisions of which anyclassified
civil service employe among
the present superannuates, having attained
the age of sixty-five,. may apply
for retirement at a rate of pension
varying with the number of years of
his or her service; also that incapacitated
employes over sixty years may be
retired with the approval of the.head
1 of department.
?
RAILWAY CHIEFS CONFER
WITH THE BROTHERHOODS
Informally Discuss the Proposition
to Settle Differences Out
of Court.
CHICAGO. December 10.? Ilale Holden,
prpesident o? the Chicago, Turlington
and Quincy railroad, who was
chairman of the committee of railroad
executives which met President Wilson
and the brotherhood officials in Washington
last summer, when a railroad
strike was threatened, confirmed today
the report that informal conferences1
had been held by railroad representatives
with brotherhood officials concerning
a settlement out of court of
the controversy between the railroads
and their employes.
.Negotiations Under Way.
W. G. Pee, president of the Brotherhood
of Railway Trainmen, also an- j
nounced at Evansville, Ind., last night j
that negotiations are under way he- !
twecn leaders of the four brother-j
hoods and operating officials of sev- i
oral railroads looking* to a settlement, j
of the entire controversy before JanuTOMORROW
"MEDAL OF HONOR MEN"?Storiea
of heroes who saved human lives
during the past fiscal year and have
been awarded gold and silver medals
by the Secretary of the Treasury.
I "DOES IT PAY A BUSINESS MAN TO
MARRYV by JAMES H COLLINS
?An article which should have
potent appeal to most readers.
"WATCHING THE MIGHTY MOVEMENTS
OF FOOD PRODUCTS AND
SENDING OUT DAILY REPORTS
I ROM WASHINGTON." by JAMES
B MORROW?An article of especial
interest in these days of the high
cost of living.
"A MATCH FOR MYRTIE an amusing
storv. by CLARENCE BUDINGTON
KELLAND.
ALASKAN REINDEER MEAT FOR
UNITED STATES MARKETS." bv
FRANK G. CARPENTER?The reindeer
?s a substitute for bee-f and '
what has been done already toward [ j
potularizing it.
"SHIPS THAT COMMIT SUICIDE." by !
GEORGE F. WORTS.
"VALUE OF RUMANIA'S WHEAT AND '
OIL FIELDS TO GERMANY." a !
timely article, by CHARLES M. I
PEPPER.
\ "BEAUTIFUL MEN" ? A two-page J j
spread ot pnotogTapns.
THE SPORT OF KINGS." by ARTHUR
SOMERS ROCHE?Another install- j
inent of this intensely interesting I
I serial.
! "TEN MILLION SCHOOL CHILDRFN
OF FRANCE AND BELGIUM WRITE
CHPISTMAS LETTERS TO BOYS
AND GIRLS Or AMERICA." by
STERLING HELLIG.
! "CHECKING UP ON LARSEN." a
Shorty McCabe story, by SEWELL
FORD.
A FEW INTERESTING FUR FASHIONS
OF THE SEASON." by ANNE
RITTINHOUSE.
"OF COURSE THERE IS A SANTA
CLAUS!" by BRUCE BARTON.
"DOG HEROES WIN HONORS IN
FRANCE."
I "THE FIGHT AGAINST TRACHOMA" j
?How the U. S. public health service
has confined this dread disease
of the eyelids to a comparatively j
small area.
I "THE RAMBLER WRITES OF GI3- I
BORO AND NEIGHBORHOOD I
TRACTS."
"REVIEWS OF THE NEW BOOKS." j
"WORK OF THE GOVERNMENTS \
MATT. BAG REPAIR SHOP." '
"THE MENACE OF PROGRESS." and
"EMPTY STOCKINGS," and "THE
THUNDER THIEF." and "IT PAYS
TO ADVERTISE," by HERBERT
KAUFMAN.
IN THE
SUNDAY STAR
4
"Z-_ ? ""
t ?I
I arv 1. when the ^Vdamson law is to go I
! into effect.
j Both Mr. Lee and Mr. Holden said, ,
I however, that the discussion had not j
' progressed far enough even to suggest !
j a basis for a permanent settlement. j
Meetings ''Purely Informal/7
l "I don't feel that I can say much more
i ban that the conferences have been
; held between the brotherhood men and
the railroad officials," said Mr. Holden.
t "The meetings have been of a purely
, informal nature and to date there has
. been no suggestion of an ultimate adi
justmenL"
I 14 ON LOST SHIP MISSING.
I Steamer Vala and Eight Other Vessels
Destroyed.
OHRISTIANIA, December 16.?The
j Swedish steamer Vala has been deI
stroyed by a mine and fourteen members
of her crew are missing, according to
the Aftenposten.
! LONDON, December 16.?The Norwe;
gian steamer Brask, of 905 tons net.
has been sunk, says a Lloyd's shipping i
'agency announcement today. The crew J
I has been landed.
I Lloyd's announces tlie following: "The ;
Norwegian steamer Kaupanger has j
I The I 'ortugueso steamer Leea, for|
mei ly the German steamer Enos, an<J
the British steamer Glencoe are rei
ported sunk.
The Emma Laurens has been sunk.
The crew was saved.
A Router dispatch from Christiania
reports the sinking of the steamer Bjor
by a torpedo. The crew was landed.
The Danish schooner Solon and the
Swedish schooner Polander have been
sunk, says a Router's dispatch from
Copenhagen. It adds that the crews
were saved.
JOSEPH LEITER INJURED
AT HIS HUNTING LODGE
Struck in Eye by End of Reed, But
Will Not Lose His
Eyesight.
NEW ORLEANS. December 16.?
Joseph Loiter of Chicago and Washington.
D. C.. formerly noted wheat j
operator, suffered a serious injury to
one of his eyes when it was struck by
the end of a reed while he was hunting
ducks at his new fifty-thousand-dollar
hunting lodge, near the mouth of the
.Mississippi, early this week, according
to reports brought here today. A specialist
from this city hastened to the
lodge on a tug, and he reported Mr.
Leiter would not lose the sight of his
?-*.> -wr. eApcuicu 10 return nere
Sunday, en route to Chicago.
No word had been received at Mr.
L/oiter'a home concerning the accident
up to the time the above telegram was
received by The Star this afternoon.
Mrs. inciter is in Washington.
Mr. I.eiter's private secretary stated
that Mr. Inciter had gone' to New Or- ,
leans, hut that no word concerning any
mishap had reached this city.
COST OF ARMY RATION.
Government Expends Thirty Cents
Per Man for Border Force.
SAN ANTONIO. Tex., December 16.? j
The daily rations for soldiers in the bor- j
der service cost .'10 cents per man for |
December, an Increase of more than 5
cents over the figure of a year ago.
Officers in the quartermaster branch
say the increase is due to the higher
cost of beans, flour, sugar, lard, butter,
vegetables and fruits. Because of
increased prices of leather and cloth
for shoes and uniforms, it also costs
the government more to clothe the soldiers.
Approximately 150,000 pounds of turkey
that would be needed for the
Christmas dinner of the soldiers will
cost the government 35 cents a pound,
or 1 cent more tb&n the price paid for
^their Thanksgiving turkey.
GERMANY'S ENVOY j!
SEES MING
Teutonic Peace Proposals (
Discussed. But Terms Are
Not Mentioned.
NOTES GO FORWARD TODAY I
Count von Bernstorff. the German j li
ambassador, conferred with Secretary |
Lansing today, seeking: information of j b
the attitude of the United States to- : t
ward the peace proposals of the cen- C
tral powers; to discuss the general sub- j n
ject of peace from this government's J o
viewpoint and to give any information j t
Mr. Lansing might desire on the atti- a
tude of the German government. t
Terms Not Discussed.
Ambassador Bernstorff said after a I
ffen-minute visit with Secretary Lan- c
sing:
"We did not discuss peace terms in I
any way. 1 have not received any for- I
mal terms and the American govern- c
ment knows officially that no formal 1
terms have been proposed. All Ger- x
many has suggested is that the belligerents
get together arid talk. If that
proposal is accepted definite terms nat- r
urally will be discussed, but till then J f
it will not be proper to mention them. : ^
My visit to the Secretary was purely)]
for general discussion." I j
The ambassador indicated that the f
actual place for the holding of v. con- jt
ference and the question of whether it J {
should be by direct negotiation or j j
through intermediaries, were questions (
entirely dependent on the willingness (
of the entente allies to dis'-uss the
situation at all. He indicated also that
he had not discussed the American
action in sending on the Teutonic notes
without comment, as that was purely a t
matter for this country to decide for itself.
i
To Be Forwarded Today. ]
Secretary Lansing said early today t
the peace notes probably would go s
forward before night. One uniform '
American translation will be sent to j
all the governments where the United <
States represents the central allies, and ?
the original texts will be forwarded '
later, probably by mail. g
President Wilson's decision to for- <
ward the central powers' peace noxes 10 >
the entente allies without any media- i
tion offer by the American government,
left today only the task of translation
and revision of phraseology to
be finished before they are transmitted.
The President's determination to
have the United States governmen act
only as a medium for exchange of the
notes between the hostile belligerents
was made after a prolonged cabinet
meeting late yesterday.
Slight Difference in Wording.
The notes received from Germany,
Austria and Turkey were meant to be
identical, but the translations received
here differ slightly iri wording, and an '
effort was made today to harmonize ^
them. Some officials suggested that
the American representatives in each '
of the central allies* capitals would be
required to transmit the documents direct
to American diplomats in the en- i
tente countries j
GREECE HEEDS ENTENTE ;
WITHOUT RESERVATION :
:
Desires to Give Another Proof of j ]
Friendly Sentiments. Says
Athens Dispatch. | <
i
i
By the Associated Press. i
PARIS, December 16.?An official telegram
announcing that Greece had accepted
unreservedly the conditions of the
alliAC! rpeeived at the foreicn
at midnight, according to the Petit Journal.
*
LONDON, December 16.?According to '
an athens dispatch to Reuter's. Greece 1
has replied to the allies* ultimatum by '
saying that it accepts the demands made 1
on it, as it is desirous of giving another |
manifest proof of the sincerely friendly ]
sentiments which have always animated 1
it toward the entente.
The reply says that no hostile move- (
ments of troops ever have taken place or j 1
been projected and that the transfer of ! 1
material northwards will immediately ]
cease. Orders have already been given,
it is stated, regarding the movements of :
troops and war material and will be car- '
ried out as rapidly as possible.
In respect to the attack on British and *
French marines in Athens on December j .
1 the government declares that it desires |
to give every legitimate satisfaction and *
refers to its proposals to arbitrate. It ox- c
presses the hope that the allied powers
will reconsider their decision to continue I
the blockade, which, it says, is straining
relations and impressing public opinion.
The reply concludes with the expression
of a desire by the government and
people of Greece for a resumption of the
excellent traditional confidence which ;
previously existed between Greece and the
entente nations. 1
*t <i
Prison-Made Print Paper Discussed. s
XT. PAUL. December 16.?A nronnsul
for the manufacture of print paper at ! \
the state penitentiary on tlie same i
basis as twine now is manufactured j
was discussed yesterday by the legislative
committee of the Minnesota Edi
torial Association. The committee de- ! t
cided to investigate the feasibility of j
co-operative buying as a remedy* for i 1(
the high cost of paper. j t
; t
j t
? j e
DAY IN CONGRESS. 1
Senate: j j'
Met at noon. J P
Commerce committee deferred ! *
action on $50,000,000 flood control ,1
bill for Mississippi and Sacramento
rivers.
Resumed debate on bill to establish
prohibition in the Ilistrict
of Columbia. r,
Houiie: _ it
Met at noon. s'
Resumed discussion of the leg- w
islative appropriation bill. ft
Brig. Gen. McCain testified be- &
fore the military affairs committee.
J*
Chairman Henry of rules commitee
announced he would oppose 3
any food embargo legislation. n
f u
SMASHES GERMAN
LINENEARVERDUN
Sen. Nivelle Advances Two
Miles Over a Front
. of Six.
/
JERLIN ADMITS REVERSE
PARIS. December 1C?.?As li s last act
efore assuming the t hief command of
he Frnech armies ??n the western front
Jen. Nivelle yesterday smashed the (ic>
tian line east of the Mouse along a front
f six miles. The victory has adxanced %
he French positions two miles, and they
re now within a short distance ??f where
he Germans stood at the outset of the
:reat Verdun drive The military /authorities
describe the victory as compete
and crushing, and carried out with>ut
a hit< h.
Since his last gre.it stroke, when the
ilood-soaked ruins of Fort Vaux and
ioiiaumont fell once more into the hands
>f Verdun's defenders, Gen. Nivelle has
ieen quietly preparing to push his adantage
by an attack on a larger s ale.
den and guns had been assembled, shells
>iled and everything was in readiness
or the moment when the general should
:ee his opportunity. Then the bl??v le 1ft
ike a thunderbolt. A terrific artillery
(reparation flattened the German deenses.
then the guns were elevated and
hrew a curtain of steel, behind which
he infantry from every trench from
'epper Hill to beyond Pcmloup (J.isiied
orvard on an enem;. still stunned by
he bombardment.
Powerless to Stem Tide.
Tn places the Germans gallantly
drove to hold their ground, but Gen.
k'ivelle's dispositions were so well
nade that they were generally poweress
to stem, even momentarily, the
ide. One after another Vaeherauvlllo
md kouvemont villages. Ghambrette
'arm and the Hardaumont and Beson,*aux
works fell without the defenders
laving time to carry away either guns
>r material. and" prisoners began to
itream steadily reanvard to pens pre?ared
for their reception.
The weather, according to hitherto
tccepted notions, was all against the
iffensive. It was wet and misty, and
he French officers believe that this
'act undoubtedly led the Germans to
niscalculate the probabilities of atack.
The wretched weather did not
irevent also the aviators from render
ng valuable aid to the attack, and
heir s<i\Ices are believed to have had
ia important bearing on the fact that
he Fiench losses were singularly
small. The large number of prisoners,
lccording to latest advices nearly
>,000, is an indication of the surprise
lature of the onset.
Nivelle Man of Hour.
The news of the victory was received in
Paris with enthusiasm as a welcome retfef
to the gloomy tidings from Rumania. * ?
Sen. Nivelle is the man of the hour. His
achievement justifies, it is felt, his
choice as commander-in-chief and augure
well for the future.
The French plan of attack was drawn
up by Gen. Nivelle. now the commanderin-chief,
with the concurrence of lien.
Petain. who at the time was his superior
officer. The assault proper was left to
ien. Mangin. It was made by five divisions.
or close to 100.000 men. under
command of such leaders as Gen. do
Maud'Huy and Gen. Du Passage.
The front which the French infantry
lad held since the recapture of I)ouaunont
and Vaux ran thus: The southern
dopes of Pepper hill, east of the Meuse,
between Bras and Vacherauville; Hauiromont
wood. Haudromont quarries, the
region north of the village. Fort Douaumont.
the quarries northeast of Fort
Douaumont. the small wood southeast of
Port Douaumont. Hardaumont wood, the
village of Vaux and the Fort of Vaux.
Behind that line Gen. Nivelle had disributed
groups of powerful ba ter.es.
which for seventy hours before the attack
lanunered the German positions, particularly
tho.e on Pepper hill and at Hard&unont
and Bizonvaux.
Necessary to Improve Line.
From the positions occupied by the
French it may be seen tli t they were
installed on a .series of heights, some
dominating the German positions, but
sthers being under the direct lire of
their opponents. To improve and
strengthen their line it was necessary
:o wrest from their ad versa ly the
famous Pepper hil'.. l/tuvemont, the
rest of Hill 272 which cjm r.ands
Fosses wood. Ha Baache a??d Hac8,u!?
ivood, north of I'ouaumont fort, as 1 ell
is the important uo'-ks at H trdaw-.
nont. west of bouai mont an i . o ta
f Vaux, and if possible th? viliag.- of
Bezonvaux. most of whose hoj.-ea are
n the W'oevrc. T!:e . harch of this
rillage is on the southern s opes of
iill 329. upon th o h< side ot h ii
ies the village <;f <> rone of ti?e
irst towns car1 ied by the Germans at
he beginning of their victor ouj
idvance.
Prompt'.v at 10 a. rn tic five ?tta<kng
divisions, each of which eo/erei
i front of o:o- and o le-cua te miles,
idvanced behind the s?ue.e,i 'ire of
tuns of all calihei =. Th?> swarmel
apil'y into the German trenches Toe
3ei man troops in these po nt ons, surprised
by the sud if nnes * of the attack,
)ffe:ed compirativel> litt'.e resist ;nc?.
Cheer as They Attack.
In the village of Vacherauville. where
he Germans had installed a quantity
>f machine guns, the struggle was
harp, but none the lejjg short. More
o the east the French formations
harged the slopes of Pepper hill,
arrying all before them. As they
ushed to the attack the soldiers
heered. and from time to lime the
Marseillaise." roared by the stronghroated
poilus. could be heard abo\e
he chorus of the cannon.
With Vacherauville and Pepper hill
nst. it became evident to the Germans
hat resistance would be futile, and
hey retired in fairly good order. On
he Vaeherauville-Reaumont road; powver.
French troops suddenly appeared
n the rear of the Germans. The French
ad crept along a small ravine running
rom Pepper hill to this road. On; seeng
the French the Germans bolted,
browing away rifles, knapsacks and
ouches. From the top of the hill the
'rench could see them running, and,
flouting with joy, they dashed after
hem.
Trenches Choked With Prisoners.
Half an hour later the French
cached the extremity of the Louvelont
crest, close to the village of the
ime name. There they joined hands
ith the formations which had started
om Haudromont wood and had proressed
almost as rapidly along tho j
istern side of Pepper Hill and the
ras-Louvemont road. Lrf>uveti*ont was
;ormed out of hand and a large con- j
ngent of prisoners was rounded up. . J
y this time the Germans were sur- J
mdering freely OS the Un% and
is communics^ MM tNso
H J
