IGHT
Cmmmg
linger
NIGHT
&XTRA
EXTRA
VOL. III. NO. 81
PRICE ONE CENT4
PHILADELPHIA, SATURDAY, DECEMBER 16, 1D16
CortiionT, 101, lit tm fcsue l.rmit Commjii,
tfSTR
r
c. L.
B
I
I
kWWj'HI W&K
mmSlKKSmSSSLx -''ir "181 $' i t J 5 , - , -thr
Ull iSiiwiES 111 - w .'-' ' 'PI
lftllli.9 1 P3fbm Bill 1111' sPVlf s iP ' m
BS7BI9nBHSiDHHHf'9,V(iliB9HMiHiBBaBBB?lS9nSEi iJBsrTsEJsvrl -lissB 'Bsest?' jTsf lira.. JU i
Bllflff flM
BMaTHPffiifnsfflHTTssiss JsVsssssssssssssY$hw
Tho giant evergreen cost $500 to
MUNSTERBERG DIES
AT CLASS LECTURE
I' Noted Harvard Professor
Falls Dead While Address
ing Girl Students
PRO-GERMAN PARTISAN
PROF. HUGO MUNSTERBERG
, One of tho leading psychologists of
Uw world and professor' of ppy-
' dropped dead today while lecturing
til a class of women nt RadclifTo
College. Professor Munsterberg
was one of tho leading protago
nists of the Kaiser and "Kultur" in
this country.
BOSTON', Dec. JO. Prof Hugo Munster-
burs". professor of psychology of Harvard
College, fell dead early today whll5 address
Inr a class nt Itadcllffc. Intenso excitement
prevailed among the girls In tho classroom.
Xftjfessor Munstcrburg was flfty-threo
Sears old, and had seemingly been In per
fect health up to tho moment of his death.
Death was believed duo to heart disease.
He had been worklntr nlBht nnd day since
lh war, answering criticisms In magazine
articles made against him. and had been
laboring under Intenso nervous strain.
Professor Munsterberg fell to tho floor
r4 died within a few minutes after being
assisted to a chair. The medical examiner
wis summoned, but did not Immediately
announce the causa of tho famous lec
turer death.
With his last breath. Professor Munster
tcrr attempteil to quell the disturbance
which spread through his class of girls us
he fell.
President Lowell, of Harvard University,
li In New York attending a meeting of the
League to Enforca Peace. He was notified
by telephone and will leave for Doston at
enee.
The psychologist's wife was notified by
Dean Brlggs, of Harvard.
BOII.V IN GERMANY
Hugo Munsterberg was born In Danzig,
Germany, June 1, 1863. His early educa
tion wea received at institutions In Lelpsla
nJ Heidelberg. In 1887 he attended Har
vard and receded an 1,1 D. degree from
Washington University In 1301 Lafayette
conferred Lltt D. upon him In 190T. He be.
came Instructor and assistant professor of
psychology In Freiburg University, Since
Ml he had been professor at Harvard.
Professor Munsterberg was tho author of
many works, principally on tho subject of
Psychology. Slnca 1903 ha liad been editor
f Harvard Psychological Studies. His
contributions to current publications were
Proline, especially since the beginning of
to Eurpean war. He was an ardent Qer-
,i CoaHnued oa 1'ase Twtj. Column I'lro
THJWEATHER
FOItHOAHT ' '
For Philadelphia and vlcliAtvValr
! continued ccW tonight; Sunday ln
trtating cloudineatytnd tlowlu rising torn
perature, moderate westerly winds oeeom
Inn voriaor
IJUtGTK or MAY
125 Lf! ' TI2n- Mooa rU .11 JS7B.ro.
UELAVVAUK KIKK T1HK t'lLVNiiKS
CHKTNUT OTIiBBT
ifK.V.,r lam J-mw wt 131 n.m.
i.r 0 to jo. HUiri iltr Sr am.
TEJlk-tJtVTlUK AT VMU HOl'K
,!f 9I "'I III Bl 11 81 Jl
41 &
UEL1I JL ., . .
FRANKFORD'S CHRISTMAS
bring to the Frnnkford High School, at Oxford pike nnd Hnrrlson street. Tho whole
Evo exercises.
GERMANS ADMIT
Berlin Also Reports Pierc
ing of British Line.
Near Ypres
FRENCH TAKE 3000 MEN
BLHLIN. Dec l.
The Krencli have succeeded In pushing
back Ocrman forces from some of their
most ndvnnced positions In the Verdun ills
trlct. It was announced In today's official
statement The Teutonic troops, It was
nntd, had gono Into prepared second lino
defenses
Tho same statement reported ns success
ful a new thrust by tho German against
British troopi nround Ypres.
The Wnr Oltlco located tho scene of tho
French "push" nnd the new German sec
ond lino positions ns around Tnlourlrige and
tho heights north of Loiivcmont and Chain
brcttcs nnd south of Bezonvaux (These
positions aro nil northwest of Douaumont )
Tho new Herman thrust nt the llrltlsh
lines occurred southeast of XUIebekc. two
miles southeast of Ypres. The Berlin state
ment dctallH tho ndnnce to tho second
lino of tho enemy, tho gnrrison of which
lied
PARIS. Dec. 16.
France's answer to German) 'a peace pro
posal Is:
Wresting of moro than twelve piaro
miles of territory from the enemy.
Capture of mre than 900ft. Germans, -Gain
of numerous German trenches, tho
villages of Vacherauvllte and Louvemont,
the farms of Chambrcttes and the,' formica
tlons of Hardaumont and Dczonvaux.
The nnswer was another one of Gerenal
Nlvclle'a sudden "pushes" In tho Verdun
sector. The newly created commander of
French nrmles In tho north nnd no'theasl
opened his attack yesterday mornlnf, and
within a few hours had again swept' away
from the onemy territory which It had
takon tlirin months of sanguinary fighting
to obtain. It was another stroke such ns
Nlvelle, then commanding the Verdun sec
tor, tftccuted when ho wrested Fort Douau
mont from tho Germans
Four divisions of French troops won the
victory north of Verdun against German
troops of nt least live divisions, today's
olllclnl statement said. The enemy made
no counter-attack seeking to win back the
ground they lost.
The men taken prisoners In the French
advance camo from regiments In five dif
ferent German divisions
Tho olllclnl statement also detailed
lively shelling during the night over the
entire front from the Meuse to tho Woevro.
Best available maps and gazetteers do
not show any Rumanian town named
CenUuued on Psae Two, Column nn
LIQUOR DEALERS' SLUSH
FUND CASE REOPENED
Corrupt Practices Act Assailed
in Trial of Brewery Po
litical Activities
PITTSHimOH. Dec H The Kederul
corrupt practices act. under which cor
porations ore prohibited from contributing
to political campaigns, was attacked us
unconstitutional by n formidable array of
coynsel representing seventy-two Indicted
brewery corporations, before Judge W. II.
S. Thomson. In the United States District
Court here today
The arguments reopened the Govern
ment's fight against the saloons' partici
pation In elections In Pennsylvania In which
United States Senators and Congressmen
were chosen.
United States Dlstrlot Attorney L.
Lovvry Humes was opposed by Attorney
James Scajlet. of Danville; D. V. Hlbbard
and S. P. Tull, ot Philadelphia, and George
K, sh4W. of Jhts tdty. Three of the brew,
eris are Pittsburgh corporations, eighteen
Vhlladelphla companies and the remaining
scattered over the State.
Attorney Hlbbard, opening for the brew.
ers, attacked the embargo on corporation
attributions to politics as abridging lbs
-i. A pjia nmnl nil
right or free epeesu - .
Indicated this would be the main contention
of hhj lde. Brewery contributions to po
litical campaigns were educational, not cor
rupting, he maintained.
He moved that the Indictments b
ouashed becauke the Federal sectton is un
eonstltutlonal and baus nothln In
IndtetmenU shows h. indicted breweries
entered Uto wwpUacy,
TREE READY TO GO
GIFT PURCHASERS
DEFY KING WINTER
Coldest Day Sees Throngs
Pushing Into City on
Delayed Trains
RECORD FIVE-INCH FALL
Figures on Snowstorm
and Day's Temperatures
MILES of Rtrccts to be elenned
(cqunl to GO-foot highway from
Philadelphia to St. Louis) 1000.
Depth of snow recorded 5 inches.
Amount for cntiro season in 101-1
nnd 1915 35.55 inches.
Amount of snow to ho cleaned
(cqunl in bulk to livo City Hall build-lngs)-37,822,'222
cubic yards.
Number of men and teams cm
ployed in removal work 3500 men,
500 tenmn nnd 13 nutoplows.
Hourly tcmpcraturei beginning
with midnight:
Midnight
1 it. m. .
1! a. in..
'I n. tn . .
4 a. m. .
5 a. in. .
fl n. tn. .
7 a. nt..
..I
27
25
23
10
17
10
1G
8 a. m.
!) a. m.
10 a. m.
11 a. n.
Noon ...
1 p. m.
2 p. tn.
IS
17
19
20
23
24
24
This, the coldest day nf the season so
far. brought fnitli, as an aftermath of yes
terday's snon storm, train, troltey nnd other
delays, together wjthjivcJrdjiraoKs-tiMlKhts..
tefephone and trolley wires, nnd n score of
accidents, none cf which was sivlous so
far ns could be learned.
The snowfall measured five Inches In ln;
dependence Square, whore the local Govern
ment weather wizards tako the ntllclal
count for the city. It was tho llrst snow
storm of the winter.
Despite the snow, the cold nnd the wind,
Christmas shoppers were nut again In force
bright nnd early. The city's main thor
oughfares and the department store districts
were crowded, snow or mi snow, and for
all the countless de!as nn all Incoming
tralni nnd on the trolley lines.
Although the weather was both slippery
and sloppy under foot, this morn.ng found
Philadelphia basking In bright sunihlne,
which seemed tn do Its be-t to bring tho
mercury upward.
Tho temperature dropped to sixteen de
grees at a. in., nnd the coldest to date
had been on December H. when the mer
cury dropped to twenty-five degrees.
Th sudden fall was due tn the cold
winds arriving from frosty New I.ngland.
New York. Incidentally, li having Its worst
snowstorm In many years, twelve Inches
being recorded, nnd Boston similarly Is
covered with a mantle of snow several
inches deep
Philadelphia's storm, according to tore-
tontlnuFtl on l'ee Tno, Column four
IRON WORKS WRECKED .
BY DYNAMITE BLASTS
Explosions Follow Conviction of
David Caplan in Los Angeles
Times Case
1.03 ANanl.KS, Dee. 16 Hollowing
two explosions, the Llewellyn Iron Works
was practically destroyed by lire here early
today, and the iJiey Manufaaturlng Com
pany was seriously damaged, a few hours
after David Caplan. charged wllh murder
In connection with the Times dynamltlpK
six years ago, was found guilty of voluntary
manslaughter The low Is estimated at abou,
1500,000 I'orty workmen In the plant all
escaped without Injury.
The Llewellyn Iron Works, where the
two explosions took place, was damaged on
Christmas V,e, six years ago. by a bomb
planted by Ortle McManigal, confessed dy.
namlter.
The pollja believe today's nre to have
been of Incendiary origin.
HELD ON FRAUD CHARGE
, , ,
Woman Accused of Uttering Worthless
Checks
Mrs. Amelia. Moon, who was accused of
passing worthless ahecks on several hotels
In the central part of the city, was held In
1809 bail today for a further hearing by
Magistrate Persch.
The woman said she and her husband,
who recently left her, had a Joint ac
count at several banks and that he drew
oil the money without her knowledge. She
also said that he spent most of an Inheri
tance of 119.940 left her by a relative.
UP
community will Join in Chrlstmns-
PHONE CO. TO GIVE
MILLIONS IN BONUS
5250,000 to I3e Distributed
Among Bell Employes
in Philadelphia
ON BASIS OF SERVICE
Approximately 5000 emptojes of the Pell
Telephone Company In this city will receive
nt the first nf tho year a bonut equivalent
to either two or threo weeks' srlary, ac
cording to the length of time they havo
beeiv In tho companv's employ The total
amount to bo distributed In Phllndelphl.t
will be close to (2S0.PO0, according tu ex
ecutive of tho company The greater part
of this will go to girl operators
Tho Western fnlon Telegraph Company
likewise will distribute bonuiei among 'Its
Philadelphia omplnN ei to the amount of
approximately MO.000. All mploveH who
havo been with the company since Jniitinry
1. I9U, and who recelvo :0JO or less an
nually wilt participate. These employes
number about six hundred
The Standard OH Company nf New Jer
sey at tho Cinulen illation. Cooper Creek
nnd Ki'deral street, will m.ike li similar
distribution of bonuses, l-icli concern tins
adopted n different method of apportioning
tho bonuses.
All rmploes ivho have been In the service
of the Hell Company for moro than oivijear
nnd who recelvo $S0OO or le per enr will
rerlvi ihe equivalent of three weeks' nav.
while- those oMhe vtifciatXritTXtotiWWfn'
In tho service more than lh.reo months, but
lesi than a year, will recelvo tho equivalent
of two weeks' pay Uinplovcs receiving
morn than J300O. but less than J1000 a ear,
will participate In the bonus, but on n
different basis.
In the cntiro Pennsylvania district, which
Includes Camden, nn approximate total nf
ITS0.000 vrlll.bn distributed among 15.100
cmplovcs The announcement of tho bonin
was made In New York by Theodoio N.
Vail, president of the American Telcphono
nnd Telegraph Cuinpiny According to hlx
announcement n total of ffi.000.000 will be
divided amfuiK tho employes of tho com
panies constituting the Hell system.
The 'WVKtern I'nlon Company will give
ench messenger boy a fl.it sum of $:ti
Other emploves who receive JtSOO or less
annually will receive nn amount euulvnlcnt
to seven per cont nf their annual salary
and those who receive between J1200 nnd
200O will, receive nn amount t-iutvnlcut
to six por cent of their nnnunl salary. Tho
distribution Is being made today.
Tho Standard OH Company employes will
recelvo bonuses of from ten tn twenty per
cent nn their iiniiual salaries, depending un
the amount. Men rated nt less than 11000
a jear will recelvo twenty per cent, IIioho
between 11000 nnd JJO0O a year. (Uteen
iwr cent, nnd those more than K0O0 n Jtsir.
I ten per cent bonus.
HEINIE MILLER CHOSEN
TO LEAD PENN TEAM
Brilliant End on Varsity Team
Unanimous Choice for Leader
of 1917 Team
Henry J. (Heinle) Miller, one of the best
ends that ever held down a wing position
on the renn eleven, today was unanimously
chosen to captain tho 1917 University of
Pennsylvania football team at the meeting
of the varsity football men In the training
house. Miller has been a member of the
Ited and lilue varsity for two seasons nnd
plaved end on his freshman team.
Miller has been a gridiron star for the
last seven ears. four years at Merporsburg
and three years at Penn. He played end on
his freshman team, and last year was so
yaluable that the coaches were at sea
whether to place him at fullback or end
This season Kolwell lost no lime In finding
his right position, and the result was he
wbs one of the beat ends In theIiast during
the past season.
His record has bn a remarkable una.
Not one during libs seven years of football
has a minute been taken out for injuries,
his ruggwl physique enabling him to stand
up under theMtrrible battering that any
brilliant football player U certain to un.
dergo.
Miller Is a native of Wllllarasport, Pa.,
and U twenty-three years old. lie U a
brother of Allle MllUr. star quarterback and
eaptalq of the Peon 19 eleven, and the
player who played an important part In
the defeat of Cornell In 1901. Miller oouiea
at a football family, as lie has another
brother who was , Ur at Tome Institute,
1 where, JJlU-wM bead. eesa.
QUICK
ROADS ALLOWED TO PUT OFF RATE ADVANCE
WASHINGTON, Dec. 10. Transcontinental railroads were today
given authority by tho Interstate Commerce Commission to postpone
voluntarily from December 20 until March 1, 1017, a schedule or
Increased rated on cnstbouml caiload shipments of canned goons,
beans, bstley. wlno and drtcrt fruit. The new schedules would In
crease present rtitss ten cents a hundred pounds on cnrlonils nnd tweu-ty-flvc
cents a hundred pounds on less than cat loads.
WILSON .TO NAME DUVAL WEST AS JUDGE
WASHINGTON, Dec. 10. Duval West, who was one of Presi
dent WHson'b pctsonnl envoys to investigate conditions In Mexico,
will be named federal Jttdgo in Texas, It waa learned today. Ills
nomination will gu to tho Senate" probably next week.
TO UE ARRESTED FOR AIDING MEXICAN FACTIONS
lit. PAHO. Tcv, Dec. It!. Wholesale nrnits nf Americans hcio nnd nt other
points nlong Iho border, licensed of breach nf tho neutrality laws In fotncnllnR ir
Hiding Iho revolutionary actions of different Mexican fnctloni, nro planned by
United Stntei Sccict .Service ngents Members of tho vntloui revolutionary Juntnn
nro under surveillance by American Government agents, but notion Is hold up
prudlnK ratification of the Amoilcan-Molcnn mediation protocol.
CARRANZA'S REPLY TO PROTOCOL OPENED HERE MONDAY
Tho AmerlcniiMexlcan l'cico Commission will meet In tho llolleviio-Slmtforil
Monday morning to hoar tln rcptv of Central Cnrrnnsn to tho ptotocol, taken him
u few week i ngo by Alberto .1. l'unl, offering to lemnvo American troops from Mex
ican roll, providing for piotcctlon of Amirlcans In Mexico and patrolling of tho
border. Pinf. L H Kovvo. of tho rnlvcrslty of rcnnsylvnnla faculty and secretnry
nf the American commission. It nptlmlstlo about tho outcomo of tho session. Upon
tho reply of (ieneral Carranra may test the solution of the Mexican problem, bo
kiiM today.
SUMNER ABANDONED; CREW TAKEN TO NEW YORK
Ni:W YOltK, Dec. Hi Tho (lovernment ttnuspoit Sumner wan abandoned
shortly before noon today. Ciiptnln Wfbber anil the remnlnlm; members of tho
crow succeeded In gutting a boat away
terrible battle with tho high sens, which
They wero taken nboanl tho const guntd
l.lltto hopo of saving the, Sumner was
when nho vvtnt shore near Itarnegat. N.
pounded her almost continuously and sho
BULGARIAN SEAPORT SHELLED BY CZAR'S FLEET
I'lrniOlSHAD, Dec. 16. Successful bombardment of llaltclill; by Itusslan war
ships was nnnutiiiceil In today'a olllclnl statement. Dcsplto attacks by enemy nlioro
batteries, scaplnncs nnd submarines. Iho llusslnn nttncklng snundron was unharmed.
TWO NEUTRAL SHIPS SUNK; CREW OF ONE MISSING
LONDON, Dec. 10 Tlio Swedish Mteum-lil Vain nnd tho Norwegian ship Urnslt
lliavo been sunk. Tha alu wa.iilc,strojcd
nhVinHn"veiimt"ii CrRtTanTaT tnesotgo
SEEKS EXTENSION OF CONGRESS RAILROAD PROBE
WAH1I1NCJTON. Dee. IB Chiilrmiin
mercn ommlttce. today Introduced a icsolutlon to extend tho life of the Novvlauds
rnllioail luvestlgiitlnK committeo another car until Januiiry 1, 1IS the com
mittee having found It Impossible to make Its recommendation to Congress for rnll
road legislation, Including tho question of Government ownership, within tho time
Klvcn.
E. B. M'LEAN (JETS ENTIRE CONTROL OF ESTATE
WASHINGTON, Dee. 10. IMvvnril Ilenlo MrLciin will have the entlro Jnconto
from the great ostate left by his father, John It. McLean, and Is lecognlzod as
tltu Kilo head nf tho Washington Post and tho Cincinnati Knqiilrcr by nn agreement
reached out of court today.
FRENCH LINER DODGES U-BOAT ON RUN TO NEW YORK
Ni:W YOltK, Dec. 1(1. Dodglni: through tho Atlantic, far off her course, to
avoid a German raider that was supposed to bo In tho vicinity, tho French liner
Chicago arrived tndny from Uorilcnu four dna overdue. Tho L'30 passengers on
board did not brentho easily until the frlomlly shores of the United Htntcs v.voro
sighted. When wireless warnings of tho supposed presence of the Gorman raldor
wero received on December C a panic among the stcernito imssongurH was narrowly
averted.
LLOYD (JEORGE CONTINUES TO IMPROVE
LONDON, Dec. IB The condition of I'lemler Llojd Gcotge, HtrlcKon with t
chill last week, continues favorable. Ho wan permitted to confer with his chief of
staff hist night.
WILKES-BAHRE CAR STRIKE ENDS; LASTED M MONTHS
WILKKH-HATW13, I'u.. Doc. 16. The stilltitiK molormen unil conductors of tho
Wllkosllarre Traction Company early this morning decided to nccept tho proposi
tion for a settlement offered by tho company. Under tho agreement 130 men go
back nt once, sixty on extra time and no now men ure ti bo hired until tho old one
all havo been given employment. After Januiny t tho company will pnym flat alo
ot twenty-five cents for flrst-year men, twenly.slx anil n half cents for second year
men. twenty-eight cents for third-year men The slrllto began October 14. 1915.
AIR SQUADRON'S FLIGHT HERE PUT OFF BY STORM
The flight of fifteen army uetoplanes from Mlncol.i, Iiiik Island, to Hillnclel
pha, arranged for todny, has been positioned on account of tho Mtorm. If vcalhar
conditions aro fnvorable, tho flight will bo made tomorrow. Lougue Island will be
the landing place, but tho squadron will lly over the central section qf llm city.
DRYS LEAD IN FIGHT TO BAR BOOZE FROM CAPITAL
WASHINGTON, iflc. 19 The light In tho Henuto to inuka tho District of
Columbia dry drew near u close today with both sides claiming victory. However,
odds seemed to favor tho drys, and If lite bill doesn't get ditched In the Houso or
vetoed by President Wilson, the Prohibitionists appeared to havo votes enough
pledged to add tho capital to the nation's dry territory, The bill was laid beforo the
enato again today with all new amendments and substitutes printed, and Senator.
Bheppard, of Texas, Its author, was ready with a motion to force Its immediate:
consideration. "
BARS READING SEWAGE FROM SCHUYLKILL
HEADING, I'"-. l)ec 1 Salng that lie must bo careful of the health of tho
C09 090 residents of towns between here and Philadelphia who drink, Sehuylklll Itlver
water State Health Commissioner Bamusl O. Dixon submitted a communication
. rn, fiiuncll today refusing to permit of Heading' huuso sewae Must dis
charged Into the river without first being treated at the f!90,909 jIllnMlon plant
erected several years ago Doctor Dixon's decision was tho rault of u plan of tha
city to award a contrast to the Pennsylvania Sewerage and Garbage Company, of
Philadelphia, for handling all of the city's houso Mwage and garbage for a jierlod of
twenty years at a oost of about 2,09O.90A
IRISH FACTIONS NEAR AMICABLE AGREEMENT
LOKDON, Dec. 19. Tha lous-delayed settlement of tho Irish question U now
visible. An amicable union .of tit Utoterlte and tho southern Irishmen was nearer
today than it ever has been since th fulllo passage of the home rule bill In 1914.
Malar Redmond's appeal In Commons esterdy. In -which ho cited tho fat tlw.t
UUtermen and Nationalists were tb most amlaW ot companions on to western
front, was the first open Indication of Impending events. Bonar. Law acquiescence
ju this tUbal yesterday euows In what direction the wind U blowing.
NEWS
from tho nlovvly Hottllni: esscl after i.
illicitly have begun to wash her decks.
cutler Sonreu nnd brought to New Yorlt.
bold out, by olllcers Hlnco Monday night,
.1 , ilurliiR a ilenso fog, bid wuvca have
Is fast breaking under tho strnln.
by n. mlno. Lloyd'n ruportu, Uit- crp-oC
wild fourteen vveio missing.
1
AihimNou. of tho House Interstate Com
BERLIN READY
TO GIVE TERMS
IN CONFERENCE
Bernstorff Announces In
tention Following Visit
to Secretary Lansing
PEACE LEAGUE IN PLAN
Decision of U, S. Nob to Attempt
Mediation Now
Confirmed
WASHINGTON. Dec, 19. Germany
stands ready to give the Allies a full state
ment of terms nt any peace conference t
bo held.
This statement was made officially to
day by (Jerninn Ambassador Count von
Hcrnstorrr, following a short conference
with Becretnry Lnnsln. ,
Uernstorft tnld he does not know omctally
what these terms nre. v '
At tho same time Germany Is ready
tn discuss disarmament, crentlon of A
league to gunrnntee permanent peace and
kindred subjects thnt would arise frora
nny pence negotiations.
Tho envoy's vjslt was brief. He sought
nrtlclnl word confirming this country's In
tent Ion not to supplement Germany's pcac,
proposnls at this time.
While Uernstorft refused to talk about
this Government's plan, It Is well known
that Germnu authorities nro not discouraged fi
In any way by tho fact that America will
not now urgo nny suggestions.
On tho contrary, they believe President
Wilson "hns left the way open to aet later,"
nnd henhi nro nppnrently encouraged, by
this fact.
Uernstorft mndn It clear to Secretary
Lansing, It Is understood, that aermnny'
knew. In making her pence suggestions to
her enemies, thnt there was little likelihood
of them reaultlni; In linmodlnto peace In
l.urope. Her plan In reality Involved A
wide discussion of "what tho lighting Is
for," to bo participated n by representatives
of nil of the combatants. .Such a discus
slon. If untrnnimelcd nnd open, must
eventually show tho wny to peace In the
Germnu opinion.
Tho Ambnssador visited tha State De
partment for tho first tlmo since the German
proposnls wero ninds public.
LANSINO SILCNT
Tho Kccrotnry of State also refused to
discuss tho Interview. Ho said that the
situation was too delicate for niy Comment
'nVtnH"ftiif3."" However, ho communicated
the substance of his conversation with the
German Ambassador to President Wilson
at once. It Is understood thnt the Presi
dent was told that acrmuiiy was really
very hopeful that the powerful InDuenca of
tho United States and all of the other
neutrnl nations, ns well as that ot tin ,,
Vatican, will ba thrown on the side of
pence so soon ns the present negotiations
take deflnlto shape.
Mr l-ntulng denied emphatically that the
delay In sending forwnnl tho penco propo
sition tn tho Lnteiite Allies had hf?n du
to nny other enuso thnn physical There
was n translation nnd errors In transmls.
slon. This was discovered when the nates'
were being decoded to bo sent forward, and
nil were held up for necessary corrections.
The Secretnry also ngaln emphasised that
this Gov eminent Is simply a transmitting
ugont, and. therefore, would accompany
the peace suggestions with no comment
whatever.
CONHIDDHATION LHCHLY
A blunt refusal byMhe ICntcnte Allies
will not meet the Austro-German-Turklsh
offer to discuss peace,
Infarmatlon'to this effect from thorough
ly reliable sources abroad has reached of
flcl.ila hern. Despite the action of the Hue
"lull Dimin In voting unanimously against
nny effort to conclude a pence now. In Ad
ministration circles here today there was
optimistic belief that the Teutonic offer will
ba considered carefully by the Russian;
Foreign Olllce ns well as the other Govern
ments of the Lntento.
Indications front Pctrograd that Russia,
was set against a peace at this time are not
entirely discouraging to the representatives
of the Central PawersTsqMtastated her
today. When the peace or7eTO(made, It
was pointed out. It waa not expected that
It would bo accepted now, but that It would
be thoroughly considered and later, prob-
t'linUaurtl on l'sse Twe, Column fibj
CHRISTMAS SHOPPER
USES BAD $5 PIECES
Well-Dressed Woman Finds
Many Victims, and Coua Issuc-
Warninp; Against Her
The Killce ot the Sixty-fifth street Sill
Woodland avenue station ifcsued a warning
today Jo West Philadelphia shopkeepers tn
bewasC of a well-dressed young woman who
Is doing her Christmas shopping with coua
terfelt 5 gold pieces.
During the last week this woman, accord
ing to the police, has victimized from fowr
to six shopkeeper with her "phony coltvs'
Last night six shopkMpere on Woo4kta4
avenu between ;-"ortninth street and
Island road accepted counterfeits from her.
The coins are considerably undar 'weight,
but have a good, color and are considered
by the police to be excellent counterfeits.
The woman enters a store, s)eofcB a,
Christmas artlcl at some particularly Wbjp
counter, tenders a counterfeit la peyjbSMf
sad hurriedly letv es the store wboajTifc
receive ber change. She. la deacriMI m
about tblriy-flva year iBld. ha a &Mt
cast l her left ye ad, I tH .ad attttiA
leOff'
w
'I
1
