Sim.
THE- WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair and colder to-day; to-morrow fair
and slightly warmer; gales.
Highest temperature yesterday, 33 ; lowest, a.
Detailed weather, mail and marine reports on page 13.
IT SHINES FOPv ALL
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 107.
f-f
NEW YORK, SATURDAY, DECEMBER 16, 1916. Copyright, 1I1. b the Sun Printing ami PubUthing Attoclation.
ONE CENT
In Greater New York, t Klsewlifre
Jersey City end Newark. I 1MO CENTS
GERMAN SLAVE
RAIDS DECRIED
Xew York Citizens Protest
Against Deportation
of Belgians.
APPEAL SENT TO WILSON
Mnss Meeting AskH President
to Inform Teutons of U. S.
Sentiment.
Citizens of New York who believe
hit silence In the hour of Germany's
enslavement of tho Belgian people Ik
nothing' less than a crime net Inst night
In Carneglo Hall and with enthusiasm
tempered by solemnity called upon tho i
Government of tho United States to do-
maud of Germany that she put an end
to her policy of expatriation and slavery
for Belgians.
Tho cheering nnd general demonstra-
tlon which followed the mention of Theo-
.lore Itooscvclt's name, and which Inter-
rupted the reading of a letter from him,
. .,.n.i- .t. ii . .
was a striking feature of the big meet-
ing. james ju. iicck and t.miu iioot
were accorded enthusiastic receptions,
but their welcomo was mild In comparl-1
son to the cheering at the mere mention '
of the name "Hoosevelt."
Among tho 3,000 that manifested deep;
sympathy for Belgium and recorded
their abhorrence of Germany's acts were
hundreds that stand nt the forefront of
die professions, of business and of nrt.
In the list of vice-presidents that gave
support to the mass meeting of protest
wero the names of Charles K. lluxhes,
Lllhu Hoot, llobert Bacon, George W.
Wlckersham. Cornelius Vanderblltf
Henry V. Tuft. Wlllard D. Straight, A.
Barton Hepburn, llobert W. de forest,
John M. Bowers, Darwin I Kinsley,
Otto T. Uannard, James XI. Beck, Bishop
C H. Burch, Nicholas Murray Butler,
George Haven 1'utnjm, Alton B. Parker,
Joseph H. Choate, I'aul l. Cr.wath, K.
W. Whltrldge. Francis I.ynde Stetson,
Gen. Horace Porter, J. Plcrpont Morgan,
William Barclay Parsons, John M.
Parker, Adrian Iselln, Bishop favld H.
Greer. Henry C. Frlck, Crauncoy M.
Depew, IL P. Davison nnd Lyman. Ab
bot. Many of these sat upon the plat
form or In tho auditorium.
They heard addresses by the Hcv. Dr.
William' T. Manning, chairman of the
meeting: James M.. Beck, Alton B. Par
ker and EUhu Root and letters from Col.
Theodore Roosevelt and Joseph II.
Choate, all of which expressed detesta
tion of the cruelty practised by he Ger
man Government In- first stripping con
quered. Belgium of Ita property and then
driving the peoplo In masses to labor in
Germany.
Though Kllhu Hoot was tho last speak
er, his wan tho address which perhaps
best expressed the sentiment of the meet
ing. He said he was glad to Join the
voices of condemnation nnd protest
against the "outrage upon poor and
bleeding Belgium."
"I could not respect myself if I re
mained silent," he said. "I trust and
pray that my country will not remain
lllont. Kxplaln or disguise It as you will,
the peoplo of Belgium are being carried
Into slavery, a thing not done In modern
history."
Mr. Boot pointed out that the United
States had subscribed with other coun
tries, to the convention of 1899 guaran
teeing the Inviolability of Belgium.
"Our duty to our country, to ourselves
and to our children Is not to remain si
lent In tho face of n violation of It," he
said. "If a world of well meaning men
remain silent In the face of wrong what
difference Is there left to the wrongdoer
between right nnd wrong? Wo cannot
nmaln silent without abjuring our past,
by being false to our best traditions.
"Are we so sunk In luxury, comfort
and self-satisfaction that we have lo.it
the spirit of our freedom?"
Dr. Manning Eiplalm Meeting:.
After "The Star Spangled Banner"
was sung Dr. Manning opened the meet
ing with a brief explanation of Its pur
pose, saying that It had been called to
express openly nnd publicly tho Indigna
tion and abhorrence "which wo feel as
American citizens against tho deeds
committed In Belgium, France and
Toland, such as were supposed to have
roland, such as were supposeu to naie
become extinct among civilized peoples
and the like of which have not been
known In the world since tho beginning
of the Christian era,"
Similar meetings have been held In
Iloston and e'wwhere. Dr. Manning
sild, and he hoped there would bo mqre
In every city, largo or small, through
out the land,
"We have not come here to eak the
language of hate," said the rector of
?,ua8e...r ?ale' , " 8 i i, i OI
11 y' 2Ve ,"" Indlscrlm-
Trinity
ma I
kno
misled and cruelly betrayed by those
In whom they havo trusted. We believe
there are many Germans who condemn
thce Infamous deeds as strongly ns any
nf us do. W hopo yet to bee them
free themselves from the power of nuto
rratlc and unscrupulous leaders who have
shocked and amazed the world. Hut wo
are hero to say that as American citizens
and as true men and women we do
nouiice and abhor and utterly condemn
such nets as the Invasion of Belgium,
the sinking of the Lusltnnla and now this
climax of atrocity, the taking into slav
ery of defenceless and unoffending civil
ians, llroken German Promises.
Dr. Manning asserted that Gel many
hml broken a solemn, binding promise In
"NTninnlng Belgium and robbing and
enslaving the people nnd forcing them
to aid In tho destruction of their own
kindred.
"Shall wo ns a nation sit silent?" ho
AfKi-d. "Is thcro any one calling himself
an American who Is so unmoral, so un
christian, so shamefully neutral between
cfpod and evil that he Is not concerned
shout these things? The man who Is
nsiitral with regard to Belgium hs
suffered some weakening both of his
moral sense and of his manhood,"
Dr. Manning read the following letter
from Col. Theodore Itoosevelt to Fred
,.n,v v Whltrlilce. the downright
Manes of which were enthusiastically
iliwrerti '
1 arntly wish you nil success lu
1 ar meeting, and
1 all Americans wno aro
"iid of tho good name of their country
in 1 also have In them tho capacity for
ral Indignation on behalf of a foully
n.'ed people mirst Join In hearty
'k to you and your associates.
ieimanv'B campaign of methodically
i:".l atrocities against the iinhaptiv
Inated In trio
.itci "
10 people has culm
VCoHlloiteti on Second Pay,)
SUMNER BREAKING UP,
CREW CALLS FOR HELP
Her Wireless Fails Early To
Day Life Sont Sent, to
Save Men.
Tho army transport Sumner, bound
from CrlHtobal for thin port, which
grounded off Bnrnegnt Light In thick
weather nt midnight on .Sunday, was
apparently breaking up this morning In
a strong westerly gale that succeeded
a brisk northeasterly wind, piling the
breakers around her. Her wireless
failed her nt 12:30 o'clock this morning.
At 1 tlila morning tho coast guard
cutter Seneca sent a surf boat to take
the crew off.
She had made an effort to say that
she was launching her port lifeboat, but
got only so far ns the first two letters
of "port." Fifteen minutes before she
had sent out an appeal declaring that
sue wanted lire savers to come Imme
diately and take off all hands. She was
then settling fast and the wireless mes
sage said It was only a matter of min
utes when she would be Hooded.
Several vessels equipped with wireless
had heard her anneals nnd were stand
px by mitsldc tho breakers to glvo help.
Her skipper, Capt. Webber, and a small
part of her crew, mostly thoso In the
cnglno department, were still aboard.
rlio rest, sixty-one all told, had been
ra"t'Zr"'. " ,'u" rmy transport Kll
Thursday night, and were landed here
Kestordny morning. Tho Kllpatrlck had
1 1,re ordered North from Newport News
I 10 take tho place of the fiumncr on the
rmm betwcen thls nort and the Canal
one.
A. T. & T. CO. TO BE
$6,000,000 SANTA
Five Other Hip Institutions
lleln'Fill Clerks' Christ
mas Stockings.
Six large corporations announced
yesterday bonus payments to aid their
employees In meitlng Increased living
costs.
At a cost of J6, ooo.OOO the companies
constituting the Bell telephone system
will distribute sums to their employees
to aid them In meeting Increased living
costs, according to an announcement
made list night by Theodore N. Vail,
president of the American Telephone
and Telegraph Company."
Employees getting 13,000 a year or
less who havo, worked for the company
for more than one ear will receive three
weeks pay ; those who worked for the
company more tlun three months and
less than a year and who get 13,000 a
year or less will get two weeks pay,
Kmployees receiving from $3,000 to
13,000 will participate In the payment,
but not in the same proportion.
These navments tire not distributions
of nrollts. nor do they taku the place of
wage Increases for demonstrated merit 1
or the readjustments usu.ui maae ni ,
this time of year,
, according to Mr. X an.
They lire designed only to help em
ployees whose margin between Income
and necessities is narrow.
Senior employees of the Bankers Trut
Company have completed nn exhaustive
Investigation recently of increased living
costs, nnd In line with their recom
mendations tho company will pay a
bonus ranging from 15 to 17 per cent,
of the annual salaries. This Is In addi
tion to the regular bonus of 5 per cent,
of salaries ami the payment by the com
pany of $20,000 Into the employees' pen
sion fund.
The National Bank of Commerce an
nounces a disbursement of 10 per cent,
of annual salurles to emploees receiv
ing $2,000 or less and 12 per
cent, of salaries to those receiving be
tween 2,wio and 14,000.
Dlrectois of the Mechanics and Metals
National Bank voted a bonus ranging
from 5 to 15 per cent, of their annual
salaries to all employees.
A bonus of 10 ler cent, on nil salaries
of 1916 was announced by ofllcers of the
Citizens Central National Bank as a
Christmas gift to employees. In addi
tion each employee of the Institution will
receive a nibstantl.il Increase In salary.
The Westlnghouse Lamp Company an
nounced nn 1-3 per cent. Increase, ef
fective to-day. in the salaries of Its 2,000
, H m factorcl( ln thiH cl
i,O'0lnlleW N, j and Milwaukee, Wis,
I
cuy,
VILLA NOW ASKS OUR AID
Wants I'. 9. to Give Him Free
lliuid In Plichtlng Cnrraiiza.
El Paso Tex.. Dec. 15. A Mexican
courier reached the border to-day from
I Vltla'n camp at Creel, fifty miles west of
i nuc, n P 'cro J,,, ,ct of chl.
fraiu from the further destruction of
fnrnlirn life nnd ironertv In Mexico on
condition that the United tftate wouW
not Interfere nnywhero with hla cam
paign against tlio Carrania Government,
This was omciaiiy announcea mie to
day by a high representative of the Gov
ernment hero after Villa's proposal had
been forwarded to Washington by tele
graph. Villa also offered to protect all for
eigners and their property from tho raids
of Irresponsible bandits. This proposal
Includes all Americans In Mexico.
Villa had 8,000 well armed men and
3,000 illles In leserve, tho courier re
potted, nnd also a number of artillery
pieces with him and a supply of shells.
WASlllNOTON, Iec. 15, Suggestion of
an agieement between the American
Government nnd Villa Is regarded by
Administration oflltials us unworthy of
consideration.
SAFE CONDUCT FOR TARN0WSKI
Kntente Powers 1 lew o iieureaen-
tntlons of I'. .
Lonpon, Dec. 15. Tho Kntonto Pow
ers havo decided to grant safo conduct
to Count Tamowskl von Tariiow, re
cently appointed Austro-Ilungarlan Am
bassador to tho United Slates.
The Foreign Ulilco saici tno imienm
, had decicf i 10 gram inn sine mnuuci
I In rnnslih'i atlon of tho trprescntntlons
! mndc by tnu .im rir.ui um wini 'iH. mo
American niim.iii.-.mui, . .. .,.!.,
has been notified.
Three tthlpa Reported Saak.
Los'iKiM, 1& Lloyd's announces
that tho Norwegian steamer Kaupanger
lias been runt, and that the Portuguese
! Kirnnter lava, formerly the German
Hteainer Hnos, and the British steamer
,,J Olenoou tic reported sunk.
ROADS AND MEN
TO END DISPUTE
W. G. Lee, Brotherhood
Head, Says Negotiations
Aro in Progress. '
ASIDE Fit 031 8 HOUR LAW
All Other Future Controver
sies Arc to He Taken Out
of Politics.
Evansyimje, Ind, Dec. 15. W, 0.
Lee of Cleveland, president of tho
Brotherhood of Hallway Trainmen, pub
licly announced here to-day that nego
tiations arc under way between the lead
ers of tho brotherhoods and those higher
up In the operating departments of the
rail roads, looking to a settlement or
their entire controveisy out of court be
fore January 1, outside and Independent
of the Adamson law, which Is schdculed
to go Into effect on that date. Ho said
buth sides are carefully considering plans
for settling the entire question and for
clearing nnd cxuunclnir the records In
rthe case.
The principal controversy over the
eight hour law. Intended to establish n
precedent for all the railroads, is that of
the Federal Government ngnlnst the re
eclvers of tho Missouri, Oklahoma and
Gulf Itallroad. This case is now before
the United States Sunreme Court, nnd a
decision Is not expected before January 8.
Both Side, .ire Conciliatory.
"I know I am not U'traylng confi
dences," he Mild, "when I say some of
the very best brains high In tho cham
bers of the operating departments of the
railroads favor something satisfactory
to both sides nnd they have discussed It
to nvui much nun nicy nave uiscusscu 11
nNr
ii..-. ,-.. f. i -.a, 1. 1
there very soon. We hope to work It
out. We know that If we don't work It
out for ourselves, the employees and the
employers, somebody Is going to work It
out for us and it will not be acceptable
to either side.
Mr. Lee predicted that If the present
negotiations come to a successful end
the disputes between the railroads ami
employees will be taken out nf politics
by the establishment of some kind of a
Federal commission to take the place of
the present Board of Mediation and Con
ciliation. I'ai or Non-partisan Hoard.
He said that the members of this pro
posed board should be practical men
from both sides, appointed by tho Gov
ernment and answerable to tho President,
with full authority to hear and dispose
of all controversies that arise.
He said that .1 board composed of four
brotherhood men and four railroad rep
resentatives cut loose .from tho organisa
tions and from their railroad Interests
would form a commission to the fairness
of which he would be willing to sub
scribe.
"IVItli n nttiujln,. mi tltlw nnlnr " )m
.... . ..... ,ilim .1..., t,u Pr cont.
of n grievances that originate
would be settled satisfactorily'
CAPLAN, DYNAMITER, GUILTY.
t'ontlrtril nf Complicity III I.o
.VilKrlrx Times" niplnsliiu.
Los Angeled. Dec. 13. David Caplan
was found guilty of manslaughter to
day nt his second trial for complicity In
tho Lom Angeles Times explosion, Octn
ber 1, 1910, when twenty men were
killed. The penalty for manslaughter Is
from one to ten years.
Caplan was tho fourth man brought
to trial In the cai-c. Twenty Indictments
charging murder were returned against
eight persons, but the names uf only'luaiket on the previous day brought
the four urrested were made known. I record crowds to the financial district.
James II. McNamara was sentenced to Commission houses were crowded to the
life Imprisonment nnd John J. McNa- doors, and restaurants, cafes and all
mara rt-ceixed a sentence of llftecn ; places w here there happened to be stock
years. Mathew A. Schmidt was found 1 tickers were crowded until titter tho
guilty nnd sentenced to life Imprison
ment Inst December. His appeal is
pending.
HINTS AT EXTRA SESSION.
Xenlnnils for It If t'onuress Fall
10 Pn ItnllroiKl Hills,
Washington, Dec. 13. Senator New
lands, chairman nf the Scnato Com
mltteo on Interstnto Commerce, to-day
hinted at an extra session of Congress
unless this session passes two Important
b lis one for the Government control of
tnllway, telegraph and telephone lines
for military purposes and the otner for
Investigation of railroad wage disputes
by the Board of Mediation and Concilia
tion and the enforced suspension of
strike orders and lockouts pending art
investigation of the merits.
"I think there ought to be Immediate
action upon these bills," said Senator
Newlands, "ami that Congress should
not permit the contlnunnce of present
conditions of the law under which thero
can be tit any time an nbsoluto paraly
sis of the transportation systems
throughout tho country. The subject, In
my opinion, Is so Important as to war
rant nn extra session If the present
Congress docs not have time to act."
BRYAN APPEALS TO ENGLAND.
Ask British Premier to Obtain
Consent to Nranlln tlons.
. Jacksonville, 1- la.. Dec, lu. llllnni I iHtocksi which had suffered heavy losses
J. Bryan, here to-dav on his way to',,, , m,,rnlng enjoyed substantial ral
Miami, Fla stated that he had sentijWi j a f,.w cases tho rallies brought
this message to the British Premier: ,,,rcfn x) ii,p previous day's closing.
As a friend of the nations at war, ns
a Christian nnd a lover of humanity, I
respectfully but most cani'stly appeal
to you to use your great Influence to
secure your Government's consent to
negotiations.
' "There Is no dliputo that must neces
sarily be settled by force. All Interna
tional illmites nre cnnabln of aillunt-
i met x,y peaceful menns. F.vcry guar
nnteo that ran possibly bo secured by
wnr can bo stated as a condition prece
dent to pence. Do not, I pray you, by
refusing an exrhango of views assumo
responsibility for a continuation of tho memorial relating to the bill for the re
unepoakable horrors of this unparalleled qutsltlsnltig of ships. In tho memorial
conflict. Your decision may nenn llfo he states that 200,000 tons capacity for
or death to millions." food and fodder Is needed monthly, and
PARIS CUTS MIDNIGHT MASSES.
Chrlatmsm Services to "Re Held In
Ilntlmr In Mare l.liilit.
Paris, Dec, 15. There will be no mid
iilaht masses In Paris on Christmas eve.
Cardinal Amette, Archblsiiop of Paris,
lias so decided.
TI111 holiday sri'vicei will lake place
wholly In daylight In order to econo
mize in lighting and fuel,
PEACE OFFER MADE BY
VICTORS, SAYS KAISER
Emperor Tells Troops in Al
sace decision Now Nests
With tho Entente
London, Dec. IS. "Confident that we
are completely the victors, t inado a
proposal to tho enemy yesterday to dis
cuss tho questions of further war or
peace," said the Kaiser in addressing
the troops In Alsaco recently, according
to a despatch published in the Cologne
Gazette, says a Bcuter's despatch from
Amsterdam.
"What will come of It 'I do not yet
know," the Emperor Is reported to have
continued. "It Is n' matter for tho
enemy now to decide If tho fighting Is
still to go on. If the enemy still thinks
he has not had enough then-J know you
will" hero the Kmpcror, says the
correspondent, made a "warlike gesture"
which "produced a llcrco smllo on the
faces of all his men.
The newspaper despatch describes
how the troops were drawn up In parade
order, a number of airplanes being In
readiness to ward off n possible air at
tack. The Emperor was accompanied 1y
the Crown Prince nnd Gen. von Guen
ilell, the commander of the army group.
After Inspecting the troops the Emperor
made n speech thanking them for pro
tecting that region.
Til tttpnrifnaf ni.au nf till. IriHIOS 111 tllQ
west, lie said, had made It possible to
deal destructlie blows In tho east, no
spoke In "words most wrathful In con
tempt of that people In the east which
had thought to stick a dngger In the
back of our ally." "The Judgment of God
had fnllen on them." tho Emperor de
clared, in the campaign which had been
conducted according to the brilliant
plans of Field Marshal von Hlndenburg.
"Tho old god of battles directed. We
were his Instruments and were proud
of It," the Emperor added.
Afterward the Emperor talked to the
otllcers for n half hour on tho Rumanian
campaign, which he Is said to have de
scribed as "The Irony of fate." which
had permitted the corn purchased by
the English to fall Into German hands.
The English," tho correspondent
. .. un..i., ...,ui.i f.,,.
a war of staratlon.
STOCKS STEADIER
AFTER BIG DECLINE
Turnover of 2,r0!),000 Shores
Reported in Another Ex
citing: Day.
Feverish activity with violent breaks
In -prices marked trading In the stock
market again jestcrday, but In the clos
ing hour a rallying movement lifted
stocks In many cases from the low of
the day to or nearly to the closing level
of the preiious day Business again
was In rentai'tabl lolutne, more than
2,409,000 shares changing hands. Many
thousands of shares more changed hands
which Stock I'xchatiEi' reporters were
unable to tecoitl In the confusion.
In the morning the olutne of buslncw
was so great th.it bond sales were not
reported until 12:20. The latest time
up to yesterday at which bonds had be-
gun to be quoted was 11:1 1, ln the tlrst
hour almost 700,000 shaies were turned
over, the hejiiest hour In many years;
up to noon more than 1,300,000 shares
had changed hand", and by 2 o'clock
the turnover had reached almost 2,000,
000 shares.
u Mans if Panic.
The retreat of the market was orderly
ln the morning, with no signs of panic,
but the stories nf the big break In the
market had closed.
Tho most ilolent break began about
a half hour after the opening and lasted
practically until noon. United States
Steel, which closed at 113S on the
previous day, sold down to 109 'J: In
ternational Mercantile Marino common
went from 36 a4 to 29 i, tho preferred
from I0DS4 to 97 4 : Ilepublie Iron and
Steel lost 4 !3 points, Anaconda Copper
2, Baldwin Locomotive 4'i, Industrial
Alcohol Jl'j. Central Leather 5!a and
Lackawanna Steel 8.
Compared with tho closing prices last
Monday, before the peace propositi was
.efore the peace proposal "as
iterdny mornings low nuota-1
i-sented breaks of It points In i
.na Ulnnl i It, lm.Hian llnntl
made, yes
tlons repre
Flitted States Steel, 9 lu American Beet
Sugar, 14 In Ameilcau Locomotive, 10
In Anaconda, 14 In Baldwin, 15 In Ma
rino common and is lu the preferred,
and 32 ln Industrial Alcohol,
llellileliem Steel nt
Bethlehem Steel furnished the wildest
fluctuations In the market, selling down
to 523, a break of 57a from Thursday's
closing and 176 points from the high
since the war. On tho rallying move
ment It sold back to 550, cloning 22 Vi
points off for th day. A spectacular
movement was also provided by Gulf
States Steel, which, selling ex dividend,
made nn Initial advance of 9 points to
130 und then dropped back to 129, On
tho upward movement In tho last hour it
sold back to 140, nn advance of 13 points
for the dav.
j In the closing hours some support was
1 lnl In Mia mnrkt. nnd munv nf thn
1 1m, ,. 1110h, ,.,HM tllcre werft nel i0fjes
of from 1 to 5 points.
FOOD CRISIS ALARMS DUTCH.
Holland Mar Mobilise Kntlre Fleet
to Olitnlu Supplies.
The IUiU'e, Dec. 15, Mobilization by
Holland of her entire mercantile fleet
for brlngliw foodstuffs from overseas Is
foreshadowed by F, K. Posthuma, ttie
Minister of Commerce, In nn explanatory
owlr.K to the delays of voyages and
other causes, this Involves tho regular
employment of 470,000 toiw of shipping.
TI10 Interests of the regular flansenger
lines, ho adds, will be consulted n far
us possible, but the present seal city of
carso spaco is such that the necessity for
requisitioning the entire tnunugn of ship
ping companies trading with North
America and South Africa must be
teckoned Willi, while clrculiifctaiito. ina
arise necesnitntlni; the commandeering of
Holland's entire mercantile tonnage.
ENGLISH
BELIEVE GERMANY
FRENCH WIN 2
Drive Back Germans Over
Front of Seven Miles,
Capturing 7,500.
"COMPLETE VICTORY,' '
SAYS THE WAR OFFICE
Crown Prince Suffers Big
gest Defeat of His En
tire Campaign.
XIVELLE'S MEX TAKE
FORTIFIED WORKS
Villages of Vacherauville
and Lonvemont Wrested
From Invaders.
PAms, Dec. 15. France has won an
other great victory nt Verdun. An at
tack of French Infantry that liegnn
this morning has broken tho German'
front for nearly seven miles to,a depth
of two miles. The French have taken
more than 7,500 prisoners nnd many
cannon.
Gen. Nlvellc. striking a few days
after Germany's peace offer and his
own elevation to supreme command
over the French armies in France, has
dealt the Crown Prince the hardest
blow of tho Verdun campaign. Mlorc
ground lias been gained und more
prisoners taken than In Gen, Nlvelle's
attack of October i'4, which restored
the Verdun line of forts.
Strong; Positions Won.
French troops occupy firmly the vil
lages of Vacherauillle and Louvcmont,
the farms of Chambrettes and the forti
fied works of Ilardaumont and Hczon
aiix. Ilesldea this, the French took
line after line of trenches.
The whole spirit of the attack, and Its
effect upon the French nation Is summed
up by the French official statement to
night: "Our sucees Is complete, Tho troops
have given vent to great enthusiasm."
The statement ends with the most
significant sentence; "Our losses were
slight."
The tremendous moral effect of such a
victory, aside from its military Itnpor-
tance, can hardly bo overestimated. It
'Will go a long way toward offsetting
German elation at the llumanlan sue-
cesses.
The nfllclal statement. In which every
word Is weighed by the War Olllce. says:
"The enemv's front broke down every
where." Again the Crown Prince seems
to bale been caught unawares by the
liinrg.j nf the pollus
The French attack bad been prepared
for several days by a tel rifle II ro by thn
French artllleiy, In hirh guns of all
calibres, f-oni the 75s to the new 10
inch weapons, threw shells upon the
battered trendies and IIUiges whose
names are household words.
At 10 o'clock this morning the first
French wae of Infantry swept over tlte
parapets, attacking along a front nf
nearly seven miles north of Douaumont.
German lesManco wns weak all along
the line, as Is clearly shown by the large
number of prisoners.
Vnoberiinvllle Is Taken,
The village of Vacherauville, on the
bank of the Mouse, four miles north of
the city of Veidun, foil to the Impetuous
charge of Nlwile's troops. Forces a lit
tle to the right stormed the village nf
Louvcmont, two miles northeast or in that they tall to understand the true torday voiced a strong appeal for Inter
VHcherauvlllo and the same distance ! spirit which animates Itus!a. fel.np,, i,tWo..ii the Kuronean bel'lcer-
northwest of Douaumont. Bczonvaux,
nearly four miles east of Louvemont.waH
also taken. Thus 11 wedge was pushed
out straight northwest of tho ground
, 0c,ni,er.
(lf xhe positions nnd In tl
, ,teni.1R trenches the French four
V .. .. . -,... . .
10
11(1
cannon nf nil kinds, somo abandoned
nnd somo smashed by tho preliminary
French bombardment. How deeply tho
attack penetrated Is shown by the an
nouncement tnni many or ino cannon
were heavy pieces.
According to tho German statement,
the French attacked also wet of tho
Mouse, trying to retake trenches on 1 1111
304. but were thrown back. Hie t.er-
man Statement to-night, however, ad-
.,,la tin, din li'rrnph worn rnlnlni- whf.n
the Crown Prince reported.
The French statement Issued tn-nlght
nnnnunolnir the success of the Verdun
attack was preceded by nn
ifternoon
statement that said simply
"nothing
of Importance occurred during the
..,!. ,, A. .I.n ..,.-.,,.,, ( ,.. Iaudn.1
night." At tho moment It was Issued
tho French Infantry wero cutting their
way through the German lines. The
night stntement follows:
After several das of nitlllery
preparation we attacked tho enemy to
the north of Douaumont, between the
Mouse nnd tho Woevro, on it front of
nioro than ten kilometers. Tho attack
started ut 10 o'clock,
Tho enemy's front broke down
everywhere to a depth of about threo
kilometers,
Besides numerous trenches wo carl,
turod the .villages of Viuiirnimillo
and Louvcmont, the farms of Chum
lirettes and the fortified works of
Ilardaumont and Bezonvaux.
tint) nfllrrm Captured.
We have taken a great many prls
oners, tho exact number of whom has
not yet been determined. Seven thou
sand flvo hundred of them, Including
200 olllcers, already havo been passed
through our commandant's posts.
Wo havo taken or dolroed numer
ous pieces nf heavy and Hold artllleui
and also a considerable quantity AY
material.
Notwithstanding unfavorable weather
conditions our avintois look a brilliant
part in the .fighting. Our success Is
complete. The troops havo given vent
to great enlliii"las!ii, Our losses aro
slight.
Tho late German stntement seld :
"On the cast hank of the Meiwn since
Conffiitifd on Secantl rage.
I
WANT KAISER'S TERMS;
Duma Refuses Peace Negotiations
J ONDON, Dec. 16. A despatch to Reutcr's Telegram Company from
Petrograd says the Duma has unanimously passed the following
resolution: . ...... -
"The Duma, having heard the statement by the Minister of For
eign Affairs, unanimously fnvors a categorical refusal by the allied
Governments to enter, under present conditions, into any peace nego
tiations whatever. , ,
"It considers that the German proposals arc nothing more than
fresh proof of the weakness of the enemy and a hypocritical act from
which the enemy expects no renl success, but by which it seeks to throw
upon others the responsibility for the war and for what happened dur
ing it, und to exculpate itself before public opinion in Germany.
"The Duma considers that a premature peace would not only be
a brief period of calm, but would involve tho danger of another bloody
war and a renewal of the deplorable sacrifices by tho people. It con
siders that a lasting peace will be possiblo only after a decisive victory
over the military power of the enemy and after definite renunciation
by Germany of the aspirations which render her responsible for the
world wur and for the horrors by which it has been accompanied."
BRITISH NAME iWILSON WON'T
3 PEACE TERMS; INVOKE PEACE
Indemnity, Guarantees for the
Future niul Reparation,
Snvs Henderson.
Lonpox, Dec. 15. In discussing the
German proposals at a dinner of the
Steel Smelters Association to-night. Ar
thur Henderson, member of the Hrltlsh
Wir Council without portfolio, said that
the Government knew nothing concern
ing the text of tin- proposals and that
Germany's motives mut remain a mat
ter of speculation for the moment.
"From the past and recent events,
said Mr. Henderson, "we may antlclpilcl
without overassumptlon that any pro- j
posals Germany may put forward will
no' etr on the tide or magnanimity.
They must be oxamlyed with tho great
est "possible cate.
"We of all jienple must not forget that
Germany was prepared for peace with
this country ns late as August. 1914, but
on what conditions that we were pre
pared to betray France and acquiesce
ln the violation nf tho neutrality of Bel
gium, which Germany, like ourselves.
had on oath sworn to maintain.
"The pople of this country are pre- Atmosphere la Cleared.
pared to accept peace to-day as In Au-1
giit. 1911, provided that peaco Is both t The disclosure of tho President's attl
Just and permanent. Indemnity for the l"do cleared the ntmosphere after four
past Is not enough unless we hne guar- '''' of uncertainty In diplomatic circles,
autoes for the future, and guarantees l.ntente diplomats were disposed to ac
for the future are not enough without cept the news with keen satisfaction. It
reparation for all Belgium, France, ( Is not Improbable that the German Oov
Scrlil.i and Poland halo hilffered eminent will b disappointed, but Ger-
"The peace Into which we entfr must man diplomats are still hopeful that tho
contain guarantees for Its own duration, Piesldent will throw his Inllueiice ill tho
Germany may have such a peacn If she
furnishes us with proofs of her good In
tention, But if her present overtures
are only pretence, and if it Is shown sho
Is merelv arranging an armistice to ob
tain n breathing space that will furnish
her the opportunity to lay fresh plans
of aggression, then I say. whatever tuny
be the temptation to thn peoplo of these
Islands, wo inut sot our faces like the
steel ou work upon against her pro
posals." RUSSIA'S FLAT REFUSAL.
Voiced In the II 11 mil by Her For
rlun .Minister.
Lonpon, Doc. l.-., Iii an address to
the Duma to-day M. Pokmvsky. Mlnlh-1
tor of Foreign Affairs, shaking with the
lull authority of the Czar, had this to
say of the Gorman peace proposals:
"To attempt at tho last moment to
proilU by tliolr Hooting territorial con
quest befoto thoir domestic wejitness t ,nPmUors and officials on this point,
was levelled, that was tho real moan- coup,.(I tie lengthy Cabinet meet
ing of tho German proposal. In the UnKi iP(I tI) t, Met t(mt t)lcro Was some
lent of falluie they will exploit at .nrjeiencn of opinion unions thn Prcsl
liomn tho refusal of the Allies to accept ,i0nt's advisors on this point,
peace in order to lohabllitatn tliu tot-, Tho fact ,ut senator Stone, chap
tering morale of their populations. mau t senate Foreign Ilelatlons
"But thorn is another senseless motive ! i-,,im i
.No ltusslan heart will yield, all Itussi.i
will tally more closely around Its august
sovereign, who deoared at the very b-
ginning or tno wnr mat ne wouiu nni
make peace until the last enemy soldiers
had loft our country, nnd for the gen -
oral oolbibnr.i'tlDii which constitutes tho
.MliJ SUM' lo.-tiii 111 mii.iiiK ill nn- 1-1 11 . j
wo nil havo at heart; namely, the crush
ing of the enemy
"The Itut.sl.in Government repudiates '
with Indignation tho more Idea of sus- 1
ponding tho struggle, thtreby permitting
Germany to take advantage of the list
ohancn she will havo of suMccttnir I!u- i
r0)(, to ,r i,egomony. The Innumerable ,
morHlces already mado would be ln
, Vnln if prennturo peaco were concluded
. ...i.i. .1. ...... f..- 1...... 1......
bm not broken ,,nd ail enemy ' J'Uirdoc, concern
1 ,vh u seoklinr a hreathlmr 'snare i,vi"lllc diplomatically docs not concern
1,1.,.. .i..ii.i e ..
peace.
III this Inflexible decision HusMi Is
ln eumpleto agreement with all her vab
1 . .... .... ... .... . '
Hint aino", n o am an equally con
vinced of the vital necessity of carrying .
on the war to a iletorlous end."
BRITISH ADVANCE ON'tIORIS.
Hon!
Turks In .N'civ On'elislir In
Kiit-i'l-. iiuirn Ileglon,
Lonpon, Deo. 15.- British troop have
taken the offensiie in the region of Kut-
el-Amara, in Mesopotamia, anil have oc
cupied Tuikish positions on the Ilai
Hlvor, south of Kut-ol-Aniara. An of
ficial statement Issued to-night s.i:
our forces on tho Tigris assumed
tho offensive Wednesday and Thurs
day. Tho Turkish positions about
Sanuayyat, on tho left bank, wero
fcubjectod to an effective bombardment.
During Wednesday night British
forces secured tlm left bank of the Hal
Itlvcr between Atab and llasruglyeli,
crossed to tho right bank and secured
the ground to a depth of from ono to
one nnd half miles, thn cavalry sub.
sequonlly clearing tho Turkish troops
from their trenches on thn right hank
about Kal.i Haji Fahan. The positions
occupied am being consolidated by our
Infantry, our casualties worn slight.
Knla llajl Fahan Is on the right
bank of the Hal Itlvcr, two and one
half miles ft nut Kut-ol-Aniara, Atab
Is on the left bank, live nisi ono-hulf
miles from Kut-il-Ainarn,
m'i:m tiik iioiikwh
,o iulpluir Spring, Vvnt VlriiaU,
t wtii
NEAR COLLAPSE;
MILES AT VERDUN
President, After Long Cabinet
Meeting, Decides to Keep
"Hands Off.,?
Wasuinoton, Dec. 15, President Wil
son, for the present at least, will not be
Identified with the peace proposals of the
Central Powers. He will communicate
the Identical notes to the Fntcnte Allies
without comment or suggestion of any
kind. This was ofllclnlly made known
to-night.
Tho President takes tho view that he
has been asked simply to act as emissary
for tlcrmany and her allies and that any
action on his part other than despatching
the proposal to their destination la un
called for.
Alter onn of the longest Cabinet ses
sions of the year It was stated authori
tatively that tho Idea of submitting nn
addendum had not even been considered
by the President. Whatever future steps
he may take In the Interest of peaco re
main undecided For tho present th
United States Government Is to play th
tole of spectator.
balance nt .1 later time,
Count von lUrnstorft Is said to lake
the view that the President was not
asked to do more than transmit the notes
and to believe he may still be counted on
to support the Gorman effort to end the
war wheneier he may adjudge tho time
opportune.
All of the proposals of the Central
Poweta have now been received In Wash
ington, the Turkish noto coming In late
lu the afternoon. Secretary Lansing, nf
tor tho Cabinet meeting, explained that
tho delay In sending the notes forward
was duo solely to physical reasons.
Tho State Department desired to com
pare each text and ascertain if It had
boon ennectly transmitted. Tho State
, nop.irtment has been wrestling with
mnor details, and this. Mr. Lansing said,
mado ilelay Inevitable, But Secretary
Lansing declined to comment on whether
thn President hail decided to send the
notes with no comment of his own.
Tlte strict secrecy maintained by Cabl
,., i,y t),o Fulled States also lent color
t0 ,i,t. suggestion that Homo pressure
wa i,s exerted at the White Houso
, ,,1Cp president Wilson to usn this
. opportunity for an appeal for peace,
1 ,
J j-, s. Policy of 'llnudi Off,
But If any such suggestions wero made
they found tho President determined at
this time to follow tho policy of "hands
off," so far ns tho present proposals of
tlio Central Powers aro concerned.
Trero uto several reasons advanced to
explain why the President nt' this tlmn
doos not consider tho moment opportune
for any suggestion from tho Flitted J
Stales. Ill tho tlrst l.lace. be roeards thJ
..rnnncnl. n,n,l illo.rlW W tl. n.n.,,,1
' iiuih
I "e l-nnoii btaics,
Tho interest which this Government
j has and which other neutral Govern
ments have in the establishment of
peaco In Kurnjio Is regarded us so self
evident thnt expressions to tills effect
would be superfluous. Tho President Is
I understood to feel that the proposals
I will havo morn weight with tho Untcnte
coming direct from the enemy than they
would hain with thn unsolicited support
of neutral Governments.
But the Kntonto diplomats nttach a
deeper significance to thn position of
aloofness which the t nlted States Gov
, eminent has taken toward tho proposals
for peace. J hey bellove that President
Wilson refrains from comment on tho
notes for the reason thnt ho believes
penco Impossible at tho present time.
Teuton Hoped for Indorsement,
They anticipate no move toward pome
. either now or in the near future by
1 President Wilson. And they intimate
tti tit tlio President views the German
I move for peaco much in tho same light
I as their respective Governments view It
ns a diplomatic play which must be
i proved sincere before It is given serious
consideration.
Tlio Fntento Governments, It Is ex
plained, refuse to bo prematurel tip
..HAauA.l n ,1.1 I I ....., .!.! .1..,. .1...
i, .-s.-i-u, tini, i, n , ivi irn nun inc.
will cite tli" nttlliiile nf th' I'nltod St.l.
as proof that the pi
io prnpivaW haie no'
tainpcited i pin mi in iho lending
lliil . iilllltl'e
Nn " i r t ha- '. . .1 . ' t'-,
which .iilleiai .if i ,i' I
' entei i.i noil that nine ui, on
be f ii ' . t .' I' i i V, .'
COIIfflllKl Oil .Ml Ollll I'il'JC,
Mil, I
I!
Te.nton Empire Believed to
Be Trying to Kseape
Disaster.
ECONOMIC SITUATION
DECLARED SERIOUS
British Newspapers Urge
That Peace Proposal
Be Sifted.
WOULD HAVE ALLIES
REJECT NO CHANCE
Warning Is Issued Ajrainjjt'
the Sowing of Dis
sension. Special Cable Hetpoti'l. in Tut. Srv
London, Dec. 15. While still aiult
iiiK tho actual German pence note the
Impression Is gaining itrotiml hcia
among thoso well informed that Ger
many Is really dcslrotm of prnco Ill
order to save herself.
Kxperts declam that nccordlus to
their best Information Gti many'sj
economic situation Is really very seri
ous. They point out that peace over
tures from Berlin were !uiMsll!r a '
few montlm ago nfter the Verdun
failure, but urc made possible now by
Germany's success In Itiimanla,
The feeling Is urdouhtcdly glowing
here that tho Entente Allies should n"t
turn down tho fcuggestiou for opening
negotiations without finding out tho
exact German terms of pence. Newt
papers throughout the countty are
printing many letters from their lead
ers urging consideration uf the offer.
Maaeheater'n Appeal.
The Manchester Oiumffiiii prints the
following, signed by 'a group of leading
cttiiens and educators of that city:
"We, the undersigned, desire to ex
press our sense of tlm dutj laid upon
all mn at this time of giving careful
consideration to the pt.tce piopojal of
the central rollers.
"We would luge the Goicinmcnt to
go as far In nitoliug sinii i-roovl to
renoer them ellcotlie for peace as the
national honor and luteiosls and claims
of the wnallt r nations who have suffered
and tho attainment of securities for the
futuro will permit."
The editor of the Xnecfntor will say to
morrow ln that wiekly:
"Wo do not know how tlio German
words will strike our pacifist reader;.
On us theyprnduie a sense of physical
nausea. Tamerlane, with words of
frlghtfulness on his lips to mat h his
deeds, Is a tln-r, but in a senc a re
spectable nntu ii What shall be said of
men who with hands dripping Innocent
blood usurp the forms and phtnses of
religion without their substance, and In
dulge in license without the temrer of
true humanity?
"Though the British Instinct Is lo trsst
these unreal, theatrical overtures with
contempt and make 'in ieply, we hope
the Government will not ni.ilnta'n com
plete silence, but will toll the Germans
that If they will coti-eut to the prlii'lpla
of reparation Tor their evil deeds we will
talk to them, but on no other cnnslde-n-tlon.
That will help to make the world
at large reallzu our Incurable detent) -nation.
Pledged to Iteiuiratloii.
"Lvery one of tho .Mhos n already at
heart pledged bejond nl, possibility nf
turning back to thn exa. tlon of tep.T,
tlon, but as yet the world does not te
ognlzo this. German, 'k plea fop pcae
negotiations gives us Just liie opportunity
we need of stating this pli.nly to all na
tlons of tho earth. But thougi we an
negotiate only on the lusis of repamt'on,
which thn Germans will of mm so leje-t.
uermany s suggestion of terms i ,i stf C
event, one of the greatest lu t le i sioi .v
of tho world. It marks tho lu ginning of.
the end,
...... VV ' ' "'' ' , l7 5 .
.uA ... iu- iimn 7!'. ! i'"1"1"' l
t,,ry. r0'JI,y tllotlKllt tlu y . ould win. lit.
"If the German Govciiiniet-t io.iU h"-
I iS """ P1 '"''! ".IVe OOm
rintn Ineni. 1! i i.i'.nu.i tlm, t...,,. ...
iieart tnat tney eaiinot win. tliat tlm
Gorman people mo nlieadv sti-.nne'l bo
jotid the human ondur.iiue. that the,"
have spoken the magic word that luarlii
the doom of Germain .
"Within a few da we shall Ilea"
from Berlin that all thought of negotia
tions is mer because of the folly of thn
Allies In not reahriiiu thai tliej ar
beaten. Tills will be . niipled with
throats nf the direst fi . Sinfulness xml
assertions that ilerin.im w.d neve
again propose terms. All .ho .inie n)i
will propose them, dough ici-y illtteivpt
teims next spi'ug, either befoie or ilui
Ing our new combined push on th west
and east."
PnrlflM l'aper' tlrn
The .NVic i'lof cm, mil, whn'h Kdic.-a.'.v
has paciilst leaiilnus, dx-cusses Oer
niauy'd pence proposal- "unlikely la
orove anything but au attempt t , pii .
on our feelings f u weariness ,i ,o i ,
i cozen nut of us a bid non,,- hum in p' s
I of the good peuoK wi inluiit dicta' .,
nine or iweho mouth hit r "
I' "N'n statesman." continuis thn tn'i..
I paper, "will in smii a puliation olns tho
door to peace until I.o Is satlstli'i ft
tho parade of the onenij n terms ilnfn
not cciuiMl the ,'un.q: .nt. ,,f uhtalnhu
a peace of his own The slim toning ,'
the war Is siipremc desirable, unci we
should naturally be glad to shorten I
i iii,,,., i.. i , I ,ij ,
" "'. ri -.,
H'" temis in un cnuiiip aro mo rigiu
ours
"However, no statesman who knows
- ,i -i.... on our side will keep thn
. a f dour standing Idly ajar. Gei
i v i.nii.p is pot motived chiefly by
i, . r ..or taking her terms. Her
o,.e to ' that wn may go on die.
yc'iiu them and discussing a lubitttuw
