.; T' 4T anmi
f-V "','!
--; A r ,-V c'F
V-- V
ap
r
V
V . , "
"4-:"-3:?s
. ' -;;-f.'
hr-A"l -"VI" ."'" -Ss" "v '.j:isrT i-- . '-": - ; v" '- Jff" .
. - !
HEW TO THE LINE; LET THE CHIPS FALL WHERE THEY MAY
'.-w -
- t . & - .
Vol. XXII.
CHICAGO, DECEMBER 16, 1916
N. 13
Charles C. Healey Will on January 1st Step Down and Out as
Chief of Police of Chicago; Hon. Maclay Hoyne Strongly
Intimates That, In Case He Does So, the Indictments
Hanging Over His Head Will Be Knocked Into a Cocked
Hat
jp MAY COST ANT NEWSPAPER MAN'S UBERTY OB FREEDOM BY
GENTLY REMINDING THE HON. STATE'S ATTORNEY OF COOK
COUNTY "THAT IF HE REALLY HAS THE GOODS ON CHIEF
HEALEY THAT HE SHOULD COME 16 A SHOWDOWN IN THE
COURTS WITH THEM THAT IF HE NEVER HAD SUFFICIENT EVI
DENCE TO CONVICT HTM"
OF THE CRIMES WHICH HE IS CHARGED WITH COMMITTING HE
SHOULD NOT HAVE PERMITTED A SHORT-SIGHTED AND SPINE
LESS GRAND JURY TO INDICT HIM THAT IF CHIEF HEALEY IS
EEALLY A CRIMINAL AT HEART THE PEOPLE OF CHICAGO WANT
TO KNOW IT.
THAT IT IS A VERY DANGEROUS STATE OF AFFAIRS WHEN THE
STATE'S ATTORNEY CAN SECURE THE INDICTMENTS OF PUBLIC
OFFICIALS ON TRUMPED UP CHARGES AND THEN TURN AROUND
AND INFORM THEM THAT HE WILL NOT PROSECUTE THEM IF
THEY WILL RELINQUISH THE DUTIES OF 'JL'HKIK OFFICE.
At last Mayor William. Hale Thomp
son and Charles C. Healey, Chief of Po
lice have come to the parting of the
ray, for on Jan. 1, 1917, Chief Healey
mil step down and out, and make room
for someone else to share his same fate
in case they fail to dance to the music
of all. the large and small tin-horn dis
honest politicians Tvho are always in
evidence in the City Hall.
The passing of Chief Healey will
continue to be the talk of the town for
sometime, for at the time that he as
sumed the duties of his office, Mayor
Thompson very loudly maintained that
he ivould pro e himself to be the best
and the most progressive Chief of Po
lice that Chicago has ever had, but it
seems that that has turned out to be
nothing more than a pipe dream on the
part of Mayor Thompson. At that time
not being a mindreader, he was 'unable
to penetrate far into the future and
prognosticate as to what would be the
final result in relation to the bitter
ap between Chief Healey and the
Hon. Maclay Hoyne.
Those who claim to know what they
re talking about assert that now that
Chief Healey lias been humiliated and
that the state 's attorney has been able
t place his Democratic feet on the
bk of bis Republican neck, that he
"more than willing to knock the in
C'ctments banging over his head into a
eKfeed hat.
In these piping times ""of war and
Pte it may cost any newspaper ed
ltor or writer his liberty or freedom
breaking the news very mildly up-
0a the Hon. stato's attorney of Cook
c"inty that within the past five or six
ting, he had moral right to permit a
shortsighted and spineless grand jury
to indict him and that if Chief Healey
is really a voriminal or -a "bad man, in
general the pe'opleMJf Chicago want to
know if and in that case he should not
be permitted to serve them in any ca
pacity in the police department.
It may be that we are falsely appre
hensive as to the growing power of the
Hon. State's Attorney as to his right
to regulate the citizenship of Chicago,
but according to our way of thinking,
it is a dangerous thing for the people
of this county and city to indict its
leading officials and holding the indict
ment as a club over their head and
withholding a speedy trial from them
and then intimating or permitting the
public to labor under the impression
that they will not be vigorously prose
cuted if they relinquish the duties of
their office.
Chief Healey is charged with the fol
lowing violations of the law in the in
dictments which are now hanging over
his head.
Charges in. Indictment. .
Specifically the indictment charging
Chief Healey with malfeasance in of
fice comprised the following allega
tions: That divers persons were selling
liquor illegally.
That gambling was being operated.
That houses of ill fame were run
ning and that soliciting was in progress
on streets and in alleys.
That the mayor looked to Healey for
reports of liquor violations.
That on Sept. 1, 1916, Healey was
guilty of palpable omission of duty,
lengthy conference with United States
District Attorney Charles F. Clyne, on
the subject of cold storage warehouse
methods. Mr. O'Connell told the dis-J
trict attorney some inside secrets of the
cold storage business, and also told re
porters of a plan of his own for lower
ing the high cost of living.
"The warehousing question wiU come
up for a hearing before the commission
Monday or Tuesday,' ' said Mr. O'Con-j
nell. "We are given the power to reg
ulate this business and it is now time
that we took some effective action.
No Limit on Time.
"To my mind the most important
thing is lo limit the time that food
stuffs may be held in cold storage.
Aside from a council order there is vir
tually no limitation now. The length
of storage should not depend on the
keenintr dualities of thn nrt.iclft hiit. on
the public need. .- - -J?.!-,
"We found in one hearing that the
only limit to the storage of poultry was
deterioration. Chickens were kept un
til they began to sweat and show
pimples.
"Cold storage houses are an absolute
necessity, but they should not bo used
for speculative purposes. They should
be employed only to keep food in good
condition so that the public may have
it in those months when the normal
production does not equal the demand.
"Just what theso limits should be is
a matter to be decided in the case of
each article."
BIG NIGHT AT QUTNN CHAPEL.
Fine Concert and Full Description of
The Photoplay, "The Birth of a
Race."
tt0nths, that for some cause or other corruptly and knowingly authorized
he and his able assistants have
ried their most important cases
Wrif:h the columns of the daily nows-
jPs and not before juries "in the
"iminal court; that if our memory
rvM us eorrectly, three or four
Months ago the non. state's attorney
"onted it from the housetops that
J?1"1 u a very few weekB from that
6 that he would send two very
Jmoent lawyers 4o the pen at Joliet,
One of tboso lawyers belongs to
e Wan-American race 'and the other
u a member of the Jowish race, but
ftothe present time the Hon. state's
lWlley has utterly failed to land
one of them behind the prison
fherefor', it strikes us with much
n snouia all citizens with an
rt u nt 0 the same force, name-
j, tho Hon. state 'a attorney
l-Unded manner, he should not
jjT n coming to a show-down in
Jl8; that if ho never had suffi-
.Jtidenco to convict him of tho
v.u aB cn&rgea mm commit-
persons to gamble; that he refused to
seize paraphernalia or interfere with its
unlawful use; that he permitted slot
machines; that ho permitted liquor to
bo sold without license; that he permit
ted violations of the wineroom ordi
nance; that ho winked at ill-governed
liquor places; that he permited viola
tions of the 1 o'clock law; that ho per
mitted violations of tho Sunday law;
that ho permitted lewd houses of all
sorts and did not regulate street prosti
tution; that he made false statements
to the mayor with intent to induce res
toration of licenses.
Tho second indictment, charging con
spiracy, alleged that Healey, with Lut
hardt and Essig, conniving to betray
Healey's official power, did, on Sept. 1,
1916, conspire and wickedly agree, fel
oniously and corruptly to permit main
tenance of houses of prostitution,
gambling-houses, slot machines and
places for unlawful sale of liquor."
The first of this week Hon. William
L,. O'Connell, Chairman of the State
Public Utilities CoaaiMion, held a
A good audience assembled at Quinn
Chapel to hear Mme. Hurd Fairfax, the
assisting artists, and to learn from Mr.
Geo. Frederic Wheeler all about the
forthcoming big photoplay, "The Birth
of a Race."
The audience was much interested in
Mr. Wheeler's lecture, and was thor
oughly pleased with the music.
Mr. Wheeler gave a general outline
of the story of "The Birth of a Race,"
beginning with the prologue, which
starts nearly four thousand years ago,
and from this early time ho went to the
period when the Negro reached the
highest state of civilization. The pro
logue then wanders to Africa previous
to the Civil War. Hero is shown the
slave traffic, followed by a storm at
sea, and tho landing of the slaves and
the slave traders in America. From
this point the story deals with tho Ne
gro in the United States, where the
problem of slavery, the rise of the
slaves to freedom, and the education
and prominence, which has set an ex
ample for all of tho world.
It is the problem of slavery and its
solution that will cause tho photoplay
to meet with success in all of the for
eign countries. It is a well known fact
that in many of tho countries of the
world tho Negro has been a slave more
or less for generations, and where ac
tual slavery has not existed the Negro
has been given the hard and lowly
tasks to do. This was true in the
United States, as well as elsewhere.
But after the Negroes were free they
were given an-opportunity to educate
themselves, to enter into all lines of
feusimess, and to accumulate property.
This was something new to the world,
and so it has been watched by the peo-
JBBBBBBBBBBBllBBBBBBlBBBBlRB6BaKV&w ISBf$&F PBBB1BBBBBBBBBB1
HON. WILLIAM L. O'CONNELL.
Chairman of the State Public Utilities Commission, who is using all the power
and influence that he can bring to bear, against the cold storage kings and
the other high lords of industry, who are endeavoring to rob the people, by
cornering the market and forcing up food products to the very highest notch,
thereby increasing or boosting the high cost of living, who would make a
dandy candidate for Mayor of Chicago in 1919.
pie of all nations. Consequently when
"Tho Birth of a Race" is exhibited in
France, or in Russia, or in Japan, or in
other countries, the people will flock to
see it.
Mr. Wheeler told how the late Bbok
er T. Washington first thought of the
idea of "The Birth of a Race," how
"The Birth of a Nation" stimulated
this idea, and how the work is being
carried on by men that Dr. Washington
selected as being competent and as pos
sessing the right spirit.
Few people know that the motion
picture industry, while less than
twenty years old, stands fifth among
all of tho industries in the United
States, and in point of dividends paid,
it stands third among the industries.
Mr. Wheeler said that twelve million
people in this country go to the pic
ture theatres every day. This means
that more than one-ninth of our entire
population spends more than a million
dollars a day to see motion pictures.
Ho also stated that more money had
been made in the motion picture busi
ness than has been made by any other
business in the same spaco of time in
tho history of the world. It is a well
known fact that the big featuro pic
tures are the money makers of the pic
ture business, for the reason that such
pictures are exhibited in the largest
theatres, for long periods of time and
at high prices. It has been said that
there never has-been a big feature pho
toplay that did not make money.
"The-Birth of- & Race" is sure to
accomplish much good, for the reason
that it witt stow the Negro to himself.
Few otksxass know what their race
has accomplished in the past fifty
years. But best of all "The Birth of a
Race" will educate the White man,
and will be the cause of removing much
prejudice, due almost entirely to ig
norance. Mr. Wheeler stated that inas
much as both White and Colored people
will be used in "The Birth of a Race",
the company expects to inaugurate a
brain and beauty contest, whereby the
people may vote for a number of the
best looking Colored girls, whom they
would like to see in the picture.
Mme. Fairfax contributed several
very fine numbers to the program, and
delighted her audience with her won
derful versatile voice. It seems to be
easy for Mme. Fairfax to sing any note
from the very lowest to the very high
est. Because of this and because she
sang all parts of "Miserero" from
"II Trovatpre," the Quartette from
"Rigoletto," and the Sextette from
"Lucia," was applauded again and
again.
Mme. Fairfax was assisted by Mme.
Lou Elia Lyles Smith, a .reader, who
gave some excellent selections, and was
heartily encored. Master Robt. Waugh
gave an excellent violin solo, and was
thoroughly appreciated by the entire
audience. Mr. Harry Song gave a good
alto solo. Miss Gertrude Jackson and
Mrs. W. S. Jackson acted as accom
panists.
It is the intention to give more of
this kind of entertainment, as soon as
arrangements can be made. It is one
of the ways of providing a pleasant
evening and at the same time of get
ting "The Birth of a Race" before a
large number of the people
LIEUTENANT COL. CHARLES
YOUNG HAS FARED EXCEEDING
LY WELL AT THE HANDS OF
TWO DEMOCRATIC PRESIDENTS.
Those who make the slightest preten
sions of being familiar with tho career
of Lieutenant Col. Charles Young havo
no difficulty in recalling tho fact that
he has fared moro than exceedingly
well at the hands of two Democratic
presidents.
The late President Grover Cleveland
and President Woodrow Wilson.
Col. Young has the distinguished
honor of being tho first Colored man to
serve as postmaster north of tho Ma
son and Dixon line, ho being appointed
postmaster at Wilberforce, Ohio, by
President Cleveland and President Wil
son has elevated him to Lieutenant Col.
assigning him to duty with tho Tenth
Cavalry and it is tho first instanco that
a Colored man has been thusly honored
in tho regular army and in a short time
he will become a full-fledged Col. in
the United States Army, which is self
evident that two Democratic presidents
have been ablo to ride above raco pre
judice and to confer high honors upon
Colonel Young.
BUYS MACHINERY FOR LAUNDRY.
Stanley, N. D., Special. Mr. P. W.
Smith, one of tho leading young Col
ored business men of this city has just
returned from Minneapolis where he
went to purchase new machinery for
his laundry.
w .. ill
-V
tt-i-j
.-.
Aft, - f.. .
