II Metal prices . , TKvA.irivX'ii SLir W't-vX-wX- 1 4 p. m. crnr edition I
,ead. ?7.757.875; spelter, $11.75 . Z!'' C7 K WEATHER Utah: Fair Tonight i f
H ; 12.00; copper, $32.50, $33.5034.0O. f and Probably Saturday; Slowly Rli- JHI
jB i s Ing Temperature. lullf
B f s FEARLESS. INDEPENDENT. PROGRESSIVE NEWSPAPER. . I S
im Forty-Slxth Year-No. 311. Price Five Cent. OGDEN CITY, UTAH, SATURDAY EVENING, DECEMBER 16, 1916. Entered as Second-Class Matter at th e Postoff Ice, Ogden, Utah Itfjiil
I Peace Proposals Looked Upon I
I . r As Re j ected by Entente Nations
I CROWN PRINCE LOSES
NINE THOUSAND MEN
! AND EIGHTY BIG GUNS
i General Niveie s Stroke Regaiijs Nearly AH of
French Positions at Verdun Troops Ad
vance Two Miles on Six-mile Front.
w
S Paris. Dec. 15, 11:55 p. m. As his
i last act before assuming the chief
, command of the French armies on
I the "western front, General Nivelle to-
day smashed the German line east of
; the Meuse along a front of six miles.
The victory has advanced the French
positions two miles and they are now
within a short distance of where tho
Germans stood at the outset of the
great Verdun drive. The military au
thorities describe the victory as com
J plete and crushing and carried out
i without a hitch.
Since his last great stroke when
the blood-soaked ruins of Fort Vaux
and Douaunfbnt fell once more into
! the hands of Verdun's defenders. Gen
eral Nivelle has been quietly prepar-
Ing to push his advantage by an at
j tack on a larger scale. Men and
guns had been assembled, shells piled
i and everything was in readiness for
'' the moment when the general should
j see his opportunity. Then the blow
! fell like a thunderbolt. A terrific ar-1
: tiilery preparation flattened the Ger-1
man defenses, then the guns weri
elevated and threw a curtain of steel
behind while the infantry from every
trench from Pepper Hill to beyond
r Damloup dashed forward on an cne
:, my 'still stunned by the bombard
ment. The Germans gallantly strove to
hold their ground but General Ni
velle's dispositions were so well made
that thej' were generally powerless to
t stem, even momentarily, the tide.
' One after another Vacherauville and
j Louvomont villages, Chambrette
Farm and the Hardaumont and Bes
onaux works fell without the defend
ers having time to earn' away either
; guns or material and prisoners began
I to stream steadily rearward to pens
prepared for their reception.
The weather, according to hitherto
accepted notions was all against the
1 offensive. It was wet and misty and
the French officers believe that this
fact undoubtedly led the Germans to
miscalculate the probability of attack.
: The wretched weather did not pre
i vent also the aviators from rendoring
' valuable aid to the attack and their
; services are believed to have had an
': important bearing on the fact that
:, the French losses were singular
small. The large number of prison
!i ers, according to latest advices near
,, ly 9000, is an indication of the sur
prise nature of the onset.
! The news of the victory was re-
I .ceived in Paris with enthusiasm as a
s welcome relief to the gloomy tidings
from Rumania. General Nivelle is
the man of the hour. His latest
achievement justifies, it is felt, his
) choice as commander-in-chief, and
! augurs well for the future.
j- Paris, Dec. 16, 5:00 a. m. The num-
ber of guns captured from the Ger-
mans in General NIvelle's victory on
the Verdun front, as counted up to
the present, is eighty, according to the
latest reports reaching Paris.
The French plan of attack was
drawn up by General Nivelle, now the
, commander-in-chief, with the concur
rence of General Pataln, who at the
',; time was his superior officer. The
i V. acnrmlf nrnnar wrb eft to flnnpvfll
Mangln. It was made by divisions,
or close to 100,000 men, under com
mand of such leaders as General de
; Maud Huy and General du Passage.
The front, which the French in
:'l fantry had held since the recapture
of Douaumont and Vaux ran thus:
"The southern slopes of Pepper hill
east of the Meuse between Bras and
jj Vacherauville; Haudomont wood, Hau
j droment quarries, the region north of
;j the village, Fort Douaumont, the quar
j rleB northeast of Haudromont, the vll
lage southeast of Fort Douaumont;
1 Haudromont, the village of Vaux and
the fort of Vaux. Beyond that line
j , General Nivelle had distributed groups
I ' of powerful attacking forces, which,
for seventy hours before the attack,
? hammered the German positions, par
i tlcularly those on Pepper hill and at
$ Hardaumont and Bezon Vaux.
French on Series Heights.
i From the positions occupied by the
-jh French it may be seen that thoy were
installed on a series of heights, some
1 dominating tho German positions, but
I others being under the direct Are of
their opponents. To improve and
f strengthen their line, it was neces
$ sary to wrest from their adversary
ihe famous Popper hill, .Louvemont,
y the crest of Hill 372, which commands
Fosses wood, La Bauche and Has
t Boule wood north of Douaumont fort
J as well as the important works at
Hardaumont, west of Douaumont and
north of Vaux, and if possible the vil
lage of Bezon Vaux, most of whose
houses are in tho Woevre. The church
of this village is on the southorn
slopes of Hill 329 upon tho other side
of which lies the village of Ornes,
one of the first towns carried by tho
Germans at the beginning of their
victorious advance.
Divisions Attack Simultaneously.
, Promptly at 10 a.m. the Ave at
tacking divisions, each of which cov
ered a front of one and one-quarter
miles, advanced behind the screen
Are guns of all calibres. They swarm
ed rapidly into the German trenches.
The German troops In these positions,
surprised by the suddenness of the
attack, offered comparatively little re
slstence. In the village of Vacherauville,
where the Germans had installed a
quantity of machine guns, the strug
gle was sharp but none the less short.
More to the east the French forma
tions charged the slopes of Pepper
hill, carrying all before them. As they
rushed to the atack the soldiers cheer
ed and from time to time the Mar
seillaise roared by the strong throated
Poilus, could be heard above the chor
us of the -cannon.
German Forces Retire.
With Vacherauville and Pepper hill
lost it became evident to the Ger
mans that resistance would bo futile
and they retired in fairly good order.
One the Vacherauville Beaumont
road, however, French troops sudden
ly appeared in the rear of the Ger
mans. The French had crept along
a small ravine running from Pepper
hill to their rear. When the Ger
mans saw the French they bolted,
throwing away rifles, knapsacks and
.poucnes. From the top of the hill
the French could see them running
and shouting with Joy they dashed
after them.
French Formations Join.
Half an hour later the French reaoh
ed the extremity of the Louvemont
erest, close to the village of the same
name. There they joined hands with
the formations which had started from
Haudromont wood and progressed al
most as rapidly along the eastern side
of Pepper hill and the Bras-Louvemont
road. Louvemont was stormed, out-of-hand,
and a large contingent of pris
oners was rounded up. By this time
the Germans were surrendering freely
all along the line the communication
trenches were choked with wrison
ers going to the rear.
East of Louvemont another division
reached tho Louvomont-Azannes road.
South of the angle formed by this
road at the southeastern portion of
Fosses wood a sharp tussle took place
for possission of Hill 372, but here
again the Germans went down before
the vigorous efforts of their assail
ants, abandoning the group and leav
ing many dead and several hundred
prisoners. The advance swept on over
Hill 372 as far as Chambrettes farm,
at the other edge of Fosses wood and
carried it.
Northeast of Douaumont the ad
vance of the French troops was equal
ly rapid. Tho woods of La Bauche
and Hassoule and tho Hardaumont
position were carried successfully.
Hardaumont Completely Demolished.
Hardaumont work was completely
demolishes by shell firo and could give
no support to the German formations
which fell back upon It in disorder.
All the woods north of tho work were
occupied by the French who pushed
on as far as the village of Bezon
Vaux. By 11 o'clock twenty guns had
fallen into the hands of the French;
by noon forty guns, by 5 o'clock seventy-five
had been counted exclusive
of thoBe destroyed.
Exploring Parties Sent Out.
Having accompanied the task sot for
him, General Mangln, profiting by tho
disorganization of the German ranks
cauBpd by the abrupt atack, sent out
exploring parties who put out of action
most of the guns north of Vacherau
ville, Louvemont and in Fosses and
Caurieres woods.
Tho French front now follows a
line running from the north of Vach
erauville along the Vachernuvillo-Velle-Devant-Chaumont
road to the ex
tremity of the Louvemont crest,
passos on the other side of Louvemont
along the ridge of FosBes wood than
before Chambrettes and, crossing
CauriereB wood, goes to tho north of
Bezon Vaux, South of this village and
as far as the village of Vaux the line
follows the Bezon Vaux Damloupe
road.
The positions captured yesterday
were lost on February 25,
TURKISHTOWN ON VARDAR RIVER OBJECTIVE OF RUSSIANS
Valesa on the River Vardar.
A view of the town of Valesa, Turkey in Europe, on the River Vardar from the market place. This tovfn is
of immense strategic importance and is the objective of the Russian forces. It has direct communication with
Constantinople by rail and would prove of inestimable value to the czar's forces in their campaign against the
Turkish capital.
NOTED PROFESSOR
DIES SUDDENLY
Hugo Munsterberg, Distin
guished Psychologist of
Harvard Falls to Floor
Dying.
WAS GIVING LECTURE
Was Spokesman in New Eng
land for Germans and
Others Who Favored
Germany.
Cambridge, Mass., Dec. 16. Hugo
Munsterberg, distinguished psycholog
ist, author and professor of physiology
and director of the phycbological lab
oratory of Harvard university, died
suddenly in a class room at Radcliffe
college today.
Professor Munsterberg had begun
a lecture on elementary psychology
before sixty young women. He had
talked for about a half hour when he
stretched his hand toward the desk
aB though to steady himself.
Falls to Floor Unconscious.
Before anyone could reach him he
had fallen and was unconscious when
Dr. Harold E. Burtt, an instructor,
sprang to his side. Death came in
twenty minutes.
Professor Munsterberg had ap
peared to bo in his usual health and
on last Monday night delivered an
address on "the psychology of busi
ness." Wellknown In Educational Circles.
Well known in educational circles
for many years Professor Munsterberg
became prominent publicly soon after
the groat war begun. A German by
birth, he presented In addresses and
I in written articles the attitude of the
Teutonic allies as he understood It.
Gradually he came to bo regarded
as a spokesman in Now England for
many Germans and others who favor
ed Germany. As a result ho was
brought Into controversies with other
members of tho Harvard faculty who
wero outspoken in tho defense of the
allies.
Professor Munsterberg leaves a wid
ow and a daughter.
uu
CREW ABANDONS
ARMY TRANSPORT
Now York, Deo. 16. Tho JTnited
States army transport Sumner which
grounded off Barnegat, N. J., Sunday
night, on tho way to thiB port from
Colon, was abandoned by her crow
early today. Heavy seas, driven by
a northwest wind, caused the ship to
pound heavily on the ehoal. Shortly
after midnight the vessel leaked so
badly that tho pumps and wireless
were put out of commission. Captain
Weber and a small portion of the
crew left on the boat wero taken off
by boats from the coast guard cutter
Seneca and tho Barnegat coast guard
station. The remainder of the crew
j had been transferred -to the army
transport Kilpatrick and brought here
j last night.
Ship Calling Aid.
Sandy Hook, N. J., Dec 16. A re
port received here today from the
keeper of the Little Beach Life Sav
ing Station says an unidentified ship
Is ashore about two miles east south
United States revenue cutter has
i been notified.
I Later it was learned that only two
j boat loads of the Sumner's crew had
I left tho vessel. A call was sent to
Barnegat for lifeboats to take off the
men who remained on the transport,
oo
GREECE ACCEPTS
IE ULTIMATOM
Demands of Entente Are
Granted Unconditionally by
Government of Greece.
Paris, Dec. 16, 4:50 p. m. An un
official telegram announcing that
Greece had accepted unconditionally
the ultimatum demands of tho allies
was roceived at the foreign office at
midnight, according to the Petit Jour
nal. Gives Proof of Friendship.
London, Dec. 16, 11:14 a. m. Ac
cording to an Athens despatch to
Reuter's Greece has replied to the al
lies' ultimatum by saying it accepts
tho domands mado upon it as it is
desirous of giving another manifest
proof of the slnoero sentiments which
have always animated it toward the
entente.
The reply says that no hostile move
ments of troops have even taken place,
or been projected and th&l the trans
fer of material northwards will im
mediately cease. Orders have al
ready been given, it is stated, regard
ing the movement of troops and war
material and will be carried out aB
rapidly as possible.
In respect to the attack on British
and French marines on December 1
In Athens, tho Greek govornment de
clares that It desires to give overy
legitimate satisfaction and refers to
, these proposals to arbitrate. It ex
presses the hope that all allied pow
ers will reconsider thoir decision to
continue tho blockade, which, it says,
Is straining relations, and impressing
public opinion.
Tho reply concludes with an expres
sion of the desire by tho govornment
and people of Greece for tho resump
tion of tho excollent traddltlonal con
fidence which previously existed be
tween Greece and the entente nations.
EIGHT TROOPERS
1RTJNWRECK
Special Train Carrying Bat
teries to Mustering Out
Station Leave Track.
Grapeland, Toxas, Dec. 16. Eight
troopers of the Iowa Field Artillery
were injured when two tourist cars
of a special troop train, carrying Bat
teries A and C from Brownsville to
their mustering out station, left the
track one mile north of this place
today. The injured were taken at a
hospital at Palestine. It was believed
all would recover.
The accident occurred a few min
utes after the mixed train of twenty
nine coaches had left this place on
its northward trip. There were 326
soldiers aboard and they, under com
mand of their officers, helped clear
tho wreckage.
Tho Iowa troops left Brownsville
yesterday via Houston to be mustered j
out on their arrival at the moblliza-.
tlon camp.
The cause of the accident had not j
been determined several hours after j
it occurred. j
Sleepers Leave Track.
Palestine, Texas. Dec. 16. Two
trainmen and eight soldiers of the
Iowa Field Artillery who were injured
when four sleepers of thqir troop
train left the track at Grapeland. early
today were brought hero for treatmont
in a railroad hospital. Conductors Al
bright and Brakeman Davis wero tho
most seriously injured but all will re
cover, doctors said.
Of the troopers brought to the hos
pital here, Frod Obermiller and I.
Marquardson receivod injuries to the
feet and J. Rowe was slashed on tho
face. The others' injuries wero incon
sequontal. Uninjured mombers of A Battery
said thro sleeping cars left the track
and that a defective rail was tho
cause. Ono car turned over and slid
down and embankment, alighting on its
side, throwing the occupants out of
their berths.
Fire started in one of tho over
turned cars, but Lieutenant Luth beat
it out with his bare hands.
B Battery had not left Houston this
morning. .
, nn
DECREE FORBIDS
MAKING CANDIES
Rome, Dec 15. Via Paris, Dec. 16, !
4:45 a. m. A decree has been Issued
forbidding for two weeks tho manu
facture of candy or cake for transmis
sion by the post or in the railroads.
The documents further forbids hotels
to serve moalB containing more than
one meat course. The decree will pre
vent the sending of enormous number ,
of Christmas dainties intended for the
soldiera at the front. y
A
GERMANY TRYING TO
LEARN PEACE ATTITUDE 1
f THE UNITED STATES 1
Count Von Bernstorff Seeks Information From ! I
Secretary Lansing Definite Terms Will Be ; jf
Offered After Belligerents Signify Will- j I
ihgness to Consider Them. j I
Washington, Dec. 16. Count von
Bernstorff, the German ambassador,
conferred with Secretary Lansing to
day seeking information of the atti
tude of the United States toward the
peace proposals of the Central Pow
ers, to discuss the general subject of
peace from this government's view
point and to give any information to
Mr. Lansing that he might desire on
the attitude of the German govern
ment Ambassador Bernstorff said after a
ten minute visit with Secretary Lan
sing: "We did not discuss peace terms in
any way. I have not received any
formal terms and the American gov
ernment knows officially that no for
mal terms have been proposed. All
Germany has suggested is that the
belligerents get together and talk. If
that proposal is accepted, definite
terms naturally will be discussed, but
till then It'will not be proper to men
tion them. My visit to the secretary
j was purely for general discussion."
Tho ambassador indicated that the
! actual place f?r the holding of a qon
ference and the question of whether
it should be by direct negotiation, or
through intermediaries, were ques
tions entirely Independent of the will
ingness of the entente allies to dis
cuss the American action In sending
on the Teutonic notes without com
ment, as. that was -purely a matter
for this country to decide for itself.
nn
FOUND GUILTY OF
MANSLAUGHTER
Serve Eight Years for
Killing Boy.
Sioux City, Iowa, Dec. IS. Theodore
Salner, a wealthy young resident of
Sioux City, late last night was found
guilty of manslaughter by a jury in
the district court for the killing of
Vernon Frost, 14 years old, by his mo
the car on October 31, 1915. The pen.
alty is not to exceed eight years in the
penitentary. Ho will be sentenced
ranuary IS.
nn
WOULD INVOKE
OLDJTATUTE
General McCain Unearths Re
cruiting Plan in Use Dur
ing Civil War.
Washington, Dec. 16. A law passed
more than half a century ago and j
inoperative since the civil war, is to '
be invoked by the war department to I
stimulate army recruiting. Tho old
statute, unearthed by Adjutant-General
McCain, provides for payment of
$2 to any civilian for each man he
persuades to enlist in the army. Gen
eral McCain suggested to Secretary
Baker that congress, be asked to ap
propriate not more than $50,000 to pay
the bonuses. His plan 1b to solicit re-,
cruitB mainly through retired enlisted
men and ho believes the payment
would incite them to active canvass of
men likely to Join the army. '
VIOLENT BATTLES 1
ON WEST FRONT
Artillery Fighting in Belgium Wm
German Troops Make 19
an Advance. CI
Momentarily the western front is VM
again the center of attention with the g H
' French victory at Verdun occupying J
the chief place in the war news. ffll
General Nivelle's stroke has re- b
gained, according to latest reports, Wmt
nearly all the line the French occu- ifll
pied when the Germans began their jll
great drive for Verdun last February. ;l
Today's despatches says that the Ger- ill
man crown prince's troops lost nearly ill
9,000 men in prisoners and eighty Jll
guns during the French advance, ' ;l
which was effected to a depth of ap- Mm
proximately two miles along a six mile ill
Petrograd advices carrying the' re- II
port of the Russian duma, favoring II
a categorical refusal by the entente 1 II
governments to enter into peace nego- ill
tiations under present conditions, II
quote Foreign Minister Pokrovsky II
as declaring in his address to the II
duma that Russia and her allies are as II
one in the conviction that the war II
must be carried to a victorious con- ill
elusion. ill
Violent Artillery Fighting. 'II
'Berlin, Dec. IS. By wireless to Say- IB
vllle. Violent artillery fighting oc- WM
curred in Belgium yesterday, it is an. ill
nounced officially. Southeast of Zille- !
beke German troops advanced to tho
second British line whose defenders, II
the statement says, fled.
On the Verdun front the French
drove the Germans from advanced
positions east o'f the Meuse.
Teutons Are Advancing,
Berlin, Dec; 16. By wireless to Saj'
ville. The Teutonic forces in Ruma-
nia are continuing their advance all H
along the front, it is announced in to
day's war office statement. Two
thousand more prisoners have been
brought in. In Dobrudja the Russians
have retired. lH
Norwegian Steamer Sunk..
London, Dec. 16, 12:25 p. ra. The WLM
Norwegian steamer Brask of 905 tons
net, has been sunk, says a Lloyd's WM
Shipping agency announcement to-
day. The crew has been landed. JLL
FRENCH LINER I
ELUDES RAIDER I
New York, Dec. 16. Tho French
lino steamship Chicago which arrived H
here today nearly 4S hours overdue
from Bordeaux, passed about 150 miles
from the point which a wireless mes- H
sage posted on board indicated was jH
the position of the German commerce
raider reported in the Atlantic, accord
Ing to passengers.
Tho bulletin was put up December
6 and to the surprise of tho passen- SH
gers was torn down five minutes later.
The Chicago then detoured and this J
change of course, together with the
heavy snowstorm yesterday, account
cd for the delay. The bulletin gave
the raider's position as approximately
1,500 miles west of Bordeaux and in H
the Llverpol New York steamship
Turkey Contest Wo. 5 j I
Mrs. Etta Wonder, 3342 Woodland, wins.
On account of the lack of space we will not be able to
Dublish the poem, etc. IH
Contest No. 6, Tuesday and Contest No. 7, Wednesday,
ivinners in both contests will be announced Friday, so that
winners may get their Turkey in time for Christmas Dinner.
