THE DONALDSONVILLE CHIEF.
A Wide-Awake Home Newspaper-Published Every Saturday-Subscription Price, $2 a Year.
'.UME XLVI. DONALDSONVILLE, LA., SATURDAY, DECEMBER 16, 1916. NUMBER 20
NEWS OF THE PHOTOPLAYS as
C-oming Attractions at the Local Movie Houses
.... .1/ 1.( - . ' i a m i I mid il l Iliaa i an D imR l I~ • nl i
N-e-t Week's Bill at the Grand.
::i:u:---IH:rold Lockwood and
:a: in " Mister 44," and Char
l:..a:iiii in "Hiis Trysting Places."
i, -Owe Moore in "The
i.: ia screaming comedy, "Mutt
Sia:f ini the Mess Kitchen." Bene
i;ii .and toy fund.
>.·iy-June Caprice in "Little
. H -, p iness.
,Ine-.:y--.Anna Pennington in
. n a. :-in . ao a I'ariancess."
day -- ian'ie Ward in "Every
Tear.
I.i .---. : i hildiers and An
a., , in "The Devil's Prize."
.: ay--,ncauding chapter of
"-1,- ' . i;ing," comedy, cartoon,
i'.,he uSi , and first episode of "The
i na Shodeow.v
Ra..m...e and Thril!s Galore in
"Mister 44."
.,ie!ld Lockwood and May Allison
..i s ,- ,e at the Grand Sunday in
'.l-. .. 44," a five-part feature filled
..:: :nmance and beauty. The story
i; 1c unusal one, asi the name implies.
:. i eat out doors Mr. Lock
t","( :.::n( :'MIi-s Allison are called up
..:, ii .y their prowess and daring
i m:n'y thrilling and ll iping situa
. ih, ae caugi; htear cianger
,. -,i t;e:.cherous stream during a
,tron a:,nd their boat capsized. They
!in::ly each a small island, where
they , e marooned for a lay and a
niaht. UndIer this trying situation
t oles '.t qualities of both come to
. -fac:, and they fall in love with
,- a thar . (n account of the girl's
.y - i: i, lifea, and the man's ex
a. n in society, many obsta
aI' , -e-:.nted, which are happily
,,i c.rme ;,y their sturdy loyalty to
t!.:. a ie::i ,::;d each other.
"The Kiss."
i.n inter-stinag dramatic comedy of
!.: ociety is "The Kiss," featur
'Owen Moore and Marguerite
S,ito tt. which comes to the Grand
M . Mr. Moore plays the part
: .m:ria aviator on furlough
,i'",,: foreign service. Miss Courtot is
-' I as- Louise, the companion of the
ah.o's grandmother, and, along with
.d.zen other girls, very much in love
. ,li the lion of the hour.
As the title indicates, a kiss figure:;
hIrgely in the working out of the
story--lrot one, indeed, but several of
them. lhis is due to the efforts of the
hero to identify the young woman
whin.a aige dark had favgr.Oht'j~n-i h .
a definite token of her regar and
Paromptly disappeared from the land
.cape. The situation resolves itself
in'to a :ty of the psychology of the
A.: :fia'oria opportunity for specu
!:tiCn` i. a e part of the observer as
to, wbCth,:" he,.e wa-s ina the brief con- I
t::et -ufilcint- of the tangible, recog
ni-zabe a iefainable to set apart the
pa:rt i bý,-u.!: aao:,.,, woman from her fel
.,ý:;.. e. idence seemed to favor
the a.T:!vraaiae.
-il.:: a , I ,; ne side to the story,
(. wev::.a-wherein the daughter of
t! : ,'aiployV..'r of the heroine loves un
w ;elx i f wel! a man who seeks to
So' in ci' : y th-i ou'",ia her affection
',r him; .h) hesitates not to "trim"
hr alt cards and to insist upon prompt
nsaymn.et If thea obligation, even being
o i ai.at..t as to cause the weak-will
aI! '',oaman to riale her mother's safe.
There is h:' I ia justitieation for the.
a:nalata:ýia thata Louise is the thief,
but tih 'i .a. unciaation leads to a train,
of .xca.in;aa in'idants.
"Lit..e Miss Happiness."
.iTnt ( .pcice and Harry Hilliard
;:re .e t. i i in William Fox's delight
:ul n: ,;: : y V f country life, "Little
is il::'." which th .: ,nd an
nouie.- : ia ttrlacti,-StS.W Tues
i. . .' i:- Caprice) lives
with i.. ,::dmother and earns a
livi i: . t th ,oth by selling yeast.
Arrnon; he, .:> st~mers are the Aliens,
whos, o. ,. 1 .v i- away at college.
1 .' ::,. th. daughter. leaves
h : . : . ,, - t. ': city. There she
fal i .n, a \uh .'ix Barker, a dis
v,:: ,, ,, by. who marries her.
La i: r , c uei to Sadie, and
l:urhs :t her when she tells him of
: , cý:-;c,- e,. atddition to their family.
F:ind!v he le:vt's her, declaring that
hI h; d faked the license for their
mna :i ;r, :ad that the ceremony was
Da:ve \ Aliun and Jim Butterfield.
the ;i1 t,: a pal of Barker's, have re
tur rred from college and both are in
iov, wi'th Lucy. She realizes there
is onmnething unholy in Jim's atten
tinns to her, and will have nothing to
do npith him.
Worn out with the weary struggle
in l5, ,.it.. Sadie returns home,
hinglnb her baby with her. She
fears to take the child to her father's
l'ou-e :rdi tell the truth to her par
onts. Lu. meets her and immediate
ly falls in love with the baby. She
t"aes it hame with her, and Sadie
seet,, a (,ood Ihance to have the child
cared fri unti! she herself is strong
cnouhI to face her father with the
Lucy '-. .raporary adoption of the
child,. hwver, causes the village gos
sips to ta!ll. Lucy will not say where
she got the baby, but insists on call
ing it ih'r own. Sadie is ill at her
home. is still unable to tell the
truth.
Max Barker arrives in the village
just at this time. He has come on a
visit to ,irm Butterfield, and meets
Sadie at a fete. Then he realizes the
wrong he has done, tells her she real
ly is his wife. and announces their
marriage to the crowd. Sadie re
claims her child, and Lucy's name is
cleared.
Meanvwhile, Lucy has discovered
that Dave Allen is in love with her,
and all ends happily.
"The Rainbow Princess."
One of the most decided hits made
on Broadway this season was the Hula
IIula dance which Ann Pennington
contributes to the Ziegfeld "Follies."
This picturesque Hawaiian dance has
been incorporated in the Famous
Players-Paramount picture, "ThŽ
Rainbow Princess," in which Miss
Pennington will be seen at the Grand
Wednesday. In order to make the
scene as realistic as possible, a Ha
waiian village was erected as a back
ground for the dance, and the cele
brated Hawaiian orchestra which ac
companies Miss Pennington on the
stage was engaged to play for her
during the filming of the dance for
the screen. The mere fact that this
is the most expensive Hawaiian or
chestra in this country did not deter
the producers from using the musi
cians, because it was felt that Miss
Pennington would be more at home
with the same accompaniment which
she had had all season.
"Every Pearl a Tear."
There is no lack of incident in this
Lasky feature, which will be Thurs
day's attraction at the Grand. The
spectator is kept interested from the
first, thanks to the art and the per
sonality of the star, Miss Fannie
Ward.
The plot is handled very cleverly,
and the way in which the unsophis
ticated little maiden gets into the
stock market and saves her lover from
ruin is both dramatic and amusing.
The thought to make a rope of pearls
the instrument of wrong and the
weapon of atonement is very effective
ly carried out in the story.
As usual in Lasky productions, at
mosphere, settings, and light effects
are generously in evidence, and help
materially to "put the picture over."
"The Devil's Prize."
The story of the Vitagraph Blue
Ribbon feature, "The Devil's Prize,"
featuring Antonio Moreno and Naomi;
Childers, which is to be shown at the
Grand next Friday, overbounds with
human interest touches.
Marguerite Bertsch, who is respon
sible for the stories of a number of
Vitagraph successes, both wrote and
directed this production and it is more
than worthy to be called a super
feature.
In this picture Miss Bertsch has
shown us a side of our nature which
we (lid not know existed. It is a
case of "Your skin-or mine?" It'
is human nature to blame another for
)ur mistake or act, and only co ci
ne pIe nts ust:from doing so time
and time again.
If we should allow ourselves to
blame others for our act very often
it would soon become so natural for
is to do so that we would be unable
:o do otherwise. As one of the lead
ing characters says in the play, "You
Zave blamed your crimes on others so
long that you are not conscious when
you do so!"
Never before was a picture releas
?d so full of psychological and human
nterest situations.
Attractions at the Gem Theatre.
Today-Gail Kane in "The Scarlet
Oath."
Tomorrow--"The Battle Cry of
Peace."
Sunday, Dec. 24-"Where Are My
Children?"
Sunday, Dec. 31-Anna Pavlowa in
"The Dumb Girl of Portici."
"The Scarlet Oath."
Gail Kane, one of the most talented
and popular stars of the silent drama,
will he seen at the Gem today in "The
Scarlet Oath," a five-part feature pic
ture of unusual interest and dramatic
force.
"The Scarlet Oath" falls in the class
of what is known as twin sister stories,
in which one sister assumes the identi
ty of the other in order that the intri
cate tangle of the plot may be effectu
ally unwoven. It is a mighty good
story of its class, well conceived and
well worked out.
The dual role of the twin sisters
is creditably handled by Gail Kane.
There are only one or two places
where double exposure photography
is necessary to show the two sisters at
once. Miss Kane has interpreted the
widely opposed characters of the two
girls in a most efficient manner-the
lighthearted, frivolous nature of Nina,
the pampered society girl, and the
brooding revengefulness of Olga,
brought up and educated in Nihilistic
circles with the one idea of revenge
and murder as her sole object in life.
The story tells of the Nihilist, Pay
loff. exiled from Russia, who comes to
this country with his twin baby daugh
ters. On the steamer a lonely wealthy
Russian couple, the Karenins, try to
persuade him to let them adopt Nina.
He refuses, but later, being reduced
to dire want, is forced to consent.
Karenin gives him a large check to be
used for Olga's education.
Years later Pavloff has achieved
great success as a revolutionary writ
er and has become the leader of the
Nihilists in America. He receives
word that Savaroff, who caused the
death of his wife, has become chief of
the dreaded Russian third section. He
and Olga take a solemn oath to bring
about Savaroff's death. They journey
to Warsaw secretly and at a meeting
of the Nihilists are captured. Olga, in
order to save her father from death
by torture, consents to remain with
Savaroff in his house for one night.
While there she learns that her father
has died and as a residl kills Savaroff.
Escaping, she is m nken by John
Huntington, her sistg"'s fiancee, for
her sister. Masquerag as his wife,
the two escape from `ia and safely
reach America. Ther Oga is shot by
Russian spies and H gton learns
of his mistake when tMna, his real
fiancee, suddenly app e on the scene.
Keep in touch with ` happenings
by investing $2 for e year's sub
scription to the Chi
n; "BATTLE CRY OF'' PEACE."
s Great Motion Picture Spectacle a
s: Call to Arms Against War.
"The Battle Cry of Peace," the
wonderful photodramatic masterpiece
which will be presented as the Sunday
attraction at the Gem Theatre, clear
ly and forcefully depicts the terrors
that may some day result from the
unpreparedness of our country to
meet the assault of a powerful foe.
First, we see an ordinary house
noll, in New York City, with an aged
mother, two typical American boys
and their sister. One of the boys,
i John Harrison, is in love with Vir
ginia Vandergriff, daughter of a
"peace at any price" advocate, whose
actions, guided by the hand of a
foreign spy, have done much toward
keeping our country in its deplorable
state of unpreparedness. John tries
to reason with Vandergriff, urging
him, for his country's sake, to aban
(don his policy, but the pacifist re
mains firm.
Then, in the midst of one of the
meetings over which Vandergriff pre
sides, patriotically waving an Ameri
can fag, the thunder of guns is heard,
the. hall ci destroyed by a monster
shell, -vleexv York is forced to re
alize too late, that our defences are
inadequate and the city is at the
mercy of the invaders. Our fleet, af
ter a gallant stand, is sunk by the
longer range and larger calibre guns
of the enemy, which are able to stand
outside the zone of our fire and pelter
our ships with a merciless hail of
mhot and shell. Our coast defense
guns also are silenced by a terrific
bombardment while the enemy fleet
is still outside the range of our tire.
'The beautiful sky line of the city is
::attered. the sky scrapers in falling
adding many to the list of the already
numerous dead and wounded. The
city is in panic, refugees rushing to
and froe in a vain attempt to escape
the horrible death which has over
taken so many. The enemy lands,
under cover of fire from the fleet, and
after a short engagement, forces the
American army to flee.
New York is now in the possession
of the e0emy. John Harrison returns.
to his home, to bid his mother fare
well, as he is going to enlist in the
army and lend his meagre assistance
toward the preservation of his coun
try. He finds his mother, together
with his brother and sister, stretched
out dead, killed by the shot and shell
which, had we been prepared, would
never have reached our shores. He
has no time to mourn his triple loss,
for he must hurry to the aid of his
country. Before he is able to strike
a blow for the defence of America,
he is seized on a false charge of
'sniping and sentenced to death. With
a crowd of other innocent Americans,
among them the pacifist Vandergriff,
he is forced to the wall, where the
enemy opens fire with a machine gun.
Through a miracle, Harrison remains
alive, but falls in order to deceive the
execution squads
Meanwhile, Mrs. Vandergriff has
been compelled to open her doors to
a squad of enemy soldiers, who loot
the home recklessly. When Mrs.
Vandergriff sees the commander of
the squad viewing her daughter, Vir- 1
ginia, with malicious eyes, she
chooses the only honorable retreat
left to her by shooting both her
daughter and herself.
Harrison, after extricating himself i
from the pile of dead, attempts once t
more to aid in repelling the enemy. t
He Aes the spy who, through his i
preachings, was largely responsible
for the present condition of the coun
try, andl ---.-s himself upon him, only t
to be strut r"wn by the guards and i
killed. t
This is the story of what would c
happen to not only New York, al- c
though that city would undoubtedly i
be the first attacked, but to every
city in the country, unless adequate
protection is afforded so that the 1
United States, the richest country in
the world, shall be able to repel the
attacks of the strongest nation on 1
earth. We need more ships, more t
guns, larger guns with a longer I
range. We need more men to work
the guns, more ammunition and all
the other things necessary to bring
our army and navy on a par with, or
superior to, all others on earth, so
that the nation may enjoy pe-ace with I
honor, knowing always that our
armed forces are adequate to com
mand the respect which is our due. t
The usual prices of admission I
charged for this wonderful produc
tion in other towns and cities havet
ranged from 50 cents to $1, but with
a view to placing the fee within the
means of everybody, Mr. Von Lotten
has fixed the admission price at onlyI
15 cents for children and 25 cents for
adults. There will be a special show
at 10:30 o'clock for the benefit of
country patrons, particulahly ladies
and children. Continuous show from
1:30 to 10:30 p. m.
DO YOU KNOW THAT
A little cough often ends in a large
coffin?
Bodily vigor protects against colds:
Careless sneezing, coughing, spit
ting spread colds?
Open-air exercise cures colds?
Colds sometimes get well in spite
{ of the excessive use of alcoholic
beverages?
Overheated, air-tight rooms beget
colds?
Neglected colds often forerun
pneumonia?
Persistent, oft repeated colds, in
dicate bodily weakness?
Following the example of the Lou
isiana Press Association, the Louisi
ana Bar Association has chosen Alex
andria as the place for holding its
1917 annual meeting.
An ad in The Chief will pay..
THE RECOGNITION OF JOHN M.
Function in Honer of Progressive
Leader Rightly Named.
Lake Charles American-Press.
The "recognition dinner" to be giv
en in New Orleans January 8, in hon
or of John M. Parker, is a token of ap
preciation for his services in the re
election of Woodrow Wilson which
Swill be properly and worthily bestow
ed. At the same time it is not without
its humorous aspects.
The term "recognition." one may
presume, is intended to apply to the
r Progressive leader; but it seems to
play a large part in the arrangement
of the details. Complaints have al
ready been made that the Progressives
were not "recognized;" that the Re
publicans weire not "recognized;" that
former governor Hall has not been
I "recognized." One New Orleans edi
tor complains that nobody is "recog
nized" in the affair but the faithful
ward leaders; whereupon another edi
tor intimates that the first editor's
complaint was due to the lack of "re
cognition" given him. "Recognition"
truly seems to be the test word of the
entire function.
if the charge is true that the ward
leaders are taking full command in
:his tribute to Mr. Parker's unques
iioned and consistent political inde
pendence, it is calculated to give rise
Lo cynical reflections. Mr. Parker
'epresents a political viewpoint which
- as far removed from the ward lead
er "ideals," if they may be so termed,
is the poles are asunder. The "ma
,hine Democracy" of Louisiana will
ie placed in the position of praising
John M. for doing nationally what
:hey hate him for doing as a fellow
citizen. It is less than a twelve
month si'nce Mr. Parker went up
g'ain-t the Democratic machine in the
slat: . and dented it so severely that
t'e last legislative session enacted
-uch a rigid primary law that its ef
i'cct. as the Monroe News-Star says,
-::ill be to "enforce party loyalty."
If John M. Parker had been a poli
tician of a similar type to the Louisi
na variety, he would not have trou
bled himself to chase the country
)ver at his own expense, advising the
P',on'ressives to vote for President Wil
-i:n. If such laws had been in force
ii the Republican states which Wil
:on carried, as the primary law re
:e.ntly enacted in Louisiana, the presi
lent': rc-election would have been im
possible. Such independence as put
Kansas. California and other western
.tates into the Democratic column
would have been stifled. Men like to
be free to vote as they think best at
the moment of voting, but not at the
expense of violating a printed pledge,
with a possible fine and jail sentence
attached.
This being the case, it is hard to
see what the state politicians have
suddenly discovered in John M. Park
er to admire, beyond the fact that his
indepeendence in national politics may
give them an incidental chance at the
Democratic pie counter. For John
M. Parker is the same John M. who
crowned a long career of opposition
to machine politics by leading, last
:spring, what amounted to a Demo
cratic revolt. Perhaps they are prais
ing him for his independence for the
purpose of keeping him independent,
for as distasteful as Mr. Parker may
be to them as a party enemy, he is
rather more objectionable as a party
associate.
CHRISTMAS TREE DON'TS.
Precautions That, if Observed, Will
Prevent Holiday Blazes.
The Louisiana State Society for the
Reduction of Fire Waste, reminding
us that "fire prevention leaves no af
termath of regret," and "a house of
merriment is better than a house of
mourning," has issued the following
don'ts for the holiday season:
"Do not decorate your Christmas
tree with paper, cotton or any other
inflammable material. Use metalic
tinsel and other non-inflammable
decorations only, and set the tree se
curely so that the children in reach
ing for things cannot tip it over.
"Do not use cotton to represent
snow. If you must have snow, use
powdered mica or asbestos fiber.
"Do not permit children to light or
relight candles while parents are not
present. They frequently set fire to
their clothing instead. Electrical il
lumination is safer.
"Do not leave matches within reach
of children at holiday time. Candles
are meant to be lighted, and if the
children can get matches they will
experiment with them. They imitate
their elders.
"Do not allow trees to remain in
side buildings after the holidays. The
tree itself ignites readily when needles
have become dry. A large number
of fires usually occur in January from
this cause."
ALL TIRED OUT.
Hundreds More in Donaldsonville in
the Same Plight.
Tired all the time;
Weary and worn out night and day;
Back aches; head aches.
Your kidneys are probably weak
ened.
You should help them at their work.
Let one who knows tell you how.
E. M. Barrett, 246 S. Boulevard
street, Baton Rouge, La., says: "I suf
fered from pain in the small of my
back and I could hardly get up or
down. My back ached at night and
was very lame in the morning. I
tired easily and was languid and
nervous. I also had headaches and
dizzy spells and my sight blurred.
The kidney secretions contained sedi
ment and were too frequent in pass
age, obliging me to get up from two
to three times. Colds also settled in
my kidneys. Two boxes of Doan's
Kidney Pills permanently cured me."
Price 50 cents, at all dealers. Don't
simply ask for a kidney remedy-get
Dean's Kidney Pills-the same that
Mr. Barrett had. Foster-Milburn
Co., Props., Buffalo, N. Y.-(Adv.).
Let The Chief do your printing.
Quality and prices right. Phone 84.
UPHOLDS ACT TO ENLARGE JURY
Measure Declared Constitutional by Judge Wortham in
Lengthy Decision-Full Text of Court's Opinion and
Judgment on Exceptions and Motions in Suit to Enjoin
Governor's Appointees from Acting.
The parish of Ascension is di' ided
Y into eight police jury wards, from
e each of which heretofore one police
o juror for the parish has been elected.
By Act 190 of 1916 the legislature
provided that wards seven and eight
S should have each an additional police
juror, and that until the ne.t general
state election the two additional mem
bers should be appointed by the gov
ernor.
Under this act the governor of the
state appointed Messrs. Gonzales and
Dixon, two of the defendants, to fill
the positions created by said act, and
issued commissions to them as such ap
pointees.
Thereupon four members of the
Ascension police jury bring this suit,
making defendants the two appoint
ees ands the other four members of
that body; the object of the suit being
to enjoin said two appointees from
acting as members of the police jury
and the other four members of that
body from recognizing them as such.
The basis of the suit is, of course,
the unconstitutionality of said Act
190 of 1916. 3X' -
The first exception on'f L.e part of
defendants is to the jurisdiction of
the court ratione materiae. This plea
is especially aimed at the power of
this court to issue the preliminary in
junction granted herein, and is based
upon the decision of the supreme
court in State vs. Judge, 48 A. 1516,
affirming State vs. Judge, 47 A. 53;
and 47 A. 61.
But in Jackson vs. Powell, 119 La. I
882, it is distinctly held, after a re
view of the authorities, that the mem
bers of a school board have the right
to protect their possession of the of
fice by injunction against appointees
of the governor. If this is true, it is
equally clear that they can protect
their possession against a partial ous
ter which would take place if addi
tional members were added to the
board. If a board is composed of
eight, each member constitutes one
eighth thereof. If it is composed of
ten, each member constitutes only
one-tenth. It is therefore clear that
an addition of members to any board
is a partial ouster of the power and
authority of each member of the
board.
In the 48th Annual case, supra, the
suit was brought by the district attor
ney, not by incumbents seeking to
protect their possession from total or
partial ouster, as is the case here.
The court thinks therefore that it has
jurisdiction of the subject matter, and
that the proceeding by injunction was
proper, provided the act of 1916 is
unconstitutional as alleged.
The next exception is to the utter
want of interest in the plaintiffs to
maintain the suit. This has already
been touched upon in discussing the
plea to the jurisdiction, supra.
If the act of 1916 is unconstitution
al, and the two members have no right
to sit upon the police jury, and if one
half of the members of the present
jury are in favor of seating the new
members, then the remaining mem
bers have not only the right and in
terest to do so, but are performing a
public duty in suing to protect from
intrusion the power and authority
lawfully delegated to them.
It is evident that the party most
interested, the parish of Ascension,
cannot act in the matter, since its po
lice jury, the only agency through
which it could act, is evenly divided;
and then the very question to be de
cided is, which body of men. tihe small
er or the increased b 'cfthstitute
the lawful police jury odfthe parish.
Evidently, the executive depart
ment of the state would not act in the
matter, since its head, the governor,
was the chief actor in the alleged ille
gal acts complained of.
It miry not be true that "For every
wrong there is a remedy;" but it is
the policy of the law to provide if pos
sible a remedy for every wrong. If
the four plaintiffs have not an inter
est to bring this suit, it is difficult to
see who could have sufficient interest
to bring it. I believe they have suf
ficient interest to satisfy the law in
this respect.
The only remaining exception tc be
disposed of is that of no cause of ac
tion, which puts squarely up to the
court the decision of the question of
whether Act 190 of 1916 is constitu
tional or not.
The legislature in the state is su
preme, except as limited by the consti
tutions, state and federal. One al
leging the unconstitutionality of a
state statute must point to the par
ticular provision violated, and every
doubt must be resolved in favor of
the constitutionality of the statute.
State vs. Michel, 121 La. 375.
It is alleged in the petition that the
act in que.sion violates Articles L, 2,
15, 31, 48 and 49 of our state consti
tution, and the 14th amendment to the
federal constitution.
In the case of some of these arti
cles the claim that the act violates
them seems far-fetched, but we will
notice them seriatim.
As to Art. 1, the act, like every
other statute, was passed by the leg
islature, elected by the people, and
thus. like all other laws, originated
with the people. That it was passed
"for the good of the whole," "to se
cure justice," and "promote Lhe inter
est and happiness of the people," must
be presumed. It is not within the pro
vince of the courts to inquire into the
justice, wisdom or policy of a statute,
so long as there is no infringement of
any constitutional provision. Nor
can the purpose or motive of the leg
islature be inquired into. McCray vs.
U. S., 195 U. S. 27; 1 A. & E. Ann.
Cas. 561, and note p. 570.
Even if the wisdom or justice of
this-statute were a proper subject for
our inquiry, the court is without the
means of making such an investiga
Stion. This court cannot order a cen
sus taken or count made of the inhab
itants of the respective wards in order
1to determine how many representa
tives one is entitled to as compared
with another. Whether the legisla
ture acted upon much or little evi
dence as to the respective population
of the wards, its finding is conclusive
and cannot be reviewed by this court.
81 Cal. 489, 22 Pac. 851.
As to Art. 2. This is the "due pro
cess of law" clause of the constitu
tion. It refers more especially to the
judicial department. It is difficult to
see how this statute will deprive any
one of "life, liberty or property," and
it does not appear that all legal pro
cesses were not observed in its con
fection and enactment.
As to Art. 15, it does not appear
what reserved right of the people is
violated by the statute in question.
As to Art. 31, this is the article re
quiring an act to embrace but one ob
ject, and that to be expressed in the
title. It is contended that the act
creates an additional police juror for
the seventh ward aid also one for the
eighth ward, and that therefore it nec
essarily has two objects. But the two
objects are so closely co-related that
they form only parts of one main ob
ject, and the act does not violate the
intendment of the constitution. The
object of the act might perhaps have
been better stated in its title as fol
lows: "An act to equalize represen
tation upon the police jury of Ascen
sion parish according to population by
creating an additiohal police juror for
each the seventh and eighth wards of
said parish," or words of similar im
port. But as the title appears it fully
discloses its object, without violating
the constitution; and as we have seen,
we are not concerned with the motive,
purpose, or policy of the legislature.
As to Art. 49, the act does not vio
late this article. Mulhaunt vs.
Shreveport, 126 La. 780, 785.
As to the 14th amendment to the U.
S. constitution, the provision in sec
tion 2 of this amendment that repre
sentation shall be on the basis of
population, refers only to represen
tation in the national house of repre
sentatives. The U. S. constitution
does not interfere in the form of state
government except to require that it
be republican, and .o. forbid the pas
sage of certain enumerated obnoxious
laws. The government of Louisiana
is and will remain republican, wheth
er this Act 190 of 1916 stands or falls.
As to Art. 48 of the Louisiana con
stitution, this article forbids our leg
islature to pass any local or special
law upon certain designated subjects.
It is claimed that Act 190 of 1916 is a
local and special law, and the court
has no doubt but that it is such a law,
in the sense of Art. 48.
It is claimed also that this act vio
lates the twelfth prohibition, which
forbids the passage of any local or
special law "creating corporations, or
amending, renewing, extending or ex
plaining the charters thereof."
In my view, the framers of the con
stitution desired to make it clear that
this prohibition should not apply to a
law like the present, and for that rea
son they added immediately to this
prohibition, the following proviso,
'provided, this shall not apply * * *
to the organization of levee districts
and parishes."
The interpretation of the word "or
ganization" in this proviso has given
me more trouble than any other ques
tion in the case. At first sight, it
would seem to apply to the creation,
establishment and organization of
new parishes, but the more I have
studied the question, the more I am
convinced that its meaning should not
be so restricted.
The creation or establishment of a
parish is an entirely different thing
from its organization.
Black's Law Dictionary defines an
"organized county" as "a county
which has its lawful officers, legal ma
chinery, and means for carrying out
the powers and performing the duties
pertaining to it as a quasi municipal
corporation," citing in re Sec. No. 6,
G6 Minn. 32, 68 N. W. 323.
Under our law, in the light of this
definition, the "organization" of a
parish is, more than anything else, its
police jury.
In Minnesota, this difference be
tween establishing a county and or
ganizing a county seems to be well
established. See Words and Phrases,
1st, Series, vol. 6,p. 5054.
Our own legislature has to a cer
tain extent recognized this difference
between establishing and organizing
a parish. By Acts Nos. 77, 78 and
79 of 1910, the parishes of Jefferson
Davis, Beauregard and Allen were re
spectively created and established. It
is true that the title to each of these
acts also uses the word "organize,"
but we search each act in vain for any
provision providing a police jury or
other governing body for the new par
ish, and it is certain that without such,
the parish is not completely organized.
Words and Phrases, 2nd Series, vol. 1,
p. 1098.
We are puzzled to know how these
new parishes first begun to exercise
their functions as parishes, until our
perplexity is removed by finding Act
No. 27 of 1910, which is a general law
"to provide for the organization of
new parishes," and the first and chief
est provision is for a police jury for
the new parish.
It is therefore in the sense of pro
viding governing bodies and agencies
for parishes, through which they can
exercise their functions as political
corporations, that we must under
stand the word "organization" as used
in Art. 48.
With this much settled, then must
we understand the exception to apply
only to the first organization of new
levee districts and parishes? In other
words, after the legislature has once
provided a board of commissioners for
a levee district, is it forever after for
bidden to increase or diminish the
number of such board, or to other
wise change it, by a special law apply
ing only to such board? Or can it
reach it only through general legisla
tion applying to all levee boards in the
state? I believe a fair construction
of this paragraph of Art. 28 leaves
the organization of a levee district a
subject for a special or local law
"amending, renewing, extending or
explaining" such organization. And
parishes are placed in exactly the
same category.
Nearly all corporations have char
ters. The perfection of the charter
is the creation of the corporation.
Municipal corporations also have
charters, granted either by general or
special law. The domain of special
law on the subject is limited by this
twelfth paragraph ofArt. 48. The
legislature can by special law amend
the charters of cities of over 2500 in
habitants. It is because municipal
corporations, like private corpora
tions, have charters, that the proviso
excepting them in part is stated in
these words, "provided, this shall not
apply to municipal corporations," etc.
Parishes, levee districts, and other
political corporations than municipal
ities. do not have charters, or rather
that term is not usually applied to the
source of their existence. Therefore
when the framers of the constitution
wanted to make it clear that the pro
hibition against a special law amend
ing the charter of a corporation should
not applyt," e government of a levee
district or parish, they used the word
"organization" in lieu of "charter."
It is all right to say that the pro
hibition against a special law amend
ing the charter of a corporation should
not apply to municipal corporations,
because municipal corporations have
charters. They could not have said
it should not apply to parishes, be
cause parishes have no charters. They
therefore make it clear that the para
ýraph shall not apply to the organiza
tion (government) of levee districts
end parishes.
If the framers of the constitution
iad meant to except only the organ
ization of new levee districts and new
sarishes, it would have been very
easy to have said so. I believe the ex
!eption relates to all parishes, new or
)ld, and applies to amendment of or
;anization, as well as new organiza
;ion. Amendment of organization is
°e-organization, and re-organization
s included in the term "organization."
The above view may be wrong.
'Organization" may here mean the
:reation or establishment of new par
shes and levee districts; but if such
)e the case, since the parishes have
io charters, there is no prohibition
against a special or -local law -con
!erning the government of a parish.
We must resolve all doubt in favor
>f the constitutionality of a statute.
'he court is of opinion that Act 190
>f 1916 is constitutional, and there
ore that plaintiffs' petition shows no
ause or right of action.
It is therefore ordered, adjudged
and decreed that the exception of no
:ause of action filed by defendants
ierein be maintained, and that plain
:iffs' suit be dismissed at their cost.
Thus done, read and signed in open
:ourt in the parish of Ascension, this
ist day of December, A. D. 1916.
CHAS. T. WORTHAM,
Judge 27th Judicial District.
Cough Medicine for Children.
Mrs. Hugh Cook, Scottsville, N. Y.,
says: "About five years ago when we
were living in Garbutt, N. Y., I doc
tered two of my children suffering
from colds with Chamberlain's Cough
Remedy and found it just as repre
sented in every way. It promptly
checked their coughing and cured
their colds quicker than anything I
ever used." Obtainable everywhere.
-A dv.
Buy it in Donaldsonville.
We concentrate in
our buying on this
special suit and
overcoat. You get
a great selection
ahlways one price
and always guar
anteed quality.
tylepl' 17
Clothes,...,.
"Ths name pce the world over.
No matter how
much or how
little you intend to
pay for your new
clothes you owe it
to yourself to see
STYLEPLUS
before you buy.
One look usually
convinces. Suits and
overcoats--all kinds.
A. Netter
DEPARTMENT STORE
Donaldsonlville, La.
