'THE WEEKLY MESSENGER.
ALL KIN',ºg OF J)R PRINTIN .'rx, . T ICE TO A LI , S UHlSRIPTION $1,00) PER ANNUM
VOLUME XXXI. ST. A ITI  V I LLE, LA., DECEMBER 1G, lH;l6. NUMBER 43
SHRISTMAS GIFTS.
For a gift that will give greatest satisfaction to the recipient you
should select some article of
JEWELRY
You will find in our Holiday stock many things that will be
especially pleasing.
We have appropriate gifts to fit any price
you wish to pay. An examination of our
stock will assist you in the preparation of your
list of Christmas purchases.
FRANK F. FOTI
JE\VELLR, BRIIR;E STIREITI, ST. IMARTINVILLE
GOOD CHRISTMAS MOTTO.
"'eace on, earth, and lgood will
to Ien. " is t1h ('thristmas motto,
and the ('Christmas 'pirit should
ring in our hearts and rind a kind
ly expression in acts and words.
What a jovyful thing, for the world
it would ie if the ('hristmas spirit
of peace tit ll go(xl will could abide
with us all every day of the year.
Andl what a IHeautiful place this
place would Iw toI live it. And it
might he so if each one of us would
resolve in m,ur hearts that peace and
goºol will shouil Is' our miotto
every da,. and that we, individual
ly, would dt, our Ibest to make the
Christmas spirit last all the yeari
rurund.- The Auxiliary.
Farmers' Short Course
January 8-19, 1917
The ei.hthl annual Farmers;
Short Course in Agriculture at the
Louisiana State University will
open elan. 8, 1917, and continue
through .Jan. 19. There will be
eleven days oiectures and de(ion
strationM by eminent agriculturists
in agronomy. animal husbandry.
dairying. poultry, horticulture and
other subjects of interests to the
farmer: demonstrations with im
proved farm machinery and imple
ments: special instruction -in the
control of animal diseases, such as
hog cholera. chasrhn, tulberculosis.
and ii t.ek eradication; explana
ti,,n, andI l ,iservations in road
building; and discussions in which
all may take part.
The l'nivetrsity makes no charge
of any ki1nd for the instruction.
The railroad companies make low
founnl-trip, fares for the benefit of
thuse wbo wish to attend the Short
Course. I oard may be 01ftainedl
in Baton .ol uge at reasonlable rates.
A circular containing full ii
foruation andi the p)rogram in de
tail will IbI issued early in Decem
ISr. Write to 'rmessor W. R.
I) lIson, l),.,n. College of Agricul
ture. L,. S. I., for a copy of it.
1Hi lo tve and his first shave
are t wo epis~Kes in every young
man's career that he never forgets.
BANK NOTICE.
'The Sto'kh.hiders of tlii Hhiack lof St.
Martinlilll arte hereby notili.i that the
a' nllal imeetiing will be I. hll ht thie
Bank, Thullrday Janualllry 9th. Ilt7 I
st six o'clock in tlihe vleiilng to
elect a new Board of 1Jirectors for tlh
year 1917.
ALBERT BIENVENU, (Cashipr.
Dec. 12. 1919.
Mr. Laudry. overseer on St.
John will take charge of the Lady
of the Lake plantation the conling
year. Mr. Todd who managead the
Lady of the Lake this year, going
I on one of the (iodchaux's large
places, near Franklin. Mr. Miala.
ret who mImanaged the Ilancker plan
tation is going on the Fairfax.
near franklin.
-( )ur planters having finishedl
their grinding are all liusy plow
ing their land, getting ready for
Sanother crop. W\ith the advantage
of goxal weathelr, a large niount f
field work was dotle.
-That "'Fine featlheris snake hfin
birds" is accepted as ain urilnues
tionable truth by the leading Inili
tary authorities who are urginrl Ia
more extensi,i\e use of the bluei
uniform.
Sloan's Liniment For Neuralgia Aches
Tlih dull n11111 of Iilraiia iý 'iTirikly
relievid by Sloan'si LiiinteniLith. th t lit
versal remeiody for pain. IE iisy apply:
it quickly penetr .ts without rutlilng
l and sootthes the -,ria nuseleI. I 'lniner
antl moe promptly effectiv. than; inii<
Rv planters or otlttli."ita; dos not stainl
the skin or chdig the pret . For tiff
musnlcs. chronic rhellulllll ial, gout.
I lumbago. sprains and strains it giv.es
quick rellef. Slnani' Liniment repltnes
I the pail and itld~mnllrtion inll insect
bites, btrui. iumplis aid ll ot!.r minor
injuries to clildren Giet a bottle tolay
Sat your drulgist. 25.
t FOUND
One black muill, about i to
2 years old, not branded, niot
-train. Ownr can get his pro
perty by pro\ ing same and tihe
cost made to advertise.
Anatole Provost,
St. Mlartinville, La.
All kinds of H,,lila.v N ,v.i!
. at our store. K. Schwartz.
Masons Elect Officers
At their Illeting held Dec. 9th.,
tihe All.rt Roulseau Lodge No.
301 elected the following officers:
I)r. R. F. 'l'hiºnas, W. M.; G(eo.
Knight, S. \V.: D)r. J. R. )Olivier.
.1. W.; K. Schwartz, Treasurer;
('has. (;utekllnst. Secretary; Scott
Kelso. Chaplain; L M. Fournet,
M. of ('.; E. W. Bienvenu. Tyler;
D. Boucvalt, S. D.; A. D. Long.
J. D.: D. Boucvalt, Scott Kelso,
J. R. O lipvier, Stewarts.
YOU SHOULD FEEL 100 pc TO-DAY
You cannlot meet the day's work eheer
fully futingl bilious. Dull headache,
coated tongue, bad breath are bigun that
indicate your liver is ovee worked or loaf
inig. In either case you need Po-Do-Lax.
Nature's liver regulator, derived from
the lMay-apple. By timlatilating he flow
of bile, Po-llo-l.ax lriakes work easler
fr your liter. andt by its mild laxative
q ality removes the inlpilrities that clog
the intestolhe.. A! all druggists. 50e.
Died.
Sunday night at half past eight
,'clowk. Mr. and Mrs. Jules Mara
ist lost their littlo girl. .!ihe Mar
gunoritte (Odile, aged 5 years. 11
months and 22 days.
"She was huried at half three
This little irl ha, I,,,e, on ,a biiZ
of intense sutffering for Set eral
months, the pmarents took hest, to
New r( I'leans lll i,,,kilt..' ftr th Ist
,e(diet l ,kill to r,.lievtc her -uffl,r
ing. lbut all was in vatin. as il thll ,
continued ti, sut'er until thi, AnglI
where there is no sltteing, hut'
cterlnal peitac'e and ha1111 l pi s.
TOP THAT COUGHS
.\ hatckng tl g tlo h v : tk IIlke t -he wlh le
-¥'t"1ntI, iaIlln, J,1r tIt tILeV ,+all gt
,i ar chest a-h : Int - tlll reel -ore alt
n-mI. |th+Ii,'l, that t',,II at lor," with
Ila liping ,cl-a;ta etal the irritat-dl
IIa luitni.l - .al l h unii-1Ilhtic al;t Inx -
atlllv' qualitii.t kill the gerlms anid break
upll yourlll 'li. lian't l't ta cold linger.
(,et Dir. King'. New Itsccvery to-day at
your druggist. 40c.
r holidiays Shopping at
our store. " :: K Schwartz.
,f I
PRESENTS FOR ALL
Practical gift that will make glad the hearts
of all. Our display will soon be made of all
kinds of rich, beautiful, dependable Holiday
furnishing larger and more varied than
ever before, at popular prices. We extend
you a cordial invitation to look over our stock
DUGHAMP HARDWARE
GOMPANY
All Grades of
TYPEWRITING PAPER
Cut any size desired at this office
SOUTHERN PACIFIC LINES
TO THE
WEST
The Most Romantic Railroad Journey in America
A th il,,s ,l w,,l'es t . j t j hu o lne win lo I ws-: autu,,atic
e,,.ctrie S ffety Sigalns: ( )il Burning Icxomxotives; No Cin
. d,,rs. :N I )ust :t hra 1)innini 1 n(d 4 )lservation Cars.
Std,-,,,r uu tak the mnta .elous auto side trip over the
A l'A IIt'll iE I' AI 1, of A.rizona. en routet to or from ('ALI
FO I A. \W itet fr .r pa,'h,' Trail Bhook.
"**siv;I ' T LIMITEI" -N() EXTRA FARE
From N.-w Ic an.x-, Daily 11 A. M.
tuiCkke't Timte to San Franceico
Houston, San Antonio, El Paso, Tucson, Los
Angeles, San Francisco
UNXECELLI) D)INNING CAR SERVICE
: For IlfoL,,rati,,n. ask any Southern Pacific Agent, or write
H- . H. STAK ,LUM., .I' . H ELLEN,
x ha('x1uu M LA. NW( ORLEANS. LA.
q mmmuu. urn'S When yolt Vtcit New Orleaus atop at
: Laizaire Bienve'nu THE INN HOTEL
S/ ] Oarondelet and Perdido street
S FIRE NEW ORLEANS, LA.
NS .RANC.IEE UN.TIN F. DUKNECHAUD. I'roprieLor.
INSURANCE AGENT VICTUoR OBIN, Manager
S OOD CONPANIES .EUROPEAN PLAN, Rates $1,00 nd up.
" Latest Improvements.
sT. tAlTINVILILE. A ' OENTRALLY LOOATEL
1 Sitwiforurly ooapied by Deasohsd Hotel
