THE COLFAX CHRONICLE
Absorbed the GRANT PARISH DEMOCRAT May 1, 1!9
A Democratic 'ournal, devoted to Local and 6eneral News, Literature, Science, griculture, tc.
VOL. LXI COLFAX, GRANT PARISH, LA., SATURDAY, DECEMBER 16, 1916 NUMBER 9
Where To Buy It
J. W. Duan G0., Ltd. Peoples' Cash Store x fldl 6 AO
LIMITED nXmas8 X a '. 'DO, r
Oin1rai M6rGhilanls Toys Sw tW er Spea r. a-rm
.y * Get SM of It a Ye r Bye
A . Everythng .,
Everything Specialt Agency for Samoset and TRIANE RE
Telephone 4 For the Home Jacobs Candies Wednesdays and Saturdays
STORE Jacobs Candies PATHE PICTURES
W EDELIVER Prices from 10c to $8.50 Mondays and Fridays
L. M. GOINS
J. Q. LONG COLFAX, LOUISIANA L. M. GOINS
The Town That Within a Decade Has Sprang From a Remote River Lauding to City That Weould Pt to Biet Sir Thomas More's ! A
Dealer in Fondest and bloat Cherished Expectations of Utopian Phenomealism. l(?/a
GENERAL ANENT the railway, the good roads era, the advent of the automobile and progressivism in n/amonds
Merchandise A general, ours was one of the many Central Louisiana towns lying nestled within the tawny
arms of the pine belt in awkard contentment. But today! Lo, and the very atmosphere in and ' 'r
around Colfaxr-Grant parish and Central Louisiana seems alive and alert, coping with each new
Frrc D1Illv~rU QUalltU T1611$5 venture, fighting its way to the foremost rank, until now we are being swept along the rapid The Ideal Ch t s if
current of civic pride and commercial activity. Today Colfax ranks among the best towns in the
state, population to the contrary notwithstanding. The advancement is phenomenal - the old
.anitry Pressing "down-in-the-rut " tactics h ve Ion since passed into the annals of the history of "the things Eoomy Store Co.
itr P n that were," and the more matter-of-fact basis assumed, until with this Christmas, nneteen-sx Ecoomy re .
Shop teen, we find ourselves in the midst of happiness and prosperity, and with still brighter stars il- g. y RIgg
H. C. FARALDO, Propr. luminating the commercial horizon of the ensuing year. We can celebrate more heartily this
Cleaning IYuletide than in many past. Our wish is for you a Merry Xmas and a Happy New Year.
Repairing Altering - Telephome No. 20
Steam Pressing J. A. GALLIAN, State Agent for the Warren Piano
CALL FOR and DELIVER
Tameone 84 We take old Pianos in exchange Write me at COLFAX, LA. GrOCeS that are
W. T. LINDER DIX Pr ma J. C. Killingsworth Economy Store Co. J. W. Dman Go60. Lu1.
D. X. MURRELL Dssws In
* Dealr Xmas MEATS - Row.
Fresh Toys o all ainds eOcral Mcriland1c
Meats FRESH Telephone No. 20
Agency for Samoset and IREAD f _
Bicycle Delivery Jacobs Candies That's All Telephone 4
TELEPHONE 125 Prices from 10c to 8.50 TELEPHONE N. 102 Groceries that are Better W E DELIVER
Colfax, La., Points the ay;
What Dare New York Do?
To the T asting Glory of Its Womenfolk There'll Be No
More Shows of That Kind There--Husbands
Yet to Be Heard From
C,.j:,"X ; cf '. O0
Red R.I.'. 20O rniles north
west :f A!,xandcia.. La.
Ry. & Na v. (,. R. R. Steam
boat tratfic. Tel. Exp. Bank
Sawm:ll. Cattle, hogs, hay.
corn, jotatos, p aniuts, fruit
melons, cotton, etc. pr,tlced
Agri:i'' 1 ,·h ,,. From
Ayer'; :Ni . ap . Directory
(Special to the World.)
Co'fax. LI.. DL :'. 7. -Through
S... r .. . . , 'fl . .. . the,
they ', ":, n i ~r In the uni
verse- ,;is town can at last hold
its head up among decent people
and l,rav\ly de:y any criticism
that might be excited by resi
.dents in other towns that have
absolutely not as much reason
to be proud of themselves as Col
fax has to as proud of itself.
It is to the lasting glory of
Colfax that its women residents,
scandalized and made to worry
by the actions of some of the men
who live here when a carnival
company came here recently, ef
fected last night the passage of
a city ordinance prohibiting the
pc'rflr'ul:t',' e he "' of Clrct':se' ,
street carnivals. vaudeville acts
and ministr el entertainments
whose appeal in even the slight
est degree depends on the pres
ence of women in the exhibitions.
The way some of the citizens
of Colfax, particulary some of
the married men, acted when the
last show came here was the last
straw. Men who had acquired
the art of ir;tdom from embar
rassment by attending other
shows where women performers
came out on the stage and kicked
up their leg'. sat in the very first
row at this last shod', which had
a lot of pretty girls in it, and
laughed and nudged each other,
and winked, when the theatrical
women smikd at them and by
other coy ways tried to make be
lieve they thought the men of
Colfax were "regular dev;is"
like the men with high hats who
hang around stage doors in the
city.
The men didn't know they
were only dupes of these women
who do that in every town the
show goes to. How would shows
get along that didn't do that?
It was just plain temptation and
nothing else. Some of the men
spoke to these theatrical women
afterward and they spent money
like drunken sailors ashore after
a long, long time to sea.
The women of Colfax tried to
close thtir eyes to the e;ei(s
and revtls, but they cuul0 not do
it. They remnt mbered what hap
penied to Pit sburgh wnen some
afoua:d with stage wromeii, and
they decided it was time to step
in and keep this happy and pros
perous town, with it's unblem
ished history and honorable tra
ditions, from going to wreck and
ruin, and so, two hundred signed
a petition demanding that the
civic authorities take th~ meas
ure they took to stamp out vice
and corruption.
This ordin:ance may take away
some of the spirit and hiliarity
of life in Colfax, but if that's
the sort of thing that would'
bring people to Colfax, just look
ing for a " good time " and not
helping to develop it, then we,
don't want that type.
Constipation Casese Bad Skin.
A dull and pimply skin is due to a
sluggish bowel movement. Correct it
and clear your complexion with Dr.
King's New Life Pills. This mild laxa
tive taken at bedtime will assure a full
free, non-griping movement in tce
morning. Drive out the dull listless
feeling resulting from overloaded in
testines and a sluggish liver. Gets bot
tle today from your druggist, 25.
Adv. 2.
Just received a car load of hblls and
meal. J. W. Duncan Co.
Special Meeting of the Beard of Su
pervisors of Grant Parish Road
District' Na &
CALL FOR MEETING.
Colfax, La., Dec. 6, 1916.
The Board of Supervisors of Grant
Parishi Road District No. 8, composed
of the police jurors and members of
the scoool board for wards one, six and
seven, and H. L Brian appointedmem.
Ler, are hereby notified to meet at
tho court house in Colfax, La., at noon
on Tue.day, December 12, 1916, to take
such action as may be deemed neces
sary to comply with the law in the mat
ter of holding an election in said dis
trict Nu. 8 to determine the proposi
tion to incur debt and issue bonds.
W. A. BROWNLEE,
I'residtnt Board of Supervisors Road
District Number Eight.
Colfax, La.. Dec. 12, 1916.
The Board of Supervisors of Grant
Parish Road District No. 8 met at the
court house in Colfax. La., at 12 o'clock
noon pursuant to the above published
call The members of this board are
as follows: W. A. Brownlee, police ju
ror for ward one; C. W. Calhoun, police
juror for ward six; G. C. Purvis, police
juror for ward seven; J. I1. McNeely,
school board member for ward one; N.
S. Roberts, 'school board member for
ward six; M. E. Jackson, school board
member for ward seven; and H. L.
Brian, appointed by the police jury.
All the members were present.
The president explained the object
of the meeting to be the changing of
the date of holding the election called
in Road District No. 8, by the ordinance
passed at the previous session of this
Board from January 2, 1917, to such a
date as will permit all voters to regis.
ter as required by a new law on that
subject, and to make such other changes
in said ordinance as will more nearly
conform to the law and the regularity
of such ordinances.
On motion of J. H. McNeely, seec
onded by M. E. Jackson, and unani
mously carried, the ordinance passed
by this Board in session November 21,
1916, to incur debt and issue bonds, was
repealed.
On motiob of J. H. McNeely, second
ed by G. C. Purvis, and unanimously
carried, the ordinance ordering an elec
tion in Grant Parish Rosa District No.
8 on January 2, 1917, was repealed.
On motion of N. S. Roberts, second
C. W. Cahooun and nimously
the following rdinarme was
AN ORDINANCE
Calling a special election for the pur
pose of submitting to the property
taxpayers of Grant Parish Road Dis
trict No. 8, Grant parish, Louisiana,
who are authorized to vote at such
election,;49der the constitution and
lawe of the State of Louisiana, the
following proposition, to-wit:
Whereas it Is tht voluntary will of
the Board of Supervisors of Grant Par
ish Road District No. 8. Grant parish,
La., to call an election of the property
taxpayers of Road District No. 8 eligi
ble to vote in a tax election in the said
road district, for the purpose of sub
mitting to the property taxpayers of
said Road District No. 8, who are au
thonzed to vote at such election under
the constutut.on and laws of the State
of Louisiana, the
PROPOSITION to incur debt and is
sue negotiable bonds therefor of the
said Grant Parish Road District No. 8
in the sum of one hundred and fifty
thousand dollars ($150,000) for the
PURPOSE of constructing and gray
eling the following public roads, to
gether with bridges and other neces
sary equipment, within the limits of
said district, title to which shall vest in
the public, via:
(1) A graveled road from Verda to
Colfax, a distance of twelve miles, at a
cost not to exceed two thousand dollars
($2,000) per mile;
(2) 'The graveling of the Verda-Mont
gomery road, a distance of eight miles,
at a cost not to exceed one thousand
dollars ($1,000) per mile;
(3) The building and graveling of two
spurs to the Jefferson Highway in ward
six, a distance of four miles, at a cost
not to exceed two thousand dollars
($2,000) per mile;
(4) A graveled roadtfrom the Wina
pariah line, near Crews, to the Rapide.
parish line, by way of Montgomery,
Colfax and Bagdad, the same being
known as the Jefferson Highway, a dis
tance of about thirty-three miles;
All of the above roads, except the
Jefferson Highway, to be buillt by this
Board with labor and teams, home la
bor to be given the preference.
The said bonds to run for a period of
thirty years and to bear interest at the
rate of five per.Jent per annam, pay
able semi-annually; and
Whereas Article 281 of the Constitu
tion of 1896, as amended by Act 132 of
the Legislature of 1912 adopted by the
people i November, 1912, ad Act 256
of the Leislature of 1910 as apeaded
by Act2 18 of 1912 and Act 190 of 1916,
declares nte eerd of Saperviusas of
-..I -( .an .f , .~lOl
Grant Parish Road District No, to be
the govemrning authority -
said distriet ma incur debt aa
negotiable bods for sech ppIme
when so authorised at a eletis ee
in said distriet; and
Whereas the assessed valuatim of
taxable property in said Reoad Disteet
No. 8 amounts to two milliea dlaledr
($2,000,000), and the existing bodedd
indebtedness incurred under Article 181
of the constitution of 1808 as amended,
amounting to $10 500 at prset, wmhich,
when added to the pposed indebted
ness, does not exceed the eoastitptieal
limit of ten per centom of said asmsed
valuation; and
Whereas the special ta aeesamry to
be annually levied to extiaguih the
_re mills, which when d o e
special taxes annuall levied nder As
tcle 281 of the Coosttution of u e as
amended, to extinguish the iadebted.
aess incurred under said Article, will
not exceed the costitutlional limit of
ten mills per annum upou the dollar t
assessed valuation of the property of
aid Road District No. 8;. new, ther -
fore,
Section 1
Be it ordained by the Boed of=hpe
visors of Grant Parish Road Z t
No. 8, Grant prish, La.', ii Iewfi
sion convened, That a spcal eat
be sad is hereby ordered to hae I
Road District No. 8 of the parish of
Grant. State of Louisina, .
TURSDAY. March b 1.11.
at which shall be submitted the lol -r.
ing propsition:
PROPOSITION to incur deb and
issue negotiable bonds theureforeft OGsat
Parish Road District No. 8 in the Sa
of one hundred and fifty thomsand d&t
lars ($160,000). said bonds to eam for a
period of thirty years sad to bea inter .
at at the rate of ave per eat per e-.
num, payable semi-oannusy, for the
PURPOSE of construeting sad gpr.
tling the following public reeds, to,
gather with bridges ad other eqmap
..a.t, within the limits of said Rad
District No. , title to whieh d est
in the public, via: A afve4 d r
from Verda to Colfa,x a dlst
twelve miles, at a eost a t exed
$2000 per mile; the gravealag of the
Verda-Mont smery read, a distataI.
eight miles, at a east not to aeat_
N-.r-* ','V '. J#'- ' ·nN-
