if
! 'r
i;
f
i I
. ' V
' 1
A
i i
t
HE Klllfil'rrc (IF PnilinRHC 'RAISED 5n.M IN ONE DAY to promote their Jmrit scheme
i tr-t 1,0 Uf tULUM0U ol MAKING AMERICA DOMINANTLY ROMAN CATH
LIC by means of lullinj: to tictp the ProtrsUot millions through raUinjj an utterly falic ind misleading issue.
hile landerino; the upholder! of our fundamental democracy und promoting the political power cf their L or cert
X fsnrciiirr hurarrky. af Are there not TEN MEN tmnnj the friends of our iplendid free I'rotettant democ
racy who will contribute JS.ftX) each to enaWe the FREE PRESS DEFENSE LEAGUE to quicklv lift the
Roman censorship from the prra an J male imprrvtatU tht imfriUJ cnsti:uti:nal Rua'ar.tfrs enj Lute-arks of Jrte
tTjfifufKftslnrdom of ipeech. pre and auembl?. divorce of church and state, and promotion of our macnih
?nnTirin pWc achool lystexn. AGAINST ALL OF WHICH ROME IS TODAY WAGING
23
totiWitil
10.1011
1HE
Aurora, Mlsooeirl
8
TV TsM
MM
This ts Number 295
NACE
DMMiktr It, lfl
33
THE ROMAN CATHOLIC POLITICAL MACHINE: THE DEADLIEST MENACE TO FREE INSTITUTIONS AND LIBERTY!
THE HEW RE
FORMAT
IIS CONCERNS YOU!
Record of Hon. J. I. Shoppard's Stewardship of the Free Press Defense League; An Appeal to
Patriots That Heralds the Dawn of Another Awakening
Frcft Admission Reveals Attorney's Consternation at Gravity of Sitnalion Awakening
Was the Result of sn Exhaustive Investigation to Determine Whether or Not The
Uamt Ecfitors and the Cause, in His Opinion, Were Deserving of Defense Au
thentic Papal Publications Revealed Beyond Question That the Pope is an
Allegiance Claiming Sovereign and Papal System is Enemy of the Public
School System, Free Speech, AssemHv and in Deadly Opposition to Popular
Sovereignty Splendid Results Obtained by the Free Press Defense
League-Vital Program For the Coming Year
Fort Scott, Kan?., Decern bcr 12, 151.
Dear Friends cf the Patriotic Forres cf America:
TRUST yon will rcni cvrrr worJ of this communis
tion and keep the Mme in miml.
In January, 1915, the owners and editors cf Titr
were indictel in Federal Court it Joplin, Missouri,
on the pretense that they were sending cbsne matter through
the mnil. The allcgivi ob.ccne matter ronitol in the publish
ing f perfectly truthful statements of fart, gathered (mm th
most authoritative sources mnrerning tho unlawful and un
American practices of thoe high in the council cf the Toman
Catholic hierarchy. At the same, time, an indictment wss
pending in the United State District Court at Augusta. Ca.,
against Hon. Thorns I!. Watson upon a similar charg.
The Menace ponp'e rame to employ me in their defene.
Trior to that time, I had known tut little cf the work which
The MrsACR was doing. Like thousands of others cf cur
countrymen, I had len led to believe that The MrXACr, wa
engaged in stirring up religious prejudice and for the sole
purpose of making money for its owners. Therefore, I in
formed Mr. W. Y. Thelps and Mr. Martin Drown who came to
ace me, that hofore I would i.rept employment from them, I
desired to make a full and careful investigation cf their work.
They sent me complete files of the paper and, with the excep
tion of the advertisements, I read everything that had been
published in it from the date of the first isu to the time of
the bringing of the indictment in Federal Court.
Only those who have been constant readers cf The Mcv
ice can realize my amazement at the disclosures which enme
with my perusal of page after page of the paper. I now be
lieved I had been grossly deceived by thoo who sought to de
stroy the effect produced by the publication cf The Mesace.
Therefore I determined to go to the very foundation of tho
papal system and determine for myself its true relation to our
freo democracy. The constant reference in Tiik Mfnace to
Toman Catholic books and other publications made my work
comparatively easy. I had no trouble in procuring from I,V
man Catholic publishing houses, books which coutaiu authori
tative utterances and teachings of the popes, cardinal, the
riiE Mrxacc should U real by eery ron-nmn;t in Amer
ica and wc propo to gite them an unrestricted opportunity to
I found the free institutions of mv country Win? rntiJ!r1 cr cno at .Tonlin r.v i. f,-;t;.., ..h r u
undermined by those fairly proving albgian.e to her whilej finan.Yd the defense in Thos. K. Vat.n' first two trials, bow-
acting under the direction cf a foreign potentate. The liberty
loving people of my country, were- some of them aMcep and
others were too frigbtenel to openly attack the enemy. Patriots
ho raided the waniing cry were annulled, boycotted, th atened,
beaten or murdered.
The Menace had bravely fought to arouse the people,
fciit the hierarchy had been heaping repm.iches and obloquy
upon it so long that many patriots ref.ised longer to sul?onbi
for it. Xow the government had been coerced, by the Kntnin
its, into prosecuting The MrvAcr, Tht Jfffersonian and Wah
son. Majizin. If these friends of the people could he silenced
the papal system wuld have an open and unobstructed road for
making America dnminantly Homan Catholic.
What should I do That was the question for me to
answer. No one else could answer for me. Two roads wcr
open to me. One along which I hud traveli-d many, many
years. One which wan perfectly familiar to me. It led, with
reasonable assurance, to an old age of comparative case and
comfort aiiiong family and friends. The other road, without
doubt, leading to the breaking up of old friendship, to the
sneers and jVr cf those who had formerly professed friend
ship, to social and business ostracism, to bitterness of conflict,
to violence and to years of hard and unremitting toil.; The
choice f paths was not at all difficult. My conscience and my
Ood directed me aright. I sent for Mciwrs. Hrown and l'lidpi
bishops, priests and leading laymen of this church. I procured: and told them of my dit-oeries. 1 told them as I now tell you
copies cf Roman newspapt-rs. magazines and pamphlet. I pro-! that the prosecution of The Menace was only an incident of
cured printed reports cf the preedings of the Knights of J the great papal scheme of making America dominant!)' llommi
Columbus and -ious other Roman Catholic fcecr.-t societies.! Catholic. I told them thut un'css mump creat. uiwerful orL-noi-
I I c
l. A, rf" At- I , .1 i . ...
I alc purchased the great Roman Catholic cncvclojedia. Hav
ing gotten this authoritative literature from every quarter into
my library, I made a careful study of it and, at the end of my
investigation, found confronting me, these indisputable facts:
The Menace of Political Romanism
'I The pope, of Rome is a foreign sovereign, claiming
allegiance in temporal as well as spiritual matters throughout
the world.
"II The papal system of which the pope is the hea l
pposed to, and socks to destroy onr free institutions, to-wit:
1 Our public schools,
2 The free press.
2 Tho right of free speech ttnd public assembly,
4 The right of freedom of thought in matters of con
science. The principle cf separation of church and slate.
"Ill The papal system in America which consista of the
Iloman Catholic cardinals, bishops, priests, the Jesuits, Knights
ef Columbns, Federation of Catholic Svieties, the Ancient
Order cf Hibernians, and other Roman Catholic societies to-
ratioti, working in the oicn, to arouse and defend the pcopb
agaiiift the whemcs, intrigues and persecutions of the pnpu!
system, could 1 effected, then their work and that of Tom
Watson and all the other patriots and the work of all the pa
triotic societies would come to naught. I told them of my
plan for the Free I'ress iVfense league and told them that
if they would use the columns of The Menace to help in
organizing the league, it would finance their defense and I
would give my services to them free. They readily agreed with
me as to the danger which confronts the nation and agreed to
help avert it. I told them that no man standing alone, or
even with the as.-istancc of his immediate friends, could mc-
1 I A It
ccsEiuuy rcsisi itoman persecution. j
The Free Press Defense League
So the Free Tress Defense League wi s chartered uudce
the laws of the State of Kansas. We have enrolled, M.Ono mem
bers, collected, $35,000 in cash and have, at this time, a balance
gether with the Roman Catholic press, seeks to substitute fori0' $3.W n treasury. How wc fought and won The Men
our democratic system of government, the monarchial or papal
system.
. "IV The Roman Catholic laity in the United States of
America is tanght, influenced, and commanded, by those in
authority,- to yield implicit obedience to the teachings of the
popes of Rome and to blindly obey all their orders and decrees.
even though said orders and decrees conflict with the constitu-
4 tion and the laws of the I nited States of America.
"V The .Roman Catholic organization in America is
perniciously active in politics, and although having but few
i votes as compared with the whole body of electors, it manages
ly threats, intimidation, blackmail, and by coercion of the
pre?, to secure an undue proportion of the elective and ap
t pointive offices throughout the country, and these office when
f filled with Roman Catholics are use! to further the plan of
making America dominantly Roman Catholic,
j . ."VI In carrying out the conspiracy to bring the United
i States of America under the complete domination of the pop
f Rome, the Roman Catholic hierarchy, aided by the Roman
Catholic politicians and the Roman Catholic press! has inspired
tha Roman Catholic laity to reort to threat, to intimidation,
to the boycott, to assault and to riot and murder."
T want mil in riev thn situation it tfcn iaJ TTu t
j fu past 50 yeara of age, a country lawyer. Had a comfortable
' home, a splendid law library and was out of debt. Two of my
J children had finished school and were members of my law
firm. We had a business which, if taken care of, would make
us a fair living. Sme or my yery best client were Roman
' Catholics. I was well known and well likd by the people cf
toy town, my county and my state.
Most certainly you will agree with me, that Providenc had
f oeen kind to one whose years from early youth to young man
V'ixd hadbeeti spent as a common laborer in, and about, coal
e assisted with funds in the pn.eeution of those charted with
murdering Rev. Iilark in Marshall, Texas. hai ,11 been pub
lished in the columns of thin paper. In fa. t. we have kept you
advisol pretty fully how wo. hne assisted in the defense of pa
triots ai 1 in the patriot's cau in various parts of the country.
Xo call made in good faith and in a meritorious cae, has ever
been refused by in. We have been prompt to rescind wherever
and whenever wc could, u, the call of patriots when availed by
Rome. We intend to pay the expense of Thos. Watson's defense
at his recent trial where he was finally acquitted a f.w days
ago. Wc also intend to send more money to Texas, soon, to help
the patriots there in paying some of the expense they incurred in
the prosecution in the Waik ca.-o which remains unpaid.
We sent to each memlcr a statement nf the money received
la.-t year and for what it was paid or.t and a similar statement
will be sent to members a to receipts and c xpenditures for this
year.
We hae, ns you are aware, established a Washington
bureau with Judge Nations in charge. He is doing a wonder
ful work. .
In the rarly pari of tl'is year. Mr. Phelps and Mr. Riown,
owners of The Mfkaci:, feeling that the free Pres. iWons'
Leaguo was necessary to the perpetuation of Tin: Menace
and ftrling bIko that The Menace was necessary to ihe jicr
t nation of the Free Press Ifene Ieague, prtHd to sell
Tin: Menace to the League nrd wi Umght it. So now, this
powerful jmjH'r. with its vat epiipnieiit in machinery and
building, complete, is owned by the membership of the Free
Press IVfense Iiaj'iie. Xo profit from the publu at ion of The
Menace or from contributions to the Freo Press Defense
League can nccure to anyone. All receipts, from whatever!
source, after paying actual operating expenses, go into a fund
to carry on the campaign against the attempt of the jopo of
Rome to dominate America. We secured introduction in con
gress of what is known as the Lindbergh Resolution which
demand the investigation cf the things which we charge in
this letter against Rxine.
Wc feel assured that you arc Fati.sficd with what we have
already accomplished but, my friends, the future and its pos
sibilities lie big before us. Wc have but started upon onr cam
paign to free America fmin the danger of Roman oppression.'
Our next activity will be directed against thoo who attempt
to prevent the circulation of Tub Menace. Wc have resolved '.,
that it is going to 1k both safe and respectable to sell The!
Menace on the newstands and on the streets of every city in!
America. When we have finished . ur campaign, no longer will I
papist postmasters and letter carr rs be allowed to coerce and !
intimidate our subscribers apd hope to go freo of punishment. '
The Great Campaign Before Us
The year 1317 will ! a memorable on in American his
tory. During this jenr will be celebrated the W hundredth
anniversary of the hunching cf the Reformation by Martin
Luther, r-cginning with the f.rst cf the year, we expect to
inaugurate a lecture system, nt.sll at first, but with the purpose,
and hope of hating delivered during the year, ono or more pa
triotic lectures in each Protestant church hoi;c in the United
States. We expe. t to rsublish a, Patriotic Reding Circle in
each and every neighborhood. We will push the Lindbergh
Resolution in congress to a hearing just as rapidly as possible.
We have prepared Convent Inspection Lills somewhat similar
to those now in fore in Arkansas and Oeorgia. These we will
have introduced in the various State legislatures during tho
present winter. So you can sec that the year 1017. will be a
busy one for us and likewise for the enemy.
You ran also see very readily that we will need much moio
money than we now have if we are to successfully carry out onr
plans as herein set forth. To the patriots of this country, we
must look for the recesary funds. We are sure you will not
h ave us unarmed to fight apiinst this most powerful ind vinous
enemy. We f.i 1 confident you will willingly and gladly furnish
the means necessary. Some ran contribute liberally, other
can give but little. Most everyone can give something. A
(Juardian of Liberty in Jacksonville, Florida, is contributing
one dollar per month and he is not a man of large means. Ho
made the suggestion that we call for 10,000 volunteers among
the Guardians of Liberty who would each contribute one dollar
per month to cur treasury. We told him we could not do this,
(or to do so, would be showing discrimination among the pa
triotic orders. " We are Uitfgood friends of all the patriotic w
cicties and. while in no way interfering with their work, we are
supplementing and assisting them all to advance and promote
liberty.
1 want to thank the Florida patriot for his suggestion,
however, as it -ct ins we should ho able to find 10.000 volunteers
from among the (luaidiaus, tin- Knights .f Luther, The Orcat
Seeret Order. th' Junior Order of American Mechanics and tho
other patriotic bodies, who would bo willing to contribute one
dollar each, jt month, to our cause, during the year 1917.
Think, my fellow patriots, of the achievements for tho
cause of liberty that can be compassed with such a fund!
Could we not well call the movement. "THL NKW REFOR
MATION"?" Would it not be appropriate to designate thoso
thus contributing, "VOLUNTEERS OF THE NEW REF
ORMATION?" Then let us again thank our southern brother
for his suggestion and act upon it. All patriots are eligible.
FORWARD, THEN. TO VICTORY!
(Cut out eviid maal thu coupon ith your contribution TODAY.)
9B8B8
38B8B9SB8BSBcB9B8B8B
H(
HONORABLE THOS. E. WATSON
ON. THOS. E. WATSON, tit statesnaa. paMicist, butoriaa j oa freif ht cars. Throujh this victory miay lives of railway
and jooraalist, wio was marked far siestrntioa by per
ccotmi Rsb. aad wfca was trianakaatly yiaicateJ ia
tfcc Uaitcw States Federal court m December 1st, Las bekiaJ
kiss a splendid record el bifk service to tar fundamental d.
mocraey aad tat frea citiieasina ( tat as tion.
Ia 1M2, while a member of tht Georgia Iffisl tore, ht dis
tinrw'hed himself as tht aaceiaaramisiag friend aad champita
a! tht attvlt's rights aad af men! aad civic riinteouoess.
Duriai this period, oo of tht most important hills before tht
lefislatort was a teatperaact measure. It required much moral
ctortf t fa a statesman La thoot early days to champioa a mcu
art wtkh woald arosst tht iarplacablo eamiry af tho powerfoj
Enjaer ist crests. Mr. Witsoa became tht champioa of thb tern
enact legislatioB, aad because af his activity aad his ability,
t was selected to close tho treat debate la this bitterly coo
tested battle. Tho measaro was pasted, aad throve
this law whiskey was baulked from fow-fiftks of tht coani"
af Ceorgia,
la 1S91-3, ht was ia onr national Hoast of RepreseuUtires
whoro ho mado a splendid record, becoming oat of tht most
tfeoqaoat aad convincing tribunes of tht people ia tht groat pop
akr Koaaissanco of thtarby nineties. Ono of tht measure la
mads especially his own wu tho Raral Freo Doliyart of Kaila,
aad it wat thrwgh kit maatorly advocacy that tht first aparo
mrmtioa for tho para tot was Toted by Cowgreos. Ho has beca
lastly termed tht "Father af tht American Raral 'osta! Serrica
Ht was aa tkfaeat advocate af tht 8-hov law and led a sac-
workers arc annually saved.
Ia 1896, Mr. Watson was nominated for vice-president by
tht People's tarty aad raa oa the ticket with William J. Bryan,
and ia 1904 he was the presideatial candidate for that party.
Ia the field of letters Mr. Watson occupies a high and ea
viable place, being the author of the most lacid and fascinating
history of Franco to be found ia the English longaage, while his
"Thomas Jefferson" is anqnestionably the ablest biography of
tht anther of the Declaration of Independence that haa been
written. Hit "Life of Napolcoi" and that of Andrew Jackson
art brilhant and important contrihnb'ont to the permanent litera
ture of America. His semi-historical romance "Bethany," is
aa tsqaisitt story of southern life, rich in human interest, aad
presenting a vivid picture of sonthera life after tie war, while
'"Tht Romaa Catholic Hierarchy, the Deadliest Menace to Amer
ican Liberties and Christian Cvifizatioa," is a volume that should
be ia the home of every family.
Ia 190S. Mr. Watson started "Watson's Magazine," and
soma time later,- tht "'Jelfersonian," a weakly paper, wu
fooaded. These periodicals, published at Thomson, Ga., have
keen his chief organs of expression daring recent years.
And this is tha man that the Romaa Catholic hierarchy, .
through tht Americas Federation of Catholic Societies, has been
hoycotticg, persecuting, slaadering, vilWying, caromniab'ng aad
dragging inta tht courts for tht last fire years. This is tht maa
whom the conscience, intelligence, eitriafiia and einr rivbl.
ceasful fight tt compel tht railroads to put automatic couplers j eonsaess of aa American jury vindicated on Dec 1, 1916.
THE FREE PRESS DEFENSE LEAGUE
Ft. Scott, Kansas
I heretiy mske application for membership in the Tree Preas
IVfrnM Ifloue ant I At-tnrt to be eorollftl a a VOLUNTEER IS
TIIK NKW I; EFOR M AT ION. I a(it to pay one dollar per monU
for the purposes of the l-rejrue durm; the ;Tr 191", ami I eneloao
.
S as my firrt parmrnt : I unilerstaio! that in'eoa
eiileration of thin eontrilmtion, t shall receive a receipt for each
parmcBt an! when the total payment for tha year hare hera mal,
I diall recciro a ccrtiflte of memhetehip showing mv total rarmcnle
ami thtt I am a VOLl'NTK.EK OF THF. NEW RE IX) R M AT IO N.
I also understand thit I am to have all the rights and pririlegeo
Ciiarsntccd other members of the organization.
Nme
Street or Itural Route..
ToitoTice .
State......
To those who feel unable to enroll as a Volunteer, wc say,
(even though yon may have contributed before) u;e the coupon
bolow and b as liberal as you can without trM groat a sacrifice.
THE FREE PRESS DEFENSE LEAGUE
Ft. Scott, Kansas
B. O. Fiowra, Frt4rnt. J. I. Snirruo, frcrttary Trrarurtr.
Cilbist O. Natioss, Tec PrttxJmt
I hereby make application for membership in Tho Free Prvaa
Defense Iepie eaJ I enclose I at my contribution for
the ptrpoar of the League.
I understand, that ia consideration of this contribution I am to
receive o receipt aad mcmberaUp card. Also that I am to has
voice ia the management ef the organisation and in the election of
oScert aa provided; in the by-laws of the Lratrue. Make ail drafta,
ehorki ami money orders payable to The Free i'rra Pefent Leafno.
Name
Street or Rural Route,
rortoffire
atkUUi V SB - "'" '
State..
