Joseph
1
BSERVER
Itv ,
VOLUME X.
ST. JOSEPH, MISSOURI, SATURDAY, DECEMBER 1G, 191G
NUMBER 11
TlTF
St.
O
I ..
FT
:' ,
i
6ARDNER
STHPS
FOR REVENUE FIGHT
He Serves Notice on the State
Legislature in No Uncer
tain Terms
DOES NOT PROPOSE
TO BE BLUFFED
After Llsteninn All Afternoon to Ob
jections Made to the Plans He Pro
poses He Takes the Bit In His Teeth
and Tells the Members of the Com.
mission That He Has the Nerve and
Strength to Go Through With the'
Battle Without Their Help or Ad
vice
.?
If It Is in the mind of anyone that
Col. Gardner, governor-elect, has not a
mind and a will of his own, that same!
notion may as well be dismissed at'
once for he has, as the members of
the conference committee summoned
to meet him at St. Louis the other dayj
to consider the question of state taxa-J
tion found to their sorrow for after
he had made a little speech they un
derstood It fully. I
After opposition after opposition
had been shown the governor-elect in
a rather dramatic manner accepted
the defl, for he waded into the com
mission, which he had appointed to
agree upon a program, and served
notice that he was not too timid to
fight for what he believed the state
needed.
"If you're afraid these measures
may be unpopular, throw the odium
on Gardner," he declared. "My
shoulders aro broad enough to carry
it and I've got the nerve to go through
with this fight."
Colonel Gardner also said that he
didn't propose to run from opposition.
Rejected His Suggestions . '
The episode or, it may be more ac
curately termed the governor-elect's
opening gun of the new administra
tion came shortly before the confer
ence adjourned. Colonel Gardner had
submitted Individual suggestions to
the commission for obtaining new
revenue for the state. The commis
sion, on which were several senators
and members of the legislature, ac
cepted a few of these. Then the oppo
sition began to grow, and proposition
after proposition was rejected.
As each proposition came up, dif
ferent members of the commission
would say:
"Now, if we recommend this, it'll
just mean more opposition. We're
stepping on, bo many toes we're
antagonizing so many interests that
they'll unite and beat the whole pro
gram." It was the same old tax story that
Missouri always has b'een up against.
The commission was in favor of more
revenue if it could come from some-
, one who couldn't or wouldn't kick,
iyrhe country members thought the
cities should bear the burden; the city
members believed the country wasn't
carrying Its share and should carry
more.
Ridiculed Poll Tax
Colonel Gardner sat silently by(
while they tore his suggestions to
pieces except for two big exceptions,
the proposed corporation tax and a
graduated inheritance tax. Finally the
suggestion he had made for a state
poll tax on every man came up. There
bad been a disposition to treat some
of the recommendations rather lightly.
On this members of the commission
were open in their jocular remarks.
"You won't get a man who ever ex
pects to run for office to vote for this
one," one member said.
There was a call for those who fa
vored the proposal. Only one member (
ot the commission, Representative
Drake Watson of Halls county, stood
up. Then Gardner went to "the mat"
with the commission.
The State's Needs First
i " "I made these proposals simply as
f suggestions," ho said. "They repre
sented possibly ways of raising money.
I've sat here all afternoon hearing why
this and that won't do. But I never
heard anyone suggest any better, or,
for that matter, any other means of
raising money at all. I tion't ask you
to take my proposals. But I do insist
that we must adopt some recommenda
tions as to revenue measures.
"I've heard all afternoon from per
son after person that If wo adopted
this or that recommendation we'll
antagonize this set or that; that
they'll unite and brat our program. .
"1 want to Hay I don't nssumc any
men or any Interests are going to
sttuid In the way of the progress of
this state. Missouri's too big.
"Where are you going to get the
money? You all agree that Missouri
must have more revenue. Yet there la
objection to nearly every proposed
form of obtaining It. You've agreed
to bills that If adopted will raise about
214 million dollars a year. The stnte
needs J million dollars at least. We've
got to have It.
Ready to Shoulder Burden
"It's all right to talk of doing things
for Missouri, of improving our peniten
tiary, of upbuilding our schools, of
building roads, of making needed Im
provements in our eleemosynary Insti
tutions. Hut being for those things
doesn't get anywhere if you won't pro
vide the means to do them with.
"1 know it's ii poor proposition for
a candidate for office to propose new
taxes. It's not popular. Friends have
told me, "Gardner, you'll ruin your
self.'
(Continued on Page Eight)
POURED OVER HIM
Judge Lemuel .McDonald .Has .Now
Lost His Republicanism Through
the Rite of Baptism
The Telegraph of Princeton tells
(lie champion wager story of the cam
paign, saying that the baptizing of
Judge Lebuel McDonald by Frank
Dlckerson occurred last Saturday
afternoon at the public well at Ra-
anna according to schedule. Prior
to election, these two old veterans of
the Civil war, made an deletion
wager, or agreement, whereby the
loser was to be bafitlzed by the win
ner Into his political party. A com
mittee of old veterans was appointed
to arrange the details. Two members
of this committee, F. J. Cousins and
Hiram Pickett, together with the high
contracting- parties, met at Mr. Cous
ins' residence Saturday afternoon and
together they marched to the public
well, bearing idoft 'Old Glory.' A
large crowd had assembled there to
witness the ceremon) and to these
Mr. Dickerson spoke stating that Mr.
McDonald would make the proper
"con'esslon" before being poured.
Mr. McDonald made a short speech
in which he stated their agreement
and expressed his readiness to comply
with his part of It. He also gave it
as his opinion that at the end of four
more years the Republican party
would be reunited and that at that
time be predicted that Judges Hughes
would be triumphantly elected. He
also added that he hoped the Repuh
licans would remain in power for the
next hundred years. At the close ot
his speech the committee pumped
three gallons of water in a bucket and
handed it to Mr. Dlckerson, who ad
ministered the ceremony by slowly
pouring the contents of the bucket
on the head of the victim, whom he
cblded tor bis Republicanism and bap
tized him In the faith of Woodrow
Wilson and the Democratic party.
It was all the result of a novel elec
tion wager, the participants being the
best of friends and the best of good
will prevailed throughout the cere
mony.
COST SOME MONEY
The G. O. P. Campaign Committee Did
Not Stint Matters When It Came
to Campaign Funds
The report of the Republican state
committee which was filed with the
recorder of deods at St. Louis this
week, discloses that that august body
was not above spending money in the
last campaign despite their cry of God
and morality. It was also further
shown by this statement that the com
mittee spent more than It collected,
the receipts being placed at 184,000
with expenditures ot $89,000. As
showing how fat salaries were paid
and money "poured out" It might be
stated that among the listed expenses
were:
T. W. Hukerejdc, chairman state
committee, salary of $100 a week, be
ginning September 16; John E. Swan
ger, manager speakers bureau, salary
of $150 a week, beginning September
16; $300 to a local hotel to pay tha
expenses of the visit of Charles E.
Hughes, presidential nominee to St
Louis, .and $40 for a luncheon In honor
of Mrs. Hughes at the Country club.
Judge Henry Lamm who would like
to have defeated Gardner also filed his
expense account at Sedalta tbo same
day. He swore that his total expendi
ture In the primary and election cam
paign was but $1,165.55.
M THE REPUBLICANS TRIED
TO STEAL THE STATE OF
It Was a Bold Attempt But It Failed
Because the Democrats Were
Very
The Democratic State Committee Tells
the Rotten Story in the Fol
lowing Address
"To the Voters of the State ot Missouri:
"Facts hae come to light, since
election day, which demonstrate be
yond any doubt that there was an in
sidious and wide spread attempt on
the. part of some of the Republican
state organizations to commit u series
of illegal acts leading up to the recent
general election, with the object of
casting a lot of fraudulent votes and
causing to be miscounted votes legally
cast.
"This concerted action on the part
of some of the Republican managers
was of such nature and or such vide
extent that it jeopardized the lawful
will of the people of this state as ex
pressed by their ballots.
"So wrongful was this attempt and
so many instances of its existent?
have come to light that we feel it is
due to the people of the state of Mis
souri that these acts should be made
public and that they be put on their
guard in the future against any such
wilfull, malicious and wrongful con
duct on the part of a few unscrupu
lous men. With that object in view
this statement Is made and is given to
the public.
A Conspiracy Existed
"There existed a conspiracy to
register and to vote, in the city of St
Louis alone, thousands of negroes
brought here from places outside of
the State of Missouri only a short
time before registration day. They
weie induced to register, as required
by the law in the City of St. Louis,
before they could vote. To support
that allegation we hereto append a
few names copied from a report made
by order of the Chief of Folice of the
City of St. Ixmls and now on file in his
office. This report Is the result of a
canvass that was made in order to
determine whether or not there ex
isted any fraud in registration and
was made before election day. It con
tains nearly a thousand names of per
sons not entitled to vote for various
reasons specified In the report.
These names are just a few picked out
simply as giving substantial evidence
of the charge made and to point to
particular cases and individuals. The
report in part reads as follows:
"Ward 16, Precinct 4 Louis Benlon,
424 South Garrison avenue. Only six
months in city.
"Ward 23, Precinct 8 Wm. L.
Chandler, 4033 West Dell place. In
the city only eight months from
Frankford, Ind.
"Ward 23, Precinct 8 Robert
Howell, 4068 West Hell place. Here
only six months from the south.
"Precinct 9 William Dradley, 4048
Cook avenue. Here only four months
from Arkansas.
"Ward 17, Precinct 15 Charles
Prlchard, 3500 Lawton avenue. Only
In city three months.
Further Proof Submitted
"To further substantiate the charge,
attention Is called to the fact that an
election was held In tho City of St.
Louis during the early months of 1916
at which the question of negro segre
gation was to be voted upon. This
was a question of peculiar Import to
the negro race. A special registration
was held, prior to the election, in
order that all who were not regularly
on tho books and who were entitled
to be registered might be so register
ed. After that registration it developed
that there was nearly, but not quite,
nine thousand negroes registered as
voters. After the rumors of negro
colonization had spread through tbo
country, and after the reports had
been dignified by comment thereon by
the Attorney General of the United
States, and after a hurried and
cursory Investigation at the hands of
the Department of Justice, and after
tho registration In the City of St.
Louis preceding the recent general
election, there appeared nearly four
KM
Vigilant
teen thousand negroes registered; an
increase of nearly four thousand InJ 0n Wednesday night he retired as'0- 2 for the Insane wi" Dasa under
the city of St. Louis alone. I ugUH, anU y mornIng arose nt the management and control of Dr.
Criminals Were Voted , his regular arising time. As he step-1 E- H- BulIock- formerly of this city,
"Besides registration of negroes re- ped away from his couch he suddenly! where he was a wel1 K Practicing
cently moved here from the south' fell to the iloor dead. Apoplexy had ph'slcian' and of ,ate of MiIan Mo
there was an attempt to register and! claimed him as its victim. (where he made a success of his pro-
ote many thousands ot negroes who The deceased was born in New
had been deprived of their right to Market, that county. May 23, 1S61. and
vote because of conviction of certain all of his life has been spent in Platte
offenses specified by law. Quotlngi county. He was educated in the pub
from this same police report, there nc schools and graduated from Beth
are, hereto, appended the names of !iny college. On his return from col
a few of many individuals taken from' ieKe he associated himself in the
that report:
"Ward 22. Precinct 14-Abe Shelton,
4264 Kennerly avenue Served term
of six months in city jail on charge of
attempted robbery; also term in city
workhouse of six months for murder
in second degree.
"Ward IC. Precinct 1 James Buck-
er, 2739 Papln street. Served one
year in city workhouse on charge of "am nrt his daughter, Catherine, all know watched his career-were con
burglary second degree and larceny. of whom reside at Platte City. He was v,nced o( hu merlt and placed h,m ,n
"Ward 7. Precinct 10-Charles Post- a thirty-second degree Mason and like charge wUholU h,g 80,lcltatlon and
ley (alias Priestly). 141 i Papin street, the late A. P. Clayton of this city was' .,... hls know.edce of their inten-
Sered two terms In penitentiary in
Jolftt. 111.
Democrats Had Lists
Entirely separate and distinct from.110IIlt? -uonuay at .' p. m. and will be
the names appearing on the police re-Unt!er the auspices of the Masonic
poit there was made at the request of Grand Lodge of Missouri. A large
the Democratic State Committee a list "umber of St. Joseph people will at
of persons not entitled to vote because tend. On tin? afternoon of the fun
they had been convicted of certain eral business houses will close and
crimes. The names of the persons,! business will be suspended in Platte
the offenses with which they were' City.
charged, the fact that they were With the passing of "Cam" Wells
found guilty and the sentence with' Missouri loses a citizen whom it can
which they were punished, together; HI spare the business world a man
with the date of the sentence, were who was a power in it and his family
taken from the records of the courts land friends one whose departure tor
of the State of Missouri. On election, tures to breaking their heartstrings,
day these men were challenged as'
they appeared to vote and through the1
efforts of the Democratic State Com-!
mlttee some thousands of these ille-
gaily registered persons were pre- Mayor House of Topeka Says Police
xented from casting their fraudulent women Only Cause Trouble
votes. I and Flirt
"With further regard to the City of .
St. Louis that same police report
shows that there was a general and!
wholesale altemnt nnde to ropUfrr I .. . complimentary wings saia OI me.
wholesale attempt made to re8l8ttr; but little comfort from the remarks of Ther exDresslons of confidence in mv
negroes and to have them vote from Mav0r House of Toneka who Mke' V, m7 ,
houses where the did not live Kv. L 7 nouseoi topeica wno spoKe ability, which proves to me conclusive
nouses wnere tnej aid not live, Kv. before the Commerce Club at its iv that these naners de-rire to aiwUt
tracts from that report are hereto ap- luncheon Wedneday. When he as- J n the state h2tal ihTflt
pended in order to give substantial1 sumed offlce as Tol)eka.s cnlt .' ,,,?,,.,,?,?". , J f 1
and oarticular testimony to the truth iopeicas cniet exe- cient institution It is Intended and
oT the above char trutl,cutlvo two years ago almost his first 8hould be, are very much appreciated
? , n" Kvv. x, 'cW wM to dismiss the two by me.
" ",
2741 Clark avenue. Not known at
thls aflilrtiG Infnriniittnn itK'Ati Kv
William Wright, same number. There' "Tho duly of a offlcer is t0
is a Thont Moore, residing at 2747prMerve 0rder and prot'ct ProPeV'
Clark avenue.
"Z. W. Campbell, 2640 Market place.
Not known at this address. Informa
tion given by Mrs. Mitchell, same num
ber, and Mertle Davis, 2640a Market
place.
"Ward 17, Precinct 7 George Jen
nings, 2502 Pise street. No one ot
that name living there. Information
given by Mrs. Mary Lewis, same ad
dress. "Ward 17, Precinct 9 M. Zerzer,
3022 Lucas avenue. No one of that
name living there. Information given
by Mrs. Laura Oaks, same address.
"Ward 17, Precinct 13 M. J. Boss,
3415 Pine street. Does not live there.
Information given by Mrs. Anna Par
ker, same address.
"Ward 17. Precinct 15 Charles Wil
liams, 3500 Lawton avenue. Does not
live there. Information by Florence
Barbee, same address.
"Ward 16, Precinct 1 George Clark,
2830 Bernard street. Does not live
there. Information given by Mrs.
Spotser, samo address.
"Ward 16, Precinct 6 J. McClary,
2153 Clark avenue. No such address;
and hundreds more similar instances.
Also Imported Votes
"Besides these attempts, there were
(Continued on Page Eight)
'CAM" WELLS NO MORE
A Man Whom the Whole Platte Pur
chase Will Miss Ic Gathered
to His Fathers
" 'Cam' Wells is dead" was the
brief mesaco telephoned to St. Jo
seph from Platte City early Thursday
morning.
The message was brief, but it was
full of sorrow to those who received
it and they were many tor before
noon it had reached all portions of St.
Joseph and all mourned; for Henry
Campbell Wells, lovingly known to his
thousands of friends as "Cam," was
gone to rest eternal gathered to the
bosom of his fathers
For some months Mr. Wells had
been In ill health, and from the first
his friends feared the result and
J their fears were well founded. For
several das past he had been feeling
1 better and on the occasion of the Mis
i souri-Kansas annual football game
went to Lawrence and attended it, ac-
companied by a physician and a
nurse.
banking business with his father, Wil
Hani C Wells and in 1887 the present
Wells Ranking Co. was organized of ,
which his brother. William Strother.
Wells, is now president and of which
he v.ae cashier which is one of the
leading country banks of the state, j
Je U survived by his wife to whom
he was married in 1891, his son W11-'
known among the Masonic fraternity
.all qyer(the,Unipn.
The funeral will occur from his late
ARE SOME JOKE
Tho.e asnlrants for the ioh of
J" 'J f " J
Women on the police force of that city.
he says.
Mr. House said to a reporter. "Women
can do neither of these things. Give
a woman a star and police authority
and she will start out causing trouble
in her neighborhood. 1 found that the
principal activity of our policewomen
was to stand on street corners, lure
men into 'mashing,' and then arrest
them for It. Women are not fitted for
police work. As officers they are a
joke.
"The Topeka policewomen did some
welfare work and were useful In this
field. But Topeka has two salaried
welfare workers, and it does not re
quire police authority to do the
work."
DAWSON FOR COMMISSIONER
A great many St. Joseph people,
especially the legal portion of the
community, Is acquainted with Hon
John M. Dawson of Kahoka who was
assistant attorney-general under Gov
Majors. Dawson Is now a candidate
for commissioner of the Missouri su
preme court, the vacancy In that body
coming through the election of Judgo
Fred L. Williams to the supreme
court. Mr. Dawson Is one ot the able
men of the state and has a very strong
following, which will do all possible
for him In his fight for the honor.
jWILL TAKE CHARGE
ON NEXT MONDAY
At That Time State Hospital
No. 2 Will Go Under Man
agement of Dr. Bullock
WILL GIVE IT HIS
SOLE ATTENTION
Safety First Will Be His Slogan and
His Watchword and He Will See to
It That the Eighteen Hundred Un
fortunates Placed in His Charge
Have All the Attention That They
Should Have and the Latest and
Most Improved Methods for Their
Care and Comfort Are Observed
On Monday morning State Hospital
tession anu ot tne otner pursuits ne
followed as well. Dr. Bullock enjoys
the distinction of doing all things that
he undertakes well, and this is the
keynote to the great success that he
has made in life for he is a success-
i ful man In every respect.
Dr. Bullock started out in life with
! n rrr1tr vcfainh ortnlH Tint Vtoln Hnr
make nim aucceednamelv t0 do a
thal he attempted welland he has
.,... tVl , , ...
,..... w,ov u, ,.u ,w-
more than well. The reason that he
Is now at the head of this great lnsti-
tutlon one of the greatest of Its kind
in Mlgsour and for
he WPSt'Is becaus
that matter in
iinM wpm w nprnimp Tipnnip wnn
tlon. That he will make good In his
,ew and jmptfrjf tHVosition goes with-
out saying for he neither knows how
to spell or pronounce the word fall.
How He Will Work
When he assumes charge of that
great hospital Monday morning he will
go about bis new duties as he has
gone about the previous tasks that he
has so successfully accomplished
with method and precision and judg
ment. What he will do will be done
well and the unfortunates will be the
gainers thereby. When asked as to
his contemplated intentions in the
management of that institution yes
terday, Dr. Bullock said:
"I do not take the management un
til Dec. 18 and am not in position to
outline any particular work to be
done. I think that Dr. Whittington
has done much good work for the In
stitution. "Allow me to thank the press
throughout the state and especially of
l"'u"hUUUU """ """ """'J
northwest Missouri for the very
"Safety first, will be my slogan.
Safety First, for the seventeen hun-
dred and fifty fortunate
bo w he in my care. The state
legislature will be asked to provide
funds to render absolute safety
against loss of any human life by fire,
The greatest compliment ever paid
me, although having received many
since my appointment, was when a
noted lecturer said of me, 'I know Dr.
Bullock believes the most precious
thing In an tho world is a human
life.'
The Price of Service
"The price of service at the hospi
tal will be efficiency. I will be the
friend of every person In tho institu
tion, be they patient or employe, and
will try and make their stay at the In
stitution as pleasant as possible.
"Each employe wlU be held ac
countable for that which his task Is
expected to accomplish.
"I did not ask for the position. The
request to take It, came as a surprise
to me. The board of managers chose
me by a unanimous vote. In accept
ing the position I expect to give the
state the best there is in me.
"Should those higher than I In au
thority, at any time, feel that they
have a man who can and will give to
the state better and more loyal atten
tion than I have been giving, I shall
be pleased to extend to such person
'
(Continued on Page Eight)
