THE BARME DAILY TIMES
I'KICK, OXK CF
HAHKK. VKKMOXT. SATUHDAV. DKCKMHKH 10, 1910.
VOL. XX NO. 233.
HARD BLOW DEALT
GERMANS WHO LOST
NEARLY 9,000 MEN
French. Delivered Great Of
fensive Stroke over a Six
Mile Front in Verdun Re
gion and Drove the Ger
mans Back for a Distance
of Two Miles in Some
Places
BERLIN OFFICIALLY
ADMITS REVERSE
But Says That the German
Troops Advanced South
east of Zillcbeke to the
Second British Line, the
Defenders of Which Broke
and Fled
Momentarily the western front is
again the center of attention, with the
French victory at Verdun occupying tho
chief place in the war news. General
Nivelle's stroke has brought the French
back, according to their reports, nearly
to the line they occupied when the Ger
mans began their great drive for Verdun
last year.
To-day's dispatches report that the
German crown prince's troops lost nearly
9,000 men in prisoners and 80 guns dur
ing the French advance, which was effect
ed to a depth of approximately two miles
along a six-mile front.
Just what consequences are to result
from the capture of Buzeu, the Rumanian
railroad center, by Von Mackensen, re
ported yesterday, have not definitely de
veloped. Apparently the Buzeu river line
near the southern border of Moldavia is
Btill unbroken. .
, Berlin, by wireless, Dec. 16. The Teu
tonic forces in Rumania are continuing
their advance all along the front, the
war office announces. Two thousand
more prisoners were taken. In Dobrudja
the Russians have retired.
Violent artillery fighting occurred in
Belgium yesterday, the statement says.
Southeast of Zillebeke, the German
troops advanced to the second British
line, whose defenders, the statement
savs, fled.
On the Verdun front the French drove
the Germans from their advanced posi
tions, east of the Meuse.
Talis, via London, Dec. 16. The
French troops in an advance yesterday
north of Douauruont and between the
Meuse and Woevre rivers captured more
than 7,500 prisoners and several heavy
guns, according to the French official
communication issued last evening. The
advance wag over a front of 10 kilomet
ers and to a depth of three kilometers.
The statement says:
"After several days of artillery prep
aration we attacked the enemy north of
DoiiHumont, between the Meuse and the
Wocvre, on a front of more than 10 kilo
meters. The attack started at 10 o'clock.
"The enemy's front broke down every
where to a depth of about three kilo
meters. "Besides numerous trenches we cap
tured the villages of Vaoherauyille and
Louvemont, the farms of Chambrettes
and the fortified works of Hardaumont
and Besonvaux.
"We have taken a great many prison
ers whose exact number has not yet been
determined. Seven thousand five hun
dred of them, including 200 officers, al
ready have been passed through our com
mandant's posts.
"We have taken or destroyed numer
ous pieces of heavy and field artillery
and also a considerable quantity of ma
terial. "Notwithstanding unfavorable weather
conditions our aviators took a brilltent
part in the fighting. Our losses are
slight."
Belgian communication:
"An artillery battle, which started the
night of Dec. 14-15 has continued violent
ly in the region of Steenstraete and far
ther north. Belgian guns of all calibres
and trench artillery have spiritedly tak
en to task the enemy's batteries."
ALLIES NOT READY
TO MAKE RESPONSE
Besides, Lloyd-George May Not Be Able
to Appear Before House of Com
mons Next Tuesday.
London, Dee. In. It appeared doubtful
to-day whether Lloyd-George would be
able to go before the Houe of Commons
on Tuesday. He is making steady prog
res toward recovery, but it is considered
unlikely that hi physicians will allow
him to speak next week, as his voice is
affected. At any rate, it is not expected
that the government at that time will be
in a position to make a statement re
garding the German peace proposals.
MAIN LINE BLOCKED
By Derailing of Train Loaded with Coal
Cars.
Worcester, Ma., Dec. 16. The main
line of the Boston i .Albany railroad was
blocked to-day hy the derailing of a
train loaded with rnal ear, due to the
breakin? of a tnnk on one of the ears.
Through train detoured over other
ad.
EXTRA SESSION TALK.
Threat Made if Railroad Bills of Wilson
are Not Passed.
Washington, D. C, Dec. Ill-Senator
Xewlanda. chairman of the Senate inter
state commerce committee and on the
joint congressional committee investigat
ing railroad problems, announced in a
statement last night that if Congress
could not find time at this session to
pas railroad bills suggested by the
president, the subject should be dealt
with at an extra session of Congress.
The Nevada senator also stated that
iint invest H'litiiiL' committee had
determined to ask Congress to extend its
... ......... t- A U..
life until January, nun, to k ior no-
retention on the commission oi neprcscn
tative Cullop of Indiana, who leaves Con
gress March 4, and to seek an increase
in the appropriation for expenses from'
$24,000 to $40,000.
The joint committee's decision to ask
a year's extension was reached at the
executive meeting late yesterday and the
vice-chairman was directf'd to introduce
the necessary resolution in House at
owe. It has been determined since hear
ings must bo held by the Senate and
House commerce committee on the pres
ident's program and since the time of the
present session is so limited it would be
impracticable to attempt to hold further
hearings at this time in the general rail
road inq iiry. R'-ferring in his state
ment to the pending railroad bills which
provide for investigation of railroad dis
putes and would empower the president
to take over the railroad, telephone and
telegraph lines in time of military necea
sitv, Senator Xewland declared they
should be acted on as soon as possible.
WHEAT RECOVERS
FROM FIRST SHOCK
AND MOUNTS HIGH
First Sales in, the Chicago Pit To-day
Showed a Jump of 8 Cents on July
Delivery on Report of Lukewarmers
to the Peace Offer.
Chicago, Dec. 18. Wheat leaped up
ward to-day in response to the Russian
d u ma's rejection of peace terms and be
cause of the reports that the United
States would not intervene at present.
The first sales showed an advance of as
much as eight 'and one-quarter cents a
bushel, July jumping to $1.42 as against
$1.33 at yesterday's finish.
LUMBER GOING UP.
And There is Expected to Be Large Pro
duction in Vermont.
Burlington, Dec. 16. The -amount of
lumber cut in Vermont this winter will
be much larger than in several years, ac
cording to the managers i two large
lumber companies in this city. This, it
is believed, will be brought about by the
steadily increasing prices of lumber, hard
wood flooring, white pine and spruce hav
ing already advanced and other grades
being expected to advance in price in the
spring.
The local lumber companies are sun
laboring under the difficulty of securing
raw material from Canada, this having
been brought about by the car embargo.
It is expected that the cut this win
ter will include both hard and soft wood
and that the lumber will be used large
ly at home. Shipments have been great
ly hampered by the car embargo.
FRANKLIN COUNTY TEACHERS
Were Addressed By State Commissioner
Hillegas.
St. Albans, Dee. 16. About 200 teach
ers attended the 10th annual meeting of
the Franklin Teachers' association held
here yesterday at the academy building.
Amoiig the speakers were Milo B. Hille
gas, state commissioner of education, and
S. C. R. C. Reynolds of the state depart
ment of education.
These officers were elected: President,
Supt. H. E. Hunt of Swanton; vice-president,
Miss Ida Sykes of Enosburg Falls;
secretary,' Miss Ellen H. Wagner of Rich
ford; treasurer, Miss Josie M. Martin of
Montgomery; executive committee, Miss
Alura X. Barnes of St. Albans, chairman.
The time and place of the next meeting
were left with the executive committee.
WATER POWER RIGHTS SOLD.
International Paper Co. to Produce Pow
er at Milton.
Burlington, Dec. 16. The water power
rights on the Lamoille river at Milton, j
formerly owned by II. O. Clark,-have
been purchased by the International Pa
per company of New York. The new
owners announce that they will sell elec- j
trie power at a low rate to any indus
tries which locate there.
TELEPHONE BONUS.
The Total Distribution Will Amount to
$6,000,000.
Vor Virl- 1W. 16. An extra cash
payment exceeding $6,000,000 will be dis
tributed to certain classes of employes
In i l. mmnanie enmnrisinff the Bell tel
ephone system to aid them in meeting
the present aDnormai living communis,
.... .r.,rw-.H We last nieht bv The
odore X. Vail, president of the company.
Tt, narments. it was stated, will be
equivalent to two or three weeks sal
ary, in proportion to lengtns ot service.
BULL MOOSE "REINCARNATION."
Agreed oa at Conference of Progressives
from Several States.
Xew York, Dee. 16. "Reincarnation"
of the Progressive party with "a new
sense of party independence haed on
"tbe new liberal spirit" was agreed on
at a conference of prominent lrogre
sives from several states here yesterday.
GERMANY TURNS
TO AMERICA ON
PEAGEPROFFER
Ambassador Von BernstoriT
Called upon Secretary of
State Lansing to Learn
Attitude of United States
Concerning the Proposals
of Germany
ALSO TO DISCUSS
PEACE IN GENERAL
He Also Was Prepared to
Give Any Information De
sired by Lansing Presi
dent Wilson Is Said to
Have Decided Not to Send
Accompanying Note
Washington, D. C, Deo. 16 Count Von
Bernstorff, the German ambassador, con
ferred with Secretary of State lousing
to-day, seekii information of the at
titude of the United States toward the
peace proposals of the central powers,
to discuss the general subject of peace
from this government's viewpoint and
to give any information that Lansing
might desire on the attitude of the Her
man government.
NO ACCOMPANYING NOTE.
Will Be Sent By Pres. Wilson with Ger
man Peace Offer.
Washington, 1). C, Dec. 16. President
Wilson has decided that the notes of the
central powers proposing a discussion of
peace to the entente allies will be sent
forward by the American government
acting as intermediary without any ac
companying mediation offer of its own.
He has not determined whether any ac
tion in behalf of peace will be taken
later by the United States on its own
account.
It was stated that the delay in for
warding the notes to the entente capi
tals was due to the fact that the mes
sages received from iermany, Austria
Hungary and Turkey identical in sub
stance differed slightly in phraseology as
a result of different translations.
The fact that the cabinet meeting yes
terday lasted more than three hours and
was the most prolonged of the year, at
tracted profound attention in official cir
cles and led to all sorts of speculation.
It was explained authoritatively later,
however, that the meeting was devoted
largely to consideration of departmental
matters, and had been prolonged because
it was the first time since the campaign
that all the members had been present.
In other quarters than the White
House it was learned that some word
indicating Switzerland's action in hand
ing the German note to Italy without
comment as announced in the Italian
Parliament by Minister Sonnino, was
noted here with interest.
Definite indication of the attitude of
the entente allies is expected in the
speech of David Lloyd-George, the Brit
ish prime minister, next Tuesday.
Meanwhile the authorized statement of
the German embassy-here that part dis
armament will be one of the subjects
taken up at any peace conference is be
ing discussed generally in official and
diplomatic circles, with speculation as
to how far in this direction Germany
might be willing to go.
RUSSIAN DUMA
DECLINES PEACE
Reported to Have Passed the Resolution
Unanimously Calls German Proffer
a Proof of Weakness.
London, Dec. 16. A despatch to Ren
ter's Telegram company from Petrograd
says:
"The Duma has unanimously passed a
resolution against the acceptance of the
German peace proposals, after a spirited
speech by the minister of foreign af
fairs." The text of the resolution, as received
here, follows:
"The Duma, having heard the state
ment by the minister of foreign affairs,
unanimously favors a categorical refusal
bv the allied governments to enter, un
der present conditions, into any peace
negotiations whatever.
"It considers that the (rcrman propos
als are nothing more than fresh proof of ,
the weakness of the enemy and a hypo- !
.i-itu-al mrt f mm which flip enemv CX-!
pects no real success, but by which it
Keeks to throw upon others the respon
sibility for the war and for what hap
pened during it, and to exculpate itself
before public opinion in Germany.
"The Duma considers that a premature
peace would not only be a brief period
of calm, but would involve the danger of
another bloody war and a renewal of
the deplorable sacrifh-e by the people. It
considers that a lasting peace will Im
possible only after a decisive victory over
the military power of the enemy and
after definite renunciation by Germany
of the aspiration which renders her re
sponsible for the world war and for the
horrors bv which it has been accompa
nied." Two More Ships Sunk.
London. Dec. 16. Lloyd announce
that the Xorwegian fteamer Bra.-k and
the Swedish steamer Vala are sunk.
The crews were landed.
MAY DISCONTINUE
RANDOLPH "AGGIE"
Trustees Consider the Proposal in Their
Annual Report Just Made
Public, .
Randolph, lee. 16. The question of
what course the state of Vermont should
pursue in regard to agricultural educa
tion may well become a prime topic for
legislative debate as the result of the re
port of the trustee of the state school
of agriculture, just made public. The
trustees, Commissioner Ellier S. Brig
ham, Joseph L. Hills. T. X. Vail, A. M.
Vaughan and George T. Chaffee, in effect
ask the legislature to determine on a
definite policy, and the determination of
a policy involves a consideration of
whether or not the fctafe not only shall
not build additional agricultural schools,
but whether it shall aliolish one of the
schools which it now has.
The state at present maintains two
schools of agriculture, one at Randolph
Center and the Theodore X. Vail school
at Lyndon Center, the gift of Mr. Vail.
The inventory of the property at Ran
dolph shows a valuation of $35,000, with
the use of other buildings not owned by
the state, estimated to be worth 2S,000,
The inventory oi the Vail school show
a valuation of $27n.fi"i7. The school at
Randolph can W given up with a loss of
only a few thousand dollar, while the
abandonment of the institution at Lyn
don would mean that the entire property
would be lost to the state.
The trustees, in urging legislative de
termination of an agricultural school
policy, say they lielie.v "that the state
shouid provide "facilities for every stu
dent who wishes to obtain instruction of
the type offered by these school, because
the future of Vermont defends very
largely upon the success of ita agricul
tural "development. An agricul
tural school with which is connected a
well equipped and well managed farm,
with a system of crops and livestock o
planned that a reasonable Income can be
realized, possesses great possibilities."
But, the report savs later, "this laudable
aim cannot be adequately aecompnsneu
with a meagerly equipped plant."
The trustees, in dealing with the two
schools, say that in order that the Ran
dolph school be put in a condition to give
the proper kind of instruction to its stu
dents an outlay of $74,olH) will be re
quired, with $20,000 a year for mainte
nance, while in the case of the Vail
school, $,').3.000 will be needed to remodel
buildings, etc., when the Vail residence
is turned over to the state, not an imme
diate expenditure, with $30,000 a year
for maintenance. Among the items need
ed at once at Randolph is a dormitory,
the estimated cost of w hich i f-U.OOO,
or more than the whole plant is worth.
as comHred with the value of the Vail
school at 27!.0.!7. More land l needed
at Randolph, at present there being even
no pasturage for the cows.
The trustees ask for a consideration
of whether it is necessary to maintain
two agricultural schools in Vermont. The
report points out that the maximum at
tendance in the two schools in 1915-10
was 158, whfle "it is the opinion of ex
perts in secondary agricultural educa
tion that 200 student may be effective
ly taught in a secondary school." Con
tinuing the report ys, "If we grant the
validity of this opinion, Vermont docs
not now need two schools." but also say
ing that there is the possibility of larger
fixture attendance.
As to the future attendance the re-1
port points out that there are certain
developments which militate against a
future need of two schools, pointing to
the increase of the number of high
schools that now teach agriculture. It is
set forth that "it should be remembered
that agricultural courses iye now being
offered in at least 20 high schools and
that the state is appropriating several
thousand annually for the support of
this work."
The trustees declare that "they are
credibly informed that the establishment
of such courses in Wisconsin high schools
has led to the abandonment of one of
the special state agricultural schools be
cause of lack of attendance. If this ex
perience is duplicated in Vermont, if ag
ricultural instruction can be had near
at hand, we may not expect greatly in
creased attendance at our state agricul
tural schools. The theory of agriculture
can be taught, not as thoroughly to be
sure, not as much of it in the regular
high school course; and many of the
students can learn practical farm oper
ations on their home farms."
In conclusion the report says: "The
trustees, therefore, respectively suggest
that the incoming general assembly make
careful inquiry into the agricultural
school situation, with A view of estab
lishing a policy which will provide our
youth with facilities for acquiring the
test possible education of this type at
the least possible cost to themselves and
to the state."
BRYAN CABLES PREMIER.
Telle Him to Stot the War and Treat
and Treat
-Wiiyfcm .T.
with Germany.
Jacksonville. Fla., Dec. 16.
I'rvan. here yesterday on Iim way to Mi
ami, Fla., stated that he had sent this
message to the British premier:
"As a friend of the nations at war, as
a Christian and a lover of humanity, I
respectfully but most earnestly appeal to
vou to use your great influence to secure
your governments consent to negotia
tions. "There is no dispute that must neces
sarily lie settled by force. All interna
tional disputes are capable of adjustment
by peaceful means. " Kvery guarantee
that can possibly be sec-tired Ii.nI war can
be stated as a condition precedent to
peace. Do not, I pray you, by refusing
an exchange of views, assume responsi
bility for a continuation of the unspeak
able'horrors of this unparalleled conflict.
Your decision may mean life or death to
millions."
REDUCE PLAYERS' WAGES.
National
League Club Owners
Reach
That Determination.
York. IVc. 16. Aft.r a
Xew
lastins four dv. the National b-agiiejer that Hodge I!ro. Have nmianu in
club owner enled their annual meeting ! mind for the location of a fctno.ooit a
here last night. Uenibling plant to handle their eastern
The d.rlaiation that "plsver' salaries ! business, the crowded shipping condition
mut lie scaled dnwn met
with unani-
ing opinion '
wt operat-i
mon consent The rrvailir
ing epc
nc
and r-aiie a tir mt-ri--t
hrmight about thmush the Federal league '
war must be cut down considerably.
..n m 1 1 t ,n r- I mi. . i ir II . Il mm ,
tli Klol, tri.- :
DROPPED DEAD
IN CLASSROOM
Prof. Hugo Munsterberg of
Harvard University
Was Lecturing
BEFORE GO WOMEN OF
RADCLIFFE COLLEGE
He Was Pronounced German
Supporter in the
War
Cambridge, Mass., Dec. 16. Hugo Mun
sterberg, professor of psychology at Har
vard university, died suddenly to-day.
while lecturing Iwfore a class of Radcliife
college. Prof. Munsterberg was seized
with what appeared to be a fainting spell
on the lecture platform. Some of the
young women member of bis class, of
whom there were till, went to his side and
then called ft physician. The latter
reached the stricken teacher just before
lie expired.
Prof. Munsterberg was born in Danzig,
Germany, in lHOH, and after distinguished
work as an educator in his native land
he came to Harvard in 1HH2 as professor
of psychology. In 1010 he returned to
Germany as Harvard exchange professor
to the University of Berlin, resuming his
work at Harvard in 1012. He was pres
ident, of the Boston German association.
Munsterberg became prominent soon
after the great war began by presenting
in his addresses and written articles the
attitude of the Teutonic allies as he un
derstood it. Gradually he came to be
regarded as the sjKikesman in Xew Eng
land for many Germans and others who
favored Germany. As the result, he was
brought into controversies with other
members of the Harvard faculty who
were outspoken in defense of the allies.
FOUR YEARS' SENTENCE..
Imposed on Daniel Pilbin in Lamoille
County Court.
Hyde Tark, Dec. 16. The December
term of Lamoille county court finished
its work and adjourned yesterday. The
work of the term consisted of two crim
inal cases tried by jury, one bill found
by the grand jury, granting of ten di
vorces and the transacting of consider
able civil and chancrry cases. Judge
Slack, who presided, moved, the work
along rapidly and thoroughly.
Sheriff Town took Daniel Pilbin of W
more, who pleaded guilty of assault with
intent to kill, and Henry Reynolds of
Waterville, who pleaded guilty to assault
on his wife, both sentenced to the house
of correction for not less than four
years, to that institution yesterday. Dep
uty Sheriff J. T. Stevens took John Pe-
paw, jr. of Eden, charged with burglary,
to the industrial school t-riday.
The divorces granted were: Ilorton E
Dotv vs. Marv Dotv. Jefison; Bessie
Wheeler v Charles Wheeler, Morrisville;
Henry Pells vs. Minnie Pells, Water
ville; Eva W. Bourn vs. Leon 0. Bourn,
Cambridge: Myrtle tldred vs. J. W.
Eldred. Belvidere; Minnie Battye vs
George Battye, Morrisville; Margaret
Clark vs. Charles E. Clark, Cambridge;
Lena Woodward vs. Edward Woodward,
Johnson; Mae A. Burnor vs. Frank Bur
nor, Johnson.
In the case of State vs. Jones, charged
with rape, the jury returned a verdict
of not guilty; in the case of State vs.
Crawford, charged with driving an auto
when intoxicated, the jury were unable
to agree.
RE-UNITED IN JAIL.
Three Women Members of Family Un
der Arrest in Burlington.
Burlington, Dec. 16. Mother, daugh
ter and sister were re-united in Chit
tenden county jail this morning, but the
reunion was necessarily styirt as the
mother, Xellie Tasha. was to be taken
to state prison at Windsor to-day to
serve a sentence for adultery.
Her sister, Jennie Ijimphere Adams,
was arrested last night when her home
on Xorth Winooskl avenue was raided
by the police on a warrant charging her
with keeping a house of ill-faine. The
third member of the family, Theresa
Sheldon, a daughter of Xellie, and there
fore a niece of the woman in whose house
she was staying, was also locked up with
Jennie, charged with being an inmate of
the place. With the exception of a ten-year-old
boy the family is in jail, of
course omitting the husbands of all three
women with whom they do not live.
When the house was searched last
evenimr four soldiers from the Second
cavalry, all from Co. K, were found there.
The men, Fletcher, Bowman, Eglie and
Foley, were allowed to return to the
post after their names had been taken,
but may be summoned into city court
later.
MAY PICK RUTLAND.
As Assembling Station for Dodge Auto
mobile.
Rutland Dec. 16. There is good reason
to believe that Rutland is to have an as
sembling factory for the Dodge auto
mobile. The Rutland Business Men's as
sociation has been approached by an un
known party for a suggestion as to sites
and Newman C
wade and J. A. rwiano.
local agents for the Dodge ear, have had!(1,iTeP f,,r dessert
similar inquiries. A representative of the
Torrincton Building Construction ruin-
pany ot lomngcon, tonn., mt in
this citv yesterday afternoon, stated that
it is generally understood among build
via Xew otl and Albany making n oi i brought about some very aatifaetory re -
great advantage to have a storage rlaejuts. Steps were taken to raise money
in Xew Enpland which can be reached to be paid toward the parsonage fund,
nmm iTinn - .-m"-
Rutland Transit company and Mitiami ;
railroad. So fr a ran be learned no
ijticns en aites have been ecured.
1 1 1 1 1 , ... . . . .- ' ' - - - , - -
FOR ALLIED RED CROSS.
Good Sum Was Netted at Concert and
Dance Last Night.
llarre Sister Susans who are sewing
shirt for soldier received a big impetus
in their work last night, when a concert
in behalf of the Allied Red Cross fund
netted it promoter more than fl3.
Local artists, instrumental and vocal,
and readers, contributed to a program of
exceptional worth in Clan Gordon hall,
and a fair estimate of the crowd fives
the total attendance at ;VM. The old
principle of physic that the contained
must be no larger than the container
may have kept u few in the lobby of
the hall, for patrons of the conceit
packed the auditorium to the door. It
was a biuger sui-ees than the allied
committee had anticipated. After the
concert there was dancing, and purveyor
of confectionery, ice cream and soft
drink were kept busy,
Supplies for the women worker of
llarre who have been giving their time
and strength to the. Bed Cross fund will
be purchased with the proceeds of the
benefit concert. Much has been accom
plished already, but the women are now
assured that the product of their needle
work will be much ureater. City Clerk
James Mackay presided at the concert,
and the committee included the follow-
inir men: George Mowatt, president, C,
Greig, A. Kirton, W. Thomson, K. Clark,
J. I-awrie, A. W. Corinaek, (i. Robertson,
treasurer. (',. Mcl-eod, secretary.
The following numbers were warmly
received: Remarks by the chairman.
City Clerk James Mackay; piano over
ture, "The Minstrel." Miss Glndys Rhind;
bagpipe selection, "Hielan' Laddie," Les
lie Mercer; solo, "Thora," Miss (!. Pnlm-
er; solo, "Hurrah for the Allies," Harry
Clark; solo, "Dark Lochnagar, Mrs
Thomas Ingrain; Highland dance, Miss
Will and Miss Thomson; solo, "Thou Art
So Xear," D. McMillan, sr.; comic song,
John Duncan; cornet solo, Mr. Barberi;
reading. Miss Edith Watson; song. Miss
Isabella Mc-Hardy; step dance, Leslie
Mercer; solo, "Till the Boys Come
Home," James Bennett; orchestra,' Miss
Gall and Mrs. Cooper; piper, Piper Rid
dell. "EVERY MEMBER" CANVASS
Is Being Conducted By Three Churches in
Barre.
Pastors and the laity of three evangel
ical churches in Barre ure showing their
faith in advertising by inserting a half
page appeal in The Times. Here in Barre
it is something of a venture for the
churches to advertise, but in larger cen
ters of population the church is a prolilic
source for the advertising manager and
metropolitan churches prove their abid
ing faith in the efficacy of newspaper
advertising by contracting with the news
papers for regular space reservations.
Locally, the Hedding Methodist, Univer
salis! and Congregational churches have
enlisted newspaper advertising columns
in their appeal for subscriptions to main
tain the work of the three societies in
1017. The "copy" includes" some very
appealing reasons why the work of the
church should receive the support of the
community.
Out of the newspaper advertising and
a good bit of advertising that hasn't ap
peared ill the public prints will develop
an "every member" canvass Sunday aft
ernoon, between the hours of 2 and 5
o'clock. Each church has selected a large
committee of men and women who will
make the canvass, going into every home
connected with these churches to try to
enliHt the interest of the adherents of
each church in their church and its work,
as well as to solicit subscriptions for the
support of the church in the coming year.
The allied church committee furnishes a
good deal of food for thought in the fol
lowing statement : "The churches of
Barre are doing a larger work for the
city than many realize, and they deserve
the loyal support of every one; and es
pecially of those who hold membership in
them. liCt everyone make it a point to
be at home Sunday afternoon, and be
ready for the committee when its mem
bers call tell them what work you are
ready to do and how much you are will
ing to give."
ATTRACTIVE DISPLAY
At Sale Conducted By Ladies of the Bap
tist Church.
The sale yesterday afternoon and even
ing under the auspices of the ladies' mis
sionary society of the Baptist church and
the supper with the members of the la
dies' aid society in charge proved to be a
very successful entertainment through
out the entire affair. Although the in
clemency of the weather was calculated
to keepdown the attendance, the parlors
were well filled at the sale, as well as at
the supper table.
There wm an abundance of appropriate
Christinas gifts at the booth and count
ers, with nearly everything imaginable
for one to buy at such a sale. There
were candy counters, fancy work counters
and an apron booth. The candy counters
and fancy work counters were tastily ar
ranged. The apron booth was handsome
ly trimmed in a color scheme of lavender,
yellow and blue crepe paper attached so
as to form a canopy of the most gorge
ous effects, as the rays of light streamed
through to the aprons. There were
. , ..... r . ii... .
aprons ot every description, iroin inul
of a general house apron to that of a
dainty little doll's costume, many of
which were hand-embroidered and showed
great deal of care in their making.
Quilts were very much in evidence, there
being one pattern tor winch me ladies
are taking and filling orders. The ladies
in ehart.e of the sale were Mrs. Harry
Bradley, Mrs. Carl Rollins. Mrs. Alden
Grearson and Mrs. Frank Cave.
The supper which was served from 6
to 7:.'fO was also well patronized. The j
menu was baked bean and brown bread j
of the oM-iashlonecl -ew r.ngiunu sryie,
' . . ,- : l 1 , . 1
with some delicious m.iiir-nimic i-nKe and
The women who bad
j,.),, nf this part of the program were
members of the ladies' aid Society, the
committee being as follow: Airs. F. A.
Hutchinson. Mr. Anna Inglis, Mrs. Etta
Grearson, Mr. Emma Grierson, Mrs.
1 ... :-.V- Mrs lltwrt -l..r,i an.) Mr 4
Xellie Kidder. j
" The buiness meet in- held at 5 o'.-Uk ;
!bv the member of the ladies aid .-ieiy i
mr ui-iiiijc n-
giiod deal o: en
taken anil cl""'
thiiim. a vote
- - - m.
raised, the same to be paid within a sped
tied time.
MAIN STRVjfS
ARL40CKED
Heaviest Storm in 15 Years
Struck Millinocket, Me.,
TJs Morning
10-FOOT DRIFTS
ON THE AVERAGE
And Several Stores Were
Unable to Open for
Business
Millinocket, Me., Dee. 10. The heavi
est snow storm of 15 years is here to
day. The main streets are blocked with
drifts averaging ten feet. Several stores
were unable to open for business.
Storm Damage About Boston.
Boston, Dee. 16. Eight and one-half
inches of snow fell yesterday and last
night but the wind caused drifts of mucU
greater depths. Trains from Xew York
were an hour late and commuters gener
ally were late in reaching the city. The
storm ceased at daylight, and the weath
er bureau said there was no more snow
in sight.
At Maiden, Mary Mcliinis, a telephone
operator who was on her way. to work
this morning, was killed by an express
train. She crossed the track ahead of
the engine but apparently was drawn
back by the suction and was struck by
car steps.
The Marconi radio station at Wellfieet
was put out of commission as the result
of the storm.
NO BLAME FOUND.
For Death of Aja Child on Track in Bane
Some Weeks Ago.
Because it developed during the hear
ing before the public service commis
sion at Montpelier yesterday afternoon,
in the matter of the death of l'cter Mar
cotte, that the Xew England and tlrange
county telephone companies were inter
ested because the arc light was on their
pole, the hearing was continued until
Jan. 12, to allow the companies to be
represented.
The case of Stephen Aja against Mont
pelier &. Wells River railroad was taken
up by the commission later in the after
noon and completed, there being compar
atively few witness, It will be recalled
that the Aja child, a baby .lightly over
a year old, was killed on the' Berlin street
crossing in Barre Beveral weeks ago. The
evidence before the commission tended to
show that it was an unavoidable accident
and it is probable that the commission
will so report. States Attorney trea
son represented the state in the railroad
hearing.
WAS FOUND DEAD.
Alfred C. Woodward Was Life-Long
Resident of Middlebury.
Middiebury, Dee. 16. Alfred C. Wood
ward, a life-long resident of this' town,
who had been ill for some time at the
home of Mr. and Mrs. Cassius Bosley,
and who for the pajl two weeks had been
confined to his room, was found dead
Friday morning. He was about 58 years
of age. He is survived by a niece, Mrs.
Reno Pierce of Arlington, X. J. The re
mains were taken to the undertaking
romos of A. J. Bfackmer. Mr. Wood
ward was for a number of years a popu
lar clerk at the Addison house and after
ward became a drug clerk and had
worked in all of the drug stores of this
village. He was a Mason of high degree.
The funeral will be held Sunday after
noon at 2:30 o'clock at the Masonic tem
ple. CAIRO TEMPLE OFFICERS.
C. D. Simonds of Burlington Was Elected
Imperial Potentate.
Rutland, Dec. 16. C. D. Simonds of
Burlington was elected imperial poten
tate of Cairo temple, Xobles of the Mys
tic Shrine, at the annual meeting here
yesterday.
The other principal officers are: Chict
rabban. Byron O. Robinson, Bellowa
Falls; assistant rbban, George Kim-aid,
Fair Haven; high priest and prophet.
Dr. A. W. Farnsworth. Rutland; Orien
tal guide, Malcomb G. Clark, Burlington;
treasurer, Frank Allen, Fair Haven; re
corder, P. H. Seaver, Rutland.
The membership is 800, two being in
itiated yesterday. Three hundred were
at the banquet last night.
WAS FINED $50
Because While Intoxicated He Operated
an Automobile.
Winooski. Dec. Hi. George Knox was
in municipal court yesterday afternoon
to answer to the charge of operating an
automobile while in an intoxicated con
dition. He was fined $.W and costs of
?t(.70, which he paid. Arthur Ramsey, a
passenger in the car with Knox, wa
lined $."i and costs for intoxication. The
car wa being driven in a ligiag manner
on Main street, first on the sidewalk and
next in the road, winding up in a back
yard on East ( enter street. When they
attempted to b''k "f ,h' .v, t,hp.v
smashed into some steps which lead into
a boarding house. Chief of Police Barber
then saw them and they were taken into
custody and immediately brought into
court.
PLAN CO-OPERATIVE STORE.
Bellows Falls Wage Earners to Consider
Proposition.
Bellows rails. ikv. to. . puonc rocn-
in? of the wage earner of the town wi'I
be hel l Sunday afternoon in papermak-
jri - "n
tral 1-ab.ir u
j meeting is to
hl! uniler tne direction oi ine en-
union. The purpose of the
see whether the wage earn
er will open a co-operative rtore. 1 hi
move b Ix-en sjitated sire-e erly in the
fall and it i expected that definite ac
tion will be Ui.cn at Sunday's meeting.
