yrr tt
('.'' í ""Y 4 '"; j...-fijm r -ru- . iru-uxtn' - n -ij-ij-ij
VOLUME
THE STATE CAPITAL
Bend Hill Contest Crist: lYuhilnT
ionists Start Active Com
piiMHi Tor Submission
Santa Ke, X. M., lec. 4. The con
test started by Alex Head, the de
feated republican candidate for dis -
1rict attorney for the district com- '
posed of the counties oí Santa Fe, ronlinent, together with the . recognize (...vernor McDonald, in
u i., i,u i i beautiful old mission buildings-built ! the event Gov oi'iior-clcd de lacn
mo Arriba ami San Juan, has al- , . , . r,omues,adorfts,
ready reached out and drawn in a;whi,h if llot rival in interest ! '''V " "Ml l"f"1', Uml
majority of the count ofncials and ' anyt,ing to be found in Europe. . ""I"'1"' "ttorueys, ,1 is stated,
promises plenty of grief for a iium- : pm-ini; ;ist September the olllcers ! n, ll,nv- seeking legal means to pro
ner of the stale ollicials-elect. Tbei,,r (hl 7liiart tni'iit of the interior vent Governor .McDonald holding
trouble ha started, and th(o'starU ,)(ok JHny topto .jn u. vicin- 'Mtv . i ,:ase the inauguration of
mg it would like to get rid r .1. H.)ty (1f Tans amo,w which 8Oin0 very, the governor-elect is delayed.
Crist, the elected democrat, and then uuUfl, Holographs were left at! Word received from Mr. de liara
Mop the contest right there, but'Mls ..-.,.,. .howine buildincs built ;. i n. ,.iy.... iimt i,ia hi. iw
.hey will not be able to do it. It
is well understood that Catron does
ml, like Crist, and has not liked
him for these many years, and for
very- good reasons, but all to the
credit of Cris!, and it is expected
Unit this light will go on until the
courts turn the attempt to defeat the
will .of the epople down good and
hard. The contention is that the vot
ers should not scratch their
t irkets !
wnen iney are repunucan tickets,
as (he defeated candidates all along-
the line have n very good idea that
republican votes defeated them and
. Iec(cd the democrats and independ
ents. The present slate gamo warden
was elected to the "ollice of probate
-erk of Sania F county and thero is
much interest being shown in tliV
matter of selecting a siit-cessor to
him. It i
understood thai a large
umber of local land owners of the
-lab- have- taken an unusual int.T
cst in the 'matter and will duly
present a candidate, if they have not
already done so. This ollice has he
mine one of the most important, ap.
M.intmcn(s in the' stale and it is
probable (bat there will be some
lively elforls made to land it. The
present c'.'ief deputy game warden
is said to in; a candidate for the
place, ai.- in additioa to his candid
acy'it. is understood that the organ
ized sporlsmeu of tlje state will have
a man for the place, as also will
those interested in the preserva
tion of the game from sentimental
and economic reasons
The prohibitionist are getting
ready for their light, both in the
legislature and before the people.
They expect, that there will be some
opposition to the submission of the
slatewide amendment, but not much.
However, they are determined to be
prepared and as soon as the amend
ment is accepted by the legislature
the campaign will start right' there,
and be a red hot affair until John
Haileycorn gets his knockout for
Nevv Mexico. The liiiuor man is in
a bad way in this light because both
the big political parlies will be tied
up with the other fellow. In all
lrphabi)ity both political parties will
try to avoid embarrassment by hav
ing the election on the amendment
held ut an off time, and if not both
political parlies will probably en
dorse the adoption of the amendment
The' only show the liquor men now
have is to get (he election callejj as
a tp.-cial one, which will be belter
for Hie politicians, also.
The return of "Bull" Andrews to
the state, after a long illness, has
not brought aiiy additional happi
uruuKiii any auumoiiui napoi-
Innnm.w.r the renohlicm lend.
ness
.... : -
ri n in uvi iiuimu una oilier cuun-
ties. They fear that tho quiet)
se.itlen.an may again take a notion
U go to tho Unitod States senate.
and they have tho job already fanm -
eii oui. cairon is saiu 10 ue an ac
tive candidato for tho place. Fall
is expected to be a candidate, there
are two or three strong dark horses,
:.n.i fhev Iiüva n vorv rlistine. hp.
lief that Andrew must bo reckon -
d with.
r!l!
lEl OIEI) TO THE IXTEPEST OE C.OOD CITIZENSHIP ASP THE
IX
CLAYTON', NEW
SEEING AMERICA
1
III ICVV
i" the lart that the Amer
ican -pcopie spend ?500,000,000 an
nually m -ivil 1 1 seeing in Europe, the
government of the United States
I the people of this country to "See
America First." and with this pur
pose in view the department of the.
'interior is taking photographs r 1
thc Indian Pueblos and the ancient
buildings left behind by the Aztecs
jin Laos about 17W together with the j considerably improved since bis ar
! wonderful scenic views of the valli:y rival in Eos Angeles. He intimates,
of Taos, which rivals ai thing to : however, that on advice of his phy
be found in Swit.orlandATlio gov- sicians, be may delay his return to
! eminent ollicials were parlirularly ,,.w Mexico until after January I.
; interested ill the wonderful hot; Considerable conjeslure as to who
; springs in the Itio (rancie located in 'will be governor, if Mr. de Haca fails
jone uf the most picturesque valleys ip, qualify, is being indulged in by
I in the southwest, known as the Mon- 'politicians throughout the slate. This
: elreziimat Hot Snrincs and called ' in in h,. . .mint .own. wiii.-ii in.
y.. i unit ,v Huí Imli-uw whirl, uiir.
. ........... .... ............. r-
:n.. .,uii.,i Vnniii 1
recover- i
..,1 v i..,. wonderful
I Íes
made
in the springs justify such '
a name. Hut in addition to this these
'claims are strengthened not only by
I the traditions of the Pueblos of Xew
; Mexico, but. the traditions- of the :
Aztecs to the lirsl Spanish Compter-i
iors as evidenced by their early:
'writers which are of the greatest in
terest to historians ami ethonolo- :
L - ut s. win ch are bri eflv as foil ows:
n,,. i,.,,,!;. ..r n... i.,-i.i,w u','.
............ ... ..... .......... -'
thai tie- Montezuinas was born on ollice until his successor qualifies."
the upper water oí the Itio t raude should de Haca not qualify, the Mc
aitd married the maiden Malinchie lonaldites claim, the present govcr
and became a great ruler and power. -nor would, under the sec! ion quoted
among the people. It was reveal-1 above, remain governor until ail
ed to him by the great Father that' other election.
should follow the white headed
eagle to the south and where it lit,
then; erect a big city, which he , ed on the contention that the ollicers
shoud call Mezitil, now the city of j elected .I the .November election
Mexico, and that he would return must qualify on January I. IfEind
again provided the people whom he . k,,y qualifies, aim de Haca dou nc!
left behind should keep tires burn-(he contenders claim, there will be
ing until his return. Their sacred (a vacancy in the governor's chair,
llres have been kept alive since that and l.indsey, as lieutenant gover
time'by the Pueblos in anticipation ; nor. They quote Article 5, Section
of his return. 7, of the constitution, which says:
The traditions of the Aztecs as "in ,-ase of a vacancy in the ollice
given to the .early Spaniards is that .'of governor, the lieutenant governor
they came from the great- city of ; shall succeed to that ollice, and lo
Az.talau, many days' journey to the
north, and near this city were the;
wonderful springs of perp'lual ex
peditions on the part of the early'
Spaniards to locate them, which ex
pedidalions located the Grand Quir
era. Sania Fe and Braba, now known
as San Fernando, le Taos, abbrev
iated into Taos.
In connection Villi these ancient
traditions of the Aztec, the Span
iards and the Pueblos, which bear
on this subject is thafQust north of
the Pueblo of Taos aro to be seen
at this time the foundation of what
is presumed to bo the ruins of a vast,
city, cov ering some twenty square,
miles, while llvo miles west of thoinext highest number of votes, qual-
same aro to bo round tho womieriui 1
hot springs, known to the Indians as
Wapumi, and inscribed on tho rocks
between which the spring flows aro
tho ancient Aztec inscriptions signi
fying perpetual life.
These inscriptions were together
. -n. ,.. ; : iu.- i,..i:i
"u" " . ., l"Kn , : ,
surroundings recently pnoiogi apnea
1 1.
tho stalf appointed by the gov-j
11 j
ii.-iwnoi.t. in it r.-ir.mnicrn nf fieeincr
. firs, an(J wl one
f lho most altraclive feahu-cs in
. 1((r Murei in tho asL
Start your children on tho road
i lo success by cultivating systematic
savings. Our Christmas Savings
Clnh will do iL Kiip vnu nnd vnur
I children. Slate Bank of Cornnerco
ji-u ,
MF.XICO, SATl UDAY. OECEMBEH
TO PREVENT IÍD0NÍLD
FROM HOLDING OVER
Itcpiihlicitn.s, It is Iteportcd. Will
Not Iteeofinie His Authority in
Case do Baca Fail to Qualify
Santa l-'o. Dec. 10,. There is a
LVI,
founded rumor here that the
ine.w state legislature which will
m,,pl
on January ! will refuse tn
.... 1 1. .i;.....,...... .....i it .......
ui llllllll'l Hi n imii rt , hum li Mini
be (hat somewhat of a legal tangle
will result in case the iri.vcriior-elert
is not inaugurated al the time pre
scribed by law. Three possible sol
utions of the problem have been dis
cussed. The Hi st solution' ad anced is that
(overnor McDonald would bold over
as governor. The advocates of this
solution base their arguments on Ar-
"II Sii.f.fi.ui ..I' lli.i uhil.. i-
i ii,,n,,,. wi.iei.L.-iv- -i.-verv oin.
: ....n
in. iii.ii- ii-ii.iif-ii. rniii. iiuiu in.i
'I be second ui Aliment is that I.iiui
ey w ill be ,-;o i rnor. This is bas-
all the powers, duties and emolu
ment thereof"
Another belief is that in case Uov-ernor-elecl
de, Baca does not quali
fy, Holm O. Bursum, as the candi
date receiving tin; next highest num
ber of votes, would bo governor.
This argument is backed by the fact
that in the territorial days, old tim
ers say in the year IHHCi, there was
a race between one Fernando Jim
enez and Dr. Skipwich for. county
coroner, in San Miguel county. Mr.
Jimenez won the election by a large
majority, hi;', for some unknown
reason, failed to qualify. Dr. Skip-
' wich, as the person receiving the
ified, and served as county corone
until the next regular election.
I'l ULIC NOTICIO
V
Public notice is hereby given that
I have sold my entiro lumber bus-
I ir...:2 nf Pliivfi-in imsl Aft 1 l.pa I A (lio
, "j
Star Lumber Co, and I desire to
i, . ..
rloso up my accounts at once. All
persons indebted to my self, or to
The Tom Gray Lumber Co., please
call around, to my ofllco and make
settlement. 'And all persona to whom
I am indebted, on account of said
lumber business, aro invited lo pre
; sent their accounts lo mo as soon as
; possible.
I Ditud at Clayton, IeW Al -VICO
; Deeeinh. r 11
101G.
Tom Cray.
rPtilTl.niXa OE THE COMUl'XITV
Ifi, 191R.
M'MItEU 51
ELECTION KETIUNS It Y SEAHCII
LIGHT -
While Millions of people on dec- .
lion night crowded about the bull-;
. tin hoards watching electric de-j
vices printing or writing tho elec-
Unit returns as they sped in over the I
wire fiister than light itself, another
crowd remote from newspaper of-
uces peered 0111 or lannliouse win-
lows, stood in village roads and
strn.'ls and gazed toward Schenecla-
ly awaiting their returns from the
newspaper 111 Hie sky. Early in the
veiling, long before the returns
were made public in many of the
ural districts, the great white ling
r of a search light traced its mes
sage ot loveruor Whitmans elec
tion by making a circle of light in
thi' clear blue sky. The searchlight
was operated by eniriiieers at the
enera! Electric Works, and the
led ion returns were transulated by
1 code of signals published in a
newspaper of wide circulation the
lay before.
From villages and (owns lifty
miles away came reports of reading
the si'.'tials of (he big searchlight and
thus satisfied the engineers that
I heir signals w ere not. misunderstood
I'he searchlight used had a live-
foot, relleclor. the same size as one
used in a (est a few months before
which was observed '.HI miles awav.
liltlTISII U AH RILL
London, Dec. I. Andrew I'.onar
.aw, chancellor of the exchequer,
iimoiinceu m the house of common -
this afternoon lhal lie- daily aver..
ige expenditure o (treat Briliau
in Hie war hail ris. n to 1.1,1 mono.
Mr. Law said the adual expend.
ilures hail exceeded ll.e estimate i;v.
ing to the increi:-.' m the moni
tions and adililioiMi loans to 4 i--.it
I Iril kiti's allies and ' her doiwiu-
oiis.
The chancellor said:
"Financially, we cannot hope to go
hi indefinitely 011 the present scale
hut we can go on long enough to
make sure lhal i! will not be from
i'nancial causes n we fail to secure
rctoi-y."
SAI'LSUUIY
lENT
ELECTED
I'KO TEM
PUESI
Washington, Dec I i Senator Wil-
lard Saulsbury of Delaware was tho
unanimous choice of the democratic
senate caucus tonight for president
pro tempore, to succeed (hf late
Senator Clark of Arkansas. Ho will
he elected by the senate probably
(pinon'ow. Senator Saulsbury vviis
elected lo the senate in January, 1UI3
lb; had been for many years active
in democratic national and slate
politics, and is the Delaware mem
ber of tho state national committee.
I'lULIC SALE
J. A. Becker of near (randview,
will have a big public sale at his
place on Thursday, December -8.
Oí head of line 'cattle, including sev
eral milch cows, will bo offered for
lie, as will also 5 head of horses,
a lot oi poultry, icon, anu laruung
implements. Liberal terms are of
fered purchasers, and there will be
no by-bidding, everything" offered
will be sold. Col.-J. A. Sowers will
be the auctioneer. The Ladies Aid
Society of that eonimunify will servo
lunch at noon. Dt-21
HILL II S COAL AND ICE
During the past week, John L.
Hill, the popular drayman, purchas
ed the coal and ice business form
erly eonduclcd by E. E. HamM. Mr.
Hill is experienced in tho business
and is expected lo make a big suc
cess of it.
D. H. Akuis or near stead, was a
business visitor and trader in the
the county seat tho forepart of the
week. Mr. Akins took out lumber
for his new house that is being buiit
on bis line p'aee.
FRANCISCO VILLA TO
START NEW RAiaPASE
Divide
Horde
Forces and Attack li. Si,
.'oints. lid Plenty
of Vmmuhilion
CI Paso, Texas. lKe. 11. --Francisco
Villa announced in Chihuahua
0 ty he intend. '! lo dv.ti Ins men
into groups of iwonly-Slvo enuh aa.l
distribute them along the An-ericm
buder and in tho interi'.'r of tbn
Lited States 'o loot and burn pr.'i -.
;'ly under his instruclio.i, a ;.ller
Kceived from a prom. nr. it Chihua-bi-a
business man and forwarded to
Washington tmD.y, slated:
J...I, ..inn ii, in.; fililí.- I Vtl .
declared his ir.Untion of raising 1:;
1 I. -1 II- il ii i l.k ut il.i nf.i..-
!.:.! (if i'5,(X men. but .lenie'V bo
intended to attack (jj'.iiei'al-i'crsU-iug's
column, the letter added. Tlierc
-I. dement- according to tho b It r
vero made I- the njecting of mer
e.icnts which was called by Viha.
Villa, the Chihuahua City busi
ness man wrote, said he would have
his men on tho borde -f.it---. i-.v '
proclamations calling upon the V -icans
living im the Ameritan side of
the border to ''rise in rebellion
against the United States and join
bis (Villa's; army." In thia way 16
I'nilci! Slates could be caused moro
trouble than licit v .! -m.-it tould
lake care of, Villa auiioiinced to tho
m.-rchauts. the letter cotiV.;fxt
Villa also declared he h " j.-iie.'V,l
ooo rounds of aiiiniiintioi1F.fí(iu iu"L'"
the desert where i nly lío- members
of bis family knew of its location
and he could get il at any timo he
needed it, according to this letter.
The Mexican leader also mado a
(long harangue to merchants about
political conditions in the United
States -and European countrh'S and
told then, these warring countries
would subjugate the United Slates
in order to get its enormous supply
of gold, in which he. Villa, would
have a part.
The letter slated that Villa ca-
lured i.Oim rifles from the CanuiMu
forces in Chihuahua City, mucbam
munition and many cannons.
HEALTH OK )E BACA IMI'KOYI
Santa Fe, Dec. 13. Governor Me
Donald is preparing to vacate tin
executive mansion on December L'8,'
The family of Governor-elect E. C.
de Baca will move in shortly after
ward. It is not expoeti d that Mr. de Baca
will bo "hero to tako tho oath Ja ,
.New Years day, even should li) Ifo
compelled for health reasons lo re
:.i"u lo California. His phys ci.un
declaro that his iicalth Is Jnij,rov
ing, and that he is not suffering- from
pernicious anemia, but from per
sistent digestive troubles. Pors.o'.y
he will remain during the legisla
tive session, taking it as easy as
posible, merely disposing of bus
iness as it comes to him without
mixing and milling actively iiv the
legislative turmoil.
SMITH SELLS LOTS
The lirst of tho week (!. C. Smith
sold several lots on Front street to
Vechi & Nicoli of Trinidad. Thoao
lots comprise the entrance to his
wagon and feed yard. Ho immed
iately began work cnlargiim his yard
and sheds to tho south an I has tho
sheds ain.ost completed. The, new
owners will immediately Login con
struction of a brick building on the
lols 'purchased.
IIDDLE (.1 THE ItOAl)
vv neu in oiayion pari. our car in
the middle of tho street. Thab is
(ho ordinance and regulation and by
observing it you will avoid trouble
with Marshall Kerlln and bis Honor,
Jud;o Kingdom. Th i new regul
ation is 'proving very saliafacL'ry
and has met tho ai p'-vul of ur,u'-
t
'. !
