1916
PRICE TWO CENTS
VCL. LVIH. NO. 237
POPULATION 28,219
NORWICH, CONN., MONDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1916
i TEN PAGES SO COLUMNS
The Bulletin's Circulation in Norwich is DoubJj&Jhat of Any Other Paper, and Its Total t Gustation ; is the Largest jn Connecticut in Proportion to the City's ; Population
' I7S6 ' rs.jmt$ v H-mv
4$hw ft 1$
WW
Germans Have Been Cleared Out of Positions Near
-the Stuff Redoubt, Which They Occupied Last Week.
"ROGPS OF GEN. KAIG
During Saturday Night and Sunday German Trenches Near
Mcrval and Clery Fell Into the Hands of the French Dur
ing Grenade Fighting -Activity Around Halle Indicates
the Commencement of an Entente Drive With Peronne
as Its Objective In Galicia the Russians Have Started
Another Big Offensive With the Purpose of Driving on
-
to Lemberg Another Zeppelin Raid. Has Been Made on
London and One of the Attacking Aircraft Was Burned.
The left win of the British army
near the Ancre and Somme rivers in
Trance has advanced on nearly a two
'nIV front from the east of Eau court
I'Abraye to the Albert-Br. paumo road,
capturing- in the operation the town of
K.mcourt l'Abbaye and throwing their
line to within about four miles of
Lapaume itself.
In addition the British line to the
east has been sent forward for good
tains info the German front, accord
ing io London. Valuable work was
J ine rv tlia now armored tractors In
the llAhtincr.
In ihu Oharmagne region the Ger-
imn.s ncrordinsr to Paris, attempted i
two .vjrnri5: attacks against the
Fipm-'h. 1 nt both of them failed. j
P'i!t further pains for the British and I
Fr-neh troops north of the Somme j
river in France are chonicled in the.
latest otiif"i communications trom
London and Paris.
Th- Ocrmans have been cleired out
of Tnfsi ions near the Stuff redoubt
w"'"K''i they had held since the heavy
f i-h'imr of ast weok ami also have
! t-r-n fr.-fifl to 'give up all except a
r" sin VI portion of tli Schwa ben re-(i-.'.i'-t
in 'i's region. s: In addition to
!- ."! bptf"on T.e Rears and Fleers
:.,. of (',-"( ' Sir : .!!''!: Ttaig
v . r,T,r.sf-j f r-v.-f 1 th-"'ir pn -it ions.
Fing H'rv7f; v iili'h'- and Su'vlny
If rrr.pn, trt.,-.T-.js.jf.n--ov.Hl and Clery
': " lri- !' h -'.'1-' i-f the French dur-
r:;r;"rJ73 however, that attacks
"rv ih Frif -1 cnt of Thlepval and j
i... r; ,;.,(.;, jn the" vicinity of Bin-i
co'v-t, rn;i'?'i )'.o. MVrva! and Hallo
V''-'!-r r' -v'ad. The activity around
lr'!'"r rr-:"." i,-,'1!'"Fe the commencement;
r.f or e 'o drive with L'eronne as i
it ol' ire. !
f.i r;;je!a the Ttttssinns have started I
r roth"r :; o 'fiT.-'.ve with -the pv.r-
I'or- of drl'-ing on to Lemoerir
The i
offfiil reports from Pei.;'0'-:rad s.:id
Berlin vary cepce'-ninrr the result' of
tre Iic-fct:nr. Betrograd reports that
thirty miles rortheiist of lumbers,
plor.r the Erody-Krasne railway the
Riipfiians arc fo-cing aheir way for-".,-ard
drsnite the stubborn resistance
of the Teutonic allies and have cap
tured 1,987 officers and men. Also
south of T'rzezany, fifty miles south
west ot Lcmbcrg, and along the right
T'enk of the Zlota-T.ipa Gorman-Austrian
positions are reported to have
CHURCH FLOCR CCLLAFSED
DURING SUNDAY SERVICE.
Fifty-three Persons Were Injured at
Johnson City, N. Y.
Binghamton. N. V., Oct. 1. Fifty
three persons were injured this after
noon when the floor of the First Pres
byterian church of Johnson City col
lapsed during the services being held
in connection with tlie'aying of the
cornerstone. Seven' of this number are
seriously hurt, but it is believed all
will recover. .
Two hundred and fifty persons were
hurled into the basement IS feet below
when the floor grave way, and it was
neary a half hour before all had been
removed. The spealers were in their
thairs and the ban:! was playing 'he
opening number when the accident
happened. There was no warnings the
slender limber supporting the floor
Liiving, way almost in an insrapfT
The floor was a temporary one, con
structed merely to care for the dedica
tion crowd.
TWENTY DEATHS FROM
STARVATION IN TWO DAYS
In Lampzascs. Mexico, Eighty Miles
from Texa3 Border.
Laredo, Tot., Oct. 1. Deplorable
conditions exist in Latnpzasss, eighty
miios from the border, in the state
( f Netiva Leon, where twenty deaths
from starvation occurred in two days,
according to a Texas ranchman arriv
ing from there today. At least half
of the- crops, which are said to have
been good, have been confiscated by
the government for military purposes,
the rancher stated, adding that since
his last visit to his ranch 300 head of
cattle had been stolen. The poorer
women in Lampzasos are unable to
clothe themselves in a modest way
and children of both sexes are virtu
ally naked, the arrival said.
RED CROSS ASKS FOR
USE OF A WARSHIP
To Transmit Supplies to Syria Con
tributions Days Oct. 21 and 22. .
Washington, Oct. 1. Use of a Unit
ed tates warship to transmit relief
suppiies to Syriana was sought yes
teilay from the. navy department by
Red Cross officials and Secretary S.
T. Lutton of the American committee
on American and Syrian relief. It is
expected that enough supplies will b9
contributed to load a gunboat or cruis
er. General contributions will bo
asked October 21 and 22. special days
designed for that purpose by .Presi-Wilson.
HAVE PUSHED FORWARD
been taken and 112 officers and 2,268
men made prisoners.
Berlin asserts that the Russian
forces along the Brody-Lemperg rail-
way were stopped by the artillery of I
the Teutons. But on the southern wing !
Berlin admits the Russians gained a i
foothold and also advancing in the
angle between the Tzeniuuvka and
Zlota Lipa river.
In the Carpathians, in the Ludowa
sector, the Austrians have turned to
the offensive a.nd, according to Vienna,
in an attack captured four Russian
otiicers and 532 men and tight machine
guns.
The Rumanian theatre
is witnessing
The number
only local engagements.
of prisoners taken by the army of Gen
evan Von r alkenhuyn in the Hermann
stadt region exceeded 3,000. Thirteen
guns and large quantities of supplies
also were captured, Including SU0 rail
road cars laden with munitions.
In Macedonia the Serbians, after
days of bluer fighting, have at last
captured the Kaimakcalan height in
(he Greek-.eSerfoian bolder from the
Bulgarians. The British on the Stru- ;
ma have taken a portion of the Bul-
u-ian line near the Orljak bridge. ,
ANOTHER ZEFELiN RAID
ON COAST OF ENGLAND.
One of the Airships -P'ought .Down .in
Fiances NdrifF'crf London.
London, Oct. 2, 12.15 a. m. Another
Zappe'.in iaia against London and the
eaiit coast ot Ln-iland is in progress.
An airship is reported to have been
brought down in flames north of Lon
don, ac ioramg to the offij.al statt
nun i:;.;ue-.i siiortiy after midnight.
The statement reads:
"A uumcor of hostile airships cross
ed the -ast coast between ! o'clock
and midnight. A lev.- bombs were
enopped near the coast, out no damage
is yet reported.
"The raid is still in. progress and
some, airships are in the vicinity of
London, where some gwis have been
in action.
"An airship is reported brought down
in flames north of London."
Great crowds cheered the spectacle
of the burning Zeppelin as it fell in
the London district. The great flare
from the burning aircraft was visible
a long distance.
HUGHES VELL PLEASED
VITH HiS CAMPAIGN '
in New York After Two Weeks' lour
of Middle West.
New York, Oct. 1. Charles E.
Hughes, republican presidential nom
inee, returned here today after his two
weeks' tour of the middle west -and
parts of New York.
itr. Hughes plans to remain here un-s.
til Wednesday, when he will go to
some, nearby towns yet to be determin.
ined for a few days' rest before start
ing 'October 9 on his third campaign
tour which is expected to take him as
far west as Nebraska. Tuesday night
he will be the guest of honor at a re
ception here at the Union League club
at
which "Former Presidents Roose- (
veit and Taft will be present.
Upon his arrival here today Mr.
Hughes expressed himself as well sat
isfied with the progression of his cam
paign. He is a trifle hoarse from
speech-making but expects that his
voice will be in good condition again
when he begins hi snext tour.
VALUE OF PAPER AND
WOOD PULP MANUFACTURES
Director of Census Rogers Places it
at $332,147,000 in 1914.
Washington, Sept. 30. Paper and
wood pulp manufactures were valued
at $332,140,000 in 1914, an increase of
24. F- per cent, over 1909, according to
announcement today by Director Rog
ers of the census bureau in- a prelim
inary statement of the 1914 census cf
manufactures. The number of estab
lishments operating was 71'8, a de
crease of 59 from 1909. Persons en
gaged in the industry numbered 95,510,
an increase of 17.2 per cent.; capital
invested was $534,625,000, an increase
of 30.6 per cent,; salaries and wages
paid $66,164,0'J0-, an increase of 31.5
per cent.; materials used $213,181,000,
an increase of 28.9 per cent., and value
added toy manufacture $118,966,000, an
increase of 16.4 per cent.
INDEPENDENT VOTERS'
DAY AT SHADOW LAWN.
President Wilson Has Designated Next
Saturday for That Purpose.
New York. Oct. 1. President Wilson
has designated next Saturday as Inde
pendent Voters' day at Shadow Lawn,
the national democratic committee an
nounced tonight. The pilgrimage to
Long Branch will be under the au
spices of the AVoodrow Wilson Inde
pendent league, of which Representa
tive W. S. Kent of California is chairman.
Paragraphs
,ssinian Emperor Deposed. '
x ,ndon, Oct. 1. Emperor Lidj Jeas
: ''of Abyssinia has been deposed at
Addis Ababa. Lidj Jeassu is 22 years
old and a grandson of Emperor DVIene
like,: whom he succeeded in 1315.
British Schooner Sunk.
'London, Oct. 1, 7.44 p. m. The Brit
ish .schooners William George, 181
tons, and Pe&rl of Truro, 144 tons, and
the Norwegian sch-ooner Manuel of
Tonsberg- have been sunk-
Norwegian Steamer Torpedied.
London, Oct. 1. 9.15 p.' m. The Nor
wegian steamer Holf Jarl, 1,265 tons,
has been torpedoed, according to a
Reuter despatch from Trondhjam. The
crew was saved.
British Losses 3,800 a Day.
London, Sept. 30, 10.55 p. m. Brit
ish losses in September were at the
rate of more than 3,800 it day. The
casualties on all fronts reported in this
month were: Officers 5,439; men 114,
110. PRESIDENT WILSON RECEIVES
CONGRATULATORY MESSAGES
On His. Speoch at Shadow Lawn Sat
urday Aiso About His Rebuke of
O'Leary.
Long Branch, N. J., Oct. 1. So many
messages congratulating President
Wilson on his speech, hero yesterday
were received by him today that he
has decided to follow the same gen
eral line in future addresses at Shadow
Lawn. His speeches in Omaha., Indian
apolis, Chicago and New York, which
will be bel'oie non-partisan organiza
tions, wiil be less political in tone.
Arrangements were completed today
for the president's trip to Omaha, be
ginning Tuesday. lie will arrive in
Omaha Thursday morning and .will re
main there until 10 o'clock that night,
returning to Long Branch Saturday.
1-Jenry Ford ox Detroit, who recently
came out in support of Mr. Wilson for
another term, has been invited to visit
the president he-re, and will lunch with
him tomorruw. I'rosoects for neace in i
i Kuropo are expected to be discussed I nomination after one term to, take up
i Representative Pattou of New York I the practice of law in Little Rock. In
' li.so will see "the president tomorrow. I W0S he was elected United States sen-
iIr Wilson received a number of i ator and was re-elected in lyua and in
; telegrams today bearing on hU mes- I 1915- He was elected president pro
! sage to Jeremiah O'Leary, president of i tempore or the senate m 1913 and re
j the American Truth society, telling ! ejected m IUId. His present teim as
him he wanted no "disloyal" Amen- i
(aW. tn vm tor i . ., r.f th '
telegrams praised lir. Wilson for his
star.j, out a few criticized him. state
ments made by a brother of Mr.
tj1L.;?arV iti.i.t snii .'jilorJil lie hrnr.frht
against ihe president for libel were!
received iishtiy by administration ofil-
ciais. comment was made on tiie
'.jUes'don except that the president' par-:-onal;y
handled the telegaam to Mr.
O'Leary and stands back of the mes
sage. A BLEND OF PETROLEUM
PRODUCTS TO SAVE EXPENSE
To Take the Place of Straight Gasoline
Usedjay Motsristt;
New York, Oct. 1. A blend of pe
troleum products to save the fuel bills
of motorists, to take the place of the
straight gasolene lroni which he said
i the yare getting less than 50 per cent.
enicieiiey, was proposed here j-esteraay
by .Dr. iiaymond i Faeon, director of
tne iUelun institute for Industrial re
search of the L'niversitjpf Pittsburgh. ,
ur. i:acon, wno is an autnority on pe
troicum products, was speaking before;
the Industrial conference held by the :
chemists here in connection with the
annual gatchi'ing of the American
Chemical society. lie condemned :
commercial "gasolene savers." ,
"Any one who catches the odor from ;
gasolene engines can tell that the full 1
efficiency of the gasolene is not be- i
ins applied" he said. "A blend of I
cnatmd head gaso.ene with some j Senator Clarke'e revolt against the
heavier naphthalene product is bet- ; eight hour Dill was a typical manifes
ter tnan stiaight out gasolene. 1 have , tation of a stern independence which
matte tests with various gasolene ri,rartpri! itHt,o tt,,,,
savers
but have found none of. the :
market I can recommend.
TllC are
not only valueless, but
make matters worse."
frequently j
THREE
MYSTERIOUS DEATHS
AT LANCASTER, OHIO.
Women
Found Dead Sitting Upright
in Rocking Chairsp.
Lancaster, O., Oct. 1. Neighbors of
Agnes and Alice Smetter, maiden sis
ters, aged 48 and 50 years, respective
ly, seeing no activity about the home
of the two women today, entered the
house tonight and found the two wom
en and Miss Jlary Stretton, 31, a vis
itor, sitting erect in rocking chairs
and all three dead. There was no sign
of violence or poisoning and an exam
ination of the gas pipes revealed no
lea.ks. Ivledical attention revealed no
cause for the deaths, and the bodies
have been token charge of by the cor
oner.
, That death had come quietly was
evidenced by the fact that one of the
sisters .had 'her glasses on and was
holding a newspaper. There was no
food in the house except half of an ap
ple pie, and this showed no sign of
poison.
OBITUARY.
Loyal Farragut.
Ashfield, Mass., Oct. 1. Loyal Far
ragut, son of the late Admiral David
Glasgow Farragut, died at his sum
mer home here today of chronic heart
trouble, aged 73. Mr. Farragut had
spent his summers here for thirty
years and during the winter had lived
at 113 East 86th street, New York, in
the house which was presented to his
father by the people of New York city.
He was appointed to a eadetship at
West Point by President Lincoln. Aft
er serving for a time in the army, he
accepted a position with the New
York Central railroad, retiring after
the death of his wife in 1896. He was
his father's biographer.
George E. Hill.
Bridgeport, Conn., Sept. 30. George
E. Hill, a leader of the Fairfield coun
ty bar, former president of the State
Ear Association and many times hon
ored by selection by election to vari
ous offices, died Saturday in his 52d
year. He had served for two years as
a trustee of the Connecticut company
jwhich took over the trolley holdings
of the New York. New Haven and
Hartford Railroad company.
Alexander Angus.
Hartford, Conn., Oct. 1. Alexander
Angus, a well known carpenter and
builder, died tonight at the age of 70.
Ho was the first man to work on the
staging when the dome of the capital
was built. For eight years he was
president of the Hartford Central La
bor union. He was chairman of the
Washington school district,
a.nsl two nhildrAn aurvive.
His wife
Death of Senator V
James P. Clarke
OCCURRED AT HIS HOME IN LIT
TLE ROOK, ARK. i
STROKE OF APOPLEXY
Was Stricken Last Friday Evening
Was President Pro Tempore of the
Senate Was Elected Governor of
Arkansas. in 1834. '
Little Rock, Ark., Oct. 1. .United
States Senator James P. Clarke, pres
ident iprotempore of the United. States
senate, died at his home here today.
Senator Clarke suffered a stroke of
apoplexy Friday and never regained
sensibility. Physicians and members
of his family, however, minimized the
seriousness of his condition so that
the news of his death came as a shock.
His physician said the senator first
complained of feeling ill when ne re
truned home from his law office on
Wednesday afternoon. His Indisposi
tion continued Thursday and Friday
and the stroke of apoplexy occurred
about six o'clock Friday evening.
Began Practice of Law in 1879.
Senator Clarke was born in Yazoo
City, Miss., Aug. 18, 1854. He was ed
ucated in the schools of his native
state and in 1878 was graduated from
the law department of the University
of Virginia. He began the practice of
law in Helena, Ark., in 1879.
Advancement Was Rapid.
Entering politics Mr. Clarke was ad
vanced rapidly, from legislator in 1SS6
to state senator in 1S88 to tne presi-
dency of the state senate in 1891 and I
to attorney-general in 1892
He was
elected governor in 1894, declining re-
united estates senator wouia not nave
expired until Harch 4, 1621. .
Senator Clarke was married in Hel
ena on rsov. lo, lssd, to Miss Aiiie
l Jloore. She and a son and two daugh
' ters survive.
iPP.ESIDED OVER CLOSING
SESSIONS OF THE SENATE
Left Washington a Few Weeks Ago
Apparently in Good Health.
Washington, Oct. 1. Senator Clarke
had been president pro tempore of the
senate since the democratic party
ga.Ucxl control in 1013. He was chosen
by the party caucus to succeed the
late. Senator Krye of Maine, after a
i.srl5alSti.ctertid-- fas.-rft-jgfStd -'&
despite determined opposition based on
his sensational revolt against the ad
ministration ship purchase bill in the
previous campaign.
Senator Clarke left Washington a
few weeks ago apparently in good
health. In the closing days of the last
session he presided over the senate
owing to the absence , of Vice Presi-
dent Marshall. The railroad eight
hour bill which prevented the nation
wide strike was passed with Senator
Clarke in the chair but he was one of
two democratic senators to vote
against the measure and he refused to
sign it. He appointed Senator Hughes
as acting president pro tempore when
the bill was presented at the presid
ing officer's chair for signature.
An Independent Career.
fh thirfn ocro nf H Mti,i
popv TT wn manv timpo the loo1-.r
jn opposition to measures DroDosed bv
nis party. ine climax or his inde
pendence was reached when he led the
democratic revolt against the ship
purchase bill which gave new life to
the republican filibuster against the
measure and made its passage impos
sible. When the bill was re-introduced
during the last session, however,
with the. government ownership and
operation features to which Senator
Clarke objected revised and modified,
he supported it.
Proposed Independence for Philippines.
The Arkansas senator during the
last session again surprised his col
leagues when he proposed the amend
ment to the Philippine bill which
would give absolute independence to
the islands in four years.
The administration endorsed ' the
amendment and it was adopted by the
senate. The house, however, refused
to accept it.
Senator Clarke acted for several
years as chairman of the important
committee on commerce. He also was
the ranking democratic member of the
foreign relations committee and the
committee on military affairs.
BATTERIES ARE BREAKING
CAMP AT TOBYHANNA
Connecticut Artillerymen Probably
Will Start Today For El Paso.
Tobyhanna, Pa., Oct. 30. All is ac
tivity at the United States artillery
camp of instruction here, where the
remaining batteries are arranging to
break camp. The men have spent the
entire summer in camp anu their
health is fine but the weather on tho
mountain tops is cold.
Battery C, of New Jersey expects to
entrain .Sunday evening for' Douglas,
Ariz., while E and F of Connecticut
probably will start today for Ey Paso.
The members of these batteries have
passed every examination and have
had the hardest kind of training dur
ing the summer. A battery of Mary
land troops is to be mustered out of
the service probaTbly on Monday.
These activities concluded the Toby
hanna camp will be closed for the win
ter after one of the busiest summers
in its history.
FREIGHT CARS CRASHED
INTO CROWDED STREET CAR.
Thirteen Persons Were Killed and 23
Injured in Detroit.
Detroit, alien., Oct. 1. Thirteen per
sons were killed and more than 23 in
jured, several probably fatally, late
tonight when a switch engine pushing
two freight cars crashed into a crowd
ed street car at Forest avenue an-3
Dequender ' street on the east side.
There were more than 90 persons -in
the street car, many of them returning
'rom tne Theatres.
Wants Dairy men s
League
APPEAL SENT TO ATTORNEY
GENERAL OF NEW YORK STATE
INTIMIDATION CLAIMED
A Milk Famine is Threatened in New
York City as a Result of Differences
Between the Distributors and tha
Farmers.
New Yorkl Oct. 1. Alleging that
the Dairymen's League, an organiza
tion of farmers of four states who
have refused to renew contracts with
the large, milk distributing companies
in this city, is "a combination in re
straint of trade," Loton Horton, presi
dent of the Sheffield Farms-Slawson-Decker
company, tonight appealed to
Attorney General Woodbury of New
York state for an official investiga
tion. Milk Famine Threatened.
A milk famine is threatened here as
a result of the differences between the
distributors, among them Mr. Horton's
company, and the farmers, who claim
they cannot produce milk profitably at
the price paid them under contracts
which expired today.' .
illegal Plan is lleged.
In a letter to Attorney General
Woodbury, Mr. Horton pointed out
that the Dairymen's League was in
corporated in New Jersey, but "has
never procured a certificate entitling
It to do business, in this state." He
charged tnat it is iri no sense a co
operative organization, . but a stock
Corporation of the usual type," com-
bining an "illegal plan of monapoliz
pig tne sale of milk to the consumers
and dealers of New ork with a s-oek
selling scheme." '
Fake Pretences Claimed. .
Having entered into a large number
of contracts with farmers for their
supply of milk, the Dairymen's
League, Mr. Horton declared, had
turned over the contracts to John J.
Dillon, state commissioner of foods
and markets. Mr. Dillon, it is charged
by Mr. Horton, "falsely pretends, that,
in acting as agent for this conspiracy,
he rs doing so as the agent of the
state and in ' an ' official capacity he is
seeking to increase the price of nec
essaries of life to the consumers of
Mew York city." .
Intimidation is Charged.
Mr. Horton further alleges that in
parts of this state "organized attempts
at intimidation of producers" who seek
to deliver their milk to the big distri
buting companies "are being inaugu
rated" to prevent deliveries to them
and force jthem to purchase all milk
from ...Mi;... Di lkn.t. . increa sed price. ...
" Commissioner Dillon said tonight he
hoped the attorney general would in
vestigate the entire milk situation and
declared that the dairymen have a
"perfect right to appoint whatever
agent or agents they want to sell their
milk in the city."
Been Violating Law for 40 Years.
"As to violating the law," Mr. Dillon
said, "the miik dealers of this ciiy
have been violating laws for the last
40 years. If the attorney general will
only make an investigation the public
will benefit in the end. I am only
doing my duty finding a market for
farm products."
HUNDREDS OF QUARTS OF
MILK THROWN INTO HIGHWAYS
By Pickets of Dairymen's League in
the Vicinity of Brewster.
4
Brewster, N. Y.. Oct. 1. Hundreds of
quarts of miik, on the way to the lo
cal plants of distributors in this vicin
ity, were thrown into the highways to
day by pickets of ; the dairymen's
league. Groups of farmers stood at
every crossroad to stop farmers who
had refused to join the league, and
who were sending milk to the big deal
ers. Wagon after wagon was halted,
the cans were roiled from the wagons
and the contents spilled over the
ground, with the result that virtually
no milk was received at any of the
local plants.
CARMEN IN ALBANY TO
STRIKE THIS MORNING
Because Company Refused to Rein
state a Discharged Motorman.
" Albany, N. Y., Oct. 1. A 'strike' of
880 employes of the United Traction
company, operating cars in Albany,
Rennselaer and Watervliet,. was called
tonight to begin at 5 o'clock tomorrow
morning. The Albany local of the
Amalgamated Association of Street
and .Electric Railway Employes took
the action after the officials of the
traction company refused to reinstate
a motorman who had been disciplined
on a charge of running past a "dead"
stop. The employes insisted that the
man's accusers be made to appear at a
public hearing, and the company re
fused the demand.
The men then offered to arbitrate the
cpuestion of whether an employe could
be disciplined only on written com
plaints of citizens. While the com
pany offered to do this in the present
ease, the officials refused to arbitrate
she question a.s having any bearing on
its future action.
Union officials today said union em
ployes of the United Traction com
pany, in Troy and nearby cities prob
ably would be asked to strike in sym
pathy with the Albany union.
MOTHER AND DAUGHTER
ASPHYXIATED AT QUINCY
Woman Le,ft Note Saying She Wished
No Sympathy.
Quincy, Mass., Sept. 30. The death
by gas asphyxiation of Mrs. Mary
Pearson and her daughter Edith, a girl
of 12 years, was discovered yesterday.
A note written by Mrs. .Pearson said
she "wished no- sympathy from the
community." She had met with fi
nancial reverses recently in connection
with a restaurant which she conduct
ed here.
Movements of Steamships.
New York, Oct. 1. Arrived: Steam
ers Themistocles, Piraeus; Philadel
phia, Liverpool; Finland, Liverpool;
Nieuw Amsterdam, Rotterdam. Sailed:
Steamer Czaritza, Archangel.
India yearly devotes 75,000,000 acres
to rice growing.
Condensed Telearams
Charles D. McGuffey,
Chattanoga, is dead.
historian
of
Sir William Henry Dunn was elect
ed Lord Mayor of London.
Dr. a Magman, one of the fore
most alienists in France, is dead.
Daylight in Great Britain will be put
back one hour from 3 a. m. Oct. 1,
General von Wahde!, deputy war
minister for Germany, has been dis
missed. Palmer Basworth, 14, of Tampa, Fla,
died of injuries received during a foot
ball game.
The tug Eugene F. Moran started
for Halifax and from there will cross
the -Atlantic.
Ian Hay Baith, British soldier and
writer, arrived at New York on the
White Star liner Baltic.
Sergt. Y. Santee, Company K 3rd
Infantry, of Hornell, shot himself dead
in Camp Whithman, N. Y.
United States submarine L-17 was
launched at Long Beach, Cal., by the
California Shipbuilding Co.
Christopher Price, one of the crew of
the Monitor in her fight with the Mer
rimack in the Civil War, dead.
The War Department has no dis
patches relating to the alleged killing
of three American troopers near Indio.
A b5mb was hurled in a book store
at Valparaiso University, Ind., smash
ing a window and shattering part of
the wall.
General Funston reported to the
War Department that Mexicans are
crossing the Rio Gaande
detachments.
in small I
A machine which records every mo-
I tion of the heart was exhibited be
fore American X-Ray Society's con
vention at Chicago.
Branches of the Deutsche Asiatiche
Bank of Yokohama and Kobe have
been closed and are now under guard
of 'apanese soldieas.
Dr. Lewis Cole of New York, was
chosen president of the American
Roentgen Ray Society at its annual
convention at Chicago.
riTty guests had narrow escapes
when the Metropolitan Annex Hotel
at Harrisburg, Pa., was damaged by
fire at a loss of $10,060. !
President Wilson arrangsd to
sume conferences with newspaper men,
which were a feature of the lir;;t two
years of his administration.
o i r .ilbie" liner decked.
Peter Peterson was crushed to deatl. The first intimation of Are was when
under a. four-ton machine in the fuc-.; smoke v,as seen pouring from a hatch
tory of the Automatic Machine Pro- i ,,..,,. -;;,.e.edy under the steerage
ducts. .Co., of-,-feeit..-.Bj;oaKJ!m..... s -. ' I giMn nAtn .ftV" Th- officers it was
Joseph N. Tockett, Jr., of Baltimore,
instructor in the department of econ
omics at Dartmouth College shot
himself dead in the college park.
Two Chinese were arrested at the
West Shore ferry, Forty-second St.,
and North River, New York, by de
tectives, charged with possessing opi
um. ainst
Pennsylvania's quarantine
admission of children under 16 into
that state without certificates of free
dom from infantile paralysis was
raised.
Members cf the prohibition coast-to-coast
campaign party rested at Wich
ita, Kas., preparatory to beginning to
day the last week of their tour west of
Chicago.
Secretary of the Interior Lans.
chairman of he American commi ssion
to setue tne Mexican border problem,
aaneu on nie navai yacnt eyipn
New York.
for
A further war credit of $5C,Q00,CC0
has been established at Ottawa for the
purpose of financing purchases by th
Imperial Government of munitions ad
supplies in Canada,
Orders were received from Ottawa
to release the Boston smack K. Mc
Michol which was seized a few days
ago on the charge of fishing within
the three-mile limit.
The Department of Labor has given
Sergeant Major Robert Middlemass, a
British soldier who had been blinded
in battle, permission to remain six
months longer in this country.
Damage estimated at $10,OCO was
done when a huge granite monument
being set in place in the cemetery of
the Miriam Osborne Memorial Home
at Harrison, N. H., toppled over.
Dr. George B. Wilson, commandant
of the naval hospital at Chelsea, Mass.,
died yesterday after . a brief illness,
aged 53. Before coming here in 1912
he was surgeon of the Asiatic fleet.
Eliseo Arredondo, Mexican ambassador-designate
to the United States,
who arrived at Mexico City from tho
United States, had an interview with
General Carranza. The subject under
discussion was not announced.
William J. Carr, director of the Con
sular service, will leave for .England
from New York on board the American
Line steamship New York to make an
ins pection of American , consulates in
Europe.
Post office officials and officers of
the Michigan Centra Railroad an
nounced that rewards totaling $4,000
will be paid for the capture of the
bandts who held up the' New York
Chicago express ten miles from De
troit. The Interstate Commerce Commis
sion suspended until Jan. 29 a pro
nnspd advance of 50 ner cent, in rnit-
road rates on iron and steel articles
trom the Pittsburgh district . to At
lantic and Gulf ports when designed
for export.
Fifty workmen employed at Shares'
brickyards in North Haven were, driven
from their large wooden lodging house
by a fire early yesterday morning.
Several had narrow escapes. The
building was destroyed. The origin of
the biaze is not known.
Villa Moving Southeast.
El Paso, Tex., Oct. .1. Reports re
ceived today from Chihuahua through
private sources stated that Vi'la ami
his bandits were- moving southeast
from Cusihuiriachio toward Satevo, 50
miles south of Chihuahua City.
KERB IRE RIOTOUS IN YONKERS
Jroke All the Windows of 'a Car and Severely Bruised
the Motorman and Conductor
EFFORT TO RUN SURFACE
The Entire Police Force of yonkers, 200 Men, Was Called
Out to Quell the Riot Several Persons Were Hurt, But
None Seriously- A Score of Arrests Were Made No
Further Effort Will be Made to Resume the Service Un-
til Tuesday or Wednesday Rioting Also Has Occurred
in Mount Vernon, Where Unsuccessful Attempts Were
Made to Run Cars.
New York, Oct. 1. Rioting occurred
today when an attempt was made by
the Yonkers Railroad company, whose
men are on strike, to run surface cars
from Yonkers to the Van Cortlandt
Park terminus of New York's sub
way system. One of two cars which
left the barns in Yonkers succeeded in
reaching the subway, but not until the
motorman and conductor had been se
verely bruised ftnd all windows of the
car broken by flying bricks and other
missiles. The other car was forced to
return to tho barns, after strikers and
their sympathizers had stormed .it tor
several minutes.
The entire police force of Yonkers,
numbering 200. was called out to quell
the riot. A score of arrests were made.
Several persons were .hurt in the
melee, but none seriously.
Although service on ail surface car.
FIRE IN HOLD OF THE
STEAMSHIP PHILADELPHIA
Eroke Out While the Vessel Was
About S00 Miles from New York.
New York, Oct. 1. Fire which broke
out in the. cargo hold of the American
line steamship Philadelphia Thursday,
while the vessel was approximately
$00 miles from this port, still was
i Vmou. dering undtr a blanket of steam
I when she arrived here today.' So Sucre-
! ...ovQ ttin nffioovta srid e.rev.r in
keeping the news from the 648, pas-
j sc-ngers, that tew were aware oi tne
i peril thev had been in until after the
said, removed the 343 steerage pas
sengers at once and took precautions
to keep the news from spreading to
the first' and second cabin pnssengers.
j While it was asserted the blaze was
i got under control quickly, no time' was
; lost in steaming to port. The officers
, were, uncommunicative today and few
1 cf t!' details could be learned. How
i the fire started, it was said, has not
! been determined. Flooding of the hbld
I checked the flames, according to the
crew.
The Philadelphia left Liverpool on
Saturday, Sept. 23.
THREE MORE ARRESTS OF
MAN N ACT BLACKMAILERS
Two Men and a Woman Taken in Raid
of Apartment in Chicago.
Chicago, Oct. 1. Two more men and
a woman, were arrested by agents of
the department of justice in a raid on
a private apartment here early today
and held in connection with the oper
ations of the great Mann act black
mailers' syndicate recently brought to
light by federal officers.
Pursuing their investigation of the
case of a wealthy merchant of Cedar
Rapids, Iowa, who is alleged to have
been done out of $15,000 by the syndt
cate, federal officials today took pos
session of a packet of letters said to
have been written by the merchant to
two Chicago girls whom . he charges
with having lured him to their apart
ment in Chicago where the blackmail
was exacted. Attorneys for the girls
contend that the Iow-a man wronged
his clients and paid them $15,000 as
recompense.
PRICE OF MILK IS
RAISED IN BOSTON.
Contest on Between Producers and
Eoston Contractors.
Boston, Oct. 1. At the close of the
first- day of the contest in which miik
producers of New England are trying
to secure three cents more for an 16
1-2 quart can than Boston contractors
have offered, both sides claimed vic
tory tonight. The contractors said
that 80 per cent, of the farmers had
delivered their milk. Representatives
of the producers asserted that at least
one-half of the normal sales to con
tractors had dropped off. The .price
of miik to tiie consumer was advanced
from nine cents to -ten cents a quart
today. - v
GREEK CROWN COUNCIL,
MAY REACH DECISION TODAY
Regarding Entry Into War Rioting
on the Island of Zante.
Athens, Saturday, Sept. 30, via Lon
don, Oct. 1, 4.42 a. m. It is expected
that the postponed session of the
Crown council at which a decision re
garding the entry of Greece into the
war may be reached, will be held to
day. - . . ,
Rioting is reported on the Greek is
land of Zante between Reservists and
! followers of Former Premier Venize
losis.
MRS. SMALL WAS SHOT
AND THEN STRANGLED
Fire
Was Set to House to
Conceal
Evidence of the Crime.
Mountain view, N. H., Sept. 30. The
person who killed Mrs. . Florence A.
Small andset fire to hei home to con
ceal evidence of toe crime, first shot
ser, strangled her and beat ser over
the head, Medical Referee B. Frank
Horne said yesterday. His statement
was made after discovery of a bulle
in the woman's head and the finding
in the ruins of a revolver of calibre
similar to that of the bullet.
CARS WAS GIVEN UP j
subway and elevated railway lines In
the city is again nearly normal, and
officials of the companies declare that
the strike which began September 6
has failed, no attempts were made un
til today to operate care in Yonkers.
After the rioting, officers of the Yon
kers Railroad company announced that
further effort would be made to re
sume service until Tuesday or Wed
nesday. Rioting also occurred today in Mount
Vernon, where unsuccessful attempts
were made to operate cars. Mayor
Eiske of that city, who personally aid
ed the police in quieting the disturb
ances, announced tonight that unless
the situation changes he will ask that
the militia be called out.
Mayor Lennon of Yonkers said he
had not decided whether to ask the
governor for the militia to deal with
the situation in that city.
TO APPEAR BEFORE THE
AMERICAN -MEXICAN COM.
Representatives of American Mining
Interests in Mexico.
Atlantic City, N. J., Oct. 1. Repre
sentatives of the more important
American mining interests in Mexico
are expected to appear . before the
American members of the Mexican
American joint commission here to
morrow in support of a' memorandum
already submitted regarding condi
tions in Mexico.. Before they are re
ceived the commissioners will hold
their first joint session in continua
tion of the conference begun at New
London four, weeks ago.
Consideration of plans for the main
tenance of peace along the American
Mexican border will be resumed but
reports which continue to arrive of
Villa's activity in Chihuahua may .
I serve as a further delay to agreement
The commissioners make no secret of
the fact that failure of General Car
rana's forces to run down Villa has
proved embarrassing to them in con
sidering means for improving border
conditions.
It was considered probable tonight
that General Carranza's latest elec
toral decree would be discussed to
morrow. A copy of the decree has
reached the American commissioners
from Washington and while details of
the document have not been revealed,
it is said to stipulate that none of
those connected even remotely with
the Huerta administration shall have
the right to vote at the coming" ,presi
dential election. .
Another subject that will be dis
cussed more fully this week will be
the closing of the National Bank and
the Bank of London and Mexico.
MANUFACTURERS OF AUTOS
AND AUTOMOBILE PARTS
Sows Increase of 153.9 Per Cent. In
Past Five Years.
Washington, Oct. 1. Manufacturers
of automobiles and automobile parts
showed an increase of 153.9 per cent,
in the five years from 1909 to . 1914.
Preliminary statistics of the 1914 man.
ufacturers census announced yesterday
ijy Samuel L. Rogers, director of the
census show the value of those pro
ducts in 1914 was $632,831,000, an in
crease og $383,629,000 over 1909.
x Persons engaged in the industry
numbered 145,591, an increase of 7J
per cent over 1909. Capital invested
amounted to $467,730,000, an increase
of 134.5 per cent,, and salaries and
wages paid aggregated $139,453,000, an
increase of 139.7 per cent.
Materials cost $356,208,000, an in
crease of 170.6 per cent., and value
added by manufacture was $276,625,000.
TRAIN DERAILED WHEN
PISTON ROD BROKE
Engineer and Fireman Killed on the
Pennsylvania Line.
Cincinnati, O., Oct. 1. When a pis
ton rod on the first engine of train 1231
on the Pennsylvania line, New York
to Cincinnati, broke yesterday, the
train left the track and partially over
turned. The engineer and fireman on
the first train were killed, whi! the
crew of the second engine were in
jured. Five pa.sengers were bruised
but none was seriously hurt. The
wrecked train was of steel coaches,
drawn by two engines. About 1,500
feet of track was torn up.
SHOT HIS WIFE AND
THEN KILLED HIMSELF
Joseph Talis of Pittsfield, Mass., Com
mitted the Crime in the Street.
Pittsfield, Mass., Qct. 1. Joseph Ta
lis shot and probably fatally wounded
his wife while she was on her way to
work early yesterday and then killed
himself. The shooting, according to
the police, was due to the woman's
refusal to adjust differences which
had caused a separation of the couple
for several years. Four bullets en
tered, her head and chest and physi
cians said there was little hop of her
recovery. . . . -
Hartford Barbers Call Strike Off.
Hartford, Conn., Oct. 1. The threat
ened strike of 200 local barbers, wmch
was called, for S - o'clock tomorrow
nornlng, was declared off tonight. Th
barbers said the employers had ac
ceded to their demands of a minimum
weekly wage of $13, with a rising cal
for length of service. , ,.
..-J ....':m. yliirti aim jit
