THE WEATHER FORECAST.
Fair to-day and to-morrow; warmer to
morrow; moderate, variable winds.
Hlgheat temperature yesterday, 60; lowest, 41.
Detailed weather, mail and marine reports on page 10.
Stilt.""
IT SHINES FOB ALL
VOL. LXXXIV. NO. 32.
NEW YORK, MONDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1916. Copyright, IHt, by the Hun Printing and PuhUthlng Auortatlon.
ONE CENT
la Greater New YewV, Klsrwhere "1
Jersey Cttt and Newark, i TWO CUNTS. J
BRITISH SEIZE
TOWN; SWEEP
OH TO BAPAUME
Advance Rcsistles9ly on a
Front of One and a
Half Miles.
"TANKS" USED AGAIN
WITH GBEAT SUCCESS
Eaucnnrt I'Abbaye Cap
tured and Centre Pushed
Nearer Objective.
TAKE 300 PRISONERS
IN THE ENCOUNTER
Allies' Line Now Straight
ened Attack on Le
Sars Near.
London, Oct. 1. Along a front of a
mile and a half British troop have ad
vanced toe centre of their line on the
Soame front straight toward Bapaume
ui4 taken the village of Eaucourt l'Ab
bare. Again the armored tanka helped
the Drltl.h Infantry, the War Oftlce an
nsutices. More than 300 prkoners were
Uken.
The British advance was alone a line
from east of Haucourt I'Abbaye to the
Albcrt-Bapaume road. Tne village had
been al not enveloped by advances east
ind west. Us capture evens the British
list from Gueudeoourt west to Couroe
lette. L'auoourt 1 the centre of five
read." nr.d the British there arc In an
ndvantageous petition for an attack on
Ilrulih troops have succeeded In clear
er practically nit German survivors
frcm the rtrmg trenches about ThlcpvaL
Stuff redoubt and the Hchwaben
redoubt and somewhat Increasing their
(tins on the high ground of the Thlep
ral ridge, so valuable fur their artillery.
Teel Oni" Northers Line.
Sixteen falUk by oriilsli aoldlera were
mit hist night on German trenches at
W.oua points, from Tprea In Belgium to
Xtuve Chapellc in France, a distance
of mote than twenty-five miles. All
:hni trnchcw are north of the tJomme
fror.L It Is believed that tho raids are
to ascertain If the troops holding them
lute been weakene-J, and If another big
ofns!o might be undertaken.
The French confined their operations
mi the Sumin front to taking small por
tions of lierman trenches at various ad
vantageous point. North of Rancourt
irsl ! cttheast of Morval they continued
heir operations designed to envelop the
H'.ue of Sailly-Salllisel. Some of this,
sn't"( was made by hand grenade
fleL'-g,
7 i. r'u s British statement follows :
SjmPy afternoon, south of the Ancre,
oir ccntte attacked and captured
the w Kilo of its ubjectlvo on a front of
lr,l" urd from a point east of Eau-
urt I'Abbaye to the All?rt-Baupaume
Md, northern t of Pestemont farm.
'lilt vilnge of I'auenurt I'Abbaye Is re
ported in Lc In our hnr.ds.
Further east we pushed our out
posts well beyond the original front
III.. More than 300 prisoners have al
rn)y been taken, and our casualties
up to the present are small.
"Tanka" A sain I'sefal.
In this action the new armored cars
have, done vahiatne work In clearing
the enemy trenches behind the attack
ing Infantry.
The village of Transloy, north of
Morval. was effectively bombarded by
ojr artillery and an ammunition dump
hin up.
On Saturday two aeroplanes were
n: cefully bombed by our aeroplanes
ii.J at least one machine was de
nt jtil In the fighting over this
Ir-jiu four enemy machines were
brought down. One of our machines
it mining.
Since .-September IS we have taken
btcen th Ancre and the Somme
tenty-four Held guns, three field
howitzers and three heavy howitsers.
From July t to Reptember 30 In the
same area wo made 'prisoner 68 offi
cers and 20,147 men of other ranks.
The Day Ilepnrt,
The day statement paid:
Luring the night some progress was
made between Flers and Le Sara.
Theie was heavy shelling In that
neighborhood and also around Gueude
court, In the Thiepval area the enemy was
r fi out of ground he held neur the
M if; redoubt. We Increased our gains 1
' hwaben redoubt, only n minute
portoti of which remains untnken.
v captured (ierman army order,
September 21, emphasizes the
tmr-.r-diicc at that time of the posi
tjor .it ls Jicrufii "the last protec
I of the attlllery. which mubt In no
'Ir u'radancea be lost" We captured
"" " Itlon a few days afterward.
The .Mabt Cotnuaunlqne.
" nl t'a Trench official communique
l Sorame front we carried out
'g tlif day some small operations
enabled us to capture trench
' north of Ranrnurt and south
' Mnral. Thorn was reciprocal
s at different points along the
ipfclaJly violent south of the
'' :impagne. In thp region south
' "ii do Mrsnll, the enemy at
l two sutld.n attacks after
bombardments. Our curtain
' mediately checked one attempt,
' ' other, east of Tnhtire, also
elf
,1
M i
fl t
F
ft'
& .
fl.!'.
German statement follows:
i the front of Duke Alorooht
'embejg und also, against the
' . .it.cl Artols front of Prince
'!'" it's army tho Hrltlsh dcvel
'." i.i.rtlcularly lively patrol ac-
'he batllefront north of the
F. -p.. the artillery fltrhtJtszr attained
Conliausd oa TMr Papa.
AIR RAID ON LONDON,
ZEPPELIN SHOT DOWN
Crowds Fill Streets ns News
Spreads of German
Attack.
!xuo.v, Oct. 2 (.Monday). Zeppelin.,
are dropping .bombs on London and the
eastern counties. One of them has lieen
rS)i? down ln "n"1" north of the city,
This Is the fourth raid since ieptcmber
, v. nn r,y nuur ,hl morning the
airships are hovering over London under
fire from tle anti-aircraft guns, attacked
by the British aeroplanes and replying
with their own guns and with bumbs.
Oreat crowds thionged the streets
when the news spread that the Zeppe
l.ns had appeared again. They saw
clearly the destruction of the giant Zep
pelin. Its flames lighted the sky for
mile. Thousands are on their way now
to the district where It fell. Who brought
It down, whether a gunner on the ground
or an aeroplane pilot, has not yet been
revealed.
Although tho Zeppelin crashed to earth
atmost due north of London, the specta
cle of the descending blazing mass was
witnessed by thousands of Ix)iuloners.
The Zeppelin begun tn descend slowly
and then dropped very fast, the blase
from It lighting up the countryside for
many miles like day.
The official statement Issued at mld
night said :
A number of host He airships crossed
tho mat coast lietween 9 o'clock and
midnight A few bombs were dropped
near the coast, but no damage Is yet
reported.
The raid Is still ln progress and
some airships are In the vicinity of
London, where some guns have been
In action.
An airship Is reported brousht down
In flames north of London.
GREEK DECISION
EXPECTED TO-DAY
Kinjr Constantine to Send
Definite Word on War to
Entente Killers.
I.ONnnN.Oct. 1. King Constantine will
telegraph to-morrow at the latest to
King George. Csar Nicholas and Presi
dent Potnrare his derision whether or
not Oreece will enter the war with the
Allies. Athens despatches filed on Fri
day, but delayed by the censor, quote
friends of the King as making this pre
diction. The postponed meeting of the Oreek
Crown Council, at which a decision re-
gardlng Greece's action Is expected to he
reached, was to have been held yester
day or to-day, according to a despatch
filed yesterday. Memners of the council
deny the assertions of friends of M,
Ventselos and the Allies that King Con
stantine Is merely playing for time, and
has no real Intention to declare war on
Bulgaria.
M. Venlzelos prohably will have a place
In the Greek Cabinet once war Is de
clared. If he wishes it. The Cabinet
will he reorganized for the war. In con
sulfation with the Kntentc Mln'sters. It
is predicted that M. Kalogon pculos will
remain Premier and Minister of Finance,
with M, Stratos. now Minister of Marine,
as War Minister. Klther M. Curapanns,
now Foreign Minister, or M. Cornmllaa,
Greek Minister at Home, Is slated for
head of the Iiepartment of Foreign Af
fairs. There will be three supporters of
M, Venlzelos In the now Cabinet.
Much significance Is nttached to the
request of Gen. Mochopoulos. Chief of
the General Staff, for leave of absence
for forty-five days, which the King
granted. Gen. Moschnpoulna Is a strong
friend of the Kntente, Gen. Gennadls
probably will replace him, It Is not
known where Gen. Mosi hopoulos Is
going, but It is surmised he may go to
Salonlca, the Hntente headquarters.
The newspaper Jlrnprrtttl, a Germano
phlle organ, for which M. Ptratos. leader
of the new antl-Venlzellat war party, his
been HTltlng. refused to-day to publish
his pro-war articles.
This morning the orTlclal gazette of the
provisional government published a de
cree signed by M. Venlzelos and Admiral
Condourlotls naming Gen. Panyotls Dan
glls, former Minister of War, as tho third
member of the triumvirate heading the
provisional government.
More news of the success of the pro
Ally revolution continues to come In.
The Island of Tenedos has Joined the rev
olution, and rioting Is reported on the
Island of Zante betwen reservists and
Venezlllsts.
VERDUN HEROES AT FOOTBALL.
Iron Division" Holds Opponents tn
Single Score Before 20,000.
Pakii, Oct. 1. Fresh from the battle
field, eleven men of the famous Twen
tieth Army Corps, which has distin
guished Itself all through the war and
particularly at Verdun, played a game
of football to-day with the team of the
Association Sportive Franc alee before a
crowd of 20,000.
The Twentieth Corps Includes what Is
called the "Iron Division." composed
largely of Parisians; nmong whom are
some football stars. Though It had
been more than two years since they had
played together, the soldiers, while un
able to score, iield their well trained ad
versaries to a single point.
250 DROP IN CHURCH CELLAR.
t floor lilves Way During; Dedication
Services S.l Injnrrd.
IlINOHAMTON, N. V., OCt, 1. Flft)'-
I three persons were Injured, this nftor
noon when the floor of the First Pres
byterian Church or Johnson City col
lapsed during the services being held
In connection with tho laying of the
cornerstone, feven of this number are
I seriously hurt, but It In believed all will
I recover.
I Two hundred and fifty persons wore
hurled Inlo tho basement eighteen reet
below when the door gae way, and It
was nearly half nn hour before all had
been removed. Tlio speakers worn In
their chairs and the band wns playing
the opening number when tho accident
happened. Thern was no warning, the
slender timber supporting tho lloor giv
ing way almost In nn Instant Twelve
physicians and throe ambulances were
used to -care for the Injured.
The floor was a temporary on con
structed merely to cure for the dedica
tion crnwd. It wns rmpported by two by
fours, placed nbout twenty feet apart,
The pastor of the church said to-night
that th responsibility could be placed
on n one, since several contractors had
xpreased their belief thst tho floor wns
safe.
All tha Injured are residents of thli
city.
NINE CARS MECKED;,,'
BY STRIKE RIOTERS im'm
Yonkers, Monnt Vernon, Xew
Itoehellc and Fclhnni Prove
Storm Centres.
fi'ii ri' t 'n vititi t , i t t
THRKA r OF MILITIA CALL
Westchester Trnetion Mnna
ffers Try to End Tienp
Culm in Xew York.
"
StrlKe r.ots started in Yonkers. Mount ,
ernnn. New Rochelle and Pelham yes-
lerday following the attempt of the I
Westchester traction mnnatrt-rs tn break I
Mrcel '" x" ,lmt xlMert !
there elnce .-.'eptcmber 10, Nine cars '
were started out of the barns In the
rnornlng and nfterno,,, and by nightfall'
all were battered and wrecked. ,
Fo violent were the Mount Vernon
rioters and so defiant of police restraint
that Mtvor I'UVe tnt nteht said he'
. . .
, , .... .,.,.
would call nut the militia If necessary
to give h:s city tn-et car sen Ice. Loul"
Frldlger, counsel to the Amalgamated
Association, tried f control the men,
but they refused to heed his warnings.
Yonkers hnd Its nrt excitement In
the ninmlng at It o'clock With two
car Inspectors as a crew and policemen
on front and Year platform the car
reached CJetty Frjunro before the striker"
srecoeded In stopping It. The trolley
pole was Jerked from the electric wire,
the wlte netting torn Com the motor
man's tmx. wlndsws were smashed and
the wooden framework of the car bat
tered In licforc the police could do any
thing. Cunr ami Silt lint Calm Mob.
Ix-slle Sutherland, vice-president and
general manager of tho Yonkers Rail
loud PumiLiTu'. rodo hi all automobile
to the stalled car. Standing up in his lutlonnl and thnt "steps should be taken
tonneau. waving his cano and silk hat, to roslM It in everv lawful manner"
he finally commanded the attention of ,. ,, R , prd,nt of the Atchison,
the mob. Ue promis-d to have the car , '
taken back to the barn, and on this nr.d Santa Te nallway. has sent
pleduo the crowd ceased Its assault, a spe -lal letter to stockholders on the
Fifteen minutes afterward another subject,
car left the Yonkers barn. The strikers Mr Ripley reviews the whole contro
were ready for It. A live minute bom- versy which resulted in the Adamson
bardment drove the crew out of the car, bill lielng enacted Into law. He points
and It was not until another pair of men out that the traltn.en of the four
promised they would attempt no further brotherhoods Involrca are on the aver
oiieratlon of tho car that they were per- age the Iwst paid employees on the rall
rr.lttcd to take hack what was left of It. roads and that they received pay on the
In rtie nftrrnoon, about 3 o'clock, after basis of ten hours or less, no matter
a vote In the barn, another crew started how much short of the ten hour limit
to take out a car bound for the Z42d their work fell, while for all overtime
street station of the subway. By run- they re-elved pay on the basis of one.
nlng at full speed it was able to get tenth of a day's par for each hour be
away from the mob. but the rioters fol- ynd the ten hour limit, oe for e.eh ..n
lowea ana neaped upon tne tracks a
series of obstructions to Imped the re
turn trip.
Nineteen Men Irrrstrd.
.i iiisoiniiu aifiuie, worn ine ear on
Its way back could go no further, the
crowd surrounded It and drove away tha
mototman and conductor. An hour af-
At Highland avenue, when the car on
terward Patrick Donovan, superintendent
of the company, personally ran the car
back to the Klugsbrldge barn, The
series of attacks resulted In the arrest
of nlneten men
Ma or Flsko of Mount Vernon pa
trolled his city all day ln his automo
bile In an effort to frustrate the rioters.
For tho greater part of his tour hc was
brought back what rcmaln.d of I.Ik car.
New Rochelle was a storm centre In
the afternoon. On Third
.street pear
Fulton avenue, 150 strikers formed tn
head oft a trolley car. When they fout.d
Mayor F.ske's automobile! serving as
pacemaker they Included him .n the
blockade. ills machine was blocked
against the curb when C.lef SlUcrstelt.
c-.lVA nnlpi 9 In Ills tmttni.-v'M., (tint, ia
charge the mob.
Further nlong the street another car
was wedged by the strikers. As the
Mayor rode up to break the deadlock one
of tho crowd bitterly criticised him for
giving tho carmen police protection. So
Incendiary was his speech Chief Silver-
stein put him under arrest. Ono of the
Fifth avenue line conductors, wns hit on
the head with a
Jurcd.
stone and s verely In-
Snlibnth Culm In Manhattan.
A ri.nl Knl.tin fli rti1t.i m.gi-rtti n
I e. rs-, rTh - tilul 1 .s flisVi ta L"li.n-slnl,
Chief of Police. Both men wore ,.rn,..l l' b- strikes the rn
one ion., car started through Pelham. ,l0.nr."?." v ,
' lfor th. .o-uh. t,.,i i.A i.i ... i nder this view of exist
i.o'.u ...... , .... -.' ' which the Ooverna.em
str'.ko In Manhattan and Tho Bronx 1 thal tn Iuul'n demand for n remedy and s.,am was turned Into the hold, tho
yesterday, 'iho "green car" operators lmv" to " lrnlsttpnt nnd forceful nMcu (lf which Is near tho steerage dln
sald they had the service within twenty ' r el!' th" public will continue tn lis i jK room, only a few passengers In
cars or normal. ov two Instanc es of I'tesent defenceless position. I ,j,0 cabln knew about the rire and there
violent wero noted and theso were of "fine- tho precedent or abandoning was no confusion or excitement
negligible Importance. This quiet, Amal-1 arbitration nnd hurriedly paying the df- The captain said he hnd considerable
gamated ofilcers r-ald latt night, must niands of railroad unions hy special anx.tJ- fPr the well being of his CtC
not bo lutoriireted us an Indication that . Congressional enactment ha thus been passengers and that Is why he kept tho
the strike Is over. .established, does It not behoove jou to knowledge of tho nre from them. After
They nrgini their chances of success 1 exercise your Influence ln favor of appro- ; ,), ,,team had 1een turned nn an hour or
now are better than they hnvo been at l"'l3t remedial legislation? j , p won to the hatch ard found tho
nny time In the three weeks since thol "T,'ls '"',',"- believes that the act , dancer was apparently over. Pmok had
walkout. The. New York Railways has '
proved Its weakness, they Insist by c ut- I
ting down the emergency wage that
wero granted tn those who remained
loyal to the company or who took em
ployment while the strike was on, Fur
thermore, according to their contention,
the servlco of tho cars Is greatly ex
aggerated, oven though tho "green car"
men are working to their limit.
"I rode from the Battery to The Bronx
yesterday," said William D. Fitzgerald,
the strike leader, I enn tell you that
the nneratlon la nnlhlllir llko hnl 1.
claimed bv tho company. Wo have re-,
potts from our men lhat lndlf.it the1
company Is duplicating on the police who
give out servlco reports. Therm police
statisticians have been misled by tho
simple device of scooting u car out of
th front of tho barn and "arlnglng It
back uru-een by tho police through n side
door within a few minutes."
Arrnsatlnn Accnlnst Poller.
Fllzgerrtld Intends to report tu Police
Commissioner Woods to-dny two In
stances of policemen who have been en
gaged In enr work contrary to their duly. 1
On of theso men, ho says, ho saw t -n Ml'muiUTtt WITT CTDTvr
changing car signs. He has tho shield.11' tt' tJJUaiBVUl.r. BIIUIU,.
numbers of both.
William 1. Mahon. president of thai Uniployeea of Twenty Western
Amalgamated was expected to arrive I. tnos Demand Klght Hour Day.
yesterday on the Philadelphia or Nlouw
Amsterdam. He was not on tho sailing1 Kansas Citt, Mo., Oct. 1. A vote to
list of cither vessel and last night Fllz- I'trlko has been carried In th referendum
gerald said bo had had no rommunlca.' "f ,ln'OWO roembere.of the six shopmen's
tlnn from him. unions on twenty Western railroads, It
All that remains, of th "sympathetic; was announced last night. A. t). Whar
strike" will bo carried Into Beethoven ""' s'' Iul representative of the Amer
Hull this morning nnd will bo mourned, lean rcderntlon of Latsor. said the vote
with iippioprlato rites by tho ronferonco WB" '? "f"" of '!' two-thlnla ratio re
. ummltte. of thlrtv-flve union lenders i 'lulrrd.' J11" cxact PCJK. "oweyer,
who ten days ago decided nn tho walk-1 'nn0' be announced until a complete
out. Tho committee by formal action co"nt ,,T ,T' .,. .
probably will call tho phantom strlk. at , .Vl" T.".? 1". Jtff.'1 ih? rroP0,',
n ' net.
TOKWKVH WIN ICS) ORACH ANY TABI.K.
Wins maktrs tor sv vtn mriiu a lot.
Ill PultOB 8t, N. Y. Fbene 1001 Curt
Jiv.
He Asserts Apostle Would Ue
Captain of Industry if
Living To-dny.
f'l.K t.LANO, Oct 1. "If St. l'atil had
I lived a counle of thousand years later he
n"uiu nave neen a captain or. inuusirj.
That was John V. Rockefeller's ver-,
diet this morning after hearing a ser -
would have been a captain of Industry.")
ruon In which the evangelist was held
up as a model of power and forceful-'
ne. .
"Paul was persistent" r aid Mr. Rocks- j
fellet, "And It's persistency that gets
things these days. I'erslslcnt men nre
needed nt the top, and Paul would nam- 1
rally hii become n leafier In some line
of buiiness or Industry In these modern
t", !' .C0.'"n'?rcl11.1 . ?IlV?rtul!,y- )".
(V1 ,jr, a bf (.u, AIl hc W(,ull,
have needed Is capital, and ha would
"ve oonc the rest. We need more mod
rrri riifn Him fmii nu.infwu anfi Mr.
ful nature. Natural lenders are rare and
valuable. They reap rlrh rewards In
business and Industrial life. Kvcry line
'3'";!''' nn" "nfr l"e
Mr Hockefeller said he had taken
precautions to prevent the spread of In-
fantile pataljsls to l'ocantlco IIIIIs. He
expectfi to return there about the middle
of October.
.
TkT t m nrATTni t
PI ANV1 kIIIUT flM
a V11
FJftHT HOUR I AW
iils'ill 11VU1I Ut II
E. V. Hipley. Pioulcin of
Atchison Itond. CmIN 1 1
rnconstitutioiiiil.
.......
nelUung that tne elsht hour law re.
cently enaclnl by Congress Is unconstl-
miles beyond 100 miles.
Railroad Mrs Sapresse.
'The result." Mr. Rlnley say.. "at.
pears to be that according to the view
... p , . . , , . ,, ,. ... ,
. 'J?" 'cnl " '", ",ndfi; "lM'r,C
ifn.f XI T'' " .,rUMl0
f . nr, "f,,i0n7'''' r0"101""0"
the part of railroad employees to rara-
lyze by strike all the railroads of the
country. If this view Is correct It must
le on the theory that the Clayton act,
which was passed and approved about
two years ago. was Intended tn and
does facilitate strikes at the expense of
the public by freeing from restraint nnd
ispirc. no matter
nn a -1 ,1 am , t . 1 ' 1 r ,,,..." . ... t.i. 1 1 .
-J. untriimiitni'ii, ,,r
II transporta-
seems to hr
Iff) '5 ,nV.p'ar'ltt,,?V un.tn .w,m r'mf-
'"aI lrKlslatlon ''"ftI1 l, adopted the only
rm.. .trM,. .., ..u.,re
to grant by special legislation whatever
demands labor combinations may Insist
ii.in as their price for permitting the
people to continue to enjoy railway
transportation
'The question therefore becomes of
profound Importance to yoti. both as a
citizen deprndlng upon railroad trans.
l,o',at'0n und, ,M n holder of railroad
''-'? ,0 """''l' '" " f n to
1 0"mm necessary remedial legislation.
m,r,trt.rMm n.a...
' wmrni. "'""'
"The brotherhoods mad tt clear at
the session of Congress Jutt ended that
they will resist with all their power any
such remedial legislation whether it
seeks to prohibit strikes In advance of
public Investigation or to put any form
of restraint upon labor combinations.
It Is therefor reasonable to assume
pngross has psssed s unconstl-
tutlonal nnd that steps should J taken
to "Ml"t u ln cwr' Uwful mnner-
13 DIE AS TRAIN HITS CAR.
UK Passengers Injured
1st Accident
1st Detroit.
TlF.ntotT. Oct. 1. Thirteen persons
were killed and more than twenty-five
Injured, several probably fatally, late
tll-tllEllt When a SWltCh CnglllO pushing'
'wo freight cars crashed Into a crowded i
csr nt Foroiit avenue and Hu-
.pilnder street on thn llust Side,
There were more than ninety persons'
In the car, which was struck almost In
the centre, the Impact pushing It from
tho tracks and gliding it alongside of the
ft eight cans. Panloatrlcken passengers
began Jumping from both thn front and
rear doors and climbing through win
clows. Alott of the dead were killed by
Jumping from th car nnd fallltn; under
thn wheels of the still moving freight
cars.
I HI I lis. IKlllimtin, iiiii inn TDIV uues HOI
I i.-, .- iu.i.t. .
I, l"J . I .t,...M,v n-inuni, llO
basis tt agreement over the men's de
mand for an sight hour day and five
cents an hour Increase tn wares will be
sought
LINER PHILADELPHIA
FOUGHT FIRE AT SEA
Ainericnn Steamship, (tiG Pns
sencers Oblivious of Peril,
Docks Here.
SKrJIKT KNOWN TO VKW
,
IUiic in Hold, Discovered Off
tirrtiid llnnks, Smothered
by Steam.
A flu- s noulderlng In lier aftir hold
unknown to all except a few discreet and
f.ored persons among her 840 pas-
seru-ers, the American liner Philadelphia.
! ' Uwrpo.,1. anchored at Quarantine
yesteMay morning. Included In her 110
,.,Uiln voy,ger- were sevcrl dlstln-
sulshcl AmeilMi.s and Hrlto'n.,. Cart
andy -111 not let Quarantine ofllclnls
'-now nn thing about the fire, and as
there wore no outward signs of It aboard
tll' "h'P news men down tha bay asked
no questions. l.'on after the steamship
had docked little Information was avail-
',,,'', fr'':n I'assengers. and nearly all
wanted t.i know from their questioners
Ml-- Ulslo SUkny. lending lady for
"'u"Jko.i' hw
burning hlp. rennrliod In startled
surprise
"Fire? Whv notiodv told ms nnvthtni.
about a fire Thru wj what must have
made It so ;m: ,u t!io saloon on Thurs
day evening,"
Sir Heerbohm Tree wns an complete
ly In the d'jrl.. This was duo In part,
he said, to his blng n poor seaman, pre
ferring the Seclusion of Ills rnhln inn.r
of the trip and not really caring whether
"" "t" disaster menacwl the shlii. which
I the usual disposition of a poor sra-
rN'r'
( aptalii ilnilt Blnsr on l.lnrr.
t'pt C.iuJy a nn'ted the es.stcnce of
tho lire nfier tho ship had Leon made
fast to her pier, but he did not regard It
eer.'ouely. Exactly what damage It has
done, or may bo doing, will not be known
until this morning, when a force of long,
'horemen w'.II enter No. 7 hold, next to
the lat on the shlv. and remove the
charred cargo. ro'nl!lnc mos-'y of biled
i loth. lres goods and women's hats.
Among the few- who knew the captain's
secret wns Ir. Jntepli llyrne An of
fleer whom he knows well told him on
Thursday afternoon. Jut after Chief
Knglner Joyce had turnrd steam Into
the hold whore the flro wn. nn condition
that ho keep the Information from nli
other passengers. The doctor Is a nerve
specialist, and soon recovered his com
posure. A little later he studied the
effect of the secret on the stewards, all
of whom had been Informed of the fire
eo they would be prepared for any
emergency.
Steward Pale aatl Silent.
The stewards looked paler than ti'iiul
rid were untt'unlly quiet the ret of the
trip. A steward delights In giving pas
sengers exclusive information regarding
nhno; anything, and absolute silence
nlKMit the liner's peril was a posltle
hardship. They were grave anil oocs-
sionallv talked In whlers. Meanwhile.
tho passengers went about as If they
nam. I euro in nil tne worn.
-1-1. . ...... ..1 ....... ... i . l
llir MMllimi IHII-JI1B IHl hrfDIIII I OO
lraollers In the d-irl; wore tho fear that
Is dependent If all hands knew about It the supersed
ing law upon ltie and hlghstrung might suspect a
plot to destroy the shit), or tha' there
I'.'d been a secret submarine attack, or
almost anything except the plain trut'i
e apr. i anoy uio no; wain io pivo nis
passor.gers any chance to misuse their
fervent war Imagination, and that Is why
), oauttot.od evor body to keep stltl until
Philadelphia had put the last p.-isti.
gi r aehore.
The ssl.ion for several dnvs was units.
,n.. no. namf .,t the nassenrers re
,lluri,s,i Rijout it and uskej the nearest
KtrWiird why It was. But he adroitly at.
trlbutod the warmth to the Gulf Stream,
anrt th(tt att,ned thorn. The heat how
, 'ver, was due to tho steam that was
pouring through the perforated pipes of
' hold No. 7 and smothering the blaze,
Tells of I Ire s Discovery.
rr( r.mJv said that early 'Chun
lav afternoon, when the Phllad-lphla
J wa'B paJt ( the Grand Banks, he lentned
,i,f mnv was romlner out of No. 7
i,i,i u, ,,rem tn Chief ISnrrlneer Joyce
reafccd to our out nnn sieam was iai
Ing Its place. He kept the steam on and
it was still colng when th" ship docked
I and will continue to flow until longshore-
... 1.A feM. tM.t m-mlm
lorn i-mri ni' tiuiM ..
C.ipt. Ccndy ts Inclined to believe
that the flru wss due to spontaneous
combustion, perhaps In among the bales
of cloth. Whether or not this Is so will
1 ascertained this morning.
TWO MEN FLEE MATTEAWAN.
Farmer's House I'lred After TUcnpe
of insane Prisoners,
Beacok. N. T, 1. Albert Merldc,
jj jear old. and Robert Graham, 2",
,vho 0F(.np.(i froni the Mntteawan State
. ,h. r.rlm.I1. .n..n. ,,,
Pn. for the Criminal Insane Inst
i night nro suspected by the lo.-al police of
having set fire to th homo of ,Tohn Vnn
llouten near here early this morning.
Graham was committed to the Institu
tion about four years ago for setting lire
to some cars on a railroad that employed
him. Merklo wns confined a near ago
lifter being arrested for larceny. It Ir
thought by the Institution authorities
that they ol.ti.lned an Impression of the
door key of their wind from nn attend
ant since suspected and discharged.
S. FISH, JR., IN MOTOR SMASH.
Ills 1Mb Car lilts TelegTaph Polo In
Tarrytnven.
Taciittowm, N. V., Oct. 1. fltuyve
sant rish. Jr., had ft miraculous escape
last midnight when th steering wheel
of his big motor car Jammed In front
of SI, Mark's Church and the car
crashed Into n telegraph pole.
Tho force of tho mh brok the pole
off at the tiottom. and the car turned
over on tho lawn. Fortunately Mr, Fish
scaped with a few scratches. He wss
on his way lu Ids bom at Garrisons,
to which he was driven IB a cab.
FARMERS LIE IN AMBUSH
AND SPILL BORDEN MILK
They Attack Wagons and Defeat Company's Employees
in Fist Fights Trees Felled Across Roads
to Block Deliveries.
Ii om vailous towns and villages In
, the milk producing sections of New York
nnd New Jersey reports were received
i last night showing that farmers .who
' are doing picket duty at the cross roads
land at turnpikes leading to the milk
stations controlled by the milk distribut
ing companies have learned the tricks
of thtlr striking brothers In big cities.
Following a mass Hireling of farmers
at Brewster, N. Y on Saturday night,
. pickets were sent out to prevent milk
J from being dell vend to the Borden's
i condensed milk factory nt thnt place.
As they were hiding liehlnd bushes In
Hock Cut, near Mllltown. two and n half
I miles from tho factory, n Borden wagon
loaded vith twenty tans of milk cm."
along In iharire of Geotge l.eo of Halls
Fond, Conn. Jl. was accompanied by
three representat cs of the Borden mm
pany. The pick' ts came out of hldlnir
with a whoop. ield up the team and
started to reason.
i
Flat l lahf rollon..
Argument prut lug futile, they drafted
io m-'i off the wagon nnd a flrrl rljn
Mllmtnage took place. The horny
.tided sons of toll won. During n
lively fist right the mill; wa dumped
nlotigelJe the roadside and the rivers
cf white were streaked with tiny ribbons
of ted
The r.et attack on a BorJm milk
wagoi, wa made on Hie Crot 'ti Falls
' toad, t.ear lltewrter. This wagon was In
. ih.irge of Charles rwrcw, who felt se
cure In the society of a Westchester
' deputy slier. ff. The farmers' e.iuad
verely mauled both men and yanked
them off the wavon. Then they held
tlunt on nt ground while willing hands
t our.-d tin milk over them, All told,
nty.tli- cans were spilled,
Af'.er IohPij . It was reported, nrmed
guar ie will deliver mill, at tho llorden
company's Brewster plant.
I'.'.KUl autotnihllcs loaded with leaguers
from the Brewster meet.ng iiatrolled all
highway in that section for the purpose
of doing m(s.o i.ry work with farmerr
who might I weak kneed, and kept ln
constant totuh with tho pickets.
Between B kem.ir.'s and Doanesburs
SMOKE KILLS TWO
BROOKLYN WOMEN
Sleepiiifr Mimi Overcome in
Kurninfr Rerjren Street Tluild
insr. hnt Is Revived.
Brealtln Into a smoke filled room on
the third floor of a burning frnm" bulld
, Irg at 431 Bergen street, Brooklyn, at
II :J0 last night, fiolicetnen nnd a fire
man btnt cn rescue four.i' two ajed
women sitting quietly at a little round
table An open Bible lay on the lap of
the filler of the two. fiom which It
seemed she hnd been reading a!ci.l. The
Miiol.e hnd suffocatej them and both
wete dead
The two women ner Mi. Sirsh
Veedr. 70 jears old. .ml her oflor. Mts
'iro'.iiie f'ltherbeck. 0k T'lej wero
wldown and rented a front room to he'p
rapport themselves, T'c roomer, Patrick
Shay, was lound In bod unconscious.
After Drs, King nnd Alays of Seney llo
t .tal had worked over htm for nn hour
or more with a putmitor he was -evlvod
nnd taken to the hondtal, where h! con
dition I not eerioiis.
The t're etartid on the second floor, In
tho hallwn Tiie opcupanls of this
floor, Mr. ar.cl Mrs. George Irvine, wero
out So was Mrs. Theresa l.overldo,
the owner, who lived on tho ground floor.
No ono was nt home save the two elderly
Meters and the sleeping man.
Polkeman Kdnard Peliney discovered
smoke pourlr.g from the front windows
Calling to a passerby to turn In an
n.-irni, he smashed throush tho front
door nnd went up talrs. Fireman
Willrsm Qulgley of Engine Company 1I,
Jiiinping from n passing surfaco car.
Joined him. S .on nftar they had brought
tho three victims down emit the np
tiaratus arrived, nnd with It a pultrotor
ftom th Fnlnn !os Compativ and the
trihuIaKv.
' Tho damage was estimated nt about
11,000 nnd the fire, which was con
flood in the second floor, was soon put
out.
THREE WOMEN DIED IN CHAIRS.
No Violence, fins leaks or Poison
Pound Doctors Mj alined.
Lancaster, Ohio, O. . 1 Neighbors
ot Agnes and Alice metters, nrilden
sisters, need IS and 6d rear respec
tively, seeing no activity about 'he homo
of tho two women to-day. ctuered th"
house to-ulsht and found tho two women
nnd Miss Maty Stret'on, 3P. i visitor,
fitting erect In rocking chairs and nil
thro" dead.
There waa no sign of violence or pol
roiling and nn examination or th gas
pipes revelled no leaks. Medical ntten
Mon revealed no rnuso for th deaths.
That death hud coin quietly was evi
denced by th fact that one of the s!s.
ters had her glaws on and wa holding
u newspaper. There "lis no food hi tho
house erep; half of nit i.pplo pin mid
this showed no siKii of poison.
AIRMEN WARN BUCHAREST.
City Will no l.nld In Ruins I'lilrss
I Itiiiiiaiiln Seeks Prncr,
I Ijonpox, Oct. 'J (Monday), "In their
latest raid on Ilurharest," says the
1 7'Ihim's Itiichircsl correspondent, "th'
1 German aeroplanes dropped proclama
' tlcii.H declaring that Bucharest will ho
' laid III ruins sjou unless Rumania.
hi'stens tn tnako a separate peace,
i "In view of tho prubablo continuance
of tho raids, tho Government niithoiitlen
'.. rti.r...it nU l.l'i.mltlLZ tfi llt'lll.- lUl.lt-
l.ers of foreigners who aro now detained
In concentration camps In tho country to
Bucharest, whero they will bo lodged lu
places most exposod to attacks."
.tt Jap Embassador Arrives,
Skatti r, Wash,, Oct, 1. Aliusro Wato,
recently iippnltitid Jnteinrso Ambassn
dor to the United Rtalea to succeed
liaron Chlnds, arrived from .Tapnn late
1 to-nlvht on thn liner Yokohama Mnru
j Mr. Cato will remain her two or thre
I days before proceeding to Washington.
largo trees woie felled a. rose rends.
flectually shutting off all sup.l. . of
milk from the Mutual Milk and Cream
Coinpan'e plant, located at that point.
Only three cans of milk reached
the station from Borden's Brew
ster plant. They were guarded by
Detectives Guertnn and Travis, special
oillccrs -f tho New York Centrat Rail
road. Ordinarily large quantities of
mill; leive the station for New York
ovoty day.
I At I'atersor, N. Y a hamlet near
Brewster, farmers who had not Joined
h- leairue were cowed by threats thst
' had been tnnde by league members, and
did not undertake to move any mint
whatever to the jvlatit of the tslswson
DecKcr milk depot there.
At Pawling, a few miles further north
on tho lUrlcm road, the situation wn
critVal lust night. The leaguers there
ar mui h more conservative than tho
Hrenswr men. but It was apparent they
didn't intend to let any milk etatt for
the city If they could help it.
I. W. Pixon. ono of the largest dairy-
j men In Brewster, found It Impossible to
i deliver his load of thirty cans yester.
,u). and hc remised to Join the league
F..i Urn thing this morning,
; l.oynt to the Lrsgnr,
I Paul G Bennett, director of the 1'jrm
1 ltuteiu of Sueex county, N, J-. said nt
' Now ton lat night there 1 no doubt that
fe Sussex county farmers aro going to
I main lojal to the league. He said Cliat
, fatmeifi who tlo not btlong to the leatue
are not t-hlt.'ilnK their milk. U ex
plained they are beginning to make ar
i.mitements to turn tlilr milk Into but
ter. It was said that only at-out three cat.s
of milk each were delivered to the vari
ous crramerle" In Sussex county jester
day As a rule each creamery gets about
sixty cau.
At nranchvllle, where the Borden com
pany bss a big creamery, the concern
was able to get hut ilxty cans yesterdav.
I'sua.ly about "an cans arc delivered
there dal.j.
Tne fw.ittswood Dairy Company d
Med yevterdav to pay league prices for
all milk delivered nt Its creameries nt
Sw jrtswood.atid at Monroe. N. J. All cf
this milk i shirked to Newatk
FRASCH ESTATE UP
NOW TO $10,088,526
Noted Chemist's Property Ap
praised at Death in 19H
nt $5,201, 77(1.
. I'r.der a reappraisal the estate of Her
man Frasch. the noted chemist, who died
on May 1. 191 1, has been Increased from
a net value of o,2Cl,T7C, fixed by an
oilgln.il report tiled In 1!H. to JlO.OtS,.
fl'i. Th supplemental report of John
J. Lyons transfer tax appraiser, will be
filed In the o'flce of the Surrogate's Court
to day
This Incri'ns is due soVly to the un
usual aclvai"- In value of r.0."i shares of
the I'nlon Sulph'tr Company stock, which
have r!en to more than 150 times their
par value of f 100 a shnre. Theso shares,
which w.-re appraise! In the nnglm.l re
pirt filed by Solomon "Johenkr.inz. trans
fer tax apprnlc-or, on TV"ember 11, t?H,
M $:,:i0 endi, nr valu.'d nt $12,003 In
the supplemental report.
Iloiiiiil up In this advance In value Is
the "tory of how a tract of sulphur bods
ln Ix)Uls!ana, deemed worthless boiu
of apparently Insurmountnhl cilfficiiltles
In their working, were mad to vivid
nearly i0n.(.0n tons of sulphur In' on
year and to cnmpe( successfully with
the Sicilian sulphur mines that had
priviou-ly monopi.llzed the world's out
put. I'raseh Invented I'nlqur Devlre.
About sixty acres In the 1,:10 ncr
i.-oa wero i.i.nlo productive, nftor f..ur
.'ompanlo, had failed with them, bv a
remarkable f.vstem of hivtlng tho bed
v. HI. stem, ineltii g tiie ptjlj.htir nnd then
pumping It in a practically rolls. -J into
to the surfac.
Th.s system was ! invention of Mr.
Fi i-h. who riit'i to th's country In
l"ti. when a jior boy of If., with very
I llt'lo formal training as a chemist save
what he picked up as n druggist's ap
Iprentlc In his native town of Oalldorf,
Germany. After yoari of rtnigi-1 as an
Independent experimenter. h. Jo'nod Dim
Stntidaid (MI Company's Isboratotles at
Cleveland and later developed a formerly
promiess mi neiu near London, Ont, with
n yield that was derided b; the natives
us "skunk" oil.
Hy a pr.;oss that extracted the 1 per
cent of sulphur I" tin. fluid Mr. erssch
nn.1 It iimnierci.'illy marketahio, and
Locarno pu h a s'ropg competitor of the
S'andird Oil Comnniiv that this concern
bought his thid and his patents.
A Grout Dividend Knroer.
They i-ceng r,'. .'. his reniees, nml dur.
ing the twenty-live voari ho w,m chief
ehe'iiit for to onuuny ho earned th
i oput.it .on of mikitir more dividends for
them tliau even .1 hn I. Rockefeller, th
stool; nmiiuti'ir from tt' to Mif. through
lu method of iiia'tluu their retlncrlrs In
Ohio profitable.
In ISI'O ho branched out for himself
hy buying up Mvatnp land on tho Gulf
.oast west of New Orleans. Becnu of
tlio sodden soil tlio deposits of .sulphur,
wll.li had leen oo,it., from l.ioo to
LfiMft feet below 1h sutfaoe. had been
' found imwnikihle. Mr Frnch con-
civod tho idoii of foicltig water. suMtr
, lieat.d 'o a teiiiperat'iro of .13.1 d?(.rees
richrenl.eit by hun tutlei e of hollers,
i through a eix Inch pij.o that led to th
boils. Th heat melted the sulphur,
' wl.l.h waa then pumped up through a
I three inch Inner pipe to tho Mirfiice.
i This pmilnrt pushed th Kalian output
j ro elo-c ly that th Italian Government
was sale) finally to hnvo made an agree.
tnent with th Frali concern wherel.y
i It abstained from Invading th Kuropcan
ni.'ilket. In M.irvh, 1H15, Comptroller
I Travis applied to Surroaal Cohalan for
I i reni.prnls.il of the Mock, and It was
completed recently under th direction of
; 'Vllllam W Wltigatn aa special counsel.
I'lider Mr Frasvh'a will f lie hulk of
Iho estnio was divided between Mrs. LIU
abolh Die FraMii, his widow, and Mis.
Frieda Frasch Whlton. his daughter,
George Frnsclv hl son, from whom th
elder Vrsseh fiSd been estranged, was to
rocelve only the life Interest In 150,000,
600,000 QUARTS
OF CITY'S MILK
LACKING TO-DAY
Distributers Unable to Gcti
Enough to Supply All
Customers.
BABIES AXP THE ILL
TO GET FIILST CHANCE,
By Wednesday Bis; Conw
panics 31ay 3Iako No
Deliveries.
i F1B31S ASK STATE
, TO STOP THE FA11MEBS
( Wtint Investigation Inlo;
Bestruint of Trade
! Dairymen to Fight.
i
j Tit., greater city wilt begirt ttmf
morning to feci the pinch of tho dairy!
men's milk strlk. Last night's milk
trains. It la estimated, brought In ap
proximately 600,000 quarts hss than
tho usual amount 2,000,000 quarts)
dully needed for ordinary oonBump
tlon. Vnloss tho farmers or the diss;
tributers surrender In tlio mcantlmel
the; situation will be dlstreritng by;
. Wcdnesdny or Thursday and Xew
, York follt. especially th young, wllj
be actually suffering from want oj
milk.
The refusal of the up. Statu farmers)
to supply them with milk unless they
get thn terms they domain! about 4:i(
tnt A quart caused President Hor
ton of the ShcUleld Furins-SIavvson-.
lacker Company to nnpcul yesterday
' to tho State for relief. He ncnt n let
tor to Attorney-General Woodbury,
asking hint In Investigate officially th
Dairymen's League ntul Its operutloitt
to ilotrrmlne whether thcro Is n con
splr.icy In restraint of trudo for thet
purpose of enhancing tho prlco of
necessary of life.
From various dairy districts tn New
York or.l New Jersey reports weto res
clved that the farmer tire sticking to
gether like burdocks, and that but n,
small proporti n of the us-inl milk sups
ply for New York cllv wis forwardrcd
yr.Mcrrttiv .
Dealer Here I'lrni,
Officials of the big retail milk cons
corns Insist thev will not do business
with th Dairymen's League as an or.
gatiiration, nor with Commissioner John
J. Plllon of th Stat Department of.
I'oods and Markets as Its selling iigent,
but a.-e ts-rfectly vellllng to deal with tho
dairymen aa Individual
On the oil or hand, tho Iear,ue members
tlalm the are going to s.and tosethef
as a unit until tfc distributers come t i
their terms u demand for cent In
crease per eart In the prlco tl.ey aro to
get for Oc.ober inik. Yhoy also r-tntnl
e.ti their lnlstmeut tlu.t th rotnlleri
must buy the milk through CommirFlor.ef
Dillon,
The Comm.ssl. ncr himself, who was tit
fin fettle, said tie farmers had thn btsf
milk concerns on the run at last, and thn
latter would have to come to time,
II. N. Hillock, voe.proldont of thn
Borden company, cam down from hl-l
horr In Poughkoopslu vesterday and
1 epmit revet al hours i i l oiifereuc wltli
Mlnw official to do. .do just how thn
company I going to erve beat Its cus.
tomers during tho crli
Mr. Hnlloek said Hi renor'n received
after 1 P M ti ie H .. don ininagers In
th dal-y 0'strh.t : . thn th
'ompat.v wnii.dn t be it. e t,. n ceive. ln
tin.- moinlng u. m than i or coi.t e.C
It usual supp'.j Whether there would
b" an Incrci.e or a decieaso .ifter to
day's supply he said hc cotildi.'t ver.tura
i prediction.
Tn Inu (o C.er Mil'-,
"We ar trying to do nil wo cm t . g-t
milk." he si'd "I hnvo n. tight with
any one. emr main Interest Just nt tint
present time Is how- to get a s.ill1 lent
supply for the s.ck .mil tl iiidren.
Tlio milk supply for Be nleii's omn.-t
from points as far distort a Attlcn,
near Biiffaln. O'hor d'ai i nt r-"nt aro
St. 1iwrene'o and Jefferson e .o-ties,
IN Y, and from Pennsylvania
"Report, -re being t.tb-'jtcd now. but
I must decUt'ii to note Just whern wo
now are getting our milk. Tho 50 per
cent that wo nre no,v getting reman
from our own plan' imd is not incltdltu;
milk frcm new soii.ies. Wc have no
milk ln storage, and t show tho ine.t
I jrlence of Com..iis,iier lllll m when
. he tulVs about the amount of ,i iU th..'
la In storage
"Noshing has happened to-day to ittor
our determination to .leal illro.' i wit.
the producers. We don't rontmp ate np
j'roachlng the Drflrytiien Le-iguo or any
l uno olso to iniik centralis ' ir nuylug
milk."
I'res'dent Ilorton of the SiieilleM com
, pnny e-ald that his company will bo rihhi
, tn.elty to mi.ko HO per cent o' de.
liveries
Can Get tome 'llll.,
J "W at on tl'. Job," M- ii. ton
'added. "Many fa-tin rs In ii.ilry
.men's Leagun err.toiy l,,.ve ffe.e.1 to
(deliver milk to us. Wo l.ipo we mav ho
able) tn tncrear-i ore .-iiiipu v w!
.not glv In to tho P.iirv me ii' L. irtiu
and undo th work vvo i.,io In . n do, .,i
for tho pa.it p n v ours. '
Raymond 11. n t'ise. n le't i r th.i
1 MutuabMcPornii.tt Pali,- i'.h .on,
raid thnt hi rcinpuiy lia-e i d.v er
raiKemeils vvhiireby m wi n le n iH
b scuted from four.- - i.t
f r..
! t'l
en'r
'tof
th.l
I l I J
liiiiuded In the tel l dory fi.
.company has hoiigiit r ' '
I ivstrons until iiom We.n ... '
that, he ridded, the gren'or I I
supply for 'his city w1 I Inno
brought from distant ft.v posoi' y ..-i
far west nn Ililr.ois and i.e. lav port I
'as Canada. Tlio roinpanv'ie i tit , V i
said, hav tabulated tho nuni r . 'm.
dren and Invalldn ulong tlic '-re or their
routes and drivers heve been inMruet'it
m
m
