HE supremacy of tb morn- T
j mg paper as a purveyor of is of da
T news while it is news is be- -o -4 11 riNsm wpaler. if red i
i demonstrated day after day in ost of te bat mes f Waimstn
Washington by The Herak O O the with whih brea
NO. 3636. WEATHER-FAIR AND WARmN. WASHINGTON, D. C.. MONDAY, OCTOBRER. 2, 1916 ONE CENT.
GERMANS SMASH
ROUMANIAN ARMY
First Body Routed and Second
on Offensive.
(By the Interuatiemal News Bervise.)
Berlin. Oct. 1.-The victory of Gen. von
Falkenhayn over the Rouranians around
Hermannstadt. in Transylvania, grows
with every new dispatch from the front.
The Roumanian first army has been
shattered and the second army, rushed to
its assistance, has been badly battered.
being now solely on. the defensive.
Those Ronmanlns of the first army not
killed, wounded or captured ar scattered
widely in the pathless moun Ins and
tractless wilderness, their supplies cut ofN.
Hundreds are expected to be gathered in
by the forces thrown out by Von Falken
bayn to scour the country.
The victory has caused the greatest ex
ettement and jubilation seen here In
months. The press divides credit between
Field Marshal von Hindenburg and Gen.
von Falkenhayn for the successful
strategy and between the field commander
and his subordinate. Gen. Krafft von Del
mensingen. for the execution of the plans.
It was an army group under Gen. von
Delmensingen which captured the famous
Red Tower pass, through which large
bodies of Roumanians had forced a way
Into Transylvania, and sealing It against
them, turned their left wing, closing in
from the south, while Von Falkenhayn
struck from the west and north.
This wide encircling movement caught
the Roumanians in a ring of iron from
which. despite their furious attacks.
they were unable to cut a way. Trapped.
thousands fo'ght to the death, others
were taken prisoners, while many are
afoot in the mountain wilderness tryinz
to lind their way to their comrades across
the rugged Alpine chain.
The thrust of Von Delmensingen's
troops in behind the Roumanians is greet
ed oy the German press as one of the
most notabl ni:litary achievements ofI
the war.
DECISION BY GREECE
MAY DEVELOP TODAY
Definite Statement of Decision to
Enter War Expected.
4By the International News Service.)
Lond-n, Oct. 1 -Dhnite statement of
'7reece's decision to join the war and
t:I immediate formation of a war min
trv in which probably will he included
.er Premier Venizelos, are possible
tmorrow, according to dispatches from
Kng Constantine. despite allegations of
f, .-volutionaries tbAt he Is only play
inc ainst' the clock. is authoritatively
reported to have reached a decision for
war on the side of the allies. and tor r
ro'w is the dar set for the monarch's
annoincement f this decision to the en
tcn-e retroo ntatives at Athens.
M-anwh.- the revolution is spreading
There is reported to have been serious
I - I r n7--e. % Greek island, between
1,vaI reservists and Venizeists. At Ath
,he Frenc h minister supplied a guard
a rm.br of Greeks who desired to
oi the reoiitionists at Saloniki. Under
'I- arms , this esenrt thev walked
' .9 the streets of the cat Ptal ti the
:nn. . -sre wh-re they 'arded a
nrer for Saloniki.
INFANT OF TWO WEEKS
DESERTED BY COUPLE
A lhb twowr-ks old was found aban
doted. :inc on a bret in the home of
Mr Mar. N,.- 74 Third street north
Aw-s, r1 r: 1 . y. with this note
p:nred I , r .
raldinp I- born September 13,
Ri'hmond I.
T ch 11 was 1eserted by a couple who,
camle to th place Friday afternoon in
an iuomni- andr engage.] a room.
I-rv S-nlay mrning the infant's cries
tr'act.d M-. Kane's attention and she
investigated
Then the rollee were notifi-d.
Bombs Dropped on Sofia.
Berlin fvia Sayville). Oct. 1.-Sofla re
I orts state that a hostile aeroptane drop
ped Mive small bombs on Sofa. killing one
ran and two horses and, ..lightly wound
Ing a woman and child.
AUTION SAT1ES.
ADAM A WFiCHT.i AUCTIONEER.
Trustees' Sale of Valuable Apartment
House at 1930 Eighteenth Street N. W, I
kinoeN as the Bei-rade.
Fty lirtoe of a -rta:n deed of truet, duly re
oIeid in Lirer 3643 at folio 4N6. one of the land
eco-rds fo h District of Columbia, and at the
wqaet of a' -ec'redi therey., the under
.en- t-rie, i' t _r pubUc auction is front
t:e iremies c, the ''d day of nctober, 1916. at
t.f rast for c-sIk '. %1 , the fsitleing described
land and premie ,t7 -t in the City of Wafhinz
t'n. District "f ir!,mbia, sod knewn and des
rated a, and betig Lot nuiir'd Forty-seen (C")
is Chars H. Davidso's biM ion of original
lot numbered F.i;ht (1 is Squarm uttbered One
Hundred and Thirty-one 1- . as per plat recorded
t, the office cf the nsrey-r for the District of Co
luhia io Liber 33 at folio 1s7; eriect to a Per
retual ret If way for a)!o p"irprwr, or the rear
or "e"t de feet of maid !t by the full width
threcf for use and benent of lot onnbered Forty
right Its, of -i subdifionu, together with the
imrovement therot. Sold sitbjac to a prior deed
0' trst f r Thirty Thousand dollars (e,00h furth
er rticulars >f which wili be stated at the sale.
T-mu: Pvr-h,,er may matime the existing an
conbrtance of Tirty Thousand D~otlars .00 and
tay o.e-third of +Se balance of the purchase prie
in csi the remsainder is one an:d tieo years. re.
speetev. with inte-eat at s per centuin tier
anneum, to be aeenred by deed of trust an the Map
Irty aold; ce psi alt cash seer sod abseprior
eneace df Thirty rhonaand Doliars (Lmi.
A deoit of Flve Hondred Dollars (50. niB be
requaired at the tite of the sale. Tases to be
adihuted day of rale. Title to he grood of record
or depsoatsit] hile refunded. Afl conveyancing, re
cording, ete.. at eo~s'a purchaser. Terms of sale
to he compied wit within fifteetn days frm date
of sale. Ohecciae tie deresit sill he forfelted sad
proysrty r-soldi at the rich and croat of etch ds
fasieig rchiaser. after tie (5) days advertisemenrt
at -'e resale in some new'spaper tiublieed in
wasinton,* DI. 'C.
U. GOLDEN DONALDSON,
Seuther n ilm'
EAROLD N1. DE WITy,.
Southern Building,
FRED S. SWINDELL,
Attorney for tarty senred.
Cmasrcial National Bank BuildIng.
This Is just one of scores of oppor
tunities bffered today In the ClassI
fled columns of Tlae ERALD on
page 11. Every day there are pre
sented opportunIties to buy, to sell..
to rent, to exchange, to lend or to
borrow. No matter what you want,
look for It In The HERALD Classi-|
fled Ads. If It Isn't there. Insert a
little Want Ad yourself-It Is a sure
Would Place Wager
Allies Win in War
(By lateratiemal News Sertlee)
New York, Oct. 1.-Here's a
chance for some war fan to back
his Judgment:
Sebastian Marti, styling himself
general manager for America, of
La Lucha. a newspaper published
in Havana, Cuba, today issued the
following announcement:
"l.a Lucha, of Havyna, an
nounces that it is willing to bet
$16,0 that the allies will win the
war. La Lucha will accept a
wager from any part of the world.
its offer remaining open until
October 7."
. C. TROOPS WAIT
Lack of Rolling Stock May
Delay Border Journey.
The departure of the artillery and
cavalry of the District National Guard
for the border today was rendered
problematical late last night by news
which reached Camp Ordway that a
shortage of railway cars had devel
oped.
Until last midnight it was regarded
as certain that the troops would get
away this morning, but the car short
age may now retard their departure
until late tonight or until tomorrow.
Railway officials held out no assur
ances of a departure on schedule
time.
The Guardsmen put in a busy day ye
terday saying farewell to their friend.
and winding up business affairs. sup
pressed excitement over the prospect of
departure for the border is general
throughout the ranks.
Cavalry Troop A and Battery A will en
train today and leave about 5 o'clock
in the afternoon, the field artillery going
to El Paso, Tex.. and the cavalry to
Fort Sam Houston, San Antonia, Tex..
traveling as far as Niemphis in the same
section. Capt. Louis C. Vogt will be
quartermaster. Capt. James Ht. Wash
burn will assume charge as quartei
master of his train after leaving the
battery. Capt. Herbert J. Bryson, of the
hopsital detachment, with two privates
yet to be designated, will ac-ompany this
section
Regimental Order No. 16 directs that
the Third Infantry's tents be stryck at
7:30 o'clock a. m. Tuesday morning, pre
paratory to the regiment's departure
Wednesday, and that the shelter tents, of
which each man carries one half, be
pitched. The kitebens are to be taken
down and the sections numbered so
they may be reassambled on the border.
The regiment will march to Rosalyn for
entrainment Wednesday. Each man will
take a seat assigned by -the section
quartermaster. Two seats are alloted to
CNONINED ON PAGE TN.
AMERICAN RETALIATION
RESENTED BY BRITAIN
Diplomatic Corps Believes Mail Con
cessions Will Be Made.
It has become known indirectly that
Great Britain is endeavoring t, prevent
the resort by this country to retaliation
for British interference with the Amer
ican malls. There is good reason for be
lieving that the delay in presenting the
reply to the American protest o May 24
is due to the time that has been taken in
making changes suggested for the ac
complishment of this purpoec.
A member of the diplomatic corps out
lined last night the current diplomatic
opinion as to the probable reture of the
Britisl reply. He said he had reason to
believe that the basis of the concessions
would be two main propositions: one,
that diplomatic pouches shall be immune
from censorship, and the other. that there
shall be a minimum of delay in handling
lusiness mail.
He said that in case of his country
its agents had watched the "minimum
of delay" agreed upon by Great Britain
and that a considerable improvement
over previous conditions had been noted.
It was said yesterday that England's
release of the prisoners taken from the
China some time ago and her recent re
lease of goods taken from American
ships bound for Manila were evidences
that she did not wish to continue any
scute controversies with the United
-tates at this time.
Unofficial information to the State De
partment has been that the British note.
which has been expected now for sev
eral weeks, was mailed to the British
Embassy in Washington Fr!day a week
ago. The Embassy orvears, however, to
have no knowledge of that fact. It was
stated there yesterdav that the reply had
not yet arrived
LINER RACES INTO PORT
WITH FIRE IN HER HOLD
(By the Iaternatieal News Servlee.)
New York, Oct. 1.-The American liner
Philadelphia raced into port today with
lice raginst in the hold beneath the steer
age dlining-room. For three days the
crew waged a thrilling fight against the
flames and only a few of the 646 passen
gers aboard knew of the peril which
threatened.
The fire was first discovered Thursday
afternoon when the liner was off the
Grand Banks of New Foundland. *irl
lng wisps of smoke were observed issuing
from hatch No, 7.
It was immediately reported to Capt.
Candy, who ordered the hatchway and
hold. hedmetically sealed, Live steeam
was forced into the hold, and Is still
being driven into it in an effort to choke
the flames.
KM. T. R. XA RSHATT H1
Takem With Ptomaine Polseui'as at
Dikh,i, In..
Elkhart, Ind., Oct. 1.-Mr., SThomas R.
Marshall. wife of the Vice President, was
so ill here today that a physician was
tailed to attend her. The symaptoms were
said to he those of ptonmaine poisoning
and Mrs. Marshall was placed under the
care of a nurse. Mrs. Marshall became
ill during the night, but it Wa belIeved
that she w== impr.o.e, teUne .
13 KILED IN CRASH
ON DETROIT CAR LINE
BUILETV.
Detroit. Mieb.. OV. 3-(Ondiny)
Thirteen persas were killed and an
unknown number injured when a
Grad Trnk Railroad switek engine
erashed into a cross-town street oar
at Forest and Dequindre streets hero
tonight.. Doeters have been rumbed
to the scene.
SCHOOLS REOPEN
Enrollment ol 50,000 Expect
ed by End of Week.
Forty thousand children. it is conserva
tively estimated. will register today in
the public schools of Washington. An
enrollment of 50.000 is expected by the
end of the week.
Classes in graded schools will begin at
9 o'clock and continue until three, with
an intermission of one hour from 12
o'clock to 1. There will be two recess
periods, one in the middle of the morning
session and another in the afternoon.
In the high schools classes will begin
at 9 o'clock and go on until 2. with a half
hour's intermission at midday. In some
Instances the work of reorganization
will necessitate dismissal of some class
es in the forenoon.
The kindergartens will begin at 9 o'clock
and continue until 12. There will be re
cess of liffteen minutes at 10:20 o'clock.
There will be no kintergarten In the
afternoon.
The school term will be nine months.
Supt. Ernest L. Thurston last night
said the usual period required for org6al
zation and meetings of teachers has been
made unnecessary by the teachers' work
of the past two weeks. The delay In
opening schools occasioned by the infan
tile paralysis epidemic will have little
or no effect on the pupil's progress, ac
cording to Mr. Thurston. The superin
tendent said the work of the past week
has been so successful that conferences
and lectures at the beginning of the
term probably will be held annually.
Superintendent Thurston has asked
mothers to see to it that their children
not only get to school on time, but also
attend every day.
Health Officer W. C. Weodward has
urged parents to provide well ventilated
and well-lighted rooms for children to
study in; to see that children are clean
In their habits and persons; that they are
examined by a physician if there is the
slightest suspicion of ill health; that they
associate with no children who have
contagious diseases; that they get at
least eight hour-' sleep and that they get
three good meals a day especially a good
breakfast.
There are about 100 school buildings
in the District. Three of these are recent
additions. They are the new Central
High School, said to be the moot modern
ly equipped in the country: the new six
fe. room Park View School. which is
to e used se a community center as well
as schoolhouse, and the Dunbar Colored
High School.
In the New Central High School busi
ness and manual training courses will be
given.
At the McKinley school a course in
rhort-story writing will be added to the
curriculum.
RECEIPT MAY IDENTIFY
POTOMAC RIVER VICTIM
Found With Trunk Check on River
Bank.
The identity of the woman whose body
was found floating in the river north of
the Mount Vernon mansion last Sunday
afternoon, which is still held at Wheat
ley's undertaking establishment at Alex
andria, may be disclosed by means of a
Wells-Fargo Express receipt, a coat label
and a duplicate trunk check on the Long
Island Railroad found early this morn
Ing on the river bank near where the
body was found by James Young, assist
ant superintendent of Mount Vernon.
All of the foregoing articles were torn
into shreds with the exception of the coat
label.
The Wells-Fargo Express receipt bears
the name of Mrs. J. E. Swartz. and is
dated September 22, 1916. Nothing else
could he made out on this receipt, it
being torn into tiny pieces.
Undertaker Wheatley, to whom the torn
bits of paper were turned over today
by Mr. Young, had them pasted together
and with the information obtained he
wired the chief of police of Chicago.
The coat label bore the name of Mar
shall Field, of Chicago. The shoes bore
the same firm's name. Parts of the trunk
check are also missing, it being of heavy
cardboard.
Since the finding of the body a number
of persons in search of missing ones, have
called at the undertaking establishment,
but have been unable to identify the
body. It was to have been buried this
afternoon had not these articles been
found.
SPENT 20 CENTS ON DANCES,
Accused of Recklessly Spending
Pay, He Owns Up.
Los Angeles. Oct. 1.-When Mrs. Mattie
1-. Fawkes in allmony court-recently ac
cused Howard B. Fawkes. to whom she
has been married for forty years, with
spending in dance halls a part of his
modest earnings, he acknowledged the
truth of the charge.
"I have been twice." said he, "and each
time it coat me a dime."
Mrs. Fawkes asked that her husband be
ordered to pay her temporar'y alimony
pending trial of her suit for separate
maintenance. After hearing that Mrs.
Fawkes lives with two of her children
who support her, Superior Judge Deby
denied her alimony,
GAVE LIFE TO RESCUE SHOE,
Lad Waded Berend His Depth to
Save Sister Prosa Whipping.
Boston, Oct. 1.-In an off t to re
cover his small sister's shoe hnd thus
save her from being punished at home
8-year-old Louis Kreiger was drown
ed In Scarboro Pond, Franklin Park,
A number of boys were sailing bqats
in the pond, and Roee Krelger, 7 years
old, had taken off her Shoes and
stockings to wade. A boy placed one
of the shoes on his boat for cargo, but
the little craft overturned and the shoe
sank. Louis Kreiger then traded out
to 'recover it, but sank in fifteen feet
of water, and nearly en boir elegged
beopre the body waa reegvg
Telegraph rTips|
Pt, Loul, Oct. L-When Gus CrIvella.
an AltOn, IlL. fruit dealer, attempted to
put his foot inte his shoe the other mnrn
ing a tarrantula two inches long fel Out.
He kiled It and has It on exhibition.
Boston, Oct. 1.-The Rev. Francis E.
Clark. presdent of the World's Christian
Endeavor Union, is in a comfortable con
ditlon at the Corey Hill Hospital follow
ing an operation for gall stones. He is 0
years old.
Superior, Wis., Oct. .-J. F. Kerwin Is
suing a shoe merchant here for 810.000.
He says he bought a pair of shoes with
the understanding that they had full
sewed soles, but it turned out they were
nailed. His foot-was scratched and in
fection set In.
Maysvllle, Ky., Oct. I.-Russell, 17
month-old son of Mr. and Mrs. W. C.
Moore, of Winchester. climbed on a
pedestal on which there was a bowl con
talning gold fish. Unobserved. he seized
one of the fish and swallowed it, and was
almost choked in the effort. A physiplan
said he was in no danger and had suf
fered no ill efects.
Buffern, N. Y.. Oct. 1.-At a bazaar at
Ramapo Farm the Misses Vera and Rita
Kohler raised nearly 310,000 for the Euro
pean department of the Red Cross. The
bazaar was on the lawn of Mrs. Charles
M. Kohler's place. Her daughter con
ceived the Idea of the bazaar, they hav
ing been in Paris with her and Mr. Kohler
in 1914 at the outbreak of the war. Mr.
Kohler dier in Parie at that time.
Woolwich. Me., Oct. 1.-Capt. John A.
Stinson. 94 years old, retired shlpmaster
and veteran of the Crimean war. is dead.
He leaves two sons and two daughters.
Philadelphia, Oct 1.-Awakened by
Nellie. a pet dog, the family of Louis
Berger escaped from their burning home.
at No. 150 Snyder avenue, through a sec
ond story window to a shed roof and then
to the ground.
Chicago, Oct. 1.-Dr. Lewis Cole, of New
York. has been chosen president of the
American Roentgen Ray Society at its
annusl convention. Rochester, N. Y.,
probably will be selected for the 1917 con
vention.
New York, Oct. 1.-Payne Whitney is
being sued in the Supreme Court for
$5.000 each in two suit.s for personal in
juries as the result of an automobile
accident on the Lakeville road, in
Manhasset. 1, 1., on October 4. 1915.
Thomas and Elmer C. Dwyer alleged that
a wagon in which they were riding was
upset when the Whitney car collided with
them.
New York. Oct. 1 -Of sixty-nine per
sons killed by vehicle- in the streets of
New York in September, thirty-six were
children less than sixteen years, ac
cording to a report issued by the Na
tional Highway Protective Society. Fifty
three of these deaths were caused by
automobiles--the largest number ever re
corded for one month. Trolleys killed
five and wagons eleven.
New York,-Oct. .- certified check for
31.1010,000 to cuver ani nheritance taxes
on the estate of Mrs. Ellen Stebbins
Curties James, widow of D. Willis James.
who died April 5, has been received at
the office of William Boardman, deputy
State controller. By the will of Mrs.
James, religious and educational in
stitutions received more than 83.000.000.
Arthur Curtiss James, son, received the
bulk of the estate.
New York, Oct. 1.-The Federation of
Anarchists held a meeting in Union
square to denounce those responsible
for the arrest of Carlo Tresca and seven
others in connection with their activities
in the Minnesota coal strike. The meet
Ing was addressed by Leo Stark, P.
Allegra., J. Feinberg. W. Shattoff and
Bernardo Sternaker.
New York. Oct. 1.-Edward O'Brien.
clerk of the Bronx County Court whose
home is at 410 East 143 d street, reported
to the police that a burglar entered his
apartment by a rear fire escape. stole
322 from his trousers pocket. a gold watch
from his mother and R cents from the
vest pocket of his brother.
New York. Oct. 1.-Ellhu Root will make
his first campaign speech at a Republican
club mass meeting in Carnegie Hall next
Thursday evening. This will be Mr.
Root's first speech since he addressed
the State committee last spring. Chaun
cey Depew will be another speaker.
New York, Oct L-A meeting of a com
mittee of the Actors' Equity Society will
be held next Friday afternoon in the ball
room of the Astor Hotel to discuss
"means of awakening actors to their civic
duties." Mrs. James L. Laidlaw will read
a paper on "Woman's Hour has Struck."
New York. Oct. 1.-The Rhinelander
School. 30 East Eighty-eight street, of
fers to boys of more than 14 years who
have become crippled by infantile paraly
sis an opportdnity to learn the jewelry
trade and thereby make themselves self
supporting. The course takes from one
to two years. To enter a boy must have
the use of his hands and be able to get
to his work unassisted.
This Is
NA TIONA L
The six days of the year that
custom has already matile the
period of preparation for those
who "dreas with the season."
"TANKS" HIT LINE
Crush Teutons for Big Gains
Close to Bapaume.
(By the Iaternational Sews servise.)
London. Oct. 1.-A powerful new strohe
today carried Gen. Haig's British troops
within two and one-half miles of Ba
paume, the high road to which they strad
die.
They smashed the German defense on
a front of a mile and three-quarters
strethting from a point east of Eaucourt
I'Abbaye to the Albert-Bapaume road.
The village of Eaucourt I'Abbaye Is re
ported in their hands, according to news
reaching Gen. Haig at headquarters.
The new blow was carried out after a
tremendous artillery bombardment, the
attacking troops being closely followed
by the terrible "tanks," which cleaned
out the German trenches by an enfilading
fire, while the infantry swept forward.
More than 30 prisoners ha been brought
In at a late hour tonit. making a
total of almost 30,000 on the British front
alone since the beginning of the Somme
operations.
Today's stroke followed a night of ac
tivity along the two-mile line between
Flers and Lesarse. The British made
progress here while the French. in small
engagements, claim to have pressed for
ward somewhat north of Rancourt and
southeast of Morval, where they are
striking at Saillesel.
"Since September 18 we have taken be
tween the Ancre and the Somme twenty
four field guns, three field howitzers and
thr'e heavv howitzers," says the official
report. "From July 1 to September 30
n the same area we have taken prisoners
-AR officers and 26.147 of other ranks."
On the British left in the Thiepval area
further gprogress in desperate trench
fighting around the Stuff and Shwaben
redoubts has been made.
The Germans. apparently in an effort
to create a diversion, and lighten the
tressure on their omme armies today
delivered a series of attacks against the
French front in the Tahure district The
French fire rendered the attacks fruitless,
according to the Paris report
RUSS BEGIN BIG PUSH
AGAINST LEMBERG FORT
Austro-German Armies Retreat. Los
ing 4,000 Men.
(By the Internatieal News Serviee.)
London, Oct. .-The two prolonged ad
vances of 'the Russians or Lemberg is
again gathering full headway, and the
Austro-German armies of Prince Leopold
of Bavaria. and Archduke Karl have
been pushed back. Both northeast and
southeast of the Galicia gap the Russians
have registered advances, capturing. ac
cording to the oficial report Issued in
Petrograd. more than 4,00 prioners.
Russian gains are lftnitted by Berlin.
The two may agi1Wa are being waged
in the regiot of Brody-Krasne tailway,
about thirty miles northeast of Lem
berg and in the Bresezany sector on the
Zolata Lipa River. fifty miles southeast
of the city.
In the former district the Russians have
pressed forward against heavy resistance.
taking about 1,000 prisoners. A Teuton
position on the right bank of the Zolata
Upa was carried on the southeastern sec
tor of the advance.
This new stroke of Gen. Brusiloff is
believed to have been made to forestall
the offensive contemplated by Field Mar
shal von Hindenburg.
FAIR HUGHES BOOSTERS
START ON TRIP TODAY
Mrs. Harry Payne Whitney to Break
fast Campaigners.
(By the Internatiosa News service.)
New York. Oct. 1.-The women's cam
paign special train for Hughes starts on
its trip across the continent from the
Grand Central Depot tomorrow at 11:30
a. m. Prior to the departure, Mrs. Harry
Payne Whitney is to give the spell-bird
era a breakfast at the Plaza.
Among the guests will be Mrs. Cornelius
Vanderbilt, Mrs. Raymond Robins, Mrs.
Gifford Pinchot, Mrs. Nelson O Shaugh
nessy, Mrs. Herry Meskowitz. Mrs. R.
Livingston Bleeckman, Mrs. Randell L.
Le Bouef, Mrs. Charles Summer Bird,
Miss Helen Varick Boswell, Dr. Kath
erine B. Davis, Mrp. William E. Ein
stein. Mrs. George Harvey and Miss Eliz
abeth Cutting.
The train committee tonight Issued the
following bulletin explaining "all aboard
for Hughes and why:"
1-To get votes for Mr. Hughes.
2-To bring together the women who
vote and the women who don't. This is
not a suffrage train. It is a united move
ment on the part of the women of Ameri
ca behind the great national issues of this
campaign.
HIGH SCHOOL GRIDIRON
STAR AMONG MISSING
(By the International News Service.)
Everett. Mass., Oct. 1.-Search Is
being made in every city and town in
New England for Fred Marshall, cap
tain of the Everett High School eleven,
who disappeared Saturday after he
had been notified that he' would not
be permitted to play in a game be
tween this team and that of Colby
Acadcmy, New London. N. H.
He was barred from football by the
school authorities because he was be
hind in his studies, Mar'shall left a
note for his mother, In whIch he said:
"I have been declared ineligIble to
play and cannot stay to face the mu
'sie."
The team suffered from the sence
of Marshall, being defeated for the
first time frr four years,
SAR~SI'D FOR GROWING FAT.
Change Proma Lee. to Stout Te
Piae. Tee Quickly to S9It Cop.
St. Louis, Mo., Oct. 1.-The trans
figuration of Prank P. Walsh, 50 years
old, of the Pacific House, caugl~t the
eye of a policeman at Ninth and Mar
ket streets one night recently and
caused Walsh's arrest,
Walgh was as slim as Mutt of Mutt
and Jeff when he passed the police
men at 9 p. in., and when he again
passed ten minutes 'later he lookedi
like Weber, of Weber and Fields.
The mystery was solved when the
poliosman found four bed sheets
tanea aa h.ansth Walshs vill
C
Joh D. Picks SL Paul
As Good Busins Man
(By Internst al News servioe.)
Cleveland. Ohio. Oct. .-at. Paul
a a captain of industry would
have been a fomnan worthy of his
steel, John D. Rockefeller remark
ed this morning after listening to
a sermon in which the evangelist
was sighted as a splendid example
of the forceful man.
"Tes, St. Paul would have been
a great success as a business
man," Mr Rockefeller added. "All
he would have needed is capital.
and a man like him would have
had no trouble in getting credit.
He was persistent, and persistency
is the tng that gets you some
where in modern days.
"What a leader he would have
made for a big concern."
RED SOX WINNERS
Chicago Eliminated From the
American League Race.
Cleveland Ohio. Oct. 1. - Cleveland
clinched the 1916 championship for
Boston today. With Coumbe hurling
masterful ball against them the White
Sox tumbled by 2 to 0 in the first
game of a double-header and a defeat
wiped out the last chance to even tie
the Boston Red Sox ' o (-hicagoans
came back in the second hattle with
a terrible kick, knocking the pill to
all corner, of the lot and winning.
-with ease. to 4.
This double-header today marked the
final game for the Windy City team.
If Chicago had captured both ends of
the double attractior. they still would
have been In the race, as the champior.
Boston Red SOx have three games to
llay with the lowly Mackmen and two
defeats in this final series would have
riven Comiskey's clan clear claim to the
tile.
In the fifth inning of the first game
Cleveland scored on a hit batsman. I
two sacrifces, an error and a single.
The other run went over in the eighth
without the aid of a hit. Faber hit
Graney. Chapman bunted and Graney'
would have been forced at second but
Faber threw high to Terry. Graney'
going to third and scoring on Roth's
sacrifice fly. The only hits off Cournbe
were singles by Hasbrook In the fifth
and McMullin in the ninth.
In both the first and third innings
,of the second game Felsch slammed
Penner for triples. each time with two
on. The Sox scored two on Gould in
the fourth, one on Lambeth to the
In 5TUMW ON PASE IWV
TERRiIC SEA
EXPECTED BEFORE LONEi
Neutral Diplomat Says Germany Will
Be Forced to Fight.
"Before the winter comes on there will
be another terrific naval engagement In
the North Sea and the Germana will p.e
cipitate it."
This statement was made yesterday by,
a diplomat representing a neutral nation
which with the aid of secret agents has
carIfully foilowed the events of the
u pean war. The diplomat received h:s
information from his government.
The Germans feel that such a move is
'up to them.' as you Americans say. he
continued. "The great drive by the allies
in France has caused criticism in Ber:ln.
The German cabinet wishes to strengthen
the public's confidence
"In fact. the progress of the allies on
the German front has made sonme positive
action on Germany's part, eitl er on land
or sea. almost imperatIve. For it is not
alone at home that the war cabinet
wishes to ma-kc an impression. Germany
desires to show her enemies that she is
still powerful in the nations of the
world. So I look for a repetition of the
Jutland fight at any time
WHITE HOUSE AUTO
IN COLLISION; 3 HURT
Srecial to The Wshiinros Herald
New York. Oct. L.-Three White House
employes were seriously injured in Long
Branch. N. J., yesterday Iin a collisior
between a White House automobile and
another machine a short distance from
shadow liwn. the summer reeldenye of
Pr,-sident Wilson. (;ne of the occupants.
Iorge Diggs. colored. was thrown
through the wooden top of the mnahine
and was in a critical condition at a
local hospital last night. The other tw
men. Emerick Johnson and William Hen
son, colored, were not so badly hurt.
Dr. Cary Grayson, physician to the
President, attended the men. The local
police were investigating tonight the
assertion of the White House employe,
that another machine ran into their
automobile from behind.
SENATOR CLARKE DIES
AT ARKANSAS HOME
(Bly the iuternatioasl N~ews ttervice.)
Little Rock, Ark. Oct. 1 -Senator
James P. Clarke died at his home here
this afternoon. He was taken ill
suddenly with acute indigestion in his
office Wedngday afternoon and early
Saturday was sa~icken with paralysIs.
since which time he was in an unomn
sei ous condition. He is survived by
his wife, two daughters, Mrs. Joseph
W. House. jr., and Mrs. Rtobert Will.
lame, and one son. James P. Clarke.
Associate Justice W. F. Kirby. who
opposad him in the primaries twoj
years ago, will very likely be ap
pointed to succeed him.4
98, HAS HAD SEVE WIE.
Kansas City. Mo.. Oct. 1.-"Ever'
married before?" Justice Casimir J.
Welch asked Jonas Mitchell, Kansas
.City, Kana., an old negro. after he had
obtaid a rmarriage license at the
courthouse.
"Oh. Lordy, yes, seven times." re.
plied the negro.
He told the nma-riage ii'ense clerk
ihe wAas 98 years old. JustoV Welch
married him to Hattie Glass, 44. Ksn
sas City, Kana afld they wn bac
LONDON WRECKS
TEUTON RAIDER
leppein Reported Shot Down
During Air Attack.
(Bt the liternatimal News bevwen
London (October 2 (Monday).-Another
reppelin is reported to have been bt
1own during a raid, which is "tl in
progress at an early hour this msdag.
The first report, issued by Pid1 Mar
iheJ Sir John French. commanding the
iome forces, sYas
"A number of hostile airships crossed
he east coast between 9 o'clock (Sun
lay- and midnight. A few bombs were
iropped near the coast. No damage has
et bee reported. The raid is stIll in
)rogrees.
'Some airships are in the vicinity of
London, where some guns have been in
ketion. An airship is just reported
irought down In flanes north of London.
"Up to the present time no damage to
lactories or works of military impor.
ance has been reorted. It is regretted.
iowever. that a number of small houses
nd cottages wer, wrecked oi -maged
i Some place.
"The ailders wer cr'> -e -
kircraft defen.es and ce e.crefully
Iriven off f!ii. vevera' I' ir utr al
ntrs"
EMOCRATIC CONGRESS
SEEN BY M'CORMICK
hairman Claims 'Wilson Victory and
Congressional Majority.
By the Intersatieoal Nen.e kervslee.
Ne Y Yik. <)rt. : -I: , T-a - t
ted this ,vening Chairn.n V:.n-r <.
'ormick of tih. t iomo '' N ' m roal
'onmitt"e say
"Two thsngs Ftan out c :n
he campaign thus far - They i, ':'
olute fai:ute of the Hignes canid-y
nd tihe crtai'tn a!t Wrd Wa..
ilL be re-elected l-ei'd,'ni of te ' 7ied
tates on NoveTrhe -
' R-rt thatI I have -e-,-ved from a'!
art- of !h " frnt- n' '-t m that
he Pred-dent has it, r'--;p" with h'ni
nd that they a'-c r:ng ho a1&k hir- up
vith a .ne big m-rr , -tt -m 1 tior day
knd furthermore I . are gr.# t, re
leet a Iem' ocrat"e ' . - e t n ' ,e ate
rith him in enacting moroe legM,!atior in
he interest of the p-'opr*
'In the East, the West, the N.-h and
he South, the people are ha;;- and con
ented. The country is a peace Pros
erity riles the land as never before
'actories are working to their limit The
>anka. always a barometer of business
4mdiions, are bulging with
nalMuie t Wnssa has brovA09m s"
perity to thnvt% an that is the
~Mass that the can people ae for
lim My l i 1ho1 that the Sena'e
rill remain overwhelmingly Dernloc:a'r
Lnd that the Democwratic majority it ?he
-louse wi he in-reased t- upA-' 1
HITCHCOCK SENT WffT
ON GIJM*SHOE MISSION
kepublicans Expect Lieutenant Io
Help Doubtful States.
[By the Iaternatiemal News %e1ie.)
Nrn Yolk. net 1 -Repub. '. t
lential Nornin- Huh -V N's'
'ha:ran Will'ol hot " e ' esse d I er"'
selveF as happy as ever oer I hr , .a
ion at the conclusion of a th-- h-ur
onfer-nce at the Iot, Ator
Nevertheless they dirfsahre t-ank
R. Hitchock to the ''-t toak a
leal.-- - if po rssi' C
_ tates H1i-hrek w-i mnd 'n 'h ago I
niorrow From thr-e he w:'I 'ake dash-P
.nto Ohin -her( the Hughes manaR'r
ire to make a bIg drive this trt.
[ndiana and adjaent Ftate"
Mr Hughes meantime. wil m-et on
ruesdar evering W%''"lmarm H Ta.
Theodore Roosevelt Fl hI Root and
ithers at the V'nion Legue C'lb recep
ion. Then h- hies himself %ayh to
-ore sequestered spot to res! '.nr'lI his
hird %%istern troi '> zniT I-,
Tomorrow NIr liughes prohaty wili
"onsulit with lha rmani W't1-a the
Republican Sensri.a cAl ,'aic -
nittee., Gov Whtna M. I'h r.- nn
ranner and others ab-' C''on.:'e
ila' situation and the an
his Stat.
GEN. PENNYPACKER DIES
OF CIVIL WAR WOUNDS
By the isternational News heraice.)
1T' lae'pmhIa, o Iet 1--e: .alusha
'enrypbcker. t A . retired. died
n thr Jef' Hostital early toda
rom a (compicam or f disese.which
w-re the outcome of th many
vounds received In the rivil sar He
as 2 year old
Geni "'m ypacker. -wh-o was the
'ungest officor in all th. 'nion and
onfederai armies to win the rank of
'rigadie r general . was a ousir. of
tarnuel W Pennypiker. formerly gov
rnor of Pensrylvanla, who died about
month ago I
Gen Pemnypacker yas born inChes'
er County, Pa .'on June 1. 1s44
DOUBT VALUE OF POTASH
Armeewr's. H4owever. Admtt 5ending
Espert to aee Cubue Fleld.
Chicago, Oct. 1.-De Witt Brown. nice
president of the .\rttour Fertilizer
W~orks. aaid this evenimg that the coms
pany had .,ent an ex~pert to Cuba to int
restigate the report of the discov'ery of
i'-bed of potash ins the island.
"Joseph Chapman, one of oar aperts
mJrrived in Cuba Thursday ht." said
Mr. Br'own. "Fro reports that we have
hrom other sources we are et the opinion
that there may be sine poiise contained
in, the rock. but we de not ke:1ieve It is
tihere in paying quatlitit. We believed
it best, however, to send an expet to In
vestigate. We will not get a report for
some timne fromn him."
Whitman's Campaign Cost 3otin.
Albany. Ot 1.-Gow Whitman's
r'ampaigtn for renosnination c-ost hitt
nething , acc-ordintg to nlb staternentt
of expener. 'led yesterday with the
eistnry of nate The governor seid
be received so easapaiga .ostriS,
unna -
