The Dot Pictures
An Instructive and Interesting
Feature for Little Folks.
16th YEAR SKS8&1&. RICHMOND, VA., MONDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1916?EIGHT PAGES. ?CLEAR PRICE, TWO CENTS
fUclimottft ffimeg-JUsprtfch
ff
The Grip of EviV
Reati This Thrilling Story Each
Day in The Times-Dispatch
AMES P. CLARKE ;
DIES OF APOPLEXY
Jnited States Senator From Ar
kansas and President Pro Tem
pore of Upper House.
-AW GRADUATE AT VIRGINIA1
Many Times Leader in Opposi
tion to Measures Proposed
by His Party.
'<11 n.K ROOK, ARK,, October 1 .?
enator James p, Clarke, of Arkansas,
'resident pro-tempote of the United
?tates Senate, died at ><!<? home here" at
o'clock this aft<yrioon. Senator
? larke suffered a stroke of apoplexy
?'i Friday and never regained oon
clousness. News of his death came a?
?shock, an it wai not generally known
; n tl I to-day that his condition was
??rioua.
Senator iJlarkfc wax born at Ya 7.1*0
-Ity, Miss.. Austin IS, i$51. He w.i<?
ducat ed in the school? of his nativ??
?tate, and in 1MT8 graduated from t!ic
aw department of the University of
1 irjinl#. He b^gan tiie practice of
aw in Helena. Ark.; in 1ST?, he served
n the Arkansas Legislature, an<J later
elected Attorney-General of tho
;tate and Governor. In 1Kr?-J lie was
lerted t'nlted States Senator and re
jected last year for hi* third term.
Us present term as United States
-enator would not littve expired until
da roll H. 1921.
V M-:XSATIO\A|. ItKXtll.T
AGAINST MIII'I'IM. llil.I,
\\ A.SIHNOTON, October 1.Senator
'larke had been president pro-tenipore
'f the Senate sin' e the Petnocra ti<
?arty gained control in l'MT,. Me was
hosen l>v the party ?,?'!fiiv to rrj<-' .-td
he late Senator l-Vyr, of Maine, .tnd
v*s re-elected t?. the :?1a< e in :ne
>'ixt>-fourth * :otifrr?. ?-s. despite deter
uinfd opposition 1 ?;? ?????j ?><; h:- ^'nsa
lora' r.e* nit awaiust t;>?:t? ,n!?tra
in*i *htp-p<i| <-ha -? .i] v ' L- ? is
>na ?(>??
In the i lo.^ins d.is <-.t t la- last ses
<ion he presided i?wr the Senate, ow
ng to the absence of Vice ? I'r esident
?larshall. The railroad etuht-hour bill
vas passed with Senator Clarke in the
?hair, but he was one of two Demo
'ratio Senator* to vote against the
Measure, anil lie refused to sign it.
le appointed Senator lluphos as act
ng president pro tempore when t'je
?ill was presented at the presiding
'(I?c<v/'h chair for HiRnature. He was
tiany times the leader in opposition to
neasures proponed by his party. Tho
lltna-x to hip Independence was reach
?d when he led the Democratic revolt
itrain.st the shippurchase bill.
Senator Clarke acted for t-everal
?ears as chairman of the important
'omniitte" on '"'??rnmer''e. lie also w;ts
)i- tanking T)e;rjoeratic member of rhe
>?! ? w ii Relations Comniitte,
RIOTING IN YONKERS
lint ire Police Roriy I n IJ <1 tint io
<|nell Outbreak In ( nniiri-limi
Uitli StHkf.
.N'l'.W V'RK. October 1.?Rioting ??<?
. w t c<l to-day when an attempt was
n.tiie by the Yorker? Ruilroad Com
pany. whose men are on strike, to run
surface cars .'mm Yonkets to tho Van
ortland Park terminus of New York's
Mibway system. Onrt car reached the
Mtbway, hut riot until the motorman
ind conductor had been severely
tru Inert and all windows of the car
? roken by bricks and other ui:?siles.
The entire police force of Yonkers.
ujmberlng i.'00. wjis called out to quell
he riot, and twenty arrests were man*-,
-everal persoris n ere hurt, but none
-? riously.
Although service on all surface cart*,
oibway and eJ:,vBted railway lines in
\>w York City is nearly normal, and
? 'i.cials of the companies declare ti.at
tl?e strike, which be*an September 6.
i.o f:\ilecl. no attempt wns made until
???-?;.?;. to operate cars In Yonkers.
HELD FOR TRAIN ROBBERY
' no Men Arrested in Detroit In t'on
neclion With llecent Itolriup of
Mlrhlfriii Central l-:*pre??. \
MKTROTT. M1CTI., October 1.?Two
ikii ate being held by the police hero
>i> suspicion that they may know
? ontething about -the holdinc: tip of a
Vichittan Central passenger train ten
nllcft west of here last \Vcdr;esda>.
I l,ey weie taken into custody to
lidht after a third man told the police
hat two men had oontlded to him that
M?cy robbed a passenger trvin :? i >?1
??.'otawav with it." and that I hey had
?i opportunity to "make some tnot'6
? tie-" if he would join then:.
?SAFETY FIRST" IN LONDON
? m IIhi? I'nmpnnlei* Send l.eettirern to
?^eltnoln to Tell of Dnncrro of
< 'nreleswnenn.
>VI?>N', Dclobcf I.?So many chil
tt have been run over by tho pon
. ; o-.'s omnihusscp of (.ondon that th?
..nioanles operating them have en
::-^-e.l a special staff of instructors to
take a lour of the schools to lecture
,n the dangers of carelessncsn on (he
t e. t?. ft is planned to extend tl.e
?nnpaign by sending the Instructor*
otiii'l to the cla.Psrooms with cinema
? ?^raph illustrations of how risks to
i-' ?nd limb can be avoided.
Injured In CnlllMlon.
\VA V<!I??!?SS, OA.. Octoiicr 1.--Several
,crsonwere injured in a rr>ar-cnd c-ol
' islon between the Dixie Flyer and the.
?onthlnnd, both northbound on Ihc At
antlu Coast Kine Railroad, at Folk
iton, Qa.. late to-night, according to
?'eports reaching here. Dotalla of tho
trreok *r*ve> not available,
Car Strife Slops
Service in Atlanta
Company, Promised Sufficient
Police Protection, Will Re
sume Traffic To-Day.
ATLANTA, OA., October I.?All city
and suburban .street Lars j? .in(',
around Atlanta stopped running b?.
for? noon to-day, the Oeorgia Kail,v.,v
and ower Company claiming that lo
C, J'0,,cc wcrc '?o? s i \ 1?B them suffl
c ent protection against strikers and
?>'?Pathlzeis. Sunicient pol,.;e
protection was r>romiv^,i fcir lo.lnor.
iow, and :t was announced that regu
"fvlce would be rwumcd Mon.luv
( morning.
{ The st! Ike wa, call..,! ;,i o'clock
, . a tur a\ afternoon, "solely to enforce
; the right to organize and the rl?lit of
j roe speech." according organizers
I <> c ornl branch of tli* Amalgamate!
Association of su...., #t?j KUcirlr ItaH
way i:mploverH r.f America.
Ten arrest*, according to the police
reports, were made iU8t nl|fht an<| to.
uay. chiefly charge* of "disorderlv
conduct" as .1 result of Interference
with movements of cars, and Atlanta's
streets presented in the downtown sec
'ion an unusual appearance as cars
moved irregularly through crowded
'Streets, while their crews were sub
jected to Jeers and hoots, in some In
Mane??, police reports showed, trolley
poles were pulled down and the ropes
cut. Arrests, it was said, were chicilv
for such acts. After the cars stopped,
.hundreds of Jitneys and private auto
mobiles were pressed into service.
1 There were little or no instances of
I actual violence or destruction of prop,
crty ("ported by police.
j HUGHES BACK IN NEW YORK
I I Mr,| ? ,nnp?il*n |onr, |,|rh Win
j Mini i nr t\>?| *? Vohrnaka.
Stfirta on October 9.
! XI.w Vul'.K, Octobe 1.?Charles K.
II'-iglie. returnoj b??re to-day. aft?r
- two weeks' ton r .,r the Middle
West ?M,i of v<iw Vork s?a,r
lie conferred at length with William
It. Willcox. chairman of (l,.. 1:. r. iiih
( ' aii National Commit t*-r
?Mr. Hughes plans to remain in -his
' ?> until Wednesday, whej) 1," >\ i|
t<> some nearby town r ,u to |.f. ,ic_
1 et mined for a day.' rest before
Matting on O tober :? his third
?? <mpaitrn io?r, w|,b h i> expected fo
<a!<' Ilim a s far West as Nebraska.
Tuesday night he w-j)J be ,he K.,est of
honor at a rr< epiion here at the Union
, l.eague I'htb at which former PresU
I dent* Koos.velr Ta f t will be prA.
J cm.
f';<c.n his arrival to-day. Mr. Hughe
< \\. ..,-e.i i,|?,*clf ^-.tisned w-ili
th< p;ogres? of hi? canifiniffi). He Is a
j tritlr li'i.t r?e f. omi speech-making, but
j i'\ "e. f ?- ,!):.? 1,1* v.?:. . vill be hi pood
sh?;.. 1,. ? ory his next
too-.
Pol ITli \ 1 ? \ Ml' \ It.M\t.
??r iiiivi' M(?iii:it\ i \ |.f.
> '".W v-m:k. October I.?Political
"f ?!?* most modern type
? l?e inaugurated on Tuesday by the
N" "v Vork State. Hughes Alliance. It
?? announced here to-night, when an
? le. trie automobile truck, thirty-seven
? l'?ng. carrying a band, speaker?,
j and literature for distribution, will be
- -'' a fip through the State. The
truck will ko as far as Albany and S>
I ???? :se. and. if rnad conditions permit,
:i is p".itM:ed t.. visit Ito.hf-t,- ..id
Mufi'alo
' THIRTEEN KILLED IN WRECK
More Tlmn I wentt-| |Ve Injured NM.e.i
, SnHel. Engine < ranhf, Into CrorrdcH
'l>ol|e.r Car In Detroit.
I'KTKOIT. MICH . October 1.?Thir
teen persons were killed and more than
I twenty-flve injured, several probably
.fatally, late to-nisbt when a switch
j enjrine pushing two freight cars
'crashed into a vtowded trolley car at
1 Forest Avenue anri fienuinde;- Street,
; ?u the 10.1st Side. There were more'
than ninety persons In the street car,
many of them returning from the
I hen tei s.
The street car was struck almost in
the center, the impact pushing It from
the tracks and sliding it alongside of
, tho freight cars.
Panic-stricken passengers began
: Jumping from both the front and reat
doors and climbing through windows.
! Most of (be dead were killed bv jump
, ing from the car and falling under the
wheels of the still moving freight cars,
j To-night's accident Is the third of a
, similar nature here in the last year
(and the second to occur at the l-'orest
j Avenue crossing.
GERMANS NOT UNDERFED
I '-??.? HI*., and Some'.Vrt,,.|M s,*r(.?
I here I* I.lttle Ileal
Hunger.
w, ,r 11.0 .Vc.l,orl??!l,
. n fltcr of War to investigaie tj,e lat
. ,e''mm, methodH of treatment of
b n .S from nervous <-oi
.ipse and kindred ailments. l>r /eo
handeJaar. of the Dutch army medical
-rvice also took advantage of his stay
l e ,lie" ;0,,0nk in,? question of
the allftged chronic underfeeding i? the
'?crtiian capital.
j "I went for the purpose." writes ur
./.cehandelaar. "to Wannseo l.ake. the
( popular family bathing resort, where {
was able to inspect some thousands of
.erliners of all ages, stripped to 'the
buff. only wish my city patients
looked like then.. The feeding in Her
1 si is said to be tho worst in Ocrnianv
? with the exception of the garrison
! towns. Ihit if much privation has to
! be suffered, there is no real hunger. I
took my meals purposely in tho most
I simple eating-houses. Food is mu.>h
j dearer than normally, but there is still
j sufficient, and Ihe poorest arc cared
j for. The impression that I. and many
| Willi me. had thai the war could not
j I.'st much longer because the stamina
(of the people was suflerintr loo much
j from underfeeding is assuredly very
exaggerated, if not entiroly incorrcct.
WILSON TO VISIT 1
OMAHA THIS WEEK
Will Follow Same General Line
of Saturday's Speech in
Future Addresses.
HENRY FORD GUEST TO-DAY
I
Receives Number of Telegrams
Bearing on His Repudiation
of "Disloyal Americans."
I.MXG HKANCH, N. J.. October I.--So
many message* congratulating Presi
<1 erit Wilson on his speech Iw-re yusl?r
?lay were received by him to-day that
lie has decided to follow the same pen- i
era.1 line in fijtute addresses at Shadow I
Imwh. liis speeches in Omaha, Indian
spoils, Chicago :? ri<1 New York, which .
will lie before nonpartisan organiza-I
Hons, will he less political in tone.
A > i :i iikrni'nt s were completed to-day
for the President's trip to Omaha, he- (
tinning Tuesday. lie will arrive in I
Omaha on Tliur.-day morning at 11:11
o'clock, and will remain there until 10 j
o'clock that night, returning to I.orig ]
branch on Saturday morning at 10 j
o'clock. Saturday afternoon he will
address an assciublaKe of independents
here.
A busy day lias been arranged for i
him In Omaha. Soon after his arrival 1
he will attend a luncheon at the Com-j
tnercial flub. Then he will ride at the j
head of a historical pageant, and later j
review it. After dinner In the evening;
he will speak at the Omaha Auditorium.
IIKVHV I'OHI) WI1.I. I.I." .\('H
WITH I'lUOHIOIi.Vr TO-IIA V
Ilentv Kord. of Detroit, who recently
came out in support of Mr. Wilson for j
another term, lias been invited to visit j
the President here, and will lunch with
him to-morrow. Prospects for peace in
Kurope are evpected to be discussed.
Pi evident Wilson received a titimbor I
of telegrams to-day bearing on hlsNj
message to Jeremiah O'I.eary. president
of the American Truth Society, telling j
him he wanted no 'VHeJoya 1 Americans"
i to ? ote for him. Most of the telegrams
praised the President for his stand, but
a fw i.'iiticized him.
Statements made by a bt other of Mr.
[??"l-eary that suit should he brought j
I against the President for libel were
| received lightly by administration ofii
I cials. N'o comment was made, except
| that President Wilson personally ,
j handled the telegram to Mt. 0'l?eary,
land stands l<: ck of the message.
MYSTERY IN THEIR DEATHS
I \Rril Mitiileii Sinter* mnl \ Ultor to
I'lielr Home Pound Dead. sittine
iVrw'l in Thrlr 4'hnlr*.
l,sN<'ASTKf:. OHIO. October 1 ?
Neighbors of Agues and Alice Smet
i ters, maiden sisters, aged forty-eight
nn<l llfty years respectively, seeing no
, activity about the home of the two
women to-dav, entered the hntiso to
night. and found the two women anil
, Alisx Alary Sttotton. tliitty. a visitor
sitting e*ec-t in rocking chairs and all
three dead. There was no .?ign of vio
lence ov poisoning, anil an examina
tion of the s.is pines revealed no leaks.
Medical attention revealed no cause
for the deaths, and the bodies have been
taken charge of by the coroner, who
is attempting to solve the mystery of
the deaths.
x That death bad come nuic-tly was
evidenced by the fact that one of the
sisters had on her glasses and was
holding a newspaper. There was no
food in the house except half of an
apple pie, nnd this showed no siRti of
poison.
The .stomachs of tlithree women
will be sent to Columbus on .Monday for
a na lysis.
SAFE AT PHILADELPHIA
littenirtl l.crniHii (miner*. ( mler ton-,
kit of \inerlcnn llattlr?lii|w.
Iteaeli^* \?*?? Port.
PI II I.A DEI .PI 11A. October I.- Oon
\oyed by the Coiled States battlesbit-s
Aii.mesota and Vermont, the interned
German cruisers Kronprinx Willielm
and F'rinz Kite} T'riedrlch arrived .it
the Philadelphia Navy-Yard to-night!
from Norfolk. A convoy of twelve!
warships escorted the interned oruis-'
ers up the coast, because it was neces- '
aary to g<, outside the three-mile
limit. Ten of them came only as far
as the Delaware Capes.
The cruisers were sent to the local
| yard, because the space at the Nor- ;
folk yard was needed for new shops. !
They have complements of 7(4 officers
and men. and. although the Hermans
will be l<ept in close confinement, navy )
officials said facilities at the Phila-j
delphia Navv-Yard would giv> them!
more freedom than they enjo> e.l :it
Norfolk.
MINISTER FALLS DEAD
Ktplren While Putting On Unite* Pre- ?
purntor.v In OWrliitlne lit
m Hnptlsm.
PI 111,AI?J*:iipl 11 A. October I. ?The
IJev. Thomas Needham. pastor of the:
P.ethlohein fiaptist t'hurch. i. this city,
died of heart disease at the <-iove of
the morning services in the church,!
while putting on his gown prcpara-.
tory to officiating at a baptism. He
was sistv-one years of age ami was
widely known as an evangelist.
RIPLEY ISSUES APPEAL
unto MtteklinlilerB to Wyrl? for l.egl??
lotion to Meet Situation ( rented
l-'.l?ht-lliHir l.mv.
NKW VOIIK. October I.?Kdward P.
lllplcy, president of the Atchison, To
peka and Santa Kc Hallway, sent to
day to tl. > stoelj^iolders of the com
pany an appeal to them to work for
the passage of remedial legislation to
.met the situation created by the pan.
sage by Congress of the eight-hour
law at the request of tho four railway
brotherhoods.
Big Liner, Afire,
Safe in New York
Few of (he 646 Passengers on
the Philadelphia A Ware
of Their Peril.
<
t
XliW TOISK. October 1.?Kir* wht<:h
look#; out in the cargo hold of the
American Lljic sfamship Philadelphia
on Thursday, miles fiom this port,
still w,i- smoldering under a blanket
of steam l-j,-iic arrived hero to
da>. S? successful were the officers
and crfw in keeping the news f s om
the passengers. that few were
aware of the peril until after the lily
liner docked.,
Thft fust intimation <>f lire was when
smoke was -" !i pouring from a hatch
almost direct;;. under the steerage
dininx-ro.m .. 11 The officers. it was
said, removed 'he :m:j steerage pas
jsengeis at otc <?. and took precautions
to keep th?? news from spreading to
the first 'ind second-cjihhi passengers.
I Wl^lf the 1.:.|7.p was qUicklv under
I control, no time .was lost in steaming i
! to port.
The Philadelphia left TJverpool on
I Saturday. September JO. How the flre
i started, it ivas said, has not been de
termined. ? loading of the cargo hold
cheeked (?-.< flaniey. according to the
crew.
FOR TRADE WITH CHINA
IteKular ^Killncii I ontcinpt* ted lie*
! nrtfii *?ontli Atlantic Porta anil ^
Orient by Nfn f?npi(f.
WAHIU.VCT'J.V, October 1.?Organi
zation of the Chinese-American Kx
i change Company, a shipping corpora
tion. which prnpo.e.ji io inaugurate a
! genera! mercantile trade between China
and American ports on the Pacific,
; Oulf and South Atlantic, was announc*
e.J here to-night fi is headed he Dr.
Clarence J. Owen*, managing director
of the Southern <'"ominercial Congrcs?
and is understood to have the actual
(backing of that concern.
establishment of regular sailings is
; contempts ted between Norfolk, Charles*
( ton. Wilmington, Savannah, Jackson*
vllle. Mobile a;.d Galveston, on the east,
eoasi. and San Pedro, l.os Angeles. San
j Francisco and Portland, on the west
coast. At Portland connection will be
i made with another fleet plying to and
from the Chinese treaty ports. A bond
| is*ue or 51.500,000 will l?e made soon,
; company oflicials announced,-- No date
. has been set for the inauguration of
sailings. , ?
In order to promote trade between
this country and China, officials of the
..?ompany announced, permanent exhi
i bi:^ <>f Chinese prtidiicis will be es
jtablished in fourteen cities throughout
the United States." Oetieral offices will
be at the Southern Building hf-re.
WEST POINT OVERCROWDED
t'oninl \ec?*?n?ir?" to Put Three I'lrirtl
III llitnrn W lili'll Normally
Contain* Only Tr?o.
[Special to The Times-Dispatch.]
WASHINGTON. October I.?Secretary
of War Baker returned from his politi*
leal tour of Ohio to-day, and took tip
the question of overcrowding at West
Point. It has been found necessary
there to put three cade's in a room
which normally contains only two.
The crowding has been caused by
the arrival of ! s?"? new cadets beyond
the usual number. Congress authorized
: the appointment of the additional
? adets. but it added no provision for
their accommodation. Staff officers
, pointed out to-day that If emergency
legislation is tiot passed, it will be
necessary next year to put four cadets
in tbe rooms now occupied by three.
BODY COVERED WITH ROSIN
llltiiiviTi in Connection \\ Itli Heath
of Mr*. Smull. Wtinae llunhanii In
Held for Marrier.
M'iI NTAIN VIF.W. N. II.. October 1.
--An examination- to-day by Medical
Hefcree :forne and other physicians,
led to the discovery that the body of
M;s. Florence A. Small, which was
frund i:- the burned ruins of her home
in Ossipec -iti Friday. Had been covered
with rosin after she had been shot,
beaten and strangled.
Frederick I/. Small, the woman's
husband. Is in the Ossipoe jail charged
wMh murder. Me will be given a hear
isic < n October
LOYAL FARRAQUT DEAD
Wn* Horn in Norfolk, nntl i.ot Appoint
nient I'rotti President l.lncolo
>l.< t :%?lel to tVfmt Point.
\SIIFI!-.I?f?. .MA"?S. October I.?T.oyal
FnrraRtit. son of the late Admiral
David ?!lnsjrow Fartap.tit. died ;:t his
?nmmer home here ti>-da> of heart
failure, at the age of seventy-three
.??ea ? s.
Mr. Farms tit was born in Norfolk,
Va.. and was appointed to a eadetship
at West Point by President Lincoln.
After serving for a time in the army,
he accepted a position with tiie New
York Central llailroad. retiring in 1S!>tt.
lie was his father's biographer.
IN NO SENSE RETALIATORY
llerent Order l.imitinK Importation of
l.liiuora Merely AdmiaUtrii
live lletnll.
WASHINGTON. Octobers 1 .?-It was
explained at the State Department to
day thai a recent order by the De
partment of Agriculture, limiting im
portation of liquors, meroiy was an
administrative detail of the pure food
a*ct. and in no sense a retaliatory
measure. Secretary Lansinor said there
was no foundation for a published
story that tho department had decided |
to take some of the retaliatory trad*
j steps authorised at the laat session of.
Congress, ' - I
MARYLAND OFFICER:
TO BE TRIED HERE!
Major Henry S. Barrett Charged
With Utterances Prejudicial
to Military Service.
GENERAL COURT APPOINTED
Army and Militia Officers to i
Hear Charges at Camp
Stuart.
Major I lenry S. Barrett. of the Fourth?
lleglment, Maryland National Guard,
on October ~j will face a general court;
martial. designated' by tl>War be* j
partrnent to sit in Itichmond nt Oarnp !
Stuart. to answer for his alleged nt-'
tcrances prejudicial to the military j
service, lie was quoted on his recent j
return to tlie Maryland concentration!
earnp after service on the Mexican hor
der as being disgusted with the Nu.'
tionnl Guard.
News that Major Barrett would l>e ?
tr i?d here was greeted with surprise |
at Oamp Stuart, none of the officers j
tli, being aware of the matter until'
oui>;r? were received yesterday from
the Department of the East, directing
that the court be held and naming its
members. The court will consist of,
officers drawn from the. regular army!
and from the National Guard of several I
States. It will he composed of th*?j
I following members:
Brigadier-General W. E. Harvey, of j
the District of Columbia National j
Guard; l.!eutenant-Colonel 13. W. Salo-j
inotisfcy. of the Fourth Virginia Hegl-j
mens and commandant of Camp StuartJ
i l.'.entenant-Coloiiel J. Tl. Ijukash, r'orj^s]
r>f Engineers. I*. S. A.t Major Charles
W. Fen ton. Second Cavalry, I*. S. A.J |
Majqr 11. C. McMillen. Second Infantry,]
Woi Virginia: Major II. W. If ice. Sro
?*?'!?! Infantry, West Virginia; Major i
!?:. \V. i:ow1es. First \'irginia Cavalry;]
Major T. M. Worthain. First Virginia
Field Artillery; Major Clinton U '
Wright, adjutant-general First Vir-j
ginia Brigade: Major Ec.ster flidenour,;
Second Inf ntry. West Virginia; Major |
Allen Potts, quartermaster Virclnlal
National Guard; Major .1. C. Whitakcr,'
? iuh] tertnast er of the District of i'o
lu-mbia National Guard. and Captain
John A. Cutoliins. First Virginia Caval
ry. judge advocate.
! MAJOH WORTHA M I.EAVES
i on nonnK.lt, TO-DAV
It is expected that Major Wortham
j wUl be relieved as a member of the.
I court-martial detail, as his command
[departs to-day for the border.
| As the accused bears the commission
! of major, the tribunal will be com
posed of officers of or above the same
! rani;, the judge advocate not. being a
member.
| Major Barrett returned to Camp
Harrington, at l.aurel. Md? on Sep
tember S. and at that time is said to
i have expressed himself as trencrally
! disgusted ? ith the National Guard.
! This statement wan made in the ptes
i ence of newspaper men and others, all
! of whose testimony has been taken in
j Baltimore. This evidence resulted In'
j the detention of Major Barrett two j
days later, on the orders of Colonel j
j Harry C. Jones, commander of the j
Fourth Maryland Regiment. The ae- ,
leased officer is now at Camp llarring-'
j ton. but will come to Camp Stuart for (
I his trial.
I Major "Barrett is charged with mak
! ins tiIt?? ranees prejudicial to military
; service, in violation of article '*?- of the
: articles of war.
! Major Barrett was in charsc '?(}
' the Third Battalion of the Fourth
Maryland Infantry, and is one of the
[ best-known members of the Maryland j
'State militia. As soon as he returned:
from the border he was quoted as say- j
ing that he intended restruing. as soon <
as lie could make arrangements to do(
so. He said that he was thoroughly
disgusted with the National Guard ser
vice, and did not Intend to remain in it.
QUOTED AS SAYING IIK l.?
??rilSI.I STUB WITH SK. IIVI IK"
! The exact quotation of his inter-'
\ iew and inon which he was called to!
headquarters, follows: "Major Barrett.i
letl his battalion back to the camp :?t j
t.aurel. lie is anything but pleased j
with the service, and does not hesitate j
to say so.
"'I am thoroughly disgusted with tho
National Guard, and am through.' he
said emphntlcaJJy at the camp.
"When asked the reason for his
statement and his contemplated action.
Major Bat ret t said:
"?The organization lias been, and al
ways will be. purely and simply a
National Guard outfit. There Is a lack
of smoothness and cfliciency through
out the regiment, with but few exeep- ?
tions. We have a tine lot of able
bodied men. willing and capable men,
but the luck of knowledge of military |
efficiency is so marked among tho of- j
fleers as to defeat every project uri- I
dertaken.
??'ft seems absolutely impossible for
(he bulk of the officers of the National
Guard to familiarize themselves with
army regulations even in so far as the
smallest detail* arc concerned.
"'At the earliest possible moment,
and as soon as 1 can get my affairs
straightened up for settlement. I pro
pose lo quit the service.'"
Major Barrett later denied the state*
rnents. but after the War Department
took hold of the matter and secured
the necessary affidavits, it decided to
court-martial him.
Major Barrett has seen service in
the Maryland National Guard for many
years.
Dr. George B. WilMi Dead.
CHELSEA, MASS., October 1.?Dr.
George B. Wilson, commandant of the
naval hospital hero, died to-day after it
brief Illness. Ho was bom In Klttery,
Me., in 1868. Before coming here In
1912 ? he was surgeon of tho Aoiatlo
Fleftt..
Another Zeppelin
Falls in England j
Great Crouds Cheer Spcdaclc of
Burning Aircraft as It
Plunges to Ground.
I .ON DON. October "J.?Another Zep- (
pelin raid against London and th?j oust ?
'.oilst of Knglaiid Is in progress. An j
airship Is reported / to b;?v? been ,
brought down in dames north of l.on-j
ilon. according to the oflieinl statement |
i-.-med shortly after midnight. t
? ire.it crowds cheered the spectacle
of 111* burning Zeppelin as it fcii in
the London district. The yre.it llare '
from the burning aircraft was visible!
for a I0115 distance.
The statement reads:
"A number of hostile airships
crossed the cast coast between ?
o'clock and midnight. ,\ few boinbf ?
were dropped near the coast, but no i
damage is yet repot tefl. j
"The raid is ?t'.ll in progress, and.j
some airships ate in (ho vicinity of
London. where some ijunn have been j
in action. '
"An airship is reported brought '
down in dames north of London."
I'otir /.eppelln raids on London and ?
the east roast have been carried out)
| ',v. tae lust month, the more recent at- J
i tticks being made by airships of the. j
newer and bigger types. On September
J. one Zeppelin was struck while (lying i
over the London district and fell in !
1 names.
' Two Zeppelins were destroyed in the!
| taid of September 'J3. On that occasion-1
:ne raider.-* killed thirty-eight perrons
| r.r.ri wounded 1 'J5. The following
; night. in another" raid, in which the
I airships apparently escaped without
damage, they killed thlrt.v-six persons
jaiul wounded twenty-seven.
| In the raid of September only two
I persons suffered death, and thirteen
! were injured.
! LANE DENIES STATEMENT
1 Dlil >?t l'nke Iteinark Attributed ?<*
Ifloi b? Itooaerelt in llnttle
(,'rffW Spervh.
: ATLANTIC CITY, N. October I.?
jSecretary Lane to-night senl a tele
| grain to Theodore ltoosevelt denying
| a quotation attributed to him which
1 the former President made use of In
a campaign speech at Hat do Creek,
Mich. .
Mr. Hoosevclt pabl a statement had
been published sayinc. that Mr. Lane,
while explaining that in endeavoring
to effect a settlement of the Mexican
problem, the American commissioners
"will not resort to the note-sending
plan," said that "note-sending has not
been a success.''
In his telegram to Mr. Roosevolt*
Secretary Lane ?said he had been mis
quoted. lie explained that what he
had said was in reply to a question, af
I ter he had asserted thai if he had his
way the members of the Joint com
mission would sit around a table and
discuss the. Mexican situation Inform
ally, and not deal with each other by
an Interchange of note*. lie was ask
ed. he said: "Then yon regard note
sendtng as a failure.- and he said ho
replied: "Ry no means."
i BALLOTING IN NICARAGUA
I lirnrrNl Km 11 in no <'hiimnrro. 1'iindldMe
of t'onnervMtlveH. Probably
Will n* Klfelfil.
MANACtL'A. NICAUAiSl'A. October 1.
? llallotlng was begun to-day in tlio
presidential election, but with tne Lib
erals and I'rcgies^'ves abstaining from
voting. The indicrttipns are that CJen
icral Kmiliano Cluimorro, candidate ot
|tiie Conservatives, will be elected.
The newspapers to-day print an in
} lervlcw with General Chamorro In
[which he denies that lie signed the
j conditions reported to have been im-,
posed by Dr. Benjamin L. Jefferson*
'the l'nited States minister.
A dispatch from Managua on Sep
tember gave a report that Or. .lef
ferson had Intimated to the Conserva
tive and Liberal presidential candi
dates that the victor in the elections
must respect eyistlng treaties with the
l'nited States. American economic in
tervention !n the country, and the po
licing of Managua by American ma
rines
MOTHER AND SON DROWI^
I.one I.I Vex in (', A tl. C'niiMl hi I'oinf
of Hocka When Woman Ai
leuipf* to Nave Yon lb.
ISpeciaI to The Times-Dispatch. 1
KHKD'.'.rUCK. Ml).. October L?Mrs.
O"iirtro Keith, forty-live years old. and'
Thomas Keith, seventeen years old,
were, urowne i in the Chesapeake and'
< 'bio Cat.cl a; Point of Hocks, when
the mother plunged into tiie canal to
f:iv> 'In. life of her Son. *Th?- mother,
her two daughters ami P.uck Dean
were taking Kelt!) home when the ac
cident occurred. At the edge of the
canal, the youth was permitted to lie
on the ground. In the meantime, the
mother and Dean began gathering
wood to build a tire, leaving the two
girls on guard. It was during the ah-;
senc.e of the mother that Keith fell i
Into the canal. The mother at once I
plunged in.
CHURCH FLOOR COLLAPSES
About a.*?0 People I'nll Into < ellnr. All
of Them llrlng 'More or
l.**N Hurt.
DlNtl11AMTON, N. Y., October I.?
A section of the floor of the First
Presbyterian Church, of Johnson City,
foil In during dedication ceremonies at
3:30 P. M. to-day, carrying about '.'uO
peoplo to the cellar below, a drop of
eighteen feet. Almost all of those who
went down were more or less hurt.
It was feared, after the first exami
nation. that there would be some loss
of life, as ten of those hurt wero se
riously crushed.
RUSSIAN ADVANCE
ON LEMBERG AGAIN
GATHERS HEADWAY
Armies of Prinee Leopold
and Arehdukc Karl Are
Pushed Back.
OVER 4.000 PRISONERS
TAKEN. SAYS PETROGRAD
Two Main Actions Being Wa^ed
About Thirty Miles North
east of Galician Capital.
TKLTOXS I'lT OX DKIK.VSlVr,
New Stroke of Hiussiloff Made 'to
Forestall Contemplated Di-lre
b.v \ on IIin(Icnl)ui'^>.
British Advance
on Two-Mile Front
?<0\IK)\, Oeloher I. The left "
win* of the HrKi.h .irniy between
. the Ancrr nod Snmiur Itivern, In
!? rant e, linn n?l vnneeal on nearly ?
two-mile front from the eant or
tlnaco.iri l/Ahb.tje to the Albert
napaume roml, <'H|ilurln( ' In the
operation the town of Kancoort
l.'Ahltn.ve nml throwing their line
to within nhOMl four mile* or
Itapnume Itnelf. ..r
In addition, the Ilrltlali line to the
rant tin* heen neat forward for Rood
fcalnn into the firrmin front. Valu
able work wan done by the new
armored tractors In the fl*ht(ng.
In the ( hantpnKne region. *he;
Hermann. mmyn l?nrln. attempted two
nnrprlne attnoUn aeainnt the French,
hut both of them failed.
,S?r?^.?b,? l? Tho Ti,?cs-Di8patch.l
LONDON. October 1.?The t\vo
pronged advance of the Russians on
l.cinborg is again gathering full heat]
vay, and the Austro-Gcrman armies
"f Prince Leopold of Bavaria and
Archduke Karl have been pushed hack
?t northeast and southeast of tho
C.allcinn capital tho Russians have
registered advances. capturing-, accord
ing to the official report Issued frqin
Pelrograd. more than 4.000 prisoners.
Russian gains ar<? admitted .by Bdtlln..
The two main-actions arte &5iff*
waged in tho region of- the. Brodv
Krasne railwaj', about thirty miles
northeast of Lomberg, and In tho
IJrczezany sector, on tho Zlota Llpa
Itlver, fifty miles southeast of the city.
In tho former district the Russians
have pressed forward against heavy
resistance, taking about 2.000 prison,
eis. A Teuton position on the right
bank of tho Zlota Li pa was carried
on the southeastern sector of tho ad
vance.
This new stroko of General Brus
silofr is reported to have been made
to forestall the offensive contemplated
by Field Marshal von Hindcnburg. It
puts the Teutons upon a strict de
fensive in the eastern theater, follow
ing close upon tho heels of tontatiVy
attacks by them, which are believpd
to havo been tho first movements ..f
the contemplated "push."
Ri'SsiAst. Tnoocs Fonci.xr;
THKin 1VAV FORwVrttl
Tho Russian official says:
J "In tho neighborhood of tho Mrody
jKrasne railway, and to tho southward
[our troops, by heavy lighting. a:e forc
ing their way forward, the one.m
stubbornly resisting the advance. Wo
have captured here fifty-nine officers
and 1.1*28 men of the rank and file.
The fighting is turning to our f?
vor to the south of the Brezexanv. on
tho River Tseniuvka. and In the region
of the heights on the right bank of
tho Zlota LLpa. Hore we captured
part of tho enemy position by assault,
taking 114 officers and 2.26S of tho
rank and file, as well as some machine
guns. Bnemy counterattacks during
tho night were frustrated by our lire"
Berlin's report on the operations
follows:
"The Russians at various places havo
resumed their attack.
"On the front occupied by the troops
oi Prince Beopold of Bavaria. west of
Lutsk, the hostile fire has been Increas
ing since morning. On both sides of
the I'rudy-Lembcrg railway, and to th*
southward as far as Graborna. near
Markov, tlie Russians* attacks woro
Partially .becked by our curtain of
lire, while as many as seven repeated
charges were completely broken up.
???ti tho southern wing of this front
the Russians have obtained a footing
iti oni* first lino of dot'onsc.
"On t|?. front of Archduke Karl on
both sides Of .he Zlota Lipa. violent
hand-to-hand fighting has been in
progress. In the angle between the
< enlovka and the Zlota Lipa the Rus
sians have advanced. .Further to the
west the Turkish troops ejected bv
counterattacks the Russian detach
ments which had forced their way into
i.Kir lines. Two hundred and thirty
prisoners were, brought in.
""" tlu' Carpathian front tho sit
uation was generally calm. The num
I" ! of prisoners made at Klauzura
u ere more than fiOO men."
>l'll.I. Ft l('I'lll?lt GAIN'S
in Till: A l.t.IKI) FOnCFM
.<tlll further cjaiiis by the British and
Kr.'.ich troops north of the Somine
lllwr !n l-'ratfo aro ehronlclcd in
the latest official communications.
Tho Germans have been cleared out
of positions near the Stuff redoubt,
which they had held since the heavy
lighting of last week, and also have
been forced to slve up all except a
very small portion of tho Schwnbcn
redoubt in this region. In addition,
to the oast, between Le Sar* and Flora,
tho troops of General Sir Douglas Half
