WEATHER. 11 . GSfi\ 4 if ??Fr?m Pn^Wo HomT
Fair tonight and tomorrow: slowly W -w | B \ B B / ^ ^ T X B w M ||^J r TOm ? re 5 5 to nome
riling temperature; possibly light frost WjfW I B^^ gflliwM A .A '- n ^^ k/wlV A , A ^ UyO ?-????~~~
in northeast B B I Br^B ^^B ^B^^B B'WT'V^rw B f) An > ,?
to southeast winds. B A B B IV f V I 'IT I I I I I T ^B^C| I \ B^ 1/N| Within the Hour
Temperature for twenty-four hours BIB B Bf r _ B B B Br B B B B B B B B ft B B jM ??
ending 2 p.m.: Highest. p.m. ^BB I J B B B W W B B B B B B B B B B W / V B ft ' B ? ??nJW
yesterday; lowest, 37, at ? a.m. today. B B y B ^ B H , I . B l.ft M B ^ . B a
Full report on page |/^T
? I y I I y f / J Sworn Wet Clreolatloo, Month Of Aagaat.
v Mil, Dally Average, TMWi Sunday, 5S.T12.
Jso. 29,459. WASHINGTON, D. C., MONDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1916?TWENTY PAGES. ONEV CENT.
DRIVE BY RUSSIANS
AIMEDATLEMBERG
Substantial Gains Are Made
and Counter Attack by Austrians
Is Repulsed.
TEUTONS ARE^OFFERING
DESPERATE RESISTANCE
Galician Front Scene of Furious
Fighting, After Period of
?
Comparative Calm.
v
PETROGRAD, October 2, via
London, 1:55 p.m.?The Austrians
made heavy counter attacks
yesterday in an attempt to regain
the ground lost in the new Russian
drive on Lemberg. The war
office announced today that the
attacks were repulsed, and that
1.600 more prisoners were taken.
This fighting occurred on the
front southeast of Lemberg.
where heavy engagements are
still in progress.
Drive Began Saturday.
The Russian drive at Lemberg was
renewed Saturday. After a period.of
comparative inactivity, the Russians
inaugurated strong offensive movements
north and south of the Galician
capital. It is said Austro-German positions
were penetrated and that more
than 4,000 prisoners were taken. The
Teutonic forces are offering bitter resistance.
The struggle along the entire southwestern
front continues with undiminished
intensity, but without salient episodes
or changes in the general situation.
Germans Seek Initiative.
The Germans are piling up reserves
in the neighborhood of Vladimir-Volvnsky.
where they are trying desperately
to wrest the initiative from Gen.
Brussiloff's armies. But according to
the accounts of observers, despite the
considerable concentration of forces,
the Germans are no longer able to
spare enough me* to deliver the oldtime
smashing blows which, by sheer
numbers of shells and men, drove at all
costs through the opposing lines.
There has also been renewed activity
hear Haficz, which still appears to rest
securely in Austro-Germfen hands. The
town is. howeter, under the fire of Russian
guns. -Here, as farther north, the
Germans are struggling to launch a
?successful offensive, which thus far has
I always been defeated in its preliminary
Cages by a Russian counter attack.
Enrtiii Gains Admitted.
VlfjNNA, October 2, via London, 9:13
a.m.?Gains for.the Russians ip their
new drive toward Lemberg are admitted
in a statement issued by the war
offic^ supplementing the official announcement
of yesterday.
BERLIN, October 1, via London, October
2.?The Russians have assumed
the offensive once more, striking out
with, great force above and below Lemberg.
Southeast of the Galician caital
they gained a foothold in the AustroGervnan
position, the war office announced
today. An advance northeast
of the city was checked after the Russians
had charged the German lines
seven times.
U-BOAT ENTERS ARCTIC,
ATTACKS THREE VESSELS
CHRI8TIANIA. Norway. October I, via
London, 1:40 p.m.?A German submarine
haa made its way Into the Arctic
ocean and haa torpedoed three Norwegian
steamahlpa there.
The vessels torpedoed were the 8!nsen.
Ravn and Rolf Jarl. The crews were
saved. Steamship traffic over the regular
route covering the northern Norwegian
towns has been stopped.
Since August the Germans have sunk
Norwegian boats valued at $9,000,000.
The Slnsen's gross tonnage was 1,925,
and that of the Rolf Jarl 1,265. There
are listed three Norwegian steamships
' Ravn. all of them under 1,300 tons.
The purpose of the German submarine
Operations probably is to interfere with
the transportation of war materials to
Russia by way of the White sea porta.
LONDON, October 2.?The British
, pchooners William George, 151 tons,
and Pearl of Truro, 144 tons, and
! the Norwegian schooner Manuel of
i Tons berg have been sunk.
! SEVEN MEN DO BATTLE
OVER PRICE Ot WOMAN
CHICAGO, October 2.?Seven men
fought a revolver battle over the "sale"
I of a woman for $200 in a suburban
roadhouse early today. One man was
shot to death, and another was wounded,
probably fatally. Fifty or sixty
shots were fired.
The slain man was "Peggy" O'Day, a
saloon keeper. Daniel Hartman, one of
O'Day's companlpnd, was shot through
the lungs.
, According to the story told the police
by Samuel Harris, owner of the roadhouse.
Hartman had offered to "sell"
him a woman, and there had been a dispute
over the price. O'Day and Hartman.
with tWo associates, all heavily
armed, drove ur? to the roadhouse4in an
antomobile and attacked the proprietor
and two waiters, Harris said.
GUABD AGAINST CH0LEBA.
Steerage Passengers From Japan Be
ing Held for Examination.
SEATTLE. Wash.. October 2.?Ons
hundred and sixty-one steerage passengers.
including seventy-eight Russian
war refugees, who arrived last
night on the Japanese liner Yokohama
! Maru. are held today at the Diamond
point quarantine station, near Port
Townsend, for bacteriological examina.
tion for cholera. Twenty-eight first
cabin passengers were permitted tc
come to Seattle on the vessel.
The order requiring baceriologica]
examination of steerage passengers fox
Cholera germs was issued at Wash!
Ington recently because of the outbreak
of cholera at several Japanese
ports.
>
serb army gains
at en cost
Further Advance on Macedonian
Front Results in CapI..NA
A< I/A4AL...:A
LUI C VI VNUll/MUVlUa
BRITISH HOLD RECENTLY
WON GROUND ON STRUMA
Enormous Losses Suffered by Bulgarians
in Unsuccessful
Counter Attack.
PARIS, October 2, noon.?Fol
lowing up the advantage gained
over the Bulgarians at Kaimakcalan
height on the western end
of the Macedonian front, the Serbians
advanced one and one-quarter
miles north of the height and
occupied the village of Kotchovie.
the war office annonuced today.
The Bulgarians made a counter
attack on the positions newly won
by the British on the left bank
of the Struma. The statement
says the Bulgarians were repulsed,
leaving many dead on the
field. ' _
xtepuise Attack on stroma.
LONDON, October 2, 11:55 a.m.?"The
portions of the Bulgarian line on the
Struma front which we captured September
30 include the villages of Kara
Zakoibala and Kara Zakoizir," says today's
official report of operations on
the Macedonian front. Repeated enemy
counter attacks against these
places were entirely unsuccessful and
were beaten off with heavy loss. All
the ground won has now been consolidated.
There is no sign of the enemy
for some distance in front of our
trenches.
"In addition to the heavy casualties
inflicted on the enemy the number of
prisoners taken has been increased to
250. Our casualties were comparatively
small. Three machine guns were
captured."
Important Serbian Success.
Th% Serbians Saturday gained an important
success at Kaimakcalan, says
a Reuter dispatch from Saloniki. After
violent artillery preparation causing
frightful havoc in the ranks of the
Bulgarians, the Serbian infantry executed
a brilliant^attack, capturing all
the remaining points on this position.
The following official Serb;an statement
dated Sunday was received here today:
"The Serbian Drina division has taken
the important position of Kotchovie, one
and one-half miles northeast of Kaimakcalan
(on the western end of the Macedonian
front). The Bulgarian battery
which we took yesterday is one of field
guns, nbt mountain guns as previously
announced."
Admitted by Berlin*
BERLIN, October 2, by wireless to Sayville.?The
capture by the Serbians of
Kaimakcalan height, on"the western end
of the Macedonian front, for possession
of which heavy fighting between the
Serbiansv and the Bulgarians has been
in progress for some time, is announced
by the war office.
GREECE'S WAR DECISION
MAY HAVE BEEN MADE
Athens Believes Announcement Is
Withheld Until Details
Are Completed.
ATHENS, Sunday, October 1, via London,
October 2, 2:40 p.m.?The negotiations
between Greece and the entente
powers are believed in circles close to
King Constantine to- be nearing completion,
and It is even asserted in some
quarters that a military accord has already
secretly resulted, but Is being
kept secret pending the arrangement
of details, as in the case of Rumania.
The refusal of the entente to recognize
the Kalogeropoulos ministry has been
hampering negotiations and helping to
confuse the situation. The negotiations
of the entente representatives have so
far been direct with King Constantine
and are not technically official communications.
Rioting on Zante Reported.
Rioting is reported on the Greek island
of Zante between reservists and
followers of former Premier Venizelos.
! The former war minister ajid former
| chief of the general staff. Gen. Danglis,
icii aiiicuo n?'iO3 auuAi u an aiucu UCstroyer
to join M. Venizelos. Demonstrations
against ex-Premier Venizelos
are reported to have occurred at Nauplla,
which ended in rioting, the prefect
being forced to flee.
Third Member of Triumvirate.
The Official Gazette of the provisional
government publishes a decree
signed by M. Venizelos and Vice Adi
miral Coundouriotis, "By virtue of the
i power vested in them by popular de|
cree of September 26." naming Gen.
j Panyotis Danglis, the former minister
I of wai^ as the third member of the
I triumvirate heading the provisional
I government.
The island of Tenedos has joined in
the revolutionary movement.
King Constantine has appointed new
commanders to the battleships Kilkis,
formerly the United States battleship
, Idaho, and Averoff, owing to the Venizelisi
leanings of the present commanders
of these ships.
Furnished French Guard.
Forty-five policemen, cadets and sol1
diers who were desirous of joining the
: revolutionists at Saloniki went to the
French legation yesterday. Jean Gull
lemin, the French minister, supplied for
' them an armed escort from the marines
I guarding the French legation. With
this escort the men paraded through
the streets to embark.
Several Greek officers followed in an
: automobile, and set out with the men
for Saloniki.
STREET CAR SERVICE
STANDARD ADOPTED
Seven Square Feet for Standing
Passengers During
Rush Hours.
AT OTHER TIMES, 100 SEATS
FOR EIGHTY TRAVELERS
i
! Regulations Effective November 1.
More Drastic Measures Promised if
Railways Do Not Co-Operate.
The public utilities commission
today adopted a standard for
street railway service in the District
of Columbia.
After several months' consideration
of the subject, the commission
approved, practically
without change, the tentative
standard considered recently at a
public hearing. It will go into
effect November 1.
This standard was opposed by the
Washington Railway and Electric
Company on the ground that it was
theoretical and impracticable. The
Capital Traction Company urged that
it bevtried out as an experiment before
being finally adopted.
Requirements of Standard.
It requires for non-rush hours the
I provision on the average olh, 100 seats
per eigrhty passengers carried during
a period o? one hour; for rush hours
on the average of seven square feet of
available standing floor area per passenger
carried above the number for
which seats are furnished during a
period of one-half hour.
Non-rush traffic is defined as that existing
from 9:15 a.m. to 3:45 p.m.; ftom
6:30 p.m. to 10:45 p.m. on midweek
days, and from 9:15 a.m. to 12 noon
and from 6:30 to 10.45 p.m. on Saturdays.
,
Rush traffic is defined as that existing
from 6:30 a.m. to 9:15 a.m. on midweek
days and Saturdays and from
3:45 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. on midweek days.
Midweek days are defined as Monday
to Friday, inclusive, legal holidays excepted.
The railway companies, under the requirements
of the order adopted, will be
required to make such observations as
will keep them in touch with the demands
for service. The bureau of transit
and equipment inspection of the commission
also will maket such observations
from time to time'as may be advisable.
More Drastic Measures Possible.
In explaning reasons for adopting
a standard of service, the commission
states it feels there is necessity for a
measure of street railway service and
for a standard to be applied thereto.
"It is believed," states the order, "that
the general principles herein embodied
are sound and that-their application ^vlll
be successful when the co-operation of
the ^ectric railways exists. But, on account
of the complexity of the problem,
where such co-operation is lacking it may
be found necessary to revert to the less
flexible and more drastic forrrt of supervision
by prescribing headway.
"In determining what standards
should be applied the commission has
refrained from changing materially
the service which is Being furnished
on the average by the electric railways
in the District of Columbia. A close
relation naturally exists between the
service and the price ?to be paid therefor.
The valuations of the electric
railways "will be completed in the near
future, at which time the commission
will be in a position to determine what
is fair and adequate service and what
are fair and reasonable rates therefor.
"The purpose of the present proceedings
is to set forth a megms of meas-j
uring service, and, by that measure, td
standardize the service in the District
of Columbia. Observations showed that
the service being furnished in the Dis
trict of Columbia consists in general
in furnishing a seat per passenger
during non-rush traffic and in furnishing
seats and standing area during
rush traffic.
Results of Investigation.
"Studies made of many observations
showed that uncomfortable crowding
results if less than three square feet
of standing area per standing passenger
are furnished; that this does not
vary materially with the type of cars
in use in the District of Columbia; that,
on account of the great variety of
types of cars operated, it is not practicable
to express a rush-traffic standard
in a number of seats per hundred
passengers, but such standard can
best be expressed in a number of
square feet of standing area per standing
passenger; that a standard of
service should be based on service
furnished on the average over a period
of time, such as a half hour for rush
traffic and an hour for non-rush traffic;
that, due to variation in the demand
for service and irregularity of headway
between cars under service conditions
in the District of Columbia, it is
necessary to furnish 25 per cent more
seats than passengers on l|ie average
I during an hour of non-rush traffic and
| two-and-one-third times three square
feet of standing area per, standing
! passenger on the average durijig a half
j hour of rush traffic in order that the
j number of cars with standing passenj
gers during non-rush traffic and the
j number of cars carrying standing
j passengers furnished with less than
| three square feet of standing area will
j be reduced to a reasonably small numi
ber; that the resulting standards of
| 100 seats per eighty passengers during
non-rush traffic and seven square feet
n f ut a rvHInir a ma' nAr sf onHlnir na anon -
ger during rush traffic are now practically
complied with on the large majority
of lines in the District of Columbia
during most of the day."
Sugar Shipment* Held Up.
NEW ORLEANS, October 2.?Local
sugar refiners and shippers state that
shortage of freight cars In New Orleans
Is seriously interfering with
shipments of sugar to cities In northern
and southeastern territory.
Claim* to Own Champion Egg layer.
BALTIMORE, Md., October 2.?
Mitchell Lingo of Trinity, near Federalsburg,
claims to have the champion
egg layer of the world in a twoyear-old
hen. The hen has laid in the
same spot in the barn all year, and
Lingo, backed by officials of the town,
states that she laid 366 eggs last year.
The hen,4a a Rhode Island Red.
V ~
. k 4
t
% . \
DEBATE ON INCOME TAX
BY INVESTMENT BANKERS
Questions Affecting Interests to
Come Before National Convention
at Cincinnati.
CINCINNATI, Ohio, October 2.?The
fifth annual convention of the Investment
Bankers' Association of America,
attracting about 500 bankers from all
parts of the country, began regular
sessions here today.
President Lewis B. Franklin of New
York presided and received reports
from Secretary Frederick R. Fenton of
Chicago and Treasurer J. Hendron
Smith of St. Louis. The finance committee's
report was read by George H.
Taylor of Chicago, chairman of the
committee.
After several other committee reports
Dudley Bartlett of Philadelphia delivered
an address. At the afternoon session
Allen G. Hoyt of New York, chairman
of the legislation committee, was
scheduled to report.
The convention afterward was to go
into a general discussion of "Should
corporations be prohibited by law from
agreeing to pay the interest on their
funded indebtedness without deduction
for federal or state income tax,
or taxes which the corporation may be
required or permitted to withdraw
therefrom?" and "Should the United
kjiaicr ovvi\ tu iaA 111c niuuillC uci IVCU
from bonds of American corporations
when held by non-resident aliens?"
After this discussion William L. Ross,
chairman of ttye taxation committee,
was to deliver his report.
"Federal regulation of railroad rates,
both intra and inter state, is sound in
principle and beneficial in practice,
but it cannot, however, be practical to
have our great transcontinental systems
subject to one master as a whole
and to forty-eight masters as their
several parts," said President Franklin,
in his annual address.
"The time is coming when the regulation
of our railroads will be taken
entirely out of the hands of the several
state legislatures and placed
where it belongs?in the hands of the
interstate commerce commission. Some
of our legal friends say that this cafinot
be done; that the sovereign power
of the states granted them by the Constitution
cannot ?>e taken away.
"Sovereign power was not given to
each state without exception, but certain
important functions were reserved
solely for the federal government,
including the control of commerce
between the several states and
the establishment of post roads."
ONCE A POOR CHEMIST.
Herman Frasch, Protege of Oil King,
Leaves Fortune of $10,485,828.
NEW YORK. October 2.?How a poor
student of chemistry who came here
from Germany in 1868 attracted the attention
of John D. Rockefeller, became
the chief chemist of the Standard Oil
Company, and by his ingenuity amassed
a fortune of $10,485,828 is disclosed by
an appraisal of the estate of the late
Herman Frasch ot tnis city. Arter attaining
success as a chemist Mr.
Frasch undertook to develop a sulphur
mine in Louisiana which had passed
through the hands of four companies
that were unable to make it pay. The
sulphur lay 800 feet below the surface.
Mr. Frasch devised a method of conveying
superheated water into the
mine, melting the sulphur, and /hen
pumping It out through a pipe.
The appraisers estimated the value of
the stock of the company owning the
mine at $12,003 a share. Mr^ Frascl*
owned 505 shares.
GERARD TO BE WELCOMED.
Official Reception Planned When He
Arrives in New York.
NEW YORK, October 2.?James W.
Gerard, American ambassador to Ger.
many, will be given an official wel,
come In this city on his arrival here
, from Berlin, October 10, by a committee
including Oscar S. Straus, Robert
i Bacon, former Ambassador to Prance;
1 Dr. Nicholas Murray Butler, Norman
, Hapgood, Henry Morgenthau. former
ambassador to Turkey, and Henry L.
Stlmson.
: \
v.. . .
- ? """
FRENCH MAY DRIVE
NEXTATPERONNE
Present Minor Attacks Believed
in Preparation for
Some Big Move.
LONDON, October 2.?Recent operations
by the French along: the Somme
front appear to havjfe been mostly in
the nature of minor attacks, probably
preparatory to some largrer movement
in the Peronne region, while the British
main effort has been directed to
the thrust toward Bapaume along- the
road from Pozieres, where an advance
on a front of more than a mile and a
half was announced last night.
British Repulse Attack.
British troops last night repulsed a
German attack on their advanced positions
east of the village of Faupourt
L/Abbaye, the war office announced
today.
According to last nisrht's war nfflco an
nouncement British troops in the center
along the Somme line have made an
advance on a three-thousand-yard front
from east of Eaucourt L'Abbaye to the
Albert-Bapaume road. Eaucourt L'Abbaye
itself is reported to be ih the hands
of the British. The operations were
aided by the armored "tanks."
French Capture Trench.
PARIS, October 2. noon.?The war office
announced today that the French
captured a trench and prisoners on the
Somme front last night in a local operation
east of Bouchaveness.
The buildings of Eaucourt L'Abbaye
have been cleared of Germans.
In the Thiepval region the Bi^tish advanced
last night north of Courcelette.
but were forced by a German counter attack
to give up part of a trench they had
captured.
Repulsed, Berlin Reports.
BERLIN, October 1, via London, October
2.?The British and French renewed
their attacks on the Somme front yesterday
and desperate hand-to-hand fighting
resulted. The official report of today says
the assaults were repulsed.
Gen. Funston Completes Inspection.
CORPUS CHRISTI, Tex.. Octpber 2.?
Maj. den. Frederick Funston and Brig.
Gen. James Parker, commanding the
Brownsville district, are her. todav tn
inspect the camps of the 2d and 3d
Texas Infantry. Gen. Funston will return
to his headquarters at San Antonio
from here, having- completed a
tour of inspection of all the troops on
border duty in the lower Rio Grande
valley. He indicated that he was well
satisfied with conditions and -that the
men are in excellent health.
Mother and Son Downed in Canal.
FREDERICK, Md., October 2.?Mother
and son, Mrs. George Keith and Thomas
Keith of near Point of Rocks, were
drowned yesterday in the Chesapeake
and Ohio can^l at Point of Rocks, when
the mother plunged into the canal to
save the life of her son. fell into
twelve feet of water. Two younger
sisters of the boy, Sallie Keith and
Ethel, stood on the side of the canal,
but were unable to oner assistance to
their mother and brother.
Bring* Down Fifth Balloon.
PARIS. October 2, noon.?The text of
the French official communication aa to
aviation activitlea given out thla after,
noon reade aa followa: "Adjutant Bloeh
haa brought down a German captive
balloon at a point to the eaat of Bapaume.
Thla la the fifth balloon brought
down up to the preaent time by thla
aviator."
I JBBW? %
' * ' "*
1
r * ? """" -
? /
?" """" *
\
CENSUS COTTON FIGURES
START SENSATIONAL RISE
January Contracts Sell for $4.60 a
Bale at New York Above Closing
Price of Last Week.
NEW YORK. October 2.?One of the
most sensational advances in the history
of the cotton market attended the
publication of the two government reports
here today. Since the beginning
of this season there have been many
periods of activity and excitement, but
none of them has approached today's
movement either with reference to the
extent of fluctuations or in volume
of trading.
The demand wall stimulated by the
condition flcures of B6.3. or the lowpat
on record, indicating a crop of only
11,637,000 bales.
Within a few minutes after these figures
were issued January contracts
sold at 17.03, or $4.60 a bale above the
closing price of last week.
The census report showing 4,062,991
bales ginned prior to September 25 established
a new high record, but the
trade had been looking for even larger
figures.
Rise of 92 Points at New Orleans.
NEW ORLEANS, October 2.?An advance
in cotton of 90 to 92 points, or
$4.50 a bale, over Saturday's close resulted
in the early trading on this
market today on an almost insatiable
demand, stimulated by the bullish
showing of the government's last condition
figures for the season and ginning
returns, which, while the heaviest
on record, yet were considerably under
general expectations. Futures made
new high levels for the season, and all
months reached the highest quotations ,
ever recorded in the contract market
at this time of year.
There was a rise of fifty points
around the opening after the ginning
returns of 4,062,991 bales were announced,
but the big buying followed
the condition figures of 56.3 per cent
of the normal, the lowest percentage
ever gjven the crop, on September 25.
After traders had digested this report
and the forecast of a total yield
of 11,637,000 bales, the ring was
swamped with buying orders and prices
shot upward rapidly. At 16.86 for the
March option ; leading bull interests
commenced taking profits heavily and
the advance'was checked. The market
at noon was twenty points, or $1 a
bale, off from the top.
VILLA VICTORY REPORTED.
Gen. Bell Hears Carranza Troops
Were Defeated in Battle.
SAN ANTONIO, Tex., October 2.?Villistas
were successful in their recent
fight with the de facto- government
troops at Cusihuiriachic, according to
reports brought to Gen. Bell at El Paso
by persons making their way from the
interior of Mexico.
Gen. Bell transmitted this information
to Southern Department headquar
ters today, adding that he considered
the persons divulging it to be reliable.
The message said that it appeared the
Villistas .were getting all the horses
and food they needed and were moving
in-the direction of Satevo.
Dutch duelling Rebellion.
THE HAGUE, via London, October 2.
The rebellion in the Dutch East Indies
is being quelled, according to official
dispatches received by the government.
The ret>els in the district near Mocaratebi
have surrendered. Three brigades
of infantry inflicted serious losses
on a rebel force near Semaboe on
September 26. *
? 4
Russia's Population, 182,182,000. '
PETROGRAD, October 1. via London,
October 2.?According to the statistics !
for the year 1915, which now are avail,
able, the population of Russia in- <
creased more than 53,000,000, or 42 per i
cent, since 18*7- It Increased more c
than 3,800,000. or more than 2 per cent, 1
since 1914. The total population 1a set i
down as 182.182,600. <
Gl P. HEARTENED
BY INDIANAFIGURES
Reports Now Indicate Election
of Both Republican Candidates
for U. S. Senate.
SITUATION IN WISCONSIN
RATED AS UNPROMISING
La Follette's Personal Campaign Injury
to Hughes?Ohio, Illinois
and Michigan Counted Safe.
BY N. O. MESSENGER.
CHICAGO, October 2.?Some
confidential reports cording to
Chicago which are available today
indicate improvement of conditions
in Indiana sufficient to warrant
the republicans in counting
confidently on carrying the state.
Moreover, there is now said to be
prospect that the republicans will
capture both United States senaorships
instead of one, as they had
counted on earlier - in the campaign.
"Watson is coming: across as well as
New," is the burden of the latest reports.
The bettered republican prosnPPtS
arp cnid tn hp rlus In a snlandlil
organization, effective party work, adherence
of business men to the republican
side and a tremendous awakening
to the importance of the^ issue
raised by the passage of the railway
wag? bill by Congress.
Wisconsin Not So Promising.
That is a bird's-eye view of a neighboring
state looking southward from
western political headquarters. A
squint to the northwestward is not
quite so pleasing to thfe republicans.
Wisconsin looks far from good to
them, owing to the activities of Senator
Follette in his own behalf exclusively,
and is ignoring of Hughes
and the national ticket.
The senator is looking after La Follette,
and from all accounts is making
a good job of it. It is said that the
way things are drifting it might be
possible for Wisconsin to split the result
so as to give the electoral vote to
Wilson, the senatorship to La Follette
and the governorship to the republicans.
That is a suggestion sufficient to
make one's head dizzy, but most anything
can happen in Wisconsin along
present lines, it is declared.
Ohio May Need Attention.
Turning the political gaze southeastward
for another bird's-eye view,
the republicans And that Ohio may
need attention latdr. The state is believed
to be sure for Hughes and * for
Herrick for the senatorship, but the
governorship has some entanglements
on account of the liquor issue.
There is a liquor issue in the gubernatorial
contest in Iowa, too, which
may threaten the republican candidate
for that office, but Iowa is expected to
give an old-time rousing republican
plurality on the electoral ticket.
Michigan is counted safely republican
on the presidential ticket, notwithstanding
the influence of Henry Ford
and the big Wilson vote in the automobile
factories. Col. Roosevelt is px
pected to offset Henry Ford in personal
influence and the republican farmers*
vote to counterbalance the labor vote.
Situation May Change.
These bird's-eye views of neighboring
territory show the situation Ave weeks
in advance of the election. The panorama
may change as the two parties
continue their drives for possession
and retention of the middle west, which
is to be the scene of the big battles.
President Wilson has yet to make his
personal campaign in this region, while
Hughes -and Roosevelt are to take'another
whirl through.
Illinois will be found in the republican
column, although they are not talking
jrbout such pluralities as they were
claiming six weeks ago?three hundred
thousand and upward. They are talking
a hundred and fifty now or less' and
figuring on holding all of their representatives
in the House and picking
up two or three.
PULP AND PAPER MILL BOUGHT
American Syndicate Pays $2,000,000
for Property in New Brunswick.
BANGOR, Me.,. October 2.?Nathaniel
M. Jones of this city announces that at
a conference of capitalists in New
York, from which he has just returned,
the sale of the largest pulp and paper
mill in . the Canadian maritime provinces
to a syndicate of Maine and
New York men was arranged. The
property, for which it is said $2,000,000
will be paid, includes mills at
the Reversing Falls, near St. John, N.
B., and large timber lands in New
Brunswick.
The syndicate includes Hugh Chisholm
of Portland, president of the Oxford
Paper Company, and Maynard S. Bird,
also of Portland.
ki<y Order ff\T PrflUPlllTliy
*" ? ?I 9
PITTSBURGH, Pa., October 2.?A firm
in East Pittsburgh has received orders
totaling more than $2,700,000 to equip
with propelling machinery forty-four .
merchant ships now under construction <
on both the Atlantic and Pacific coasts.
It became .known here today. Contracts
to equip1 sixteen other ships are under
consideration. Officials of the firm de- <
clare that the orders received are for i
merchant vessels only and do not include
those received for propelling ma- 1
chinery for the United _ States Navy or (
foreign governments. j
<
Telegraph Order Costs $6,00(5. 1
NEW YORK, October 2.?An example j
:>f the pressure put upon the telegraph
companies by the recent activity f
in the New Yo?k stock market is the J
sending of 12,000 telegrams by a mem- J
>er of the curb exchange in the form of y
light letters io all parts of the United 5
States. The telegrams, filed with the c
:wo big telegraph compaiies Satur- e
lay night, are said to constitute the a
largest single telegraph order ever r
sent out from this olty. The cost is
sstimated at $ .000. t
\
TROOPS ENTRAINING
FDR BORDER DUTY
Militia at Camp Ordway Making
Ready to Start for ^
Mexican Line.
ARTILLERY AND CAVALRY
GO TO DIFFERENT POINTS
Train of Seventeen Cars to Carry
Outfit?Care Taken to Preserve
Health of Hen.
Troop A of Cavalry, Battery \.
Field Artillery?mounted organizations
of the National Guard of
the District of Columbia?with a
detail from the sanitary detachment
to look after their health
en route, are entraining this afternoon
at Rosslyn, Va., for service
on the Mexican border after*having
been in moblization camp at
Fort Myer for four months.
After having been paid off at 1 o'clock,
today these District soldiers marched
from Camp Ordway to the railroad
yard, carrying only their rifles and
pistols. They were accompanied by
the 3d Regiment Band to" give them a
! send-off, and as many men from the
other guard outfits as could obtain
leave are in the yards to cheer them
on their way.
There was some anxiety in camp
early today when the report was spread
that owing to a shortage of cars it
might be possible that the troops could
not be moved today. TJrfs proved
false, as the freight and burgage cars
were on the tracks at Rosslyn by 7 "
o'clock this morning and the passenger
cars were backed in shortly after .
noon.
Train of Seventeen Cart.
The mounted organizations are going
on seventeen cars, making up one
train via Chattanooga and Memphis.
At Memphis the train will be split and
Battery A will be sent to its destination
at El Paso, by way of Santa Rosa,
Tex., while the cavalry will proceed to
San Antonio by way of Wister, Ark.
Troop A is entraining with three officers
and seventy-four enlisted men.
Six members of this troop are on sick
furlough. The troop has no horses, as
it has been using the mounts of the
regulars at Fort Myer, and is to have
the questionable pleasure of breaking
in greets horses when it reaches Camp
Breckinridge.
Battery A is taking its full efilitftent?138
men with five officers and
twenty-six horses. This outfit is proud
of the fine physical condition of its
men. But one officer and two members
of the battery have been incapacitated
in the hospital at Fort Myer. Lieut.
Noyes was injured while marching in the
funeral of Gen. Mills. One enlisted
man has been suffering from a foot ball *
injury and another was hurt in a
mounted drill, but both of these are
going today with the battery.
Twelve Cars Used.
These mounted organizations have ?
packed their equipment on six flat
cars, two stock cars, two box cars, two
baggage cars and the men are entraining
in three coaches for the battery
and two for the cavalry troop.
Capt. Louis C. Vogt of Battery A will
be quartermaster. Capt. James H.
Washburn of the cavalry will assume
charge as quartermaster of his train
after leaving the battery at Memphis.
Capt. Herbert J. Bryson of the hospital
detachment will be in charge of
attending to the health of the soldiers
en route, and his detail is Sergt. James
Fitzpatrick and Private .of the First
Class James Curtin.
Camp a Busy Scene.
The camp of the mounted organlntions,
was a busy scene all yesterday
and tod^y, as relatives and friends of
the men visited tnem in large numbers
to say good-bye. These twd outfits
entertained more visitors yesterday
than on any day during the four
months they have been at Camp Ordway.
In spite of all these visitors,
however, most of the packing was
finished last night, except taking down
the canvas. Early this morning visitors
beg^n arriving, but they quickly
found themselves in a dismantled
camp, and were advised by members of
the organization to defer their goodbyes
until the troops were entraining
this afternoon.
Troop A had its canvas all down and
packed by 10 o'clock, and with three
wagons at work all of the impedimenta
were on board the train by noon.
Capt. Washburn, Second Lieut. Moore
and Top Sergt. Ray were at Rosslyn
superintending the packing of the cars
and checking off the troop's property.
First Lieut. Rhees was in charge of
policing the camp. The troop has provided
for a canteerf on the train to be
opened one hour each day. This is in
charge of First-class Private Johnson.
Ten-day rations for the trip have
been drawn by Troop A. and the larder
has been provided with plenty of
frankfurters, boiled ham and eggs, and
such other foods as do not require
much cooking and yet provide a well
balanced diet. The troop's own cooks,
Anderson and Allen, will have charge
allowance of 21 cents per man a day is
given in addition to the regular rations,
and both of the ffiounted organizations
propose to make their own
coffee on the train and use the balance
of the allowance for their company
fund.
All the men of Troop A are enthusiastic,
and half a dozen visitors at the
camp yesterday wanted to enlist.
Battery A All Packed.
Most of the work of packing was
ione by the men of Battery A. They
trusted to having a fine day today to
pack their canvas, and were at the job
;arly this morning. Canvas wae all
packed by 9:30 o'clock, and there was
considerable competition between the
>attery and Troop A as to which would
?et its property loaded on the train
lrst. \
The battery is taking the framework
or the kitchen, officers' mess hall, etc.,
lions, oeeauoc w uuu ">k" aiiu
iard to get on the border, and these
rames were built so as to be easily
tnocked down and reassembled again,
lechanic Ball was complimented by the
fficers today for his foresight in the
rection of the mess ball on this plan
rnd for the speed with which he got it
eady for shipment to the border.
Each man in the battery is allowed
o carry all the personal equipment
