'FINANCIAL EDITION
NIGHT
EXTRA
liamtmu
SMiger
NIGHT
EXTRA
vol. m.-xo. 1G
PIIHiADELl'IHA, MONDAY, OCTOJUSH U, 1910
Constant, 1010, t mi rcsiio Laoats Commht"
PRICE ONJS OBKT
SCHOOL ARMY MOBILIZED AFTER DELAY OF MONTH
S-T ' ' ' WW. !, pimp, www., -. ,,w ,, w nn-w .I...W nil ,miiiimmg'i
fBBassassasV B 'Iks JfW CvaLT flH0lStf?VMbMVlla vraWJ,k BKP'iBI tsmr9ssJm JsJBsfcssssssB B"aK'OP8Mi bH jtssasisassaaaaaaaaH
HVK sr, f tHBP ju bbbpjhHhmjh 35S HfiBBi.IIHEKi w. 3R 'HIllllH
i pyBv "lf- . BR BF iD SsN B
' '.)l'V , iS .KL . . Atrreement Scouted by
M . M 3KkmK0BP
. : , t fM TJiu i WORK OF
Bmb-' o-BBK., n ?
t. . :..,'"....'!: -,M.-r.i?.--;.iJiiiJi.-.&a
QUICK NEWS
BOSTON, 1st G.. 000000 0 0 00 2 0
PHILLIES 010010 0 Ox- 2 7 2
llnsntl nnd Goy; Alwtnmtcrr nml KUlcfoi'. Hmsllc nud 0'JJay.
BOSTON, 2d G.
PHILLIES....
10 0
0 1
' . 'i
Z,v'J .41.
ReullMch nut! (rftwriy; Dcmtiec nnd Killorci'. JJiiHHto iiiid O'Urty.
" . I v
. : '-
ATHLETICS.
BOSTON'. ...
0 0 0 0
2 0 10
ALLIED ARMIES
PUSH FORWARD
ON THE SOMME
All of Faucourt L'Abbaye
' Now in Hands of Brit
ish Troops
1914 TRANSIT PACT
HOLDS IN SPITE OF
EXTENSION PLANS
Agreement Scouted
Mayor, Provides for
Added Lines
RUSSIANS
OFFENSIVE
CLIQUE SEEN
BERLIN, Oct. 2. Rumanian troops
hare invaded Bulgaria for the first time
since Rumania entered the, war. An
official statement from the War Office
this afternoon announced that the. Ru
manians succeeded In crossfnff'thc Dan
ube south of Bucharest, gaining a foot
hold on Bulgarian soil.
Battles of the first magnitude are
raging in four theaters of war.
On the Sommo front, in Franco, both
the ' French and British have scored
fresh gains. The British now hold all
of the village of Faucourt-l'Abbayo,
about which there has been severe
. fighting for nearly a week. Powerful
German counter-attacks were repulsed
with heavy losses. Farther south the
Frcnclvhnvo gained ground near Bou
cheveanes, where mnny Germans wero
captured.
In Gnlicla the Russians are pressing
home fresh assaults in the renewal of
their drivo toward Lembcrg. Moro
than 4200 prisoners have been captured
in Galicia by tho Russians.
. Both the British and Serbians have
scored successes over tho Bulgarians in
Macedonia, where fighting is in prog
ress at many points. The British cap
tureditwo villages and the Serbians one
Village from the Bulgarians.
In tho Transylvania theater of war
tho army group of General von Falken
hayn, former German Chief of Staff,
is at grips with the main army group
of the Rumanians. The Rumanians
have been compelled to yield some
ground, but dispatches indicate that,
with tho arrival of reinforcements, tho
Rumanians aro offering battlo to tho
German allies on a strategic field that
was chosen for the action.
. . i4ir .J
UV. wm,i .i. ixt, m -VM"-' ".t- - n teOsefTHoto1 I-U61.
Philadelphia's school system began its fall operations today witn uuu.uuu
children to provide for. Tho upper picture shows the throng gathered
at tho door of the McCnll School, Seventh and Dc Lanccy streets. Below
is a scene characteristic of school interiors today. i
300,000 CHILDREN 60
BACK TO BOOKS AFTER
LONGEST VACATION
Pupils of Public, Private and
Parochial Schools Resume
Studies Month Later '
Than Usual
SESSIONS TO BE LONGER
Seven New Schools Open
Doors to Students
John L. Kinsey, Sixty-fifth avenue
and Limekiln pike.
Franklin, Crescentville.
Stowo Aimex, Seventieth street
nnd Woodland avenue.
John Hay Annex, Seventh and
Wharton streets.
Sharswood Annex, Second and
Wolf streets. ,
William C. Jacobs Annex,
Bustleton. . . ..
' West Philadelphia Boys? .Catholic
High School, Fifty-fifth street and
Cedar avenue.
DAUGHTER OF BREWER
AND YOUNG MOTORIST
VANISH FROM AVALON
Jean Bergner and Harry F.
Michell, of Philadelphia Seed
Concern, Leave Jersey Re
sortTraced Here
GIRL SOUGHT BY FATHER
n...i jtiJ Sohr.nj; Same and Ctuly.
TODAY'S RACING RESULTS
Tirst Laurel race, maiden 2-ytnr-olds, 5 1-2 furlongs Counsel,
114, Schuttinfccr, S1.40, ?3.30, ?2.80, won; Fencer, 114, Forehand.
O.IO. $1.10, second; Lynctte, 111, Cislunon, !?4.30, third. Time, 1.00.
Second Liunel met, sellinu, 3-ytni-clds pud up, 1 1-10 miles
Soldier, 100, W. Doyle, ?12.10, ?.").00, i?l.SO, won; Benjamin, 100,
Ityinc, $8.0O, !?5.00, second; Queen of Fnmillse, 103, II. Schilling,
3.00, third. Time, 1.17 -l-S.
AMERICANS CAPTURED DY MEXICANS
EL FASO. Oct.,, 2. Imports reaching l-o today fioin NoguUx,
AWj., c'.atcti It.".; 1 . tnty-ssj American soldiers ai;il truck dnveia
;uc held nrSsouora at the Mexican jail lu Nognlcs, SJcr.orn, jirat acW&i
lliu liordei, following aovvml itots butwcu Aincrlcnns nml Moxicuu.
ALEX PITCHES
THE PHILS TO
2-0 VICTORY
Moranmen Go Into First
Place When the Great
Shuts Out Braves
SQUEEZE PLAY WORKS
Grovcr Breaks All Records, Win
ning Sixteenth Shut-Out -IIrb
Won Thirty-three Games
Ahead Once More
0 a
0 0
1 it
0 z
1108TON
All. R. Hi O
8nodcmi, rt 4 o 1 4
MarnfiTlllr, ......... 13
Wlllinll. rf 4
Knnrtrhr. lb..,, 4
Hmltli, 3b S
Clmpprllf, If, 3
Keun, 3b ,. 2
Fltipatrlck, Sli..., O
Oonilj-, c. , . . ,..,. a
lllarklmrn, o., 0
llaenn, p 2
Alln, p, o
Connolly l
tCollIni ...k,
Maffeo ...... .... ... . 1
A,H.
1
3
O
O
S
e
8
O
1
o e
s 6
o e
n e
o '
o
o 3 i is ,
Totals i ............ . 30
rillLUKS
, An. n.ii. o. a.
rankort. rf . ,,M ...... 4 o 1 0
llyrno, 3b 1 o 1 0 S
Slock. 4 0 1X8
WhltUil. If 4 1X30
Cravatli, rf o 0 0 0
l.uilrim, lb 3 O X 13 , 1
Nlrlioir. 2b , . 3 0 X 4 8
Kljlefrr, a S X I I o
Alexander, p - o 0 0 4
X,
H
U
I
e
FIRST BATTALION N. J. FIELD ARTILLERY ORDERED HOME
WASHINGTON, Oct. 2. Tho First Battalion, New Jersey Field Artillery, with
tho exception of llattery C, has been ordered homo from tho border by Major General
Funston.
ALL OF FLAC0URT L'ABBAYE
NOW IN BRITISH HANDS;
FRENCH EXTEND GROUND
LONDON. Oct 3
All of th village of Faucourt IVAbfcaye,
about which there h been savage Hunting
on tho Somme front for aeveral days, ,1a
now In the hands of the British. There
was hand-to-hand fighting In the streets
and in the battle-btasted houses befpro the
remnants of the German garrison were
dfThe official report of the War Office today
announced the complete capture of Fau
eoutt VAbbaye. It admitted that tho Per-
Centlnof on rate Bit, Column Two
THE WEATHER
FORECAST
For Philadelphia and vicinity Fair
ninht ' and- Tuetdau; somewhat
warmer Tuesday; gentle easterly winds,
IXNOTII OV WAV
Baa rlui..i.. B :ST a.ra.lHoon rl... )ftP'mi
IS iJtl..-. e;P.m.Mon .ouths. 4U!flp.ra.
OHLAWAKK KlViai TIOK CHANOE
CHESTNUT STREET
tow wattr.. 12.02 .m.Ixiw wur..I3e p.m.
W& water 4:4s a.m.lUUb vratr.. B?! p.m.
TKMl'KKATUBK AT KACHIIOCK
Th feet that cretplng- slow to school
Went atorrolns out to Plav,n',A.'vvhlttler.
Three hundred thousand little rhlladel
phlans laid aside their baseball bats and
hoops Way to take up pencils and books
after the longest vacation they ever en
Joyed. With Infantile paralysis . atlll prevalent
n this and other cities, all classrooms were
thrown open at 9 o'clock this morning In
the publlo and parochial schools aftef a
month's delay because of the epidemic. No
report of the attendance In the public
schools has been received yet at the head
quarters of the Board of Education, but
rollcalls Indicated that many of the parents,
still fearful of the plague, were keeping
their children at home.
The city's educational machinery, how
ever, was set In motion without friction or
disorder. Books were furnished to every
pupil i It) all schools except where part,
time classes have been necessitated by over
'crowding there was a seat for eery child,,
and an army of 6600 men and womeir teach
ers was prepared for the opening of the
new school year. -
Kven the slight confusion that usually
attends the beginning of the term was
avoided and the usual complaints from P,r.J
ents aDQUl miaiaaca in , Krsuing, it vt
textbooks and other difficulties were no
ticeably laoklng.
Sessions will bfi .held this afternoon. Jn
former years In the first week of the school
year a single session was held each day;
but this year, because of the lime ost when
the schools wore closed on account of the
epidemic- two sessions will Ve Inaugurate
Immediately.
About 16.Q00 pupils will attend part-time
Oustavus W. Bergner, head of the Born
ner & Kngel Beswlng Company, and Do
tectlve Chnpman Marks are scouring the
city to ascertain tho whereabouts of Miss
Jean Bergner. daughter of tho wealthy
brewer. Miss Bergner, who Iq nbout
eighteen years old, left her father's home
at Avalon. N. J., late yesterday, in an auto
mobile owned and driven by Harry P.
Michell, who was a week-end visitor nt the
seashore cl(y.
Mr. Bergner, after detectives had gono
over the route taken by the couple, l now
convinced that his daughter eloped with
Michell and that they are now married
In the hope that they have not had thjs wed
ding ceremony performed, however, he has
set detectives on a search for them In New
York, with Instructions to "head them off."
Mr. Michell Is but three or four years
older than Miss Bergner, and the two are
said to have been frequent companions, al
though the young nan was not regarded' as
a suitor by the Bergner family.
The murrltfee license bureau In this city,
every clergyman In Klkton, Md., as well as
other possible rendezvous for elopers have
beeft questioned without tidings of the miss
ing young people.
Detective Marks, accompanied by James
Oallagher, of Fifty-sixth street and Glrard
avenue, a life-long friend of Mr. Bergner,
this afternoon located the automobile In
which the young people left Avalon. The
machine was found In the garage of the
Autocar Service Company, at Twenty-third
The co-operative agreement of May, 19U,
between tho Philadelphia ltapld Transit
Company and representatives of the city is
not abrogated by tho 'inclusion, sJnco it was
formally, accepted, of a high-Booed lino to
Iloxborough, On the contrary, thouch npt
named, sptciilcnlly, that. Unfl-nrid.otheriof.r
V tiioHsam5Eof t were Toresce'it hy- former
Director Taylor and Included tin the plan
which he submitted to the signatory parties
and was accepted by them.
Mayor Smith was quoted today as say.
Ing that, In his opinion, tho Taylor-Stotes-bury-Mltten
pact docs not amount to any.
thing at this time, because "wo havo decided
to build more lines."
Tho co-operative ngreement to which the
Mayor refers contains a caption, "Future
High-Speed Lines." Under this. In the
plainest language possible, the agreement
empowers tho "rlty to linre the rlelit to re.
quire company to rqulp and nprrute on the
abote linnU additional rapid trunult linn
or extrmlons which the city may from
time to time build."
QOVKttS ALT INTENSION
This section, In tho opinion of persons
familiar with contracts and similar agree
ments, covcrB fully the noxboroush exten
sion, or any other line, whether new or
In part operated, which the demands of
traffic may compel. Changes In detail of
the original comprehensive plan for ad
ditional lines, under (he paragraph quoted,
are foreseen and provided for. The signers
of tho agreement, on the part of tho vari
ous parties at Interest, Including the city,
accepted them.
City Solicitor Connelly, at that time a
member of Councils', both as chairman of
the Finance Committee and of tho commit
tee specially appointed to consider the
"Taylor plan," represented the city during
RULGARS REPORT CAPTURE OF FRENCH FLYER
UUIU.IN, Oct. 2. Tim capturo of n French ncroplano after a raid on Sofia Is
described In n Bulgarian ofticlnl statement received hero today. ,It says: "A
French biplane on Soptctnher SO flow over Sofia and was Immediately nttackod by
our fortress defense. The hostile aeroplane could drop only one bomb, which fell
tAoiiptjtspfY tho. twpmrilers'bwuEUtdawnh
uccuMHH3 ii rencn pilot iuia a ocru(n ' uuaurver were1 uiiuui 4iuu ,,vt:iu- iusvv
prisoners. (A Puilo official report of September 30 tella of an'utlack on Sofia by n
French nlrfnnn dnil his safe landing In Bucharest, cnpltnt of ItumanU.)
EXILED FRENCH PRISONERS BACK IN GERMANY
IinHI.IN, Oct. -. Ten thousand French wur prisoners, some time ago sent
Into Ilusslan ton!toiy occupied by Germany, have been returned to German prison
camps, tho Overseas News Agency nnnhunccd today. It is expected that tho French
prisoners wero Rent to Hussla as n "measure of reprisal," tho French authorities
having previously sent German prisoners to Morocco, Algiers and Tunis. 'Now that
theso German prisoners havo been returned to France, "tho German measure has
fulfilled Its aim," It Is .semiofficially stated.
U-BOAT SINKS TWO NORSE SHIPS IN ARCTIC
CIiniSTIANIA, Norway, Oct. 2. A German submarlno has penetrated the
Arctic Ocean, where It has sunk two Norwegian ships.
STRIKE TIES UP ALBANY TROLLEY LINES
ALBANY, N. Y., Oct. 2. City trolleymon wont on strlko today, completely tying
up thn United Traction Company linea In Albany and Rensselaer. Moro than 1000
rrien are out of work as a result of tho walk-out.
FROST DESTROYS 5500,000 LANCASTER TOBACCO CROP
LANCASTER, Pa.. Oct. 2. Frost Saturday and Sunday nights virtually de
stroyed all tobacco In Lancaster County still uncut, estimated nt twenty per cent
of tho crop. The loss will ho fully halt a million dollars. Sunday many growers
cut their crop, but too latu to save It for unything but scrap.
Continued on Face llfteen. Column Three
GIRL HURT AS SHE
SLIDES FOR LIBERTY
Continued on rae Tow. CtehtMa Tjo
Continued on l'ace nfUtn.'Colomn Too
MAN KICKS MAN TO DEATH
SeventyYear-Oid Workman Fatally
Attacked by Fellow-Laborer
WKST CHESTER. Ta., Oct. 2 James
Brown, more than seventy years old, who
had been employed by a contractpr on a
threshing crew In Kast Bradford township,
near this place, is aeau ui mis .iibsici
County Hospital as the result of having
been kicked In the stomach late Saturday
afternoon by Robert M, Stern, a young man,
employed also on the road work.
Following the assault, Oacar Flowers,
-who witnessed the fray, badly beat Htwn
and later gave ball for a furtfeer ho ring
before Magistrate 8. M. Faxse. Itare. TV
Justice also held Stern In ball to awaK the
iMutt of the InJurlee to the eeswr mas. a4
I the police are now seeking Win.
Makes Rope of Sheets and Tries
to Escape From Detention
House '
A daring attempt to escape from the
House of Detention, at Twenty-second and
Arch streets, today, may cost Jennie Hallo
well her life. With the aid of bed sheets,
which she took from rooms In the Institution,
the girl made a rope. She tied one end of It
to the bed In her room and then slid toward
the ground from tho third floor. When
within about 20 fret of the ground tho Im
provised rope parted and the girl was
thrbwn head first to the sidewalk.
She was' found unconscious and bleeding
by tho watchman. He sent her to the
Women's Southern Homeopathic Hospital.
There It was found she had received serious
bodily Injuries.
The girl was arrested on Saturday In a
Market street department store and ac
cused of shoplifting. Despite a tearful
story she was sent to the Houee of Deten
tion. i.
At th.e time of her arrest she gave her
name as Ketber WI1H and said a
lived at WIMwocxL Met Anally admitted
that her name wj .JiUHoweU, She lived
for a time with a hum' family lit atysfli
Dennis, Cape r filiy. S. J. For Um
last few mPBtbe sate- had Hved with a
brother In this city.
RUSSIA'S POPULATION RISES 3,800,000 DURING WAR
PUTIIOGUAD, Oct. 2, According to the statistics for tho' year 191C, which now
aro available, the population of Russia Increased inoro than 03,000,000, or 42 per
cent, since 18!7, It Increased moro than .1,800,000, or mo'ro than 2 per cent, since
1914. Tho total population Is set down as 132,182,000,
U. S. ENVOY TAKES HAND IN NICARAGUA ELECTION
MANAGUA, Nicaragua, Oct. 2. Dr. Benjamin L, Jefferson, American minister
to Nicaragua, Is reported to havo given notlco that nny one who participated In tho
regime of President Zelaya or who has conspired against the present Government
will bo excluded from runnlpg for tho presidency In the presidential elections which
began today.
CUBAN PAPER WANTS TO BET $10,000 ON ALLIES
NEW YORK, Oct. 2. La Lucha, of Havana, a leading newspaper of Cuba,'
announces through Its correspondent hero that It Is willing to wager $10,000 that
tho Allies will win tho war. La Lucha will accept n wager from any part of
tho world, Its offer remaining open until October 7.
TACKS DAMAGE TIRES ON WALNUT LANE BRIDGE
Tacks sprinkled along' "Walnut lane bridge between Manayunk nnd German
town resulted Jn forty-soven complaints being lodged In two days at the Haines street
and Germantown avonuo police station by nutomoblllsts. Plain-clothes men ore
watching for the source of the tire damage.
25 PER CENT TAX INCREASE URGED BY GEORGE W. NORRIS
Total, jo S 77 18 j!
Ilnttnl for Keen in eighth.
tllatted for dowdy In eighth.
illattrd for Ilagan In eighth.
Doubles AVhlttrd, Ludcrus Ivlllefer,
Harrtnces, MnranTlllr, Crarath, Alexander,
Ilyrne, 3...Htolen bases l'askert. Htnek
out by Alexander, It Karon, 3.,, Base on
Imlls on llrcan, 1. Double plays, Maran
tllle, l'gan and Kenetchy. Umpires, Kmlle
and O'Day.
UP-TO-DATE STANDING
Club. Won. Lost. Pet
Phillies 90 C8 .606
Brooklyn 91 59 .607
Uo3ton 85 62 .578
By CHANDLER "D. RICHTER
arovetAlexander vdn Jits .thirty-third VI
. .r ' v - i t:
tpry of the .soason this afternoon, when he "Z
shut out tho Boston Braves In tho opening
game of the double-header. Incidentally,
the Phils wont Into first place, displacing
Brooklyn. Aloran's men are less than on
point nhead of their Flatbueh rivals.
The Phillies scored their first run In the
second Inning on doubles by Whlted and
Luderus. In the fifth they aded another
on Klllefcr's double, Alexander's sacrifice
and a perfect squeeze play engineered with
IClIlefer on third and Byrne nt the bat
Ragan did the pitching for the visitors.
Although both runs ore ofllclally credited as
earned, the last one would not have been
mado had It not been for bad Judgment on
the part of Snodgrass, who misjudged K1I-
lefer's flay and allowed the catcher to make
two bases on tho drive.
This shut-out Is the sixteenth for Ale:'
ander and breaks all records for no-ru,
victories In the major leagues. 1
FIRST INNING.
The crowd gave Alexander the Great'
wonderful ovation when he went to
mound. Snodgrass greeted Alexander w
a wicked single Into center. Paskert h
the hit to a single by making a brllllff
one-handed atop. llaranvlllo sacr!fl
Snodgrass to second. Luderus to Nleht
Nlehoff tossed out Wtlholt, Snodgrass ta
Ing third. After Alexander got In the he
ho pulled himself together and caused, Ko
etcliy to roll a weak bounder through th'
box. Alexander grabbed the ball and to&ae
him out, tho fans cheering wildly. No run'
one hit, no errors.
uagan Knocicea uawn i-nsKervs orr ,f
through the box and threw him 'out. .Wl f l
the count three ana two, uyrne sift,
line uma iuiu ion ier u. auisie. aimvur
muffed Stock's high fly, but reeoveref'fir
ume io save niinseu an error uv
to MaranUlle, forcing Byrne. Htv
to steal on tho second ball plU
Whitted. but despite the fact that
a large lead, dowdy's throw to-Ma
retired him, Ko runs, one hit, no erf.
SECOND INNINd
Smith rolled a slow grounder Qvef
ond, but Stock scooped the ball up ani
the runner nt first. Larry Chapp!!
two long fouls, but then roll a J
grounder to Alexander, who toeaed Wan1'
After getting Alexander In a hole, f
smashed a terrlno drive between WW
and Paskert It looked like a sure fo
und perhaps the ball might have boun
into the bleachers, but Whitted tea,
across the field and took the havtl at
shoe tops. It was a wonderful play t
tho crowd cheered wildly. No ruae, no h'
no errors,
Whitted was given a great haaal when
stepped to the plate and he rwpoadea1
smashing the ball against th bleach.
lor a oou-oie. vtsvsin wvnw pmiw.
An Increase of twenty-flve percent In the tax rate advocated by George t&LjKJ1 nVoteTsthVU ,
Norrls, former Director of Wharves, Pocks end Ferries, now chairman of the Federal
Farm Loan Board. A municipal tax into of J1.2G on the $1000, with the 60-cent school
tax, would bo sufficient with tho strict economy practiced during the BlanUenbnrg
administration, he said.
GASOLINE FROM GAS SHOWS BIG 1015 INCREASE
WASHINGTON, Oct. 2. Vast Increase In the production f raw wwellae, fro
natural gas. resulted from expansion of the casing head gasoline Industry during
the last calendar year. The geological eurvoy announced today that M,!,
gallon of raw .gasoline were extracted and sold during the year. That ycaa a ln
or1 H,712, gallons, ur 63 per cent, over 114.
GBRMANS TAKETHREE NEUTRALv VBSSILS AS PKIS
', JUCK-WK. Oct 2. An AaWy aiwweiaK ; Make, "Qafsaga M
TsMMay tttofet rfit M Ire Use wow im. jawweui
Lea, with contraband, and twe EhttU tugboat, the utkf 'M and
each with 'two lighters, all bound for England."
CkAw
ri
The count was two strikes and no V"-''
Luderus, when he met a ft MU U.l
and hit It Into right centeon tho
bound.
The drive WM goes) for a dooWe.
vnaaine lha nlai with the ftrat rttsv. '
vWe knocked dawn NUhoTs nfe J
abort, bat ta rolled a wrw a
fMMt Mm, and Luderua mlfet IsajV-!
fef fee had itaetwn lor tna puti, win
tsatd ktai t t- xaranvuie onw
XUtofwr's bounder ta deep start,
Satisle play twuKed. slarmi4M tt
UrXoaotehy. Killafer lltnpe
to flrat, or ha .would have
txuur ana louen ewi
Onerua. tsni Mtsv m
TfllKl) 1NNINO
lipr -i" fM twe
ftmiy, who tbon rslaoa a
UaatisutM) sa rasa tntlmm.
ERRSSE
"Mv Married Life " a Confession, a" New and Remarkable Feture,.Be.Jins in This Issue of the Evening Ledger, on Pi
a?
t
