ON A REPUBLICAN
AN INDEPENDENT PROGRESSIVE JOURNAL
TWENTY-SEVENTH YEAH
10 PAGES
PHOENIX, ARIZONA, MONDAY MORNING, OCTOBER 2, 1916
10 PAGES
VOL. XXVTI., NO. 136
BE 'AH TWO M
IT i T7
ARIZ
50HT
BESIDES CAPTURING If DMT
TIN MOVE TO IT1 FOUR
IEES OF HUE ITSELF
(By Republican Associated
Tk. I. ft umn nf the British armv
ers in France has advanced on nearly
Eaucourt L'Abbaye to the Albert Baoa ime.roaci capturing in the operation
the town of Eaucourt L'Abbay and throwing their lino to within about
four miles of Bapaume itself. -
In addition the British line to theeast has been sent forward for good f
gains into tho German front, according to London. Valuable work was
done by tne new armored tractors in the field.
Still further gains for British and French troops north of the Somme
river urg chronicled in the latest official communications.
Germans have been driven from Positions near the Stuff ' redoubt, and
nlso have been forced to give up all except a very small portion of the
Schwaben redoubt in this region. Between Le Sars and Flers the British
have pushed forward. Saturday night and Sunday German trenches near
Morval and Clery fell to the French. .
Berlin reports, however, that attacks by the British east of Thiepval
-nd by the French in the vicinity of Rancourt, Courcelette, Morval and
Halle were repulsed. ,
In Galicia the Russians have sta'ted another big offensive. The of
ficial recorts from Petrograd and Berlin are at variance as to results of
the fiq'atinq. Petrograd reports that thirty miles northeast of Lemberq
the Russians are forcing their way forward and have captured 1,987 of
ficer and men. Also south of Brzezany. fifty miles southeast of Lemberg,
rnd along the right bank of the Zlota Lipa, Austro-German positions are
reported to have been taken and 112 officers and 2,268 men made
pr.soners.
Berl:n asserts that Russian force alonq tl-o Brcdy-Lemberg railway
were stopped, but admits the Russians gained foothold in the south
and also advanced between Tseniuvka and Zlota Lipa river.
M the Carpathians in the Ludowa sector, the Austrians have turned
to the offensive, and according to Vienna, in an attack captured four
Russian officers and 532 men and eight machine guns.
The Rumanian theater is witnessing only local engagements. The
numfcer of prisoners taken by the army of General von Falkenhayn in the
Hrrmannstadt region exceeded 3,000.
In Macedonia the Serbians have at last captured the Kaimakcalan
heights on the Greek-Serbian border. The British on the Struma have
taken a portion of the Bulgarian line "ear the Orljak bridge. i
Another air raid by Zeppelins over eastern England has taken place.
One Zeorelin is reported to have be?n brought down in flames.
British Troops Advance
LONDON. Oct. 1. liiiiifli troops or.
the Somme have made an advance on !
a 3.11'iu-vard from east of Kaucourt j
l.'Al.t.r.ve to the A Ibert - Ranaume road,
according to the official statement to- !
nielu. j
Kaucourt L'Abh.iyo itself is reported I
l,, I... it. t ),.. i:i of the lint is h. Tic :
operations were aided hy the armored j
Links.
The British schooners William
Gt-..,e. l'.l Urns, and Pearl of Truro,
144 tons, and the Norwegian schooner
Manuel, of Tonsbcrg, have beer sunk.
Russians Assume Offensive
I'.F.itLIN, Oct. 1. (Via London.)
TIim If iii'.-in ni hnvp fiMsnmed the (if-
f-nsive once more, .striking with fcreat reported, wru tie held today. -f..-,.
,.i,.,vo .mil iieidw ij.mi.M- s..nth-! Hinting is reported on the
. :.'st ..f the Optician capital they gained j
a fiK.thoid in the Austro-German posi
tions. the war office announced today.
An advance northeast of the city was
checked after the Russians had charged
the German lines seven times.
The announcement follows:
"The Russians again resumed the of
f.'OMVe at various points.
"West of Lutsk the enemy's fire has
increased.
' M both sides of the Brody-Lemberg
railroad and :outli to Gral.erka, the
enemy advance has been arrested by
the complete collapse of assauits re
jieatcd seven times.
"In the southern wing the attacking
Russian forces gained a foothold in
our line of defense.
"On both sides of ttie Zlota Lipa there
w.is violent hand to hand fighting be
tween the Tzeniuvka and the Zlota
Lipa the enemy advanced. Further
w st Turkish troops ejected Russians
ti. iday hy an immediate counter at
tack ami this mo'ning penetrated posi
tions held by Russian detachments.
Two hundred and thirty prisoners were
brought in."
Russians Renew Drive
PKTRoGRAD, Oct. 1. (Via London.
Oet. 2.) The Russian drive at Lemberg
was renewed yesterday when they
made strong offensive movements
north ami south of the Galician capital.
According to today's report, material
success has been won. Austrn-Ger-man
Hisitions were penetrated and
more than 4,000 prisoners taken. The
announcement foilows:
"In tile m-ighborhood of the Brody-1a-
Krasner railway line and south
thereof.- fighting is taking place, our
troops forcing their way forward. The
enemy is offering stubborn resistance.
We captured here 59 officers and 1,328
men.
"Fighting Is proceeding In our favor
south of lirzezany on the river Tzen
iuvka. and on the right of the Zlota
Lipa. Here we captured part of the
enemy position by assault, taking dur
ing this operation 112 officers and 2,268
men. Knemy counter attacks were
frustrated.
"On the Caucasian front there were
no developments.''
Revolution Grows
ATHKNS. Oct. 1. (Via London.)
The Official Gazette of the provisional
j:ovemment puolishes a decree signed
by Al. Venizelos and Vice Admiral
CoutidouriolR "hy the virtue of the
IM.wer vested in them by the popular
decree of September 2fi." naming Gen
eral I'anyotis Danglis, the former min-
Plumbers Convicted of
Violating Anti-Trust Law
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
SALT LAKE CITY. Oct. 1. The jury
in the case brought in the federal dis
trict court here against twelve master
t. lumbers of Utah and Colorado charged
with violation of tho Sherman anti
trust act, returned a verdict of guilty
with a recommendation of extreme
mercy last night. Sentence will be
pronounced October 14.
The defendants were charged with
having engaged In a conspiracy to pre
vent pl'imbers not members of the
National Association of Alaster Plumb
ers from getting supplies. The case
had been on trial several days. The
Press Leased Wire)
between the Ancre and Somme riv
a two mile front from the east of
ister of war as the third member of the
triumvirate heading the provisional
government.
The inland of Tenedos has joined in
the revolutionary movement.
Forty-five policemen, cadets and sol-
diers who were desirous of joining the
revolutionists at Saloniki went to the
rjeuin legation yesieruay. jean liUll
I01"'11, the French minister, supplied for
I them an armed escort from the marines
guarding the French legation.
Expect War Decision
ATHENS, Saturday, Sept. 30. (Via
London, Oct. 1.) It is expected that the
proposed session of the crown council,
at which a decision regarding the en
trance or Greece into the war may be
Greek
llar.d of Zante between reservists and
fullowers of former Premier Venizelos.
Decision Coming Today?
ATHENS, Friday, Sept. 29. (Via
London, Oct. 1. Delayed by censor.)
Those close to the king are confident
he will telegraph his decision concern
ing war to King George, Emepror
Nicholas and President Poincaire
Monday.
Once the king's decision has been
reached, it is expected a national cab
inet H ill be formed, in consultation with
the Rritish minister. M. Venizelos will
have a portfolio if he desires. It is
predicted that M. Kalogeropoulos will
remain premier and minister of finance
witli Al. Stratos as war minister; M.
Carapanos, the present foreign min
ister, or M. Coromilasa, Greek minister
at Rome, as head of the department of
foreign affairs, and with three sup
porters of M. Venizelos in the cabinet.
General Aloschopoulos, chief of the
general staff, a-sked King Constantine
this noon to grant him leave of absence
for 45 days. The king assented. Gen
eral Gennadis probably will replace
General Moschopoulos.
NORWEGIAN BOAT TORPEDOED
Republican A. P. Leased WlreJ
LONDON, Oct. 1. The Norwegian
steamer Rolf Jar, l,2fi.r tons, has been
torpedoed, according to a Renter dis
patch from Trondhjem. The crew was
saved.
DR. WILSON DEAD
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
CHKLSEA, Mass., Oct. 1. Pr. George
B. Wilson, commandant of the naval
hosoital here, died today. He was born
in Kittery, Maine, in 1XG3. He former
ly was surgeon of the Asiatic fleet.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, Oct. 1. Charles K.
Hughes, republican presidential nomi
nee, returned here today after his two
weeks tour of the middle west and
parts of New York state. He conferred
at length with William R. Willcox,
prosecution was conducted by United
.States District Attorney W. W. Ray,
and the defense was represented by K.
B. Critchlow, of Salt Lake, and L. C.
Boyle, of Kansas City, formerly attor
ney general of Missouri. The max
imum penalty is one year imprison
ment and $10,000 fine.
The men convicted are: Charles Irv
ing, of Denver; James Macbeth and
A. J. Atkin. of Ogden; Charles J. Hig
son, F. G. Carthey, Wr. S. Higham, F.
W. Jones, 1'. J. James. Henry Green.
William Rees and William Rossiter. of
i Salt Lake, and J. A. Forsythe. of Price,
Utah,
HUGHES RESTING INH lK
AFTER1MEEKS' CAMPAIGN TRIP
Conferees to
THIRTEEN
-
-
HERE IS THE ROUTE
OF THE PARADE
The parade of the Bamum &
Bailey circus will leave the circus
grounds at the foot of Seventh
street at 10 o'clock this morning.
It will go north on Seventh street
to Adams street, then west on
Adams to Fourth avenue, then
south on Fourth avenue to Wash
ington, then east on Washington
to Seventh street.
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONDON, net. 2. Another Zeppelin
raid against London and the east coast
ZEPPELIN 10
IS IN PROGRESS;
ONECiTDOI
of England is in progress. An airship ' lllorC tliail ninety pl'l'SOHS ill
is reported to nave been brought down., far, lliailV of tlielll
in flames north of London, according . ' . ,
to the official statement issued shortly returning IlOHl tile tlieatei'S.
"A number of hostile airships crossed I f1(i Street Cai' WAS Stl'Uck
the east coast between nine o'clock almost ill tllC Center, tllC inl
and miumght. A few bombs were '
dropped near the coast, but no damage pact UlSlllllUT it It'OIll tllC
raid is' still in progress and
-ships are in the vicinity f !
where some irons have lieen in ,
"The r
some airs
London
action.
rtit i in .Fiiiru .....iiii, unii i
in flames north of Irtdon." MCgaH Jumping Il'Olll (lOOl'S
Great crowds cheered the spectacle i ,.ljln.;n(r tlivonrrli win
of the burning Zeppelin as it fell in the, tUKl UlllllJing llllOUgll 111
Londo,i district. The great flare from tlows Jost of the dead AVei'C
the burnin? aircraft was visible for a.
longdistance. I Killed l)V jumping Il'Olll tllC
Four Zeppelin raids on London and1 -,' . .
the east counties have been carried out ear and tailing Under the
in the Inst month, the more recent at
tnclm being made by airships of the
newer and bigger tyoe. On September 1
2 one Zeppelin was struck while fly- !
ing over the London district ajid fe'd in
flames.
Two Zeppelins were destroyed in the:
nUd n.huC3- SVn;atd!h(' ij'l to the hospitals
wounded l"jr. The following night, in I
another raid, in wh'ch the airships ap
parently escaped without damage, they
killed 31 persons, and wounded 27.
In the raid of September 2 only two
persons suffered death, and 13 were in
jured. Conditions More Difficult
AMSTERDAM, Oct. 1. (Via London)
Tho military critics of the Frankfur
ter Zeltung says the conditions for Zep
pelins attacks on England are much
more difficult than even a year ago.
The British, he says, have lmd time to
carry their defense measures to the
highest perfection.
FUNSTON COMPLETES TOUR
fReoublican A. P. Leased Wire
BROWNSVILLE, Tex., Oct. 1
Major General Frederick Funston to
day completed bis tour of the border
army camps and left for Corpus
Christi, where he will inspect the camps
of the Second and Third Texas In
fantry. EXPECT MAIL SEIZURES NOTE
republican A. P. Leased Wire '
WASHINGTON, Oct. 1. Officials
here expect the British note on mail
seizures to reach the state deportment
early this week. Lmbassy advices in
dicate that it probably was sent to this
country on the liner Philadelphia, which
arrived at New York today.
chairman of the republican national
committee.
Mr. Hughes plans to remain in this
city until Wednesday, when he will go
to ome nearnv town for a few days'
rest before starting October 9 on his
third campaign tour, which is expected
to take him as far west as Nebraska.
Tuesday night he will lie the guest of
nonor at a reception here at the union
league club, at which former president
tiooseveit. and Tatt will be present.
Air. Hughes expressed himself as well
satisfied with the progress of his cam
paign. Fairbanks at Los Angeles
LOR ANORLES. Cal., Oct. 1 Charles
W. Fairbanks, republican candidate for
vice president, arrived here late today
accompanied by former United States
District Attorney, Joseph B. Keating of
Indianapolis, who announced that the
candidate's principal address in this
city tomorrow "would be devoted to
answering President Wilson's assertion
that the election of a republican nresi-
dent would involve the United States
in two wars.
A committee of republicans including
Lieutenant Governor William B. Steph
ens, received Mr. Fairbanks, who later
visited his son. Frederick C.Fairbanks,
a resident of Pasadena, Six meetings
comprise tho program for the candidate
In this city tomorrow.
Resume Consideration Border Peace Plans
DIE IN STREET CAR CRASH
SWITCH ENGINE
SENDS FREIGHT
NTO TROLLEY
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
DETROIT, Oct. 1. Thir
teen persons were killed and
more than twenty-five in
jured, several probably fat
all', late tonight when a
switch engine pushing two
freight cars crashed into a
! crowded street car at Forest
L,r,..,n n,l T t. . . . , , I . , ,1 , . .', , 4-
a v nine; ami j-111 uinuri aui-ui
on the east side. There were
tl'a.'ks Ulld sliding it alollg
sid(M f tho freight ears
;MU "l LUL HI
Panic stricken passengers
, . . ,. -.
wheels
of the still moving
j l'eigllt Cai'S.
, , , . ,
AlllOUianceS WCl'C l'USlied
L . 1 ... .1.1.. A. ...1.
'O llif M flu; ctUU UU1CK1, MHlh
U .. .! 1 ..t.J - 1. - 1.1
i iiiiaiiinin one nospuai
alone reported fifteen in
jured and one dead had been
taken there.
Tonight's accident is the
third of a similar nature here
in the last year and the sec
ond to occur at the Forest
avenue crossing.
The railroad tracks at I)e
quinder street are used by
the Grand Trunk and De
troit Terminal railroad com
panies. The death of a little girl, who died
while being taken to a hospital, brought
the list of dead to fourteen. At the
same hospital one man was reported
to be dying, while three others, un
identified, were unconscious and the
extent of their injuries undetermined.
Those who were killed outright at
the crossing were so badly mangled
that identification there was impos
sible. According to a member of the
switching crew, the train was moving
at about twenty miles an hour when it
struck the street car.
Robert O'Keefe, conductor in charge
of the switching crew, and William
Carter and Alex Clishe, motorman and
conductor or tne street car, were taken
to police headquarters where they were
being questioned long after midnight.
(Continued on Page Two)
p
Balloting Begin
In the Election
In Nicaragua
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
MANAGUA, Nicaragua, Oct. 1.
Balloting was begun today in the
presidential election. Liberals and
progressives are abstaining from vot
ing. The indications are that General
Hrniliano iChamorro. candidate of the
conservatives, will be elected.
The newspapers print an interview
with General Chamorro, denying that
he signed the conditions reported to
have been imposed by Dr. Benjamin
L. Jefferson, the United States min
ister.
It was reported that Dr. Jefferson
had intimated that tne victor in the
elections must respect existing treat
ies with the United States. American
economic intervention in the country
and the policing of Managua by
American marines. The liberals were
said to have rejected the alleged con
ditions.
Voting Is Orderly
WASHINGTON, Oct. 1. Voting to
day in the presidential election in
Nicaragua was conducted in an or
derly manner, Aumiral Capertnn re
porte-1 to the navy department.
Balloting will continue tomorrow.
RIPLEY BELIEVES LAW
UNCONSTITUTIONAL
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NFAV YORK, Oct 1. Edward P.
Ripley, president of the Atchison, To
peka and Santa Fe Railway today
sent to the stockholders of the com
pany an appeal to them to work for
the passage of remedial legislation to
meet the situation created by the
passage of congress of the eight hour
law at the request of the font rail
way brotherhoods.
"Since the precedent of abandon
ing arbitration and hurriedly paying
the d Mounds of railroad iinlons by
special congressional enactment has
been established' he says in his com
munication, "does it not behoove you
to exercise your influence in favor of
appropriate remedial legislation?
"This company believes that the act
which congress has passed is uncon-
E
DIES IT ROME
Of
Republican A. P. Leased Wlrel
LITTLE ROCK, Ark.. Oct. 1. United
States Senator James P. Clarke, presi
dent pro tempore of the United States
senate, died at his home here today.
Senator Clarke suffered a stroke of ap
oplexy Friday and never regained cou
sciousness.
Senator Clarke was born In Yazoo
City, Miss., August 18, 1S54. He was
IT H
mm
educated in the schools of his native poisoning and examination of the gas
state and in 1 878 graduated from the pipes revealed no leakage. Aledical at
law department of the University of i tention revealed no cause for the
Virginia. He began the practice of ,
law in Helena, Ark., in 187
Kntering politics. Air. Clarke was ad
vanced rapidly from legislator in 1886
to state senator in 1888, to the presi
dency of the state senate in 18'Jl, and to
attorney general in 1892. He was
elected governor in 18H4. In 1903 he
was elected United States senator and
was re-elected in 190H and in 1915. He
was elected president pro tempore of
the senate in 1913 and re-elected in
1915. His present term as United
States senator would not have expired
until Alarch 4, 1921.
Senator Clarke was married in Hel
ena on November 15, 1883, to Miss
Sallie Moore. She and a son and two
daughters survive.
Funeral services for the late senator
will be held Tuesday afternoon from
the residence here, followed by inter
ment in a local cemetery.
Governor George W. Hays announced
tonight that he will issue a proclama-
tion tomorrow ordering all state de
partments closed during the funeral.
Succeeded Senator Frye
WASHINGTON, Oct. 1. Senator
Clarke had been president pro tempore
of the senate since the democratic
party gained control in 1913. He was
chosen by party caucus to succeed the
late Senator ! rye of Maine.
Senator Clarke left Washington a
few weeks ago apparently in good
health. In the closing days of the last
(Continued on Page Two";
WILSON IS CONGRATULATED
HIS SPEECH
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LONG BRANCH, N. J, Oct. 1. So
many messages congratulating Presi
dent Wilson on bis speech here yester
day were received by him today that
he has decided to follow the same gen
eral line in future addresses at Shadow
Lawn.
Arrangements were completed today
for the president's trip to Omaha be
ginning Tuesday. He will arrive in
Omaha Thursday morning at 11:40
o'clock and will remain there until ten
o'clock that night, returning to Long
Branch, Saturday morning at ten
o'clock. Saturday afternoon he will
address an assemblage of independents
here.
A busy day has been arranged for
him in Omaha. Soon after his arrival
he will attend a luncheon at the Com
mercial club. Then be will ride at the
head of a historical pageant and later
review it. In the evening he will speak
in the Omaha auditorium.
Henry Ford, of Detroit, will lunch
with the president here tomorrow.
Prospects for peace in Europe are ex
pected to be discussed.
President Wilson received a num
ber of telegrams today bearing on his
message to Jeremiah O'Leary, president
of the American Truth society, telling
him he wanted no "disloyal" Americans
to vote for him. Most of the telegrams
praised the president for his stand,
but a few criticized him.
Statements made by a brother of
Mr. O'Leary that suit should be
brought against the president for libel
were received lightly by administra
tion officials. No comment was made
stitutional and that steps should be
taken to resist it in evey lawful
manner."
Mr. Ripley calls attention to the
fact that the president recommended
consideration by the interstate com
merce commission of an increase in
freight rni.es to meet tne wage in
crease charge resulting and also to
prohibit strikes until investigation.
The brotherhoods he said have made
it clear they will resist such legis
lation. It appeals, he says, that "un
til some n-medial legislation shall be
adopted, the only way to avert tie
ups is for congress to grant by spec
ial legislation, whatever demands la-
nor comoinUions may insist upon as
their price of permitting the neonlo
to continue to eniov r.iilwav trains
pcrtaticn."
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
LANCASTER, Ohio, Oct. 1. Neigh
bors of Agnes and Alice Smetters,
maiden sisters, aged 48 and 5u years,
seeing no activity about the house of
the two women today, entered the
house tonight and found the two wom
en and Aliss Alary Streeton, 80, a vis
itor, sitting erect in roekinir chairn
dead. There was no sign of violence or
ueatns ami tne oodles have been taken
charge of by the coroner who is at
tempting; to solve the mystery of the
deaths.
That death had come quietly was ev
idenced by the fact that one of the
sisters had her glasses on and was
holding a newspaper.
The stomachs of the three women
will be sent to Columbus Alonday for
an analysis.
Is It Suicide Pact
1'HILADELI'Hl A, Oct. 2. Two aged
maiden sisters died together in what
the police believe was a suicide pact in
a gas filled bed room of their home
here today. They were Kmma and An
na Oran, respectively 65 and 59 years
old, owners of a drygoods store which
they had conducted for more than for
ty years.
They sent the housekeeper to the
seashore for the day and a few hours
later, neighbors found them dead in
' each others arms. They had no rela
fives and the housekeeper said they of
ten had expressed fear that one of
them would die and leave the other
alone in the world.
Two Sisters Suffocated
NEW YORK, Oct. 1. Two sisters.
. Mrs. Harriet Veder. 70 vears of age and
1 Mrs. Caroline Cutherbeck, 68 years oh
both widows, were suffocated tonight
bv smoke from a fire which caused
slieht damage in a three story frame
building in which they lived.
The dead sisters were found by fire-
I men seated at a table in the dining
room of their home.
THREE WOMEN
ARE VICTIMS OE
STRANGE DEATH
ON
LAI
AT SI
ADI
except that President Wilson person
ally handled the telegram to Mr.
O'Leary and stands back of the mes
sage. "ajFR
Independent Voters' Day
NEW YORK, Oct. 1. President Wil
son has designated next Saturday as
Independent Voters' day at Shadow
Lawn, the national democratic com
mittee announced tonight. The pil
grimage to Long Branch will be under
the auspices of the Woourow Uson
Independent League, of which Repre
sentative W. S. Kent of California, is
chairman. The New York and New
Jersey delegations will travel in special
trains.
Ship Races For Port While
Fire Is Raging Below Decks
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
NEW YORK, Oct. 1. Fire, which
broke out in tho cargo hold of the
American line steamship Philadelphia
Thursday while the vessel was X00
miles from this port, still was
smouldering when she arrived here
today. Few of the 646 passengers
were aware of the peril they had
been in until after the big liner
docked.
The first intimation of fire was
MINING 1EN TO
PRESENT THEIR
VIEWS TO BODY
Republican A. P. Leased Wire
ATLANTIC CITY, Oct. 1. Repre
sentatives of the more important
American mining interests in Mexico
are expected to appear before the
American members of the Alexican
American joint commission here to
morrow regarding conditions in Mex
ico. Before they are received, tho
commissioners will hold their first
joint session here in continuation of
the discussions begun at New London
four weeks ago.
Consideration of plans for tho
maintenance of peace along the bor
der will be resumed, but reports
which continue to arrive - of Villa's
activity in Chihuahua may seive as a
further delay to agreement. The
commissioners maie no secret of the
fact that failure of General Car-
ranza 8 forces to run down ilia has
proved embarrassing.
It was considered probable tonight
that General Carranza's latest elec
toral decree would be discussed to
morrow. The decree is said to stipu
late that none of those connected
even remotely with the Huerta ad
ministration shall have the right to
vote at the coming presidential elec
tion.
Another subject to be disoussed
more fully this week will be the clos
ing of the National bank and th9
Rank of London and Mexico.
Goinq After Villa
CHIHUAHUA CITY, Oct. 1. Gen
eral Carlos Ozuna arrived here to
day with 1500 infantry and cavalry
from Saltillo by way it Torreon, to
take the fieul in western Chilniaiiui
against the bandit band led by VVd:
and Jose Yne'z Salazar.
General Ozuna will relieve General
Mat las Ramos temporarily while the
latter general's wound in the left leg,
received at Cusihuiriaehio, heals.
General Ramos is now a patient in
the Chihuahua military hospital. His
wound, which was made by a mauser
bullet, is not considered serious and
be expects to rejoin his command
within two weeks.
General Ozuna will proceed tomor
row to the Carranza base at Santa
Ysabel, thirty-three miles west of
here, and will be joined there by
General Ramos' forces. numbering
approximately 800. This augmented
force will then proceed to Cusihuir
iachic to attack the Villistas said to
be in possession of that mining camp,
twenty miles west or Santa Ysabel.
General Ozuna has a reputation as
a military commander throughout the
eastern military zone, where he won
his eagle by his aid in General Tre
vino's defense of the Ebano oil dis
trict, near Tampico. against the Vil
listas during the ' Villa revolution
against Carranza.
Still Executing Villistas
EL PASO. Texas, Oct. 1. Execu
tions of Villista sympathizers and
suspects continue in Chihuahua City,
an American arriving from the state
canital reported tonight.
There has been a milk famine in
Chihuahua City because of the fact
that a number of milkmen were ar
rested and shot on the charge of
enrrving information to the Yillastas
outside of the city.
The result has been that milkmen
have almost ceased making trips to
the city. One man was found to
have been carrying ammunition out
of the city ir. his emptv milk cans
to the Villa forces preceding the at
tack. He was shot
Villa's men looted the town c.f
Cusihuiriachic after the fight with the
Carranza forces under Matias Ramos,
advice's to local mining companies in
the Cusi district tonight state. After
the fight the Carranza forces with
drew to Santa Ysabel and the entira
town of 3000 was sacked of food sup
plies and valuables.
General Francisco Gonzales, com
mander of the Carranza forces In the)
north, returned from Chihuahua City
today after a conference with Gen
eral Jacinto Trevino. commander of
the northeastern military zone, re
garding the campaign against Villa
and tne use of the northern troops to
co-operate with General Trevino's
commands in the field.
It is possible that General Gonzales
will take command of a force in th
field in western Chihuahua against
Villa, moving against the Villistas
from Cases Grandest as a base, in co
operation with the forces of General
Carlos Ozuna, who has relieved Gen-
(Continued on Page Two)
when smoke was seen pouring from a
hatch under the steerage dining-room,
aft. The officers, it was said, re
moved the 343 steerage passengers at
once and took precautions to keep
the news from spreading. While the
blaze was got under control quickly,
no time was lost in steaming to port.
The Philadelphia, left Liverpool
Saturday, September 23. Origin of
the fire has not been determined.
Flooding of the cargo hold checked
the flames.
