' Oregon Historical 8oc!et
tump 207 Second fit
Tidings
"Ashland Crows While Llthia flows'
: City of Sunshine and flowers
Ashland, Oregon, Llthia Springs .
"Oregon's famous Spa'
VOL. XLI
ASHLAND, OREGON MONDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1916
NUMBER 38
LocalH.S.Boysand
Girls Earn $9,000
Ashland
Fined $18.00
Alter Hilt Tiip
After arriving from a trip over to
Hilt Wednesday evening, J. H. May
field, a resident of Phoenix, was
Southern Pacific
Taxes Are Big Item
The important part which the
Southern Pacific's property and op-
Full Pantages Show
At Vining Friday
A treat such as Ashland has never
before experienced, a full Pantages
TAG YOU'RE IT.
from the local high school worked taken Into custody by Patrolman
for wages during the summer. The ' Carpenter and brought Into police
total amount of money earned by the ' court before Mayor Johnson, in the
students amounted up to $8,924.95. i absence from the city of Recorder
The hiehest Individual amount earn-1 Gillette, and after being given a
Following an investigation made
by Superintendent Briscoe last week,
it was found that 215 boys and girls
ed during the summer was $315.
Two boys reported making $200 each,
trial before several witnesses was
found guilty of drunken and dlsor-
while 27 students made $100 or over. 1 derly conduct, whereupon the mayor
Thirty-four reported making $50 or promptly Imposed a fine of $15 and
more; 83 made less than $50, the ,$3 costs. Mayfield not being able
pmallest amount being $4. Out of ; to pay the fine, gave good security
the 215 who reported, 67 were girls, land was released to go his way, stat
The amount made by the girls was ( Ing that It was a pretty expensive
$1,052.65. The largest individual celebration.
amount made by a girl was $60. The
written report of each student ; TJafrrllPrir llfill
showed that the girls worked chiefly . ilV W ndllMCl jf W HI
in picking and pncklng fruit, dress- Tn Cfl CfraOTTIC
making, stenography, clerking in j IlCip .dtOCK tjllCuUlS
stores, and housework. Two-thirds I ,
of the boys1 work was away from j j A Ijerriani 8uperinten(jent 0,
as es-
(By Dick Posey.)
D'you reekollect that good old game of tag we used to play?
We'd chase and tag each other 'round the bani the livelong day.
Then try to make some feller "IT" and steal the base he'd lost,
And he'd yell "Hey! you can't git me, I've got my fingers crossed."
We've all grown up to manhood and we're still a-playln' tag.
Bill's got a great big dry-goods store, you'd ort to hear him brag.
A big cyard in his winder says he's sellin' out at cost,
But when you pin him down you'll find he's got his fingers crossed.
Jake's just an honest farmer politicians tell him so.
He takes great pride In raisin' spuds, his holiliy, don't 'you know,
But the biggest, smoothest ones, somehow, up to the top gits tossed,
And when you dig down deep you'll find Jake's got his fingers
crossed. :
Four years ago my chum, Woodrow, lit- run for president,
And made all sorts of promises just ever'wheres he went.
"One term's a lot," sez he, "I'm no hog, elect me or you're lost,"
But now he sez, Tse funnin', boys, I had my fingers crossed."
home, chiefly in the logging camps ; the ,)ew fi(jh hatc!lerv which w
of the Weed, Alsoma, Hilt and Mc-
Cloud lumber companies. The hay !
fields and orchards got a good share
of the boys' attention, while the
smallest number of boys worked In
town.
Early last spring a bureau of em
ployment for high school students
talilished last year at Butte Creek,
reports fine progress being made
i with the fish fry, which are now fin
j gerlings and ready to be liberated in
j the streams of the county,
j In bottles, Mr. Berrlan displays
the progress of the trout from the
; egg. Those fed at the hatchery
was inaugurated oy ine A.umn. ! omls for 30 uays are an ,ncn ln
sociation. With the commercial ,ength Jhfm fe(J co dnyg are tw0
classes of the high school doing most ; lncheg Iong wbelhoBe fe(1 120 days
or tne clerical worK, letters were
Farmers of Ashland District Form
First Federal Loan Association
average three and ono-half to four
Inches in length. Salmon of the
same age aro six Inches in length.
Mr. Berrlan has matured 500.000
steelhead fry and 75,000 eastern
lirnnk Of ftipnp hp tinQ nlrpflriv lth-
Jiic UUJ null nilsi VI LI1C KU la n uu . . aaa nn . ii j i An ntti I
.... . . ... . i erated 200,000 steelhead and 20,000
written to practically every employer
within a radius of a hundred miles,
and as a result the bureau wag un
able to fill the requests for help
which came in during the summer.
wished to work found plenty to do
at good wages. The employment bu
reau will be maintained during the
school months for the purpose of se
curing odd jobs and out-of school
hours positions for the students who
need such help to keep them in
school.
Of course, the demand for labor
has been good this summer and the
bureau's effectivenes was no doubt
The balance are still
The farmers of Ashland and vi
cinity met at the city hall Saturday
afternoon to promulgate a Farmers'
Federal Loan Association. J. F.
Kocho acted as chairman. After a
few brief remarks setting forth the
object of the meeting and the bene
fits of the loan bill, B. H. Hurd of
Medford was introduced and ex
plained the workings of the farm
ers' loan act in a most able and sat
isfactory manner, giving each one
an opportunity to ask any questions
relative to the loan act. The pre
liminary steps were then taken for
an organization. It was voted that
same be called the Ashland Federal
Farm Loan Association. The chair-
eastern brook.
being fed.
Owing to the Ideal location of the
hatchery, the abundance of cold wa
ter And thp pynprlpnppd rarp hp.
i.v Mr ninn ,h w iiaa man, J. F. Rocho, was elected to organization and no doubt will be
been negligible and sturdier and ' represent this body and meet with
line organizations or jacKson coun
ty. It was also voted that the chair
appoint a committee of three to act
as trustees, of which the chairman
be one, and to call another meeting
for' next Saturday, 2:30 p. m., at
the city hall, Ashland, to perfect the
organization. Able speakers will be
present. ,
The above is deemed necessary in
order to have the preliminaries com
pleted so as not to delay loans when
the banks are established,
More than $20,000 has already
been applied for, and this amount
will probably be doubled before the
next meeting, as all those signed up
by that time will become charter
members. Ashland has the distinc
tion of being the first to -form an
eratlon taxes play in the financing of vaudeville show, Is due at the Vin
the county can be gained from the ing Theatre Friday evening of this
fact that last week the company ' week. The complete Pantages show,
turned over a total of $44,760 to just as it was shown in Portland
Jackson county. , and will be shown in San Francisco,
The total tax charged on the rolls stops off here for the one evening,
of Jacksoa county Is $778,778.44. To and no Ashlander who likes good
date, which Includes Friday's collec- amusement should miss this attrac
tions, $126, 306. OK has been paid, tlou. And the show which Is coming
leaving a balance of $352,472.36 still is hailed as ono of tho best which
to be paid. Tn this is an approxl- i has traveled over the Pantages clr
mate sum of $68,000 due from the j cuit this season. Remember, this Is
O. & C. land grant. j the best vaudeville in the country.
According to the sheriff's office, Ashland has seen parts of the Pant
tax payments to date show an In-; ages shows before, single acts which
have stopped off here, and has also
seen Empress circuit shows which
rank in the next class to Pantages,
but this is the first opportunity to
see a full Pantages show.
The Portland Oregon ian of Sep
tember 26 tells of the show which
crease over last year.
State Conference j
Here This Week!
i'
Beginning on Wednesday, October
will appear here as follows:
c. ,..., ... it'. i., ..i. ...i,. ,...rn.r
4. the Oregon district conference of --"" -
thp ri,,,.i, f ti, i.reii.r,,,, ,,,,.. because he surely is a scream. Ho
A large attendance from all
is one of the important spots on the
stronger young fish were never
raised anywhere.
Ten thousand of the steelhead fry
chanced by that factor. Just ex
actly to what extent the bureau's in
fluence extended in the money-earning
record of the summer will be in
vestigated by Superintendent Briscoe
ln the future.
Every Ashlander is reminded that
to give an odd job to a high school
boy or girl in preference to a tran
sient is to keep money in town, help
keep a student ln school and help
build up a always available supply
of reliable labor.
are being marked before liberation
'by clipping the adipose fin, so that
' in future years the progress of the
, trout can be watched.
Commercial Club
Moves to City Hall
the strongest, when the question is
fully understood, which will mean a
great saving to them.
here.
I. Ill ... 11..... Li I
over the state is anticipated and '.
some excellent programs and meet- "",:ullar "chllrcture. lhl 1,1 tlia
lngs have been arranged. The con-, ,BB uml hcuvS' u,,ove llie walHt' lle
ference will extend over three davs. ! I,UIW" the time "'"j"" "
ti, ,nut.if fr..p ...in i, ,. Prs, which are in imminent danger
i iiu uinn lid vvn iLitiitu i 1 1 1 iunv u
Wednesday and Thursday mornings, i
P. S. VanDyke w 111 deliver a mission-1
ary sermon Wednesday evening. Hev. i
VanDyke comes from Newberg.
Thursday afternoon will be given
Over to a ministerial program with'
discussions by ministers from K la ni
nth Pnllu Aflliliinrl. N'pwliprir jinil !
Portland, Friday morning will lle; over In fine style Is Johnson's Creole
.given over to a Sunday school pro-1 tce f m' '"j18 wh
. , , , , ' present old and new untamed musics
gram, participated In by students1'
: nlt tlmn uniiMinrn ril rrvl llir-Oll
from the valley and northern Ore- . . ' ' ,",
con. There will bIho be a round ta-!
ble. Friday afternoon will be held JIgs 01111 8CorcB-
the Sisters' Aid Society meetings and
mothers' meeting. Friday evening , monlC8, , , , ,
will be devoted to a temperance pro- "cl"1,ft Coleman ls a glrI
...... . ... 'of the May Irwin typo. She has an
gram w nil n if uipeiuuue seruiuu u
The Commercial Club is moving
I its furniture and belongings to the
Every boy or girl ; new quarters In the city hall today
sent out by the high school ls sent j and expects to finish moving tonior--with
the idea that he or she is better i row. A coat of oil is being put on
fitted for the particular line of work ivthe floor of the new room and corn
offered than the others. A careful I pletes the remodelling. The new
record is kept of efficiency and em-'club room is a neat, well-lighted and
ployers are asked to report on the nicely finished room and in both lo--work
done by students assigned to ! cation and arrangements is ideal for
them. The student who does not do ! the purpose. The chairs and some
the job well is not sent out again, j of the other furniture belonging to
Call the high school if odd job help 1 the club have been moved to the coun
ls needed. I cil chamber upstairs in the city hall
and will replace the battered- old
benches which have been such a
handicap to attendance at council
: meetings tn the past: The upstairs
VftlinO Man HlP'room wm be fixed up with pictures,
IOUflg MM Ultb etc w)lich are Ieft over after the
office is arranged. Besides giving
Mr. and Mrs. A. W. Thomas, re- the club downstairs quarters, a ma
siding at 993 Boulevard, received terlal saving is made in the item of
word Sunday evening of the sudden rent, the council having entered into
death of their son Raymond at Elko, I a contract to rent the office room
Nev. Particulars were not given, j and use of the council chamber at
The remains are to be brought to $i a year. The club pays the run-
Former Ashland
Medford Comes Here
For Drinking Water
A man visited the Tidings office
the other day and opened conversa
tion as follows.
"Say, do you see that jug out on
the sidewalk?" pointing to an im
mense demijohn of perhaps ten gal
lons capacity. We interestedly ad
mitted that we observed the jug.
"Well," he said, "I did not come up
Auto Plunges Over
Thirty-Foot Bank
Rolling over several times and
throwing out the occupants, a Mitch
ell car with three tourists from Se
attle 'went over the embankment at
the overhead crossing at Stelnman
Friday evening, Berioiisly injuring
the driver, Roy Caddin, and his wife
and badly bruising the third occu
pant of the car, Mr. Caddin's broth-
from Medford with that to get lithia j er. The car was a high-powered
water." The statement awakened j roadster and the party had stopped
our interest still further, and we : on the bridge to make engine re
agaln closely observed the jug but pairs. In starting up, apparently
Ashland for interment. The de
ceased attended school here and a
largo number of friends will
shocked to learn of his death.
ning expenses, such a heat and light.
H. O. Purucker, H. G. Enders and
could see no signs of rising spirits
in it, so asked him to "unload his
mind."
"I came up here to get plain Ash
land water for drinking, and I am
coming again every time we run out
down at Medford. And I'm not the
only Medford man who Is sending or
coming up here for his water, eith
er," lie stated.
The reason for the excursion to
Ashland for water lies in the fact
that the city water in Medford is
th wheels were cramped sideways,
and the clutch taking hold quickly,
the car jumped over the edge before
the driver could straighten It out.
The party had camped at the auto
camp here for two or three days and
made several side trips from here.
They had left for California Friday
afternoon, the accident occurring
early Friday evening.
Roy Caddin was thrown out ahead
of the car and under it so that the
front axle had to be lifted from his
of falling off.
"With two partners, Sig Mealy
'and Bert Montrose, who are aero-
batlc dance marvels, 'Scream' offers
: a clever original act. 1 ney almost.
break up tho show when thuy fall
. into an argument.
"A big number and one that gets
'One old darky dances the old tinie
The music is mel
odious and full of departures in har-
A. J. Ellenberger of Klamath Falls.
act with hats showing by tueir
wearing what may be expected or
the wearer. Miss Coleman sparkles;
with originality of Ideas and iru-
Grazlng experts of the Forest Svrv-
lr Aatlmntp thai tha pnut nf nrnrliifi.
., , . . ' nresscs her audience with the trua
Ing lambs In the northwestern states '"B" "
Is $1.S2 per head.
The
artistry and humor of her offering.
'Her telephonic Imitation of before
and after marriage is delightful.
I "Kartelll is a wonder on the wire.
!lle balances perfectly on the swing-
Joint Institute u wlro u,e w,,n" he r,d,!s ,1b'cy,tf
w villi. iiinvivHbv i)()ls(ig 1K,rUoH8ly lla handle.-
" I bars,
teachers' annual institute,; ... ,.,, ,. ,i rninrfi iim-
Partial Program of
Josephine and Jackson counties, will ))pr ,s t)).u of thn SocU.(y nmls, feu
be held In tlrants Pass on Wednes-! turng vlncent Erne and ,Incic st.
day, Thursday and Friday, October c,n)r There ftre a nuf (lozen pret.
11, 12 and 13, at which time the ty chorllB TOaI,iB w,o wer attractive
teachers of the schools of both coun-1 C0H(llmt,a ,, lnnco nl.d sing,
ties, numbering 350 to 400, will be, paHV I)n(!as ft (llllllty ,,,...
In attendance. The principal speak-1 nm iM,,,r( ,,al.r,s who BI1K8 nice-.
er from abroad will be Miss Fox, of , y flrp tp na,( nm, c,m,lfrt,lir lu)
the Department of the Interior. Uu, ,1()1e of tl0 Tllt,M,Si- dancinj?
Washington, 1). C, whose principal j toac,,prgi TllC(!e two i,er8onat
talks will he on primary work. Other tfi te1(.herH w,lHe s, r,alr and
he Clark Bush are the members of the
house committee in charge of the
"moving day" activities.
The stand of timber on the two
great national forests ln Alaska is
estimated by the Forest Service as
over 70 billion board feet, while the
annual growth will, it is said, pro
duce pulpwood alone enough for the
manufacture of 3,000 tons of wood
pulp a day.
Twenty-Six Miles
On Gallon of Gas
?
Kenneth McWilliams, who is em
ployed as a demonstrator by George
! Milner's Overland agency, was show-
JSJ''$'S$S1 1"S of tlle merits of one of the
S Overland cars to a prospective buyer
ft ! last Friday. The question of how
S ,' far the car would run on a gallon
$ of gas was brought up, and to try tl
! out the men filled the tank full, ran
to Medford and back and discovered
that Just exactly one gallon had been
used ln making twenty-six and a half
miles. Which Is beating John D.
out of his means of livelihood.
fraugbt with foreign odors and taste back. When he was brought to the
and also contains a great amount of j local Sanitarium it was discovered
sediment as the result of the clean-1 that his spine was bent and perilous
ing out of Fish Lake by the Rogue ly near to broken. It was straight
River Capal Company. The canal ened out and today the patient was
company lets out the water ln great resting easily. He also sustained a
quantities from the lake and washes j broken shoulder blade. The woman
moss and sediment down into the ! was badly bruised and cut but is do-
Medford mains. While the water Is I Ing nicely at the Sanitarium. The
free from contamination, according j third member of the party was not
to Water Superintendent Arnspiger I hurt badly. The injured persons
of Medford. its taste and odor have were brought to Ashland on a pass
made many Medford people sus- lug train. The car was not damaged
plclons of it. The Medford water de- badly, the fact that the thirty foot
partment advises the users to boil 'embankment was of sand saving it
speakers will be State Superintend
ent J. A. Churchill, Dr. DeBusk of
the University of Oregon, Prof. Reed
of the Oregon Agricultural College
Mrs. Heller of the Oregon Boys' and
Girls' Aid Society, President Acker
man of the Oregon Normal School,
Prof. M. S. littmaii, professor of ru
ral schools of the Oregon Normal
School, H. C. Seymour of the Boys'
and Girls' Industrial Clubs, and L. P.
Harrington, state field worker for
the Hoys' and Girls' Industrial Clubs.
Krne, the
men."
butlers, pose as noblu-
Colonel Mims Is
Medford Postmaster
TRAIN SOIKDI LE EFFECT.
1VE OCTOBER 1.
(Clip this out.)
3 Train No. Arrive.
S 11.'. . 3:55 a.m.
12..
13..
14..
15..
16..
17..
Odd
1.50 a.m.
9:45 a.m.
7:30 a.m.
11:30 p.m.'
6:30 p.m.
5.15 p.m.'
Leave. 8
4:00 a.m. &
1:55 a.m. s
10:00 a.m. S
7:50 a.m. e
11:45 p.m. S
5:50 p.m. 4
Stops here
numbers 1 southbound, &
t even numbers northbound.
Pending satisfactory legislation to
be passed by congress allowing pri
vate capital to develop waterpowers
8!in the west, a $150,000,000 electric
t project on the Columbia river is be-
$.$.$4$fc$'f$SS'&'tS,S(lng held up.
the water as a measure of precau
tion. It is estimated that it will re
quire a week to drain the lake. The
canal company wishes to clean out
the accumulated debris.
Saturday the Interurbans carried
down many ten-gallon milk cans of
water and private cars by the score
came up to get Ashland water. It
was rumored that the school board
had forbidden the use of Medford
water in the schools and that Ash
land water was being shipped down
for that purpose. Several cases of
sickness were supposed to have orig
inated from the water.
and the occupants from more serious
damages.
The bent spine suffered by Mr.
Caddin is a most unusual Injury, the
spine being twisted to an almost un
believable angle. By means of a ma
chine made for spinal work it was
stretched back into shape.
The farm wood lots of the United
States contain abont 10 per cent of
the total standing timber ln the
country. '
Phone news Items to Vh Tidings.
Over 98 per cent of the trees
planted by the Forest Service this
spring at Hebo, Tillamook county,
Oregon, on the Siiislaw national for
est, are still living. This has been
the most succesul planting opera
tion in the forests of the northwest.
Colonel George P. Mlms of Seven
Oaks assumed charge of the Med
ford postofflce this morning, his ap
pointment coming after an office-
seeking strife among the "deserving
democrats'' of Medford which grew
quite warm at times. Colonel Minis
is one of the staunchest and most
popular democrats of the valley and
a lifelong friend of Postmaster Gen
eral Burleson.
Great Campaigner
Will Speak Here
A. E. Clark, a prominent attorney
of Portland and one of the best cam
paigners on the Pacific coast, will
I speak at n republican rally to be
held In Ashland on Wednesday, Oc
tober 11. County Chairman Bert
Anderson was In the city this morn
ing arranging preliminaries with
City Chairman T. 11. Simpson, and
the details of the meeting will be
announced later.
The state of Washington consumes
225 cubic feet of wood per capita
annually, which la more than twice
the average consumption for the
United States and six and a quarter
times the average for Germany.
Rummage Sale
Raises 51,000
Approximately $1,000 was raised
by the rummage sale held at Med
ford the last three days of last week
for the purpose of raising funds for
the aid of the Red Cross work ln
France. The sale was well patron
ized by Ashlanders.
Charles "Chunk" Prescott, '17,
and Delbert Hadfleld, 19, of last
year's student body are both at the
navy training school at San Francis
co. They entered the station last
July.
One ton of coniferous wood waste
will produce from 15 to 25 gallons
of 95 per cent pure alcohol.
COMMERCIAL CTl'B,
Los Angeles was the first city on
the west coast to establish a vaca
tion camp on the national forests.
The Ashland Commercial
Club will meet tonight in the
new quarters in the council
chamber of the city hall. This $
to will be an important meeting
with a number of Important
propositions to come up, and &
3 every member ln the city S
i should attend. Meeting: called $
to order promptly at 8 o'clock.. $
r
