rm
VOL. XX NO. 169.
UAKRE, VERMONT, MONDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1910.
PRICE, OXE CEXT.
THE BARRE DAT
LY
RUSSIANS
A VICTORY ON
LEMBERG ROAD
.Vienna Official Statement
Admits That Ground Was
Gained by the Invaders in
Their New Drive for the
Stronghold in Eastern
Austria-Hungary
SERBIANS ADVANCE
ON MACEDONIA FRONT
another big offensive with the purpose of
driving on to l.emberg. Die oflicial re
ports from IVtrograd und Berlin are h
variance as to the results of (he fighting.
IVtrograd report that 30 miles northeast
of Lemberg, along the. Brody-Krasne rail
way, the Russian arc forcing their way
forward despite the stubborn resistance
of the Teutonic allies and have captured
1.807 ollirers' and men. Also south of
Brzezany, .V) miles southwest of Lem
berg, and along the rilit bank of the
Ziota. Lipa Austro-German positions are
reported to have been taken and 112 of
ficer and 2,208 men made prisoners.
Berlin asserts that the Russian forces
along the Brody-Lemberg railway were
stopped bv the artillery of the teutons,
Hut on the southern wing between Her-
lin admits the Russians gained a foot
hold and are advancing in the angle be
tween tho Tseniuvka and Zlota Lipa riv
ers. In the Carpathians, in the Ludowa see
tor, the Austrians have turned to the of
fensive, and, according to Vienna, in an
attack captured four Russian ollicers and
532 men and eight machine guns.
l AIRSHIP SHOT
DOWN IN RAID
0NL0ND0N
One of Two Attacking Lon
don Was Hit by Anti-Aircraft
Guns and Came to
Earth a Flaming Mass
Eight Others Attacked
Other Places
WOODSVILLE WOMAN
KILLED IN CAR WRECK
Following Seizure of Kai
makcalan Height, They
Advanced Beyond and
Captured Village of Kot
chovie Bulgarians Coun
ter-Attacked on British
Front but Lost
The successful resumption by the Rus
sians of their offensive in Galicia draws
attention anew to the eastern war thea
tre, in which the operations have been of
comparatively small importance since
General Brusiloff's drive for Lemberg was
held up some time ago. Berlin and Vien
na concede that advantages have been
gained by the Russians, who are attack
ing from both the northeast and the
southeast of the Galician capital.
On the southern front in Macedonia the
British have maintained their advances,
scored in their attack of Saturday near
the Struma river.
Recent operations by the French along
the Somme front appear to have been
mostly in the nature of minor attacks,
probably preparatory to some larger
movement in the Peronne region, while
the British main effort has been directed
toward Bapaume, along the road from
Posieres, where an advance on a front of
more than a mile and one-half was an
nounced by London last night.
REBELLION IN
DUTCH EAST INDIES
SQUELCHED
In One Sector the Rebels Have Surren
dered and in Another They Have
Been Defeated.
The Hague, via London, Oct. 2. The
rebellion in the Dutch East Indies is
being quelled, according to official dis
patches received by the government. Reb
els in the district near Morearatebi have
surrendered. Three brigades of infantry
inflicted serious losses on a rebel force
at Semabbe Sept. 28.
AUSTRIANS ATTACK
COUNT ZEPPELIN CAME
NEAR JOINING RAID
His Friends Were Greatly
Alarmed Until They Got
Information That at the
Last Moment the Count
Listened to Family and
Decided Not to Go
Mrs. Chester Abbott Victim as Auto
Backed Down Steep Grade Her
Son, Albert Abbott, Was
Badly Crushed.
Woodsville, X. H., Oct. 2. A frightful
automobile accident happened yesterday
afternoon about 4:30 o'clock near Pat
ridge lake, seventeen miles north of here,
in which Mrs. Abbio Abbott wife of
Chester Abbott of W'oodsville, was in
stantly killed; Albert Abbott, her 10-yenr-old
son, was fsriouslv crushed and
John Thornton was cut about the face
and one or two ribs were broken.
The party, consisting of the Abbott
family and Mr. and Mis. Thornton and
three children, were being driven up a
steep hill, and in attempting to change
gears something broke, causing Albert to
lose control of the machine. J he brakes
failing to work, the car plunged back
ward down the hill, turning over twice
Albert was brought home by M. M. Ruck
ot Wells. River, and the bodv of Mrs-
Abbott, accompanied by Mr. Abbott, was
brought here by Undertaker D. R. Rou-
han.
ALBANY CARS
AT STANDSTILL
Street Car Service in New
York State Capital All
. Tied Up
MEN STRUCK WHEN
ONE WAS BARRED
STEPPED ON ACCELERATOR
Lost
But Failed to Regain Territory
Near Lemberg.
Petrograd, via London, Oct. 2. The
Austrians made heavy counter-attacks
yesterday in an attempt to regain the
ground lost in the new Russian drive on
Lemberg. The war otlice announced to-,
day that the attacks were repulsed and
1.000 more prisoners were taken. I he
fighting occurred on the front southeast
of Lemberg, where heavy engagements
are still in progress.
3,000 PEOPLE PRESENT.
Vienna, via London, Oct. 2. Gains for
the Russian in their new drive towards
lemberg were admitted in a -statement
issued by the war office, supplementing
their official announcement of yesterday.
Paris, Oct. 2. Following up the ad
vantage gained over the Bulgarians at
Kaimakcalan height on the western end
of the Macedonian front, the Serbians
advanced one and one-quartor miles
north of the height and occupied the vil
lage of Kotchovie, the vraj office an
nounced to-day.
The Bulgarians made a counter-attack
on the positions newly won by the Brit
ish on the left bank of the Struman.
The statement says that the Bulgarians
were repulsed, leaving many dead on the
field.
At Laying of Cornerstone of Catholic
School in Burlington.
Burlington, Oct. 2. The cornerstone of
Burlington's new Catholic high school
building was land yesterday attPrnoon by
Rt. Rev. J. J. Rice, bishop of the diocese
of Burlington, in the presence of more
than 3,000 persons. The bishop was as
sisted by clergy of the neighboring par
ishes and there were present as invited
guests, city officials, members of the fac
ulty of the University of Vermont and
teachers of the city schools.
Preceding the ceremony a service was
held in St. Mary's cathedral. Bishop Rice,
delivering a short address. A sermon
whs delivered bv Rt. Rev. Mgr. Cassidv.
vicar general, of Fall River, Mass. Bishop ! company. Coi.nl
Rice laid the corner stone with a silver I r"t in tho
London, Oct. 2. Ten Zeppelins took
part in last night's raid over England.
Two of them attempted to attack Lon
don. One was driven away and the oth
er, as reported last night, was destroyed.
No reports of the casualties have been
received.
Great crowds cheered the spectacle of
the burning Zeppelin as it fell in the Lon
don district. The great flHre from the
burning aircraft, was visible a long dis
tance.
Advices from the suburbs of London
give graphic accounts of the manner in
which the Zeppelin the fourth to be
brought down on English soil fell a vic
tim to Great Britain's anti-aircraft de
fenses. Although the Zeppelin crashed to earth
almost due n-rih of London the spectacle
of the descending blazing mans was wit
nessed by thousands of Londoners.
The Zeppelin liegan to descend slowly
and then dropped fast, the blaze from
it lighting up the country-side for many
miles like day.
Friends of Count . Zeppelin were
alarmed when they learned that another
airship had been brought down in Eng
land lust night, says the Amsterdam cor
respondent of the Exchange Telegraph
( ount Zeppelin
When She Should Have Come Down Hard
on Brake PedaL
St. Johnsbiiry, Oct. 2. An automobile
accident occurred near the drv bridge at
the corner of South Main and Railroad
streets Saturday when the car owned and
driven by Mrs. I.ona Over of Whiteficld,
X. H., ran into the car owned and driven
by Charles A. Searles, It is said the
smash came as a result of Mrs. Dyer
stepping on the accelerator instead of the
foot brake.
Mrs. Frank Hale, mother of Mrs. Dyer,
received a badlv lacerated forehead bv
being thrown into th' windshield from
the force of the collision. Dr. W. B.
Fitch attended her and four stitches were
taken in the cut.
The ear driven by Mrs. Dyer was a
new one to her and she had not become
thoroughly familiar with it. Mr. Searles
was unable to stop in time, so both cars
were moving at a ood pace" at the time
of the accident. The Scarlet car received
a jammed running board and fender; the
New Hampshire car a broken windshield
damages to wheel and tire, broken head
lights and other minor damages.
Company Had Taken Action
for Alleged Infrac
tion of Rules
Albany, N. Y., Oct. 2. The local street
car service of the United Traction com
pany was at a standstill to-day as a re
sult of a strike order issued by the offi
cers of the Albany local of the Amalga
mated Association of Street and Electric
Railway Employes, which went into f-
lect at 5 o clock. No cars are being op
erated here, in Renssalaer or Watervliet.
The strike is due to the refusal of the
company to reinstate a motorman who
had been disciplined on the charge of
having run by dead stop signals.
COLLIDED ON NARROW ROAD.
CAR TURNED OVER THRICE.
intended to
None of the Occupants Were Fatally
Injured in 30-Foot Plunge.
Woodwork, Oct. 2. As the result of an
automobile accident which occurred about
10 o'clock Sunday morning, when a 1017
Cadillac ear owned by Earl L. Thompson
of this place and driven by his wife, went
over a !10-foot embankment about thrcs
miles outside the town on the river
road, Miss Thompson, a sister of the
car's owner, is suffering from a sprained
ankle, and the three weeks' old Thomp
son baby is in the hospital at Hanover,
X. H., with injuries which may prove se
rious. The other members of the party,
including Mr. and Mrs. Thompson, their
Two Automobiles Damaged Near East
Montpelier Occupants Slightly Hurt.
A Biiick touring ea,r with three passen
gers and driven bv Richard Coppings of
East Montpelier, bound for l'lainfleld
yesterday afternoon, sideswiped a Stude-
baker touring car owned and driven by
K. A. Merritt of Cabot, near the Daniels
mill in East Montpelier yesterday after.
noon. .Mrs. Merritt and Mrs. George ll-
oway of Montpelier were thrown out of
the Sludebaker car, the former striking
on her back and being rendered uncon
scious. Mr. Merritt managed to stay in
the car, and the passengers of the other
car also remained in their vehicle, al
though an elderly man in the rear seat
was given a hard shaking-iip. Mrs. Mer
ritt was taken to the office of Dr. Wheel
er in Plainfield.
MAY GRAFT BONE ON LEG.
To Replace Piece Which Had to Be Re
moved After Fracture.
Arthur Isabell, aged 10, empbyed as
a steam drill helper at the Jtoutwell,
Milne & Variium quarries in Granite-
vil.'e, is at the City hospital receiving
treatment for a fracture ot the right leg
above the knee. The accident occurred
Saturday afternoon at quarry No. 1,
and after Mrs. E. JL Bailey and G. L. T
Hayes had been summoned to the quar
ry, the lad was brought to the hospital
in vimtcombM motor ambulance. Isa
bell is the son of Napolean Isabell of
upper t.raniteville,
lestenlay a specialist was called in
consultation over the ease of the boy. A
compound Iracture resulted from the ac
cident and the nature of the break made
is necessary to remove n segment of the
bone. Young Isabell is resting fairlv
well and an effort will be made to re
store the leg by grafting a piece of bone
wnere tiic segment was removed.
Isabell whs filling H aji wjth dirt
when the accident occurred. The dirt
was to be used by the blast man in
tamping for a blast and just as the lad
was about to shoulder the pail, a block
of granite weighing around 2,000 pounds,
lipped slowly toward linn. Jte did not
notice the stone in time to escape and
his right leg was caught between the
block and a smaller stone. Einnloveg
bout the quarry vard hastened to his
assistance and the big stone was quickly
removed. Isabell was taken into the ot
flee and before he left for the hospital
the physicians had applied first aid re
storatives. Workmen who examined the
stone which caused the accident are of
the opinion that it was unsettled by the
soggy condition of the turf on which
it rested. Much rain fell Friday night
and trie action ot the water may have
caused the undermining of the dirt on
which the stone was left.
GUN FIRED
INQUARREL
Nobody Hit but Hole Was
Bored in Piazza
Floor
2 MEN ARRESTED;
1 TAKEN TO HOSPITAL
Brook and "jrth Seminary
Street? .e Scene of a
Sif ay Rumpus
TEAM HIT BY ELECTRIC CAR.
Dr. V. C. Goodrich Not Injured, but Car
riage was Damaged.
Dr. V. C. Goodrich had a narrow escape
Sunday afternoon when an electric car
on the Washington street line ran into
his carriage near the Church street cross
ing, (.'-.inductor Nelson and Motorman
Nathrop were in charge of the car and
when a collision seemed imminent, the
latter applied his brakes and sought to
lessen its momentum as much as was
possible on the grade. Apparently Dr.
Goodrich was not aware of the ear's ap
proach until the carriage was struck. The
two rear wheels were all but demolished
and the rear axle was bent. The phvsi-
Gun'
cards .
cian clung to the seat and escaped with
The roadway at that point is rather out a scratch. A number of passengers
FRENCH CAPTURED TRENCH
And Prisoners in Local Operations East
of BouchaveSnes.
Paris, Oct. 2. The war office an
nounced to-day that the French captured
n trench and prisoners on the Somme
front last night in local operations east
of Bouchavesnes.
GERMAN SUBMARINE
IN ARCTIC OCEAN
Undersea Boat Haa Already Torpedoed
Three Norwegian Steamships
There.
C'hristiania, Norway, via London, Oct.
2. A German submarine has made its
way into the Arctic ocean and has torpe
doed three Norwegian steamships there.
i i ,un. u.-.i o niohiro Icables, but a message to Germany elicit -
of the' school building and on the back H th information that at the last mo-
the date of the laying of the cornel - i "'K .W"B persuasion nis
stone and the name of Bishop Rice. The j niy, ne occmea not to join the raiders.
trowel will be given as a souvenir to the
person making the largest donation to
the building fund.
PREMIUM LIST ISSUED.
vnumr ruiv o tin Mr a rtn M ra I ..'nrrro
raid the correspondent, (1ark; wit', piht jnj,lri.s. The
windshield, one fender and top of the
car are badly damaged.
The party left Woodstock for Bellows
Falls with Mrs. Thompson at the wheel.
When about three miles outside of Wood
stock something went wrong with the
steering gear, according to Mrs. Thomp
son's account of the accident, and she
BRITISH NEAR BAPAUME.
Have Captured Eaucort L'Abbage on Al-bert-Bapaume
Road.
London, Oct. 2. Still further gains for
the British and French north of the
Somme river in France are chronicled in
the latest official communication from
London and Paris.
The Germans have been cleared out of
Kisitions near the Stuff redoubt which
they had held since the heavy fighting of
For New England Fruit Show, to Be Held
in Montpelier.
The premium list of the New England
fruit show, in connection witn tne ver
mont Horticultural society, which is to
be held in the Montpelier city hall Nov.
14-18, with $1,000 in premiums for ex
hibits of fruits and vegetables, has been
issued and distributed.
Secretary F. Howard Brown of Marl
boro, Mass., urges early entries, and no
entries will be accepted later than Nov.
8, six days before the opening of the
show. All exhibits must have been
grown in New England states, the pur
pose of the show being to encourage bet-
ier methods of production and marketing
and to call attention to the possibilities
of commercial fruit culture in New England.
Following is the list of speakers, dem
onstrators and judges for the joint ses
sions to be held.
Prof. V. T. Hendrick of Geneva, X. Y.,
experiment station lecturer and judge;
Prof. W. T. Macoun, Dominion horticul
turalist, lecturer and judge, Ottawa,
Can. j Hon. Wilfred Wheeler, lecturer and
judge, secretary Massachusetts board of
agriculture, Boston; Hon. E. S. Brigham,
lecturer, state board of agriculture; Dr.
J. K. Shaw, lecturer and judge, Massa
chusetts agricultural college, Amherst,
Mass. j Prof. G. H. Gourley, lecturer, New
Hampshire state college; Trof. R. F. Lut
man, lecturer, University of Vermont;
Prof. A. F. Hawes, state forester, lectur
er; Prof. F. B. Jenks, lecturer. Univer
sity of Vermont; Thomas Bradlce. lec
turer, director of Vermont agricultural
extension service, University of Ver
mont; W. C. Stone, demonstrator, Ver
mont experiment station; S. Hargraves,
Four Zeppelin raids on London and the
each coast have been carried out in the
last month, the more recent attacks be
ing made by airehips of the newer and'" control of the car, which went over
bigger type. On September 2 one Zen- 30-foot embankment, turning over
narrow ami the Coppings car was pro
ceeding at fairly good speed in order to
make the grade. The bumper of the
Coppings car struck the side of the Mer
ritt car. The front of the East Mont
pelier man's car was damaged, the wheels
being demolished and the engine put out
of commission so that the ear had to be
hauled away by a team. The wheels. on
one side of Mr. Merritt's car were dam
aged and the mudguard was bent; but
the vehicle was driven on its own power
to a garage in Barre.
This is the second accident this season
in which Mr. Coppings has figured, the
first one being near the city dump, when
the car turned over as he started to pass
a team.
AHERN BROOKS.
pelin was struck while flying over the
ixmdun district and fell in flames.
Two Zeppelins were destroyed in the
raid of September 23. On "that occa
sion the raiders killed 38 and wounded
125 persons. The following night in an
other raid in which the airships appar
ently escaped without damage they killed
36 riersons and wounded 27.
Jn the raid of September 2 only two
persons suffered death and 13 were injured.
MORE NEW CITIZENS
three times. The top was up and the
occupants feel that this saved them from
more serious injuries. Mrs. Thompson
was thrown out the first time that the
care turned over, whi' the others went
out later.
INJURED IN FLOOR COLLAPSE.
$10,000 SPIRE CRACKED.
As It Was Being Set in Place at Harri
son, N. V. Cut in Barre Granite.
A news dispatch from Port Chester,
N. Y.. tells of the damaging of a $10,-
000 spire which was being erected iif the
! cemetery of the Meriam Osborne Me-
A quiet wedding occurred Saturday j niorial Home at Harrison, N. V., and the
evening at the home of Henry L. Brooks, jneivs is of interest to Barre because the
26 St. Paul street, Montpelier, his daugh- J shaft was cut from Barre granite by
Barre Young Man and Montpelier Young
Woman Married.
aboard the car may know how people feci
when they are about to have heart fail
ure, but passengers escaped injury and
the ear was not damaged.
The physician quickly absolved the car
operators from blame. He said his
through ts were straying to a patient
whom he was hurrying to see and that
he did not know his carriage was on the
tracks. The damaged vehicle was parked
on the lawn of ilia Church street school
while Dr. Goodrich, having procured an
other carriage, hastened to the bedside
o-f his patient.
last week and also of the Schwaben re
doubt in this region. In addition to the demonstrator, Vermont experiment sta
east between L Sara and Flers, the t ion; Miss Bessie M. Thaver. demonstra-
' troops of General Sir Douglas Haig have
pushed forward their positions. During
Saturday night and Sunday German
trenches near Morval and Clery fell into
the hands of the French in grenade fight
ing. Berlin reports, however, that attacks
by the British east of Thiepval and by
the French in the vicinity of Ranourt,
Courceletfe, Morval and Halle were re
pulsed. The activity around Halle may
indicate the commencement of an enten
te drive with Peronne as its objective.
A late dispatch says the left wing of
the British army between fhe Anere and
Somme rivers in France has advanced
on nearly a two-mile front from the east
of Eaucourt L.Abba ye to the Albert-Rap-aume
road, capturing the town of Eau
court L'Abbaye and titowing their line
to within about four miles of Bapaume
itself. In addition, the British line to
the east has been sent forward for good j
gains into the German front. Valuable!
work w as done by the new armored i
tractors in the fighting. In the Cham-
tor in home economics. University of
Vermont extension service; George ".
Perry, lecturer, ex-president Vermont
Horticultural society. Chester, Vt. ; E. L.
Were, Given Final Papers at Court Ses
sion in Montpelier.
At a session of United States district
court in Montpelier Saturday afternoon
with Judge llarland B. Ifowe of St.
Johnsbiiry presiding, final citizenship pa
pers were granted to the following appli
cants: Domcnico Camerucci, Montpelier,
Italy; Frank Whiting Jenne, Montpelier,
Canada; William Admar Wright, Barre,
New Brunswick; Alfred E. Parmenter,
Barre, Great Britain; Aulden Grearson,
Barre, New Brun-swiek; Adam Silver,
Barre, Scotland; William Henry Collings,
Barre, Great Britain; William Greig,
South Barre, Scotland; James Legert
wood Watson, Barre, Scotland; William'
Bedell, South Barre, Scotland; Duilio
Ciafiipi, Barre, Italy; Luigi Bottazzini,
Rsrm Ttnlv Roldnf.i k'nnllnl
Italy; Joseph Granger, Montpelier, Can- j J?01?0'' ,'y1tW,b
ada; Carletto Delia Santa, Waterbury, T f,ilr'' .',
Italy; Edward Docherty,
Scotland; Romollo Musetti,
Italy; Anton Obuhounki,
Russia.
iT. I
Montpelier.
Montpelier,
Montpelier,
Fifty-Three Persons Hurt at Bingham
ton, N. Y.
Binghamton, N. Y., Oct. 2. Fiftv
three persons were injured yesterday aft
ernoon when the floor of the First Pres
byterian church of Johnson City col
lated during the services being held in
connection with the laying of the corner
stone. Seven of this number are serious
ly hurt, but it is believed all will recov
er.
Two hundred and fifty persons were
hurled into the basement IS feet below
when the floor gave way and it was near
ly a half hour before all had been re
moved. The speakers were in their
chairs and the liand was playing the
opening number when the accident hap
pened. There was no warning, the slen
der timbers supporting the floor giving
way almost in an instant. Twelve doc
tors and three ambulances were used to
care for the injured.
The floor that collapsed was a tem
porary one constructed merely to care
for the dedication crowd. It was sup-
two-by-fours placed about 20
pastor of the church
ter. Miss Mildred Brooks, being married
to Francis Ahern, son of Mr. and Mrs.
James Ahern of 41 East street, Barre.
The ceremony was performed by Rev. F.
Barnby Leach, recbur of Christ church,
at 8 o'clock, in the presence of only im
mediate relatives and friends. The bride
wore a suit of white net and was un
attended. The room in which the cere
mony was performed was prettily dee
orated with autumn leaves, ferns, roses
and carnations.
Mr. and Mrs. Ahern will reside in
Barre, where the groom is employed by
the Ahern Machine Oo. The bride is well
known throughout the state, having been
stenographer in several county courts and
for two years was employed by John G.
Sargent of Ludlow, then attorney -gen
eral.
the firm of Presbrev-Convkendall Co. of
Barre. The dispatch reads as follows:
"Port Chester, N. Y., Sept. 28. Dam
age estimated at $10,000 was done this
afternoon when a huge granite monu
ment being set in place in the cemetery
of he Meriam Osborne Mem rial Home
in Harrison toppled over, it was sus
j is the result of a quarrel ove,
' 74 Brook street late Sundaj
afterir n and the violent use of bottlei
and chairs landed Pasquale Coia in tin
City hospital and Solomon Alverici in
cell at police headquarters. Coia is un
der arrest on a charge of shooting witl
intent to kill and during his period ol
convalescence at the hospital an officer in
constantly by his bedside. This morning
Alverici was arraigned on a breach of tin
peace charge, to which he pleaded not
guilty and a hearing was set for Thurs
day morning at !) o clock. Bail of $100 in
Alverici's case wa furnished.
Police headquarters got a hurrv-un
telephone call for a quarrel on Brook
street at 6 o'clock last night. Chief Sin
clair and Deputy Chief Gamble set out in
an automobile and as they swung intu
North Seminary street they glimpsed a
man hurrying over the brow of the hill
to the east. They gave chase and caught
Coia. Meanwhile Officers Dineen. Mur
ley and Henderson were investigating at
14i .North Seminary street, where the
gunplay is alleged to have been staged.
Coia was brought to the police station,
where Dr. W. D. Reid fixed him un anrt
sent him to the hospital. The middle
finger of Coin's left hand was nearly sev
ered by a piece of glass or an edge tool
ami blood was streaming from a savagn
looking wound on the scalp. Alverici
was uninjured.
Much of the investigation that is cal
culated to bring out the facts in the case
is still under way. Grand Juror William
Wishart kept the officers on hunt
last night and to-day every effort was
made to locate the eight or ten men who
were present during the card playing;
also the woman who answered Coia's
knock at the front door, 14S North Sem
inary street, and got her petticoats and
dress singed by a shot gun discharge for
her pains. - - .
Stories told by Alverici and his alleged
assailant. Coia. vary in many of the de
tails. It is said that the trouble started
upon Alverici's allegation that Coia had
concealed a card in his sleeve before the
shuffle. When Alverici. disgusted with
the tactics, pocketed his Horle and start
ed for the door, Coia intercepted him, it
is said. Alverici, the police claim.
grabbed a chair and continued to belay
Coia until he reached an outside door,
Then Alverici went home, home to US
Seminary street, north.
The next chapter, the police say, came
when Coia, still enraged over Alverici's
accusation, caught up a hunting bag
loaded with cartridges, took a shotgun
from the wall and left the house. He
made his presence known next at the
house where Alverici stays. A woman in
the house heard a knock at the door and
when she swung open the screen Coia is
alleged to have levelled the weapon at
someone inside. The woman screamed
pended in the air when a guide rope I and Coia, it is claimed, pulled the trigger
WITHAM SANDERS.
broke, cracking it beyond repair. Alex
ander Thompson & Sons, monument rais-
ers of Woodlawn, N. Y., had contracted
to set up the monument. lien the giant
piece of granite fell there was a warning
shout, and the workmen under it jumped
just in time to avoid being killed.
"The shaft, which is of Barre granite,
was brought to Harrison from Barre, Vt.
It required two flat cars to bring the
main part of the shaft, while the bHe
was so large that it had to be hauled
overland from the quarry."
Marriage at Congregational Parsonage
Followed By Auto Tour to Boston.
A quiet wedding was solemnized at the
Congregational parsonage Saturday even
ing, Sept. 30, at 8 o'clock by Rev. J. .
Harnett, when Minnie Madeline Sanders,
only daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Oliver
Sanders of Avers street, formerly of
Kings Valley, N. Y., was married to Per-
lev E. Witham, only son of Mr. and Mrs.
E. A. Witham of South Barre.
The bride and groom were unattended
FUNERAL HELD SUNDAY.
Services for Mrs. Francis Leith Were at
Her Home.
The funeral of Mrs. Francis Leith,
whose death occurred at her home on the
Merchant street extension Friday after
noon, was held at the h;mse Sunday aft
ernoon at 2 o'clock. Rev. Edgar Cross
land, pastor of the First Presbyterian
church, was the officiating clergyman and
the bearers were as follows: James Hen-
A hole of considerable dimensions was
bored ir the floor of the piazza, powder
singed the woman's skirts and vagrant
shota scattered in the kitchen. Coia
made off and was next seen when the
officers turned into Seminary street. A
later investigation disclosed the shotgun,
a double-barreled weapon, in the chicken
yard at Alverici's house. Alverici did
not protest his detention at police head
quarters and Coia appeared willing to ac
company the chief ami deputy uptown.
He was suffering from loss of blood and
for a time after his arrival at the hos
pital his condition was regarded as se
rious. Thysician-s attending the man said
that he could not leave the hospital until
to-morrow or Wednesday. WTien he is
released the officer in whose custody he
now remains will take him into Magis
trate Scott's court.
TO SUPREME COURT AGAIN.
13 KILLED IN DETROIT
And Many More Were Injured in Train
Trolley Smash.
Detroit, Mich.. Oct. 2. Thirteen per-
suns were Kincn ana more than a.i in
stated lust night that the responsibility
could be placed on no one since several
contractors had expressed their belief
that the floor was safe.
All of the injured are residents of this
citv.
and only immediate relatives witnessed j ry, Charles Cay, W. .1. Clapp, Robert
incrnns lecT.nrer. strip afrenr in rnarire nr ; . .
bovs and girls' club work. University of when a iw?, h t."U,,-V' ,'?e "
Vermont; F. H. Abbott, lecturer, Wash- a eng.ne pushing two ii ployed as a carpenter and painte
ington county agricultural agent Barre. ITi" " " 'T "T1 P "Tr - ""Z
-'Miur mjt( iVHllUlitlt I )V I ITm'V I TfSHIH, II" rPma n wu
The show is to be held under the auspices
of the Montpelier Board of Trade, which
offers f-VH) for premiums and other ex
penses, and individual premiums are of
fered by about a score of Vermont peo
ple. The officers of the New England Fmit
Show, Inc., are: President. J. Lewis
Ellsworth. Worcester, Mass.; vice-president.
Wilfred Wheeler, Concord, Mass.;
secretary, K Howard Brown. Marlboro,
Mass.; treasurer, A. Warren Patch, Bos
ton, Mass.; state vice-presidents Wil
son 1L Conant. Buckfield, Me,; diaries S.
Barker, Exeter. N. IL; George D, Aiken,
Putney. Vt.; F. C. Scars. Amherst.
Mass.; R. M. Bowen, Button woods, R. I.;
Charles I Oold. West Cornwall. Conn.
ragne region the Germans, says Paris, The special committee in charge is Oeorge
attempted to surprise attacks against D. Aiken. Putney; E. H. Wot. Dorset;
th French, but both of them failed. 'M. B. Cummings. Burlington; J. B. Estee
Jn Galici the Russian have started and IL J. Conant, Montpelier.
street on the east side. There were mor.
than 00 persons in the street car. manv
of them returning from the theatres.
The street car wa.s struck almost in
the center, the impact pushing it from
the tracks and sliding it alongside the
freight cars.
Most of the dead were killed by jump
ing from the car and falling under the
wheels of the still moving freight cars.
Ambulances from every hospital in De
troit were ru-hed to the scene. At mid
night one hospital alone reported that
IS injured and one dead had been taken
there.
Last night's accident is th third of a
similar nsture here in the last year and
the second to occur at the Forest avenue
croj.su g.
The railroad traks at Dcpiinder street
are uc bv the Grand Trunk and De
troit Terminal Railroad companies.
TALK OF THE TOWN
Mrs. J. A. Rogers and son, Bernie. left
Saturday noon Vr Springfield, where
they will join Mr. Rogers, who has been
g
r.
d
h
them a few days.
Barre school children won 00 prizes in
the exhibition held in Montpelier city
hall Friday and Saturday under the di
rection of the Washington Oountv School
the ceremony. The bride wore a brown
traveling suit, with hat to match. The
bride and groom were the recipients of
many beautiful gifts, including linen and
silver. The groom is a graduate of Mont
pelier seminary in the class of 1010.
The couple left by automobile for Bos
ton and vicinity. On their return they
will reside in South Barre.
SHEA PITKIN.
Knox, John Stewart and Henry 1'etrie,
There were numerous floral tributes. In
terment was made in Hope cemetery.
STREET RAILWAY THRIVING.
Increased Gross Earnings for Fiscal Year
Ending Sept. 30.
Michael Good, Losing Suit Brought By
Henry Russ, WiU Take It Up.
The grand jury completed its sessions
Saturday noon and reported to Judge
Frank L. Fish the finding of three true
bills, the identity of the persons against
whom the indictments were made, not
being disclosed.
In the case of Henrv Russ v. Michael
Good, trespass on the person, a verdict of
2S2 for the plaintiff was returned bv the
jury Saturday afternoon. At a previous
i reports an increase ot per cent in
Rarre Youn Peoole United in Marriaee 'P1"0 income and an increase of 53 per
ror tne neai year enuea -"'" ' ' ,1"' i trial the defendant was given the ver
.Mirnipeiier a iarre mii i ix .u.-. y. ;(1j,.t- tm. plaintiff a
court and bein;
with the above
appealing to supreme
granted another trial
result. The defendant
Miss Lena
To-day.
F. Pitkin of
cent m net available tor stock. I his is ; ,.:,,.,. str;kjniT tj11s but claimed that
I equivalent to M per cent earned on Sl.-ii,. ,, a nrmne.l to do so hv the at.ti-
37 Jefferson j ."lO.iHKi preferred stock or the full (J per
street and frank J. She of 1 ( hurch Vent dividends and J.2 per cent on
street were quietly married this morning i$I.iHm.i(to common.- From Banker
at St. Monicas cnun-n nv i-iev. fr. ivoy. ri radcsinan. Sept. .". i:'it.
The bride was attended by her sister.
Mis Bessie E. Pitkin of Provid-nce, K. GOOD RACES EXPECTED.
I., who acted as bridesmaid. The groom i
was attended oy nis Drotner, .lonn i-'And Larce Crowd Looked for at
Superintendents' association and carried J shea of Boston. The couple left shortly
home the silver cup offered bv the Mont
pclier Bop.rd of Trade for the city or
town winning most points. Montpelier
did not compete for the cup this year lie
cause Montpelier persons acted as judges,
but wilf compete in the exhibitions to l
held each year. The cup becomes the
property of the city or town winning
three times. The exhibits from Barre
were mostly from children in the grade.
although a few were from the high school
and from bov scout organizations. The
after the ceremony for a trip to Boston
and on their return will reside at 1
Church street.
BYLOW HARVEY.
At Congregational Parsonage Marriage
Took Place Saturday Evening.
Mir-s Gladva Harvey and Vernon By-
tb
and
the
Washington Fair.
The directors of the Washington fair,
which opens to-d;iy ami will continue
through Tuesday and Wednesday, an
nounce that the races this ve:ir will he
the best ever held there, as a large strinc
tudc adopted by the plaintiff and intro
duced evidence to follow up the claim
that he struck the plaintiff only once and
immediately walked away. R. A. Hoar
and A. G. Fay appeared for the plaintiff
and S. IIol!iter Jackson and John W.
Gordon represented the defendant.
Defendant Good announced to-day that
he will take the ca?e to supreme court.
BOARD OF TRADE RUN.
I
low. both of Barre, were united in mar
rinsre Saturday evening at 7:30 o'clock at Wednesday at 1:30 a 2:40. a 2:20 and: run
exhibits from Barre numbered 132. The ! the Congregational parsonage. Rev. J. W. j free-for-all classes are on the program, be secured ot
!) prizes awarded Barre were diided ns'Barnctt being the officiating clergyman, i H. A. Kngg has been engaged as Mfrt.r
follows: First. 34: second. 2S: third 2ii: 'The groom is employed as a lumper, and 'and "Herb'' sav "the races will Mart 'U
Will Have Washington Fair Grounds at
Tleetinatinn Tudiv.
of horses are entered. Children will t ;
allowed on the fairgrounds. A large at- J The Barre Board of Trade will hold a
tendance is looked for. jrun to Washington fair Tuesday, Oct
On Tuesday a 3:rHl-minute and a 2:22 '.. bating the city square at 1 p. m
las w ill be calb-d at 1 o'clock sharp. ; Please turn out and make this a good
l H Kets to ine lairgrounos may
. G. Reynolds or H. A
I'iulos. I.e srre and have a rVard ot
trade banner on lour car. Select voui
fourth, 8.
they w ill make their Lome in fiaxre, lime and no . tedious scoring,.''
own party, till up vuiir car and join us
