HOME
EDITION
lyKATHKK forecast for Kansas
Fair tonight ami Thursday; con
( ,iiini moderate temperatures.
HOME EDITION
TOPEKA, KANSAS, WEDNESDAY EVENING, FEBRUARY 16, 1916 TEN PAGES
THIS EDITION 2 CENTS
41 II"
$4,000,000
munitions
burned at
N. OQCK
Three Large Ships, 25 Small
Craft, 900 Foot Pier.
lVere Being Loaded IVith War
Supplies for Russia.
AMERICAN CLUB HOWIE BURNS
Toronto Structure Fired by For
eign Enemy.
Believe Act Revenge for Tro
Ally Sympathy.
Xrw York. Fob. IB. The steam
ships Bolton I'ustlo and Pacific ami a
Oii-loot pier hriniigiiis o the .Now
York Dock company lit the foot of
Pioneer street, Hrooklyll. were de
stroyed early today hy the most dis
astrous lire on the Brooklyn water
front in years. Another steamer, the
ralla.la. wits clumiigcil. about 25
scows and lighter were partly or
wholly hurncil. and upwards of forty
of the coolies from the Bolton Castle
and l'milie were missing after the
fire. The loss Is estimated at con
siderably more Hum $1.1)011.01)0.
The origin of the fire is unknown
but suspicions that it "was incendiary
were aroused because of the fact that
some of the steainer3 were loading
with war munitionH, some of which
was intended for shipment to the Rus
sian government. A watchman aboard
the Bolton Castle discovered that the
buildings on the pier were on fire
Bonn after 1 o'clock this morning. The
blaze spread so rapidly that the offi
cers anil crews of the steamers and
lighters lying at the pier after a vain
effort to prevent the spread of the
flames to their vessels were compelled
eitner to leap overboard or to aafetv
aboard othr lighters or tugs which
hastened to the rescue.
Many Forced to Leap.
The three steamers lying at the pier
were surrounded hy a fleet of about
fiftv ligntirs and barges on each of
which was one man or more. On some,
of the barges were the wives and
families of the captains Some of them
were compelled to jump overboard to
escape the swift on rush of the flames.
Firemen and policemen dragged many
of them out of the water to adjoining
piers and others were rescued by tug
boats or fireboats.
The Bolton Castle wa3 loading with
gasoline for Itus-ia and this fed the
blize The boilers of both the Bolton
Castle and the Pacific blew up when
the fire was at its height, completing
the work of destruction. Several barges
loaded with gasoline lying near the
steamers were destroyed. The Bolton
Ca.'.tle, a British vessel of 3.tS'J tons
arrived heie Feb. 6, from Singapore,
Port Natal and St. Lucia. The Pa
cific of 2.612 tons arrived from Hull.
Kngland. yesterday. Both belong to
the Castle line. The burned pier was
leased to Barber & Company, steam
Viir rtt-pTits. and is believed to have
been filled with merchandise including
war munitions.
Hix hours after the fire started the
police said they had accounted for ail
but two of the missing persons. It
was then believed that the loss of life
would not exceed that number.
One Bead in Club Fire.
Toronto. Feb. 16. One man was
killed and two others were injured in
a fire which early today wrecked the
American club, a six-story structure.
Several explosions were heard while
the fire was burning, but according to
the police, there were no detonations
before the flames were discovered. I'n
confirmed reports were that the blaze
was the result of an alien miiltary plot,
the American club having recently
been the scene of demonstration in
favor of the entente allies.
P. I. Hairston, formerly of Dallas,
Texas, a mining broker with offices
here, was found suffocated Just inside
a window on the third floor. Edward
Johnston, a night watchman, of the
Mechanics bank next door to the
American club, was dangerously in
jured, and Capt. Asa Minard, of the
Ninety-seventh battalion of the Ameri
can legion, was slightly burned while
making his escape.
The building, an imposing six story
structure, was valued at $300,000 and
with its contents is a total loss, im
mediately after the explosions the
roof of the building fell in and flames
burst from the windows on all six
floors.
May Be Dead in Ruins.
A man found in the debris with his
skull fractured was identified as the
club caretaker. It was reported that
three members of his family had been
unable to escape from the building
At dawn the ruins were still burning
and the firemen were unable to ascer
tain whether they contained any
bodies. Captain Asa Minard of the Ameri
can legion was so badly injured that
he may not recover. He was sleep
ing on the top floor when he was
aroused by the first explosion. He
had slid half wa., jdown a rope fast
ened to the window sill when a second
explosion forced him to let go his
hold and drop to the sidewalk.
Several other officers of the Ameri
can leerion were sleeping in the build ing
when the fire broke out but it is
jbelieved that all managed to escape
by the rear doors and windows. Two
employees of the club were slightly
burned.
The club building was formerly oc
cupied by the T'nion bank. It stood
at Nos. 17 and 19 Wellington street
West. The building was taken over
and remodeled when the American
club was organized four years ago.
Bin X. Y. Di'iiiiKTnt Delegation.
St. Louis. Feb. 18. Xorman E.
Mack. Democratic national commit
teeman from New York today as'-'ed
a down town hotel here to reserve
three floors containing 69 rooms, for
delegations from New York.
Boys Burn Up
$24,000 School
For a Bonfire
Creston, Iowa. Feb. 16. Two
boys. John Malone. 15, and Fred
Alley. 8, when arrested last night
while attempting to set fire to
St. Malachy's parochial school
here, confessed to starting the
conflagration which destroyed the
$24,000 public school building on
the nieht of Feb. 8. That they
wanted to see the fire burn was
the only reason given.
CITYljRTSWEPT
Business District of Fall River,
Mass., Wiped Out.
Loss on Score Buildings Esti
mated at $2,000,000.
STARTS IN DEPARTMENT STORE
Guests of Burning Hotel Flee
Down Fire Escapes.
Three Cities Send Fire Appara
tus to Doomed Town.
Fair River, Mass.. Feb. 16. Fire
which swept a section of the business
district early today caused a $2,000,
000 loss, according to estimates. A
score of buildings including an apart
ment hotel and several large retail
stores were destroyed and many
others were damaged. There was no
loss of life.
Firemen kept the flames from
spreading to a congested tenement
house district. Poiice and firemen
are unable to explain the probable
origin of the fire. It started in the
basement of the four-story brick
building at the corner of South Main
and Spring streets occupied by the
department store of the Steiger com
pany. When the fire had spread to
adjoining buildings and across South
Main street, help was called from
New Bedford, Taunton and Newport,
R. I.
Arouse Hotel Guests.
Before the out-of-town fire appara
tus arrived the flames had made such
a start that it was impossible to stop
their progress southward along .Main
street until they had reached Colum
bia street.- There-the Edwards build
ing served as an effective check.
The Lenox hotel, across the street
from the Steiger store was one of the
first buildings in the path of the
flames. The guests were hastily
roused and made their way out by the
fire escapes. The front of the hotel
was then ablaze.
The fire was the most disastrous in
the history of the city. The majority
of the structures burned were con
structed of brick, three or four
stories in height. The heaviest indi
vidual loss was $500,000, which was
suffered by the Steiger company.
WOMAN PEIUSHKS IX HRE.
Flames in Midland, Mich. Io $150.
000 Damage
Midland, Mich., Feb. 16. Miss
Delia Taylor, a milliner, perished in a
fire which destroyed four buildings
here today, with a loss of $150,000.
FIND 21 BODIES
Last Six Victims Were Recov
ered Early Today.
Mine Disaster Worst in History
of Butte.
Butte. Feb. 1 6. Twenty-one men
were victims of Butte's worst mining
disaster which resulted from the firo
which broke out in the airshaft on the
1.200 foot level of the Pennsylvania
mine here Monday night.
This developed at 2 o'clock this
morning when the bodies of the last
six to be accounted for were found by
a crew of nine helmet men at the foot
of the man-way on the 100 foot level
of the mine, about 1,000 feet from the
station.
Wire Oddities
as Told by the
Day Telegraph
Washington, D. C, Feb. 16. Am
bassador von Bernstorff drives his
own gasoline roadster made-in-Amer-
lca and drives it like the wind.
Minneapolis, Feb. 16. Of the 600
jitney buses operating here last fall,
only 64 were loft today.
Grand Forks, N. D.f Feb. 16. North
Dakota newspaper editors have
formed a mutual co-operative fire in
surance company, for the protection
of their plants.
Fort Dodge, la., Feb. 16. Clara
Gerd Posendahl, young farmer who is
six feet and eight inches tall and
weighs 290 pounds, is married to a
woman over six feet tall.
Greenford, Middlesex, Eng., Feb. 16.
A lc-tter received by Alderman Per
kin from his son. Lieutenant Parkin,
states that on arriving at Gibraltar
he was given a mount which seemed
strangely familiar. Investigation
proved that it was a horse off the
Perkin farm which the young officer
himself had broken before the war.
Washington, Feb. 16. Chairman
Flood of the house foreign affairs j
committee :s one of congress cham-
pion pedestrians. He walks two miles j
to the capitol every day and seldom j
arrives at nis orrice later than 9
o'clock.
Washington, D. C, Feb. 16 Repre
sentative 'Bill" Vare, millionaire
Philadelphia contractor and Republi-
j can political leader, is the Beau
j Brummel of the house.
RAILROADS ASK
HIGHER RATE ON
KANSAS FREIGHT
Seven in State Unite in Appli
cation to P. U. C.
Want a 20 Per Cent Advance on
' Intrastate Freight.
ARE LOSING MONEY, THEY SAY
Expenses Have Steadily In
creased for Years Past.
Hampered by Regulation, Su
pervision and Control.
Seven Kansas railroads today joined
in an application before the public
utilities commission for a twenty per
cent increase in intrastate freight
rates. Applications for advanced
fre'ght rates were urged in petitions
filed by the Santa Fe, Rock Island.
Union Pacific, Missouri Pacific. M., K.
& T., 'Frisco, and St. Joseph & Grand
Island railroads. Existing rates are
declared confiscatory by the railroads
in view of regulation, supervision and
control of public utilities.
Not since the filing of the passenger
rate case before the state utilities com
mission in November, 1914, have Kan
sas railroads joined in such drastic de
mands for relief. Heavy losses under
existing intrastate freight rates are
charged by the roads affected by the
application. In addition to the twenty
per cent increase sought m ail classi
fications of freight rates, the roads ask
further increases in petroleum, crude
oil and slack coal rates.
No effort will be made by the seven
Kansas roads at this time to change
thei nterstate freight rates. The fight
will be directed against rates now ex
isting between points in Kansas. All
classifications p.nd commodities are af
fected by the sweeping petition and
the new rate means an increase of
millions of dollars annually in the rev
enues of the railroads. In the case of
the Santa Fe which claims losses on
intrastate freight business for a period
of three years the new rate would
mean an increase of two-thirds of a
million dollars annually. This bow
ing is based on an -exhibit attached to
the petition and filed with the state
commission.
Reasonableness Involved.
Much of the argument foran in
(Contimied on Page 2.)
GET BERLIN NOTE
Last Say in Lusitania Affair
Delivered Today.
Believe Understanding Has
Been Reached Again.
Washington, Feb. 16. Count von
Bernstorff. the German ambassador,
today presented to Secretary Lansing
the latest draft of the Lusitania agree
ment embodying the changes suggest
ed by the American government and
also one change suggested by Berlin.
The indications were that the agree
ment in its present form probably
would be acceptable to the United
States.
TO DESTROY CLEW
Fire Laboratory Where Crones
Poison Analyzed.
Discover Incendiary Flames in
Chicago City Hall.
Chicago, Feb. 16. A mysterious
fire, evidently of incendiary origin, was
discovered early today in the city hall,
near the chemical laboratory in which
poisons found in the room of Jean
Crones, alleged principal in the an
archist soup plot, are bening analyzed.
A quart bottle containing oil was
found in the cloak room on the
seventh floor of the building, near the
laboratory. Flames were licking their
way up the walls of the cloak room
when discovered by Dr. R. M. Phillips.
on duty in the chemical laboratory in
the early morning.
The blaze was checked by firemen
with small loss.
Health Commissioner Robertson
said the fire was admittedly strange,
considering the fact that the labora
tory was engaged in examining the
poisons found in Crones's room.
"It looks very funny," he said.
A floor map of the city hall was
found, police said, among the papers
in Crones's room, together with floor
plots of the federal building and sev
eral skyscrapers.
DESERTS WHITE HOUSE
TUBS; WASH LADY ELOPES
Washington, Feb. 16. Romance
has again blossomed forth in the
White House. This time Lavina
Gibson, one of the negro laun
dresses at the mansion, played the
principal role. Saturday ahe left
her tub and eloped. Having im
bibed the atmosphere of prepared
ness, she married a soldier, John
Mullen, negro infantryman. To
day Lavina was back at her tub.
Mother-In-Law,
60, Slayer, She
Asks New Trial
Winterset. Iowa, Feb. 16.
Proceedings for a new trial or an
appeal will be taken at once by
counsel for Mrs. Ida Meyers 60,
years old, who was convicted of
second degree murder on a charge
of complicity in the murder of her
daughter-in-law last July. Dis
trict Judge Applegate is expected
to pass sentence on Mrs. Meyer
next week. She is at liberty on
$30,000 bond.
GIRLS INTOPEKA!
Hello Lassies Are in Conven
tion Here Today.
"Love Us 'Cause AVe Xever
Tell," Declares One.
SENATOR JOSEPH ON MUTUALS
Fiery Whitewater
DemOCrat
Spoke to First Meeting.
i Protests 'and appeals are being sent
Hair Ttnisinn- Initiation at Com-!10 the state department. Immediate
Jiair liaising lnuianou ai .uiu and erfective actlon i8 demanded.
.... Tnnii.li The extent of the seizures cannot
mercial Club lonight. ibe cjmputed as the British censor
I does not tell what securities he has
taken.
Telephone girls, those girls with , An the intorrnation received hy
your reputation in their hands, began i American bankers whose mail has
an invasion of Topeka this morning j been opened and interfered with is
to be present at the operators; school. jeWtlS, eopsT"6"
which opens at 3 o clock this arter- ,.A part of the securities originally
noon and will be conducted by Mrs,. . contained in this packet is detained
Alice Douglas, chief operator at Em- j by his Britannic majesty's government
.... . , (for adludication in a prize court on
poria. and H. E. Gwillim, traffic man- I srund of enemy origin-
ager. Kansas City. ljCft in thG iark.
Mrs. Douglas arrived bright and Th-S Ieaves tne bankers here corn
early and announced that politeness pletelv in tne dark. Endless con
would be the keynote of her address it . fusiorii thev declare, must result.
the opening of "school this afternoon.
No matter what the trying conditions
may be, politeness should be insisted
upon by telephone managers ana
maintained by the girls.
"A tactful answer frequently will
turn an angry person into an enthusi
astic booster," said Mrs. Douglas this
morning.
Other telephone girls who arrived
this morning talked but refused
to be quoted. They include Sadio
Long, Clay Center; Hope Scott and
Mabel Gibson, Coffey County Tele
phone company; Mrs. Charles E. Rice,
Riley Rural Telephone company, ant
Bessie Bair. chief -operator at Wr
mego. - - - -
"Your paper said the other day that"
a 'woman loves a mason 'cause a Ma
son never tells, ' said one ofhe girls
this morning. "Then why shouldn't
all men love the telephone girls we
never tell and goodness knows we
have a whole lot more to tell than any
old Mason.
"It is the rural telephone girl who
knows whom the banker calls besides
his wife, whom the banker's wife calls
beside her husband and it is mighty
seldom you ever hear of anything
leaking from a telephone office. Of
(Continued onPage 2.)
DANIELSJS DEAD
"Was Lieutenant Goyernor Dur
ing Lewellyn Administration.
Served as Major General
Kansas National Guard.
of
Oklahoma City, Feb. 16. General
Percy Daniels, former lieutenant gov
ernor of Kansas and a veteran of the
Civil war. died last night at Bethany,
a suburb, aged 75 years.
Percy Daniels was active in state
and Third district politics during the
reign of Populism in Kansas. He was
elected lieutenant governor under the
Lorenzo D. Lewelling administration
in 1892, and served during the senate
sessions of 18S3-95. He was an old
soldier and active in affairs of the
Kansas G. A. R. He served as briga
dier general and major general of the
Kansas National Guards. His home
was in Girard, Crawford county.
U-UMBORQUITSSjss-sap
III Health Compels George T. Marye
to Kesign Petrograd Job.
Petrograd, Feb. 16. (via London).
George T. Marye, the American am
bassador, has resigned, giving ill
health as his reason. He has not been
advised of the acceptance of his res
ignation by the state department. Mr.
Marye expressed a desire to be re
lieved as early as possible.
The foregoing confirms the report
from Washington yesterday that Mr.
Marye had resigned. His secretary.
Ray Baker, saw Secretary Lansing
yesterday and was understood to have
presented the ambassador's resigna
tion. Mr. Marye was appointed to Russia
in July, 1914.
MORE MEN IN STATE
Males Outnumber Females in Kansas.
Xpw Census Shows.
Men in Kansas outnumber the wo
men, according to a report by J. C.
Mohler, secretary of the state board l
of agriculture. The record under the
Mohler report Is 854,697 men and 813,- ;
231 women. j
In 101 of the 105 counties of the i
state the number of males exceeds
! the female population. Douglas, :
! Lyon, Sedgwick and Shawnee counties
' report more females than males. In 1
I Shawnee county the majority of fe
males is greater than in any county
in the state. Shawnet county returns
show 32,800 females and 31,861 ,
j male?-
BRITISH SEIZE
U. S. SECURITIES
ON HIGH SEAS
American Financiers Enraged
by Jew Money Blockade.
Millions Taken From Ships and
.... Sent to Prize Courts.
WASHINGTON AID IS SOUGHT
Bankers Ask U. S. Government
to Take Immediate Action.
Opening Mails on Neutral Ships
Termed "an Outrage."
(BY B. C. I-'ORBRS.)
New York, Feb. 16. The British
government has seized millions of ilol-
iflars of American securities dispatched
ffrom Holland to the United States.
! American financiers are incensed.
, It has Deen common knowledge that
gecuritjes bearing the German stamp
have been coming upon the New Yort
market from time to time ever since
the war began. These securities have
usually come through Amsterdam and
have been forwarded on Dutch steam
ers. "To seize first class American mail
Consigned from one neutral port to
another is an outrage," angrily pro
tested one international banker today.
The action of the British govern-
(Con tinned on Page
2.)
OH, FORAMQVIE!
Regular Film Chase Down
Sixth Street Today.
Insane Man, Barefooted,
caped From Asylum.
Es-
This morning at the state hospital,
John Haynes, who officials say is at
the asylum because he takes sudden
notions, suddenly found himself ob-
i sessed with the. idea to leave and run
a footrace with himself. More than
that, Haynes left. While he and other
inmates were sitting down to the
breakfast table he bolted out the door
before attendants could stop him.
When he had put probably a hundred
yards between himself and the build
ing two attendants started in pursuit
Looking around, Haynes saw them
coming. Figuring that he could run
faster if he took his shoes off, the
escape suddenly sat down, pulled off
his footwear and taking a shoe in each
hand startled residents on West Sixth
avenue by fairly "burning the dust"
toward Kansas avenue. A barefoot
man with a shoe in each hand, racing
over an ice cold pavement was some
thing out of the ordinary and West
Sixth turned out in force to witness
the event.
Then the telephone at the police sta
tion rang. "An escape is coming your
way! Stop him!" roared a voice over
the wire. Motorcycle Policeman Welch
and Detective Summers ran out the
Fifth street door and beheld Haynes,
who had a moment before changed
streets during his traveling, tearing
past the court house. The man was
! headed off and captured in the alley
behind the police station by the two
! officers and was later returned to the
hospital.
Miami County Burglar Committed Sui
cide at Kansas Penitentiary.
Lansing, Kan., Feb. 16. John M.
Kilgore, serving a term in the state
prison here for attempted burglary,
in Miami county, committed suicide
today.
Kilgore tied one end of his belt to
the top of his cell house door, wrapped
the other end around his neck and
jumped from a stool upon which ho
was standing.
APPLY WN D0GTR1NT
TO MEDICAL STUDENTS
Minneapolis, Feb. 16. Students of
the medical school and law depart
ment of the University of Minnesota
are to be vaccinated because a student
was found to be suffering from small
pox. The students will be treated at
a vaccination clinic at once.
FRENCH WILL PAY FOR
ZEPPELIN RAID LOSSF
Paris, Feb. 16. The French and
British ministers to Greece have
given assurances to tne Greek
government tnat the allies will pay
indemnity to all merchants and
private individuals who suffered
damage from the recent Zeppelin
raid on Saloniki, a Havas dispatch
from Athens says.
LIFE OF CHICAGO PRELATE AND GUESTS
ENDANGERED WHEN CHEF POISONS SOU!
jf - lis. V.
. 1
i " X V I
I'? t" -- r - Jt i
Archbishop Mundelein, photographed in Chicago on day of poisoning.
i A nation-wide search is in progress for Jean Crones, alleged anarchist
Wio is believed to have attempted the life of Archbishop George W.
Mundelein and 200 of his distinguished guests at a banquet in Chicago.
Poison was put in the soup and scores of the guests were made danger
ously ill. Crones was assistant chef at the banquet and disappeared im
mediately after the poisoning.
FOOD PRICES UP
High Price of LiVing Hits War
, .Nations Hard.
Raise 47 in Britain; 83 in
Berlin; 113 in Vienna.
PUT NEW BAN ON LUXURIES
Royal Edict Forbidding Imports
Hits U. S. Trade.
Bars Tobacco Except Under
License; Also Magazines.
London, Feb. 16. According to
statistics published today by the Brit
ish board of trade the retail prices of
food in the United Kingdom advanced
on the average of about 1 per cent
January. Flour and bread in
creased in price about six per cent. In
household expenditure the average in
crease in retail prices of food since
the beginning of the war has been 47
per cent. The board of trade states
that in Berlin the general level of
prices of the more important articles
of food was 83.4 per cent above that
of July. 1914. In Vienna, it is de
clared, the general levy of food prices
was 112.9 per cent higher than that o'
July, 1914.
' .In Kffeot March 1.
London, Feb. 16. In the opinion of
American importers here the royal
proclamation of yesterday forbidding
importation after March 1 of certain
commodities, including tobacco, fur
niture woods, wall paper and wood
pulp, would prove disastrous to Amer
ican traders if it were not for the sav
ing clause which permits the bringing
in of these articles under licenses
from the board of trade. American
importers do a large business in these
commodities.
Owing to the provision for trading
under licenses, it is believed the chief
effect of the order will be to give the
British government greater control
fContinued from Page Two.
CALL OF "COLORS"
Topeka Frenchman Rushes
Away to Join Army.
Asks Catholic Church to Speed
Him on Way.
The bells of the Church of the As
sumption were just ringing midnight,
when Father Nelligan, who stays at
the parish house, was awakened by a
frenzied knocking at the door. Inves
tigation proved the cause to be a wild
eyed man who announced his intention
of joining the French army and he
wished Father Mclnerney to speed
him on his way. It took considerable
persuasion to induce him to seek the
police station as the proper French
recruiting point- The police officers
referred him back to the Provident
association, where he had come frorn
in th4; first place.
He stayed there all night but Tues
day morning set out for Europe and
; nothing has been seen of him since,
j The man was a waiter in a lower Kan-
sas avenue restaurant.
HERE'S GOOD PLAN
ling the year for the purpose of riedi-
tt , . ' ' ''. lf eating halls or laying cornerstones
Lse rair Grounds for FUDlIC.of Masonic temples, churches, echool
. 4 j houses, court houses and other public
I arK 1 nil JraStman. buildings. The grand master's addrew
. . . 1 included a fuH report concerning the
- ! Masonic' home at Wichita,- 1n which
State Fair Secretary Offers : there is now a membership of 23 men,
j 20 women, f.O boys and 2u girls.
Popular Suggestion. i in Service IS Years.
j The children of the home are given
. , ia thorough education before they ar-
FVPRY nflVnVTnRF K flFFFRFH rive at an age when they become de
Lf LIU ftUIHillftUL 10 Ul I LI1LU pendent upon themselves. The report
I also showed that owing to impaired
, , . fc j, t, . ! health, the matron and superintend-
Miade- Open Npace IOr hpOrtS , ent, Mr. and Mrs. James Hnedden
and Ideal Location.
"Constant Use of Grounds
Would Popularize Them.
An eichtv-acre nlavsrround with
baseball grounds, tennis courts, chil- ! held in each of these districts once a
dren's playgrounds, a picnic grove and year for the purpose of exemplifying
other features that will make the fair t the work and instructing officers 0
grounds of benefit to the public all the j the lodges.
year instead of only at fair time and Remember K. T. Carr. s
a part of the park system is the plan Among the important deaths r
that has been suggested by Phil Kast-icorded during the last year was that
man, secretary of the fair association, or Krasmus T. Carr of Leavenworth
and that is meeting with approval the oldest Kansas made Mason and
irom tnose wno nave ueen ioiu ji ine
tentative plan.
The fair grounds are accessible to a !
large part of the population of the ;
city. The. open grounds present an
ideal opportunity for the arangement j
of grounds for out door games, for ,
which open spaces are necessary. ;
There are clumps of trees that can ;
serve as shady nooks for children's '
playgrounds. South of the Shunga- i
nunga creek is a beautifully wooded
spot that can be made into an ideal
grove for picnics. The quarter stretch
win proviae space enougn ror a loot- ;
ball and baseball field. The track is j
exactly what is needed for the hold- j
ing of the city and county track meets, i
Public comfort stations are already on j
the grounds.
Won't Interfere With Fair.
"The fair grounds can be made into
(Continued on Psgo 2.1
WARMEST OF MONTH
; afternoon.
' With the election of new officers ont
The Temperature Did Not Go Below of the way this morning, the visiting
KTminir Ijist Niirht ! pharmacists returned again to the dl.
rWCjingMst Aignt. cussion of the problems that they fao
'. jn their daily business.
Last night was the warmest night j Phases of the business that are b
of this month, the lowest temperature ing discussed at today's session are
being normal for the last of March. I the candy department; the toilet good
The reading of 33 degrees is 13 de- department; leather goods; unusual
fcrees above normal for this date and J side lines and cigars.
makes this the first night in several Special attention is being given ty
days when the mercury stayed above j delegates to a discussion of special
The freezing noint. f'ontinued warm cnlp. nrA rpnpra 1 AdvHi.)nv
! weather is the prospect for tomorrow,
ine wind is in tne west. itoday following the reading of paper
The forecast calls for fair weather by R. J. Leatherberry of Emporia, see
tonight and Thursday; continued mod- jretary of the association of Rexall
erate temperatures. The prediction is : druggists, and James McFarland of
that tne mercury will not go below; the Tully-McFarland IJrug company,
freezing tonight. Temperatures of not jMr. Leatherberry will speak on adver
below 30 degrees are indicated by the ; tising. McFarland will discuss fe.
shippers' forecast for 36 hour ship- jtures of special sales.
ments in all directions.
The time of the year is not yet past
when the temperature may go below ' soclation prepare reports for their de
zero, as the lowest on re rd for this ! partments which are read hy the
date is 9 degrees below. This reading j chairmen and preface the various dis
occurred in 1903. The highest on rec- i cussions that In the main are the rea-
ord ia 68 degrees, established in 1890.
The Kaw lver regained the r'ge if
.8 fe last night, having risen tl.ree- !
tenths of a foot since Tuesday morn
ing ler goods; W. A. Coleman, Fredoni,
Temperatures today averaged 21 de- 1 unusual side lines; R. J. leatherberry
grees above normal. The wind blew ! Emporia, general advertising; flar
at the rate of 4 mileB an hour from ! ence F. Farnsworth, Hoisington,
the west. Following are hourly tern-; candy; R. Hulburd. Wamego. ei
perature readings for today furnished ' gars and games; McFarland, Topeka,
by tne weatner oureau:
7 o'clock 36
11 o'clock 4S
8 o'clock ..... 36
9 o'clock 42
10 o'clock. .... 47
VI o'clock . .
. .65
1 o'clock 53
2 o'clock 61
A BUILDING FOR
TOPEKA BROUGHT
UP BYMASONS
Recommendations for Library
for Secretary Wilson.
Grand Master Burdick Urges
Larger Structure.
MEMBERSHIP OF OVER 44,000
Report Shows 3,000 Members
Added in Year.
Regular Election of Grand Offi
cers Tomorrow.
Recommendations that a Masonic
library be erected at Eighth and Har
rison streets, Topeka, that will stand
for years a suitable monument to the
great body in Kansas it represents
were made this morning at Represen
tative hall by William L. Burdick of
Lawrence, grand master, in his ad
dress at the sixtieth annual communi
cation of the Grand Lodwe of Ancient.
Free and Accepted Masons Briefly,
Grand Master Burdick told of a $5tf,-
000 appropriation made for the erec
i tion of a library and of subsequent ac
tion taken by the lodge in postponing
j actual work on a new building until
jit was decided definitely that a laneer
land more magniiicent building is not
i needed.
Today, the grand master urged th
j erection of a much larger building. A
i special order made this morning will
bring the matter before the orand
Lodge tomorrow morning when it is
expected definite action will be taken.
Membership of 41,052.
(slowing reports of conditions exist
ing in Kansas Masonry during the last
year were read by Grand Master Bur
dick, Albert K. Wilson, grand secre
tary, and William Frank Marsh, Law
rence, grand treasurer. The reports
showed that the membership in the
, 400 lodges in this state is 44.052. Dur
i ing the last year almost 3,000 rnem
j bers were added to the roll.
; There were eight special communi
i cations held in the Grand Lodge dui-
after fifteen years of faithful service,
were obliged to reMgn, and their places
were filled by Mr. and Mrs. Daniel P.
Burdick of Lawrence.
Continuing, it was pointed out that
there are sixty-three Masonic districts
in the state, and for each district u.
district deputy grand master is chosei
to serve during the term of the pre-
i sioing grana master. a meeting in
(Continued on Page 2.
DAILY PR0BLEMS
Rexall Krufrffists Get to Busi
ness of Talking Shop.
1 ,
:
Subjects of Special Sales and
Advertising Taken I'p.
Following a banquet which will h
held tonight in the Pelletier Tea room.
Hexall druggists who have been at
tending sessions of the convention that
(opened Tuesday morning In the Com'
'mercial club rooms, will return td
; their homes. The last business e
ision of the meeting will close late thia
subjects will he thoroughly discussed
Report of C om-Tilttoes.
i Standing committees of the state aa-
sons for holding the meeting. Chair-
I men of committees that will report to
day are: Neilson of Concordia, toilet
- i KOods; C. E. Bartlett, Columbus, learn
! special sriies. .
nlsMiiKinn nf A I'll tr ,! i.t-q nmhl.ia.
began when members of the associa-
1 tion pointed out possibilities for ex-
I (Cootiuued on Page 2,
