AS first announced January 1, 1916, The Herald
guarantees full money's worth to the purchasers
of articles advertised in the display columns of this
paper by any Washington mer?Jiant.
(Circular Furnished Vfan Request).
THE
^Asmsim
Daily and Sunday
HERALD
30
Cent? a
Month
DELIVERED TO YOUR HOME
NO. 3409.
weather-fur and WARMER. WASHINGTON. D. C.? WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1916.
ONE CENT.
U. S. TO COMBAT TEUTON
PLAN FOR U-BOAT WAR
AGAINST ARMED SHIPS
Cabinet Firmly Decides Not to Accept Views
of Germany and Austria?Allies
Will Be Upheld.
NO CHANGE IN PRESENT LAW
Announcement Follows Introduction of ?Senate Resolution
Protesting Against Acquiescence in Teuton Policy?Pro
posed Disarmament Merely Humanitarian Request.
President Wilson yesterday reversed the position tentatively adopt
ed by this government regarding the new German and Austrian policy
towards armed merchant vessels.
The view of the State Department has been to accept the sugges
tions of Germany and Austria.
It was decided yesterday by the Cabinet to ignore them, and rather
to sustain the position of the entente allies.
After the meeting it was announced by the State Department that
the United State? "will not depart from the fundamental principles of
international law." It was added that the United States recognizes
the right of vessels to carry defensive armament as an "established rule
of international law."
Th* announcement thst the United*
r at?.?, adheres to this policy came after
|l ??11 ? Sterling, of South Dakota. ha<1
tntrodutsed a resolution in the Senate
Insisting there should be no more
a?-?iule?eence by this government In the
fierman and Austrian policy of submarine
?rar against armed merchantmen.
Sir Cecil Spring-Rice, the British Am
bassador, who waa at the Stats Depart
ment durine the afternoon, said that the
British government would disarm Its
nirnhantmen if the United 8tates could
f larantce that Germany would keep Its
pledges not to sink unarmed vessels. He
lid not think the United Sutes could do
?hi?.
Haaaaattarlaa Re?i?e?t.
Secretary Lansing- said the suggestions
??-.-?- to the entente sllies to disarm
ri.en.hantmen, conditioned on a d?clara
tion from their cnemlaa that no unarme?!
ships would b* sunk, ?ere made from a
humanitarian stand pafat in an effort to
save life. If the allies refuse to accept
Mese proposals, he Indicated, the United
Elates win rail back on International
law.
in its proposal to the allies the United
4U its? was asking them to change an
< lalilidhed rule of InternaUonal law. If
they will not agre?? to change this rule.
the United States. It was clearly pointed
out. will not attempt to "change the
? . ? of the came while the i?ar is In t
pusicss." It was on this point that
Great Britain raised her greatest objec
tion to the contemplated action of the
United State? going over to the Teatonic
axles' view.
Secretary Lansing said that what the
United State? may do la to change its
evidence on which it determines whether
armament carried by a vessel entering
American ports Is to be used for offensive
or defensive purpose?.
? arlaace la >oted.
"The regulations to port commanders
issue?! on September 19. 191?, outlined
this e\ .?Jen? e. They permitted merchant
vessels tj- carry guns of S-inch caliber
for defense. Secretsry Lansing indicated
that the United States might consider re
ducing the caliber of these guns from six
Inches to two Inches.
It was made very plain, however, that
the United States will not Issue regula
tions to port commanders Instructing
them to regard all enemy merchantmen
carrying guns as auxiliary cruisers, as
has been the clearly indicated Intention
of the department.
Th? position announced1 by th? State
TVpartraent yesterday was held in many
cuartera to be wholly at variance with
the view expressed In the disarmament
proposals made by Secretary UnSni to
the entente allies on January IS.
In these proposals Secretary Lansing
held that the right to arm merchantmen
vraa a ^"doubtful legal right which may
be denied on account of new condlUons."
In th? proposals of January IS Secretary
Lansing also definitely Indicated that the
United States ml^ht fully subscribe to
the German and Austrian position that
armed merchant vessels of belligerents
shemld be regarded as warships.
The resolution Introduced by Senator
Sterline declared that if the United Sutes
PuU Its contemplated policy Into effect
't would constitute s more serious men
ace to the United Sutes' International
relstlons than anything that has been
don? since the outbreak of the European
J??BY BLAMES KAISER.
?"??'??e?' a? vi?rwer Aeeeaaory ia
Censtr'? :?,.,?,., After Raid.
!.ondon. Feb. U.?Coroner and Jury
r'ashed today at the Inquest over the
boaty of vlcUms killed In Staffordshlr
bv Zeppelin airship?. Despite the oppo
sition of the coroner, the jurors returned
a verdirt of wilful murder, with the
Kaiser ?ne crown petare as accessories
before tb? fact
Ta? coroner then announced that as he
had no method of service against th?
kaiser or '-own t>r?ne?. it was Impossible
? rreas?< against them, and h. r?' ,?r 1
a? ?? ???ata. tar ???*,
LEPER PLAGUE
IN U. S. FEARED
Startling Facts Revealed by
Experts Before Senate
Health Committee.
ASSERT FIFTY LEPERS ARE
WALKING NEW YORK STREETS
Physicians Declare Federal Lepro
sarium Is Only Bar to Danger
ous Epidemic.
Startling testimony on fne possibility
of a spread of leprosy in the United
Stetes was given before the Senate Com
mittee on Public Health snd National
Quarantine yesterday.
Physicians, missionaries, nurses and
experts on vital statistics told the mem
bers of the committee, from expert
knowledge, that the only way to prevent
the increase of cssi-s and to prevent a
possible epidemic was to provide for a
Federal asylum or leprosarium such as
the bill introduced by Senator Ransdell,
of Ixiuisiana, chairman of the commit
tee, contemplates.
The experts estlmsted that there are at
least a thousand cases in the United
States; that only five hundred of these
are known to exist; that there are prob
ably fifty lepers walking the streets of
New York undetected and unmolested,
probably eighty In rhicago and one or
more in every large city of the country.
Frederick Hoffman, an expert of one of
the leading Insurance companies, said he
had obtained information that there are
eighteen States which have one or more
lepers.
Dr. Howard Fox. of New York, ex
pressed the opinion that thi.re were fifty
in New York.
There are only three Institutions for
treating leprosy In the United States and
none of them Is under Federal control.
One Is the Louisiana State institution
and the other two arc the Massachusetts
State Institutton and the municipal asy
lum for lepers In San Francisco.
The witnesses agreed that segregation
was the only means of combatting the
disease. Isolation was condemned. It
was pointed out that in San Francisco,
where eighteen patients are confined,
they live together in each other's com
panyy and enjoy the remnants of their
lives, which, if isolated, they would suf
fer In body and mind needlessly.
Dr. J. W. McKean, an expert, said that
forcible segregation was the only way to
deal with the disease. In Europe years
ago the victim was sent into perpetual
Isolation till death carried him away.
In Hawaii, the witness said, the dis
ease had been arrested and Is in a fair
way of being extinguished. This was ac
complished by segregation.
Experts testified that all the known
cases In the Un d states were traceable
to one of four sources: China, the Philip
pine?, Hawaii or Key We
LONE MAN G? COESET SCHOOL
Owe Maaeallne Rayer From Writ
G n.t rn.-i.-d ln ?fraterie? of Lacing.
New York. Feb. 15.?Corsets to be
worn this season must be fitted to a
nicety, concealing unshapely lines,
short waists and?well?anything like
that, according to the regulations laid
down by the members of the Cor
setleres' School of Instruction which
was held today at the McAlpin Hotel.
Corset buyers from all over the coun
try attended the demonstration. With
the exception of one man from the
west, all were women.
While her assistant, a young woman,
who ranka as an "average figure." dis
played the proper costumes for the dif
ferent kinds of form*. Hfl*? Hertha ?.
Strlekltr, head of the school, conducted
by ? large corset firm, tiplalntd the
tBUlcAUUt. q< ia?ua-r."
BLASTS CAUSE
$18,000 BLAZE
IN AUTO STORE
Gasoline Tanks Explode in
Fire at Probey-Arrison
Motor Co.'s Plant.
17 MACHINES BURNED
Believed Electric Short Cir
cuit Ignited Receptacle
of Acetylene.
POLICEMEN ARE DRENCHED
Crowd of Seveial Thousand Watch
Firemen Battle for Hour With
Stubborn Flames.
Exploding gasoline tanks, bursting hos?,
and freezing weather made spectacular a
fire destroying seventeen automobiles and
doing damage estimated at from 111,000
to ?18,000 In the Probey-Arrison Motor
Company, 35*1 Prospect avenue northwest.
last rrlght. The flames were discovered
about 7 o'clock by an engine company re
turning from a false alarm of fire. Fire
men worked for more than an hour be
fore the blaze was under control.
A bursting acetylene tank gave the first
warning of the fire. The flare of the
explosion attracted the crew of No. 6
Engine Company, speeding along M street
a block distant. Being on the return to
their quarters, the engine was stopped
and firemen ran toward the garage. Two
other explosions occurred before they
reached the building.
Two alarms were turned In and six
engines and three trucks were called to
the burning building. Three aditlonal
explosions of automobile tanks, startling
the neighborhood, punctuated the fire as
streams ?? water were directed Into the
flaming workshop.
A crowd of several thousand people, at
tracted by the detonations and flare,
packed the snow-covered streets near the
garage. A squad of ilx policemen, or
dered to the blaze, were deluged by a
bursting hose as they reached the seen?,
furnishing a side-line of merriment for
the fire-allured spectator?.
It is supposed the fire was caused by
an electric short circuit Igniting an acety
lene tank. Members of the firm estimated
their loss at ?18.000. Hire Marshal Nichol
son placed the damage at $2,000 on the
building and JV??* on the automobile?.
War Costs France
$6,500,000,000
Budget for Next Three Months
Carries $1,266,688,000
for Military.
| S[?cul Cable to Turn Wtebingtaa Herald.
Paris. l'*cb. 15.?Franco will require
$1.$9G?,06-?,000 to run the government and
conduct the war the second quarter o?
1916. Of thi? amount $1,1.66,688,000 will
be for military purposes.
These ligures were contained In the
budget Introduced in the Chamber of
Deputies today by Minister of Finance
Rlbot.
Since the beslnnlg of the war the ex
penditures. Including those estimated for
the next i>uarter. amount to $9,3no,-TOO,000.
Of this sum 16.500,000,(00 were for the con
duct of the war.
NEW ARREST MADE IN
LAMBERT POISON CASE
,Drug Clerk Charged With Selling Po
tion to Young Orpet, Accused
Slayer of Girl.
Chicago. Feb. IB.?A new arrest was
made today in connection with the death
of Marlon Lambert, the Lake Forest
schoolgirl, whose body was found last
week tn Helm's Woods.
The man arrested was Charles W. Has
slnger, drug clerk and university stu
dent at Madison, Wls. The charge
against him Is that he sold to William
II. Orpet. the alleged murderer of the
girl, quantities of a drug which was to
be used for the purpose of producing
abortion.
The State's attorney also counts on
proving that Orpet bought from Hassin
ger an empty bottle?an innocent two
ounce vial?Just before he mede his se
cret Journey to Lake Forest, a.nd the
prosecution expects to prove that Orpet
placed poison In? the bottle and caused
Miss I-ambcrl to drink It.
Wilson's Name Before Illinois.
j Springfield. 111.. Feb. lS.-Prestdcnt Wil
son's primary petition as a candidate for
the Democratic nomination at the Presi
dential primaries on April 11 was filed
with Secretary of State Stephenson late
to *. This 1? Wilson's second Slate
primary petition, the other having been
tiled In Ohio.
"Horiwa ? ?? east Indian Limited."
Atlantic Coi it Une, 3:05 p. m dailv.
Only train carr>ln?r through sleeper to
urlando and Tampa, with one night out
Ml ? ,Ca. Qllice. it?? J?. T. Av?. N. W.?
"Wilson Has Been Blindly
Leading U.S. Into War," Says
Root, Flaying Democrats
"Keynote" Speech at New York Republican Convention As
sails Administration's Foreign Policy As One of "Words
Not Deeds," Holding Up President as Tardy Convert.
???-?il to The *v*7?? h i ? ft in HenM.
New York, Feb. 1??.?In a speech bris
tling with withering refcrenco to the di
plomacy of the Wilson administration
and branding th* government aa brave
in words and Irresolute in action, Kllhu
Hoot last night declared In opening the
Republican State convention that "Amer
ica has been blindly stumbling along
the road that, continued, .will lead to
war."
The convention has been a series of
Wolent skirmishes between the Whitman
and Barnes factions. The fighting cen
ters on the election of delegates at Urge
to the Republican national convention
and on an Indorsement of Oov. Whit
man's administration. At ? o'clock this
morning, with commute? still In ses
sion, there were Indications that Whit
man would win a partial victory.
If tliat section of the Rrpubllcan party
of which Mr- Root Is the acknowledged
leader takes Its cue from last night's
speech, it will work at Chicago for a
Mtraightout anti-German platform. For
Mr. Root's strongest invective was re
served for a denunciation of the Invasion
of liei*I urn and a denunciation of Presi
dent Wilson for having failed to protest
against that invasion.
In regard to the ?,,?.sitan la ca?? Mr.
Root accused th*?? G?-Hident of a "policy
Bt threatening words without deeds."
As to Mexico, he accused the President
of having Interfered In her Internal af
fairs to destroy Muerta and ?et up Car
ranza, but without taking any action to
.:? ? in: i American life and honor.
"For the first time In twenty yeara we
enter the field as the party of opposi
tion," aald Mr. Root, in beginning his
speech. He arraigned the Democratic
party Tor ita tariff policy, declaring that
present prosperity ?as only temporary
and was due to war conditions more ef
fective than any protective tariff.
Turning to Ini*-mattoni! relations, he
Bald:
CONTINUED ON TAGE TWO
Battle Planes Raid Frontier of
Nearly Every Warring Land
Engagements in midair and raid? of
big armored battile planes in nearly every
belligerent country of Europe featured
the official war reports yesterday.
Rome reports that the Austrian raid
over Milsn on Monday was only part of
a series of attacks on the cities of North
ern Italy. In which thirteen persona were
killed. At Trlviglio. birthpltfce of Michael
Angelo, a monument to the memory oi
the famous painter was damaged. Bresci
wfts attacked by a squadron of six aero
planes. Vienna announces that ail of the
eleven planes attacking Milan returned
safely, running the gauntlet of bombard
WAS WARNED
NOT TO WED
J. E. Roosevelt Advised by
Brother Against Marrying
"Zero Bride."
Epeci?! to The Wtfahtaftoe Herald.
New York, Feb. 16.?Robert B. Roose
velt, testifying today before Supreme
Court Justice Crane in Brooklyn, said
that he warned his brother. John Ellis
Roosevelt, against marrying a woman so
much younger than himself.
John Ellis Roosevelt, a cousin of Col.
Theodore Roosevelt. Is seeking to annul
his marriage to Mrs. Edith Hammereley
Briscoe Roosevelt. He Is 62. She Is thirty
years his Junior.
"Did he discuss with you his marital
relations after his return from Europe."
Mr. Williamson. Mrs. Roosevelt's counsel,
asked Robert H. Roosevelt. He referred
to the honeymoon trip to Europe after
tfio marriage In Washington.
"Only to state to me that he was very
happy." replied the witness. Hie brother
on the previous day declared that un his
return hr- was most unhappy.
Mrs. Edith Roosevelt, who contradicted
her husband yesterday on the stand, was
not in court today. ?After Robert B.
Roosevelt left the stand F. L. Wellman.
a lawyer, said that he advteed Mrs,
Roosevelt in September. 1914, to consult
a physician. She underwent an operation
by Dr. W. GUI Wylle.
Justice Crane decided that It would be
necessary to take the testimony of Dr.
Wylle before proceeding with th? case.
He announced that he would appoint a
commission to Interrogate Dr. Wylie.
ment from earth and attacks of Italian
aviators.
French and Russian airmen dropped six
bombs on Cremowltz, the capital of
Bukowina, escaping to safety when at
tacked by Austrian aviators, Vienna
states.
Belgium officially reports that "in r?
pnaaj for recent bombardments by Ger
man aeroplanes one of our air squadrons
?Monday night successfully dropped six
teen heavy projectiles on the aerodrome
at Handzaemel."
Near Grobla. northwest of Tarn o poi. a
German battle plane ahot down a Rus
sian aeroplane. The pilot and observer
1 were killed, says Berlin.
BEL?U?V?CALLS
ON J. J. HILL
King Albert Asks Railroad
Builder to Help Recon
struct Nation.
Fpea.I to T*?# WMhJnftoo Herald.
St. Paul. Feb. 15?That James J. Hill
will be the central figure In the recon
struction of Belgium at the request of
King Albert Is reported on good au*
thoiity.
A voluminous document penned by the
King of Belgium dealing with the situa
tion has been delivered by special mes
senger to Mr. Hill. A plan of reconstruct
ing the finances of Belgium Is said to be
occupying Mr. Hill's time at Jekyll
Island, Ge?rgie, where he went several
weeks ago for a vacation. When a young
man. King Albert visited Mr. Hill for
more than a month and traveled over the
Northwest and Pacific Coast. Shortly
after the war broke out Mr. Hill sent
King Albert 125.000.
A commission which recently visited
this country from Belgium to study
plans for reconstructing the country af
ter the war madr a special trip to St
Paul to see Mr. Hill. Thosf who knov
Mr. Hill's close friendship and sympathy
for King Albert ssld he will take up the
task of helping to straighten out the
finances of the stricken country.
Teutons Close in on Durazzo.
Amsterdam. Feb. 15.?It Is seml-of
ficially reported from Vienna that only
a coastal lake separates the Austro
Hungarians from Durazzo,
Over 7,000 New Subscribers
In the Last 6 Weeks
HAVE BEEN ADDED TO
THE CITY ROUTES OF
THE^IHERALD
SUCH a volume of new circulation at any time of the year would
tax the delivery organization of any newspaper in Washington, or
any other city for that matter. At this season, which is the hardest of
all the year on carriers, even under ordinary conditions, it has been
difficult in the darkness of early morning to distinguish house numbers
on new homes serves to an extent that has sometimes caused wrong de
liveries and has had a tendency to lateness of delivery to old subscribers
who have heretofore found HERALD carriers prompt and accurate.
We believe that this congestion caused by the amount and rapidity
of The HERALD'S circulation increase has been entirely corrected.
However, we would appreciate the prompt filing of any complaint as to
nondelivery or late delivery on subscriptions, new or old.
Phone MAIN 3300 or .ddre-s The WASHINGTON HERALD.
BRYAN TO FIGHT
AGAINST WILSON
AT CONVENTION
-
Commoner Probably Will Op
pose Renomination of Presi
dent at Gathering.
AGAINST SECOND TERM
Former Premier Also Will At
tack Executive for Advo
cacy of Preparedness.
TIME NOW RIPE FOR PROTEST
Believed, However, Bryan Will Sup
port Candidacy o? Wilson Should
His Efforts Be Futile.
William Jennings Brysn. It I, declared,
will oppose the renominatlon of President
Wilson in the Democratic national con
vention, lie ?-111 base this opposition
upon the one-term plank of the Balti
more platform and upon Mr. Wilson's ad
vocacy of preparedness.
Bryan made Wilaon's nomination pos
? Ible at Baltimore. He will, his friends
declare, train the same ?runs upon the
President at St. laouis to prevent his
again being the choice of the Democratic
party.
If he fatla In his mtaslon he will sup
port Wilson's candidacy?as he did that
of Alton B. Parker.
"I have not thought It wise." Mr. Brs'
an said recently to a friend In Washing
ton, ?J'to make an open statement as to
whether or not I would support the
President. Ko one has such a right until
the President announces that he wants
another term."
The fact that President Wilson has
permitted the use of his name on th?
Ohio primary ballots, however, has left
Bryan in the open to declare his posi
tion. Upon strength of the President's
announcements. Bryan's friends feel st
liberty to say that the erstwhile Secre
tary of state will line up against his
former chief.
"Nothing In my past actions." raid
Mr. Bryan, "has Justified the suspicion
that I would not support the Democ
ratic ticXet. I have no axe to grind
All I ask Is to allowed to work along
my own lines for the reforms In which
I em so deeply interested. I have no
friends whom I must reward at the ex
pense of the nstion, and no enemies to
punish. There are plenty of good men
from whom to choose."
Speaking of his opposition to Presi
dent Wilson's preparedness plsn. Mr.
Bryan said:
"Democracy should and must stand
united against it It Is a Republican
Issue. It Is a part of the scheme to
restore to the country the protective
tariff policy. It eminates from 'inter
ests.' It would be the height of folly
for the Democratic party, after fight
ing for years for tariff reform, to be
blindly led Into the arma of the pro
tectionists. Their only return would
be the enrichment of the "Interests."
who will make vast fortunes out of this
preparedness scare.
"I have failed to be convinced that
the voters demand big armaments. In
fact, every mandate from the voters on
that score, so far as I have been able
to see, has no negative."
Bryan's decision to oppoee his former
chief will naturally have great weight.
To what extent he will go at the St.
Louis convention cannot be surmised.
Egypt Guarded,
Kitchener Says
War Secretary Tells Parlia
ment Allies Have Increased
Forces in Field.
Si?etal fJaHe to Th? Washington HaraJ?.
London, Feb. 15.?Adequate preparations
have been made to g<iard against
threatened invasion of Egypt, Lord
Kitchener, secretary of state for war. an
nounced in Parliament this afternoon.
The British forces in France have been
Increased by elsht divisions, he said.
In the Mesopotamia field of operations,
the ?-ar secretary stated that Gen.
Aylmer was awaiting re-enforcements be
fore renewing a forward movement.
Speaking of the Russian army, Lord
Kitchener said that it was thoroughly
reorganised and re-equipped.
Chicago Gets Baltimore Prisoner.
Baltimore. Md. Feb ID.?Sergt.
Charlea S. Gratten, of Chicago, left
here today with J. L. Baker, of Pitts
burgh, who Is charged In the Windy
City with conspiracy. Baker was ar
rested at the city Jail here where he
was serving a term of five months on
the charge of conspiring to defraud
the Maryland Jockey Club- by means
of fraudulent pari mutuel tickets.
Irish Demand Voice at War's End
New York. Feh 15. -Participation by
Ireland in the peace negotiations that
will oome with tie end of the Huronean
?? ar is the subjcit-of a noniaartisaii con
vention of irishmen and Irish-Americans
to be held here March 4 and k J
GERMANS CRUSH LINE
HELD FCR MONTHS BY
BRITISH IN FLANDERS
Heavy Bombardment and Mines Shatter
Hitherto Impregnable Salient at Ypres.
Repeated Charges Win Trenches.
Manv Prisoners Taken.
ARTILLERY DUEL CONTINUES
French and Teutons Struggle in Champagne District to Re
cover Ground Lost?Heavy Guns Roar Unceasingly,
With Infantry Inactive.
Saw-rial fakir ta T?r w? a.alaa-i?? HrraU.
London, Feb. 15.?The Germans have broken through the British
front on the Ypres salient, in Flanders, capturing from 600 to 800 yard?
of front line trenches.
The shattering of the heretofore impregnable British stronghold
followed an exceedingly heavy bombardment, and wrecking of the ap
proaches to the works by mining operations.
The Berlin report which places the gain at 800 yards of trench
states that a large part of the British occupants of the treiK-hes were
made prisoners. The British commander's report states that but 600
yards of trench were lost.
Several ?German attack* were made before the British line was
forced to give way. Heavy bombardment by the artillery of both sides
continues :
SUFFRAGE HIT
IN THE HOUSE
Judiciary Committee Post
pones Action on Woman's
Amendment.
MEASURE "DEAD'' SO FAR AS
THIS SESSION IS CONCERNED
Effort to Foftpone Cwst-deration of
Prohibition Amendment li
Defeated.
Nation-wide woman's auftrage was
killed yesterday by the House Ju
diciary Committee, ao far as action at
the present session of Congre*? Is'
concerned.
By a vote of 3 to 7. the committee
voted to defer consideration of the
proposed constitutional amendment
until December 14.
An effort was made to postpone the
proposed prohibition amendment until
the same date, but the vota was 7 to
7, and there la a chance that It wilt
be brought before Congress at this
session.
-r. fTr, .j ..? . Are '? ?m -
'"ommittec member? blamed the suf
fragists who have been moat active In
the Capitol for the action taken yea
terday. Two rival suffrage organ.*a
tione clashed over the advisability of
having the postponement voted on In
the Judiciary Committee, one urging
an immediate vote and the other in
sisting: that it be postponed tempor
arily.
Representative Nelson, of Wisconsin,
when a sub-committee reported to the
full committee the so-called "Susan
B. Anthony amendment." snored that
consideration be postponed tempor
arily. Representative Carlin, of Vir
ginia, an opponent, then submitted a
motion that consideration of the pro
posed amendment be postponed until
the next session of Congress.
When the vote was taken, some of
the pro-suffrage members of the com
mittee voted with antis, and the Car?
lin motion prevailed.
When anti-prohibitionists saw the
way the suffrage amendment was
going, they made an effort to include ,
with it the proposed constitutional
amendment, making the whole nation ?
dry. but failed after a lively tilt.
Prohibitionists argued that th?
"dry" amendment was ?till In the sub
committee, and that its action should
be awaited. Another vote ?as forced,
and the "drys" won the opening ekir
mfsT. by succeeding in getting a tl?,
leaving the status of the question aa
It was before.
LEVEE BREAK WIDENS
People Klrr Fer I 1? ? ? Hrfrrrr Oi
...li? Watrra \.> . \*?. ?.. .
Katrhrz, Mie?.. Feb. li.?A telephone
roport from Newellton tonlcht ?lated thai
th? break between Ruckrldte lendine
and the Burn On Lake Pahnyrl? 1? widen
ing rapidly and that Lake fit. Joseph is
ridine at the rate of a font an hour. Iar|.
numbers of people h?ve left NewHlton
?ml the \lclnily. but many are (tajine to
make a flsht atrain?! Hie nnraahlar
aetcrf.
Thr attempt te buHd a ptotrrtion trier
? rounil the toan of Nemellloii ha? been
fivrn up ?? lioaele.*?.
Baltimore-Bound Ship Sinks
Plymouth. KnfUnd. leb. It.?The
? fauler Kenkon Mini from Mamelle?
for Baltimore, b?? foundered In a Rah
in mid-Atlantic The crew waa rre
cued and a a* landrd b*re lodar
Siili ?ir?,il. la <???.?>????
In Champagne the ?truffle of th?
Germans and Fr?nch t? recover
ground lost by each east and west ef
Butt? du Me,nil continues The ftght
inr Is mainly by artillery Th? French
made an infantry attack against th?
newly gained German position, north
west of Tabure. It was repulsed, ??
cording to the Berlin statement.
Fighting in Upper Alase? for th?
positions east of Zeppo?, toda? ?as
limited to an artillery ?aamganiant
Th? French batteri?? heswlly sh,lt?4
th? positions captured raoaotly Ur taas
Germana, wfco^^aad?, vigoro?, reply
? r? ,,r? ..r.? K. r? a??..
Parts reports that In Artois r^rmmuU
trench guns ?belle? th? German ?>
ganiaatlens on th? edg? of th? roa?
rom Lilie. West of the Ois? s G?r
j man train and supply convey was
? bombarded. The French poured a d?
Mruouve ore on th? German works
, northeast of Solssona. and in th? Ar
gonne at La Fill? Morte, exploded a
mine and occupied the crater.
Italia?? Take nt.aili?
Vienna. Feb 1? official >.? Til? llal
? ian artillery shelled the Auetro-Hua
atarian positions on both aide? of th?
Yusera and Siebe? h Vallea At rold
? night they began a bombardment of
? the Austrian front between the Fella
I Valley and Vlesh Mountain
The Italian, mad? repeated attack?
against our new positions In the Rum
b?n district, but wer? repulsad with
heavy loarres
r
1 :
Storm Off Capes
Wrecks 2 Ships
Crew Rescued From One
After Clinging for Hours
to Rigging.
fermai te Ta? WaataaarUaa nasa??.
Norfolk. Va. Kfb. 15.?T?o ?hips ?t?
in distress off the Virginia Capes as a
result of the storm. The '-new of a barge
haa been rescued- Other 8 0S calls
have been picked up and the coast guard
cutter, on Onondaga and Reminole ar? at
sea searching for the distressed craft
The barge Henry V Hooper, battered
by the Has. filled ?itr. ?ater flve mile?
north of Diamond Shoals Th? crew
wer? taken off by the Clyde Unar Ma
hawk after having clung to the riegln?
for several hour*.
The schoon?r N. II. Burrows Is report
ed aground six miles off Hog Island. An
unknown steamer also I, reportad le dis
trees.
COLD KILLS NIKI DI GOTHA*
/.er? ?atibar Drl.a? IVO?) ?? Mrli.i
?f Haalrlaal Lodai?? Ha??)
N?w York. F?b. 1?.?Nln? pe???.???
sre dead In the cold wave which has
now begun to rclas It, grip on N?w
Tork. Th? theremometer raclstsrad
ten degrees shove aero at SIS o'clock
? nd the westher forecaster predict??!
a stesdy rta? of temperature
Th? ?old 'drov? nearly ??* persona
to apply for? shelter at the municipal
lodging house
Iulians Floating? in Balksni
Zurich, leb. If?Severe fighting a?
In progreas between Austrian aad
Italian troops on the heights li 11 ? ?isa?,
Durasse and Tirana In Albania aaya
the Vosstdie Zeitung. Tbl, Is the Ira*
big battle la which the Italia?? have
taken part In the Balkans. They asas
under command of Ora. Pa Va ?I
Sajvtrf Otukc Ftlt in Alps
Stuttgart. Keb U.--A sever? earth
quake occurred in thr ??????? Alas
region ?ondar Five ?Ilia??? w?r?
aeveraly damaged, but ao loas of llf?
has be?n reported
