'" , iimm'i-wwwwi ' m n '," m ' m ' -' i1 ipi'wiwpiiHWPwww' iwij m p'ljjBwiwiippiyj)!
IWnW
vs
1 jj&&tttuiAftLr.;SM . mtTt yt; k 4 t i.
-
!-- r-sA'
FINANCIAL EDITION
NIGHT
EXTRA
NIGHT
EXTRA
ituenma
.
VOL. 1I.-NO. 103
PHILADELPHIA, WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1910.
CoriRirmr, 191(1, Bt tub Public Redoes CouriM.
PRICE ONE CENT
mi ii., imwww p igwuHWJMmpiwptjHpiwiwPn wwww
rfyb mrager
$5,000,000 IN WAR STUFFS
M ALLIES AND 43 SHIPS
BURNED; PLOT SUSPECTED
Brooklyn Fire Sweeps
British uratt, wreck
ing Tons of Cotton,
Oil and Explosives
Two Lives Probably Lost in
Spectacular Blaze T n a t
Leaps to Docks and Endan
i
gers Wnoie waier rruin
Federal Inquiry Is Ordered
ft
W- NEW YORK, Feb. lB.-Two big Brlt-
Mh steamships, laucn wmi mumuuiin unu
w supplies for tho Allies; 40 llBhtcrs anil
"'. "rr - nil ,-nttnii nml Hllfills and
".'.,. 11 dm Kntiih rtrooklvn water
ifront, wcro destroyed enrly today by n
fire WhICll IS DOIieveu iu ,m.u iw"
from a bomb plot.
The total loss Is estimated at jb.oou.uuu.
. .li..i n.Ulel. miinHtmiH Ktlln. Ilin T-1M.
. a win xjwunii .... -- '-
larlo. was badly damaged, but tho flro on
this ireignicr mm iini,uii. ........ ..
v.rf rad for live hours.
.! The steamships Bolton Castlo and Pa
yne, owncu oy mc v-.isuu .u.c, vc.u
wept and wrecked by tho flames.
Thousands or ions oi war iimiuuuua
itored In pior No. 3G wcro burned.
!.. !--. Ailmini1 on ftvnlfmlnn. n nil . IPfl
by cotton and oil, spread so rapidly that
the firemen wcro unnoio iu uucun. no
progress.
TWO seamen iiro iiiiaaiuh.
TWO SERIOUSLY INJURED,
.--..i.. n T camltli nt IVin Pnnlllcv nnil
Mm. Kmlth wcro Injured so badly they
rrolnbly will dlo. -
Sixty naked seamen, who leaped from
id. uhlns into the water, wcro picked up
,ljr tugs and flreboats.
The Are, which is tno niggcst yet ui-
.-tl......l ... -..ni. nlnMnfn In thtci vtMnlfV.
was one of tho most spoctacular on the
T1 l.t.... ...n.A.. .M Vn f1ftmm . .,1
.L. (1knnfa lfl,wl tl.all- lll'AQ nlT.M thft
fi piles of gasoline and ammunition whllo
B fljhtlng tho conflagration. As tho flames
i rtacncu mo nneiia incro wero cxpiuaiuus
S jfbleh sent clouds of smoko high nbovo
wo ruariiiH uuuiua.
Mrs. Smith, wlfo of tho master of tho
Faclfle, foil Into tho Ice-coated water, and
hftt. fciiahnnrl iilllinitfli fill ffrltlir tl f1lla
R cited arm, leaped after her.
Tho three rrciBiitcrH, ino smallest cu
wklAk vna flltn inna Itftfrlntl Vnm tfp in
i the lone pier, when tin explosion occurred
inoruy Dcioro o ciock.
FLAJtES SPREAD nAriDIA".
Instantly tho nler was enveloped In
dimes, whllo nutomatloflre alarmn bcRan
taundlng In linlf a dozen flro stations.
Wth land Ilremen and lire Boats responu-
d as quickly as possible, but before they
etched tho sccno tho nlor was a mass
of flames and tho tiro wns crawllnfr over
the Pacific and Bolton ?o,sUe. A column
of flro moro than 100 feet high lighted up
the water and shoic.
Within a few minutes nftcr the out-
iburit thcro wns a series of sharp detonn-
tioni and theso continued until artcr the
(Ire was under control.
The Bellaglo, which wan nearest tho
open channel, had Just caught llro when
the tiny tURboat Botnnla got a. lino on
Jhoard and began towing her towaril tho
jEUtuo of Liberty whllo Uio seamen on
- hoard fought desperately to extinguish tho
names.
Meanwhile three other tugs and a dozen
flreboats were engaged In roeculng women
ind children from tho burning lighters.
Police reserves, called from four sta-
'tlons, took charge of tho rescued, most of
Whom were In their night clothing.
The Bolton Castlo nrrlved from Manila
itveral days aco and had finished unload.
' 1S her cargo yesterday. Sho carried a
"bit ui do, ui wuom 40 wcru v.jiilivDa uim
ii bngllshmen. Tho Chinese seamen be-
Icame panic-stricken nnd. Jumped overboard
nun screams oi irigni as mo explosions
irew mora nnd more violent.
Deputy Fire Chief Lally, who arrived
Continued on Tage Five, Column One
COLD GONE, MERCURY RISING
Fair Wcathor Follows Higher Tem
peratures; tho Forecast
The two-day cold wave has bid adieu
to the city and nation, and the country
today Is literally "dry."
Warmer at sunrlso than It was nt sun.
let yeSterilav InAnv. tnr Ihn frat tfmn
Jit 4S hours. Rnw 11 rlnA In lAlnnnrnllirn
fcibove freezing. It was 30 degrees at 8
Mclock this morning. 21 degrees warmer
Flhin at the same time yesterday, nnd by
fvyn me mercury was wen on Its way
o tno irigm mark. Bnow and led
THlCh hava rlnnAH th rttv h(nn In
Rnelt. " J "
i. . oen no precipitation in ino
lilt 24 hniim tfl tt.A nnxntrt. avnnf a
'jriCO of rain at BlnKhamtnn. N. V.. and
I J, trace of snow In tho extreme north
weatem corner of Washington State,
?.v f'BMied as remarkable In view
p? tho moderating weather that prevails
w all sections.
S-'ino forecast la fair tonight and to.
Wpirow, slightly warmer tonight, with
...., winas, mostly soutnwest. The
(VWeat lemnAmlltrA Innlvhl If la unl.l
U be about 32 degrees.
8pllt Rail Caused B. and O. Wreck
f WA8IIINOTOV. P.h 1X i-.nnrf
IS4? Publlc today W Belnap,
t.J I ? ,ne 'I'vlslon of safety of the In.
ik . . Commerce Commission, states
lQM &n InVAStltrntlnn nf lha wMnlr wlilnh
LKcurred nn tha nniHmApa nn nku iioii.
tnn at F'ehty.four, Pa., near Washlng-
."-. pru su mat, shows the accident
M au to a split rail, which separated,
Viii a B ,no iracK. une person was
S . fni ,our Injured In the derailment
L a double-header freight train.
I THE WEATHER
ii T - '
FOR EH A ST
X' Flit- Dt.'l-J.l.t..' ..., - - ,.
f. ' "ueiuiKi ana vtcwitw
mtrr tontoht, with lowest temper
tna about2 degrees; gentle winds
." ouuinwest.
tor details see page 17,
LOST AND TOUKD
P"fe!!f.P?a..fnUn aosr. In Merlon. Saturday
K WH! um ISth. A auitable r.ward will
' ' rerrut Tfautn.
- .. .. . . r.-7"'
Kl reward I niurniH tn 1153T s TSVriia
W Ljt amj y0aa4 Ada s Ilfo l
Fads About $5,000,000
Fire on Allies' Steamships
t Total loss in ships, war muni
tions nnd docks estimated nt $5,
000,000. Two British steamships and their
cargoes complete wreck. A third
considerably damaged.
Forty lighters, with cargoes of
oil, cotton nnd shells burned.
Two lives probably lost, one a
woman, wife of n ship's captain.
Two senmen missing and proba
bly lost after leaping from their
ships.
Pier 3G, with a vnst amount of
freight for tho Allies, destroyed.
Daring deeds of shore nnd wat r
firemen, who went among burning
vessels, laden with high explosives,
with shells bursting on overy side.
Federal investigation of alleged
anti-Allies plot ordered.
FLAMES SWEEP
FALL RIVER FOR
$2,000,000 LOSS
Sixteen Buildings in Busi
ness Centre of Town
Are Razed .
ONE BELIEVED KILLED
FALL RIVER. Mass., Feb. 16. After
nn nll-nlght light against a $2. COO. 000 fire,
which swept tho business district of this
city, destroying about one-third of It, tho
combined flro-flghtlng npparatus of New
Bedford, Taunton and Newport checked
tho llnmcs early today.
' Starting from nn explosion In the base
ment of tho Stclgtr department store, at
Spring nnd South Main streets, tho flames
took every building, 1G In number. In the
square, including tho Lenox Hotel, and
Just missed tho City Hall and St. Mary's
Cathedral.
Tho principal buildings destroyed In
clude tho Edwnrds, Kllnt, Campbell,
.Stelgcr, Lenox, and tho homes of many
largo business firms Including Cobb, Bales
and Yerza.
Michael O'Rourke, watchman In tho
SEelKer Building, said ho heard a dull
roar, when ho was on tho top Moor. It
seemed to come from tho basement. Run
ning down tho stairs ho was met by a
rush of flames and as the telephone con
nections wcro burned away ho was forced
to dash Into tho street to glvo tho alarm.
This delay gave tho flro such a start
that tho building waH a furnnco by tho
tiine tho firemen arrived Snow-covered
roofs and good pressure wnB nil that
saved tho city from an oven greater con
flagration. A shift of tho wind early today turned
tho flames toward tho congested tenement
district, whero a largo mill population
lives, but they were checked beforo reach
ing tho dwellings.
At 2:30 o'clock this morning tho flro
was reported under control. It was said
a fireman named Sawyer had been electro-
cuted, but early today tho police had
been unable to confirm tho report.
One hundred guests at tho Lenox Hotel,
a four-story brick building, which was
swept away by the names, were forced
to fleo Into tho snow filled streets In their
night clothes,
WOMAN OF THE MASK,
OF SVELTE FORM, GIVES
CHESTNUT ST. A THRILL
Who Is She? and Echo Answers,
Who? Widowed by War and
Wishes to Conceal Identity
From Friends
ANYTHING FOR A JOB!
"The woman of the white mask"; who Is
she?
She has been In three different hotels
In the last 24 hours and today, when Bhe
ventured out on Chestnut street, business
paused and traffla stood still.
But the story behind the mask has been
brought to light. It begins In the battle
field of Ypres, crosses the Atlantic, ex
tends to the big cities, here and the end
Is yet to come.
Robert Louis Stevenson or Ilonore
Balzac could not In their wildest flights
of fancy pen a more picturesque romance
than that which lias been lived by
"Dorothy Kensington," she of the white
mask. The name, she admits, Is assumed.
It s "very possible from the contour
of her face and the luxuriance of her
golden hair that the mask conceals blue
or violet eyesv Her figure Is what the
novelists call "svelte" and her well mod.
ulated voice helps to bear out the story
that she belongs to exclusive social circles.
Accompanied by her brother, "Forbes
Kensington," she came here yesterday. She
said her chief object vas to remain In
seclusion. But unfortunately tbey se
lected a section of the city Ill-suited tpr
such a purpose,
When the masked visitor sought admit
tance to tho Bellevue-Stratford and the
Hotel Majestic, the while mask made the
clerk pause awkwardly at each place.
They then discovered that there was not
the slightest possibility that a single
room would be vacant for some time.
There was a quick consultation and
finally brother and sister were wbJsked
off to the Adelphla Hotel.
The bustled In quickly among numerous
guests and while Mr. Kensington was
placing their names on the register with
the word London after each, she of the
white mask was nonchalantly gazing
around. wlUi her back to the clerk.
They darted Into an elevator and ar-'
rived safely In aulte 1604-1906, mask and
alt fa be Bure. the elevator boy and
a few bellhop gave them "the once
over." but quickly forgot all about It and
no Inquiries were made.
When a visitor called, both the lady of
CsnUaucd as I'o "i. Celtxan ivvjr.
MYSTERIOUS MAID
tmS-. Atw?5' & xliiiiiiiiBk-
rKVfiJr iiillllllllllllllllllllfe
y;i k ' :'-y-:m5ntt'v-"" - x
Ik V ' S
ihfew. -J' IS
i jigsaw l ,jr v'
Hi i' New . .E.v
5 ..:rf; Ti i ifi i
This young woman, who calls herself Mrs. Dorothy Kensington,
widow of a British lieutenant, killed at Ypres, Belgium, is nt a
hotel in this city after vainly attempting to obtain rooms in two
other hotels. She is accompanied by her brother, who calls himself
Forbes Kensington. She wears tho mask, she explains, because
she does not wish her identity known in social circles in this country.
BRITISH ATTACK
POSITIONS LOST
SOUTH OF YPRES
Desperate Battle S,t ill
Rages for Possession of
Lines Near Hooge
a
NEW TROOPS UNDER FIRE
BERLIN, Fcfc 16.
Attempts by the English and French
forces to recapture positions taken by
the Germans have all been repulsed,
the German War Office announced to
day. The following official statement
was issued:
"English troops yesterday made
three attempts southeast of Ypres in
an attempt to recapture the position
we took from them. All were repulsed.
We took 100 English prisoners.
"In Champagne the French repeated
their attempt to regain positions
northwest of Tahurc. They met with
the same failure as on previous days.
LONDON, Feb. 16.
Determined to regain the trenches which
tho GermanB captured southeast of Ypres,
Hrlthli troopers are making strong counter-attacks
-with Indications of completo
Miccess, -nccordlng to reports received
today. ...
A vigorous nrtlllery clucl has been In
progress over the grenter part of the
Ypres front, with tho Gorman guns keep
Ing up a steady stream of shells Into the
ruined city of Ypres. ...,
The German attacks Indicated that tho
Teutons are again enguged In a desperate
Continued on Taae Four, Column blx
AZI0NI D'ARTIGLMIA
DALV0DHALCARS0
Opero di Fortiflcazlone Cam
pale del Nemico Distrutte dal
Fuoco delle Batterie Italiane
II rapporto del generale Cadorna pub
bllcato a Rotne questa mattina annuncla
che I'azlono dl urtlglleria sulla fronte
dell'Isonzo contlnua o va intenslflcandosl
In alcunl settorl. Speclalmente vlolenta
essa c' stata da parte delle batterie Itali
ane nella zona montuosa a nord d Tol
mlno, doye trattl dl opere dl trlncera
mento auetrlacho sono stall dlstruttl, o
sul Carso, dove altre trlncee nemlche sono
state rovlnate e le truppe che le occupa
vano sono state costrette ad abbando
narle. AU'lnfuorl d questa attlylta d
artlglleria null'altro annuncla II rapporto
del generate Cadorna, ad ecczlone delle
Imprese degll aeroplanl austrlacl In Val
d'Adlge e sul Tagllamento.
I vellvoll austrlacl hanno anche at
taccato lerl mattina la cltta dl Rlmlnl,
ma non hanno avuto It v tempo dl farvl
serll dannl, easendo statl attaccatl e mes
si In fuga dalle batterie special! Italiane.
che ora evldentemente vengono dlstrlbu!
Ite lungo tutta la costa adrlatlca. Due
perscme sono rlmaste ferlte a Rlmlnl.
(Legtrere In 6a paglna Je ultlme e plu
dettagllate notlzte sulla guerre. In Rail
ano.) Fresh Air Saves GUI From Gas '
Opening of ber bedrqom windows to
have fresh air while she slept saved the
life of Edna Mae Smith. 4234 Mark it
street When she went to bed last night
she left the gas turned on by mistake.
and but for the open windows, the police
say, he would have been asphyxiated.
She was revived with a pulraotor at the
jfrsabyterlau Hospital.
IN WHITE MASK
r.vs
V ..: ..i . YS
'i.- ' J -S
ROOT'S ATTACK
ON WILSON HIS
CRY OF BATTLE
Speech- to Republicans
Makes Foreign Policies
Keynote of Campaign
TARIFF GETS RAP, TOO
NIJW YORK. Feb. 16. Tho battle-cry
of tho conservative wing of the Repub
lican party for tho coming campaign has
been sounded.
It wns accepted In political circles to
day that tho speech of Ktlhu Root last
night before tho Now York State conven
tion, In which ho bitterly nttacked tho
Wilson Administration's foreign policy,
tho Democratic tariff and denounced the
Administration ns generally Incompetent
will servo as a teutntivo platform upon
which tho Root followers will go before
the peoplo in tho coming campaign.
Dealing with the Lusltnnla negotiations,
Mr. Root declared: "No man can draw a
pistol who dares not shoot. . The Gov
eminent that shakes Its flut first and Its
finger afterward falls Into contempt."
This quotation. Sir. Root's friends said,
may bo expected to bo one of tho most
prominent that will 'bo used Iu tho com
ing fight.
The former Senator declared tho Ad
ministration to be "blindly stumbling
along the road that, continued, will lead
to Inevitable war,"
Mr. Root pledged the Ropubllcan party.
If returned to power, to a foreign policy
"frank and fearless and honest" and leav
ing' no doubt anywhere "of America's
purpose to protect her Independence, her
territory and the lives and Just rights of
her citizens under the law of nations."
He vigorously denounced the Wilson
policy of dealing with Mexico, but the
Continued on I'aae lite. Column Two
ONE HURT WHEN FAST
TRAIN HITS FOUR CARS
Conductor Injured, Others
Shaken Up in Wreck at
Corn wells
One man was Injured and others were
badly shaken up today when a fast
freight train, bound for this city, crashed
Into a string of four steel cars at Corn
wells, above Andalusia, smashing one
car, derailing 12 loaded box cars attached
to the locomotive and blocking traffic on
tho New York division of the Pennsyl
vania Railroad for hours,
It was the second wreck within a week
near Cornwells and the third since No
vember, Failure of the brakes to hold
the four cars, which drifted from a
siding, Is thought to have caused the
wreck.
The Injured man Is Frank Ammerman,
of Mlddlebush, N. J conductor of the
freight train. His back was Injured when
his train buckled. After receiving first
aid treatment, he was sent to his home.
Engineer F, M. 'Qerhune, of Newark. N.
J,, and Fireman B W. Hughes, of Rail
way, N. J., stuck to their posts and es
caped uninjured, although the locomotive
crashed full Into the first of the steel
cars, scattering Its contents, CO tons of
coal, upon the four tracks of the division.
The 13 box cars, loaded with merchan
dise, were thrown across the tracks,
completely blocking traffla between this
city and New York. From the time of
the wreck, shortly after S o'clock this
morning, until noon west-bound trains
were sent over the Trenton "cut-off" and
east-bound passengers went by way of
Camden, white wrecking crews cleared
the tracks
The steel cars had been left on the sid
ing by another freight train. In addition
to loose brakes, it Is thought the switch
became unlocked, allowing the cars on
the siding to roll down an -incline ipto
the mala track.
LOSS OF GAME
BRINGS ACTION
ON STADIUM
Ask Quick Approval of
Plans for $760,000 Arena
for Army-Navy Contest
WOULD SEAT 100,000
Business Men and Penn Officials
Favor Project to Get
Big Meets
Great Stadium Plan
as Outlined Today
.
Movement for erection of largest
stadium in the world launched to
day by Chamber of Commerce nnd
officials of University of Pennsyl
vania. Will have seating capacity of
100,000; stadium group will also
include educationnl building, Greek
thentrc, dormitories and union sta
tion. Proposed to locate group on
property owned by tho city and
Woodlnnds Cemetery, ndj'acent to
Botanical Gardens of University.
Plans for financing project
await npproval of trustees of Uni
versity. Several have already in
dorsed them.
Loss of Army and Navy game to
Philadelphia brought stadium
movement to hend today.
If stadium project is successful,
it is proposed to make a bid for
Olympic games and othc great
athletic events for Philadelphia.
Announcement of the loss of the -Army
nnd Navy football gnmo to Philadelphia
today brought to a head a movement for
the erection of a $750,000 stadium with
n seating capacity of 100,000 pcrsonH In
Woodland ravine, which adjoins the Hot
anient Gardens of the University of Penn
slvnnla nnd Is part of tho Woodlands
Cemetery.
In addition to tho stadium, tho plans
include construction of n Greek theatre,
nn cducntlonul building and a union sta
tion, whero attendants at football games
and other big events could bo brought
directly to the grounds.
Tho stadium plans were prepared by
Genrgo 12. Nltzsche, recorder of the Uni
versity of Pennsylvania, and thoy have
been Indorsed by tho Munlclpnl Affairs
and Conventions Committee of tho Cham
ber -of. Commerce, of which Harry IJ.
Fronch Is chairman. ' '
S. R. Clark, secretary of tho committee,
announced today that tho Chamber of
Commerce 3 only nwaltlng the approval
of tho trustees of the University of tho
plans beforo It proceeds In the matter of
obtaining financial support for tho pro
ject. Tho Municipal Affairs nnd Conventions
Commlttco hns prepared n statement of
npproval, which tho trustees at tho Uni
versity will bo asked to sign within 24
hours, so that tho stadium project may
be launched whllo public Interest Is cen
tred upon the loss of tho spectnculnr Army
and Navy gnmo to Philadelphia.
Tho stntement which the trustees of
the University will be naked to sign fol
lows: "We, the undersigned trustees nnd
Alumni of the University of Pennsylvania
and other citizens of Philadelphia, rec
ognizing the nerd and advantages of n
big stadium, hereby express our approval
of the effort now being made to realize
the construction of such a stadium on
grounds adjacent to those of the Uni
versity of Pennsylvania, In accordance
with plans outlined In a certain prelim
inary report nnd plans submitted to
various bodies, providing for a stndlum
seating from 75.0W to 100,000 (a copy of
Continued on Taice Three, Column Two
Two Accused of Trying to Steal Auto
George Hoffner, 18 years old, of 1121
Hollywood Btreet. and Joseph Ramsay, 18
years old, 2121 North 16th street, were
each held under H00 ball today by Magis
trate Watson on the charge of having
attempted to steal Philip Rosner's nuto
mobile from tn front of the Mercantile
Club last Saturday. Tho police of the
19th and Oxford streets station say these
boys aro part of a gang of young men
who havo been stenllng automobiles for
Joy-ride purposes and then abandoning
them.
DANGER OF GENERAL
DYE WORKERS' STRIKE
Employes Walk Out to Help
Uniform Scale
Movement
A walkout, which may dovelop Into a
general strike among dyeworkers of this
city, began today when employes of four
dye concerns left their work and Joined
In the movement whlcn alms to establish
30 cents an hour as n flat wage for dye
workers as against the present variable
wage scae, which averages 25 cents an
hour. It Is predicted that before the end
of the day several hundred men will have
joined the strike.
The plants In which the strike has been
called are the Continental Dye Works,
Mascher and Thompson streets; the Brehm
& Stehle Dye Works, Trentoq and Alle
gheny avenues; the plant of Walter E.
Knlpe. of Hancock street below Berks, and
that of D. F. Waters, 53 Wistar street. At
the Brehm & Stehle plant 45 men and 5
boys, comprising practically the whole
force of the concern, participated In the
walkout At the other factory the men
are leaving as they finish the "lots'' upon
which they are working, and before night
fall the majority of the workers will have
Joined the strike, It Is said.
The strike was called at 1 o'clock this
morning by Arthur McDonnell, president
of the Dyers and Mercerlzera' Union,
after a meeting ct headquarters, B street
and Kenslnttou avenue. Not wishing to
call a Ktneral strike unless the step
snouia provo neceusry iu ineir ends, the
union appointed committees to present tho
demands of the workers to the owners
of each of the four concerns mentioned
above. This was done, and when the de
mands were not Immediately complied
with tfef walkouu were erUrd,
QUICK
MRS. FARWELL RELEASED BY BULGARS
ATHENS, Feb. 10. Mrs. Walter Farwell, of Chicago, nnd Doctor
forbes, Boston physician, engaged in Red Cross work in Serbia, have
been released by the Bulgntian authorities at Monastlr after three
months, detention. United States Consul Kohl nt Snlonica was noti
fied by Bulgarian authorities today that the two Americans are now
en route to Sofia.
BRITISH AIR DEFENSES NOW UNDER WAR OFFICE CONTROL
LONDON, Feb. 10. Announcement was made in Parliament to
day that the air defenses of England have been transferred to tho
contiol of the War Office. Hitherto they have been under the juris
diction of tho Admiralty.
M. P. INTERPELLATES ON GERMAN NAVAL ACTIVITY
I.ON'DON. Feb. 1C. A ilcmnnd for Information relative to (he destruction
of the HiKIhIi ste.'inislili Clan MncTuvlsh by the German commerce raldPr
Mopwp unil tho cnptiuc of tho Appam Is put up to the Foreign Offloo by a
Parliamentary paper filed by L. (llnnclt, an Irish Nationalist member of
Commons. Sir Edward Grey, the Foreign Minister, is also asked If tho full
text of the Admiralty messages sent to the Lusltnnla on her last voyaga
was communicated to "Washington.
SWEDEN TO PAY $i,250,000 FOR PREPAREDNESS
COPENHAGEN, Feb. 16. The Swedish Government has decided to aslt
Parliament for $6,250,000 to defray tho cost of maintaining neutrality defenses,
says a dispatch from Stockholm.
BRITAIN'S FOOD COST ADVANCED 47 PER CENT.
LONDON', Feb. 16. Since tho war began the prico of food in tho "TJ1ilted!&.
Kingdom has incrensed 47 per cent., according1 to statistics lssitctfjiy
tho Board of Trnde today. However, this Is less than the lncrenso In Berlin
and Vienna. According to tho figures, food has advanced 83 per cent. In
price In tho German capltul and 112 per cent. In the Austrian capital.
COURT RULES AGAINST SUFFRAGISTS
SPRINGFIELD, 111.. Feb. 16. The Supremo Court today decided that women
liavo no right to voto for national delegates or committeemen of political parties.
' ,1 t
DUTCH LINER STRIKES MINE; BADLY DAMAGED
LONDON, Feb. 16. The Dutch liner nandocgn Is reported to have struck
a mine In the English Channel last night. A dispatch to Lloyds says thnt ,
the .steamship Is badly damaged and that five tugs are assisting her. Tia
Bandoeng, a vessel of G831 tons, sailed from Hatavia on December 31 for
Rotterdam. Reports of tho sinking of tho steamHhlp Tergestea were con
firmed 'today, when 25 members of the vessel's crow wcro landed.
BULGARS BAR U. S. RED CROSS AID TO SERBS
LONDON Feb. 16. Bulgaria is carrying out n policy of sweeping out tho
natives from Serbian Macedonia completely to Bulgarlze tho occupied territory.
For this reason the Bulgarian authorities refused to allow tho American Red
Cross to carry out relief work In that section, according to Richard Schellcns,
an American, of Groton, Conn. Mr. Schellcns has been serving with Lady
Pagct's contingent. Mr. Schellcns, who has Just arrived In London from Uflftnp;
brought copies of tho correspondence between Director Edward Stuart, Of tha
American Red Cross parti", and helid 6fTlcIalB of tho Bulgarian Red Cross.
AMERICANS MAY LOSE MILLIONS ON SEIZED BONDS
NEW YORK, Feb. 16, Although some of the banking houses in tho financial
district aro beginning tn receive,, after a delay of from two to three weeks,
letters nnd securities directed to them from Holland and other European coun
tries, which were sent on tho steamers Noordam and Rotterdam, from which
tho British Government took tho malls for Investigation, there Is a largo possi
bility that many of these securities will never find their way to the persons
to whom they were consigned, nnd that tho loss will mount up Into tho millions.
In many cases securities hnve been extracted from tho packages, so'that incom
plete consignments aro being received. Many of the stocks nnd bonds with
held benr Gorman stamps and will bo retained by England for adjudication In
a prize court, If not seized as coming from enemy origin. It Is not Improbable
that a protest to Washington may bo made.
INDIA MUTINY PLOT REVEALED IN COURT
SHANGHAI, Feb. 16. Plans for n wholcsalo uprising against tho British
authorities in India were divulged In a veiled manner In tho English Supremo
Court when Slmond Hay Abbass nnd his son, Oswald Abbass, naturalized
British subjects, received prison sentences for Illegal trnfllc In arms In viola
tion of tho British defense of tho realm act. The evidence showed that tha
father, assisted by his son, engaged In selling to tho armies of Great Britain
15,000 rifles, 1000 revolvers and about 1,500,000 rounds of ammunition, the recip
ients of which Intended to deliver them In India, Ceylon ind the Straits Settle
ments with a vlow to their uso in rebellion against tho British Government.
GERMANY TO BLOCK ENTRANCE TO BALTIC
LONDON, Feb. 16. The Stockholm correspondent of neuter's Telegram
Company states that the Swedish Foreign Ofllce has received tho following com
munication from tho German Minister: "In a short tlmo shipping obstructlona
and mines will be laid out In different plnces outsldo of Swedish Sea territory
between 55.18 nnd 55.26 north latitude and12.42 nnd 13 eastern longitude. Aa
soon ns further communications aro directed directions to shipping will ba
published."
CANADA ASKED TO VOTE $250,000,000 WAR CREDIT
, OTTAWA, Ont., Feb. 16. Sanction for an additional war appropriation of
$250,000,000 and other measures for raising money for tho needs of tha Domin
ion's military forces will be nsked by the' Canadian Government at tho present
session of Parliament. These financial necessities were announced beforo tha
House of Commons by Sir Thomas White, Minister of Finance, In, his annua
budget speech. Opposition Is precluded Cy the promise of the Liberals to
accept all Government war measures. A new war tax measure, which In all
probability will brlpg In additional revenue of about $25,000,000 or $30,000,000,
was proposed by Sir Thomas. Tha measure would tax apples, oils, the profits
of munitions factories and all Incorporated companies carrying on business In
Canada.
KING GEORGE TO GRANT AUDIENCE TO COL. HOUSE
LONDON, Feb. 16. Colonel E. M. House Is to have an audience with Kine
George at Buckingham Palace. President Wilson's envoy has received an
Invitation from tha King's secretary and will make tho visit on Friday of this
week. Tho colonel visited the King last summer after he had been in Berlin.
Mr. Wilson's confidant has been active this week In secret talks with Cabinet
officials and other prominent Britons, but he Is as mum as usual regarding this,
LLOYD-GEORGE'S CRITIC FORCED TO RETRACT
LONDON. Feb. 16. Thomas Gibson Bowles In bis Bpeech Monday attack.
Ing the Government's alleged lukewarm blockade riolicy, referred to David
Lloyd-George, the Minister of Munitions, by saying; "Mr. Lloyd-George, perorates
about silver bullets for the enemy and provides golden billets for his friends."
Mr. Lloyd-George wrote to Mr, Bowles, asking him: "Will you be good enough
to provide me with a list of tho friends I have provided golden billets for? As
your remarks will probably have wide publicity, I should like to havo your
answer at once." Mr. Bowles replied by withdrawing his remarks, as he said
they were liable to be misconstrued.
FRANCE TO SPEND $15,736,000 A DAY FOR WAR
PARIS, Feb. 16. An appropriation of 7,817.000.000 francs $t.S63,40O,0W) tor
the second quarter of 1916 is provided-in a bill introduced In the Chambar ut
Deputies today by Mr. Alexandre Rlbot. Minister of Finance. Of the amount
all except 657,000,000 francs ($131,400,000) la for military purposes. According
to tha figures, France expects to spend dally for war purpoa during April,
May and Juno a Bum. of money which in normal time would b iuikni
$16,739,000, It is estimated that is the last quarter of ISU the expeaoUturua uj
tha Fraca Government probably were in excasa st tJ3,H49 day,
NEWS
jfa-.,HEto -.It--g
