VOL. 52 NO. 40
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., WEDNESDAY, FEB. 16, 1916
PRICE TWO CENTS
V
I!
n f 17 fjt m tssm raa ' m ran
H f V I till f t ii II HH till II 110
:1.M HUE MO
v f f P H p If CT 1 11 P
yiiiEk 11 uityiu
Administration Facing Defeat of Bond Issues Now
. Plans To Put Burden
Bridgeport On Remington Company, And To
Meet School Expenses By Direct Tax Rate
of 25 Mills Now Believed Inevitable.
That the tax rate for 1916 will be. at least 25 mills, that the
new school buildings will be cared for out of a 2 mill additional
tax rate anticipating the defeat
that an additional tax of at least one mill wilj be levied to lay
needed sewers is the opinion
Two members of the tax board
bond issues. They will see to it
taxation for many needed improvements: ' - '
, l The board already has cut $80,000 from; the street and side
walks committee's estimate of $150,000 for water bound maca
dam streets. It has been said that it wasecessary to lay water
boxmd macadam before Warrenite can, be; laid and the adminis
tration fiirures on a $500,000
merit. x If the bond issue is rejected by the people the tax' board
"will bq reconvened and asked
paving. -, ;" ' ; ' : ; '- ' ' . . "
The membes of the sub-committee on sewers have rejected
the requisitions of the sewers
$115,000 to pay for sewers constructed in East Bridgeport by the
Jftemihgton Arms and Ammunition Go. They have also reject
ed proposed requisitions for paving in streets which are being!
developed Uy the company.on
IDEHTT0.PASS
acgeptafjge mm
UOTEOU THEUISI
. ' " Ll ;
, Washington, Feb. 16 Count Von Bernstorff, the German
ambassador, today presented to Secretary Lansing the latest
draft of the Lusitania agreement, embodying the changes sug
gested by Berlin! indications- wera-that the Agreement; in
its present form ;probably would be acceptable to the United
States.;. . ' :-:r - . '
' When Count Von Bernstorff came
from Mr. rinsing's office after a visit
of less than 1 minutes, The. said: .
"Gentlemen, I refer you to -the secre
tary of state."
i Almost at the same timeMr. Lans
ing sent out this message:
- L?'I have nothing to say." ". v
Couat ,Von Bernstorff presented for
mally the draft of the agreement and
- it Is -understood was informed it could
not be accepted as final until it- had
been submitted to President Wilson.
The Indications were, ' it seemed, sat
isfactory to Secretary Lansing.
. As now-drawn and formally signed
by the German ambassador, the agree
ment ia in reply to the -.last American
WEDDED LIFE
OFflRS. ICEPPY
AIRED IN COURT
Hearing Today Brings Out
- Events In History of
Disputants. ,
Judge Carl Foster! representing the
rieirs who are trying to break the will
of the late Ella Keppy of Stratford,
made several references to the marital
troubles of Mrs. Florence - Walters
Keppy when he .argued ' his case be
fore Judge Gager and a jury in the
superior court this morning. He men
tioned "the fact that Florence, the
daughter who had been given a deed
to most of the property previous to
her mother's death,. had been married
twice, was separated from her second
husband and was now living in the
tame apartment with a man named
Vernon, to whom she referred on the
witness stand as her cousin. Judge
Foster declared Florence has unduly
Influenced her mother to cut off her
Bister Maude and her brother Jesse.
Attorney John J, Cullinan." counsel
for Mrs. Walters, argued. against
breaking the will. He decided that
counsel for Maude Wheeler and Jesse
ICeppy had not shown any undue in
fluence and that the bulk: of testi
mony proved Mrs. Keppy was in her
right mind when she made the will
in which she cut off her daughter
Maude with .
Testerday afternoon Attorney Culli
nan made a motion to have the court
direct the Jury to find in favor of Mrs.
Walters. Judge Gager denied the mo
tion. At press hour the jury had not
returned & verdict.
LIAR YE RESIGNS
AS AMBASSADOR,
PETROGRAD SAYS
Petrograd, - Feb. 16 -George T.
liarye, the American ambassador, has
resigned, giving ill health as his rea
son. He has not been advised of the
acceptance of his resignation by the
&ate department,
of Development of East
of the proposed bond issue and
in administration circles today
are utterly , against the proposed
that provision is made by direct
bond issue for Warrenite pave
to levy an .additional tax for
committee for approximately
ine n,ast oioe
WEST' -
note. It begins with reference to the
formal assurances given . by Germany
last September that submarines would
not sink ' unresisting " liners without
warning and regard for the safety of
life aboard and that the instructions
to submarine commanders were so de
finite as to allow of no misunderstand
ing.. - , o " .- , ""
It then . states that the submarine
warfare around the British Isles was
a reprisal for what is characteried
as the "inhumane" blockade of Great
Britain to starve the central powers
and then promises indemnity for
Americans lost on the. Lusitania and
expressed "profound rgret" for their
deaths. ' .
(Continued on Page 2. .
jJITNEUR IN MANY
ACCIDENTS, MAY
F0RFEII1ICENSE
City -Court Officials Endeav
to To Have Lacksmith t
Barred From Driving.
Because he has been in four auto
mobile accidents and because in the
opinion of the city court officials he
is not competent to operate a motor
vehicle, efforts will be made by these
officials to have the operator's and
owner's license of Steven Lacksmith
of 197 Spruce street, revoked by the
secretary of state.
Lacksmith is the owner and driv
er of a jitney car and last evening he
encountered his fourth accident since
last October when he struck and
knocked down Howard Simond of 493
Housatonlc avenue, age 12 years, at
Noble and East Washington avenues.
The boy was not seriously injured and
was taken to his home' in Lacksmith's
car. The latter was later arrested.
In city court today it was made
known that Feb. 9 Lacksmith while
running his machine in an alleged
careless manner at State street exten
sion and Organ' street, collided witn a
limousine and seriously damaging the
latter. The owner is said to be well
to-do and he agreed not to prosecute
Lacksmith- but -advised that the-lat
ter be given a warning.
A short ilme ago Lacksmith's ma
chine collided with a peddler's wagon
at East Main street and Crescent ave
nue. He paid $3 .damages to . the
owner of the wagon and was not pros
ecuted. Early last October his machine
struck a horse and wagon at Park
avenue and State street, overturning
the latter and throwing the occupants
into the roadway. He failed to stop
the machine to inquire into the nature
orVgxtent of their injuries received.
In city court he was fined $25 and
costs for this offense.
After an investigation, the police
lsay Lacksmith is rather careless and
Via i-n thA hakit t ttiioilm h!n
about without giving proper warning
to automobilists following Tiim. This
morning Judge Bartlett ordered the
case continued until two weeks from
today and in the meantime an ef
fort will be made to have the secre
tary of state revoke both licenses of
Lacksmith. lie was released upon his
own recognizance.
Jy
BIG UNION FOR
REMINGTON CO.
TO BE FORMED
Munitions Plant Machinists
Plan One of Largest Lo
cals In Country.
MEMBERSHIP OF
5,000 IS PREDICTED
Labor Defense Fund Passes
$2,000 Mark, Business
- Agent Announces. 5
Bridgeport will have ' -one of the
largest machinists locals in the coun
try' before the end of this coming:
summer, according to George , J.
Bowen, business agent of Local No. 30,
International Association of Machin
ists. -.
"The new local of the Remington
Arms plants .will have a membership
of more than 5,000 within six months,"
said Mr. Bowen today. "'It- was ex
pected that the separation of the
Remington employes from Local No.
SO would be accomplished last' month.
but Organizer Davis, who was to come
here to take charge of the work, has
been tied up in conferences "with the
Baltimore & Ohio Railroad. '..
Organizers Benway and Davis will
be here within a few days and the first
step will be to take about half our
membership for the nfew local. That
will give it a Ftart with more than
1,000 members, but as soon as activi
ties begin in the spring the member
ship will be greatly increased.
A meeting hall will be procured
and during the summer organization
will be completed."
The Machinists' Labor ' Defense
fund, which will be put to work in the
spring in the canjpaigivfor the: eight
hour day and.-the .cent-aminute drive
for wages, has passed the $2,000 mark,
and is rapidly reaching. $2,500. It is
expected to be in excess of $5,000 dur
ing the summer.,. , - -i , ; -
-Conditions in this city are very en
couraging, according to Mr. Bowen,
In the. Remington factory, the iie-
sinkerst the. forge workers and other
departments are 100. per cent, organ
ized for union purposes.
That the Singer Manufacturing Co.
lost its best men . yesterday morning
when a dozen .gauge- testers were dis
charged because they asked an in
crease, is -the belief of Agent Bowen.
"Individually, these men have ask
ed for raises during the ,t, .last , few
weeks, and one- by one, they were re
fused. They combined, yesterday and.
asked 63 cents an - hour, hoping to get
at least 60, and their-foreman, after
a vcpnf erence with Go jrge M." Eames
notmeo tnem that they were discharg
ed: - , '
. "All of them iave jobs now, at bet
ter salaries. 1 - , .
Six toolmakers left the TJ. M. C. Co.
shop yesterday when an anti-union
agitator was rehired. According to gos
sip in labor circles, a person who has
been insulting union .men- went too far
last week and he was knocked down
by a union man. Both were discharg
ed, i The disturber, was again put to
work yesterday and aa a reult, six
left their jobs.
Agent Bowen, said nearly all of them
have jobs, and the others will have no
difficulty getting them. )--,'
BRANDEIS CASE
WILL BE FOUGHT
OUT BYJJWYERS
Legal Counsel For Both
! Sides Authorized By Sen
7 ate Committee.
Washington, Feb. 16 The Senate
committee investigating the nomina
tion of Louis O. Brandeis,- of Boston.
to the supreme court bench, today en
gaged Austen G. Fox,, of. New York,
as counsel for those Opposed . to Mr.
Brandeis, and G. W. Anderson, United
States Attorney at Boston, as coun
sel for Mr. Brandeis : and his sup
porters. , . -
In a protracted executive session,
the committee decided that the Inves
tigation had broadened out to such
proportions that counsel were requir
ed for the interests of both sides.
Mr. Anderson's .participation, it was
announced, does not ponflict with his
position as Uninted States district at
torney at Boston, and he Berves before
the committee without pay.
After the executive session, - Senator
Fletcher, acting chairman, announced
that Austen G. Fox, a New York at
torney, had come to Washington in
the employment of persons, opposed to
the confirmation of Mr. Brandeis and
would arrange the presentation of the
testimony so as to . save the time . of
the committee. The committee was
willing to have that done and it was
arranged that G. W. Anderson, United
States Attorney at Boston, would act
for the committee to see that Bran
deis' side was developed.. He said it
was understood both lawyers would
serve without compensation from the
committee or government and that
Mr. Fox would file a list of -the per
sons employing him.
Both attorneys accepted . on that
basis, which gives both sides counsel.
Mr. Anderson said he wanted to ex
plain that he did not appear for Mr.
Brandeis or his friends but for the
committee and that he had some per
sonal knowledge of the case, particu
larly so because he had been: United
States Attorney at Boston.
liENHY JAMES "VERY ILL.
London. Feb. 16 The illness of Hen
ry James, the author, is so serious that
even a temporary improvement in his
condition is not expected, although
it cannot be said to be Immediately
critical.
MJTire skips ore
n nn
Most Disastrous Conflagration In History of City
Wipes Out Scores of Business Blocks and
Large Apartment Hotel Tenement District
Threatened and , Hundreds Flee In Night
clothes To Street Many Cities Send Aid To
Help Fight Big Blaze.
Fall River, Mass., Feb. 16 Estimates made by riwners of
property and proprietors of stores in the section of the business
district swept by fire early today indicated that the total loss
would be approximately $2,000,000. A score of buildings, in
cluding an apartment hotel arid several of the largest retail
Lstores in the city, were destroyed and many others were badly
damaged.. There was no loss of life and although there were
many narrow escapes, no one was injured. ! "
A determined stand made by the firemen in the rear of a
long line of burning buildings kept the flames from spreading
to a congested district of wooden tenement houses backing up
on the burned area. Residents of these houses, frightened at the
prospect that their homes would be lost in the rush of. fire, fled
to the snow-covered streets with little clothing.
Police and firemen early in the day
were unable to put forward any theory
as to the. probable origin of the fire.
It started in -the basement of the four
story brick building at - the corner of
South Main and Spring streets,' occu
pied by the department store of the
Steiger Co. . The night watchman in
this store, Michael O'Rourke, said that
when; he made his last round shortly
before midnight he saw no sign of
fire. A few minutes later when he
was' on an, upper floor he' heard a
sound like a slight explosion.
He hurried downstairs and found
the basement filled with smoke. He
attempted to telephone fire headquar
ters but unable to get a. connection he
rushed to the street. By the time
he reached a fire box someone else
had seen flames coming from the
building and had turned in an alarm.
When the fire apparatus arrived,
the Steiger building was all ablaze.
Within a few minutes the fire had
spread to adjoining buildings on the
west side, of South Jbjain. street . ana
had Julnped across the street and ob
tained great headway In buildings on
the east side. Help was then called
from New Bedford, Taunton and New
port, R- I. .
Before the' out-of-town engines had
arrived, the flames had made such a
start fhat it was impossible to stop
their progress southward along South
Main street until they had reached
the corner of Columbia street. Here
the Edward building, with a double
fire wall served as an effec-trve check
and by : flooding the building and ad
joining property with water, the fire
men got the upper hand of th con
flagration.
At the north end of the burning
district, a water curtain I on the de
partment store of R. A. McWhirr &
Co., prevented a further spread. The
granite walls of St. Mary's Cathedral
protected the residential distriot near
by. '
The Lenox hotel, across the street
from the Cathedral was one of the
first buildings to suffer. The guests
were hastily, aroused and made their
way out by fire-escapes and doors in
the rear. . The front of the hotel was
then in flames.
Numerous explosions in the paint-
fshop. of P. P. Morris, on- Spring street.
helped to spread the' names. unis
building adjoined the . Cathedral. '
The heaviest individual loss was eur-
RUSSIANS TAKE
EZERUM; TRENCH
WARFARE RAGES
Petrograd Reports That
Czar's Forces Have Cap
tured Important Town.
Londont Feb. 16 Reuter's Petro
grad correspondent telegraphs that
Ezerum has been captured by the
Russians. .
BRITISH IN ATTACKS.
Berlin, Feb. 1 6 Three attacks by
the British in efforts to recover the
trenches southeast of the Ypres, in
Belgium, which they lost Ho the Ger
mans, are announced today by army
headquarters. All the attacks were
declared to-have been fruitless as were
those of the French in attempts to re
gain ground lost northwest of Tahure
in the Champagne.
ALLIES STAND BY PACT.
Havre, Feb. 16 The allied powers
signatory to the treaty guaranteeing
the independence and neutrality oi
Belgium have decided to renew their
agreement not to end hostilities until
the political and economic independ
ence of Belgium is re-establisned ana
the nation is indemnified for the dam
ages suffered.
BIG STORM HITS ENGLAND.
'London, Feb. 16 Great. damage has
been done all over the country as
the result of a -50 mile gale. Tele
phone, telegraph and electric wires
nd poles were blown down, farm
buildings and bridges wrecked and
railroad signal j stations demolished.
Wrecks of coasting vessels are report
ed and cross channel traffic is delayed.
fered by the Steiger Co. Members Of
the firm estimated it at $500,000 on
building and stock. The cloak and
suit store of Cherry & Webb, in .the
Flint building, was another heavy
loser. . . Other buildings destroyed on
the west side of South Main street
were the Cobb, Bates & Yerxa' grocery
store, the Campbell building contain
ing , a five and ten cent store, offices
and lodge rooms and the tobacco store
and the Sullivan building, containing
an undertaking establishment and
large 'stock of caskets.
On .the east side of South Main
street the Are wiped out the Holland
Machinery shop, the Lavino Fruit
Store, the Egan -building, containing
the J. C. Brady Drug Store and tene
meats; the New York Clothing House,
the Hotel Lenox, Reed's barber shop,
Robert Murphy's restaurant and Da
vid Wolk's variety store.
The Lewis building, containing I
wine store and offices, was badly dam
aged, '
The n P. MorrI paint shop and 71.
Bailie's 'clothing store on Spring street
also, were destroyed.
: Throughout the progress of the
fire, drug stores. restaurants , and
churches were thrown open for the
relief of firemen and police and peo
ple driven from their homes. Coffee
and sandwiches were distributed. The
guests at the Lenox Hotel were given
shelter in private residences. The fire
was ,the most disastrous in the his
tory of the city:
In 1844 flames swept the entire
length of Main street but the property
damage did not approach that of to
day's conflagration. The majority of
the structures . burned today were con
structed of brick, three or four stor
ies in height. 1 v
ONE DEAD, ONE MISSING,
IN FIRE IN MICHIGAN
Midland, Mich., Feb. 16 One per
son was burned to death, another Is
said to 'be missing and damage esti
mated at $150,000 was caused by a fire
which destroyed a block of Midland's
business distric ttoday.
Miss Delia Taylor, a milliner, es
caped from her rooming place but
later attempted to save some of her
belongings and perished. It is rumor
ed that a man who rushed into the
building and tried to rescue her also
lost his life. '
.10VIE SOLDIER,
SHOT, SEEKING
COMPENSATION
Charged "Arabs" on Burn
ing Desert, Fayerweath
er's Island in November.
Shot in the eye as he charged the
Arab camp in the moving picture pro
duction of "The Light That Failed,"
Antonio Carlo of Stratford, is asking
workmen's compensation of the Ed-
uard Jose Co. of New York city, a
moving picture concern that made a
film of . Rudyard Kipling's famous
story. The film was made on the
sand of Fayerweather's Island "-several
months ago. This was supposed to
represent the burning desert but as a
matter of fact the' month was Novem
ber and the thermometer was flirting
with zero. Camels and costumes
from Barnum & Bailey's circus were
used. v j
Carlos waa one of the BritiBh sol
diers who was supposed to charge
the Arab camp. He made the charge
all right but he alleges the horse he
was riding was not accustomed to the
discharge of firearms and becamS un
manageable. In the melee that fol
lowed one of the Arabs fired so close
to him that the wad of a blank cart
ridge struck him in the left eye.
Carlo has been under treatment by
Dr. Daniel C. DeWolfe for three
weeks and in his petition to the com
pensation commissioner he alleges he
must receive such expert medical at
tention for .three weeks -more. Carlo
asks for the limit in compensation. $10
per week for 32 0 weeks, claiming that
the loss of his eye will be perman
ent. The schooner Goldie Bell of St.
John's, N. - P., was wrecked on the
British coast, oft the Lizard. The crew
was saved.
j J
Two Big Steamers, Said To Be Laden With War
Supplies For Russia, and 900 Foot Pier Are
Destroyed In Brooklyn Fire One Dead, Two
pissing As Supposed Incendiary Fire Sweeps
American Club In Toronto Where Pro-Ally
Celebration Was Staged.
New York, Feb. 16 The steamships Bolton Castle and Pa-,
cific and a 90a foot pier belonging to the New York -Dock Com
pany at the foot of Pioneer street, Brooklyn, were destroyed:
early today by the most disastrous fire on the Brooklyn water
front in years. " ' .'
Another steamer, the Pallazia, was damaged, about 25 scows
and lighters were partly or wholly burned, and two coolies from
the Bolton Castle 'and Pacific wej?e missing. The loss is esti
mated at considerably more than $i,000,0&.
, The origin of the fire is unknown but suspicions that it was
incendiary were aroused because of the fact that some of the !
l-steamers were loaded with war
intended for shipment to the Russian government and to be de
livereil at Vladisvostok.
A watchman aboard the Bolton
Castle discovered that the buildings
on the pier were on fire about 1
o'clock this morning. The blaze spread
so rapidly that the officers and crews
of the steamers and lighters lying at
the pier, after a vain effort to prevent
the spread of the flames to their ves
sels were compelled either ' to . leap
overboard or to seek safety aboard
other lighters or tugs which hastened
to the rescue. The three steamers ly
ing at the pier were surrounded by a
fleet of about 50 lighters and barges
on ea-ch of which was one man or
more. On some of the barges were
the wives and families of he cap
tains. ' Some of -them were compelled
to jump overboard to escape the swift
onrush of the flames.
Firemen and policemen dragged
many of them out of the water to
adjoining piers and others were' res
cued by tugboats or fireboats. It was
not known : early today whether all
had escaped death.
Captain Benjamin Smith, of the
Boltcjbi Castle .and six of his crew
made' their-escape from the burning
vessel h.y crawling- hand over hand
on a rope to a barge. Mrs. Smith fell
into the 'water but was , rescued by
sailors. . All the rescued persons were
given shelter on a nearby pier. -
When the first company of firemen
reached the scene the pier was blazing
so furiously that they , could not gain
access to it. The Pallazia was towed
Into thei stream, a hundred yards, or
more off the dock but it was impos
sible to move the other two steam
ships. Fireboats saved the Pallazia
but could make no progress against
the flames on the other two vessels.
The Bolton Castle was loaded with
AMERICAN GL
IFiTOBONTO
HEN PLOT S
Toronto, .Feb. 16- One man was
killed and two others were injured in
a fire which early today wrecked the
six-story structure which was the
home of the American cjud. several
explosions were heard wniie tne . nre
was burning, but, according to latest
information received by the police.
there were no detonations before the
fire, of unknown origin, was discov
ered. ' v ,
inarl-v renorts. as yet unconnrmea.
were that the blaze was the result of
ah eien military plot, tne American
club having recently been the scene of
demonstrations in favor of the entente
allies.
A man believed to nave oeen r.- ir,
Hurston, of Dallas, Tex., was found
suffocated just insi a window on the
third floor. Edward jonnston, mBin
watchman of the Mechanics' bank,
next . door, was dangerously injured
when he was struck by a chimney
LAKE COMPANY
NOT LOW BIDDER
FOR SUBMARINES
Washington, Feb. 16 Bids for two
new ocean-going submarines opened
at the navy department today showed
the Electric Boat Co. as the lowest
bidder at $1,491,000 each. The Lake
Co. bid $1,689,000.
Congress' has appropriated $1,500,'
000 for each submersible.
At the local offices of the Lake Co.
it was said that no definite informa
tion had been received. Fred Browne
Whitney and H. M.. S. Robinson, offi
cers of the Lake Co., are stil in Wash
ington.' LUTHERAN COUNCIL MEETS.
New Britain, Feb. 16 TweiVy-
Shree delegates are in attendance at
he semi-annual meeting of the New
England Pastoral Council of the At
lantic district of the Missouri Synod
conference of German ' Lutheran
churches in this city which opened
last night and will be concluded tomorrow.
41 li mWm An
1
m Li Li L-2i
munitions,-some of -which was
gasoline for Russia and this fed the :
blaze. The boilers of the Bolton Cas- i
tie and the Pacific blew, up when the -fire
was at its height, completing the
work of destruction.
Several barges loaded with gasoline,,
lying near the steamers were destroy
ed. " .
Fireboats prevented a spread of the-:
fire to adjoining piers, and before day-
light had it under control. , "',
The Bolton Castlei a British vessel
of 3,689 tons, arrived here on Feb. 6 f
from Singapore, Port Natal and St.
Lucia. The Pacific, of 2,612 tons, ar
rived from Hull, Eng., yesterday. Both
belong to the Castle Line. The burn
ed pier was leased to Barber & Com
pany, stesCmship agents, and is be
lieved to have been filled with mer-.
chandise, including war munitions.
PROBE FIRE ABOARD
BRITISH VESSEL HERE
Philadelphia, Feb. 16 Investigation
is being made today by city authori
ties, . ofllcials of the . Earn Si eamshli)
Co. and the British consulate, to de
termine whether the fire which dam
aged the sugar cargo of the British
steamship Dalton at a wharf fc3re lis
night was of incendiary origin. The
loss is placed at $100,000. The fact
tha the fire started in two sections of
the hold is regarded as suspicious.
Officials of the steamship company ,
point out tr.t the fire was the sixth :
to occur on Brit-,h steamers loaded :
with sugar within the last month.
The Dalton's cargo was destined for
West Hartelpool, England, for the
British government.
which' fell into the street.
The interior of the .building was
destroyed and the roof fell in. The
walls are intact. The property loss
was placed at $50,000. , 7
' Capt. Asa Minard, of the American
Legion, was so badly injured that- he
may nqt recover. He was sleeping on
the top floor when he was aroused
by the first explosion. He had slid:
halfway down a rope fastened to the
window sill when a second explosion
forced him to let go his hold and drop
to the sidewalk.
Several other officers of the Ameri-
can Legion were asleep in the build
ing when the lire broke out but it is
believed that all managed to escape
by the rear doors and windows. Two
employes of the club were slightly
burned.
.- The club building was formerly oc
cupied by the Union Bank. It was re- i
m6delled when - the American club
was organized four years ago.
It CONVENTION
THROTTLES B00L5
FOR ELIHU ROOT
New York, Feb. 16 The committee,
on resolutions of the Republican state
convention decided by unanimous vote
today to endorse the administration oft
Governor Whitman but to attach- the
endorsement to a separate blank deal- ;
ing with state issues.
It became known while the com-,
mittee on resolutions was in session
that endorsement of Former Senator
Elihu Root for the presidency was
proposed and that it became the sub
ject of long argument.
Mr. Root's name was proposed by
John A. Slelcher and Henry L. Stim
son supported Sleicher's motion in a
vigorous, plea in which he argued that
Mr. Root was the logical candidate.
The matter was the subject of debate
for more than half an hour after
which a vote was taken and the pro
posal defeated.
THE WEATHER
Fair tonls'ht and Thursday.
