1
Jti jC-
ST. JOHNSBURY, VERMONT, WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1916.
VOL. LXXTX, NO. 23 WHOLE NO. 41C0
COMMENCED AUGUST 8, J37
Ttie Berry-Ball Dry Goods Co.
The Kuq Thar
rV me
int. hhkk of oi m i f y
Sidewalk Test
Stand j
i t;"X" Z; i
We Are Showing a Full
.
Line of Ladies' and Girls'
Skating Sets in AH Colors
Prices, $1.00, 1.50 and 2.00
Ladles' and Gents' Snowshocs,
Prices, $3.00 to 6.00
Moccasins,
Prices, $1.50 to 3.75
Thursday, Friday and Saturday
SPECIALS :
1 Lot Boys' Wool Sweaters, Oxford Collar,
Regular price $1.25 . Special 98c
1 Lot Men's Sweaters, with Collars and Pockets,
Regular price $5.00 Special Price $3.98
The Berry-Ball Dry Goods Co.
Paaaai
MATERNAL MEETINGS
" LodoTC. No. 27. F. A A. M.
Regular -manicatlon Thursday even
ing. Februav, I,
v Fred C. Bbck, W. M.
David R. Colb, Secretary.
Harwell Royal Area Chapter. No. 11.
Stated Cod rocation Friday evening. Feb.
rnary 18.
Raymond A. Pbabl, E. H.P.
Fred G. Moors, Secretary.
Paleatlae Commiidtrr, No. 5. K. T.
Stated Conclave Tuesday evening, March
14.
Elwik A. Silsbt, Em. Commander.
Biel D. Evans, Recorder.
The Hoicnn of Natural Science.
Open week days 912 A. M , 1-r P. M.
Sundays 2.30 to 6 P. M.
All visitors welcomed.
St. Johnabary Athenaeum.
LIBRARY READING ROOM ART GALLERY
9 o'clock to 9 "o'clock each week day, Wed
nesday evenings excepted.
3 o'clock to 5 o'clock Sundays.
AH are invited.
Mow Do You Like St?
Some folks consider an Insurance Agent a nuisance. They allow
if they want any Insurance, they can o after it, but they seldom do this.
I write all kinds of Insurance and am glad to do it, but I do not
personally solicit business from any one. Should be glad to have you
call at my office, where I can show you more intelligently, just what
I can do for you, or will call on you upon request, either by Phone,
74-1, or by card. I claim to have the very best of all kinds and
cheaper than many companies.
CI1AS. S. HASTINGS, Agent
Over the Old Post Office for Last 38 Years
St Johnsbury, Vermont
LOCAL NOTICES
(Notices will be inserted in this
column in reading matter type at the
rate of ten cents a line for the first
insertion and five cents a line for sub
sequent insertions of the same copy.)
The ladies of the Universalist church
will serve a ,clam chowder supper j,n
-he vestry Thursday evening. Early
table at 5:30.
The Ladies Aid of Grace M. E.
Church will serve a Chicken Pie Sup
per in the dining room of their new
church, Washington's birthday, Feb.
22 from 5:30 to 7:30 o'clock. Admis
sion 35 cents.
Friday, March 10th, Academy Ath
letic Association benefit, Edward H.
Frye, monologist, of Auburndale,
Mass., Academy Glee Clubs and Or
chestra. Reserve this date.
Supper and Entertainment.
The Searchlight Club will serve , a
supper in the South Church, Friday
at 6 o'clock for 35c. Menu: Cold
Roast Pork (tenderloin). Sweet Pota
to Croquettes, Cider Apple Sauce, Hot
Rolls, Coffee, Doughnuts and Pies..
After supper a pleasing entertainment
will be given consisting of music and
a series of pictures representing "The
Bachelor's Reverie."
The turkey dinner at the North
church planned for Feb. 11 has been
postponed until Feb.. 25. -
Farms and houses for sale. C. E.
KIRK.
Goodrich Special Sack Suits $27.50.
Made in St. Johnsbury. .
.Vuto Renewal Outfit First Coater,
Finishing Coater. Brass Polish, Cush
; Ion and Top Dressing. Aluminum
Paint, Lamp Enamel. Two Varnishing
! Brushes, Aluminum Paint " Brush,
i Package of Steel Wool, Two Sheets
Sandpaper. $4.00. THE PECK COM
PANY. 21 Eastern Ava".
HOUSEHOLD SCALE for the house
wife to check up her purchases. Ca
pacity. 10 lbs. Made to sell for $4.00.
We sell them while they last for $2.50.
THE PECK COMPANY, 21 Eastern
Ave.1
Fairbanks Coffee, sold by A. H.
G Feason, 73 Main street.
If you are weaL, Href and all
run down, get a bottle or searies
Hypophosphites, it will make you
feel like a new person. Regular
$1.00 size only 79c.
If you need a monument or any
lettering done In cemetery write or
call 534 M. J. E. Walker.
William Dennie, piano tuner. All
orders left at McLean's Music Store
for piano and organ tuning will re
ceive careful and proper attention.
A BANK,
Like the Individual, Must Live
and Be Known By Its
Reputation
We endeavor to be favorably known by :
Careful Management insuring Safely of Principal.
Liberal Dividends to Depositors 4 compounded semi
annually, f 1
Prtmpt and Courteous attention to business, whether by
mail or at our window.
And to do our part to assist the small Depositor to a start
towards habits of thrift.
To this end we receive deposits of $1.00 and upwards:
Passumpsic Savings Bank
St. Johnsbury t Vermont
PROHIBITION RALLY TONIGHT
Ex-Got. Patterson and Dr. Swadener
To Speak at the Colonial.
One of the big rallies of the pro
hibition campaign will be held at the
Colonial this evening, when Ex-Gov.
Patterson of Tennessee and Dr. Madi
son Swadener of Indiana will be the
speakers.
The Burlington Free Press says of
the meeting addressed by Ex-Gov.
Patterson and Dr. Swadener at Bur
lington that It was the opening big
gun of the campaign for a dry Ver
mont. , As enthusiasm has increased with
every shot that has been fired, in the
meetings in St. Johnsbury we look for
a large audience and the most enthus
iastic meeting that has thus far been
held.
It is an exceptional opportunity to
hear two men who. have seen both
sides of the question and Ex-Gov.
Patterson while not a reformed drunk
ard as has' been stated by some. Is a
man who worked hard for local option
feeling that it was the best way to
control the liquor business. Come
and let him tell you in his own words
why he has changed his mind.
Another Noted Speaker Coming.
Thursday evening Feb. 24, the Hon.
Oliver Wayne Stewart of Chicago ac
companied by a soloist and
U. C. T JUNSTRELS
Great Crowds Witnessed Three Ex
hibitions Of Fun And Fire
- w At The Colonial
Friends of the St. Johnsbury Coun
cil, U. C. T.. filled the Colonial thea
tre Friday evening, Saturday afternoon
and evening for the three perform
ances of their second annual minstrel
show, and were well repaid by a show
par excellence. The chorus was stun
ning to look at and did work that de
served greatest credit. It supported
the funniest end-men on record, whose
antics from first to last were side
splitters and were well showed off by
the interlocutor, Fred C. Gilson. The
solo and quartet work were greatly
enjoyed and encored. Especial men
tion should be made of the solo by Os
car Proulx, "Come On Down," tlu"
was rendered so appealingly to a fair
"lady" in the audience. The 'lady"
afforded the audience a good share of
pleasure with her unfortunate at
tempts to find a seat "where she (?)
could, be left in peace to see the show
The first part ended by a rousing
chorus "America, I Love You," with
"Columbia" posed by Mrs. A. D. Wil
comb and Allan Hunter as "Uncle
Sam."
The second part of the entertain
ment was a thrilling scene from life
in the village of Bingville. S. C. Cur
rier as Si Scroggins. the owner of the
"Oprry House" and seemingly owner
of the town, is in the act of securing
a city vaudeville company to give a
show. The caste arrive and rehearse
much to the delight of Si. In fact
they showed themselves to be a first
class crowd. The Viotrola quartet was
admirable. The performance by M.utt
and Jeff (Porter and Jenks) 'followed
and portrayed their life in the Sunday
supplements but was certainly a great
improvement over the real thing and
brought down the house. Then came
a dance by "Society's Buds and
Blades" to a' pretty duet by Miss
Maude E. Follensby and Warren L.
Peck. It was a scene of gracefulness
and color and delight. After the re
hearsal the cast were taken for a
sleigh ride and while gone the fire
alarm rings for a fire discovered In the
"Oprry House." Si has to run home
to don his fireman's regimentals but
at length the town Is gathered to fight
the fire and see the fun. A scrap
among the firemen leaves the fire to
extinguish itself, which it does to' the
destruction of the building. "No Opr
ry -House, no" Insurance, no show" U
the moan of .the Inconsolable Scroggins
and the end of the act. The act was
written by Frank O. French and de
served the highest praise for being one
continuous laugh from start to finish.
The chorus appeared again at the
end to sing adieu to the audience Wl
were loath to see the last of the merry
minstrels. The greatest praise should
go to Frank O. French for his untir
ing work and endless originality; alsc
to the TJ. C. T. for their ability to put
on such an excellent and snappy show.
DISTURBED A DANCE
Two Railroad Men Paid A Fine tn
Municipal Court for Breach
of the Peace.
Ray Coleman of Newport and Har
old Blake of Wheelock, brakemen on
the Boston and Maine attended a
dance in Lyndonville the other eve
ning and were In a very talkative con
dition. They made themselves so dis
agreeable that they were brought be
fore Judge Frye of the Municipal
Court and each paid a fine of $5 and
costs of $7.95.
Joseph M. Legendre is in trouble
again. Monday night Officers Finley,
Pnhnm and Garfield made him a
neighborly call and .although they
failed to find any intoxicating liquor
in his place they did find 32 empty
bottles and he will be asked to explain
to the court how he happened to be
doing so large a business in bottles of
that nature.
Michael Donahue plead guilty to a
charge of irttoxi cation before Judge
Frye Monday and his case was con
tinued for sentence.
The judge was in Lyndonville again
Monday afternoon and Percy Borden
and Oscar Tornblon each paid a fine
of $5 and costs of $7.95 for .intoxica
tion1. Don D. Gray paid the same fine
and costs of $6.50 for a first offense
of intoxication.
21 DIVORCER GRANTED
County Court Adjourned Friday
After One Of Longest Terms In
History Much Business Done
Last Friday afternoon Caledonia
County court adjourned its December
term after being in session 56 days, the
jurors drawing pay for 52 days, with
one exception the longest time they
have ever drawn pay at a single .term
in this court. A large amount of bus
iness was also done at the session. The
Hatch trial was a long one, a large
number of civil cases heard by the
jury and the closing days given to
hearing divorce cases, a total of 21
divorces being granted for the term
In addition to this nine divorce cases
were discontinued and 34 are con
tinued for a later hearing. The jury
heard 11 civil cases and six state
cases.
The divorces'- granted during the
term and their causes were as follows:
Jennie A. Aldrich from Daniel R.
Afdrich for .intolerable severity; Con
stance Bacon from Perley Bacon for
intolerable severity, custody of minor
child given Mrs. Bacon; Pearl May
Greenwood from Leon Smith Green
wood for intolerable severity and re
fusal to support, custody of minor
child given Mrs. Greenwood; Bertha
E. Humphrey from Wayne Humphrey
for refusal to support, custody of two
minor children given Mrs. Humphrey;
Gertrude R. Meader from Guy E.
Meader for intolerable severity, cus
tody of minor children given Mrs.
Meader; Louis C. McLachlin from Eli-'
zabeth I. McLachlin for adultery; May
Belle Mahoney from John H. Mahon
ey for wilful desertion, custody of
minor child given Mrs. Mahoney; Al
bert Heyer from Mary Hazel Heyer for
wilful desertion; Luella M Lamphere
from Frank M. Lamphere for intoler
able severity and refusal to support,
custody of minor child given to Mrs.
Lamphere; Edna Crawford from Nor
man Crawford for intolerable severity,
custody of minor child given Mrs.
Crawford; Gladys D. Smith from Hugo
D. Smith for desertion, custody of
minor child given Mrs. Smith; Lillian
H. Burringtcn from Harry J. Burring
ton for wilful desertion, each given
the custody of a minor child; Welling
ton Woodward from Ida B. Woodward (
ror desertion; jviinoia tu. Anen irum
Burt H. Arlen for intolerable severity,
custody of adopted child given to Mrs.
Arlen; Warren H. .Fairbanks . rrom
Lona M. Fairbanks for wilful .deser
tion, custody ot minor child, given t'
Mrs. Fairbanks; Georgiana B. Brooks
from Thomas J. Brooks for refusal to
support, she given right to resume her
maiden name of Georgiana McDonald;
Carrie McCaffery from Joseph Mc
Caffery for intolerable severity; Esther
Sortwell from Jason L. Sortwell for
adultery; Jessie F. Coates from Her
bert A. Coates for intolerable severity
custody of minor child giver Mrs.
Coates; Sarah Cox from W. I. Cox for
intolerable severity, custody of minor
child given Mrs. Cox.
Program of Features Feb. 16 to 23
WEDNESDAY
"Blindness of Devotion" Featuring Robert Mantell (Pox)
"South American Travels"
v THURSDAY
"The Harvest" Featuring An All Star Cast
. "George Ade Fable" A Ctfmedy of Refinement
FRIDAY
"Secret Sin" Featuring Blanche Sweet (Paramount)
Paramount News and Fashions.
SATURDAY
Rags" Featuring Mary Pickford (Paramount)
'Ventures of Marguerite" Featuring Marguerite Courtot
MONDAY
"The Yankee Girl" Featuring Blanche Ring (Paramount,)
"The Girl and The Game" Featuring Helen Holmes.
TUESDAY
"Island of Regeneration" Featuring Edith Story (V.L.S.E.)
THE GLOBE THEATRE
(
o new
SPOKE FOR PROHIBITION
Dr. Wilson 'Says The Maine Law is
Full of Holes and Jokers.
The temperance rally at the Colo
nial last Wednesday evening was fair,
ly well attended and addressed by Dr.
Clarence True Wilson, who said his
home was in Portland, Ore., his office
in TopekaKan., and that he lived on
the trains.' He was certainly very
much at home with his subject and
presented a strong argument for state
wide prohibition, basing his belief in
the advantages of this move by the
success Kansas has had in its pro
hibitory law. In the state of Oregon,
which has just voted for state wide
prohibition, even the great advocate
of local option, the Portland Oregon
Ian, admitted that the new - law was
working out splendidly, with little
drunkenness and few crimes as com
pared with a lot ofboth under local
option. He ridiculed the so-called
prohibitory law of the state of Maine
and said it had more provisions in It
for getting liquor than for prohibiting
its sale.. He said the Maine law was
not the kind of prohibition law that
was now in force in the other prohi
bition states and that it was full of
leaks'and jokers. In closing he urged
all the voters present to support the
proposed Perry law and carry Ver
mont for state wide prohibition on
March 7. Judge Walter P. Smith pre
sided at the rally and good music was
furnished by the Methodist male quar
tet. KIRBY
(Mrs. W. P. Russell, Correspondent.)
'The Ladles Aid society will give a
poverty social and supper at the
church Friday evening.
Mrs. Fred Houghton is working at
Lyndonville in the printing office for
a few weeks.
There was no service at the church
Sunday on account of the storm.
County Farmers' Association.
Last week, Monday, Agent L. A.
Wood was in Groton where 22 farmers
bought 15 tons of chemical fertilizers.
n. -i -n-. . a j rr 1 . . 1 . . V. '
iuesaay, weanesuay anu inuioua; lie, , .
pianist was at work at his office on a mailing ror mc ucal iwu mumus juu
STATE BANKERS COMING
Mid-Winter Meeting To Be Held Here
Next Tuesday W. G. Nash To
Speak.
The mid-winter meeting of the State
Bankers association will be held in
St. Johnsbury next Tuesday, Wash
ington's birthday. The afternoon ses
sion will be held at the Museum class
room. Judge Walter P. Smith will
give the address of welcome and the
speaker will be Willis G. Nash, vice
president of the Irving National bank
of New York city. In the evening
there will be a banquet at the Avenue'
house and Rev. Paul Dwight Moody
will be toastmaster. It is expected that
the state bank commissioner, Frank
C. Williams, of Newport, will be pres
ent also representative bankers from
.ll over the state.
WATERFORD
(Mrs. A. M. Sunbury. Correspondent.)
The final spelling contest will be
held at Lower, Waterford Friday.
Mr. and Mrs. E. C. Johnson were in
Littleton Saturday.
The Ladies will serve supper in the
vestry Tuesday evening, Feb. 22, in
honor of Washington's birthday.
The sick are all reported better.
WINTER IS THE TIME FOR
Sore Throat
ALSO TO USE
Tho American Throat Tablet
The Ideal Remedy for Sore Throat or Cough
Remember to Use
Tho American Liver Tablets
The Perfect Laxative
They Made The Quarter Famous
You Need It. Every Hour
Moore's Coal
will conduct a stirring miiv in St.. list of farmers. He also worked with
Johnsbury. place of meeting to be an- I v- Sanderswho is in charge of crop
nounced later. reporting work in Maine. New Hamp-
Mr. Stewart was one of the leading shire. Vermont and Massachusetts. for
speakers with the National Flying the United States department of agri
Iquadron that toured the continent culture, especially with reference to
about two vmts am in tha intarcct. "orchard work. This week he is work-
of temperance.
Ing with T. H. Moran who is at the
head of the cow testing associations
in Vermont, in Ryegate and Peacham
A meeting will oe neia at reacnam
"The Mission of the Master."
Krnrth rhnr,.), o,. . Thursday evening. The agent has had
which the public are cordially Invited. a much larSer number of-office callers
The painting entitled "The Master." than usual since the ann"aI meeting,
which embodies the life-long stiirUes He iss at his office every Saturday,
and conceptions of the veteran paint- ,t ,
er. Darius Cobb, will be exhibited, and CVon",M?sTthiJ.S CutRouf &.uZ.
Mr. Cobb himself, now 80 years of enclose with 5c and mail it to Foley &
age, will tell the story of its painting Co., Chicago, 111., writing your name
nv r 7? wni rs-otWl,., w, tim and address clearly. You will receive
Rev. C. F. Hill Crathern, who resign- in return a trjai package containing
ed the pastorate o an important Foley's Honey and Tar Compound, for
church In Worcester for the purpose la&rippe cousrhs, colds and croup; Fo
of accompanying this, picture about l&Vkm&ltZ. blTdderoubl
fhe country, will. give an address upon and Foley Cathartic Tablets, a whole
"Ohrist in Art." This service has at- some and thoroughly cleansing cathar
tracted wide attention and warm ap- JXS'S
proval all over the country. i HAM.
wilL need plenty of Coal.
Let us have your orders as
many days ahead as possible.
ft f l . . ! 'J r
T i . . 1 II' L"r
20 Year Guarantee Aluminum Double Boiler
SPECIAL FOR THIS WEEK
11-2 Quart. - - - Sl.l
2 Quart, - - . - 1.39
You must see our line of Aluminum ware to , appreciate our
Large Stock
Sani-Flush
Cleans your closet bowl without
any fuss or trouble
25c per Can
Walk In and Look Around'
The C. H. Goss Company
